THE BARRE DAI Li7" TIME
S
VOL. XX NO. 88.
11ARRE.- VERMONT, TUESDAY, JUNE 27, 1016.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
GIVEN 48 HOURS
TO MAKE REPLY
TO U. S. NOTE
PROGRESSIVES VOTE
TO ENDORSE HUGHES
FOR PRES1DEN
If Carranza Has Not Released Ameri
can Prisoners And Given Diplomatic
Statement of His Purposes by Thurs- t
dav President Wilson Will Present
. the Matter to Congress
WORK OF MOBILIZATION
IS BEING DRIVEN HARD
Mexican Officials in Washington Pro
fess to Believe That Carranza Will
Release' the -American Soldiers But
Effort to Substitute Name of Victor
Murdock for Theodore Roosevelt's
Failed By Big Margin
Hushes Gratified.
Chicago, June 27. By a vote of 31 to
13 the Progressive national committee
late yesterday went on record as being
opposed to putting third ticket in the
field. -The committee voted down a mo
tion to substitute the name of Victor
Murdock- of Kansas to fill the vacancy
caused by the declination of Theodore
Roosevelt to head the Progressive ticket
The Progressive national committee
last night voted to endorse Charles E
was
tug to vote on
the ground that the committee exceeded
its powers in taking such action.
Hughes Welcomes Support
New York. June 27. Charles E
Hughes, Republican nominee for presi
dent, sent a telegram to 0. K. Davis, sec
retary of the Progressive national com
mittee, l6t night welcoming the support
of the Progressive party and arraigning
the present administration for its "weak
ness and incertitude.
In making public the contents of the
telegram Mr. Hughes also gave out & let
ter he had written to Col. Theodore
Roosevelt in which he declared that the
nation was indebted to the colonel "for
the quickening of the national spirit and
for the demand for an out and out 100
per cent Americanism."
The candidate told Col. Roosevelt that
he had "sound"! forth the trumpet that
shall never call retreat and I want you,
to feel that I wish to have all the aid you
are able and willing to give." The letter
closed with an expression of a wish by
Mx I rtfipvinfiAn I nmoc fr tho Vsfo tf Mr. Hughes to see the colonel soon
i'NU XJUlUniimuuil VJV.'liiV0 Liiv lait The telegran
Department
The telegram to Secretary Davis wvs
in response to a telegram from the sec
retary notifying Mr. Hughes that the
Progressives had endorsed him.
WILL SUPPORT HUGHES.
VVasnmgtOn, U. dune Li. mere were tieai uiuiyaiiuuo wi Record Warrants It
uay ismi 11 Ute fliuell vavaiyHtci.toiui hkvaiiw "v 'Sacramento. Cal.. June 27.- Governor
Carrizal. were not released within 48 hours action would be taken Johnson, the Progressive party leader,
. . - . - I i a- J.... i ...:n a
h$ the United States. The impression prevailed in official, circles Zum:
that the president would not wait beyond Thursday at the latest warrants it.
and possibly not beyond to-morrow afternoon for a definite reply
fn ik Carranza to the note demanding the immediate release of the
prisoners and a declaration of intentions. Special Agent Rodgers Roosevelt Accepts Hughes' invitation for
rc ported in an overnight message that he had delivered the note
to the Mexican foreign office
35,000 TO TROOPS
GETAWAY START
IN EAST SOUTH
National Guardsmen from The Vermont Redment Got
12 States of the Depart- Away To-day from State
ment of the East Are Ei
ther on the .Way Already
or Are Under Orders to
Leave Bef or Night Mas
sachusetts Leads,
Campground, Expected
Departure . Last Night
Having Been Delayed by
Lack of Coaches for Ac
commodation of the Men
BOY KILLED BY AUTO.
VERMONT WAS NOT
FAR BEHIND THEM
DESTINATION MAY
BE EAGLE PASS
Gen. Wood, Commanding the Cavalry Detachment Was
Department of the East, Is Left Behind and Recruits
Hurrying the Department
of the Militia in Response
to Urgent Demands of the
War Department for Men
to Relieve Regulars
Not Fully Equipped Will
Remain in Vermont Under
Command of Captain Hy
land of Rutland
New York, June 27 Nearly 35,000 Na
tional Guardsmen front twelve Mated in
the department of the east are under or
ders to start to-day' or. are. already un
der way for the Alt-Mean boruur. Three
Massachusetts regiments, one from Ver
mont,' and two field batteries '-from New
The Vermont troops, which have been
in camp near Fort Kthah Allen aince Fri
day, after receiving the president's order
on Monday, June 19, to mobilize, passed
through Montpelier Junction this after
noon, .cu route for the Mexican border.
The failure to get away last night, as ex
pected, was due, it is said, to the lack
of cars for the men. The destination of
George Shackett, Aged 12, Victim in Bur
lington.
- Burlington, June 27.--George Shackett,
a 12-year old boy, died yesterday after
noon a,, few momenta after he had ar
rived at the Mary Fletcher hospital, from
injuries received when he was run over
bv an automobile owned and driven by
J. Lindley Hall. According; to testi
mony given bv those who witnessed the
accident, Mr. Hall could not avoid hitting
the child, who ran into the path of the
machine.
The accident occurred in front of the
home of the boy on Colchester avenue, at
the foot of the hospital hill. Young
Shackett was playing with a stick at tint
side of tiha road and jumped out for ic
after he had thrown it into the road. The
machine was not coins at a rapid rate
of speed, being one of several in line
coming towards the city, and wa
brought to a-stop almost instantly. The
child was taken from the road in an un
conscious condition and rushed to the
hospital. He died soon afterwards from
internal injuries.
The boy waa an only son of Mrs. Frank
Porier of 132 Colchester avenue, living
there with his mother and step-father,
The funeral arrangements were not made
last evening.
ORDER RATES
TO BE REVISED
By Railroads from the East
to the Pacific Coast
by September 1 .:
CLAIM COMPETITION
. SPOILED BY WAR
PREPARING TO PAY MILITIA.
Jersey have started, and the indication th Vermont National GuaTd is not deft-
Wedneaday Evening.
New York, June 27. Roosevelt has ac
eepted an invitation to dine with Hushes
While the diplomatic aspects awaited Carranza's acton, the war at the Republican presidential nominee's
nere at t -.su ociock to-morrow
it, was learned to-dav.
the national guards along tne Dorcter. it 13 certain tnat no aggres
sive military operation will be undertaken until a substantial num- ANOTHER SECTION
oer 01 troops are avaiiaoie 10 Dac up me regulars, wno wouia un
questionably lead the movement. The president's first step, should
he decide to force the issue, would be to lay the whole situation
bt fore a joint session of Congress.
Mexican officials here express the opinion that Carranza will re
least the prisoners, whatever he may reply to the demand for a
diplomatic expression of his purposes; but the state departm2.1t
hns no official report to confirm this.
: :
The House voted to-day, 119 to 5,, dis
agreeing to the Senate amendment to
the Hay militia drafting resolution, elim
inating $1,000,000 relief appropriation for
the 'dependent families of enlisted
guardsmen in the federal military serv
ice. A conference was asked. .
VILLA SUPPORTERS
JOIN CARRANZA 1
AND PLEDGE AID
here was any
Possibility of War with United States
Has Apparently Healed the Breach
for the Time-Being.
El Paso, Tex., June 27. Evidence that
the possibility of war with, the United
States has healed the breach between
Villa and Carranza factions increased to
day when over 100 wealthy Mexicans,
who formerly supported Villa, crossed
into Mexico and were apparently received
in good favor by the de facto authorities.
Handbills printed in Spanish, asserting
that Villa has pledged to support the de
facto government in case of a break with
the United States, are being circulated
in Juarez and the Mexican quarter of El
Paso.
CONDEMNS "PERFIDY"
OF UNITED STATES
Foreign Minister Aguilar of .Mexico
Makes Appeal to Latin-American Coun
tries and Says the Washington
Action Affects All of Them.
Mexico City, June 27. Foreign Minis
ter Aguilar made public to-day messages
t the l.at in-American countries accusing
the United States of perfidy and concen
trating troops along the'border with hos
tile purHes toward Mexico. He asserts
that Mexico loves peace and does not
want war, but if forced to fight will go
to the last extreme, the message con
cludes bv stating that the Americans'
perfidy affects all the Latin countries on
this continent.
they might be up against, it, but that in
any event there was only one thing to
do. and .that .was to obey orders.".
Gibson's story as given out by Gen.
Irevino continues:
"Capt. Morey joined us at Santo Do
mingo. ' That night four Mexicans came
into camp and told us that the Carranza
troops at Carrizal had four machine guns.
It was said that these Mexicans had
warned Capt. Bovd he had btter turn
back, but I don't know if tli
truth in this talk.
"Two miles south of Carrizal we were
lined up by Capt. Boyd and told we
might - have to fight or' we might get
through peacefully, but there was only
one way to carry out orders and that
was to obey them. This as the first
time we had ever started anywhere with
out knowing where we were going.
"When the fighting started we wpre in
an open plain, and the Mexicans had the
advantage of ditches and brush.
'Returning from his conference with
the Mexican leader, Capt. Boyd gave bis
horse to his striker, and ordered us to
advance in skirmish order and to hold
our nre until we were hred upon.
"Fifteen of our men dropped on the
first volley. We fought hard until we
were about surrounded. Then we dropped
our guns and ran. Wo thought we w;ould
try to get to EI Paso. We were over
taken at Los Humos.
"We were brought tnek to Villa Ah
muda, but were well treated."-
WONT EMBARRASS BRYAN.
BOYD EXPECTED TROUBLE.
Told His Men They Might Get Through
and Might Not
Chihuahua City. Mexico, June 27.
Five of the six additional negroes made
prisoners at Carriul and brought here
are named John Wilson, George M. Chap
lin, I. Uopkms. Ihomas (rjrhd.l and
W. D. Gibson.
Gibson, speaking for his comrade, said
they were captured at Los Humos. many
miles from the ene of the fight by pur
suing caTalry. He said the six of them
er "trying to beat it for Fl Paso."
Gen. Trevino announced that Gibson
told hira that the members of the ex
pedition were lined tip by Capt. Boyd
to mile out of tkrnzal'and told that
tby rc. fit jret through peftul!y orl
By Trying to Hold Peace Conference if
Wilson is Not Willing.
Lake City, Minn., June 27. William
Jennings Bryan, speaking in regard to
the proposed El Paso peace conference.
said that while he was anxious to do
what he could and while hoping to sec
the matter settled with force of arms lit
would attempt nothing in the present
situation unless 1 resilient N llson is
sympathetic toward the action
taken. He thought it inopportune to talk
about the conference on the situation
OF TRENCHES RE-
TAKEN BY FRENCH
Success Won at Thiaumont and Battle
for Possession of Village of Fleury
Still Continues Allies' Aero
planes Bombard German
Ships.
Paris, June 27. The French recap
tured another section of trenches ' at
Thiaumont in the Verdun sector, accord
ing to the official statement, and the
struggle for the village of Fleury is still
progressing.
Allied aeroplanes have dropped 65
shells on German ships near the Belgian
coast.
The official communication issued by
the war office last night reads:
"In Champagne our artillery shattered
enemy organizations north of Ville silr
Tourbe.
"On the front north of Verdun there
was no infantry action during the bourse
of the day. The bombardment dimin
ished in intensity on both banks of the
Mouse. Nevertheless,, in the region of
hill 304 a very spirited artillery action
was maintained.
"In the Voices the fire of our batteries
on the German positions east of Chape
lotte caused the explosion of two muni
tion depots.
Belgian communication A somewhat
intense artillery action occurred in the
sector southeast of Nieuport and wlso in
the direction of Dixmude and Steen-
straete. There was bomb fighting in the
region of Stoenstraete.' "
are that 20,000 from -New York, lVnnsvl
vania, New Jersey arid Connecticut will
get awav before night.
In addition, troops from Maine, Nw
Hampshire, Delaware, Maryland, the dis
trict of Columbia, Virginia and Florida,
totaling 15,000, received order to leave
to-day for the border.
TROOPS SANG AS THEY LEFT.
Massachusetts Soldiers Wer as "Merry
as They Could Be.
Frsmingham, Mass.; June 27. The 0th
infantry regiment, the first of the Mas
sachusetts militia t start for the Mex
ican border, left here at 11:10 lust night
tor Ll Paso, lex.
nitely known, but it is thought to lf
Eagle Pass, Texas, which is just north of
I-ar"do and opposite Fuonte, on the Rio
Grande river. They will probably arrive
there on the last day of the week.
The supply train was the first to go
through the junction, having left Essex
Junction at 12:30 this afternoon. That
was followed at intervals of about Ii
minutes by the trains bearing the sol
diers. Th first squadron of the First eavslry
remained at the state ramp ground under
command of Major Wallace Batchelder,
who takes the place of Lieut.-Col. Fred
B, Thomas of Montpelier, who goes with
thVtnfantry and sanitary eorps. Each
companv of the regiment, had TO men,
and the soldiers not fully armed and
Congress Takes Up Legislation Looking
' to That End.
Washington, D. C, June 27 Estimates
to cover the pay and maintenance ex
pense of the state troops, totaling $88..
000,000 up to January 1, were laid be
fore Congress yesterday afternoon. With
them went figures of $13,000,000 for the
purchase of horses and mules for army
use. the total estimates ol the quar
termaster-general alone pass the $100,'
000,000 mark.
The House passed the annual army ap
propriation bill after adding $26,000,000
for emergency purposes during the brief
debate that preceded the vote. An ur
gent deficiency bill carrying $26,000,000
tor National Guard pav, equipment and
transportation was framed in committee
for presentation to the House to-day.
In the Senate the national Guard draft
resolution was passed with amendments
which will necessitate its return to th'i
house and possibly a conference before
its final approval. Army officials await
with impatience the authority it grants
to consolidate incomplete units of the
National Guard. They estimate that
when the regiments reach the border un
der the new orders, some companies will
lie promptly depleted by the men discov-1
ered to be physically unfit on final ex
amination. Jf thev can combine these
incomplete units for immediate service
Interstate Commerce Com
mission Declared 4
Order
Washington, D. C. 27-floIdinr
that water compet! "jetween the At
lantic and the r.-", coasts has been-
completely destroyed under war condi
tions, the interstate commerce commis
sion to-day ordered the transcontinental
railroads to revise their rates from the
East to the Pacific by Sept. I, so that
they shall not be. lower than the rates to
intermediate points. v
VERMONT MAN KILLED
IN AUTO CRASH
W. Henrv Lester Was Hurled n wi
Head When Motor Vehicle Struck
Side of Iron Bridge Near :
Middlebury. '
Rutland, June 27. W. Henry Lester,
well known farmer who lived on tha
Pittsford road north of this citv. died
t 11 o'clock last night as the result of
injuries received at 11:30 o'clock veeter-
ay morning when an automobile in
which he was riding struck the side of
n iron bridge four miles south of Mid
dlebury. His skull was fractured at the
top of the head, his left arm and collar
broken and his body badly
,i u .... iK-iiit, "tic ,. ... , i.ff t h, .fate eanin.
on Our Way to Mexico," as the first of ' nd under command of Caolain B. S
the three sections of the train pulled out
of the rail road, yards. The big crowd,
which had come earlier in the evening to
bid the soldiers godspeed, had dwindled
to a score or two. '
Brig. Gen. E. Leroy Sweetser, com
mander of the Bay state troops, and his
stall, were aboard the first section.
The trains went out over the Boston 4
Hyland of Rutland. The remainder of
the recruits will be sent on as they are
ready for service.
The regiment was inspected by Col.
John L. Chsmberlain vesterdav after
noon, and his report of the efficiency of
the regiment is said to have been faVor
able. The transportation of camp equip'
ment to the train was started bv mid-
hone were
bruised.
He was rushed to the Rutland hosnitsl
and add new companies as recruits are j the auto ambulance of A. J. Blackmer
sent smi tli, there will be little delay in of Middlelmrv.
getting all available men into active The automobile, a Hudson, was owned
''rvip- ' nd driven by J. W. Richards of this
President Wilson expressed to callers city, son-in-law of Mr. Lester, and ine
to-day his appreciation of the announce-1 part v were Mrs. Lester and Mrs. Rich-
ment of business houses throughout the s?aS, The machine was being driven
country that their employes would be down the curve approach to the bridge
permitted to serve with the National at a ranid nte and struck the first iron
Guard without loss of salaries or posi- girder on the side, snapping it in two.
turns. Several employers have sent such and raking the whole side of the bridge.
announcements direct to the White Mr, Lester was thrown from the resr
House and the
thanking- them.
president has written
ABERDEEN MAN DEAD.
Albany railroad, and are due to arrive at Lftcrnoon and was continued we'll into
EI Paso, Tex., Saturday evening.
As soon as the infantry had departed.
the hospital and ambulance corps, which
had been waiting at the roadside near
the railroad yards, moved up to entrain.
s PREPARING FOE MILITIA
the night. The men slept on their blank
ets last night. '
A crowd estimated at 15,000 visited the
bors in camp yesterday afternoon, and
the troops were given a most cordial
send-off, in which there was a 'mixture
of sadness. .
APATHY OVER TRIAL.
Public is Taking Little Interest in Case
ment Case.
Ixmdon, June 27. The second day of
the trial of Roger Casement opened with
no change in the apathetic attitude with
which the general public regards the case.
Casement seems to take the proceeding
in a casual manner and has the air ot
being rather bored, except when chat
ting with the guards.
Early witnesses to-dav related practi
cally.the same testimony as at the pre
liminary hearing. A cross examination
of police witnesses brought out the fact
that, the people in the south of Ireland
had been arming themselves against
; I-IH III iiuuti, nil iiinv nirr i,uili
' ' I II . . .V ...
erners leiw mey i-ouifi not imsi m sol
diers to protect them against the Ulster
volunteers.
NO CHANGE SAYS LANSING
After Brief Session of the Cabinet on
Mexican Situation.
Washington. D. C, June 27. A discus
sion of the Mexican situation occupied a
brief session of the cabinet to-day. Secre
tary Lansing later announcing there was
no change in the situation.
TO HAVE TWO PARISHES.
Rer.
Clarence R. Skinner Goine to Proc-
toriTille and Cavendish.
St. Albans. June 27. Rer. Clareme R.
Skinner, professor of applied br;tian
lty at Crane Theological srhml. Mr df.rd.
Mass., has been evurfd as summer pas
tor by the combined Unhcrsali't parishes
of Proctorsnile and Cevendith. Th rv
will be h'ld in the t jxt.'i'-'i rhunh.
which i one of the old it lnnT-al,st
churches in Vermont.
OFFENSIVE DEVELOPING?
Germans Note Great Activity in Middle
of Western Front.
Berlin. June 27. There is marked ac
tivity along the Franco-Belgian front,
held by the British and the northern
mng ot tne rremn army, numerous
gas clouds are used by the entente forces.
The artillery fire on the German lines i
especially intense in the iiinity of the
Somme. the war office announi-ed to dav.
EI Paso People Expect 20,000 Before End
of the Week. .
El Paso, Tex.., June 27. Hurried prep
arations for the reception of thousands
of National Guardsmen are under way in
r.l 1'aso. Military authorities expressed
the opinion that approxiinate.lv 20,000
guardsmen will arrive here before the
end of the week and with .the 3.U00 reg
ular troops now stationed here, will
make El 1'aso the largest militarv con
centration camp in the. United States.
With the entire National Guard of Mas
sachusetts, New Jersey and Connecticut,
approximately lo.lKMt men, under ordurs
to. entrain for El Paw, General George
Bell, jr.. commanding the local militia
district, said he was making preparations
for the housing and rationing of 25,000,
so lie would be prepared to care for any
additional troops sent him.
It is planned that about 5,OiMI of the
state troops now on their way here will
be stationed at Fort Blisg on the out
skirts of the town, while camp sites were
laid within the corporate limits of the
city for the remaining 5,000. General
Bell said that water mains had been laid,
sewer connections made and the ground
levelled, leaving nothing for the guards
men to do upon their arrival but to set
up their canvas. ....
CUPID WAS PRESENT.
ATHLETES JOIN COLORS.
GERMANS CLAIM SUCCESS.
Declare They Stormed Positions Sooth-
west of SokuL i
Berlin. June 27. -R'rian -position
southwe't of Sokul were stormed h
reneral Von Ltnsinfn and held againt
counter attark. acorlmg to t war
statement. Several hundred R-isr
were raptured.
Yale Men Recruited to Go to the Mexi
can Border. . ,
New Haven, tonn., June- 2". Recruit
ing among' Vale undergraduates and
graduates for the battaliot.: of artillery
hgan yesterday in earnest.
Several promimnt athletes w ere among
the number who reached New Haven
from their homes in different parts of the
country, r. S. Push, a junior and first
baseman on the Vale nine, enlisted ves
terdav and will report for active service
shortly. Wat rous, the baseball pitcher,
was another to enlist. Harrv Legre. the
foothall star and captain of the Vale
baseball team, reached New Haven and
said he will probably onliH within a few
days for active service. Walden. the big
football guard, was on duty yesterday
for the first time.
Two V. N. G. Sergeants Were Married
Last Evening.
Rutland, June 27. Two soldiers of the
Vermont National Guard were married
last evening, they being Sergeant Alfred
Catozzi of Rutland and Sergeant Charles
H. Caswell of Essex Junction. The for
mer's bride was Miss Ruth Lucilda Per
son, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Daniel
Person of Rutland, snd the latter's was
Miss Kathryn M. Gordon of Essex Junc
tion. Sergeant Catozzi and Miss Person were
married amid unique surroundings on the
state campground. The couple stood at
the entrance to Capt. H land's tent, with
a semi-circle of their relatives, the offi
cers and men of Companr A back of
them, while the place was lighted by the
headlights of several automobiles. Pri
vste Person of Company A and Miss
Florenre Butler stood up with the couple
and Miss Butler and her father, Judge
F. M. Butler of the Vermont superior
court, attached their names as witnesses
to the marriage certificate. The knot
tied, the memlicrs of Company A gave
three cheers for the pretty brunette bride
nd the enicient sergant. Rev. W. A. Da
vison, secretary of the Vermont Baptist
state convention, was the officiating cler
gyman. The young people had been en
gaged for some time.
The marriage of Sergeant Caswell and
Miss Gordon totik place under more quiet
circumstances, the knot being tied at the
First church parsonage in this city by
Rev. C. C. Adams. They, too. had been
engaged for some time, and the hurried
orders for the departure of the Vermont
troops caused their plans to be acre I
crated.
James J. McKenzie, Aged 40, Was Weil
Known in Barre.
James J. McKenzie passed away nt
the home of Mrs. Marv A. Smith, 36 Ma
ple avenue, yesterday. Mr. McKenzie
was a native of Aberdeen, Scotland, and
a granitecutter by trade. He was 40;
years old, his natal day being May 10,
1876. lie came to the United States in
1905 and for several vears he was in the
seat, striking on his head and shoulders.
Mrs. Lester, who was also thrown from
the car, fainted from the shok, but was
not seriously nurt. ' I he others received
slight bruises. The right front wheel
of the car was taken off and the mud
guard, running board and the whole side
of the machine crushed.
WOMAN GIVEN FREEDOM.
After Pleading Guilty to Having Nar
cotics in Her Possession.
Burlington, June 27. Mrs. Florence
Flint, who was arrested in Winooski last
employ of C. W. McMillan & Son. He is winter with her husband, Edward Flint,
survived by his father, George McKenzie, Ifor having in her possession illegally a
who lives in Aberdeen, and a brother, I large amount of narcotics, was allowed
who is fighting with the British army in to withdraw her plea of guilty in United
France. Mr. McKenzie was a member of States court yesterday, that plea hav-
Clan Gordon, No. 12, O. S. C, the Rang-ling been entered in the session of th
era' football club and the granitecutters' court at Windsor. She asked that the;
union. He was a former president of St. lease against her be quashed for the rea
Andrew's club. Ison that the indictment against her doel
Funeral services Will be held at the not state any oK'ense against the laws ot
house Wednesday afternoon at 2 o'clock, the United States. She was allowed her
Rev. Edgar Crossland, pastor of the First liberty and furnished a ticket to her
Presbyterian church, officiating. Jnter-ihome in Albany, A. 1., where she has
ment will be made in Hope cemetery.
PRISONER CUT THROAT.
ALLOWED ONE-HALF PAY
And Their Old Tlaces Wnen They Return
from the War. '
St. John.bury. .Turn 27. E. T. Fair
banks & to. yesterday notified its em
ployes that all who had bom in its em
ploy the past year and who had respond
ed to the call to arms v ill Sc all med one
half of their regular tay d'jr'nj tii. im-'
they are aWnt. pro idi i i-u, n a!.- jrr
doe not extend beyond IVc. 31. 1!1K.
All aiirH rmnlnvn flrOTti their v-trm ill
Ville dc Madrid. Carrying ja Passengers,! r,jn.t,iied in the company's em lov.
Managed to Escape. "
MariFi'tVc J-ine 2.. TV, rnrk I
PASSENGER STEAMER FIRED ON.
Charles Tucker of Tunbridge Used Brok
en Lamp Chimney
Rutland, June 27. With his throat cut
almost from ear to ear, Charles Tinker
of Tunbridge, probably mentally unbal
anced, was found lying on the floor of
the jail room at the house of correction
by prisoners and guards attracted there
bv hia cries and screams. The attempt
at suicide had been made with part of a
friends.
In this way Florence Flint, with manv
aliases, gains her freedom. Her case was
one of many peculiarities. When she snd
her husband were taken in this citr they
were in bad shape as a result of the nar
cotic habit. They were kept at the coun
ty jail in this city during the remain
ing winter months and taken to Windsor
to be tried before the United States
court, their condition being much im
proved through treatment here. Tha
woman pleaded guilty and the mat.
pleaded not guilt v, but on trial was"
found guilty. He was sentenced to thf
. , , , . i government prison at Atlanta and tha
oroKrn muip chiiiiiit- aim it umiv tic ' i
hold for sentence and has
reason it was being kept quiet bv the unl" J.-ro" -"'"8 " '
officials of the institution. ten, at indsor.
1 lie xwo were Bcinenccu iv v mufor
ecording to the ruling made by the,
lork, whose rul-
this court hold-
on hand in
amounts was an offense of the law. The
supreme court of the L'nited States, how.
ever, decided that the narcotics must be
kept on hand with intent to sell, in order
to violate the law. Therefore, it would
appear that the two were confined ille-
Th Gebhardt was able to sew up the
: I .. A lw tnr Ti,La. It ant
L.t ti4 f v.i,wwi h- ;. . circuit courts of New
ent in the prison hospital under guard of "K Pov'r" h.i district th
two men. thst havlnK narcotics
Multiplication of Curb Gasoline Pumping
Stations.
The question of the location of gasoline
minint at the eiilen-ftlk curb is becoming
. aerio... nuestion in Burlinirton. and it Pll". the decision of the supreme court
lieiitp irn on me .mr unr ui riuib
was started for Atlanta. Just whs!,
steps w ill be taken regarding him am
not clear.
I st'-aver Fniirnel and the English steamer
v Cardiff bae N--n sunk by a submarine
m the Med.trrraeraa.
steamer Viiie de Msdrsd
The Fren-h
it h ."2 l'iu
Takes Time.
Mr. Flatbh How do jou maba-
t k"p a rook nvg
Mr Bnonhirt Oh. 1 et her to
gt aboard was j ursu'-d anl canrHradd tay until Try hutbanl can rie some
is bound to be in anv city, large or small.
With the multiplication of automobiles
and the tourists, comes the multiplication
of garage and automobile supply stores,
and each and every one of them wants a
convenient gaoline supply station for
the passing autoists.
The tendency in everv city m to elim
inate the obstruction to the sidewalks
snd street. This applies to bitching
posts, merchants' stocks, standard signs.
telegraph, telephone and electric lighting
pole-, and all the ret.
The purcment ot gasoline pumps is
something that should lie carefully and
udi iouly determined in every city so
hat thev do not bei-ome a nuisance. Per-
hp with their multiplication, some oth-
rr device will ne qeveiopeo tn fate the;
rls'e of the pump at the curb. In a way, !
the location of a gasoline pump at the
H. ALEXANDER RE-ELECTED
At President of Barre Branch, G. CL1,
Last Evening.
Officer were elected and routine bus
iness transacted at a meeting of Barr
branch, granite cutters' association, in
the opera bouse last evening. There
weie several hundred members of ths
union in the houe when the officer were
elected. No contests de eloped in the elec
tion and the official slate remain prae-
ticallr the same as b-f.-re the meeting"
The officers, name. I llow, e- elertel
ee of the sewalk i l.ke giving a trier- i f"r the fical r-nod of six month.
chant in anv other line of bu.ne. tl-e !"r"1ent. ll'nry .iexmr: tv.
but ear 4.
meoy t pf ber. otkers Statesman. gr,rsl 'ibl;c Rutland News.
privilege t" display his good, or kcp president, lon lal: corresponding ee.
them tored on tH id-w;k. tt the retary. .t"ph I'. Wil!; financial e-T.
stre time there should be a d'po.-t" ! r"re Smart; trurer. WiHtan
t-j far the automobiht and t-e M I nH : anltor. AWan4er Iron si dt,
rre to anv retsoralile extent, not oxer- i v l'i' ardi an4 .V'rH Mj'": tT-js-
looKing tne oonver-tence or rgut of
f tht . Miii.s-n MsIVna.l. Paul IWaBcU
asl Jsxt G'i
