The Alliance Herald
READ BY EVERY MEMBER NEBRASKA STOCK OROWERS ASSOCIATION. ALL THE NEWS OF ALLIANCE AND WESTERN NEBRASKA
OFFICIAL ORGAN NEBRASKA VOLUNTEER FIREMEN'S ASSOCIATION. IT REACHES HEADQUARTERS FOR 15,000 FIREMEN
The Leading Paper
of Western
Nebraska
3,000 Copies
16 Pages
Two Sections
VOLUME XXIII
ALLIANCE, BOX BUTTE COUNTY, NEBRASKA. THURSDAY, JULY 13, 1916
NUMBKR 32
CBTUTLY KILLED BY
THE LIMITED TRAIN
Robert LiUy, a Settler I J Ting .
Natlck, Htruck by Forty-One . .
Monday Morning
Robert Lilly, aged about twenty
nine years, a homesteader living near
natlck. In Thomas county, -of which
Tmedford ia the county seat, was In
stantly killed at one o'clock Monday
osorning when struck by limited pas
senger train number forty-one at a
point (our miles east ot Natlck.
Engineer George Mllliken, who
was running the train, did not see
Lilly, who waa lying on the track,
nntil the engine waB within a few
hundred feet. He instantly blew the
whistle and Lilly rose to a sitting po
sition and turned around to face the
train. He appeared too dazed to
more and aat there until struck by
the engine, which threw him to one
aide of the track. Mllliken had ap
plied the brakes and stopped the
train. Lilly waa found near the rear
end of the train but was dead when
pieked up. His bead had been
crushed.
No explanation has been offered
for Lilly's presence on the railroad
track and no blame is attached to
the engineer or the railroad company
for the accident. Lilly has a brother
at Natlck and had with him when
killed a small valise. He may hare
been on his way to see his brother
and laid down in the dangerous posi
tion to rest and fallen asleep.
The body was placed in the bag
rage car o fthe train and taken to
Thedford, the county seat, where it
was turned over to the county offi
cials. Rumor has it that the sheriff
of Thomas county had been looking
for Lilly in order to serve papers on
bin.
Death ot John M. Lynch
John M. Lynch, formerly publish
er of the Bridgeport News-Blade,
who sold out some time ago to Bruce
Wilcox of Alliance, the present pub
lisher, died on the morning of July
4th at his home in Bridgeport. Death
was caused by heart failure. Mr.
Lynch came to Bridgeport eight years
ago and consolidated the two news
papers, the News and the Blade, pub
lishing the paper until he sold out to
Mr. Wilcox. He was buried on the
afternoon of July 6. He is survived
by his wife and three daughters.
ftaJTord Likes The Herald
Henry Safford of Scctftsbluff. in re
mitting on his subscription to The
Herald, writes: "I enclose remittance
on my subscription. I enjoy reading
the paper each week."
MAKE PUMPING RECORD
Oity Water Deartnient Pumel 675
OOO Gallon of Water on
Thursday, July 6
The city water department, ou
Thursday, July 6, broke the pump
ing record by pumping 675,000 gal
lons of water. The previous record
K80 000 gallons. The Burling-
ton railroad helped out one day when
there was a serious shortage.
The new storage reservoir, wnicu
will hold 600,000 gallons and more,
will be completed about August 1.
This, with the addition of the new
high-pressure pump, will give the
city equipment second to none and
an ample supply of water for all
times.
1423 SCHOOL CHILDREN
rahool Census, J lift r tuislied l I'nii'.
(,. M. Uurius Miows Gradual
Im-iva-M in Population
The Alliance public school census
for the year 1916. Just finished by
Prof. G. M. Hums, who has done this
work for several years, shows 721
boys and 702 girls of w hool use In
the city, a total of
The census lor i 4e past
years has been .is follows:
626 boys. tS twirls total.
three
1913. I
1,234; 1
1914.708 hoys. r.s gins.
1 4 02" 1 l r. !: tniVB, r. mi in. io
ta!. 1,413: 1916. 721 boyB, 702 girls,
total 1.423.
and f iuiily. Mrs. Maker has the hon
or of catching the largest fish, a 3
pound pike. The boya claim that
Roy Strong ate the most fish, while
we know from personal knowledge
that Jack llawes n.ts told the biggest
fish story. The Herald reporter hap
pened to b. standing near when Jack
told of the number caught each day
it added up into the thousands be
fore Jack got through.
Cmifilit Hundred of Fish
S vera I members of Post M, T. P.
A., wiih their families, spent part of
last week at Henry. Nebr.. fishing
and camping out. Amonc those who
were there were U. M. Maker and
family. George Heilmun and wife. R.
l Sirong and family and Jack llawes
Cooked First Meal In Alliance
G P. Wbaley, ot Colorado Springs,
hrriied Sunday for a visit of two
weeks with his brother J, E. Whaley.
Mr Whaley cooked and served the
nrst meal in Alliance, when the town
of Grand Lake was started where the
fair grounds now stand. He left Al
liance eighteen years atro. Mr ha
v.ri much surprised at the big
I i of bte town in recent years.
OPENS F"., HOMESTEADS
A
' .ere of Land In Montana
ied to Homestead Entry
Under tlovernmeut Laws
Upon the recommendation ot Sec
retary Lane the President has restor
ed to entry 1,892,468 acres of land
in northern and northeastern Mon
tana heretofore Included in coal
withdrawal. A large part of this
area has been entered under the
homestead and other nonralneral land
laws, bue whatever such entries have
been patented since the withdrawals
in 1910, reservation has been made
to the United States of all underlying
coal. All of this area has recently
been classified by the Geological Sur
vey and nonmlneral entryman on
lands classified as noncoal land will
now receive full or unlimited patent.
Areas classified as coal land are
opened to absolute sale and entry un
der the coal land laws. Surface or
agricultural rights may be acquired
as heretofore on these lands, under
the homestead, or deetert land laws
or the Carey Act, the ownership of
the coal in such cases remaining in
the Government.
The Carey Act provides for the
segregation of public lands to a state
for a period of ten years, (which may
be extended to not exceeding fifteen
years) of desert lands therein, upon
the presentation of a feasible plan for
the reclamation through Irrigation of
the land. Upon submission of due
and satisfactory proof of reclamation
of any such segregated land, patent
therefor is granted to the state, which
in turn allows entry by qualified in
dividual entrymen of tracts not ex
ceeding 160 acres, and upon proof of
settlement and of cultivation of at
least one-eighth of the area entered,
patents or deeds the land to entry
men. Nearly two-thirds of the area of
the present restoration, 1,191,131
acres, lies in northeastern Montana
in Sheridan and Valley counties north
of the Fort Peck Indian Reservation.
Of this area 649,360 acres have been
classified as coal land and the re
mainder as noncoal. The coal is llg
nltlc in character and the land is
therefore classified at the minimum
price of $20 per acre where within
15 miles of an operating railroad,
and $10 per acre where outside of
that limit. Several small lignite
mines have been opened In this re
gion to supply local demands, but no
extensive development has been un
dertaken. The lignite of northeast
ern Montana, although a poor fuel in
comparison with lubbltumlaous and
higher grade coal, constitutes an im
portant fuel source and will in time
become of great value.
Another large area included in the
present restoration lies along the in
ternational boundary line north and
east of the Milk River field. Only
3.239 acres of the 682.407 acres in
this field were classified as coal land.
The coal beds are for the most part
thin and the coal is of snbbituminous
grade. A few local mines have been
opened and have proved an Important
source of fuel for homesteaders in
the region, but on account of the lim
ited amount of coal the area will nev
er be important as a coal field.
The restoration of this large area
is another step in tho policy of can
eeling withdrawals as rapidly as the
lands can he examined and classified
oy the Surrey,
Upon the recommendation of Sec
retaries Lane and Houston, the Pres
ident has signed a proclamation ex
cluding about 21,300 acres from the
Teton National Forest. Wyoming.
The public lands therein will be sub
ject to settlement under the home
stead laws in advance of entry at 9
o'clock a. m.. September 1, until and
Including September 28. 1916, and
thereafter to disposition under any
public land law apfdicable thereto.
The . xcluiled lands are in northwest
ern Wyoming In Lincoln county and
are situated on bo'h sides of Snake
Klver In the region known as "Jack
son Hole." For detailed Information
communications should be addressed
to the Keglster and Receiver of the
United States Land Office at Evans
ton, Wyoming.
A MARRYING
JUDGE
, ,, 4u,Kt. I
A. Ilrrrj (onile4el
His 7'nd 'mil' on Mon
la Morning
County Judne L. A. Horry of Alli
ance h:is Justly earned the title of
"the marrying Judpe" wheu he tied
up his 722nd couple on Monday
morning, with Col. Willard M. Evans
and The Herald reporter witnesses.
Col. Evans, who would like to fx;
called Willard Kvans Hughes if it
were possible, on account of his in
tense liking for the Keptiblican pres
idential candidate, ft It quite flattered
by the honor and took with blm the
box which held thi bride's wedding
ring, ns h memento of the occasion.
The couple who were married were
Albert 11. Swii.er, a ted 43. of iGbho,
Wyoming, a traveling coal salesman,
and Mrs. Ella McDonald, nued 35 of
Hut te.-Montana. This was Mr. Swit
zer's third marriage and Mrs. Mc
Donald's second. Doth seeni"d of th"
opinion thi.t It would be their lust.
On Saturday. July Stb. .ludj-e
Berry performed the inarrirt'e rert
mony for Lege Houchins, aged 3 5. of
Alliance, who 13 a cook, and Mis
Mamie pellese, aged 35, of Muskogee.
Oklahoma. Both were colored am!
this was the second time for lloutb
ins. "
On Monday. July 3rd. the Judye
married Chas. B. Coin, aged 46, a
STRIPED SKIRTS ARE
jjj
Copyright.)
painter of Denver, Colorado, to Cora
E. Clark, aged 39, of Cheyenne, Wyo
ming. He was a widower and she
was a widow.
Caught Home Hue Pish
A. O. Isaacson and John Wlker
made a trip the other night out to the
dam west of town, and report that
they secured a fine bunch of fish.
They are planning on another one
soon. Their friends claim that they
hold the record for catching fish In
the lake.
Omaha Man Drowns at Crawford
Crawford, Neb., July 8. D. Mlk
kelson of Omaha was drowned in the
government lake yesterday afternoon.
He and his family had been fishing.
He was on a raft, which capsized.
His wife and two children were on
the shore. His body was recovered
after three hours.
"Uncle" Jack Fuller, aged 72. a
notorious character, living in Craw
ford many years, was found dead in
the grandstand in the City park this
afternoon. He had been sleeping in
Ten Commandments for Your
Home Towm
By ltevi Fred EeaOnan, in the American City
I.
Thou shalt love thy home town above all other towns. Thou
shslt speak no evil of her: thou shalt be loyal to her people, worthy
of the great men and women of her past, confident in her present,
and full of hope for her future.
II.
Thou shalt guard thy home town from the hosts of evil that
would Invade her and destroy her soul. The saloon, the gambling
den. and the house of Iniquity shalt thy crush under thy heel, for
they are enemies of both God and man. Thou shalt keep the good
name of the home town clean and without stain or blemish.
III.
Thou shalt elect as thy public servants in political office men of
strong character, without fear or favor of the boss or the ring, eager
to conserve the best interests of thy people. And when thou hast
elected such men, thou shalt stand by them and support them and
encourage them; for their temptations are many and their burdens
are not light.
IV.
Thou shalt exalt thy public school and honor it all the days of
thy life with the best teachers, building and equipment, for the
school Is the cradle of democracy. Thy children are hers, and thy
shall be the citizens of tomorrow. No training is too good for them
and no preparation superfluous.
V.
Th ou shalt defend the health of thy thy home town from the
death that lurks in marshes, swamps, and heaps of filth. Thou shall
exterminate the fly and likewise the mosquito. The tubercle-bac-cillus
shalt thou drive before thee with the sun and fresh air as thy
allies.
VI.
Thou shalt build good roads and keep them good, for by her
roads Is a village Known for good or ill. Thou shalt not be content
with sand in thy cup holes, but only with oil and stone and tar. Eter
nal watchfulness shall be thy motto, that thy roads may not ravel
nor thy supervisor forget thee.
VII.
Thou shalt keep thy home town beautiful. The hills, the trees,
the waters, that nature has nvtn her thou shall preserve in sacred
trust. No hovel of a man shalt thou permit to disfigure them. Thou
shalt keep thy homes and thy door yards clean and cheerful. Thou
shalt burn the caterpillar ir. his tent. Thy waters shalt thou purify,
that they may bring thee life and strei.gth. The future of thy town
shalt thou plan with care and diligence, that thy growth be not hap
hazard, but full of thought and loving care, as the plans of a mother
tor the growth of her cbtild.
Ml!.
Thou shalt go to churcn. Thou shalt not consider thyself too
wise nor too busy nor too giod to spend an hour or two on Sunday
with thy neighbors in the worship of God. Thou shalt not send thy
children to church, thou shalt bring them there. Thou shalt offer
thyself to the miniser and th officers of the church for the service
of God and thy community.
IX
Thou thalt honor thy home town with a Neighborhood House.
Thou halt meet thy neighbor there on equal footing. Thou shalt
work with them there for the common welfare. Thou shalt play
with them there with all thy heart and strength and mind. Thus
thall thou know tby fellows better and thy friendships shall multi
ply. X.
Thou shalt not take unto tliysi If any graven image of a com
munity secretary. Wlitn thou tindest Ihe man thou desirest. thou
shalt obey him. Thou tdiHlt do as thou art bidden. Thou shalt serve
on committees where thou art put and not intrude on committees
where tliou art not put. Thou shalt encourage thy secretary with
thy service, thy loyalty, and thy friendship. So snail ye win many
battles together.
8
I
i
H
I
POPULAR THIS SUMMER
the park the Inst two weeks. Death
Is bellved to hare been from old age.
Tll'fc ar.rf Wife Tlack from I ol mdn
F. W. TTicks and wife, wth the ba
by, returned Sunday noon from Den
ver. Mr. Hicks had been gone Ave
weeks, attendtn gthe railroad men's
conventlcn there. Mrs. Hicks Joined
ilm a week ago and at the close of
the convention they made a short
trip to Colorado Springs.
Death of Wort ham Baby
Tuesday evening, Cecil, son of C.
R. Wltham, died. Mal-nutrltlon is
given as the cauBe of its death. Rev.
H. J. Young conducted a short funer
al service at the home Wednesday af
ternoon and the remains were taken
to Aurora, Nebr., on 42, Wednesday
night. Rev. Young accompanied Mr.
and Mrs. iWtham to Aurora and then
continued his Journey to Lincoln.
Wednesday noon. Mrs. Katie Peck-
enpaugh arrived from Denver to
spend a few weeks with Mrs. H. E.
Qants and Mrs. Wm. Mitchell.
KISSED TOWN FAREWELL
II. IL Jenkins, Magazine Solicitor.
Ijeaves Town for Good After
Spending Week in Jail
"Panhandle Pete" better known
as 11. 11. Jenkins, the magasine solic
itor, who in his desire for funds to
obtain Btrong drink "panhandled"
everyone in town with whom he
came in contact, on Monday morning
was released from the county Jail and
left on the night train for parts un
known, after relatives had paid the
claims against, htm.
Jenkins came to town a number of
months sgo and leased the famous
Pea Green" rooming house and
turned it into a boarding bduse, af
ter remodeling It and repainting it
another color. Mrs. Jenkins handled
the work and everything went along
fine, but sudden prosperity was too
much for Jenkins, who kept the bar
tenders of the burg busy ladellng out
the red eye to him, with the result
that his train flew the track. While
drunk one night he beat up his wife
shamefully, charging that she was
untrue to him. Mrs. Jenkins was un
able to withstand the abuse and left
him. She has since sued him for di
vorce. The trial will come up on
July 18th.
Jenkins is an expert and experi
enced magasine solicitor but he was
not faithful to his trust, as is shown
by the following letter which was
Bent to the Alliance police on April
2 1st by the manager ot the circula
tion department of the Nebraska
Farm Journal of Omaha: "I feel
obliged to call on your service on the
behalf of your citizens as well as my
self in order that we may all be pro
tected against one H. H. Jenkins, who
makes his headquarters at the
hotel in your city, who has been em-
Dloved by the Nebraska Farm J our
nal for the past month taking sub
scriptions for our papers. However,
we are sorry to say that he is any
thing but honest and I am enclosing a
letter as evidence that be has misrep
resented our proposition to this par
ty. Mr. Jenkins is Indebted
to this company to the extent of $15.
By all means take his let
ter of authority from him ana. nis
press card, receipt books, etc., bo that
there will be no chance oi nis caus
ing anv further trouble."
Attached to the letter from the Ne
Braska Farm Journal was a letter
from a citizen of Bingham who baa
paid Jenkins $1.98 for the magazines,
KOe extra for a set ot crockery and In
addition had loaned him $10.00 to be
nald back "in three weeks."
A number of Alliance people are
out from fifty cents to several dol
lars each, loaned Jenkins in response
in hi ready tongue. 11 wever. ne
fell afoul of the law when he attempt
ed to beat a board bill at a local cafe
and was placed In Jail one day laBt
week.
JenkinB kept the sheriff busy dur
ing his stay in the Jail with requests
for ice water. Ice cream, cigars and
other luxuries. He insisted that the
county Jail was no place for a "gen
tleman" and endeavored to talk his
wav out. without success.
Monday morning the board bill and
costs of he arrest were settled by
relatives and Jenkins was released,
on the condition that he kiss the town
goodbye, which ho proceeded to do
Monday night. If be turns up in Ai
liunce again he will be given his Just
deserts.
Attending: Baltimore Convention
Baltimore, Md.. July 8. More than
1.00 Elks and their families have ar
rived here to attend the convention
of the Grand lodge of the order
which will begin next Monday and
last until the following Saturday. Ho
tel reservations have been made for
nearly 10.000. The two candidates
for grand exnlted ruler. Lloyd H
Maxwell of Chicago and Edward O
Kighter of New Orleans, have es
tablished headquarters and one of
the liveliest contests ever waged for
the chief office is in prospect.
The delegate from Alliance lodge
is Ben J. Sallows, editor or Th- Alli
ance Times, who left a week ago To:
the east.
RAILROAD DELEGATES BACK
l'iicoii nnd Uicko, Delegate, ami il
burn, Visitor, Heturnetl From
Denver Convention
Three Alliance men returned Suti-
d;:y from intending the annual con
vention of the B. L. F. ic E., held for
thirty-three days in Denver, which
closed Friday morning. The meet
ing was an eventful one from start to
finish.
Among the things accomplished at
the convention were the changing ot
headquarters from Peoria, Illinois,
to Cleveland, Ohio; thj change of
the official magazine from ii.omhly
to semi-monthly; and other business
of ihportance
The next convention will be held at
Louisville, Kentucky, in 1919. J. A
Bacon and F. W. ilicks were the Alli
ance delegates and were accompanied
by S. Z. Wllburn as a visitor.
Duiiii't Visit Old 1'riciids
Vcr.ie V, Dundas. who whs . ' . -iier
Alliarce boy tinpU;yed by th
local telephone coiupmy. and w'je
went to Culir'oraia four years aso, i
vu'iing wit'i fneuds litre this wek.
lie is now located at Riverside, Calif.
iigaj-.ed in the electrical branch of
the automobile business, and is doinj:
well. After a visit during the week
here he will go east tor visit wih
frieijf's
EVANGELIST WILLIAMS
DRAWING GOOD CROWDS
Interesting Heriea of Revival Meet-
ings iieing Held at Meth
odist Church
The revival meetings at the Mh.
odlBt church are progressing splen-
uiuiy, gooa congregations attending
each of the services. The evangellst
pastor. Rev. Stephen B. Williams, of
Lincoln, preaches the old theology
that characterized the revival move
ments of an earlier day, and Is Indic
ative ot success here in Alliance. He
says that sin is sin, and the blood ot
Christ is the only remedy; that a
man must repent, and change his way
of living, in order to be a Christian.
un Sunday there were three serv
ices, one in the afternoon for women,
when the preacher spoke of the pow
er of influence, and emphasising the
fact that parents should live Godly,
Christian lives in order to lead their
children in the right way. The older
people held a brief prayer service on
the parsonage lawn preceding the
regular meeting, marching in a body
to the church, while the Epworth
Leaguers held a meeting on the lawn
at the Thomas home, where the evan
gelist Is staying, and where he will be
glad to have those call who may care
to see him personally.
Un Saturday afternoon Mr. Wil
liams held a brief street service, be
ing impressed with the largo cumber
of people on the streets who do not
come to the services, and for about
fifteen minutes bad a respectful hear
ing. He plans to have several such
services during the meeting, nnd a
number of the young people of the
church have agreed to take part.
The services continue each day at
threo o'clock in the afternoon, and at
eight at night. Cottage prayer ser
vices are held at nine In the morn
ing, and a preliminary prayer serr
lce in the church at 7:4 6 each even
ing. The general public is invited to
these services, and all will be made
welcome.
On next Sunday morning Mr. Wil
liams will give bis address, bearing
on Ms experience as a converted
Catholic. This has been given in va
rious parts of the country as a popu
lar lecture, and has elicited many
words of commendation from minis
ters snd others. This address is not
abusive of the Catholic religion, but
the speaker tells in plain language
of the frllure of that religion to satis
fy the cravings of his own spiritual
nature, and tells of the . incidents,
step by step which led up to his con
version, and his acceptance of the
Protestant faith.
A CASE OF JIM JAMS"
Foreigner Sleeping In Box Car Droprf
Coat and Hat and flan for
Deftot at Full Speed
A foreigner, whose name the police
have been unable to learn, ran Into
the arras of Chief of Police Jeffeis
at the Burlington depot at four'
o'clock Sunday morning screaming at
the top of his voice, "They're after
me, they're afiei me." The chief
took vlm in town and escort "1 him
to the police station, where it waa
found that he was suffering from a
severe case of the "Jim Jams." or de
lirium tremens. '
Chief Jeffers found the man's coat
near a box car in the yards. It Is
supposed that he had been in the car
when scared by the imaginary snakes.
PILK POWDER BURNED
Alliance's Fire Chief Mude Mistake
of StMJMiiiiK Too Near 4 'an
of Powder
Leonard 1'ilklngton, chief of th
Alliance volunteer tire department,
md driver of the auto truck, was
burned about the fate and nt-ht arm
:iaI Thursday. Ho his nearly re
covered from the burns.
Pilk and some other firemen were
endeavoring to ignite some powder,
left over from the celebration on tho
Vurth 'n a can. A match had been
dropped into the can without result.
I'u .a v r.pti 1 iiis pipe of its '"ftiie
out" into the can and got out of the
road too late.
Will riii Trop with Aeroplanes
Colonel Tom Banning, who has
Ven active in recruiting the new vol
tu'eeii? foi a special company to bo
i t to Mexico, has decided thut h
will equip the troop with aeroplanes
of a new model. The latest niodtd.
which is the one he proposes to use,
was invented by Colonel Evans of Al
liance, and is called the "Uoosevelt
ilugheg" combination easy-rider. Its
chief points lie in the fact that It
llies high and covers many things. It
s very doubtful whether this ma
hlne is practicable in its pr -sent con
lit ion but on the earnest recotumen
'alion of Col. Evaus, Col. Banning
has decided to give the machine a
. .ir tiial. before Uiiag Al Brown's
ubinarii e, offered to him last week.
'ut the l iiulM from Tree
Property owners In Alliance who
have trees with low limbs must cut
ihetu off or have It doue for them by
the city. Reports have come to the
city ottkluU lately of a number of ln
.'antes In which people bare narrow
ly escaped injury by running into the
low limbs of trees which overhang
the sidewalks. The city council has
lirected that these be fixed.
