imb. WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair to-day and to-morrow, with little '
' 1 Sh f A.
biiaugc 01 temperature.
Highest temperature yesterday, 89; lowest, 73.
Detailed weather, mnll and murine reports p pace li,
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 317.
NEW YORK, THURSDAY, 'JULY 13, 1916. Cnijriphf, 1916, by the Sun Printing and Publishing Association.
nTl? VTOKjrP Greats New Turk. 1 Flaewnsre,
UJNiij LCIN 1 Jrir city and Newark. 1 TWO CENT".
whines fop. all I
: ' i
SHARK KILLS 2
AND WOUNDS LAD
IN INLAND CREEK
Attacks Bathers Up Stream
Far From Ocean at
Matawan.
3IAX SEIZED SAVING
BOY VICTIM'S BODY
Consternation Along Coast
as Tidings of the Two
Deaths Spread.
Matawan, N'. J.. July 12. A man
eitlng shark which had strayed far
from the Atlantic Ocean swam through
Rarltan Hay and up shallow Matawan '
Creek this afternoon, killed a boy i
. . I
swimmer. mangled a man so badly that
he died In two hours and savagely be-
let a seconu boy bather, taking away
almost all of a leg below the knee.
Ths dead boy was Lester Stlllwell,
twelve-year-old ton of Sir. and Mrs.
Willlim Stlllwell of aiatawan. Ills
body had not been recovered late to
night, although searching parties with
dragging Irons and dynamite hunted
long and thoroughly.
The man, who was attacked as he
n.is making for shoro with young
StlllwcH's body, was Stanley Flshor,
a popular young man of this place. 1
His right leg was torn and he was o
....i- if..,. m ..,,, 1 , i... t
weak after his removal to tho Mon-
mouth Memorial Hospital at Kong
Branch that the surgeons did not dare
to amputate. Death resulted from
Shock and loss of blood.
Fisher remained conscious until hi
t 7:lii P M. Talktnc with Dr.
Reynolds, he said he had the body
of Stlllwell under his arm when the
shark attacked him.
"I was about to swim for the shore," 1
he said, "when 1 was grabbed by my
right leg. 1 knew then It was all up
lth mC "
!
ThooRht Shark W a Log.
t , , .,,,u
Tho third victim of the shark
ten.) ear-qld Joseph Dunn, a ummr
isl or here Mioli said to live In .New
Tork. He Is In St. l'eters Hospital nl
Vtit UrunswlcK. i no uociors nope w
all hi. life.
Young Stlllwell went bathing with
Albert CVHara, Frank Clowes and other
loys near his own age at Wyckoff'ii
dock, about fiOO yard from the mouth
of Matawan 'reek, which Is about fifty
fret wide. O'Hara got a glimpse of whit
he eupposwl to De a log on me Minnie
cf the swimming hole, and was Martled
,o 5ec the thing start toward him. He
. . . . -. .
wnt ncir tbe tiler, and reached It In a
.,rni,.i. As he was nullhiE himself.
rip a ladder the shark Just mlesed him. '
aid he saw the dorsal tin cut the water.
Stdluell, who was hwlmmlng a few
feet from shore, apparently was un-
.onelous of his danger. The hhark
jvvam toward him. caught him by an ,
arm or u leir and bore him under.
II tonpanlons shouted as only ttr- eaIth Commissioner; Dr. Simon Flex-rnn-'rlclieu
boys can yell, and It wnsn t of the 0ckcfeller Institute: tr.
Inn before heveral frightened pjrsoiis 'cnry n Kollk, Dr. Ellas 'H. Hartley of
nde standing on the shore. Among the (he U)ns l8anrt College Hospital: Dr.
.ny arrivals was Stanley Fisher He Wajter H- James, T""ldcnt of the Acad-
v stiong, imweriuiiy uum nm... ....
i-actlce had made him much at home
.he water. Stripping to the waist, he
.1 into the creek and started to look
for the Stlllwell boy. believing the snarK
itad dlsappeated after his work of
ilcth.
nody Foond nn Bottom.
nerhans half an
hw, after Stlllwell was drngged down .Suggestions were then asked. There
that Fisher discovered his body on the , a long discussion, and after it was
nuidy bottom. A moment later there over Mayor Mltchel made a brief state
A.1S a scream and Fisher cried out that ment as to what had been decided on.
h- was being attacked. At that moment I ......... ie..lvd.
lhe man eater's teeth wero sunk deep. Two Concrete Idea. Kol,ed.
his leg -ear tho thigh. People on ,jut cf a great deal of scientific dls-Phon-
s.iw him fling Ills hands helplessly CUMion," said the Mayor, "two concrete
Mi v.Au.i th.n h went under. n.in.. Hav. ripvelooed as suggestions
tv. .1,1,.. ...1 om,ir htm at two
........... .... ...
iren in a noat. wno were axiu.K . "
,.Mh .... UHUwaI!
went to nis ,
re-nie Fi.-her wan taken ashore.
Dr George C. Reynolds of Matawan
via sent for In a hurry, lie exumineu
Firtier as he still lay nude on the bang .
of the creek. He found that the flesh of
'he right ler had been ripped off from
the hip to the knee, leaving a Jagged
wour.d about eighteen Inches long. The
hone was not crushed. The physician j
.Minuted that about ten pounds of flesh I
were missing. There were no signs of
,.i. .. . . ... .i i
L!".' ' """"' lr'V" ""?T"..? l.i
-IeZ Branch
Cipt. and Mrs. W. II. Fisher, parents
horn.' of
of the dead man. are at the
their daughter, Mrs. A. It. Nichols In
Minneapolis. Capt. Fisher Is a retired
commodore of the Ocean Steamship Com
pany. After the llrst shock of the tragedy
had passed word was received that
young Dunn had been attacked by a
hark further toward the mouth of the
ereek. The boy was swimming In his
favorite Miot near the dock of the New
Jersey company when a shark grabbed
Wm by the leg and tnro off the llesh
from the knee down. Shocked villagers
fent for Dr. Heynolds, who was admin
t.-i s i it i
Dr II. S. Cooley. This committee will not take the pi ace
After returning from St. Peter's Hos- of the advisory board of the Health e
rltal to-night. Dr. Cooley. describing the I paitment. but tbe members have prom-
1'unn boy's wound, said: 'Tho 'front
nd sldts of the boy's leg were cut Into
Hbbons from the knee to the ankle by
the i,.h 0f t,e shark. Tho bones were
"l rrushed and the main arteries In the
lf of the leg were not cut. There Is a
chant of saving the boy's leg."
Nets Across Creek.
All through Matawan and up and
town Matawan Creek the news of the
harks visit far from the natural
atnt of sharks, sped by telephone and
h)' word of mouth nnd It wnsn't long
tefotft 400 or BOO people were running
aloi g the banks In the hope of getting
ome trace of the man eater.
Homebody propisied running a wire net
erfi the creek to prevent the shark
from making his way back to Barltan
ay nd thus cut through lower New
Vork Bay and bsck to the Atlantic,
rlshermen were quickly Impresied Into
terviee and nets were stretched. Then
suggestion wu made to kill the shark
Continued en Fith Pag.
AND NEW YORK PRE SS
PARALYSIS DEATHS :
FEWER jJJORE CASES
Day's Hcports Show 17 Fn
tnlitles; 102 Now Victims,
a ToImI of 1, H0.
MAYOK MEETS DOCTOHS
Conference Lends to More
Eniprfrcncy Measures to
Stem Kpidemic.
The new vlctlmi of Infantile n.iralvsls
were fewer yesterday than on Tuesday.
b"1 numb" ""ve the average
" ' ' ,, ""I10"''1" ' ' lt week
H,,l Indicate a further snrcad of th
cplamlc. The
Department gave the additional c.iera as
162, a drop as compared with 195 of
the previous day. but S3 more than
any other day. The number of deaths
was 17, as against 3: on Tuesday.
While there were only 12 new cases
In Manhattan, the addresses showed that
there Is one case In Columbus avenue,
there are two In lied ford street and ons
In Cannon aireet, on the East Side, new
spots. The total cases for Brooklyn for
the day were 131, a decrease of 24 from
Tuesday. queens showed an Increase
with 13, while lllchmond had 5 and The
Bronx 1. The total number of cases for
''e epidemic Is 1.410. the deaths 2S7.
I" view of the tendency of the disease
,0 contlnue UOUIfh the lol weather and
lhe fllct that m-icust, know so little
about the germ, the city administration
decided yesterday to take still other
nieasifcs In the hope of combating the
P'-aguc. These measures were decided on
at a conference called by the Mayor with
heads of several departments, Including
llialth Commissioner Haven Lmerson,
the advisory board of the Health Depart
ment and other physicians, comprising
the ablest expert on children's diseases
In the country.
nnirmrp un.ira rw u nv.ra,
This conference, which was really Dr.
Emerson's suggestion, was held hi City
Hall and lasted for more than two hour.
u,de. siayor Mttchel and Dr. Emerson
were ,.pIlce Commll).
0odley. Klre Commissioner Adam-
strcct clennlng Commissioner
. M - . .
Keth,rllU,n Tenement Houe Commls.
sinner Murphy and License Commissioner
Hell.
The physicians present Included Dr.
I.elaml Cofer. Health Olllccr of the Tort;
Dr. Samuel Lambert, dean of the College
of I'hyslclana and Surgeons: Dr. Alvah
it ti uifh ntnror of the
lit lW.J. .VI...... ----
Von. Dr, William H. Park. Dr. S. S.
Uo(inater, former Health Commission
,. ti..eo,man Delatour of Hrook-
. r. .. .... VlKt,l tir.ild.nt t
'V.l V,. ', , .k.. ineer lie. i
' " n s u.-Ulattls. In charge of J
iIealth Department In llrooklyn ; Dr.
..ob-nJon Health Coivmlssloner I
V ch,CB1,0 . Dr. John W. llrannan. pre.l- i
. , tne Hoard of City Hospitals:
, ,, Jow.r, sanitary engineer In
X !i,mnn II. Illnrs. State ,
.. f Mellcine: Dr. c ii. wivinuer
of he l-1,luJ states Public Health Ser-
p Antonio Stella and Dr. Philip
Van Ingon of tne niaru i-urner
..it,.t lr. Oeorze Draper. lr. ieon
Lauria and Dr. Floyd M. Crandall.
Dr. Ilmerion explained the progress
of the disease In the city, told of the
.,,ir in th. hosnltala and In the field,
,v.. nitnrv work and the precautions.
..... i t.u nniiolnted Dr. Flexner, Dr. .
.""-' . .. ...7. u.ii, nr.
i.oinwaier. r. .-.... """ - f,"
Uoty and Dr. James 10 mi '"'''
Emerson to consider ana promuiTin
them. I expect that the committee win
report ,iu ;.i : - --
bps to-uay. ...
W.un a : First-Further Held In-
. ... nn n vtt Klrst'
,.eti,. in following mcmtiers of faml-
lies of diseased cn i iren
Into other communities in order", learn
of cases originating l"", Jfrd
sons which may have not been reported
,,. ,hA Iieiuii-tment of Health.
iF,,e a mote succinct and
simple Matt mint to be given to the pub-
lie for the guidance
dren exposed to or attacked by the ...
lie tor inc kuiuhiih . - - -
ease: and also to noiio.i, u .umi .-.
In reporting suspicious cases.
Department llolnac It. Brat.
"Beyond that It seemed to be the con
sensus of opinion that the Health De
partment Is doing nil that can be done
n tho light of human knowledge of the
disease. The department is doing all
lint Is possible, necessary or desirable.
I have asked the gentlemen who met
me to consider themselves as a special
he Mavor during the
..,. nf th Is ernoem.c. i'i. ie......
... rltnlrmnn nf thin commlitro,
Used to meet me .
sarv to can iin-.u
The Mayor also said that there was a
irreat difference of opinion ns to how
fhe dlbcase l transmitted, and that no
decision on that point had been "hed.
The conferees also suggested that the
doctors of the city be mobilised In a
manner that would Insure quicker re
mrtlnar of suspicious cases. Great
stress also was laid on the neOsslty of
more la'ritory work. The help of the
Mrmr also will I be sought, with the aim
of nstnictlng members of churches what
should be done In suspldouB cases.
Following this conference. Dr. hmer
on Immediately called to his office the
heads of the bureaus of his department,
explained to them what had been de
chled upon at the meeting with the
Mayor, and made suggestions for work
In accordance with the decisions reached.
Dr Kmerson said he had no statement
to mike, beyond saying that there Is no
reason for panic He said that every
Conrtntisd o Fourth Pag.
1
U. 5. Officer Guards
Submarine Secrets
WASHINGTON, July 12. So
crcts of German submarine
construction will not 'be revealed,
even to the United States Gov
ernment, by Capt. C. F. Hu&fes,
U. S. N. Returning to-day f.-em
Baltimore, he said:
My object in inspecting the
Deutschtand was not to obtain
Eecret information, but to fol
low out my orders. I made a
point of not learning more than
I could help.
Capt. Hughes is nn expert in
matters of ship construction. For
ycurs he inspected vessels for the
General Hoard. He realized when
he boarded the Deutschland he
was in a position to learn about
everything of technical value the
boat contained.
KOENIG WILL MEET
HIS BROTHER HERE
Twenty Licder and Schntzcu
bmuls to Join in Reunion
After 20 Years.
Twenty yeeirs ago two brothers parted
on the wharf In Hamburg, Germany, one
starting for America In search of for
tune and the other remaining behind to
Join the Gentian merchant marine.
The man who came to this country Is
now-the owner of a hotel, the head of a
s.ivltiK society bearing his name and an
office holder In a score of German so
cieties. From the day the two young
men gripped each other's hands nd said.
"Auf wledersehen, meln lleber Hruder"
the two have not seen each other once,
have not even heard fiom one another In
many years,
On Monday mointng the brother who
came to Amcilca, George Koeiilg. of H7
Kat Fourth street, unfolded his news
paper, glimpsed at the story of the sub
marine Dcutschl.md's history-making ar
rival In the Chesapeake Hay and ex
claimed to hi" wife, Margaret, "Meln
Gott ! The captain Is my brother l'aul !"
Small wander that George was aur
prised and elated to read that the able
seaman brothor he had left In Ham
burg n generation ago had suddenly won
renown by making an underwater Jour
ney ot more than 4,000 mile. Small
wonder that his first thought was to ar
range a fitting reception for that brother.
The celebration In honor of Capt. l'aul
Koenig, arranged by h!n brother, George, (
is to lat ten ilas. Herman L,. Sonradtr.
of the Republican State committee, has ' Picture operator now u-e a water con
boen made chairman of the committee denser to separate light and heat when
that Is to Invite him and make hi com
Ing a royal welcome.
Preparations are even now well under
way. The Hotel Koenig, at K,7 Hast
Fourth street, is already decorated for
tlie occasion. The walls of the lobby
te hung with pictures of Hlsmarck, Von
Hlndenburg and the Ktler and over all.
' KTfM flag of the Fatherland. Five j
thousand members of the twenty schuti-1
enounus aim I eaerminas to wnicn
feoige koenig belongs are making ready
their club houhe.j to throw them open
to the hero of the hour. In all these
homes of hospitality they were drinking
last night to "L'ncr Paul'' and singing
"Hoch soil er leben. hoch soil er leben,
.Irelmal hoch. der Kommandant der
Deutschland 1"
DEUTSCHLAND MEN SPFE'IVF-RS,
ul ... , f .
Sim of ire,- rre.ed In Washing-
Ion for Fat Motor Trip.
Wasiiivc.tov Julv t Nix members
ton for alleged violation of the speed
laws They made the trip from Haiti-1
more to Washington In u motor car
owned by the North German Lloyd Com-
Pn,. ur. n -J i.u.ir..r.
The motor cycle policeman who arrest-
ed the visitors say the car was run-
nlng 'at twenty-five mites an hour In tho
residential section. The men put up col-'
lateral for the chauffeur and wero al-.
lowed to depart to visit various places
"."" ' ,
, or mieresi. ine car carneu an Amerl-
can Hag op one side and tho German
colors on the other
i vT?q SWPPAWTI nTftQ-pS TWnflT.
"
... An,doil. (1lll4tfrt Rlcor.
Ion to Tarrytnwn.
Takrvtown, N. Y July II. Because
of the prevalence of Infantile parnlyMs
In New York, Mrs. Flnl. y J. Shepird
nas closed ner rowing senooi at i.ynu-
hurst until further notice. Mrs. Shen
ard has also closed her playgrounds and
-
from New York this summer.
HUOKES'S SUCCESSOR PICKED.
Wilson Choice fcalrt .ot to
be
fPllrlen or lirrHor)',
Wabhinuton, July 12.- -President Wil
son Is undei stood to have selected the
man to whom he will tender tho vacant
place on tho Supremo bench formerly oc
cupied by Chfirlts H. Hughes. The selec
tion Is said to have been made at a con
ference this morning attended by the
President, Attorney-General Gregory
and Secretary of War Baker.
No anouncement was made as to the
President's choice. A report wns In ell
culatlon that a Nevv Yorker had been
l llimril, l.ui ll in u.H.ei ni.iuu mm oe tn
not Morgan J, O'Brien, It can be said
that tho President will not namo Attorney-General
Gregory In view of the hit
ter's conviction that the new appointee
should be a man free to pass on Impor
tant pending cases,
Secretary of the Interior Lane Is one
of the men the President Is known to
have under consideration.
GOETHALS NOW TO RETIRE.
I'rrsldent Finally Aiirees to
v-
eept Ills lleslsrnatlnn.
Washington, July 13. President
Wilson to-day agreed to accept the
resignation of Major-Gen. Goethals as
Governor of the Panama Canal at an
early date, to be fixed by the General.
Gen, Goethali called nt the White House
and again urged his desire to resign the
Governorship and retire from the active
list ot the army now that his work of
bulldng the canal bad been finished.
GOLD LIGHT FOUND
BY A FRENCHMAN !
jlMissauri Reduces Heat So j
Mneli Paper Hoi Is Are
1'setl in Movies
DREAM OF SCIENTISTS
Hutchison, Edison Engineer,
Says It Would .Mean Enor
mous Eeononiy.
Rv Ainoetotrd Ptf
PaiiIs, July 11. The substitution of
paper rolls for celluloid films In moving
i plctutn machine made possible by the
new "cold" light discovered by the
French enislneer Dussaud, described to
the Academy of Science by l'rof. llr.ui-1 RPment of the War Department. 1'res
ley. with whom Dussaud studied, Is ob-, eent Wilson, after listening to argu
talned by automatic separation of '-eat j ment, f Democratic members of Con
rays from luminous rays. j Br,.s, from New York, has Interfered
The quest of an absolutely purellght j with the order to the extent of directing
devoid of all heat long has been one of j Secretary of War Daker to make an
the great problems of modern physics.
The electric light Is the nearest approach
to this Ideal, but It is far from It,
M. Dussaud has been working on this
problem for many jears. The light ob
tained by his method I ro Intense that
It Is possible to throw Images from news
paper Illustrations, picture postcards and
photographic prints on a screen even In
a lighted room as clearly and sharply as
If they were ghtMt lantern slides
Mlller rteese Hutchison. Thomas
Kdlson's chief engineer, said last night :
"If Dussaud has found out how to gen
erate light without heat, the Importance
of hi discovery cannot be rxagKerated.
Its use In moving pictures would ln only
a thousandth part ot Its scientific and
Industrial employment. Dussaud has a
flue reputation, but 1 should have to see
his' Invention demonstrated before 1
could llleve In it. Why. if all the en
ergy of a dynamo could be converted
Into light, one small dynamo could light
a whole city!"
Mr. Hutchison sal that the substitu
tion of paper for celluloid Minis In mo
tion picture machine, had been found
Impracticable thus far because the
sprocket wheel moved so fast that the
paper was torn. The expedient of
making paper tough and nearly trans
parent by treatment with sulphuric acid
has been tried without much success, he
added.
In order not to burn the Alms, motion
they have to stop their machines to show
one of the filmed photographs as a
still."
I. W. W. SOLDIER MUTINIES.
Itnllerv II, N. Y., Man Thrum tie
at .Non-Coin, at Jlc.tllen.
McAu.icn. Tex.. Headuuarters Sixth Dl-,
vision, U. S. A.. July 12. Charhs couldn't Keep the ousting of Col. Conley
Sehrelner. a prlvnte In Battery D. First ,11ml Lieut -Col. Phelan of the Slxty
I'leld Artillery, proclaimed hlmfelf on ninth Infantry from lelng tho chief
I. W. W. In camp this afternoon and 'topic ot conversation nt Camp Whit
threw nil axe nt a non-commlsloned mm The consensus of opinion I that
officer. Sergeant Poole. ' thee two oflk-ers will be returned to
When taken to the cuard house . command. One regular army ofllcer
(Sehrelner grabbed an automatic pIMol
from one of the tunrd and tried to
t-hoot him. He was overpowered after a
i struggle and held for general court mar-
'
,, v r), KrM Klea Artillery, Is a'
,cw york cty nrganlsatlnn, Its armory
' Is at lS8 Broadway, and It Is com-
BRESLTN FORECLOSURE ASKED.
...ii.,,,,,n ,.r ',
lintel Mnnanr.
iSut , fore-lose a mortgage on the
j,ottll Hreslin. nt Broadway and Twen-
ty-nlnth street, wns filed yesterday.
obrge H. Bascom and others, former
owners of the property, arc seeking to
I r(.cover $600,000 which they allowed to
rf.nl!1 . 1Urt of the purchase mice
...i,.. ,ho.. .i,i ti. hotel to the iint.l
Operating Associates In It'll.
A representative of the resident man-
1 aner. K. L. Brown, said last night that
FU , of lt frPny naturo atl(, ,
i Part at the adjustment f th.morl-
gago nuances oi ine prot.eri. lie Haiti
that the suit would not affect the oper
ating of tho hotel.
-
IT RAINS CATS IN BROWNSVILLE
Itnrk n Humor In Fight on
Infantile l'nrall.
Somebody In tho Brownsville section
of Brooklyn started a rumor yesterday
that the police, Intent on ridding the city
ot cats In the campaign against Infan
tile paralysis, would pay live cents for
each cat delivered at a station house.
The effect was staggering. Into the
llrownsvUI" and Libel ty avenue police
iitntloiiH rained pets and vagrants,
mousers and mllkfeds, ancient scarred
cats and engaging kittens. Boys car
rle.l big ones under their arms and
kittens In their pockets. Tho quarters
of the police wero overrun.
At the Liberty avenue station Capt.
Donahuo said to a woman who brohght
In a crate of cats: "I'll give you a
nickel to tnko them away." Finally he
culled up tho H. P. C, A. and a wagon-
, of (,nH wlH tnkcn , , pouJ
"DRYS'' TO NOMINATE FORD.
Ihmcr to Try Mini In Presidential
liner If He'll Hun.
Chicaoo, July 12. Henry Ford of De
troit will be nominated for President on
tho first ballot by tho Prohibition party
at Its national convention In St. Paul
July IS to 21, If ho will accept the
honor, In tho opinion of party leaders
who held a conference hero lo-dav
"1 believe Mr, Ford would he the
strongest candidate vo ;ould name,"
said Eugene Challn, a former Presiden
tial candidate of the Prohibition pnrty,
"Ho would get many thousands of labor
votes, In addition to the solid support of
old line Prohibitionists."
If Mr. Ford declines to become a
candidate, the leaders declare that the
choice will be between J. Frank Hmlv,
ev-Governor of Indiana; FAigene.S', Koss,
ex-Governor of Massachusetts, and Will
lam Suiter, ex-Governor of New York.
POLITICIANS URGE
CONLEY'S RETENTION
President Yields to Extent of I
Ordering Review of (Jen.
Wood's A'ctlon.
A KM V MEN' ItKSENT IT
They Point Out That Four
Colonels Serving in Mexico
Are Also Dropped.
Washington, July 12. The order of
Mnjor-Gott. Wood imiMerlng Cols. Con
ley and Phelan of the Sixty-ninth
New York Infantry out of tho Federal
service on arrotmt of physical disabil
ity has brought politics Into the man-
Investigation. Secretary linker In turn
has directed Major-Gen." Hcott, Chief of
Staff, to call upon Gen. Wood for a
report.
Indications to-night are that political
influence will hold sway and there la
growing Indignation In army clrclks
over Interference of this nature In a
strictly military matter.
It Is pointed out that five Colonels of
Gen. I'ershliiK's force In Mexico have
' lut been ordered before a retlrlni
board on account of slight physical dis
ability. They have all done excellent
nice In Mexico. In fact Col. W. C.
Hrown commanded tho Tenth Cavalry
at l'arral.
The other officer are Col. George
Sand. Col. James Ixickett and Col. Jacob
C Galbralth, all now attached to the
l'.leventh Cavalry, and Col. Charles W.
I'enroe of the Twenty-fourth Infantry.
It Is regarded as practically certain that
thee otllcers. much against their wishes,
will be retired. They are all excellent
ollleers, have splendid records and have
done good service with Gen. I'ershlng.
but this Is In no way allowed to Interfere
with the strict military regime. Army
otllcers here say men like these will
keenly feel tho Injustice If others, backed
by politics, are favored.
Ollleers here commend the spirit shown
by Col. Conley and I.leut.-Col. Phelan,
but they do not like the entrance of poll
tics Into the nrmy and Its threatened
domination over the military regime.
REINSTATEMENT TALK.
Belief nt Camp Whitman Order
Will lie Overruled.
Camp Whitman. Gnrr.s Havkn.N. Y.
July 12. Kven the departure of tho
l pioneer battalion of the Twenty-second
Engineers for the Texan border to-night
whose name cannot be mentioned for
obvious reasons phrased the general
j opinion when no saui uniay mat army
jincn look for President Wllon to use
Gen Wood.
"The Second Infantry was the best
'""king bunch of men I saw leave
camp." this officer said, "but I'd rather
ni Ufeecd''
It was in "a pouring thunderstorm and
,, .. .,,,..,. o,. ninn..,
union 01 ine weiuy-sei-o.iu leu. I l.ej
iMartcd tho march from their camp at
;t p, jt f,pr peVeti hours of listless
1 waiting, Mr they had expected to leave
I at S '30 In the morning. It was 4
j o'clock when the train benrlng them
, their equipment pulle.l out of (ir.cn
Haven station.
Col. I.iieas. commander of tbe Twentv
. ..,nn.t .t.,i iov ..lit, v,i. o...
tallon Major Frederick N. Whltely was
In command. The Colonel will remain
In camp until Friday, when the teeond
battalion departs, and will then go to
New York to look after recruling and
administrative duties for about a wick.
After that he will go to the border, tak
ing with him the enlisted band ot the
engineers.
The four companies of the Tenth In
tautry from New York city, Flushing,
Mount Vernon. White Plains and Yonk
ers were to-day put through a hind
mir.ii In Poughquag and ba.k, fourtten
mile-, a conditioning exercise.
Three armored motor cars, one
nrmored supply wagon and forty-nve
inntoi cycles of the First Armored
Motor Battery made a trial run frum
their rump at Peeksklll to Camp Whit
man to-dtiy. The trip wat. rompletid In
ui hour nn.l a nnlf. capt. ll, (i. Mont-
1 e.imery was In command
1 he battery
Is waiting examination by regular ord
tiunre officers before being mustered In.
Wnldo Not to lie Colonel.
Auunt, July 12. Ithlnolander Waldo
has not even been proposed to Gov.
Whitman as a possible successor to Col.
Conley of . tho Sixty-ninth New York
Infantry. rue novernor mane mis
statement to-night when Infoimed Hint
Is was reported he had appointed Mr.
Wnldo as Colonel. The Governor has
tho power to appoint the successors to
tlie rejected Hlxty-nlnth ufflerrs, and
several names have already been sug
gested to him, but he said positively
lhatMr. Waldo's was not among them.
(ien, Wood TnUIng No Part.
Pi.ATTsnt'Wi, N, Y., July 12. Major
Gen. Wood, questioned this evening re
uardlng the reported nppolntm. nt of
Ilhlniintider Waldo ns Colonel of the
Sixty-ninth New York Infantry, leplled'
"The regular aimy ollleers have nothing
to do with tho appointment of ollleers of
tho State Guard. That Is a matter that
Is entirely up to the Governor of the
State. Mr. Waldo was with ua In the
Phl!lpplns nnd served well. If he I ap
pointed Colonel of the Sixty-ninth ho
will receive the appointment upon his
own merits."
GREAT RKAB STRING WATER.
I.e. the cm ot sis fl... (teppertd bottles.
'
at.
Mrs. Joseph Chamberlain.
MRS. CHAMBERLAIN .
TO WED CLERGYMAN
Widow of British Statesman
Engaged to Canon of
Westminster.
I.O.SOON. July i.'. The engagement Is
announced of Mrs. Joseph Chamberlain,
widow of the llritlsh statesman, and the
Itev. William Hartley Carnegie, rector
of St. Margaret'a atd Canon of West
minster, lleforu her marriage Mrs.
Chamberlain was Mlfs Mary Kndkott of
Massachusetts, daughter of the late Will,
lam C. Endlcott, Secretary of War In
President Cleveland's Cabtnrt.
Mrs. Chamberlain has been a widow
since July. IS 14. Although much
younger than her husband, who was
78, she wu considered an Ideal help
mate, and at the time of his death It
was suggested by London newspapers
that tho King might confer a title on
her.
Mr. Chamberlain arrived In New York
on May 12 of this year after .1 con-
miufiun nuaence irom inc inut-ti wiit",
of more than seventeu, j ears. She said
'ev ', IT. ...w .e,.e,
had on mo Just to ree the panoramic
view of the harbor. Kven the water Is
changed. It I New York, though, and
every wharf sign shout It welcome to
a native, no matter how htlated hl or
her return."
AUSTRALIA TO STUDY U. S.
Commonwealth Sending; I'oniml-
Ion to tintber llntn
,e aovcrnment of the Commonwealth
The
of Australia has decided to appoint a
" " u K' ."'' ".' .. I.
iu mve.1iK.11e 01 ..wu..-
, plnyment.
To make Australia Independent of out-
side sources for cables and metal ropes,
It Ih proposed to establish a Govern -
ment cable works
MOTORING LIFT BOY IN JAIL.
... .
.... nwr .... 1,1, .. .t-iiHi-,i
a.l.OOO Jewel Theft.
v vn.ithfnl ee,,. ..t..v!.tr ri.,me i,..,
drove his own initomublle nfler w.irkint
hours, wore a J.lPn diamond ring nu i
oxvenslve clothts !om the chance
temporarily, at hast to tl:ih hi finer -
les last night when detectives nrreted
him In the lobby of the Hotel Cillli g.
wood, 45 West Thirty-fifth street, on a
charge of burglary nn.l grand hvccuy
The ncciucd, who sil.l he wns John
Powell, 22 yeirt old. idinltted In ll..- de
tectives,
es. they s.iy. that It was i he who
Jevvdiy valued at from ,..m; lo
took
$7,00.1 from apartment in tho Colllng
wood occupied by Mrs, l Ch.irhs
Macarow of Montrevl, wife of the gen
eral manager of .Merchant It ink of
Canada The Jewels are Intact in i
Powell's room at 03 West 1.15th street, i
the detectives s.iy the pilsnner told
them.'
"MOOSE EXTINCT." SAYS LODGE.
t.nllliiuer Tiill. of
Cliliiiniiiiksi
,
Oilier of Polities
Wabhinuton, July 12 Senator Wads
worth, Jr., secured the adoption of an
amendment to the agricultural appro
priation bill In the Senate this afternoon
by which the appropriation fir the r-
termination of predatory animals that
war upon live stock In the West shall be
expended only on public lands
Senator Wadswortli made
rpeech In which he rldlcirTcd
n In lot
tile Idea
that It was nerejsarv lo psy Govern
ment agents to teach the famine; and
Ini'.rti.
stockmen the best methods for eradlcat-
Ing prairie dogs nnd coyotes. '
Senator Gulllnger declared that chip- '
munks were numerous In New Mamp
shire and he wns of the opinion that
the money appropriated ought to be !
passed nround j
Senator leidge wna deriding the ap
propriation when Senator Thomas asked
him If part of the monev enyiti not bo
used to ijradlrate the Bull Moose In j
Massachusottr
"Tlie Bull Moose Is comparative! ex
tinct," replied Mr, Lodge.
The bill, carrying approximately
$24,000,000, wns passed by the Senate to.
day In virtually the same form as pnascd
by the House. It contains provisions tor
Federal grain Inspection and licensing of
ginln waro'iousce, and levies a tax of
two cents a pound on cotton sold for fu
lure delivery,
Iowa Democrats for Prohibition.
DBS MoiNns. Iowa, July 12 The Dem
ocratic convention to-day went on lecnl
ns favoring prohibition, The plntfmm
Indorred the Wilson Administration
Cesre' csrtonns ne sppesr ,tily In The
New York Evening Poet Dsll Jr., Bit Ic,
Aiv-
GERMANY'S THREAT
RESENTED IN D. S.
Danger Seen in Submarine
Plan to Urcnk British
Blockade.
A NEW I! BOAT CAMPAIGN
'Government Taking No Of
ficial Notice of the So
called Menace.
WAKiitNi.TON, July 12 Although of
ficials here sharo the general admiration
for Germnny'a latest submarine exploit,
there I a note of keen resentment at the
State Department over Germany's threat
to resume submarine warfare, which
.nines simultaneously with tho arrival
of tho Deutschland. Coupled with the
news from llerlln, the undersea boat's
transatlantic jvoyage. In tho opinion of
soino otllclals, assumes the gulso of a
distinct threat.
It Implies, according to these officials,
that German I boats can escape the
cordon of the llritlsh blockade and opcr
ate unhindered In the steamer routes of
tho Atlantic. Some even regard It as a
threat on the part of Germany to lnk
steamers, If tho submarine warfaro Is
resumed, within sight of American
shore.
No Official Not lee.
Tho reports that Germany onteni
plates resumption of her submarine cam-
pnlcn come unofhVIally through the
press, but It Is realized here that the
German official censors are authorizing
the spreading of these reports. Other
vvie they would not be permitted to be
cabled
The tliie.it to resume ubmaiiiia war
fare Is based on the anparcnt Inactivity
of the United .States imVenltng with the
llritlsh blockade. This feature Is re
garded as having It Inspiration In the
press department of the Foreign Olllce
In Wilhelmstrnsee.
No otllclal notice I King taken of
tho threats. Acting Secretary of State
Polk ha noted them, but showed no
signs of being swayed. In fact. It has
been publicly stated by Secretary Lan
sing that German threats to hurry
I'tilted State negotiation with Great
iiritaiu over tne oiocsaue wouiu act only ,
as a hindrance to these negotiations. HrltUh Push forward.
President Wilson Is understood to re
pent keenlv the Implication that nego- j 11"'ir tie' line beyond Contalmaison
tliitlons with the Entente Powers are , "eenilngly fcecure the British pushed foi -
i . , , . . i,..t...,i i... nn.iiM ti...
j..,, Especially evident when Secreta-y
i !.anslng said some weeks ago that Her-
lln's action In this respect "made It
iv'rrmelv iliillelllt for the t'nlted Stn'es
Iisi ii.i with Gr'-at Britain the fea-1
tures of the blockade."
Wnnls In llnrrj r. . l'a'.
. ,, , ,, .... rne Trones wood and certain other
The probable Immediate result of Her- ,mllltM peculiarly Illustrate the power of
It. s efforts to hurry Amer can n. gitla- th(1 ,.UIm ,, . c ,. ,
tlons with Great Britain will be the re. Imd (lp,r,wloni) srounrt.
sumption of the American demand to,:, . rlsl) r , (.,.rmilI1 nr).
know what punishment, f any, wihi.ij. , .,, ,.,.. ..... .,,
j; .,,
I mi ted out to the German submarine
! . . . . .
I , "f" lv . f: e
unable to get any satisfaction whatever
from the Gentian Foreign Office on this 1
nolnt. At first the Tinted States dl
, ,,,, ,u ask ,nformal,y ilbmlt lt
This brought no result-. It was later
followed by a formal r.quet on the part
.. he Cnlle.l St.-.le,, ti. know luint th..
. ,.,,,',,,, ,,',, .i,,..,
' ..u , rei.lt '
till m. result
' Tile llevt rimtemtilnt eil u.im Tm i. .In
mand on the part of this i lov.' rm,- nt
lor the information. The Slate I . -
'paitment has been loath to pre the
Tiiii.lt lieci.l.ve ,if th.. M..sttii..l n nf kith.
-
. marine wnrf.ire ami the l.nt.rove.l re!:.
m.ms with G, ritianv Il.il .-mi- th.er.tu
to resume this method of warfare will
I Immediately centre the attention of the!
. AiimiiiiMr.nnm on mat point, it is
! pointed out. i
'
.
. -v
WILL BUILD HERE.
Mm. in I. like to .loin S 1 110, IMMI, (Mill
snhinnrlne . pit ii of German.
11 IT T Mni.r lull' 1 'i ..i........?,,.
, ,1.llt,1p ' of , ,n)n,:it,all,P milMCll
,,ieiehaiitman Deutschland will result In
j the oiganlzatloii of a company capital
ized nt poslbly Mnn,.iOn,.ioo for tbe con.
stt iX'tuin of glgnhtlc submerslbles of
' ."..Ooo tons c.ipiiity for commerce be
tween this country and Germany
Th's f.ecame known late this afternoon,
following n serl.s of .'onfennres held at
the uttlce of tin Nmth German Lloyd
iiisl participated in bj Simon Lake, in-
v. mm of the submarine Carl A Luc-
.leiitz, German Consul nt this port. II
' G. and P G. L. llilkeii. American renie-
seiitanves of tbe i le an Navigation Com -
i.anv of Brenu n. and tvM iei.re.entatlves
i of the Ktupps. Capt Paul Koenig of the
I ii'tltsiiilaud was also pi. sent at theie
confer, nces
1 Simon Lake came to B.ihlmore foi
the purpose of libelling the Deutschland
for allegc.i infringements on his pat-
cuts Instead, lie was Invited to Join
the new company In the capacity nf con-
suiting engineer, and will sup. rvlse the.
i . instruction of the enormous undersea
I s...
in, , i iiiiiii.in i. nu nu- ui; i-oinpuuy. i mans were tii'a)rcpatel i ivh w ion is
i.-iu ...... ,.r.. ...... .. something over 2o0 acres . and
win tost i,ar.o,.ioo i:,uh. ',, 1Klt ,iecn l,,,Mrp, ,,, ml ,nt,
These boats will cost approximately undergrowth wan so thick her . e the hat
Jl.2.ri0,ii0(i each and will be used to tie that the men had t" '"" a pas
cairy iiitinltion materials to Germany sa-ie through it by pullln:; ine blanches
iiu.l bring back cargoes of dvestuffs nnd . to one side. The epl..."ii of shells In
medicine.',. I this, as In the Ttmies an l alier woods,
Simon Lake returned to-night to which have been n hei i contested.
Bridgeport, Conn., but will return lo oaucd showeit. of fr.g'iieiits of limbs
llaltiniore In a few days. The neve com- to fall on the troop Machine gun but.
pany probably will tal.n over the Ocean i lets paused through nn' of smnll ilium
Navigation Company of Bremen eter.
Tho unloading nf the I). uP-ciil iiid 1 The Isst fnrl.v aid of the M.iuielz
continued, but was not finished lo-dav. . Wood were the hardest to take because
Signs that the work of taking her of the fallen tnml.H and limbs of trees
closely packed cargo out of her Is be- which form.d a natural barricade, In
Ing speeded up are many The Itnpres. some case snlpei posted In a tree
s'.on that the Deutschland will not He were brough down when a big shell
.. 1 ., """""lru
When Captain Koenig was inked to-
day how he will uial.e III- arrangements
for departure ho all iwere.l l h a smile;,
"I shall clear and anr.oiii. my de.
parlure like au other merchantman
Tnen I will go."
Paul Illlken, local renre'entittve of
the (i.iTmaii Ocean Navigation Comimnv,
reluses to rontlrni rumois that the lire
men, the second of tho German mer
chant submarines, will be In Baltimore
BRITISH THRUST
GERMANS FROM
SOMME WOODS
i
Regain All Ground Lost In
Attack by Heavily Re
enforced Teutons.
HATG 0IT0SED BY
600,000 BAYONETS
Allies Preparing for Flank
ing Moves on Both
Banks of River.
GERMANS TAKEN IN
REAR BY SURPRISE
British Sweep Across 1,000
Yards Into Village of
Contalmaison.
London, July 12. The British bars
retaken tho ground lost last night to
the Germans, when heavily reenforced
they gained ground In the Mametz and
Trones woods. Tho British now hold
all of Mametz wood. Two German at
tacks sgalnst ConMlmnlson were re
pulsed. The occuputlon of Contulmalson, 11a
mets and Trones woods gives the Brit
ish a line running almost duo east and
west, so that the Hermans to the north
can be attacked on the flank when
their guns are brought up for the sec
ond phase of th(T operation.
South of the river the French are In
n position somewhat similar to the
British, and likewise can attack the
German flank south of BelIoy-en-Sa-terre
and Kstreeo.
There was no extensive attack on
either side to-day, even the artillery
having aomo rest except for the regular
shelling of certain points and sudden
outbursts when any troop movement
uiiH Keen.
warn new vrencnes into i ontaimaisoti
wood, which bring them here, a. on the
front of the Mameti wood, with obsta
cles cleared and on an average of two
or three hundred yards from the Ger-
seconu line, wnirn is noi ns strong
' as inn nrst line, laKen on juiy 1, anu Is
being shelled methodically night and
,,.,.,,. m ..l. ,h.r .nnre of the
I "I 'iri 1 1 ih gsiiit- 11111 rv ti 111 1-11 11 iiiii r 111 aiir
the wood lighting both
both
sides played the tiick of withdrawing
and Uaviiw the enemy under a sudden
murderous outl.tir-t from the gur.e..
, '-"K
, ' ,K' "' "' f"r-
. '"' rest the treed troops
I In ought out tinder i.iver of lhe emoke
'account for evei thing In the charges
I irule m wave nftci wave, with the men
' engaging "tell s c
. "age. ,
1 ''
itch cm (-crlm-
an i.hlegmiitlc
was not one of
aiHl .101 Un II ll'e alia I'
They mention rev cities
tiankly along wit a si:. sses,
saying
, tbe rman got into lis mere and we
got Into htm here" Tne stiengthenlng
of their contlileiiee .s 11 liable as the
troop become habituated to the style of
lighting.
. I . (Illleer I It. Ille.l.
Tie opiirtunity for Individual Inltlfi
t.ve I gie.it, and i .i tuples of It are
heard whenever the correspondent of the
Associated Iiess talks with a battalion
commander fresh from the Held. An of-lie.-i
who won the Victoil.i floss at Gal
llpoli irossed an open pl.uo In tho face
of a machine gun tire with two men.
bombed out a bombing pot protecting
guns and captured it without being hit,
but wa killed when he ventured a sec
ond time
Successful strati gy was responsible
j f'"' "10 tailing of both Contalmaison and
the Mametz wood. The final taking o'
; Contalmalsnn was accomplished w '
'few casualties, and the victorious tri.i..
when
wnen seen to-uay were in triumphal'
1 filrlls The Germans faced their n
chine gnus ns If expecting the ntt.n't
I from the south, but keeping cloe u
del' ptotectlng curtatns of fire the Urn
I lh waves swept across a thou ed
'ai.ls. reached the ruins of the villace
j Hd taking the guns and gunner- from
the rear, forced them to surrender
..
w noil l llnsnrii.
The Minuet?. Wood was rusiie I in the
:imn u.,v frnm the l.t.. ui,n t e Ger.
1 ...
. , "'' lr . ,. p ,ier'"!
d. r the Hunks of tires .mil were
i w i niiii i' i! i i, . , . , in- k , in, it I.
novel witn iiiincuii. in.' rnrest ruins
a i wor e than the itilns of villages
Orders Carried Out.
The orders were In K . ihrough the
.Miiin.i. Wiiod," ofUcei- .....1. "anil we
went through, dug In on Hie oihei edge
ns told nis stuck "
Commanding GerieMl have .
nusllv cautioned li.iii.ilon con. n
er as." lust uvcivaK... u-; when l!u
Conflmird on 7'i(n Vipc.
I
II
