wpWPfWWWPpjMJiw nummtmmmpmmn piiiwffi
KHWIHllMH''Wl1pillU un W. PMpipAHHliM.i
pMWll , nwiiiii-iimyw'iimiw
u llMl''li'llglwippwwp
u J
FINANCIAL EDITION
NIGHT
linmrot
NIGHT
EXTRA
VOL. II. NO. 259
PIIILADHJIiPIIIA, TIIUHSDAY, JULY 13, 1913.
Cortucnt, 1010, Bt ins rcauo Ltrxiit Courin.
PRICE OKJ33 CENT
y tfirtiger
Eh '
J,
-v
-i
tfo
k i
J'.v
f'
.
TEUTONS HURL
HUGE MASS AT
FORT SOUVILLE
French 75s Hurl Back Ter
rific Onslaughts on Ver
v dun Front
FIGHT NIGHT AND DAY
Germans Make Gain Near Junc
ture of Fleury and
I Vaux Roads
f
PAnis, July 13.
Donso German masses aro storming H10
approaches to Fort Souvlllo In tho seventh
treat assault on Verdun since tho battlo for
the fortress began, 146 daya t go.
Tho violence of yesterday's attacks fur
nished unmistakable cvldonco that Germany
is determined to continue tho nttaclt on
Verdun, regardless of her critical position
on other fronts French military critics
ngreod on this point today nftcr studying
tho reports from headquarters.
Tho present attack began Tuesday. Tho
Germans had spent 18 diys In preparation.
They brought up now guns and trench mor
tars, shifted moro troops from tho west
bank of tho Meuse and hurried fresh sup
plies of nmmunltlon to tho Souvlllo-Dam-loup
sector.
The French, ready to moet the shock,
turned looso a. Bheetcd flro Into tho ad
vancing German ranks and took tcrrlblo toll
with their 75s. Throughout Tuesday night
nnd all day yesterday tho battlo raged on
tho Souvitle-Damloup sector, tho Trench
counter-attacking with great spirit.
Only at one point, near tho Intersection
of tho Fleury and Vuux roads, did tho Gor
man attack gain ground.
Tho ofllclal communlnuo Issued by tho
French War Office today states that tho
Germans aro bombarding not only Fort
Souvllle, but also tho French position In
Choncls wood nnd Laufce works.
Fori Souvllle and Laufee works appear to
bo tho immediate objectives of tho Ger
mans. Fresh German regiments aro being used
at Verdun and are being hurled forward
against tho French positions with utter dis
regard for human life.
There was no Infantry action lait night
on that sector of the Sommo front held by
the French.
In tho Champagno tho Trench penetrated
a salient In tho German line, taking pris
oners In the Argonne a German attack north
east of Dolanto was checked by French
fires. In the Vosges a German attack south
of Carspach whs repulsed after a violent
grenade combat
The text of tho official communique fol
lows :
On tho'Somme front there wai an In
termittent cannonade.
In Champagne wo penetrated into tho
German HntH on the outskirts of Pros
ncs and brought back somo prisoners.
In the Argonno two surprise attacks
launched by the enemy against forces
north nnd east of the Uolante sallo.i.
wero checked by our lire. At La Fir
Morte wo set off a mlno and occupl .1
the southern edge of the crater.
On tho right bank of the Meuso no
Infantry action developed duilng the
night. Tho bombardment vvjh Intense
In tho sector of Souvllle, Chenols and
Laufee
In tho Vosges an attack by tho enemy
on one of our trenches south of Cars
pach after a veil- sharp grenade con-Itlct-
was repulsed.
TWO TEUTON ARMY CORPS
FIGHT TO KEEP HRITISH FROM
APPROACHES TO BAPAUjIE
' LONDON, July 13.
The second phase of the British offensive
is approaching a crisis in tho battlo north
east of Albert,' where British troops are
striving to advance two miles eastward to
the heights of Martin Push.
The Germans hae thrown two whole
army corps Into action on both sides of the
Albert Bapaume road -to defend the ap-
Conllnucd on.l'aio Tho, Column beien
, THE WEATHER
There seems to be a general conspiracy
In our midst. First the hot weather came
along and made persons grouchy and gen
erally miserable. But this was not enqugh
The moan lost Its head completely and by
hypnotizing a woman living In this city
atlllcted her with kleptomania. The rays
which ''she was compelled to face at night
caused her to lose control of her hands
completely. It seems that they reached out
and grabbed all sorts of articles In the store
which she didn't want at all, and she was
much surprised when she found she had
them. There is no name In the dictionary
for such a condition, although It might bo
termed moon-O-manla. But it is very evi
dent that the moon Itself Is affected toy the
heat. It now wears a tired expression as
It gazes down upon us these nights and
looks so cranky In general that even the
clouds gle It a wide berth and the stars
blink cautiously. Until the moon looks
pleased there will be no relief.
v FORECAST '
For Philadelphia and vicinity fair
and continued warm, with high Au
midity tonight and Thursday," gentle,
southerly winds.
LENGTH OFDW.
Sun rises
Bun seta
4 40 ft m IMooa acts . 2 30 a m.
1 .31 p in I Moon squib 11:03 p.m.
DKLAWAKK UIVKtt TIDE CHANGES,
CllESTNUT PTKEET
Low water 7-oa a m ILow water . T.07 p m.
HUh water 11 JS a m HUU ater
I tomorrow 13-20 a m.
TEMrEK.tr t'ltE AT K-tCIl noun.
si
H I 1 I 1 1 I I I I I
I
I
J 5
SOI 8,11 SOI S7I SOI 00) 001 001 T
X05T AND FOUND
FOUND An y way to plan a. nation tit
cur vJPX of law ?tt-pa 3uouar Htaurt
Qul4l puullalltj (res by tho Pub K L. J;er Qt
It at Lrdjtr fiotra' . r qo MilB Oiflc
. Other Let au4 Vomxi Atl en Van U
DOPE WORTH $1500 STOLEN
Thieves Enter Building of Diamond
Pharmacol Company Get Opium,
Heroin nnd Morphino
Tljo potlco aro making efforts today to
trace $1500 worth of "dope" stolen by
burglars, who early thli morning looted the
Diamond Pharmncal Company, 828 North
Broad street. In tho drugs tnken wero
derivatives of opium, heroin nnd morphine
nntrnnco was gained by breaking a win-eIo-
nfter tho early morning visitors had
cl mbed tho rear fence Tho drugs were
taken awny In small bottles and largo cans
It Is believed that somo traco of tho
thieves may bo obtained by meant of rccolpt
stamps and firm billheads, which also wero
taken A clue to tho Identity of tho men
may bo obtained If they try to show that
their stolen goods was purchased nt tho
Pharmacal Company's storo and properly
receipted for.
ELKS' PARADE IN BALTIMORE
SEEN BY CHEERING THOUSANDS
Unclo Joo Cannon and Other Congress
men in Line
BATVriMOIti: July 13 Tho Klks' pa
rade, tho biggest 'fcaturo of all B V O Elks
conventions, was witnessed here todny by
thousands, tho entlro lino of tho pageant
being packed with throngs of persons shout
ing "Hollo, Bill " Fifty members of Con
gross, Including former Speaker Cannon,
marched Following tho p.irado n band
contest, for which $2000 In prizes had been
provided, was held at Itlvervlew Park. Tho
Elk team drill contest was alo held at tho
park.
The Old Guard of tho Elks got together
last night nnd decided on tho ticket It
would support nt tho next convention In
Boston In 1917. The program Is to elect
Fred Harper, of Lynchburg, Vn , as grand
exalted ruler J S. Itlchardaon, of Cincin
nati, as ginnd sccretnry, and AV. A. Evnns,
of St. Joseph, Mo , as grand treasurer. Tho
support of tho Old Guard of tho Elks prac
tically mcana tho election of tho slato.
WHAT SOME CITIZENS MUST USE FOR OPEN-AIR SLEEPING
i;,N i-Nrei
&S&,
A rooftop, shed or cellar door furnish the only available couch for many
Thousands forsook walled rooms last night in the hope of
EYES OF TROOPS
LEFT BEHIND TURN
TOWARD BIG BEND
Guardsmen Eager to Follow
Comrades on Way for
Patrol Duty
THEYMVILL GET CHANCE
By CARL L. ZKISBERG
Evening Ledoer StaJT Correspondent
EL PASO. Tec. July 13. Who next?
That Is the question that Is on every lip
today nt Camp Pershing where the Penn
slvanla regiments await tho order to fol
low the two battalions of the Second and
the Tenth sent to the Big Bend district for
border patrol work Other detachments are
to follow
The departure of the senior battalions
of the two regiments tho First Pennsylva
nia troops to be sent toward possible fight
ing, has reacted on those left behind llko
'a molecule of beef on a ravenous wolf
Khakl-clad youngsters struggling with
heavy canvas cl.fe under the thought that
they are here while (heir more fortunato
comrades are out there to the southeast,
marching across rugged hills of sandstone,
lined with cedar and qcrlib oak, suffering
perhaps, but marching toward the bandit
threatened border. They grumble and they
swear. They are pot tin soldiers grumbling
The very fact that they squirm under in
activity proves that. Action Is what they
want, hardship, privation, anything for
action.
And action Is what they will get accord
ing to the program understood to be in store
for the guardsmen Battalion by battalion
they are to be sent out on border duty for
short periods qt time.
The heart of the camp Is out there with
the picked attachment, which slipped out
n two troop trains late last night with
many a "good luck" following the rear red
lights As the remaining 2d Regiment boys
shifted their tents to cover the ground whero
their senior battalion had slept, they thought
ot tha dMrt hllU over which their mates
were marching and the same thought filled
the. minds of the 10th Regiment soldiers as
CeaiUnud oa Fax Xwe Celiuas Six
TWO DEAD, SIX
PROSTRATED AS
No Relief in Sight as Torrid
Wave Continues
in City
POOR SUFFER GREATLY
Three Days A Record
of City' Heat Wave
Toitiy Wednesday TudV
8 n. m.... 80 78 75
9 a. m.... 83 83 78
10 a. m.... 80 85 80
11 n. m.... 87 87 82
Noon 89 89 85
1 p. m.... 00 89 87
2 p. m.... 00 91 87
3 p. m.... 90 88 89
4 p. m 88 90
5 p. m 88 88
Humidity 78 per cent.
; 5
N6 relief Is promised today from the ln
tense heat which Is sweeping tho city Two
deaths and six prostration- was tho rec
ord up to 2 o'clock thli afternoon. It is
fenred that many moro will succumb during
tho tiny. Only three places In tho United
State? wero hotter than this city. They
were Itnttcras, N C-i Galvciton nnd Port
land. Mo. An-omclnl dispatch from tho
Weather Bureau at Washington says tho
heat la spread from Maine to tho Ilocklcs
nnd most of the' country i sweltering.
Tho tempcraturo In this city nt 1 o'clock
this afternoon was 00 at tho nt the Weather
Bureau thermometer, which Is shaded on
tho roof of tho Poit Office Building, 143
feet above the street. In West Philadelphia
It was 91 In the shade.
In many sections of tho city' and espe
cially In tho slum districts tho distress Is
so Intense that Are plugs wero opened that
the children may be cooled by open-air
baths, scores of householders joined In this
humane movement nnd gave hoso baths to
tho children of the neighborhood.
At tho watering stations of the Pennsyl
vania Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Anmals and the Women's Society beveral
attendants wero kept busy all morning re
lieving horses suffering from the generally
humid conditions.
Joseph Oibrino, 9 months old, of "1321
Continued on race Two, Column Four
HOTEL RALEIGH FEE
DRIVES GUESTS FROM
TABLES AT SHORE
Flames Rouse Neighborhood
Near Hostelry at Atlantic, but
Damage Is Confirmed
to Attic
SERIOUS PANIC AVOIDED
ATLANTIC CITY, July 13. Sit engine
companies and two truck companies were
called to St Charles place In the uptown
district early this afternoon to fight a fire
in the Hotel Raleigh, a six-story structure
on St. Charles place, near the beach.
ninner was being served Inthe Raleigh
and other hotels round about, and the fire
apparatus coming down the street caused
pandemonium In the neighborhood
At the hotel office excited guests were
assured by a cool-headed young woman
rlerk that there was no danger.
"The fire s only on the roof." he said,
"and there Is no occasion for you to be
excited."
Most of the guests, however, hurrying to
their rooms, packed their possessions In
preparation for a hurried exit.
The fire was under control at 3 o'clock
this afternoon, the firemen having confined
the flames to the attlo In the northwest
wing of the hotel. How it started Is a
mystery, as there were neither Are. heating
pipes nor wires In that part of the struc
ture Hotel employes behaved admirably
throughout the excitement and averted any
thing upproachlng a panic, -ilarry Johnson,
an elevator boy, kept his car running and
bellboy? assisted guest In getting their ef
fects together
Miss Martha Kllpatrlc', of Philadelphia,
a guest with roms on the third tloor of the
hotel, took the fire coolly She packed her
trunk after hauUng It to the nearest stalre
In preparing for a hasty departure, then
eat upon It with her white poodle doe
cuddled up In her arms.
U. S. Will Not Have Summer
This Year, Priest Predicts
CLEVELAND, July 13. The
Rev. F. L. Odenbnch, scientist at
St. Ignatius College here, says the
United States isn't going to have
nny summer this year.
Father Odcnbach based his pre
diction on his discovery of 25 big
new spots on the sun.
HEHLIN ANNOUNCES REPULSE
OF RUSSIANS NEAR BUCZACZ
BEBlitN. July 13 On tho eastern front
tho forces of General von Bothmer drove
back the Hufslnnn nt Olcsza, capturing 400
prisoners, nn ofllclal statement Issued to
day by tho War Oftlco sas Following Is
tho text of tho statement:
"Eastern front General von Bothmer's
army by means of encircling counter-attacks
north of Olcsia and northwest of
Buczac?, drove back the Husslan troops,
taking over 400 prisoners."
CHILD STRUCK BY AUTO
Boy Dashed to Street and Severely
Injured While at Play
While playing In front of his homo Inst
evening, Samuel Konessky, 3 years old, of
319 South street, ran In front of an auto
mobile owned by E Mnhlmclster, of 1801
North 13th street Tho boy wns hurled to
(ho street, and Mnhlmelstcr took him to
tho Pennslvanla Ilotpltal, whero he was
found to be suffering from concussion of
the brain and possibly from a frncturo of
tho skull
Tho boy's parent took htm home. Mnhl
mclster surrendered to tho police and was
released on hli own recognizance.
Motorcyclist Held in Accident
Charles Singer, of 1.127 South fith street,
who Ia3t night, while riding a motorcyctc,
rtruck and knocked down Edith Belileld, of
2131 South 4th street, was this morning
held In $500 hall by Mnglntrate Bnkcr, nt
tho 1th street and Snjder nvenuo station,
for n hearing three weeks from today. The
girl's left leg was broken The accident
occurred at 4 th and Wlnton streets.
tenement occupants these nights.
benefiting by stray breezes.
AMERICANS PLAN
UNDER-SEA FLEET
TO AID GERMANY
Krupps Also Interested in
Scheme for Blockade
Running
LAKE TO BE ADVISER
BALTIMORE, July 13. A new mys
tery today projected Itself into the
plans for the German cargo submarine
Dcutschland's getaway when it became
known that a hydroaeroplane was
stored in the Dcutschland's guarded
wharf. It was assumed tills would be
used for reconnoitring purposes when
the Deutschland makes her dash
through the war-vessel lines off the
Virginia Capes.
COPENHAGEN, July 13. German
newspapers assert that 80 submarines
of the Deutschland class are now being
built and that 20 will be completed in
August.
BALTIMORE, July 13 Shattering of the
British starvation blockade will soon be
attempted by a fleet of giant undersea
freighters (lying the American Hag
Inspired by the success of the German
submarine trader Deutschland, Manager
Paul Hllken, of the Ozean Rhederel,
Deutschland owners. Is forming an enor
mous American corporation to make under
sea ships that wll( put the Deutschland In
the pigmy class. Simon Lake, submarine
Inventor, 'who fully a year ago predicted
In a scientific paper that "We shall prob
ably see some form of cargo-carrying sub
marine constructed as blockade runners,"
will act In an advisory capacity to the
new corporation and permit use of his
patents.
Hllken has given out the following state
ment of his plans
Captain Simon Lake, undoubtedly the
pioneer In the design of successful sub
marines, and P G Hllken. American
manager of the Ocean Rhtderet. Bre-
Centluued en face Tw, Celesta Three
QUICK NEWS
CHARLEY D00IN IS RELEASED TO ROCHESTER
CINCINNATI, O, July 13 Miuinger John ItfcCmw nnnounscd
todny that lie hntl lclenscd Cn.tc.hci Chalky Dooilt to the Rochester
club of the Intcmaticiinl Lcnguc. Doon hns lecently been mentioned (13
Manager of the Heds to succeed lletzofr who may go to the New Voik
Nationals.
THREE KILLED IN DUPONT MILL EXPLOSION
IIASKEIjL, N. J., July 13. Thice men weic killed nnd nearly
10 Injuicd by nn explosion in the bnllistite plant of the dlt Pent pow
der Works heie todny. The cause of the explosion 1ms not been a3cei
tnlnctl. PHILADELPHIA GETS NEXT C. E. CONVENTION
HAI1IUSBURR, July 13. The State Chilstinn Endeavor conven
tion will bo held in Philadelphia in 1018. The Executive Committee
of the State oiganlzatlon accepted the invitation of the big delegation
fioin that city nt tv session today.
EMPIRE CITY RACING RESULTS
I'list race, Empiic City, 2-ycai-olds, fillies, 5 furlongs
Hnthor, 104, Shilling', 0 to 10 and out, won; Queen of tho Writer,
100, McCahcy, 0 to 10 and out, second. Time, 1.01. Only two starters.
VILLA LEADING LARGE FORCE ON OJINAGA
SAN ANTONIO, Tc::., July 13. Anuy heatlnunitois todny ic
ceived definite word that a laige Vllliota foicc, presumably led by,,
Villa himself, is matching towaul Ojiunga.
GALE SWEEPS UP COAST OF CAROLINAS
WASHINGTON, July 13. A gale of consitleiablo intensity io
blowing inland and noithwaid fiom about 100 miles off the const or
the Caiolinns and stoim warnings today wcio flovn nil nlong1 tlie
coast fiom Virginia to Maine. Additional indio lcpoila ou the atoriu'n
dliccticn weio expected late this afternoon.
TWO TRAWLERS SUNK BY U-BOAT; CREWS SAFE
SCARBOROUGH, England. July 13 Tho trawlers Florence and Dalhouslo have
been etink by a German submarine. Tho crcvvB -vvoro landed here today.
'HUGHES' 'NOTIFICATION, JULY 31, PUBLIC CEREMONY
NEW YORK, July 13. Charles Evans Hughes will bo told that he Is tho Rcpub
Hcan candidate for President on July 31 nt 8 p. m , In Carneslo Hall. New York city.
Selection of U1I3 dato for tho notification ceremony was announced today by Senator
Warren O. Harding, chairman of the notification committee, following a conference
with Hughes nnd Chairman WIIIcox.
DEUTSCHLAND WILL CARRY NO AMERICANS ON RETURN
BALTIMORE, July 13 There vlll bo no International complications by reason
of the presence of Americans aboard the German undersea freighter Deutschland, it
was learned officially today. Manager Hllken stated positively that, under orders
from tho owners, she would carry no American citizens. .
$1,927,282.72 PAID INTO CITY TREASURY IN WEEK
The amount paid Into tho City Treasury during tho vvedlc ended last night was
J1.927.2S2.72 and tho payments amounted to J63G.037 38. This, with tho balance on
hand from the previous week, not including tho sinking fund account, leaves a
balance on hand of $9,-187,832.31, deposited in banks and trust companies.
AMERICAN SCHOONER LOST; CREW SAVED
WASHINGTON, July 13 Tho French Consul nt Progreso, Mexico, who Is rep
.esentlng American Interests there, reported to the State Department today that the
American schooner Cavlarn, owned by Saunders & Co., of Pensacola, Fla . was
wrecked on tho Alacr.imes reefs July 7. Tho captain nnd crew wero saved and
brought to Progreso.
ISHII NEW JAPANESE AMBASSADOR TO RUSSIA
TOKIO, July 13. Marquis Ishll has been appointed Japanese Ambassador to
Russia In connection with tho recent treaty of alliance contracted betvveen Japan
and Russia.
U. S. TROOPS SEEK SANTO DOMINGO BANDITS
WASHINGTON, July 13. Rear Admiral Caperton, commanding American
marines In Santo Domingo, today reported to the Navy Department that Ameri
can foiccs had started on an extended bandit hunt In the vlclnl'-' of Santiago.
Pendleton teported that a large pait of the Dominican Governaent troops had
been disbanded since the Amei leans arrived to protect the city.
JURY DISAGREES IN FIGHT PICTURE TRIAL
SYRACUSE, N. Y July 13. The trial of James J. Johnson, manager of Madison
Square Garden, New York, and five others on charges of bringing pictures of tho
WIHard-Johnson fight Into this country ended in a disagreement today. The case
went to the Jury last night and this morning the jurots reported they were unable
to reach a verdict. The Government contended the photographing of the original
films on the Canadian border was infringement of the law prohibiting the importa
tion of the films.
KING SUSPENDS MUNITIONS WORKERS' BANK HOLIDAYS
LONDON, July 13 Premier Asqulth In announcing the suspension by royal
proclamation of the August bank holidays. In the House of Commons this afternoon,
revealed the determination of the Allies to continue the great Somme offensive for
months, if necessary, to achieve final victory. The suspension of workers' holidays
is for the purpose of Insuring a steady supply of munitions.
WOMAN, AGED 80, HIT BY AUTO AFTER COLLISION
Mrs. Margaret Drugan, 80 years old. -J605 York road, was dangerously injured
this morning, when struck by an automobile driven by Henry Arnhold. 3712 North
12th street, at Broad and Courtland htreets. She was taken to St, Luke' Hospital,
where it was said her skull may have been fractured, Arnhold. explaining the acci
dent, said that Nicholas Martin, 3225 Kitt street, a driver ot" a wagon, collided tvith
his automobile as both were driving bouth In Broad street. The collision caused
him to lose control of the car. Arnhold and Martin were arrested. Magistrate
Mecleary held them under $500 ball each, to await the result of Mrs. Drugan'u
injuries.
24 DIE OF INFANTILE PARALYSIS IN 24 HQURS
NEW YORK, July 13 Twenty-four deaths from infantile paralysis for the last
24 hours was the ofllclal report today, an Increase of seven over the day before.
Of these, IS occurred in Brooklyn. There are now 682 cases of the disease being
treated in hospitals, most of them in Kings County. "Only 117 new cases were re
ported in tho last 21 hours.
SIX PERSONS MISSING IN BROOKLYN EXPLOSION
NEW YORK. July 13. Six penons are reported mlsjing and unaccounted for
following an ammonia explosion, wrecking a four-story building on Sumner avenue,
Brooklyn, today Martin Schmidt, a butcher, occupying the lower floor, his four
assistants and customer who was in the shop are missing It la feared they were
caught when the building collapsed Eight other persons were, injured.
-.
SHARK KILLED;
PART OF BOY'S
BODY INSIDE
May Be Lad Who Was
Slain by Fish in
Matawan
FISH WAS 11 FEET LONG
AND WEIGHED 300 LBS.
Hunt for Man-eaters Con
tinues in Vicinity Where
Two Perished
RESORTS PLAN SAFETY
Devise Means to Combat tho
Growing Menace to Bathers
in Surf
NEW YORK, July 13. A shark, In
whose stomach was part of a human
body, was killed this afternoon in
Matawan Creek, New Jersey, not far
from the spot where a man and a boy
were killed by a shark yesterday. Tho
man-cater was 11 feet long and weighed
more than 300 pounds.
The body in the shark's stomach is
beiitved to have been that of Lester
Still well, the 12-year-old boy who was
dragged to his death while bathing at
Matawan on Wednesday. The other
victim was Stanley Fisher, who was at
tacked while trying to recover the Still
well boy's body.
The shark was killed near Newport.
As soon as it had been put "to death
it was ripped open and its stomach
examined. '
Shark hunting has been in progress
alt along the Jersey coast since yester
day. Horror is spreading all along tho
New Jersey coast at the unprecedented
invasion of man-eating sharks. Thcro
is in some places an almost hysterica)
fear of thcrbathinjr. beaches and even
inland creeks and rivers aro being1
avoided. Instead of going into tho
water, persons are watching along the
shores for sharks and fishermen are go
ing out hunting for them.
With the latest report from Mata
wan, N. J., that a shark made its way
into Matawan creek, killed a man and
a boy and mangled another boy, tho
terror has spread. That sharks should
appear in such places as Beach Haven
and Spring Lake was shocking enough
to the countryside, but now that even
creeks nre proved unsafe, the horror
has increased.
Never before has a shark been known
to go into a creek. They had never
been known about the Atlantic beaches
until the attack upon bathers at Spring
Lake and Beach Haven. Where next
their hunger and ferocity will take
them is a conjecture. " And coast
habitues are taking no chances. ,
Experts everywhere are studying he
situation. They are realjzing that
something mu3t bo done to keep ths
sharks away.
At some places plans nre being dis
cussed. Whether to build piers about
the more popular beaches or just what
means are necessary to avoid the in
crease of the growing number of shark
attacks is the problem now.
Guards in motorboata are being sta
tioned nlong the outer lines of many
bathing beaches.
" Nets, harpoon parties, fishermen gen
erally and cordons of life guards jn
motorboats are among the methods
taken to rid the beaches and waters
entering into ocean bays of the ferocious
fish.
MATAWAN1. N. J.. July 13 A hug
shark that followed the wake of a fisher
man's boat Into Matawan Creek yetT'T'
killed a man and a boy. The former
had entered the water In the hope of
rescuing the other from tha grasp of th
sen. monster. Still another boy wu so
mangled that he may die The body of
the first lct!m, Lester Stlltwell, 12 yeara
old, has not been recovered. The marf who
attempted to rescue him W Stanley Fisher,
died In the Long Branch Hospital after
surgeons amputated what tha shark had
left of his right leg Joseph punu, New
York boy. Is In the New Brunswick Hospl.
tal with part ot his right lecc torn away.
Just before his death, Fisher who Is a,
strong swimmer, told surgeons a, dram-tlo
story of his struggle with the sea rover
and of Stlllwell'a death. He declared the
shark was fully eight feet long and
said that It rpust have torn the body
of StlUwell to pieces. At any rqta,
fUnermen who spent all afternoon and
most of the night dragging tho creek tot
the body of the nrst victim ciuld And na
trace of it
Huge nt wertf -t for the shark, bat
experienced men declared It probably Ul
the creek with the tide
90TH SAW SHARK
Dunn, who lire in Brooklyn, told frujv
gtis that he saw the abitk that bit Mm,,
fiyefaaj" 1 in .
ill - m lfWr r fry n.-. -rl
