' - - V ? .
oontinS7wJ^Sht an-J to- k /"N U| "*>??? P * '? ^OWW?
morrow; winds, becoming M I W W If
I Temperature for the past twenty-four I T IT 9 7 gl IT i |'l j I 1/Ttf Within the Horn*' |
ending' at 2 p.m.: Highest, ^B | .1 H V H H Br H H H H CB H M H H /HBM^ ^B
H H H H H ^mmm^m
? " -zrr= - I Iwan Wet Clnekflw, Month ef Jut,
CLOSING NEW YORK STOCKS PAGE IS. I *^F lslt, Dell? ATCIUt, TI.Mtl lutar, SWOT.
~~NoT 20,378. v WASHINGTON, D. C., THURSDAY, JULY 13, 1916-TWENTY-TWO PAGES. ~ ONE CENT.
. ' ? ? ? _'_ - T
HALF-AND-HALF PUT
BACK IN D. C. BILL
Provision Restored by Senate
Committee Without a Dissenting
Vote.
NO DELAY IS EXPECTED
IM RFPflRT DF MFASIIRE
Must Give Way to Other Legislation.
However, Before It Can
Be Considered.
The half-and-half plan of appropriating
for the District was
restored to the District appropriation
bill by the Senate committee
on appropriations today. This
was in accordance with the recommendations
of the subcommittee.
Not a dissenting voice was
raised when the question was put
in committee to strike from the
bill the House provision abolishing
the half-and-half plan and
restoring the language of the
present law.
The full committee did not
complete its work on the bill as
reported to it this morning by the
subcommittee, but adjourned for
luncheon and met again at 2:30
o'clock.
Understood to Be Fair.
_ While the details of the bill as
.amended by the committee have not yet
been made public, it is understood that
the committee has added millions for
the District and has been fair and gen?
erous in its treatment of the National
Capital.
That the Senate will support the committee
in its recommendations that the
half-and-half plan be restored was the
opinion expressed by members of the
Senate when it became known what the
action of the committee had been.
Heport Without Delay.
The committee expects to finish its
consideration of the bill this afternoon
and to report the measure to the Senate
immediately. How soon the bill i
will be taken up for consideration in j
the 8enate, however, is another matter, j
The navy bill is now the unfinished :
business of the Senate and it will be
followed by the army appropriation
bllL This may mean that the District
bill will not come up in the Senate for
another two weeks.
If that is the case, it is very likely
that another continuing resolution will
have to be passed for the District government.
since the resolution under
which the District government is nowoperating
expires at the end of the
month. This will be true in any event
should there be a long contest between
the Senate and House over the District
bill after the Senate has passed it and
it has been sent to conference.
SHRIXER3 ELECT OFFICERS.
Competitive Drills of Patrols Feature
the Day's Doings at Buffalo.
VTW A TO X* V .Tul v 1.1 ThA
ins session of the Imperial Council.
Nobles of thf Mystic Shrine, was held
today, although the festivities of the
forty-second annual meeting will not
end until Saturday. The principal business
today was the election of officers
and the selection of next year's meeting
place. Following the usual custom.
all the officers were advanced. H.
F. Niedringhau* of St. Fouls moving up
from deputy to imperial potentate.
Minneapolis, it was said by high officials.
Tss practically sure to get -re,
ne~t convention.
Tne spectacular today was
the com?-?? !it. v< drills of patrols
frcm j- or. -h.?:. t^-nplrs.
BOMBAY 3aES MES. BESAKT.
Tbeosophicai leader Banned for India
Hofne Enie Activity.
LONDON. July 13.?Mr*. Annie
Becant, one of the leaders of the movement
for home rule for India, has been
prohibited under the defense of India
act from entering the Bombay presidency,
eeys % Bombay dispatch to the
Exchange Telegraph Company.
Mrs. Annie Be*ant was *!e Led president
of the Theosophm&I Society of
Ix>ndon in 1507. She has ma le several
lecture tours in America. Her .activities
iti the India home rule movement have
not been gex:era!ly reported m this
country.
I I DAY IK COKGEESS. j
Senate:
Mf ?t 10 a.m.
Begnr. debate on $215,000/ 00 n*- I
v?! bill.
<Jomrr'Tc-* committee democrats i
agree ;o provision in chipping
bill permitting gov?nvr>e:it ships
x-j tntvr coastwise trade.
Hoiaiei
A>t ?.t noon.
Cc.r>:.le.*eu general dam bin for .
roj'ular.ng wa ?.er power rights
J and rates.
j Omnibus public building bill, i
1 aggregating .approximately $32.- :
?Otf.O00 i:i authorisations conii
plered In committee.
! W;.\3 and rr.nar.b committee ?ai
voranly reported bill permitting
export*:.on of y in m bond in oilier
than original packages. to enable
bottling r.'-re instead of
abroad.
DISTRICT IN C0NGR7.SS.
L Senate i
Senate appropriations committee
today rtruck from the District
appropriation bill the House
rider abolishing the half-and-half s
tz ,
HUGHES IS EAGER
TO GET1NT0 FIGHT
Active in Making Plans for
Vigorous Campaign in
Close States.
BY N. O. MESSENGER.
NEW YORK, July 13.?Two
reports in circulation in political
circles in Washington explode
upon investigation here. The !
first was that the republican war
horses, sniffing the battle from
afar and eager for the fray, feared
that Candidate Hughes was not
jumping into the ring quickly
enough and was mayhap lacking
in aggressiveness. The other
I was that "the bull moose who rej
fused to follow the colonel were ,
II rooping into the democratic game ,
i preserve in numbers.
! There's "nothing to it."' in ,
j either case, nothing for republi- i
j cans to worry about n^r demo- ,
j crats to chortle over.
If any one imagines that Mr. Hughes
! is not ready and eager for a fight he
I and a fio-Vit that ,
will satisfy the most sanguinary dis!
posed unless it might be a Jess Wil- *
j lard. He has been taking his time i
I about getting ready, because he emerg- r
ed from a sudden doffing of the judicial
er'min^ to don the war bonnet and l
strike the trail and he had to get c
together some kind of an organization. ^
Eager to Get Into Fight.
The Star correspondent has talked *"
with the republican candidate and can C
report at first hand that Mr. Hughes ^
is fairly honing to get into the battle.
He will open hostilities in his 2
speech of acceptance at the end of p
this month and will then make a cross' ontinept
trip to get acquainted with S
the electorate. This will be but the .
beginning. Thereafter he will be 1
wherever the fight is hottest and appear
in the state's where the contest *
promises to be closest. *
Careful inquiry into the extent of
the threatened bull moose flop to the ^
democrats disparages its importance.
The county progressive committee is g
making the most noise, but politicians
here teil me that since Col. Roosevelt, \
Oscar Straus and George W. Perkins
went over to .Hughes, the county r
progressive organization is discouraged
and it is doubted if it can swing a
thousand vofes.
As to the bull moore generally. It is
| indicated that they will herd with the
| regulars in good faith. While the repub- *
i lican campaign committee was in the h
i making the bull moose were rather in- d
: sistent upon a predominant represent*j
tion. They expected upon coming back c
i to have a regular fatted calf killed for a
j them.
| Finally they had to be told that "there p
! ain't no such animal." and. realizing it. n
j are taking their share graciously. There j,
i is the utmost good feeling between the
: progressives ana regulars. in iact, mere
j is no such distinction; they are all pro- E
gressives now. n
Standpatters Are Left Out.
Jt will be noted that Senator Penrose,
former Senator W. Murray Crane and
other standpatters were omitted from the
i ampaign committee membership. The
progressives were much pleased at this.
At that, however, I think that if one
wanted to be close to the campaign he
would do well to keep in touch with these '
gentlemen. a
As you have fceen by the papers. Cor- a
m-lius Hliss, son of the late Cornelius N. c
j Hliss. long time treasurer of the old
party, is to be treasurer. He will cover
j ?he east and Fred Upham of Chicago the
western field, so that between them it will
be difficult for any likely contributor to
! the campaign fund to escape. Mr. Bliss is u
i very popular and is a fine young fellow, ii
.< trong in the mercantile world. Fred Up- t
I ham, of course, has^ "been down the towpath
before" and knows all the plum trees *,
along the way. h
Candidate Hughes put in yesterday and
, today conferring with politicians from
everywhere and working like a nailor. c
Mr. Hughes is easy to see and is most 1'
affable and cordial in manner, surprising j.
i tncieby some of his callers from a disj
t.ance who had been told that he was 8
a istere. Mr. fr/ghes the citizen is quite I
difrVrent from Mr. Justice Hughes the t
.' "ig-.irt judge. Then, too, the knowledge
that no longer has the power to send
| one up f r life for contempt of court, with t
: no appeal save to heaver., contributes to a
c . - of mind and composure in his r
! preMnoe. t
! _ t
i Discnuiertinjj to ucnoorats. c
It !.-> qu:te evident that the acceptance a
| by s. group of prominent progressives of J
places on the republican campaign com- ^
; mittee io very disconcerting to the demo- i
j cratd. It is raid here that the democratic r
j national organization may retort by plac- v
| ing some Bull M'joscrs on their campaign
i committee. *
I There is one way, however, in which *
the democrats confidently expect to profit *
b> hio flt-'e t'.on cf Bull Moose following 1
: from Col. lioosevclt's herding. If Judge j 1
; Sea:,u:*y decides to accept the democratic ;c
Tiomination fcr governor it is assured that | f
ne wiii have large support from progres- i*
The democrats believe it possible to \
-If ct a democratic governor in New York,
: even though tho state should go republli
'-an on presidency. They are especially
hopeful if Judge fcJeabury runs, because {
i regular democrats, the Hearst party, the
ar.d probably support of orl
gar.ised labor.
Whitman Has No Walkover.
! Gov. Whitman, according: to careful
! observers here, has no walkover for re;
'lection. unless Mr. Hughes should have
, so ha landslide as to pull him through,
.j i igc Scabury still in doubt as to
j; . wir.tr. He has twelve years, at $10,-1
. per annum, ahead of him on the
; ourt of appeals. Some democrats were!
i no outraged over the republicans "rob-i
; bit * the bench" in nominating Mr.
! Hughes that they hardly see how Judge!
i .-v-abnry can run for governor. Hut,
by and" large, nobody gives a rap about
' robbing the bench in either case, and
; that issue will be very little heard of in
! the campaign. It is predicted.
| There is much undercurrent of talk
for Col. Roosevelt for the United States
sen&torshlp nomination. The colonel is
: t:d to be disinclined to hear to It. but
they are keeping after him about it. A
great many of his friends want him in
the Senate if this is to be a republican
I year.
Former Representative William M.
raider of Brooklyn has the nomination
clinched, it is believed, barring Col.
Roosevelt's possible candidacy. Mr.
Calder is reported as saying to his
frtev.ds that if the colonel wants the
nomination he will step aside in a Jiffy
and swing his friends into line for-hixor
l&Wfa - ?.: * ft . U>i * . l . . * ? it>_.* >
FIRST FIELD WORK
GYD.CJUTIAIN
Already Tanned by Four Days'
Exposure to Intense Sun
at Bisbee, Ariz.
THEIR ZEAL AND APTNESS
COMMENDED BY REGULARS
wo sicKness in camp, uespue ^ontinned
Rain?Colored Battalion
Busy Drilling.
by j. crosby McCarthy.
Staff Correspondent of The Star.
BISBEE, Ariz., July 13.?Already
tanned by four days' exposure
to the intense sun that
shines here, even in the rainy season,
land-broke after their week
aboard a swaying train, and somewhat
acclimated ? the District
signal and Field Hospital Corps
were called out for their first
actual field work here today.
ti : v, 4-t,
nicy <irc using nuiac& ui un.
22d Infantry (regulars), who are
xcupying the same camp-site,
md are getting new experience
or them in drilling across a dryis-powdef
sandy plain and doing
signal service in the highly rariied
atmosphere?at an altitude of
5,500 feet. Capt. Oliver C. Terry.
:ommanding the Signal Corps,
vith Lieuts. George M. Landis
md Russell M. MacLennan, is
jutting the Signal Corps through
;ome pretty stiff practice, that
hey may become hardened to this
dimate as soon as possible, that
heir "sight" may become accusotned
to the glarinb nd blinding
land sweeps?for they are to be
vhipped into shape ready for imnediate
service, if necessary.
Hospital Hen Busy Drilling.
Maj. Charles H. Bowker, commanding
he Field Hospital Corps, has his outfit
ard at work on stretcher drills, enurance
test marches, and when they
ome back wearied to their tents they
re given class work on the neculiar !
hysical wear of this country on the
len and how to combat its weakening
nfluences.
Already the zeal and aptness of the
)istrict contingent has won the cojn- \
lendation of the regulars in camp. The
olunteer militia and the men of the
egular service are fraternizing hapily,
and the citizen soldiers are leaning
many valuable tricks of camp life
nd makeshifts of border duty from
he regulars.
There has been continuous rain since
he District troops made camp Sunday
vening, and their first onerous duties
^ere to fit themselves out with box
ents as a safeguard against the storm,
'he officers in charge are making all
rrangements for a prolonged stay here
nd there is every indication that this
amp is to be semi-permanent.
Destination of Third Unknown.
The fact that the 22d Infantry (reglars)
is making permanent camp here
9 taken by many as an indication that
he 3d Regiment of Infantry from the
)istrict militia is not going to be sent
lere. Others argue that this is conidered
by the War Department offiials
to be one of their most strategic
ocations, and that preparations are
eing made for establishing a strong
ruard here both of regulars and the
)iatrict militia. The very fact of staionmg
the 1st Separate Battalion (colred)
at Naco. the pumping station for
he Blsbee and Warren water supply
nd the nearest point on this side of
he border to ti>e valuable and exensive
Cananea mining interests, is
aken as supporting this theory. .Still
>thers intimate that as more recent
tdvices from Mexico show that Villa
pparently is bent on further border
aids in the Big Bend area of Texas,
ollowing its censorship program the
iVar Department may be allowing the
mprc3sion to prevail that the 3d Reginent
;s going to Bisbee. and that they
ill, instead, be sent toward Boquillaa.
Despite the continued rain there has
>een absolutely no 3ickneas in camp.
^v?.n fi'.icrhf r?f inHUnncirio..
o tho heat, change in water and tire
-arifled atmosphere have been e-:ur>risingly
few. This has encouraged the
nllccrs very much, as 1*. was expected
hat, especially after taking the inocuations,
a large number of the soldiers
vould be sick as soon as they reach:d
the camp.
Scenery and Mines New to Men.
The scenery here 8nd the mining acivlties
that are the big business of
his territory are new to most of the
nen. They are greatly interested, and
ire planning to see as much of the
nines as they can. The mine blasts
gave the troopers something of a scare
it first, as they sounded like a hostile
ittack with "Big Berthas," but they
ire getting used to it now, and really
snjoy the warlike tone it gives their
:amp.
The 1st Separate Battalion, at Naco,
las been doing daily drill work ever
dnce it arrived. Maj. James E. Walter
is determined his men shall be
eady for any service they may be
.ailed upon to perform. "They must be
-eady to live up to their reputation,
rhey must be ready for duty, without
ixcuses,' he said. The soldierly efti:iency
of the colored battalion has
seen impressed upon the regulars,
nany of whom visited the Naco camp.
'Those boys will give a good accoupt of
:hemselves if. they are sent over the
>order to Cananea," officers of the 22<i
egulars have remarked.
The general feeling in Bisbee and
Warren is of security. A border raid
s not feared, for this locality has
lever suffered from such raids. The
relief is that a force eventually will
iave to be sent from here to protect
ind probably to fight for the GreeneUananea
nfcnes. thirty miles over the
?order, whte large American property
right* and^ive* may beat stake.
Naturalized Citi
Even if They.
President Wt
President Wilson, at the citi;
on naturalized citizens being lov;
The President's speech was a
"1 have come here for the simple purpose
of expressing my very deep in
I terest In what these conferences are
intended to attain. It is not fair to
I the great multitude of hopeful men and
| women who press into this country
from other countries that we should
i leave them without that friendly and
j intimate Instruction that will enable
I them very soon after they come to find
out what America is like at heart and
what America is intended for among!
the nations of the world. I believe that
the chief school that these people must
attend after they get here is the school
which all of us attend, which is furnished
by the life of the community in ;
which we live and the nation to which
we belong. It has been a very touching
thought to me sometimes to think
of the hopes which have drawn these
people to America. I have no doubt
that many a simple soul has been
thrilled by that great statue standing
in the harbor of New York and seeming
to lift the light of liberty for the
guidance of men, and T can imagine
that they have expected here something
ideal in the treatment they would receive,
something ideal in the laws
which they would have to live under,
and it has caused me many a time to
turn upon "myself the eye of examination
to see whether there burned in me
the true light of American spirit which
' they expected to find here.
U. S. Must Be Finest Example.
"It is easy, my fellow citizens, to
communicate physical lessons, but it is
very difficult to communicate spiritual
lessons. America was intended to be a
spirit among the nations of the y.-orld,
and it is the. purpose of conferences
like these to find out the best way to
Introduce the newcomers to this spirit,
and by that very irfterest In them to
enhance and purify in ourselves the
thing that ought to make America
great, and not only ought to make her
great, but ought to make her exhibit
a spirit unlike any other nation in the
world. I have never been among those
who felt comfortable in boapting of the
! superiority of America over other countries.
The way to cure yourself of that,
is to travel in other countries and find
j out how much of nobility and character
find nne eniprpiin^ ui'-if i? everywnere
in the world. The most that. America
can hope to do is to show itself to be
the finest example, not the only example,
of the things that ought to benefit
and promote the progress of the
world.
"And so my interest in this movement
is as much an interest in ourselves as
in those whom we are trying to Americanize.
because if we are genuine
Americans they cannot avoid the infection.
whereas if we are not genuine
Americans there will he nothing to infect
them with, and no amount of
teaching the Constitution, and I find
very few persons understand i{, no
amount of dwelling upon the idea of;
liberty and justice will accomplish the
object we have in view unless we our-i
selves illustrate the idea of justice and j
liberty. And so my interest in this;
movement is a twofold interest.
Aliens' Ideas of Loyalty.
"I believe it will assist us to become
self-conscious in respect of the fundamental
ideals of American life. When
you ask a man to be loyal to a
government, if he comes from some foreign
country, his idea is that he is expected
to be loyal to a certain set of
Feeding and Clothing I
The commissary depai
plies for troops are procu
it means to feed an army c
day. Read this article inu
zens Must Be Li
Are Not Pleased
ilson Says in Coi
t
jenship convention today, asserted
il, even if they do not approve wl
s follows:
| persons like a ruler or a party set in
(authority over him. but that is not the
i American idea. Our idea is that he is to
j be loyal to certain objects in life, and
'the only reason he .has a President.
Congress legislature and a judiciary is
J that the community shall have instruI
mentalities by which to promote those
j objects.
"It is a co-operative organization, ex;
pressing itself in this Constitution, expressing
itself in these laws, intending to
express itself in the exposition of these
laws by the courts, and the idea of America
is not so much that some one shall
be restrained and punished by the law,
as to be instructed and guided by the law. I
That is the reason why so many hopeful
reforms come to grief. A law cannot work ,
until it Expresses the spirit of the com- j
munity for which it is enacted, and if |
you try to enact into a law what ex- (
presses only the spirit of a small coterie j
or a small minority you know, or, at any i
rate, you ought to know, beforehand that
it isn't going to work and that the object
, of the law is that there written upon
j those pages the citizen should red.d the
i record of the experiences of that state
and nation, what they have concluded it
is necessary for them to do. because of
the life they have lived and the elements
I in that life. soA.hat we ought to be careful
to maintain a government at which the
immigrant can look with the closest
scrutiny, and to which he should be at
liberty to address this question.
People Here Human as Elsewhere.
"You declare this to be a land of liberty
and equality and justice. Haye
you made it so by your law? We ought
to be able in our schools, in our night
schools, and in every other method of
instructing these people to show them
that tnat has been our endeavor. We
can't conceal from him long that we
are just as human as any other nation;
that we are just as selfish; that
there are just as many mean people
here as any where ^lse; that there are
just as many people here that will take
advantage of other people as you can '
find In other countries; there are just
fas many cruel people, just as many
people heartless when it comes to maintaining
and promoting their own interest.
but that our object is to get these
people in harness and see to it that
they do no damage, and not be allowed
to bring calamity upon a nation whose
object is spiritual and not ifiaterial.
"America has built up a great body of
wealth. America has become, from a
physical point of view, one of the most
I powerful nations in the world, which if it
took the pains to do so could build that
power up Into one of the most formidable
instruments in the world, one of the most
formidable instruments of force, but
which has no other idea than to use its
force for ideal objects, and not for selfaggrandizement.
We have been disturbed
recently, my fellow-citizens, by certain
symptoms which have shown themselves
in our body politic. Certain men, I have
never believed a great number, who, born
in other lands, have in recent months
thought more of those lands than they
have of the honor and Interest of fehe
government under which they are now
living. They have even gone so far as to
draw apart in spirit and in organization
from the rest of us to accomplish some
special object of their own. I am not
here going to enter any criticism of these
people, but I want to say this?that such
things as that is absolutely incompatible
with the fundamental idea of loyalty, and
that loyalty is not a self-pleasing virtue.
I am not bound to be loyal to the United
States to please myself. I am bound to be
loyal to the United States because I live
under its laws and am its citizen, and
whether it hurts me or whether it benefits
me I am obliged to be loyal.
Loyalty Means Self-Sacriflce.
/'Loyalty means nothing unless It has
in heart the absolute principle of selfOur
Army in the Field
"tment -at work; how supred
and distributed; what
>f J5P,ooo.men for | jingle
Ihe Sunday Star,*?
???T
5'''''
iyal to U. S.,
' With Affairs,
nvention Speech
that the United States must insist
vat is done.
I sacrifice. Loyalty means that you ought
to be ready to sacrifice every interest
you have, and life itself, if your country
calls upon you to do so. And that is the
sort of loyalty which ought to be inculcated
into these newcomers.
"That they are not to be loyal so long
as they are pleased, but having once
entered into this sacred relationship
they are bound to be loyal, whether
they are pleased or not, and that loyalty,
which is merely self-pleasing, is
only self-indulgence and selfishness.
And no man has ever risen to the real
stature of spiritual manhood until he
i has found that it is finer to serve some
one else than it is to serve himself.
I These are the conceptions which we
I ought to teach the newcomers into our
| midst, and we ought to realize that the
; life of every one of us is part of the
schooling and ,that we cannot preach
j loyalty unless we set the example, and
that we cannot profess the things with
any influence upon others unless we
practice them also, so that this process
of Americanization is going to be a
process of self-examination, purification,
a process of rededification to the
things that America represents and is
proud to represent, and it takes a great
deal more courage and steadfastness,
my fellow-citizens, to represent ideal
things than to represent anything else.
It is easy to lose your temper and hard
to keep it. It is easy to strike, and
sometimes very difficult to refrain from
striking, and I think you will agree
with me that we are most justified in
being proud to do the things that are
hard to do and not the things that
are easy. You do not settle things
quickly by taking what seems to be the
quickest way to settle them. You may
make the application just the more
profound and inextricable, and.
fore, what I believe, America should
exalt above everything- else is this.
Sovereignty of t'noughtfulness and
sympathy and vision, as against the
grosser impulses of mankind. No nation
can live without vision, and no
vision will exalt a nation except the
vision of real/-lib#?rty and real justice
and purity of conduct."
THOUSANDS OF ELKS
PARADE IN BALTIMORE
Final Sessions of the Grand Lodge
Will Be Held This
Afternoon.
BALTIMORE, Md.. July 13.?The' big
event of the Grand Lodge reunion of
Elks was the street parade today, in
which many thousands of menjtfers of
the order from all over the United
States marched' to the music of thirtyfive
bands. Grand Esquire Robert J.
Lawlor of Niagara Falls was the chief
marsnal. Floats and spectacular designs
abounded in the demonstration.
Final sessions of the Grand Lodge
will be held this afternoon, after which^
there will be a band contest, and Elks'
drill teams will engage in competition.
A resolution passed at yesterday's
session put the order on record as
being "ready, willing and prepared" to
shield from want the families of any
of its members who shall go to the
front "in defense of American honor."
The authority vested in the board of
grand trustees to give a premium of
$2,500 to the successSnl'author and composer
of a national anthem that shall
be adopted by the Congress of the United
States was rescinded by another
resolution which was adopted.
Services to England Rewarded.
LONDON. July 13.?Lieut. Col. Arthur
Hamilton Lee. secretary to the minister
of munitions, has been created a knight
commander of the Bath in recognition of
his efforts In connection with the supply
of war munitions.
ONE DAY ADDS 24
TO PLAGUE'S TOLL
Slight Decrease in Number of
New Cases of Infantile
Paralysis.
MEDICAL MEN NOW TURN
TO SEARCH FOR THE GERM
Towns Hear New York City Befnsing
to Permit Children to Cross
Their Borders.
- NEW YORK, July 13.?A
slight decrease in the number of
new cases and a marked increase
in the rumber of deaths during
the last twenty-four hours in the
epidemic of infantile paralysis
was shown in the daily bulletins
issued by the department of
health at noon today. During the
twenty-four hours preceding 10
o'clock this morning twenty-four
children died from the plague and
there were 117 new cases in the
greater city.
New York city health officers said
today that they were doing their best
to prevent the spread of infantile paralysis
from this city to other communities.
Residents of infected districts
here have been warned that they will
encounter stern quarantine measures
if they leave the city.
List of Infected Houses.
Out-of-town health authorities have
been asked to report any persons arriving
from infected areas in New York
city. To enable other towns and cities
to do this the local board of health is
distrbuting broadcast lists of addresses
where cases of the disease have been
found here.
The New Jersey state health department
last night reported the total
number of cases in the state as sixty,
with eleven new cases for the day. The |
state health department has announced f
that it would not declare a quarantine ,
agafnit New York city, but would
leave that to the local boards. From
the office of the attorney general of
New Jersey came an opinion that the
state cannot keep out children under
fourteen years of age if they are
healthy.
Children Are Turned Back.
Many of the New Jersey towns nearest
New York, however, have not hesitated
to turn back children, not only
those who come from New York, but I
those from other places. At Edgewater,
a small town on the west bank of the
Hudson, opposite northern Manhattan,
the police not only guarded the New
York ferry, but established a motor
boat patrol to prevent children from
crossing the river in other craft.
In Connecticut and New York state
towns immediately north of this city
health and.police officers are meeting
all incoming trains and trolley cars and
even stopping automobiles and turning
back all children under sixteen.
Search for Disease Germ.
Mayor Mitchel, local health authorities
and eminent physicians who are
co-operating with them believe that
every known physical precaution has
been taken to check the epidemic. The
physicians now will concentrate their
attention upon laboratory work in an
effort to isolate the germ of the disease
and find a preventive or cure. In this
connection there i3 great interest in
a meeting to be held in the rooms of
the Xew York Academy of Medicine tonight
at which papers will be read by
experts on infantile paralysis. Questioned
about a report that a New York
physician had discovered the germ of
the disease, Health Commissioner Emerson
replied: "If any one knows more
about that than Dr. Simon Flexner of
the Rockefeller Institute it's news to
me and I believe that I would have had
a tip before now."
Fears More Serious Epidemic.
WATERTOWN, N. Y., July 13.?Dr.
H. L. K. Shaw, head of the division of
child hygiene, New York state health department,
said today he feared that the
epidemic of infantile paralysis in New
York state would grow more serious.
"I do not wish to be an alarmist," said ,
Dr. Shaw, "but in all past epidemics the
disease has become more virulent as the \
summer progresses. August and Septem- }
ber are the worst months, the high mark
being reached in September usually."
Dr. Shaw spoke at a meeting of the
Jefferson County Medical Society at Alex- i
i andria Bay. In his address he stated that >
Dr. Simon Flexner of New York is the
man who has isolated the germ of infantile
paralysis and told how he, with
other physicians, had seen the germ under 1
a microscope a week ago. i
The speaker said that the disease
could not be traced to a milk supply, 1
but that the only point of entry was 1
the nose, and that it could not come 1
through the mouth or through the
veins. Flies might be carriers as well t
as human beings, he said. He added 1
that if a cordon was drawn around J
New York for two weeks and every J
child was refused exit the epidemic s
could De stopped, "but there would be i
civil war if we did such a thing," he
declared.
The most serious aspect of the disease,
Dr. Shaw pointed out, was that
no one can diagnose it until paralysis
comes, saying. "I defy any one to diagnose
it accurately before that stage."
System of, Notification Starts.
The federal fight against the spread
of infantile paralysis, epidemic in New
York city, developed today into public
health service plans for immediate
operation of a system of notification
under which health officers of other
cities will be notified of the departure
of all children under fifteen years of
age from New York.
Official notice also wad sent today to
heads of all railroads and steamship
companies running out of New York ,
City directing their attention to laws
prohibiting the transportation of persons
suffering from Infectious diseases.
Charles E. Banks, senior surgeon in
the public health service, is on the way
from Milwaukee to New York ,to take
charge of the government's work there,
and a dozen other surgeons have been
instructed to hold themselves llreadlness
to go to New York, it teamed
nnrumy %
FIGHT STILL RAGES
ONSOMMEFRONT;
CHANGESARE FEW
British, Having Regained Los!
Ground, Organize forJa t
Uaui Hffoncii/n
IVVVV WIIVIIMIfU? ?. . J
SEVENTH GREAT ASSAULT J
AGAINST VERDUN IN VAIN
French Beat Back Masses of German
Infantry on Right Bank
of the Meuse.
ARTILLERY DUELS KEEP UP
Heavy Bombardments Are Reported
All Along the Orgeat Battle
Front in the North
of France.
- LONDON, July 13, 3:32 p.m.
?Fighting continues at various
points along the battle frotit in
the region of the River Somme, in
-France, but there has been no
change in the situation on any
part 01 the British line since the
report last night from Gen. Haig
that he had recaptured the ground
lost to the Germans the night before,
and that the British now
hold all of Mametz wood. Two
German attacks against Contal- 4
maison were repulsed. .
Attempts of the Germans to i
raid trenches west of Wyschaete ,
and south of La Bassee canal
were frustrated, according to an
official statement issued by the
war office this afternoon. The
British still are engaged in clearing
the Germans from fortified
positions which must be taken
before the general offensive can
be renewed.
Today's Official Report.
Today's official statement, timed at t
o'clock this afternoon, says:
"Heavy artillery duels were in progress
in certain sectors of the battle
area since the last report, and fighting:
continued at various points on the
front, but there was no change in the
situation on any part of our line.
"West of Wyschaete and south of
La Bassee canal, the enemy attempted
to raid our trenches, but he was driven
off in each case by our fire.
"Despite unfavorable weather, our
aeroplanes have been constantly at
work. Hostile machines were active,
but all their attacks on our aeroplanes
operating over the German lines were
driven off. One of our aeroplanes is
missing."
New Assault on Verdun.
The renewed efforts of the German
crown prince at Verdun temporarily
are taking precedence in the public
mind over the battle of the Sorrime. The
recent attack by the Germans before
Verdun is the seventh great onslaught
with dense masses of troops since the
operations began some five months' ago.
The Germans have made a .slight
gain, but apparently this has not lessened
the confidence of the French in
their ability to hold fast. They still
have three solid lines of defense, which
must be penetrated before the German
objective can be gained.
Infantry Gets h Rest.
PARIS, July 13, Noon?There was no
infantry fighting of importance last night
on the Verdun front or over the
portion of the Somme front held by
Intermittent artillery engagements occurred
in the Somme sector. In the
vicinity of Souville, Chenois and La
Lauffee, before Verdun, a heavy bombardment
was maintained by the GerIn
the Champagne the French penetrated
a salient of the German front
md took prisoners. Two German raids
in the Argonne were stopped by the
French fire.
The statement follows:
"There have been intermittent artillery
exchanges along the front of the
river Somme.
"In. the Champagne district we penetrated
a salient of the German line in '
the vicinity of Prosnes and brought
i>ack some prisoners.
"In the Argonne two surprise attacks
delivered by the enemy upon the
lorthern and eastern portions of the
3olante salient failed under our fire.
Vt La Fille Morte we caused the explolion
of a mine and then occupied the
southern side of the crater.
Heavy Night Bombardment.
"On the right bank of the River
Ideuse there has been no iinfantry
lghting. During the night, however,
here was an intense bombardment in
he sectors of Souville, Chenois and La
"'In the Vosges an attack by the enemy
ipon one of our trenches south of Caripach
has been repulsed after a spirited
ingagement with hand-grenades."
Last night's report gave the following
iccount of yesterday's German assault at
'erdun:
"On the right bank of the Meuse the
iermans undertook this morning a strong
ffort in the direction of Fort Souvllle.
Lbout 10 o'clock, after intense artillery
ireparation, a strong attack with ef- /
actives of six regiments debouched from
he village of Fleury and the Vaux and
Siapltre woods. Notwithstanding the ,
iolence of the assaults, which were
sunched in massed formation on a front
elatively narrow, the enemy succeeded.
,t the cost of enormous losses, in gaining
nly a little ground In the nelghlmrhood
f the Chapel of Saints Fine. afTTe in"""hsShs
^Ssaf^Tiall
