J,
THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN- INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTII YEAR
10 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, THURSDAY MORNING, JULY 13, 1916
10 PAGES
VOL. XXVII, NO. 56
ROGRESSHG FAVORABLY
n n - n "t.
NFORHA
BHSP
General Haig's Forces Gain Control Of Entire Mametz Wood
GERMAN ATTACKS ARE
REPULSED ALTHOUGH
FRENCH ARE RESTING
(By Republican Associated Press Leased Wire)
Fighting desperately in the face of determined German attacks the forces
under General Haig succeeded Wednesday in gaining control of the entire
Mametz wood, which had been entered the previous night by the Germans.
In the same region nortn of the Somme the British made some progress in
the Trones wood and repulsed two heavy attacks against Contalmaison. The
Germans are reported to have lost heavily in their attacks on Trones wood.
The French and German forces south of the Somme apparently are rest
ing as there has been almost no activity in the region of Picardy since the
first of the week.
Around Verdun, however, and especially on the right bank of the Meuse
bitter and heavy fighting is in progress between the forces of the German
crown prince and the French defenders of the fortress. The Germans, fol
lowing up their success in the region of the Damlop battery, have undertaken
a strong offensive toward Fort Souville, the possession of which would
strengthen their position for a further advance on Verdun.
Attacking in mass formation from the village of Fleury and the Chiap
STUDY STATUS AS DEUTSCHLAN
DEUTSCHLAND
TO SL1P0UIETLY
D RELOADS
FINAL RULING.
OUT On RETURN
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BALTIMORE July 12.- That plans
were afoot rapidly to re-load the eu-
I per-suhmarine Deutschiana and slip
1 her out speedily on nor return voyage
tre and Vaux woods, the Germans gained ground at the intersection of j t Germany was indicated tonight. A
Fleury and Vaux roads. The gain, however, Paris said, was made at the j special permit was obtained for con-
cost of "enormous losses." Violent bombardment continues in the region of turning Uic umoauing 01 me vessel to
Souville, Chenois and La Laufee. There was relative calm on the left bank'
of the Meuse.
The fierce fighting which has marked the Russian advance across the
Stokhod river toward Kovel appears to have quieted down.
Petrograd says there has been fighting on this sector, but mentions only
two minor attacks by the Germans, which, it adds, were repulsed. There has
been some activity north of the Stokhod region, but in Bukowina and Gali
cia the advance of General Bussiloff'a troops seem to have halted for the
moment.
The Russians have met with success in Armenia, and report the cap
ture of Mamakhatum, 50 miles west of Erzerum, and about the same dis
night and it was expected that she
would be ready tomorrow by dawn to
begin taking on a cargo uf nickel and
rubber.
No one in authority would say when
the vessel would depart and the only
positive statement in that connection
was contained in Captain Koenig's dec
laration to the local customs officers
that he expected to sail within "ten
days."
1 SUBMARINE
AWAITS ADVICE
tancc from Erzingan, the objective of the Russian drive in this direction. The tug Thomas r . Timmons com-.
The Turkish forces, in retreating from the town which was taken by as- pletcd the party and took up a posi
sault, set it on fire. tion directly In front of the Deutsch-
Fighting continues at isolated points on the Austro-Italian front and , land. When the Timmons entered dry
Rome reports some success in the Adiago valley and the recapture in part ' dock " was reported that she was get
of positions along Monte Corno. There were artillery bombardments at i ting ready to return to the Virginia
other points on this front. Vienna claims the repulse of a strong Italian at- j capes to convoy into tne Chesapeake,
tack on Monte Rasto, south of the Sugana valley. as she did the Deutsehland, the sub-
i marine Bremen which is sain to lie
four days on her way to this country.
The air of mystery surrounding ail
discussion of the Deutschland's de
parture was deepened today by reMrts
that her clearance impers may not be
made public when filed, thus prevent
ing advance notice of her leaving be
ing obtained.
It became known late today that
several conferences have been held
. I here between n nresentatives of the
uoii i
ARIZONA GUARDSMEN
GO TO FORT HUACHUCA
Offensive Goes
On In Face Of
Fierce Attacks
Anstrians Say
Retirement Was
For a Strategy
i
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON, July 12. The Anglo
French offensive is maintaining itself
as rigorously as ever against the most
determined atacks, which the Germans
are now delivering against the front
in north France. The (icrmans have
thrown reinforcements into the breech,
having had ample time to recover the
first shock and the unexpected strength
of the British and French attacks.
There is no doubt the Germans had
supposed the French to lie enfeebled
greatly south of the Somme, because of
the number of troops needed in the de
fense of Verdun against the forces of
the German crown prince. The fact ! the Russian
that the allies are progressing so me- i Hrusiloff, to
thodically and even against German at
tacks, gives the people of the liritish
pnd French nations the greatest satis
faction. No events of a sensational
character in northern France were an
nounced today, but General Haig in
a brief bulletin tonight recounts the
recovery by the British of all the Ger-
(Continued on Page Two)
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BERLIN. July 12 (Via I
i The Austro-Gcrman retirement
I the Czirtorysk salient just south of
. the Pinsk swamps, having been com
I plctcd the opposing at mien have come
j to grips all along the line of the
i Stokhod river where von Linsingen
! has elected to stand and" cover the
I approach to Kovel.
; Heavy- fighting already is in prog
ress along the Stokhod hut appar
ently it is merely a preliminary of
j what later may be expected in the
persistent and desperate campaign of
commander, General
reach this important
railway junction regardless of losses.
The retirement, according to ad
vices from Austrian headquarters,
was for stratogi : purposes and the
a'-hiecvement is considered one of
high degree. The Russians had
w irked well around the flanks of the
old position and if material and units
I Ocean
font Kru
Navigation Company and the
u Steel Company and Simon
Lake, inventor of the submarine. This
gave rise to rejtorts that a company
was in process of formation for the
i purpose of carrying on undersea com
merce between this country and Ger
many and that Mr. Luke had been in
vited to accept the position of con
sulting engineer.
While no official announcement
could be obtained from l'aul G. L. Gil
ken, the American representative of
the submarine interests, it is under
stood that plans for the new venture
will be sent back to Germanv on the !
Deutsehland. Air. Lake is said to have
reached a satisfactory agreement with
the owners of the Deutsehland and to
have abandoned any intention of li
belling the vessel. He li ft for Bridge
port, Conn., tonight, and is expected to
return to this city in a few days.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, July 12. Although
state department officials virtually are
convinced that the German submarine
Deutsehland is strictly a merchant
vessel, the advice- of tile neutrality
board probably will be sought before
a final ruling is made.
Acting Secretary Folk Indicated to
day that the ruling would not be de
layed long and it may lie announced
tomorrow.
The detailed report of Collector Ry
an at Baltimore, holding ihat the sub
marine could not be converted into
a war vessel without "extensive struc
tural changes.'' was forward'ed by the
treasury department today to Mr. I
Folk. It probably will be made public!
tomorrow. At the treasury depart-,
merit tonight, it was said that the col
lector, the surveyor of the port, and
Captain C. F. Hughes of the navy,
who examined the submarine at the
request of the state department, were
recorded in the report as agreeing that
she was in every respect a merchant
vessel.
The allied embassies here added
nothing today to the representations
they have made, suggesting that the
Deutsehland is a potential warship
and Mr. Folk said he anticipated no
serious opposition from that quarter
to the department's ruling. Counsel
lor Ban-lay of the Pi'Mish embassy I
conferred with the acting secretary!
hut said afterward he had made no;
new representations.
Diplomats of the allied countries re
ceived information during the day in
dicating that the Deutsehland was
convoyed from Iiremen almost to the
Chesapeake capes by a neutral mer
chantman presumably Norwegian,
Swedish or Dutch, which aided in
shielding her from detection by en-
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DOUGLAS. Ariz., July 12. The re
IMipelation of Agua Prieta, the Mex
ican town opposite Douglas, with ci
vilians, began today when several
hundred women and children who had
left the border district for moboliza
tion camps to the south, returned to
their homes. Thev brought with them
tales of suffering in the camps which
madp evident the fact that limited
too.l, lack of shelter and unsanitary
conditions had been matters to reckon
with. They said many other non
combatants would return to Agua
Fricta and to Arizona towns from
which they had come.
General P. IClias Callcs, commander
in chief uf the de facto forces in
Sonora, spent several hours today in
Naco, re-organizing the civil offices
at that port.
L. R. fiudrow, general manager of
F.I Tigre mine, with several depart
ment l eads, left here for the mine men here.
today to inspect it and make plans
for re-opening. While there has been
no definite announcement, it is un
derstood here, that mining men have
information leadong them to believe
that the embargo on explosives for
Mexico will be modified soon.
The second battalion Arizona na
tional guards left here today for Fort
nuacnuca, Ariz., where the four com
panies will be stationed for the pres
ent. The formation of the new Thirty
fifth infantry here is proceeding
slowly, owing to a lack of equipment
of all sorts. The officers and men of
the Eleventh, Eighteenth and Twenty-second
infantry who will be trans
ferred to the Thirty-fifth to form the
nucleus of the regiment are ready to
make the transfer at any time.
Lack of necessary equipment, par
ticularly clothing, is causing discon
tent and much adveree comment among
the New Jeisey and Montana guards-
BORDER DISPUTE :
DISCUSSED BY
Tl OFFICIALS
10
s
THEN CASE GOES
ALL SECTIONS
SWELTERING IN
WARM 'JULY DAY
(Continued on 1 age Two)
(Continued on Page Three)
IN-EAIG SUA RK SLAYS TI
, AND BADLY INJURES ANOTRER
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
M ATA WAN. .V. J., July 12. Lester
Still well, 12, years old, was killtd by a
man-eating shark while bathing in an
arm of Raritan Bay near here this
afternoon. Stanley Fisher, 24 years I
old, who went to his aid, was so badly
Injured in a struggle with the sea mon
ster that he died while being taken to
a Long Branch hospital. Joseph Dunn,
12 years old, bathing some distance
away in the same inlet, was attacked
by a shark and one of his legs was so
lacerated it probably will have to be
amputated.
This is the third time within two
weeks that sharks have claimed the
lives of bathers along the New Jersey
coast.
Charles B. Vansant, a youth of Phila
delphia, was killed by one off Beach
Haven, N. J., on July 2. Charles Hruder
of Spring Lake, X. J., was attacked
and both lego were taken off by a shark
on July 6. He died while men who
went to his rescue were carrying him
ashore.
A dozen or more boys who also were
bathing In the inlet heard Stillwell'a
screams for help. Fisher who was
standing on the bank went to the res
cue. He had only gone a few fet when
the shark attacked him, biting a piece
out of one thigh.
In spite of his wound. Fisher caught
the boy up in his arms and had started
for the shore when the shark renewed
the attack. ,Burdend as he was Fisher
was helpless and the shark snapped off
his leg. Fisher released his hold on
KUIlwell and himself sank beneath the
surface unconscious.
Hedless of the danger, another boy
sprang Into the inlet and dragged
Fisher out,
well was found, and it is belie ved that
he was devoured by the shark.
The Dunn boy, according to persons
who were standing on mo bank of the
inlet, also was attacked soon after go
ing into the water. An elder brother
and, another boy went to his rescue.
They succeeded in driving off the
shark, but not until after the younger
Dunn's leg had been torn almost to
shreds from the knee down. He is ex
pected to recover.
REPRESENTATIVE
nnnnnrnmurn
rnubiraiu
TO MEET SOON
NEXT SUBMARINE IS
TO BRING FOODSTUFFS
AMSTERDAM, via London. July
12. The next German commerce
submarine to go to America will
bring back foodstuffs, particularly j
condensed milk, according to re-
ports received here from Bremen.
Condensed milk also will form the
built of the return cargo of other
submarines to cross the Atlantic.
In an interview Bremen agents
of the submarine's owners declare
the new submarine enterprise was
j promoted mainly by humanitarian
feelings as German babies are dy-
ing because of the shortage of
milk. Kmperlor William is cred-
j ited with having a financial inter- j
I est in the scheme.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
waikkgan, I!!., July IZ.-Two
more summing up speeches remain to
be made in the trial of William H.
Orpet, collegian, charged with the mur
der of Marion I-ambert.
Ralph F. Potter of the defense, who
spoke this afternoon, will finish to
morrow forenoon. He will be followed
by James H. Wilkerson, also for the
defense, and David R. Joslyn for the
state, will say the final word to the
jury, except for the Judge's instruc
tions. This program is expected to con
sign tne case to the Jury Saturday
night.
The conclusion of the address of
State's Attorney Ralph J. Dady who
began yesterday, occupied the forenoon.
Foot-prints in the snow in Helm's
wood, where last February the body of
Marion Lambert was found, told the
story of the tragedy more plainly than
words, Attorney Dady declared.
"At the three oaks," said Dady, "Or-
put persuaded Marion to take
Republican A. P. Leased Wire!
WASHINGTON, July 12. Nearly
every section of the country sweltered
today in the hottest weather of the
summer and the weather bureau could
offer no hope for relief for several
aays to come.
Only a few localities in the south
west and along the Atlantic coast re
ported temperatures of less than XO.
The east and middle west sweltered
under a hot sun which kept the mer
cury at official observation stations
above 90 and made street level tem
peratures 100 degrees or more. Many
heat prostrations were reported. Cali
fornia, Northern Nevada and Southern
Idaho had official temperatures of
about 100. At Fresno, Cat., it was 108.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, July 12. Informal
negotiations for settlement of border
disputes between the United States
and the de facto government of Mexi
co are "progressing favorably," Act
ing Secretary Polk said today after his
second conference with Eliseo Arre
dondo, Mexican ambassador-designate.
Although Mr. Polk would not add to
this statement, it is understood that
it now is assured the steps being tak
en foreshadow appointment of com
missioners by each government to
formulate a plan of action for the per
manent relief of border conditions.
Mr. Arredondo has not disclosed
what his instructions are, but from
other sources, it has been learned that
the commission plan was favored by
General Carranza arid his advisors,
and would not be ordered bythe state
department. A formal announcement
is expected soon.
Whether the question submitted to
the commission will follow the defin
ition of the matters in dispute laid
down in General Carranza's latest note
is not know, although Secy Lansings
reply apparently accepted that defini
tion.
The Mexican set the reasonable anx
iety, of the L nited States on tne nana
over the security of its borders, and
the feeling of the de facto government
on the other, that the continued pres
ence of American troops in Mexico
menaced friendly relations, constitut
ed the problem for which a solution
must be found.
There are no present indications
that a commission would go into
questions, dependent upon these main
issues, but not directly involved in a
settlement It is believed probable.
however, that the whole subject of in
ternal conditions in Mexico, including
the financial stress there, would lie
reviewed to some extent with the pos
sible result of some more far-reaching
plan being proposed than one embrac
ing border conditions oiily.
Four Dead in Philly
PHILADELPHIA, July 12. Four
deaths and a score of prostrations as
a result of the heat were reported here
today. The maximum official tempera-
the iture was 91 degrees, the hottest weather
Say Infantile , Paralysis
Germ Has Been Isolated
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, July 12. While
Health Commissioner Emerson de
clined tonight to discuss the report
that a New York physician hao. suc
ceeded in isolating the germ of infan
tile paralysis, great importance was
attached by medical men to the meet
ing of physicians tomorrow night
which will be devoted to a discussion
of the disease which has cost more
than 250 lives in this city since the
epidemic began. Among the speakers
will be Dr. Simon Flexner of the
Rockefeller Foundation, who is de
voting his energies to a study of in
fantile paralysis. It was seml-of-ficially
admitted that scientists have
progressed so far that they are test
ing a culture in which they believe
There was a feeling of optimism in
the health department today not only
because there were fewer cast; re
ported than yesterday but also be
cause no new areas were invaded.
Dr. John Dill Robertson, health
commissioner of Chicago, who came
here today to investigate the situa
tion declared his department had not
been called upon to treat an unusual
number of cases of infantile paralysis-
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NKW YORK, July 12 A conference
of representative progressives from I
all parts of the country soon will bej
held in Chicago, it was announced J
here tonight by Bainbridge Colby, to
consider "the widespread and bitter
revolt within the party," against the
action of the national committee in
endorsing Charles K. Hughes, the re
publican nominee for the presidency.
The date will be decided upon in a
few days, Mr. Colby said, and he em
phasized that the conference will be
national in scope, although all states
might not be represented.
Mr. Colby, who nominated Theodore
Roosevelt, before the national progres
sive convention in Chicago, said that
he is in receipt of letters from every
quarter of the country protesting
against what he characterized as the
"Perkins-Fly nn program." This pro
gram," he added, "does not represent
the thought or feeling of the rank and
file."
Mr. Colby made public a letter he
had received from John M. Parker of
l,ouisiana. the progressive nominee for
vice-president, in which Mr. Parker
referred to the star chamber' proceed
ings of the national committee, add
ing:
poison. He was unable to stand the
sight of her death throes and his tracks
led off alone for 144 feet to a cluster of
four trees. Here the tracks show how
lie walked up and down, waiting until
he thought she was dead. Then he
went back.
"There is no other explanation for
(Continued on Page Two)
Philadelphia has experienced this year,
tjtreet temperatures registered 101.
Warm in New York
NKW YORK, July 12. The weather
bureau's kiosk registered 89Vi at 3:30
this afternoon, the highest the mercury
has risen this year. There were more
(Continued on Page Two)
RUCHES DISCUSSES TENTATIVE
PROGRAM IN
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NKW YORK, July 12. 'Charles E.
Hughes continued here today the
weekly conferences which he hus
held with party leaders since making
Uridgchampton his summer home.
With Chairman Willcox of tho re
publican national committee. Senator
Penrose, W. Murray Crane, Mayor
Thompson of Chicago and many oth
ers the nominee discussed his tenta.
tive campaign program. His adviser
unanimously advised his proposal tc
make a trip to the Pacific coast be
ginning early in August.
After, a conference with Mr
An enormous number of voters will U-'hes. Chairman Willcox announced
never submit to such treatment and
I believe that when we consider the
millions of women who will vote this
1 year for the first time and the mil
lions of wage earners who are deeply
interested in and believe in the re
that Cornelius, Bliss has been se
lected as treasurer of the national
committee to succeed George R.
Shelton and that Fred W. Upham of
Chicago would be in charge of the
western end of the work. Mr. Up-
Senator Penrose had a long talk
with the nominee at the conclusion of
which Mr. Penrose said he was go
ing to take his "coat off and go to
work." Mr. Hughes' suggestion that
the notification ceremony be held in
this city has been received with a
division of opinion by his advisers,
charman 'Willcox told the nominee
today that he thought the ceremony
would better be held at Bridgehamp
ton and others have taken the same
view. If Mr. Hushes sees Chairman
Harding of the notification commit
tee tomorrow as he hopes, the ques
tion probably will be definitel set
tled then.
Job Gor General Bliss
SAN ANTONIO, July 12. Army of
ficers here were convinced today that
the coming of General Tasker H. Bliss,
assistant chief of staff, would result
in organization of the national guards
men into tactical units. Fifty thou
sand of the state troops now are near
the border, but with the exceptions
of the divisions from New York and
Pennsylvania, the big addition to the
federal army is listed in units from
brigades to companies. General Bliss
will make a careful study of this new
service and will supervise the con
struction of the scattered units on a
divisional basis.
Such action is in line with the sug
gestion of General Funston, who rec
ommended to the -war department a
few weeks ago the division of his big
border command into three parts,
each part to be commanded by a ma
jor general. The adoption of tiis sug
gestion left large numbers of guards
men improperly divided and there was
recognized immediately the advisabil
ity of a more thorough organization.
General Funston and his staff have
yet the direction of the forces along
the entire border, due to a suspension
of the border division.
The strengthening of the border
patrols, especially that in the Big
Bend district, was well under way
today. Two battalions of Pennsyl
vania infantry from El Paso and one
squadron of Texas cavalry now at
Laredo, were prepared to move to
Marathon, from where they were sent
to the Rio Grande. Four companies
of engineers were sent to Brownsville,
Laredo and Eagle Pass. A search
light company, one of the army's more
recent acquisitions, left for border ser
vice today.
Reports from General Pershing and
from commanding officers along the
border, intimated no general changes.
Appeal for Arms
COLUMBUS, N. M., July 12. Re
ports that a band of armed Mexicans
are operating across the border south
of the San Simon valley of Arizona,
caused residents of the district to ap
peal today to Colonel H. C. Sickel,
commanding the New Mexico border
patrol, for arms and ammunition. Col
onel Sickle referred the appeal to the
(Continued "on Page Two)
forms and betterment for the people, ham's headquarters will be in Chi
for which we have steadfastly stood,
that if we can succeed lif calling a
new Convention, preferably on August
5, the anniversary of the birth of the
progressive party, to demonstrate to
they will find traces of the germ and
No trace of young Still- ultimately isolate it.
uui or a total or i.iiu cases since , the ,)oUti(,ai boss our distrust an(J
the epidemic developed, there have to tne ,,eoI)ie of the nation our' dcter
been 2S7 deuths, it was officially an- 1 minntiori to continue tho firht fr
there nvejto tne j,PO,ie of the nation o
officially an- tion t0 continue the fij
nounced by the department of health
tonight.
In 1907 it was pointed out by health
department officials the epidemic of
Infantile paralysis continued through
the summer and until late in Sep-
lemoer. tne total numner or cases 1 He pointed out that Mr. Parker's
reported were 2,500 there were 500 , letter was written before he (Colby)
deaths. jhad called a conference.
m
those principles for which we have
so strongly advocated, we will stir
public sentiment' so that we will see
a wave of protest against the throttl
ing tactics that has not been heard in
cago. i
Mayor Thompson of Chicago in
ited Mr. Hughes to open at Chicago
the speech making on the' proposed
western trip. The invitation was
taken under advisement and the indi
cations are that it will be accepted.
Mayor Thompson was asked as to
the truth ofr reports that he came
here to protest to the nominee against
the appointment of Harold L. Ickes,
progressive leader of Illinois, to the
campaign committee.
"1 am for anybody whose appoint
ment will heln elect Mr. Hughes," he
said. "I think we should all get together."
Ship Signals In Distress
And Going Down At Sea
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, July 12. Distress sig
nals from the steamship Ramos, re
porting that her engines were disabled
and that she was sinking 310 miles
northwest of Watling's island were
picked up at 8:20 a. m. today, by the
steamship Van Hogondorp, and relayed
to the Marconi wireless station at Mi
ami, Fla., the Marconi company an
nounced here tonight.
The Ramos is a New York and Porto
Rico company vessel of 538 tons net,
which sailed from Philadelphia on July
9 for Cartagena. The Van Hogon
borp reported at 5 p. m. today that
she had arrived at tie last position
given by the Ramos and had been un
able to locate the ship, but was continu
ing iiy thick weather.
Is Freight Steamer
PHILADELPHIA, July 12. The
Ramos reported in distress off War
ling's island is a freight steamer and
has a cargo of 655 tons of bituminous
coal, valued at $1,958. She carried a
crew of 15 men. No passengers ara
aboard.
(
