WEATHER
MARKETS
ARIZONA Thursday
local thundershowers.
NEW YORK CITY
Average price of cop-"
per for week ending
July 5, 25.05.
Associated Press Special Leased Wire Service.
'
VOL. 19, NO. 40.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, THURSDAY jMORNING, JULY 13, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS
F.l vj SI
NAVY
ALLIES'
IS REPORTED
NOGALES SUSPECT
FLEES HIS KEEPER
SHOWING i
"SUB" i!
. i:
Rumored ;
!
Entente Warships
Scouring High Seas Seek
ing Convoys Of German
Trans-Atlantic Freak
U. S. WILL NOT
DELAY SUBMARINE
Clearance Papers As Purely
Merchant Vessel Expected.
Departure Of Ship "With
in Ten Days"
(By Review Leased Wire.)
WASHINGTON, July 12 Allied
warships are said now to be
searching for the convoy shop of
the Deutschland. One report
was that a British steamer which
has put into the Maderia Islands
had sighted on June 23 in the At
lantic, a large submarine bound
eastward in convoy of a steamer.
NOGALES, Ariz., July 12.
V. H. Schwelbz. held here in
connection willi an alleged
violation of the V. S. neutral
ity laws escaped across the
border today and Brad Dun
can, a deputy I'nited States
marshall, who pursued him,
was arrested by Mexican au
thorities and is being held in
the cuartel in Nogales, Sonora.
Schweibz, who claims he is
a former German army officer,
was . walking near the line in
Duncan's custody when sud
denly he jumped across the
frontier. He boarded a wait
ing railway motor car and
made h'u escape to the south
while a Mexican soldier de
tained Duncan.
Col. V. H. Sage, command
ing the United States troops,
immediately instituted nego
tiations for the release of the
deputy marshall.
i
j EOYS IN MEXICO RECEIVE LETTERS AND SUPPLIES FROM HOME
GERMAN "SUB
COMES FOR MILK
AMSTERDAM, July 12. (via
London) The next German
commercial suhmarme to go to
America will bring back food
stuffs, particularly condensed
m!Ik. according to reports re
ceived here from Bremen. Con
densed milk also will form the
bulk of the return cargo of the
other submarines to cross the
Atlantic
Id an interview Bremen
agents of the submarines' own
ers declared the new submar
ine enterprise was promoted
mainly by humanitarian feel
ings as German babies are dy
ing because of the shortage of
milk.
Emperor William' is credited
with having a financial inter
est in the scheme.
iiilSSi
!! URGED 10
SETTLE
i III
WING EAST
OF
WASHINGTON. July 12. Although
state department officials virtually are
convinced that the submarine Deutsch
land is strictly a merchant vessel
the advee of the neutralty board prob
ably will be sought before a final rul
ing is made.
Expect Papers Promptly.
Acting Secretary Polk Indicated to
day tlfut the ruling would not be de
layed longer and it may be announced
tomorrow. It is understood that there
is nothing lacking to establish the
Deutschland's status as a peaceful
merchantman, the desire being to con
sult the neutrality board only in or
der to give added weight to the de
partment's formal decision. The de
tailed report of Collector Ryan at
Baltimore holding that the submarine
could not be converted into a warship
without "extensive structural chang
es", was forwarded by the treasury
department today to Mr. Polk. It
probably will be made public Rmior-
. l. . . w. . .1,1. ir. r-
. i .v ( IND,ANAP0L,Si Ju,y 12The First
San Simon Valley Residents
Up In Arms In Fear Of
Hourly Attack. U. S. Mil
itary Investigating
(By Review Leased Wire.)
COLUMBUS, July 12. Reports
that a band of armed Mexicans
are operating across the border
south jf the San Simon Valley of
Arizona, caused residents of the
district to appeal to Colonel H. C.
Sickel, commanding the New Mex
ico border patrol for arms and
ammunition.-
Colonel Sickel referred the appeal
to the commanding officer of the
Arizona b'jrder patrol and OFdered his j.
pieu in that section to oe on tue alert.
Sunshine blazed the entire motor
supply trail from Columbus to Gen
eral Pershing's field base today with
a result that operation or motor
trucks again was on practically a
normal basis.
si
.... i W.A
raw
BOY DEVOURED BV
! fli-EAlD
Polk And Arredondo After
Second Conference Express
High Hopes Of Peaceful
Solution Of Border
Man Going To Rescue Loses
Leg And Later Dies, At
Matewan, New Jersey.
Others Attacked
Tup. boys in Mexico receiving mail from home. Bottom, troops receiving supplies.
The r.i-nvd of mail In the American camps below the border is always a joyful time for the boys in khaki.
of them have sweethearts who write with preat regularity; all of them have relatives and friends. The
lwti photo shows the arrival of supplies for man and beast at one of the camps. Huge quantities of food
stuffs, ammunition and forage for the horses are daily received at the various camps on both sides of the border.
,&
SHIP FEARED SUNK
ON SPANISH MAIN
LAST OF INDIANA
GUARDS START SOUTH.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
surveyor of the port ana t.apiam
Hughes of the navy, who examined
the submersible at the request of the
state department, were retarded n
the report as agreeing that ship was
in all respects a merchant vessel.
British Cease Protest.
Counsellor Barclay of the British
embassy conferred with the acting
secretary but said afterward he had
made no new representations.
U. S. Concerned for Safety.
The state department today formal
ly denied published reports that it
would not be concerned if the Deutsch
land should be attacked and sunk in
(Continued on Page Two,)
ti'jops left Fort Benjamin Harrison
yesterday afternoon for Mercedes.
Texas. Practically all the Indiana
troops are now on, or enroute to the
border.
ITALIAN FLEET PUTS
AUSTRIAN TO FLIGHT.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
ROME, July 12. An Italian naval
unit successfully attacked yesterday
mbrning the Austrian hydroaeroplane
base In Parenzo, In Istria. It silenced
the new and strong shore batteries I
and put to flight four Austrian ves
sels from Triest.
NEW YORK, July 12. Dis
tress signals Trom the steamer
Ramos, reporting that her en
gines were disabled atid that
she was sinking 310 miles
northwest of Watling's Island,
were picked up at S:20 a. m.
today by the steamer Van Hog
ondorp and relayed, to the Mar
coni wireless station at Miami,
Fla., the Marconi company an
nounced here tonight.
The Ramos is a New York
and Porto Rico Company ves
sel of 7500 tons which sailed
from Catageua. The Van Hog
gondorp reported at 6 p. m.
that she had arrived at the
last position given by the Ra
mos and had been unable to lo
cate the ship but was continu
ing t.'ie search in thick weath
er. PHILADELPHIA, July 12.
The Ramos reported in dis
tress nortwest of Warling Is
land is a freight steamer and
has a cargo of 55 tops of bitu
minous coal valued at $1,958.
She carries a crew of 15 men.
No passengers are aboard.
;
t I
'I
,
'
;
l
;
;
;
i
!
i
:
l
IET VALUATION OF ALL PROPERTY
(By Review Leased Wlre.
i MATAWAN, N. J.. July 12. Lester
Stillwell, 12 years V)U1, was killed by
a man-eating shark while bathing in
an arm of Rariton Bay
! this afternoon. Stanley
J year old, who went to his aid, was
i u uauiy iiijurru in it ririiie wtiiij
1 the sea monster that he died while
being taken to a Long Branch, hospital.
FINANCIAL STATUS,
WILL BE FACTOR
Far Reaching Plan To Resus
citate Mexico Will Be
Placed In Hands Of Com
missioners Soon
(By Review Leased Wire.)
WASHINGTON. July 12. Informal
.negotiations for settlement of border
disputes between the United States
' and the de. facto government of Mex
lico are "progressing favorably" Acting
Secretary Polk said today after hi
! second conference with Eliseo Arre-
dondo, Mexican ambassador-designate.
Although Mr. Polk would not add
I to this state, it is understood that it
i is now assured the steps being taken
near here apiminiineoi o' commis-
vtihor "a sioners by each government to formu
late a plan of action for the perma-
I nent relief of border conditions.
Mr. Arredondo has not disclosed
' what his instructions are but from
other sources it has been learned
im fttfinnmr nniinrw ni ir-n niir-
IN HSt UUUNI! UVttl It
HUNDRED FOURTEEN MILLIONS
i .Tnpnh Dnnn 1? vpara olil hut hi n 2 ,
Isome distance away in the same inlet. itnat tne nimwsioa plan was favored
' was attacked by a shark and one of by r-a Carranza and his advisers
1 hi. w h,itv inH and would not be ordered by the state
Drobablv will have to be anittutated.
This is the third time within two i is xP'f,l sn
department. A farmal announcement
1
WITHER
BEFORE ALLIED BLOWS
SCIENTISTS HOPE
TO ISOLATE N. Y.
SCOURGE GERM
Whether thp question submitted to
; the commission will fill the definition
'of matters in dispute laid down in
General ("arranza's latest rote is no:
known although Secretary Lansinss
reply apparently accepted that dennt
tion. The Mexican note said the reason
able anxiety of the I'nited States or
the one hand over the security jf it
borders, and the feeling for the de
facto government on the other that
the presence of American troops in
Mexh'j mecani-ed friendly relations.
! nnn oti til f tt.l Ihn nrnhlant f.iF which
went O v " ""v -
solution must be found.
Finances to Be Factor.
There are no present indications
Tl,a ttl valM.iinn tl.ia voar rrna immml. In a few thousands nf rtnl-1 m spue OI nis wound, r isner caugni .........uu .... ft Hi
lars short of one hundred and sixteen million. The total exemptions amount I the boy up in his arms and had start- tions dependent upon these ma!n is
fo approximately one million one hundred thousand, making the net valua-ied for shore when the shark renewed ' up9 but not directly involved in a
tions. for taxation purposes, nearly one hundred and fifteen millions. , : the attack. Burdened as he was Fish-; settlement. It is believed, however.
The greatest increases in the valuations are found in two items, the er was helnless and the shark snanoed that the whole subject of internation-
weeks that sharks have claimed the
lives f bathers along the New Jersey ;
coast,
Charles K. Vansant, a youth of
Philadelphia, was killed by one off
Beach Haven. N. J., on July 2.
1 Charles B. Ruder, of Spring Lake. X.
Abstract Of Valuations, Compiled By A. C. Karger, Clerk :J., was attacked ami both legs were
Of The Board Of Supervisors, Shows Great Increase In j taken off by a 8hark on Ju'y 6 He
n . i i e t r . r" .- j died while men who went K his res
Property Valuations In Section. Tax Rate Expected ;cue were carrying nim ashore.
To Be About $1.00 As Against $1.07 Last Year j A dozen or more boys who also
' were bathing in the inlet heard Still-
TOMPTON'E. July 12. (Special) A. C. Karger. clerk of the board of su- well's screams for help. Fisher whoi
pervisors. has just completed a compilation of the taxable property in Cochise was standing on the bank
county, the exemptions and all other details pertaining to the subject. It has tne rescue He had onlv gone a few
been completed since the meeting of the board of equalization whiei ad- f when'the shark attacked him.
journed some days ago. According to the figures the tax rate for state and
county purposes, will oe in tne neigimornooa oi ji.uu as against i.ui last, year, , ,
Fisher released his hold al interests in .Mexico including the
and himself sank be-1 nnanciai stress woum be reviewed ;
Heed-1 some extent with the possible result
mines and the patented grazing lands of the county. In the latter instance ,jff h(g Jeg
tne numner or acres increase over lasi year aniuunieu io apiiruxiniHieiy -uu, , o.m.ii
. . j . t..n r on Stillwell
imiu. 1 lie mines, uiw, iiirrt-nfu umiri iaij. ; ... ,
i inmi vninoiinn .. ciio-hfiv nv nn hnn.lrc.l nnil three 1 neath the surface unconscious.
million dollars, less exemptions of approximately one million, left, for taxa-less of the danger a boy sprang into of some more fjir-reachini: pian being
tion purposes, about one hundred and two miillon, three hundred and sixty the inlet and dragged Fisher out. No proposed than one embracing bonier
nine thousand. (trace of young Stillwell was found i conditions only.
The abstract of the various items, according to Clerk Karger's report, is and it is believed he was devoured'
as follows: ,'hv the shark
21!2.7" acres irrigated
i2S. 9:!7.r.S acres dry farming and grazing land
1143.70 acres grant lands
52.4S0.4S acres other grant lands
The Dunn boy. according to per-
Valuatlon
9 312 40 suns wll ,r siaiiiiiiiK on me naiiK
57.lSfi.00 ' of the inlet, also was attacked soon I
176.101.00 after going int'j the water. An elder '
TWO BATTALIONS ARE
DESPATCHED TO BIG BEND
Onfimlsm Invarle N. Y. Med
rti 1 V C til i si va nrtA i niMnVtr otl t a
ico Kanks. imnonanii; """" -
m .. c . r T J ( " entrators
Meeting oet for 1 Oday. i Mining machinerv and supplies
Fewer Cases Reported
(By Review Leased Wire.)
KL PASO. July 12 A battalion
City, town lots Including improvements 10.144.558.00 brother and another boy went to his each of the Second and Tenth Peun-
590:5.52 acres patented mining land and improvements 68.761,498.53 ; rescue. They succeeded in driving oft sylvania regiments of infantry, en-
l.4:u.o the shark but not until after thejirained toniaht l'jr Marathon. Tex..
10 641 97 ' 0UnR Dunn'8 1K had been torn al ! where they have been ordered to re
15 mn nm oi ! "lost to shreds fi'om the knee down, j inforce the bonier patrol in the Big
19.5S9.53 acres non-producing unpatented mining land
i 59.90 acres patented mill sites
95 acres producing unpatented mines
(By Review Leased Wire.)
NEW YOUK. July 12. While
(By Review Leased Wire.) : ate fighting the past few days. In
LONDON. July 12. (10:25 p. in.) icidentally General Haig comments on
The Anglo-French offensive is main-j the heavy casualties sustained by the
tainingtself as rigorously as ever ' Germans in their attacks against the
against the most determined attacks, British forces north of the Somme.
which Germans are now delivering j Frong General Haig's bulletin it is 1 Health .Commissioner Kimrson de
against the front in northern France. ; seen that the British are driving clined tonight to discuss the report
The Germans have thrown reinforce-j steadily toward the crest of the that a New York physician had f.uc
ments into the breach, having had ridge commanding the w ide Bipaume I ceeded In isolating the germ of in
ample time to recover from the first I plateau. According I'j the view of 'fantile paralysis, great iinj.'.irtance
sl.'jck and the unexpected strength of French military experts there are no , was attached by medical men to the
the British and French attacks. There: less than 600.000 German bayonets op-! meeting of phvsicians tomorrow ni
is no doubt the Germans had sup-'. posing the advance of General Haig's ; which will be devoted to discussion
posed the French to be enfeebled j forces. j of the disease, which has cost more
greatly south of the Somme because! The Reuter correspondent at the than 250 lives in this city since the
Smelter Supplies ,
11 H.iuk'-i
12 20 mill's street railway
Merchandise
121.1 ailtoi lotiiles
"4 niotorcvi 't-s
426 004 mil 's standard railwa
"S15.5 miles telephone lines
1 191.89 miles telegraph lines
Gas anil electric light plants
Water works
841 dozen clrckens
nt i 3209 stands o.- bees
Furniture, household and office
' 5:i:!5 ranee horses
Jlfi work horses, class "A"
2074 work horm's. class "B" . . .
nf the number of tritons needed in . British front reports that tui Her- onirlnmln hoinn I)r hnnti Fleti'lier
the defense f Verdun against the , man field guns bearing the date 1874 of the Rockefeller Foundation, w ho Is j j;2 'Ji'lJ''''' '"
forces of the Crown Prince. The fact ! have been captured by the British. ! devoting his energies so' far with) j4- jln'j,,""!,,' ""
that the allies are progressing sojThe correspondent asks whether, ! study of the disease today said that I jj.js mules,' class "B"
methodically and even against Ger- without attaching undue importance j scientists have progressed so farlr)2 burros
man attacks gives the people of the ; to the incident, these guns do not in-'with the testing 'if a culture tlicy he-j 12 jinks
British and French nations the great- dicate the straits to which the Ger-' lieve they will find traces of the r !'0.S62 range cattle
mans are beginning to be reduced in 'germ and ultimately isolate it. i 4 ' s,'"crs -
itfi'i rau re
i .re? .........
on the front in France were reported t On the Russian front the battle the health department today not only ..,;; ,s
today but General Haig in a brief bul- , continues along the Stokhod River ; because there were fewer caves re- j 5 hpp .
letin tonight recounts the recovery by 1 with the same determination to win. 1 ported than yesterday but also be- 2n.r.i',7 goats
5,500.00
931.S70.00
505.768.00
1.020.590.00
152.6S2.40
2.074.899.85
57S.7S8.00
2.845.00
1G.723.36.V00
249,021.50
81.04S52
439.612 61
437.385.00
4.233.00
6.672.00
505.240.24
120.325.00
12.020.00
113.251.00
85.793.00
12.650.00
17.025.00
37.303.00
773.00
He is expected to recover.
Bend district
AlES
10 BE
ASSEMBLED IN DIVISIONS
(By Review Leased Wire.)
SAN ANTONIO. July 12. Army of
tlcers were convinced here today that
the coming of General Bliss would re
sult in reorganization of the national
guardsmen inl'j tactical units. Fifty
guardsmen improperly divided ard
there was recognized immediately the
advisability of a more thorough or
ganization. Genera Flunston and his
staff have yet the dire-.-tion of t;
forces along the entire border, due to
thousand of the state troops now are a suspension of the order of division.
est joy.
No events Vf exception on characler ftrder to find sufficient armament.
the British of all the gi'jund lost yes-1 The Germans are reported to be cause no new areas were invaded.
terday in the Mametx wood. The bringing up all possible reinforce-1
British commander tells of the re- . In n endeavor to DIES IN NEW JERSEY.
pulse of two heavy German attacks j EAST ORANGK. N J.. .lulv 12
against Contalmaison and of steady i Bave Kovel BRalnst wnlcn t,,e Rus" Mrs. Helen Wills Miller, widow of !
1 Jos. NcNon Miller. (Ti"d 1
here ast night.
1115 hogs
All other pr
117 unpatented mine:
near the border but with the excep
tion of the div isions from New York
and Pennsylvania the big addition to
1,350.00 'the federal army is listed in units
2,271.470.00 i from brigades to companies. General
43.390 00: iijs8 jj llia tureful study of this
new service and
87 Tin on
'3 "'50 00 divisional basis.
4(727. 00 ; Such action is in line with the situ
6.970.00 gestion .)f General Funston who re-
will supervise th
construction of the scattered units on
The strengthening of the border
patiMs. especially that in the Big
Bend district was well under way to
day. Two battalions of Pennsylvania
infantry also and ' one suuadron of
Texas cavalry now at Laredo, were
prepared to n;ve to Marathon from
which they will be sent to the Rio
Grande. Four companies of engineer
were sent to Brownsville. Laredo and
Eagle Pass. A searchlight company.
iperty V 1.3S6.143.S8 j commended to the war department n one rf the army's more recent acituisl-
10.000 0')
progress bv nis forces in tne 1 rones " - uuon. 5 i ',.' . near Admira
Toial valuat ion all property $115,934 062.56
ToIhI exemptions 1.119.336 00
w'jod. also of much heavy and desper-, lines.
Net Total IV r taxation purposes $114,S14,726.56
few weeks ago the division of his ' tions, left for border service today,
big border command into three parts ; Reports from Genetal Pershing an l
each part to be commanded by in from commanding officers along the
miij'.r general. The adoption of hia t'.trder indicate no material changes
suggestion left large numbers of in the international relations.
