y '07 Secoud 81
Ash
"Ashland Grows While Llthia flows'
City of Sunshine and flowers
Ashland, Oregon, Llthia Springs
"Oregon's famous Spa"
VOL. XLI
ASHLAND. OREGON, THURSDAY, JULY 13, 1916
NUMBER 15
Tidings
Details of Rogue
River Round-Up
For three days, July 4, 5 and 6, the
vast crowds who were here harked
back to the days of the untamed west.
The Rogue River Roundup was a
great success. Such a confident state
ment being backed by the unanimous
approval of the 30,600 people who
altogether witnessed the rodeo, the
first of Its magnitude held in south
ern Oregon. The hundred picturesque
cowboys and cowgirls who came from
Pendleton, Klamath county, northern
California and the valley did not
come merely to "show off," but came
with the Intention of carrying away
the first honors In their events. The
roundup outclassed and always will
outclass any kind of performance In
vented by the Ingenuity of man, be-
cause the performers are doing- the
things which In the wild mountains
and grassy plains they have done all
their life, and because the cowboy Is
the "real thing," game to the last,
a good sportsman and a character
who knows nothing but to do his best.
Ashland will await with eagerness
the return of the men who made this
year's show a success. They made
friends by the score in Ashland. The
' cowboys were here for a good time
along with the hopes of honors, and
livened up Ashland Into a state of
excitement such as the old city has
never before known.
The rodeo Itself on all three days
presented a constant round of thrills,
excitement, bands playing, cheering
crowds, and with the matchless pick
of the horsemen of the west In action
In the arena and on the track.
Hut-king Content.
For days previous to the roundup,
at almost any hour of the day or
night, envious eyed men with the tan
of the range on their cheeks could be
seen admiring the beautiful saddle
which was hung In Briggs' shoe store
with the Inscription, "First prize,
Rogue River Roundup bucking con
test." 1 Seventy-eight rldera entered the
contest and the worst horses in all
the west were ridden.
The first day's contest saw a great
many of the poorer riders eliminated,
the crowd applauding the horse when
be managed to buck his rider sky
ward or the rider when he stuck,
Impartially.
On the second day the contest grew
warmer and the best riders were seen
in action.
The third day narrowed the contest
down to seven riders by the time-the
other events were over, and the worst
horses of the bunch were trotted out
for the semi-finals. Broncho Boo
Hall of Pendleton drew Spider and
put up a pretty ride. George Fletch
er, the Pendleton negro who many
claim to be the world's greatest rider
and who was a favorite In Ashland,
enlivened his exhibition on Tim with
a six-shooter. Ben Corbett, riding
for Gregory, who was injured the day
before, went into the contest with the
- best wishes of every contestant, who
with characteristic big-heartedness
had voted to let Corbett ride for the
injured cowboy despite the fact that
it narrowed their chances of victory.
Corbett could not stick Nancy Stuart,
however, and was almost heartbrok
en. Frank Coburn on Sunfish Molly
made a fair ride. Andrew Jackson,
Indian Boy, made a pretty ride, but
was ignored apparently by the judges.
Donal Cannon sat Buffalo Bill like a
veteran.
While various stunts were being
staged the judges picked out Cannon,
Beck, Fletcher and Hall for the
finals.
The thrill of the rodeo came wtifc
Frank Beck was thrown high in the
air from the back of his horse, came
down head first, caught his chaps
over the saddle horn and was
dragged head down for 75 yards by
the plunging animal before rescued.
By some miracle he escaped almost
unhurt.
George Fletcher drew old Alkali
Ike and made a pretty ride, which
almost if not quite equalled Broncho
Hall's, on Wild Cat. Donal Cannon,
much to his delight, drew Powder
River, and in a beautiful ride fairly
and squarely won the saddle and the
$50 first money. Cannon is a sixteen-year-old
lad from Pendleton and
naturally the crowd and the cowboys
went wild. Hall was given second
and Fletcher third, winning $50 and
$25 respectively. To thundering ap
plause the boy winner threw the
bright new saddle with Its beautiful
mountings onto his horse and gal
loped around the track.
(Continued on face Eight.)
Organize Round-Up
Stock Company
The Rogue River Roundup Is to be
come an annual event. The land on
which the roundup stands and track
are located has been leased for five
years by the promoters who are or
ganizing a local stock company. The
roundup held during the celebration
was a big success and financially
showed a good enough balance on
the right side to encourage the men
behind it, Messrs. Bergner, Nlnlnger,
Helms, Briggs and Adams, to enter
Into the organization of a company
which will establish the Rogue River
Roundup as one of the greatest wild
west shows on the coast. Big in
ducements were offered by Medford
parties In an endeavor to take the
show from Ashland, but believing
! that Ashland Is more ideally situated
for the entertainment of the immense
crowds which the roundup draws, the
Ashland men decided to keep the
show at its present location. On
Monday before noon $2,000 of stock
in the company was sold and was
snapped up as fast as offered. The
stock was sold in $25 lots and no
person allowed more than four
shareB. Thus next year the force of
a much larger personnel will be put
behind the roundup and the work
necessary divided among many in
stead of resting on the shoulders of
five men as it did this year.
Ashland Is ideally located for an
Immense show, as was amply demon
strated by the Immense crowds which
attended during the recent celebra
tion. The universal satisfaction giv
en everyone who visited Ashland as
sures a much larger attendance next
year. The city has occasion to pat
itself upon the back every time it
thinks of the manner In which the"
crowds were cared for. The roundup
annually means an annual income of
over a hundred thousand dollars to
the' city, absolutely clear, and with
the continued cooperation of every
Ashlander there is no reason why the
Rogue River Roundup should not be
come one of the big festivals of the
west.
The roundup association intends to
commence in the near future the ac
complishment of many betterments
around the grounds. The present
grandstand will be used as bleachers
in the ga pon the east side, a magnifi
cent new permanent covered grand
stand will be built, the track will be
enlarged, new entrances and a num
ber of conveniences and Improve
ments built.
The success scored this year will
attract hundreds of cowboys next
year and stock from all over the west
Auxiliary Float
Is Most Artistic
The most artistic feature of the
celebration parades and the most ar
tistically planned and constructed
float that the writer has ever seen
was the Auxiliary float in the Queen
Llthia Pageant. The float was
planned and built under the super
vision of L. G. Glieve of Vaupel's, who
also did a great deal of the actual
work, laboring most of the night of
the 3rd. He was assisted by the fol
lowing committee from the Auxiliary
club: Miss Lillian Patterson, Mrs.
L. G. Glieve and Mrs. Henry ProvoBt.
The float was done in yellow and
white. It represented "A Gift to the
World," Jiuge loving cups represent
ing the gift. The center of the float
was built to represent a fountain with
the fairy of waters waving her wand
for the waters to arise and gush forth
power and health. Young ladies in
costumes and carrying symbols of art
and music to give praise to Ashland
were grouped in niches around the
fountain. A huge harp on which to
play paeans of praise was played by
Mrs. Shirley Keene in Grecian cos
tume. Minora Cornelius represented
the arrival of spring. Flora Provost
and Alta Farmer were fountain bear
ers. Qnerlta Brown represented art.
Master Jack Glieve and Kenneth Fris
wold were buglers to the call of joy.
Little Margueflte Friswold represent
ed the fairy calling upon the waters
to rise. The float was simply per
fect in its harmonious beauty and
bespeaks the work of a real artist.
A mile of paving is to go down on
South Commercial street, Salem.
The co-operative cheese factory at
Donald, Ore., is increasing Its odtput.
Several new school houses are be
ing erected at Oregon City, costing
$15,000.
Big" Doings at
Chautauqua
Tonight The famous Mawson Moving Picture!" of the
Antarctic, with lecture by Dr. A. W. Hunsherger,
descriptive of the expedition; the finest travel pic
tures in the world. Pre'ude by the Elite Trio.
Friday Evening "The Challenge of the Hour", by
Sylvester A. Long, one of the keenest and most en
tertaining lecturers in America; the "Lightning
and Toothpicks" man of 19U9 Assembly. Don't
miss him. Prelude by Sequoia Male Quartette.
Saturday Wood Briggs, the great Kentucky Story
Teller, in the afternoon with Robert Parker Miles,
noted lecturer and newspaper man. Kaffir Boy
Choir in the evening; this great attraction is one
of the very finest on the read it's great hear
them sure.
Booklet of This
Section To Be Made
Vice President E. O. McCormick
and General Passenger Agent J. M.
Scott of the Southern Pacific left this
morning for Klamath Falls. Mr.
Scott has been in the valley for
twelve -days now and Mr. McCormick
for eight, which are the longest stays
either have ever made in any part of
Oregon except Portland. They are
gathering first hand Information re
garding southern Oregon attractions
with the purpose in view of the publi
cation of booklets advertising south
ern Oregon attractions and centering
on Ashland. .The two officials
climbed Mount Ashland while here
and. turned yesterday from a trip
to the Marble Caves. They are go
ing over Into the Klamath country
now to visit the Klamath lakes, Pell-
can Bay, Lake of the Woods and oth
er attractions of that section. The
Klamath trip will conclude this visit
to southern Oregon. Both Mr. Me
Cormick and Mr. Scott are lovers of
i the great outdoors and state that they
have enjoyed a wonderful time while
exploring the beauties of the wondeiv
ful country centering about Ashland.
Russian Violinist
Makes Big Hit
The Skibinsky-Welch Company,
composed of Prof. Alexander Skibin
sky. the great Russian violinist, Miss
Welch, contralto, and Miss Baker,
pianist and accompanist, delighted a
good afternoon audience at Chautau
qua Tuesday. Their program only
lasted half an hour, but that was
long enough time to convince even
the most critical person that they
could fender the best of music. Prof.
Skiblnsky, as everyone probably
knows, lost a finger from his left
hand some time ago and everyone
thought that a great genius had been
lost to the world. However, he went
to work and after a number of fail
ures has made himself a finger with
which he can play as well as he could
before at any rate he can play as
well with it as it would seem possi
ble for him to with a good finger.
Miss Welch has a remarkable con
tralto voice and Miss Baker besides
being a good accompanist is a fine
soloist as well.
In the evening of the same day
they again favored a large crowd with
a few selections. This time they
were even better than in the after
noon. Their efforts to please the
audience were well rewarded for
they encored again and again. Prof,
Skiblnsky said that he would be de
lighted to play more but was obliged
to keep to his 45-minute limit then
added, "Isn't that the limit?"
Gets Contract for
Crushing Rock
Harry Hildebrun of Roseburg has
been awarded a contract by the state
to crush approximately 90,000 yards
of rock to be used on the Pacific
Highway in this county. The crush
ing will be done at the rock crusher
at Siskiyou, the rock being taken
from the bill near there. About
twenty-five men will be employed in
the work, which will probably last
several months. Mr. Hildebrun ex
pects to come up from Roseburg to
commence operations this week.-
Phone job orders to the Tidings.
Leaves Sat.
For Fort Stevens
Xext Saturday afternoon on train
16 what promises to be the largest
militia company Ashland has ever
sent to an encampment wiU depart
for Fort Stevens, where they will put
in ten days in actual practice with
the big guns which the months of
training at the local armory with min
iature equipment Is teaching them
to handle. ' The company will send
over seventy men, about eighty now
being enrolled in the First company.
Captain C. A. Malone, who left
Ashland some time ago to accept a
position as purchasing agent for the
California-Oregon Power Company
and makes his home in Oakland, has
secured a vacation leave and will be
up to take command of the company
during the encampment. A big crowd
will be at the depot to give the local
soldier boys a sendoff. Rumors to
the effect that the local company may
be left in charge of the Fort Stevens
batteries and the regulars sent tor
Mexican service have caused' most of
the men to make arrangements for
care of their affairs in case such
should be the case.
Hotel Oregon Will
Have New Manager
A. Austin Chlsholm, until recently
In charge of the new Hotel Austin at
Medford, will on next Saturday as
sume the management of the Hotel
Oregon, Ashland's tourist hotel which
recently underwent alterations and
improvements aggregating a cost of
$20,000. J. W. Dobbins, the retiring
manager, has not as yet announced
his plans for the future": Mr. Dob
bins was a prime mover in the remod
elling of the hotel and many of his
plans were incorporated in the re
built structure. He has taken a live
Interest in community projects and
his departure will be regretted. Mr.
Chlsholm is an hotel man who has
made caring for the public his life
work, and under his hands the people
of Ashland can look forward to ac
commodation facilities at the Hotel
Oregon second to none on the coast.
Mr. Chlsholm has been In the hotel
business practically all his life and
comes with a record of successful
achievement behind him.
The new manager is bringing from
San Francisco the late head chef of
the St. Francis hotel of that city, as
suring patrons of the hotel grille of
a cuisine unsurpassed.
The Hotel Oregon Is becoming the
center of Ashland's social an'd busi
ness life, and under the management
of Mr. Chlsholm should assume a still
more important part in the life of the
city.
It is rumored that the name of the
hotel may be changed to "Hotel Aus
tin."
An Sunday from 5 until 8 a table-de-hote
dinner at 75 cents will be
served. Good music will be obtained
and a sort of informal opening under
the new management made out of the
evening. The dinners will become
regular Sunday features, however.
Mrs. J. J. Cambers received a wire
announcing the death of her mother,
Mrs. Nellie Kinney, July 7 at Butte
City, Mont. It was a great shock, as
she did not know her mother was ill.
Mrs. Kinney visited her daughter
seven years ago. While in Ashland
she made many friends who will be
grieved to learn of her death. She
was a true Christian and a loving
mother.
Chautauqua Classes
Worth Attending
The daily classes are one of the
most important brandies of Chautau
qua, and yet few people fully realize
what they really mean. There is a
kind of class for nearly ev.eryone.
There Is the Hoys' Physical Club for
the real live boy and the boy that
should be a real live one. Its hour
is S a. m. The Girls' Physical Club,
the parallel of that of the boys',
meets at 9:10 a. m. These classes
are directed by Prof. I. V. Larlmore,
assisted by his two daughters. Prof.
Larlmore has directed the boys' and
girls' clubs every year for a number
of years. The children like him bet
ter every year. Some of the children
almost like him better, for the time
being, than they do their parents.
One small boy said: "If anyone says
Mr. Larlmore's not my friend, he's a
liar and don't know Mr. Larlmore."
He brings something new every year.
This year the children are taught to
rescue people from drowning and to
resuscitate them. They go in swim
ming almost every day and many of
them are learning to swim. For the
younger children Miss Broughton
conducts a Junior Chautauqua in the
park near the tabernacle. She tells
them Btorles of "King Arthur and
his Knights."
For the grownups and those nearly
so there are clauses in the G. A. R.
hall every morning. Everyone who
likes to think should attend these
classes. At 9 Prof. F. Berchtold of
the O. A. C. conducts a literary class
on the lower floor of the hall. The
general subject of his lectures Is
"The Chief Works of Contemporary
Dramatists and Novelists." ire Is a
good teacher and it should be a real
treat to belong to his class. On the
upper floor of the hall at the same
time there Is a class in "Geology and
the Social Problems" conducted by
Dr. John O. Hall of the Willamette
University. This is another class to
which everyone should belong. The
lectures are interesting and of great
educational value. At 10 in the lower
floor of the same building there Is a
class in "Genetic Psychology." ' Dr.
E. S. Couklln of the U. of O. is the
master of this department. Every
parent and teacher who can possibly j l" ' u"'"6 l"c "
get there should hear these lectures. fectlve advertising." stated the speak
It will help you to manage your chll- er- Kln on t0 tel1 how Springfield
dren and pupils. In the Chautauqua ! was taklll 8 lead amoUB eft8tera cR
buildlng at the above time there is ie8 ln developing a magnificent civic
an hour of "W. C. T. U. Methods."' , roP of bulldIl5. overcoming
Mrs. Mary D. Russell is in charge of ,mnle,,He ol,8tttcIe8 nt lmmemie C08t'
this hour. It has proven very inter- j but b the effrt waB Becur,ng Public
estlng to those who have attended : 1,1 alraost every raaeazlne af the
on the lower floor of the G. A. R.
hall, Dr. Allen Moore conducts a class
In Bible study. Dr. Moore was for
several years a missionary in Pales
tine and has many things to say
which make one think. The round
table Is superintended this year by
Miss Gertrude Engle. Under her
management a long line of education
al lectures have been planned. The
lectures there start at 4:30.
With this lineup it would seem that
every one could come to some of the
classes at least. If you do not come
you are missing a great chance.
Opera Company
Passes Requirements
The International Opera Company
did not, as far as I know, disappoint
anyone. On the contrary, the one
whom they did not please was by far
the hardest person In these parts to
please. The company consists of a
mixed quartet and a pianist. Every
member of the company is an artist J
and, furthermore, a human being.
They did not put on airs they
laughed with the audience. In fact,
one of the most striking features of
their performance was their laugh.
They could laugh more realistically
and more in tune than any aggrega
tion of people wtyh which you will
meet in a long period of time. How
ever, laughter was not the only re
deeming feature of their program.
They sang concert music and sang It
well. At the last half of the pro
gram they presented the opera, "The
Sleeping Queen," by Balfe. The
opera was cut down so that only four
characters were needed and It could
be given in one act. This, of course,
was not as good as it would have been
with a full cast and with all its
scenes, but it was 'well given and
could not have been better. The cast
acted and sang it as if they liked It
and enjoyed it as much as the audi
ence. Phone job orders to the Tidings.
Zueblin Says City
Is on Right Track
One of the snappiest, most perti
nent, clever and generally enjoyable
after-dinner talks which Ashland citi
zens have had an opportunity of hear
ing was listened to by some sixty men
and women of Ashland at the Hotel
Oregon Tuesday noon. At the call of
President Smith of the Commercial
Club, who through the co-operation
of the Chautauqua people had secured
the celebrated community builder,
Charles Zueblin, the business men re
sponded well and were fully repaid
by the excellent dinner and the twen
ty minutes of rapid fire humor and
inspiration given by the Chautauqua
speaker. Mr. Smith Introduced the
speaker, outlining some of his accom
plishments, which have included a
European education along lines of
community building and years of
practical experience as one of the
pioneers In this new development of
municipal life. .Mr. Zueblin caught
his audience with his first sentence
and with a rapid succession of laugh
able incidents kept his hearers in a
roar of laughter which subsided only
when the speaker interspersed some
serious thought which was as full of
"punch" as his humor was of laughs.
"City Advertising" was announced
as his subject, and it apparently was
a subject which Mr. Zueblin knows
and lover, "Advertising Is anything
which gets publicity, but sometime
the publicity Is not desirable." As an
Instance he Inquired of his hearers,
what jumped into tbelr minds when
someone spoke of Keno, answering
himself, "divorce suit." Then "Salt
Lake? Union suite. And Denver,
"Non-union suit." He outlined the
kind of publicity which was wanted
and proclaimed the weakness in ad
vertising as It has been accepted in
past years in America to be that it
merely sold the goods without at
tempting to liack up the advertising
with goods which will sell themselves
and resell.
"Advertising next to reading mat
ter is the best kind of advertising
that can be boughtbutthe reading
matter Itself is thebest "publicity
and the city which Is doing things
which get them this free publicity is
. 1. - .. . 1. I ,,U fn Anlnrr Ikn moot .1 f
city wiin me uisiiucuon 01 ueiug iv
leader. lie then told of the struggles,
which Washington, D. C, was going,
through in securing a city of beauty.
"Here in Ashland you people dv
not seem to need advice. Vou have
an ideally situated city and are going
about your development In exactly
the right way. Taking advantage of
your canyon, which comes from th
very font of the city's life, Mount
Ashland, your development speaks ot
great vision and indomitable spirit.
Just keep going the way you are
headed and Ashland will take Its
place among the beauty spots ot
America."
"In all my travels over this coun
try your new park, added to the nat
ural environment which you already
had, represents the finest bit of Ideal
Ism I have found. Just go on, It may
seem slow, but in a few years you
will have a new Ashland." ,
The following were present at the
luncheon: Messrs. and Mesdames Gt
F. Billings, J. W. McCoy, E. D.
Briggs, C. B. Lamkin, G. W. Trefrenk
I). II. Illnthorne, A. C. Nlnlnger, A. L.
Lamb, J. J. McNalr, J. E. Fuller, 0
H. Johnson, H. T. Elmore, Mrs. Jack,.
Mrs. F. H. Farrar, Mrs. Price, Misses
Miriam Gregg and Gertrude Engle,
Messrs. F. E. Watson, W. Y. Crow
son, M. C. Reed, B. R. Greer, F. J.
Shlnn, Dr. McCracken, L. F. Fergu
son, Rev. Carnahan, C. H. Vaupel,
Rev. Douglass, W. E. Newcombe, J..
H. McGee, E. J. Kaiser, Homer BII-
j lings, E. M. Butler, B. C. Sheldon,.
n. r. uoimes, KOinns, k. u camps.
R. P. Campbell, A. M. Beaver, Johm
Fuller, V. O. N. Smith, C. A. Rex
road, II. G. Enders, W. D. Hodgson.
J. A. Kohagen, Sylvan Provost, D.
Perozzl, W. W. Morgan.
A bond election at Paisley, Ore.,
has carried three to one for a $30,
000 high school.
The Menasha Woodenware Com
pany of Chicago is interested in a
plant at Marshfield.
American Nitrate Company at Vale,
Ore., has 45 men at work in Lake
county.
