JA44iJ)JltVH CXi D
I . 1X1. M M IV M t Villi. i. III.
BURLINGTON VERMONT, THURSDAY, JULY 13, 1916.
NUMBER
2.
S
B SETTLEMENT
Now Being Taken Fore-
t A I A J A. I
II IV I III! il I M II II 1 1 I II 1111 I. Ill
missionnrs hv IMovirn ;inr1
'ii i.i i
RRSN7A FfiUnRP! PI AM
issinn Wniild T?iviov tho
ire Situation with Possi-
f.viur. n .-iiiiim n iir.ifpnrn.
Plan Proposed Rather
n Ono F:icinr Unrflpr fVic;i
ncinn. .llllv 1" .Tnrnnnn nAim 1.
u fuiueiat.iic. 01 uuniiT disputes
tho I'nltcd States and tho do
government of Mexico nro
sing favorably, Acting Soc.rot.iry
with Kliseo Arredondo, Mexican
ir1n," ,1 ncl i ti fi t
iirn nr. I'mir wninii tint nrui in
lll'IIll'Ill It IS UIlUCrKlOOU UlllL II
nssurod tlio stops being taken
dnw appointment of commisslon
oach government to fonn a plan
on for ho permanent relief of
conditions.
strumous nro but from other
it hua been learned that tho
slon plan was favored by General
'Mil ii' iiiu si.m iii-jmruiiem. wv
aiitiouncetiii nt Is expected soon,
her the nuostlon submitted to
u in irMi in win iiiuiiw inn ut'iiiii-
f the matters in dispute laid
n General Cnrranza's latest note
known, although Secretary Lnn-
reply apparently accepted that
on. The Mexican note said tlio
nin nnviniv ni I no imircu
on the other hand over tlio se-
of its borders, and the fooling
do facto government on the
llilllll llllll m- ,1 1 I III 11 fl 1 Jili'
9 I 1 .. I.. ,
d friendly relations, constltut-
prohleni to which a solution
o aru no present Indications
commission would bo Into
but not dltectly Involved In a
one. II is noiiovea oronamo.
conditions In Mi xlco, including
ancinl stress tin re would be ro-
to some extent with tho possl-
...I f ........ I LI....
border conditions only.
II A I 1 MI,' TIM .li
HELD UP 7 HOURS
Mrm find Attaches Prod
ucts I'll Itoiite.
nd. July 12. A carload of erfnm
III. .1 n..l....1 fr Tn.. ........ l.n
ii 'uriMivii mi i.iiaimi iii-i nil."
fi 'finnini ivns ho rl on for kovom
' ere late last nirilt by reason of
ichmont levie 1 bv Deputy Shoritf
R, Adams of this city In a suit
t by Henry Wntters of Brandon
i, Ida Grnustotn, hpad of a well
MnssnchuFctts milk distributing
i, to recover ou a bill for de
of cream covering April, May
............. 1. 1 ln T, . . . I t ...
Af'er much delay Mrs. Orausteln
of nrandon, attorney for Mr.
s. ann on ner uromiso seni lo-oav
I, -uti-iiiiB, i " u iiiuuijin j 1 1 1" 1 1,
Ilk wnn roleflaert nt nn onrh' linlir
nrnmiT. 'i ntx ipmnprnTiivft raiinir A
r MnpnH from Sfl Srt i-lof-roti
tho milk stood about tho nta
SUES FOR $2,000.
if wiirrifi wtiit-ui'n ifiniN i iimiirii
e 111m .Fmv In llfiHol.ntl I)Imiiii4.v
tpollor, July 1 2. Koberto riar-
Ilarre has broiiKht a civil suit
Canalcs for $2,000 as the le
u an uneven aFsauic. uarcia
that Canales, who In a well
i baseball pitcher In this part of
ate, struck him In tho Jaw while
a dispute nv r a (Tame, Ills
mjiiik iratuinMi in iwo places,
s was nrrosted at tho time of
leped assault, which occurred 10
i.rf. hi. tiiiiiiii nine linn
fillet at Montpeller.
tpellor, July 12. Survlvlnp
ers oi i ouipnny J' , iwronn vnr
HeKlment, which was laised In
1I.. nfr II. ..,11. or. .1.. .. r 41. n
War, Kathorcd hero to-day for
union. Nearly a scoro of the
. i. . i. .. ,i . . . .. .
nR. Miiinn ill wiiiuii jinn iiiil into.
other for many years, hold a
fit at the Pavilion Hotel nnd en-
automobllo rides In cars fur-
1 by local neonle.
HOLD JOINT REUNION.
x Junction. July 12, Tho 13th Ver-
rtegimental association nnd tho
i Vermont Itoslmontal association
ss moetlns will bo hold at 10:::0
t. The Indies of tho Relief Corps
.ndlfs of tho a, A. 11, will servo
i& 12:50 o'clock,
OTIAT 0
PUTE
VERMONT LAUDED IN
GLOWING SPEECHES
BY EMINENT MEN
Nation and State Well
Meeting- of Greater Vermont Association and
Celebration of 125th Anniversary of State
hood at Montpeiier State's Remarkable
History, Its Promising Future, Its Possibili
ties and Its Needs, Eloquently Discussed by
Director General John Barrett, Admiral
Robert E. Peary, Theodore N. ' Vail, Col.
Georg-e Harvey, Gov. Samuel W. McCall and
Others.
Moatpal'.OP. July IS. With OVer a I
score of notnble fruests, native sons
and men prominent in State and na-
tional aflalrs. and with all of tho I ernmcnts and tho actual residents of
LTMr"S, . 7, in. h0 stat0 1 Xow n,,,llaml- h"A u y lho
e a nu' no "' '"' nnd material support of the sons of this
t,Z L r " f , th, ?rfin,"r k'cl" who "avo Kon beyond its borders,
of tho State's 1", M ?r1,brnt,"n ho.,IU leave no effort nevlected to im
In wh S l birthday. an Lrovo , thn ,,, hP1It f attractlvo.
event which has been awaited with I nMa ., v, w ..w
much anticipation for many weeks,
opened at two o'clock this afternoon
In tho armory with President Fred
erick K. Babbitt of Ilellows Falls pre
siding, diaries Oleed of Kansan City,
Mo., a former resident of Morrlsvilie
and a prominent lawyer In the West,
was the opening spenkor of tho after
noon session. He enrno as tho result
of a telegraphic invitation from Theo
dore X. Vail of I.yndonvtlle nnd with
out belntr Informed as to the puiposo
of the meetlnfr was informed that his
subject would relate to Vermont his- ,
tory.
Tho other speakers at tho after- I
noon session were ex-Gov. K. C. Smith
of St. Albans, president of the Cen- 1 bomes of the farmers should be char
tral A'ermont system, Admiral Itobert notorized by a tidiness nnd thrift nnd
Penry of tho United States navyja combining of the practical and beau
and John Parrott, dlroctor-genoral of tlful which in the end brings both
tlio Pan-Amorlcan concresa. Maior-
Oon. Leonard Wood of tho United
States army wired his regrets last
evening, his important duties at thla
time bolntr such us to prevent his
traveling any proat distance. Another
who was unable to bo present was
Carl Vrooman, United States assistunt
secretary of agriculture
EX-CrOVUHN'OR SMITir.
In tho courso of hlB remarks about
Vermont, ex-Oovornor Smith said:
Thu first essential of success In tho
organization of a community Is a
basis of taxation that Is fair and
sane. Until 1S80 tho burden of sup
porting tho Stato wa.1 then borno rat
flMv l.i, ,.11 ..11
, ' ' wi nun..; ,L.or.lers and has the necessary means,
but about that time a different policy j should make sure that his old home
was adopted and the Stato departed ton,l and his old home town are The
from its long time system of levying , bonHlrlnrl of his Interest his Income
a general property tax and Inaugurat- ,lmI hs (1I1CPStr!l, Vh ,
ed a new system of mak ng ono por- roi.i..r. ..r i- . . I.
tlon of thn members of society bear l.o .1,1 , , , ,
tho burden of the balance of tho mem- P'0" ' " "U n,y olcome such
bers. Certain of tho corporations 'h"o d , "" b,,t
wero thereafter taxed to pay ex- ' " . I P"rt PXtPn,ll"ff
penses; expenses have gradually In- !', ' ,klnd nf wrlcnm "nd reclproca
crcased and thn praetlco of making'.." T"r this n"t"''o- I.t not only
ono branch of society carry tho ex- I ) ,-'n"""'s nctlve population of nearly
penso of tho State organization for all ' r '"'"'Ired thousand but Its entire
Its members Is precisely tantamount "utI'"t of "'" 'il women at home and
to the proposition of living on other I l"'yn11'1 lts ""i.lnnn. numbering prob
people's money. Living on other peo- n,,1" eight hundred thousand, work
pie's money Inevitably leads to oxtrav-fnr ""' Kood of tho Stato along those
aganoe and extravagance Inevitably i "nps. and wo will win tho admiration
leads to wasto. of thn nntlnn, and the world, and set
Tho speaker, roferrlng to tho Increased
expendlturea of tho Stato, paid the
changed condition Is clearly tracoablo to
the fact that tho State has departed
from a right principle and adopted a
wrong ono.
Tho l.eRlslature under tho now order
of affairs was given tho power to put
tho hand of tho Stato into tho treasury
of four cln-sses of its citizens nnd draw
therefrom whatover tho State wanted to
spend.
ProshUitit Smith gave statistics show
ing that tho population of tho Stato has
not Increased rapidly enough to war
rant tho increased expenses. Tho fault
does not llo at tho doora of tho State
officials, whoso strict Integrity and
honesty Is not questioned, but sololy with
tho system. Not until the Ixiglslaturo
finds Its way back to tho broad and
ancient highway of fair dealing will the
gates of a greater Vermont over opoti
for Its people to walk therein. Tho mat
ter of savings banks deposits being used
to dovelop tho rebourcos In tho Stato In
stead of being Invested In western
mortgages wius also touched upon.
Presldont Smith turned from his dis
cussion of political economy to touch
upon politics, saying that ho bolloved
high offices In Vermont should bo kept
for Vormonters. This doctrine ought to
bo a principle of Stato policy at all times,
Vermont should bo povonicd at nil tlmos
by tmo Vonnontors. The speaker upheld
tho tradition of tho mountain rulo and
urged tho people not to abandon It. To
tho mountain line, moro than to nny
othor factor, Is duo the glorious record
of this Stato In tho affairs of tho na
tion. JOHN I3A.Ttn.KTT.
Director- donem! Uarrett spoko of a
Clreater Now Kngland and a Greater Ver
mont In pnrt as follows:
"Thero Is no question whatever In tho
mind of Impartial observers of tho situa
tion that tho timo Is not far distant when
thero will bo no such thing as a desorted
farm In Vermont nnd Ito surrounding sec
tions. All tho world Is realizing that
thero aro conditions of living, climate,
poll and physical possibilities which wero
novor appreciated In the old days. The
mon of Vermont and Now Kngland who
have gone forth throughout thonatlon and
tho world, to mako good havo bcon so
successful in all lines of activity that tho
opinion Is unanimous that thoro Is not a
part of tho United States, or of tho world,
whoro bottor. sturdier mon and women
nro raised than hero. A certificate of
iblrth in Vermont, arul a diploma from a
ropronontntlvo educatonal Institution of
Now Kngland nro pawsportn everywhere
to tho best opportunities und to perma
nent employment,
"it on thlo occasion I c jvUtAAjuAo.,
Represented at Annual
tlcal SlltJL-evtlon ami rmmmn,l..,llnn
based upon my travel and observation a
a son of Vermont. It Is that tho State irov.
ness and eflVclency tho physical advan
tages which nature has irlvcn this State
and section. Oood roads should bo built
everywhere. They should bo not only
built, but kept continually In the best con
dition. Especially should tho mountain
sections be parked and boulovarded llko
similar sections of Kuropo. A creator na
tlvo population, a Kreatcr influx of out
siders and a greater number of visitors
would result. Tho forests should be
carefullv conserved nnd worked under
wlf0 llir0(',l"n, and forever mado a source
f ''0,!' beauty and revenue as hns been
done, and Is belns done, in many Ihiro-
ncan Innda.
"Towns and villages and In turn the
population and prosperity. The moun
tain streams and the creeks and rivers
of tho valleys should be safeguarded
against pollution, Hood and drouth.
The condition of Industries and the
employment of labor therein as well ns
upon the farms should be the subject
of constant attention and Importance.
"Public spirit, already greatly ad
vanced over what It was years ago,
should become such a dominant char
acteristic that thero will bo "team
play" every whore for a newer and
greater and more attractlvo and a
more prosperous Vermont and New
England. Kvery son of Vermont and
N'ew Kngland, who IIvps beyond tholr
. '
111,1 nxamphj that other States and sec-
tlons will Inevitably follow.
ADMIRAL PKARY TALKS DKFKNSR.
Admiral Robert K. Pear', aftor re
ferring to tho Monroe doctrine and the
part It has played In tho nation's his
tory discussed defense plans for the
country. Ho advocated having a fleet of
3." dreadnoughts eventually, constructing
10 Immediately for service In tho Atlantic"
and P.ncillc which with tho smaller
ships would placo tho country In second
place among tho world powers. We
should have an aerial servlco superior
to all others, an aerial school to In
struct young mon much tho samo as a
chauffers' school and a military Bya
tom modolod after that of Switzerland
or Australia, not compulsory but of such
a naturu that ten million mon might
bo put In tho field in hours. Throa
days' expense of tho Europeim war would
placo tho Unltod States In tho front
placo aa a fighting power; two days'
oxpenso would provide an aorlal fleet
In advanco of that of any othor coun
try, and ono day's expense would estab
lish a model military system. Ho urgoJ
a strong coast defense with noroplano
patrols at regular Intervals.
LAROK ATTI1NDANCK AT HANQUKT
The speakers this evening at tho
banquet hebl In tho nudltorlum of tho
city ball, at which plates wero laid
for 700, the balcony being filled with
at least a thousand more, mostly
ladles, wero ns fellows: flenrgo Har
vey, editor of the North American Re
view, toastmastnr: Kdward A. Fllene
of tho Huston Chamber nf Commorco;
James H. Ilustls, president of tho
Boston oi Maine system: Theodore N.
Vail of Lyndonvllln; C.ov. Samuel W.
McCall of Massachusetts; Wendell
Phillips Stafford, Judge of the Supremo
Court of the District of Columbia.
Those In rluirgo of tho banquet were
forced to reject all applications lor
tickets received last evening, being
unable to nccommodnto over a hun
dred moro who impressed a desire for
tickets.
TO A HTM A ST KR HARVK V.
Col, OoorRn Harvey presided as
toastmaster. llo spoko In part as fol
lows: "Wo frequently hear this land of
ours refened to as God's country. To
mo from boyhood tho term hns seem
ed very real and as I glow older It
tnkos to Itself a deeper meaning, Re
cently In particular It has acquired a
fresh and impelling significance. How
does it happen that we alono of all
mighty peoples havo not been drawn
Into tlio awful whirlpool of Inexpllca
blo slaughter? Can moro geogrnphl-
Can,tinn4 aajiMMB XouxX,
DEUISCU IS
GETTING READY
FOR RETURN TRIP
Declaration of Her Status as
Merchantman Apparently hut
Mere Formality Which Will
Be Observed Soon.
WILL TIE ON CilRGQ TO-DAY
News Reaches Washington That
Big Submarine Was Convoyed
by Neutral Merchantman
Allied War Vessels Now
Searching for Convoy Ship.
Baltlmoro, Mfl.. July 12. That plans
wero afoot rapidly to ro-load tho su
persubmorslblo Doutschland and slip
hor out speedily on her return voy
age to Germany was Indicated to
night. A special pormlt was obtained
for continuing the unloading of tho
vessel to-night and It was expected
that sho would bo ready by dawn to
morrow to begin taking on a cargo of
nickel and rubber.
No ono In authority would say when
tho vessel would depart and the only
positive statement In that connection
was obtained In Captain Koonlg's
declaration to tho local customs offi
cers that ho expected to sail "with
in 10 days." Tho tug Thomas P. Tlm
mons comploted repairs to-day nnd
took up a position In front of tho
Deutschland. When the Tlmmons en
tered dry dock it was reported that
Bho was getting ready to return to
Virginia capes to convoy into the
Chesapeake, as sho did tho Deutsch
land, tho submarine Bremen, which
Is said to be four days on her way
to this country.
Two cars of ir.,000 gallons each of
lubricating and fuel oil wore ordered
for tho Doutschlrtnd . last Monday.
When they had not arrived to-day a
"hurry up" trucor was sent out by the
railroad company at tho instnnco of
tho submarine's agents.
Washington, July 12. Although
stato department o.-ls virtually
aro convinced that tno German sub
marine Deutschland is strictly a mer
chant vessel, the advlco of the neutral
ity board probably will bo sought be
foro a final ruling Is made.
Acting Secretary Polk Indicated to
day that thu ruling would not bo de
layed long and It may bo announced
to-moirow. It is understood he con
siders that there Is nothing lucklng
to establish the Deutschlurnl'n status
as a peaceful merchantman and de
sires to consult the neutrality board
only in order to give added weight to
tho department's formal decision.
Diplomats of tho allied countries re
ceived Information during the day In
dicating that tho Doutschland was con
voyed from Iiremcn almost to the Chesa
peako capes by a neutral morchnntm.ui,
presumably Norwegian, Swedish or
Dutch, which aided In shielding her from
detection by enemy wnrbhips and also
noted as a tender. This Information may
bo communicated later to tho stato de
partment and an Investigation requetsed.
Allied warships aro said now to bo
searching for the convoy ship.
Tho stato department already has
besun consideration of questions Involv
ing tho departure of the Doutschland. To
prevent violation of neutrality by for
warding nf military information from
this country regarding the Doutscbland's
movements, ofllrlals aro considering
whether tho government should prevent
dissemination of news of her sailing.
Thn state department to-dny formally
denied published reports that It would
nut bo concerned If tho Deutschland
should be attacked and sunk In viola
tion of International law by hostllo war
ships after leaving the Pnltod States. It
was stated that the government la in
lerested in nil matters.
ELECT OFFICERS OF
VT. SOLDIERS' HOME
Bennington, July 12. Tho annual meet
ing of tho trustees of tho Vermont Sol
diers' Homo van held hero to-day. Two
new trustees wero elected, W. II. II, Slack
of Sprlngtlold succeeding tho late Justus
M. Dartt of the samo town, and F. B.
Bowman of Randolph to fill tho vacancy
cnused by tho death of Captain P. S.
Chnmlwrlntn of Bradford.
Tho ofllcers ro-cloctcxl nre ns follows:
Preslrcnt. Hugh Henry of Chester; sec
rotary, K. J, Ormsbco of Brandon; treas
urer, Charles K. Reach nf Buillngtnn;
auditor, H, T. Ciishman of North Ben
nington; surgeon, Dr. L. II. Ross of Ben
nington; ehaplan, the Rev, P. L. Dow of
Bonnlngton; superintendent, Thomas
Ilannon; matron, Mrs. Hannon.
WHITE LOSES SUIT.
Sought tenno of HiiMiiril l.iiVarne for
Alleged Minuting Aorlilrnl.
Mlddlebury, July 12. A verdict in
favor of tho defendant In the caso of
Ira AVhlto vs. Howard I.aVarno wns
returned In Addli"'" county court yes
terday, White riifd t"r $2,000 dam
ages for alleged Injuries to an eye on
October 5, lPlfi, nt Bristol, whllo hunt
ing with the defendant.
Tho cases of W. H. Dean vs. Herbert
A. Culson nnd W- l'""" vs. Adol
phus Culson, et al., both foreclosure
suits, concernlnp property on Lako
Dunmore, were taken up to-day.
MONEY' FOR RKFUOKKS.
Washington, .'' 12 Tho House
bill npproprlatlnC $300,000 for the ro
lief of needy American refugees from
Mexico was pail-dl to-day by tho
HAPPENINGS IN VT.;
NEWS BY COUNT
M1DDLEBURY.
Cards haH been received announcing
thn mnrrlngo of Miss Kllzabeth Howies
and Prof. Vernon Charles Harrington
of Mlddlebury College nt Amherst,
Mass., July fi. They will bo at home
111 Mlddlebury after November . A
son, John Wren, was born to Profes
sor nnd Mrs. J. Allen Morgnn Thurs
day morning. Word hns been received
of thn marriage of Miss Grace Hut
tolph and William II. Kldrldgo of Twin
Falls, Idaho, In Chicago, July H. Aftor
a 10 clays' visit In Chicago Mr. atul
Mrs. Kldrldgo will come Mast for a
month with relatives In Mlddlebury,
Mr. nnd Mrs. V. J, Fnrnsworth,
Mr. and Mrs. Klroy Darnnally
nnd Mr. nnd Mrs. Horneo A.
Johnsworth of Worcester. Mnss.. are
here on nn automobile trip, going to
tho While mountains. Prof. K. D, CM-
llns went to P.randon Saturday and '
condiioted services in the Union Churc h ! William 1 1. Cobb and Chester K. KImer
Sunday Mr. and Mrs. George Kemperlhavo gone to ntiillngtcin to attend the
of Concord, N. II., are visiting In town ' meeting of tho Army of thn Potomac.
for a short time. Miss Helen Frost, I Tho meeting of the Mlddlebury Orango
who ha.c been visiting at the home of I Friday night will bo In the hands of tho
her grandparents, Mr. and Mrs. James I past masters and their wives. Mrs. Wll
Tlnnlon, in Plttsford for HI days, has I llam laekay and daughler, Patricia, of
returned home. .Mrs. Fordyce Monro, j 'New York are visiting nt the home of
who has been nt the Mary Fletcher
hospital for a few days, has returned
to town. John S. Shaw of Woybrldge
has been appointed superintendent of
Mechanics' hull at the Addison county
fair grounds to succeed the late Wil-
liam M. Jackson, who filled the posl-
tlon for many years. Mr. Shaw has
had a wide experience In the handling
agricultural lnacninery. unaries
Halpln and Ml.ss Agnes Hnlpln, who
wore called hero by the serious illness
of their father. Michael Halpln. have
returned to Bridgeport. Conn. Mrs.
Isaac Shackett an.l children have Knno
to Troy, .. II.. to visit for a few
weeks. Miss Frances II. Stewart of1
Now York city is the guest of hor
aunt, Mrs. M. A. Munroe. A. D. Vlt-1
tuni hns returned from Mineville, N. Y ,
whoro he participated in the enmmun-l
lty celebration and In the Judging of,
tho bands in Kssic and Clinton coun-i
ties. Jo.ioph Nash, mall messenger I
between the depot and tho postolllec,
has leslgned his position owing to 111
henlth. Proposals will be received f(ir
carrying tho mails between the depot
and postofueo by the postmaster until
July 17. Tenny Saunders, who hnt
been at tho home of Mr. and Mrs. K
M. Saunders for n week, has returned
to New York city. Miss Bertha Far -
roll has returned from Saratoga, N. Y., . the heat and fell, striking on his head
where sho has been for a week to land shoulders. He was rendered un
vlait hor sister, Mrs. Burnard Kav- conscious, but escaped with slight
anaugh. Prof. J. Parker Williamson bruises, and tho shock of the fall.
of Paris, a former resident. Is In town
for a few weeks. Mrs. O. K. Chllson
has gone to Camp Martin, Milton,
whoro sho will spend a month. Mr.
Chllson will go Mondny, July 1
After a recess of nine days the woik of
tho Juno term of thu Addison county court j Marcelllne Laushway of the University
was resumed nt two o'clock Monday aft-, of Vermont hns gone to Cliff Haven,
ornoon. Tho Jury and criminal enws "car Plattsburgh. N. Y whoro sho will
having been disposed of beforo the long oe employed for tho summer. Mrs.
recess, only court cases are loft fur con- Kllzabeth King and little son of Un
sldoratlon, the parties having agreed to j derhlll are the guests of Mr. and Mrs.
court trials Instead of jury hearings. The J"6!''' Hamel. The Misses Footo of
first case was that of Ira Whllo vs. Cornwall are visiting Mr. and Mrs,
Howard La Varne. an action of tort, in i Henry O. Fisher. Merrltt B. Hurd and
which the plaintiff asks all tho damages
ho may be ablo to get for nn Injury to his
right eyeallegedandndmltted to have been
inflicted by tho defendant on Sunday, Oc
tober 5, 1P13, whon tho two parties, both
of whom belong In Bristol, had gono out
on a hunting trip.
Thero was a largo crowd of pleasure
hunting people at Moehan's Park, Lako
Dunmore, Sunday to take In tho bnseball
game between tho Burlington team of tho
Vermont State League and tho Midline-
bury
picked-up" team. Burllncton won
I .... i , n ,1, .l.l.lll
U .111; Mini- in -t lu o. tu in ... ii H. I iji ' 11 1 ) n
score were mado In the Ilrst Inning. Den
ning and Hamilton wero tho battery for
Burlington, nnd Brlckott nnd Mott for
Mlddlebury. Ml?s Ida Dragon returned
Monday from tho Fanny Allen hospital,
wnoro sno nns teen lor tnreo weeKS, 101
lowlng an operation for nppondlcltls, from
which sho Is convalescing favorably. The
banns of marriage wero published lit St.
Mnry's Catholic Church Sunday between
Bruno Albert, formerly of Burlington nnd
Wlnooskl, and Miss Mary Goe, a daughter
of tho Into Bonus Geo of Mlddlobury.-Mr.
and Mrs. Stanton Johndro and children,
who have been In town to visit Mrs. L.
M. Morrison aro going to mnko a few
days' stay with relatives in Snllsbury,
after which they will go to Barre. Mass,
whoro Mr. Johndro, who has been princi
pal of Bellows Freo Academy, Fairfax, for
two years, bos taken a similar position.
Chnrlos M. Powers, who has been mak-
lug n week's visit to his aunt, Miss Lucy
Tenney, returned Sunday to his homo In
Bennington Mr. nnd Mrs. Albert W.
Vnrnoy of Bennington nie In town to visit
Mrs. Vnrney's mother, Mrs. Mary Bond.
VMr. Vnrnoy Is a giaduato of Mlddlebury
College, class of lSSil, and has been prin
cipal of tho Bennington high school for
1.' years. John Glancy who has been a
resident of the town for two years, has
completed his engagement and has gone
to Lowell, Mnss. Mr. and Mrs. K. W. Fol
low!! of Springfield nre hero on a visit and
will stay a month or two, Toussalnt Kid
dor and grandson, Georg Kidder, Jr.,
have rouo to Shrrhrooko, Can., where thay
wero called by th dentil of Mrs.
Kidder's sister JCdward Wlckson leaves
Thursdny for Mount Pleasant, Iowa,
where ho has a position as a shep
herd. Ills family will remain hero for
tho proFcnt. Dr. A. D. Barter and family
havo returned from nn automobile trip
In northern Now Y'ork nnd Vermont. Miss
Jennie Woods has returned from Boston,
Mnss., where he has spout the past few
weeks with relatives nnd friends. Mon
day, market day, eggs brought S to 21
cents and butter 12 to 21. iMark Turner
and his brother, Iaoii Turner, have gono
to Hoston, whore they will et an auto,
mobile. In which they will return, Chun
nlng Gieen him returned from Brockton,
Mass., where ho has spent a few weeks
Tho Ilrst open air meeting of tho Memo
rial Baptist Church wns held in tho rear
of tho chin eh Sunday evening and was
well attended. Tho Rev. Mr. Whittlninio
olllclaled The services will continue dur
ing the next two months weather permit
ting, beginning at live o'clock. Miss Jo
sephine Counter has gono to Burlington
for a week's visit.
Mrs. Adell Mack of Salsbury, who ban
'boon In town for a fow days, visiting hor
JLbIsIe, JUrs. Jamea McQUclicy, fell and
!l,0IO
fhroko her right leg Just above tho knee.
In Soptembor her left kneo Joint was put
out of place. Whllo hero shn called In
Dr. Eddy, who was trcatng her, nnd at
tho tlmo of tho accident sho was trying
to walk on a pair nf crutches. Sho was
taken to tho Mary Fletcher hospital, be
ing convoyed thoro In tho A. J. Hlackmer
nutomnbllo ambulance, accompanied by
her son, John Mack of Salisbury. Harry
Vassau of Proctor Is In town for a few
daya at tho homo of his parents, Mr. and
Mrs. Fred Vassau. Joseph Carron and
daughter went to Rutland Wedncsdav
morning, called by the Illness of Mrs.
Carron, who was taken suddenly 111 Tues
day evening Just beforo the train wan
about to start north. Sho wan removed
to tho Kutlnnd city hnspltnl. It Is thought
sho hnd an nttaek of heart trouble or wnn
overcomo with the heat. Mark and Leon
Turner have returned from Hoston, wbeie
they wont after an automobile, which
they drove home. Clyde Rain, a student
nt an art school In Washington, D C, hns
arrived home to spend MIS vacation with
Wh parents, Mr. and Mrs. Homer llaln.-
i Mrs. D. K. Ross. Mr. and Mrs. Arthur
iLvman and Mrs. Thomas Rragg and
daughter, who hnvo been visiting at tho
homo of Mr. and Mrs. D. K. Ross for 10
days, havo returned to Rutland. Truman
L. Kella has returned from Burlington,
whero ho has been to visit his sister, Mrs.
,Tnmf.s Fletcher of Rrldnort. who recently
,,,, a Ff.,.ioU(, operation performed nt the
Mnn. i.nc(ru.r hospltal.-IIlram Winch
1 ,, hf) vounc frnn ,vlin ,,nVp Wn 1)f,ro
, fop n wpek nt th(1,r f(irmPr hnlPi ,lave
rptllnlP(1 , icimnt.-.Mr. and Mrs. John
w. Marshall of Washington, D. r , with
r tlnu htpr M,s! Acn Mslrsha1Ii nrn
,,., , ..,,, Ir,n
returned from tho Fanny Allen hospital
iMnnday after an operatnn for appendi
citis, Is not so well as she was when she
first returned and Is again under a phy
sician's care. 'Mr. and Mrs. Hllnrv Kiln
worth of Troy, X. Y., are visiting In
town. Dr. A. D. Barter nnd son, Web
ster havo gone to Providence, R. 1.,
to nttend the National Optometrlcal Cin-
gi ess oi mo American upuca, assonanon.
' T,lc' w' aIso m;lUo a icw la's stop In
, Boston.
VERGENNES.
I Whllo loading hay Friday afternoon
1 Georgo E. Perkins was overcome by
Miss Marjorle Grlnnoll of Tlconderoga,
N. Y Is visiting her sister. Miss Cath
erine Grlnnoll, at tho home of J. M.
Adams. Prof, and Mr-. P. C. Iluvt nnd
I son, Murray, are spending tho sum-
I mer at their cottage at tho lake. Miss
. fJorgo W. Hlndes have been appointed
commissioners of the estnto of Gideon
1 w- Norton. Miss Mary Hartley, who
has been spending two weeks with her
mother, Mrs. J. J. Hartley, has return
ed to Bridgeport. Conn. Mrs. J. S.
Walker, who has been spending the
winter nnd hpring In Windsor with her
son. Supt. It. II. Walker of tho Wind
sor Stato prison, Is at tho homo of her
daughter, Mrs. George Jackson. Mrs.
R. A. Footo Is vialtlng her nephew.
llnn-nl.il U'ln.lnlir of ll'f.of T? .1 a ,w!
' ,, . ,. , . ' ,, ... ' .
...... , .-,. ... . ' w...
wall to vli.lt her brother, F. K. Foote.
Miss Elizabeth Walker of Saranac
Luke, N, Y., Is visiting her sister.
i Mrs. Georgo Jackson. A son was born
i.-r(iaJ. tll jjr
i jp,s' Jminie M
nnd Mrs. Loon Sorrell.
Hoilsklns and Frank
and Krwln Falkenburg of Whitehall,
N. Y.. are guests of Mr. and Mrs. Wil
liam Pearson. Charles Hartley of
Brllgeport, Conn., Is spending two
weeks with his mother, Mrs. J. J.
Hartley. Miss Annie Oliver of Spring-
field, Mass., Is visiting her mother,
Mrs. Josephine Oliver. Dr. C It.
Heecher of Burlington was In town
Saturday in consultation with Dr. F.
C. Phelps In tho rases of Mrs. C. T. S.
Pierce and Miss Mat tie Barnard, Ex
Mayor John A. Ilnrrlngton nnd daugh
ter, Miss Ruth, left Saturday night to
visit Attorney and Mrs. S. B. Bostford.
Whllo absent Mr. Harrington will at
tend the Imperial Council, Nobles of
j Mystic Shrine, who will hold their
meeting nt Humtlo tills week.
Mrs. David K. Byan and throe chll
dren visited her father, Jacob Auuch
inan of Orwell Sunday. Miss Adella
Ingham, assistant librarian nt tho
lilxby Memorial Free library, is spend
ing her vacation at Mount Mansfield.
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Fox of
Schenectady, N, Y., are visiting her
mother, Mrs, Emily Miller. 1'iederlck
L. Fish, who graduated in Juno from
Mlddlebury College, and Donald Nor
ton of Dartmouth College nre nt the
Plattsburgh Military camp for six
weeks. Prof, nnd Mrs. Samuel J.
Preston of Whlto . Plnlns, N. X., nre
spending two months at their cottage
at the lake. Dr. and -Mrs. John Cnlsse
of Swanton wero week-end visitors at
the home of his parents, Mr. nnd Mrs.
C. II. Cnlsse. MIfs Cornelia Scranton
went Sunday to New Y'ork city to visit
relatives. F. W. I'lngg and Joseph
Montgomery visited friends in Bur
lington Sunday. Mis. Fred Lailue Is
quite ill and a tinlncd nurse is caring
for her.- Mrs. W. L. Coley and son,
Robert, have returned from a visit to
her parents, Mr. and Mrs. II. F. Leach,
of Fairfax. The Rev. Thomas Steven
sou and daughler, Miss Gladys, left
Tuesday for Chestertown, N. Y.. to visit
former parishioners of Mr. Stevenson,
llo will return on Friday, but the
daughter will remain for sovernl
weeks. Dr. nnd Mrs. Frank M. Rog
ers and children wero In Burlington
i.Moiiday John I.o Iloeiif and daugh
ter. .Minion, visited friends In BiiiIIiik
tou .Sunday, Eggs brought 25 cents
per dozen In the wholesale) market
yesterday, Louis Banyea of Keene,
N. H who has been visiting his sister,
Mrs. Julia Geror, has guno to High-
(Continued on pnite tiro.)
BRITISH FORCES
Aitmo')
dull SCORE GAINS
Teutons Driven from Mameta
Wood Which They Entered
Tuesday Night British Still
Hold Contalmaison.
FRENCH ARMY IS RESTING
Bitter and Heavy Fishtinff
Keeps Up around Verdun
Germans Undertake Strong
Offensive toward Fort Sou
ville a Strategic Point.
London. July 12. Fighting desper
ately In the faco of determined Gorman
.attneksi. the forces under General Halg
succeeded Wednesday In gnlnliig- con
trol of the entlro Mnmctz wood which
had been entered tho previous night
by tho Gormnns. In tho same region
north of thn Sommo, tho British maxlo
snino progress In tho Trones wood and
and repulsed two heavy attacks against
Contalmaison. The Germans aro re
ported to have lost heavily In their
attacks on Trones wood.
The French and German forces south
of tho Sommo apparently aro resting1,
as there has been almost no activity
In that region of Picardy slnco tha
first of tho week.
Around Verdun, however, nrud espe
cially on tho right bank of tho Mouse,
bitter and heavy fighting Is In prog
ress between tho forces of tho Ger
man crown price and tho Fronch do
fendors of tho fortress. Tho Germans,
following up their success In tho re
gion of tho Damloup battery, havo un
dertaken a strong offonslvo toward
Fort Souvllle, the possession of which
would strength their poslton for a
further advance on Verdun.
Attacking in mnss formation from
the village of Floury and tho Chapitro
and Vaux woods, tho Germans gained
ground at the Intersection of the
Fleiiry and Vaux roads. Tho gain,
however, Paris asserts, was made at
the cost of "enormous losses." Vio
lent bombardments continue In th
region of Souvllle, Shenols and La
Laufee. There was relative calm on
the left bank of tho Mouse.
Tho fierce fighting which has mark
ed the Russian advanco across the
Stokhod river toward Kovel appears
to have quieted down. Petrognad says
there has been fighting on this sector
but mentions only two minor attacks
by the Gormnns, which, It adds, wero
repulsed. Thero hns been somo ac
tivity north of tho Stokhod n-Rlon, but
In Bitknwlna nnd Gallcla tho advanco
of General Rrusslloffs troops, seom to
havo halted for tho moment.
Tho Russians have met with success In
Armenia and report the capture of Mama
khatun Bo miles west of Err.erum and
about tho snmn dstanco from Erzlngan,
tho ohjectivo of the Russian drtvo In this
direction. Tho Turkish forces. In re
treating from tho town which was taken
by assault, set It on tiro.
Fighting continues nt Isolated points on
tho Austro-Itallan front and Bomo re
ports somo successes In tho Adlgo valley
and tho recapturo in part of position on
Monto Cnrnn. Thero woro artlllory bom
rardments by both sides at other point
on this front. Vienna claims the ropulsa
of a strong Italian attack on fllbnto Basto,
south of Sugana valley.
CIRCUS DETECTIVE
SUED FOR $5,000
llnnium A Ilnlley .linn Alleged; in Hun
Partlnlly llllmlrd nn Emplore,
Rutland, July 12. As tha outcom
of an alleged assault which took place
while the circus waH at White River
Junction H. W. Black, chief detective
for the Rarnum & Bailey outfit, was
arrested In this city after tho per
formance Tuesday night by Deputy
Sheriff II. R. Adams nn a. ohil writ
lj.siied on complaint of Irving Smith,
a colored employe of the show. Smith,
seeks to recover $5,000 from the de
tective clnlmlng that he lost the sight
of one eyo by reason of cuts from
broken glasses when Black struck;
him with brass knuckles.
Smith had engaged Attorneys Thos.
II Browne and Ernest IL O'Brien of
tills city and had consulted. Dr. O. G.
Marshall, an eye specla'lst. IIo waa
about to leave town and was arrested
ns an absconding debtor, IIo claimed
thnt ho had no money, hut after seven
hours In Jail remetnbored a. roll In his
stocking nnd this morning 'bought his
liberty on payment of $50.
J
RARRE RATHER
DROWNED IN RIVER .
Archie l.rolnlr, Granite Cutter, IM
iioil with Crumps.
Montpcller, July 12. Archlo Leclalr of
Barre, a granite cutter employed In tha
Central Granite plant, was drowned thla
afternoon In tho Wlnooskl river near
tho Tennoy company plant on tho East
Montpeiier rond. He was In bathing with
two companions and was probably taken
with cramps. A pulmotor wns rushod to
the sceno but offorts to save tho young
man's llfo woro unavailing.
PKNSION FOR BOYD'S WIDOW.
Washington. July 12. Senntor Rood
Introduced a bill to-dny to provide fop
payment of $12. a month to tha
widow, daughter and son of Capt.
Charles T. Boyd of tho Tenth cavalry,
killed at Cnriizal, Mexico.
Wnnt-ndvcrtlslng is nover found "tranU
!ne" when applied to fair test,
AGAINST GERMANS
