8 PAGES
SB-
ESTABLISHED
1
GERMAN jtf ARRIVES
Big German Submarine Freighter,
with Valuable Cargo of Dyes
has Arrived at Baltimore.
length
nounced
that
if
ocean
h,iS
ninety miles.
v.
,go hundreds ofmilesout
course in the Atlantic because of But
ish warships. That is not so. Why
should we go out of our course, ex-
"Throughout the entire trip the of
ficers and crew were in excellent
health and spirits. Of course, when
we were under water for long spells
the air got very stuffy sometimes, and
there was some inconvenience, but it
never was serious. The Deutschland
is built to stay under water for four
consecutive days, and we never reach
ed anywhere near our submersion
limit on this voyage
the first day, but on the second day
in'the North Sea we were in the zone
of the British cruisers and destroy
ers. We sighted their smoke fre
quently* but only dived when we
thought there was danger of our be
ing detected. Of course we were dif-
ficult to
Many persons were skeptical when seldom necessary to go mor
it was announced that Germany was fifty feet below the surface
sending a big submarine freighter to The captain paid high tiibute to
America, and the report was scoffed the crew and his fellow officeis. The
at, but all doubts were dispelled when chief engineer is Klees.
the submarine dropped anchor at Bal- I Captain Konig said the greatest
timore on Sunday. The vessel the credit for the success of the
Deutschland carried a cargo of 1,000 voyage should be given to Engineer
tons of dye stuffs and was unarmed, Klees.
and will return with a cargo of Arner- I "He is most entitled to the credit,
ican products. She carried a crew of he added, "and I depend upon him
twenty-nine men, is over 300 feet in every minute of the day and night.
and has a tonnage of 791 tons As he ended the interview the cap
net The captain
of
the Germans have broken, the
blockade established by the Allies.
The vessel sailed from Helgoland on
^lVi^bfnHnln?hpVmftire tdn
smoke. We did submerge several i.
times in the North Sea, staying under
going.
straight through the English Chan-
nel which
ed.
less. Everytime we came to the sur- S
We saw no
is alive with warships and
on the night of the fourth day we
night on the
Xj.,
ground, on the bottom of
the channel. There were lots of
*did we carry money or securities
fe' oq any oil here. We have enough
left to take us home and I want to
.9
Wif^WW
capes, that is if British warships do
not break neutrality and come within
the three mile limit to attack us. How
soon we shall leave I do not know,
but we will be ready as soon as we
get a cargo."
Captain Konig said that the
Deutschland was bulLtxfor submersion
to a depth of a00 feet, but that it was
more than
the vessel an- tain said he expected the next sub-
Captain Konig's own story of the £*m
Deutsehland^d'oj'age^v^acrc^s blow received the heart in
the"
dared that duiing the entire tup me cpt tnn ivrr T^lovd de
vessel .raveled submersed only about,
^nhiVtTri
other submarines would marine merchantman to reach the for Albany or Bethany, Mo., and at
follow him to America, and it seems United States withing eight weeks. each town along the route speakers
as
Seriously Injured by Friendly lilow.
pearj fcnown Le(m
aftpr lie made public friendly scuffle with his friend, Jack
after he maae puonc tre.ira.^P mnn
gently, and Saturday morning dur
.JjSft p-U- ff
"The ship is much easier to ride in near marring the day's
tice trips on the Deutschland. Ion the bank, but pretty well exhaust
"Everything went without incident
Pearl made a lunge at him, and the
it was thougllt that the
At the time
wind had just
knQcked out of Pearl and he
pStanTn?ottgeffectivet wa^ToTet !als ?re ejecting to make it a record
out of our course. Besides it is much
•easier to submerge.
"We came to Hampton Roads by
the straight course from the English
Channel. We do not come by the way
of Azores. Altogether, from Helgo
land to Baltimore we covered 3,800
miles. Of that distance ninety miles unfortunate
"was driven under the surface of the {in* along nice umortunat
termination of this scuffle has been a
source of great grief to Mr. Lloyd,
who greatly regrets the accident, as
he and Mr. Craig are very close
friends.
Narrow Escapes from Drowning.
The German commander talked visiting at the home of his father-in-i at each place.
with the smiling enthusiasm of a law, J. A. Harris, was able to reach I The General Coleman DuPont par
child and his eyes* fairly glittered as the lad and carry him out before he ty, on a sociability run to the rellow
he related the principal incidents of went under for the last time. A stone Park, will be in the Twin Cities
his remarkable feat. I short time later Miss Jessica Pryor the same week, and arrangements are
"There is little to tell of the trip," 'stepped off into a deep hole and was
he continued. "We left Helgoland on jn danger of drowning. James Har- parties. If this is accomplished it
June 23 and steamed on the surface vex rushed to her rescue and shetwi" undoubtedly prove one ot the
into the North Sea. Before sailing caught hold of him and he was unable most important good roads meets
we conducted trial trips and drills for to swim out with her, as she clutched lever undertaken. After this junc
the crew for ten days or two weeks, him with the grip of a drowning per- tioa has been formed, the Jefferson
having proceeded from Bremen to son, and Mr. Harvey had gone under Highway party will proceed on its
our starting point. I had never been with her a couple of times when oth- way through the wonderful country
on a submarine voyage, and the train- ers formed a chain and managed to of ^northern Minnesota to Winnipeg
ing I had all was received in the prac-, reach him and they were soon safe '"~1
Made a $170,000 Heal Estate Deal.
John T. Robertson, the well known
Leon real estate dealer, has closed up
a big deal involving close to $200,000
the past week. With Robert Bennie, a
see because we were running ColoradoFranc^of8 ^"(MO acres, 30 *r1eff®rs°n
so low and our ship gave out no ™°saB°®tH of Brush. Colorado, with- the hrrt week in July and will be
mne Qf
sometimes two hours and sometimes of Decatur county, owned by Charles
of
lace, if all looked well, we kept on £^naras or With
to be British naval vessels. arid'thThobrfmpTements etc./on the
'We did not on the entire trip
It was very simple.
"From the North Sea we went
ranch worth
come into close proximity with any Rjchards secures three fine farms in
man-of-war. We avoided them all. jasper county, Iowa, all located with
in a few miles of Colfax, one of 120
acreSf another
thjrd 0f 23T
Dodd
sjderable
.Also we came without insurance run
ning entirely at o.ur own risk"
"V "Did you bring a message from the
fflkaiser to President Wilson?" the cap
y^tain was asked. Tlie Reporter man was taken to
"No, we did not," Captain Konig task a number of times the past
$ -replied with emphasis^'that is a plain
continued at work at his store until dertaken. It is the first one over
during the afternoon when he con- ^jie jeft'erson Highway and the oltic-
Several families from Leon were tinue the proceedings for his allot
enjoying a day's outing *t* Woodard's ed time and then leave for the next
dam on Grand River last Sunday, and town with an escort of two automo
two narrow scapes from drowning by I biles to do his turn there. Upon his
members of the party, came very departure the third man takes his
enjoyment.
than a torpedo boat destroyer, much while bathing in the river at the dam, next town, the first speaker proceeds
steadier. Nothing can happen to her little Billv Lindsey, one of Mr. and to the next appointment. At the close
she is so perfectly built. Of course, Mrs. Will F. Lindsey's interesting of the speaking in each town, every
she rolls a little sometimes, but that twins, got beyond his depth, and was °ne taking part in the run proceeds
is no hardship. floundering around in water over his on the way.
"Any nation can do what we did,1 head, some distance away from the In this way each town can be given
that can build a ship like the Deutsch- others, but fortunately he was seen ja full hour or more and yet the main
land."
I and Harry SmitlC of Florida, who is run will be halted only a few minutes
the big ranch purchased!* latei.
h.
al)OUt a year ag0
Covington.
British battleships the Colorado ranch Mr. Dodd secured £'e have heard which towns wish to
in the North Sea only and 212 head of cattle vah.ed at $11,600, us stop o„ our^ througl,
destroyers, or at least what we took
2? head of horses
values at $3,200,
of 160 acres and a
acres, for which Mr.
received a total of $90.000.,...
deals are not made
submerged and remained still all gVery day, but John Robertson is con- Population stands just as good a
ls in e'arnest
cruisers which we knew and it was,afte counted regardless of where they
very foggy. So we thought it wise Airto Turns Turtle, Occupants Escape, come from, if they stay in line until
.not to take any chances and I gave I the next town is reached.
the order to submerge for the night The auto of James Konklin of
and until there should be clearer Leon, turned turtle in the road at the
weather. The next morning all was corner of the Barry farm, about sev
well and we proceeded through the en miles southeast of Leon last Fri
channel into the Atlantic ocean with- day evening, Mr. and Mrs. Konklin
out incident. and son Vere were riding in the car,
"Our trip has demonstrated that Mrs. Konklin being at the wheel and
the big merchant submarine is practi- in making the rather sharp turn at a
cal and that it has come to stay. We corner one of the wheels struck rhe
expect the venture to be a great finan-, bank at the side of the road and the
cial success. This ship can carry a car turned turtle, all three occupants iargest number of automobiles in line
cargo of 1,000 tons and on this trip being underneath the top which was
-carried 750 tons of dye-stuffs valued fortunately up. None of them were ten town compete for the carload of
at 81,000,000. The charges for the injured aside from a fewr slight bruis
shioment alone will pay for the cost es, and the car was not damaged
oi the Deutschland, a bout $500,000. imucli, the windshield being smashed
-On this trip we carried no mails, nor and the top slightly broken
Konklin was driving very slow at the
time of the accident or it would have
been much more serious.
Left His Own Name Off List.
we
«^?11ie." name from the list of delegates to
"We will go back again, carrying the democratic state convention, se
«&what«ver cargo there is for us to lected at the county convention, in
VfetafcA And we tan go without taking the r«nort of the democratic countv
ek on account of omitting his own
convention. We had to plead,-gjiilty
to the charge, and no one wfes to
«aV that It "will be just as easy to go blame except the editor, but we are
back as it was to come over. We will glad it was our own name instead of tanks, for its application,'can be se
Jsave no difficulties getting out of the any of the others. cured.
Jefferson Highway Directors Tour
ing from St. Joe to Winnipeg,
Visit Leon Friday, July 21.
The greatest social auto run ever
attempted in the United States will
pass through Leon on Friday, July
21th, when the directors of the Jef
ferson Highway will make a sociabil
ity run and 900 mile talk extending
from St. Joseph, Mo., to Winnipeg,
B. C.
The meeting of the directors will
be held at St. Joe on Wednesday and
Thursday, July 19tli and 20th. Leav
ing St. Joe on Thursday afternoon
the sociabilitv run will commence the
first
"puiVh, iSrt
night
stop being
The following official announce
ment of the run gives program and
details in general:
This promises to be one of the most
.interesting sociability runs ever un-
-t mio at cai C*.IIU5 lu mcvcvc it
ing great pain. It was found that the breaker, both for interest and the
blow had caused a congestion of the
arteries in the vicinity of his heart
and Saturday night and all day Sun
day he was in a very critical condi
tion, his life hanging in the balance,
but towards evening he showed im
provement and has since been get-
creating a good roads sentiment. To
that end some very unique plans are
being formed.
The run is to be pulled off in re
lays so that "good time can be made
and yet permit of road talks at each
town on the route.
Three or four speakers are to be
provided for each town for fifteen or
twenty minute talks each. The first
speaker will open the meeting and as
soon as through will leave, with an
escort of two automobiles, for the
next town and open the meeting
there. The second speaker will con-
Place and upon his arrival in the
on
toot to have a junction of the two
1,1
Night controls will be at Albany or
Bethany, in Missouri, the first night
Thursday, July 20th at Des Moines
the second night, Friday, July 21st
at Mason City the tlnrd night, Satur
day, July 22nd and at the Twin Cit
ies the fourth night, July 23rd.
The itinerary through northern
Minnesota and Manitoba will depend
on the result of the contest for the
H16hway
ex*ct
1
VJ$
LEON, IOWA, THURSDAY, JULY 13, 1916.
SOCIABILITY AllTO RUN
scheduled either
will talk for ^fteen or twenty min
utes. Arrangements are being made
to give the directors and those with
them a cordial reception when they
visit Leon. Many autoists from La
moni and Davis City will accompany
the party to Leon, and it is planned
to have a number of cars from Leon
meet the party at Davis City. It is
expected that a large number of De
catur county cars will accompany the
run from i^eon to Osceola, and full
details of the arrangement will be
published next week.
to be determined
buih
schedule giving the
^10Ur and minute of the arrival and
Brush" Colorado, to departue for each town will be made
up
*nd
se,nt
4
ea''h
,plfe
as
s0-°
1
Follow the Flay
A/ laV,e
$3,900. In exchange Mr. ^ie laigrUnite'd Statls flk'g
This United States flag is to be
awarded to the town that lines up the
greatest number of cars bearing pen
nants with the name of their town,
according to the population. Under
^ed local cars are
Itlns regulation the town of 1,000
of a hustler, and ne goes chance to win as a larger town. Cars
carrying the town pennant will be
No car will be counted that is in
front of the flag. Cars will be
counted that are in line behind the
flag when the flag car is ready to
start.
A Tank Car of lioal Oil to be Given
as Premium
In addition to the flag there will
be offered as a premium a tank car
of road oil to the town having the
as
Mra
Mrs.
outlined above, provided at least
oil.
This carload of oil was offered af
ter the above arrangements about the
flag had been made, and hence there
will be a first and second premium.
The town that wins will have the
choice of the flag or oil, whichever it
chooses, the other will go to the town
having the second largest number in
line, as provided.
This tank car of oil is to be used
on the Jefferson Highway, atter the
road has been properly prepared for
its application. If the town winning
this oil is not familiar with the use of
oil, expert advice will be rendered by
the Jefferson Highway Association
and it 1b altogether likely that the
use of the latest improved pressure
isS5'
Regular run cars will have banner
across top behind with number of po-:
sition in line and drivers will be ex
pected to retain that position and
keep preceeaing number in sight. It,
is just as bad form to be out of place
as it is to turn out on the wrong side
of the road. It is desired that no
delegations meet us on the road as
that will interfere with running time.
Local cars to fall in after speaking is
over and escort to the next town and
as much farther as possible.
No local programs are desired ex
cept at night controls. The touring
party will furnish program for each
place. This plan must be cariied out
in order to make the time and give
each town an hour's program alto
gether. Any deviation from these
plans will compel us to cut the time
at that town.
Many towns are going to decorate
with flags and bunting, as their peo
ple feel that the Jefferson Highway
is the biggest and most important one
thing that ever came to them.
Fall in line and do your part in
true Jefferson Highway spirit, and
have the satisfaction of being in the
biggest "sociability run" ever pulled
off in the United States. If your
town wins, which would you take, the
flag, or the tank of oil? When the
minute comes we will be there, bar
ring heavy storms and wash-outs.
E. T. Meredith, President.
.T. D. Clarkson, General Manager.
'1'eg o' the liing" Starts Today.
The big circus serial, "Peg o' the
Ring," featuring Francis Ford and
Grace Cunard, commences at the Idle
Hour theatre today. This new serial
promises to be a thrilling one, deal
ing as it does with life under the
big tents. Circus acts from such
shows as Barnum & Bailey, Ringling
Bros., Sells-Floto and Hagenback &
Wallace Combined Shows were used
in the production of this serial. It is
the only real circus film ever produc
ed. Don't miss the opening chapter
today. It is one never-ending succes
sion of incidental and absorbing
events. This serial will carry you
back to your childhood days, for you
remember how a circus always thrill
ed and interested you. The serial
consists of 30 big reels and two reels
will be shown each Thursday for fif
teen weeks.
Matinee at 3 o'clock, three shows
at night, the first starting at 7:15.
Don't miss this circus serial. It will
prove interesting to you.
(iare l'reniiptial Party for Bride.
The following notice of a prenup
tial party given by Miss LaNelle Dale
at her home in Des Moines, is taken
from the Des Moines Daily Capital:
Among the many prenuptial affairs
for June brides was the party given
Miss LaNelle Dale Monday even
ing at her home, 730 19th sffeet,.
complimentary to Miss Meda Under
bill and Miss Hazel Smith.
Pink and white was the color
scheme carried out throughout the'
parlors and refreshments.
Those who participated in the af-1
fair were Misses Medea Underhill,
Hazel Smith, Clara Cook, Ruth Mac
gregor, Evelyn Tucker, Maude Dale,
Lucile Donoliue, Isabelle Watts,
Margaret Malong, Gladys Johnson,
Helen Moeller, Agnes Priebe, Alice
Stotts, Alzada Catell, Eugenia Ince,
Ethel Johnson, Edith Johnson, Mary
Green, Mrs. Vande Vere and Miss
Harriet Dale of Minneapolis, Minn.
Elected More Teachers for Leon
Schools.
At the regular meeting of the
Leon school board held last Thursday
four additional teachers were elected,
which completes the corps of teach
ers for next year with the exception
that there is yet one grade teacher
to be elected. The new teachers
elected are Miss Gretclien McClure, of
Indianola, Miss Averil Householder,
of Newell, and Miss Marie Rogers, of
Grinnell, who will teach in the High
S an is N
.L^eon, who will be assigned to one of
the grades. Prof. F. J. Ehrhardt has
contracted to remain as manual train
ing instructor, the board increasing*
his salary to $90.00 per month.
Will Locate at Ft. l)ol e.
E. B. Faust, who has been assistant
cashier of the Decatur State Savings
Bank at Decatur City, and also en
gaged in the insurance business,
leaves this week to locate at Ft.
Dodge, having been appointed district!
agent over lour counties for the
Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance
Co., and he will have his headquar-.
ters at Ft. Dodge. During their resi
dence in Decatur Mr. Faust and wife
have made many friends who are
sorry to see them leave, and wish
them prosperity in their new home
iiird-Shepherd.
Mr. Leo Bird, of near Decatur City,
and Miss Charlotte Shepherd, of Da
vis City, were married by Justice
John Woodmansee at his home in this
city last Saturday. The happy young
couple will make their home on a,
farm near Decatur City, and their
friends extend congratulations and
best wishes.
Chariton 8—Leon 7.
Chariton came back Sunday and
defeated the Leon base ball team in
a good game on the Leon grounds by
the close score of 8 to 7. This makes
a game apiece for the teams and a
hot game will be played when they
meet again.
Fell and Broke. Her Wrist.
Mrs. D. R. Springsteen, of Decatur
City, met with a painful accident on
Monday. She was la C. R. Meeker's
store and in some manner slipped and I
fell on the floor, and her right wrist
wag fractured in the fall:
TWENTYFIVE YEARS AGO
Items Taken from the Files of The
Reporter Published a Quarter
of a Century Ago.
Earl, the little two year old son of
Mr. and Mrs. Will Gardner, while
playing about«the yard Tuesday, ven
tured too near the open cellar door
and fell to the bottom of the steps,
but with the exception of a few
bruises, was entirely unharmed.
Frank Parsons informs us of a
rather curious freak of lightning dur
ing the rain storm last Monday. A
bolt of lightning struck a shock of
wheat about fifty yards from his
house, setting fire to it, and he says
it burned very slowly, fully an hour
and a naif before the shock was con
sumed, and it was raining very hard
all of the time which would have put
out an ordinary fire. A fence post
near E. W. Tift's was also struck dur
ing the same storm.
A cutting scrape oe'eurred in the
northwest part of the county Monday
evening, in which one of the partici
pants was badly injured. Dick Pray
and Thurston Munyon had some dif
ficulty before, and meeting Monday
night, the quarrel was renewed and
Munyon was getting the best of Pray
when the latter drew a knife and
stabbed and cut Munyon in several
places. Dr. Bone was called and
dressed the wounds and we under
stand the wounded man is in a pre
carious condition. Pray left the vi
cinity at once, walking to Hamilton
station on the Narrow Gauge, where
he took the train for Leon. He was
seen at the depot here Tuesday after
noon, waiting for a train, and
showed signs of having been used
pretty rough as both eyes were black
ed and his face badly bruised. When
the train arrived he boarded it for
St. Joe.
Capt. A. A. Jenks has been appoint
ed inspector of steamboats for the
state of Iowa by Governor Boies.
What Capt. Jenks does not know
about a steamboat is not worth know
ing. His first official duty was to in
spect the Yolo at Davis City.
Mrs. Anna Snorf returned to her
home in Des Moines yesterday.
Misses Annetta and Helen Kalbacli,
of Oskaloosa, are visiting their cous
in, Miss Clella Basnaw.
Mrs. Billy Mills and daughter Kitty
returned to their home in Des Moines
Saturday after a visit with relatives
in this city.
Misses' Hortense Dilsaver, Harrie
Young and Merl Hull are spending a
week with Miss Viola Wasson at her
home in Morgan township.
Thomas WTallace who has had
charge of the construction of a large
brick kiln near Hanley, Madiscn coun
ty, has returned to Leon.
Dr. W. T. Kelley, of Mallard, Iowa,
had business in Des Moines the first
of the week, and could not resist the
temptation to run down and see his
Leon friends.
Ed H. Sharp returned to his home
at Bethany, Mo., Tuesday, having left
his position as baker for F. B. Neice.
We are sorry to see Ed leave Leon,
for he had become one of our boys
and made a warm place for himself
in the hearts of our people.
News was received the past week
of the death of an old resident of De
catur county, John Cartwright, at his
home in Indian Territory.
Capt. J. D. Brown returned from
an extended trip to the northwest
country, where he had been buying
government cattle.
Itov Scout Fourth of July Hike.
It was a weary and foot sore crowd
that returned from the 14 mile hike
to DeKalb. The crowd left Leon
Monday afternoon at 4:30 and were
in camp .at DeKalb by 8:30. Pretty
good time for tender feet. The boys
had a delightful time on the creek,
fishing, swimming, disputing and eat
ing. Assistant Scout Master Horn
proved himself a most efficient cook
and an all round good kid. The com
pany was made up of Scouts McKay,
Hansell, Gillliam, two VanWerdens,
Sears, Beardsley, Swim, Bradfield,
Hatch, Assistant Scout Master Horn
and Scout Master Esch. Their feet
are much better at this writing and
in a few days more they will be ready
for another affair.
New Court Cases.
C. Ansel Barry vs. Frst National
Bank of Waterloo and F. L. Lorey,
sheriff. Plaintiff alleges he is the
owner of outlot 26, Miles addition to
Leon, having purchased same from
W. L. Barry which he sold May 1,
1916, to Clarence Gable. The defend
ant bank had a judgment against W.
L. Barry and has levied on the prop
erty and plaintiff asks that the bank
and sheriff be enjoined from levying
on or selling the said property. C.
W. Hoffman, attorney for plaintiff.
Challenge Machine Co. vs. Flora &
Shirley et al. Suit is brought on a bal
ance of $78.33, due for goods sold de
fendants. B. M. Russell, attorney for
plaintiff.
Centenarian Visits Shenandoah.
Grandpa Phipps, who will be 105
years old this winter, was in town
Monday visiting at the M. Maxwell
home on Summit avenue Monday.
It is surprising with what agility
he gets around in his visits consider
ing his age, but his mind is as clear
as many men much younger and he
enjoys life to the fullest. He was
an old friend of Mr.- Maxwell's when
he was on the farm.—Shenandoah
Sentinel-Post.
Marriage Licenses.
Josiah C. Scott, Lamoni
Maggie C. cantley, Lamoni
Leo Bird, Decatur
Charlotte Shepherd, Davis City
1
8 PAGES #.
a
Uncle Tom's Cabin" Friday and "The
Sins of Mothers" on Monday.
The ever popular "Uncle Tom's
Cabin" in five acts will be the attrac
tion at the Idle Hour on Friday, July
14th, Everybody knows what this
play is, and it will be presented with
a famous cast and wonderful photog
raphy, Mary Eline, the Tanhouser
Kid, appearing as Little Eva.
For Monday, July 17th, the Blue
Ribbon feature "The Sins of Moth
ers," the New Work Sun's $1,000
prize film drama, in five parts, fea
turing Anita Stewart and Earle Wil
liams. The following is a synopsis of
the play:
"The Sins of Mothers" is a story of
gambling. The heroine is a beautiful
girl. She loves cards. She loves
races. She loves roulette. She loves
all games of chance. She loves them
with a passion that is a mania.
You know how the drug habit can
grip a man, or the liquor habit. You
know to what lengths it will lead him.
This girl inherits a similar craving—
a craving for gambling. It was born
in her. Her mother before her had
the gambler's instinct. She secretly
kept a gambling house.
You see this girl returning from a
convent where her mother sent her as
a child, fou see her about to enter
society.
She is loved by a strong man. Her
future is before her. She is taught to
play c^rds. You see her heritage as
sert ifself. You see it grip and hold
her in its meshes. She can't resist it.
How it lures her! First to the
bridge tables of fashionable society—
then to the races—and finally to the
notorious gambling hell formerly
kept by her mother!
You see the great race track scene.
You know how Vitagraph can stage a
scene like this.
You see the inside of the gambling
house—the gamesters. You see the
raid by her husband who has become
district attorney. He doesn't know
she is there. You see what happens.
Matinees for both feature plays at
3 o'clock. First evening shows at
7:15. Prices 10 and 15 cents.
Meredith Makes Novel Offer.
"I am anxious that every voter in
Iowa should know exactly where I
stand on all problems," writes E. T.
Meredith, democratic candidate for
governor of Iowa. "I am anxious
they should know my position on the
road problem and that I am positive
ly not for paving, increased taxes, or
any $100,000,000 bond issue. That I
am in favor of the people having
power to build such roads as they de
sire but only upon their own motion
and after their express approval.
"I have stated my position in a
speech and wishing all to know my
position, I have made the following
offer, believing that at least one per
son in every county will read this
speech to at least 1000 people in
each county, or a total of 100,000
people will hear it in this way. I
am going to address every meeting
possible but I will reach but 60,'000
if 1 talk to -T00 a day every day until
election."
Here is Meredith's offer:
"I will give $100.00 to the person
17 years or older who reads my road
speech to the most people by Septem
ber 15. I will give $50 to the person
reading it to the next greatest num
ber, and $25 to the next.
"The speech may be read to a
lodge meeting, a Commercial Club
meeting, a Tax League meeting,
Chautauqua, Old Settler's Picnic, a
group of men gathered together for
the purpose of hearing the speech, or
at a meeting of any kind held in
Iowa, where the conditions are such
that those in attendance can hear it.
if it is read at a county fair or other
such gathering, only those actually*
in the room where it is read may be
counted and the number reported
must be the number who actually
hear it through.
"Conditions: Anyone, man, woman,
boy or girl, 17 years or older, may
enter the contest.
"Report on meeting must be made
within one week from date it is held.
"The name of the chairman of
meeting, if there is a chairman or
president, and the name of at least
three others in attendance must be
sent with report.
"The number to whom speech was
read must be reported.
"If, upon investigation, we find the
number reported in any case is pur
posely or grossly exaggerated, the
party so doing will have, his entire
credit not only for that meeting but
for all meetings wiped out and drop
ped from the contest.
"Special copies of speech, taking
about 30 minutes to read may be had
by addressing E. T. Meredith, Box
M., Des Moines, Iowa."
Maple Grove Sunday School Had as
Outing.
Eight autos loaded with the chil
dren of Maple Grove Sunday school,
southeast of Humeston, visited Leon
Saturday afternoon. They started out
for a day of pleasure, visiting Hum
eston, LeRoy, Weldon and Van Wert,
the lunch baskets being unloaded at
Van Wert arid a big picnic dinner
enjoyed. Then they drove to Leop,
and visited Garden Grove on the way
home. It was a jolly crowd with
cars decorated with banners and flags
and they were all enjoying the out
ing.
Homecoming.
The business men and others inter
ested are planning on a "Hcmecom
idg" for the near future which wil(
last probably three of four days. The
dates have not been definitely decid
ed yet, but they arc planning on a
.21 big time. Watch for further an
..19 nouncements and keep those datea
24 open so as to be in Leon for the bis
.16 .time of your life.
vr^.
W4
VOLUME LXII, NO. 48. ,•
'M-y-\
SPECIALS AT THE IDLE HOUR.
lift,1'
tl
rl
"f-i
17 fj
u-J
jstU''
3
am
"H
rs
4f
ft
5
%'t
'•'t"&
njf
i£.
v*
I
