DAILY EVENING EDITION
DAILY EVENING EDITION
TO ADVERTISERS.
WEATHER
Tonignt ami Friday generally fftlr
YKSTERDATS WEATHER DATA.
Maximum temperature. 95. mini
; mum Sti. wind. west, fresh, weather,
clear.
The KiiMt OragfttJftg has the largeat bona
fide noil gagrifttead paid circulation of anv
paper In Oregon, MM "f Portland ami 1
far the largeat circulation Id t'endlctun ol
my Dewapaper.
CITY OFFICIAL PAPER
COUNTY OFFICIAL PAPEB
VOL. 28
DAILY EAST OREGONIAN, PENDLETON, OREGON, THURSDAY, JULY 13, 1916
NO. 8860
ALLIES TO KEEP
POUNDING AWAY
AT TEUTON LINE
Premier Asquith Reveals in House
of Commons the Determination to
Keep up Offensive Indefinitely.
14 Labor Leaders
Are Found Guilty
by Chicago Jury
'I II REE VRE ACQUITTED ON
i ll Rc.i: Of conspiracy To
EXTORT MONEY.
Certain Death in New German Gun
BANK HOLIDAYS SUSPENDED
CHICAGO, July 13. Fourteen Chi
cago labor leftdera were convicted ol
conspiracy id three were acquitted
today afler Jury delllieruted all
niKht. There were 17 defendant,
mostly business agents of the build
ing trades organizations, charged with
conspiracy to extort, tioycott, commit
I HdOlM mischief and obtain money
under false pretenses. It was charg
ed systematically Ihut they extorted
money from contractors and buildinii
Actlou Is Taken Si As to IMH ""crs. muauiK inreats or sirihes ana
Mtwl) Stream of Munitions to the, Violence
Purer at the Front; Will Continue
AtUW'kn lutll tlnal Victor Ih Won. II I AM 1
IK. I Man Who Murders
i
LuMniN. July 13-rremier as- , HnmoctolWjy SsiffC
quith, announcing the suspension oi
August bank holidaya. revealed the
determination the nllleai to contin
ue the Somme offensive for months.
In order to achieve a final vlitory
Th suspension of me workers' hoi-, BERT HOPKINS declares that
biay by royal proclamation is for the RE I SED TO MAKE HIS
Homesteader Says
He Lived in City
PUrpOM of insuring a steady supply
of munitions. Announcing the pfoc
latDMiOB, Asquith aeciarcd that al
though conditions lit the war ha''
ROME IN Col NTY.
This remarkable weapon is the lat
st invention of the Osmauns mnA la
now being used against the llrltish in
Herl Hopkins, the sn-epherder. wbu their mighty drive against the kai
shot and killed L J Kggcrs, a home.cr's army. The honi tain. .
changed CftVOfftbl. lor the allies, there steader of the Durkee section of Ha- id file gun. It a ao thick it will with
P0 nia urgent need that the supply ker counts few days ago. claims taj stand the -huts of mere rifles and can
of mu' Dions be kept moving in a be I Pendleton man and to have llve i be punctured onl b oannon
ioii.-t.nj Mream to tne llrltish Iront in I matllia county for many years -r
"We should make ft possible to con He claims to have left this city only'
tun cur bomb .rdment and keep up a few month ago to rile on a home-:
our .iseuult Indefinitely, " he told Ml ad In the Murkee vicinity. His
OOtnlnona A burst of thee"lng fol- mother li dead, he gays, but could
rat- J 5 . &
TREVINO MAY
7
f
IN PLOT TO AiO
VILLAS REBELS
Information is Received at El Paso
That Mexican Leader Furnished
Bandits With Ammunition.
MOVEMENTS CLOSELY WATCHED
BRITISH POUND AT
GERMAN DEFENSES
IN MANY SECTORS
Offensive is Approaching a Crisis Northeast of
Albert Where English Troops are Endeavor
ing to Advance Two Miles.
Concentration of Troops at Cbdiua
hua is Believed to lie Significant;
Communication South of That City
I CM orf; Carranza Goahi Re
ported to lb' impi ,sonl.
LONDON. July 13. Artillery en
gagements occurred along several
sectors of the British rront last night.
The general situation Is unchanged.
The second phase of the British of
fensive la approaching a crisis north- tacka.
termined to continue the Verdun M
tack regardless of the critical portion
on other fronts The Germans bom
barded the fort violently throughout
the night but made no infantry al
ine (lerman -mom ia h.,
east of Albert, where the English are of artillery preparation for the pres-
striving to advance two miles to the.ent effort,
neighs of Martinpuch. The Oer-
mans have thrown two
tin
enemy ranks, and the single man j
Protected inside Ores until cannon de-1
stroj the hood and kill him. Once al
Herman goes forward propelling In its
wheels this strange engine of w ar he I
BnoWl certain death Is lefore him. He I
kill a dozen of the enemy, but he I
e smashed to bits by cannon be-!
be can return.
mav
will
fore
lowed bis statement.
I'KKLIN. July 13 The llrltish
succeeded in est ibllsnlng tltMNNlVM
In 1 Viilahnalsnii. it was of'leinlly an
DMOCtd. outh of the Somme seve:
mI .iii.e s: were unsuccessful Kast of
the ,Meue, irern.an lllfaiitry was bus
conHolidating the positions captured
northeast oi the Verdun front oft Tuee-
dk) Kb y-slx Krencti officers and
141 men wete captured
not give the whereabouts or his fath
er. He is young man. short, heavy
sei and blonde with scanty hair, ac
rofdllM t i the description received
from llaker
Hopkins win piead self-defense,
claiming that he han been threatened
bj ICsgcrs and Intended only to fire
over his head- Their nuarrei was ov.
r Ihe si p whi. h Hopkins was salUf somewmi Of a sensation
to hive been grazing Ml loggers' land j'""' morftlftl was the report that Sa-
MISS NASON REMOVED AS HEAD
nr umiTii i i aahhth a J,
UL UI1IILLA UUUNIY LIBKAR Y
WASHINGTON, July 13
Pereblng betterea that tiie trou
ble between the l uited tatc- and
Mexico l- -4'ttlcd. A rciMiri to the
war dciurtnicnt today said:
"The Mexicans in this vtctaltj
and along tlie Mexican railroad
taw Ih'Ii ver friendly toward
Vniciicans in the lat few dai-."
M ANTONIO, July IS.
large luind of VUUstaa, irobably
heodeti by Villa himself, arc
beaded deterniincilly toward Oji
naa. accordlna to roports receiv
ed al ainiori headquarters early
today. The first engtoeerinc
iiri- was sMit to the border,
Two companies were m-m to
BrownmlUe, one to Laredo and
one to Eagle Pass,
army corps
Into action there and are counter-attacking
savagely, particularly south
m st of Ci r.talmaJson. where a Ger
man success fould halt theentlre Brit
ish advance
Salient fs Oerupted.
I'ARIij, July 13 An Intermittent
cannonade occurred today on both
sides of the .Somme eut the actions
were unimportant fn -the crham
British correspondents report that i l'" tne French penetrated salient
the British losses hae been severe
only where there was close fighting
for posseesion of villages. German
correspondents, admitting the power
ful offensive, declare that the losses
are comparable only to Verdun N'o
Canadian or Australian troops partic
ipated in the Somme offensive The
Newfoundlanders. however, distin
guished themselves.
On the eastern front the operations
east of Kovel have reached a tempo
rary lull.
on the German nneg, taking prisoners
le Argonne. a German attack was
checked In the Vosges, a German at
tack was reputoed after a violent gren
ade combat.
I'cneu Verdun Drive.
PARtR, July 13. Dense German
j masses are storming the approaches
EL FA.-'O. July 13 Information j to Fort Souville In the seventh greal
at Trevtno has furnished Villa with i assault on Verdun since the battle
Bftltlona has cast a doubt over Tre-; started 116 day s ago. The violence o:'
no's reports of his attacks upon Vil-j yesterday's attacks furnished unmis-
takeable evidence that Germany is de
I"
was working for Ainos Koethler
.sal sheepmen claim they anov
o ope of the mate of HevklM
n effort to identify him hen
ill.-d
American Firm to
Build Submarine
Freight Monsters mm CALLED IN STRIKE
I'NDKIIKKA BOA'fa Wild. BE USED I II. Ill WITH POLICE I'KOMITs
ora I. .ason. county librarian, had
been removed from her position b
Mrs. James A. Pee Mrs. c. F, Coles
worthy. P. P. Strain :,nrt II li m,-i.
ndlhrarv hoard at a meeting bisi at
BETFWBESN Tills roi NTHY
AND QEHMANT.
sllKltll l TO lihXJI I T
ILLINOIS TlttMU'S.
BALTIMORBi July 13 Giant un-1
dlWM freighters, flying the Ameri-'
can flag, will aoon attempt to shat-'
ter the Hrllsh starvation blockade. In-1
spired by the success of the Deutsch-1
land. Paul Hllken Is forming an Am
etienri corporation to make undersea!
ships which will put the Deutsxh-I
land into the pigmy class Simon bake,
who a year ago predicted that "We
shall probably see a cargo-carry nig
submarine constructed for a block
ade runner." will act In an advisory
cap.u ity and permit the use of his
patents Btlken gave the I'nlted
l'nss ihe following statement of the
plans
"Captain bike and l'., pi Hllken
are i cnsldering the advisability of
forming a company to operate under
the American flag in a service similar
to that oxeun Hhederel began w ith 1
the submersible frelgnter Dcutschland
The success of the Deutachland't trip
and the huge profits already, ajasured,
lead those planning the venture 10
ezpeet it to prove successful financial
ly
HPHINGIIELD, July i:l.
UovMlwr Dunne disutcliisl two
ootftpaftlMi of ihe sixth Infanlry
to Iji salle Uslay to patrol the
town whore ivtnont workers are
Ntrtklng.
LA BALiA QJuly 13 Sheriff a
vln of Ui Salle county, asked the g.u
arnor today to send militia to quell rl
o's following an incipient battle 0i
tween cement strlKem and the police.
Illinois bsj two militia regiments not
ordered to the tiorder Davis antici
pated that the troops would be sent
Immediately. Aliout 1200 strikers ire
out
ing. InVfletlgation proved that at 111
meeting last evening a majority of
the board members present passed ft
I motion reaueMIng Miss Naaon to re-1
I sign, her resignation to be ,.ff,.rtive 1
j August 1 .
No formal statement of the reason
for their action has been given by 1
those who opposed Miss N'ason but it
has been common knowledge for some
time past that the hoard has been dl- j
vlded within itself over the librarian-j
ship and other subjects. Some of the
members, including the president, I
have been staunch supporters of Missj
N'ason while others have been Just as
strongly opposed to her.
The meeting last evening was I
called one for the purpose of consult-1
Ing with one of the materialmen of
the new building There are nine
members of the board and the mem
bers of the county court are privi
leged 10 attend all meetings Seven
members were present last evening,
ftll some of the time and some part ol i
the time, Those in attendance were
Mrs. Una H. Sturgls. president. Mrs.
A J. Owen, secretary. Mrs. i M. Rice
Delegation From
Here to go to La
Grande for Races
rating near Parral. Tele
graphic communication was cut off
south of Chihuahua fast night.
1 arranzlsia agents rurnishe.l Amer
ican officials with detailed charge Of
"wen was eaile.i am, i. . i " i revino plot to assist tne renei
meeting was concluded and Mr i raovem-nt 'n northern Mexico lor the
ps did not attend until after 1 ultimi'te IJU"'use "r replacing Villa,
ell meeting. Miss Nftaoo was not I" w'ilh tne ''"r"281 attack, nearly
tendance. .precipitating war. was reported to
I have Caueed obregon-s orders replac
: imz Trevino with Enriouez. Reoorts
lhai Enrique had been Jailed or ex-;''M AI' BUSINESSMEN PLANNING
ecuted were unconfirmed. TO HKLP "SPKKD EM DP"
Carranaa agents suspect there Is 1 NKXT WEEK.
much significance In Trevino's con-
I cenration of all loyal troops at Chi- Pendleton will probably send a del-
huahua City since receiving word of ega,ion of """'n1" men 10 L Grande
jhLs transfer to Monterey Even POT- he,P the people of that city "speed
lions of Hi. urmv n,bili7erf to eheck UP" their annual motorcycle
(VbMI the motion asking for the li
brarian's resignation was made by
Mrs. Fee. Mrs SturRis refused to put
It. It Is reported that all of the other
111 mbera present voted for it.
The follow ing statement was made
to the Kast nregonlan today by two
members of the board friendly to Miss
N'ason
in view ,,f the unusual growth and Pershing's movements are now in Chi- races on ""' -- and -3 A move
popularity of the rjmatilla County Id- J huahua City. Carranza's two nephews nient was started today to that end
brary System within the past twojwem to Mexico City today to make a and indications are very' favorable for
years, it comes as a surprise and dis-1 personal reuort of Trevino's actions. ,he farming of a big body of boosters
tinct disappointment to the people. Chihuahua arrivals declared that '" invde the Grande Uonde capital.
Who have heard the news, that Miss 1 Trevino has imprisoned Generals Sal-' Wil1 Church and E. E. Kirtley. who
N'ason was dismissed by a part of ttttlasar and Caravan, former H'tTM-T. I wer here yeeterdajF en route to Spo
llbrary hoard at an adjourned meet- who recently were granted amnesty. I kanp suggested an excursion to sev-
ing last evening. I eral business men and found ready
' As only six of the eleven members' j response. La Grande has always been
of the county board were present,! Three Men Blown to Pieces. l gtutfS patr,ln f the Round-l'p and
RAID MADE BY MILITIA MEN
KEKHER8 Of M.SSA( lit SETTS
OMPAN V ItESENT BEING
1E1) ON HEWs.
KANSAS CITY. July 13 Angered
fecause officers ordered them to re
main in the train, 10a members of the
Eighth Massachusetts infantry de
trained through the car windows and
raided lunch counters, fruit stands and
saloons in the vicinity of the Union
station. Twenty policemen broke up
the raid and arrested 12 militiamen.
The men had not been off the train
since leaving Massachusetts and were
fed nothing but beans enroute. Offi
cers told proprietors of the damaged
places to send their bill to EI Paso
headquarters. )
EPIDEMIC SEEMS TO EASE
I N PANTILE PAKAXYSIS SHOWS
MARKED DETUNE DESPITE
HOT VFniER.
NEW YORK. July 13 Despite the
ti rrid weather, new cases of Infa',
flle paralysis showed a- marked de
cline. Only 117 cases were reported
I in the past 24 hours as against 16 -
esterday. Twenty-rour babies have
died the past day. The total deaths
now number 311.
Party is Hunting
Along Creek for
Man-Eating Shark
MONSTER TT KS AMI KILLS
TWO BATHERS AND MAN
GLES A THIRD.
July Options Above
$1.10 in Chicago Pit
CHICAGO. July 13. (Special 10 the
East Oriffonlan ) Range of prices to
day Open High Close
July . .,..11.104 11.10 H $1.10
Sept If.lt H ll.HH ll.ll
Kdief Bill for Refugee I ,-.
Mis. tturgia, the president, asked fon r r J"' " Peftdletonlans feel that this city WASHINGTON. July 13. The
postponement of action until allw,Me h'ow'n to piecee and five others -hould attend their big racing event, house bill appropriating l t4t f r
could be In attendance. However ,vere f""y Injured m an explosion A sppcja lruin ,av ,,e secured but ! the relief of needy American refugees
Mrs. .1. A. Fee. who made the motion Which partially wrecked the plant Of jM automobile excursion is not im-ii'rom Mexico was passed by the sen
ior dismissal. WSJ unwilling to wait!'ne Fernet Solway rompany. Light-1 probable. .te.
n.ng struck a shed filled with cheml-1
(Continued on Page Eight.) IcsU.
Portland.
PORTLAND, ore., July IS.
lull 'lub IS; bluestem $1.
(dpe
Dlrorpool,
UVKRPOOU July !.' Wheat -
No 1 spot Manitoba IDs lOd (SI. 1m
per bu.i; No. 2, 10s Id; No. 2 red
western Winter, 10s 4d.
M TAWAN, N. .!.. July 13. The
shark which killed a man and a boy
In Matawan creek yesterday and
mangled a third boy la believed to lie
trapped in the creek, a member of
:, huge party hunting the man-eater
reported seeing a shark's fin near the
pel where the bathers were attack
id esterday. Two charges of dyna
mite were dropped In Immediately.
Men armed with rifles lined the
batiks of the creek to shoot at the
monster If it was blown to the sur
face. steel net hns been stretched
over the mouth of the creek
NEWS SUMMARY
rlftttl -uti-
Qetiorftl,
1111-JliMin firm will build
marines, for ocean travel.
British continue to pound lines of
Germans I'm gains.
Mexican lender inpected of aiding
VRUttM
AlliCN will kts'p up offMMlVe until
b'tory is gained.
HEAT WAVE IN N, Y, BROKEN
Ijocal.
Ilbrariuu.
is asked to
NEW YORK, July 13 -With
a record of eight deaths and more
than 40 prostrations, the heal
wave which gripped New York
fOT two days, was broken this aft
moon. A cool rntn followed a
thunderstorm.
Miss Nftnoit,
rettign.
DrugglsiH cannot sell tUcoliol ex
cept 011 physician's prescription.
I'entllelon to M'lid twilttffl to li
Granile motorcycle rftCCft.
Alleged llaker murder claim-, to
ooato from IN'iulleton.
Ronnd-Vp hoglni on comtirohen
sive iiilvcrlisliu; campnlgn.
Old rrwcrolr mav beoorne WftTIBlng
mmi for ufttfttoMnm.
I gdWI Dlrttiissaft M,-C ..A Uaasak. A IT II. ,
i-aitai 1 itiuic ui juuyc iiuyncs diiu i diiiiiy
ft- L
' (
1 No More Alcohol Can be Had
at Drug Stores Except Upon
Prescription of a Physician
left to Right: Charier. E. Hughes, Eliuihcili lliibi. Catherine
This photograph ..f the republican candidate f"i president
ton. Long Island
Hughe-.. Relet
..)iv..Vv,..
Hughe- and Mm
Hughe.
at Brldgehftinp-
Acting upon a iietttion signed by
the Tallman Drug Co.. Koeppen
liros.. and the Resl cross Drug store,
the city council last evening pfteead
1 an ordinance prohitnting the sale of
'ethyl alcohol by drug stores except
upon the written prescription of a
! physician.
This ordinance is designed to check
I the heavy traffic in alcohol which
has resulted from the provision In the
. prohibition law making it possible to
(secure alcohol upon an affidavit that
as intended for external use
Druggists and officers have been
aware thai men have not hesitated
I to perjure themselves in order to se-
mre the alcohol for niternal use and
the big majority of cases of lntoxtca-
1 1 ion have resulted from this traffic.
The druggists have complained that
they have been unable to distinguish
I between those who want the nlcohol
I lor legitimate purposes and those who
want 11 for unlawful purposes. There
lore, they asked the ordinance for
i their own protection and it was passed
' unanimously.
The committee appointed a Weak
ago to investigate the matter of se
ll uring more water for patrons during
I the summer months without extra
c harge reported that the season is too
I far advanced to put any new plan in
to effect The old plan, adopted by
, the commission last year, of having
patrons contract to pay as much as
they did the M'ar preceding and re-
I Celve a pro rata of the surplus water
i is still in effect
l-ast year there was no surplus wa
tc r In August and July Is now too f.ir
advanced to ni.ike cny plan effective
this month. The Irrigation season
generally closet, in September. Sever,
al plans were suggemtve. among one
to discount the bills 'luring the irriga
tion months. However. Supt. F B.
Hays, who was called In. devUrei.
that any plan adopted must not cut
down the present revenue of ti,MI
a year as that amount in neewwary to
maintain the plant, retire the bonds
and provide for betterments. aj thu
course of his remarxs he stated that
luting the winter as much water wu
used as during the average summer
"Wing to the fact that patrons let
their faucts run to keep them from
freetlftg The commission mniie an
extra charges, he stated.
HOftgiaad QMS ( ootno t
W A. Homeland w is last evening
given the contract ror flushing thu
streets his bid having been toweftt
plow v. 1 were not h:gn enough How
ever. Mr. Hoaglar.d agreed to give 1
ISSdt hsgsl
John Iwittg was granied , permit t,,
install a gasoline serve, station on
West Welib and 1 permit w is grant
ed for the installation al m 0 1. .1,
plant in the Stone flange
Two bids were fee erred for furnish.
ing the city hose. Crane g.
Portland, ggreed to Rtrnhdi
$'.111 I ' 1 per I coj feet and J '
for cents a foot Beddoa A Mllle,
bid I! !i t m up Ho- John
Heath man home with .1 newer the bl I
having been submitted .it the re'ptcM
Ol K c AMbftl, wn.. ti n private
sewer an I who wisluss 1 1 o .j t.,, ip,vv
of
for
iu
