BUte' uiewric&l Boctoty f
Mexico Missouri-Message
On yoor label la a date ;
Renew br for It t too late.
VOLUME 17.
MEXICO, MISSOURI, THURSDAY, JULY J3, 1010
M M HER SKI
LIVED IN MARK
TWAIN'S HOME
C. W. Scott, 88 Year Old, Writes of
Childhood Days in Monroe County
Went to School With Twain's Kin.
. Wichita, Kans., July 9, 1916.
Editor of the Message:
We welcome your paper's vlsita; it
brings news to us of our friends and
acquaintances in Audrain and ad
joining counties.
Seventy-flve years ago we were
living in the Mark. Twain house at
the town of Florida, Monroe county.
My father opened the doors for a
Methodist meeting house, as there
was no church there then.
I set a trap In the garden an.d
caught quail, and went to school
with Mark's cousins, the Hickmans
and Pollard boys, and Judge Damrel
lo, who kept the Log Cabin Hotel.
Our school house was a log cabin.
Our court house here is built of
Carthage stone and cost $200000.
There are many costly churches
here, and as many denominations.
Champ Clark is yet the choice of
all parties here If he were a candi
date. There is no other party here
now but the Democratic party it is
perpetual, having outlived all others.
I knew a Dr. Bourne in Clinton
when a boy on my farm eighty years
ago. We lived three miles from Clin
ton and the farm joined St'outsvllle.
1 will be 88 years old in October
the 19th day. I take a little medi
cine when I need It. I read the New
Testament as the best law and doctor
tea - "
book; cure the grip without a doc
tor; 'never had a doctor but twice in
thirty years. I walk with the fast
est on Main street.
There are a few stand-pat Repub
licans and Progressives here but they
are not united.
Yours with bbBt wishes,
C. W. Scott.
TO RAISE $250,000 FOR MTI'DENT
HOME
Campaign Fund For Ituildlnir at 1'nl
versify Thrives From Start
Ten thousand dollars will be rain
ed at once as a campaign fund for a
$250,000 ' alumni and student club
house and business center at tlie Uni
versity of Missouri at Columbia. This
was decided by the board of directors
of the Missouri Union at its second
meeting recently.
The Missouri Union was formed
about a month ago to include all
present and past students and faculty
members of the University. It is ex
pected that a large part of the nearly
20,000 who are or have been connect
ed with the school will become mem
bers and will give the money for the
building. The purpose of the organi
zation is to unite all University of
Missouri people in activity for their
school.
The proposed $250,000 building wii
serve as a home for past members of
the University when they return and
a place where students in attend
ance can obtain that important part
of education which comes from
mingling freely with each other ana
with their teachers. About twelve
Important universities and colleges
now have organizations and buildings
of this kind.
JIOLLE.NSVILLE ITEMS
The ladies of the Midway Mission
ary Society will give an Ice cream
supper next Saturday night, July 15
at the home of Mike Pecks west of
Midway church. They will have a
quilt on display which will be sold to
the highest bidder.
Four new automobiles purchased
last week in this vacinity by Elmer
Gatewood, J. W. Blum, Edd Pilcher
and Frank Edwards.
Miss Willie Ball of Pueblo, Colo..
visited her aunt, Mr. Frank McGee
last week.
Mrs. Jennie Gatewood is suffering
from a wound caused by stepping on
a nail.
F. L. McGee and family recently
visited at J. W. Coakleys near Lad-
donia.
HOW ALCOHOL HARMS BODY ANU
MINI)
Summer's Increase lu Thirst Bring
Warning From Preventive Medi
cine Authority
"With the summer weather coming
on the thirst for alcohol in the shape
of beer and other drink's Increases.
Alcohol was formerly considered a
valuable medicine, "but today its use
for this purpose Is extremely re
stricted. Only In a few cases of
diabetes, fever and pneumonia, where
an energy producing substance is
needed, is it advantageous," says Dr.
M. P. Itavenel of the department of
preventive medicine ai the University
of Missouri.
According to Dr. Ravenel, alcohol
does not build tissue nor store food
In the tissues. On the other hand it
has a poisonous, narcotic action. As
a food It is too expensive. While one
may get energy from 10 cents worth
of beer amounting to 240 calories,
the same amount of money spent on
eggs would give 450, on bread 2080,
on corn meal 3310, on oat meal 3720.
Use of alcohol reduces one's physi
cal power about 8 per cent below
normal, while mental efficiency Is
reduced from 3 to 27 per cent by
moderate dosing. The effect on the
death late is as strikingly significant..
Comparing abstainers, those who
rarely use alcohol, temperate people,
and moderate drinkers, we find the
following: Abstainers show 17 per
cent smaller death rate than those
who rarely use alcohol. 29 uer cent
less than the so-called temperate
people, and 23 per cent less than
those who call themselves moderate
drinkers.
From an economic and social
standpoint, alcohol lessens efficiency
and productivity in industrial work,
and is one of the great causes of
poverty, destitution and crime. The
annual cost of the nrodur.tlnn anH
importation of alcoholic beverages In
the United States in ahnut tfiinnnn.
ITS1I M. V. STUDENT .US ION
A Fund itt $10,000 to be Accumulated
Without Delay
That the Student Alumni Union of
the University of Missouri will im
mediately raise $10,000 to further
the union idea, was assured when the
directors of the union met and au
thorized It. B. Caldwell, president,
and H. H. Klnyon, secretary, to ob
tain one hundred life members. The
fee for becoming a life member of
the organization is $100.
A student union for the University
of Missouri was lirst discussed last
winter. Since that time the Idea has
grown rapidly. The plan Is to have
a building such as is found at the
University of Michigan and other
places, where all students may gath
er and where student activities will
take place.
Part of the money raised will be
used at once to carry on an educa
tional campaign, chiefly by means of
literature, to explain to the alumni
the purpose of the union. Part of
the funds will also be used in rent
ing temporary quarters near the
campus for a temporary student un
ion building.
The board also fixed the annual
dues for active members at $3 and
passed a motion that the permanent
home of the union be a clubhouse
and business headquarters for men.
James P. Jamison, the university
architect at St. Louis, who drew the
plans for the union building at the
University of Pennsylvania, submit
ted to the directors tentative plans
for a building, based on the Penn
sylvania plan, but modified to suit
Missouri needs.
The board later will consider the
plans and work out any desired
changes. Mr. Jamison's plans call
for a 2-story building.
SOUTHEAST OF MEXICO
FARBER ITEMS.
THE FILIPINO BOYS.
ONE of the novel musical attractions booked to appeur at the Chau
tauqua is nn organization of singers and players ;jui the Philip
pine IsTundH. They are natives of the Islands who have taken
- advantage of the American occupation to Improve their musical
education. Their selection luclude both Philippine mid American music,
vocal and Instrumental, and are said to be a revelation in musical culture.
The oat harvest is progressing
nicely with a promise of a fair yield.
Little Agues Tuepker has been
quite sick with flux.
Tate Hess is up and around a part
of the time since the C. & A. smash-
up.
Wyman Bohr and James Gore, each
shipped a load of stock to the St.
Louis market Monday.
Young Mr. Page, of Illinois was
visiting his mother, Mrs. Sarah Tal
bot, last week.
A. T. Chaso shipped a mixed load
of stock to the St. Louis market
Tuesday.
We had quite an Interesting Sun
day school with an increased attend
ance. Bro. 8. E. McDonald was sick and
could not fill his appointment at the
Presbyterian church Sunday.
Lottie Boulder left for Ash Grove
Mo., Saturday to visit her sister,
Mrs. Jane Gregg.
Our old friend, George Henry
Gregg, of Los Angeles, Calif., made
us a pleasant visit the latter part of
the week. He is visiting his moth
er and other relatives.
A tent show has come to town for
a week.
Special Cash Sale for July
During this month we will offer every article
in our store, at greatly reduced prices. Now is your
opportunity to buy dry goods, notions, clothing, rugs,
matting and many other articles, at from .
10 to BO- Discount
for cash. You can't afford to miss this money
saving event.
RICKETTS & EMMONS DRY GOODS CO.
J. At. Brown VU shaking hnnrt..
In this neighborhood Thursday.
Mrs. Roy VanNote Is visiting her
parents, Mr. and Mrs. B. F. James.
Miss Emma and Ida Lee Freeman
have a new piano.
The Girls' C. E. T. club met Wed
nesday with Ida Lee Freeman.
John Smith and family took an
outing in their new Overland last
week, and John linally got it headed
toward home, after circling around
Benton City.
L. R. and Mrs. Larkin, Mr. and
Mrs. Jas. Muter and family woro
Sunday callers at W. B. Freemans.
Jim was exercising his Tin Lizzie.
Annie L,ocK Hamilton is visitine
her grandmother Bradley.
Mr. Jas. Mulr has two sick chil
dren, little Russcl and Edith.
A Pltzer purchased a new Over
land car last week.
Little Wanda Hamilton has return
ed to her home in Carrolton, III.,
after a month's visit with her sister.
Mrs. Fletcher Sims.
Mr. Jno. Smith and family snent
Sunday with Uncle Henry Smith
east of Mexico.
Mrs. Ollie Moody has returned to
her home afler a few days' visit with
her sister, Mrs. Sallie Waldeu of
Mexico.
Mr. L. J. Dudley and mother were
Sunday callers at J. P. Newmans.
WOODCRAFT STORIES
FOR LITTLE CHILDREN
We are offering four yearling
Short-horn Bulls, reasonable, all
Scotch.
S. P. EMMONS A SON.
to
Master Robert Precht returned
his home at Hannibal, Mo., Tuesday,
after a hort visit with his grand
parent, Mrs. B. A. Thornburgh, and
Mr. nd Mrs. Henry Precht
CLEARANCE SALE OF MILLI
NERY at THE VOGUE, succeesor to
Miss Rosamond.
FOR SALE Good top buggy. An-
plyto Dr. W. H. Hickman. wl
New Teachers for McMillan.
$$$$$ $ $ $-$
$ Mexico Savin cr Rank
$ 44th Year in Business
$ Capital Stock, $150 ,000
$ W. W. FRY, President
Fourteenth Story.
By L. Roy Ferris.
Old Mr. Ant is the funniest little fellow, and there are
so many in the family. He couldn't begin to count his re
lations for the reason that they are always moving around
so fast he would get all mixed up, unless he made his count
at night, but he would miss some of them then, for you
know the ant family is a well regulated household and if
everybody doesn't get home on time from the ant picture
show, or from listening to the bull frog chorus, why they
are locked out and there is no such thing as a pass key ei
ther. The ants inside stop up the door with leaves and
small pebbles and there they are locked out.
Besides they have queens and what the queen says is
law in the ant kingdom.
One of the funniest things about the ant is that they
all help take care of baby brother and sister. If some boy
digs down in the nest just to see what is there, each ant
grabs an egg or a baby in its mouth and hurrys away to
safety. So remember, Sammy, when mother asks you to
mind the baby while she bangs out the clothes, no matter
how the fish are biting and how good the swimming is, vou
are not doing any more than any little ant would do. And
they not only tend the baby but they take it wav down in
the ground where it is cool when the sun shines hot, and if
it is too cool down in the ground they take it up into the
sunshine. That's done to keep the baby ant from having
the colic, I suppose.
The mother ant has wings, but she onlv gets to try
them one time for when she returns the worker ants grab
her and pull her wings off and then she stays at home, she
is needed at home with the children anyway. And they do
believe in soldiers, every other ant is a soldier. And how
they can tight when their neighbors try to clean house for
them. , -"rtgQ
One day when little Bud, the Camp Boys' little broth
er, grew tire"d of chasing butterflies and hunting Mother
Soft Shell's nest he sat down close to the very ant's house
we are telling wou about, and taking a chubby list smashed
in the ton of their honsp inst tn th fun mri ;mmo,i;.
A. - - w w-'w V a avay 11 1 1 VA MUIIIVMI
ately the workers came running out just like you did the
4 im n Vi ,- 1,1 r 1 1 . .. . I . 1 t
"- iitc icii on mt; ironi porcn. it was quite
a calamity for it had taken them several weeks to build it.
And Bud saw them run here, there and everywhere, every
fellow was doinsr his ilutv. sump rrirrvinrr P(T(rc 1,-iKir
C . - Vj,, .TVlllV VUljT
ants, and some food, and others trying to patch up the
crumbling roof. And Bud noticed that a stream of ants
carried kernels of corn from the hole in the ground, and
each kernel was ninehed oft .it the pnH- .mrl lln'c Kmthor
I - - - - U 11U ,J LI UIHV L
explained later that that n Hnnp.hv th
corn from sprouting while it is stored away for winter food.
And the funniest thing of all took place. Two of the larg
est ants ran to the little stream and saught hold of a stick
near the water's edge and two more caught hold of their
bodies, and so on, until they had a bridge across the nar
row stream, and then the whole ant colony passed over
in safety. And after that as Bud sat looking and wonder
ing at what had taken place, a large ant that some way or
another had been left behind climbed on Bud's neck and
gave him a good bite for spoiling their house.
And Brother Rabbit, who had been looking on from a
bunch of grass near bv. and at the same time talking to Bro.
Coon, said: "Serves him right."
But when the big tears began to gather in Bud's bis?
blue eyes, Brother Coon remarked. "I don't think so. and
besides I don't like ants anyway, and besides I intend to
dig up every ant house I rind, so there now."
DO YOU KNOW THAT
Intelligent motherhood conserves the nation's
best crop?
Heavy eating like heavy drinking shortens life?
The registration of sickness is even more impor
tant than the registration of deaths?
The U. S. Public Health Service cooperates
with State and local authorities to improve ru
ral sanitation?
Many a severe cold ends in tuberculosis?
Sedentary habits shorten life?
Neglected adenoids and defective teeth in chil
dren menace adult health?
'. A low infant mort?b'ty rate indicates high com
munity intelligencer .
J. K. JESSE, Cashier.
$ $ $ $ $ $ S $
w -W- - T T X "V
