tJ
nrnxT
COIMT Y HERALD
VOLUME XIV.
COOKEVILLE, TENNESSEE, THURSDAY. JULY 13, 1916.
NUMBER 28
I XX I I 1 1 I I
INI JlVl
TENNESSEE NEWS
CUT TO THE QUICK
FOR BUSY READERS
ormation of " an "East Tennessee
newspaper troop" is under way in Ath
ens, Ellsworth Wilson, editor of the
Athens Post, being the organizer. Mr.
Wilson, being a Spanish War veteran
and an ex-captain . of' the National
Guard, feels that he can pick from
his old acquaintances in the section
such a crowd of veterans as will make
the regulars envious.
There are 3,020 members of the chattannora waa vlaited hv nininna
National Guard mobiliied at Camp ,f wllIow gnatit an unusual -species of
iom . kjb in wasnvme. nsects, which have become rather
The East Tennessee Press Associa- Sequent visitors since the days of
uon win meet at uumoenana uap. ,iectric- lights. In some places and
Tenn., Friday and Saturday, August lcro8g tne rJ),ge the gnats were s0
11 and 12. :hlck that it became necessary for the
ln Population or lennessee at me ltreet carg t0 turn off gnta and low.
census of 1910 was 2,184,789, and it is cnrtalnB i order to pass through
estimated that it was 2,254,764 on July fflthout thousands landing in the cars
n the passengers
ine uearora inaex, war trace s new
newspaper, haa made its appearance,
Harry L. Beavan, a veteran newgpa
The Rev. Monro H. Muff, pastor of
line First Baptist Church at Pulaski,
ner man of Tullahoma. la its editor MB beRun an innovation which he
and J. B. Wilson is publisher. proposes to 'ieep up during the heated
James Hodge, a Lynnville lumber lerm and tnat te t0 Preach in his
buyer, haa a contract with a Arm at hlrt sleeves. No man in the congre-
New Albany, Ind., for 200,000 feet -f ration is expected to wear his coat un
walnut timber to be nurchased th less ne wnts to, and ladies are re-
year. I luested to leave their hats at home.
Twniv. .ntnmnMiA. hrinpinv n.r. 'Comfort first" is the motto Mr. Huff
sons from Leesburg, Fla., passed Bas adopted.
tarougn Chattanooga and many other Tennesseans generally will be inter
towns and cities in the state on Lgted to lerrn of a partial eclipse of
tour or tne Dixie Highway. the moon o a the night of July 14-15,
The Sulzberg & Sons Packing Co. ibout 80 per cent of the moon's sur-
wiu begin the erection of a . $00,000 (ace being covered by the earth's
cotton oil mill in Chattanooga at an shadow. The eclipse should be ob-
early date. Fourteen acres have liervable In Tennessee about 10:30
been secured as a site for the plant. p. m. on the night of July 14, when
The Belle of the Bend, a large it will begin, and last until after mid-
river yacht, was destroyed by fire I night
while moored in the Tennessee River
la Chattanooga. The craft was valued
at $6,000 and was a total loss.
Adjutant General Charles R. Rogan,
The treasury of the city of Nash
ville suffered to the amount of $71,
187.79, attributed to activities of for-
T.nn... ,. ...fi,..- t. ' ' c,ty officials from 1909 to 1914,
M. McGaughty to immediately raise "cord,,n to ,the repor to the
City Commission by James Cameron,
an expert accountant, .who has been
auditing the city's financial books
The Commission did not Intimate what
action it would take on the report,
Messages received at Cleveland an
nounce the killing of W. H. Hayes, of
another troop of calvary in Chatta
nooga.
The work on the $400,000 addition
to the Nashville postofflce and cus
toms building will begin at once, ac
cording to advices received from
Washington
A shocking tragedy occurred near Bradley County, a member of the
Green tree when Lee Blalock, 9-year- Eleventh Cavalry, at Columbus, N. M.,
old son of Martin Blalock, was acci- oh or about June 29th. Details are
dently shot by his 12-year-old sister, not given, but it is stated that the
The ball entered the leg and he bled I soldier's body will be sent to his home
to death before medical aid arrived, in Cleveland for burial. This is the
According to reports from Adams I lecond Bradley County boy to be klled
County there Is one of the largest I as the result of the Mexican trouble,
blackberry croos in several rears. Private Herman Kirby, of the Elev
"This combined with the high cost of tntttfcavTng-fatted- before - Mexican
sugar, will probably place the market guns about a' month ago
price unusually low. Edward C T.lnnev. B2 vears old. of
Col. D. W. Ketcham, With tWO COm- vhvlll mH Mr TxaHa TJnnev KO.
panies of field artillery and one troop nf HarrndRhiir Kv.. went to Jeffer-
m . J i a. i ma. an a. I '
tu aecuua cavairjr, uas leu run ugie- antlviB id .h wpt rpmarrlert hv
thorpe for duty at the mobilization M.iatrat Alonzo Paddocks. Thev
camp ai lopynanna, ra., 10 aseisi in their flrat m-rria was term!
irainmg mo emoieu iroopg ai mai .tBH in lonn and serond marriaee in
POuw. . 1904 I.lnnpv lauehfnelv Raid that if
VITHL 1 a. a a I
wun mil equipment on nana rer hu did certain thlnra thev were
ine raenr we oniy anonage now exiai- ,Ike,y to get dlvorced agaln and Bne
lng at Camp Rye at Nashville is that iailAd in tiniHnn and dcniamd h
of tentage. A number of men in belleved the third time would be the
many oi tne companies are witnout cnarm
tents at all. and durinx the rainy
weather are compelled to double ud uol a- u Moore, aeputy revenue
with the other fellows. collector of the Johnson City District,
One of the most important orders shows by figures that illicit distilling
Issued from headquarters at Camp ,s on tne increase, citing the fact that
Rve was that aDoointina 'Officers to there were only i,7d linen aisiuier-
return to Memphis and Knoxville to lea destroyed in 1909, while in. 1315
continue recruitine. These officers mere were j.hs aestroyea. inis in
will take the place of those who came crease has been gradual during the
In to be mustered in with their . com- P i years,. In 1910, there were
panieg 1,911; in . 1911, It had increased to
William B. Simnson. a nrominent " "e numoer aesiroyea
farmer and stock dealer of near Mc- dropped back to 2,466, and in 1013
Minnville. was Instantly killed at the to 2,375. In 1914 there were 2,677
depot in that town while engaged In destroyed
loading a car or nogs tor snipment. Tne Moore County Court, In its
While attempting to drive the hogs quBrterly term held In Lynchburg,
he ran between two freight cars, was yoted t0 refnd t0 Lem Motlow a fine
caught and crushed to death. of 250. which the Circuit Court im-
A winu nan was arrestea at wasn- DOsed unon him some time ato for
vine recently on tne cnarge or noot- operatiug the Jack Daniel Old No. 7
legging, and when told that a $50 distillery .for the purpose of testing
casn Dona viouia oe requirea, ne (ne constitutionality of the manufac
reached into his pocket and pulled out turers' law. prohibiting the distill
the required amount, wnen tne trial Mon of whisky in Tennessee. This
was caned he tailed to appear, forfeit- dp... UD this case, and the vote of
lng the money.
The Tennessee Travelers' Associa
tion, an organization that has accom
plished much for the betterment of magistrates who know him well.
conditions mac surrouna me arum
mer" while he is engaged in his dally
avocation, held its annual meeting iii
the County Court in ordering the re
turn of the fine to Mr. Motlow was
an expression of confidence by the are 8tni hanging on the vine for they
said so Sunday.
PARENT.TEACHER'S ASSOCIATION
The Parent-Teacher's Association
met Wednesday afternoon at the Way.
side, Mrs. Walter Carlen, the presi
dent presiding. A report on the 4th
of July celebration was given and the
committees congratulated on the suc
cess of their department. The music
committee reported that a nice Bum
of money was collected at the Patri
otic Concert, as donations for the pi
ano xuna.
Invitation will be sent out through
the papers this week to a reception
at the Wayside next Wednesday, from
one to tnree o clock, in honor of the
out of town women of Putnam coun
ty. This Is given under the direction
of Mrs. Fred White. Chairman of -,the
Polytechnic Department of the P. T.
A., the object of the reception is to
bring together the women of all com
munities in the interest of the Poly
technic. An interesting program will
be arranged and an ice course served.
It ig hoped that all who can will at
tend this reception.
It was also decided that the Parent
Teacher's Association of Cookevllle
would be hostess to the club women
of the Fourth Congressional District
some time in the near future, the date
to be decided by the women who have
charge of the general arrangements
of the convention.
The work of this group of women is
fast becoming a recognized force in
Cookevllle, and the different depart
ments and their chairmen take on
quite a business-like look when all
reports are in. Mrs. W. M Shanks,
the secretary, in order to expedite
matters and to keep a complete rec
ord of all the business of the differ
ent departments in the flies of the
association, requests that the chair
men hereafter bring written reports
at each meeting to hand to the sec
retary for filing.
The Association meets every two
weeks at the Rest Room.
CITY CEMETERY
Rev. G. W. Nackles, of Erin, was
here last week on business connected
with the city cemetery, of which he
is Superintendent. Parties who have
recently purchased lots in the city
cemetery and have not yet received
their deeds for same can obtain them
by calling at the law office of Ernest
Boyd, the Assistant Supt. of the ceme.
tery. ...... i
Everyone who has relatives and
friends buried in the Cookevllle ceme.
tery has reason to feel deeply grate
ful to these men who for several Jeara
have unselfishly contributed mucH of
their time to the work of making the
Cookeville cemetery the best kept
and most beautiful cemetery in the
state. There is nothing that speaks
louder for the finer sentiment of this
community than its beautiful ceme
tery, and no man ever too a aeeper
or more tnsemsh interest in- any wn
dertakine than have G. W. Nackles
and E..H. Boyd in caring for and beau,
tifying the 'City of our Dead.'
STALL RENTERS COMMEND
MARKET MASTER BUSSELL
T. P. I. FACULTY NAMED
The state board of education has
At a meeting Wednesday of the 8elected the faculty for T. P. I. There
Markethouse Association, composed were,abot 200 aPPUcants for posit
of the staU renters at the Market-1 i0?,8 , the 8ch01. out of which the
house and at which there was an at-if0U0Wingwe1ch128en:
tendance of about 100, resolutions 1 r- n'T DanleL Franklin, dean and
wprn adnntoil nnmmonHn i i English.
sioner Paul Treanor for his adminis-l ?UiC- Klrkman. Chattanooga, man.
tration of the affairs of his depart- .a,8; . XT v ,
ment a regards the market, and en-lt Jbert Barnett, Nashville, agrlcul
dorsing the appointment by Commia-1 tu? ad economics.
innar Trainn, n n... n I brace t lYSlnECr. DOIII8 eennom.
. w vomu uuowu ta , '
market master. The resolutions sta-l1CB; w - .... . ,
ted that Officer BusseU bad given en.L,"T w- Smun Winchester, civics and
tire satisfaction in his efforts to see I . r,9, . , ,
that the laws regulating the market-1 ,Vena May Martln. Bristol, domestic
noose were enforced. Commissioner , i.
Treanor was present and stated to the
association that he was glad the mar.
ket men were pleased with Mr. Bus
sell, as he had promised them a good
man in the place. Nashville Banner.
JUDGE WHITSON INTERVIEWED
While Judge H. D. Whitson was in
the city this week a reporter of the
Herald interviewed him as to the con.
dition he, as chairman of the finance
committee for Putnam county, found
the records on their last examination
of the different offices, and he compli.
mented them all, but stated that he
had been acquainted with the system
each office had been kept for 20 yrs.
four years, and there will be depart
ments of agriculture, mechanical arts
and home economics
and In no instance bas he ever found , Mmu,iro ahninmr,
. , . . vu.v. .wwatrwuv Lilt
fc 0 wucv .lvuj u. u SChOOl
sysiemiaiiy aepi as is xrusi.ee u
Blair Harrison. Mississippi. airricuL
ture.
L. J. Netto, Ocean Springs, Miss.,
instructor in science
F. C. Lowery, St. Elmo, mathemat
ics. W. M. Sherrill, Johnson City, burser
and commercial Instructor.
T. K. Sisk, Cookeville, high school
superintendent.
Miss Helen Hawkins, stenographer.
M. T. Carlisle, Cookeville, Principal
practice school,
Mt. View Lodge No. 179 I O O v
event an enjoyawe and profitable 4th
of July, having accepted an invitation
to participate in the Fraternities De
partment in the celebration. The
Lodge's Committee had the 8 wards
at the I O O F Home brought into
the Lodge Hall where they could see
sum oi me su,uuu Odd Fellow8 be
hind them, pushing them forward into
the development of enlightened men
and women. The children sang on
of the Home songs, after which the
Brethren passed around and shook
hands with them. They were then
put into an Automobile properly la
beled and moved on with the proces
sion; an object lesson showing re
sults of intelligent organization. Our
venerable Bro. Jordan F. Huddleston
93 years old headed the I O O F procession.
E. Slagle's office now kept.
METHODIST CHURCH
The great, vital topic of discussion
among American Methodists 1b the
union of all into one great body, there,
fore, next Sunday morning, at 11 o'
clock, Rev. R. J. Craig will preach on
the "Unification ot the M. E. Church
and the M. E. Church, South," Ev
ery member of the church should
bear this sermon.
: The most helpful and interesting
meetings on the church calendar . is
the prayer meeting on each Wednes
day night. Every one not attending
is missing much spiritual food.
Sylvan Rebekah Lodee. No KS I
p. O. F of this city installed the fol-
The course of study will embr.? 1: "
111. VAQrfl onH (hoM will Ka A inn I . . , . J
woDie urand, Mrs. S. B. Caruthers,
Past Grand, Mrs. H. V. Carr; Vice
Grand, Miss Mabel Peek; Secretary,
E. H. Boyd; Treasurer, H. V. Carr;
Chaplain, Mrs. G. W Stephens.
Miss Emma Loft is was elected rep
resentative from this lodge to the
State Rebekah Assembly.
The Rebekah degree was conferred
upon one petitioner.
DOUBLE WEDDING
A party of several young people
drove down from Algood Saturdav
night in automobiles and stopped at
the Minor House, where Rev. R. J.
Craig was called in, and a beautiful
double wedding took place. The con.
tracting parties were Mr. Fred Dryer
and Miss Galena Poteet; Mr. Fred
Kinc and Miss Susie Lemons, all of
whom were from Algood.
The ceremony was performed in
the presence of quite a number of
friends.
The Ladies Aid Society was delight
fully entertained by Mrs. D. W. Dow
last Monday afternoon an ice course
was served by the Misses Dow. and
enjoyed by all.
The Ladies Aid Society will have
charge of the services for Sunday
morning, July 23.
; The union service for next Sunday
night will be held at the Methodist
church. The speaker will be announ.
ced Sunday at all the churches.
DO YOU KNOW THAT
Life is a constant struggle against
death?
U -Dirty. refrigerators may make sick
ness.
The U. S. Public Health Service is
sues free bulletins on rural sanitation.
The defective citizen of today is oft.
times the unhealthy child of yesterday.
Every man is the architect of his
own health 7
The full dinner pail the open win
dow the clean well make for health
TO BUILD ROAD
Citizens of the second and third
districts of Overton county are going
to build a road from Hilham to the
Putnam county line and connect with
the road to Cookeville. The work
will begin July 22, and continue until
the road is completed. The work will
be done by volunteers at no public
expense. The Herald congratulates
the good citizens oi Overton upon
their action. Every mile of good
road built, is one of the best and most
profitable investments for the public.
ENSOR
Health is very good in this commu
nity, excepting a few.
Aunt Ruth Ballard isn t any better.
Mr. Joe Lee is improving some.
Farmers are getting along fine plow
ing and haying.
Mr. and Mrs. J. M Stewart and Mr.
and Mrs Dillard Dyer and family vis
ited Mr. and Mrs. Albert Stewart
Sunday. ,
The writer and sister visited Dewey
Crawford, Sunday.
Eugene Stewart and Mattie Lee
NOTICE TO FARMERS
All farmers who are intending to
sow crimson clover this fall and wish
to get inoculation please see me as
soon as possible so I can order it for
them from the Dept. of Agriculture.
Blair Harrison, Co. Agt.
TO THE VOTERS OF THE FIRST
CIVIL DISTRICT
I am a candidate for re-election to
the office of Constable of the First
District and will be deeply grateful
for your support. . JOHN L. LEE.
SILVER POINT R. S
Dear Editor and Herald Readers:
I will write a letter to the Herald for
the first time.
Hello, Brother John Duke of Cooke.
ville, why don't you come to see me.
My husband, J. W. Sutton is improv
ing fast.
I will close by asking lor a snower
of birthday cards July 19. All cards
sent to me will be highly appreciated.
My age is 71 years. Address, Mary
Jane Sutton, Silver Point, Tenn., R. 3.
Box 20.
ELECTION NOTICE
Notice is hereby given that a gene
ral election will be held in Putnam
county, Tennessee, on Thursday, Aug.
ust 3, 1916 for the purpose of electing
a sheriff, county trustee, county tax
assessor, county attorney, members of
the county board of education, mem
bers of the district school advisory
boards and constables.
In accordance with the provisions
of Chapter 110 of the Act of 1915 a
special election will likewise be held
on the same day as the regular elec
tion in order to determine whether a
constitutional convention shall be calL
ed to alter or reform the present state
Constitution.
Separate ballot boxes and separate
tickets will be ued for said special
election.
Both said regular election and spec
ial election will be opened and held
at the regular voting precinct In each
and every Civil District of Putnam
county. The polls will open at each
precinct at 9 o'clock a. m. and close
at 4 o'clock p. m.
This July 12, 1916.
L. F. STOCKTON.
BEECHER PHILLIPS,
ALGOOD MOORE.
Board of Election Commissioners
for Putnam Comity.
PAUL BROWN JUDD
Paul Brown Judd, little son of Mr.
and Mrs. Clarence 7udd, wfS t)orn
Sept. 8, 1915, and on the morning of
July 9th, 1916 he passed into eternal
rest. His stay with us was short
He won many friends, his loving dis
position making him attractive with
all he met. He was a favorite of the
entire family. While we are deeply
grieved and mourn his loss, he sweet
ly sleeps In the arms of Jesus, where
no care or trouble will, ever be his
While the sweet presence of Paul
Brown will be greatly missed, and we
are so much grieved we can say:
We shall meet again; sweet Paul,
In a brighter clime than this.
Where the anguisD of this moment
Will be lost in perfect bliss.
Mrs. Emma Pippin. -
TO ENTERTAIN
The parent-Teachers Association of
Cookeville will entertain the ladies of
Putnam county who are interested In
better schools and child welfare, at
the Wayside, Wednesday, July 19, at
A rousing good meeting of Cook.
ville Camp No. 12,248 was held Tues
day night. Venerable Consul, Chas.
Stanton presided, and a good crowd
of neighbors was present.
Reports were heard from various
committees and other committees
were appointed to look after new mat.
ters that were presented.
The Committee having charge of
arrangements forthe Woodman play
that is to be given" here soon, reported
that everything was looking good in
that direction. s
Just ten years ago Tuesday niaht
Cookeville Camp was organized and
in celebration of that memorable
event the camp adjourned to 'The
Palms,' where refreshments were en
joyed. Every member of thiB Camp is urg
ed to attend the next meeting of the
Camp, Tuesday night, July 18, as
some very important business is to
be transacted, and some interesting
talks will be on the program, includ
ing a history of the Camp.
Our state deputy head Consul, J. D.
G. Stephens, of Nashville will be a
guest of this Camp Friday, July 21, to
help launch a membership campaign.
Come out to the next meeting and ,
learn more about this.
Neighbor Elmore Gentry, of Baxter
Camp met with us and extended the
Camp an invitation to Baxter, July
22, to their big Woodman celebration.
RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED AT
TEACHER'S INSTITUTE
r
We, your committee on resolutions
report th following:
Whereas, we consider that the tea- '
chers of Putnam County have been '
benefitted by the most instructive-1
and most up to date institute during
the past two weeks ever held In the
county.
Resolved. 1. That we feel very ,
grateful towards our energetic Super- .
intendent for bringing about the con
ditions that made this such an excel-
2 o'clock. The object of the meeting
is to encourage the associations al-1 lent institute. We endorse him as an
ready formed and induce the forming emcient and worthy supervisor of the
or new ones, averj scnooi aisinci i lona work of the pubiic Bchool8
Licenses and numbers have been
Mr. Willie Dyer has set out to win
a victory and it seems as though he
Nashville. July 7 and 8, instead cf state for the six months In 1916 end-
Memphis. " lng uiy i, ior zo.uuu. auionioDiies
The County Court of Sullivan voted and 800 motorcycles, the first named
by 28 to 13 to exonerate Chair- avers.ging $6.00 per car tax, while mo
man Wlllim D. Lyon, of the County torcyclee each bring In $5.00. Li
Pike Commission, of charges of pollt- cene 'or demonstration cars, which
leal activity to the extent of using 326 dealers in the. state. More than
his office to promote the candidacy cost H0.00 each, have been iued to
of Kenneth D. McKellar for the Demo- $125,000 has been paid Into the state
cratlc senatorial nomination. treasury by owners of these earn and
An unparalleled record In Tennee- cycles, and Is the largest six months
see and perhaps In the United States reco'd the history of auto licenses
exists In connection with the office of ,n ,he B,ale-
Clerk and Master for Bradley Coun- N.' o. Kirk. Sheriff of Carroll Coun
ty. ' For over 46 years this office has ty. Is in receipt of lnquirfe frcm the
been held by different members of the Department of Justice of the Nation
McKamy family. Capt. W. H. Mc- a Government concerning a possible
Kamy was appointed to the office and apy f0r the Mexicans or Japanese, who
took charge in January, 1870. He was 8 supposed to have passed through
the first of the family to serve. the country some weeks ago. Early
- Death at Bristol, Tenn., ended the m june the authorities arrested a man.
romantic career of Rev. Alfred Har- He explained that he was' a r-atural-rlson
Burroughs, 83 years old, noted st and was making a study of the ser
rnarrylng parson of Bristol's Gretna pent life In this section. . -He was
Green, after-the aged man had mar- carrying a few live reptiles and gave
rled 5,142 eloping couples at his no tel. his name as Dr. Smith. He claimed
maintained for the entertainment of to be hiking from New Orleans to Bos-
young lovers. He was found aeaa in
his garden, where be had gone to
work after supper.
Issued by the office of the Secretary of wIn wm what do you say Miss V,
Bryant?
ton. The real name of . the supposed
spy Is Marquis de la Campamenta.
Wonder how Coonie Thompson and
Estes Bandy are liking Kansas?
Sunday school Is progressing nicely
with a good attendance.
Miss Sallie Dyer spent Saturday
night and Sunday with Misses Ova
and Hattie Dyer.
J. M. Stewart expects to begin
working his saw mill In a few days.
As everybody is asking for cards.
thought I would ask for a shower on
my. birthday, July 27. I will be 15
years old. Address to , ,
Miss Jessie Stewart, Baxter,
Tenn., R. 1, Box 13. 4 r
MONTEREY, ROUTE '
I understand there is to be an
all day singing at Farler Seminary
the fourth Sunday in July.
Johnny Farley is very low with the
fever.
Who said Doyle Farley's mother
waa going to buy him a car for stay
ing at home last Sunday. '
Fred Brown was seen going in the
direction of L. A. Bohannon's with a
smile on his face last Sunday. j
Charley Farley says he would rather
sleep when it is raining than any oth
er time.
Walter Clark
TERRE HAUTE, IND.
This is my first letter since I chan
ged my name. This is a cool summer
but not as wet as last summer was.
The days ar warm and the nights
are cool. It is a great time to make
hay and thresh wheat.
Mr. J. O. Rector dia not say wnere
he was at, when he was leaning
against that tree, but I think I know
where he was. Me must nave oeen
at the head of the cove, above the
Frank Gragg old place, for you could
see most anything there, ine 1.
Rv. crosses near there now. The
moon does not shine up here in the
daytime, so there is no strange ana
magic shapes caused from its white
beams. Now, if I sign my name John
Smith you would not know whether
it was MInda'a orMajer's John, or
Byers Son In law. So It wilj be,
j. a. smitn.
MONTEREY ROUTE S
Dear Editor and Herald Readers:
Here I come with a letter for the
first time. My sister takes the Her
ald and I like it fine.
Mr. L. L. Matthews is pretty 111 with
the fever aow.-
Verlle Phillips visited the writer's
home today.
Ezra Bilbrey was seen on his way
to Mr. Columbus Norrod'g today, and
two of his sisters had their overcoats.
Hello. Lora Suttle of Pleasant win.
why don't you write to the Herald.
Hello, Sallie Buckner, are you dead.
Why don't you write to the Herald
again?
In the county should have a Parent-
Teachers Association, and we would
be glad to have every district repre
sented.. Mrs. Fred White.
A TRIBUTE OF LOVE
Miss Etta Russell died at her home
near Buffalo Valley, Monday, June 19,
1916, leaving a father, five sisters, two
brothers and a host of friends and
relatives to mourn their loss. Etta
was a devoted christian and was dear
ly loved by all who knew her. She
was patient, kind, and loving through
her several months sickness. Always
with cheering words for the family
and telling them not to weep for her,
for she would soon be with her moth
er, who one year ago had bade them
goodbye. Words cannot express how
we miss her at her church and Sunday
school, and at home. There is a va
cant place that can never be filled.
It is hard to give up our loved ones,
but our kind and Heavenly Father
knows best and sends his messenger
o take these loved ones home to
dwell with him forever.
I must say' to the bereaved ones;
though your lives be lonely and your
borne desolate, be faithful.
Effle Leftwich.
SPARTA R. 8
Miss Martha Mae Bohannon visit
ed Miss Lola and Katherine Whit
aker Saturday and Sunday.
Therp wan an all day singing in
Board Valley last Sunday. -
Born to Mr. and Mrs. Luther Whit-
aker on the 26th,a nine pound boy.
Mr. ad Mrs. Henry Stamps visited
Mr and Mrs. Dock Demps Saturday
nigbt and Sunday.
of our county.
2. We also extend our hearty
thankg and appreciation to the .com
petent instructors who have come be
fore us during our work. They have
given us practical and modern .meth
ods which we expect and hope to use
successfully in our work during the
coming school year.
3. Our sincere thanks are also ex
tended to the good ministers of Cooke.
ville who have given us such forcible
and inspiring lectures and. sermons,
which have given us much inspiration
and many new ideas.
4. We are grateful for the into- -resting
way in which the members
of the Story Teller's League . have
taught us to give instruction in the
various branches which we are to
teach. We heartily appreciate the
offer of their service in ouf public
schools. 1, --. '
5. We sincerely appreciate . the .,
many delightful selections of music
which have been rendered by the ma.
stcians of Cookeville.
6. We feel deeply obligated to the
people of, Cookeville for the use of
their public school building during the
institute work, and to the newspapers .
for the co-operation in giving publicity
to our work.
H. D. McCULLEY. Chm., .
J. N. McCLOUD.
TETHA ROWLAND, '''
MYRTLE MITCHELL,
Committee.
HOW BREAD 18 MADE
Sarah L. Kinsey, until recently dia
trlct agent In home economics for
West Tennessee, has written a lz-page
nnblication entitled "Good Light
WTalter WTeaver and wife visited Mr. 1 Bread." It takes up everr part of the
and Mrs. win Henry .Saturday nient. process of bread making in the home.
Misses Alice and Jane Eller visited
the writer last Friday.
Heston Randolph, Lee and George
Sparks are regular visitors at Robert
Eller's every Sunday.
Wonder what Casto Selbv waa look.
Mrs. Ethel Padgett, have you ever lng g0 lonesome about Sunday even-
ate anv more eggs.
I will close by asking for a shower
of birthday cards the 28th of -July. .
and Sarah Stamns I will be 18 Tears of age.
wera happily married one day last j Verna Bilbrey, Monterey, Tenn., . eome on with your letters,
week. Od Farley. 'Route 3, Box 83. Lola leaver.
Ing.
Mr. and Mrs. Vance Weaver visited
J. W Weaver Sunday.
Hello, Julia H. and Mellshie Shir-
Twelve recipes are given for the use
of bread. The book is interesting and -will
be widely read. A copy will be ;
sent free to anyone asking for it Ad
dress letters to Eastern Division.
University of - Tennessee, Knoxville.
Or a copy may be obtained from any
county agent in home economics.
Physical training in childhood is '
the foundation of adult health?
Obesity menaces lory-rity.
