THE BARRE DAILY TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 101.
BAK11E. VKUMOXT, TIIUKSDAV. JULY 13, 1910.
P1UCK. OXK CKXT.
ALMOST LULL
ON WEST FRONT
No Infantry Engagements
To-day in Somme or
Verdun Regions
FRENCH MADE RAID
IN CHAMPAGNE
British Have Again Secured
Complete Control of
Mametz Wood
Turin, July 13. There was no infantry
fighting of importance last night m the
Verdun front or over the portion of the.
Somme-- front held by the French, to
day's official report mt. Intermittent
rtillerv enaairements occurred in the
Somme section.
In the vicinity of Souville, Chenois and
laufee, before Verdun, heavy bom
bardment, was maintained by the Ger
mans. In the Champagne region the
French penetrated a salient of the Ger
man front and took prisoners. Two Ger
man raid in Argonne were stopped by
French fire.
London, July 13. Fighting continue
at various points along the battle front
in the region of tho river Somme in
France, but there is no change in the sit
uation on any part of the British line,
pays en official statement this afternoon.
Attempts of the Germans to raid the
trenches west of Wysehaertz and south
of the Labassce canal were frustrated.
RUSSIAN COME-BACK
PROVES WONDER
OF THE WORLD
tarv experts there are no les than
;in,OOii ticrman lyonet opposing the
advance of General luig force.
The Router eorre.iiondent at the Brit
ish front report that two German Held
guns bearing the date of "1N74" have
been captured by tlie British. Die cor
respondent ak whether, without attach'
ing undue importance to the incident
these guns do not indicate the strait tu
which German are beginning to be ro
duced in order to find sufficient arum'
mentT
The British official statement given
out last nlfiht reads i
"The day marked bv sharp local
ficlitinv in certain area In Mametz
wood. We recaptured all the ground lost
last night and now hold the whole wood.
"We also made progress in Trone
wood. The very large number of Ger
man dead in this vicinity hows the cost'
linens of their attack last night.
"Two heavy German attack against
contalmaisen completely broke down
under our tire."
CONVINCED
DEUTSCHLAND
MERCHANTSIIIP
But United States Government Officials
Will Seek Advice of Neutrality
Board Before a Ruling
is Made.
Six Great Armies are Fighting on the
Western Front and Using a Tre
mendous Supply of Ammu
nition. London, July 13. The recovery of the
Russian armies since their defeats last
year and the apparently inexhaustible
supply of gunsandauimunition with which
they are provided, continues to be the
source of wonder to military writers.
At least six great armies are engaged
against the Austria ns and Germans on
the Russian western front and all are
using great quantities of ammunition.
The forces under Grand Duke Nicholas
in Armenia and Persia have been fight
ing vigorously against the Turks for
months. A few weeks ago parts of these
forces, particularly west of Erzerum,
were compelled to fall back in the face
of a stronger Turkish army. Early
this week the grand duke resumed the
offensive in this region and re-captured
Mamakha Turn, 50 miles from Erzer
um. Meanwhile the armies directly south
of the Pinsk marshes are fighting a
pitched battle with Autsro-German
forces under General Von Linsengen
along the Stokhod river. It probably
will be some days before a decision is
reached as the Teutons have brought up
strong reinforcements in the hope of
saving Kovel. North of the Pinsk
marshes the fighting at present is large
Iv with artillery.
In the west renewed efforts of the
German crown prince at Verdun are tern
porarlly taking precedence over the bat
tie of the Somme, but the British are
still engaged in clearing the Germans
from fortified positions which must be
taken before a general offensive can be
renewed.
Fighting desperately in the face of de
termined German attacks, the forces un
der General Haig succeeded Wednesday
in gaining control of the entire Mametz
wood which had been entered the previ
ous night by the Germans. In the same
region north of the Somme, the British
made some progress in the Trones wood
and repulse1 two heavy attacks against
Contalmaisen. The Germans are report
ed to have lost heavily in their attacks
on Trones wood.
Washington, D. C, July 13. Although
state department officials virtually are
convinced that the German submarine
Deutschland is strictly a merchant ves
sel, the advice of the neutrality board
probably will be sought before a final
ruling is made.
Acting Secretary Polk indicated that
the ruling would not be delayed long.
It i understood he considers that there
is nothing lacking to establish the
Deutschland' status as a peaceful mer
chantman and desires to consult the neu
trality board only in order to give added
weight to the department's formal de
cision.
Diplomats of the allied countries re
ceived information during the day in
dicating that the Peutschland was con-
voved from Bremen almost to the I hesa-
piiake capes by a neutral merchantman,
presumably Norwegiun, Swedish or
Dutch, which aided in shielding her from
detection by enemy warships and also
acted as a tender. This information
may be communicated later to the state
department and an investigation request
ed. Allied warships aie said now to be
searching for the convoy ship.
The state department already has be
gun consideration of questions involving
the departure of the Deutschland. To
prevent violation of neutrality by for
warding of military information from
movements, officials are considering
movements, officials are considering
whether the government should prevent
dissemination of news of her sailing.
The state department yosterday for
mally denied published reports that it
would not be concerned if the Deutsch
land should le attacked and sunk in
violation of international law by hostile
warships after leaving the L'nited States.
It was stated that the government is in
terested in all matters.
BURIED UNDER
MUCH DEBRIS
More Than a Score of Casu
alties in Brooklyn Build
ing Collapse
AMMONIA TANK
WAS BLOWN UP
A Three-Story Building, in
Which Butcher Shop Was
Located, Fell
New York, Julv 13. Seven persons are
reported killed and a number were in
1 1 red when an ammonia tank in a Brook
vn butcher shop exploded to-dar. The
entire three-story building, in which the
shop was located, collapsed, burying the
occupants.
The work of digging the bodies out or
the ruins proceeded slowlv, and an hour
after the explosion it was estimated that
between 20 and 3n persons had heen tnk
en to hospitals, some of them being fa
tally injured.
MANY KILLED,
OTHERS MISSING
AT BUFFALO
Building Collapsed at Outset of Thunder
Storm and Fell on Many Who Had
Sought Refuge from Rain.
Buffalo, N. V., Julv 13. Three men
were killed, six were seriously injured
and several are report ed to be missing
ae the result of the collapse to-day of a
building at the plant of the Sement-
Solvay company on the Niagara river
road. The building went down just as a
thunder storm broke, and some of the
men said that lighting struck the tall
chimney, causing it to collapse. The men
killed had taken refuge from the storm
and were buried under bricks and debris,
BABBITT IS
AGAIN HEAD
Bellows Falls Man Re-elect
ed President of Greater
Vermont Association
NEGOTIATIONS
PROGRESSING
SATISFACTORILY
For Settlement of Border Dispute with
Mexico, According to Statement
of Acting Secretary Polk.
Washington, D. C, July 13. Informal
negotiation for settlement of border dis
putes bid ween the l'nited States and the
de facto government of Mexico are pro.
greasing favorably, Acting Secretary folk
said yesterday alter his second confer
ence with J-.reo Arrcti.imio, .Mexican am
bassador designate.
Although Mr. Polk would not add to
this statement, it is understood that it i
now assured the step being taken fore-
shallow appointment of commissioner by
each government to form a plan of ac
tion for the permanent relief of border
condition.
Mr. Arredondo has not disclosed what
his instructions are, but from other
sources it ha been learned that the com
mission plan was favored by General
Carranza and his advisers and would not
be opposed at th state department. A
Whether the question submitted to the ' .wiwn,
commission will follow the definition of sunring it sessions at 0 o'clock this
he matters In dispute laid down in morning in the memorial room of the
.eneral larrsnras latest note is not itv l-i, rA..w,... .. v,.i
4,,.V, C.,.l..n I ' I
niv .n'n.r,niv aeeenteH h.. definition 'ril Babbitt of Bellows Falls, in-
I .' I I " - - - r - - - - I .
The feican note said the reasonable Ceased the number of the board of di
anxiety of the Tnited States on the! rectors from five to seven member and
,ther hand over the security of it bor- hj.tened to outline, of what the s.socia
MEMBERS GET DOWN
TO CONFERENCES
Banquet Last Evening Was
Attended by Nearly
700
r, and the feeling of the de facto gov
ernment on the other hand that the con
Inued presence of American troop in rr,
Mexico menaced friendly relation, eonstl- eluded
uted the problem to which a Solution
i.. i 1
I,iu-,. irn I. -mum. I - . . ., .
ti,, . 4i. I cpruigiinu, a director ana cnairman oi
there are no present indication that I.,;. ..... u ..j l j . j
tion plan to accomplish th coming
The speaker thi forenoon in
the president, Vice-President
Theodora N. Vail, James Ilartness of
commission would go into questions
cpendent upon these main issues, but
not directly involved in a settlement
the state board of education, and Lucius
E. Wilson of Dorset.
Accepting the report of the nominat-
; ... .u. I . . j . i
'V, '7. J"! lW'Ver; hat 'following officers: President. Frederick H.
r". " .I.:' comm'T Babbitt of Bellow. Falls: vice-president.
T. X. Vail of Lyndonville, Clarke C.
Mexico, including the financial stress
here, would be reviewed to some extent
,'ith the possible result of some more
far-reaching plan being proposed than
one embracing border conditions only.
Fitta of Brattleboro. George E. ('halm
ers of Rutland; treasurer, C. H. Forbush
of Springfield; board of directors, James
llartnes of Springfield, A. J. Holden of
Bennington, Senator Max L. Fowell of
Burlington, J. Gregory Smith of St. Al
lans, C. E. Peck of St. Johiwbury, A. i.
haton of Montpelier and Major C. Hoad-
PATROL COAST W. ""SE
a nc iiirujin:i &my n lllf" l"I.MIl I (I'll HI
IUNDREDS OF
SHARK HUNTERS
SEVEN CASUALTIES
IN POWDER PLANT
HURRIED UNLOADING.
AS STRONG AS EVER
But Anglo-French Offensive is Met By
Reinforcements.
London, July 13. The Anglo-French
offensive is maintaining itself as rigor
ously as ever against the most deter
mined attacks, which the Germans now
are dclivering'against the front in North
ern France. The Germans have thrown
reinforcements to the breach, having had
ample time to recover from the first
shock and the unexpected strength of
the British and rrench attacks.
There is no doubt the Germane had
suppose.) the French to be enfeebled
greatly south of the Somme because of
the number of troops needed in the de
fence of the Verdun against the forces
of the ticrman crown prince.
The fact that the allies are progress
ing so methodically, and even against
Herman attacks, gives the people of the
British and rrench nations the greatest
satisfaction.
General Haig, in a brief bulletin last
night, recounts the recovery by the Brit
ish of all ground lost Tuesday in the
Mameta wood. The British commander
tells also of the- repulse of two heavy
German attacks against Contalmaisen,
and of steady progress by his forces in
the Trones wood, the scene of mifh
heavy and desperate fighting during the
pact few days.
Incidentally. General Haigh comments
on the heavv casualties sustained by the
Germans in their attack against the
P.ritih forces north of the Somme.
From fieneral Hais's bulletin it is
seen tht the British are driving steadily
tn rd the crest of the ri.-U.-e commsn i
irg ti e ide Bspanme plateau. i
Actcrimir to the view of French mili-
Deutschland Is Being Prepared for Re
turn Trip to Germany.
Baltimore, Mri., July 13. That plans
were afoot rapidly to reload the super-
submersible Deutschland and slip her out
speedily on her return voyage to Ger
many was indicated last night. A spe
cial permit was obtained for continuing
the unloading of the vessel.
No one in authority would eay when
the vessel would depart and the only
positive statement in that connection
was obtained in Captain Koenig's dec
laration to the local customs officers
that he expected to sail "within 10 days."
The tug Thomaa F. Timmons completed
repairs yesterday and took up a posi
tion in front of the Deutschland. When
the Timmons entered dry dock it was
reported that she was getting ready to
return to Virginia capes to convoy into
the Chesapeake, as she did the Deutsch
land, the. submarine Bremen, which is
said to be four days on her way to this
country
Two cars of 15.000 gallons each of lu
cricating and fuel oil were ordered for
the Deutschland last Monday. When
they had not arrived yesterday a "hurry
up" tracer was sent out by the railroad
company at the instance of the subma
rines agents.
DuPont Building at Prompton Lakes,N. J
Blown Up and Whole Country
Surrounding Was Shaken.
Pompton Lakes, X. J., July 13. Four
were killed and three were injured to
day when the powder house at the plant
of the DuPont powder works near here
blew up, shaking the surrounding coun
trv.
DEMAND MEN
BE TAKEN BACK
TO WATCH SOLDIERS.
Dr. Thomas Darlington Will Go to Texaa
to Aid Medical Work.
New York, July 13. Dr. Thomas Dar
lington, former public health commis
sioner of New York, will leave to-day
for the Mexican border to study the
health of the regular and National Guard
soldiers on duty there. Dr. Darlington,
who has credentials from Secretary of
War Baker, is consulting sanitarian of
the soldiers' welfare department of the
National Civic federation.
The object of the committee, as an
nounced by the executive council of the
federation, is to acquaint the public with
the progress made since 80? in the care
of soldiers. Reports will be made to the
war department.
Five eighths of the 12f,000 National
Guardsmen called bv the president from
the department of the East, comprising
states east of the Mississippi and the
instnct of lolumbia, were under arms
yesterday, according to a report sent
trom department headquarters. Govern
or" Island, to the secretary of war.
Of the f2.3.'iO men ready for duty,
U,iil have been mustered into the serv
ice of the I nited States. According to
yesterday s figures 4(5,000 men are m
the border r on their way, while 36.550
remain in camp, more than two thirds of
them awaiting the call to depart for the
Mexican frontier.
New York leds in the number of
troop mustered in with 17.451. Penn
sylvania is second with 12.A5S. Dela
ware ha the smallest quota of ny of
the sta'e in the department, while
Rhode Island enjoy the unique distinc
tion of being the only state to respond
with itm Tarinu units up to full war
strength. The tiny New England state
furnished 63 men for its souadmn of
cavalry, a httTT of art;I!erT and an I
ambulance coirpny.
Portland, Me., Street Car Men Struck on
Half Hour's Notice Service Is
Now Nearly Tied Up.
Portland, Me., July 18. The street ca
service of Portland and suburbs remainei
practically at a standstill to-day as the
result of the strike yesterday by 350
linemen, motormen and conductors of
the Cumberland County Power A Light
Co. for the reinstatement of several dis
charged employes. The cars on the Lew
iston line, operated by another company
continued to run; but only a few of the
Cumberland company s cars were taken
from the barns, and they were closely
guarded.
In explaining the action of the strikers,
who gave the company only 80 minutes
to oomply with an ultimatum, Charles
Roux, chairman of the strike committee,
said the time was brief, the company be
ing tendered the same treatment aa the
discharged workmen received. The men,
he said, were summarily discharged and
no reason was given. In addition to the
reinstatement of these men, the strikers
ask for recognition of the union.
But twice since the trolley car service
was instituted in Portland in 1891 have
the car lines of the company been brought
to a full stop. The first instance was
for five minutes at the time of the fu
neral of President McKinley, and tho
second a few months ago when a similar
tribute was paid the late president of
the road, Charles F. Libby.
The strike came with such suddenness
that it found the railroad company quite
unprepared.
For some weeks a representative from
Boston has been working among the
Portland car men. seeking to induce them
to organize and become part of the na
tional brotherhood. The orgsnlzation
work has been going along quietly and it
was not until this week that the officials
of the company got wind of it.
Someone of the carmen acted as a tale
bearer and the outcome was that several
of the men who had been active in the
interests of the union were dismissed
from the service of the company.
Seeking to Discover and Slay the Crea
tures Which Have Caused Terror
Along the Coast of New
Jersey.
Matawan, N. J., July 13. Hundreds of
armed men in rowboats and launches are
hunting to-day for the man-eating shark
that yesterday killed a boy and a man
and dangerously injured another dot and
caused a reign of terror among the sum
mer resorts all along the New Jersey
coast. It was reported this morning that
another man was attacked and killed by
a shark at Key port, at the mouth f the
.Matawan creek.
The body of Lester Rtillwell, the 12-
year-old boy who waa killed here, has
not been recovered, and it Is believed that
it was devoured bv the shark.
Stillwell was killed by a man-eat
ing shark while bathing in an arm
of Karltan bay near here yesterday aft
ernoon. Stanley Fisher, 24 years old, who
went to his aid, was so badly injured in
desperate struggle with the nine-foot
sea monster that he died while being
taken to a Ixng Branch hospital. Joseph
Dunn, Iz years old, bathing some dia
tance away in the same inlet, was attack
ed by a shark and one of his legs was
so lacerated it will probably have to bo
amputated. This is the third time with
n two weeks that, sharks have claimed
the lives of bathers along the Jersey
coast.
The summer population along the New
lersey Coast has become terror stricken
and tew persons now are venturing in
the water at beach resorts.
Efforts were made last night to b.ir
the egress of the sharks to sea by
stretching a wire netting across the in
let where it empties into the bay and it
probable that dynamite will be used to
bring them to the- surface.
TK?.EE OPPOSING VOTES.
Were Cast Against Federal Employes'
Workmen's Compensation.
Washington. D. C, July 13. The Mc-
Gillieuddy-Kern bill providing a system
of workmen's compensation for federal
mployes was passed by the House yes
terday by a vote of 186 to 3.
An amendment adopted would reduce
from $5,000 to $4,000 salaries of the
three commissioners administering the
ystem. Former Speaker Cannon op
posed the bill on the ground that it
should provide for contribution by em
ployers. Representatives Dies and
Page, Democrats, also voted against it
present is approximately 600 and it is the
desire of the officers that the number be
increased to at least 2,000. IVesident
Babbitt said that it had been the aim of
the association the past year to increase
the membership, which would bring in
creased interest and co-operation, rather
than increase the financial strength.
ice -President ail followed the presi
dent and briefly outlined what the asso
ciation plans to do, admired the high
aims and urged the members to do all
the small things possible to help in the
general development of the state and
suggested that money must be expended
in doing the wwk outlined.
Mr. VA ilson led in the discussion on
what work may be accomplished by
board of trade, civic, commercial and
agricultural associations. He explained
why a board of trade or other organisa
tion rouses a community to thought and
action about community interests and
how a system of committees can be or
ganized and be efficient.
He took up the matters of obtaining
members for such organizations, what
type of man should be secured to take
charge and how social occasions, dinners,
meetings and outings assist in holding
the interest. Local newspapers, he said,
can do much toward local development
and said they should always work in
harmony with the boards of trade. He
urged co-operation with farm bureaus
and county agrh-uitural associations and
the benefits to retail trade.
BOYS ARE HOPING TO rri I nrr inn
CROSS RIO GRANDE! iLLL UIT LUu
AND DROWNED
Archie Lcclnlr, Barre Tool
Sharpener, Lost Life in
Winooski River
They Had Experience with Cloudburst
That Wat a Real -Water Cure" Many
Tent Were Flooded and EI Paso
Street Were Foot Deep In Water,
Cauip General Shafter,
F.gle Ps. Tex., July S
At 5:15 this morning we witnessed one
of the wont experiences of thi encamp'
nient in the form of a great cloudburst.
At the above-named time the rain t-ame
down and at ;20 there wa six inches of PULM0T0R ILED
water on the campgrounds, Heids ad-
olnliig the encampment were flooded to
the extent of snvwhere from ten inches
to a foot. Small rivulet were immedi
ately transformed into rvging torrent
ermnnt, Kansas, Maryland and the
regular yere flooded from their quar
ter. .Many regiment ufTercd a severe
losa in the form of equipment. Many
Co. If boy were flooded from their tenU,
especially those in the sergeant tent
At 6:30 the torrent stated and many of
he boys of the ermont rgiment went
out in search of two children who were
TO BE T ' ECTIVE
v'
The Younf in Stopped to
Bathe c Return from a
Visit ,ast Montpelier
s
Out of the stoneshed at 10 a. m. on
reported lo.t in the de.ert during the 'co,lnt of th, "weltering heat yester.
nay, archie jeclair, a tool sharpener.
Edgar R. Wliite and Arthur L. Gardens,
employes of tlie Central Granite Co. on
Smith street, drove to East Montpelier
to inspect a building recently erected by
Joseph Martel. Returning home, thev
Inches in depth. Services in these stores stopped near the Tenney Co.'s station
will be suspended for an indefinite pe- -n r . t. .... . . .
riod owing to the fact that the soil is a , " "'
mixture of sand and clay that makes it "rnrl1 aml Jcl ir "a drowned in ten
impossible for human beings or animals fe"t of water. His body was recovered
storm. At time of writing the search
ad proved futile.
The railway running through the res
ervation wa washed out in place, mak
ing service impossible. Streets in Eagle
as were flooded to the extent of one
foot and many stores were flooded six
to proceed through same.
At present writing all are in good
piriu and all are hoping in the near fu
ll re to have the opportunity to cross the
10 Grande.
This is all for the preaent but hope to
. . . - ,
dvanee more later.
I remain,
Sincerelr vmtrs.
A. G. Edwards.
ENFORCING QUARANTINE.
a short time afterward, but more than
an hour elapsed before the remains were
brought to B. V. Hooker fc Co.'s under
taking establishment In this city.
The delay was occasioned by the ne
cessity of summoning the health officer
and a selectman from Berlin to view tho
body, and pending the arrival of tho
authorities, State's Attorney F. E. Glea
son visited the scene of the drowning
and investigated the circumstances sur-
Barre Health Authorities are Anxious to rounding the man's death. Health Offi
cer A. t;. Norton and S. C. Pike, the
second selectman, after viewing the re.
Precautions recommended by the state mains, joined with the state's attorney
board of health in guarding against a re- in describing Le lair's demise as an arci-
currence of the infantile paralysis epi- dent. Desperate efforts to resuscitate
emie in ermont have been followed by the man had been made bv Dr.f. I).
the Barre health authorities and up to Carey and employes of the Tenney com
dat no cases of the malady have been pany, who used the pulmotor for nearly
reported to Health Officer Dr. J. W. an hour.
Stewart. Here in the city several fain- Companions of Leclair state that tha
ilie have arrived from tho infected area drowning occurred around 3:30 o'clock,
in New York and wherever reports havo Agreeable to a promise made to Mr. Mnr-
been made, the health officer has insist- tel some time aco that thev would in-
ed on a quarantine of two weeks. This spect his new building in East Mont
rule applies to children who have been pelier at an early date, the three co
in great New York since June 20. An workers set out in a team in the after-
added precaution is the irrigation of eacii noon. Arriving at East Montpelier, they
child's nose with salt and water, a sani- went over the grounds with Mr. Martel,
tary measure endorsed by the New York spent some time in discussing his busi-
board of health and followed locally in ness prospects in that locality, and then
partook of a hearty dinner, leaving Mar-
tel's premises a little after 2 o'clock for
the return home. As they neared sta
tion No. 5, it was Lcclair, according to
White and Gardens, who suggested that '
they tether the horse and swim. Se
lecting a likely looking spot near the
BIG BANQUET HELD.
BAD FAITH FEARED.
Redmond Issued Statement Attacking
Lansdowne Plan.
London, July 13. John Redmond, lead
er of the Irish Nationalists, yesterday
issued a - statement characterizing the
speech of the marquis of Lansdowne m
the House of Lords on Xuesday as a dec
laration of war on the Irish people.
lie eay iso tnat ne speecn was a
breach of faith, apparently made with
the intention of wrecking the negotia
tions for a compromise.
"I regard Lord Lansdowne speech as
a gross insult to Ireland," said Mr. Red
mond in hi statement.
"It. amount to a declaration of war
on the Irish people and is an announce
ment of a policy of coercion.
"If this speech be taken as represent
ing the attitude and spirit of the gov-
ernment toward Ireland, there is an end
to all hopes of a settlement. The speech
seems to me to have been made with the
deliberate object of wrecking the neotia-1
ti"ns for a Mttkment."
Minority Leader Mann made a speech
urging its passage.
the measure provides for compensa
tion of all injured federal employes at
the rate of two-thirds the wages loft
during disability with a maximum of
$B6 a month. In case of death the de
pendent widow would be allowed 3o per
cent of the emplove's wages and 10 per
cent additional for each dependent child
under 18, with a limit of two-thirds the
employe's wages. An appropriation of
$500,000 is made for the system. The bill
is pending in the Senate.
TOOK 400 RUSSIANS.
Attended By 68 Persons, Who Heard
Splendid Addresses.
Those persons fortunate enough to
have attended the annual banquet lat
evening in the city hall auditorium at
Montpelier of the Greater Vermont asso
ciation, and there were over 1,000, in
cluding the ladies, who filled the balcony,
were unanimous in stamping the affair as
a success, one of the greatest successes
of its kind ever enjoyed in the state, an
many were firm in the belief it indicated
that Vermont has started on a new era
of prosperity.
Leaving armory hall, where they had
listened to speeches made bv a quarte
of men of national repute, members of
the association at 6 o clock simpl
stepped into the adjoining building an
prepared to enjoy the dinner prepared
Plates were laid for 6S4 persons and this
number would have been larger by over
100 had not the caterer been unable to
meet the demands; for that reason many
Montpelier persons with tickets rehn
quished them to enable their guests to
attend. The balcony was opened to la
dies and wa-s well filled two hour before
cases where children have arrived recent
Jy from the metropolis.
Most of the arrivals from New iork
have been reported in the past
fortnight, although a very small num
ber of children who were in the city be
fore Jidy 1 left New York after June
20. Copies of the regulations and rc- power plant, they stripped and were soon
strictions laid down bv the state board at the waters edge. Messrs. White and
of health have been posted in the lobbv- wardens state that Leclnir waded into
at the federal building, in the hotels, the stream and got a-straddle of a log.
railroad stations and elsewhere. It is Scarcely a moment afterward he rolled
stated that parents and guardians of into the water and disappeared
children here temporarily nave, tor Uie -eiuier oi tne two men who were
most part, shown a commendable dispo- ashore is a strong swimmer, and when
sttion to co-operate with the authorities U-cclair fell from the log they tried un-
m enforcing the restrictions outlined successfully to reach Ins body. George
by the state board. In 1015 five cases of Cutler, an East Montpelier man, was
poliomyelitis were reported in Barre dur- crossing the bridge near the swimming
ing the summer and later in the year, in hole, and it was he who discerned the
the fall, a sixth case was diagnosed. Ai- body in about ten feet of water. Pro-
though they realize that Barre is no curing a strong wire, he. managed to!
more immune from the diseases than (fasten it about the body and pull it
snv other Vermont eommunitv. t.'ie asnore. ny mar tune rne i ennev com-
t- .1 t. I : nnn.r'a fTl J M . K 1 J I
neaun aui'noriiieH are ouc apprcjiensivc i n ,nui-r j u .,ii.iii,it-Mt-i nun int'u no-;
anilamtn Itlfieff hv tolenhrtne arA Ttr Cava' dor- !
ence kiui ana .ur. i.ooKson were soon
hurrying to station No. 5 in nn auto.
FEWER NEW CASES. They brought the pulmotor along, and
Germans Claim Success in an Encircling
Counter Attack.
Berlin, via London, July 13. German
troops, by encircling a counter attack,
have driven back the Russian forces
which had pushed forward in the region
northwest of Biicjisxi in Galicia and hare
taken 400 Russian prisoners, to-day's
official statement says.
HAILSTONES FIVE INCHES
IN CIRCUMFERENCE
AVaitsfield. July 13. A heavy
thunder and hail storm passed over
the south part of this town
Wednesday afternoon. At P. B.
Joslyn's, hailstone measuring five
inches in circumference fell. Many
pane of glass were broken in the
neighborhood and all garden and
field crop were laid flat. The
storm did not reach this Milage at
alt
the post prandial exercises commenced at
10 oVloek.
Colonel George Harvey, editor of the
.North American Review, was introduced
by President F. K. Babbitt and the other
speakers in the order named follow: Gov
ernor Gates, Governor Samuel W. McCall
of Massachusetts; Theodore N. Vail
President James A. Hustis of the Boston
4 Maine and Wendell P. Stafford, judge
of the supreme court of the District of
Columbia, (iovernor Holland H. Spauld
ing was unable to be present and a mes
sage of congratulation was read from
him as governor of New Hampshire on
the occasion of the observance of the
125th anniversary of Vermont entering
the union. Edward A. Filene of the Bos
ton Chamber of Commerce also wired his
regrets.
Among the guests seated at the table
at the head of the nail were Admiral
George Clark, Senator Carroll S. Fage,
Admiral Robert E. Feary. Ex-Governor
Allan M. Fletcher, Go. C. V. Gates. Ex-
Governor E. C. Smith, Hon. John Barrett,
and presidents and member of Vermont
associations in other state.
Colonel Harvey's Stirrini Talk.
Colonel Harvey spoke in part a fol
low: "Many were the times, even in the.
early days, when the fidelity of the peo
ple wavered in some of the ro"nie be
fore inherited craving of the pomp of
rulers, but never for an instant w there
snrh wavering in Vermont. Here she
std unrecognised, even unnm J. in
But Increase in Infantile Paralysis as he lay on the ground near the water.
Deaths in New York. For the better part of an hour, the men
worked the pulmotor. but no siirris of
V- 1 T . 1 , A 1 .. ) .' l.i J . . I - - ' f
.ewr iorK, .(uiy iigin uccree 1Ie appeared. Mate s Attorney lilea
in the number of new cases and a marked
increase in the number of deaths during
the past 24 hours was shown in the daily
bulletin on infantile paralysis to-iay.
Twenty-four deaths and 117 new cases is
the record.
REMEMBERED HIS ROLL.
And Paid for Liberty After Suing An
other Man for $5,000.
Rutland, July 13. As the outcome of
an alleged assault which took place while
the circus was at White River Junction
H.. W. Black, chief detective for the Bar
mim 4 Bailey outfit, was arrested in this
city after the performance Tuesday
night by Deputy Sheriff H. R. Adams on
a civil writ issued on complaint of Irving
SmitJh, a colored employe of the show.
Smifch seeks to recover $5,000 from the
detective claiming that he lost the sight
of one eye by reason of cuts from brok
en glass when Black struck him with
brass knuckle.
Smith had engaged Attorneys Thomas
H. Brown and Ernest H. O'Brien of
this citv and had consulted Dr. G. G.
Marshall an eye specialist. He was about
to leave town and was arrested as an
abscending debtor. He eailmed that lie
had no monev, but after seven hours in
ail remembered a roll in his storking
and yesterday morning bought his lib
erty on payment of $.0.
son, arriving at the station, questioned '
witnesses concerning the accident, and .
then said that the body could be removed 1
as soon as the authorities were notified. '
Some difficulty was encountered in lo- :
eating Health Officer Norton and a nvm- !
ber of the board of selectmen. The J
body was brought to Barre soon after 6
o'clock. A. ,J.- I.ittel of Beckley hill was;
notified of the drowning, and he, in turn, !
carried the sad news to Leclair's mother,
Mrs. Alexander Leclair, v. ho lives in that '
neighborhood. ;
The deceased observed his 20th birth- ;
dav Tuesday. Besides his mother, who
is nearlv prostrated bv the tragedv. Be
leaves three brothers. He had been an
employe of the Central Granite Co. for
some time and was held in high esteem
by workers at the company's plant. His
iarner awn in ifia.
It is expected that the funeral will be.'
held in St. .Monica's church Saturday
morninir at P o'clock. The parish priest,:
Rev. P. M. Mc.Kenna, will officiate. nd '
interment will be made in the Catholic'
cemetery on Beckley street.
JOHNSON A VERILL.
PROSTRATED IN BOSTON.
Continued on fourth pff.)
Barre Young Woman, Misa Elsie Signor-
elli, Victim of Heat Wave.
To-day's Boston paper announces that
Miss Ethel Sitnorclli." aged 23, of Barre
ws one of the heat victims in Koston
csterday. becoming prostrated at the
Northampton street station of the Bos
ton Elevated Railway company and be
ing earned to the lity hospital. The
eat caused three death and 20 prostra-
ion in Boston d urine the dv.
The name given in the Boston pper
should, undoubtedly, be Sijrnorelli. the
nunc lady being a sister of .Urres
ignorelli, a clerk in the Red Om r hsr- j
mary. Mr. and Mrs. ignorrlli and ch.Jd j
arid Miss Signorelli went tu Boston a'
iiort time ajo for a tisit.
Former Taacher t ClnAAarA nf
Barre Bank Cashier. !
The msrriage of Mis Alice Nora Aver- !
ill. daughter of Mr. SteU.i C. Avorill of
S North street, und William Curtis John
son, jr.. also of Barre. took plice yester
day afternoon t the home of the groom"
father. Rev. W. ('. Johnson, in Windsor,
whither the wedding pmty had motored
earlier in the day. Only the immediate ;
relatives were in attendance and the
couple were una t tended. Kev. Mr. John
son wss the officiating elrgVman.
Following tlie ceremony Mr. and Mrs.
Johnson left on weddms tour to place
in Canada, after which tisey will tske up
their re;drnce t "4 Tremnnt street.
FHrre. n! will he "t linmf" ;'tT Aue.
15. The bride lis been for everl ver
in rhirpe of the 'ntnimentil muic de
partment t ird seminary, hsvreg
studied f .u-i'- fur 'inie time in Pottn
follows, 2 l.er (,-rd:u t ic-n from Hrookline.
M. i xh - h '. The frnon ss rhi,-r
of tVe !Vo;l'! N'str,l tii k. in wh.vH
mt:ti!t on i e le r en-jOoiet for sev
en j t , iv::;.; t I .mt from Lrtom,
