1
Q)ir
VOL XXI II, NO. 26
HENDERSONVILLE. N. C. THURSDAY 3UIY, 13, 1916
1.00 PER YEAR, IN ADVANCE
JJ " T!
Mr
Hi
oosiwoies.
tits
in
All Booster Candidates to Make Special Drive tor the
Special Prizes Vhile ''Racing" forvthe Big Ones.
More Candidates Enter Race This Week. Some who
were Nominated Not Active. Names Left Off List
Given Herewith.
TL Booster Campaign will doubtless become "red hot" beginning next
week if that ter mis not already appropriate in describing the interest
c'iown already. The Booster Houses deflnately announce in big page ad
todav the beginning of the Booster Special Prize Period -which starts
londav and continues three weeks during this time almost every Booster
Home "offering a Special Prize for the most business influenced to their
respective houses during the three weeks period' The special prizes are to
be awarded on a basis of dollars and cents, not" votes;-however the- candi
dates will be credited with same scale -of votes towards the touring cars and
diamond rings as usual during the special prize period. There will doubt
less be a scramble for the various prizes offered thereby adding.heat to the
warm race now underway.
Tl'e mizej offered by the various houses are given in the page ad ap
reaiW in this paper. These are of course, additional to the two. Automo
bile and two $100 diamond rings to be given away at close of the main
canii-aisn on August the 26th. The Specials will be awarded on August
5th three weeks before the big campaign comes to a close.
Yo i will note bv list that several names appearing heretofore have been
civi ped from the list of candidates given below. The names not given be-,
low are those who have not called at office for equipment or who have with
drawn to support other Booster Candidates. You will also note that two or
taree new Candidates have just entered -the-race this week and are now
toosting to beat the band others may enter after publication of this list.
The following are the -Booster Candidates reported active.
DISTRICT SO. 1 (City.)
3r. Lance' Read". -Pete
Gianakos,
Miss Catherine Brown,"
Miss Hazel Russ,
Miss Ruth Cowart,
Dorothy Waldorp,
Mrs. A. M. Gover,
DISTRICT
Miss Laura Brown Laurel Park
Miss Natalie Jones Flat Rock
Miss Ellie Pace E. Flat Rock
Miss Sallie Kate Edney.. Dana
Miss Sue Allen .Mills River
Miss Annie Hyder. Route I
Miss Lexine Davenport Horse Shoe
Miss Sallie Mae Sumner, Indian C. PTc
Any of those whose names appeared in the list of nominees heretofore
but who have not become active, so far a8 the Booster Manager can ascer
tain, may yet secure equipment and enter into the race actively as the
nomination votes or any other votes that may have been cast for them and
placed in the ballot boxes still remain to their credit. Voting certificates
issued for nominations or any other ervoting certificates cannot be trans
ferred, however
The Booster Manager requested names of candidates reported not active
omitted from the list this week so that friends of active candidates may not
be mislead, etc. Any Nominees not listed or others having decided to ac
tively enter compaign may call at Manager's office for information, etc., and
start the race yet not too late, by any means and now, right now is a good
time to start in order to get in on the the Special Prizes, also.
Now is the Time for You
to Solicit Subscriptions for
the French Broad Hustler
With the announcement this week reive 000 votes for each dollar turn-
. . -. . "ijjv- fa in on subscriptions, and this is
sauu prizes to De given away uy
the Hustler to the man or woman in
each district turning in the most sub
scriptions between Monday, -July 17,
and Saturday August 5, ja most extra
ordinary opportunity is afford con
testants to win a handsome gold watch
and at the same time tighten up on
their chances of winning either of the
capital prizes a Ford touring car or
a diamond ring.
Although we have -. added several
hundred subscribers to our books since
the contest started, there still remains
a thousand or more persons who ought
to be taking the Hustler, not for the
sake of the contestants alonej, but be
cause the Hustler is one of he best
weeklies in the state, and subscribers
are assured of more than their mon
ey s worth in good, wholesome reading
matter.
While special attention is given to
jocal and county news, the important
happenings of the state and nation are
given in abbreviated form, and other
articles, not strictly of a news nature,
v0t general interest, are run.
We are striving to improve the pa
per in every way possible and if we
can add a thousand or more new sub
scribers during the run of the contest,
improvements can be made on a much
iarger scale
We trust that all friends of the" pa-
,er, anrl rnntoctanii) ;n m
vvu.iowmuj coyciailj', will
e quick to grasp the advantages to
e derived by soliciting subscriptions
rrS,6 Hustler ancl that the subs will
011 in large numbers during the
ext few weeks. All contestants re-
Special frizes Offered 1
SpeGial Prize Period
dai Continues tree f eis
"Aif" Glasener;
Dr. E. P. Mallett,
Mrs. L. M. Dodameade,
Mrs. M. A. Browm,
Reginal Young,
Chief Otis Powers,
Miss Bes3ie Aiken,
R. J, Alderman.
SO. 2.
Mrs. W. W. Sims Hiiigirt
Thomas Lownde3 Flat Rock
Miss Jennie Garreiv Shaws Creek Road
Jos. Brittain-. Fletcher
D. T. Freeman Bat Cave.
Mr. Gresham Kanuga
E. J. Anders .Route 6
W. J. Bishop Saconon.
William Penny.
twice as many votes per dollar than
" :oa -
they can possibly get in any otner
manner. We hope they will get be
hind the subscription part of the con
test in earnest and Boost for the
French Broad -Hustler, Henderson
county's leading newspaper.. The ter
ritory has been worked but little and
the opportunity is square before all
who are in the contest to win. If you
do your part in turning in the sub
scriptions we will see that those who
spend their money for the paper will
Lnot be dissatisfied.
Full details or tne uuubuai.uuw
made in the shape of extra prizes of
fered by the Hustler to the contestants
in the big automobile race can be
found oh the last page. This is Sub
scription period of the big boster cam
paign. Get your friends to take the
Hustler. Votes count faster for the
dollars on subscriptions than any other
way.
DEATH OF A LITTLE EOT.
Erskine the fourteen months old
Cnn nf Mr and Mrs. C P. Rogers ot
East Flat Rock, died Sunday, evening
at 6 o'clockl The little one naa Deen
oiv Reveral days with colitis. Funer-
' 1 rvices COnaUCieU Vjr wi. . 1
Newell of Tryon,. were held at the
MRfdAncA on Monday afternon and tne
remains were shipped to Spartanburg
on the evening train to be viewed by
Mr. Rogers family and from there
were shipped to Baltimore for crema
tion, ---v ; ' -s-.'w:;-
JQ1B011
SLAYER id
'8
Pillill
Ending one of the most famous
oriminai suits ever tried -in a WyonV
ing court", extending over a period Vf
four years, Robert D. 'Meldrum. ''has;
finally been landed -in the - Wyoming !
state " prison, with an indeterminatuU
sentence of from five to seven. yearST
hanging over his head. Meldrum received-this
sentence for the killing of
John Bowen, a son of Mr. and Mrs. J.
N .Bowen of Hendersonville, Route No.
5 in January, 1912. The following is
the story of the last trial and is taken
from the Carbon County Journal, pub
lished at Rawlins, Wyo., dated June
30, .1916: '
"After four year3 of -effort to estab
lish an official right in the slaying of
John Bowen, at Baggs, Wyoming, in
January., 1912, Robert D. Meldrum on
Wednesday of this week entered the
state's prison in this city on an inde
terminate sentence of not less than;
nvyeai-s fior more than seven years.
The sentence waax passed by Judge
Reynolds of Newcastle, sitting in
Cheyenne, and was in obedience to a
verdict of manslaughter rendered by.
a Laramie county jury. ' The third
and last trial qccurred in the capitol
cityfc where it was taken on a change
of venure, and the verdict is a reduc
tion in degree fr.om that returned at a
former trial.
"Meldrum accepted his fate resign
edly, and told the friends who had re
mained close to him during the trial
in Cheyenne that it was hip purpose
to try and earn an abbreviation of the
sentence. There were, however, ap
parent signs of despondency in his de
meanor, from which arose a fear that
he might attempt self-destruction
rather than enter the grim, shadow.
For that reason he was hurried to
Rawlins as quickly after the sentence
as possible. Although formal motion
for "a new trial was made, it is
thought that this famous case has now
reached its end."
Miss Jennie Bowen, sister of the
slain man, who left here about two
months ago to attend the last trial, of
Meldrum for the murder of her broth
er!, and who is expected home some
time in the near future, made many
friends during her stay in Cheyenne,
as is shown by the following clipping
from the Wyoming Tribune of Chey
enne, dated June 27. 1916:
"Miss Jennie Bowen, sister of John
Bowen, who was killed at Baggs, Wy
oming, by Robert Meldrum, has been
in Cheyenne several days attending
the Meldrum trial. x Miss Bowen comes
from Hendersonville. North Carolina,
and arrived at Rawlins two months
ago. where the third trial was sched
uled to be called. Since that time she
has been visiting in.Baggsi, Wyoming,
and Battle Creek, Colorado. She is a
very modest, attractive young lady,
and by her demeanor during the case
has won sympathy and friends from
both the defense and the prosecution.
After a visit to Denver and Battle
Creek, Colo.. Miss Bowen will return
to her North Carolina home."
WRECK MONDAY.
! Fa-eight Train Leaves Track at a Point
Near Try on No One Was Hurt,
Five cars and the engine of a west
bound freight were derailed at the
37 mile post just above Tryon early
Monday morning and traffic on the
Asheville-Spartanburg division of the
Southern Railway was delayed con
siderably. Trains Nos. 41 and 42
transferred passengers and westbound
Carolina Special and Train No. 10
were the first to pass the wreck.
The wet condition -of the fill which
caused the track to give way under
the heavy weight of the freight train
was responsible ' for the wreck, and
Land the cars and engine were piled in
a confused mass down the side of the
embankment. No one was hurt.
All trains ran late' Monday and the
track was no repaired ready for use
uuni luuuuaj ccmug.
Arrivals at the Israel House.
Prof. Gruber and Will Gruber of
Marion; Mrs. Barco, Clearwater, Fla.;
Mrs. Antionette Delocan, New Orleans,
La.; Harry Thompson, Richmond, Va.;
John -Daugherty, Charleston, S. C.
IMS
CAUSE GREAT
Beginning Friday night and jsontih-
uirjg until Monday evening, rain fell
almbst incessantly and as a conse
quence streams in this section were
outfof banks and much damage done
to . Crops and bridges reported.
- Sjnce the waters on the French
Brdad have receded it has been learn
ed that. the damage along the valley
ha been considerable. The water
Aval -the highest in years, and "the river
presented a most awe-inspirjng spec
tacle when at its fuirflood tide. ?
Ve rain wag -our part of the flood
conditions general throughout the
Southern State3 that followed in the
wake of the tropical storm las; week
The French Broad fiver was the
highest : in years, the river at Ashe-f
ville reaching a flood' stage of oxer
nine fet Monday night. No automo
biles or other vehicles could get
through from here to'Asheville on ac
count of the bridges and road inplac93
beifcg covered with water. Trains of
te-Toxaway division were annulled,
the, track in a number of places be
tween here and Brevard being inun
dated, it is- said that a train was
stalled Sunday night on this road on
account of the water putting out the
fire in the fire-box ol the locomotive.
Although 'the damage in this county
has been great, there was no loss of
live and none were rendered home
less. Other sections of the south were
not nearly, so fortunate. Prattville,
Ala., a town of JkOOO inhabitants, was
almost entirely covered by waters of
the Autauga creek, not more than a
dozen of the 2,400 houses" in Laurel,
Miss., ; escaped, damage and 400 per-'84-
are-hsmelessdln .Daytpn.Tenn.
Nine are reported dead as a result of
the storm in Mobile, Ala.
The streams in this section are peculiarly-subject
to overflow, not hav
ing much fall on their way to the
French Broad and very litle rain, is re
quired to cause them to overflow-the
bottom .lands adjacent to thev bed of
the streams. The flood stage in tjie
French Broad shattered all previous
records.
DEATH OF AGED VETERAN.
Capt. J. L. Walker Passes Away at
the Home of His Daughter In
Hendergonville. . .
Following a hort illness Capt. John
L. Walker, for many years a resident
of Hendersonville, passed away Satur
day morning at 2 o'clock at the resi
dence of his daughter; Mrs. A. E. Hart
on Sixth avenue," with whom he had
been making his home. Capt. Walker
was a native of Greenville county, S'.
C. and was In hi3 83rd year. Besides
Mrs. Hart, who was his only living
child, the deceased is survived by one
sister;, Mrs. Wfctson of Greenville, S.
C, and one-brother. Dr. Geo. Walker,
also of Greenville.
Funeral services were held from tlie
home Sunday afternoon conducted by
Rev. K. W. Cawthon, pastor of the
Baptist church and the remains were
laid to rest in the-city cemetery.
Capt. Walker was a highly respect
ed citizen and numbered his friends
by his acquaintances. He was a vet
eran of the Civil War and came
through that strife with a good record
as a soldier.
His bereaved daughter and other
relatives have the sympathy of the
community.
NEW BUTTERMAKER,
Blue BJdgre Creamery Secures Services
of W. R. Beid of Clemson College.
The Blue Ridge Creamery, lately
re-organized and many improvements
added, has secured the services of W.
R. Reid of Clemson College, S. C, as
buttermaker. Mr. Reid knows his
business well and the quality of the
product under his management will be
the very best. All cream that does not
come un to the present high standard
maintained will - be made into an off
brand of butter.
The creamery is now operated on
the co-operative plan and farmers are
receiving 30 cents a pound for their
butter fat which i3 considered a splen-
did" price. The advantages of a co-
the "raisin of better stock, better land
an ithe keeping of more money at
home.
The creamery has lately been thor
oughly overhauled and modern butter
making, machinery added? .All -doors
are. screened and there is no odor
present in and around the building.
The creamery now has the advantage
of a good buttermaker. pure cream
and fine climatic conditions, all these
combining to insure its merited suc
cess. - ' . . ' -
Miss Bernice Jackson,T who has Just
graduated - from the - Hygia Hospital
of Richmond is ; visiting her: parents
Mr. and Mrs. Eronlow JackscnV
i
ilOSSISOUJH
BAPTISTS TO MEET.
Carolina Association Will Convene
With the Horse Sfeoe Church
FrMajj, July. 28.
A strong program has been arrang
ed for the meeting of the Carolina
Baptist Association, which convenes
with Horse Shoe Baptist church "-Friday,
July 28. The meeting of the as
sociation will continue over tne- Sun
day following.
The Program:
"Friday, July 28.
11:30 a. m. Sermon by , Rev. K. W.
- -Cawthon. . .
Friday Afternoon. '
Evangelism.
2 : 00 p. m.The Pastor 1 a continuous
evangelist, ledby Rev. W. W. Marr..
2:30 p. m. Evangelistic Music,, led by
" Dr. H. M. Poteat. .'.'
3:00 p. in.Personal 'Evangelism, led
by Miss Eula Balwin.
3:00 p. m: The Annual Revival, led
by Rev. C. E. Puett.
Friday Evening.
. The Local Church.
8:15 p. m. The purpose of the Church
discipline, led by Rev. W. A. Morris.
The Lord's Treasury, led by Rev. J. J.
H- Slattery.
The Young Peoples' Work, led by
Roy Brown.
Saturday Morning. ,
Our ; Associations! Work.
9:00 a. m. Prayer and praise service.
9:30 a. m. Meeting the destitution in
Henderson County, led by Rev. H. R.
Freeman, and J. Gibbs. '
10:00 a. m. The Pastor's Fieldj, led
by Rev. T. C. King. -10:30
a. m. Fruitland Institute,
(a) A young man at Fruitland, Joe
; Capps.
(b) A yourig woman at Fruitland, Miss
Delia Moffitt.
(c) Fruitland Institute as I know it.
W. B. Sinclair.
(d) Fruitland-and Hendersm County,
Supt. W. S. Shitle.
11:30 a. m. Sermon by Rev. lN. A.
; Melton. " :5
Saturday Afternoon.
? Our Convention Work.
2;gJailsRinnaT;by;;.Tew
Shipman.
Educational by J. Foy Justice.
Social by C. E. Blackstock.
Saturday Evening.
8:15 p. m. Woman's Work.
Mrs. J. F. Brooks, Rev. George F.
Wright and Miss Ada Greenwood.
Sunday Morning.
10:00 a. m. The Opportunity of the
Sunday School.
The trained teacher Rev. R. N. Pratt.
To-day's lesson taught by T. Few Ship
man. 11:00 a. mj Sermon by Rev. A I.
Justice.
An open discussion will follow the
opening address on each topic. The
opening address will be limited to 15
minutes. The entire program will be
interspersed with mushv and the
churches are urged to. be present ajad
take part.
STORE BANKRUPT. .
Staton Hardware Company Filed Pe
tition in Voluntary Bankruptcy
Wednesday.
The Staton Hardware Company of
this city has filed a petition in volun
tary bankruptcy. The liabilities of
ihe firm are $6,721 SS and the assets
are given at $5,11 40. This firm has
been doing -a aplndid business here
and. most of tfc- :'obta are for mer
chandise purchased from wholesale
dealers. U. G. Staton and C. G. Jones
have been conducting the business. .
The petition was filed with United
States Court Clerk W. S. Hyames at
Asheville.
ASHEYILLE HEADS S. Jf. P. A.
The Southern Newspaper Publishers'
association in session at Asheville this
week elected Robert S. Jones of th-
Citizenj, president; F. G. Bell, Savannah
News, first vice president; D. D. Moore.
New Orleans Picayune, second vice
president: -Walter Johnson. Chatta
nooga News, secretary and treasurer.
A Full Investigation of the
Election Contest Between
Brown and Blythe July 3 1
A full and complete hearing of the
election contest, between Z. Z. Blythe
and W. F. Brown, candidates in the
recent republican primary for the
nomination for county tax collector
and treasurer will be held before the
county board of elections Tuesday,
July 31. j
The board was in session Tuesday
morning in the court house for the
purpose of Jiearing" the argument in
the case. W.-F. Edwards was chair
man and F. Z. Morris, secretary. Mr.
Blythe. through his atorneysj O. V. F.
Blythe, W,: C. Rector, and George Val
entine, read - their complain, alleging
irregularities in the second primary
July 1, and "claimedthat Brown re
ceived more votes '- in 'several precincts
(ICK 01
TOLL CHARGES
MAORELPM
The new practice of collecting a toll
of five ients from each person entering
Laurel Park put into effect this year J3
working very satisfactorily, Mr. Smith '
says. Few persons register a kick and
Mr. Smith agrees to return the price
to anyone who is not satisfied after'
paying? the toll-and seeine thp nark.
This charge was made necessary in or
der for the owners to make enough to
keep the park up to the present high
standard. A person can go outonthe
car and: pays five cents pr he "can enter .
in any. other manner and "the charge"
will .be the same. The toll charge -makes:
it as cheap to ride as to walk. "
" One of the first impressions a strang
er gets of the park is the natural .beau
ty of the surroundings. Nature here
is "seen in all her beauty and this has -been
added- to by the improvements " '
made by the estate? Beautiful winding -drives,
lakes and canals greet the eye
and numerous amusement features are -everywhere
in evidence., ,The greatest
importance is attached to .Crystal
Springs, the Swiss railway, the lakesj,
bathing beach, etc. Crystal Springs
enjoys the distinction of being one- of
the finest in the world, and certainly
no prettier spring jean be found any
where. Its water is of the purest crys
tal and its setting is magnificent. The
water is now being used by the Caroli
na Terrace Hotel and the drug, stores
of the city will be serving it soon.
The story is told "of an Italian, who
searched the world over for a spring
more beautiful than this one. and was
forced to give up and acknowledge the
claims of Crystal Springs. He spent a
summer here several vears aeo and
afterwards travelled .extensively. Bear
ing in mind tne oner of Mr.:smith 10
give a certain sum of money to anyone
who would say thfey had seen a prettier
spring than Crystal, he took a special
interest in springs in the different .
places he visited but he -came back
and handed the decision to the spring
in Laurel Park, i
The park is now enjoyvng a splendid
summer patronage. There are two
camp schools, one for girls and one for
boys, situated in the park, and both
have a good attendance. Besides the
amusement and outing features afford
ed by, the park it is becoming a mosit
desirable resident, section and many
fine cottages have been erected within
its borders. - The street car makes the
trip to the park on a convenient -and
frequent schedule, the cars leaving
Main street at its intersection with
Fifth avenue. ; '...."
SINGI3G CLASS COMING.
A class of children from the Odd
Fellows Orphan Home at Goldsboro,
will give a concert in Hendersonville
Tuesday, July 18. There are seven
boys and nine girls in the class and
the program that the children will
render ig a splendid one. 'Everybody
invited.
DANIELS THANKS BBEESE.
Secretary Daniels has written a let
ter of thanks to Mr. W. E. Breese. jr.,
of Brevard for the patriotic offer of
his services to the navy in case they
should be needed. Mr. Breese was at
one time a member of the North Car
olina legislature.
NEW MEMBER SCHOOL BOARD
O. V. F. Blythe has been elected to
membership on the board of trustees
of the Hendersonville graded school
to succeed IL G. Staton, whose term
had expired. A. L. Gurleyt Vho had"
been filling out the unexpired term of
R. C. Clarke, was elected for a four
year term.
than he was entitled to.
Brown, according to the official re
turns, received a majority ot four
votes over Blythe. He was represent
eded at the hearing by Smith & Ship
man and their demurrer to the com
plaint of Blythe was overruled by the
board, it being - decided after hearing
the argument, to give the affair a
thorough and impartial . investigation.
It was decided by the board, that in
order to be fair-to both men concerned
they must hear the evidence in the
case, as none was introducde- at the
hearing -Tuesday, and by agreement of
the attorneys . on both sides, Tuesdayr
July 31, was set as the date for a sec
ond hearing when witnesses and oth
er evidence will be introduce!
ill
