NIGHT
EXTRA
Cuening
TF I N A N C I A L EDIT! ON x
ffie&ger
NIGHT
EXTRA
toi. m. no.
20
Blues smash
BULGARIANS IN
DOUBLE PUSH
Drive Back MiJhemy
and Capture Town of
Nevolen
British
FIGHTS ON 600-MILE LINE
Within Easy Artillery
lUnffe of Foe's Mace
donian Base
'I
r DJItUlil, wtu w.
ftiriand'a land fleet of "tanks," or
; watered automobiles, Is being wiped
tedbr "c "Crmans on inc oonrae
frmt, says the military critic of the
Ontteta News Agency today, five of
r iu iranrrd nrks have already been
aWtreTea, according to the military ex-
i rt,vho adds: "The British land fleet
rM teen be composca 01 wrexns.
, LONDON, Oct 6. Bulgarian troops
jT' eraeaatcd several villages on the
i bank of the River Struma, where
I fe British have begun an offensive, the
Vr Office announce! mts aucrnoon.
le Transylvania, Field Marshal Fal
beeajn has won a new victory over
fce Rumanians, driving the enemy's
tester back across the Homorod and
'Ma Rivers and storming Cinca.
Important developments havo oc-
eerred in tho Balkan theater of war
sg the last twenty-four hours, over-
gjbdowing tho operations in nil other
ms of fighting.
The Bulgarians facing the British in
Xtcedonia are in retreat, which may
mbmI a realignment of their forces
" all the way along tho Struma River.
However, Conflicting reports wore
Weed by the British and Bulgarian
yitt Offices on these operations.
The British announced tho capture of
jfe Greek town of Novoten, whilo Sofia
sH that the British drive in that dl-
jtion failed. The Bulgarian War Of-
m. also ctatea mac auoi wo jvu
Mian troops that invaded Bulgaria
e now retired across tho Danube to
:Jkowrt tcrrit&ry. -' '
I Violent conflicts aro In progress upon
Fiia the western land eastern fronts.
W correspondent- 01 wo, uennun
ytper, Lokal AnYeiger, on the eastern
fmt describes 3htf fighting In Vol
kjrriia as rivaling tho battles on 'tho
Semme front for fierceness. At one
fj point the Russians had 1000 cannon
;,Msed, pouring tcrrmc salvos into
the German positions.
For the first timo in many months
tfcere has been a renewal of fighting on
tie western front outside of tho sectors
ef the Sommo and Verdun. Tho British,
wing gas, attacked the German posi
tions near Loos, whilo numerous trench
L raids were carried out.
In the Verdun region, where tnero
W been a lull, gigantic artillery ac-
havo developed.
PHILADELPHIA, FltTDAY, OCTOBEll G, 101G
CornwHT, ltis, it tb fciuo Lcmh Counnt
purcE cxntc cism
ARRESTED IN FATAL NEW JERSEY HOLDUP CASE
M' k'jZjjVEWt. ; T
!' ? Wt- W' K Ut' lBKr VIhHbv
M&s?:
jBk "r Jr "
viti wmmr i
sZsm. .lFl
COUNTRY BOY'S TIP
LED TO 6 ARRESTS
IN JERSEY MURDER
Noticed Number on Auto in
Which Alleged, Bandits
Pled
GIRL MAY BARE CRIME
HXQ FERDINAND'S TROOPS
IN RETREAT ON STRUMA LINE;
TERRIFIC BATTLE RAGING
Jy LONDON. UCl. o.
i'lwilB tevere Ashtlng on the Struma front;
m-W M omolally announced today in a aia-
llcKfrom Salonlca.
The town of Nevolen waa occupied by the
iJWtWi without Ion after a brief artillery
P?P4US
At the same time violent fighting- has
ken out on the Allies' rlBht wlnr.Gen-
. ! ftarrall renorted. The battle is raging
' ta gTMit intensity on tho entire Medilll-
inuiesniKa jine,
Te Bylearlan troops oi) tho Struma
have begun a general retreat, tho War
, announced. Violent attnrttn hv the
S? lllslodBe1 Wn Ferdinand's forcea
tlr atrongiy fortined poaltlons.
Ikaa battles, upon which the ultimate
t th war may depend, aro raglnir
wi fronta that aggregate a width of
Sjv? m PuJKartan armies are
WCwnd64 on the north and south by
JJJWttobi French, Jtusalanuk Italians.
M and Rumanlina,
i ja er the -Rumanian army that in
"e"wlgarla near ,tiHfttcui...i i. .m
jyw.oubt. AccoMlwtto Bona. It was
aattui rr. J ".. t.
i ""J0 by aupwUt mhhWh, were
F H IPaae ITeor. Column Twe
.THE WEATHER
' FORECAST
ftlLirWaSSs
f Srt.,. gZZZ&
yfcws
LWWt,Jl- w.y
"SSu'iifSiS:
-KU0-
Twi unai
Wss.lfe!as::ti
.-vKiMTVUt at KAtH Hank
A 12-ycar-old country boy, identity as
yet unestabllshed, furnished tho clue upon
which a young woman andrco men are
being held at City Hall, and two other
men In Camden, as alleged principals and
participants In the hold-up near Atslon, N.
J., yesterday during which Henry Illder,
of Howell, Mich., waa shot dead and his
brother, Andrew Jackson Rider, of llam
monton; his niece, Mrs. Elsie Smathers,
and James Itlgby, an employe of A. J.
Rider, seriously wounded.
Captain Tate, of the Detective Bureau,
said the boy's evidence would clear up many
details of tho crime. The lad was an eye
witness of the attack upon tho Rider au
tomobile and the shooting of Its occu
pants. He noted the license tag on tho
car In which the bandits fled from the
scene of the shooting. After Jotting the
number on a scrap of paper he hailed tho
first passer-by, who happened to be Dr.
Georgo Moore, or 15 Prospect place, Tren
ton, to whom he told hts story and gave
(he llcenso number.
THONED TO POLICE
Doctor 'MooreT'ln turn, telephoned to the
police of Philadelphia and Camden, and
through tho .boy's information, the automo
bile was located, and Its owner, Frank
Vessella, nineteen years oldr 1147 outh
Eighth street, arrested.
From Vessella's statements to the police
the other arrests were made.
Millie dl Marco, nineteen years old, and
Giuseppe Rosso, twenty-two years old, of
1128 South Twelfth street, were taken into
custody at that address. The girl, the de
tectives assert, was the Instigator of the
attack, which culminated In murder, though
falling in 'its object, which was the stealing
of a pay sack containing (4000, which A. J.
Rider was conveying; to his cranberry pick
ing forces.
PRISONERS HELD
Vessella, Rosso, Millie dl Marco and
Frank Ledonne, twenty-one years old, 1162
Passyunk avenue, were arraigned this after
noon at Central Station. Detecthes Calla
han and Geonettl, who, with District Detec
tive Hcnneke, mado the arrest, were the
only witnesses.
Magistrate Pennock committed the girl
and the three men without ball to awlat
extradltlop., A. D. G. Davis represented
the prlsonors, but asked no questions. The
hearing room was crowded, many neighbors
of the persona under arrest attending the
brief proceedings.
Fugitive warrants charging murder were
sworn out before Justice of tho Peace Her
man Hellbron, of Burlington County. Pros
ecutor Kelsey has gone to Trenton to nr,
range for the extradition of the prisoners.
Detective Ellis Parker, of Mount Holly,
told Captain Tate today that he could pro
duce three, witnesses who would Identify
Rosso aa a participant in tne npld-ur three
weeka ago of an Italian woman, her son
and daughter, near "White Bog, on tho out
skirts of Browns Mills, N. J. More than
12100 waa taken by the perpetrators of this
robbery.
By a strange coincidence the mother of
Millie dl Marco Is a patient at Jefferson
Continued on rate Fit. Column Four
ONE SHOT IN CAPTURE
OF DOPE SALE SUSPECTS
Policeman Arreatg Three and
Wounds Man Who Tries
to Escape
. , . .
One man waa shot today at noon In the
eapture of three, nwi awpyeted by the
police of feelnir narcotio dru peddlers,
The Injured .man. abet In the right )f
by Polteewin , f the Fifteenth
street and tJoyder' avenue atatWn, Angela
Patttueel. 1799 Sowth Tenth atreet. HeU
In- (H. Agnaa'a HflapKat- HI aoaapairfowe.
who ai tookfd u awalM, a ,heartw,
paid they were Smllio Dadane MlS-iteulh
Carilafo street, and Jee OardweM. IMS
WttHM aUttMt. A " w way-d.
. )tor. whs w
LTSSS wr aSttjw swg
ntoiurr In H near Mt4ath and Jaok-
iutiaei tor aid, bwt before at the h
r. JtiW ooltora "
fir4 at Jattuoe'e ft wbv the iaat-aaa4
broke away and ra.
Left to right, above, arc Gtuscppo
Rosso, charged with tho murder of
Henry Rider nenr Atsion, N. J.;
Frank Vessella and Frank Lcdonnc,
who are held as mntcrinl witnesses.
Below is Millie di Marco, alleged
to bo the "brains" of tho masked
band which fired on tho Rider
automobile.
GRAND JURY INDICTS
SIX AS MEMBERS OF
BLACKMAILERS' GANG
William Butler, of Philadelphia,
Confessed Impersonator of
Federal Officer, Held Two
Names Kept Secret
L.T.LAYT0N&C0.,
BROKERS, FAIL; $44
ASSETS AVAILABLE
Head of Firm Out of City
When Crash
Comes
SENT LETTER TO LAWYER
EVIDENCE MAY STARTLE
NEW YORK, Oct. 6. Six alleged mem
bers of the "million dollar blackmail gang,"
the natton-wldo activities of which wore
recnled recently by Edward West, wealthy
Chicago coffee merchant, were Indicted to
day by the Federol a rand Jury here. War
rants were Issued for thetr immediate ar
rests. Those indicted are:
William Butler, of Philadelphia, alleged
"brains" of the syndicate.
Buda Ooodman, alias Alice Williams, a
young woman now under arrest In Chicago,
charged with having been the luro for
the "blackmailers' " victims.
Homer T, French and James Christian,
now in the Cook County Jail In Chicago.
Two others whoso names nro withheld
from tho public at this time.
Two indictments were returned against
each, ono charging conspiracy and the other
impersonating Federal officers.
Butler, who was brought hero from Phila
delphia ten days ago, pleaded guilty to the
latter charge.
West, who sprang a sensation In Chicago
some days ago, when he publicly admitted
having been fleeced out of $15,000, was
the only witness heard by the Grand Jury.
The trial is expected to bring forth startling
stories from other wealthy victims of the
blackmailers.
TAG0RE, HINDU POET,
TRAILED BY ASSASSINS
Nobel Prize Winner Cancels
California Engagements
Because of Plot
Announcement was made today of the
failure of I. T. iJiyton & Co., stock brokers,
with offices at 74 Real Estate Trust Build
ing. Efforts to find lewder' T. Layton,
tho only member of tho firm according to
tho Stock Exchange directory, wero with
out avail this morning. He was not at
tho offices of tho firm.
When about a doxen customers arrived
they found n notice posted on the door
saying that tho firm hnd suspended nnd
that further information 'could bo had from
J Howard Reber, whoso offices aro at 1001
Chestnut street
Mr. Reber, whorls an attorney and widely
known as a receiver, said nil ho knew about
the firm's affairs was contained in a letter
which ho had received from Mr. Layton yes
terday. PUTS ATTORNEY IN CHARGE
The Utter read:
Atlantic City. N. J Oct 5, 1018.
J. Howard Reber, Esq ,
Philadelphia. Pa.
Dear Slr I hereby authorize you to
act for me personally 'and as trading
aa.I T.' La ton & Co. In tho, roritter
of the financial troubles of both the
foregoing and any other matters which
may arise, Yours truly,
V U T. LAYTON.
The letter was written on plain paper
and was mailed in a plain envelope. It
carried, a Atlantto City postmark, and other
than this thire was nothing by which It
might be traced.
According to Mr. Reber, who said that
ho had mado only a cursory examination,
the assets are $44. This Is on deposit at
the Franklin National Bank.
In addition to these assets, there Is the
membership of Mr, Layton In tho Stock
Exchange. At tho present time (3500 Is
the bid for a membership pn the exchange
and there are understood to be two seats
for sale, one for $(000 and the other
M500.
Mr. Layton, who was admitted to mem
bership In '.ho Stock Exchange, on July
27, 1909, carried two bank accounts, ac
cording to Mr. Reber. One of these was
at tho Franklin National Bank and the
other was with Cassatt & Co., 'bankers,
with offices fn the Commercial Trust Build
ing. Mr. Reber said ho had learned from
Cassatt & Co, that Mr, layton made hla
loans through them, but that there Is no
collateral on deposit with the banking firm,
and furthermore, Mr. Layton owes Cassatt
& Co. 260.
ACCOUNTANTS AT WOnK
Mr. Reber said he had started account
ants to work on the books of tho firm, and
that within a short time he 'expected to
have Information available for customers.
Tho cause of the failure could not be
QUICK NEWS
TODAY'S RACING RESULTS
Tirst Laurel race, mniden fillies, 2-year-olds, 5 1-8 furlongs
Storm Nymph, 112, Byrne, 0.70, $2.70, $2.-10, won; Sen Wavc,
112, Robinson, $2.40, $2.30, second; Polly J., 112, Durllngnmc,
$3.30, third. Time, 1.07 3-5.
Second Laurel race, 3-ycar-olda nnd up, selling, steeplechase,
about 2 miles Dorcrls, 130, W. Allen, $4.30, $3.40, $2,40, won;
Susan B., 132, S. Bush, $10.40, $3.80, second; Golden Vale, 143, w.
Brown, $2.70, third. Time, 3.47 2-5.
Third Laurel race, 2 year-olds, 0 furlongs Arnold, 113, Butwcll,
$2.00, $2.00, $2.20, won; Jock Scot, 110, Tioxlcr, $0.00, $3.10, becond;
Whirling Dun, 112, Koblnson, $2.00, third. Time, 1.13.
Tlrst Vlnds.oi race, selling, put to $000, all ages, foaled In Can
ada, 0 furlongt Hampton Damef 114, Clavcr, $4.20, $2.40, '$2.80,
won; Mosa 1'ox, 112, Wolsteuholm, $2.40, $3.70, tccoud; Viviau S.,
- 101t Barrett, $14.70, third. Time, 1.13 3-5.
COMPEL P. R.T.
TO HEED PACT,
TAYLOR URGES
Former Director -Insist!
on Observance of 1914
Transit Agreement
OPPOSES "EXPERT" PROBE
Would Build Chestnut Street
Subway nnd Fight' Exchange
in Reprisal '
RUSSIA'S LOSSES ESTIMATED AT 7,250,000 MEN
BHRLIN. Oct. 6. Uusla has lost 6,000,000 during tho first two years of tho
war and at least 1,210,000 In this year's offensive, according to estimates from
Donhh sources jrlcn oyt by tho semiofficial news agency today.
1,000,000 RUSSIAN POLES COMING TO AMERICAS
WASHINGTON. Oct. C Russia is negotiating with South American republics
for tho colonization of inoro than 1,000,000 Russian Poles In Iatln-Amcrlca. Klvo
hundred thousand will bo distributed in Venezuela, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru and
Bolivia If tho Ruislnn plan nuccccda, and tho remainder will bo placed In Argentina
and Chill.
WRIGHT GIVES AIRCRAFT PATENTS TO BRITAIN
LONDON, Oct. C Orxllte Wright. American aeroplano inventor, has presented
all his patents free of rha--n to tho Government, today's Ismio of the aviation mag
nzlne Aeroplane riorlnrro. I'.very manufacturer, tho magazine asserted, will there
fore W abe ;.. i.. i e wi.slit patents, said to bo valued at millions of dollars,
unreserved:. 0
FOURTH ADULT VICTIM OF INFANTILE PARALYSIS
A man died today in the Hospital for Contagious Disease of infantile paralysis
tho fourjh adult to succumb to tho malady slnco tho epidemic began In this city.
Ho is Oeorgcv Ir in, twenty-flvo years old, of 4109 Main street, ManayunUv Tubltc
health ofllclals were encouraged by tho fact that no new cases developed today. Tho
total number of cases up to this dato Is 8D4. Of this number 2C3 havo proved fatal.
DARBY CARS CRASH; PASSENGERS SCARED; NONE HURT
Passengers on two crowded Darby cars wero shaken up and frightened at 7:15
this morning, when tho rear trucks of tho "west-bound car running out Cray's Ferry
road Jumped across a switch at Paschall avenuo directly In front of nn approaching
cant-bound car. alas was knocked out of every window In both cars, but the
pnssemccrs escaped sorlous injuries. Tho wrecked cars wero removed to the barn
at Fort -ninth street and Woodland avenue
PARCEL POST LIMIT TO PANAMA UP TO TWENTY POUNDS
WASHINGTON, Oct. 6. Tho first step toward general extension of postal
facilities between the United States and HouthondCentrnl American countries was
taken today ivlicn "tfio Postofflce Department increased tho weight limit for'parcel
post package)) for Panama from clevon to twenty pounds,
remain twelve cents a pound.
The postage rato will
PITTSBURGH PKONE CO. ADVANCES OPERATORS PAY
PITTSBURGH, Oct. C An increase amounting to forty-five per cent lia been
granted operators of tho Pittsburgh and Allegheny Telephone Company, tho local in
dependent company. The officials. In granting tho Increase, pointed out that the
advance In wages was duo In part to tho increased cost of living nnd as a roward
for tho faithfulness of employes. Tho Pittsburgh and Allegheny Telephone Com
pany has had a. precarious existence, but now Is In a good financial position.
PHILADELPHIA GUARDSMEN IN RAILROAD WRECK
PARIS, Tex., Oct. 6. An early supper prevented casualties In the second sec
tion of tho homeward bound First Pennsylvania Infantry, of Philadelphia, when
tho train ran Into an open switch nnd tho kitchen car overturned hero last night.
The kitchen detail had left tho car only shortly before. Thero was no panic in tho
detachment, which consists of Companies F, O, Il'and tho machlno gun company.
Major M. D. Urown, commander, received word that a bridge had been burned
twenty-flvo miles from here and that the section may bo delayed twelve hours.
U. S. LOAN OFFERED FOR HOUSING IN DUBLIN
DUBLIN, Oct. C Great Interest Is manifested here In tho announcement that
Dublin's housing problem may bo solved through the help of an American loan. It
became known today that tho National City Bank of Now York has offered 1,000,000
($5,000,000) at BVJ per cent. Tho housing committee of the Dublin corporations
recommends the acceptance of tho offer. The amount Is to cover the cost of a
schema for workers' dwellings. A special meeting of tho corporations next week
will consider the offer.
SIB RABINDBANATH TAGORE
1 ,
SAff FRANCISCO. Oct. 6 -ExtraprtJl-nary
precautions are being taken by the
polio today to guard SJr Rablndranath
Tagore, Hindu, poet and tabl pri wlnnw,
following discovery of an alld plot t
BSMuwfiwtc him. A a rult Tagore has
oanld ne of ble speaking engagements
in California.
pref. BJhnSljcfe, a vwwaWe Hindu
who oamt'fro "&tekpi to m Tor,
was aaaaM In th slrMt by ether HumIu.
Jt waa saU Moai was mhheg to lodttee
TtoM to refoata fretn hts pM-Brltlefc ut
terances resanUna IwHa.
Potto blame enmitr between the Oadar
partjr and tfce KUalea Dtwaa ttcaty,
.sHtiak eVMfer widely aa ( tfce sjmmm to be
vmtimf in endta artttafi relcn In Iwlla,
or Ik plot against Tie-ore.
Continued on fare Fire, Column Two
3,040,800,000 MATCHES
HERE FROM SWEDEN
Steamship Viken Makes Maiden
Voyngo With $1,961,760
Cargo
A Bhlp crammed full of safety 'matches
to tho number of 3,040,800,000, as nearly
exactly as ono can count matches, arrived
today when tho new Swedish freight steam
ship Vlken, fresh from Clothenburg,'Hwede.i,
docked here.
Tho cargo brought Joy to 'tho smoker
and chased away tho threatening scarcity
In matches.
So precious was tho cargo considered that
the sailors were not allowed to smoke on
the ship's maldon voyage except n the
fo'e's'l. And well might "h a prrcoutlon
be taken, for the oa'rgo was valued at
II. 961,719. The match 'Mp'i voyage was
ooMWeted by, Captain, A. aidwln Lundgren
M Flret Officer Otaf JCyarr in a mtch
Ifee manner.
After the tC.OM at 'tandetlokers,'
mmm$ te tb Ptiijmd Match Corns?,
are iMtoadedi the ehvyiu eave this after
nen for Savannah pt )kt on a cargo f
U mJte lor 8waia uimKkm.
The Viken, an lel vseeeb le Mm
htteet shin set aot by Vbe 8w4en-Ner-
way line, and will My fctwim the Unite
it no eMsMrr.
r
WILL GIVE ALL WAR PROFITS TO FRENCH ORPHANS
LOS ANOni.i:S, Cal Oct. 6. However much the European wa profits W. A.
Clark. Jr. and to dato It has profited him J2.000.000 all will go to tho orphans
of France. Such profits aro distasteful to him.
SHOES TO COST $1 A PAIR MOKE, SAY RETAILERS
WASHINGTON, Oct. 6. An Increase of 1 a pair In tho retail prlco of shoes
was predicted at a meeting of the Washington Shoe Retailors' Association last night.
The cutting off of tho Russian leather supply by the war was given as tho reason.
By A. MERRITT TAYLOR
During the campaign for adequate transit
facilities, with free transfers, In Philadel
phia, I attended scores of mass meetings
throughout the city and called upon th
cltlienu to support my efforts In their be
half, and at theso meetings and In other
public statements I gave my pledgo to th
people that In return for their support I
would stand by them to the flnlth. There
fore, with deep feeling of publlo duty, and
In response to numerous requests received
from tho newspapers and from citizens of
Philadelphia, It becomes my duty to ex
press my views with relation to tho present
crisis which confronts the city and the cltl
sens in respect to transit development
hence I must make the following statement:
On May 27, lo, after many prolonged
conferences between the representative of
tho city, consisting of A. M. Taylor, p. W.
Norrls and F". R. Ford, nnd the representa
tives of the Philadelphia Rapid Transit
Company, E. T Stotesbury, T. E. Mitten,
president; A. E. Newbold and II, Q. Lloyd,
a tentative agreement was concluded by th
Dlrectorcof the Department of City Transit
and tho oMlcers of the Philadelphia Rapid
Transit Company. All at the parties te
(line conferences pledged tlietr beit effort
In Iibto tliU agreement ratified. This tenta-
tlvo ngreemen provided for the construc
tion of subway and elevated lines and ex
tensions thereof by tho city, and for th
equipment and operation thereof by th
Philadelphia Rapid Transit Company.
PROVIDE FRED TRANSFER SYSTEM
This tentative agreement for the equip
ment and operation of the city-owned high
speed lines by the Philadelphia Rapid
Transit Company also provided for th
elimination of tho discriminatory' exchange
ticket (by n. process which afforded, protec
tion to the net Income of the companies),
il provided f.or the adoption of a compre
hensive free transfer system throughout
the city, ond.protected the Company's exist
ing net Income against loss resultant from
tho establishment of the city-owned high
speed lines. It also properly safeguarded
tho Interests of the city and of tho com
pany in all other respects.
Later this tentative agreement was com
municated to the directors of the Philadel
phia Rapid Transit Company by Messrs.
Horatio O. Lloyd and Thomas E. 'Mitten,
with a letter signed by them which read aa
follows:
Onbehalf of E. T. Stotesbury nnd
ourselves we present herewith -outline of
a plan of 'rapid transit development by
the city and the company, which has
been formulated after extended confer
ences with the representatives of th
city administration and city Councils.
In the opinion of all of us, it will
give the citizens the fullest opportunity
of enjoying tho very largo Investment
to bo made by tho city and the company
In the new development and at the same
time offer a just and fair solution of
tho problems which the changed condi
tions of travel will present.
As the Union Traction Company is In
terested In the matter, and as its co
operation Is essential, we recommend
that a committee be appointed to take
up the questions with a like commit
tee of the Union Traction Company,
The tentative agreement was published
broadly throughout the city by the news
papers and In pamphlet form; numerous
publlo meetings were held In nearly every
ward, and Its terms were freely and openly
debated, discussed and approved.
As a result of further conferences held '
while the application of the city for a cer
tificate of publlo convenience was under
consideration by the Publlo Service Com
mission, certain suggestions relating to
modification of the 1914 agreement were
made. The director of the department sign!-
GOETHALS, CLARKE AND RUBLEE ON 8-HOUR BOARD
OMAHA, Neb., Oct. 0. Announcement was made hero that Piesldcnt Wilson
has selected Major General Qeorgo W. Ooethals, Commissioner Clarke, of the Inter
state Commerce Commission, and Georgo Itublee, of the Trndo Commission, for
the board created by Congress to investigate the railroad eight-hour law. General
Goethals will be chairman.
NINE DIE IN CHRISTIAN BROTHERS' SCHOOL FIRE
ST. LOUIS, Mo., Oct. 0, Nine men are known to have perished as the result
of a. flro that destroyed part of the Christian Brothers' College here. Two of the
dead aio aged members of the order. Flvo of tho known dead wero firemen.
U-BOAT SINKS 4000-TON VESSEL FROM NEW YORK
LONDON, Oct. 6. Lloyd's reports that the Russian steamship Tourgal, of -4276
tons, has been sunk, Tho Tourgal sailed from New York on September 17 for Arch'
angel. She was formerly the British steamship Santa Ilrlglda and was built at
Newcastle In 1907. Three Norwegian steamships, Brink, Knut Carl and Ncsjar,
have been sunk, according to Router's Christlanla correspondent.
O'LEARY SUES McCORMICK FOR "HYPHEN" CHARGE
NEW YORK, Oct 6.Vance C, McCormlck, chairman of the Democratic Na
tional Committee, announced that he had been served with a summons In a suit'
for tEO.W brought against him by Jeremiah A. -O'Leary, president of "The Ameri
can Truth Bocfety." O'lary said hi purpose was "to find out, first, whether
hyphmel, so eevlied, W libelous, and, seeopd, whether It w Iftooiuhitmt with
Continued on rat Six, Column Two
B6SAD 3ASHA. ALBANIAN CHIEF, S1NTENCED TO DEATH
LONDON, Oct. , A report on th death jumieoe pnmsel 'by a,Triii
martial at Cn4aUiUi4 o Ksead, faaha, ftr ProyWnnal JsaMnt f Intilfi. ff
has readied Amsterdam, according to a xewr mb4ci. sbjI la n rnnl at hav
ing conspired aaaliwt Turkey, given aid to her enxnl and declared wnjr'uooei her.
The death sent was confirmed by th Sultan. Knead la now leartlag a toroe of
Albanian in th army of Oeaeral Sarrall in Macedonia,
Evening Ledger Experts
to Cover World's Series
THE baseball experts on the staff
of tho Evening Ledcbk will write
detailed accounts of the world's
scries games between Brooklyn and
tho Boston Red Sox for the final
editions and revicv the previous
dny'a play in tho early editions.
CHANDLER D, RICHTER
ono of the leading authorities of the
country and the man who wrote Um
first story of the Giania '"lying
down" to Brooklyn, will analyse each
inning and fellow with a critical
account of the ramc, v:
GRANTLAND RICE
will write each day en &
light" and owe iaatures
battle.
HOUftRT WsMAXJTtm
SMHa Kdtyor, will tales a Birtaftfl
view of tke battle aad write jeW
prcsMMitetM: atones.
etv newifNfiier in we umm,
StoU baa a mat oowpetMt ataiirSfa
;vMitfft
'"&
Jj
4
baatball writan
the EvKi
MUSMNthr, n ouUtd 1
i yna fee solicited tor
in eovertna: th big
ODMW in Boston tai
ntrnoon.
Heart of the Sunset," a New Serial Story of the Mexican Border, by Rex Beach, Begins in Tomorrow's Evening Ledj
tr
