Has kin's Letters
Always on The T.-D. Editorial
,Page and Always Interesting
fUclftttoni*
?
"Seen on the Side?
?
? ? ? ? r
A T.-D. Editorial Page Feature
?Light, Bright and Unique
Sth YEAR
VOI.UMK i>0
\l .Illicit
PRICE, TWO CENTS
I. S. WILL FIGHT,
BUT CAUSE MUST BE
JUST, SAYS WILSON
Wants lo Join League of
Nations to Preserve
Peace of World.
)ISCUSSES WAR, PEACE
AND BUSINESS IN OMAHA
?'resident Cheered by Thousands
During Day, and City Is
in Gala Attire.
ONIMRTISA N CK I,E Hit \ TI O N'
>lzc of Crowds and Enthusiasm Ex
ceeds Anything He Has Experi
enced Since Inauguration.
OMAHA. NBB., October 5.? President
Vlluon discussed the Kur?|ieaii war,
>eace and American business in three
neeehes here to.ilnv. II- declared
Vmerlca Is as ready to fiC),t an any
1.11Ion In the world, but that Its cause
mint be Just. After the war. he said
his nation must join a league of i,a
preserve ^j10 peace of the
vorld.
The President was cheered bv thou
ands during the day. The size of the
rowds and tlio enthusiasm shown far1
exceeded anyihlng has experienced
'Ince his inauguration.
Omaha was In pa la attire for tlio
lay. The celobration, nonpartisan In
haractor. and arranged by a coinmit
ee made up largely of Republicans.
va? given a politP al tou< h by thy
TPRencc of the President.
aim. ih:a< l| 1,(1X1; lilt \ VI II
ON SA'I'I ItII.\ \ MollTlMi
Starting with brief spec he* to
tow tis in Jowa towns this morning
dr. Wilson came heic to deliver three
peeches. attend a fundi and dinner,
oad a parade for an hour and then
eview it. visit the National Swine
?how and hold several political con
'erenccs. He left to-night for I.ong
tranch, N. .J_, where he will arrive
;aturday morning.
Mr*. Wilson was almost as interest
tiff a tlgure to the people of the Mld
lle Wo8t as the President. and was
?ailed upon again and again to ac
tnowiedge the tributes of the cheer
ng crowds.
Sioux Indiana frotn the pirie Itidge
cservatlon formed an Interesting Ten
ure of the show. They presented Mrs.
A ilson with a bouquet of roses with
his note:
"The Sioux tribes hep to present this
oken to the <ireat White Chiefs
qua xv."
At a noonday luti beon tendered l.v
he Omaha < 'ommercial I'lub there
veto more Republicans than Democrats
? resent, due to the fact that the mem
bership of the organization Is largely
lepublican. Victor Rosewater, a mem
ber of the advisory committee of the
tepuhllcan National Committee, occu
pied ;i seat at the President's table, and
'requcntly leil the applause.
other guests of distinction were;
lohn II Morehead. of Nebraska; I'nite.l
states Senator Hitchcock, Kx-Senator
Corris Brown and former <'ongressman
fohn L. Kennedy (Republican), who ;s
ipposing Hitchcock for rc-cl?.? tion.
HA.W Tlll.XtiS IV i:.\i:ium
oiti(;i\ATK in \\ i:s r
President Wilson, in his speech at
ho Commercial <'luh, spoke, in part,
is follows:
"One of the pleasures of coming
nto this Western country is that so
nany things set started here; so many
things, by way of energy or initla
ive. originate here. There was an
idvantage in those old days when there
icere no railroads. You were not (hen
inder the paternal oversight uf the
[Cast. . . . And the railroads perhaps
lave not done you as great a spiritual
service as they have material service.
"They have kept you in communicat
ions which you did not stand in need
>f, for you knew how to take care of
.?ourselves. . . .
"There are many circumstances that
uake one feel that the present state
>f tlio world is beyond measure tragi -
?at. And yet, my fellow-countrymen,
believe that this great catastrophe
vhicli has fallen upon the world in the
ibape of war is going to do us in
Xmerica, at any rate, a great service,
t is going to oblige every man to know
hat he lives In a new age, and that
ie has got to act. not according to
he traditions of the past, but aecord
ng to the necessities of the present
ind the prophecies of the future. . . .
"liver since I was a lad I have found
nyself puzzled by the circumstances
hat America concentrated her plans sol
nuch upon herself and extended tliein J
10 little to the l uge world. This has
larticularly struck me. and must strike \
ivery student of our affairs in respect
o our commercial policy. Only In very
?ccent years have American merchants
ind American manufacturers studied
he markets of the world. They have
alkcd; their public men have preached
ibout their domestic markets. . . .
"With what we boasted and believe?
vhat I believe?to be the best busit#>ss
renins in the world we had not e\-en
bought of using tl?t genius outside
if our own markets. ...
urs*r mi-:in r. tiii: xvniti.i)
AT l.r.A.KT l-'OH m:xt dci aiik
"The extraordinary circumstances
hat for the next decade, at any rale?
ifter thai it will be a matter of our
nvn choice whether it continues or
lot?but for the next decade, at any
ate, we have got to serve the world.
That alters every commercial question,
t alters every political question. It
liters every question of domestic dc
clopmeut. The men who insist upon
rolng on lo do the old things in the
,i,| way are going to be at the lail
? nd of the procession. The swing of
ilir destiny has at last become as wide
is the. horizon. And the thing that we
(Continued on Third Page.) i
?
To Head 8-Hour Inquiry
PRESIDENT PICKS MEN
<lark?\ of |. <". P., and IJulileo, of
Trade Commission, Will Serve
With <?oetlials,
BMAKI) CUKATKI) liV (O.NtJKKSS
Kvecutivo Desires ("lose Study ??r l\n
tire Situation Before Art (iocs Into
KITeet?Ciivos l)ee|i Consideration
to Selcrtiou of Personnel.
OMAllA, NKi:. October \ formal
announcement was made li?-??- to-night
that President Wilson has v ? ? ? t?? < 1
M i Jor -< ;??! i i al Goethal*. < "iimnls.- mncr
Clarle. <if the Interstate Comtnc ??
< "oinmisMon. ami < I???>!? t:<? Itubb'. ?>{ the
Trail.- Commission, .1 m*-111 l?c?r.- ?? f the
hoard ? t- < t ???! b\ i'oi:l-i? - ? < 1 stl
gate th< railroad ? ?: n lit-hotti law
VVIille tli?? law ?!???-!- not go into effect
until Jaii'ia 1 \ I t he I '1 ? -, ? 1 <? 1 i t desired
the member.- of tin- board to give a
< study to tlu- entire si'ir-itim
Gencia] Goethals. who ;I .<<. * as
<-hairnian of tin- hoard. obtained the
I'residenl'.- ? rtiisciit recently to resign
as Goveuiot the I'anama Canal Zone.
Me arrive*: in tins country rrrrntly
with the undcrsta ndint; that he would
not return to the canal.
Mr. Kubh.e was 1 ejected once by tlu*
Senate aa moinlKi- ?. f the I'ederal
Trade Commission. but ? ?- s-erviny a
recess appointment given him hy the
President lie is trom New Hamp
shire.
The President lias given detailed
consideration to selection of the mem
i ers of the hoard, and adminisi rat ioi.
ollleia Is said to-day that he believed
he had collected a Hoard whi h would
in v?-stigate the eig lit-hour law i 111
fairness to the public. the ta ilroiids
and employees.
IMH.1TK AI, \ PI'I I.I VTI(IA>
or MKMIIKIts III- HO \ It It
WASH IXGToX, October ?Commis
sioner Clarke is a llepublican and a,
f irmer grand chief eonduetor nf the
Order of llailway I'omhictoi^. lie I.as
beeti a memhei' of the Interstate * r
ineiro Commission sitici !!?(?". Mr.
Knhlee was appointed to the Ti.de
Commission as a Progressive. hut in
the 1 !? n campaign worked for the
.Democratic candidates in Xcw Hatnp
shire. Be fore oi san'.zatlnn of the Pro
gressive party, lie was a llepublican.'
General Goethals never has been an
active partisan in polities lie was ap
pointed to have charge of const ruc
tlon of the I'anama Canal by President
Roosevelt. ,
MILK DISPUTE UNSETTLED
_
KITurtii to 1-Iinl llriiillni'K IteCween Dis
tributors 11111I Djilr.vnien iti
\p? I orU I'"ji II.
| XKW Y<.>KI\. ' ?etobei ?>.- Kfforts to
i reach a settlement of the deadlock he
j tween distributors and dairvmen. which
1 threatens this city with ;t milk famine,
failed late to-day. when John J. Dillon.
State Oommissiotiei of Poods and Mar
ket.*?. who is the m ? l eihted agent <>f
the Dairymen's League. refused for It's
organization to accept the advance in
price demanded hy the farmers unless
contract.* were made on a six-months
basis. Mr Plllon said, however, tha.t
the farmers would not permit collec
tive bargaining to stand in the way of
an agreement.
$20,000 FOR LOSS OF FEET
Pedrrnl Jury rinds A Kill 11st Itnllroilil
in l-'iivor of rormer Dancer lit
Winter l.nnlcii.
I Special to The Times I dspatch. I
TIMCXTO.V. N*. .1.. October ."..-?A Ked
01 al jury to-day awarded ?"0.n(iO dam
ages to Mrs. Daisy .lames, of Xews:rk.
a former dancer at the Winter Garden, j
New York, against the Dele ware,
Lackawanna and Western Uailroa l for
the loss of both her feet. She was run
down by a train at the Greenwood
Avenue crossing of the company in
Mast Grange in June. 1!?I "1. She sued
for ? 1 ???>.iifin.
HUGHES SEES NO CALLERS
Devoirs Day <0 < 'orrespondenee anil to
Preiinriitioii of Sprcclic.s lie W III
Deliver in M'e.st.
Alt iNTt'l/A IK. X. .1.. t letoher a.?
(!ha ties 10. Ilu|-. lies, who is resting
here preparatory to his third Western
campaign tour, which begins next
Monday, devoted niosl of the ilay to
c>?rrc!4;iondence and to the |>i eparatiou
of speeches he will deliver in the West,
lie saw no callers. Sunday afternoon
he will go to N'ew York hy autpmo
hi.le and will start for the West Mon
day.
. ,K\\ i '.WiK, UcIolmm* 5.? Vance C.
Mt < ormiek. ehaiMilan of the Demo- '
National Committee, announced!
late to-day that tic lia<l been served j
with a summons in a stilt for $50,000 i
brought against lilin by Jeremiah A.'
I'l.ojuy, president of the "American j
Truth Society." ,\tr. McCormick sniil '<
In* had not been apprised, however, of I
the ' hal ves upon which the suit was j
based.
? Ii '> i.eary. in ;t statement issued ?
">ii ! lei Waril. dedaied that his pur-'
pose in instituting the action was "to
ti"'1 lit st. whether hypheni.ym,
so called. Is libelous, and. second, j
whether it is inconsistent with Auieil- '
eanism." j
Mr ''Leasy said he resented a state
ment attributed to Mr. McCormick,!
rftici/.iiiK hitn for sending an "insult
ing message" to President Wilson, in
that message Mr. <> I,ear\ criticized the
I resilient for "not enforcing American'
i luiits against Great Jiritain" and in-j
formed Mr. \\ ilsi>n that lie would not
vot?- for the re-election of the Presi
dent. Mr. Wilson replied that lie.
would "feel deeply mortified to have
> on I Mr. ? ? i<eiiry), <>r anybody lilte
you. vote for me," adding: "Since you
have access to many disloyal Ameri- i
tans and 1 have not. I will ask you
t>> convey tl|s message to them."
V-l IT II \SMII ON STATHJIUXT
Arrr.viiiM; o\ wkdmxiu
In the statement attributed to Mr. |
McCormick. appearing >Mi October 4. ?
and upon which Mr. O'Leary said he
;,ased his suit for libel, the chairman
of the Democratic National Committee?
was i|uoteil as having commented upon
the presence of Charles K. Hughe* ;,t ,
the I nion l.eaf; lie Club reception
Thursday night, concluding with the
statement that there would be no
doubt about Mr. Hughes's position,
because of his silence on the message
sent to the President by Mr. U'Keury.
Mr. O'1-.eary gave out to-night the
following.
"My purpose in suini; Mr. ycCormick
is to liuil out. first, whether hyphen
ism. so called, is libelous, anil, second,
w helhei it is inconsistent with Ameri
canism. I also sue him as a. challenge
to liiin to let an American jury decide
whether a protest to the President be
cause he has not enforced American
rights against Great Britain is dis
loyalty. I also resent the hideous im
putation contained in his statement 1
that any man running for a public
ollice could repudiate my vote or tiie
votes of millions of my fellow-citizens]
who think as 1 do.
"A citizen's loyalty to his country is
not a proper part of a political cam
paign, and, therefore. I feel that it is
wrong to assert it politically, because
it strikes at the fundamentals of our
citizenship.
< vMJinvri: witiioit iui;ht
TO IIHI'l m.vri; 111.? \ o i k
"What right would Charles R.
Hughes have to repudiate me? What {
rignv has he to repudiate any voter J
who would vote for him? I yield to
Mr. McCormick his right to support
Mr. Wilson and to vote for Mr. Wilson,
and. no matter how faithless: I believe
Mr. Wilson tins been in protecting
American lives, properly and com
merce. 1 would never assert that lie
was disloyal because he supported Mr.
Wilson and differed from Mr. Hughes"
John K. Jones, attorney for Mr.
O'i.eary. declared that Mr. O'l.ear*
"also intends to begin other libel suits
against newspapers throughout the
country who have questioned Ins
right anil abused him for sending what
he considered to be a perfectly proper
telegram to the President of the 1'nP/d
States."
.CAR STRIKER'S ON PARADE
Ils.'t ('oiiduclorx. Mtilormcn mill Syiiiiui- j |
ilil/.erM Take I'nrt in Atlanta i
ItemoiiMtral ion. <
ATLANTA. OA., October 5.? In a
parade of striking street car conduc- j ?
tors and motormen and sympathize rs '
here to-ilay. ::S3 men wearing car- ' 1
men's uniforms or parts of uniforms;
were in line. Company olliciais have '
saiil that just prior to the strike, j 1
which was called the night of Sep- ; '
lent her ::u. there were 1,025 conductors | '
and motormen on the pay roll. s> v- |
era I women who marc|ietl in the parade '
to-day were loudly cheered. '
The carmen were led to-day by s- v- i
era 1 members of the union of linemen J
who formerly were employed by the . '
Georgia Kail way anil 1'ow-r Company,1 |
ami who walked out about a month i
before the conductors and motormen
quit work, on the grounds, they said,
thai the company would not rccogni/.c
a newly organized union.
Twelve arrests were made duiinu tliej
day in connect ion with rioting last i
night near llapcville, a suburb, where j
sympathizers with striking motoriiicn j
and conductors attacked street cars.
Those arrested weic held to the I'ni
ton County grand jury on bonds of |
Solid to $I.IUM? each. i:.\cept on a few
lines where service has been tempor
arily abandoned, cars continued to run
to-night on reduced schedules. Kittle
disorder was reported to-day or to-j
night.
KiimmIiim Steamer KiiiiU.
LONDON, Uclober ? Lloyd's report)
that the Itusslan steamer Totirgai. of!
I.27i! tons gross register, has been \
??link.
The Toiirgai sailed from Nov Vnt k I
on September 17 for Archangel. She!
was formerly the liritish steamer I
Santa llrigida. She was built at New- .
castlo in 1JIU7.
O'LEARY IN COURT MAJOR H. S. BARRETT
TO TEST HYPHEN1SM PLEADS NOT GUILTY
Head of "Truth Society" Sues Testimony Shows Remarks Were
Chairman of Democratic Private and Not Intended
National Committee. for Publication.
ASKS $50,000 FOR LIBEL INTEREST IN COURT-MARTIAL
Action Grows Out of Comment Outcome Will Have Important
on Exchange of Telegrams Bearing on Conduct of
With President Wilson. Military Meij.
I tit ? o.| witnesses who testifo-d
i" Ins ? !fi< icii<'v and intecrlty l>oth in
miiitat y ai?| private lire. M.ijor llenry
?S. Miliiott. of the Fourth .Maryland |?.
fantry. now lrjaj t,.?fui?; a general
? "til t-ma it ia I at ('amp Stuart, yester
day i>lead?d "not su||tv? tf, chaises .if
ha viiik made titteian. es prejudicial to
the iioo.1 of ,he service and having
'?ondti. t.-d himself I,, a mamier uiibe
i-oiiiine an .,llicer and a gentleman.
Court eon veiled at 11 o'clock ves
terday mo ,a.m. ami. after the pre*
e111at i"11 .,f harges and tlio entrance
or tl.e plea ..f not euilty, it adjourned
t<> iiieet 2 o'clock in the afternoon.
Witnesses w-Jio testified during the
afternoon session were Jolin II. lie
Faul. .Ir. a reporter f..i tlu- Baltimore
.Star, who wrote the article in which
Major liarrett is quoted as triakinc the
statements for which he is now on
trial; K. I.ester Mnller. a reporter for
the Baltimore American, and Second
lieutenant II. II. Frear, <? f the Fourth
Ma r.vla nd 1 ?: fan try.
"ii account of the absence of other
witnesses, the court adjourned at .V4.1
o clock yesterday afternoon t<> meet
again at. 10 o'clock this morning. Wit
nesses to appear to-day are Colonel
Harry C Jones, t'aptain Ouy M. Stan
ton. Captain Joseph I >. Itrnoks and
Captain Milton llohcrts. all of the
Fourth Maryland Infantry.
S.\tS STATKMKNT WtS MA UK
IN I'ltlVATK COW KltSATlOV
Major liarrett is charged with hav
ini; made statements reported in the
Baltimore Stat of September s to the
clfect that he was tired of the National
Hoard; that he regarded it as entirely
inefficient. and that he intended to
rejiji^n as >oon as he could arrange his
affairs. In the sa-ne article lie is cred
ited with having criticized the manner
in which his troops wore routed from
the border station of Eagle Pass, Tex.,
on the return trip to Maryland. It is
charifod also that Major Barrett re
plied falsely to the question of his
superior officer as to his having made
the statements reported.
John H. McFaul. Jr., the author of
the article which led to the trial, testi
fied that Major Barrett made the re
ported statements in private conversa
tion. nut intending them for publica
lion. When the reporter learned that
Major Barrett did not wish his criti
?isins published, lie attempted to have
them kept out of the paper, but it
was ton late. The Haltimorc Ameri
can, th< morning edition <? f t Ito Star.
(In- next day attempted to pass the
matter off as of a lens serious nature,
it was stated, but the damage could
not be remedied. Colonel Smith, of
the Fourth Maryland Infantry, ordered
Major Barrett arrested, and the Secre
tary of War appointed the court
martial.
Fit it"rio\ i.v
TKSTIKIKS Ml I.I.Kit
"It my idea that there was friction
somewhere," testified li. Lester Muller
yesterday, in answer to the question
i>f the court as to whether lie knew
'if any lin k of harmony between Major
I??rreu _ and his superior ollicer.
"Major Barrett ha.l his whole heart
:ind soul in the best interests of the
regiment, and at the meetings of the
? llicers lie frequentl.x suggested things
whi.li w. re not to the notions of the
i?t hers."
Major Barrett, it was stated by the
ivitnesses, is possessed of the universal
respect ? ? f those who knew hint, lie
is auditor of the Consolidated (.las,
Klectric Light and Bower Company, of
Baltimore. He was snappy and con
?ise in giving orders and in his gen
?ral bearing. Witnesses agreed that
lie was square and fair, open and
frank. It was testified thai he was
l?opular with his men. and one of the
nost efficient otlicers in the National
.Iliard of his State.
"1 don't think lie would do anything
small or dishonest." testified Mr.
Muller. "He never told an untruth
:o inc."
Captain John A. Cutchins, the judge
idvocn Ic. by his iiuestioning l>rouglit
nit the fact that Major Barrett was
in educated man and an experienced
nllicer, being the son of a regular
irmy ollicer, and himself ? former
nemlfer of both* the cnvalry and in
fantry branches of ihe regular service.
I'hc contention of the prosecution ap
pears lo be (hat. under the circum
stances. the indiscreet speeches nt
rihuled to Major Barrett are espcciai
y reprehensible
Should the court find Major Barrett
-?uilty. the heaviest penalty would be
lismissal from the service. In this
ase if is though! that nn order that
(Continued on Tenth f'ngcT)
Watch Worlds Series
on T.-D. Score Board
I lie world nerlcM, pin; liy play,
"ill lie nlio mi on (lie ?eore
hoard nt The Tlmm-I>Im|iii(c|i llulld
I "K tliroiighoiu (lie mcHcm, wlileli
will open on Sitliirdn.i. 'I'hp an.
lion iieeoien I In In line wl(|i (lie
policy of the paper to funilMli It*
render* I lie II rM nrnii of nil nneli
lilu I'vcnl*. nml In lint one of (lie
He vcrn I fen I n res through nhleli The
Tlui?'M-t?Npiilvli "III keep Km render*
In formed of etcrj move made l?y
pin j er* on (lie luilllinu leanin.
Mailed Mlorlen l>y hnMeliall evpertn.
In addition (o the \SNOclnteil IVcmm
/epnrls. will (ell eneli day of (he
work done liy (lie \iirlotm pliij-rr*.
No New Steps Ta^en I
by This Government
to End European War
Washington Believes I hat
Such a Move Now Would i
Be Both Useless and
Inadvisable.
WASH INC. TON. Octobei - No now'
steps i?i (-ml iho Kuropcaii u;ir have
been taken hy the United States. and.
so far a.s otlicials here can forer.ee,
"?ne ,v likely to he taken in the near
luture. according to an authoritative '
statement of the government's position*
obtained to-dav in high official circles. }
While n<? ofllcial professed to know
what is in President Wilson's mind, it :
was declared that no pro-parat ions had
l>een made for discussion of pcaee!
through the usual diplomatic channels,'
and that all the information gathered
Iw-re seemed to indicate that such a
move would he both useless and inad
visable.
Ilegarding the many rumors that the
I tilled States already had made medi
atory advances to the belligerents dur
ing recent months, it was declared
authoritatively that mediation had
neither been offered by this govern-'
ment nor suggested to It from \hrond.
It was flatly stated that no new peace
overtures at all had been made to any j
of the belligerent governments, and!
that no belligerent government had
indicated that such overtures would i
be welcomed.
AW MOVF. XOW U'lll'I.I) III-:
iu;si:.v-ri:n as u.vxiu thai,
While declining tn be quoted directlv
on so delicate a matter, officials here
are understood to lie thoroughly con-i
vinrod that any peace move at this1
time would be resented as unneutral
and might impair the government's
standing as a mediator when the time!
for ar t ion rotnos.
l.loyd George's recent statements
warning against peace moves have
been spoken of hero as unnecessarily
harsh towards this country and un
warranted by any reeent American
move. Attempts to interpret as a
peace move Ambassador von Rern
storfT's visit to President Wilson next
Monday are declared to be without
wArrant. It was announced several
days ago that the ambassador intended
simply to present the Kmperor's per-i
so n a 1 re-ply ?o the President's letter
on Polish relief. !
Much inte.rest was expressed in to
day's announcement that Henry Ford,
founder of the neutral conference at
Stockholm, had summoned Louis P.
I.orhner, general secretary of the con
ference to this country. It was
pointed out that Mr. Ford recently]
?visited President Wilson at Shadow]
Lawn, but officials here do not believe!
the President would seek peace through '
those channels.
. )
BERLIN SUFFERS FOR FOOD
Socialist Vi-iYN|iii|ier Yorwnertn Quoted
ah Telling of Dlllleul I y hi
Provisioning C.'lly.
l.OXDON', octohcr fi.?Great dlf- '
ficulty is heine experfr-need in pro
visioning V? rlin. a to the So- '
cialist newspaper Vorwaerts, of that
?'lty. as <|iiot.-d by I'eutrr's Amsterdam
correspondent. The potato supply is
said t<? have lH-en stopped during the'
last few days, the interruption being
attributed to laek of Held laborers. '
The decrease in the milk supply is j
the sftbj<j< t of anxious discussion by !
the authorities. The newspaper says i
many of the large milk dealers have :
discont iniied their consignments to'
the city, owing the shortage, and
also to th< fact that when they have i
been able t.i s?i-id in small quantities '
the profit has been slight.
According t<. this information, there '
has been a great rush to the soup j
kitchens, which now distribute 31.HOll
portii'iis dail>
FEAR JAPANESE INVASION j
\\ extern Itast-liull Manufacturing Flrui 1
Writes to federal lliireini of
Danger of Competition,
WASHINGTON*. October R.-On the!
I eve ..f the world's series, news came i
! to the l.tureau of Foreign and Do- ]
| mestic Commerce to-day of a Japanese j
invasion the American baseball |
mauufai luring business, which already i
j has <-a pt tired ' 'anada.
In a ppca line to the government tn\|
j repel this invasion of a trade so purely !
[of Aim man oiigin, a Western base
ball manuf.ii turim; linn asserted that)
Japanese manufacturers, despite a pro- |
lective tariff of 10 per cent, at- selling
! 5-cent baseballs in this country for
j ;!ti cents a dozen.
"The danger of the Japanese eoni
I petition." says the letter to the Hureau j
of Foreign and Domestic Commerce,
"is that through tin- leverage of the
5-cent bit.-, l.i II. they eventually will I
create a market for the better grade!
of good:-. The baseball industry is
surely an industry fostered m'- ihc>
[ I'nited States, and as such should he
protected auamst foreign compel ition."
FIRST RAISE IN 50 YEARS j
''?'slitj - l'"ii - \ fiir - Old \\ ouian Cm
Mlnjee nl lie purl men t of Com
merce tietn Salar? Increase.
WASHINGTON. octobci After
fifty years of service lor llie I'nited
States gi i \ e rumen I, the salary of Mr.'
Caroline tii.int I'.uighardt, an eighty-'
tivo-.vcar-old employee of the Depart
ment of Commerce, has been raised
from p.iftrt to *l.Miiii It was her lirsi
raise since she received an appoint- !
ment in the Tteasnrv Department, in
lsfiC. She Has ;t C|\il W.ir nurse.
(?lliciils of tin- Department of Com
merce :-a> he i" one of the most in-i
duslrious workers in the entire clerical j
force. Despite her age. her routine
work involve- much mathematical cal
culation, and she is accurate.
Cunard Line Steamer
Franconia is Sunk
liO.VDO.V. Ocliilicr Tin' Admi
ralty announce* Hint (ho Ciiniird
Ml?*iimrr Kruncniila, employed fur
truiiH|>orl duty, wiin ?nnk III the
.Mediterranean jostfrilnj liy nn
rnciiiy nuIiiiiii rlnc. Tlir Hlennirr linil
tin tr??>|iM nlioaril. 'I'nrlvi* turn of
tlie iTfw of HO- are iiiImnIiik'.
According to (lie Intent nvnllnlile
rrpurtN. tin- I-" ran con In uii.i lielng
used n.H it ItritlNli Imnxporl. Stir
UIIK ii vchkpI of lK.ir.lt ton* crnss,
mill ?nM litillt In illlO. Ilrr maiden
i nj ncr tvn* lirtivrrii l.l\erpool nnd
IIohIoii In February, 11)11.
The l'"ru nron III unn Iifret InnKi
?fvcnty-lwo fwl wlilr, nnil di.M
placed ton*. When kIip ivnn
Imilt Nlir t\n.M I'mmlilrrfil onr of tlie
in on t comfortable Kli'nmfrK of the
< unnril I,Inc.'
'I'lip ln*t report of the I'm ticniiln.
In June, llUJi. nnnoiini'ril tlint nho
linil been chartered to I'lirry llrltish
Iruopfi to the Dardanelles.
]
I
ALL MILITIA NOW IN GAMP
TO SEE BORDER SERVICE
i
Orders to Re Issued at Once for j
Movement of Those at f
Camp Stuart. t
HLIES ARK READY TO LEAVE a
S(|iia<!mn of Cavalry, Corps of En
gineers, Signal Corps and Field
Hospital Will Re Moved ti? Texas
in Xe.vt Few Pars.
WASHINGTON", October S.?All army }
departmental commanders or- j j
tiered hy the War Department to-day : f
to dispatch militia orpanizn t ions still ;
in State mobllixation camps to the
border an soon as they can arrange
transportation facilities. j
The orders affect only tro.ips which ,
hove not K?en service on the border, or j :
about R.OOf) men in Alabama, Georgia.
Florida. North Carolina. South Cam- 1
lina, Tennessee, Virginia. West Vir- : |
ginia, Colorado. New Hampshire, New r
York atid Mississippi. I I
War Department statistics show ; 1
i r
that there are nhout 104.000 militia , (
now on the border. The fi.ooo ordered I t
south to-day will relieve a similar ( ^
force, which will be. returned to their j r
home stations for muster out of the !
Federal service. 1
While officials generally expect the j 1
entire militia will be withdrawn within j
a few weeks, no definite decision on i '
this question has been announced, j [
Secretary Baker, however, has said j
there would be no general redisposi
tion of troops in the Southern Depart
ment until the American-Mexican Joint
commission, in session at Atlantic ' I
City, evolves some system of border j
cont rol.
JIKN AT CA>H' STI AItT
HAtilOH TO SIOK SI'.IIVK K
(.'amp Stuart was cheered yesterday
afternoon by the report th;it the War
Department had ordered nil militia
orgnnidations in mobilization camps to ?
l>e sent to the border :is soon as trans-'
portation facilities could lie secured.!
Xo orders for entraining have been re
ceived from the. Kustern Department,
and it is thought that it will he sev
eral days before such ordcis are re
ceived, but the soldiers are encouraged.
It may be^-it week, at least, before the
necessary railroad cars can l>e secured.
A large part of the i:ti men and
thirty-four officers at Camp Stuart are
citizens of Richmond. The HI lies* Cav-j
airy and the Signal Corps have their
home here, and the engineers arc di-j
vided between Richmond and Norfolk.;
The Held hospital has its headquarters
at l-*ast Radford.
lll.tF.S Xi?\v MMIIKIt
?jr.i mi:.\ ami it offu i:iis
The 1 '.lues number 1 men and sev-j
enteen officers. In addition, there is'
a medical squad attached to the squad
ron consisting of live men and one
officer. Major K. W. Howies is com
mander of the squadron. The troop
commanders are Captain K. II. Micks, j
Troop A; Captain M. I?'. .lames. Troop
It; Captain Myron II llewett. Troop
C. and Captain John A Cutchius,
Troop I >.
The Signal Corps numlicrs sixty-one
men, and is commanded l?y Captain 10.
I'. Conquest. There are sixty-nine men
in Company A, engineers, commanded
)?> Captain W. !?'. II. C.rilllth. The tlcld
hospital has forty-seven men. com
manded by Major .1. C. liowmtin.
Major I'.owman is also acting as chief
surgeon of Camp Stuart The quar-l
terinastcts' corps and the headquarters i
staff will piobal'lj not l>c ordered to
the border with the other troops.
I> \ % 1 > \ > \T ( \MI*
IX l'.\I'F.CTKII TO-IIAV
l'a> <lav conies again to Camp Stuart ,
lo-da.v. The engineers. the Signal '
Corps, the Held hospital and the cav- j
airy had to stand aside last week |
while the Texas-bound artillery re-'
icixed theii September pa v. Now the
left-behind v..tillers will conic to their
i? w II
Private .lames T Tosh, of Coin pa it.\
i", First Virginia Infantry, who dis
ppeiired last Tuesday while on his i
way from Cmnp Stuart to the railroad',
track to entrain for Texas, walked
(Conlinitoil on Second J'age.) i
)
Caiser Starts for Front
Where Principal Fight
ing Is Taking Place.
ERLIN TAKES ISSUE
WITH PETROGRAD REPORT
)enies Assertion That Austro
German Forces Have Been De
feated at Various Places.
Or.MAM.WS SfFFKIC l.OSSKS
rune Divergence in Statements From
Sofia ami Rukharest as In
Fate of Invaders.
RONTx>X, October 5.?With the Rus
Isms still vigorously attacking the
ustro-CJerman forces in Volhynla,
?ost of Lutsk. and thoncf along the.
?holo front to tin; Dniester. In Ghlieia.
Imperor William has started for the
?out of freneral von Linsentren. noar
utsk. where the irincipal fighting i:<
iking place.
At various place.- its this sector iiml
i Galicla Petrograd asserts that "lie
ustro-<}erman forces have been de
?atcd. Berlin, however, takes issue
Ith the Russian War Otlice statement,
ml riot-lares that the only po!nt where
ie Russians reached the Teutonic
nes was north of Kubilito, and that
ere they later were driven out of the
iptured positions. i
Although there is some divergence
i the official reports from Sofia. ami
ukharest concernlngr the fate of the
? roe of Roumanians which was
irown arro.ss the Danube into Rtil
arla. the fan is patent, according to
Rukharest communication. that they
,ive ceased their ?Ytemonstratlon."
Bukharest adds that the Roumanians
ithdrew to the ieft bunk of the Dan
be. hut Sofia asserts that the battle
eld in Northern Bulgaria. between
.ustehuk and Turtukai. where they
rossed the river, is covered with
loumanian dead ;.s .? ? e.-u 11 of their
?treed speedy retirement back to their
\vn soil.
.TTKMITS fO Al>? \ m i:
l\ IHIItltl IliV r'ltt STHATHD
Ail the attempts ?f tic Roumanians
<id itUNM?ii> t<> iiu'v?ine in Dobrudja
ave (iwn frustrated by counterattacks
i {Uf Teutonic titles. Thirteen can
on have fallen into Che tiahds of the
lusslans and Roumanians In this
pg ton.
In Transylvania ihe Roumanians
live raptured near Parajd Atistro-Oer
ihu fortifications after a battle that
isted three days. Near Bekokten.
orth of Kii|t?r?s anil in the vicinity
f the llat^K Mountains', the Rouinu
latis are reported by Berlin as In re
peat, l>ut it is admitted by *he Oerimui
r#r Ottlce that the invaders have made
noth'-r jrain in the Orsovar sector.
Forces of the entente powers have
riven their tine to within twelve
tiles of Monostlr. Sorb la. and occupied
lie town of But" ' ?o the eastern part
f ttio Macedonian r "i*t the occupation
f Veaikeni, :aa - ;h-? Struma River,
y ,ln BrUi&h 5;; admitted by Berlin,
ikc? >M', iU'diu iM.u'wiei the taking #
y the entente forces of N'idje Moun
iin, oust of Monastir. The Italians
ave captured several additional towns
i Albania.
Considerable fighting has again
iken place In Asiatic Turkey, where
long the coastal region Russian land
>r'-es, in co-operation with their fleet,
live made advances on a wide fronf,
itllcting heavy losses on the Turks
nil rapturing arms, ammunition and
upplies, says Petrograd. Constantl
ople reports the repulse of the British
i an attempt to advance along the
uphrates front near Nasirl>Vh.
Little lighting, except by the artll
? ry or the belligerents. is taking place
i ihe Austro-Itall. n theater. A sliu
ar situation exists on the western
'ont in France.
<l\\ v OK VKMKKI 1
rti'TntKii hy mutism
l,i>XI?ON\ October f?.?British troops
L-.sterdny morning captured the entire
>wn "f Vcnikeui, a village in tlreck
acedonia. whh h lies two miles to
le east of the Struma River, says the
ritisli ollicinl statement issued to
iy. Scottish and Irish battalions
specially distinguished themselves in
ie Hull ling f-?r this position, the
atenient adds.
Ot MAM V \ THOOI'S
in itt i,t. \it>
SOFIA, October I t'vla London, Or
iber ? Bulgarian troops from the
otresses of Bustchuk and Turtukai
Hacked and defeated the Roumanian
>rce of sonic sixteen battalions which
?centlv crossed the l?anube into llul
arian territoi\ near llahovo, the War
Mice announced to-day.
i ?i\ the main battle line in Dohrmlja
tempts by i lie Itusslan.s and Kou
aitiaus to advance have been frus
?aled by the artillery and l>> success
il counteratKicks.
Tlis .statement follows
"Roumaniiiii front: On the Danube
ont, tifteen or sixteen Roumanian bat
illons without artillery which crossed
ie I >a n it be near llahovo advanced and
??:lipie;l the villages of J-Mwopol, Ra
mble. lloroissawo. Maolowranowo.
oleniowrajowo and Breselilicn. In or
(o repulse them wo sent two col
iii ii s from Rustcliuk and Turtukai.
n October i'. the troops from Rustehuk
Hacked and speedily
ireed him to seek refuge in 'he direc
on of his pontoon bridge, whi' h
..stioved I ? v Austrian monitors. The
111 |c Held is covered with eiiero\ dead.
??Toward eveiilnv; w>'? occupied Ihe < il
ues ol l.iahowo arid Bahow. I lie
lemv troops retreated in disorder
i.M ward, consequent ly meeting our
,,op-, advancing from Tuiiiikul. The
i rounded enemy was> dispersed l.n >?v
