- *
NO. 360. E WASINOCOB
IN MOST of thebest homses Of
Washingto The HERALD is
H a m aF L. o *IWOread every morning-read for
Hwa Athe news of thed&y and the stoe
H mid. U news of the day.
NO. 36 WASINGTON. D C. FRIDAY. OCOBER 6. 1916. O
WAR AIDING U. S.
SAYS PRESIDENT
Declares America Will Be
Pushed Into World Power.
y E. X. frAN"BURY.
(Ite.mm NeIs SeIrvice.)
Omaha. Nebr.. Oct. L-President Wilson
Feewad a weisome bare today that for
emsas=m and aanence was probaby
eqmalne sew by the inanguration in
Waasaintia stfowr years ago. It
was a nonpsath grestfng to the =an's
Chf Executive bn which Rpoblicanm
took a part a& well as Democrats.
Mr. Wilson made two speech== rods at
the head of a parade end witnessed a his
tolw Pageant =-n-- semim the sem
se~mbeft at Nebrasi a'os .
Mr. Wtloes =e.and his addrae at the
="-mmed Ckhb to ade and the bene
gta whieh. i his ep ia- shold be derived
fr.m the Federal rere "et and other
legislation enacted during his administra
ti. At one part he aid with extraordi
nary emphasis:
"As compared with the verdict of the
neat t"Intyfive years, I do not care a
pepper en about the verdict of IM "
The address, in part, follows:
"There are many obrunstances that
makes one feel that the present state of
the world in beyond measure tragical.
And yet, my fellow countrymen. I believe
that this great catastrophe which has
fallen upon the world in the shape of war
is going to do us &P America, at any rate,
a great service. It is going to oblige
every man to know that he lives in a new
age and that he has got to act not so
cording to the traditions of the past, but
according to the necessities of the gresent
and the propnecies of the future.
Now, the time has come when Amer
icA. having surrounded herself with all
sorts of artifIcial safeguards and difficul
ties and timidities and having refused to
piay the part in the great war of the
world which was providentially cut out
for her has that part thrust upon her.
The extraordinary circumstan a is
that for the next decade, at any rate,
after that it will be a matter of our own
choice whether it continues or not, but for
the next decade. at any rate. we have got
to serve the world. That alters every
commercial question. it alters every po
litical question. it alters every question
"f domestic development.''
TEN LOSE LIVES IN
BLAZE AT ST. LOUIS
Chnistian Brothers' College Building
Destroyed-Aged Men Burn.
(By the luinmetwemsa News ServIee
St. -Louis. Oct. S.-Ten persons lest their
lives in the tire which destroyed part
of the Christian Brothers' College Build
ing here today.
Two aged members of the phristlan
Urothe:-s' order were burned 4to death
their beds: one man war- filed in a
five-story leap; the night watchman of
the institution was suffocated, and five
firemen. two of them lieutenants, were
killed when a five-story fire wall fell.
burying fifteen firemen beneath it.
.x .f the firemen injured during the
blaze are in a serious condition at hos
i tas, and are not expected to live, while
a score of other firemen suffered serious
burns.
The monetary loss is estimated at $M5.
00. Among the dead are Brother Carmac,
1) years old. curator of the Christian
lirothers' College Museum and one of the
most widely known educators in the
country, and Brother Clement. T7 years
old. aso connected with the order, in
hare of the clothing and linen depart
rteot of the college.
Joseph Nolean. attendant to the Broth
ers Carmac and Clement. was trapped in
a room on the fifth floor. As the flames
reached him while he was standing on
the window sill, he plunged forward,
crashing to the ground. forty feet below.
He liv-d but a few minutes.
The fire was extinguished at 7 o'clock
tonight.
BAN ON BAD CHECKS
IJRfED FOR DISTRICT
Board of Trade Industrial Committee
Centers Activities.
Having succeeded in inducing Congress
to enact a law prohibiting false and mis
leading advertising and the statute reg
ulating auctions in the District, the ac
tivities of the industrial interests com
mittee of the Board of Trade will be
centered in an effort to have a bad check
law passed at the next session, accord
ing to an announcement of Chairman
Isaac Gans at a meeting last night.
At the annual meeting of the Boatd
of Trade last January these three meas
ures were designated as measures which
should be given immediate attention by
Congress. with the result that two of I
them were enacted.
The bad check bill was referred to the
District committee of the House, 'but no
action was taken on it, The bill pro
hIbits -the drawing of checks not sup
ported by sufficient funds in hank. A
depositor who overdraws would be given
a limited time to adjust his account;
otherwise the act would constitute a
misdemeanor. Similiar laws are now in
effect in Maryland and Virginia.
At the meeting Chairman Glana and
Secretary Welistood White were named
as a. committee to prepare its annual
report.
BUSINESS AJNOUNCXEN'rs,
PAIN'11NG AND PAPERHANGING,
WALL PAPER. 10c, 15c, 25c AND 60e
paper. 5c and 10c per piece; om
papre $2 u. Plastering and Daat
ing ofal kyhds. LE Plb.UX. 57
st. nw. Phone N. 4570.
There isn't a want you can think of
that can't be filled through the "want
ads" in The Herald. The little announce
ment that appears above is typlcal of
acore of ads presnenting solutions to
every day problems.
You can hire an auto, buy 4 used'er
rent a room, secure a tenant, get help,
get a job, borrow money or get most
aythn byconsulting The Herald's
NO WILSON RULE
3,000 Cheer as Root Assai s
Democratic Regime.
(By the Internatetmal News servis.)
New York. Oct. L-Three thousand men
and women shouted a thunderous "No"
tonight at Carnegie Hall, when ithu
Root asked: 1
"Shall we engage Mr. Wilson. Mr.
Bryan, Mr. McAdoo, Mr. Daniels and the I
rest of the Democratic administration and
a Democratic Congress to manage our af
fairs the next four years?"
Three thousand men and women roared
**Right!" "Bully!" when Mr. Root as
serted:
"The German government ignored the
words of the United States government
in its protest against the slaughter of
Americans aboard the Lasitanla. not be
cause it was ready to fight us, but be
cause it judged that the men in control of
the American government had not the
nerve, courages rsolution or sincerity to
make their threats good."
Again there was a tempest of cheers
and ories of "Never" when Mr. Root de
manded:
"Are the American people willing to
have serious and critical affairs during
the next four years conducted in the
same watchful waiting-modifled by ac
tive interference-way the Mexican bust
nes has been conducted?"
STORMY WEDDED LIFE
OF HAYLYS IS ENDED
Niece of Late Paul Morton Gets Di
vorce in Chicago.
Chicago, Oct. f.-On a charge of de
sertion. Miss Helen Morton Bayly,
daughter of Mark Morton, of the In
ternational Salt Company of this city.
and a niece of the late Paul Morton.
today won her divorce from Roger Clay
Bayly, a noted horseman of the Warren
ton set in Virginia. She and Bayly were
married in 1914 and their life was a
stormy one almost from their wedding
day.
Mrs. Bayly obtained permission to use
her maiden name. The circumstances
of the divorce indicated that it had
been obtained by mutual consent
Bayly had charge of the horses on
the estate of Miss Morton's mother in
Warrenton when 'she married him.
Miss Morton had a bad fall from a,
horse some years ago and many of her
madcap adventures are said to be trace
able to the injuries she received. A day
or two after their wedding she chased
im about the dining-room of their house
with a carving knife.
Three weeks after her marriage, upon
her husband's application, she was ad
judged Mhentally incompetent. but in
March. IMd, she was declared sane again.
She and Bayly did not resume life to
rether.
Mrs. Bayly I weU known in Wash
ington social dircles. She rode at sev
eral meets of the Washington Horse
Show Association prior to her marriage.
which created intense interest here.
DR. HUNT NEAR DEATH;
BRIDE AT HIS BEDSIDE
Early this morning Dr. Arthur L. Hunt.
medical inspector of the District Health
Board, who recently was stricken with
infantile paralysis. was said to be near
death. His bride of two months was
at his bedside with experts of the Public
Health Service. Since early yesterday
horning he had been slowly sinking.
Dr. Hunt is the second Washington
adult to be afflicted with the scourge
since June. He is believed to have con
tracted the disease from some healthy
person who was a carrier of the germ.
TO BAN SMOKING IN BOOTHS.
Utilities (cumission Expeeted to Is- I
sue Order to Telephone Company. f
Cigarette and cigar smokers will have
to curb their desire for smoking while
in telephone booths if a new order now
being considered by the Public Utilities
l:ommlaon is adopted.
W. H. France, of 116 Thomas street
northwest, made the protest, which Is
expected to crystalize into an order for
bidding the practice. Mr. France char
Rcterizes a smoke-filleA booth as "dig
gusting and extremely unpleasant to the
nonsmoker." The telephone company will
be instructed to place signs on the booths
notifying patrons of the new regulation.
LHGH DROPS HAZING. l1
Baseball Takes Place of Hough C
Pranks at Opening,.
South Bethlehem, P., Oct 5.-With an
nrollment of more than 300 new students.
f whom 284 were freshmen, Lehigh Uni
versity started its fifty-first year. The
total enrollment will foot up more than
By vote of the student body there was
Io hazing of freshmen this year. other
:han simple "horseing." That is the an
wual "tie-up" and "banner rush" have
een abolished and in their place the
sophs and freshies will paly a game of C
baseball,
p
SAVES $25,000 AT WASHTUB.
Liegveme Leaves Portune to Omareala
and Children of 30mployers,i
S
Passafe, N. J7., Oct. 5.-Her church and
leveral children in familice where she
ind been employed were beneficiaries in
.he 125,000 estate left by Martha R. Cohen.
colored washerwoman, whose estate is
he largest ever left by member of her(
ace in Passaic County.
Atn inventory of the estate was filed
reaterday by the executor. It repro
ented the esavings of a lifetime earneda
ver the washtub. Mrs. Cohen was 83 a
rears old, She had worked steadily until
inly a few weeks before her death.,
Dity Baya Peramabulators at met
Duaeed Thee Miles an Roar.
Harrisbr'g, Pa., Ocf- S.-Mothers who
top to gossip and then make a rush for
1mg.e pushing their baby coaches at a j
1984 dsangrous to the lives and limbs
af pedestras must change their tao
:los. So swift was the travel of "moth
sr-propelled" vehices in Penbrook, a j
,uburb of 'Harrisburg, that the bdrough t)
ncil was appeale to.
Last night the council passed a traf- fl
Ic ordinance which limits baby coaches d
o three miles an hour and spesiflee that
Q mt be bandled by auub,_
CONFEREES SPLIT
MWexican Board Divided Over
Method of Procedure.
(By the IntesaMemi News service.)
Atlantic City, N. J.. Oct. I.-Disruption
of the Mexican peace confence was
Lvsrted today by a split among the mem
ers of the Mexican delegation.
Senor Alberto Pani apparently broke
tway from his assocates, Senors Ca
3rera and Bonillas, and made it clear that
, compromise must be reached between
he counter claims of Mexico and the
Jnited States.
Cabrera and Bonilas have maintained
hat Cerransa was justified In refusing
.o regard the international affaire of
ilexic as an official part of the com
nission's businees. They have insisted
hat Mexico should carry out her own re
orms In her Own way.
Senor Pani, on the other hand. believes
hat it would benefit Mexico an much am
he United States to have the co-opera
ion of this government in the following
iroposed reforms:
Protection of American lives and prop
rty not only along the border, but In
he interior of Mexico; the re-emtablish
nent of the Mexican currency and bank
ng system upon a sound.basis; the ad
ustment of the taxation decrees so that
hey would encourage Instead of destroy
american enterprises; distribution of
ands among the peons In a way that
would not mean the confiscation of Amer
an agricultural and mining lands In
dexico.
IARRANZA YIELDS TO
EUROPEAN PROTESTS
Will Modify Banking Decree Pending
Discussion of Issue.
The vigorous protests made by Great
Britain and France against Carranza's
lecree which threatened to destroy the
'rench and English banks at Mexico City
tave caused Carranza to yield to these
tations very promptly. It was officially
tated here yesterday that Carransa had
greed to modify his decree so that
Irance and Great Britain are now wili
ng to discuss matters further with him.
Carranza Is also said to be showing
less aggressive attitude on the subject
f taking Pershing's army out of Mexico.
ntimations at the State Department yes
erday were that the Mexican commis
ioners at Atlantic City were no longer
nsisting rn the discussion of that topic
o the exclusion of all others.
Army offleers see in this change of
1ront the result of Ambassador Arre
ondo's visit to Carranza. They believe
krredondo has convinced the First Chief
hat there is no hope of getting Pershing
cross the border until the commissioners
lave agreed to discuss a scheme for the
ehabilitation of Mexico.
(0 BORDER SETTLEMENT
UNTIL AFTER ELECTION
There will be no definite result of the
>resent Mexican negotiations before ele
ion. Also there will be no breaking off
n the parleys prior to November 7.
Consequently neither of the political
arties Is to get any advantag'. despite
he fact that the Democrats i'ad been
oping to "point with pride' to definite
ccomplishments and the Republicans had
esired to "view with alarm" withdrawal
'f Pershing's expedition.
tUSSIANS IN CAUCASSUS
DEFEAT TURKISH ARMY
By the Internatienal News service.)
Petrograd. Oct. 6.-The Russian Cau
asus army has scored an important vie
ory over the Turks, the war office an
ounced today.
In conjunction with Russian naval
orces in the Black Sea, Muscovite troops
ave forced the Ottomans back on a wide
ront and occupied a fortified position in
he region of the Kara Burnu River. The
'urkish losses were heavy, the statement
ays.
HOLD ATMANIAN STRIP.
talians Occupying Coast Ntreteh
Coveted by Greece.
Milan. Oct. S.-The territory held by the
tallans in Southern Albania extends from
he mouth of the Vojussa, north of Va
ma, to Santi Quaranta. a stretch of
bout sixty miles along the coast and
bout eighteen to twenty-five miles in
md.
This territory Is eagerly coveted by
reece, and was occupied by Greek troops
ntil they were compelled by Italy's pro
at and the pressure of the allies to
rithdraw.
EXPEM GREEE TO WAR.
'aris Paper Believes Nation loon
Will Cast in Its Lot.
Paris. Oct. 5.-With the Serbians six
tilen from Monastir and Roumanla scor
1g new successes, the Matin predicts a
hange In the policy of King Constantine
f Greece In favor of the allies. The pa
er declares that the resignation of the
alogeropoulos cabinet is only the fore
unner of this change of front.
The King i now satisnfed, the paper
dds, that Germany is unable to send
ito the Balkan- the al,0 men promised
nid needed to retrieve the situation for
toe central empires.
GRANDPA'S BRARDi I SOUP.
ranidaughter clips Whiskes and
Jury lays "Good."
Pttsmburghi, Oct. 5.--Belma Baylor was
ccused before a grand jury today of
ssault and battery for cutting off half
fher grandfather's heard. Witnessee
ustinied that the granddaughter objected
Sseeing her grandfather's beard dang
ng In his soup.
After hearing the evidenc, the grand
trors dlmnips the ese and placed the
outs ongthie county.
EEPPELN IN NORTH SEA.
'artly subeaerfed Airship, Guarded
by Veselsi, re Sighae.
Iondon. Oct. i-A dimpatch fre Esb
rg, Denmark. this afternoon reporta
tat fishermen came upon a partly eub
ierged Zeppelin in the jtorth Sea, thirty
ye miles off the Island of Sylt, on. Mon
ay.
It was being guarded by German de
trovers and other vna.gs
|Telegraph Tips
tDetroit, Mlh., Oct. 6.-Frank McDonald
today confessed that he and his brother
wrecked a Michigan Central train at
Bridgeport. Ontario. on the night of May
30, 1911. killing the fireman end engineer
and severely Injuring several others. He
was sent to Canada at once. waiving'ex
tradition.
Buffalo, N. Y., Oct. 6.-Murdered and
rgbbed within a stone's throw of scores
o fellow-workmen In a blast furnace of
the Lackawanna Steel Company. William
Zae's body was wrapped In oil cotton
waste and then set on fire. The flames
were discogered by a watchman.
Cumberland. Md., Oct. .-The body of
John Dineen. 79. a verteran of the civil
war, who lived a hermit's existence in a
hut near Rawling for years. was found
there today. He apparently had been
dead several days.
Boston. Oct. 5-lAlbert J. Roper was this
afternoon found not guilty of the mur
der of his father, a well-to-do Tewkes
bury florist. The jury was out four
hours.
Stockholm, Oct. i.-Boots and shoes in
Petrograd have become so expensive that
the Russian government has put a maxi
mum price of $12 on all footgear. Many
slores have been closed in protest.
London, Oct. 5.-Ten thousand Ger
mans, from Ghent, Belgium, are being
sent to their homes, says a Central
News dispatch from Amsterdam today.
New York, Oct. 6.-Officials of the
Italian Line denied today that there were
munitions on board the steamship MI
lazzo, which has put into port at Fayal,
the Azore, with fire in her hold. The
Milasso, which sailed for Genoa on
September 24. carried 10,O0 tons of steel,
silk and sugar.
Three Rivers, Mich.. Oct. .-FIre early
today wiped out the business section
of Mendon, fifteen miles northeast of
this city, with a loss estimated at $80,000.
New York, Oct. 6.-Twelve "tanks" or
land monitors which the English have
used with success and good results on
the Somme front were anong the cargo
of the White Star Line steamer Baltic
which sailed for Liverpool today. The
Baltic carried 16,00 tons of war sup
plies.
London, Ot. .--The Press Bureau an
nounces that President Runciman. of the
Board of Trade, has satisfactorily ar
ranged with coal owners the question of
supplying coal to Italy.
larribburg. P, , Oct. 5.-Scores of real
dents of Duncannon and surrounding
country are searchinx for three chil
dren of G. D. Peterson. of Ducannon.
who mysteriously disappeared Sunday
night. The children range from 9 to 11
years.
Miliville. N. J.. Oct. .-Deer hunting
season will open next Wednesday. and
the hunters expect a good season. Far
mers east of Millville complain that the
deer are so numerous that they have
ruined much of their produce.
lliamsport. Pa.. Oct. .--Samuel
Michael. a civil war veteran. today cele
brated his Slat birthday anniversary by
moving into a five-room bungalow which
he built by himself this summer.
Charlotte. N. C., Oct. 5.-The American
Cotton Manufacturers' Association will
hold Its annual convention in Washing
ton, beginning May 22 next. This was
decided upon by the association's execu
tive committee here yesterday.
Pittsburgh, Oct. 5.-The Pittsburgh and
Allegheny Telephone Company has grant
ed Its central office operating forces a
wage increase of 45 per cent, according to
an announcement made here. Nearly 250
persons are afected.
Chicago. Oct. S.-Isaac T. Shade, 55
years old, of Harris Station, Ohio, and
Alma Elliott, 52 years old, of Chicago,
were sweethearts thirty years ago. She
heard the call of the city; he remained
on the farm. But she found she loved
him after all. and they were married to
day.
Pittsburgh. Oct. 5.-Mother Mary
Emerentiana. of the Vincentian Sisters
of Charity, an Austro-Hungarian teach
ing order with a large membership in
this country, renounced her allegiance to
Emperor Francis Joseph and applied for
citizenship in the Federal courts here.
It was said that thirty Sisters of the
order would make similar applications
this week.
ChIcago, Oct. .-James V. Nash. a 1915
graduate of the University of Chicago,
instead of waiting until wealthy to re
member his alma mater, has given the
university the first $1,000 he saved, It
was announced today. Nash. a Chi
cagoan, worked his way through col
lege.
Harrisburg, Oct. 5-Compensation has
been allowed to the widow of an em
ploye of the Carnegie Steel Company
killed by lightning while at work in one
of the plants of the company In the
Pittsburgh district. The opinion was filed
today by Chairman Mackey.
Amsterdam (via London). Oct. 5.-The
Frankfurter Zeitung says that an order
has been issued reducing by one-half the
quantity of paper supplied to the Ger
man newspapers.
Buenos Aires, Oct. 6,-The Argentine
Foreign Minister, Senor Don Jose Luis
Marature, and the French Minister, Mr.
Jullemler. have ratified the treaty of
arbitration between France and Argen
tina.
Panama, Oct. 5.-Tn a fight between
American soldiers and citizens one Pan
aman was killed. Three Americans are
under arret for alleged paa-ticipation
in the disorder.
Newton. N. J., Oct. 6.--A bee alight-1
ed on 15-year-old John Patterson
while he was gunning near Sparrow
Push. As he slapped at the bee Pat
terson dropped his gun. The charge
exploded and almost tore off the leg
of Loren Kent, 14. He will die.
Winsted. Conn. ct. 6.--Hearing a
crash In the lower part of her home,
and believing that burglar, had en
tered, Mrs. William Robinson, of Nor
folk, seized a rifle and investigated.
She discovered that a full grown par
tridge had flown through a window
glass. The bird was uninjured.
Berlin (by wireless to Sayville. -L.
, Oct. 5.-A new play, "Chitra." by
SfRabindranath Tagore, British In
dian poet, who wasn awarded the Nobel
Prise for Literature in 1312, was pro
duced at the Munich Theater for the
first time, says the Overseas News
Agency, and was wall received by the
literary critics.
Redueed Fares ter Veters.
Southera Eailwayr. onsute ag=n.,-..
'HOLD UP PAY CAR
Bandits Kill One, Injure Three,
and Escape.
(By the Iateraatiaeml News servise.)
Burlington, N. J.. Oct. 6.-Hundreds of
heavy armed men are tonight scouring
the country-side near here for a dosen
bandits who killed one man and wounded
a woman and two other men in an at
tempted hold-up near Atalon this after
noon.
The dead man was Henry Rider, 4. of
Howell, Mich. His niece, Mrs. Elsie
Smathers, 26. of Hammonton; her father,
A. J. Rider. 70. president of the New
Jersey Cranberry Growers' Association,
and J. M. Rigley. a chauffeur, were the
wounded.
Today was pay-day at Hampton Park.
as Rider's extensive cranberry property
is called. Mrs. Smathers volunteered to
drive her father and uncle to the bogs in
her machine. They carried with them a
bag containing the pay roll, estimated at
between $4,000 and $5,00.
Along a lonely stretch a group of
figures stepped from the underbrush,
strung themselves across the road. and
with drawn guns demanded Mrs. Smath
era to stop the machine.
The bandits fired simultaneously as
Mrs. Smathers sped on.
Henry Rider was instantly killed, a bul
let striking him in the head. His brother
was shot twice in the face, while three
bullets penetrated Mrs. Smathers' limbs.
0. C. FIELD HOSPITAL
ORDERED BACK HOME
Command Expected to Quit Border
When Sanitary Troop Arrives.
San Antonio. Tex.. Oct. 6-The field
hospital of the District National Guard.
which left Washington July 4 for Bisbee.
Art, has been ordered home by Gen.
Funston. In a telegram to Brig. Gen.
H. P. McCain. adjutant general, Gen.
Funston tonight cited certain troops
which e-re to be relieved by troops now
on the way to the border. This move
is in furtherance of the administration
policy of sending all State troops now in
camp to the horder and returning an
equal number of troops which have seen
service there. Although no time is set
for the return, it is thought the men
of the field hospital will leave soon after
the arrival of the sanitary troop of the
District Guard, which left Rosslyn, Va..
Wednesday for Fort Sam Houston. T&
Other troops ordered home are: New
York. First Battalion of Engineers and
Field Hospital, No. I; Massachusetts,
Fifth. Eighth, and Ninth infantry; one
squadron of cavalry, less one troop. and
one signal battalion, less one company;
Connecticut. Second Infantry, two troops
of cavalry. Field Mospital Ambulance
Company: Illinois, one squadron and two
troops of the First Cavalry; Maryland.
brigade headquarters of the Fbist Mary
land, Second Field Hospital, and Com
pany A of the engineers; Missouri, one
signal company: California, Second and
Seventh infantry, brigade headquarters,
the Nogales Signal Company. Ambulance
Company. Field Hospital Company. one
squadron of cavalry: Kansas. Second In
fantry.
RUSS HELD IN CHECK
ALONG ENTIRE FRONT
(By the International News Serviee.)
London, Oct. 5.-While Petrograd claims
successes at numerous points along a
line extending from the district uest of
Lutsk in Volhynia to the Dneister !n
Galicia, a later statement from the Ber
lin war olice asserts that the Czar's
troops have been held in check on the
entire front.
The only place. this statement declares,
where the Russians were able to pene
trate the German trenches was north of
7ubilno. in the Lutsk district, and here
they were subsequently ejected by a
counter attack.
NEW MUNITIONS FOR
GERMANS ON SOMME
(By the Internatlenal News Service.)
London, Oct. 5.-The Germans today de
livered numerous counter-attacks in
strength along a great part of the front
north of the Somme. Their artillery fire
also is becoming heavy. new supplies of
ammunition apparently having been
brought up.
Despite their strenuous efforts, however,
the British and French lines tonight are
unchanged, except for some local ad
vances made by the French in the Mor
val sector.
Here Foch's troops have pressed further
to the eastward, in the region of the
Peronne-Bapaume high road.
CHASING BOOKMAERn.
Chicago Police Have Secret Squad
Out-Widow Asserts Big Loss.
Chicago, Oct. 6.-Who of Chicago's
Police force are today members of the
new secret gambling squad no one knows
except Chief of Police Healy. And sev
eral hundred policemen are trembling in
fear of what the threatened police shake
up may expose. Orders to spare no one
were given yesterday following sensa
tional exposures of a wide-open ring of
racing gamblers operating throughout
the natidn, with headquarters in Chicago,
A wealthy Chicago widow, who will not
reveal her identity, will today, through
her attomney, James E. Callahan. place
$7,000 in canceled checks In the hands
of Federal Judge Landis. She says these
checks represent payments to the racing
gamblers andi that she lost $25,00 more
playing the horses on ."sure tips" from
the nation-wide bookmaking syndicate
now being invedtigated by Federal of
ficers.
SENATOE'S WIDOW KIT.TED.
Either Dives or Palls Into Well at
Woedetock, Va.
winester, vL., Oct. 5.-Mrs. Emma
Below Riddleberger, 71 years old, widow
of United States Senator Harry H. Rid
dle erger, who represented Virginia In
Cdhgress during the Reconstruction
period, ended her life yesterday by jump
ing or falling into a well near the home
of her daughter, Mrs. Mi. M. Magruder,
at Woodstock, Va, She went there ra
cently from Washington broken In health.
She was missing yesterday morning and
searchers found her slippers near the
well, the lid of which had been removed.
Mrs. Riddleberger was found at the
haten eta in a nm.ewn.
STRIKE' NEAR END
New York Milk Distributors
Yield to Farmers.
(By the Internatiemal News service.)
New York, Oct. 5.-With important con
ceasions by both sides, the milk strike,
it was freely predicted tonight, will be
over by sundown tomorrow.
The first break came this afternoon in
the hitherto united ranks of the big milk
distributors. On the verge of the State's
investigation, with its consequent delving
into the finances of the milk trust, the
Borden Company, largest distributors of
milk and cream in the city, announced:
"We accede to the demands of the
farmers for an increase of 45 cents per
hundred weight on milk. But we refuse
to bargain collectively with the Dairy
men's League or Food Commissioner
John J. Dillon. and we refuse to sign con
tracts with the farmers for a longer
period than on: month."
Other companies-aithough outwardly
frothing with anger-announced that they
would be forced to follow the lead of the
Borden Company. which normally
supplies New York with 20 per cent of
its milk.
With this concession by the distribu
tors, city and State officials bent every
effort to bring the Dairymen's Lague
officials to terms.
Their efforts were unsuccessful.
But the prediction wa.s freely made
the farmer would win completely to
morrow.
TRANS-ATLANTC LINER
FRANCONIA OES DOWN
Cunard Vessel. Used as Transport,
Sunk-Twelve of Crew Missing.
(By the Internatiomal News 14ervice.)
London. Oct . -The 18.150-ton trans
Atlantic liner Franconia. of the Cunard
Une, has been sunk, according to a
I-Joyds announcement.
The Franconia had not been in the pas
senger-carry-ng servios recently, being
used for transport duty in the Mediter
rancan.
The dispatch adds that at the time the
vessel was sunk by a German submarine
no troops were on board.
This statement is confirmed by the ad
miralty, which adds that twelve of the
crew of 3ri are unac-ounted for.
The Franconia was built in 1911 and was
on the IOer;.ool-Boston run of the
Cunard Line until after the war began
She was SM feet long. 7t feet on the
beam and of 4A feet depth,
PRESIDENT APPOINTS
8-HOUR PROBE BOARD
(By the Imeseatomal New, Seuwise)
Onaha. Nob., Oct 5-Presiden t Wilson
made formal announcement here tonight
of his appointrments to the commission to
investigate the operation of the Adam.
son 1,11. providing an eight k -.,r
railroad employes. His appd ! are
George W. Goethals. Maj. Gen. T' S
A.. governor of the Panama Canal Zone
and builder of the Panama Canal, chair
man, Republican.
Edgard E. Clark. Interstate Commerce
Commissioner, member of the Commis
sion which settled the anthracite strike,
and six times president of the Order of
Railway 0onductors. Republican.
George Rublee. acting Federal Trade
Commissioner, Progressive Republican.
PENROSE AND PERKINS
"KISS AND MAKE UP"
(By the Intersatemal Newv , erie ,
New York, Oct. 6-Close upen the heeIs
of the "makeshift meeting" h'wr-en
Taft and Roosevelt. there was another
conciliation rendezvous today when Sen
ator Roles Perrose and George W. Per
kins, both smiling, met in the offce of
Republican National Committtee Chair
man Willenx
Fmerging from the latter's office after a
lengthy conference. Senator Penrose said
in answer to questions:
"We are all working for the same
thing this year: The election of Mr
Hughes."
CONVERSE BY WIRELESS
BETWEEN U. S. AND JAPAN
(By the laternational News 5ervie
San Francisco. Oct ' -Wireless <n
munication between the T'nited States
and Japan was established today The
Marconi operator here picked up a
strange call, followed by the salutation,
"Hello, 1'. S. A.." from the Japanese
station near Tokyo. He answered with
a 600-mcter "wave-length" apparatus.
It is understood that a regular com
mercial ser-ice will be established with
in a fortnight.
This feat of wireless breaks the long
distance records, Et miles intervening
between the two points.
FIGHTS FOR HER GOWNS.
Mrs. WIitury Warren Denies Gov
ernment's Right to Metse Them.
New York. Oct. 5-Crim & Wempl.,
attorneys for Mrs. Charlotte A. War
ren. wife of Whitney Warren, architeet.
filed a demurrer in the United States
District Court yesterday to the clvi: ac
tion through which the government Is
endeavoring to confiscate the gowns and
other personal effects brought in hr sirs.
Warren on the French liner Espagne
on November 26, 1915. The government
contends the goods were improperly in
voiced.
Ever admitting that contention for the
sake of argument, Mrs. Warren's lawyers
assert in their demurrer, the government
is still without 1.ower to seize the gowns
as a matter of law,
DROWNS AT ATLAIITIC CIT.
Boys Struggle in Vain to Mceee
Wealthy Pittsbargher.
Atlantic City, N. J., Oct. 6.-Fr'ederick
Davidson, a wealthy Pittsburgher, w'ho,
with his wife and two children, had been
staying at 400 Pacifte avenue, was
drowned off Virginia avemue early this
afternoon..
Tw~so boys made a brave attempt to save
him, but although they did battle their
way to his side in a canoe after some des
perate work in the surf, Davidson was
dead when brought ashore, Efforts of the
police and a physician to revive him
usith a mahmiame wasm amme
BULGARS SCATTER
ROUMANIAN ARMY
Cut Force to Pieces, Losse
Totaling Nearly 15,000.
(my the Isternatiema INw" Bsteefpo
London. OCrt "-R6numanian military
enterprirs have r-.efred another stag
gering blow.
The army which invaded Bulgaria I&A
Sunday, crossing the Danube on ponts
bridges south of Bucharest. at a paint
midway between Rustchuk and AmrtaMG,
has been cut to pieces and enttar& s
cording to Bulgarian reports.
From the information at hand the Bes.
marntian losses are estimated at from 11k
OM to 15.000.
The Roumanians who esaped made
their way back by boats under Bulgariia
9re from the high right bank of the
river, the bridge which carried then te
Dulgarlan soil having been shot to pleasn
by Austrian monitors.
The Bulgarian war ofnee stament sea
tain the following sinister sentenes:
"Our troops today are completing the
destruction of the Roumanlans
According to the Bulgarian flIcial ao
count, the invading fore. rumbering fif.
teen or Fixteen battali s. was unsup
Ported by artlery it occupied six NiU
laKes south of the pDa.nub.
Here, during the brief period of oceo
Iration. atrocities %re -rmmitted, it is
charged, siniliar to those on the retreat
ing~ I'ohrudja.
Ni'tl'her ag or Ir-en-. was respected.
May Nctimn hiad Their eyes cut and
ard their n sashed, says a Bul
garian report
SERBIAN ARMY PUSHES
NEARER TO MINASTIR
Troops Pierce Bulganan First Lue
Defenses at Konali.
(B y the Internetienal News Service.)
London. 0ct 5 --Firhting on its home
soil again after rnrth of expatriation
the heconatituted Serbian army Is re
ported to he r-aking steady progres
toward Monastir
An Exchange Telegraph dispatch
from Saloniki today reports that the
Serbianrs have broken the Bulgarias
first line defenses at Konall. and are
onlv eight role from the chief city
of Southern Serbia.
Offlcially they are reported as cross
ing the Cerna river, near Debrovail
and Brod. and to have occupied the
towns of Buf and Popli
On the east of the Macedonian freat
hard fighting ha. been in progres
for the village of Teniketi. ai the
Seres road, two 1itlle eas m 1 4"e
Strums River. It won sally re.
tured by the British. who had ree
viously been driven out.
Y..R. M. NELSON
STRUCK BY STREET CAR
Confederate Veteran Injured at Calvert
Street and'Lanier Place.
Gen. Richard M. Nelser was knocked
down by a street car at <~a'%et street
and LAnier place norTest. t? eterday
afternoon. Suffering f-om b:ruses about
bth hody and severe cvi on MIe hands
and knen, he Twas remove toI hip home.
'' Ontario road no-TIwest
Traffic on the 0a;its: Tractin- ntes
near the Zoo loop - a, sispentel nearly
half an hoir followirg the a-lie The
General started across the tak and the
motorman on car No -4 was unsble to
Gtop in time to Avoid etrik-ing ',m
At the home of hip da ghter. Ni F '.
Fortune. wITh whorn the Geneal lives,
it was sid :aGt right he was resting
comfortahly
Gen Nenn was born in Grtenhoro.
N sevent-fou- vears aro. and g-rad
'ated4 from Wes PoirT in ! : ITe fought
with Ie in 'West Vigmia and around
Richmond. Later he went in Alahama.
where he enterel the arl:ng hupiness,
hecomring president of The Ttankcr,- Ap
soclation of that State b fo-e he re
tired from husiness
Gen. Nelson has one son r ' ha arnty.
Capt. C. J Neson, now n the Quarter
master a CorpS on b -e- 'v T
daughter with whom h'e Mr * the wife
of CapT. F P NIrt:ne ' Mi noso
!n Santo Doingo. and ,no t -"ciee
Lie:t cmmand-.r Nart 'r S N . as
signed to the Otrdnar.c- "I' T of the
Nivy t 'erartment
SUBMARINE PURSUES
BIG LINER ADRIATIC
4By the internatienal ew serviee.)
New York. Oct - -Thrilling staries of
a chawe by a I'-ht were :-,1 1 1 414
passenge-s who ar-iv-d or 1- White
'tar1 Adrsir, todayN
Fo" a w le hoir n 'he morning of
the first da o it from t werr. while
the big eteam - was of, Th. Iroh coast.
the passengers stooId eadv a' the life
hoate. having beer. warr.ed by four blaste
1--m 1: si-en. The prearranged danger
ignal.
The Adriatic reeled into a new course
almost at a right angle to the one she
had been following Bome of the pan
sengers could see the low, long. dart
craft pursuing the liner.
CASE WON AITEP. DEATK.
Nine Years Speint in Will Latlsmete.
One Primeipel Da).
Williamsport. Pa.. Oct. i.-Lutgag
which ha. extended over nine y-ears, dur
ing which one of the principals ha. did
was ended yesterday by a decision of the
Supreme Court. which upheld a Iee
cout,. directing Chester E. Albright. jre
and William E. Albright. both of Germse..
town, sons of the late CheslerE.Als
bright. to aceount to the executora. e
their father's estate for the business if
the Alight Puree Company. which ther'
claimed to be their own.
The case was originated by the eldec
Albright in equity aga.inst th, two eee
to recover possession of the ,namntur.
Ing plant. Aibright died while the Ii&
tion was pending, after the cmae had pens
to the Supreme Court twice- He cut og
his eons without a cent in his will.
Isarel Raes. * Cents Bood 1s4
Special trains 12:45 and 1 p . wk
dara.. Baltmere and Ohs inmuog,,e
