Mr fair. ,omV Y ^ A ^ ^ ^ . J . ^ ^ /% Xrfl "From IV? fo Wo?
; e gJje Jjkuermtg Putf* Irfd
^ ?# V- ^/ liHt Mir Arenn. TiSMi tatar. SUM.
No. 29,463. WASHINGTON, D. C., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1916?TWENTY PAGES. 9 ONE CENT.
BULGARIANS QUIT j
NEVOLYEN IN FACE j
OF BRITISH DRIVE
Allies Continue Vigorous Aggressive
Efforts on Wings of
Macedonia Front. |
DANUBE'S SOUTH BANK
CLEAR OF RUMANIANS
Wot a Han Lost in Withdrawal,
Says Bucharest, Denying Enemy
Claims of Enormous Losses.
BERLIN, October 0, via London,?
The war office report of today concedes
that successes have been
achieved by the British forces which
crossed the Struma river on the
Macedonian front. The statement
says the Bulgarians have evacuated
remote villages on the east bank of
1 the river.
LONDON, October 6.?While the entente
forces holding the center of
the Macedonian front remain inert,
both flanks continue vigorously on
v the aggressive. Today's reports indicate
& weakening of the Bulgarian resistance
to the British pressure on the eastern end
of the line, beyond the Struma. Here the
Bulgarians have evacuated Nevolyen,
wffich has been occupied by the British,
and are reported on the retreat. Berlin
admits the loss of Yeniken. In the present
operation the British forces have
withstood numerous Bulgarian counter
attacks and the consolidation of all the
ground gained is now reported.
Rumanian forces in Transylvania
have been defeated by the troops of
Gen. von Falkenhayn and driven back
over the Alt river, the German war office
announced today.
At other points along the Transyl
forced to retire, the statement says.
The Austrian and German troops
pressed back the Rumanians over the
Homorod river and drove them from
their positions southwest of Libanfalva,
It is declared.
The Rumanians are retreating through
Geister forest and are being pursued,
the Berlin statement says. Gen. von
Falkenhayn has captured twenty-eight
field guns and thirteen machine guns.
1 Sofia again reports the failure of Russian
and Rumanian attempts to push
back Field Marshal von Mackensen's line
in Dobrudja. The complete clearing of
the southern bank of the Danube of the
Rumanians who recently crossed the river
near Rahovo also is announced.
f Kmiiriiii Low Denied.
The recent crossing of the Danube by <
Rumanian forces constituted a success'
ftfl raid, according to a wirelesi dispatch
from Rome today. The Rumanians,
says this version of the affair,
destroyed Bulgarian depots containing
large quantities of army provisions and
recrossed the Danube without losing a
man.
According to the Bulgarian official
reports the Rumanians were badly cut
up by Bulgarian forces from Rustchuk
and Turtuk&i, which caught the invaders
between two fires and compelled
their disorderly retreat with heavy
losses.
Atrocities Again Charged.
The official statement issued in Sofia
yesterday contained the following report
of Rumanian atrocities in Dobrudja:
''Roumanian troops which crossed the
Danube between Rustchuk and Turtukai
committed atrocities similar to
those as on the retreat in Dobrudja.
* Women, old men and children were assassinated.
Many victims had their
eyes put out and their tongues
slashed."
Rumanian Gain Admitted.
The latest Berlin statement admits
that the Rumanians have gained
ground near Orsova, on the Danube.
In the Dobrudja all efforts of the
Russians and Rumanians to advance
toward Bulgarian positions on the
Karabodza - Sofuliarf- Amzatzla-Pervels
line were frustrated by our counter
attacks, according to the Sofia statejftnent.
Several enemy night attacks
Ifilso failed, it is said. Bucharest rej?orts
heavy fighting in the Dobrudja.
, On the northerly front. In Transylvania.
the Rumanians have won a
jthree-day battle in the region of Parlaid,
the official Bucharest statement
'declares, and after capturing AustroOtrman
fortifications are pursuing
their defeated foe toward the west.
Berlin declares that the Rumanians
ifrho assumed the offensive on Monday
tin the region of Bekokten have rejtreated
behind Sinoa, in the Alt valley,
fend farther north are also retreating.
| After fruitless efforts and losses suffered
in the Hatzeg mountains on both
aides of the Strell-Sstrlgy valley, the
Rumanians are declared to be withdrawing
to the frontier heights.
Italians Advance in Albania.
ROME, via I^ondon. October 6.?The !
Italian official statement reads:
"Albania: On Tuesday our cavalry
ttnits from Argyro Castro advanced to i
Georgu< ateH and Ediskopi in the Drynos !
walley. which they occupied, while other '
cavalry units, moving from Delvino. es- j
* tablish?-d communication with the '
Argyro Castro garrison.
FRENCH LOAN TO BE SUCCESS.
People Wait in Lines to Subscribe.
Finance Officials Are Radiant.
PARIS. October 6.?Reports from
Paris an?! the provinces show that the
second great war loan promises to be
In Paris rain kept many away on
the morning of the opening: day, but
In' the afternoon there were long waiting
lines outside all places where subscriptions
were taken. The banks state
that a large number of persons paid
for their stock in gold. At one window
of the Bank of France alone 500,000
francs in gold were paid over in two
hours.
Officials of the ministry of finance in
charge of the issue are radiant. M.
Vogues states: "I sent provisional certificates
for 3.000,000 francs to a banker
who at the time of the last loan sold
*- i,000.000 worth all told. He just sent
gn urgent request for certificates for
20,000.000 francs. If the scouts of the
army of thrift reached that point it is
Hot hard to judge the results we are
entitled to expect when the lists close."
L l
SEE HOPE OF G. O P.
GROWINGBRIGHTER
Leaders Confident of Victory in i
States With Big Electoral
Votes.
REVIEW OF THE SITUATION I
BY N. O. MESSENGER.
CHICAGO, October 6.?Slowly but ^
steadily and surely the republican
prospects are growing more stable
every day in the important states?
those which hold the commanding figures
in the electoral college?according
to the judgment of republican managers
and leaders. That conviction is
based upon reports received from
actual observations made under the
efficient organization of the republicans
in the several commonwealths.
Beginning with Illinois, and including
Iowa, Michigan, Indiana and, Ohio,
and taking in the electoral vote of
Kansas, Minnesota and California, the
republicans are confident that the west
and central states will march into the
electoral college to join hands with
New York, New Jersey, New England,
Pennsylvania and "West Virginia, pre- |
senting an invincible majority, together
with the northwestern and mountain
states. Even if Wisconsin and Nebraska,
Colorado and Montana, Nevada
and New Mexico, which are considered
close, should go to Wilson, carrying
with them Missouri, Oklahoma, Ken
tucky, Maryland and the solid south, t
the republican ticket would be vie- (
torious.
Where Claims Are Best Founded. t
In other words the republicans find 4
their claims the best founded in the *
states where the electoral vote is 1
largest, and the total of which constitutes
a majority of the electoral col- 1
lege. The democrats are depending 1
upon an undercurrent of popular senti- (
ment, the republicans upon "the "form" <
of the states hitherto dependable. The ]
most gratifying and, to the managers i
the most significant, pointer in the i
campaign is the improvement in actual ]
conditions in Indiana. Four weeks ago
hardly any side line observer would i
have counted Indiana as anything but (
democratic, with the possible exception t
of one republican United States sena- i
torship. Today reports of conditions
in Indiana cause the republicans to be
confident of carrying the state for
Hughes and electing both United
States senators and the state ticket, c
besides gaining several representa- r
tives in Congress.
This change is attributed In part to 1
organization and In part to crystallization I
of the sentiment among business men, t
farmers and manufacturers in favor of .
the republican party, national and state,
over the democratic party, its theories
and administration. The organization in ^
Indiana is said to be efficient to a de- t
gree and comprehensive in detail. It
extends to every precinct and eveiy man- g
ager in the state is "on his toes'* down to a
the last precinct lieutenant. r
t
Ohio Becomes Battle Ground.
s
Ohio from now on will be a battle c
ground. Tne republicans are conndent i
of carrying the electoral vote and win- 1
ning the senatorship. but It Is admitted c
that the Buckeye state Is fighting terrt- i
tory. It is largely a manufacturing state
with a great labor vote, part of which will g
respond to appeals of the labor leaders c
for Wilson. One of'the most important
democratic assets in Ohio is the support
of a string of newspapers, under one management.
having wide circulation In industrial
centers.
It is understood that from now on
the larger part of the staffs of these
publications will be thrown into the
campaign for President Wilson. News
articles and editorials will be bent 8
to arguments for the democratic ticket, t
Basis of Bepublic&n Hope. A
The republican dependency is placed j
upon the normal republican vote, consolidated
through the return of the t
progressives, the farmers, the great
independent "silent" vote which is believed
to be for Hughes and the strong
republican vote in the southern end of *
the state.
No one doubts that President Wilson ^
will receive a tremendous popular vote
in the aggregate, even outside the solid I
south. But the republican claim, based t
upon facts and figures supported by recent
reports'after inquiry and observa- t
tion, is that in the states whose votes ^
are largest in the electoral college *
there appear to-be in sight more re- |
publicans than democrats.
BERLIN AGAIN DECLARES I
"TANKS" ARE A FAILURE \
Destruction of Several British Fight- '
ing Machines on the Somme
Front Is Beported.
BERLIN. October 6. by wireless to
Sayville.?The British armored motor ,
cars, which were used for the first time
in the funeral advance on the Somme '
front last month, are a failure, the Overseas
News Agency says/
"One of the tanks built in Norfolk.
England, became hopelessly entangled
in barbed wire," says the news agency.
"Another tank was disabled by one
shell while advancing at a point north
of Fleurs. The ammunition which it
contained exploded, and it burned up.
Two other tanks were utilized in an attack
at 7 a.m. September 15 on the
Guillernont-Combies road.
"One of them was blown up with a
hand-grenade when it had approached
to within thirty yards of the German
trenches. At the last moment its occupants
dispatched a carrier pigeon
from this modern Noah's ark. Six machine
guns were captured by the Germans.
The other tank crawled to the
southern edge of Leuze wood and was
burned up.
"Only one of these land cruisers succeeded
in crossing destroyed: German
! trenches. This one was annihilated
j by a shell on the road to Ligny-Thilloy.
; The British land fleet will soon be comi
posed of nothing but wrecks."
New Japanese Envoy in Chicago.
! CHICAGO, October 6.?Aimara Sato,
' recently appointed ambassador at
1 Washington from Japan, upon his ari
rival here today found a program for
j his entertainment provided for him
which included an informal reception
and a luncheon. He is en route to
Washington from Seattle, and will
leave Chicago for the capital next Sunday.
Ambassador Sato Is the guest of
S. Kurusu, Japanese cpnsuf. in Chicago.
RAILWAY BEGINS
REMOVING POLES
Ones That Are the Greatest
Menace on Bladensburg Road
Being Shifted.
CITIZENS PREPARE TO ACT
While the Washington Railway and
Electric Company today voluntarily
started removing some of the trolley
poles that are a menace to the heavy
motor travel along the Bladensburg
road and making plans for placing red
lights at dangerous points, an official
>f the Washington Safety First Association
and several citizens' associa:ions
representing the territory near
this thoroughfare prepared to urge
jpon the District Commissioners removal
of the poles from the highway
in the interests of public safety.
This concerted effort has resulted
from the fatal collision on the Bladensburg
road early Tuesday morning in
tvhich William M. Schaffer was killed.
It was especially pointed out today
that there was no light on the pole
struck by the automobile in which Mr.
Schaffer was riding.
Railway Will Request
Conference to Arrange
Disposition of the Poles
Determined to do all within its power
;o minimize the danger of the existence
>f trolley poles In Bladensburg road
ind not wait for an investigation of
V.- aUftnMnti ?r on fmm T~H?trlof
iuthorities, the Washington Railway
ind Electric Company this afternoon
lent an emergency wagon out Bladens-,
jurg road with instructions to remove
poles located at the most dangerous
)oints.
The places which will be given lmmeliate
attention are where the road
crosses the car tracks at the District
line and 28th street, where an autonobile
accident early Tuesday morning
resulted in the death of William
VI. Schaffer.
It is the purpose of the company to arange
a conference with the District
Commissioners at the earliest possible
noment for the purpose of discussing
dans for permanent treatment.
Asks for Emergency Permit.
The company, which has had charge
>f the Bladensburg line only a few
nonths, intends doing all it can to make
ravel along the road as safe as possible,
t applied for an emergency permit .at
he District building today for the work
o be immediately done.
The probability is that two poles
vill have to be removed at the Difrict
line, which is considered by oftclals
of the company .as the most dangerous
point. At' t5ra"9!irtersection. and
it 28th street the company may Install
ed lights as an extra warning to auomobilists
and other users of the road.
One plan under consideration is to
leek permission from the telephone
ompany to use its poles along the curb
ine for eye bolts in order that span
vires may be installed at the dangerjus
points, thereby eliminating some
>f the car line poles that are said to
nenace traffic.
The emergency work is being done
mder the immediate supervision of C.
>. Kimball, engineer of ways of the
;ompany. A conference in regard to
he matter was held this morning beween
Clarence P. King, president; J.
I. Stephens, superintendent of rail?rtM-vm
anrt Mr KimbalL resulting in the
tecision to employ every emergency
neans available.
Thinks Road Sufficiently Lighted.
According to Mr. Kimball, who drove
Llong Bladensburg road last night, the
horoughfare appears to be sufficiently
veil lighted to make accidents unlikely
f reasonable care is exercised by
Irivers. There is a light on every
>ther post, and this, he says, makes all
he illumination that is necessary.
Pole 146, at 28th street, which was
(truck by the car in which Mr. Schaffer
vas driving, is an alternate pole that
las no light.
There is no probability in the immeliate
future, it is stated, of the com>any
applying for permission to double
rack on Bladensburg road, in which
vent the poles could be placed between
he tracks, thereby eliminating all
langer. This line 1b said to be anyhing
but a paying proposition at pres;nt.
According to District officials the line
lid not pay under the former managenent
and they hesitated about ordering
mprovements for the reason that the
reposition of additional financial burlens
might have put an end to the
>peration of the line.
Dangerous Condition of
Highway Claims Attention
of Motorists and Others
Residents of Bladensburg road and
the hundreds of motorists who travel
that thoroughfare are extremely
anxious that an early change be made
in the location of the trolley poles
there in order to reduce the danger of
(continued on rourtn i'age.)
The Star's Base Ball Extras
Will Give Complete Reports
of the World Series Games
The Evening Star will issue
base ball extras, describing
the world series championship
base ball games,
giving details of each play,
with box score, beginning
tomorrow afternoon with the
first contest at Boston.
These extras will be issued
immediately after each game.
While the games are in
progress, every play on the
field will be reproduced almost
simultaneously on the
electric scoreboard of The
Star on the nth street side
of The Star building. The
public is invited to witness
this reproduction of the ,
plays of the game. ,
* ? **
GREEK KING BLOCKS
PLANTOENTERWAR
Cabinet Resignation Due to
Determination to Remain
Neutral, Says Dispatch.
LONDON, October 6.?According to
i?h*na 4l,n?tphAv *Vt a aattllntf rxf tho
latest crisis In Greece will be both
long and laborious, but it will be ended
with the selection of a business
cabinet in compliance with the spirit of
the note of the entente allies of June
21.
The Daily News' Athens correspondent
says that the reply of Arlstide
Briand, the French premier, when he
was sounded regarding the conditions
under which the entente allies would
accept Greece's military adhesion to the
entente, was responsible for the decision
of the Kalageropoulos cabinet
which resulted in its resignation.
"Despite the efforts of the official announcement
to throw the responsibility
for the resignation upon the entente,"
says the correspondent, "the fact remains
that the immediate cause was
the king's unshakable determination
to adhere to neutrality at all costs to
himself and his country. * After
waiting vainly for recognition from
the entente powers M. Kalogeropoulos
decided to sound M. Briand through the
Greek minister at Paris as to the conditions
under which the entente would
accept Greece's entry into the war.
Briand Sets Forth Conditions.
"M. Briand's answer, frank and categorical,
was. in effect, that although the
situation of today had entirely changed?
Greece having forfeited the sympathies
she had enjoyed among the entente, one
of whom, namely, Italy, opposed her adhesion?yet
if the king personally would
offer the unconditional participation of
Greece In the struggle, declare war
against Bulgaria and order a general
mobilization, the allies would reply that
they would accept the proposition and
promise to aid Greece in every way to
r?o rrv An tKa nmc o nH oIca nrntdnt
Greece's interests, provided the new policy
was carried out by a government in
which the allies could place full confidence.
This answer caused a majority
of the cabinet to decide to participate in
the war, which decision the king: refused
to approve."
Venizelos Goes to Mytilene.
A dispatch to Keuter's Telegram Company
from Canea, Island of Crete, says:
"The Greek provisional government,
composed of President Venizelos, Admiral
Coundouriotis and Gen. Panyotis Danglis,
together with their suite, departed Wednesday
aboard the steamer Hesperia, presumably
for Mytilene. The administration
of the island has been organized
with former Minister of Public Instruction
Tsiiimokos as governor."
HOLLWEG AND CRITICS
STILL ARE FAR APART
BERLIN, October 5, via London, October
8.?Efforts to compose the differences
between Chancellor von Bethmann-Hollweg
and his opponents in
the reichstag, which have been in
progress since adjournment was taken
after the chancellor's speeoh, apparently
have accomplished little.
The chancellor's position, however,
appears to be unshaken, and such information
as is obtainable indicates
that the campaign for resumption of
submarine activity on the old basis
has met with no success.
After several days of confidential
conferences of the chancellor and members
of his cabinet with a committee
from the reichstag, discussion of the
submarine issue and other problems of
foreign politics was resumed today
before the ways and means committee,
i breach between the chancellor
Mi foil itlU l| wlda.
"Moonshine" Butter |
In the vernacular that
means adulterated or renovated
butter, and Uncle Sam
has a large force of agents
who trail and arrest butter
moonshiners, sometimes with -j
real dangers and adventures.
Read this interesting article
in The Sunday Star.
LADIF.S IN nilARRFI s
" ABOUT PRESIDENT ^
rr
P
Rebuke One "Liking" Him, But *
Intending to Vote for ^
Hughes. ?!
TIFF EMBARRASSES HIM ?
ol
w
CHICAGO, October 6.?President Wll- n
son paid a brief visit to Chicago today di
en route from Omaha, Neb., to Long
Branch, N. J., where he speaks to a
delegation of independents tomorrow
afternoon. 11
When the President arrived here he
was welcomed by Gov. Dunne of Illi- ?
nois and Senator Walsh, who is in : P'
charge of the western democratic head- di
quarters. They conferred for an hour
on middle western politics.
A large crowd at the station cheered w
as the President and Mrs. Wilson step- P'
ped to the rear platform of the private P'
car. Mr. Wilson shook hands with the ol
crew of the train which brought him
from Omaha. tr
The trails of President Wilson and hi
Vice President Marshall, campaigning tt
in the middle west, crossed in Chicago as
today. m
Misses the Vice President.
The Vice President was the first to q,
reach the city, coming: In from Wisconsin bi
at 9 a.m. President Wilson did not reach
the city until several hours later, his
train from Omaha being due at 11:40 a
a.m. The President's car was attached
to a Pennsylvania train.
Neither president Wilson nor the Vice N
President had a chance for a conference,
as Mr. Marshall left for Iowa before
the President arrived here.
An old-time "home interest" debate be
tween women over pontics was heard by
the President this morning:, when his
tain stopped for a few minutes at Malta r
I1L Most of the women wore sun bonnets.
p<
"I like you. but I'm going to vote for vi
Hughes," said one woman to the Presi- nl
dent. Immediately all of the other
women began a verbal onslaught on her. p
"Aren't you ashamed of yourself?" tu
one woman said. "You know Wilson 1b da
the best man," declared another. "Well,
I'm going to vote for Wilson," said a
third. m
ci
Ladies Embarrass President.
"Ladies! Ladies!" exclaimed the m
President. "It's very embarrassing to
me to be present at this debate." ^
A man present asked to shake hands ch
twice with Mr. Wilson. ^
"My wife used to be a republican, but ca
this year she's going to vote for you," nc
he said.
A crowd was at the station at Clinton,
Iowa, to see the President early this
.morning, but was disappointed because ]
he was still in bed. A brief atop was w
made at West Chicago. * be
The President himself expressed thor- ?'
ough satisfaction over the reception ac- so
corded him in the middle west. The
greetings of the crowds caused him to
smile frequently. fe
During his brief stay here the Presi- bu
dent discussed politics with several cu
western democratic leaders. Secretary ml
Tumulty visited democratic headauar- wl
ters hefe. - . . ti<
y.
\ 1
!
<
c
(
I
1
I
? i
RUSSIANS GAINING
ON GALICIAN FRONT
feutons Obstinately Resist
Near Peniaki?Kaiser Goes
to Eastern Arena.
PETROGRAD, October 6, via London.?
ussian troops have made headway on
le Galician front in their campaign for '
emberg, according to today's war an- '
Duncement, capturing Austro-German J
ositions in the district south of Brzez- ?
ay, southeast of the Galician capital. J
In the direction of Zlochoff (forty 1
files east of Lemberg), in the region of
eniaki, south of Brody. Gukolavce and i
[lynovce, fierce battles are proceeding. 1
he Germans are obstinately resisting '
le Russian offensive by making counter
t tacks. The Russians have taken pris- ?
aer fifteen officers, two surgeons and ;
22 men. .
Desperate attacks by the Russians are <
mtinuing on the Austro-German front 1
'est of Lutsk in Volhynia, the Berlin war (
[fice announced. At the only point at t
hich they reached the Teutonic lines
orth of Zubilno they were subsequently |
riven out, say the Germans.
Kaiser Goes to East Front.
It also is officially announced in Bern
that Emperor William has left for
le eastern front to visit the troops of
en. von Linsingen, against whom the t
rincipal Russian effort is being t
irected. I
The Russian attacks are more violent t
lan any known since the start of the c
ar nrrnrdinc to a Conenhazen dis- b
itch to the Exchange Telegraph Com- e
my. quoting the eastern correspondent x
the Berlin Lokal Anzeiger. t
The dispatch says that near Kary- r
uca and Zubilno Russian infantry
ive attacked German lines for the last v
lirty-slx hours without cessation. This c
usault was on a front of fifty kilo- j
eters and the cannonade continued all <
ierht. (
German officers who participated in s
le battle on the western front are }
joted as saying that the Russian bom- r
irdment was now nearly as violent as j
lat on the Somme. The Russians are o
sing thousands of cannon and in a few '
tys the Russians fired 60,000 shells on
very small front. s
1EXICAN BANDITS CAUSE I
TIGHTENING OF U. S. LINES *
L1
BRO.WNSVILI.E, Tex., October 6.? h
eports that Mexican bandits had ap- ?
jared again in the lower Rio Grande s
illey caused a general tightening last P
gni UIiu luuaj ut me ai mcu ivrucB ^
otecting this section. While no dls;rbance
had been reported early toty.
the unusual precautions were not
laxed and strong guards are being p
aintained along the railroad from this g
ty to Harlingen. f)
A detachment of Oklahoma infantry- p
en was sent out last night from San ' r'
jnito in pursuit of men believed to be ; ?
exican outlaws, but no word had come a>
rly today as to the result of the e:
ase. C1
It was stated at Port Brown today ,
at the reported killing of an Ameri- *J:
n soldier by bandits at Barreca was "
>t true. r<
c<
Hark Weight on Bread. ?
SEW YORK, October 6.?Nearly 300
titers here began today the practice
marking the weight on every loaf
Id. The commissioner of weights
<d measures made a ruling to this ef- t(
ot under authority of a state law, P'
it hitherto has refrained from prose- Y
.ting violators. Hereafter, the com- r<
lasloner announced today, the bakers tc
111 be required to obey the regula- In
ma. m
SOUTHPAWS LIKELY
TO PITGHOPENER
Marquard May Oppose Leonard
in First World Series
Game Tomorrow.
RECORD CROWD EXPECTED
BY J. ED GBHJLO.
BOSTON, October 6.?The Brooklyn
Dodgers will not arrive here until late
this afternoon, but, being familiar with
ivery angle of Braves* Field, they
do not And it necessary to practice
ihere, as the Red Sox have done. Carrigan
had his men out there again this
morning, through a sharp course of
practice, consisting principally of batting.
The opening game tomorrow afternoon
will in all probability be a battle
pf southpaws, Leonard being slated to
pitch for the Red Sox, while Rube Marduard
is Robinson's selection. Marpuard
is confident he can dispose of the
Red Sox sluggers.
"I am a better pitcher now than I
was when I was with the New York
3lub, because Manager Robinson allows
me to use my own judgment in pitching
to the batters, while McGraw gave
every sign to me during the years I
was under him/' was the statement
made by Marquard in New York yesterday.
Has Made Big Difference.
"It has made a big difference in my
pitching," he added, "and I work better
;han I ever did. I can shake my head
iqw when I de not agree with the
latcher's selection of a certain kind of
t ball to hand a certain hitter, and as
l result I am more effective than ever
before. I never was allowed to shake
ny head or change the signal when I
vas with the Giants, for McGraw did
ill the directing."
John Coombs, who scored a shut-out
>ver the Giants in the opening game of
'he final series in Brooklyn, does not
)oast of his pitching prowess.
"I haven't a whole lot of stuff any
more," admitted the veteran twirler,
"fcut I still know the tricks of the game
arid how to pitch to the various batters.
I hope to win a game for us, but
I will not likely be used until the
fourth or fifth game of the series. I am
certain that Marquard will give the
Red Sox a hard game in the opener
Saturday, and I look for Pfeffer to
show to good advantage in his game. I
believe that Cheney also will be pitched
before 1 will be sent to the mound, but
I am hopeful of success against the
Carrigan team, though I am not underestimating
its batting strength."
There is hardly any chance of Jack
Barry getting into the series. The great
second baseman's hand still is too sore
to allow him to take any chances with
it. Furthermore, it would nM be at gil
surprising if Carrigan failed to m
George Foster on the mound daring: the
series, for the reason that his arm still
is lame, and it would be dangecowPto
take a chance of pitching htm against
the Dodgers, a team which those who
are familiar with the Hobinson aggregation
insist will give the Red Soz a
hard fight.
Weather Conditions Ideal.
Weather conditions here are ideal,
rhe predictions for tomorrow are
'clear and a trifle cooler." It is really
warm here today. It is believed that
ill attendance records in the history
Df world series will be broken here
ind in Brooklyn this year, for there is
i lot of interest in the series, which is
expected to be hard-fought all the way.
The national commission and its umpires
will get together here this afternoon.
" The umpires and Chairman Herrmann
of the commission arrived here
iarly this morning, but President Tener
md President Bah Johnson will not
irrive from New York until 3 o'clock,
?nd will at once go Into session. It is
the intention to caution the umpires
i gainst allowing the players to Iniulge
in any arguments which are not
sased on the construction of a rule.
Objecting to decisions will not be
3tood for, and this is to be made plain
:o the players of both teams.
Attendance Mark of 42,300
Likely to Be Broken at First
Contest for Title in Boston
BOSTON, October 6.?Activities atendant
upon the opening tomorrow of
he world series multiplied today. The
ted Sox players at Braves' Field, for fur;her
and sharper practice, took part in a
onference, which Manager Carrlgan
tad ordered last night. It was called
arly for the purpose, apparently, of
corking out signals and strategy to be
ested in a practice game this afterloon.
The attendance at the first game
rill be the largest in the history
>f base ball, according to President J.
'. Lannin of the Boston Americans,
tfter working through the night again
o facilitate distribution of reservedleat
tickets. Lannin said the interest
n the series this year, as indicated in
riany ways, was greater by far than
ast year, wnen a record crowd of 42.- :
00 saw the first same played in this 1
Ity.
The height of this interest was J
hown by early morning crowds at '
^enway Park, small in number, but *
aper to obtain preference in the purhase
of grandstand s^ats. The new s
vstem. by which successful applicants '
rere forced to fall in with a policy of ]
first come first served" at the ticket '
ines, instead of having certain tickets 1
eld to their order, caused some con- *
usion yesterday and was responsible '
or the early lines today. Prospective
peculators were under surveillance of
olice officers and plain-clothes men.
.'ho had orders to arrest any persons
rading in tickets. *
Bush Line Sale Tomorrow. c
The time for exercising purchase c
rlvileges on reservations expires at *
o'clock tonight, after which uncalled- 1
3r tickets will be put together and <2
repared for a rush-line sale tomor- t
bw morning. This will be the only a
pportunity for persons not successful t
pplicants by mail to obtain such seats
>ccept by private transactions at in- l:
reased prices. a
As far as could be learned today, jIsposition
of tickets for the games ^
ere has as yet developed no incident i;
squiring the attention of the national v
>mmission. Members of this board
rranged a meeting here late today, at ^
hich plans for the series as already \
,ade were to be approved. t
? i:
Chicago Shivers With Cold.
CHICAGO, October 6.?Chicagoans
.day shivered in a drop of the temsrature
overnight of thirty degreea. a
eaterday. the hottest October day on j,
.cord here, the thermometer climbed ,
1 87 degrees. At 7 o'clock this mornig
the official temperature warn SI de- a
ree?. _ ...... . ... .'
I
BANDITS KILL ONE
AND WOUND THREE
Desperadoes Attempt to Rob
Party of $5,000 Intended
for Cranberry Pickers.
SIX SUSPECTS ARRESTED
PHILADELPHIA- October ft?A h?n?!
of foreigners shot and killed Henry
Rider of Howell, Mich., and wounded
Mrs. Elsie Smathers, James Rigby and
A. J. Rider of Hammonton, N. J., yesterday,.
In an attempt to rob the party
of $5,000, representing the pay roll
for chanberry pickers employed by A.
J. Rider.
The party was approaching Atsion,
a small hamlet near Hammonton, In A.
J. Rider's automobile, when the attack
was made. Mrs. Smathers, a daughter
of Rider, and a widow of three weeks,
was driving the car when the bandits,
about a dozen in number, stepped into
the road and, with leveled revolvers,
commanded her to halt. Instead, she
put on full speed and the highwaymen
fired their fatal volley. Her father returned
the flre until he was wounded,
and then turned the revolver over to
Rigby, a mechanic.
Despite the fact that she was shot
twice in the back and once in the knee,
Mrs. Smathers kept the car going at
top speed gnd succeeded in escaping
the pursuing bandits.
Six Persons Arrested.
Four persons have been arrested in
this city and two in Camden, N. J., and
the police dragnet is closing about four
others, who are now under surveillance
in connection with the sensational holdup.
The authorities here today declared
their belief that Millie de Marco
nineteen years old, of this city, one of
the prisoners and the employe of A.
J. Rider, president of the New Jersey
Cranberry Growers* Association, engineered
the entire plot. The De Marco
girl and three Italians were arrested in
this city late last night and were traced
to the Italian colony here through the
license number on an automobile, in
which eleven men and one woman were
seen in the vicinity of the home of the
Riders yesterday shortly before the
murder of Henry Rider of Howell,
Mich., and the shooting of his brother
and two others. Rider and his daughter,
Mrs. Elsie Smathers. and James N.
Rlgby are in the Jefferson Hospital,
this city. Their condition today was
hopeful and physicians said they would
recover.
None of the men under arrest was in
Rider's employ, as far as the police
were able to learn by a hurried investigation.
Had Attracted Attention.
The eight of eleven men and a lone
girl in an automobile aroused unusual
tatereat among the natives of Atsion.
Some one casually noted-that the automobile
bore a Pennsylvania license
number. Detectives learned the nuifcber
of the car and the description of
the girl, which corresponded with that
of the young woman Rider employed on
his cranberry bogs.
The girl knew the movements of Mr,
Rider on pay days and was aware of
the large amount of money required
for the pay roll of about 300 man and
woman cranberry pickers. The police
are working on the theory that she
pl&nned the shooting with the aid of
confederates from this city.
Girl Makes Admissions.
Subjected to the third degree at detective
headquarters for hours, Millie de
Marco made damaging admissions at
noon today, according to Capt. Tate
of the detective buTeau. The girl admitted
that she and three man companions
had motored from this city and
were at Atsion, N. J., at the time of the
shooting. She admitted she had heard
several shots after the chauffeur of the
automobile had stopped his car not far
from the spot where a number of men,
said to have been masked, held up
Rider's car in an attempt to steal the
pay roll being taken to the 300 employes \
at Rider's cranberry bogs.
Guiseppo Russo, an Intimate friend of
the de Marco girl, the police say; Frank
Vessela, the chauffeur, and Frank Ladona,
the three other prisoners, held
here in connection with the crime, were
similarly grilled today and admitted ,
they had taken an early morning ride
from this city to Hammonton. They
also admitted they had been at the spot
indicated by the de Marco girl.
Two Have Police Records.
The girl and Ladona both have police
records, Capt. Tate said today. Two
other strange Italians from this city
were in the automobile, it developed
today.
The circumstances of the tracing and
capture in this city read like Action.
Following the hold-up the bandits disappeared
into the woods, where they
are said to have hidden their automobile.
Fate decreed that one of the
license tags should drop from the car
as they fled. This was recovered by a
citizen and turned over to detectives
who arrived on the scene from Mount
Holly, N. J.
The discovery by detectives today of
imprints of a woman's shoe in the
earth near the edge of the woods close
to the isolated spot where the bandit
attack was made corroborated the
ie Marco girl's story of her presence
In Atsion with the other prisoners.
Vasselle told the police he simply
ICiea in me v*. vnaui^ui -???..
the party hired his automobile. On
leaving Atsion, he said, Russo offered
tiim $10 to speed to Trenton, N. J. He
refused, he said, saying he was short
>f gasoline. The party then drove to
this city.
Other Suspects Talk.
All have admitted, the police say, that
;hey were at Atsion yesterday. Mrs.
Smathers, who is only twenty-six years
>ld, was a heroine today in the eyes
>f the police and hospital physicians
lere. She forgot her pain to speak
ightly of her courageous action in
lriving the automobile away from the
>andlts as they fired shot after shot in
i vain effort to get the bag containing
he $6,000.
"She's the gamest patient we've had
n years," was an admiring comment of
k physician. Mrs. Smathers smiled and
jeld her hand up deprecatingly, as if
ler heroism in saving the money and
Ives, although she was twice wounded,
^as nothing unusual.
Notwithstanding her weakened conlition,
she drove her father's big tourn?
car at a racing clip for more than
en miles, from the scene of the shoot ng
to Hammonton, where her father's
state is one of the show places.
Suspects Caught in Camden.
Two Italian suspects were arrested
t the Pennsylvania railroad terminal
n Camden, N. J., early today as they
tepped from & train they had boarded
,t Hammonton. They were shadowed ,
y detectives during the ride to Cam
