Official
Newspaper of
Olympia
VOL. LVI. NO. 29.
CHS REDUCE W COUfflf TAXES
Cut Levy 1.78 Mills for Next Year, in Spite of Reduced Valuations,
Making Total Reduction of $96,000 in Two Years—Amount to Be
Raised Next Year $190,000, Amount Paid in 1915 $286,000.
Reduction of 1.78 mills in the eounty tax levy for this year for
taxes to be paid in 1917, or approximately $50,000 in actual money
to be paid, was made by the county commissioners when they finally
adopted the county budget Wednesday.
This follows a reduction of approximately $46,000 in the
amount paid in taxes this year, the first rate fixed by the present
board, meaning a total reduction of $96,000 in taxes during the two
years in which the present commissioners have been in office. These
reductions are made in spite of a reduction of more than three
quarters of a million dollars in assessed property valuations in the
county.
The total of the new county levy is 10.22 mills, compared with 12
mills for the current year, a reduction of 1.78 mills, meaning that the
taxpayers of Thurston county will pay in taxes in 1917 when the
state levy of 7.7 mills is included only $190,000, in general figures,
compared to $240,000 raised by taxation this year.
Last year, on the levy fixed by the preceding board of commis
sioners, the total paid was $286,000 in round numbers, though a part
of this was due to a high state levy. The county levy for that year,
1915, fixed in the fall of 1914 by Commissioners Rowe, Mcßratney
and Gibson, was 11.71 mills, or l x fa mills more than the rate levied
by the present board for 1917.
Road and Bridge Fund Lees.
The chief cut made by the board
this year is of one mill in the general
road and bridge levy, though the
road district levies are the same for
1917 as for this year, 5 mills.
The cut in the general road levy in
a reduction of a half a mill« more
than first proposed in the tentative
budget adopted at the first meeting
in September, the levy for this year
being 3% mills and for next year
2%. Tho remainder of the cut of
78|100 of a mill is the result of mis
cellaneous reductions in various de
partments, no one of which stands
out as a big item in itself.
Payment of a large sum of delin
quent taxes by the Weyerhaueser
Timber company last summer, enabl
ing the county to pay off all its in
debtedness and to finish this year
with a substantial cash balance, is
a big factor in making it possible for
the commissioners to 1 reduce the
amount of money to be paid in
for in 1817. This cash balance and
the receipts of the various depart
ments for next year will amount to
approximately $37,000, it is estimat
ed, reducing the amount to be raised
for the current expenses of the coun
ty next year from $88,609 te $51,-
509.
Distribution of Levy.
The county levy is distributed as
follows: current expense, 3.71 mills;
soldiers' and sailors' relief 3 J 10 0;
general road and bridge, 2.50; gen
eral county school, 3.98. To this
must be added the state levy of 7.7,
making a total general levy appli
cable to every taxpayer in the coun
ty of 17.92 mills. In those portions
of the county outside Olympia, tax
payers will be called on to pay in
addition to this 17.92 mills, a road
dlßtrlct levy of 5 mills and the school
levy for their rqppective districts,
which is fixed by the directors of
those districts and will run any
where from nothing at all to 10
mills.
The Olympia taxpayer must add
to the 17.92 state and county levy,
the city levy of 20.5 mills, 4nd the
special school levy of 10 mills, both
of which are the same as this year.
On this basis the Olympia taxpayer
will pay 48.42 mills in taxes in
1917. For the current year the total
is 49.72 mills.
Word has been received in Olym
pia of the marriage at the Bushwick
Avenue Congregational church in
Brooklyn, N. Y., September 27, of
Helen Evelyn, daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Martin Gebhardt of that city,
and Richard Stevens Eskridge, a
lawyer formerly of Seattle The cer
emony was performed by the Rev.
James Lewis Clark, the bride's sis
ter, Miss Anna Gebhardt, being ma
tron of honor, and Edwin St. John
Griffith, who is associated with Archi
tect Sanger of New York, best man.
The groom is a son of the late Colonel
Richard I. Eskridge. TJ. S. A., a
grandson of the late Major General
Isaac Ingalls Stevens, first governor
of this territory, and a nephew of
General Hazard Stevens of this city,
and has been visiting his uncle and
aunt. Mr. and Mrs. Harvey Simpson
Bates of New York. The young
couple wll make their home for the
present in Akron. Ohio, where Mr.
Eskridge has important business in
terests.
Washington Staniiari)
ESTABLISHED NOV. 17, 1860
CITY CAMPAIGN IS
GETTING UNDER WAY
TALCOTT HEADS CITIZENS' TICK
ET, MOTTMAN OUT MILLS
REPUBLICAN CANDIDATE.
Saturday is the last day candidates
may file for the different city offices
in the city election in December, and,
a Citizens' ticket, complete except as
to treasurer, and a Republican tick
et complete except as to city clerk,
are now in the ■ field. The pri
mary ta to be held the same day as
the general state election, November
7, and the final city election will ba
held December 6.
Mayor Mottman will not be a can
didate to succeed himself this year,
George N. Talcott, present council
man-at-large, leading the Citizens'
ticket as the candidate for mayor.
The other candidates are: City at
torney, R. S. Sturdevant of the law
fjrm % of Troy & Sturdevant; clf.v
clerk, W. A. Hoage, who has served
in that capacity for the past two
years; councilman-at-large, J. G.
Bolster; councilman Second ward, I.
H. Rudolph; Fourth ward, Claude
Chambers, and Sixth ward, W. W
Work. *
The Republican ticket is headed
by Jesse T. Mills as the "mayoralty
candidate, with George R. Bigelow,
who has run heretofore on the Cit
izens' ticket, as the candidate for
city attorney knd Joe Forstell, also
a Citizens' ticket candidate in for
mer years, for councilman from
the Second ward. Mrs. Lona Smith is
a candidate to succeed herself as
treasurer, on the Republican ticket,
and the other aspirants under this
banner are: Councilman-at-large.
Charles McCleary; councilman
Fourth ward, C. F. Norrie, and Sixth
ward, Clinton Knox.
With the exception of Mr. Hoage,
who filed Monday, all of the candi
dates on the Citizens' ticket made
their fllingß last Saturday. Tim
ticket as constituted is said to have
the personal support of Mayor Mott
man, who is retiring this year after
having won the mayoralty in four
hotly fought campaigns.
Several changes are to be noted In
the ticket. F. A. Yauger, who has
served as councilman from the Sixth
ward for the last four years, is not a
candidate for re-election, nor is Coun
cilman McClintic of the Fourth,
while Rudolph is running in the
place of Councilman Forstell of the
Second.
The Mayoralty Candidates.
Mr. Talcott, the Citizens' candidate
for mayor, is one of the best knowu
business men of the city, a pioneer
of Olympia and with his brothers
conducts the oldest jewelry store in
the state. Mr. Mills, the Republican
candidate, is also a well known resi
dent of the city, now engaged in the
undertaking business, and a man who
has many friends. The race between
these two men is expected to be an
exciting one.
Under the new election law apply
ing to cities of the third class, Olym-
TRY OLYMPIA MERCHANTS FIRST
Mills Huns For Mayor.
HEW TO THE LINE; LET THE CHIPS PALL WHERE THEY MAY.
OLYMPIA, WASHINGTON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1916
SKELETON OF MURDERED
MAN FOUND AT RAINIER
Remains Discovered in Woods by
Hunter—No Clues to Identify
Are Found.
Evidence of a murder was discov
ered this week by Frank Dusing of
R&inier, who found a human skeleton
near that town, while hunting. The
coat showed that the man had been
shot in the back. He is believed to
have been a Seattle man who disap
peared in that part of the county sev
eral years ago. The remains were
brought to this city by Coroner Mills.
Scraps of clothing left showed that
the unknown had worn a blue serge
suit and black slouch hat. He was
about six feet tall and had reddish
brown hair. The body had apparently
been dragged into the brush and hid
den.
In the clothing were found a gold
watch, |4.80 in change, and other
articles, indicating to the authorities
that an attempted robbery was not
the cause of the man's death.
The city council at a special meet
ing Thursday night approved plans
for the Installation of 25 fire
hylrants In the central portion of the
city, and ordered the purchase of 19
lmmedlatey, at a cots of $27 eaca
The work of placing, them will start
r.oxt week.
SEEKS AFFIDAVITS HERE
TO SAVE SON FROM WAR
Olympia-Born Young Man Conscript
ed for British Army In
Canada.
In an effort to save her son from
conscription in British Columbia, for
service in the British army in Europe,
Mrs. Williß White, now of Spokane, 1s
(seeking affidavits here that John
White was born in Olympia.
Mrs. Lavina Hartsuck has made
affidavit that she was at the home
when the child was born in 1896, but
there is no official record, as vital sta
tistics were not kept here at that
time. The search for proof is being
made by C. B. White, brother of the
drafted boy's father.
The White family moved to Spo
kane soon after John's birth, where
he grew to manhood, and recently
went to work at Traii, B. C. There he
fell under the conscription act, and
every effort so far to release him has
fulled. If the Olympia evidence is
not sufficient, appeal will be taken to
the state department at Washington,
D. C.
Purchase Tenino Garage.
A business deal of considerable im
portance was announced Saturday
wherein the B. & M. garage In Tenino
is purchased by St. John & Titus,
Ford agents at Olympia, Tenino and
Centralia. The consideration was
not announced, but is understood to
have been considerable. Rufus
Brunton, an employe of the firm's
Centralia garage, will manage the
Tenino branch.
Hillman Is Paying Up.
C. D. Hlllman, the well-known real
estate promoter, has paid the county
$629.99 delinquent taxes oiKproperty
that was to have been sold this week,
regaining his title and has had a rep
resentative here for several days,
checking up on his property. He still
owes about $6,000 in taxes, and It is
expected he will pay this sunt and re
deem all his property, most of which
is located at Boston Harbor.
The Washington National Guard,
which has been encamped at Ameri
can lake since It returned from the
border the fore part of last'month, Is
to be mustered out of the federal
•service Sunday, and quite a number
of Olympians plan to witness the
ceremony.
Mrs. Frederick W. Schmidt enter
tained a number of young folks
Tuesday afternoon at a party cele
brating the fourth birthday of her
little daughter Eleanor.
pia will elect its mayor, clerk, attor
ney, treasurer and councilman-at
larpte for a two-year term, and eacn
of the ward councilmen for a four
year term.
COURT CONFIRMS ADVICE
YANTIS GAVE TO KIRRE
Rules That Bootlegging Complaint
Was Improperly Drawn—Boys
Are Freed.
Confirming the advice given by
Prosecuting Attorney Geo. P. Yantis
to Attorney P. C. Kibbe of Tenino
following the boys' first trial, Supe
rior Judge Wright Thursday dis
missed the charge of bootlegging
against Goldie Smith and E. Mell and
ruled that the verdict convicting them
at their last trial at Rochester was
Illegal, because the complaint under
which they were tried, prepared by
Kibbe, was improperly* drawn, having
been signed by Kibbe as notary in
stead of by a justice of the peace.
Prosecuting Attorney Yantis bad
nothing to do with the preparation of
the case, being called into it by Kibbe
after the first trial had started at
Bucoda. At the close of it, which
ended in a disagreement, Yantis ad
vised Kibbe to prepare a new com
plaint, but the Tenino official declined
to do so because he would have had
to pay the costs already piled up. The
charge against the boys being aa
alleged violation of a Tenino ordi
nance and not a county case, Yantis
did not interfere any further, but at
Kibbe's request attended the other
trials, which resulted in the convic
tion of Mell and Smith at Rochester
last Saturday.
The boys are now at liberty, under
Judge Wright's ruling.
ROOT OF ALFRED MODES
FOOND AT DUTLER'S COVE
Discovery Confirms Suicide Theory-
Had Been Missing Since Last
Saturday.
The body of Alfred Modes, 28 year*
old, who disappeared suddenly last
Saturday afternoon from the home at
Butler's Cove, was found at 11:30
Friday morning in the brush about
half a mile behind the old Graves'
place by a dog owned by Robert Tay
lor, the same dog which 18 months
ago found the body of Fred Weias
along "the trail between Gate and
Bordeaux. The discovery confirmed
the fears previousy held by Modes'
friends that he had committed sui
cide.
In the party at the time were Dep
uty Sheriff Gifford. H. W. Myers and
Messrs. Taylor, Whitney, Erickson.
Johnston and Allen. An empty re
volver box had been found by a man
named Dorsey Thursday afternoon
and Modes' body was found about 200
yards distant. He was lying on hi 3
back, with a bullet hole through his
temple. The revolver lay by his side.
Coroner Mills was notified and made
an investigation, while Mr. Myers no
tified the relatives in Seattle.
Searching parties under the di
rection of Mr. Myers and local au
thorities made several efforts to find
some trace of Modes early in the
week, but developed no clues, except
that he purchased a revolver from a
local store one day last week. The
young man is reported to have been
in a despondent mood for some time
past.
Modes came to this country less
than a year ago from Bridgeport,
Conn., where he had been raised, and
invested a considerable portion of
his savings, apout S6OO, in the prop
erty at Butler's Cove, near the
schoolhouse, where his mother lived
l with him. He is said to have felt
recently that his investment had
been a losing one. He spent Satur
day afternoon chopping wood and
when his mother went for the mail
about 3:30 he waved goodby to her.
When she returned 15 minutes
later he was gone.
John Dunbar was chosen president
and A. C. Baker secretary-treasurer
of the City Bowling league, organ
ized by 40 bowlers of the city at a
meeting Tuesday evening. The mem
bership of each team and the season's
schedule will be arranged at a meet
ing tonight.
Certain local physicians issued 76
prescriptions for "booze," calling for
a total of 67 quarts of whisky an.l
159 bottles of beer, during the week
er.ded September 30, according to in
formation gathered by Chief of Police
A. S. Caton.
PRICE FIVE CENTS
snm WQRKON GUY'S NEWSHIPBOILOING FUNT
Three Ships Representing Total Market Value of $750,000 to Be
Built Here During Next Ten Months—Keel of First to Be Laid
in Three Weeks, Others at Intervals of Two Months.
Actual work driving the piles for the tirst of the three slips to
he erected for shipbuilding by Olympia's big new industry, the
Olympia Shipbuilding company, was started Friday with two pile
drivers operated by Contractors Swayne and Percival. It is esti
mated that the work will progress rapidly enough to permit laying
the keel of the first boat to be built here the latter part of this
month.
As quickly as the first slip is completed, work will be started on
the second in which two months later it is planned to begin the con
struction of the second ship, and then the third, the company plan
ning to have three ships under construction in the local yards inside
of six months and to launch them at intervals of two months.
Each of the ships of the type to be built here will represent a
market value of approximately $250,000, so that inside of the next
10 months the company expects to build and launch ships of the
value of $750,000 in round numbers. The biggest portion of this
sum will be spent in Olympia for labor and material, the plant's pay
roll, it is estimated, being in the neighborhood of SSOO to S6OO a day.
Organization of the company followed several months' negotia
tions by President P. M. Troy and other members of the Chamber of
Commerce, and was announced the last of last week, creating quite
a stir in local circles.
HMOS CAMPAIGN
FOB MUSAKS
CANDIDATES PROPOSE TO MAKE
THINGS HUM ARRANGE
NUMEROUS MEETINGS.
Plans for a vigorous campaign of
the county, Independent of state or
national issues and confined entire
ly to local affairs, and designed to
reach every Important community in
the cotonty berore November 7, have
been made at a series of meetings ol
the candidates nominated on the
Non-Partisan ticket and those Joining
in promoting that movement, and ar
rangements for 25 or 30 meetings
are now under way.
The Non-Partisan candidates,
working under a general Non-Parti
san committee and a special commit
tee of their own number, propose to
make things hum from the date of
their initial meeting. The nominees
are:
Representative, 28th district, A.
S. Gaton.
Auditor, Margaret Shaw.
Treasurer, W. J. Abbott.
Sheriff, T. M. McVey.
Prosecuting Attorney, Geo. F. Yan-
County Superintendent, G.
Conn.
Engineer, C. P. Hicks.
Assessor, J. W. Peters.
Commissioner, First district, B. F
Littlejohn.
Coroner, D. O. Nugent.
Justice of the Peace, Olympia, Geo
H. Uhler.
Constable, W. D. Manler.
There are no candidates on the
ticket for state senator, for represen
tative opposing C. C. Aspinwall, who
was nominated on the Republican,
Democratic and Non-Partisan tick
ets, for commissioner in the Second
District, opposing S. Y. Bennett, or
for county clerk, for which F. H.
Sylvester was nominated on the So-
cialist and Non-Partisan tcketis.
Whether these vacancies will be fill
ed will be determined at a meeting
of the Non-Partisan committee, but
the chances are that the places will
be left vacant. Sylvester will run on
the Socialist ticket.
W. J. Abbott, the Non-Partisan
candidate for treasurer, is one of the
best known farmers of the county.
He decided to make the race for
this office when B. R. McClelland,
who was nominated at the primaries,
announced that he would withdraw.
Local Hooslers Form Club.
Olympia and Thurston county
Hooslers, who formed a temporary
organization at a meeting at the
Chamber of Commerce last Friday
night, will celebrate the birthday an
niversary of the late James Whitcomb
Riley, Saturday, when a special pro
gram will be provided. About 30
former residents of Indiana Joined in
the preliminary organization of the
local club, electing J. Grant Hinkle
temporary chairman and G. A. Gar
rett secretary. It is estimated that
there are 150 former Indianians in
this vicinity.
WHOLE NUMBER 2928
Organiser* of Compuy.
The new corporation is capitalised
at $50,000 and the officers are as fol
lows: President, E. R. Ward, Seat
tle; vice president, J. L. Peters, Olym
pia; treasurer, C. J. Lord, Olympta.
The trustees are C. J. Lord, Henry
Mallory and J. L. Peters of this city
and E." R. Ward and Wallace W.
West of Seattle. The incorporators
included these persona and P., M.
Troy, Allen White, B. F. Hume and
James Martin.
President Ward said that the ship
yards were located at Olympta be
cause of the fact that the surround
ing country affords the finest ship
lumber to be found on Puget Sound.
The work of putting up the plant,
which will cove/ five blocks of water
front located at the north end el-
Main street just below the Standard
i Oil plant, is now under way. The
keel for the first vessel is to be laid
in two weeks and the plant will give
employment at the outset to 20i«
men. This number, it Is expectod,
will be increased to 400 or 500
witbin a short time. The skttlnd
workmen have already been engaged,
while the others will be obtained la
this vicinity.
Mr. Ward announces that the four
vessels already contracted for will be
the largest single deck wooden ves
sels ever constructed on Pug6t Sound
and are to be built under the bureau
of Veritas and Lloyd's classification.
They will be flve-masted top rigged
schooners, equipped with semi-Diesel
engines of 700-horse power and will
carry a lumber cargo of 2,225,00 ft
feet. The craft will each be 290 feet
over all with 265-foot keel, a 48-fo< t
beam and molded depth of 27 feet.
They will draw 26 feet when loaded.
•>Each will cost in the neighborhood of
1250,000..
It is estimated that It will require
something more than 1,500,000 feet
of timber for each of the vessels and
the material will be secured from
the lumber mills and logging camps
adjacent to Olympla.
Means Industrial Progress.
When the organisation of the com
pany was announced, President Troy
issued the following statement:
"The Chamber of Commerce has
been working on this proposition for
some three or four months and I am
naturally gratified very much at the
accomplishment of that which we
have worked so earnestly for. At a
number of times it has seemed with
in our grasp, only to slip away, but
it is here and the result will soon be
seen.
"The securing of this shipbuilding
plant in Olympia, with its consequent
employment of a large number of
men and the large addition to the in
dustrial life of the city, is bound to
have a very beneficial effect, and 1
predict that the era of revival has
now truly set in for us. I anticipate
and look for the inauguration of a
number of other substantial move
ments that have for their objects ad
ditions to the industrial life and wel
fare of the city in the very near
'future.
"It is within the power of Olympia
to build herself. Indeed it is the
only way she will be built into a city,
for no one else will build her.
"It Is up to us to keep the proces
sion moving, and let us see to it that
we do."
Published
Continuously
For 55 Years
