EPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAB
10 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, FRIDAY MORNING, OCTOBER G, 1916
10 PAGES
VOL. XXVII., NO. 1 10.
H
THE
ARIZONA
KEF
OS
THERE IS NEVER II HE
ran KIS EASIER
5
I EEIHU ROOT LRST MIGHT
Republic. A. P. Leased Wire practically no competition for Europe
NI-.W YltK, ct. !. Denunciation docs not make the goods to soli here.
. f Ihc foreign policies ami the tariff "When tlie war is over that condi
:iel national defense measures of the'timi will cease and we shall deserve
..in,., -rat ie administration and a plea.wnat happen;; to us if we do not prn
lor an awakening of the ' spirit thai j ide a tarilf quite different from the
Ion ei oar laih.is m their poverty i I ach rwood tarm.
and struggles." marked a political
sp
nerie
I art:
"V
lo.pt
e erv
. . pi'
"ince
h
ill
l.a
tiwicd here tonight
II hv 1 llilm Root. He
lit C
said
has
aie told that Mr. Wilson
lie country out of war. So has
president for seventy years. x-
I.iiuoln and MoKinley. Never
Columbus sighted San Salvador
there Imn a time when it has
Pern so cisv for America to !;ecp out
of war P doiir; nothing. No country
ha: h-ei, willing to iicur even our
passive hostility and llirow to ler
enemies the benefits of our material
and moral support.
"i lur danger is Piter, when pea ."(
shall he made and the great armies
ar" ftec and rulers and governments
Our Prosperity "Spotted and Stained" Beveridge
jry ? & jt? jt
aytke llil
WILSON CELEBRATES NEBRASKA'S B RTHD
nu
Mi
': a I 'on t for ways to repair tlvir
-.. s. Then will om" the pressu,'-'
cempetiiion hacked hy force Pi
so law fontinents whore the wealth
ih. iioil'1 is concentrating. Then
: it he determined whether the
np e din trine is to he surrendered
as .!! idle bond.
'Re. ice ir not maintained hy the
snnvr.ih'r of just rights, for the pre
sumption of impunity begotten h
weak suhmission to aggression breeds
still fur I lit r nucicssion. Pence is
maintained hy the assertion of i"st
r ights, dispns-ionati ly accompanied hy
a knowledge of power.
"The Wilson administration has
failed in three fields of major ini
"l:ii"i a"d has shown itse'f irreso
lute and incompetent. That is the
nulL'tm nt of the world. These three
at" th murder of our citizens on the
I.usitania. the pre .nation of military
rind naval far' e fur- national defense
and the ghastly faiiure in Mxi"o."
Mr. Root ro iewal the Lusitani-i
anl other suhmarine negnliations wi 'i
tP'imany. I e added: "A ye: r and mor--later,
upon the president's declara'ioi
to congress that if such thine.--, con
tinue pe would break off diplomatic
repitions. CiTiii inv stisoend: d her
practice of agression. She may re
sume it tomorrow.
of the Mexican situation Mr. Rent
said: ' Proeln iming impartiality and
resoect for the rights of .Mexico. IV
i'ient Wilson Interfered in the ej.il
oon'rnversv in Mexir o and finally in
tervened Py force of ''-ms and do
stroved i re partv and aided the other
parte, and overthrew Hucrt-i and et
i:p O'rraira and Villa in the control
of triivernment there. H has man
aged it with U"h skill that no man
in Mexico dares rail hiir.se'f our
friend.
"The question or the American nen
nle nu": is 'Are rpev willing to have
their vhal aff.ors during the next f.nn
vcars conducted In the sime way that
Ih-1 Mexii -tn business b'.'s been con
ducted?' "
The speaker then turned tn the tar
iff s.'iv!nr: "Our market has always
Peep attra "tive to Furonean prodiu s.
II will he f;ir more nttrac'ivo after 1h.-
"ar. It is hichiv prnh 1 1 !,- that even
Fncland will resort to a tiretet i'
ta-iff -o that our production wil' tnet
lroteotivp barrier in ."ll the foreign
markets. most nrotect nurseries
or we shall become the dumping
"r.emd of tbp wie-ld and our workmen
v i'l 1 e in the streets
"If the -nctr. want" a nfr of
revenue onlv, thev may p"t tlie ma";
ing ol it in 1'-e hands of t:" di-om-
rtio partv. I'lit ean nnv B'r." man
contemplate that party making a
tcciive tariff. In the fi-st plac- the
'annot honestly, they do not believe
in it.
"If there ever was n clumsy. Pl-
oeeei'ed. misfit law itiisthe I'ndr-r-v.'.iod
tariff law. It had failed when
the war in Kurnpe hecjin. So lorr. as
the war lasts our producers
There is another crave matt
which should influence- the selectiou
of a new Koveiamient. That is th
surrender of luc president and con
mess to the peremptory demand of
I he four railroad brotherhoods for the
increase of their wa;;es by a law
Pio-seii under threats.
"I'nivcrsal opinion has been that
-.-aep ipicslions oiit;ht to he settled by
arbitration. Labor has been in favor
of that. The most intelligent and
I roailmiudc d employers have been for
that.
"If railroad rates have been justly
fixed hv tlie interstate commerce com-
' " ...'."-.. i.e....,.., ...
pay to their employes the rates must
be int reused and tlie w hole public j
mast ay more.
"There is a broader question than
the payment of hiiiher railroad rates.
There is tile question of tlie compe-
tencv 'f government and tlie spirit j
of a stlf-sovernins people. If the'
liiMi'illiiH'ii: or iios oeinoi i .iv is m
submit to compulsion by an organized
minority and the people are to ap
prove that by tneir votes other minor
ities will profit by the example.
"The weaM'ess of the democr'.tic
party is that it is national only in
form and profession.
"I: ha heir, the party of states'
rights and jealous of tlie power of
the national government. It denied
the right of the nation to mike pro
visions to establish a rational hank,
to restrict slavery, to prevent the se
cess.cn of slates, to issue greenbacks,
to maintain a protective tariff.
"When the democratic congress re
jected Secretary garrison's plan for
a national citizen force to supplement
the regular army and .substituted tne
absurdity inadequate provisions for
bringing in the national guard of th"
states it was because the patty clung
to the privilege of :fppointmen; of the
officers by goVf mors of the staler.
That would have been impossible if
the di ncic'.atic party had her n in
spired Py nationality and ha:l thought
tirst of the nation in arms.
"It was because- tlie spirit of Amer
ican nationality was not in the presi
dent or his secretary of state, or a
democratic congress that the brave
words of the message to lierroany be
fore the Lusiiania was sunk failed to
bite into the consciousness of the tier
man government and prevent the oat
rage. That is the real reason why
th? arrogant demands of the railroad
I rotpephoods upon the government of
the I'r.ited States under threat of in
jure was not resented r.r repelled.
"With cheerful hope. I recognize a-:
the true inheritor and Interpreter '
tint ancient spirit which has made
America wh it she is. the strong, true
end tried gentleman whom are
about to make Hit- tweniy-ninth presi
dent of the Tinted States Charles
l.'vans Hughes.
Mr. Root with former Tnitrd States
Senator Chuuncy M. Depew, was
greeted by an audience i:i which
tluie were many women. He begat
his address by saving that "the peo
ple of the I'nited States have some
sennas pustness to Pe done py their
government in the next four year".
Shall v.e engage Mr. Wib-on, Mr.
f'.ryan, Mr. MoAdoo, Mr. Daniels sind
the rest of the democratic administra
tion and a democratic congress t.i
manage our affairs for the next four
r ro- I yeirs,'' he a:'ked.
the- M-. Root read lis speech from man
uscript. Mr. Depew followed him and
charaterized President Wilson's
speechmat Shadow Daw n. X. J., last
Saturday as "admirablv phrased and
adroitly and enptivalint'Iv tint." hut he
added that "ccneralizntions never will
b ar the ar id test of facts."
THE FRANCONIA
SENT TO BOTTOM
BY A SUBMARINE
L iN'DON', Oct. ,r. The admiralty
announces that the C'unard steamer
p'ranconia, employed for transport
duty, was sunk in tlie Mediter
ranean yesterday by an enemy sub
marine. The transport had no
troops aboard. Twelve men of the
crew are missing.
According to tlie latest available
reports, the Franconia was a vessel
I of lX.UiO tons gross and was built
in HUH. Her maiden voyage was
S between Liverpool and Roston in
I February, 11)11.
I The Franconia was CLT) feet long.
I 72 feet wide, and displaced 2fi.U00
j tons. When she was built she was
I considered one of the most com-
foriable steamers of the Ounard
line. A striking feature of the
saloon appointments was the ab
sence of staterooms on the boat
deck which was devoted to a prom
enade room, a library, a gymna
sium, and a lounge and smoking
room. The vessel was nicknamed
"the bath ship" inasmuch as she
! had more bathrooms and showers
than the Mauritania. The steerage i
j of the Franconia was considered !
I the best appointed of any steamer I
I carrying third class passengers.
The old idea of steerage compart- I
J ments had been eliminated and j
i staterooms, capable of accommo- ;
dating four, six and eight persons i
! had been installed.
II DEFENSE OF
IN STRfiTON
Held Up Bank Bandit Dead
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
MIAMI, Ariz., Oct. 5. Manuel Es
turedo, a bandit who held up and
robbed the Miami branch of the Gila
Valley bank this afternoon, was shot
and Killed tonight by Deputy Sheriff
Williams. Esturedo was overtaken by
I spectators at bay by several shots. He
I was closely pursued by Deputy Sher
I iffs Wilson, Shute, Williams and Elem,
j who secured mounts at a nearby stable
As the robber topped a hill below town,
i he turned and f-red at the pursuers
with no effect. The chase continued
over two miles. When the horses were
-Is
KAISER UTS
EASTER!! FRONT
TO SEE FIGHT
hnvi
CLEAN COT DISCUSSION OF
G1PH ISSUES BV BEY
(Special to The Republican)
SPRl.WF.RVIRI.n, Ariz., Oct. In
contrast with the flowery flight oC
oratory indulged in by his opponent
who e'.ouds the issues of the campaign
behind a cloak of sentiment about tall
pines, hie mountains and beautiful
golden sunsetM. Judge J. il. Kibbey,
reoublican candidate for the I'nited
Ftates senate tonight delivered the
fundamental campaign issue to the
la
Ho was met with tremendous ap
plause. Joe I'rochaska, candidate for secre
tary of state, who had been received
in the warmest possible manner in the
cities visited during the tour, was
Riven a big reception. Mr. I'rochaska
has many friends here as he has In
nearly every other town In the state.
Otos .1 llaughn, candidate for the
supreme Justice, continued his plea fi
strictly non-partisan supreme
a strictly non-partisan supreme court.
gest political gathering Springer-1 Judge r.aughn today received many
le has ever known. He didn t !od 1 assurances ot support from numerous
a single point in the clear straight
forward manner that is characteristic '
of Arizona's best loved governor.
He told his listeners just exactly
where he idood, there was no hesiten
oy ami it has been this way through
out the campaign. Judge Kibbey
hasn't a sigule thing to apologize for,
he makes hue few promises and every
on who has ever listened to him
knows that he can execute every
! leilgc he is making.
He is seeking- ep-etion solely upon
the enviable record he has established
during his long career of public me
f a'ness in the state
Judge Kibhev told his large audience
Mint despite the fact that he is handi
capped by his opponent who has
mailed out reveral thousand dollars
vorth of campaign literature at the
pe,. e's expense. He will be the man
v l o Is next to represent Arizona In
th" senate of the lnit"d States.
"I could not afford to Rnend that
much motie,. n a political fight." Kib
bev declared. ' "and if I am elected, I
will niver "pond the npople's money to
further my own andid.u y. '
voters in Springerviile, Snow-flake and
Taylor and the other towns the party
passed through.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
. With the Russians still vigorously
attacking Austro-t icrmaus in Vol
hynia, west of Lutsk, to the Dniester
in t.'ali; ia, Kmperor William has
started for the front of General von
Dinsingen near Lutsk. where the
principal fighting is taking place.
At various places in this sector
and in Galicia Detrograd asserts that
the Aust:o-(iermans have been de
feated. Berlin, declares that the onlv
point where Russians learned Teu
tonic lines was north of Zubilno, anil
that they later were driven out.
Although there is divergence in re
ports from Sofia and Ducharest con
cerning the falc of the Rumanian
who crossed the Danube into Bul
garia, the fact is patent that they
have ceased their "demonstration."
Bucharest says the Rumanians
withdrew to the left of the Danube,
hut Sofa asserts that the battle field
in northern Bulgaria between I'ust
etiuk and Tuftukai. wheio they cross
ed the river, is covered with Ruman
ian dead ns a result of their forced
speodv retirement to their own soil.
All the attempts of Rumanians and
Russians to advance in Dohrudja
have been frustrated by counter at
tacks of tlie Teutonic allies.
In Transylvania the Rumanians
have (aptnred near I'arald. Austin-
German fortifications after a battle
that lasted three days. Near Bekok
ten. north of Fogaras and in the vi
cinity of tiie Hatszeg mountains, the
Rumanians were reported by" Berlin
as in retreat, but it is admitted by
the German war office that the in
vader have made another gain in the
irsova sce( nr
A submarine of the Teutonic allies
has sent to the bottom in the Medit
erranean the Canard liner Franconia,
which was being ured as a transport.
No troops were on the sleamrr and
only twlvo men of the crew of ;!02
are missing.
Foi-es of the entente powers have
dri-en their line to w ithin twelve mile's
of Monastir. Serbia, and occupied the
town of Buf. Occupation of Ycnikeni,
near the Struma river by the British
is admitted hy Berlin. Likewise. Ber
lin concede'" the loss of N'idje moun
tain, east of Mnnastir. The Italians
have captured several additional
towns in Albania.
.oriKioeraoie rignting . nas again
taken place in Asiatic Turkey where
iloiifV the coastal region Russian land
forces, in co-operation with their
fieet. have made advances on a wide
front, inflicting heavy losses on the
lurks ana capturing arms, nmmum-
TRepublican A. P. Leased Wire
OMAHA, Oct. 5. President Wilson
tame into the middle west today for
the first time since the campaign be
gun, and received what his politual
lieutenants t haraeteri'.:ed as the great
est reception of h:s career. lie de
clared for the "unshackling" of Amer
ican business in order that it may meet
the competition of the world after the
F.uropean war, and cited the legisla
tion of his administration as going far
in this direction.
The president was cheered during the
day by great crowds. Attracted here
for the celebration of Nebraska's
fiftieth anniversary, thousands of peo
ple from nearby cities anil states
packed Omaha's streets and shouted
enthusiastically every time Mr. Wilson
appeared. The president and his polit
ical advisers wee apparently well
pleased with the reception.
Omaha was in gala attire for the day.
The celebration was non-partisan in
character and arranged by a commit
tee made up largely of republicans.
Starting w'lth brief speeches to
crowds in Iowa towns this morning,
the president came here to deliver
three speeches, attend a luncheon and
dinner, lead a parade and then review
it. visit the .National Swine show and
hold several political conferences. He
left tonight for Long Branch, N. J.,
where he will arrive Saturday morning.
President Wilson declared at to
night's dinner that he had been greatly
pleased hy tlie reception accorded him
during the day. "The thinking, plan-
jiing brain is the master of Amerka."
said the president, in discussing the
broad view of the people of Nelrrasku.
Tlie president was received hy a roar
of cheering from the assemblage which
packed the Omaha Auditorium tonight.
The appijuso was sharp and ear-split-ting.
He rose several times and
bowed, smiling broadly, falls of "three
cheers fur our next president," were
cheered, t'rowds thronged the street
outside. For several minutes there
were such calls as "Who kept us out
of war'.' Wilson:" "Who prevented the
strike? Wilson;" "Who saved the na
tion? 'ib:on."
Governor Morehead of Nebraska in
troduced the president.
"It would be very difficult to do jus
tice to an occasion of this kind," be
gan the president. He spoke of the
importance of the west, mentioning
Nebraska particularly, and praised the
people who come from Kurope to seek
freedom. The doors to 1 hi? I'nited
States, he said, were built to he kept
opi n. not to he closed. He paid tribute
to tlie western pioneers.
"Since IS'.iii. when internal frontiers
a posse of deputy sheriffs and citizens I exhausted, the Spaniard, who is a rank
in the foothills of the Pinal mountains.) socialist, took to the brush and com
The sum of $5,000 taken from the j menced firing on the officers. Deputy
bank's safe by the robber, when he cov-1 Elem was shot in the left hand, tearing
ered the cashier, H. O. Fitzsimmons, away three finoers. and also received
with a revolver, was recovered.
Esturedo entered the Miami branch )
of the Gila Valley Bank shortly after!
closing hours today, covered the cashier
with a revolver, compelled him to open I
slight wound in the leq. The depu
ties surrounded the bandit as he
emerged from the brush to kill Wil
liams, but the officer by a well directed
shot sent a bullet crashing into his
the safe and escaped with several I chest and he expired almost instantly
i"""""" uuor. n pubbe was nastily Dank oTTicials at a late hour were
formed to pursue the bandit, who had checking over the contents of the safe,
fled to the foothills. The amount secured filled a cement
Esturedo fled on horseback, holding sack.
WHEN CITIZENS
RAD GUARANTY
OF PROTECTION
ITHER1NES
STARTS A RIOT
OF N. I WOMEN
(Special to The Republican)
NEW YORK, Oct. 5. Commenting
upon the recent open letter of Dr.
Charles W. Klliot on the presidential
campaign, Mr. F.verett P. Wheeler, the
distinguished New York lawyer and
publicist, says in a letter to the New
York Tribune:
"President Klliot, in his letter on the
presidential campaign, has stated one
issue with great distinctness. He says:
'America has now turned its back on
the familiar policy of Hntno and Great
Britain, of protecting or avenging their
nuuueiiiig citizens ior iorce in arms
and has set up a quite different policy
of her own.'
"It is ouite true that we have turned
our back on the policy which was that
of Home and Great Britain, and, 1 mav
add, of France. It has also been tha't
of tiiis country. Daniel Webster said,
when secretary of state: "Their dutv
to interfere becomes imperative in cases
meeting their own citizens.' John
I'lSKe pllt it more StronL'lv When he Jones
said: 'A government touches the low-i scaP
est point or ignominy when it Con- I "Yi
fesses to an inability to protect the j cried
lives am! property of its citizens.' 'dress
hen our wandering citizens were
captured and their property seized hv
the Barbary corsairs, Thomas Jeferson
said in his annual message of BS04:
'To those who expect us to calculate
whether a compliance with unjust de
mands will not cost us less than a war
we must leave as a question of calcula
tion for them also, whether to retire
from unjust demands will not cost them
less than a war.'
in the rnited States disappeared, the I ,, t.lkon , ' Jefefrson sup-
president declared. America has taken ,Mrii lhe nsh ',:,:''.. 'a .J..
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NT.W YORK, Oct. 5 Spurred on
by the r xhorti lions of "Mother Jones,
:i0 wr es and women relatives ol
striking street car men battled with
the police late this afternoon, in the
most serious rii t since the walkout
on the traction lines a month ago
Nights sticks were swung right and
left bv the police, and many of the
women were bruised. Scores of the
ride 's carried babies in their arms.
A crowd of strikers entered the fray
on the side of the women and na?
drivir.g l ack the few patrolmen on the
scene when an automobile load of
or lice reinforcements arrived. The.
reserves plunged into the midst of
the struggling mob and wielded their
clubs without mercy. When the
rioters finally fled they left nine
prisoner.-. six women and three men
in the hands of the police.
The trouble began when the women
poured out of the hall where "Mother"
had exhorted them to "get the
off the cars."
on a new aspect and the nation has
been grown closer together. It was no
coincidence, he said, that soon after
ward interest was shown in Cuba, the
Philippines and Porto Rico.
"Kvcr since then." he continued, "we
(Continued on Fage Two)
Withdraival of Americans
Part of All Peace Program
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
ATLANTIC CITY, N. J.. Oct. 5.
Various plans for the protection of
life and property along tho border
again were discussed today by the
American-.Mcxiean joint commission
but without agreement. Two sessions
were held, the second lasting until
night.
At least four plans for border patrol
have been suggested, two by the
Americans and two by the Mexicans
All involve the withdrawal of Gen
eral Pershing's army from Chihuahua.
The Americana have steadily insist
ed that Mexico's internal problems
must he considered as an integral
part of any agreement for border
control. The Mexicans have acceded
reluctantly to the attitude of the
Americans. Details of the plans sug
gested today were not revealed.
1 iiiit tne Americans had served no
tice on the Mexicans that General
Perdilngs force would not be with
drawn until Afexico had demonstrated
Its nb'Utv to establish order was
again denied tonight by 'Secret a rv
Franklin K. Lane. He admitted that
the attitude of tlie Mexicans remained
unchanged.
(Continued on Page Five)
Entente's Terms
To Admit Greece
To Festivities
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON, Oct. 6. According to
Athens dispatches the settling of the
latest crisis in Greece will be both
long and laborious, but it will be ended
with the selection of a business cabinet
compliance with the spirit of the
note of the entente allies of June 21.
The Daily News' Athens correspond
ent says that the reply or Aristiue
Uriand. the French premier, regarding
conditions under which the entente al
lies would accept Greece's military ad
hesion to the entente, was responsible
or the resignation of the Kalogero-
poulos cabinet.
"Despite the efforts of the official
iniiouncement to throw the responsi
bility for the resignation upon the en
tente, says the correspondent, "the
fact remains that the immediate cause
was the king's unshakable determina
tion to adhere to neutrality at all
costs After waiting vainly
for recognition from the entente pow
ers, M. Kalogeropoulos decided to
sound M. liriand as to the conditions
under which the entente would accept
Greece's entry into the war.
"M. Briand's answer was. in effect,
that although the situation of today
had entirely changed Greece having
forfeited the sympathies she had en
joyed among the entente, one of whom,
namely, Italy, opposed her adhesion
vet if the king personally would offer
the unconditional participation of
Greece in the struggle, declare war
against Bulgaria and order a general
mobilization, the allies would reply
that they would accept the proposition
ind promise to aid Greece in every way
to carry on the wa. . and also protect
Greece's interests, provided the new
policy was carried out by a govern
ment in which the allies could place
full confidence. This answer caused a
majority of the cabinet to decide to
participate in the war, which decision
the king refused to approve."
visions for an army furnished bv M.-im.
et of Tripoli and compelled the bey of
'"I""' - iiiiihe nonoraoie terms with
our government. Amerim h,.ri .i.,,.u
more lor Christendom against the bar
barians thah all the powers of Europe
united.
"President Kliot'a idea seems to be
jo adhere to tl' policy of splendid iso
lation that sonte Americans hnvo mi.
vocated. For my part I prefer to say
with Emerson, 'The world was made
for honest trade.' It is by commerce
that civilization is to be extended. I
do not say commerce alone, but all the
benevolent and Christianizing influ
ences of missionaries, physicians and
hospitals, and education go hand in
hand witli commerce. The question for
the American people to decide is
whether this country is prepared to
protect the rights of its citizeiiH in for
eign countries or whether it will say:
They have no business there, we will
leave them to their fate.' "
arc too sentimental," she
"Staying at home thinking of
tad trinkets, when you ought
to be oat raiding hell."
Trooping into tlie street the women
hooted and jeered at the crosstown
cars in Kith strett. Suddenly a chunk
of aaphalt was hurled through the
window of a car halted hy a large
auto truck This t-eemed the signal
for a general attack on the car and
in less than a minute every window
was shattered. A patrolmen who was
on strike duty 01 the car, escorted
the fortv or fifty passengers into the
stree, and then charged alone into
the crowd of jeering women. He was
helpless, however, until asistance ar
rived. Meanwhile the car was being
wrecked as piece after piece of brok
en asphalt from a. pile on the side
walk was hurled at it. The motor-
m: n and conductor were lost to sight
alter several women climbed aboard
the car and pulled them into the
street. The men's clothing was torn,
their faces scratched and bruised.
One of tlie women arrested charged
the police with dragging her iniant,
child from her arms. She asserted'
the child was left on the sidewalk
and two hours after the riot no trace
OF FOUR YEARS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO. Oct. .'.. Former rnited
.States Senator Albert J. Beveridg...
opening ids western speaking tour in
behalf of Charles K. Hughes here to
night, attacked the administration's
foreign policy, claimed republic credit
for the so-called constructive legisla
tion of the administration and de
clared the prosperity of the present
was "sectional, spotted and stained."
He characterized the handling of
tne threatened laoor strike as jug
gling with expediency," and declared
it had wrought deadly harm to tho
cause of union labor.
Senator Beveridge denied, that tho
country has been kept Oct of war.
"We invaded Mexico, he said, " and
withdrew. Hut American marines
were killed. Our territory was invad
ed hy Mexicans who were driven out,
but again Americans were killed. We
invaded that country once more and
today our military forces, with siege
guns are entrenched in the heart of
northern Mexico. They have fought
wilii uniformed Mexicans, and soldiers
of both sides have fallen."
Said Mr. Beveridge:
"The administration boasts of 'con
structive laws.' Where did they come
from? Who originated the currency
law? A republican. Who was thu
author of tlie national child labor
law? A progressive and republican.
Who proposed and framed the tariff
commission law? The same man who
originated national child labor legis
lation. Who advanced the idea of a
national trade commission.' An emi
nent American business .man a pro
gressive and republican.
And during all the long years of
fighting for these reforms Mr. Wilson
and his party Irowned upon and op
posed them. Only when the fight was
finished and public opinion so firmly
behind these regressive measures tint
the forces of reaction and localism
dared oppose them ro longer, did Mr.
Wilson change his mind and force a
reluctant and grumbling party to
half-heartedly support them. And
thin was done at the twelfth nimr
under the compulsion of terror of the
impending election. How will laws,
so originated and so enacted, be exe
cuted hy a power thus belated and
unfriendly?"
On the subject of prosperity,
Mr Beveridge:
"Tlie administration points to
prosperity. Where it is? in Me
chusetts? Yes. n California?
In Connecticut? Yes. In Oregon?
No. In Pennsylvania Yes. In Wash
ington? No. In the Mississippi val
ley? Yes. In the western mountain
states? No. Certain sections have
industrial inflation, but other parts of
the country .have depression Genuine
prosperity must he nation-wide.
"Put our so-called prosperity today
is sectional. It appears only in sots.
It is a spotted prosperitv spotted and
stained. Wherever the war has di
rectely reached the sources of re
duction, business is good; elsewhere
business is had. We must have a
tariff that wU protect all parts of
the country alike in peace as weP as
in war. and make our prosperity
genuine, stcadv, and national.
"Tho capture of foreign trade is
only less necessary than the preserva
tion of our heme markets and it will
he harder to accomplish. Yet it must
he done. e wa re making a surplus
before the war: that surplus will h
greater after the war. I'nless we sell
it abroad, we will have congestion at
home. This means lower wages, idM
men, tighter money all the elements
of a panic. An unsold surplus is the
blood clot in the heart of business.
"For a long time the nations at
war cannot buy from us, except in
said
our
ssa-N'o.
(Continued on Page Five)
(Continued on Page Two)
GOETH A'-S NAMED ON
EIGHT-HOUR BOARD
Republican A. P. Leased Wire!
OMAHA. Oct. 5. A formal an
nouncement was made here tonight
that President Wilson has selected
Major General Gocthals. Oommissioner
C irke of the interstate commerce
commission, and George Rublce of the
trade commission as members of tlie
hoard created by congress to investi
gate the railroad eight-hour law.
While the law does not go into ef
fect until January l, the president
desired the members of the board .o
give a close study to the entire situ
ation. General Goethals will act as chair
man of the board.
RANU DECLARES PRESIDENT
IS OPPOSED TO PROHIBITION
Republican A. P. Leased Wire i
council bluffs, ia., Oct. r.
Just over the Missouri river from
where President Wilson was speaking
in Omaha, tonight. J. Frank Hanly,
the prohibition candidate for presi
dent, charged that the executive was
opposed to state-wide prohibition.
Hnndly's assertion followed the re
ceipt of a communication from Secre
tary Tumulty in response to a tele
gram sent from San Francisco on
September 23 by the prohibition na
tional campaigners inquiring if the
assertion of the California wets that
Women of Two Organizations
Run Into Collision in Chicago
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO, Oct. 5. Women of the
Hughes woman campaign party, undis
turbed by the street demonstration of
some of the members of the Working
women's Independent Wilson League
which greeted them on the arrival of
their special train here, spent a busy
day and pronounced themselves 'well
pleased with their reception.
The Wilson Women's League were
on hand when the train drew into the
station here and with banners urging
democratic doctrines drew from the at
tention the eastern women received.
The republican women waiting to
welcome the travelers hurried them into
automobiles and t(jr a hotel where they
were welcomed by Mayor Thompson
and other republican officials. After
an afternoon meeting attended by sev
eral thousand women, the campaign
party separated into eight units to visit
some of the big factories, addressing
the employes.
Tonight they attended a rally in
which former Senator A. J. Beveridge
opened his western speaking campaign.
the president was against prohibition
but favorable to temperance was true.
Tumulty's reply did not answer th"
ouestion directly, but referred the di'ys
to two letters regarding the presi
dent's attitude on the liquor iinosiio i
written at different times in the last
five years which they interpreted as
meaning that he favored only county
local option. A request was made by
the drys that the president reply at
Bakersfield. Cab, on September "l by
telegraph that they might use his an
swer in the California campaign, but
Tumulty's communication was ad
dressed to San Francisco, returned to
Chicago, and finally reached the dry
special train at l'arker, S. P., today.
"Here, at last," Hanly said tonight,
'"is a confession, tardy and indirect,
but a confession through the presi
dent's secretary and over his own sig
nature that he is in favor of county
option and opposed to state-wide pro
hibition. "The California wets seem to be
justified in their classing the president
of the United States as one opposed
to state-wide prohibition, along with
the brewers, distillers, winery owners,
saloon and brothel keepers of that
commonwealth and the nation. It's
not good company, but it seems he
has deliberately chosen it."
Ira Landrith. lhe vice presidential
candidate, brought laughter fiVm the
crowd by asking when they thought
Chicago, New York and Peoria woui l
go dry by "county local option."
