. .- I
mo
i
Tenth Year, Number 20
LIBERAL, SEWARD COUNTY, KANSAS, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1916
S1.50 Per Yi
MR. SIMMONS MAKES SPEECH
John S. Simmons, Republican can
didate for congressman from the
Seventh district, was In Liberal Mon
day and made a speech that night at
the court house. Only about half the
seats were filled with listeners, quite
a few of whom were Democrats who
had come but to hear the opposition's
side of the question. Mr. Simmons
started out in good shape and was
fair to both sides during the first few
ininutes of the speech, but finally
Jumped over to the haw side and be
fore he got through well, we didn't
know President Wilson was such a
''weak, vacillating, namby-pamby
professor," nor that the Democrats In
congress who hare glveii the Uaited
States the most progressive legisla
tion ever enacted during that time,
didn't have enough mother wit about
them to run a peanut stand on a busy
street corner. He paid his respects to
the Land Bank bill, the child labor
"bill, and several other Important
measures that have been highly com
mended by the press of all pollltcal
beliefs, and seemed to find holes in
ach one big enough for an elephant
.' to 'Crawl through. The only thing he
endorsed was the Currency bill, for
which he gave the Taft administra
tion credit, which was news to every
one present. The Currency bill was
the Joint and exclusive work of con
gressman Glass of Virginia and Sen
ator Owen of Oklahoma, and bears
their names to this day. But the big
gest joke of them all was when he
alluded to the Republican party as
the "party of prohibition." The rank
and file of that party has many good
men and women who have made
enormous sacrifices to further the
dry cause, for which everyone gives
them due credit, but the leaders of
' the party, when in solemn national
convention assembled, have let the
i subject severely alone at all ' times.
'-And it's dollars t doughnuts that
Mr. Hughes will d the same it he
seta elected. He also alluded to Mr.
' Hughes as being in favor of woman
snffrmc SM-OTesidsftt Wilsva op
posed to it. The records show that
Mr. Hughes was opposed to it while
governor of New York, refused to ex-
( " " B."1.
It when the issue was voted on in
New York last year, and hasn't voted
on that question or at any election
since 1910; whereas President Wil
son came out flatfooted for it last
year, and made a trip to his home
state to vote for the same. Simmons
wilt 1 . l - 1 . .
.win ua v T3 lu un m hllib mui h cuiihihl-
nt in his presentation of facts if he
intends to get very far with the fe
male voters of the district.
The entire speech was full of glar
ing inconsistencies, and brought
cheers only three times during the
whole of it, one of which "outbursts"
was indulged in by a lone patriot who
perhaps has his eye on the post-
iuwidiiii duuuiu tug eitsuuuu ku lur
Hughes. Personally, Mr. Simmons
seems to be a very pleasant man to
meet, but he's got a man's size job
cut out for him if he intends to beat
Air. Shouse by the tactics he pursues.
The days of "give 'em h 1" and
The Same Popular Price Same Guarantee of Satisfaction
That's the maker's achievement in offering this Snitj and Over
coat again this season for $17 the same price as formerly.
StyleplusfiiT
Clothes,!
'The mum price lh nattoa 9W.1
are the only clothes advertised to sell at a nationally known price.
That price, $17, conpled with style that towers over the common ordi
nary kind coupled with quality that men respect everywhere, haa
brought about such a demand that one of the great , organizations can
work the year round on STYLEPLUS $17. Greater volume has over
come the increased price of woolens. Come in and take your choice of
suit and overcoat$17, the same old price.
Then Don't Forget "Stein-Block Smart Clothes'
MILLINERY DEPARTMENT
Our millinery Department is a busy one. Another large shipment of new
shapes just in from the eastern markets. Let Mrs. Pearl Deurmyer, who has'
charge of our millinery department, select your hat. ''.' V- i.'.V ...
See our new creations just coming in in our Dress Goods and Ready-to-Wear
Departments our business has more than doubled in this department Don't fail
to see the new things just in. ''..'.'' ''
"38 Years Successful Merchandising Has Taught us How to Serve You Better"
: v
pa ( "
111 ifjiA v
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS,
GENTS' FURNISHINGS AND
.SHOES '
X
7jwmd
0 L
ESTABLISHED 1878
LIBERAL, KANSAS,
GDTMON, OKLAHOMA,
DALHART, TEXAS
SHOOTING AFFRAY AT OCHIL- .
TREE
A shooting affray took place at
Ochiltree, Texas, Saturday evening
that could have ended disastrously
for at least one of the participants.
It seems that bad feeling had existed
for some time between Dr. Brewer, a
physician at Ochiltree, and Judge R.
T. Correll, the county Judge of Och
iltree county. Judge Correll was re
elected at the recent election In that
county. Both men were armed when
they met at one of the drug stores
and it seems that business com
menced to pick up without any pre
liminaries. The judge was shot in
the right side a little above the groin,
and the doctor got a bullet In the leg.
Dr. Rhodes of Oray was Immediately
summoned to look after the judge
and he was brought to the Liberal
hospital about 4 o'clock Sunday
morning, where he was operated on
at once by Drs. Huddleston, Jones
and Rhodes. For a time his condi
tion was considered precarious but at
this time he seems to be out of dan
ger and will no doubt be back in the
running again in a few weeks. It was
a close call and we hope the matter
Is now settled to the satisfaction of
all concerned.
"turn, the rascals out" passed, put of
our political life some years ago, and
there are none so poor as to do rev
erence to their memory at the present
time.
WILL TALK STREET PAVING
The paving of about seven blocks
of streets in the business district
will be one of the subjects up for dis
cussion at the meeting of the Cham
ber of Commerce tonight. This prop
osition has been talked about for
some time and the majority of the
property owners along the streets In
question seem to favor the idea. The
approximate cost of several different
kinds of paving will be submitted at
the meeting. While many people may
think the town Is hardly large enough
to think about paved streets at the
present time, the time will soon be
here to necessitate such a move, and
the quicker the matter is looked Into
the easier question it will be to solve
when it finally becomes imperative.
The streets of Liberal are narrower
than most towns and hte cost for pav
ing would consequently be less than
other places have to dig up.
THE RING STORE
Some jewelers carry rings merely because they are iewelry,
we carry them in rich profusion because they are beautiful and
a true adornment This store is known to many as the Ring
Store because those who are especially interested in this form
of jewelry have found here not only exceptional offerings in
rings, but an intelligent interest to match theirs. If you love
rings, come and see ours. If you don't, come and see them
and you will love them. : All our rings are solid gold, $2 and up.
O. J. WILKINS, Jeweler
At Taylor'
HEAR CONGRESSMAN SHOUSE
Congressman Jouett Shouse of the
Big Seventh congressional district
will speak in Kismet next Wednes
day afternoon at 2 o'clock and at
Liberal that night at 8 o'clock. Con
gressman Shouse has been right in
the thick of it in Washington ever
since he went there and has upheld
the President's program of progres
sive legislation at every turn of the
road. There seems to be a lack of
understanding on the part of a great
many people In regard to the Rural
Credits bill recently passed by con
gress, and Mr. Shouse will be loaded
with information regarding the same
He was a member of the committee
that framed this bill and knows how
to explain its different working parts,
We understand he is a very good ora
tor and can make a speech that is
well worth listening to. The meeting
will be held at the court house. He
will give a full account of his stew
ardship during the past two years In
the speech next Wednesday evening
and you should make It a point to be
there and hear him.
MARK ADAMS GETS HONOR
Word was received this week by
Miss Faye Adams from her brother,
Mark, who Is attending Kansas Uni
verslty this year, that he was elected
president of the Freshman class.
There are nearly a thousand students
In this class and Mark got over two
thirds of the votes. We see a bright
political career ahead for Mark if he
can keep 'em lined up In the future
years like he has started. He is a
graduate of the Liberal high school,
vintage of 1916, and Liberal has rea
son to be proud of this added dls
tinctlon. It has been the writer's
pleasure to know Mark Adams since
he was knee high to a duck, and so
far he has made good at every jump,
We believe he will keep It up, too.
WOODWARD BOOSTERS HERE
several carioaas or boosters were
here from Woodward, Oklahoma,
Wednesday advertising the big auto
races at that place on October 11, 12
and 13. There will be a circus and
carnival also at the same time and
the Woodward folks promise some
thing doing every minute of the en
tire three days. The live ones of Lib
eral are generally represented at
such doln's and there will no doubt
be someone there to let the crowds
know that Liberal is on the map.
Wm. Mulligan, who has spent a
couple of weeks here with his sister,
Mrs. Guy LeMonnier, and relatives at
Guymon, left Tuesday for his home
In Henry, Nebraska. ' '
-f ' A SAD-ACCIDENT
Rev. aad Mr. Geo. C. Hfnkle were
called to Garden City Friday by a
telegram announcing ' their son-ln
law, Henry Lohren, had met with
serious accident at the alfalfa mill
of which institution he was foreman,
They were accompanied to Garden
City by their son, Jonas, and daugh
ter, Miss Sarah, and John Lohren,
brother to the Injured man. It seems
that Mr. Lohren got too near a cog
wheel in his rounds about the mill
and the hem of his pant leg became
fastened in the cogs, drawing the
limb Into the same and crushing the
bone about every four Inches. The
machinery was stopped as soon as the
accident was discovered and the
young man was rushed to medical as
sistance, but he died on the aperat-
ing table about two hours after the
accident. Mr. Lohren was a young
man about 27 years old and leaves
a wile and two small children. Mr.
Hinkel returned to Liberal Tuesday
but his wife will stay there a week or
two longer and bring Mrs. Lohren
and the children back with her to
spend the winter here. The accident
is greatly to be regretted by every
one and the community will extend
its sympathy to the bereaved ones.
To Begin Work on Roads
The roads committee, of the Cham
ber of Commerce and several others
interested met with the township
board of Liberal township Saturday
morning and made plans for begin
ning work on the east and weBt roads
immediately. A meeting is being ar
ranged for an early date at the Sun
shine school house west of town to se
cure the help and co-operation of the
farmers of that district. With the
co-operation and assistance of the
township and the farmers, it is hoped
to build about seven miles of perman
ent road In these districts. Chair
man Trlndle of the roads committee
Informed the meeting ' that there
would also be some extensive repair
ing done on the county road running
south from Liberal. All of these
roads are In bad shape and and their
Improvement will be a great help to
all who have much traveling or haul
ing to do. Watch for further particu
lars regarding the Sunshine school
house meeting and endeavor to be
there. ,The Bluebell meeting was a
great success, so do your part to
make this next one equally success
ful. The road proposition will be dis
cussed at the meeting Friday night.
Mrs. Aubyu Allen, who has been
visiting her mother, Mrs. D. F.
Woods, several days, returned Tues
day to her home near Ochiltree.
GET OCtfHl FIRS WAGON '
Why not a Are fighting demonstra
tion on Fire Prevention Day, Monday,
October 9?
A trial run by the lire department
at a stated time In the afternoon or
early in the evening of Fire Preven
tion Day would be highly entertain
ing to the people of the town.
Incidentally the hose and other
equipment could be inspected, the
volunteer company especially would
ge practice and the public could see
what the city's Are lighting equip
ment Is. Moreover It would add to
the Interest of the public in Are pro
tection and prevention and be a big
help In making Fire Prevention Day
an event to be remembered.
ANNEX CAFE CHANGES HANDS
The Annex Cafe, which has been
under the jurisdiction of Llndsey and
Cary Wright for several years, was
sold a few weeks ago to Arthur Her
eth and J. F. McCoy, who arrived the
latter part of the week to take charge
of the same. Mr. Hereth owned an
Interest in the cafe several years but
sold out and went back to Indiana.
He returned Saturday to take charge
of the same. Mr. McCoy hails from
Indianapolis. Mrs. Hereth will ar
rive In a few weeks to assist In tak
ing care of the restaurant's trade.
Ths Wright boys figure on taking ,
trip down about Albuquerque ad
Santa Fe, New Mexico, In a week or
two and look the country over. If
tnev nna anytnins? tnat suits tnam
tfcuy may decide - to ,j locate down.,
there. The many patrons of the An
nex will regret to see the Wrights)
give up the management of that
popular "Deanery" but will be glad to
know that Arthur and "Aunt Stella"
will have charge of It In the future.
They are experienced restaurant peo
ple and we hope the business pans
out according to their expectations.
H. M. Forbes, a well known ranch
man living near Arkalon, has this
week purchased six good lots In the
Sunnyslde addition and will erect a
handsome residence on the same In
the near future. Mr. Forbes and
family are good citizens and the
Democrat Is pleased to welcome them
to the city.
EQUITY BUYS LUMBER YARD
The Equity Exchange Association
of this city recently purchased the
lumber yard which Mr. Wilson
bought of Mr. Lampe about two
months ago. The lumber yard will
be moved to Kansas avenue south op
posite the Liberal Machine Shops,
where the Exchange has bought lots
for the purpose of establishing a lum
ber yard, at an early date. Johnson
A. Black, who has been In a lumber
office In the city for several years. Is
to take charge of the Equity yard.
Mr. Black has been long associated in
the lumber business, and Is consid
ered one of the best salesmen In the
west.
?'
Are You Going Away for
Your Winter Vacation...
If so, we sell Travelers'
Cheques, payable any
where without identifica
tion. -:- -:- -:-
?
First National Bank
LIBERAL, KANSAS
Member of The Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, and
operating under U. S. Government supervision and control.
