Winculn
tedder.
wcwtttp
VOLUME 24
TOLEDO, LINCOLN COUNTY, OREGON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6th, 1916.
NUMBER 33
NEWPORT along. As Mr. Hughes says,
r. "We want to stand square
The Ahwaneda, Captain Morse 0 tne worm and t0 be abie and
has gone down the coast to willing to take care of ourselves.
Marshfield, Bandon and finally The play put on at the Mid
to Mexico to be gone allWinter. way Theatre Tuesday by the
- " - , X5H55?Ji:
gineer and James McDonald as iThe titl(J of the play was .Wn0'8
first mate. Mrs. Morse will go!a Fool". Miss Lakin was the
later and Join her husband at old maid; Carl Edwards, Redpep
Marshfleld Per; Mr- Lakin the lover; Miss
T H Fitzeerald manaeer of Ethel Peck, the young maid; and
v , S . , i. Dave Lister was Mortgage, the
the West Coast Railroad, has rich banker, whlle each of the
moved his family to Newport performer8 did well it was the
and will occupy the Hisler cot- ( oplnlon of the audience that Miss
tage. The chief engineer with Lakin wag th Btar actres8 she
Vila famllv will nlan livn In New- .... ..j u x ...
mi , M C actea me oia maia to penecuuii.
port. The engineer has charge -The audience wa8 not iarge but
of the surveying party that com-, ,t wag attentive and appre
menced to survey the road with datIve The troup w,u play .
It view of getting the lay of the ;Toledo Wednesday evenjng and
land and to make a permanent' then gouth tQ Californla and
location of the road. After th at the prlnclpal cltle8 along
Is done construction work will We wish them success.
commence. Th re are fourteen 1 J Q
persons In the surveying party.
They are fitlng up a nice office FIECLES CREEK
lfifESSS Se 35S J- enjoy the Harlan fair?
Hotel. The building of this road W p ....
Iff HiS SUeti cannot be demonstrated the fruitfulness of
mo'vS unUl hlsS oadCis buS "oil while the industrial branch
movea "" " of our Rcnool also won honors.
CSUyraofhe Ia.ee with you Newport that
WupMwno.nrof must as a county and state ar
t?ansportation till this road Is range to get the uttermost re
iraiibpoi i turn for tne money spent or lev
twrountv will s be rich in led on the people. I believe that
the county will still be ncn in lndUBti'r,ai work la onv 0p-
W thousands of acres of rich tlonal but this should not be es
bays, thousands oi acres oiricu
etabes and'Ssse and wM school work! WaU for IhV city
ISpnort hundred Z dairy cows or high school work? Well many
indtttaoneS tni best sections, are called but few are chosen
of the coast for making cheese. Bring to us of the country the
and butter, besides the bays and " " en1?e!3
rivers abound with fish and the should that be In a modified
th! distance from -Portland -to-epjpyable and a brave effort by
Newport will be one hundred our people. There were exhib
eleven miles or about five hours ,lts within territory bounded by
travel from the former city. For,Mltcbler Hll. Salado, Drift
J. n ilea in Creek. Fieeles Creek. Racks
. ... ..i To.ifl nrpnn Creek. Sweet Home and the
iuu view ui ------- - . . vlkua
The scenery is grand Deyonaais- re. 1 a
Days You'll Never Forget
v i
jmm ccvj mvji
Johnson and Roger V. Loudon ;
Secretary, all of Eddyville ; Assis
tant secretary, jonn Miller or
Newport.
o
ORTON
THE DANVOU oeCtOED
TFtar Roller S'KA.-res'
VsERE NOT WHftTTMEV ,
VJt CKA,CK.0 OP 1Z BS
will be home.
niarence Davis is home from
the Vallev where he has been
The hon nickers have reurned i
home from Corvallis and It I
makes the neighborhood quite i
lively again.
Billie Southwell has moved
his threshing machine up Rock 1
Creek where he will wind up tne
threshing.
The bridce over the Siletz
River at Orton is about half
finished and looks as tho it will
be a dandy.
The homesteaders are ar
riving and it is hoped they can .
get their building done before j
the bad weather Bets in. :
Mr. James Bollie of Falls City
is now teaching school in Dist.
69.
Supt. R. P. Goin made a trip
to the Upper Farm school In
district 69, Tuesday.
Do not forget the basket so
cial and dance which will be held
at th nchool house in district 69
hn the second Saturday, the 14th
all are invited, tnere win oe
good music and a dandy time.
o
UPPER BEAVER
Mrs. G. E. Lewis called on
Mrs. II. G. RhoaCes Thursday.
Julia Brown and brother,
Walter, of Poole Slough, were
guests at the J. U. liuntsucKer
ranch Friday.
J. M. Bowers made a trip to
Newport Friday.
Mrs. J. C. Huntsuclier and
nnnn JampR and Georce. spent
( Saturday with Mrs. Dora Hunt-
sucker returning home sunuay.
W. R. Peterson or the s. v .
bridge crew spent Sunday with
his folks of this place.
Mrs. J. M. Bowers attended
the Helping Hand Club at Ona
Saturday.
Mr. and Mrs. Peter Shermer
and Mr. and Mrs. L. Barker and
dan enters. Hazel and Lola, of
SIX REEL COMEDY
Next Saturday at the Dime
theatre, that side-splitting com
edy, entitled, Tilly's Punctured
Romance, in six reels, will be
shown. Thin is onp of tha host
comedies ever filmed, and you
will be sorry if you miss it. Those
well known favorites of the mov
ie world, Charlie Chaplin and
Marie dressier, nave tne leading
parts. Remember at the Dime
tomorrow evening. Admission
25c and 15c.
"WHO'S A FOOL"
The Nashville Players put on
the play of the above name at
the Dime Theatre last Wednes
day evening, and were greeted
,by a good house. The play was
wen presentea, eacn person por
traying their pail to perfection
ana mere were some unncuit
situations. The splnister sis
ter brought down the house and
certainly made good, in a very
difficult part.
This company is touring tha
county, having shown at Siletz
and Newport before coming
nere. i ney win snow ai rnno
math Saturday night. This
troup pas a number or splendid
actors and will always be wel
come here at Teredo.
There was quite a bunch of
tr, , . . """""i daughters, Hazei ana Loia, oi
Big Elk fair all pronounced the , Poole slough, were guests at the
fair crind. crand and beautiful. r-i m v,,- c,.rio
. . i rrv. n fa nopnpn wprp a. reveiuLiuii. iuio umc me cue j mw.. wm la nu uiuuvuhwu mi, unn u nnrn wpra imiprth hi i
wo for the development of the next year I sincerely hope to see .working with a thresher. fair good, grand and beautiful, H G Rhoades home Sunday,
muntv than any other road in every school within our radius Mrs. Allison and daughters ,tith a large crowd in attend- K D. Martin and I. N. Huye
the west Tillamook and Coos represented by work from the.and son, Frank have returned ance. rspent Sunday at Poole Slouf
rnnntlPft have tneir rauroaas nanas oi our iuir aim uupwm uum a w u.uvvv.
completed f and now the next children-pushing bravely on- School opened in the Black
thine U to build a railroad from ward as the star of progress District October 2nd., with Miss
Portland via Siletz to Newport takes Its way. Another matter Mason of Salem as teacher.
Jnd flnJlly connecting it with that gave us much Mr. and Ml Young Mr
other roads till we have a con- was me animated uueiesi cru.v.- aim i.no. w F Wakefield has his old
4. ' .L n. nf railroad from ed by our visitors especially the Young are enjoying a hunting '.hmi-ft torn (lown Rnd , ettin
Portland to Humbolt Bay.. citizens of Toledo who arrived trip to Grass Mountain, the la- the foundatlon ready for the new
ThP erade on Bald Mountain at Intervals in autos. Among dies went along to cook the one; w. F. says he will te glad
I5S!3n flielv The con- those were: Messrs. Hawkins beans and dry the meat as they new hoU8(J , ,
..."l 1,
Mr. Macee In finishiner his new
barn getting it ready for his
cows. Mr. Magee has a fine
dairy herd and he knows how
to care for them.
W. F. Wakefield has his old
i- nrnm-pHlnir flielv 1 ne con- iiiuoc i.icao.o. Uv...u j --- ---- - - wuen tne new uuusu is coniiue-
ls progressing nneiy. . ,,. iVaVoriAi.i mil Wauerh. r not .allowed to hunt in Ore. 1
tractors will have it compieieu -vr,-"tnn r.ant ha8 rct,
i v isninfVnwmhpr Then and Ye fcuiior. inese gsnue- iiuubiuu uii .v-...-
y theABJ iXTNeZ men were accompanied by their 'from the hopflelds.
nptf will bJ rSod coff- families; and seemeed to enoy, A number of Harlan tea are
?J ? ThU will b ?a mat 5m- every moment of the day. T! e, planning to go to the Eddyville
11 "r ? ih neonle in the stated fact in itself was suffic- fair. If we only had a shorter
Stehem end of the coun y and lent to rejay the managementroad many would attend who
BwSbSrgeneUr. viz.. to get in toucli with our .cannot now dc . so
Inl !SnnnlnxZtoay. ment of the people, for the peo- from Corvallis to spend Sunday a success and for fear the grange
SUTgSuS fgoodVylten; pie by the people". Nlcht WahrT at home she was accompanied , h. d t be enough
ted
R. P. Goin passed through
Little Elk one day last week oa
I1I3 way to visit Turn Tuni
school.
The time Is drawing near for
the Eddyville fair and everyone
is jumping sideways to inane u
Huyette
f.pent Sunday at Poole Slough.
Mr. and Mrs. J. M. uowers at
tended grange at Ona Sunday.
Mrs. K. D. Martin and child
ren visited at the Vancil home
Sunday.
Mr. and Mrs. Peter Shermer
called at the Peterson ranch
Kiindnv afternoon.
Mr. and Mrs. II. G. Rhoades,
and daughter, Hilda. A. Peter
son. P. Vancil, H. G. Weaver, K.
D. Martin, T. Iluntsucker, Mrs.
G. E. Lewis, Mra. I. N. Huyett
and daughter, Vesta, made a
trip to Newport Tuesday.
Johnnie and Gordon Emerson
called at the Peterson ranch
Tuesday.
REPUBLICAN SPEAKING
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 12th
Gu8 Mosher, one of the fore
most and best known men of
Oregon will be In the city next
Thursday and will deliver an
address at the court House in
the evening. Mr. Mosher Is
stuniDlne the state in the Inter
ests of the candidacy of Mr.
Hughes, ana win talk on the is
sues of the present campaign.
The Toledo Male Quartette,
comprising Jesse Daniels, Bert
Geer, Geo. McCaulou and J. H.
Ross, will render several selec
tions during the evening.
The organization of a per
manent Hughes Alliance will be
nerfected on this evening also.
thus putting Toledo on the map
politically.
POOLE SLOUCH
wnianl Iluntsucker made
yip to Yaqulna Wednesday.
by Mr. and Mrs. S. E. Frask and the management has rented the
'son, Victor, and Miss Etta Jor-8tore building near by bo as to
Vlon. 1 ne party tumc
to unit thla makes the
country valuable. It takes a
good deal of money, but the
money Is wen spent u uu 6i"
and waste are allowed. lip to laquina eunwuay. i ",na snorted that R. P. Mc
Much Interest Is being taken , nr. aim . , - s u hoWlngg
1 ll.la Tho aurress Of the V.ElteU Air. ailU lr. n. imuauco r--. - . ..ntloa
" I'"'""-- :V- ...I 1Tr.nr nonvpp SlindaV. " "luill bmu x.v..v.. r-
althe Frask auto coming over lii
(three and one nan nouru.
ibe sure of room enough for all
jthat will be there for there win
sure be some crowd for every
body and their cousins, aunts,
uncles, sweethearts and all nro
ili-'iuiiiu uua na.'-vj n- uniien, w eeimfiii i 01111 un hm
in pontics, me dui.vo o. ..i.. Jn Lincoln ana nentou cuuu iroininir to Ree tne treat exn d t
Republican ticket In the Thl - of thlnRS that grow In the
as well as the state looks bright-, Mr .and Mrs. i os njrkcr a x i i & ..Uve w,re ,f 1, , h hat ow on
er every day. The national ticket so 'sited the Rhoades nome jooBe Mac
a nian calnlne right along. Mr. Sunday.
Hughes by his clear, forclable,
Threshing is finished in tnis
iiugnes oy ui ... miss juim jiuu i u..-v., V'.clnlty, tne grain nas ueen
and patriotic speeches Is making , Walter, were callers at the Hunt- -J, R pave rased Borne fine
friend 3 every where. Seldom BUcker home on Upper Beaver. ' neat K0ng over thl
LITTLE ELK
Summer weather and farmers
are busy with their Fall worK
nniA on tinner Beaver. ' i iiirtv.flvn lm.
has a candidate for the preslden- Friday. When returning they , th cre
ty received sucn great uvauuna 8aw a Ug piacK ucar wmcu nev
frnm the people as he. When he er ran DUt jBt ood upon his
spoke in St. Louis, over 2000 hlnd leRg a,ong Blde of the roa(i
people were to hear him. The and watched them pass they
nvntlnn was tremendlous. The rnn
nnookor wan a. his best. Every i
" . , anlni Mr. ftlllicr anu uuiiKuiei i i ftiru. ami j v-imc i0rce g(ie gnuws aim an. nuu
word was full or meaning i vonnlnn were In our vlcinl- from the hon-fields the first of :,hro nP mimou'ilmm lot everv
said we do not wan . war 1 1 Tue8day ilast weeK. day for side attractions and
rather than sacrifice any or our Emerson frank Casady came home amU8ements so there will be sure
princlpes or Buffer our Jjl onand ffl"?!0" last Friday after two or three. to be fun aml entertainment
to ne uisnoi.o.c". . a months absence. niPntv for vounir and old. Pres
t 14 'IMrt .l.'OV T(l UHPI f 1 11 1, vfl IPni W 1 1 1 I f I III. W 111 LUt VV U . . . t . . ' " ' .
Mrs. Nellie Hall, sister of Mrs.
.T It. Turnldce of Toledo, was
thl wpk the recinitent of a
beautiful Veteran Jewel, pre
sented to her by Unity Rebekah
Lodge No. 8 of llolse City. Idaho,
In honor of her continued mem
bership In good standing for
more than twtnty-ilve years.
Tho Urothers and Sisters of Do
Good Rebekah Iodge No. 70, and
her many friends or Toledo ex
tend congratulations to Mrs.
Hall.
Misses Francel Stanton, Clara,
Ruth and llelga Iarsou, Grace
and Margaret Hart accompnnied
by Mrs. lewls as chaperone,
boarded the train last Saturday
ed word from Buffalo Lemo-i ;'"or,"K jor i-,ik yiy. r...
.hat he will Kurn be there in full Elk City they hiked up Big Elk
CONTINUOUS
PERFORMANCE
Several Greeks formerlv em
ployed on the local section gang
were arrested anu ineci ivionaay
on a charge of bootlegging.
When the case came to trial It
was thrown out of court by
Justice Crosno for lack of evi
dence to convict.
The Greeks as soon as re
leased on this charge were again
arrested on a charge of bringing
whiskey into tin state contrary
to law. This case was tried
Wednesday and it was also non
suited by Justice Crosno.
At present the Greeks ar
again under arrest, til's time
charced with ktnlng n dlsor-
; derly holism. The trial la set for
' to-day at 9 A. M. J. F. Stewart
Is prosecuting and B. F. Jones
of Newport Is defending.
the ground and then there will
be the Better Baby Contest. All
are anxious to know who has the
best baby and to see the medals
and diplomas and the dinner all
are more than anxious to get
some of that and that hot coffca
which will be served free.
The management have recelv
are uuojr wim m-n inat ne win sui'J uu in tun ----- --- , - ,.i
Mr. Miller and daughter of i Mrs. Mary Cline came home!force lde Bnowg a!,d aIIt And ! river several nhes and camped
- 1 .1 aU rf ... lif nnnlll fT Ilia pafllll RlinilllOA
war la to be prepared for it. The wood
Mexican troume wouiu
been Bcttled long ago had the
government been firm with that
neonle. At Vera Cruz was the
time to have shown the strong
HARLAN
tt. 1.. Hathaway and Clifford
time to have Bh0nw";nBu7Z McDonald took a bunch of cat
arm of the government, but the Phllnmnfh lnB, wpek where
president was too timia anu .t . were dellvered (0 0e0
ZuSh we well a fa'df 1 hem jUroVn who had bought them of
and they kept killing Ameri- different ranchers here,
cans untlll we lost more men ChaB. Cator came In from Cor
than were killed In the Spanish- vallls last week. He reports his
American War, and the trouble wife getting along nicely but It
la not yet settled but goes right will be Borne time before she
rnr ar hnol started last Mon
day with Maud Miller of Toledo
weildlng the slick.
Mrs. Magee returned home
from the hospital one day last
week much improved in neann.
Mr and Mrs. C. II. Wakefield
visited friends on Yaqulna last
Sunday.
S. T. Loudon returned from
Roae Lodge last Tuesday. He
says the Pomona Grange was a
success and the Salmon River
fair was more than a succeesB.
ldent Wilson will nresa the elec
tric button promptly at ten A. M.
That will start everytmng mov
ing and it win continue to move
until Thursday morning, and
there will be something doing an
the time. Just one continual
round of pleasure. Now this Is
the last call. Bring well filled
baskets and come prepared to
enjoy the day and stay over to
the masquerade hail wnicn win
be worth while. The board of
directors as elected are: S. T.
Loudon, F. C. Aldrlch, George
out, packing the camp supplies
on their backs. They returned
Sunday walking to Toledo, they
report a line tune anu a scarsuy
of fish.
Dave Williams this week i
brought us In a sample of "Bll-
ijlon Dollar Grass" grown on his 1
ranch between nere anu tew
port. The grass is about five
and a half feet In height and Mr.
Williams says that he has five
acres of It ready to cut. It
makes fine feed for either horses
or cattlo, and gnwB very pro
lific. Gabriel Dahl Is building a fine
new house on his farm near
town.
Mrs. Frederick invites vmi to
l call and inspect the Fall and
Winter hats now on oispiay a:
Fredericks Quality Store.
Mr. and Mrs. Claus Ludemann
nrrlvnil mi from Wnldnnrt vpnrer.
Iday, going on to Portland tfcl
I mnmilnfr
Ott Nye returned last evening
from Spokane. Washington,
where he has been the past sev
eral months.
Ralph Pepin of Bend, Eastern
Orceon. was In the city yester
day. He is building several
brklgeB In Benton county.
Chas. Overlander of uppe
, Big Elk was in the city on busi
j ness Tuesday and Wednesday 0
this week.
Mrs. R. A. Anderson am'
(laughter returned from an ex
tended visit at Gresham las.
week.
Mrs. E. R. Junkln came over
from Corvallis last Thursday,
returning Friday accompanied
by ner daugnter in law, Mrs.
Harry Junkln, and children.
Regular meals 35c. commer-,
jclal mealB 50c, meal tickets 2'
meals $5.00 af the Merchant.
