V
' f
WB4TH Kit FOUIirAAT
t 4
Tiilr and I'onllimed Wrn-w To- !
f itnt mill Tomorrow. !
public
4-
f
THR I KIMiKR I aj edrer
tlKlnr medium (hat brfnft re-
iilf. Onr Ttm art rnn.l-l-
enf with rfrrnlatlnn. Try as.
MAYSVILT.E, KENTUCKY. FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1916.
'KKKLf KKPI M.ICAX IM1
tAll rt in : LKlHiKR I
ONXCOPYONB CBNT.
-I
BOOTLEGGER FINED
John Jonert, Arretted by Sergeant
Harry WaM. for Selling UfMV in
Local Option Territory. Hncd
MM Ml Mhltakcr
Yesterday.
ATI koi MP i,or tion
The gentlemen who have been do
rlrot.s of locating a branch farlory of
u fly-nel concern have al hint secured
a location for their manufactory, the
Ohio Valley Lumber Co building on
I'nlon street The machines for the
I - - . , ,..,11
i factory nave ueeu bkiu 101 "
in .-ollce Court yeHtenluy HMM arrlv wlth,n a ,eW dayB "ml W'" Jj
John Jon- as fined $76 .no coat.. "P ,hnt bu,ldl" and w;,,rk W"
Mil HllH to $SO r,o. for HON ll,uor Immediately. The gentlemen at
i prohibition territory Ml un.ble Ml head of the concern are very op. I
to py hi. tine he will spend the next "v"r ,no ,ro"M'cl May8-
eighty O.T1 will. PrtaM Cuurd MMj1 a"'1 """ " '",,0r U''
Clireil, lo lirillK loeir WHOM1 luimij
, here. The proximity to the Mayaville
dill.
i in Tin. ii.iv iifii i'iiiitin .inn' wan an-'
preached by a ma... who aSked him M"' '"ake" 11 T f"r
where he could aecure a bottle of whla- "" ' ",cur" ",a,, rlal for the mnk"
kej. Jonea replied that ho wonld M ln "f th' fl m'u
If he could obtain the corn Juice for
him and later in the evening brought
the man a half pint of whiskey, ehnrg-
rOXCBRTR MIXKR OTIII
Ing him 40 cent, for the same. Officer
Dudley Fizer heard of the sale and In
vcstigatlnii found that MM was li
able to arrest for the violation of the
local option law. He was unable to
f i ltd him Wednesday and asked Sar
i . ant Walsh to be on the lookout for
him. The Sargeant captured him on
Market street Thursdny morning about
f o'clock. Jones refused to testify be
fore Judge Whitaker.
The police have captured a number
Of bootlegger in this city and county
during the past few months and in. ev
ery case have secured conviction
Mootleggers must be rather careful to
get ahead of the local police. Tho
man that sells booze illegally around
here Is getting as scarce as hen's
teeth.
MTtBCM aBAHTIB
The eoncrete mixer of Vastlne, No
lnnd Ixiwery was moved to Bridge
street yesterday afternoon and coti
BflMf Is going on on that street
today. These contractors have been
making excellent progress during the
past three weeks and they should tiw
Ish their original contract by the flrM
of November.
FOUND DEAD
I. dirge Meckel ma ii of Cincinnati, Who
Had Been Working dm MMl in
tl.e Washington School. llles
In Jail Last Might.
In Mason Circuit Court yesterday
Hie following divorces were granted:
Qoorga Stockelman of Cincinnati,
a plasterer at the Washington Con
solidated School, (lied last night In the
county Jnll of delirium tremens.
Stockelman with his brother, Henry,
were taken "sick" while working at
their trade at Washington yesterdav
and were brought to the county jail
BROKEN PLEDGES OF
DEMOCRATIC PARTY
Flayed By Edwin P. Morrow in Speech at the
Court House Last Evening
LARGE AND ENTHUSIASTIC AUDIENCE PRESENT
Broken Down Tariff Policy Scored Wilson's Vascillating
Mexican Policy Also Given "Pitiless Publicity"
Lulu Mattox from It. T. Mattox and . . . . . . , ...
During UM night both were taken wltn
11 IIIII If ' 1 1 I I 1 1 1 L. I I M 11 I I 'Mil I li. (1111 it
Wallingford.
IAKKOLL-IIKST
delirium tremens and George expired
He was found this morning by Jailer
Eltel. The surviving man is in a ser
ious condition.
Rev. A. P. Stahl vesterday married Stockelman was a rather young man
Jihn W. Hest. M, and Miss Hallie J. ab" 36 years of a"e- Thp body
Carroll, both of this county. "8 removed to the undertaking par-
lors of Coughlin & Co. on Market
Have you seen our attractive window street after being viewed by Coroner
display of Ixiose Leaf Kodak Albums? Slack. Relatives of the man in Cln-
o.-.-n J. T. KACKLEY & CO einnatl were notified this morning.
Harbeson Garage
Will Put Your Car in
Good Order For
Fall.
Parts and Sup
plus Cars For Hire
GOODYEAR
Fortified Tires
FORTIFIED AGAINST
Rim-Cute by tlia No-Rlm-Cul tetu.
Slowouti byll.'"(ln Air" CM.
UoiaTrd by ir.inv rubht riven.
In.ecuriiy-I'V 171 braUnl pl.ino win.
Funclmtl and Skidd n - Uy I u duublu-thic-k
All-Weather tread
a
s ti tl r s
ine innny rarmeu
Ionr.o Uio Cud "DqqIqH" Cnr
HGCpO IIIO L ju I uUluU I Ui
UP-TO-THE-MINUTE
FARM MACHINERY
and that's the kind of man we cater to.
The New Peoria Drill is without a doubt
the most complete faun machine of its
kind on the market today, and we want
you to see it. It opens the furrow, drops
the seed at the bottom, and brings you a
better and bigger yield.
Don't forget the name, "New Peoria,"
and that it is sold by
MIKE BROWN
"The Square Deal Man"
The Republican campaign was for
mally opened In Maysvllle and Mason
county last evening by Hon. Kdwln V.
Morrow of Somerset, Ky., G. O. P. can
didate for governor at the last election.
Mr. Morrow was greeted by a crowd ot
about 500 people. A fair sprinkling of
ladies were throughout the adulence.
A large delegation came in from var
ious parts of the county.
Hon. James M. Collins of this city,
a former schoolmate of Mr. Morrow,
introduced the speaker, in a short ad
dress. He said In his talk that Mr.
Morrow's previous trip to Mason
county had cut down a Democratic
majority of five or six hundred to one
of about 25 and this trip would make
the majority Jump to the other side
of the ledger. He also spoke of the
importance of the coming election
and duty of every American voter in
this election.
Mr. Morrow opened his speech as
follows: "1 come here tonight as an
American citizen. I believe I am of
my country. I come In the next place
as a Republican and I am proud of th
fact that I am a Republican. I am
proud of it because you can not hon
estly and fairly write the history of
this country for the last 60 years with
out the history showing the glorious
record of achievement made by Re
publicans. 1 am not here in conteni
tiiat the Republican party has all the
sense or all of the patriotism but 1 am
here to contend that the principles and
policies of the Republicans when they
hate control are policies whlcn in the
pasi have and in the future will bring
to the people the highest amount of
good." He then spoke of the split-up
of the Republican party In 1111 when
the Democrats ran off with the bacon.
Regarding this he said that the two
warring members were now together,
warming their shins before tho sume
lire uml preparing to go forth and get
the bacon back.
Mr. Morrow then enumerated tho
pledges of the Democratic party in
1911 that had either been broken or
completely Ignored, those being, to re
duce the high cost of living by reduc
ing the tariff, to give a saving ad
ministration, to not disturb the in
dustries and commerce of the country,
protection for Americans wherever
they should go and a single presi
dential term, la speaking regardlug
Lht liitter Mr. Morrow said that they
would fullill this and he was by his
vote going to help them fullill it.
Discussing the tariff Mr. Morrow
talked to some length. He stated that
(luring the last 33 moutliB of Demo
cratic administration in spite ot the
war in lOurope, so low has been tin
tariff that $640,000,000 more of for
eign made goods have been dumped
in American markets than during
l lie preceding 33 mouths of Republican
administration and that they have col
lected $238,000,000 less than the Re
publicans. Kvery home In the couutry
is feeling the lack of a protective tariff.
The Republican party has and always
will stand tor protection. He then
graphically pictured the great Repub
lican wall of protection agaiuat the
commerce of other nations and told
how the Democrats had In some places
completely torn away tho wall, in oth
er places made great breaches until
it was now so low that the foreign
made goods, made under fur different
conditions and a much lower wag?
scale than the American laborer could
compete with, were thrown on the
markets of this couutry. He said that
the European War had saved thU
country iustead of the Democratic
party. With the beginning of tbu war
a niagara of gold came from across the
ocean and bought Aniericau-made
goods until the factories of the I'uited
Slates almost clothed, armed and fed
the hall Hug armies of Kurope Tbore
couulrlea could not supply themselves
in. their men Mere lighting and Amer
ica was the uiily salvation. This pros
perity he slated ia being claimed by
the Democrat.
In speaking of the war las he said
It was made necessary to till the empty
coffers of the treasury of this country
He said that a free-trade policy meant
more good from the old country
dumped ou the shores of America anil
1 1. ia In turn meant Idleness bun Ha
told of the army of the lutevploytd
place In speaking of the competition oi
the American hen with the Chinese
hen on account of low tariff, he said
tint since the rooster is the natural
lotiHort of the hen and la also the
emblem of the Democratic party he
thought that he would hung his head
in shame every time he thought of the
dtegTMl ' ''Is wife at having to un
dergo competition with the cniiiese
egg-layer. In his closing remarks
concerning the tariff he stated that he
did not aee how America could be In
the least helped by unfair competition
from other countries.
In dealing with the promise of the
Democratic party to give a saving and
coiiomical administration Mr. Mor
row said that the last two Democratic
congresses had spent $oo,noo,ooo
more not including the army and navy
ppropriatloni than the two preceding
Republican Congresses had spent.
The Mexican question was then
brought skillfully before the peoplt
by Mr. Morrow. He painted a picture
of how Americans had gone to Mexico
only to be killed by bandits and rob
bers and elic ited much laughter with
his intonations of the mHBM of Villa
Madero. Huertu and Carrauza, saying
that the latter name sounded to him
like hot tamales and chile eon came.
He declared that Wilson would not
recognize Huerta although every oth
er court in the world had done so. He
paid a tribute to the negro soldiers
o? the Ninth Cavalry and received
quite a bit of applause at this point.
"It has often been said." quoting Mr.
Morrow, "that l'resldent Wilson kept
us out of war. In reality he has pur
(Continued on fourth paffC
ci in it IALI
The Mason County Hoard of Educa
tion will sell at Public Auction to the
highest and best bidder on
HATTRIMY, NNn 7th.
the school buildings and grounds on
which they stand at Murphysvllle and
Hill Top. Tho Murphysvllle schMil
building will be offered at 9 a m and
the Hill Top at 10 a. m.
4-31 JK9SIR O. VA.N'CKV, Hupt.
VXRH FOR HAM
54 nerea, located In Clermont count .'.
Ohio, hetweeii New Richmond anil
Bethel, with good buildings and
fence.. Rolling land most all of
which is in grass. Address F. V.
Rrannen, New Richmond, Ohio, R. R. 3.
TRUSSES
Today is the last day of discount for
the October gas hills.
OR
See Us About Your Eyes
We give you honest advice, QUAL
ITY SERVICE and SATISFACTION.
Rroken lenses duplicated.
Or. II, Kahn of f iiiciiim.fi on Mondays
lr. ici. rite lie. Ine Kvery laj.
Optometrists and Opticians.
O'Koefe Building.
Complete liM, All prices. We can fit yon. Satisfaction Kiinr
ntd. Wliy pay city prices WtM yon MR gtH the MMM truss
from ns at one-hnlf the eostT
All sizes. Ktibher tip. Best grnde. Sec our line
i M. F. WILLIAMS & COMPANY
CORNER THIRD AND MARKET STREETS
If You Are a Sufferer
From the Heat, Try Our
BIERLEY'S CONFECTIONERY
Creams and. Ices
M Market Street
M rs, Side.
A HANDSOME POBCII
"5 adds immensely to the appearance of
a house and tho comfort, and satisfac
tion of tho n-en pasts. To know how
easily it ran be had Just come and
look over our mill-wutKcd columns,
railings, etc., all so perfectly made and
adjusted that you can put them up
yourself, and the cost is so little!
The Mason Lurnbct Company
Corner Limestone and Second Street.
Phon Sll
A . McLaughlin. L, H. Behan.
THE FALL "DRESS UP" CAMPAIGN
Nation Wide September 30th-October 14th
This is Dress V$ Week the country over. The time when millions of men pause to check up their ap
pearance. Check up yours, too. now.
IMPRESSIONS FIRST OP LAST -COURT KOR MK II IN THIS WOHLII Vour clothes will help or
mar a "Hirst impression" on somebody.
Hut don't don't think the slogan "Dress Up" means frills and rusiness. No sir, that's not the idea. It's
simply this: This is the best time to think of putting aside those clothes that have done summer duty.
Yes, they do look a bit off. Then this is the time to dress up.
Obey That Impulse
We have Sl'ITS that win your favor that are Instantly first choice for style; just the sort to make
you think that this "DRESS UP" idea Ib a good one. 1.", !0.
Dress I'p in new shirts smart tleB fall hats all in vast assortments of styles and colorings decided
Iv correct.
D. HECHINGER & CO.
geafjetJaW A HJl ' ' fla frr" eW
Attractive Draperies
and Curtains
Included are white, ecru and ivory marquisettes and scrims; printed scrims
and marquisettes in various pretty patterns; white, ecru and colored madras; plain
and figured sunfast fabrics; plain and figured fillet and fancy curtain nets. Also
sateens, silkolines and cretonnes in a wide variety and colors.
If you contemplate any purchase in this line, we are sure both our stock and
our prices will interest you. The latter start at 12Mc for pretty silkoline and climb
by slow degrees to $2J4 for beautiful forest tapestry.
f lass HUJN 'l' tt iie
pfrilja nrlh" wJli ' a a' c eaiaaji wmJhr mJtt m rmm Jl Jlf rJlf eatywaaajeaaJlV i Ha4 J
i
Friday and Saturday Only
A Showing of Some
"Fisk" Pattern Hats
and Some
"Millard's" Dresses
in connection with our regular stock of Ready-to-Wear. which
includes Suits and Coats from "Bischof" and our regular stock
of Millinery.
R Z BRO
before the war broke out. In ou
