f Iron County-Record. I
I WITH WHICH IS CONSOLIDATED "THE OBSERVER." I
1 VOLUME XXIII $U0 PER YEAR. CEDAR CITY. UTAH, FRIDAY, OCT. C, 1916. 5 CT8. PER COPY. NUMBER " H
ICALIFQRNIAN SEES
fflMRN UTAH
Is Spellbound by Ucautiful Scen
ery Along State Highway
and Arrowhead Trail.
PAINTS VIVID PEN
PICTURE OF SCENES
II. M. Warner of Coronn, Californtn,
Writes Interesting Article for
His Home Paper.
From "Tho Coronn (Calif.) Courier.)
Among the scenic wonders of
America, one of tho very greatest
has been hidden away in tho moun-
K tain fastness of Southern Utah.
If ' Zion Canyon, although not so
I' ' stupendous in area as the Grand
j Canyon of the Colorado, is said to be
K, as much or even more inspiring in its
I?,: magnificent granduer, and since this
W" , progressive Commonwealth has re-
R. contly built a State Highway into the
W, country. Zion Canyon and its environs
I have come into, tho lime-light for
-- f sight-seeing auto tourists.
i Lund, Utah i8 a small but very
i. important shipping point on tho Salt
i Lako Railroad. It is located in the
' center of the Escalante valley, for
;. many years the winter pasture land
,. for thousands of sheep but now opened
' to Homestead settlement and its entire
area is dotted with the cabins of set-
f tiers who arc endeavoring to carvo out
Ik a farm and home in a wilderness of
Bago brush. Tho land is rich and al
ready making a cretiablo showing at
Jf raising corn, wheat and rye.
4, Thirty-fivo miles south, nestling in
Sl Cedar Canyon at the extreme north
2p end of the Hurricane'mountalns is the
W modern city of Cedar, with a popula-
I' tlon of two thousand souls. Sixty
!JVt miles to the Bouth-east of Cedar, -wind-
w, ing through the rugged and percipitous
jr&ff mountains and located on the edgeof
flko the Virgin valley is tho oldMormpn
i ir town of St. George with a population
2 fully as largo as Cedar City.
I St. Georgo lies on the right bank
ft of the Virgin river which is one of
ifr. the larger tributaries to the Colorado.
i This section of country is in Washing-
J-, ton county and is called Dixie land,
& because of the low altitude (2900 feet
ft above sea level) and its wonderfully
M - mild climate.
m Zion Canyon is tributary to the
V Virgin river a distance of sixty-five
miles south from Cedar City, the only
W gateway by which it can bo ap-
' proached. The State Highway to St.
1 George, (now included in tho Arrow-
head Trail to Los Angeles), has been
W put in very good condition during the
m- past year, and a branch from this
r road to Virgin City, a village close to
R- the rim of Zion Canyon opened up
f sufficient to admit of automobile pass-
iiA ace.
2J ' St. George was settled by the Mor-
fJPv mons more than fifty years ago, and
Wt in many respects is typical of similar
to , sized towns off the railroads in eastern
I states. Cedar City is another old
settlement, but since the Salt Lake
Railroad has been built through to
'" ' Los Angeles the city has enjoyed clos-
t- or communication with tho outside
!' world and is rapidly coming to the
I front as a modern city; while St.
George on tho other hand, fain would
let go from customs and traditions
of the past but seems not to know how
to go about it.
In St. George is located the second
largest Mormon temple in tho state,
an imposing structure built of brick
and stucco, set in a wide expanse of
" lawn and native shrubbery and occu
lt pying an eminence overlooking the
f beautiful Virgin river valley.
I' Be ono a Mormon or of some other
I- religious faith a sunset view from this
I point, of the wide expanse of river
I and valley with hundreds of acres of
Bs vivid green alfalfa fields in tho fore-
I ffrnimd. with tho shimmer of the sct-
I ting sun illuminating the vari-colored
1 mountains and bluffs many miles be-
yond, is a wonderful inspiration to
f one's soul, nnd bound to rejuvinate
one's faith in the marvelous power
I beyond this mundane sphere.
b A few weeks ago tho writer in com-
g pany with Messrs. L. A. Fink and J.
i P. Koy had tho pleasure of taking this
auto trip from Cedar City to St.
' Georgo; out owing to lack of time we
i- were obliged to forgo the joy of tho
& Bide trip to Zion canyon. Leaving
- Cedar City by auto at about 3 p. m.,
wo were soon negotiating the passes
E which lead down through thp moun-
R; tains, a dizzy drop of nearly three
W t'v 'isand feot from tho land of winter
ft si s to the delights of a Southern
m Cfirffiornia climate only Bixty miles
fL- imy; where zero weather is almost
K unknown and the fig nnd pomegranite
, thrivo side by side with Indian corn.
, alfalfa, nil kinds of delicious fruits and
m . creen vegetables all the year through.
I, At this time of tho year the moun-
tains arc resplendent with vivid colors,
ft tho result of Jack Frost's paint brush
upon the deciduous trees, shrubbery
ftj and other growth, the vivid reds, yel-
M lows nnd greens being much more in-
A"' tense than I have over seen in the
i Iowa woods; all of which are inter-
ffi framed with tho sombro growth of
ffc conifer from base to summit
Bk Seven miles from Cedar is Hamll-
KV ton's Fort, a hnmlot surrounded by
K ferUU ferns nnd fat cattlo; in an
i &
BBki,. .... . jML...-
early day this was an outpost of the
hardy pioneers who reclaimed tho rich
valley lands of southwest Utah. Not
far from here are fields of Indian corn
that would do credit to the old corn
states; one field in particular wo tar
ried to investigate; for corn from this
field took tho first prizo at the County i
Fair at Cedar City. It comprises
twenty or more acres and is grown
without irrigation and should easily;
mnko thirty-fivo bushels to the acre.
Winding through a dozen miles of
precipitous, rocky turnpike road along I
the side of tho Hurricane range with
rocky abysses below, and what is
called Black Ridge to our left wo em
erged into another valley where is lo
cated Anderson's Ranch.
Anderson's Ranch comprises some
six hundred acres of rich brick-red
valley land and although only partly
improved it is one of the show places
between Cedar and St. George. Here
ono sees a beautiful mountain homo
with an abundance of pure mountain
water piped into the house and
grounds. Besides corn and small
grain, large quantities of fruits nnd
vegetables are grown, among which
arc cantaloupes, watermelons, toma
toes, muscat grapes, peaches and
plums, which nre distributed by the
truck load ,to less lavorcu poinis w
tho north and along the Salt Lake
Railroad. Wo talked with tho elder
Mr. Anderson, a man at least eighty
years old, who recounted to us some
of tho hardships he suffered during
his early struggles twenty-five years
ago, in which he was a leading spirit
in tho development of these mountain
valleys from rock strewn wilderness
to their present productiveness.
From hero the road leads off to tho
east for thirty miles to the rim of
Zion Canyon. It requires two days
to make this trip which I hope some
day to be able to enjoy. Tho next
place of importance is Leeds, an old
settlement in a narrow valley which
is the beginning of Dixieland. From
Leeds we followed between high rocky
ridges and the mountains parallel
with the Virgin river to tho town of
Washington. It was whilo passing
between these points we looked upon
the most inspiring scenery it has ever
been my fortune to behold. At three
different points, wide rifts in the
rocky ridges opened upon the Virgin
valley, disclosing marvelous vistas of
color more vivid than a Remington
picture. ... .v.
It was our fortune to glimpse these
inspiring nature pictures at a pro
pitious time of Jhe-day.vhQn, the
mountain shadows enveloped us, to
gether with hundreds of acres of vivid
green alfalfa fields in the near fore
ground followed by a rocky grey and
green ridge; beyond, and parallel with
this, a mighty rampant of brick-red
crags lifted their pinaclcs to the full
glare of the sun with the far side of
the Virgin Valley enveloped in purple
mist, followed by a grand climax in
remarkably clear detail of the Red
Ridges, a lofty formation skirting the
far side of the valley and presenting
fantastic shnpes resembling castles
and tables surmounting sheer walls
hundreds of feet high. The color
scheme of these ridges arc in horizon
tal layers reminding one of a gigantic
rainbow stretched out flat; the reds,
yellows, purples, and grays were mag
nificently illuminated by the afternoon
sun, tlfe picture presenting in its en
tirity one gorgeous masterpiece of
high lights, shadows and vivid color.
Washington is a town or. some inrcu
or four hundred inhabitants and is the
pibneer settlement of tho valley. Ono
of tho first things to catch thp eye is
running water everywhere, this being
our first glimpse of the big irrigation
system that carries water to St.
George and encompasses tho valley
with n network of canals, transform
ing what once was a desert wilderness
into n land of semi-tropical luxury
and happy homes. Some day St.
George will get railroad communica
tion with tho outside world; then her
wonderful natural resources, scenic
beauty and salubrious climate will
make of the Dixio country a mccca for
sight-seers and attract thousands of
home-seekers to its ferUIo lands.
R. M. WARNER.
DR. FISHER GIVES
SPLENDID LECTURE
The citizens of Cedar City wero
given a rare treat last Friday nignt
at the Tabernnclo, in seeing the fam
ous Fisher views of America and
hearing Dr. Frederick Vining Fisher,
the noted lecturer, himself in his great
lecturo on America Before the World.
Dr. Fisher won first place in this
nation as a lecturer on America while
at the head of the Department of Lec
tures of tho great exposition of San
Francisco and since then has been
chosen by the leading men of America
forming tho World's Council of Social
Progress to take tho place of Director
of the Department of International
Goodwill.
Tho lecturo was given by him in
ninety-four western cities this last
summer to nearly a half million people.
But for tho fact that ho was ncrc
as the guest of Apostle Ivins, getting
views of Cedar City and vicinity to
add to his official lecture on Utah
which he is preparing, Cedar would
not have had this privilege.
He was obliged to give tho lecture
twice in Hurricnne and three times
in St. Georgo. It wns tho special re
quest of Governor Spry's party and
Apostle Ivins that ho give tho lecturo
hero. . , M . .
Mr. E. II. Brigham, formerly of
DOWNPOUR OF RAIN
DOES 1CHJMGE
Fully Three Inches of Precipi
tation Within Short Space
of Twenty-Four Hours.
SUCH A STORM VERY
UNUSUAL IN OCTOBER
Large Bridges Near Town arc Badly
Damaged, Cellars and Cess
Pools are Flooded.
At eight o'clock this morning tho
precipitation for the present rain
registered two inches. Since that hour
provious to closing our forms on this
issue, fully another inch of water has
fallen, making a total precipitation
for less thnn 21 hours of more than
three inches. At any season of the
year this would be regarded as a very
unusual precipitation in bo short a
time, but coming in the month of Oc
tober makes it all the moro unusual.
As a result of tho rain, which was
probably heavier in the mountains
and canyons than in town, there has
been a prodigious Hood down Coal
Creek, which has swept awav several
of the dams to races and canals, in
cluding that of the electric power
plant, so that the town will be in dark
ness for a night or two, and users of
the electric power will have to sub
stitute as best they can.
Down at the largo bridge north of
town a huge pile of rock and debris
has been deposited in the center of
the creek above the bridge, dividing
tho water which has been flowing in
huge streams on either side of the
bridge. One of the principal currents
has been thrown ngatast the abutment
onahBOUth..8iioof.JejbrJdgeiland
is feared that tho safety of tho bridge
may have been impaired. Since this
was quite an expensive structure, the
damage may be considerable.
Tho break water which was con
structed south of town to m-event the
floods from flowing down Main street
gave way, allowing the water to course
down the street in a torrent, and as a
result a number of cellars and cess
pools arc flooded Among the rest,
the basement of the Cedar Sheep Ass'n
store has a foot to eighteen inches
of water in the basement, and the new
as well as the old cess pool just being
dug for the public library, stand full
of water.
Considerable damage has been done
to streets and roads, both in town and
outside. Traffic is seriously interfered
with and the mails are several hours
behind time.
Many persons are complaining of
leaky roofs, and adobe chimneys have
been melted away like sugar.
Taken all the way around, the storm
has been entirely too terrific for com
fort, and it is hoped that we will not
have another such for a good while.
LUNT-JONES NUPTIALS.
Ray Lunt, nnd Miss Zelma Jones,
two highly respected young people of
this place were joined in the holy
bonds of matrimony at tho St. George
Temple Friday, Sept. 29, and will leave
next Sunday for a mission to Austral
ia. The young people were given a
bundle shower Thursday night, and
wero-the recipients of a large number
of beautiful and useful presents.
Tho groom is tho son of ex-Senator
H. W. Lunt, and tho bride is the
.daughter of Pros. U. T. Jones, both
prominent and influential families.
Tho young couple hns tho best wish
es of Tho Record, both on their matri
monial cruise through life, and on
their voyage to far away Australia,
whero they are to spend tho next
three years of their lives. It will be
tho pleasure of The Record to visit
them each week in their now field of
action when supplied with their address.
Ogdon, Dr. Fisher's official photog
rapher and assistant who was with
him projected tho four hundred hand
painted art views of the scenery, his
tory, peoples, resources and cities of
America on tho screen. Among the
set are some remarkable Panama Ca
nal views and one hundred special
views of Utah. . , . ,
Tho lecture was liberally patronized
and immensely injoyed by those who
listened to the versatile nnd intell -gent
doctor, and admired tho beauti
ful collection of slides shown.
"Tho Secret of the Submarine" is
tho title of a most fascinating serial
story that is running in The Record
each week now and is being shown in
motion pictures at the Thorley Thea
tre each Thursday night. Do not
fail to read this week's installment,
which will be found on tho second
' page.
CEDAR CITY HAS A LOST
MINE LEGEND CIRCULATING
"Tho Lost Mine," has been the sub
ject for many fascinating stories in
vnrious parts of the country, but it
was not until a day or two ago that
Tho Record learned that there wns
nny such story with a local applica
tion, but such seems to be the case.
Not many particulars nre available,
but briefly the story as related in our
hearing is as follows:
Up in the gulch of tho Cedar Can
yon, (we do not know how many miles
from town) it is said that some of tho
early settlers of tho county encoun
tered what appeared to have been the
opening to a tunnel, that had been
carefully rocked up. Tho rocks were
removed, disclosing a long tunnel or
inclined shaft. Through fear, or somu
other cause the opening was only giv
en a very superficial examination, nnd
being in nn out of tho way locality,
did not attract any particular atten
tion until Inst year, when tho repeti
tion of some story ngain attracted at
tention to tho locality. In tho menu
time a pick of a very nntcquntcd type,
from which tho hnndlo had rotted by
long exposure to the elements, had
been nicked un in the locnlitv.
It is snid that some of tho Indians
found in this locality when it wns
first Bottled by the white people had
knowledge of the presence of tho mine,
and one of them had agreed to lead
a party to it, when a skirmish occur
red between tho Indians and whites
in which an Indian was shot, and the
pilot refused to divulge tho secret, bo
that tho presenco of the mine wns dis
covered by chance.
Last year a party of local men de
cided to investigate tho opening moro
carefully, and from information ob
tained discovered the opening, but on
noting that a large bear's track was
pointing into tho opening, and no ev
idence being visible to indicate that it
had emerged again, it was decided to
defer the explorations.
Now interest is being ngain revised,
nnd Dr. Lconnrd and others are plan
ning to fiind nnd investigate the found
ation for tho legends.
WHY MAXWELL HOLDS
SCORES OF RECORDS.
Arrangement of gear ratios in tho
Maxwell 25, plus a high speed motor, I
togctherwithjjamlnimumfc. of motor
conrio'cti(ms",.Lj Csaidi.by.Uho iSfaxwell
Motor Company to account in a large
measuro for the fact that the car of
that nnmo stands out so prominently
in tho nutomobile industry ns a holder
of records of all descriptions. These
records not only include speed tests
of all kinds and over all kinds of
tracks and roads, but hill-climbing
tests, low, intermediate and high gear
tests and demonstrations of economi
cal operation under all conditions.
Recently C. C. Miller, Jr., one of the
Maxwell Motor Sales Corporation's
district salesmen operating on the Pa
cific Coast mode a series of demonstra
tions in San Francisco illustrating and
proving the contentions of the Max
well builders relativo to tho features
which have played so important a part
in making Maxwell history.
One of tho first tests Miller demon
strated was the quick "pick-up" fea
tures of tho Maxwell. Running tho
car at a speed of five miles per hour,
Miller proved in tho presenco of un
biased observers, that within a period
of ten seconds the Maxwfcll could at-,
tain a speed of thirty-fivo miles per
hour. A stop watch was used and this
test was repeated five different times,
using different cars in each instance.
Following this Miller drove tho car
up tho newly paved Twin Peaks bou
levard, making gear changes from
high to intermediate when tho car at
tained a speed of thirty mileB per
hour without a burr or clash of tho
gears. This feature of the Maxwell,
Miller claims, is tho secret of making
speed up hills, because gear changes
may be made without slowing up tho
momentum of tho car, tho gear ratios
being 10.48 to 1 on low, G.21 to 1 on
intermediate and 3.58 to 1 on high.
Tho fact that the Maxwell motor turns
over at a rate of 2,000 revolutions per
minute provides a maximum flexibility
to tho motor which makes possible the
high efficiency of the vnrfouB speeds.
Another fenturo in the Maxwell con
HtninUnn which conserves tho tiower
of tho engine and at the same time
produces a minimum wear on es
sential connecting parts is tho fact
that thero are only three connections
between the motor and tho rear axle
as against four, five, and six in many
cars.
SOCIALIST PARTY TICKET.
Following is a list of tho nominees
of the Socialist Party for county of
fiecB, ns selected at a county conven
tion held in Parowan on Saturday, tho
23rd day of September:
For Representative, Robert G. Pago,
of Pardwan.
Long term commissioner, Clark W.
Lyman of Parowan.)
Short term commissioner, Wm. II.
Barton, of Paragonnh.
County clerk, Jos. G. Stevenson, of
Cedar City.
Treasurer, Isaac Bozarth, of Para-
gonah.
Recorder, Mrs. M. A. Gunn, of Par
owan. Sheriff, C. C. Bladen, of Cedar City.
Assessor, G. A. Gower, of Cedar
City.
Attorney, A. F. Gower, of Cedar
City.
And now tho roads of the county
ouwht to all bo dragged just as soon
as osssible. This will insure excellent
roads for th nxt month or two.
. r
... j Jr - .
B. FORREST TAYLOR
COMPANY PROVES TREAT
A trcnt has been afforded lovers of
the dramatic art this week by tho six
nights engagement of tho E. Forrest
Taylor company, which hns been pre
senting a ropertolr of plnys seldom
equaled by tho traveling troupes that
get this far away from tho railroad
and the centers of population.
Mr. Taylor, tho proprietor of the
show and lending male character, is
an nctor of nntional reputation, both
on the winged nrca of the ordinary
stage and on the great outdoor play
ground on which the mnjority of mo
tion pictures are produced. For two
years Mr. Taylor has been playing
lending roles for ono of the Important
movie companies.
His interpretation of tho various
roles ho hns appeared in hero the pnst
week has boon nearly perfect, and ho
Is supported by a strong company, in
cluding Mrs. Taylor, or Miss Ada Dan
iels, as she is known on tho bonrdB.
The other members of the compnnv
are also abovo nveruge, and tho well
selected repertoire of plays has been
ably presented.
Perhnns tho best bill of tho entire
repertoire, considered from every nn
gle, was "Tho Spendthrift" so nbly
presented Wednesday night. This is
u drama that has a most oxcollcnt
moral and cannot fail to bo attended
with good results. But there have
beon no Inferior plays shown in tho
entire week's engagement.
Tomorrow afternoon there will bo
a matinee at 2:30, and at this per
formance each child is promised a
sack of candy. Tho play advertised
for tomorrow evening is "Peg O' My
Heart."
Mr. Taylor is a most genial gentle
man to meet, and having onco learned
tho trade of printer novor feels bet
ter than when snuffing tho odora of
gasolino and printer's ink about a
printing office. Ho has, therefore,
been a frequent nnd welcomo visitor
to this office. He has a clean, respect
ablo company, and it is a pleasure to
have such people nmong us, 'and wo
feel suro thnt ho will receive a cardial
welcome whenever ho can mako it
convenient to visit us.
SEN. SMOOT GIVES
ADVICE TO WIDOWS
, .Tho,i ollowing.informatlon, ns.ito.tho,
proccduttw'neee'ssajyifor ttvidonei to'
secure benefits of the recent act in
creasing pensions of widows of de
ceased soldiers and sailors of tho Civil
War, war with Mexico nnd so forth,
approved September 8, 1910, is given
out by Senator Smoot, nnd is pub
lished at his request:
If a person is pensioned as tho wid
ow of a soldier, sailor, or marine, who
served in the Civil War, .and who was
his lawful wlto during his service in
snid war, or as tho widow of a soldier,
sailor, or marlno, who served In tho
Civil War, the war with Mexico, or
the war of 1812, and who has reached
tho age of seventy years, Bho should,
if she has not already dono so, write
a letter to tho Commissioner of Pen
sions, Washington, D. C, being care
ful to stato In samo correctly her pen
sion certificate number, tho name and
service of tho soldier, sailor or marino,
tho exact date of her birth, tho placo
of her birth, her namo as it appears
in her pension certificate, and her
present post office nddrcss in full. No
further formal application is neces
sary to secure tho benefits of tho in
crease of pension granted by tho first
section of tho net. If she has reached
tho ago of seventy years on or before
the date of the passngo of tho act, tho
increaso will be allowed from that
date. If, however, she becomes sev
enty years of ago at some time subse
quent to tho passage of tho act tho
Increase will bo allowed her to com
mence from tho date she reaches that
ago.
If tho evidence in her pension case
shows that she is entitled to tho in
crease of pension provided by this
legislation, the Bureau of Pensions
will as Boon as possible grant an in
crease. If further evidence be neces
sary, a call vill bo issued. No claim
ngent or nttornoy will bo recognized
in connection with this matter.
In order to obtain pension or renew
al of pension to a widow whoso namo
was on the pension roll and has been
dropped by reason of her marriage to
another person who has since died, or
from whom she haB been divorced upon
her own application and without fault
on her part, a remarried widow must
file a formal application in tho Bureau
of Pensions. Senator Reed Smoot will
be glad to furnish proper blank upon
application.
If a widow desires to claim ponsion
under the third section of tne act,
which gives a widow, as described in
section 2 of tho net approved April
19, 1908, title to apply for n ponsion
if she married a soldier or sailor prior
to June 27, 1905, (an extension from
Juno 27, 1890), it will ho necessary for
her to file formal application in the
pensions.
Senator Smoot will be glad to furn
ish proper blank upon request and
any further information desired.
Mutual Girls tb Hold Annual Party.'
Tuesday evening, October 10, in tho
library auditorium the West Ward
Mutual girls will hold their annual
opening party.
All Mutual members of tho West
Ward are requested to bo present, and
nil East Ward Mutual girls are cor
dially invited. A special invitation is1
also extended to tho parents of both
wards.
1 j ft&j3LagifcB'4"jMrt
A handsomely designed rug or car- M
pet with good, tasty coloring, is n rent H
treat to any visitor to your home in
fact, it is a real treat to yourself. H
Our rugs and enrpots havo just that H
effect on ovcrybody. Don't fail to sec jl
the beautiful display. Leigh Furnl- M
turc & Carpet Company. Adv. H
There is n talk of n big expedition M
to tho natural bridgo in the canyon H
by local people in tho near future. It H
is a good idea. If our own people jl
knew moro about tho attractions of H
this part of tho country themselves, 1
they would bo in a better condition to B
explain them to strangers when they H
como into our midst. H
James Berry of this place, who also B
has a farm and homo near Kanarra, B
and who after hesitating for a long
while ns to what kind of a car to buy,
remarked in relation to his Studcbakcr
Six this week: "Well, sir, that is one
trade I havo never for ono minute re- 1
grctted. I bclicvo I got tho best car B
on tho mnrkct, and liko it better cv- H
cry timo I drivo it." There aro a lot jH
of others who share Mr. Berry's opin- M
ion, too. Adv. H
Tho weather hns turned considcrn- M
bly cooler tho past week. Thero has M
already been a light frost or two, and 1
flios aro now practically a thing of 1
the past for this season. H
Bishop Pnco of Harmony, who has H
just shipped a nice bunch of lambs 1
this week, was in Cedar Wednesday H
night for tho play. Ho stated that H
his sheep wero in good condition this M
year ana that tho winter ranges aro H
in better condition this season than H
James Bryant, who has tho contract H
for looking after tho swimming pool H
at tho Ward Hall, was taken down H
suddenly with pneumonia last Wed- H
ncsday morning. Mr. Bryant was at 1
tho swimming pool tho night beforo H
and later was called upon by tho city H
marshal to assist in arresting a pair H
of drunks, with whom he had a tusscl H
und got heated up, and doubtless was -
chilled by tho night nir afterwards. H
At this writing he is believed to bo H
progressing favorably. M
LUND. H
Lund, Utah, Oct. 3, 191G. M
Mr. Sam Barton, ono of our mail H
truck drivers, has gono through a ser- H
Ious operation, but unless unforsccn .
.camplicatlon8sdeyelop,..he;'isthoughtgi lEk.-'i -i&aiH
to bo out1 of danger now. Wo hopo xoyf $ H
see him back on the routo again soon, an A 1? H
Lund is building up fast. The Salt "
Lako Routo has juBt erected a new H
ware house to hold all tho heavy H
freight that is handled by this station. H
Tho Lund Commercial club gavo a H
dance and suppor last Tuesday night. H
We hud a houso warming at Mr. H
Lewis's home and danced in tho school . H
house, and, played games around a K
lnrgo bondflro. All had a good time. H
The lunch consisted of chicken sand- H
wlchcs, hot tamnlies 'and coffee. , H
Mr. and Mrs. E. L. Carter and Miss H
Graco Magmusscn, now working, at H
tho Carter hotel, wont over into Ham- H
blin Valley to tho J. S. Grow mino nnd H
spent four days in taking in tho sights H
returning Tuesday. H
Mr. Fred Burkholdcr and Oscar H
Thompson aro hauling lend ore for a H
Salt Lake company from the Arrow- H
head mino. They havo shipped ono H
car load and aro getting another car H
ready now. H
PARAGONAH. H
Paragonah, Utah, Oct. 5, 1910. s M
Tho Misses Leona Jones nnd Maud H
Davenport left Sunday for Cedar City H
where they will attend the B. A. C. H
this winter. Tho party was taken H
over by Bp. Jones and Lon Davenport. H
Mr. and Mrs. ThomnB Edwards are H
rejoicing over Iho arrival of a fine H
baby boy. All concerned doing well. H
Ray Robinson will bo registered in H
the college department of tho B. A. C. H
this winter. Ho left Tuesday for H
Cedar City. JM
Miss Alva Robinson, accompanied H
lur hnr finnrcu. Mr. Dickson, left for M
Salt Lake City Tuesday, whero tho , H
young people will bo united in mar- JM
riagc, after which they will go on to H
Idaho, where thoy will mako their fu- ijH
turo homo. The good wishes of tho ; yQH
community go with them, , Km
I KreZ3
County Superintendent L. J. Nut- ' 111
tall and Musical Director L, J. Adums, , W7
paid a short visit to the school last ' ft-
Tuesday, , Was
THE WEEK'S OFFERINGS 4 1&M
AT TnORLEY THEATRE fgg
Following is tho program of moving J j '&$
picture plays to bo shown at tho , f fflk
Thorley Electric Thcatro during tho i f$
week beginning Monday, Oct. 9, 1910: $?
Monday "Lovo's Cross Roads," 5 , kf&W
reel feature by tho World Film Corp. - , I 23JC
Tuesday Five reels Western play , ; g$j
I by the Universal Film Co. . $ ' 4 Mm:
Wednesday Five reels, Western ,' v- JM
subjects, by tho Mutual company. fm&
Thursday Third eplsodo of "The ? 'M
Secret of the Submarine." y ' p M
Friday, Robert Warwick in Human, J 3M
DireBt Mood," five reel feature by tho T iH
World Corporation. . , x, t' f'JH
Saturday Six reel program by tho i M
Mutual Film company, nB
I Architect Randall KJpnes drove i' t H
I his car through to Salt Lake City the ,JJ
1 first of tho week.
'J
