feir- (Th e O o t) c n Stu n barb, pl 1
M Now York, Oct. 6. Sliver 68 1-4c; JS mj 1 W T f W TV W T WEATHER Utah: Rain Tonight lH
1 lead, $7.007.10; spelter, $'10.00; cop- j and Saturday; Warmer In Southwest
J $ per, $27.2528.50. 1 J Portion Tonight. jH
j 1 ; FEARLbao, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER, IIIZZZZIZZZZZZZZZZ1 fl
I I Fortyslxth Year-No. 240. Price Five Cent.. " QGDEN CITY, UTAH, FRIDAY EVENING, OCTOBER 6, 1916. Entered a8 Second-Class Matter at the Postof flee, ogden, Utah,
1 1 Germany Suing For Peace With Allies; I
1 1 President Wilson To Use Good Offices j 1
lij Vigorous Fighting Continues
Is; in the Balkan War Theater;
Von Mackensen Holding Line
1; :
Petrograd, Oct. 6, via London, 1 :40 p. m. Russian
I ; troops are continuing their offensive against the German
and Bulgarian forces in Dobrudja, it was announced today by
. f the Russian war office, and took some 300 prisoners yester
; day.
; Petrograd, Oct. 6, London, 1 :45 p. m. The Russian
; offensive in Armenia in the district west and southwest of
Trebizond is being successfully pushed, the war office an
: ! nounced today. The Turks are being forced back in the di
; rection of the Karshut river, which runs through Ardasa, about
40 miles southwest of Trebizond and empties into the Black
i sea near Trevoli, five miles west from Trebizond.
While the entente forces holding
,)! the center of the Macedonia remain
If Inert, both flanks continue vigorously
on the aggressive.
Today's report indicates a weaken
ing of the Bulgarian resistance to
the British pressure on the eastern
end of the line beyond the Struma,
Here the Bulgarians have evacuated
Novolyen, which has been occupied by
the British who report a Bulgarian
retreat.
Previous offensive movements by
the British east of the Struma have
not been followed up vigorously. In
the present operation, however, the
British forces have withstood numer
B ' ous Bulgarian counter attacks and the
I '.. consolidation of all the ground gained
M !s now reported.
i ; Sofia Reports Failures.
B ' Sofia again reports the failure of !
rj ? Russian and Rumanian attempts to
j( ' : push back Field Marshal von Macken-
!' sen's line in Dobrudja. The complete
clearing of the southern bank of the
Danube of the Rumanians who recent
:'. ly crossed the river near Rahovo Is
: announced. Attacks by the British on
; the Somme front have gained them
' ground along the Pozleres-Bapaume
road, acording to London's official
statement, A further Inroad was
; made into the German lines northeast
of Eaucourt L'Abbaye.
ri j Only artillery activity on the Fronch
i section of the Somme front is reported
I j in today's war ofice bulletin from
I j Paris.
Iff British raiders have been active in
1 both the Lille and the Lens regions.
K Whether these raids on the German
I line have more than local significance
j is not apparent. In operations in the
1 I Leos and Armentlerres districts, in
I l eluded within this area of activity, gas
was discharged from the British
i trenches.
1 The German crown prince has as-
i sumed active hostilities at Verdun,
- Paris announces. His gunB have
f opened up a heavy fire on the Cote du
l. Polvre, or Popper Hill, north of the
df fortress, while elsewhere in the Ver-
1 1 dun region the artillery is notably
If) busy.
Serbians Pushing Ahead,
j On the western end of the Mace
; donian front the Serbians and their
allies, it appears from the Paris war
: office bulletin, have pushed their lines
' well across the Serbian border direct.
) Iv south of Monastir and are now
:i within seven miles of that city, along
u the line of the villages of Mesdjidll,
I .1 Kenali and Gradeshnitsa.
1 ! General Brusslloff is persisting In
I I his determined efforts to break down
I ;; Teutonic resistance along the south-
1 erly sector of tho Russian front and
i j win the wav to Lemberg. Southeast
I of Lemberg his assaults have resulted
1 ' successfully in several instances, ac-
I v cording to Petrograd.
I ft Rumanian Forces Defeated.
i i Berlin, OcL 6, via London, 4:41 p.
, m. Rumanian forces In Transylvania
i have been defeated by the troops or
a General von Falkenbayn and driven
back over the Alt river, the war office
I announced today.
I i At other points along the Transyl-
I vanla front the Rumanians have been
1 forced to retire.
I The statement says: .
"The Austrian and German troops
J pressed back the Rumanians over the
II Homorod river and drove them from
$ their positions southwest of Liban-
i faIva- . r
rt "The Rumanians are retreating
through Geister forest and are being
I pursued. General von Falkenhayn
i1 has captured 28 field guns and 13 ma
tt chine gun3."
1 Russian Attacks Increase In Violence.
London, Oct. 6, 9:22 a. m. The
f Russian attacks on tho eastern front
J are more violent than any known since
S the start of the war, according to a
I Copenhagen despatch to the Exchange
1 Telegraph company. The despatch
says that near Karytruca and Zubllno
Russian infantry have attacked Ger
man lines for the last thirty-six hours
without cessation. This assault was
on a front of fifty kilometers.
German officers who participated
in the battle on the western front are
quoted as saying that the Russian
bombardment was nearly as violent as
that on the Somme. The Russians
are uBing thousands of cannon and in
a few days the Germans fired 60,000
shells on a very small front.
Bulgarians In Retreat.
Paris. Oct. 6. The Bulgarians on
the Struma front in Greek Macedonia
are retreating before the British, the
war office announced today.
The.text of the statement reads:
"Army of the east: On the Struma
the enemy retreated before the Brit
ish forces.
"In the Cerna region there waB vio
lent fighting along the entire Mesd-jldll-Kenall-Gradeshnits
front (south
of Monastir in Serbia). Our aircraft
report great activity on the enemy's
railway lines."
British Occupy Nevolyen.
London, Oct. 6, 12:20 p. m. The
British forces which recently crossed
to the eastern bank of the Struma
river on the Macedonian front have oc
cupied Nevolyen, it was announced of
ficially today.
The statement follows:
"On the Struma front yesterday and
on the preceding night the enemy
showed no activity. Our troops have
now consolidated all the ground
gained. This morning our artillery
commenced a bombardment of Nevol
yen, but after a short time the enemy
evacuated the town and It was occu
pled by us without loss.
Berlin Concedes British Gain.
Berlin, OcL G, via London, 4:05 p.
m. The war office report of today
concedes that successes have been
achieved by the British forces which
crossed the Struma river on the Mace
donian front. The statement Bays the
Bulgarians have evacuated remote vil
lages on the east bank of the river.
RAID ACROSS THE
DANUBESUCCESS
Rumanians Destroy Large Bul
garian Depots Containing
Large Quantities of
Supplies.
London. Oct. 6, 1:40 p. m. The re
cent crossing of the Danube by Ru
manian forces constituted a success
ful raid, according to a wireless dis
patch from Rome today. The Ruman
ians, says this version of the affair,
destroyed Bulgarian depots contain
ing large quantities of army provi
sions and recrossed the Danube with
out losing a man.
According to the Bulgarian offi
cial reports the Rumanians were bad
ly cut up by Bulgarian forces from
Rustchuk and Tureukai which caught
the invaders between two fires and
compelled their retreat with heavy
losses.
oo
ORVILLE WRIGHT'S PATENTS.
London, Oct. G, 3:32 p. m. Accord
ing to the newspaper Aeroplane Or
ville Wright, tho Dayton, Ohio, aero
plano Inventor, has presented his pat
ents to the British government.
ALLIED FORCES
MEETJEFEATS
Bulgaria Reports the Failure
of Enemy Attacks on
All Sides.
QUIET ALONG DANUBE
Not a Single Rumanian Soldier
Left on Bulgarian Side
of River.
Sofia, Oct. 5. Via London, Oct. 6.
12 noon. All efforts of the Russians
and Rumanians to advance on the
Dobrudja front have resulted In fail
ure, according to an official announce
ment by the war office today.
The statement follows:
"Macedonia: Between Presba lake
and the Vardar the situation is un
changed. At some points there was
vigorous artillery activity. East of the
Vardar there is quiet and the situa
tion at the foot of the Belaschit sea
mountains is unchanged. Enemy ar
tillery unsucessfully shelled the sta
tion of Porop but was soon silenced
by our guns.
"Struma front: Attempts of an
enemy battalion, under cover of artil
lery, "infantry and machine gun fire,
to advance from Orljak bridgehead to
ward Nevolyen village failed before
our fire.
Rumanians Driven Back.
"Rumanian front: There is quiet
along the Danube. The enemy land
ing operations near Rahovo village
village was completely surprised.
There is not a single Rumanian sol
dier on our side of the river. In the
Dobrudja all efforts of the enemy to
advance toward our position on the
Karabodza-Sofullar -Amzatzia-Pervele
line were frustrated by our counter
atack. Several enemy attacks also
failed. On the remainder of the front
there was vigorous artillery activity.
"Black sea coast: Our seaplanes at
tacked an enemy war vessel off Man
gatia and forced it to beat a hasty
retreat There was quiet on the
Aegean coast,"
RUSSIAN TROOPS
MAKEJEADWAY
Capture Austro-German Po
sitions on Galician Front
Meet Check in North.
Petrograd, Oct. 6, via London, 1:45
p. m. Russian troops have made
headway on tho Galician front in
their campaign for Lemberg, accord
ing to today's war announcement,
capturing Austro-German positions In
the district south of Brzezany. south
east of the Galician capital. Counter
attacks are holding up tho Russian
offensive along tho line of tho north.
The official statement reads:
i "Western front: In the direction of
Zlochoff (forty miles east of Lem
berg) in the region of Peniaki (south
of Brody) Gugolovace and Mlynovce
battles arc proceedings. The enemy
Is obstinately resisting our offensive
by making counter ateacks. Wo took
prisoner 15 officers, two surgeons and
522 men.
"In tho region south of Brzezany
our troops captured some enemy positions."
WYOMING RIFLE
TEAM TO START
Cheyenne, Wyo., Oct. 6. Members
of the Wyoming civilian rifle team
which will compete in the annual na
tional shoot under the auspices of the
federal war department at Jackson
ville, Pla., began to arrive hero today.
A captain will be elected tomorrow
and the team will start for Florida
Sunday. Thirteen men thus far have
been chosen for the team.
BRINGS
MESSAGE
Ambassador Bearer of
Appeal for Close of
War in Europe.
New York, Oct. 6. The New York
Evening Post today publishes an edi
torial saying inai n nas Deen learned
from a trustworthy source that Am
bassador James Gerard, now on his
way back from Germany, will lay be
fore President Wilson a request that
the president use his good offices in
suing for peace with the allies.
"Germany has definitely decided to
apply to President Wilson," the arti
cle reads, "to use his good offices In
suing for peace with the allies. This
was learned today from sources in a
position, to. haeabsolutely trust
worthy Information on ttiese matters.
"It is understood that Ambassador
James W. Gerard, who is on his way
over here, will lay the kaiser's re
quest before President Wilson within
a week. It is a fact, how
ever positively It may be denied of
ficially, that the possibility of Presi
dent Wilson acting as mediator has
been discussed by German officials
with Ambassador Gerard. It is, there
fore, by no means surprising that the
reports now take definite shape in
connection with Mr. Gerard's trip to
this country."
Ambassador Gerard is on board the
steamship Frederik VIII due in New
York about Tuesday next.
Officials Deny Report.
Washington, Oct. 6. If Ambassador
Gerard is returning to the United
States on any mission other than to
spend a belated vacation, officials of
the state department disclaim any
lfTinu'lorlpp nf t T'lift Rtntpmpnt hah
been authorized that no preparations
for the discussion of peace through
diplomatic channels have been made
and that all Information gathered
here seems to indicate that such a
move would be inadvisable as well
as futile.
Officials of the German embassy re
ceived the Btory with the emphatic
statement that they know beyond
doubt that It was not true.
BRITISH TROOPS
PUSHJTJRWARD
Lines Advance on Somme
Front Artillery Active
South of the Ancre.
GASES ARE DISCHARGED
Raiding Parties Enter Trench
es in Loos Area and South
of Arras.
London, Oct. 6, 12:30 p. ra. The
British last night pushed forward
their line northeast of Eaucourt
L'Abbaye, on the Somme front, it was
announced officially today.
"During the night was consider
able artillery activity on our front
Bouth of the Ancre," the statement
says. "We advanced our position
northeast of Eaucourt L'Abbaye.
"Gas was discharged by us east of
Loos and east of Armentleres. Three
raiding parties successfully entered
the enemy trenches in the Loos area
and two south of Arras."
oo
GERMANS SHELL
FRENCHJORCES
Poivre Hill and Laufee Wood
Bombarded Artillery Ac
tive on Somme Front.
Paris, Oct. 6, 6:35 a. m. The war
office reports great activity on the
part of the artillery on the Verdun
front. The Germans are shelling
Poivre hill, east of the Meuse and
north of Verdun.
On the Somme front the artillery
was active during the night.
The text of the statement reads:
"North of the Somme tho night was
characterized by reciprocal artillery
activity. In the sector of Quenne
vleres one of our reconnaissance par
ties went forward as far as the en
emy's supporting trenches and bom
barded it with grenades.
"In the region of Verdun there was
fairly great artillery activity on both
sides. The enemy bombarded Poivre
hill and TAUfee wood. In the forest of
Apromont our artillery dispersed a
working party in Mullotc wood."
Reporting tho operations of the
French aviation service on tho west
ern front, the French official state
mcnt issued today says:
"Despite unfavorable atmospheric
conditions our machines carried out
29 flights in pursuit of enemy aero
planes and In reconnolterlng and ob.
serving for artillery purposes."
Two Big Real Estate
Deals and Building
of Large Theater
A real estate deal which, it Is an
ticipated will pave the way to an ox
penditure of approximately $100,000
and the erection of one of the largest
and finest motion picture theatres in
tho west. was consummated yesterday,
when the property now occupied by
tho Ogdcn Electric Supply company
was transferred nominally from Wll
lard Kay and wife to the D. H. Peery
estate. While the financial considera
tion mentioned in the transfer was
only ?1, it is understood that $23,000
was paid for the property by tho pur
chasers. The property, for many years prior
to becoming tho home of the Ogdon
Electric Supply company, was occu
pied by the Read Brothers' harness
factory and store. It adjoins the
Mountain States Telephone and Tele
graph company's building, on tho east
side of Washington avenue between
Twcnty-fourth and Twenty-fifth
streets and has a frontage of 20 feet
and a depth of 132 feet, to Canal alley.
Prior to today's sale, it was owned by
P. B. JohnBton of Twin Falls, Idaho,
who purchased it 10 years ago for
$12,000. The price paid by the Peory
estate represents nearly $1,100 per
front foot, the highest ever recorded
for Ogden real estate on that side of
Washington avenue,
t Whilo the new ownerB have not
fully announced their future plans
with regard to the use to which the
property will be put, It is understood
that a building of two or more stories
will bo erected .on it. The main floor
of this building will bo utilized as an
entrance which will extend under
Canal alley into the middle of the
block to tho contemplated motion
picture theatre.
That tho property was not sold by
Mr. Johnston, who Is a largo owner of
livestock, through a lack of faith in
Ogden's future, was evidenced when
the Idaho man immediately invested
tho money he received in the proporty
now occupied by tho McBeth Plumb
ing company and tho Kennedy restau
rant. This ho purchased from the
Eccles estate and Adam Patterson for
a sum close to $50,000.
I j WORLD SERIES12 M. STDDocE
Senator Harding and I
nator Sutherland I
Are Well Received I
Predicting Republican victory on
November 7, Senator Warren G. Hard
ing of Ohio and Senator George Suth
erland of Utah stirred to a tumult the
Republican assembly that greeted
them in the Weber Academy audi
torium last night, when they declared
that the people of the United States
want a change in national administra
tion and hope by the change to have
the standard of American citizenship
raised to its former high level. They
declared that American citizenship
stock had depreciated In value In the
opinion of foreign countries. They
stated Charles E. Hughes would re
store the honor and Integrity of the
nation lost through a foreign policy
they deemed spineless. They repeat
ed tho words of Roosevelt in the asser
tion that "We want peace with honor.
If we have to fight for it."
Both speakers went into a detailed
discussion of the national issues
speaking of them analytically. Sena
tor Harding attacked the Adamson
eight-hour law. He stated that It was
revolutionary, a fraud perpetrated on
me raiiroaa ijromtjniuuus hiiu wuuiu
not stand the test of the courts. He
said he believed in an eight-hour day
for the worklngman, but did not be
lieve in giving ten hours pay for
eight hours' work. He declared this
situation presented itself in the Adam
son measure.
Senator Sutherland's adress con
tained some reference to the local sit
uation. He told the people not to en
tertain fear as to the outcome of the
election in Utah, that it would go over
whelmingly Republican. -He asserted
that, as the result of a tour of counties
outside of Salt Lake and especially
through the southern part of the state
he spoke authoritatively when he said
the southern counties would roll up
a bigger majority for Hughes than
was ever recorded for any president
In the history of the state.
"Oh. no. You needn't worry about
Utah," Senator Sutherland said. "In
the big landslide four years ago it was
little old Utah and little old Vermont
that alone kept the faith. This talk of
Democratic victory in Utah Is non
sense. This Is the year of Republican
triumph all over tho land. Why,
look at Maine and the recent big
Republican majority rolled up. As
Maine goes, so goes the union. It's
an old saying, but a sure sign. Sena
tor Harding tells me his state will give
Hughes a majority of 100,000. Do you
think all other normally Republican
states will not do the same thing? It
will be the same result a Republican
victory in Illinois, Indiana every
where.
Big Demonstration.
These predictions of Republican vic
tory stirred the audience to a pro
longed demonstration. Loud whoops
could be heard above the thunder of
applause and a large American flag
was given a workout equivalent to
that preceding a charge in battle. It
was apparent that more enthusiasm
existed at the rally than at any pre
vious gathering of the clan in Weber
county.
Whilo the demonstrations were part
of prearranged plans, there, neverthe
less, wero expressions of genuine en- j
thuslasm inspired by some remark
that wa pronounced good Republican Kl
doctrine, or gospel ''H
Almost every seat in the main audi-
torlum was taken. There wore also H
a number of people In the galleries. i
The Young Men's Republican club j
appeared with the largest demonstra- iil
tion. The members of the club, wear-
lng "dunce" hats with Republican j
legends on them, arrived at the assem- i
bly hall after marching through the sil
streets in a torchlight procession, 11
which was part of the program
planned. The marchers carried red
fire along with the torches. The pro- r
cession, marching through the princl-
pal streets, was led by the Ogden city 91
band. J. M. Forristall was the stand- fH
ard bearer, carrying a huge American 'H
Introduced by Mayor.
Mayor Abbot R. Heywood presided
is chairman, introducing both sena- HH
'ors as tho climax to statements con- 11
distent with Republican belief. He
'eferred to both Mr. Harding and Mr. irl
Sutherland as great men and was ap- rl
lauded therefor. On the stage with
Tudge J. A. Howell, John V. Bluth and
lien Miller, state chairman.
The rally last night followed an In
formal dinner in the Weber club at tM
which twelve Republicans, including
the visiting senators, were present.
They were Senator Harding, Senator
Sutherland, State Chairman Miller, jH
Charles R. Hollingsworth, John V.
Bluth, J. A. Howell, N. J. Harris, S.
G. Dye, J. M. Forristall, A. R. Hey-
wood, J. A. Bagley and David L. Stino.
-Mrr-Hollirrgsworth, Judge'Howell " 1
and George Halverson dined with H
Senator Harding yesterday at noon. jM
Mayor Heywood's speech In intro-
ducing Senator Sutherland was pre
ceded with solos by Charles Kent,
the former Ogden resident, who has
been touring the state with Nephi L.
Morris in his candidacy for governor.
Before announcing Senator Suther- IH
land, the mayor stated that the time jH
of the assembly would be devoted
to a discussion of the national issues.
Senator Sutherland. IH
Senator Sutherland, after a few In
troductory remarks, stated that it was
not his purpose to take up the time jH
of the people with a speech especi
ally when the peole had gathered to
hear Senator Harding. He referred
to Senator Harding as a great man
and also a great American. These JM
remarks were loudly applauded. Then
the Utah senator proceeded to analyze 'J
the pre-election situation, making the fH
predictions of victory at the conclu-sion.
Senator Sutherland said in part:
"The paramount issue of the cam
pa! gu, as Mr. Bryan has aptly stated
it, is Wilson has kept this country
out of war.' I would like to say right
here, what country is it that wanted
to fight tho United States? Not one jl
wants war with the United States. YM
There is not on that would not sacri- Ijf
fice much to keep from it Germany
was on her knees to Rumania a year
before tho latter countr ymade her
final decision. Each one of those Eu
ropean countries has her hands full.
and no one is clamoring for war in
( Continued on Page 4 )
Bring 'Em In Early! I
WITH EACH WANT AD. INSERTED IN THE SATUR- I
DAY STANDARD, A TUBE OF EMCHA DENTAL
PASTE WILL BE GIVEN.
If you have something to sell, want to buy something, looking H
for a job, seeking help, want to rent a house or a room, have H
something to trade, looking for something you lost, found H
something and want to return it, want the address of a miss- H
ing person, want a wife or a husband, H
LET THE STANDARD DO IT I
GET ACTION ON YOUR MONEY! FULL VALUE FOR H
EVERY NICKLE INVESTED.
GET THE TUBE OF
EMCHA DENTAL PASTE I
WITH YOUR WANT AD. FOR SATURDAY. H
Emcha toothpaste is an Ogden product, that is why the Stand
ard boosts it. It is a product of the Ogden Wholesale Drug
Company, that is why it is good.
REMEMBER, ONE TUBE OF TOOTHPASTE TO EACH
PERSON WHO INSERTS A CLASSIFIED AD. FOR H
SATURDAY STANDARD.
TO INSURE GOOD POSITION FOR YOUR ADS
BRING 'EM IN EARLY
Ads for Saturday paper will be accepted any time during the H
week. tWe have the toothpaste now.
