r hwhwhbh"""-"--
M m
H vVhen a. Merchant 5Tl V jiiayigi Advertising sB
i comf a ts the conclusion that there la j7 I I y&SffeS4laNN ah fcl l' IleqiiHes Judgment nnd Intelligence ' f
' ,hing he can advertlso he ought to (IK I 11 j '!-3JtlcM m! Mil III III HI to mnko It profitable. Onco you have ffHl
War look c jut the store nnd sec If that Is M. If . I III Sr-Ql3f3tSliilW5) II II started Hunt on vv III find It compar- , jgjH
all .l!, true If b an) system of rra- SZs7 yk- klvf:S7iJ2jLJi3-i & 4v !&v!k' AL' jV nt,r, """ to kl"'" ll BolnB ,n th if BHI
M ni he can rmm1 hlmnelf It Is ' j u1 7""' ' N T rlKhl wn), providing oii have the fZI
B .. I-J as ho believe, then the next PO I iXIfAI IV DCDIIDI l""AIl ground work or )our plan sufficiently HaH
M ',' f r him to do I. to buy some- rULI I IUMLLY, K t KU bSLIOMIM . pnuw ,, ,, ou ,lnXe lh, '-?
iH ihrK Hat ' "or,h ndvcrtlslng Rntered as Sccond-Clas Matter, Juno 4. Hit, at the Postoffke at Price. Utah. CnJer the Act of March 3. 1879. real spirit of success In ) our scheme. i'lEaH
VOLUME 2; NUMllElt 19 EVERY FRIDAY OCTOHER 0, 1910. ISH
1 1 KANSAS CITY
1 STOCKISTS
I Hi-Hi m r.ii'i-s or i5Ku stop
DOWNWAHD TIIUM).
H fn snppl) iiMrnily"Oii Ihcf Oil
H tie I tut htrong On Ceiiinlr) (it-uilc
IH surp mill I4iiiiIm Dec lint el Ma
tt '" Al A" M"kt" ""K"
IH T"t,' n ,'r"11'
H f j in Hpeclal Service
J . NHAH 1'ITV, Mo.. Oct. 2. Light
" pis of cattle lifter Tuiwihty last
. i .. stopped the dowmvnrd tcndcnc)
-U t r s Colorado stock steers sell-
ii ' it sllghtl) higher price Tliur
d Toda) the stippl) Is thlrly-flve
tli ind cattle. Including fifteen
h ired calve, and prices arc slcndy
c beef e-nttlc, strong on countr)
ft Irs, Hlilpmctitit to country points
Mocker and feeders last week
inled to 43,566 head, one of the
I t weeks at this market, though not
a iird OffcrliiKs today contained
0 it ninety cars of Colorado rattle,
r tl Western Hlope, embracing
rllngs, twos and threes to feeder
' era nt IS CO to $7.25, mid horned
k ing steers at $.I0 to $7.00, n few
1 nj killers up to $7.75. Panhandle
crings Included stook steers at $7
17 j0, both rarllngs and ti,
ihes around II I& to country buy
rs stork heifers $7.76. eauner coins
4 5ft to $175 fat four) $0.40 up to
4 2a
ftheep and lambs de lined material-
1 nt all the markets but week, lambs
' King flfls to scvcntWho (cuts.
uns are llbtral toda, twent-flu
i usatul here and prlti are ten to
f 'teen cents lowtr again. lUah lamlm (
c Id up to $9 HO others at 19. SS and '
3 BO, as tompartil with a lop of
'SO riportid from Omaha tiln
I fdlng lambs sold tii to $9 BO Thlr-
t loads of feeding lambs arc imsslng
t' rough here tmln), bought on th
r nge for Missouri parties, l-'at ews
f I at 10 :6 to $ 76 llreedlug ewes
k strong as comiwired with last
rk, being lltiaffei ted b the dei lint
fat stock, range $7.00 to $9.SS. fted.
I i eMS $5 00 to $0 B0
Llogs are one dollar lower llian n
k ago, packers halng suuessful-
' (iiforied their iimiuul break to that
t'fnt lleeelpts wire twelve thoiis.
1 here toda), market flftei n to
I nlj-flie tents lower, top $10 00,
n tomiiarcd with u top 'f 9."i at
' r Missouri rler points, and $10 SB
I Chicago Hulk of wiles $ 10 to
I so toda Onbr Infers mld ten
' ;irs for both light weight lings,
i. 1 medium weights. tHtckers lop
$'t5 Quality does not average as
r Ji as herutofore, average weights
Idler, 174 pounds here last weik.
i ( m:ui. sinivicRs I'oit .
son or M.i'in (H'mhiiwiv
nneriit sirvlies were held In Hie
N tli Ward chapel Katurdn) nfter
t i, K(ilember S3d, for Kph. the
1 ' A mouths old twin son of Nephl
G nlrrson, who died Krlday, Heptem-
- 2:d. at the fainll) home at l'rlie,
til Ix-ltig due to plielimonlil, wis
t Mt I'liasant l')ramld of the S9th.
1 hop Jacobs priMldrd at the fu
ll .al nnd offered (omfortlnK words to
t1" bereaved, as did Hlders Joseph
F' !) and Wllllum Olson who ul ho
K In The ward choir furnished the
m lc The opening pra)cr was de
ll i red by James filaker and the clns
!r. prajer by lllshnp Jacobs, Inter
rr rt was In the Ml I'liasant ceme-Itr
I Ml ItV COl'.NTV r.Xlll WAS
srcvr-ssi'i'i iv am ways
rlday and Hattirdny of lust week
I r 'rj lounty held their first county
f r al Castle Dale, It was a splendid
f ss from start tu finish nnd the
'r t nnd egetnble exhibits were n
t lurkable revelation even to those
71 1 are more or less familiar with
"i resources uf that section The
ti . people have Just completed n
r tratk and fenced the Kroumls and
i" ted a splendid new grand stand.
M ire than three thousand people
' tilled the fair both dn)s and wit
' od the baseball games, bucking
"tf3ts, riuei nnd othir nmiiHements
U h were presented by the manage
""' t A number of l'rlie jieople nt
1 Jid the fair on both ilujs.
'! and wi:m!inj ahi: rio
l'i:K TONHJHT AT HAI.I.Y
""I" democrats of Trice will hold n
' e rail) at ClfivSjall tonight (Krl
rti nt which IthoNspeakeni will be
" V H King Senatorial candl
iJt of the detiuotatlo ticket nnd
H i! M II, Welling, candidate for
1 resa from this the I'lrst tongres
' "al district. Judge King neds no
mr "'uctlon to the people of Price us
T arntor, vv hllo Welling Is said to be
' itnd speaker After the rally there
il be n grand bull to which evrry
' li Invited. Muslo by the enlarged
1 ' orcheitra
I Oil A SIUDDY COMPM'.XION.
Tnke Chamberlain's Tablets nnd
a IH n diet of vegetables and cere
' Take outdoor exercise dally nnd
'sur complexion will bo greatly lm
H -ved within a few months. Try It.
"Ualnaule everyvvhere, Advt
POP: "SAY. FOLKS, WHILE WE WERE FINDING FOUR LEAF CLOVERS SHE GOT A FLAT
TIRE AND ALL THE GASOLINE'S LEAKED OUT."
NHBBBJpfflLn
N'lili'iiiv tu Ho I'iiohiI Oi toiler lltli
II) iludge .liiliiixin.
Si'iitente In the ism of the twelve
members of the muster plumbers' as
sociation who were found guilty of
violation of the antitrust law by a
Jur In the federal court at Halt lnke
fit) Hiilurda) will be passed by Jus
tice Tillman I). Johnson on October
I Ith The maximum p nalty Is one
)enr In the government penitentiary
or n fine of tin thousand dollars, or
IhiIIi The law, in cording to t'nlted
Htates District Attorne) W W Itay.
fixes no minimum pennlt). the sen
tence In the chh depending upon the
dlmrellon of the presiding judge.
The master plumbers who were
found guilt) were Charles J. Illgson,
William K llUhiim, 1'nsler W Jones.
Wllllum I tee. Henry (In en. William
Itosslter, Parley James and I'rnnk O
Cartlie), all or Halt Iiko Clt ; Chris
Irving of Denver, James Macbeth mid
A J Atkln of Ogdeii and John A.
l'ors)tli of Price All of the defend
nuts are members of the National As
smlatlon or Master Plumbers, nnd
w to plniiil on trial Heptember t:th
The case went to the Jury at 1 1C
o'cloik Hnttirdii) nfteriioou The Jur)
dellvired ovir Its verdict for four uud
a hair hours, returning with a verdict
at I) o'clock. All the defendants were
In the lourt room whin the verdict
was nail, with one exception Wil
liam I tecs, who has been III at his
home for several dn)s, whose testi
mony wns taken b) counsel for both
sides .it his bedside In Hut form of
a depotltlou.
In the rendering of Its verdict the
Juri made a recommendation or mer-
O It was said by members or the
Jury that an agrument had been
made nmong the jur) men to come to
lourt toda) for the purpose or mak
ing n concerted appeal to Justice
Johnson for mercy In the cuse, but it
was later decided to abandon the at
tempt "In view of Involving u epies
Hon of precedent and good form"
H. II Crltchlow nnd C. Ilo)e,
counsel for the defenses both declared
that they Intended to ask for a new
trial In the case, mid, If their motion
wus denied, to appeal to a higher
court Three or the, defendants, how
ever, have unnoiinccd their intention
or accepting the sentence or the court,
pnlng their fines and taking their
punUhnient without further defense
MISS J lYM: OAIISWKMj and
i'hwk .vi:itii.i. mahhii:i
At the home of Mr nnd Mrs.
Chnrles Averlll. parents of the groom,
Monday nt high noon occurred the
marriage of their son Krnnk nnd Miss
Ja)ne Carswell t)f Woodslde, Ilev T
II. Zelders or the Methodist elyurch
eff Mating The brlfle was attended
by her mother and Tom Averlll bro
ther of the groohu. Acted as best man.
A number of Invited guests, close
friends of tht)oung couple, witnessed
the ceremony
After the wedding a dinner was
served to the assembled guests. The
new I) weds left on the 1'4B o'olock
train for Salt iJike City, where they
will attend the state fair and visit for
a ahort time, returning o Price to bo
gin housekeeping In a now home pro
vided by the groom.
The numerous friends In Price or
this happy pair wUh them u pleasant
vo)age on the sea of life
REPUBUCANPLATFORM
llcMiliillou ilop(til At the (oiilll)
Convention 1'rlibi),
At the count) convention held Inst
I'rliluy the republicans or Carbon
count) restd nnd adopted the follow
ing resolutions.
Tint republican party or Carbon
eount), In the county eonveiitlou as
sembled, rcallilng that the stability
ii ml prosperity or this government de
pend Inrgel) upon the prim Iples
whle li the republican part) of the na
tion Invoke and earn out mid have
Invokeel and carried out from time
Immemorial. Indorse lxth the national
platform adopted In Chicago In the
national convention nnd the nomina
tion of Charles IS, Hughe or New
Yerk for president and Charles W.
Fairbanks or Indiana for vice presi
dent And nlso Indorse the state re
publican platform as adopted by the
republican convention held In Ogdcn
In August, nnd the inndldates nom
inated on the republican ticket at
said convention.
Itwillrlng also that the benefits that
have accrtit-d to the state or t'liili
through national legislation have been
enforced mid brought about by untir
ing efforts of our two I'nltcd Hlutcs
senators it ml Culled Htiiten congress
men, we heartll) Indorse their nets
mid hereb) pledge our support of said
representatives.
I'urlher rcallilng that prohibition
Is one or the paramount Issui-s eon
fronting the people or the state or
I'tah. und Hint It Is one law ir en
ucled that will result In moro good
to the cllUens or the state or Utah,
and the maintaining or human effl
ileno, than any other one thing; we
ns delegates In convention assembled
hereby reaffirm the state plutform
with reaped to the pledges for pass
ing a law which will prohibit the sale
or nnd traffic In any manner of In
toxicating llipiors within thu slate or
I'tuh
And we nlso hereby pledge to the
veders or Carbon county that the
nominees or thin convention will en
force the laws, both In letter nnd
spirit, with res poet to any prohibition
measure that may Im passed, mid ns
serv tints or the people use ever) effort
looking to the strict c nforcement or
ull the laws upon the statute bonks;
as we believe that If the laws remain
upon the books the) should e en
forced, both In letter mid In spirit
This convention, further realizing
that the prosperity of any community
Is closely allied with that of Its fin
nnclal Institutions, nnd that nuy rec
ognition furnished to these Institu
tions tends tnwnrd the betterment of
the people us a whole, und believing
that discrimination In fuvor of any
particular Institution aids that Insti
tution to the detriment of othe r sim
ilar Institutions, and that discrimina
tion only gives rise to discord und dis
affection, not only politically but
otherwise, mid ft.allilng thel these
matters have no plate In polltTcul
questions and ure Incompatible with
the principles of republicanism
Now, therefore, be It resolved b)
this convention, that we pledge to the
voters of Carbon county that the
nominees selected, who will huve
ohnrge of the funds and inuiios of
Carbon county, shall muke deposits of
ull such mone)s nnd fundi enuully
among the three banks now existing
In Carbon count), and shall draw
from the funds In such banks equally
und proportionate!), jto that no one
hank shall be discriminated ns ugulnst
the other
DR. BEATTV INVESTIGATES
I'phhinlr or 'Opholil IVvcr In Prlcv
Due to Wilier Huppl).
Dr T II Dealt), state health com
missioner, wns In Price Haturda) at
tending the rirst aid meeting and
white here mndu Investigations con
cerning the Dphold fever epidemic
prevalent In Price. Dr. Ilcutly said
the epidemic was caused by drainage
Into Price rver from the towns above
nnd iidvlscd residents of this city to
boll their witter In the future.
Investigation dim limed the fact
Hint the water supply Is polluted, sild
Dr lleatty to a representatlve of n
Halt Uike Clt) paper on Ills return to
.Ion, Water for Price mid several
other towns In Carbon county Is taken
from the Price river nail no steps have
been taken to eliminate disease germs
or prevent a continuation of the pres
ent cureless custom, according to the
slate health of fleer, who declares the
situation serious.
As u temporary safe guard Dr Heat
I) ordered resldentsof Price to boll
their drinking water nnd submit to
Dphold vaccination A meeting of
prominent illlieus was held In vvhb h
Dr lleult) participated When ad
vised or thn cuuse or the epidemic,
the) pledged zculotis support or nny
measure to obtain u pure water sup
ply and promised to take the prelim
luar) steps suggested to minimize the
menace.
I'or several )onrs the state board
or health has pointed out the danger
that exists in Carbon county on ac
count or the cureless method or pro
curing it water supply, but the warn
ings fulled to evoke practical response
until tho dl'easo threatened to sweep
the clt)
THE 01HHI ClOSES
After ii lllg Week of run, I'm lie nnd
I'lisllilloiiH PeiiMlng.
The curnlvul-festlval held In Price
during the past week came to u closo
Saturday night lifter a most successful
week In which the eltlxens or the
town mid surrounding communities
participated Haturday was the big
du) on account or the erowds here to
witness the rirst aid and mine rescue
work put on by the different coal
camps. Taken as v. wjiole, It wns a
huge success financial)), nnd the
church reullted u large sum of money
which will go toward p)lng off the
Indebtedness on tho tabernacle.
There was something different each
night III the wuy of amusements,
those In charge spurlng no efforts In
Hie entertainment or tho putrons The
big event or the week being the min
strel show whbli was put on I'rliluy
night, so tremendous was the hit
made by the performers that It was
repeated Haturda) evening to a much
larger crowd. The vuto for the most
popular lady fur queen resulted In
favor of Miss lluby llr)ner, with Mrs.
II Moer second and Olenna Ounder
son third .
0 real ctedit Is due those who had
the affair In charge, especially the
ladles of the ward, for their untiring
efforts and work In making the car
nival n success. The festivities of the
weeli ended b) a grand bull at the
city hall, paitlclputed In by a crowd
that completely tiled the building,
'music bclnt; flirnlshed b) tho Price
band
FIRST AID AND MINE J
RESCUE MEN CONTEST ' 1
r ' HI
CASTLE GATE TEAM I
GETS TRIP TO ZION ;
Thousands Gather At Price to Watch the Coal 9
Miners In Their Annual Competition Good , H
Showing Made By Every Camp Represented I '
The first aid nnd mine respite day held in Price lust Saturday H
was the biggest event ever nutlctl off in this city. Early in the , H
morning Hpecial trninHCliCKrtfi to arrive from Sunnysidc, Castle H
Gate, Clear Creek, Winter Quarters, Scofield and the camps of the H
United States Kuel company nt Hiawatha, Mohrlnnd nnd Black 4 M
Hawk, as well as from other towns of the county. Many came in i M
by automobile and other conveyances. The Castle Gate nnd Sun- i H
nysidc bands were on the job nnd played throughout the morning, ' v H
the Price bund playing in the afternoon. J H
Winter Quarters NvS won tho Plrst
Aid etmlest between' Die tewinis or the
I'liiti I'uel ciimiyLnUi Hie remark
able percentage or lI.3rt. I'or this
nee ctmpllshnictil they will hold the
beautiful silver loving cup for thn
next )ceir. The presentation wus
made In the dining room uf Hie Havoy
hotel Haturda) evening after the
marking bad been carefully com
puled. The i up wns passed among
the inemlHTs of the either team who
were present, t'lati I'uel officials nnd
others nnd 111 21 was presented to
the I cum for such use an they desire.
Kunn)slde No 1 received second
place in the I'lrst Aid contest with it
percentage of 1(7.13.
Castle date No. - was found In be
winner of the combined I'lrst Aid und
Mine llesciie contest with it percent
age of t3.:& I'or their skill they
each received u gold medal offered
annually by the compan) mid it trip
to Halt Utile to give exhibitions let the
state fair throughout the week.
HiiniDslde No, I was the winner of
see olid plain In the combined events
with the percentage or 90 SO uud the
members or that team are now wear
ing beautiful silver medals offered by
the compan)
In his presentation speech, J, K.
IVttlt, slate mine Inspector, highly
iNinipllmenled the Ihi)r on their ex
cellent work uud commented on the
Interest taken Ho pointed out to the
boys some of the wa)s In which the)
fulled to show originality In solving
the problems mid In bundling the
work st out for them Throughout
the day scores of visitors from outside
the count) und those from home
spoke of tho great vulue or the work
nod the extruordlnnry wu) lit which
It was performed. The Utah I'uel
company wus hlghl) commended for
the aid nnd encourage ment It bad
given the bo)H III the work,
Superintend! nt J H. Thompson and
Chief Kuglueer A. C Walts were In
terested spectators und helped keep
things moving, Tho judges were Dr.
P. V.. Kites of Hlnudurdvllle, Dr T. II.
lleatty or Halt UVe, ntato health
couimlsuloner, Dr. II. J. Ilahllly or
Hillings, Dr. J K Crltchlow, Dr. C 8
Arthur, mid J i:. Pettlt, state mine
Inspector, ull or Halt I-ako J C
Hnow or Castlo Oslo und Oeorgo Con
way or Hunuyslde were time keepers,
W, O. I'orrester, recorder, nnd P, W."
Da) ton or Castle date, unnouiicer, J.
P, Hussell or tho engineer's office or
Halt Iike took several photographs
und rendered much usslstuuce.
Two minutes wus given for the
read -,( the, pnblcm In thn rirst Aid
contest after the signal had been
given to open tho sealed envelope In
which It wus tontulned. The first
event was for one man the time al
lowed being six minutes nnd the prob
lem being "lacerated wound In the
confer or the forehead nnd lacerated
wound In palm uf right hand. Treat."
The vecoucl wns a two-man event and
time allowed, five minutes, the prob
lem being "A enr has run over n pa
tient' left foot, cutting It off at the
unkle Joint There Is severu bleeding.
Treut und carry patient 30 feet by
two-hand seat," Threo men were re
quired for the third event und the
tlmo allowed was IS minutes. The
problem wus "I'lesh torn off back or
left hand, left shoulder dislocated,
compound fracture of left leg below
lenco Treat the case." The fourth
event was for the full team mid fir
teen minutes was allowed for Its per
fnrninuce, tho problem being "Miner
hna been rescued following nn ox
plosion mid has sus tin the follow
ing Injuries Hum m luck of head
and neck, elm pi , a ture or right
leg below knee uu t umpound rrao.
turu or knee-cap of left leg. Treat
and carry 30 reet und unload "
Home splendid rer 'Is were made
the representative of Vlnter Quarters
No 3 performing the work In the first
event In exactly the Blx minutes al
lowed. The average for tho nlsMsams
I wus six minutes und SS seconds. The
second event was performed by Hit , 1 I H
team from Clear Creek In four tntn- H
iiton mid 30 seconds, tho average for H
thn six teams being five minutes and H
let seconds Nino minutes was tho 1
time for Hunn)sldo No, 2, Winter H
Quarter No 3 nnd Clear Creek In H
the third event, tho nverago being H
nine minutes mid SC seconds. Clear H
Creek was also thn fastest In the full , H
team event, the time being 10 mill' ! I' H
utrs nnd SO seconds, with an average iH
of 11 minutes und II seconds. Tho , H
s)s(eui of markings nnd tho manner i' ; H
of deducting points was ton compllcn- M
ted for nn ttmnteur to fathom. ' CiiH
following nro tho teams with their ' H
captains according to position on the i 'l H
field In the i'lrst Aid contest, tho team g EH
expected to occup) position No. 1 hav- 'H7H
log fulled to arrive. VITLiH
No. 2 'Eftsl
Hutlli)slde No. 1 ?iFH
Captain J. W. I.lttlujohn r, H
John Thorpe I' H
James Wilson
William Dunn P.bH
Henry Wilcox (HaH
Ham Cowley fMaH
Winter Quarters No. 3 i H
Cuptuln Horace Hlmpson t t H
Alfred New rem . i lM
Harry I lose C I ,
llnrry Hull ( f'pH
H. C. Ilurvc) kfL'H
Nluk Pettersen I BH
N"' i'fliisl
Hunii)sldii No, 2 f liiH
Caplaln .eph Thomas I UB
Dan lllshop J nH
Ueorge Wells " il'lll
I VI Hunter. I fll
Oseinr Kvaus Villl
Isaac Whlltakrr kflH
No. nH
Cuslle (lata No. 2 vTHisi
Captain Albert Wardell iViH
(leorien Wurdell ZliH
Hrnest I.loyd , a
Duvo Morrison i IH
Harry Mathers ' illI
James Thorpe ' " MH
Winter Quarters No. 2 ,H
Captain Matt flilhur , flH
Tom Mlnuch MH
Valentine Antxak " lfaK
Vincent Illnnnkar , mJI
John lluveu Bl
No. 7 ' MH
CliMtr Creek No, 1 I 3H
Captain J. V. Hnddnw f S
John Hrkllla I .PH
John Herutnppl C t'D
deorgo Hartley & U)M
John llrrlnsou v ', H
W. W. IMwurds 1 ' I H
As near ns possllde to actual Mn M ! . H
dttlons had been constructed for tho .J1, 4
Mine Itescue contest. The smoke E ! H
house was rilled with formaldehyde ' ! Hl
gas so strong that a man without a a aD
helmet could not get within many iff , . HH
feet of the open door. The problem if . bI
roughly stilted was to rescuu a man i HI
following u mine explosion. The man v- ' M
had barricaded himself beyond the 1 H
gasca caused by the flro and the res- i I HH
cuing party had to go through a tun- 'm H
nel, climb over u mine car, pass 31 ! Hal
through the part or the mine where W (Hal
the flro wu burning and where tho .If t Hjfl
gus was deadly and bring tho matt !?, HH
out over thu same route through IV'fHH
i which they had gone In. One of the yH
rescue purty vv as overcoma by tho 'Hi ; Hj
gas Just a the man to bo rescued jjj Hfl
i first The work Involved a complete In ' HH
testing of all apparatus, a checking uji.Hal
up of all material needed far tho iF'rHBl
rescue and for working the way past 1 bHb
the debris caused by the explosion i HH
und a stretcher for bringing out the l)ilDfl
I Injured man If it were needed. The jfjj 1 DHj
i work vva performed rapidly nnd In- Bl I mur
telllgently by the various teams and S 1 HH
was watched with Interests by bun- vH
dreds of spectator not only from W HH
Price but from all over the county, lyp f HH
. Many of the visitor remained over jgfjj s Hal
for the carnlvul In tho evening and ftmm HH
i the Castle Oate band plajed several Iffifi Hal
piece during the day. Early In the 'MrH'! HH
evening the Price band and the Cast! IWiMi HH
(Clato band joined force and gave a Klfr Hal
delightful concert on the court house ill! ft? HHl
I luw n, '" Hal
