The Echo has a
reading circulation
of over 4,000 per
sons who trade in
Leavenwortn. Ad
vertise ana increase
your business.
Vol. 13. No. 40
MONDAY, OCTOBER 9,
FIRE PREVENTION DAY
One Sensible Movement That Deserves
Observation—Practical Observance
Will Prevent Great Loss
We have all sorts of special days set
aside for particular purposes. Mother's
Day, Father's Day and a lot of other
foolish days. Every right thinking
man and woman knows that father's
and mother's day is every day in the
year. The man or woman who does
not honor his father and mother every
day is fit only for treason, sirategems
and spoil, and deserves to be cast into
outer darkness.
In fire Prevention day we serve every
living and moving thing. We have
too many fires. The insurance com
panies are responsible for most of them.
Perhaps not the companies but over
zealous agents who insure property be
yond its worth. If all fire insurance
was abolished by law fires would dimin
ish one-half. The wicked man would
have no object in settiong fire to his
house and ths careless man would take
more precaution to prevent fires.
Still, we can do some good, perhaps,
next Monday if we examine our chim
neys and stove pipes. We can pre
vent fires by removing something from
the stove pipes that was placed too
close during the past summer. We
can caution the children about fire; we
can arrange our fire fighting appliances,
such as hose, buckets and ladders, so
that if a fire breaks out no time will be
lost in hunting something to put it out.
The prudent housewife can do more
next Monday than anybody else be
cause she occupies the home and
knows the danger, expense and incon
venience caused by a fire. If you can
not do the things necessary to do to
prevent fire do not rest until the man
of the house makes preparation against
an outbreak.
No where does the old saw about an
ounce of prevention apply with so
much force as right here. Gov. Lister
adds this in his fire day proclamation:
"And I earnestly urge and recom
mend that on that day all public build
ings, factories and homes in the State
of Washington be thoroughly cleaned
of any rubbish accumulations they may
contain; that wiring and flues be ex
amined for flaws and any flaws found in
them corrected; that fire fiting appar
atus be examined carefully for defects
and deteriorations and placed in first
class condition; that fire drills be held
in schools, factories and other places
where such drills are not regularly es
tablished, and that programs be arrang
ed in the public schools of the state,
and by civic and other organizations to
the end that the widest possible pub
licity be given the subject and real ed
ucational progress made along the line
of preventing fires and fire loss."
CJ. Ellinger Going to California
C. W. Ellinger, a resident of the
Upper Wenatchee valley for the past
twelve years, has sold his place on the
south side of the river to L. W. Cowles,
of Pomona, California. Mr. Ellinger
left for the southern couutry about six
weeks ago and his wife and son will
leave this week to join him. In the
exchange of property Mr. Cowles comes
into Dossession of the 80 acre tract of
land on the south side of the river. Mr.
Ellinger was one of the most progres
sive ranch owners in the Upper We
neatchee valley. We say progressive,
because Mr. Ellinger always endeavor
ed to produce the best of everything:
adapted to this particular locality. He
succeeded, too. His cantelopes and
melons were always in demand, because
they were just a little better. His
vegetables also were the best sold in
this market. He was progressive in
that he introduced newer and better
varieties of fruit. Where he got them
or their name, we do not know, but he
•old the finest grapei that ever came
to this market. His peaches and ap
ple* were unsurp*n«<i. He was a ust-
XLhc Xeavenwortb Ecbo
''"'■■■■ ••'■—■:- . '-.'■-•' ■"■'■".
ful and valuable citizen and we regret
to see him go away.
In the exchange of property he takes
over from Mr. Cowles a handsome
home in Pomona and other valuable
property. Referring to the exchange
of property the Los Angeles Herald of
Sept. 23 has this to say:
"During the last week J. A. Fitch,
Pomona, consutnated three important
real estate deals. L. W. Cowles, Po
mona, exchanged his home at 788
North Carey avenue, together with
property in The Hutchinson's subdivis
ion on Bradford street, for an eighty
acre ranch near Leavenworth, Wash
ington, owned by C. W. Ellinger. The
consideration involved was $12,000.
Mr. Cowles, who will take possession
of the Ellinger place spent some time
here last spring and was highly pleased
with the outlook and the prospect for
future development in the Upper We
natchee valley. With his family he is
expected to arrive here this fall to
make his home.
MONEY HAD TO BE RAISED
TO MEET APPROPRIATIONS
And the "North Pays the freight;"—
Congres Ssaddled the Burden on
the Northern States.
Every reader remembers how the last
congress increased the appropriations
and broke the record by appropriating
almost three times as much as any pre
vious congress ever appropriated be
fore. Read the following congressional
record on appropriations:
"Let the North pay the taxes," is
the slogan of the Democratic Congress,
recently adjourned. And that slogan
was lived up to. Nothing better illus
trates that than the munitions tax,
carried by the Kitchen bill, now a law.
As that bill was originally passed by
the House, it levied a heavy tax upon
the manufacturers of munitions, but
coupled with the munitions tax was a
special tax on the production of cop
per. The theory of the House was
that copper enters largely into the
manufacture of munitions, and as the
copper producers have been reaping
large profits during the past year, they
also should be taxed.
When the bill got to the Senate,
there was an uprising against the cop
per tax. "Why," said the Democratic
senators from Montana and Arizona —
big copper producing states —"should
copper be taxed while steel iron, lead,
zinc and cotton, which enter into the
manufacture of munitions quite as
much or more than copper, go un
taxed?" The question proved em
barrassing, and it took the Finance
Committee three weeks to find the
answer. When the answer came, the
Senate distributed the copper tax to
cover iron, steel, lead, zinc and cotton.
That was a shock to Ihe senators
from the cotton growing states of the
south. They would never consent to
a tax on cotcon, not even on cotton
entering into the manufacture of ex
plosives. So the south, as represented
in the senate, got together, decided to
elminate the entire tax on raw materials,
but to disguise their hand, let Senator
Ashurst of Arizona make the motion in
the senate. This he did, and outwent
the tax on raw materials, including the
tax on cotton from the south, on lead
and zinc from Missouri, and steel and
iron from Alabama. And all that was
left was the tax on munitions, which
are manufactured exclusively in the
north.
"But we must make up for this loss
of revenue in some way," said Senator
Simmons of North Carolina, chairman
of the finance committee. "Sure,"
replied his committee, and straightway
the income tax, 90 per cent of which
is paid in the north and west, was
given another boost.
All of which merely illustrates how
the south, which is in control, manip
ulates tbe present democratic congress.
Tacoma —The Far West Clay Co.
enters the firebrick market with a
product said to be equal to, if not bet
ter, than the standard eastern product.
The Higher Up the Valley You Go the Bigger and Better the Apples Grow
Leavenworth, Wash., Friday, October 6, 1916
TOO MANY FIRES IN TOWN
SAYS THE RATING BUREAU
The Washington Bureau Writes the City
Cleik, Pointing Out Facts and
Conditions
The city having recently been ad
vised that the insurance rates would be
raised in this town because the record
shows that there have been too many
fires the past two years, and that losses
are out of proportion to the premiurr>s
paid, City Clerk Blown recently re
ceived the letter printed herewith,
calling attention to the numerous fires
and what the insurance companies con
sider an unsatisfactory condition of the
means of preventing fires. Also the
need of cleaning up around stores and
business houses is called to the atten
tion of the city authorities. Following
is the letter:
Sept. 30th, 1919.
Mr. A. R. Brown, City Clerk.
Leavenworth, Wash.,
Dear Sir: —Answering your letter of
the 27th inst., will state the conditions
which are insurance wise in Leaven
worth are as follows, as found at the
time of the last insDection. Additional
nozzels were needed in Fire Depart
ment, and a new hose cart for the sev
eral hundred feet of hose found placed
upon the floor of the fire station; also
steps were needed whereby premises
in the mercantile district should be
kept cleaner as regards accumulated
rubbish found upon a number of prem
ises in that district.
These matters were taken up in de
tail with Mayor N. B. Day, and as he
states, he sympathises with the need of
maintaining proper conditions in Leav
enworth. He has the right ideas and
with the proper co-operation we feel
confident that his ideas will be car
ried out.
On the 12th inst our representative
again saw Mayor Day and the latter
refened to his desire to obtain a mu
nicipally owned emergency pump in
order to meet and overcome the ad
verse condition experienced last win
ter when the regular water supply was
interrupted. This pump would be in
lieu of the present pumping facilities
at the Lamb-Davis plant, which are at
present available on the town system.
If Mayor Day desires to bring about
such an arrangement this office, of
course, will not oppose same. On the
other hand we are very glad to co
operate with his honor, for we feel that
his interest in public fire protection in
Leavenworth is an intelligent one.
Upon the visit of our representative
to Leavenworth on the 12th inst he in
formed the Mayor, the City Attorney,
Mr. Mayar the newspaper editor, Mr.
Adams and Mr. Field, that there
would shortly be an advance in insur
race rates in Leavenworth because of
the bad fire record sustained in that
community during the fire year period
which ended December 31st, 1915.
He stated to those people this advance,
applicable to the mercantile district of
Leavenworth, is due to that record and
not due to present conditions in Leav
enworth. Of course if present condi
tions in Leavenworth are improved it
will tend to prevent a bad fire record
in the future. These conditions are
hereinbefore referred to in this letter.
In our review of the situation in Leav
enworth we have noted certain im
provements which have occurred there,
among them the strengthening of the
trestle upon which the suDply pipe is
carried from the regular source of sup
supply for a considerable distance;
the establishment of the connection
above the reservoir with the ditch; and
the extent of hard paved streets, etc.
And we think if the views of Mayor
Day are co-operated with that further
and desired improvement will occur in
Leavenworth.
Yours very truly,
Lee McKenzie.
Miss Rose Shackler, who spent the
past summer with her sister, Mrs. W.
C. Roach, went to Seattle last Saturday
for an indefinite visit with friends, and
later will go to Portland for the winter.
Oh, Ye Bear Hunters, Avaunt
Mr. J. H. Osborne, superintendent
of Leavenworth's public schools, went
up the Icicle river, about three
miles from town, Monday evening
after school closed, and ran across a
bear and killed it. It was about a year
old and weighed approximately 120
pounds, and was as fat as a pig, if that
is a permissible comparison. Every
summer from one to half a dozed bear
are killed by Leavenworth hunters.
Now Mr. Osborne is not a professional
bear hunter but a great lover of out
door exercise and sport and spends all
his spare time on the hills. He is
also something of a dog fancier and has
two or three Airedales and a hound or
two. The dogs accompanied him on
his hunt Monday and had their part in
getting the bear. The proof of
the pudding is in the eating,
says the proverb, and if you want to
see the bear go and ask Mr. Eckhart,
at the Leavenworth market. This is
the third bear this season tho bear
hunters have been out nearly every
day since last spring, there being no
closed season on bear.
60V. LISTER HERE WEDNESDAY
WILL SPEAK IN THE SCENIC
Under Auspices of Kumtux Club—Reform
Measures Will Be the Leading
Topic of His Speech
The ladies of the Kumtux Club are
entitled to the honor of having secured
the presence of the Governor here next
Wednesday. Mr. Lister is a candidate
I for re-election on the democratic ticket
but will devote his time here to speak
ing on good roads and prison reform,
matters in which the women, no less
than the men, take a deep interest.
An effort is being made to have all
the business houses close their doors
during the hour the Governor talks in
the Scenic theatre.
Community Concert at Public
School Building
Mrs. Carter, teacher of music in the
Leavenworth public schools, has ar
ranged to give a series of concerts
during the winter. The purpose is to
secure the cooperation of the parents
and teachers. Friday nite the first of
the series will be given in the High
school auditorium at 8 o'clock. There
is no admission fee. The program
follows:
Vocal Selections - Miss Adams
a "Mighty Lak' a Rose."
b "Absent."
c "I Love You Truly."
d "Who Knows."
Impromptu —Piano - - Schubert
Reading - "How Ruby Played."
Mrs. LeGros.
Violin —Serenade - Ernst
Selected - - Miss Snyder
Congressman Dill Will Speaks
Here Monday
Mr. Dill, we are told, is to be here
Monday next and will address the voters
on the issues of the campaign. Later
announcement will be made giving
the place and the hour when the speak
ing will begin.
Mr. J. B. Best, editor and publisher
of the Everett Herald, by the way,
among the best daily papers in the
state, arrived here yesterday afternoon
on one of his occasional visits of in
spection of a fruit ranch he is develop
ing near this town. He was accompa
nied by Mr. Walter Swalwell, also in
terested in a fruit ranch just north of
town.
Mrs. A. H. Sylvester and little
daughter Margaret, with Miss Mary
Leide, will leave Monday next for Chi
cago on a two month's visit to her
parents. At Spokane they will be
joined by Mrs. W. S. Came, who is
bound for Maine on a visit to her par
ents, and together they will be travel
ing companions as far as Chicago.
If it it furnishings for men The Tog
gery has it. 40"
A FATAL ACCIDENT ON R. R.
TRACK LAST FRIDAY NIGHT
W. H. Studebaker Killed and F. M Ahlin
Badly Injured—Standing on Rail-
Hit By String of Flats
Last Friday night, shortly aftar 12
o'clock, Studebaker and Ahlin, em
ployed in the car inspection depart
ment of the Great Northern, went out
to meet an incoming train and thought
lessly stood on one of the numerous
sidings in the G. N. yard waiting for
the train to come to a stop. It was
dark and both carried lanterns, which
makes it harder to see a dark moving
object unless very near by. The
switching crew had started a string of
flat cars down the track on which they
were standing and hit both men, knock
ing them down and passing over them.
Ahlin had one arm severed just below
the elbow and was severely bruised
about the body and face. Studebaker
had an arm and shoulder blade broken
and was internally injured. Both men
were at once taken to the Emergency
hospital and everything that medical
skill could do was done. Ahlin's lac
erated arm was amputated about two
inches below the elbow joint. Stude
baker's wounds were dressed at once
but in his weakened condition amputa
tion was delayed until the following day.
He was kept alive until Sunday about
noon, when he died. Funeral services
were held in the Methodist church
Tuesday and the remains laid to rest
in the Leavenworth cemetery, under
the direction of the Cascade Under
taking Company.
Mr. Ahlin is slowly recovering from
his hurts but is considered to be in a
fair way to get well. He has been in
the employ of the company for many
years and is considered a trustworthy
reliable man. Mr. Studebaker. came
here from Wenatchee eleven years ago
and had been in the employ of the
railroad company for over nine years.
He was well known and universally re
spected by all who knew him. He
was 48 years old and leaves a wife and
three small children.
Trade Possibilities With Orient
Plans to develop trade possibilities
on a permanent basis with Russia, after
the war is over, have been taken by a
committee of the leading business men
of the city, inspired by reports of Sam
uel Hill, who has returned from a
visit to Russia. Many ships are now
plying between Puget Sound and Vlad
ivostok, handling both war supplies and
general cargoes, and Mr. Hill foresees
great opportunities for permanent trade
across the Pacific, if Seattle business
men and manufacturers take advantage
of their opportunities. Mr. Hill has
endowed a chair in Russian at the
University of Washington, as a part of
his plan for trade expansion.
Several leaders in Washington busi
ness affairs comprise the committee
which will work for foreign trade ex
pansion, both to Russia and to other
foreign countries where there are op
portunities for export of Washington
products, or for goods handled through
the ports of Puget Sound. A. B. Stew
art, of the Stewart & Holmes Co., is
chairman of the committee, D. D.
Fisher, ol the Fisher Flour Mills, is
secretary. The other members include
H. C. Henry, railroad builder and
president of the Northern Life; C. D.
Stimson, representing lumber interests;
E. A. Stuart, president ol the Carna
tion Milk Co.; William Pigott, of the
steel and iron interests, and Charles H.
Lilly, flour and grain,
Notice to Voters.
Pursuant to law, notice is hereby
given that the registration books ol the
City of Leavenworth will be closed to
the registration of voters tweDty days
prior to the General State Election to
be held November 7th, 1916, to wit:
October 17th, 1916. Kindly see to
the matter of registering or you can
not vote. A. R. Brown,
City Clerk.
Our T/-l ing
uv ..uu want
fligh Class printing
at reasonable prices,
come to tlna office.
$1.50 Per Year
Tax Levy and City Budget
The council met in special session
last evening and decided that $10,
--895.80 would be required to pay the
city's expense bill for the year 1917.
This is $1,577.21 less than the 1916
budget, which was $12,473.01. For
1916 the city levy amounted to even
20 mills. This year it is cut to 17K;
mills. Both the budget and the tax
levy indicates that the council has de
termined to ease up on the taxpayer.
The difference is not much, but at
least it is in the right direction.
CHELAN AND KITTITAS
BALL LEAGUE FOR 1917
Formation of a Two County Base Ball
League Discussed at Cle Elum
Last Week
Forest Supervisor Sylvester brings
back from Cle Elura, where he attend
ed a road meeting last week, a story
that will interest Wenatchee valley de
votees of the national game. He sug
gested that in view of the improve
ments being made on the Blewett pass
road it would be possible to form a
two county base ball league composed
of the towns of Ellensburg, Cle Elum
and Roslyn in Kittitas, and Leaven
worth, Cashmere and Wenatchee in
Chelan county. Mr. Sylvestor says the
idea found favor with those present at
the meeting.
Improvements already made on the
Blewett pass road and those now under
way and to be complete 1 this fall or
early next spring, will bring the two
counties closer together because of the
ease of covering the distance by autos
in approximately four hours and a half.
The possibility of forming a two county
league appeals to lovjrs of the sport in
the Wenatchee valley.
FAMOUS WOMAN SUFFRAGIST
WILL SPEAK HERE OCT. 12
Inez Milholland Boissevain—Also Noted
as One of the Handsomest Wo
men in the Country
The Echo has just been advised by
the Congressional Union for Women
Suffrage, at Washington, D. C, that
Miss Inez Milholland, by which name
she is best known to American women,
will be here Thursday, Oct. 12, to ad
dress the women. She is taking an
active part in the campaign of the
women's party against President Wilson
and the democratic national candidates
because of their party's opposition to
nation wide woman suffrage. Besides
being a good speaker and campaigner
she is also noted as one of the most
beautiful women of the country.
Burgess-Rothert
The following item is taken from the
Wenatchee World of Tuesday last:
The marriage of Lester M. Burgess
and Miss Daisy Rothert, both of Leav
enworth, took place at six o'clock laft
evening at the Methodist parsonage,
Rev. Forsythe performing the ceremony
in the presence of a few intimate
friends and relatives only. The young
couple will make their home in Leav
enworth.
For County Treasurer on the Demo
cratic Ticket
A. J. Amos, an old time citizen of
the Wenatchee valley, has filed for
county treasurer on the democratic
ticket and will make an a;tive canvass
for 'he nomination. Mr. Amos lived
iv Wenatchee for a number of years
and eight or nine years ago remoyed
to a ranch near Dryden where he owns
a valuable apple orchard which he is
coaxing into the bearing stage. Mr.
Amos is a good citizen and no one
questions his ability. The burning
question is are there enough democratic
votes in Chelan county to elect him.
The present Wenatchee postmaster
"inviggled" enough republicans to
twice elect him county treasurer, and
Mr. Amos, very artlessly says "What
(was once done can be done af»m "
