TWELFTH YEAR. No. I«
•MNUO AMENDMENT TO STATE
CONSTITUTION.
It bt voted ou November 7, m«.
“As amendment of section 1, article V)
tl IM stats constitution, reladig to me
auiUOcstiou of voters."
" STATE OF WASHINGTON,
OFFICE UK THE SELTIETAIU
OK STATE.
K whom It may concern: In übedhmct
u so set of tne legislature, allowed to bo
operative »about the approval ot
IM governor, entitled as follows: An act
■lOTMlng for the amendment of uoction
111 article Vi of tbe const! utiun of tne
gUM of Washington, relating to me quul
imatlon of voters," there is hereby pub
-o*l*l for tne consideration of the vot
•t of the State of W’ l i.i'iq.iou the mi
nting proposed amen 1 • i>* ; to tho cun
dilution Of »a,d slate:
. CHARTER 127.
IS. b. B. 1 !7>
in oct providing for 'ho amendment of
Mcttoa 1 article VI of t.ho constitution
of the State of Washington, relating to
tho qualification of voters.
Bl it enacted by tbe Legislature of the
Stale of Washington;
Section 1. That at the general election
g bo hold in tnis state ou Ute Tuesday
Mil succeeding Uie first Monday In Nu-
NBbor, ISIS, there shall be submitted to
IM guailfied elector of Uie state, for their
iStglloo and appioval or relation, an
ißondmont to section 1 of article VX of
IbtOeneitituilon of me State of Washlng-
HO, so that the same shall when amended
read oa follows:
ARTICLE VI.
Section L All persona of Uie age of 21
lasts or over possessing the following
OseUfioatlons. shall be entiUed to volo at
bl elections: They shall be cltlsens of the
Dolled autos, they shall have lived in
Ike state one year and in the county nlne
tf days, and in the cly, town, ward or
•mMci thirty days Immediately preced
hg the election at which they offer to
two: they shall be able to read and speak
M English language: Provided, that no
fMoa shall he qualified or entiUed to
lets la (aspect to or upon any quesUon or
ingoWtioa to incur or not to incur any
Wbt or Obligation, or to borrow money or
Wat any bond or obligation, or to ratify
m validate any debt, bond or obligation,
m to authorise the purchase, sale, mor-
IMS or pledge of property, revenue or
heme by or of the state, or municipal
wrpormUon. city, town or district, unless
k addition to the qualifications above
inscribed he or she shall at the date of
ah or her registration be me separate
owaor of, or as husband or wife have
manually title In property upon the lex
nil ot the municipal corporation or tax
log district in which such quesUon or
msWtloa la to be voted apon, and upon
which property a tax has been paid, ui
dull be payable, during me calandar year
h which such quesUon or proposition is to
bovotid upon. No parson shall be denied
tbs elective franchise on account of sex,
Mr shall this amendment affect the right
a franchise of any person who Is now a
M*hdsd elector of this state except In re
mit to questions or propositions men-
MUSS la tha foregoing proviso. Indians
Mt taxed shall never be allowed the elec-
BN franchise. The legislative authorities
mil enact laws defining me manner of
MMrtalnlng the qualifications of voters as
h their ability to read and apeak the
fifjlsh language, providing for me regls
hafiow of voters generally and as prop
•W owners, and providing for punish
■Mt of persons voting or registering in
vMatton of the provision of this section.
Mb t The secretary of state shall
cosos the amendment proposed in section
1 of this act to be published for three
maths next preceding said election In
mao weekly newspaper In every county
tJMMJknrarapper la publiahed tiuough- v
pmd the Senate February 27, ISIS,
nmod the House March 8. 1916.
NOTE BY SECRETARY OF STATE.
The above act filed in the office of the
Mcretary of State March 17, 191% and el
mod to become operative wlhout the
Mpraval of the governor.
1. M. HOWELL.
Sec.hiury of Slate
Taere shall be printed on all ballots
Provided for the said election tbe words.
Tor the proposed amendemqru to sec-
Bob 1 of arlcle VI of the cons'tcllon re
afiag to the qualification of voters."
Against tha propoaed amendment to
moon 1 of article VI of the constitution
Nbotag to the qualification of voters."
la testimony w'inreif 1 have hereunto
M my hand and affixed the seal of ihe
Mate of Washington.
Nnt at Olym-na thlr Ist day o! July.
1111
(Baal.) I. >(. HOWBLL.
_ Secretary of State.
Ant publication Auauat 4. UK. lait
publication. October 17, lilt.
NOTICE OF HEARING UPON PETI
TION FOR DISSOLUTION AND
DISINCORPO RATION.
In the Superior Court of the State of
Washington in and for the County of Okn
ssgao.
In the matter of the dissolution an ddlsln
corporation of the SlmiUtameen Power
Company, a Corporation.
Public notice is hereby given that the
limllkameen Power Company, baa filed its
petition for dissolution and dlsincorpora
oon In the office of the clerk of the 8u-
Plor Court of the State of Washington
and for Okanogan County, Washington,
cn the 17th day of August, Ills, that in
sad by said petition the said Slmllkameen
Power Company represents that it is a
corporation duly organized and existing
under and by virtue of the lawn of the
State of Washington, with Its principal
(tees of business at Oroville, Okanogan
County, Washington: that at a meeting
of the stockholders of said corporation
held at its office in Oroville, Okanogan
county. Washington on the 6th day of
July, 1116 (which meeting was duly called
for that purpose) It was decided by a vote
of more than two-thirds of all of the stock
holders of said corporation to disincorpor
ate and dissolve said corporation; all of
which more fully appears by copy of the
minutes of said meeting, certified by the
president and secretary of said corpora
tion, and attached to said petition as
Exhibit A.”
.That Is is further represented that all
claims against said corporation have been
fully paid, satisfied, and discharged, and
the prayer of said petition Is that said
corporation be dissolved and disincorpor
ated pursuant to the provisions of section
of R. & B. code of the state of Wash
ute. public notice Is hereby given that sain
POntlon will be brought on for hearing be
fore the said Superior Court of the State
of Washington in and for Okanogan coun
ly at the court house In the town of Oka-
JOfan, Okanogan county, Washington, on
«he 18th day of October, 1916. at the hour
of 9:80 o'clock A. M., or as soon thereafter
U counsel can be heard, and that at the
omo and place so appointed, or at an*
otter time to which said hearing may be
Postponed, said petition will be considered
by the Judge of said court and the proper
•W appropriate order and Judgment of
fold court rendered thereon. All persons
mlerMted In said matter, as creditors,
ftockholders, or otherwise, are required to
bo and appear before the said court at the
2">o and place above stated, to present
ttelr objections to the dissolution and
metacorporation of the said Slmllkameen
gjwr Company, If any such they may
~9‘vtn under my hand and the seal of
**ld Superior Court this 17th day of
August, 1916.
MART E. McCLURB.
fJjoHt of the Superior Court of the State
®f Washington in and for Okanogan Coun
publication August 25, 1916.
publication. October 18, 1916.
Saturday, Joe Ashley, Aubrey Mc-
Kelian and Cal Wilson struck out for
•to summit of Mount Chopaka on a
leer hunt. The boys carried their guns,
blankets and provisions sufficient for
•two week’s outing on their backs and
•Her leaving the trail at Chopaka sta
to® Intended to make the climb on
•Jot- Considering that the summit of
JJount Chopaka is some 6,000 feet up
®the air the hunters had a leg taxing
**e before them before they reached
*• hußtlng grounds.
"Ttrnr ■ <l/1 ______
OUK NEXT CONGRESSMAN.
Congressman-to-be Tom Corkery
was a visitor In Orovllle over Sunday
on a gum shoeing tour of the north
ern part ot the district. It is Mr. Gor
ki's intention to visit Oroville and
other towns of the county later in the
campaign with a clash of cymbals and
a flare of red lire. When Thomas
strikes the county on a speaking tour
people should turn out en masse and
hear him, as he carries a message that
all will be interested in. and he has a
happy faculty of expression on the
stump that is not only entertaining and
Instructive, but carries conviction to
the man who has a thinker to think
with. During this quiet and unosten
tatious trip Mr. Corkery was feeling
the pulse of the body politic, and he
lias every reason to feel satisfied with
the discoveries that he made. He found
that public sentiment favored a return
to republican domination, and that he
has more substantial backing than he
was aware of. Personally Mr. Corkery
is one of those congenial gentlemen
who makes a most favorable impres
sion among all classes. Besides his
appealing personality Mr. Corkery is a
fluent speaker, and a man of more than
ordinary ability, splendidly equipped
by legislative experience to fill the of
fice for which he la a candidate. In
congress he would make his presence
felt and soon take a place among the
most influential members of that body.
A young man of pleasing presence,
strong, mentality, with a vim and ener
gy to do things, he would make a
representative in congress that would
be a credit to the state. Mr. Corkery
lias the good fortune to have a very
strong following in Spokane city and
county, the pivotal county in the dis
trict, as his heavy vote in the primary
election goes to show, and he will
come out of Spokane with a very large
majority at the general election. That
majority is going to be very largely
augmented by the vote of the other
counties in the district, for he is go
ing to carry them all with more or less
of a lead. Under prevailing conditions
it requires no son of a prophet to pre
dict his election in November.
If you failed to register before the
primary election do so now. The reg
istration books will continue open un
til the 17th of October.
NOTICE OF SETTLEMENT OF AC
COUNT.
In the Superior Court of the State of
Washington, in anil for Okanogan county.
In probate. Notice of settlement of ac
count. , ,
In the matter of the estate of Jacob
Nvman, deceased. _ . I
Notice Is hereby given that J. A. Black
ler the administrator of the estate of
Jacob Nyman, deceased, has rendered and
presented for settlement to, and filed In
the Superior court of said county and
state his final account as such adminis
trator, and that Tuesday, the 26th day of
October 1816. at 10 o’clock a. rn. at the
com t room of our said superior court, In
the town of Okanogan In said county, has
been duly appointed by our Superior court
for the settlement of the final account, at
which time and place any person Inter
ested In said estate may appear and file
Ids exceptions In writing to the said final
account, and contest the same.
Witness the Hon. K. K. Pendergast,
Judge of the said superior court, and the
seal of said court affixed this 25th day of
September. 1916. mart r McCLURE
County Clerk and Clerk of Said Superior
Court. 9 ~ 30 ~ 6t
NOTICE TO CREDITORS.
In the Superior Court of the State of
Washington, for Okanogan county, In pro
hale. Notice to creditors to file claims.
Ju the mutter of the estate of Alary
Wentworth, deceased.
Notice is hereby given that letters ad
ministrator on the estate of Mary K.
Wentworth deceased, were granted to the
undersigned on the 18th day of August,
lulu, by the said Superior Court.
Alt persons haring claims against salu
estate are required to present them with
,ne necessary vouchers to me at Loomis,
Washington, at the Wentworth hotel,
within one year after the date of this no
tice, or they shall be forever barred.
Hated at Loomis, Wash., this 7th day of
September, 1818.
JOHN M. WBNTWOR 1 11.
Executor for the said estate.
First publication September 15. 1816.
Serial No. 12335—013671.
NOTICE FOR PUBLICATION.
Department of the Interior, U. S. Land
Office at Wutervllle, Washington, Sept. 6,
11 Notice is hereby given that William A.
McAllister, of Oroville. Washington, w-ho
on June 26. 1813. made homestead entry
Serial No. 012385 for NV4NW'A and WV4
Nl3 Vi Sec. 28. town 38, north, range 27 east
Willamette Meridian and on January 21.
1815 made additional homestead entry
serial No. 013671, for and NVi
Iwu section 28, township 38 north, range
■7 east Willamette Meridian, has filed no
tice of Intention to make three year Proof
to establish claim to land above described
before Julia Bussert, United States com
missioner, at Oroville, Washington, on the
17th day o fOctober. 1816. „
Claimant names as witnesses: W. H.
Bragg G. u. Puls, VV. 13. Boggess and
I t McAllister, all of Oroville, Wash.
*• • BKN SPEAR. Register.
First publication September 15. 1816.
Serial No. 9207.
notice for publication.
t lormrtment of the Interior, U. 8. Land
Office' at Watervllle, Washington, August
31 kotlce Is hereby given that Daniel J.
WfiHama of Night hawk. Washington, who
„ jo mo, made homestead
entry se.lal No '09207 for BVfcNß* and
vmas I* c!' section 2. township (0 north,
?!inße 25 east, Willamette Meridian, has
Ihed notice of intention to “'Y^^ve
m-oof to establish claim to the land above
described? before Geo. J.
r '^ m SKL n T e An^ers n re e^.^anaa
Grogan, of Nlghthawk.
Washington. BEN gpEAR Re glster.
Serial No. 07657
notice for publication.
ik*rm r tment of the Interior. U. 8. Land
Offk-e at Watervllle, Washington, Sept.
*• -Jnth'e is hereby given that Edward An-
First publication September 15, 1916.
FROM OVER THE WATER.
Brauishtn, England, August 15, 1916
Editor Gazette:
. A “ 1 Promised to write a letter after
I got to England, here it is. After ieav-
UiK Grand Porks, B. C„ I reported at
Kingston, Ontario, and was there for
two and a half months. Was baking
uuring that time at the field bakery tor
the military camp. About the Ist of
July we left Kingston for England.
Went to Halifax by train and sailed by
the Empress of Britain, which had
about 4.000 soldiers on board. Another
ship, the Lapland, had about 2,500 sol
diers. An English man-of-war, the
Drake, escorted us over.
We had a fine voyage and I worked
In the bake shop on the ship, as they
were short handed. Landing at Liver
pool we got a great reception, also at
all the different cities we passed
through. At London ail gave us a hear
ty welcome. We went on to a military
camp at Shorncllffe, Kent, and were
there for two weeks. Shorncllffe is
about two and a half miles from Folk
stone. which is a big seaside watering
place, one of the finest in the south
part of England. It 1s on the English
channel, and Is a very pretty place.
From the Lees (a big promenade) you
can, on a clear day, see the coast of
France, and when the wind Is favorable
we could hear the big guns at the front
in France. Every day we could see
several hlg English air crafts.
About one week ago the bakers were
transferred from Shorncllffe to Bram
shot camp. 1 am baking here and like
it fine, although we do not turn out as
good bread as the Crescent cafe in
Oroville does, but it is good bread. We
bake at present 75 bags of 140 pounds
each day.
I suppose you wonder how we live
in regards to eating and sleeping. To
day for dinner we had roast beef, pota
toes, green peas, bread and butter and
tea. We sleep in what we call huts,
lumber buildings holding about 20.
Mattresses, blankets and pillows and
everything kept very clean, as we have
daily inspections. We work as a rule
eight to nine hours a day. There are
several small towns around here with
in walking distance, and every even
ing I generally visit one of these towns.
From the time I left Orovllle 1 have
had a good time, plenty of enjoyment,
a pleasant trip and since I have been
in England have enjoyed myself. I like
England fine. It is a pretty country. It
looks Its best at this season of the
year. At Bramshot there are many
pretty groves and walks and lanes in
every direction enclosed by hedges,
which make it very attractive. Some
Jpeople may think the army a poor
place to be, but I differ there. In the
Canadian army, from what I have seen
and experienced so far, a young man
lias no complaint to make whatever.
He gets good eats and plenty of it, and
good places and beds to sleep in. and
good pay; sl.lO a day and board, bed
and clothes, and S2O a month for sepa
ration allowance for his wife. Counting
it all up the majority gets more money
in the army than they get In civil life,
the trip besides and return to where
the recruit came from.
This Is all for this time. I expect to
go to France before two weeks and
will write more. Hoping to be remem
bered to old friends I am
H. F. McDAVITT.
No. 514,907, C. A. S. C. Baker’s sec
tion. Bramshot Camp, England.
OFF FOR THE EAST.
Maj. Geo. Beall, of Tonasket, who,
according to his own account, is entitl
ed to a front seat in the front ranks of
the pecpoers of the northwest, was in
town Saturday and Sunday, leaving for
Buffalo, N. Y„ Monday morning. The
Major says that his father, mother and
grandmother are still living. The Major
evidently comes of an exceedingly long
lived family as he says his grand
mother is 128 years of age, his father
103 and his mother 102. The Major is
no spring chicken himself as according
to his calculation he has topped 7J
years with every appearance of being
able to lov.nd out a century, and then
seme.
The Major claims that he left Winne
peg with a pack train headed west in
1862, arriving on Osoyoos lake the
same year. Col. Kruger was then liv
ing in a small log cabin at the head of
the lake Maj. Beall has continued to
reside in this comity ever since his ar
rival and his i evidence in the coun y
lc antidated only by Ceo Reynolds,
better known as “Tenas George.” At
the time of his advent theie was only
three or lour white men in the entire
upper country. What little gecds were
brought in were packed in on horse
back from Walla Walla.
As the Major has never been east
since he left there some 54 years ago
he is going to have some surprises
when he reaches Buffalo. He does not
expect to recognize any of his old ac
quaintances, even if he should be lucky
enough to find any of them alive, which
is doubtful. The Major expects to
spend the winter in the cast, and the
chances are that he will be so atliact
ed by the swift life in the big cities
that he will never return to the scenes
of his early adventures.
The Major has a startling memory
for dates and happenings of the past.
He is loaded with reminiscences of the
early life on the frontier, when white
men were few and far between, and
time no object when moving about
from place to place on foot or hose
back. He will make the residents of the
effete east sit up and take notice when
he gets going with some of his experi
ences. real and Imaginative, among the
Indians and wilder whites of the wool
ly west.
OROVILLE, WASHIN ITON, OCTOBER 6. 1916
CONGRESSIONAL VISITOR.
Congressman C. C. Dill was a visitor
in town on two occasions this week,
when passing through Sunday to fill
dates elsewhere, and when here on
Tuesday to fill a speaking date. Mr.
Dill met with a cordial welcome here,
for he is everybody’s congressman,
even though elected as a party repre
sentative, and as our congressman he
lias the respect of Uie people irrespect
ive of party affiliations. The only hard
luck this paper wishes Mr. Dill is that
he may be defeated in November. This
wish is not based upon personal
grounds, for if this was normally a
democratic district we know ot no
democrat that we would rather see
elected, but wholly from a political
standpoint. Take the man outside of
the political atmosphere he breaths,
and that sways us all in making selec
tions for office, and he is a most affa
tde and likeable gentleman. It is al
ways a pleasure to rapt him, and we
cun say that he has made an active and
efficient congressman. There is no lim
it to the good luck that we would like
to see come to him as private citizen,
and in a modest way we shall do all we
can that private citizenship and good
luck comes to him in November.
HIGH CLASS ATTRACTION.
Tills ■,'llice had a [ if: sant cull Mon
day .Kin Hugh B. Dr.ljbs, ot SitMlo,
representing "World Brady Made”
film features, and Clara Kimball Young
specials. Mr. Dobbs whs here to make
arrangements for putting the Orpheum
on a circuit including Wenatchee, Oka
nogan and one or two other places to
present the Brady productions, that
are coming to be recognized as the
leading films of the movie world. These
productions are too expensive for a
single house in a small town to pre
sent, and it is only through a combi
nation of the kind mentioned that Mr.
Bartell is able to secure them and the
picture lovers of Oroville given a
chance to enjoy them. These produc
tions are put on by the best stage art
ists, and the films are not old ones
that have gone the rounds, but are de
livered here within eight days after
their production in New York. It is an
experiment on the part of Mr. Bartell
and If the community fall to appre
ciate and support this high class line
of films he will have to give them up.
Among the Clara Kin ball Young spec
ials that will be presented here are
such strong and plays as
"Camille,“ "TTflby,” "iTearts of the
Blue Ridge,” “The Deep Purple,”
“Hearts In Exile” and the ‘‘Yellow
Passport,” plays that the most exacr
ing moiarlist can find no fault with.
HELPING HIS RIVAL.
C. C. Hart, one of the unsuccessful
candidates for the republican nomina-
tion tor congress from the Fifth dis
trict, was in town over Sunday in com
pany with the successful candidate,
Tom Corkery. Mr. Han ran especially
strong in all the counties outside of
Spokane, as he is one of those genial
gentlemen who make friends readily,
and during the campaign prior to the
primary election spent much time
among the voters of the counties con
stituting the district outside of Spo
kane. He also had the backing very
generally ot the country press, as Mr.
Hart is an old time newspaper man,
and a bright one too. and it was
through a fellow feeling among the
craft that the country press stood so
loyally by him. But Mr. Hart is made
of ihe right stuff. He did not sulk in
his tent when defeated in the pri
maries. He came out promptly and in
dorsed the candidacy of bis successful
rival and is using his Influence toward
Mr. Corkery’s election and his Influ
ence will be a strong factor in bring
ing about Mr. Corkery’s election. It
may be added here that ail the other
unsuccesful republican candidates for
congress, and there were six of them
from Spokane, have endorsed Mr. Cor
kery’s nomination and will do all in
their power to secure his election. And
that Is a force that is going to swamp
Mr. Dill at the polls on November 7.
On Friday evening, October 20, the
new brick store building at Riverside
erected by Charles B. Blackwell & Co.,
will be informally opened with a social
dance. The new structure takes the
place of the old frame store destroyed
by Are several months ago, and it Is
one of the most complete store build
ings in all its appointments to be
found in the entire county. Those who
remember the enormous crowd that
attended the opening of Blackwell &
Co’s., new store building at Tonasket
and the corresponding amount of
pleasure in circulation, will be sure to
attend the opening on the 20th, for
about all who were on hand at the To
nasket opening will be there, and those
who missed that event will be anxious
to be among the merry makers at
Riverside.
Mrs. S. C. Mitchell was taken to a
hospital in Spokane Monday for treat
ment. She was accompanied by her
(husband and Dr. Eifner. Mrs. Mitch
ell’s condition Is not considered ser
ious and the trip would not have been
necessary had the new hospital been
ready to receive patients.
Dick Case, who drew one of
numbers in the Colville Indian reserva
tion drawing, filed upon a homestead
on the reservation last week. He went
out horseback some time ago and care
lull} looked over the territory thrown
open for entry and by that means was
enabled to secure a very choice piece
of land.
C. C. DILL TALKS.
Congressman C. C. Dill spoke In the
Orpheum theatre Tuesday evening to
quite a large crowd, and it was evident
from the frequent punctures of applause
that he was talking to an audience that
vv;;.> well Sprinkled with adherents to the
cause of democracy. Mr. Dill is not an
orator, but is a good speaker, and gave
what would be considered a very effect
ive talk from Ills political point of view’.
A candidate cannot afford to develop the
virtue of modesty or he would not be able
to get anywhere nowadays, and hence Mr.
Dill is not wasting any effort to hide ills
light under a bushel. As a campaigner of
the rubber soled variety Mr. Dill is a
smooth one and an indefatigable worker,
and In his public speeches lie is not penur
ious with liis capitals I’s. If there was any
legislation enacted by the lust session of
c Mig'css that Mi. Dill did not have a hand
in initiating or carrying out then he failed
to tell about it Tuesday evening. That Is
part of the game however, and his oppon
ents do not hold any grudge against him
on that account. His u*ter cnees appealed
especially to our Canadian neighbors, as
it Is stated that one in the audience w’as
conspicuous by his applause.
ENJOYABLE LODGE VISIT.
I oast Friday afternoon and evening a
number of the members of the Oroville
lodge of Rebekahs motored over to Loomis
and attended the Okanogan District con
vention of Rebekahs held in that place.
The convention was held in the afternoon
and was attended by members of Uie lodge
from all parts of the county, a party of
three ladies making tlie Journey all the
way from Twisp. Tne session was a very
interesting one as well as instructive. Mrs.
Mabel Coy. of Brewster, w r as elected
chairman; Mrs. Williams, of Twisp. vice
chairman; Mrs. Emma Hendrix, of Oro
vllle, secretary; Mrs. C. M. Brlckbill, of
' ikanogan, treasurer.
In the evening degree work was pm
on by Captain E. A. McMahan's degree
team of orovllle lodge, and those who
witnessed It pronounced Uie work to have
been as perfect as anything of the kind
they had ever seen. The team was made
up of Mrs. Lucy McMahan, N. (J.; Mrs.
Maggie Spencer. V. G.; Mrs. Anna Hare.
I*. N. G.; Mrs. Emma Hendrix, chaplain;
Mrs. Anna Schassberger, warden; Mrs.
A delude Murray, Con.; Mrs. Susan Stoltz,
E. S. N. G.; Mrs. Ella Silvernall. L. S. N
G.; Mrs. Anna Wlckersham, R. S. V. G.;
Mrs. Addle Garnett. L. S. V. G.; Mrs.
Susie Powell, I. G.; Mrs. Florence Taylor,
pianist: Mrs. Maud Hoose, R. S. S.; Mrs.
Robinson, la. S. S.; Mrs. Louise Carrel.
I*. N. G.
J. F. Samson, C. Schassberger, Pete
Sneve and Geo. Bartell took the large
party over in their cars.
The Orovllle contingent cannot say too
much in praise of the reception they re
ceived from the Loomis Rebekahs and the
prodigal hospitality extended. Luncheon,
supper and a banquet late at night were
served by the Loomis ladies. The meeting
of the convention and the subsequent
session of the lodge were most enjoyable
affairs, and all the visitors took home
with them a very pleasant memory of the
occasion.
LINEN SHOWER.
A pretty linen shower for Miss Bernice
Harding, whose engagement to Mr. Joe
Hoskyn has been made known to her
friends, was given at the home .of Miss
Corrine Smith by the Young American
Club Saturday afternoon. The appoint
ments were in pink and white. The bride
to-be was asked to inspect a tiny boat,
which sailed on a pretty sea, In which sat
a bride and groom. The latter gave her
a card to read which invited her to taks
down the washing of linen that hung on a
line. The guests were served a pretty pink
and W’hite luncheon by Mrs. C. W. Sndm.
Mrs. ft. P. Hoskyri, Mrs. W. J. Hoekv i
and Mrs A .E. Schultz, after which tne
company w’as entertained by songs and
music. Miss Harding’s guests were; Miss
Maud Keeler. Miss Helen Grieger, Mis*
Hermoine Grieger, Miss Ruth Dunham,
Miss Ruth McCammon, Miss Myrtle Shull.
Miss Hazel Mallory. Miss Daisy Stansbury,
Miss Loral tie Bartell, Miss Sylvia Des
mond, Miss Josephine DeMerchant and
Miss Corrine Smith.
COUNCIL MEETING.
Minutes of a special meeting of the town
council of Orovllle, Washington, held on
October 2, 1910.
Special meeting of the council called for
Hie purpose of hearing objections to the
proposed estimate of expenses and re
ceipts and making a tax levy for the
coining year. Meeting called to order at
10:30 p. rn. Present Mayor Samson, Coun
cilmen Frils and Smith. Meeting was ad
journed until tlie hour of 8:30 on October
3rd. on account of theres not being a
quorum present.
Meeting called to order at 8:30 and there
not being a quorum present it was ad
journed until Tuesday, Oct. 3, at 2 o’clock
at which time it was called to order.
Present Mayor Samson. Councllmen
Beale, Starrett, Bartell and Smith.
The matter of making the tax levy for
the coming year was taken up and after
some discussion In Uie matter the follow
ing resolution was made and passed.
Resolved, that the council can see no
way of reducing the estimate as published
and that the tax levy be set as follows:
Current expense fund 10 mills
Water worlds fund 6 mills
Bond fund 4 ntllls
Total 20 mills
The matter of adjustment of water rents
for Hart & Co., were taken up and the
.superintendent was instructed to adjust
the rates, and place another meter to
check the one now in place.
The following bills were read and on mo
tion were allowed and ordered paid: E. R.
Hoose, salary and expenses $102.30; E. J.
Wilson, salary and expenses 75.00; K. A.
McMahan, salary, 27.00; Jas. Ferguson,
police justice fees. 3.10: Orovllle Publish
ing Co., printing. 16.35; Okanogan Valley
Power Co. light and power, 132.75; Pacific
Telephone and Telegraph company 5.50;
Schultz & Son., freight and drayage. 9.61;
Ed. Davis, scythe, 1.00; Standard Oil Co..
3.55; S. IT. Sanderson, supplies for water
works. 1.35; W. S. Nott & Co., supplies for
tire department. 7.50; Hughes & Co., sup
plies for water works. 9.14; Neptune Meter
Co., meter repairs. 25.48.
E. R. HOOSE. Clerk.
MATRIMONIAL EVENT.
Miss Katherine Stack and .John R. Hlck
ey. both of Tonasket, were united in mar
riage Tuesday. September 26 at the chapel
of Oar Lady of tire Lake, Loomis, by Rev.
Thomas Ewing Sherman. The bride was
becomingly gowned in blue broadcloth.
Her attendant was Mrs. Margaret Nolan,
of Lockport. N .V.. while James Stack,
brother of tire bride, acted us best man.
Following the ceremony the bridal party
including Farther Sherman, were driven
to the home of the bride. Bright Spot
Ranch, where ft wedding dinner was serv
ed, In the evening a reception was ten
dered the bride and groom by the neigh
boring ranchers. I'ancing was indulged in
and a bountiful repast served. Those in
attendance at the wedding dinner included
Mr and Mrs. W. O. Steele. Mr. and Mrs.
M. IT Hershberger, Mr. and Mrs. Frank
Hermsen. Mr. and Mrs. Wm. Briley, of
Orovllle. Miss Margaret Sherlock. Miss
May Connelly. James Connelly and James
Swan, of Amsterdam, N. Y.
LOCAL BOY NOW MARINE.
Otis .1. Johnson of this place has com
pleted his course of training at More Ise
and Cal., and is now a full fledged mem
ber of I'ncle Sam’s fighting force in the
U. S. marines.
Otis, who is a son of Mrs. Jennie John
son of Orovllle. enlisted in the United
States marine corps at Its Portland, Ore.,
recruiting station on May 22, 1916, and is
now awaiting the call to expeditionary,
sea or foreign shore service. Marines are
military men who are trained for service
ashore or afloat. These versatile soldiers
of the sea not only "go down to the sea
in ships ', but man the garrisons In our
foreign possessions, and frequently are
(ailed upon to settle the disputes of our
Latin-American neighbors.
Young Johnson has already had some
novel experience while serving with the
U. S. marines whose diversified duties
carry them into all sorts of out of the way
places In the world.
H. H, Brown leaves tomorrow for Mil
waukee, expecting to be absent about a
mon’b.
SOME CORN.
During the spring Charlie Lewis form
ed a boy’s club on Ellemeham mountain
for the purpose of competing in the grow
ing of field corn. Wednesday Air. Lewis
was in Oroville with samples of corn
grown by Freddie Groulund. aged 9, and
Bror Groulund, aged 12 which he was
shipping to Uie fair at Pateros for exhibi
tion. 'Hie ears were of yellow Dent. Min
nesota No. 13 variety. They were well
filled and of large size. The raising of this
corn is a great credit to the lads, and the
quality is really remarkable when it is
understood that It was grown at an eleva
tion of 2,800 feet, and that In a country
where corn has not heretofore been con
sidered a staple crop.
THE FIRST NUMBER.
The first number of the Lyceum Bu
reau entertainments, of which there art
to be live, was given in the uipbeum Mon
day evening, at which time and place Ar
thur Kachel, a very clever play reader,
appeared before a large Oroville audience.
He presented the “Music Master," a play
in which Warfield lias made such a repu
tation. Mr. Kachel has a very effective
and pleasingly modulated voice, is easy
and graceful on the stage and his reading
was highly enjoyed by those present. The
next number on the Lyceum program lb
billed for the 28th of this month.
AT THE ORPHEUM.
The Orpheum offers for Saturday and
Sundav evening another of those corking
hue Mutual masterplctures. This time is
presented that eminent screen star, Crane
Wilbur, assisted by a specially selected
cast of artists, in “Vengeance is Mine," a
powerful dramatic story founded on cap
ital punishment. This ip a five reel film,
and every act is full of action and excit
ing interest. No lover of the movlee can
afford to miss it. Besides tills chief feat
ure will be the usual Keystone comedy,
rounding out a delightful evenings enter
tainment.
CARD OF # THANKS.
One of the most valuable gifts the Civic
League library has received for the library
came last week from Mr. C. A. Andrus, of
Nighthawk. There were 26 volumes and a
number of magazines in the box, and
among them were reference books, rellg •
lous, juvenile and fiction, all well bound
and an addition to our library that is
most appreciated.
TRINITY EPISCOPAL CHURCH.
(G. H. Severance, Dean.)
Morning service and sermon at 11 a. m.
Sunday school at 12. Kindly note the
change of hour.
All are cordially Invited to attend these
services.
HARVEST SALE.
The Deborah society will hold a sale of
fruits, vegetables, and home made bread
eakes, and pies on Saturday afternoon at
the meal market of Fred Hart & Co. Come
early and purchase your winter’s supply
of vegetables and fruit.
PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH.
Sunday school 10 o'clock. Morning wor
ship 11 o’clock. Vesper service at 5 o'clock.
We cordially invite you to all of our ser
vices.
A. W. BOND. Pastor.
LIBRARY REPORT.
The following is the library report for
September.
Books taken out 30; applications 3.
Gifts, 36 volumes from J. T. Samson, 27
volumes from L. L. Work and 26 volumes
from C. A. Andrus.
Mr. and Mrs. John Wheel: r and son, of
Bakersfield, Cal., are vuu.ng wilt Mr.
Wheeler’s brother Dooley P. Wheeler, at
his home on the East Oroville Orchard
l.acts.
An apple buyer representing a Seattle
house, was in town Tuesday interviewing
growers in tills part of the valley. There
are not a great many marketable apples
i.p ti way tins y.ar but in another seas
on the orchards will be turning out cat
load lots.
S. U. Starrett, cashier of the First Nat
local bank, and Geo. I. Cote, one of the
leading and most successful farmers of
Uie north part of the valley left Thursday
morning for Pullman to attend the Bank
er-Farmer's convention, held at that place
on October 6 and 7 under th - auspices of
tl" Washington Bankers’ association.
13d. Klingman returned home from his
outing Monday evening. Mrs. Klingman
Is still on the outside visiting with rela
tives. Willie absent Mr. and Mrs. Kling
man attended the great round up at Pen
dleton, one of the most exciting and
unique annual events that takes place on
the I’aclHc coast. It Is the cow man's holi
day. and people from all over the United
States make it a point to attend tills an
nual exhibition ol nervy and incompara
ble rough riding, roping and kindred sports
Mr. Klingman says that if u man wants
to experience thrills all he has to do Is
to be at Pendleton on one of these occa
sions, over 30.0ut) people were present at
the last day of the round up.
K. W. Plessinger, the democratic candi
date for county treasurer and a resident
of the Methow valley, was a visitor In
Oroville Tuesday. Mr. Plessinger has lived
In Okanogan county for 15 years, and has
never held a county office. That does not
mean that he is not equipped for holding
any county office in the gift of the people,
for he is an educated gentleman and an
accountant with but few equals and no
superiors. Should lie he so fortunate as to
ho elected treasurer the people of the
county can rest assured that the office
would be In the hands ot a courteous and
capable officer. It was a pleasure to meet
Mr. Plessinger again, us we had not seen
him for nearly ten years, which would in
dicate that either he or the editor of this
great moral journal Is not In the habit of
doing much traveling over the county. One
thing sure, if Mr. Plessinger puts oft com.
ing up this way another ten years the
chances are all against his finding the
scribe this side of the great divide.
A flock of Loomisites who do enjoy
life in a radical yet royal way wan over
to Oroville tor Sunday, the guests of
Dr. and Mrs. J. L. Masters. They reali
ze tlie coming of winter.and are mak
ing the best of the present pleasant
weather.
Last Thursday before the anivil of
rho Louis Hill extra some joshers about
town spread the report that Hushes,
the republican nominee for president
was coming on the seme train, and
there waa quite a number of ueople
wii.j a ere led to be' ; eve the storv.
Frank Buckingham and Chard! Lon
don left Sunday on a deer hunt in the
mountains west of Orovllle. They took
the trip as much fo,’ an outing as tne
chance of getting a deer, and the fun
and rest that they get out of the excur
sion will repay them fru their trouble.
Those who happened to be up after
the big blow last Friday night witness
ed one of the most wonderful displays
of northern lights ever seen in this
part of the country. Of course, only a
very few were up at that unearthly
hour, so that the exhibition was wast
ed.
The erstwhile mild mannered hus
bandman is having his temper tried
and Is prone to rude sayings as he
hoists the stovepipe into place and
finds It difficult to make the Joints
meet. It is the one particular season
when the wife and kiddles should take
to the cellar until the stovepipe is
drawing nicely.
j AID TO HIS CHIEF.
Frank Funkbouser, private secre
tary for Congressman Dill was a visi
tor In town Sunday and Tuesday, and
it kept him busy responding to the
greetings from him many friends in
this community. Mr. Fuukhouser
taught school in this county for a rfum
iier of years, and was a successful and
popular instructor. He took special in
terest in athletics, and while pt the
head of the Conconully schools built
up one of the strongest football teams
that has ever taken part in contests on
the gridiron in this county. The Pro
fessor was very popular among the
school lads, for in all the games in
which his team took part he was ab
solutely fair and just. He asked for no
advantage, never played the baby/act,
and while loyal to his own boys he
accorded a full share of credit to his
opponents. Mr. <Funkbouser’s popu
larity in this county is a strong asset
to Mr. Dill’s candidacy, for he is an
active campaigner, and his personality
carries considerable weight in vote
getting.
Geo. Kiste was down to OrortUe
from Motson Saturday.
H. R. Elliott, of Havlllah, was reg
istered in town Saturday.
Okanogan is to have a fair on the
17th and 18tb of tills mouth.
R. J. Hall, Indian farmer, was over
from Republic Sunday on officlaj busi
ness.
Mr. and Mrs. W. C. Gresham, of Oka
nogan were visitors in Orovllle the
latter part of last week.
Mrs. D. H. Lewis has been confined
to the bouse for nearly two weeks with
a severe attack of illness.
Both the republican and democratic
candidates for congress from this dis
trict were in town Sunday.
W. P. Owens formerly living in Oro
ville and now on a farm near Tonas
ket, was a visitor in town Monday.
Readers in the classified column are
regular eight cylinder pullers in the
way of business getters. Try' them.
Attorney Adams was called to To
nasket Monday, where he appeared In
a civil case on trial before Judge Sin
cock.
Mrs. E. McCammon left Monday
morning for Colville, where she will
visit for a few weeks with a married
daughter.
Campaign oratory broke out this
week and the country Is liable to have
quite a windy time of it for the next
five weeks.
Dr. and Mrs. W. C. Ketchum, who
have been at Molson since leaving here
spent a few days in Oroville, the latter
part of last week.
Harry Stanton left Friday last in
bis gasoline launch to make the run
up the Okanogan river to Penticton
and Okanogan lake.
Julius Brechlln, of Loomis, spent a
couple of days in Orovllle the latter
part of last week visiting with bis son
in-law, Thos. Colier.
Much wheat is now being delivered
at this place thanks to the fact that a
wheat market can be found in Oroville
supplied by Mr. Waldrefi*
The state game and fish commis
sioner has closed Lost Lake, some six
miles south of Chesaw to all fishing
for five years from October 23, 1916.
There is a chill in the night air that
is a premonition of the coming winter.
It is pretty early in the season for a
change, especially considering the
short summer.
Election only four weeks from next
Tuesday, but It is going to be quite a
trying and strenuous four weeks sitt
ing the chaff from the wheat while
reading the daily political comments.
Mr. and Mrs. Joe McDonnell are vis
itors in town. Mr. McDonnell is inter
ested in the 49th Parallel mine and his
presence here may mean that work la
to be renewed upon that most promis
ing property.
The annual run of salmon in the
rivers is supplying sport for those who
can handle a fish spear, and providing
provender for Indians, who are al
ways on hand when salmon com
mence running.
Among a long list of losses among
Canadians from Penticton and vicin
ity on the fighting line in France is
the name of a brother of Mrs. 11 F.
Helps, formerly living on Hill ranch,
cn Osoyoos lake.
Miss Marie Hill, of Minneapolis, vis
ited with her uncle and aunt, Mr. and
Mrs. Frank M. Dallam, for several
days during the past week, coming
here from Wallace, Idaho, where she
spent the summer with a brother.
The rummage sale held by the ladles
of Trinity Guild last Friday and Satur
day was fairly well patronized and
quite a number partook of the baked
beans and brown bread supper served
Saturday evening in the library build
ing.
Mrs. H. E. Reed left Monday morn
ing for Davenport where she will Join
her husband who has a position on the
Davenport Times. Mrs. Reed has been
visiting with her parents, Mr. and Mrs.
J. P. Sampson, for the past two
months.
H. F. Warren who has been at work
on the new flour mill at Tonasket all
summer, was up to renew acquain
tance with his family over Sunady. He
reports that the big new mill at our
neighboring town will be completed
within the next six weeks. It Is larger
than the old mill destroyed by fire In
the spring and will be a great addition
to Tonasket.
ILM PER TEAK
