VOTE AND WORK AGAINST ALL REFERENDUM MEASURES
and the Constitutional Amendment
Education
Organization
Emancipation
VOL. XXV.
SAMUEL GOMPERS TELLS WHY
ANTI-PICKETING BILL IS BAD
Article Dictated by Samuel Gompers, to Be Used in Campaign in
the State of Washington, to Prevent the Enactment of the
Bill to Define Picketing, Prohibit the Same and
Providing Penalties for Violation
A serious menace to the labor
movement of Washington impends in
Senate Hill 3667 that has been re
ferred for the decision of the voters
in the November election. This
measure has for its purpose denial to
the wage earners of equal rights as
tree citizens and of their liberties as
workers in industry and commerce.
In an industrial dispute employers
have an advantage through their
greater industrial and financial power.
which secures to them agencies of
Influence that are not available to
the workers. These agencies include
the usual methods for securing pub
licity and for securing the sanction
of public opinion and approval. As
opposed to this marshalling of the
forces allied with the managerial
side of industry and commerce there
must be lor the wage earners oppor
tunities and methods for securing a
hearing of their contentions in the
industrial disputes in order that they
may secure the understanding and
the CO-operation of their fellow work
ers. Since the employers have con
trol over the more subtle indirect
means of publicity, the workers must
utilize open, public methods.
The right to picket is essential to
securing an understanding or even a
hearing for many an industrial dis
pute. Co-operation and unity of ac
tion among workers must be based
upon knowledge of facts and pur
poses. Only by word of mouth or by
some device that appeals Imme
diately to the eye, or by some advertis
ing agency, can workers or strikers
disseminate quickly and effectively
facts and principles involved in their
contest or the justice of their de
mands upon employers. This pro
posed measure, which denies the
workers the right to maintain, carry
or transport on any sidewalk, street,
public place or private property any
banner, sign, transparency, writing!
or printing, denies the workers of j
their most elective means of getting
tacts before the public and for placing!
fellow workers in a position to decide
Intelligently upon their attitude to
ward the strike or lockout.
Employers under the law can se
cure publicity for their contentions in
an industrial dispute through news
pap : • ami ether common agencies of
pul,laity which find their way Into
homes ami offices of many citizens.
Through their economic power they
bar such agi ucies to the wage earners.
To denj the wage earner the right to
( toll their story by word of mouth in
the streets, public highways or public
places is to deny them a right neces
sary to carry out ihe purposes of the
labor movement.
There can be nothing illegal or
wrongful n securing a hearing for the
( M ts .11 a strike. Therefore, as citi
zens they have a right to use streets.
Sidewalks, public highways or public
places for this legitimate activity
uecessar) for furthering the welfare
of human beings.
It is in accord with American ideals
and Institutions thai our greatest un
dertaking- ami the most far-reaching
efforts tor human betterment shall be
accomplished through voluntary agen
|, The organised labor movement
,s a voluntary organization for wage
earners tor their protection and for
% their betterment and for the estab
lishment of Ideals of justice and hu
|t |d in accord with American
concepts Unit labor organizations j
should be recognized as necessary, j
legitimate agencies and should be ac-i
a ,r.led a legal right to the perform-,
BjOS of thOSS acts and functions!
• Btoessary to carry out the purpose of j
V ,|„. organization.
American thought is opposed to the
'■ imposition of uny compulsory -author
. ... .1.... ~n., 1... ..1i11.t,,!
uy in relsttoni thai can be ail justed
< IhrOttfh voluniary collective action
. b , hosl . iinme<liately concerned.
Wherever I «0< ernmental ifMMf is
~jwn He' authority to stipulate or
• Kftttate Industrial relations or the
iCtlWtiea of voluniary organlzal ions
there !s crsatsd an opportunity
I whereby the government may exer-
I cisc unjust and tyrannical power and
may limit the liberty of individuals.
The apprehension which such grants
of authority arouses is not without
justification. For there never has
been a government which, granted
any degree of despotic authority, d.UI
not transform thai authority Into
tyranny under some pretext of emer-
gency or guise for some welfare pur
pose.
The pending bill In your state is a
serious and unwarranted invasion of
the rights and the liberties of the
workers of Washington and involves
a principle that is subversive to the
! liberty and welfare of all citizens.
The organized workers of Washing
ton must make the fight for the cause
of liberty, humanity and justice. They
must defeat this measure In the No-
I vember election.
The act of congress approved Oct.
15, 1914, being "An act to supplement
existing laws against unlawful re
straints and monopolies, and for other
purposes," In paragraph 2, section 20,
reads as follows:
"And no such restraining order or
injunction shall prohibit any person
or persons, whether singly or in con
cert, from terminating any relation of
employment, or from ceasing to per
form any work or labor, OR FROM
RECOMMENDING, ADVISING OR
PERSUADING OTHERS BY PEACE
FUL MEANS SO TO DO: OR FROM
ATTENDING AT ANY PLACE
WHERE ANY SUCH PERSON OR
PERSONS MAY LAWFULLY BE
FOR THE PURPOSE OF PEACE
FULLY OBTAINING OR COMMUNI
CATING INFORMATION, OR FROM
PEACEFULLY PERSUADING ANY
PERSON TO WORK OR TO AB
STAIN FROM WORKING; OR FROM
CEASING TO PATRONIZE or to em
ploy any party to such dispute, or from
recommending, advising, or persuad
ing Others by peaceful and lawful
means so to do; or from paying or
giving to, or withholding from, any
person engaged in such dispute, any
strike benefits or other moneys or
things of value; or from peaceably
assembling in a lawful manner, and
for lawful purposes; or from doing
any act or thing which might lawfully
be done in the absence of such dis
pute by any party thereto, nor shall
any of the acts specified in this para
graph be considered or held to be
violations of any law of the United
States."
Surely the laws of the federal gov
ernment of the United States which
.." . ifically declare the normal activi
ties of the workers as entirely lawful
should not be made illegal hy the
State of Washington.
TENNESSEE SHOE MAN
COMES TO EVERETT
J. A. Moore, recently of Athens,
Term., and formerly of the Thomas &
Moore Shoe Company, the largest shoe
dealers in Eastern Tennessee, has
transferred his interests to Everetl
and has become an equal partner
with \\\ 11. Appensellar, owner of the
Everetl Shoe Market.
Plans are under way with Messrs
Appensellar bad Moore to establish a
chain of stores in all ihe coast cities.
Store No. 1! will be opened in Tacoma
about November 1. with v large stock
of footwear.
Two dippings from B, I. Marsh's
.letter in "The Shingle Weaver":
"No matter how this strike goes, the
I boys in Amuortes have played the
game Tke men, and every shingle
; weaver in the slate owes them a debt
of gratitude."
"And don't forget those Kverett and
Ane.eortes strikers when you Ret your
pay cheek. It may mean the differ
•MM to you between continuing to fe
ci ive ihe union scale or going back
to the old scale of wages. lib like
putting money in the bank to protect
you and yours against loss of health
or limb. Think it over."
The Labor Journal
"RULE OF REASON"
Makes Some Difference When Appli-
cation Is Made to Labor
By Grant Hamilton.
in the speeches of Candidate
Hughes he has emphatically declared
himself as committed to the rule of
reason where lahor questions are in
volved. In approaching this declara
tion he severely criticised President
Wilson for the position taken in be
half of the eight-hour day on the
transportation lines of the country,
and asserted that "there was a great
necessity, for a reign of reaon in this
country.'' Pursuing his theme he said:
"Labor least of all can afford to sur
render the rules of reason."
After delivering these expressions
he lauded himself "as a friend of la
bor," and concluded: "I desire to say
that the most vital interest that labor
has in this country is in the settle
ment of controversies according to
reason."
The record of Justice of the Su
preme Court Hughes flatly and un
equivocally contradicts Ihe state
ments of Candidate Hughes.
When the United States Supreme
Court rendered its decision in the
Standard Oil case, involving the
judicial interpretation of the Sherman
antitrust law, the "rule of reason"
was read into the Sherman anti-trust
law and the Standard Oil Company
judicially escaped the penalties pro
vided for violations of that law. Cor
pftruti'on and vested interests were
shielded from harm by the judicial
interpretation, or rather judicial
amendment to the anti-trust law.
In 1914 the United States Supreme
Court delivered its final decision in
the Danbury Hatters case, and Candi
date Hughes was then Justice Hughes
and participated and concurred in the
decision rendered. Justice Hughes
did not then apply his "rule of rea
son" to labor, as had formerly been
applied by the same court when the
Standard Oil Company was involved,
and offer a dissenting opinion based
on the former action of the court.
On the contrary, Justice Hughes re
fused in the Danbury Hatters case to
apply the "rule of reason" and con
curred in the decision which stripped
the wage earning hatters to the num
ber of over one hundred of their
homes and their savings, the accumu
lations of their entire lives, and left
them penniless and In want, simply
because these men were organized and
had exercised their natural and nor
mal rights to matain a decent stand
ard of living, and in dv ng so were
engaged in an industrial dispute with
the i). 10. Loewe Company.
Neither ran Candidate Hughes
('scape responsibility hy the assertion
that he did not write the decision, for
Justice Harlan, tome years ago
stated, (luting the course of an ad
dress:
"Thus, you will observe, not only is
the utmost care taken to make the
; opinion express the views of the court,
j but the final judgment rests, in every
Case decided, upon the examination by
eacli member of the court of the
record and briefs. Let me say that,
during my entire service in the Su
preme Court, I have not known a
single instance in which the court has
determined a case merely upon the
report of one or more justices as to
what was contained in the record and
to what questions were properly
, presented hy it."
Therefore Candidate Hughes can
not evade full responsibility for his
altitude as expressed in the Ilanbury
Hatters decision.
SEND IN NEWS
Send in Ihe news!
Every union in the city should have
a press correspondent.
You Want news of your union to
appear in your paper.
Then get busy and see that some
one i 8 especially appointed to send
it in.
And see that it reaches the Labor
Journal's office on time, for every
paper lias a closing time.
All local news must be in the Labor
Journal* office nol later than 11
o'clock Wednesday morning if It is to
appear in next week's paper.
Leave all news matter at Labor
Temple or hand it lo the editor.
I Charles Hrewer. a member of th"
Seattle Plumbers' Cnion. and his wife
Matted friends in K\erett last Sunday
THE OFFICIAL PAPER OF THE
DEVOTED TO THE INTEREST
EVERETT, WASH., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1916
TRADES
COUNCIL
NEWS
Wednesday, Oct. 4.
The Council was called to order at
8 p. in.
H. (). Haywood and Miss Tlllle
Freeman were installed as delegates
from the Cooks and Walters' Union.
The routine business of the Council
was transacted.
After a discussion of general topics
the Council adjourned.
A. F. OF L. POWER DEFINED
From reading ihe communications
. published in The Tailor touching the
, election of delegates to the convention
. of the American Federation of Labor,
we are led to the conclusion thai a
misunderstanding exists in the minds
of the writers as to the scope and
power of the convention of ih<- A,]
F. of L.
in the first place the writers over
look the fact that the American Fed
eration is a voluntary organization,
drawn together hy the realization of
Ihe necessity of closer unity of the
working class, which would enable
them to be of mutual assistance to
each other.
This coming together of the dif
ferent groups composing 'lie Ameri
can Federation does not cause any
one group to lose its autonomy (5V its
identification. To do so would be at
variance with the original intentions
of the people who of their own free
will come together with others to
secure their friendship and assistance
in the hour of need.
No organization would think of
going into the A. F. of L. knowing
that by so doing they would be giving
up the right to manage their own
business as they saw fit. It is safe
to predict no union will ever do so.
There is quite an analogy between i
the plan of organization of the United
Slates and the Americ in Federation
of Labor.
The national unions hold the rela
tionship to the A. F. of L. that ihe
states hold to the national govern
ment. The locals composing the na
tional hold the same r tlationship to
it that the different counties hold to
the state. The United Stales cannot
make a law contrary 10 'he agreement
made at the time tie- - atOS formed a
federation. Neither can the American
Federation make a law that would
abridge the rights of any national.
The Tailor, official paper of the Jour
neymen Tailors of America.
PRESSMEN'S SAMTORIUM
The local Pressmen's Union last
night received informal ion that their
new $150,000 sanitorium at Rogerville,
Tennessee, is completed and is now
open to receive patients. Thus an
Other trades union has shown its pro
gressiveness and humanity. Never
could such a thing he done under open
shop conditions.
Barbof Drown, who works in Ihe
-hop opposite the Rose thealre. com
plains that he has frequently be. ti
taken for Sam Walker, wearing a ii:i
star. No reference is made as to the
personal appearance of either gentle
man, but Mr. Brown object! to being
taken for a "tin bull."
You believe your union membership
has helped you, don't you? Then, i;
you do, don't you think it will b ■ a
good thing to attend i's meetings and
render what aid you can lo the CMSe?
C. W. Knapp, business agent of the
, Carpenters, returned from a visit to
relatives and his farm near North
Yakima. Charley enjoyed tin- trip
muchly.
, The Three Lakes. Wash., shingle
mill is unfair. It is operating, or al
. tempting to operate, rather, with a
part'al crew of Incompetent tie
Shingle Wea\ < r
—— -
The Hayland Shingle Co. is building
. a new mill al Stan wood
EVERETT TRADES COUNCIL.
OF ORGANIZED LABOR.
"COLONEL" HARTLEY
IS CHALLENGED
Secretary of Washington State Fed
eration of Labor Dares Him to
Debate the Anti-Picketing Bill
j ; At a meet ing of the Tacoma Com
i menial Club which had more than
-nit of the most prominent business
men of that city present, Charles
Perry Taylor on last Wednesday
cleaned up "Col." Roland 11. Hartley
In a debate on the anti-picket ins bill.
As a result of the favorable com
ments made by those who heard him.
.Mr. Taylor has decided to challenge
"Col." Hartley to join debate on the
land-picketing bill at any time and any
place the "Col." may designate and as
i many times as he desires between
t now and the end of ihe campaign,
it is hoped the "Col." will take ad
vantage of the offer and try to make
things interesting for Taylor, who is
I perfectly competent to handle his side I
lof ihe question,
Speak up, "Col."—Seattle Union.
Record.
GOVERNMENT OWNERSHIP
A thorough investigation of govern
ment ownership and control of rail
roads, telegraph lines, express com
panies, river and ocean transportation
ami other public utilities will begin
November 20, Senator Newlands an
nounced !n an address before the
Chicago Chamber of Commerce. The
investigation will be by the joint sub-'
committee composed of the interstate
commerce committees of the house
and senate, of which Newlands is
chairman. The investigation would j
be conducted in accordance with
President Wilson's recommendations
to congress.—News Item.
It is to be hoped the committee will
find something out. Rut from reading
the item one would get the idea that
those congressional gentlemen never;
heard of such a thine; before Wilson
called their attention to it.
GOVERNMENT
SAVES $1,000,000
The superdreadnought Arizona has
just been completed at the New York !
navy yard. Navy Department officials
are elated over the success which has
marked the Arizona's construction by
government workmen. Acting Secre
tary Roosevelt said the ship was not
only finished on schedule time, but
; would save the government about
$1,000,000, a-; compared with lowest
estimates of private concerns,
The navy yard employes work eight
hours and are paid the prevailing
union rate.
Local No. 335, Journeymen Tailors'
Union of America, has purchased a
beautiful banner. The banner is of
blue, trimmed with gold fringe and
lettered in gold. It has be.mi placed
in the hall in which the Tailors meet
in the Labor Temple. The case con
taining it was made hy .Mr. dinger
and is a very neat piece of work.
Re careful about your vote on the
referendum measures. Vote against
them.
i
Spirit Rousers
By CHARLES PERRY TAYLOR
Secy. Washington State Federation
of Labor.
(Editor's Note—Before the mi m
bi-rs' council of the Tacoma Com
mero'al Club at a noon luncheon, with
"iHi or more of the business men and
open thop employers of T scorns
present, Colonel Roland H. Hartley of
ISverett, open shop candidate tor the
nom'nation for governor of Washing
ton, and Charles Perry Taylor, si Cre
tan of the Slate Federal inn of Labor,
debated Referendum Measure No. i>.
the anti-picketing bill. Colonel Hart
ley was singuarly abusive of union
labor, stigmatizing strikers and
Union officers as "paras to-V "skunks''
and "whelps." without advancing any
argument ami depending on abuse ;<<
a Substitute therefor. Secretary Tay
lor d'SCU ed the proposed nua lire as
an Invasion of the constitutional lib
erties of a free people, not only
js'rik<rs aad unionists, hut of al
OitlSens, declaring I a violation of
; th" dearly bought rights fought for at
Bunk r lliil and Lexingto-i, Qettyi
Vote and Work
AGAINST
All Referendum Measures and
the Constitutional Amendment
Referendum Measure No. 3 and Referendum Measure No. 4
render useless the Initiative, Referendum and Recall.
1. By requiring all persons both in the city and the country
districts to sign all petitions in the registration offices and befo c a
registration officer.
2. Making it a gross misdemeanor for any one to solid!: or
attempt to induce any one to sign a petition within 100 feet of the
entrance to a registration office.
Referendum Measure No. s—Whitney Convention Bill:
destroys the Direct Primary by
, I. Restoring the caucus-primary-convention, paid for by poli
ticians, and compelling candidates whose names appear on the ballot
to swear to spport the platform made by the machine controlled
convention.
... , y el 'm'nating independent candidates by means of a
joker.
3. Legalizing the power of the "hand picking" executive com
mittees.
Referendum Measure No. 6—Anti-Picketing Law:
designed to destroy labor unions by
1. Making unlawful the publication of any facts concerning
any labor difficulty. Under this law it would be a crime for any
person to even carry a newspaper anywhere containing a statement
of facts about any labor trouble.
2. Preventing the use of pickets to inform the public of the
unfair attitude of an employer.
Referendum Measure No. 7—Certificate of Public Necessity and
Convenience:
1. Prohibits any new public utility either privately or publicly
owned unless State Public Service Commission consents to it on the
grounds of public necessity or convenience.
2. Prohibits extensions of municipally owned public utilities—
water, gas. electric, steam heating plants, street railways, interurban
railways, except on consent of Public Service Commission. (Note
that telephone companies are omitted.)
Referendum No. B—Port Bill:
This meausre thwarts the effort of the people of the Seattle
Port District to develop publicly owned and operated harbor ter
minals for access to cheap water transportation to compete with the
state-owned and dominion-aided ports of San Francisco and Van
couver.
By preventing, in the interest of private dock and warehouse
owners, further improvement of the port for the benefit of producers
—of grain, fruit, lumber, fish, etc. —and of consumers of both city
and state —private profit opposed to general welfare.
By adding to the Port Commission one official elected by the
city alone and three officials elected by the county for entirely dif
ferent purposes—a denial of direct responsibility to the people in
the management of their public port utilities.
Referendum Bill No. 9—Budget Bill:
1 his Budget Bill prohibits the temporary use or transfer of all
idle public moneys from one fund to another and compels cities anrl
towns and all other municipal corporations to borrow money and
go on a warrant basis in all unforeseen cases not provided for in
the annual budget.
This bill and the Renick bill have cost the people thousands ot
dollars in interest on borrowed money while they have millions lying
idle.
Senate Bill 98 permits the state to use its idle moneys, but the
foregoing bills deny the same right to all municipal corporations.
Proposed Amendment to the Constitution—Providing c Property
Qualification for Voters:
This proposed amendment will deprive 75 per cent of the
women and 40 per cent of the men voters of the state of the right
to vote on any measure providing for the raising or expenditure of
public funds.
It is a reversion to the absurd laws of colonial days, and un
thinkable at the present time except by those privileged interests
which are attempting at all times to wrest from the people their
power.
brag anil Bhiloh. Secretary Taylor has
challenged' the colonel to debate the
anti-picketing bill anywhere, any
place, any time, before anyone, prefer
ably before audiences composed of
those citizens who feel themselves to
be enemies of union labor.)
Peanuto Kernelo Rolando
Heartlesso, Everetto, Bnow-Ho-Musho,
Washo —
Most Honorable Sir:
When dishonorable war in Everett
Are closed.
1 would be made joyful
To disgust w Ith you
Some of differences
Which separate us apart
if you will permit me
That discourtesy.
Same a- before
Commercial Club of Tacoma.
Rich mutual admiration society,
I will deride you for
Inflamed opinion against
All labor un onites
It ate sensitive to workhorse pride
To be excoriated
In Organization
Lies the Hope
of Labor
Like tWO-iegged ordinary slave
Instead of favored aristocrat.
1 anticipation you must fee)
Deliciously rebuked to find
Yourself monopolist of hlackguurdi.- m,
Kveti in est in.at ion of your kind
i make assurances of intentions
Most umiuarrelsotne.
For it are not expectable
To froth at mouth
In debate before rich pentlenians.
It can be my humble preference
ITo suggest
Perhaps you are bilious.
Let us be gentlemen al any cosl.
Some other time in future
Before crowd of aristocrats.
Perhaps audience will feel
Humiliated to Bad
Its champion for governor
Merely d scourteous and disgrace
To his hosts
Please take cascaret
And scatter yourself
Hoping ycm soon repossess normality.
I am. same as e\»r,
! our obscure parasite.
The labor "whelp."
No. 85
