BARRE BAILY TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 173.
BARRE, VERMONT, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 101G.
PRICE, OXE CEXT.
THE
BULGARIANS
LOSE VILLAGE
British Have Captured Ne
volyen on Macedo
nian Front
BUT SOFIA DENIES
LOSS OF THE PLACE
The Russians Are Delivering
Fierce Attack Along
East Front
O'LEARY BELLIGERENT.
London, Oct. fi. British forces which
recently crossed to the eastern bank of
the Struma river on the Macedonian
front, have occupied the village of Ne
volyen, It was announced to-day.
Sofia Denies Fall of Ifevolyen.
Sofia, Thursday, via London, Friday,
Oct. 6. All efforts of the Russians and
Rumanians to advance on the Dobrlidja
front have resulted in failure, according
to the official statement. On the Struma
front an enemy battalion under cover of
artillery, infantry and machine Run fire
attempted to advance toward Nevolyen
village but failed, the statement says.
MOST VIOLENT
ARTILLERY FIRE
OF WHOLE WAR
Russian Attacks on Eastern Front are
Fearful in Their Intensity and in
Places the Infantry Has Kept
Charge for 36 Hours.
London, Oct. 6. Russian attacks on
the eastern front are more violent than
any known since the start of the war,
according to a Copenhagen dispatch to
the Exchange Telegraph company, quot
ting an eastern correspondent of the Ber
lin Tokal Anziger.
The dispatch says that near Kary
trticn and Zuiiilno the Russian infantry
have attacked the German lines for the
last 3o hours without cessation. Ger
man officers are quoted as saying that
the Russian bombardment is now nearly
as violent as that on the Somrae. The
Russians are using thousands of cannon
and in a few davs the Germans fired
60,000 shells on a very small front.
RETREATING BEFORE BRITISH.
Bulgarians are Driven Bask in Greek
Macedonia.
Paris, Oct. 6. The Bulgarians on the
Struma front in Greek Macedonia are
retreating before the British, the war
otlice announced to-day.
ARTILLERY WARFARE
RAGES NEAR VERDUN
Germans are Shelling Poivre Hill, East of
the Meuse and North
of Verdun.
Paris, Oct. 6. The war office reports
great activity on the part of the artillery
on the eruun from, the Germans shell
ing Poivre hill, east of the Meuse and
north of v erdun, on the Somme front.
The artillery was active during the night,
BRITISH ADVANCE ON SOMME.
Pushed Their Lines Forward Northeast
of Eaucourt L'Abbaye.
London, Oct. fi. The British last night
pushed forward their lines northeast of
Eaucourt L'Abbaye on the Somme front,
it was officially announced to-day.
GERMAN CHANCELLOR
HOLDING GROUND
His Opponents Are Striving Hard to
Force German Government to Re
sume Former Submarine
Activity.
Berlin, Thursday, via London, Friday,
Oct. 6. Efforts to compose the differ
ences between Chancellor Von Bethmann
Hollweg and his opponents in the Reich
stag, which have been in progress since
adjournment, apparently accomplished
little. The chancellor's position, how
ever, appears unshaken and such infor
mation as is obtainable indicates that
the campaign for the resumption of sub
marine activity on the olu basis has met
with no success.
Discussion of the submarine issue and
other problems of foreign politics was
resumed to-day before the ways and
means committee.
Sues Vance McCormick for Alleged Libel
and Will Sue Newspapers.
New York, Oct. fl. Vance C. McCor
mick. chairman of the Democratic na
tional committee, announced late yester
day that he had been served with sum
mons in a Biiit for ."0,000 brought
against him by Jeremiah A. O'Leary,
president of the American Truth society.
Mr. McCormick said he had not been ap
praised, however, of the charges upon
which the suit was based. Mr. O'Leary
stated that his purpose in instituting the
action was "to find out, first, whether
phyenism, so-called, is libellous, and sec.
ond, whether it is inconsistent with
Americanism."
Mr. O'Leary said he resented a state
merit attributed to Mr. McCormick, criti
cising him for sending an "insulting me
sage" to President Wilson. In that mes
sage Mr. O'Leary criticised the president
for "not enforcing American rights
against Great Britain" and informed Mr.
Wilson that he would not vote for the
re-election of the president. Mr. Wilson
replied that he would "feel deeply morti
tied to have you (Mr. O'Leary) or any
body like you vote for me, adding
"Since you have access to many disloyal
Americans and I have not, I will aak vou
to convey this message to them."
In the statement attributed to Mr.
McCormick, appearing October 4, and
upon which Mr. O Leary said he based his
suit for libel, the chairman of the Dem
ocratic national committee was quoted
as having commented upon the presence
of Charles L. Hughes at the l nion League
club reception Tuesday night, concluding
with the statement that there could be
no doubt about Mr. Hughes' position be
cause of his silence on the message sent
to the president by Mr. O'Leary.
Mr. O'Leary gave out last night the
following:
"My purpose of suing Mr. McCormick
is to find out, first, whether phyenism,
so-called, is libellous, and, second, wheth
er it is inconsistent with Americanism.
I also sue him as a challenge to him to
let an American jury decide whether a
protest to the president because he has
not enforced American rights against
Great Britain is disloyalty. I also re
sent the hideous imputation contained in
his statement that any man running for
a public oflice could repudiate ray vote,
or the votes of millions of my fellow cit
izens who think as I do.
"What right would Charles E. Hughes
have to repudiate me? What right has
he to repudiate any voter who would
vote for him? I yield to Mr. McCormick
his right to support Mr. Wilson and to
vote for Mr. Wilson, and no matter how
faultless I believe Mr. Wilson has been
in protecting American lives, property
and commerce I would never assert that
he was disloyal because he supported Mr.
Wilson and differed from Mr. Hughes."
John R. Jones, attorney for Mr.
O'Leary, declared that Mr. O'Leary "also
intends to begin other libel suits against
newspapers throughout the country who
have questioned what he considered to
be a perfectly proper telegram to the
president of the L'nited States."
DARTMOUTH
HAS NEW HEAD
Ernest Martin Hopkins In
augurated as Presi
dent To-day
MUSTERING OUT
HAS BEEN DELAYED
MANY INSTITUTIONS
WERE REPRESENTED
Gov. Spaulding of New
Hampshire Was Among
List of Guests
Hanover, N. If., Oct. fi. Many New
England educational institutions were
represented at the inauguration of Er
nest Martin Hopkins as president of
Dartmouth college to-dav. The exercises,
which were conducted bv Craven Lay-
cock, dean of the faculty, took place in
Webster hall, and a long procession
marched there ;rom the college chapel.
Resides the student body and many
alumni there were the trustees and fac
ulty, Gov. Spaulding and hk council and
staff and guests from other colleges.
The rustees of the college last night
tendered a reception in honor of Presi
dent-elect and Mrs. Ilopkirn in the tro
phy room of the gymnasium. Among
those who assisted the future president
and his wife in receiving were Gov.
Spaulding of this state. William Martin
Chase, Benjamin A. Kimball and F. S.
Streeter of Concord. Rev. Dr. and Mrs.
Francis- Brown of New York, Mr. and
Mrs. Lewis Parkhurst of Winchester,
Mass.. Mr. and Mrs. K. K. Hall of Bos
ton, Henrv Bates Thayer and Miss Ruth
Thaver of New York, Dr. i nd Mrs. John
M. Gile of Hanover and Henry Lynn
Moore of Minneapolis.
GOETHALS ON 8-HOUR BOARD.
President Names Him as One of the Commissioners.
TALK OF THE TOWN
CUNARD LINE SUNK.
The Franconia Was in British War Serv
ice. London, Oct. 6. The admiralty an
nounces that the Cunard steamer Fran
conia, employed for transport duty, was
sunk in the Mediterranean V ednesday
bv an enemy submarine. The steamer
had no troops aboard. Twelve men of
the crew of 302 are missing.
The Franconia was being used as a
British transport. She was vessel of
1K1.V) tons gross and was built in 1910.
Her maiden voyage was between Liver
pool and Boston in February, 1911.
Roy C. Blanchard of South Barre, son
of Mrs. A. M. Holt of Brookfield, and
Miss Jennie Blann of Montpelier were
married at? the parsonage of Bethany
church in Montpelier Wednesday even
ing by the pastor. Rev. Stanley F. Blm
field. " The couple were attended by Miss
Anna M Iver and William St. John. Soon
after the ceremony, Mr. and Mrs. Blanch
ard Uft for Boston, and on their return
Iter wiU cu4a ia South Barre.
Fire Commissioner E. F. Nash of Bur
lington was a visitor in the city to-day.
With Chief Gladding and others connect
ed with the fire and water departments,
Mr. Nash inspected the equipment and
enjoyed a trip to Barre's principal sources
of water supply.
Mr. and Mrs. Armando Papazoni of
Addison place observed yesterday the
loth anniversary of their wedding by
enjoying a ride to JSorth JUontpelier,
where they visited friends and devoted
part of their sojourn to hunting. Mr.
and Mrs. Papazoni were married in Italy,
and have resided in Barre for the past
ten years. He is employed as a granite-
cutter.
One year ago to-day, according to a
record kept by a North Main street deal
er, the thermometer registered 74 de
grees in the shade, a reading which indi
cates that the present season of warm
weather is not wholly out of the ordi
nary. Lowering skies this forenoon prom
ised the rain predicted for the week end
and after the showers that seem to be
due, the weather clerk may well write
finis to the July atmosphere that has
prevailed for a week. A party of young
women who left the city one afternoon
recently for a "foliage" party were dis
appointed because the leaves had failed
to turn and in quarters where students
of the seasons look forward to the an
nual riot of color, there is apprehension
lest winter comes without the usual
foliage show.
One of the B. A. Eastman delivery
teams passed through a singular experi
ence yesterday when the team was deliv
ering groceries on Warren street. Doug
las Newell, who was in charge of the
team, stepped into a house to leave a
few groceries when the horse, which is
blind, commenced to nibble at the grass
along the roadside and continued to step
little further from the road until it
stepped off the bank, the horse, wagon.
groceries and all taking a speedy roll
down the sharp precipice until they land
ed in the. garden plot about 25 feet be
low. Luckily fhe horse was not injured
in the least and the wagon was slightly
damaged, the thills and steps being brok
en; but the harness was torn and cut so
badly that it was useless to try and re
pair it. the horse wws immediately
hitched into another wagon, apparently
none the worse for his experience in any
way.
Barre fandom is to be largely repre
sented when the first game of the world's
series between the Red Sox and Brooklyn
begins at Braves' field in Boston to-mor-.
row afternoon. Most of those who are
leaving for the Hub plan to witness at
least three games. Mr. and Mrs. George
M. Marrion. Mr. and Mrs. Atlo Mariani,
Joseph Marchettl, Thomas O. Gaul, John
E. Hoban, Frank E. Austin and George
W. Gorman left in automobiles this
morning. Among those who went yester
day were John O'Leary, William Wish
art, E. F. Farrington and Fred N. Braley.
Many more plan to leave at 9:30 o'clock
this evening or on the train which de
parts soon after midnight. Their num
ber includes Engineer A. P. Burnham,
Conductor E. W. Felt and Brakeman L.
M. Marshall of the Barre & Chelsea and
Montpelier & Wells River railroads. Alex
A. Milne, Frank Simonds, Jama Levie,
jr.. r'eter Alexander, Kaymond w ishart,
William Stuart and John Davidson. Mi
chael McDonald went to Roeton this
Washington, Oct. (. Major General
Goethals governor general of the Panama
canal, Commissioner Clark of tin; inter
state commerce commission and George
Rublee of the federal trade commission,
have been selected by President Wilson
as the three members of the board cre
ated bv Congress to investigate the
eight-hour law.
I The appointment of General Goethals
recalls the fact that on Sept. 1, 11)16, he
issued an order strictly limiting the
working hours of trainmen and switching
crews in the canal service to eight hours
and abolishing overtime. While the. dig
ging was the main feature of canal work
it has been customary for these employes
to be allowed overtime in going to and
from their work as their presence was
required on the ground to enable the men
who filled the cars to put in a full day.
The new order forbids overtime except
on explicit orders, and allows no ex
tra pay when extra work is performed,
this because the men are paid by the
month instead of by the hour. The ac
tion of General Goethals is thought to
be noteworthy in the, present connec
tion because the eight-hour conferences
in Washington were in full swing when it i
was being prepared and the Senate passed
the Adamson bill Sept. 2.
War Department Orders That Vermont
Troops Be Held at Fort Ethan
Allen for a Time.
Burlington, Oct 6. The mustering out
or the federal service of the First Regi
Iment of infantry, Vt. National Guard
which has been wing on at Fort Ethan
Allen since September 27, has been de
layed by orders received yesterday from
the war department, and the regiment
will probably not leave the fort before
Wednesday, October, 11. The mustering
out of the Vermont troops was to have
boen begun this morning and all of the
companies were to have left the fort by
Suturday afternoon. One battalion of
the regiment must lie mustered out and
sent home by Saturday afternoon in or
der to make room for I, K, L and M
troops Of the Second United States cav
alry, which left Plsttsburg. N. Y., to
day and will arrive at Forth Ethan Al
len on Sunday. Captain U. M. Diller,
U. S. A., the federal mustering out offi
cer, had not been able to so reconstruct
his schedule yesterday as to be certain
which battalion would be mustered out
first, but it is probable that the third
battalion, consisting of I company of
Brattlcboro, K company of Springfield, L
company of Newport and M company of
Burlington, will be mustered out and
sent home to-day oj to-morrow morning.
1 lie delay is caused by the decision of
the war department that the troops must
be sent to their home stations as organ
izations and not as individuals. Some
one in the headquarters ot the depart
ment of the east at Governor's Island,
N. Y., discovered that by so doing the
war department would have to pay only
the regular transportation rate for the
men, instead of the three and one-half
ents per mile, which they are allowed
for transportation to their home sta
tions, when sent there as individuals,
and also that about $200 freight charges
would be saved on the shipment of the
property of the several troops. The fact
that all of the detail work for the mus- j
tering out of the regiment, including the
difficult task of making out the regi
mental pay roll, would have to be done
over again was apparently not consul
ered, nor was thtf'fact that the extra
time the regiment must remain at the
fort would cost the government several
thousand of dollars for pay and sub
sistence. The men will also get an ex
tra week's pay from the state, this
amounting to approximately $3.13 per
day for the entire regiment, so that this
attempt to save a penny on transporta
tion will cost considerably more than t
pound, before everything is ended.
A regimental review in honor of Gov.
Charles W. Gates, who motored to Fort
Ethan Allen from Montpelier, was held
at 4 c, dock yesterday afternoon. The
governor was provided w ith a mount and
accompanied Colonel Reeves, when the
commanding officer made his tour of the
regiment, after which the troops passed
in review letore his excellency, who com
mented most favorably upon their splen
did apnea ranee. " The review was also
witnessed by a number of automobile
parties from this city.
PARALYZED
IN ACCIDENT
Justin Marshall of Stowe
Was in Auto Which
Struck Pole
ON MAIN HIGHWAY
NEAR WATERBURY
0. Stygles of Stowe, Driver
of the Car, Had One
Arm Broken
PLAN CO. H WELCOME.
GOETHALS WILL ACCEPT.
He Says He is an Officer of the Army and
It is His Duty to Obey.
New York, Oct. 6. Major General
George W. Goethals was asked yester
day if he would accept the position of
chairman of the commission which is to
investigate the workings of the eight
hour law. He said: "I am an officer in
the army. It is my duty to obey any
command the president may give me. I
had intended to retire. I am still under
orders."
General Goethals recently returned here
from the Panama canal, where he has
completed his work.
TALK OF THE TOWN
Ernest Tighini had things much to his
own liking when he invaded city hall yes
terday afternoon and caused such a com
motion among the attaches that the po
lice were asked to intercede. Piphini
seemed to be laboring under the delusion
that he had been shot through the heart,
although he was hard put to it to ex
plain how he could be stalking about
the building. This morning Officer J. S.
Murley took Pighini in custody and
locked him up at police headquarters.
Later the man was examined bv Health
Officer Dr. J. W. Stewart and Dr. F. X.
Z. Archambault, who represent the prop
erty committee. On their recommenda
tion Pighini was removed to the state
Montpelier Citizens Met Last Evening
and Named Committees.
Montpelier citizens met last evening
and formulated plans for a suitable re
ception to the members of Co. H who are
expected home from Burlington the first
of next week, probably Tuesday. W. A.
Puttee was chosen as chairman of the
temporary organization formed to have
charge of the welcome, J. (). W. Galaise
treasurer and L. A. Kelty secretary.
Three committees were selected, a dance
committee headed by Harry Moulton, pa
rade committee, Col. O. I). Clark chair
man, and finance committor with Alder
man J. P. Galleher as the head.
These committees will have charge of
all arrangements and will enlarge upon
the idea of having a parade Thursday
morning, Columbus d'.V, w-ith speeches to
be given in the city hall and a dance in
the. city hall auditorium to Co. H by the
citizens. The dance will be free, Carroll's
orchestra to furnish music and a cordial
invitation is extended to Barre, Water-
burv and other surrounding towns to at
tend, inasmuch as many members of the
company reside outside of Montpelier.
THREE MORE CASES; ONE DEATH.
Waterbury. Oct. 6. Justin Marshall of
Stowe was seriously injured about the
spine and U. Stygles of the same town
naa one arm broken when a Ford
automobile owned and driven bv the lat
ter crashed into a telephone pole on the
main nignway oetween Middlesex and
Waterbury late yesterday afternoon
both men being hurled out of the ma
chine. Marshall is now in the state hos
pital here and is completely paralyzed
below the hips, while Stygles was able
to go to his home last night.
the men were driving toward Water
bury at the time and had reached a point
near the new house of Fred Ravlin when
the machine went off the left side of the
road and collided with the pole, snapping
that on like a reed, 'the automobile
stayed right side up but was much bat-
ered up by the collision. Both oocu
pants were hurled out and Marshall was
unable to rise.
Word was brought to Waterburv by
an automobile party and Dr. G. L. Good
rich went at once to the scene of the
wreck, finding on arrival that the men
had been cared for by a Jonesville phy
sician who happened along. Both Mar
shall and Stygles were brought to Wa
terbury, the latter going to Eaton's sta
ble while the former was Harried to Dr.
Goodrich's office in D. W. Cooley's car.
Dr. H. XV. Barrows of Stowe was called
in consultation with Dr. Goodrich, as it
was seen that Marshall was in serious
condition. Great care was exercised in
moving him, and as it did not eem prob
able that he could stand a long journey
to a hospital he was carried to the state
hospital here. The physicians gave it as
their opinion that the man's spine was
dislocated.
Marshall is 4. years of age and was
employed in Stowe, where his aged par
ents reside. Stygles went to his home in
Stowe late last night and there his in
juries were attended to. mis auto
mobile had the hood jammed, the wind
shield "smashed and one door broken in
the impact with the telephone pole. It
is not known what caused the machine to
leave the road.
ACCIDENT VICTIM
SUCCUMBED TO-DAY
Arthur Isabelle, Aged 16, Was Hurt at
Quarries Saturday and Seemed to
Be Making Fair Progress
to Recovery.
BOSTON ALL AGOG
WITH EXCITEMENT
OVER BASEBALL
Vermont Infantile Paralysis Record Is
Growing,
Burlington, Oct. 6. With three more
cases of poliomyelitis nd another fa
tality reported to Dr. C. F. Dalton, sec
retary of the 'Vermont state board of
health yesterday, the total number of
cases in this state this year is now 34,
with seven deaths. One case, which has
been under suspicion at South Hero as
politmieylitis, was determined as a posi
tive case yesterday by Dr. Taylor, who
went to that town from this city, and
a new case was found in 'Grand Isle.
The other case is at Tinmouth. The fa
tality is the second in the Owens family
at Fair Haven, the young boy having
died yesterday morning when the paraly
sis destroyed respiration. This case was
i r no iitmo an t tin t sir I is KicTAr n-trt rito.f
hospital in Waterbury frit observation on September 28. being what 'is called a
this afternoon. At the end of two weeks
he will be given a hearing in probate
court.
County Agent F. II. Abbott returned
to Barre last night after holding an or
chard demonstration meeting at the farm
I progressive case, the paralysis having be
gun in the legs, spread to the arms and
lin:;lly stopped respiration.
The case in Tinmouth is that of Ernest
Twine, the five-year-old son of Mr. and
Mrs. Frank Twine. Both lees are also
Largest Attendance Ever Known i Ex
pected at the Opening Game of the
Series Saturday Red Sox
Trimming Up.
Boston, Oct. 6. Activities attendant
upon the opening of the world's scries to
morrow multiplied to-day.
Ihe Red Sox, at Braves field for fur
ther and sharper practice, participated in
a conference called by Manager Carri-
gan for the purpose of working out sig
nals and stategy. Ihe Brooklyn team
is not expected until late this afternoon.
The weather man has promised fine
weather to-morrow, with slightly cooler
temperature. The attendance at the first
game will be the largest in the history
of baseball, according to President Lan
nin of the Red Sox.
The national commission arrived to
day and met this afternoon to discuss
and approve plans for the games.
Arthur Isabelle, aged 16, of upper
Graniteville died at the City hospital this
morning at 0:25 o'clock, death resulting
after injuries received in an accident at
the Boutwell, Milne & Varnum quarries
in Graniteville Saturday afternoon. I lie
body was taken to the undertaking es
tablishment of Perry 4. Noonan in Depot
square and it is expected that funeral
services will be held in St. Sylvester's
church, Graniteville, either Sunday or
Monday morning. The parish priest,
Kev. Joseph lurcot, will officiate and in
terment will he made in the Catholic
cemetery on Beckley street.
Until yesterday his recove: v seemed cer
tain ami physicians interested in the case
were only waiting for the flesh around a
compound fracture of the right thigh to
heal before attempting to graft a seg
ment of bone on the limb. I'nder favor
able circumstances it was thought that
less than a fortnight would elapse be
fore the grafting process could be start
ed.
The immediate cans of the lad's death
was diagnosed bv the attending physi
cian as poisoning due to the presence of
gas bacilli.
loung Isabelle, employed as a steam
driller's assistant in quarry No. 1 at the
B. M. & V. quarries, was filling a pail
with dirt when the accident occurred
round 3:30 o'clock in the afternoon. The
dirt was to be used by the blast man in
amping for a blast and just as the boy
was about , to carry away the pail, a
block of granite weighing 2,000 pounds
lpped toward him. Evidently be did not
notice the stone in time to escape and his
right leg was caught between the block
nd another stone. A number of em
ployes hurried to his aseijtance and the
eavy stone was removed. After physi
cians had visited him at the quarry he
was quickly removed to the hospital.
Examination of the stone after the ac
cident indicated that it wa.; unsettled by
he soggy condition of fhe turf on which
t rested. -Rain fell heavily on the night
preceding the accident and it was thought
hat the action of the water was repon-
ible for the undermining of the dirt
here the stone lay.
Because of the serious nature of the
break it was at first feared that amputa-
ion would le necessary, but when a spe
cialist visited the hospital Sunday and
examined the patient he confirmed the
pinion of the attending physicians that
grafting operation might save the limb.
Isalelle was the son of Mr. and Mrs.
apoleon Isabelle. He was born in Gran-
eville April 21, inon, and iint.il he en
tered the employ of Boutwell, Milne &
arnum a short time ago he was a pupil
n the convent of the Holy Ghost in
raniteville. He was a likable lad and
possessed qualities that made him a
prime favorite with the quarrymen. Be
sides his parents, he is survived by a
sister. Mis Annie Isabelle and four
brothers. Napoleon Isabelle, Isidore Isa
belle. Jules Isabelle of Graniteville and
Frank Isabelle.
IS LAST CASE
FOR JURY TRIAL
State vs. Eusebio Albany
Will Wind Up Crim- ;
inal Docket
JLRORSE USED,
SUBJf . TO RECALU
Defense' jt on Evidencq
To-df ? n Assault with J
In- H to Kill Case
Jurors not engaged in hearing the case
of State vs. Eusebio Albano, charged
with assault with intent to kill, were no
tified yesterday afternoon by Judga
Frank L. Fish that they were excused,
subject to call, and all left for their re
spective homes last night and this morn
ing. State's Atty, Gleaaon informed the
court that only one criminal case would!
be tried, the one now in progress, and as
me civn case-g were completed early in
the week only chancery and divorce cases
remain to be heard. There were 12 civil
cases tried during the term, which com
menced Sept. 13, but which did not get
down to business until several days lat-
VERM0NT POSTMASTERS FINED.
McGRAW TO STICK.
Will Manage New York Giants Next
Year.
New York, Oct. 6. John McGraw will
continue to manage the New York Na
tionals next year despite any reports to
the contrary, according to John B. Fos
ter, secretary of the club. "McGraw al
ready has gone over plans for next year
with President Hempstead and has high
hopes of leading the New York club to
the pennant," Foster said.
FUNERAL OF G. E. C. WHEAT0N.
of A. N. Stratton at North Montpelier j paralyzed in this case. The child has
yesieraay. .anout i; farmers were in
attendance at the meeting. Mr. Abbott
took for demonstration a couple of apple
trees which are the same j.ge and stand
side by side in the Stratton orchard,
with the same care as far as the soil is
concerned, but one of which was pruned
and sprayed last spring while the other
never was touched. lesterdav they
picked the apples from the two trees, w it h
the one which had been sprayed and
pruned bearing one-half bushel of nice
large and well colored apples, while the
other bore four under-sized apples. Mr.
Abbott gave the members of the asso
one other brother and a sister, who up
to last evening had shown no symptoms
of the disease. How the child became
infected with the germ is not known. One
memler of the family had been to Paw
let, where there has been one case, but
not in close proximity to that case.
CAUSED BY LANTERN EXPLOSION.
Fire Destroyed Two Barns and Silo in
Huntington.
Huntington, Oct. 6. The big barn, the
corn barn, and silo on the Grant Kenyon
Was Held Yesterday Afternoon from His
Late Home.
Funeral services for George E. C.
Wheaton, descendant of one of Barre's
earliest pioneering families, whose death
occurred at his home, 12 Kinney street,
Monday night, were held at the house
Thursday afternoon at 2 o'clock, Rev.
J. W. Harnett, pastor of the Barre Con
gregational church, officiating. Those
who acted as bearers are: Elmer Owen,
Kdward Carleton, George A. Reed, diaries
Reed, George Gill and Clarence Dudley.
Mrs. Gladys Bradley sang two selections.
There was a profusion of (lowers, in
cluding a tribute from Cobb Hill prange.
many members ot which organization
were present. Interment was made in
the family lot in Elmwood cemetery.
They Misplaced United States Funds to
a Small Amount.
Rutland, Oct. 6. In United States dis
trict court yesterday, Judge Harland B.
Howe of St. Johnsbury disposed of three
j criminal cases in w hich the respondents
were ready to plead guilty. A. J. Hub
bard of Tyson was fined $."0 for opening
a letter not addressed to him and Sylves
ter Smith, postmaster at Hubbardton,
was fined $50 and L. H. Spaulding of
Bridgewater. postmaster, was taxed $23
for technical embezzlement of postoftice
funds.
The offense against the postmasters
was misplacing postofHee money. In one
case the respondent used a small amount
temporarily as a matter of convenience in
his mercantile business, when he pos
sessed an ample amount to make the
sum taken good, and in the other the ac
cused merely placed the money in the
wrong receptacle. The shortage w as very
small in Mr. Smith's case and there was
none in the case of the Bridgewater man.
Judge Howe expressed the opinion that
there should not be law making such
a technical offense punishable oy a tine.
The time in court yesterday was tak
en up with the testimony in the negli
gence case against the National Metal
Box Edge company of Readsboro in w hich
Livio Francheschetti's administrator
seeks to recover for the death of Livio,
a boy of five, by drowning, in the defend
ant's canal. The plaintiff contends that
the canal was not properly guarded. 1 he
defense claims trespass and declares that
it was not bound by law to put up a
guard rail the entire length of a canal.
The state rested at 10 o'clock this fore
noon in the Albano case, four witnesses
being called by the state, Officer Harry
Gamble, of Barre, Deputy Sheriff Henry
Lawson of Montpelier, Luigi Cheruti ani
Charles Grace of Barre.
Officer Gamble told of making a trip
to New York City several davs after tha
Webster avenue trouble and there he lo
cated the respondent. It was on July 11
that he arrived back in Montpelier with
his prisoner. Albano returned willingly
with the officer.
Deputy Lawson submitted a bundle of
clothing which Cheruti subsequently tes
tified as having been the outside clothing;
which he had worn when Albano shot)
him in the arm.
Charles Grace, the last witness to be
put on the -stand by the prosecution, re
sides on Webster avenue and he told of
hearing two shots fired on the Sunday
morning in question. Attracted by tho
sound, he hurried from hi3 home to tho
Albano house and. entering by the front
door, discovered Albano prone upon tha
floor, held down by Cheruti, who had Al
bano by the throat. Grace said ha
grasped Cheruti by the coat collar and
pulled him to bis feet, Albano being;
pulled up at the same time. Cheruti
then pushed Albano through the door
into the street. The witness said than
Albano did not exhibit any eigne of fight
when he arrived on the scene, in fact ho
appeared too weak to put up any resist
ance to Cheruti. The revolver had dis
appeared when Grace came upon the two
men.
The counsel for the respondent had six: .
witnesses, including two women, sworn
before he commenced introducing evi
dence in behalf of the respondent, Albano
not being included, so that it is possihlo
he may not be placed on the stand. Tha
case should be completed to-day as re
gards the introduction of evidence.
COULDN'T NAME ASSAILANTS,
RECEPTION TO NEW TEACHERS
ciation present a talk on the marketing 'arm were .lest roved by fire early yester-
lont day morning, the result oi an explosion
problem which the farmer in Vermont
to-day has to contend with, and the ad
vantages that may come providing the
market situation is handled in a better
way. The question of orchard treat
ment and orchard cultivation was dis
cussed and also the fall work in the or
chards. To-day Mr. Abbott will go to
of a
lantern.
DELEGATES TO A. F. OF L.
Henry Alexander of Barre Will Be One of
the Two from G. C. I. A.
Alex Russell of Quincy and Henry
Alexander of Barre h been elected
delegates and with Sec. James Duncan
Mr. Kenyon went to the barn to feed j will represent the G. C. I. A. at the an-
his horses between four an I five o'clock
jeop!e in the village saw the flames at
rive o'chx-k and men. summoned by tele
phones and automobiles, rushed to the
farm. But the fire was raring so fu-
morning. A majority oi the local I ans jlnixbury. where he will meet the mem-jri"uly that there was no chance of sav
hare ben fortunate enough to secure I bers of the Duxbury grange and give ajini: the buildings. The horses and some
reservation. lecture this evenirj at the grance fair, of the tools were saved.
nual convention of the American Federa
tion of Labor in Baltimore this fall.
Was Given at the Spaulding Assembly
Hall Last Evening.
A reception in honor of the new teach
ers in the Barre public schools was giv
en at the rpauiuing assembly nan last
evening by those who have taught in
Barre previous to this year, and the oc
casion proved to be very enjoyable. In
addition to the public school teachers,
there were present the faculty of God-
lard seminary and the Iocu school com
missioners, making a number approxi
mately 100.
A tine program was given, consisting
of the following numbers: Vocal solo,
Miss Arlene Jeffords; piano solo. Miss
Elizabeth Carson; vocal solo. Miss Hazel
Hack; mandolin duet. Miss Mabel Taylor
and E. J. Dole: vocal solo. Miss Lucy
Mack. At the close of the program Car
roll's orchestra played for dancing.
MONTPELIER
Napoleon Fraser of Montpelier Was Left
on Railroad Track.
Napoleon Fraser of Main street, Mont
pelier. a granite manufacturer, with
plant located in the Pioneer district, was;
found about 9:30 o'clock last evening in;
a semi -unconscious condition on tha
tracks of the Montpelier 4 Wells River
railroad near the roundhouse at Mont-i
pelie.r. Fraser was bleeding freely trom.
a severe cut in his head and appeared to
have sustained painful lacerations and:
bodv bruises. This morning he was rcst-j
ing comfortably at his home and will
probably recover quicsly although anoth-i
er examination may reveal a broken,
shoulder.
The police were summoned to the scene i
and with Dr. XV. R. Harkness made tho
trip in an automobile. They assisted
Fraser into the machine and hurried him.
to his home on Main street, where his in-
juries were treated. According to tha
police, Fraser appeared to have been
drinking and was not able to explain the
cause of his predicament although he in-;
timated that he had been engaged in a,
fight and had "met a better man."
To-day, however, Fraser told the po-.
lice he had been at his omce during in
evening, had quarrelled with a former;
partner and then started for home down
track. Near Putnam street he had1
been assaulted by four men and left
nearly unconscious on the tracks. He
was iuiable to name any of his alleged'
assailants.
NATIVE OF WAITSFIELD.
lv
George A. Joslyn, Who Died Wednesday,
Was Multi-MiUiooaire.
nm.K. Vh.. Oct. 6. George A. Jos-,
rn, president and principal stockholder
f the Western Newspaper union died;
Wednesday at his home nere. ne .i
been in failing health for a number of
years Mr. Joslvn was a pioneer m tha
readvprint business, in which h
- ' . r . c;mtt at. from
ammasel a iimnm- i--v... -
$8,000,000 to $10,000,000.
Mr Joslvn was Dorn in
nd from there went to Canada. He be-
... . . . . i i
can his misiness
been he remained for about twelve jears, vnt
wnere ne irarnrHx
by
Miss Pauline Rvan. who has
spending several weeks in the city with Lning to Ies Moines, la . where he leal
r.ia;,.. ift ,;. (..,.,...,.. t..r ' vi, h. I .irintimr trade while employed
burg, Mats. (the Iowa Printing company. After that.
Rev. Lewis C. Carson, pastor of the I Mr. Jolvn went to Omaha, Neb., which.
Church of the M.-esiah. returned this lever since had been his home and it was
morning fr m Springfield. Mass.. whcrejtl.ere that he built up his big fortune.
he attended a mini-ters' institute. He organized the business wnicn eieni-
John K. Dobbs and Mrs. IMbbs lefthiallv became the vveslern .-Newspaper
this noon for Boston, where thev will 'union an 1 from which later more man
visit relatives fr a few davs and t- j trprty houses outside of Omaha have fur-
I tend the worlis scries. James Kord. j nilied publishers with supplies. .Mr. Jos-
William A. Reilly is bark from a bus- who is enjovins a week s vacation fro;n:yti. in hU thor interest, operated two
iness trip to Burlington. jhis duties in tiie Nati nnl Life ln-.ur-I hotels in Omaha. He and his wife were
Holy hour and October devotion et-anee company, went t d y to Bt n con-idcred as philanthropists, so much
St. Monica's church this evening at 7:31 jand attfii.-l the butcbatf garm-s th-reUid thry do for the public welfare ia
o'clock. and at Brooklj n. O,
1
