MEW MEXICO STAT)
RECORD
$1.50 A YEAR.
SANTA FE NEW MEXICO, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1916.
NUMBER 106
$45,000 FOR M'DONALD'S
GAME WARDEN $2,500 FOR
FISH, BIRDS, AND GAME
"JOBS FOR DESERVING DEMOCRATS" TURNS OUT TO BE
A COSTLY LUXURY FOR THE PEOPLE OF NEW MEX
ICO WHO PAY THE BILLS
REMARKABLE PERFORMANCE OF
TRINIDAD CABEZA DE BACA
NEPHEW OF THE DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATE FOB GOV.
EENOR, WHO IN THE FIRST NINE MONTHS OF 1916,
HAS SPENT MORE PUBLIO MONET PROVIDING HIS
FATHER-IN-LAW WITH A JOB THAN FOR PROPAGA
TION OF FISH, GAME, AND BIRDS
Trinidad Cabeza do liana, nephew of the Democratic candidate
tor Governor ot Now Mexico, is a "deserving Democrat." Trinidad is
a favorite with tho McDonald administration. II" iid not get onto th
job as Fish and (lame Warden of New Mexico for several months ai'tgr
William 0. McDonald became Governor. There were several iiindi
dates for the office; some from the Pecos Valley, some from Colfax
County, some from among sterling Democrats in Albuquerque. Suv
eral of those men were real experts in fish and name preservation and
propagation. Suveral were true enthusiasts for tho work; sportsmeu
like Tom P. Cable, the last Republican incumbent of tho office, who
did the work lor the love of it, and did it thoroughly, and well.
Governor Mi Donald, In a recent speech in I'osweli, said that he
knew K. C. do liaca, the Democratic candidate for Governor, better
than any other man knew him, and that if tie liaca were elected, he
would make the same kind of a Governor that he, McDonald, had
been. In view of McDonald's course with the Game Wardou, this is
readily believable. There is no doubt that 15. C. do liaca, as Gov
ernor, would pick a Cabeza de Baca for every available Job. McDon
ald set him tho example, and the kinsman of ail the other Cabeza de
Bacas would not be likely to go astray.
McDonald picked Trinidad Cabeza de liaca from a list of appli
cants some of whom were competent. De Baca was late in gelling
into the Job, but he has made up for lost time.
It is now about four years since Trinidad C. de liaca became our
Game Warden. During that time DB BACA HAS SI'ENT $13,014.72
of PUBLIC MONEY, most of it collood from the sportsmen of this
tate for fishing and hunting licenses. Ob' THIS SUM DB BACA
HAS SPNT LESS THAN $2,500 for tho propagation of fish, birds
and game. To be exact he has spent for these purposes $2.2i1.02.
THE REST OP THE MONEY $41,253.70 has lieen blithely spent
by this Democratic model of public efficiency in ever-incroasing
"traveling and .Incidental expenses," incurred by himself, by his more
favored deputies, by his father-in-law and in salaries to favored friends
and relatives, and In the running of his office, the cost of which has
mounted to amazing figures. -
What the. sportsmen of New Mexico think of this dissipation of
thousands of dollars which they have contributed to the Fish and
Game Department annually, through purchase or licenses to fish
aad hunt, la shown in the earnest protests they have made to Mc
Donald for a change in the' warden. They have told the Governor
that de Baca is misusing the fish and game funds--and they have
proved It to him. They have requested him with tears in their eyes
tD replace do Baca with a more sportsmanlike warden, or at least
with an official who had some conception of the duties of the job.
But de Bacaa is a "deserving Democrat'' and petitions and pro
tests have proven unavailing. McDonald has slood pat. Ho has de
clined to remove de Baca or to do or say anything to him that would
make him quit "traveling" and supporting his henchmen at the ex
pense of the sportsmen of this state. The squandering of the money
has gone along uninterrupted.
Not only sportsmen but all citizens interested in preservation of
animal and bird life and the proper expenditure ol public money would
like to know why the DemfJcratii game and fish warden has aMo.ved
only a meagre $2.2fi 1 .02 to be spent for fish and game, out of a total
expenditure of $43,14.72 which the paid vouchers in the state audit
tor's office show de Baca has spent.
The Inquiry becomes still more pertinent when it is shown Hint in
the same period Game Warden do Baca drew, in addition to his
alary, $5,926.11 as personal "expenses"; also that the cost of salaries
for his deputies had totaled $12,419.84 aud their expenses" the sunt
sum of $3,142.07.
The Fish and Game Department hits no rent to pay in tho rit de
Capitol. Yet the office "expense" for do Baca's incumbent y of thi
free spending job totals for tho period $7.":Vo;i, of which nn!y$7S.y.3J
la for postage
Warden do Baca has managed to spend thousands for traveling
"expenses" and to pay his father-in-law, Manuel Sosaya, $2.00 a day
here it is again and "expenses" to act bs a special deputy. Hut
hardly a cent for trout, black has, quail, pheasants and game propaga
tion. In some months this highly efficient Democratic official has
paid out more money for "horse feed" for father-in-law's horse than
he has Invested into fish and game for the benefit of the sportsmen
and the re-stocking of the forests.
Before de Baca became warden $3,371.81 sufficed to run the game
and fish department for a whole year, being less than half the amount
of money which Tom P. Cable used for re stocking forests and streams.
All salaries and expenses were included in that total of the last
Republican game warden.
IN THE FIRST NINE MONTHS OF 1916 WARDEN DE BACA
USED UP $10,852.70 FOIt SALARIES AND EXPENSES AND HE
ACTUALLY PERMITTED $203.87 TO BE USED FOR THE PUR
CHASE ANO DISTRIBUTION OF FISH AND GAME.
These are statements drawn from the public records of this state
This stupendous total of $203.87 is LESS THAN ONE-THIRD OF
WHAT DE BACA'S FATHER-IN-LAW. SOSAYA, HAS DRAWN THUS
FAR THIS YEAR IN WAGES AS A "SPECIAL, DEPUTY." The war
den's relative has dipped Into the fish and game fund to the tune of
$650. 00 for salary aud $247.00 Tor "expenses" since January 1, 1916.
Warden do Baca's own personal expense account "travel and In
cldentals" this year has already passed tho mark of $2.331. r.0. This
"deserving Democrat" has become more expensive every year since
he began holding office and as he found himself more and more in
harmony with the McDonald administration and its standards for the
conduct of public business. The first year he was warden 19H his
personal expense account was $858.80. In 1914 it was about the same
but in 1915 he had learned his way about In the McDonald scheme of
spending public money and the expense account amounted to $1,891.16.
From that it was but a step to $2,331.50 in the short period of the
first nine months of 1916.
More than a year ago, de Baca, who is as careful In looking after
relatives and friends as is McDonald in providing Jobs for "deserving
Democrats," was allowed an office deputy, In addition to the thief
deputy already allowed him. Still he has charged the state $773.50
for "extra office work" In the last two years. It almost suggests the
supposition that de Baca has worked day and night shifts of relatives
or friends, or both. In order to keep up with his duties as a "deserving
Democrat," while the fish and game and birds have been left to shift
for themselves. .
The fish, the game and the birds have the misfortune not to be
"deserving Democrats" or to have a stand-in with the McDonald inner
circle of political favorites.
Ask the fishermen and the hnnters of this state what they think
of de Baca's admin N:tion or the Fish and Game Department, and
of the Governor who will n-t lift a finger to Improve conditions. They
will tell you, in pure, blniij.!:t language. s
What do you think of a fish and game warden who draws I2.331.S0
for "personal expenses" in nine months, and In the same period spends
$203.87 for the real purposes of his dcpartmentT
What do you think of an official of a struggling young state who
in addition to himself has a chief deputy and an office deputy and
who still spends more money each year for "extra office work than
he spends for the real purposes ot his department?
What do you think of a fish and game warden who spends the
fnnds contributed by the sportsmen of this state for the protection
of fish and game, in providing salaries and "expense accounts" for
relatives and friends?
What do you think of a Governor who will sit quietly by. Ignore
petitions and protests of the men who have a right to protest, and
who calmly permits this waste of public money to proceed with his
knowledge and tacit approval.
De Baca has spent $43,614.72 1b about four yean. Of this $2,561.02
has gone into fish and game. The rest has gone Into the maintenance
of De Baca, bis office, his relatives and friends.
ON THE TRAIL OF HIS SECOND TERM
- o "'vU '"""i 1
I
I
essential to the advancement and de
velopment of the state's best in
terests. Col. Jose D. Sena served as inter
preter. Benigno C. Hernandez candidate for
congress, devoted the greater part
of his address to the discussion of
national questions, dwelling at some
length upon the administration
ipolicy as regards to the Republic
of Mexico. Hernandez has just re
turned from a second visit into the
Taos country. ,
Governor and Mrs. I.. I!. Prince
will leave today fur Flushing, l!ong
Island. The altitude of Santa Fe is
too high for Mrs. Prince, who finds
it impossible to remain here for
more than a couple of months at a
time. Governor Prince will return
in a week or so and will probably
take an active part in tile latter
end of the campaign on tile Repub
lican side. A lorge number of his
friends in Rio Arriba county are
discussing him for the state senator
shin from that county. The exten
sive general, judicial and legislative
experience of the governor gives him
splendid equipment tor the position
and Kio Arriba county will ma ki
no mistake if the honor is confer
red upon him.
HARBINGEN SAYS
REPUBLICANS ARE
THE BEST LIARS
SGOTTIH RITE
22ND REUNION
ON THIS WEEK
MORE CANDIDATES AND VI
SITORS THAN EXPECTED
ARE HERE FOR DEGREES
AT THE
BIG BUILDING
OF THAT ORDER
MANY VISITORS WILL GO ON
TO LAS VEGAS FOE THJE
GRAND LODGE MEETINGS
WHICH WILL BE HELD
THERE NEXT WEEK
I Following the nmn ;il r
' wi-iliii-sihtv t'vi'itm at whir1!
. lnNiuti fill Si'ottM) Kid- ("uili
i thrown opi'tt to vNit
! rare! to avail themselves
uitf l he lnh class musical
OR HOW TO USE A FRIEND
LIE AND
DE BACA UNFIT
FOR GOVERNOR
SAN MIGUEL COUNTY LEAD
ER, ON STUMP IN GUADA
LUPE COUNTY, RELATES
AMAZING INCIDENT
HE ATTEMPTED TO
SHOOT HIS BROTHER
MAN WHO DEMOCRATS HAVE
SOUGHT TO BRAND AS
"SORE," MAKES RINGING
CAMPAIGN FOR BURSUM
AND REPUBLICAN TICKET
(3y Guthrie Smith.)
Albuiiuerijue, N. M., Oct. 5. Guada
lupe county wim not to be outdone by
other couiiuus iu the mutter of into
eat shown by its citizens in the ad
dresses made by the members of the
Republican campaign party, which has
closed the tour of that county. In ad
dition to. the candidates for the three
principal offices, II. O. Bursuni for
governor, Frank A. llubbell for the
United States senate and Benigno U.
Hernandez for representative, iu con
gress, the parly was joiued at Las
Vegas by fcjecundino Romero, who
sought the nomination for governor,
and O. A. Larrasoio, who developed a
strong following in the convention lor
the nomination for ju.uice of the su-,
prenie court, though he declared to
the end that he was no more than a
receptivo candidate.
Whether the meetings were held in
the morning or afternoon, iu the bu.sy j nUIllpr'0
public that he was "sore, "and would
deliberately plunge the knife right
through the heart of the ticket.
Backs Ticket Strongly.
At every ono of the six meeting
held In Guadalupe county he made
speeches in which he made a Btrong
plea for support ot the Republican
ticket, national and state. His en'
dorsement of Bursum was especially
powerful. Declaring that he was per
fectly contented with the will of the
convention, he declared that Bursum
Is admirably fitted for the most im
portant duties of governor, in that he
is big hearted, level headed, of the
strictest integrity and better informed
than any other mun as to the needs
of the state. He also spoke in the
highest terms of Frank A. Hubbell,
who, as one of the biggest business
men In the southwest, would ably rep
resent Now Mexico In the senate, and
of Benigno C. Hernandex, .who has
been capable and alert in serving the
best interests of the people in the
lower house of congress.
However, he did not stop with an
endorsement of his own ticket. He
pointed out what he declared to be a
glaring fault or weakness In E. C. de
Baca, who has been named by tho
Democratic party for the work of
chief executive.
"Mr. de IJncsi la temperamentally i
unfitted for the worlt of (lie high of-!
fice to w hich he aspires. ' declared Ito-1
mero, as he spoke in Suunlsh to
the peoplo. "Me Is vindictive and re-j,
vengeful to an alarming extent and is
too likely to resort to dangerous and
extreme methods when his anger is
aroused."
Romero's Amazing Charge.
Romero then related an Incident
which he declared proved the unrelia
bility and unfitness of de Baca. Ho
said that some years ago. In Las
Vegas, do Baca's father was a candi
date on the Republican tickot. At a
Joint meeting which was held, Manuel
C. de Baca, brother of tho Democratic
nominee for governor, made a speech
in which he asked for (lie support of
the Republican candidate. Koninro
said this so Infuriated E. C. de Baca
that ho pulled his pistol and tried to
shoot his own brother. "A man who
will try to kill his own brother for no
other reason than that he had Pup
ported their father, who sought office
on another political ticket, certainly !
cannot be trusted to administer the eiven iu tl
nlfairs of this great stute," Romero. A few local
LARGE CROWD
AT GALLUP HEAR
REPUBLICANS
MCKINLEY COUNTY WILL
ROLL UP LRGEST flEPU
BLICAN MAJORITY IN ITS
HISTORY
' i' il on
.i:ie the
Irul was
rs who
ot hear-ttrni'min
DEMOCRATS TELL LIES AND the degree work began promptly at
PAWT PPfWU TR7M PP i ';',"ck " Thursday morning-.
CAN T FKOVE THEM, KE- The local Scottish Rite Masons
had not anticipated an aUttidauce
of over forty or forty-five at this
DEMOCRATS i reunion, hut were very agreeably sur-
IpriMNj to turn tnat tilty-tnr'e ap
THEIR LIES ARE TRUE iplicants responded and are enjoying
I the hospitality of the rit - and the
j heaut iful ceremonies which the con-
.. ,,. v. ., fcrring of the degrees embrace.
Santa Kita, N. M. j .... .. .. ... , ., , , .
(let kl Sitm-,l 1 " L111" wilt jiiuuduiy select ll
Deer Sir Slapeling:
I dident get no time to rite you last
weak so i wil now.
PUBLICANS
PROVE BY
i gess its no us to tri and fite a
nuespapcr nohow for you nouskru
piiius fellers never stop at uuthin,
and danged if i dont belcvc you
noospapers are awl standin in to
gether too skin Gov. Mac and De
Baka so i am goin to ask a qucstyun
that i bet i'll get yure gotc alrite
only im goin to say furst that ime
stil fcr Mac aud i dont giv a konten
nentcl wurd who noes it. a trend is
no trend that dont stand up fer a
trend when lies down so ime standin' I
up whil Macs down anil i dont hesi
president, secretary and orator to
day, it being a practice of all classes
tints far to form a class or or.ga
n; t'on of their own
The reunion will continue until late
Saturday evening, after which those
in attendance will scatter and a very
large number of them will assemble
in I.as Vegas on Monday for the
meeting of the Masonic Grand Lodge
which will be held there next week
followed by the meeting of the
Grand Chapter, the Grand Comtnan
dcry and the Grand Chapter of the
Fasti rn Star of New Mexico, all
of which mce'ings will :-ut!ve-
v occupy the it. tire week
The fiftv-thr-e member.-, and tie
ENTIRE TICKET
CLUBS BEING ORGANIZED IN
COLFAX COUNTY; BIG TAOS
AUDIENCE HEARS HER
NANDEZ AND SENA; CAM
PAIGN GENERALLY LIVELY
Charh
Charles
Samuel
George
soil ItiH:
Mrown.
Gallisrh
s M. Rarbcr, Ai!miiern,ue ;
I'.iirtoii Barker, Santa Fe;
Arthur Barnes, Tnctimrari;
Bin, mi, Tncumrari ; Karl Nel
le. Santa Ke : Thomas Coburii
S'H-nrrn; Stnnlev Grant
. Muntriva: Fred Gimobcll,
Ke
tills, and
that
can-
Special to the Slate Record
Gallup, N. M., Uct. I, Tht
publican nicciing held here
evening was I n Vly attended
one of the nmst enthusiastic
has vet greeted the Republican
didatcs. Between 5l) and 600 heard
the speaking and many other could
not find room iu tile large hall.
H. O. Bursum, candidate for gov
ernor, was warmly received by all
Republicans and not a lew Deni
i tat to sa i stil thin kit was a rotten : I,-;,!, ties from v rich thev nail
trik fer you fellers to g'o an dig up a-, fellows:
:Macs reckeru like you did and prov
Ithat he lide by hiz on letters when
j lie was only makin a spech. i dident
i think so then but i no now that Mar
rone and Paxtonc wuz rite when
they muved to cxkliide all rcpublt
kins and winntic'i an nuo.ipaper Tit
ers an cverbodie in the kmivcushun
hal out an jes have Deuiikrat?.. Then
in that c.'is thered a bin nobodie that
cud have rilten M.trs spech di-wn an
what he scd cud not a bin brot out
only by word of motitlic and that
end a ben denidc and yon never wood
a had aiiytliiu oil him.
But now the way it is ime fer Mac
alrite yet but when we cbarg liiir.siim
with lclin five tiiuusiii dolars lie stole;
von kuni hak and eharg Mac witli
letiu Smith an I.ewelyn and I'axtone
an .sum moure danifnles that dident i
have cents cnuf to kno theved get
caught with steelin 75 thousin and
then prove it hi his on jelh kned ap-
ointes that dident hav nurve cnuf to'
stand up but went down there an :
Silvi r Citv: William Herring Chris-
man, V'trr; K'ev Rohiiisoti Cut'er,
Ittirlev: l'"iun:ihl I'.-irhen Doimhoo,
Tm uiiii-ari : A'hcrt F.dward Dorff,
Santa Fe : Harold lliurh VMwards,
Sat
ml.,
Gie'i n.
(
bank examined with Mac and when
ocrats. who do not propose to stand !"'V "'"" 11 r. , "'.,',1t eetl so,Ci;fi
for the McDona:l-dc Uaca-Ulet o 111 u3 i(.:in
rci.il: Arthur Wertheim Gol
Tuemnrari : Henry Hair
Snringer; Fdwanl - lo'pli
Tvmnc : Owen Nc-vl-'n
Gailioi. l'r.-el- W'ilniot Gnr-irrio-
George Ifoffinn:,
Wither !!;!, Uiii Jacobs, 'vl-
: Light ! leasant lames, TVs
Moines: Charles Irvine Jones. Fast
las Yeeas: t harles Seward Jovnt,
K'ta: Francis I.. T.awther, Koehler;
Alexander Smith McCain. int. Coro
na: T'om-s Crav!ev Martin, Fstan
eia: F.hvnrd Flovd Mitchell. Albu-
C
Mud-Bucket aggregation. Then when we aktise llubel with
Frank A. llubbell and J. il. Wag- margin up .1.1 nais at tiv ciei. rs a na
ncr also spoke and their remarks moreii there is iu a year you guyes
and tile candidates themselves were
otierone; Arelnliald ( icnree Morrow,
Limes Thomas Morton. Tiicum
Fr.'iek Lawrence Xorm.iii. Snn-
concluTled
"Are you willfng to have your ar
raignment of do I'. 'ca sent out In my
repons to the newspapers?" I askal
part of the harvest season, or pro
longed until l:vs in inc. morning, the
voters were present in large numiters,
oiteu accompanied by their wives, sis-
warnilv received.
Mckinley county will roll up the
largest Republican majority ever
history ot the county.
Democrats arc trying
jhard to stem the title but are re
ceiving very little assistance from
j their state committee and campaign
1 crs and it is an open ouestion whe
ther the Democratic candidates
Invites de Baca to Joint Debate.
"Willing for you to inaUe the re
ports," lie said, "mid I will be glad for
you to do 50. I b"tieve the people of
leir that Macs man Trinnvdad tb
Baka got awa with almt d' lers
.11 that I.nsero pa le hiz famlc 15.1 XX)
dolcrs and pruve the hole thing by
them cochccrs that Scargcnt keps,
and get our own yeler streaked noos
papers to print yogr dam Ives which
are ten times as big as ours an wiVh
vou prov by orr on felers when we
Kant pruv onr- by nnyhnde.
Wede like to skin Sear'.ent to an
get him oi't butt with nobode aeint
le
A'le
Mom,.-Wi'lin
rr.r.:
I.,
than tbev brought m if they took
would not drive awav more voters him wc got no sho, so if we clekt
an active part in the campaign here, baka wc'l hav the same nionkie w"ik
It rertrtitt flint if tbev tint on the filtetl the tnntii.. im! we had with
ters and daughters, and they remained: .,, ,,' ' ...,, , n ,,,:.,., i i, ,,f - nnid-bncket" cam- the rode mrmie an hav to eo to l-,w
careful liateuurs until the close of the avajl.,ble illlorniut:on that concerim I paign here that tl.fv did In the an then cverbodic'll n, al abot it an
meeting, i-roin Anton Chico on tne j t)ie lum who Pel;3 tnoir p.,ort or jccs they will be the losers I y . we kant use it when we get it.
VUt7 OJUl, V1JII UYl'l I U l' Ull uUliMvt 1 j
rrr m rmiit I orill ha rl 11 .1 tit m not Hf
the southeastern corner the pec-plaj (,e l)aca jn R int lobate at any tmie
wanted to see the candidates and to I d at ,ac(, ,hat 8U nia
hear a full expression of the policies ,.i 1 ,... h.iun. in
and principles for which the candl- .... ,,',,., 1 am no, rPmlv nd
willing to say to his face. If he can
disprove the charges that I have
made, I desire that he Khali have that
privilege, an l for that reason I invite
i a joint debate."
dates are standing.
Romero Leader of Campaign Party.
The feature of the swing through
Guadalupe county which perhaps sur
prised many people particularly of
the opposition more than any other,
m-aa tlio attitn.tonf Qoei.ndinn Rrttnorn
who made a most vigorous campaign MILLER ESTABROOK AND
for the nomination for governor. Inj GILBERT TO SPEAK HERE
the state convention, held at Santa 1
Fe on August 23 and 24, Romero Hon H B EsUbrook of Ntw
showed his unswerving. allegiance tojYork b(t ,are, intere5tt.d and W
the party and the bigness of his heart, known in the Northwest and one of
in the speech which he made lmme-, he finMt onttors in the United
diate y after the vote was announced Stat is in thc state in the interest
showing Bursuin the winner. Theif w -...m
San Miguel delegation occupied front dent and wj speak jn'Las Vegas I
it. Wei the fiiieshim ime conn.i n-l
'that i bet vou dont anser is nt polv-
Mora For Straight Ticket. tickcl butt' iz about the Mexican (an
Special to the State Record. j ,,,,,-ty nmeh kno yon stand in cn-
Mora, N. M., Oct. 2. The meeting boots enz i run a noospapcr onct an
held iif this county the latter part; stud in) is whit the Mexican that
last week by thc Republican cam-was probisbun thcr last year an maid
naipners demonstrated the fact that, thc capeol dryc doz with tne bear it
in Rita: idnev Titt. Roswcll : Ain.'S
V-ber I'o'l-.rd. Dentin": Arthur L.
V-dloek. T'eho, : TaCol, Postu r. O-rs-:
t T. -li ri ,-tnier..tt Rumba '1. llurlev;
l.lvrtfi lb trace Sabin, 1! m rj ti'nii'-;
"il'i.fl C Sea s. Des
V Ins ',..;..-
tor Sells. F;,-t I as 'etr, : S!;:t
:' -;i.-t-. 7 ..-.! i'!" g : i
r Sliiitti .Tn, San 11 Fe ; ' f r
V'n. frro".-: 'bert H
S-ni'cv. l":'-t T:f
Tolot Sft:' rretil e r :
ks-l S'-;iml. 11:
;...,-:,. t",,-; M . ,' '
W 'o 1... t. Tvrt.it, : II
V-ilt.T Albuo -t -ifir : W'V
1 01 W'rtgatttl. Ctter'-' :
I'i -l.ar.1.-." V .0,1. C, t!i.!t
Wri-'-. S'.rittgir
7 1111. " ut'iiitirari.
Arthr
Karl
rdo-
.'im
rk-
g.is- A.tt.
Helen;
-r Taroli
GettUVt-
v Fitger;
i.--.. far-A-
-lol.M.f
11 ei'das
V.r-.hni
HON. W. H. CHRISM N
FOR STATE SENATOR
T!n t'ii'ili. or choestring. di-trict. is
moused of BeriK'lillo, San Inati
the Republicans are all in line in this! gets for rtinnin Mr. Rud Wizer's higantl Sandoval counties. It has been
county and prepared to put on a 'add. K'oz the kaoetol bcin dtye they representetl by Hon. lo-eidi Snlzer
strenuous campaign. Mora will give kant sel it an Mr. Ktitting and Mr of Albtitineriiuc for the last three
a large Republican majority for bothOtaro beink drve kant drink it and sessions of the legislature. San Juan
state and county ticket from top it bcin beerc and not wine the- kant eoimti- geographically belongs to
to bottom. Hubbell. Bursum andjrlonate it to the precebcre wht was Colorado, and half of the water in.
,'Martinez arc especially popular buCworkin wi'h them to use it in church New Mexico conies from the mottn-
tlie voters ncre wui go siraigiu ior,so W'nar no rney atin wmi it r 1 tie. tains 01 c oioratio iiito an juan
the whole ticket. jynit dont anser an i bet vou kno andlrotinty. and they have irrigation proj-
lyoii kant svdestep an sa tbey get'ects that are not always understood
P. ton rrnize Cl.iK. monie fer the edd W07 .i aw in tlierlbv the people from other p.irts of
t 1.- .! it .'1'st'ttp to f:ittiitiart7e bittisptf witb her
sionai ccmmrciee, spoKe in naion addressed the Katon meeting and ; ficrerred ont an it was "toitttr W rlrVe iinstitutions. is ab'c to act jtiibciously
A Republican Club was organized ' napcr wher they woodent take monic ; the state
at Raton Saturday night and ar-1 for an add so 1 kno they take hear, j Sall j,l;m rr,ntv. rcotte fee! that
seats, to the left of the platform. Ro-l,:t, aii,...,-!..7. ",Vv, , rantretnents nave aircauy nccn T bet 1 got your cote now. ;they should he represented this time
mero was on his feet the moment the! '" "h;i,: made to organize 111 ecry precinct Sa i wisbdt voude rite an giv me bv one 01 their own citizens.
votn annoiinred and walked 1 g in the county except Dawson where ,ue fmo-ers hv which Santv Fee went Hon V. H. Cbrisman ot" San Juan,
down to the centsr of the auditorium, Congressman Uarence . club was organized over two weeks i,irve j never did ee them afterwards who served in two sessions of the
direetlv in front of the nlatform. Withlof Minnesota, traveling under the jago and now has several hundred ,ht : w the Dalev Mexicon to daze house, and bas traveled aboi-t the
.ai.cmra n. tt. ivat.nt.al I on trr. 1 II,- T llT:l. f-:a.t: . . . . . .. . . r .. .f - . : .
all the feeling that he could put Into "." ' , V "icmucis. nun. j. iobih "''k' bclor trie icrksmin ami
voice and gesture, he declared that he
had no fault to find with the selection
of the convention, that Bursum re
mained bis good friend, and that he
would support the ticket faithfully
and earnestly. He had told me nearby
a month before that the ticket of the
convention would be his ticket, that
it would receive bis whole support.
But notwithstanding his published
Interview, and his manly speech in the
convention, which also was given to
the press, there was a most persistent
effort made to convince the general
last night and will also speak in
Las Vegas tonight. From there he
goes to Gallup where he will speak
Saturday night and pass on into
Arizona where he also has several
speaking dates.
General Newton W. Gilbert, who
was governor general of the Philli
pine Islands in 1912 and 1913, will
be in Silver city and speak there
on Friday or Saturday evening.
Congressman Miller wilt speak at
Deminft Alamogordo, Tacumcari and
perhaps at one or two other points
assisted in organizing. j,0 t kntte bv that it did. Tbev fcr-!with matters pertaining to the state
Santa Fe Warms Up. lrnt to send me any paper the dav university and the state fair, and
A million dollars for each of trie j fter leckshun so ? never knowed if j would work for.tbe interest of A!bu
next two years would not be tool; went even, or 1 or 2 tnoore. I lik querque and Bernalillo copntv, as
much for New Mexico to spend up
on its system of public roads, de
clared Holm O. Bursum in an ad
dress here Tuesday night to an
audience which overtaxed, the capa
city of the court honse.
The republican candidate for gov
ernor continued to preach the doc
trine of good roads and an unending
improvement in schools absolutely
the Daley Mexicon kor Kutting basiwell as Sandoval, where he has some
Sr, much monie and Gillie o much I interests .and always for San Juan,
experence and Dana so much hranes. jw-bcre he has been living for some
and nnn of them has ane of what the
other haz. that tbev alwaze kno ev
erthing and tell it before it hanens
in the Mexican, Mr. Kuttings estate
paper.
Youre trnlie.
HARBINGEN.
eight years, and he'ping to improve
the country, and for the state as a
whole.
L'pon looking over the field the
people could not do better than to
nominate Hon. W. H. Cbrisman fo
senator from the fifth district.
I
