Iff fainted (Eitrratí
TWENTY-FOURTH YEAR.
CARLSBAD, NEW MEXICO. FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6. 191
MMliK 4.
ARMORY COMPLETED
CARLSBAD SCHOOLS
lie .Zfim-nni 11 ' "'S 1 i'ln II
i v a,;,, --,- , g
COMPANY "B" TO HAVE
A COMFORTABLE
HOME
The magnificent piece of masonry
known and pointed out m the Armo
ry is nearing completion.
It is beautifully located In the very
heart of the city, ia a three at or y
building 1.12 feet long, Bl feet wido
and, from the basement Moor 3U feet
high. Is built of reinforced concrete
up to prude line find hollow building
block tilo above
Carlsbad may well be pleased with
this magnificent structure. It is one
of the best of its kind in the state. If
Carlabad had not had sumo splendid
talent in the way of sharp shooters
the appropriation by the legislature of
117,500 would not have been allowed
Major E. P. Bujn.: played a leading
part in the early 'Ife of tha company
by urging the boys to enlist, and by
giving his tima in drilling the boys.
In the infancy of the company they
occupied the Tansill block and con
tended against many difficulties ten
years ago.
The Armory board consists of W.
W. Dean, Major K. P. Bujac, Dr. F.
P. Doepp R. C. Dow and Adjujant
General Herring of Santa Fe, and
they have about paid off the debt.
The lot waa bought by the people of
Carlsbad and the state donated J 17,
600, and by shrewd management the
board succeeded in getting the build
ing erected, and it will be splendidly
equipped. It is practically modern,
and the arrangement seems ideal, and
when Company B comes inarching
home they will find everything ready
for their comfort.
The placing of the hcatinr xytnm
ha been let l the Pinluy-Pratt
Hardware Co.
In the lower story or busemcnt is
found the locker room 2tixi() feet, rifle
rantre 15x90 feet, for indoor practice
room for government supplies 15x20,
draining room 15x20, four shower
baths equipped with hot and cold wa
ter. The furnace room 12x20 will con
tain the heating plant furnace
Th suite of rooms for the men
will he cozy and ample; a room for
reading, gymnasium and games, three
room each 25x21 feet
The heating plant for the club
room and auditorium is Mituuted in
the basement, in the northeast cor
ner. All this is urrnged for the pleasure
of Company B.
As the structure is entered from
the front, ascending the steps, we
find a ticket afflre and a room on each
aide, 12xH feet for officers. As we
pase through the doorway we enter
the auditorium or drill room, 54x90
fett, with hard maple floor. The
stage alone is a leauty and perfectly
designed, being 35 feet wide and 22
deep the . largest stage in the state.
Two rooms are arranged on each side
of the stage 12 x 14. Around this
main enclosure is the balcony for the
exits, two in front and two near the
stage The auditorium and stage are
large bacolite lump pitted 20Ü wats
well equipped for light and eight fine
art already fitted. They are also ftt
todon top for dim lighting. The foot
lights for the stage have the three col
or eystem, red, white and blue. Goo,
rrwierica ia authorized to let the av
ditorium for dances or shows and the
proceeds will be used to provide seat
ing capacity.
The Carlsbad Commercial Club ia
comfortably housed on the balcony
floor and consisting of a billiard room
19 a 30 and a social room with rolling
partition dividing it into two smaller
room 13 1-2 x 30 feet or one lur-re
room 27 x 80 . n tn.s floor is loca
'ted a cloak room ni lavatory sup-
tilled with hot and cold water and toi
et. The electric light system fa quite
a feature and wa installed by the P.
.U. Co. The Finlay-Pratt Hdw. Co.
have the credit for the plumbing and
heating system. Wallace A Pond are
the builders and commenced about the
first of February and completed their
part of the work October, i.
There is one Ideal and life saving
point in the construction the exits
are ample, two front and rear and
idas six ways of escape in case of
fire. ,
Frank Moritx has the contract to
furnish the scenery and curtains. He
has secured enough advertising to pay
for the work and any extra will be us
ed I furnish the building The build
ing fund has been totally exhausted
and the debt has lieen practically met.
One bill to Finlny-Pratt remains un
paid but all creditors are willing to
wait.
Monday, Pete Ralmrn and Jack
Scott were in town and made a deal,
Pete selling the improvements on his
place in Dark canon known as the old
Middleton place with the crop of beans
and corn to Jack all for $(00. Mr.
Kuborn expect to file in Dog canon
and makea home to suit him o vert he re
It is not many miles farther and the
soil ia deep and fine for farming
CW03TIAN ft CO. INSURANCE.
WARDIB POLK'S DEATH.
O! Not in cruelty, not in wrath,
The reaper came that duy.
Twas an angel visited the green
earth.
And took the flower away.
Iiongfcllow.
Six minutes of the noon hour Tues
day, the reaper Death called at the
home of Mr. and Mrs. Buford Polk
and plucked a tender flower, the litlle
daughter, Wardie. Wardie hud been
ill for the past four weeks. About a
month ago she was jumping up and
down on a spring seat and lost her
balance and fell out over the dash
board and on the wagon tongue strik
ing her buck on the wagon hammer
or bolt to fasten the doubletree. She
was badly hurt and suffered all night
and they brought her to town tho
next duy. She was under the care of
a physician from that dny until she
died, suffering with her spine and her
limbs. She was at the home of her
grand parents, Mr. and Mrs W. W.
Ward in I .a Huerta for a while, and
then at tha Eddy hospital and at the
Anderson Sanitarium. Eight large
ahcesses were endured and the little
life hung on a thread for many days.
Every thing was done that could
lessen her sufferings, but Thursday
slMJut noon she passed to the home
notmade by hands and will becon the
loved ones here to join her there. 8he
was a bright child and a favorite of
her grand mother whose name, Raph
ael Wardie, she bore.
. This Is the first sadness of this kind
in the family and the many grand
aunts and uncles all her mother's
family, except Homer who is at the
state college were present. Mr. Polks
brothers, uncles and cousins came to
see the 'ittle girl ano comfort her.
She leaves to mourn her loss, besides
uncles and aunts a father and mother
one brother and two sisters. She waa
the second youngest in the family.
The little white, flower covered casket
was borne to the Baptist church by
i the big bay horses, and Rev. Bul b in
1 his uhuuI calm way delivered one of
the bent sermons it has been our lot
to hear for many a day. telling the
mourners and friends that she could
not return to them and asking if they
were ready. The selected hymns by
the choir were tenderly and beautiful
ly rendered. The pall bearers, four
in numbar found the little casket
lili lit and they placed it In the hearse
and followed to the grave where the
last sad parting camo.
Thus tiiey guve the flower they did
love, trusting t j find it again.
In the Acids of light and love.
FAR FROM FRANCE.
Jacques Contjean, aged eighty-five
years, died at the home of his daugh
ter Mrs. August Rayroux, in La Huer
ta, Monday. Ho was bom in Bethon
Court, France and came to this coun
try in 1891 having lived in or near
here almost the entire time. He wa'
physically strong and had his own
little home, living out his number of
years on a homestead, and lived there
until about three months ago, when
he was taken ill and made his home
with his daughter, as they considered
him txi feeble to bo alone. Not many
weeks ago he walked to town and vis
ited the grand bullios and made over
them as if they were much to him.
Mrs. Rayroux Is the only child living,
three grand children, the Mesdames
C H. Mcl-enathcn, Carl Gordon and
Lawrence Rayroux and a number of
Treat grand children survive him In
his youth he was a clock maker by
tnwie ann in moae days each man
made clock, not Just the wheel or
springs, or parts; but a complete
clock and if every part did not move
evenly, the man was called to make
it good and their mark was on the
wheels or parts, so it would be known
who was to make it good. And, the
remaikuble thing about this was when
Mr. and Mrs. Tracy were married
they received a bsautiful clock pre
sented to them by some of the Tif
fany family in New York, and, the
clock was not in perfect order and Mr
. innijcun volunteered to look it over
although his hands were then trem-
oung with age. He tenderly lifted the
mastarnlaea fmm ta u.... -i-
em rn V II I p4 )raGv
and began to look it over for the cause
when lol he finds it is the clock he so
proudly surveyed in his youth and,
was, like him, in a foreign land. The
inmates of the house heard exclama
tions of joy and supposed he had got
ten it to going nicely so came to see
and he showed them his irdrt. and
they understood how remarkable it
was. He readily touched the wheels
ad springs and it responded and today
is telUnv the tima ... .. i i
. . , , ' -"" "'I'll V11V TMOf
that labored so faithfully are folded
mnA IL. I ... i
-i.u un wommnui orain tnat made
each tiny wheel and placed them to
tell men tnr rannrtlinna it
time, is peacefully sleeping.
Services at Grace church were held
at ten A. M. Tuesday, where the rel
atives and friends assembled to nay
wi iam rcspocu 10 tne dead. Rev.
Pratt officiated and many floral tri
bute, covered the casket and the body
was interred at tha Carlsbad cemetery
The pall bearers were: Messrs Mer
chant, A. N.Pratt. Pierce, Christian
Tracy and C. C. Hutto.
John D. Stephens and wife return
ed to Clovis Saturday night Mr.
Stephens was operator here for a
few weeks while J. N. Bales was off
on vacation.
WOOOROW WILSON.
A. J. I.oomi, the U. S. revenue man
came over from El Paso. Saturday.
and he was sobusy the Current hardly
Knew ne was in town. Mr. Loomls
is the dean of the New Mexico press
and what he don't know about news
papers he does apout collecting reve-
FOR THE PARTICULAR SMOKER
"LA LUCBANA"
A GENUINE IMPORTED MANILA
Something Different But Just Right
Sold only at ths
EDDY DRUG STORE
PENSLAR
IT CAN'T BE DONE!
THKKK is no "".use, for Hemoeruts ami Progressives lovers of peace
and 'lppntii'iiis of the horrors ami crimes of war to feel othui
than the n'atest confidence in the re-election of President
W IISOII.
Friends of his Ili-publican opponent hsve. been making vociferous en
deavor to impress the voters of the country with a fictional strength for
Mr. Hughe' csndiilacv.
IVesident Wilson has the Dumix rats of the country enthusiastically
behind hint.
He has the friends of prepan-dneia snd pence.
He has every Progressive who really holds policies shove prejudice
ami deeds above vague promises.
He has the women voten of the states where sulTrnge is tn accom
plished fact, who hold their country find in their esteem and who are
able to see more in the support President Wilson bus already given suf
frage than in the opportunist espnuxal of their causo bv rundidme who
before never hat shown, by bis acta even the most ciiiiilescendine syra
pathy.
There are but a meager few stub's where Mr. Hughes' chunpions ean
give him more tliun a doubtful chance of securing electoral votes.
No issue lias been joined by the speeches of the Republican candidate
which ia of suflicient wurtli to merit ionium ronsidorutum.
Behind Mr. Wilson there is a long record (if deeds done and legislation
enacted which puts hitn far up abreast of the lunes and popular demando
For President Wilson to be defeated there must develop such s reac
tion from present sentiment as would be sturtling indued.
He luis the record of achievement.
He has the shibboleth of peace.
He lias the accomplishment of preparedness.
He has s Congress which has stood nobly behind his policies and liai
written laws that the great masses of voters will Miri-ly indorse..
He has been direct, diligent, assertive and dominant.
No public man ever cherished loftier ideals ot did mure to win to them
the public approval
Bust him f
IT CANT DON SI
Beat him, and restore to power fn ttia novernmont the oM order. I!i
Republican reactionaries, tha guardisns and agents of privilege and pre
rogative?
Rest him, and blot from ths statute books laws that register s eentury
of progress t
NO, INDCCOI
Beat him, with the harvests ripening Into such wealth at the country
ever knew before?
Beat him, with the Government's credit the talk of the world I
Beat him, with labor employed, wages good and happiness the out
ward semblance of nation wide contentment r
Rest him, with the vaults of the banks of the country bulging and
legislation already enacted which is the gunranton of low interest rates P
Beat him, with his neutrality achievements, which have made ns the
one nation secure from tho criminal affusion of the red blood of the loim
and fnf her of Ihe land
Beat him, when law is hifflily respected, when the national honor I
respected, when li e Mac has ben mud the signal at once of prenaredntw
and pea. e snd our people home loving, Ood faring and ready for higher
acltievciiiciii in ihe fs.tu.-" trun wen ever chronicled in the pastf
IT CANT BE DONE!
wU.. ..... na
THOMAS R. MARSHALL.
The Woerner brothers W. G. and
John camo in from Knowlea Wednes
day and spent one day in town with
old friend and bid all adieu this morn
ing leaving for the Plains town. From
the looks of the big Chalmers they
must have been moving.
SUPT. BRINTON MAKES
FIRST MONTHLY
REPORT
The Carlsbad schools closed the
nrxt month of school on Friday, Sept.,
!!, with an enrollment of f4 l. I .nut
year the erullment for the flrt month
wax 5:iO The average daily attendance
for the first month this year wan 47'J
against 4!2 a year ago. In the High
School were K'J enrolled. During the
first month last year there wen'
enrolled. The failing off, six in num
ber, is due to a smail freshman class
as hut few promotions were made
from the eighth grade to the High
School at the clone of the term lust
May.
The enrollment by grades is as fol
lows: High School, Eighth Crude .14,
Seventh (irsde 2D, Sixth Grade 40,
Fifth tirade 4H, Fourth tirade 41,
Third (irade 48, Second Grade oft,
First tirade fl, Spanish American
First (irade 56, Second and Third
Grades 40 and above the Third Grade
n-
The total number of students neith
er absent .or tardy for the month ia
3 IS against ttiiti for last year for the
same period
The schools have been running al
ong in good condition and with very
little friction. The prospects for the
year are bright. The students and
teachers are earnest and good results
for the first month have Iwen recor
ded in every department.
In the High School, literary socie
ties have been organized for literary
and a glee club will be orgunizcd in
the near future plans are being tnudd
for public iiatfoiniunces to bring the
students before the public t ouc their
talents. Students are taking hold of
this work with a will and lro outlook
for some good work ulong tlii line is
good.
The manual training department,
under the ilirecliou of Mr. lluUiWd, is
now reciting and doing regulur w,.ik
five days in i'uch week l.ul year
but two periods were given to niuuuul
training. Industrial subjects are fust
growing in iloiiiuiul for people, sic
glowing mol . to see that education
along Illicit of pructiiul activities of
life are more in demand than somuch
text kn:wlvdt(c without loe prac
tical application.
SPANISH AMERICAN S( IXMU.
The new building udded and ttiu
new drena of paint for the Smnnh
American school building has added
wonderfully to the links of tin school
and the room added has mudo it msmi
ble to teuch manual training und do
mestic science. Thirty doflurs bus
lieen invested for tools and convenien
ces for nuuiuul training and twenty
four pupils ure so much interested
that one cluss took the truiniiig on
t-1 Klity iiignl and the other cluss two
afternoons ouch week lifter school
hours. They are very much enthused
over the work. The girls ure anxious
to Htudy domestic sciento und twen
ty dollars has been invested for vur
ious little things including un oil
stove. Mise Irishman is tcudiing the
culinary department and Mrs. i'opu
the sewing departimtut. The enroll
ment is 40 and the attendance good.
Farts About the International Dry.
Farming Congress
1. The congress is not un insti
tution for profit. It uspires only to
a voluntary membership orguiutu
tion. i. No commercial interest run ev
er uso tlie emigren for private gum.
No land exploitation scheme ciri se
cure the assistance of emigres,
cure the assistance of tho congress.
X Permanent offices are luiiiii
tuined, und the work of congrí , is
kept up throughout the year.
The pr'icHdinira of the annual
sessions are printed in book form, I
each volume comprising a vuluuhtu
aoiiition to tho agricultural literal
ture of the times.
tl, The annnuul membership fee is
twenty dolllars.
6. A monthly bullletin or mugu
xine is published by means of which
the members and others are knpt
informed as to the rurrei t proeed
ings and progress. This magazine is
a constant source of information on
practical and technical agricultural
and Hied problems. It issent regu
larly to all memliers in good standing
Present plans contemplate marked
improvement in this inagaxinc.
7. The annual sessions occupy
four to six days and evenings, Uie
program being eompoaud of the very
nest talent that run bo secured.
Also, actual, practieul farmers take a
prominent part, and altogether these
sessions mark the acme of agricultur
al achievements. Educational, econ
omic, country life and live stock top
ics ubio receive careful and lilwriil at
tention. H. The annnuul sesions and (he
columns of the muguxine, ure open
to alll for a freo ducusssion of prop
er topics.
9. The advertising column of the
magaxine, "The Agricultural Re
view," are open U honest, lugitlmats
and reputable advertiser.
10. The Soil Products Exposition,
held in connection with the cong
ress sessions, is not surpassed in ite
educational features it is a clussi by
itself.
11. The eongrns compiles and
publishes results of research und ex
perimental work; not only Its own,
iiut the best that is acccompliwhed by
federal, stue and other stations, and
by individuals.
12. The eleventh annual congresa
and exposition will be held at El
Paso, in Texas, in October, I'Jlrt.
DAVID LUBIN ADVOCATES
RE-ELECTION OF WILSON.
Pathsr of American Rural Credlte,
Another Lsading Republican, te
Jam President's Standard.
David (.utilii, founder of the Inter
national disunite of Agriculture and
tatber of the rural credit movement
In America, has Joined the list of
prominent Itepiitillcana opeuly advocat
ing the reelectlou of President Wil
son. With In a fortnight Thomas A.
Edison, Luther llurbauk and Henry
Ford, all Republican and men of In
ternational fame, have done the same.
David I.ubln Is a wealthy California
farmer. Ilia Interest In securing
square deal for the farmer led him te
make research abroad, and out of ble
efforts grew the International Institute
of Agriculture at Rome. This Institu
tion does for the staples of agriculture
of the world what the American cha,
bar of commerce does for the products
of tbe American manufacturer.
Through hi connection with the In
stitute he became Interested In the
DAVIO LUBIN.
rural credit systems of Kurow and led
the movement which resulted tn the
pi4iiKe of ehe Itiiral Credits Act by
tbe Wilson administration.
Just before depurtlng for Italy re
cently, Mr. I.ulilii authorlred an In
terview of 4xl words In whkh be
gave his opinion of those sets of tbe
Wllsmi administration which directly
aifnct the farmer. This has been fur
nished without cost to every leading
farm pnper In the 1'nlted States. If
tha farmer doe not read It In his
farm piin r It will probably lie because
the editor docs not care to use his
columns fur discussion of economic
questions and government sili ee that
vitally affect Ihe runner.
Mr I.ubln ssld: "In the application
of business met Inula of distribution.
America, tniill the present administra.
I Ion, huh ti I t ITs I years behind tier
nisnjT and set eral decsiles behind the
rest of Km i-,, s- And yet In the very
thing In which A rl' a la bsckward
she should lend the world. Hhe does
not, iMx-ause s ctl.prn of special Inter
ests diets led piihlic opinion and con
(rolled Icilsls'liiu through the bosses
of IIih Kepulillcsn party. Ho cleverly
hsve llier worked thnt the average
mail Is h)piioll.ed, his critical facul
ties dulled.
" President Wilson Is neither fooled
nor led by this crowd lie U tireless,
patient, fameeliig He baa a historic
senas o( the past, a sympathetic sense
or tha present aud a prophetically
spiritual seuee or the future. While
his head la above the rlouda, his feat
are always uion tbe earth. He to
Idealistic on (be one aide, on the other
practical. He la a good business mau.
"lie koow that good política ami
good economics ate the asme thing,
tie Is fearless; In all my relations with
him, direct or Indirect, I full tn find
anything or snvli.sly he Is afraid of."
Much Hall Damage.
lUil In the Ira ciiiiuntiuily of Scurry
county, 'I'm., destroyed over KI,iml
worth of ooluin and feedstuff. im
farmer losing slxusw bales of cultnn.
A severo stuciu raged in lli owu county
and did considerable dituge A ml
from Comanche lightning destroyed a
barn and oouyju.
, i V I
tyf
"v JL-w 1
