i jtm uwow LIMES'
PAGES 1 TO 8
OWOSSO THE CITY OF PUSH'
VOL. XXXVIII
OWOSSO. MICHIGAN, OCT. 6, 1916.
NO. 28
TO FLINT NEXT YEAR
Is Latest Promise of Michigan Rail
way Company Route Not
Decided.
J. F. Collins and other Michigan
Railway Co. officials and their wires
were in Owosso and Corunna on an
inspection tour Tuesday. Mr. Collins
stated that the line would be extended
to Flint next summer as rails could not
be secured before, that time.
As to the route, the officials had not
definitely decided, the Lennon 'route
being favored, but the New Lothrop
route and people will be considered.
Bowling Season Opened.
The Owoeao Bowling League opened
the season Monday, at the Brunswick
alleys. Teams Nos. 1 and 3 took three
games each from Teams Nos. 2 and 4.
Deputy Register Resigns.
Robert E. Hagan, deputy register of
deeds, has tendered his reeignatibn to
G. J. Cole and will go to Detroit to
take a position with the Union Trust
Co. No successor will be appointed
immediately.
Malleables Defeat Ann Arbor.
The American Malleables football
team defeated the Ann Arbor Inde
pendents at D. & C. park, Sunday, 32
toO. The teams were both heavy,
averaging nearly 180 pounds, and the
first half ending 6 to 0 was hard fought.
Dowding-Powers.
The marriage of Miss Irene Dowding
and Richard Powers, both of Benning
ton was solemnized early Wednesday
morning at St. Isidore's Catholic church
in Laingsburg. Fr. Taylor officiated
in the presence of the immediate rela
tives and friends of the young people.
They left on a wedding trip and will
reside on a farm in Bennington town
, ship.
Must Not Shine In Owosso
Judge Miner in the circuit court has
made permanent the injunction pre
venting Tom Paxinos from conducting
a shoe shining business in - Owosao for
five years as agreed by him when he
sold out to Chllikos & Brown. The
Greeks of the city have taken sides in a
controversy in this matter, aDd some
- fighting and much threatening has been
done. ' ' j
Somers-Hofacker.
The marriage of Miss Pauline Som
ers, elder daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Homer Somers, to Cleo Hof acker both
of Kerby, was solemnized Saturday
afternoon at 3 o'clock at the home of
Rev. and Mrs. Blood in Corunna. They
were unattended. They left' immedi
ately for a visit in Davisburg with the
. bride's uncle, and after their return
they will be at home with the bride's
parents this winter.;
Baptist Sunday School Rally.
The rally exercises at the Baptist
Sunday school Sunday were a genuine
success. The school has made splendid
progress this year in all departments.
One of the most delightful sights Sun
day was a primary department of seventy-seven
little'tots in song and reci
tation. Mrs. Fred Welch is superin
tendent. Miss Cora Miller has general
supervision of the department. Gen-
, eral Superintendent L. O. Underwood
was at his best in his 'word of greeting.
AU classes were well represented. Pas
tor Waite presented the diplomas to a
large class coming from primary to
junior department.
County Orders.
CORUNNA, Mich., Oct. 4. The
number and amount of road orders
paid last month by County Treasurer
Richardson broke all previous records.
The county treasurer paid out $2,
283.75 for work on roads under the
district plan of assessment and $10,
209.07 from the general road fund.
Following is a list of orders paid dur
ing September:
Sparrow orders $ 3.0S
Birth and death certificates 8.00
Soldiers' relief 13.00
Rat orders 14.80
Circuit Court orders 20.00
Witness orders 81.00
Probate Court orders 53.79
Juror orders 12G.71
Abstract orders 185.33
Buildings and grounds 189.02
Mothers' pensions 210.50
Purchase orders , 427.9G
County orders" - G78.7G
GAL TWO TIMES
County poor orders 700.12
Drain orders 1,852.43
Salary orders " 2,2143
District road orders 2,283.75
General road orders 10,204.25
Total $19,209.07
Ministerial Association.
The Shiawassee County Ministerial
Association met Monday morning at
the Baptist church, elected officers and J
outlined the work of the year. Rev.
E. J. Cross, of Corunna, was chosen
president, Rev. J. B. Wallace, of
Owosso, vice president and Rev. II. A.
Waite, of Owosso, secretary and trcas
urer. E. O. Dewey, manager of the
dry campaign in the county, made an
address.
Athletic Association.
The high, school athletic association
has elected officers as follows : Presi
dent, Leon Osmer; vice president, Ber
nard Mattson; secretary! Cecil Mur
phy; treasurer, J. Ford McBain; man
ager of foot ball, Donald Brittson;
boys' basket ball manager, Elmer
Marvin; girls' basket ball manager,
Neva Donigan; baseball manager, Joe
Robbins.
J. A. Richardson,
Republican Candidate for County
Treasurer.
Celebrate Golden Wedding.
Vernon, Oct. 3. Monday was the
fiftieth anniversary of Mr. and Mrs. M.
M. Byington's marriage. They are
among Shiawassee county's oldest pio
neers, coming here when they were
young and settling on the farm where
they now live, in the year 1807, and
today this farm Is one of the best in the
country. Their barns are equipped
with the latest and best machinery, and
their, house is a beautiful, and, conven
ient country home. Mr. Byington has
always been known as a man of pro
bity and to all those who have ever
known or dealt with him in a business
way his word is, as the old saying, "as
good as the wheat." They are the par
ents of two children, E. Ray Byington
and Mrs. Fred Miller. Their many
friends offer heartiest congratulations.
Bolt Must Stay in Dry Counties.
Emmet C. Bolt, township clerk of
Shiawassee township, was sentenced by
Judge Miner in the circuit court, Moo
day, for a violation of the local option
law, by being fined $115 and ordered
not to visit any county where liquor is
sold, and must not touch intoxicating
liquor. Bolt kept liquor in his garage
at Bancroft and sold it until complained
of by the village marshal a former em
ployee' in the garage.
Tom Hoskings, well known charac
ter, was released by Judge Miner on a
charge of breaking bis probation, and
allowed to go free to serve out his two
year probationary period. Hoskings has
a wife and two small children, and on
their account he was released.
NIGHT SCHOOL FOR ALIENS
At Lincoln Building In This City Un
der Direction of Y. W. C. A.
The Owosso Y. W. C. A , with the
co-operation of the Owosso schools,
will continue the work begun last year
by holding night classes at the Lincoln
school building, beginning in the near
future. Last year's class had 17 men
and 8 women, all foreigners. The start
last year was made Oct. 1, but other
work has prevented the preparation for
opening the year as early as last. Sev
eral teachers in the public schools vol
unteered in the work last year includ
ing Misses Kate Corlett, Marjory
Cleary, Olive Lockhart, Clara Mar
shall and Gertrude Sherzer.i.and an
equal number are ready to again do
nate their services.
Mission Festival.
Next Sunday morning and afternoon
Salem's Lutheran church, corner of
Washington and Williams streets, will
hold its annual mission festival.
Special services and special music
appropriate to the occasion will be ren
dered. Two outside pastors have been
secured to occupy the pulpit. The Rev."
William Bodamer of Toledo, will preach
In German in the morning service, and
Rev. Gustav Schmelzer of Saginaw,
will preach in English at 2:30 p. m.
The church choir and the school chil
dren have been practicing diligently
under the direction of Prof. Wm. J.
Rnclow fd render good music at both
eery ices. All are welcome.
I: A ';,f;.;
DOUBLE CAPACITY OF
ICE TCREAH PLANT,"!
, .
Connor loe Cream Co. Purchases
i. . ,, . . . .
ISUV.K. noiei r-rupcriy inu
Wiir Build New Buildln.
ine Connor ice vream uo. aespite tne made, for meetings and reports re
enlarging of its plant last year finds too ceived regarding the sentiment of the
little room for its ever Increasing busl. yotera upon both the amendments. As
ness and has purchased the Hauck i, true all over the state the belief was
hotel property which Includes 70 feet general that State wide prohibition is
of vacant property west of the hotel' BUre to be adopted and the zreat need
and will erect a new building 66x120
on the vacant property at an expense
of 125,000 to $30,000
The company will increase its busi
ness by adding a wholesale line of
fruits, syrups and soda fountain sup
plies with a wide territory covered by
agents.
John J. McDonald will probably be
come president and general manager,
and his brother, W. A. McDonald, who
has resigned as a member of the faculty
of the New York State College, will
become an officer.
ORDERED TO TEXAS
Co. H Will Havo Opportunity to Mix
In the Political War on
Mexican Border.
Co. H will start for the "war with
Mexico" Saturday after several dreary
months of camp life at Camp Ferris at
Grayling. It is expected the company,
with the balance of the 33rd Regiment,
will leave for the south Saturday. The
boys are highly pleased at the cnance
to do something and get to a warmer
climate.
The company members drew lots for
sweaters Tuesday, there not being
enough to go around. They also drew
for leave of absence the three lucky
ones being Cyril Angus, Roy Smith
and Milton Nutson.
If the time can be known a rousing
reception and farewell will be given
the boys as they pass through Owosso
and other Michigan cities.
M. E. Church Officers. , .,
At the first regular official board
meeting of the First M. E. church
Tuesday night the following officers
and committees were elected:
Chairman of Board W. A. Upliam. I
Recording Secy. Chester L. Patee
Treasurer A. E. Osmer.
Financial Secy. Mrs. Kittie Bur
hans. House Committee J. R. Hughes
and B. S. Sutherland, Mark "Wood
bury and J. M. Peru.
Flower Committee M. II. Knapp,'
C. W. Jennigs and Dr. Sutherland.
Pulpit Supply W. J. Blood, I). M.
Christian and Dr. Sutherland.
The board gave the parsonage com
mittee full power and authority to go 'tax of $11.177 76 has hIho been paid
ahead with the repairs, consisting of over by the Ptbte. $28,680 CO has been
hardwood floors, open stairway and assessed against the couuty at large
redecorating throughout of the par-1 under the new road building law.
sonage at the corner of Oliver andj No repair fnnd for nrxt year will be
Water streets, and the building of a asked, the commission depending on the
garage at the rear. I auto tax money.
Rev. Mr. Warren gave the board
some very good suggestions and a very
inspiring talk.
EASY MONEY
County Gets $1,000 Forfeited Bail
Put Up by Pickpocket Who
Will Not Visit Here Again.
Fred Miller, who was arrested during
the fair by Under Sheriff Sproule aid
was released on $1,000 cash bail ar
raigned for by pals or someone who
knew the business the fellow was in,
failed to appear for examination when
his case was called in Justice McBridVs
court Sept. 28, and the bail was for
feited, and Shiawassee county's general
fund, which needs the monev, is $1,003
batter off, which is probably better
than the costs of trying the fellow and
sending him to prison as he and his
tribe will be shy of appearing here
again and he will be caught and sent np
from some other place, probably.
POSTAL CLERK A THIEF
Not Satisfied With $150 a Month Job,
Floyd Hess Steals From Mail.
, , ,T ., iii
lloyd Hess, railway mail clerk on
.. kJ . , ' rA i i t i
the Ann Arbor from Toledo to Frank-
- . . , ,., , , ...
ion, was arrested wrunesuay ai mr
Occidental hotel in this city by In
spectors Mackey and Birdseye . and
taken to Lansing where he will un
doubtedly be sent to a federal prison
for several years.
Hess was caught by decoy letters
which were found on his person when
arrested, lie had been suspected for
some time. He has been in the service-six
years, is married and lives at
McBain and drew $lf)0 a month with
every lhird day off.
I The Prohibition Campaign.
i The county committee for State wide
Sunday afternoon at headquarters in
tMm .... . . H. .
. tnia city with a good attendance from
the several parts of the county. Details
of the campaign were considered, nlans
u an awakening to the importance of
defeating the proposal of the wets for
"home rule."
Meetings for the coming week in
clude addresses Sunday evening at
Corunna by B. P. Hicks of Durand,
former prosecuting attorney, and at
Perry by Rev. B G. Mat son of this
city. Rev. Edwin 8impsoa of Detroit,
district superintendent of the Anti
Saloon League, will discuss "Out of
Date and Up to Date Temperance," at
the County Sunday School convention
in Durand, Friday afternoon, and in
the evening at Henderson.
Rev. E J. Cross gave a rousing talk
at an auction sale on the Wbittemore
farm near Chapin, Thursday. Satnrday
evening he gave a stereopticon lecture
on the court house lawn. He will be
pleased to answer calls for this lecture
at points about the county.
Pomona Grange of Shiawassee county
at its meeting held in Laingsburg,
Wednesday, adopted the following
resolutions:
Whereas, the proposed "home rule"
amendment to the state constitution
was instigated and fostered by the
liquor interests of the State, and
Whereas, if it is enacted into law it
would destroy the present county local
option unit and seriously interfere with
the State wide prohibition movement,
therefore be it
Resolved, by the Pomona Grange of
Shiawassee county that we condemn
this vicious measure with its insidious
workings that we unanimously favor
the(State wide prohibition amendment
andj we hereby pledge ourselves to do
all In our power to 'make and keep
Michigan dry.
$38,697.26 FORloOD ROADS
Road CommiSftlon of County Has Also
Levied 828,686 60 Against
County at Large to be
Paid Tv Fall.
The county road eommisBloners have
their annual report to the Board of
Supervisors ready for the session which
convenes Monday. It shows that 38,
607.20 has been expended this year,
$15,942 38 of which has been for repair
ing the road. The state has paid $15,
042.38 in rewards and the automobile
?K i II Q. PUL.VER,
Republican Candidate for Prosecuting
Attorney.
Grange Unanimously Opposes "Home
Rule "
The Grange of Shiawasneo county
at their coovenil ui iti the G. A. R. hall
In this city Tn-wUv, and ih Owohco
Grange an It toM-tiiu unanimously
adopted the following res lntiou:
.
Whereas, the hooilled hnuie rule
. . . . . . .
amendment is a measure designed to
defeat the state wide prohibition move
ment Therefor b it resolved, tb GrHnges
of Shiawassee curm in convention as
sembled, that we aje nnnltt-raMv op
pDfted to the honif rule amendment
and unanimously in favor of stnte wide
prohibition. ,
Fred rTnhhard nf Owrman. has
filed suit fur divorce fioiu Kitheryn
Ilnbbxp, elflfmtrir ern-Py to Mmself
ttuJ his childreu by n t;u.rr wife.
.
hi
STATE CONVENTION
King's Daughters Hold Interesting,
Largely Attended and Profitable
Gathering in Owosso.
One of the best attended and most
interesting state conventions of the
King's Diughters and Sons of Michigan
is in sei-sion at Christ Episcopal church
in this city.
The eighteenth annual convention of
the Michigan Branch of the Inter
national Order of King's Daughters
and Sons began at 2 p. m., Wednesday
with one hundred twenty-live delegates
present after an introductory reception
and assignment to homes of the city,
the delegates having been met at the
trains by members of the Owosso
organizations with automobiles.
Airs F H. Gould rendered an organ
solo previous to devotional services
conducted by Rev. H. A. Waite. Mrs.
J. N. Lewis of Detroit, president of the
Michigan branch, opened the business
session with an inspiring address. She
introduced City Attorney L. F. Miner,
who welcomed the delegates to the city
and thanked them for accepting an
invitation to meet in Owosso. Rev. W.
R. Dlachford, rector of Christ Episcopal
church, gave welcome on behalf of the
churches, referring to the relation of
the organization's work to that of the
church. Mrs. C. 3. Watson, president
of the Owosso Circle, expressed the
pleasure of Owosso people in having
the meeting here. Mrs. Mary Braden.
of Perry, responded for the state
branch, expressing appreciation of the
city and the hospitality of the people of
OwosBO. Mrs. M. C. Cronln, Michigan
member of the Central Council, brought
greetings from the larger body.
Mrs. B. G. Mattson rendered a solo
and was heaitily encored.
Reminiscences of the International
convention at Burlington, Iowa, in the
different departments and features
were given by Mrs. E. J. Reid of De
troit, Mrs. F. A. Darling of Detroit,
Mrs. Thos. Forman of Mt. Clemens and
Mrs A. A. Patterson of Flint, after
which Miss Lillian Vogel pleased the
audience with a vocal solo." v ; "
An address on "Christian Patriotism"
by Mrs. Maude Thompson of this city,
showed a thorough feeling and knowl
edge of the subject and was extremely
Impressive.
Wednesday evening a banquet was
served to the delegates by Owosso Circle
at the First M. E. church, over two
hundred guests and Owosso members
being present.
After the banquet the evening pro
gram was taken up at the Episcopal
church, the Junior Cir cits' members
taking up the entire evening. Twenty
five girls of the Margaret Bottome and
St. Catherine Circles rendered the
opening hymn followed by devotional
service led by Mrs. Pauline Trager.
Miss Josephine McGuineas gave a com
prehensive talk on the work of the
junior branch In the county showing
the fine results for the girlsathemselves
and for otbers. Miss Wilma Demu h
sing "The New Kingdom." Miss Marie
Wilcox of Lansing, in a capable paper
gaye an interpretation of the meaning
of King's Daughters. Miss Katherine"
Weber pleased the audience with a
reading and Miss Luella Mcintosh sang
"Abide With Me." Miss Nina Crowe
give a helpful paper on "Best Method
of Assisting the Poor." coveting the
essential factors, health, education,
employment and recreation. She pre
sented Mrs. Lewis, state president, with
a bouquet of roses.
Thursday morning Rev. II. G. Matt
son conducted devotional service after
which reports of all officers and special
reports were read and acted upon. Miss
Elizabeth Ward rendered a solo.
In the afternoon Rey. J. B. Warren
of the Fir3t Methodist church conducted
devotional service, followed by short
reports from delegates from variocs
prts of the state. An octette composed
of Mesdames Watts, Greenman, Harrv
man, F. H. Gould, Watson, Sutherland,
Rentechler aud Miss Lillian Vogel
rendered two fine selections.
Thursday afternoon an honorary roll
call and admission of new members, a
vocal solo by Mrs. Christian Rent
Bchler, Bible lessons conducted by Mrs
T. C. Gunsonof East Lansing, and Mrs.
C. S. Smith of Algonac, made an
interesting and helpful program.
The case of the Co-operative Foundry
Co of New York, against M. B. Zuber
of Owosso, has been settled and will
not be tried in the circuit court.
Mrs. V. S. Mat toon and Miss Cor.
nelia Mat toon have returned from De
troit where the latter consulted an eye
specialist.
The city police traveled 420 miles and
answered 174 calls in September; ten
arrests were made, fire for intoxication.
They found 110 doors unlocked.
fill
Absolutely Pure
Mado f Kr.i Oream of Tartar
NO ALUB-HO PHOSPHATE
REPUBLICAN MEETING S
Campaign of Speeches in This County
Starts Oct. 12.
The Republican county candidates
will appear at meetings to be held in
various places during the next four
weeks. At each meeting it is hoped
to have a good outside speaker. Next
week at Middlebury town hall on the
12th and Fairfield town hall on the
l.'ith, Hon. Wm. M. Smith, of St.
Johns, will be the speaker. The meet
ings as arranged are Middlebury, Oct.
12, Fairfield, Oct. 13; New Haven, Oct.
1G; Shaftsburg, Oct. 17; Henderson,
Oct. 18; Vernon, Oct. 19; Morrice,
Oct. 20; New Lothrop, Oct. 21; Laings
burg, Oct. 24; Antrim, Oct. 25: Kan
croft, Oct. 26; Byron, Oct. 27;. Ben
nington, Oct. 31; Judd's Corners, No.
1; Durand, Nov. 2; Corunna, Nov. 3;
Lennon, Nov. 4, and Owosso, Nov. C.
" Buys Miller Grocery
Nileg Wiggins has purchased ' the
grocery business of C-j Mi -Miller on.
North Washington street and will con
duct it under the name of the Miller
Grocery Co.
Mr. Miller retires because of ill
health, after a successful business ca
reer of thirteen years in this city. Mr.
Wiggins is widely known in this city
and county, and his many friends wish
him success. A wide circle of friends
and customers hope for Mr. Miller's
recovery.
Albert J. Cook.
The death of Albert J. Cook which
occurred last Friday, removes from this
life one of the ablest, most successful
and highly respected native citizens of
Shiawassee county, and one known the
country over for bis brilliant educa
tional work in agricultural lines.
Mr. Cook was born in Shiawassee
township Aug. 80, 1S42, was graduated
from the Michigan Agricultural col
lege in 1862, received the degree of
Bachelor of Science in 1865 and Doctor
of Science in 190.". He studied at Har
vard University in 1867 8. On June 30,
1870, he marriei Mi--s Mary H. Bald
win of Dayton, Ohio, and after her
death Mrs. Sarah Eldredge of Pasadena,
Calif, who survives him.
Dr. Cook became well known as an
instructor at the M. A. C. in several
branches, and as his ability was more
and more recognized he refused offered
positions but finally accepted the chair
of biology in Pomona college in Cali
fornia in 1893, serving there until 1911.
He was conductor of university ex
tension work, was the first to make
kerosene emulsion and to .demonstrate
the use of arsenates in prevention of
the coddling moth's growth. He was
an author of several works recognized
as standard, including "Manual of the
Aviary," "Injurious Insects of MichU
gin," ''Birds of Michigan," etc.
Prof. Cook was known as a consistent
Christian, a republican politically, and
an optimist whose influence was felt
in many ways. He was popular with
students in the institutions he was con
nected with and bis portrait was placed
in the M. A. C. by alumni from all
parts of the conntry.
Mr. Cook is survived by his widow,
one son, Albert B. Cook of Maple River,
aod one daughter, Mrs. Katherine E.
Briggs of Washington. D. C.
The funeral was held Monday from
the home of his son, A. B. Cook, Rev.
W. R. Kedzle, pastor of the Congrega
tional church at St. Johns, cousin of
the deceased, officiating. R. N. Gibson
sang appropriate volos. The pall bearers
were nephews of Dr. Cook as follows:
Clayton T. Cook, Charles Richardson,
Will Cook, Charles B. Cook, Frank
Cook and Harry R. Cook.
