VOL. LXXXHI.
BRATTLEBOHO, FRIDAY, OCTOBER G, 191G.
NO, "39?-
THE BIGGEST STOCK
-OF-
r urnixure
Rugs, Stoves and
Crockery
This Side of Boston, Right Here in
BRATTLEBORO
EMERSON & SOW
are known for miles around for
the quality of their merchandise
EASY TERMS FOR THOSE WHO DO NOT HAVE
THE READY CASH
Out of 1000 Bushels
of
SEED CORN
We Have Only a Limited
Amount Left,
Namely
Sanford
Longfellow .
Red Cob
Pride of the North
Eureka
E. CROSBY & CO.
BRATTLEBORO, VT.
You will find no safer or
more profitable meant of
Inveitlng your surplus funds
than we offer In the way of
First Mortgages on Improved
farms In Oregon, Washing
ton, Idaho and Montana.
Each property Is personally
Inspected by an officer of
this company. Wc buy the
mortgages outright, rclssu.
Ing them to you In any
amount from $500 up. All
payments of Interest and
principal made through this
office without chargo
Now is the Time to Get the
Pick of the Fall Styles
Ladies' and Men's Tailored-to-Order
Suits and Overcoats
Ladies' Suits, Skirts and Heavy Coats
for Fall and Winter Wear
itlxlit up-to-date in cut, ttylu and
llulxli. Come In and look them over.
WALTER H. HAIGH
Custom Tailor Elliot Street
EXCLUSIVE UNDERTAKING
Emlmlmeis
AatomoblU Barrlra 1. 1. plione ?.W
uiiattlbbouo vt.
FLOWERS
Loose or in DESIGNS can al
ways be had at right prices of
HOPKINS, THE FLORIST
Main Street, Braltleboro
R. G. BOYD
Manufncturer of All Kinds of
Silos, Watering Troughs, Tanks
and Lock Joint Boxes
AlioGciicial Woodworking and Illncksinlthinc;
WEST IHtATTLBHOUU, VI'.
The Melrose Hospital
WEST BRATTLEDORO. VT.
Well euulDDeil for the. euro of medi
cal, surgical and confinement -cases, aUo
chronic Invalids, rheumatics, nervous and
mini menial cases. SKiueu nursing, good
food and reasonable rates.
Dlt. K. U. LYNCH, Supt.
Helena D. Mathews, Matron.
oran&Rohde
Embalmets and Funeral Directors
Phone 351-W. 67 Main St., Drattleboro, Vt.
Vt. I.l onto 19.1-185. N. II . License 227.
Ma-snchuesetts License 17US
SCOTT FARM
E. C. TKNNEY, Mgr.
It I ii nibban Guernsey Rulter and Pure
bred Hull Calves for sale.
Visitor always welcome. Order9 taken
now for pure Mapla Syrup.
Hammocks, Couches,
Croquet
-AT-
CLAPP & JONES'S
Flowers
Wo sell first-class flowers at reason
able prices. Also guarantee to nut out
tho best design work lor Funerals,
codings, etc., ot nnyliooy in tins lo
cnlity. Wo tire not following the old
styles, lint nre using all up-to-date
methods. Wo feel sorry for people who
spend a lot of money for a nico thing
iind get something entirely different.
There is nothing too dillienlt for us to
make, and do it right. When in need,
give us your next ordor.
C. N. BOND
THE FLORIST
Phono 231-X
3 Locust Strcot
Official Grange Tour
To tho Both anniversary, to ho held In
WasliliiKton, Nov. la-si.
SOUTH AMERICAN TOUR
Leaves .New Yolk Feb. lid, l!ll". Visits
1'lnlit i-oiititiles and tho wondeiful FnllH
of the liiuuzu, ii0 feet higher end tlnee
t linen us wide as Niagara.
STEAMSHIP TICKETS
Keiuied at tariff rates to Norfolk, Her
niiida. --aviiniuih, Floildu, Cuba, Ja
male a. Panama, l'orto Itico. etc.
Itlneratles and full Infoimatlon to tho
WALTER II. WOODS CO.
252 Washington St., Do3ton.
You arr trespassing
on the Hunts of your dependents when
you reriiHu to Insure for tncir ucucm
IliHine to pcipotunto your oarnliiB enpac
liy, .National I, Ito Insurance i;u,, .miiiii
poller, vt. (.Mutual) liitli year.
ALDERT C. LAIRD, Special Agont
Abbott Dlock, Drattleboro Vt.
We Want to Serve You
Tlic best advertisement for a Hank is a Satisfied Customer.
The growth of the BRATl'LEHORO TRUST COMPANY
is due to the fact that its officers and employes have satisfied all
reasonable demands from its customers.
The HRATTLEHORO TRUST COMPANY solicits your
banking business in both its Savings and Commercial Depart
ments. Safe Deposit Boxes to Rent $3 per year
WANTED.
WANTED An experienced second
Kill; $3.00 a week. GI30RGI- K.
CHOWK1.U 40-tf
WANTED At once, scveiul good men
for pickliiK apples. II. V. GOODIOU,,
W'esllhinster West, Vt. 39-10'
WANTED Womnn for Kenernl house
woik In Hinall family of adults. Addiess
"i," t'aio I'hocnlx Olllce. 30-40
WANTED .Mini to miilto syrup. Ad
diess STANUAItlJ IiOTTLE WUllK..".
White, Hiver Junction. Vt. 21-U
WANTED Wo want tu list your prop
erty, no commission unices a. sale la
Hindu. Writu or call. a. W. KDGETT At
CO. 60-tf
WANTED Hoy 15 to IS yoaiH old to
deliver bundles, etc. To work full time
school lioy will not do. HOrUHTON
. .SI.MUNHS. 3'J
WANTED Youiik ladles to wait on
table, also one lor hand laundry. Ref
erences ieiuested. Apply to TlllI
NOUTlfFIlCUU, Hast Not thlleld, .Mass.
tii-ll
WANTED A few Kood machinists
nnd toolniakeis. Also two Kood automatic-
screw machine men for Cleveland
automatics, (iool wases paid to eom-
ctent men. F. K. WKM.S & SON CO.,
trieenlle'd, Mass. 40
SPECIAL NOTICES.
LOST Kent. 12. strlnir of cold heads.
Will tinder kindly return to Mrs. R. II.
llurlburt, G Cliapln Htiect and lecclve ie
ward. 40
LOST A lady's tan rain coat. Satur
day. Sent. CO, between Sand hill and the
Lincoln place on Hrattleboro road, J. II.
DAVISON. Hinsdale, N. II. 40
CHIROPODY and Shampoo Parlors
switches, pompadours, combings made up
to order. Mils. a. P. UAIL.KY. 117
Main St. Phono. 19-tf
SLATING AND ROOFING ot all kinds
nnd chtmnoy cleanlmr done to order.
K. D. TOnillOY, 69 Frost St., Hrattlebo
ro. Telephone 475-W.
MRS. J. M. SHAW of West Northfleld.
Mass., will lio at the Itest Hooms every
riitirsdny riom 10 a. m. to 4 p. m. to
take orders for work on all fur garments.
as-ir
AUCTION SALE
of Live Stock and Farm Produce
I will sell at public auction on my farm
In Brookllne, Vermont, on
Saturday, October 14
At 1 o'clock p, m., on the Main road by
the steam mill and upper white church,
the following personal property
Chestnut male, three years old. weiuht
1000 lbs., sound and Kontle. diive both
double anil single.
One cow six years old. due to fieslun
Feb. 20: 2 cows four years old. due
.Maicli X or 12; cow four ears old, duu
Ajull ; cow tluee years old. due now;
heifer two years old. In milk and due
March 20; fat heifer two yeais old; heif
er 20 months old; heller 13 months old;
two eal calves: nair daik red steers IS
months old; pair Hirht roan steers. 20
months old; pair dark roan steers, 1"
months old; all nicely matched and Dur
hams. Younc sow. six nlcs. S wppU-k nhl- m
hens, IS chickens; 23 tons of cnsllaue;
20 bushels potatoes; 20 tons of hay.
Terms modo known at time of sale.
FRANK A. STRVENS,
Urookllne, Vt.
J. If. Wnie. Auctioneer
Heforc.Yon Uuy Any Cream Separator
See and Try a
DeLaval
This will cost you nothing and may
savo you a great deal. Kasy payments
If you buy, 'c sell Churns. Ilutter
Woikers nnd all Dairy Mxtures. Diop
us a postal.
T. J. FITZGERALD
West Swanzey, N. H.
START
NOW
THREE YOUNG MEN l!tVi
wanted in our printing plant to learn tho
trade. Openings in niilerent depart
ments. YOU WILL BE PAID
WHILE LEARNING.
Write or call.
THE VERMONT PRINTING CO.
American Building, Braltleboro, Vermont.
Lea
Trade
TOR SALE.
FOR SALE Pigs, four weeks old. Cct.
15. arcOltUH HUGHES, Marlboro, Vt.
40
FOR SALE 300,000 ft. pine and luud
wood. Addiess "A," Phoenix Olllcc.
39-42
FOR SALE Fox hound puppies. None
better. A. S. HULltHOCK, Jacksonville,
Vt. JO-HI
FOR SALE Hay marc, wclnht 1,100,
or will trade for cattle. O. 10. tJHOl'T,
Newfane, Vt. 40-13
FOR SALE ThoroiiKhbrcd Chester
Wldto Plus. JOHN NK3U1TT, West
lirattleboio. 3S-39
FOR SALE 14-lnch ensilage cutter
with 32-foot carrier. 1. J. DUTTON.
W'aidsboio, Vt. 3li-tf
FOR SALE I'pilBht piano lu 111 Mt
class condition. Cheap. liKiuire ot MV
HON Jull'NSON, Jamnlca, Vt. 40
FOR SALE One ush chamber suit, 1
black walnut extension table, 1 good
washing machine. Addiess ilox 135,
Clarion, Vt. 39
FOR SALE Apple barrels, legulatlon
size, wood hoops. Imiuiro of W. A.
BIIOWN, WilnuiiBton or HAROLD DAV
10 N 1 'OUT, JacKsonvllle. 3 -1 f
FOR SALE Drv Wood, llttcd TPlr
stove; seasoned under shingles, 7.50 per
coru loau, delivered. Aiuiiess M. A.
THOMPSON, Guilford, Vt. 39-42
FOR SALE Hay hoise, S yeacs old,
annul ana kiiiu, gooiii sauuie nuu driving
hoise. Price $100. Inquire of MVUON
JOHNSON, Jamaica, Vt. 40
FOR SALE Hay horse, S years old;
sound and u goou driver; also one now
earriago. express wagon and harness. G
?t.JyS;a Lucuat St. Tel. 231-X. 15-tf
FOR SAL'E Two young horses, weight
1,200 and 1.3V0 lbs. Taken lor debt and
are offered for, sale for want of use.
iTieo 5i2i each, call 79 Main Street. 40
LEGAL NOTICES.
OMMlrMJlONlCItS" .jfoTlCH.
J ESTATE OF PETER LARSON.
The undersigned. huvinsr buen an
pointed by tho Honorable Probato Court
lor tiiu Dlstiiet of Mailboio, Comniis
sloneis, to lecelve, examine, nnd adjust
the claims and demands of all pel sons
against the estate of Peter Larson, late
or lirattleboio, in said district, deceased,
and all claims exhibited in offset there
to, hcieby give notice thnt we will meet
ioi- inc puipose aroresald, at the Brat
t cboro Trust Co.. In the village of Drat
tleboro, In said district, on the 27th day
ot ( etober and 29th day of .March, next,
from 10 o'clock a. in., until 3 o'clock i.
in., on euch of said days, and that six
imjiiiuH uoni ine Mb uay or October, A.
D., 1916. Is thf time limited hv fin 111
court for said creditors to present their
v.aiiii.-, io us ior examination and a ow
an e.
Dated at Hrattleboro. Vt this Dth day
of October. A. D. 1910.
CLKNHAM JONES,
C. K. MER1LL
1U 1- Commissioners.
CHRISTIAN SCIENCE WINS.
Far-Ronching Decision in Court at Al
bany Permits Practice- Without a
License
itiKlits of Christian Scientists to tient
persons afflicted with disease without
n license to practieo medicine nrn not
i'orth as a principle of state law in a
uL-cision or tito court ot appeals in Al
bany, N. Y., Tuesday. 'Tho ruling is
considered tho most important nnd far
renching victory believers in tho Chris
tian Science faith have ever won in
tho state. Tho only qualification to un
limited latitude is thnt Christian
.Science practitioners in the treatment
of bodily ailments must conform to tho
tenents of tho Christian Science church.
The decision even rocs so far as to say
that the provision of the state law which
was inteipreted ns lepylizinB the most un
restiicted tieatment bv Christian Seien.
tists "is stronger than .the provision of
the constitution of this state which per
mits the flee exercise and enjoyment of
leiiuious pioicssion and wotslup without
disci imination or picferencc."
Tho opinion, wiitten by JikIko Chase.
was conciiued in by all of the six sitting
judges except Judge Collin, who did not
vote. Samuel Se.-ibury, who wus the sev
enth member of the bench when tho case
was aigued and who since has l MiiMnd
and become Democratic candidate for gov
ernor, was disqualified from paiticipating
in the decision because of his legal connec
tion with the case before he became n
judge.
i in- ichi aciiou was instituted by the
Xew Voik County Medical society in 1011
and it Was thiougli evidence obtained by a
woman investigator, employed by the so
ciety, that the ease was btouglit into
comt. it was brought against Willis Ver
non lole of I-1 ft 1 1 avenue, Jew lotk, a
mi'isium r-cience practitioner, who was
convicted in 1U12 of practicing medicine
illegally becauso he used the treatment
prescribed by his church. A line of $100
was imposed, the eouit of appeals ro
versed the judgment of conviction, i emit
ted (lie fine and oidcred a now trial.
liussln is estimated to havo moro than
-l,uuu,o()u acres of land that would pro
duco cotton if irrigated.
The (lermnn villagu of Itemborn lins
a linden tree thnt is said to bo moro
than 1,'JOO years old.
TWELVE PAGES
BItATTIVEBOHO.
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 0, 1910.
THE VERMONT PHCENIX
Published la Drattleboro erery Friday.
SUnSORIPTION PRICK tl.SO A YEAR.
$1.00 for eight montlii; 75 centa for tlx
months: E0 cent! for four months; 40 cents
for thre montha. All aubicriptlons aro pay
able atrlctly In advance and alt papers are
stopped promptly at their expiration untoss
tho subscriptions are renoned.
Rales ot display advcrtlslnc furnished on
application. Small classified advertisements,
10 cents per line first insertion, nre cents per
line each subsequent Insertion.
(Entered at the Drattleboro post office as
second class mall matter.)
Statement of the Ownership, Manage
ment, Etc.
acquired by the Act of Congicss of Au
KUst lit, larJ, , ,, , ,
oi The Vermont Phoenix, published
every Krlduy at Hiuttleboio, Vt., for
October, lull).
State of Vermont, uouniy oi iiiunum,
Tl.t'.'..'- ..... .,.,,,.(., t.lllill. Ill tltlfl fllP
ijt-iuit: iiiu, ii ii'iihij v, ... ....
the state and luunty utoiesaid, person
ally appearid Ilowai.l t". like, who, hav
in; been duly swoin uccoidlntr to law, de-
.....l1 L...to tlinf liu Itt till. llimlllPHM
manager of The Hrattleboro Dally lie-
lormer, aim inai inc ioiiuwihk io, ij
t.ti. 1nmii.uiiiii nmi iifilrir il true
stiileinont of the ownership, management
tanu II a uany paper, inu l-iiuhihviiiii,
etc., of the aloiesanl publleatlon tor the
date shown In tho ubovo caption, le-
I... ..... ... ..I' Alurilul Hi I'll' IMII-
bodied lu section 143, Postal Laws and
Keguiaiioiis, priuieu on mu ii-iviou
this toun, to wit:
ll-l.n niininn (itlH llllilrPHM
I. 1 tlilt mu liiuni.i' v. .
es of the publisher, editor, managing
editor, and business manageis nre:
Publisher, UrattleDoro puuiiniing ui
Hrattleboro, Vt., lMllor, Walter K.
1 1..I.I.....T I), ittli.lijii 1. Vt - Miiritii-lnir 1-.d
itur, Walter k. Hubbard, ltrattk-boro, Vt. ;
liusiness .Manager, nuwuiu muc, mm
tleboio, Vt.
I IIIU mu iiitiitifj -
nnd add: esses of individual owners, or. If
a eoipoiatlon, gives Its name and the
.n ..t ..il.lwmuiia fif utlll-WllllllllirM
lllllll, lllli uimil...-i.n ... " --
owning or holding 1 per cent or more of
tile loiai amouni oi un-iv.j .
bard, liiattleboio. Vt.: II. O. nice, lliat-
iieboro, vi.: ij. i. sialic, inuincww.w,
Vt.; C. V. .Mann, lirattleboio, Vt.
3. That the known bondholders, mort
gagees, and other secuilty holders own-
i i.. .i.ii.... 1 ..mi uniil vi- niiirn nf til
ing or iiuimiiik t I'ti ...... .
tal amount ot bonds, moltgngcs, or other
set-unties uio til mere uiu uuirc,
1. i imi o.
nbove, giving the names of the owners,
stockholders, and security holders, If any,
contain not on.y the list of stockholders
I rttl.... linn nl f -1 irninha tlPTt
Una Btxruril liuiuom in mcj iii','"-
tho books of the company but also. In
eases wuere uio aiocKuoiuei ui bc-uhij
holder- uppears upon tho books of the
company uh nnMit-tj ut in iuy un.i.
larv relation, the name of tho person or
.-I .1 ...i...... n.,nV, Ifiiulnn la
corpuruiion iiuju mium nin." ...
acting, Is given; also that the said two
paragraphs contain statements cmbrac
Ing nlllant's full knowledge and belief as
. . .1... -t.. nx.l null- tlnnil 1111-
der which stockholders nnd security hold
ers who do not appear upon the books of
the company ns trustees, hold stock and
securities In a capacity other than that
of a bona tide owner; and this nfllant has
. .. l,n1tnli ,Hnt nnv ntlipr llfir-
IIO rcitAUII in "ciicii; mt.v ..... .
son, association, or corporation has any
Interest uireci or iiuiue.-, in ami, vw.n,
bonds, or other securities than ns so
stated by him. ,.
11V VIVL ... l.iv- 1
Sworn to and subscribed before mo
this 20th day of Sept. 1916.
(Heal.) Vv A. SHUMAV
(My commission expires Jan. 31, 191..)
Tho attempt to call out several hun
dred thousand union workers in Xew
York city in a sympathetic strike be
cause some of the employes of the
street railroads are on n striko has
failed completely. The sympathetic
strike ought to havo about as much
standing in union nffairs as absent
treatment in the practice ot medicine.
The only war in this part of the coun
try at the present time is tho milk
war. Tho farmers who furnish tho lac
teal fluid for Boston and Xew York
aro insisting that they get moro pay,
nnd thev will hold back their product
until their demands aro complied with.
The farmers are deserving of a fair
profit. In comparison with other food
commodities milk is selling for less
than any other food product on the mar
ket, considering its importance as a
necessary food.
Tho ninn who says "one vote don't
count for much," and who stays away
from tho polls, might lenrn somothing
by reading the newspapers. A Repub
lican senatorial nomination in a near
by Now Hampshire district which is
equivalent to an olectinu wns won
by two votes in tho recent primary,
nnd the town of StufTord, Conn., voted
license by a margin of two votes at n
timo when over 7.10 citicus enmo to
the polls. Regardless of tho probablo
outcome it is the duty of every tax
payer to vote at every election.
Orange county, Vermont, will un
doubtedly have tho distinction of fur
nishing governors of two states this
year. The Republican nominee in Mich
igan is Albert E. Sleoper of Bad Axe,
a untivo of Bradford, his birthplace
being only a few miles south of the
ancestral homo in Newbury, where H.
W. JCeycs, the Republican nominee in
Now Hampshiro was born. By tho way,
did you know thnt Hornco F. Graham,
tho govemor-to-bo of Vermont, is not
a "niitivo sonf" Ho was born in New
I York stnte, but ho is nnno tho less n
loynl Vermontor on that account.
Henatoir Mnrtine, nftor winning n
rononiinntion ngnitiHt the President's
cnudidnte, took n run over to Wash
ington, where the President is not
stopping just now. Ho says he's
loyal, but he gave the President n
neat rap in an interview which ho
granted. "The President," ho said,
"who had denounced tho Smith
Nugent machine and declared that it
ought to bo driven out of Xew Jer
sey politics, found himself working
with these men to defeat inc." Sena
tor Mnrtine can uil'oid to smile in view
of the fact that he beat the machine,
plus the inllueiico of the President in
the President's own state, by over 0
000 majority in the primniics. And
Martine spent only .$,.-() in his cum
paign, which was nbout a fortieth of
what it cost the two lending candi
dates for tho Republican senatorial
nomination in the Vermont primaries.
The house burning nnd murder of
Mrs. 1'icdcrick L. Small at Ossipee, X.
II., is one of tho most brutal tragedies
i:i Xew Hampshire's crime nnnals. Tho
murdeier had strangled the woman
with a iopc, tied her head in a cloth
moistened with ehlorot'rom and lef
tho body to be burned up in tho house
hie. By accident the body fell into a
pool of water in the collar and was not
charred when pulled out of the lire.
Thus u cold-blooded murder was dis
closed nnd justice must now look for
tho perpetrator. Frederick L. Small,
the husband, is under airest and eir
eiinistnutinl evidence points stronulv
toward him. She was his third wife 13 111 -'hargo of the car, was employed
and ho gained notoriety by bringing1!.! Brothcr? Vus to this
. . , , b r I week, but is now m the service of tho
suit against A. H. Soden, then pres.- BoBton & Maine Railroad company, tho
dent of the Boston Xntional baseball company having taken over tho con
team, for alienation of his second tro1 of tlle car- 1,1 tIlia connection a
i ir . -it i statement made a few davs aco bv
w.fe's affections. A possible motive i.resident CoUn. o tho )q
for getting No. 3 out of the way is Milk Producers' association is of in-
found in tho fact that Mrs. Small 's life
wns insured for $10,000, with her hus
band as the beneficiary.
The Phoenix lias more limn once de
clared that the country and state were
suffering from too much legislation,
aim u is not witnout distinguished
company in this conviction. Many leg-
islators, without o.iy particular reform
in mind, feel thnt they must do coinc
thing to show their constituents back
home, thut they arc making u record.
Tho result is a mass of useless nnd ot
times conflicting statutes. What we
need is fewer laws and a better en-
forccmcnt of those wc already have. A with their vote last week a large ma
few days ago in an address in Now .irity tlle' c,ut off shipments Sun-
' ; ., . ,,. . . ... , day, Alden Brothers having failed to
ork United States Senator ttcckB ot";ot tfl0 aemand or an8 -a
Massachusetts said that far too much price. The amount shipped from Brnt
leglslation is being enacted by congress tleboro has been relatively small, tho
and tho state legislatures. Ho asserted . 1u11' 0 milk being delivered at tho
. --nn i i i East Putney stntion
that more than -j,000 laws have been) A fcw of tll0 8hipi,er3 havc (leciincrt
placed on tho statute books in the last to stand with tho others and havo con
ten years, "many of which make lit- tinued their shipments. At the East
tie difference one way or another. Pntncy station Monday, for instance,
,..,,,,, about one-third the usual amount was
while some nro distinctly bad." Sen- takcn nb0ard, and since then the
ntor Weeks believes this to be a bnd 'amount has been very small,
thing, as must everv man who stops to I The collector on tho Westminster
consider tho subject. Fewer laws andiWost. ro,utcf I'k:kci1 P ' enipty cans
. ., . J ... 'on his last trip, and those who dclivor
moro rigid enforcement would be a tl.,,ir ,..., m:lk t,lril(,(i ii ,lin
blessing to the country, but how the'eaus they havo belonging to Alden
chnugo can bo brought about is not 'Brothers, except those who will continue
, .., t to send their milk to that firm.
eus to ten. g f t, frmrB whn nrn with
BULGARIA INVADED.
Itunianian Soldiers Cross the Danube,
and Take a Position Menacing the
Goraans.
ine news icniure o. . " Tt
uiropean war has .been t o Invasion of
Tho news feature of tho week in the
V.
Bulgaria by tho Rumanians, who have
T t" t V r. said: "it is my duty as a United States
ed tho Danube in a largo force district nttorl to'mnko ftn inve8tlga
aro in a threatening position in timl of nnyt,lin that ook3 ,iko n C0Bm.
crossed
nun aro in a threatening position in
tho rear or the torccs commanded y,
the gieat German general, on Mack- n,oditics, and I intend to do so. The
cns,'ii, while other armies of tho disunited States attornoy general is tho
tcnte allies are giving him battlo on ony authority thnt hns the right to
the opposito side, making his position bring action against such a comblno
preenrious. tion, but it is a part of my duty to re-
Two moro nir raids have been made 'port such a matter. Accordingly I shall
on England, but with little, result. In inquire into the proposed increase of tho
the Hist it is thought that ten vessels price of milk by tho Now England pro
were used, and two turned th.'ir at- duccrs."
tention to London. Ono was brought Farmers on tho line of tho Rutlnnd
down by the anti-aircraft guns and the railroad between Bennington nnd Rut
other disappeared without making a laud, who ship their milk to C. O.
real attack. IBrigham & Co., of Boston, and who
Tho French and English continue to
mnko slow gains on the front in north
ern France, but nothing of a vital na
ture has occurred thero during the
week.
Senator Page's Illness.
(Bennington Banner.)
That the physical condition of Senn
tor Carroll S. Page is serious is coming
to bo tho general belief throughout
tho state. No statement from tho fami
ly or physicians hns been nindo but
tho fact that tho senator is in bed at
the Rutland hospital in euro of n spec
ialist on diseases of a serious sort
has given rise to rumors which grow
in volume. The people of the state of
Vermont regardless of party or faction
hopo that tho condition of Senntor
Pago is not as bud as reported, that his
recovory may be complete and that lie
may bo able to resume his seat in the
senate when congress ngnin assembles.
Nothing is calculated to jar n protty
girl liko tho inasculino attentions bo
stowed upon nnothor girl who is homely.
A wntch requires 175 separate parts,'
more thnu L,I00 operations being nee-1
essary in its manufacture
MILK WAR HAS BEGUN
Farmers in This Section Holding
Off for Higher Prices.
Small Proportion of Normal Amount
Being Shipped on Brattleboro Car
Some Aro Separating It.
War between tho milk producers in
this section and tho contractors in Bos
ton began in earnest Sunday morp
ing, Oct. 1, as voted by the producers at
a meeting in Bellows Falls last week
in tho event thnt the contractors failed
,to pay tli.' price demanded, which is
fiO cents a can, Boston platform, or
less than n cent a quart in advance.
Representatives of the producers who
have furnished milk for what is known
as the Brattleboro ear, tho milk car
which runs from Brattleboro to Bellows
Falls and takes milk at stations along
tho lino for Aldcn Brothers o Bos
ton, met one of tho firm, Mr. Alden, in
Bellows Falls Saturday for a final con
ferencc. The situation was talked over
and numerous questions wore asked, but
rnc producers got little satisfaction out
of the conversation except that Mr. Al-
den said he would pay as much as nny-
body. Some of tho contractors in Bos
ton have agreed to pay the price de
manded, but Ablen Brothers have not
dona so.
On Sunday morning the ear, which
previously had been hauled over tho
route on a passenger train, beenme part
of a freight train which leaves hero bo
tween 8 and !) o'clock, nrriving at its
destination much later than formerly.
Hugh Crawford of Brattleboro, who
terest:
"If the dealers don't givo us tho
price wo ask we will not sell milk to
them," said President Colby. "Wo
can, after Oct. 1, ship our milk to Bos
ton ourselves and wc will and can sup
ply tho peoplo of Boston ourselves.
There will be plenty of dealers to buy
, it at 50 cents a can and there will bo no
, milk famine. Previously wo could not
ship milk to Boston becauso tho con-
tractors controlled tho cars. Now wo
can, and we will unless they come to our
terms."
Tho producers who have supplied
milk for tho Brattleboro car havo, boon
farmers in Brattleboro, Chesterfield,
Dummerston, Putney, East Putnoy,
Westminster West, Westminster, Bel
lows Falls nnd Alstcad In accordnnco
holding their milk are using it temporari
ly to feed stock, whilo somo aro making
butter or separating tho cream and send-
'"B creameries Thoy boliovo they
that wav thnu bv Bcn.yma it t0 tho car
at tho old prico.
In discussing tho proposed increase a
iaya nS United States District At
t0'Q W. Anderson of Bostot
ict At
Boston ti(m of nnytu:ng
i,inn t l.mroncn th nrino nf nnm.
recently Deeame members ot tho ver-
mont Dairvmcn's league, also aro pro-
pared to maintain tho stand taken for
better prices and Sunday many with
held their milk. Wnllingford farmers
and other producers in that section ro
preparing to separate their milk and
ship tho crenm to tho Manchester Dairy
company.
1
In Republican Ranks. i
(Concord, X. H., Monitor.)
If there wns nny doubt regarding the
political destination of tho members of
the Progressive party, tho New York
primaries should havo put an end to it.
There wero somo -10,000 Progressives on
rolled in that state. Only about 40' per
cent ot' them took tho trouble to partici
pate in tho primaries anfl a majority' of
tieso cast their votes for Gov. whit
man, n regular Republican, who was a
candidate for rciiomination by his own
party in the snmo primary. Tho Pro
gressives aro back in Republican ranks
nccordiug'to every tost that has tieen
made in any election, anywhere, sTiico
1012. The national election next month
will furnish the most conclusive proof
of this.
Ono milo of railway roquiros 270
tons of rails,
