THE WEATHER FORECAST. -
Local howers to-day ; probably fair to
morrow. Highest temperature yesterday, 74; lowest, 61,
Detailed weather, mall and marine leports on page 17.
tttt
IT SHINES FOP ALL
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 299.
NEW YORK, SUNDAY, JUNE 25, 1916 . Copyright, lDlfi, by the Sun 1'rintlng and I'ubllahini) Association.
56 PAGES.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
RUSSIANS MAKE
ADVANCE WEST
OF BUKOWINA
i
goizc Kilty, 15 3Iiles From
Kolomca, Important
Railway Town.
GERMANS AT CENTRE
ARE OX OFFENSIVE
Berlin Suys Muscovite
Counter Attacks Have
Been Repulsed.
frtttal Cable HetpatcK to Tiiic Stv
Uinpon, Juno 24. With practically
or II: o Rukovvina In his control as
fix n the foohllls of the Carpathians
On HrusllofT Is pushing westward to
smM the Important railway centra of
Kii'i ilea, possession of which would
threaten the Austro-Gcrtnan line In
pallci.i
A lumens west of Snlatyn along the
Truth yesterday the Russians occupied
t height overlooking the Itybnltza, a
tilliut.iry of the Pruth, and seized the
town of Kuty. on tho Cze'remosz, an
ether tributary of the Pruth forming
ler- the boundary between the Buko
-ina ii n J Gallcla.
Thro three points mark the present
portion of the Russian lino advancing
on Kolomea, in isllne extending from
the Unlctor at Nlezwiska, where It
eoiir.-t with the Russian line on the
JtrMM. south to Kuty. At the Itybnltza
h.hrht this line is only somo fifteen
n::i'.s from Kolomea.
I'lKlitlntc nt K Impoliiiia.
M .inwhlle, further south, the left wing
of t.ie Russian army In the Buko win a
lias swung further westward to Kim- I
palling, whero Vienna announces stub-
born righting. At this part of the front
the Russians are following the railway (
nar of the crownlajid.
The Austrian War Otllce says the Itus
slans were forced to evacuate Kuty, and
Uie Itusslans were checked west of Tar
t)opo and Raiizlwlloiv.
In Vulliiu.'i the struggle continues
with violence, hut without any apparent
change in the ptrieral situation. The Itus- 1
sians announce desperate fighting west
of Tortschln, with the repulse of Ten
rondo attacks. The Cerman War Otllce ,
ays that t!en. von I.lnslngen has pushed 1
byond the Zubllnu-Watyn-Swlnlatsche I
line, i,outh of Tortechln, and lias held Ms '
advantage In the face of tierce counter
attacks, -while steady Increases an- being.
made In the number of ItusMan prisoners.
The Russians are on the offensive In
the region north of the Llpa. at a point 1
northeast of Oorochow, and to tho west '
und mirthw est of TortKhln, according tn '
tne Austrian official statement, which 1
Iiressuro here and that Husslan attacks
hve been repulsed.
Wllve on Xnrlltrrn I'ront.
Pporadlc fighting Is reported from the
ntii(-u part of the eastern front, from
he t'M-ifl marshes to the Gulf of Riga.
T e i.. rmans ate bombarding the Ux-,
kui lir'dnehead on the Dwlna and the
ilukMii- rlcllvered a surprise attack yes-
ifro j utir Illukst.
T ,r following Is the official Russian
U t nciit issued to-day
I ihe llukowlna, west of Snlatyii,
.i .id.iiielng. Vvstvrday eveiiiiif
i iiiled a height on the bank of
tl. l:bnltza.
tti uptured the town of Kuty. tak
b lr.'i prisoners and four machine
pir,-
T'u. enemy Is bombaMIng the Iks
V'l l bridgehead, In the region of
Mnt we effected a coup do main.
Tlv enemy attempted a counter at
t.ei. but was repulsed. After their
ii' ic.it thi
Germans bombarded our
T'J' Hums at long range,
r'n Thursday tho enemy violently
bit ibaideil with artillery the sector of
the litriitna farm southeast of Wlliia,
bombarding tho village of Klby. At
nich'fill tht. enemy opened an offen
sive against tho Berezina farm, but we
Hacked with the bayonet and he fled,
1'iviiie numbers of dead.
West of Tortschln desperate llght
trif cominu,-(. Tho enemy's attacks
In the region of tho village of Zulillno
wjre repulsed,
Souihe.-i.st of Swlnjuchl tho enemy
ftri'l heavily at tho village of I'us
toriyty and then niado an offensive, but
were rf pulsed with heavy losses.
The (ifflcial statement Issued by the
Aunnan War Office to-night follows :
'" the BukowliiH there was stub
born fighting at Klmpolung. Tho
enm was forced to e vacua to Kuty.
Northwest of Tarnopol and Jtadze
wllow HiissIhii attacks were repulsed.
In Volhynla we nro resisting north
ef the Llpa. northeast of Gorochow,
west and northwest of Torczyn.
Th German statement follows:
Partial advances bv the Russians
outh of Illukst and north of Wldsy
were repulsed. A German aeroplane
"madron attacked the railway station
at Kolozany, southwest of Molodechno,
where troops were observed entrain
ing. Bombs alo were dropped on rail
way establishments at Lumlnlec.
Gen, von I.lnslngen's forces ad
amed to and beyond the Zubllno-Watyn-Kwlncatschke
line. Klorce coun
ter attacks were repulsed. The num
wr of Russian prisoners Is steadily
growing
Gen. Count von Dothnier's forces
nave been occupied only In minor en
tagenients U-tween advanced detach
ir.tnts. despatches received here to-day from
'Willi say that the Gertnun counter
effns!e now extends over a front of
Ishly miles, from Kolkl, on tho Styr,
northe.iht of I.utzk, nearly to the
pillclan frontier, and that Gen, von
Unilngen has enveloped the Itusslans
where the latter had bent back the Teu
tonic line and Is gradually but steadily
Preening theni back all along the line
tfward l.utzk,
Although tho Germans are greatly out
numbered, the Russian loeses are de
scribed In the Berlin deHp.itrhes as enor
mous as a result of tlmlr repeated hut
Vain cuunter attacks in.nl. in un effort
to eontinus their Interrupted advance
Ward Kovel and Vladlmlx-Volynlskl.
I'artlier south, along tho Gallclan
tordfr, the Berlin despatches say, the
Ruerlans have resumed tho offensive
azalnst Gen. von Bothmer's troons In
rdr to relieve the preaiure on their
THE SUN TO-DAY
CONSISTS OK SIX SEC
TIONS AS FOLLOWS:
FIRST -CnerlNtw . . I2-
SECOND -Sporting. Kenneli. J-18
Automobilei . . 6 J
THIRD -New! of the Retort.
Drimt, Faihioni,
School! 10
FOURTH PictoriitMiguine 8
FIFTH Spec! it Fetturei. Booki,
Queue , Chen . . .12
SIXTH Foreign, Retl Ette.
Girdcni. Foultry, Finan
cial, Problem! ... 8
Tottl
56
RtaJtti at ntusitalttt uht it not ti.
ttitt all e) thtst tttliont iclll conjir t
Jattr on " Tht Sun" by notify tnl tin Pub
Utction Dtpattmtnt at ontt by tht phn$
(2200 Bttbjnan) ani mliln itctlont
utll bt promptly JoruarJtil If pouthlt.
lines In the Lulzk sector, hut no Impres
sion has heen made upon the Austro
Uerman lines by these attacks. It Is
admitted In these despatches that the
Russians are (raining In the llukowlna,
where Gen. Pflanzer Is retiring.
FEAR BLOODSHED IN PANAMA.
l'.lecllona on To-dnj 1 S. Soldiers
Itpndy nt Boundary.
Special Cable Vetpatc't to Tin Scs.
Panama. June 24. Disturbances took
place to-day In the provinces. Ameri
cans have been ordered to keep out of
Panama to-morrow, when tho elections
take -place. Bloodshed Is regarded as
certain. American soldiers ore stationed
on tho Canal Zone boundary to preserve
order. .
CROSSES ANDES IN BALLOON.
Argentine Arrnnant'a Kent Is First
In History.
Special Cable Pciitc to Tin Sex.
IM'ekos Athks. June 14. Eduardo
Hradley, an Argentine aeronaut, has
crossed the Andes In a balloon. This
Is the first time In hlstody that the feat
has been accomplished.
I it; , i oninmKU ni ... ... i.t-tii
t 1 - . I'. ..i I . .. A , .1 ..
Bnrt Passed Lspallata. In Argentina, af
noon,
GERMAN DESTROYERS
CAPTURE BRITISH SHIP
'Vnlrn flip Pncepnn-nr StenlllPr
luti "t.iit i .Tt miiLr
Rrusscls Into Zoo-
brugge.
liONPOX, June 24. While on her way
rom Kotterdam to Tilbury with pas-
, ,, ... , . .
rtn'n "" mal!s ho I,rl,lsH '"amtihlj.
Brussels was captured yesterday by
Herman destroyers and taken Into Zee-
brugge.
The Great K.ustcrn Hallway Comiuny,
the owner of the vessel, announced her
capture to-duy. As far n-s Is known there
wep no Americans on board. The ma-
refugees on their way to KugUnd
The Gorman drstrovers evidently raine
from Zeebrugge, In Belgium, to capturi'
the Brurels, as the route between Til
bury, on the Thames, and Rotterdam
runs ncn the southern end of the North
.ed, abul forty miles north of the Bel-
i gitin port.
The Meamshlp Ilruels was built In
1302 and Is of 1,3" tons
400 ON JIERCURY DROWN.
Pise narnpeil li ( IIiikIiik to Top
of Vi'el' .Musi.
Petroorap, June 21. 1'our hundred
out of six hundred passengers hxt their
lives when the Russian MeaniMilp Mer
near Odessa and sank. Tho ship sank
i near Odessa and sani. The ship sunk
In five minutes, and nlthouith steamhlt.s
and tugs hastened from Odessa most of
the p.isenKers and crew had gone down
before they arrived. I'lvn saved them
selves by clinging to tho top of the
mast, which remained above water
French Steamer Mernult SnnU.
' l-oNrsi.v, June 21. The French steamer
i .Merault Is reported sunk.
The Merault displaced 2,290 tons,
was registered at St. Nazalre
Khc
0RPET TO TAKE THE STAND.
C'nM- Will Probably (in lo the' .Inrr
This Week.
WifKEHAS, 111., Juno 2t Counsel for
Will M. Orpet, the university student on
trial for the death of Marlon I-imbort,
pleaded to-day to hive the case taken
from the jury, but th's was denied by
Judge Donnelly A motion that the
Pourt Instruct the Jury to return a ver
dict of not guilty aleo was denied.
Orpet will take the stand in his own
defence on Monday, ills lawyers intend
fo prove his Innocence by mathematics,
fn arguing a motion to strike out of
the records the testimony of Or. Ralph
(.Winter, the Chicago mycologist, James
II, Wllkerson of counsel for the defence
Is believed to have revealed his plans.
The opening arguments will be nvide, on
Monday. Tho casn will probihly go to
the Jury next week.
$1,500 DOG JUST ONE BITE.
Mrs. I'etrr Oder's I niporleil f.rlf
fun Killed nt WrMohrMer SIioit.
WrrtTE Plains, N. V,. June 24. Three
pounds of dog flesh, which, nlle nnd to
t-M her. were rated at rinl) a pound, fur
nlshed Just one mouthful this afternoon
to a harlequin Great Pane weighing more
thnn 100 pounds.
The two dogs met at tl.e fourth an
nual show of the WeHtchester Kennel
Club. The small dog was a Brussels
griffon named Cedar Bambino. Mrs.
I'ctcr Ceder of Sunnymede recently Im
ported Cedar Bambino, which was re
garded as tho most typical of his breed
ever brought to this country, Before tho
dog came here he had won many prizes
in Belgium and Mrs. Coder had repeat
edly refused to take $1,000, holding nut
for 11.600.
The Judging at tho show this after
noon had almost been completed when
the tiny bit of dog aristocracy wandered
near the a rent Pane. There was a snap
of tho immense Jaws of the big dog, nnd
where there had been two dogs was only
one and corpse.
STORM IN SENATE
OYER MILITIA PAY
House Provision Stricken Out
in Committee and New Meas
nro Is Opposed.
C.OHE AND HEED IX FIGHT
Oklahoma Scnntor Charges an
Attempt to Capitalize
Patriotism.
Washington, June 24. The Senate
took action to-day by way of disapproval
of tho House's attitude toward the
militia. A bill offered by Senator Reed
of Missouri to pay the militiamen 30
a month, nftcr being vigorously opposed
was put over on an objection by Senator
Gore of Oklahoma.
Mr. Jteed had asked Immediate con
sideration for It, Senator Gore suggested
the bill was an effort to "capitalize pa
triotism." A lively colloquy followed,
While tho Senate was busy with the
militia compensation bill the Senate
Committee on Military Affairs was nt
work on the Hay resolution which pased
the llouso yesterday and authorizes the
'resident to call the National Guard
Into service. When the Senate com
mittee finished consideration of the reso
lution It had cut out the provision
for the payment of $30 a month to
families of the guardsmen during- their
absence on military duty and substituted
un amendment authorizing the Secretary
of War to excuse from service guards
men on their own application who could
establish that tliey had dependent rela
tives. Tho method of excusing or discharg
ing members of the mllltla from service
on the ground that they may have do
pendent relatives was turned over to
the Secretary of War to work out under
u system of rules nnd regulations. The
resolution also wns amended to require
members of the National Guard to terve
"for the period of tho emergency," Instead
of for a period of three years, as the
House resolution provided.
The srnntr Substitute.
Otherwise the House resolution was
ordered favorably reported by the Senate
committee. The substitute for the House
section Is!
That when any member of the Na
tional Guard or the organized mllltla
ot any of the States, Territories, or
the District of Columbia, or any mem
ber of tho National Guard, or organ
ized mllltla reserves Is called or
.'rafted Into tho service of the United
States under section 1 of this resolu
tion and has a family dependent upon
him the Secretary of War Is authorized
under such rules and regulations as he
may prescribe to excuse auch person
i'Ion his own application, to honor
ably discharge him from the service.
The word "family" shall Include wife,
children, dependent mother, father and
sisters or brothers under the age
of 14.
Provided that when such person Is
excused from the call or draft, or dis
charged from the service he shall be
fiirloughed to the National Guard re
serve unless In the discretion of the
Secretary of War he Is given final
discharge.
Tho resolution is expected to come up
In the Senate for consideration Monday.
The debate on the Reed mllltla bill
was the most Interesting development of
the day outside of the Military Commlt
fee's action In amending the House
revolution. When Senator Reed pro
posed his bill and asked for Immediate
consideration Senator (fore declared that
the measure was equivalent to notifying
the mllltla members that tliey migni
have chiropodists nnd manicures to at
tend them and would tend to tn.ilte the
enlisted men of the mllltla "summer sol
diers" and "sunshine patriots."
Senator Heed's llefence.
Senator Reed In defending his pay
bill said the members of the National
Guard who go to Mexico may remain for
ve.irs to do the country's lighting nnd
obervid that he wanted them to feel
that "an opulent nation was giving some
thing to care for mo parem or wiie
and children at home."
Senator Gore retorted that the pro
posal of the Senator from Missouri was
undoubtedly prompted by the highest
and most humane motives, but that It
hardly comported with "that heroism
which was being paraded from one end
of the country to the other."
The Senator from Oklahoma said the
proposal grew out of a stato of mill-f-tei.m
nmomiilmr almost to rabies and
proposed nothing short of "capitalizing
patriotism." Ho reverted to arguments
against the mllltla at the time the army
reorganization bill was up and said
that the Reed bill was a proposal to
pension for life tho militiamen and
that It would grow until the mllltla, a
political organization, would be clamor
ing at every session of Congress for
Increased pay.
"We must look grim vlsaged war In
tho face," said Mr. Gore, "and not teach
the soldier to look on It as a plaything.
W must deal with war as war."
Senator Reed construed Mr. Cores
criticism of his bill as an Intimation that
the proposed pay plan originated with
the National Guard. He sharply re.
rented such an Intimation, saying that
no member of the National Guard had
spoken to him about tho pay plan. He
Slid the inea iiiai im; , uiikm.......
II had sprung from an "overheated and
overexcited brain."
Severe on Senator (fore,
"I am neither afflicted with militarism
on tho one hand nor peace Imbecility
on the other," continued Mr. Reed. As
he warmed to his subject Senator Reed
became very severe on his colleague
from Oklahoma.
"To sit behind a mahogany desk draw
ing a salary of $7,1100 a year and sneer
u, the tnune men In khaki uniform who
are bidding good-by to home and rela
tives to go out and IlKht for their coun
try Is unworthy ol me neimuir irwi
Oklahoma." declared r. eeii.
Senator Goro reiorieu inv mo .
fence of the guard must bo committed to
the hands of men who on the day they
are called out come to Congress to ap
praise their patriotism, I aay they should
be protected against their friends."
Senator Reed replied that Britain and
France were paying the sums ho had
promised. . , ,
"But they nro engaged In a real war,
responded Mr. Gore. "Who ever henrd
of paying pensions before war was de-
dared?" , , .
The Reed hill was finally referred to
the Committee on Military Affairs.
I-AIN'S KIBKWOBKH
fur (he Knnrth
OIIDKU KAIll.V.
It I'srk Pl(ce, Aiv.
N. Y. GUARD WANTS
TO GO AS DIVISION
Effort to Keep State Troops
Together During Service
in Mexico.
EARLY START EXPECTED
Gen. Wood Says Some May
Move for Hordcr To-morrow
or Tuesday.
The situation In connection with the
getting of supplies to the National Guard
has entirely changed In the past few
days, according to Major-Gen. Leonard
A. Wood, commander of the Division of
the East. The Government has been
slow In supplying the troops with equip
ment. In Gen. Woods's opinion, because
of tho concentration of all supplies In 1
one Quartermaster's depot In I'lilladel-1
phla Instead of In twenty-two separate
depots, one In each State of the Eastern
Division. It Is a physical Impossibility
to supply all of the States at the same
time under the present system, he says,
and the situation Is further complicated
hy the Industrial unpreparedness of the j
aountry the Inability to manufacture
and transport the necessary army sup
plies as quickly as they are needed In
an emergency llko tho present one.
The supplies. It was explained by staff
officers at the headquarters of tho East
ern Division on Governors Island yester
day, on which the State troops aro now
waiting, are the supplies necessary to
equip the additional men required In
placing regiments on a war footing.
Mont Wait (or .More Equipment.
The National Guard In the Stato .
tamps aro mobilized and equipped up
10 uic pea. iuuium. t u....
move until the additional supplies arrive. -
. .1.... ...... .,.,i,iu ,,.
The guardsmen are nlso In need of
hnroaa unit nttlKP ll rf t U 11 1 Tll.ll ?1 . Tilt
v.... ,iii,i, n out ion j
- ;
on 2,000 horses una rnuies aim iii
ernment has been asked for permission
to buy, but there Is delay due to the
necessity of Inspecting and approving
the animals before they are purchased.
In eplte of all delays and other ob
stacle, according to Gen. Wood, It is
probable that troopa from New Vork
S'ew Jersey, Massachusetts and Con-1
I .i. .in i...o-ln iiiovltiir toward the
nectlcut will begin morng towaru uie
border on Monday or Tuesday, and that i
30.000 or more will be on their way
by next Saturday.
I-robably the most Important nillilary
i conference of the day in New York was
between MaJor--n. o Jtyarr ana ucn.
Wood on Governor's Island.
Gen. o'Ryan arrived in the city early
joeterday, accompanied by his staff, Col.
ocrneliua a. vanoeruiu aim ,
Leslie Klnkald. After a brief visit to
his family he went to tho Seventh Regi
ment Armory, where he addressed the
400 recruits who are drilling there.
fllscuM Moving; of Guards.
Krom the armory (Jen. O'Ryan went
to Hotel St. Regis for a conference with I
Gov. Whitman. The remaUieder of the I
afternoon he spent with t.en. Wood on ,
Governor's Island,
i-t,. nrliiclnil oblect of the conference1
wmV to discuss the moving of the New
Yk awrt as a
of rSecreUr Hater Is Inu'rpre'ted to
mean tnai u t-oon as a rcgimeui m niu3-
i i
This Is a matter of much concern to
Gen. U Ryan, wno is uie oiuy niaie com-
mander .who has as much as a complete'
division under his orders. Gen. O'Ryan
Is anxious to move and operate his di
vision as a unit he secured Gert.
Wood's approval of the plan yesterday
Gen. Wood also recommended to Gen.
Punston at the front that the New Yoik
guard be kept together.
The feeling umong the men in the
New York guard, Gen. O'Ryan wild, Is
very strong that they be kept together
and not scattered over tho entire border.
OBEY ORDERS" TREVINO.
' anti-foreign feeling tlu v can and not
Despntch From tflrrnnrn (.enersl hitvlnR imil.tl Mrcess. President Wilson
1-uhlUheil In Hiivnnu. I Is subject to much iihiio on the part of
... ,, , , ,, ., tlie olllclnl organs eillrorlalb He lias
peaal table Despatch lo H.r. , w cnr,UW m fP long time bv
Havana, June 24. Any attempt on 1 tn, ,0tter class Mexicans, but t"-dav
the part of Gun. Carranza to repudiate tn( (lovernmeiit Is taking up the civ and
the Carriza.1 action seeniH to be contra- tn j,rPfc!, , vile
dieted by h. despatch which Senor Ker- "The lAbmil of Vera I'rus , is opened
rara's paper, the Herattlo, publishes from 1W) 0nciJ , rocr,m men to tight a foreign
Gen. Trevlno. It Is as follows; 'invasion, and the list of volunteers Is
ClUKUAlll'A, Juno 22. I can inform I ery funny. Yesterday lcen volun
vou that the people iinanlniously re- ! teered. and there are a few every day
sponded with an energetic and patriotic
attitude toward our Government, I
have simply confined myself to obeying
the orders of the First Chief.
Trevino
UNIONS WORKING FOR PEACE.
A merles n and Jlexleun l.almr l.enil
er to Confer,
U ABitlNOToN, June 24. --President
Gnnipcrs of the American IVderatlou of
Labor has nviteu renrepeniauven or or -
KiuilzeJ I labor III Mexico to confer will,
the executive council of tho Federation
In Washington on Monday to consider
means of averting hostilities between
Mexico and the United States
There Is little doubt that his Invita
tion will be accepted. Mr. Hampers) re
celved telegrams to-day from Mexican
leaders whom hn hail previously asked
to attend the oonfarence, notifying him
they had arrived at the border and ask
lug that he set a date for a meeting,
These telegrnms were sent from Kngle
Pass, Tex.
In addition to the Mexican leaders
who telegraphed from the border to-d i.v
the following Mexican labor men are In
Washington, ready to enter the confer
ence, the object of which Is to agree on
a proposition that can be submitted to
the Government of each country to tho
.-..it kn w.e mi.v be livoiilisl ! Carlos
Lovolra Chief of the Department of
Labor of Yucatan; Balfazar Pages, edl -
tor In chief of the leaning newspaper nt
Merlda, capital city or lucaian, rum
Col. Martinez or vera i.ruz. i.ur nnr
tlnez arrived In Washington to-day bear
ing a gold medal from the labor move,
ment of Mexico to Mr. Gompers, In
token of the understanding existing be
tween the workers of the two countries.
A letter was received to-duy front
Gov Georr" W, P. Hunt of Arlzoirt,
endorsing i ennfe renca.
21 MISSING AFTER CARRIZAL FIGHT;
RELEASE OF PRISONERS DEMANDED;
DRAS TIC S TEPS TO FOLLO W REFUSAL
HUNGRY MEXICANS
SACK FOOD STORES
Starvation and Roigu of Ter
ror Going On All Over
the Country.
CARRANZA IS
lli-niiil T.iiina (n Afnvinn fife
IHCmi JjIIICS 111 .UCMCO I lit
Papers Foment Anti
American Keeling.
A prominent business man here has
received a letter from an associate ln,,0, arili more apparent that the small
Vera Cruz, which In part follows
"Vr.n Cnuz, Mexico, June
For a long time Americans In Mexico,
foreigners nnd educated Mexicans In
general have been prophesying a reign
of terror here because of food conditions.
To-day It has arrived and the next sixty
days will seo terrible things in this
country, as the hunger Is already ex-
treme. I
There Is no visible relief apparent ,
and the people are going
ig t" sack and
pillage to obtain food. The Government,
tr (,n,n t.viR i,i.t I
couraglng It. and In many towns and the aim and another wound through the , A.1,.nou.sh. IT". rec'lvei
cities of the republic stores and markets boulder, but led his men In a chnrgo '0:!M hat ndlcnted the Mexicans had
were sacked on Sunday last. against somo Mexicans beh.nd tre'ifhns followed up their work of Wednesday,
"in Mexico city there has been no a-r.s the road which led to the -rutin "; of tho otllcers professed keen anxl
. itt, . ,.,... ....... k., ,. ,,,., ,e,- ,. ety to learn whether they had attacked
nearly two weeks. The bread 'lines be.
gin nt 2 In the morning In front of the
n .-.tiui.r. iimi iuf rtui euuiK .1 small
,irriount of the much desired commodity,
pPonIe wno havn . nn1 thrt monpv .
stock up with staples nre beginning to
feel the neeii, nnd in another two weeks
th.'re arfl fw l,"t-' "f h country that
n-ill not have tales of horrors to tell.
We are actually alarmed for fear we
will not get food here, and wo live in llrt hand knowledge of what happened i Thousands of t:arrnilMllepored
the least likely place for a food famine to Adair's gallat bad. ',. ...
Here things are commencing to get Vdalr was killed. "f ."'rlpiin Supply Mnr.
scarce, while the money situation has Troop K. under command of Capt. ' CotfMnfs, N. M . June 24. Several
the people, crazy. The big bills of ten. Morey on the left of tho line, was at- thousand Carranzlsta troops were to
twenty and one hundred were discredited tacked on both Hanks by Carranzlsta night reorted massing back of Carretas
a bare two weeks ago and many mer- ' reinforcements evidently rurhed up from 1-ass, commanding the Armrican corn
elian!!, were hopelessly ruined, as the Villa Ahumada. When Gen. Gomez ut munlcatlon lines north of DubUn. M- x-
Government forced the merchants to
keep -their stores open nnd take money
they knew would be paper the next day. ,
t .
- "orury,
"In Mexico city to-day the smaller
bills of the Vera Cruz Issue do not cir
culate. In fact, a panic has overtaken 1 Who 1'lrrd First Shot f
the country and the people do not know w , hh u a tM,iilell
what to do They feel they have no ; , m th(, Moros nf Ulfl baggier
chance of foreign help, as rarrnnz.. lnclMIv hor),e no,( ,,,,
asked the Red Cross to !e-ue when they I . . .
were doing the work here berore. anil as i Tri(ul, ,ln,er Moicv, was forced by tezurna and troops withdrawn finrn lir
the newspapers here say thero Is no ( ovt.rH helming numbers to take) refuge ln-ler towns are believed to be Inctud.d In
lamuie at an.
"In I'uebla the big market wis sacked
on Sunday morning In Mexico city the
three big markets were sacked ; in Oaxa
ca tho American Consul Is reported to
have left because conditions were mi-
endurable, and the Conul was no morn
resneeted than any one ele
"'pie an d the m .p-Mant- declare
nf , j',;1", ,
the(r. homPS or M VJ ;, xh,.y ,
The authorities In Orlzatu rorceil
'
"ol l'Un'n ln7 ",rV,
"'ol'T , "V, 'n"1
I " nnn ,s -aid
j i ii Jir i j e.
. . nwlilUhP.l . i1rrrt trlllmr tht
. . ... .
, '" ,0.,, m,KM it ,). tres and they
. nro,ected Some storts have
, ,
been loot'd
"Proclamations hae bee-r poted by
the people asking that th- Amerie ins
!r...::1,?":;V'.,,7r.j,,;:',!a,i;,';,,,,,r5
''' ...IVlnVr, ' Ti,. oolee
would welcome ntervent Ion T po
have been hard at work getting such
manifestations destroyed before the
1
them
searched and all the food taken by tho
Government, even the American Con
sul was not respected.
President -Wilson tssnllrd.
'The papers are fomenting all t.ie
Not long ago the Government pi.inneii an
anti-American demonstration They in
vlted Uie people through the press for
three days ahead of time The clubs
were Invited and people all over town
were urged to take part. There wen
nut over 200 men In the entire parade
"There are many Americans who ll
here who are genuinely fond of the more
decent Mexicans and hate to see the
country starve. You ma have no con- i
reptlon of conditions here unless you see
' , . .
I wish tne r niieu mines wo ,i , P
1 ........... ...-r, ...
the Pnlted States as hard as ,1m c,n and
1 his people are starving. If I had my
' would help him get hanged to a
very tall tree.
"I wish we could make your people
see that for the sake of humanity you
should do something hern. You would
euro If you really realized what It Is
like, Right now you are busy and do
not care, but If the American press was
to take up the Issue the Administration
would not daro to neglect the situation
much more.
"The antl-fnrelgn sentiment Is grow
ing because the Government blames all
things on tho American authorities and
people, and these people are Just foolbsh
enough to believe what they are told,
Thev are ready to blame anybody.
"News Just received from Oaxaca
registers bitter feeling against tin- Gov
eminent. Bodies lire strung on the tele-
I graph poles almost the entire length of
1 the road from Puehla to Oaxac.i city,
renx m ir- mm i i- "'' "";-
Hundreds of prominent Mexicans have
publicly announced themselves for In-
terventlon In Oaxaca, lieforn tliey nan r.enteren tne camp
"There was an nritl-Amerlran riot Iniimd had nn opporluulty to talk Willi the
I-achuca which caused iimiy Americans 1 stragglers who had preceded theni.
to withdraw to Mexico city. In Tolnca They said they saw (lep. ! ! r Gomez
the hunger Is terrible and the people nre . and his aid riding forward to parley
l.nt.lec fnr Ititerveol Ion Ml-. ItoblllSOIl. Willi CaPt, lln ll flllll lllter S.'IVV 11 1 111 IllOVe
Cnnsul In Oaxacu, has gone to Mexico
dir.-
SURVIVORS OF
BATTLE ARE PICKED UP
Stones Show That Americans Were Victims of a Plot.
Troops Attacked on Both Flanks by Carranzistn?.
Hidden in the Brush.
!;. I'Mtslll.NU's HKAIiQl'ARTErtS IN
HliAMEI)!Tm: 1'',ELB. Ju" 24 (11 A. M. radio to
Columbus, N. M. ). Thirty-three of tho
, eighty-four American officers and men In
I"'" C'arrlzal tight have either returned, ,that, ' wn not until then that
!. . ... , . , .... ,ucPl. Hyd Kstve the command for his
... ... ..u.iu.iii. i.- j....,.-., m...
roinmiind along the communication lines. ,
ltoports so far to-day account for all
.....
uUl ii-m,-u..e, u.um...K e.,. ...i.-
lean estimates of thirteen dead and sev
enteen prisoners are correct.
Am tlm tlnthltu tteenlnn kmiwti it Is
American band was the victim of a
plot That they gale a good account of
themselves was the unanimous testimony
of tint men who returned to the United
States lines.
Stnrlra of (Unlit Differ.
trlii. iln.lu. rf tli .ttrvltrnra illffap
retarding the opening of hostilities. One ,
nan of Troop C, however, who declared ,
be was In the thick of the fight till Capt ,
Charles T. Boyd fell mortally wounded,
gave the most coherent account.
'(,, ii,-. i i,n..t i v,
Bod was mortally wounded 1' st be-
fere he reached the trench
Then, led by Lieut Henry Adair, who
took Boyd's place, Troop C. whl-'n had
i.en ,lt the right of the linn when the
fighting opened, drove the Mexican." from
tnetr shelter anil tnrougn tarnzni
The surviving trooper who told this
story said he remained with Boyd until
the Captain died. The survivor had no .
m own request come out to parley wnn
CPl "d there Hppemed to b r.
strong Oirranzlsta force on the cene.
But when the parley was still on etouds
()f Jtm on cltn,,r nank ,i,cIo!)pj the np-
proach of the reinforcements
sn adobe house from wjilch the Amerl-1
canj, drove a small Mexican detachment
None of the returned men could give a
first hand account of what happened V squad of twehe machine guns , .stragglers who havo reached Gen. Vt
after the lioui was raptured. , rnouiitid on motorcycli s w as tested here shinu's headquarters agree that the
The stories of the survivors differ re- to-day. But the aetopl.we situation , Mexicans opened lire under raver
girding the opening of hostilities. One (grows worse. The aviation squad planned " ',u,,a "re uml,r cer of a
man of Troop C. howewr. w ho declared , to semi up one machine to-day. Pro- v'
ho was In the thick of the tight until
Capt Charles T Boyd fell mortally
wounded. gae the most coherent ac
Boyd rei-eleil a bullet tnrougn tne
l arm and anoth-.r wound through the
shoulder, but led his men In a charge
Mexicans behind trenches
itric.'n i r iMii t 1111.11 jt-ti it" iiif iiioui
, V V
yd was mortally wounded Just be-
fore he reached the trench.
Then led bv Lieut. Henry Adair, who
took Bojd's place, Troop C, which h.i.l
1 n at the right of the line when tin.
lighting opened, drove the Mexicans from
.r and through Currlzii. The
M.n-iv.,,g .ro.,, h tM ,h!, s,0ry
""''l he remained with Boyd until the
t su.vlvPr had no first
' ,..,,,., ,lh.,, ,,.,.,,.,, ,
. .' . , ,
through the shoulder. It is considered
Kos-ihle that Morey and his men fought
theli way through the Mexican lines
I and may b trying to get back t the
: American Irnes.
SKCOXn REPORT IN.
I'erslilin; CiMm l)o ii
nt ( urrlril.
Losses
;-an Antonio, June 21 A new reporr
rh.V.,MV ..'l'Tl,.nK. lT ',VnlKl,l "" tl",
Carrlzal fight, understood to reduce con-
aliierahly the --erlmisness of the Amcrl-
can oes, has been forwarded to Gen
Piiuston at San Antonio, 1 tls said
utll. i eieiiom o, ts neaio irt'lll lot-
tw i squadrons of the i:ieenth Cav:ilr
sent out to pick up Mirvivms of- the
Carrlzal tight. With I hem are sixteen
men who escaped the trap r the Car-
r.i ii?lit.ts Th! hpIlii-M the list of m'vliu.
down to forty-two.
One packer and eight enlisted men ofllv lompanles of siMy-tlw- men each to
C Troop and seven men of K Troup were ,,, ilc riiHiries. reservoirs . while
picked up yesterday morning by Lieut .
Mever near Santa Maria ! O"1 r" " e''"rd Is nwav.
All were hor-e holders and were not
actually engaged 111 the lighting. Their
SHiriCS W.-ie uie MUMP ii" IIIO.-" mill H
other str.igglei s who arrived
nt the
transmission lines yesterday.
lien. Pershing, In his report referred
to the number of those who previously
nan returnen to inn American leu as
eleven. With those who were rescued ' h,,-VM ' believes unmarried men should
by Lieut, Meyer the total number of i replace married men w Ith families nbso
those who had returned was twenty- lately dependent upon tlieni
ccn. , gie.it many men who have snxed
Thn total number of men In the two.i,, ,no regular army lire applying for
troops was learned to-day to liae been enlistment In the State mllltl.i. A num-elglity-fnur.
Gen. Pershing, offering a 1 lj0ri ), H.tltl. Un- been rejected be.
summary of his Information and explain- cause thej failed to pass tin- eve
lug that his conclusions were based l i tst i, which' Is rigid
such Information as lie had obtained
from the stragglers nnd from the press
reports, culled attention to the Indica
tions that there were fifty-seven missing,
nnd that press reports indicated fourteen
of these wern dead nnd forty-three were
prisoners.
Tho General does not account In his
report for the number of wounded, but
appeared to iissuiim that all these
wounded had beep capluied
All those brought In by Lieut Meyer
were horse holders mid llko those who
came In camp eMrday were not actil
ally 111 trie ngni i ney mm meir moi ics
i towaiil tne iiatik or ino .Arexican iroops
I that had begurr cloning In on the Amerl
Mwaid the Hank of tho Mexican troops
CARRIZAL
can force. According io tli'M story,
the first Intimation any one had that hos
tilities were determined upon was the
outburst of machine girn tire.
Tne men corroborated the accounts
. t(, dismount und return the fire.
The Mexicans, during the parley, had
rowded forward and had assumed such
positions that when they attacked they
, position to sween with a kllllne
tiro the American line standing exposed
in trie open.
May He .i-nr Scene.
Officers at Gen. V'unston's headquar
ters seemed convinced, after studying
Pershing's latest report, that all of the
troops that would bo found now would
be wounded, and that, therefore, the
battered remnant could not have moved
far from tho scene of the tight.
Admission of these facts Increased
JnHr "DPreher lslon as to the fate of the
" m "'i"- "i "re
""",lu'u inai iram n snrw iaa
"n m wiai wiey woum oe
thero when the relief force from the
llc venth fl nally got to them
.i1.1? ""lo broken nnd wounded
band that manifestly was Incapable of
esca.ng or effectively retrtatlng. It was
Mexicans cared to follow up their ail
vantage, the few remaining troopers
would havo been easy prey.
MEXICANS MASSING.
.
ico.
At tht same time a most Important re--lls)sltlon
of the punitive expedition's
forces was begun, The censorship
allow publication of the detail". iDett
tiorr by censor.)
Refugees brought word of the concen
tration of the de factor Government
troopa behind th- -mountains on the
Sonora line and less than sixty miles
west of thn American supply routes. The
garrison of Marel.is, Knmteras and Moc-
the mobilization About rum half nre
cavalry. The Carranzistas also have a
, number of artillery pieces
pellet- trouble again prevented. Urgent
requests for atroplnn. s for fcoutlng pur-
j j-i.r-. .t.oc iiiiiii vivii, I el .-IIIUH. rfV
rnKiue .it-rupiiiiin on uie neni iiero ue-
longrirg to tne .-sew .Mexico militia, was
. not pt rmltted to be t 1 The War I e-
' partment will have the machine in-
spected and if up to sP itlcatior.s it may
i v. . . .
Secret service men brought about the
dlscnargt or several Mexicans employed
rne quartermaster s department here.
The spy scare continues and thn usual
i precautions are taken to prevent a sur-
j prise night attack. The sptclal cavalry
Patrol to-night surrounded the camp at
som- distance heyond the legtilar out
:
RECRUITING IS KEPT
UP AT A BRISK RATE!;,i1Vbfo.nrrM,PSI'onal,,,owhon,ay
' It is Intimated that should ho refuse
i the next step would be a general move
12th InflUltrv lllls 1.220 Xnw,1"0",' u American forces across the
-17r .loin the 22(1
Kliuineei-s.
l:e.U,l..lg.o.,t,n.ed bl.sk ., ...Mlolles
,
' "'rouglrout Die city yestenl Major
I John F. Falrchlld of til Twenty-second
Knglneers will send a company ot forty
rookies to Camp Whitman to-da.
They
have beep drilling since Monday. Major
i Fairclilld said he li is re. raited 17,-. men
f.r ,, ,,. rRllll,.,lt , ow only 400
' ' strength
He is planning to form
Bitterj- P, Second Field Artillery,
wl'ose armory is nt HSRth street and
t... .,,1.1,,, .,, TI,., Itrm.v l.uu l.eeti
ie,-iulted from less than 133, peace
i strength, to 171, or war strength dipt.
I Vi imlII1 (, Hicliaids.in of Battery Pi
, out of eighty men examined ii the
nimoiy or tn lourteentn iniinny ii
Brooklyn yesterday, thirty weie pised,
which Col. Ginrln mid was ,i high per
centage In consideration of the medical
examination being cpcclalv sulci
Tho Twelfth Infantiy leporled lart
night that theie are now 1.220 men In
the leglment. Thn is an increase of 402
since Tuesdas Th..s morning nt S
o'clock the legiinent will in.rreh to the
I'aullst I'nthirs rhurili at Flfty-iiluih
street and Columbus avenue, and hear
- mass. The command will hn reviewed
. ny ouiccis or uie ickuhu- iiiio) hi hi .
M., and havo the rest of the day free
At P. M the leglment will be
viewed and blese(l n Bishop llass
CO Tl r.N.l TIII-s MMMDIt
Thrnnrh .leriilnu e ir In ihe IliKliliin.l.
Onlnrl" ee .svv i "fk nlKlilly, on I M
-aV, Mu....k.i Wharf next Uteriiom.
1 uuigh V.ilt- itullrnad. 44r.
Wilson. Baker and Lansing
Deride on Immediate
Action.
FKAR HAH 31 3IIG1IT
' COME TO PRISONERS
Latin Countries Busy Try
inp; to Avert a
AVar.
r
S. .NOT READY TO
ACCEPT 3EEDrATI0N
31 Hit in of But Few States
in Siiape to Be 3Iu
tered In.
Wasimmiton, June 24. Demand hu
been made on the Carrnnza Govern
ment for tho roleaso of the American
troopers captured by tho Mexicans In
tho light at Carrlzal und carried to
Chihuahua city.
This action was token on the basia
of the formal note, received from th
Mexican Foreign Otllce yesterday ad
vising the American Government of
the wrpture of seventeen men of the
Tenth Cavalry and requesting un ex
planation of the presence, of the Amer
ican force In 'he locality where th
light occurt.-il
An Immediate .ui.su er in expectsd
and the reply Is relied on to determln
tho measure of responsibility Which
lies against the do facto Government
for tho -attack on tho American troops.
Determination to rnaku this demand
wus arrived ut this mornlns at a con
ference which President Wilson had ai
tho White llouso with Secretary Lan
sing und Secretory Baker.
It wns tho original intention to await
the ofllclal upon from Gerr. Pershing
in order to cstubllsli U-yond doubt that
tile Mexicans tired the first shot, but
apprehension that harm might come to
tho prisoners impelled tho 1 "resident,
It Is wild, to net at once, especially In
view of tin.- fact that all preliminary
j reports that iao beerr received from
In Issue uf rrclt.
Utticlals hero fully ex-poct that the
Mexican Government will Insist to the
last that the Americana started the
tiring, but President Wilson has let It
K known that In any lssuo of veracity
he will accept the statements of the
Americans und act accordingly.
necreiary Lansing; himself refused
to-night to comment on the action
taken or to ntllrm or deny that th do
mand had pone, but In other Adminis
tration circles It wns Indicated that
drastic steps might be token If the de
mand wen- refused.
H Is regarded as probable that with
tho receipt of tho former report from
Gen. Pershing itdilltlonul representa
tions will bo sent demanding that Car-
ihii uer inr uie imrpupo tii occupying
tho eiitiro northern part of tho country
where the bandit raids and other ac
tl (ties havo liren going orr,
News reaching tho Wnr Dernrtment
cnncernlng tin- battle nt Parrlznl ' 1
still meagre as to tho fate of tho Amer
ican fnrcp. 1'niir mon stragglori,
Per.sliirig r eportisl to. day. havo reaohd
Ills headiiunrters, bringing the total
number rlia- have leturned up to
eleven.
Kcip' ing ni.iior iletills tho state-
merits of all of them nrrren nnnroxl-
niutely as to the Mexicans having
started the light, but as nl of these sur
vlvots nro hon-ehnlders who left the
scene during tin- light, none was able
to speak ns to tin- fat- of tho others
with (he exception of one, a "packer,"
w tin t epor ted that seeti or eight of his
omt.ldes were tryrtlg to make heart-
...,.,, I.. .....ll.e r...o
Tlt'llef sq lllldrons Report.
Sixteen in-rr of tin- two troops en
gaged In tin- light. Pershing hn- heen
advised, uie being brought in h.v thf
two niiudiuns of rhe llleventh ( avalry
sent out to teenforcc theni. hut
whether tin- sewn or i'igl( nre re
turning bv another loiiie nic neimipd
nniong these ,s!tern is not shown In
tho report.
Clen. lVihlin r M,ili-.s ilmt .iH"cther
there were t-lgllty-finit' tuerlc.itis n
the two troons which took part m the
battle, Including iilllivis und men He
docs not Indicate the size nf the Mox1
can force, although t' lias been vari
ously estimate,! ,u from 1 20 t.. inn
Owing to the fart that the stories of
the strngglris v.uy mi sunn- details and
to the fact thul as hois.- u.ulirs tliey
were pome dlst im-e Lick i-f the firing
line, Gen. Pershing ,'iilvisc.s the De
partment (bat ihe fri.l sior.v of whir'
tool; place w.'l prohibiv not b" hi own
'v-inntl the 'wo -ipi nil mis t .0
I K'an etith 1. , 1 v ii ' n i .. -in
1 survivor-'
nf 1 .M'llllllli: t sttrtie. n'll Oil-..
nnri's the ele i r u
i r i eii r.
i""' ' ' ,, . ,, . , ,
Ihiann'f trrs .
1
