tin
MARKETS
WEATHER
NEW YORK CITY
Average price of cop
per for week ending
June 21, 26.71.
ARIZONA Generally
fair.
Associated Press Special Leased Wire Service.
VOL 19, NO. 25.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, SUNDAY MORNING, JUNE 25, 1916.
1 4-iUqn IBMOJHJ.I
iwow.x RICE FIVE CENTS.
TWO BATTLES 1 How u s and Carranza Forces Face Each Other Along the Mexican Border
BELIEVED
ALREADY
RAGING
J
5
Attack Ordered On American:
Troops Marching On Ojo
Caliente And On San Antonio
NOTHING HEARD
FOR 30 HOURS!
Believed Strong U. S. Col
umns Are Fighting Way
To Rescue Survivors Of
Carrizal Massacre
(Bv Review Leased Wire.)
EL, PASO, June 24. Apprehension
hat battles maj be in progress to
night between American and Mexican
trooos fn at least two places in north
ern Chihuahua gripped the. border to
liiiM. American columns were moving In
the direction of Ran Antonio and Ojo
Caliente while General Jacinto Tre
vm. commanding the Carranza army
o fthe north, has ordered troops at
ndiacent po'nts to attack them if
tiv rfo not retreat Immediately.
While information concerning these
movements reached here today from
rhihiijihna Citv. ' additional advices
Indicated that General Trevino's
"0ts reported the pnnronch of the
Americans vesterdsv and that his or
ders were issued Immediately.
Already May Be At It.
With a lapse of 24 hours, it Is as
sumed generally here that, it is prob
able that the opposing forces may al
reprtv be in contact.
-Little was known here tonight as to
the strength of the American columns
or their mission bnt it was assumed
that ore of thou1 might be a detacV
Ter.t sent by General Pershing to at
'empt to rescue the survivors of the
troops of the T"nth cavalry engaged
nr. Carrizal. t
Pursuing Bandits.
It is believed here that the Ameri
can command advancing in the direc
tion of San Antonio which is 50 miles
southeast of Nomiquipa, may be In
punuit of bandits.
A suggestion that the Carrizal fight
was but an Incident of what was
planned lo be a general attack upon
the American expeditionary command
was received here late today from
General Pershing's headquarters. The
reports pointed out that only the pal
pable strength of the Americans de
terred the Mexicans.
Juarez Will Fioht.
The fact that General Gonzales and
Ms staff are still in ..Juarez and the
town garrison Is being maintained. to!
gether with reports of Mexican troop
movements in the outlying districts
fnd apparently increased precautions
on the American siae, are cum ,
confirmatory of the theory that the:
Mexicans will not evacuate Juarez I
without-a fight should hostilities j
break out.
Manv Volunteers.
Two 'rains left Juarez, one of five
cars, filled with provisions and three j
passenger coaches bound for Casssl
Grandes.'- The other consisted of 37,
cars and'earried volunteers and their;
bneage to Chihuahua City, to go into
militrv training. A train bearing live i
ARIZONA, r I NEW MEXICO. t r,.2. '
VruON iDEMiNfiO: . V- V N
i - j ill. uifvnw rr a ii B -A . . . -y i i ,i
VI. fei!fauftAoo vhfffv Jiff- - k
wfefelf MP,C0 I
, KEY . feffKvC - V
PPQBLE1U.S NAVALSUCKADE1 , " , f L-
I
MISSOURI PACIFIC
FINANCES U. S. GUARDS
ST. LOlIS. June 24. B. P.
Bush, receiver for the .Missou
ri Pacific Iron Mountain Sys
tem, today announced (hat all
employes who enlist for militia
service will be tarried on the
rolls of the company at full
pay during the service.
War Circulars
BROWNSVILLE. June 24.
Circulars were distributed in
Matamoras opposite here, to
day, declaring that the latest
crossing into Mexico of Aiueri-
can troops near here has been
'construed as a declaration of
war against Mexico on the
part of the United States. The
circulars are signed by Gener
al K. P. Nafarrete, commander
of the Mexican forces In the
state of Tamaulipas. The cir
culars dated June 17, declare a
state of war exists between
, the two countries.
!
!
linos
RELEASE OF
CAPTURED
TROOPS
A POINTS OF U.S. TROOP CONCENTRATIONS.!
mm CHIEF CONCENTRATION POINTS
'OF MEXICAN FORCES.
GEN. PERSHING'S COLUMN
IN CHIHUAHUA..
PROBABLE LINES OF US.
INVASION.
PROBABLE U.S.NAVAL BLOCKADE
LITTLE
DIED
FORCE
GAME
III FATAL
Attack Also Must Be Repu
' diated By Carranza. Fail-
ure To Meet Both Means
SENATE DELAYS
HAY RESOLUTION
j U. S. War Department Takes
For
Are
Machine Guns Made
Allies. Mediators
Frowned On
I
(By Review Leased Wire)
WASHINGTON. June 24. A per
emptory demand that General Carran-
T 1 pamidiiita W ...... I. .
! troops at Carrizal and immediately
I release all captured American s'jI-
:ner was understood tonisht t b
Went Down Faithful To Tra-the. n''x, teP ,n tb Mexican frUis
ditions Of Service; Broke government. " r
Lines Of Mexicans And
Captured Trenches
TOOK MACHINE GUNS
BEFORE DEATH CAME
The above map shows approxl-' Namiquipa. Colon ia Dublun is the. reeds and have also provided them-' condition exists southeast frcm El
n.ately the present disposition of main expedition base and Namiquipa j selves with dugouts. ' ' Paso along the Southern Pacific rail-
American and Mexican troops along! the advance base and headquarters of Camps of engineers liave been do-.ro:d line as far as Pel itio, Texan,
the boundary in the state of Chihua-j General Pershing. ing much work on the roads, grades, there being American 'troops, gulars
hua. I General Pershing's forces are In- tridues, etc. The road is reported in , and federalized Texas national guard-
General Pershing's troops are trenched at all of the stations and , excellent condition. They; have es-.smen posted at nearly every railroad
strung out along a 300-mile line otjhavewell protected water supplies. At ! tablished stations all along the route ; station and guarding every steel
communications running south from j Colonia Dublan the camp is on the from Columbus to Namiquipa. Near : structure bridge along the route. ' '
Columbus N. M., the border base of 'east bank of the Casas Grandes river each station is a cleared space-for; Specific information as to the dls
the expedition. Bodies of American j and the addition to extensive en-: aeroplane landings. . . j position of Trevino's force Is dUn-
troops hold Bocagrande, Colonia Diaz. trenchments with communicating' At every American border tow u ' cult to obtain, but generally the Ms
Ascension, Corral itos, Colonia Dublan. : trenches .the troops have erected per-; from Nogales, Ariz., to El Paso are ' lean troops are stationed as follows:
Gtleana, El Valle, Las Cruces andjmanent abodes from logs and icker , patrols of American troops. The same; (Continued on page two;
MEXICAN TROOPSjTROOPS CAN'T BE SOUTH AMERICAN HOME GUARDS TG
COUCEIITRATIIIG SPARED FOR : STATES OFFER i BE DOUBLED
OH BORDER . BISBEE: MEDIATION IN NUMBER
Failure to comply with either de
mand undoubtedly wtould result in tbe
gravest consequences foretold ia
Secretary Lansing's recent note to
the de facto government.
Formulation of a communication
awaited a final report from General
i Pershing on the Carriial incident.
Thirty Still Unaccounted For 1em1in, its receipt, the war depart
Believed Died Fighting. lU.;
liet squadrons Keactl Ihe prtl nd prepare for any eventual-
c ,l
3Cene I " May Never Know Facts.
run Information from American
; sources as tj what happened at Car
rizal was still lacking and tbe long
delay In finding additional survivor
was taken as an ominous n. No
AiuerV-i otflcer may !' e nrri- ed.
Trevine Reported War-like.
OtEcials were plainly concerned
with news dispatches fi'jm Chihuahua
Klvine that fnora Iu..t.t. rn.wiHA
jhis arms and shoulder Captain Boyd. the Mexican commander, bad threat.
(the commander, remained in the sad envd to Uai.k AmeriCin ,.olumns r
die. leading his negro troopers until ported advanrins fronl th(, 6el(1
they had captured the Mexican ma- toward San Antonio and OJo t.
Chine gun trench when he Ml mortal- if ,hy ,,id tfjt tlDmediatey
retreat.
i nounueu im it uuuei ... i..e r, r. , Another battle at this time
I This was the gist of the first detailed ! pm-lpitate general hostilities.
, v. uuujors inai me i arrunza xoxer-
ti P. a n rat iVnttutip tmlav hv rnrnnrflt i . .
. . - - 1-. uiuer iiLin-a uiHri an nuiian rmA
Green of Troop C. who was at i apt from manv qtlarten,. rriv,t, .dvlow
ain Boyd s side until be fell. , from Mi(.0 city a,..j cwntinf tl
Both Sides Flanked. indil.ate tbat ,;,,nm, Carranza still
The Americans were flanked on noped to find a way to he
both sides by the Carrancistas. dur- 8torm ni8 ,.v ha arousl,
Ing a conference between General , '
Felix Gomez, the Mexicaa leader, andi . . "0'ation Frowned on.
Captain Boyd. In hnt was con- .V ' mediation reached tb
cealed Mexican machine gun trench t?te! department from any source,
from which a stream of leaden death ! Administration od.cials hold that toey
..nviu.rti.ri1v on nnured into the w ineuutir. n is gen-
American ranks.
(By Review Leased Wire.?
FIELD -HEADQUARTERS. June 24.
via wireless to Columbus, N. M.
Trapped and fjgliin against ht-avy '
atluK tlie trwp fit the Tenrh C.tvalry.
engaged at Carrizal on ' Wednesday,
charged twice directly Into the jaws ,
of the ambush which the Mexicans
had laid for them.' With bullets in .
might
I Every Northern State Teem
ing With De Factos. . U. S.
Practically Places Embargo
On Everything
(By Review Leased Wire.) (
EL PASO, Tex., June 24. Reports '
General Davis Says Border Ecuador And Argentine Min-1 Sheriff Wheeler And City
Cities Must To Large Ex-; isters In Washington Most i Marshall Allison Jointly
Active To Avert Mexican
Hostilities
tent Take Care Of Them-:
selves If War Comes J
(By Review Leased Wire.) i
nnrfil lO Inn. A V..tr..nI.a on.'
(By Review Leased Wire.)
NEW YORK, June 24. Gonzale S.
Head Organization In En
tire District. Guns Wanted
American refugees from Parral Is ex-of heavy concentration of Carrancisto Peals for troops to protect settle-1 Cordova, minister from Ecuador to
The further recruiting of guards for
the defense of the Warren District,
in case of trouble with Mexii'j, the
pected to arrive at Juarez tonight.
HOGALES EXPECTS ,
BATTLE AS SONORA
TROOPS DRAW HEAR
' border were received here today by
states have been received at border General T. F. Davis, commanding the
ments and ranches along the Arizona the United States, announced tonight securing of approximately
points while recruiting is said to be
progressing rapidly. The same re
ports indicate tbat a number of for
mer "outlaw leaders" and their com
mands are joining General Trevino's
army of the north as a result of the
Mexican war department's offer of
complete amnesty to persons who (
have opposed the government, pro-.
cided they will assist in combating ,
Arizona military district. Delega
tions of city officials of Douglas and
Bisbee and representatives of public
utilities called in person and tele
grams were received from Gov. Geo.
W. P. Hunt and from residents of
that he would depart for Washington , rounds of ammunition and also of a
early tomorrow to con- proximately three hundred rifles f
150.00"
P-
for
Ufa r.w
fer with other South American diplo- the use )f the guards, with a petition
mats in an effort to bring about me- from the Mayor, the heads of the two
diation between the United States and commercial organizations, the sheriff
Mexico. ,and Captain Greenway asking for the
' disposition of t'jme of the incoming
Dr. Cordova said ho had received militia to this station of the Ameri
instructlons from Senor R. H. Eliz-.can border were a lew of the things
towns near the international line and
many letters brought a like request, aide, the foreign minister of Ecuador, accomplished at th meeting ye ted-
However, the appeals were of no avail directing him to confer with the other day alternoon at the Cfcpper Queen
as General Davis stated he could not diplomats and stating he had sent Hotel.'
! comply with them in view of the com- j messages to the foreign ministers of That 'the organization of home
i inriu.r , i7 a present under his command. He add-'them to direct their representatives
i i ruin r.t f M mi f Him .unlit iu uunru n.l ,1,-, 1. 1 .1 1.x V. 1 .1 . .. 1
cu mat, Diiuuiu ue uiuriru lu u
1. - ...V.1: tl . .. n .. nf flnnait tor. .... ... ...
Iiie (luuiiuuiuu iimaj wm.ou. tne une, tnere hardly would be e-
icia's advice to his nationals to return noueh of his men left hrhinrf to nrnn-
(By Review Leased Wire.) j to Mexico, Inasmuch as Americans ery guard Douglas.
NOGALFS Ariz June 24 A Car-1 continue to leave Mexican territory.) Approximately 4000 United States
rancista concentration camp has been 1 On the other hand, during the day a ' soldiers are stationed here.
.ohiihoH At I,n. four miles south i 'arge number of Mexicans crossed In- Mayor I. C. E. Adams of Bisbee and
Trainloads Of Mexicans Un
loaded 4 Miles From Arizo-Uhe American Invasion
na Border. Military Law
Probable
ed that, should he be ordered to cross j at Washington to use their good of-
llces In an enort to avert a conflict.
NEW YORK. June 24. Romulo S.
N'aon, Argentine ambassador to the direct and
an ol,v , general to send a detachment to that
kith Me district especially to guard the water
of here according to apparently- reli- j to the United States asserting they j. j. Bowen. president of the Warren
able reports tonight. Supporting this:0"'d feel more safe here in the eve-t District Commercial Club, urged the
, in omntv imnn min OI DOSiiiiiieB. rferi sninm
W-.....V t J nrr,i. . Icials today were co-operating w
nauit-u niui ni,iiiro. v........ n, , - . ,
apparently form Magdalena. pullej in military authorities with ho ding up
to the vards o nthe Mexican side took Telpht shipments Into Mexico and
on coal and water and later departed I pin American rolling stock on
, ,, this side of the frontier. While no
outli. K . . v
Col. William H. Sage, B"":""" "
I receivea .it was saia every enori wh
being made to prevent any large con
signments crossing the border.
United States left for Washington
late today accompanied by his secretary.
00 men in Bisbee and about as many
in the 'other sections of the District.
was more than perfected yesterday ia
certain. The organization of the en
tire District was placed under the
joint leadership of City
erally regarded as unlikely that Presi
dent Wilson would agree to any pro
posal that meant tying the hands of
General Funston in his efforts to pro-
Charged to Death.
Corporal Green said that CapUIn
Vtrivjl olfhmirh wminrlpft in the Arm
fi..ri L,nI,ler bv the first fire, im- teot ,ne border Irom bandits. A media-
ruedlatelv gave "the order to charge tlon P,a" ratine, on a military status
and the detachment rode at top ,,,n ,ne borr Vjwns would pre
speed. In a hail of bullets directly at vent P"uit of raiders or any ex
the trench, capturing it Just as the Petitions beyond the border to break
American leader fell. The Mexicans UP b"nd,t organizations bere they
Mir..ti ,n ,.v.r 1.. a nirhv A.lnhe became danxerous. Under these cir-
Mean while.
commandant, and citizens on tae
American side conferred over the de
tails of the semi-martial law which is
expected to be proclaimed here Monday-While
the Mexican town apparently
was quiet, two bullets passed over the
railway station, the customs bouse
and the immigration offices on the
(Continued on Page 5)
WASHINGTON. June 24. Minister
Ignacio Calderon of Bolivia, speaking
supply line from Naco to Bisbee. for several South American republics
Mayor WJ. M. Adamson and busl- today, asked Eliseo Arredondo. Mexl
ness men of Douglas made a series of ran ambassador designate, whether
calls upon General Davis during the the Carranza government would be
day, asking for guards at the water willing to accept mediation In the
and electric plants. The general re- crisis between the United States and
plied that he did not consider it a Mexico.
DESTROYER TO MEXICO
(By Review Leased Wire.)
KEY WEST. Fla.. June 24.-
destroyer Reid sailed today for Mexi
can waters.
good policy to divide his troops here
into two detachments ' at various
I points nearby. . " " '
I One American mining roan who ar
rived from Cunipas, Sonora, 81 miles
below here, stated that while riding
The on a train from Nacozari o Fronteras
yesterday he overheard
(Continued on Pa
Marshal Allison and Sheriff Harry C.
Wheeler.
Both men were asked to recruit
their men up to double the preseut
number and each ventured the 'opin
ion that this could be effected, pro
vided rifles and ammunition were
obtained to permit of such action. In
this connection Captain John C. Green
way pi'jposed that an Investigation be
made of the rifle? and ammunition
which were stored at Fort Huarhuca
about a year ago. Acting on this
Tl,. MovL.an onKanoaJn ..IJ tin1
wouid communicate the inquiry to uggestioo the meetlnS asked Captaia
General Carranza but he. was not em- Oeenwajr- to Investigate and report
powered to make a reply at this time. " tc'rT PO1"'- '
Mr. Calderon failed to see 'Secretary n the meantime th local storee
Lansing today on the same mission eecurlng a large amount of am
but announced tonight that he exoect- munition and a number of rifle.
a Mexican ed to direct the same inquiry to the ' ' rines m vt oiu i umw
e three) ( (Continued on Page Three) (Continued on Page Three.)
shack.
Then Adair Fell.
Lieut. Henry Adair assumed com
mand and ordered a second charge
which di'jve through the shack scat
tering the Mexican command. Green
said he did not see
after this charce and believes that he
lost his life in it
Morey, Wounded, Lost.
Meanwhile. Captain Lewis S. Morey,
commanding Troop Kt. which also
was partly sun'junded . during the
parlev, occupied another adobe house
with his men, from which he engaged
second detachment of the Mexicans.
While it is assumed here that CapUIn
Morey was wounded in the fipht.
neither C-roral Green nor any of
the other survivors reaching here
knew anything of the outcome of his
part of the battle.
It is believed here, however, that
he may have collected the shattered
remnants of the American command
and is bringing them srjwly through
heartbroken obstacles to General
Pershing's lines.. The survivors who
cumstances. It was intimated on higa
authority that efforts toward preserv
ation of peace concerning the initia
tlo l..f vhicb the minister of Salvador
was autiiorized today to confer with
his diplomatic colleagues, could go uo
Lieut. Adair further than an attempt to persuade
wenrrai arranza rj cnange his at
titude toward the determined t pro
tect its territory.
Ambassador Naon of Argentiue. wbo
was a leader in the movement to re
cognize the Carranza de fact govern
ment during the Pan-American con
ferences. Is understood to hate ad
vised his government that the circum
stances did not tend themselves to
a mediation proposal at this time.
Senate Oelaya Hay Bill.
, The efi'jrt to speed up mobilization
further through the Hay resolution
, adopted yesterday in the House met
with delay in the Senate. The mili
tary committee reported out the
measure amended but still containing
the draft and consolidation sections
which are regarded as of vital im
portance. The Senate postponed ar
arrlved here said that Carrancistas unl" -'
circled far around Carrizal after the Tle war department awaits lui
engagement and overtook and can-'Patiently the passase of the measurw
tured a number of soldiers wli had ehelly because of its con.-'jlidatioa
been holding horses back bevond Provision. It furnishes machiuery o
sicht of the battle ground when the a,,r nich it could gather up and
light began. . 8n" to the front promptly all guards
, men who qualify for federal service.
S.AN ANTONIQ. June 24 The force: Takes War Order Guns,
of tbe Tenth 1". S. Cavalry under Cap- Another step toward preparedness
tain Charles T- Boyd, succeeded in for any emergency became known
breaking through the, lines of the Mex i today. Arrangements are being per
Ican .force' under General rli3t Gomez jfected lor diverting large shipments
at Carrizal. sncordui to a message; of' mat bine guns and ammunition
tonight fronv Goneral Porbhing to manufactured for rertain of the at
General Kuneton. but whether any of; lied powers to the American ti??us.
thenj were able t make their escape j They are already .needed to equip
still ia unknown. I fully the guard regiments.
(Coatlaued on page three) I (Continued on Pace Three)
