THE ARIZONA RE PUBLICAN
"AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL ,
PHjjENIX, ARIZONA, SUNDAY MORNING, JUNE 25, 1916
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAB
30 PACES
30 PAGES
VOL. XXVII, NO. 38
CAffiMA ESt ffiPtllAl CAffflZAl OR FIGMT
The De Facto Troops Are Concentrating Near The U. S. Border
mwrnm
ONLJFEflES
from mm
I CROSSING IS CONSTRUED
AS WAR DECLARATION
I
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
N't ICS ALE'S, Ariz., June 24 A Car
rancista concentration camp has been
established at Lomas, four miles
south of here, according to apparently
reliable reports tonight. Supporting
this theory a long, empty troop train,
hauled by four engines ,and coming
apparently from Magdalena, pulled
Into the yards on the Mexican side,
took on coal and water and later de
parted south.
Meanwhile, O. W. P. Hunt, gov
ernor of Arizona, Col. William H.
Sage, commandant, and citizens on
the American side conferred over the
details of the semi-martial law which
Is expected to be proclaimed here
Monday.
While the Mexican town apparently
was quiet, two bullets passed over the
railway station, the customs house
and the immigration offices on the
American side. No report bein
heard, It was assumed a silencer was
being used.
Military guard details along the
street which forms the international
line, and strategic points about the
town were doubled tonight, the civil
guard in some instances being with-.
drawn.
Charles E. Wiswall, general man
ager of the Cananea Cattle company,
with Jack Martin, his American
chauffeur, were held prisoners in the
quartet in Nogales, Sonora, for several
hours today. The two men, who were
intercepted in an attempt to make a
trip to Cananea by motor, were re
leased upon instructions from Mex
ican Consul Delgado here, but were
warned not to attempt to re-enter
Mexico. They were halted, they said
by Mexican soldier a few miles south
of the border and brought to the
Nogales jail.
Frederick Simpich, American con
sul In the Mexican town, acting under
instructions from Washington, today-
asked General I. Elias Calles, mili
tary governor of Sonora, to invest!
gate reports that Norton Hand, an
American miner, said to have been
captured by Carrancistas south of
Naco, had been condemned to be shot
and to insist that no action be taken
without a fair trial. He also request
ed that the body of A. R. Dickson,
killed in the same fight in which
Hand was captured, be turned over
to F. O. Bostwick, of Douglas, Ariz.
Reports were received here tonight
that Governor Cantu, of Lower Cali
fornia, has assured the 132 Americans,
60 Russians and members of the
Chinese colony at Ensenada. that they
would not be harmed nor their busi
nesses interrupted if they remained in
the state.
At the conference, here tonight it
was decided to request President
Wilson Monday to declare martial
law, without suspension of constitu
tional guarantees in certain Arizona
counties to be specified by Governor
Hunt, who intimated they probably
would be Yuma, Maricopa, Pinal. Gila.
Graham, Greenlee, Cochise, Santa
Cruz and Pima.
"The purpose of this procedure is
to have the backing of the military
authorities when necessary to control
the sale of ammunition and in the
BROWNSVILLE, June 24. Cir-
culars. were distributed in Mata-
moros opposite here today, declar-
j Ing that the latest crossing into
Mexico of American troops near
here, has been construed as a dec-
laration of war against Mexico on
j the part of the United Stales. The
circulars are signed by General E.
P. Nafarrate, commander of the i
Mexican forces in the state of Ta-
malpais. The circulars duted June
17 ilirl:ire a state of war exists be- I
tween the two countries. The cir-
cular declares that all Americans
found in Mexico with arms will oe i
executed but Americans pursuing
peaceful occupations south of the
Rio Grande and who are not
jirmed will be orotected. I
D -U
FIRST REPORT
TO PERSUING
FR01 CARRIZAL
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
FIELD HEADQUARTERS, June 24
(By wireless to Columbus, N. M ). '
Trapped and fighting against heavy
odds, the troops of the Tenth Cavalry
engaged at Carrizal on Wednesday
charged twice directly into the jaws of
the ambush which the Mexicans had
laid for them. With bullets in his arm
and shoulder, Captain Charles T. Boyd,
the commander, remained in the sad
dle, leading his net-'ro troopers until
they had captured the concealed Mexi
can machine gun trench, when he fell
mortally wounded with a bullet in the
eye. This was the gist of the first
detailed account of the engagement
from American sources which was
brought to General Pershing today by
Corporal Green of Troop C, who was at
Captain Boyd's side until he fell.
The Americans were flanked on both
sides by the Carrancistas, during a con
ference between General Felix Gomez,
the Mexican leader, and Captain Boyd.
In front was a concealed Mexican ma
chine gun trench from which a stream
of lead was poured into the American
ranks.
Corporal Green said that Captain
Boyd, although wounded in the arm
and shoulder by the first fire, immedi
ately gave the order to charge and the
detachment rode at top speed, in a hail
of bullets, directly at the trench, charg
ing it just as the American leader fell.
The Mexicans retreated to cover in a
nearby adobe shack. Lieutenant Hen
ry Adair assumed command and or
dered a second charge, which drove
(Continued on Page Eight)
D
I HUACHUCA MEXICANS
I HAVE BEEN DISARMED I
ARIZONA I' NEVMMEXICO k2V pALt
! coujmbus -V ' , x" J A &
$ J i,7nFrvK'As VM TV
of , - !Jnei u 1 Lpb 0) wsrl I A
1 VW C W 4T" vK
t -KEY , MAR V
kk. POINTS OF U.S.TR00P OONCENTftATlONS. "T-- o3Qv
"a CHIEF CONCENTRATION POINTS SftJlACAMtw '9' B
OF MEXICAN FORCES. yl, vW0 I - &W
GEN. PERSHIQS COLUMN , V oS m rtW
,N CHIHUAHUA. H
PROBABLE LINES OF U-S. Qj ' SJS&Tt
j INVASION. Zp- C KfylvH 'Ar
PROBABLE U.S.NAVALBUXKAPEj ' Voclff?3 -T
DEiini
FOR RELEASE OF
ALL PRISONERS
HOW U. S. AND CARRANZA FORCES FACE EACH OTHER ALONG T HE MEXICAN BORDER
BRAVE TENTH TROOPERS ABLE TO BREAK
THROUGH GOMEZ LINES AT CARRIZAL
F
EAR TWO BATTLES IN PRQGRE
5S
(Continued on Page Five)
TOMBSTONE, June 24 Approx- j
imately 150 Mexican laborers, em- t
ployes on the .military reservation
at Fort Huachuca and in the vicin- j
ity were disarmed today by Lieu-
j tenant E. L. Grisell, in command, j
according to a message received
i here from the fort. Forty Ameri- j
j cans living near the fort were given
j arms and ammunition, it was said,
to aid the military in the event of j
j raids. Less than 100 soldiers are j
I now at Fort Huachuca, I
p
IN
ER
N
KIBBEYG. 0. P. CANDIDATE
FOR U. S. SENATORSHIP
A rumer which has been current for
several days that Judge Joseph H.
Kibbey would be a candidate for the
republican nomination for United
States senator, gathered additional
force yesterday. When Judge Kibbey
was seen he confirmed the report but
said that he was not yet ready to
make u formal announcement of his
candidacy but would do so in due
time. He desired it made clear, how
ever, that in deciding to become a
candidate for the nomination, he had
not yielded to the importunities of
political friends but had resolved upon
this course after a mature considera
tion of the matter. 1
F.ver since the admission of Ari
zona to statehood the name of Judge
K!iev has been more frequently as
sociated with a nomination for
tenatorship than that of any other
republican. That was because per
haps ft a consciousness by republi
cans of his ability and perhaps in
part because he had been so long the
recognized leader of his party in Ari
zona before statehood, his previous
Ions service on the supreme bench,
and his oceurancy of the governor's
chair.
Two years ago tin effort was made
by republicans of all shades to per
suade him to accept the nomination
for the senatorshlp but he declined.
Early this year republicans not only
in Maricopa cotiney but in practically
every other county in the state looked
to him as the nominee in the present
campaign. Hut it was not until yes
terday that an expression-Avas se
cured from him.
V; ' $'f :
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
EL PASO, Tex., June 24. Appre
hension that battles may be in prog
ress tonight between American and
Mexican troops in at least two places
in northern Chihuahua, grtfe.ed the
border tonight. ' j
American columns were moving in
the direction of San Antonio and Ojo
Calienfe, while General Jacinto Tre
vlno, commanding the Carranza army
of the north has ordered troops at
adjacent points to attack them if they
do not retreat immediately.
While information concerning these
movements reached here today from
Chihuahua City, additional advices in
dicated that General Trevino scouts
reported the approach of the Ameri
cans yesterday and that his orders
were issued Immediately.
With a lapse of twenty-four hours,
it is assumed generally here that ft
is probable that the opposing forces
mav already be in contact.
Little was known here tonight as to
the strength of the American columns
or their mission but it was assumed
that one of them might be a detach
ment sent bv General Pershing to
American side are cited as confirma
tory of this theory.
A train of eighteen cars, carrying
ir,0 non-combatants nvjstly women
and children and some old men, ar
rived today under the infantry guard
of 22 soldiers from Chihuahua City.
Two trains left Juarez. One of five
cars filled with provisions and three
pa!;enger coaches, was bound for
Casus Grandes. The other consisted
of 37 cars and carried volunteers and
their baggage to Chihuahua City, to
go into military training. A train
bearing five American refugees from
Parral is expected to arrive in Juarez
tonight.
Continued rumors of the presence
of Villa in this region have reached
the United States authorities, but
have not been generally credited.-
Bodies of the American soldiers,
killed in the engagement at Carrizal
still lie unburled on the battlefield,
according to French and Mexican
refugees who arrived in Juarez today
aboard the Chihuahua City train.
They asserted that the Mexlfan dead
were buried immediately after the
fight, but that the American bodies
had been left lying exposed to the
attempt to rescue the survivors of the p!pmflnts -
troops of the Tenth Cavalry engage.! Thg arrivn,H alao a.M tnat the Car.
at Carrizal. ran0j8(a losses were much heavier
it .is ueiieveci neie mm, mc n than the Mexican official
can command aavancin? in me uirec- i
tion of San-Antonio which is .fifty
miles southeast of Namiquipa, may be
In pursuit of bandits.
A suggestion that the Carrizal fight
was hut an incident of what was
planned to be a general attack upon
reports,
which placed the casualties at about
14, indicated. Carrancista leaders
frankly admit, they said, that the low
estimate was made public for the
political purpose of impressing upon
the masses of the Mexican people
that the first clas'.i between American
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN ANTONIO, Tex., June 24. The
force of the Tenth United States cav
alry, under Captain Charles T. Boyd,
succeeded in breaking through the
lines of the Mexican force under Gen
eral Felix Gomez at Carrizal accord
ing to a message tonight from Gener
al Pershins to General Funston, but
whether any of them were able to
make their escape still is unknown.
Captain Boyd's men of Troop C took
the ditch in which the front line of
Mexican troops wTere entrenched and
charged through into the town of Car
rizal. Troop L under Captain Lewis
Morey, charged with Troop C but
were outflanked and forced to take
refuge in an adobe house. They at
least had a chance to defend them
selves from cover but their ultimate
fate is unknown as is that of rem
nants of Captain Boyd's troop.
This news came to General Persh
ing by courier from Major John M.
Jenkins, commanding a squadron of
the relief expeditions sent out from
Colonia Dublan. Major Jenkins also
announced that he had found five
members of Troop C of the Tenth
cavalry and one member of Troop K
at the San Luis ranch. They also
were horse holders as were the other
stragglers who have reported. They
did not see the finish of the fight
but their stories according to Major
Jenkin's courier, confirmed reports
that the attack had been opened by
the Mexican troops without prwvoca
tion.
General Pershing said in his report
that he did not belieye the 3S men
still unaccounted for had not ieen
captured. This was taken to mean
that he feared Captain Moriss men
had no.t been able to hold out against
the overwhelming odds against them
from the shelter of the house in
which they had taken refuge and had
been killed.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, June 24. A
peremptory demand that General
Carranza repudiate the attack on
American troops at Carrizal and
immediately release all captured
American soldiers is understood
tonight to be the next step in the
Mexican crisis now contemplatsd
by the Washington government.
Failure to comply with either de
mend undoubtedly would result in
the gravest consequences, foretold
in Secretary Lansing's recent not
to the ciefacto government.
Formulation of a communication
awaited a f;nal report from Gen
eral Pershing on the Carrizal in
cident. Pending its receipt, the
war Department pressed urgently
today it efforts to reinforce
strongly the border patrol and pre
pare for any eventuality.
Full information from American
sources as to what happened at Car
rizal was still lacking and the Ion?
delay in finding additional survivors
was taken as an ominous sign. No
American may have survived.
Officials were plainly concerned with
news dispatches from Chihuahua say
ing that General Jacinto Trevino, the
Mexican commander, had threatened
to attack American columns reported
advancing from the field base toward
San Antonio and Ojo Caliente if they
did not immediately retreat. Another
battle at this time might precipitate
general hostilities.
P.umors that the Carranza govern
ment was seeking mediation through
other Latin-American nations came
from many quarters. Private advices
from Mexico City also continued, to in
dicate that General Carranza still
hoped to find a way to evade the
storm his policy has aroused.
No offers of mediation reached the
state department from any source. Ad
ministration officials hold that they
have nothing to mediate. It is general
ly regarded as unlikely that President
Wilson would agree to any proposal
that meant tying the hands of General
Funston in his efforts to protect the
border from bandits. A mediation plan
resting on a military status quo dur
ing negotiations would prevent pur
suit of raiders or any necessary oper
ations beyond the border to break up
bandit organizations before they be
came dnnp-erous.
Under these circumstances, it was
intimated on hieh authorits" that ef
forts toward preservation of peace
concerning the initiation of which the
minister of Salvador was authorized
today to confer with his diplomatic
No mention of the Mexican cavalry : colleagues, could go no further than
charge reported bv the stragglers last J an attempt to persuade General Car-
night, was made in the Pershing re- I ranza to change his attitude toward
port, but vhe fact that the Americans the determination of the United States
were able to advance and break the to protoct its people and territory.
Mexican lines after the first attack is Ambassador Naon of Argentine, who
believed to give some indication that was a leader in the movement to rec
the charge was checked. ognize the Carranza defacto goverr.-
According to stories told by the five . ment during the pan-American confer
nien found at San Luis ranch after , ences. is understood to have advised
the Mexicans had opened fire with I his government last night that the cir
several machine guns. Captain Boyd cumstances did not lend themselves to
(Continued on Page Eight)
(Continued on Page Five)
FUNSTON URGES ACTION
tne . American eApeu.nu.m. i.,.., ......... anfl Mpxican troops llad resuUed in
was reeeiven nere uue iuu? n.m
Judge Joseph H. Kibbey
General Pershing's headquarters. The
reports pointed out that only the
palpable strength of the Americans
deterred the Carrancistas.
News from Juarez has caused well
informed Americans here to give up
"a great Mexican victory."
, It was pointed out that 23 Mexi
cans were buried near the battlefield
after the engagement, as many more
bodies including that of Felix Gomez,
the slain general, were taken to Chi
tne oenei inai JUure..a loaded with wounded, several of whom
a nrervR, womu ..e e....u.uru haye . 8jnce ,n the Chihuanua
a tlgnt; Tnat uenerai uimzaies aim hospital.
nimii..uu Carrancista guards donned the
to-vn garrison is being maintained, !. m. ifm 0u , IU.
reports or Mexican iroop movements
in the outlying districts and apparent-
, uniforms taken from the
seventeen negroe cavalry men, who
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
,1
General Bell at El Paso reported to
SAN ANTONIO, June 24. General , general Funston that he had been told
Frederick Funston requested of the L a ,)rorninent Mexican who arrived
war department today to demand the)
release of Americans taken prisoner """ v,.
in the fight at Carrizal and now held I latter had seen the prisoners at Chi-
in the prison at Chihuahua City. huanua ana naa counted twelve negroes
General Pershing indicated that he ana tnree wnite men. uenerai Ben ex-
hoped Captain Lewis Morey, wounded.
might be foumi in such condition as
to be able to give him complete details
of the Carrizal affair when the relief
expedition of the Eleventh cavalry re
turns to the main column. 1
pressed the hope that the white men
might prove to be some of 'the officers
with Captain Boyd's expedition. It was
pointed out however, that they prob
ably were civilian packers attached to
the command.
Many Appeals For Aid
Along The Arizona Bordei
Republican A. !'. Leased Wire
DOUGLAS, June 24.-J-Numerous ap
peals for troops to protect settlements
and ranches along the Arizona border
were received here today by General
T. F. Davis, commanding the Arizona
military district.
Delegations of city officials of Doug-
It is still hoped however, that they , ias ad Hisbee and representatives of
public utilities called in person, tele
still may be holding out and Major
Jenkin's command is hastening toward
Carrizal to their relief.
Major Robert L. Howze with the
second squadron of the relief expedi
tion is a day behind Jenkins and
pressing hard to overtake and sup
port him. General Pershing, accord
ing to his report has sent provisions
and supplies for the wounded to meet
Majors Jenkins and Howze on their
return mrtrch townrd Colonia Dublan.
General Pershing reported that the
grams were received from Gov. George
W. I. Hunt of Arizona, and from resi
dents of towns near the international
border and many letters brought a like
request.
However, the appeals were of no
avail as General Davis stated he could
not comply with them in view of the
comparatively small number of soldiers
at present under his command. He
added that, should he be ordered to
cross the line, there hardly would be
j ly increased precautions on the
(Continued on Page Eight)
troops under Captain. Boyd and Cap- enough of his men left behind to prop
tain Morey showed the greatest cour-lerly guard Douglas.
3ge and exhibited the most - sterling 1 Approximately 4,000 United States
fighting qualities. soldiers are stationed here.
Mayor Adamson of Bisbee and J. J.
Bowen, president of the Warren Dis
trict Commercial club, urged the gen
eral to send a detachment to that dis
trict especially to guard the water sup
ply line from Naco to Bisbee.
Mayor W. M. Adamson and business
men of Douglas made a series of calls
upon General Davis during the day
asking for guards at the water and
electric light plants. The general re
plied that he did not consider it a good
policy to divide his troops here into
detachments at various points nearby.
One American mining man who ar
rived from Cumpas, Sonora, 81 miles
below here, stated that wrhile riding on
a train from Nacozari to Fronteras
yesterday he overheard a Mexican
colonel tell two other officers that 5,000
Mexican volunteers were concentrated
at Cananea. The officer was said to
have added that men in the district
south of Nacozari were being sent to
Fronteras and those living further west
were being mobilized at Hermosillo,
the state capital.
