jHc
"X. iAj ""Nt '.
WEATHER FORECAST:
Cloudy Tonight
(Full Report on Page Two.)
Sunday Evening
Edition
U
A
NUMBER 8942.
WASHINGTON, SUNDAY EVENING, JUNE 25, 1910.
PHICE ONE CENT.
WILSON MAY TAKE CRISIS TO CAPITOL
BORDER HEARS RUMOR OF NEW FIGHT
GERMANS HOLD STATEMENT TO
FLEURY. BUT AT
FEARFUL COST
Kaiser Pays ,,000 Lives for
Every Houjrt'Town Near
Verdun.
a
I
50,000 RESERVES IN ATTACK!
Desperate Battle Raging From
House to House Prussians
Win Thlaumont.
LONDON, June 25. After
bringing into action troops me?ant
for the re-enforcement of Von
Hindenburg, and reforming the
Prussian guard, the Germans have
succeeded in getting within three
miles of Verdun after the most
terrific onslaughts of the war.
Pushing fqrward 50,000 men to
the front line, the crown prince
advanced'" against a wall of flame
and machine gun Are, and in spite
of a heroic French resistance,
captured Th'iaumont redoubt, tak
ing 2,673 prisoners and the villags
of Fleury.
Although the French estimate
that every hour of the attack cost
the Kaiser 1,000 men, General
Petain has not been able thus far
to dislodge the enemy.
DESPERATE BATTLE RAGES.
Like the desperate struggle In the
streets of Vaux, this battle raged from
house to house In Fleury. For bloodl
nes it equaspel the hand-to-hand con
flict In Fort Douaumont. where for two
days French and Bavarians fought until
all were killed.
More than 100,000 men, or five divi
sions, are estimated by the French to
have been hurled Into this assault east
of the Meuse. All the reserves have
been gathered up from the other sectord
about Verdun, to widen the breach, the
Germans maintaining a heavy artillery
Are over the whole front to prevent
French counter-attacks.
The French admit the German success,
but they still hold the strategic advan
tage In the Fleury sector.
The Germans have captured the Thlau
mont work after three weeks of titanic
hut th French advanced line still
holds good, possessing the greater part
of Hills 320 and 3Z1.
Rkss Reach Carpathians.
-! th. eiiitom front the onrunhlnsr
armies of General Eruslloff have reached
the foot of the Carpathians with all the
crown land of Bukowlna In their con
trol.
The Russian general la now pushing
toward Kolomea, a railroad center, the
possession of which would threaten the
Austro-Oerman Gallclan line.
Having captured Kuty, on the Czere
mosh, a tributary of the Pruth forming
the boundary between the Bukowlna
and Gallcla, the Russian line advancing
on Kolomea forms a further menace to
the Touton armies.
Further south, the left wing of the
Ruslsan army In the Bukowlna has
swung further westward to Klmpolung,
where Vienna announces stubborn fight
ing. Say They Saw Villa
On American Side
Railroad Men Assert Bandit Was
Near El Paso With Other
Mexicans.
EI. TAHO, Tux., Juno Sl.-Puncho
Villa, well and sound. Is recruiting men
on the American fide of the boundary,
and has been seen within fifteen miles
of El Paso, according to reputable
American railroad men. As their train
was passing CanutUlo. Tex., yesterday,
a Mexiram. believed to be Villa, passed
In an automobile, with two companions.
. Thn train wan stunned, but the men had
disappeared. Thov reported what they
hod Mon to the military authorities,
and members of the provost squad and
deputy sheriffs went to Inveetltnte. but
tno tnree Mexican cnum not ue iounn.
The men are confident It was Villa,
for they had often seon him In Ju.irox
nnd El I'luin. Thev any they had heard
many reports rrr'louly that Vllllstas
ucio M'ciiiltli.'. m In lh district
whore they kxw the bardlt leader.
BE MADE
CRISIS TODAY
Lansing Says Announcement
Relative to Situation Will Se
Given Out This Afternoon.
SILENT AS TO CONTENTS
President and Secretaries of
State and War Have Num
ber of Conferences.
Secretary of State Lansing said
today that a formal statement on
the Mexican situation will be
issued by the State Department
this afternoon.
Secretary Lansing made this
statement after conferences with
President Wilson and Secretary of
War Baker this morning, at which
the policy of this Government to
ward Mexico was decided upon." -
President Wilson and Secretary
Lansing were in conference for
more than half an hour at the
White House. j
Leaving the White House, Secre-.
iary causing went 10 me war ue
partment, where he was closeted
with secretary Baker for another
half hour.
SILENT ON STATEMENT.
Secretary Lansing would give no Indi
cation of the contents of the forthcom
ing statement.
He would not say whether It Is to be
a general announcement of the policy of
the United State Government with ref
erence to the critical condition now ex
isting, or whether It merely would relate
to the effort of the United States to
obtain the release of the American pris
oners nt Chihuahua City.
Following the conference between the
heads of the State and War Department
there were reports that Secretary Baker
had sent new orders to Central Funston
regarding the Mexican campaign.
Neither Secretary Lansing nor Secretary
Baker would discuss this.
Talk of Going to Congress.
Neither would tho White House or
State Department discuss the report
that the President Is considering going
before Congress to put up to that body
the entire Mexican situation.
Secretary Lansing on leaving the
White House maintained absolute
silence.
AcVed If a note demanding that Car
ranza repudiate the attach on American
troops at Carrlzal and demanding re
lease of the American cavalrymen held
(Continued on Second Pago.)
New York Guardto
Start Wednesday
Crowd Gathers at Armory When
News Is Received; Men
Make Good Showing.
NEW YORK, June 25.-Accordlng to
latest advices, the Seventy-first egl
ment, of the Now ork State National
Uuard, will leave for the border Wea-
nsday morning.
Tho rescinding of the order for the
regiment to go to Camp Whitman
caused a crowd of several thousand to
gather this morning in front of tne ar
mory on Thlrty-tlfth street.
The numbers Increased, In spite of the
heavy rain, and ttnally police reserves
were called to keep the sidewalks clear.
In addition a guard of militiamen
was posted, who refused to allow any
one to enter unprovided with creden
tials. Officials of the regiment expect to go
via Galveston, and drills are Delng car
ried on in the armory. All expected
to spend today at Camp Whitman, and
a number of supply wagons wnich had
been sent out ahead had to be recall
ed by telephone. They reached the ar
mory late last night.
J. William Lee Dead
In Baltimore Hospital
BALTIMORE, Md June 25. J. Wil
liam Lee, an undertaker of Washing
ton, died at Johns Hopkins Hospital
here this morning after a short Ill
ness. He Is survived by a widow and
four children. Arrangements are be
ing made to take his body to his home
tonight.
Jfl ACTIVE IN PEACE NEGOTIATIONS
fill ggmmm-m-- IHBTSmV
BsiBiBiBBBBBMBBK.i KBBJMrf .vl JiBBHS IBBBBsSfBiV ;.BBKBHBBBA
bbbbkibbbHIB yP vtsbbiHH BBBBBBr4B-Bre9BlBBiBM'
bbbbbbbsbiBk i'JB8Bft &''A '.HHHB bHbbbbAI - &MBms"fffiM-' ''&i
LbbbbsbLMPbbbbiH LLiLiLiKrfliLHmLMPv rtim
HklklklklkW; bbbW' BBBBBBBH'BBBVBBBBWYEiBBwP ,bb.
BLBBBBbHbs JBBLH LHJ !
LffHKTaMOiiLLiflLiLtl BBBBBBBBBHBBBBBBBMBBBBLiHi :
HHIHi' ! r i.i.i.HtliiiiiiiiiiiiiiVsiiiViHliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiH
BBBBBBsiflr'V " BBBBBBB liHiVIH
fljHRppsLi v H " ELISEO ARREDONDO,
WtlflMi siiiiiiBiiH i Ambassador Deaignato From Mexico
Above AMBASSADOR NAON, of
Below IGNACIO CALDERON, Mi
District Guardsmen
To Start for Border
Within a Few Days
Departure of some of the organiza
tions in tho District mllltla rrom the
mobilization camp near 'ort Myer to
the Mexican border probably will be
gin within the next several days.
Before many hours have elapsed Gen
eral Wood, commanding the Department
of the East, U. 8. A., will receive no
tification from Capt. Horace Hobbs
that one or more organizations In
the local citizen-soldiery are "reason
ably ready."
General Wood Is expected Immedi
ately to communicate this fact to
General Funston, and the latter to
designate the points on the border
where he wants the organizations to
report.
The Signal Corps of the mllltla, with
full war strength, probably will be in
the Federal service before nightfall.
Capt. Oliver Terry, commanding the
Signal Corps, was Inrorraed by Captain
Hobbs shortly alter noon that aa soon
as the men wore ready 10 be mustered
the ceremony would begin.
Captain Terry replied, "We are ready
now.1' He Immediately returned to tho
Slsnal CorDH Quarters to Ket his men.
equipment, and muster cards ready for
Inspection and muster by captain
Hobbs.
Others Practically Ready.
Several other organizations In the
mllltla are practically ready for muster.
As soon as their commanders say the
word, Captain Hobbs will muster them
Into the Federal service.
The organizations In this class are the
field hosnltal corns. Troon A. Batteries
A and B, of the Field Artillery, First
Beparate Battalion or mrantry, colored,
machine gun company and supply com
pany. It Is not Improbablo that all of these
organizations will bo In the Federal
service before tho end of this week.
In the chse of tho signal corps. It will
bo a matter of selecting the eighty-five
best men from among a total enlisted
strength of HO.
Captain Terry believes his eighty-five
picked men will conotltute a signal corpa
t
JIIIEB BY LAI AMERICA
Argentina.
nister From Bolivia,
-nv-TV
company which wll give a splendid ac
count of Itself in discharging the Im
portant duties devolving upon this
branch of the service.
Col. W. O. Owens, medical Inspector
of the mobilization camp, and First
Lieutenants Richard L. Cooke and A.
Bond Hooo, medical reserve corps. In
formed Captain Hobbs today they were
ready to proceed with tho physical ex
aminations incident to the muster.
All of the muster rolls necessary for
the organizations In the mllltla have
been received, alt the clerical work In
connection with the muster, bo far aa
(Continued on Second Page.)
New York Looking
For U-Boat Today
Big Town Stirred by Report From
Madrid, Submarine Is En Route
With Letter for Wilson.
NEW YORK. J uae 25.-The city toda
awaited with great Interest a German
submarine reported due to arrive here
with a letter from the Kaiser to Presi
dent Wilson.
The information was given In a report
sent to Lloyd's In London, by Its Mad
rid correspondent.
This report, the correspondent stated,
Is unconfirmed in Madrid, but has been
circulated persistently since tne U-34
arrived there with a message from the
Kaiser to King Alfonso, It is denied In
Madrid that this was a peace appeal.
"Spanish papers," the dispatch says,
"publish a telegram from CadU saying
an Important personage states that an
other boat Is on Us way to New ifork
bearing an autograph letter from tne
Kaiser to President Wilson, and that it
Is expected here on Sunday."
The dispatch then describes the arrival
of the IU-36 at Cartagena harbor and
the events during tu short stay therw.
Diplomats of Six Countries In
formally Propose Arbitration
to Carranza.
Six I.utln-American nations already
have made Informal suggestions of me
diation between tho United States and
Mexico, both to Ambassador Designate
Arrcdondo here and to Minister of For
eign Relations Agullar In Mexico, It was
learned today.
All of these suggestions urge Car
ranza to try to take advantago of
article 21 of the Treaty of Guadalupe,
of 1848, providing that, in case of
threatened hostilities between Mexico
and the United States, the government
"which deems Itself aggrieved" may
propose "arbitration of commission
ers appointed on eacn side."
Carranza Favors Proposal.
Persons in Washington closely In
touch with tho Carranza Kovernment
today expressed the belief that Car
ranza looked with favor on sur'i a
proposal, und is even now consider
inir how It may be effected without
recminc tc conceue too much to the
denioudi of thlr countrv.
Ir this connection Latln-Amcrlcnn
diplomats who read closely tho Car
ranza notr to this Government of May
2J 'nnd Secrctnry Lansing's reply,
pointed to thi' nineteenth paragraph of
the Carranza note which made mention
of tho treaty of 184S.
This was the parugraph which stated
that If the troops of tho United btates
remained In Mexico thero would be no
other courso but a"rcBort (also trans
ated nppcal) to arms," but qualified
this with the statement that the do
facto government felt It to be Its duty
to first exhaust every means of main
taining peace "and in accordanco
therewith attention is called to article
21 of the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo."
In his reply to this note, it was
pointed out. Secretary Lansing quoted
only as far as the portion relating to a
"resort to arms," and since that the
position of this Government has been
that the Mexican situation is not a
question for mediation, but that the
American troops are going Into Mexico
solely for the purpose of protecUng
American citizens.
Six Nations Active.
The nations taking the most active
part In trying to effect mediation are
Spain, Argentina, Chile, Ecuador, Bo
livia, and Salvador.
Minister Ignaula Cnlderon, of Bo
livia, has called upon Arredondo to
ask. whether mediation would bo ac
ceptable, and Ambassador Naon. of
Aiucntlna, has boon in telegraphic
communication with embassy repre
sentatives here about the situation.
lie deems It fo important that he has
ulred to Washington that he will ho
hero early this weelc a.nd. he Is ex
pected fjoorly.
Mlnlnar Zaldlvar, tf Salvador, and
Minister Cordova, of Ecuador, jiIho
have been active in cimforennna.
To meet the position of the United
states, iaiin merican diplomats al
ready have discussed, it was learned
today, tho possibility of a co-oporatlon
between their nations nnd thn United
Btates In the establishment of a neutral
zono, to do patrouoii ny an international
police force. The status of our relations
to Mexico, In that event, Is the subject
of much speculation,
Lat-lnAmerlcan diplomats are expect
ed to tako their first active steps toward
mediation tomorrow by calls upon Secre
tary Lansing to ascertain his attitude
toward their efforts.
DECISIVE CLASH WITH
GEN. TREVINO'S FORCE
IS EXPECTED HOURLY
News of Rescue Column Sent Out After
Ambushed Cavalrymen and Troops Near
San Antonio, MexM Anxiously Awaited;
Carranzistas Lost Fifty Dead is Report.
That President Wilson will go before Congress
tomorrow and make a statement which will be, in ef
fect, an ultimatum to Mexico was the report which
spread rapidly this afternoon in Administration and
Congressional circles.
It was the belief that if the President does make !,
his visit ' o Congress his expected statement will tc of
such a i laracter as to leave Carranza absolutely noth
ing else to do but back down or fight.
EL PASO, June 25. Rumors are persistent that Gen
eral Trevino's Carranza force has again attacked General
Pershing's force near San Antonio, Mexico, but General
Bell, the American commander here, had heard nothing of
it officially up to noon. The Mexican consul had no con
firmation either.
Everyone on the border, army men included, is con
vinced from the movements of the Mexican forces that the
threat to renew the fight against the Americans is or shortly
will be carried out.
Momentarily there is expected news of another clash'
a clash that is likely to be much more serious than the
one at Carrizal.
BORDER STRAINS EARS FOR NEWS.
Consequently the border strained its ears today for
news from the south, especially from the rescue column
sent out by General Pershing after the American cavalry
men ambushed at Carrizal, also for news from Pershing's
troops reported yesterday as moving south near San An
tonio, Chihuahua.
Gen. Jacinto Trevino, the Carranza commander, as
serted yesterday that he would attack them immediately
they came within range of the rifles of his troops. It is also
believed that fighting has been taking place between the
rescue columns sent toward Carrizal and Mexicans in that
vicinity, who are in large numbers now since the abandon
ment of Juarez by its garrison and the movement of the
force to the vicinity of Carrizal and Villa Ahumada.
The Carranzistas involved in the fight with the Ameri
cans at Carrizal lost more than fifty dead and wounded, ac
cording to unprejudiced reports brought to El Paso this
morning by Mexican refugees who arrived here on a train
from Chihuahua City.
Twenty-three dead Mexicans were buried near Carrizal
immediately after the fight; several others were taken to
Chihuahua, among them being the Mexican general, Felix
Gomez, and two stock cars were loaded with wounded.
Some of these died on the train, and others have died in the
.Chihuahua hospital.
A DIFFERENT VERSION.
These informants have a version regarding the Mexi
can losses which differ materially from the official version
given out at the commandancia at Juarez. The official
Mexican version places the Mexican losses at about four
teen. The arrivals from Chihuahua disclosed that the fight
ing was done at extremely close, range, some of it being
hand-to-hand, and that the troopers fought like demons
until they ran out of ammunition, and were entirely sur
rounded by the Carranzistas.
This report of close range fighting strengthens the story
that the Mexican losses were heavier than the official Mexi
can report Indicated.
Army men declare that it Is Inconceivable that the
Mexicans lost no more than fourteen if two troops of United
