DAILY EDITION
1
OI VI1 No. 49. U RANTS PASS, JOSBPHIIfE OOUWTY, OREGON, SUNDAY, XOVKMHh'R 5, Iia . . WHOLE XCMBEK IMS.
No Other Town in tho World the Size of Grants Pass Has a Paper With Full Leased Win; Telegraph Service. ' (
, , , ,' ' , !
7
mm WEmMWm NOT SftTBBDAY
100 W ijSf ffi, Wilt CflEBlff NEW ;the WASHINGTON
COLLISION wii INDUSTRY IR VALLEvTSe AND0REG0N
m mmt aW MM A -
AT UA S.'ttJSJ'S Special Trains WiU Bring People From North and LSSrd PI AV TIF
Single Survivor Escapes Death
When Vessels Come To
gether in the Irish Sea,
Both Ships Being Destroyed
I guidon , Nov, 4. One hundred
Imtmmi in believed lo have perish
ed In din sinking of small British
learner Couueiiiuia mid Itetrlcver
-after it collision In tho Irliib cu lust,
night.
Only uu survivor I reported thus
Jur, A mull named I ! hiimiiImt
of the Heirlevet's crew, miraculously
oscuped (truth. He brought buck t ht
lory of the greatest sen dlsusler '
since l ln sinking of the l.imliniilu
ml prevented the disappearance of
the lo kIiIijh wllli their passengers!
ud crew from becoming an un-
told sea mystery.
Ouly fruKiiieutury report of the jchans pass, him liven captured by-the
disaster had reached Umdon this af-1 Koumanlnns." It waa offlrlnlly an
tiunion Kiuiii these accounts, It'nnunced today, "Southwest of Pre
PMara thiol tt.e Coniiemura, of the 'deal. Rniimuiila. we recaptured a
l.ondoii Northwestern Itallway line. Kotimunluti position wfilch hud been
left tireenore, Ireland, about dnskllaken November 2. hut waa lout the
U'tctjji evening foi Hoi head, Kim-1 folluwlni, nluht, taking 2 ' 0 prison
1 ii ml. and collided with the Inwurd ;ei."
IiiiuuiI Kli Hilicr ItHtrlevcr n tew llillea'
4iff the IiImIi count.
Tlie Coiuichiui.i wHa cNirMHK M
piniioiiiii rN rtu fur ub' know n here,
mine of them whh American.
U'IivIiik (irwnore, the ferry Hleam
er r.in Into the tip of a violent Imrrl-
cane IMnnlni; iilonn throiiKh the
lnrlneKH it ltd ftoiin, with even ki Cill
er dinicnlty, the mnaller Itotllever.
lubouud for her home port of N'ewry, i
in CarllliKford oiikIi, iraxhed Into
the t'omic mura. Whether the. lie
trlever curried iiaNNeniier 1 not
known. Apparently few of the Con-1
lietnaru'x piikkciikcI bad retired i
whon the coIIIhIoh occurred.
CrewH of both BteiinierK iippinenily
tried to launch the IioiiIh. Scupiirt 1
towns near the scene of the disaster
reported the sea tosslim so violently j
last nlKbt that It was doiibtlnl If u j
Hlimle boat was KiiMen over by either j
slilp. It appeurs cerl a I n that any
boat put over either was crushed I
HKiilnst III" steamer's side, or cap-,
nleil and was sucked down In the
hollltiK waters.
The Hist hoilles were washed up I
iilonn the County Down count, Just I
north of Cm llnnrotd IoiikIi. ' At the
olllces of tho London ft Northwestern
Ttillwuy It Is feared thnl, exceptltm i
Ttiiyle, every man aboard both ves-'
aela perished
24 LIVES LOST IN
lllrnilnRliain, Ala., Nov, 4. Nine
white men and Ki nem'oes lost their
' lives tnduy In a gas explosion In the
llessln mine of the Slnss-Hhellleld
Iron company, twenty miles weal of
here, The ciumo of the explosion
Dover tuny bo known, Klvo men, hall'
n tulle In the mine, lieiirlun tho c
lilimlniis; 'covered 'their bends wllli
their Hlilrls nuil not out s'lifoly.
Two bodies, minus Iteuds, have
been t'.ilten nut nnd icsculii;! pnrllvit
lire nTler the others.
Tills la I lie second explosion In two
weeks In tills district, eight men lie
In killed In the Mary 1 mines of the
Roden Coal company October 11.
Ilerlln. vlu Hayvllla. Nov, 4.
Standing beside the open grave of
Captain Hoelrke, Germany's greatest
air hero, Colonel Lieutenant Thom
sn, chief of the German air fleet'
marii a solemn vow to attempt to re
peal the exploit of Hoelcke, who wan
klllKd after downing 40 enemy air
men. "The funeral of the noted fly
er waa like that or a prince," the
Uikal Anselger declared.
An eye-witness to the death of
Boelcke Mid today:
"Moelrke ascended at A p. m. Octo
ber 110, He liiul a very successful
combat. Imrlng thU action another
German machine touched him. Part
of hl plane wait torn off. ttoelcke
descended Immediately In a narrow
spiral line, lint at a height of 20
yard hla machine anddenly fell. Ilia
body had not been touched by pro
jectiles. After having defeated forty
adversaries an accident ended hla life.
He died Hnaniulhed."
IIOI M AM INK I'AITI'RK '
TIIK HttKillT OK IHMM'A
Merlin, via Hayvllle, Nov. 4.- "The
i height of Itoaca. southeast of Alts-
(.KKMAN ttH'NTKH-A'ITAt'K
MASU THK HOMMK KIUIXT
I.iiiiiIoii, Nov. t. (ieriiuin detach
nieiitu ciiunler-iittackeil north of the
Somnie venterdiiv In an attack cant of
,;,,,,,.,., ,m.nl jilK reported
today. One huliilrcil liiTiiiun dead
were counted ntid 30 pilsouers and
four machine mm were taken.
HE'S CURIOUS TO
uSOUTOFWAfc,
WOODROW. TELU ME,
Hr WHICH NATION WAS T, ;r, ;
" ; "Nj .That wanted to get,,;Vv;'
Al&l l yiT I INTO WA f .II.,
Special Trains Will Bring People From North and Sooth,
and the Great Institution ia Scnth Grants Pass Will Be
Inspected by the People Who Have Supplied It With
Its Grist This Season asd Who Will Grow Next Crop
Saturday, November 11, will be Suj;ar Heet Growers'
day in Grants Puhh. It will be the day when the jH'ople of
the district celebrate the coining of the preat industry that
means a revolution in fanning conditions and that will
bring a new era of industrial development. The' celebra
tion will not be of the red fire sort, however, but the effort
and energy of the comiuunitv will be put forward to bring
ing the iH'et growers, and those who ought to be beet
growers, and other interested citizens of southern Oregon
here that they may inspect the mammoth factory and see
Oregon ln'cts made into the best sugar manufactured any
where in the I nited States.
The general committee, comjMised of representatives of
the county court, the city council and the Commercial club,
met at the club rooms Friday evening and made the pre
liminary arrangements for the day. Manager Nibley stated
that the factory was now running in most excellent shaiie.
and that next. Saturday would be the best time for the in
sjM'ction of the institution.
To bring t he people of the valley here on that day
it is exM'cted that a sjtecial train will he chartered and an
excursion run from the upjter part of the valley, while
excursion arrangements will be made for the bringing of
the people from the other directions. The arranging of the
special train or of excursions is in the hands of a com
mittee headed by 11. H. Miller, aided by Preston R. Delano
and d. M. Isliam. Mr. Miller is in Portland today and will
make definite arrangements while there. It is promised
that the train be run free for all beet groweis from Ash
land to Sutherlin. The families of the beet growers will
be invited, and for the day they will be the guests of the
city of Grants Pass.
Following the arrival of the trains with the excursion-
( Continued on Pane 4.)
11 M. .4M
i I ii' t tilt lieim.l .
KINO W
-ChlCMO Dally Tribune.
El Paao, Nov. 4. That Villa has
captured the Important town of Par
ral waa confirmed today by a report
received by United State department
officials and transmitted to Washing
ton. In the same report it is stated
that General Luis Herrera, de facto
commander In charge of the Parral
garrison, withdrew 20 miles to the
northwest, to San Francisco del Oro,
as Villa's army marched upon the
ral was confirmed today- by a report llfll lll
city. The exact date of Villa's occu
pation of Parral la not known.
The fate of 10 Americans who were
known to have been in Parral at the
time Villa's army took possession is
not known and much fear Is express
ed for their safety. Representatives
of American mining companies who
are acquainted with the surroundings
at Parral believe the Americans made
their escape to the mountains when
the de facto garrison evacuated.
New York. Nov. 4. Charles K.
Hughes finishes today the most stren
uous rata tor a presidency that any
man ever run. . He finishes it In a
series of meetings over downtown
New York during the day and with
a monster mass meeting in Madison
Square garden tonight. '
The republican , nominee added
about 30 additional miles by automo
bile during the day to the 30000
miles he has traveled on rail and by
motor since he started Augirst 5.
There was not any doubt today
about Hughes' own belief In his elec
tion. He breathed a spirit of com
plete confidence. Tuesday night he
will remain quietly at the Astor hotel,
without any special wires being run
Into his rooms to give him the details
of the vote casting which he and his
friends feel certain will sweep him
Into the presidency.
Today Hugaes (ilanned to carry bis
doctrines of Americanism, of false
prosperity and of efficient America
to the Now York business men. He
was scheduled for five addresses. All
will be short.
There were about 600 who heard
Hughes today at his first stop in a
big show room at 26th street and
Broadway. The governor was hur
ried Into an elevator, down Into the
basement, and then up again to the
roof.
The Young Republican club, uuder
whose auspices the meeting was held,
Kiive the nominee an enthusiastic wel
come. "We are on the home stretch," said
Hughes In opening, "and we are run
ning well,"
"The young men of the country will
not be deceived 'by elusive statements
about the prosperity of the country,"
he said. "There will be no lasting
pence unless this Is maintained. There
Is no lasting security unless Ameri
can rights are fearlessly maintained
throughout the world. Rights cease
to 'be rights If they are not enforced.
It is not that we should have brag
gart assertions, not that we should
go through the world boastful or
truculent, but It Is that wherever our
Hug Hies the cllir.cns of the United
Suites should know it Is the emblem
of protection for hi in whether on land
or sen."
(JKUM.YNS Itn'lHING IN
lUltKCTION OF .111 I.
lVtrugrud, Nov. i. I'nder Husslnn
pressure, the Austro-Germans con
tinue to retire northward In the direc
tion of Jlul, It was ollblally an
nounced today. v
v mmm mm mm
Focthall Teams of Two State
Unversirjes Play a Greit
Gaze, Neither Beizg Ak!e '
to Pot Pigskin (her Gd
Kincaid Field, Eugene, Nor. 4.
Washington and Oregon played a
scoreless tie here this afternoon on
such a slippery field that open at
tacks were useless, and both elevens '
got down to old fashioned line smaah
Ing. - 4
Noble and Nainsworth did moat of
the gaining for Washington, while i
Monteith, Parsons and the Hunting- i
ton brothers took turns pounding the '
enemy tor Oregon; . Morrison for
Washington and Beckett for Oregon ;
were all over the Held. '
. n the last few minutes of play ;
Washington got the ball on Oregon"! ,
20-yard mark, but lost It on down. .
Corvallls, Nov. 4.--The Oregon
Aggies this morning Waded through, "
a sea of mud and walloped Whitman j
college, 23 to 0. The game was play- ,
ed early to give spectators time to
go to Eugene and see the Washington- 'i
Oregon affair this afternoon. ..
Neither team was able to do any
thing In the slush until the third
quarter, when the Aggies piled np
all of their scores.
The first, second and fourth quar
ters were blanks.
AUSTRIA LOSES '
25,000 IN 4 DAYS
Home, Nov. 4. Twenty-five thous
and Austrian soldiers were killed,
wounded or captured in the first four
days of General Cadorna's new sweep
on Trieste.
No offensive on the Austro-Itallan
i front Bince the beginning of the war
Minn Knnn mbmItaJ 1... ,.K 4lk4
Mire ... 1. 1 n . u VI J Buwi IICIVV URUI-
I Ing. Itattllng In the Carso mountain ,
I lands, Italians and Anstrlans hare
I met In hand-to-hand struggles that
I have continued at some placet all
! night.
An especially furious combat pre
ceded the capture of the Veliki hill
by the Italians. The summit was :
crowned 1y heavy Austrian artillery
that drew a semt-clrcle of fire against
the base of Veliki and prevented Ca
dorna's men from advancing In
frontal attacks.
Several small Italian detachments
under cover of darkness reached the
slopes of Veliki outside this Are tone.
Without waiting for reinforcements
they scaled the sides, surprised the
enemy and, after a brief encounter
with bayonets and daggers, captured
the Austrian battery. The viotore
signalled news of their success to
their waiting comrades below and
then turned the captured guns on the
Austrian trenches to the east.
In the fighting southeast of GorlU
Italian Infantry charged over a wide
area, which had been flooded by the
Vertalbllla yesterday, At some places
they advanced to the attack In water
wnlst deep, holding their rifles hlsn
above their heads.
Tt Is estimated here that 300,000
Anstrlans are defending the Isonio
lines now tinder attack by Cndorna.
Several Austrian battalions hare been
practically wiped, est
V
