f -j.
THE WEATHER
Fair to-day and to-morro
IT SHINES FOP ALL
perature; variable
Highest temperature yeiterd
Detailed weatiher, malt and mai
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 219.
NEW YORK, THURSDAY, APRIL 6, 1916. Copyright, 1916, by the Sun Printing and PubUthinp Anociation.
PRICE TWO CENTS, f
VILLA FLEEING
SOUTH; GAINS
ON U.S. FORCE
Chieftain Heading; for Tor-
rcon to Get Aid, Is '
Belief.
CAKKAXZA LEADERS
EXPECT TO GET HIM
Gen. Gutierrez Sends Sev
eral Forces to Cut Off
His Retreat.
OKX. PERSHING RINGS
GUERRERO DISTRICT
Failure to Get Use of Rail
roads Costs U. S. $621,
000 So Far.
Villa Is heading south fronj Chi
kuahua toward Torreon aa fast aa re
lit s of horses can tako him and has a
lood lead on the American forces, un
official report from Mexico say.
Carranza officials, on the other hand,
m.v that Gen. Gutierrez believes that
h can catch Villa and has sent several
todies of troops out from Chihuahua
city to prevent Villa's escape south.
A wireless from Gen. Pershing's base
at San Geronlmo said that the Amer
ican troops had dratfn a cordon around
the territory from here to below Guer
rero to trap Villistas said to be hiding
in the mountains.
V - . L - I . 1. - I
.xevcr Dciore tin mc nrru ox ine use
! the Mexican railroads for supplies
and ehlpment of troops been more ap
parent. Villa could have been headed off if
trcspa could have been sent south by
rail to head htm off.
There ure not enough American
troops available to hold the line of
fommunlcation to pointa south where
trie forces hare pushed.
Th War Department lias spent
tUi.O&a la tm auuplteiL to the troops
which could have been saved If the
railroadit were used.
Secretary Landing ha again asked
Carranza to hurry negotiations on the
protocol, but nothing has been done to
demand use of roads for troops for fear
f offending the First Chief.
HOPE TO CAPTURE
VILLA AND HIS BAND
farranta Leaders Send Three
Forces South.
El Paso. April G. Gen. Gavlia, com
Bunding the Carranza force in Juares,
received Information to-day which led
him to assert to-nlsht 'that he believed
tlx foices of the Mexican tie facto Gov
ernment aie In a fair way to capture
M!la
Villa, accoidlng to report, was head
Ini toward Torreon and had a Ions
lead over United States trrups.
A telegram from Gen. Luis Gutierrez,
entmsnder of the State of Chihuahua,
Informed Gen. Gavlra that Roman Tar
arto, me of Villa's most trusted lieuten
anti. and Kllseo Hernandez were killed
In ths fighting either with the American
tro'H'a In San Geronlmo or the Mexican
troops t Guerrero.
Mexican ranchers In the district sur
rounding Chihuahua city are reported In
trivate advices from Chihuahua to-night
I" be Joining the Villa bandita In con
a.derable numbers. Villa agents are said
I1) have been recruiting among the small
ranches, and several hundred already
bate left their homes to Join the bandit
lands operating within thirty or forty
miles of Chihuahua cltv. the renort navs.
Tne telegram from Gen. Gutierrez to
Gen. Cm-Ira states that a Carranza cap
tain and two soldiers who had been
captured by Villa and his men at Quer-
irro escaped and Slave arrived at Bant
Vabel and gave an account of the Guer
ro engagement. The men were from
tr.e Morelos brigade In command of Col
tilai,
ir.-y nay that Villa with 200 men
tnt toward the IJanos of San Juan
ttautlsta, The men under the Villa Gen
l Pablo I-opez (who Is reported
"am me now under Candelarlo Cer
'an!c and number 200, Julio Acosta
erond of Villa's chiefs, Ix with a band
'wenty men In tha mountains of
Jluerrero, while Murtin Lopez Is with
men In the vicinity of Bachlnlvi.
(aria flouts One Band.
0n lienjamln Garza communicates
J1 Hen. (iutterrez from Laja de Aba
1'fo t nt a detachment of scouts from
tbe Constitutionalist forces engaged a
""l o' Villistas recently In that lo
eallty and routed the band, capturing
"elr rlfler. The message aaya that by
to-day c,en. Garza expected to be upon
b enemy, now at Gleneca.
Oen. Cavazoa wired from Cienegato
'bat he had attacked the enex.y In oen
l 15'nlto Juarez and that he had
Wiled ten and wounded many others.
H also reported having captured a
number of rifles and some ammunition.
n. Cavazos's loss Is one wounded man.
Cn. Cavazoa reports that ii continue
o pursue the enemy and asks that
troops be rushed to Satevo. Santa Ger
trudes and Nlacl, that Villa may not
tape to the south.
Cen. Lula Herrera, who was reported
Isuna, north of Chihuahua city.
Miierday, is announced to-day as being
Duitlllos, near by, guarding against
y possible retreat of Villa to tha eaat.
"n:l is made thai any change In com
ands la contemplated In Juares.
Reports from Torreon to-day were
Jal th peace commissioners appointed
line by the Carranslataa to treat with
t'anuto Reyes, who had asked for
wrni of surrender, failed In their mis
n. Tha situation waa muddled by tha
Jl ef on ot the bands oatsratlng under
res In burning a bridge and wrecking
27 HELD IN DIAZ PLOT.
Taree Frearaaaen ana Mateo" Men
leo City Men Arrested.
Special Cablt Deepalck lo Tns 8t v.
Maxico Citt, April B. Government
secret service agents arrested twenty
seven persons residing In San Angel
and Mexico elty this morning, Including
Iule LaBadle. local wholesale drug
gist: Arlstide Martel and J. Tron, man
agers of the largest department stores
in Mexico city, all Frenchmen, and the
following well known Mexicans: Gon
xalo Herrerlas. rx.ehlr erfitne nt mv.
eral Mexico city dallies: Qen. Palaclos
.tjorrno, ex-secretary to Gonzales Uarsa,
President during the convention regime ;
Dr. Ismael Hancher, Col. Francisco Mar
lines da Arredondo, prefect of San An
sel ; Emlllo aoniates del Compo and
lose Peon del Valle, member of a dis
tinguished Yucatan family.
The authorltlea say the prisoner are
accused of Fellclsta conspiracy and say
the order of arrest came from First
Chief Carranza' offices at Queretaro,
whither all were taken Immediately,
heavily guarded.
KING ABOUND GUERRERO.
Uea. Feraata Trylas to Drive
Vllllaiaa orta,
Bancho Sam Gironiuo, With Oxn.
PgRSIUNa, VIA ItADIO TO COLUMBUS, N.
M., April 6. American scouts returning
here after leading our column through
Bachlnlba to the south reDort the rindlnr
of fifty fresh graves In tlitf latter town.
Tnese are believed to contain the
bodies of Villistas killed at Guerrero ami
carried away by their comrades or who
dliH aubsequently from wounda admin
istered by Col. Dodd's men. The bodies
were Interred secretly at night by friends
of the bandits In Bachlnlba. This num
ber, added to Col. Dodd's official Hit of
forty-six killed un the' field at Guerrero,
brings the Villlsta fatalities of the fight
up to Mvtnty-slx.
Gen. Pershing Is now directing a new
encompasaing movement to the south and
ast of here, by which the" mountains
will be combed for the purpose of driv
ing the outlawa to the north. American
forces are now to the south or the area
in which Villa's men arv supposed to be
hiding.
LABORERS STRIKE ON
N. Y. CENTRAL HERE
Between 130 nnrl 200 Go Out
and Jlore Threaten to
Follow Soon.
Between ISO and 100 car cleaners, bag.
gage handlers and other unskilled labor
ers In the employ of the New Tork Cen
tral Railroad quit work in the Mott
Haven yards and the Grand Central Ter
minal yesterday. The discharge of six
teen men who had been active In the
organisation of a union was given as the
cause;
At the company's offices Inst night
the existence ot a strike was denied. It
was said that the vacancies had been
filled Immediately and that the situation
was well In hand. Meanwhile, however,
more than 1.D00 union men and sym
Datlilzers were attending a meeting in
Protection Hall, Courtlandt avenue and
East 152d street, at which plans were
discussed for the picketing of the com
pany's property.
Members of the new union predicted
last night that the walkout would spread
within tne next lew uays unm 11 in
cluded the unskilled laborers at all the
stations as far north as Tuckahoe. They
said. too. that the Pullman porters on
the New Tork Central Lines are threat
ening a sympathy strike.
A force of detectives, estimated at
150, was scattered through the com
psny's yards yesterday intent, appar
ently, upon keeping all suspicious char
arlers on the move. One hundred and
fifty others were housed ot the Bronx
branch of the T. M. C. A., and the ar
rival during the day of three truck
loads of provisions at the railroad de
tective' lieailquurters. Park avenue nnd
Kast 16Ut street, gave rise to a sus
picion that an extended campaign wns
anticipated. Policemen In uniform were
stationed on all the bridge spanning
the cut through which the lines ex
tend along Park avenue to prevent pos
sible attempts to stone passing trains.
According to the employees' version,
the baggage men and their associate
formed In Januaiy a union known as the
I'cderated Railroad Workers and made
a demand for shorter working hours and
Increased pay. One union man said last
night that the secretary who wrote to
the company's officials, apprising them
of the demands, and members of the
committee which afterward waited upon
them, had been discharged.
Officials of the company Bald that
they knew of the exlstenre of no such
union and that no demanda had been
lecelved.
NEOR0 KILLS 2 U. S. SAILORS.
Rboota In Norfolk Street aad Es
capes as Bluejacket lite,
Norkolk, Va., April 6, ('. K. Davis,
ordinary seaman from the battleship
New Hampshire, and Cliarlw Stronstroni
from the naval hospital, were shot and
killed here to-night by George Carter, a
negro.
Davis. Stronstrom and several other
bluejackets Interfeied with several
iiegroea, who were mistreating an aged
u-hlte man. William Carter started to
run and the sailors pursued, while his
i.rniher. Georae Carter, borrowed u run
opened fire on the sailors without warn
ing uav Hliu niruiiBiiuin, mot in ina
hre'aat. died as they reached a hospital.
George Carter escaped.
To prevent a possioie race war, aetacn
men! of marines from the New Hamp
shire rounded up all sailors on shore
to-night and tney were oraereu ubck to
their shlps
D. A. R.'S FIGHT 'BELGIAN TAGS.'
Trreaty Reseats In Boston Oppose
Fiasl "ale aa Desecratloa.
Boston, April 6. Twenty regents of
varioua D. A. R. chapters to-day gave
the finishing blow to the prospective
sale of Belgian flags or tags in this
neighborhood next Saturday. They
voted that tha chapters they represented
should not participate further In the
sal of tha smalt paper emblem labelled
"C. B. B.," which had been aent on from
New Tork In quantities for a Belgian
'tag day,"
The action was taken mainly on tha
ground that the emblem la a "desecra
tion" of lh Stars and Stripes and In
violation of the law, Police Commis
sioner O'Meara has issued an order for
bidding any mdra "tag days."
nUM NONSENSE ABOUT IRKt.AND."
Sere "Infurlstlag Csndor" Jrem a .or,
muraard Maw, to ft gundsf New Terk
Stots, Aattt'l. Order Im rtvMStv-CsaV.
FIRE THRILLS
THOUSANDS IN
FIFTH AVENDE
Spectacular .$100,000 Blaze
Near St. Patrick's De
stroys Shops.
$1,500,000 GEMS IX
SAFE ARE UNHARMED
A spectacular fire In the six story
loft building at 630 Fifth avenue, op
posite St. Patrick's Cathedral, started
at 7:46 o'clock last night, just In time
to draw a crowd of 11,000 people who
pass up and down the avenue nt that
hour to the theatre or other places of
entertainment.
When the blaze was under control, at
9:30, Chief Kenlon estimated the dam
age nt between 130,000 end $100,000,
mostly to high class dressmaking es
tablishments. There were two alarm,
and at times the high shooting flames
on the front of tha building made It
look as If another might be needed.
Fire Marshals Prlal and Caahman be
gan an Investigation soon after the
building cooled which lasted some time.
When they left they said the origin ot
the Are was still sufficiently In doubt to
Justify a more thoiough Investigation
to-day.
The ringing of the first alarm at Po
lice Headquarters sent an order toCapL
Ulldea of the Second Branch Detective
Bureau to hu'riy a wagonload of de
tectives to the scene In case the alarm
might mean a bomb explosion In St.
Patrick's Cathedral.
Service .Vot Interrupted,
The detectlveH found the cathedral un
touched and the Rev Father John J.
Byrne conducting a Lenten service with
a congregation of .100, lie kept right
on to the end, though lire engines
chugged on the sidewalk almost at the
cathedral door. The detectives did. how
over, order the crowd to keep a goodly
distance from the cathedral so that none
might take advantage of the confusion
and explode a bomb.
Fifth avenue from Forty-ninth to
Fifty-second stn-et was tilled with Are
apparatus and hose, and the stream of
automobiles was turned east or we( for
three blocks, as were also the Fifth ave
nue buses. Later the crowd, was pushed
back that far also by sixty policemen
under Inspector Morris, but still thou
sands of people stayed on, watching the
flames and nhowers of sparks as part of
the roof fell in.
So far as Chief Kenlon could tell last
night the tire started near the stair
case on the fourth lloor. which Is oc
cupied by Joseph. Inc., and by Katherlne
Lalsla, who deals in underwear Wher
ever It started, the tire pretty effectually
destroyed the three top lloor. burned
through the roof and demolished a pent
hous atop It. The Janitor tied over the
roof to the bulldlnz next door.
Before a wnter tower had driven the
flames to the rear of the 130 foot build
ing they mreamed out of the front and
up Into the nlr. making a fine sight for
the crowd. The windows of the City
Club. Just north of the cathedral, and of
the Hotel llurllngliam. Just toutli of It.
were tilled with eopl nnd at the Bur
llngliam watchmen were st.itloned on the
loof tj watch for spark all the win
dows were closed,
Firms That Suffered.
The tlnns that weir ulmoM entirely
burned out were the tireenberg Jewelry
Manufacturing Compuny, H. C Pletro,
tlm sculptor; William Burton, a stage
photographer, on the top floor; l.emattre
& Mack, dresses, und A. (I. Carrlck, cor
sets, on tlm tlfth lloor, and Joseph and
Katherlne Lalsia on the fourth.
Theie was heavy water damage to
valuable stocks aud furnlMilngs belong
Ing to Miss Rust, who sells lares and
dresses on the second floor, nnd to the
fine dressmaking establishment of B.
Schullck on the third floor. K. W. Oat
tie. the Jeweller on the ground floor.
had 11,500,000 In Jewelry In his safe,
but ot off easily. He expects Ills stole
to be open to-day. Tlm big building
of De Pinna, clothing dealers, to the
south, waa not touched, nor was the
loft building on the north.
Two firemen were Injured and had to
tie taken to Polyclinic Hospital, but the
condition of neither Is serious. John
J, Hamilton of Knglne 8 was overcome
by smoke and Redmond Woodmeyer of
Truck 21 waa out by glass. Nobody
else was hurt.
The building belongs to Henry Clews
and was his residence until he converted
It Into a loft building. Only a few days
sgo he filed suit against Joseph, Inc.,
charging that his millinery machines
vibrated so unuoh that the other tenants
were complaining. Joseph olso has a
floor In 634 Fifth avenue, next door, and
has cut through tho two buildings. He
had J230.000 worth of gowns In the
basement of 634, and does not know
bow they fared. Mr. Clews' wilt was
to be decided lcday.
HENS TO LEAD SALOON FIGHT.
HQO.OOO Dozen Hga F.xpeeted as
One Week's Contribution.
Watkrtown, 8. D., April 6. The
State Prohibition committee will ask
every woman In the State raising
chickens to give all of the eggs her
hens lay during the last week of May
for the cause. Local egg week organiza
tions will be formed.
Already many women have agreed
to the plan and It I expected that there
will bo several thousand crates of eggs
sent In to help the fight against the
saloons. One week of faithful work
on the part ot (he hens of the State
would produce, at the season of ths
year selected for egg week, 600,000
dosen eggs.
PENN. B.B. MAN CRITICALLY ILL
Chief Eaajlaeer of Maintenance of
War- Attacked by Vertlaro,
PlilLAoaLPlllA, April E. A. W. Gush
ing, aged 52, chief engineer of main
tenance of way of the Pennsylvania
lines In Pittsburg, was stricken with
vertigo here to-day and taken to the
Jefferson Hospital, where It wa aald
that his condition was critical.
Mr. Curbing was visiting friends In
this clly. '
(IREAT BEAK MTRINO WATER,
lie. th case et six glass stoppered settle.
A4V,
GERMAN DRIVES
AT DOUAUMONT
VAUX LINE FAIL
Attacks Cease North of Ver
dun -French Gain in
Caillettc Wood.
OPEN FORMATIONS
USED BY TEUTONS
fptcial Cablt lieumteh lo Tax Six.
Paris, April 0. The German attempt
to break through the French defences
on the Douaumont-Vaux line, northeast
of Verdun, has failed for the time being-
st least, If It has not been abandoned.
Following the failure of the energetic
attack on the French positions south of
the village of Douaumont yesterday af
ternoon and the progress gained by the
French counter attacks north of the
Calllette wood, a little to the east, the
Germans In this sector made no effort
to continue the offensive they had un
dertaken In the afternoon.
Taking advantage of this lull on the
Douaumont front the French continued
their attacks north of the Calllette wood.
This wood lies directly south of Fort
Douaumont. and the Hardaumont wood,
upon which the Germans at this point
are being gradually driven.
There was no Infantry activity In the
Verdun rexlon to-day. although Inter,
mlttent artillery fighting continued In the
Douaumout-Vnux sector.
CannonadlusT oa lloonomont l.lae,
Tho official communique Issued by the,
French War Office to-night says:
In Belgium a destructive Are against
the enemy trenches in front of Steen
straetc gave good rrsulta.
North of the Alene our anlllery
was active betwen the Bols Iteauuuiai
and Berry-au-Hac.
In the Argnnne our artillery con
tinued Its concentiatlon of tire on the
tines and mutes of communication of
the enemy front, notably In the region
ot Montfaucon und the Hols de Malan
couit. West of the Meuse the day was
calm. To the east of the river theie
was Intermittent rannonadlirc In the
Douaumont-Vaux sector. There was
no Infantry action on the whole of our
front In the region of Verdun.
The official' communique Issued this
afternoon tells of German activity on
the eastern part of the line In Lorraine
and the Vosgea.
French Kaplnde (iernian Mines,
The afternoon communique was a:
follows
In the Argonne there has been a
combat with hand grenades In the
sector between Holante and l..i I'llle
Mort. We rained the explosion of
two mince, which damaged an enemy
trench.
West of the Meuse last night passed
with relative calm. F.aet of the river
we took part In several engage
ments, during the course of which w.
made progress In the connecting;
trench north of Calllette wood.
In the Woevre there has been an
Intense bombardment In the sectois
between Moulalnvllle and Chatillou.
The Germans threw twenty-two mlncw
Into the Meuse north of St Mlhiel.
They floated down and wele exploded
by us without causing any damage.
In Lorraine the Germans, after a
violent bombardment of our position
between Arrttcourt and St, .Martin,
delivered several small Infantry at
tacks against various points In this
sector. The enemy was ever) where
thrown back by our machine guns
anri th Mr fif nllr firtlllerv.
In the Vosges a leconiiHlssance In
force on the part of the enemy who
were endeavoring lo reach our
trenches to the southeast of Celles
was easily dispersed.
Particular mention Is made bv cone.
spondents at the front of a change In
German tactics, as shown In the recent
attacks on the front east of the Mtuse.
This change In formation, obviously In-
tended tn decrease their losses, Is Inttr -
preiett uy r rencn military critics as in
dicating that the losses suffered by the
attacking German forcts in the previous
massed attacks were very heavy.
In the assault south or Douaumont
village yesterday afternoon the German
formation consisted of three thin lines.
In unusually open order, behind which
were small supporting columns In close
order.
BERLIN SAYS FOES LOST.
Declare. French Were Halted In
the noaaamntit Hector,
BZRI.IN, via London, April 6. Army
Headquarters Issued the following state
ment to-day regarding operations In the
west ;
Artillery engagements In the Ar
gonne and In the Meuse district are
continuing with undiminished vigor.
The situation is unchanged,
On the left bank of the Meuse the
French were provented by the Ger
man from again occupying the hill
northeast of Ilaumont.
in the Fort Douaumont sector yes
terday repeated counter attacka of
the enemy broke down before the Ger
man line southwest of ths fort and In
front ot the German positions In the
north part of the Calllette wood.
German troops In Lorraine and on,
the Alsatian front carried out several
successful patrol enterprises.
SHELL GERMAN LINE.
British tiiss KsTostlve Xorta of
Ypres-St. Jallea ttoad.
Spieiot Cable Dtttatch to Taa St.x.
London. April C. The following re
port from British headquarters In
France was Issued to-night by the offi
cial press bureau:
Last night we sprung mines suc
cessfully near Hulluch, damaged a
hostile gallery and wrecked post
established In old craters.
To-day we bombarded a hostile
work near the Bols Grenier with good
effect.
About St. ICIol the artillery of both
sides was active. .
North of the Ypres-HI, Jullen road
our heavy artillery carried out a bom
bardment, doing much dsmage to the
hostile trenches and causing numerous
explosions.
I
CHANCELLOR IN
SPEECH DENIES.
MENACE TO U.S.
Calls Idea of Invading Can
ada Silly No American
Territory Wanted.
MUST USE U BOATS,
HE TELLS REICHSTAG
Sftciat Vablf Dupetth to Ts St.
RKnt.lN, via Amsterdam, April 6. Dr.
von Bethmann-ilollweg, the Imperial
Chancellor, jleldlng at last to the year
old nationwide demand for a govern
mental statement, told the Reichstag to
day where Germany stands with regard
lo tho Culled Htates. the submarine war
fare, Poland, Belgium and other small
nationalities of Kurope, Prussian mili
tarism and Hie German war aims.
The Chancellor's speech was the most
comprehensive he has delivered since
the outbreak of the war. It wns liber
ally applauded. Briefly summarized,
these were Ills ouletalidlhg aisertious:
Germany is lighting for her life and
for the aerurlty of peace In Kurope, not
for conquest. She will not rush against
the American continent or attempt to
coixiuer Canada : nor ha she designs on
territorial acquisition In any countiy
whatsoever.
The German aubm.n Ine warfare Is the
one effective defensive weapon against
; Knaland' announced plan to starve out
(erinaiiy -it is liermany s aim to re
spect neutral lights, but she muat In
turn expect neutrals to appreciate her
position, which compels her to use all
,.-,. ., I... ,it..i
means at her disposal.
Heady to Cut l.lvlnsr Standards.
Germany cannot be starved out. If
necrssarj, she will enlist moral reserves
to lowei the standards of living. She
liui even ieort to cutting down the con
sumption of meat to the level of the
"70s.
Poland and Belgium, the Baltic prov-
' I nli.l ..It... U.M..II mi... k..
Inces nnd other small nations mint be
restored to a condition where they can
develop according to their mother tongue
and natural Individuality. The Polish
question must and will be solved by tier-
l many and Austria-Hungary. After the
war there must be a new Belgium.
If the Allies' fundamental condition
for peace is that Prussian militarism
will be crushed, then peace negotia
tions will be ended before they begin.
The definite destruction of Prussia's
military power would make Germany
the scapegoat of Kurope. Therefore
rrinaiiy sword will be the answer
dun.
Cermam' aim in ibis u.ir i m r.
i.. ...(.. . miiim me. iMiirrn nt inn mm iitcniM- u:m. lit ,t;iu'ur'iir?r ki.i
The military situation I favorable unquestioned, h felt It better to stand Pre dent s handling of the r.hcr cases
for Germany The theorv that her 1 ithln the bioadest Interpretation f which have come up. Moral proof that
aim,.. are depleted and exhausted I. his moial obligation to sek the advice tho Su.ex was toipedood would. It I
.H........ ..I i., .1 i r.f I'onnM. Xi m, t.-.i nMe In f.irrsi S.lhl. tend to Iefell the President S f.lllll
nr ,ivi. "J i.ic 1'i.n' "I Ullir I'll n-
move foiever the temptation to nnnl- ,0 free what a tuplure of diplomatic
hllalf her and to bring about permanent lelatlon with tleiiiiany might lejd to.
peace In llmoue which will permit her Count von Berustorff In his former
freely to eneiclse her peaceful en- talks with Secretary lining ha em
ileavuif. i phaslzed the serlouine. of a diplomatic
lll.nsiiin r 1 Mliniln 'lll."
Dr. Hetlimann-Hollvveg said In part!
Th. Int.., ., .., .h ...l. ..l.
utlne campaign dliected against us Is
..V i .11.1 .
a lepnrt that we after the end of this
war shall rush agalrst the American
' ,1... .. -I. i, . .
I ! " V ,lutTH ''
J. i , r.t "i"1"
,.. " ,
rr .7, .;.'lhe I Ulent to take Congre Into his
"i in mi.. ,nici Ivan t-uuuiri wnaisoever,
, "We light ror our existence and for
lour future. For Germany and not for
space in a foreign country me tier-
1 uianv son bleeding and dying on the
I battlefield. Kvery one among us knows
I M- aml " makes our hearts and nerves
' strong. This moral force strengthens
i ",lr will In order not only to weather
!!' I!""" bMl tt ,a Bcl,lve vie ,
I turj.'
"Our enemies wihh to destroy united,
free Germany. They deslie that (ler-
many shall be again as weak as during
past ceiituiles. a piey of all lusts of
, domination of her m-ighbots nnd th
Hcapegoat of Kurope, beaten back for-1
ever In the dominion of economic evolu
tion, even nfter the war. That I what
our enemies menu when they speak of
definite destruction of Prussia's military
power.
"And what Is our Intention? The
sense and aim of this war la for us Hi.
creation of a Gennany so firmly united,
so strongly protected that no one ever
will feel the temptation In annihilate us,
that every one In the world will concede
to us the right of free exercise of our
peaceful endeavors. This Germany, and
not the destruction of other races. Is
what we wish. Our aim Is the lasting
lescuo of the Kuropeaii continent, which
Is now shaken to Its very foundations."
Another Belgium, "
Touching specifically upon Belgium
the Chancellor said
"After the war theie must be another
Belgium.
"We niiiit create teal guarantees Hint
Belgium shall never be a Franco. British
vassal: never again shall be used as n
military or eioiioiiilc fortification against
Germany. Also In this respect things
cannot be ns thoy were l-efo.e. Also
bete Gennany cannot sacrifice the sup-
piessed Flemish race, but must assure
for tlicin sound evolution which rorre-
sponil to their rich natural gifts, which
Is based on their mother tongue nnd fol
Iowa their national character.
"We want neighbors that do not form
coalitions against us, but with whom we
col In borate and who collaborate with us
to our mutual ndvnntngr. Remembrance
of this wnr will still echo In the sadly
tried Belgian country, but we shall never
allow that this will he a new source of
wars shall not allow It In our mutual
Interest."
The Chancellor said that reports that
German military force had been ex
pended were untrue and added that the
Verdun battle had shown that In opera
tions prepared with great foresight and
carried out with the bravery of the Ger
man troops one' advantage after another
'could be secured. He praised tho sol
diers and their leaders for their great
work.
Concerning attempts lo starve Ger
many by blockade he said:
"I understood that In 1915 our enemies
would not give up this hope, but I do
pot understand how coal heads after the
experience of 1915 can cling to It. Our
enemies forgot that, thanks to the or
ganizing powers of the whole nation,
Continued on Third Page,
PROOF GERMANY BROKE
PLEDGES MULTIPLIES;
SUSSEX REPORT IS IN
Torpedo Fragment Said to Be Undoubtedly of Teutonic
Make Wilson Expected to Ask Congress's
Support in Taking Drastic Steps.
Washinoton, April 8. President Wil
son Is now determined to take final ateps
In the submarine Issue with Germany
which will, he believe, protect the right
of American citizens and the honor of
the nation.
He will use the recent Instances of
attack on ships carrjing Americans a
a means of obtaining Ironclad assur
ances of this protection from Germany
or he will go before Congress and ask
that a Joint resolution be sdopted au
thorizing him to take whatever ateps
he may deem necessary to obtain It.
The President's decision beqjm known
to-night, it Is understood that Secretary
of State Lansing explained the position
of the United States to-day to M. Jus-
sera nd, the French Ambassador.
Ambassador Jusserand to-ntirbt made
public, with the permission of Secretary I flclnlly that the steamer Berwlndale, an
ljaimlng, the report of Hear Admiral other ship with Americans on Iward, had
Grasset of the French navy on the at-'been torpedoed without warning,
tack on the Sussev This state that. The four Ametlcins on board are be
both passenger and officers on the Ueveil to have been tescurd. Details
Sussex saw not only the wake of the ,,r. ,o far lacking nnd Secretary I.an-
torpedo but the torpedo Itself. ,
in euunuun is nemier more nor le
eerlou.s than It was a week ago, but the I
President' views have crystallized Into ,eHChed the State Department late this
definite shape and the ollcy "f'uflenioon concerning an attack on the
watchful waltlnx" has slven wav to a
policy of "prospective action."
This action, it Is said, now awaits only
the reply which Berlin inukew to the lift
of Instancea where American lives have
been Jeopardized by alleged attack of
(icrmati suumarln and which Amba
sador Gerard at Berlin lias brought to '
the attention of tbe German Foreign
Ofllce.
. lne lf" ""many win tnaKe
'has now aesumed pilme Itmioitance. It
must satisfy the President that the rkhts
of Americana will henceforth be pro
tected, Otherwise the President will pro
ceed to take step to secuio ttief-e. rights
without reference to tho German reply,
according to Authoritative information.
The President will give due weight to
question. of fact which Gennany may '
, dispute, but argumentative question of
pnw'Vfiie ne win not consider, ine time
has clearly rome, the President believes,
when the principle for which he has
contended must either be respected or
Ignored Theie can be no tiHlfway
ineasuie.
To JteeeU t'onaress' A.ltlce,
I, pal. Itutlln r.fn.ui , r raui.il
prlncrple unqualifiedly the President . was torpedoed. hecieiarj l-ansmg is
will. It Is explslned, proceed as he did looking after the legal aspects of the
on the eve of the seizure of Vera Cruz 1 evidence nnd Is giving painstaking at
by the American forces. In that case I tentlon to details.
Hi Prraliliuit hifnrm.il i'ntiirr.w ibai. It Is explained that even If official
while hla constitutional authority to
what the ou-WNitton of Vera Cruz might
. lend to any more than any one I able
rupture for the reason that Germany t
wouiu llien iiuuaui.v inuirru mm
, submarine campaign without refeienoe
.-ilir,i.uii ni.ucn ... ,bu. ...... o
the President in the position of having
to use the armed force of the country
' lo I iiii t e the protection of American
rixilts Mini ine noiiur ui me nnu
Ilti.il explain that the acute ser
'of serious consequences ha del
lights and the honor of the uatlun. Uf- .
liniHiirw
f course,
losslblllty
oi serious runw uupih" iwt uriri iiuiir-
tounsels before taking any slli'li uen-
i ., ,
' .,
etrri.tr
latnsing and Ambassador
:
FEARS AMERICAN DIED
AS FRENCH DESERTER
Koieiiiii ion MoiiiImt Trllsj
of DiMippt'iinincr of
.1 I'. Dii Hois.
Sfircial lormpondenrr lo Ths Si.
Paris, March ;3. Fears that .1. P Dti
?ols, an American member of the Foreign
Legion, had been shot for deei tlon. weio
expressed to-day bv another American
In the Legion who, In Pari on con
valescent leave, called at the olllce of
Tun Sun to make Inquiries regarding
Du Hols.
tlo said Du Hois was an Intellectual,
well educated man and possessed one of
the most attractive persoiialitlea lie had
encountered In the Legioii. He understood
that Du Bols wa a ttradtiate of I.eland
Stanford University and a man of musl
ral ability who hud sung In opera In tho
United State.
"Ho was an anarchist In fact," the
Informant of Tiik Sun continued, "and
wns a friend of Knnna tloldman. 1 was
told that he left the United Stntts on
account of some trouble Into which hi
,,,,,, hllli B, Ulm nm enlisted in tho
iKon.
,,uarretled with a Lieutenant and
broke the officer's Jaw with a blow. For
ti,s he was sentenced lo live years In a
regiment in rtirica, , tne sentence to or
servca nner inu rnu u too .noi ..
- un tioin imu i.u n.ir...,..,, ... r. . h.r
sunt it sememe mm uiuuru ,,. 1
X r reucii iiiciiii, nil mi.iniini him- ii.i..-
self, bought him a passpoit. but Du
Bole's attempts to desert miscarried aud
he and his friend were arrested."
The caller said ho had been unable
to learn what happened after the ar
rest, but that he had heard that Du
Bols was taken from prison under
guurd. From this he assumed that Du
Bols had been shot.
Xat Known at I.eland Mnnford,
San Francisco, April &, Thu only
Du Bola attending I.eland Stanford in
recent years was L. 43. Du Bols, He
left college six years ago and nothing
further Is known of him here.
Ghenadleff Charard With Intrlgnr
Special Cable Dtipnlrh to Tne 8l'X'
Atiikns, via London, April &. M,
Gheuadlcff, former Foreign Minister of
Bulgaria, has lK-en arrested at Sofia
with seven others. It Is believed that
the eight are charged with Intriguing
against the Government.
Jusserand to-day talked over the all Im
portant case of the Channel liner Sussex,
alleged to have been attacked by a Ger
man submarine. M. Jusserand Is not
only convinced that tho steamer was
torpedoed but Is certain that It will be
easy to prove that a German submarine
was responsible. Hecretnry Lansing re
ceived to-day Important cable advices
from Ambassador Page at London giv
ing the conclusions of the naval at
taches of the London and J'arls em
bassies after they had examined the
damage to the Kussex and the alleged
fragments of torpedo. .The conclusion
of the naval experts are that the ship
was damaged by a German submarine.
The fragments of the torpedo lire re
ported to be unquestionably of German
make.
Another Milp Torpedoed.
While State Department officials were
examining these cable advices iroiu l.ou
rnclif..l .t4rrtnri' Tmnsltnr of-
plug has not yet forwarded the report to
Ambassador Oeraril A report ironi
American Consul Frost nt Qiieciistown
lirltlsh bark Ben cairn It Mild:
"British bark Bengalrn sunk Apill 1
160 miles southwest of Fastnet by gun
tlre. Ample warning given. No casu
alties. All saved, IncludliiK two Amor-
'ra'l'i nn.lorsloGi! that the State De-
partment will not bring this case to the
attention of Germany for the reason that
the Consul s evidence cieariy snows in.n
the submarine commander acted within
the promises which Germany has made
to the fnlted State by clvlhg ample
warning and providing for the safety of
the crew. ...
The State Department has heard tin
officially that the German submarine
commander who sank the British
Hteamer Englishman has reported to the
nr,m Admlraltv. This report I that
rhe steamer tried tn escape a hit un
lieedtnx several warning shots.
The Berlin Government still maintains
It knows iiothiliK about the cause of tho
explosion which damaged the Stlsfex. It
u not vet definitely known whether the
1 President will bring this matter to Ger-
mauv's notice nnu support ny me nr.iss
of cumulative evidence which has been
gathered the allegation that the ship
1 proof Is not coming In the Suex rae
iff i nivuru in iiir-
In Germany's promises m case the ller-
, im i.nvernmeiu peirisis hi m-inn k
aponslblllty. It 1- added th'.it the Piesl.
dent' estimate of the value of tbee
promises will go a long way toward de
termining Ills final ii.tlon
SUSSEX REPORT SENT.
I ,
Officers oniilel. Intesllun-
tlon lt or Torpedo roiiml f
Speriiit CabU llrtptt, to Tns M'v
(aims, Apii f. -Aniei Iran nilkers
nave eompieirii tueir oiiloial eMimimitlon
I ' 'he reult ot the explosion on the
-haniicl steamer Sussex,
, . w,..,. ,,,. ,,,
veMigatum are .Major .lame- A. Logan,
.utai ne in me ,niei lean i-.inuae
111
Coiiflimn on I'mirth Pilot
FIFTH AIR RAID ON
ENGLAND IN 6 DAYS
Z'l'li"i Hrivpii oil lie-
ffiit'iw Almost I'l'i'iVcicil,
Commons II em's.
Sirritil Vablr rii.tmlcl, in TnK Six.
LonpuN, Apill The War Otllce to.
night stated that a Zeppelin to-nlsht
attacked tho unitheasi coast of Ifiiglauil,
but was driven off by auti-alicraft guns.
Bomb were dropped, No Infoi m.illon
concerning camialtle or danwgi, has
been received b the War Olllte
This Jh the fifth air raid matle bv
Zeppelins on lliigland within six davs.
There was no laid Tuesday iiKlit, as
far as Is known, but the German alr
trafl paid nlghtlv visits In the IVnBllsh
toast iroui i riuay to .Monday. The
casualties from the raid were placed
uv ine war mute at s killed and 177 i"mi ."" m "".im.i on un
injured. Ten of thco deaths occurred ''-ss jou think that policy ought t' hi
In Scotland
London llereiiees Inniroi ed.
.xieiul tufce lf)Mich lo Tut Mx
I.ONlioN, Apill 5 - In ivplying to cilti-
, iarold Ten . nt l" . ler Secret' rv ?
si .t.. r.r V J lid i .Vihv- i,?ib,V nn,,l
1 nUlw ta A
I i,onilon had been driven off iinknown
! ,,el Itilml'iaV.iits unknown to
c.htn or tiii" nlr m fence or tlreat Britain
, him,,,, pi .the L-K., which wa
,
ii.nil,V.
'i twist
lid tint
(i(mr, 1V nntUilicraft batteries, another
, lrf ,,,,, waH mt honievvhere on Hi,
' Theie was irason to liope, ho s;
th.. ilefriicew would hoom h i.'rr.,r uu.
said the Government would not neylect
li. ,.rf..r of IVnilw. i., itiiu,,,. .. i. .. .
elertrd on an "air defence" ticket, to or
ganUo a raid on Zeppelin sheds, Ills.
propoHal for the Improvement tif tlm
ulr service will be considered, be s.'ilil.
Military observers hold the opinion that
tho recent air raids on England wero
puiely for the pmpoae of distracting the
German public opinion from the failure
at Verdun,
FRANCIS JOSEPH TO THE FRONT.
Preparations for Journey Are Com
pleted, Home Itepnrt.
Special Cable Detpatcn to Tns Six.
Homk, April r. F.mperor Francis Jo.
seph, disregarding the warning of doc
tors, ha determined to visit the Italian
front.
Preparations for tho Journey have been
completed, and possibly ths aged mon
arch will leave Vienna next week.
T.R.TORUN IF
6.0. P. STAND IS
FOR AMERICA
s
Tells Republican Drlcgntf!
No Use to Nominate
v Him Otherwise.
WON'T '-PUSSYFOOT
ON A SINGLE ISSUE
Would Hate Even a ,Iust.
War, but Sees Need of
Tropa redness.
J
J. C. SHAFFER SAIS
311 1) WEST IS AROUSED
Newspaper Owner Expects
Naming on First Ballot
or Soon Afterward.
Otsikr Bat, I I April 6. OoL
P.oosevelt'. hat Is In tho ring. There I
no longer any doubt of that, lis an
nounced the terms under which he would
be the Jtepubllcan candidate for Presi
dent In telling a political caller who
expects to be a delegate to tho Republi
can National Convention not to nominate!
him If he expects tho Colonel to "pussy
foot" on a single Issuo he ha. raised or
unless he thinks this nomination la in
thu Interests of tho United States.
This visitor was a man from a nearby
State who came to Sagamoro Hill paying
that he expected to be & candidate for
Congress as well as a delegate to the
G. o. P. convention. Then, In hopes of
the Colonel' support of hid Congres
sional candidacy, the optimistic pilgrim
added: "You know, Colonel, I may
make up my mind that wall have to
nominate you."
"Well," began th Colonel, pausing;
moment to gather his strength before
letting loose, "now let me give you a
pleco of advice. If you have uny doubts
on the subject don't nomlnuto mo.
"Get It iierfectly clear In your head,
thai If you nomlnato me It mustn't ba
because you think It Is In my Interest,
but liecause you think It la In your Inter
ost and the Interest ot tho lUpubllcaa
party, and because you think It Is In th
Interest of tho United States to do so.
Mnt Be "Pro.l'nltcd .tnle.''
"And more than that, don't jou do It
If you expert mo to pussyfoot on any
slnglu lssuo I havo raised. Don't be for
me unless you art) prop.ired to say that
every citizen of tiMs country baa got to
bo pro-Uulted States- first, last nnd all
tho tlmo, and not pro-anythlns el6 at
all, and that svo stand for every good
American everywhere, whatcvir his
blrthplacii or ciecd and wherever h
now lives, and that In return vvn de
maud that li bo.ati American nnd noth
ing else, with no hyphen about htm.
"L'very Amcilcaii citizen muat bo for
America first and for no other country
even second, nnd he hasn't any right to
be in tho United States nt nil If he has
any divided loyalty between this country
nod any other.
"1 don't caio a lap for llux man's
creed or blrthplaio or national origin en
long as he I straight United State.. I
am for him If hu Is straight United
Stales, and if ho Itn't I am against him.
Ami don't you nominate mo unless you
aio prepared to take tho position that
! Untie Sam Is to bo stiong enough tn
I defend his rights and lo defend every
ono of his pcopli) wherever theso peoplo
aio, nnd he can't bo stiong enough un
less be pit-pares in advance.
"I am not for war. On tho contrary
I abhor an unjust or n wanton war. and
1 would ii'i every honorable expedient
to avoid even a just war. Hut I feel
witli nil my heart that juu don't in tho
long i un avoid war by making other
people believe that you'io atrald to fight
lor your own right.
"Uncle S.int mult tniver wrong the
weak, lie must never Innilt any one or
wantonly give e.iue for ofTenrn in
either tlm vvi'.ik or tho htrnnc. nnd tha
surest possible wn to tniiblo him
keep tlm peace and to keep II on terms
that will enable Americans to hold their
heads high and not hang them in shnmii
Is for him tn ln en -prepared in advance,
nnd I mean prcp.ivd In his own enul at
well a with his army and navy, that
when ho say anything tlm rest of tlm
world will know that b mean. It and
that ho ran make It good,
N,II, Menu Peace,
followed out and followed out for your
said) as well n for niliio aid for tho
Mike of the rest nf II heiu In th United
State. And don't forget that Hint Isn't
a raurptt that provoke war; it Is tho
only courso thit In the lmig run pre.
VPntH ,var f0cm'e" ,",,x "T"'
l'vt an'1 guaranti. th" '"""
'',,"',r ,1" rlBl", "' lM "Uten'
1 wlu,,'cvt r tlir-v ", ,y ''' .....
wul , ,.olmlf., ,.011,i,ied H
niivit'o aim ins cam i. " " '"'
unexpected outburst. Is F.ild to havi
mumuri'd something tP.iiU-ul.it.. and tt
,MV" 'lir,,'(l a ,mr ' f"r ,allr":l'
ntlvifo and his caller. nonMlussed bv tin
unexpected outburst. ! f.ild to liavn
mil to
1
station
I r"' H""'Velt to'.d hull was n
1 innre di'Mnltc. tiinl cunuilne i lalnratlou
nf bis Tiiindnd Mitlcincni, in winch In
had s-ild It would be o ui.M.uw .i noinl
mile him unless the founirv Ina in IU
mood mint-thing of tl.o hcunv Sin.n
tli.it statement inod Hie folmiel
has heard that the tommy ,t lapldlv
acquiring a mood of tin muiI III
foltowelM s.i Hail hi i Mines nf get
ting tilt) Itepulillc.in 1 1 .11 ii i . illon hi vi)
Jumped III three iimhiIIi limn mm In a
hundred to one in two or thtiv.
From the uiidditi We-i, wheie thi
Colonel's iidviren tcm-il tlutt ill deaue
for preparedness and lioiiseti!.m lsy
decidedly dnini.tnt, ciinio iiiuu'i lo-iWiv
tn tho contain", -loiin i'. i ii'ie , tlvi
editor of a chiin of i vsp,ii. i - m ctii.
c.iao, Indianapolis. I."! -. He li.--.er,
Terie llitulc 11 ml MtPn.e Iikh.kiii inn
reports.
Mr. Shitlfei" lolil ItooM'Velt tl.it th-t
middle W( Ft is With li-in Ho s.t.-l:
"The Impicsslon whliii pit-tail- in 1'i-t
F!s1 that the gical iiuiiulo Uv-. u nyj
,ti
r
1
I , si - n
i ... ..'MLf.taltt-i riuixi. - ..
v
