ALBUQUERQUE MORNING- J OURN AL.
CITY
EDITION
CITY
EDITION
THIHTV.SF.VKXTK TEAK.
Vol.. L. Noll.
ALBUQUERQUE, NEW MEXICO.THURSDAY, APRIL 6, 1916,'
Daily by Carrier or Mall, SOa
a Month. Single Ciic, i4
NATIONAL GUARD
LOBBY SIRIIIES
FOB DEFEAT OF
PREPAREDNESS
Senators Believe Scheme' to
Eliminate Garrison's Volun
teer Plan From Army Bill Is
Beaten, .
WILLIAMS WARNS OF
DANGER TO COUNTRY
THE WEATHER
Wi:.TIIKK IXmiXAST.
Denver, April 5. New Mexico:
Thursday, fatr in south, probably rain
ii' snow north portion, colder by
night; Friday, fair in west, rain or
snow and colder east portion-
local wkathkk rkport.
For twenty-four hours, ending at
6 P. m. yesterday.
Maximum temperature, Hi degrees,
minimum, 3d degrees; range, 32 de
gress; temperature tit (i p. in., D2 do
dress; southwest wind; partly cloudy.
CITY BAXK CLKARIXGS.
Yesterday
$4,r42.2.
Nation Must Have
Power or Be Bullied by Vic
tor When European Strug
' ele Is Over,
Kr MORNINR JOURNAL RMOAL LtARID tIRll
Washington, April 0. Advocates of
the federal volunteer provision of the
senate army bill believed the section
had been saved by a narrow margin
Nelson, who called attention to tele
grams from the national guard offic
ials sent to many senators urging
them to vote against the federal vol
unteer provision,
"If the national guard Intends to
come here politically und undertake
to control legislation calculated to
protect America ugainst the world,"
said the Oregon senator, "I, for one,
from now on shall favor the elimina
tion of tile national cuarrl iih ii inlll-
Ample!tar5' f,lf",nr ln this country. They
' iVi,,...- 1....... .1 t r -i.:
i"'r ui- u licit: uuu Hie line JOI K Ilia
purpose."
Senator Nelson declared that he
never before had seen "such lobbying
as these outside Influences have
brought to bear to defeat certain sec
tions of this hill."
To Investigate Lobbi'lii!?.
Senator Sherman sought to intro
duce a resolution to Investigate
charges of lobbying. Senator t'liara-
berlain said ho would favor It when
LULL IN BATTLE
T
BOD
VERDUN
FOLLOWS GAINS
Bf FRENCH ARMY
By Determined Counter-attack,
Germans Are Driven
From Several Recently Cap
" tured Positions,
HINDENBURG RENEWS
OFFENSIVE IN EAST
Struggle Between Austrians
and Italians Continues With
out Material Gains on Either
Side.
RUSSIAN FORCES
IN ASIA SOON
TO MEET GREAT
TURKISH ARMY
Grand Duke Is Still Moving
Swiftly Beyond Erzerum,
and Important Battle Be
lieved Certain,
JUNCTION WITH THE
BRITISH IS DELAYED
Germans Are Attacking in
Riga Region and Serious
Conflict on Eastern Fiont Is
Reported Raging,
iRY MORN, NO JOURNAL SPECIAL LEASCD WIRtl
For a moment the infantry of both !
sides is quiet everywhere along the j
western front, in Fiance. On the much j
disputed sectors around Verdun the
....!..!(.. t..u l.niMl nil lllturnlll- .
without having reached a vote on theuVOuld not permit it to delov eonsid-itent bombardment in the region of'
Lee amendment to strike It out. Sen- Pinlion of the nrmv bill. i Dounmnnt Hnd Vnux. This calm fol- , yond
SUSSEX CUT IN
TI BY TORPEDO,
SAYS OFFICIAL
FRENCH REPORT
fornrd-d to the
by tlic m, iimme
Graphic Story of Catastrophe
Is Told by Rear Admiral
Grasset, Who Made Care
ful Investigation,
CAPTAIN SAW AND TRIED
TO AVOID MISSILE
Commander of Undersea Boat
Fully Aware That Steamer
Was Unarmed and Loaded
Passengers,
when the senate recessed tonight j brought up in the regular way,
but j
utor Chamberlain, chairman of the, "Germany has
90,000 Herman re-
tRV MORNINO JOURNAL RRICIAL LIABCO WIRf 1
Potrograd, April r, (via lotidon,
!):40 p. in.) Although there lias been
no recent official news concerning the
developments on the Caucasus front,
It has been learned from private
sources that the Ittissian armies be-1
F.rzerum and in Persia are pro-'
l he
Tile oilier will be
ministry of muriiii
authm llit-s.
'The submarine which torpedoed
the Sussex could not he ignorant of
(!i fact that she was attacking the
mall packet of the regular ,-ross-clmnnel
service between Dnglanii and
France; not only ale the outlines of
Ihese boats well known to all sailors,
but the course of the Sussex and the
time of her crossing were clearly in
dicative of her service. It Is, there
fore, obviously a premeditated attack
on an uiiartnl merchant ship, cur
ried out w'ilhnut the slightest warn
ing.
Other i:hlence dilii-r-tf.
"One last fact shows up still more
clearly, the premeditate,) and implac
able character of the submarine's op
erations. A boat was dispatched ,,t
S p. in. to the Colliart s lightship to
announce the catastrophe. This boat
arrived at the lightship at p. in.
Her crew were picked up by a British
torpedo boat destroyer at :i o'clock In
Lie morning, 1 luring the trans
shipment a torpedo was fired ut the
destroyer and passed 41 few meters
astern p her. This fact has been
confirmed by the British admiralty.
Judging by the course eo ered by this
boat the lightship must have been at
most six or seven miles from the Sus
sex. "It follows Dial the submarine must
have remained In the neighborhood of
the Sussex; In order to torpedo nn
ship which miihl come to the rescue
of her victim."
U.S.GAVALRYMEN f
IN TvlEXtCO MUCH
WORN BY HARD
CHASE FOB VILLA
lay MORNINR JOURNAL RRRCIAL LIARID WIRtl
Washington, April .1 A lii'aphU'j
uccount of the wreck of the Jlrlliaiij
channel steamer Sussex, with the as-j
scrlbm that the vessel was deliberately j
torpedoed and without warning by an j
enemy submarine, is contained in t
report by Hear Admiral Grnssct toj
Shoes and Suits of Clothing
Torn to Tatters by Fast
Marches Through Exceed
ingly Rough Country.
SANDALS, SOMBREROS
AND CALICO IN STYLE
Men Are Sometimes Compelled
to Eat Native Beef Raw,
as Time to Cook Meals
Could Not Be Allowed,
military commmee, bskcu again 111.11 , P(,rvi,sts in thls country, all registered I by th
action be deferred as one or two flpn-h th ftffiPH n, (h fjrmnn ,rP,,
mors are still desired to be
Debute on the. volunteer provision
lasted nil day, champions of the na
tional guard supporting the amend
ment occupying most of the time. In
the closing hour, however, Senator
Chamberlain vigorously defended the i
provision s vital to any military pla-n
and denounced attempts of national
guard organizations to Interfere with
legislation. He was joined by Sena
tors O'Gorman an,) Williams in warn
ing the senate that nt the close of the
European war the United States would ; "
UnnwA ..... - , .
'"""'CnnnlAr Cl,nmVul.,ln t.1 M u.. , i A ..,
...1,1 v.im.iiiim i jinn mi I I II llt'll, llll, 1VIIUU'
lows a successful offensive undertaken ; grossing swiftly mid that the liiriilsn tht, ,,.t,m., Keneral staff, made, public;
' French, in which they recap- : forces are orienng only occasional ie-;,,,.,, ,onl(.n, ,v the French embassy,
some of their lost ground and ! sistance. It Is evident that the Hum- Tu, ,.,,,., ' ,,,,, a, Boulogne,
the Hermans back. i 'n troops, advancing through Per- j Mim.h 3U VB. I
I have no fear of war with Germany. On the eastern line in Russia, the'siu to the .Mesopotamia no inc. nave n l.onf(irmi voul. i,1Htru...
I urn not nn alarmist. I have greater Germans have taken up the offensive ""t yet met tne main I ih kisii "" ; 1o)H , ,1.()1.,.,1,1,a lo oulogne, where
fear that when the time comes for-and are attacking heavily with infan-lThe.se, consisting ol the Unwind di- d , .v r,.ltlllve , . j
this country to assert Itself we won't! try und artillery the Russian posi- I visions and re.nlmcem,ji.s sent south-j , , Mtm. 24l
ibe In a position to."
. , ...taskinc the senate eommitleA art miin
need n great nnvy nun an nuequaie ... ..... -
.. . ..v . ut i-.-j iij ,11-1.-1 in in tj VV in-ill,-, ,UU
army to back her demands upon thej
belligerent powers for indemnification i
for the losses sustained through vio
lations of her fight ns a neutral.
Warning by Williams.
"As surely as the sun rises tomor
row morning,' Senator Williams said,
"unless this country puts itself Into a
condition where It can resist and
withstand bulljing, we are going to
be in trouble with the victor In tills i
war unless we surrender the po.si-i
(ions we have taken and timidly sub-t
mit lo the rule which the victor mnyj
lay down for Immunity or disclaimer.".
"Self preservation is the interna- j
tionul code of the belligerents." said!
Senator O'Conman, who contended!
that rights of neutrals had been in-;
vaded by all of the warring Kuropenii!
powers. j
"And protests of neutrals only wllh
be regarded," he added, "if backed by'
sufficient power to enforce their de-
mnnd.V J
Must He l'repureil. ' j
"When this war is over," said Hen-i
alor Chamberlain, "if we intend toj
demand recompense for American j
lives rind property destroyed, if we
are going to demand any satisfaction,
then we ought to be prepared to back
all our demands by force of arms If
necessary. And in what condition
ure we? We have not the power tojpedition
enforce a single demand we have
made."
Senator Williams declared that
while Increasing the urmy was im
portant, enlarging the navy was of
first Importance. The penntor said
he would vote to increase any build
ing program that might be framed,
and favored such a navy by 1918 that
it could meet and defeat any force
that might be started against It.
Investigation of charges that lobbies ! grad say
are seeking to influence preparedness
legislation, was demanded by Senator
Sherman us a means of clearing the
way for more rapid and effective leg
islation of the measures before con
gress. He introduced a resolution ,,.,. i,,iii
tsnt changes
eurred.
itlons. Cnofficiul advices from retro.
however, that the German
Mush, are reported to lie assembling
ontlnurd on I'mrs Inu.)
CABRANA MAY
nowhere have been able to penetrate. ; " " ' """"V." ' ' ,
the Russian line in frontal attacks. j l!u.ss,ans reach this in they w,l be;
! if routed no longer bv mountain
iighti.iK on itnu mini. baniis Hlld rPmminl(, r nl.k(ln ,,
The Italians ant Austrians are con- demoralized divisions, but with the;
tinuing their operations along ine i fu Mtl).nSth of tin- orga nized Turkish
front, but no lmpor-1 !irrny,
in positions have or.-j Therefore, although an ultinbito
!. 1uili lion with the liritish forces is not
The British in Mesopotamia have j doubted, it is supposed that this con-J
; captured an important Turkish posi- j summation of the Russian plans Willi
it Ion at Cmni-el-IIenna, on the Tigris j . eusily reached. j
S00N0BJECT TO
U. S. EXPEDITION
; river, 20 miles In-low Kut-el-Amarn.
This victory is considered in London
jas giving hope for the early relief of
( the Urltish fore s who have been be
sieged in Kut-cl-Amara since last De
cember. The Russians also lire sue- j
eessfully operating- iigainsl the Turks j
in the Caucasus and I'ersian regions.!
lAtwt of Aeroplunes. f
Berlin reports the loss during j
strong German Offensive.
The fiermun forces have passed
quickly to' a general offensive along
the entire northern front ln Russia,
their attacks rem btpn the highest in
tensity in the Riga region, where the
preliminary skirmished have develop
ed into a steady assault, supported by
the heavy artillery. The Germans,
however, have been unable to get in
. f , ,...nu r -rrri rv n , ,' o : n, i eu mo us, ine
.Murcn or louiiceii ,,,, ...i. . .. , - .
Hie Sussex, belonging to the. State
Railway company, and running the
regular service between Kngland audj
Kranee, left Folkestone at 1 ; 2 T p. in. j
for Dieppe, Tills bout carried about j
;l:T. passengers of all nationalities, a,
great number of these being women i
and children, as well as the Indian i
malls. Tills approximate figure u'
given by I lie captain; uccordlng to)
the company there were .ISIt pusscn-'.
gels. The officer In charge of the J
control of tickets was severely wound-
ed and taken to Dover. He is not '.u
a fll stale to furnish particulars.
Hail i Armament.
"She was not possessed of any
armament. The ercW consisted f
fifty-three men. From the start thej
speed was set at sixteen knits; after!
having passed one mile from Dunne-'
ness the captain beaded south, three-!
degrees east; the weather wus very
MASKED MEN HOLD
UP ROCK ISLAND TRAIN
IRY HOINIMI JOURNAL RRICIAL LRARIQ WIRf t
Muskogee, (Ik In, April C. Two
masked men held up and robbed the
passengers in the smoking car of Chi
cago, Rock Island & Faclfic passen-i
get- train No. 41, an the train was
leaving Howe, Oklu., tonight, and af
ter obtaining about $11 r, and four
watches, commanded the conductor to
stop the train to allow them to es
cape. Bosses were formed at Howe and
Red dak to pursue the robbers.
aeroplane warfuie.
.' i r.,.iv.foio- l'.Htlnh und French strong Russian positions, ami now are
(machines Thirtv-eight of the latter I attempting to flank the Riga positions
iwere brought to earth in air combats, j 'r"' the southeast.
Rumored in Washington Thaii'". to ncrim. j , 1,'n,m h0 ,h,,r i'""ltH - rr"
nUHIUreU 111 VVclblllllglUII Midi Ambli;BH(lor v.iK(, hlls flirwar(1,.,i (there is Utile t report except a eon
An FnMrt finworninoiiT Ro'- t i.. ... vu.,i,i. ,,, ...ii i tinimtion of mining operations and
t:,, llUit TkIIU lo PU f"und in the steamer Sussex, recently
neves not iraii is L-oiUi,1iimaK,,(1 by an explosion, which kined
onl On re Ii Inn- Ql-Znnlrl Datlra 'feveral persons and wounded some
anu i cio,,,6 ui.uuiu "Cinvi,Ampi,.(,nns Th PmI,aiwy , Loni,
.. lis credited with the belief that the
rw mornino journal flpcciAL LBAssD wiRii I tl came from a German torpedo.
Wasbinuion Aoril .ri.- In tlie ab- i Spain Protests to Germany.
sence of further news of fighting in j Spain bus sent
Mexico between the American forces Protesting against
and Villa, bandits, attention jf off;-'the Sussex
eiuls here today centered upon thel'ost
diplomatic aspects of the punitive ex
ENGLISH COJST IS
VISITED BY ZEPPELINS
Information of the war end state
depai'meuts regarding use of '.be
Mexijan railways to ship supplies lo
General Pershing was conflicting. Tib;
war department had no reports indi
cating that Cnrranza authorities, at
Juarez had received orders to adept
shipments from General Function.
Secretary Ionising, at the state depig
ment, however, said he understood
(such orders hud been issued. Mr.
"This war cannot last more than
"ne or two years," he said; "If It lasts
longer than that it will produce uni
versal bankruptcy."
Soores National Guard.
Senator - Chamberlain' arraignment
of the national Runrd's activities was
supported by Senators MeCumber anil
The Day in Congress
SENATE.
Met at noon.
Resumed debate on army bill.
Interstate commerce committee
voted to report child labor bill in
amended form.
Manufacturers urged labor com
mittee to approve legislation barring
prisojB-made goods from interstate
commerce.
Recessed at 6:0.' p. m. to noon
.Thursday.
iiorsK.
Met nt noon.
Judiciary committee recommended
eommittee of five to investigate con
tempt charges against 1'nlted States
Histrict Attorney Marshall of New
York,
-Naval committee voted to report fa
vorably senate bill for government
armor factory.
Judiciary subcommittee continued
investigation of beef packing matters.
Passed Heflin resolution for census
statistics on quantity of cotton used
in manufacture of explosives.
Knt hill to create a bureau of na
tional forests urged at hearing be
fore public lands committee.
Debate without action the Johnson
bill to authorize the federal govern
innt to nc, ept as a gift the homestead
ofLhraham Lincoln In Kentucky.
iVederal co-operation in improve
ment of Sacramento valley urged at
heating of Callfornians before flood
r-onirol committee.
Jdjnurned nf J:r5 p. m. until 11 a.
m. Irhursday. 1
Lansing also said he thought the dif
ficulty was physical, not political, and
wap due largely to the disorganized
condition of rolling stor k and road
bed of the Mexico Northwestern.
ObjiH-t lo Further Pursuit.
Some officials still were inclined
to connect the delay In permitting us3
of the railroads with a desire on the
part of Carranza to see the American
soldiers buck on their own territory.
Already, it is understood, de faoto
government officials on the border
have made informal Inquiries ns to
how much longer the expedition will
remain In Mexico and how much far
ther southward it expects to pene
trate. As legally the United State."
now is pursuing a "hot trail,' it wnui.)
occasion no great surprise, here If Car
ranza should suggest soon that the
trail had gotten "cold," rind question
the propriety of the United Stat'-w
proceeding farther.
Motor Service Ailiualc.
Immediate necessity for lengthen
ing General Pershing's lines of com
munication caused Secretary Baker to
rend telegre phlc orders torlay for 10S
nore motor trucks and two gasoline
i;inks. Thei 4 already are six compan
, n with 162 cars engaged in lines.
from Columbus. Secretary Baker
t. ted that he was perfectly satisfied
th t under "xisting conditions and
pr sent campaign plans the motor
sei Ice was at equate, without using
th railways.
IVrshi ig at Front.
G- neral Funs -jn forwarded a mes
sage from Ger.i ral Pershing stating
that the latter - onf erred Monday at
Prov lencia with Colonel Dodd. Provi
dence l about irty mil's north of
Guerr ro and "' twenty miles be
yond he southern nost end of motor
enmnu nioathm ii'i at Namlquipa.
Official believe G neral Pershing is
at the ront Of the tdvance lines and
that th ' expedition Is engaged ln
combing the countrj about Guerrero
without iiroeeelins in strength far
ther to the ou fc.
note to Germany I
the torpedoing of;
in which several Spaniards
their lives. j
A British patrol boat has picked up
off the Orkney islands, Scotland, thej
Brazilian steamer Sandanba de Gama.i
bound from Para, Brazil, for New j
York, with a cargo of rubber. As the,
steamer wan several thousand miles'
out of her course, the British are in
clined to the belief that she was at
tempting to run the blockade.
The German Imperial chancellor,
Dr. von Bethmann-Hnllweg, in out
lining the attitude of Germany before
the rclchslug, declared that any sug
gestions of peace on the basis of the
deHtruction of the Prussian military
power would make possible only one
answer the German sword. If Ger
many's adversaries desired to con
tinue the slaughter of men and the
devastation of Kurope, the guilt would
be theirs, he said.
He characterized ns "the silliest of
all the imputations" against Germany
the report that, at the en, of the
war, Germany would take measures j
against the American continent and
attempt to conquer Canada. j
With respect to Belgium, the chnn- j
cnllor said-
"We must create real guarantees
thai Belgium never shall be a Franco-
British vassal; never shall be used
as a military or economic fortifica
tion against Germany." ,
He declared that Germany must as
sume the sound evolution of the
Flemish rule and added that Germany
"anted neighbors with which collab
oration could be carried out to
mutual advantage.
(RV MORNINU JOURNAL tPffCIAL LIASCG WIRf
London, April (;1 a. lit.) A Zep
pelin attacked the northeast roast
Kngland about 5:50 o'clock Wednes
day night but was driven off by Ihe
anti-aircraft defenses. The official nnlei
announcement suys that some bombs i t,, .starboard
I passengers were on deck. j
! Suddenly, without tlie slightest;
warning, tlie captain, w ho was on t ho I
I bridge, saw before the port benni,
; sonic l.lu meters away, tlie track of :
in torpedo. II was now in.; j
jibe lime of Ibe disaster being i-xuctlvj
I registered by the slopping of tlHr,
i clocks on board tlie vessel. The sec
ond officer and deck officer who Wer),
on the bridge also distinctly saw the!
I orpedo.
Tiled lo I lodge Toi'M'ilo.
of i "With great presence of inliid. the
i captain ordered the helm hard apoi t,
'and slopped the starboard engine in
lo avoid the torpedo by turning
Those two orders were
(V WORN1N4 JOURNAL RRRR1AL LRARRA Wln
Columbus, N. M., April J. Threei
weeks of man-hunting through the;
desert am) mountains of Chihuahua
has totally changed the physical ap
pearance of the smart cavalrymen
who crossed the bonier under Colonel
George A. Dodd near OuRjertson'a
ranch. A vivid picture of the soldier
as they were four day ago was
brought to ColtimhiiH today In the. ar
rival from vfi front of a truck train
I which carried supplies to Colonel
jDiHld'H commnad.
, Men, whose shoes have been lac
erated by the stones of the mountain
and sands of the desert, ure wearing
Mexican sandals and sandcls madft
from the hides of beeves slaughtered
for their meat. Men whose, clothing
i has been torn into shreds by brushes
witli mi'squlte and cactus are wearing
such clothing as could be obtained
from Mexicans living along the route,
according to the stories told.
Itush tinier for lot Ill's.
Substantiating these stories a meg
sage came to military headquarter
here from General Pershing today re
questing that the extra kits, contain-
j lug extra clothing of the soldier of
jthe Seventh and Tenth cavalry regl
jrnents, the two regiments at the eic-
trenie front, lie rushed to them nt
once, '
A truck train, under the command
of Cap. (' H. Drake, consisting of
twenty-seven trucks, went to within
) seven fniles of Guerrero, its crew be
ing tlie first Americans to meet the
j troopers of the Seventh cavalry after
i j their engagement at tnnt town.
j SoblicrN Sliov Wear.
EvidenCC All TendS tO SIlOWl "The men were it nondescript look
.. ,iii t iii linK r'ow'1." ahl Captain Drake.
VeSSel WaS I OrpOdOed by ,'Thelr faces were cake, with gray ul
r o I ' M , kail dust; they had been without
German Submanne Nowir(.guir ran,.,,., Mr w, dv. ..
Sinks Norwegian Steamer.
Havre, April r. (!:fiH p. in.) A
German submarine has sunk the Nor
woglnn steamer Bans, a vessel of 1,
I'x, tons, In this Knglish channel.
Font of the crew are missing. Four-
i teen others wore saved.
SUSSEX DISASTE
E
BY PRESIDENT
Up to Berlin,
(RY MORNINQ JOURNAL IfCCIAL LlAdto WIRtl
Washington, April fi. -President
Wilson discussed with Secretary Lan
sing tonight the situation growing out
.rait und tobacco were beyond price,
and yet through their haggard dirti
ness tne men smiled with their eyes
ant t"ld of their resolute purpose
the getting of Villa."
Captain Drake also told of report
iirrcnt throughout the Guerrero
of the accumulation of evidence Indi-j ountry that the American troopers
obtained their Information that Villa
were dropped,
mation yet as
damage.
hut there is no inl'or
to the casualties or
pedo
1,200 Railroad Men Strike.
.Milwaukee, Wis.. April 5. Twelve
hundred repair men at the West Mil-
o uViin.w th.. r'lilenuo Mll-
, ', ' , . , i orinous
wuillvct, ft; ,-m. ckiii iituioini Mtui-n
today. The men demand an Increase
of 4 cents an hour over the present
wage of I'll r ents an hour.
executed immediately, us is proved by
the statements of the engineers of the
watch.
"The ship was beginning to swing
eating that German submarines were,1
responsible ror the numerous recent! had been wounded from an 'American
murine disasters. In which the lives j l'hysiclun taken captive by the bandit
of American citizens have been lost! hand and forced to treat the leader'
. .wounds. He asserted that he did tiot
mtaln-1 learn the name of this physician, who
or endangered.
Dispatches received today
ing the reports of the naval ultiiehes I was said to have been a, resident of
off, when, eight seconds after tlie tor-! at London and Paris regarding the on of Ibe tow ns tnrough which Ilia
lunl been seen, a teriil'lc I'Xtilo- explosion which damaged the I lilt Isb I ptisieu, aim uosr-riniM tn nouniiB an
TANGIBLE CLEWS
slon took place,-throwing; up an en- j steamer Sussex and other messages
oluinn of water. Ciilculnt-i regaining tne amicus upon mo in n
ing from the distance at which the '"b steamer Berwinduie ami the imrs i
torpedo first had n seen and the j Bengalrn, were before the. president.
lime which passed before the explo- I Sussi'x Tnrperloeo-. .
.., .........i t ii,.. ,,.r,.e,lii mint! Secretary Lansing declined to dl-
.imiii, lilt p,' , I,, , ,i... .11., ii-.,.... 1.,.! Atti.-ifl,.,i lihnt, ari..ii
tblrty-slx knot, (he ni.r-,"11- ' " " ..n......
.All reports liom aiiroan nave nun--again coi'iininng inn nam nun Hirer
.tilted Unit the evidence gathered
consisting nf a bullet through the
ankle and another lodged in the hip.
Villa Men Shoot High.
The returning truckmen were ablo
to give few details of the Guerrero
battle, but usserteii that all 'of th
TO TRAIN BANDIT
NOT YET f
have been
mill speed of a torpedo.
Ship Cut in Two.
"The ship was cut in two opposite
the bridge; the afterpurt, thanks I
Ul" sonilliy Ol on- uoiniii-ioir,, i ''"-; ,,, ,,u ,, ,,.... , ,., ,u,.,,h .mi
lled to float. ,,f ,1,,, InCii-niMii,,,, received nrilll It
j was complete. So far no Word has
Iconic from Germany In response to
by Villa on the second day following th
the attaches tended to prove that the .engagement. Troopers said that th
; Sussex was torpedoed,
I The secretary said. However,
jVitlista marksmanship In the rsnfrnsf-
- !RV MORNINO JOURNAL RRKCIAL LIABEU WIRf
Cheyenne, Wyo., April 5. Authori
ties early today were without tangi
ble clews us to Identity of the lone
bandit who last night robbed several
passengers on I'nion Pacific passen
ger train No. 1, westbound, a few min
utes after it pulled out of the station
here. Fifteen suspects were arrested
(luring tlie day, tint all except one,
Daley is
cxplana-
their ij0ll Daley, were released
j hold pending satisfactory
KANSAS CITY POLICE
TO BE INVESTIGATED
IRT MORNIhf JOURNAL RRICIAL Lf ARID WIRtl
Kansas City', April .1. An Immedi
ate investigation of published r hurges
against the police department hero In
connection with yesterday's munici
pal election In which George H. Kd
wards, republican, was elected mayor
by a plurality of about 8,300 votes
over Mayor Henry L. Jost, democrat,
is urged in a resolution adopted to
day by the public affairs committee
of the commercial club of Kansas
City.
Hunker Commits Suicide.
Baltimore, Md.. April 6. Wilson T
Hey ward, head of the banking house
of Heyward & Co., was found dead in
his home here tonight with a bullet
in his brain. Receiver were named
for hi business on February 9.
ti-m of his presence at Coriett June-;
tion, near hf-re, when the robbery
was committed. The authorities r-x-
nrcssed the belief that he might havei
information concerning the Robber's
idenl ity.
A t"tal of $.ri,.riilO In rewards has
been offered for the capture of the
robber. Of this, the Vnion Pacific j
headquarters in Omaha offered $.1,-1
000. Ijite today 'the state of Wyom
ing added $.100 to the reward.
The authorities claim to have es
tablished definitely that the robber
left the train at Coriett Junction,
where at first it was salt) no trace of
his leaving the train was discovered.
Five men passengers were robbed
of $f,(i7 and a gold watch, today's re-.
ports of the booty taken disclosed.
One victim, H. O. Bunlin, of liramte,
Wyo., nail) he could easily identify the
highwayman. Buntln engaged the
robber in conversation, to which fact
he attributed his loss of only $2.
Buntln said the robber overlooked
'$1011 in another pocket.
"(in dock several passengers who
happened to be on the poll, side saw
the torpedo when quite, close to the
ship, one of Ihcni even telling bis
neighbor to 'look at that great fish
swimming Inward the ship.'
"Lverybody who happened to be In
the bows disappeared with that por
tion of the ship, which was engulfed:
among others, the passengers on the
fore dock and in the first-class sa
loon. The men of the. crow who were
in the forecastle, the lookout In the
bows, anil the lookout In the crow's
nest on the foremast also disappeared.
No Panic Aboard.
"The captain, who hud been
knocked down by the column of water
resulting from the explosion, ordered
the crew' to their emergency
iTbe firemen und engineers went (o
their stations ufter having stopped the
port engine and closed the draught
plates of the furnaces. At the same
lime' the wireless operator tried to
j Ambassador Gerard's inquiry at the
foreign office,
I First official information regarding
jthe attack upon the bark Bengalrn
wiir receive, by the stale department
I today. It was in the form of a dls
j patch from Consul Frost at Qiicons-
lown, who reported that the vessel,
'tarrying two Americans, hail been
sunk by shell fire after having re
jecived "ample warning" and that
there were no casualties. Conse
quently, In this rase, at leasl, officials
see no ground for complaint by the
I nil.-. I Slates.
Now I'p lo Germany.
It became known during the day
stations. I "1HI "" ii'iniiiusi rarion coiisuiers inar
the enure situation now binges upon
Germany's attitude in regard to the
Sussex and other vessels about whicli
inquiries have been made. The of
ficial view was re presented us being
sen,i out distress signals, but without I
success, the antennae Inning fall.-n
with the foremast. The crew pro-
ji eetled to their stations to launch the
I lifeboats anil rafls (there were six
j lifeboats capable of carrying 1 S 4 per
sons, 'i mrts capable or carrying zi
persons, anil In addition X 1 6 life bolts.
It appears from deposition made that
these life bells Were on the spare
'lock and that a number of them w.-re.
in bad condition: bin the crowding on
dock nt the time mi, tie It very diffi
cult to move about.
Piece of Tor-rl, f ound.
"A number of pieces of the tor
pedo were found on board the Hustex,
some of them having been handed
over to the American delegation,
which had proceeded lo Boulogne.
that it Is for Germany to demonstrate
the value of the
Culled Stales.
promises given to the
SCHILLER ARRESTED
ON CHARGE OF PIRACY
RV MORNINU JOURNAL RPKCIAL LIABIO WlRBj
New- York, April ,1. I'mler arret
on a charge of piracy, Clarence
Hudson, known otherwise as Ernest
Schiller, was lodged in tlie Tombs to
night pending bis removal to Dela
ware for trial for the seizure at sea
of the British freight steamer Matop
po. He was taken into custody nt
Itellevue hospital upon a warrant is
sued by William G. Mahaffy, federal
commissioner in Delaware, .
I
iii,-,i
all of the shots going high. Much
comment was expressed upon the fact
Dial the American soldier most seri
ously wounded, a man who was shot
six times through fleshy parts of his
body, was on u small promontory In
the rear of the rest of the command.
With but two rrays' ra lions wtion
they left the bonier, the troops push
ed steadily forward day and night,
never even stopping to await food,
bill trusting to the country to pro
vide them with sustenance, according
to the hIoiU-s brought hero. Finally,
leaving all lines of communication fav
behind and reaching u country In
which agriculture had been ut il
j standstill for five years because of
j civ il strife, the soldiers were forced
to depend almost, exclutiively upon
j such beef and game ns they could
j slaughter. One truckman even as
' sorted that a soldier had told him
lili.it ui.mii et (hi, murehriu wpro lllllllo
at such speed that, the, men had not
time to stop and cook the moat and
as a result ate it raw. This story,
however. Is not generally credited
lure.
Hard on Horses.
I Despite the orders to "spate notn
I Ing but hot-so flesh," the march ha
been exceedingly hard on. the anl
j iiiuls attar-bod to the command, ne-
cording to today's arrivals. , iDeiul
American cavalry horses, worn out
and killed in the relentless pursuit of
Villa, were said " to be strewn alontr
the trails in the district south of
Nanilquipu. In fact- it was asserted,
the command has lost so muny horses
that, fully one-half of It ha boon
obliged to continue the search for
Villa without mount. Th soldier
traveling- us they have, with every
ounce of surplus equipment elimlnat-
