"' ,i i"TP J'7 -W
". :t"T' .'lVt
V
WEATHER FORECAST:
Partly cloudy; colder.
(Full Report on Page Two.)
HOME
EDITION
NTJMBEB 8862.
WASHINGTON, THTJBSDAY EVENING-, APRIL 0, 91G.
PRICE ONE CENT.
'yt v ; "
IBY
FOUND
II
L
REQUEST
OF
US
BANKERS
Neither Counsel for Officials
Nor Government Will Dis
cuss Its Nature.
MUCH SPECULATION CAUSED
Lawyers for Bank to Fight for
Bill of Particulars on Per
jury Charges.
48 PERISH ON LINER
LONDON, April 6. Forty-eight persons lost their lives through
the sinking of the British liner Zent by a submarine.
The Zent was torpedoed and sent to the bottom without warning.
The captain and ten survivors of the crew of the Zent were
landed at Queenstown this morning. They agree tnat the ship
was torpedoed without warning.
The Zent listed ''badly and b:gan sinking immediately after the
torpedo struck.
The controversy between official of
the Rlggs National Dank and the Dis
trict Attorney, precipitated yesterday
by an appeal of the bank officers to
the court for a speedy trial on pending
perjury Indictment. Is today cloaked In
an air of mystery that has converted
Interest In the outcome of the legal
battle Into curiosity concerning one par
ticular phase of the case.
Financial and legal circles are specu
lating today over the nature of a re
quest made of the district attorney by
counsel for the bank In the course of
correspondence relative to expediting
the trials of Charles C. Glover, presi
dent of the Rlggs: William J. Flather.
the vice president, and H. H. Flather,
former cashier, on the perjury Indict
ments returned last October.
"Very Unusual Request."
In a prepared statement Issued last
night. District Attorney Laikey said
that when It was suggested to him on
Janusrv 6. last, that the defendants de
sired the earliest possible trial, "the
suggestion was only Incidental to a
VERY UNUSUAL REQUEST ON THE
PART Ojr THE DEFENDANTS, the
carrying out of which prevented, until
February 4. even an approximation of
tho tlmo of the trial."
Roth fir. Laakey and counsel for the
Indicted bankers declined to reveal
the request but Mr "Laakey intimated
today that this reqouat will provo a
feature of thn answer which he will
make In the District Supreme Court
tomorrow to tho motions flld yester
day by counsel for the bankers.
When asked what the reqeust was,
he replied:
"The reqeust wil bo embracedjn my
answer tomorrow I do not care to
nii: nii o n.n.cnt wt i-iiir II lo
tloyV J.- J. Partington on of the counsel
for. thei-bankors; wotihrnot dtal'nss
the nature of .h"e roqeust further than
to say that it was not unusual, being
frequently made in both criminal and
civil proceedings.
Ask Bill of Particulars.
Neither representatives of tho Gov
ernment, nor the attorneys for the bank
are Inclined to discuss the case today.
Others close to the bankers, however.
say that counsel for the indicted men
will make no particular fight for an
earlier dato for the trials. May 8 hav
ing been already set, but will bend their
efforts to obtaining through the aid of
tne court a bill or particulars on which
inn inaicimems are Dasea.
The bank officers are deeply concern
ed over a possible refusal by Comp
troiier or me jurrency Williams of a
renewal of the bank's charter at Us
expiration on July 1. They claim they
have reason to believe he will refuse re
newal unless the trials shall have been
held and the officials acquitted.
IMstrlct Attorney Laakey promised
the bill of particulars, according to the
affidavits filed by the bankers yester
day, as long ago as February 11, but
has not yet carried out his promise.
Under State Charter.
Should he delay much longer, those
who are claiming to be familiar with
the bankers' side of the case, contend
that counsel for the bank officers would
be compelled to ask for a continuance
when the case Is called on May 8 In
order to prepare their side.
This, It Is said, with the court calen
dar prepared, would mean that the
earliest date possible for a hearing un
der the continuance would be some
(Continued on Second Page.)
Suffrage Leaders
To Use "Big Stick"
Will Hold "Balance of Power
Convention" at Chicago. Claim
5,000,000 Votes.
Woman suffrage leaders here are plan
ning to use the big stick. The 6,000.000
votes which women say they will cast
at the coming Presidential elections Is
the stick. Leaders here today, working
on the theory that these votos might
easily constitute the balance of political
powor. announced plana for holding a
''balance of power convention" at Chi
cago at the same time the Republican
and Progressive conventions are In ses
sion. Work of establishing branches of the
"balance of power" organisations
throughout the United Statea began to
day, under the auspices of tho Con
gressional Union.
The suffrage leaders frankly admitted
the convention was to be a club to whip
candidates Into line. They said thoy
would not ba directly affiliated with
any party, but would favor a Presiden
tial nominee who would give them the
strongest assurance that the suffrage
amendment would receive favorablo action.
Colored Diplomat
Averts New Crisis
Prizes Are Awarded
In limes Competition
For Window Displays
Stores With Best Exhibits Are Selected By Judges.
Announcement of Winners Selected By Read
ers Will Be Delayed Owing to Vast
Number of Entries.
PROOF U-BOAT SANK WRGINIA CAR MEN
SUSSEX SENT HERE REPLY TO LOCKOUT
BY PIS EMBASSY BY PLANNING STRIKE
Fragments of Shell Compare
Exaotly With Seotions of
German Torpedoes.
TEXT OF REPORT HELD UP
Situation Now So Grave Offi
cials Decline to Discuss
Submarine Issue.
Organiser of New Union
Of Virginia Car Men
Union. Employes Meet at Balls
ton to Determine on Course
to Follow.
OVER 300 MEN INVOLVED
Washington and Old Dominion
Workers Join.in Washington
and Virginia Demands.
With praise from the merchants, from the thousands of Wash
ingtonians who have entered the contest for tho cash prizes and
from the judges appointed to make the awards, The Washington
Times Window Display Contest is ended and the five prize winners
are:
Class A. King's Palace.
Class B. D. J. Kaufman.
Class C. Whitmore, Lynn & Alden Company.
Class D. W. B. Moses &. Sons.
Class E. Shaffer, the Florist.
The announcement of the winners of the $10 cash prizes will
not be made for a day or two for the simple reason that so many
readers of The Times sent in lists of the windows they considered
the best dressed that it is impossible to classify them in one day.
A force of clerks has been at work on the coupons ever since
the contest closed last night at 7 o'clock. It is expected that there
will be some announcement ready tomorrow.
KEEN INTEREST DISPLAYED.
Never In the history of the city has
there been so much Interest displayed
In the merchants and their wares a
has been demonstrated. In this con-'
test. The Interest Is re'garded as of a
most practical character because the
comments of the readers of Tho
Times as noted on, tho coupons that
have so far been examined. Indicate
a very clear understanding; of what
the Window Display competition
inear.s
r in making their awards of the prizes
to tho Ave competitors who won, the
judges had their difficulties. They were
called' upon to use fractions In deter-
mi run ins standing of some of the
conrpetltors. And the rot was so close
that they have Insisted in oivln hon.
.cm bio nentlon to several merchants
win isuca or. a prise 0 a very narrow
margin.
The judges were unanimous in their
statement that the window display of
Whltmoro, Lynn & Alden Co.. the Jew
elers, of 1225 F street, was the most
artistic and efficient of all those ex
amined. This window won the prise In
Class C. The Judges gave this display
85 points out of the 100 that would mean
periecuon. ine judges were also unanl
(Continued on Pare Nine.)
HNEOH
TAKEN N
T
PLEA 15 NOT GUILTY GERMAN ATTACK
SOPER TRIAL BEGINS;
Huckster Arraigned in Rockville
For Killing of Harry Latti
mer by Motor Truck.
Paris Admits Advance North
west of Verdun French
Gain in Cares Woods.
One Carnegie peace medal for Eddlo
Havoy, please. Eddie averted an Inter
national complication today.
Sir Cecil 8prlng-Klce, British ambas
sador, was heading Into Counselor folk's
onice In the Stato Department.
"i'ahdon. suh." said tho colored mes
senger. Kddlo; "Mlatah Polk Is busy
for a moment, suh."
lie steered Sir Cecil Into an adjoining
room Just In .time to avoid Count von
Bernstortt, German ambassador, com-
In. ntir nf t)..ll' Mfrlja
. wh- a.- v.a m vmiww
Trial of William O. Boper, a huckster,
on a chargo of manslaughter as a re
oi.ir r th. Vllltnr or Harry A. 1-a.ttl-
mer by a motor truck at Drummond
November 24, was begun today at Rock
vllie. , w .
Honor was arraigned before Judges
Edward C. Peter and Glenn II. Worth
lngton and pleaded not guilty to the
rhnriri.
iin rinriented bv Attorneys John
A. Garrett, of Rockvlllo. and Leo Wein
berg, of Frederick. State's Attorney
Albert M. Boulc has Attorney W. O.
Spates associated with him as assistant
ntnai.riitnr.
Following tho defendant's plea, the
selection of the Jury was begun. The
following residents of Montgomery
county were selected as members of thd
Jury;
William S. Caulflold, foreman; Leonl
das W. Adamson, Bcnonl D. Allnutt,
William E. Roberson, Robert I.. Tol
sor., James Halpin. James F. Turner,
Thadlus T. Bussard. George E. Nichol
son, William McVnln, Olay Edwards,
and Thomas I Lelchlelder.
After tho selection of the Jury the
court took a recess until this afternoon,
when the opening statements of the two
slde3 will be made and the taking of
testimony will begin,
Soper was accompanied to court by
his wife, and several relatives of I.attl
mer also were In court to testify or
hear the ovldcnce.
Sexton Hangs Self
In Church Belfry
Mind Affected by 31 Years of
Solitary Watch at St. Paul's,
Aged Man Ends Life.
mpiw YORK. April 6. The rope which
for thirtv-one vcara he had pulled to
Invoke the volco of tho giant bronze bell
In historic St. Paul's chapel was Sex
ton Phllir. O. Walter's death Instrument
today.
High In fit. Paul's belfry tower, where
tho roar and disorder of Broadway and
Fulton streets below was stilled. Wal
ter's body was found hanging from a
noose.
His friends sav tho loneliness of his
,gil at the church affected Walter's
mind. He was sixty years old. and for
thirty-cnb years rang out St. Paul's
call to services.
rtt. Pau"a was Walter's nrldo nnd life.
St. Paul's Is the oldest church 'n Naw
Yr.rk. George Washington onco tvjrhit.
ed there, and In 1776 part of his Inau
gural ceremonies whtre held there.
BERLIN, April 6. German
troops have captured Haucourt,
ten miles from Verdun, as well
as a French point of support
east of the village, the war of
fice announces. The Germans
took 542 prisoners.
PARIS, April 8. German troops reach
ed the village of Haucourt last night In
a series of violent assaults on the
French front northeast of Verdun, the
war office admits.
Heavy German attacks against the
village of Bethlncourt were repulsed.
The German advance was offset by an
Important French victory In the Cares
wood fighting. The French carried the
entire wood, taking fifty prisoners.
On the east bank of the Meuae, two
German attacks against French post
tlons In Calllette wood, south of Douau
niont fort, were repulsed, the enemy
suffering frightful losses.
Battle Line Lengthens.
The lull In the fighting northwest of
Verdun was broken by the Germans late
yesterday afternoon. The battle
spread from tho eastern section of the
Argonne to the Cares wood, northeast
of Esnes.
The French first attacked In the Ar-
8o n ne, Inflicting heavy losses on the
ermans and taking twenty prisoners.
The Germans then charged French posi
tions east or the Argonne sector and
the engagement gradually spread to the
Avocourt woods, south of Malancourt.
French artillery turned a heavy bom
bardment on tho German positions in
tho wood, pounding with pleciu of all
sixes, with the Germans vigorously re
plying.
Germans Decimated.
Toward nightfall the Germans sud
denly emerged from their positions with
simultaneous attucks on the village of
Bethlncourt, to the. east of Malancourt
and against Hnucourt village, south of
Malancourt.
French guns stutloned on Hill 301 and
around Esnes decimated the advancing
Germs ns with a terrible fire. Jn spite
of their lofcsca they pressed forward
and succeeded In reaching Haucourt
village. The village Is now under Are
of French artillery.
Meanwhile French troops, following
up an effective artillery preparation,
charged the German position In Cares
wood, Tho Germona were swept out of
the forest, toning fifty prisoners, la ad
dition to killed end wounded.
Fragments of a torpedo shell picked
from the deck of the English Channel
steamer Sussex, after the explosion
which sent that vessel to the bottom,
comparo exaotly with sections of Ger
man torpedoes captured by the French
government.
This Is the startling evidence con
tained In a report received by the State
Department from the American naval
attache in Paris, according to reliable
information obtained todmy.
That the evidence has added tremend
ously to the gravity of the situation Is
shown by tho fact that every effort has
been made by officials of the depart
ment to prevent the text of the report
from becoming public.
Lansing to See Wilson.
Secretary ot State Lansing, who Is
refusing to discuss any phase of the
submarine controversy, arranged today
for a long conference this afternoon
with the President. Although he Indi
cated beforehand that it was not his
purposo to discuss the submarine Issue,
It is regarded as certain that the sub
ject wilt come up In the conversation.
Officials of the Administration are ap
parently of the opinion that the time la
rapidly approaching when the .United
States will either have to Insist on a
modification ot Germany's new under
sea campaign at the cost of a threat
to sever diplomatic relations, or will
have to withdraw from the previous
stand It has taker, that submarine war
fare must be conducted In accordance
with the established rules of civilised
warfare.
Hour after hour the cables are bring
ing to the Stle Department reports of
more ships sunk without warning. While
in none of the coses has thera been
absolute proof that a German sub
marine has teen seen before an attack
was made, the accumulation of cases Is
such -as to raok It almost Certain that
the u-boats are at work.
Fifty Lires Lost.
On the heels of, the press reports to
day from London that the Elder liner
Zent had been torpedoed without warn
ing with the loss of 46 lives, tho State
Department got word from the Ameri
can consul at Havre. France, that the
Norwegian ship Baus had been tor
pedoed twelve miles off that port with
the loss of four lives. In neither case
Is there evidence, that Americans were
on board.
Count von Bernstorff, the German
ambassador. Is making no effort to see
Secretary Lansing, and. volunteer any
explanations. Apparently he has re
ceived his cuo from Berlin to keep mum
and appear to know nothing.
The position of Germany seems to be
that the burden of proof Is on the
United States, and that so long as the
cubmarlnes work under surface no proof
can be obtained.
Roosevelt Will Be
'Put Up1 Tomorrow
Republican Subcommittee Will Be
Presented With His
Name.
CHICAGO. April 6. "How about
Roosevelt?" Is tho flat-footed quesUon to
be hurled Into the meeUng of the sub
committee of the Republican national
committee here tomorrow, G. O. P. chief
tains admitted today.
The colonel's announcement from Oys
ter Bay has upst plans o fthe Repub
licans, who hoped to name a temporary
chairman for the national convention
tomorrow.
Despite tho colonel's statement, Fred
W, Upham, national committeeman from
Illinois, declared today he did not be
lieve Roosevelt really Is a candidate.
"I do think." said Upham, "that some
one saUsfactory to the colonel may be
selected, and I think Roosevelt will be
consulted."
Chairman Hllles and other members ot
the subcommittee will arrive In Chicago
tomorrow.
The Washington-Virginia Railway
Company "locked but" forty or more of
Its motormen and conductors today be
cause they belonged to a union.
The "lock out" was literal, the doors
ot the barns being barred to all em
ployes who admitted they belonged to
Division 6M Amalgamated Association of
Street and Electrlo Railway Employes
of America.
The reply of the "locked out" employes
was a coll for a meeting in Pythian
Temple In Ballston. Va., "for the pur
pose of calling a strike against the com
pany," according to the spokesman for
the unionists.
The meeting was cauea to oraer snorc-
Miss Jane Addams
Is Seriously III
iv hfnr 2 o'clock this atternon by L.
A. Stern, an organiser for the American
Federation of Labor. ,..,,
Resin Orr, who organized the Virginia
car men, and who also organized the
Washington traction employes, was
scheduled to mske the principal address.
Anticipated Strike.
Officials of the company said this aft
ernoon that they had anticipated a
strike and the service would not be
affected. They declared they had suf
ficient men to man their cars and main
tain their regular schedules.
They reiterated their statement that
only a small percentage of the force is
dissatisfied with the Present scale .of
wages and hours, and that these dis
satisfied men have been discharged.
The Washington-Old Dominion Com
pany became Involved in the grievances
today when a committee of its employes
presented demands for reducUon In
hours and Increases In wages. ,
n While the Washlngton-Vtolnla Com
pany Insists only forty or nftyof Its 33
men are Involved. Organizers Stern and
Or" said per cent of the employes are
unionized.
Nearly BW Men, Affected. ,
Nearly -aoa-Buloyes of-the Washing
ton and Old Dominion Company are af
tt& bv the demands presented today.
a shorter hours and more pay are de-
n-.nueu " " """"-'" '.m.
men. conductors, ubkiucu, v.-.......,
shopmen, and other employes.
The Washington-Old Dominion system
Is much larger than the washlngton
vir.mii.. tu lines extend to Great
Falls and Bluemont. and almost as
much freight business is handled as
.....to.- Thn steam division covers
about forty miles, and the electrlo about
Today's demands apply to the freight
employes as well as men In the pas
senger service, and to the engineers ana
firemen In the steam division.
W. B. Emmert. general superintendent
of tho Washlneton-Old Dominion Com
pany, tnla afternoon said he had receiv
ed the demands of the men, drawn up In
the forn. of an agreement, which tho
employes want the company to sign.
Clerks Balloting
For Unions Head
Voting by Federal Employes Will
Be Continued Until To
morrow Night.
Balloting for permanent officers of
the ' Federal Employes' Union, which
began yesterday, continued today and
will end at midnight tomorrow,
At that hour the polls will be closed
and counting will be begun by the elec
tion Judges. Announcement of the,
permanent officers' names will be made'
as early Saturday as the count can be
nnlshed.
The balloting for officers continued
spirited today, there being considerable
friendly rivalry among the various de
partments for the positions of honor.
However the officers are selected, each
department of the Government will
have representation In the administra
tion through the executive committee.
The nominees for president are H. M.
McLarln, now serving as temporary
executive, and who la employed In the
War Department; F. A. Btrgfeld, a
Treasury Department employe, and Jo
seph L. Rhodes, of the Department of
Agriculture. Supporters of candidate
McLarln said tne prestige given him
by the temporary presidency was stand
ing him In good stead and they looked
for an easy victory for him.
I
. HtikiKMiH
sssssssssssssBBsQjrPlfWg IIsbbbbbbbbbbbH
HBPwMH
L. Ai oxERN.
MH con
WANTS U. S. TROOPS
FOR UNIVERSAL
TRANSFERS TO
FORCE MERGER
Citizens' Federation Delegate
Tells Commission of Plan
For Railroads.
ASKS IMMEDIATE ACTION
W. McK. Clayton Thinks Mis
take Would Be Made in
Awaiting Valuation.
.$.
TO ME MEXICO
Chief Border Agent of De Facto
Government Declares It Is
Useless for Army to Stay.
Precarious Condition Makes Her
Cancel Trip to Peace
Conference.
NEJW YORK. April 6,-Mlss Jane Ad
dams, noted Chicago social worker, is
suffering from tuberculosis of the kid
ney and is in a precarious state of
health, though her condition shows some
Improvement at present, Miss Emlhr
Ureene Balch declared before she sailed
today to sit as an alternate for Miss
Addams at the Ford peace tribunal In
Stockholm. -
"Miss Addams is now undergoing a
course of treatment for an attack of
tuberculosis of tho kidney, with diabetic
complications," said Miss Balch. "Her
health Is In a precarious condition, but
It Is much better than It has been. It
Is hoped that a few more months of
rest and treatment will enable her to
make the journey to Stockholm."
Miss Balch, who Is a professor of eco
nomics and sociology at Wcllesley Col
lege, said she Jiad been authorized to
make this statement for Miss Addams,
wno wisnea o aispei any further con
Jscture about rsports of her Illness.
Ford Leads Smith
In Primary Fight
EL PASO. April 6 Consul Garcia,
Carranza official along the border, today
declared himself In favor of tho United
States troops withdrawing from Mexico,
Garcla'a views Is believed here to re
flect those of the Carranza government.
"The American expedition has achlov.
ed IW purpose of breaking Villa's
strength and scattering his followers,"
said Garcia. "It Is not necessary to
capture Villa to make the expedition a
success. It would be useless to have
thoussnds of men pursue him, fts It may
i take an Indefinite time to capture him.
"Villa can be captured more easily by
offering a big reward. There Is no
reason In my opinion for the American
army pursuing the campaign further."
No Official Confirmation
of Troops Leaving Mexico
Reports, given widespread circulation,
that the American forces may be with
drawn from Mexico without accomplish
ing the primary purpose the capture of
Villa were received with alienee In of
ficial circles today.
Secretary Lansing said ho bad not
been advised of any change In the orig
inal plans of the campaign, which were
to capture Villa. He referred inquirers
to Uie War Department.
Secretary Baker said he could not
discuss the diplomatic phases of the sit
uation. He referred Inquirers to the
State Department.
Rumors of changes In plans grew out
of the delay In obtaining permission
from Carranza for tho use of the Mexi
can railways to take In supplies to Gen
eral Pershlnga base.
Negotiations over the protocol with
Carranza, apparently, are deadlocked.
One report gaining grounds Is that Car
ranza desires to restrict the zone of
operations of the American forces, now
uruwiiiB: near mu uuraiiKu aiuiu line.
If he has given any Intimation to the
United States that he objects to the con
tinued campaign of the American army
there is no official verification.
Congress Delegate
For D. C. Favored
Pomercne Thinks Senate Also
Should Have Local Rep
resentative.
Further Indications were given to
day that the judiciary subcommittee
of the Senate District Committee, of
which Senator Pomerene is the head,
will report In favor of tho Polndoxter
bill for a District delegate in tho
House.
The subcommittee held n meeting
and discussed the bill at length. It did
not complete consideration but Kot
DETROIT, Mich., April 6. Solectlon of
2T-"h7M .n?,htin- fV""" ?,n f I P"tly through tho measure and ad
Michigan Republicans Is generally con
ceded today,
Mourned with the understanding It
l.nt flKures from MonfUv' nrim.rvl would meet early next week
show the pacifist leading Senator Wll-' Senator Pomcrono's suggestion that
11am Alden Smith by nearly 3,600 votes, the bill bo modified to provide for a
wlfH nnlv Alvnn .mull wiiml .. n n dAl.n... httl. In li.. ...i .. .
. ...... ....... . .. ......... vwM....a hiiu "v. ..w.., ,,, iiiiU3u mm Dunmn wna
number of precincts In several other brought un. but there was not Hiirflrint
counties unreported. The vote was tlmo ta discuss it nt length.
Ford, 56.121; Smith, 61,634. Senator Pomcreno holds that tho DIs-
With the decision apparently In Ford's trlct is entitled to a dolcgute In cuch
favor, politicians are speculating on the branch ot Congress,
effect of the vote. Ford has declared The Chamberlain suffrage amendment
repeatedly that ho Is not a candidate was not considered. Probabilities are
and will make no use whatever of tho that this measure will not receive fmor-
Mlchlgan delegation of thirty to the Re- ablo contldcrutlon at this session. It is
publican convention. ; the feeling of some of tho subcommittee
Despite Ford's flat assertion that that thcro Is not sufficient time to dls-
under no circumstances will be consent poes of it.
to seek office, there continues to bo
soma apprehension among nrennrnl. Co..- 1 J,ia I ,.
ness advocates, who fear that hh ul J-lVa luai Ull
"To issue without waiting tho
completion of the valuations an
order requiring the issuance of
free universal transfers would bo
the quickest and most effective
method of securing the consolida
tion of the street railway com
panies." This suggestion was offered by
William McK. Clayton, chairman
of the committee on public utili
ties of the Federation of Citizens'
Associations at a conference with
the Public Utilities Commission
today to consider a merger of tho
street railway companies and other
transportation problems.
ANSWER 'TO NEWMAN.
It was made in answer to the request
ot Commissioner Newman that he stat
what he considered tho most practicable
method of bringing about merger.
Mr. Clayton argued that under th
act of 1891, 'providing that every street
railway' company whose lines connect
shall Issue reciprocal transfers, the com
mission 'has power to Immediately .tssua
such order. The act has never been an
forced because it carries no penalty.
Ihc public utilities act. however, Jt
was pointed out by Mr. Clayton, pro
vides for the enforcement of all ita pro
visions as well as of other laws relat
ing to the public utilities.
under tne pudiic uuuues net, morn
fore, Mr. Clayton said, the act of 185
could be enforced. He directed atten
tion to a case of the Bright wood Rail
road Company against the Metropolitan
Hallway Company, involving trackage
arrangements. In which the latter com
pany, which was the predecessor of the
VVabhington Railway and Electlrc Com
pany, admitted the validity Of the law
of U94. and that the transfers should
be free.
Is Not Bound.
The suggestion was made by Com
missioner Brownlow that the Washing
ton Railway and Electric Company
would not be bound by the action of
Its predecessor. Anticipating an appeal
to the courts, Commissioner Newman
said that whether an order for free uni
versal transfers was based on tho act of
1KI4 or on tho public utilities act, the
courts would be called upon to decide
whether It was a confiscatory act.
Mr. Clayton declared, In answer to
this, that in view of the strong public
opinion In favor of universal transfers
ho did not believe the railway com
panies would appeal to the courts.
Commissioner Brownlow pointed out
that the valuations now being estab
lished might result In an order for a
reduced fare if It were shown that
the companies could operate profitably
under such conditions.
The commission gave no indication
that It would depart from its original
Intention not to take up the questions-
of universal transfers until the
completion of the valuations, but
manifested great Interest in Mr. Clay
ton's suggestion regarding the pro
posed merger. .
Mr. Clayton also urged that the com
mission give attention to the "speed
ing. up" of schedules. The public, he
said, is partially responsible for delay
In the movement of the street cars by
falling to leave the cars promptly.
Legislation Suggested.
As a means of relieving congested
conditions during rush hours, ho sug
gested that Government employes be
required to report at different hours.
Commissioner Brownlow said that as
this la a matter Involving fifteen de
partments, legislation might be needed
to enforce such an ordr. The mer
chants also, ho said, might oppose the
change on the ground that it would
necosttate a re-arrangement of hours
for their employes.
Mr. Clayton urged tho abolition of the
flrc-stopi In tho interest of Improved
schedules und tlmo saving.
Tho installation of electrical devices
at the points of Intersection between tho
street car line. nnd fire apparatus
loutcs would meet the requirements, he
said, and result in tho saving of much
time.
Complaint wan mado also by Mr.
Clayton of lack of ventilation In the
ccntcr-cntranco cars and the dust nui
sance. Tho companies, he said, should
be compelled to sprinkle tho.r tracks.
Others present at tho conference were
Evan It. Tucker, li. A. Edwards, Don
ald Mefherson. and Dr. L.. U. Wultcr.
friends may enter him In new nl(i.
Ford's name, they point out. Is alrendy
entered on tne Nebraska primary ticket
In opposition to Senator Cummins of
Iowb. Thre is time for the Ford
forces to jump into the tight In Mary
land, California, Texas, New Jersey,
Montana, and FsnnsylvanUu
Torpedoed Norse Ship
IIANHIC. Ap'll . An unnamed Nor
wrsiaii steamer hns been sunk in the
Cliennel. with tho loss of four lues,
s'ourtssn of th craw were saved.
One Killed, Eight Hurt
In New Zeppelin Raid
LONDON, April 6. One person was
killed nnd eight Injured In last nlgth'r
Seppelln raid on England, the flfth
of the prrs.ent week, the war "office
announced tills afternoon
A single Zeppelin visaed the northeast
coast, ltu approach was reported half
an hour before It reached the coast, and
tho raider wiis warmlv welcomed by
coast iiatterles of antlalrrraft guns.
Thn Zeppelin was ro liberally bom
barded that It turned and fled within
fifteen mlnutss after reaching the coast.
