IB H
I Todays Metal Prices - 7R ft iV SV-wXvVVV 4 P. M. CITY EDITION I
f TATONS II llrlP IflllPTI vlrlllllrll II twelve pages
1 copper firm, electrolytic, nearby, i n ' ' Vk LV WEATHER Utah: Fair Tonight jM
I nominal, $28.00S28.50; June and lat- B ' and Flday; Not Much Change In H
er, $27.00$27.75. &J '""l. Temperature. H
FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. " H
. . : , H
i Forty-sixth Year-No, 83. Price: Five Cents. OGDEN CITY, UTAH, THURSDAY EVENING, APRIL 6, 1916. , Knterc aa Second Cla,, Matter nt the Postornce. Caen, HUH. "
General Francisco Villa Again Surrounded I
s- and Capture is Considered Imminent I
! ADVANCE CAVALRY DETACHMENTS
i Hill II l IkAII OF THF RAVIlrn
I1U1 UIi inilL Ui I ML Miiullu
( Americans Already Are Far South of Satevo Governor of
Chihuahua Reports Bandits Encircled by Constitutional
ist Troops Twenty Apache Chiefs Start for Persh
ing's Headquarters Eager to Trail Down Hated
j Mexican Outlaw Man Hunters Sure
of Success.
; Mexico City, April 6. General Gutierrez reported to the
I war department today that the capture of Francisco Villa with-
j in a very short time was certain. He said constitutionalist
; forces were again reported to have located Villa and surround-
; ed him. It is also reported that a combined force of constitu-
l tionalist troops from the state of Jalisco, Aguas Calientes and
Zacatecas is closing on General Bracamontes who, with a
large force of Villa cavalry, has been located near Juchipila, in
I southern Zacatecas.
'. . ,
Washington, April 6. Secretary Lansing today flatly
I denied that there was any ground whatever for the reports that
the withdrawal of American troops from Mexico was being
i contemplated.
: San Anlonlo, Texas, April 6. The
J most advanced cavalry detachments
) engaged in running down Villa -were
( beyond communication today, and at
: Colonel Funston's headquarters it was
believed they were already far
' ' south of Satevo, from whence trails
J extend towards Parral. Only unoffi-
v clal and conflicting reports as to
' Villa's whereabouts have been re-
l ceived here, but General Funston and
s ' his staff officers placo credence in
J the report that he was In the vicinity
I of Satevo Tuesday and traveling south
; or southeast.
I From Satevo the American forces
' could send a courier to Chihuahua
with reports for transmission by the
' V regular telegraph lines, but the local
i authorities in Mexico have persisted
in their refusal to accept the coded
' messages from officers of the puni-
s l tive expedition.
'i '. Washington April G,. General Fun-
; ston today asked the war department
) ; to send the recruits, listed under the
: r recent authorization of 20.000 addi-
', tional men to Brownsville, Texas, for
; distribution among the border patrol
f' regiments. The recruits are being
assembled and drilled at recruiting
I stations at Jefferson Barracksj Mo.,
Columbus Barracks, Ohio, Fort Lo-
I gan, Colorado, and Fort Alcatraz,
i California. hey will not bo sent
9 across the border, (but will fill up
S regiments of the border guard.
In Genera Funston's request a bat-
l tery of the Fourth Field Artillery,
'i which had been ordered from Browns-
I . vllle to the Panama canal zone, will
i ' remain on the border in view of
Mexican conditions.
,
I Troops Are Unwelcome.
I El Paso, TexaB, April 6. Intima
'. tions in Washington that the Carranza
government might soon Indicate to the
I I American government that the troops
j pursuing the bandit Villa were futllly
' following a "cold trail" and that the
' ', de facto government would welcome
) the return of the TJnited States troops
to their own country, occasioned no
surprise today in El Paso.
;t There have been insistent reports
) here that the de facto government
' looked with no favoring eye on a fur-
' ther pursuit of Vijla because the pres-
ence of American troops on Mexican
; soil was proving an embarassraent
to the Carranzislas. These reports
I were Inot confirmable because the
: Mexican officials both here and in
? Juarez said the matter of such a dlplo-
-, matlc nature must be considered only
I by the government heads at Quere-
"' . taro.
ft Pursuit Will Be Relentless.
II Army officers here say that while
j the difficulties of the Villa hunt In-
If crease daily and that It may bo weeks
T before ho is captured, the pursuit will
be relentlessly continued until the
S( word comes from Washington to with'
i uraw iue ltoopb.
Twenty Apache Indian scouts pass-
:l ed through here early today en route
', to the tront where they will try to
'1 ) pick up Villa's trail.
M ' Tho Apaches made an nnbroken
m 1 1 ride of sixty miles -from Fort Apacho
jm '' to Holbroolc, Arizona, and then did a
M ; ! war dance before taking the train.
m '' In army headquarters here the war
M - department's authorization to General
M Funston to add 108 motor trucks to
M ;. the Columbus-Casas Grandes supply
m i train is taken to mean that there la
4 4 no Immediate hope of obUiining tho
fM '( use of the Mexico Northwestern rall
9 ?1 way for Bhipment of American army
3H T supplies.
Jm 1 It is aulrorltatlvely stated that the
m request, for tho 108 trucks went for-
5 ward to the wnr department more
? lV than a week ago, but that compliance
a i with It was withheld pending nego
M 1 1 tiatlons for the use of tho railroad.
fl i No Word From Carranza.
M Since the state department an-
j9 ; nounced tliat General Carranza had
S assented to the shipment of supplies
flE; over tho Mexico Northwestern not
R' one word has been received locally
K that would indicate when its use
K would begin. Mexican Consul Garcia
JH) said today he had received no In-
H structlons from tho de facto govern-
ment. Army officials said that to
date not one pound of supplies had
been sent forward other than by way
of Columbus and tho motor train.
With tho addition of 108 new trucks
about 330 trucks will be in use ou
the Columbus-Casas Grandes traiL
The total cost of the truck train?
will be about $70,000, it is estimated.
Private Shippers Send Supplies.
Although the army is not using the
railroad, private shippers aro doing
so In Increasingly large degree. The
final destination of some of the food
supplies of the private shippers is the
fieJd quartermaster at Casas Grandes.
Today a freight train of twelve cars
pulled out of Juarez for Casas Grandes
and Pearson. It bore various lood
supplies for the- soldiers, and hay and
I oats for tho horses.
Twenty Apache Scouts.
Columbus, N. M., April C Clad in
khaki and leather uniforms of Ameri
can cavalry, twenty Apache Indians
were preparing here today to start for
the headquarters of General Pershing,
where they will act as scouts and
trailers in the combing of the moun
tains of Guerrero for Villa. Thirty
years ago, fourteen of the Indians
in war paint and blankets, fought
the American troops of which General
Pershing was then a second lleuten-
ant, in the Geronimo campaign, in
the samo district. Captain O. P. M.
Hazzard, who arrived with the scouts
that they would leave for the front
as soon as their ponies can bo un
loaded. Hold Great War Dance.
"Wo are going to bring Villa back,"
said M. Jese Valesquoz, interpreter
for the party. 'Our men wero
pledged to do so In a great war danco
the first for years and they cannot
go back on thcrfr word. These men
aro man hunters, men who can fol
low a trial of broken twigs and dis
turbed dust as readily as you can read
a printed page."
Valesquez said that the warriors,
some of whom are more than seventy
years old, donned war paint and
danced throughout the night before
they left, as they did years ago, and
then, without sleep, rode horseback
tho sixty miles to the nearest railroad
station.
Dispatches From Carranza.
Washington, April 6. Dispatches
reporting continuing negotiations with
General Carranza for use of the rail
ways wero received today "from Spe
cial Agent John L. Hogers at Quere
taro. They indicated tho question was
! still unsettled but officials regarded
the situation as favorable. The exact
questions under negotiation were not
I disclosed.
! Secretary Lansing declined to say
" what progress had been made with
General Carranza. The last official
' announcement was of submission by
1 Carranza of several modifications.
' These apparently still aro beforo tho
state department
1 on
oc
AWFUL MURDER
OF TWO WOMEN
Heads Are Crushed and Bodies
Found in Different Parts of
House $3,000 Is
Missing.
Seattle, Wash., April C Tho bodies
of Mrs. Corlnne Wheeler 7G years old,
nnd Mrs. Kate B. Swift, aged 153, were
found in their home hero early today,
'by H. S. King, their nephew. The
heads of both women had been
crushed and $3,000, supposed to have
been hidden in tho house, was miss
ing, he reporto to the police. Tho
murder was said by the police to have
'been thq most shocking committed
here In recent years. The bodies of
tho women, which were found in dif
ferent parts of tho disordered house,
were fully clothed and Indicated, ac
cording to the police, that they had
been murdered early in the evening..
Mrs. Wheeler and Mrs. Swift came
here about a year ago from Carthage,
Mo.
King Informed the police that his
aunts kept a largo sumo of money in
the house, but no trace of it has been
found after a search of the premises.
Carthage, Mo., April 6. Mrs. Cor
inne Wheeler and her sister, Mrs.
Kate Swift who were found murdered
In their home at Seattle, Washington,
today formerly resided here. Mrs.
Wheeler's husband died two years
ago, leaving her a largo estate. It
is said that both Mrs. Wheeler and
Mrs. Swift own considerable property
near Mount Vernon, Mo. A sister,
the nearest surviving relative, lives
at Mount Vernon.
oo
CARRANZA MAY
OPPOSE D. S.
Delay in Permitting Use of
Railroads Due to Desire for
Americans to Leave.
OFFICIALS INQUIRING
Want to Know How Far South
Americans Will Go and How
Long They Intend to Stay.
Washington, April 6. Attention of
administration officials was focused
today on the diplomatic aspects of
' tho American expedition Into Mexico.
! News regarding military develop
ments was lacking.
In some quarters there was a
strong inclination to connect the de
facto government's apparent delay In
permitting the use of the railroad for
the shipment of supplies to the Unit
ed States forces with a desire of Gen
eral Carranza to have the American
soldiers leave Mexican soil.
It Is understood that Carranza of-
' ficlals on the border have made in-
1 formal Inquiries as to how much long
er the expedition will remain In Mex-
' Ico and how far south it will pene
trate. Legally the American forces are
now pursuing what Is termed "a hot
trail" no great surprise would be oc
casioned here It Carranza should sug
gest soon that the trail had become
cold and should question the propri
ety of American troops proceeding
much farther.
oo
WILSON POLICIES
ARE DENOUNCED
Indiana Republicans Declare
Administration Inefficient
and Extravagant Nation
in Discredit.
FAIRBANKS THE MAN
Democrats Have Brought Busi
ness Depression at Home,
Discredit Abroad, Confu
sion and National
Humiliation.
Indianapolis, Ind., April 6. Drawn
along conservative lines and contain
ing a strong Indorsement of Charles
W. Fairbanks for tho presidential
nomination, the platform drafted by
the resolutions committee in an all
night session was submitted to the
Republican state convention here to
day. The platform denounces tho Wilson
administration as "Inefficient and ex
travagant" and declares It has
"brought us business depression at
homo and discredit abroad," adding
that ''such prosperity as has attended
the Democratic administration has
been due almost wholly to woe nnd
disaster -which prevail in the Old
World."
Tho tariff plank demands the re
ennctmeut of a protective tariff at
the earliest possible date.
Private Owned Marine.
Tho platform favors a privately
owned and operated merchant marine
under the American flag and "such
preparedness as may be necessary
upon land and sea to protect Amer
ican citizens in thoir persons and
property at home and abroad." Strict
neutrality toward tho nations engaged
in tho European war is also recom
mended. Tho president's Mexican policy U
characterized as "weak and lndecl
sivo" and states that It has brought
us "increasing confusion and national
humiliation."
Other planks Include a condemna
tion of tho "Democratic policy of scut
tie In tho PhilipplneB."
ZEPPELINS AGAIN
RAID ENGLAND
One Person Killed and Eight
Injured With No Military
Damage Done Is Of
ficial Report.
ACCOUNT DIFFERS
German Admiralty Announ
ces Silencing of Battery, De
struction of Iron Works
and Other Results.
London, April 6, 4:10 p. m. One
person was killed and eight persons
injured in last night's Zeppelin raid,
it was officially announced this after
noon. The official statement follows:
"The air raid last night on the
northeast counties apparently was
carried out by three Zeppelins. The
first made one attack about 9:10 p,
m., but was driven off by the fire of
anti-aircraft guns after dropping five
bombs which caused no damage or
casualties. Numerous observers stat
ed that this Zeppelin was struck by
gunfire.
"Tho second raider made its ap
pearance in another locality at about
10:15 p. m. Although It was in the
neighborhood for some time, no
bombs were dropped.
Slight Damage Done.
"Another raider delivered an at
tack In a third locality during the
night. Although several bombs were
dropped only slight material damage
was done.
"The total number of Bombs drop
ped was twentyifour explosive and
twenty-four incendiary. The casual
ties at present reported are:
"Killed one child; Injured eight.
"No military damage was done."
Berlin Reports Raid.
Berlin, April 6r by wireless to Say
ville. The German admiralty an
nounced today that German airships
last night silenced a battery near
Hull, England, with bombs and de
stroyed a large Iron works near Whit
by. The airships returned safely.
The statement follows:
"During the night of April 5-6 Ger
man naval airships destroyed a large
Iron works, with blast furnaces and
extensive establishments, near Whit
by, after having put out of action
with explosive bombs a battery north
of Hull.
"The raiders also attacked the fac
tories In Leeds and the surrounding
region, and several railroad stations
in the Industrial district. Good ef
fects were observed.
"The airships wero shelled heavily.
All returned undamaged.
AMERICA FACES
GERMAN CRISIS
Entire Marine Situation in Re
gard to the Sussex and Other
Disasters Hinges on
Berlin Reply.
INTENSE INTEREST FELT
I
Germany Must Demonstrate
Value of Her Promises Made
to the United States.
Washington, April 6. With the en
tire marine situation hinging upon
Germany's attitude In regard to the
Sussex and other serious marine dis
asters, officials today awaited with
Intense Interest a response from the
Berlin foreign office to inquiries made
by Ambassador Gerard.
The accumulation of evidence Indi
cating that German submarines wero
responsible for the disasters Is under
stood to have convinced officials that
It. is up to the Berlin government to
demonstrate the value of promises
given the United States.
SWEETS 10 BE
SENT TROOPERS
Quartermaster Requisitioned
for 5,000 Pounds of Candy
as Part of Food Ration.
El Paso, Texas, April 6. Tho sweet
tooth developed by tho American ex-
podltlonary force in Mexico is to be
gratified.
i The quartermaster's dopot here to-
day received from the. field quarter
'. master at Casas Grandes a requisition
I for 2,000 pounds of chocolate candy
and 3,000 pounds of stick candy.
The local quartermaster at once
- took steps to rush tho order through.
, Candy is not regarded in tho army as
a luxury, but as a food which will
be doubly appreciated by the hard
riding troopers after days and days
of subsistence on nothing but hard
tack and bacon.
uu .
SMELTING COMPANY
DECLARES DIVIDEND
New York, April 6. Directors of
the United StateB Smelting, Refining
an Mining company have declared a
quarterly dividend of 1 a share on
the common stock placing It on a ?4
per annum basis.
The 1915 annual report showed net
profits amounting to $6,592,525 after
deducting $986,859 for improvements
and reserve. This is an Increase of
$4,326,6S4 over the previous year.
oo
GASOLINE TAKES
ITS FIFTH JUMP
San Francisco, April 6. The price
of gasoline took its fifth jump in five
months when the Standard Oil com
pany of California announced that,
beginning today, the price of the pro
duct would be advanced one cent, or
to 19 cents a gallon.
A year ago gasoline was selling in
, San Francisco for 12 cents a gallon.
fit had advanced to 14 cents in No
. vember, 1915. The explanation of-
fered by the producers for the rise Is
that gasoline "Is worth more and costs
. more to make."
Tho advance, according to the
Standard OU company announcement,
will be effective "at all points and on
all delveries."
BANDITS MURDER'
FIFTY PERSONS
Marauders Wreck Train Be
tween Torreon and Zacate
cas Men, Women and
Children Lose Lives.
Laredo, Texas, April G. Fifty per
sons, including women and children,
were murdered by bandits between
Torreon and Zacatecas on March 2S,
when the marauders wrecked the train
on which they were riding, according
to word brought hero today by mes
sengers. The bandits, according to the story
told here, wrecked the train in a hilly
section of the country sparsely inhabi
ted, 'and shot down the passengers
ono by one as they emerged from the
wreckage. When all the passengers
were killed or wounded, the bandits
set fire to the wreckage and cremated
the bodies.
A military train following the pas
senger reached the wreck shortly af
terward, but turned back to Torreon
without rendering aid.
No other details were available. The
. source Is considered authentic here.
PRESIDENT ON
SPEAKING LIST
Over Thousand Invitations
Sent Out for Jefferson Day
Banquet Brilliant Af
fair Planned.
Washington, April 6 The Jefferson
Day banquet, to bo given by- the Com
mon council club here on April 13,
promises to be one of the most bril
liant gatherings of its kind over held,
according to the committee In charge.
More than a thousand Invitations have
been sent out.
Tho list of speakers includes Presi
dent Wilson and Senator Walsh of
Montana.
oo
SCHILLER DENIES
ACT OF PIRACY
Claims Holdup of British Ship
Matoppo Was an Act
of War.
Now York, April 6. The exploit
of Clarence Hudson, alias Ernest Schil
ler, In holding up, unaided, the British
steamship Matoppo on tho high seas
last week was not piracy Hudson con
tended through counsel In federal pro
ceedings hero today but was an act
of war which was acquiesced in by
tho captain and chief officer who, he
declared, Joined him In a toast to the
emperor of Germany.
Hudson began today a fight to avoid
being removed to Wilmington, Del.,
for trial in the Tederal court there on
the chargo of piracy, as requested by
tho United States attorney-general.
Ills counsel demanded a full hearing
and United States Commissioner
Houghton held him in $25,000 bail for
examination Saturday. Unable to
'furnish the bond, Hudson went to the
Tombs.
v
FRENCH MAKE SUBSTANTIAL GAINS I
IN ALL-NIGHT FIGHT AT VERDUN I
German Attacks East of Avocourt Repulsed Teutons Gain H
One Point Along Line Berlin Reports Big Successes in H
Battles With French, Infliction of Heavy Losses and H
Capture of Eleven Officers and 531 Unwound- H
ed Prisoners British Capture Turkish H
Town Rome Reports Great Activity H
on Austro-Italian Lines. H
Paris, April, 8 : 02 p. m. A German submarine was sunk H
today by a squadron of French and British warships, the min- H
istry of marine announced tonight. The crew of the subma- H
rine was captured. H
IH
Queenstown, April 6, 12:45 p. m. The British steamer H
Zent has been torpedoed without warning west of Fastnet. H
Forty-eight members of her crew are missing and are supposed H
to have been drowned. Two men were killed. . Captain Mar-, H
tin and nine of the crew have been landed here. H
London, April 6, 5:20 p. m. The town of Felahie, in H
Mesopotamia, has been captured by the British, it was an- H
nounced officially today. All positions gained have been con- H
solidated and counter-attacks by the Turks repulsed. H
The Felahie is in Mesopotamia below Kut-el-Amara, H
where a British force under General Townshend is beleaguered. H
It has been the scene of several engagments between Turkish H
troops and the invading British forces. This is the second vie- H
tory of the British to be reported officially in the last two days. H
Washington, April 6. Reports of the American naval H
attache at London on his investigation of the destruction of H
the liner Sussex received today at the state department agree H
with the reports of the attache at Paris that the ship probably H
was destroyed by a torpedo; .--.-. h
A desperate all-night struggle
around Verdun resulted in substantial
gains for the French near Avocourt
west of the Meuse, according to to
day's official Paris report, while east
of that position German attacks on
French positions were repulsed. At
one point along the Avocourt-Bethin-court
line, however, it is admitted the
Germans succeeded in penetrating
French positions.
The French ministry of marine an
nounces the sinking of a German sub
marine by a squadron of French and
British warships. The submarine's
crew was captured.
The British steamer Zent has been
torpedoed without warning, according
to a Queenstown dispatch. Two men
were killed and forty-eight others
probably drowned. The captain and
nine of the crew reached Queenstown
safely.
Throwing hugo masses of men into
action, tho German crown prince has
renewed his drive against Verdun
from tho northwest, attacking tho
two principal salients on tho Avocourt
Bethlncourt front and succeeding in
penetrating tho French center by
storming tho villge of Haucourt. Paris
admits that the Germans secured a
footing In the village but declares that
it is held under the fire of the French
guns from dominating positions.
Meanwhile tho French themselves
were on tho offensive west of the
main section. They sallied forth from
Avocourt and successfully carried out
an operation for connecting the re
doubt with another French work on
the edge of the woods to the north,
occupying a large section of tho area
known as "the square woods." "
Paris, April 6, 2:10 p. m. The war
office announced this afternoon cap
ture by the French of a largo portion
of the position north of Avocourt,
known as Boise Carre, or "square
woods." This ground was captured
In tho course of fighting which went
on all of yesterday afternoon and last
night In the Verdun region west of
the Meuse on tho Avocourt-Bethin-court
line.
At one point along tho Avocourt
Bethlncourt lino Germans succeeded
In penetrating French positions.
Two attacks were made by German
troops against French positions north
of Caillette woods, but were without
result
The text of the communication fol
lows: "In the Argonne a surprise attack
delivered by us this morning, on one
of the enemy's trenches near the high
way of St. Hubert resulted In our
Inflicting perceptible losses on our
adversaries and In bringing back some
twenty prisoners.
"During this attack our artillery In
the next sector violently bombarded
the portion of the Avocoort woods oc
cupied by the Germans.
Troops Fight Day and Night
"In the region of Verdun the enemy,
after tho relative calm of yesterday
afternoon, gave evidence of great ac
tivity during the evening hours. As
the night progressed thero took placo
to tho west of tho Meuse a bombard
ment of extreme violence In tho region
between Avocourt and Bethlncourt.
This was followed by a series of at
tacks In which large numbers of mou
took part against the two principal
aallent3 of this front. All the efforts
of the enemy against the village of fl
Bethlncourt were check by our iH
"During this same time the enemy iH
delivered a furious attack on the cen- tH
ter against the village of Haucourt. H
In spite of repeated checks and of iH
bloody sacrifices, they were success- iH
ful In getting a footing during the H
night in this village. We now hold IH
the village under the fire of our iB
dominating positions. M
German Prisoners Taken. lH
"On our'slde, after a short prepara- M
tory artillery fire, we delivered a spir- H
ited attack, our men coming out from M
the redoubt of Avocourt, their pur- IH
pose being to connect this redoubt M
with one of our works situated on tho M
boundary line of the wood north of H
Avocourt. During this operation H
which was In all respects successful, H
we occupied a largo portion of the ter- iH
rltory known as 'Les Bols Carre" and H
took fifty prisoners. IH
"East of the Meuse two enemy at- M
tacks north of the Caillette wood re- M
suited only in serious losses to tho M
Germans. M
"Thero is nothing to report from tho H
' remainder of the front" M
Berlin, April 6, vTa London, 3:40 p. H
m. Gorman troops have stormed tho H
Tillage of Haucourt on the Avocourt- llH
Bethlncourt front northwest of Ver- H
dun, the war office announced today. H
The text of the official statement H
follows- fl
"West front: There was great ac- H
tlvlty west of the Meuse during the M
day, chiefly on account of the prepnr- IH
atory fire which we directed against IH
the district of Haucourt. During the H
afternoon tho activity of our Infantry H
became more pronounced. It stormed M
the village of Haucourt and the H
strongly fortified French point of sup- H
port cast of the village. In addition H
to very considerable losses in killed IH
and wounded, the enemy lost eleven IH
officers and 531 unwounded prison- M
ers belonging to two different dlvi- H
"On tho right bank of the Meuse H
the French renewed the attempt H
against positions we captured in Call- H
lotto forest and northwest of thero H
on April 2. This attack was checked H
quickly. H
"Eastern and Balkan fronts: There H
is nothing to report" H
Russian War Report. H
Petrograd, April 5, 11 p. m. Today's H
official communication follows: IH
"In the regions of Riga. Jacobstadt H
and Dvlnsk there was cannonading IH
and rifle firing at many places. H
"South oL Dvlnsk numerous aero- H
plane flights have occurred. Bombs H
and machine guns have been used. H
East of Baranovichi Zeppelins were H
observed Tuesday night H
"Gallcia: West of Tarnopol the en- H
emy opened an offensive but was IH
repulsed at the pojnt of the bayonet, H
abandoning a great number of killed H
and wounded close to oar entangle- M
ments. North of Latatche our detach- . H
ments occupied the village of Sviertz- 9 H
kovtzo and surrounding woods. H
"Caucasus front: In the Littoral IH
the Turks supported by their cruiser H
Brcslau attacked our right flank. We H
repulsed the attack, inflicting heavy H
losses on the enemy. Our troops slm- H
(Continued on Pago 7.) H
- - -t H
