Oregon Historical Society
rn'" 207 C
xSHLANB
"Ashland Grows While Uthla flows"
; City of Sunshine and flowers
Ashland, Oregon, Llthla Springs
' , "Oregon's famous Spa"
VOL. XL
ASHLAND. OREGON, THURSDAY, APRIL 0, 191 G
NUMBER 91
Good Turnout at
Commercial Club
If Legal, City Will
Remove Old Ruins
Parking Place For
Autos To Be Made
Rinks at Schools
Skating Scluticn
Fall In Line For-Cleanup Day
The Ashland Commercial Club met
in regular monthly session last Mon
day evening with an unusually good
attendance and enjoyed a profitable
Mayor Johnson, voicing the senti
ments of the majority of the people
of Ashland, has decided the old ruins
of the opera house to be an eyesore
smsKitasa.
and harmonious meeting. After the 'and a nuisance, and the council will
reading of the minutes and the auth
orizing of the payment of the regular
monthly bills, the application of P.
H. Graves for membership was ac
cepted and several resignations of
bend every effort toward condemning
it as such and having It torn down. !
The property Is In litigation, Ed Estes j
holding the right to redeem it from j
the Stevenson estate up until July l.i
members who were leaving town or I The city attorney has been asked to
A.AA. n.knitin. thn rAtxT nnn lnrrnlltfl
uctiuu n UCLIICI Likj t.aii ichauj ,
for other reasons found themselves
unable to continue membership, were
received.
In the absence of any of the Indus-
condemn the property, tear it down :
and assess the costs against the prop
erty. If such a course is legal, the
trial committee, Mr. Rand, of the ruins win De lorn aown ana me eye
Fruit association, gave a short report j sore removed. The council hopes to
of the proceedings of this committee Pet the old walls and charred remains
in. the cannery matter. He stated out of the way by the time the Hotel
that they had taken the matter up
with Dr. Swedenburg retarding the
Oregon is opened, as the view from
the arcade will be marred greatly and
old cannery here, but thought that' me entire rity given a warn eye 10
hi. i.rir una much too hich. and the tourist visitor if the scarred re
mains of the old playhouse are al
lowed to stand.
they would have to make other ar
rangements. The plan now Is to arrange for
some small outfit which will take
care of the present needs and gradu- j
a'ly get a better one. He stated that
the evaporating concern which was j
talked of at the last meeting had
signified their Intentions of Investl-!
gating the field here and that they 1
intended to give Ashland preference
over any other place in locations.
II. 0. Frohbach, as chairman of the
celebration committee, reported that
the committee had been working very
hard on subscriptions and were not
Having we success u.al .. J)ected tQ makJ ft gala day of the af.
hoped for, but that they thought that , fa)r The businesg nouBes wl be
they would be able to give Ashland a j agked tQ do8e probgbly from 2 to 4
good celebration. He stated that rep- j )n the aflernoon of that day.
resentatives of two fireworks com- Un(er the direction of tne pny8i
panies had been in Ashland and had 1, traln,ng drector the gchoo!g wlll
offered some very good contracts, and navBanf nrfirinfltert in hv
several hundred boys and girls. Var
ious contests and games will be
staged. The children are training
Schools Will Stage
Big May Pageant
The school children of Ashland will
stage a monster May day pageant on
eome date in May in a suitable place!
in Ashland park. Superintendent
Briscoe of the schools explained the
pageant at the Monday evening's;
meeting of the Commercial Club and
stated that the school people ex-
that the fireworks would be express
ive o fthe springs work and the park
and fountains. I
D. D. Norris, of the show commit
tee, reported progress with the show.
Several rehearsals had been held and
prospects were very good. lie urged
co-operation of every member of the
club in filling the Vlnlng theatre on
the night of the show at 25 and 50
cents.
Prof. Briscoe, of the city schools,
explained a plan to hold a May pa
geant in Ashland.
F. H. Walker gave a very good
report of the meeting on Irrigation,
(Continued on fage Eight)
faithfully for the pageant and a truly
beautiful spectacle Is promised.
The day will be advertised later
and will be one of the big days of
the summer in Ashland parks.
Ns. i - I
I f ,t'" :A ' ':X'rr A- I
m-Q It :.&x;)i
B fa s v v . - ? r- 4, A i
I1 r' !' V - i !'' - !h'e j
Y" I f t I 1 I it r '-"-'i i I
i ' i IS Si 1 -"At
l,y-&- Lif B '12
A council committee consisting of The establishment or roller skat-Mossi-8.
Danta: Root and Ashcraft has ng rinks on the pub'.lc school grounds
been appointed to confer with the ; g seriously considered by the council
Chautauqua people in an erfort to ' ns a solution for the roller skating
gain their perm lesion to level off the , problem which threatens more trou
space between Park avenue and the ble for the defenseless coiinclinieu
creek on the east side of Park avenue than anything which has come up for
from the memorial bridge down, to them to solve for months Consider
provide a place for the parking of nble presume seems to have been
autos. The crowds of last Sunday brought to bear on all of the council
amply demonstrated the need for men by both the people objecting to
parking space, and the congestion of skating and those favoring letting the.
automobiles which occurred Inst year J children skate. The chief objection
during Chautauqua Is merely a fore- advanced war. the racket made by thn
runner of the hundreds which will be rhlldren with their skating and yell-
here on the big days this summer. in(! oll tne s,i0valks in front of
The same committee will rotifer 'homes of nervous people. At first tli
with ('.. F. Hillings In an attempt to ; question seemed easy to solvo, but
make a trade of some of the rltyV the more it was discussed the moro
j property for the property upon which j angles appeared, until all of the conn
i Mr. Ililliii.ns' barn on Park avenue j en w,;re In a quandary as to what to
stands. If this deal Is consummated ,i. If skating is restricted to certain
j the city will own all the property on streets, the residents of these streets
the west side of Park avenue from ' wm think they are being Imposed
i the street li.'ick tn thp hill from Pull's '
! plaza to the creamery property.
Restrictions On
Sidewalk Sign
THEY'RE ON THE JOB-ARE YOU?
Every day Ik Clean-Tip Day in Aslilun I. Lot's inuke our city spick and
spun and k ccp it so.
Dinner Win Bring
Veek to Climax
Free Porch Lig&ls
Granted by City
Routine Round of
Council Whirl
Ashland's three mottoes for this
spring are "Light Up," "Clean Up"
and "Paint Up." The last two are
being taken hold of with a will by
both the city and the residents. The
former was given a big Impetus by bills and TMns of the monthly re
the city council at Tuesday's meet by ')orts was efrted with despatch,
the granting of absolutely free cur- Tlle l,ark board requested that the
rent for porch lights until January co,,nc" laKe immediate action con
The". mayor being absent at the
opening df Tuesday evening's coun
cil meeting, Councilman Ashcraft
took the chair. The reading of the
minutes, authorizing of the regular
Benton Bowers for
Representative
In another coTumn appears the an
nouncement of Benton Bowers as a 1
candidate for the legislature from
Jackson county, on the republican
ticket. Benton Bowers needs no In
troduction to the people of this coun
ty. He is well known as one of the
biggest property owners in the valley.
He has manifested great interest in
tax matters from time to time and is
now an active member of the Taxpay
ers' League. He is thoroughly famil
iar with the needs of the valley, hav
ing lived here for many years. Mr.
Bowers is the third candidate in the
field for that honor Mr. Thomas of
Talent and Ben Sheldon of Medford
are candidates. There are two to
elect.
This Is western consumers' "Buy
at Home" week, and nearly all of the
merchants are displaying windows! 1( 917 Many of the houses in Ash- cel'nin& tne PBrk ordinance which was
full of either Ashland or at least Ore-i and are already wired for porch read at a recent meeting, and also
gon made goods. Some very artistic nghts, and the cost of wiring those aslinS that their position In regard
displays of goods are in evidence. ' wbich are not i. nnmnai Thpm i t0 ,he 200-foot strip through which
tanned stuns pui up in uie vaiiej-;no reason why every houRe , Agh.
are much in evidence, Ashland made.Iand shoud not have a porch ght
brooms, Ashland made cigars, Ash- Each re8dent may have free current
land made flour, Ashland fruits, pota-1 for one front 1)01.cnllght. Ir the peo.
toes, vegetables, meats, and a wide j ple wl co.operate wlth tne electrical
variety of products. department as they should, Ashland
'ine suggestion nas neen maae mat woud 800 becometi,e most brilliant
ly lighted city in America. Turn on
your porch light tonight. If you
have a meter, have the porch light
Wooden signboards stood on the
! sidewalk are taboo. Signs on Ash
land streets must come up to the fol
lowing specifications, according to
action taken by the city council at
j Tuesday's meeting: Hanging signs
are allowable if properly constructed
and at a sufficient height. Iron or
steel posts not more than four inches
in diameter and set not more than
twelve Inches from the edge of the
sidewalk may support a flat sign at
. i. .. . i ..
uie ioi or uiuy ue ue(i its uiw uei
poles. All signs must be at least
seven and a half feet above the side
walk. Signs may be attached to the
wall of the building providing they
do not project more than twelve
inches from the wall.
But a permit must be secured
from the council for the erection of
any sign except lettering on windows.
Lithia Park Tennis
Courts Are Popular
upon. It' prohibited altogether tho
! children will be deprived of a health
ful exercise which keeps them out of
other mischief, and the many hard
earned dollars Invested In roller
skates would lie a total loss, as them
Is no rink in Ashland or other placo
to skate. PesidcR this, the kiddies
would be in the streets and in dan
ger. A vote was taken on the ordinanco
at Tuesday's meeting after much dis
cussion. After considerable cogitat
ing on the part of some of the mem
bers, the final vote stood thren for
and three against the prohibiting of
skating altogether. Councllmen Ash
craft, Itoot anil Ilanta voted yes and
Lamb. Mninger and Cornelius stood
up for the kids. This passed the buck
used as barber i "P 10 Ma-vor Johnson, who took ad
vantage of his privilege to withhold
his deciding vote until the next meet
ing two weeks hence. He says ho ex
pects to be a busy man answering
phone calls in the next fortnight.
The council as a whole seemed to
favor finding a way to have rinks es
tablished for the children on school
grounds, and Intimated their willing
ness to assist in the construction. The
three councllmen who voted against
the ordinance stated their opinion
thnt another place for the children to
Ekate should be provided before for
bidding them the sidewalks.
Tom Roberts sustained a badly
smashed knee and the loss of a fin
ger In an accident which occurred
while drilling holes for blasting on
the upper Granite street pipe line,
near the lower intake. Tom was
turning a drill and a fellow workman
was handling a sledge. The hole was
In an awkwqpd place and the sledge
slipped sideways, landing on Tom's
hand. The index finger was severed
and the sledge struck his knee a ter
rific blow. He will be laid up for
some time. As a city employe Mr.
Roberts comes under the state insur
ance and will receive compensation.
The accident occurred Wednesday.
it would be a good plan to make Con
sumers' Week "Apple Week" as well.
We are informed that there are great
quantities of fine Ashland apples in
storage, and we know that at least
one grocer has a good display on ex
hibition. We had orange week, why
not apple week with home-grown ap
ples piled high Ku the windows and
carried Into every home?
This week wjll reach Its climax
with the home-products dinner which
will be served by the Civic Improve
ment Club ladies Saturday noon in
the basement of the Elks temple. A
crowd of several hundred is antici
pated. The dinner Is to be entirely
home grown, cooked and served for
35 cents.
Ashland creek passes, be decided.
They also asked concerning control
of the Coble tract. The request was
referred back to the board for more
explicit directions.
A comprehensive report covering
the replacement of unsatisfactory
parts of 35 meters, bought several
years ago by the city, was read and
placed on file. The Electric Appll-
cut in ahead of It, so that it will not ance romPy acei the parts with
register the current consumed.
The council a few weeks ago
passed a resolution making a very low
rate on porch lights, and at Tues-
out charge,
Mrs. J. P. Wolfe requested the use
of the city lots on B street for tennis
courts. It seems a party Is negotiat
ing with the city for the lots In ques-
Sweeney Case
Evidence All In
The lithia park tennis courts pre
sent a lively scene from daylight to
dark nowadays. On Saturday and
Sunday especially the courts are
never idle for a minute and generally
, , . , All of the evidence in the case In
waning ineir uirn. ..... . ,k.. Pnn.
l no 1 uiuuim ivuitn bhcivih 'wn
The sale of tennis racquets and, j factor Sweeney sued Jackson county
balls, tennis shoes and tennis clothes Jt0 rePOVer additional payment which
has tcken a big jump and many are ' he aiiagP8 he Is entitled to upon the
learning the game who have never contract for the grading of the Pa
played before. An hour at tennis and clflc Highway, has been submitted,
a drink of lithia before breakfast Is Attorney A. E. Rcames, who repre
a favorite diversion for some. sented Jackson county, will return
The courts are a little soft yet, but , next week from Portland, where for
will eventually pack hard. Some 1 six weeks he has been engaged lit
little criticism hns been heard of ! looking after Jackson county's Inter
"hogs," who held the courts for set ! ests in the suit brought by W. J.
after set when others were waiting,
the chief offenders being small boys.
A court rule which prevlals almost
day's meeting the matter was brought I t,on an(J wouW be ready tQ cose op everywhere that tennis played, Is that
O. W. Dunford and family have
moved here from Jacksonville and
have taken the Meikle house on C
street, Mr. Dunford is an expert meat
cutter and will be employed at
Brown's meat market. He Is a
brother-in-law of H. J Boyd.
J. Wallace Sears has taken the
managing editorship of the Gold Hill
News. Ben Lampman, the former ed
itor. Is now on the Portland Ore
gonian staff. Mrs. Lampman has
been running the paper since her hus
band's departure for the metropolis.
She will now join him in Portland!'
Blue Ledge R. R.
In Attorney's Hands
The Medford city council at a meet
ing Tuesday evening voted unani
mously to refer the proposition of
S. B. Bullls regarding the proposed
Blue Ledge railroad to a- committee
consisting of the attorneys of Med
ford with the city attorney to act
as chairman.
me muns agrees to purchase a
railroad constructed from Jackson
ville and extend it to the Blue Ledge.
Medford wishes to vote a $250,000
bond Issue to construct the road, Mr.
Bullls agreeing to buy It within five
years. The attorneys of Medford of
fered to make out the necessary
papers for presenting the proposition
to the voters, without chorge.
up again by Councilman Banta, who
advocated free porch lights. Mr. Ash
craft Inquired the cost, and when he
learned that the current given away
would be worth several hundred dol
lars if sold, voted against it, holding
that the people should pay the cost
price of the juice. Mr. Cornelius did I
not like the one-year clause and ad-'
vocated guaranteeing free current for
three years. The other councllmen i
saw no reason why the current should j
not be furni:'hn:l for three years free, 1
but in order to guard against unfore-
seen circumstances made it one year. I
turn down the deal the 15th of the
I month. In case the city does not
, sell the land the council were agree
j able to its uso for tennis courts.
I Residents of Walnut street peti
i tioned for a street light nenr the
north end. The electric light com
I niittf'n bad already planned to put In
a light at the designated point and
according to City Electrician Strick-
land the material is on the way, and
j the Walnut street light and 40 others
will be put In as soon as tho mater
ial arrives.
The recorder reported that the
players shall offer the court at the
end of a set if others are waiting.
Xo one Is allowed to play on the Uthla
park courts without proper footwear.
Tennis Is a great game, combining
Interest with enough action to fur
nish good exercise without being
fatiguing. If you haven't played the
game, get a racquet and learn, The
Sweeney for extrns In the construc
tion of the Siskiyou Highway. The
presentation of evidence was finished
last week, and Mr. Rcames Is now
preparing a brief for submission to
the court.
Jackson county made a good case
against the contractor, proving by en
gineering experts thnt Mr. Sweeney
had been most liberally dealt with In
settlement. One Instance Is cited of
tho able manner in which tho cnsn
wns handled. Sweeney placed on the
T 11 ,A .,1, i, , .
in pr0umly n win men ue ex- of Spr)nR8 Commhwlonor Krank
tended. Mr. Banta presented strong ( Jordnn had bc(m propery provldedi
arguments for free lights, and the!The ,,,, Wflg approve(1 Sovern,
resolution passeu. i ne eiecinc ugni ,,, PioOUrWo
this summer.
Ghost of Macadam
Laid to Rest
department will urge the consumers
to put in porch lights.
Building for the future when the
future is tomorrow is a good plan.
The present ciy council wisely look
at least one or two years ahead In
almost everything they, do. .. i
Taxpayers' League
Meets Wednesday
A meeting of the Jackson County
Taxpayers' League will be held on
Wednesday, April 12, at the public
library In Medford at 1 o'clock p. m.,
at which business of special Import
ance will be considered. Two dele
gates will be elected to attend the
state conference of representatives
from taxpayers' leagues for the pur
pose of organizing a state taxpayers' and a sewerage ordinance passed. '
league.' Committee, reports will Je! "
heard Also at the meeting next week. CHI Payne makes Ironing" boards.
reported were
transacted.
Councilman Banta was authorized
to attend to delinquent taxes which
were attached to some of the prop
erty which has fallen Into the hands
of the city.
An ordinance ordering tho Installa
tion of the curb and gutter on the
upper side of Granite street and the
resolution ordering the new sewer
In the northern part of town in the
vicinity of Helman street, were also
passed.
A new park ordinance was read for
the first time and will come up again
next meeting.
The roller skating ordlance was
taken care of as elsewhere reported
tennis courts will be a popular placo ; witness stand an employe who kopt a
diary In which was recorded all tho
alterations from the original survey,
the time lost and the extra expenso
detailed. The rending of this dlnry
consumed several hours. Cross-ex-ninlnatlon
wns delayed until an ab
stract oi the testimony had been pre
pared, and when this was ready tho
Tho ghost of some old macadam ' ,., . thp r0n-
road laid on Main street prior to the ; trnf,tors- -force bills" showing that
paving and which wns torn up when c1aimH had b(,on presented, allowed
the bithulithlc wns laid, rose at Tuos-lnnd pa() for every one of tho many
day s council meet, and win no laid nHtances cited
to rest by the recorder.
O. II. Barnhlll left the first of the
week for Newport, where he will
It seems some $300 assessment re
main unpaid upon the old maendam
and had been kept on the books year spend the summer.
after year. The city has been paying
interest upon the amount which tho $S$$J$$$$$$
recorder deemed uncollectable. Hence ,
permission was granted to the re
corder to transfer the necessary
amount from the general fund when
the amount becomes available and
the account closed. The ghost, un
loaded of Its yoke of debt, will then
He at reBt. "Incidentally", one of
the councllmen afterward remarked,
"this provides an argument for doing
a thing right In the firth place."
BAXI) BENEFIT BALL.
$
S Friday night at Ashland arm-
S ory. Music by Ashland band of
4 twenty-four pieces. Dancing at $
$ 9 o'clock. Spectators 25 cents. . ,
Dancing $1. Proceeds to go to- 5 ,
S ward purchasing uniforms.
"
t
