BURLINGTON VERMONT, THURSDAY, APRIL (5, 191 G.
VOL. LXC. NEW SERIES VOL. LXII.
NUMBER 41.
TORY THAT VILLA
ISWGUNDED AGAIN
TOLD II EL PASO
r 1 i T..
it nz i i .iimmziniiiM .11. .1 Utile,
Says He Has Received News
That Bandit Has Been Shot
and Is in Hiding.
I rnrn ni ot inmiflT lllinrl
1 1 1-1. mi u ni:niriim iiiiikh
V. Y. SUFFRAGISTS
AGAIN HOPEFUL
Mystery Involved' in Condemna
tion to Death of Three Ring
leaders, Who Are Suddenly
Reprieved at Midnight, on Or
ders of General Gavira.
El Paso, Texas, April ."..-The story that
J'rancisco Villa In wounded and t lint ins
rupture Is Imminent as asserted again
to-night by Oenornl fiavlra, the CarrniiT'.a
onituatidcr at Juarez.
deneral Oavlra made public u telegram
whkh he snltl he hail received frinn Cen
tral Hertnnl nt Madera, stating spceltl
ally that tlie bandit had heen shut and
nM (n hiding somcwhoie between Hachl
nova and Sntcvo.
The message Is connimntory of reports
from American headquarters tliat Ilia
Mas loca'od heading toward Sntcvo. 'While
tin" story that he Is wounded la still ac
cepted hern with considerable reserve, It
Is pointed out ihat several days have
e'apsed since the fucltlve was reported
In the neighborhood ot Satcvn on his wa
to l'arral, and that nothing has heen
heard since ot his movements. It Villa
vhs In full possession of his health and
traveling at his rsunl speed of l or more
miles n day he should have leached and
pi'ssed l'arral by this time, a fact which
could hardlv ci-cape being reported.
I'iichlneva Is on the eastern side of tho
(ontlmntal divide, about ? miles from
Outrrero, with which It Is connected by
the famous Raehlnova rats. It I thinugh
this pass that all accounts agree Villa
made his way after tho defeat of his fol
lowers by Colonel Dodd near ritterrero.
J 'mm Harhlneva to Satoo the trail runs
about To miles through a broad, well
watered and fertile valley. On each side
of the valley, however, thcro stretches,
for many miles the wildest mountain
wastes In Mexico, all almost Ideal country
for a fugitive. Thoioughly to search this
district would tnlie weeks according to
Americans who aie familiar with It,
Mystery Is Involved In tho condemna
tion to death of the three ringleaders of
the alleged plot to seize Juatez and their
Midden reprieve at midnight by 0neral
Oavlra. Bi th Ocmra.1 Oavlra and Consul
Oatcla have alternately described tho
)'ot as that of Villa and Diaz followers.
As Villa and IVHx Diaz represent op
posite ends of the pole in Mexic an politics,
the former belrg the so-called champion
of the peons anil the latter representing
th' piopirty and clerical classes, there Is
much speculation In Kl Paso as to the
details of the alleged plot. The Mexican
olllclals refuse to discuss the matter. The
allege 1 conspiracy was supposed to havo
heen hatched In Kl Paso, but the Ameri
can authorities deny any knowledge of
It. Fifteen Mexicans suspected ot being
Villa followers were arrested hero to-day
and are being held foi Investigation.
Measure for 1917 Referendum
Passes to a Third Reading
in the State Senate.
Albany, N. Y April f..-Tlie Whitney
rtrcrcton woman suffrage bill, Intended to
provide for a refeiendiim In Ml? n tho
question of votci for women, was ad
vanced to third rending In the Senate to
night 20 to lit cut u rising vole. Piovlons
ly nn amendment to reiiulie foreign born
women to take the oath or nlleglanco to
the I'nlted States and renounce nllc'lance
to the government of which they wero
foimerly subjects was defeated II to So.
Opponents of the amendment maintained
that amending the bill tit 1Mb latu hour
would mean Its death.
"There would be no chnnee ot re
submission passing the Senate this
year If merely argumentative method
had been employed," said Senator Sage.
"The reason that the hill has made
such headway Is that senators do not
seem to be able to say "No" to a
woman. They are not going to win
the respect of women by voting for
one of their fads. What this Senate
needs more than anything else Is to
send homo and have the wives of the
K'tiators come hero and take care ot
them."
Although tho suffragist workers
have beoti nt tho Capitol In force on
previous occasions when tho bill was
up for consideration only a few wore
on hand when the measure w.as ad
vanced to-night.
riie bill has been passed by the As
sembly and when It next appears It
will be on the lalendar for Una', pas
sage In the Senate.
INFANTRY OF BOTH
SIDES NOW QUIET
ON WESTERN FRONT
Rather Unprecedented Calm Fol
lows Offensive near Verdun in
Which French Recapture Lost
Ground.
ROAD BUILDERS IN
SESSION AT RUTLAND
GERMANS ATTACK IN EAST
British Capture an Important
Position on (he Tigris River,
Which Gives Hope for Early
Relief of English at Kut-El-Amara.
HARDSHIPS OF
U. S. TROOPS
Cavalry in Mexico Hungry and
Dirty Horses of Col. Dodd's
Force Die Rapidly.
HAPPEMNG5 IN
Rutland. Aptll i".. State Highway Com
missioner Stoddard S. Hates of Franklin
held one of his road builders' schools here
to-day and about ?." men, or per cent,
of tho road commissioners and select
men in Rutland county, were present at
the two sessions. Tho nntl.ind Business
Men's association gavc a complimentary
dinner at the Hotel Hardwell for the
visitors.
Mr. Hates urged the town authorities
to give attention to upkeep of roads al
ready constructed along modern lines
rather than building of new stretches.
The bridge question was also gone into
extensively. Our present antique laws
mailn before tho advent ot the motor
truck, prohibit a load of more than live
tons on the highway. These statutes are
bound to bo changed very soon as Mr
Hates recommended construction of
bridges and culverts capable ot holding
up tons.
GERMAN PIRATE TO BE
TRIED IN DELAWARE
MOST RECRUITS FROM
SMALLER CITIES
In
New York, April !i. I'nder arrest on a
charged of piracy, Clarence Hudson,
other wls(. known as Ernest Schiller, win
lodged In tho Tombs to-night pending hU
removal to Delaware for trial for tho
seizure at son of the British freight
steamer Matoppo. Ho was taken Into
custody nt Bclloviic hospital on n war
rant Issued by William (1. .Mihaffy. fed
eral commissioner In Delaware. He is
i barged with having committed the crime
of piracy as dellned by the law of nations
and of the I'nlted States.
Hudson was brought to this city by tho
police of Lewis, Del., after his arrest
thero without sanction of the federal authorities.
RUSSIAN ARMIES
GAINING IN CAUCASUS
London, April .'.For tho moment the
Infantry of both sides Is quiet every
where along the western front In France,
tin tho much disputed sectors around
Verdun the only uetlvlty has been an
Intermittent bombardment In tho region
of Douaumont nnd Vntlx. This lather
unprecedented calm follows a successfu
offensive undertaken by the Flench, In
which they recaptured some of their
lost ground and drove the Hermans
back.
'hi the eastern line In Hussla, the Ocr
mans have taken up tho offensive anil
are heavily attacking with Infant-y and
artillery the Ilusslan positions. Unoffi
cial advices from Petrograd say. how
ever, that tho (iornians nowhere have
been able to penetrate tho Russian line
In frontal attacks.
Tho Italians and Austrlans aro con
tinuing their operations along the Aus-tro-Itallan
front, but no Important
chances In positions have occurred.
The Hrltlsh In Mesopotamia have cap
tured an Important Tmkish position nt
I'mm-el-Henna, on the Tigris river, 2l
miles below Kut-el-Ainara. This victory
Is considered in London as giving hope
for the early relief of the Hrltlsh forces
who have been besieged In Knt-el-Amara
since last December. Tho Uusslans also
are successfully operating against tho
Turks In tho Caucasus and Persian re
gions. Berlin reports tho loss during March
of H Herman aeroplanes, 14 Hrltlsh and
French machines. Thirty-eight of tho
latter wero brought to earth In air com
hats, according to Merlin.
Ambassador Pago has forwarded from
London to Washington metal found In
the cross-channel steamer Sussex, re
cently damngod by nn explosion, which
killed a number of persons and wounded
several Americans. Tho embassy ir.
London Is credited with tho belief that
the metal came from a Oerman torpedo,
Spa'n has sent a note to Oermany pro
looting against tho torpedoing of the
Sussex, In which several Spaniards lost
their lives.
British patrol boat has picked up
off the Orkney Islands, Scotland, tho
Brazilian steamer Sandanha Do Oaina,
bound from Para, Brazil, for New York,
with a cargo of raw rubber. As the
steamer was several thousand miles out
of her course the British are Inclined
to the bel'ef that she was attempting to
run the blockade.
Columbus, N. M., April C Tales ot tho
hardships of the American soldiers who
aro pursuing Villa over tho desert and
through the mountains of Chihuahua
wero brought here to-day by at rivals
with a truck tialn which had carried
supplies to Col. tliiorgo A, Dodd's com
mand, Far from being tho smart cavalrymen
who three weeks ago crossed Into Mex
ico, tho roldlers, their shoes ruined by
the shnrp stones of thn mountains and
their uniforms torn by brush, are wear
ing sandals made of cowhide and such
clothing as can be obtained from na
tives, they dei laied.
It also was asserted that Colonel
Dodd's conmianil had lost bo many horses
In the lelentless pursuit ot the bandit
chief that fully half the men wero with
out mounts.
A truck train, tinder the command ot
Capt. C. H. Drake, consisting ot 27
trucks, went to within seven miles of
Ouerrem, Its crew being tho first Ameri
cans to meet tho troopers of tho Sev
enth cavalry after their engagement at
that town.
"Tho men were a nondescript crowd,"
said Captain Drake. "Their faces wcio
caked with gray alkali dust and they
had been without regular rations for
somo days. Coffee, salt and tobacco
were beyond price. Yet through their
haggard dirtiness, tho men smiled and
told of their lesolule purpose tho gel
ting ot Villa "
THE STATE OF
VERMONT
Local Items of Interest from
All Parts of the Green Moun
tain State Condensed So That
He Who Runs May Read.
THE OS 81 COUNTIES
From the Island in the Lake to
the Passumpsic, Along Otter
Creek and Shores of While
River. Covered by Our Special
Correspondents.
MIDDLEBURY.
LEIGHTON MURDER
Mrs. Agnes Hope, wife of William AV.
Hole, a well known hotel keeper of Ben
nington, died Fildnv evening after a brief
Illness duo originally to neitiltls and fol
lowed by weakening of tho heart. Mrs.
Hopo was 47 years of age and was a
daughter of the late Mr. and Mrs. James
MoMahon of this town, being the young'
est of a large family of children. Pro
vliitis to going to Bennington, Mr. and
Mrs. Hope, after spending most of their
'Ife in Mlildlel.ur.v. had lived for a few
' vears In St. Allians. where they wer
also engaged In the hotel busltnss. She Is
survived by one daughter and two sons,
.Miss Katberine Hopo. who Is attending
school In St. Albans, and Raymond and
Stanley Hope, twin boys, who have been
with their parents In Bennington. She Is
Respondent Takes Stand and i sl"f'' ,,v,"? slstf ;,Mrs' ,Aa
Patrick and John MtOIahon of Mldtlln
CASE WILL GO TO
THE JURY TO-DAY
Declares Shot That Killed
Gibson Was Not Fired
at Victim.
Woodstock, April D. Tho case of
Charles Lelghton, Indicted for the mur
der of A, C. Oibsnn f ojiar.ni, which
has been on trial In Windsor county
court for several days, will probably go
to tho jury to-morrow morning. The evi
dence was closed this afternoon and tho
arguments begun.
Lelghton, who, It Is alleged, tired tho
fatal shot that killed Olbson, took tho
stand In his own behalf. He said that
three days before the shooting Clbson
came to see til m about tho logs, tho
ownership of which led to the fatal
liiarrel. Gibson said then he did not
believe what Lelghton said about tho
lay of the land and the boundary lines
and ended by stating he was going to
have the logs nnyway. On tho day ot
1(1 l)n I nltcd states Ilns Raised
S.1!.0 Volunteer.
WIshlngton, April r,. Although Chl
ngo, San Francisco, New York and
Philadelphia, In Hint order, have pro
d iced 73S of the 2,2.".0 recruits accepted
by the army slnco the Villa raid on
Columbus, It Is by no means true that
the proportion of recruits to population
Is largest In the great cities of the coun
try On the contrary, the best show
ing Is mado by smaller cities, partlcu
lerlv thoso surrounded by rural district.
Chicago leads with 27G recruits. But
Chicago, Including Its recruiting station
at Milwaukee, draws from a population
of 2,C,6,CW. In lii days Chicago recruited
ono man for every D.tol Inhabitants.
'ew York's record is worse, showing
only one recruit for 29.S.31 Inhabitants.
1 hilndclphla recruited one man for
14,E"0 people, Han Francisco makes a
much better showing, with ono recruit
to Inhabitants, ranking ninth In
the list of 51 rccrultlm: offices, hut this
Is attributed chlelly to ro-enllstmcnts by
men who have recently returned from
Philippine service
A display which Is causing a number
of congressmen to scratch their heads
dubiously Is that which shows how few
men havo been added to tho army since
the raising of 120.0on men was author
lied, This Increase was about ?a,(yft men.
It has taken 10 days to raise 2,?50 men.
At this rato It will take six months to
ralso tho full lot, nnd In this time thero
will be other vncnncles, through oxpira.
tlon of enlistment terms. Also, It is
likely that many of the applicants ac
feptod by tho recruiting officers will bo
declined at tho tralnln depots, the nor
mal loss through this being 13 per cent.
Army men admit frankly that they do
not see how at the present rato the full
Rrmy strength can
nine mnnthn.
lMtrograd, via London, April 5. Al
though there has been no recent olllclal
news concerning the developments, on tho
Caucasus trout, It has been learned from
private sources that tho Russian armies
lveyond Krzerum and In Persia aie pro
grossing swiftly and that the Turkish
forces aro offering only occasional insist
mice. It Is evident that the Ilusslan troops
advancing through Persia to tho Meso
potamia frontier havo not yet met the
main Turkish forces. These, consisting
ot tho Bagdad divisions and reinforce
ments sent southward after tho fall of
Bltlls and Mush, are teported to he as
sembling In the Hanlkln pass, and when
the ltusslana reach this point they will
be confronted no longer by mountain
bands and remnantB of broken and de
moralized divisions, but with tho full
strength of tho organized Turkish army.
Therefore, although an ultlmato Junc
tion with the British forces Is not
doubted hero, It Is not supposed that
this consummation of the Jtussiaa plans
will be easily reached.
AUSTRIAN'S ATTACK IN
10 NAVAL AEROPLANES
Woodstock Co. Has $20,000.
Montpollor, April f.. Tho Woodstock
Manufacturing Co., Inc., with JIM.OH
cap'tal stock, divided Into R00 shares, has
tiled articles of association with tho secre
tary of state. Tho company purposes to
manufacture skis, ski-bobs, and other
wooden articles used In outdoor winter
spoits. The Incorporators are Krcd W.
B. Smith, W. U Hewitt, C. r. Chapman
and K. Asjiear, all of Woodstock.
BUnLlNC.TON BAN-lCUt'lTCY CASK.
Rutland, Apill G. Antolne Calso of Bur
llngton to-day filed a petition In bank
ruptcy with Clerk P. S. Piatt of tho
I'nlted States court. Ills liabilities aro
$511.1 and ho has assets of J103, of which
$102 Is exempt.
A petition was also filed by Frank
Legase of Moretown, a contractor, whoso
schedule shows debts of Sl.t21.SS and nn.
ireseni rato wiw mn , ,, '
be attained within fPt? ?f 'lU "mvt. Tho 10 creditors
inwiuiiu uiu .lining iinruwaro company or
Burlington; claimed JCio.Sl,
(In Much Damage to llnllivnrr Station
nnd Barracks In Aneoiio.
Berlin, April 5, (via wlrelcsstoTuckerton,
X J.1 The Austro-Hunsarian admiralty
has Issued the following communication
under date of April I:
"Iteplylng to a visit of Italian aviators
to Lalbach, Ailelsberg and Trlest, an
Austro-I lungnrlan squadron of ten naval
aeroplanes bombed with destructive sue
cess the railroad station, two ga-sometcr.',
the divk? and tho bnracks of Anemia
to-day. Several Ilres ensued, Counter nt
tacks of two enemy aeroplanes with ma
i bine guns were easily repulsed,
"One Austro-Hungnrlan aircraft was
forced to land before the port by the Ore
of three aircraft batteries. Another
aeroplane, piloted by Klylng Master
Molnar, lnnded at the sldo of tho wreck
picked up the two Inmates and com
pletely destroyed the aircraft. Molnar,
In consequence of the rough sea, was
unable to rise ngaln.
"An enemy torpedo boat nnd two other
ships sailed from tho port In order to
capture, tho Austro-Hiingarlans. but
wero forced to withdraw by the bombs
and machine gun tire ot other Austro
Hungarian aeroplanes. Finally, two
aeroplanes, piloted by Naval Cadet
Vamos nnd n lieutenant wero sent out
nnd rescued all four Inmates of tho dam
aged aeroplane and burned it.
"This action was carried out under tho
ilro of the machine- guns nnd bombs of
two Italian hydroaeroplanes, which flew
at an altitude of only 100 motors."
burv and Ivlward Me.Mahon of Chicago.
Tho remains were brought to Mlddlohury
iSundny and funeral services wero held
at St. Mary's P.nmnn Catholic Church at
nine o'clock Monday, with Interment
In the Mlddlohury Catholic cemetery.
Miss Susan 1). Parker while visiting
friends near Danbury, Conn . fell and
broke her left arm near the shoulder.
At last accounts she was resting easily
In tho Danbury hospital. She will leave
there for Washington. D. C, us soon as
she is nlile. Miss Esther Frost, who has
been spending two weeks with her par
ents. Mr. and Mrs. K. A. Frost, has re
turned to Itartland, where she Is a teach
or In the high school. Mr. nnd Mrs. John
Ryan have, returned from Rutland, where
they have been to visit rclitlves and
friends. Mrs. Flmer Cook and two chll
Iron of Proctor are visiting her parents,
Mr. and Mrs. Chailes Lowell. Mrs Frank
McHonnld of Foiestdalo Is visiting he
daughter, Mrs. Collins. alias Myilo B
11111, who has been visiting her parents,
Mr. and Mrs. Fred Hill, for 1 days, has
returned to Woodstock, where she is a
teacher In tho high school A movement;
l !i snooting i.eignton and ills sons, who . ,,, ,,.,,, ,, i,i,vnii, n the minor
unci iancii a gun ami sum stakes with em, nf Pmllh Mll)n ptr(;Pt , thr, r(mcter
tnem rnr protection, lound t.insnn nml ' , ,so 0 tm, cast H(iP (lf stoirs ave
ins men loaning the disputed logs. lwo;nucMrs N noudreau has gone to th.
teams were alreniiy loaded. Leignton , ,.-.... .11.,., hospital at Winsooki, to tin
iiiiecieo 111s oo.vs 10 niiuiiin me loaueu , n ..i,m for aptiendlcltls. Th
logs. I he boys obeyed, but when they j ,,. f(ir ,tle PW m,,.i Memorial chapel
reached the second team, a commotion 1 ,.,.' rrtv...i nnd are stored In music hall
AMERICAN SHIP
SEIZED BY BRITISH
Washington, April 6. Seizure by a
British man-of-war of tho American sail
ing ship Dlrlgo, bound from Seattle for
Sweden with a cargo ot barley, was re
ported tJ the state department to-day by
tho vessel's, owners, who urged that a
Igorous protest be made. Tho ship nnd
her rnr?o have been thrown Into a prlzo
court, and It la understood the British an
Ihnrltlca ucek to have both condemned on
tho ground that tho cargo, conditional
contraband, wiij destined ultimately for
C-.rmany.
BRITISH FIELD MARSHAL DEAD.
London, April 8, i:no n, in. Fluid
Marshal Sir Charles Henry Brownlow,
the oldest of the British field marshals,
died yesterday at Bracknell, Berks,
Sir Charles Brownlow was horn In
1S31 and took park in mnny campaigns
In India and China. Ilo was aide-de-
camp to Queen Victoria In I SCO-SI. Ilo
was appointed a Held marshal in 180S
American soldiers In Mexico aro send
ing appeals homo for randy, stating they
need it "more than beef, more than over
coats and mote, than relict for their feet."
DODD'S FIGHT WAS
RUNNING MATCH
Mexlcnns Made . Attempt to Flelit
Aliierlillli".
Ceneral Porsblng's camp, San (lor-
onlmo, ranch, Chihuahua, April 2, by
neroplano anil motor courier to Colum
bus, N. M., April ri.-Tho American ex
pedltlonary forces' first fight with tho
Villa bandits was a running match. This
was learned to-day when part of Col
onol Dodd's command, which partici
pated In tho fight, arrived nt tho sup
ply baso near tho headquarlov's camp.
When tho United Statos soldiers over
took tho bandits in a s'jrprlso attack
Inst Wednesday morning tho Mexicans
inado no attempt to fight tho Amor
leans, whom they equalled In numbers,
oxcopt when they wero brought to hay
by tho hard riding of th pursuers.
Troopers who participated In tho fight
(laid that tho bandits rodo silently, as
If in flight.
resulted and, Lelghton testified, he saw
several men running towards him, carry
ing cant hooks.
Lelghton then said to them:
"Stop whero you are, boys. You
know better than this. Unbind thcs
logs nnd get off these premises."
Clbson threw his rant book at Lelgh
ton and It struck the respondent across
tho stomach and on ono elbow and
doubled him up. fllhsnn grabbed an
other cant hook irom i-ivii Hpauldlng 1 returned
and, snoving htm iincn, mm nmi and the ,i .i
other men to "get into them. Olbson
drew his cant hook back to hit the re
spondent a-jaln. Then Walter Lelghton
tackled Olbson.
Lelghton llred a shot Into the crounii
ns Wheeler started for him. Wheeler
enmo towards him ngaln, and again he
fired townrd tho ground, not Intending
to hit either Wheeler or Olbson. Wheeler
then started to run, but Lelghton told
him to stop and go to help Olbson, who
had thrown his hands up and said:
"I'm shot."
Lelghton then told of the binding up of
Olbson's leg and sending hlni nwny. He
said ho did not threaten to shoot any
body at nny time. He went homo and
then to Sharon anil delivered himself up
to tho sheriff. The same afternoon he
and his two sons wero taken to Wood
stock nnd placed In jail, lelghton de
clared ho fired Into the irround In front
of Wheeler to drive Wheeler back, as
ho feared tho latter was going to hit
him with his cant hook, A long cross-
examination Hid not materially change
Lelgliton's evidence.
Dr, H, C. Jackson of Woodstock told
of examining tho respondent nt the Jail
and finding an abrasion on the left
elbow and n tenderness In the region
or- win stomneii on tne evening of tho
shooting. The next day ho found a
bulging or swelling In the region of the
stomach. Ho was In bed feeling badly.
The doctor also found a wound on
Newel's nose. Ho found nn recent In
juries on Walter,
Loren Pierre, lawyer, of Woodstock
was called ns an expert on rllles nnd
their use, having had much experience
In military organizations. n0 Hhowert
tho tendency of high power rllles to Hip
upward on firing, especially when held
loosely In one hand, as It was said the
respondent hold his,
Tho State put the four Olbson team
sters on the stnnd ns witnesses In re
buttal. They denied striking nt nny of
tho Lelghtons or running townrd tho
respondent, or that Olbson threw his
cant hood nt him or grabbed nn fnlm
Fred Spauldlng. They denied nil aggros,
slons nttllhulcd to them by the Leigh
tons nnd thoy did not say or hear said
tho threats or commands, of which
Lelghtons nccuso them.
for the present. .1. P. Hoyt has returned
from Whiting, wheio he preached at the
Congregational Church Snnilay. Ileburt
E. Summer has returned from the Mary
Fletcher hospital, where he has been for
two weeks. Ho Is somowhnt Improved.
Iris Bullock and daughter have returned
from Boston, whero they havo been for
Iwo weeks to visit her sister, Mrs. Stobet
and family. W. E. Crannells has re
signed his position at Windsor and h
home, Vinton Mitchell, Har
Davis, Ralph Shedd. Franl,
Morgan, and Henry C'hnpmnn hav
returned from Boston, whore the
went to attend a convention ot col
lego men at the Andover Theological Fern
Innrv. an Institution connected with
Harvard College. Fred Indite, a natlv
and former long-time resident of Middle
bury, has returned to Bristol, his present
home, nfter spending a few days here with
relatives. Mrs. .1, Frank Randall of Corn
wall Is spending a few days In town.
Mrs. Oeorgo Denno and children went
Saturday noon to Nnshun, X. H. John
Lynch is at the home of bis parents In
Kutland nnd Is quite 111, but Is reported
to bo Improving. W, W. Ford exhibited
on Saturday some green leaves of straw
borry plants, supposed to havo been kept
In good shape since last season under a
snow bank. They looked as though tho
plants were going to blossom soon. Mis.
R. A. Harrison, who has been hero for
several days to visit hor husband, who H
emolovod on the new college work, has
returned to Rutland. Join. Clancy and I
Edward Burns returned from Mlnevllle,
N. V., whero the foriiur had been employ
ed In tho mines for 11 month, and both
have taken positions with tho Mlddlc-bury
Marble company. Ollvor Chllson of the
llrm of llni)ks & Chllson while taking
down a drip pan under the skylight In the
upper part of tho building, fell 10 feet
to the tloor, Tho ladder slipped which
threw him. II" struck In such a way that
ho broko his loft arm above the wrist and
cut his nose and Up so that stitches had
to bo taken. A funnel's moetlny was held
In the Cady district school house Satur
day evening. County Agent J. E. Carrl
gan spok" on "Llmelng and Seed." Thoro
weie also lemarks by several others. Thn
Rev. J. O'Brien of Castlcton delivered a
sermon at St. Mary's Catholic Church
Sunday evening to a good sized audience.
Miss Stella Wooster, who has been spend
ing her vacation nt tho homo of Mis.
Charles Severance, has returned to Illgh
gato Springs.
Monday, market day, eggs brought
is cents and butter 2." to 31.- Oeorgo Sears,
an employe of tho Oieen Mountnln Mar
ble comi'iiny. while assisting In putting a
cog wheel In place at the mill Saturday,
was Mi tick In his left eye by a sliver ot
cast Iron. Ho was taken to his homo on
Seymour atrcet and Dr. S. S. Eddy was
summoned. It Is thought thnl he wilt not !
lo-o his eye. I
Miss Matle Oertrude Slgnor, younge-t '
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. John Slgiiof
who had been. In 111 health for somo time,
died at their homo lain Mnidny eveiilt.f
at the age of 11) yuars. She Is siuvhed
by" her parents; ono brother, Uswnll
Slgnor; and two sisters, Miss Ida Slxnoi
of Mlddlohury and Mrs. Phllainan l.al'.oek
of Velgcnnes. Tho funeral hervlees will
bo held at St, Mary's Church Thtlisday
morning nt nine o'clock. She was a in -i 11 -her
of the church and wh n In health
was very attentive. Stereoptlcou vl( ws
Illustrating llfo among the mountain
whites of the South will be shown In the
audience mom of the Congregational
church Sunday evening nt 7:30 o'clock.
Col. S. A. Ilslev has returned from Rut
land, where he attended the meet'ng of
tho committee of the State Baptist ho-
lety. John Murphy and daughter, who
ere called hero by the death ot his aunt,
Irs. William Hope, haw returned t"
Brattleboro. Mr, and Mrs. I'M ward
ldredge have gone to Burlington for .1
few days. J. A. Wtlon bus cone to Bos
ton to spend a we-k. P. F. chapman has
leturned from Vorgeline''. William Hope,
two sons and daughter, who came here
Sunday with the 1 mains of Mrs.
Hope, returned to Bennington Tuesday
morning. Mrs. Cairlo P. Moigau of Rut
land Is visiting at the homo of her niece,
Mrs. I). I.. Schick. Lynn Montgomery lsl
Isltlng his parents, M- and Mis. B. II.
Montgomeiy, In North Bennington. The
nnual meeting of tin; road commissioners
anil selectmen of Addison county will be
held In tho town hall Thursday. Thcro
will be both morning and afternoon sen-
lons. William Jackson Is conllned to his
home by Illness. The Missionary society
f the Congregational Church held a well f
attended meeting at the home of Mrs
!.. 1'. ( ushninii Tuesday afternoon I he
Lenten Sewing club of St. StophenV
hiirch held a well attended mietlng at
the homo of Mrs. 11. M. Seeley Tuesday
afternoon. While some of tho employes
ot the Mlddlohury Electric company were
i-placlng a transformer nenr the Sheldon
tore on Main street Tuesday, the ropes
broke and the tiansformor came crash
ing to the sidewalk, 40 feet below. It hit
two more transformers. Tho damage will
imount to several hundreds of dollnrs.
More were at hand and wero promptly
brought Into place, which prevented
trouble with th,. service. Tho Woman's
Mil and Auxiliary societies of St.
Stephen's Church held a well attended
meeting In the church chapel Tuesday
iftenioon. Street Commissioner James
McGllnchoy and n force of men and teams
iro at work cleaning up tho streets
ibout town.
Oeorgo Johnson was arrested by Deputy
hertlt N. J. Sanford Wednesday and
placed In the Addison county jail, charged
with taking mortgaged property out of
the State. The property consisted of four
horses and Oorham and Farnham held
mortgage. He formerly lived In Brld-
port, hut went to New 1 ork State. 1 es
terday it Is charged he attempted to
got out with one of the horses. In cross
ing tlie lake the horse was drowned. It
Is also claimed that h- sold ono to a
patty In Addison, and another Is In New-
York State. It Is not know 1 whero the
fourth is.--, he Rov. Roy E. Whlttimor'
of the Memorial Baptist Church will ho'd
a prayer and conference mietlng In the
vestry of tho church this evening and tha
subject will be "Brighton the Corner
Whero You Are." The Sunday school or
ehestra will play. All are invited. At thu
annual meeting of I'nlon Lodgo No. 2,
t fc A. M, held In their rooms In
the Masonic Temple Tuesday, reports
showed that the lodge was in a good
condition. The following officers were
elected: Worshipful master, ,T. W. Mur
dock; senior warden, Robert Easton;
Umlor warden, I'erley C. Voter; secre
tary, William 11. Brewster; treasurer,
Charles E. Plnney. Tho Installation will
take lilac,. Wednesday evening, April 19.
when the appointive olllcers will he an
nouncfd. Albert Houghton has returned
from Wnlllngford, where he has been for
the past two weeks 011 a visit to his
parents, the Rev. and Mrs. (. R. Hough-
ton. Mr. and M-s. M. Lavonche, who,
have been keeping house In the Batt-11 1
block for a few months, have moved to
the E. C. Brown house on Seymour street.
Word has been received from Rutland
nf th,. death of Mildred Sheldon, the p!
months old daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Irving C. McKlrryher, who wero former
lesldents of this village. Tho remains
will be brought here this afternoon for
burial. -Mrs. Homer Bain has gone to
Washington, D. C, to visit her son for
a few days. He Is a rtudent at an ntt
college. Mrs. John Elmer of Addison Is
TO OQNTiNU
utSIRE
E
W
"GUILT 15 THEIRS'
Declares Imperial Chancellor ti
Reichstag No Peace, He Says
on Basis of Crushing Prussia!
Military Power,
WHAT GERMANY DESIRES
European Peace with Assurance
of No More War-', or Germs ol
War "Silliest of Imputa
tions," Adds Chancellor, Thai
Teutons Will Attack America
Berlin, (via wireless to Snyvllle) Aprl
The Oeiman Imperial chancellor, Dt
Von I!ethir.ium-Hollwi g, iii outlining th'
attitude of Ocimany before the Reichstag
declared that any suggestions of pejict
on tlie basis of destruction of the Prusslnr
military power would make possible onlj
one answer the Oemi'in sword. If Oer
ninny's adversaries desired to contlnu
the .-laughter of men and the dovastatloi
of Europe the guilt would be theirs, h
said.
lie characterlzi-d as "the sl'llest of al
the Imputations" against Oermnny th
report thnt at the end of the war Ger
many would take measures against th
y.merlcan continent and attempt to con
quer Canada.
With respect to Belgium the chancellor
nld: "We must create real guaranteed
that Belgium shall never be a Franco
British vassal; never shnll ho used as a
military or economic fortification again-t
Oermany."
lie declared that Oermany must assure
the sound evolution of tho Flemish racrt
and added that Oermany wanted neigh
bors with which collaboration could lia
carried out to their mutual advantage.
The chancellor outlined what Oermanv
wished that Europe should be In tin
futre.
"This new Europe," ho snld, "In manv
respects cannot resemble the past. Thn
blood which has heen shed will never h"
repaid and the wealth which has been
destroyed can only slowly be replaced
Put howoevor this Europe may bo. It
must be. for the nations that Inhabit It
a land of peaceful labor. Tho peace
which shall end this war shall be a last
ing peace. It must not bear the germ of
new wars, but must provide for all peace
ful arrangement of European questions."
Tho chancellor declared that England
wished an end to the war after peace,
but wanted then to continue the com
mercial war with doublo violence, adding:
"First, tho British endeavor to destroy
our military, nnd then our eronoml'
policy. Everywhi.ro thoro Is brutal lust
of destructon and of annihilation and
Impious will, In an unbounded lust of
domination, to cripple a nation ot 70,
Oiofo) people."
As to colonial questions the chancello
quoted Bismarck to the effect that tlvi
fate of colonies were decided on the con
tinent. He asserted that Ocrmany'a
enemies were now actively engaged In In
venting new formulas In order to main
tain the spell nf Illusion, hatred nnd
deception which binds them.
"Of all tho nations in the war," h
continued, "only Oermany hns been
threatened hy her enemies and by their
responsible spokesmen with annihilation,
with partition of her realm, wiih destruc
tlon of h.r essential political and
economic forces, no matter whether they
call them Prusslanlsm, or militarism, or
I barbarism. Tho forces which before tha
I war bound together the antl-Oerma-i
, r t 1..... r? ..nni,.uf
guest of her sister. Mrs. F. C. Oid.ey . - fi
-Miss Lillian Stlmpson of the Waugh , ',.. ,.,;i,,a nr.
store Is conllned to the house with a felon
on one finger. Leonnrd Zeeninn, who left
hero several months ago for Holland, Vt ,
has returned to town, arriving here Tues
day evening. He was accompanied hen1
by his bride. They are stopping nt the
Mlddleburv Inn. President Charles E.
Plnney nf tho Nntlonal bank of Middle
bury was In Bristol Wednesday. A mnplo
sugar festival will bo held In the vestry
of the Congregational Church Friday
evening. Ms Minnie E. Dodgo has re
turned after a two weeks' visit In Proc
tor at the home of her parents, Xl. nnd
Mrs. Charles Dodge. Joseph Plcor went
to Rutland Wednesday to spend a few
days with Ills family. Mr. and Mrs. John
II. Burns, proprietors of the Logan
House, have gone to Baltimore, Mil.,
where Mr. Burns, who lias been ill for
more than a year with neuritis, will take
.1 coil tsc of treatment In the Jnhn.f
Hopkins hospital. The water In Otter
toil; has been rising rapidly for severa'
:-iys and Is now at a high point. For two
or three days the water to the south
was so high that rains weie unable tn
inn from Addison Junction to Leicester
Junction, but It Is understood that tho
road Is now opened for truffle. Miss Ellen
Sullivan, who spent tho winter with her
niece, Mrs. J. W. Lawrence at Cam
bridge, N Y returned Tuesday night
and was accompanied by Mis, Lawrence,
-The annual meeting of tho road com
missioners and sele-tmen of Addison
county will be held In the town hall to.
da. There will be a morning and after
noon session. The meeting will bo called
to order nt ten o'clock and the after
noon session nt 1:30 o'clock. Arrow anna
Ilebekah Uidge, No. 15, I. O, O. F., work
id the Initiatory degree on two candi
dates at their regular meeting Tuesdny
evening, A banquet was served. There
was a good attendance.
ompelltlon In tho world's markets. Dur
ing the war they haw remained powerful
with the governments of our enemies la
spite of all defeats.
"This Is still the object and aim of thn
war allko In St. Petersburg (.Petrograd),
I Paris and Tondon."
250 WOMEN WILL
ENTER MILITARY CAMP
San Francisco, April 5. Two hundred
and fifty women wilt go Into military
encampment nt the I'nlted States Piesl
dlo here Juno 1 for six weeks under
strict military rulo to learn tho wayi
of wnr, according to an announcement
made to-day by Mrs. Frederick P. Col
norn, regent of the San Francisco Chap
ter of the woman's section of the Navv
League. The object of the camp Is to
prepare- women In tlrst aid work,
PRESIDENT BREAKS PRECEDENT
Washington, April 5.-Presldent Wilson
broke a precedent to-night by going t'
Fort Myer, Vn., for dinner with Major-
Oen, Hugh L. Scott, chief nf staff of
the army. It Is customary for tho Pres
ident to accept dinner Invitations only
from members of his cabinet
VERGENNES.
Tho assistant judges, J, E. Day and
W. E. Hanks, havo appointed W. C.
IVote, W. J. Strong and F. M. Warner
llceiiso coiiiinlbloucrs.
The li uspect Cemetery association has
purchased two small parcels of land,
(Continued ou puce two)
FARMERS PICKET ROADS.
Chicago, Aptll fi. Arbitration of th
differences between tho farmers and
dairymen who arc demanding higher
prlies for their milk and tho big dis
tributing companies, who havo refused
tlie demand, was postponed to-day by
Dr. J. D. Robertson, health commissioner
of Chicago. Wagonmen employed by thi
tdg companies to-day told their custom
ers that there was probability that tha
distributors would be compelled to cut
off the supply of milk from fnmlllei
whero theio are no small children,
Picketing of roads leading to tho bot
tling plants was continued to-day by
farnii is In nn effort to prevent a sup
ply of milk reaching the distributors.
111-YEAR-OLD BOYS CALLED.
Rome, April P. A statement Issued to
day says that males born In 1W will b
cnlled to tho colors durlns tho present
year.
