NORTHWEST WORKER
OFFICIAL ORGAN OF THH SOCIALIST PARTY OF SNOHOMISH AND STEVENS COUNTIES
6c per ropy ; $1.00 per your.
MILWAUKEE SOCIALIST BEATS NON-PARTISAN FOR MAYOR
D.W. HO AN, SOCIALIST CANDIDATE FOR MAYOR, HAS BEEN ELECTED BY A SUBSTANTIAL MAJORITY. SKVKKAL ALDKKMKN HAVE KKEN ELECTED.
NEWS IN BRIEF
German "stay at homo" editors are
criticising German women because
thoy arc weeping over their lost hus
hands ami sons and lamenting because
their children are starving. And the
same thing is happening in every
country. Wo sugge t thai ilu-se pa
triotic t !) editors turn their jobs Over
to women and hike to the trenches.
On the same day that .ill tho Now
York dailies heralded the fad in big
headlines that the U. .^. troops had
crossed into Mexico, a total of four
men enlisted in tho army in the city
of Now York.
Sub cards are made with tho idea
of making it easier for you to got
subs. Prop us a post card for some
tut) cards.
LAWRENCE. Mass. One of tho
latest "efficiency" schemes to bo in
troduced has made its appearance in
a big paper mill here. If a worker i>
compelled to retire to the lavatory he
presses an electric button which noti
fies a clerk in the office, who in turn
presses another button, which opens
the door to the closet. The exit ami
return to worn is made by the same
button-pressing process.
(St'idel Dates, I'age 2, Column 5)
WASHINGTON.—The House twice
refused to insert in the Hay army bill
provisions designed by Meyer London
and Representative Keating to pro
hibit use of the national guard by the
states for strike duty.
The Dupont Powder workers in 100
years has grown from $30,000 to
$258,263,220 in assets. It pays to agi
tate for war.
Three Socialist school directors, one
road supervisor, two auditors, and the
judge and inspector of elections have
been elected to office in Oil Creek, Pa.
OKLAHOMA CITY, Okla.—Social
ist Party locals report that Eugene V.
Debs has spoken to crowded houses in
every county of the state visited by
him, and that Socialist sentiment in
dicates a great increase of the party
vote.
THE GLORY OF BATTLE!
"I asked the boys if there were any
prisoners," said Private Johnson, dis
cussing the battle at Columbus, N. M.,
"and they answered that nobody took
any. I know I brained one black Mex
ican with an axe."
Glory!
BLUEFIELD, W. Va.—Bodies of
nine miners, victims of an explosion
of gas in the King Coal and Coke com
pany mine at Vivian, W. Va., were
taken from the workings.
GLASGOW. —Twenty-three striking
ammunition workers were fined $25
each for rioting.
(Seidel Dates, I'a«e 2, Column 5)
Governor Carlson's latest service to
the cause of industrial tyranny in
Colorado is his threat to use the State
militia to drive 700 striking smi
employes back to woi k at the Lead
ville plant of the Guggenheim Smelt
ing Trust. The strikers, remembering
Ludlow, have gone back to work.
Nearly !50 per cent of the wage
earners In Ohio receive less than $1
a week, according to the report by the
department of investigation and sta
tistics of Ohio. Fifty-seven per cent
got less than $15 a week, and only (i
per cent received ¥25 a week or more.
ERIE, Pa. Socialists here are plan
ning an encampment June 18 to 27, to
take in all counties in Western Penn
sylvania and several in Eastern Ohio
which will be the opening gun of the
1910 campaign in this district. Sev
enty-five tents already have been sold
and at least 300 will be occupied.
(Emit Seidel, Everett, April 9)
LECTURES HELD
DURING NEXT WEEK
Lockwood Lecture Dates
Saturday, April 8, Sunny side; Sun.
April 9, Prosserj Mon. April 10, Ken
newick; Tues. April 11, Pasco; Wed,
Apr. 12, Benge; Thurs. Apr. 18, Wash
tucna; Friday, April 14, Dayton; Sat.
Apr1. 15, Pomeroy; Sun. April 16, Star
buck.
Katterfeld Lecture Dales
Friday, April 14, Sauk; Sat. Apr. 15,
Bayview; Sun. April 16 (2 p. m.), An
acortes; Sunday, April 10 (8 p. m.),
INDICTMENTS
AGAINST STEEL
TRUST mSHISSKI)
Judge W. S. Anderson dismissed the
indictments brought against Klbert 11.
Gary and the Steel Trust by a (Jiiiud
Jury.
Judge Anderson ruled that labor is
not a commodity, and that as t\ con
sequence, there can be no indictments.
The workers of Kast Youngstown
struck for higher wages and better
Conditions. Armed guards and militia
men were called in. The workers at
tempted to cross a bridge leading to
the company's plant and were met by
a fusilade Ol bullets. Four workers
were killed and several injured. Hired
thugs Started riots In order to get
"public opinion" on the company's side.
The Grand Jury after thoroughly re
viewing the case, charged the steel
Trust and city officials with violating
the anti-trust law and conspiring to
keep down wages.
And now Judge W. S. Anderson
who looks like a tool of the Steel
Trust > says the jury of responsible
itizens are wrong in their findings.
3o King Clary goes free and the slaves
of the Steel Trust will continue to
grind out profits for a man that
-hould have been in Sing Sing long
ago.
(Seidel Dates, l'age 2, Column 5)
WHAT IS A STRIKE?
WASHINGTON.—"No member of
the National Guard shall be called up
on to perform duty in the suppression
of .strikes."
Meyer London, Socialist Congress
man from New York, offered this
amendment recently to the military
reorganization bill under considera
tion by the House of Representatives.
The adoption of London's amend
ment would have prohibited the capi
talists from using the National Guard
as a strikebreaking agency.
Chairman Hay, of the House com
mittee on military affairs, made a
point of order against London's
amendment. Garrett, of Tennessee, in
the chair, sustained the point of order,
declaring that "strikes" was too vague
a term to make the amendment, ger
mane.
London thereupon offered a second
amendment to cure the vagueness:
The second amendment read:
"No member of the National Guard
,;hall be called upon to perform duty
in connection with any controversy
between capita! and labor."
This amendment was also ruled out.
STRIKE—The act of quitting work;
specifically, such an act by a body of
workmen, done as a means of enforc
ing compliance with demands made on
their employer.—Webster's Interna
tional Dictionary.
(Kmil Seidel, Everett, April 9)
THE POIItTCAL POT
Uy Watts.
Send in items of interest for the
Northwest Worker. Use the Open
Forum for short articles voicing your
. lea on the great questions we are
trying to solve.
How many sub cards do you want.'.'
The Primary Law is working a tfreat
hardship on the old parties. They
would like to be rid of it for this year,
but there's nothing doinjf. The law
was made to fool the Socialists but it
is working a greater hardship on the
old parties than on us.
The Democratic machine of the
State of Washington is worrying over
whether to Ret out straight Democrat
ic tickets or Non-partisan. The non
partisan is claimed to be ideal for the
purpose of getting Democrats into of
fice.
The Republicans an- getting togeth
er by means of a series of love feasts.
They are, however, awaiting the out
come of the Chicago convention.
All the proposed initiative hills Bave
one, and all of the referendum meae
have been backed by the same
parties. The ballot will look like a
November. One thing
ire <if and that is that there
won't be any "meat" in it. It will In'
op.
n are running short ami mere
wasters are hunting them.
EVERETT, WASHINGTON. THURSDAY, APRILS, L 916.
The Stone & Webster Octopus;
Their Wealth and Power
K\ BRETT BUT SMALL AREA
SUCKED IIV GIANT
TENTACLES
Who Are Slonc and Web.ster?
Everett citizens who wonder why
the Stone Webster corporation are
able to continue gouging them, despite
the existence of ;i state public service
commission, need only i<> ascertain
the extent of their wealth and the
source of their power to understand
clearly that efforts to loosen the hold
ol" even one of Iho suckers of its nu
merous tentacles is apt to prove futile
tinder existing conditions,
t'hnrles A. Stone lias just been made
head ol' the Rockefeller $60,000,000
American International .Corporation,
whose purpose is to "develop Ameri
ca's investments and commerce
abroad."
Tile full significance of Stone it
Webster's association is not generally
understood. Nearly 100 important
public service works in the Bast,
South and Northwest are under the
firm's control.
Charles A. Stone and Kdwin S. Web
ster, graduates of the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, formed their
partnership in 1889. Their success in
designing a power plant for the Cum
berland Mills, Westbrook,' Me., in 1881>,
made their reputation, and they were
led to specialize in public utilities.
Financial depression ill the early
'KO's caused the failure of many elec
tric power companies. Stone & Web
ster at once went into the work of de
veloping, refinancing and reorganizing
such public service corporations.
Rockefeller began to invest in bonds
of the principal companies, through
the National City Bank, which in turn
acted through banks in Boston. The
latter operated through several firms,
of whom Kidder, Peabody & Co. was
the most active. And for this firm
Stone & Webster were consulting en
gineers.
Through the Kidder-Peabody con
cern the Rockefeller connections of
American International Corporation,
of which Stone now is head, are some
of the company's biggest captains of
industry, the General Electric, United
States Steel, Westinghouse Electric
and many other corporations being
represented on the directorate of the
§50,000,000 represented.
FOREIGN ENTERPRISES
Their first steps will doubtless
be the promotion of engineering
and manufacturing enterprises in
Russia and Argentina. The cor
poration will either- carry out these
works for an estimated sum or finance
and equip them and retain control. All
contracts will specify the use of
American-manufactured goods of the
firms represented in the corporation.
Thus the promoters will soon have big
increases in dividends.
The only novelty in this plan is the
extensive field it will cover. It has
already been successfully tried out in
the American public utility and elec
tric power fields. liut the operations
of the new Rockefeller, Stone & Web
ster corporation are to be world-wide
and will cover shipping, railroad build
ing and management, mining, metal
lurgical, chemical and public service
corporations.
The control of such foreign monopo
lies by a few Wall Street financiers is
bound to give them a power in Amer
ica even greater than they have to
day, and one they can use in whatever
way they please. As they also control
tEmil Seidel |
Was Elected Mayor of the City of Milwau
kee in 1910 By 27,608
When in 1912 he was defeated for the
same office by a coalition of the parties
against him he received 30,206 votes.
Mr. Seidel is a forceful, sincere and in-
All Thinking People Will Want to Hear Him j
LIBERTY HALL, SUNDAY, APRIL 9,
TH E
the Ini c,<■ .t of American financial and Trust companies, the National City
industrial corporations, theii political Bank ami the hi t National Bank, all
power must become within a few years New York concerns, have 341 dlrec
world wide. I tors In li ' corporations with aggre-
ll' the results expected by the pro
motei'H of the American International
Corporation are only half realized, In
the words of a far-Meing Htudeni of
Wall Street, "THERI WILL RISE Ul'
IX.AMKKK'A ONK OF THE MOST
POWERFUL PLUT&CRACIES THE
WORLD HAS EVER SEEN,
THREATENING OUR COUNTRY
WITH POLITICAL PROBLEMS
MORE INVOLVED AND PRESSING
THAN ANY WK HAVK YET HAH
TO CONTKND WITH."
STONE-WEBSTER
WEALTH A DAN
GEROUS POWER
In a single year the seventy
or mure companies managed by
the Stone & Webster Manage
ment Association.earned (gross)
$26,688,521 ; their net earnings
were $11,104,764; they paid an
interest charge of $4,432,104,
dividends of $4,184,476, and had
a balance for reserves and depre
ciation of $2,010,868. Their
street railways owned 1,299
miles of single trackage and car
ried .'541,255,000 persons in a sin
gle year.
The electrical properties de
veloped a commercial power load
of approximately 179,880 horse
power and an electric lighting
load equal to 2,41*?£20 16-c«nHle
power lamps. The total gas out
put was 1,754,158,300 cubic feet.
The various companies employ
about 20,000 men.
A few of the most profitable
Stone & Webster concerns are:
Puget Sound Traction, Light &
Power Company, controlling
power stations, traction, gas and
electric companies in the Puget
Sound and Tacoma district, with
a capitalization of $40,000,000
and gross earnings of nearly
.$9,000,000 a year; the Dallas
Electric Corporation, (lalveston-
Houston Electric Company, Mis
sissippi River Power Company
(Keokuk, Iowa) and Northern
Texas Electric Company.
ONE MAN'S POWER
THE MORGAN INTERESTS
.). P. Morgan acknowledged upon
the witness stand that he was abso
lute dictator over corporal ions with
a combined capital of twenty-six bil
lion dollars. Can you form some idea
of the vastnesa of this sum of money.
Can you picture s(i regiments com
posed of a thousand men each passing
in review and every man a niillian
aire; then just think of Morgan con
trolling the total wealth of all I
What, chance in the competitive field
has the little capitalist with only one
million?
Fifty years ago a man who con
trolled $26,000 was a big man in the
commercial and industrial struggle,
but now he is only a "piker" in the
business world.
Including J. Pierpont Morgan's
firm, the Guarantee and Bankers'
OWNED AND CONTROLLED BY THE SOCIALIST PARTY OF SNOHOMISH COUNTY
MORGAN AM) ROCKEFEL
LER INTERESTS ALLIED
In railroads, industrial concerns and
in public utility enterprises the so
called Rockefeller interests represent
a larger aggregate of capital than do
the Morgan interests. And, further
than this, these two big Interests are
themselves quite directly allied and
are becoming more closely cemented
in both their plans and motives, as the
years go by. And outside of these
two great groups are half a dozen
other smaller groups of capitalists
which between them represent in cor
porate control easily fifteen billions
more of capitalized values. These out
side groups ate identified, both in in
terest and other important ways, with
cipher the Morgan or Rockefeller
groups, and thus we may, in present
ing tin exhibit of concentrated control
of corporate undertakings, fairly state
that ■ capitalized valuation of prob
ably thirty-five billions of dollars is
concentrated in the hands and under
the control of not more than a dozen
men.
Now, what do these figures, if ana
lyzed, signify?
Instead of merely signifying that
one-tenth of the estimated wealth of
the nation is under Wall Street con
trol, we find that about 35 per cent
is under such control. And as all of
this great mass of capital is represent
ed by corporate firms, it is worth
while to ascertain what percentage of
the total corporate capitalization of
the country is represented by this $35,
--000,000,000.
A careful estimate of the corporate
capitalization now existing in the
United States, including railroads, in
dustrial and commercial corporations,
public utility companies, banking, In
surance and trust companies, indicates
that, outside of small, close business
corporations owned by individuals, the
total corporate capitalization in par
value in the United States at present
is not over $43,000,000,000. The wealth
of the United States is in the neigh
borhood of $110,000,000,000, of which
about fill per cent is represented by
realty values, the balance being tangi
ble property of thousands of different
kinds. So that we see, after all, that
the trend toward concentration in
corporate control has now extended so
far that approximately 80 per cent of
all the vital corporate capital of the
country is under the domination or
control of this powerful group of Wall
Street interests which we have refer
red to.
65,000 SLAVES!
The census figures show that the
average annual value added to the raw
material by every worker engaged in
manufacturing in 1909 was $1,290.
The average annual wage paid these
workers was $618, The difference is
How many workmen would
Morgan need to produce his annual
income of $60,000,000, if each worker
produced for him an average annual
value of of $772? He would have
64,766 men laboring for him exclus
ively.
These are eye-opening figures. The
r>4,7(>(; wage-slaves who work for the
exclusive benefit of Mr. Morgan and
THE CORPORATION SHOULD
BE SOCIAL AND CO-OPERATIVE
lsy 11. L. Call.
If present industrial and social con
ditions are the result alone of human
institutions; and if the false and vici
ous notion that man's natural state is
one of warfare and hatred, is alone
responsible therefor; then these insti
tutions and conditions can claim no
warrant or justification for their con
tinued existence. And if government
is but the intelligence of collective so
ciety, and must ever act in adapting
its institutions to industrial and other
conditions, —then what task so fit for
it now to perform as to remedy the
error it has committed, and properly
conform our institutions to present
industrial society?
If industrial society is co-operative
in its nature, then should our institu
tions be also co-operative.
The corporation should never have
been created at all, or should have pro
vided for the real co-operation of all
the interests supplanted by it, labor
as well as capital, instead of being
made the creature of capital alone.
But, above all, the public nature of
this mere creature of law should never
have been lost sight of, and it should
have ever been, and remained, under
public supervision and control; this to
protect alike labor, investors and the
public, and prevent its exploitation in
the interests of private greed.
If capital desired to enter upon in
dividual or partnership undertakings,
it could have done so. But when the
aid of the law was invoked, as by the
corporation, then the law had the right
to prescribe the exact and absolute
terms upon which . the combination
should take place. And these terms
should have conformed to the nature
and requirements of existing society,
and not to old and outgrown dogmas.
If we may not compel the premature
■uloption by society of ideal institu
tions, neither, on the other hand, can
we perpetrate that other absurdity
and hold society in conditions it has
outgrown; thereby fostering hate and
antagonism, in the midst of an indus
trial evolution the principle of which
is peaceful co-operation and combined
effort. Thus, by these simple and nec
essary provisions, the corporation
would have been made the servant,
instead of. as now, the master of in
dustrial society: and this without in
the least interfering with its greatest
possible extension, and widest range
of usefulness.
And what government thus failed
to do in the first instance, it must yet
do. If we see an individual pursuing
a mistaken course, we advise him to
reform his conduct, and thus avert his
ruin. Even so of human institutions.
Only by radical reform can grave so
cial and industrial diseases be eradi
cated; and any compromise or partial
measures can but end in disappoint
ment.
ITHLIC UTILITIES MUST HE
COLLECTIVELY CON
TROLLED
In the first place, public utilities,
such as railways, street railways, gas
and electric lighting, and the like, as
also banks, trust companies, insurance
companies, and like institutions,
should forever be taken from under
corporate control.
The mere fact that they are public
ervicea, in which the whole commun
ity is interested renders it unsafe to
exploit them for profit. The citizen
cannot provide himself with such ser
vices; anil if these are given over to
private corporations for their profit,
must either go without the services,
or pay whatever they see fit to extort.
But he cannot ordinarily go without
the services; and hence they charge,
as a rule, "all the traffic will bear;"
and the public must satisfy their de
mands, or its crops must go unmar
vote accordingly should be certain to
have nothing to do with Socialism for
fear it would divide up the wealth and
destroy the home.
(Emil Seidel, Monroe, April 10)
ROCKEFELLER'S INCOME
Rockefeller's income is not less than
$60,000,000 a year, or aboul $6,845 an
hour.
One-half of the male adult wo,
in the United States earn less than
■ a year; three-quarters of them
earn less than $600 a year; and but
one-tenth eari !800 annually.
In the ranks of the women wage-earn
ers, the figures are even less; one
fifth earn less than $200 a year; nine
tenths receive less than $500; one
twentieth are paid more than $600 an
nually.
No. 274.
keted, its supplies be withheld, and
the use of money and of all other pub
lic services be denied. To give this
power to private greed, is as though
we were to license highwaymen at ev
ery street corner, or cross-roads, to
hold up the helpless passer-by. Such
surrender of the interests of its citi
zens, is not the part of an enlightened
government of free people; but repre
sents, instead, the betrayal of the in
terests of the people, by their public
servants, for the paltry dollars of
these corporations. It enslaves a peo
ple, and besieges them, and cuts off
their means of life and supply, except
as they pay tribute to the corporations
to whom they and all their labor and
means of living are sold.
That these franchises and properties
should be reclaimed, goes without say
ing. No plea of "vested rights" can
be heard to the contrary; for the max
im is universal that "private must
yield to public welfare"; and obedient
to this maxim, the citizen's property
was condemned, and even his home
taken from him, in the building of
these highways. Much less, then, in
the restoration to the people of these,
their inalienable rights, involving their
liberty and even their lives in the tru
est sense, can any such plea avail the
corporations, whose possession has
never been anything but wrongful, and
who have already so largely profited
by that wrong.
The trust itself should, moreover,
be taken posession of and operated "by
the people.
Had the corporation been made in
the beginning co-operative and public,
instead of an instrument of private
Treed, then in the natural evolution
if industry it would have extended it
self as now, but all the benefits would
have gone to the people, and the cor
poration would have been their servant
nstead of their master. But since
-his wise and only rational course was
adopted; and since, through our
nistake, and the fraud practiced upon
is, the corporations have seized upon
ill the products of labor and supplies
of life of a whole people, with the pow
a to dictate absolute terms both to
•.he world of labor and of living—then
Ihere remains now no other alternative
han for the people themselves to take
] ossession of these trusts, even as they
nust take possession of their public
iervice corporations.
Were the corporation itself innocent
of any taint or fraud, its development
nto the trust would, nevertheless,
make this a right, and necessary, thing
to do. The control of a people's pro
ducts and supplies, like their liberties
or their lives, cannot be bartered or
TTiven away; and were they voluntar
ily to make such surrender, they must
vet have the right to repudiate the
folly upon coming to their senses.
The very nature of the rights parted
-vith raises the presumption, not to be
ebutted, that they were ignorant of
the nature of their act.
But the corporation has not been in
nocent of the taint of fraud. On the
ontrary, it has been the creature of
orruption and fraud from the very
beginning. The lobbyists of these
corporations have filled every legisla-
Uve body; and their agents have mas
queraded as the servants of the peo
ple, while building up the power and
wealth of the corporations, until this
lias reached the point where trusts
are possible.
(Emil Seidel, Monroe, April 10)
MASS MEETING TUESDAY
AT THE HIGH SCHOOL
A mass meeting has been called for
all voters of Everett and vicinity, to
hear discussions by various speakers,
and volunteers, on the initiative meas
ures now being circulated for signa
tures. President E. P. Marsh, of the
State Federation of Labor, will be the
principal speaker, and will give a brief
outline of what the various proposed
laws really mean to the average citi
zen. As every citizen of Everett will
ailed upon within the next sixty
either to sign the initiative peti
-1 ona or refuse to sign them, he, or she,
.should certainly make it a point to at
tend the mass meeting, to be held in
the High School Auditorium next
Tuesday evening, at 8 p. m.
The average man goes where stern
necessity drives him. It drives count
numbers to war, suicide, imprison
ment, and insanity. It will never be
until the average man
nd understands Socialism and
helps to put it into operation.
