THE HERALD.
__-__ _ _ ` Devoted to the Upbullding of the West Side of the River. "A very live and creditable weekly newspaper."-MANUFACTURERS' RECORD.
XXIll. NEW ORLEANS LOUISIANA, THURSDAY, APRIL 6. 1916.
jIERSONALS
OHD OTHERWISE
thi ial Va-' no ,l ai i
Lodge No. I:, :, "!.
lbous Lodge N) _ '.
siallation of t(f' 'hur- ia*
A large (.cro, ' t an
gmonies %ere r r , r' it,.
speakers fron:,, ,,'," 1h1)* ,.
addresse- Eht,.. : I I larlt
George ur', . " ;ald
g. Feitel in ,Ir ,:i vic
After the in ,t i , : ii r,-;
were served.
IM ome of Mr. :ili ,t- '
.as brightened  i. r!.
V ,aby girl T 'ur, i., ,
1M AliMr pollee I. in.
-( the theft o r +' ;Iar,, r
wer motor andl .,.,r in<
Svacant lot in I',.", r., -t, r ,, .
Vallette anl (+:i'ir ! i lri
occurred thire.t '., i, -
Ketchum told t i, ill , rihrt
w a strange n ne', ;, .l,.l [ht.
"goa sack which t, ,r.; I , . ll,
was found to (l;,i .i -<. til
The property lhii1'2* I tI1 \I
Ltabel, and was aliuid .It {,.
L ad irs. Geo. Kn;; . I .iinl lit
hter, Louise I. ft :,tultdI lfor
Sslpend a feltw wecki
1WuaY friends of .hiuhn Iur l. ill
md to learn that ili hIas re
from an attach if ""it, .iprwil i
RE S. Pollock, Thel, A. S< ihlbr
( l Malone spent the, ',ek ,ll1
'l Adams, the gui,-tl (f l r. ('.
Ats
go Stella Joeckel hai i'in tralll
Sfliei .McDonotlh No. i.: Sc1 l(, l
Lllelle School.
, Golden left Sundlay for Mohir
f ,altter spending a month i\ iti
i'r, irs. W. A. Nelsoni.
llaft spent Sunday at Ihay St
ithe guest of his mtother.
idl Mrs. Mendes left Tuesdtay
SLLt ouis.
llsrva Euchre Club will meet
at the residence of Mrs. .\!
Alale Louise MtNeely -irent
ilbesd with her nmother il t'ov.
and lotto players are
hil OO out to the etuchre
Sl Saturday night given by o
lorrison at hetl houn..
for the b-ra, fi!
Helen Skelly, candidate ,
Playground. Itandsomer
he given. Tallies will cost o
Oames start at v o'clockt
il 34 Algiers Playground boys
i ikjoyea an outing on last s
, m an all-day trip to the I
wras planned. I
irkt has started in the in- t
t~he Algiers candidate, AMis
XI 7, for queen of play day. 9
rE playgrounds at St. Ro,.h
IS ll7th. Several entertain
M planned and we hope i
PHONE ALGIERS 378
OPEN AN ACCOUNT
WITH
STHE ALGIERS
INER, FURNITURE MAN
- E GIVES YOU PLENTY TIME TO PAY FOR IT
# AT CASH PRICES
137-141 Delaronde Street
R PUBLIC FORUM
Peter Radford
ON ADVERTISE IT IN AMERICA.
As a citizen of this nation and one intensely inter
Wsted in its material development, I want to add my ap
proval to the "Buy It In America" movement. Commer
c1al Patriotism and business pride are the foundation
stones of success in industry and no country can become
supreme in commerce and trade without it fosters a spirit
f friendship and partiality for its own products and insti
tutlons. It is the spirit of the hive that makes the
Wheels of industry turn and each community should be
a progressive unit in our industrial universe. All things
being equal the farmer should patronize the local mer
chant who is always a good citizen, a heavy taxpayer
and friend of the farmer. The farmer sends shiploads
Vf'raw material to foreign markets and factories that
meet on their way vessels laden with finished and foreign
, lag to America. Any effort to minimize this economic
 be emeoraged.
and friend of the manufacturer and merchant I want to t
it In America" movement. The manufacturer and
15M blasts on the horn of patriotism but if they will put
aper in their trade territory, making a business presen- h
__ they will find it far more effective than waving the 6
The farmer is as much interested in the price of the 1
- b as. in the price of the things he has for sale and the a
oI ais newspaper are his price list. The price is the thing
*ts the figures in cold type. The politicians give him all
he cares for. Business enterprise is a far more suc- n
- kbusiness patriotism. u
Mst wbrthy organizations working to promote commer
emd find organized effort to promote the press, yet it st
 st Powerful agency for progress the world has ever pro
- mts of days calculated to promote business and honor
Days, Bargain Days, Labor Day, etc., and why not R
S. all business concerns advertise the things they have p
Sbscribe for the local paper and all delinquents pay a
is nothing so elevating in civilisation as the smile A
will contribute more toward the welfare of a com
of the pres. D
r sad patron at the newspapers. He subscribes for
*V every line in it and it is the best investment he R
S ews so valuable as store news: no information so
--. s sand no traesdy so entertainiag as the rise and
1 ee closely studid b the Humers than the a4ve
I or r one will give their aid in making
the Algiers candidate the queen.
\'otes will cost one cent. Won't you
; buy a vote and help Algiers Pla.
ground come out in the lead? It is up
:to you to make us win. Just imagine.
jito have the queen come from Algiersl
Give us your help and success is as
sured. Votes can be had at Algiers
PIlayground and :U16 Seguin. or Mrs.
Joseph Skelly, 207T elaronde.
The benefit euchre given at the ris
I idence of Mrs. W. P. Salathe last
week was a decided succOss. The sie
cessful players were MrI. . P. . \'int.
who received a cut glass watr hot
lte; second. Mrs. J. P. .\llen. an ic
tea set: third. Mrs. Olivier. a sachet
hag; gentlemen's. first. henry liro' n.
w ho received a silk umbrella: second.
It. Haley, a box of cigars, and third,
Dwight Salathe. a tie hanr.
Mrs. J. MI. Iarlow has returnt-!
fromn Laurel. Miss.. ashe-re she visit.ed
her daughters. Misses Edna and I.il
lian lialow.
I.ittle hilly lhuff is improvin. after
having Ieon ill for the last few \aweeks
iMr. and Mr-. F' Albionm lIanils
:;.a- roinox d toa thel city and taken
up th.ir resident e at ::12' Iine straeet
11 Mayor llahrnman spennt Sinhl at
imalhl>onvillh. La.
The F'ridav Night Euchre (tub met
M\ondlay at Iithe hoie of lMrs. P-'. ;o
hel. The sIr icessful plahyers w-ereI Cl
Mrs. F. GCoebel. Mrs . .. Worley. \lrs
.:eo. Talbot and Miss Ni-fe. M.rs. II.
l ke-r receivied lthe consolation. The
inext meetine of the lith will hbe hea
at thre hoime of Mrs. l.agarde. in tier
inuda stree-t. aI
Mrs. I'. t'aroina prsinitel Iher h uis- u
hand with a ,baby. bon. I i
Mrs. .\lice Gisc.i left for iher honie l `
in New York last night. after spend- I l
ing the i inter here a ithI her augh tol
ter. Mrs. I.. f. Gisch. y"
-ro
FALLS OUT OF CAR WINDOW.
.\ pec-uliar accident occ·urredl on Fri- r
tlta teveninis train at a point tnear i
llaippi Jau k. La.. n te- tGratndi Isle
Railroad. Mrs. Joe t as icnl her two dr,
chiilren. of Nairn. La.. wetre an route tut
to their home when one f the litthe n
girls, a child of about sx -ears of it,
age, lest her halance wi -ni leaning
out of the car window, aid fell fro a
the train, which was going at that lef
time about fifteen or twenty miles an
hour. The mother first discovere l. u
the accident. and at once alarmed the r1'
train 'rew. Mr. Theodlore A. Schu- 1
1-cr, a prominent attorney of the city,
happened to be on the train, and im
bu
mediately after the woman gave the
alarm that Aher child had fallen out. h,
lie stopped the train by Pulling the frl
tth
emergpncy cord. When the train was
arought to a stop the Porter ran back
sti
after the child, and to the great sur
her , and nd the hil
Irise of the passengers on the trais, "t
the child wa.: seen sunning up th, lt.
track toward the train crying out:
'People come get me. People com n
get me." Dr. .1. E. Pollock was also
oi the train, and examined the child
thoroughly, and found that shie had
aeen hurt very slightly.
80 YEARS AGO THE
FIRST GROCER
, arried hii t t on i i.. ,:e
rs TODAY
there are in the I nited State,
alone not less thia 141.e',,1
ststores hlantdlilng gre,'ri, -
IN EVERY COMMUNITY
l.',r, d to care leer the 'iganit (o:
the discritinatin_ Su ir .. tuch
i. the Iposition occu piled
tllrouhou11 t Ihi South u \
SOLARI
OLIVE ZEST
make.. ,hli. itol< sandul i, hle . .\
t leaf of lettuce'. ()live Zet, two
thin slices of buItittered ilre
Astonishingly good.
CHANGES IN ALGIERS MANUFAC
TURING CO.
In our last issue w e pullishedl tihe
charter if the' I'retellt ('ity Sish.
_ foor and llind Mliauiifactliriing ('oni
pany. Inc.. the n(e, lirm teinh t made
.iup of iime of the officers and work
itetn of the Algie'rs Manufacturiin:
I onpanl. Thie n w iirp oratio!:.
whic.lh just brought o1ut a nliw plant.
(orrr of Montegut and .Marais
-treets, ntar lhi, Nortleastrn ern all
road, is already enla ed in business.
Mr. Charles J. ('ieutat is president of
tlie new corporation. w ith Charles
Hertrand. icie president. while (eo.
.1. Forrest. \liho was fornllerly the,
draughtsman of the .\lgiers Manufac
turing Company, is now the see retary
in the new con'cern, and Henry (G.
Mlemel. treasurer. Mr. Forrest sev
ered his connection w\ith the old firm
a week or so ago, while Mr. ('ieutat
left on Friday last.
Mr. Albert Twic~kler will nio doubt
become the principal manacer of the
.%lgier. Manufacturing Company., with
William II. Ward remaining as presi
,1lnt The A-l-iers Mnnufacturir.i_
o'ompany has been doing: a thriving
business for the past two years, and
built up a woinderfully larg plant
from a very small start. Most of
tthe stock a as owned by the late A.
E. Ifotard. while the balance of lhe
stock was held by the workmen aid
the officers above mentioned. \\'hat
other ihangcs will take place in the
Algiers .Manufacturing C'onmpany has
not been stated lip to the present.
YOUNG WHALEN KILLED.
Apparently thinking more of his
spiritual welfare than of his bodily
hurts, as his strength was slowly
ebbing as the result of fatal burns of
the face and hands, which he receiv-,l
at 1o::11 Saturday morning. Henry \V.
B. \\halen's piteous pldea to be taken
first to the Church of the Holy Name
of Mary, before being sent to the
Touro Infirmary, was granted, and he
rPeceived the last rites of the ('atholic
faith. tie died six hours later.
Whalen. who was only 19 years of
lage, and employed as an apprentice
-teel car repairer by the Southern
Pacific Hailroad, came about his burns
In a peculiar manner. He was inside
a large tank on a flat car in the rail
road shop yards in Algiers, driving
rivets. There still was a small quan
tity of the oil in the tank, and the
gases, arising from it, exploded when
it became ignited by some sparks
cauqed by the friction of the hammer
striking against the rivets.
Whalen was blown out of the tank
uy the explosion. His screames and
the explosion brought fellow-workerst
to his rescue. Whalen's first thought [
seemed to be of the churchlt. He
seemed to realize the seriousness of
his condition, and begged to be firstt
taken to see Father Thomas J. Lar
kin. His request was granted, after c
wRbich he was hurried to Touro In- "
irmary.
Y'oung Whalen was a son of Emma
andry and the late J. J. Whalen. Be
ides his mother, he is survived by
wo brothers. John and Emile a
Vhelan, and two sisters. Miss Annie
Vhelan. and Mrs. Frances De Rocha, tl
-ife of Bernard P. De Rocha. a mem- e
,er of the New Orleans police force. ,
The funeral was held from his l
nother's home. in Sumner street, near hi
)iana. at 3:30 o'clock Sunday. Inter- at
neut being made in the St. Barthoio-. J
epw Cemetery. at
UNCLAIMED LETTERS.
~emafning at Station A, New Orleans t
'ostoffice, week ending Thursday, th
pril 6, 1916: th
Gentlemen-Arthur Bourgeois, Louis be
ewey, Henry Johnson, George Sims. I
Ladies-Mrs. Melia Mitchell, Mrs. A. of
ichard, Annie Terrel, Mrs. Nolli H
rilliams. i
CHARLEB JANVIER, Postmaster. M
JO8. W. DANIELLS, S~pt. 8ta. A. 10
I LETTERS FROM THE PEOPLE.
.l-ii rs. I... Marh __ I'
I h., r E:ttor
.1Ma 1 ask. thrnii(, the . ;.t,'!in' :: of
nolllr lla.: 1r. ".ah.t i .rvi-i,,ln : , n
hl,,,lo for , arryin. out the t, of I,
b , phool i ,iilhirv i fre,, terric, whib.
att.'L lin_ the pu',li , hpool Tl.is
IIIaIt t""" 'tas ,rci' ly uiicih! t t h li
rector. M1r. F'rank, lieinini: . throuw-',
'our paper in ht halt" of our poor
pupils I ri fte.r this fmatter to vi, with
t i ie h ';t," that so!!t ' ar, ion %% III )e
iakien . our c-ity t(h ialst. and il hi, i
,e tlis ' Itt,iin. that thi.e officia l'
hat -, n- loi ovi(rloked.
A MOTHER.
ELECTRIC PARK.
An tioutli 'ltment liaa heleti mati e 't
.Ia:  I 'ist r, that he a ill r- een tll'e
1 l I'hiur:t P'leasure (rotmnds ion la
tr Sundla. \pril 2'. he havini tatien
ait tell-y) ar ,l,.t- ol, the ,ropt.rty. In
tilt flitur, the plat ce n ill he klo i, .a
iTh, El-httri, Park.' so ,tallhl it
canse of thle tact that Mr. Fo-ter ha,
'decided to illunliiliate ilhe groulnl. .o
as to mlakie thit as hri{ht a.s day )ion
iall o a;lions a iTen the park is topen
toi the pubhlic. (nilt lhousand intlan
(1os.1 nt lights are to it placed abouil ti
- the rouitiils. .Mr. P'o.ter's son. Alvin
Foster. ( ill Ih the le nanaller lof tlhe
placel , and it i5 the iuterton of thiose
goentleinh n ito iiake the park a tlopti
lar fallll\ rosort, providilng h o1h-cla.
ent,-rtainmint and lianitaining the
bi-t of ordeir.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
• iordine to requirlemelt of an act
of ('oniress of .lagt,.t 24thi. 1i12. I)r.
t'. V. Kraft hereby Iliake the tolhlto
inT aidllavit: That he is editor and
proprietor of The hIerald. ai weekl)
twlsiapiller pintlisht-ed at New I lrleans.
La. That he is the sole ow ner itf th i
;Iapt r. that it is not o neit tl i- any
corporation. That there are iio mort
cage or security holders and that no
other er person. association or tcorpllora-.
Iion has anyi interest direct or in
direct in the said tHerald. 1
Sworn to and subscribted biefore mni.
this 2:id day of March. 1916;.
l(OI(ERT E. O(CONNER,
(Seal ) Notary lPublic.
MAYOR BEHRMAN TO SPEAK.
The regular De'mor rati organization .
will hold thtir final .ia.,s Ii 'tii. u it I
the Elmira Pleasure groundl to-iiicl:.
The principle eature of the imeetinl
will be an address by Mayor Martin -
llehrman. Other prominent speakers ii
are also scheduled to take part. The S
arrangement ctotanitee for the affair
have announced that there will he the
usual fireworks, tar barrel bonfires (
and a tine hand of nimsic. This . ill
be the final rally before election., -
which takes place oni Tuesday. April F
I thi . A
JAMES O. STEWART SURPRISED
On last Thursday night the Algiers
Lotto Club came in a body to the T
residence of Mr. James O. Stiewart
and gave himn a genuine surprise. the
occasion being the birthday of Mr.
Stewart. There was a cake presented Ii
to Mr. Stewart by the gathering but la
it had no candles on it for the fact
Mr. Stewart has always guarded with
a great amouPnt of zealousness the At
number of years he has been on this II
earth. In his address to the crowd, Fi
he said that if James \hltcomi Riley 
refuses too ell his age le had as tmuch
right as the Indiana poet. The usuial
gaines of lotto were omitted for the
evening, and dancing and refresh
ments took their place.
GETS BIG CONTRACT.
Mr. J. E. lHuckins. our local wall
paper man, has just secured a large dr
contract for decorating several large
stores on Canal Street, the principal !
one being at the corner of ('anal and tl
Royal, and the Hill building. The con- la
tract for this work runs up iin hig
money, and Mr. Huckins secured the i(jl
business over many other competi
tors. The work calls for special ar- Lu
tistic decorations and fresco work. It *1
will require twenty or thirty men to Cu
:complete the contract. Mr. Huckins Ia
was very much delighted when he m
was awarded the business. wi
FIVE ACTS OF VAUDEVILLE. Mt
To-morrow night the Ladies' Auxilll.
ary of the Alhambra Gymnastic ClubFr
will hold a genuine Orpheumn show at
the Folly Theater, and the principle
features of the evening's performance
will be five acts of vaudeville, as fol
lows: Guy McCormick, Cliff Wine
hill, accompanied by Jos. Verges; two
acts from the police minstrels, the coi
Juvenile Orchestra and some other tal
attractions. Besides this there will be Jut
the regular pictures. ho
There will be two separate and dis- ki
tinct shows to-morrow night, and thi
hose who do not avail themselves for op
:he first show will have to wait until
he completion of the first show being mc
elng entered into the second show. coi
rhe following committee is in charge In
f the entertainment: Mrs. 3. E. wa
"uckins, chairlady; Mrs. Frank Gal- teu
ni, Misses Adriel and Grace Lennox, to
7i lInM Tuft, Mrs. Harry T. Ma. of
e -s- d Mr. C. V.Krat. sal
T!a c I1 I- { .l;. .\rl i ". .
1( " . - - . , . . . I t :o r
S * i til , , .
ohe tr 1t, r . , : ', , . I Ni , , \I '* ., '.. K l- ,
h t'1r 1 " l \i n . h p. : IW I .l
It;- I.-ia'
h to I ,' |t "F:l. ,l It aI li I. "ct. ,,". ,;i ,l
Ul ( hl: \tit ct . ; Iý- :' l )i \, lit- ,' < ( ' -
1a l't , ,at. ,t-l . t . %, ,'1 " ' ! 1 i, : ,in -
In !I i aý S l : t.~ k. pI - ' I, l." . ' \~l l
S J. S. C.
)ti
T I 't t'hi l' t ,i, ' I e 't '',- I\. .I t:1
"of M; r cll.. I- lu-ally i' h I1 ly -' t' iot
n lheir acliair,. tl I rhn'd oul t1) it. a r'.eli
for oth , l ,:p ,iir . s allrt l t '.ll .A tlh.
it tIt l , ill : c'I E'llt'lt. l t tlhe Ut l sial
s ' ~l',tliolt by i tll,' s.hr:rllt,,rs Ihul l feI
* I r, ll ll UT h";arti api,|lause. "IT;'.
(' alr·hy l ) lut ..tor .. .\ outhirn Plalntla -
i .Mur, h i" a l D nlapl o l!orn mllrl! .
:. T .he tl r attrc tifint-. e at'r' lso 4 ,'l
Srecreived.
. .\ftI er ti!. -,,{ )nlt l ttt .';: w" th\ . II r .I ti ,
.of c i' Shrinrs' liand rc'.laired to the
5. lbroons. iho e litr rlter.Eshlilen lts wclr.
Sse.rved thetni. and a rotpl. cf pl-as
Sanilt o .icrsl- a c ;e t. aftel r chith lith.
) clin tdeiartlt-i they .expre'-. l then)l
1- scl'c's hiighly a rtler iatiwe of thlcir
, .Xl;ic.rs fri'ndi..l" st, lability mnl hos
lpitality.
ROLL OF HONOR.
McDonogh No. 4 School.
S A- -Sc'holrsthip-John Shwarzen
bach.
, II--S, holarship and I)eportne rt
I )teporti l-nt -- Eldred lr. N it'lv.
. 1i - Stholar-hip antd I)'etlartnent
i n -.hJselh Hvlan. Jamtes -'-illt'ry. lhe'hr
s uan l"ren.h. Georre Hau. Prantis
A Shdler. Ilart S'hwarzelichatll.
r ; .L- Sr-httlar'.hil, and Ileporl mnt
Gainets ;ilder. Fl"ix t'.\nespy.
S'ludthe I.e ourt. i .leveland I o) nis.
*; bI -St'holarshit and I,.cporltmnt
- .lilton .rek er. .\nel Shirk. Joseiph
I Fol.e. Evans .uahonat. ('harles l.ebr.
Alvin Ileitlmeier, A.ndrew luniff. Ed
ward Wvilliams.
S4 A- Scholarship and Iitportnment
--Louis ('ronan. Ilorrae larris. ('lar
Bertrand Peck.
S--holarshiolar- Joselp--h trantga.
IDeclortment--Sid ney S'waitne. Wil
liam Ka'snmer. Dt)lnmas Petrie. \Val
lace Marcour.
4 ll-Stholarship and Dleportment
- James Cousins. Alvin Covell, Peterd
Anderson. Milton Henry. Harry
Lewis. Roy Tagert e . Joseph (labrise
Floyd I'nback. Joseph lBrutne. Millard
Schindler.
Deportment - John Poucher. Otis
Meyers. Robert Talbot. Henry Burlet.
1 A--Scholarship and Deportment
-Henry Gregary. Louis Broussard.
Malcolm Schwarzenbac.h, William
laeorge, Leeonard C(hauvin.
i Deportment-Lawrence Wsille'.
Scholarship- Alvin [ellant. A.E
drew McQuillan.
: B--Scholarship and D)eportment
-JLulian Humphrey, William Entwis
lie, Frank Lawson. Joseph Suthoer
rland.
SI)eportment--John Hlunn. iee Bing.
l(harles Gerrets.
I A- Scholarship- Lyle Albrecht,
Luclen Ahyson. Mark Amuedo. Faler
.rmilage. Wellman Bond. l)outiglas
('urran, Oakley Dodd. Thomas Duffy.
James Fatares, Rlatmond Grund
meyer. Emile Ilantel. Osborn Huntcor,
William Ilynes, Jerome Mine. Charles
Nichols, iHugh OKeefe. Prank Nugier.
Melvin Person. Marcel Roth. Joe \Viil
more,. Bill Short.
1 B- Scholarship-Lynn Angaelo,
Frazer Koeppel. A. L. Redon. Vincent
Trauth.
FRlED LE('O hiT HURT.
On Tuesday afternoon Fred Le
court was kicked by a horn, e and was
taken to the hospital. here his in
juries were pronounced serious. The
horse, which belonged to Jio. Hintz.
kicked Lecourt in the right side,
three ribs being broken. He was
operated on at once.
The accident happened in Com
mon street near St. Charles. Le
court, in company with his brother- curi
In-law, Jos. Hourcade, was on his day
way to ship some hogs. He had got- cott
ten out of the wagon and was about by
to get back in again when, in the act Ma,
of taking the reins off the horse, the col
anlmal kicked him. $1(%
Holmes 74th Birthday
Sale Continues During
the Week
uI uall ll:l ll u c , ., ',
ri m n : . t' . Jchti! ,i I . th,
WARNING
tvc l i tII" r iI .-,% .v. 11 , h11,,\ It : ftl. ,:xing,
. ', a\ t 1 \i NI : ti iu, , t I, . .lia rk: II..
D.H. Holmes Co.
P,u. N- Yorl. LIMITED Establis
Berlin, Lndon and Florl nca.
A R ! ,8.
Warm Weather Is Coming.
Oil Lamps and Other Lighting Add More
Heat
Electric Light is Hleat Proof
ALGIERS RAILWAY & LIGHTING CO.
222 ELMIRA AVENUE
PHONE ALGIERS 151 SALESMAN WILL CALL
RENT A G00D PIANO FOR YOUR SUMMER HOME
\V- furnish fi:ne instruments a1 reasonable rate- Or have us tune
your piano. r,':eilate' thi a4tioi, rest|or.- the' tinis hI ahil supply any
niedeid part
PHONE OR CALL FOFk ESTIMATES
Successors to Cable Piano Co. STREET
Test Your Own Eyes
W ITH OUR NEW MACHINE EYE TEST
ER (Patent Applied For), which has a
complete assortment of all the different
strength lenses mounted in a revolving wheel,
you can, by actual trial yourself, select a pair
of Reading Glasses that will give you perfect
comfort and satisfaction.
Wecan furnish any style fram evou may se
lect, at low prices.
You nieed a pair of Glasses now. Come in at
once and let us demonstrate this new practical
Machine Eve Tester.
ElLUPP, Dru.gist
I-r c I 1I I I I l IIa IlIn I lll
FIRES.
A supposed incendiary fire. or
curred shortly after midnight Thurs
day in Algicrs, destroying the louble
cottage, 41,-.21 Bringler street, o. nel
by Lilly D. Rose. and occupied by
Martha Phenix and John Brooks, all
colored. The loss is estimated at
$1050, with no insurance. A Jug con
Itaim if ril a= In r i.- h'. yard
th'. Ticrf rri-4-ý.
lay nmornin:. Thn efltPrIq also avers
damamrf I $'.. Th.: fire or:Sirn:·.d In
a washroro.u an-! the au~e 'wa.; not
asrertalned. The loss is cover.i d by
insurance.
