State Historical Society
1ANEY
OUNTY
EPUBLICAN
Four Pages.
Vol. 21. No 21.
FORSYTH, MISSOURI, THURSDAY, APRIL (5, 1916.
BLUNDERS OF THE
imn
Wilson Has Failed In Foreign
and Domestic Policies.
ROOT SHOWS HIS ERRORS,
Addresi as Temporary Chairman of
New York Republican Convention
Points Out Sins of Democratic Com
mission and Omission "We Have
Lost Influence Because We Have
Been Brave In Words and Irresolute
In Aotion."
In his address n.s temporary chair
liinn of I lip Now York state ltopubli' an
convention, delivered in Carnegie Hall.
New York, lie Hun. Elihu Boot wild:
We n'v entering upon u contest for
tlio clci tiou of a president niul the eon
trol of government under conditions
essentially iiow in the experience of
onr party and of our country. The
forms nnd methods which we are
about to follow are old mid familiar,
hut the grounds for action, the demand
of groat events for decision upon tin
tioiial conduct, the morn! forces urg
ing to n solution of vaguely outlin
ed quest ions, the trenieudoiis con
sequences of wisdom or folly in nation
al policy, till these lire new to the great
mass of American voters now living.
Never since lSi',1 has mi election been
fraught with consequences so vital to
liationnl life. All the ordinary consid
erations which play bo great a part in
our presidential campaigns are and
ought to lie dwarfed iulo insignificance.
Democratic Party to the Bar.
For tlio first time in twenty years we
enter the Held ns the party of opposi
tion, and indeed it U n much longer
time, for In l.s'.H!, in all respects save
the tariff, the real opposition to the
sturdy and patriotic course of Presi
dent Cleveland was to he found In the
party that followed Mr. Bryan. It Is
our duty as the opposition to bring the
Iemooralie party to the bar of public
judgment, to put it uton Its defense
no far as we see Just and substantial
grounds to criticise its conduct and to
ask the voters of the country to decide
whether that party, organized as It is.
represented ns It has been since it
came Into power, has shown Itself
competent to govern the country ns it
should be governed and whether Its
spirit, Its policies, and Its performance
are the best that the American people
can do in the way of pipular self gov
ernment. In the field of domestic affairs some
facts relevant to these quest tons had
already been ascertained when In Au
gust. 1011, the great European war
began. During the year and a half of
Democratic control of government In
n period of profound peace there had
been u steady decrease in American
product ion. In exports and in revenues
nnd a steady Increase in imports and
expenditures. Enterprise had halted.
The Democratic tariff had been framed
upon an avowed repudiation of all pro
tection, however moderate nnd reason
able, and because oil protection was
repudiated practically all Information
from competent witnesses as to the ef
fect new provisions would have upon
business was rejected. It was with
Just cause that the enterprise of the
country halted, timid and Irresolute,
because it felt nnd feared the hostility
of government.
Foreign Competition After War.
The great war lias not changed the
lesson which we had already learned
when it begun. It lias hut obscured
further demonstration. It has caused
nn enormous demand for some things
which the United Slates is able to pro
duce in large quantities, and In these
lines of production, while other Indus
tries still languish, there have been ex
tensive cniploymci.t of labor, great ex
ports and n great Influx of money.
But this is temporary. It must soon
cease, and when the factories have
stopi-d nnd their laborers are no
longer employed we must deal with
situation for which wise forethought
should make provision. More Impor
tant still, the war has paralyzed the
peaceful industries of nil Europe and
has stopped that conietitive foreign
product Ion which In July, I'.HJ. had al
ready entered American markets to
supersede American products under
the tariff law of 1913. The war has
thus given to American products an
Immunity from competition far more
effective than any possible protective
tariff. Rut that Is temporary, and
when the war Is over, when foreign
production iH'gins agulitT the American
market compared with Inipoverlshcl
Europe will 1e more than sver before
the object of desire and effort, and wi
shall liecome the dumping ground of
the world to the destruction of our
own industries unless that Is prevented
by ti wise and competent government.
How Can & Defend Ourselves?
I'.ut It Is not from domestic ques
tion that the most dlilicult problem
of this day arise. The events of the
Jast fev jcors have, taus&t. jjj. ttsflJUL
lessons. We have learned that civiliza
tion is but a veneer thinly covering the
savage nature of man. How can this
nall'in. which loves peace and Intends
justice, avoid the curse of militarism
and at the same t line preserve its in
dcpiidencc. defend its territory, pro
tect the lives and liberty nnd proper
ty of its citizens? How can we pre
vent the same principles of action, the
same policies of conduct, the same
forces of military power which lire ex
hibited in Europe from laying hold
upon the vast territory and practically
undefended wealth of the new world?
Have we still national ideals? Will
anybody live for them? Would any
oody die for them? Or are we all fur
rase and comfort and wealth at any
price? Confronted by such questions
as these and the practical situations
which give rise to theiu. Is the coun
try satislled to trust Itself again In the
hands of the Democratic party?
Impotent Inteference In Mexico.
The United Stales had lights ami
duties in Mexico. More than Iii.mhi of
our citizens had sought their fortunes
and made their homes there. A thou
sand millions of American capital 1 1:1 1
been invested in that productive coun
try. I'.ut revolution had come, and
factional warfare was rife. Americans
had been murdered, American proper
ty had been wanlonly destroyed, the
lives nnd property of all Americans In
Mexico were In danger. That was the
situation when Mr. Wilson became
president in March, l'.il.'l. His duty
then was plain. It was, llrst, to use
his powers as president to secure pro
tection for the lives nnd property of
Americans in Mexico and to require
that rules of law and stipulations of
treaties should be observed by Mexico
toward the United States and its citi
zens, nis duty was. second, ns the
head of a foreign power to respect the
Independence of Mexico, to refrain
from nil Interference with her Internal
affairs, from all attempt at domina
tion except as lie was justified by the
law of nations for the protection of
American rights. The president of the
I'hlled States failed to observe either
of those duties. He deliberately aban
doned them both nnd followed nn en
tirely different and Inconsistent pur
pose. Ho Intervened in Mexico to aid
one faction in civil strife against an
other. Ho undertook to pull down
Iltierta and set Carrnnza up In his
place. Arms and munitions of war
were freely furnished to the northern
forces and withheld from llnerta.
Finally the president sent our army
and navy to Invade Mexico niul cap
ture Us great seaport. Yera Cruz, nnd
hold it nnd throttle Mexican commerce
until Hiiertn fell.
Americans Outraged In Mexico.
The government of the United States
intervened Its Mexico to control the In
terna! affairs of that 'ndopendent coun
try and to enforce the will of the
American president In those affairs by
threat, by economic pressure nnd by
force, of nrins. Upon what claim of
ri'.'ht did this intervention proceed?
Not to secure respec t for American
rights, not o protect the lives or prop
erty of our citizens, not to a.ssert the
laws of nations, not to compel observ
ance of the law of humanity. On the
contrary, Iluerta's was the only power
In Mexico to which appeal could lie
made for protection of life or property.
That was the only power which. In
fact, did protect cither American or
European or Mexican. It was only
within the territory where llnerta
rilled that comparative peace and or
der prevailed. The territory over
which tlio tinned power of Cnrranza
and Villa and their associates extended
was the theater of the most appalling
crimes. Bands of robbers roved the
country with unbridled license. Amer
icans and Mexicans alike were lit their
mercy, and American men were mur
dered and American women were out
raged with impunity. Thousands were
reduced to poverty by the wanton de
struction if the industries through
which they lived. Yet the government
of tin? United States Ignored, con
doned, the murder of American men
and the rape of American women nnd
destruction of American property and
insult to American otllccrs and defile
ment of the American Hag and Joined
itself to the men who were guilty of
all these things to pull down the pow
er of llnerta. Why? The president
himself has told us. It was because
he adjudged llnerta to be a usurper,
because he deemed that the common
people of Mexico ought to have great
er participation in government and
share In the land, nnd he believed thai
Carranza and Villa would give them
these things. We must all sympathize
Willi these sentiments, but there Is
nothing more dangerous than mis
placed sentiment.
When our army landed at Vera Cruz
Carranza himself, who was to be the
chief bcneliciary of the act. publicly
protested against it. So strong was
the resentment that he could not have
kept his followers otherwise. When
llnerta had fallen the new government
which for the day had succeeded to
his place rcrciuptori!y demanded the
withdrawal of the American troops.
The universal sentiment of Mexicans
required the peremptory demand, and
the troops were withdrawn. Still
worse than that, the taking of Vera
Cruz destroyed confidence In the sin
cerity of the American government In
Mexico, because every Intelligent mail
iu Mexico belie1 ed that the avowed
reason CjJJif fief, waj uoj the, issi
reason. The u vowed purjHise was to
compel a salute to the American Hag.
Three hundred Mexicans were report
ed killed: seventeen United States ma
rines were killed and many were
wounded. At that very time Mr. Bry
ii is. with the president's approval, was
signing treaties with half the world
agreeing that if any controversy should
arise it should be submitted to a Joint
Commission nnd no action should be
taken until after a full year had elaps
ed. This controversy, slight us it wan.
arose on the sith of April, and on the
Ulst of the same month Vera Cruz
was taken. With the occupation of
Vera Cruz the moral power of the
United States iu Mexico ended. We
were thi n and we are now hated for
what we did to Mexico, and we were
then and we are now despised for our
feeble and irresolute failure to protect
. . r . .... -the
lives and rights of our citizens.
flog Is so dishonored and no citizenship
bo little worth the claiming In Mexico
as ours. Aud that Is why we have
failed in Miilco.
Policy of "Watchful Waiting."
Incredible as It seems, llnerta had
been turned out by the assistance of
the American government without any
guaranties from the men who were to
be set up in his place, und so the mur
dering and burning and ravishing have
gone on to this day. After llnerta
had fallen and the Vera Cruz expedi
tion had been withdrawn I'resldent
Wilson announced that no one was
entitled to interfere iu the affairs of
Mexico; that she was entitled to settle
them herself. He disclaims all re
sponsibility for what happens In Mex
ico and contents himself with a pol
icy of watchful wailing. And for the
death and outrage, the suffering and
ruin of our own brethren, the hatred
Hid contempt for our country nnd the
dishonor of our name In that land the
administration at Washington shares
responsibility with the inhuman brutes
with w hom It made common cause.
When we turn to the administra
tion's conduct of foreign affairs inci
dent to the great war Iu Europe we
cannot fall to perceive that there Is
much dissatisfaction among Ameri
cans. Dissatisfaction is not In llself
ground for condemnation. The situ
ation created by the war has been dilll
cult und trying. Much of the corre
spondence of the stale department,
especially since Mr. Lansing took
charge, lias been characterized by ac
curate learning and i-killl'ul statement
of spcollle American rights.
Three Errors In European Policy,
A study of the administration's pol
icy toward Europe since July, Ibl-l.
reveals three fundamental errors: First,
the lack of foresight to make timely
provision for backing up American di
plomacy by actual or assured military
and naval force; second, the forfei
ture of the world's respect for our as
sertion of rights by pursuing the policy
of making threats and failing to make
them g 1; third, n loss of the moral
forces of the civilized world through
failure to truly interpret to the world
tl:o spirit of the American democracy
In its attitude lov.'ard the terrible
ev ents whli h accompanied the early
stages of the war.
First, as to power:
When the war In Europe began, free,
peaceable little Switzerland Instant!)
mobilized upon her frontier a great
army of (ruined clll;:cii soldiers. Stur
dy little Holland did the Mime, ami
both hao kept their territory and their
independence ln iolnte.
Great, peaceable America was further
removed from the conflict, but her
trade nnd her citizens traveled on ev
ery sea. Ordinary knowledge of Eu
ropean affairs made it plain that the
war was begun not by accident, but
with purpose which would not soon be
relinquished. ' Ordinary knowledge of
military events made It plain from the
moment when the tide of German Inva
sion turned from the buttle of the
Marne that the conflict was certain to
lie long ami desperate. Ordinary knowl
edge of history of our own history
during the Napoleonic wars made It
plain that In that conflict neutral rights
would be worthless unless powerfully
maintained.
The Democratic government at Wash
ington did not see it. Others saw It,
and their opinions found voice. Mr.
Gardner urged it. Mr. Lodge Urged If.
Mr. Stimson urged It, Mr. Iloosevelt
urged It, but their argument and ur
gency were ascribed to political mo
tives, and the president described them
with a sneer as nervous and excited.
Wilson Hat Shifted Ground.
But the warning voices would not be
stilled. The opinion that we ought no
longer to remain defenseless became
public opinion. Its expression grew
more general and Insistent, and finally
the president, not lending, but follow
ing, has shifted his ground, has revers.
ed Ids position and i.sks the country to
prepare against war. Clod grant that
he be not too Into. Put the Democrat
ic party has not shifted Its ground. A
large part of Its members In congress
are endeavoring now to sidetrack the
movement for national preparedness,
to muddle it by amendment and turn
it Into channels which will produce the
least possible result In the Increase of
national power of defense. What
sense of effectiveness In this effort can
i we gather from the presence of Jose-
phus Daniels at the most erltlrnl post
of all the head of the navy depart
mentwhen we see that where
i preparation has been possible It hai
riot been made, when we see that con
struction of warships already author
ized has not been pressed ami Iu some
cases alter long delay has not even
been begun?
If an Increase of our country's power
to defend Itself against aggression is
authorized by the present congress it
must bo largely through Bopubliean
vote.:, because all the traditions and
convictions of that party are for na
tional power and duly and honor.
As to the policy of threatening words
without deeds:
When Germany gave notice of her
purpose to sink merchant vessels on
the high seas without safeguarding the
lives of Innocent passengers our gov
ernment on the Pith of February one
year ago informed Germany In unmis
takable terms that In attacking and
sinking vessels of the United States
nnd In destroying the lives of American
citizens lawfully traveling upon mer
chant vessels of other countries she
would act at her peril. They pledged
the power and courage of America,
with her hundred million people and
her vnt wealth, to the protection of
her citizens, as during nil her history
through the days of her youth and
weakness she had protevtel them.
On tlieMh of March the passenger
... . ,
steamer Fnlaha was torHdoed by a
Gorman submarine and an American
citizen was killed, but nothing was
done. On the U-St li of April the Amer
ica", vessel dishing was attacked and
crippled ly a German aeroplane. On
the 1st of May the American cssel
Gullllght was torpedoed and sunk by a
German submarine and two or more
Americans w ere killed, yet nothing was
done. On the "til of May the Lnsita
nlu was torpedoed and sunk by a tier
man submarine and more than Pi
Americans and I.ltNi other nnnooni
batants were drowned. The very thing
which our government had warned
Germany she must not do, Germany
did of set purpose and In the most iu
tetnptuous and shocking way. Then,
when all America was stirred to the
depths, our government addressed an
other note to Germany. It re tea ted
Its assertion of American rights and
renewed Its Isild declaration of pur
pose. It declared again that the Amer
ican government "must hold the Im
perial German government to a strict
accountability for tiny Infringement of
those rights, intentional or incidental,"
and It declnied that It would not "omit
any word or any net necessary to the
I'crfonnnnce of Its sacred duty of main
mining the rights of the Unlled States
ami Its citizens and of safeguarding
their free exercise and enjoyment."
Still nothing was done nnd a long
and technical correspondence ensued,
haggling over petty questions of de
tail, every American nnln growing less
and less string and peremptory until
the Arabic was torpedoed and sunk
and more American lives were destroy
ed, and still nothing was done, and
the correspondence continued until the
allied defense against German subma
rine warfare made It unprofitable und
led to Its abandonment, and the cor
respondence Is apparently approaching
its end without securing even that par
tial protection for the future which
might be found iu an admission thai
the destruction of the Liisilauia whs
forbidden by law. The later cone
spnudclicc has been conducted by our
state department, witli dignity, but It
has been futile. All admission (if Ha
bllily for damages has been secured,
but the time for real protection to
American rights has long since passed.
The brave words with which we be
gan the controversy bad produced no
effect, because they were read in the
light, of two extraordinary events.
One was the report of the Austrian
ambassador, Mr. Diimbii, to his gov
eminent, that when the American note
of Feb. to was received he asked the
secretary of state, Mr. P.ryan, whether
It meaut business und received an an
swer which satisfied Idm that It did
not, lint was Intended for effect at
home In America.
"Too Proud to Fight."
The other event was the strange and
unfortunate declaration of the presi
dent in a public speech In Philadelphia
the fourth day after the sinking of
the Lusltauhi that "a man may be too
proud to fight." Whatever tlio Aus
trian ambassador was In fact told by
the secretary of state, the Impression
which he reported was supported by
the events which followed. Whatever
the president did mean, Ids declaration,
made in public at that solemn time,
amid the horror and mourning of nil
our people over the murder of their
children, was accepted the world over
as presenting the attitude of the Amer
ican government townrd the protection
of the life nnd lllierty of American
citizens In the exercise of their Just
rights, and throughout the world the
phrase "too proud to fight" became a
tyword of derision and contempt for
the government of the Unlled States.
Later. In another theater of wnr-the
Mediterranean-Austria, and perhaps
Tnr'jey also, resumed the practice.
The Anemia and then the 1'ersin were
destroyed, and more Americans were
killed. Why should they not resume
the practice? They had learned to be
lieve that, no matter how shocked the
American government might lie, Its
resolution would expend Itself In
words. They had learned to lielleve
that It was sufe to kill Americans, and
the world believed with them.
Shaking Fist and Finger.
No man should draw a pistol who
dares not shoot. The government that
shakes its list lirst and its finger after
ward falls Into contempt. Our diplo
macy lias lost its authority and Influ
ence because we have been brave In
words and Irresolute in action. Men
may say that the words of our diplo
matic notes were justified; men may
say that our inaction was Justified, but
no man can say that both were wise
and creditable.
I have said that this government lost
the moral forces of the world by not
truly Interpreting the spirit of the
American democracy.
The American democracy stands for
something more than beef and cotton
and grain and manufactures; stands
for something that cannot be measured
by rates of exchange and does not rise
or fall with the balance of trade. The
American people, informed by their
own experience that is confirmed by
their observation of international life,
have come to see that the Independence
of nations, the liberty of their peoples.
Justice and humanity cannot bo main
tained upon the complaisance, the good
nature, the kindly feeling of the strong
toward the weak; that real independ
ence, real liberty, cannot rest upon suf
ferance; that pence and liberty can be
preserved only by the authority and
observance of rules of national con
duct founded upon the principles of
Justice nnd humanity; only by tlio es
tablishment of law among nations, re
sponsive to I he enlightened public opin
ion if mankind. To tbem liberty
means not liberty for themselves alone,
hut for all who are oppressed. Justice
means not Justice foj themselves
alone, but a shield for all who are
weak against the aggression of tlio
strong.
To this people the Invasion of Bel
gium brought a shock of amazement
and horror. If the public opinion of the
world was to remain silent upon that,
neutral upon that, then all talk about
peace and Justice and International law
and the rights of man, the progress of
humanity and tie spread of liberty Is
Idle patter, mere weak senfrmeiitallty;
then opinion Is powerless and brute
force rules and will rule the world. If
no difference is recognized between
right and wrong then there it re no
moral standards. There come times iu
the lives of nations as of men when to
treat wrong as If It were right is trea
son to the tight.
The Wrona Done to Belgium.
The American people were entitled
not merely to feel, but to speak con
cerning the wrong done to Itelgium.
It was not like Interference in the In
ternal affairs of Mexico or any other
nation, for thlsvas an International
wrong. The law protecting U.clgiuin
which was violated was our law and
the law of every other civilized coun
try. That law was the protection of
our peace and security. It was onr
safeguard against the necessity of
maintaining great armaments and
wasting our substance In continual
readiness for war. Moreover, that law
was written Into a solemn and formal
convention, signed and ratified by Ger
many and Itelgium and France nnd the
United States In which those other
countries agreed with ns that the law
should be observed.
There was no question here of inter
fering in the quarrels of Europe. We
hud a right, to be neutral, and we were
neutral as to tin! quarrel between Ger
many and France, but when as an In
cident to the prosecution of that
quarrel Germany broke the law which
we were entitled to have preserved
and which she had agreed with us to
preserve we were entitled to be heard
In the assertion of our own nntlonal
right.
Neutral Between Right and Wrong!
Yet the American government ac
quiesced In the treatment of Ilelgluni
find the destruction of the luw of na
tions. Without one word of objection
or dissent to the repudiation of law
or the drench of our treutor the vio
lation of Justice and humanity in the
treatment of Itelgium our government
enjoined upon the people of the Unite 1
States nn undlscrlmluntlng and all em
bracing neutrality, and the president
admonished the people that they must
be ueutrul In all respects In act nnd
word and thought and sentiment. We
were to lie not merely neutral ns to the
quarrels of Europe, but neutral as to
the treatment of Belgium, neutral be
tween right nnd wrong, neutral be
tween Justice and Injustice, neutral be
tween humanity and cruelty, neutral
between liberty and oppression. Onr
government did more than acquiesce,
for In the first Lnsltania note, with the
uiuqieukable horrors of tho conquest
of Belgium still fresh In our minds, on
the very day after the report of tho
Cryce commission on Belgian atroci
ties. It wrote these words to the gov
ernment of Germany:
Recalling the humane And enlightened
attitude hitherto assumed by the Imperial
Geriunn government In matters of Inter
national right and particularly with re
gard to the freedom of the seas, having
learned to rerounlze the German views
and the German Influence In the field of
international obligation as always engaged
upon the side of Justice and humanity, etc.
And so thp government of the United
States appeared as approving the treat
ment of Belgium. It misrepresented
the people of the United States In that
acquiescence and apparent approval.
It was not necessary that the Uuited
States shouM to war In deeu50
of the violated law. A single official
expression by the government of the
United States, a single sentence deny
ing assent and recording disapproval
of what Germany did in Itelgium,
would have given to the people of
America that leadership to which they
were entitled In their earnest groping
for tlio light. It would have ranged
behind American leadership the con
science and morality of tho neutral
world.
It was not to be. The American
government failed to rise to the de
mands of the great occasion. Gone
were tlio old love of justice, the old
passion for liberty, the old sympathy
with the oppressed, the oTd ideals of
an America helping the world toward
a better future, and there remained In
the eyes of mankind only solicitude for
trade and profit and prosperity.
Shrank From the Truth.
The American government could not
really have approved Hie treatment of
Belgium, hut under a mistaken policy
It shrank from speaking the truth.
Such policies us I have described are
doubly dangerous in their effect upon
foreign nations and In tliclr effect at
home. It Is a matter of universal ex
perience that a weak and apprehensive
treatment of foreign affairs Invites eu
ii'oa'iimcnt.s upon rights and leads to
situations In which It is dlilicult to
prevent wr, while a firm and frank
policy at the outset prevents dlilicult
situations from arising and tends most
strongly to preserve peace. On the
other hand, If a government is to be
strong In It.s diplomacy its own peo
ple must be ranged In its support by
leadership of opinion In a national
cause worthy to awaken their patri
otism and devotion.
We have not boon following the path
of peace. We have been Mindly stum
bling along the road that continued
w ill lead to inevitable war.
When our government failed to tell
the truth about Belgium it lost the
opportunity for leadership of the moral
sense of the American people and It
lost the power which a knowledge f
that leadership and a sympathetic re
sponse from the moral sense of the
world would have given to our diploma
cy. When our government failed to
make any provision whatever for do.
fending its tights in case they should
be trampled upon It lost the power
which a belief in It.s readiness and will
to maintain Its rights would have giv
en to its diplomatic representations.
When our government gave notice to
Germany that it would destroy Amer
ican lives and American ships nl its
peril our words, which would have
been potent If sustained by fdequate
preparation to make them good end by
the prestige and authority of the moral
leadership of a great people in a great
cause, were treated with a contempt
w hich should have been foreseen, and
when our government, failed to make
those words good its diplomacy was
bankrupt.
Upon the record of performance
which I have tried to describe will the
American people say that the Demo
cratle party Is entitled to be continued
In power?
The defects of the present adminis
tration arise from two distinct causes.
The first Is the temperament and train
ing of the president. The secon 1 is the
incapacity of the Demociatie party as
it is represented In Washington both
lu the legislative and In the executive
departments either to originate wise
policies or to follow them when pro
posed by others or to administer them
effectively If they are established. The
Democrats In congress are never con
trolled except with a club, and gov
ernment with a club is always spas
modic ami defective.
We must not deceive" ourselves by
assuming that the critical period aris
ing from the great war has passed.
The real dangers and the real tests of
the strength of our Institutions lie be
fore us. The most exacting demands
upon the wisdom, the spirit und tin
courage of our country are still to b:
made. In this great conflli t nil forms
of government are on trial, deinoi racy
wilh the rest. The principles of na
tional morality are on trial. We must
play our part In the universal trial
whether we will or no, for upon the re
sult depends directly the question
whether our republic can endure.
What Are People to Expect?
But what are the people to expect If
(he I'epublican party is restored to
power?
Tills much we can say now:
They may expect, with confidence,
that their government will meet tin
economic situation with which we
must deal Immediately upon tho dose
of the war, with n policy of moderate
hut adequate protection to American
Industry.
They may expect that the govern
ment will be administered with the
honesty and efficiency which have
marked republican administrations in
the past.
They may expect that tho best possl-
Wo course for the preservation of
peace will be followed by a foreign pol
' Icy which, with courtesy and friendll-'
ucss to nil nations. Is frank and fear
less and honest In Its assertion of
American rights.
They may expect that their govern
ment vvlll stand for full and adequate
preparation by the American people
for their own defense. Tho Republican
pnrty loves jieaie and hate war; It
abhors oud will never submit to mill-ttnuioiui-a
oa fag Tbret.) '
