THE BARRE DAILY TIMES
- VOL. XX NO. 19.
UAKKE, VERMONT, TIIUltSDAY, APRIL 0, 1010.
riMCE, ONE CEXT.
EACH SIDE WINS
IN GREAT CLASH
ON VERDUN LINE
French Captured Large Por
tion of the Position" North
of Avocourt, Known as
the Square Woods, After
Fighting Had Continued
All Night
'fire of tlio machine puns and bombs of
two Italian hydroaeroplanes, which flew
at an altitude of only 100 meters."
SEIZE BRAZILIAN SHIP.
GERMANS GAIN
AT ONE POINT
They Penetrated French Po
sitions Between Avocourt
and Bethincourt, but Met
Failure in Two Attacks
North of the Caillette
Wood, Says Paris War
Office
Paris, April 6. The French captured
a large portion of the position north of
Avocourt, known as the Square woods,
the war office announced to-day. The
ground was captured in the course of
fighting which continued all yesterday
afternoon and last night in the Verdun
region.
West of the Mouse the Germans pene
trated French positions at one point
along the Avocourt-Hethineourt line.
Two German attacks north of the Cail
lette wood were unsuccessful.
The French official statement last j
night was as follows:
"In Iicluium w destructive fire on the
enemy trenches in front of Steenstvaete
gave good results.
"North of the Aisne our artillery was
active between the Beati-Marais wood
south of Oraonne and Berrv-au-Bae.
"In the Argonne our artillery contin
ued to direct concentrated fires on the
wings and lines of communication on the
enemy s front, especially in tne region
of Montfaucon ond the alancourt wood
"West of the Meuse the day was'ealm.
To the east there was an intermittent
cannonade in the Douaumont-Vnux sec
tor. Xo infantrv action occurred in the
region of Verdun."
British Suspect She Was Trying to Run
the Blockade. .
London. April 0. The Brazilian steam
er Naldanha De Garma, which sailed from
I'ara, Brazil, Feb. II for New York with
a cargo of 120 tons of raw rubler, has
Ix'i'ii seized off the Orkney islands by a
British patrol Imm t. The ship and her
cargo have been placed in tlio prize court.
This is believed to lie a deliberate case
of attempted blockade running, the otli
eials here contending that m steamer
from Para for New York could never
have, gotten so far off her course. This
is the first seizure made by the admiral
ty of a complete cargo of rubber.
NO WARNING
WAS GIVEN
The British Steamship Kent
Was Torpedoed Off
Fastnet
ST. ALBANS BLOCK
WAS DAMAGED
OVEK . $20,000
ZEPPELIN DRIVEN OFF.
But Succeeded in Dropping Some Bombs
On England.
London, April It. A Zeppelin attack
ed the northeast coast of Kngland about
5:50 o'ciock Wednesday night, but was
driven off by the anti-aircraft defenses.
The official announcement says that some
bombs were dropped, but there is no in
formation yet as to the casualties or
damage.
FAMOUS SCOTCH ATHLETE.
Donald Dinnie Was the Most Renowned
Scotland Ever Produced.
London, April (5. The death has oe
urred in London of Donald Dinnie, re
garded by many as the greatest athlete
Scotland ever produced. lie was 70 years
of aire. DuritiL' his career he won 11,000
contests, which included wrestling, ham
mer throwing, running and jumping. Sev
eral of his victories were won in Amer-
HALF A HUNDRED
OF CREW MISSING
Only Nine Members
Capt. Martin Were
Landed
and
Qtieennfown, Ireland, April 6. The
British steamer Kent was torpedoed
without warning west of Fastnet. For
ty-eight members of the crew are miss
ing (and are supposed to have been
drowned. Two also were killed. Captain
Martin and nine members of the crew
were landed here.
U. S. GUNBOAT
IS ON GUARD
GERMANS TELL OF SUCCESS.
Have Stormed Village of Haucourt, Be
tween Avocourt and Bethincourt.
IScrlin. via London, April (!. German
troops have stormed the village of Hau
court on the Avocoiirt-Bethincourt front,
northeast of Verdun, the war office an
nounced to-day.
BRITISH VICTORY
ON THE TIGRIS
Captured Turkish Entrenched Positions
at Umm-el-Henna and Operations
, Are Continuing Successfully.
London, April fi. A victory for the
British over the Turks on the Tigris be
low Kut-el-Amara has been reported by
General Lake in command of the Brit
ish forces there. The Turkish entrenched
positions at Umm-el-Henna were at
tacked and carried at 5 o'clock yester
day morning by the. Tigris corps. On
oral Lake telegraphed, and the opera
tions are proceeding satisfactorily.
I'nim-el-Henna is on the Tigris river,
about 20 miles below Kut-el-Amara,
where a British force under Genertol
Townshend is beleaguered.
The capture of Umm-el-Hcnna. which
is on the Tigris, about 20 miles down
stream from Kut-el-Amara, is the most
important news from this theatre in
some time, ami is regarded here as giv
ing promise of the early relief of General
Townshend's force, which hag been le-
sieged in Kut-el-Amara since the first
week in December.
I'mm-el-lfenna is a strong position at
an important lend of the river and is
ha id to le the last serious barrier to the
relief of General Townshend, although
two or three less strong positions are
t-till to be overcome before Kut-el-Amara
is reached.
Protecting American and Other Foreign
Interests at Swatow, China, Where
Revolutionaries Are in
Control.
Amoy, China, April ft. Revolutionaries
have the entire city of Swatow in their
possession nnd business is at a standstill.
The native population is reported to be
panic-stricken, as they fear an attack by
government troops from Canton. The
American gunboat Wilmington is pro
tecting foreign interests at Swatow.
HULBURD A CANDIDATE.
Seeks to Be Lieutenant-Governor of Ver
mont.
Hyde Park, April 0. Roger W. Hul
burd of this town has announced his
candidacy for lieutenant-governor of Ver
mont in the following letter to. the Bur
lington Free Press:
The art of soliciting official position
for one's self is a fine one, and I have
never acquired it. 1 wish, however, to
announce through your columns that I
shall be a candidate for lieutenant-governor
at our September primaries. In
making this announcement, I am not
moved to set forth in detail my political
creed.
"I believe, however, in Vermont, am
proud of her past and confident as to
her future. I believe in the Republican
party, e.m proud of its record, ami be
lieve that it has a future that will be
even greater and grander than its past
I believe in the gospel of business, that
labor should have its rights and capital
an opportunity, and that we should so
legislate that we leave unhampered ev
ery honest industry and enterprise. Tin
man of force makes room for himself
and room for others. I believe in leav
ing undone the tilings that ought not to
be done not every change is an im
provement. "If elected with no 'entangling alli
ances,' I shall recognize no muster but
my state, nor shall I be embarrassed by
a growing hunger for further political
preferment. My ambition will be to keep
within the prescribed duties of the office
and be an acceptable lieutenant-governor."
ALLIED WARSHIPS
SANK SUBMARINE ;
CREW CAPTURED
French Ministry of Marine Announced
Last Night That French and Brit
ish Ships Destroyed One of
Their Sea Pests.
Taris, April 6. A German submarine
was sunk yesterday by a squadron of
French and British warships, the min
istry of marine announced last night.
The crew of the submarine were captured.
NO AMERICANS
LOST ON THE BAUS
But Four Persons Were Sacrificed When
Norwegian Steamer Was Sunk, -Presumably
By a Sub
marine. k
Washington, D. C, April 6. The Amer
ican consul at Havre reported to-day
that in the sinking of the Norwegian
teamer Bans, presumably by a subma
rine, four persons perished; but there
were no Americans on board.
ACCORDING TO RULE.
and
German - Submarine Warned Ship
Took Off All On Board.
Washington, D. C, April 6. American
Consul Frost at Queenstown cabled the
state department yesterday that the
British bark Bengaria, sunk off Fastnet
April 1. was destroyed by shell fire from
a submarine after ample warning had
been given and that all the rrew, includ
ing two Americans, were saved.
Odd Fellows' Hall Burned Out and Sev
eral Stores in Seymour Building Suf
feredFiremen Were Temporarily
Overcome by Smoke.
St. Albans, April 0. Fire which start
cd early this morning in the Seymour
building on the corner of North Main
and Kingman streets, did damage esti
mated at $20,000 to $23,0(10, pretty well
covered by insurance. But for the prompt
action of Miss Adwildu G. Lrmnah, night
operator in the central office of tho
Frunklin County Telephone Co., and the
quick response and hard work of the
firemen tho result would have been mora
serious.
At5 oVIock Miss Lemnah smellcd smoke
and, looking out of a window, she saw
flames shooting out of the windows in
the rear of the Seymour building into
the allevway between that building and
the Robert Seymour building, in which
are the telephone offices, just below, on
Kingman street. She notified the fire
department and tli-n telephon.d til's
owner of the burning structure and all
the people: who occupied stores, offices,
etc., in the building.
After 45 minutes of hard fighting, tho
fire was extinguished and - the recall
sounded. The firemen suffered from the
smoke and severul were overcome tem
porarily bv gas in trying to turn off tho
gas from a broken pipe. As fast ae one
man was overcome he waa relieved by
another until the gag was turned off.
John W. Alexander, who rooms in the
building, and who has been ill several
mouths, was taken down a ladder to the
street.
On the upper floor, where the fire broke
out, were the lodge rooms of the Inde
pendent Order of Odd fellows and tho
Independent Order of Foresters. The
kitchen arid robing room are a inns of
ashes. I he robes, all of which were
burned, ranged in value from $00 to $100.
The assembly ball was said to be tho
largest in the state. The piano and pool
table, which had rubber coverings, were
about the only articles of furniture
saved.
On the second floor are the offices of
State's Attorney S. S. dialling and State
Commissioner of Agriculture E. S. Brig-
ham. The damage there was not heavy.
In the northwest corner on the second
floor is the millinery parlor of Miss.M.
Alice Sheridan. -AH the goods were dam
aged by smoke and water. Much of the
new spring stock, amounting to several
hundred dollars, and uninsured, was I
ruined. On the south side, on the same
floor, is the store room of If. G. Fol
som & Co., who have a ehina and hard
ware store on the first floor. That loss
is not serious.
Besides the Folsom store the first floor
MAY ASK
U.S. ARMY
TO LEAVE
Carranza Government i n
Mexico Is Said to Look
of 40 or more mile a day he should have
reached and passed Parral by this time,
a fact which could hardly escape being
reported,
Bacliineva is on the eastern side of
the continental divide, about 30 miles
from Guerrero, with which it is connect'
ed by the famous Bacliineva pass. It is
through this pass that all accounts agree
Villa made his way after the defeat of
his followers bv Colonel Dodd near Guer-
rero. From Bacliineva to Satero the trail
runs about 70 miles through a broad,
well watered and fertile valley. On each
side of the valley , however, there
stretcha for many miles the wildest
mountain wastes in Mexico, an almost
ideal country for a fugitive. Thoroughly
to search this district would take weeks,
according to Americans who arc famiilar
with it.
UNDERGOING HARDSHIPS.
with Growing Disfavor On American Soldiers Have Hard Time in
Mexico.
Further Activity by the CoumnU!t, N- M April fi.Tale8 of tho
Americans in Pursuit of !l"df?l!,l .Anh.
through the mountains of Chihuahua
were brought here yesterday by arrival
with a truck train which had carried
supplies to Colonel Dodd's command.
Far from being the smart cavalrymen
who three weeks ago crossed into Mex
ico, the soldiers, their shoes ruined bv
WILL CONTINUE tIle 8,1RrP stones of the mountains and
their unitorms torn by brush, are wear
ing sandals made of cowhide and such
clothing as can be obtained from natives,
they declared.
It also was asserted that Colonel
Dodd's command had lost so many horses
Villa
MEANWHILE TROOPS
BUMPED CAR
RAN MAN DOWN
William Stephens Received
Horrible Injuries and
Died at Hospital
WAS STANDING BEHIND
A DETACHED CAR
Two Other Cars Shunted
onto Track Kicked F K
ing Car Over Ja
The De Facto Government
Believes That Presence of
Americans Is Proving
More and More Embar
rassingWashington Gets
the Report
William Stepb 0y ictter cutter, died
at the City ,1 last night at 8
o'clock from ti. effects of horrible in
juries which he received in tho yards of
the Central Vermont railroad north of
Granite street in the afternoon around
3:30 o'clock. With both lower limb
fractured above and below the knees, the
bone of the loft arm fractured anil tho
flesh terribly mangled when two wheel
in the relentless pursuit of the bandit of a derelict flat car ran over him , Steph-
chief that fully half the men were with
out mounts.
A truck train, under the command of
Captain C. I?. Drake, consisting of 27
trucks, went to within seven miles of
Guerrero, its erew being the first Amer
icans to meet the troopers of the 7th
cavalry after their engagement at that
town.
'The men were a nondescript crowd,"
said Captain Drake. "Their faces were
El Paso, Tex., April 6. Intimations in caked with gray alkali dust and they
Washington that the Carrama govern- had ben without regular rations for
. . . . . . . some daj-g. Coffee, salt and tobacco were
ment might soon indicate to the Amen- . . ' . ,. . ., , iU . .
beyond price, let through their hag-
can government that the troops pursuing ffard dirtiness, the men smiled and told
Villa futilely are following a cold trail of their resolute purpose the getting of
and that the de facto government would ilia.
BOTH SIDES ACCEPT
CONCILIATION
BOARD'S AID
SPAIN PROTESTS
Against the Torpedoing of Cross-Channel
Steamer Sussex.
Madrid, via Paris. April (i. The Span
ish government has sent a note to Ger
many in which protest is made against
the torpedoing of the French crns-chan-nel
steamer Sussex and the death of
Spanish subjects as a result, among them
Lnriqne Granados, the composer, and his I
wite.
The note also discusses the navigation
rights of neutrals.
Quincy Manufacturers and Cutters To Go
Before State Board in Effort to
Settle Their Differences of
Long Standing.
Quincy, Mass., April fi. Committees
representing the Granite Manufacturers'
association and the granite cutters' un
ion, polishers and tool sharpeners, meet
this afternoon at 2:30 with the state
lxiard of arbitration at the State House,
with a view to reaching an understand
ing on the iiue-tion which still nroli-ngs
the strike that began March 1.
This question is the length of time the
new bill of prices is to run. The manu
facturers desire a four-yejir agreement
and the workmen want a five-year con
tract. The state board of arbitration
offered its services a few days ago and
the otter was accepted by both sides.
goods store, and the damage from amoke
and water was heavy.
I he origin of the fire is not known.
but it is thought it started in the kitrh-
n of Odd Fellows lialL Bel evue Rebek-
ah lodge hd supper hi The hall last even
ing. The last person to leave the build
ing, at 12 o'clock, says there was no sign
of tire at that time.
The kitchen and robing rooms were
sheathed in hard pine which burned rap
idly, giving the flames a good start be
fore the lire was discovered.
welcome the return of the United States
troop -to their own country occasioned
no surprise to-day. There have been in
sistent reports here that the de facto
government looked with disfavor on the
further pursuing of Villa because the
presence of American troops on Mexican
soil was proving embarrassing.
Army officers here, however, say that
BEWARE OF THESE MEN.
They are Passing Forged Money Orders
On Merchants.
The Barre postoffioe has been asked
to warn merchants hereabouts against
two professional money order thieves,
who are passing on Xew England mer
chants money order forms numbers OiO
n 1 Don itnlon frnm fha Wnltl-o ulntion
while the difficulties of the pursuit have t',,e 'st, T . Mo ' tofflM. The
increased daily and that it may be weeks usual method employed is to purchase
before he is captured the Dursuit will be articles of merchandise for small
is occupied by Perron 4 Boivin'a dry4 , a j continued until word comes amounts and present in payment thereof
J. ,I., 1 1, J.imn,rn fv.tvn rv-wil- a J l . M t .f. t X,
from Washington to withdraw the troops. V , y T 7tL f V S
' IfhA nhan cm in ! oh Inn firinp nunal v
INSURANCE CASE WITH JURY
FUNERAL AT WILLIAMSTOWN.
AUSTRIAN'S RAIDED ITALY.
i
DIED IN CELL.
Ten Naval Aeroplanes Dropped Bombs in ; Patrick J. Kennedy Was a Milford, Mass.
Three Places. I Stonecutter.
That of Charles Brockway Was Held on
Wednesday.
Funeral services for Charles lirockway,
a well known Williamstown rural deliv
ery carrier, whose death Monday fol
lowed a long period of failing health,
were held at his home in that village
Wednesday afternoon at 1:30 o'clock.
Rev. AHert Abbott, pastor of the Meth-(Mii-t
church, officiating. The Warers
were: II. L. Piatt. C. V. Sivright. C lar
ence Clark anrl dames McMillan. Among
the floral tributes were carnations from
Mrs. F. R. Spencer. Mr. and Mrs. C. W.
Ilerlin. April fi, via w ireless to Tucker-j Worcester, Mas., April 6. Patrick J. 1 Clark, lilam-he lladlock. Mr. and Mrs.
ton, X. . I. The Austro-IItingarian adinir- j Kennedy, aged 40. of Milford, a granite C. W. Sivright. Mrs. Kate Il.iHlo.-k and
ity has issued the following comiiiuuii a- I cutter, died of heart dieae Tuesday J Mr. and Mrs. Frank Krcx-kway; 42 car
tioii under date of April 4: jnik'ht in a cell in the Worcester cnuntv j nations from Mr. Piatt and Mrs. Itrock-
Heplving to a visit of Italian aviators Ja'' on Summer street, to which he ha 1 jay; carnations from L. II. Dodge. Mrs.
to I-albach. AdellM'ig and Triest. an Ails-! iH'en committed Monday from the dis-il!? and Harvey Dodge. Interment
triit court in Millard to serve ten days
And That of Seth C. Rich vs. George H.
Cross Is Next.
Arguments commenced late yesterday
afternoon were completed late this fore
noon in Washington county court in the
eae of Jennie L. Jones vs. Mutual Life
Insurance Company of Xcw York, the
jury retiring for deliberation.
The case of Seth C. Rich, adm., vs.
George H. Cross, both pnrties being of
Northtield. will be started this after
noon. J he case is the result or an acci
dent which happened last summer on
Xorthfield street, Montpelier, when an
automobile driven bv George II. Cross
failed to stay in the highway, the car
plunging along in a ravine, throwing out
Mjs. Seth C. Rich and causing injuries
from which she died at Hoaton hospital
a few hours laterr-
The amount named in the suit is .$10,
0O0 and there is also another suit on the
docket. Seth C. Rich vs. George II. Cross,
alienation of affections being the cause,
the same amount being asked. Mr.
Cross is also under indictment by grand
jury for manslaughter, but it is possible
that the trial of the state case may tie
deferred until another term. Warren R.
Austin repreents the plaintiff and Frank
II. and Charles A. Plumlev the defend
ant.
Washington, D. C, April 6. General
Funston to-day asked the war depart
ment to send the recruits enlisted under
the recent authorization of 20,000 men,
to Brownsville, Tex., for distribution
among the border patrol regiments.
They will not lie sent across the border
but will rill up the regiments of the bor
der guards.
NO INFORMATION
FROM EXPEDITION
AT EL PASO kolJ teelh when lie talks-
presents letters of identification which
have been faked for the purpose and
early always takes his purchases with
him, but at times has ordered the goods
sent to some address.
In the cases so far discovered where
these money orders have been passed,
two men, answering to the following de
scription, have appeared: I he first is
about five feet ten inches in height, about
2.i years old, clean shaven and well
dressed, while his companion is some six
inches shorter, dark complexion, with
large dark eyes, and shows an array of
But It is Surmised That the Chase After
Villa Has Been Temporarily Halted
Mexican Officials at Juarer
Tell But Little.
El Paso, Tex., April 6. The entire
Mexican situation is veiled in obscuri
ty to-day, so far as the border is con
cerned. For three davs not a single
Mexican or American has arrived from
the interior, and the scanty news given
out bv Mexican officials at Juarez, as re-
FAILED TO AGREE.
Jury Dismissed in Eleanora Saia's Liquor
Case in City Court.
Repeated attempts to agree by ballot
ended in a final disagreement of the jury
in the rase of State vs. Mrs. Eleanora
Saia in citv court Wednesday afternoon
and after the jurymen had been dis
missed from further service, a retrial
was set for Friday morning. April 14, at
0 o'clock. Once, after retiring at 2:30
o'clock, the jury reported a disagreement,
only to be sent back to consider the evi-
ceived by telegraph, threw no new light tonce ftplin. All day long Attorneys R.
on the operations of the troops pursu- a. Hoar and A. G. Fav for the defense
ing Villa, beyond confirming the impres- Hn f;rHrij ,7uror Yjn'jam Wishart for
sion that the chase is practically halted, the prosecution had contested every
at least temporarily.
ens was rushed to the hospital in tha
Perry & oonan ambulance. The acci
dent occurred when Stephens, stepping;
aside from the main line track, which ho
was traversing, to the interchange, as
the connecting transfer between the Cen
tral Vermont and Montpelier & Wells;
River lines is called, was struck by an
empty tlat car tliat had been kicked,
along the track by the yard shifter.
Dr. Achille G. Paiement was the first
physician to reach the man's side and afj
jlie hospital the attendance of live doc
tors, Drs. J. W. Stewart, M. D. Lamb,
William McFarland, W. E. Lazell and
M. L. Chandler was required. Stephens
was removed at once to the operating
room, where the left leg was removed at
a point above the knee. The man rallied
fairly well from the anesthetic and the
amputation, but from the outset his case
w considered hopeless. Lntil the last
he retained consciousness, conversing
with John Daniels and Samuel Gerrard,
long-time acquaintances, who called ab
the hospital, until nearly 8 o'clock"
Station .Master J. 1.. II. t arr ordereil
an investigation of the accident soon
alter it occurred anil reported the cir
cumstances to the officials of the road ah
St. Albans. Railroad men in the yard
at the time, are in nowise blamed for tha
unfortunate occurrence.
According to the story told by a com
panion of Stephens, who was separated,
from the man shortly before the acci
dent. Stephens was walking southward
along the track when he stepped behind,
the flat car on the adjoining track. Rail
road men say that the locomotive was on.
the bridge just north of the Iffaekwell
street underpass, headed to the north,
with a string of 1.5 cars in its wake.
Conductor Frank Cassava was in charge
of the train, which was piloted by En
gineer William Chayer. Several car
down the line, one of the brakemen, W.
R. Gibbons, was stationed.
Through a part of the afternoon tha
shifter had been kicking cars down tha
main line and onto the transfer track.
While Stephens was standing in the rear
of a stationary flat car, two cars, de
tached from tlie string connected with
the engine, came rolling along the inter
change. Someone standing in the yrdsi
saw that an accident was imminent and
motioned to Giblons to apply the brake.
The progress of the ears was arrested,
although both were rolling along a grade;
but before Stephens lieeame aware of
his danger he was knocked down. Two
wheels of the flat car passed over him.
Atlo Mariani of the Bijou theatre, whr
was crossing Granite street at the time,
was one of the first to join trainmen who
went immediately to Stephens assist
ance.
Apparently "the freight car had been
stopped within less than its own length.
Stephens was lying in a pool of blood be
yond the hrst set of wheels nnd at first
minor point. Personalities figured prom- (glance men thought he was dead. When
HOPES TO CAPTURE
VILLA IN THREE DAYS
DEATH OF YOUNG WOMAN.
Mrs.
Carluccia Pinardi Had Been 111 for
Three Montha.
Mrs. Carluccia Pinardi, aged 22, wife
of Clemente Pinardi. passed away at her
General Luis Gutierrei Gets Confirmatory
Reports That the Bandit Chief is
Wounded He Thinks Villa Will
Double Toward Western
Mountains.
inently in the exchange of compliments
and after five witnesses had been exam
ined, much time was consumed in th.
closing arguments. Motions were made
and overruled ond many exceptions were
U'nfered by the defense.
Mrs. Saia's arrest followed a seizure
of alleged contraband liquor at her prem
ises, 1 Rugbee avenue, on the forenoon of
March 24. Until her rase is finally dis
posed of she will continue under lil of
$")50.
Torreon, Mexico, April 6 General Luis
Gutierrez reported to General Trevino
last night he is very hoeful tJiat (rner
al Cavazos will capture Villa and the
remnants of his men during the next
home (11 T?.fklrv straet thw nuo-ninu 1 three days. ilia prisoners confirm the
soon after midnight, the end fcdlowing ) reports that their chief is wounded. Gen-
14 APPLICATIONS
tro Hungarian squadron of t-n naval
aeroplanes bomlied with destructive sue-
He was in apparently good physical
lay night, but when his cell was opened
yesterday morning he was found ilea l.
Medical Examiner Frederick II. l'aker
viewed the lxMv. Kennedy's body
claimed bv the t(iiieriitt rs' union of
Milford. " '
ees the railroad stati"n, two gasometers, ! coiulit ion when he bx ke.l up Tues-
the docks and the barracks of Ainoiu
to-day. Several tires ensued. Counter at
tacks of two enemy aeroplanes with nia-
-bine guns were easily repulsed.
"One Aiistro-Hungarian aircraft wan
forced to land before the port by the fir.?
of three aircraft batteries. Another aero
plane, piloted by Flying Master Molnar,
landel at the side of the wreck, picke !
lip the to inmstis and oomp'etely de-t-troyed
the aircraft. Molnar in conse
quence of the rough sea, was unable to
rise agnin.
"An enemy torjwdo liat and two other
URGES T. R.'S NOMINATION.
Thereby Chairman Evoked Applause at
Maine Moose Convention.
Pangor. Me., April G. The Progresses
stJte convention vi-ter.lav elected ,d.-
J)odge
was in the village remetery.
LEIGHT0N CASE ENDED.
Was Tried at Woodstock for Murder of
A. C. Gibson at Sharon.
Woodstock, April hlt is Micvcd tli.it
an illness of three month. Resides her
husband, she is survived bv a daughter,
I.imi Pinardi; a sister, Mrs. Adolfo Iti-
anchi of this citv; and three brothers,
Joseph Coniolli and Arturo Comolli of
Rarre and Xatale Comolli, who lives in
Italy. Her mother. Mrs. Madeline Co
molli, is a resident of Italy. The de
ceased was born Carluccia Comolli in
Brenno I seria. Italv, 22 vears ago. Her
marriage to Mr. Pinardi took place in
ltalv three years ago nd soon after the
wedding the couple came to America,
settling immediately in Rarre.
Funeral services will In- held in St.
Monica's church Saturday afternoon at
3 o'clock. The parish prie. Rev. P. M.
McKenna. will be the officiating clergy
man and interment is to 1m- made in the
eral Gutierrei thinks that Villa will try
to double toward the western mountains
when he finds the road to the south
strongly held.
General Matias Ramons reports that
he had a fight at Santa Teresa, lietween
Torreon and San Pedro, with a band of
23 robbers, of whom only three escaped
alive.
For Liquor Licenses -Received to Date
Time Expires Friday Evening.
License commissioners of Rarre, W. II.
Ward. John Robins and John R. Kelly,
met in the council chamber at city hall
last evening and fixed the fees for first,
second, third, fifth and seventh class li
censes. The schedule is as follows:
First, $:(: second. J'.HMl; third. $300;
he was lilted trom the track, however,
he betrayed signs of consciousness and a,
few moments later when Dr.Paiemont was
applying first aid. the injured man ru'
lied sufficiently to direct the work of
bandaging his limbs. Thereafter ha
talked brokenly of the accident and re
tained consciousness while he was lieing
removed to the hospital. Arriving atj
the hospital Stephens was taken at onco
to the operating room, where the real
nature of his injuries was ascertained.
The remains of Mr. Stephens were tak'
en to the undertaking establishment of
Perry & Xoon;tn on Depot square, where)
the funeral is to be? held Saturday after
noon at 2 o'clock. It is expected that
Rev. Edgar Crossland, pastor of the First
Presbyterian church, will officiate, ami
interment will be made in Hope ceme
tery.
Mr. Stephens was about 30 years ol.l
and was lmrn in the district of Ruchan,
in Scotlmd. He ram to America as a
young man. having learned the granitft
REPEAT VILLA STORY.
VERMONT BUSINESS TROUBLES.
ships sailed from the port in order tolgstes to the national convention and
rapture the Auslro Hungarian, but wereid"pted a platform, ti.e principal planks
(ored to withdraw by the bombs and i of which advmatsl national prepare I-machine-
gun lire of ether Aii-tro-II'in- Jness. an adi-qua'e merchant marine, nnd
gsriun aeroplane. Finally, two aer-s protective tariff 'framed bv a r.on-j-latie.
piloted ty Naval t -! t Vamt- ' partisan. - i tditie commission."
and a lieutenant, were sent out and res- j t;eorpe S. Wrl l- r of .i?urn. in an ad
rued all four inmate of the d nu ;?- jdre a i-i'iiriwii. .r w pr. doited j..
aerorlsne and burned it. l i.'irf !im h ui.el the n .non.it; u vt
"T,ii a. ten u c-MTn-1 ut voder th-j 1 bvoJore Jicswettit i.r j reiUtnt,
Burlington and Moretown Men File Pe
titions. Kutland. April Antonio Cais of Rur-
Lngton yesterday filed a petition in bar.k-
Charlcs F. Leighton. on trial in Windsor il ,nol,c ''' " "ecKley street.
county r-jurt lor the murder of A. C.
Uihson in Sharon on February 24, last.
Ii!l know his fate by sunset to-day. The
I testimony vas linished yesterday alter
I noon about 3 '!. x k and State's Attor
,'ney B. E. Cole of Windsor made tli
opening argument for the state. F. R.
il'.icknell of White River Junction made
,tlie opening plea for Iij:hton and At
itornev Rav mond Trainor l-e-an hi arcii-
i ment for the defense at 4 o'clex k. At tor- J
n y-c;. nerI H. I'ail-r of I'.ratth horo
made the rioting argument for tr slate
jt-ns m .rninif.
j Witness- for the prosecution vc-ter-day
denied the story of the fatal !k.o!
irg of i.jtixin in the tim'r 14 tM t-y
!,.: tun and ruirvU rated br bis aou.
That Bandit Chief is Wounded and is
Near Capture.
El I"ao. Tex., April 6. The story that
Francisco Villa i wounded and that his
capture is imminent was asserted rgain
last night by General Givira, the Car
ranm commander at Juarez.
fifth, $40; seventh. ?2"o. It i aid that i eutter's trade in the land of bis fart!
the schedule conforms closely to the j He had lieen a resident of HHrre for near
schedule used in such cities as Purling- j y -Jo years. So far as can be learned hsi
ton and Rutland. It will be seen tliatjh.id no near relatives in America. John
there is no discrimination la tween first ! Stephens of Los Angeles, Cab, formerly
and second class license. The third cla-s ( a member of the lUrre granite manu
license is for the sale over the liar of , factoring firm of Stephens A Gerrard, is
beer and light wines; the fifth for drug- is cousin, and another cousin reside in
gists, and the seventh for the sale of
beer and light wines not to be consumed
on the premises where they ore pur
chased. Thus far 14 applications have l-en
tiled with the commissioner. This num
ber include peron who have applied
for both a first and second class license.
leaving the choice to the commission.
i.enrral Gavira made public a telegra in ! ( w,., ,,,iit; ha. hern received for a
w hich be said he had received from Gen-i ,.-nsc. Friday evening at s
Haverstraw. X. Y. The deeeased was a
memlier of the Glcnugie club and num-la-reda
large circle of acquaintances among
the granite cutters of P.arre. He resided
on tiranite street and boarded at thn
Eagle cafe on Xorth Main street, vvher.v
be wa well known to the proprietor,
W. D. Murray.
eral Rertini at Madera, stating spceiti
ially that the handit had been shot and
wa in hiding somewhere between Rachi
tic! a an l Satevo.
The meage i confirmatory of re
port from American headquarter that
c'cKw-k the time set for receiving" ar
ruptry with Clerk F. S. Piatt of the t'nit- j Villa wa located beading toward Sate
el stt- court. Hi liahllitie are 1.2: ; vo. While the story that be i wounded
and he ha aet of ?!"!. of w hich ?!, is still accepted here with considerable
i exempt. 'reserve, it i pointed out that several
A petition w alo fib-d by Frank j i!ay bve clped since the fugitive w
I.ci-as. of Mor to n, a cit r tor. w hose j rc-ortcd in the tie ii'!,Ur hood of SatcvT
s. I,e iule lio del.t of l til . and - f t bt way to Parral. and that nothing
s-t of -241. all cxeiiij t. The )n , ri ditor !iia h n heard t.w-r of hi movement-, i lerk tim-t
The bov scouts of troop Xo. 2 of thft
Congregational church In Id their iflonth-
ridi-lv council mcetine last evening in the
cations expire and on the following d.iy j,',,lr, h vestry. Principal II. H. Jakn
the premise w he.-e applicant propose toif t!,,. Spaulding high school gave a foi -establish
t hcnin lv e in bu'ine will I 1 1 v niinute talk, taking as his siihj.-t the
posted and tie name of the applicants L,",t motto. "IV Prepared."
will 1- p.iMih.s. aeeordimr to statutory Anions t vi-itors in the ritv vester-
provision. Mr tnree conseiut tve wik.
The license cmm:-ioners are to me t
again this evening.
lav
ir InuJe the strong Hardware ivnioarv if Vil.a. wa in full ssU.n c f his lnMj will
of Rurbngton; rlaioic-1 frM ' M. Lialli and traveling at In uaaal sj-cel MXTftarv.
and to day were te following peo
ple: W. R. Mattison of Xorth IVntun--tn.
Ttmma G. tianl of l'.urlmcton. H. If.
( rr!l of Burlington. Mr. and Vr. H. V.
Clerks Notice. IH-Idwrll of WV-t field. Mas, Frank
There will 1- a clerks' meeting at j I frago-n of P'att.-hurj. X. O. R. Mar
Worthen bail Kn.iav at ":.V i. ni. Adirvn of PoTt-rumtb. X. II, T. K. Steven
If '.s.tit and r-ri-t r orf c.!en F"!'-. X. Y f. Xwt"n f
Is granted. lyr orj. r Run. region. W. it. Hail of St. .loiinsbury,
and C. C. William of Warren, O.
