'pp- 1 fj -f f "'jP
It sL r , LanIl I ji 'ill-' ii iJOL i .HI Ell l jOOi
CIRCULATION IS
OVER 4000 DAILY
THIRTY-NINTH YEAR
SALEM, OREGON, THURSDAY, APRIL 6, 1916
PRICE TWO CENTS ftVmSS
EWTR00PS1. KEPLACE
Germans Stripping Soisson Lines To Reinforce Armies
i . Around Verdun New Regiments Made Presence Felt
1 by Terrific Charges Teutons Advance In Face of
Withering Fire Break Ranks and Co It Every Man for
Himself In Hand To Hand Fighting
London, April 6. German forces are mobilizing on the
Meuse west bank while their batteries are again bombard
ing the Vaux front, on the east side of the river.
They are stripping their Soissons lines to reinforce
the soldiers fighting before Verdun. Exhausted regi
ments have been withdrawn from the battlefields in front
of the French fortress and sent to points where no en
gagements are expected.
New regiments made their presence felt immediately
by terrific charges against the Frecnh at Vaux, hurling
them temporarily from advanced lines. Later the French
recovered all lost ground by strong counter attacks.
French wounded praised the German courage. They
said the Teutons advanced in solid masses. Raked by a
storm of fire from French "seventy fives", rifles and ma
chine guns, they broke ranks and ran toward the scat
tered houses of Vaux village, every man for himself.
Fierce hand to hand fighting followed in the streets.
Both sides suffered heavily.
Parly. A mil fi O.-rninns nttfickineri
Verdun reached Mancourt during" the i
night in a series of terrific assaults ,
northwest of the citadel, it was official- (come. 1'itteen minutes alter it reached
y admitted today. Attacks against ! the coast the sky cruiser was forced to
Hethincourt were repulsed. The Teuton j flee.
pain at Hauconrt was declared to have
lieen offset by an important Erench vie- j Torpedo Sinks I.laer.
tory in Carea wood, which was entirely' I.' i don, April li. It .vis f.nnd t.
carried by soldiers of the republic. Fif-j d-1 lftn' several sniio s nil.Tht have per
ty prisoners were taken. lis'ic, when the F.ldr lir.er e-nt was
It wot claimed the Germans suffered , si:nk presumably by a t 'pe.l:. Part f
"frightful losses" in their desperate ;
charges which continued all night. A
tempts to crush in the sides of tin
French salient by attacking Bethincoun
and advancing through Avocourt woojs
v. ere broken up.
Made it Hot for Aircraft.
Tendon. Anril fi. Raiding the ens
coaf t of England last night, a fleet f
three German Zeppelins dropped -Hi
tombs, killing ono child, injuring five
children, one woman and two men, the j
rdmirr.lty nnnonnced today.
Antiaircraft batteries along the
const were warned in advance of the
flotilla s approach. They greet "1 ,t
rith u hail of shrapnel. For 15 min.ites
the lnicfi guns bombarded the raiders,
in til" they were forced to flee sea
wt id.
T:e official announcement tho! one
of the three Zeppelins was hit. Di it'
first statement the admiralty saici redy
t.in ''Tpelin made the attack. Later
this n port was w ithdrawn and it ni s
8aid three dirigibles composed the mid
inrf squadron.
Rerlin reported that nil three return
ed undamaged, although they were
lietivilv shelled.
Three Killed Eight Hurt.
Loudon, April fi. Three persons were
billed .and eight were injured in hist
right's Zeppelin mid on the Rnglish
rnnst, it was of fici illy announce. I. This
v,-, the fifth mid this week.
The admiralty originally announced
tWlt only one person was killed but
later it admitted toere had been tlijee
l'.i liitii's. Forty bombs were dropped.
A single Zeppelin dropped bombs on
ABE MARTIN
Tell BinUey is confined his bed
t May. an as he don 't drink coffee th '
d' tor hns taken his case under advise
nient. Some folks are jest like trained
Mills von ve got t kMp haaJitt
uouicthin.
em
j
!
'
- l
!
;
l
t lie northeast coast. Its atouou'li was
reported in advance and batteries of i
anti-aircraft guns Rave it a warm wel -
t!i -i crew has been laide-l.
Che
survivors reaching Queenstowu
were me captain una jo Minors, ineyj
ngreeu tnnt taeir vessel nail neen at
tacked without warning. It listed and
begnn sinking immediately after the
torpedo crashed into its hull.
Zeppelin Raid Hai-ruless.
IiOndon, April (i. There were few if
nnv casualties in last night's Ztppclin
raid on England, it was unofficially re-
ported today. A number of bomb? wcre'in., in "." ,,,, ' '.. , "m,,."K
snid to have fallen in the see. I i- y.ei
pelin aliacked the no ir,-i,st co, ,:, mrh
in the evening ' ,
b' I
Germans Capture Haucourt. I
,
i.erun. n . iiaueourt nas oeea
captured by the Germans, official an-
rl-Zl ' . "
lit mi ma nnvfnn'adt rf V ur inn A Vnm,.h
1 ' . . 1 ml.
also taken.
ine xeuions iook .,4, pris-
oners.
J ,
Norwegian Ship Sunk.
London. April fi. Four sailors ner
Ished wlli.ii tin iimilnnt i ftml Vhfivuh 1.. ,1
, K.
mercnantmnn was sunk in the t.nglish
in.iiiiivi u. ioi peuu 01 mine, lu u as
learned today.
Fourteen of the crew
were saved.
To Control Airships.
Faris. April fi. Rome disi ni j'l s
day wild that Marconi, in.-ent.it of
to
wireless mm pertecte l a new :..i,-.,:r:iiu.
fi
'or controlling aeroplanes i,nj dirigi-
iles. It will be used .m i,t.;ly by
I
the Italian army.
Iiucr Sunk, 48 rm.v:cd.
Lindoii, April fi. "irtyoight per.
sous joibh.'d when the Eider lire,-
i Zi-it iitri torpedoed and sunk withn,.
1 w- r.iin?, it was learned today. A few
, survivors have been landed."
BREAK WITH GERMANY
SEEMS UNAVOIDABLE
SUSSEX TORPEDOED
Washington, April (1. American em-, dent Wilson to congress reviewing sub
bassy attaches who examined bronze ! marine operations from the l.usitania
frigmeots found in the wreckage of j case to the Sussex case ami giving
the channel steamer Sussex after it was ; America ' position to the world,
damaged by an explosion of f the French j Handing of his pissporU to German
coast reported today that the splinters , Ambassador Von fierastrff and recall
were pieces 01 a l.erman torpedo.
The findings were based on a com-i
pnrison between-the fragments and cap-l
tared derm in torpedo parts.
The official report of these attacks I The administration has never re
lended to confirm fears that a sever-j ceived official intimation that a ev
ance of diplomatic delations might be erince of relations would result in war.
unavoidable. Tiie possibility of an in- There have only been indirect intima
ternationnl rupture was increased. I tions of that from high Germans.
Some officials see the probable com-1 The report of the French admiralty,
ing events in the following order: j stating that a torpedo damaged the Su's-
Germinr's admission that one of herrsex, was not accepted an conclusive, but
submarines torpedoed the Sussex. lir i, not expected that the attaches' at-
American refusal to accept further ' fir'a report, when nude public, will
German promise with regard to sub- differ Brcatlv from it. The itate de
marine activities.
I A comprehensive statement by Presi-1
FORD C AERIES MICHIGAN
Detroit, Mich., April (1. Tlio
selection of Henry Fonl as
.Mulligan republican presi
dentinl candidate was conceded
today. Latest returns showed
him leading Senator William A.
Smith by :i,000 votes, with $(,
121 ballots counted. Prepared
ness advocates were apprehen
sive last Ford's friends, enter
him in the race for the noniiiu
tion in other states, despite
Ford's assertion that he would
not consent to run.
Some Insurgents Say Minister
Must Go Regardless of
Outcome of Trial
Chico. fal., April 0. Dissension in
liev. Madison Slaughter's church was
foreseen here today, following au excit-.
ing prayer meeting at which the pas
tor, who faces a second trial on charge
of attacK1 Gertrude Tiimson, 1" years
of age, was given control of '.the
church's business, f
At a raver meeting Trustee IT. 0.
Douglas introduced a resolution taking
control of church business from the
board of trustees and. giving it to the
advisory board, which is dominated by
Slaughter. The measure wis passed by
a scattering vote, none casting ballots
against it.
The step was declared illegal under
the church by laws by Deacon Charles
-ncClard. leader of the few 'insurgents'
who still Attend meetings.
"Never mind" said McClard. " there
will be an accounting meeting of the
whole churc
are ended, i
liurch after court proceedings
no matter what the final
verdict may be. This church ia not
supporting Slaughter. Only a few mem
bers are. When the time comes all will
return to oust Slaughter. I ousted his
predecessor 20 years ago, and can also
put him out."
Frank Robinson and Harold Bishop,
brother ami brother-in-law of Mrs. Idly
Davis, witness in the trial, are trying
to organize a committee to motcst
"'""t Slighter preaching any more
Market Was Slurash
and Changes Fractional
Xew York, April (!. The New York
Evening Sun's financial review today
said:
irtprtt.: 1,. d j ...
, t . i ,.i "l vm-
1 , U'anw"OT, Vo. .!-
mann Illweg 's announced intention of
continuing the submarine, campaign,
Sertntetton ffi"'1''1""? the
etestiitction without warning of anv-
thing afloat, neutral or belligerent
Hut the public, it seems, holds a' dif
. . . . "
mellt 01 ll''de interest in theinaikct
i'nees were stronir and the volume of
aetivitv Inaint.line(1 ,,llt (,istril)utl()11 of
business was very poor and the market
wore artificial appearances.
- A few issues, including Mercantile
Marine, International Nickel, Crucible
c.i i .. l. i .'.
oieei, iiiuusiiiai Aii'onoi anit American
Zinc supplied more than half of the.
enrU- Hun una P' rui .r...nu
erally higher but the early movement
was hesitating. Railways were irreg
ular and changes fractional, speedily be
coming dull. ' The same was true of
most copper stocks. Leading war is
sues were largely dealt in at the out
bet. Crucible Steel. Ilnldwin Locomotive
aml Industrinl Alcohol when taken
,n,i i,,vp,i
hand, improved.
TALLINQ ROCK KILLED HIM
Nevada City, Cab, April fi. A fall
ing rock in the Golden Central mine to
day killed William C. Browning, a
workman, and seriously injured -Mine
Foreman William Harvev.
of American Ambassador Gerard from
Corlln . i
Events beyond that point would de-!pn
pend on Germany.
,partment refused to divulge the text of
the attaches' report.
II
WOULD JflAKE RACE
1 Am Not For War," Is the
Colonel's Opening Gun of
Campaign
LUNCHEON WITH ROOT
ADDED FUEL TO BLAZE
Strenuous One Insists He
Would Fight For Peace
Any Old Time
New York, April (!. Colonel Theo
dore Roosevelt's hat is in the ring.
me campaign to land hint in the
republican nomination is about to bo
formallv launched.
This interpretation was almost unan
imously given today to his statement to
a group of visitors at. Oyster Bay yes-!
terday in which he defined tho program
the U. y. convention must adopt if
it wants him as. standard bearer. It
wt I agreed that the slogan should be
" . nierica. first. "
Politicians speculated on the possi
bility of Roosevelt , not reconsidering his:
refusal to enter the presidential prim
aries. It was thought possible that the
Colonel's supporters might try to land
delegations from several states, around
which to rally the uniustructed dele
gates.
Discussion of Roosevelt's statement
to Oyster Bay callers was linked with
comment on the. now famous Hoot
Roosevelt luncheon in New York. Poli
tician hinted that the latest develop
ment prove former Senator Koot and
Colonel Roosevelt had smothed over
their differences..
Before the colonel's statement' was
permitted to leak out. his friends in
the far west and middle west told him,
that those sections would support a
candidate taking a decisive stand on
foreign policies. This probably led
him to declare that he would not "pus
sv foot' oa any issue he had raised.
"Don't you nominate me," he said
to his visitors "unless you are prepared
to take the position that I'ncle jSarn is
to be strong enough to defend his rights
atid to defend every one of his people,
wherever thoe people are, and he can 't
be strong enough unless he prepares in
advance.
"I am not for wa,r. On the contrary,
I abhor an unjust or wanton war and T
would use every honorable expedient to
avoid even a just war. But I feel that
you don't, in tho long run, avoid war
by mnking other people believe that
you are afraid to fight for your own
rights."
Colonel Roosevelt went on to say
that America must never never wrong
the weak or insult, any nation wanton
ly. He added that every citizen of this
country should be prepared "in his own
soul'' as well as with the army and
navy, so that when he said anything
"the rest of the world will know that
he means it and that he can make it
good."
PLEASED 1H SPEECH
Von Bethmann-Hollweg Con
ciliates All Parties by
His Stand
Herlin. April fi All political factions
g'ave widespread approval today to Im
perial Chancellor Von Bethniann lloll
wegg's speech in the reichstng, in which
he outlined the military situation.
His declaration that Germany would
answer her enemies' calumnies with the
sword, coupled with a .promise to con
tinue vigorously the submarine war
fare conciliated the Von Tirpitz element
and informed the world that Germany
was ready to fight to a victorious fin
ish regardless of the cost.
A "new Belgium," guaranteed
against allied control, won the support
of socialists and liberals. During hi
address the chancellor casually quoted
Bismarsk's historic s.ement to t ef
fect that the fates of colonic were de-
I cided on the continent. This waa tak-
10 n"a" lha Hollweg believes restn-
ration of all German colonies a certain
condition of final peace negotiations.
HORSES' PERILOUS TBIP
Vancouver, Wash., April fi.- Vhil
their driver slept aoundly, a team of
horses yesterday crossed a long an I
high street rtr trestle, jolting over the
ties with tne wheel bnrely an ierh from
the outer edge. Near th.i end of the
trestle, tho driver, Willi ru OgW.n,
ayoke e id discovered his pcriloi. posi-
THEODORE THROWS
ilSLIDINTHE RING
GASOLINE JUMPS AOAIN
San Francisco, April fi. An- :
other increase in tho price of s'
gasoline became effective here
today. The new rate is 19 cents
a gallon. This is toe fifth jump
within five months. Last No-
vember gasoline was selling for
-14 cents. A vear ago the price
was 12 cents here.
Say Raid Did Damage.
Berlin, April fi. Zeppelins raided
Kngland last night, the war office an
nounced today. Iron works, blast fur
naces and extensive military establish
ments at Whitby were destroyed.
Cleanliness and Care Has
Kept Sickness Down To
One Per Cent
;:
THE "DOUGH BOYS" SONG
With the American army tn
Mexico, April fi. The dough
boys have created their own
"war" song. It is a parody on
"Tipperary," bused on the long
hikes between temporary camps
and goes like this:
"It's a long hike to Temporary,
It 's a long way to go;
It 's a long way to Temporary
On the way to catch Piuicho.
"Good-bye old Columbus.
Farewell Gibson's ranch;
It's a long, long way to Tempo
ra ry ,
But (shouted) we should
worry."
By H. D. Jacobs.
(United Press Staff Correspondent.)
Field Headquarters American Kxpe
dition, C'olonia iJublan, by motor train
to Columbus, N. M., April fi. Untiling
ind laundering his clothes at every op
portunity tho American Boldicr on tiie
expeditiomhas held the average of sick
ness down to less thin one per cent,
a new record for foreign service. Dys-
nterv and pneumonia were quickly jnp
ped after a half hundred cases devel
oped
Though traversing a region infested !
with diseaso and vermin, the Americanj That the Villistns are between the
troops are quite as healthy as when i Americans' farthest south aud the bor
t'lcy started .ind just as clean. The!(,.r W!u) made evident by Colonel
medical corps has taken every precnu-! Brown 's fight nt Ojos Calientas Satur
tion to ward off infection but tiie innin'gv. Ojos Calientns is 15 miles east
reason tor the expedition 's good health j f' Vnlle, which the American van
is that Saturday night institution, the j ril passed nearly n fortnight ago.
lath. SoldiersV bathe whenever they
can, usually laundering their clothes it
the same time
Members of the medical corps believe
that even without their safeguards t-
percentage of illness would be very low.
When the column is not marching,
sleeping or eating, the members may
iiest be looked for in the nearest stream
(Continued on Page ThrM.)
GENERAL SAYSyiLLA
IS BEATEN- OUR ARMY
SHOULD NOW GET OUT
Kl Paso, Texas, April II. Consul Gar
cia, representative of Veiiiistiano Car !
' .' ,., ., , ... , ,
,anza i. I.I Paso, favors withdraw d of !
I he United Stnt -s army from Mexico, j
In a statement issued today Garcia
declared the army had accomplished its)
i!!pose nf breaking Frinciseo Villa's,
Mienglli an. I scattering his men. i
"Theie is no necessity, in my 'opin-,
io i, fin iiarcia, "ior tne Americans
ioi, i-i:i' nairiii, iui niiiriiirtun
to puisne the cuinpaigns any 1 Hither. ' '
There if no doubt here that Garcia 's
statement reflects the views ot nr-
ranzii.
"The Aiiieric.ni expedition has
achieved its purpose of breaking Villa
strength and scattering his followers
said onsut t.arcia today. it is not
i wrhsary to capture Villi, in order t"
innl't the project a success. 1 believe it
would be useless to keep thousands pur
suing him, as it may require an indef
inite time to effect his capture.
'The capture of Villa would be made
racier by tne otter ot a nig rewarn.
Teere is no necessity, in my opinion.
for the American armv to pursue the
campaign any further."
Withdrawal of I niteil Mates torces
would not mein that Villa would gan
prestige," continued Garcia. "Mis
power is completely broken, i ne .Mex
icans realize Villa is defeated. But
furtiier progress of American forces in
to the interior mignt precipitate more
trouble.
"The expedition has gone tar enough
to accomplish puni-dimcut of the ban
dits who raided Columbus, therefore I
1 clicve it ought to withdraw. Mexi
cans
ro..llo II.. orr.pd t on's t.urnnse
nt.d tbev ippreciate that it was succeed-
.4 ivii.. t... I -.1 k.n...l ...I
ed. If Villa had made a stand and
defeated even a small force of Ameri
cans he might have become a popular i
hero, but defeited as he is, iie is ruined
as a leader. He can never gather an -
MEXICANS SAY VILLA IS
SPERATELY WOUNDED
Latest Statement Is That He Has 250 Followers With Him
and Is Moving Slowly In Wagon Carranza Officials In
sist His Flight Must End Soon By His Going Into Hiding
Or Being Captured Americans Think Capture Will
Take Many Months Yet
El Paso, Texas, April 6. Francisco Villa has appar
ently disappeared. Both Carranzista and American of
ficials declared today that no soldiers of either govern-.
ment had seen him since he -was reported wounded near
Guerrero. While they believed he was nearing Parral,
this information came from Mexican civilians and was
unsatisfactory owing to the fear that these informants
might be Villa sympathizers, officials admitted.
The American pursuit is believed to have halted
temporarily south of Guerrero owing to the danger of
extending communications farther without adequate rail
road facilities. However, 500 cavalrymen under Colonel.
George Dodd may have dashed toward Satevo. where.
Villa was last reported several days ago. The latest
estimates said Villa had 250 followers with him. He was
j previously reported as moving slowly in a wagon, at-
tended only by a handful.
Uarranza omciais insist mat ne is uesperateiy
wounded and predict an early end to the flight, either by
Villa going into hiding or being captured. With 18 ar
rests in El Paso besides 50 in Juarez, it was believed to-
; day that the plot to cause an
tions yet.
By H. D. Jacobs.
(United Preys stuff correspondent.)
Tr. S. Army Headquarters, Uublaii, by
aeroplane to Casus Grandes, thence by
radio to Columbus, N. M., April (1. The
consensus of opinion at army headquar
ters is that the American expedition '
object is still far from being accomp
lished. A long stay is fornensted un
less tho unexoeted places Francisco
Villa in the hands of American and
Carranzista forces hunting him.
Colonel Brown chased tiie uanuiiw
50 miles through San Antonio Pass scat
t.trinf. tlintn Mninr l-'.v'inM heads Atl-
.,,. f. ' ...i,;,.', i i.rntA-tinir com-
nuuiicutions tilotind Kl Valle.
Transportation a Problem.
Columbus, N. M., April fi. Present
army transportation facilities nre rapid
ly becoming inadequate. The demands
other annyui Mexico."
,. ... ,,,, ,,
Bell Would Not Talk.
,(M ,.,, Airi, (;.Mujor
(;,.m.ril ,f, Kiiinklin Hell, commander
of the western department of the Uni-
ted States army today refused to dis-
cuss reports t hut the administration
plans to withdraw American troops
f rom Mexico.
tieneral Hell arrived here today at tn
uencrui lieu niTiveii acre tot
j invitation of a citizens' com
. .(.ture on training of citizen
oniniittee to
ining ot citizen solinerv
Sneaking to the United Press, Bill
(itclined t tall; on the possible -til
drn.Mil of American forces f .' oil M"X
ico. He stated he did not beiijvo a
ir..,,,r rtru wilH neces.-arv for the
a , ,1,, ,Klr
; thei-i was no rnuse for alarm over the
defenses of the Pacific coast.
The training of citizen soldo-ry is re
tarded with the highest e-iteem by army
officers, General Bell declared.
Not a Mind Keajtr.
Si.n Antonio. Texas, Aoiil 1.- Mien
asmd if the American army would witl.
dr.ic fiom Mexico ilnjor General Fre:l
Fiiuiton replied today tli'it he was not
i r..ind reach r
I r.'ou't re d men's m.i'i in W'idi
irf;iii " he sai l sharply v-l .-n asked to
confirm reports that withdrawal .
contemplated.
No News at Washington.
Washington, April fi. If reports are
true that the administration is disponed
to consider the American expedition to
.Mexico nccompllsneil 11 puruoMj uy w-ni
j tering the Villistns without actually
.nnliiritiff tkiii It'mlpr. nl con fir'not inn
capturing their leader, no eonfirmnliori
of it is obtainable here, lie war anj
state department would lei: diseuxi tho
rumor, exceut to suy tlmt campaign.
1 plans have )-ot been ;Ui :eJ
insurrection in the Juarez
from the field army far exceed supplies
which can be rushed 'south with tin1,
equipment (it 200 motor truck.
It requires from six to eight day
for motor caravans to mtiko the roi m'
trip over thro hundred miles of dese
and mountain to the temporary hne.
Tho cry from the interior for more
supplies has become no insistent fhn
army men have called Major Fred Fun--ston'g
attention to it.
Tho Hituntion, it is declared,
become more acute as the chase after
Francisco Villa goes farther south.
Several hundred fresh mounts recently"
forwarded to the front hardly made mi
impression on the demands for more
horses to replace those worn out in Hi"
drive. Hay and oats aro badly ne--'- '
The men 'a shoes and clothes nre wear
ing well. . The progress of wagons and
pack trnins is so slow thut their assist
ance is negligible.
Artillery to Remain.
Washington, April (I. At Major Gen
eral Fred Funston's request, tho war
department toduy countermanded it
orders for a squadron of tho Fourth
field artillery to proceed from Browns
ville, Texas, to Pniinnia. Funston de
sired the artillery to tie retained at
Brownsville.
Ponderous Intellects
To Meet In Berkley
Berkeley, (al., April (I. One of the
greatest assemblages of scientists ever
held on the wet const will begin at
San Diego on August f, it was learned
hero today, continuing until August 12.
During that period the Pacific coast
division, American Association for the.
Advancement of Science, which num
bers I lilt) members, will convene- there,
following the summer assembly at the
Scripps biological institute at Uni
Jolla.
4c
ROOSEVELT TO BE IT
Washington, April 0. Senator
Miles Poindexter emphatically
declared today that Theodore
Itoosevelt would, in his opinion,
be nominated and elected, 4c
"Roosevelt as a candidate is
all right," said Senator Keuyon. 4c
"We would like the contest to
narrow dona to .lust liooscvflt
and Cummins. "
Six senators who wanted their
names kept quiet stated they be- 4c
lieved Hooscvelt would prob-
ably be the republican nominee.
THE WEATHER J
4l
OU-H v.Uf INI
.ct.r.-;-:r
W JWrt-!.:!!. Oregon. Fair
MMl tonight with
ugnt irosr; m
day fair, warm
er; northerly
winds. '
5N
