TFTTSrATSr-CTTTL "ETDTTTOIT
NIGHT
EXTRA
Euening
iErttanr
NIGHT
EXTRA
VOL. IH.-3STO. 12
ALLIES EXTEND
SOMME GROUND
IN NEW THRUST
British Gain Trenches Near
Faucourt L'Abbaye, Lon
don Reports
JTAKE MANY PRISONERS
French Advance East of Ver-
i mmiuuvuxuia vjui iiiuua run
to AttacK
E
BERLIN, Sept 27. The capture of
-lTh!cpvnl nnd (ho German works form
lng the Thtcpval salient is admitted in
an official report issued by the, War
Office today.
LONDON, Sept 27.
In two days of tho great battle on tha
Eommo front, the British alone have cap
tured between S000 and 4000 prisoners.
General Halg reported this afternoon.
The War Office in its regular day report
ttated that further progress has been made
In the direction of Faucourt LAbbaye,
fhetmllcs northwest of Combles, and that
nine German aeroplanes have been shot
down or damaged In atr flights on the
British front. The text follows:
The new positions gained by us dur
ing the last two days were consolidated
during the night. Patrol detachments
pushed forward at many places and
are In close touch with the enemy.
We made further progress during the
night, particularly In the direction of
Faucourt L'Abbaye. TVo carried out
successful trench raids opposite Beau-mont-Hamel.
In the neighborhood of
Loos three hostile aeroplanes were de
stroyed. In air fighting on Monday
six enemy machines were downed or
, damaged.
British and French troops, charging In
from opposlto sides of Combles, met near
the heart of tho' town shortly after dawn
and exchanged greetings amid the din of
Uttle.
The British had fought their way through
a, wood on the northwestern outskirts of
the town. They beat down stubborn Ger
man resistance In this wood, but, once
through, entered Combles Itself without
ttrong opposition. The French, approach
ing from the southeast had o fight their
jjray through several rows of German
trenches and .fortified redoubts.
The underground caverns In Combles
were filled with Germans wounded In the
last two das,,BflgJjtlw!.arorundJlhBvtllage.
who had been unable to escapobecause of
the tightening of the Anglo-French noose.
The most successful bjow struck by
Anglo-French troops since the battle of the
Marne has brought the capture of Feronne
and Bapaume appreciably nearer.
It Is possible, English military critics said
today, that both these towns, the Immediate
objectives of the great Allied offensive, will
fall within a fortnight The apparent ease
with which German resistance collapsed at
Thiepval yesterday, following the capture
of Combles, surprised military observers
here and led them to predict quick victories
for the British and French In the drives on
Peronne and Bapaume.
Tile final dash against Combles developed
Into some of the most savage fighting of
the whole war. The Germans caught In
the southwestern angle of the village stuck
to their machine guns bravely and died at
their posts. The French, advancing through
the cemetery on the southeast, were ro-
peatedly counter-attacked by Teuton de
tachments thattormed their lines In the
face of certalnjieath.
The few Germans who escapes' retreated
hastily toward Sailly, falling back a dis
tance of more than two miles.
Details of the capture of Thiepval are
till lacking. The Thiepval position, fort!-
'? r fled perhaps more strongly than ony vlllago
on me bomme line, hnd held up the advance
' x of the British left wing since the opening
, uj oi me Aiuea onenaive. it lumDiea jn
tinder one sudden smash that sent the Ger-
nuns rolling bock upon Grandcourt
GERMANS MAKE NO EFFORT
..? TO RETAKE LOST POSITIONS-
D ttnwvmi wvTwvn hnvc
. taJ4i v uai uii7 uaiitu
PARIS, Sept 21.
Rolled back hv thu fr.mnnriniiH A11lf1
jt blow yester&ay, tho Germans made no at
tempt to recapture positions taken by the
trench north of the Bomme last night. It
t was officially announced today. The French
spent the night organizing their new po-
Hlons.
" South of the Bomme a brilliant Rtt.ik
'JN enabled, tha French to carry a strongly de
fended wood, forming a salient east of Ver
ndovlllr, ' A large number of German prisoners have
""been brought In all along the Somrae front
as the result of yesterday's successful op
rations. At Combles group after group of
Germany wa. cut oft and cornered between
SrtUh and French detachments closing in
i .i Upon Ue village. Others fought desperately
frOm llnAuwmild na.. ..nttl ,... ..&
---. ......v. (t.wu.1.4 IA.VIIID U,,b HIJ nO
4Unced by boroblnir nsrtlsa.
; A An artillery duel of utmost violence de-
-yp in ins uarjeux sector, me com-
f J ""ue says.
he front held exclusively by the French.
Coattoaed on Pan Fire, Celaua Oae
THE WEATHER
PHILADELPHIA, WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, IOIG
Corritanr, 1616, at m Polio I.rwr Coxuxr.
price one omm
I
FORECAST
For Philadelphia and vicinity In-
J)w folUnvtd by ihowere and preb
V thundtrtUm Thundny; wdtr
t to fre$k outhrlyuind.
SELAWARK HIV KM TIJIK CHAKOW
.ff" .. ..
Mien water,, iii
w .'ur.rttl1ST!
ww rtr a m oi.iLew wUr.. tM.m.
YCMMtAATVM A KAVst sttUt
l a
FIGURES IN HOTEL MURDER
ts3 "" "TsV B CjfcS, issssssHsssssssH
."'aaBVvMBBBBB'BBBBBBBBl BBBBBBBjBBBHBBfftviW.MCjiv t. 1
Jlrs. Harry Bplzar, of Brooklyn, whoso portrait appears above, last
night shot and killed Joseph C. Gravier, of New York (on the left)
mortally wounded a woman who was with him at the Hotel Wnlton
and then killed herself.
NUGENT STRIKES
BACK AT WILSON;
BEATS WESCOTT
Jersey Politician by Nomi
nating Martine for Sen
' ator Gets Revenge
COLGATE LEADING EDGE
THENTON, Sept. 27. The renomlnatlon
of United States Senator James E. Martine
over Attorney-General John TV. Wescott at
the Democratic primary yesterday was as
sured today by late returns. This is a
smashing blow to the Wilson forces In New
Jersey, the President's home State. Wes
cott was put up by the Wilson men to
defeat Martine for the nomination because
the "farmer orator," os Martine Is called,
has not always responded promptly "to the
crack of the Wilson whip. In Wescott's de
feat politicians see the revengeful hand of
James R. Nugent Late figures from Hud
son County give Martine 16,000 over Wes
cott. Martine was strongly supported by German-Americans
and also by Irish-Americans
who npplauaed"'his''fesohitio'n forInterven
tlon by the President to save Roger Case
ment Wescott is said to have lost many
labor votes because he as Attorney General
prosecuted persons arrested during the
Roosevelt (N. J.) strike.
Unofficial, returns indicate Frellnghuy
sen's nomination over Murphy for the Re
publican nomination for United States Sen
ator by about 4SO0 majority In the State.
CORRECTION FAVORS COLGATE
Through an error of 10,000 votes In the
early Essex County returns made in favor
of his opponent, Austen Colgate, Repub
lican candidate for Governor, is leading
Walter E. Edge In the New Jersey primary
by more than 5000 votes this afternoon.
This morning's returns had virtually as
sured Edge's nomination. ,
Martine made his campaign wholly on
his record, which record was Just the reason
why the Wilson men opposed him.
It Is believed In State political circles
that the hand of James R. Nugent Demo
cratic leader of Essex County, can be seen
In Wescott's defeat. Wilson, after being
helped to the ottjee of Governor of New
ContlnnwTon Tilt Four, Colomn Fear
Germans Release, Rich American
LONDON, Sept 27. Isador Polak, the
rich American citizen removed by the Ger
mans from the Dutch Bteamshlp Prins Hen
drlk when that vessel was taken Into Zee
brugge, has been released, according to a
telegram from Amsterdam today by Robert
p. Skinner, American Consul General here.
READING PLANS
ELECTRIFICATION
OF ITS BRANCHES
Change Awaits Better Ma
terials Market and Labor
Conditions
RESULT OF DICE POLICY
SLAIN AUTO MAN'S .
COMPANION HIDES
HER OWN IDENTITY
Victim of Jealous Brooklyn
Woman's Bullet May
Die
WHISPERS HER ADDRESS
Gravier's Sister nears It, but
Will Not Give Information
to Police
Opportunity for the humanizing of a
great railroad system more adequately to
meet the needs of the pubUc Is awaiting
the outcome of the Illness of Agnew T,
Dice, president of the Philadelphia and
Reading system.
4
Mr. Dice was stricken with typhoid fever
just as he had completed plans for the elec
trification of Important suburban lines of
the Philadelphia and Reading. lie had
made up his mind to begin construction of
these lines as Boon as the price of labor and
equipment descended to something like nor
mal. "
Specifications ace already on file In his
omce ror me eiecirincaiion oi mo uerman-y
. i ...... ttIii w .1.. r-i r
ujwii uuu vncBkitui xiui urmicti, ma uicu-
side and Jen,ktntovbtancluaiid,vthe Nor
rlstown line. Originally It was planned to
electrify Uio Frankford branch, but this
project was -abandoned when the Frankford
elevated became a certainty.
MR. DICE SERIOUSLY ILL
For several weeks Mr, Dice has been seri
ously HI at his Atlantlo City home, and his
physicians are disturbed because his con
dition falls to show Improvement. For the
last two or three days his temperature has
fluctuated around 102, and a great deal of
the time he is delirious. No one is allowed
in the room with him except his wife and
nurses. Mr. Dies carried his great respon
sibilities as head of the, Reading Railway to
his sick bed, where, In spite of Illness, his
mind dwells upon the great unfinished proj
ects on which he has worked with untiring
energy.
Electrification of the Reaa:ngs suburban
branches has been one of the great ambi
tions of Mr. Dice. He studied electric sys
tems on other railroads and determined that
the Reading should have the best Accom
panying the electrifications. It is said, he
planned a lowering of suburban fare rates,
as well es the consummation of some ar
rangement with the Philadelphia Rapid
Transit Company by which passengers could
be transferred from Reading trains to tho
new high-speed lines, when they are com
pleted. This In Itself -constituted a new and
radical change In the conduct of railroad
affairs, and marks a step forward In the
attempt to meet the public's needs in the
Continued en fate ThUteeZ, Column Three
A Jealous woman, secreting herself In a
hallway of the Hotel Walton, shot and.
killed Joseph C. Oraler, a New York
garago man, seriously wounded a woman
registered as his wife and killed herself by
sending a bullet through her temple early
today, while the last strains of the or
chestra In the roof garden above were dying
out
The slayer was Identified as Mrs. Harry
Belzar, 6f 315 Euclid aenue, Brooklyn, said
to bo prominent In church circles. The
Identification was made at the Morgue by
Mrs. Francis Apman, 420 West ISBth street.
New York, a slater of the dead man, and
Howard E. Fancey, Gravier's business part
ner In the Alhambra garage. New York.
Both came to Philadelphia hurriedly on
hearing of the shooting.
VISITORS UNNERVED
Gravier's body also was Identified by Fan
cey, with whom he lived at 65-67 West JUth
street So' unnerved was Mrs. Apman that
she could not view the body, but Identified
her brother's clothing.
The Identity of Gravier's companion, who
the police believe is a wealthy New York
society woman. Is a mystery.
Mrs. Apman and Fancey, taken to the
Jefferson Hospital to Identify the wounded
woman, both refused to tell her name.
Mrs. Apman, Indignant with the police,
went up close beside the woman's cot
"I am Joe's sister,1' sne said. "Joe is
dead. So Is Margaret Is there anything
that I can do for your' , A
The wounded woman looked up at Mrs.
Apman.
"Lean over me," she whispered. "You
can notify my sister,"
The woman whispered her sister's New
York address to Mrs. Apman, but the police
did not hear It They did hear her whisper,
however, an explanation of the shooting.
"Joe and I were in the room when thfs
woman knocked at the door,'! they heard
hr naJrA WS weTfullyVdrtedjDe'
opened the door. It happened so quick we
did not know what was going on. Please
don't ask me any more. I don't want any
body to know about this but mV sister,
SHIELD WOUNDED WOMAN
Mrs. Apman and Fancey were questioned
by Coroner Knight, but both refused to tell
the name of the wounded woman.
"I know who she Is," said Mrs Apman,
"but I won't tell you. She Is married and,
her husband lives In New York."
Mrs. Apman was vexed with the ques
tioning. When E. L. Hoey, Coroner's un
dertaker, asked her about what manner of
burial she wanted for her brother, he says
she said:
"Oh, put him nafted In a pine box and
ship him back to New York."
Hpey said Mrs. Apman told him of
having been robbed of J10,0"00 worth of
Jewels two months ago and after having
a detective work on the case she came
tb the conclusion that she "never would
be able to recover them while my brother
Is alive."
"Now that he Is dead," she said, according
to Hoey, "I feel sure that I will recover
them."
Mrs. Apman denied that she had said
this to Hoey or to the police.
The police found several diamond stick
pins set In platinum and three diamond
rings In a Gladstone bag In Gravier's room.
They were worth between (3000 and $10,000,
the police said.
Continued on PI Tour, Column" Two
HUGHES RENEWS CHARGE
THAT WILSON MEDDLED
IN MEXICAN SITUATION
Repeats Challenge to Admin
istration to Deny Huerta
Was Ordered'to "Get
Out"
ASSAILS ADAMSON LAW
AKRON, O., Sept 27. Charles a
Hughe Journeyed eastward out of Ohio
today. Jn his speeches he repeated his
challenge to the W(lon Administration' to
deny that John Llnd was authorised td tell
the Minister of Mexico that "Huerta would
be put out of Mexico if he didn't get out."
Brief speeches here and at Canton wound
up Hughes's three-day whirl through' Ohio,
where be made tea speeches.
In citing the Llnd Incident to support his
claim that President Wilson meddled In
Mexico's politics W waged personal war.
fan. against Huerta. Hughes said;
wfciRd wa uthorU1 to "y r
rdlng Huerta that the President pre.
ferred that Huerta be put out through do-
not accom?lU the purpose 'other means
would be resorted to.'"
In discuss1" the Adamsen law before
.hnuiuuwK fit rubber wer and ether
;Werner , Hugh- 4otore4 Pre.
T. ti- w-lnolpU of arWtrti. The oaj
SLrU UsWtl iUrM strike
3J "
ECKLEYB.C0XE,JR.,
LEFT LARGE LEGACY
TO U. OF P. MUSEUM
Between $500,000 and $1,000,000,
According to Persons Who
Were Close to Philanthropist
BACKED RESEARCH WORK
A legacy for the University of Pennsyl
vania Museum between 1500,000 and II,
000,000 la reported to have been left by
Eckley B. Coxe, Jr., one of its founders
and most lloeral patrons, who died at the
Coxe summer home at Drlfton, Pa., Sep
tember 20.
The reports came today from persons who
were very close to Mr Coxe, who during the
last ten years contributed about $60,000 an
nually to the museum for research expedi
tions and running expenses. The probation
of the will, it is expected, will reveal tha
fact that the annual contributions have been
capitalized and that the money will be
turned over to tha museum in a lump sum.
John Cadwatadtr, Jr., who with his fa
ther was Mr, Coxe's legal adviser and is
one of the executors of the estate, declined
to comment on the anticipated bequest
"I can't talk about that bow," he said.
"Maybe at the end of the week there will
be some detailed information to give out'"
Mr, Coxe, who came from a pioneer an
thracite mining family, was president o
the snuaeum wheat be died, having baea
tloolH to 11. lie was one of the chief
frr--'-' MftWfU of Uw tuUtattaff, Saae.
"-
NEW YORK LABORERS
SLOW TO HEED ORDER
FOR GENERAL STRIKE
Most of Unions Stand by Con
tracts Only One Local of
Painters Moves tp Stand
by Carmen
JEWS KEEPING HOLIDAY
NEW YORK, Sept. 27. Labor unions in
New York were today standing by con
tracts they have with employers, and there
was little response to he call for a gen
eral walk-out In sympathy with the striking
employes of the traction lines.
Police reports up to 11 o'clock accounted
for only one local, connected with the
Painters' Union, going out as an actual step
In the sympathetic movement.
Probably 200,000 union workers remained
away from work today, but a majority of
them would not have reported had there
been no strike call, being Jewish and ob
serving the holiday.
Most of 4hese workers are employed rf
the seat and suit Industries? and so far
have taken no action toward Joining a
strike movement They only recently signed
a contrast with tbe employers after a long,
bitter fight for this system of wage agree
ment The labor leaders expressed themselves
as entirely satlsIM with the situation, but
would make no estimate of the number on
Strike or about to strike, William irtts
arakt, organiser of the Mraaen's uuWot
Hugh Vrayaa, f tha Aaterteaa y4erMlon
of UMt, as athm taking a leading a
ia tfea UWjlp ware la
MAt IMbVMW iBffWIsiAoUt
QUICK NEWS
WASHINGTON 1
ATHLETICS",. 0
Slinw nnd nharrlty; Myora nrirtirlolulclit
KTAV YO5K
roSTQN
J
)
-.
CHICAGO O O
BROOKLYN 1 O "
Viuiglm nnd Wilson; Smith nnd Miller.
ST.LOUIS .
NEW YORK ' r
PITTSBURGH O O O O O O O O
BOSTON O O O Q O O O 1
Cooper and W. Wngncr; Tyler nnd Blackburn,
h,
O-
O
1
4 O
'a o
TODAY'S RACING RESULTS
Tirst "Woodbine race, Lincoln plntcj $000 ndded, 2-ycar-olds, 0
furlongs Easter Illy, 107, Itoblnson, $5.20, $3.70,, $3.10, won;
Hazel Nut, 110, Parrlngton, $14.00, $0.10, second; Iln'sty Cora, 100,
Dishmon, $11.10, third. Time, 1.15.
Tirst Havre do Grace race, maiden 2-year-olds, 5 furlongs
Filendless, 115, Steward, $11.20, $7.10, $3.70, won; Kilts, 112, Ball,
$O.C0, $3.50, second; Swoon, 115, Byrne, $3.20, third. Time, 1.01 1-5.
1500 RAILROAD MACHINISTS STRIKE
NEW YORK, Sept. 27. Announcement was mnde today that the
International Association of Machinists have declared a stilke on tho
New York, Ontailo nnd Western Hallway. About 1500 machinists
nro involved and 0000 men in other trades affected. The men demand
nu inciease of threo cents puer hour lu wages.
TWO OF CITY'S
REGIMENTS TO
LEAV0 BORDER
First and Third Ordered 1
Horne Soon-After
October 1
PLANNING FOR WELCOME" I
i
Rousinp; Jubllco Scheme for Sol-f
tllors Meets Hearty In- j
dorsement T
GERARD PERMITTED TO COBIEvHOME
WASHINGTON, Bept. 27. Secretary of Suite Lansing today announced that
permission hail been ulen Ambassador Gerard In Germany to come to tho United
States ''forli vacation," the time of his leaving Germany to be left to him. Ha Is
expected to sail from Copenhagen with Mrs. Gerard tomorrow.
SUBMARINES SINK TWO NEUTRAL SHIPS
LONDON', Sept. 27. DJspqtches to the Exchange Telegraph Company today re
ported the sinking of two neutral shlpB by German submarines. They were the
Norwegian steamship Danln, 8C2 tons, destroyed In the North Sea, nnd the Greek
ftf.amatllM A&.at-inAAH 4K .U!I ... 1 .,. .nt L .1.
......,, .Aaiiiin.unp au, iuiid, csuuit in mo iueuuerrnncan. anc crews ui uowi
"were suvkl.
PHILADELPHIAN GETS STATE ENGINEER'S POST
Atwood L. Bile's, 73 1 Oxford sticet, today waq appointed by Governor Brum
baugh to the post of State engineer to assist tho Director of Wharves, Docks nnd
ferries. He takes tho placo of Hlchard A. McFaddcn, who resigned last Bummer.
Tho position pays J10CO. Jir, uuM j,a3 been engaged in engineering work for a
number of years and helped In tho construction of the river tunnels In New York.
COMMERCE CHAMBER TO DINE SIR THOMAS LIPTON
Sir Thomas Llpton, yachtsman nnd merchant, has accepted nn invitation to bo
entertained by tho Philadelphia Chamber of Commerce on October 19, when a ban
quet will bo tendered to him and other nationally known business men at the Belle-vue-Stratford
Hotel, where 600 covers will be laid. Bartley Doyle, president of the
Keystone Publishing Company, has been appointed general chairman of the enter
tainment committee. The yachtsman will make an address upon "Salesmanship."
PRICE OF FLOUR HIGHEST SINCE CIVIL WAR
CHICAGO, Sept. 27. I-'lour has ndvnnced 20. cents a barrel, tho hlnhcsUlevel
reached since the Civil War. Standard Minnesota patents sold for ?9.10 a barrel, an
Increase of $3 oer a year ago. Tho cheaper grades of flour sold to the' bakers'
trado also were advanced 10 and IS cents.
GRAIN DEALER FIGHT PROPOSED STORAGE INCREASE
WASHINGTON, Sept. 27. Declaring tho business of Baltimore commission
merchants and grain receivers, representing eighty per cent, of the Baltimore Cham
ber of Commeice, will be destroed to the advantage of grain exporters, the cham
ber, in n brief filed with tho Interstate Commerce Commission, today attacked as
prohibitive and Illegal proposed Increases In grain elevator storage charges at the
port of Baltimore. The Baltimore and Ohio Railroad is defendant.
U-BOATS SINK ELEVEN TRAWLERS IN NORTH SEA
LONDON, Sept. 27, German submarines are becoming more active In the
North Sea, An Uxchange Telegraph dispatch from Scarborough today reported the
destrubtlon of cleen trawlers. All the crews were saved.
SPAIN PROTESTS AGAINST U-BOAT SINKINGS
MADRID, Sept. 27. Tha Spanish Government has sent a note to Berlin pro
testing energetically against 'the torpedoing of Spanish steamships by German
submarines.
FIFTY HEIRS TO PEERAGE KILLED IN. BATTLE
IX)NDON, Sept 27. The death of the son of 13. Wyndham Tennant, eldest son
of Lord Glcnconncr, Is announced. He Is the fiftieth heir to a peerage to lose his
life in the war. He fell September 22, at tho age of nineteen. He was p. grand
nephew of Mrs. Asqulth, wife of the Premier.
" SUBMARINES SINK ITALIAN AND NORSE SHIPS
WASHINGTON, Sept. 27 The American Consul at Barcelona has advised tho
Btate Department that the Italian bark Garibaldi, from Baltimore to Leghorn, was
sunk by a submarine September 34, 100 miles southeast of Palms, de Mallorca, The
Norwegian steamship Bufjord, of 1489 tons net, has been sunk,' according to a
Lloyd's dispatch from Barcelona. The crew was landed,
T-
, SIXTY KILLED IN TEUTON RAID ON BUCHAREST
BUCHAREST, Sept. 27. Sixty persons were killed and a Urge number wounded
In Bucharest Monday afternoon by bombs dropped by a squadron of aeroplanes
of tho Teutonic allies, and five others, all children, were killed Monday night by
bombs dropped on the city from a Zeppelin, according to an offlclal'communltatlon
Issued today.
HUGHES WILL MAKE 20 SPEECHES IN HOME STAtfE
NEW YOBK, Spt. 27.Throo busy days of epeechmaklng In thtf State have
been arranged for Charles E. Hughes by the Republican national eommlttee, with
twenty indoor and outdoor speech Thursday, KrJday and Saturday of tWs weak,
SUPPLIES RUSHED ABOARD ILLINOIS FOR RUN TO MEXICO
Provisions for three months and 160 tons of real are being tued abeai4 tha
battleship Illinois, now at th'e PhHadephta Navy Yard,.wWch has been arered m
sail ror vera wrux 10 relieve me AeurusKa, u la Believed tha JJilwis will eav
Philadelphia about October 1 In charge of Commander K, A. Trout,
ARGENTINE SHIPS WHEAT HERE FO FIRST TIME
BUKNOfl AHUM, Seat. 17. The Argentine eteamakla Pamaa sella far x
retk with 4M tons of -wheat and name, 1 otar aWi 'rrl wfeh what Wtt
twavr. mvwsxmpare ou awantiwi ta we tact Uat 1Mb a tike swt
Vitas ae mm fSpojiM to las Ualtea
WASHINGTON, Sept 27PhUa4e4-j
phlans will have a chance to srlve Pern i
sylvanla troops, returning from a lew i
of duty on the Mexican border, the Ui
of a reception they had planned.
It was learned at the War Depart
ment today that two of the three regl. I
menta of Pennsylvania Infantry that f
areo be returned from the Mexican I
frontier soon after October 1 are tha f
Philadelphia regiments, the First aa4
Third.
Tho other regiment to be returned lew
the Tenth. Grcensburg Is the head-i
quarters of the Tenth Regiment, bat,''
the band section comes from Connella-
vllle and the 12 companies from the fel"j t
lowing places: Company A, Mononga-,
hcJa; B, New Brighton; C, Somerset; D,
Conncllsville; E, Mount Pleasant; F, Ib- '
diana; G, Hollidaysburg; IT, Washing-'
ton; I, Greensburg; K, Waynesburg; L,
UlalrsYille; M, Latrobe.
While tho sMoMInn nt thn nulnnta I
of Pennsylvania troops has been left ta I
the commander of the SouthernDivU i
sion, it was stated br officers in tha I '':
division of militia affairs that the First,
Third and Tenth were the, ones toba
sent as soon as the troops ordered tsj.
relieve them arrive at the border. The ,
Pennsylvania troops will then go ta
their mobilization camp and be mus
tered out of the Federal service.
It Is vital to the causa of preparedness
for Philadelphia to give a generous welcome
to ths troops when the.y' return from the
Mexican border, according to a statement'
Issued today by George "Wentworth, Carr
secretary of the Citizens' Soldiers' Commit
tee, of which Mayor Smith is chairman, J,
Mr. Carr said that if Philadelphia turne
a cold shoulder to the home-coming troops
It Is likely that thousands of ,younr men .
who have been serving their country on the k
border would leave the National Guard la
disgust.
VOno of tho greatest blows ever received
by the National Guard." said Mr. Carr."
"was In 1898. Thousands of young men re
turned from the various Insanitary training
camps In high disgust at the treatment
they had recched. The guard has never
fully recovered from the stigma place
upon It at that .time.
'Thousands of Philadelphia men broke
home and business ties to go to the bor
der. In the aggregate their patriotism
cost tbem millions of dollars. They are go
ing to be a sore lot of men if they return
to this city and Hnd that Philadelphia has
not appreciated what they have done. I am.
certain that they will get out of the National
Guard as quick as they can and Trill never
go In again. ,
'Th,esa men are nowr highly trained men.
If properly treated they will remain In tbe
National Guard and become the, nucleus of
the highly-trained armj required by the
Hay bill. If they are not properly treatea
we are likely to witness a great slump t
the cause of preparedness.
There Is another matter that should'
brought to the attention of Phlladelphtaiw'
In connsctlon with the home-coming of the
troops. Our committee is rtow caring for .
the families of 40E soldiers on tbe border.
The work will have to be carried on pre
ably for a couple of months after hus
bands and fathers return homo from the
front. Many of these men when they r- '
turn will be without positions. We have got
to take care of their families wh(le, they are
hunting Jobs. It would be brutal to cut K
their aid the minute. they land In Phila
delphia, ,,
"Ho If we are to have a genuine home
coming, a real welcome without any fate
ring to It, let us patriotic cltlxens dig dowp
Into our pockets and contribute,"
Select Councilman John J. Conroy urged
that the Mayor take action at once toward
the appointment of a cltlxena' conpaitase te
make arrangements for the proposed home
cotn'ng celebration.
Commandant Montgomery, nt Fraaklet4'
Arsenal, salds "I am iaavor ef (trine; tae
boy: a whole-heartea weoe. Tir de-
sens It, and pfiliaaeleiila sfcouM be
of whet they have deac"
16,000 GUARDSMEN OKlHSWtt.
TO DUTY ON MKX1CAM
Third PanMylvaeia WU1 Be fwUrM
JBMw trVttANVfHS
vfAsmmTm.;- ti
' ki flu Vby
- IA MHBTHBVI
-lag nilkie, irsaaJeattAs:
TMta .Atmam ArttHery;
uw Jeeeejr Anoktnt: fctunr ,JT
t cotuoitaa AMMtery : Km BaauH
Mattery C Virginia Flsld ArtlUsry;
'New Tar'Anllier' hu,,ie A a
Alaeaaaa FxM Artillery First Battafl
Qeofgia Artillery; Batteries K ai, T.
iiactleut Artillery , livo6 Klui laa tr1
Third lMrtii of Iclumbik I ',t.,lry ,
A, iMSUlll " 1 llUHBVIh kull
a It. MiUuai Fuiu ArtlUwta
, vom Houii
&
