r
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Overcast and warmer to-day ; to-morrow
showers ; moderate south winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 7a; lowest, 4S.
Detailed weather, mall and marina report on pat 7,
he
IT SHINES FOP, ALL
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 27.
' NEW YORK, WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1916. Copyrt,M,J.l,6y lne Sun Printing and rubUiMng AstoeUxtion.
ONE CENT
la flreater New Totk, I Elsewhere
Jersey tllr and Newark. 1 TWO CHNTS.
TWO BIG UNION
BODIES REFUSE
TO JOIN STRIKE
longshoremen and Boat
men, 57,000 Strong,
Recalcitrant.
CHIEFS SEE 250,000
OTHERS OUT TO-DAY
Violation of Agreements
With Employers Proves
a Real Obstacle.
SIX HUNDRED LOCALS
ACT OX LABOR CALL
Extent of Sympathetic Move
for Carmen May Not Be
Known for Days.
Elfht o'clock this morning was the
hour "t by the general labor confer
ence for the suspension of work In all
trades In the greater city in support of
the striking carmen. That hour w
ct to mark the crisis In tho fight of
orranid labor against the traction ln-
urestt. It was to show either that the j
unions are arrayed firmly together or
that each union feela It lias enough to
Jo to light Its own battles. j
The call for stoppage of work went
to (50,000 members of 600 union locals
throughout the greater city. The union
liadrrs, led by Hugh Frayne, organizer
fr the American Federation of Labor,
A3i Crnc.it Bohm. secretary of the On
trl Federated Union, said confidently
Dat with an air of gravity last night
hat between 200,000 and 260,000 union
numbers would fall to. report at their
reipectlve trades this morning.
lesa Organisations Lost.
Thtir contention, without going Into
4t!la they declined to mention the
times of unions waa that among the,
unions which would qujt work are or
rinliatlons that ran tie up many plants
ind tender It Impossible for many non
union employees to go on with their
irork. Messrs. Frayne and Bohm were
ntVent. but a committee of union men,
headed by Mr. Frayne. informed Mayor
Mitchel solemnly yesterday afternoon
that a quarter of a million workmen
wo'jlcl join In the Walkout this morning
'nd that 100,000 will be added each
morning In the next three days.
The teamsters were In' doubt until the
Mtcutlve committee of the International
Brotherhood In a meeting at 781 Eighth
ie-,ne last night voted to call a strike
nf it members In the greater city, numbering-
20,000. The day for the strike,
t nas nnnounced, will be left to the
Uard of business agents, who will meet
n tn same hall to-morrow, morning at
10 o'clock.
Results of Locals' Strike Votes.
four locals of the carpenters' union,
having a membership of S.000, voted In
hi; l.at.or Temple last night to leave the
question (if a sympathetic walkout with
'.:e district council, which meets to
morrow night at H2 East Fifty-ninth
Hret, There are sixty-three carpenters'
local., with a total membership of 63,
"OO, In the city.
Local No. SIS of the painters' union,
meeting In tho Labor Temple, agreed to
-bide by the decision of its district
ouncll, which will meet on Saturday
Urht at the Central Opera House. Klxty
eventh street and Third avenue. The
painters and allied unions have a mem
bership nf 20,000.
Ucal No. 34 of theMetal Polishers. In
he l abor Temple, decided to leave the
I'clflon of a walkout with Its executive
lommtttee, which Is scheduled to meet on
Saturday night In the Labor Temple.
The Journeymen Tailors, in the Hohe
mlan National Alliance Ilulldlng, 321
East Seventy-flrst street, voted a aym
pathetlc strike and selected a committee
"f eight to determine the date of the
Tslkout.
ralntera quit at 8 P. 31. To-day.
Meeting In the same building the Ital
ian Painters Fnlon. Iocal No. 874, with
210 members present, voted to quit work
at 3 o'clock this afternoon.
The white stone workers, meeting In
ths aamcr hall, selected a committee to
et with other unions on the strike
lUMtlon.
I-ocal No. 1011 of the painters' union
voted at 175 Fast Broadway In favor of
strike. Irfirjii No. 442. meeting at SIS
Kast Broadway, adopted a flmllar reso
lution. Between elghfoen and twenty locals
"t the International Ladles' Garment
w'orkers, meeting in Beethoven Hall,
oied on tho strike question, but no an
oweninnt ns to the vote was made.
T,i'r! was. much angry discussion bo
ln'i'l " Insed doors.
liight hundred members of the Jew
Iry Workers Fnlon met hi Webster
llo'l. Jlleventh street and tho Bowery,
mght and voted to refer all ques
ioi .i of a sympathetic strike to their
Meeutlvo board.
While the union men were making
'l'f c.aims last night they were forced,
In answer to questions, to admit that
'.uportant organizations on which they
mi counted a few days ago were no
io'im with them. The most Important
f thev li the Iingshoremen's Interna
'lon.il Arfoclntlou, which with allied or
ganizations, numbers about 45,000 men.
1's rr'iident, T. V. O'Connor, said that
ths lnrghoremen "will not strike to
morrow," Another group on which Mr. Bohm
"omitlng on Saturday, the Tidewater
oatrr.m s Fnlon or 3,000 members, also,
saltl, will not Join In the walkout.
t nlnn Leaders Checkmated.
The. union leaders had counted on
Walyzlng the city's shipping, but In
i's Miey were checkmated by two tm
retain moes, in tlc firt place the
"nipln..rs hae not been Idle. As the
utadr of respective unions approached
CoMimuU Jairat ft
FRENCHCONDUCTOROF
BALULl bam sikauss
Pierre Monteux Tells Metro
politan Company Ho Won't
Play Enemy Music.
The International difficulties of the
Metropolitan Opera Company, which
have been mora or lesa acute alnce the
beginning of the European war. broke
out again yesterday when rierre Mon
tcux, aoldler of France, tho new con
ductor of the Dlai-hlleft Husstan ballet,
refused abeolutely to direct the Austrian
ballet of Itlchard Strauss.
Monteux was In the trenches near
Verdun when the pews came to him
that Minister Brland had been eer
auaded by the Metropolitan Opera Com
pany to grant him six months leave of
absence, lie laid down the rifle he had
been firing; at the Germans, took up his
violin and walked eight miles to a rail
road station tho day before the llocham
beau sailed from Bordeaux.
When Monteux arrived here he dis
covered the names tit Liszt. Schumann
and Htraurs among the list of composers
wnose worxs ne was supposed to con
duct, and right away there were fire
works In the offices of the opera com
pany. "It is not because the music is typ
ically German, but because the com
posers are." he said. "I, a soldier of
Trance, cannot play the music of an
enemy."
Otto II. Kahn, chairman of the board
of directors of the Metropolitan Opera,
pointed out that Monteux should not
take into consideration the nationality
of Uezt and Schumann, who are dead.
urauum m iicnuamon rouiu
Induce him to direct the music of itlch-
ii-r? i i ' ....
.hAUIi??.!f" n. ?fJhe 8l8r"i
Lh?f !h,irin f','-"B,V
W The "EXT rm SS,. '
-.1 ". ... h.. I, Mi..:
IV,: t.r...... . Vi" . ' ".Z VAV.-w :
.iiuiiiiniinii vi'iritt .luu.ie vji i utiuiicr
9. and the Metroiiolitau Opera Company
announces that
scheduled, but ns
decided who will
which M. Monteux
thing to do with
FOUR ARMED
It will be given as . years, tne nemocrats or tnn tstati- seemed Mr V..r tli untimiii... u... . .t , , .. . . . . - " ----- x wumuira,
ULttaruS,.. rrUeT ? .i6??? bee-fied - eI-borte system of heavily
refuses to have any-1 pon.tion- nich deal through deiicates. , districts out of i.79s gue Martiue S 1 "r ,r . .. l1 " .r . T I1,. 1 ? ,"c" !?: wirea irencnes. ine uermans regarded it ns imnrecnable. and
A IITAIlm v fii nilTtTVll iimiij oi ute sinnii naaer. v certain pro
I.AIII1U I AT HrlKKV',l"rllon "f the public, a large one it is
vMUVIIll nl rDillll ' Ix-Heved. will rebel against the extra cent
and will prefer to take n smaller loaf .it
the old price. This will brin them to the
Suspected of Belli- Post Office
Bobbers, Two Had Nitro
glycerine. Four men suspected of being Post'
Office robbers were arrested last night
ai me ...Deny street rerry of the Jersey
Central as they were waiting to connect
with a long Branch train. All four were
armed with revolvers. The pockets of
two of them contained bottles of nltro.
glycerine, detonating fuses and soap.
The men. who were well supplied with
iiaa. art t
George Edwards, alias Portland Fatty,
alias The Vanderbilt. years old.
William II. Itennett, alias William
Burns, and best known as California
Ulll. 38 years, old.
John Stanford, alias John Lynn, alias
i awtucwet jonnny. q years oia.
Harry Ogden, alias Harry Foley, alias
Connecticut mackie. 40 year old.
All fnue wer. ntMred .hrouh I
operation of Supt. Thornhlll of he ,
iiint.rinr. in.n.nn. ni .1,. n.i
........ w, , ur.
Olllce Department and city patrolmen
and detectives, one or the Plnkerton
men met niackle several days ago and
recognlxed him. The detective shadowed
him from that time and notified Inspec
tor Jacobs. Yesterday they trailed him
to Brooklyn, where he met the other
three, and returned with them to the
ferry.
Superintendent Thornhlll. with Ser
geant Walsh and Patrolmen Tlmmons,
Downing and Gallagher of tho First Pre
cinct, with drawn revolvers rushed Into
the smoking ruoin of the ferryhoui"e and
took the quartet by surprise.
YOUNG KTLNEE A SUICIDE.
In!
Bank Employee Found Dead
Home In West 781b Street.
Frederick D. Kllner, 29 years old, em
ployed by the Franklin Trust Company
of Brooklyn, was found dead In his room
on the top floor of his home, 335
. I1.ft U.,..,.l...Alhlli . , Oiu. r,ft 1)1.'-
rrslde' Drive, yesterday afternoon by his
father, Samuel H. Kllner, banker and
real estate operator. Coroner Healy de
clared, after nn examination, that young
Kllner hud committed suicide by taking
carbolic acid.
The parents of'Frederlck Kllner have
been spending the summer at Rye, N, Y
and ho has been commuting, as the city
hotpe was cloaed. When he failed to
come home Monday night, or telephone
his mother, as was his custom, she be
came worried and his father came at
once to the city. At the home he
found the door to his son'a room locked,
and when he gained entrance he found
his son dead In bed.
The father at once summoned Dr. Wal
ter Mendelson of 159 West Seventy
eighth atreet, who said that Jlje young
man had been dead for several hours.
Ills accounts at the bank were said to
be correct.
DANISH SALE TO 00 THROUGH.
Opposition to V. 9. Project In Par
liament Dylntg Oat.
CorKNilAOEN, via London, Sept. 26.
Interviews with the representatives qf
the various parties In Denmark disclose
that the ciuestion of the sale of the Dan
ish West Indies to the United States will
bo settled without resort to a general
election on the basis of the Government
bill, which lias now passed all stages
and been sent to a Joint committee of
both houses of Parliament.
From statements made to the corre
spondent It Is apparent that everybody
In the Itlgsdag Is tired of the question.
The opposition to the bill seems tn be
based solely on the desire of tho party
out of power to raise an Issue for uu at
tempt to return.
TO START THREE NEWSPAPERS.
Albany "Knickerbocker - Press"
Will Hare Afternoon Editions.
Ai.iiant, Sept. 26. Lynn J. Arnold,
president of the Press Company, pub
Usher of the Albany h'tiicaerborfccr
Vrritu, announced to-night that his com
pany Intended to begin publishing In
the near future afternoon newspapers In
Albany, Troy and Kcheneetady. All of
the papers are intended tn bo afternoon
editions of the Kti(ckfrliockrr-Prra. but
will be publlahed from separate plants
In etch of tha tnm towna,
SAME PRICE, LESS
,
DiiMD, BAI BARMS
Ilctail Brcadmakcrs Refuse to
Join Big Concerns in a
Six Cent Size.
ALL A HE LOSING MONEY
Profit Possible Only if Product
Can Be Sold at Half Cent
an Ounfe.
"Not more money, but less bread," Is
the decision of the city's retail bakers on
the threatened Increase In price of the
staff of life. Instead of taking an extra
cent or two for the twelve ounce loaf the
bakers are to cut the size of the loaf It
self. Joseph Hartlgan, Commissioner of the
Bureau of Weights and Measures, yes
terday explained that the new schedule
will go Into effect Immediately. Not only
will bread go flown In weight, but every
thing eWe manufactured from flour. The
probabilities ire that pics' will grow
Kmaller In circumference and depth, and
there will be fewer or smaller buns ami
rolls In the bag for a nickel.
Two reasons are assigned for the
Sm I fm mlnniaJ at. Iiatfafa la Vi
realization that consumers will stand for
a maller purchase vnlue rather than
pa. a ,gntr pr,ef- The other , cornpt.
tltlon. As to the first It applies not only
the s cent loaf, but to the 2. 3 and 4
cent lf o!d In the poorer districts. All
?.'.' JM!1 !?.
'"" unow ill" uire..u
diminutive 2 cent article will look like,
small baker, away from the corporation,
"'"iJJI"' f'J??h;f B.
Weights and Measures 1ms taken In the)
matter nn f.ir un. nhen lnn.ti.l. .Inner
Hartlgan yesterday Introduced to the
Uoanl of Aldermen n resolution calling
for the establishment of a li ounce loaf I
as the standard. This, however, will iot
affect either the price or alie of loaf
sold, for n 'half sized loaf or any other
fraction may he sold, and the Aldermen
have-t;o power to fix prices. .
It is conceded that some Increase In ,
price of bread Is Imperative In view of.
the enormously higher cost of flour nnd
the Increase! nerhvad expenses of th
bakers. Commissioner Hartlgan told yes
terday of three lare baking conrer-.s
which had been reported to him as on
the erge of going out of.buslness unles
some Immediate relief was obtainable.
Price Half Out an Ounce.
"Consumer.! will get a ten ounce loaf
for 5 cents and a twenty ounce loaf for a
dime," Commlsf loner Hartlgan an-
nounceJ. "The campaign of the National
o . L..- . ..'Ti .i .1 ' 1 ... " .'.. ."i
u- , T' . " vll" v"
V.. .1. ' ' , , . - , .
Wj- urniers inenivM es iin.i uy pnoiic
opinion The change follows the schedule
of decreasing loaves that has obtained
since July. KG I. Since then the average
3 'cent loaf has been reduced four ounces
and the 10 cent loaf has been reduced six i
ounces. The slie of rye and brown bread
loaves will decrease on the same scale as I
the white flour" '
mailer l.oaf Preferred. omeining or u Joke In the Senate tor th,r men and women from their traus. and the levolutlonlsts will Join the rest SUrnaSSeS in military advantage PVP11 ihn tnL-in.r ,.f r'..mt,1u
'panyXeYdThaVTiod 'rej 'hf"R: TeUun.;? hrX" ' K?r "'" VJ. "'""VkvH esrate M Thiepval had held up the British
MUM myi ? nnd havo isin:u.or;i;c.-io.nh,gth;";i.me a.- e" wn wr momns-ever since the Somme offensive began.
MEN rlr.' lZXr.? t ,ub- ne, , The village marked the northernmost limit of the Allies' gain.
In Itocheser the halcers took the oppo- . Rtratlon for trying to turn down the
site action, raising the price for .the farnu.r orator" In favor of Attorney
twelve ounce loaf from S cents to 0 cents (jctloral Wescott.
yesterday. According to the head of ono I .n, white Houe never made any
of the larger companies the rise will be , pu,ie announcement of Its wlxhes In tho
i""""""1" ""0
losing money for six month".
FLOUR REACHES $!).10.
Highest Level Since Civil War He-
nena Talk of Export Rmbarxo,
Chicago, Sept. 26. Flour Jumped 20
cents a barrel to-day, the highest level .
patents sold for I9.10 n barrel, an In-
reuse of 13 over a year ago. The cheaper
grades of flour sold to the bakers' trade
siso were auvancen iu ana lo cents u
barrel. Grades which yesterday sold for
IS, 6d brought 18,60 and 5.65 to-day, und
Chicago bakers renewed pl-uis toward
raising the price of bread.
Wholesale." bakers became defiant In
their attitude when their profits were
threatened. J. P. nines, manager of tho
Ward Baking Company, which has ad -
vertlsed It will raise the price from C to
6 cents a loaf, beginning Thursday, said
other bakers would be forced Into like
action or go bankrupt.
"We were already forced by the high
prices," he raid, "to raise a cent a loaf.
The present Jump In the cost of flour will
force others to do likewise."
"Keep on telling the housewives to buy
flour nnd make their own bread, and see
how much they will save with flour at
9.10 a barrel," said Paul Schulze, head
of the Schulze Company. "Just keep on
toiling trial, lie reneroien.
WHEAT CAUSES RISE.
Tire ."Voir 74 Centa Bnshel More.
Than on Same Date In 10111.
Minneapolis, Sept. 26. Millers safd
. I.. , .. . . i j , M .
. ... ,h. E U li. ,1,ur
due wholly to the high price of wheat,
?.2WCr 0nhT "0M fHr
15-8 a bushel on the Minneapolis
.'l"uT" -
With tho price of cash wheat aver
oglng from $1,65 to Jl.70 tt Is not sur
prising that flour prices are one-third
. --- - - -- . - ... -
more than they were a year ago," said
r rM.ri n;i u, vt,, i, ,ivr-'i. .iuriii n Ills1
Nnrthwratern MUler. "Tho price of cash
wheat one year ago yesterday was 97
rents, Flour Is mounting simply be
cause the price of wheat l going sky
ward." ' I. w. W. ROUNDED UP.
.North Yakima Cltlsrns Full In Ef
fort to Deport Them,
NonTll YjAkima, Wash., Sept. 26,
Forty men, most of them members of
llm Industrial Workers of the World,
were locked In regrigcrator cars hero
tn-diiy by 150 citizens, who were armed
with baseball bats and axe handles.
The citizens- intended shipping them
out of town, but the railroad refused to
handlo tho cgrs. The men were then
marched back to town and put in the
county jail.
EDGE WINS, MARTINE
AHEAD INN. J. VOTE
Former Beats Colgate by More
Than 15,000 in tic
Primaries.
REBUKE TO WILSON SEEN
President's Candida to Appar
ently Defeated Murphy
Losing, in Senate Race.
Trenton', N. J.. Sept. 27. Senator
Walter Edge of Atlantic City was noml-
nated at the Itepubilcan primaries yes-.
terday for Oovernor by a plurality of be-1
tween. 13,000 and 20,000 over Col. Aus-
ten Colgate of Jersey City. Oeorgo L.
Hecord of Jersey CltT reform candidate, I
polled a substantial vote In a number j
of tho counties, though In the aggre
gate he wns far behind either IMge or
Colgate.
Kx-Stnte Senator Joseph S. Fre'.lng
lmysen of Somerset county led ex-Governor
Franklin Murphy of Kseex fori
the Itepubilcan nomination for 1'nlteil
.States Senator nt an early hour thU
morning. The rctunm from 353 out of
!.7!"t districts In the State thou Bavoi"1
Freilnghuysen 13.4S2. mill Muiphy II,-
971. Murphy hail most of the organl-
zatlon support and was backed by David
Balrd. tho south Jersey Republican
leader. Freilnghuysen made a i-anvjs
along Independent lines.
The Demorratle flsht for Inlted States
Senator resulted In tho apparent de -
feat of Attorney-neneral John . es.
c-ott. 'resident W ilson s candidate AI-
.. ...... Ur.. r.
contest.
nM . . . - a
BETTJBXS; rrnifA.' Xf.nW l.V
i .-artk n.iin. ill,, c-nuniinir
, v. o..e.u.
Statewide primaries In New Jersey,
1-jiM.... lla..n. t,.x.. .ll.l.i.
cloee until 9 o'clock last night, and
owing to the length of the ballot- and
the slow lountlnir of the vote bv the
eleellnn boards nnlv lnr..nn.:..te returns
liad been received up to midnight.
tt. fl J.t.iMH fieri, . i..ro, -,-.,-r-i
John W. Wescott probably was defeated
In his contest for the Democratic noml-'
nation for United States Senator by
Senator Jamea K.- Marine, familiarly
Known an "ine larmer orator, wno ue.
ll ed that party usage entitled him to
n num. nation.
II otto Wlttpenn of lludon county.
Naa1 Ulcer of the Port of New York
and former Mayor of Jersey City, was'
named by the Democrats for Governor,
ii.. ,. ti,.. ..i,. ., r, .i,.
higher honors In both parties who didn't
have anything to worry about
He had
no opposition.
Twelve candidates for Congress, nine
for the State Senate and sixty for the
' V "
" V"" " tV' M e, - h 7.
.. ......v
in si . onKrews .uetricin iiu inr iriini
erals had an equal number. There
c?eii Itepubilcan and three Denioc
contests for State Senator.
Ilebake to Wllann.
The probable rennmlnatlon of Fulled i
suites Senator Martlne will be consld
rebuke to the Wllsor A.lmln
matter, but t was known to n Demo-
rratlo leaders nnxloua to pl.vr-o 1'resl-
dint Wilson that he wasn't particularly i
desirous of seeing Martlne returned to
...a Unn.u Th.r.fnr. M'r.l .'na I
the Senate. Therefore word vns pent
along the line that the nritaiilzition
"boys should work fnf Wescott, and
theto was no alternative left for Mjr
tlne but to take his case "dlrectlv to the
people,"
ministration was based on two speeches
w hich ne inane, ui jiammoro ami
Louis, nominating Mr. WUson for tho
iiwuiwi, .... u .-... iubwi ..mr.
t. N'uaent of Ktnix county, who once
i vigorously rnugtit -ir. nson, wonted
tooth and nail with his or-sanizatlon for
I Weetcott.
.
Martins' First ( andldary.
, Martlne ran for UnlteJ States Senator
1 ( preferential primaries on September
1,1, 1910, He received only 47,45s votes,
tut that was four times more than his
opponent received. Nobody took the
preferential choice Idea seriously In those
days .and Martlne. was put In the rare
by some Bob Davis Democrats In Hud
son county because they thought It would
be a- good Joke,
Gov. Wilson, however, Insisted that as
tho peoplo had voted for Martlne It was
tgi to the Democratic Legislature to elect
I ,..,., , Mr. Wilson's
..ll,,,t. .l.l. ...fnlt.l .i..
i Senator James Smith, then n.
Stnte
leader, who Insisted that he. Smith, was
entitled to the place. Wilson stood firm
for Martlne, the Legislature elected him
on January 2.1, 1?11, nnd Smith pnsMd
out of politics,
Mr. Martlne hasn't tried to hld his
belief that the Administration ofllel.ils
null.
had no rlKht to go buck on the good old
f. ,i .iii ..... .,.? i
.ieservcd' o er." He lias said
tnat ho B,wnys vot,.(I , conscience
dictated In tho Senate, even f hh vote
didn't always please the President,
The Progressives did not participate
an an orKaiiiy.nu.ui in um ininiiiien ue
cnU9c lne p,irty failed In tho last elec
as an organization In the primaries be-
tlon to poll G per cent, of the total vote
anu unaer me inw iney were exciuuea Puller was first arrested In Phlladel
from nominating candidates. pna iHl January for attempting to ex-
' I ,ort $8,000 from Mrs, J, Bolton Win-
wiweiTT mm nrnnrrn i iiennv. a wealthy resident of Phlladel-
illAnoxx uu xai vvinxt&n,
Gets Democratic Nomination For
Governor of Massachusetts.
Boston, 6cpt. 26. rrlmary returns
from half the jn-rclncts, Including nil but
three precincts In Boston, out of a total
of 1,166 for tho State, put Frederick W.
Mansfield In the lead for the Democratic
nomination for Governor by about S.ObO,
with a probable plurality of 13,000 ovtr
Charles H. Cole,
In the Itepubilcan primary Gov, Mc
Call was unopposed for renomlnatlon.
Senntor Lodge and "Honey Boy" John F.
Fitzgerald were unopposed for United
States Senator In their respective partlo.
BRITISH STORM TWO STRONGHOLDS
ON SOMME, CAPTURING THIEPVAL;
ALL OF COMBLES IN FRENCH HANDS
BLACKMAIL VICTIM
READY TO TESTIFY
Edward R. West Admits Guilt
and Offers Experience to
ftV0 Otl1"8
. pnvn TV unTPI lit' IV
,,fAJ 1 p'u HVltAi Jlhltb
William Butler Pleads Guilty
and Goes to Prison for
Eighteen Months.
A second weapon was placed yester
day In tho hands of the Federal au
thorities In charge of the work of end-
the activities of the band of black-
mailers who worked under the cloak of
th, Mann w(,it .. . , Fdwanl n.
1 ... , , lM0 l'' hu"r"
' '"t. vlce-preeldent of the C. D. Qregg
.Tea and Coffee Company of Kew York
and Chicago, visited the Chicago atl-
thorltlcs nnil announced thut he had
,,MI, ., vj0, of ,,, KariK to lne cx(ent
of jjj.noo nnd 1, willing to appear
I aBainl them In court at the cost of great
personal ntimlllatloti. in order to nave
.Mr. Weft, according to despatches to ,
Tut: Si n fiom Chicago, slid that last ;
Htirinu lie met in C'hiraco h i-nunp u-nmn
- - "
ui MM he nan All Wllllanw.
"Subseauently fhe proposed a trip to '
New York with me." paid Wet. a
wiaawer 3 yearn oi.i. on .May we
reached New York nnd went to the I
Hotel Ansonla. At an ur.canny hour
three men armed with Federal warrantH
ludne forced their way Into our
r'"""- woman became hysterical,
" 'aid aho was n convent bred girl and
, 'r P'rents would commit suicide oter
It suicide oter
them what she
the illncrace. She asked
could do to save herself from disgrace.
,an'1 '""J the question of money was
drnltly broached.
Kept I'rlaoaer la Chicago.
"Hefore I knew It we and the black
mailers were In two staterooms racing
back to Chicago. We were kept prl'oner
two or three ilnyn In a hotel, and then
because the woman had been crying nil
the time and appealing to my chivalry I
paid, them 12,r.OO In cash. loiter they
. ,,
The woman, known as Alice' Williams.
. Kad to be Huda Goodman, a member
nf. the band. She Is now In a Chicago
hotel, jinder the surveillance of the Fed-
era! detectives. John T French, fii-orge
V". . " '"i" . -V. ".'i . ' T""".. '. . ' "I
'1 "e . ' 7Z. .."""" ""7."
em. l "d West Pre, ch Is sail to 1 o tl,;
e LZ rrf I wLlbvSrlouU widow wlo
.mmi n 7f, ' VI.
crallc , believes him to be In the men's furnish-
Ing business.
...... . .T . .'.r'..,"
Harry W. Mlnze. manager of West's
New York office, 76 Front street, and
Frank W. Harrlman. manager of the
ITnfpl Atiknnla. werA Inclined tn doubt the I
correctness of the Chicago despatches.
"I has-c known West for several years,"
said Mr. Harrlman, "as he lias been a
patron of this hotel. He ued to come
here with his wife, who died a year ago,
aar Date. Are Confased.
.
Such a visit of alleged Federal or-
fjcers as be describes could not have no
rurr.,i i10rPi West was not at this hotel
. a . ,
on May !: he was hero May 15. regis-
terlng In the morning with a woman he premier said:
(aid was his wife, but whom I did not " 'The purpose of the movement of
see. They left that afternoon. The clerk which I am taking the lead with Admiral
told me West had received nn Important ' Condouriotls Is purely national. Cltcum
buslncrs telegram, nnd had gone back to ntnnces compel me to form a provisional
Chicago. No forcible entry could have ' government, not to overthrow the Athens
occurred without the hotel's watchmen legtmc, but to form a force for the do
and detective knowing or it : rertatnly
West's door could not havo' been broken'
flown, nna ne anu me woman lorceu to
leave."
Mr. Mlnze said that West had sev
eral times mentioned Buda Goodman to
him. and said she was a "clever girl,"
but had not said anything about being
blackmailed. He doubted that West
cavn up llfi.000, saying West could not
have raised such a sum without bor
rowing It.
Attorneys for Mrs. Helen Evers, held
In Chicago as the "lure of the band,
renewed their attempts yesterday to
have State Attorney Hoyne arrested , trymen.
on charges of false Imprisonment fori "I am absolutely convinced," he says,
detaining her. Chief Justice Olson re-1 "that those who now really control
ferred the complaint to Municipal Judro1 Greek policy do not honestly Intend to
Labuy, who has twice refused to rausojurni the country and drlvo out the In-
Hoyne's arrest on a charge of kidnap
ping. Iicd on the same allegations.
Butler Enters Plea nf Gnlltr.
I T.n linnrs nfter Ids nrrlvnl here frnm
Philadelphia yesterday William Butler,
1 one of the dominating factors In the
I blackmail case, pleaded guilty before
IVderul Judge Manlon nnd was sen
eiiecd to one year and six months In
the Federal prison at Atlnnta. The In
dictment charged him with conspiring
to blackmail Mrs. Kllpper by Imperson
ating a Federal officer.
It waH apparent that Butler had de-
Idol to take his medicine In order to
shield certain persons whose nnnios
would hnve been brought out at the trial
of his ease. However. Assistant United
States Attorney Knox made
Butler would not he nbsolv
, consequences of his partlclp
i other cases because of his plea of guilt
,,,, .. lll0 threat of havlnc- her son
arrested on a white slavo charge. Mrs.
Wlnpenny died three weeks ago and If
It had not been for evidence connecting
Butler with the Kllpper case the Federal
authorities would have been forced to
discharge him.
Goodman Oat on 93.1100 Bait.
Chicauo, Sept. 26. Buda Goodman,
who Is accused of having entrapped Kd
ward Tt. West, a wealthy merchant here,
Into n violation of the Mann white slave
act and paving the way for three of her
men confederates to extort 11 5,000 from
him. was released on $2,500 bond to-night
after being iiiierftliuwd by Investigators
for the Department l Justice,
GREECE MAY JOIN IN
WAR TO END REVOLT
Declaration of Hostilities Is
Expected to He Made Against
, Germany To-day.
VENIZELOS IS LEADER
Heads Movement for Procla
mation of Provisional
Government.
ATiir.Ns. sept. 20. King constantine
cnrar'iwe,,w,rh;urderBror:ehk
statesmen who am close to the King
thought the step might be taken to-night
or to-morrow.
The action of Venlzelos In hurrying to
Crete to put himself at tho head of the k
revolutionary movement there Is be-i"'
iievcd to have been the former premier's
that tha I evolution will be abandoned
felt that the entry of (Ir
war haa become a mero qu
reece Into the
nuestlon of dav
nn Ar.a i.-in i.nu...,t- i..irt.d
I'll .1,1- I . I , , - - I I f UI It- ,U I I 1 1 M 1. , 1 1 U , V - 14
i- ... i.,..u- a. ...... i .u. .
marsntee nf tim tntecritv nf dreeee ami .
R oan sulllclent to equip the army and 1
cover the coet of remohlllzatlon.
Th. Itm-nllst oron Fnnrnnf In an
editorial saje that war hould Iw de
clared against Rulgaria without awaiting
mobilisation unless the matter of the re
turn nf the Oreek soldiers mado prleon
crs by the Hulgarlans and sent to Oct-
many in settled without delay,
Meanwhile the revolutionary
movement
Is galrdng in Oreek Macedonia. In Crete, entered the town together, each attend
the A'gean Islands and In Kplrus. ac-, ,,, Mricty to own wtin. Tile
rv.She?eP neW', ""pateh" re" Uritlsh cleaned out the part on the left
Former Deputies, former Ministers of 1' tho railroad, while the French took
the Liberal party, army officers and I the section on the right of the line.
Government officials are leaving Athens The work was accomplished within a
as rapidly as they can get transportation, (t w hour.".
P.ear Admiral Paul Condouriotls, the . ,,, ,,.,., .. r, , ,
rcr,,,.r Minii.. e M..rin. ' ' afternoon tho French pressed
Mlllotl. n
-niou. cor
at Corfu.
accompanied Venlzeloi. Col.""" . a cnwii wum unnii m
commander of tho Jrcek forces
harangued his men nnd after
!?!ll,,,f J",'m no stigma would attach to
Salon.,.; '"r "'
Gen. Constantino Moschopoulos. Chief
of stuff of the Greek army, und .'00 ofll-
ers signed u memorial to the Klmr de.
"ntnif that Greece loin tho Altle..
e"' -Moschopoulos V strongly pro-Ally
ln """inept and when appointed In
. August said. "I think I can bo a precious
ad;ocntli 0,',hi Kntente."
Gen. Moschimoulos Is stronclv nrn.Allv
VENIZELOS IS CRETE.
Annonnpea Ills Plan for Provisional
j Government,
. , ,
I 'NL' . :A Jpateh
1T ' Company from Athens
I. "J'T "etperla hue arrived
In Suda Hay and former Premier Venl-
.i0a will disembark In the momlne.
The Pofrfe to-day publishes
made bv M. Venlzehw be
es a ht.itenient
eforn Ids .li
nurture from Athens In which the former
fence of Greek Macedonia, that being
the only means left to preserve tl.u UM.ty
v.nich lias ulrrady
been harmed by
those who ceded Macedonia to the enemy.
" 'The Athens regime remains Intact,
and If It moves tn the right direction 1
will stand beside It politically and mili
tarily and assist It In every way, I am
leaving as u soldier who, having failed
tn persuade his comrades, does not turn
against teem, but shoulders his rifle to
light the enemy.' "
Former Premier Venlielos In a column
long message to the Times, says he is
, acting In response to a call of his coun-
vadlng Bulgarians.
M. Venlzelos says he advised from the
beginning of the war Intervention by
Greece on the side of the Kntente Allies,
and that subsequent events proved tho
wisdom of his policy,
"I can wait no longer," he continued.
"I am not heading n revolution, In the
ordinary sense of tho word. The move
ment Is not directed sgulnst the King
or his dynasty. It Is the last effort wo
can make to Induce the' King tn come
forth nnd follow the path of duty In tho
protection of his subjects. Ah hoon as
he takes this course wo shall follow his
flag as loyal citizens, and be led by him
against our country s roes,
, "The Greek torpedo boat destroyer
itant United ' I.oncni manngen in leave ine neei anu
It plain that reach the open sea, where It headed for
Ived of the ! either Canea or Salonlcn to Join tho na
clpatlon In ' tional defence movement." rays the
1 I.oncm manager, m leinr ine neei ami
Dully Chronicle's Athens correspondent.
TRIPLE TRAGEDY IN HOTEL.
New York Woman Shoot J. C.
Grareui and Wife Kills Self.
Pilll.APCi.rniA, Sept. 27. J. C.
Graveur, president of tho Alhambra
Garngo Company, New York, was mur
dered and Ills wife waa probably fatally
wounded In the Hotel Walton at 1 o'clock
this morning by Mrs. J. C Ladur, nlso
of New York, who then shot and killed
herself.
The tragedy occurred ln a suite on the
ninth floor of the hotel while more than
150 men nnd women danced on th! roof
garden a floor above.
Haig's Troops Smash German De
fences on High Ridge, Occupy the
Hohenzollern Redoubt and Are
Only 3 Miles From Bapaume
VILLAGE FULL OF DEAD
Gen. Foch's Men, After Clearing Enemy Out
of Combles, Push On and Seize Wood
Vast Stores of Booty in Latest Victory
LONDON, Sept. 26. The Allies won spectacular successes
i Somme region to-day. Two vital strongholds were
captured, and at a third point the British took a village which
puts them a mile closer to Bapaume.
Combles fell to the French and British troops, who entered
if T n rfAr nnnh nlnnmiir ai4
-"ft-"'. uciiiiib uui ntui ui ine IOWI1 WIIOSI! Capture
J had come to be regarded as of the greatest significance
""lu lluKu euBl" ul
Three Miles
Thei Drltish .ileo took fJueudccourt,
In Hie centre of their lino, ducudn
court Is three miles from Uapaump.
Combles fell easily. It could not hold
out ufter the capture yesterday of
Freirlcourt und Morval nnd nil the hlch
ground commanding It. So well was
this recognized that the Allies' nrtll-!
lery did not even fire upon the village
Itself, This morning the khaki clad
Ilrltish ami the French In blue gray
Meglrourt. half way to Morv.il, nnd
nl"-o the greater part nf the strongly
fortified groun.l between this wood nnd
'" -tern horn of St. Vaast wood.
T" , ,s t","'t C lh" TOa'1 Irom 1Ho,u"
1 ' "iiume.
' The Germans bad accumulated vast
..r of ammunition and supplies of all
hind- In their un.lergroun.1 Vmmghnld.
In Combles. The Allies captuied all this.
Fanner came In too mpldly to be
colmtrd, nm, whl!1 ,llc omd;l', rport wa
!lftv mach!ne guns already had
kinds in ttielr umlergrounil stronehnlds
been enumeiatcd In the boot).
The Itrltlah Iteport.
Ilrltish ofllclal report
to-nlght
The
On our right French nnd Brltlrh f
troops Jointly occupied Combles as a '
result or the capture nf Frrglrourt and
Morval. We lnue beaten off heavy
counter attacks In the region of Mor
val and Lea ll.eufs with severe loss to
the enemy.
In our centre we etnrmrd the for
tified village of Guendecourt and hae
driven tho Germans back In disorder.
On our left we captured Thlepv.il
nnd the high ridge catt of It. Ir.dud- '
Ing the Hohenzollern redoubt. This
ridge wns very strongly fortified with )
nn elaborate system of heavily wired '
tienches and was defended with des. .
peration.
The successes gained during the l.it ,
two days may be regarded as nf very
considerable Importance.
The French Iteport.
Toe French official report to-night I
ays in part : J
Tlin battle continued succeesf ully to.
day. North of the Somme the allied
troops Increased their gains of ye, i
terday considerably, having nttained I
within a few hours tho objectives ar-
sUr.eil for the second duy of the
struggle.
This morning the French troops re
sumed the offensive nnd captured the
entire section of Combles situated to
tho east nnd south of the railway.
Our patrols entered In conjunction
with the troops nf the rlKht wing nf
the British nrmy, who were cleaning
up the northwestern part nf fumble.
Shortly afterward the whole village
fell Into our hands.
The booty captured In Combles was
lnrge. The Germans had accumulated
In the etibterranean reRlons of this
place ,.n enormous quantity nf muni
tions and supplies of every kind.
Pilled With German llend.
We collected I'l'l wounded Germans
who had lieen abandoned bv the en
..'., i-., to me rn-
tilled with German
fill)', Combles Is
corpses,
This afternoon our tionps, develop
Ing their ndvanl.tK.s. c.iptuied a small
wood situated north of lTealrourt,
hulf way to Morval, and also the
greater part of the strongly fortified
ground between this wood and tho
western horn nf St. Vaast wood, to
the east of tho llothune road.
The number of iinwnunded prisoners
captured by the French slnco yester
day now reaches 1,200. We have
counted up to tho present thirty ma
chine guns.
The Get mans attempted to create a
diversion by making strong counter at
tacks on tho Fiench right wing. I
Trenches between tho Pernime-llapaume meters (about scietitv square ir !.si ,f
road and tho Sommo were assaulted py territory, ciptund 3't.ftoo iinwnunded
strong forces, but tho attacks were tc-. prlsoneis, removed 4.r.n:i wounded und
pulsed. taken 144 cannon, most or them of heavy
Tho aerial activity on the Somme I calibre; iivk- lino guns ,md other
front was a marvel to nil beholders. , in.itei lal,
Tho French War Ofllco nnnounced that. It Is isilnleil out that the 'iie l..t.e
there were forty-seven aerial battles, In 1 broken the sinilt ' fie Geiii.iis it
which five German aeroplanes were Verdun, diiln'teK . i t . r e i ,. , neip;
brought down and others wem badly if his, m.l..i a n '.i the r
duinaged. (n.vn fiuoi Sue i iu n k .f Cia
As Indicating the hopelessness of the buttle, the account iy, in Gi-m.pi
UnlT nP XI a i i
1 impormilCU Ot tlllS advance
From Bapaume.
defence of Combles. it was t, ported that
onr i'lT" .,r,Ka" ,ovl"ic l'avy gtina
,f, ,llc , vl!lRO before the Ilrltish
veJ. -Y0'"1 "r the French Fregiourt
Team Work of Armies.
A correspondent describing tho s.ei.a
wa ,h? ,no"t tmpresslve erec
triclo for tho observer elnco the begin
nlng of the onrenslve. for the whole
scene, for a dlstanco of ten miles. Uy
spread out in the autumn sunlight be
low the heights which the Allies took
after weeks of Jlnntlng. The perfect
team play of tho two armlesj the cor
respondent describes aa beautiful In Us
ncruracy. I In calculate! that GO.OUO
i' lTh " 1,0U.r.w"f "re1 -,to Mi
. w,,1 " ""ai Intcntlve chorus of
'vard U "1C '"faII,r' ''"Ped for-
The men disappeared n the pnll of
smoke. 1 ollowed n short period nf nn.
lou waiting. Aeroplanes and scores of
caip-aite balloons wer.. .,vrri.,.,..i .k.
"aTo strlv nr'Jn .VYfJlt"'1' !h
on. Soon came .IgnaU ,Vo, h7 , ml
J'T"! lllln of "
anccs gained
' opera,,,,, ealled out the
I " " 1,1 "e positions taken as ex-
lc"r"'y "!':. .MK off the
miteli.
'. wou,,ded began to struggle
'"' rUt'l,i 1,1 M'lte of their p,,n. Ol
cou.s.. they "got n,,.,,..'- .,. FiI,ll. rhr
' "f" ,l"'1 . to letting there. tut what
I . miton.
Of
ley
...... 7. ... ... ."'""
' ....... ..i-i nun- i mat it nn
een fight. According to British office's
the Germans no lonirer h. ..
i tienches, except tlioe which are dug un-
'V1;., '? "le sector which marks the
I.iltlsh gains.
Importance of Combles,
ombles h id 2,000 population befoie
, ho war. It had l.e.n of notable value to
the (.erni.uiH bec.iii-e . nK .i,tv
i clung to it the Fran lulu,;, f,ccdon,
j of action in pushPiK their ofrcniw move-
... """ n.ip.iurne and ivionne on
either elde of it was hampered. Turned
Into a strongly fottlfled position by Ger
man defensUe Ingenuity It persistently
held fast Ilk- a lock In the course of a
.urbulcnt stieam that had to be blasted
loose btfore the chat.nel was fully opened
This procss v..... accoinpli-ln ,1 only
long continued, f.cer.i and costly
llort mi the par: of ti. Driving
In from the somi, the French succc.i
s!v. ly swept by ll.iidec.iurt, Muurepas.
I.e I met and filially reached Frcgicomt
.i mil.i to the ,ast f Combles, More
"ui none tin. less surely
British pushed their ..dvaiue on
north of the German sullent.
the
Hie
Cnl of Victor)' High.
Their struggles to I each
,,n,l l.r.TJ.
" " '."iiieinom were expensive
In time and men, but finally the ground
north of Combles and tome distance to
the east was occupied, putting tho town
.In a pocket of which the opining was
constantly being narrowed by tho drives
of the Allied Kntente armies.
! On -Monday came the combined effort
of the French and British In cln. the
, opening, only two rinds remained over
which the Geimans could withdraw thel
men and guns. The single truck ruUro-id
luni.lng through the place had long been
Useless.
Attacking from the north Gen. Ilalg's
forces pushed to and occupied Morval
cutting the northerly tn.ui r ji nlng to
.e . I i. u ! i '(V,
Striking from the south the Fre-i. b
pushed their line to tl... nutsi.lits of
Fregicouit, sexenrg communication with
t ombles over the southerly io.nl that
,tt,. M p nft.
twecn Morvul und FugUourt. a mile nut
a half in width and reaching ,ek t.
-sreiciung toward Sillily. The gnp he-
i wain i.omnies, was swept from ether di
rection by the combined fire of Fiercli
urn nwiiMi guns,
.1i,r03 PRISONERS.
French llntr Itrcoininrred rvenlr
Square Mile on Homme.
Pans. Sept. 2." - A seinl.olllilal ..
count of the hittlo of Hie Simiiiiio from
Us liegmn.iig, .Inly I, appearing In ii
Itutlrtin ilfi .Inures, says di.tt the
French have conuueied 1m) piu.ir.. l,,:n.
