I ?
1 . % ' ?
- . " *? :/ L
WEATHER- CSfi ^ 4 if >?V ~ Y-V "From Pre*, to Home
Fair and warmer tonight Tomorrow S| MM / k . W / ^ |U( /TOWl rrwl ZO nOHte
Increasing cloudiness, probably followed M I H ^^B Ay A y Yi
by thundershowers; fresh southerly winds. M I ^^B B^W B'WV'W^^r n AH ,. > ?
Temperature for hours, I I T I 1 I 7 j| ' B / I I fl I I 1 I \ 1 M (HXf Within the HOOT
ending 2 p.m.: Highest, p.m. | , I B Wr B B B Br B B B B B B B B #t B JBBB ?
today: lowest. 65. a.m. today. B B B B B fl B B B B B B ^r / B 1 B B
Full report on '
? M C ^ 8won Net CIreelatlea. North sf UnA
CLOSING NEW YORK STOCKS PAGE 17. ISIS, Dally Averse* (iMl lulij. MU7U.
No. 29,454. WASHINGTON, D. C., WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1916-TWENTY-TWO PAGES. ONE CENT.
DISTRICT MILITIA
: GOINGTOBORDER
Transfer of 3d Regiment and
Other Units From Fort
Myer Ordered.
I
MOVEMENT IS DIRECTED
BY SECRETARY OF WAR
Troops in Mobilization Camps of
Thirteen States Also to Be
Forwarded.
After a wait of three months
the hopes of the officers and men
of the 3d Regiment of Infantry,
Troop A, Cavalry, and Battery A,
Field Artillery, now at Fort
Myer, for border service are to
be realized. The War Department
today sent orders to Maj.
Gen. Leonard Wood, commanding
the Department of the East,
authorizing the movement of
these troops to the border.
* It is not yet definitely known where
these troops will go. Their disposition
is left to Gen. Punston, on the border.
The officers at the camp, although they
say they have no definite information
as to the objective of the troops now
there, understand that they are destined
for a point in the vicinity of
Warren. Press dispatches today from
Warren, where other District units
have been in camtx. told of olffers for
their movement to Douglas, thirty
miles away. It is possible that this
movement was directed in order to
make room for the 3d Infantry and the
other units included in the transfer
order.
Order Embraces Many Units.
Secretary Baker of the War Department
before leaving the city gave to
Maj. Gen. Hugh L. Scott, chief of staff,
a memorandum directing the movement
to the border of a number of
militia units still in state mobilization
camps, and among them were the District
troops. Gen. Scott today transmitted
the orders to the adjutant general
to be forwarded to Governors Island,
from which point the troops at
Camp Ordway will get their official information
of the transfer.
|t Is probable that Capt. Horace P.
Hqbbs, the United 8tates mustering
officer at tho camp, will receive his orders
to send the troops within a day
or. two. It requires approximately that
amount Of time for the official papers
to take the routine course. Gen. Wood,
of course, will have to telegraph to
Gen. Funston to ascertain what disposition
he wishes to make of the District
troops which are to be sent him.
After the orders are received at the
camp. It will be necessary to give the
railroads at feast seventy-two hours'
notice, to the end that the requisite
number of sleeping cars and freight
cars may be put on the siding at
Ropslyn. During this interim the tentage
and other equipment will be
packed, and will be loaded with the
limited number of wagons which the
caxpp supply officer has at. his disposal.
Already some of the packing is being
done, so that all will not be left for
a grand rush at the end.
j/eiaiis xi or Arranged.
However, ho details for the movement
have been arranged, and will not
be until the actual orders for the
movement arrive at the camp.
In view of the fact that enough colored
men have been enlisted to recruit
the 1st Separate Battalion, now camped
at Naco, Aria, up to war strength of
160 men to a company, Capt. A. R. McGonegal,
who has been in charge of
recruiting this force, was mustered
out today. It is probable that the last
detachment of colored troops will go
to Naco in company with the 3d Infantry,
cavalry and field artillery.
Six Thousand Guardsmen
Ordered to the Border
From 13 States and D. C.
Some 6,000 national guardsmen from
thirteen states, including those from the
Ittstrict of Columbia, were ordered to the
Mexican border today by the War Department.
and at the same time Maj. Gen.
Kunston was directed to select 10,000
troops now on the border for return to
their home states and mustering out of
the federal service.
Today's order will send south virtually
all of the guardsmen now in the mobilisation
camps of the states named, and will
leave only about 10,000 state troops in
all the country that have not seen servIrA
nn f K? hnrda*
Within a short time the remainder
probably will be ordered out, releasing
more of the organisations now under
Gen Funston's command. The gradual
return and mustering out of all the
guardsmen then is expected to begin.
Battery A. Field Artillery. Maryland,
it was announced, will be returned to
the state mobilisation camp and mustered
out of the federal service.
The organizations ordered south today
include:
Field artillery ? Battery A. New
Hampshire; Batteries C. N, J., 3d Pennsylvania
Regiment: Battery A. District
of Columbia; 1st Battalion and Battery
C. Virginia; 3d New York Regjment,
Batteries A and C, Alabama: 1st Battalion.
Georgia; Batteries E and F. Connecticut;
Batteries A and B, Michigan;
1st Regiment (less 2d Battalion). Minnesota.
and Batteries B and C, Colorado.
Infantry ? Second Florida Regiment
and 3d District of Columbia Regiment.
Cavalry?Troop A, District of Columbia.
Engineers?Company A, California.
Alabama is the only one of the states
named which will have any considerable
number of troops left in the state
mobilization camp.
Federal Fine for Chicago'i Mayor.
CHICAGO. September 27.?Mayor William
Hale Tbompeon of Chicago has been
fined J50? by federal authorities for violations
of the motor boat laws, it became
known here today The fine ha* not yet
been paid, according to an official of the
coast guard service. The fine resulted
from the finding st Green Bay. Wis., of
a mofirr (mat yacht tsnder belonging to
ifaswr Thompson which was without fire
rui~'
llHHMSIHmj?m
DEMOCRATS ACM
TO CWjVERT WEST
"Wilson Acts" on Stage, on
Posters and Cartoons Exhibited
Everywhere.
GERMAN-FOREIGN VOTE
IS SOUGHT FOR EAGERLY
Strong Appeal to Scandinavians.
Henry Ford Deserts Prohibition
for President's Cause.
BY N. O. MESSENGER.
CHICAGO, 111., September 27.
?The democrats are skating circles
around their opponents in all
kinds of showmen's stunts in the
conduct of the campaign out west.
They are bill posting the country
with placards ingeniously appealing-to
the "he-kept-us-out-of-war''
sentiment, cartoons holding up
Hughes to all kinds of ridicule,
placing him in the grasp of Wall
street and so on.
And now here is another feature.
The republicans discover that the vaudeville
and theatrical circuits are
no od trlth Wilann r.f o olllnir
nature.
It has been said that the Hebrews
are for Wilson because of the Brandeis
appointment, but "be that as it may/'l
the theater business controlled by Hebrews
is featuring Wilson and playing
down Hughes in even' popular show
going the rounds. Sometimes during
every performance in this class of entertainment
there is a "grind" on
Hughes and a climax to "get a hand"
for Wilson.
Scandinavian Votg Sought.
The democrats are also busily at work 1
with the foreign vote, differentiated ]
from the German-Americans? Writing <
i off the Germans as an account lost, 1
they are seeking a set-off and a credit j
I from the foreign extraction element fa- <
I vorable to the cause of the allies. !
The western headquarters of the
democratic national management has
a - foreign division with nine separate
branches working among as many different'
nationalities. 1
Reporte from these units of endeavor ]
are said to show gratifying results.
The democrat managers say that 1
their' iftost valuable asset' fct present <
is found among the Scandinavians, Who t
are being appealed to on the ground
of escape from war. This, it is said, ,
strikes into the very heart of the republican
strength in the agricultural J
states of the northwest, admitted republican
territory.
The Scandinavians ? conservative, ,
thoughtful, slow-moving people?are
being most assiduously cultivated by
the democrat workers. They are all
prosperous, getting fabulous prices for
their farm products of every character. '
To their obvious prosperity the demo- '
crats are adding the alluring sugges- 1
tion of peace, the credit for which is 1
claimed in behalf of President Wilson.
Henry Ford for President.
Reports from the automobile manu- i
facturing districts in Michigan coming 1
to democrat headquarters show strong
gains for Wilson. In this connection a i
story is going the rounds, which is here <
repeated as part of the gossip of the '
hour to be taken as such. .
It is said that the prohibitionists J
worked hard to get the support of
Henry Ford for their national ticket, J
and were apparently encouraged, when, i
to their dismay, President Wilson went 1
out and had luncheon with Mr. Ford, 1
followed by a long talk, since which
time Mr. Ford has been working for <
Wilson. The story goes on to say that <
Treasurer Morgenthau of the demo- !
I cratic national committee, found a very !
fat check in his mail running up into <
the hundreds of thousands. tl
At any rate it is a fact that the demo!
cratic western management is not doing
much work in Michigan, while the
republicans have found it necessary to
send Col. Roosevelt into the state to stir
up his followers again.
There is said to be some concern 1
among woman suffrage leaders of the 1
iteration and reiteration of the state- 1
ment that the women's vote of all the 1
suffrage states is going to Wilson on 1
the sentimental ground that he kept 1
the country out of war. Some brutal I
comments have been made upon this
situation, to the effect that, if the woman
voters are to be swept off their feet
by a sentimental phrase, the men who
; voted against suffrage in Massachusetts,
! New York and Pennsylvania a year ago '
may feel justified in their course in re'
fusing the vote to women, and that if
j the returns show the claim to be well
founded, woman suffrage will have a
setback in the states where the question
is yet pending.
Attitude of Chicago Herold.
There has been much speculation as
to the attitude in this campaign of one
of Chicago's great newspapers, the Herald.
It has been, to say the least, lukewarm
toward the republican ticket thus
far. The Herald commented upon the
pending eight-hour issue today as follows:
"The reply of Mr. Hughes to 'President
Wilson emphasizes the fact that
the eight-hour day law is not only an
issue of the campaign, but even two
issues.
"There Is the Hughes eight-hour day
issue of legislation under duress, rejection
of arbitration and no eight-hour
day established as a matter of fact by
i the Adamson law.
j "There is the Wilson eight-hour day
issue of an eight-hour day. a practical
settlement of a difficult question, thus
saving the country from a railroad
strike, and a step in the direction of
broader social justice.
"Voters can take their choice of these
two issues. They can grow red with indignation
with Mr. Hughes over the way
the legislative body has been dictated
*o, or they can thrill with President
Wilson at the ld?*a of carrying into effect
the judgment of society as to the
hours Of labor.
"In case neither of these eight-hour-law
issues stilts them, a third can readily be
found from the abundant material on
the subject which Is lying around."
Norwegian Steamer Keported Sunk.
LONDON. September 27.?The Norwegian
steamer Bufjord has been sunk,
according to s Lloyds dispatch from
Barcelona. Ths crew waa landed. The
BafJoVd measured l,4S? tone net.
125f6000NSTRIKE7
SAY I*UNIONS
Little Evidence, However, of
General Walk-Out in New
York City.
22 BODIES HAVE FAILED
TO RESPOND TO CALL
Estimates of Number Quitting Work
Complicated Owing to Holiday
of Jewish Workers.
NEW YORK, September 27.?
Union workers to the number of
125.600 went on strike today in
sympathy with the. striking traction
employes, according to figures
given out at a meeting of
representatives of labor unions.
Although labor leaders claimed
that 125,600 workers had responded
to the call, there was
little evidence that a strike was
in progress.
These were the figures reported to the
meeting by the union delegates, according
to Ernest Bohm. state organizer of
the American Federation of Labor. The
trades which have responded to the
strike call, he said, are the United
Garment Workers, six building trades
unions, the paperhangers, painters,
house wreckers and a number of small
organizations. Bohm declared that 263,000
more would go out tomorrow.
Private canvassers among the ^labor
unions reported that at least twenty-two
unions had failed to respond to strike
calls this forenoon. . The only report received
at police headquarters was that
250 members of the painters' union had
refused to report for work.
At one time it was predicted that upward
of 600,000 trade unionists would stop
work. Attempts to estimate the number
of strikers were complicated by the fact
that thousands of Jewish workers will
remain idle over Thursday and Friday in
celebration of the beginning of the Jewish
New Year. Of those expected to
strike 143,000 are members affiliated with
the United Hebrew Trades who stop work
eacn year ai mis nine iui me jewisn
holidays.
Those Agreeing: to Strike.
Among: the org-anizations which have
voted to strike today, according to
those directing the movement, are:
Ladles* garment workers, 95,000; clothing
workers, 40,000; painters and decorators,
15,000; furHertr, *15,000; tinsmiths,
10,000; butcher*; 10,000; stationary
firemen, 2,500; paper box makers,
7,000; milliners, 6,000; jewelry workers,
3,000, and brewery workers, 8,000.
Total, 209,500.
The leaders asserted that in addition
to those to quit work today they would
be able to call out 100,000 more daily
for the next two or three days.
At the last moment it became known
that T. V. O'Connor, national president
Df the longshoremen's union, had decided
not to call out the 45,000 members
of that organization today. It was
stated there was serious doubt whether
he would ask them to take part in the
strike at any time.
The joint labor conference committee,
Jirecting the strike, met this morning
to hear the reports of the unions whose
members had responded to the strike
jail.
Twelve thousand teamsters also were
reported ready to quit work tomorrow
ar Friday. A meeting of the executive
council of the building trades was
called for tomorrow to take final action,
ifter the business agents in Manhattan
md the Bronx had voted for the strike.
After a meeting of the joint labor
conference committee strikers were
supplied with pamphlets for distribution
throughout the city, in which attacks
were made on the so-called Morgan
and Rockefeller interests.
"Rockefeller, Morgan and their asso
elates control the^ transit of the city
:>f New York," the pamphlets read, "and
they also control the railroads, mines,
Industries and public utilities through[>ut
the country, as well as most of the
banks and nearly all the money."
Proposed Arbitration Act.
Members of the state legislature from
this city, who called on Gov. Whitman
and urged him to convene the senate
md assembly in an extraordinary session
to deal with the strike situation,
submitted a draft of a proposed arbitration
act. The governor, although
opposed to calling the legislature together
at this time, studied the proposed
law carefully and said he believed
there was "room" for it on the
statute books.
The act outlined would provide a fine
of $5,000 and revocation of the license
of a corporation that breaks an "hgreement
to arbitrate and a fine against
the union breaking such agreement
where the public interest is affected or
likely to be affected. Gov. Whitman,
it was said, promised to confer with
the public service commission concerning
the proposed measure.
Strike Convention Held.
The general strike convention attended
by representatives from the international
unions having headquarters
in this city was called to order here today
after considerable delay, by Hugh
Frayne, state organizer of the Ameri- j
can Federation of Labor. None of the
leaders would make a'statement as to I
what his own union had done or would
do. Mr. Frayne said he was satisfied
with the situation, but declined to answer
when asked what the situation i
ttan
Among the unions which failed to go
out today was the brewery workers,
numbering 6,000, but their leaders de- ,
clared they would strike tomorrow.
74 KILLED BY ZEPPELINS.
Bevised Li?t of Casualties in Two
Air Baids on England.
LONDON, September 27.?An ofliclal
statement gives the following revised
list of casualties as a result of the last
two Zeppelin raids on England:
Sunday night's raid?Killed, 23 men, j
12 women, 3 children, total, 38; injured,
56 men, 43 women, 26 children, total,
125.
Monday night's raid?Killed, 36; Injured,
27.
BERLIN, September 27, by wireless
to Sayvllle.?The British naval base of
Portsmouth and military establishments
near the mouth of the Thames and at
North Shields, Lincoln and Derby were
attacked by the Zeppelins which raided
England Mondliy night, the admiralty
announ^4.toddy. *
,
I
_ 3>owh ; | ; -
GERMAN RESIST/
IS PARIS AI^
Capture of Combles
to Open Way f
Peronne an
PARIS, September 27.?The c
booty, completes whaf is regardei
of the most brilliantly executed
paign. The whole front of attack
? 1 i i e j :r l.
nas Deen pusneu iorwaru unnurmr
Military observers declare thai
that the allies are incontestably m<#
Germans TJse Fresh Troops,
j Since September 15 the Germans had
brought up three fresh divisions
against the French front, and the same
number against the British. On the
20th they made a desperate effort
to retake Bouchavesnes. Not only did
they fail, but five days later the allies,
resuming the offensive, hurled back
their lines in spite of the fact that considerable
advantages of terrain were
considered to be with the Germans.
The progress made by the French beyond
Bouchavesnes is regarded here as
one of the most surprising results of the
operations. French officers declare that
this success demonstrated the growing
power of the French offensive^and the
failing resistance oY the Germans. The
hills which surround this village were
swept on three sides by all the German
artillery from St. Pierre Vaast wood in
the north to Mount St. Quentin in the
south.
Paves Way for Advance.
Nevertheless they were stormed, and
the capture of Hill 130, which threatens
directly Allaines, paves the way for a
vigorous enveloping movement around
Mount St. Quentin and Peronne. The
newspapers compare the present offensive
with the bloody and futile attempts
of the French to break through
the German lines in Artois and Champagne
last year, and express the greatest
optimism over the present situation.
Ail of the military writers in the
newspapers agree that the results of
Monday's and Tuesday's fighting -are
among the most important gained in
I the whole series of battles on the Somme
front. They point out that the re[cent
successes have considerable tactiI
cal value and that generally the situation
has been sensibly modified, a consequence
which they say will soon be
j evident.
The phrase in the official statement
from Berlin, "we are obliged to admit
the success obtained by our adversaries,"
is interpreted by many newspapers
as a sign that the Germans
know that the allies are getting the
upper hand, and are trying to explain
it by declaring that the whole resources
of the world are being used
against them. The papers exultantly
sum up the results to date of the great
offensive as forty-four villages and 190
square miles of territory conquered and
60,000 prisoners taken.
Conquest Since July 1.
A semi-official account of the battle
of the Somme from its beginning (July
1), appearing in the Bulletin Des
Armees, says that the French have con- |
BRITISH ANETFRJ
EAGER TO CON:
BRITISH FRONT IN FRANCE. September
26, via London, September 27.?
The capture of Combles was one of the
most picturesque Incidents in the whole
course of the great Somme offensive.
It marked the opening of today's forward
surge of the British and French
forces, which reached its climax In the
capture of Gueudecourt and Thiepval.
All night long bitter lighting had been
In progress at various points on the
~~~~~ _ -\
SAFETY FIRST.
INCE BROKEN
JD LONDON VIEW
and Tbiepval Held
or Advance on
d Bapaume.
apture of Combles, with its great
i by military experts here as one
operations of the summer camfrom
Martinpuich to the Somme
y for more than a mile.
: the fullness of the success proves
isters of the situation.
1t/t ?
xov square Kiiomeiers (at>oul
(seventy square miles) of territory
I captured 30,000 unwounded prisoners
| removed 4,503 wounded and taken 144
cannon, most of them of heavy caliber
500 machine puns and other material.
It is pointed out that the entente allies
have broken the spirit of the Germans
at Verdun, definitely deprived the
enemy of an initiative and turned it in
their own favor. Since the opening ol
the battle, the account says, the Germans
have thrown into the battle sixty-seven
new divisions and seventeen battalions,
of which thirty-four divisions were on th
English front and thirty-three divisions
with the seventeen battalions were on
the French front.
Thiepvars Capture a Surprise.
LONDON, September 27.?The capture
of Thiepval by the British and of Comblea
by the combined Anglo-French forces is
regarded here as the most important success
on the western front since the opening
of the grand offensive.
The fall of the stronghold of Combles
was^xpected. For weeks it had been in
process of encirclement by the British on
the-oorth and west, and by the French on
the south and east. But the capture of
Thiepval, which was announced too late
for comment in the moriting papers, has
proved a genuine surprise, because it has
been k stumbling block in the advance
of the British left almost since the beginning
of the offensive July 1, when a
check at Gommecourt was suffered.
Thiepval's fall gives to the AngloFrench
forces the whole line of low
hills which slope to the plain upon
which the town of Bapaume makes the
next fortified center.
Successes at Small Cost.
The semi-official accounts of tjie capture
of Combles speak of the large
number of the garrison and the great
quantity of warlike stores taken.
Reuter's official correspondent says:
"This great success was won at very
small cost, thanks, in part, to the
excellence bf the artillery and in part
to a real collapse of, the German defense.
fV
"Reference also is made to the apparent
weakened morale of the German
troops, who are declared in some
instances to have fled from their
trenches, throwing away their rifles."
The Times attaches significance to
the "breakdown of the German defense,
confessed in their account of the
Combles battle," and says it means the
German general staff is apologizing
for the crushing defeat.
The Daily Mail declares that the Anglo-French
forces have "accomplished
one of the supreme feats of the war
in capturing Combles, which the Ger
mans iwu years ago selected as one
of their pivots, and fortified it with
every art known to man."
SNCH SOLDIERS
riNUE BIG DRIVE
front, and with dawn the battle broadened
to include the whole British left.
Combles fell as the sun rose on a perfect
summer day. Sitting in the midst
of a heap of hills, the town was isolated
yesterday by the seizing of the ground
on either side by the French and British.
In the early hours of the morning
the British took an orchard in the
northern outskirts and then, after a
heavy preliminary shelling, they
charged the trenc&s on the edge of
3ase. ball game:
?? ?
boaf\e> of tf^ade.
?-v??
^national pne-ss
^ benefit of families of
^ the national quardsmen
I
the villas. The trenches were empt3
when (hey reached them. At the same
time t|ie French, dashing forward or
r the other side of the village, pushec
victoriously forward into the heart ol
the viljage. In the main street the soldiers
of the two nations met and joyously
shook hands, calling out to eacl
I other, "Parlez vous" and "How d'ye do.'
Defense Wyk at End.
> Combles had a labyrinth of dugouti
and well fortified cellars, but at th<
last practically no defense was made
Those Germans who had not managec
to escape when the town was hopelessly
surrounded were taken prisoner
One lot of Germans who 'were en,
deavoring to find a way through the
encircling allied infantry walked intc
the British skirmishing line. The cellars
and dugouts of the village wert
I full of wounded, who found securitj
there from the furious fighting on the
slopes and ridges.
Having cleared Combles of any straj
? Germans, the British and French move<5
on\ side by side to further attacks.
One of the most striking features
of the flehtlnir Inst nlo-ht an<J ??'<>*
1 was the surprisingly slight resistance
, offered at Morval and Combles by the
Gernlans, according to all reports
' made by the British officers. The Ger^
mans made the usual counter attacks
, against the British new positions las!
night, but the reports of the allied officers
to headquarters agree that they
lacked spirit. Some German trenches
| take**, yesterday were lightly occupied
' or not at all. In other instances the
I allied commanders stated that considerable
bodies of Germans threw down
1 their rifles promptly as soon as th*
1 attackers approached their trenches
although it was known that they had
orders to stand to the last. Batches
' of prisoners have been coming in from
all parts of the front throughout the
day.
Anxious to Save Ghins.
In their attack yesterday the British
* found the strongest defense made in
front of Gueudecourt. There, the Germans
used their machine guns with the
tenacity and unyielding courage which
has hitherto characterized them. The
British resumed the attacks today and
tonight all the village is in their possession.
Both today and yesterday the
Germans showed an inclination to withdraw
their guns immediately they were
in any danger, evidently desiring to
take no risk of losing any of their artillery.
This sometimes leaves their
troops in the front line unprotected
by cannon fire and may account for the
number of surrenders.
In the meantime the British continue
to pound the whole line with their
seemingly inexhaustible supply of
shells, leaving the Germans in doubt
as to what sector will be the next to
be attacked by the infantry. The first
warning that the Germans have that
the British seek to gain a certain frontage
is a sudden increase of gunfire in
that sector to a tornado under which
it does not seem possible that a mouse
could escape alive. Usually this tornado
is brief compared to the old fashion
of artillery preparation, while it
lasts long enough to enable the British
infantry to rush from their lines to the
German trenches while all the German
machine guns and rifle fire are stilled.
It is amazing how the co-operation of
infantry and artillery has improved by
the battle practice of the offensive.
UU AUiC|>>ai.
About midday today the British left
had its turn in the region of Thiepval,
at the other extreme of the battle
front from Combles. Here the fighting
line joins the old German front .trench
line, and the Germans, in their dugouts
and galleries, have fought with
the skill and stubbornness which characterizes
them in this kind of warfare.
"They stick like glue to those
dugouts," said one British soldier, "because
they know that once they are
pushed back we do not give them time
to dig any more."
A blackish heap of dirt on the crest
of a ridge is all that remains of
Thiepval. On tjhe top of that?heap there
still rise a few black sticks, tree trunks
slivered and hewn by.shell fire which
have escaped being downed by a dl(Continued
on Fourteenth Page.)
SCHOOL
CHILDREN
Save every old newspaper
you can find for the
playground fund. - .
BULGARIANS CLAIM
SERBSAREBEATEN
Sofia Reports Enemy in Retreat
Along the Entire Mace
dpnian Front.
PARIS STATEMENT TELLS
OF REPULSE OF BULGARS
Reports Agree There Is Comparativ<
Quiet in Transylvania and
the Dobrudja.
SOFIA, September 27, via Lon
don, 12:15 p.m.?After ten days o
heavy fighting between Serbiai
and Bulgarian troops on the west
ern end of the Macedonian fron
the Bulgarians forced back theii
opponents, compelling them to re
treat along the whole front, it wai
announced officially today.
Three successive French at
tacks near Florin^ were repulsed
The French are said to have suf
fered1 great losses.
Surprise Attack on French.
The announcement follows:
"On the Stara Neredska ridge one o:
our columns made a surprise attack ii
the direction of the village of Bresnica ot
a French battalion of Regiment 242. Oui
troops dispersed the French battalion anc
returned with several dozen prisoners, on<
machine gun and some army equipment.
"At the point of bayonet we capturec
enemy trenches in the village of Orownic
where we found thirty of the enemy'!
dead. Near the villages of Pisoderi ant
Armensko we made counter attacks 01
three enemy battalions, which retreatet
in disorder, leaving behind many dead 01
wounded.
"East of Fiorina we repulsed thre<
successive French attacks. The enem;
suffered great losses and retreated.
Victory After Ten D^ys.
1 "After ten days of continual fighting
r in which time the entire Drina divisioi
. of the Serbian army undertook the mos
1 bitter attacks against Kaimakcalai
height, our troops attacked the enem:
with great dash and forced him to re
treat along the whole front. The fight
ing is proceeding with great succes
for us.
"In the Mogienica valley the artiUer
fighting continues. We ' silenced nu
merous enemy batteries. On the Besaic
i height quiet prevails. On the Strum;
? front there was listless artillery firing
Vigorous movements of cruisers off th.
Aegean coast were observed.
I "Rumanian front?All is quiet on th<
. Danube. The situation in Dobrudja ii
unchanged. Our troops have consoli
dated their positions, un ine eiacK sej
coast quiet prevails."
> Repulse of Bulgers Claimed.
; PARIS, September 27.?The Serbian*
r have repulsed three violent Bulgariar
5 attacks on Kaimakcalan height, according
to an official statement issuec
I by the war office dealing with the
Saloniki front.
' An official statement issued ir
r Bucharest Monday says a lull has sel
! in on the Dobrudja front along the lim
f between the Danube and the Black sea,
5 at which the reinforced Russian anc
Rumanian armies checked the Germar
1 and Bulgarian invasion. In Transyl
vania also comparative calm prevails,
; WANTS REWARD FOE PRISONED
Sheriff Will Not Otherwise Surrender
Man Accused of Murder.
NASHVILLE, Tenn., September 27.?
i Sheriff G. C. Puckett of Dekalb county
who, Monday, captured David D. Overton,
the long-missing Huntsville, Ala.
politician, charged with the murder ol
Judge W. T. Lawler, said this morning
that be would not turn the prisonei
over to the Huntsville officers unless
the reward was paid him.
Overton spent the night in jail here
Six or seven men, representing themselves
as deputy sheriffs from Huntsville,
visited the jail at 2 o'clock this
morning and asked to see Overton.
They were refused admittance. The
jailer had been ordered to guard hi?
prisoner carefully.
The visitors declared they had just
arrived in Nashville in an automobile.
VICE ADMIRAL PALAU DEAD.
Commanded Spanish Cruiser Marie
Therese at Battle of Santiago.
PARIS, September 27.?The death is
announced in a dispatch" from Madrid
. of Vice Admiral Concasy Palau, who
was the arbitrator appointed by King
Alfonso of Spain in connection with
the settlement of disputes between
Pananfa and the United States over
land in the Canal Zone. He recently
returned to Madrid from Panama and
had intended to resume his duties in
Panama in January.
Admiral Palau was minister of marine
in the Morety Prendersrast cabinet
in 1906. He was a captain in the Spanish-American
war and bore a prominent
part in the fighting: at Santiago, in
which he was in command of the
cruiser Marie Therese.
BANKERS TO FIND EASY WAY.
London Agents to Aid in Alleviating
Censorship and Blacklist.
NEW YORK, September 27.?Agents of
American banks 'in London Arill be appointed
members of a committee with
headquarters in that city to co-operate
wit^i a committee of American bankers
in an attempt to alleviate the British censorship
of American mail and the British
blacklist, says A. Barton Hepburn.
Mr. Hepburn acted as host at the luncheon
and conference here of New York
bankers with Sir Richard Crawford, trade
representative-mf the British embassy at
Washington.
The London committee. Mr. Hepburn
says, will co-ojerate with the British
censor and the government officials In an
effort to curtail the delay now caused by
the censoring of American business and
banking mail. Banks which do a large
foreign exchange business will be represented
on the London committee.
Neither this committee nor the proposed
committee of New York banketrifttaLS yet
been chosen.
NO REST ALLOWED
I HARD-HIT GERMANS
Al fUlPTUr MMIUir
HLunu inLouniHiL
, T
Capture of Combles and Thiepval
Followed by New
Allied Thrusts.
>
AIM BLOW AT CHAULNES;
5 MAY ENCIRCLE PERONNE
Entente Experts Expect Further Inroads
on Territory Held by
f the Enemy.
1
- 60,000 PRISONERS IN DRIVE
t
r Between 3,000 and 4,000 Reported
Taken by the British Alone
; Monday and Tuesday.
^
BERLIN, September 27,
by wireless to Sayville,
N. Y.?After unusually severe
fighting on the Somme
front in which the entente
r allies suffered heavy losses
\ they captured Thiepval and
r gamed ground on both sides
I of Courcelette, the war office
| announced today. Attacks
further to the east were re1
pulsed by the Germans.
1
J LONDON, September 27, 2:30
p.m.?No rest is being given the
' Germans by the victorious
Franco-British forces on the
Somme front,
i The British capture of the long1
resisting Thiepval strongfold, foly
lowing closely and unexpectedly
- upon'the capture of Combles by
s the combined allied forces, was
r itselt lollowe4 up last night by a
I new stroke on the part of the
* French south of the Somme
e where they drove out from Ver|
mandovillers and captured a
- strongly fortified wood east of the
town. .
Drive Aimed at Chaulnes.
| Apparently this new drive is aimed
at Chaulnes, which bears to the
I southern end of the Somme line some5
what the relation that Combles did to
t the northern sector. The beginning of
t a French effort to pocket this other
German stronghold was apparent some
j time ago, and a further move such as
that reported today in the drive east
from Vermandovillers to a point two
miles almost directly south of Chaul'
nes has not been unexpected.
The French lines already have been
pushed in well south of the town.
Meanwhile the military importance or"
the gains from Thiepval to the Somme
scored in the smashing offensive of the
' present week are expected by military
observers/ the entente capitals to be
, made manifest by speedy further inf
roads upmi Gertnan-held territory.
British in New Advance.
5 The British again advanced last night,
the war office anounced today. The
greatest succes was won in the direction
of Eaucourt L'Abbaye.
The statement follows:
( "Our troops made progress during the
night, particularly in the direction of
> Eaucourt L'Abbaye.
' "Successful raids were carried out by
; us opposite Beaumont and Hamel and
, in the neighborhood of Loos. Three^
hc^stile aeroplanes were destroyed In
air fighting on Monday, and six others
were driven down damaged."
Plan to Encircle Peronne.
The French advance beyond Bouchavesones,
is pointed to as directly threatening
Allaines two miles north of Peronne.
and preparing the way for an encircling
movement intended to drive the
Germans out of Peronne itself.
Belated reports from the British front
I todav announce the capture of lwtw^n
3,000 and 4,<100 Germans by Gen. Haig*s
forces in the fighting Monday and Tuesday.
The reported captures by the
French bring this total up to more than
6,000. Unofficial figures show the aggregate
number of prisoners taken by the
Anglo-French armies during the Somme
offensive from July 1 to date have been
60,000, with some 190 square miles of
territory and forty-four villages.
Capture of Thiepval by the British
was announced by the war office last
night. In addition to taking the town
the British captured a high ridge to
the east of it and a strongly fortified
redoubt. The announcement said:
"On our left we captured Thiepval
and the high ridge east of it. including
the Zollern redoubt. This ridge was
very strongly fortified with an elaborate
system of heavily wired trenches
and was defended with desperation.
"The successes gained during the last
two days may be regarded as of very
considerable importance."
French Take Fortified Wood.
PARIS, September 87.?A brilliant
French attack east of Vermandovlllers
has succeeded in capturing a stronglyfortified
wood, according to an official
statement Issued by the war office today.
Last night's official statement announced
that the town of Combles was
entirely in Anglo-French hands. ' y
A vast stock of munitions and provisions
was captured In Combles. the
statement said, and the town was found
filled with German dead, fifteen here
along the front In Prance tbfri had
'been Intermittent ?awnoiisdla?F\
