Tait morw an NGT"
it is 3nvited to W Ts oE-e and is a regu- D. o. WED DAY, S P E B 27 191 .n.
far breakfst-turn. visitor. ton The Herald is as regular a pant of
NOL3. WAIMWREWAHNTN1)C.tDSDAY. SEPTEMBER 27. 1916. ONE CENfT.
COMBLES FALLS;
NOW A SHAMBLES
Iundreds of Dead Litter
Streets After Alied Victory.
(By the lternatioaal News Service.)
London, Sept. 26.-The French and
British continued their latest and great
et stroke on the Somme today, winning
two of the rost decisive succeshe. vet
attained on this frout. Combles and
Thiapval. for which they have been tig;ht
ig fa- more than two months, tonight
are in their hands, together witn the
whole powerfully organized field systen'
in the Thiepval sector and further strong
sections of the German third line to the
south and gst. including the village of
Guedecourt. The French left and '3rit
ish right wings established contact at
Combles, flattening out the German
salient, while farther ilong their lines th
French captured Fregecourt and the
greater part of a strongly organized
wood 'we st of the St. Vaast forest.
The allied army has taken" more than
2,700 prisoners in the two days of fight
ing. has registered a uniform gain of
more than a mile along the greater part
of a fourteen-mile front and has infilited
what are described as colossal losses on
the Germans.
Berlin admits an extensive allied ad
vance. hut. says the official statement
issued at grand headquarters, "before all
we must think of our heroic troops who
faced the united Anglo-French principal
forces and the massed employment of
material of the whole world's war In
dustry prepared during many months."
t'ombl,, is a city of bodies. Where once
a thiving town there were only dead
men and some -9 wounded and aban
doned German, when the British took
posessioti of ths ruins.
The last twer t-four hours have seen
fu-ther Iep-rate ir fighting over the
western front. The French air corps
alore 'u, enael in forty-seven battles,
according to an official statement issued
by the Fren' A war offlee.
As a result rve German aeroplanes
were dastro ed and three were forced to
descend i a b.viily damaged condition.
ROMANIANS CAPTURE
CARPATHIAN PASSES
Teutons Forced to Fall Back to Save
Armies.
(By the International News Servie,)
London. Sept. 26.-The Roumanian army
operating In Transylvania has recaptur
ed the Vulcan and Szurduk passes of the
Carpathians, two of the leading gateways
from Roumania into Austria.
Beth Berlin and Vien admit today
this sgna n esuccess. In violent fighting,
the Roumanians occupied the heights
commanding the passe, and the Teutons,
threatened with being encircled, fell back
En the night, leaving the passes in Rou
%nanian possession.
From the Lemberg sector to the iron
gates an almost continuous battle Is in
progress. Only at the passes named
have the last twenty-four hours brought
Important changes. The German war
office reports that the Russians have
continued their assaalts on Manajow,
where s!x successive charges failed to
shake the Teutonic resistance.
In the Ludowa sector to the south
the Rusan offensive Is equally per
sistent. but is thus far unsuccessful.
VILLA REPORTED NEAR
PERSHING OUTPOSTS
tBy the Internatioaal News Service.)
El Paso Tex. Sept. 26.-Dispatches
Peach:ng Juarez this afternoon from
Casas Grandes stated that Villa's army
is approa-hing the outposts of the Persh
ing extelition near El Valle. Since last
Friday., the Villistas have been marching
northward from Las Est-obas and Santa
Ysobel. according to these advices.
These reoorts are at variance with an
earlier dispatch from Gen. Pershing's
headqiarters, reporting Villa attempting
to rehabilitate his force In the vicinity
of Rubio.
LONDON TO TAKE HOLIDAY.
Stock Exchange Will Be Closed for
Next Five Saturdays.
London. Sept. 26.-Announcement was
rade on the stock exchange by the stock
exchange committee today that there will
be no session of the exchange on the next
five Saturdays. Thus the exchange will
not be opeied for business on Saturdays
until November. Recently the committee
decided to disnotinue holidays on Satur
days, but a petition favoring no session
on Saturdays received strong support.
FISHING PARTY MIMING.
Coast Guard Cutter Asked to Hut
for New Bedford Boat.
New Eedford. Mass., Sept. 20-Search
for a fishing party of nine 67.headed
by W. A. Ashworth, superintendent of
tbe Whitman Mill. was begun by the po
lice last night. and requests were made
for the assistance of the coast guard cut
ter Acushnet and various coast guard
statione in Buzzard's Bay and Vineyard
Sound.
MUTCH HINGES ON PIE.
Notorman Masy Have Been Eating
One at Timse of Crash.
New York. Sept, 26.-The question
whether the motorman of a subway ex
press train was eating a piece of pie
when his train crashed into a dead train
stalled at the Two Hundred and Seventh
street station late yesterday safternoon,
injuring thirteen persors, one very seri
ously, figufres importantly in investiga
tions begun last night by t'he polIce and
the Public Service Commission.
Pope Pleads for Peace.
Romne. Sept. 26.-The Messagaro states
that Pope Benedict XV has sent an au
tograph letter to Emperor Francis Joseph
of Austria-Hungary. announcing the
nomination of a new papal nuncia to VI
ena and at the same time eloquently
pleading for peace.
Kills Self in Hotel.
Chsicago, Sept. 26.-A man, registered as
Allen . Tomnlinson. president of the Tomn
uion Chair Manufacturing Company. of
High Point, N. C., shot and killed him
self in a room in the Brevoort Hotel hana
kbata.
GREECE NEAR-WAR
Cabinet Now Debating Ques
tion of Her Intention.
(By the Interuatieual News Servlee.)
London. Sept. 26.-A fateful cabinet
conference is in session tonight in Ath
ens. Upon it is believed to hang Greece's
dI ciston In the war.
The result of the deliberations probably
.ill not be known for some hours but
already rumors are In circulation in Ath
ens that the ministers are about to join
the fortunes of Greece with thow of the
entente. At the very least the r-. :t will
b- a complete surrender to the -lenvoid.
.of the Franco-British represenstives at
the Greek capital.
The Greek government will clean house
of all pro-German sympathizers or pro
neutralists and a cabinet completely in
sympathy with the allies will be formed.
This decision is expected to lead to the
removal of Minieter of the Interior
Roufas and Minister of Justice Vokoto
poulos from their portfolios.
At the time the ministers assembled it
became known here in a delayed dIls
patch that Greece has already offered to
take up arms for the entente provided a
sufficient loan to equip and mobilize her
army is extended. There were even re
ports in circulation here that Greece
may declare war on the central empires
and their allies before the passing of
another day.
Meanwhile dispatches report the arrival
of former Premier Venizelos at Sudabay
on the north coast of Crete. le is now
deinitely identified with the revolution
which is sweeping that island and Greek
Macedonia. He left behind him a state
ment that the movement Is purely na
tional and not designed to overthrow the
royal government, but instead to organ
ize a defense for Greek Macedonia where
the Bulgarian incursions have aroused
the nation.
MILKMEN MAY ERECT
CO-OPERATIVE DAIRY
Will Push Project for District if Mu
nicipal Plant Plans Fail.
Unless a municipal dairy is esiabli.,h'd
in Washington without undue delay, the
Maryland and Virginia produ-crs who
supply the local demand will drop the
whole project, so far as the municipal
authorities are concerned, and build a
distribution depot of their own, to be
conducted on a co-operative basis.
This decision was reached at a meeting
held yesterday In the Munsey Building
by the executive committee of the Mary
land and Virginia Milk Producers' Asso
ciation. which elected Y. E. Booker busi
ness manager.
Mr. Booker will open an office in the
Munsey Bdlding and enter upon his
duties by perfecting the organzaton of
the affiliated producers. Members from
the seven Virginia and four Maryland
counties represented were delegated b-,
the executive committee to strengthen and
build up their respective local organiza
tions and to encourage interest in the
movement on the part of individual pro
ducers.
Literature dealing with the co-onera
tive alms of the association will be placed
at the disposal of these men and of the
committee of reven named at a recent
meeting.
The plan to be followed by the milk
producers parallels that of the California
Fruit Growers' Exchange, the greatest
co-operative organization in tbe world,
which last year transacted business to
the amount of 8O.000.000.
In addition to establishing a co-oaer
ative distribution system. the association
contemplates the purchase by carloa( s of
feed, fertilizers. milk cans and standsrd
ized equipment of all kinds, to be allotted
as needed in the different communities.
It is proposed also to arrange for the
,xchange of breeding animals, particu
larly blooded bulls.
ENTOMBED ITALIANS
DOOMED BY LEADERS
fly the International News Service.)
Vienna. Sept. 26.-The Italians have re
fused the Austrian offer of an armistire
to rescue the Italian soldiers who were
buried under tons of rock and earth
when the peak of Monte Cimone was dy
namited by the Austrian s. Calls for
help from the entombed soldiers had
been heard and the Austrian commander
offered a local armistice so that they
could be rescued.
An official statement issued by the war
ofice today announce-, that the Italian
commander refused to meet the Aus
trians in the spirit of humanity which
actuated their offer. The battle for the
possession of Cimone's slopes is continu
Ing fiercely. the Italian tire covering the
ground above their buried comrades.
NXAR DEATH ON MICHIGAN.
J. H. Hammond, Jr., and 11 Others
Narrowly Escape Explosion.
Philadelphia, Sept. 26.-Petty officers
and members of the crew of the battle
ship Michigan declarcd John Hays Ham
mond. Jr.. inventor of the unmanned wire
less boat: Capt. C. D. Brittain and ten
of the officers of the ship narrowly es
caped death or Injury when the 12-inch
gun of No. 2 turret was blown to pieces
in gun practice September M0.
According to members of the crew, a
huge fragment cf the gun carried away
a section of the bridge close to the spot
where Mr. Hammond and the officers
wiere standing.
TROPHY'S FALL FATAL.
Moose -Head Hit Bank President
and Caused His Death.
Wilmingtorn, Del.. Sept, 26.-Ceorge W.
Chambers. president of the Central Nja
tional Bank and bead of George W.
Chambers & Co.. leather *manufactures,
died yesterday at his home as the result
of a peculIar accident three weeks ago,
He was walking through the hall of hIs
home when an ornamental moose head
fell from the wall and struck hIm on the
head.
BAREFO0T GIELS ON HTKE.
Millionaires' Daug-hters Try "Blaek
To-Nature" Utunt.
Boston, Sept. 26.-Barefooted and clad
only In light summer dresses, nve girls,
all daughters of prominent milioa.,
walked as a "back-to-nature" experi
nment from South Woodstock, Conn., to
Sharon. Mass., a distance of nearly 100
miles. The hike took place under the di
rection of Florence Flemmisg Noyes,
widely known exponent of aesthetic dano
GERMAN PRINCE
WOULD END WAR
Alexander, of Hohenlohe, Says
Pope and Wilson Can Do It.
By WILLIAM BAYARD HALE.
(Internatieal News Service.)
Berlin, Sept. 26 (via Copenhamen).
Alexander, Prince of Hoheniohe, writing
from Switzerland, says:
"An attempt to Stop the murdering of
nations, which is constantly assuming
greater dimensions, almost seems like
standing on a railroad track for the -ur- I
pose of halting an on-speeding train, yet
we must not stop speaking of this tilug,
even at the, expense of being ridiculed
by him who stands idly by and look% on,
bereft of heart and conscience, while the
systematic preparation for European suli
cide goes on.
'I will be told, 'you were right. but is
I the means available to stop the war
r.ow that the extensive military opera-I
tions recently begun en all fronts have
as yet failed to produce a decisive ad
vantage? A war can only end when one
or the other party has been d.flnitely
conquered. There is no evidence of this
so far. No party to the struggle would
be amenable to the proposition --f inter
vention by a third party.'
"To all this I reply: Now Is the very
moment to intervene. Every day and
hour will help to save thousands of young.
sturdy, promising lives. Are not the lives
of hundreds of thousands worth our
breaking for all time the old-fashioned
etiquette which demands one of the com
batants be disposed of before the diplo
matiets are permitted to put a final end
to the struggle? Any peace concluded
.today between the warring powers would
be an honorable peace, for have not each
and all in the course of the war reaped
honors and glories alike sufflicient? Have
,not all the armies fought valiantly and
proved heroism, tenacity and persever
ance, the like'of which history knows
not? Can their glory be enhanced, or
peace made more honorably by further
millions killed, scores of villages and
hamlets levelled, fertile lands turned
desert where no blade of grass will spring
forward for decades and the coming gen
erations with the cost of this war and
we being called on to witness the bank
(CONTINUED ON 'AGE TWO.)
74 KILLED, 152 HURT
IN ZEPPELIN ATTACKS
British War Office Says Damage Was
Slight in Air Raids.
(By the latermatIenal News Service.)
London, Sept. 2.-Seventy-four per
sons were killed and 152 wounded in the!
Zeppelin raids over England on Satur
day and Monday nignts. according to a
revised casualty list issued by the war
office this afternoon. The damage vas
slight.
The Zeppelins brought down during the
first raid were the L-32 and L-33, one be
ing shot down by an aviator and the eth
er by high angle fire. Both wer! of tne
latest and biggest type.
Thirty-eight were killed and 13 injnred
in Saturday's raid, and 36 were killed and
27 hurt in the second.
The Zeppelins made no effort to attack
London, confining their operations Xo the
industrial centers in northern and mid
land countries. No damage was dona to
munitions factories, the war office stated.
CIGARETTES AND MONEY
IN HER SILKEN HOSE
ecial to The Wshingien Heral.
New York, Sept. 26.-The latest thing in
"lisle banks," or rather in this case a
silk bank, went down Broadway last
night, and everywhere that Mary went a
trail of lambs followed along.
There have been sheer, transparent
hosiery displays on Broadway before, but
this one is still being watched for today.
Inside the right one reposed a package of'
cigarettes, the Egyptian lady on the
cover plainly discernible through the
stocking. And paralleling the cigarettes
on the other limb was a roll of green and
yellow bills, even the figures denoting
their denomination being visible.
STEAMSIP LINE SOLD.
Pacific Coast Fleet Brings $10,000,
000, Is Report.
San Francisco, Cal.. Sept. 2-It was
learned authoritatively here that the Pa
cific Steamship Company has completed
negotiations for the transfer of its en
tire fleet, valued at $10,000,000, to the Pa
citie-jlaskan Navigation Company.
Directors of the Paciflo Coast Company
are expected to ratify the transfer at a
directors' meeting tomorrow. The deal
is one of the largest in Pacific shipping
circles in years.
MUSIC COSTS GIRL RATR.
Locks Clipped While Phonograph
Drowns scissors' "Smip."
New York, Sept. 26.-"Squarrwk."1 went
a scratched phonograph record in a music
store at Sixth avenue and Fourteenth
street yesterday afternoon.
"Snip, snip." went the shears of a hair
fiend behind the back of'Mathilda Gottes
field. She swung on her heel and grabbed
a youth who later said he was Walter
Landis. 20. of Lang Island City.
$7,920 INTEREST ON $2,000.
Newark, N. J., Sept. 36-A mortgage
for $2,000 Sixty-six years old, and which
drew in its lifetime $7,9%~ interest, was
canceled here yesterday. It was held
by the Mutual Benefit LUfe Insurance
".ompany; the security was a lot in the
'old burying ground" tract at the north
east corner of Union and Hamilton
streets, owned by John C. Jennings.
It was recorded July I5, lao.
Esankers Plani Thrift Congress.
Kansas City, Sept. 2--A thrift con
gress to be held in New York the latter
part of December to celetbrate the gains
made by savings banks this fear and to
map out a further huge -economy cam
paign to be instituted throlaghout the
United States is pianned by the exec- L
tive comtnittee of the savings bank sec
tion of the American Bakers' Associa
tion in session here,
New Jersey Jurist Dead.
Newark, N, J., Sept. 36.--Vice Chaa
cellor Jasmes E. Howell died here today
after a brief ines. ' M was * yer
raph Tips
Berlitn. Sept. U.-Mr.. James A. Gerard,
wife of the American Ambassador to
Germany, left today for Copenhagen,
where she will fall for America. The
Ambassador accompanied her to Copen
hagen, but it Is not expected he will
take his vacation at this time.
Berlin (via layville). Sept. 2.-Reports
that Germauy has called to the colors
men previously found unfit for military
service and that the military age limit
has been extended to 50 years of age,
were characterised as "absolutely untrue"
today by the semi-official Overseas News
Agency.
Ottawa. Sept. 2G.-Canada's new war
loan has been oversubscribed for the en
tire amount of the loan, according to an
announcement made here today by Sir
Thomas White, minister of finance.
New York, Sept. 2.-New cases and
death. from Infantile paralysis took a
leap upward today over yesterday's iU
ures. Twenty new cases were disncov
ered and eleven deaths were reported.
an increase of six in both Instance.
Petrograd. Sept. 2.-Two German bat
talions that attacked the Russian r-tt
tion north of Lake Kaldytchev were
Iriven off with heavy loss, sasa an offi
cial statement of the war office today.
London. Sept. 26.-The Eighth. Six
teenth and Twenty-fifth reg-nents of
Bulgarian infantry have been wipsed OAt
In fighting with the Serbians in Mace
donia. according to a Corfu dispatch to
the Serbian legation today.
Athens, Sept. 26.-Constantine Moscb
poulo., chief of staff of the Greek army.
has resigned.
Parkersburg, W. Va.. Sept. 26-Mystery
surrounds the finding in the Ohio River
today of the body of John Roller, of 3913
Park avenue, Philadelphla, an inspector
for the Central District Printing and Tel
ephone Company. There was no indica
tion of violence. his jewelry and money!
being found intact.
Amsterdam. Sept. 36-A German mill
tary defense in central Belgium has been
damaged by a raid of British airmen.
msys the Telegraaf today. Bombs were
dropped upon transport trains and the
railway between Brussels and Louvain
was so badly damaged that traffic was
stopped.
Madrid, Sept. 26.-The Norwegian ship
Dlurjord was sunk off the Spanish coast
today. Her crew of twenty-three men
were saved.
New York. Sept. .-A twenty-four inch
-ity water main above the New York
!nd of the Steinway tube at Vanderbilt
Avenue and Forty-second street, burst
,arly today, causing serious congestion of
traffic for hours.
Rome, Sept. 26.-Senor Pina Y. Millet,
Spanish Ambassador to Italy. whoee sym
pathies have been strongly pro-German.
a to be recalled, the Idea Naionale says,
Ind will be suce-eded by an 'anvoy who
awin represent Spain's new attitude toward
the allies.
Philadelphia, Sept. 26.-Lighting a ct
krette at Broad and Oxford streets with
nil-soaked gloves on his hands, John
Matthews was badly burned about the
Arms and hands.
Kansas City. Mo.. Sept. 2.-A thrift
congress, to le held in New York the lat
ter part of December, to celebrate the
gains made by savings banks tnis year
And to map out a further huge economy
rampaign to be instituted throughout the
United States, are being cor.stdered by
the executive committee of the savinga
bank section of the American Bankers'
Assoclation.
Portland, Me., Sept. 26-Investigation
3,f the wreck of the Bay State., of the
Eastern Steamship Corporation. at Cape
Elizabeth, while bound here iromr. Boston
with 1-0 passengers. has been begun.
Winsted, Conn., Sept. 26.-Woodcock.
known to sportsmen as the "bid of mys
tery,' has "put over" another. by not
moulting this reason. It irk the custom of
woodcock when summer wanes to leave
their feeding grounds and disappear for
two weeks, changing their plunmge.
Sportsmen who have gone to the wood
cock covers twice a week all seasor. can
testify that the birds remained there up
t< last week aid were not moulthig.
Berlin, Sept. 26.-Dr. Beldiman, who
was Roumanian minister to Germany un
Ai his country entered the war, has gone
to Copenhagen with his staff to take
ip residence there.
Duluth; Minn., Sept. 26-Bounties ag
gregating $i.000 on L000 wolves were
5arned by hunters in St. Louis County in
:he last fifteen months. Many were de
stroyed with clubac and others were run
lown by dogs.
Boston, Sept. 26.-Another large ship
nent of gold has been brought to port by
the steamship Chepstow Castle, which ar
rived from Cape Town with $2.46.980 in
sovereigns. The gold is consigned to the
Bank of Ottawa.
Albany, N. Y., Sept. 26.-Thomas M. Os
3orne's reform methods in Sing Sing have
iever found favor with the prison of
Icials here. The name of his pet organi
Lation. the Mutual Welfare League, has
:een (unofficially) changed to the "Mu
:ual Farewell League."
Cambridge, Mass.. Sept. 26.-A fresh
Tian class estimated to number more than
'00 was on hand for the opening of the
:wo hundred and eighty-first year at
Harvard University. Students were re
auired to give written information as to
whether they had been exposed to Infah
ile paralysis and precautions were taken
o prevent any possible infection.
Pittsburgh. Sept. 26.-Addressing the
1.000 students of the University of Pitts
nurgh at the opening of the fall term.
Thancellor S. B. McCormick said that
nilitary training would be established at
the university under a regular army of
Icer a. soon as details could be worked
:mt with the War Department.
Atlantie Cly, N. J., Sept. 26.-Although
10,000 persons bathed here daily in the
season there has not been a single drown
irg, life savers say. However, there
were close to 1.000 persons rescued. There
were seven drownings last year and more
than L.000 rescues.
Boston. Sept. 25.-The three-minute em
brace, and stolen kisses, which piayed an
important part In the divorce suit which
Majer Ralph GP. Carpenter, of Wolfeboro,
1.1. H.. and Boston. won from Mrs. Mar
guerite P. Carpenter. were rehearsed at
Ifagnolia before Judge Kival, who heard1
the cane in Concord. N. H. Mrs. Car
penter is trying to disprove the charges.
Montclair, N. J., Sept. 2.-Fireman
Bwinnen, who was organist of Cardinal
ilercier's cathedral In Antwerp, Belgiumn.
wrIll "opten" the new pipe organ of the
rnamaculate Conception Church hee next
rhurman= semwm
HUGHES BITTER
IN HIS ATTACKS
Assails 8-Hour Law and Issues
Defi to Wilson.
By WILLIAM HOSTER.
(Iateranatiemal News Service.)
Cleveland. Ohio, Sept. 26.-Seven thou
sand people in the armory here tonight
cheered Charles E. Hughes' characteriza
tion of the Adamson bill as "the most
shocking thing that has happe..d in my
memory in political life."
Returning to the Mexican attack. Mr.
Hughes challenged the administration to
deny that it had vent the instructions to
John Lind. uncovered the other day at
South Bend, and quoted by Hughes again
tonight, declaring that Huerta must set
out of Mexico. lie again laid the respon
sibility for anarchy and rapine in Mexico
at the door of President Wilson.
Bestowing high praise on Myron T.
Herrick. Ambassador to France when
the Wilson administration took of
flee, and 'recalled in the midst of ex
citing duties in co'nnection with the
great war, Hughes said:
"It will ever remain a blot on the
present administration that it suf
fered him to be superseded at that
critical time."
Finally he seized upon the occasion
of another tariff talk to serve notice
upon Republicans generally that he is
to be the boss, if elected, and that no
special favors are to be expected.
With regard to the John Lind in
structions. he read once more the
propositIon Wilson is declared to have
instructed Lind to lay before the min
ister of a foreign power as follows:
"Huerta will be put out if he doesn't
get out, that is the preference of the
President that it be accomplished by
domestic means if possible, but if it
cannot be done by domestic means
other means adequate for the purpose
will be resorted to.
"I have read that as a statement of
what John iUnd was authorized to say
to a foreign minister. and I now chal
lenge the administration to deny that the
authorization was given." he declared.
IR-ginning the day at Findlay. Mr.
Hughes spoke successively at Bowling
Gre-n. Toledo. Port Clinton, Sandusky
and Elyria.
TUBERCULOSIS CASES
INCREASING IN 0. C.
Facilities for Care Inadequate, Says
Head of Hospital.
The nrenber of tuberculosis patients in
the District is increasing and the facilI
ties for their care at the Tuberculosis
Hospital are inadequate, according to the
report of W. T. Tewksberry, superin
tendent of the hospital.
Mr. Tewksberry's eighth annual report
to the Board of Charities shows that
during the fie years of the Institution's
existence the number of patients treated
daily has increased from n8 to 144, the
majority of the increase being in the last
two years. The increase last year over
the previous year was from 1_4 to 140.
The total capacity for Inmates of the
institution is 145. includying twenty-five
accommodated in the open-air shacks.
Despite the increase in the number of
patients and the limitations of the insti
tution, the Congressional appropriation
has not been increased. Mr. Tewksberry
therefore asks in his report for 3,000 in
addition to the present appropriation of
57,.360, which includes the 35.0(0 deficiency
fund authorized by the Commissioners
This slight increase, the superintendent
states, will permit the erection of addi
tional out-door shacks and the appoint
ment of more attendants.
A force of ten physicians and surgeons
treated 529 cases during the year. Of
these 12 were male whites, 61 female
whites. 112 male colored and 83 female
colored.
The total cost of treatment was, in
cluding salaries of physicians and at
tendants. $1.10 a person.
The deaths in the hospital numbered
PARSONS PLANS STUDY
OF FOREIGN NITRATES
Prof. Charles L. Parsons, of the Bu
reau of Mines. will sail October 5 to
make an extensive study abroad, pre
liminary to the establishment of the gov
ernment's $20.000,000 nitrate plant Prof.
Parsons, who is the chief of the division
of mineral technology and an eminent
scientist, will visit England, France,
Sweden. Norway and Italy.
He will pay particular attention to the
successful Norwegian methods of ex
tracting nitrogen from the air by means
of electrolysis. The location of the
United States plant will depend chiefly
on the report submitted by Prof. Par
sons.
At present. Prof. Parsons is In New
York attending the National Exposition
of Chemical Industries.
WArTS LONG FOR DEAD WIFE.
Ninety-Year-Old Man Flnda She
Had Killed Self in Room.
Ardmore, Pa-, Sept. 26.-Unconscious of
the fact that his wife was endirg her life
upstairs, 90-year-old William Dittrich eat
in his home.
Then he went across the street to the
house of Mrs. Emma C. Dunlap, where
he and Mrs. Dittrich, who was 72. took
their meals. When Mrs. Dunlap reported
the wife had not been there they went to
the Dtttrich home and began a search.
Smelling gas upstagw, they went to the
woman's room and found Mrs. Dittrich
on a bed, dead several hours.
BBAT WAY TO REGIMENT.
Ma. in Michigan Reserves Tramped
to Join Company at Border.
El Paso, Tex.. Sept. 26.-Dust-covered
and tavel-atained, Samuel L. Aker, of
Detroit. entered headquarters' tent oi
the Thirty-first Michigan Infantry and
sluted the adjutant.
-Private Aker had missed joining his
regiment at the State mobilization campl
in Michigan and had ridden freight
trainls, worked in Kansas wheat fields,
given diving exhibitions and worked s
an engineer in an ice plant at Amrille,
Tex., in order to reach the border. It
took him two months to get here-but he
cearn.
Sundar Outiag to Philadelphia.
$2.50,; Chester. S2.45; Wilmington. $2.00.
regad trip, Baltimore .and Ohio. 2:06
'STRIKE ON TODAY
250,000 Expected to Join
Walk-Out in New York.
(By the International New. Servies.]
New York, Sept 2dt -On the eve of the
proposed general wallr-out of organized
labor In New 'Iek. the promoters of the
movements tonight admitted Ignorance of
the probable ta.ults. Only general esti.
mates of the number (xpected to susfend
work tomorrow were made.
rinest Bohm. secretary of the -rater
New York labor Conference and of the
lfntral Federated tion. insisted that
men and wone- will quit work be
ftire night.
'On Thursdav om more will go out.
and 100.0 on Friday." he added.
Asked how o' arri .ed at the round fig.
ures. he said h? could not tell
More than 300 agents of various district
councils and local unions that have voted
to strike were about the Continental
Hotel this evening. They had been called
to distribute folders condemning "Rocke
feller. Morgan and their associates In con
trol of the traction lines in the city of
New York.'' Tens of thousands of the
leaflets were distributed
Mayor Mitchel today sent a request to
the strike leaders to call upon him.
Hugh Frayne. rcpresentative of the
American Federation of Labor, respond
ed, and was accompanied by Morris li;
quit and Timothy Healy.
"The mayor simply wanted to ask us
what we intended to do." said Mr. Frayne
afttr the conferenc "'We told him that
the vote of the labr- organizations indl
cated that at least 'N"O- workers would
go out on Wednesday."
The mayor made no statement regard
ing the conference.
Fo-rty-eight of the sixty-eight members
of the board of business agents of the
Manhattan Building Trades Couned. met
and voted unanimously to recommend a
strike of the organization.
PARLEY ON BLACKLIST
CAUSED BY 'RED TAPE'
Bankers Unable to Wait for Govern
ment to Act.
IBy the International News Service.)
New York. Sept Y.-The large arount
of "red tape ' in the State Department at
Washington is the reason why hankers
and business interests are conferring in
[Tormally with Sir Ri'hard Cr-awford.
trade adviser of the B rtish Embassy at
Washington relative to ways and means
for obtaining reliff from the British
censorship and blacklist.
One of the perticipants in yesterday's
conference here made the fo0egoing state
ment today.
''Complaints of American firms have no
been placed with the State Ioepartmen
freely." this business mar, said. becaus.
there is so much 'red tape' .' the Stat,
)eptartment. and rather than go through
it we prefer to go ahead and get relie ai
quickly as possible from what we con.
aider onerous laws ipassed by Grea
Britain. (ur dis ussions have nothing to
do with the legality of these las, tha
being a matter to be settled betwee. th<
two governments."
It developed today that British interest,
also will appoint a committee similar t<
that which is to be appointed here by the
business men so that the British censor
when seeking Irformation may obtain i
readily from them.
11-YEAR-OLD KILLED
TRYING TO BREAK COLT
recal to The Washm-ta He-aid.
Scranton. Pa., Sept 2-Eleven-year
old Frank Gillette, of Lake Ariel, aas
killed while trying to break a colt owne<
by his father, Thomas Gillette. .Toepl
Gillette. A years old, who was also or
the animal, as badly burt.
Several farmers who witnessed the ac
cident say Frank Gillette tied a strong
rope around the colt-s neck. He tied the
otner end around himself and then
mounted the animal. He was dragge<
along the stony road for a mile and was
dead when picked up.
FATM TEETH RETURNED.
Seised by British. They Are Dlenied
Waiting Germans.
London. Sept. -Many sets ..f false
teeth bound for Germany are avong It-.
packets of noncontraband mail .ized -
the steamship Heligolav last March
which have leen r&. a-d from the pnlze
court as a resilt cf the interoession o
United States Con-ul General Skinror.
'Phese packages are to be returned t<
their owners in America. and not for
warded to the personi to whom thIe
were addressed.
RESRICTIONS ON FUNER AL.
Boy Died of Tetanus Following a
Fracture of His Arm.
Carlisle, Pa . Sept. 'N-Because the
State Department of Health ruled tha
the form of tetanu.. which caused the
death of Daniel Steck. 1--year-old son n
Rev. A. R. Steck. after he broke an arm
in leapfrog, waas contagious, he wa
buried here. perm;ssion to take ti-e h-d,
to York, the former home of the famIl.
being refused.
KNIFE IN HER 'REAST.
Wemnna Staza'ers lute Hoswitsi and
Accuse. Hushand.
Philadelphia. Sept. 2.-Frederck Scut.
i n. 36 years old, is being sought by the
police of the Ninth district for stabbing
his wife. Mary, aged 35i years. in thi
breast during a quarrel last right. Wit.
theknie sillsticking in her breast, Ms
Scli tgered into the German Hos,
pital and collapsed after telling her sto
to sn attendant.
CHARLES 3. HWEINB DEAD.
Noeted Commedian of Civil War D.ye
Dies in Cnea.
Chicago, Sept. S.-Charles B. Hawkins
a famous comedian of the civil war days
was buried here without a mourner pr-es
ent. The veteran actor was found dyirui
a week ago In a Cheap rooming house.
At the height of his fame Hawkins waj
a comediar, in "Ten nessee's Pardner." H<
a-as about 35 years old.
Ends Whrapnel Mairing.
M wsukee, Wis.. Sept. 2.-As the se
sultfs ths expiration of contracts ani
the 3tmldeof work on the ordears
the 1 513~es Coinsemy will diseo.
tin be e4 1 the mnmea.
D.o. GUARDSMEN
ORDERED SOUTH
BY ARMY CHIEFS
Militiamen at Camp Ordway
Will Be Sent to Mex
ican Border.
HARVEY SPREADS NEWS
Date of Departure Not Yet Announced.
Officials Ready for Heavy
Recruiting.
Secretarty of War Baker yesterday sign
ed orders sending the IFt-:,I National
Guard now encamped at Rad Va , to
the Mexiian border.
That was the no-ws that Gen Wflliam
E. Harvey gal, , in;- tran last
n.ght.
After a c-anveraaton with Ma; Gen.
Hugh I- Scott, 'hint . Stafr. ;,en Har
vey turned to the ijen in the o tfb of
the regimental adya4ant of the Third
I nfantry. Disttrit National Guard, and
delivered the announem..nt.
Gen Har"ey said Ie had ben told by
Gen Scott that he had issued the orders
just before l aving h.,A ff In the
War Itepartment at 4 3o aest- av aft
ernoon
The new, was ort med - - -- Srott's
home at For! Maer laFt I.
The recri.ng . r : . ashinton
are prepared f-r th, ruh m .rhEtments
that the armal AI the or-ers wI-l cause.
The heavy recrutting d!i, wih were
asaig-d to the differeint ,tatoans several
" 'ke ago when a mi emnnrt r-me im
minent are till at th stat: n and. atr
laltogether rcompeatent to ta :.e atita.
tion.
The orderp must h e Pert t -hr Iepart
ment of the Eat an tran,,m-', to the
camp tnrough Car t. Hora- J ,o9-b..
S A This rouitIne , ,: 1 r! take
longer than se-ral day- at , i. ;..
aithl that thE oders -. , rt n
CNTVFtar 11 "Arr Two
CARRANZA THREATENS
TO QUIT PARLEYINi
Ambassador Arredondo Leaves for
Mexico City Conference.
Eliseo Arredn1r Mutes1,n . r
d+-signate t. 9.- r:'.d 1- .:a *-it
Washington M-n ;1..1
I' 0 1it lie . n.d a. e:. a t-le.
gram ro Iem r~ ,a ' :r~g
h t) to the Men an a;.:a --a-t.
tIrin disa .. ons
.tl the- 'nited, Sta . -. . ' r ,;r
ti.- a:thdrawal :- . a- : ps
f urn M. x1o
It n ; earned f-- An r-a' V tr,!Ft
worth - rce ys-te-la, ioi ' Ar-e_
I- ar-Max:car crmt,,,!n ris. , - ad.
lockd and that e- rfe-er es face
disrupt-ton over t I f.: -- of t. mem
h, re to ag-e uptn the - -hdraa-. of the
Pershigo ,pedt;on
en C .'-:rnza tat irted hlw r-t
reeentatie. :v a, assee. - seit
upon the evacuatIon of M a:1. hv A mer
can for .i f-re arm other sat 'cr is
eer ride I d
The Inted State, I "a' 'AJ t W
Ing to '-rder the rt:-. 1: ee rof (;m
1'ershin to Am-r :- t -r 1 t de
mands I rst lat h, fe - v!rnment
admtt that the t rtod S:I . arc- has
-ightfa 1e Iri.d .e. at , -.
LANSING CONTRADICTS
BELL'S STORY OF RAID
ISecretary at - ate Laur- yrster- C
day flat!y r. r~trad:cted te- eral re
port of Ga oI-. 1o -: that
\-.ila as 1rese n a 9-. red or
huahua Ca- S rert ,b 3r s a t -
manza soid.rt deserted ! . ard
that gr.at cust.1:t < f r r -
were ca p!u-ed
.An firo: arOu- Crrr I I Sare.
tar\ La F ia t 'ta! : :5:a
Deplart menat r nf. rm;y nn -- -,
the fa T' as T 'r V 0 Nex an
hihu'hua a'.d tha: tI. -.- wer no
desert;or.
CARIANZISTAS ANNIHUATED.
Two GarrisonFa Reported Wiped Out
b illit. .
F: Paso. T. x S-p! U- \'rost com.
plet. a nmh i' c tn u (lv 1;.za Ir
:irorse m We. rn \ hVha
approxira. :: .''r mr. ' -' a 'a-lA'!
was report-d t.- Ier B. h, ua0rS
here today by secrat eg. t i f the V
ernmnt.
Vqually perasot, -ra - the eeports to
army headquarte t : ' F Ista ,-T.
pathizer, hav t --er ;-ut t deal, In the
state of C i huahu in ha : .
SEATS TO "" $25.000.
Chicagso Board of Trade Raiaea Par
I'alue.
1Chicago. Sept. 2t --Director, of the Cit
rago Board of Trade voted todIay to ratse
the par value of board mnembers-htpa to
E.00 The new ruling goes ito effect
tomorrow
It wit still be poasible. however, to
buy memberahips from memnbere at the
.market value. which range anywhere from
i3',0% up.
Mtearmer Roberval Goes Dewa Off
Oaweget Thee Ar~e save..
Oswego, N. Y.. Sept. 2.-The mstanhip
Roberval, bound fr-ott Ottawa to Owuego.
went down in a storm five mILes off
Osw-ego early today.
61~x lI.';a were bost. Three survilvora
were rescued
IKTLED ON WAY FROM ALTAR.
Carriage of Bride ad Brtdi ..
KBtrack by Tin i Three Dead.
Eammnonud. Ind., Sept. 2.-Joseph Ca.
tiemna. hism bride of an hour, and Rnmann
Stephenson. 15 yas of age, are dead to
- a. eirrrig. in which they were
returnig from t(9 wedi wasn Jggt
bs a 3(ickal Plate pM
