IZONA RE PUBLICAN
AM INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAH
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, WEDNESDAY MORNING, SEPTEMBER 27, 1916
10 PAGES
VOL. XXVIL, NO. 131
THE
AE
BEFOKE TEfflFIC AIL
Ei ATTACKS
PIVOTAL POINT IN GUI LINE
GUARDING BJPAOiEANDPERONNE
FILLS TO
(By Republican Associated Press Leased Wire)
Combles, the pivotal point in the German line guarding the approach
to Bapaume, on the north, and Peronne on the south of the Somme front,
has fallen before attacks of French and British, the Germans fighting to
the death or surrenderinq when there was no longer hope.
French and British troops swept in from three sides after their cap
ture of Morval and Freqicourt, broke throuqh the German defenses, over
ran the town and carried all before them. This place, with its, marvelous
subterranean passages and powerful fortifications, had been caught in the
qnp of the entente allies, who, coming from the north and the south,
had already advanced far beyond it and cut off communication with the
rear except a narrow strip which was covered by the allies' guns. At
the end of the fighting the '.own was filled with the bodies of Germans,
the French official statement says.
Prior t3 the loss of Combles, the effect of the victories of the French
and British armies in the capture of important strateqetic points on the
previous day was reflected in the official communication issued by the
German war office, which, after des'ribinq briefly the great bombardment
lasting four days, and the attack between tho Anc and the Somme,
admits that "the conquest of these villages on the line of Guedecourt
must be recognized," and adds: "But oefore all we must think of our
heroic troons, who faced the united Anplo-French principal force and
the massed employment of material of the whole world's war industry,
prepared durinq many months."
Thiepval, at the northwestern end of the British line, and the fortified
town of Gcnedecourt, northwest of Les Bouefs, also have fallen to the
British. .General Sir Douglas Haig ' men. after capturing Thiepval, drove
cn eastward and took the Zollern redoubt, a stronqly fortified position
which lies between Thiepval and the bend in the British line at Cource
lette. The French, likewise, advanced beyond Fregecourt and captured
the wood between that village and Morval and the qreater part of the Ger
man fortified positions lying betwoon this wood eastward across the
Bethune road to the western portion of the St. Vaastwood, nipping off
another portion of the German line of communication south of the
Bapaume. .
The German casualties in the fighting are declared by Paris to
have been heavy, and in addition, during the two days' fighting more
than 1.200 Germans were made prisoner bv the French, while the Brit
ish took in excess of 1,500. Large quantities of booty were taken by the
entente allies.
While Petroqrad continues silent with regard to the operations on the
eastern front, both Berlin and Vienna tell of the repulse of strong
Russian attacks in Volhynia, Galicia, and the Carpathian mountain
region.
On the Rumanian front Austrian1 and Germans have been compelled
to evacuate the Vulcan and Szurd-k passes of the Transylvania Alps,
in order to avoid an extensive Rumaman encircling movement.
Sofia reports the capture of the Amzarech-Pervels line in Dobrudia
from the Russians and Rumanians.
Raids by aircraft of the Teutonic a"'es since Saturday night have re
sulted in the deaths of 139 persons 74 in England and 65 in Bucharest,
Rumania. A large number of person3 a'o were injured in both regions by
the explosion of bombs dropped from Zeppelins and aeroplanes.
The rituation in Greece is still tense- Former Premier Venizelos is on
his way to the Island of Crete, suppoec"v to take charge of an insurrection
ary movement that has as its object tn forcing of the king and the gov
ernment to agree to Greece's' entry into the war on the side of the entente
allies.
Unofficial advices say that the belief is expressed in Athens in circles
very close to the king that he will dec,are war immediately.
Combles Has Fallen
PARIS, Sept. 26. The town of
Combles is ontirt-lv In the bnn.la of the
Anul. .-French forces. This is an-! cu,"miml('ation issued by the war ot
nounced in Iho official utjitPinem fri.m I fll-'e lat nignt reports the occupation
:he war i.ffic" tonight. The battle
mirth if the Somme is proceeding In
favor of the entente allies The French 1
have also advanced farther north ofilm- asl ol 11 :lna a strongly lortineu
Fr'-gicourt. ! redoubt.
Along the Pethune road the French! r'4'ne capture of Thiepval i,y the
have Kained additional frrouml British and of Combles liy the coni-
A vast stock of munitions anil nr.i-
visions were captured in Combles, tliei
'at mi nt savs. anil the town was
f.mr.il filled with Gorman dead. Else-I
where along the front in Franco,
there has been Intel mil lent ronnonarl-
(rig.
A mi-official account of Iho battle !
nf the Somme from its beginnim:
Uiv It .innenrlntr in the Bulletin
ilea Amines, s i vs that the French have comment in the papers, has proved a ernor of Indiana he sent an executive
conquered ISO square kilometers ! genuine surprise, because it has been message to the general assembly, im
al.out 70 square miles) of territory!" mumbling block in the advance of goring it to repeal the county local
om.tiired 30.000 ltnwounded prisoner, ; tne British left almost since the be- j option law under which seventy-two
removed 4.T.03 wounded and taken 141 Sinning of the offensive July 1 when counties out of the ninety-two in the
annor, most of them of heavy salimv, a check at Gommecourt was suffered. state had voted drv and eliminated 3,
.'00 machine guns and other material. Thiepval's fall gives to the Anglo- 000 saloons, on the ground that as gov-
ii is poinipo out tnai inn entente ;
allies have, broken the spirit of the
Germans at Verdun, definitely de
prived the enemv of an initiative and
tu-ned it in their own ftvor. Since
the opening of the battle, the account
avs. the Germans have thrown into
tic- biltle H new divisions and 17
liattalioru; of which 34 divisions were
mi 'he English front and 33 divisions
with the 17 battalions, were on the
French front.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
OSWino, N. Y Sept. 26. Four'
members of the crew of the steiimer
Roberval of Ottawa, which foundered
yesterday in Lake Ontario, nine miles
from here, were pickel up late today
on an impiovised raft, after being
1 uffeted by the. sea for 20 hours with
out food. Two others reported missing
were seen in a yawl forty miles from
here near the Canadian shore, it was
reiHirted tonight. This would Indi
cate that no lives were lost In the dis
Tster. The four rescued from tne raft were
Peter F.ligh. captain of the Roberval:
Delia Parent, cook: Joseph Parrisien,
mate: and Marcel Semonnai, fireman.
They declared that Henry Sequin an
other fireman, nnd Theodore Leroy, a
deck l.iind, who probably were: saved
in the yawl, were washed overboard
from the Roberval with a deokload of
lumber.
Philip Trotler. chief eng'neer; Olivn
Seqnlna. nn assistant to Trotier, and
Kd-vard Legault, wheelman, who took
to a lifeboat and reached here early
today, had reported that the rest of
the new probably had been drowned.
Captain Fllgh. describing the plight
tonight in which he. Miss Parent, Par
risien und Semonnai. found them
olve tifte- being- Rena-ifd from the
either of the rrew. said they impro
vised their raft from lumber on dek
and then cast adrift. They had not
i"n th Rohervnl sink, he sala.
Captain Elieh told n thrilling story
of the experiences of himself and the
others e.ii th improvised raft. Manv
limes last n'cht, he said, all were in
firtftp- r.f hein drowned, ns it was
with difficulty that they succeeded In
STEAMER FOUNDERS BUT CREW IS
SAVED flFTEH BATTLE WITH WAVES
Thispual Also Taken
UJ.MiU.N, Sept. zi.ln addition to
the capture of Combles. the ofiieial
' v th" Irtish of the important town
" Thiepval on the noitliwestfc.n end
of the Somme front, the high ridge to
bint-d Anslo-Fiencn forces, announce.!
i in the latest official cummunicutions
ls reKurueu Here :is tne most impori-
,,nl of the western front since
thp opening of the Brand oflensive.
The fall of Combles was expected
l"r weeks it lias been in process of
fncirclement by the British nnl
rrench. Hut the capture of Tiucpva?
which was announced too lale for
...c ...c u. .u.r
hills which slope to the plain upon
which the town of Hipaunie makes
the next fortified center.
The semi-official accounts of the
capture of Combles speaks of the larg j
number of garrison and the great J
nuantity of war-like stores taken, j
Re-iter's official correspondent rays:
"This great success was won at
(Continued on Page Two;
keeping the raft together. The rescue
was affected Z0 miles northeast of
here by guards of the Big Sandy life
saving station.
Captain John J. O'Hagan of the
steamship Oceana, arriving tonight,
reported passing the two men in the
yawl. The little craft corresponded to
the description of the one carried by
ine nooervai, u was said.
Drive Industrial Workers
From Town With Ball Bats
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NORTH YAKIMA. Wash. Sent. 26.
Following two demonstrations to
day when citizens, armed with base-
nan oats and axe-nandles, esceirted
forty acknowledged members of the
Industrial Workers of the World, first
to two iced refrigerator cars in an
effort to run them out of town, and
later to the county jail, the citizens
of North Yakima this afternoon held
a second mass meet meeting and took
steps to preserve peace.
The trouble began when the al
leged agitators started tearin? up the
jail after they had been arrested for
street disturbances. Between 100 and
li)0 ntizens armed with clubs took
nurt in the o.i..illr,v lk.
leading them from the jail to the
refrigerator cars. They had hoped
to rush them out of town, but the
railroad company refused to haul the
Hughes Dares Administration to Deny Lind Charges
jz? j& j? ? j& & .
MAY SELL ISLANDS
WITHOUT AN ELECTION
L.TIMlAlrtA iaepi. Zll, V v ia j
j London) The Associated Press j
! learns from the representatives of
! the various parties that it is be- I
1 of the Danish West Indies to the j
I of the. Danish West Indies to the .
I United States will be settled with
I out resort to a general election
on the basis of the government
bill which now has passed all
I stages find has been sent to a i
joint committee of both houses of
parliament. From statements made
to the corresjKjndent, it is appar- J
I ent that everybody in the rigsdag !
I is tired of the question.
! . . I
,j
Fill HUES
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
COLORADO SPRINGS. Colo., Sept.
26. All four national candidates of
the republican and democratic partus
were heatedly arraigned for their atti
tude on the liiiuor question by J.
Frank Hanly today when the prohibi
tion campaign train started its two
day tour of dry Colorado. Ira Lan
drith, Hanly's running mate, also
scored Wilson.
Hanly flayed Wilson for his failure
to state whether the California wets
were representing him correctly as
being opposed to 'prohibition declared
that as a result of having obtained the
repeal of the local option laws in In
diana, Vice President Marshall has
'blood on his hands:" assailed Hughes
for not coming to the aid of the dry
forces and urged Coloradoans to de
mand an expression from Fairbanks
on the liquor question when he enters
the state tomorrow. Most of Hanly's
fire was directed at Wilson in connec
tion with the president's declaration at
Baltimore yesterday that this nation's
timidity In the face of foreign compe
tition was all that he ever had leen
ashamed of in America.
"Here we have it at last from the
president's own lips," Hanly declared
at Trinidad. "He is not ashamed of
the alcohol liquor traffic with its de
bauchery, its intimidation, its crime
and its civic corruption, and he is not
ashamed of the partnership between
the government at Washington and
this, the greatest racial evil that ever
cursed a nation or damned a people.
"And the democratic candidate for
vice president is even worse. As gov-
ernor or me state nc was unacie to
enforce the law.
"Fpon his recommendation the law
wag repealed and 2,000 licensed saloons
returned to the state. There is blood
on his hands. A damned spot that will
not out."
"Mr. Fairbanks will come and go
without telling vou where he stands,"
Hanly told his Pueblo audieii"e.
Raton. N. M., had the first meeting
today. Entering Colorado, stops were
made at Trinidad, La Junta, Rocky
Ford, Pueblo and here. At Pueblo the
speakers found their meeting set for a
vacant lot behind the postoffice and no
one present. Hastening to a city com
missioner they obtained a permit to
speak in the streets and soon as
sembled a crowd. The train will stop
in Salida. Leadville. Glenwood Springs
I and Grand Junction tomorrow, leaning
here early in the morning.
Colorado will vote this fall on a pro
nosal to permit the sale of beer with
in the state on the theory that it is
non-intoxicating.
NORWEGIAN STEAMER SUNK
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON' ,Sot. 21-. The Norwegian
steamer Bufjord. 1.489 tons, has been
j sunk, according to a Lloyd's dispatch
from Barcelona, i tie crew was lanoeo
cars. The men were later removed
from the cars and escorted back to
the county jail, where they were held
during the second mass meeting, pre
sided over by Mayor Barton, when
the citizens decided to support the
city and county authorities in han
dling the situation. They decided
that their ctmn earlier in the day
was unlawful.
During the riot started by the I.
W. W members in the city jail they
tore up the bunks, floors and win
dows and yelled until the fire de
partment poured streams from two
lines of hose on them. It was at thin
juncture when the prisoners kept up
the clamor that the vigilance com
mittee of between 100 and 150 broke
into the Jail and hurried them to the
railroad station and later to the
county jail.
Some of the prisoners were released
tonight on promise to leave town.
DUE
N
THOUSANDS TO
ILK OUT TO
AID CAR IN
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, Sept. 26 With the an
nouncement by labor leaders that ap
proximately 250,000 union workers in
various trades would quit their places
tomorrow in aid of the striking car
fnen here, it was believed tonight that
the effort to tie up virtually all indus
tries in Greater New York had reached
an acute stage. The union officials
declared that an additional 100,000
workers would strike on Thursday and
another 100,000 on Friday, making a
total of 450,000 out by the end of the
week.
It was asserted that 6,000 brewery
workers, 115,000 employes in the build
ing trades, and 250,000 members of the
Tinted Hebrew trades were in favor
of a sympathetic strike.
Twelve thousand teamsters also
were reported ready to quit work
Thursday or Friday. A meeting of the
executive counc of the building trades
was called for Thursday to take final
action, after the business agents in
Manhattan and the Bronx had voted
for tho strike.
Mayor Jlitchel summoned the labor
leaders before him as soon as he heard
of their plans.' He said he desired to
be informed directly as to what might
be expected tomorrow. The union of
ficials, he announced, told him they
expected 200,000 workers to strike "as
a starter."
After a meeting of the joint labor
ou-n,fereiicw. committee, strikers- were
supplied with pamphlets for distribu
tion throughout the city in which at
tacks were made on the so-called Mor
gan and Rockefeller interests.
"Rockefeller, Morgan and their asso
ciates control the transit lines of the
city itt New York," the pamphlets
read, "and they also control the rail
roads, mines and public utilities
throughout the country as well as most
of the banks and nearly all o the
money."
Members of the state legislature
from this city who called on Governor
Whitman late today and urged him to
convene the senate and assembly in an
extraordinary Ression to deal with the
strike situation, submitted a draft of a
proposed arbitration act.
The governor, although opposed to
calling the legislature together at this
time, studied the proposed law care-
lully and said he believed there was
room" for it on the statue books.
The act outlined would provide a
fine of $5,000 and revocation of the li
cense of a corporation that breaks an
agreement to arbitrate, and a fine
against the union breaking such agree
ment, whore the public interest is af
fected or likely to be affected. Gover
nor Whitman, it was said, promised to
confer with the -ublic service commis
sion concerning tha proposed measure.
TO ADOPT PLATFORM
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DKNVKR, Sept. 26. Republican and
democratic candidates of Colorado met
here today to adopt platforms. The
democrats appointed a committee
which is to draft a platform and re
port tomorrow. The republican plat
form, comt leted late tonight, endorses
the administration of Governor George
A. Carlson, approves the declaration
of Charles K. Hughes with respect to
woman suffrage. and upholds In
strong terms the recently enacted
prohibition amendment and declares
in favor of further restriction of the
importation of liquor into the state.
0
SECY WILSON ON STUMP
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO, Sept. 26. William B.
Wilson serretnn of 1aW will Kao.tr.
a speaking tour "of the west in behalt
or wnson anc Marshall in Indiana.
October 5 and 6, and then go to
Missouri October 9 and 10. Other
dates announced for him are: Butte,
Mont., October 23; Cheyenne. Wyo.,
and Denver. Colo.. Outober 27; Ne
braska, October 2S: Des Moines, la.,
October 30, and Chicago, October 31.
o
Soldier Scribe
To Leavenworth
For Six Months
' Republican A. P. Leased Wire
COLUMBUS. N. M.. Sept. 26. Pri
vate Hugh Clark, of Company D.
Second Massachusetts Infantry, was
sentenced tonight to six months at
hard labor in the disciplinary bar
racks at Fort Leavenworth, together
with a dishonorable discharge; from
the service.
Clark, shortly after his arrival at
the border, wrote letters to a news
paper of Holyoke. Mass.. from which
his company came, charging his com
pany officers with neglecting the the
men and his captain with appropriat
ing company funds. These letters
were published. Clark admitted their
authorship, but adhered to tho
charges. He was tried by a general
court martial for conduct unbecom
ing a soldier.
The pinnHmr.n'ii sentence was ap
proved by the war department.
EW YORK TODAY
AMEND NEUTRALITY
LAWS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW LONDON, Conn., Sept. 26.
Revision of American neutrality laws,
with a view to discouraging Americans
from participating in Mexican faction
al conflicts was suggested at the con
ference of the Mexican-American joint
commission today. It was indicated
that Mexico would be able to cjeal
more eyeciiveiy wun rebels and ordi
nary bands of outlaws if the neutrality i
laws were amended in such manner as j
to make it an offense for an American I
citizen to participate in any way In a '
movement against a government with
which the United States is at peace.
The discussion of the neutrality laws
of both countries was incident to con
sideration of suggested plans for the
cooperation of the authorities of both
countries in maintaining peace along
the border. The Mexicans charged
that the inadeiuacy of the American
laws made possible the propagation of
conspiracies on American soil against
established order in Mexico. The con
sideration of the operation of neutral
ity laws was not confined to those of
the United States, however. The
Americans, since the beginning of the
conference, have held to the argument
that Mexico should so govern her
frontier as to make unnecessary the
presence of an American party on the
south side of the boundary line, and
attention was called to the cases in
which the Mexican neutrality laws or
their enforcement was at fault. -
BANKERS TALK
OF GOLD AND
E
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
KANSAS CITY, Mo.. Sept. 26 Im
mediate retirement of all greenbacks
and a gradual withdrawal of national
hank notes, placing the currency of
this country on a basis of gold coin
and federal reserve notes, was dis
cussed here tonight by bankers at
l ending the conference of the national
bank section of the American Bankers'
association in annual session. The
discussion, provided for in the call for
th meeting, - followed addresses by
John Skelton Williams, comptroller of
the currency and Frederick W. Hyde
of Jamestown, N. Y., president of tho
association.
It was explained that the national
banking act and the reserve law al
lowed a partial duplication of control.
The desire was expressed by some
members to consolidate the two de
partments under one head. Codifica
tion of the two acts also was dis
cussed. The meeting tonight followed a day
of continuous activity by the thou-
(Continued on Page Two
T
WILSON If
W
YORK IN NEXT FEW WEEKS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONG BRANCH, N. J.. Sept. 26.
As a. result of a conlerence here to
night between President Wilson and
Judge Samuel Seabury. democratic
canelidate for governor of New York,
the president is exiiected to make one
or more speeches in New York with
in the next few weeks. No final ar
rangements have been made. but
Judge Seabury remained at Shadow
Lawn over night and will discuss the
New Y'ork political situation with Mr.
Wilson further in the morning
The president has been told that it
is imperative that the democrats
carry New York, and it is said con
centrated efforts will be made to lire
sent the democratic case to the New
York voters.
William F. McCombs, democratic
candidate for United States senator,
will see the president within the next
few davs It will be the first con
ference between the two since Mr.
McCombs refused to accept a second
term as chairman of the democratic
national committee. Mr. Wilson will
do everything possible to secure Mr.
"McCombs" election.
In spite of the deteimination of
Mr. Wilson to make only non-political
speeches on his forthcoming trips
away from Shadow Lawn, it appears
probable tonight that he -would find
means for getting his views on par
tisan questions before the country.
His addresses here will bo more on a
oolitical character than those in other
places.
Elaborate arrangements are being
made to turn the reception of the
president Saturday to members of
voung men's democratic clubs into a
big political event. It will be the
first time since his notification
speech that the presdent has ad
dressed a purely democratic audience.
Up to the present Mr. Wilson ha.s
persistently refused to carry on any
active campaign for re-election. He
AS REMEDY
The American commissioners sub
mitted a list of border raids that had
been compiled by the war department.
The Mexican commissioners countered
by the presentation of another list
specifying instances where soldiers
and civilians had crossed the boundary
into Mexico. This list also contained
instances where Mexican nationals
were said to have lost their lives and
property on American soil,
It was said that today's session was
the first of a series in which it was
xpected the various suggested forms
of cooperation between the two gov
ernments in preventing boraer disturb
ances would be considered.
More rapid progress in the direction
of an agreement on some plan of bor
der control is expected to be made
now. That an immediate agreement
is improbable, however, was indicated
by the announcement that the com
missioners have reservations at a ho
tel in Atlantic City, N. J., where the
conferences will be continued Monday.
Two more sessions will be held here,
but without Luis Cabrera, head of the
Mexican commission. Business in
Boston made it necessary for. him to
go there late today.
The American members studied a
long memorandum today, submitted by
a group of mining men relative to
conditions in Mexico that they claim
are such as to make hazardous their
return to mining operations.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, Sept. 26. Major
Ar-
thur S. Humphreys and Lieutenant
! Hugh Levick, Jr., British army officers
detained at Ellis Island under a recent
order from Washington to the immi
gration officers to hold soldiers of
belligerent countries attempting to en
ter the United States were taken be
fore a siiecial board of inquiry today
and a report of the evidence was sent
(n '-t uli i r,crt.Ar Tho officers
i asked questions to establish that they
are still members of the British army.
Pending decision, which was asked
for immediately by Immigration Com
missioner Howe, they were given the
freedom of Ellis Island and quartered
in the commissioner's own rooms. Ma
jor Humphreys is accompanied by his
wife and she is held with him.
Commissioner Howe when shown a
dispatch from Washington saying that
it was stated both at the state depart
ment and immigration bureau that
nothing was known of any order today
effecting officers or men of European
(Continued on Page Two)
HOLD BRITISH
ARMY U AT
ELLIS ISLAND
IKE SPEECHES IN
takes the position that it is undig
nified for a president to go out seek
ing votes.
Vance C. McCormlck, chairman of
the democratic national committee,
will confer with the president tomor
row. Walter Lipman, of the New
Republic, also will see Mr. Wilson to
morrow.
The president motored to Prince
ton this mcrning and voted in the
New Jersey democratic primaries in
the old fire engine house, where he
cast his ballots when he was presi
dent of Princeton University. No re
turns from the primary were re
ceived at Shadow Lawn tonight be
fore the president retired.
Serious Fire Is Raging
In Clay Mine at Morenci
(Special to The Republican)
MORENCI, Sept. 26. Fire of un
known origin and extent, raging in the
Clay mine of the Arizona Copper com
pany here since Sunday, had apparent
ly increased in size tonight, although
conditions in the mine, above the
Humboldt level remained much the
same as this afternoon. It has thus
far been imnossible to surround the
fire or to define it.
One man, W. H. Longway, a civil
engineer in the employe of the com
pany was slightly injured. He was
one of the first to attempt to explore
the stope, where the fire was found
Monday, and was overcome by smoke.
In a statement tonight, a mine offi
cial said it had been impossible to dis
cover how the fire had started. All
possible measures have been taken to
prevent the spread of the fire, which
MAKES EIGHT
SPEECHES l!l
DAY IN 0UIO
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CLEVELAND, Sept 26. Charles E.
Hughes tonight challenged the admin
istration to deny his charge that John
Lind was authorized by President Wil
son in 1914 to say to "the minister
from a foreign power to Mexico" that
Huerta would be "put out" of the pres
idency of Mexico if he did not volun
tarily get out.
Mr. Hughes issued his challenge in a
speech here before an audience in the
Central Armory. In the same speech
Air. iiugnes lauaea Myron T. Herrick,
sitting on the platform with him, for
the manner in which he discharged the
duties of ambassador to France in the
early days of the war and declared that
tne appointment of a man to succeed
Mr. Herrick "in a time of great emer
gency" would "ever remain a blot upon
the present administration."
The nominee's speech here tonight
was the last of eight delivered on tho
Becond day of his campaign through
Ohio. Among them was an address at
Toledo before emlployes of a large
automobile plant during which a num
ber of workmen he addressed cheered
repeatedly for Wilson. This meeting'
closed with a volley of questions from
the edge of the crowd prompted by his
attack on the adoption of the Adam
son law, and by uncomplimentary ref
erence to the nominee himself.
"WThat about the Danbury hatters'
case?" was the chief question. One
man started it and others took it up
and when the nominee closed his
speech the words were echoed by many
voices. Mr. Hughes heard the commo
tion and thinking that it came from
men on the edge of the crowd that had
not heard his reference to the Adam
son law, said:
"If you will tell my friends over there
what I have said, I think they will
understand my views."
Later Mr. Hughes said he had not
heard the reference to the Danbury
hatters' case.
In his second address at Toledo and
in his speech here tonight Mr. Hughes
renewed his attack on the administra
tion for the Adamson law and declared
that it was the duty of the executive
to stand "like a rock" for the principle
of investigation before legislation and
not to surrender to force it kii, rr.
ledo addresses and here, he was cheered
apyiauuea.
Mr. Hughes' challenge to the admin
istration was part of his attack on the
administration for its Mexican policv
"We cannot maintain our just influ
ence on this hemisphere in connection
with our sister republic until we are.
correct in our internal attitude and
careful and correct in our internal
po icy, he said. "That is the deplor
able thing about the conduct of affairs
in Mexico We have not won the
friendship, but rather lost the friend
ship of those who are in the sister re
public of Mexico torn by disturbances
Only the other day we had a very
clear statement of the principle that
should govern us in this matter and in
similar matters. It is a statement
which comes from the head of the ad
ministration and it is very clearly put
It says, referring to Mexico: 'We
have professed to believe that every
nation, every people, has the right to
order its own institutions as it will
and we must live up to that profession
in our actions in absolute good faith.'
That is the principle. I deeply regret
that that principle was not followed.
"I have here the statement of the.
policy of the administration as it was
set forth in the early part of April,
1914. John Lind was authorized to
make this statement to a minister rep
resenting a foreign power in Mexico:
"Huerta will be put out if he does not
fret out. It is the preference of the
president that it be accomplished by
diplomatic means if possible, but if it
cannot be done by diplomatic other
means will be resorted to.'
"That is a declaration of personal
assault upon Huerta to be carried to
the conclusion of elimination, despite
the statements that we have made and
the representations that we were to
recognize the sovereignty of Mexico
and not attempt to interfere with the
conduct of Mexico."
Mr. Hughes' reference to Mr. Herrick
was as follows:
"In this presence1 I desire also to
(Continued on Page Two)
is corifined to a single stope. Draeger
fire fighting apparatus and oxygen
helmets have been sent from Globe by
the Inspiration Company and will be
used in exploring the smoke-filled
drifts and in combatting the spread of
the fire.
Manager Carmichael Here
Manager Norman J. Carmichael of
the Arizona Copper company, who is
in Phoenix on business, when asked
about the fire in the Clay mine of his
company at Morenci, said last night
that no new developments had taken
place. He understood from his latest
reports that the fire was under control.
He could not say how it had started, or
what the extent of the damage might
be. He assured his interviewer that
the blaze was not a serious one, and
that as far as he knew, no one had
been injured.
