THIS PAPER Issued In
two sections Section
two—Pages 1 to 6—Lo
cal news, stories, corre
spondence and Denison
locals.
VOL. 51
Ua
MENS, FESTI
VAL IS'NOW ON
Ed A. Evans' Shows Now Occupy Prin
cipal Business Street*—
Most of
Tents Blown Down Tuesday
CROWDS SEEM WELL PLEASED
Attractions Open Each Afternoon and
Evening—Splendid Band Music
—Three More Days.
The firemen's fall carnival received
its first real Impetus 'oa Monday
night when the Ed A. Even's attrac
tions were opened for public inspec
tion. The usual first night crowd was
in attendance and the shows did only
a fair business.
During the storm Tuesday afternoon
most of the tents were blown down
and considerable damage was done.
It was demonstrated that sand bags
cannot be depended upon to holl
tents down during a wind storm for
they were whiipped about in great
fashion. The 49 camp located on Cen
ter street was the first to fall a vic
tim of the storm and for a time it
was feared it would be blown across
the street into the plate glass win
dows of the Crawford county bank.
The tent pitched- across from the Re
view office where the horse show is
held was torn to ribbons by the wind
and the front was badly 4ta|n But"
few of the tents escaped damage but
the owners of the small concession
were the heaviest losers. The tent
occupied by the fishing game where
glass vases and dishes are given
away as prizes was a complete wreck
and the owner sustained several hun
dred dollars loss. After the storm the
men commenced the work of repair
ing the damage done but the carnival
grounds were quiet last evening on
aocount of tlife rain and many of the
shqws did not open up for business
at all.
People who took in the carnival
Monday evening were well pleased
with it as a whole. So far there has
been no complaint of the shows given.
AH of the attractions are located or
the principal business streets. They
present a much better appearance
than they did last year as most of the
fronts are new. The biggest feature
of the carnival is the Royal Italian
band, which is one of the best that
has ever visited Dei^isoiv Concerts
are given during the forenoon and
afternoon asr well as irt the evening
Probably the best attraction is the
"Silodrome" or in the words of the
"barker", the "cage of death", where
cyclone Dennis rides a motorcycle on
a perpendicular wall at the rate of
eighty miles an hour performing
most astounding feats. As a specta­
en's Suits at
$19.50 to $40
A wonderful, assortment of Hi rsch-Wick wire..
and Fruhauf clothing. These garments are made
up in all-wool pure worsted fabrics in the very
newest snappy styles for young men and the
more conservative styles for middle aged and
elderly men. Successful men everywhere evi
dence the value of being well dressed, for well
dressed men are successful, because successful
men are well dressed. That's reason enough
for you to buy your clothes from Menagh's dur
ing their October Sale. Don't delay, but come
in at once. We shall be pleased to show you
these lines. Priced from $19.50 to $40.00.
filSRiit®
cular and sensational exhibition, it
is hard to equal.
The MusicalrMaids present a diver
sified' entertainment' consisting of
musical numbers, vaudeville, the lat
est Slides from the European war and
the Titanic disaster. The lecture given
with the slides is one of the most in
teresting eve,r offered and realistically
depicts these two horrors. Miss Julia
Hutchminson the girl who sings to
beat the band renders popular songs
at each performance.
The athletic show is an innovation
to the show going public. For the first
time the Bennet sisters are appearing
under canvas in a big Athletic r&vue
consisting of evhibitions of bag punch
ling, club swinging, fencing, boxing,
and wrestling.
Forrest, the equine wonder, will be
seen at the Horse Show in a remark
able exhibition. This horse actually
writes figures on a slate with chalk
held in ills mouth. Tony Grand, a year
old colt, is an added attraction that
pleases all visitors.
The Ten-inOne show features Tom
phool, the fire eating wizard. He
actually eats fire, glass, steel, and any
thing that you hand him. This one act
alone is well worth the price asked
for the entire exhibition.
Over and Under the Sea and Here
after are two mec.tir,niieal laughing
shows of merit. Built as laugh pro
ducers tliey fill the bill in every re
spect.
The "Days of 49" depict the mining
camp dance hall of the early days
made famous in fiction' by that noted
writer, Bret Harte.
A feature with the show worthy o'
special mention is the Royal Italian
band under the leadership of Prof
Michel Bindi. This band has made an
enviable reputation, this season _and
is considered one of the best organi
zations in the carnival business.
All of the attractions will open each
afternoon at two thirty and each
night at seven thirty, preceded by a
concert of popular music by the Royal
Italian hand.
A crew of painters working west
from New York City over the Lincoln
highway, re-marking the route, visited
Denison last Thursday. The crew is
traveling in two machines especially
equipped for the work, the machines
being donated by an automobile manu
facturing concern. Members of the
crew stated while in Denison that the
route through Crawford county was
the best marked of any stretch west
from New York City through which
they have traveled. Very little mark
ing was done -in this county, only a
few poles, being marked with left and
right signs when the route turns. The
business m-en of Denison spent consid
erable money two years ago in mark
ing the highway through the county
and it is -gratifying to know that the
marking is so satisfactory.
266 TEACHERS
ATTEND INSTITUTE
Teachers' Institute Held Thursday and
Friday Was Well Attended and
Strong Program Given.
BEST PROGRAM YET PRESENTED
Supt. Olry Is to Be Congratulated on
Arranging Sue ha Program—Very
Profitable to Teachers,
The teachers' institute held in Den
ison on Thursday and Friday of last
week was attended by 2tJ0 teachers
who came to enjoy the exceptionally
fine program arranged for them by
County Supt. F. N. Olry. The weather
was ideal on the two days which no
doubt helped to swell the attendance.
There are 257 teachers in the town
and country schools of the county
and out of these there were 05 town
teachers and 159 rural teachers, a to
tal of 254 in attendance. In addition
12 prospective teachers were present,
bringing the total attendance up to
26(i.
The meetings were held at the gym
nasium in the old opera house with
round tables at the high school and
court house. The faculty at this in
stitute was exceptionally strong, made
up of instructors of note throughout
tho state. Prof. C. P. Oolgrove, of
the Upper Iowa university at Fayette
was present and his lectures were full
of--inspiration and pointed truths in
regard to the teacher's duties. Pro
fessor Colgrove has a most pleasing
personality and everyone enjoyed his
talks to the fullest extent. Dr. W. A
Jessup, president of the State uni-1
versity, had promised tg attend the
institute, but at 'the last moment was
unable to come and his place was filled
by Prof. 13. E. Lewis. Professor Lew
is gave two interesting lectures and
two round table discussions that were
of practical value to the teachers.
Miss Eleanor Lally's lectures on the
teaching of English were the best that
have ever been heard at local insti
tutes. Miss Lally gave the teaeehrs
of this county many valuable pointers
in connection with teaching this im
portant subject.
Miss Anna Mae Brady, primary sii
pervisor of the A«idubon schools, gave
practical work in primary methods
and in story telling. The teachers
who attended her lectures will profit
by her usable suggestions. Miss Win
ifred Wright, instructor of music In
the Denison schools, had oharge of
the round table discussions on music
and Miss Lillian Miller, instructor of
domestic science, also gave some talks
on this work.
The high school section, consi»ting
of superintendents and high school
An Event of Importance to Men
«~s 100 MEN'S SUITS,—tailored by one of the greatest men's
clothing houses in the United States, offered during our October
Sale. This showing affords you a splendid assortment of suits
madp in the very newest and most up-to-date styles. And these
gsrmen'.s, at the prices at which they are offered, will give you a
big return for your money. For this reason you should buy a
Menagh suit during our October Sale. This entire offering of J00
suits will be priced at
$13.85
Make Your Selection Early and Profit by It
New Skirts for Fall
THE DENISON REVIEW
THIS WEEK'S NEWS THIS WEEK, NOT NEXT WEEK
DENISON, IOWA, WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 27, 1916.
teachers, were given facts in regard to
their line of work. At one of their
meetings a county athletic associa
tion was organized which will lead to
some good field meets between the
schools of the county.
Most of the teachers in attendance
at this institute stated that it was the
most beneficial meeting of its kind
they had ever attended. One of the
lecturers stated 'that he had visited
nearly every county in the state, but
here in Crawford county he found the
best attended institute and the teach
ers showed the most interest of any
institute he had ever lectured beforo
Professor Olry is to be congratulat
ed upon the program that was ar
ranged and the teachers are loud in
their praise of his efforts to give
them the best obtainable.
Notwithstanding the large number
in attendance at the two days' session
all of the teachers were nicely accom
modated, most of them being able to
secure rooms in private homes.
—i,
WILL PLAY\CARROLL SATURDAY
Denison High School Football Team
Will Meet Carroll Eleven at Car
roll Next Saturday.
The Denison high school football
team will have their first game of the
season Saturday when they meet tiie
Carroll team at Carroll. About twenty
or twenty-five men will make the trip
The locals are not expecting an easy
victory, although tho Carroll team has
always proven easy opposition for the
Don-ison team. The championship game
with west high school of Des Moines
Featuring Verv Attractive Models
Late Arrivals
If a complete assortment of styles is any
inducement to buy, you will have no difficulty
in making your selection here Every new
style is represented. The materials are the
most desirable poplins, serges, Panama
cloth, gabardines, novelty plaids and the new
Roman stripes.
Serges in plain black and navy, Roman
stripes and a beautiful assortment of large
colored plaids. Shirred effects, pleated mod
els and tailored styles, trimmed with pockets,
belts and buttons.
An unusually comprehensive showing in
all lengths and in waist bands from 22 to 40
in., ranging in price from $5.95 to $13.50.
This game
all
park October 7th.
bring to Denison the best football team
ever seen in action here. West high
fe out for another championship and
So is Denison. A victory over them
would insure a state championship.
Tho team is being pointed for this
game and the coaches are optimistic
over their chances.
The past week at scrimmage has
shown that many of the old stars are
fast rounding into shape. Locke is
holding down his old position at half
back. O'Connor is 'working for a job
at quarterback. Wearmouth, Lehfeldt
and Flinn are fighting it out for places
in the back field. In the line Gary
Flinn and Lally are working for the
end positions. Cavett has been
switched from center to tackle, where
he is showing up well. Henry Laub
and Helsley are also out for tackle
jobs. Saverv, Strahan, Bassett and
Brandt are all working hard for places
at guard. O. Brodersen and Norelius
are playing center.
On- the seoond-.t«ftju-.MofBtt, H.
Brodersen and McCord are working
well in the back field, with a line coin
posed of Gebert, Weiss and Suiter at
ehds, Heiden and Holleran at tackles
and F. Smith and Rank at guard. They
have a game scheduled with Ida Grove
seconds at Ida Grove November 25th.
SUPERVISORS
FIX TAX LEVY
Levy 21.2 Mills As Against 19 Mills for
Last Year—'County Drainage
Boosted 2 to 5 Mills.
1 MILL LEVY FOR MONUMENT
Bridge Bonds a Year Ago Were
Mills, Now the Board Fixes the
Levy at 1.2 Mills,
At a meeting of the board of super
visors, held Saturday, the tax levy for
the year 1917 was fixed and approved.
The total levy as made by the board
totals 21.2 mills, as against 19 mills
for last year, the increase being made
'n the county levies by the board. An
additional levy of 4 mills has been
made for the county levy, while the
levy for county drainage was boosted
from .2 mills to .5. Bridge bonds a
year ago were .8 mills and this year
they are fixed at 1.2 The levy for sol
diers relief work has been raised from
.2 mills to 1 mill, this being made to
raiso the amount necessary for the
erection of the old soldiers' monument
whicli is to cost in the neighborhood
of $9,000.
Below we print a table giving the
levies of tin's year and those of a year
ago.
1917 1916
State State
mills mills
General revenue ... ... 4.33 4.33
Capitol extension 17 .17
County Countp
County levy ..... .... 5.4 5.
Bridge
1
The First Week of Our October Sale!
We expect to do this week the greatest volume of business that we have ever known. Ana why shouldn't we? Our
preparations have been tremendous buying has been very heavy and we offer during our October Sale the highest quality
merchandise that can be bought on the American market, in some instances, at less than wholesale cost. Doesn't this mean
something to you? It surely should, as it is the duty of every economical housewife, or the head of every household, to make
every dollar do its work and we are here to hely you. Come early while the stocks are complete.
.. 5. 5.
School .... 1. 1.
Road ... 1.' 1.
Insnno .. .G
Oap7ri«bl 1916 Th. H. Bluk Oh
.("»
Poor 1. .7
Bridge bonds .• ... .. 1.2 .8
County drainage ... .. .5 .2
.... 1. .2
Total ...21.2 19.
The pojl tax of 50 cents remains the
same, as does the tax for male dog:
$1.00 and female dog $3.00.
"September Morn," the musical com
edy presented at the opera house last
evening, drew a fair sized crowd, but
a majority of those in attenCance were
disappointed with the attraction. With
the main floor seats selling at $1.50 and
$1.00 the people were led to believe
that it was to. be a first class attrac
tion,' wheit ia faet it *fas of the-second
class and not worth more thflft 75
cents. If the show going people of
Denison are to be charged city prices
they are certainly entitled to a better
class of attractions than the one given
last night or the patronage of the
house will dvvindel to nothing. Just
In Crawford County's Most Fash
ionable Women's Wear Store
Featuring 100 women's suits for this week. Suit after suit—
each a master style creation. Now that they have had a chance to
look around, women are realizing more and more that nowhere else
can they find such a collection of smart fall suits as in Menagh's
women's wear store. There are so many different styles that we can
not even list them here—except to say that you will find tailored and
semi-tailored models, sport suits and dress effects, in gabardines,
serges, broadcloths, twills, velours, plushes and other pile fabrics.
They are regular $25.00 to $45.00 values—The prices on these suits for
this week are $19.50 to $35.00.
•••'•..
.why the stockholders- of the opera
house will permit the'management to
charge city prices for inferior- attrac
lions is hard to understand.
The Woman's Relief Corps is re
quested to meet at the McHenry hall
on Saturday, September 30th.
SENT TO REFORM SCHOOL.
Boys Who Broke in Homes of Alberjt
Vernon and Gus Heiden Tried
in Juvenile Court
Arthur Reynolds, Harold Craig and
Floyd Hamilton, who were arrested at
Missouri Valley, charged with break
ing .and entering the homes of Albert
Vernon and Gus Heiden, were tried in
juvenile court last Thursday before
Judge Albert. Two of the boys were
fifteen years of age and the other thir
teen. After hearing the evidence in
the case the judge sentenced them to
the state reform school at TCldora.
The three boys entered the "homes
of Vernon and Heiden while the fam
ilies were in attendance at the old set
tlers' picnic, and stole a small amount
of money and some jewelry. They
were seen to take a westbound train
and the authorities telephoned to the
marshal at Missouri Valley, asking
him to be on the lookout for the boys.
They were arretsed there and brought,
hack to Denison. Upon investigation
it was found that Craig and Reynolds
had escaped from the reform school
two months ago.
Harold Diedrichsen, who has been
in the employ of the J. B. Romans com
pany, clerking in the hardware de
partment for the past two years, de
parted last evening for Burlington,
where he has a position with a big de
partment store. Louie Bliesman has
accepted the position held .by Died
richsen and commenced his new duties
yesterday.
The 170 acre farm located one mile
south of Denison, known as the A. L.
Rogers place, was sold last week by
Mr. August Mesenbrink to Pat Has
sett- for a consideration of $180 per
acre. This farm is well improved and
is considered one of the best pieces of
land adjoining Denison. While the
price paid is considered high, there is
little question but what it will bring
over $200 an acre in a short time.
Penelope was entertained by Mrs.
Pfarr on Tuesday afternoon. Notwith
standing the inclement weather, nearly
all the members were in attendance.
A number of invited guests were pres
ent. The hostess, assisted by her
daughters, Dorothy and Sarah, and
Miss Verne Stocking, served a very
delicious two course supper. Several
musical numbers were given by Miss
Dorothy Pfarr during the afternoon
and were greatly appreciated. Mrs.
Coolbaugh, of Springfield, Mo., and
Mrs. Nellie Ashby, of Fairmont, Neb.,
were out of town guests.
'':'.' yv '. /•V'"!
Your New Fall Coat
Will Serve as a Delightful Thought of
Fashion Long before You Need
Its Luxurious Warmth#
Every well dressed woman is eager for the moment when she
lean pub aside her late summer'garments and put on" tEe handsome
new apparel of Autumn.
A charging new Menagh fall coat will give you that most
satisfying feeling of being weil and appropriately dressed There
is a fascination about the new Menagh fall coats, because of their
graceful and beautiful styles and exquisite colorings, that will tempt
tasteful women to wear them long before the crisp days come.
A wonderful showing for the first week of our October Sale
at $19.50, $25 and $29*50. These are the regular $25.00, $§0.00
and $37.00 values.
MENAGH SBHENAGH
5
Please mention The Re
view when answering
"Classified Ads." This
courtesy will be appre
ciated.
Geo. Menagh & Company Fu|t on Style
Show at Germania Opera House
Friday Afternoon and Evening
VERY LARGE CROWDS PRESENT
Was Exact Reproduction of Omaha
Show Put on at Brandei*—
Nine Living Models Used.
Almost two thousand people wit
nessed the style show at the Germania
theater on Friday afternoon and eve
ning of last week, staged by the Geo.
Menagh company to give a correct
presentation of what iy (correct in
women's wearing apparel for the fall
months. It was a wonderful display
of garments and caused'a sensation,
especially among the women of Deni
son who had never witnessed such a
review of fashions. A style show sim
ilar to this one was given by the
Menagh company last March and it
was so successful that they decided
to repeat it again this fall. Tickets
were presented to everyone who signi
fied a desire to attend and several
days prior to the entertainment every
seat in the opera house was reserved.
Nine beautiful mannequins from
Omaha wore the beautiful suits, eve
ning gowns and party dresses and from
time to time they tripped through the
audience, giving every one an oppor
tunity of examining the garments more
closely. Every garment worn was
from the fall and winter stock of the
Menagh store in Denison or from their
Omaha store, and the hats were from
the millinery department. The shoes
worn by the models were from the
shoe department and the jewelry from
the Barborka jewelry store.
Tiie display was most effective, the
models looking most attractive. The
Barborka orchestra furnished the
music and the feature of both the af
ternoon and evening entertainments
were the beautiful solos by Mme.
Mashiere, of Omaha. The selections
were most appropriate for the occas
ion and the soloist received many
hearty encores. Mr. David Menagh
made a few brief remarks, -explaining
the purpose of the fashion review. He
stated that the review given in Deni
*son was an exact duplication of the on
they gave at the Brandeis theater a
few weeks ago and which was attend
ed by 8,000 people. It made such a big
hit in Omaha that he thought that
what was good for Omaha would cer
tainly be good for Denison. He gave
a brief review of the fall and winter
fashions, telling those present in, an
interesting way the, popular shades
and colors that shpuld be worn at this
(Continued on Page Three)
Cvpjrlfbi 1914 The IT. Black 0*
mkm
ia
4
"f-
No. 39
STYLESHOi IS
WELL ATTENDED
.A-*".'
.1
$
•1 *4
'V'J
A
1
.,11
I?
•v
1
v.*
jV.
