TODAY'S PRICES
HOME EDITION
; I
H I1 I
i .11"' -. . ai tlu
EI Taso and west Tex, fair. S
Mexiea, fair. Arizona, fair.
LAIIM NEWS BY ASSOCIATED PRESS.
sTVG'-r: ...pt mc lexts EL PASO, TEXAS,
WEDNESDAY EVENING. SEPTEMBER 27, 1916.
r!lhthHi ATHil:r.h Or A MONTH
SIXTEEN PAGES TODAY.
. . . -.
1JL JLol
fany Batteries Of Field
Artillery Are Among New
Organizations To Come.
W,000 MORE ARE
IN STATE CAMPS
HUGHES' SECOND ' 2
K! IDS GEI
MOTHS I
I HID:
G-. 0. P. Candidate Challen
ges Denial of His State
ments Regarding Lind.
Cleveland. Ohio. SejSt 27. Charles E
Hughes ended today his second cam
paign in the middle west He will re
turn on his third and last campaign
trip in' this section early in October
Charles E. Hughes. Tuesday night
Are Made Effective Fight
ing Force to Oppose Best J
Russian Troops. !
i
Berlin. Germany. Sept. 2T. The I
strength of the Turkish troops fight- j
ing In Galicia and Bukowina was care- i
fully kept secret by the German armv
administration until these forces went '
into action, but has Just become known.
challenged the administration to denv The Turks on this front number about , ffpTJpOf?C'FA4FNT
his charge that John Land was author- eeven divisions or 156.000 men. and I SIl-iir21lV 1 tJ
lied by president Wilson in 1911 to sav j f,v other divisions are said to bo
to "the minister from a foreign power I (n their way to the Carpathian moun
JUAREZ TB0DPS'MADE major general
HIT MS
GRDES
Villa Is Reported Heading
Toward Rosario; Soldier
Delivered To Pershing.
KV
iSPTNGTON, D. C, Sept. 27.
AT CHIHUAHUA
to Mexico" that Huerta would be "put j tains. The total is about 150.000 men. i j -'JOT
out" of the presidency of Mexico If he i The divisions consists exclusively of ImpTCSSWe CaOaiTU Parade
Held In the Stale Capital
Ml TJ:11 D C; T P 7.jaw not virtually get out
lit VV lit i-Jt UCItL 1 u uuiui-l I ,x iTnchrK issued his challenge in
In the Near Future For
Their Army Training.
speech here before an audience in
the central armory- He characterized
the administration's attitude at that
time as one of personal war against
Huerta.
Before Villa Chase.
fw Univhea ItAAaA tin hn,9 fleet! fll-
"V:' onal gua'd organizations i - -, .! .... n iind w
. New H-muhire, Penn-
c3..vsf n A Jersey I'istrict of Co
Ku 3 "" ,- nia. New 'iork.. labama, i
eorg "" n'.ectieut Flcida, Michigan,
f'nn Colorado .md California.
"re. 5 r. to the Mexican border to
by te war department.
' 2 ejn rations ordered south to-
- -de
IFc-J a-tillerj'- Batterv , New
re batteries c N and J. Third
er.-s-, -- a battery A district oi
re. o: F r-t battalion and battery
"V rg Third New York regiment:
rr s A ard C Alabama First
ss.so:
Senator James K. Martine Is mcreas-
., log Ms lead In the contest for the Dem-
BBC- -.-Me uMahutfiui rki Tniteri Stilts
ard 'laittnes B ,, -,.- m, ma district
ta Georgia: ban-i s E and F.
tne --tte:ies V o.-'d B. Michi- j
;.ment, VI second
r rsota
La luraao tnraniry, econa r f.r acr. wr-.-.. ubic
Icrtda re ment. Third District of Co- SV TZC.'t ii. SlSS:ZZ-
mb.a.-egent. cavalry troop A. Dis- InafiV-lVi StiiSTSSSr. "SK-
-.r ' c ..moia, engineers, company .;ri r .i i..j
a- I Dafnrae ?vAm IIA .Harriets tHxta Vp.
Inralm 6000 Troops. ilt'.. .-.;;... .rsir
iThe c-d - weans some 6000 national , ""snuysea 0.,i. .urpUJ, ,.....
lares - f"'.'B 13 states and the Ins- I nnnirinrrmuic-r riimmiTC
i( cf "o'smbia will be rent south, i rriuniDiiiunioj wuiuiuftit
irti-SSL Funston FAV0RS COLORADO GOVERNOR
io select 1 i.OUO troops now Lead ville, Colo, Sept. 47. Gov.
pairoi lor return to uieir nnr i. Carls
to be issued sometime in the iuture
either by the secretary of war or the
secretary of state.
COLGATE LEADSNEW JERSEY
G. 0. P. TICKET FOR GOVERNOR
Trenton. N. J., Sept. 27. Austen Col
gate is in the lead in the Republican
gubernatorial contest, according to cor
rected returns from Tuesday's primary
election up to this afternoon. Through
an error in totalling the morning fig
ures, "Walter E. Edge, of Atlantic City, to train efficient machine gun squads
was reported to have a maloritv of 10.- . anj stH more time was necessary to
600 votes over Colgate. The corrected I form a modern corps of engineers,
returns from 1347 districts out of 183 j Military experts who have seen the
in the state, give Colgate 5S.501: Edge, j Turkish expedition in actioi. In Galicia
I agree that it ranks with the best Ger-
. .. nt. -- ..
:iiii uuuub. j iitr viii' j di tr men vi
picked regiments composed of veterans
of the terrible battles ot uainpolt.
After the allies had been driven from
tHe Dardanelles. Bnver Pasha offered
four armv corns to Germany and Aus
tria-Hungary. The offer was accepted r ,-, . - . . . 1
at once, but the troops had to be re- ' TnlELD HEADQUARTERS in Mexico,
armed and carefully trained before . p Sept 17. Gen. Francisco Gonzales !
STtSSSJ? fesf cmuncU,, ,rtth j X of Juarez, has arrived at Casas
About 250.V00 men were sent to . Grandes. -B-hich town he will make j
camps near Constantinople where temporary headquarters presumably !
German officers drilled the.n. They t i,. .t, .... , I
were euuipped with German field gray '" "":" tU the pursuit of Villa
unitorms, new Mauser-Uaeunlicher rl- j along the Mexico North 'Western. Noth- '
Ves of the latest pattern and long
bayonets. Their fez was exchanged
for a new kind of cloth helmet in
vented bv Enver Pasha and called
"Bnverleh In his honor.
Trained By "German Officer.
TTnder the training of the Gerrran
officers the Turkish infantry became
fit for European warfare quICKly
enough, but it took considerable time
exceptional force and ability and man
of them received their military sduca-
ing has been reported to headquarters !
i here regarding Villa's whereabouts. !
IThe last report received here had him j
heading toward Rosario. I
Investigation of the brawl In the !
town oi kj vaue. tn which an American
soldier was killed and another wound
ed, while one Carranza officer was
killed and a Carranza soldier wound-
ed. has revealed that the disturbance
. resulted after a group of American sol
1 diers ran guard last Friday night anrt
visited several drinking places In E!
Valle. which is two mile from camp
Carranza soliders tried to arrest the
Americans and a fieht followed TT
wounded American was held by CoL
oi mem receivea mtir military ctuw , rw ... ... .. tm .. .. t v
rkw to. German,. Practically all of ! S&JSSS&MASlJS
Republican candi-
them speak German, and manr also
French and English.
Ob- the Gallcian front the Turkish
divisions are opposed by the finest
troops of Russia. The Russian artil
lery on this front is commanded by
French and Japanese officers and
French and Japanese soldiers raann the
heavy guns.
ItUHKlans Strong. AVell Equipped.
On both sides of the Dniester about
j 20 Russian divisions are pressing for-
d e '--
"- -rrt
- - .fc.x a.v. a'' v iu4i j ;AAifrA m. w wi& Lanvi hiiita Anw
., ,.- . h. n,.i.,i ., . "c.fac n. v.u. xkuxvu. UU.- .ward. This large armv possesses un
at: om t ' ' wo .uu0,.iu fc vx mc . . .. . .. !.... ... -""... . ..
i3cr-i s:rvce date lor reelection, was enaorsea to- limited quantities ot munitions ot an
Toe.ya c-cf will send south virtu- day by J. Frank Hanly, Prohibition J kinds and prisoners report that eacn
he guardsmen now in the candidate fo- president, as the man who . regimem nasal '?'" """r"""
icb. 2-' on camps of the states named should succeed himbelf. Hanlys en OI reserveE. some or me reserves nave . were no cjuitjpo h, said
eave only about 100.000 state riorsrment uttered at Salld-i lust be- I no. riues, out are armed quicKiy aner . nrlmrte Tte-h. rbil,.
a', the country who have not fore the special "dry" train departed i ai 1i rts uaS ?Pec,a.lly orsa",z
- "n the border. I for here, wai the ffrst he had given "quads follow the advancing regiments
Rest AMII Come South Soon. ! any candidate for office whj was nat na e?"fcl "!e arnJf OI V KJllea ana
released npon-teSSK3SrGenrT'crHn
Carranza authorities say they con
sider the killing only a drunken brawl
with nobody In narticular to blame.
Cvnxo Fights VlllUtnx.
Chihuahua City. Mex, SepL 17 An
exploring column under Gen. Jose Ca
vazos encountered a bodv of Vlllistas
west of Fresno, a station on the Mex
ico North Western railway, about ten
miles out of Chihuahua citv, but after
an exchange of shots the Carranctstas
retired to Fresno to await the coming
of Gen. Matlas Ramos with a bodv of
cavalry. This is the report which Gen.
Cavaros made Tuesday a special trip
to- town to give to Gen. Trevino. There
nd w
r-2-ps
i short time the remainder , a Prohibitionist, since the tour started. rh.,H. .,...? tH ', Ji ZJZ.
,11 be ordered south, releas- T care not what vou ma d w,th i these squads are sent to the reserves
TV
hn.rnl ixr.ll hr- iT-HoroH muth raUac. "T -. .- -. .. j .t
p...w - . ww .Vw.w uvu.u vaiB , J. uaiH ItUL WUdL VUU III it V UO IHIl . i -J
tg tt e uf te ortrantrations now un- ' - Himlv .M "vn. m n vrtt l" auiumoDuea.
.-..-, . I" - "- - - - - - - ' w -ww
Gey c na or ijen. aiascon. ' me down. Mv chief Interpt in rnln.
a a ai return ana m US ten nit rn R to Tirft vrm not M mmVm vah
. ji "v guardsmen then ie ex- present law bv adopting the proposed
c . -s l lmqmtous amendment inis lall which
" """ " I xmdsl4 TkArnf t Tkc IIa f Sf. hh
BTWO f ttili. REGIMENTS ' me. if I were voting in the state this
ARflllT Tf CTADT unilC ral1- r should cast ray ballot for the j
ADUUI 1U SiAKl nUfflt present ReDnblican candidate for irov- I
Two regirreits of infantry belonging ernor."
uo e i"e- i s ivania national guard will
I be se-t Tio-re from the border here as
Isoct as te Noi th Carolina infantry
Ircg r- e ts p-me here Thursday.
"e rer -nents to be ent haok- tn
IPep rri. i -ire the first and third
ir.fa.-trv 'nlrands. the seranrf inrnnt-tr
hat -.- bee,, urdered to remain here to
DE3IOCRAT1C PROM'URITA
UASKU 0 HiH KAIRBAK.S
Omaha. Neb., Sept. S7. Charles "War
ren Fairbanks. Republican nominee for
the vice presidency, declared here
Tuesday night that Democratic pros
perity is founded on the war. while that
Lira HOT.
IISSITI
(be rot . -ted into an artillery regiment. I nf h n.iuihnsi, rtr -nTO . r
No Oliver n-itional guard Commands ' the nnrmal anri TiMiHrfnl tnilHctrfM nt
I here Lave vet bern ordered to return
I i tneir n stations, it was an
j rcc-aced tr lay.
INNING COMPANIES PROTEST
AGAINST MEXICAN DECREES
the normal and peaceful industries of
tne people.
field has a lead over Cole of 6627.
MASFIELD XOMIAATED.
Boston, llass Sept. S7. At the state
primaries Tuesday former state treas
urer Frederick W. Mansfield defeated
former adjutant general Charles H-
Col for the rtpmncratif. nnminalliiH
'tn ' u h. oiil -, .a ininr nmAB. i r : .. .....,
Sai-si gownm-jital obstruction of ! ror governor. With 167 precincts not
t-s,-, S r M. v,o was sen? Tuesdav "R0"1 ut. ' total.f "f5--
to Frankhn K Lane, chairman of
1'iE r'.trican rommission in conference
a. cw t,, nuun. oy ix, American mining
cr-nf3-(es having a total oapitalixa-
n'j t hi Ti'urc man Ajau.uuo.tfvO.
i n
b- W
.-. . ,..... .w.j, .ou Aciiuiii coin-
W . , .-,ai.EU OJ Vlll3XitS OI 13 I
o- - companies, complained or the I Alhuailermie N. LT Rent "7 A.
n.s-i.io nature" of the taxation i Nicanor Rodriguez, a miner, was heinc-
Carranza. 1 hoisted nut nf a mini) hAU In the Uan
T'ii'Ua'ir the entiroe mining Indus- zanos mountains S miles umDimit nr
Brigade Reaches Chlhnahna.
Gen. Fortnnato Maycotte has as
sumed command in the Laguna district
near Torreon. while his place as mil
itary commandant and governor of
Durango state has been taken by Gen.
Gabriel Gavira.
Gen Apolonio Trevino has arrived
here from the south with his brigade.
Cnvalrv Parades Chlhnahna CIrv.
I Before taking up the pursuit of Villa.
I large cavalrv forces paraded this city
Tuesday, with a view to imnressing and
reassuring the peonle. These troops
vlonged to the command of Gen Fr
mos. who has under him Gens. Cavaxos,
i Inerta Vargas and! Marrero.
j Gen. Trevino states that large forces
are on their way from sonthern Doints
to the region where Vlllistas are re
London. Eng . Sept. 17 "The Greek j ported and that he still has heavy re
mlnisUnal council held in Athens ?eT7f" to draw on from other points
1 in di icrniu: w. i
illinta 1'ropogandlitK Arrested.
KasM9asai3gaiiii n mmmwumKwwfssti&mMZfiw,f'ifrir, rsaTf.rswrgsBaasissags
$WZ i&jj&v-' ra WFTy.fflmasaftraqpflStq
GEK PEESHITG
rtTZ. Otrt SEK.VJCS.
Tuesday evening." sas a wireless dis
patch from the Greek capital, "will be
followed by the resignation of the
Kalogeropoulos cabinet and by the
issue of a proclamation from king
Constantine to the nation.
"Immediately on his return from
Tatoi to Athens the Icing was sum
moned to a secret council of the Ger
manophiies. Gen. Dousmanis, former
chief of tbe .Greek general rtaff, and
M. Streit. Qneen Sophia, sister of the
German emperor, was present at the
conference."
Officers Demand Aar.
On the other hand. Gen. Constantine
BRIG. GEN. JOHN J. PERSITJXG, commanding the American expedition in
Mexico, will become a major general as soon as congress meets in December,
when president Wilson will send in the nomination. Gen. Pershing- is well
known to Kl Pasoans, as he was stationed here for almost two vears prior to
the Mexican expedition
nTIFWlN IGHMID;
HO SHOT H SHIP FOUNDERS
Rope Breaks While Miner
j TT t 7 T T rl I UH e otner nana, uen. uonsunune
IP r-iicfiiii I r I I An-ffi ' rArhnnmiln Ki-f nf stuff nf iha
i s'ienem, which was prepared " """-" H' I Greek army! and 506 officers, have
V;t,0,T- ,yrSft?r of the ExtilodeS' No RnnP: Rmbpn !,ised a memorial addressed to the
- can Smelting and Refining com- .- HLUUGi, iVt DOnCS DTOIen kinK demanding that Greece abandon
Ij its neutrality in the war. Early re-
ports utai oen. Jioscuupwnos naa re-
de r es of Gen
It-V Of MeTlco. It asserted, hart heen
Icrpj ed o the Imposition of inordi-
. -c v fcigh taxes on mined ore.
JARDSMAN SENTENCED
TO HARD LABOR, DISCHARGE
ColimnilS X. SI. SeDL 27. Frigate
Ijgh C-arK of company D, Second
Jasai.hii0e'ts ,nrantry, was sentenced
Irutsuy mi-h; to 6ix months hard labor
te dis"!niinir oarracks at Fort
3venwor'b, together with a dishon
orable cscrrge from the service.
CJ"k. short i after his arrival at the
rj.2er wro letters to a newspaper
' 'j'yke JTjss . frqjn which bis com -
i. came rhinring his company offi
ce's w.tb rec .cting the men and his
pa,t'n w't: appropnaung company
s He was tried by a general court
j.1 fo- conOuet unbecoming a
rr
f-e gua-Ismans sentence was ap
. d bv t e war department
IERE WILL BE NO WAR
WITH MEXICO. SAYS BAKER
Ovelacd fihio Sent 27. Secretary
if w Baker declared there would be
, Hr with Mexico, in an address
uesfiiy nicht before the National As-
loc a- on of Commercial organizations
"-aosTial preparedness."
He .ddEJ
e very day I entered office In
far -gton. Gen. Villa entered Colum-
CContbiued on Face :, CoL 6.
here, after he had lighted the fuse to
set off a powder charge 56 feet below.
tne rope Broke The charge exploded
before he could be rescued.
Rodriguez escaped without a broker
bone.
TORREON BUSINESS MEN
SEEK CLOSER RELATIONS
To urge closer cooperation between
chambers of commerce in the United
States with similar commercial bodies
In Mexico, Marcelina Horgado is in El
Paso as the representative of the
chamber of commerce of Torreon,
Mexico.
Mr. Horgado has been sent by Tor
reon business men and manufacturers
to secure through cooperation a closer
business relationship between EI Paso
and Torreon and will visit other
American cities for the same purpose.
ASK GOVERNOR TO END
PARALYSIS QUARANTINE
Austin. Tex. Sept. 17. A resolution
i was adopted today by the state board
of health, in session here, requesting
governor Ferguson td issue a proc
lamation revoking the quarantine regu
lations Which had heretnfnrA hMn ntil
in effect in Texas, governing infantile
paralysis.
It was disclosed that the regulations
had not been complied with, and also
that the epidemic which has existed In
New Tork has been checked.
signed, according to a Reuter dispatch
from Athens conveying the above in
formation, were premature.
VenlzeloM Kxplnlns Course.
Kliptheros Venizelos. former premier,
in a long message to The Times, giving
the reason for his action in going to
Crete as the head of a national de
fence movement, says he is acting in
The secret nolice have arrested
number of Villista suspects in Santa
"nsal'a on the charge of doing prop
aganda work and trying to make polit
ical capital out of the execution of
Roque Gloria in Juarez. Vigorous
measures are necessary in regard to
such propaganda, said Gen. Trevino. as
much harm has been done through the
circulation of rumors bv Villista agents
in various parts of the state.
Reports receive at headquarters here
from Cusihuiriachlc. Guerrero and
other western points, sav that every
thing Is ouiet there Chihuahua has
resumed its normal appearance.
GENS. PFPSHING AND G0N7ALES
MAY CONFER REGARDING BRAWL
Brig. Gen. John J. Pershing and Gen.
Francisco Gonrales may hold a confer
ence at Casas Grandes or Colonla Dub-
Ian while the commander of the
Mrs. Belzer Kills New York
er, Wounds Companion
and Ends Own Life.
Philadelphia. Pa., Sept- 27. The wom
an who shot and killed J. C Graveur,
of New York, seriously wounded his
female companion and then committed
Steamer Is Overwhelmed By
Seas
and Founders
Lake Gale.
in
Oswege, N. T, Sept. 37. Six mem
bers of the crew of the steamer Rober
val of Ottawa were drowned when the
vessel was overwhelmed by the eas
suicide in a prominent hotel here ear- during a storm and foundered In lake
ly. today, has been identified as Mrs. I Ontario, nine nlles from here Mon
day. It was learned today when three
members of the crew reached here ex
hausted in a lifeboat.
The boat was partly filled with water
and th bow was cut off. They said
they had been afloat for nine hours.
Harry Belzer, of New Tork. by a sis
ter of the dead man. This sister, Mrs.
Frances Apman, came here yesterday
and made the identification at the
morgue. The wounded woman was first
believed to be Mrs. Graveur.
Mrs. Belzer, who was known as Mrs.
Ledur. is believed to have followed
Graveur to this city from New York.
facto forces in the north Is jar the , He and the companion attended a
camp of the punitive expedition. An
officer from the field headquarters re
ceived a report today to that effect.
Cooperation for the prevention of
brawls similar to the one in the III
Valle saloon last Friday In which an
American and Carranza soldier were
response to a call of his countrymen, I killed is expected to be considered, if
because I am absolutely convinced
those who now really control Greek
policy do not honestly intend to arm
the country and drive out the Invading
Bulgarians."
o ltnolt Against King.
3L Venizelos says he advised from
the beginning of the war intervention
bv Greece on the side of the entente
allies.
"I can wait no longer." says M.
Venizelos "1 am not heading a revo
lution in the ordinary sense of the
word. The movement is not directed
against the king or his dynasty. It is
the last effort we can make to induce
the king to come forth and follow the
path of duty In the protection of his
subjects. As soon as he takes this
course we shall follow his flag as loyal
citizens and be led by him against our
country's foe."
BULGARS CLAIM SERVIANS
ARE FORCED TO RETREAT
Sofia. Bulgaria. Sept. 27. After 10
days of heavy fighting between Ser
vian and Bulgarian troops on the west
ern end of the Macedonian front, the
Bulgarians forced back their opponents,
(Continued on rase II. CoL 3.)
the conference Is held, the army officer
sai4.
Mexican consul Andres Garcia said
today he had no notice of a meeting
between the two generals.
ANGRY OVER ADAMS0N LAW,
CAR MEN TO DEMAND RAISE
St PauL Mlira.. Sept 17 Leaders of
, the Brotherhood of Railroajl cr Aren ' . .
J i it.. i .. . ' forerunner of a series of similar
-lin the northweet met In St Paul today i a,rlv , v. , .,r.fl
theater, returning to their hotel some
time arter mldnlrhL xnev went In
alone, according to the clerk and It is '
not known when Mrs. Belzer went to
their apartments.
An Viniir 1.1a. rcaitv nrar .iv.Ir.u1
by four shots. Rushing into the hall- I " "lscuse a plan to demand higher
way, they met the supposed Mrs. Gra- wages from the. Great Northern, the
eland f und" Graveur an k Hr Belzer ?" clfle. Canadian Pacific
Thousands More Are io Quit
In the Next Few Days,
Labor Chiefs Assert.
HOPE T0ASSIST
TRACTION MEN
Brewery Workers Fail to Go
Out On Call, Bui May
Quit Tomorrow.
t. fEW YORK. Sept 37. Fully 400.-
"V 000 trades unions raembers will
- have quit their employment by
tomorrow night according to union
leaders who said today 125,008 had quit
work this morning. The movement Is ,
; a sympathetic strike to aid the strlk-
ing traction workers. Six thousand
brewery workers failed to go out to
day, but union leaders said they would
walk out tomorrow. The poHce i a
report that the brewery workers had
decided to walk out after harlns made
a "gentlemen's- agreement- with, ih'eix
employers to return to work next
Monday.
Fnion leaders today ware a unit ia
declaring a fight to the finish la now
on. They said many thousands mora
union men would quit tomorrow and
still more in the next few days, vast
ly Increasing the number who have now
left their employment
03,000 To Go Out Tomorrow.
The figures given above were re
Ported to Ernest Bofcm, state organizer
of the American Federation of Labor.
The trades which have rui
j the atrike calL he said, are the United
Garment Workers, six building trades
-...u.. u,B paper hangers' union,
painters, house wreckers and a number
of smaller organizations. Bohm de
clared I63.W9 more would go out to
morrow. Strike Convention Meets.
The general strike convention, at
tended by representatives from the
international unions having headquar
ters In this city, waar called to order
here today, after considerable delay.
: oy .Hugh Frayne. state organizer of
the American Federation of Labor.
None of the leader irmM .i.. -
- UlAftB Jf,
statement as to what his own union
bad done or would do. Mr. Frayno
said he was satisfied with the situation
but declined to answer when asked
what the situation was.
teas Than 125.O0O Strike.
Far less than 1,0M union employes
responded to the call, according to re
ports received at police headquarters
today. The officials said, however,
that it was difficult to obtain an ac
curate estimate and declined to fix
a definite figure.
Railroad Machinist Strike.
The declaration of a strike by 1060
machinists employed In the shop of
the Ontario and Western" railroad was
announced today by the International
Association of Machinists. The. de
mands are for an eight hour day and
higher wages.
Union officials said the strike was a
dead In the room.
The two women were each about Ii
years old, while Graveur was appar
ently between 45 and 50.
GETS POSTMASTERSHIP;
l(Ul.ia ELfcUiUKAl. KAUfc
CAmtAZA DENIES REVOLT
OF AM" TREVIN'O FORCES
Washington. D. C Sent 27. Charles
A. Douglas, legal adviser of the Cnn- I
stltutionalists. has received a message 1 Austin. Tex.. Sept 27. Secretarv of
from Gen Ifmau in Tr1i), hA ri f - -,t- j.i ., ... .
-. . -r , "" '" " ; ou,e .t:Tv7 was larwra loamy Dy c?e- i
chief denies that any of Gen. Trevino's retarr Kirk, of the state Democratic '
iJS??? re,vo!ifd, dnJ"lnB the attack by , executive committee, that J. O. Wood. ,
illistaa in Chihuahua City on Hidalgo , of Wellington. Collingsworth county
naa resigned as presidential elector for
the Utb congressional district, and that
the committee hnv eleetel r1 C lbn.ll
also of Wellington, to be the nominee
and
the Chicago, Milwaukee and St Paul
railroads and recognition of the union
by the Great Northern. i
The car men, it is said, ware dis
gruntled over the passage of the
Adamaon law, providing an eight hour
day for trainmen, as they contend that
the law did not Include them.
strikes to be declared on all railroads
of the country and that the union
had established headquarters at Wash
ington for the purpose.
HOME FOR CHILDREN BORXS;
00 INMATES ARE RESCUED
Quebec. Quebec Sept 27. The Beau
mont home for children and aged per
sons at Lausson. was destroyed by fire
today with a loss of 55.008. The 200
i inmates were safely rescued.
day.
DVNIELS MIS U. . MUST RE
TUG I1ROTHER- TO MEXICO
Jackson. Mich. Sent 27. Setretarv ' for this nosition
of the navy Josephus Daniels told a ! Wood resigned because he was ap
large audience in the Masonic temple pointed postmaster at Wellington.
uere luesoay nieni mat the united i
States was under obligations to play
me pari oi -Dig nroiner" to Mexico.
QUITS MEXICAN CABINET.
Mexico City. Mex Sept 27. Felix M.
Palavacini. minister of public Instruc
tion, has resigned to become director of
Bl Universal, a morning newspaper.
Gen. Carranza has appointed his successor.
RETURN HIKE FROM AUSTIN
IS STARTED BY 15,000 MEN
Austin. Tex.. Sept 27. The twelfth
provisional division of the army, con
sisting of 15.000 men. which has been
encamped here at Camp Mabrv since
; last Saturday, broke camp this morning
; and began the. return hike to San An
1 tonio.
Fighters Suffer With Nerves;
Fullerton Dopes the Series
IF you are interested in sport, today's Herald is your meat "Tad" has a
splendid article, illustrated with his own drawings, on how prize fighters
and others have suffered with "nerves." It is unique and it is interesting.
If you have not started reading Hugh Fullerton's series, doping out the
world's series, do so now. His fourth article appears in The Herald today.
This will be a feature of The Herald, exclusive in the southwest, until up to
the time the world's series starts. Fullerton is the best known baseball writer
of toe present day and his articles are much ugBt by the best mscazines in
the country.
If it's sport you want, The Herald has it.
flbe Only Fair and Safe Plan: Universal Military Training and Service
