V
THE BARRE
TO
ONE CENT.
DAILY
t - . iin.nvi'L'm V CVHTI.' MlM.'lr 7 101ft. PRICE,
VOL. XX NO. 165.
, , " - ' I
THIEPVAL WON;
FRENCH MOVE
ON CHAULNES
Giving Germans No Rest After the Fall
of Combles, the Anglo-French Forces
L Are Hurling Their Offensive Ahead
With Tremendous Fury
FRENCH CAPTURED
FORTIFIED WOOD
In Move on Combles the British Took
Between 3,000 and 4,000 Germans
A Great Amount of Booty Was
Seized When Combles Was Entered
No rest is being given the Germans by the victorious Franco
British forces on the Somme front. The British capture of the
long-resisting Thiepval stronghold, following closely and unexpect
edly upon the capture of Combles by the combined allied forces,
was itself followed up last night by a new stroke on the part of the
French south of the Somme, where they captured a strongly forti
fied wood. Apparently this new drive is aimed at Chaulnes, which
bears to the southern end of the Somme line somewhat the relation
that Combles did to the northern sector.
In Macedonia the entente forces apparently are encountering
stiffened Bulgarian resistance, but Paris insists that the Serbians
are holding fast. The official reports from Bucharest take back
nothing of the claims made by the Rumanians of a notable victory
in the great battle last week in Dobrudja. The Rumanians and
allies, it is declared, defeated heavy forces along the Danube end
of the front, and then, while the rest of the line held fast, the allies
broke the resistance of the Bulgarians, Germans and Turks near
the Black sea and drove them back in disorder.
Greece apparently is on the verge of entering the war on the hide
of the entente. King Constantine is now reported .to have consent
ed to such action.
London, Sept. 27. Between 3,000 and
4,000 prisoners were taken by the British
in Monday's and Tuesday's fighting on
the Somme front, according to a. delayed
portion of (ieueral Haig's report of Tues
day night, "iven out here to-day. "The
battle continued violently during the
day over the whole front between the
Somme and Ancre rivers," the report
savs. "and our troops were successful
everywhere, carrying out their attacks (
most brilliantly.
ost Driiiianiry.
. . . . ... it
Combles, the pivotal point m me uer-
man line guarding the approach to Ba p-,
aum on the north and Peronne on the
south of the Somme front, fell yester
day before the terrific attacks of the
French and the British, the Germans
fighting to the death or surrendering
when there was no longer hope.
French and British troops swept in
from three sides after their capture, of
Jlorval and Fregicourt, broke through
the German defense, overrun the town
and carried all before them. This place
with its marvelous subterranean pas
sages and powerful fortifications had
been caught in the grip of the allies, who,
coming from the north and the south
had already advanced far beyond it and
cut off communication with the rear ex
cept a narrow strip, which was covered
by the allied guns. At the end of the
fighting, the town was filled with the
bodies of Germans who had fallen fight
ing, the French official statement says:
Both Thiepval, at the northwestern
end of the British line, and the fortified
town of Buedeeourt, northwest of Les
boeufs, have also fallen into the hands
of the British. Around the former place
many hard battles have been fought
since the inception of the great entente
offensive on July 1. General Sir Doug
lass Haig's men after capturing Thiep
val drove eastward and took the redoubt,
a strongly fortified position which lies
between Thiepval and the bend in the
British line at Courcelette.
BRILLIANT DRIVE
BY FRENCH TOOK
FORTIFIED WOOD
After Fall of Comblei They Also Extend
ed Their Gains East of That Place
Great Amount of Booty
Taken in Combles.
Paris. Sept. 27. A brilliant French at
tack east of Vemiandovillers has suc
ceeded in capturing a strongly fortified
wood, according to an official statement
yesterday.
The official statement last night an
nounced that Combles was entirely in the
hands of the Anglo French forces nd
that French advanced further north of
Fregicourt and along the Bethune road
pained additional ground. Last nights
statement is as follows:
"The battle eontinu-d successfully to
daj. North of the Somme the allied
troop increased their gains of yeter
day considerably, having attained with
in a few hours the objective assigned for
the second day of the struggle.
"This morning the French troop re
sumed the offensive and captured the en
tire aeet-ion of Oombles east and south of
the railroad. Our patrols entered in con
junction with the British rht wing who
wire cleaning vf the northwestern part
of Oombles. Shortly afterward the whole
village fell into our power.
"The booty captured in Combles was
larf c. The Germans had accumulated
in the subterranean regions of this place
an enormous quantity of munitions and
supplies of every kind.
"We collected 100 wounded Germans
abandoned by the enemy. Combles is
filled with German corpses. .
"This afternoon our troops develop
ing their advantages captured a small
ivnnrl nnrfrl nf FrecricOUrt. hilf WaV tO
IMorval and also most of the Btrongly
I . . . , . i. i .. i
........... ----- - , j
Wt.iflurl around between this wood and
- - r
the estern
"The number of unwounded prison
ore ianfnr1 hv the French since yester
day now reaches 1200. We have counted
up to the present 30 machine guns.
"On the rest ot me irom mere was
an intermittent cannonade.
"It appears from fresh information
that a Zeppelin which flew over the
Calais district on the night of Septem
ber 22-23 dropped 20 bombs, all of which
fell on waste ground a great distance
from the town. It is probable that the
7r.nolin cmitrbt hv the fire of our guns
.... f.-...., j ...
got rid of its projectiles in order to as
cend and escape.
SERBIANS REPULSE
THREE ATTACKS
BY BULGARIANS
Latter Made Violent Effort to Gain
Kaimacalan Height, According
to Official States at
Paris.
Fans, Sept. 27. The Serbians have
repulsed three violent Bulgarian attacks
on Kaimacalan heights, according to the
official statement dealing with the Sal
oniki front.
BRITISH REPOICE OVER THIEPVAL
Capture of That Stronghold Thought
More Important Than Combles.
London, Sept. 27. The capture of
Thiepval by the British and of Combles
by the combined Anglo-French forces is
regarded here as the most important suc
cess on the western front since the open
ing of the grand offensive.
The fall of the stronghold of Combles
was expected. For weeks it had been in
process of encirclement by the British on
the north and west and by the French
on the south and east. But the capture
of Thiepval has proved a genuine sur
prise, because it has been a stumbling
block in the advance of the British left
almost since the beginning ofthe offen
sive July 1, when a check at Gommecourt
was suffered.
Thiepval's fall gives to the Anglo
French forces the whole line of low hills
which slope to the plain upon which the
town of Bapaume makes the next forti
fied center.
The semi official accounts of the cap
ture of Ooftibles speak of the large num
ber of the garrison and the great quan
tity of war stores taken. Reuler's offi
cial correspondent says:
"This great success was won at very
small cost, thanks in part to the excel
lence of the artillery and in part to a
real collapse of the German defrn-e."
Refetwe is made to the apparent
GLAD TO BE
IN VERMONT
Vermont's Soldiers Returned
To-day from Mexi
can Border
ARE QUARTERED AT
FORT ETHAN ALLEN
Came in Three Train Sec
tions After a Week's
Trip
Burlington, Sept. 27. The 1st Vermont
infantry returned from Kagle Pass, Tex.,
this morning after being absent from
Vermont for three months, and to-day
the soldiers are occupying quarters at
Fort K.than Allen assigned to them by
Col. Joseph T. Hickman, commanding of
ficer of the 2d cavalry. The trip from
Kagle Pass occupied a week and the men
are all in good shape and glad to be back
in the home state.
The tirwt train reached the Burlington
station at 2 o'clock this morning
and was greeetd by hundreds of
people who had waited many hours for
the arrival of the soldiers. The men
traveled in tourint sleepers, in contrast
to the day coaches in which they rode
when leaving Vermont last June. The
regiment traveled in three sections.
Th mustering out of the troops from
the feal service will occupy at least a
'week's time, during which the men will
occupy the following quarters rt Fort
F.thati Allen: Officers, hand barracks; A
and It companies, K troop barracks; C
and D, L troop barracks; K and F, M
troop barracks; K, L and M, machine
gun barracks. Col. Ira L. Reeves and
his staff will be quartered in one of the
houses on officers' row. Capt. B. S. Hy
land, Maj. Carpenter, Capt. K. W. Gib
son, Lieut. Sheldon and Maj. Melville,
who are the officers commanding the l'HI
unassigncd recruits, have been occupying
one of the houses on officers' row since
the return of this detachment from Brat
tleboro on Aug. 31, that being the near
est point to Kagle Pass which they
reached.
During the time that the regiment re
mains at Fort Kthan Allen, there will be
a regular program of daily drills and the
men not otherwise engaged will be busy
at the target range. The state National
Guard rifle team, which will compete in
the national rifle matches at Jacksonville,
Fla beginning Oct. 2!, will be picked at
this time and sent to Jacksonville with
in a few days after the regiment is mus
tered out. Maj. Carpenter, who is one of
the crack shots of the regiment, will
probably command the team. Only one
battalion has been able to get any target
practice while, at the border, o that the
team will be considerably handicapped.
There will be nightly concerts by the
regimental band and a review in honor
of Gov. Charles W. Gates on Friday aft
ernoon. The KiO unassigned recruits who
have been languishing in camp all Bum
mer will lie assigned to companies to
day. As soon as the mustering out, which
will be done by battalions, has been com
pleted, the men will be sent to their
homes by companies. The mustering out
from the federal service causes the men
to revert automatically to their former
status as state militiamen and they are
still subject to federal as well as state
call. The process is practically giving
the men a vacation from active duty
until euch time as they are needed again
or until their enlistment term expires.
The members of C company were dis
charged upon their arrival at the fort
and are not subject to either state or fed
eral call, without re-enlisting.
MORE TROOPS ARE
ORDERED TO THE
MEXICAN BORDER
New Hampshire Will Send Field Battery
Connecticut and New York Also
Called Upon for Men.
Washington, Sept. 27. National Guard
organizations from New Hampshire, Con
.,ontl..tit Ww York and 10 other states
and the District of Columbia were or
dered to the Mexican border to-day by
the war department. On the arrival of
these organizations, 10.000 of the guards
men now on duty will be sent home. Bat
terv A, field artillery, of New Hamp
shire, will go from that state.
GREAT BRITAIN RELENTS.
Withdraws Regulations on Cigar and
Tobacco Importation.
Washington, D. C, Sept. 27. Great
Britain has withdrawn the regulations
for importation of cigars and tobacco,
which the American growers had declared
would ruin their business, and has au
thorized the import on the basis of
those of 1313, 1914 and 1915.
weakened morals of the German troops,
who are declared in some instances "to
have fled from their trenches, throwing
awar their rifles."
BULGARIANS WIN
IMPORTANT BATTLE
Are Said to Have Forced Back the Serbi
an Army on the Western End of
the Macedonian Front.
Sofia, via London, Sept. 27. After ten
days' heavy fighting between the Serbian
and Bulgarian troops on the wektern
end of the Macedonian front, the Bul
garians force,! back their opponents and
compelled them to retreat along the
whde front, it was announced official
lv to-day.
" Three successive French attacks near
Fiorina were repulsed, ami the French
are said t have suffered great losses.
I
1 . I I
21S FRESHMEN AT
STATE UNIVERSITY
Largest Class Ever Entering at Burling
tonGirls Were Winners in High
Standing List for Half Year,
Announced To-day.
Burlington, Sept. 27. The University
of Vermont opened this morning with
public exercises, including an address by
President Benton. Two hundred and
seventy-one entrance credit have been
filed, "of this number .VI were unable
to attend or failed to pan entrance ex
aminations; leaving 21H qualified for ad
mission. A few of these may not attend,
but some others will be registered during
the next week. This will be the largest
entering class pn record, last year's en
trance class numbering 100.
It was announced to-day that the Ma
bel Nelson Jacobs cup presented annual
ly to the fraternity having the highest
standing had been awarded to the Kap
pa. Alpha Theta sorority. The high
standing list was announced to-day for
the last half year of iMa lH. Among
those who received no mark below B
were Norma M. Perkins of Waterbury,
of the class of 1918 and Barbara S.
Brown of Waterhurv arV Roberta E. Da
vis and Mildred C. fCimball of Northfield,
of the class of 1919.
FEW UNIONS HAVE
JOINED STRIKE
IN NEW YORK
While Labor Leaders Said That Some of
the 230,000 Workers Had Responded
to the Call There Was Little
Evidence ol the Strike.
New York, Sept. 87. A general strike
of labor unions in -sympathy with the
striking street car men was supposed to
be effective to-day and although the la
bor leaders claimed that wine of the
2.V),000 workers had responded to the
call, there was little evidence tlmt the
strike was in progress.
Private canvasses among labor unions
reported that a) least ti failed to re
spond to the strike call this forenoon.
Only one reported, received at police
headquarter", was that 2"0 members of
the painters' union refused to rejsirt for
work.
THE BAPTIST POSITION.
Set Forth in Resolutions Adopted by
Convention at Chester.
Chester, Sept. 27 At the second day of
the convention, of the Vermont slate
Baptists here at which 11.1 Baptist
churches are represented, resolutions
were adopted thanking the people of
Chester and the Baptist church for hos
pitality and expressing in strong terms
appreciation of the work of Superintend
nnf W A Davison, other resolutions
also strongly approve of the work of the
Anti-Saloon league; regret tne incr-as-ing
frequency of diverse' and the increas
ing desecration of the Lord's-day ; favor
censorship of moving pictures; opiose
the use of any public funds for sectarian
schools; denounce Mornionisni ; affirm the
abiding principles of the brotherhood of
man; and, while appreciating the neces
sity of military preparedness, warn
against the shallow principles of patriot
ism that find expression in the false doc
trine of "my country, right or wrong," or
"my country can do no wrong."
DEATHS FROM PARALYSIS.
One at Fair Haven and Another at Sax
tons River.
Fair Haven, Sept. 27. Marion, eight
vonr.nlil daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Rob-
j - -
ert Owens of this town, died yesterday
after a week s llmcsa witn inianme ir
Upsides her parents the child
leaves one brother. The sixy was buried
at 1 o'clock yesterday afternoon, tins
is the onlv case of the disease which has
developed at Fair Haven, this fall.
Bellows Falls, Sept. 27. Health Offi
cer J. S. Hill has received a report from
the state laboratory of hygiene at Bur
lirnrtn (vmfirminp the belief that Gwen-
ln1vn Clouo-h. the two-andahalf-vear-old
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. William dough
of Saxtons River, who died s-aturoay,
was a victim of infantile paralysis. The
familv moved to Saxtons River last Wed
nesday from Lisbon, N. H. This is the
first death from the disease in southern
Vermont.
DIED SUDDENLY ON BOAT.
Judson Reynolds Was Prominent Citizen
of Alburg.
Alhurc. Sent. 27. Judson Reynolds, a
prominent citizen of this place, died sud
denly yesterday while crossing on me
boat from here to Rouse's Point. He was
til years of age and heart trouble is siip
to have caused his death. He left
here apparently in good health, but col
lapsed suddenly on the boat. wnen
Rouses Point was reached, a physician
was hurriedly summoned, but Mr. Rey
nolds was dead when he arrived. He
leaves a wife, nine children, and a sister.
The funeral will be held Thursday after
noon at 2 o'clock at the house, with
burial in the Center cemetery.
FOUR RECRUITS IN TWO MONTHS.
Middlebury Recruiting Station Closes
After Barren Work.
Middlebury. Sept. 27. The recruiting
station for the First Vermont regiment,
V. N. C, which has been maintained
here since July 23, was closed yesterday
and the memliers of the First Vermont
cavalry, who were in charge of the sta
tion, returned to Fort. Kthan Allen, ex
pecting to be mustered out in a few days.
They are Lieut. R. C. Knowlton. Sergt.
W. A. I'pham. who has been absent a
few davs on a sick leave. Corp. J. T.
Laughlin and Private .1. D. Barker. In
their two months' work here, they suc
ceeded in recruiting just four persons
who were accepted and taken into the
service.
200 INMATES RESCUED.
When Home for Children and Aged Was (
Destroyed. j
fi,,.tws- Sr.t. 2T. rVaumont Home fori
Children and -U'ed Persons at I-"s n !
was detroved bv fire esrlv this mornina !
. r ' . -f- 1 I
Tilth a IO OI lu
inmates ere rescued.
MANY HORSES
DESTROYED
In Fire Which Destroyed a
Livery and Garage
at Newport
TENEMENT HOUSE
ALSO DAMAGED
West Derby Hose Company
Rendered Good
Service
Newport, Sept. 27. Fire which was
discovered at 2 o'clock this morning in
the barn owned by II. B. Stewart of
Beebe, P. Q., and occupied as a livery
stable by F. W. Wheeler, burned the
barn and its contents, spread to a small
garage building housing two automobiles
and then to a three-story tenement build
ing, the top floor of which it burned. The
loss is $10,(HH) and the insurance is small.
Destroyed with the livery stable were
l.'i horses, several hogs ami large quan
tities of hay and grain. Besides the fire
loss on the top floor of the tenement
house, known as the Drew building, wa
ter caused damage in the tenements on
the second floor anil also the men's fur
nishing store -of W. J. Avery and the res
taurant of Richard Hirst on the ground
floor. Mr. Hurst owned one of the auto
mobiles in the garage and Mr. Wheeler
the other.
The origin of the fire is not known.
When 'he flames were discovered the en
tire top of the livery stable was burning
and it was not possible to save that
structure. The Newport tire company
was assisted by the West Derby hose
company in checking the damns in the
tenement building. The stable was lo
cated near the station and in the rear of
the Newport house. Mr. Wheeler has
conducted a livery stable here 20 years.
WILL BE GREATLY MISSED.
Charles E. Shepard Died in Marshfield To
day. Marshfield. Sept. 27. Charles E. Shep
ard, one of Marshfield's oldest and most
highly respected citizens, passed away
this morning about 8:80. He had been in
poor health for several months, but was
able to be out until within two or three
weeks. Since then he had been rapidly
failing from brain trouble.
He was 79 years old last April and has
spent most of his life in this town. He
was a veteran of the Civil war. being a
member of Co. C of the 13th Vermont
regiment. Being a great lover of music,
he taught singing schools for many
years nd was one of the original mem
bers of the band. He is thought to have
been the oldest choir master, band mem
ber and leader and auctioneer in the
state.
U and Mrs. Shepard celebrated their
58th marriage anniversary last April. She
and two children, V. M. Shepard. or
Montpelier, and Mrs. G. F. Bliss of this
place, are left to mourn his loss, lie
had a. genial nature, with a smile and
a pleasant word for everyone, traits
which endeared him to all. He was very
fond of children and will be greatly
missed by young and old in the communi
ty. The funeral services will be held from
his late home Friday at 10 a. m. The
friends request no flowers.
MANSFIELD WON
OVER COLE BY 9,874
Secured Democratic Nomination for Gov
ernor of Massachusetts A. B. Cook
Won Republican Contest for
Auditor.
Boston, Seupt. 2". Complete returns
from vpstenlav's nrimaries showed KredJ
erick V. Mansfield had won the Demo
cratic nomination for governor over tor
m.,r &.i;t fjpn Cbarlos H. Cole bv 0.874,
while Alonzo B. Cook was renominated
for state auditor in the only contest on
the Republican ticket over Joseph P.
Brown, by lti,158.
IN iPROBATE COURT.
Many Matters Handled, Mostly Appoint
ments. In probate court at Montpelier to-day
the will of Annabels MacDonald. late of
Barre. was presented for probate. Ir.
lion TV (;ront of Waterbury wa appoint
ed guardian of William D." Hills of Dux
bury in place of E. W. Huntley, deceased.
Pearl B. Daniels of warren settieo m
accounts as guardian for Klla Vinson.
K Coixlsneed settled the accounts
of Ruth J. Hewitt as guardian for (ieorge
W. Hewitt. John J. Sowles settled his
accounts as administrator of the estate
of Almon C. Downing, late of Barre. K.
M. Harvey of Montpelier was appointed
administrator of the estate of Sylvester
B. dimming, late of Montpelier. in
place of Sarah H. Cummings. Ira D.
n..rr.n irao appointed administrator of
the estate of Nancy dimmings, late of
Berlin.
L. B. BROOKS NOMINATED.
Democrats of Montpelier Name Him for
Representative.
ii . TVimu... t i(- aii,Mia hfl! in Mont
pelier last evening L B. Brooks was nom
iated as candidate for city representa
tive, the checklist being ued and voting
occupying from 7 to o'clock. There
, iu nam... hoforr the caucus at
the outset. Phil S. Howes and A. J. Sib
ley being the others; but Mr. Sibley
,kcd that his name be withdrawn. Mr.
PriM-ka i a well known merchant and
ha not heretofore figured very promi
nently politics. The caucus was made
neery by the refusal of Dr. W. J.
Tvndall the primary nominee, to run
for the office. William A. Lrd ie the
Republican notn.aee.
MILLAN JUMPED
FROM THE TRAIN
COMING NORTH
Former Barre Man Against Whom Judg
ment for $67 Was Found in County
Court Was Being Brought from
Boston by Deputy Sher
iff H. J. Slayton.
Returning from Boston, Mass., where
he located Fred A. Millan, formerly of
llarrc, and axainst whom a verdict was
rendered in county court Monday for i?ti"
iu favor of In in '.I. lioyce, Deputy Slier
in" H. J. Slayton discovered at Woods
wile, N. II., early this morning that Mil
Inn, .who had Ismmi surrendered by his
bondsman following the verdict and the
non-appearance of the defendant in court
when the case was tried, had jumped
from the train some time during tin trip.
The officer was unable to pursue an in
vestigation mill arrived in Montpelier at
7:. '10 o'clock.
It is said that Millan complained after
leaving Huston of feeling ill, and the
deputy sheriff's sympathy played an im
portant part in the escape, the prisoner
being iriven permission to go to a berth.
The oflieer kept watch the remainder of
the night and believes Millan must have
jumped through a window when the train
tdowod down at some station.
The case against Millan was tried on
Monday afternoon, the defendant not
being represented by counsel, and the
jury returned a verdict for the plaintiff,
who claimed damages as the result of an
accident which occurred over a year ago
near Montpelier Junction, when Millan's
automobile ran into a team occupied by
Mrs. Fred Lovely and Boyee. Mrs. Love
ly won her civil suit at the last term
of court. C. F. I-owe was Millan's bonds
man in the sum of $.V).
4,000 PEOPLE
ON FAIR GROUNDS
AT NORTHFIELD
Second Day of the Fair Brought Large
Number of People Some Good
Exhibits Shown.
Northlield, Sept. 27. A sharp patter
of rain this morning probably discour
aged many people from attending the
Dog River Valley fair to-day, but at
noon there was a crowd of 4.0(H) on
the grounds and more visitors were pour
ing through the gates in automobiles
and teams. This is the second day of
the fair and all of the exhibits entered
are on display. The Vermont forestry
department is making a fine showing and
there is a splendid exhibit from the
University of Vermont agricultural serv
ice. Evaporators and sugar making uten
sils are shown in great variety by a
Richford firm and an unusually good ex-
Ihibit of cattle and poultry has attracted
much attention. Judging of the several
evhibits is under wav and announce
nients were expected this afternoon and
to-morrow.
An attractive racing card was in pros
pect for the afternoon, but the number
nf atnrtcrs in several events had not
been fullv determined at noon.
A "KITCHEN QUARREL"
Is the Way One Attorney Charactemed
Case Coming from Barre.
Only the plaintiff and defendants in
the case of Henrietta (ia.zoni vs. Robert
and Lugi Col urn bo testified in the case
which was commenced yesterday after
noon in Washington county court, it be
ing a suit brought for personal trespass.
The arcuments were made this forenoon
by Attorney R. A. Hoar for the plaintiff
and H. S. "Jackson for the defendants,
and the jury retired before noon.
The jury brought in a verdict for the
plaintiff to recover $113.
The plaintiff testified that the defend
ants invaded her home last spring, a
quarrel ensued, and ended in the Colum
bos assaulting her, pulling her hair and
attacking her with a broom and stave
poker. In his argument, Attorney Jack
son characteriKed the affair as a kitchen
quarrel and asked the jury to treat it
as such. All of the parties involved re
side in Barre. The jury which heard the
case is as follows:
Alva Butler, Milton Clines. Charles
Bullock, W. L. Ston (Ju.v M. Hale, Al
vah Ncwhall, Robert Whalen. K. A. Urn
phere, C. P. Spaulding. Neil Tassie, J. R.
Bingham and W. H. Hill.
The trial of Charles Barclay vs. Wet
more & Morse (Jranite Co. was started
this afternoon before the following jury:
W. H. Angell, J. P. Hutton, (ieorge H.
Kmery, C. C. Simonds, Walter Wells,
Howard Curtis, (ieorge J. Long. W. K.
Hayford, J. H. Smaill. J. F. Moloney,
Edward Frost and J. B. Kendall.
Pursuant to an order issued last week
by Judge Frank L. Fish on a motion
made by State's Attorney Fred E. ;lea
son, the grand jury met in special ses
sion at 10 o'clock this forenoon at he
courthouse and will consider several mat
ters. The prosecuting officer was unable
to sav tq-day how long the session would
last.'
GASOLINE FLAMED UP.
And
Caused Excitement at 178 Barre
Street, Montpelier.
A pail of gasoline caught tire in the
sink of the house of K. V. Fae, ITS Barre
street. Montpelier, just lie fore noon to
day and a general alarm called the entire
Montpelier tire department to the scene.
Mrs. Rae had thrown a pail of water on
the gasoline and that only seemed to
make the firemen's job worse. But the
firemen soon had the fire out and only
slight damage was done.
COWS ON RAMPAGE.
Nason Parker of Brattleboro Gored;
Judge Foote of Middlebury Dragged. 1
Brattlcboro, Sept. 27. Naon Parker, i
.. . n .., t '
a well known est nramenoro larmer. i
is in a critical condition in the Melroe
ho-riUl from injuries received from I-
I .
ng gored by a cow yesterday atternoon. ;
His alslomen was ripid open. Little
hope of his recovery is enteminej.
Middleburv. Sept. -..slu Ige trrd -M. i
draegl-d about 'the" lot when the ..iincal
became frightened. He finally land-! in
a barbed wire fence sn 1 was severely j
cut about the face, hit the jii l-e kept J
Lis grip and conq.nrcd the animaL
DR. J. A. WARK
CITY DOCTOR
Appointed Last Night to
Succeed Dr. P. S. Duffy,
' Who Has Left City
R. D. CARPENTER OUT
AS REGULAR FIREMAN
His Resignation Accepted
Many Routine Matters
Attended To
One resignation accepted an sVS mil
lion of an appointment by t' o or fig
ured in the week's accuir s.N , of bus
iness which the alderr js? .n sac ted ab
their regular meeti' night. Fol
lowing the depart' N Dr. P. S. Duffy,
now located in Ne K, N. J., the office
of city physician was declared vacant in
lieu of an official resignation. On the
mayor's appointment of Dr. Joseph A.
Wark, the aldermen confirmed the nom
inee last evening by the vote of -4 to 2.
The appointee will accept the office and
assume the duties at once. As Dr. Wark
enters officialdom, R. D. Carpenter, sec
ond assistant engineer of the fire depart
ment and for several years a regular fire
man, goes nut, his resignation having
leen accepted on the motion of Alderman
Bruce and seconded by Alderman Rey
nolds. Mayor Gordon missed the first session
in his administration, his absence being
due to illness, but his nomination of Dr.
Wark was made in the form of the cus
tomary communication and balloting pro
ceeded as usual. The new city physician
is a graduate of the medical department
of the University of Vermont, has seen
considerable experience in metropolitan
hospitals, and enjoys an excellent pro
fessional reputation aa one of the young
er practitioners in Barre.
Fireman Carpenter's resignation car
ried with it the reqnest that he be re
tained as second assistant engineer and
in the event of the request being turned
down, that he be permitted to enroll as
a call fireman. Action on the requests
was deferred. The resignation becomes
effective this evening at 6 o'clock. Crit
icism of the practice of resigning on
short notice was heard before the alder
men turned to other matters, but in th
case of Mr. Carpenter it was explained
that the fire committee was aware of his
intention some little time ago.
An alert street committee gathered up
the loose ends of departmental business
by filing a number of reports, favorablo
action being taken in the following mat
ters: Monger Deep request for permis
sion to extend building. Deep abandons
plans temporarily; Summer street sur
face water, three receivers authorized :
Beckley street sidewalk, refilled where
washouts occurred; protest of K. A.
I.ane. committee holds that travel on
Batchelder street docs not warrant wid
ening the roadway; low hanging Isjughs
on poplar-lined Maple avenue, boughs
lopped off wherever necessary; Blackwell
street walk and roadway, repaired; Nel
son street walk, curb set and walk con
structed; abandoned Church street school
sign, transferred to proper location in
Mathewson school vicinage; Cleveland
avenue sewer, engineer estimates cost of
extension at $.'5W and committee recom
mends thai nesessary steps be taken to
complete work.
Mrs. R. Broggini appeared to reiterate
her grievance over the alleged narrow
condition of Sixth street. When the
street committee reported that cndi
tions of travel on that thoroughfare do
not warrant an extension, it was sug
gested that stone chips be used to fill in
a gully in the narrow district and the
report'was returned to the committee for
consideration.
Chief Sinclair came through with a re
port on doings in the police department.
In one month there were 35 arrests on
the following allegations: Intoxication
2S, breach of the peace 2. operating auto
carelessly 2, operating auto without
lights 1," operating auto while intoxicat
ed 1, begging L 'l'h(' report was for the
month of June. ,
Mrs. C. E. Bolster asked permission,
through the building inspector, to re
shingle a stoneshed off Depot square and
a brick house on North Main street, but
the inspector stood out for fireproof roof
ing and explained that both buildings are
in congested sections when queried by
the aldermen. The inspector's recom
mendations are to be followed if the
buildings are reroofed. Other permits
were granted as follows: John Kennedy,
to erect a henhouse on Summer street:
Mrs. R, F. Walker, to build a garage on
Abbott avenue; Charles R. Ord. to build
a barn annex on Cherry street ; Alex
Wilson, to build a house annex at 134
River street: Mrs.' Ida Pearsons, to re-
shingle a roof on KImore street.
nor, mis w ere assign
to the
recom-
flWiiiir applicants, favorable
mediations having leen mane im
1 ' S ' . , 1...
the in-
.,...,r- Harrison l.ranite io.,
engine
' .. , . I.- r I V. , ia offlCI
lights;
nomrr ruis x .... .. ,. , . .
Parker, house light: A. H. Buell .hotel
lights; Joseph I-adrie and C. h. Bond.
1 .. , 1 i- m- Aror l bouse
I .-, showcase licnis; i..
E.
garage ugius. v. - -lights:
Joseph C.apit. house lights; M. 4
B 1.. A P. Co.. to install 17 domestic
. ... 1 1 " 'IT - : v. -
meters.
i nn appropriaiiiii:
$100 for
r:i- .i,mi
land damage in i"- i --i-- .
T?.""mTv,.r was authorized to sign a
Ilon,i i,emnif irs he tate against ex-
- ... l,a 4 v-nt Tntlt nf S
rttse ai-mima - -
,!arro ,h,l, in the Austme institute i
r.ratticls.rn, '' the uul provision
I1 . . ." . I . A . . . 1 1 rt . tor f,,r.
tf-at the p.irenis ,".'. -
N-nd lor tne n.
Warrants were appro iy.r '..mrn.
teil s: .i" .
!..! l,is ... ,;i,nn-, street, sprinkling, sewer, surface
j . cr. sidew alk. bridge and culvert and
jhlth account-: water department par-
roll
I
JHlIll- o ('Al I :n-ni . , nii.
(Continued on c'gHh page )
