44 Write it on your heart that
every day is the best day in the
year." Emerson
" The burde becomes light .
ew .an
that is cheerfully X' Ovid
VOL. XXXV, NO. 52
HYDE PABK, VERMONT, WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1910.
$1.25 A YEAR
This blue X means that your
subscription expires with this
number and that no more
papers will be sent you unless
your subscription is renewed.
Renew at once so as to receive
next issue of oaper.
Mrs.G,A. Barrows
Has returned from market
and will Open her
SATURDAY
Sept. 30, 1916
A full line of the
LATEST NOVELTIES
IN MILLINERY
.Special Attention Given to Making-over
Brooklyn Street Morrisville, Vermont.
Everything Way Up
" Now is the time to save every scrap
of old Junk. Telephone or drop a card
to O. K. and yon will receive prompt
service and highest prices.
OSCAR KAHN
Morrisville's Original Junk Man
Telephone, 25-5. Lake Street, Morrisville Vt.
BUSINESS NOTICES.
Wanted A Girl for General Housework.
Lock Box 291, Morrisville.
For Sale. A few thousand feet of No. 1
51-nch Clipboards.
C. H. A. Stafford & Sons, Morrisville.
Cash Paid. Highest Cash Price paid for
Calves, Cheap Cows, Bulls and Hogs.
Tel.124-31 John Miner, Hyde Park.
Notice.- -I have quite a lot of stuff to dispose
of : Stove Wood, now nice and dry; new Traverse
Sleighs, upholstered, good ones; a cheap miggy:
Cream Wanon: Double Driving Harness; sing
Driving Harness; nice Jersey Cow and two Heif
ers: Mare. 7 years old. with Colt by side; Mare, 1
years old; Lumber Wagon, with pole and thills;
Set of Truck Wheels and Axles to fit the same:
several Stoves; Water Tank Heater; Potash Ket
tle; Scales, and matyy other things, all for sale
cneap. w. a. nwtuM.
Cady's Falls, Vt.. Sept. 25, 1916.
FOR SALE
The Building Committee of Mount
Vernon Iodge offer for sale the
HOUSE ON THE MATTHEWS LOT
on Portland Street. Morrisville, former
ly occupied by M. P. Maurice. This
house will be sold as soon as possible to
make room for the new Masonic Tem
pie, which it is expected, will be erected
on this site.
For information apply to O. A. Slay.
tou or J. H. Atchinson.
A. H. Slayton, Secretary.
Some pertinent facts about the New
Ford, and automobile buying, is dte
cussed by McMahon bros in this issue,
Read their adv. on page 5.
MILLINERY OPENING
THURSDAY, SEPT. 2816
Having recently returned from the Boston markets, I am prepared for tb
Fall and Winter trade, with a complete assortment Up-to-date Millinery
for Ladies and Children.
A cordial invitation is extended to you to ipspecl my line.
Remember, I carry the New Fame, Labelto and Latona Corsets in all
the new models, priced from $1.50 to $12, and will be glad to fill your or
der at any time. N
MRS. C3-IEO. iE. TUFT
Messer Block, Main Street, Morrisville, Vermont.
AT
Your Fall and Winter Cloth
ing is Right Here Ready
for You
The goods in which we are showing big
assortments and selling right now are:
Women's Fall Suits,
Women's Coats,
Women's and Children's Rain Coats,
Girls' Coats and Dresses,
Women's New Dress Skirts,
Women's New Waists.
Boys'
Men's Fall Suits,
l t7.ii c..:j.
ran ?ui 13,
i
Men's Top Coats,
Men's and Boys' Mackinaws,
's and Bovs' Fall Hats and Cans.
Men's, Women's and Children's Sweaters,
Men's, Women's and Children's Hosiery, and
Underwear,
Great variety of Bed Blankets at the old
prices.
EVERYTHING REASONABLY PRICED.
A. J. SALEEBY
THE STORE THAT SAVES YOU MONEY.'!
JOHNSON, jJ j VERMONT
MORRISVILLE
Mrs. C. J. Lease bus been in Barre for
the past few days.
Miss Beatrice Morrill was confined to
her home by illness several days the past
week. , .
Guy O Neil, who has been in town a
few days, returned to Fort Ethan Allen
Thursday.
Miss Nancy Kaiser of Manchester, N.
H., was a guest several days the past
week of Mrs. Hattie Small.
Mr. and Mrs. Clarence Webster of
Lyndonville were guests Saturday and
Sunday of Mr. and Mrs. S. L. Ring.
This office enjoyed a very pleasant call
last Thursday lrom Miss Oohen of the
Burlington Vermont Advance office force,
Mrs. K. E. Barrows and Miss Belle
Barrows are spending the week with the
former's daughter, Mrs. H. H. Butter
field, in North Troy.
Mr. and Mrs. Asa Gates were guests of
the latter's parents in Johnson several
days the past week. Mr. Gates has fin
ished work for C. H. A. Stafford & Sons.
Union Savings Bank and Trust Co. are
redeeming revenue stamps which have
been bought of them. Anyone having a
supply left after this law was repealed
will be glad of the chance to get them
converted into real money.
A. A.Niles enjoyed a few days' vacation
from his duties as Town Clerk the past
week and visited bis daughter, Mrs. A.
W. Spaulding in Montpelier. He re
turned Monday noon. Mrs. Ila Niles
Jackson had charge of the office during
bis absence.
Elmer A. Smaller, the Republican nom
ipeefor Representative from Morristown,
filed his expense account previous to last
Friday. The document reveals that his
nomination cost Mr. Smalley nothing.
George H. Thomas, the Democratic can'
didate made no return.
There will be a meeting of the Lamoille
County Cow Testing Association Tues
day evening October 3, at Grange Hall,
Morrisville. Important matters will be
discussed and a good speaker will be
present. It is hoped every member will
be present and help make it an interest
ing meeting,,, ;,
Mrs. C. H. Slocuirj. whose condition
has been improving of late, went to Bur
ington Tuesday, for" treatment at the
Hayes sanitarium. She was accompanied
by Mrs. H. I. Fisher, who went to see
her son, H. H. Fisher, who has been re
ceivmg treatment there. Mr. rjsber s
school at Pottstown, Pa., begins Oct. 12,
and he hopes to be able to resume his
work at that time.
F. G. Fleetwood and W. . M. Sargent
left Saturday night on a trip to the Pa
cific coast. They will visit several west
em states, including Montana and Ore
gon on business pertaining to banking
interests. They will be absent about
three weeks. They were accompanied
by W. F. Churchill and E. A. Smalley,
the former going as far as Montana and
Mr. Smalley leaving the party at Chi
cago.
The Earle store has on display begin
ning yesterday morning, tor one week
only, a large assortment of ladies' skirts
made up in the most approved styles and
from the very latest fabrics, such as fancy
tripes and plaids. They are of the very
best garments so that any lady wishing
something out of the common, no two
alike, can be suited. They ask your in-
pection, as such skirts are not to be
seen in tnis town very otten.
An enjoyable party was held at the
home of Mr. and Mrs. Clement F. Smith
on Dorchester Heights last evening,
when the members of the Progressive
class of 'the Methodist Sunday school, of
which Mrs. Smith is the teacher, and
their wives were entertained. About
fifty were present and the occasion was
much enjoyed by all. Mr. and Mrs.
Smith received the hearty congratula
tions of those present, as yesterday was
the birthday of Mrs. Smith and the pre
vious dav the 33th anniversary of the
marriage of the worthy couple, Re
freshments were served.
Infantile Paralysis Question
Owing to the case of infantile paralysis
in Elmore, a meeting of the Board of
Health of Morristown was held, with
two of the local physicians and a few
citizens last Friday and the question ol
closing the schools and other public
places was discussed. It was finally de
cided to close the chuuches and local
theatorium, but allow the schools to
continue, all of the five physicians of
Morrisville to be at the village schools
each morning for a period of two weeks
to examine every pupil with the under
standing that the parents should have
the option of keeping their children at
home providing that they confine them
strictly to their own premises.
Monday morning only 44 per cent of
the children in the grades were present,
but today about 60 percent were back
in school. Nearly the full attendance is
reported in the Academy. While the
merits of the examination as connected
with the infantile paralysis question is
open to discussion, there is no question
but what as a general proposition the
medical examination is a fine thing, al
though more or less expensive.
G. F. Smith Sells Viele Farm
Clement F. Smith has sold his farm on
the Wolcott road, known as ithe Viele
farm, to George 0, Young of Lenoxville,
P. Q the deal having been closed and
papers signed yesterday. The consider
ation was $20,000 and possession will
be given October 1. Forty head of fancy
stock, five horses and all the farming
tools were included in the sale. Mr.
Smith bought the farm nearly two years
ago, since which time be has invested
several thousand dollars in repairs, new
buildings and equipment, until today it
is probably the best equipped farm in
Northern Vermont. The new machinery
cost $2000, including a traction engine,
etc. A reservoir was built on a high ele
vation behind the farmhouse, which pro
vides the best of water and excellent fire
protection. The house has been thor
oughly remodelled and an acetyline
gas lighting plant installed in the house
and barn. Clement would like to have
kept the place until his alfalfa demon
strations of the meadow had been com
pleted, but as Mr. Young has been con
nected with the Dominion Experiment
farm, be hai left the work in good hands
In the dent Mr. Smith took a good
farm'In Hard wick, known as the Russell
place, and his son-in-law, Roy Macomber,
will probably move there.
THE EARLE STORE
New Fancy Laces
We are showing new Laces in gold and silver
for fancy trimmings. They are the very newest things in their line.
Apron Ginghams
A nice assortment of new patterns of the al
ways staple Ginghams for Aprons, Children's Clothing, etc.
New Silh Waists
Aie also among the new comers. They are
made up from a good heavy silk and washable. The most economi
cal waist worn at the present day.
New Coats and Suits
You should see the new Winter Garments
good, warm Coats just the thing for 'the cold winter before us.
Come in and see the goods, and especially the attractive prices.
New Kiddie Cloths
, In new patterns, 32 inches wide just the ma
terial for children's school wear, Ladies' house gowns and a variety
of ufces.
GEORGE F. EARLE
Morrisville,
Vermont
Friday, September 29, 1916.
The Latest Designs in Fall and Winter Millinery,
MRS.
Foss Block, Main Street,
J. P. ROY
Morrisville, Vermont
Drowned at Panama Canal
Capt. Edward A. Hawley, formerly of
Stowe, who belonged to a regiment do
ing service at'Empiie City, Panama Ca
nal Zone, was drowned Sept. 21st. His
body was so badly decomposed that bur-
la! there was Decenary H wai an
adopted son of M. T. Burns of Stowe.'
Post Office to Enforce Rules
Postmaster Gates has been notified
that alj postofhee box rents must be paid
when due. These rents are due at the
beginning of each quarter. It has been
the custom to hold them open for thirty
days or more after they became due
which an inspector has pointed out as
entirely against the P. O. rules. On ac
count of a call down from the Depart
ment the local omce will be obliged to
put all delinquents mail into general
delivery after box rents become due
They also have orders not to write
money orders after 7 o'clock p. m.
Successful Librarians' Meeting
A successful meeting of the Franklin,
Grand Isle, and Lamoille County libra
rians was held at the Morristown Cen
tennial library last Thursday, twenty-
two librarians and other library officials
being present from out of town. The
morning was given -up to the carrying
out of the program as given in this
paper last week, those taking part being
Miss Fanny Fletcher, of Proctorsville;
Mrs. H. E. Straw, of Stowe and the Rev.
F. R. Keeler, of Wolcott. Through the
courtesy of the trustees of the local li
brary, dinner was served in the vestry of
the Congregational church. The topics
of the afternoon were taken by Snpt. C.
D. Howe, of Morrisville and Miss Evelyn
Lease, of Montpelier, Miss Rebecca W.
Wright, secretary of the free public library
commission, conducted a nelptul round
table conference during the last period.
Interesting and helpful discussions fol
lowed each paper. The several papers
showed careful preparation and the
meeting was most helpful and successful.
Miss Fanny M. Fletcher, a daughter of
Ex.Gov. Allen M.Fletcher, drove her own
car to Morrisville to attend the meeting.
Goodell Beleyou
Elibu E. Goodell of Harding, Mass.,
formerly of Elmore, a son of Mrs. C. G.
Ellsworth, and Miss Doris F. Beleyou of
Troy, N. Y., were united in marriage
Sept. 17 at Harding, Mass. Both are
nurses in the Medford State Hospital of
that place, friends in this vicinity will
extend best wishes and congratulations.
HYDE PARK
Mrs. Lizzie Bailey of Craftsbury is vis
iting her brother, F. B. Noble.
Filling silos and potato digging are
the main farm attractions these days.
Mr. and Mrs. Page USord returned
Monday from a week's visit at Fairfax
Miss Natalie Noyes, Hugh Scofield and
Benjamin Hulburd have entered the U,
V. M. s
Miss Constance Crosby of Amherst,
Mass., is visiting her brother, Supt.
Crosby.
The finishing touches are being put up
on the Library and it will soon be ready
for occupancy.
Clay Fisk of Akron, Ohio, is spending
a few days here with his parents, Hon
and Mrs. H. C. Fisk.
Tracy and Clarence Badger attended
the funeral of their schoolmate, Charles
Dole, at Danville to-day.
Some very tall corn, 12 ft. 10, from the
Hyde Park Inn farm, is on exhibition on
the veranda of that hostelry.
Mrs. C. M. Tenney, acepmpanied by
Dr. Stevens, took her eleven year old
daughter to the Fanny Allen Hospital
last Snnday, where she is to undergo an
operation for appendicitis. ' '
Miss Bernice Atwell, a niece of Mrs.
Lizzie White, has been appointed Deputy
Town Clerk.
Miss Alice Page went to Rutland Mon
day, where she joined her father, both1'
leaving there for a few weeks' sojourn at
some southern point.
Miss Lei a E. Collins, who has been at
Laconia for several weeks, is now stop
ping at Breezy Hill, where she will re
main until December, then again taking
up her work at Burlington.
F. P. Hill's birthday occurred yester.
day and in honor of the event several of
his friends at the Inn presented him with
a box of cigars. There were several in
troductory selections bv the famous
quartet.
Mr. and Mrs. L. B. Thonet, of Holyoke,
Mass., who are guests at Moses Good
hue's, went Saturday to Franklin, Mr.
Thonet having in mind purchasing a
farm in Franklin. They are traveling in
a Willys-Knight auto.
The Rally Sunday of the Congregation,
al Sunday School will be observed next
Sunday morning Oct. 1, at 10.45 a. m.,
by special exercises in which each class
will have a part. A cordial invitation is
extended to young and old. In case of
rain the Rally will be posponed to Sun
day, Oct. 8.
James George of Philadelphia, who has
been spending some time here, left to-day
for Boston, accompanied by his niece,
Mrs. James Jewett, who will visit rela
tives there and in Taunton before return
ing home. Mr. George it a native of
Stowe and this is his first visit to Ver
mont in fifty year.
Next Sunday evening at 7.30 in the
auditorium of the Congregationalchurch.
Sheriff Tracy of Montpelier will speak on
"Prison Work." This gives the oppor
tunity to hear a man who has become ex
pert in the remaking of the men whom
the courts have put under his hands and
whose reputation has reached beyond
the United States. '
Death of Mrs. Reba Bowles
Mr. ttnd Mrs. H. L. Delano were called
to Sugar Hill. N. H., last Sunday after- County VV. C. T. U. Institute
noon, Dy tne critical condition ot their
daughter, Mrs. Harold Bowles, who has
been in a very serious conditio since the
birth of a daughter on Tuesday, Sept. 19.
A telephone message from Mr. Delano
last night stated that a specialist had
seen Mrs. Bowles yesterday and gave
them much encouragement, but this
morning a oispatcn was received an
nouncing her death. Funeral services
will be held from the Cong'l church in
Franconia at 10:30 Friday.
Mrs. Bowles was formerly Miss Reba
Delano of Elmore. Besides the husband
and parents, she is survived by three
brothers, Lewis, Howard and Nat Dela
no of Elmore and one sister, Mrs. C. E.
Pierce of Fitz william, N. H.
k the Bkr Corner Store
HYDE PARK
A W. C T. U. County Institute will be
held Thursday of this week with the
union at Johnson, at the M. E. Church.
It is expected that representatives will
be Dresent from Wolcott, Morrisville and
Jeffersonville and department subjects
will be considered. Plan to attend and i
oarry a basket luncheon.
Oldsmobile In Morrisville
H. A. Smalley & Co. have taken the
agency tor tne uiasmoDiie, one oi inc
best-known and most reliable medium
priced, eight cylinder cars on the market.
The have
are always
tions. For particnlars concerning this
car. see page 2,
Something New Something Doins: all the Time
A nice line of Fruit, Pickling Onions, Peppers, etc., just in.
Wearing Apparel arriving dailv. We can save you money on Shoes.
Our Bread talks for itself.
BARGAIN DAY SPECIALS
Saturday, September 30.
lb. Eclio Coffee 19c ; S liars Ark Soap 2oc ;
G lbs. Sweet Potatoes 14c.
a handsome car on hand and I (Weil Frilit JUI'S QliartS C9C per (10ZM PilltS GoC.
pleased to give demonstra- We nQW waiting to wait upOQ yon.
HYDE PARK.
A. J. CLARK.
