First
Maui County Fair!
Nov. 30, Dec. 1 and 2
Boos! The
Maui County Fair
VOLUME XXIII.
WAILUKU, MAUI CO., HAWAII. FRIDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1916.
NUMBER 36
ffl&vA
Cooper Slayer
r Saves His Neck
John Ginza, Confessed Murderer, Is
Allowed To Plead Guitiy To Sec
ond Degree Murder Insanity De
fense Is Feared
To clear the criminal calendar of
the circuit court. It was necessary to
have only two Jury trials, and one of
these was an appeal case from the dis
trict court. Most of the defendants
plead guilty, among whom was John
Ginza, the confessed slayer of George
Cooper of liana.
Attorney Murphy was appointed as
counsel for the Japanese, and he "of
fered to have his client enter a plea
of murder in the second degree.
County Attorney Bevins agreed to ac
cept this plea, which was done. Al
most immediately Judge Edings sen
tenced Ginza to life imprisonment in
the Oahu prison. Ginza was taken
to Honollu to begin serving his sen
the following day.
The acceptance of a plea of second
degree murder was something of a
surprise, as it whs thought that the
county attorney would refuse to ac
cept it. Also, some believed that
Ginza's attorney would make an in
sanity defense. It was partly on ac
count of the belief that it would be
Impossible to secure a conviction of
first degree murder, that Ginza was
allowed to plead guilty to a lesser
charge, it is said. The physicians
who examined Ginza, it was thought,
would have testified that it was pos
sible his brain had been effected when
he was a child by a hard fall. The
Japanese has a large cavity in his
forehead as the result of the fall.
Ginza killed the Hana bookkeeper
a little over a month ago after lying
in wait for him all night. His mo
tive was a five year old grudge over
a small sum of money of which he
thought he had been, defrauded.
Francis B. White, an American of
Dutch decent, who before his arrest
for passing forged writing posed aa a
federal inspector of hulls and boilers,
plead guilty and was sentenced to six
months imprisonment and to pay a
fine of twenty dollars.
Julio Santos and Antone Garcia, a
Spaniard and Porto Rican, who had a
knife and razor fight, were both fined
fifty dollars, after pleading guilty to
assault.
The first criminal jury trial was of
Frank Mendes, a Filipino indicted for
having sexual intercourse with a Pu
unene Portuguese girl under fifteen
years of age. The trial occupied most
of Monday, during which one of the
small sensations was the reading of a
letter which the mother had written
to the defendant. The Filipino was
found guilty and sentenced to not less
than three years imprisonment.
In the appeal case of Ten York,
charged with having opium in his pos
session, the appeal was dismissed and
the fine of $100 upheld.
Work Is Started
On Fair Grounds
Work haa heen started on the con
Btruction of the stalls for the livestock
and the coops for the poultry exhibits
at the fair grounds. T. Burlem is in
charge of the construction work and
has already built about sixty stalls.
He will also begin the construction of
a number of tables for the use of other
exhibitors in the tents and buildings.
At tho meeting nf the fair commit
tu ViolH voatpriiav afternoon. Dr.
Fitzgerald stated that thirteen cups
for awards to the exhibitors oi nve
otnxir YiaA nlronriv heen secured, and
that ha expected to get a number of
others. The cups will all be similar in
design, and will have the names of the
rtrtnutnra InRp.Hhed on them.
The vetinary also stated that he had
received definite assurance rrom Man
ager Carter that the Parker ranch
would have an exhibit at the Maui
county show. This will consist princ
ipally of white face cattle, it is
thought.
It is estimated that with both the
Maui and Hawaii live stock exhibitions
that 150 stall will be needed on the
fair grounds.
Manager Cameron is in Honolulu
this week, where he is reserving space
for the Honolulu exhibitors wno warn
to be represented at the Maui fair.
Dr. Raymond Is
"Stumping" Holokai
Dr. J. H. Raymond, the lone Demo
cratic candidate for election as sena
tortor from this island, is making a
campaign trip to Molokai this week.
He went to the settlement at Kalau
papa on the Mikahala yesterday, where
he expected to remain for about two
hours. Last night he intended to go
to Halawa and today to address meet
ings at Waialua and Pukoo. Tomor
row evening he will speak in the Pio
neer theatre in Lahaina.
Hawaii As New
York Knows It
Things Hawaiian as Interpreted by
New York show producers is typical
ly evidenced in a program of the
Empire theatre of that city, which has
recently been sent to J. Garcia, by a
friend who is visiting the metropolis.
In the fifteenth scene of a musical
comedy show it is claimed that the
set" is to represent "Wakaki, Ha
waii." Some of the music numbers are
ns wonderful as is this new spelling of
Waikiki. Among these are the fol
lowing: "Hulu Hulu Dancers, A Ha
waiian Hans, Wakaki Billie, Vi'.alai
Luke and Dancing to a Ukalali Band."
That "Vilalai Luke" ought to be al
most as wonderful a treat for the
people of the metropolis as is the
Ukalali Band."
Republican Rally
Is WeHAttended
Kuliio, Breckons And Smith Make
Characteristic Party Talks To At
tentive Wailuku Crov-d Ray
mond's Defeat Urged By Speakers
While there were no great outbursts
of enthusiasm, even when Frince Ku
hio was speaking, the attendance at
the Republican rally held In the val
ley Isle theatre last Tuesday night
was large, and an attentive interest
in the words of the speakers was
shown. Prince Kuhio, W. O. Smith
and R. W, Breckons were the speak
ers. On the platform during the meet.
ing were all of the Maui candidates
They were the candidates for election
as senator Harry Baldwin and George
Cooke, and the representative candi
dates, Waiohole, Brown, Joseph,
Walsh, Paschoal and Tavares.
A touch of oratory was added to the
meeting by the introductory remarks
of W. R. Crockett, who acted as chair
man. Charles Wilcox was Hawaiian
interpreter for the English speakers.
None of the local candidates made
talks, altough it was announced that
they would address a Wailuku meeting
before the campaign was over.
Smith was the first speaker and he
devoted himself to advising that the
islands continue to elect members of
the party which has always stood for"
a high protective tariff for sugar
upon which, he said, the industrial
life of Hawaii depended. He made it
a point, he said, of wanting protect-
tion carried to such an extent that
even the small Industries would be
given protection, so they could be dev
eloped. Smith declared it wrong to
believe the sugar tariff was only for
the good of the sugar plantation men,
"It effects you and everyone of us," he
affirmed.
Attorney Breckons awoke interest
by telling the crowd a story or two and
by cutting analogies regarding the De.
mocratic party and its policies.
"Thank God For Wilson," was his
battle cry, which he cailed a text. He
admitted that he had taken the text
from the Democratic speakers on O
ahu, but that his interpretation of it
was quite different. He referred to
the policy of the United Staes in Mexl
mo and the Lusitania sinking with a
(Continued on Page Six.)
License Transfer
Is Granted Today
At a session of the Maui Liquor
License Commissioners today in the
Town Hall, the transfer of the Ah Nim
restaurant license at Waihei to Ah Hu
was approved, after a hearing. This
was after an agreement had been
reached between W. R. Crocket, ad
ministrator of the Ah Nim estate, who
also applied for a transfer. Ah Hu's
aDnlicatlon was for another license. !
The agreement between the administr
ator and Ah Hu is understood to have
been the payment of $170 to the estate
for the liquor now in stock.
The Grand Hotel made application
for the privilege of keeping an ice
chest with beer on the lawn of tho
hotel, from which customers could be
served at the tables In the yard. The
commissioners frowned upon the ap
plication, making it plain they did not
favor serving liquor away from the
hotel building. The Grand Hoto! then
withdrew its application, before the
request was voted upon.
W. A. BALDWIN IS LOW
BIDDER ON ROAD CONTRACT
W. A. Baldwin was the, lowest bid
der for the construction of the Haiku-Pauwela-Kuiaha-Kapakalua
road this
morning, when the bids were opened
in the oince of the loan fund commis
sion. His bid was $3,350; time fifty
days. The other bids were as follows:
Hugh Howell Engineering Company,
$4,980; time seventy-five days; J. C.
Foss Jr., $4,350; time ninety days; J.
A. Ahleon, $6,215; time seventy days.
The engineers' estimate was that it
would take seventy-five days to compl
ete the work. The length of the road
to be constructed is 350 yards.
"Roosters" Will
Crow For Maui
So-Callcd "Ad Club" Adjunct Of Cham
ber Of Commerce Is Organized To
Noisly Boost For This Island
First Appearance At Fair Banquet
"Maul Roosters" is to be the sug
gestive If not phonetic name of the
jollification and noise making adjunct
of the Maui Chamber of Commerce In
the future, according to a decision
which was reached last night when the
organization come into life at the
home of D. H. Case, where most of
the members of the Maui civic delega
tion met to organize.
Every since the Hilo trip, the more
youthful and evhuberant members of
the Chamber of Commerce have felt
that Maui should have a "yell section."
For like of a better name, it has been
referred to as the "Ad Club Section,"
as it was hoped to rival the Honolulu
organization of that name, when it
came to making a noise and having a
good time.
At the meeting last night the sug
gestion met with hearty approval of
all, and steps were taken at once to
draw up a set of by-laws and to organ
ize. It was also decided to appear in
full uniform at the Maui County Fair
banquet on November 9th, and "make
a noise."
The by-laws, while semi-humorous in
tone, give an idea of the intentions, a
designs and purposes of the "Roost
ers." The by-laws are given below:
Name: Maul Roosters.
Object: To boost Hawaii in general,
and Maul in particular.
Pledge: Every Rooster chosen by the
Maui Chamber of Commerce as a
delegate to the Annual Civic Con
ventions pledges himself to at
tend all regular sessions of the
Convention . and crow first, last
and all the time for Hawaii and
Maui. s
Officers: A Dictator, Assistant Dict
ator, Musical Director, Confidence
Man, Ink Slinger, and Office Boy.
Membership: Only members of the
Maui Chamber of Commerce, who
sympathize with the Roosters and
pay one dollar into the Treasury,
shall be eligible to membership.
Applications : Must be in writing, con
tain a copy of these by-laws, sign
ed by the applicant pledging sup
port to same, and endorsed by at
least five members.
Meetings: Both regular and irregular,
upon call of the Dictator, or on
demand of ten members.
Quorum: A quorum shall consist oi
one or more oiucers ana any
number of the hoi pollie.
Funds: All funds shall be handled
with care.
Clothing: Purity being the emblem of
this Order, every well regulated
rooster shall, when on dress par-
(Continued on Page Six.)
-t--'''-T-
Mrs. S. D. Heapy
Has Passed Away
Mrs. S. D. Heapy, well known and
well beloved by many Maui residents,
passed away suddenly at the Queen's
hosnital in Honolulu last Wednesday
afternoon. Mrs. Heapy came to Maul
about twenty years ago with hsr son
Stafford, her father, J. A. Moore, at
nn time nrineinal of the Union
School, and her sister. She lived here
a number of years and until after the
death of her lather, wnen sne remov
ed to Honolulu.
For many years she was the matron
of the Kailani Home Tor girls in Ho
nolulu, but recently she has been
teaching at Mana, Kauai, where she
was taken ill and afterwards taken to
Honolulu for treatment. News of her
,ioot)i P9KIA na mirnrise to her Maui
I friends, for she was always apparently
in robust health, in spite or ner adv
anced age, who was between sixty-nve
and seventy yeai'3.
a wireless ws reee'ved this morn
ing by Rev. Doli;i from her Hon, that
inWii oemeterv on Sunday aftern.-vn at
the body wou'.d bo interred in the Wat
ku cemetery on Sunday afternoon at
3 o'clock, as it was her wish that she
be buried beside her father and sister,
who both have last resting places in
the Wailuku burial grounds.
Miss Clemens Making
Haleakala Crater Tour
Miss Mildred Leo Clemens, tho
cousin of the late Mark Twain, the
humorist, is making a six-day horse
back trip over and around Haleakala.
She Is accompanied by Young Walker,
the guide, of Paia. She started on
her trip last Thursday morning and
intended spending'one n'ght at the
Haleakala rest house and then going
through the crater to Kaupo. From
there she will come back to central
Maul by the way of Hana and Nahiku
over the ditch trai!. Before starting
on the east Maul trip. Miss Clemens
was for several days the house guest
of Mr. and Mrs. J. Walsh at Kahulul.
Banker Not Sure
Of Hughes' Victory
Far from convinced that the Republ-
enn candidate for president is sure
of election, C. D. Lufkln, cashier of
the Wailuku National Bank has return
ed from two months and a half tour
of the United States.
The banker was asked: "Did you
come back convinced that Hughes
would be the next president?" Enigm
atically, he answered: "I wish I were."
Afterwards, Lufkin said that he felt
sure the presidential race would be
very close, with the results still very
much in doubt.
Mrs. Lufkin did not return with her
husband from the states and will not
do so for anothed month or two. She
is in the east.
Tuna Club Plans .
For Its Opening
Caramodious And Convenient Quarters
AtKihei Will Be Meeting Place
For Sportsmen From All (her The
World Has Sixty Members
,The Hawaii Tuna Club will formerly
'pen B.irraciK'.a Lodge on November
1st, in ample time to get everything
n running order to accommodate
lociS' members and the many visiting
devotees of rod and reel who are
liooked to arrive from the mainland
and England for their favorite sport
In Hawaiian waters.
Barraruda Lodge i the new home
of the Hawaii Tuna Club, at Kihei, in
the center of the famous Molokinl
voters and formerly the man
VT?r's residence of the Kihei planta
tion. It is a well built house, with a
wide cemented approach, located In
fine grounds, from which a mngni-
ficient view of Haleakala, the West
Maui mountains and a wide expense
of water is obtained.
The house contains a number of
large, airy bedrooms, with closets,
bath room and showers, kitchen and
three pantries and servants' quarters.
The club room and dining room extend
the whole length of the house. There
ts also a ten foot veranda on three
sides of the building.
The dwelling stands ft short distance
back from the wharf and within easy
access of the beach, .wh'ch is consider
ed one of the finest in the territory.
A start has already been made to lay
out tho grounds in an artistic man
ner. The club home has been completely
screened, and a number of changes
made In the interior which wRl breat
ly add to the comfort of the guests.
The rooms have been newly furnished
throughout, and the club room made
most attractive, the latest periodicals
and other paraphernalia for the sports,
man's enjoyment. The culminary de
partment will receive particular at
tention, fish dinners being made a
specialty. The wide verandas will be
utilized for sleeping quarters, which,
with the regular bedrooms, will prov
ide sleeping accommodations for
twenty members.
There will be power launches, samp
ans and other boats always on hand
at the pier at Kihei, for the convent.
(Continued on Page Six.)
Will Honor New
Regimental Officer
A banquet is to be given this eve
ning at the Maul Hotel in honor of F.
F. Baldwin, who has just been com
missioned colonel of the 3rd Regi
ment, N. G. H., to succeed Harry Bald
win who recently resigned. To make
the appointment. Brigadier General
Johnson paid a visit to the Maui regi
ment this week.
The banquet is also to be in the
nature of a reception for Capt. A. R.
Harbold of the United States Army,
who has been detailed to duty with the
militia regiment on this island. Capt.
Harbold is married and has three sons.
His family will come to Wailuku to
live as soon as he can get a suitable
home.
Fifty covers are to be laid for the
banquet tonight. All the guests, will be
the commissioned officers of the Na
tional Guard on Maui. The banquet
will be served in the new banquet hall
of the Maui Hotel.
WIDOW GETS INSURANCE
Ey a directed verdict, it was held
in the circuit court yesterday that a
life insurance of $1,700 should be paid
to Mrs. Maria Carvalho, by a Honolu
lu Portuguese benevolent society. The
litigation arose because the adult
children of her deceased husband, by a
former wife, had claimed the insur
ance because she was living apart
from her husband at the time of his
death. It was not proven at the trial
that this was through any fault of
hers. D. H. Case represented the wid
ow and Attorney Murphy the children
of the deceased. A. 1). Castro of Ho
nolulu "came to Wailuku to also repre
sent the society.
AMERICAN-MEXICAN
WAR PLOT DISCLOSED
Secretary Baker Says Villa Troops Paid In Silver
By Conspirators Wanting Trouble With Mexico
Secretary Lansing Claims Disclosure Not
Political Move-British Make Unique Violation
Of Neutrality Contention Horrible Hospital Fire
In Quebec
WASHINGTON, October 27 A plot against the peace of Uncle
Sam has been revealed here by a plan which was formed to drive the
United States into war with Mexico.
Secretary of War Baker discloses conspiracy, which shows that
the Villa army is being paid in silver by interests who want the Unit
ed States to go to war with Mexico during the Wilson administration.
He refused to comment on the statement, however.
Secretary Lansing, said, while giving the news out to the public, that
it was not a political move, but that he wants the conspirators frightened
by publicity.
Heavy skirmishes between the Carranza and Villa forces are re
ported from near the Hearst ranch.
General Pershing has been warned to prepare for a bandit raid.
LONDON, October 27 Baron Beresford and Syndenham an
nounce that the United States violated neutrality when United States
naval vessels picked up survivors of vessels which had been sunk by
German submarine off Nantucket. "Quiet true" says Earl Gray, "but
the matter is entirely between the United States and Germany."
SARNHANN QUEBEC, October 26 Six children and five adults
were killed when hospital of Elizabeth burns. Twenty persons were
inj'ured from j'umping. Assistants and nurses carry many bed-ridden
patients to safety.
HONOLULU, October 27 Raw sugar prices now top all records
since annenxation. Cables from New York report that the Hawaii
basis is $133.00 per ton.
Matteo Snadona, world renowned painter, has come to Honolulu
to paint for his customers. He is accompanied by his wife, who was
formerly Miss McFarlane, of the Honolulu family of that name.
Japanese voters are not anxious to control the islands politically,
tays A. K. Ozawa, the only Nipponese-American lecturer. He predicts
a big increase in Oriental American
PARIS, October 27 Arsitide Briand has been put forward by a
royalist organ for a seat in the French Academy. The royalists are now
supporting the once hated minister.
PARIS, October 28 The French are steadily advancing in the
direction of the shattered quarters of Fort Vaux. Berlin admits loss.
The Rumanians are struggling to hold back fierce foes. Russian
launch infantry attack at German trenches in Valhynia, but are beaten
back with severe losses.
The French in Macedonia are pressing the Bulgarians hard and
report the capture of two small towns.
WASHINGTON, October 27 Hughes speaks in Boston and is
cheered by an immense crowd.
BERLIN, October 27 Austrians accuse Serbians of making use
of inhuman methods of waging war.
PARIS, October 27 Letters of French soldiers now amount to
more than 450,000,000 pieces per day.
LONDON, October 26 Twelve survivors of the mine sweeper
Genista have been found.
PARIS, October 26 A new drive of the French, began at Verdun
two days ago, successful from the moment the infantry leaped from its
trenches and charged at batteries of the enemy, is still being prosecut
ed relentlessly. In three hours on the first day, French regained ground
which it had taken the Germans four months to wrest from them.
Battling has continued night and day since first started and the French
are now within 500 yards of Fort Faux, one of the main supports of
Verdun. They have recaptured Douaumont and the fall of Fort Faux
is momentarily expected.
BERLIN, October 26 Further attacks were made today at Fort
Douaumont and also at Fort Faux, but were repulsed. The Germans
evacuated Douaumont, prior to its capture by the French.
Von Mackensen' successes at Dobrudja continues. His troops
gained ground on the road to Sinaya.
The Russians have made an advance against German artillery fire.
The bridge across the Danube has been dynamited.
WIRELESS MARKET QUOTATIONS
SESSION 10:30 A.
Sugar Price at N. Y. 96 degrees.
t'wa Plantation Company
Hawaiian Commercial & Sugar Co
McDryde Sugar Company
Oahu Sugar Company
Olua Sugar Company
rioneer Mill Company
Waialua Agricultural Company
Honolulu Brewing & Malting Company.
Mineral Products Company...'
IIouolu'u Consolidated Oil Company...
Lngels Copper Company
Mountain King Mine
Hawaiian Sugar Company
Onomea Sugar Company
Hawaiian Pineapple Company
Oahu Railway & Land Company
Mutual Telephone Company
Hilo Railway (7 per cent Pfd.J
Hilo Railway (Common)
San Carlos
Honokaa
MARKET COMMENTS
SAN CARLOS NEW BASIS TODAY.
citizens.
M. October 27, 1916.
6.65
36.00
50.3-8
11.5-8
3ZA
16.00
Ui
2i.'A
2i.y4
1.23
3.40
3.80
0.65
54.00
160.00
20.00
8.00
250
14.00
12.50
