1 r-1
MAILS
From 'Frisco-
Manoa, Oct 31.
For "Frisco
Wilhelralna; Nov.
From Vancouver
Niagara, Nor. V.
For Vancouver -..
Makura. Not. 10.
. O V
I 111 , I
1 .
i I
1 1
1
Kvening .Bulletin, Est 1S82, No. 661?
Hawaiian Star. Vol. XX IV, No. TC'S
12 PAGES HONOLULU, TERRITORY OF HAWAII, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 27, 191G. 12 PAGES.
PRICE FIVE CENTS
ITES'IMIMMS
l 7 I " III
"PO
V
3
:Rf:hO TfflSil.'
lV;LLE::3T0LiV
LIOIiTEii RHUS
Directors Meet and Send Letter
to Charles R. Forbes Answer
ing .Proposal to Proceed
.Without Wajting . ;t ,
CITY ATTORNEY SAYS
DELAYS UNNECESSARY
"If, By November 27; 1916,
the Rapid Transit Has Not
Moved Its Track, the Board
- (Supervisors and the Sup
erintendent of Public Works
Will" "
The following letter relative to the
proposal to have the Rapid ..Transit
Company lay a liflhter rail.waa writ
ten to Charles R. Forbee this- after-
' noon: ' ,
"Hor. Charles R. Forbet, Superinten
dent, Publie Works. Honolulu. .
"Dear Sir: We beg to acknowledge
receipt of , your letter of October 25,
. " 1916, .orde'lng , the . Honolulu Rapid"
Transit & Land -Company to relocate
Its tracks on Kaiakaua avenue within
30 days, in accordance with the tines
and grades shown ott Sheets 1 to 5, in
elusive, of Grade Map No. 13, approv
ed by. yourself and adopted by the
. City and County of Honolulu as the of-
J- - i I '
nciai graae ot mkkiui avenue irom
Era road to Kapiolanl park.',
The .Rapid Transit Company has
already voluntarily agreed lo relocate
Its tracks in accordance with said
lines and grades.
"The type of rail to bo used in fu
ture censtruction by this company,
as approved by the Public Utilities
Ccmmics.an.ana. yourself, Js c?"eral
ly known as the Trilby", typ.
Promptly on receipt of your approval
.ef that type on September 14, ths
- Rapid Transit Company cabled an or
cer for U.ese rails for the Kaiakaua
sve-ue work. At that time it was a
. vel-knovn fact that rails could net
be cttained fcr -nearly a year owing
to conditions cn the mainland. The
best terms the company could obtain
was for June delivery, reaching Ho-i-ofutu
approximately six weeks after
' chi-ment. Under these circumstances,
ss ycu state in your letter, 'it will be
' Impcr-.ifcte . to lay a permanent
track in the new ...location specified
above' in the period of thirty days.
"The Rapid Transit Company, how
ever, can obtain from the Pearl Sar-
bcr Traction Company a. lighter type
cf rail, known as the 'T rail, weighing
73 pounds per yard, now on hand in
' Honolulu and which would be avail
able for installation on Kaiakaua ave
fje, providing the Public Utilities
, iemmission and yourself should ap
prove of that type for the new loca
tion on Kaiakaua avenue. This typ f
rail could be installed as soon as the
"ties, which were ordered . on July .7,
arrive. The company is advised by
. Lewe'rs & Cooke, through whom the
order for ties was Flaced, ' that ths
ties will arrive in December.
. "Very truly yours; -
"ALFRED U CASTLE,.
"Secretary, Honolulu Rapid Transit
&. Land Company." ".' f ....
- "Bctray&l of the city's rights" will
be the result if the; supervisors pass
a resolution , appropriating money to
help pay the expanses of the Rapid
Trrsit -Conippny in .relocating its
tracks ca Kaiakaua ayenue, according
to the emphatic opinion of the city
attorney's office, and that office is
determined to, stand .by its guns .
City Attorney Crown backs up his
assistants, Deputies Cristy and Car
den, in the1 protest they have already
made against the supervisors' passing
such a resolution. In a -comprehensive
statement to the Star-Bulletin
today the city attorney declares fiot
only that the .supervisors cannot right
fully pass the proposed resolution.' but
that there is no necessity for delay if
, the appropriation is not mafle. He also
charges that 'the Rapid Transit wants
some act by the city which, will tie
its (the city's) hands for all time."
His statement, ia the form of a let
ter to the editor, is as follows:
- "Honolulu. October 27, 1916.
4 The Editor of the Star-Bulletin. Ho
nolulu. "Dear Sit: In an editorial In the
Star-Bulletin of October 1:6, 1916, you,
as editor of the paper, state that you
and the public want to know' what Is
blocking progress on Kaiakaua ave
nue. ; . '. . :;
"As city and county attorney I take
pleasure in explaining the precise
stand of this office and the reasons
therefor, and I request that you give
the same amount of publicity to this
communication as has been given in
reporting the attitude of the Rapid
Transit Company. "' -. '
""It Is conceded that public interests
demand the moving of the Rapid Tran
sit tracks to the center of Kaiakaua
avenue to conform to the contemplat
ed improvement ot that avenue by the
city. The permanent reconstruction
of Kaiakaua avenue is only the be
ginning -of similar reconstruction of
main thoroughfares throughout t the
city. As on Kaiakaua avenue the
tracks of the Rapid Transit Company
are on the side of the 6treet, on' King
street,'- throughout KaimukI and at
(CcntinveJ cn paga two)
News
" ""VOTE FOR ME IS VOTE
UT1CA, N. Y4 Oct. 27. Candidate Hughes spoke here today before a
large crowd. ,"A vote for me is a vote for fatting peace," he said.
, FRENCH LINER WITH PASSENGERS ON FIRE , ' .
NEW YORK, N. Oct. 27 The French passenger liner Bordeaux,
with 183 passengers, bound for New York, is rushing for he Azores with a
fire in her hold, according to Lloyds' agency. She' Is expected -to reach
Fayal this afternoon. ' ' . ..-.,. ' . ' . , . . . "
GERMANY PLANS ANOTHER BIG WAR LOAN ;
BERLIN, Germany, OcL 27. A new war credit bill for 12 billion marks
was submitted to the Rekhstag.todiy. Count, von Roedern, secretary of
the treasury, said that the total .German war credits are now 52 billion
marks. . . - -' . '.." . :- .,':.;';''.
SIX MONTHS ANb $100 FOR SELLING B002E .
James Field, colored, who was convicted last fall on a charge of sell
ing liquor without a license anfc sentence-, suspended fpr ,13 months, was
brought before Judge Ashford this afternoon and, sentenced to serve six
months in Oahu. prison and pay a fine, of $100 and. costs. The- mittimus
will not be issued until November 11. Field has been released on his own
recognizance. . . " 1 . . i - .. . -.,' '
SECOND BATH HOUSE THIEF APPREHENDED '
: Probation Officer Joe Ieal tbla afternoon arrested a young Portuguese
boy who Is charged with, having entered dressing rooms at the Public
Baths, WalkikL and rifling articles of clothing left In them. The boy told
Leal that he had been carrying on his pilifering since school started. An
other Portuguese boy, charged .with
cer Leal on Thursday. r.
TRIES TO CARRY AWAY
A Hawaiian boy, hardly more than 12 years old," was brought into
Juvenile court this afternoon charged with theft He was arrested by a po
lice officer who turned aim over, to Probation Officer Joe Leal. It is al
leged that the boy attempted to carry away an entire housey piece by
piece, which was being built in PuunuL The authorities say hestarted tak
ing hinges and nails and wound up by carrying off doors, windows and lum
ber. "The case will be heard tomorrow. -
1,-1. TO LOWER
STOCK SHORTLY
Maup-MolokairLanar'falfle
Shippers to Benefit When .
"'"Supplement is Issued';
As a result of hearings which the
public utilities commission . has been
conducting concerning, rates charged
by the Inter-Island on cattle shipped
from island ports to Honolulu, the
company is preparing a supplement
to tarllf No. .2, which Vent into ef
fect September 1 and which cansed
vigorous protests from cattle shippers
because of the higher rates charged.
Vice-President J L. .McLean of the
Inter-Island today gave the Star-Bul
letin details of several reductions to
be made in the supplement; reduc
tions which the company is; making
because it realizes there are certain
ports where easier cattle shipping con
ditions warrant lowering the rates.
The recent new tariff made a uniform
increase" effective, to which shippers
made immediate objection, . appealing
to the commission to lower rates from
certain ports. V- :
In brief, the supplement to be Is
sued as soon as the commission con
cludes its hearing of the company's
side of the case and the Inter-Island.
determines how other rates are work
ing tut and if any adjustments are
needed In them, will mean, a reduc
tion of 10 per cent from the r rate
charged by tariff No. 2 on live stock
for slaughter from all Haul ports to
Honolulu except Kahului, where the
reduction will be 121-2 per cent On
Molokai the reduction on live stock
for slaughter will also be 10 per cent
except at Kaunakakai, where the cut
will be 25 per cent. Hawaii ports,
. . , - .- .' '- ' ';.v
, (Continued on Dacca- two) .
Hawaii S scutes ;
Little Dinalit
Sugar Factors Company Has in
Transit and to Be Shipped
'More Than 10,000 Tons
Hawaii sugar companies that are
members of the Sugar Factors Com
pany will benefit from the present
price of sugar or from a continuance
of it to the extent of over 10,000 ions.
Figures on other plantations or com
panies are not readily obtainable but
they are not large. ' '
There is now afloat or in transit on
the 'American mainland to eastern
markets for delivery sugar to the
amount of 4500 tons and afloat for the
San Francisco market 2400. tons on
account of the Sugar Factors Com
pany. To be shipped between now
and the middle of November there
will be 732 tons in two vessels and
from November 15 for the ensuing
three weeks about 3000 tons. ; TJbi?
gives figures of 6900 tons afloat ot In
transit, 722 tons for early shipment
and 2000 tons for Uter sbipmefltjiy
the Sugar , Factors Company in all
1 0,732-tona This -will clean up, so
far, as that company is concerned, the
crops of its member plantations for
this year. .
At the quotation for raws of Thurs
day the value of tTs output, allowing
for the discount made by the company
for immediate cash, is between $1,400,
000 and $1,500,000. . "
RATES ON LIVE
At
A
' . . ( ".' r '5
FOR PEACESHUGHES
a similar offense, was arrested, by Offl
;
HOUSE, PIECE BY PIECE
Attorney General Advises Board
Cannot Grant Exclusive .
; tfsq of Pall tand r r
' That the board of commissioners
of agriculture and forestry has no
authority to grant right for exclusive
occupation and possession of land
within a forest reservation for a fixed
period is the gist of an opinion fired
today at the meeting of , the commis
sioners: by Attorney-General J. M.
Stainback. . -k ', ' . I .
Inquiry has been made of the attor
ney whether or not the commissioners
have power to grant to Lord-Young
Engineering Company, Limited, li
cense -to -use 2.94 acres"Tf land for
a long period of years, the land lying
within the " Honolulu watershed for
est reserve in the neighborhood of the
Pali for, "use in connection with the
building and use of. an aerial tram-
way. ,' v;;.. .; ; : : ; -;':..- t
"I am 1 Informed," says the report,
''Ibat lbe, purpose for which the use
of the land in question' is desired re
quires' Jhat the applicant shall have
the exclusive possession and occupa
tion of said land 4 for a period of at
least 10. years, . If Jha is so then, any
agreement would yery likely 4e con
strued a jleasi and not a, icense
The opinjon ia written, by Deputy
Attorney s William ,Heen,'. iand ".ap
proved by 'the attorney-general. Ut
goes on o poiaVP."1 Ahat the. project
which: the! applicant has in mlnd4-an
atrial tramway over, the Pali-rwill re
quire quit d an expenditure of money,
making likely tis insistance for an ir
revocable license, and that such a li
cense cannot b granted.
MEW YORK STOCK j
MARKET; TODAY
FoIIowtna are the clostna price b(
stocks en the New 'York market t
daysent by the Associated Press ever
the Federal Wireless:
;'-VT--vrv-,r;-: YesUr.
- W Today, day.
Alaska Gold ....... .. 12'2 1Z
American Smelter ..... 110 110
American Sugar Rfg...-1212 122'a
American jTeL A Tel ..133 133 -Anaconda
Copper ...... 95'2 94
Atchison ' , .i . ... . . . . . 1 07J2 -i 1 07
Baldwin Loco. 84 S3j
Baltimore. Ohio.;..:. S8 ' 83
Bethlehem Steel ...... 650 642
Calif. Petroleum .... .". 23Y2 22i
Canadian . Pacific . . . . . 174 1742
M.& SL P. (St Paul) 94 94H
Colo. Fuel & Iron....... MVi -54
Crucible Steel ... . . . . . . 87?a 86?
Erie Common 39 3S3i
General Electric 182Ji 183'2
General Motors . ... . . . 4. . 835
Great Northern Pfd. . . . 118 1 18'2
Inter. Harv N. J....... 118 VI
Kennecott Copper ...... 54's 53
Lehigh ,R. . R.. . . . . -. - . 84 83
New York Central...... ; l&3'a 1tf?i
jPjjnaylvania . . i 58 57Ti
Ray - Consbl. . . .". . . 25 574
Southern Pacific .. . . .101 100?a
Sudebaker ; ... .134 13?
Tennessee Copper 2s &Yt
Texas Oil ............. 22Sj223:
Union Pacific .......... 1502 151
O. S. Steel...,..:...... 119 H8'8
U. S. Steel Pfd..,..'... 121 4 121V.t
UUh ' . . i . . ........ .... . 105 101 Vz
Western ITnion ; w 103 1028
Westinghouse .......... 63 ; 64,
hasn't right to
Lease pah site
Ctd. fEr-dlvldend. Unquotsd.
IPiz!! S" d;i
WiilP tlAVOC
Admiralty Reports Show That
in September Tonnage of
More Than 254,000 Sunk
. (German Official.) v
4 .BERLIN, Germany. Oct. 27 4
4 The - German admiralty reports
that during September 141 hos- 4
f tile trading ships," of a total of -f
f 182.000 tons, were sunk ; or
brought In by the. submarines of -f-
f the Central Powers or lost by
f striking mines.- .
, Thirteen captains of . hostile
4 ships have been . taken prisoner
4 and three cannon captured from 4
armMl gtpamfni. . Pnrthprmor
4 72,600 tons, bfive been sunk for
f carrying contraband. , - . : .'
ft 1 1 f,t; t t T4
Complaint Reaches Medical So
ciety Which Will Consider it,
at Meeting Saturday
Capt John B. H. Waring, UnlUd
States .medical 'department whose
trial on a charge of malingering was
the center 1 of injterest some months
ago in local 'army circles, the captain
having refused duty on the ground
that Hawaiian, sunlight affects hU
eyes has fned cbm plain ts or, charges
against! Dr. James A. Morgan, well
known; optiician of' this qity, accord
ing, to a report which ; reached ;the
Star-Bulletin today from an authorita
tive source. .' - " j -'
' Capt ' Waring has sent his com
plaints to the Medical Society of. Ha
waii, it was stated," and the. matter
will be (Jlscussed at, a closed meeting
of " that organizatloii' tomorrow after-
noon.. - - :' . ;-: ,,--
It Is believed , that the complaints
are madd in connection with Ir. Mor
gan's part as a witness In the recce t
courtmartlal ot Capt Waring, the re--sitlta
of which are still unannounced
by army authorities. 1 v v f
rr. E. D. Kilbournd or the Medical
Society, when asked of the meeting
called for : tomorrow afternoon, re
fused today to state what matters will
be under discussion, lie said, how
ever, that representatives of the gen
eral public will not be allowed to at
tend. , . : .; ; ,: . ' ' - -" i
"I will say nothing: whatever regard
ing it," was. the doctor's only response
to several questions' put to him. "The.
meeting will not be public,' hut will
oe a m!;ie . ramuy gamenng. 01 our
own.; : ;-' '- : - '-. ..''Vv"" ' '
(Gennn rjfficiif) ' '
GERMAN HEADQUARTERS, Oct
26. In the western . arena, on the
Somme front today, bur fighting artil
lery effectively held the trenches and
battery estabUshmeqta' of the enemy
on both: sides of the river. Our po
sitions on the north bank are covered
by the enemy with strong fire-waves
which, prepared far their partial ad
vances but none of the attacks suc
ceeded : They only resulted In new
sacrifices of .the enemy's troops. ,
,On the Crown Prince's front at Ver
dun the French attack day before yes
terday , northeast of Verdun was , fa
vored by. misty weather and the ene
my advanced beyond our 'destroyed
trenches to the fort . and village - of
Douaumont This fort has been evac
uated by the garrison. We did not
succee l in reoojupyiug thq work -before
the enemy but our troops took up
prepared, positions close- north, and
in the majority of cases it was only
by strict - command they stopped re-"
luctantly in these pesitions. All fur
ther French attacks were V repulsed,
including especially ; violent . ones
against Vaux, -
. On the eastern line, Prince Leo
pold's' front," north of, Miadzior lake
the Russians' used gas fumes with
out success. In aeveral other places
along ttls part" of '.the front the Rus
sian battalions "were hurled at our
lines but we broke down the storming
waves with -cuitala tire. J':
On the Carpathian front Jn the
Kelemen mountains . hostile attacks
were repulsed. ; -.
IAdditiosal- Telegraph despatches
published on Pa 30 9. : I
vARIPIO PREFERS
11115
IT VERDI SAID
TO DE CHECKED
Tl DESTROYERS
RAIDTRISPORT
llIICHlIEt DA
;.- j . --;;;A ' ' ". -i - ' ' v..-' . . ,: : 1 tf
German Craft Swoop Upon
-British Steamers But are De-
' feated and Two SUnk
ft 1
RUMANIANS GAIN ON ONE
FRONT, LOSE ON ANOTHER
French Report Further Progress
v at Verdun, Taking Ter-;
' rain Near Vaux
.-- T ' y
(Assoeiat4 Pret by Federal Wireless) :
- LONDON, Eng Oct 27- The
steamers Rowan more and Skag have
been sunk in the war zone. The Ro
wan mo re carried $780,000 worth f
cotton from Baltimore. ,
WASHINGTON, D. C. Oct 27w
The r British steamer . Huntsf ell has
been sunk by a submarine and the
Norwegian steamer Severa has been
burned in the war zone, according to
a- message from Lloyds which the
State, department1 has received. .
LONDON. England, Oct 27. Ten
German torpedo-boat destroyers early
today attempted to raid the British
cross-channel transport service, but
the attacks along the line which the
transports follow between . England
and France failed. Two of the Ger
man destroyers were sunk by British
naval vessels which were patrolling
the Una and theremalnder were driv
en off, ' ' .'' a :-:. .
-The British torpedo-boat destroyer
Flirt, which took part in the engage
ment, is missing and the destroyer
Nubian ran aground. Nine members
of the crew of the Flirt were found
adrift and rescued. ' One. transport
steamer, the Queen, was sunk. She
was. empty. ..T; . .-. r v-'-; : .
SUCCESS FOR RUMANIANS
BUCHAREST. Rumania,"; Oct 27.
The Russians and Rumanians are to
day successfully waging battle on the
Rumanian Transylvania frontier. The
Teutons are making attacks in the
Tulgher and Bicacz Tegions, and have
been repulsed ia Trotus valley The
Rumanian advance continues in Usui
valley. : . , ' ,
MOLDAVIA IS NEW ARENA
- m "...
PETROGRAD. Russia, r Oct 27.
Success has crowned the efforts of
the Rumanians in their new war are
na in Moldavia. In the western part
of this region they have captured the
Ttan8ylvanlan village of Balan, also
the Paitrarotkul heights. Fighting
continues on the Osik river. . '
A German attack in the region of
Goldovitchl today forced the Russians
to retire to the eastern bank of the
Shara river. . The Russians and Ru
manians are retiring north between
Hirsova and Casapekui, .making stub
bora resistance. ; This Is on the Dob
rudja front' i
VON MACKENSEN PURSUES
BERLIN Germany" Oct 27. The
French today made - Enother assault
on ths German lines in. front of . Ver
dun, on the east of Fcrt Douaumont,
but were repulsed. ; y .
On the Dobrudja front, Rumania,
von Mackensen Is Dursuing the Rus
sians and Rumanians and has reached
Hirsova. . . ' " '.
A Russian atuck west of Lutsk was
repulsed. ' ' . .l
FRENCH GAIN! AT VERDUN -
PARIJi. v 'France. Oct 27. The
TVannh maris f nrtllftr'-JimeMSS st'.Vef-
dun today, gaining1 terfaia south- of
Vadx and taking 1 00 prisoners. ..
FUMIGATION PLANT ;
.tOM WATEBFRONT IS
f CONSIDERED AS NEED
Foiiowlne a. declaration by : W. M.
Giffard that unless a fumigation plant
Is Installed along the waterfront agri
Miltaral interests on the 'islands' will
be seriovsly affected, the board : Of
commissioners of agriculture ana ior
estry again look -up a discussion of
this subject today.1 ' ' - ; J
It is the Dlan of the board to erect
station near the Alakea wharf at the
corner of Kekuanaoa and Halekauwila
streets, where all fruits, plants and
oilier Insect carrying merchandise
shipped to the Islands may be fumi
gate and thus preclude, any -chance
of .more-pests getting into the islands
and injuritg llie crops and trees,
ri Considerable difficulty naa been met
with in getting the land, as ty is tied
up in other transactions, but! Giffard
said that Governor' Pinkham is work
ing out a plan and he hopes that some
thing will be done in the near future.
. FLOUR SOARS AGAIfJ y.
Vv"-v'fr POLlS, Minn, Oct- 27.
Another ascent was taken today in
flour prices. Fancy .Patents going up
to SJ0.20 a barrel.
BjTSTeliiTis;AL:z:3.::
Refuse to Disclose Source of Infor
mation But Declare it Autheritic
Say. No Consideration of Domestic
Polipies Led to Announcement
" (XiMciat4 Prfi Srrtf by Ffdoral tCireleta) '
NEW YORK, N. Yn Oct 27. William R. Willcox, chairman of the Re
publican national committee, followed Secretary of War Baker's story of
a Mexican attack planned on American troops with the statement today that
the scare is a piece of politics. . - "
"Baker Is guilty either of amazing stupidity or of a disingenuous at
tempt to gain votes for Wilton by misrepresentation, said - Willcox.
- EL PASO, Texas, Oct 27. Before departing for New York today on a
confidential mission Andres Garcia, inspector of consulates for 'Carrara a,
announced that he ia In possession of Information that a "junta exislj-.t
: El Paso for the purpose of directing Villa movements. He says it it
: composed of ex-revolutionists with possibly a few Americans.;
COLUMBUS, N. Oct 27. Extra scouting details-have been ordered
at border points. Citizens here have telegraphed to Gen. Funston that to
guarantee safety there should be more troops in this district -
. SAN ANTONIO, Tex, Oct 27.
border are to be Increased. Gen.
Immediately.
1 NEW YORK, N. Oct 27 Carranza has telegraphed to
Burns that It Is untrue Villa is besieging Chihuahua City.
WASHINGTON, D. C, Oct 27. No noiitlcal Interest In the United
States is behind the attack by ft.exlctn bandita on American troc-:s, v,;'.i
.officials say is to be carried out as a move against tne Wilson administra
tion on the eve of election.
This was declared emphatically by Secretary , of War Baker today. In
response to questions put to him by Interviewers, growing out of the stats
ment issued last night by him. Secretary Baker characterteed as "atsyrd".
reports that the threatened attack was part of a political plot forrur.'.rj in
the United States to discredit Mr Wilson.- He said that It is foolish t
suppose that his statement was Intended to imply that any political interest
In the United States desires anything other than peace on the border.
"Such a thing could not be," he declared to his Interviewers.
Both Secretary Baker and Secretary of State Lansing steadfastly if--fuse
to discJose the 'sources of the Information which has come to thenk
"and which they believe authentic, that a bandit attack lr planned. ' They
say that the channefof Information is so valuable that ncthirj will bs a
nounced which might injure its usefulnets. . -
r Furthermore, they lay stresi on the statement that no ranjlderation cf
domestic policies led to the announcement of the plot at this time.
Wilson Refuses to
Statement
(Aocited Prsn by Federal Wlrelesn)
WASHINGTON, D, C, Oct. 27. A
plot to drag the United States into
war with Mexico' if possible, and, if
not that, then to attack the American
troops, now. In Mexico, so as to dis
credit the Wilson administration, has
been discovered by the officials of the
war and state departments, according
to' a statement issued yesterday by
Secretary of War Baker, Just prior to
his departure, from this city to fill a
campaign speaking engagement.
The president was shown the state
ment together; with the assertion also
made by Mr. Baker that it had been
learned positively that the bandits un
der. Villa and the other rebel leaders
ir. Mexico are now being paid in silver
coin, but the executive flaUy declined
to make any comment upon either of
the assertions. .
Baker, in his statement said that it
has been definitely "learned that ene
mies of the administration under Mr.
Wilson, and its policy in regard to
Mexican natters, have deliberately
conspired to attack the American
troops now south of . the border, under
the command of General Pershing, in
order to create sentiment against the
Wilson regime. These attacks are to
be made in force, .and before election
day, so that they will be instrumental
in' defeating the Democratic candi
dateT ... - : ' .. 1 :
FIRE SUSPECTED
111
ircnniAnvi'rnnff
- -
' FARNHAM, Quebec, Oct 27 Police
who have been investigating the dis
astrous fir? which yesterday destroy
ed St Elizabeth's Hospital suspect
that incendiaries set fire to the in
stitution, though it 13 "not known for
what reason. '
The roll of dead. now numbers 19.
Several additional bodies were found
today and some of the patients are
still missing.; " V
MANY CANDIDATES HAVE
NOT SENT IN ACCOUNTS
When the time limit for the candi
dates "of the primary election to f II a
their election expenses account ended
Thursday night, only 52 out of the 63
had complied with the law. Accord
ing to David Kalauoka'.ani, county
clerk, three of the candidates are cut
of town and will probably tils them
on their return, but he Is p!ar.r.:r-r to
per.i letters to the cth?r c:ht c;: :
th.:r r,4:r.t!n t.- !'. f-:' -' . I
FATAL HOSPITAL
1 )
"J
Winter quarters for the troops on the
Funston ordered the work to proceed
.'.. '.
Consul
Comment cn
by Secretary Hz1.::::
The secretary of 'war stated, al.'o.
that Generate Pershing and Funston
have been notified of 'the detal'3 c'
the proposed plans of tha conspirator ,
and have been directed to take-tr-i
necessary steps -to balk' thenr. T':.:
troops along ths border line and the. ?
south of the frontier are reported to 1.
ready for any eventuality, added C
secretary. ,
Mr. Baker also declared that secret
agents of the war and state detri
ments have reported that th out! .
ender Villa and hi3 lieutenant.?, : j
well fl those under Zapata and ct: ;
of the bandit leaders, are now t : c
paid In real coin; andthat a3 a ctr- -quence
the forces under the comma:: i
of these men are beinr encrmo-is!;,-Increased
in size and e:2c!ency.
Secretary of State Lansing ar.th:r
ized the statement tht Eaker h- !
not intended to intimate, .that.. Am .-
lean citizens are involved, an J h?
denied that the announcement is to I .?
considered a "political play mad a at
this particular J Juncture to inSuc nca
the voters of the country.
Not a Political Move '
"It is not a political move," sail
Mr. Lansing, "but we believe that It
is a most desirable thing to zlve wh - r
information we can to tha puLlic, gz: ..
Ing all possible publicity for it, ;
the hope that it may prove su'Ticie:.:
to frighten the conspirators."
AMOY, China. Oct. 27. '
between the farmers and the
meat troops over the des'.rs:
the government of cpium-rc;;
is feared. Troops have ben
from the Kwanrftun? zr.i K :
ders to assist in the destr..
the crops. Resistance is
the opium planters.
.... .1.. ca
LEWIS DENIES HE IViL
- SPEAK ON "CCLC,
It appeared in cne cf l" 1
pers that A. Lew'3, Jr., i;
to spsak cn the Q ::tIcT c '
in; of. the x!-r llz- .
election-. .This Li r - -not
spesk ca th:3 s -'.
lief that tha r-:3 ij : :
furthemcro, th it : :
be made to r.;!: ? ! ; '
thcritatlva Etit ; '
ate J frcm h:-. '
f.3 i:-" i:' .
DE WJ "
