" -- - ^ -- -- - _ ... - - j -. -. - ....... ,: -- ' ?-?* . \-v ?* - ? .?~~~r t
\ ' " y '
- - *, * ? n 1* r*? y ? - - ? ? ' ' " ' f ? " ' 1 ^
ivtt . . , . XyM" "From Id Home j
: mw- : (she xjbttiim st&f* i^i
- . CIjOSIHG raw TORK STOCKS PAGE IK . V S SSI*. DaDr 1mm T43S*i Inter, sun
No. 29,484. --.,..., WASHINGTON, D. 0., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1916-TWENTY-TWO PAGES. ? ONE CENT.
-i
RUSSIANS ADMIT
WIDE RETIREMENT
: INTHEDOBRUDJA
Retreat Toward Line More
. Than Forty Miles North of
Constanza Railway.
GERMANS GAINING
IN PREDEAL REGION
Buuaiuu Capture Village and Important
Height in Transylvania,
Aeeording to Be port.
to tt? Asserts til Picas.
XtONDON, October ST.?Field Marshal
*ca Ifackeasen Is maklna the most of
his victory In Dobrudja and Is pressing
th? retreating Russo-Rumanlan army
" hard.
Sofia reports this army In precipitate
flight toward the farther reaches of
the Danube, and Petrograd admits a retirement-toward
the Hlrsova-Casapkeui
line, more than forty miles north of the
Constansa-Tchernavoda railway. The
Rqaalans and Rumanians, who were cut
off from railroad communications with
the loss of TChernavoda. are lighting
hard as they retire, Petrograd declares.
. _
In resisting fhe Anstro-Oerman thrust
Into Rumania from tha northwest the
Russo-Rumanfan forces are haying
more success. Romanian troops on the
Moldavian frontier have made further
irmemi into iTuaymnu, capturing
another Tillage and an Important
height, the Russian war offlce reports.
Berlin Be ports Gains.
Berlin's account of the fighting In
Dobrudja reports that the district of
HlrsoTa has been resched by Field Marshal
Ton Mackensen's troops
South of the Rumanian boundary the
forces of Gen. Ton Falkenhayn are
natl 11 suing to advance In the direction
of Campulung and below Predeal, the
Belli a statement announced.
The Russian statement In regard to
the operations .fellows:
"Transylvania front?On the western
ITootier ef Moldavia the Rumanians after
a short offensive captured the vfflags of
Hslsn. nine miles northwest of Okna, and
the Piatrarotkul heights, nine miles
southwest Oksna.
"On the western Valakhia frontier the
Rumanians have arrested the enemy's offenders
and are consolidating their positions.
On <oth banks of the' River Jlul
fiorfs fighting osntlnuee.
"pilldh FMsiiij attacks continue
aiodg the whole front. Our troops and
these of the Rumanian army, while ufrw BfteKhitfii
stdhdMhA dM^R
to the aofth of the Hlreovm - Caeapkeul
BumaniaJPoefeated.
In the Trotus valley Austro-Hungarian
troopa and, south of .Paroitus. Bavarian
troops defeated 'their Rumanian adversaries.
according to Berlin. On the roods
to Mnaya and Campulung German attacks
gained ground.
The Anstro-Hungarian war offlce has
issued the following communication:
"Front of Archduke Charles Francis:
North ofsfiampulung a Rumanian counter
attack was repulsed. South of the
Predeal pass our Honved troops are
successfully progressing. Tn the Bercer
mountains the Bavarians have cleared
a mountain ridge of the enemy. Around
Usui and Parcttus and in the Trotna
valley, fighting on Romanian ground,
tha Auatro-Hungarlan troops repulsed
the Rumanians at several points.
largs Captures at Conatanza.
. . A - large quantity of supplies was
eapturad by the forces of Field
Mgyshal von Mackensen at Constansa,
the Bulgarian war office announced.
"la Dobrudja," the statement Bays,
"the (Teutonic) allied troops are pursuing
the enemy. On Tuesday evening
they reached the line of Taschual, west
of Bster-Dorabantu. Torotman. Movilla,
Mosau. Oprea and Kokurlenl. Wednesday
morning the first infantry division
captured Tchernavoda. The pursuit
continues.
"The booty captured at Constansa Is
considerable. It consists of 140 trucks,
several locomotives and other railway
equipment. many oil tanks, most of
which were full; sheds and storehouses,
likewise full, and seventy Turkish vessels
Interned by the Rumanians."
Sorbs Capture Heights
on Left Bank of Cema;
Bad Weather Sets in
By the Associated Press.
PARIS. October IT.?Bad weather la
hindering the military operations on the
various fronts in Macedonia, says the
official statement issued today by the
Preach war department.
On October 24 Serbian Danube and
Drlna divisions captured several heights
on the left bank of the Cerna river, fac
law the mouth of the 8trn*ihnft?i? in..
rent. The Serbians took about 480 prisoners
and deserters and captured one
machine guu ready for action.
North of the otarkey Orob mountains
Serbian troops charged the German and
l Bulgarian forces, and seized the fortified
* height and the confluence of the Cerna
and Strosbnltsa rivers (east of the Cerna
head, southeast of Monastir).
Southwest of Lake Presba Serbian
cavalry, supported by Infantry units, on
Tuesday occ upied the Zvezda bridges and
a i mo the villages of Golobrda and Laisi
tsa.
Near Krapa, on the Cerna river, and
north of Grunlshte. Serbian advances
?vere repulsed, according to Berlin.
DEFINES ELECTION LAW.
Judge Manning's Decision Regarding
Provision for Registration.
NEW YOHK. October 27?A voter
may register from a former place ot
residence, even though bis house haa
been torn down, provided he intends tc
return and live in the same place, according
to a decision of Justice Manning
of the state supreme court. The
decision was given In the caee of Bird
g. Coler, once a democratic candidate
for governor. .
Mr. Coler registered from his old
, homo In Brooklyn, which was recently
torn down to make way for an apartnest
bouse. Registration, the court
asli Is Intended to provent persona
(1 apa voting more, than ones, and not
* **l"""1' thaan from voting on tachS
.
SAY TIDE IS TURNING
AWAY FROMWH.SON
New York Republicans Foresee
Victory in the State
and Nation.
ENCOURAGED BY REPORTS
BY N. O. MESSENGER.
NEW YORK, October 27.?Repub-1
licans here say that the tide has turned i
and is coming to Hughes. They claim
that the big Wilson flood has reached
I a ? a ? ? ? i ? ?I?* -?? i
hu vivsi. miu tiuw la ouuoiuing.
Reports from upstate show diminishing
hysteria on account of "He kept
us out of war" and over the eight-hour
wage law.
The accounts say that the sentimental
ecstacy Is over and that the voters
are beginning to look facts In the
face. New York is claimed for the
republicans, estimates of pluralities
varying all the way from 50,000 to
125,000. Disregard the pluralities, for
they are non-essential. The point Is
whether New York will give Its electoral
vote to Hughes even by the smallest
plurality.
Say Chances Favor Hughes.
It seems now that it will. Also it
looks as if New Jersey will go republican,
and all of New England, even
Including Connecticut, which has been
declared doubtful recently on account
of the Influx of laboring men working
in the munition plants and supposed to
be democrats.
With this big group of electoral votes,
reaching from Maine north of Mason's
and Dixon's line to Ohio, which now
is classed as doubtful, . grasping Indiana.
Illinois. Michigan, Minnesota,
the Paciflc coast, how can President
Wilson's re-election be figured?
Concede President's Popularity.
That It would be foolish to underestimate
the President's popularity is
beyond question.. They like him, and
that's all there is to It.. He will receive
a tremendous popular vote. He
will run ahead of the democratic ticket
In state after state, according to all
the signs and portents of the political
times.
However, the judgment of careful observers
Is that as election day approaches
the voters are getting away
from the personalities of tbe campaign
and coming down to the basic difference
between the democratic party and
the republican party.
CONDEMNS THE APPEAL
TO RACES IN CAMPAIGN
;.^ ? j.'. ..Vi..-. ?; ?
Xra Landrlth Also Criticises Torelgn-Born
Cltistn* Who Brine
National Sins With Them.
Br tti Iwrtiftt Turn
WORCESTER. Mm, October 27?forelgn-born
citisens who bring their ""national
sins" with them to America and
politicians who appeal to class votes
were similarly criticised by Ira Landrlth,
prohibitionist vice presidential candidate,
today, on the opening of the New England
Invasion of the dry special train
campaign.
"All honor." he said, "to the upright
and Industrious foreigner who comes to
dwell here and who is eager to conform
to tbe beet American ideals. Many of
them already are our first and finest
citisens. But no honor and no welcome
to those who would transform the continent
of America into a lawless imitation
of continental Europe.
"No honor either to the un-American
politician and political party that panders
to race prejudice by appealing for
the "German vote." or the Irish vote." or
the "Protestant vote." or the 'Catholic
vote." and no honor, but execration In
stead, of the memory of any race or
church that attempts to throw his fellow-members
as a body to the support of
a political party because such party or
its candidates are supposed to favor a
particular racial or ecclesiastical company."
J. Frank Haoly, the prohibition presidential
aspirant, delivered his customary
attack on Vice President Marshal for
his aid while governor In obtaining the
repeal of the local option law In Indiana
after Hanly had obtained it by a bard
fight.
GERMAN FUTAHCES DISCUSSED.
Reich itag Hat Granted War Credits
Amounting to 54,000,000,000 Harks
BERLIN, October 27.?The budget
committee of the relchstag and the secretary
of the treasury, Count von Roedern,
discussed the financial situation
and the government's policy during the
war of consolidating the floating debt,
especially treasury notes, in the form
of long-term loans.
Up to the present time the reichstag
has granted war credits amounting to
54,000,000,000 marks. Of this arabunt
48,600,000,000 marks was expended up
to September 30, 37.500,000,000 having
been provided by long-term loans and
^ the remainder by the sale of treasury
j bills. In October 250.000,000 marks will
j be repaid to the imperial treasury for
amounts dispersed for relief work.
JETS THE VICTORIA CROSS.
Britiih Soldier Captured German
Trenchea and 102 Men, by Self.
LONDON. October 27.?One of fifteen
Victoria croeeee. the award* of which
are made in today's London Oasette, la
to Private Thomas Jones, who. according
to the ofllclal account, after killing
three snipers who were shooting at
, him. entered the German tranche* and.
slngle'-handed. disarmed 1?2 Germans,
1 including three or four officers, and
> marched them back to the British lines
, through a heavy barrage Ore.
I Capt. C. A, Hon of. Canada Dead.
1 NEW YORK. October 27.?A cable1
gram received here tells of the death
i of Capt: Charles Alexander Moss of the
list Battalion, Canadian Infantry. Capt.
Moss was a son of the late 8!r Charles
t Moss, chief justice of Ontario. He had
i been a high official of the Zeta Pel
: Fraternity. He received his wounds ten
days ago. and died on Tuesday in a
hospital at Rouen.
PIM IS WARNED
SCHEME IS FRAUD
Post Office Department Views
With Suspicion Endless
Chain Letter.
OFFERS PETTICOAT AT DIME
If you receive an endless chain letter
offering you a guaranteed $4.BO petticoat
for 10 cents, view It with suspicion
and don't fall an easy victim. Is
the advice of the chief Inspector's office
of the Post Offfce Department.
Many women In Washington and
from all over the country have been
victimised by this "petticoat game" and
! are still waiting: for Uncle Sam's parcel
I post carriers to deliver the goods. But
| Uncle Sam has suffered most. More
i than a half million letters have already
been received at the Minneapolis post
office, all containing dimes, and the
work of the office has been congested.
The dead letter office in the Washington
city post office had this morning
received fourteen sacks of these letters,
each of which contained a dime.;
There are 5,000 letters in each sack,
making a total of 70,000 letters thus far
returned to the dead letter office. This
makes $7,000 in dimes In this stack,
that must receive the attention of extra
clerks in the dead letter office.
Cost to the Government.
Here is what this little scheme has |
cost the government, according to a re- i
port made two days ago?and the letters
are still coming in at the rate of
$0,000 a day:
More than 500,000 dime letters received.
Approximately ?0 per cent bear return
addresses, and ft costs the government
2 cents each to return them.
Something like $5,000 has already been
spent for this purpose.
About 40 per cent, do not bear return
addresses and ha.ve to be sent in
big bales to the dead letter office here.
They are opened and sent back to the !
writers when their names are ascer- j
tained. This costs the government 10 <
cents each, Or more than $12,000 thus j
far. J
Handling all this mail In Minneapolis 1
is now costing the government more i
than $50 a day for extra clerk hire. j.
The petticoat chain letter mall order j *
scheme seems to have been the product
of some fertile brain in Minneapolis. It J
first came to the attention of Wash- I
ington women when a number of them j
received letters, sometimes through the j
mail, but more frequently delivered j
anonymously, saying in substance that ,
if they would comply with directions <
inclosed they would receive from the ,
National Mall Order Exchange, 520 j
Globe building, Minneapolis, a "new j
model 1017 petticoat." The stipulatlons
were that the woman should ! (
write five copies of the letter which j
i
Washington women did this, and some f
others placed the letter in the hands
of the postal authorities.
Complaints Thick and Fast. i
Complaints have been coming in thick
'm- * aIRm. I n.ruuttinn I "1
ana ibbi w wb jwoi wve partraent.
The matter Is being thorough- 1
ly Investigated in Minneapolis, and a 1
warning has been issued to the public 1
by the Post Office Department. ^
The offices of the National Mall Order 1
Exchange have been deserted. In fact, fi
the postal officials ?say there is no room
number 520, Globe building. r
Only one thing could give the post of- 1
flee authorities more work, and that t
would be for the concern to mail out the
more than half million petticoats ordered.
It is estimated that this would take more
than 3.768,540 yards of silk and give
China and Paterson, N. J., undreamed *
of prosperity.
The letters have come from all quarters
of the country. There are huge bales of 2
them from Tucson, Ariz.; Tampa, Fla.; r
Lexington, Va.. from Montana, Delaware, j
Washington and Tennessee. The circular {
letter campaign seems to have been very <
thorough. r
The company that started all this got
but comparatively few of the dimes. At
first the promoters called every other '
day, the postal authorities say, and got
several hundred letters. Then the in- ,
vestigation frightened them away.
SEARCHING FOR BODIES.
Dead in Hospital Fire, Farnham, ,
Ont., Placed at Nineteen. '
FARNHAM, Ontario, October 27.?The ]
ruins of the St. Elizabeth Hospital, de- f
stroyed yesterday by fire, had suffi- .
ciently cooled today to permit the authorities'
to search for bodies. The ^
gray nuns, who conducted the instltu
tlon. announced mat an inquiry mat- ,
cates that the death list will stand at j
nineteen, Including Ave children.
Farnham was under police guard
during the night as a result of several
small fires, which led to the suspicion
that Incendiaries have been at work.
"Back-to-Norway" Movement On.
CHICAGO, October 27.?A "back-toNorway"
movement Is In progress
among young Norwegians In Chicago <
and the northwest, according to statements
of labor agents. The European
war has brought such prosperity to
Norway, it is said, that Industries there
are suffering under a labor famine. 1
Norwegian industrial concerns are ad- s
vertising In Chicago for help. During ,
the last month more than 200 workmen !
have returned to Norway from Chicago 1
alone. <
" - ]
OLD NEWSPAPERS j
COLLECTED !
The school children made a
wonderful record last week
when they collected twenty- 1
seven and one-half tons or two 1
carloads of old newspapers.
However, there was a lot
more paper produced than was
collected, as a, careful estimate
shows that over 220 tons of paper
was required to print the
editions of the four Washington
newspapers last week.
The Sunday Star alone
weighs a pound and three
copies of The Evening Star
weigh more than a pound.
If every school child will
once a week carry to school the
old newspapers from home, the
amount collected will grow
enormously.
*
"LITTLE BO
*
RUSSIANS FORCED BACK (
ACROSS RIVER SHARA
Slav Attack in District West of C
Dstsk Is Broken Dp bp
Germans.
ij th? Associated Press. 8]
PETROGRAD, October 27, via London,
:34 p.tai. ? German forces yesterday d
aunched an attack .against the Russian u
KMitions on the western? bank of the
liver Shara, in the region of Goldodtchi,
and forced the retirement of the b;
Russians to the eastern bank of the river, b
ays today's Russian official statement.
In the wooded Carpathians, In the
egion south of Rafailov and west of j
k'orokhta, German attempts to assume j
he offensive were arrested by our fire. j v
Ross Attack Breaks Down. j h
BERLIN, October 27, by wireless to a
Jayvllle.?Russian troops in the district
vest of Lutsk, in Volhynia, made a heavy
Lttack at midnight on the Austro-Gernan
lines in the Kiselin sector, after pro- **
onged artillery preparation. The at- e
ack, the war office announces, broke
iown before the defensive entanglenents.
c
TO CREDIT OF GREAT BRITAIN. |
I
rotal of $15,000,000 in Gold Deposited
With Morgan & Co. 1
XEW YORK. October 27.?Gold
imounting to $15,000,000 from Canada 1
vas deposited at the assay office to- ; v:
lay by J. P. Morgan & Co., acting as J t<
iscal and commercial agents of the j ()
British government. This makes a J
:otal of $450,000,000 received thus far j
:his year chiefly by way of Canada |ind
practically all for account of
British and allied interests.
It is believed that the flotation next
week of the new $300,000,000 British
loan will bring a temporary halt to
further imports of the metal. This is tl
in accordance with the views of con- jr
servative American banking interests,
which are opposed to a further inflow y
gold on the ground that It may be g
provocative of inflation. H
"* a
UAPVAPfl TA TTTAfiTT TBATT/TE v.
????*? * ?? ?*/ AV Ail U1VAA A UJUAVA4. U
? d
Course Will Be First of Its Kind
Under University Auspices. g(
CAMBRIDGE, Mass., October 27.? If
Harvard University is to extend Its in- ^
structioa to police officers. Plans for *
i course in the duties of officers are
well under way and will be instituted
within a month. The instruction will
ieal largely with the matter of organi- C
cation, the keeping of station house
records, identification systems and to
some extent with psychology as it re- ^
lates to the interrogation of persons '
arrested. The police of this city will 11
form the first classes, Harvard having tl
iecided to inaugurate the course at p,
the suggestion of Mayor W. D. Rockwood.
The course will be the first of its p
kind conducted under university aus- 0]
pices in this country. p.
/ tl
Fairbanks on Tour of Kentucky.
LOUISVILLE, Ky.. October 27.? w
Charles Warren Fairbanks, republican pi
nominee for the vice presidency, en- is
tered Kentucky this morning for a hi
two-day tour of the western end of the ti
state. He is scheduled to make forty- m
jne addresses in that time, including pi
extended speeches at Bowling Oreen, 0i
Hopkinsvllle. Leitchfleld, Owensboro R)
and Henderson. =
Fire Drive* 20 Families From Home.
PITTSBURGH, Pa., October 27.?A
score of families were forced to flee
from their homes when flames swept
through the plant of the McDowell
Manufacturing Company, at Millvale. a
suburb, last night. For a time twenty
dwellings were In danger, but were
saved. The loss. Is (190,000. **
Y BLUE, COME BLOW YC
fE. HUGHES ADVOCATES
A RETIREMENT SYSTEM
L 0. P. Candidate Favor* Appointment
TTnder Civil Serviee, Based
on Competency.
pecUl Dispatch to The Star.
UTICA, N. Y., October 27.?Emphatic
eciaration in favor of retirement syssm
for the government employes and
or appointment under civic service
ased on competency was made today
y Charles E. Hushes in addressing a
Lrge gathering here. He said he was
eeply Interested in the welfare of the
?deral employes, who are performing
aluable service for the government in
umble capacity and for meager salries.
Interest in Clerks' Welfare. '
"I am deeply interested in- the welare
of the employes of the federal gov- i
rnment. We should in every pracIcabla
way seek to promote the effl- *
iency of the service and the just in
crests of those who devote their lives
i
o It.
"I desire to see our civil service dig- *
ifled and safeguarded, not only by ap- j
ointments based on special compe- 1
ence, but by every reasonable pro- (
ision, including a fair retirement sys- 1
?m, for the security and wellbeing of ]
ur civil servants."
I
IALF HOLIDAY INDORSED
BY SECRETARY BAKER
s
Secretary Baker has sent a letter to
tie President at Shadow Lawn strongly
idorsing the proposition for an all-the~
ear-round Saturday half holiday in the I
overnment departments in this city. !
fe declines to make his letter public 1
t this time on the ground that it might !
e considered discourteous to the Presi- j
ent. j
"1 tolil the President," Mr. Baker said j
> a Star reporter, "that I believed the |
aturday half holiday to be an excelint
thing, and that its institution
ould not Interfere with the work of
le department."
CALL HALE FOB PBOOF.
harge Regarding Deportation of
Hegroei From Sonth Challenged.
Attornev General Greaorv ?hnnM ,.t.l *
fflclal notice of the published stories J
lat negroes are being: deported from
le south to be used for political puroses
in northern states, according: to
statement issued today by the Reublican
Publicity Association from Its ^
fflce in this city. Jonathan Bourne, t
resident of the association, says In t
ie statement: *
"Mr. Gregory comes from the south, f
here a man's Qrst consideration Is to g
reserve his honor as a gentleman, it r
up to him in the preservation of that J
onor to either deny the statement a
xat has been Issued from his office, if
was so issued, or to prove the stateent
contained therein. Refusal on his ]
irt to perform this duty, which he
ves to the people of the United States,
xould be followed by Impeachment" b
- h
A
Save Today's Paper t
_ - ?i
for the School ;
Children's Playground
Fund. S
L -E is
v .V.
^" \)
?UR HORN I"
GERMAN DESTROYERS
SUNK IN CHANNEL RAID
One British Fighting Craft Milting I
and One Is Disabled by
Torpedo.
I
By the Associated Press.
LONDON", October 27.?Ten German
torpedo boat destroyers attempted to
raia me cnusn croBH-cnannei transport
service last night, but the attempt failed,
says an official statement, issued
by the British admiralty today. Two
of the German destroyers were sunk
and the others were driven off.
One British torpedo boat destroyer,
the Flirt, is missing, the British state- ,
ment adds, and another destroyer, the .
Nubian, was disabled by a torpedo and .
pan aground. Nine members of the .
crew of the Flirt were saved.
The German destroyers succeeded in ,
sinking one empty transport, the j
Queen. The crew was saved.
The British admiralty announcement
follows:
"During last night the enemy at- 1
tempted a raid with ten destroyers on t
:>ur cross-channel transport service.
The attempt failed.
"Ofte empty transport, the Queen. '
was sunk. The whole of her crew was *
saved. j
"Two of the enemy destroyers were
3unk and the rest were driven off."
"H.M. torpedo boat' destroyer Flirt, J
Lieut. Richard P. Kellett, R. N., is miss- c
ing and it is feared she may be lost, 1
aut nine of the crew have been saved. *
"H.M. torpedo boat destroyer Nubian, .
Commander Montague Bernard, R. N.,
was disabled by a torpedo and taken
in tow, but owing to the bad weather, ^
the tow parted and she has grounded." ^
LEAGUE OF PEACE IDEA
IS INDORSED BY BRYCE '
/
LONDON, October 27.?In a letter to
:he Times indorsing the recent speech
>f Viscount Grey before the Foreign
Press Association in approval of the
League of Peace idea. Viscount Bryce ,,,
sails attention to the fact that the
seace league movement already hhs ^
gained a virtually universal accept- 1
mce in America, saying that both ^
President Wilson and Charles E.
iughes, the republican presidential ^
lominee, representing the two great po- fi:
itical parties, have indorsed it and de- ol
dared it to be the duty of the American ^
>eonle to assist in SUCh a nerman?nt
combination of nations.
After emphasizing the importance of ?
his favorable American opinion, Viscount
Bryce urges the British govern- C
nent to take advantage of it, and "as
toon as the end of the war comes in
tight" to endeavor, in conjunction, with
American statesmen, formally to "contider
how such a league should be c
ormed and what its functions should ui
?e." Sf
Troops to Destroy Poppy Crops. a
AMOY, China, October 27.?Troops tl]
rhich had been guarding the Kwangung-Fukien
border have been recalled cc
o assist in the destruction of poppies, al
rhich have been planted extensively in
or the making of opium, in the Tun- "
an district during the unsettled period st
esultlng from the recent revolts in ?Q
he vicinity of Canton. Resistance by lt
he opium planters is considered prob- A,
bis. co
^ t
faniln Board Honors Senator Clarke
MANILA. October 27.?The municipal sh
oard has voted to name a street in; wl
onor of Senator James P. Clarke of
.rkansas. author of the Clarke amend- wi
lent to the Philippines bill in the in
felted States Congress under which wl
lie Islands would have been given
omplete independence In four yeara
The Clarke amendment was voted *
own In Congress and the Jones bill,
resting the Philippine senate In place Ch
f the former commission; was substi- ha
ited. .. ' : ,.?es ?
FRENCH ARE DRIVING
ANMVERDUN
Close In Further on Fort Vaux.
Numerous German Attacks
Repulsed.
NIVELLE FELICITATES MEN
By the Associated Press.
LONDON, October 27.?Before Verdun
the French are driving anew at
the German lines after having, according
to the Paris war office, repulsed all
the numerous counter attacks of the
crown prince's troops in efforts to recapture
Fort Douaumont and other positions
taken by Gen. Nivelle's forces
In their great drive of Tuesday last.
In a fresh attack last night, the statement
declares, the French scored advances
west and south of Fort Vaux,
closing in farther upon this important
work.
Berlin declares that a French attack
yesterday in tne region easi 01 run.
Douaumont was repulsed with heavy
losses.
Apparently the Germans are preparing
for further attacks, as Paris re-1
ports a violent bombardment of the
French lines at Fort Douaumont and j
the Chenois wood.
On the Somme front Berlin announces
the breaking up by German guns of a |
French attack in preparation in the
Fresnes - Mazancourt - Chaulnes sector
south of the river.
Gen. Nivelle's Proclamation.
Gen. Nivelle, the French commander
it Verdun, has addressed the following
proclamation to Geif. Man gin and the
officers and men of his command whoi
participated in the recent French advance
north of that city:
"Officers and men of Gen. Mangin's
group! In four hours, by a magnificent
assault, you wrested at one blow,
Prom a powerful enemy, ground northeast
of Verdun bristling with obstacles
ind fortifications which he took eight
months to tear from us bit by bit at
the cost of desperate efforts and considerable
sacrifices.
"You have added fresh and splendid
jrlory to the flags of the army of Veriun.
In the name of that army I thank
you. You have deserved well of your
country."
British troops last night raided the
German trenches in the sector south of
he River Ancre, in northern France,
says the official statement issued by
he British war department today. On
his front a heavy rain fell during the
light.
QUOTES TUMULTY LETTER
TO SUPPORT ALLEGATION
Socialist Candidate for President
Renews Attack on the Army
Reorganization Law.
HOBART, Okla, October 27.?Allan L.
Benson, socialist candidate for Preaiient.
who is on a campaign tour of
Dklahoma, today made public a letter
written, he said, bv J. P. Tumulty,
?ecretary to President Wilson, to V. D.
Fowler. Hot Springs, Ark., regarding
:he Hay-Chamberlain reorganization
aw which Mr. Benson has criticised
n public speeches, charging it contains
t drafting clause. In a statement Mr.
Benson says he suggested to Mr. Fower
that he write Mr. Tumulty and ask
whether his (Benson's) charges In this
jonnection were true. The Tumulty
etter, dated Asbury Park, N. J., Oc;ober
14, as quoted by Benson, follows:
"In reference to your letter of Oc:ober
5. I beg to say that, as has been
explained again and again, the clause
eferred to in the so-called Hay-Chamjerlain
army bill applies only in time
>f war. While the bill was certainly
U-considered in language, the intenion
was not at all what it is reprelented
by its critics to be. I may add
hat the President feels the language
vas too sweeping and he hopes to get
t limited at the earliest opportunity."
Mr. Benson's statement says:
"Two big facts stand out: The Presilent,
through his secretary, now prirately
admits he has signed some sort
>f a bill relating to the draft, which
le now disapproves and which he will
ry to get limited at the earliest possi>le
opportunity."
MOTHER 5,000 BELGIANS
ARE SENT TO GERMANY
AMSTERDAM, via London, October
7.?Another 5,000 Belgians were sent
om Ghent to Germany Monday, accord- i
lg to the Telegraaf. About 10,000
lore at other points have received or- i
era to prepare for their departure.
A fire in the relief committee's storeouses
at Lokeren Monday destroyed 1
fty tons of wheat and a quantity of
ther provisions. The losses cause
jnsiderable anxiety as to the possibil- :
y of provisioning the town.
TABTS SEAWABD UNMANNED, j
oast Guard Overhauls and Brings
Bunaway Ship to Port. !
Coast guard headquarters Is In re- '
?H>t of telegraphic reports of a most
nusual accident, which occurred at
ia oft the coast of Virginia yesterday.
The schooner E. S. Dickerson, with c
crew of two men, was beating up r
ic coast against a fresh offshore wind
1 a trip from the James river to Chin- '
iteagu*.. One of the crew accident- *
ly fell overboard, and the other man 1
imedlately lowered the schooner's yawl
id went to the rescue.
After picking up his comrade he b
arted to return to the schooner, but d
und to his amazement that she had
arted off to sea on her own account, f
ssistance was at once given by the c
ast guard stations in the vicinity. b
Hie crew of station No. 154 succeeded a
overhauling the wandering vessel ti
reive miles southeast from where s
e was involuntarily abandoned, and p
1th the aid of the power lifeboat from v
ast guard station No. 158 the truant
soel. then a derelict on the high seas, a
is finally towed into Wachapreague ti
let, much to the relief of her crew, A
?o were there awaiting her. A
' i IE
Ship Set on Fire by U-Boat. D
.ONDON. October 28, U:6?. p.m. ?A f?
ipatch to tho Control News from Jjjj
riatlanlo ur> tho Danish ship London o!
o boon oot on flro In tho NoA sea by
Gannon submarine. ?* hi
SECRETARY BAKER
SAYS NO AMERICAN
IS IN BORDER PLOT
Also Denies Political Significance
Attached to Exposure
of Villa Conspiracy.
STEPS HAVE BEEN TAKEN *
TO PROTECT U. S. CITIZENS
Gens. Funston and Pershing; Have
Acted Promptly to Safeguard
Troops and Boundary Towns.
The Secretary of War. Newton D.
Baker, today denied that any American
is implicated in the alleged plot to
attack American troops in Mexico or
American border towns, following a
statement Issued by him last night, in
which he announced the discovery of
such a plot on the part of the "enemies
of the administration's policy toward
Mexico in co-operation with Villa
or other bandits in Mexico."
War and State Department official*
refused to disclose the source or specific
nature of the information on which
Secretary Baker last night issued the
statement that such attacks have been
planned for the purpose of discrediting,
between now and the date of the election,
the administration's Mexican policy.
Officials said that the channel of
Information through which the report
|of the plot came is so valuable that
nothing will be given out which might
Injure its usefulness.
Both Secretary Lansing and SecretaryBaker
today laid stress upon the statement
that no consideration of politics in
the United States at this time led to the
issuance of the announcement that such
a plot had been discovered.
Exposed Plot to Prevent Balds.
Secretary Baker today referred to an
explanation made by Secretary Lansing
last night of the War Department statement
after Mr. Baker had gone out of
town as "the obviously appropriate comment
of the Secretary of State." Secretary
Lansing's explanation of Mr.
Baker's statement last night was to the
effect that no American is Implicated.
Secretary Baker said that a desire to
prevent the carrying out the plan for the
plot had prompted his statement,' and,
he said: "Secretary Lansing's explanation
precludes the possibility that pay such
construction or understanding could be
put upon my statement. The statement
was without political purpose and ought
| to be without political effect. It Prill
I have served its entire purpose if it serre*
notice upon the lawless people in Mexico
that we have been warned and are prepared."
It la recognized in Washington that
Secretary' Baker's statement, which
was in the nature of a bombshell, will
cause great uneasiness among all the
people of the United States who have
relatives In Gen. Pershing's punitive
force in Mexico, and will cause great
alarm in all the border oommunltles
of the United States which are not
well defended and prepared In a military
way. In his statement Beerotary
Baker points out that orders have gone
forward to Gen. Funston and to Gen.
Pershing to be prepared.
Today, however, the Secretary of War '
indicated that no immediate movement
of Gen. Pershing's columns is contemplated.
He refused to say, however,
whether orders had been given to meet
an attack, and gave the impression that
Gens. Funston and Pershing might
have been directed to take certain steps
of a retaliatory character, should an
attack be made upon their forces, or .
that the department has such orders
under consideration today. *T have
nothing to say on that subject." was
his only response to every question in
regard to orders sent to the border.
Refers to Mexican Refugees.
Secretary Lansing: views the situation.
based on the information as to
the alleged plot which has been received
in Washington, although somewhat
indefinite as to individuals, as
showing a dangerous situation along
the border. Publication of the fact
that the government has taken steps to
checkmate such a movement, Secretary
Lansing believes, goes rar to war a preventing
an attack either upon a border
town or upon Peshing's forces.
One striking remark In Secretary
Baker's statement was to the effect
that it is significant that the bandit
forces operating at the present time in
Mexico "are being paid in silver coin."
Secretary Lansing touched upon this
today, in a statement authorized by
him, in which he says:
"I was quite correctly reported last
night in the statement that Secretary
Baker's, announcement was inspired by
absolutely;- no political considerations
as to this cdiaptry. Nor does it mean to
infer that Americans of any source
are involved in ??he plot. There are
many Mexican refugees in this country
who are inimical to the President's
Mexican policy who would doubtless
choose the present time as ripe for
the furtherance of their projects. The
silver which is. known to have gone
from this country to Mexican bandits
was not necessarily from Americans. <
indeed, 1 camfot conceive that there is
any American citizen who is so heartless,
so entirely cruel, so wanton as to
take a political step that would in- ,
/olve American lives.
"The warning was given simply to ij
protect American lives and property
and I have every hope it will be effective."
?
"Mexicans Agitating Constantly."
In his talks with newspaper men to- I
lay in explanation of his statement Secretary
Baker said it was "absurd" to y
? ? ? V* {o afQiam.nf -Ji'i/I V. .A it f
luppuoc Hiai "ID HUU UVVI. I
ntended to imply that any political in- ) J
erests in the United States desire any- j
hing other than peace on the border. ?
"Such a thing could not be," he said.
Asked what interests he charged were \
ehind the movement. Secretary Baker
lictated this statement: "
"The Mexicans who oppose the de f
acto government in Mexico would, of :
ourse, be glad to complicate relations 4
etween the United States and Mexico,
nd our information is that they think Si
his an appropriate time to do so. The %
?qtpmpnt made last niaht bv the de- M
artment ought to discourage any ad- 5
enture on their part In that direction: 4
"Everybody knows that many Mexl- f
ans in this country are constantly agi- f
itlng against the de facto government. I
,ny sympathy there may be on the , <
rperlcan side of the border with the *
lovement is wholly from this source. S
"The only possible suggestion of a M
olitlcal purpose (in the War Depart- 1
tent's statement) Is to prevent people I
i Mexico from creating a disturbance "
t a political character In furtherance
[ their own design." jf
Part of die information whltm led to I
Is statement, the SecretarjB said, I
-V- . '. MM
