NIGHT
EXTRA
VOX III. NO. 38
uaienmg
FINANCIAL EDITION
STRA
. T K
V " ,nw -
JL4
.v
He 4jk T
feitger
NIGHT
EXTRA
f-'T
IENCH TROOPS
WE FORWARD
TOWARDVAUX
lrnin N9W Ground in Encir-
' cling Movement on
Verdun Front
GUNS IN GREAT DUEL
3
iusso-Rumanians Continue to
XVUkllV, uub iiuoia
m Stubbornly
PAniS, Oct 87.
TU French drive against Fort Vaux,
Fjierthesst of Verdun, has made further
I fntrttt.
The French fines both est and south
lf the fort were advaoed In fighting last
last, the War Office announced In Its com-
atenlijue today. One hundred German prls-
cntrt were taken
While the French Infantry was pressing
forward In an encircling movement against
I (he Oerman position at Fort Voux, Or
jn guna were pounding away against
tea Douaumont-Chenols wood llnei It was
iinun (Ire of the heaviest type, but no
(tees violent was the barrage cannonade of
French gum.
It At the French tsotdlers pressed forward
'la their assaults, the French batteries
$ poured out a ceaseless rain of shells In front
let them. The bomuardmeni wrccaea me
ISermtn trenches and scattered reserves
P teat tried to reach the front
J't H has now developed that Douaumont
fFerl was set on fire by a German shell and
' tfctt It was still burning when the French
L (termed It ,
The situation on the Somme front Is un-
ehtnged.
1 1
RUSSO-RUMANIAN TROOrS
- EVACUATING DOBRUDJA IN
" QUICK RETREAT NORTHWARD
BERLIN, Oct 27.
.Engineers In the army of Field Marshal
fvon Mackenien In Dobrodja have already
! Wfun to repair the great' Danube bridge
jit Cernavoda, which was blown up by the
Ifttreatlng Rumanians. Advices from Sofla
today state that huge supplies of bulling
tterlals baa beer) carried along oy von
uktnsen'a army, tor It was accepted as a.
s teregono conclusion that the Rumanians
aid try to destroy the, Cernavoda, bridge
er were driven from their bridgehead
KWU - '
K; Rumanian artillery on the western bank
itt the river Is shelling the German bridge
f builders, but It is being taken under the
ifirt of the heavy German guns which are
i rapidly being placed In position around the
r tasklrta of Cernavoda.
1 1 .The pursuit of tho retreating Russian
Fjerces In northern Dobrtdja continues.
ojnee me invasion ok uoDruujo. von juacK
Jensen's army has advanced eighty miles
t laio Rumanian territory.
Fleeing Russo-Rumanlan forces ahe evac-
r eating practically all Dobrudja, said an
ieffctal statement from the Bulgarian War
? Office today. The statement said:
On the whole front, the enemy Is re
treating prec'pltately toward Tulcea,
Bratla and Uarsova. nursued by our
b ; forcea, Wednesday's captures Included
1 niieen omcera, 771 men ana fifteen ma-
enme guna.
(Tulcea lies seventy miles north of Con-
stanza, on the southern ami of the Danube
i a few milts from the Russian frontier.
alia Ilea about seventy miles north' of
navoda, on the Danube and Uarsova,
out twenty-five miles northwest of Cer-
oa, on the Danube.)
King Ferdinand dispatched personal ap-
lis to the rulers of Allied nations to save
anla from disaster after the fall of
inia, according to Budapest dis-
chts.
The messages were sent following a
ny session of the Rumanian Cabinet
anan military leaders were said to
e been harshly criticized by several of
ministers, but supported by the king,
1 declared the Rumanian defeat was due
tie fact that Russlahad failed to supply
artillery and munitions she had prom-
Oerman military men expect an early
'eSSOBStratlon hv tha Alii.. nnluM ni.
L?Vallan and Macedonian fronts. In re-
to King Ferdinand's appeal. Be-
1 fhe Allied armies lack suOldent mu-
1 tor great offensives on these fronts.
1 attacks are exnected t-i be ahort.llved
bj a'reoted largely fpr the purpose of
waging me disheartened Rumanians.
U8S0-RUMANIANS OFPRIl
LWUBBORN RESISTANCE AS THEY
RETREAT FROM DOBRUDJA
iw 1 . tt I'KTROGRAD, OO.JU
7r stubborn resistance to M&ken.
BBBSBBa A aa Jara mma At. V .- - v-
Jr. v "lo vuonumaniaii in
iraM ar rMlrfnn? nnrihnre1 Auiihl
Uarvova-Casapohlei Una, (thirty ml'es
t CwrtfaweJ en rase Ms. Column Oh
.THE WEATHER s
FORECAST
fV PhUaUlkia. ad vmttityFair
! and Satunky; not -muek change
Umftrrtur; vwdrmh touthcrh)
liSfe . wriW WW WAS
fwm mf ',',';; 64 J.'JtiVfaen' Mmtmae ..
MBAWAKK KIVHK THM( OMAMWN
Ur W . at ICHT nur " ii, JK
JRasWfXUfVMI sUC
sssssssssssssssssssssssssWiljssF H
,,fJySiypw'-
r tIsf 1 j TssBv'ajsssa
5 ssssssssssssssssV3&lvl v("""!r" '' 'l
Si P',HsBSSSSB I !Sk '
r jSf isssC
iSBasf BSBBRtiftV"aBBK
sBBBSi srr bbbbk
PniliaVDELPIIIA, PKIDAY, oaXOBER S27, 101G
CortsioiiT, 1810. at Tits Pernio l.trom CouriNt
phioh oirjB omp
TWO TEUTON, ONE
BRITISH WARSHIP
SUNK JN BATTLE
Another English Destroyer
Missing in Channel
Fight
TRANSPORT QJJEEN LOST
German Flotilla in Attack on
Troopcraft Is Driven
OfT
t MISS VIHGINIA MACKAY
SMITH CArTAIN BOY-ED
U.S. CENSOR IS BLAMED
FOR SPOILING ROMANCE
OFMISSMACKAY-SMITH
Intercepts Kaiser's Permission
to Captain Boy-Ed to Marry
Daughter of Late Bishop
of Pennsylvania
CAPITAL WAITED EVENT
.iQJ&JS
The mystery, which for more than a year
has enshrouded the manifold reports of the
engagement of Captain Boy-Ed, recalled
naval attache to thf Imperial Oerman Em
bassy at Washington, to Miss Virgin I
Mackay-Smlth, formerly of Philadelphia,
and daughter of the late Bishop Alexander
Mackay-Smlth, of tho Diocese1 of Pennsyl
vania, was solved today.
The marriage. It Is declared, was blocked
by the overzealousness of an American
naval otllcer, acting as censor at the Say
vllle wireless station. A letter from Berlin
which escaped the German and British cen
sors and the contents of which were Im
parted today gives the following explana
tion, based upon the story ot one of Captain
Boy-Ed's closest friends:
Immediately after tho Captain had ob
tained Miss Mackay-Smlth's affirmative
answer to his proposal of marriage he filed,
through Ambassador Bernstorff, the cus
tomary request for the Kaiser's permission,
a mere formality, but an Iron-clad tradition
In the Oerman army and navy. Owing to
the difficulties the Germany embassy has
been experiencing Blnco the outbreak of the
war with regard to direct, confidential cable
.connection, and Captain Boy-Kd'a request
being a strictly personal matter, pains were
taken for Its careful, confidential transmis
sion through a medium known only to the
embassy officials. The Foreign Office was
requested however, to convey the Kaiser's
decision by wireless. This was early Jn
1915.
EVEN DATE SET
Confident that the Imperial Dan Cupid's
answer would be prompt and affirmative,
Captain Boy-Ed and his bride-to-be began
planning. It is said that even the data
waa set
Meanwhile there developed the series of
"plot" sensations )nrplvlng the German naval
attache and his confrere, Captain von Pa
pen, and culminating Jn the demand by the
American Government for pielr recall. For
Captain .Boy-Bd there followed months of
agony. He was In the most painfully em
barrassing position with regard to his mat
rimonial project.
Mysterious whisperings made the rounds
of Washington society and gossip revelled
In the noncommittal replies emanating
from the captain" and his Amerjcan bride-
Continued en Fate Two, Column Tire
HUNDREpS SEE STRANGER DIE
Young Man Leaps From Ferryboat
Into the Delaware
A. well-dreaeed young man oommlted sui
cide today by leapte from the ferry beat
(VVenonah Into the pUwar Ulver In full
view of huAdr4 of person. Ife swam
away from abPaad aapk
Wn WewHUtb ws abput 290 ft out
from her PhU ebko when pass.ngsrs
notloed the yowifc- man climbing over the
Iron t t ttu stern. He Jump! lato the
Ur beW h oouU J rtralA4 and
u,mh awa from Mm boat. The ersft waj
uiitJ aju4 k Wen an hit's nlner sic.
aatod ike ferry prtdfefot, which aade
tor the spot where the ntaa tu mi.
lie mux wore vm ww
The I'hHadetphla boHc wen
M rtvw aa MMjtaMM
" TW
w
LONDON, Oct. 17.
The first open sea fight since the Jutland
battle wns fought In the English Channel
last night between Oerman and British
"mosquito flotillas," when ten Oerman de
stroyers, bent upon raising haoo among
the British cross-channel serlce and troop
transports, were engaged by British de
stroyers. A spectacular running battle en
sued, the result of which, according to pre
liminary reports Issuod today by tb.o Ad
miralty, wcro as follows:
German losses Two destroyers sunlc
British losses Destrojer Vllrt missing.
Nine men sacd; destrojer Nubian dis
abled and later sunk while being toned In;
transport Queen, carrying no troops, sunk.
Crew sacd. "
The raid was the first attempted by Ger
man naval forces 1$ such strength since tho
outbreak of the war. , It was designed prim
arily, It Is belleed, to hinder the moving of
British reinforcements to the Bomme front.
The channel was swept by n loIent
storm and the sn, was high while tho en
gagement was fought. The destroyer Nu
bian, Commander Montague Barnard, wan
disabled an listed heally when taken Into
tow by r rescue vessel. So terrific was tho
gale, however, that the tow was cut and the
destroyer subsequently sank. The fate of
the Nubian's crew- Is not yet known.
Commander Blchard T. Keilett, ot the
Flirt, and all except the nine rescued men,
are believed to hao been drowned.
The Nubian was a unit of the "P" class
nnd the Flirt of the "C" clash. The former
carried a crew of seventy-one men nnd tho
latter of sixty-two, Tho Nubian was 280
feet long and twenty-nix feet in the beam,
nnd displaced OSS tons. She waa armed
with two four-Inch guns and twp elghtcen
Inch torpedo tubes.
The Flirt was 215 feet, long, twenty feet
In the beam and displaced-. 380! tons. She.
a. ermed with one.lwIVeroTfndeiv' fhe
slx-poundera nnd two elghtcon-lnch torpedo
tubes.
Leper Quarantine Withdrawn
"WlLKES-BAltm:. Pa., Oct. 27. Br.
Samuel a. Dixon, head of the State De
partment of Health, has notified the
health officials of this city that Joseph Nor.
man, who hns been quarantined for the last
two years bb a leper. Is "not a very great
menace to public health." The officials Im
mediately withdrew the guards.
TWO BIG FIRMS
GIVE TRADE TO
NEW SHIP LINE
Join Fight to Prevent
Throttling by British
Interests
NEW YORKERS ALSO HELP
How Philadelphia Rallies
To South American Line
JpFFOKTS of nritiah Milpplnr: in--l
tcrrsts to crush new Philadelphia
nnd South American Steamship
Line, result as follows:
Two Inrpo Philndclphin exporters
declare for Philadelphia line. They
are Miller Lock Compnny nnd En
terprise MnnufncturinR Company.
Moren-Montcmnycr & Co., Now
York commission brokers, "hope to
use new line's facilities."
Export mana(rcrs of Philadelphia
manufacturers meet tonight at Phil
adelphia Chamber of Commerce to
round out tonnage for steamship
Evelyn, sailing in two weeks for
South America.
Herman Wright, president of new
line "Vcnturo is n success."
Two large exporting firms today came to
the front In tho Philadelphia Chamber of
Commerce's fight to prevent British ship
ping Interests from throttling the recently
established Philadelphia nnd South Ameri
can Steamship Company and announced
that they would patronize tho new line.
In addition to obtaining the promise of a
New York brokerage ngency to mako use
of Its facilities.
A hlgner regard for tho future of the port
of Philadelphia than for Immediate profits,
according to the Foreign Trade Bureau of
the Chamber, actuated the two firms, which
do n large exporting business. They are:
Tho Miller Lock Company, 4S2I Tocony
street.
The Enterprise Manufacturing Company
of Pennsjlvanta, hardware specialties. Third
nnd Dauphin streets.
Both of these firms, aroused by the
Chamber of Commerce's efforts to save the
new steamship line from being crushed,
today notified the Forelgrt Trade Bureau
that not only are they In favor of tho Phil
adelphia line, but that they have so suc
cessfully brought pressure to bear upon
Morea-Montcmayer & Co., of JCew York;
that the last-named firm today also noti
fied the bureau that (t would avail Itself
o.f JJi'.aeV'lne'a aclllllescr'-Thfr MUlnr
nnd Enterprise flrirm have booked space on
the steamship I"elyn, Bailing In two weeks,
as n token of their filth In tho project.
Pressure will be brought to bear upon
other Phlladlpehla manufacturer! at n
meeting of export managers at the Cham
ber of Commerce tonight In un effort to
round out tho tonnage with Philadelphia
products.
W. Ilamsey, ot the Miller Lock Company,
Continued on rase Setrn, Column l'our
COURT CAN'T ISSUE
LIQUOR LICENSES
AT PENNSGROVE
Existence of Camp-Meeting
Association Bars Action
on Pleas
BODY BLOW FOR "WETS"
SALEM, N. J. Oct. 27. The liquor Inter
ests were dealt a body blow by Judge "Wad.
dlngton at noon today In tho Salem
Cqunty Court when he decided that there
existed within the borough of I'ennsgrove
a camp-meeting association, as contem
plated by the act of the New Jersey Legis
lature ot 1806, and that he could not act
upon applications for licenses In any form,
Ills written opinion will be filed later with
County Clerk Harrla. There Is Joy among
the "dry" forces over the decision of tho
court, for they feel for good and all the
liquor qdestlon In 'PennsgroveMs settled,
Few ot the persona most vitally Interested,
were present when the verdict was given.
Harry II. Green, Alpine Lucas and Joseph
Olordano, the applicants, were In court and
were disappointed at tho outcome, but-It
was admitted that an appeal would be
taken. t.
Former Circuit sjiourt Judge Cole pre
sented the argument or the remonstrants
and dwell mainly upon the camp-meeting
association and held that all the require
ments of the act ot 1890 had been met by
the Incorporators and that the certificate
could not bo attacked and passed upon by
a Common I'loas Court, but should be
passed upon by the Attorney General, He
urged that Judge Waddlngton exercise the
greatest caution In passing upon the appli
cation, for the character of work performed
by the men employed at the powder plants
requires clear heads and steady hands and
that live were Involved.
Former Judge Hudspeth, of Hudson
County, who was scheduled to make the plea
for the applicants, did net appear and At
torney Milliard and Ware argued the ease.
Tky hM that no lel delkiHkia of a camp
meelne: existed and that the frgeutiMtton
In queetlon wae net a bowa-Wa association,
that the aet had Met been oemnlstd with, nor
wm the asieWntjan auefe aa, the aet coetew
plated fThejr kw dsetared It was merely
a hody ot ea who voluntarily organised
to dtveM the oetut ot Ha Jttriadiotloa In
CHAIN GROCERIES
REFUSE TO BOOST
BREAD TO 6 CENTS
Big Bakeries to Increase
Loaf One Cent Next
Week
CORNER BAKERS IN LINE
The easap Mat) I eeeoelatUms at Pit.
Taflewf"? w s9nVsF w1eaa' Vss"P"slsy H80
-Virtually all the bakers of Philadelphia,
with the exception of the chain stores,
which are said to sell a large proportion
of the bread consumed In the city, will
raise prices from five to six cents a loaf
next week.
Tho Kolb Baking Company was the first
to announce the Increase In an advertise
ment appearing In newspapers this morn
ing, tho change In price to take effect Tues
day, October 31, when nil loaves retailing
'at five cents will be advanced to six and
loaves retailed now at ten centa will be
advanced to twelve.
Managers of the chain stores say the
average -weight of their standard loaves Is
fifteen to sixteen ounces, or about three
ounces a loaf heavier than the average sold
by othAT bakers of the city. They claim
they are able to sell so much more for Ave
centa and to avoid raising their prices on
account of the greater economy of their
methods ot distribution, ,
CHAIN STOItES .KEEP PRICE
8, C, Chllds, of the Chllds Grocery Com
pany, said:
"We, have no Intention of changing the
price of our five-cent loaf, I believe there
is a tomorrow coming, and It has always
been my policy to play Into the hands ot
the man who will come back and think well
of us In the future,"
"We will keep the five-cent loaf as long
as possible, und have not given a thought
to raising tho price," said William M.
Crowe, vice-president of the Acme Tea
Company, "Of course, It I hard to tell
what may develop, but we will give our
customer the benefit of tho five-cent loaf
to the last minute that present conditions
permit, Our bread at; present averages
three ounces a loaf more than the bread
Ma4 by the large baking firms which sell
thmmgh other stores. Their costs of com
petition and distribution are avoided by
our vyKem.
At the eetieea ot the Bell Company It wae
aaldr- "at long as present rkt oondi,
tlona continue notralae will he ma4e la
bread peseee. Our present tve-eeat loaf
averages sixteen ouaeas."
Usorsje M. Dunlas, aerar f another
QUICK NEWS
REPORT OF U-BOAT'S ARRIVAL NOT VERIFIED
IJEWTOnT NEWS, Va., Oct. 37. The report on tho troter-front
that a submarine had passed in the Capes could not bo verified by the
'weather observer at Cape Henry or by naval observers at Port Monroe.
The truth of tho tcport was scouted at Cape Henry.
WASHINGTON, Oct. 27. Unofficial reports reached tho Navy
Department this afternoon that a German submarine had arrived at
Norfolk, Va. The department refused to dlocusa the reports, but priv
ate advices from Norfolk said no submarine had been clghtcd In the
harbor and that observers at Cape Henry had sighted none.
PHILADELPHIA SAVINGS FUND OFFICIAL DIES
H. Daniel Kcllncr, lor forty-five years paylnfj teller of the Phila
delphia Savings Fund Society, Seventh and Walnut strcots, died at
1 :30 p. m. today at his home, 1800 North Eighteenth street, after a
brief Illness,
TODAY'S RACING RESULTS
Tirst Laurel race, maiden 2-ycnr-qlds, 5 1-2 furlongs Sea Wave,
112, Xeogla, S4.00, $3.30, 2.80, won; Melting Moments, 112, But
well, 911.50, 0.00, second; Mao Murray, 112, Kleegcr, $0.00, third.
Tlme,1.0Sil-5,
'
NO AMERICANS
IN VILLA PLOT,
BAKER AVERS
War Secretary Joins Lan
sing in Disclaiming Po
litical Motive in Charge' f
ONLY MEXICANS BLAMED'
DETECTIVES GRACE COAL CARTS'
jMM6Vmww
JhKKrSta!-jrJip
i ft St asssslade'sl " lafi JSfL assssU
hLM ! etJ
In anticipation of further trouble from its striking driver-, the George
11. Newton Coal Company today Bent out its wagons under heavy
nrmtd guard, in some cases two men accompanying the driver.
FRENCH LINER CHICAGO AFIRE AT SEA
NEW YORK, Oct. 27. Advices received here Htato that the French liner
Chicago, with 300 paBsciiRcrs aboard, In on lire nt scat and bpeedlni for the Azores.
STEAMSHIP ROWANMORE SENT TO BOTTOM
BAIVriMOItl, Md., Oct. 27. Tho steamship llownnmore, ot tho Johnston Line,
one of tho largest vessels trading betwcop thin port and Liverpool, has hecn nunk.
Men Be r dispatches received hero rum London fulled to eIvo the location whero the
vessel was ucnt to tho bottom. Tho ship registered 10,320 cro3a tons, was equipped
with wireless and carried n crew of moro than fifty men. The Howanmore sailed
from here on October 14 with a general curgo.
ROOSEVELT EULOGIZES ARMY OF FRANCE
PAItlH, Oct 27. Kx-President Koosevelt of the United States has written a
glowing tribute to the French soldiers. The courage pf the French army, he uays,
excites the admiration of the wholo world. The lotter, which was printed here to
day, Bays, In part: "Tho glory of Franco is greater than It ever was before. The
valor and heroic devotion of her army excites the admiration of the whole world."
ELECTION BETS ABOUT EVEN MONEY ALL OVER COUNTRY
NEW YOIttf, Oct. 27. Klectlon betting, taking the country over, stands today
at about even money, although thero U some 10-to-9 betting In fuvor of Hughes.
About '50,000 was placed hero yosterday, chiefly at oven money, though some was
10 to 9, with Hughes on the long end.
DYNAMITERS ATTACK TROLLEY CAR IN NEW YORK
HEW YORK, Oct, 27. Violence has been renewed In the traction atrlke. An
attempt was made early today to dynamite a trolley car on the Sixth avenue surface
line. The car set off a percussion cap, but a stick ot dynamite that was lying on
the tracks failed to explode The police say strike sympathizers put the dynamite
In trfe street Street cars were attacked at several places.
TAFT ASSAILS GOMPERS FOR MISLEADING LABOR
ST. LOUIS, dct. 27 Former President Taft, speaking at St. Louis, accused
Samuel Qompers, president of the American Federation of Labor, of misleading
labor with reforonce to the Danbury hatters' case and pt shifting to the shoulder
of others tho responsibilities created as the result of his counsel.
Baker Statement to Press
Alleging Anil-Wilson PM
rpiIE War Department has re-
ccived deflnito Information, eon
firmed from other sources, that
enemies of tho Administration's
policy toward Mexico, in co-operation
with Villa or other bandita In
Mexico, havo arranged a spectacular
attack to bo made cither upon some
part of tho American forces or upon
some American community on the
border between now and the data of
tho election, for tho purpose of turn
ing tho tide of sentiment against the
policy which tho Administration has
adopted for tho protection of tb
border. It Is significant in this con
nection thnt both the State nnd War
Departments were advised that the
bandit forces operating at the
present time in Mexico aro being
paid in silver coin.
"Full particulars have been trans
mitted to General Funston and Gen
eral Pershing. All American forces
nrc, therefore, forowarncd and In
readiness for such nn attack."
GeatfaHvi iu Fits (s-.ea. fU ti
FEDERATION DELEGATES MOTOR TO VALLEY FORGE
Most of the delegates to the twenty.flrst annual convention of the tHate Federa
tion of.J'ennsylvanla Women motored today to Valley Forge. They bad servlaea
In the chapel there and then were the guests ot the P. A. It The active work
closed yesterday afternoon following an Americanization meeting In the Hmajmit I
(Street uapitav V"urttl- H"" wu' uiu ''!" whvgiuiuii un tvuequwn
held, almost twice aa large aa any preceding one, MraT Ronald 1. aieaaon.
dent, announced. a 'if
V
MAN FALLS INTO BAILING PltfCH; MA"k LOfiB HIS SIGeT
Falling Into a pot at feeUlne j4tch at I be Cloup Iroei WeHu, TMrty-aayeaifc aaj
FUfeert streets, "WUtsaea'Hasset. forty-one aid, Mftl MeUot Varna atree. ts
tfotd. at the Uaitnpgtr HoapUaJ, rbare be ww Uleas, to tea hia aifot Haaiett
aH (XT a plank wbJJMlkinc awuesi Um bottle vita)! aa Wo fee a4 kaada tjmet
tat to pot OH
WASHINGTON, Oct 27, Secretaries
linker And Lansing today carefully purged
ot all possible political significance the War
Secretary's startling announcement ot last
night concerning plotting on this side of
the border to bring about conflict between
this country and Mexico before November
7. Both declared that the statement had,.
In mind Mexican plotters, not American.
"I cannot imagine any American clttaen
so unpatriotic, heartless and wanton as ta
Join In such action," said the Secretary ot
State. '
"There Is not the slightest political sig
nificance In the tssulng ot the statement at
this time." Baker added. )Ie admitted that
some of the most Important, Information oa
which the statement was based reached the
department only half an hour beforClio Is
sued the statement yesterday afternoon.
llrferrinff to tha "enenilfts nf tha Aitmia
lstratlon" phrane in his statement. Baker
"The Mexican opponents of the de Facte)
Government of Mexico would be only tea
glad to complicate tha relation between tha
United States and Mexico. Our Information
Is that they thrnk this an appropriate time
to do so. The statemont made by the State
'Department ought to discourage any such
adventure on their part In that direction.
When pressed for a more specific state
ment of the Identity of conspirators on the
American side of the border, Baker said;
AltK FOrtMER MEXICANS
"Everybody knows that a large number
of men who have withdrawn from Mexlee
to this country aro constantly aggressive
against the Mexican Government. Any
sympathy for the Mexican bandits from
the American side of the line comes from
these sources."
Referring again to tho political phase
of the statement, Bak'r saldi
"The only possible suggestion of a po
litical purpose Is to prevent the people ot
Mexico from creating a disturbance of, a
political character In furtherance ot their ?
own designs.
The charge, made flatly and without ex
planatlon by the War Secretary, waa fel.
lowed by a supplementary statement from-
Secretary of State Lansing that "It was
Inconceivable that any American' would silly,
nlmself with Mexican to attack his owe)
countrymen." t t
Sources close to the State Department la- .
tlmated that the alleged plot was Instigated
by a Mexican nnti-Carrania revolutionary .
junta, which has branches In New York,
Kl Paso, Galveston and New Orleans, The
Department of Justice, It was said, wasoo- -crating
to get evidence against this organ
ization, made up of Mexican refugee pol
iticians, and until that evidence waa com
plete, nothing more could be said,
HAS BOMBSHELL EFFECT
The accusation has had the effect e a
bombshell on the national political situa
tion. The peculiar nature ot the original
Baker charge bitterly angered Republican
leaders here, and they Immediately got tto
touch with their headquarters la New York.
It already ts certain that the Republican
leaders will demand that Seeretary Baker
prove his case. The charge, aade only
eleven days before election, la felt by the
Republicans to be directed aaaiool these,
and it was emphatically asserted today that
they will Immediately force tbe Issue. If
Secretary Baker has peoa foeta )u, wUI
probably be farced to preduee at least aewjM
of them or become, the pVifci ei aa vigmn ,
,U ....: .Li.4 !. . ..,-. -& Jj .SB
on nv -jtsviatr mi m ivmvot m amarvjv
entirely for pallidal eWaat'
Oae thing the Baker sn lament
Is that Framlsse VUU la
a faster. Up W tbe priisjH; a
.atateHienta dealt wtth tfce Meodoaa
aUen have takes the M4Ja tUtt 14"'
was setaar ,tr eiitwiiasaam
In Meateaa aajaire.
The iaot Meat the War DeyartSBWt
compelled to sawo Ita lnfonaattoa to
orals Fnastoa aad 'Perahuig ladteata the
waa patsisr1 from au ureas Independent
of tie araar eporaliat along tke border on
a Ijoxtoea sou - a yuoatioa new ,
hs; assay clroieo U whether wttfc
Sa'Sauoissly alive Uenera) Pert
.erie-taol orders U get Villa'' ar t ba (d '
nesseo uo uue tut rewpooaioie utnetaj f. 1
the sMSMVSMK wouio so tigea tay.
" -JfrMttL
rWf P?P n
i:t
