Arizona State Fair and Exposition, November 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18, 1916
THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAH
10 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, FRIDAY MORNING, OCTOBER 27, 1916
10 PAGES
VOL. XXVII., NO. 101
IE KM
COLONEL AS HE
REIMS TRUTH
J. Republican A- p- Leased Wire
CHICAGO, Oct. 26. Chicago wom-
en cheered colonel ivooseveu louay , iiiinisiiauon a ttipAuuii iioucy. it ouu
when he appealed to them not to be ed that Generals Funston and Persh
influenced by the plea that Presidnt ing were forewarned and in readiness
Wilson had kept the nation out or war.
When he told them that he would fight
at the drop of the hat if necessary to
stop the murder of women and chil
dren, they met the announcement with
a ftie chorus 01 applause.
The colonel closed his western tour
lit re louay with two speeches, the first bandits in Mexico, have arranged a
exclusively to women, with not more spectacular attack to be made
than a scant score of policemen and either upon some part of the Ameri
reporters in the audience. He had been can forces or upon some American
asked, he said, to appeal especially to community on the border, between now
(he women who had been influenced ,and the date of the election, for the
bv the peace slogan but he had decided purpose of turning the tide of sentl
to make, he declared, exactly the same ment against the policy which the ad
appeal he would have made to men. I ministration has adopted for the pro-
I am not going to speak." he said, tection of the border,
"to what I might call the early Vic- "It is significant in this connection
torian aunt." ; that both the state and war depart -
Tture was no attempt to heckle the ments were advised that the bandit
speaker, the only interruption after he
had described pictures of women and
children killed in Mexico and said he
would have gone to war if necessary
to avoid that, several voices called,
" What about Hughes?" 1
"Mr. Hughes can be trusted to keep '
his word," answered Mr. Roosevelt. 1
When he says that he would not sub- !
mit to such deeds as the sinking of the
Lusitania or the killing of our citizens
in Mexico, he means what he says." I
"You have stood up and listened to
"The Star Spangled Banner" and to
'America,' and you have stood up he
cause they were written about a gen- ;
emtion of Americans that was not too
proud to fight. You may notice that
toe expression 'safety first' is not em-
bodied in either song. And when yoi
are told to vote for Mr. Wilson because
he kept us out of war, remember that
is something that cannot be said efther
of Washington or Lincoln."
He was interrupted again when he
told of returning from the border, :
here he said he found 150,000 troops, I
without knowing what they were there
for. "Wilson doesn't want them to
vote." called a woman. !
"1 Was froinff- to he more rhnritahlo
nd say that he wanted them there to I fers and two privates were cap
help make up the president's mind ' tured.
whether he was at peace or at war." j
"The democratic platform said that
the Mexicans have made war on our
people. The judge advocate general
ruled that the American army In Mex- 1
ioo was at war. So the Mexicans are
at war. and our army is at war, but
Mr. Wilson la at peace." I
The women alao applauded his ref
erence to hyphenated citizens. "There
is no room in this country for the per- '
petuation of different nationalities." he
continued. "To divide our citizens
along political racial lines is to be
t k m I"or,a'tr-as"n t thf republic.
To hold for this coiir.try only half an
allegiance is in reality to be hostile to
thia country, for in practice when the
crisis comes, the man whose loyalty is
n a fifty-fifty basis always shows
that his loyalty to the other country
cumes first."
Only the brief Introduction to the
address was devoted to suffrage. Mr.
Roosevelt referring to the women as
his fellow American citizens and urg
ine
mendm.ni in iV. rrt,i.rT
amendment to the federal constitution ,
m meVt'ng ton ght' " I
. Th.TC7 laughed at a huge Cub
wa bLndU vrr '',K,ri r-..in"1
talk tonight and declared that Presi- i
oeni w nson. Instead of carrying a big
Mick, had spoken harshlv and carried
a powder puff. He repeated that he
would have seized everv internprt C.r.
man ship immediately after the Falaba
and Gulflight Incidents and then let
the Germans bargain with him on how
mu'-h he should concede them.
"In Mexico, I would have put Leon
ard Wood in there and told him to do
just as we did In Cuba, to avoid trouble
if he could, but if he couldn't, not to
slap anybody's wrist. And if there was
ACCUSED IN SWEARSTHATANT1
CATHOLIC LECTURER SIT FIRST
rReoubllcan A. P. Leased Wire
OALVKHTON. Tex., Oct. 2. John
Copland, banker, on trial chargeifwlth
the killing of William Black, an anti-
'atholic lecturer In Marshall, Texas,
February 2, 1915, took the witness
stand today and denied he shot Black.
He declared the only shot he fired
was directed at Clarence F. Hall, the
lecturer's business agent, and said he
did not know who killed Black.
Aftr three other witnesses had been
examined the defense rested.
Copland di. not once contradict
himself. He a'id the lecturer was the
f:rst to draw his gun.
The most dramatic moment of the
trial came when he bared his body to
show the Jury the wound in his abdo
men he received when fired on by Hall,
so far the chief witness for the state.
He testified that as a result of this and
two other wounds, he was incapacitated
for nearly four months.
In response to questions Copeland
said he went to confer with Black and
to protest against his delivering a sec
ond lecture in Marshall attacking the
Institutes of the Roman Catholic
church. He declared he would not
have made the trip if he had thought
trouble would result.
He armed himself, however, he tes
tified, because he had been warned
that Black was "a bad man."
With the defense's ease rested there
la a possibility that the Jury will re
reive the case tomorrow night.
(0land said he had been cashier
of lh Marshall State Bank for the last
elev?n years and that he had been mar
ried nineteen years, had a 12-year-old
daughter and was a member of the
Romnn Catholic church and the Knights
ft Columbus. He said there was a
Catholic convent In Marshall and th.it
his daughter attended school there. His
three sisters also attended school at
the convent.
On the morning of February S. be
said, be went to the bank as usual,
THE WILD-EYED BAKER
" t- rt
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Oct. 26. Secretary
Pnker issued a formal statement to
night saying that definite information
had been received by the war depart
ment that a bandit attack upon Amer
ican troops in Mexico, or on an Amer
ican border town had been arranged
to take place now and on election day,
to create sentiment gainst the ad-
tor sucn an attacK.
The statement follows:
"The war department has received
definite information confirmed from
other sources that enemies of the ad
ministration's policy toward Mexico,
in co-operation with ilia or other
IT'S TOO TRANSPARENT
THIS POLITICAL SCHEME
AGAINST CAMPBELL
COWBOYS DEFEAT BANDITS
FIELD HKADQ CARTERS I
AM K.RICA N PUNITIVE F.XPKDl
I TION. Mexico. Oct. 26. (By radio
I to Columbus. N. M.) A party of i
thirty-five cowboys from the Santa
Ana ranch, one of the Hearst t
properties near Rabieora, attacked
and defeated a detachment of Vil-
i la's followers at a point about three
miles from San Geronimo, accord-
ing to a.report received tonight l
at lield headquarters. The number
of casualties is nott given, but It ts !
stated that two of the bandit offi-
war. when it was over it would be over,
As it is, peace still rages In Mexico." I
Colonel Roosevelt in his speech here I
tonight said in part: Iwhat purports to the original letters.
"There are many things this nation Also In reply to inquiries from pro
needs, but the two vital things are that Hbitionists tis to his attitude on the
it should be a nation and ahull prepare prohibition Question, the governor en
itself in soul and body so that by its closes copies of these letters,
own strength it may guarantee to n order that thev may have wider
continue to he a nation. publicity than the workers for the
"The most vital of all issues are those governor have seen fit to give them,
of Americanism and preparedness; and The Republican herewith presents
for there is no use to prepare to defend
or uphoM tne American nation unless
theli8 an American nation to defend.
"Cnless we succeed in fusing all of
our people into one thoroughgoing
American citizenship, into one Amer-
kan type, it is as certain as fate that
this nation, in the end, will be shat-
tered into fragments.
"We cannot attain our full stature
as men except as we attain it through
our common American nationality, and
this ls ,rue of our Political, our social,
,... h , ar,im,ir. iif w
ha" been striving for such unity and
l"' VZLZZ
J he courage and the eacrmee
that conm
earned "r, American citizens the re
spect of all other nations. The Span-
lf,n war brought us lnlo closer world
relations. -
4ve "lnl our prouuets ana manu-
factures into every country. We urged
and induced our citizens to go, with
their families, to the uttermost parts
of the earth in order to develop our
foreign trade and increase our market.
This wise policy for the extension tit
world trade was based upon the prop-
(Continued on Pag Five)
' Tom Jones, who was In Tucson dem
and there heard about a lecture deliv- tlon day and he says the bunch did
ered by William Black, the night be- aU thv could to skin Hunt. Jones
fore. John B. Teese. who worked In the fays Camobell can be counted on to
bank, told him, he said, and showed 1o th right tt-ing and that It In only
him Black's circular. t a, matter of time when booze will be
"Teese told me that Black, in his sold In AHzonn. He says there' Is no
speech, denounced priests and nuns and ''anger of the republican bunch put
declared the confessional infamous and tine n straw in our way.
Iniquitous," said Copeland. "Will meet you In lis Angeles after
"Teese said that Black stated In the lection If It roes our way and Tom
lecture that he had several encounters Campbell is el--ted Gov.
with Catholics, carried several bullets!- "Your Friend,
and one stab wound he had received I "GROVER HAYES."
from Catholics, was always on the look- An effort has been imde hv repuh
out foj trouble and went always pre- , Ilea n workers to find out who" "Grover
pared." Hayes" and "Bert Karnes" are, but so
Copeland said he discussed the lec-!far nobodv has been found able to
ture with several persons that day. He Identify them. There are lists of all
considered it "a direct attack on my the bartender who were working In
nome' . I Arizona at the time the st.-ite went
Among those he talked with were "dry" and for a long time beforethat,
oeorgi Ryan, an attorney, and John hut the name of neither Haves nor
Rogers, a contractor. That evening, he Karnes appears, old time bartenders
said, ne went by appointment to meet who are here now, In other lines, sav
.'Continued on Page Nine)
Four Injured In Smash
On Tucson Race Track
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
TLCHON. Oct. 26. Two Jockeys
and two soldiers were injured at the
Southern Arizona fair here this after
noon, when, due to a misunderstand
ing, an exhibition race was started
before Pattery A. of the I'tah Nation
al guard, which had been giving an
exhibition drill, had cleared the field
in front of the grand stand. The
horses plunged Into the battery as It
crossed the track leaving the field.
.vii.js a era .McGinnis, fancy rider of
Denver, is in a hospital, badly bruised
A MARE'S NEST
forces operating at the present time
in Mexico are being paid in silver coin.
'Full particulars have been trans
mitted to General Funstonand General
Pershing. All American forces are
therefore forewarned and in readiness
for such an attack."
No additional information could be
obtained from Mr. Baker, who left the
city before the statement was made
public, for Martinshurg, W. Va., to
deliver a campaign speech.
From other sources it was learned
that information concerning a plot had
been received through agents f the
department of Justice, stale department
representatives on the border, and also
through some other channel which has
not been disclosed. It is understood
that no military reports from the bor
der have mentioned the "subject. The
statements bear out this. Indicating
that Generals Pershing and Funston
received their first warning through
advices sent tonight by the war de
partment. It is stated on reliable authority al
so, that none of the evidence at hand
indicates what forces are behind the
scheme.
As yet, It is stated, there is not
(Continued on Page Five)
It had been known for some time
that Governor Hunt and his friends
intended near the end of the campaign
to make an appeal to the prohibition
vote by endeavoring to connect Mr.
Campbell with the "wet element
Just how it was to I done, was not
clear but it has now developed.
Here are two letters which have
been industriously circulated by the
friends of the iivernor throughout the
state, though some effort has been
made to kep them out of print; they
are Intended for the perusal only of
liersons of strong prohibition tenden
cies. Put copies of them have been
obtained and The Republican no
gives them statewide publicity. Sev-
rjjeral gentlemen who hav called upon
the governor, that is gentlemen known
to be prohibitionists, say that aftei
conversations with them, he incldcn-
tally refers to the letters and shows
' Hotel Turpln.
San Francisco. Cal..
Sept. 22nd. 13.6.
"Friend Bert
"Bu!r.ess is rotten on the coast in
lr galoon line. That fellow from
yUITia that used to 'tend tor at the
M mark has sold his saloon In Frisco,
H has gone to Phoenix to do somf
v.ork for Campbell. He is stopping lit
fcho Adams Hotel. I met him sonv
time a?o at a dump on the water
front and he said all the saloon men
. ,,. i,. ,., t-,... a tl,
nix we,
? u"
ere lined up for Campbell.
derstanrl that some ot trp nhl
s;,ionn keetiers In Presrott have Eon
back There are about 300 bartenders
and taioon keepers from all over Art-
. . w ro the coast wh.i
jae ben assessed from five dollars
nip for tho fund to help land Cnmi
Dell
"A committee in Phoenix or Tucson
are handling the coin nnd thev snv
the, rhmres are good and thnt things
will again be bright for the old gan
Mke them good old d.ivs. I gave ten
bwMn and sent it to Rogers who i.i
tending bar rn Ioa. If we skin Hunt
I will meet you In Los.
"Your Friend
"G ROVER HATF.8."
"Hotel Tsrpin
"San Francisco, Cal.
."Sept. 16, 1918
"Pert Karnes,
"Reno, Nv.
"Friend Bert
"It looks from the reports from Ari
zona th.it Hunt has copned the nom
ination for Gov. That means we will
have a bigger fight on our hands to
lert Campbell. I got a letter from
(Continued on Page Nine)
aii'i jipuuen up, nil Jesse James, a
Vickey, riding a mount belonging to
G. O. Walton, prominent stockman of
Idaho, suffered a dislocated shoulder
nnd an abrasion on the head.' The
riorse ridden by James Was killed.
Privates. Everett. Pack and Edward
neinivrg, oi wmt IJiKe Civ were
severly bruised but all continued
.work The batt.v. commanded hv
C'Hit'iln William We'.ih. will be re
viewed here tomorrow hv Governor
(William Sprv of I'tah. who has been
, Inspecting Utah troops' at Nogul
Villa's Progress
Strongly Denied
By Carranzistas
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
ATLANTIC CITY, N. J., Oct. 26. Re
ports that Villa was driving back Mex
ican de facto government troops in Chi
huahua were denied In a statement
issued today by the Mexican-American
Joint commission in session here. Ex
planation also was made of the absence
from Mexico at this time of the wives
of Generals Carranza and Obregon.
"Telegrams from General Trevino
state that he has 8.000 troops in and
around Chihuahua with which to meet
a Villista force of something more than
1.000." said the statement, "General
Treilno's family has lift Chihuahua
and gone to Juarez because of the plan
of General Trevino to take the field.
First Chief Carranza Is in the City of
Mexico with all of his cabinet ajid will
probably move to Queretaro within a
short time. Queretaro is the capital of
Mexico by decree made some eight
months ago. The constitutionalist
convention will be held there on No
vember 20.
Mrs. Obregon, who was married
about a year ago, is on her way to her
mother In Los Angeles. Mrs. Carranza,
who went to San Antonio to make pur
chases, will return to Mexico City In
a few .days with Colonel Juan Harra
gan. General Carranza's chief of staff,
who was recently in New York, and is
now on his way to San Antonio.
"The story published of Carranza be
ing in Queretaro as the possible pris
oner of General Obregon Is known to be
untrue. So is the story of General
Ozuna's death.
"Felix Diaz, who has been reported
to be In Oaxaca. Is known to be In Chi
apas, on the border of Guatemala,
which is said to be his head of supplies.
IRCR IN EAST
Republican A. Leaned Wire
Kxrept for th nnnoui cemer.t that
the Rumanians, before their retreat
from Tchernavoda. blew un the big
bridge spanning the Danube river, little
fresh knowledge of the real situation in
that sector of the world's war has been
vouchsafed by Rumanians or Teutonic
allies.
According to Petrograd. the force
of the violent blows which Field Mar
shal von Markonsen had been deliver
ing l.i his rapid drive northward in
DobrU'l.ia. has slackened somewhat, al
thougu Berlin asserts that the Teu
tonic allies are still making progre.
against rti ma'Hans and Russians.
Aling the Transylvania front Ru
maniars and Ausiro-C,rmans are still
engag-d in hard fighting. Berlin re
ports mat In the Trotus valley, south
of Paroituz and on the roads to Sin-
aya and Campulung, the allies of the
central poners have met with further
success, on the other hand. Buchar
est asserts that the Austro-Germans
have been driven from the entire west
ern rrtntlcr of Moldavia, northern Ro
mania, suffering heavy casualties, and
that I.: the Czula and Oituz valleys
me i-.umanian arms also have been
successful.
me Germans have delivered four
counter attacks against the newly won
French positions at Douaumont. but
like all of these efforts since the big
n-m ii uiivv iii i uesuay. tney were
succpssiuiiy witnstood". Similarly, a
violent attack against the British' in
the Stuff trench, north of the famous
.Stuff redoubt near Thlepval, was put
down, the Germans suffering consid
erable casualties and the loss of forty
one men made prisoner. Elsewhere on
this front there were only artillery
duels.
In the wooded region of the Car
pathian mountains the Germans es
sayed assaulH against the Russians.,
'nt according to the Pet roirr.-i rt -r of
fice tl-rlr efforts failed. In Volhynia
to the west of Lutsk, the Hussion.
without previous artillery preparation
att-mpted to storm with Infantry a
German position. The German artil
lery, however, broke the sortie.
Twj villages southwest of Iike
IJoiran. on the Macedonian froni r:i.
obrda and Jjtisltra have been ran.
tured by the French. Elsewhere in this
theater the fighting is being done
mainly by the artillery, although there
Is still infantry activity In the Cerna
river region.
The Austrlans are holding an Intone
artillery fire on the Italians' position
in forizia.
The British mine-sweeper Genista
has been torpedoed and sunk with the
loss of all of her officers and 73 of her
crew of 85 men.
Why Destroy It?
LONDON. Oct. 2. Everything In the
port of Constanza that would have been
useful to Field MarRhal von Macken
sen's forces was destroyed by Russian
sailors before the fort was evacuated
says a Reuter dispatch from Petrograd
today.
"The last train left Constanza in the
(Continued on rage Five)
Birth Control
Advocates Are
Under Arrest
fRepubllcan A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, Oct. 25. Mrs. Mar
garet .Sanger, birth control advocate,
and her assistant. Miss Fannie Miudell.
were arrested here today on warrants
charging them with Imparting infor
mation prohibited by law at a birth
control clinic, said to be the first in
stituted in the United States, which it
ts alleged thev were conducting in the
congested
Brooklyn.
Brownsvllle section of
A woman detective posed
as a woman seeking information at
the alleged clinic, where she found
twenty other ' women waiting in an
outer office.
Mrs. Sanger denounced the detective
when the latter revealed her identity,
and It was necessary for men officers
to carry Mrs. Sanger to a police wogan.
TEUTONS STILL
ON VICTORIOUS
HUGHES WILL BE AMERICAN
PRESIDENT AND HAVE THE
EST
American Warships Censured
hi House Of Lords' Debate
Fof Saving Victims Of U-53
Republican A. P. Leased Wire j
LONDON, Oct. 26. Some utterances
of the feeling that the activity of to take notice of this fact.
American warships in rescuing pass-1 The submarine question was brought
engers from the vessels sunk by the forward by Lord Sydenham, who ask
German submarine C-53 off the Amer-'ed if the particulars of the sinking of
let;; coast amounted to a breach of
neutrality, v.ere made today In the ,
house of lords hv Baron Beresford
and Earon Sydenham.
Lord Beresford is recognized by the
country as spokesman for the navy in
the house of lords. Similar opinions
have been expressed bv some of the
newspttpers and public men. as well as
py naval officers, and the matter was
1 1 ought up for discussion today bvj
requests for information from Vis-
count .Grey, secretary for foreign af-
fairs, Regarding the American policy
and possible action by the British
government. i
1-1.. . -....1 .V.... V.a
Viscount Grey's reply was that the
matter was one between the American
government and Germany. While
stating that the British government
was not yet informed us to whether!
any acts of the L -:3 constituted a
breach of the German promise to Lord Sydenham took the position that
President Wilson, he declared that the the presence of American warships
German submarines had committed actually enabled Germany to defy
violations of that pledge In other wat-.what he said president Wilson had de
ers many times. 'scribed as a sacred and indisputable
Foreign Secretary Grey, in the house ( rule of international law.
deprecated a discussion of the qucs- Baron Beresford expressed the opin
ions and said it was for the American ion that Germany intended to bring
government to decide in the policy and America into the war, so as to be
action required by the circumstances able to say she could not fight the
of the case. I whole world, and also because the
Baron Beresford said the action of United States would be a valuable as
American ships did not appear to he, set to her at the peace conference.
TRINE OF PAST
IS NEUTRALITY
SAYS WILSON
Reoublican A. P. Leased Wire
CINCINNATI, Ohio, Oct. 26 Tak
ing udvantage of a strenuous visit to
Cincinnati to discuss the relation of
the I'nlted States to the European war.
President Wilson today declared that
"this ts the last war that involves the
world that the Cnited States can keep
out of." He gave as his reason his be
lief that "the business of neutrality is
over" and that "war now has such a
scale that the position of neutrals
sooner or later becomes Intolerable."
He added that the nations of the world
must get together and say, "nobody can
hereafter be neutral as respects the
(Continued on Page Three))
HUNDREDS CHEER KIBBEY AS HE
PLEADS EOR TRUE AMERICANISM
(Special to The Republican)
MORENCI. Oct. 26 Before a large
audience that Jammed the big hall here
tonight Governor J. H. Kibbey. repub-
lican candidate for United States sen-
ator. told several hundred people that
American voters, were decidedly more
independent today than they ever have
.,.-.-11, mm in,-, Bir iickiiv- o,.u
red-blooded, that they didn't approve
of a policy of "watchful waiting" and
that they were not going to have such
a policy forced upon them. And the big
audience heartily agreed with the
"fortmost Ari-.onan" as they testified
by the vociferous applause.
Governor Kibbev outlined the truly ;
progressive and constructive platform
of the republican party and convinced
his listeners that the country, in such
a time as this, needs an administration
in charge of the nation's affairs that
will protect American lives and Amer
ican property at all times. j
He explained the inevitable Indus- '
tridl crisis that will face the nation at
the close of the European war. Of flow
a half-starved continent, densely pop
ulated, will be compelled to work for
practically nothing. The product, of
this condition of labor will be sent to
America, the most 'profitable market
place, and will be sold in competition
with the products of American laborers.
A tariff for revenue only, explained
Governor Kibbey, will be no protection
for. the American worklngmen.
Judge Otis J. liaughn. candidate for
supreme Justice, made one of the most
masterful addresses ever delivered in
this city. Judge Baughn convinced
the big audience that the only way to
make the higher judiciary strictly
noii-partisan is to change the political
complexion of the court in conformity
with the Intent of the statutes. His
speech was Interrupted time and again
by the great applause of bis listeners.
Joe V. Prochaska, republican candl-
date for secretary of state, made a tre-
- mendous hit. Mr. Prochaska reviewed
his long career of public usefulness and
told ot the score or more of positions
he has held in the state for which he
never has received any remuneration.
This ls the first time he has ever come
before the people and solicited their
support for an officie to which there
was any salary attached.
Norman J. McKenzie, candidate for
CABINET OBTAINABLE
quite within the bounds of neutrality
and thought the British were bound
tha British steamer Stechano and
the others had been received, and
whether the circumstances were in ac-
jcordarue with the German pledge
the United States. He referred to the !
questionable actions of the U-53
der the very eyes of the American!-
navy," and the decision of President!1
(Wilson which had resulted In the Ger- 1
man pledge. .
l ord Sydenham d edured: "Even I
before the exploits of the U-r,3 that I
pledge was torn to shreds. Yet the
government of the I nited States has
wide n. .lWs wh,t,r that .be -ink-
ing of neutral ships goes on almost
a .-..,.' Tl.. V. ..
every day. The Norwegians have lost
IS vessels in this one month, and what
must small neutrals think of this pow-
erful representative."
No life, he said, was lost because of
the presence of American warships.
ASRREIGME
f Republican A. P. Leased Wire
EL PASO, Oct. 26. Army officers
here who have been following Villas
military operations against the Car-
rninza trooos in western Chihuahua.
de lared toniuht that Villa was play
ing a shrewd pame In his efforts to
draw the Carranza forces out of Chi
huahua City so he could attack them
In the open country where he coui-1
use his guerilla style of warfare
The array officers explain Villa's
recent retirement from the vicinity of
Chihuahua City in this way. adding
that he is trying to get the Crranza
column under General Carlos Ozuna
(Continued on Page Seven)
mine inspector, completely captured
thp audience. Mr. McKenzie has been
.,, ,,, , - , . -
wlnnillS the support of thousands of
voters throughout the state but his
reception here was even more sincere
( than that accorded him in other cities,
His dry humor, his utility to convince
,,,-. ,, n. ia . min
and that the office needs a practical
man in this important position, won
for him the undivided support of the
audience.
J. Harrie -Otoonan, republican candi
date for corooration commissioner.
' nll Ih. Viiir rr,iu-H that th.L- chmtM
exercise the same care and discretion
in choosing men for public office that
they would in selecting officers in their
private business. With more than 20
years experience as auditor and in
executive positions with corporations,
Mr. Cloonan is eminently qualified to
serve the people well and efficiently,
he maintained.
Tomorrow the party will speak in
Safford where big preparations are
being made for their reception. Yes
terday afternoon they made a side trip
to Metcalf on a special train, which
was arranged by local republicans.
Here they talked before a good sized
audience.
1
1
Austrians Call Attention
To Atrocities Of Enemies
Reoublican A. P. Leased Wire
RERUN. Oct. 26 thy wireless to
Snyvillei. "The Austro - Hungarian
ministry of foreign affairs publishes a
new red book, telling how the enemies
of . Aiistro-Ilungary violated interna
tional law in 116 cases." says the
Overseas News agency. Contained in
the lift arc tho arrest of Austriarf
counsul officers at Saloniki, the use
of dum-dum bullets, the destruction
of a building bearing the Red Cross
sign, nnd utrociUes committed against
prisoners and wounded and defense
less civilians.
"The most atrocious details are giv
HECKLERS HAVE
TO ADMIT THAT
HE IS IN RIGRT
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BOSTON, Oct. 26. Charles K.
Hughes tonight, told an audience which
filled Boston's big arena that he pro
posed to be an American president.
" J." . l' """"era uy any sug-
" 5 muueii.e.
, 1 r""Pose," he added, "that if
"m elected, we shall have the ablest
v,lnet,j 5 this country can supply."
" ueciaieu mat ne
h.1. ma'"!3"1 . American rights and
,e ha.. fosolutelr no patience
" .. ti' " i h . i. ! f
,.(. irl ..,'. ,,,, '-j V , ,
K S
from which he cmo"
... "c -rtlll-.
I am amazed, Mr. Hughes said,
"that it is suggested that a proper,
attitude is that that policy of pro
tection should not be maintained be
cause it threatens our peace.
"It is possible that any such notion
should obtain in the shadow of Bunker
Mill ne asked. The audience rose
to its feel, and waving thousands of
American flags, shouted in answer:
"No."
Mr Hughes had prepared his
speech in advance, and while he ad
hered to it in substance, he made
radical changes of its nhraseol nev in
delivery. He reached the citv after
two addresses at Hartford and Provi
dence, untired and apparently in ex
cellent spirits. The big audience gave
aim a five minute cheer when he
entered the hall, and time after time
interrupted him with applause and
cheers during the delivery of his
speech.
Hecklers sought to question him on
various topics and one man who in
sisted finally made himself heard amiu
confu-ion. In doing so, the heckler
h:t 1 the aid of the nominee, who
ought to quiet the crowd and urged
that the questioner be allowed to
proceed.
"What specific policy will you take
in Meico'."' the heckler shouted.
"What specific policy will you take
in Europe'.' What are you going to
do with the eight-hour bill? What .'
the rest of the questioning was lost
in a salvo of boos and cat call.
"I do not konw," Mr. Hughes replied,
"just what sort of mess we will find
things in in Mexico next March, but
there are certain principj.es we shall
be governed by. First, we will not
meddle with affairs mat do not con
cern us. Second, when we say we will
respect the rights of small nations, we
will respect them in reanty. And third,
it shall be understood in Mexico, in
Latin America and elsewhere, that
American rights with respect to lives
and property shall be protected."
The audience applauded and cheered.
The heckler sat down and there were
no mere atempts to question th3
sjieaker.
Mr. Hughes' declaration of his inten
tion to be "an American president," if
elected, was interrupted by cheers and
applause at the conclusion of every
sentence.
"If I am elected, as I expect to be "
began Mr. Hughes. The audience
stopped him with cheering and from
various sections of the hall came
shouts of "you will be."
"If I am elected, as I expect to be."
he began again, "we shall have an
Ameycan administration with exclus
ively American policies, devoted to
American interests. I propose to be an
American president unswerved by anv
suggestion of foreign influence.
"We have no place in this country
for divided allegiance, for ulterior pur
poses, for any warping of policies to
suit the purpose of any foreign power.
We stand solely and exclusively for
American interests, for a dominant
Americanism, to the end that we may
as a great united people, with a com
posite but loyal population, press for
ward to the goal that every true Amer
ican desires."
After the cheering had 'ended. Mr.
Hughes declared that "first of all," he
would "start right."
"I regard the president as the busi
ness manager of the affairs of the
United States." he said, "responsible
to all the people for the wisest, most
careful, most economical, most com
petent administration of the public
business: as an executive of vast au
thority to the end that there may be
efficiency in every department. I have
no patience with the idea that we
should make the high duty of adminis
tration bend to mere politics or par
tisan expediency.
'We are living at a time when it
is necessary for the United States t
gird itself that it may take its proper
(Continued on rage Two)
en concerning the Ferhs, who during
their retreat, shot all their prisoners
who were unable to march. An
Austrian military surgeon states that
of 63.000 Austro-Hungarian prisoners,
3&.0UO to 4i.00 died in captivity.
"The red book also contains docu
ments concerning Russian atrocities
in Galicia, where, in some districts,
damage of from 400,000,000 to 500,000.
000 marks resulted from looting and
ini-endarism.
"Details are given ot Russian ill
treatment of Ukranlans enlisted by
the Russians from their native coun
try is appuling."
1
