TTTF T>ATTV-TFT FITR AMI ^ )
F?ir tonight ?nd Saturday. Utile B M B M A ? Jr 1 ft I lit H B i i i 9 A iH B WI i ^ 1 W ? | Wm (lie ?<>lnl rlrmlmlnn of the Tole- I
i-luuiec In trmpi'ratare. ^ 1 1 ^ i itroin Ttiurndny.
V / EXCLUSIVE ASSOCIATED PRESS SERVICE BY PRIVATE WIRE V V
'
ESTABLISHED 1861. ? CLARKSBURG, W. VA., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 27, I'M.;. PRICE TWO CENTS
West Virginia State Federation of Labor Indorses
Judge Ira Robinson and Opposes John J. Cornwell
CORN WELL'S aMlABOR
o I
in STATE UPHOLD OISTIKGIIISHED
Charles Huggins, President of Labor Federation, Signs a
Stirring Appeal to Laboring Men to Join in Defending
Dangerous Effort to Prostitute State Government.
POINTS TO CLARENCE WATSON AS FOE;
DECLARES HE BACKS ROMNEY CANDIDATEj
Claims Robinson's Dissenting Opinion in Martial Law Cases j
Stamped Him as True Friend of Human Rights by
Standing Like Stone Wail for Laborers.
CHARLESTON, Oct. 27. in a statement addressed to the laboring
people of West Virginia and signed by Charles Huggins, of Wheeling, pres-;
ident of the '"'est Virginia State Federation of Labor and many others
representing ine various organizations of workingmen, including miners, j
street car employes, tin workers, glass workers, Btogie makers, railroad
trainmen, bricklayers and other organizations, made public here this
week, a stirring appeal in made to the laboring people of West Virginia !
to "Join in defeating at the polls in the November election the dangerous'
and vicious effort made by Clarence W. Watson, head of the Fairmont:
Coal Company, in behalf of John J. Cornweli, the Democratic candidate for,
governor." Representative laboring men of all political afllliatlons signed
the address, many of them being Democrats.
The statement compares the attitude toward labor of the respective can- j
didates for governor. Of Mr. Cornweli it declares. "We find that the Demo
cratic nominee for governor, John J. Cornweli, both as a public ofllclal and '
as a publicist, has been unfriendly to labor. Mr. Cornweli," it declares,
"is being supported by men whose lives show them to be bitter, relentless'
foes of the laboring men?men like Clarence W. Watson, the directing
hea of the great non-union Consolidation Coal Company, of Fairmont, j
the largest operating company In West Virginia."
Iljauds Martial Law Stand.
4. Of Judge Robinson's record the statement declares, "As a citizen, coun
ty official of Taylor county and state senator, his treatment of labor was i
eminently fair. As a Judge of the supreme court of appeals In his dissent
ing dpinlon In the new famous martial law case, he stood llgc a stone wall,
not only In the Interest of labor alone, but of liberty and justice. By that!
decision he proved that he was a friend *of human rights In the very just
sense of the word."
"Feeling as we do. we urge every man who has the Interest of the
state at heart, who believes in a square deal for the laboring man, who j
believes in broader liberty and a fuller justice to cast his vota for Judge
Ira E. Robinson, and thus prove that labor does defend its friends and
has a heart of gratitude."
Statement In Full.
The statement in full follows:
To the Citizens of West Virginia:
Believing as we do that it is vital to the best interests of the state that i
labor should be fairly treated, thus creating friendly relations between em
ployer and employe, and realizing that there is a concerted effort being'
made to secure control of the state government by elements that are, Judfi|
ipg from the last, bitterly antagonistic to the best interests of labor and the;
public welfare in the state of West Virginia, we feel it our duty as repre
sentative of the laboring men to call your attention to conditions that ex
ist in the present campaign.
The Republican candidate for governor, Judge Ira E. Robinson, madej
a record upon this question at a time when all thoughts of being a candi
date before the people must have been absent from his mind. As a citizen, I
county ofllclal of Taylor county and state senator his treatment of labor i
was eminently fair; as a Judge of the supreme court of appeals in his dis
senting opinion in the now famous martial law case, he stood like a stone
wall, not only in the interest of labor alone, but of liberty and justice.
When Judge Robinson wrote his decision in the case against the bull pen i
he was not writing for campaign purposes. Uy that decision he proved j
that he was a true friend of human rights, in the very best sense of the1
word.
Cornweli Always Unfriendly.
On the other hand we iind that the. Democratic nominee for governor,!
John J. Cornweli, both as a public otlicial and as a publicist, has been un
friendly to labor. The record made by Mr. Cornweli as a state senator
and as an editor Is public property, and proper subjects to criticism. This1
record speaks for itself. Mr. Cornweli Is being supported by men whose j
lives show them to.be the bitter, relentless foes of the laboring men?men'
like Clarence W. Watson, the directing head of the great non-union Con
solidation Coal Company, of Fairmont, the largest operating company in 1
the state of West Virginia, operating approximately fifty-one coal mines?j
a man who will not allow a representative of labor In the counties where
his interests operate and which he dominates; a man who so conducts his
mining plant that, to get across to any of the men employed In or about;
the works, the representative of labor amust get by the notorious vrecklng
crew, which can only be done after being mutilated and beaten up.
Taylor Vinson Named.
Again, men like Taylor Vinson, the notorious corporation lawyer of
Huntington, whose record as chief corporation lobbyist before the WeBt
Virginia legislature in opposition to all humane constructive and progressive'
law, as an unrelenting toe of labor, have left their party to oppose Judge
Robinson because of his known friendly record as to labor and to support
John J. Cornweli because they bellpve that he will be, if elected, a willing1
instrument In their hands in the mutilation of constructive legislation and j
opposed to the Interests of the laboring man.
Yet we find Watson, union labor's bitterest foe, in absolute and
undlsruted control of John J. Corn well's candidacy, moving the Democrat
Ic headquarters, deposing chairmen and leaulng Cornweli around with a
leash.
Vote for Judge Robinson.
Feeling as we thus do, we urge every man who has the true interests
of the stato at heart, who believes in a square deal for the laboring man,
, who.i believes In a broader liberty, a fuller Justice, to Join with us in de
feating at the polls in the November election, this dangerous and vicious
effort to prostitute the governmentof a great state and to this end we earn
estly urge every' laboring man In the state, regardless of partisan politics j
(Continued on page five, 1st section)
MILLER CONCERT
JS MUCH ENJOYED
By an Audience That Packs the j sisted by Mr. Arthur Walsh, a capable]
Spacious Auditorium of the violinist from the Edison laboratories.!
Masonic Temple The pcrformam;c took p'*"*ln the!
" ' Masonic temple auditorium, which was
The Palace Furniture and Piano
Company, dealers in the Edison In
struments, furnished the people of this
city and 8krroundlng community with
a unique entertainment of a brilliant
nature last evening, whon Miss Chris
tine Miller appeared In concert, with
the Edison laboratory re-creation of
fear own voice. Miss Miller was as
I
filled to Its doors by a deeply interested
and appreciative audience. The whole
maiu floor and balcony were filled, and
additional chairs were added. Even
then, fully 400 people stood during the
concert and hundreds wero turned
av.iv. Cards of introduction had been
(Continued on pose i, second Sect.)
THE IDES OF FEBRUARY 1911
"That Was the Most Unkindest Cut of All"
WILSON'S MEXICAN
POLICY COWARDLY
Indeed, Too Much So to Keep
the Respect of the World or
Our Self-Respect.
CHICAGO. Oct. 27.?Colonel Theo
dore Roosevelt in the speech here
last night with which he concluded
liis western tour, attacked the Mexi
can policy of the Wilson administra
tion as too cowardly and impotent to j
keep the respect of the world or this
country's self respect and criticised I
the administration's action in putting!
through the Adamson hill for what,
he called political efTect. He said In I
part:
"There are many things this nation1
needs, but the two vital things areI
that it Bhall be a nation and prepare
Itself In soul and body so that by,
its own strength it may guarantee toj
continue to be a nation.
"The most vital of all issues are I
those of Americanism and prepared-1
nosB; and of these Americanism must!
come first, for there is no use to pre
pare to defend or uphold the Ameri-j
can nation unless there Is an Ameri-]
can nation to defend.
Unless we succeed in fusing all
of our people into one thorough going
American citizenship, into one Ameri-1
can type, it ia as certain as fate that
this nation, in the end, will be shut
tered into fragments.
"We cannot attain out full stature
as man except as we attain it through
our common American nationality,!
and this is true of our polJtical, our;
social, our literary and our artistic i
life. We have been striving for such|
unity and solidarity. The Civil war
saved the union. The courage and!
the saciiQce of the inen f/f that great i
conflict earned f??- American citizens
the respect of .Ml ether nations. The|
Spanish war br >?tt,' i us ?,;l? closer j
world relations, wo assumed weight-j
ler obligation.' iu h.teruutioaal af
fairs.
"We sent our p'oducis and mnnu-l
factures into every country; we urg-|
ea and indue*'! our citizens tat. go,
with their families, to the uttermost |
parts of the earth in order to develop |
our foreign trade and increase our
markets. This wise policy for the ex
tension of world trade was based on,
(Continued on page one, 2d section)
EXPONENT AGAIN
RUNS TO COVER
When It is Cornered and Re-!
fuses Positively to Play
Fair at All.
______ ;
Cornered again in Its mlsrqpre-1
peAations, the Exponent refuses to1
play fair as usual. Here In tho In
stance:
"Clark9burg Office.
"October 26, 19XG.
"Editor of Clarksburg Exponent.
"Olarksburg, W. Va.
"l)oar Sir:
"In a report of the Republican j
meeting held at Wolf Summit yes-'
terdny evening, published In this j
morning's issue of yout paper, you !
state that I said, using your lan
guage: "A, Democrat was not flt to !
sit In a Republican meeting.' This
Is not true. Not only did I not make
any such statement, but I did not
say anything that could be so con
strued.
"It *o' happens that many of my
Mends are Democrats. Indeed, my
best friend, the Hon. W. W. Bran
non, my law partner,, 1b one of tho
.most prominent and active J>*<no
crats In the state. If moved by no
other consideration than a sense of;
fairness to my friends. I would not ]
be guilty of casting such a reflection ;
upon them. ?
"With the many other perversions t
of the truth contained In your report
of the Wolf Summit meeting I shall
not deal, as It seems to be the pruc- ,
tlce these days for partisan newspa
pers to go to any imaginable extreme
to distort newB of a political nature.
With that practice upon the part of
your paper I have no quarrel, but
when you represent me as making a
statement reflecting upon Individual
Democrats, you not ony place me In
a. falBc light, but you also do me a
great Injustices.
"I request the publication of this
letter upon the same page of your
paper ns that upon which the report
of this meeting was published, and I
oak you to retract the'statement.
"'Very truly,'
"B. S. STATHERS."
Here la what the Exponent said In
stead of publishing the letter and
what It did say is stack in a remote
?
? .SPECIAL JI'ItY SWORN I.V
+ TO IMVI-;>T!tiATE DEATH.
+
4* (BPCCIAI. TO 1MB Tt LkOft AW>
<? FAIRMONT, Oct. 27. - A spec
4? ial jury has been sworn in to
4? investigate the death of Chief
4? L. M. Jones of the mine* rescue
? car from Pittsburg, who met
? his death in the Jamison mine
4? near here on Friday following
4* the explosion while exploring
4* the workings of the mine. A
4* jury has also been called which
4* will make an Investigation into
4? 'the cause of the explosion In
? which ten miners lost their
? lives. Six bodies are still in
4? the mine.
4
Will Take Crowd to Shinnston
Saturday Evening to Hear
Judge Ira E. Robinson..
|
Great Interest is being taken by
local Republicans in the political rai-|
ly to be held at Shinnston Saturday
evening with Judge Ira E. Robinson, j
nominee for governor, as the princi
pal speaker. /This will be Judge Rob-,
inson's only speech in Harrison coun
ty. and as a result Shinnston will be 1
filled with visitors from all sections{
of t?e county.
SO many local people have told
Chairman Roy E. Parrish that they j
were going to attend the meeting.;
that the chairman has chartered a
special interurban car to take, the
crowd from this city. The car will
leave the local interurban station at
the southern end of the Sixth street;
bridge at 6:30 o'clock Saturday
evening. The special car will return ;
to this city after the men-ting is over.
Gregory's First Regiment band of!
this city will go along and furnish!
music for the occasion.
: 1
part of the pepar where It was not
Intenden to be fen:
"SAYS HE DIDN'T SAY IT. i
"The Exponent Is In rocelpt of a
letter from Mr. Blrk S. Stathers ut i
Weston, In which he Bays thnt he did
not say In his Wolf Summit speech
thnt 'A Democrat wns not fit to sit In
a Republican meeting." .
"The report of the Wolf Summit
meeting referred to wib taken over
the phone and published In this pa
per as reported."
The licked cur usually seeks
refugo In some remote place. ?
' . .*?*- ' " . > v .
BITTER FOt OF ALL LABOR DILLS
INTRODUCED III STATE SENATE
IS SHOWN TO BE
West Virginia Federation Heads and High Officials of Other Im
portant Labor Organizations Very Promptly Accept the
Defy John J. Cornwell Made in a Speech.
OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS OF STATE STARE HIM IN THE FACE
Records of the State Senate Show the Democratic Nominee for
Governor Opposing Labor Bills in the Senate When He
Was Member of It and Now He Faces the Truth.
CHARLESTON, Oct. 27.- "I defy uny man to go Into the stuto eapilr
bring out my record uh a member of the state sennu and bIiow any voi
of mine against the Interests of labor, organized or unorganized. I dof ;
to bring a solitary bill where 1 voted against them," was the ringing
rhallenge of John J. Cornwell, Democratic nominee for governor in hl.< ?
spoecb heres last night in replying to a public statomont issued by Charles
Muggins, president of the VV'wit Virginia Federation of Labor and many
other labor leaders of the stato denouncing Cornwell as "the tool of Clar
ence Watson" and appealing to all laboring men to vote for Judge Ira E.
H<?VdnHon. "a friend of labor tried and true." ?
The laboring men accepted Mr. Cornwall's challenge and last night
they gave out another statement giving Cornwoll's record as a member of
the state senate during the legislative sessions of 1903 and J905 at which
Cornwell either voted openly against practically every labor measure
coming up at both of those pensions or was recorded as "present but not
voting."
The record-of tho senate shown that Cornwell an a member of the sen
ate Judiciary committee concurred in unfavorable reporta ou the fellow ser
vants J)ill. the bill to prevent (uuployment of children under fourteen years
of age in factories and mills, ttte bill providing for a commission to regu.aH
railroads; a bill tlxing the hours which shall constitute a day's work in
state employment being an eight hour bill; a bill to protect the lives of
railroad employes and the traveling public; a bill tlxing the liability of cor
porations for personal injuries and defining such liability.
The record discloses further than Cornwell was prcsont but refused to
vote on the bill establishing a miners' hospital, that he refused to vote on
the bill providing an Increase for salaries of school teachers and that he
voted against the compulsory school law, that he refused to vote for bill re
lating to air measurements in mines and better protection of miners; that,he
refused to vote on a bill prohibiting the employment of children in mines,
in 1 11k and factories and also refused to vote ou a bill providing for lire es
capes on buildings where labor In employed.
It Is pointed out that Cornwell as a member, of the committee on rail
roads did vote for a favorable recommendation on a bill relating to the in
jury of'railroad property, which was backed by the railroads.
Tho committee of laboring men who accepted CornweU's defy to prove
his antagonism to labor made public last eight the following detailed state
ment of his legislative record.
Senate bill No. 3, session 1903, entitled "The fellow servant bill."
A bill declaring corporations, liable for injuries received by their ser
vants and employes. Bill reported back from the Judiciary committee with
the recommendation tiiat It do not pass. Senator Cornwell concurring
therein, he b?-lng a member of the Judiciary committee.
Senate bill No. 0, session 1003, a bill to prevent the employment of chil
dren under 14 year* of age in factories, workshops and mines reported back
from tin* Judiciary committee with recommendation tiiat it do not pats. Mr..
Cornwall being a member of that committee and concurring in the recom--,
mendatlon.
Senate bill No. 23, session 1903, a bill providing for a state railro&d
commission, prescribing Its duties, reported btfck from committee on rail
roads with the recommendation that. It do not pass. Mr. Cornwell being* &
member of that committee and concurring in the recommendation.
Senate bill No. 32, session 1903, in regard to the establishment of &
miners hospital. Passed the senate January 26, 1903. Mr. Cornwell be
ing present and not voting.
Senate bill No. 19, session 19*13, a bill fixing and regulating the hoars
which shall constitute a day's work in state employment. Reported back
from the Judiciary committee with the recommendation that it do not pass.
Mr. Cornwell being a member of that committee and concurring Ln this
action.
?Note?This was a regular eight hour day bill and at that time Mr.
Cornwell was not in favor of it. Can a leopard change Its spots?
Senate bill No. 60, session Y&03, a bill to better protect the lives of
railroad employes and the traveling public. Reported back from,-*the judic-!
iary committee with the recommendation that It do not pass. "Mr. Corn
well being a member of this committee and concurring therein.
Senate bill No. 19, session 1903, a bill relating to injury to rail
roads. Referred to committee on railroads. Reported back with the rec
ommendation that it do pass. Mr. Cornwell being a member of t^at com
mittee concurring in the recommendation.
Note?You will not that anything pertaining to railroad property Mr.
Cornwell was ln favor of, and any thing pertaining to human safety, he
was against.
Also hote that Mr. Cornwell is riding a railroad pass and that he is
counsel for the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company.
Senute bill No. 43, session 190B, a bill relating- to school teachers and
Increasing the salaries thereof. Passed senate February 6, 1905. Mr.
Cornwell present and not voting.
Note?Mr. Cornwell voted against the compulsory school law.
Senate bill No. 53, session 1905, a bill tlxing the liability of corpora
tions for personal injuries and the tlxing of such liabilities. Reported back;
from the Judiciary committee with their recommendation that It do not
pass. Mr. Cornwell was a member of that committee and consurred.
therein.
Senate bill No. 80, session J905, relating to air measurements, the:
better protection and safeguarding of employes passed senate Jan. 25r
1905. Mr. Cornwell being present but not voting.
House bill No. 81, session 1905, a bill entitled "prohibition of em
ployment of children in mines, mills and factories." passed February 28/
1905. Mr. Cornwell present but not voting.
House bill No. 82, session 1906. a bill relating to Are escape sin build
ings, wherein labor is employed, passed February 24, 1905, Mr. Cornwelt
present but not voting.
+++++++++++++++
?
* IfKRE'S YOUR OPPORTUNITY.
?
+
+
*
+
*
*
*
*
*
+
United States Senator Wil
liam E. Chilton will speak iu
the court house Saturday even
ing. It is understood that
ushers will pass among the
crowd, selling stock in North
Carolina gold mines. Colonel
Wylle Beall will be unable to
be present and testify to the
great value of the stock. Tnii.
is regrettable.
On the Somme River as Se
by the Official German
War Staff.
R. F. Laxzell, of Morgan town,
transacting business hero.
H. W. Kelley, of Charleston, Is
Visitor ben. ?* i
mm
BERLIN. Oct 27.?One the i
bank of the Sorting last night <
artillery Are against the ?
trenches ln the sector of Fresnes i
Mazaucourt and Chanlnes held
a strong attack which was under prep
aration, says the German official sti
raent Issued today. North of the Bon
last night the only
those of reconnoltertnx
?wgiettenti mtM
engagements i
detachme
