'"X - I - ft rV
1 I i a . 1 " it
0 r
VOLUME 24
TOLEDO, LINCOLN COUNTY. OREGON,
AY. OCTOBER 27th, 1916.
NUMBER 36
- . v
der.
'NEWPORT
A. mass meeting was held in the
High School Assembly Hall on Monday
evening for the purpose of discussing
ion of the amendments to be voted
Not. 7th, 1916. The meeting was
organized by electing F. M. Carter,
chairman and L. C. Smith secretary.
The first amendment discussed was,
The Peoples Land and Loan Law,"
R. A. Bensell, S. O. lrvln, Mr. Water
nary and II C. Smith taking part In
the discussion. The women discuss
ing it as they sat at their desks. It
was the opinion of the Speakers that
H these amendments should be care
tally studied by every voter. This
amendment was considered to be vic
ious and dangerous to the welfare of
the people. The Single Item Veto
amendment was discussed and consid
ered to he a good and wholesome law,
as It would enable the Govenor to hold
an MtnL-VAflrnnt InrlRlfltlnn in check.
TUb law should be passed. The Sin- , October-something unusual for ud
tfe Tax proposition has been voted , coln County-
down several times and It should be j Farmers are busy In these parts
again. trying to got vthelr potatoes in before
i it rains everyone reports a Dig crop.
program was rendered and nice lunch- his family left Sunday morning, Oct. John Crooks the Watklno Alan was
eon served and a good social time was 8, for Peak where they will make It 'a the city Wednesday,
had by all present. Mr. Fitzgerald ' their home and school the children. Vote 312 yes and repeal old Sunday
assured us the road would be built but Mrs. Pond and Lawrence Martin . me law pag8ej m j864
Dciore mat is done tney win sun nave were tsunaay cauers.
to raise 176,000 and the harbor im- Z. A. Kessl is harvesting ,some fine
proved and the channel deepened, to tubers. .
about 35 foot on the bar and this will ! Messers Jones and Sharp of Racks
require the bonding of the county to ' Creek: were making 'a whole sale pur- this city last Friday,
raise money to pay half the expense chase of swine from Mr. Kessl. Mr.
Kessl makes a specialty of red hogs
myriad of pigs on the beautiful Flegles
Creek flats. It looks good to me.
C. F. Llndley Is over at James Hol-lingsworths.
Frank Mulvany is taking the annual fclty thli week on buglneM
Hunt with Hathaway tnese Indian
summer days wished It "war" me.
Gale Shane returned. ' -
Miss Edna Lewis was a
for Portland yesterday.
Messrs. Rochester and Huffman were
down from Elk Wednesday. I Jos Wlndred the Slletz
was transacting business
passenger ; Vivian Cartwright of Harrlsburg
passed through to Newport Wednesday
' evening.
Mrs; Frank Carson returned the first i H. C. Nelson was down from Elk
of the week from Portland. . City Wednesday.
j Wolverton Orton of Orton was
from
of making the improvement. A very
enthusiastic audience was present to
assist In tendering this kind reception
to these railroad people. It was highly
appreciated by them. .
(Note One page of this correspon
dence could n6t be found when the
letter was opened. We trust that this
misfortune does not Impair the news
value of this article. Editor.) '
( Phil Elting from over SileU way
was In town a week ago to day.
1 Mrs.
in ! A. W. Morgan arrived down
Portland Wednesday evening.
Mrs. N. H. Sherwood spent a few
days the first of the week In Albany.
down
Wm. Scarth arrived
from Elk. City last evening.
i- Dr. Roberc of Portland, was In thn
E. M. OUson, who recently purchas
ed the George Hodge place on Big Elk.
was transacting business In the city
Wednesday.
LOWER FARM
1 Attorney B. F. Jones came up from
Newport this morning. ,
Carl Moore was a passenger for
Portland Wednesday. Invitations are
nut flnnnnnplnv ho wodrilnv if 1M
1 J. Furgeson of Falls City was a To- Moore and M,ag FrancIg Avery to be'
ledo visitor Tuesday. j BOiemnized Wednesday November 1st.
D. II 1 Ma. M 11 - a
Th rww m0i, nf h winin, l v " onets inaian Mr. and Mrg, Oe0i chambers are now
The October meeting of the Helping Agency was called to Portland on - o
Beautiful weather for .the last of Hand Club which wns held at the home business Saturday ST . , n .,
.... - . ... ,UD""!B Doiuruay. Tjiii gtrBet m and Mm. Hwavr.a tlv.
Albert Carey was a passenger for ,nK on their place up Run Bottom.
ONA
. The next subject was slightly dis
cussed but no definite conclusion 1
reached. The Constitutional Amend
ment Permitting the 'Manufacture and
Sale of Four Per Cent Malt Liquors
In the State. The consensus of opin
ion seemed to be In facor of this
amendment because of economic con- !
Mention and because light beer Is,
harmless and healthful drink. This
of Mrs. Laura Weber was very well
attended there being 14 members pres
ent The program of the day was as
follows: ' , -
Instrumental music Miss Helen
Phelps, parliamentary law practice In
organizing by the entire club took a
considerable portion of the tlrao.
Oregon City yesterday, where he will
work this winter.
Mr. and Mrs. Wm. Davis, and niece,
Miss Weaver, and Mrs. H. C. Weaver,
merchant
in Toledo
Wednesday.
Mr: Hulburt who has rented the
Stanton place is busy hauling out bay
this week. Mr. Hulburt is a cousin
to Claud Hulbert wl;o was In charge of
the creamery here several years ago.
THE CREOLE BELLS
R. M. S.
The Civic Club will give an old time
Minstrel Show affair, they send an
invitations now to you, they'll have a
dance by little girls with heads of fluf
fy hair, a dance by blackface picks
nnles too. A speech by little Buster,
who'll sell you "algs" fer pies, the
proud result of chickens raised with
care; they calculate one "alg" at
least will fetch a first class prize, at
I the Ladles old time Minstrel Show
'affair.
i There's only one more week to wait
J. L. Walker and daughter of Upper all of Woodland, Washington, have afore the time is here, when we'll doll
Slletz were in the city the first of the' heen visiting this week at the W. P. !
week. ; McGee home In this city. Mrs. Davis
Is a sister of Mr. McGee's.
Mrs. Johnny Peterson is entertain'
Recltatlon.Mrs. Hester Coovert, song the adia8'whlBt club this after- Parted toaay for thelr nome traveling kinder flg'rln' on a boau. Our men
almost completed.
Mr. and Mrs. C. E. Sheffield of New
port came over Sunday for a day or so
to fish, returning home Tuesday.
n. . , . . . , , . .,. Mrs. S. C. Young of Independence Is
m eliminate the desire for strong al- i . "
Joe Kosydar and A. C. Crawford
are buying cattle again, they expect to
ship another car load or two.
Al Taylor, whose house was recent
ly destroyed by Are, has his new one Mrs. Gertrude Oh mart, demonstration , . via auto.
in crocheting. Mrs. U M. Commons. : I Newport won the football game from
The pie demonstration by Mrs. J. Co"'" went to Glen- p
M. Bower, and Mrs. A. H. Phelps was y, where her parent, are
a very popular numuer.
The club decided to celebrate their
ourselves In ruRln' duds and go, we're
thlnkln' of the women folks, we'll
They de- meet from fer and near. Our girls are
eoholtc beverages. It will also keep
the business In the state and keep the
money at home. The passing of this
law does not re-establish the saloon.
These amendment, will be further die-
Mr. Chandler is hauling potatoes to
SHetx for Joe Kosydor.
Mr. and Mrs. C. E. Sheffield. Mrs. A.
C. Crawford and Mrs. S. C. Young
iZt. the ' Pt Mr. and Mrs. L. C. j chat before the adjournment of the
cussed next Monday evening at the T . . ' . I lnh whl(,h mtu. wlfll Mr. j M
1 E-.,t.. I. Invito In ..""" -
"" - I nnr. Km 11
m 1 . , - --.
v -
first anniversary Dec. 9, with a play
and dance at the grange hall. After
the business was completed a delicious
luncheon was served by the hostess,
Mrs. Weber, snd all enjoyed a social
ncAtad.
. I a vncA hard nmfl snd It wah anvhndv'a
Mrs. Roy Walker departed Tuesday ' game until the whistle blew on the
morning for Gardiner where Mr. Wal- last down. Newport sent up a good
crowd of rooters to pull for their team,
ker Is em
1 N H
Albany 1
are talkln' politics, :ike they alters do,
you see, the Interest that they tata Is
minus mirth; but then they'll buy a
ticket and the show they'll go to see,
and tell the folks they got their mon
ey's worth.
An they'll hera some southern music,
by a real bid time quartette, the kind
attend these meetings.'
Tuesday evening the Rod and Gun
dub gave a big feed and social at the
Crab Rooms about 75 husky, stalwart
members of the Club were present
Several visitors were also present
among them we noticed W. M. Hill,
candidate for Assessor on the Demo-,
tratlc ticket J. H. Fitzgerald, Man-1
UPP(ER BEAVER
Mrs. F. Lane and son Ray and Mrs.
W. Rhoades and son, Harley, of To
ledo,, visited at the Rhoades borne
Tuesday and Wednesday, returning
home Thursday.
H. 0. Rhoades, I. N, Huyett, P. Van-
employed on the dredge,
Sherwood came over from a the Toledo fans were also out in t,ley nave ao0WD B0U-tn' wno ure
onerwooa came over from .... .... .r tho-A'. mi nnn,nin hn.. .....
Tuesdav evenlnc for & visit ru" """ce. a return game will De ' " .
lueiuaj eTemng ior a visit ..... . , nv omllo h n.r nr
with his family played at Newport soon, and a. large , ' -
,.. ' delegation of rooters Is expected to go
..Mr. and Mrs. John March of Falls down wlth the DOyg.
City were in the city the first of the I
Mr. and Mrs. C. S. Ohmart and baby week, coming via tne auto route.
son went to Newport Tuesday that the ' u. E.. . .
t- t. . ' Mr. Fraiser of the Orton Mercantile
baby might receive medical attention. r. .. , , .
,. . . . Co. was conducting business In Toledo
George Selby came down from Port- .. ....
m u v. . "'Oay last
I eral Grand Jury to spend Sunday with' C. 0. Shlvley of the state of Wash-
his family. Mrs. Selby had the mis- Ington is visiting at the Roy Buckles
i!
fortune to scald her foot badly a few .home on Olalla.
ger of the Portland and TVest Coast ciU O. E. Lewu, H. weaver Mrs. A.
and Navigation Company R. R., Dr. j Peterson and Mr. and Mrs. C. S. Oh
Oberg, State HealUt Officer. These mart and son, Arthur, made a trip to
rsntlemen with others Joined the club . Newport Tuesday
to the number of ten. The Club now Mrs. Dora Huntsuccker of Oyster-
nsa a membership of two hundred,
scattered all over the county and some
live to Portland and other cities of
the Valley. Joseph Nelson and C. L.
Vanderpool were appointed leaders and
they chose sides to the numbers of
t or 10 each to go rato the woods.
This dry weather seems to be
Breaking the record.. It Is now over
45 days of smoke and continuous sun
shine. This Is the longest dry. spell
since 1871. The big fire .that swept
over this country snd burnt nearly all
the timber occuied about In 1845 or-4,
according to the best Information at
hand. Old Indian Johnson, now nearly
one hundred years old, said that be
fore that great fire tor more than three
months no rain fell. This old Indian,
a doctor, still lives on the reservation.
M. M. Davis said he was hero In the
tall of 1868 when another fire broke
out, sweeping down from the north be
fore a heavy northeast wind burning
everything before It and driving the
animals, bear, deer, elk cougar, bob
tats arid other game, Into the Yaqulna
Bny and River, ana many of them were
drowned In trying to keep "t of thw
tiro. Hundreds of these snlmais went
to the Willamette Valley. When the
great lire roi to the North side of the
Bay at McLnlns Point the heat was so
Intense Hint fire brand were blown
across the bay and started the Ore on
the aouth side on the Lent Davis
place. The snlnl bruph and other
growth was so thick that you could not
walk through It
ville came over Thursday for a visit
with relatives of this place.
Johnnie Emerson called at the Pet
erson ranch Thursday.
A. H. Phelps of Ona was in this vi
cinity Friday. '
Lloyd Lewis of Poole Slough visited
at the Peterson ranch Saturday return-
1 In hnmn Kttndav-
Mrs J. C. Huntsucker and Mrs. Dora
Huntsucker visited Mrs. C. Vancll Sat
urday afternoon.
Mr. and Mrs. A. Phelps of Ona vis
ited at-the J. C. Huntsucker home
Sunday.
Helen Phelps and Allro and Mae
Huntsucker visited at (he Rhoades
home Sunday.
Arehlg and Raymond Wilsou :..., .
at the RhnnrtM Srd nl-M,
Sunday.
Alice and Jnmes Huntsucker made
a trip to Toledo Tuesday 'returning
home Wednesday.
K. D. Martin made a trip to Poole
Slough Wednesday.
CHITWOOD
October 15th, 1916 an S pound boy
was born to Mr. and Mrs. Geo. T.
, Smith, of Chitwood. His name Is Psul
j Harold Smith. His mother is now
around snd doing fine. '. '
On Saturday morning the bouse on
...i... n,.i the San ford place about a mile above
; days since, but Is getting along nicely
now.
Mrs. L. M. Commons was a Bayvlew
visitor Tuesday.
Mr. and Mrs. W. C. Weber and Mr.
and Mrs. L. L. Parks were Newport
visitors Friday.
J. R. Coovert made a business trip
to Newport Tuesday.
A. H. Phelps was an Upper Beaver
visitor Monday.
Several of the Grange ladles spent
J i a . t i
I vunj nay oaiuraay doing tome mucn
, needed house cleaning at the grange
hall.
H. J. Wood has his new house com
pleted and Is now occupying It
Conrad Thompson has lumber on the
ground with which to finish hit large
barn.
Mrs. Geo. Selby and Mrs. L. L. Parks
visited the McFarland ranch Sunday.
Most of the farmers are taking ad
vantage of the dry weather to. burn
their slashings.
Mr. Hill who has been In poor health
for the past year Is seriously 111.
Mr. Jacobs of Harlan Is In this vi
cinity ranvyslng In the behalf of J.
M. K. Butler of Toledo for Commis
sioner. Al Wsugh Democratic candidate for
sheriff passed through here Tuesday
enroute for Waldport
Miss Doris Olesnn of Portland ar
rived last Tuesday to take up her
duties as teacher In Cullllanis school.
Miss Madeline Ryan spent the week
end at the Oulllams home as the guest
of Miss Oleson.
0 !
Mr. and Mrs. Lon Hoover have mov
ed to Corvallls, going out yesterday
morning.
Mr. and Mrs. F. W. Spencer departed
this morning for their home at Salem
after a visit at the J. S. Akin home
In this city.
Joe Osscsr came over from Mon
mduth this week for a few days visit
with his family. He returned to that
place yesterday.
Tom Thompson departed for Canada
and the harvest fields Saturday. He
says he may sta all winter it he
doesn't freeze out
Frank Mack and wife have gathered
tt.ree carloads of moss and have left
for their home at Stayton to return in
the spring. ,
An old fashioned dance was held At
the home of Mr. and Mrs. M. W. Small
last Saturday evening. All report a
fine time.
Mrs. Collett of Summit was visit
ing this week with Mr. and Mrs. Ever
ett Miller In this city, returning home
yesterday.
0. L. McCaulou Is reshlngling the
Merchants Hotel building tills week.
L. M. Starr and R. A. Arnold are as
sisting him.
Mr. and Mrs. G. B. McCluskey and
Mr. and Mrs. Warren Hall autoed to
Portland to the football game Satur
day, returning Sunday.
NOTICE OF SCHOOL
MEETING
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN To the
legal voters of School District No 2 of
Lincoln County, State of Oregon, that
a 8CHOOL MEETING of said District
will be held at Grammar School on the '
rid nay. of December," 191.67 at" one 1
o'clock In the afternoon to vote on the
proposition of levying a special dis
trict tax.
The total amount of money needed
and June St. Clair will make the old
songs ring. An Dinah Black will sura
be there to sing the load In' part an
Rastus Maw will sing like days of
yore, the songs they sing will be the
songs, that always reach the heart snd
make the people laugh and cry for
more. The picture maids will come
to life, and sing for us with tears,
these culled gals air surely mighty
sweet; they've . practiced slngln . In
! their frames for Tout one hundred
years, so when they sing you sure will
hear some treat This minstrel show
will come to town upon the even' cars,
they'll huBtle to the Dime on double
by the district during the fiscal year -qu,ck M,M 8t wU, naT nM
beginning on June 19th, 1916, and end'
lng on June 18th, 1917, Is estimated In
the following budget and Includes the
amounts to be received from the
county school fund, state school fund,
special district tax, and all other mon
eys of the district:
' BUDGET
Teachers' salaries
Furniture 75.00
Apparatus and supplies, such
as maps, chalk, erasers, stoves,
curtains, etc. . .. 100.00
Library books 125.00
Repairs of schoolhouses,
outbuildings or fences 100.00
Janitor's wages 640.00
Janitor's supplies 25.00
Fuel 165.00
Light 2.00
Water .63.00
Clerk's salary 60.00
Tostage and stationery
' and freight 10.00
For the payment of bonds, war- .
rants, notes, and other Indebted-
j ness, contracted prior to May
! 22, 1915, snd for Interest
I thereon 600.00
For tno pnymnnt of bonds, war
rants, notes, snd other Indebted
ness, contracted on or after
May 22, 1915, snd for interest
I thereon .. , 1634.00
'girls, who all are first class stars, so
It you miss this show you'll be plumb
' sick.
So come and see the minstrel show,
the program Is some scream, the Joke,
are short and spicy, swift snd sweet;
the culled band will shuck their coats
and lam Ihnlr ntd nunthlna, mnA Klam
,49I!'? 'nigh knock the spot, right off the
sheet So all hands buy a ticket, and
come see the street parade, and stay
as long as anybodjSs there; folks you'll
get your moneys worth, now don't be
afraid, at the ladles old time min
strel show affair.
At the Dime on Thursday evening,
Noy. 2, 19)6 Admission 25 and 15 cts.
One performance ouly.
The Ladles Civic Club's Minstrel
Show is being given for the benefit of
the Toledo-Public Library.
"m'ii A I 1. 1 . 1. nu ' r. v. , , .
the elk and deer trails. This ground !;""W""H ""' '
wall allliurnt off and much of it has b.urn.ed dowo' . Mf' Schley, and
never grown up sgaln and the soil Is ' ,OK P"" everything
not very good. Tte smoke, said Mr. lher h,a- , . -
Davis, was so thick that you ctsld not j The same, morning Viola Pepin's
see to tesd st midday. The chickens house caught fire and would have j
went to roost In day time and the ourni aown aiso ir uuaiey Trapp oaan i
housewife had to use lights to see I come along In time to extinguish the
how to do her work. Some super- Are before It had done any harm,
ttttlous persons thought the end of If anyone ran tell us sbout the fol
tlma had cmo. In the fall of 1852 a lowing books please notify the Chit-
I S'sitw UBf4 LjiIIua. r.lrw TaIcbw
! Grsp... Csssb. M.llsns. Jonath.n Ap. To'al estimated amount .of money
pies, Ripe Tomotoea snd lots of Good
Things st FREDERICKS QUALITY ;
One week of school has passed and STORE,
everything . socms to . be moving :
RIVERSIDE
great comet passed over the Valley
from east to west over Mary'. Peak
and some thought that was another
sign of the end o time,
much like the fall of 1868. We hope no
disaster will follow us and Instead of
fright and treuble we may bave swacs
and prosperity. This comet spMired
to the sky for several weeks
A reception was tendered Mr, Fitz
gerald manager of the Portland West
Coast Railroad, his engineer and the
crew at ths Odd Fellows Hall Wednes
day evening. A short but Interesting
wood school:
Red Rock, Comnocks School Speak
er. Jack the Young Ranchman, and
This fall Is j The jjoosler Schoolmaster.
These books were taken'trom the
library and not returned,
A Pupil of Chitwood School.
. 0
. FIECLES CREEK
Exodus on Flegles Creek I One by
one oiir homesteaders lesve us leave
ua to feel like the last rose of summer.
This tlma It Is Ralph Darting who with
smoothly;
Mr. nnd V-n .1. R. Ttonlrl, Mr. and
Mrs. R. L. Caklna snd Vera Folms
bee of Riverside Attended the Eddy
vllln f.Mr snd dance. All report a very
good tltno.
J. T. Calkins niece, MIks Lula Cal
kins of lone hss been visiting relnttves
here the past week. She seems to like
this country much better than Eastern
Orognn which Is rather s good thing
ss her trip hers wss under the doc-
j tors orders.
Several people of Riverside attended
the fair meeting st Harlan flnturday.
Clarice and Raymond Lsngof Besr
Crnek visited at Riverside Sunday.
John Kullonder, Mrs. Wm. Rrlstlln
and Miss Delia Trapp were black
berrying up this way Sundsy.
Mr. and Mrs. V. .T. Grim departed
this morning for their home st Aurora
after a several weeks' visit with their
daughter, Mrs. Anton F. Will, and fam
ily near this city,
t
The farmers are mtklng the most of
this dry weather to clear land. Slash
ings snd logs sre being burned aqd the
sir Is hazy with smoke. Up around
Turn Turn snd Little Elk valleys the
atmosphere was so thick with smoke
Monday that you could hardly see the
sun.
i
M. Wygant of Newport brought In a
big spud for our Inspection Tuesday.
0 . I The potato weighed four and a half
. 'pounds, snd had about 309 knots on
Regular meala 35c, commer- ltf moT, or iegll u Mlmtled lntt ,t
Ctal Dieala 60c, meal tickets 21 would feed the German Army for near
meala $5.00 al the Merchants, ly a week. .
to be expended for all pur
poses during the year 18456.00
I ESTIMATED RECEIPTS
.From county school fund during the
The Steamer Newport came up from ! coming school year $2196.00
the lower bay Wednesday and wns From state school fund during
pulled out on the ways at the Hanson i the coming school year .; ...476.00
shipyards for repairs, and painting. Cash now In the hands of the
district clerk ..390.12
Estimated amount to be received
from all other sources during
the coming school year.,.. 1273.00
Total estimated receipts, not
Including the money to be re
ceived from the tax which It
Is proposed to vote $4334.12
RECAPITULATION
Total estimated expenses for
the year .' $8456.00
Total estimated receipts not In
cluding the tax to bo voted. .4334.12
Balance, amount to be raised
by district tax $4121.88
We estimate that a levy of S mills
will be required to produce ths amount
of special tax money shown above.
Dated this 27 day of October, 1(16.
Attest: . R. I. Van Clave,
F. N. Haydsn, Chairman Board
District Clark, of Directors.
BIG ELK FAIR OFFI
CERS ELECTED
The meeting held st the Harlan
school house Saturday October 15th,
for the purpose of electing the Big
Elk Fair officers and executive com
mittee for the coming year was well
attended by pcoplo coming from far
and near.
After a picnic dinner, such as Big
Elk Is noted, had been disposed of, the
business of the day was tnVrn np. A
vote of thanks was tendered Mr. Thorn-
sunn as president, and the members of
the various committees for their abli
work In making the first Big Elk Fair
a success. Mr. ThomBnon wns re-elected
president; Mr, Brings was elected
secretary; and Mr. Payne, treasurer,,
and the executive committee as follow,
lng: C. n. Arthur, C. Caytor. R. Hath-
away. W. Scarth, R. Black, and Mrs
Helen Daniels. Other committees Wil
be sppolnted ss tho need arises.
By beginning now to work for next
year's fair, the schools will hsve smpl'
time to prepare exhibit, of school an'
industrial work. The help and co-op
eratlon of the teachers, pupils ant'
patrons of schools embraced In thr
fair district Is ssked to make this
work a success.
CHRISTIAN SCIENCE
Christian Science Services will
be held at tbo building; first door
north of City Hall Sunday at 11
o'clock. Sublet lesson sermon,
"Everlasting; Punishment",
All are cordially Invited.
Sunday School at 10 o'clock.
