I Ihlnir tho values which nre on the uvEi I V &S&i0tSIUJtos $?&3&KESKKl2B&a3& . "'.. . Trying to net thrmiRh a jear of In H
IrL, thrrr. would have been fewer (MIX If 1 mlTfe!flllil5KRHI'TVlfe yffl 5K '5wi.jFr ereaslng business without doing a iHH
. I2'i.r- ti worry the merchant at the (If II I 11 II 2$ sAuyialvCN' HV ill III ill III reasonable nniount of advertising l( t sjHHH
ilfl-j of the season. It neer pa)g to . V I III I ljnTrl3imirN? -fSII II III III III Bolng to bring fulluro to tho merchant. ,' i ilssssM
ISCth f .nom) of the moment pre- C J Ik Jl I . I L "t $fvv5i f&SZkfJ IL AWL II VL, He may not bo forced Into bankrupt- VlH
II .l the profits of the season, nnd It Sr xr SSO d:0y S&' skV tV T u '' nl 'allure to take advantage of j, ,KB
IM.iks. a advisable to push the goods "cr cr E'--' ndvcrtlslng opportunities, hut ho Is iJH
'Hithetf re rather than to hold on to POI ITIiT'AI I V DCDIIDI lf"AIVI wdng to fall to get all the ImslneM ffitaH
I lnull umount that stands bctw een rvL ILfHLLT, nLrUDLIOMIM. that might tome his way Keep things iCiHiH
4W puhllclty nnd sting) re- Entered as Second-CUss Matter. June 4. HH6. at the Pnslofflc .. I'Mr,. Utah, tinder the Act of March .. 1871. ?0,n ",? ",r M P"!!''? f'ilfrne'i0 sfssltH
,,hm l imi ftmn n , .......... - he reallxed as a result or tho eirort. & lH
jg- V0LUME2NUMl.EK 22 EVERY FRIDAY OCTOBER 27, 1916 f H
UI RUN MADE
I ON nLJJUISSES
lUu ii:i nti:i:us aki: t.oixo
H ' itotM tkn-i'iitv.
torscl Shows Clrml Ahorhliig C'npii
H rltr MHI' Hun r Ncarl) Ninety
B TIioii-miihI Head nml Man) Cnlve
H WiMcrii Sheep mill Isimhs tlrlnglng
m I'hik'J Price At Ml-Miurl ttltt-r.
Bsfl
Hfli Sun Hpcclal Hcrvlce
H KANHVH tlT, Mo. Oct 23 -The
Mftilc market showed cxtraordlnir)
pedv last week, complrlel) ale
l.tinx the run op eighty-seven thou
-tad 1 lttlc and eight thousand calves
! "rciitul largest week on rio.nl
vrr and five thousand cikttle In xlil :
'i.kl over from the previous week
Mui nlv that, hut the market Thurs
Mut anil lrlda showed an advance
,fl(tn to twcnty.flvc louts on steers
-fill kinds. Itecelpts toda dropped
Ji tnmO-flvc thousaiiil head and
mot" are ten to twent).f.vc cents
'lhr on practical!) ever) thing
Twin heitV) fed steers old up to
ill SO toila), not iillc the limit of
market for prime beeves Ki
mi lenrllngs here (lood grass
errs got lomiietltlon from feeder
m up to M CO t(Hhi), mlddln class
if)lil steers urouiul Id. 00. medium
itlchls $7 00 to $7 35. light sbrrs
iM to $0 75 nnd some thin Okla
Km is in the quarantine division nt
II Co I'otorado le f steers sold at
TJ to $7 36. na (omHircd with
llto a week ago for tile mtmr liranil,
'niirrx and cows are firm at $I7S
) 17 00 A total of 51. IV. cattle were
vukIU and shipped V the coiintr)
id week, a record tvtck In that trade
111I 1 xi ceding the wick ending ()ilo
r 27lh Inst )enr when 5I.7U7 hi ad
'nt out a former reeiird rompell
n wns keen after Wcdncsda) and
i rs iidvnnied a ipisrter In mini)
un Total holdover at the end of
week five thousand lein than nt
W cud or the previous vviek Hairs
4a) arc tlf teen to twenty-five tents
iilher pinna times lhlrl)-flve to fltl)
tnts higher than the middle or hist
1 ek Heavy fa-eili rs IMO. Choliaa
finhandle New Mexlio and I'olorado
.arllngs $7 76 to $5 15 nml medium
title $0 25 In $7 25
hei p and lumli reielpts were thlr
mm thousand head nod sold at stcad
KIctH llest westerns $10.50. middle
Uss westerns $10 IS. feeiUng Inmlis
tl Oo to $9 75. A drove of New Mex
t feeding wethers weighing ninety
funds at $7 60, fnt ewes worth up to
i't'j, feeding ewes $5.25 to $11.25,
h-rilrrs $7 00 to $H 50 uijil irncllenl
1 no 1 holt e )oong ewes coming,
hli h would sell around $0.00. lti
iin nro running hehlnd last Octo
r 11 nil the situation here favors the
tiling side Top lamhs here last
Thursday fifteen tents nhove Ohleiigo
nl tin rents above Chicago I'rlihi)
sM'i:i'i: CtH'NTV lMll
I'ltier.S HltlLNK IHUOHIX
Uunli prlies are the highest ever
'' dvr I liy stockgrowers In Kanpete
ount) lucordlng to fnin lledmoud,
hi- toik Inspector for the hurciiu of
111I11111I Industry, department of iigrl-
ultun who was over there lust week,
Itiiwri are pa) lag eight tents fur
''hilars, and growers who contracted
Mi nil months ago to deliver ut 7
74 cents are romplulullig he
mue they did not hold their stork
iKmiind for cattje Is sharp, and hity
IiikIi and scarce. Tho demand for
milliard utility horses weighing from
WOO to 1450 pounds Is unusually
(rung
ui: h-roric iio.iin ism'ix
iui:u to mi Ai.ii siii:i:i
Ntle to all owners of sheep
throughout the state litis heen Issued
b) thi state live stock commission
tluit all sheep must he Immediately
'PI" I If the owners do not comply
Ith this order, the notice sa)s, the
Uti iMiiird will have tho tiheep dip
cd mid sell enough or them to dc
') the expenses thus Incurred. The
'Ime limit set for the dipping was Or
'Wr 16th, hut on account of the tin
'noriM,. weather the commission has
miUnl fxtenslou of fifteen da)H.
Moliulr rrlccs Ailvuuiv.
"AS ANTONIO. Tex., Oct. 21
Jh hlghiHt price ever paid for inn
"lf 111 Toxus was recorded yesterday,
hen 150,000 pounds were sold to
""tern huers at fifty-six cents,
Jhlih was twenty cents 11 puuntl
"uliir tliun was paid a )ar ago. The
'nlKninent enmo from the late clip
" I'vulde nnd was said to liu of av
'if iuallly.
'Hi; .Money l"or Ijimlw.
Knicr Moffltt. official weigher of
stock shipped from this station,
worms us there were 13,893 lambs
"'I'Peil by Mantl sheep owners last
k says Mantl's Messenger of Prl
y Use. Tho average price received
seven and a hair cents per pound,
''tWng in the little city of Mint!
'r'51oi5, Home payroll In llnolf.
Nrnit.x ik i)ihcovi:ui:i
T ONi: IIIVIMITON 1IAIUV
n ipldemlo of unthrux, the deadly
u ," among cattle, was discovered
"' Tuesday at tho dolry farm of
(Continued, on page eight.)
I
f " ' 1
ROGERS, In Hw Ytk Hvili
THESE PIPING TIA1ES OF PEACE
CARRANZA nd WILSON-The Ecert$.
NEXT GOVERNOR
TALKSJO MANY
tmuA'iiT uai.i.v or thi: cam-
I'AKJN LAST i:Vi:.NIN8.
homo Hlght llnnilrcil IVrsous Hear
tho hiMH-ch of Hon. Ncplil It. .Mor
rln At Iftii Tliralcr Candidate
Clcarl) Outllucrt His I'osltlon On
hcacral luiiMirluut hlato Im-iicn.
At the largest and most enthusiastic
rally ever held In Carbon county, Ne
phi U Morris, repuhllrifnjnomlneo for
governor, addressed Wght hundred
cltUens or Price and adjoining towns
at tho nko theuter last nlgtit Arter
portra)lng In vivid terms lift) evils or
the liquor truffle, he said that he had
alwa)s been n prohibitionist nnd when
elided he would use. his Influence to
have enacted an iffiitlve prohibition
luw to be enfoned.
In elonuent lunguagu he pictured
man with his selfish nuture ruling the
world. As the emblem of the na
tion's Ideals, he called attention to
the llusshin hear, the Kngllsh lion, the
Mexican eagle holding the rattlesnake,
and our own American eogle. Hlnte
man rules the world and man Is what
he Is, we muitjbe prepared, The re-,
publican party Is one or peace, but It
believes In preparedness.
He paid a glowing tribute, to woman I
and the part she pla)s In home and !
nation building The speaker ex.
prcsjad himself us pleased that he be
longed to n part) that believed In
woman's suffrage. He was proud of
being a native or Utah, whero they
had suffrage. When elected he pro
posed that the million und a half of
dollart. now hold by the state board of
land commissioners bo converted Into
cosh and added to the balance of four
and one-holf mlllons of dollars and
loaned to farmers nt 6 per cent.
Hit also proposos when elected to
cause to be enacted legislation that
will free the home builder from bur
densome taxation, except on lund
value. Hmall farms are also to be ex
empted. At the conclusion of his re
marks he was given an ovatlop. The
mention of Hughes, Sutherland and
NO, JOHNNY, "THE SUN" HAS
NOTjEENjOLD.
To correct rumors thnt linvc none forth Unit The Sun
hnd been Bold to the NewsAdvocate PubliBhinK company
Is the reason for "the.e few lines." No, Tho Sun has not
been purchased by the 'News-iydvocnto or by anyono else,
but Is dolnir business as uauaLai "tho same old stand."
It Is true, however, tliat The Sun lately mado a price
on its subscription lists, Rood will, stock of merchandise,
business and printing plant to the News-Advocnte'crowd,
but the f ifrure was by them considered too hijrh and there
has been nothing further in tho matter.
As The Sun understands it, the News-Advocate offi
cers and stockholders and others interested had arrived nt
the conclusion that one newspaper for Price wns suffi
cient, and had the deal for The Sun gone through the
hitter's business would have been consolidated with the
Nows-Advocnte.
The proposed consolidation of the two newspapers at
Price would have eliminated competition. It would also '
hnve meant the publication of a socallcd non-partisan
paper. Since the deal has failed to materialize, The Sun
continues to shine nt the same old stand.
llonsevelt never failed to bring forth
prolonged uppluuse
1'rof. Churles Kent made a hit with
the people In his songs nnd his eulogy
or Morris. C, II. Murcusen Introduced
tho county candidates, promising the
election or the entire ticket, 1'reced
Ing the rally there was a lurge street
parade. Various orgunlxatlons and
cltUens currjlng appropriate banners
were led by the candidates.
The bund muslo uuil the display of
fireworks started the evening's enter
tainment. The next governor or Utuh
goes to Helper tonight and ut Castle
Gain he will speak tomorrow (Satur
day) evening
IllhTlllCT COUUT UI-SUMIi
ITS (illlNI) MQNI1AV NHXT
Judge Albert H. Chrlstenson last
Monday adjourned district court un
til next Monday, October 30th, at
which time his honor will be back In
Trite from Muntl to go ahead with
the hearing or the calendur, The
Ketchum llllgutlon ugulnst Utah Fuel
compan), I'leas'unt Vulley Coal com
pany and tho Denver and illo Grande
will comu up after several cuses of
minor Importance yet to be heard by
Judge Chrlstenson, It Is expected
the Ketchum litigation, u condemna
tion suit, will take up thai time i.f the
court for sevcrul cU)s,
' llud 1'ox, colored, was convicted of
burglary or u store at Helper and gets
n sentence later on. The bond or
Helen Lawrence, ediarged with resort
ing to a house or III fame, was reduced
to 11 hundred dollurs. The cusn will
bo heard November 1st. The case
against Mrs. Valentine llelui, charged
with conducting a house or III fame,
was continued ut the request or coun
sel. The court nirpolnted counsel to rep
resent John Ponelakls, charged, with
Intent to commit rape. I'onelakls Is
in custody.
Location notices carried In stock at
The Sun office.
KIRKER DISCOVERS I
GREAT COAL VEINS 1
Numerous Byproducts Present Calculated to flH
Make This Country Partially Indepen- MM
dent In Dye Materials. H
SHORTAGE OF RAIROAD CARS FELT LOCALLY H
Discovery of n large blanket of bi
tuminous coal (if exceptionally fine
iioalit) In Little Halt Ijake (lap down
In Irem county, some twenty miles
from Iditlmrr on the Bait lnkr Itoute.
became known a few dn)s ngo at
SCIon when It. A. Klrker, n mineralo
gist of Pn row ii n, nnd A. Hollo, also or
that town, filed In the United Htntes
land office nt Klon on six hundred nnd
fort) ncres or coal lands. Hubert Ad
dison Klrker Is well known In Price
lis the discoverer of Hunnyslde, now
( tali I'ni'l compiin) "s biggest and best
c .mti and where all the a'oke In this
state Is produced.
lit nddlllon to being u tit poult or
high grade con I or commercial quiill
t) neurest the Halt like Itoute It also
Is recorded as the westermost point at
this latitude, there being little or no
coal In Nevndn or California. Klrker
sa)s that working the dcpiodl for
shipment and manufacture or by
products In which the coal has been
round to be rich will begin us soon us
proper organisation can be under
taken Klrker iilsu i)s that when he sat
isfied himself of the existence or mill
In Little' Halt Uike flap he Interested
an uss'M'Intloii or Pn row it ii business
men with the result that it tunnel two
hundred and fifty feet long was driven
Into n bunk showing con I Iridlcullims,
This, he st)s, traversed six great,
veins or an exceptionally high grade
or bituminous coal
Tots On Hut Product.
"I have had this coal tested at the
United Htietcs laboratories nt Qoshoe
ton, O., and nt the federal navy bu
reau, and reports received show It to
be phenomenal for the extraction or
byproducts," sa)s Klrker. "Among
other prouuets It contains sufficient
aniline to Insure entering Into n very
profitable commercial Industry to this
linn alone Aniline Is used In the
manufacture of dyes, which have been
exhausted In this country us the re
sult nf the Kurnpean war."
In addition the coul has been found
to contain considerable lcht)ol, which
when extracted, commands it price of
it dollar u pound. The extraction of
these h) products will have to be made
by special furnaces and machinery,
but from the standpoint of expense
this may bo done commensurate with
profits Indicated In a thorough mi
nl)sls of the coal, both as to quality
and qiinntlt).
Klrker added that the development
of the property promised to b try
lurge and that the business men or
Parowan, who nre backed by surf I
dent capital, have ussurance of the
existence of it railroad line from the
Hull luke lloutat us soon as operations
develop. Mine and Industrial experts
working for tho railroad have exam
ined the properly and have mado fa
vorable report In connection with the
extension or it coal line.
Near the Iron I'lclds.
Thu coul Is situated close to the
Iron fields In Iron county and In the
event that an Iron Industry Is started
there coal will be ample. Klrker bus
documentary records that he was the
first man, us u United Htates geolo
gist expert. In discover coal west of
Penns)lvunlu, when In 1S73 lie un
earthed coal fields In Colorado.
lie bus other records which show
that' he discovered the coal deposits
ut Hunn)sldci and that ho uncovered
the Harmony unthraclto beds fitly
miles south of I 'a rowan only it rw
)eurs ago. He su)s this find In Little
Hull l.ake flap Is by far his most Im
portant discovery.
COAL MINK OPKIIATOHK AUK
A WAV ItHIIINI) WITH OltDHHK
Utah coat mine operators are now
reported to be two hundred thousand
tons behind their orders. In the section
west und north of this state, owing to
shortage or curs and shortage of
miners, not u few of whom left curly
In the season for work In tho muni
tion rectories, where they could earn
more mone), says Saturday's Deseret
News, Salt IJike City dealers say
there Is us et no octnul shortage or
coal In Halt Lake City as dealers are
well ii(i on their orders, but should
thu winter prove long or severe, tho
situation here Is likely to prove seri
ous, liesldents are therefore being
advised to lay In their supply
COAL minim; COM PAW 'IX)
KUK KTIUMN . KMPJVOYISi
PUNXHUTAWNBY. Pa., Oct St.
The llochrster and Pittsburg Coal and
Coke company, whose minus here are
closed by a strike ot twenty-five hun
dred miners who presented a new
scale after the company had signed
the scale uf the United Mine Workers
or America, announced today that
suit would be filed against each H
miner, nnd the local unions of which H
the) nre members asking damnges H
becatliio of the suspension.
The company's law)ers nro now en-
gaged In framing the petition which H
alleges that the men violated their H
agreement signed April 16th lust In jH
Philadelphia, when they quit work lit jH
I the demanding of a new scale It iH
contends thnt the United Mine Work- Issssfl
!ers nre just ns liable for breach of HH
I contract ns any responsible corpora- jH
'tlon or Individual.
I The suit, of fliers of the compan)' H
Wild, wns based on the decisions In H
the Datthur) butters' case,
nriT.UN minhipi out in H
ALAItAMA UAH KXPI.OHION' HH
lllltMINOHAM. Alii.. Oct. 22. H
Itescuers lute tonight brought to tho
siirfni'c the bodies of two or the f If- B
teen iijcii who were trapped by mi ex-
plorlou of gas In the mines, of the H
linden Coal company ut Marvel, Alu H
lodii) M
lief ore the rescuers eeiuld flood the ' Bu
mine's luimr Hange with a sufficient B
circulation or ulr. one miner, it white
man, mounted high on a Inddeir In a I HHHHj
pasMgawity, was overcome by gas nnd
fell to the floor of the mine, breaking I
his uctyk J i H
Knur others were aiverceimn by gss, H
but were carried out anil resuscitated, ( , H
Nine uf the dead are white unit six
ne groes.
r.levcnlli Victim V i H
i'AlilMOUNT, W. Vu Oct.'.:0- .. jH
Tile Jamison mine disaster, which al- ? i) H
ready has cost ten lives, claimed an- ' H
other victim today when U M. Jones ;'
or Columbus, O, In cliurge or the i H
government mine rcscu o squinl fronr j
Pittsburg, wuh usplDxIiitcd, Heven y M
members or his party were overcome, H
hut revived after being brought to if H
the siirfure by it second rescue purty
this morning. Tim body or M. W. At- H
llsou, chlef.eiiglneer of thai mine, was H
brought to thai surface today. The 'H
other iHidles have been found und six liiH
more are known lo be dead. r jH
. '31
ItcfllMft to ljSSSSSSH
U'AHHINOTON. I). C, Oct. 33. 'hiiH
The supreme court toda) refused to, JH
review the conviction of James II. OisssssssH
Hinlth, vltn president, P. II. Mills, .JiliH
dock superintendent, und K. II. May- Vslsassssi
er, checker, respectively, or tho West- ffl
ern I'll el company or Han I'ranclsco or 'r'lissssssssssl
conspiring to defraud the government ttfuissssssfl
by raise weighing or dutiable coal, sfrsasssssssss!
und the punishment prescribed In tho W H
California federal courts will stand, nilH
Tat Praitm Car Hhorlagr. v n sssssssssss!
DKNVnil, Colo. Oct. SS. The In- ' ll
terstietn commercr commission has "lliiiH
promised the state public utilities iHiHaiH
commission, It was uunounied today. IiiiiI
thnt It will muke an Investigation or flHiH
car shortages here, which It Is said I fftssiisssssl
ure preventing the fnilt crops from '. IBH
being moved nnd threatens n coal DsH
famine wiH
Sort Coal Is Koaiing. iLIII
PHTHIIUIta, Pa.. Oct. 33. llltu- ' fiiHH
mlnous coal reached $1,311 u ton at
the mines litre today. 13,05 higher I J ssssKfl
than the customary price nnd prob- , H
nbly the highest price It ivr com- it'i&aH
muniletl. Hales agents of some or the ik'sesflfl
Important rompitnlts suld thero wus "iiisHIH
little available even at this price, )!HhBsss!
ALI,i:Oi:i COAL THUhT TO Ssj'BBeB
III: PHOIHjl), IT IK HAII yE3l
When a number or coal dealers In- J H
vlted to sendtomiietltlve bids for sup- 1 ljH
pl)lng tho school s)stem of Halt !-ake fliiiHH
City with fuel for the winter put In wHILssfl
Identical bids to the bgard uf educu- j fjBHH
tlon the other day the department nf 'UBililli
Justice sut up and took n little no-. jjlHI
lice. The action of the coul dealers jIBflHH
in submitting Idcntltul bids for sup- lnlDisl
pi) Ing coal to the board or education tJHH
suggested to the rnlnt't or tho special' I JlBB'aWsW
investigators for the department of r IfiiiiH
justice that there was perhaps a com- j) 'JilflsH
blnatlon In restraint or trade, which 1 lllHHssssI
Is prohibited by law. A fHI
These special ugonta have been i. tf RtiisH
digging qulelly Into the coal business 9 fl CkOH
for some time to determine If perhaps f JBH
(Continued on page seven.) v ftWM
Klk stain In Montana may bo sold I fjlHI
for consumption In Utah, according tit t F IlisSiisH
a decision by I'rud W, Chumbers.i -1' JuVlHH
statu game and fish commissioner, af- ff ljH
ler he had consultod with A. It, iMsstslH
llarnes, attorney general The point Jxk99issH
wus raised at Ogdeu by the tmporta- VSXHHsssssi
tlon or three elk and one deer. The fjf'H MSil
animals had been shipped out or I ! iOrssssss!
Montanu bearing official tags and no iftj CMellssB
effort wua made to dispose of the SjiJ ExUH
meat until the Utah officials had flnliilSssM
given their decision, iJNvKvwassU
