'J
r
fx -i. i4
r ' T ; t
J lnWcJ
o J c:i o
:-iii3r.:;;::.:iT
r.::::vziTc:DT;
Manager Hall bat arrayed to pat
on a Mm of great historical aigniS
aanco, through one of tba big Urn
companies, in which yon will
Charlee Evana Hughes and bia family
nnd vittit Niagara Falls, and tha big
ehona in Derriot, tba cowboys in
Montana, Ran Diego Exposition,
trip through tha nation with Hughea,
nt Roosevelt and Taft, Scene of
fighting at Vera Crux, Battleships,
Patriotism, Preparedness. Thin pic
ture is an interesting hiloriciil ree
orl.
Thin great picture will be given
without additional cost to those who
nlietid the regular show on the diit"
advertised.
Vary Ksieene to Casing
When Delaware flrat came to Dem
lug, Lient. Robert Tomlinson, of the
hospital corps, made a three-bane hit
by pvmg na a new phrase, "energix
ing atmosphere", the said three bag
ger pulled off in one of the moat
flowery of the many after-dinner
speeches at any of tha military ban
quet. Now the popular "Diamond
State" officer has made a "home
run" by bringing his bride to Deming,
and setting up housekeeping, togeth
er with Cnpt. and Mm. LeFevre in
one of the Phillips houses, 020 Nickle
nvenuc. The bride was formerly
Mr. Mildred Hutton Bishop of De
troit, who might be properly desig
nated as "That Old Sweetheart of
Mine." The ceremony was perform
ed on the 14th inst., by Rev. H. G,
Potter, at the 1st M. E. Church, El
Paso, ('apt. and Mrs. LeFevre being
witnesses. Tbe household is bright
ened by the presence of Mrs. Tomlin
son' young da fighter and aon. Sotol
furniture manufactured for tbe wsm
home is one of the novel featurea of
their new household, Deming is glad
to extend the welcoming hand.
Fkliar-Cavla getting
The home of Judge and Mrs. C. C.
Fielder was the scene of a very hap
py wedding Tuesday evening, when
their eldest daughter was united in
marriage to Mr. Paul Davis, of the
tT. S. Signal Corp. The impressive
ceremony was performed by Rev. W.
E. Foulk. The bride is one of our
well known and respected voting lad
ies and it will he a source of much
regret when site goes to her new home
at Evansville, Ind.. as soon as he hus
band is discharged from the Ir. S. A.
fcj Ca X.l 'j C
Holm O. Eawair;cz-'
in Luna eonaty jz-Izj, Lj a.
by auto from Laa Craeee at e-i.fl
accompanied by our owa -
Williams, CoL C'Ji TxtULJ izA
the famous eorrocpoafant, Gotute
Smith.
The party pro Beaded aaanvtafy
to Columbus and report the c;
and moat entbuaiaatia meettajr arm
held in that hustling tows.
They came back to Deming ia teas
for a Harvey Hoaaa dinner given ky
prominent eitiaens in their honor, af
tor which the ttaeat political xeeetlrr.
held in Deming this year waa stared
at the Crystal, althonght tbe moat faa
portent military ball of the season
was held at the Andioriam right
across the street.
Splendid muaie waa furnished bv
the 2nd Arkansas band and tha beat
musical hit of tha year waa put on
by J. V. Bchurti's mala quartette,
including Messrs. E. A. Malcolm, W.
N. McCnrdy and L. W. Taylor.
Judge R, F. Hamilton presided as
chairman and requested the Graphic
editor to take a few minutes prior to
the lliirsiini address to read telegrams
from 22 counties received during tbe
liiy giving most encouraging newa of
a surprising Republican victory for
New -Mexico. Bur nan's majority ia
Mlimated at 600 to MOO.
His address last evening ia thought
by patriotic citizens to be tbe clean
est, ablest and moat convincing po
litical argument ever heard in tbia
county by any man of any political
larty. He made no attack on his po
litical opponents, out preferred an
array of farts that eanot. be refuted.
Mis views on constructive legislation
are the bent that have been presented
here.
Aerator Fall was on the program.
hut his train waa too late, making it
necessary for him to speak at the
Fnion Station platform npon tha ai
rival of the Silver City train Satur
day evening. The public is very
cordially invited to greet the distin
guished senator on this occasion.
We all have to take our hats off to
Precinct Chairman Frank Samnels
when it comes to getting a crowd.
Krs. 6. W. Ruifierferd Dead
Attend El Paso Function
Mrs. Martha R. Anient and Mrs.
Snm Wntkins went to El Pnso Tues
day to attend a very swell society
function given by Mrs. Sam Fnnt,
complimentary to Mis Hattie May
Loretx, whose wedding occurred on
Wednesday evening, Mrs. Watkins
assisting in an important part. They
returned in time for the military hop
last evening.
Dinner Guest
Harold Clark, war corresondent of
the Boston Herald was a dinner guest
of Prof. Robbins Wednesday even
ing at the Harvey Honse.
The opening Dance of the Camp
Deming Officer's Club given at the
Auditorium last evening was one of
the very best given' during the gay
military season. The grand march
was led by Col. Glenn and Mrs. Cbaa.
D. James and Captain William Ray
mond and Mrs. Albert B. Sloan.
Inspiring music was furnished by
the splendid 1st Regiment band and a
floe luncheon was served by Cafe
Richter.
Dances will be iven without furth
er invitations w. each succeeding
Friday niilt.
Although her long illness would not
make it surprising, the announcement
f the death of Mrs. G. W. Ruther
ford came as a shock to her legion
f Deming friends, who had aeen the
rave little woman battle for life in
mi uneven si niggle, me end came
K-H-ffully at her summer quarter at
Irftng Beach yesterday afternoon. The
body will be received in Deming and
will be buried either here or in St.
bun beside Mr. Rutherford. '
Mrs. M. A. Kordhaus, Williama'
Rutherford and Wells Rutherford all
highly respected residents of tbia city
are the remaining members of tbe
family.
I
f
i
t
i it.. -' r
m ..'It .r
.JTOUVIl
a rAN r: i 4
MUftDIRIR WAt PAROLID
RiatNT LISUTLXANT OOV
.' XKCUTIVI, AND THAT WHILt
I K IRKtOKl CON'INIMINT
r if y "urger win muroinir
T:sl Aorta, Is K
Lrxt Pared Trtaif xrti
t CIV1M TO A,-A.-.StT C. HILLiat TILIHONI OIRU
ATi a payroll at tN.ANg ItTATI KILL
i
r-
K
r
f
saelo VlgU eater bia home at
tbat be waa going to kill her.
use. VlgU followed bar and,
eeve and sobbed, "doat kill
a bar. She tell, but not aatuv
her bead aad fired two more
r- theater al-M la ittl Jr-e r
iJ. U., and aaaOUttMd to Is i
l f I tor bar U.e from t 1
l r t...le son placked at k
1 kill mamma." tsa man i
tad kled br. V:-U il
4 . JUr brain, s:a o.t the L I spark of Ufa
ktoa waa applied br the crtme. It was one of tbe moat cruel,
aolaVbloadai aad deliberate mardera la ' f history of tbe sute.
Vtall waa tried before a jury.. A t bearing the evidence of I his
waaton killing, tbe jnry returned a vs. el of guilty aad tbe court sen
tenced VlgU to be banged. Vigil triad it get a naw trial, and then ap
pealed tbe case to tba Supreme Court.
Leat an enraged pobllo fearing tr t Vlnil might by legal atrategy
aeap the penalty prescribed snatch VJI from the county Jail and Im
part an aalawful but merited Justice Ca and tbere. tbe authorities look
the prisoner to Santa P for safekeeping.
The Supreme Court upheld the verdict of the lower court that
Vigil's crime waa wanton murder, aad that be should be banged by the
neck until dead. Then Territorial Governor Mlaual A. Otero, the same
who Is now running for sute auditor oa t"e Demot i-atle ticket, commuted
his sentence to life Imprisonment apart the Ills of the creature who
the law said waa fit only to die mlsenUy la partial expiation for his
crime.
That deflection of Justice, thoueb, waa mild In comparison with what
waa to follow; that waa to be done be another candidate on the Demo
rratic ticket
VlgU waa sent to tbe state penitentiary April 10. 1905. to begin his
term of life imprisonment. Sentenced to itesih sud spared for political
reasons by Ulllle Otero, sent to prlron for life and when he had aerved
ONI.V BIQHT YEARS of hla "life ' term, he was set free April 10, 11S.
by Lieutenant Governor E. C. de Haco, the present candldata for governor
oa the Uemoeratlo ticket who W. C. M cDonald says would make the
asms kind of a governor be baa been. ur. McDonald la la a position to
know.
Yea, de Baca actually allowed tbia rainless wlfe-marderer. tha perpe
trator of one of tbe worst crimes in tbe history of the state, to leave
tbe confining walla of the penitentiary.
Oovemor W. C. McDonald had gone outatde tha state for a brief
visit, and Lieutenant Governor K. C. de Baca waa acting governor.
Whether de Baca then "put one over" In the absence of McDonald, or
whether McDonald knew when be went away that de Baca waa going to
set VlgU loose, canuot be stated, since tbe two have not divulged the
facta but at any rate, de Baca, aa acting governor, paroled Vigil and eat
him moae to prey upon society.
Tbat this phrasing Is not far fetched may be Judged from what fol
lowed. It Justified tbe public Indlguatlon and resentment caused by this
latest Instance of official action to faro, the inirderer, for after bis
parole Vigil ran true to form, rive months after bo had been excused
from hie term of "life Imprisonment" by de Baca's parole, VlgU mur
dered a man In Dallinaa. a settlement In Rio Arriba county.
This waa construed aa a viola t 'on of the parole rules, so VlgU waa
brouaht back and placed in tha penitentiary once more, lie la there now.
Why waa K. C. de Baca, who wants the people of New Meiico to
elect hlin governor, so extremely lenient with a "lifer." a heartless mur
derer of women? Wss It because VlgU waa a friend, or a political ally,
or were there other reasons?
Is It not reasonable to suppose that If he were elected governor,
da Baca might again ahow solicitude for Vigil and again aet tha mur
lerer loose now with two niurfors to bis discredit?
The Vigil case is not the only instance of de Baca officially doing a
good turn for the penietrator of a horrible crime. There la tbe matter
of Prudenclo Martines.
In less this Prudenclo Martinet and a man named Felipe Garcia,
who waa employed In E. C. de Baca'a uriuites office In Ua Vegas one
main waylaid aud aaaaulted a girl on her way iuma through a dark
street from the telephone exchange where she was employed. The crime
waa a revolting one and public wrath at the degenerates who perpetrated
It ran high In Ban Miguel county. Martines and Oarcla were sentenced
to twenty years In the penitentiary.
After a short time. Msrtines tried to get free on parole. Tbe charlta
ble Olllle Otero, chairman, and his parole board, recommended the pa
role of MartlneS In Auguat, 1913.
Governor McDonald declined to sign the parole antn May g of thU
present year. In tbe light of whst followed, the question naturally arises
Did McDonald finally parole Martinet at the solicitation of E. C. de Baca
who bad given tbe wife-murderer Vigil a parole?
In any event, aa soon aa Governor MoDonald did parole Martinet
lieutenant Governor de Baca, head of the managing board of the state
Insane asylum at Laa Vegaa. gave blm a Job aa cook at the aaylum It
so shows on the parole record.
Thanka to do Baca'a patronage, the assailant of the little telephone
girl waa pnt on tbe state's payroll, to hold down a good Job at tbe asy
lum. He was aaslgned to cook for and coma In contact with those pitiful
charges to whom society owea the best and moat careful guardianship it
can afford to give, but the fate which has robbed them of their mlnda
may at least keep them from realising where de Baca'a aaylum board
recruits the men tbe state pays to look after them, and keep the Inmatea
from a sense of danger.
If he ahould be elected governor, would do Baca free tbe other aa-.-.allant
of the telephone girt Felipe Oarcla, who worked in de Bacas
priutlng office?
Cast Frtti Car AJn gi tto
Htxsar far & Ciie Land
srn555gliJS55j( KUJefiJ ea'a tta
Monday morning at the county
I court honae, Frita Mueller, repre
senting Robert P. Ervien, State Land
ICommiaaioner, Bold 40,476.23 acres
of etate and school lands, the actual
sale occupying one hoars tunc
Former surveyor-gensrsi John W.
March, assisted by E. I Foulk,
kept the records and checked np the
payments, quite a number of the
I purchasers paying tha full value of
the land the day of tha sale.
Among the mora prominent out-of-
town buyers were W. H. Cook of Du
lluth, Minnesota: Hall Broa., of Nutt,
IJaatro of Los Angeles ; W. C. Hoover,
of Columbus; Latham Bros,, of Aden;
IF. B. Schwentaker, of Albuquerque;
Henry Tarnow of Albuquerque, K. F.
Johnson of San Maroial; J. A .Pruitt,
of RoaweU, W. H. aad B. J. Tattle,
IE. C. Wade, Jr., Harry F. Baldwin
and V. 8. Hillis of El Paso aud a rep
resentative of A. E. Suppinger, of
New York.
Following is a list of the sales:
W. EL Cook, Dnluth, Minn., 11,-
214.00 acres; Latham Bros., Aden,
10,633.64 acres; R. H. Case for J. A.
Pruitt, 8,289.52 acres; Hall Bros.,
3720 acres; W. W. Barbae, 1,268.35
acres; A. E. Suppinger, New York,
1119.57 acres; 8enator EL L. Kerr,
707.50 acres; A. G. Rodotph, 642.08
I acres ; J. E. Mundeil, Big Springs,
I Texas, 640 acres; Victorio Land A
Cattle Co., 476.50 acres; J. J. Hyatt,
333.55 acres; F. B. Schwentker, AJ
Ibuquerque, 320 acres; Henry Yarnow
Albuquerque, 320 acrea; W. C. Hoov
er, Columbua, 160 acres; A. J. Har
naon, 160 acres; K. F. Johnson, San
I Maroial, IRQ acres; E. C. Green, 160
acrea; A. S. Lanno, 40 acrea; B. J.
Tuttlo El Paso, 40 acres; W. H. Tut
tle, El Paso, 39.90 acres; A. P. Will
iams, 30.75 acres, a total of 40,476
.25 acrea which-will bring the state
ajbout $130,000 aside from interest
and other items.
These are the kind of stunts Bob
Ervien is continually pulling off for
the Mimbrea Valley: Better keep
him on tbe job, hadn't wef
nra cc.T3 Tirz ccrY
Raw KaspfcMrg tanas FfclJ K:t
i) Ke. Cm, IfiKbr Cssssal ef
Ksjar Jiba 8. W. Know
CFFICIKJ TO E?:X3 FASiLlIS
The Cttosra and Cen are Very Kuoh
In Leva Kith the tauthwett
CsNelalry Camp DemiR
Deming, Delaware, Arkansas, Wy
oming and Colorado are glad to wel
come Field Hospital No. 1, of New
Hampshire, Major John G. W. Knowl-
ton commanding.
The train arrived Sunday afternoon
at 2:45 and with the perfect aii-ange-menta
always made by Col. Olenn
they were in camp and ready for mess
at six o'olock.
The easterners are very much de
lighted with their environments and
it is pleasing to note the command
ing officer and his staff will bring
their familica here in tbe very near
future.
The commissioned officers of New
Hampshire are Major John 0. W.
Knowlton, Capt. Tnppan C. Pnlsifer,
Capt. James J. Powers, Lieut. Jos
eph R. Helff: Lieut. Persons W.
Win? and Lieut. John W. RoRers.
Library Acknowledgements
The Hondale ladies will serve elec
tion dinner November 7, a good one
aa nana).
ICC9 Learn af Creed a Cay
Qua Williams who runs tba Clark
bakery and his assistant R. Delgado,
are turning out from 1000 to . 1500
minimum loaves of bread a day, and
each loaf before it goes into the ov
en, is put on the scales and weighed,
a task that looks mighty big, aa is.
Aside from this they bake tbe reg
ular pastry every day and It sure
doe keep Qua some busy.
Dan Bowers Sayt He Oldnl
I want to say to the voters of
Luna County that I did not sign the
statement published over the signa
tures of J. J. Noonan and "Dan"
Bowers, and it waa re pa red without
any knowledge and waa not signed by
me, as I am still a loyal Republican,
and want all my party to support tbe
ticket.
. D. W. Bowers.
P. S. I never sign "Dan" Bowers.
Road Board Organized
County School Affaire
Itemized cMimntes for the lieriod
September 1, 1910, to September 1.
1017, and for the further period
Sept. 1, 1917 to Dec. 1, 1917, have
been prepared by tbe county school
I superintendent, and with the addi
tional revenue of $900 to the county
high school fund and 0400 to District
No. 5, the estimates have been ap
proved and allowed Jiy tbe county
commissioners and the state tax com
The Deming Woman's Club Lib
rary has received from the Trustees
under the will of Mary Baker Eddy
tbe following books on Christian
Science by Mary Baker Eddy:
Hcience and Health with Key to
the Scriptures, Miscellaneous Writ
ings The First Church of Christ,
Scientist, and Miscellany; Unity of
flood; Retrospection and Introspec
tion; Pulpit and Press; Christian
Healing and The People's Idea of
God; Rudimental Divine Science;
No and Yes; Messages to the Mother
Church, also the Life of Mary Bak
er Eddy by Sibyl Willmr; and the fol
lowing periodicals: The Christian
Science Journal, (monthly) Christian
Science Sentinel, (weekly) The Cona
tion Science Monitor, (daily.)
These books have been presented
without eot to the library and are to
be placed at the disiwsal of tbe read
ing public as soon as they have been
catalogued.
SECRETARY OF STATE'S 8SN
JOINS REPUBLICAN PARTY
Messrs. Sherman and Baker went mission.
The Crystal will give a big mask
IihII tonight and tomorrow will op
en up roller skating on a new floor.
W. E. Drew of Magnolia, Pike Co.,
Mitis., arrived in town Saturday last
and will make Demiiig '. permanent
home, a a rjpresentrlive of the Pa
cific Mutual Life Ins. Co. He it a
bH.nnt gentleman to meet and is
sure to become a valuaUe Doming
loostor.
V
Bra. Huth Given Verdiet
The last case to come before tbe
district court waa the case of Mrs.
Chaa. Heath vs Royal Insurance Co.,
tbia time the jury giving Mr;. Heath
11,000 judgment the full amount for
which she was seeking to obtain.
The Hester Photo Co., are planning
to make some more wild west view,
special models are expected in daily
and are under the direct supervision
of Rex Thorp. The photographs will
be made by R. I Reid, formerly of
the R. L. Reid Co., who understands
thoroughly the filming of western
soenee,
to Columbua and organised the Luna
County Road Board by electing Cha
Henth, chairman, and Fred Sltcrtmin
secretary-treasurer.
The board is toing to eel om h
funds to pay outstanding accounts,
and make a good road to Columbus
and keep the roads in repair until
January 1st, when i nd fni". -v
'' available. Good work I
These ftgnree are open to public in
peetion ana closest criticism is in
vited.
Election Kews at Auditor kim
Manager Porter haa made U ar-
Noted Dancing Caater Here
Prof. L. A. Hepburn, member of
John Barow Camp, No. 6, F. 8, W.
Vn Department of Washington, is or
srnnixing a large dancing school in
Deming. He haa wider experience
than perhaps any ther dancing in
structor in America and haa the per--onnl
endorsement of manv of the
rangementa to make full telegraphic '0,mnt army and navy officers in
election returns at the Auditorium ,he ''n'on- At the Auditorium.
on Election eveninar.
As the elections in tha eastm-n Tn "nt d third battalions, 4th
states wi be reported one to two "foment Alabama National Guard,
hours earlier than in the west there c,mpanied by a good band, stopped
will be some lively atuff early in the Dwdmr tbis morning en route to
evening. Nogales. Col. E. H. Graves, command-
This is a fine stroke of enterprise They 'stopped long enough to
on the part of Manager Porter. ' 'w rwwrJ supplies.
Mra. Ja TP. TVutano i-
Election returns at tbe Auditorium popular gdjntant of the 3rd batta'
Tuesday mght, Nov. 7. The best re- ion, 2nd Arkaneas, arrived 8undav
inrna ;rom me nest sources ot infor- morning. Wa an giad to extend tbe
Santa Fe, N. M., Oct. 25. Antoni.
Lueero, Jr., haa renounced the Dem
ocratic party, on whose ticket bis
father, secretary of State Antonio
Lncero is a candidate to succeed him
self. The younger Lueero this week
joined the Young Men's Republican
club of Santa Fe and announced to'
Ins friends that ho is going to vote
the straight Republican ticket.
Even though his father is a Demo
cratic candidate, young Lueero feels
that in justice to his conscience he
could not vote the Democratic tick
et thia year. This ia hia flrat presi
dential election and, like many anoth
er first voter, he haa carefully looked
over the principles and candidates
of both political parties and haa chos
en the Republican party. Hence
forth he will be a Republican.
In declaring for Republican prin
ciples and tbe Republican ticket, the
younger Lueero signed the following
regular application for membership
in the Young Men'a Republican Club:
"I hereby apply for membership in
the Young Men's Republican Club of
banta Fe, N. M and hereby suscribe
to the prineiles of. tbe Republican
party, as laid down in the national
platform of 1016.
Name, Antonio Lncero, Jr.
P. O. Address Santa Fe, N. M."
The son of the Democratic Secre
tary of State U but one of the host
of first votera who have joined tlu
Republican party.
P. A. Hall and E. T. Wilev of f
atate auditor'e office arc eheeUi-g n,)
mna county nnnncial aZJ.t t .
July 1, 1909. They wo'l r
mighty good permanent nl t ' ,
Deming life.
Corporal Roy Phi::-- j, r
the Fort E'.isa Cor;lil on'
fuxlon-h.
