W.torlca, Soci.t,
V.
KSTABUSHED NEP'T 17, 1870.
I'lOCHE, l.IXCOLX (OIXTY, XKYARA, I KIDAY, H TOISKIt 27,
lUtli
VOI.IMK XI.VUI; Xl'MHKK T...
THE
PIOCHE
RECORD
Socialism Means
"Do What is Riolf
A good-sized audience, but not
as large as the one which waited for
him Sunday night, liHtened for two
hours to A. Grant Miller, Socialist
candidate for United States Sen
ator, on Friday night. Mr. Mil
ler, despite the exposure of
the night spent in the hills, was in
good voice and carried the audience
with him as he discussed both na
tional and state issues.
One of the particular hits of
Miller's address was when he spoke
of the ridiculous obections advanced
against woman suffrage. He told
of having made 91 speeches in its
favor during the campaign of 1914
and brought down the house when
he repeated the story of his wife's
going to the polling plai'e in Reno
and casting her ballot.
At the conclusion of Miller's ad
dress Miss Sarah Grant of the Wo
man's party was accorded the priv
ilege of a few moments on the plat
form. Miss Grant made an appeaV
for national woman suffrage, but
first caled attention to the fact that
in the campaign of 1914, when the
right of suffrage was grunted to Ne
vada women, both the Democratic
and Republican parties refused to
recommend it in their platforms
while Mr. Miller was its ardent
champion at that and all other times
Miss Grant said that she considered
it a great privilege to stand on the
same platform and to publicly thank
him for his efforts in behalf of Justice
to the women.
STATU OK XKVAKA
ss
i'OlXTV OK l.IXCOLX
I. Chas. Culverwell, the duly elected, qualified and acting County
Clerk in and for said County and State, do hereby certify that the following-named
persons, together with the designation of the oltices for which
they respectively were nominated, the party or principal which they res
pectively represent, as the sam appears from the crtifted lists, duly veri
fied, filed in this othce by the Secretary of Stat and by the County Con
ventions held on the 19th day of September, 1916, and by Certificates of
Nomination containing the required number of signatures filed by the In
dependent Candidates, which are now all on file in my office, are entitled
to have their names placed on the OtHcial Hallot at the Genera Election to
be held on the 7th. day of November,' 1916:
I or President . ; WOODROW Wll.SOX
Kor Vi.-e-rreshleiit . THOMAS It. MARSHALL
FOR PRESIDENTIAL ELECTORS:
Douglass, Hohert L
Karl, Joseph I
Goodin, James T. .. ,
Woman's Party Working
For National Suffrage
Kor President
1 or Vice-President
FOR PRESIDENTIAL KLKCTOUS :
Ashbury, Ida M ,
Ingalls, George W
Swatuler, J. Mortimer -.
.. Democratic Party
. . . Democratic l'arty
. . Democratic Party
.1. 1 RANK II A X LEY'
IRA 11. LAXDRITII.
. . . Prohibition Party
. . . Prohibition Party
. . . Prohibition Party
NEVADA CAMPAIGNING
STRKXl OlS WORK
It is possible that Charles Evans
Hughes thinks he has a strenuous
timecampaigning in a Pullman car,
hut if he would encounter the real
thing in strenuosity he should ac
company Grant Miller on a campaign
by automobile throughout the state
of Nevada.
Miller left Reno Sunday morning,
October 15th, and travels from 10
to 160 miles every day, even though
the roads have been very rough in
many places. He has not fully re
covered from the accident he met
with in California some weeks ago,
and the jolting over the rough roads
has not helped the hack which was
injured when Hie Fonfllew off the
road and hit him."
- - The climax wus reached, last Sun
day night and for a time it looked as
If Mr. Miller would bo seriously ill
as a result of the exposure suffered
when he lost his way and was com
pelled to spend a cold night In the
hills fifty miles from Pioche. When
Ely was left early in the morning
there was no doubt but Pioche
would be reached by six o'clock, but
Miller, one staying until 3 o'clock
in the morning, hut the latter had
gotten too far away and the search
ers were unsuccessful.
PROMIXKNT CITIZEN
PASSES AWAY
John Milton Rreeze. a resident of
Pioche since the fall of 190 6, was
called to the Great lteyond Inst Sat
urday, October 21 at the age of 67.
lie had not been well for the past
four months, but few of his friends
realized that his condition was ser
ious n n t il he was taken to Las Vegas
by his son, C. 1). Itreoze, about two
'weeks ugo. Mr. P.reeze was admit
ted to the Nevada Har on March IS,
1907, having formerly practised In
Colorado. He was born in Jeffer
son county, Illinois. In " 1908, lie
was elected as district attorney of
Lincoln county on the Republican
ticket and made many friends by
performing faithfully and well the
duties of his office. He was a high
ly respected member of the Masons.
Oild Fellows and Maccabees. Funer
al services were held under the bus
pices of the Masons at Santa Ana,
within a few miles of Rristol Springs j California, near Los Augeles. h:
CHARLES EVANS 111 GUI S
( II AlO l S W. I AIRHANKS
l'or President .
Kor Vice-President
FOR PRESHIICNTIAL ELECTORS:-
Hracken. Walter 1! Republican Party
Flunigan, P. L Republican Party
Mcllride, Allan G Republican Party
l'or President
Kor Vice-President
FOR PRESIDENTIAL ERECTORS:
Harris, Jud
Rearick, J. E
Zeigler, Mrs. Mollie T
I.LAN I,. ItEXSOX
GEORGE li. KIRKPATHICk
Socialist Party
Socialist Party
Socialist Party
Miss Sarali C. Grant, of St. Paul,
Minn., has been making a vigorous
and effective campaign In this vicin
ity during the past week In the in
terest of the Woman's party.
I'hursday evening, Oct. 20, she
spoke to a lar("e audience in Thomp
son's hall on the policy of the Na
tional Woman's paty, emphasizing
its non-partisan nature, and she im
!: sc.l everyone witli her sincerity
and carries' eoss. A:i she expresses
it, the sir . t of the organization Is
nat'on-d woman's suffrage and sun-
port is therefore being withheld
from that party which has had the
. . . Socialist Party
Democratic l'arty
Republican Party
a spring-hanger on the car broke
and darkness came on before tem
porary repairs were completed. '
The roads fork nt Rristol Springs
and In the darkness Mr. Miller failed
to noto IhJ road that turns off to
Pioche. He took the wrong road
and before ho realized his mistake
,he had gone many miles in an al
most opposite direction from the
camp he wished to reach. After
vainly trying to locate the right road
the hour of their bereavement, th
Record joins the people of Lincoln
and Clark counties in extending to
the widow and three sons of Mr.
Itreoze their 'sincere sympathy.
PRIVATE CAR I.IXES
ARE TO ItE ASSESSED
l'or Cnite.l States Senator:
Miller, A. Grant
Pittman, Key
Piatt, Samuel
l'or Representative in Congress:
('nine, Edwin E Democratic Party
Roberts. E. E Republican Party
Scanlan, M. J Socialist Party
l'or Justice of the Supreme Court:
MeNamara, J. E
Morgan, '1'. F
Sanders, J. A
For Clerk of the Supreme Court:
Kennel t, William Democratic Party
McKay, R. A Republican Party .
Steele. C. A Socialist Party
l'or Long Term Regent of I'niveivit.v:
Abel, J. F Republican Party
Curler, li. F Republican Party
Henderson, Charles H , Democratic Party
Parker, Lucy V Socialist, Party
Taylor, Justus E Socialist Party
Van Nagell, J. R Democratic Party
For Short Term Regent of I'nlversily :
Raker, Edna Republican Party"
Kent, I. II Democratic l'arty
Mi Quest ian, J. Fay Socialist Party
Kor State Senator:
Campbell, Dr. J. D. ..-v w Independent.
power during the past four years
to grant political freedom to twenty
million women in the east through
the Susan IV Anthony amendment,
because more than two-thirds of the
Democratic majority voted against
its passage. Local branches of the
party were organized in Pioche and
Pnnaca witli the following officers:
Pioche Chairman, Mrs. Jno. 11.
Cook; vice-chairman, Mrs. M. L. Lee,
Mrs. Alexander Orr and Mrs. Frank
lin: secretary, Mrs. Ethel Orr. Pn
naca Chairman, Mrs. Win. Mutter;
vice-chairman, Miss Ida Sutherland
anil Mrs. Annie Edwards. Miss
Grant also visited Eagle Valley and
left Wednesday for Ely via. Preston
and Lund.
Lincoln-Douglas I'p-to-Date
Last Saturday the "natives" were
treated to something unusual in the
form of a joint debate between the
Crusading Suffragette. Sarali Grant
and the Hon. Charles Lee Horsey.
The affray was staged at. Thomp
son's hall, and quite a goodly
MEN INDITED KOR
GAMItLlXU PLEAD Gl'11TV
RepuhtU'au l'arty
Democratic Parly
Republican Party
.... Independent
Democratic Party
The tax commission at ils session
yesterday assessed the private owrcd
car lines operating in the state of
until 1:30 o'clock in the morning it i N-Pvn,hl. Thi8 , the flrsl time iM
was decided by Mr. Miller and the the exiK(etu.e (lf tho tl)X cotniiiiKsit.n
chauffeur and reporter who uccotu
pany him to camp In the car and
wait for daylight before resuming
the search.
The weather is cold at this time
that these private owned couipan'e
have been assessed, the old law un
der which the commiss'on was op v
atiug failing to give them the pov. -
er, hut the law pas,ed by the lesn-
loriu
nf year in the higher altitudes of )atlire in mr) Kivea tlie allt,
Nevada and in addition a brisk winu
that searched the marrow of one's
bones was blowing all night. Then,
too, the party had had no dinner
that evening and the pangs of hun
ger added to the lack of gayety of
the party. Huddled aide by side in
the tonneau of the auto the three
weary pilgrims shivered until the
dawn enabled them to get' a good
view of the country and eventually
locate the right road.
Pioche was reached Monday noon
and Miller, who was thoroughly ex
hausted and apparently on the verge
of pneumonia, was put to bed and a
physician summoned. His skill, to
gether with the care and atten
tion of Mrs. Cook, of the Moun
tain View hotel, succeeded in
under which the commission actol
yesterday.
There are quite a number of t'.iese
private owned car lines operating on
j the railroads of the slate and their
assessable property ranges ail tiie
way in valuation from a few hun
dred dollars to $500,000. About
nine of these companies have suffi
cient prooeriv K: t :inie under the la".'
The total assessed valuations of
the proper y of these companies as
prepared by ti,-. lax commission, ti
tals $j69,9SS ; !. wniih will hiing
an increased iv.venu? to the stale,
counties and municipalities of $11,
970, or practically enough money to
pay the expenses of the tax conim.)
sion each year.
The largest concern operating
Lee, M. L
Stewart, W. T. Sr.
Kor Assemblyman:
Reason, L. 11.
Garrison, C. W Democratic Party
Kor SherltV:
Christensen. C. 1
Nesbitt, James A
Orr, R. R Republican Party
l'or Treasurer:
('has. Culverwell r Democratic Party
Elmer R. Edwards Republican Nominee
l'or Assessor:
Konnow, Dan J Democratic Party
Kor Recorder and Auditor:
Riding. Ellis Republican Party
Wilcox, Jennie W Democratic Party
Kor County Clerk : j
Denton. W. A Democratic Party
Harris, W. II Republican Party
Kor District Attorney and Kx-Otliito Public Administrator:
Orr, Win. E Democratic Party
Osborne, T. J Republican Party
Kor ( omity Commissioner (Look Term):
llollinger, James N Republican Party
Mathews, Philip Deiuocral ic Parly
l'or County Commissioner (Short Term):
Detinue, Jos., Jr Republican Party
Ryan, James Democratic l'arty
l'or Member of County School Hoard ( Long; Term):
Warren, Wilma li Democratic Party
Kor Menihernf County School Hoard (Short Term):
Edwards, Mrs. E. L Republican l'arty
Kor Justice of the Peace (Csliciue Township):
Denkle, E. J Democratic Party
Palmer, Frank Republican I'urly
. . l'or Justice of Hie Peace, (Pioche Township) :
Thomas, A. W f Republican Purty
l'or Jo -lice of the Peace, (Paiiaca Township):
Lee, F. (' Democratic Party
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and the Official
Heal, at mv office at Pioche, Nevada, this 17th day of October. A. D. 1916.
Seal ('HAS. Cl'LVERWELL, County Clerk.
A very satisfactory ending was
readied in the gambling cases when
those under indictment came into
court Monday last, changed their
number of both the fair and fowl 1'1,'"S to guilty and threw themselves
sexes were present. on the mercy of the court. This
Without umpire, referee or time- came as the result of tho conviction
keeper, Miss Grant stepped Into the of Lon Grosheck after the Ion? and
ring and proceeded to deliver a care- hard fought, battle last week.
fully wrapped package of lemons to Those who entered pleas of guilty
the Democrats In general and Wil- to the charge of violating the gnmh-
son In particular,, the label on the ling law as set. forth '.n the Indict
said package reading, "Resolved that mollis were Joe Nakagawa, (whoae
the Women's parly Is Justified In at- trial had resulted In a disagreement
tempting to defeat President Wllmm by the jury), Ed. Van, of tha"00,"
and the Democratic candidates for Carl Wasorbach, of the "Star," M.
the Senate and Douse In Nevada." , Pollard, of Hie Overland bar, Fred
Then Judge Horsey, witli true south- .1. pearce of the Las Vegas and O.
em chivalry, accepted the package, D. Hicks.
unwrapped tho lemons, and with the Tuesday afternoon all, Including
addition "of a little sugar and aqua Lon Grosheck, came Into court for
pttrn, proved that they might he sentenco. In view of the fact that
preslidigitated Into a very palatable thoCrosbock case was in the natttra
drink. Miss Grunt then came buck of a test case und that all defond
aml intimated they might also be -ants were equally guilty, the court
imposed a sentence of Imprisonment
used in tho concoction of other bev
erages not so highly to bo recom
mended. When the question was
finally submit tetl to arbitration, It
was decreed that instead of awalt-
of not less than otio nor more than
live years on each, then suspended
the sentences. This action nf tho
court in suspending the Grosheck
ing a newspaper decision, as was j sentence with the others gave gon
suggesled by the audience, the vie-i oral satisfaction. The suspension of
tor be determined by the counting of Leniences operates so long as the
the ballots on election day. 'defendants refrain from violating
the gambling law. Las Vegas Age.
LETTER CONCERNING
"JUDGE SANDERS
TONOPAII MINING SCHOOL
MAKING GOOD HEADWAY
1'n.ler Hie princlpalshlp of E. R.
llennelt the Tonopuh Mining School
is entering upon its second yeur with
a very promising outlook for In
creasing Its sphere of usefulness.
This school was Instituted last year
as an extension division of the Mack-
TRAMNKIt TO HE SHOT LADIES WOODROW
OX FRIDAY, NOVEMBER it WILSON t'l-l 15
restoring Miller and he was enabled the.e car lines is the Pacific Fiuil
to resume his campaign trip. company, whose assessed valuation
Outside of the discomfort and amounts to $536,000. Next are the
I
J. Frank Trimmer, convicted ofj "Many men of many minds" np
the murder of Mrs. Jean Quilicl, of plies also to women. In proof of
Imlay, four vears ago, will he shot which, some of the ladies of Pioche
in the Nevada state prison on No-, endeavoring to counteract the
vember 3, between the hours of 9 ' eff,'c,s of Miss G"l'H 'laiKn by
a. m. and 3 p, m. The order of ex- n?aniz.lng a Wilson club. At the
ecution was issued by Judge Ducker nrst m,!,!,inR hpW We.lnea.lay. about
of Humboldt county, sitting in Judge lif' mwrt enrolled and the rol
Stoddard's court at Reuo. Judge , ,owln "'N"-0 wore ePctPd; Vrm -
Mrs. a. a. t arman; vice president,
Pioche, Nevada.
()c idler 2R, 1916
To the Editor of the Record, !
Dear Sir:
1 desire to state a few of the rea
sons which load mo to the belief
Hint Hon. J. A.' Sanders should be Hcliool of Mines on tho theory
elected to the high ollico of Assoc!- J Hint a milling camp Is the most leg
ate Justice of Hie Supreme Court of 1 n,i placo for practical instruction ill
this slate. - ; mining, Is already gaining cnnslder-
1. He received thorough tridning ' llt iro,j(lt,R , Rml,,rll Nevada.
in t lie law ami in tne nigiiesi einicai , Th(, fiIII.ollmt tor this term
principles of that profession at the ' W1H tw(,11(v.Ve nil inquiries from
University of Virginia, that great in- ! ,'Hifl,rna am Arizona regardln.?
solution which requires for gradua-; pl,t nim. g,ow tllB 8chooi lH attrccl-
tion tlie highest, stanilnrit oi -any , ,, ,,uentlon oulslde of the Htuto.
Ducker presided over the trial of
Tramner in Reno, in February, 1913 j
danger Mr. Miller was keenly dis
appointed at even a short interup
tlon of his successful campaign trip.
A large audience was present in the
Opera House Sunday night to hear
Ujim, many having come in from
mines miles away and church serv
ices having been held a half-hour
earlier in order that the entire popu
lation of Pioche might be present nt
the speakhig.
The audience waited patiently un
til 9:30 before hope was abandoned
and it was dismissed. Two auto
parties went out In search of Mr.
Union Tank Line company and other
smaller concerns which go to make
up the grand total of nearly $570,
000. Carson Appeal.
Kx-Governor to Wed
Dispatches from Los Angeles an
nounce that Tasker L. Oddie, former
governor of Nevada, Is soon to lead
to the Altar Mrs. Daisy MacKeigan,
of Lbs Angeles. The governor's
many friends throughout the state
will join with the record in wishing
for him and his bride a long, happy
and prosperous life. Ely Record.
Mrs. T. K. Lynch; Secretary, Mrs.
Wm. C. Hrowne; treasurer, Miss
Louise Franks. Hetween now and
election day the club will make a
vigorous campaigne for its "Idol
Win. Emerson llead
Wm. Kmcrson, a former well
known Pioche resident died at Ton-jan,j tlle opening rally will be held
opah recently after a very brief ill-1 at Thompson's hall Saturday night,
ness of pneumonia. Mr. Emerson, The "Wilson Day", ceremonies will
has, for some time past been in the j include the reading of the presl
emph.y of the Quinn Canyon Cattle . acceptance, by Mrs. Warren, and a
company, nt w hose ranch he con- j speech on the issues of the day by
traded the fatal disease. He (Judge Horsey, to be followed by a
was aged about forty years, and be-; free dance.
sides his many friends in Pioche i a
law school In America.
2. lie has had many years suc
cessful practice in the law, which
coupled with his educational found
ation in the knowledge of legal and
equitable principles, has made of him
a thorough, well-equipped lawyer.
3. Ill his practice in this State
he has been highly successful, hav
ing served tlie people of Nye county
the past three terms in Hie ollice of
District Attorney In a manner re
llecting great credit upon himself
and tlie ollice lie has held.
4. As District Attorney he has
consistently and vigorously enforced
the eight-hour law, the law against
foremen, superintendents, ets., ex
torting from worklngmen pay for
jobs, the law conducive to safety in
the working of mines, and the laws
regulating the public utility corpo
rations of the State. Some of his
Most of Hie students are taking the
. oiirsos offered In addition to regu
lar daily labor. The Instruction is
free and classes are nrranged to suit
tlie convenience of the students. Last
year though the preparatory work
done In the. Tonopah School of Mines
two men were enabled to enter the
university this year. New equip
ment has recently been added to Hit!
assaying and surveying departments
will increase the efficiency of instruo
tion in those subjects.
snntial to the proper application of
those principles to the cases upon
which he would have to uct as Su
preme Court Justice.
Without in any manner disparag
ing the qualifications of Mr. Sand
ers' opponents, I unhesitatingly state
that 1 believe the high interests of
the bench and bar. of persons hav-
legal victories in the District and Su-1 ing litigation before the Supreme
preme Courts of Nevada in uphold-1 Court and the public, generally, will
ing the laws it was his duty to en-
and vicinity, he leaves a brother J- A- -esnitt, (has. l ulverw ell, force have been notable and brilliant
Charles, and a widowed mother at'('l"s Garrison, W. K. Denton, W. 5. His mental qualities assure
Beaver, Vtah, to mourn his loss. !T- Stewart, Sr., Mrs. Jennie Wilcox a broad, humane conception of the
land Pbll. Mathews were at. Rristol I .irinrmlns nnderlvlnir tho trim ml.
E. D. Smiley motored to Ely last J for a few hours Wednesday night ministration of Justice and equity,
Saturday with his family. campaigning. and that high quality of courage es-
he best served by the election of Mr.
Sandora as Associate Justice of the
Supreme Court on the 7lh of No
vember next.
Very sincerely yours,
CHAS. LEE HORSEY
(Advertisement)
