antbefn fleM)
VOL. LI.
LIBERTY, MISSISSIPPI, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1916.
FINDS BRITISH
TRENCHES LAST
WORD IN SKILL
Observer Says They Are Devoid
of Traps for Drawing En
emy's Fire.
THINKS THE FOE UNNERVED
Condition of German Prisoners Said to
Indicate That the Strain Is Tell
ing on the Whole Army Kind,
nesa Surprises Captives.
London. Some new points of view
:ire preseuted in the course of an ar
ticle from an authoritative British
source. Just what a man will see
and what he Is likely to feel If he vis
its the allied front line near the
Somnie at the point where the Brit
ish army lias just made one of its
many steps forward are the writer's
theme. After describing the general
character of the country he recounts
his progr,ess through the communica
tion trenches.
Walking with your head two feet
under cover along a neat crack in the
earth with a sharp corner every few
yards, finally you turn -the Inst cor
ner into the actual firing trench. It is
a trench to gladden the connoisseur's
heart How the men must have
worked whenever they were not fight
ing and Is digging less dear than
fighting to the soul of youth? In or
der to model this perfect line of de
fense and offense, its shapely firing
step und clear-cut verticle walls and
massively squared transverses! Here
Is no gapping V-shaped ditch lo col
lect the enemy's trench mortars and
Invite hiH wandering whlzbangs. In,
and the men know it. You walk along
the trench and see just pride as well
as confidence in their faces.
It is noon now, and some of them
are blowing on hot tea to cool it, or
eating out of their dixies hot slew.of
meat, potatoes and pens. It has not
always been thus in the English tiring
trench. Ttfe English only learn war
in each of their wars by degrees, but
now they buve learned it. The day Is
line, aud other men are .asleep, basking-
like nits in a state of beatitude
on little sunny shelves and bunks cun
ningly sculptured out of the trenches'
firm clay walls.
One little knot of men off duty arc
bending over a comic paper at u cor
ner. The wury old trench dweller al
ways likes a corner, because he can
jump round it ht the shortest notice
and put a solid wall of earth between
himself and anything noxious that
drops la. On the other side another
group cheerfully reopens that undying
theme of debate the British soldiers
the merits and demerits of the salient
Ht Ypres.
"How lon was you at Wipers?"
"Pouf months."
"Well, I was there five months; so
what right have you to speak?"
A general laugh greets this method
of proof and someone else cuts In.
Sentries Watch Germans.
You meet officers anxious about noth
ing except to know what there is In
the last English papers. Sentries on
duty, with nil the crowns of their
gross-green steel helmets dipped cun
ningly down to the parapet'! level, re
port that nothing Is stirring over the
way. These helmets used to be ugly
and not highly protective. They looked
like the barber's basin that Don Quix
ote took to be the helmet of Mam
brina. The new make of helmet Is
prettier, nnd also more virtuous. It
overs more of the neck, though not
so much as the blue-steel skull caps
NEW BOMB MOST DEADLY YET
Dropped From Aeroplanes, the Device
Will Explode. Over Troops
Gas Will Cause Death.
Hempstead, I I. Army experts
who have exicrlmented here with a
Tore or more of aerial bombs lo a
arch for the most effective form of
explosive for use In war neroplancs,
have found a bomb of high explosive
Wwer, combined with the use of dead
lj gases, the invention of :m Amerl
an, which is said to excel In destruc
Oveness any similar weapon known
here or in Europe. The ti-sis just con
cluded proved so uniformly satisfac
tory, it was said, that a it port would
fk preseuted to the war department,
advising the use of the bomb iu the
riatlon service.
. iiaiivn, iu cuii'm.j, in'
FrnnUfort arsenal, raLtartflphla.
ATontor, has offered Its txelasiv umm
tO tho ITnltrwl Qtotsw. L.kHa 1"1.
Barlow bomb Is six feet In length ;!
Pproximately five Inches in diameter,
shaped like n torpedo. Id addition to nn
Ploslve charge si trinitrotoluol It con-
of the Kronen, with their turned-down
unms, ami Its lines are artistic. Worn
at the proper angle, it makes the come
ly young sentry look rather like Dona
tello's David at Florence.
With stooping heads, the sen tries re
port "nothing doing." That means
nothing visible, nothing audible.
Peering over the parapet for a mo
ment you see only a wilderness of
bare earth, pitted thickly with conical
holes from three to eight feet deep.
Four hundred feet away is the skele
ton of a dead village. No sign of life
is to be seen there except perhaps one
of the larks which sing cheerfully
through cannonades that would make
the pheasants In faraway Sussex nerv
ous, or else a big hawk. slowly quarter
ing mound and sending the larks Into
n retirement as modest as that of Ger
man air men. And yet you know that
that waste Is Infested; thnt you need
only to raise your head a foot higher
to bring a bullet dipping Itself with
a quiet flick into the loose earth behind
you; that If you crawled out on your
stomach nnd peeped over the edge of
ench shell hole you reached you would
come at last to one In which men in
wide-skirted g'ruy' tunics with narrow
bands round their caps were crouching,
some of them nursing their one good
friend, a machine gun, some of them
digging hard to connect hole with hole
till a row of fortuitous dots Is turned
into a line; some of them resting
tucked into little cavities scooped In
the earth or near the side wall of a
quarry, and staring apprehensively up
at bomb-laden British biplanes wheel
ing about in the sky overhead as the
larks in the grass look up at a hawk.
Kindness Surprises Captives.
You know alf this, because on the
way up this morning you talked with
a number of Prussian and Saxon pris
oners in one of the cages at the little
camps where the latest captives rest
for some days out of range of their
friends' heavy guns till they can be
sent by train to the base or to Eng
land. Three days ago they came down
broken-hearted to tho cage, their faces
lined and drawn with mental over
strain, some of them still mechanical
ly making deprecatory gestures of sur
render and entreaty. As they marched
today nil the lines were smoothed out.
They had been fed and had slept for
whole nights, and had found that the
"murderers" described to them by
their own sergeants Inflicted nothing
but offers of cigarettes. So they be
gan to expand in the unexpected sun
shine of good treatment nnd they -told
what life had been like In the shell
holes, its good points nnd its bad. The
food, It had been good, but sometimes
It did not come because the British
guns would draw a kind of fence of
falling shrapnel across a piece of
country, a sort of showerbath of bul
lets dropping along the line, so nobody
could cross the line without being hurt.
Still the bread and meat and chocolate,
when they did come, were good and
the water was sometimes mineral wa
ter In bottles. The trouble was that
the British guns would not cease fir
ing nnd the British aeroplanes would
not go away,, nor the German ones
come out of their sheds.
Sometimes the men in the sheilhole
would sec British troops in the open
within rifle range, but would not dure
shoot lest British airmen should see
where they were and send word to a
British gun nnd bring down a high ex
plosive shell ou the old sbellhole to
bury them all nllvc by a second rear
rangement of the earth. You perceive
this apprehension Just because you
twice today have seen the end of a
stiff blnck-booted leg protruding out of
the wull of on old sheilhole.
: Other questions about their life at
the front the prisoners answered as
freely. Had they talked politics? Yes,
there were any number of Social Dem
ocrats In the army and every one
thought great changes would come
when the war was over, but not now.
Were there any desertions? No.
Many men would bo glad to be pris
oners, but would not desert Many
more still would surrender If the Ger
man officers were not so quick to shoot
tains n gas chamber lu which a new
and secret combination of gas is used.
Experts estimate that the bomb has
a fatal destructive radius of at least
100 yards. With the use of minimum
explosive charges, at elevations of 200
to 2,000 feet, the tests wore most satis
factory, it was said, although only suf
llcieut explosive was used to crack the
shell of the torpedo.
One of the chief features of the
bomb, in which it differs radically
from bombs which depend for bursting
force on contact with the earth or
other objects, Is that It may be explod
ed In the air with full power. This is
said to enhance Its destructive power
to a much larger degree thun any
known form of contact bomb, as It
may be exploded over the heads of
troops and spread gases earthward
over a larger surface.
By means of nn electric liming de
vice the operator of an aeroplane, It
Is stated, will be able to regulate to
second the time of the explosion of
ilia bomb'. Another unique feature, of
his .venpon permits of Its use ns an
aerial torpedo when not desired to use
It an a "drop" explosive. Tho bomb
men who put up their hands, nnd If
all the German soldiers knew that the
allies did not kill prisoners nor have
them scalped by savages.
Strain on German Nerves.
Those, then, are the kind of men,
and that is the kind of life and state
of mind which exist beyond the 800
intervening yards of blank ground. On
some early day, perhaps, an incessant
sequence of separate shell bursts
among and around them at Intervals
will change In an Instant Into an out
burst of furious, continuous barking
like suddenly angered dogs, or that of
a great many suddenly angered dogs.
Tho earth of their trench nnd In front
of It and benind It will begin to dance
up In fountains, like the surface of a
puddle during a very heavy rain, only
that all the earth fountains aro 20
feet high. Perhaps the Germans will
Just bo able to see through a hole in
the smoke that the British parapet,
where not a sign of human habitation
had been seen before, bristles with men
standing up at full height and then
moving forward. In the next 20 min
utes many capricious fates will befall
individuals on both sides, but underly
ing this seeming confusion In the des
tinies of atoms-causes win still be hav
ing their natural effects. The average
German soldier, having endured defeat
already, will fight less well than he
did. His nerves having suffered the
strain of those new experiences in the
shellholes will hold out less long that
they used to. His mind having learned
that surrender Into the hands of .Eng
lishmen docs not mean death or ill
usage, but merely release from danger
and exhaustion, he will be less averse
to surrender than he was.
The German 'army naturally scored
last year by being quicker than the
allies to see that success In trench
warfare was to the side with the most
munitions. It mode competition In
munition making and it has been dis
tanced iu that competition, and now
the wide advancing line of English in
fantry will enter the German trench,
a trench shattered out of shape as no
allied trench ever has been shattered.
Even at Verdun causes will have their
effects, though sometimes It may not
seem, like It. However long the war
may yet last it has begun to have the
character of a winding up. Even a
minor English attack on the short
length of trench near the Somme be
gins to be recognizable now as one of
the many forms that have to he gone
through one after another In liquidat
ing a business that Is clearly bankrupt.
KAISER SWEATS AT HARVEST
Cologne Volkszeitung Tells How the
Emperor Worked In Shirtsleeves
With His Peasant Folk.
Amsterdam. The story of the
kaiser working In the harvest fields Is
told by the Cologne Volkszeitung as
follows :
"Why do the people run? Why do
they rush to the fields? To see the
kaiser. It Is between 5 and 7 In the
evening. The laborers are busy load
ing their carts with sheaves. Sudden
ly all hands are Idle; all caps are
doffed ; everybody stands aghast.
'The kaiser Is coming. The 'all high
est' Is already on the spot 1 He takes
off his coat! In his shirtsleeves the
head of the German empire works In
the field! He lends a band to secure
for himself God's golden blessing. As
the kaiser does, so do the high officials
and officers. And look! Do you not
see our imperial chancellor working?
It Is true! It Is he.
"With surprise the spectators behold
the kaiser wiping the sweat from his
brow with his sleeve. We sec him sit
ting among the laborers drinking wa
ter from a common Jug. Like a father
he talks to the children. He asks
them to run across the stubhlefleld and,
laughing heartily at the enjoyment of
the children, gives them little presents."
The paper pulp shortage In foreign
countries Is causing many newspapers
to suspend publication.
may be made with a new type of elec
tric motor nnd propeller, which would
enable the aviation operator to fire It
horizontally, or to direct it toward a
target at any angle.
FIELD KITCHEN ON WHEELS
Designed for Use on Border, Machine
Will Cook for 100 Men Many
Being Made for Army.
Philadelphia. A field kitchen on
wheels which bakes, roasts and fries
food for 100 men, having been de
signed for use on the border, has been
completed in this city and turned over
to tho Baldwin Locomotive works
which contracted for Its construction.
It complies with United States army
regulations and work on others has
been undertaken. The new machine
has no locomotive power, but Is built
to be attached to a motor truck. It
weighs 3,000 pounds and is construct
ed to use wood for fuel.
J. G. Montague, twenty, has been ap
pointed a Justice of the peace In Ban
dera, Tex.
MUSCLES KELP MYERS
Elmer Myers Worked in Black
smith's Shop When a Boy.
Manager Connie Mack Says Youngster
Is Greatest Pitcher He Ever De
velopedHas Splendid Con
trol and Curve Ball.
Muscles developed as a kid puffing
bellows and massaging the anvil in his
dad's blacksmith shop In New York
Springs, Adams county, Pennsylvania,
are making Elmer Myers famous.
"Myers Is the greatest young pitcher
I have ever developed. Better than
Plank, Bender of Coombs? Yes, sir!
Myers does not know as much about
pitching as these old stars, but right
today he is a better pitcher than any
of them were In their prime."
That is Connie Mack's tribute to
the graduate blacksmith.
The youngster Is a right-hander,
stands six feet three Inches tall, and
ans a long pair of arms, which aid
him in getting closer to the batsman
before he lets the ball go out of his
hand.
The youngster has splendid control,
a corking curve ball and a graceful,
Elmer Myers.
easy delivery, which gets the ball over
the plate almost before tho batter real
izes It. , In three games against Wash
ington,' Detroit and St. Louis In tho
same week, only twelve hits were
made off htm.
Mack predicts that before the cinj
of next season Myers will rank with
Walter Johnson and Grovcr Alexander.
GEORGE SISLER'S GREAT AIM
Took Up Baseball Because of Finan
cial Returns Will Devote Time
In Winter to Engineering.
"I took up professional baseball af
ter receiving a diploma In mechanical
engineering at the
University of
Michigan because
the financial re
turns were there,"
remarked George
Sisler of the. St
Louis Browns, the
other'day. "A
man starting in a
profession finds It
hard at first, as
money comes in
slowly and there
Is'much work and
worry.
"I intend to use
the winter months
to advantage,
however, by keep
ing In touch with
engineering. Bnse-
George Sisler.
ball is a grand game and I want to get
to the top If possible. At the present
rate, I think 1 can retire In 12 years
with a fortune.
"One thing: I will never ploy In
the minors. As soon as I start to slow
down I will quit, and then sec what I
can do with mechanical engineering."
First Baseman for Mack.
Connie Mack has another first base
man, n youngster picked up from tho
lots' In Washington by the name of
Frnzier.
Players Start Shoe Shop.
Marty O'Toole and Buck O'Brien
have opened a shoo store in Brockton,
Mass., which they will personally look
after durteg the off-season.
Griffith Get, Yingling.
Clnrk Griffith will get Earl Yingling,
formerly of the Robins, back from the
Minneapolis club of the American as-oclatlOQ.
FEAT OF LAST WORLD'S SERIES OUTDONE
cfJCH smjdl. oiTCMotmrrae jake fouitfjen
PARTICIPANTS IN GREAT BASEBALL PLAYS.
The most sensational play of tho last world's series was outdone In the
first Inning of n recent Indian-White Sox game when Chick Gandll deflected
Fournler's smash to Ivan Howard and then raced back to first in time to take.
Howard's throw.
That gave Gandll both an assist and putout on the same out at first.
In the big series Dode Paskert was the victim of a putout which fairly
made spectators and scribes bubble over with enthusiasm. Hoblltzell, Red
Box first sacker, deflected the smash, and Second Sacker Jack Barry fielded
It one handed to Pitcher Foster, who covered first.
In this Indian piny, Gandll not only hod a furious smash to deflect, but he
had to use a quick noodle in turning baek to first instead of dashing after
the ball. -
PIRATES TWICE BUY BIGBEE
First Signed in 1914 and Let Go With
out Even So Much as Trial
Now Costs $5,000.
Along In 1014 a youngster named
Blgbee was proving a sensation with
the baseball team of the University of
Oregon nnd a crafty nnd far-seeing
Pittsburgh scout signed him aud then
somebody baek In Pittsburgh released
him without even so much as a trial
The youngster finished school and
went out to make his way In baseball
A couple of weeks ago the Pittsburgh
club paid $5,000 to Tacoma for Ms
contract. He is the same Carson Blg
bee released by Pittsburgh without a
looking over In 1914. The scouts who
have watched his work say he Is not
a second Ty Cobb, but rather he Is a
second Willie Keeler. He Is a little
fellow, fast as a flash, who can hit,
run and field, and unless the dope Is
all wrong he should be a star In th
game for some time to come.
SEVEN HITS IN SINGLE GAME
Wilbur Robinson Performed That
Feat While Playing With Balti
more Twenty-Four Years Ago.
How many baseball fans ever wit
nessed a player making seven hits In a
game? Not many, for there have been
very few Instances that a i layer ever
accomplished the feat. The only man
who ever performed that unusual stunt
In the National league was Wllbnr
Robinson, then with Baltimore and
Wilbur Robinson.
now manager of the Brooklyn leadens
lu tho National luague race. It was
In lt92 when "Bobby'' raade his seven
straight ..hits In a game against St.
Louis. In this contest the Baltimore
team scored 25 runs on 25 hits, against
four runs mvde by St. Louis. One of
Robinson's bits was ( doOble, but he
was not much faster' than he is now,
for all he could do.. was to score a
single run during the gnim:.
Members of Williams Family.
The Williams family Is well repre
sented In major league baseball. Both
the White Sox and the Athletics have
pitchers of this name, Washington
has a catcher, and the St. Louis and
Chicago teams of the National league
add to the list with Cy nnd Charley
Williams.
""John McGraw denies the report that
he contemplates retiring from baseball.
Babe Adams was turned loose by
the Pirates Just when the Pittsburgh
fans were beginning to call him Pop.
With seven teams In the hunt, the
American league race bids fair to be
one of those battles that keeps the
fans in their seats until the last game
Is played.
Connie Mack has only Amos Strunk,
outfielder, nnd Stuffy Melnnls, of his
world's famous combination, remain
ing with the squad he Is trying to re
construct. Manager Joe 'ftnker and Pitcher
Mordecai Brown arc the only remaining
players at present members of the
famous Cub outfit of a few years ago,
Eighteen pitchers have been se
cured by the Cleveland American
league club for next season. It is ex
pected many more will be added from
which to finally select the staff.
President Heinemann ef the New
Orleans Southern league club has
announced the sale to the Cleveland
Americans of Pitcher Clarence Smith,
Crftcher Henry De Berry, and Outfield
er Milo Allison.
Clarence Mitchell, the Cincinnati
southpaw, Is one of the best hitting
pitchers in Uie major leagues, and
Mathewson Is said to bo considering
the Idea of converting him Into an out
fielder, Irving Kantlehner of the Pirates Is
(he real hard-luck pitcher of the year.
He has lost nine games this season In
which not a run has been scored by his
team mates. In one of these games he
allowed but four hits.
Lew McCarty may not be a satis
factory first baseman, but he certain
ly has shown tho batting punch this
season. In 60 games, according to
one set of averages kept, he has bat
ted 4128. thus being the leader of his
league with the stick.
Among the players recalled by the
New Yorks Is the veteran backstop,
Ed Sweeney. Sweeney has been catch
lug finely for Roger Bresnahan's To
ledo team this year and is counted
among the real come-backs of the
season.
Weaver Plays Rattling Game.
Whether he Is playiuu at third base
or at shortstop Buck Weaver pqts up
a rattling game.
Break Attendance Records,
The Yankees have broken nil Ameri
can league attendance reeords at home
this year.
