The Echo has a
reading circulation
of over 4.000 per
sons who trade in
Leavenworth. Ad
vertise and increase
your business.
Vol. 13. No. 43
ELECTRIFYING GREAT
NORTHERN RAILROAD
Between Seattle and Spokane—Power to
Be Developed on Chelan River
100,000 h. p. Capacity
The fact that the Great Northern
line between Spokane and the coast,
approximately 400 miles, would at no
distant diy be electrified has been
known ever since the company began
buying water rights on the Chelan
river, more than a year ago. It was
generally understood that the company
was awaiting the outcome of the Mil
waukee road's experiment in Idaho and
Montana, and to profit by their exper
ience. The operation of great railroad
systems by electricity has not passed
the experimental stage. Much re
mains to be learned that means econ
omy in the installation of the system.
That the Milwaukee road has made a
success of her electrification of over
four hundred miles of road thru Mon
tana and Idaho there is no longer any
doubt, and that she will electrify her
line thru the state of Washington in the
near future is also reasonably certain.
Work on the Great Northern power
plant, on the Chelan river, near where
that river empties into the Columbia,
will begin as early in the spring as
work can be successfully carried on.
It will require about thirty months
to complete the work, which will cost,
with the electrical machinery about
six million dollars. Somewhere in the
neighborhood of twelve hundred thou
sand dollars will be paid out for labor,
and most of this will be spent in Che
lan county and will materially benefit
every part.
The Wenatchee World of Friday last
stated that the power plant, generating
eight thousand horse power, and now
furnishing the power to operate trains
thru the Cascade tunnel, would be
abandoned. There are several reasons
for considering this bit of information
gratuitous, and originating in Wenat
chee. In none of the daily newspa
pers at Spokane or Seattle, in which
the electrification story was also printed
last week, was mention made of the
fact that the Leavenworth plant was to
be abandoned. The power plant near
this point gives employment to some
half dozen men, possibly eight, and
their removal would not cut enough
figure in the prosperity of Leavenworth
to be taken into account. It is not
because the railroad company wants to
keep their employes at work that the
plant up the canyon will not be aban
doned but because the power de
veloped is valuable in the operation of
the road, and cheaper than the power
developed with coal. If they have
more power than they can use the
company can sell it. There is a mar
ket for all the power that can be de
veloped in the state of Washington,
either for lighting or power purposes.
Leavenworth Apples Beginning
to Move
Mr. F. T. Motteler says he shipt
four cars of apples out of his warehouse
last week and will ship one or more
every day this week. His warehouse
is full of apples and packing and load- |
ing is going on every day. Leaven
worth's contribution to the valley's out
put will amount in round numbers to
forty cars. The trees in this immedi
ate vicinity are just coming into bear
ing and the yield will increase for many
years, as the trees get older. A num
ber of young orchards, some of forty
acres extent, are not yet in bearing.
Wnen all the trees in the Leavenworth
■district ?om<r ir*o full bearing vfi will.
count our apple shipments by the
hundreds of car 1!, and the time is only
a few years ofi.
Better Load L'p on Coal Now
The shortage of cars threatens a coal
famine. The prudent man would place
his order now. Lump coal, steam coal
and bricketts. at Motteler's. Phone
335. 43tf F. T. Motteler.
Tlhe Heavenvpottb iScbo
Helping Argentine farmers
Under the republican tariff law, im
ports of corn were practically nil. In
the first nine months of the democratic
tariff, before the outbreak of the war in
! Europe, we imported corn to the value
of $7,564,699. That was seven mill
ion dollars of good American money
sent abroad to pay for the products of
I foreign farms, chiefly in Argentina. It
I was seven million dollars absolutely
lost to American industry. It was
seven million dollars of direct aid to
the building up of agricultural industry
in other lands. It was a loss of seven
I million dollars to the retail merchants
of America, who would have received
' this money in exchange for goods, if
the money had been paid to American
farmers. And yet the Wilson admin
istration expects to get the votes of the
corn growers of America, and of mer
chants and laborers in the corn growing
states.
COUNTY ATHLETIC LEAGUE
ORGANIZED AT WENATCHEE
Superintendent Osborn Elected President
—Basket Ball Will Be Active
This Winter
While attending the county institute
ia session at Wenatchee the first three
days this week, the teachers organized
an athletic association and elected our
school suDerintendent president. The
county was divided into two districts,
Cashmere, Monitor, Wenatchee, Leav
enworth and Chelan compose the first
district and Malaga, Dryden, Sunny
Slope and Entiat the other district.
The schedule arranged is for each team
to have two bouts with every other
team in the district. A track meet
in the spring is also to be arranged.
A debate and declamatory contest is
also on the program the schedule for
which is to be arranged later.
The basket ball season will open in
December, the schedule for which will
be announced at an early date.
Lots of Apples in Lower Valley
Not Picked
Information comes to this office that
the lower valley apple picking is not
progressing as favorably as could be
wished and that there is a possibility
that some injury may be done, unless
the mild weather continues longer than
usual. The crop is heavy and pickers
are scarce. Two weeks ago the schools
were turned out in order to let the
children help in saving the valleys
greatest and most valuable crop. Now
the information comes that it will be
necessary to further extend the vaca
tion, and that all business houses are
releasing as maDy of their men as pos
sible to let them go into the orchards
and help gather the apples. The
market remains on an even keel and
prices paid are generally satisfactory.
The outlook for the future is good and
it is not believed that the price will
slump this year. The foreign demand
is not as good as last year but the home
market is taking more western apples
than formerly.
J. A. Warman, a prominent Peshas
tin apple grower who was here yester
day said apple picking in his locality
was well in hand and would be finished
in a very few days. The greatest
trouble now confronting the growers is
a car shortage. All shippers are having
trouble in getting cars. The railroad
is maksng every effort to furnish cars
promptly but the demand for cars is
greater than the supply.
All Councilmen Will Be Voted
for at Large
In the city primary election, held
Tuesday, Nov. 7, general election day.
all the councilmen must be voted for
in every ward. One councilman is to be
nominated in each of the three wards,
and one councilman at large. A can
didate for mayor, treasurer, attorney
and clerk, is also to be nominated at
the same time.
The Higher Up the Valley You Go the Bigger and Better the Apples Grow
Leavenworth, Wash., Friday, October 27, 1916
WORDS OE SUCCESSFUL
BUSINESS MANAGER
Whether You Like Does Not Matter—ls
His Reasoning Sound?
Charles M. Schwab and the Beth
lehem Steel Co. probably typify to the
mind of the average man the prosperity
which has come to this country since
we began supplying the allied powers of
Europe with their war necessities.
The opinion of Mr. Schwab, therefore,
should be of large value in considering
conditions as they will be after the war
is over.
In a recent number of the magazine,
System, Mr. Schwab has written of our
present industrial situation and of what
he thinks it will be after the war. Then,
says he, "Europe will have an abun
dant supply of labor for I do not expect
the women who have gone into indus
try will easily be turned away from it.
Therefore, European labor will be very
cheap and prices will go down. ** If
Europe be permitted to undersell us in
the home market, she will secure our
gold and be able to finance her own
reconstruction. If, on the contrary, we
adequately protect our home market,
we shall be able not only to supply the
home market but to sell to Europe on
credit.
"What in my mind should be done
both as individuals and as a govern
ment, is to bring business and the gov
ernment into a sane relation. I can
not see any hope ahead for business
and prosperity if success in business is
to be taken as something sordid and
unclean. Where the government can
help, and only the government can
help, is by insuring the stability of all
legitimate business and by guarding
the home market with a tariff expertly
devised, on the basis of protection."
We do not think that Mr. Schwab
will advise anyone to expect either of
these desirable things from the demo
cratic party —which hates business suc
cess and which despises the policy of
protection. The problems of the per
iod after the war cannot be dealt with
except by a party whose leaders stand
for the protective tariff and for the co
operation of the government with all
those who are striving to build up the
industries of the country.
Candidates for Applle Princess
Candidates for the hanor of being
Princess Wenatchee at the National
Apple Show in Spokane, November
20th to 25th:
Miss Marie Walker, Wenatchee
Miss Helen McDonald, Wenatchee
Miss Laura Thornhill, Wenatchee
Miss Flora Bousquet, Wenatchee
Miss Gladys Argenbright, Wenatchee
Miss Margaret Daft, Wenatchee
Miss Carrie Rogers, Entiat
Miss Bernice Churchill, Cashmere
The Princess Wenatchee will be the
popular choice of the readers of The
Echo and other papers in Chelan
county. Just cut out the Coupon
printed in this paper today and vote
for your favorite for this honor, from
among the candidates named above,
and mail to The Echo.
Potatoes Wanted
Wm. O'Rourke, of the Rainier Cafe,
wants ten tons of up-land potatoes and
will pay the cash for them. 43*
SCHOOL NOTES
Much interest was taken by the
Hieh School pupils when a straw vote
was cast for president, governor, con
gressraen and initiative measures 24
and 18.
After three days vacation the pupils
reported for. work Thursday, morning. m
The first literary program of the year
has been arranged and will be given by
the Hiyuskookura society in a few
weeks.
Work in the High school glee club
and orchestra is progressing. The glee
club ai well as the orchestra will have
a number on the Hiyuskookura pro
gram.
Problem of Economic Efficiency
In the development of its intermoun
! tain system the Chicago, Milwaukee
and St. Paul railroad spent $13,000,
--000 electrifying 400 miles to increase
efficiency. This is for the purpose of
hauling larger trains with one electric
engine that generates power on the
down grades, and saves millions annu
ally in fuel and operation.
Laws are now attempted to be en
acted in Montana and other western
states to limit the size of trains and
nullify this increase in economic effi
ciency by the railroads by one half.
The capital invested to get increased
power, to reduce curves and lower
grades will have been thrown away if
such laws are allowed to be enacted to
limit size of trains.
The public demands the maximum
of service at the minimum of expense
and trains that are made up of 60 to
80 carloads carry freight cheaper than
trains of 20 to 30 carloads.
LAUNDRY AND ICE HOUSE
BURNED WEDNESDAY A. M.
Loss on Laundry $7,000—0n Ice House
$2,700— Partially Insured—
Origin Unknown
Wednesday rnorniDg, between one
and two o'clock an alarm ol fire direct
ed attention to the laundry of Ross
Irwin, in the gulch, east of town. The
building is frame, and was very dry,
and the fire spread rapidly. When the
city's fire fighters got in action tht
laundry was too far gone to make it
worth an effort and the water was di
rected on the ice house of F. H. Hutch
ings, which was within a few feet of
the laundry, and also a frame building.
The main part of the ice house was de
stroyed but a long shed, full of hay was
saved intact. A short rime ago R. E.
Simons stored twelve tons of timothy
hay in the shed. This was not injured
either by fire or water.
The loss on the laundry, building
and machinery, is estimated at $7,000,
with $3,700 insurance. The loss on
the ice house is put at $2,700, with
$1,500 insurance. Both the laundry
and ice house will be rebuilt at once.
The origin of the fire is unknown
but believed to have originated in the
boiler and engine room. Mr. Irwin
says he will make arrangements to take
care of his laundry customers. The
weeks laundry, collected Monday and
Tuesday, is quite large and is, of course,
a total loss to the customers.
Three Mining Yarns
Mr. P. J. Lonergan, a mining man
who makes Butte, Mont., his home,
arrived here Tuesday morning. Mr.
Lonergan has spent considerable time
here the past summer and became in
terested in some mining property on
the upper Chewawa river to which he
has devoted more or less attention.
Like all or most mining men he is
secretive and mysterious, and will not
give out information as to his purposes
and intentions. However, unless he
considered the outlook promising he
would long ago have ceased to devote
attention to it. His repeated visits to
the property indicate interest, which is
about all that can be said at this time.
Al Van Epps, the oldest prospector
and mining man in these parts armed
Tuesday afternoon from Seattle. He
is on his way to his property on the ,
head of Jack creek a fork of the Icicle
river. He says he has a gang of mcD j
at work on his property and still asserts
that the road up the Icicle river will be
built, and that work may yet begin this
fall and winter.
Red Mountain Ole, anoi.hefcowi.er oi
; a hole in the ground in the region
about Buck creek, which is at the head
of the Chewawa river country, was here
this week. The only thing between
Ole and a million dollars is the man to
put up the money. He has the hole
in the ground, which is about all one
of thase old prospectors needs to make
him feel rich.
K.V.B. HARDWARE CO.
IS SPREADING OUT
Will Carry full Stock of Furniture in the
Future—Also Added a Plumbing
Department
With this end in view the company
the past week had a balcony put in
30x40 across the rear end of their store
room with an eight foot extension along
the sides to within fifteen feet of the
front. This gives them about one
thousand foot of additional floor space
which will be used to store and display
furniture, of which they have already
received a considerable stock and have
more on the way. It is the purpose of
the K. V. B. company to keep every
thing that may be desired in the way
of house furnishing by the Deople who
come 10 Leavenworth to do their shop
ping, from a moderately priced quality
to the better grades of household goods.
Mr. KrollpfeiSer, the general manager,
says his company was forced into this
new departure because this line has in
the past been neglected in Leaven
worth. Whether this firm is progress
ive politically the deponent here sayeth
not, but as to its progressiveness com
mercially, that is an open secret.
For much the same reason the furni
ture line has been added the plumbing
shop was also added. This line is on
der the direction of Geo. A. Hauber,
an old time and experienced plumber,
who has for years been engaged in the
apple growing business in the We
natchee valley. When he quit plumb
ing he thought he had quit for good.
Tickling the earth with a hoe, he
thought, was just what he wanted to do
all the balance of bis life. But like so
many more who forsake a lifelong oc
cupation for something which looks
easier, he had another thought coming,
and from now on he can be found at
the plumbing department of the K. V.
B. Hardware Co.
Preaching and Practice
In his speech at Detroit, as in his
Indianapolis speech of 1915, Mr. Wil
son emphasized his belief that the
Mexicans have a right to set up such
government as they choose and to
maintain it in any way they choose.
He also made it clear on both occa
sions —so far as words can make any
thing clear —that he has no purpose to
interfere with the Mexicans in their ex
ercise of this right.
Yet the President's practice does not
correspond with his preaching. His
interference in Mexico has been con
stant and confusing and in form en*
tirely without warrant. Had he exert
ed an armed intervention such as usaee
sanctions and such as events have fully
justified this country in employing, he
could have done no more by way of
interference in the internal affairs of
Mexico than he has by his unreasoned
opposition to Huerta, his alterations of
favor among the rival bandit kings who
have aspired to Mexican authority, and
his use of American troops for a purpose
which has never been made clear.
It point of fact, the government of
Mexico today, so far as it exists, is not
a government set up by Mexicans or a
government constituted by any author
ity known to the Mexican code of laws.
It is a "de facto" government recog
nized by Wnodrow Wilson; and to that
recognition alone it owes whatever
standing it possesses. While preach
ing the doctrine of "hands off" from
i the platform at Indianapolis and at De-
I troit, the President from the White
i House and from the state and war de
! departments ha? practiced a continual
I policy of interference with Mexican
: affairs.
* Temporary taurtllry*Office*
I have temporarily established a laun
dry office in the old Echo building on
Commercial street where I will receive
laundry bundles. Daily service with
Wenatchee Steam Laundry.
43* Ross Irwin.
|
Echo want ads [bring quick resulti.
Our Job Printing
depa*-*- tis eom
'ou want
<♦•** printing
at reasonable pnce«.
come to this orricc.
$1.50 Per Year
Death After Long Illness
Advice was received here last Satur
day that Mr. Percy Adams died at his
home, Tolt, Wash., last Saturday and
was buried Monday. Rev. Davis, for
mer pastor of the Coneregational
church in Leavenworth, conducted
the funeral services. His wife, daugh
ter of Mrs. D. C. Town, was with him
when death relieved him of his long
suffering. Mr. Adams was married to
Mrs. Mary Mills of this place in 1910.
He was for many years mail clerk on
the Great Northern between Seattle
and Spokane. In 1908 he was in a
wreck and was quite severely injured.
From the shock of the accident he
never fully recovered. For the past
year he was almost constantly confined
to his bed, and for the past few months
death has been expected every week.
GREAT NORTHERN ENGINEERS
ENTERTAIN AT BIG BANQUET
Lady Guests Measure Snow Sheds for
Prize—Go to Movies in the
Evening
The Great Northern civil engineers
connected with the snow shed work up
the canyon decided to "square" some
of their social obligations by entertain
ing a lot of friends at a banquet, and
the function was pulled off last Sunday
afternoon at the engineers' camp, about
three miles up the canyon. By way of
diversion a contest was gotten up for
the ladies present. By twos they were
to take measurments of one of the
snow sheds under construction. The
first prize was won by Mrs. Carter and
Miss Gage. Second by Miss McLain
and Miss Castleberry.
There were place cards for thirty
guests at the banquet tables, and the
following menu was served:
Proftle or Fill at Line i banco
18. P. 1677.S
Triangulation of Oyster Island
Cemented Conglomerate of Fruit
Chicken a la Hades, Deep Sea Dressing
Micks Crushed to a Pulp
African Tubers a la Equator
Staff of Life a la Italian
Beans ala Picket Sliced Pain Raisers
Pilgrims' Delight —Some Days
Cockney Holiday Pride
Grief Dispensers —
a la Japan a la Brazil
Tin Bossy Switzer
Following is the list of ladies present:
Mrs. J. B. Adams, Mrs. Morgan, Mrs.
Mullen, Mrs. Wright, Mrs. Carter,
Mrs. Legros and Miss Adams, Miss
McLain, Miss Castleberry, Miss Beard
sley, Miss Ball, Miss Anderson and
Miss Gage.
After the banquet the entire party
came to town and in the evening at
tended the Scenic theater.
Democrats Raised Sectionalism
Issue
President Wilson is certainly right
when he says that "any man who revives
the issue of sectionalism in this country
is unworthy of the confidence of the
nation." But it should be kept in
mind that such an issue has already
been raised, not by words but by deeds.
That issue was raised when the demo
cratic party, under the leadership of
Woodrow Wilson, organized the com
mittees of congress with the Southern
states in control, adopted a caucus
system which enables the member;
from that section to dictate legislative
policies, enacted tariff legislation the
only pronounced protective features cf
which were to the advantage of tha
same section, and enacted other rev
enue legislation which imposed an un
due proportion cf tax burden upon the
North. It is absolutely true that the
man and the party that has revived the
sectionalism issue are unworthy of the
confidence of the nation. That such
confidence £a,s J>f,en, fortejteji, .will,be .
demonstrated at the polls in November,
Mrs. A. B. Wescott, who was taken
seriously ill with pneumonia about two
weeks ago, in Seattle, is getting along
nicely and will soon be up and about.
Twisp, Okanogan county, reports
the investment of considerable eastern
money in that valley.
