r. 1 SOUTH BUSINESS
VOL XXXIII NO 29
WAUSEON, OHIO, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1916
1.50 PER YEAR
coumtv
TRIBUNE.
WILLIS
The Governor Met By Large Crowd at Court House in
Wauseon Wednesday Morning Thrilling Address
on National and State Issues Losure Post G. A.
R. Receiye The Governor's Tribute of
Appreciation and Respect
V
IN spite of the early hour
and the threatening wea
ther Governor Frank B- Wil
lia was met by a crowded
house last Wednesday morn
ing and there were represen
tatives from every, precinct
in the , county gathered at
the court house" half an hour
before ' the arrival of the
' Governor's party. Members
; of the Republican Executive
Committee had expected the
Governor to coma to Wau
seon Tuesday night alter his
address at Napoleon and be
here in the morning ready to
speak promptly at i:30. Act
ing on this plan the Com-
' rades of Losure Post G. A.
R. gathered in their hall at 9:00 o'clock to act as an escort for the Governor
from the hotel to the court house; for some reason the plan did not work out
and the Governor and his party did not arrive in Wauseon until about 9:45
but the old soldiers and the band were on hand at the court house and acted
as a reception committee to the evident pleasure of the Governor.
Hon- F, II. Reighard acted as chairman of the meeting and introduced Mr.
Willis as the Governor who has cut off useless oil ices, reduced the running
expenses of the State government, increased its efficiency and restored the
franchise thalj had been taken away from the people in the matter of the
election of assessors.- 1
Mr. Willis began his address by reference to the old soldiers whom he
thanked for the splendid reception accorded him and stated that of all the
receptions accorded him at the many places in Ohio which he has visited dur
ing this campaign this reception at Wauseon by the veteran soldiers is the
most acceptable. ' - ' . , .
He stated that the last General Assembly of Ohio, exceeded all previous
Assemblies in the enactment of legislation on subjects of interest to veter
an soldiers. Twenty such enactments were passed by this Assembly among
them being an appropriation of $15,000, for the purpose of bringing the old
Ohio battle flags from attics and cellars and placing them in suitable bronze
ctid glass cases in the rotunda of the capitol building.
' Mr. Willis paid a high tribute to the services of Mr- Reighard as a mem
ber of the last General Assembly and as Chairman of the Finance Com
mittee stating that he was an honor to the Assembly and the State..
He expressed his resentment to the speech of Secretary of War Newton
Baker in which Mr. Baker likened the soldiers of Washington's army to the
bandit and outlaws who have1 followed Villa, and other Mexican revolution
ary leaders. The Mexican situation was discussed and in this connection the
speaker announced the fact that Secretary Baker has recently assented to
the opinion and ruling of Judge Advocate Crowder of the United States Army,
to the effect that a state of war exists between the United States and Mexico;
thus contradicting the famous campaign slogan of the Democrats, "He kept
Uf Out of War." Mr. Willis stated that more American soldiers had lost
their lives during the Mexican troubles than were killed at the famous battle
of Santiago in the Spanish-American 'War- In ret'ering to the influence of
the Underwood Tariff upori the Commercial, industrial and social conditions
of this country Mr. Willis called attention to the fact, which was corroborat
ed by Mr. Reighard that, the first appropriation made under his administra
tion was for $5000, to establish employment bureaus over the State. At
that time 10,000 men were out of employment in Columbus alone while in New
York 300,000 were out of work; the outbreak of the European War and the
consequent "War Orders" relieved the situation, but the present prosperity
cannot last after the close of this war. .Art" analysis of the export trade shows
' conclusively that the so called "War Orders" cannot continue to give em
ployment to American industry when there is no war; in 1914 Aeroplanes to
the value of $198,000, were manufactured in America for foreign shipment
in 1916 16,700,000 worth of Aeroplanes were shipped from this country to
the nations entraeed in war. Barbed wire shipments rose from three millions
in 1914 to nine millions in 1916. Harness and sadlery from $7D0,000 to $5,200,- I
1M0. Explosives from five million to four hundred and fifteen million. All
these are things that will not be used when the war closesand yet Mr
Underwood said in a recent speech that the war orders were a negligible item
in the present prosperity.
, Governor Willis answered ex-governor Cox campaign assertion and criti
cisms in detail; taking up first Mr. Cox's statement that there were no scan
dals or outrages on the public conscience during his administration. Mr.
Willis pointed out the banking department episodes the cases of State of
ficials who were drawing double and treble salaries and the theft of referen
dum petitions. Answering the criticism of Mr. Cox on his administration Mr
Willis pointed out the facts that under the present administration the cost
of liquidation of banks had been reduced from $33,000 in 1913 and 994,000 to
$5,000 per bank. He pointed out the reduction in the expenses of the high
way department by $60,000 and from three to four times more miles of road
actually constructed than under the Cox administration. Answering the criti
cism that his administration had spent more money for educational purposes
than his predecessor, Mr. Willis pointed out the fact that his administration
bad simply been carrying out the provisions of laws placed on the statute
books by his predecessor.
The crowd that packed the court room to overflowing frequently interrupt
ed the speaker with applause and Governor Willis arroused the enthusiasm
and patriotism of the citizens of the county to such a pitch that the' tide of
sentiment will roll up the largest Republican majority in the history of the
county- The Wauseon meeting closed with three cheers lor Hughs, Willis and
Herrick and the Governor and his party which included Hon. N. E. Matthews
Republican candidate for Congress from this district left in the waiting
auto for Montpelier where the Governor was scheduled for an address.
The day's schedule included Bryan, Paulding and Van Wert.
ART LOAN AT LIBRARY
The Wauseon Public Library has
received as a loan from the Cincin
nati Museum Association twelve re
productions in sepia of the portraits
by Hans Holbein of illustrious per
sonages of the Court of King Henry
VIII of England. The portraits will
be on free exhibition in the public
library assembly room for two weeks,
and possibly longer, and the people
of Wauseon and vicinity are urged' to
take advantage of the opportunity of
seeing these reproductions of famous
portraits most of which have never
before been exhibited here.
The loan is made possible by the
co-operation of the Ohio Library As
sociation and the large museums of
the state. The plan is to have the
libraries co-operate, the pictures be
ing available for little more than the
cost of transportation. The plan was
completed and announced only this
month at the State library meeting
at Cincinnati, so that Wauseon is one
of the first places to have such an ex
hibit. It is hoped that before the
winter is over other collections may
be shown.
The originals of the drawings by
Holbein from one of the treasured
collections of the Royal Library at
Windsor Castle. They were made be
tween the years 1526 and 1543.
The portraits shown at Wauseon
are:
King Edward VI (as a boy.)
Queen Jane Seymour.
Sir Thomas Wiat.
Nicholas Bourbon?
Unknown Courtier.
Marchioness of Dorset.
Lady Parker.
, John Colet, dean of St. Paul's.
Cathedral (?).
John Reskimer.
Lady Lister. ,
Sir Henry Guilford.
Lady Mary, after Queen."
F
Light of Actual Facts Thrown Upon
Mr. Cox Statement That The First
Act of Governor Willis Administra
tion Was To Stop Preparations For
. Prison Farm.
Speech on Adamson Law and How
"He Kept Us Out of War" Can
Congress Fix Wages and Compel
Men to Work for Same? What
Will Wilson Do?
According to press reports, Mr. Cox
in his speech in Cincinnati, October
18th, among other things said, His
(Governor Willis) first act was to
stop preparations for the big new
prison farm at London, where it
was planned to get a large number of
prisoners employed out of doors in
helpful, healthful and productive em
ployment." "The Willis Legislature gave only
$1,500. to keep that work under way,
enough only to build a fence and a
silo. That was all."
When former Governor Cox made
that statement, if he made it, he
either wilfully lied or was grossly
ignorant. It he had looked on pages
671, 673 and 754, Vol. 106, O. S. L., he
could have seen that the legislature
(Cintinuei on page 12)
Whether the Adamson law will
stand the test of constitutionality was
the question raised by Senator War
ren G. Harding in an address at East
Liverpool, October 24th. The Senator
declared he believed in the eight
hour day principle wherever possible,
and asserted he believed it. could be
and ought to be worked out for rail
road service. He also said he belong
ed to the political party which had
written the eight-hour day law for
government employees.
Congress had the right to do that
because it was paying out government
money to the government's own em
ployees, he said- But fixing wages
between corporation or private em
ployer and employe is quite another
matter, and he does not believe it
will stand the constitutional test. If
it does, it is the very thing the Ameri
can wage earner does not want, be
cause if congress can fix wages, which
is all the Adamson law does, naming
eight hours as the basis of pay, then
it follows - that congress can compel
men to work at the wages it fixes, else
the law is futile. If it can raise wages
it can lower them, though I frankly
state that it never will while popular
elections endure. But here's the point
if congress can fix wages and require
men to work at the wages fixed, which
is the inevitable result, then labor has
lost its inspiration to unionize and act
in unison, it has been denied the right
to contract, the right to strike is for
ever surrendered, and we "have estab
lished industrial slavery or endless
confusion in the scramble for legisla
tive favoritism. It is well to ponder
the impending danger, and vastly,
more urgent to make sure of the
abundance of employment and- condi
tions of peace, under Republican poli
cies, than run to dangerous experi
ment amid the fevered activities which
come of European war.
The Democratic plea that President
Wilson has kept us out of war is offi
cially disposed of by the recent deci
sion of the .Judge Advocate General
of the army, who has rendered the de
cision that we are legally - and ac
tually at war with Mexico. This de
cision has the sanction of Secretary
of War Baker- I might incline to
doubt the legality of it, but all of us
Republicans have been confirming the
actuality. We had to be at war offi
cially, also our American soldiers in
Mexico could be held for murder for
every death they have caused. And
we have killed more Mexicans and
lost more American lives than we kill
ed Spaniards and lost American lives
during the Spanish-American War.
For campaign purposes it is "peace";
but for official records and the recitals
of history we are at war. And so we
are, indeed, in a shameful, inexcus
able, unnecessary and unauthorized
war. Congress is the only body with
authority to declare war, and con
gress, as a body, never thought of an
armed conflict with ' Mexico or any
other . nation. Congress did ask,
again and again, for official informal
tion regarding our Mexican relations,
and was ever met with the same reply
that the submission of reports would
be hurtful to public policy- The
story of honorable dealing ought not
be so dangerous for the public to
know. -
The whole pitiable and disgraceful
story of indefensible meddling and
vacillation and humiliation, mixed
with war, is a state secret except as
the press "has revealed it from sham-,
bles-ground and battlefield, and is so
fraught with discredit that any Re
publican -would rather forget it for
his country's sake than recite it on a
campaign. - But, the sensational para
mounting that "he has kept us out
of war" entitles the people to the
truth, even though it humiliates, while
a fit regard for American rights and
love for American honor, and devoting
to American fairness demand firm
voice in behalf of the triie American
spirit.
It is an affront to American intelli
gence to say that" Governor Hughes
or the Republican- party stands for
war When adherents of the , President
ask what Hughes means .to do, they
might fittingly tell us what ; Wilson
intends doing after November 7. We
know of the failures thus far, but
only can' wonder what fiascoes' are
awaiting. The army is in Mexico,
hobbled, and the guard is on the bor-j
der, and the outlay is cpsting millions
and nobody knows" a . policy which is
to ioilow elections. . -
SERVICE AND RELIGION '
"You can serve-your country with
out sacrificing your faith!" dramati
cally exclaimed Private James Goudy,
U- S. Marine Gorps, while addressing
some youthful-Mennomtesol Lancas
ter whose religious principles were
strictly against the military life.
"For the battle is;; the Lordr's " (1.
Samuel, 17.. 47.,) and other apt quo
tations from the story of -David and
Goliah, so impressed his hearers that
they organized a drill company on
the spot under the direction of their
patriotic leader. . . -
Private Goudy expects eventually
to rally many of his husky pupils to
the ranks of the "soldiers of the sea,"
a fighting force of which- he is an
earnest and enthusiastic member-
AUTD BAHDITS
Pulled Off Brazen Robbery at Liberty
Center Last Friday Night Got
About $1000 Worth of Merchandise
No Clue.
INSTANTLY KILLED
John Fox, 87 years of age, was in
stantly killed when struck by a west
bound fast freight while crossing the
B. & O. tracks in Holgate last Satur
day morning. He was dragged by
the oil boxes for three car lengths.
Practically every bone in his body
was broken. He is survived by four
children, - Harry, the station agent in
Holgate, J- W., the agent in Hamler,
a daughter in Marion, Indiana, and
another daughter in Wheeling,. W. Vir
ginia. - - -
SPECIAL MEETING.
There will be a special "meeting of
Wauseon Chapter 111 R. A. M. on
Tuesday evening October 31st. The
P- M. and M. E. M. degrees will be
conferred. ' '
Auto bandits visited Liberty Cen
ter last Friday "night, broke into A.
Z. Bryan's hardware and A. G. West's
clothing stores and made a getaway
with about $1,100 worth of plunder-
They first entered the Bryan store
by unlocking the front door with a
skeleton key. A Remington repeat
er hammeriess - shot gun,, about' $15
worth of pocket knives, some alumin
um ware and $8.39 in cash were taken.
The men then went to the clothing
store where they ettected an entrance
by prying open the back door with an
iron oar. Here they secured more
tnan $l,u00 Worth of clothing, some
gent's furnishing goods and five pairs
ox shoes. Among the goods taken
were Z0 Style-Plus $17 suits, 20 Prac
tical $12 to $20 suits, 20 blue and gray
$15 suits, t overcoats and 7 rain Coats,
it is believed that five men took part
in the burglary and the shoes were
worn away, as the" empty cartons were
left behind- A trailer was probably
used to cart away the loot.' Some
neckties found north of town is regard
ed as an indication that the plunder
was taken to Toledo or Detroit.
The discovery was made by Mr.
West's son when he came down to
open the store on Saturday morning
and found the front door shade pull
ed down and a light burning.
The officials were notified and depu
ty sheriff P. H. Reichert spent the
entire, morning but was unable to
find any clue Napoleon Northwest.
H. AND F. MEETING.
Fulton County Horticultural and
Florieultural Societies, will meet with
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Raker, Saturday
November 4.
The change in date is made to ac
comodate Mr. and Mrs. Raker.
Literary program I
"Intensive or Extensive Farming
for Profit?" .
Thanksgiving and Why we are
Thankful.
Short talks and History. Mrs. Peter
Dinius.
Recitations on same. 1
Election of officers.
IRMA SHARP, President
MAIL CLERK KILLED
Sunday morning early, as New
York Central last tram No. 9 was
proceeding westward at 60 miles
an hour, east of Toledo, a mail clerk
in kicking a mail pouch from the door
of his car, lost his balance and fell
from the train. He was not missed
until the train had gone several miles.
It was then backed along the line un
til , the clerk was found . lying beside
the tracks. He was picked up very
badly injured and died soon after be
ing taken to a hospital. His name was
John J- Parker and his home was at
South Bend where the body was taken.
DRIVES 800 MILES TA 84
One of the most remarkable touring
trips ever made was recently com
pleted by Mr. and Mrs. Allen B. Jones,
of Flint, Michigan. Not from a stand
point of speed, distance covered, was
this trip so remarkable, but from the
fact that Mr. Jones, who is in bis
84th year, drove the entire distance
of more than 800 miles and the only
other occupant of the car was Mrs.
Jones, who is 62 years old. The trip
was made in a Chandler six touring
car, purchased last June. The trip
included a visit to Alabama Center,
N. Y., the boyhood home of Mr. Jones.
"I didn't have a .minute's trouble
with my car," states Mr. Jones. "I
got an average of 15 miles to the gal-
on of gas and added only about two
quarts of oil during the entire trip.
We didn't travel very fast, the most
we made in any one day being 102
miles. We traveled through Canada
on the trip going and stopped at
Niagara Falls for two; days. Then
we went to Buffalo and down to
Chautauqua county, where we spent
five days and made several side trips.
Then we went back to Buffalo and on
to Alabama Center, where I lived 62
years ago. In those days I used to
travel about the country mostly on
horseback, there being few buggies
We traveled back by way of Batavia,
Oakfield, Byron and Akron, -.where I
visited many of the scenes I had
known in my younger days. I found
only two men who were living in
that vicinity when I lived there. On
the return trip we came to Buffalo and
back to Detroit on the boat.
"My machine has gone about 2000
miles since I got it in June. There is
nothing I like better than riding
through the country in an auto, and I
know it does me a lot of good. I
want a car that I can put in the barn
when I get through driving and not
look at it again until I want to take
another ride. The Chandler has proven
that kind of a .car.
VETERINAHIES-SlEET
ELECTION BOARDS'
Judges And Clerks Who Will Offi
ciate In The Voting Places of the
County on Tuesday November 7th.
and Count The Ballots-
Northwestern Ohio Veterinary Medi
cal Association Organized in Wau
seon In 1907 After Nine Years
Meet Again in Town Where Or
ganized A Fine Program.
rjft..,
USE McCALL'S DRESS PATTERNS C
Exploitation of Our Fall Festival Still in The Morning of Its Possibilities
Representing as it does Ladies', Misses and Children's Authoritative Apparel and
No Less Timely Accessories
LOOKING FORWARD TO YOUR HOLIDAY NEEDS Our Displays Show Abundant Preparation.
It is really necessary that you make early requisition of some of your Holiday Needs.
GROUCH
when
J
l t.-y
Jim
SCHINDLER-M ALONE
Announcements . have been received
here of the marriage of Helen Agnes
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Charles
Schindler, of Toledo, to Mr. Robert
J- Maione, also of Toledo, which took
plac at H:'M on the morning of Oc
tobr ilat aCSt. J'atrick's church. .'.
The bridegroom's brother. Dr. Ma
ione, celebrated nupital high mass,
assisted by Monsignor J. T. O'Connell
and Rev, McCloskey- Ascension lillies
and palms were massed on the altar.
Fredrick Seymour sang several selec
tions preceding the ceremony.
,Mi Cecile Schindler, as her sister's
honor maid, wore a gown of blue vel
vet with hat to match and carried an
armful. of American Beauty roses.
. Sh preceded tha bride, who entered
with her father. The bridal costume
was fashioned of Burgundy velvet,
with hat of silver and bouquet of
roses and lilies of the valley.
Francis Connolly served as best
man- Messrs. Charles McCable of
Chicago and Robert Schindler, broth
er of the bride, were ushers.
Mrs. Schindler wore for the occa
sion a costume of grape colored vel
vet and Mrs. Maione, the bride
groom's mother, was attinM in brown
broadcloth.
Fifty guests were seated for the
wedding breakfast served at the
Woman's Building, following the cere
mony. Pink roses were efTectviely
arranged on the tables.
' Mr- and Mrs. Maione will take an
eastern wedding trip. The bride's
going away costume is ot cnartreuse
velour and Veal and small black hat.
After December 15th they will.be at
, home at 854 Virginia street.
Tha nut-of-tnwn irueat.it were Mrs.
'Mary Domitio, of Wauseon; Mr. and For an. old he-grouch
Jin. Charles McCaba, Charles Mc- When y' look at him with not a
Ever meet a grouch,
When his grouch was ripe
Just nice and ready- to take a swipe
At any one or any thing!
Ever meet a grouch .
Real genuine grouch I say,
And you right there in the way
So the blame thing hit YOU?
Gee, Whizl and "Oouchl"
Dont feel good in such a mess;
Lots of things pleasanter I guess,
Even down in Mexico,
Ever HAVE a grouch,
Of your very own y' know
Nice and ripe and ready throw
Into you don't give a darn who 7
Well, fellow, say
I know how it leels
YOURE the goat
Why not take a working note
On how to neutralize the thing ?
i
Now the Festive Grouch
When analyzed, you'll find
May be caused by your liver or
your mind
Though its just the same either way,.
When you feel it comin on
If you'l just look wise like an owl
Drop the "ouch" add the bird and
growl;
Why you'll nip it in the bud.
But what is better still,
If you'll say, "the joke's on me,
I'm In"
I'll eliminate the "ouch" and
grin
Say pard, you've got the thing knock
ed out
ab, Jr, Miss Elizabeth McGillen,
and John McGillen, all of Chicago,
and Mr. Robert Schindler, of Youngs
town, Ohio. . , , -
a word to say
Or grin as tho he'd come over just to
play
Just naturally fades right away
Ladies' and Misses
Suits
$15.00 to $28.50
It ll
wpsm
&7
Ladies' and Misses'
Coats
$10.00 to $40.00
Children's
Coats
' $2.00 to $io;oo
In these respective departments are displayed very goodly assortment 6f this season's most favored modes. For they
do present Fashion minus Extravagance that is to say, "Quality plus Style at Prices that are both deserving and economical "
i '
Since it is bothEconomlcai and Smart to get the maximum wear, comfort and satisfaction out of every single article
of our apparel.
Ladies Fashionable
Fall Millinery
Our Ideal Millinery
Department thus affords all of the re
quirements necessary for you to
nake yourevery hat desire particular
ly easy. With unprecedent designing
at prices you will be pleased to pay.
You will do well to visit this Department.
Ladies' and Misses'
Separate Skirts7 :
For Immediate Fall
The use of .the 'separate skirt is
quite as extensive at this time as in
the preceding season. Our line based
as it is on Efficiency and Service pre
sents principally the staple side of the -issue.
Colors in Plain, Black, Blue,
or Green ; a few fancy stripes.
$3,00 to $10.00
Splendid Line of
Knit Goods
Ladies', Misses' and
Children's Wear
Sweaters of many Qualities in all
sizes, these are indispensable utili
ties for cold and blustering weather.
Knit Scarf and Cap Sets will be
very popular and effective accessories,
in fact they will be the reigning vogue
this season.
See our Big and Attractive lines.
" $1.25 to $2.50 per set.
Our Standard, "Quality" ;
The Spencer-E-dgar-VdTrhter Company
Wauseon's Exclusive Dry Goods Store -
Through the efforts of the local
veterinarians Dr. A. J. Kline and Dr.
W. R Clark the Northwestern Ohio
Veterinary Medical Association which
held its Semi-annual Meeting. here on
weanesday, was organized m Wau
seon on July 31st, ly07, with Dr. W.
R. Clark, president and Dr. A. J.
Kline, secretary. The Association at
first covered the three county's of
Fulton, Henry and Williams, now the
territory covered by the organization
includes all of the Northwestern quar
ter of the State. At the first meet
ing, nine years ago there were seven
members; the total membership at
present is over one hundred and it
is estimated that- about half of the
total membership were here for the
meeting Wednesday. This is the first
time since its organization that, the
association has met in Wauseon;' the
annual meeting is always held in To
ledo while the other meetings are
held in the smaller towns of the dis
trict. It seems to be the consensus
of opinion among the members, most
of whom are also members of the
State Association, that these meet
ings of the smaller organization are
of more" practical value than the
meetings of the State organization
which are more formal and technical
and do not seem to engender free
general discussion of the every-day
problems ot the profession. '
The program lor the Wauseon
meeting was from a professional point
of view exceptionally good including
four men who are acknowledged lead
ers and experts with national repu
tations: Dr. Jfl. h. Quitman of Chi
cago who gave a paper on "Therapeu
tics" is the dean of the Chicago Vet
erinary College. Dr. D. M. Campbell
also from Chicago is the editor of
the American Journal of Veterinary
Medicine. Dr. W. A. Axby of Har
rison, Ohio, is an expert in veterinary
surgery and was formerly connected
with the Veterinary College at Cin
cinnati. Dr. A. S. Cooley, who is
a member of this association is the
State Veterinarian and a man who
stands high in professional circles. '
The meeting was not called to or
der in the Knights of Pythias Hall
until after Governor Willis address
was concluded; the routine business
was disposed of and the president,
Dr. E. V. Hoover of Convoy, Ohio,
opened the program by remarks. Dr.
P. T Carpenter of Metamora, gave a
paper on the "Hemorrhagic septicem
ia Outbreak in Fulton county" which
was discussed by Dr. J. Lenfesty of
Lyons. "Bovine Tuberculosis and its
relation to Human Tuberculosis" was
the subject of a paper by Dr. H. D.
Campbell of Forest. Dr. F. E. Cas
well of Blissfield, Michigan, gave a
"Tetanus Case Report" and recess
was taken for luncheon.
At 1 o'clock the Association was
again called to order and listened to
an address of welcome i from Hon.
Frank H. Reighard to which Dr. G. N.
Cliff of Upper Sandusky gave the
response. Then followed the ioiiow
ing program:
"Deferential Diagnosis," Dr. n.
Conn, Fremont, Ohio.
"Therapeutics," Dr. E. L. Quitman,
Chicago, Illinois.
"Experiences of a Practitioner in
the Northwest" Dr. Kenney, Bryan,
Ohio.
"Veterinarian Problems of Today,"
Dr. W A. Axby, Harrison, Ohio.
"Selection," Dr. D. M. Campbell,
Chicago, Illinois.
"Department Achievement," Dr. A.
S. Cooley, Columbus, Ohio.
"Some Difficulties Encountered in
the Serum Simultaneous Treatment
of Hog Cholera," E. D. Ensign, Bryan,
Ohio.
Report of Board of Censors.
At 5:30 a three course banquet was
served by the ladies of Wauseon Tem
ple Pythian Sisters which maintain
ed the high standard of service for
which these ladies have gained a re
putation. The banquet was followed
by a "Dinner Session" at which Dr.
J. V. Newton of Toledo acted as
toastmaster. Dr. A. J. Kline spoke of
"The Past," referring to the origin of
the Association, its development and
growth. Dr. F. F. Sheets of, Van
Wert spoke of "The Future" and Dr.
G. N. Cook of Fayette responded to
the toast on "Competition." Other
toasts followed and one cf the best
and most valuable meetings of the
Association came to a close.
Amboy Burton Wilson, P. J.; Clar
ence Cash, John Mossing, Lewis Ries;
Clerks A. C. Wright, Arthur Mohr.
Metamora Edgar Franklin, P. J.;
Charles Gestwite, J. T. Schafer, J. C.
Smith; Clerks Claire C. Gormley, V.
M. Berry.
Chesterfield-r-Edwin Russell, P. J.;
M. C. Jones, George Clark, Clyde
Smith; Clerks H. Partridge, John Leg-
geu.
Clinton Freeman Gorsuch. P. J.i
Curtis Fauver, Daniel , Clingaman,
James Drennan; Clerks Henry Mur- v
phy, Frank Biddle.
Wauseon East L. H. Guilford. P.
J.; Q. C. Poorman. W. W. Winzeler.
Edward Cook; Clerks W. J. Weir.
Otto Hampshire. - . .
Wauseon West Georze Clifton. P.
Chas. H. Jordan, W. D. Hoag, Clar
ence Lingle; Clerks George Gorsuch.
Walter Gotf. - .
Wauseon South Clyde Wager, P.
J.; Wyatt Sullinger, E. M. Leader,
Chas. Bruning; Clerks Arthur Strat
ton, Jocelyn Upp. - ,
Dover Walter Spirng, P. J,; ,
Haulsey Robinson, B. F. Croninger, F.
H. Rosebrook; Clerks .Jerome Bailey,
F. E. Shadle.
Franklin Ote Seible, P. J.; Zale
Borton, George Gunn, Henry Viers;
Clerks D. W. White, Warren M,
Steward '
Fulton K. K. Watkins, P. J.; Jas.
Vanhorn, James Smith, H. J. Dowl- '
ing; Clerks L L. Richards, Oliver
Hable. . ....
Swanton No. 1 J. A. Weir, P. J.;
Frank Berkebile, James White, L. L.
Pilliod; Clerks C. O.. Manley, C. G.
German Dale Shafer, P. J.; J. C.
ieesey, sl.ii. a. jueininger, . aam U.
Nofzinger; Clerks B. M. Borton,
Adolph Hinderer. i
Archbold Frank Lovejoy,v P. J.;
Fred WesteL H. G. Britsch, A. M.
Buhrer; Clerks Eddie Lauber, Peter
C. Short.
Swan Creek Easl: E. E. Wilmvr. P
J.; A. H. Mattin, Wm. Pfaff, Wm.
Shelt; Clerks W. G. Milrcy. Chas.
Wagoner. .. -
Swan Creek West Art Gill, P. 1;
John Chamberlain. G. B. Atkinson.
Wm. Schroub; Clerks O. C. Scribner.
itiari siagie.
Swanton No. 2 Lloyd Ramsower.
P. J.; C. E. Bundley, Dan Sloan. Peter ,
Robinson- Clerks L. G.- Curtis, Ray
mond Pilliod. s
York North Sam -Berkebile, P. J.;
Rollo Miller, Hugh Lilley, Ed. Durbin,
Clerks L. E. Lytton, W. P. Stiriz.
York South Homer Leist P. J.;
Wm. F. Firstenberger." Stillman Bid-
die, Wm. Schelmeyer; Clerks M. G.
Aumend, Arthur Spiess.
Gorham A. L. Ford, P. J.; Glen
Page, Frank J. Conkle, R. P. Ritter;
Clerks Roscoe Griffin. Davton Wool-
ace.
- Fayette Herbert Partridge, P. J.;
Sheriff; Clerks Ralph Russell, C. -J.
Held.
Pike W. B. Dennis, P. J.j Robert
D. Miller, Edward Marlatt, Chas.
Watkins; Clerks -Clarence Fewlas,
Chas. Knapp.
Rovalton Wm. Standish. P. J G.
A. Bogar, H. H. Robinson, E. Si Smith
Clerks Elmer Edgar, Lewis Seward.
Lyons C. B. Slater, P. J.; J. K.
Clendenin, Seth Seward, F. E. Brown;
Clerks S. A. Fleming, Gordon Stong."
Delta North O. J. Dodge, P. J.;
J. B. Fleming, Peter Kenney, George
'Geitgey; Clerks L. B. Casbin, A. L.
Zimmerman.
Delta South H. B. Snyder, P. J.:
G. W. Whitehorn, E. G Rathman, A.
C. Woody; Clerks A. T. McComb,
Chas. I. Fraker.
3 Use Our Beautiful New Dress Materials T
"JUNIOR CHAUTAUQUA"
Wauseon boys and gjrls who belong
to the Junior Redpath Club are to re
ceive another edition of their Chau
tauqua paper Wednesday November
1. In this issue announcement will
be made of the city winning the ban
ner for attendance, and there will be
pictures of the officers of the largest
club.
In the word contest conducted in
connection with the Junior Chautau
qua" there were several boys and
girls who submitted more than 4,000 .
different combinations of letters from
the name "Junior Redpath Club," ubt
the honor of having the largest list
goes to a Club member down in. Sis
tersville,. West Virginia. The Novem
ber' Chautauqua will eontain a pic
ture of this member, with a story of
how she secured so many words.
; Prize winners in the Chautauqua
tent .crew contest also will be an
nounced in the coming paper, and
there is to be an article telling what
the "story girls" are doing this win
ter, v - '
A supply of papers will be sent to
Miss Elvira Taft adult president of
the-local J. R. C. Members and their
boy and girl friends will be accomo
dated while the edition lasts.
Cut This Out It Is Worth Monev.
DON'T MISS THIS. Cut out this
slin. enclose with 5c to. Foley & Co.,
Chicago, TIL, writing your name and
address clearly. You will receive in
return a trial package containing
Folev's Honey and tar Compound, for
coughs, colds and croup, Foley Kid
ney Pills, and Foley Cathartic Tablets.
Fink & Haumesser.
WEATHER FORECAST.
Forecast for the week beginning;
Sunday, October 22, 1916.
Ohio Valley and Tennessee: Dur
ing the coming week the weather will
be generally fair and cool, except that
local rains are probable Wednesday
or Thursday. " , :
Region of the Great Lakes: Cool
and overcast weather will prevail 'dur
ing the greater part of the coming
week. Local rains or snows are pro
bable Sunday or Monday, and dur
ing the latter half of the wees.
NOTICE TO TAXPAYERS.
Before the tax laws were changed
in 1913 the rates were made in June
each year and, the taxes were spread
and could be paid as early as October
1st. Now rates cannot be made un
til Ausrust and it neccessarily delays
the work and the Treasurer cannot
commence to receive taxes before No
vember 1st, at the very earliest. This
is the reason early' inquiries about
taxes cannot be answered.
G. SCOTT ROOS, Treasurer.
NOTICE. -We
wish to extend a hearty invita
tion to every one to attend the Hal
lowe'en entertainment to be given at
Enterprise School, Wednesday even
ing November 1st. Mr. C D. Perry,
the county superintendent will add to
the enjoyment of the evening with
lantern slides. Everyone come. Ad
mission 10 cents.
, CLARA GOTTSCHALK,
- Teacher.
ROLL CALL MEETING
Next Sunday at 3 o'clock the An
nual Roll Call meeting of the Con
gregational Church will take place.
n.very memDer . win respond with a
Scriptural verse. The. Lord's Supper
will be served, A special offering will
be received. --The choir will render,
special music, " .
V.
