jfljjTH YEAR No - 19 -
Senator Poindexter COMING
Speak In Orovllle on .Next
Friday Evening.
M jut Friday evening, November 3,
flwlorMile* Poindexter will address
Jtl dti— 111 ol oroville and vicinity.
■ Smaator la one of the best speakers
frfmip and is making a red hot
llj-plp for Hughes. Mr. Poindexter
B-jrM so boosting for himself. His
M *tica U certain. No democrat ques
■ jg, Ui chances for a moment.
I atrip'to B. C.
■ sr. Frank Calvert, president of the
company made a trip
Igitki Cariboo country in 11. C., for
* purpose of inspecting sonic sodium
■ kvMnte lakes. The trip was quite
■gattaiive one for this time of the
lp,Md was not a pleasure trip by
■u want, on account cold weather.
I At trip waa made in the Huudson
Ifftned by the company and driven
lylKßird M. Wills. The roads were
condition. The worst road
IgMladoatbe whole journey was bet-
Bg Hu our new state road. No trouble
I « nptrienced on the way back un-
Ifmkla about three miles of Oroville
liki the machine went into one of the
■■V chuck holes and broke a spring.
I Hathaway north a stop was made at
IhmaarriTlng in time to see the 173 d
ligtomt entrain for the front. The
Ikm front of the soldier boys and the
Ilf mrprtased grief of the relatives
■imd Si impression on our mind
Itlkkwa will never forget. Probably
Imatf-lTe per cent of those lads will
Imr return, except as cripples and
Ihfriaia wrecks of th«ir former selves.
llk German detention camp was also
| MM.
I Mol the Canadians who could ha
IhM'totnlk in regard to the Amer
lm political situation expressed the
■hn that Wilson would be reelected,
IlMMthey believe that he is helping
lililhya more by keeping the States
lallfdM war than by getting her in
l aMylrmly believe that Hughes will
■ kNMai.
I hi the vacillating Mexican policy
111 Ml Mat Illustrious and valourous
UUkpff trovokea lots of mirth and.
mNWßaals for countless jokes
■M oar good neighbors across the
ha
It canid tell every time we met an
imrlcaa la B. C., just whether he was
ihmerat or a republican, by the way
htalkad politics when he was sound - 1
•d by the Canadians.
iimoerat was very loud and pro
hc ll hla explanations of the policies
dtla present administration, while a
UNkai, ashamed of the poor stand
M week showing the United States
h* ■•da of indlcision where there
toiMhave een decision ; of inaction I
•hr* there should have been action;
M action where here was no cause; I
•(nothing to say; no reasonable ex-
Htmtkn to offer; and changed the
'object.
* »an hates to be kidded, with no I
o®c back, in a strange country.
ONE OP THE TRAVELERS.
PUWGISO FOR OFFICE.
8. W. Banker, of Winthrop, spent
■buflay night In Oroville on an auto
through the northern part of the
'■•ty hi the interests of his caftdi
wy for the legislature. Mr. Banker is
'■slug for that office on the demo
tfafic ticket, and although he was not
® active candidate before the prlina
r**' *••** the nomination was foisted
•Pc* hm, he is now making a thor
canvass for election. If it is in
■** **** that a democrat is to repre
7*t W* county In the legislature at
•**t session we know of no demo
?V*at we would rather see the hon
hui 00 t * lan r ' H an ker. As a po-
opponent, we are pulling for
yet should he succeed,
would have a man in the
M"*ture that the people would need
»kw> B ° rea * on t0 be ashamed of,
/■•would not be the case If the
***x»t running for that office
rJbMbe elected to the senate. We
t* known Mr. Banker for 25 years,
*“° w him to be a man of high
HyP* 6 ' clean In his private life,
far more than ordinary
j*™Vi and his word Is absolutely re-
NM a re are no detects * n **i s per
character, and to know the man
* <• like him.
****** OROVILLE APPLES.
(r Rogers an expert apple pack-
several days In (his locality
I ***•■ and has done some packing
Mehardlsts in this vicinity. Mr.
***• snch a reputation for per
j ** cA l n K that the inspector of the
tehee district never took the
•* to look over his work. The
‘act that Rogers packed them
rotlclent to permit the boxes to
t „. *• It w as a guarantee that the
fr ft *** Properly done. Mr. Rogers
JJrJ Brewster apples that car
l*th« Pr * zes the various fairs, and
of prizes, peaking is con-
red an important factor in making
jjr. Rogers mentioned
Ihi «# * **** Quality of the ap
d, £ Part of the valley under
Okanogan Valley Irrigation
and stated that he had never
"••Whin* better.
_____ - f
Iti ' tt<\ ' \ /~\ ll fl iMppap
/3LJ (hQjjdwT I
LAND OF THE BIG RED APPLE
Kx|»ert Testimony H s to the Quality of
Up to Last Friday A. Lindsey, an ap
ple buyer representing the Earl Fruit
company, of San Francisco, hud pur
chased 980 car sof apples, most of
which were procured in the Okanogan
valley. Mr. Lindsey lias followed apple
buying long enough to distinguish the
superior qualities of that fruit from the
poorer grades, and lias no hesitancy
in stating that tile choicest apples
grown that reach the market are secur
ed form that portion of the Wenatchee
district north from the town of Oka
nogan, He includes the Okanogan val
ley in the district generally known as
Wenatchee, and the conditions in this
valley are very much similar to those
of the Wenatchee valley, only some
what more favorable for the production
of the perfect apple. Mr. Lindsey at
tributes this superiority to the fact that
the orchards up this way are younger
and the soil has not been affected by
years of cropping. He was shown De
licious and Jonathan apples from the
Ellls-Forde orchard tracts which he
declared to be the most highly colored
apples of tfiose varieties that ever came
under his observation, and his obser
vation has embraced a vast amount of
fruit of this character over many dis
tricts.
Testimony of this nature from such
a reliable authority should convince
people that for the growing of com
merclal apples the northern Okanogan
valley, under the West Okanogan Val
ley Irrigation system, is a very para
dise for the fruit grower. It means that
apples grown in this vicinity properly
handled and packed, will always com
mand a fair price and a ready sale.
There is no danger of overdoing the In
dustry In a country so happily blessed
with soil and climate that can Insure
the production of apples in large
quantities and of a quality that cannot
be excelled. The statement made by
Mr. Lindsey came unsolicited. He was
most agreeably surprised when he
came to examine the apples of north
ern Okanogan county while engaged in
buying for the market, and teely stated
lib? opinion an above set forth. Let the
land owner of this locality go on plant
ing the best variety of apples. He need
have no fear that the market will be
overstocked with the fruit this soil and
climate will produce. Apple growing
will be a profitable Industry up this
way when it is abandoned In other
districts.
A FIRE SCABS.
The wall of the (ire alarm siren Sat
urday evening about 5:30 o’clock sum
moned most of the population to Main
street. A heavy volume Of smoke was
rolling up from the'basement in the
rear of the Hold de Grubb, and much
excitement as well as consternation
prevailed from the fear that the hand
some hotel would be greatly damaged
if not destroyed. The fire department
was speedily on the ground and two
leads of hose were laid from the plug
at the corner of Main street and Fiist
avenue, and the chemical hose was
carried into the basement. Hie Cue
proved to he only the burning of rub
bish in the pit in the boiler room, a
room that is absolutely tire proof, and
a stream of water ext inn
blaze in a few seconds. The hotel suf
fered no damage at all. except the
drenching of a few beds in a room in
the basement off the boiler room, the
result of over zeal on the pi' r t of the
firemen. Within five minutes after the
arrival of the department the fire was
out and the crowd scattered. Ihe
waste paper and rubbish in the pit ig
nited from the furnace, and had it
been left to burn out no damage would
have resulted, although the big hotel
would have been pretty thoroughly
smoked up.
LYCEUM ENTERTAINMENT.
The second number of the Midland
Lyceum course is billed at the Orph
eum for tomorrow (Saturday) night,
and the attraction on this wjto b
made up of two charming entertainers
Mrs. Osceola Pooler and Miss Joyce
Dilts, heralded us one of the st.ong
numbers of the Lyceum course The
lowa Falls Sentinel speaking of Mlm
Dilts says that “the P roB ™ n * hrlßtlan
\IISS Joyce Dilts 1,, c
church was very enjoyable. Mw*
is an entertainer of a very h gh. merit
being a pleasing singer, an accomplish
ed reader, and an excellent pianist
The secretary of the Chautauqua
agers Association, Pooler has
of Mrs. Pooler ‘ Osceola
S-rSE
t ,1,0 post readers on tne v
one of the be. such strong
tauqua platform. instilled in
recommendations we feel Jus *“ one
promising the residents ° 0 e ve"-
of the most refined and Plea ing e ye
ings entertainments that tny r
ever had an opportunity to enj
local play house.
PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH
.Sunday sehoel lO
to all of our ser
vices. A vV. BONU. Pastor.
Oknnounii Fruit,
* NAPOLEON Of 'finance
KUlnif Worthless Cheeks Lands a
Youii* Man In Tolls.
Ed. Running i 8 i n the tolu> and a „
because of a habit that he fell into of
drawing checks on banks in which be
carried no deposits. While he operated
be did a flourishing business, and a
number of victims at Okanogan. Oro
'llle and Molson are bemoaning hav
ing placed too much confidence in the
>oung man, as they hold checks return
ed to them rubber stamped "not paid,
lor want of funds.” Mr. Running is not
a stranger in this community, and as
he formerly met his accounts it was
easy for him to float his worthless
checks. He worked for some time for
Mis. C. K. Stanton, and drove a wagon
on the Stanton dairy milk route. He
left tor Spokane some time ago, and
recently drifted back to Orovllle. Last
week he commenced his career as a
check artist at Okanogan, drawing
checks for various amounts on the Spo
kane & Eastern Trust Company. He
saved his face to some extent during
his check drawing operations at Oka
nogan by stating that he had no money
in the bank upon which the checks
were drawn but money would be on de
posit at the bank by the time the
checks reached Spokane.
Mr. Running flitted on to Oroville
and this was an easy field to work.
Here, he divided up the checks he pass
ed between the Spokane & Eastern
Trust Company and the First National
Hank of Okanogan. He would buy
goods and tender a check in payment,
or he would secure money on the
worthless paper. He purchased goods
to the amount of $47.95 at the store of
F. V. Covert, paying the bill by a check
on the Spokane & Eastern Trust Com
pany. Becoming suspicious Mr. Covert
had the local bank telephone to Spo
kane and word was received that no
such individual had a deposit with the
bank upon which the check was drawn.
Mr. Covert lost no time In getting in
touch with Hunning, who gave a plaus
able excuse and stated that he had
money coming from a farmer near Mol
son and would settle the account.
Borrowing a horse from Bob Evans,
Running started for Molson, and there
got busy again with his check books.
He accumulated sufficient to pay tha
larger part of the amount he owed Mr.
Covert and also sent down the amount
of a check he had cashed at the Orovllle
Commercial company store. At Molson
his operations ended. Deputy Sheriff
Ed. Burden was Informed of his check
manipulations and getting on his trail
followed Running to Phoenix, B. C.,
where he found the young man In a sa
loon helpless from drink and without
a nickle on his person. The horse was
recovered at Bridesville. Deputy Sher
iff Ward was notified and he came up
from Okanogan, secured the prisoner
and conveyed him to the county seat
Monday.
Just l.o» much monev Running man
aged io secure on hud checks is not
known, tut the total will run up to
some (200. The crime will go hard
with him, as it Is stated by the officers
that he is now out of the penitentiary
, n pare'e, he having been sent to that
institution from Spokane on a charge
of cattle stealing. The only way to ac
count for his actions is that his mind
is deranged, for It does not seem possi
ble that a sane man would so openly
and cailmly work the check game and
make no effort to escape the conse
quence. tt may be v case where the
prisoner is more to be pitied than to
he blamed. When he worked for Mrs.
Eianion. sc far as can be learned, he
was toady and reliable. Those whom
l.e tend with milk always found him
courteous, pleasant and very accom
modating. H may turn out that the
asylum and not the penitentiary is the
place v hen he should be confined.
AN EFFICIENT OFFICER.
Deputy Sheriff Ward was in town
Monday having in charge Ed. Running,
that Napoleon of finance who was ar-,
rested by Ed. Burden at Phoenix. Mr.
Ward is applying himself so closely to
the business of his office that he has
no time to get out and do much elec
tioneering, and his friends should rally
and do some of the publicity work for
the young man. The county never has
had a more active, nervy and efficient
deputy In the sheriff’s office, and he
has fairly won election to that office.
If merit is not to be rewarded then
there Is little encouragement for a man
U, do his level best in this important
office Mr Ward has earned promotion
and the people of Okanogan county
are ingrates if they do not elect him
sheriff. A man’s capability can be
measured by what he has accomplish
ed in office, and Mr. Ward’s record
proves him to be the right man for the
Ice We d onot doubt for a moment
b„t what he will be elected, hut his
vote should be unanimous.
The hunting party consisting of E. A.
xr. Mahan Fred Hart, C. C. Hedger and
Red Fins’en returned home Monday
evening after an absence °J*er
v. T The boys declare that it is so
timid animals.
OROVILLE, WASHIN tTON, OCTOBER 27, 1916.
ALL IN THE SOIL AND CLIMATE
Mammoth Apples that Have Created a
Profound Sensation.
i
Friday lust, E. B. Newimd, who has
had charge of the old Sfwden ranch,
now owned by F. J. Cumkitngs, of Riv
erside, and situated a iftiort distance
northeast of Orovllle, brought in sev
eral boxes of the largest apples ever
seen by residents of this place. The
exhibition created a senefation even in
a community where and perfect
apples are a common sig&t, and has at
tracted much favorable attention and
comment from stranger* visiting the
town, and there are many such coming
and going every day. All of the apples
• brought in by Mr. Newjand were of
mammoth size, a few )jelng slightly
larger than their fellows. Twenty-six
of the ordinary run of these apples
would fill a regulation apple box. Some
of the picked were mon
sters. Two from a box that Mr. New
lund presented to this ofilce measured
17 inches in circumference lengthwise,
16 1-2 inches around thefeenter, stood
5 1-4 inches high and weighed 36 oun
ces.
There in a wide difference of opin
ion us lo the variety otjthene apples.
They have the five pointy, ridges and
color of the Delicious, abd have been
pronounced of that variety by many
familiar through long experience with
the various commercial varieties of ap
ples grown in the Wenatchee and Oka
nogan valleys. Several residents of
Wenatchee who have seen them declare
they are Delicious without a moments
hesitation. Others claim (diem to he the
Wool River variety, but In shape, tex
ture and color they are as different
from the Woolf River apple as a potato
is from a pumpkin. Still others suggest
Spokane Beauty and even Ben Davis.
Every ear mark points to Delicious,
hut no one has ever seen a Delicious
that will begin to compare with these
specimens for size.
No matter as to the question of var
iety, as that cannot be settled entirely
to the satisfaction of all passing judg
ment, they are apples, firm, bright col
ored, excellent eating and wonderfully
attractive apples. Their, tremendous
size (s evidence of iif tire
soil of this part of the state. The trees
were irrigated, and the marvelous
growth demonstrates the power of wa
ter, in conjunction with a favorable
climate and potential soil, for produc
ing perfect fruit. It should be the duty
of the Commercial club to secure a dis
play of these apples, and that can ho
done now, and place them on exhibi
tion at the Spokane National Apple
show. They would create a furor ami
prove one of the most effective adver
tisements that rould be imagined for
this valley.
Samples of these apples have been
sen; broadcast, and will create a sen
sei ion wherever seen. F. O. Mainwe/ler
shipped a box to relatives In Nebraska,
and it required a large box to accom
modate only a few. Chas. Phelps sent a
box to relatives in New York city. A
gentleman secured several specimens
at this office which he sent to San
Francisco, declaring that they would
be exhibited in the schools of that city.
A country that can produce such ap
ples—and It can produce a better
commercial grade of smaller size—
should appeal to every man looking for
a place to locate, and Insure the speedy
occupancy of every acre under the
West Okanogan Valley Irrigation sys
tem.
APPOINTED MANAGER.
F. A. Granger, county auditor was
in town Monday, and put In his time
looking over the telephone situation
and becoming familiar with the ropes,
that is, the ropes pertaining to the
business ot the system. He is getting
wise to the telephone business because
he has been selected to take charge of
the Pacific Coast Telephone and Tele
graph company’s systems that cover
Okanogan county with a ramification
ot wires, as manager, with headquar
ters at Okanogan. The company was
fortunate in its selection of a manager
as Mr. Granger Is not only capable in
any position that he might be called
upon to fill, but Is widely acquainted
throughout the county and well liked
by all who know him. Any one having
a kick coming, or imagines that he has,
will have to put it up to Mr. Granger,
ar-d if his cause is Just h° will meet
with fair treatment.
— ; -«•>-
R. Grieger is branching out. He has
added a largo line of choice furniture
to his stock and will open about the Ist
of November with about as complete a
line of household goods as has ever
been brought into the county. Mr. Grie
ger was at Seattle last week selecting
the stock. If is all new and first class.
The main store room of his building
at the corner of Spokane street and
First avenue will be devoted entirely
to furniture, his stock of fancy goods
having been removed to the smaller
adjoining room. The sales room has a
large floor space especially adapted
to the display of goods of this nature
to the very best advantage. It Is the
intention of Mr. Grieger to carry all
lines ot furniture, at prices within the
reach of all. and of a quality to suit the
purchaser. It will be well worth while
to drop Into the store and look over
the line of goods that Mr. Grieger is
carrying.
ELECT APPLE SHOW PRINCESS
Campaign on for the Selection of an
Okanogan Representative.
Who shall be
Princess Okanogan?
What young lady
Living in the
Okanogan Apple District
is to go to the
National Apple Show
At Spokane November 20th to 25th
To live like a member of
A royal family, with the
Court of King Pip?
Princess Okanogan
will live in the
Ucatuiful Davenport Hotel
Will lie at home In the
Luxurious lobby.
Will dine in the
Isabella Dining room.
Will dance in the
Marie Anlionette bull room.
Will sleep in the
Richly furnished chamber
and will take part 1 nthe
Spectacular pageants before
Thousands of eager spectators.
To live in sublime happiness
will be the lot of
Princess Okanogan
She will be escorted by
Selected knights of
His Majesty King Pip,
She will listen to
Beautiful music by
Imperial orchestra.
She will visit with other
Princesses of apple land
She will be advised by
Matrons of the court,
She will be the central
Figure of banquets and balls
and will be honored by all of the
People of Apple Land.
Princess Okanogan Is being chosen
by the newspaper readers of papers in
the Okanogan apple district. Cut out
the coupon in the Gazette and vote for
your favorite to be Princess Okanogan.
She must be at least 16 years of age,
and not older than 21, and furnish a
photograph for the National Apple
Show at Spokane.
In this selection of a princess to
represent Okanogan county it should
be femembrode that there Is to be -only
one chosen from the candidates repre
senting the various towns in the coun
ty. The voter has the privillge of writ
ing in the name of any young lady he,
or she, may select. The contest is not
limited to any number of names, still
it would be better to settle upon some
one candidate and support her, if the
town is to be represented in the pa
gent. It would be fortunate it an Oro
ville young lady should be selected for
the honor. However, if that Is to be ac
complished every subscriber will have
to send in ballots promptly. There is
no cost to this contest. It is not gotten
up for the benefit of any one. There are
no ballots for sale, and the only ones
to he used are those cut from newspa
pers publishing the ballot. It Is In
tended that the contest shall be fair to
all, and P is not believed that any can
didate or the backers of any candidate
will attempt methods of securing votes
other than those set forth in the an
nouncement. Orovllle has a number of
handsome young ladies, coming under
the requirements of age, any one of
whom would represent the town with
credit.
A PROSPEROUS PIONEER.
J. O. Burdett, ot Malott, was ming
ling among the residents of Oroville
Monday, renewing old acquaintances
and incidentally doing a little election
eering on the side. Mr. Burdett Is run
ning for commissioner ot the Second
District on the democratic ticket, and
as he is widely known and equally as
well liked he is going to poll a large
vole. Mr. Burdett came to Okanogan
county 24 years ago, and for years
found it mighty hard sledding. Fortu
nately for him he took up land In the
valley near Malott in the early days.
It was close picking for a long time,
but valley lands at last took on fancy
prices. He sold a tract for the snug
sum of SIB,OOO, was lucky In other
transactions until today he Is almost a
plutocrat. Anyhow, he Is one of the
heavy tax payers of the county, and his
address it Easy street. No one envies
him his luck, for deems is a mighty
good fellow and by going through the
hardships of pioneering earned all he
has or all he may yet accumulate.
Dean G. H. Severance was sleeping
In one of the buildings that was dss
11eyed by fire at Republic Saturday
night, when the wife of the manager of
(hr moving picture show was burned to
death. The fire started in the moving
picture house. Just at the close of the
performance, when a red hot carbon
id! upon a lot of films. An explosion
ioDowed. Mr. Hibbard, who conduces
the theatre, escaped with severe burns,
but his wife, who was with him at the
time, was burned to death. Three build
int.s were rpneoyed, and Mr. Severance
states that had there bear, any wind
the entire business section of the town
would have gone up in smoke.
Miss Goldie Mitchell has stated that
she would be a candidate for Okanogan
Princess at the Spokane National Ap
ple show. The names of others may and
can be presented. The contest is open
to any one whose name appears on the
ballots.
A NIGHT OF JOY AT Riderside
Grand Opening of Blackwell & (Vs.,
New Store Building.
Last Friday night was the date of
the opening and dedication of the C. E.
Blackwell & Co's., big new brick store
building at Riverside with a free dance
and free supper, and it proved to be
one of the most successful social gath
ciings that has ever taken place in the
< ouuty, both in point of attendance ana
in pleasure In circulation.
Lust spring Uie Blackwell store and
a number of other buildings, all frame,
was destroyed by fire. Tin com null’
immediately decided to replace the
building destroyed with a large brick
structure, modern in all Us appoint
ments. The contract was let hud work
has been in progress all summer.
When the building was ready for occu
pancy Mr. Blackwell decided to give a
tree dance and supper in commemora
tion of the completion of the structure
before moving in, and public announce
ment was made through the press of
the coming event. The announcement
certainly touched a responsive chord,
considering the number that traveled
to Riverside on the occasion and took
part in the festivities,
A special train was chartered to
leave Oroville at 8 o’clock Friday
evening. At the hour designated for
leaving there waa a large crowd at the
depot, and upwards of 100 persons
boarded the cars. For the first time in
months the train from Spokane was an
hour and a half late, and the special
did not pull out until long after 9
o’clock. At Tonasket many more board
ed the train. This railroad contingent
was large, yet it did not compare
with the number that drove to River
side in autos. It lias been estimated
that between 2000 and 3000 people
were present. Mr. Blackwell and his
army of clerks, recruited from the
three stores at Tonasket, Riverside and
Okanogan, did everything in their
power to make the occasion pleasant
to visitors. The vast floor was crowded
with dancers, the music was the best
that could be procured, a moving pic
ture show kept open house all night,
and a bountiful supper was served In
a-Usce ,
Those who attended the big dance
given at the time of the opening of
the Blackwell store at Tonasket saw
the largest crowd that had ever attend
ed a social event of the kind up to that
date. It is claimed that the attendance
at Riverside surpassed that at Tonas
ket. If It did, the crowd was certainly
an immense throng. People were pres
ent from all parts of the county, some
traveling even from the Methow valley.
It cost the firm providing the enter
tainment a big sum of money, but no
firm ever made a better investment.
HOLI.OWEEN STUNT.
The witches, elves and pumpkin
faces will revel In the Civic League
building Tuesday evening, October 31,
flora S to 10:30 for the entertainment
of the 6th, 7th and Bth grade pupils.
Come one, come all
To the Witches call.
A charge of ten cents for admittance
will be made, the proceeds to be used
for nurchasing Juvenile books for the
library.
«
RIXMAGE SALE.
The Deborah society will hold a sale
of warm clothing, underwear, shoes
and other useful articles Friday and
Saturday November 3rd and 4th, in the
Peerless hotel building.
HEPIBLICAHi HALLY.
Hon. Geo. A, Lee spoke upon the po
litical Issues of the day before a small
audience In the Orpheum Thursday
evening. Owing to the train from Spo
kane being almost an hour late It
was not until after nine o’clock that
the speaking commenced. The speaker
was introduced by County Committee
man A. P. Murray. Mr. Lee Is a forceful
and fluent talker, and he created much
enthusiasm by his arraignment of the
administrations, both national and
state. He quoted from the records and
his arguments were irrefutable. It is
regretted that more people could npt
have heard him, as it is seldom that so
able a speaker visits a town of this
size.
Mr. and Mrs. Henry Staples spent
Tuesday in Oroville, the first visit they
have made to the town in two years
or more. Mr. Staples is a pioneer cow
puncher of the Okanogan country.
Years ago he lived at Loomis and in
more recent years near Tonasket. He
is now located on the south half of the
Colville reservation, recently thrown
open to settlers. Mr. Staples Is gradu
ally accumulating a herd of cattle and
can see better times ahead, if he meets
with no more hard luck like he did
last winter, when he lost twenty head
ot steers in a blizzard. Mr. Staples de
clared that he could not get along
without the Gazette, and to prove that
he was in earnest In his statement, he
boosted his subscription ahead to Sep
tember 1918.
soil. Divided in small tracts It would
make homes for several families, and
each tract would yield to the owner a
comfortable competency.
BREAKING A WORLD RECORD
A Potato Yield Under Irrigation Sys-
tem Never Excelled.
Every once in a while some extraor
dinary large production from the soil
of this valley causes the public to sit
up and take notice, even among those
familiar with the country and Its pos
sibilities in the way of yielding returns
lor cultivation and care. It is gener
ally recognized that anything that will
grow and mature in the temperate
zone can be produced in this valley,
and in quantity and quality that can
not be excelled anywhere in this coun
try. Especially has it been demon
strated that under irrigation there Is
not to be found a more generously re
sponsive soil This claim can be sub
stantiated by tangible evidence that
has come to public notice time and
again. Fruit, vegetables or forage
plants yield prodigiously In this valley,
under the stimulation of water, where
any care Is exercised In cultivation
This is demonstrated by tho size, color
and flavor of fruit growu, both large
and small, the size and quality of veg
etables, and the heavy yield of alfalfa
to the acre.
During the past week wo have had
an object lesson in the harvesting of a
record breaking ylelld of potatoes. H.
H. Granger, who owns what Is locally
known as the old Wellington place,
situated a few miles south of Orovllle,
planted this spring a tract of potatoes
on the bench laud embraced In the
large ranch, located near the old coun
ty road that skirts the foot Jf the
mountain range on the west side of the
)nanogan river. The Wellington ranch
is e laud mark in the north pan of the
county, it being among the earliest
settled ranches in the valley. Every
old tinier knows its location. People
have driven past it ever since the
white man first settled in the valley,
and the late Henry Wellington was
among the first. This land is under
and close to the main canal of the
West Okanogan Valley Irrigation sys
tem. Before the system was construct
ed, nothing was grown upon this bench
land, that is, nothing of any conse
quence, owing to Its aridity. Soon after
the coming of spring the ground be
came as dry as a bone and remained
in that condition until the coming of
the fall rains or snow. Occasionally,
the original owner cut a scant crop of
barley hay from this bench land, but
so far as growing fruit or vegetables,
that was simply impossible without
water.
With ample water at hand, Mr.
Granger decided to utilize some of
this land, and in the spring planted a
garden near his residence, including
this acreage of potatoes. The result,
when he came to harvest that crop of
potatoes not only surpassed all ex
pectations, but surpassed any yield of
that vegetable of which there is any
record. Mr. Granger dug some of the
potatoes and was so surprised at the
quantity contained In each hill that
he decided to have a committee from
die Oroiille Commercial Club witness
the digging from a measured section
of the potato patch, weigh In the pro
duct and report the result. A committee
composed of E. N. Grubb, Elmer
Stansbury, Ed. Klingman and J. F.
Samson drove down to the Granger
ranch Thursday last. A square rod of
land was measured oft which contain
ed 25 hills, the potatoes dug and
weighed. The scales showed that the
square rod produced 330 pounds of
potatoes, and that average would mean
880 bushels to the acre, beating the
world's record for yield of potatoes
per acre, we are told. Some of the
vinos were six feet In length, and of
course, heavy and vigorous. From In
dications It was evident that the
plants had been given some attention
in the way of cultivation early In the
growing period, but were neglected
later in the season, owing to other de
mands upon the time of the grower.
Mad these potatoes received the proper
care until reaching maturity there Is
no telling Just how great the yield
would have been to the acre.
Land that will produce such marvel
ous crops should not remain unoccu
pied and uncultivated. In no country
can the farmer hope tor a better re
ward for his labor than right here In
the northern part of the Okanogan
valley. Every acre of this large ranch,
every irrigable acre under the project
for that matter. Is Just as fertile as the
land upon which these potatoes were
grown. The Granger ranch is fortu
nately situated In Its relation to the
irrigation project. There is ample wa
ter immediately at hand to cover every
acre of the farm, and that water In
sures a bountiful return to those who
In the future may possess and culti
vate the land, giving what is planted
the proper care and attention, be It
fruit, vegetables or alfalfa. Consider
ing its fertility the Okanogan valley,
and especially that part of It under the
West Okanogan Valley Irrigation pro
ject, should become the storehouse of
the state, supplying the demand for
choice fruits and vegetables.
It Is understood that Mr. Granger is
to put his ranch on the market, selling
it In a body If possible, and If not, di
viding It up Into tracts. This land
should find a ready sale considering
the location and the fecundity of the
11.60 PER TSAR
