The Caldwell Watchman
VIL. :30 (' Oi1IiIA, LA., FRIID)AY, OCToIIIElI , 1 9I NO. I
RACING ORDINANCE
FIXES TIME LIMIT
CITY LAW IS INTRODUCED IN
THE COUNCIL BY COMMIS
SIONER LAFAYE.
EXPECT FAVORABLE REPORT
Ordinance Prohibits Racing Except
Between January 1 and "Mardi
Gras," and Also Prohibits Rac
ing On Sundays.
New Orleans.
As the mayor ann(ounc((ed an ordi
nance regulating race tracks was in
troduced in the council at New Or
leans. The ordinance was introduced
by ('ommissioner Lafaye. It was re
ferred to Commissioner Newman. Mr.
Newman said he had not seen the
ordinance and did not know its text
until it was read in tne council meet
ing, but that it appeared to him a
proper measure, and after he had
given it consideration he would prob
ably report it favorably. Under the
law it must lie over for one week,
and will come up for adoption at the
next meeting of the council.
The ordinance requires that officers
and stockholders of any corporation
applying for a permit to conduct
horse racing must be citizens of Louis
i;ana, and it provides how application
must be made, and how opposition
to the permit, if any, shall be heard.
The ordinance prohibits racing ex
cept between "January 1 and Mardl
Gras," and it also prohibits racing
on Sundays and, before noon or after
6 o'clock on any day.
BRIEF NEWS AND NOTES.
The Crowley police jury has failed
to call an election'for a tax of $600,000
for good roads and there is a rumor
the international road from Lafayette
to Lake Charles will run by way of
Opelousas and Eunice, taking a more
northern and less expensive route
where no large bridges will have to be
erected like the one at the crossing
of the proposed route, over the Mer
mentau" river near the Southern Pa
cifio crossings at Mermenithu village.
Bogalusa and parish officials, about
2,000 school children and hundreds of
adult residents of this section par
ticipated in ceremonies attending the
breaking of ground for a new paper
mill, to be erected and operated here
by Northern and Eastern capitalists
in connection with local lumber in
terests. The mill and equipment will
cost $1,000,000, and the plant will have
a daily capacity of from 75 to 90 tons
oL paper.
A checking up of concession con
tracts at Shreveport by President
Secretary W. R. Hirsch of the State
Fair Association shows that all of the
available outside space for conces
sions has been sold, and the bulk of
the inside space has been disposed
of. Negotiations are under way for
the balance of the inside space in the
grandstand and exposition buildings
to be sold soon.
The first week's enrollment of 203
in the Tulane College of Commerce
and Business Administration at New
Orleans is greater than that of the
first five weeks of last year, whicn
was 169, T'hi year's enrollment does
not include that of two large courses,
the second half year course in the
marketing, of cotton, and the course
in banking and finance which does not
begin until October 17, .
Governor Pleasant ,has appointed
T. E. McHugh of Baton Rouge a mem
ber of the Board of 'arole in place
of J. J. Meredith of Caldwell, who did
not quality. Robert H. Marr of New
Orleans and Judge H. H. COrdon of
DeRidder arp other members.
The annual convehion of the Na
tional AssbcfatiqppO· game and fish
ogn1nissionltseS 0opn. at New Or
leans. The Arst -MSl a #-was devoted
to tbe detivefing of welcoming ad
dresses nad drbsp6nses by the dele
The State Nortlal aad the State
University at Natchitoches are each
inchuding Dr. M; V. O'Shea of 'the Unt
versity of Wisconsin among their ly
ceum attractions:; for 'the current
achool 7year. - '
The Shrevepot clearing house re
portaed the largest: volume of business
in its hblatory. It totalled $558,646.43,
against $825,652.8 for the same day
last year.
John Marshall, a-well known build
Ing contractor of P Yme, w,as taken to
'ie esylum at Jackson for treatment.
Judge Porter Parker, in civil dl
trict court at New Orleans, dismissed
the mandamrus suit recently filed by
five meIinmbers of the iunicipal public
belt railroad iby which they soiught to
conlpel the registrar of votrs to re
niove froin t t white regi. rat ion rolls
tihe name of frank II. Jouht",, r.ecrýo
tary and gin r,,Il alanager of the belt
lin,. The pititioners h Larged Joubert
was of colored (dlcent. :In dismiss
ing the sit Judge i'at keyr said Jlou
bert had proved unldouhtedly that
thelre was Ino negro blood in his fain
ily.
The d isinismsal of the suit Ifollowed
the testimony of several per:nI re
gardlin, the delinition of the Spanish
wtortl "Mu'stoza," wihiclh was applied
to Joubert': great grandmother in the
record of her:' marriage. That the
word sigtifiled the offspring: of whites
and Indians. and was not applid to
persons of nelgro blood, iels t(stiilled
to by Francisco S. ('arbajal. Mexico's
provisional pr.esident for a t(in(e in
1914 and formerly justice of Mexico's
supreme court; the Rev. Father Mi
chael Murphy, instructor of ethics and
philosophy at Loyola University, and
Rafael Mallen, instructor of Spanish
at the Tulane College of Commerce
and ltusiness Administration.
.Joubert's mother testified she was
born in Hamburg, Germany, and was
married in St. Augustine's Church
here in 1880 to Charles Joubert. She
declared all aer ancestors were Cau
casians. The rector and keeper of
the archives of St. Augustine's testi
fled a pencilled letter "C," which he
understood signified "colored," was
written beside the marriage record or
Joubert's parents and that the mar
riage had been recorded in that part
of the book which contained records
of negro marriages. The keeper of
the archives at St. Louis Cathedral
testified that the marriage record of
Joubert's grandparents was contain
ed in the book for negroes. He says
frequently in former days births, mar
riages and deaths of Indians also were
entered in the book for negroes.
Dr. W. T. O'Reilly, president of the
city board of health, testified that in
the old birth records an abbreviation
"Col." had been added after the names
of Blanc Francois Joubert, the de
fendant's grandfather, and two other
members of the family. The abbre
viation, the witness said, was written
in different ink from that used in the
original record.
Joubert recently filed charges of
criminal libel against 43 employes of
the public belt who signed a petition
to Mayor Behrman in which they al
leged Joubert was colored. A similar
charge was also filed by Joubert
against P. Henry Lanausee, recorder
of births and marriages for the city
board of health.
.tions in the Louisiana National Guard
for the month of September is an
nounced 'by Adjt. Gen. McCrory of
Baton Rouge as follows: Walter S.
Hava, appointed to first lieutenant;
First Lieut. George C. Collier, pro
moted from lieutenant commander;
Lieut. David C. C. W. J. Neville, pro
moted to be lieutenant commander;
Lieut. David C. Cary, promoted to lieu
tenant Division D; Ensign W. F,
Raikle, promoted to Division D.
A good roads meeting was held at
Morrow and a party of boosters from
Bunkie who came in automobiles
headed by C. J. Pope, who spoke in
the interest of the proposed link of
the Jefferson Highway, which is to
be opened between here and Bunkie
by December 1. A tax for graveling
this section of the road will be sub
ject to vote.
The McNary & Cady Lumber Com
pany of Forest Hill are building a rail
road bridge that will span Spring
Creek. The bridges will be nearly a
half mile in length and will require
a great deal of piling driven to a
great depth on account of the swift
current when water overflows the
creek banks.
Work on the drainage canals near
Suyden is now under way. Several
large dredge boats commenced to plow
their way through the canals and an
effort will be made to complete the
work in time for next season's crops.
Property owners of this location have
voted $250,000 for the improvements.
The first month of the current quar
ter of the State Normal School at
Natchitoches closed. Under the new
faculty rule, whereby no student is
allowed to carry more than twenty
hours, the number of failures has been
greatly reduced. The record shows
that failures are the exception.
After a litigation of six months be.
tween Gus Well qnd HI. S. Batts, who
ran for the mayoralty of White Cas
tle, April 18, a jury rendered a verdict
in favor of Mr. Batts, declaring him
duly elected mayor.
The Petty & Hightower saw and
planing mill and about two carloads
of lumber burned near Lucky, in Bien
ville parish. The loss is estimated
at from $4,500 to $3,000, and no in
surance.
GERMAN PRISONERS CAPTURED IN THE SOMME DRIVE
" : [ T .r 4 \ I:::,. ;: •, ;.
..:..,., . . ...
' . "
4:a ý "ý.. . . . R 2 ^ .. , . . .....:: .,, ,)9,,.:
·· h am -' ý. 5 O
A scene in one of the great English peitiO pens wh r' the eaptured Germans are held. Theih.' are kc'l,t
! irhd-wire Inclosuri.s during the day, and- at night sleep in small tents.
~t9:~ ...:~~·~·r ....l ·
SV E N IMILi DL/IATH
IN DYE PLANT fiRE
OFFICE FORCE TRAPPED ON SEC
OND FLOOR OF NEW YORK
FACTORY.
New York.-Seven persons were
burned to death and two others who
are missing are believed to have lost
their lives in a fire which destroyed
two factories in the manufacturing
section of Queensborough, with a ma
terial loss estimated at $250,000.
The charred bodies were not found
until the flames had been extinguish
ed and firemen were pouring water
into the ruins of the buildings. All
those burned were employed in the
plant of the Oakes Dye Manufacturing
Company, where the flames stae
"-In addition to th ice't-bJh
five one-story storage builaings o 'the
Oakes company were destroyed. From
these buildings the fire spread to the
Astoria Veneer Mill and lumber yard,
where many thousands of feet of lum
Iber was destroyed.
The police have learned that an
electrician at work on the first floor
of the dye-making plant dropped a
ladder, which struck a jar containing
chemicals, that burst into flames.
A half dozen windows were located
close to where the office force was at
Work and it would have been a drop
I of only 16 feet to the street. The
authorities believe the employes were
suffocated by chemical fumes.
Gives Back His Loot.
Chicago.-Adam Prochowski, chlo
roform burglar, whose operations un
der the guise of a physician are be
lieved to have netted him $100.000 in
the last two years, led the police to
a safety deposit box in a West Side
bank and returned jewels valued at
$25,000. Prochowski carried a phy
sician's grip when he entered a house
and administered chloroform to its in
mates so he could work without in
terruption.
Penalty of Curiosity.
El Paso, Tex.-A party of distin
guished delegates to the National Irri
gation Congress, in session here, in
cluding Dr. John A. Widstoe, presi
dent of the University of Utah, was
detained in the barracks of Juarez
for over an hour as the result of the
curiosity of one of the members re
garding the military situation in the
Mexican town. When the identity of
the visitors was established, all wete
released.
Villa On Hearst Ranch.
El Paso, Tex.--Francisco Villa- is
now on the Hearst ranch at Babicora,
according to a statement of ;iasseen'
gers arriving here from Pearson, a
station on the Mexican Northwestern
Railway below the Americanr expedi-'
tionary. b se:. Passeqger' -ifroni Par-,
ra, say that Villa bands ar" moving
northward and advices from Torreon
report them heading northwest..
,1pain Bart StibmaArte'. ::
London.-Thbe.Wireless Press has
received word. frdou Madrid by way of
Rome that the ' Sprhii3h' ,igivernment
has given definite orders prohibitiig
the revictualing of submarines in
Spanish waters. SeV~al tortdb6t0ats
have arrived at Palma and are ps*
trolling the Balearic islands. in the I
western Mediterraue&n. .
Fea- lendustryI Menacyd. -
Waahington.--t is said auithorita
tively that should the operation, of
German submarines, develop prolong
ed paralysis of AmeirPan' trade in the"[
Atlantic or any injury' ft6 iral Ameri- i
can interests abroad iSsue may ,bej
raised regarding tie intehitional laJ r
Questions. . -: ." . .
CHiNESE TERRITORY
SEIZED BY FRENCH
SQUARE MILE OF LAND AROUND
TIEN TSIN WAS GRABBED
RESISTANCE IS LIKELY.
FOREIGN OFFICE OBJECTS'
t
Chinese Press Says Action of French
Is Actual Warfare Against China
,.and Surpasses Tactics of Japanese
, --The Police Are Seized.
g.- square mile of territory
S. Frech condession at I
i- n as een' forcibly setsed bye
the nch consul with. the assistance
of t ps. The Chinese police were
arreid .and Frenchmen substituted
for tim. Replying to a protest from
the Glinese foreign office, the French
legatlin at Peking replied it assumed
the reponsibility of any'violence that
might result from the action. t
Thedistrict occupied by the French
is thikkly populated, and the Chinese
are threatening violence, as they have
stublirnly resisted for many years.an
nexaton to the French concession, ]
and its protest to the French legation
tne foreign office gave warning that it E
would not be responsible if violence
resulted. f
The Chinese press is violently as- t
sailipg the action of the French, de
claring that it "surpasses Japanese
tactics and is actual warfare against
defenseless China." i
TienTsin is the port of Peking, and I
has a population of 750,000. The i
French concession in Tien Tsin is sit- t
uated on the eastern bank of the Hai
Ho and prior to its present extension
was about one mile and a half long
by a half mile in width. South of the
French concession lies the British con
cession, while to the north are the t
Italian and Japanese settlements.
Thb territory, that has been taken
by the French was ihe sole remaining
district in the foreign concessions in
habited by natives, and its seizure by
the French probably means that the
Chinese section will be entirely elimi
nated from the foreign area.
Dove From U-53.
Edgewater, N. J.-''he police are
holding ,prisoner a white dove with
.a band of yellow on its leg hearing the
inscriptioti, ".ltJ53," the number of the
Gert~an submar(ife that made its
memorable raid off Nantucket. The
dove. fluttered in the window of a
business office here. Its captors do
pot .kbow from whence it came.
'Prohti Special Is Stoned.
Detroit.-A stone was hurled by an
.upideltified leOrson against the rear
window ot' the prohibition special
train observation car just outside
Fort,Wayqe, Iad., showering broken
plate glass over Ira Landrith, the pro
hibition vice presidential candidate,
and other members of the party, but
injuring no one.
Open .N'w Dallas Station.
..Dallas, Tex.-Dallas' new union ter
minal:stationh, erected at cost of $5.
000,000, and requiring three years to
construct, was formally opened to
h'ailroad traffic 'and the public.
D~ --.
Ten Die In Collision.
Elwood, Neb.-Ten men were killed
andl'd others ;seriously injured when
a 4train.- on the-Burlington railroad
icrashed into a freight caboose in
.iich'the mie were riding, 12 miles
asti o hbe~r. I.·
ROUMANIANS DRIV[
TEUTON FORCE BACK
ACCORDING TO OFFICIAL STATE
MENT INVADING UNITS ARE f
PUSHED BEYOND BORDER.
t
Bucharest.-Roumanian troops are
pushing back the invading Austro- i
German forces on the Transvylvania r
frontier. At Predeal, according to the r
official Roumanian statement issued J
the Roumanians drove back Teuton (
units beyond the border. The Rou- i
manians also claim to have gained
ground in the Bran defile.
In the Trotus Valley, the statement t
adds, the Roumanians forced the Aus- t
tro-Germans to retire and took 600 1
prisoners and' 12 cannon.
A4otutr Roumanian detachment, at- (
tacking from Gofoasa, Ini the Trotra I
area, surprised the Teuton troops and
took 300 prisoners and some machine
guns. i
The official statement follows: i
"On the north and northwestern s
fronts there have been artillery ac
tions at Tulghes and Bioaz.
"One of our detachments, passing 1
by way of Lampris Mountain to Agas,
in the Trotus valley, attacked the
enemy with the bayonet and destroyed
12 of his cannon and limbers. It fore
ed the enemy to retire and captured I
600 prisoners.
"Another detachment, attacking
from Goioasa, in the Trotus, surprised
the enemy, taking 300 prisoners and
capturing some machine guns.
"In the Uzul valley we repelled i
enemy attacks. In the Cituz valley
fighting continues with extreme vio
lence. Minor engagements took place
in the region of Vrancea. On the fron
tier, at Table Butzi, there were light
engagements. In the Buzeau valley
artillery fighting is under way. The
situation is unchanged at Bratocea
and Predelus.
"At Predeal we drove back beyond
the frontier small enemy units which
were advancing toward Chabucepul
and Taurului. We gained ground in 1
the Bran defile. i
"The indications from Drago-Slavele
are that the small enemy columns
which had advanced toward the Scara
Pass have been stopped.
"On the remainder of the front the
situation is unchanged.
"On the southern and southwestern
fronts (I)obrudja and the Danube
line) the situation is unchanged."
For Dry Chicago in 1918.
Chicago.-Plans for a campaign to
make Chicago "dry" in 1918 were an
nounced by the Dry Chicago Federa
tion. Fifty thousand dollars was
pledged to carry on the campaign.
Dr. Philip W. Yarrow, superintendent t
of the federation, said that 32 organl
zations have united to work for the
closing of Chicago's saloons, and that
the question will be submitted to a
referendum vote in the spring of 1918.
$250,000 For Painting.
New York.--lenry C. Frick has
bought Rembrandt's painting, "An
Old W'oman Reflecting Over the Lec- I
ture," for $250,000. This makes the
fourth Rembrandt in Mr. Frick's art
collection, and is said to bring the
amount he has spent for art works in
the last year up to approximately
I$2,300,000.
Assurance By Carranza.
Atlantic City, N. J.-Supplemental
assurances from General Carranza
that he is beginning a new and vig- 1
I orous campaign against Villa were
received by his representatives on
the Mexican-American Joint Commis
sion.
CARR NZ VAN URau
AMBUSHEH bY VILLA
HID IN RCCK DEFtLES ALO NG
RAILROAD AND SLAUG:iTERS
HIS PURSUERS.
CARRANZA FORCES RETREAT
Scouting Force From Fifth U. S. Cav
airy Was at Las Cruces, Ab!out 2
Mi.es Distan:, While Vl. WLs at
Santa Anna, the Letter Sa.d.
1.'I fdar-o. i "rIa. iV -o S 1 ;.l( l, 4iIt,
h1_ *: !:t!n . fa r IIne l 'y S , l "c l 1 ,,e. ,
, t<l .agerlt 1for th ' federal dloa it n tý ai . Vil
la retreated Irihl a( lIo: till :iu idi " of
San Andres, 40 tlel on ith rati Oaid,
WeVst of ( 'hihunIiua 0itN, toIrd Snl
Andr.re, and hld in the rcuiky deliles
alon:. the rlailro; :l, from \hilch they
K poured a h'ea;y tire into tthe' Carrainza
trooi;s.
The -arranza fo('cei- retreatldi to
Santa Ysahel, then to Paloml;a, and
E- are now reported to be in Fresno, a
few miles west of Chihuahua City.
Carranza officials Ihere admit there
has been heavy fighting between San
ta Ysabel and Chihuahua City.
re Gen. Jacinto B. Trevino, coimmand
ro- ing the forces of the Carranza com
tia mander in Chiuhahua City, sent : de
he nial to Gen. Francisco Gonzales in
ed Juarez of the report that ,Gen. Carlos
on ozzuna h:'d been killed during the
)U- fighting with the Villa forces, west of
ed Chihuahua City.
Villa spent several days on the San
ant ta Anna ranch, near Namiquipa, one of
us- the Hearst properties, before he and
i00 his band suddenly left a week ago, ac
cording to a letter received here from
at- the manager of the ranch. They were
us hIntitng for. caceu ot ammunition
nd which they were unable to find. The"
ne bandits slaughtered 600 beeves and
turned their horses loose to feed in
the cornfields of the ranch, the letter
rn said. All available horses were
ac- seized.
A scouting force from the Fifth
ng United States Cavalry was at Las
As, Cruces, about 25 miles distant, while
he Villa was at Santa Anna, the letter
ed said. Villa fought on his own prop
re- erty it is learned there. Hlls ranch at
ed Fresno was bought from a German.
ng Captain Rush To Retire.
ed Boston.-Capt. W. R. Rush. U. S.
nd N., commandant of the Boston navy
yard, who led the 6.000 marines and
ed sailors who landed at Vera Cruz from
ey the Atlantic fleet under the act pro
io- viding for retirement after 40 years'
cc service. Captain Rush is .,8 years old,
- and was appointed from Louisiana in
ht 1872.
he Up Go Prices Of Shoes.
ea Pittsburgh.-Wholesale prices on
men's and women's footwear have
nd been advanced 50 to 75 cents a pail
ch within the last 72 hours, and certain
mul hlnes have been withdrawn entirely
in from the market, owing to a shortage
in loather, according to officers of the
le Pennsylvania Shoe Travelers' Asso
ns clation.
Typist Breaks Record.
he New York.--By writing 137 accurate
words a minute for an hour, Miss
in Margaret B. Owen of this city has
be again won the world's typOwriting
championship and a $1,0o4 cup and
beat her own previous record of 136
words a minute. The contest took
to place at a business show here.
ra- Arizona Commissioned.
as New York.-The superdreadnought
:D. Arizona, one of the two most powerfuli
nt ships of the United States navy. was
al- put in commission at the navy yard
he here under command of (:apt. John
at B. McDonald. The vessel has a dis.
a place of 32,567 tons and carries 1U
18. 14-inch guns.
Shoots Daughter's Beau.
as Canton. O.-After courteously greet
tn ig Victor Roderick, 19 years old,
e suitor for his daughter's hand, in iis
he home, W. G. Brittson, a well-known
irt baseball pitcher, shot the youth and
he then committed suicide here. Briltt
in son objected to the youth's attention
!ly to his daughter.
U. S. Line is Extended.
El Paso, Tex.-A report reached
tal here by way of Mexico ('City that Gen
za eral Pershing had extended his line
Ig- south to Namiquipa, where the Fiftn
re United States cavalry went into the
on camp that it abandoned when the pu
Ii- nitive expedition was drawn north*
ward because of the rainy season.
