ffe
52D YEAR.
OREGON, MISSOURI, FRIDAY,. OCTOBER 27, 1916.-12 PAGES.
NUMBER 26.
CIRCUIT COUKT GKINDING.
The October Term of Our Circuit
Court In .Session. A I.IrIiI
Docket.
1'ruvinitrmitntlons of the special 1
conmltWe of tlic Missouri State liar
Aisoclnllon in mo interest oi simpu
fylng niul expediting litigation will
have great wcignt imn .nc iaymci.
Amnnir the troubles lliat made Ham
let contemplate suicide wan "tlic law 'a
lelayi." There will probably be some
ucb dclnvx u long ns there arc low-1
ycr. It In n part of their business,
when they Happen tit tie retained oni
tit's utile whose interests lies In ilctav. I
Wo ("hall probably never reach the
happy time when lawyer will fall
to take advantage of nil existing rules
In behalf of their client. The only
hone Is that the rules way be modified
ncconlliiK to abstract principles, free
from the prejudice of the particular
lltltcatlon. That the rules huve work
ed badly Is evidenced by the fact that
the supreme court of our state is
three venrs behind Its docket, anil
there nre GOO cae on the docket of
the St. l.oul Court of Anneals. The
proposal for retaining, tlic- Supreme
Court commissioners and for appoint
ing these commissioners for the St.
IauIs Court of Appeals alms only at
relief of congestion. It docs not strike
nt the causes.
Various suggestion for simplifying! .. ..,., .i i,
appeals, shortening the reconl, "C- i to "ene Ills term, and wus parol-
ACKTYI.KNK OAS KILLS.
.Matt Thomas, of Mmiml City, Killed
by Acct)lcne Gas Knptnslnn
At Home. '
iTOPPtrOPOATEPiCSiCXl
jrBOMi:rTB.vcB5l
lTntiftitiLFORwtPi.v uaa Minjiyippil ' llano &ftTTLF.3HiP'i
t C Urktm After forcing oreece to give op nr navy, maiming ine two rormer American uaiursnips mssuuui'iu snu lunno, as wen oj mw
nCWB anapsnOIB telegraph anil railroads, the allies troops which Invniliit Athens were met by Infuriated mobs of cltlr.cn. The Krlrsson ami oilier
fit iUm IVW Culled BUtcs destroyer were placed on patrol along our canst to hunt for piwslble U Imnt base. I.lnulil nro was ul in Her
VI IIIC TVCCB ruany'i d values Into lloiiinnnla; Itusilaus coimui'mvd r.cllrlty along their entire 400 mite front. Arson and bullets marked the
...a.. ..f .Hi u..rk,. in iimimno. V. J. l.anil tislt rs i im" Lull! br su Illinois (onccrn to nvsl the uritini -unit" mar im soni to l.iincii mic tinny.
Chancing tlic new V boat dinners, William K. Vnndcrbllt. Br., nrrlred on the Lafayette, Thomas M. Oslioroe, "(loMcn Utile" wnnlen of Sing Sing prlsoa,
IMlKiied. Japan s new premier, Held Msrslisl Tersuiul, ssjm lie I not wawins a swora. jvrouie u. a raven, muuiis goner, saimi.
Ing the necessity for elaborate onln
ions in every case, eliminating tho rl-
cd
Slnto vs. Krnl (Irnves, enrryl
tllculous technlcalltiei. In criminal confenIr, weapons. I'ltod guilty and
procedure and denying appeals from .n, ,vcn tvvo yFa , ,., ,,c'n,cn.
the Judgment of the circuit court In t, ,, wtl ,,,,,,, ,y ,),e court.
petit cases, where only money Is In
volvcil, seem to be in the right direc
tion. Missouri has too many exnen-
slve calf rases growing out of sheer
stub horness or litigants, it should bo In, .,. numlssed.
possible to rrnme rules roi limiting stfttc ,.. Tom l'lcosnnt, malicious
Stale vs. II. II. Carlton, disturbing
the pence. I'lcnd guilty and was fined
$5.0i).
State vs. r.nicst iicynoius, uisturD
wnunillnir of animals. Continued.
State vs. S. II. llnminll, assault witn
Intent to kill. Continued.
State vs. Joseph Dodge, ussault
with Intent to kill. Continued. . .
State vs. (ieorgc l.umly, grnnil lar-
such appeals without doing violence
to substantial Justice. Whatever dis
trust of courts there may be in this
country generally arises from the In
tricacy or the technical rules tnat ap
pear to the Iny-mind to have been
fashioned, to defeat rather than pro- v. Continued to November t,
mote Justice. Tho Missouri State liar cii... ... i 11 white, rape. The
Association Is to be congratulated on ,i.r.n.un ..n. riinrr,l ulili utiemnt.
Its earnest cltorts at reform. It lali
n wise policy, for If the lawyer do not ... r.ltv. nn (vtohor :i. He nlead cull-
take tho Inlative, the laymen may ty nn(f Was given two year in the
take the matter In hand in such way .
as to work irrennrablc inlur es to the I ... i ..n,r i"nn... nm.nlt
orderly pmccsse of the courU. I P0nl Btillty, six months in Jail, an.l
ine court ami nis aiue-iic-camp, r, paroleil
Lecdy. the stenographer, were on Htato vs. Sam KVlexander, grand
band Monday morning, anil found all ll.rrenv. Continued to Novemlter 9.
the oftlcer of the court readv. and as I Thn n tun- -. rnit.i u n. nn
u consequence, tlic court began grind- Tuesday, und was on the docket n
HiK u k"i luuiiipny unit Hiinout 1 1 imt or Ktlwanl r lucnani vs. men
My . . anl II. llrldgcman. IloUi nrc attor-
Tlicrc were six excused from scrv-
ney here, their properties adjoin,
ins as Jurors, hut their nlacw
promptly nilcil by Sheriff (Jclvln, and nnrt of tho city, and both properties
niu ciitk iiuuiiimi mo iuiiuhiiik i formerly bciongeii to jas. n, I'ayne,
pet t Jurors: hr. llrldgcman bought his pluce llrst,
iigeiow it. .11. api imon. nn, built a fence, which Mr. Hichanls
Ilenton A. It. McNulty, (rank rlnlm In several feet west of Mr.
ruhrman, I A. Judy, Chris Stroble. llrldgcman' lino and over on to tho
Chas.
Sah-
Shu-
Clay 1 M. Thompson.
I.impp, Jucmt iiomecKer.
Forbes Wm. Kanchcr, Chas.
lin.
Korest .1. K. Ilalser, J. M.
mate, M. It. Cummins.
Hickory Ceo. W. Mohler.
Iwls Chas. Cowan, W, K. Ilragg,
Geo. Lehmer, Will Tattcrson, John
llamsey.
Liberty Thos. Hlnes.
Lincoln Jas. Mavity.
Nodawuv Krnest Oppenlander,
Union Chris Lawrence, Itogcr Mc
Co:
lllchanls property. Mr. II. claimed
that he and Mr. I'ayne agreed that
where he built the fence should Im
the ne. The Jury gave u verdict for
.Mr. Kiriianis.
Wedding Annlrrssry.
1 When the AlKires. ine Minions, inr
llnjds end the tllnktcs came to the
nK' Missouri bottom section, In Western
Holt, there were not so many acres
in corn, wheat, alfalfa, nnd in or
chatils rs now. On the contrary! t
was but n wilderness of cnttonwomls,
elms, walnuts, etc. Tinlny there Is no
better or more productive section in
nil the state than this section. Tliey
enme and blazed the way, and to then
sturdy plimeeiK a debt of lasting grat
itude Is due.
KlUnh Alklre wos one of these pio
neers, bl't hns long since passed to
Ills reward. Two sons survive, nnd
nrc still residents of our county W.
still of the bottom, nnd II. I., an
attorney of Oregon. These pioneers
scllletl in the niicwiiiie, now ine
Kortescuc section.
W. J. Alkirc came to Holt county
from St. Charles county, this state, In
lH.il, where lie was born August -.
IBM. nnd locntcd on what Is now
known as tho I'lill Davis place, with
his nn and ma. near tho Idltwildc
school house. In hi young days, he
grew ipilte familiar with the whlsllr
and bells nf every steam-boat that
nlied the Missouri In those days,' as
they rounded to at the old Kust WMt
Cloud landing to take nn wood, or
pork, rrom the niii us Iras nancy
Killing houses, and they did not get
any ?8 or $10 for their hogs In those
times f..V) or fiM was the
ton then.
Mnitha lluyd was the daughter nf
J. C. llnyd, one of the earliest srttlerj
of the bottom, who located on lands
now owned by John C. Ilinkle, and
here Martha grew up to young
voitmnhooil, and In ilue time took a
fancy to this young man, W, J. Alklr?,
and nt the aire nf '12 years. W. J.'lcil
Muithn to the allur. and the wcdtling
occurred October IK. 1HTII, nnd for
fter voting returned to Inwa.
In 18.(7. Mr. nnd Mrs. henstercame
to Holt county, from lown, anil local-
llseil
Dan el nnk. In IK.Vi, ho took part In l( (Dem.). Is also survived by four brotl
the building of the old hotel at Iowa I ii,.ntn. South P. H. llurnelt. n slsler, Mrs. Mary lloyil. of I
l'olnt. w'-lch wns deslroyiil two weeks , rnnk ll.Skeels. Ion McNulty. (I!ep)i of Oregon: (ieorgc II. and Hi
after Its comn lellon. T,10l(i niorii h. I, Coson, Win. Kr- this county Chns. W., of W
eil In Oregon. He wns n plasterer and imrlles to net as Judges nt the coming Miss Anna lllalr. by whom there wero
mnson by trade, and. on coming here, .election, to be held Tuesday, Novcm five, chlldrrn.twn dvlng In Infancy, tho
ho rtmck his first Job on the I. o. O. .r 7, tpifij three surviving rldldrfn nre: Mrs.
I', and Masonic building, then being. ielow II. A. Ilrown, .1. W. White, (irace Miller, Mrs. t'enrl l'orter anil
coiiMnicteii ny James roster. ur--Ti T Wilson, (liep.); John Sinter, son, lllalr, all of Mound City. Mr.
ii ni-i ivi-M.vin .jnjjp lllnkle. John Couglilin, (liem.i. uiomns men .unrrii 1, nru un aep-
iixik pari in iiir.rjMifiiuiiniii 1 . v,.rtii rj. v. Mever. wm.nemner ii, r.ni,. .Mr. inomn mnr-
rlcl stun; building in 1 nref t City, M v-itnirt.. llolnh Cottier. (Ileti.1: rled Sarah Josephine Moore, who with
1 "ii I 1 .1 . ' I'nvl, liennis Lower, tieo. n nnnpien son, unions, survive, nn
rntner ami
T the statn
llnr.l. nt
m. , 1, l I4IIIR Hi fun ipi .1, ...... ..1, j. liiM'Hln " ... . .
niter us comn et ion. Tims, tin an . t. I Cason. Wm. Kr- this county! i:ims. W.. or WocHllan-l.
Ilo followeil his Irnile rnr roiir yenra w ()om), California! nnd Hubert, of St. Joseph,
n Oreffon. when he went on the old .-i... w w 'inri 1 w. UVI..II When n vnnnir mnn nf 17. i imlinl
Dnn llurrr farm, and then went to K K. Hart ram, (Hep.): C. T. Craves, with the Christian rhurch. ond wna
wor't for Uncle Jlmi.ilo Dunrnn on the- w , Southwell, I. M. Thompson, active In both church and Sunday
old D"ernn Mill, on th" Nwlnwav, and 1 i, school work.
he well remenber the drought of, I'orest Major Clnrk. Albert Koll- Matt Thomas was n live, pogresslvo
iron, ni'ii ion in niin-uiii uir i mcr, W. K. Doliliins, (llep.J! II. II. ciuicn, nnu nn entiiusinstic goon roan
stream irtmy tlmej during that sum- hvrhune, IM Kvurts, Daniel Hoover, man, and nt the time of hi death wa
oirr. rniouiK liiii 10' itiiioiii ill Mlpni 1
MM . 1. 1.. ....I ... "'"."
Opened Tor lluxlncss.
The Hotel Woodland has again
thrown open it doors for tho accom
modation oi guest ana ine weary
traveler, who desires to find rest.
Messrs. II. C. Strong and A. II.
Jones, who have hnd cafe and hotot
1' t.r r.-i..i- 1.... 1... 1 ... .. experience, have rented the building
aiicrui it:iviii nu ni new new m ', ... ; ...i pi. ,u,in
rnmfnrtnli e revo v nir cha r n aenl i"i."-.
In the Jury box: they
re a nice audition
tures.
ThA Cnllnu'lncy rn.B hitvn lie in ilifi.
f. ncss.
o the court' fix- SSJSSU
men,
and
their
manner, and seem to know their busl-
They arc both married men,
ib. tnuy aru ww nmiricti iiivn.
ST. r.r iinconn itinror anil the two couples seem to take noiu
The parole case of Koscoo Blazer . .. k nltuii.. eomp, t-
these III years they have Iteen "soli
rs, sharing with each olliri
was dtscharireil.
State vs. I.ce Pilklnglon, parole,
Continued.
State vs. Leo I'ilklngton, parole,
Continued.
Forfeiture of recognizance was con
them with a will and pleasantness
that favorably impresses us. All of
tho parties arc experienced cooks, and
seem to Know now to serve a meai.
We trust that all our citizens will en'
roricuuru 01 rccuKiinuiiii' w iun- --,. tlienn vounir neonlo bv vivlnff
tele'? ChMCBWlckfscraR M Trice thwfihteV ff dK
i If i v l'.li the hotel, .which wa built by tho
nd It. A. hckanl. nubile snlrlteil citizens of Oregon, and
, state vs. uavm r uncner, Mnugviun. 1 - .1 ',u . i.i .
I . V PIIUUIU HI, ,VI,. Ml,
Our business men
city
and citizen
c 11. u..m. .n.i,..t,i.n should tako a special Interest In our
.Sadie Mulllns, disturbing ,,.., -n(i h-...' for It cverv dav In
, Dismissed by the state. 4V,. ,-.i, .., .....v i .:..
. Fred Graves, operating ;V "...r.i !...- n.J.
I .1 U LUIIIIIICILIUI II .11 llltDII b IU
Continued. .. ... hml to th extent that It mav nrove
pi iSVr " ,C0Tge 11 ' K """"'"fr profitablo to Messrs. Strong and
fined .!). I Jones nnd a booster for our city.
OlBtO VS. blljUIl IkUllllun, Kwliiui,,ii
r lnea
SUte vs,
the peace.
State vs.
motor vehlclo wh le intoxicatcu. wis- uke mca, , ,he t Mm ;
mUstd nt ilefondantrt cost. Lt.i. f u.i. 14.11..1 r..A,
SUto vs. Alonzo Ucaglo. disturbing nall c. hawUe Bnd transmit your
tha peace. Dismissed by the rtate. otdB un, the gooila will como If you
atate vs. wm. iicr.ce, n.. hayo finanda ,laminK. Thfro Is
battery. Continued. . no reason on earth why the Hotel
SUto vs. Charles rennlngton, ob- Wo0(1,nd ghoud not bo ma)e an cn.
strutting public highway. Cont nued. Joyab0 Btopplng place for tho so-
uf . yA: n Jorncr In our city.
U L Vv I y VII HI'I'iuhuvii -4
cost or defendant.
rt.,. Ti.r in.t I mm forired two The lomlng lhauiauqua,
,..x,t, tin .h nn hla hest friend. The iruarantv list for a 1917 Chau-
Hvvna a w vv w-v - w . ----- - -
John C. Hlnkle. He went to uaua tauqua nas now ocen eigneu vy oo oi
JCIark'a restaurant In Mound City and our representative citizens, and tho
.mI.i . rinnil refused to contract closed with the Travers-Wlclc
11. k. tn .kir nn,l charlev nald Irhautaunua System, of Del Moines.
th- bill, but not until no nan. toKen iowb, ior ino vicnu m ihk-i
the check to Dave Wilson, who took talent and all detail a to the 1017
It and gave Charley the cash. He program hoi been agreed upon, for
Crouie In Mound City. He went went lis of an unusual high class, and auffl-
to St. Joseph where ho was arrested clcntiy vanea to piease an ciasse
to fiST "couTtl f and was give? five r A meeting of the guarantors will
tt .m I 1a AHlanliaV nil aPalPri I sill CBIICU DUUI1 1UI UIO UUIUVN W W-
JouALi' tTn' r.' tTrS. At the ganlzaUon, . flection ol offleers,
partners, sharing with each other the
good nnd the bnd. the surccsfc anil
failure incident to so long u mnrrici
and nloneer life.
The Incident of their 4!ld wnlding
day wns tho occasion or a visit from
their children, on Sunday, tho 15th
Instant, and these together with their
children had a good time with Father
and Mother A k re. and each on part
Ing wished and honed that they all
might be spared to bo with their par
ents on their golden wedding day, on
October 15. 1U1!3.
Mother Alkirc, who has been quite
an invalid ror a number or years,
was enabled to be at tho bountifully
supplied table, by means of her wheel
ed chair, and greatly enloved the joy
ous coming of those so dear to her
heart. This couple have occupied tho
same nome since loiv, wnicn iney oc
cupied six year after their marriage,
Sir. and Mrs, Alklre have raised a
mighty fine bunch of children, and
these arc: J. K., merchant, of Forest
City; Mr. C. 0. VanCamp, Kxodus
district; Ira I, of Walnut Grovo
district; Mr. Itoy Ilinkle, of Illgolow;
v, ii., or urrgon, county collector.
All the children are married, and havo
given to their parents an' even dozen
grandchildren.
Slay it ever be well with you all I
Mntt Tliomn fet death nt hi
home In Mound City, nn Snturday
evening of laid week, October' 21,
1!IW. by the exnlo'Ion or the ncetyleno
gn plant.
.Mr. l nomas, while taking id ease
at his homo, nhervcd that the light
wns not what It should be, nnd in
rnmnnnv with his son. started to the
llitht plnnt, which Is separate from
the home. A lantern was lighted, anil
the son carried thl. On entering tho
light plnnt it wns hut n moment when
the explosion took place. A cylinder
in the plant was blown out, striKlng
Mr. Thomas under the chin nnd over
the breast, forcing him back breaklnjt
his neck, nnd breaking almost every
rib In bis body. Ills son was slightly
burned on the hands.
The dccenseil wns the son of the)
late Ceo. W, Thomns nnd wife, who
eamo to Holt county In 1 8.8 from
Kentucky, locating In Hickory town
ship. The father died November
I In) 7 nt the age or rO years, and tho
mother died October 1!. 1007. at tho
age of SO.
The deceased. Matthew llrucc
Thomas, was Wn on a farm four
miles northwest nf Oregon, on Sep
tember Ii. 18A0, and died October HI,
ll'in, ngeil m yenr and Z'.i days, in
Judges nf Klrrllnn.
The cnunlv court, nt Its session Inst
week, made (ho following selection of K82 he was united In marriage to
Hickory tnwnshln. and became the
owner of Hie farms, now known n
the Ktihn nnd Clmrley Crlder places.
He, in time, disponed or llienc ami
went to Mound City, where he nnd his
wire havo been living a most quiet,
retired life.
Mr. Kraster, when the Uivll Wur
was nn. did not enter for active ser
vice, but Joined the nillitln regiment.
organized at Oregon by Mnjor Krlley
and . uouinnn.
Mr. nnd Mrs. henster nrc the par
ents of coven children, nil or whom
In member nf the count v seat hiahwav
Forbes A. U I'lillcn. Ii. V. Cotlen, commission.
F. I- Stout. (Itep.); A. (5. Young, J. I Funeral services were held from tho
K. Tnvlor, I). II. Fansher. Jr.. (Pern.), lamuy nome, on .Monuav or this week,
Hickory O. r. Ilotkln, Vince (i. mo interment being in the Ilenton
CP.
M. Meyer, Hobert lloswell,
Uiiimon, (Dem.)
frMor W lliMlirin. Hlen.l! ltnlnh Cemetery, beside hi llrst wife anil
uinuuoil"reni. i ne luncrai Discourse wa
delivered by Klder II. 11. Dawson, of
the Oregon Christian church.
Those Itohbrrlt'K.
lers, (Itep.j: Kmmett The late robliery of the postofTIi
twlck, Henry Nnbor, nt C'ralg, which nrctirred somo tlm
c
mo
Lilierty K. V. Kddy, Walter Fuhr-
man. A. II. (iooiipasture. (Ilep.i: jo.
seph (iarrett, M. C. Drowning, J, V.
.Hineri, (Dem.).
I Lincoln Henry Dege, Frank Outf
ney, AndriiW refers
I Inn. f Ii 1l,w...,
nre living not n single .leatli having p,,,,,.). during the night nf Sunday; October
occurn-d in the family. The chl dren i.,...i. .nkl p. v Mnrklnnd. 11. II. 11. would Incline one to the belief
.MrI--llbetli Cooper, of South viors. A. II. Ilalley, (Itep.); Dave that the "cracksman" has nn especial
Pnknto: Thomas Ulysses and Kdwnnl, n.i.n,,r w. i. iir,, c.,,, n. mp. fondness for Hint offlce. Tim Intn ml,.
nf Holt county; Mrs. Amanda Wnnip- rny )cm.), bery Is the fifth to have occurred
ler, or I at Kin; .Mrs. i ioni iiarnes, oi , .PWi,. West Daniel llurrier. Ceo. since the ofllce was onened for bus).
South Dakota: Mrs. Nellie Nitron, lllmi 1' f'linki lies, in lKfiH on the rnnml-llnn nf
of .biulslana. K!,mnn. II. C. IIiiIkv .'K. O. l'ldllins. the building nf the rallrnnd throuirli
May your days yet be many! (Dem.). the town, and was given the name of
t Minimi Con. II. linniMn-. Im Al. Crolg. in honor nf General Jninm
klrc. Thus. Hunker. (Iteji.); A. W. ''"'!' ,w" consplcuou In tho
VnnCnmp, I, M. JUnton, II. II. Stunrt, "mining ni tnni roan, ami at the timo
(Dem.). VBH president nf tho Hannibal A St.
1 Nmlnwny t.liri lllirsl, Uon. .M. iniirnaii. nnu represented till
I'nlliwW. Jn. I", liunti. i lie,.. It lluirli district In Congress in 18,'iT.fil.
Ilrohnn. Geo. S. Stephenson, U M. The first robbery of the Craig offlco
Derr, (Dem.),
Union, North Geo. Gasklll, Jr.,
.Wm. Troxell, C. II. l.nwronrc, (Itiii.i;
i in. NHiiniiin. t. S. riiiniiNiin. lin
Arrnna The It 1 1 IT.
Mrs. Fannie Wilson, one nf the dear y.,,.n;.n.mn'
old pioneer wives nml mothers or
Southern Holt, died nt her home in
Fnrbes tmvnshlp, nn 1 uesduy, October
17, l'.HII, after a long Illness. She
was a devoted christian woman, a
Catlent, self.sacrillclng mother, a
indly neighbor and loyal friend.
rrior to ner mnrnagn sno was
llifl H, III", lliiifllUKU pn.i Mi. , ...,. Ktnilllli
Mary Fnnnle Clements, and wns born , Tn,r,;J :b r l,ll,er F,l iw. W
In Itlch.nond, Missouri. April I'd, 1841. ,.i"n,,l Soi,inS;iItI i - n n the cr
S' teml. AV WSganiSUll, MISKHUH VHIV
a it a , .A.n t ..... lvn trrnunds and other matters pertaining
iryeTwVfonferV and was parol- to the .ChuUuquE When IWa mee,
Iir January. 1014. 'he was again ing Is called, we hope every man who
irrested Sth. sime charge, and at has signed the guaranty fist will bo
tho February term bo was given two present ana nave a say in wo an air,
Married Sixty Years.
Our old timo friend. John G. toas
ter had a wedding anniversary, Mon
day of last week. It was rare one.
too, ror It was a three-score one. anil
an Incident in life that Is not common.
Undo John and hi wife spent the day
quietly at their home In Mound City,
and it wns reminiscent all day long.
In that nulet home., they talked over
scene of other days, of tho many
friends who had crossed over to the
other shore, and In that nulet nuietl
tude again pledged their lann ana
love, the one for the other.
John u. Keaster was born in Marion
county, Pennsylvania, November 11.
1833, and if spared will reach his 83d
marker on his life road here. When
a child, be went with his parents to
Wayne county. Ohio, thence to Steph
enson countyIllinois, and from there
to Osaire. Mitchell County. .Iowa.
where he was united In marriage to
saral. jane ilrown, October iuibwj.
The couple returned to Illinois, hero
nr. ncasier cast nis nm vuvc, mmi
like Uncle George GasVlll, of vnlon
township, that vote was for John C.
Fremont, -tho first 'presidents! eaadl
date of the Republican party,' and
took place, November 8, 1870, whllo
ii. noguo wns the postmaster. Onlv
a small amount of loot wns sprnml.
whlch consisted nf a small amount of
stamps ami lu.oo in money.
line i I lenrc was postmaster,
cracksman visited the noinAi.
II.. r' . ... '.. . l..-!il...it .... i. ..... i t t...t - ., -
JJSJ' IL'te'T:1 o Arc" Bnnrp' ,t0Ber woy1 too,;rch ,,85ra
...i" t 7.v... i iiVn. i.i.V. i o - s iimi. nomer Keen was round t(
iir; r.:t. ;: .v; ..... . in octnber. isn.-,. i,
- - Liiunty Louri, iwns given two years in the pen ten
Immei alely to th s county, locating I ' . . tlaryKfor the crime. P
on n lunii, some wiriu .nil is souiii oi , --, 7 t, , .1 1 On Jmuirv T. inn.fi. uhll. Phil
It-Alu. U'hnrn thru rnulilml until IKH-'I. i n ,i- m -,. , ....
when tliey Incateil In Forbeti, While
a resident of Fnrbes, Mr. Wilson died.
In 1!07, Mrs. Wilson and her single
auehtcr. M ss l.vdla. mnveil to Ore-
gen, purchasing a home, where they
resided until ivii, wnrn iney return
eil to Forbes, and ,
u'Ai Into tho i-rcnt
Hlio was ine momcr oi seven cnu-
dren
arc:
goo
horn
She
Christian church since 1857. and did
her part in furthering tho cause of her
Master.
Funeral (.crvlccs were held from tho
family home in Forbes, on Friday.
20th instant, und were conducted by
Kldcr II. II, Dawson, of tho Oregon
Christian church, tho Interment being
In the Forbes cemetery, beside her
husband.
. tin-on or wiioni survive, mesa w.-,. ,...v...
i - --- ' i ... . .. .,. . ....... , intr n
Mrs. George Dcvorss. of Dra- ," "'" JV "" "'. ted
. Colorado: r.. oi iuiso, ukio- -
a. and Mis Lydln, at home. '" mc rorcign insurance tax lunu, .
nan ui-i'ii it niviiiiivr ui t.uu
The Hanker Meet.
Groun 3 of tho State Bankers' As
soclation was In session In St Joseph,
last wcck. ine group includes tne
counties of I'latte, Iluchanan, Worth.
Andrew, nonaway, Aicnison, itoit,
Gentry, DcKalb, Clinton, Harrison
and Mercer. One hundred and eighty-
members or tno Association. Among
those in this county who attended the
meeting were: J. A. Williams,
r oroes; r.. w cuvr, miuviiinui u. it.
Poynter. Mgelow; Edward Beaton,
uralg; A. w. vani;amp,roriescue.
John Slmnson and wife are In
Kansas Ciy, where John is studying
dentistry-
i Bom. to Hugh Wilson and wife.
Sunday, October 15, 1016. a girl. Dr;
J. F. Chandler In attendance. ,
somo business. In addition to drawing Thompson was the postmaster, tho
the ludires of tho election. nniee was robbed of $246.
The state auditor was authorised to On January . 10. 1908, whllo Mr.
draw hi warrant In favor of the coun- nompson was in ennrge or the ofllce,
it-Trnfn.nr.r. stiliniim ririnn. for n man representing lilmsc r ns n nost.
mnniinl M trnnil mail alinin ful filml. odlcO Inspector, giving the namn nf
;nen mev return- -:-i' i,- i ,-L.v, r -
liet-R shn nnssefl.due tho county, as provided by tho conuiienceu tne postmaster
unknown world statutes. Thl fund Is apportioned In out nftho postofllco funds, amounting
'-Un0W"-W0:l,,l lllo ninnnft- .. th. .(. fhnnl fnn.l to JCfiO. A party named A. J. Mooro
icr oi seven cnii- -,--"r " ... rrAt.,r-, fh fr.-.
complete nnui, ne was acquit
Sunday, October 15, W. H. Ham-
I. nostmnster. tho offlm fmrA u-na
' H'J'W( IIVIIVU IU IIWI, vuuni;i ,., "-- . ,i 7 " .
Tin u., (nalnioln.l In .Irnu hla I IllOWn. anil thC lOOt nmOUnted Tfk i
. . i .... II I... 1 I t.-iO'l In ilimn, fflrin l n.Hnl.. ...I "
wurrant lor lunua iiu ionsuiiiiait'ii i ... ru.w ,u i'vmiucb, ami
District, No. 1, for 1910, also for Con- " amount oi casn rrom tne sun-
solldatcd District, No. 2, both being Postal sales.
Known as the state aid fund.
State Veterinarian D. F. I.uckcy ill.
cd bis statement to tho effect that Iluzx Saw Did It.
John H. Crist has two grade cattle i.onnlc. tho 20-vcar-oId son of Mr.
and one nuro bred Short-Horn affected nn.i Mr. c.t v, u..i i
...... "-i"iifi i i tno mmscy district, is laying by ror
h.5 colV? "J?"1 ?me?n" a 0Tt vacation, to be put In repair,
nlsh, Godfrey Mart! and John Cottier m tho hopo that within a few weeks!
" "vin ,,.. no may be awe ror duty when cal ed
ages, and to make their report to-the unon.
court. . . . On Frldsv nf lmt weeV. Ortntutv on.
niJJ0hn ?, ?"' n,i V Ffwk? nl 0" ho was running a busz saw, and had
filed petition asking for tho submls-1 .i,,,t ih. w it,.'..... ...
jjon to the voters, at the coming .eUc- tlnued at lively gait on Its women
Hon, praying for tho ePrtrof Uum. 0n the saw frame wa. a stick
.,,, i.uuiii, .im - 0I ynoa. Lonnie, instead of trying to
way Mgineer offlce. The court rcm0ve the stick with his hands, kick
fSAKSJSStSS11. iTul WM hl -d struck tho
- -. - ion ue cau oi nis leg.
He waa taken to the eJrke of Dr. '
MrfMf.nf.llf,n af Pnvaaf ?lrv hut
The Gossett sale at Forbes, held Ing. t the Doctor hating a patient In a
Monday, October 23, 1916, was well " ffpdltlon; to be taken to a St. ,
attended, and good prices ware rfallf Joseph DOMltaj, he turned the Injured
ad, ererrthing selling well aad rapid- man ovr-toT)r. Wood; a visitor, who
ly,- notniog lagging. iam uiMim we "iT "mo HK a wn
ale amoim fiif In. about 9iK. taoatlv I back homeland rcDOtta say he Is do-
; mZ i . . . . i ' .i. - 1 1 . - . il . - u a.. i
caan, yery iiw noea oeiaaj given. iHf wu m cuiua h wikw.
i ' ' SI
V;r,;-, .4m$
