MON
E
ETT
So
JL Jrt
An Advertisement in the TIMES Brings Results
Daily Edition Vol. 9, No. 93
Weekly Edition, Vol 18, No. S
MONETT. MISSOURI, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1916
0
EIGHT- HOUR LEGISLATION
ABLY DISCUSSED
POLITICAL MEETINGS
Large Crowd heard W. S. Banner-'
hassett Wednesday NiM Ably ::
, Discuss This Important Issue
The members of the Eight-Hour
Wilson club held their regular meet
ing last night in the Johnston buil
ding on Broadway. Long before the
hour of meeting the crowd began to
assemble and by seven thirty p. m.
the club room was well filled by a
representative body of Monett
citizens.
After the regular routine of busi
ness had been transacted Mr. W. S.
Blennerhassett was introduced as the
speaker of the evening and had for
his subject the "Eight Hour Day."
Mr. Blennerhassett made a few in
troductory remarks regarding condi
tions under which the labor organiza
tions labored for a numebr of years
during their past history and then
nched into a discussion of his sub-
er.
The speaker went into minute c:c-
ilc in ovvlai'Tli'nfr Kho TPPf-ITT: MPC'fi-
tiations between the railroad compan
ies and their employes and the close
attention given him demonstrated
that his hearers were deeply interest
ed in the subject under discussion.
He told of the part Woodrow Wil
son took in .the settlement of the con
troversy and the interest tne Presi
dent showed in the working men in
volved in the movement. The speak
er was interupted by prolonged ap
plause at the mention of President
Wilson's name and also when he
read articles from President Carter
and Grand Chief Garretson endors
ing Mr. Wilson fo re-election. There
has not been a more logical or en
lightening address delivered in Mo
nett during the present campaign
than was hoard from Mr. Blennerhas
sett last night. His explanation of
President Wilson's sincerity in secur
ing the passing of the Adamson law
would have convinced the most skep
tical that his motive -waa to benefit i
the men whi.r;raLV.mpon tli!i3;:Mli'oads
and not for the purpose of building'
up his own political fences. ;
At the conclusion of Mr. Bienner-
hassett's address., F. P. Sizer,-was in-'
traduced and entertained the crowd
with a splendid speech, launching
sledge hammer blows upon candidate !
Hughes for his criticism of the Ad-1
amson law and the manner in which j
it was passed. Mr. Sizer was fre
quently interrupted with applause
when he praised the present adminis
tration for its splendid record of leg
islation. Remember the Eight-Hour club
Hon. Perl Decker will speak at
Exeter, Friday, October 27, at 1:30
p. m.; at Washburn at 3;30 p. m.; at
Seligman at 7 p. m.
He will speak at Cassville, Satur
day at 1:30 p. m.; at Butterfield at
3:30 and at Purdy at 7:30.
Hon M. E. Benton will speak at
Pioneer, Thursday, Nov. 2, at 2 p.' m.;
at Exeter at 7 p. m.; at Purdy, Fri
day, Nov. 2, at 2 p. m., andf at Selig
man at 7 p. m.
The County Candidates, with other
noted speakers will speak at Monett,
Nov. 4, at 7:30.
I
RIDGLEY and LAYTON HOLLOW j
James Poe is moving his sawmill to
the Walnut Glen farm.
W. J. Crabb is hauling logs to the
saw mill this week.
R. T.' Judd butchered a fat hog
Wednesday.
Herbert Crabb went to Tulsa, Mon
day to visit his grandmother.
Vernie Laney is reported sick this
week.
Mrs. Roy Paris left Wednesday
evening for Springfield, to attend the
teachers association.
S?.m snd Bi'.f Lovell of Cassville,
spent the week with Euliue Rogers.
xne iscmoci'tttic candidates are to
have a speaking at the schoolhouse,
Monday night. s
Several from this neighborhood at
tended the Republican .speaking at
Oklahoma, Thursday night.
There was a good attendance at the
pie supper and about $13 was made
to pay on an organ for the school.
HUGHES LEADS FOREIGN NATIONS
TO BELIEVE U. S. WANTS WAR
i
At this present moment I want to repeat this because
perhaps the country has not realized It enough at this present
moment It Is almost Impossible to do anything positive in the
field of foreign affairs, because foreign nations have been led'
to suppose that there may be a change In our foreign affairs.
Foreign nations have been led to believe that a dominant
element in the Republican Party is in favor of drawing the
United States into the European war, and they have been told,
with abundant evidence, that it is probable that if the Repub
licans succeed we shall enter upon a policy of exploitation of
our neighbors in Mexico.
That is the whole moral of every criticism that I read, and
until the people of the United States have spoken, it is extremely
difficult to come to any definite conclusion about anything that
touches our relations either to Europe or to Mexico. I myself
do not doubt the result, but there are some who affect to doubt
it. From President Wilson's Speech at Shadow Lnwu, N. J.,
Oct. 14.
PRAIRIE VIEW
FLAT CREEK ITEMS
i
sickness along ttie Creek j
Mr. and Mrs.. D. M. Hunnell and
family visited last Sunday with Mr.
and Hunnell's father and mother
i near Clarkson.
Mr. and Mrs. T. H. Haggard were
shopping in Monett, Monday.
Paul McEnany called on Mr. and
Mrs. E. R. Russell, Monday evening.
Mrs. Fannie Haggard visited her
daughter, Mrs. Will Mackey, Satur
day and Sunday.
E. R. Russell was a Peirce City
visitor last Wednesday.
Mrs. Katie Russell and daughter,
Edwina visited Mrs. Cora Mackey, j
Monday evening. i
The Ladies Aid society of Mt. Ol
ive rhurc.h. met last week with Mrs. !
Fred Lester and will meet this week " the opera hail luesaay nigni. a
with Mrs. Messley. Everybody come large crowd of men was present,
and brine vour needle and thread as ! Mr. McNatt was at Washburn one
we are e-oinir to quilt. day last week
PURDY
Mrs. Cad Moore went to Monett,
Tuesday. . '
' Mrs. G. M. Patterson and children
returned, Sunday after a two weeks'
visit at Washburn and Seligman.
Joe Beaver, of Seligman, is visiting
(lis brother Mose, who is quite sick.
Rev. Brown went to Verona, Sun
day. Miss Mae Williams spent Sunday
in Monett.
Mr. and Mrs. Harrison Crawford
and baby, of Oklahoma, are visiting
relatives and friends in- our city this
week.
Boyd Campbell went to Monett
Monday and accepted a position at
the depot.
The Republican candidates spoke
Many people along the Flat Creek
telephone line were made sad to re-
fciome sickness along tfie creeK i ceive Hie news that their neignpor
now. and loving fiiend, Mrs. Dora "Van
We had a fine rain in this locality. , Hook" Lipe had died that day, Oct.
; Uu:t week. It was badly needed. ! 15, at the home of her brother-iiir
Joe Mathis and wile of McDowell, j aWj will Lipe in Monett. She was
! attended Sunday School at Cedar j born on the farm now owned by O.
! Biuff Sunday. j p. Miirifiv,' down Flat Creek five j
Floyd Bennett, son of John ben-:!njes north of Cassville; lived there 1
until married to Geo. D. Lipe, then
spent most of her married life near
McDowell, on Flat Creek. In her
Charles Edward, the little son of
Mr. and Mrs. Edward Gaydou who,
'has been ill for a week is not so well
today.
Mr. and Mrs. E. R. Russell and
family spent Saturday with Mrs. Rus
sell's mother, Mrs. Gaydou.
W. R. Russell is having his resi
dence north of town treated to a new
Mrs. Rains is able to be up again
after a lingering spell of typhoid
fever.
Mr. and Mrs. Percy Johnson and
baby, of Monett, visited the latter's
parents, Mr. and Mrs. Wm. Boucher,
Sunday.
Miss Xannie Hamilton, one of our
teachers, visited home folks at Wash-
nctt, who has been with the Craw
ford show for SDine time, came home
last week. We were ail glad to see
him icUim, especially seme of the
When you have an aehey, stretchy
feeling and yon. the dull, tired and dis
couraged, it i3 a sign of approaching
malaria or chills, ioii should at
quickly to ward 01'f an attack. HER
BINE offers you the help you r.ecd. It
destroys the malarial germ, drives out
all impurities and makes you feel
bright, vigorous ar.il cheerful. Price
50c". Sold by the Corner Pharmacy.
I W. R. Truhitte has purchased a
J motor track to use in hauling for his
store.
j Nute Smith and wife have a very
! sick baby. Tpe neighbors are very
I anxious to see it get better,
j John Van Hook and family of
! Kansas arc visiting in this vicinity
j for a few days.
Ma
death, not only will her husband an-u
iher little children, father and mother,
brother and sister, miss, her but she
will be sadly, missed by her loving
neighbors. She was a devoted wife,
a loving and kind mother and daugh
ter. Nothing but the loving hand
that has removed her can reconcile
coat of paint and is also making other . bum Saturday ana bumiay.
improvements. .! Mrs. Bob Wilson went to Granby
Mrs. Fannie Durrington was shop- 1 last week.
ping in Monett, Saturday. j
A large gathering of friends and :
relatives attended the funeral of
Grandma Johnson at Mt. Olive last
Friday. Mrs. Johnson was the moth
er of Mrs. Andrew Cogzill. Mrs. Cog
zill has the sympathy of a host of
friends in her sad bereavement.
Miss Fay Hunnell spent Tuesday
Jas. M. King, Democratic candi
date for coroner, is of ripe age and
has had practical experience in the
conduct of this office. He desires
the support of every voter in Bar
ry county. Give him your vote. U.
her relatives and many friends to her Arthur gtebler an(
absence. While she has gone irom.
M;h.e conflicts, 'sorrows and pleasures
Wo understand Diueli Marian i , - t, w Kilfi w;i i;vo j the hearts
going to farm witn Dave aiuer me
covung year.
Floyd Hemphill
purchased Loren ; ;ay
of those who know her best. Some
;n the shades of death hover
children, Harold and Edna iiutir ot
New Site spent last Sunday visiting
Mrs. Stebler's grandmother, Mrs.
Gavdou.
POLLY ANNA.
If your child is pale and sickly,
picks" at the nose, starts in the sleep
and grinds the teeth while sleeping, it
is a sure Mgn of worm-. A remedy
fnr these parasites will be found in
WHITE'S CREAM VERMIFUGE. It
not only clears out the worms, but it
restores health and ehcerfalnass. 23
per bottle. Sold by the Corner Phar
macy. (Adv.
CLOTHING
A New -Store
Phone 625
CLOTHING
AND A HOUSE FULL OF NEW APPAREL FOR MEN AND BOYS.
GALLOWAY & MANSFIELD
"The Boys with the Duds."
420 Broadway
SHOES
SHOES
GLOVES GLOVES GLOVES
Dress Gloves, Work Gloves, Auto
Gloves, lined or unlined at Gulick's.
meets again Saturday night, Oct. 28.
There will be speaking again on that
date and the ladies are invited to at
tend the meetings. ,
H.ni move to it U round her loved ones, left on earth, Don't forget the dance at the
! , 1 U,.l,.,nrl tl,om it i VTl- .,11 1,-11 Tlmvcrlm. nio4it QOfft
and a ueatii iuijifi ucvr.uvii mv,... "jiucnw-n it.-i, t Times
is hoped there will be an eternal re- ; --
. f M - 4-1-- I 111111 MMMMT1TM
V.1U0H 01 this ianray ill uie ncVVn ,
land far, far away.
REPUBLICAN SPEAKING
I Buy Life Insur
ance This Way
0
0
O
15
Consider first-the maximum proportion of your salary available
for the purchase of Life Insurance; Second, the minimum income
that, in decency and self-respect, you would provide for your
wife when you are gone.
Necessarily, the older a man is wfhen he buys Life Insurance the
smaller the income his family will receive from the Life Insur
ance he can afford to buy.
Young men especially, between the ages of 20 and 30, should
consider this most carefully. Buy Life Insurance Big, right now,
when the proportion of your income available for the purchase of
Life Insurance is large, and the premium rate is low.
A Premium Savings Account makes Life Insurance easy to buy.
TALK TO A LIFE INSURANCE MAN ABOUT THIS TODAY.
4
8
9
f
Hemphiii's farm and
soon.
i Thurman Smiiih, Mack Oaks, ana
: John Van Hook landed quite a nice
lot of fish last Saturday, also Thur-
man is a pretty good shot. He says
; to the other boys, "I will show you
how to kill ducks flying." So he;
i threw it up and it flew. Now a bird j The date on which the Republican
i in the hand is worth two in the bush ! county candidates to have spoken
j Columbus- Linn and his brother, ' in Monett, has been changed
! Omer of Monett, visited Hugh Linn, owing to the hall being engaged for
Saturday and Sunday. j Saturday night. I he meeting win De
Albert Burkhart and family of Mo- j held one night next week. Date not
nett, visited relatives in this vicinity yet made.
Sunday. We are always glad to see
them as Albert used to be a. merchant j John Boucher, of Purdy and Miss
in this neighborhood and was very ac- , Gladys Price went to Carthage,
j commodating to his customei'S. j Thursday morning.
O P. Brite and Jcjim Martin went
!!t riivillr-. Wednesday on business.! BOYS' SUITS We carry the best
Walter Campbell and family, of : line of Boys' Clothes in America,
near Purdy, visited in this locality, j The Best Ever Suits, Guaranteed
Saturday night and Sunday. ; every way. Bring in the boys We
A protracted meeting is being con- do the rest Gulicks.
ducted by Rev. Henson and Rev. ;
ir., -f TirviPw church. Will ! Mrs. C. H. Ring, Mrs. James Mans-
ukn, nt;m, this wvk. f'eld. Mrs.
pi UMCtUljr v-" "
Democratic candidates for the
county offices made their announce
ments at the Sparks school
M. E. Loutzenhiser, candidate for
Judge of the Western District, is a
man well qualified for the position.
H is not sectional itv his views and
will work for the best interests
entire county. An efficient official
is needed to get the county business
in working condition. Give him your
support. tl.
Tvnewriter natier bv the box the
L. H. Gabriel and Mrs.
B. P. McCaslin motored to Mount
Vemon, Thursday, to attend a meet-
house ' ing f Federated clubs.
1 THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK
CARL W.
WILLIS W
PHILJ.
LEHNHARD
HKES
CAS11IFK V. PRES.
i Saturday night. A very large crowa ;
Was present. A large number of peo- ,
pie had to stand up. It was a very j
enthusiastic meeting. The candidates j
were introduced by O. P. Brite. j
Pie supper at Cedar Bluff next j
Saturday night. Come and don't for-!
get to bring that pie. j
Famous Dodson and family who j
now live southwest of Cassville, spent 1
Saturday night and Sunday with R.
M. C. Oakes and family.
Wes Hilton's two children have
been on the sick list with fever.
I have just unloaded a car of
LYONS BEST
Hard Wheat Flour and Feed
See me for prices on 500 lb. lots.
A useful cooking utensil given with
each 48 lb. sack.
MATTHEW'S GROCERY
Phone 444. Corner Fifth and Bond.
The Salzer Milling Company
Manufactures the Best Soft Wheat Flour
In this part of the country
Give us a trial and by so doing patronize patronize home industry
'ANNO UN C E ME NT
In the very near future the magnificant new home of the Callaway furniture store will be filled with the most completel-ine of new patternsfin
furniture, draperies arid floor coverings ever before shown in Monett and thrown open for public inspection. ,
For this unusual opening I have spent considerable time in the best furniture markets of this country selecting with care at the lowest possible
prices several carloads of the best and latest patterns in furniture, rugs and draperies.
I assure you that if you wait for this showing of splended new things in home furnishings you will feel amply repaid.
BOB CALLAWAY.
