THE BARRE BAILY TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 191.
BAMtE, VERMONT, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1910.
TRICE, ONE CENT.
.ENCIRCLING
FORT VAUX
AN ABLE CABINET
PROMISED BY HUGHES
French Made Progress Both
West and South of
Fortress
GERMAN ARTILLERY
TURNS ON DOUAUMONT
. fin Snmmp Front.. fiPrman
Ammunition Depot Was
Destroyed
Paris, Oct. 27. French troops made
further progress last night in the Ver
dun region, advancing west and south
of the fortress of V'aux, according to the
war oflice. One hundred Germans were
taken prisoners.. Herman artillery, the
Statement adds, is violently bombarding
Chenois wood and Fort Douaumont,
which were captured by the French in
the surprise attack of Tuesday night.
In the region of the, river Somme last
tiight French artillery destroyed a Ger
man munition depot near Ablaincourt.
Bad weather is hindering the military
operations on various fronts in Mace
donia, the, war oflice says.
He Also Declared in Boston Last Night
That if Elected He Would Not Be
Swerved by Foreign Influence.
Boston, Oct. 27. Charles E. Hughes
last night told an audience which filled
Boston's big arena that he proposed t
be an American president, if elected, un-
swerved by any suggestion of foreign in
fluence. "And t propose," he added, "that if I
am elected we shall have the ablest cab
inet that this country can supply."
Mr. Hughes also declared that he
would maintain American rights ami
that he had "absolutely no patience
whatever with the idea that an Amer
ican citizen, followinar his lawful pur
suits, in any part of the world, should
be left unprotected by the country from
which he came."
"I am amazed," Mr. Hughes said, "that
it is suecestod that a proper attitude Is
that the policy of protection should not
be maintained because it threatens our
peace.
'Is it possible that any suen notion
should obtain in the shadow of Bunker
Hill," he asked.
The audience rose, and, waving thous
and of American flags, shouted in an
swer:
"No."
GERMANS LOST
9 nflOTRnVflBQ-
u iiiuinuiuiiU)
- BRITISH, ONE
A Daring Raid on British
Cross-Channel Service Re
sulted in the Sinking of
One Empty Transport, the
Queen, According to the
British Admiralty
CALEF GAVE $5,000 CHECK.
BUT ALL OF HER CREW
MANAGED TO ESCAPE
TALK OF THE TOWN
BIG FRENCH ATTACK
WAS PUT DOWN
BY GERMANS
Official Statement from Berlin Tells
Defeat of French on South Side
4
of the Somme.
of
Berlin, via wireless, Oct. 27. On the
south bank of the river Komme last
night, German artillery fire against the
French trenches In the sector of Freisnes,
Mazancourt and C'haulnes held down a
strong attack which was under prepara
tion, says a German official statement
to-day.
North of the Somme last night the
only engagements were those of rccon-
rioitering detachments. French forces at
noon yesterday attacked German posi
tions to the east of Douaumont fort in
the region of Verdun, but were complete
ly repulsed with heavy losses, the state
went says.
In Dobrudja, Field Marshal Von Maek-
ensen's forces, pursuing the retreating
Russian-Rumanian armies, have reached
the district of Hirsova, approximately 40
miles north of Tehernavoda.
Russian troops in the district west of
Lutsk in Volhynia made a midnight at
tack on Austro-German lines in the Kise
lin sector after prolonged military prepa
rations. "The attack," the war office
Bays, "broke down before our defensive
entanglements."
TALK OF THE TOWN
H. F. Cutler of Jefferson street left last
flight for Boston, where he will spend
eeveral days on business.
Friends of Dr. O. E. Barr, who has
been confined to his home on Cottage
street for several days, will be glad to
leant that his condition is improving
daily.
Mr. anl Mrs. Kenneth Silloway of Bur
lington arrived in Harre to-day and will
visit friends on .South Main street for
several days.
f James Rothnie of Seminary street and
Cliarles Scott of Long street will leave
Ijhe city this evening for Detroit, Mich.,
where they have secured employment in
an automobile factory.
. , To-night at 7:30 o'clock committees
appointed to arrange for the Goose
Green-SquRg Holler clash and niasquer
nde jollification in Hovvland hall next
V "Wednesday evening and all other persons
interested in the success of this play
ground benefit are to meet in manufac
turers' hall. It is earnestly requested
that all committees be represented, as
there is work to be done. It was an
nounced to-day that Carroll's orchestra
lias been engaged to play for the dancing
and a number of other features equally
engaging will be uncorked by the general
committee from time to time.
A. E. Farr, a WnHsfield nimrod, came
to town last night with a big black
bear which he brought down in the
woods of Fayston. The animal weighed
2.10 pounds and is now the property of
Smith & Cumings, who are exhibiting
bruin in one of their display windows
on Main street. Mr. Farr came to grips
with his quarry, figuratively speaking,
after a long chase and two bullets from a
high power rifle were necessary to end
his career in the big woods. There is a
comfortable bounty on bears and as the
pelt is nearly prime the hunter will real
ize a snug little sum from his day in the
open. Also lovers of bear stock will have
an opportunity to satisfy their taste.
Sixteen veterans of the Spanish-American
war, members bf the company which
went forth from Barre to do battle for
the flag, were enjoyably entertained at
the home of Dr. .1. W. Jackson on So. Main
ft. last night. The company members wel
comed back into the fold Capt. E. .T. Bad
ger, who has been absent from the city
several years; J. Wallace Grady, who
tailored in Mexico City until he came
north a year ago fur hi health, and Fred
Gokey of Fast Muntpelier, a member of
the ambulance corps, who attended his
first reunion of the Company E boys in
years. Then there was Private Alfred
Edwards of the 1st Vermont regiment,
who spent most of his summer on the Rio
Grande. Mr. Grady gave a graphic de-J
ecnption of what ne saw and heard dur
ing a part of the Mexican turmoil and
Private Edwards talked interestingly of
his experiences on the border, concluding
liis contribution to the impromptu pro
pram with a number of stirring ong.
Afterward Dr. Jackson served a substan
tial spaghetti supper. Tentative plana
were discussed for the annual fall reunion
of Barre, Montpelier and Northfield vet
erans. 'Fraternal greetings were received
from veteran in ottn-r towns and while
no definite arrangements were made it is
Mrs. Mary Knight of Graniteville was
brought to the City hospital to-day for
treatment.
Miss Helene Browne of North Main
street haa commenced work in the office
of Dr. Arthur C. Foster.
Mrs. Virginia Richards of Averill street
left last night for Baltimore, Md., where
she will reside in the future.
Misg Lillian Bcattie of Brook street
left last night for Jackson, Mich., where
she will make an extended visit cover
ing a period of about three or four
months at the home of her sister, Mrs.
Charles Masson, who recently moved
to Jackson. '
The Democratic, city committee have
opened headquarters in the Wood block,
room 5 (over F. D. Ladd Co. store), and
will be pleased to meet the friends and
supporters of candidate for citv represen
tative, J. B. Reanlon. Room always
open. Call at any time.
The auction sale conducted by D. A.
Perry yesterday afternoon at Woodbury,
the property consisting of the sawmill
and farm owned by Herman Carr, was
well attended and good prices prevailed
throughout the afternoon. Hay sold at
$10 a ton, while sawed lumber and per
sonal property brought very satisfactory
prices. The sawmill was sold to Harry
Daniels of East Montpelier for $1,105.
Mrs. William H. Olliver of 144 Elm
street was pleasantly surprised last even
ing when about 20 of her friends and
relatives gathered at her home to help
celebrate her birthday. TJie guests were
very pleasantly entertained throughout
the evening. At a late hour the even
ing's entertainment was ended with a
lunch consisting of fruit, cake, wafers
and hot chocolate. On departing, the
guests presented Mrs. Olliver many beau
tiful and useful gifts with which to re
member the day.
Through the Hardwick agent, G. ,1. Per
kins, of the D. A. Perry Real Estate
agency of this city, was sold the property
owned by John Stevens, commonly known
as the Stevens farm, with the stock anil
tools to John Rowell of Hardwick, who
took possession of the place last Tuesday.
The sale includes all the stock and per
sonal property that is located on the
farm. Mr. Kowell purchases the property
with the intentions of making a home.
Through the same agency Mr. Stevens
buys the farm in lower Cabot village
known as the Harvey Dow place and
owned by L. A. Farrington, formerly of
Williamstown. Mr. Stevens will take
possession of the property within a few
days. The deal involves about $8,000.
At a gathering of Beacon street people
last'evening someone suggested a straw
vote on the presidential election and
even though the guests were pretty well
occupied in making their farewells to a
couple of neighbors who are to leave for
the sunny south to-night, the suggestion
found ready favor and balloting was
soon under way. Most of the voters
live on Beacon street and as none of the
campaign speakers of national promi
nence in any party have made speeches
mat vicinage mis year, me straw
The British Torpedo Boat
Destroyer Nubian Was
Forced to Run Aground
After Being .Torpedoed
Only Nine of the Crew of
the Fliert Destroyer Were
Saved
London, Oct. 27. Ten torpedo boat de
stroyers attempted to raid the British
cross-channel transport service last night,
but the attempt failed, says an official
statement of the British admiralty to
day. Two German destroyers were sunk
and the others were driven off. The Ger
man destroyers succeeded in sinking one
empty transport, the Queen, but all the
crew were saved.
One British torpedo boat destroyer, the
Fliert, is missing, and another destroyer,
the Nubian, was disabled by a torpedo
and ran aground. Nine members of the
crew of the Fliert were saved.
RUSSIANS LOSE
BATTLE ON SHARA
Forced Back by Germans, Petrograd Ad
mits Rumanians Are Being
Forced Back.
Petrograd, via London, Oct. 27. Al
though offering a stubborn resistance to
the German, Bulgarian and Turkish Tnilinin. tronsurer. Mn.. Calef ' ..beck for
To Randolph Sanatorium TYhen $5,000
More Was Subacribed.
Ira- C. Calef'a latest beneficence is to
the Randolph sanatorium, ,the Washing
ton man having tendered his check for
$5,000 on the completion of the stipuht
tion that the friends of the institution
raise $5,000 more to mutch his offer. The
latter sum was more than subscribed,
the exact amount being f 5,(110. The for
mal transfer of the uilef money was
made la-st week Thursday, and the Ran
dolph Herald and News gives the follow
ing account of the affair:
"Notwithstanding rain and muddy
roads, Mr. Ira C. Calef of Washington
kept his appointment and motored here
last Thursday, accompanied by several
friends. J he party were guests at .
II. Gladding's, who was a boyhood friend
of Mr. Calef.
"In the afternoon, at Mr. Gladding's
invitation, several of the directors of the
Randolph sanatorium, with their wives,
and members of the soliciting committee
of the sanatorium aid, with their hus
bands, had the opportunity of meeting
Mr. Calef and expressing personally their
gratification for his handsome gift to the
institution. There was a little ceremony
with Mr. Gladding presiding and L. B.
Johnson speaking for the interested
friends of the sanatorium. Others pres
ent spoke informally.
"Mr. (Ief was prevailed on to say a
word. He is a fine type of the well-
preserved New Englander. Almost 89
years old, he would pass for'fifteen years
younger. His figure i erect and well
rounded. He has a clear eye and his
movements are still quick. Mentally,
one can see that ho is very alert. Refer
ring to the gift he said he was parting
with nothing he could not well spare.
He said he was surprised and pleased
that the amount to be raised aside from
his tender had been so quickly secured.
He felt that iniAmuch as he had made
his money from the public, he owed it
to the public to return in such ways as
these what he could afford.
"Upon being urged, Mr. Calef sketched
to some extent his business career and
alluded with evident pleasure to the
large sums he has bestowed on other
worthy causes. He was left fatherless at
16, one of eleven children, the oldest 18
They had to scatter. He chopped wood
at 25 cents a eorit and to. pay his board
tended two hundred sheep until, he had
enough money to take him to Boston.
There he worked over five vears and
saved about $1,000. With this he went
into the market business on his own ac
count. Iatcr he engaged in the same
line in New York and Chicago. Then
he became a pork packer in Iowa, buying
large numbers of hogs. Mr. Calef retired
in 1881, omiing back to Washington,
t., to look out for his mother, who
was infirm. He does not call it he has
been active since, though one can scarce
ly imagine him at rest. For many years
he has bepn on the investment commit
tee of Goddard seminary and has volun
tarily guaranteed all securities that he
has recommended.
Mr. Gladding tendered to Mrs. B. D.
BAKER CHARGE
INVESTIGATED
CLAN FAIR IN FULL SWING.
Secretary of War Told of
Plot Against Ameri
can Interests
HOPE MEXICAN ATTACK
WILL BE WARDED OFF
But American Commanders
Have Been Warned to
Be on Guard
voters sav they were not biased bv
spread-eagle oratory in registering their
preferences. The vote: Woodrow Wil-
forces attacking Dobrudja, the Russians
and Rumanians, according to to-day s of
fieial statement, are retiring to the north
ot the line between Hirsova and Casap
keui. This line is approximately between
40 and (HI miles north of the Tchernavo-da-Constanza
railroad line. The state
ment adds that the forces of the central
powers and their allies are continuing
their attack along the entire front in
Dobrudja.
Rumanian troops operating on the
western frontier at Moldavia have cap
tured the Transylvanian village of Balan
and Piatraotkul heights, according to the
statement, which says that fierce fighting
is continuing on both banks of the Jiul
river.
German forces yesterday launched an
attack against Russian positions on the
western bank of the river Shara in the
region of Goldovitchi and forced the re
tirement of the Russians to the eastern
name ot tne river, the statement announces.
$.i,00O. which had been given him when
the list of pledged subscriptions aggre
gating $3,610 had been furnished Mr.
Calef, proving the good faith of the san
atorium's nearby friends. These subscrip
tions are now payable and .the fund will
be used as soon as conditions permit for
building and improvement operations.
Certificates of stock are to be issued to
those subscribing the price of one share,
$25, or more."
BARN DESTROYED.
MORE SMALL FIRES
LEAD TO SUSPICION
OF INCENDIARISM
Farnham, Quebec, Was Under Police Pro
tection Last Night, Following the
Great Fire in Hospital.
Farnham, Que., Oct. 27. The ruins
ol ft. .hiizabctu s hospital, which was
son, 24; Charles Evans Hughes, 7; Eu-1 destroyed by fire yesterday, had cooled
gene V. Debs, 1; present but not voting, i sufficiently to-day to permit of a search
i; scattering, i. jn ancrnpi. 10 muse: tor bodies ot the Urey nuns who con
ducted the institution. It is believed
that the death list will stand at nineteen,
five of them being children. The town
was under police guard during the night
as the result of several small fires, which
led to suspicion that incendaries were at
work.
the various departments.
SWANT0N CHILD A VICTIM.
the re-election of Mr. Wilson unanimous
was frustrated by a coalition of the
Hughes and scattering forces.
Among the guests arriving at Hotel
Barre last night and this morning were
the following people: R. D. Taft of Wal
lingford, Mr. and Mrs. J. H. Faught of
Lakeport, N. H., Mr. and Mrs. P. R. Hart
well of St. Jobnsbury, P. M. Fitch of St.
Johnsburv, Mr. and Mrs. .1. W. Adams,
H. A. Milne of Burlington, II. J. Markolf
of Rutland, Mr. and Mrs. R. D. Spear of
Burlington, J. E. Tinker and W. H. Cov
ell of Danville, Mr. and Mrs. F. M. Schif
fenhauer of Cambridge, Mass., W. C.
Ramsey of Burlington, W. E. Edwards of
Cambridge, L. E. Butler of St. Albans,
H. C. McN'all of Milton, R. V. Van Horn
of Clifton Forge, Va., and W. W. Tipple
of Milford, Del., S. J. Hunter of Spring
field, O. B. Marron of Portsmouth. N. H.,
Harry H. Lane of Springfield, M. J. Daley
of Burlington, H. D. Gibson and Ben
Wood of Northfield, A. P. Hoyt of Laco
nia, N. H., A. W. Payne of "Bethel and
C. A. Gnippen of Detroit, Mich.
Earmarks of vandalism perpetrated in
the Batchelder's meadow plant of McDon
nell & Sons were discernible this morning
when the main shed was opened for bus
iness. Sometime during the night the
shed was entered by a person unknown, j
who proceeded to use a chisel on a large .
die, which had been under the hammer J
nearly six months, l hree corners were
chipped off, but a delicate tracery design
was left intact. The vandal did not ie
a hammer, but contented himself with
chiselling away the corners. Night
Watchman John Paul visited the plant
ai ttiA rinilar mil nH thrmifyti tKj, m .1 -
ow and at no time during his stay in the bert . IVkcn and was fined $50 and
shed did he see anv signs of the night ooate, amounting to fuo.So. The fine was
This morning police headquar-' suspended upon condition that the costs
But Farmhouse Saved After Much Ef
fort. Middlebury, Oct. 27. The barn at the
rear of the home of Samuel Bowles was
destroyed by fire early yesterday morn
ing. Ihe building was a mass of flames
when discovered by Thomas Burns, who
was returning bv auto from Rutland.
The hou6o caught several times, but was
saved by the hard work of the firemen.
Rain, and a heavy wind blowing in a
direction away from the surrounding
houses, prevented a serious fire.
Mr. Bowles and his family were not
awakened until the crowd, summoned by
the alarm, arrived on the scene. Mr.
Bowles' loss will be several hundreds of
dollars as the contents of the barn in
cluded hay and farming tools, on which
there was no insurance. The barn was
owned by Isaac L. Rogers, who carried a
small insurance. The origin of the fire
is unknown.
Washington, D. C, Oct. 27. Govern
ment officials hoped to-day that the pub
lication of Secretary Baker's statcmen
that the war department had received
word that another Mexican bandit attac
on the American border of troops ha
been planned by administration enemies
would cause the abandonment of the
plot.
Commanders of American forces have
been warned, however, and were expected
to take extra precautions against at
tacks which the war department's infor
ma tain indicated would occur before elec
tion. The department of justice is in
vestigating the reports in an effort to
prosecute any who may be directing the
plot from the American side.
War and state department officials re
fused to-day to disclose the source or the
specific nature of the information on
which Secretary Baker issued his state
ment. Both Lansing and Baker laid
stress upon the statement that no con
sideration of domestic politics led to the
issuing of the announcement that the
plot had been discovered.
secretary Linker s statement was as
follows:
"The war department has received
definite information, confirmed from oth
er sources, that enemies of the admin
istration's policy toward Mexico, in co
operation with Villa or other bandits in
Mexico, have arranged a spectacular at
tack to be made either upon some part
of the American forces or upon some
American cmimunity on the border be
tween now and the date of the election,
for the purpose of turning the tide of
sentiment against the policy which the
administration has adopted for the pro
tection of the border.
It is significant in this connection
that both the state and war departments
were advised that, the bandit forces op
erating at the present time in Mexico
are being paid in silver coin.
r nil particulars have been transmit
ted to General Funston and General
Pershing. All American forces are, there
fore, forewarned and in readiness for
such an attack."
CAUGHT NEAR RICHMOND.
WOMAN GETS INSURANCE.
Had Sued Vermont Mutual Fire Insur
ance Co.
Rutland, Oct. 27. The jury in the ca.se
of Mrs. Mary L. Brown of Rutland vs.
the Vermont Mutual Fire Insurance Co.
of Montpelier to recover something less
Many of the nuns, it was said, risked i than $2,000 insurance on a house and
their lives in efforts to save patients i barn belonging to the plaintiff in the
and children entrapped in the hospital. I town of Mendon "over the notch" burned
Fanned by a strong breeze, the flames, I in October, 1015, brought in a verdict of
unchecked by the small jets of water the '$1,363 for Mrs. Brown in Rutland county
firemen were able to throw on them, joourt yesterday afternoon,
swept through the building with light- The "next case up for trial, which was
ning speed, cutting off the inmates in, taken up this afternoon, is that of Nel-
Four Boys Who Departed Unceremo
niously from Vergennes'.
Vergennes authorities and officials 4)f
the state industrial school in that town
kept the Barre wire working overtime
last night while seeking clues that might
assist them in overtaking four boys who
broke, away from the school yesterday
and were said to have made their get
away in a .Mitchell touring car. roiice
headquarters got a message from Ver
gennes before midnight, the Barre officers
being asked to be on the lookout for the
quartet, as it was alleged that two of
the lads were George Troup and Robert
Donald of this city. The Vergennes of
ficers suspected that the auto squad
might head for this side of the state and
possibly for Barre. It was said that the
youths left the industrial school Thurs
day morning and procured a Mitchell
touring car, license number 8179, which
is the property of G. W. and H. E. Bo
dette of Vergennes, according to the au
tomobile registry.
This afternoon word came that the of
ficers from the Vergennes institution had
overtaken the motoring quartet north of
Richmond, the party having stopped the
car to fill the radiator. The boys were
returned to Vergennes at once.
Annual Festivities Being Held in How
land Hall.
Clan Gordon, No. 12, 0. S. C, and the
ladies' auxiliary opened their annual
joint fair in Howland hall last evening
under circumstances that point to a suc
cessful three nights' bazaar. The crowd
on the opening night- wus even larger
than l(ad been expected, but there was
plenty of room and an abundance of the
good things that people purchase and use
on such occasions. National colors and
brilliantly tinted crepe festoons figured
in an attractive decorative scheme that
embraced an array of booths nt the north
end of the hall. It was the same old
Clan Gordon fair, a merrymaking time
for all, with a number of new kinks and
an "entire change of program" in the
way of entertainment.
There will be another reel of perform
ing to-morrow evening and if the ama
teur thespians who are to tread the
boards 01 the second evening are half as
proficient as the participants in -A Jack
for Every Jill" were last night, their fu
ture is assured. "A Jack for Every Jill"
is a taking little farce that offers un
limited opportunities for funmaking.
Most of them the opportunities were
embraced. There was dancing with mu-1
sic by Carroll's orchestra and it may be
of interest to note that the same musi
cians have been retained to do business at
the same stand to-morrow evening and
again Saturday evening. There were
apron booths, a fancy booth and booths
devoted to confectionery wares and kitch
en articles. Sportively inclined persons
had it out with fate or fortune at the
rifle range, at the dart range, or along
the marge of the fish pond.
Plaudits were generously given while
the farce was being presented and be
cause the parts were uniformly well tak
en, credit must lie assigned to the aggre
gate and not to the individuals. The cast
was framed thuswise: "Dr. Robinson,
who got roped in. William Hurry;
Charles Gushington." who loves all the
pretty girls, Roy McDonald; "Fred Fitz,"
who adores fanny, Grover Kenenck;
Benj. Harrison Jones," who is a little
crippled up, Ernest Tremblay; ""Mrs.
Price," a widow, ready for No. 2, Rose
Inglis; "Miss Matilda Boggs," who just
oves the dear men, Florence Tremblay;
Fannie Price," engaged to Fred, Miss
Clsie McDonald; "Rosa," who married
'harlie to "get rid of him," Miss Edith
Watson.
Barry Henrv and Cliarles G. Barr crit
ically examined the records at the gun
range and were the arbiters when it came
to deciding just who was who and who
wasn't. Bv the same sign G. C. Cormaek
nd William Black did guard duty at the
art range and William Leith and Don
Id F. Mc.Leod were assigned to the fish
pond. Mrs. Chesser and Mrs. Gauld pre
sided over the apron booths and the fancy
booth was in charge of Mrs. Clubb and
Mrs. Patterson. Candy merchants were
Mrs. Adams and Mrs. MacDonald and the
itchen ware was in chargj of Mrs. Fras-
er, Mrs. Taylor and Mrs. Lament. Mrs.
izzie M. Wood and Mrs. Christie man
aged the dancincr.
This evenmir the feature of tne
pre-terpsichorean festival will be a play
let, "The Queen o' the May," and the
parts have been assigned as follows:
Florence," the teacher, .Miss Jr.ctith Wat
son; "frertencK. tier suitor, iirorge
Stewart; "Queen." Miss Gladys Rhind;
Maids of Honor," Misses Jeannie Milne.
lazel Stewart, Ruth Armstrong, Mabel
tenhen. Marion Robertson and Margar-
t Farrar; herald, Gilbert Phillips; color-
bearer, Gilbert Robertson; flower girls,
Dorothv Phillips, Rosie Clubb, Mary
lubb, Edith Cooper, Clara Gibson end
iolet Milne; chorus, 1.) children.
The joint committee for the fair is
made up as follows: Oncf William
urrv. Sec. Alex Edward. Treas. Donald
M. McLeod, Roy McDonald, Robert Pat
terson, jr., floor aides, Barry P. Henry,
G. Barr, George C Cormaek. William
Black, William Leith and Donald .F. Mc-
eod, Mrs. John Chesser, Mrs. .lames
mild. Mrs. James Clubb, Mrs. Patterson,
Mrs. Adams, Mrs. MacDonald. Mrs. James
Lamont, Mrs. Fraser, Mrs. Taylor. .Mrs.
Lizzie M. Wood, Mrs.. George Cormaek,
Miss Celia Dowers, Mrs. Hugh Christie,
Mrs. John Dowers, Mrs. George C. Cor
maek and Mrs. John Angus and Mrs. Rob
ert Inglis, in charge at the door.
EXPERTS CALL
WOMAN SANE
At Hearing for Release of
Mildred Brewster, Who
Killed Annie Wheeler
HAS BEEN IN ASYLU'
NEARLY 20 YF.-..S
She Was Found y V Guilty
by Reap 0 of
Insanl.y
CAR PLUNGED OFF IRON.
TALK OF THE TOWN
Bernard Phoenix, Aged 5, Killed at Farn
ham, Que, Fire.
Swanton, Oct. 27. Among the victims
of the fire at Farnham, Que., yesterday
morning was Bernard Phrnix, the five-year-old
son of Oliver Phrpnix of this
town. It was reported that the mother
of L. M. Papeneau was among the miss
ing, but it was learned later that she was
saved and was taken to a hospital.
son Johnson of Pittsfield against Charles
Doubleday of Sherburne, a negligence
action, in which Johnson seeks to recov
er damages of $1,500 for injuries sus
tained when, it is alleged, the flooring
in the Doubledav sawmill collapsed on
May 7, 1915.
VINCENT KNAPP.
CRUEL TO HIS ANIMALS.
Myron Kelsey Fined in Middlebury Court
After Plea of Guilty.
Middlebury, Oct. 27. Myron Kelsey,
arrested by George H. Chaffee on a war
rant rharging him with cruelty to ani
mal, pleadei guilty before Justice Al
Montpelier Girl Becomes Bride of Co. H
Member.
At the Congregational parsonage in
Montpelier at 6:30 o'clock last evening.
Miss Gladys May Knapp. daughter of Mr.
Beacon street people to the number of
35 joined in a neighborhood party at the
home of Robert Knox last evening in
honor of Mr. and Mrs. Friend N. Whit
comb, the occasion being in the nature
of a complete surprise to the couple. Mr.
and Mrs. Whit comb were not aware of
what was in store for them until they
accepted an invitation to call at the
Knox home. In behalf of the neighbors,
S. D. Allen presented the pair a leather
traveling bag. Feeling responses were
made both by Mr. and Mrs. Wfiiteomb.
A luncheon was served during the even
ing by the women living on and near
Beacon street. Mr. and Mrs. Whiteomb
have leased their house to Mr. and Mrs.
Frank Ahearn and are leaving to night
for Greenville. S. C, where they are to
pass the winter in the home of their
daughter, Mrs. Howard Stanley.
A geometric policeman was called to
prove the eternal human triangle on
Merchant street la-st night when the ap
pearance of a woman precipitated a near
riot among people leaving a picture
house as she asserted her tribal rights
in separating her hushand from bis com
Washington Street Trolley Car Headed
Toward Church Street.
Five passengers aboard the Washing
ton street car of the B. & M. T. & P. Co.
shortly after 6:15 o'clock this morning
had visions of a car ride up Church street
when a spreading rail near Academy
street permitted the car to jump the iron
and pursue its own course down the hill.
Motorman William Persons and Conduc
tor AVilliam Parry were in charge of the
car and the passengers, with one excep
tion, had boarded the car at the Nelson
street terminus and were hound north
ward. Brakes were applied as u
Testimony of experts in nervous and
mental diseases was introduced in Wash
ington county court yesterday afternoon
and to-day during the hearing on the
petition brought by the supervisors of
the insane to secure the release from the
state hospital at Waterbury of Mildred
Brewster, who shot and killed Annie
Wheeler in Montpelier nineteen years
ago last May. Miss Brewster was tried
and found not guilty by reason of insan
ity and was placed in the state institu
tion. Eight years ago she was released
on an order by Judge A. A. Hall follow
ing a hearing, but was ordered returned
by Judge Taylor after she had resided
for a short time at Hardwick. William
A. Lord, one of the attorneys who de
fended the woman during the murder
trial and also at the hearing in 1008, is
counsel for the petitioners and the state
is represented by State's Attorney Fred
E. Gleason.
The counsel for the petitioners an
nounced at 10 o'clock this morning that
he had finished and witnesses were placed
on the stand by the state's attorney.
Dr. Berry of Burlington, for five years
a member of the hospital staff at Water-
bury, was the principal witness this
forenoon. He told of his observations of
Miss Brewster while he was connected
with the institution, 180H to 1004. and
as the result of close and frequent ob
servations made during that period was
of the opinion that she, was not insane
at that time and assuming that her con
dition was not materially changed since
then believed she is now sane and not
dangerous to a community should she bo
released.
Constitutional inferiority, a condition
between that of sanity and insanity,
caused the act which placed Miss Brew
ster in the hospital, said the witness,
but despite her lack of intelligence as
compared with a normal person, he did
not believe her to be a moral degenerate.
Dr. Berry said that he had been told
at the hospital the circumstances about
the murder but was inclined to think
that those who told him about it were
prejudiced. '
In answer to hypothetical questions
propounded by Attorney Lord and State's
Attorney Gleason, the witness testified
that it is possible for an insane person
not to exhibit any symptoms and make -
any untoward acts and admitted that
such persons under restraint might, if
given their freedom, lie dangerous to
the community. He had never heard
of any person not exhibiting any signs
of insanity while in an institution and
on being released committing some un
toward act.
Questions asked by the attorneys hint
ed that Miss Brewster attempted to com
mit suicide several years ago, but Dr.
Berry insisted that such an attempt
made by a person of constitutional in
feriority would nyt necessarily prove in-
sanity, as conditions might do much to
ward causing the act.
New Cases Entered ' in County Court.
The following cases have been entered
with the county clerk: State vs. Pas
quale Caia. assault with intent to kill:
State vs. Wilbur Thornton, assault and
robbery; Hallett & Davis Piano com
pany vs. Giovanna Rossi and Augustus
Rossi; Julia Griffin vs. Town of Water
bury; John S. Maloney, vs Lewis Stev
ens et al.
48 CASES LISTED.
For Trial at November Term of Su
preme Court.
The trial calendar for the November
term of supreme court, which is sched
uled to open Tuesday, Nov. 7, which will
probably bo postponed until the follow-
ualjing day because of election, has been is-
list-
.. v, v ,.r npareil the ashniton suea DV Ilie cierK and contains
street hill, but when the iron spread, the ; of 48 cases. Many of the caes were
rear trucks swung into the roadway, thejon the October calendar or docket and
fore trucks continuing on the rails until were continueo. 1 ne nrn case s. i km
Church street was reached, when they hearing is Donly C. Hawley, administra
too, forsook the beaten path. No one i tor of the estate of Harriett C. Peck, vs.
jumped, but passengers and operators I Harvey T. Rutter, administrator of the
got a good jostling before the. car, after j estate of E. W. Peck, Chittenden county,
heading up Church street, came to a halt. I The case has been on several calendars.
Cntil 0:30 o'clock, one-half of Wash- ! Chittenden county has twelve cases,
ington street at the base of the hill was ' Franklin county two, Grand Ilc one,
closed to traflic, but a first-aid car from ! Caledonia nine, Orange two. ( irleans four,
the barns arrived on the cround-. soon; Rutland four. Windliam four, Windsor
after the derailment and by dint of
much effort, the car was returned to the
tracks and traflic was resumed before
mid forenoon. The car was not dam
aged.
Street department, employes ani lanor-
the employ ot the H. M. I. V.
four and Washington five.
The Washington emmty cases are as
follows: Cooley-Wright Manufacturing
Co., vs Eastern Fruit & Nut Orchard
Co., general assumpsit; Dorwin W. Cool
ey vs. D. W. Hatch et ah Annie W.
Stanvan vs. The Security Mutual Life
Co were at work this forenoon and after- 1 Insurance Co.: John L. Spaulding. adm..
I noon repairing the damage dime when the let al vs. Mutual Life Insurance ( o.. ot
ianiou ji n- ... p.... - - -
, . .. 1 1 ... : v. 1 . . la
eomoaniea 11 e mmi ouai-u mm 1,1-1 t-- . , ., . ,
l" ' u ' , .. , j-'h irhwav and evidences of the trip made
eort a sound beating and a shower of '"", , , . . . ,. !
" ' - " ...... - - - I n?fCT V r M I 1
great furrow in the north side of thejl'nion Mutual Fire Insurance o.
blows that fell before the officer arrived.
The nolice learned that the man had
bv the
west as
Cburch street.
, L - 1 -.1 i
nn .un. i. ji. nu yi t viniii Mm i, .. , teamsters who approacnea irom enner , . . u c -
Montpelier. and Hyde W. Vincent of bee. ms-kiiyi. a wriowrr to mmininl 'b wff (tv fl(l the south 1 P"l Away at Home of Her Son .n
East Montpelier were united in marriage, " f hl fw'f ,n Atlantic t ity N wofk un Barre.
witn linnieniaie int-imi arm relatives ( i i n.v. : ,,j i ...... f f -.,!... i...1th ha lwrn eradiiallv failinc. She
: ft fMHin UtllUl ITi s ",". - ' i mi 1 1 1 1 11 r i I 'I m lir -rm ir ia'i"",i' .
The groom is employed at the Lane , to her dower. People emerging from the
Manufacturing Co. plant and is a mem- theatre stared agape as the outdoor mov-
k.. f rn II k.inr thi KM-nnH nomhor n ics ppifiress. ana rrfuniTO mt urn
visitor.
. a wm, mtlft4i n .1 an r fC . r mm vsKawI ! b n&id and that K '. v till liia hnroj
diligently for clue, but was unrewarded, fatten his pips and dispose of them. I be married since the troops returned from j tenor of their way only when the blue
The searcher could not discover where the U pon payment of costs of 10.S5 he was Texas. They will resid- at 11 Hubbard eoat had broken up the mob scene. An
mi-hief maker entered the buildine. It allowed to go, the case beinir left open street. Montpelier. Mr. and Mr. Vincent I investigation 01 some 01 me anepe.i cir-
lil-elr that the Catherine will take nlac is thourht that the da mace wrouvht can until IVvember 4 to allow Kelsey time received many weddinc cifts of silver, cuna-tam-es leading up to the incidmt
atthecapitaL be repaired, to omplj with the law, cut jlass and linen. was in procrcss to-day.
Bingham, late of Middlesex. The will of Iwas born in lunbndge, wit most ot n,r
Walter .1. Plastridge. late of Northfield. .life had been spent in Newbury, where
;lmnal wiil iae piare i-iuniij, mitow -
niir the funi-ral, which will be held from
was presented for probate.
Mr. and Mrs. Lester McLaiiCafn. who
have been visiting friends on Washington
street, l'ft this non for their home in
jMniervi!le, Mass.
the home of her -m at 0 a. in. Mr.
Cample!l lfve no near relatives ex
cept her son. her husband bavin" dici
uvut IS 3 cars ago.
