Columbus is the Only Port of Entry and Natural Gateway From Old Mexico into New Mexico
mntut
Vol. VI.
I in MilHes
Columbus. Luna Counn New Mexico. October 27, 1916.
No. 19
Fall and Bursum
Behind Move
ment to Get
Troops Here
Chas. Heath
Elected Head of
Luna Co. Road
Commissioners
COURIER WILL FURNISH
ELECTION RETURNS
The Courier lias mack- a con
tract with the Western I'nion
Telegraph Company for the com
plete election returns and will
have a special wire put into the
Courier building. Bulletins will
be posted just as fast as they
come in on a board in front of
the ollice.
Ti.ll.nllnnn nulla .ll Iw. ,,
Mr. Heath-Plans mapped mil ;i wmI a, njjl ,0'nf iU1(, ',.
for immediate action Will untin.. r.r m rv.,...,.. ...m i. ....
appropriate funds. tlu slruols earjy Wednesday
,. " , , 1 morning giving complete results
I he new road board recently, ,. ., .nnrh na ia ni.oiioi.i,. t
movement here at a mass meet- appointed new tneir tirst meet- that time.
ng Wednesday evening to get ing Monday at the residence of
more troops and better protec- Charles Heath northeast of Co-1 ONLY ONE MORE DAY
;um for the people here. The , lumuus. i he nrst matter taken i FOR REGIS'I
,atter has been brought to the up was mat ot organizing tno
Holm 0. Bursum
Speaks to
31
Audience
Iwo distinguished statesmen Luna Count Road Hoard holds
iiiiicklv understand the way' important meeting at home of
politics have been brought to
bear in keeping troops from
being sent to Columbus.
The republicans started
Next Governor of New Mexico &
Speaks to one of the largest Bj
And most enthusiastic audi- rjj
dices ever seen in a political ifi
Meeting in Columbus. ft
rri
Hon. Holm (). Bursum. the
next governor of New Mexico S
addressed a full house at the rjj
Crystal Theatre Thursday after-
TRATION 110011- lhe house seats about bh
1.000 people, and practically ev- g
.ttention of Senator A. H. Fall' board. .Mr. Heath was elected' Tomorrow, (Saturday) is the feat was taken, i he ap- g
md Governor H. O. Bursum, and i chairman and Fred Sherman sec-! iasl dav the registration books plnuse that greeted the sneaker jfi
i heir aid enlisted. They realize rotary and treasurer. The other i wj p open and those who have ' proved beyond all doubt that he
that Columbus has not the pro-.member is C. L. Baker, an oldifUiiw to register or urged to bad the people with him. g
,,r protection and are using 'cattleman of Doming. come up to the oflice of the jus- The principal part of Mr. Bur- &
.V..1-V menus to tret more troops i Sherman and Baker were ap- tico of the nonce and roirister. sum's speech was on national af- Jfj
here immediately.
The movement was started by
i lie republicans in mass meeting
assembled Wednosdny evening
and now that the aid of Fall and
IJursum has been pledged, there
is no doubt about the results of
success in the undertaking with
in the next few days
Following
unanimously
meeting:
HE IT RESOLVED THAT:
We. the republicans of Colum
bus in mnss meeting assembled
express our condemnation of the
present administration for its
indiil'ercnce toward the people
of our village of Columbus. New
Mexico; and we do hereby
charge the president of the U.
and his secretary of war with
iriminal negligence for not giv
ing us proper protection, not on
ly at the present time but long
hi.foro the Villa raid.
Months before the tragedy of
March 9. 191G, the state and war
departments had been apprised
,.f our inadequate protection.
Governor McDonald had also
heen asked to intercede for us
m Washington, but all to no
.ivail.
On the morning of March 9,
the fears of our citizens were
realized the raiders came,
burning . looting and killing.
The whole world woke to the
mnt rf nor nroximitv to the bor
der and Mexican banditry the
worst, probably, in the world,
and to our need for adequate
protection. For a brief time the
government, stirred by public
..pinion, acted. Columbus be
...,,,. ti,.. base of the punitive ex
.wviitiim Into Mexico. All the
supplies for this expedition have
been dispatctieu irom nun:.
Thousands of troops were rush
ed to Columbus and sent into
Mexico, tc avenge the horrors
of March 9. The government re
alized nt the time that here is
the logical port for entry of any
large body of men Into Mexico
and the logical base for supplies
.nto Mexico.
But. politicians have evident
ly got the ear of the president
.ind of the governor of the state
.,nd have doubtless persuaded
hem that there are not enough
pointed by the chairman as a jf vou know of anyone who is a I'mra. Good roads and his plan
voter send them around that '' building them without bonds g
may be able to vote in the goner-1 '"eing issued was the mam issue
al election November 7th. brought to attention in his own
. campaign. He Rpoke of the ex-
COLUMBUS REPUBLICANS ! rollout system of highways in ifi
HELD MEETING 1 Caifornia and the enormous jp
amount of business brought to jji
Seventv republicans of Colum-1 that state by eastern tourists &
bus met in the basement of the account of its system of high- W
will be applied on the debt thcnow Havel building Wednesday ways. He said that funds tor ffl
board will now make. The board .evening for the purpose of per-1 building roads could be raised by
fecting their organization and to, a tax levy of one mil on the dol- fi
make plans for the future. t ten years, and that the S
A resolution was adopted con-, monoy obtained from this law g
demning the Wilson administra- for the next ton years would be
tion and charging criminal neg- available at once, or in thirty
ligence. not onlv before the raid ! days after the adjournment of
committee to make arrange
ments with the bankers in Dom
ing for the loan of funds sufll
cicnt to put the Columbus-Dom-ing
road in a condition that it
can be traveled, no more funds
being avaiablc until the first of
the vear. when the next install-
the resolutions meni oi jszo.uuu win ue ciue ami
adopted at the
intends to stay on this road un
til it is finished before under
taking anything else, and it will
be the policy of the present com
missioners to complete the road
as they go along and not stretch
the work out over a distance of
several miles and then never (in
ish any part
The board will either hire
competent road builder or let
out the work by contract. They
will also bring into use verifi
cation slips, and cwcl) bill must
be sworn to wiore it will be or
dered paid. A monthly state
ment will be made and publish
ed for the benefit of the tax
payers.
Mr. Sherman was appointed a
committee of one to get an esti
mate on the cost of a macadam
ized road from Columbus to the
countv seat and If the cost is
not prohibitive this matter will
be given consideration at the
ftrts regular meeting of the
board, which meeting will be
held in Darning Nveniber G.
Luna county now has a set of
road commissioners big enough
to place the interests of the peo
ple ot the county above their
own personal interests and the
taxpayers are going to got the
full value of the money they pay
for road purposes. They are a
set of men who believe in doing
things and you can now depend
uuon these gentlemen to build us
a road that we can travel three
but at the present time. A copy
of the resolution was ordered
to bo presented to Congressman
B. C. Hernandez. U. S. Senators
Fall and Catron.
All the county candidates were
present and a short talk from
each was exacted. They are very
enthusiastic.
Henry Burton was chosen as
chairman of the meeting and Ira
Haight was elected secretary. A
finance committee, consisting of
W. C. J. Quast. W. F. King and
A. Frederickson was appointed
by the chair. Mr. King on ac
count of business matters was
unable to sorve and Lea. Mid
(lleton was appointed in his
stead.
Complete harmony prevailed
and the present outlook is a big
republican vote in Columbus.
VOTE FOR ELECTORS AND
NOT FOR PRESIDENT
Voters are requested to bear
in mind that they must vote for
the electors and not for the can
didnte for president. If you in
tend to vote the democratic
ticket but not for Wilson it is
nocessnrv to scratch the electors
and if you scratch the name of
the legislature, providing the re
publicans elected a majority in
the legislature. The funds that
would be realized by this one
mil levy would amount to S2
oOO.OOO. The Mexican policy of the
oreeeni administration wiw dis
cussed anu condcmneu. ai mis
time the audience gave evidence
of their approval in round after
round of applause, and leading
and prominent democrats lead.
Mr. Bursum is no orator and
does not clai mto be. He presen
ted the facts in a plain, straight-
hundred and sixty-live days outWil;on, and leave on the names
of even1 year. I of the democratic electors your
vote will count for Wilson.
CHAPLAIN MADDOX j
TO MAKE ADDRESS , AnlEs. A11) SOCIETY
WILL GIVE SUPPEK
O. o-.,i..r IW "l .It
n ...ii. rkninin' tnim I TIip Ladies' Aid Society will
Maddox. of the 17th Inf., will give a Halloween Party and
bo ti,n n,i(iro nt the Chun- ovster supper on Halli.ween
lains' Service in the army Y. M. night October 31st, at the M. E
r- A l.,.iMimr Subject of :id- Church.
ZZ !,, r-nh.mbua to do their dress. "The Making and Rending Everybody come and unrig a
' fCmuTmiednagrGT 'of Books." All are welcome. sheet and pillow-case.
: Work Shirts and Overalls
1 1 i
When vou buy work shirts or overalls you want something that will
stand up under hard wear and give satisfaction in lit and c .nvcn.e.ue.
Our work shirt,, arc made up m several colon; and va.y in weights and
material! from the light chambray to the heaviest of flannels and wool
cm They are inamifattuicd by the best shirt makers in America and
Ire first class in finiuli workmanship.
No matter what your work may be you will find our line of jackets
ud overalls suited to youi demands.
QAM RAVEL New Mexico
J I T
..... ...uk Nu. M'LNU WITH I'S STWS RIGHT
THE DUUiUr- v---
liildh
:
Prosperity in Columbus
Due to Wilson Administration
At no time in the history of Columbus has there
been greter evidence of prosperity than nt the pres
ent time. There has been a big advance in the value
"f real estate and today more sales are beiilg made
than ever before. There is plenty of money in circu
lation and everybody seems to be prosperous. Some
of the democrats are giving Wilson the credit for this
prosperity. Those democrats are right. The present
prosperity is absolutely due to the Wilson administra
tion. There is no way getting round that, and w iu
in favor of giving Wilson all the credit that he deserve
and then allow a littlo.
But another question arises. Are we in favor ot
prosperity brought nbout by such means as the pro
perty we boast of in ColubmusV Are we willing to
.-.aerifice our property and the lives of our best citi
zens for the sake of a little prosperity. The present
conditions have been brought about by the raid. The
increased business everyone is doing hero at this time
is due entirely to the raid. The raid was the result of
Wlison's policies. In this way the administration is
responsible for the present prosperity in Columbus.
During the present administration the U. S. gov
ernment has openly favored the bandit Villa above all
thp leaders in Mexico. Later the same administration
has opposed him. It recognized Carranza and lifted
the embargo on arms to him, while the embargo still
remained in effect for Villa. The same administration
permitted the Carranza troops to travel from El Paso
to Douglas in El Paso and Southwestern trains to re
inforce Villa's enemy. In renlity the Wilson adminis
tration has since it threw Villa down been assisting
Carranza and opposing Villa. For this reason Villa
naturally looked upon the United States as his enemy
just as much so as he regarded Carranza his enemy.
Under those conditions nothing more or less than at
tacks on the American people were to be expected. Then
under those conditions no one but our president and
his policies can possibly be responsible for the present
prosperity in Columbus.
Those who favor prosperity under these condi
tions would naturally be expected to support the man
who is responsible for it. Pome may support him for
other reasons. But the large majority of the people
of Columbus, regardless of politics, will not by their
sacred ballot say that they are in favor of such taint
ed prosperty.
!fi
tft
tfi
Ifi
ifi
a;
ss
is
u;
Sfi
!fi
Sfi
Ifi
h;
Ifi
ifi
Ifi
5
Ifi
a;
U5
The Democratic press bureau lauds Arthur Seligman. tin
f i , i,,ir, oil Democratic siaie Lnainnau. as a naru ueaueu ousuk-.s nun:
bitterness and mud slinging and I got the money for the campaign. How about S. lign.an t
his words carried conviction succeed Trinidad C. deBaca as state game and fish warden? Th.
The McDonald administration I Potion would seem to offer opportunities to an accomplish.-.,
was never mentioned in his nunwr anu a mu .iubu uuu ....
speech-an administration that recommendations from the country postmistresses.
Fnmous hard headed business mon: Arthur Seligman. Dem
ocratic state chairman, who wanted a month's salary from pos
mistresses and postmasters tor his state campaign fund. W. t
McDonald, the governor who used his high oflice in favor his ir
terests as a cattle baron. A. A. Jones, the Las Vegas lawyer wh.
forgot the people when he became assistant secretary of the di
partment of the interior.
Doubtless A. A. Jones would make the same kind of senatoi
that Governor McDonald has made a governor.
The Albuquerque Journal points with pride to the record o,
bigfcst man that ever stood on I H. C. deBaca, Democratic candidate for governor. Recalling tni
New Mexican soil. Mr. Bursum time deBaca paroled the wife-murderer Vigil, who then went out
and committed anoiner murner, ano uenaea iruiiicniiiK
public school funds m San Miguel county, the people oi the stai.
are viewing with alarm.
condemns it 'elf
Some democrats say they are
Jisapijointed in the man, and
they certainly should be. He
won the fair thinking people and
has without a doubt made a big
crimp in the McDonald vote in
Columbus".
County chairman J. R. Blair
presided over the meeting nnd
introduced the speaker as the
wus accompanied nere irom
Deming by Corporation Commis
sioner Hugh n. wuuams anu
Guthrie Smith of the El Paso
Herald. The party returned to
Deming in the evening.
Mr. Bursum was escorted over
the camp by Colonel Abbott. Lt.
Colonel Porterfield, Captain Van
Schaick. J. R. Blair and G. E.
Parks. He was given the oppor
tunity of seeing the large supply
of crovernment property now
Republican campaign speakers, both state and national, ar
getting large audiences wherever they go. There is wholesom.
interest and enthusiasm for the republican tickets national, stat
and county. The democrats, on the other hand, are having poi .
meetings. Four years of the McDonald-deBaca brand of stat.
administration is enough.
And Wilson policies: Wilson's secretary of war. Newton !
Baker, is tolling the people that George Washington's soldiers wei
as bad as Villa's men: that they stole, ravaged churches and dro.
stored here for the troops at the i ministers out. Secretary Baker deserves a niche in the nail i
base and the expedition. fame right next to Benedict Arnold.
Messrs. Blair and Parks took Povton. republican candidate for the oflice of count;
him up to the camp recently ya- c.oUUtv. IS makng a very active campaign and is re
cated by the 2d Mass In an I VvfeiTno "rnnll amount of encouragement. Mr. Peyton is a youny
anu impose.. ui. f clituro aru js high y educated and is titted lor the oinc
absolute need of more troops , '8 every respect His many friends are with h.m to th,
here for protection, as well as ! hj Kb in 1 , campniBn hc ,B mnkinK it b,
for duty, that troops now here JHJngtlt he must bo considered in the final count. You can
SShft?iSST 0thC1 Ako'a mistake by casting your ballot for him.
Mr. Bursum stated that he 'n,e election of S. C. Pierce and Ernst Kngendori has prai
was very agreeably surprized at tically beon eonceedod. Such men as these do not always appear
the town of Columbus and the on tiie ticket and the people know they cannot afford to turn them
reception he had received and , (own. Lmin county will have a fair representation in the state
hoped to be able to make us an- legislature and a man that we will be proud to call our representa
other visit soon. tive. and a man that will work for the interests of the county re
eai-dlosB of politics, in S. C. Pierce. Ernst Engendorf will give
SOUPS LARGEST WEST qV0VV section of the county a fair deal on the commissioner board
OF MISSISSIPPI umj wjjj gjve us a business administration.
The mncMneahoiw at the base If such a thing is possible and Wilson was to be re-elected
t Z ? enlarge I we wonder if he would stand as he did ess than four years , age , on
X mos twice their present size, preparedness. Is his all of a sudden piea lor preparcuiiuss a iu
I which art "now the larjes auto: sentiment or is it a mtHm. of securing votes The original idea
I bL nmirnimm otthf! was not Wilson's or his party, but a demand by the American
KlSpl rSr X,t 500 on people. lie changed his ffXiff S
are cmpioyeu in anu u . -; -- the tpm
repair houjis. .......v. ....
