IZOZO OUTLOOK
Published Weekly in the Interest of Carrizozo, and Lincoln County
VOL. X, N0.45
CARRIZOZO. UNCOLN COUNTY. NEW MEXICO. FRIDAY. OCTOBER 27. W6
HKICE $l 5Ü PER YEAR
LIFELONG DEMOCRAT DECLARES
MCDONALD CHARGES AGAINST
BURSÜM WICKED FALSEHOOD
Unelo Hnrry Hermann, Plunecr Mogollón Businccs Man, Eofuscs to
Stand for Libellous Statements Spoken from Platform at Silver
Olty by Angry Democratic Hods Cites Interesting Inotanccs in
Bursum 's Life as a Developer of Now Mexico and Makes a Few
i Comparisons.
Bilvcr City, N. M., Oct. 2fi. "I wilt glvo flovornor McDonald Juun n no
vrlll prove Hint Mr. Ilurstim got ono rout of graft munoy out of Uio building
of thn Mogollon-Hoccqrro county road In 1080."
Till Ih tlm unoqulvocnl statement mado to thn Bllvor City Enterprise by
Unelo llnrry llormunn, for thirty years a rcsldont of Mogollón muí a tifo
long Democrat.
"t ilon't want to tin mixed up In politics," nnld Mr. Ilormnnn In explana
Hon of Ills Htntemcnt, "but I will not stand Idly by nnd boo His reputation of
a mnn libelad by a faino declaration, when I know abHolutoly of my own
knowledge tlint It Is not no.
"(lovornor McDonnld olthcr lias not Investigated tlio facts or else ho In
wilfully misrepresenting tlieni, and I will glvo lilm or any other man S&00 If
liu will prove that Mr. Hursuni used the public rend fund for Kraft-purposes
"Why these men will innkn these statements when tliny lenow that wo In
Mogollón, who woro Ihorr when tho road was built, know bolter, Is more
than 1 can understand. Not only did Mr. ltursuni not profit tiy tho building
of tho rond, but ho nctunlly Inst money, as he pravo pcrsnnnlty of lila private
funds to help In tho construction of the highway when thn funds, which were
Inndeiiuute from tho beginning for such n lingo undorlnhlng, began to run
low."
Mr. Ilormnnn mado his statement with eoiiio vphnmonce, nnd after Orv.
nrneir W. C McDonald's siioenh In Sllvor (!lty. Mr. Ilormnnn Is known
throughout this part of tho Btnte as "Uncle llnrrv," lie la highly respected;
In recanted ns tlx. soul of Integrity nnd his word I as Rood nr, his bond
wherever lie Is known.
"I wan running u nn win III In tho Mogollan mountains Just nbovn the enmp
of Mogollón," Ills statement continuos, "nt tho time nnd hnd built n private
road to my mill nt my own exponen. It costing inn nbout $3.(100. They used
part of this road for tho Mogollón-Socorro road. They had only a smnll sum
of monoy to start with, which later was added to by aiipronrlatlons; but the
undertaking was a large one nnd anyone who ban tried to build mountain
roadways knows Hint tlio nclual coftt nnurly nlwnvii exceeds tho estimate.
"It was co In this case, and Mr. Hut-sum wont down. In Ills pocket and
helped out with his own private funds. lint even thin was anon eaten up. Hut
Ihoy built u rond that has lasted and even today tlio llursum load nemas Hi"
innuntnlns Is one of tlio host examples of mountain highway construction Hint
wo have In tlio state.
"I wnnt to say fuithor that I have known Mr, llursum ns mnn nnd hov
0r thirty years; Hint I have never known him In that time lo do a Utile
tiling a dishonorable thing or ono that reflected on Ills honesty. And t
hnVo had clone personal mul business lenllngs with him for twenty year o"
that time.
"Tho people or New Mex'co, If they bnllovo Ihnso llos that are told nboiif
him are doing n good man i. great wrong. I don't enro what his política'
loriónos are, but I will not stand by ind see a man's ropututlnu Hlaudoro!
Whon I know of my own personal knowledge Hint the man li ns honest ami
oloa.il ns nny man I hnvo over known. As t in id beforo, I am a rock-rlbbmi
Democrat; have always voted Hie Democratic ticket, nnd 1 hellove the men ni
lllb head of the cninpalgti really do not ronllso tho loal character of tho man
thoy nre trvlng to wreck."
Unolii llnrry Ilormnnn Is ono of the pioneers of Now Moxlco. tin enme
lo Mogollón In IRKfi, and for thirty yours conducted n sawmill, retiring a slioii
Hmo ago. lie Is rugged and plain-spoken nuil quick to rodross an Injury or
Injustice.
"Vou may stato further," mid Mr. Herman. "Hint I know Mr. llursum to
do a thing sonio years ago that I consider ono of tho fluoBt things I have
over known n man lo do.
"About sixteen yeiiui ago he became a innmbor or a mining company In
Mogollón which Inter went Into Insolvency, due lo the mismanagement or the
cotilDony by one oi tho members. Thn company left 45,000 worth or linbll
Itlos with little or no assets. Most or this wns owing to Mogollón mnrclinni
for supplies and eastern concerns for mining marl inorv. Mr, llursum wen"
to work raising sheep and stock, nnd never stopped until he had paid ovori
cunt of that Indebtedness himself. It took lilm years or offort to do It.
"Ask any of theso crodltors what thoy think or this mini who look a
company s debt as a personal liability. Democrat or publican, tliuy wll
Utl you Hint Holm O. llursum has not a dishonest drop of blood In his veins,
nnd that n man who will do a fine thing like that will twvor stoop to the
nkulliltiBKcry In tlio vilest slanders Hint I have oror seen In print.'-
That Is what n lifelong Dmnoomt thinks or Holm O. llurtiiin, Itopubllcan
candidato for governor of Now Mexico.
CAPITAN WINS BASKET BALL
Tho Carrizozo Iliirh School
'basket ball team went down in
defeat jSaturdny nftornoon bofore
a big, well-disciplined team, Cupi
tan haB. to a certain deirreu.
gotten rovengo for tho many past
ueienis aumuustercu ai ene nanas
of Carrizozo, but tho score of 18
to G tolls of some clover worlt by
thoCarrizozans againsTtno over
whelming .odds throuKhout tho
game. A luncheon was sorved
'atnoon in the high school nudl-
loriümí the jntiro high school
.atftlyisitors participating. A re-
tirnjgamo will bo played in a
- lew vyeeKB,
TraiTlc wá tiod up for .several
nniir mar Ntitnmnv. ntuini in n
freight wreck.at Pintado, num
"bbra'Ono and ThrM.nrfarriviftg
lmro- üñüf ninoclock Intho
FNTERTAINS BIBLE CLASS
The Woman Hiblo Chuts of tlio
Methodist church wore the guests
of Mr. Shuldn Thursday after
noon, assisted by Mrs. R. E.
Hoffman at tho homo of the lat
ter. Somo interesting numbers
wore offered by mombers, of
which alargo attendance was pre
sent, and refreshments woro
served .
0;-fr..Glllptt has rolurned
Carrizozo, flfiutiiptontiB to go
Mr. Gillett hal
homo In tho H!
Ho Is a maaU'i
business, hn ' ' -i
.return
Í. ti
nis.t
to
in
sinfiM hero.
It V V new
b oft addition.
1 '1 of
Garraozoli
ROUSING REPUBLI
CAN MEETF'.G
Hon. H. O. Bursum, Judge
W. E. Lindscy and James V.
Tully Address Large Audi
ence Saturday Night.
CANDIDATE GIVEN WARM
RECEPTION BY VOTERS
Last Saturday night witnessed
one of the largest political gather
ings over known in Carrizozo
when Holm Ü. Bursum, republi
can enndidnte for governor, W.
E. Lindsey, the next licutPiiitnt
irovernor. and James V. Tully,
tho republican standard-bearer
for stale senator from this dis
trict, addressed the largo con
course of people gathered at tho
Wetmoro oncra house. The
house was fittintrlv decorated in
fitters and enmtmign pictures of
toe candidates nnd music was
furnished in generous quantities.
Altogether a most enthusiastic
welcome was given tho G. O. P
candidates hero-enough to striko
dire alarm to tho democrats to
see such a rousing demonstration
in McDonald's home town. This
goes conclusively to show public
sentiment has been changed in
the last four years and prophesies
unmistaknbly the overwhelming
election of llursum and with him
the entire county, state and na
tional republican ticket. Tho
candidates have many warm per
sonal friends here and made
many others while hero together
with their votes on November
seventh, .hist a few days re
main for tho final wind-up of this;
whirl-wind campaign and the;
time is being filled to ovorllowing !
with many speeches per day, so !
that there shall be no question'
of a doubt from any quarter.
Vote the ticket straight a id pit"
in power a party that can make ,
things hum in New Mexico. j
CHANGED HANDS
Tho general merchandise store
of Joo Ashford of Oscuro was!
sold recently to A. II. llarvoy,
cashier of tho Fanners' Hank of
Urich, Missouri. Having taken
full control of tho lmsinojiB a com
petent manager will be put in
charge, probably joined later by
tho how owner s son, and the
policy of the firm will bo to serve
elllciently tho people of that
vicinity. Having taken a great
likinir to New Moxico. Mr.. Har
vey regrets his inability t) take
personal chame of the business
now and establish hit residence
here. The business will "o con
ducted under the name of Hnr-
voy Store Co. Tho deal wns
mado by T. H. H. Hackney of
Urich. Mo. Mr. Ashford is un
decided yet as to where he will
locale.
MRS. FORREST ENTERTAINS
Mrs. Randolph Forrest enter
tained n small party Saturday
evening in honor of Miss Lydin
Menger of Tularosa who spent
the week-end here. Music;, both
vocal and instrumental, and a
number of fertdingsjepafjsed tne
time most pleasantljdiftar which
refreshments wérq fjHBfc Miss
Menger returned toTlmrpsa Sun?
day afternoon as shis' employed
WHAT THE raOGRATIC CANDIDATE
for governor thinks about the
om:crít:ggncidate for au:itob
LAST WEEK In l.n -. Veres Miguel A. Otero, treasurer or the N w
Moxlcnn Printing Company nt sniiln 1'6, publishers ot tho Bantj
l'o "New Mexican," nnd cnndldnto on tho Democratic stnti
ticket for auditor, ..poke to a Mimll hut Interested mul lenco o lit i
former le'.low townsmen. Having heard Hint Otero recently ha'ljmid
up ton yeura of unpaid hack Uim b, nnd Hint Ezlqulul C. do Miu;l, ii.t
Democratic cundldnto for governor, would appear on tho pint mm in
with It 1 in, tho neighbors of both '..ciil to tho meeting to lionr what
would bo said. Bun MlgiH county hnd Just nbout given up hope ot
over get'.tng Otcro'o dcllniicnt tnx money, nnd ns Ills nominal Inn by
the Democrats purmittcd lilm lo make a ralso and pay up, l.au V. f .
people look with favor ui his nomination, although this will na i tr t
the wny i boy voto. Likewise they r"ineinbered nil the .idee f li'
Lieutenant (lovornor do llucn had said about Otoro In his paper, !,i
Von del Pueblo, published at Uis Vegas, and so thoy turned out to
hear de Haca reconcile his former condemnntlon with his prja r. fal
tóme prulso. It was an lutoro-iHiig mooting.
Otero, as in bis cuutou, when in a political content, op.'nc:) up
with tho "rncc Issuo." lie charged Hint tho Republicans had l- .i
using thu "race Issue" In tho l'eco. Vnlloy. This woll-worn old charco
has been used In every election for ninny years. Otoro Is not 'v.r,
Inn! man. I Hp methods as governor of the territory were Hi -
the puinsltcs of all ages; and ns mi nttncho ot tho Hantn I-'o Nor
McsUcni' i nil Its mllllnnnlro backer, ho hna not changed. Otoin i',..
tlio ouplu ulmt he .mil de Haca had dono In this campaign to p!.
ill tlio Itepiibllcans Mars nntP thieves; nnd do linca then to'd '
pro. 'e whut ho and Oieto bad dnno lo provo tho Republicans nil I
ihk' iti'eves, Rtnte C'linli'mnn Arthur flellginnn's Instruclloiis to nil In
candidates and apenkors appear to bo to call all Republicans llnrs an 1
thloves.
It wns nn nttnntlvu, dlMilflcil. courteous nudlonce, but w' e.- .
It'itn and Otero beati to excbuiige compliments nnd dweM o-i t
Iniof rlly, patrletlsm and high rhnrni tor, each of the other, Hi i
began lo tnugli and a cruel .voung mnn with a pense of humor h- 'fir
p.i ."iiiuotincl tho In 1 1 roples or transiatlnna 'of paragraphs m ' 1
M'lhaltm from La Vo del 1'noiilo. do linen's pupor, of a rnw i '
yearn acn, While do Ituca told tho peopla of his homo town W: .
11 nlie (hap ho now liilnk (Horn, his aiidionco was rending t
hue of DniUKi'tiphs Horn do liacn's LaVoit, ot which tho folio ...
aro u r.'nr samplo 1:
"Tlio fact that not n slugln native son of tho territory up
pear.t on tho lint of doiegites which tho governor (Ot ro
: lii:iiitcil to go to Phlco.t.o on tho 1st dny of .Itino, to 110,
iiii.oui thu Itopubi.iun piutv hi the national cnnveulion. 11 '
mlt only ono ept,-n: t'i:n, mil that Is the aversion wblc'i t' -raid
Otero PTldont'y bus to Hi" raco, onc-hnlf of whn.e I w '
vmv throURh bis -ein. . . . This and his nuiny oiin r 1
lo wllloll to repcutstily n called tho nttmitlon n' 1!
prw-p't', pro.-o coiiel;t,ielv wh it wo bollove, and tin I K t'i-'
(!lu pvi'1-ner (Qle'o)t u ' t t t Hie bosses durlllB tlio I.
of ' leonero,1' cnni'.Amv that thó Now Mexican 'peOplo n '
gor-l 1 1 iv .-'1 to work find not to sit at tho tablo villi
their "Lord."
nT"o, vtt:n pi. vrprtTrintr to iiaise tur "vrr
SITE" 'AIVist TIIK lll?Pltm,PV3 IN' HIS LAS VEC '
fin -r-r fV-'KED. PUT HE Din BITCKHD IN ItAHP;'' "
of i::s ivtrr wmrn wap not half as dead as ii.; .-
TV Is now (rolna nboiu (hn tato tolling tho p-' "'
(Vero te thr friend, nn honest v-in nnd a good cltlmeti. '
r'piit vi- tbt Otoro wns evoi-ior do naca hardly pai"-o-i n 1
of bli e 'i r without nome tatomont like tho one quoted nbn e, v.-'.
he ev'.d' -rlv clncorfly believed.
la- e-os rltlKcrs In ve boen Infinitely amused at Hie o-chn- "
of p'o. 1 riitlon about each other 1m tween do linen nnd 1 i- ".
lb" I' 1 woro pusfed back and forth tho people roi 'Ik
Vi"n ' rnlgul the men lsuo t'iov reenlled how do i-
proven litem's nttltudn townrd thn Spanish-American re-, le, o-iT-'n-t
;'e - while lie was r" er"nr And When Oieto t .
Wf'i clri'M' t"r and peMounl ntogrltv nnd clenn recoul ' K '' '
C,,.... i' , .,.-ir reineeilic'o,! h's iwt ef residence In Le 1
thn out-' "( liipldnntn t'.i rein. T .ey reenllod practlcnllv t 10 tl -V
1 e (I " ' t mentir"' nd o' rotary of H10 Lai '
lnvwl. lo i'.od fnnn or Hio puMIe nnhool funds to his pntlttc-l tmis. to
In itMfi inr Hie pnrrnMO of n lor-at elortlon anmpnlgn.
Men '"n Mn'l'or lnlr'ls ns de Unen ilnd Otoro do: men who 1
we'd 1 'hind H-cm smti ns aro 'etilnd thun two, nro told 1 1
nn I five I'tt'o er mIH lo the IntolllpTiieo or tlio people when t'iev ,"l
:i tlio 1 hilo ple-lonn ! ' -ifn,('"le,i for offleo togítlier nild f 1
ke of I'm effort to rt vines, forgot (heir pasts. Tlio neoelo 1
ilwavs t-ian Tgnriled bv Otero n fools. Ills whnlo nfflele'
proves his point of vlow Hut the people nro not lools nnd the o 1.
Hi do net forget. T1' ii" oile wl 1 not fergot on election '
tho same newsnnpnr at Hnnla I'd, "Tlio Now Moxlcnn," tindor n '-f
fD'ont iiiiiniiRenient, "Ui-roitid Oteto when ho was gdveriior' 1 1 '
gavn to lilm thn simie Inige proportrim of its pnce nnd
Ciibnnio prnlnn ns Is being glvon him now. Thoy romomhor oti i'i
relntlcn lo the U rmer tuniiapemont of the Now Mexloun; nnd - -know
bli relation to tho i-i-osent mnyment.
Otero hns reor'ed nnd will continue to rosort to itnfn'- n
gentlemnelv, croeVd i"et''"ds In Hits esmpnlgn. It Is the eel
tent !'o knows. Tho Ileuubllcnns need go no further Hinn his rerord
and Hie genornt nubile l.nowledgo of that rocord to guarantee (Horn's
overwhelming defeat. Such strength an de I la on had has been Ust
to lilm largely by his nbmidnnnient or principle, bis complete rhnnir
of front nnd his public repudiation of his fight on Otoro nnd his
statements about lilm covering a period of neurly twenty yoara of
activo direction of his nuwspnper.
DEER HUNTING
Tho open season for deer wan
ushered in on W-cdneüdny tho
25th and sovcrnt eager hunting
parties have already gone out,
In fact sevornliwdro, organised
early InJ-ho wefk'fdl.bo actually
on the ground aMhreak Wed
nesday, evideñliyjHilrnily believ
ing in thd old mldqgo-that tlio
WIIL PI AY H)ND0
The C'arri7o"o Girl's Packet
Ball Team will piny the Hondo
team in the lultfr place Satur
day. ThafljmlUu) team also ex
pects t6 bo iifflHffnilo that day as
baskQtlinU la to' io tho order of
the day. Mrs; T, AY Spencer Is
np)V coaching the tenm with II.
evening.
Franklin ns mnringer.
fn
in tho schools ot that place,
erly Uira catches the vyormi
W 4m i "T',
4i
.A
m
