!
'IWi'tlOrl i' Ibmry
Tanttal Bus. din
o7
Published in the Mo
renci - Clifton District.
Population - 15,000
The Oldest Copper Pro
during District in the
State of Arizona.
AND flORENCI LEADER
VOLUME XVIII.
CLIFTON ARIZONA, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1916.
NUMBER 23.
Cqeper.
HE
DEMURRER III THE
CASH CASE IS
.SUSTAINED'
The time of the Superior Court was L
occupied last Tuesday in hearing arT V" 0 iuC " ,Vi. o -S
guments, and rendering a decision, inTpU!?P.ed tne traces of the G. O. P.
the case of the demurrer of Jim Cash, r d-18. nw one of the strongest advo-
Sheriff of Greenlee .county vs. thei"?. w.'u L ul
Board of Supervisors in re his peti
tion that his name be placed on the
official ballot as an Independent can
didate for sheriff of Greenlee county
at the ensuing general election.
L. Kearney represented Mr. Cash
and Frank J. Curley, of Tucson and
A. R. Lynch the Board of Supervis
ors. 1
After lengthy researches of author
ities an able presentation by both
sides, Superior Judge Frank B. Laine
took the case under advisement a5d
on Wednesday rendered the following
decision:
tiff's complaint and to the alternative I
writ in the case of Cash against the j " vZr '
Board of Supervisors upon the ground i'und e Ja.u" thTnrv g lu
that the same does not state facts j hat ,h dne for th.e country fo it
sufficient to constitute a cause of ae- ,tne preent administration
ion; plaintiff bases his action upon . faultfinders look for something that
his compliance with the statutes of , can criticise . and always in op
Arizona relating to the nomination of P?s'on na f0
candidates for public 6ffice otherwise -eat Pe".n who ia Oho off?c.e
than by primary-election or commit- against their wishes So is it in this
tees and unless he shall have com- ? fs it was when Lincoln was pres
plied fully and completely with theldeDt- n ne l116", ,they
provisions of Chapter 12 ol the agree on and that is the tariff law
Revised Statutes of Arizona of 1913. ! J"" both claim should stand as it
relating to such nominations he would j f at present regardless of who en
not be entitled to have his name ters the office. Mr C eveland was
placed upon the ticket, and before a 60 criticised, particularly during
plaintiff is entitled to the" relief de- hl8 secnd erP-. Nothing that was
iianded in his complaint he must al- accomplished during his regime was
lege all the facts showing a -fc Kn'chZftS
pliance with such statutory require- to tnese antagonists, vvny cnange ror
ments. and if he has faile'd to do so"e who lacks the actual experience?
defendant's demurrer should be sua-. Mr- Wilson has been ied and found
tflined not wanting and Mr. Hughes, a man
. .. , , ' ;.i.i.iU1io has been tried, but not in the
rue aueeations m me cumuiaiui.i
insofar as they - re;8arre capacity, nas Deen round want-
Tt&T? tmrXer6 -sse himonwh VouTd
cSsion1 The "IS not'have done had he been the chief ex
allege the filing together with the j f tnis when the great
nomination petition with the officers 1 tn
'with whom such petition is filed, the "at could he have done other than
name of each and every individual, c
with his post office address, by orj
,-,h ,,oh .TirlptA hM ex.
1 j p,; 4.. ... ipna your sisters would be the ones. :
pended money in defraying .he ex- shoulders would fall the
cense of his campaign, nor floes ne
allege that instead of filing such name i bf of the sorrow. This European
or name8, that he has notified such : ?e has Drwen conclusively that
officer that he has not authorized and.'VS the w.? Th 8ufI.T 2 S
will not authorize any person to sorf l,"neer- of tortu- while their be
acr for him but that he will in Der-j,trved one9t are awy to fight for
ton account for all money or other tllfelr country s sake. Think before
things of value expended in the in-l cast your vote on the 7th day of
terest of his candidacy as required ! "'ember what the future will brmar
ly the provisions of Paragraph 3029 ; Put a taexper fenced man n
of the Revised Statutes of Ar P-
1913. nor does said complaint allege.-, , . ., , .
a compliance with the provisions of : Hughes remains silent on what he
Paragraoh 3054 of the Revised Statu-'" do.' ut e can hpr froma
fes 1 of Arizona of 1913, requiring theima,1.tof hfs character, who says, the
candidate to file a statement of his ex- of y position forbids me to
i PMiress myself and requires me to
For'this reason, I think the com-?l,ent- betas the case
... " , he should have sat on the supreme
plaint states a cause of , . action. fcench gnd permitted any aty to
Therefore the demurrer is sustained 0. nnt," iy. ,; ij
Dated this 25th day of October,1916 ' ' " "' V' ""-cu
p B laine " ;rrS?-ion which he held. The supreme
j ivut which our forefathers gave us.
jl'.r rieht of the constitution, the court
SHANNON COPPER COMPANY to which we appeal as a last resort,
MAKING LARGE PROFITS when we feel that justice is not being
ratted out to us: in that court, the
Hon. Mr. Justice. Hughes has allow
The directors af the Shannon Cop- ed noim to intervene. When Mr.
per company, in declaring a quarterly ; Kvehes was chief justice of the su
n idend of 25 cents, have placed the I prprae court, he could not be inter--stock
on a regular 1 a year basis viewed by anyonei regardless of par
with "extras" as warranted by earn- ty affiliations: regardless of their
iuss. i social position, with the exception of
Present earnings are the largest in snh as Mr Root; the man who spon.
the history of the company with S0r8 the lnvlsible government. Such
pioius niDDiuB auum. .roen could have access to his private
month or at the rate of $4 a share perchamber and none others Now ne
annum on the 300,000 shares outstand- comes out and throws his gauntlet
ins. For the first nine months of this j down to sollcit the aid of the com.
year profits were $62o,000, which is j pe0pie. Can they, in the face
more than sufficient to meet the full j oF his past performances, cast their
years dividend requirements at pres- vote for him? Mr Huehes, natural
ent regular rate with extra. jy is abiding by the platform laid
The treasury is now in a strong po- for hlm bv Mr Root and Wg
sicion with about f 1,200,000 net quick followers. Ladies, if Mr. Hughes is
assets so that practically all earnings elected president of the United
can now be declared in dividends. At siHt,es. it will be a calamity. It is
the present time there remains in the u to you to see that the man who
hands of the public only $169,000 bono-g there is delegated to that ex-
snannon Arizona nanway uuiiua uui
of an original issue of $600,000. 1
Production is sold well ahead, a 1
portion into next April at approxi-!
niatelv 27 cents ner pound which as-
sures a continuance of present large
profits for six months at least. The
highest price yet received by the
company was 29 1-4 cents a pound for
625,000 pounds sold last May for Aug
ust delivery which as a "special"
transaction, the remainder of its out
put beta? sold in the regular way on
the basis of Engineering & Mining
Journal quotations.
MRS. SHAW OUT FOR
LAND REGISTRAR
Edward L. Shaw, who has been a)ney Eiig Jas. H. Kerby, D. R. An-
candidate for the office of register .
'6f the local land pffice, has with- Williams," A. H. Slaughter, Pickens
drawn his application in favor of hisa-VWMppfe.
wife, Mrs. E. L. Shaw, whose appli- j,rCGrath, John Bradberry, J. B. Hoff-
cation for the vacant position is being
endorsed by .many prominent demo- .M . Lally, Joe Deck, S. C. Swift, Har
ckts of the county. I ve-v Grady, W. W. Dutton.
"irs. Shaw has been a !rsident of;
Arizona for the past twenty years, is
a prominent clubwoman and has tak
en an active part in all political is
sues, including the grant of suffrage,
j-vvh1ch latter cause she lent her un
divided efforts during the entire agita
tion for votes for women.
Turn n n n
iuintn u. u. r.
GOMES OUT FOR
L!
.. " , 'V"""' ui ma c"uu"
rrnw "rv -c.i tt
election of President Wilson. Mr.
Moiloy, ever since his advent to Ari
?onn has been a staunch republican
and supported his party in Territorial
and later in State issues, with con
stancy and ability second to none.
In the democratic county of Yuma,
where it meant much to be a repub
lican partisan, Moiloy was always in
the breach for the success of the G.
O. P. standard bearers.
In an address delivered recently be-
,-fare the Woodrow Wilson Woman's
Club of Yuma, Mr. Moiloy acquitted
himself as follows:
"The good ' accomplished by Lin
co,n d" trT,n sla
.. .
. " " y " "5" T
conflict, and who would be the worst ;
am lerers : lira lauies nere preseut
a1ted position. President Wilson."
. ;
j
NOTICE
T the Voters of Greenlee County: I
niaienienTs naving oeen circuiaiea
;?:i-ouehout Creenlee ;county to tho ef
ff rt that certain candidates upon the
Democratic ticket are not in harmony
wit'i their party in the coming cam
paign, and nre openly or covertly sup
porting Republican nr Independent
- r,i:'n?es we, the undersigned, candi
dates upon the Democratic ticket, and
members of the Democratic central
committee of Greenlee county, hereby
brand such statements as false, and
each of us hereby pledge our active
iind loyal support to the entire Demo
cratic ticket in State, County and Pre-
t inrt Afrs Jpecio "RilliTifrelov T? rr
dress, P. Riley, R. R. Webster. F. K
irpan, W. E. Kelly, A. l; Gravely, J.
Visitors from Texas
Mrs. G. L. Crawford is this week
entertaining her brother, Wm. Whit
field of El Dorado, Texas, her sister,
Miss Whitfield, of Lampasas, Texas,
and nephew. Will Holland, of Del
Itio, Texas.
a tin
HI
SO
EIG
LOCAL COPPER COMPANY
IS NOW BEING ORGANIZED
The page ad in this issue of the
Copper Era announces the biggest
thing , that has struck the Greenlee
county mining district for many
years. It means that another big
copper company will enter the local
lio'd TC' open up the rich mining
claims that are lying all over the
Jistrict, to employ hundreds of men
uitd add to the general prosperity of
the Clifton-Morenci mining district.
Prominent officials of all three of
the local copper companies are taking
an active part in organizing the new
encern v.-hich will be known as the
P. D. Extension Copper company
several Jerome capitalists are aiso
1 -r , , - x 1
interested in the proposition and this
is their first entrance into
tUis field
The company now has
44 claims
, -Pih. L, t f thi Zt
:ii-(f in the heart of the proved copper
bearing district of Greenlee county.
Many of the claims are almost sur
rounded by claims owned and being
worked by the Detroit Copper Co.
nnd the Arizona Copper Co. Engi
neering experts have carefully exam
ined all the properties and made ex
haustive tests and believe that the
ere veins now being worked by the
three big local companies extend into
tiie properties of the P
D. Extension
Copper Co.
W.I P. Weller, who has been as
sociated with the Phelps-Dodge Co.
for so many years at Morenci, has
resigned his position and will de
vote all his time to building up the
new copper company. He has been
made trustee until the organization
is effected and permanent officers
elected
D. Ex-
The treasury stock of the P
tension Copper company is not yet on
the market but will be offered in covery was reported to the authorl
liinited quantities shortly. Applica- ties and on Monday Constable Brad-
lion will also be made for listing on
the New York and Boston curb mark
cts. The 200,000 shares of pre-or-ganization
stock has all been subscrib
ed at 15c per share. Its par value is
51.00 and it is the belief of mining
experts in the district that it will
soon reach that point when the won
derful possibilities of the company are
realized by the investing public.
SHANNON PEOPLE IN
VESTING IN YAVAPAI
elapsed since the death evidently oc-
From authentic sources it wasicurred .it is doubtful if the circum
loarned that the Shannon Copper stances will ever be brought to light.
Company, of Clifton, is carrying on .
preliminary negotiations for taking ! here from Miami
over a copper property near Prescott. j Harry Whitacre, formerly in the
The locality of the mines was not giv-! f mploy of the Lamar Cobb Assaying
en publicity, however. The prospec-;nnd Engineering Co., arrived in
tive buying syndicate is one of the Clifton from Miami the latter part of
largest in copper producing circles of ; last week. Mr. Whitacre was called
the state, and it is stated the reports 1 1 Clifton on business before the
of its engineers were so satisfactory Superior Court and he expects to re
that direct negotiations between prin- turn, to his home in Miami the first
ciples are now going on. of next week.
GOLDROAD BONANZA j WHITE HILLS RESUMES
Kingman, Arizona. At the Gold- The old White Hills mine, one of
road Bonanza drifting continues on the most famous silver producers in
the 352-level. Crosscuts were start- Mohave county, is to resume opera
nd recently east and west. From i ;m within a month if plans outlined
the east crosscut drifting was started by R. T. Root, owner of the mine are
south a distance of 25 feet from the curried out. The White Hills mine
shaft. This drift has been advanced ' v.-ns discovered in 1S92, and worked
105 feet. The formation has changed by Root for a number of years. Root
from an andesite to a rhyolite, and ! finally sold the property to an Eng-
I'ssiiys tauen rrom iu teet in this tor
mation have ranged from $2.07 to
$1.50. Consulting Engineer Ralph A.
Meyer consider! th's a tpt remark -
;:b'.e show;n;; i i a formation named.
'I'
S3-"; r
i2.
THE "ARIZONA'S" SILVER
SERVICE COMING TO CLIFTON
The State Board of Trade, consist
ing of L. W. Mix, of Nogales, chair
man, Allen T. Bird of Nogales, secre
tary, and treasurer, W. E. Berg, Flag
staff, I. S. Cates, of Ray, T. E. Camp
bell of Phoenix, members, have been
exhibiting the massive silver service
that is to be presented to the battle
ship "Arizona" in the various cities
of the state.
A letter from Allen T. Bird to the
editor of the Copper Era, states that
the service will be on exhibition in
Clifton and Morenci next week. The
service will arrive in Clifton on Mon
day, Oct. 30th. with Mr. Bird in
1 rY,arr a -n A Yin .annAc a o n em't.
"f ."1 """.
able display place be secured for its
reception .
At Douglas, Bisbee, Globe, Miami,
Tnr cnn Pi-ccfnft phwnir anH TTln o-
sYTff the most orominentl iisolav wta-
start tne most prominent display win -
lows were tendered for the service.
it will be displayed here for a whole
week.
As the service will cost $10,000, a
subscription list will accompany it
and a committee will be appointed to
.nllont fun Ho tn ha gnnlioH tmua-rrta it a
collect funds to be applied towards its
purchase. All the big mining com
panies and business men where it has
been exhibited have contributed hand-
somely to the fund, and it is expected
that this section of the state will con
tribute its pro rata for this patriotic
presentation.
The service is a mammoth affair
and weighs nearly half a ton.
Body of Dead Mexican Found
rrl 1,0 hi h oh f o
Mexican was found the first of
LLiB
week lying in a disused tunnel, a
short distance above the Hagan
camp up the Frisco river. The dis-
berry went to the place to dispose
of the remains. The body was so
1 . .1 : .1 a . 1 a. z i 1, J
or hespX andUfrom a 1 taxations
ir had been lvintr in the tunnel for
Several months Nothing was foun"
en the noisnn nf thp dart man hv i "&" .. Hayaen was at nis Dest on tnis occa
cn tne person 01 tne aeaa man oy ti,iv, aA eta inert nlnthoa nr. nt tn the , ' ....
which he could be identified and his
identity remains a mystery. From
tne condition of the head which had
: boen crushed in it is thought that
!the man was murdered and his body
thrown in the tunnel to cover up the
crime. As so long a time has
Hsh syndicate for $1,600,000. After
five or six years Root again acntiired
ithe property. The ores run high in
' cii.rPI. prd coli. -shinmepts averaging
SJtiu a ton.
SOME THINGS HUGHES
WOULD HAVE DONE
Img less. He said he was accused by
' I his opponents of being a faddist in his
Charles Evans Hughe's would have policy in regard to prison reform, and
appojnted a capable Secretary of State he justified his actions on that sub
instead of a Bryan. I ject in very plain terms.
Mr. Hughes would have secured; The Governor's address made a good
the lives and property of Americans ; press ion, as the applause he re
in Mexico instead of waging war on 1 ctived on ' concluding plainly indi
Hverta and sacrificing American 1 cnted .
lives at Vera Cruz. Sidney P. Osborn, secretary of
Mr.-Hughes would have said "strict state, came next in order, and in a
accountability" and no Bryan would ; creditable and effective speech, de
have been ready to assure Ambass-t tai'ed the intricate duties of his of
ador Dumba that we didn't mean it. fice. the manner in which. it has been
When the Imperial German Embas-. conducted for the past five years, the
sy printed in the newspapers a warn-, economical system obtainine therein.
tag to Americans not to exercise their j citing various incidents of funds re
right to travel on the high seas, Mr. I.turned Into the treasury over and
wo.v ,ih h9o fnr the r.or.:..k. !!jti . js
; "X "UAZa
man Ambassador and notified mm
' hat " e ihreat to. imperil American
' " v CB uc "IM'"", ui wc wuum m-
stantly sever relations with Germany,
, . urha .iri i,Qo thon Wn
Mr. Hughes would have then been
at the precise point which Mf. Wil-ljrient.
son eventually reached. But it took chas. R. Howe, state tax commis
the sinking of the Lusitania and the j sioner, was the next speaker. Al
loss of over a hundred American lives ; though the subject of his discourse
Rinkines and losses of other
QUeM SinKingS ana losses Ol Oilier
and fifteen months filled with suDse -
American lives, to get Mr. Wilson
that far.
When Mr. Wilson finally told Ger
many that submarine murder must
cease, it ceased. When Mr. Hughes
at the mere threat to sink the Lust
tania, had told Germany that murder
must not occur it would never have
I occurred .
That is "what Mr. Hughes would
I haIf,do,ne'" , Qof
1 This is some of the doped bait cast
T, 1 . .5
P. anglers to catch gudgeons.
BODY OF SOLDIER FOUND
MUTILATED AT NOGALES
The mutilated
Phiflet, Co. K.,
body of George K.
Second California,
LTv 0,, weTk taTouttle Z
' Saturday of last week just outside of
j Jh l'
thigh and stained clothes point to the
soldier having been murdered. An
effort had been made, according to
the authorities to place the body in
such a position on the tracks as it
would appear that it had been run
over, but examination of the engine
of a troop train standing near by re
vealed no evidence. of this sort.
Three regulars, believed to have
been in Sheflet's company at a near
by bouse the night before, were ar
rested on suspicion of having knowl
edge of the death. One of the men
arrested carried an automatic with
an exploded shell.
THE BIG JIM MINE
On account of certain derogatory
reports circulated a few weeks ago
in a campaign to bear the stock of the
Big Jim mine, the management has
secretly put up a raise from the 400-
foot level.
It has reached a height
(,f 1;0 feet from that level and is in biles. It was learned that the ex
ore all the way. A crosscut there press clerk who was shot and killed
shows the width to be 14 feet and the 'was Norman and that the band of
values average $20 a ton and better ! robbers numbered six. The safe in
throughout. The bears alleged that the express car was blown to pieces.
: on account of there being no opening
in the ore above the 400 and none be -
low the 485 only that between the two
i levels could be taken into account in
reckoning the reserves.
DEMOCRATIC RALLY
ATTENDED BY
CROWD
One of the Largest Audiences Ever
Gathered in the Princess Theatre
Greets Democratic State Candidates
The big democratic rallv held in
the Princess theatre on Tuesday even
ing last was tne largest and most en
thusiastic gathering ever assembled
in Greenlee county.
For an hour before the arrival of
the candidates, (the theatre was so
crowded that scores of people were
unable to gain admission, hence were
j debarred the pleasure of hearing the
j orators of the occasion render the ac-
counts of their stewardship in the var-
ious positions of trust confided in
iinem oy tne Arizona electorate,
j While awaiting the arrival of the
j candidates the audience was enter
tained with a moving picture show,
j At 8 p. m. promptly the candidates
! appeared on the stage, and after a few
! announcements and preliminary re
marks, the 'chairman of the meeting,
P. Riley, introduced the first speaker
in me evening, ijovernor lieorge w .
P Hunt. The governor received a
perfect ovation as he stepped to the
footlights.
Governor Hunt's address was con
fined to the recital of his official acts
and accomplishments during the five
years of his incumbency, and a caus
tic arraignment of his critics. He
laid particular emphasis on the pro
gressive enactments placed on the
statutes, his economical handling of
state institutions, citing data to prove
his contentions, and challenging his
adversaries to make good their charg
es of incompetency and extravagance.
He told his audience that if elected
.1
'for the ensuing two years, he would
I continue in the ' course he has pur-
j sued in the past five, as governoi-
Tint nf A faction hut nf nil the npnnle
- - - 1 1- - ,
assuring the people ' of Arizona a:
square deal ; " he implied that cap
1 ital and labor would receive ' equal
'consideration, nothing more and noth-
1!. S": T
essary for maintaining efficiency. He
showed that his department was con-
QUCieQ On leSS man nail tne amount
appropriated for its use; a record
... s .1. .A..
unique in the annals of state Kovern-
was entirely statistical, it was listen-
ed to with intense interest. He dis
cussed taxation history from the
earliest territorial days down to the
present time, pictured the former un
iust and unequal methods of obtain
ing revenue for governmental pur
poses, and of hrg accomplishments
I since statehood was obtained, in de-
vising a system of equitable taxation
for state and county. Mr. Howe prov
ed himself a master of the subject dis
cussed. ' "
Hon. Carl Hayden, member of
congress for Arizona, was introduced
as the next speaker, and it was evi
dent from the manner in which he
was received that his friends are le
gion in this district.
I In one of the ablest speechea ever
I heard in Clifton, he rendered an ao-
count of his official acts in congress.
gave a detailed account of tne mea-
S b bene"Clal
to Arizona, and of others pending
fr her '.rther "flt!
sion, and tne reception given nim by
the people of Clifton after the meet
ing was an evidence that they appre-
iriated his efforts in progressive demo-
cratic legislation.
The oratory of the evening was con
cluded by Attorney General Wiley E.
Jones. It is needless to comment on
Mr. Jones' address, suffice it to say
he was there with "the goods," In
fact he completely outdid any of his
former efforts of his "24 years resi
dence in old Graham and young Green
lee counties."
A reception and social dance con
cluded the evening program.
BANDITS HOLD UP
SANTA FE EXPRESS
The Santa Fe Express train was
held up by bandits in Oklahoma on
the evening of the ISth. An ex
press messenger and a baggageman
were killed bv the robbers whn after
looting the train escaped in automo-
' Norman was riddled with buckshot,
' A larse posse of officers are out in
pursuit. It has not been ascertained
how much valuables or money the
highwaymen obtained.
