s
1
The
LATKA NEW
, J. s
4 -
and Advertiser.
SERIES VOL. XXIV. NO. 42.
PALATKA, FLORIDA, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 27. 1916.
11.00 Per Year.
QUALIFIED VOTERS
Where Styles Originate"
0
fa
mm,
Copyright Hurt BchatfaorA Marx
Cool Weather and a Fall Suit Go Together
VARSITY "55"
"The Young Fella" Pinch 5ack Suit. The
pride of Hart, Schaffner & Marx.
ALL COLORS-Blue, Grey and Fancy.
Truly yours,
Fearnside Clothing Co.
MEETINGSTO BE HELD
During the Coming Week to
Be Addressed by Local
Candidates.
The Putnam county democratic cam
paign committee appointed by Chair
man J. 11. ilaughton of the Democrat
ic Executive Committee at the meet
ing of that committee last week, has
arranged a number of meetings to be
held in he county during the coming
week.
These meetings will be addressed
by Senator Aliddleton, Representatives
.Mckenzie and Tilghman, County
Judge-elect, J. C. Calhoun, lion. S. J.
llilburn and others, and all candidates
for county offices are expected to be
present to say a word in behalf of the
regular nominees of the party
The meetings have been appointed
as follows:
Francis (Silver Lake) Tuesday at
noon, Oct. 31st.
liostwick, Wednesday noon, Nov. 1.
Florahome, Thursday night, Nov. 2.
Hodman, Friday night, Nov. 3rd.
Palatka (Court House) Saturday
night, Nov. 4th.
it is possible that some additional
speakers sent by the State Executive
Committee may appear at some of
these meetings in addition to the reg
lar county democratic candidates, a
requisition for them having already
been made.
A Long Trip for Ladies.
Two ladies registered and spent
I Monday night at the Saratoga Hotel.
Ihey were registered simply as Helen
C. Wadhams and .Mary C. Wright,
Milford, Connecticut. They had driv
en through from their home town and
their destination was Lake Como, Fla.,
a pretty little winter resort some
twenty miles south (by road) from
l'alatka. They took an early start
and should have been at tl.eir desti
nation by it o'clock Tuesday morning.
These ladies traveled in a Ford roads
ter, and had been eleven days making
the trip.
His Old-Time Oratory.
The Gainesville Sun of yesterday in
telling of Ck1 democratic rally at Mi
canopy on Tuesday evening says:
"The last speaker was Hon. K. W.
Davis., one ot the ablset campaign
ers in Florida, who reviewed the po
litical history of the State, showed
what the party had done for the
State and Nation, compared Knott
and Catts as men and citizens, and
appealed for harmony within the
i party.
j "Several interruptions cr.nie ironi
jthe Catls' supporters during
speaking, but the meeting was very
successful throughout. Col. Davis
j convinced his hearers that he had not
! lost the tire of his old time oratory."
Reaches Total of '2,301, of
Which 1,763 are White;
and 538 Colored.
T5
That STATIONERY from R 0 W T 0 N'S means
it you are getting the best your money can buy.
Sen writing think of
WHITING'S
"THE WRITING PAPER SUPREME"
S POPULAR BECAUSE IT'S THE BEST
The Point hi r SI on
THE SUN'S
ONLY RIVAL
s the electric li.aht. It is the nearest ap
proach to dax light mail has succeeded in
producing If von arc not usin.4 eli-ctri
light in vour home, store, oilice or factory
5 arc "behind the age. Let us give you
a lighting plan that will give you the most
illumination at the littlest cost.
PALATKA GAS LIGHT &
FUEL CO.
PHONE 328.
The Same Loyal Democrat.
Hon. Kobt. W. Davis (Our Dob) has
tendered his services to the Alachua
County Democratic Club and will
make a number of speeches in the
county in behalf of the Democratic
nominees during the next two weeks.
Except for the fact that his official
duties require his presence in Gaines
vile during certain hours each day in
the week Col. Davis would have ten
dered his services to the State Com
mittee to speak in behalf of Wm. V.
Knott and the other Democratic nomi
nees throughout the State, and no one
regrets more than lie that he has to
co'nlinc his work to Alachua county.
Dob Davis responded to the call of
his country in the sixties, being one
of the youngest men to enlist in the
Confederate army, and has never fail
ed to respond to the call of the Dem
ocratic party, for the nominees of
which he has voted and labored since
he became of age. Gainesville Sun.
Preoaredness !
P the wathhworo of the hour
Peronlly, "preparedneM" .hould interest you. Renting 'one of our
SAFF nFPQSIT BOXES
Sir? 'yitem) anJ Positing there in your Deed., Mortgage.. Insurance Paper.
"Jnd other valuable property would be "prepar.dne.. aga.n.t the low ot
W,C.'."r."of boxe.that rent for $3.00, $5.00 and $8.00 per year.
Capital and Surplus of $148,000.00 is our Ruarantee to
I Re.pertfully.
f PUTNAM NATIONAL BANK OF PALATKA
Von Fngelken is Active.
Col. F. .T. H. von Engelken, of East
l'alatka. director of the United States
Mint, is not confining his activities
to the work of his oti'ice, but is just
now accompanying the Farm Loan
Hoard on its southern trip by invita
tion, and is to participate in the hear
ings before the board at the different
points including Jacksonville, rrom
Jacksonville Col. von Engelken ex
nects to come home for a few days, j
tin inursunv oi iasi wui.lv tun. lun
Capt. Henis Petermann, supervisor
of registration, has only this week
completed weeding out the dead and
removed and compiling an up-to-now
registration list of those who are
qualified to vote in Putnam county in
the approaching general election.
The list of qualified voters will be
published this week in the Times
Herald. Those names which have
been stricken from the list are pub
lished in another column of this pa
per. This list consists of those vo
ters who have died, or have removed
during the past four years.
The qualified list shows a total of
2,301 voters, of which number 1,7G3
are white, and 538 are colored.
The number of negro voters will be
a disappointment to many of that race.
Several hundred more had paid their
poll tax and thought themselves qual
ified, but somehow they failed to reg
ister. That is true to a lesser degree
among white voters. They got tile
notion that because they registered
for the primary that was all they had
to do. The .News has been pointing
out this false notion for several weeks.
Now and then you will find a negro
who is a democrat, but they are few.
Those who registered in the primary
uooks as democrats have been long in
the land and look upon the democratic
party as tiieir friend. It hasn't been
trying to use them. It has stood for
getting them a fair deal, but draws
the line at elevating them to official
(dace, it isn't asking their votes un
der the false notion that they are to
get something in return ti'.at looks like
an office. The democratic party
pledges that the negro shall have a
square deal and that he shall have
every opportunity to make of himself
a useful citizen; it opens to him tne
door of opportunity, Put not the door
of official place. For this one reason
he has not been a democrat, if for no
other. The negro is a republican be
cause that party feeds him on promis
es. They are false promises, of
course, but the negro hasn't fully
realized that yet. Once in a while he
gets an inkling mat ne is merely oe
ing used by designing politicians, and
begins to bolt, but he's soon won
back by more false promises and the
story of Abe Lincoln's Emancipation
Proclamation. He prefers to make
his. bed with republican:; .'.mi sinners.
.Maybe when he divides into sepa
rate political camps the white man
will divide, but just now the great
bulk of Florida and other southern
states' white men are democrats.
When you see a white republican put
him down as a member of the federal
republican machine. Though here and
there you will find one that was born
that way and can't get out of the re
publican habit.
Democrats r.s a rule will support
the party nominees; they look upon
an independent as a down-and-outer
who hasn't awakened to his real con
ditio;;. They are sorry for him and
show their charity by listening pa
tiently to his tale of woe. But they
rarely help him with a vote.
The Putnam county registration list
looks like a big democratic vote this
year, but it isn't as good as it looks.
, This is a presidential year and great
'quantities of republican money has
been sent into this and other southern
state-- with the view of breaking demo
cracy's hold.
Men who are willing to listen to
reason know that there was no other
purpose in the campaign of Billy
Park.-r and those northern politeans
whom he has been representing, then
to break up the democratic party.
RAKIHG FOOTER
Absolutely Pure
No Alum No Phosphate
FAIL PWffi CONTEST
To Be Held in Palatka Nov.
4th List of Prizes
Offered.
Miss Josephine Sipprell, Home De
monstration Agent for the Girls Can
ning Club work in Putnam couty, an
nouces that
The annual fall contest for the Can
ning Club girls of Putnam county
will be held at board of trade rooms,
Saturday, Nov. 4th, 1916. All enroll
ed club girls are requested to attend
and bring an exhibit if possible. All
record books and essay booklets must
be sent in at least three days before
the contest, that they may be properly
graded.
All who are sending in exhibits,
please have them in by evening of
Nov. 3rd, in order that they may be
arranged.
During the past few months the fol
lowing donations have been made for
prizes to the Girls Canning Club:
East Florida Savings & Trust Co.,
$5.00 in gold.
Putnam National bank, 5.00, gold.
Earnest Co., (mdse), $5.00.
Krowning-Fearnside Co., $5.00.
J. H. Yelvertcn, Jr., (mdse) $5.00.
Tilrhman Hardware Co., aluminum
coffee perculator.
Drs. Johnson and Wslch, chair.
C. E. Rowton, No. 1 Brownie camera
Miss Kate Lucas (mdse) $1.00.
City Drug Store, box stationery.
Economy Grocery, $1.00.
Ackerman-btewart, bottle perfu
mery. J. T. Bond (mdse) $1.50.
C. J. Smith (jewelry) $2.00.
To the first prize winner of Putnam
county Mrs. Okel Painter Williams of
Jacksonville, is giving a gold watch,
or it's equivalent in value.
The Woman's Club of Palatka gen
erously donated $14 toward sending a
girl to the short course at Tallahassee.
Prize List Putnam Co. Canning Club.
Prize 1 Gold watch.
Prize 2 Money for short course,
$20.00.
Prize 3 $5 in gold and box of sta
tionery. Prize 4 $5.00 in gold.
Prize 5 $5.00 in mdse. .
Prize $2.00 in mdse.
Prize 7 $1.50 in mdse.
Prize 8 Bottle of perfume.
Special Prizes.
1 Best loaf of bread Aluminum cof
fee perculator,
2 Best cap and apron $1.00 mdse.
3 Fancy work Camera.
4 Club exhibit $5.00 in mdse.
5 Essay book Chair.
The school board furnishes club pins
to girls sending in good record books.
There will be speaking by local in
terested persons at board of trade Sat
urday a. m., Nov. 4th. Miss Harictte
B. Layton of Tallahassee will also be
here.
Everyone is most cordially invited
fo come and see the exhibit and hear
the .speaking.
A DIRTY ATTACK Gli
And Senator Fietcher Made
by Catts' Principle
Organ.
The
Presbyterian Church.
Services next Sunday at 11
m.
the "menace" of I and 7:30 n. m.. conducted by Rev. C.
the Catholic church was used to play i M. Alford, D. D. Sunday school will
upon the prejudices of the ignorant, ! meet at 0:45 a. m., superitendent, F.
the unthinking and the narrow-minded j T. Merrill. Midweek prayer service on
who harbored these fears. A secret j Wedneeday evening at 7:30 o'clock,
orcaization was used to bind men to- A cordial welcome to all thse ser
gethcr. The headquarters o' the or-: vices. Dr. Al ford's Sunday mornimr
der is in Philadelphia, and a paper ', topic will bo, "The Pattern of Life."
called The American Citizen was sent Evening topic, "Watching Christ."
broadcast through the state to stir up :
.strife and cater to religious prejudice, j Honoring Mrs. Ashby.
Well, we have the prejudice and it T,lp j a(i;?s Ai(I socjctv 0f the Pap
as teen spread out. among i.iu t;st church tendered their retiring
Fm'olken submitted to an interview ; white democratic voters of the cotm-, pj.p,j(ent.i -r,.S- j. -p. Ashby, and her
in The Washington Times, which same ty and has caught some of them m the , 11)ntllpr Mrs. Anna Regan, a farewell
is sent all over the country oy ma i net (,r independence . ., . , i party last Friday afternoon, at tne
Associated Press, and in wlncli ne i that toey are oegmn mg iu v ; home of Mrs. Munch. The affair was
uialvzed the present soaring of prices that the net is really matte oi inae- ; pl.lml0(i for these ladies who left Tues-
as due to the prosperity oi tne nation, i penueut su-iiiks num. w
"With more gold in its vaults," said to get through the meshes. Hundreds
he "more nionev cicrulated, and the have succeeded. They now see that
' ,:,.,tf ovnort 'trade in history, the the man Catts is an independent can-
, .... , ...v ni i. .1
United States todav is at once reap- didate, ami your average r 101 ma u -m-
(jiuii-u ... . . i:,.i ,.,rr.Vii- with nnnri-
i e-olden harvest ana 10 mix uie ocrat nas muu mi""". ;
v... (V, ;r.o,-. tlip niner ,.;!,.: nf that, breed. A republican
day for their new home in Lakeland.
The society presented Mrs. Ashby
with a cut glass basket filled with
carnations as a token of appreciation.
The guests were served cream and
cake after a pleasant afternoon.
me
metapnor -jm 1 '' : v" . ' ,f nrint.n; he at least
Ik "" the lugn cost oi moi. can i'-- " "i"" " t".---i"-!
..'ti,.. h.vwnur of living." he said, ; belongs to an organization of men who
"is i erev'me of our own creation. .work for certain principles.
J '' .!!.. n :.,l.Jn( Vio'c Hist .1 Rfi
. 1.. ,tti!i Vmitnl iitilied : " , whh an exaggerated notion of j nam House, and after a short business
itr construction in' the past has been his own importace, and they pass
iiitcd larsrciv aoroao. our ; mm r
Woman's Club Meeting.
Rut- the ! There will ho a meeting of the Wo-
selfish indi- man's club this afternoon in the Put-
recn
. ' ti.r w-o lionn I Aiv. TCnntt,. the recular democratic
u U meet thrcus'tomary out- nominee for Governor, will carry Pu -flow
of monev required to pay our in- ! nam county by a big majority, no mat
u ;l, Ii" Tn foreign countries. ter what these loud-voiced fanatics
"The sud. on reversal of this condi- j may say to the contrary. The editor
tioi i the retention of interest pay- of their organ in this county is not
Vc t home coupled with a rever- even a citizen of the United States
f "of the " al t?adPe conditions, pre- and has only lived in the country a
ents an unusual and extraordinay few years. W hen he gets to know the
o-nnnme nroblem. For the present people oi ruwam i "7"' "
session in which the subject of the
club house will be discussed. Mrs. H.
M. de Montmollin will have charge of
the civics program and promises a
treat for the members. She will pre
sent a resume of the previous work;
results accomplished, and her hopes
for future successes.
Miss Mulholland will follow with a
paper of interest to all on "Civic
Government," and Miss Ida Leib will
read a naner on "Sanitation."
: problem. r or The members are urged to be
we are reaping a mon a fake abrm to scat. , prompt in attendance at 3 o'clock
rodigTl hand." ter them politically.
I sharp.
The Jacksonville Free Press, prin
cipal organ of the Catts' organization
in this State, has made a most unjus
tifiable attack on Gov. Trammell, one
of the cleanest men in Florida public
life, and perhaps the best loved among
all our public men.
In an editorial in the Free Press on
October 12th, this scurrilous attack is
made on Gov. Trammell:
"FLORIDA HAS IN EFFECT
A DESPOTIC THRONE; AND
UPON IT SITS AS RULER
SOME PUPPET OF DESPOT
ISM AND PERFIDY, PLIANT
AS POTTER'S CLAY TO THE
WILES OF THE DEVIL. GOV.
TRAMMELL MAY NOT BE A
FIGURE HEAD, BUT HE IS
MERELY THE BALIFF OF THE
INVISIBLE THRONE OF A DI
ABOLICAL DESPOTISM AND
THE OFFICE OF GOVERNOR
HERE AT ANY TIME MIGHT
BE CALLED UPON TO EN
FORCE THE MANDATES OF
THAT INVISIBLE GOVERN
MENT WHICH FLORIDA IS
NOW RESOLVED TO OVER
TURN AT ANY COST."
Now. v.'htit do vou croo.l Floridinns
think of that? This the driv?l of
a recent importation into the State
who is spending republican money in
an effort to break up t'..i Democratic,
or whit 2 r.inn's nartv. Not contint
with this vicious attack o-i Gov. Tram
mell. he makes the foUrr-i:'"- t!vo., t0
Senator Fletcher, a man who for ten
year hr.o graced the United States
Sen:'.1? and whose nhilllv has been
recognized the world over r.s one of
the greatest of our American states
men, a patriot and a man of exempla
ry private life.
Here is the threat which appeared
as an editorial in this Free Press of
Jacksonville, this Catts organ, on Oct.
19th:
"IF SENATOR FLETCHER
OPENS HIS MOUTH OR LIFTS
HIS PEN TO DEFEND THIS
STEAL OR PARTICIPATE IN
THIS FRAUD BY SAYING OR
ASSENTING TO THE STATE
MENT THAT CATTS TS
NOT THE TRUE NOMINEE;
OR THAT KNOTT TS THE
TRUE NOMINEE. WHY, MR.
FLETCHER WILL NOT GO
BACK TO THE SENATE. GET
THAT?"
These two editorials taken in con
nection with Mr. Catts' previous vio
lent asaults on President Wilson, his
continued failure to support the Dem
ocratic Presidential electors in this
state; the further fact that Catts'
campaign literature and similar lit
erature in behalf of Coffin, the Prohi
bition party candidate for Congress,
against Frank Clark is being circulat
ed in the latter's district by the same
persons; the further fact that Catts
campaign literature in behalf of John
K. Chenev. Republican candidate for
the Supreme Bench, against Judge R.
laylor, Democratic candidate, is
being circulated and distributed bv
the same individuals, and the further
fact that Billy Parker is advocatin?
the election of the Republican presi
dential ticket in this State, shows con
clusively that the Catts' organizaior.,
while devoting its principal energy to
the election of its gubernatorial can
didate, it is also undoubtedly doing
everything in its power to tear down,
di.-rupt. and destroy the Democratic
party in this State.
The New Order.
The Palatka Gas Light & Fuel Co.
en Wednesday afternoon completed
the cut-over which changes its elec
tric current from the old 133 cycle
system to the new standard CO cycle
system. Work in preparation for thi3
transfer has been going on for some
time.
The change was made under direc
tion of C. F. Baker, chief engineer of
the Southern Utilities Co., R. E. L.
Mann, local manager,, and M. H.
Hummell the electrical superintend
ent. The company is being congrat
ulated upon the success of this transfer.
How to Do Your Own Plumbing With
out Calling an Expert.
When the sink, bathtub or wash
bowl lias become clogged one may
easily remedy this instead of sending
for the plumber. Take a piece of old
garden hose the desired length, fit one
end over the faucet and the other
over the drain, so that no air escapes.!
Now turn on the water. The direct
procure will remove the obstruction
wiiliiu a few minutes.
i
t"-
h.
.1 of
... -
''.in
