reE o wosso time
PAGES 1 TO 8
"OWOSSO THE CITY OF PUSH"
VOL. XXXVIII
OWOSSO. MICHIGAN. OCT. 27, 1916.
N. 31
FORDNEY IS NEEDED.
Editorial from tne Grand Raplda Herald.l
The eighth congressional district of Michigan owes a duty to its
country as well as to Itself in the fast approaching November congres
sional elections.
- Congressman Joseph W. Fordney is the Republican candidate for re
election. If the next house is Republican as seems as probable as any
thing humanly can Mr. Fordney, if re-elected by his constituency, will
become chairman of the all-Important committee on ways and means.
The ways and means committee of the house will initiate the new
tariff law to succeed the miserable Wllson-Underwood failure. This new
tariff lawwill be the most important piece of fiscal legislation in our his
tory for decades. It will largely determine whether or not the United
8tates shall be bulwarked against the floods of cheap foreign importation
which will overwhelm our markets when Europe's soldiers become arti
sans again.
With not more than one possible exception (and even that is doubtful)
' Congressman Joseph Fordney is the best posted protective tariff expert
in the lower house, present or prospective. No amateur, though of supe
rior intentions, could approximate one-fiftieth of his utility in this great
' problem of the Immediate future.
.Therefore, the eighth congressional district confronts a national as
well as a merely local need when it chooses between Congressman Ford
ney and his opponent. We hope the voters In Clinton, Gratiot, Ionia,
. Montcalm, Saginaw and ShiawasBee will take this plea to heart.
$83,700 PAID FOR LOSSES
Perry. Damage Cases Settled by Rail
road and Insurance Companies.
The suits aggregating over $100,000
begun" by residents of - Perry against
the Grand Trunk Railroad are at aa
end, the Continental Insurance Com
pany haying turned over checks total
ing $83,700 to the losers by the fire two
years ago which was started by sparks
from an engine. The amount received
in insurance was deducted from the set
inent basis amount which was seventy
five per cent of the amounts claimed.
WAliTS $8000 FOR 1HJURY.
Delmore Butts Sues Fred Bartell as
t Result of Collision.
, Delmore Butts, a laborer living in
Middletown, has filed suit agalnsVFred
Bartell of O wosso, claiming $5000 'dam
ages for injuries received August 12,
when he was knocked from his 'bicycle
-,by a motorcycle ridden by Bartell, hia
lira ttfmr si no 1 fart lT Tflf povArni nTl
and permanent injuries claimed. Bar
tell states that Butts, after turning out
for him, became confused and turned
back in front of him. Pardee & Day
represent Mr. Butts.
Improvement Association Meeting.
An open meeting of the O wosso Im
provement Association will be held in
the armory, Wednesday evening, Nov.
1, 7:30 o'clock, at which time matters
concerning the welfare of Owosso will
be considered. One of the principal
topics will be the question of purchas
ing the land about the armory for a
park.
Mr. Grosvenor Dawe of Washington,
D. C, now with the KcKeand Service
Co. of Indianapolis, Ind., who spoke at
the luncheon of the Owosso Improve
ment Association Tuesday, will be pres
- ent with a message which no one inter
ested at all In the future welfare of
Owosso can afford to miss. . It is ex
pected that short talks will be made by
several gentlemen and ladies of this
city. Everyone is invited to be in at
tendance. Republican Automobile Parade,
Owosso. Saturday, Nov.. 4th. A
OUR EXCELLENT
thus furthur
SENATOR FOSTER
1 f
why should he not? His strongest political
opponents will admit that he has earned
another term, and, if they are real honest,
will not deny that he will get it by a fine
majority. John always did run well; he
is in better trim than ever this year to do
so atter following the plow, cultivator and
various other farm implements over his
big, paying farm. Not a flaw can be picked
in his record in the last legislature, and his
experience will be worth much to the peo
ple of this county in the future. When you
think of this legislative team let the pic
ture of our magnificent armory come into
your mind. More money is needed to make
it just as it should be. Foster and Martin
are the bovs to shout and vote for. Both
will be easy winners. Neither is afraid to
president, and that he believes thoroughly
the greatest of which is PROTECTION.
REDUCE NUMBER OF
ROAD COMMISSIONERS
Believing that one commissioner could
perform all the duties of the road com
mission with clerical assistance, the
board of supervisors cut down the
number or road commissioners from
three to two after Jan. 1. 1017, and to
one after January 1, 1910, at the
session Friday- No successor will be
elected to Harry Byerly whose term
expires next January, or to Amos Par
menter whose term expires Jan. 1, 1919.
Cono. Joseph W.. Fordney,
At Owosso Armory, Saturday, Nov 4.
mum
Befriended Ltborer a Thief.
A stranger befriended by Nell Han
sen, who works at the Parker Monu
ment works, stole a watch, suit of
clothes, razor and other articles to the
value of $80 from W. J. Rouse, a
boarder at the home of Mrs. Sarah
Trafford, Corunna aveDue, when left
alone at the house last Thursday. No
trace of the thief has been found.
Pay Your Pledge for State Wide
Prohibition.
The Committee for State Wide Prohi
bition needs at once every dol'ar pledged
by residents of Shiawassee county for
its work. If you have not already paid
your subscription in full, please do so
without further delay. Remittances
should be sent to A. P. Loomls, Tossing
Bldg., Lansing, or to E. O Dewey,
County Manager, Owosso, Mich.
LEGISLATIVE TEAM.
Senator Charles W. Foster, of the Fourteenth dis
trict, has no Democratic opponent the first time that
such a situation has ever developed in the district
and it is well for the opposing party that it is bo, for
with his record in theN senate two years ago, no one
could have defeated Senator Foster for re-election. His
work in the past and the commanding situation he will
occupy in the next legislature are a source of satisfac
tion to those who believed two years ago that he should
be the party nominee. Shiawassee county Democrats
can well afford to put a cross opposite his name, and
compliment him.
Representative John Y. Martin is as certain to go
back to the legislature as election day is to come. And
.
REPRESENTATIVE MARTIN
tell you that he Is for Hughes for
in the polich s of the Republican party
.
WILL BDILD I1E7 FACTOR!
Standard Machinery Company' Needs
More Room For Rapidly Growing
Business.
The Improvement Association has
placed its approval on a plan of the
Standard Machine Company, to sell
to local capital $12,000 worth of pre
ferred stock in the company, the
money to be used in erecting a modern
plant for the company, on South
Washington street, just south of
Brandel's boiler shop. Half of the
stock has already been subscribed,
two local capitalists "declaring ;that
they would each take $3,000 worth..
It is the desire of the company to
sell the stock as soon as possible that
work on the new building may be
started at once. The company is
greatly cramped in its present quar
ters on East Comstock street and must
have more room. j
The backing of the Improvement
Association was not sought by the
company but was offered after the
association had heard that the com
pany planned to leave the city. The
industrial committee conferred with
the members of the company, and af
ter going into the proposition made
by them, and investigating thoroughly
every side of the matter, recommended
to the association that the concern be
given the full support of the organiza
tion. ;
The plan of the company as ex
plained by K. W. Brown, secretary
and treasurer, is to build a machine
shop, two stories high and 40x120
feet in dimensions, facing Washigton
street, and a foundry 50x80 feet in
dimensions, facing the Grand Trunk
tracks, making an L-shaped plant. The
foundry will be built in such a man
ner that an addition can be made if
necessary. ,
The machine company came here a
few months ago from Bay City and
bought out J. B. E. Castree, then em
ploying four men. Since that time its
business has grown steadily, and now
it employes 23 men. Forty men will
be employed from the first in the new
plant. The officers of the company aru
J. C. Fetter, president ; J. A. Radford,
vice preside'nt, and E. W. Brown, sec
retary and treasurer. Both Messrs.
Fetter and Radford are practical ma
chinists, while Mr. Brown handles the
business end of the concern's affairs.
Mr. Fetter was with the M. Garland
company of Bay City for 22 years, in
the shop, while Mr. Brown was on the
road for the same company for nearly
28 years. Mr. Radford was foreman
in the plant of the McKinnon 3ianu
facturing Company, of Bay City, for
several years.
The company is to later redeem the
stock under tlTe terms of contracts to
bo made with the buyers.
Will Buy Roller and Soarifier.
The report uf the road and bridge
committee of the board of supervisors
which recommended the purchase of a
road roller and scarifier at a cost of
$3,500, was adopted Friday. The scari
fier is similar to a drag with an attach
mentLfor forcing stones to the edge of
the road. The report also provided a
fond of 1,000 for labor for assistance
in making surveys. Five miles of road
will be built under the old system next
year and many miles under the new
petition road district law.
Surprise Fellow Member.'
The board of supervisors helped Su
pervisor Guy L. Braden of Burns town
ship, celebrate hit birthday Friday, at
his home, leaving Corunna in automo
biles after Mr. Braden bad taken a
train for Cohoctah, and arriving ahead
of him. A bountiful dinner was served
after which the members presented Mr.
Braden with a fine leather rocker and
enjoyed talks by all the members
present. 1 '
Eight Banks Will Have County De
posits. The board of supervisors instructed
County Treasurer Richardson to de
posit the money of the county in eight
banks, at Saturday's session. ' A check
ing account of f 15,000 will be kept in
the Old Corunna State Bank and the
balance will be kept in banks with in
terest paid on dally balances, as fol
lows: Owosso Savings Bank, 8 per cent;
Citizens' Savings' Bank, 3 per cent;
First Commercial of Durand, 3 percent;
j Old Cornnna State, 81 per cent; State
Sayings Bank of Owosso, 8 per cent;
State Bank of Perry. 3 per cent; State
Bank of Byron, 8 per cent; Shiawassee
County Bank of Durand, 3 percent
Owosso Beaten at Mason.
The Owosso high school foot ball
, team suffered its first defeat, SAturaay,
to its hoodoo team, the Mason; high
school at Mason, 82 to 0.
Shall the City Purchase Land About
Armory for Park? J
. . The City Commission has again given .
the citizens of Owosso all legal voters
and women who own taxable property
the opportunity to decide whether they j
wish to bond the city for $6,500 to put-1
chase all the vacant land about the
armory for park purposes. The land In j
question extends from the residence of ,
C. M. Miller on the north to the old I
brewery building on the south, back to
the river, making in air about three
acres of land. Just what the property
will cost is not known but in any event
not to exceed the amount of the pro
posed bond issue . can be expended by
the city. The land cannot be bought
for the $0,500 but in addition to 'this
sum the Commission will be givn $4,500
by Mr. A. M. Bentley who has renewed
his former offer to give that amount for
the purchase of the property nnder cer
tain conditions, one of which is that it
shall always be used for park purposes
only; the other relates to the price to
be paid for the land. At the meeting
held in the armory last week when re
ports were made by those who attended
the recreation and play-grounds na
tional congiess in Grand Rapids, Mayor
DeYonng made several statements
which should be kuown by all voters:
First, that every dollar of the city
money if the bonds are voted would
be expended only forthe purchase and
improvement of the land; second, that
if it Is found impossible to purchase
the property at a price the Commission
deemed fair, it was the intention to
begin court proceedings to have the
same condemned, in whicn case a jury
of twelve freeholders would fix the
price. In making these statements he
said he spoke for himself personally and
for Commissioners Hanscom and Rose
year, so that it was really an official
ntterance and the people can depend
npon it.
Probably very few people, If any,
have ever stopped to consider how little
the cost will be to each individual tax
payer if bonds to the amount of $0,500
are issued. The following statement
from Mayor De Young tells the story:
Armory park bonds, payable $500 '.
each year..'... ; ...$ 0,500
Total interest 2 275
Total Interest and principal ..... 8,775
Average annnal payment. 675
Valuation of the city $9,000,000
Annnal cost per $1,000 on assessed
valuation 7cts
Total cost for $1,000 valuation. . 97 Jets
James De Young.
- In other words for each thousand dol
lars assessed valuation, a taxpayer will
be called upon to pay seven and one
half cents a year or a total of ninety
seven and a half centsin the thirteen
years the bonds will run.
Is there a taxpayer in Owosso un
willing to pay less than a dollar In thir
teen years to buy the property for a
park? There should not be.
CONGRESSMAN FORDNEY
To Be In Shiawassee County on Satur
day, Nov. 5 Big Round-Up Rally
in Owosso During Afternoon
and Evening.
Invitations have gone ont from Chair
man Collins of the Republican County
Committee to the Republicans of tie
county to hitch np their automobiles on
Saturday of next week and bring a load
of their friends to Owosso to wind np
the campaign with a big afternoon meet
ing to be addressed by Congressman
Fordney and other prominent speakers
in the Armory. In the evening a meet
ing will also be held at the, same place,
when it is expected that an out of the
state good speaker and possibly Mr.
. Fordney will be present. It Is more
. than possible that Mr. Fordney will
make an antomubbe trip to some of the
villages of the connty during the fore
noon, but this will depend npon circum
stances and will be announced later.
The best way, however, will be to join
the crowd and come to Owosso,
Saginaw tins entertained.
Owosso Lodge of Elks had Saginaw
lodge brothers as guests Tuesdny even- J duty; further, no one can truthfully say
ing. the visiting lodge officers doing the a word to his discredit. Honest, corn
work of initiating twp candidates in the' petent, dependable, not afraid to tell
presence of a crowded lodge room of 'any man where he stands upon any
members and visitors. The Saginaw
Elks arrived at 5:50 and were served
with buffet luncheon. After the of his party.
lodge wotk a banqnet was seryed, after j - -
which, with G. P. Fiegel acting as Fordney In Clinton County,
toastmaster. a most Interesting program ' Congressman Fordney, Wm. M. Smith
of talks and music was carried out, the (generally called plain Bill Smith), the
Saginaw brothers being excellent enter county candidates, and possibly Hon.
talners. P. V. Gadola, of Owojso, who. A. E. Sleeper, candidate for governor,
has just returned from seiyice on the are to tour Clinton county on Tuesday
Mexican border, gave an Interesting and Wednesday i ext. At 4 p. m. Tues
talk on experiences with the troops, day they will speak in Elsie, and on
After the program wns conclnded the Wednesday evening in Ovid. ThU will
Elks were guests at the Utraod theatre give Fairfield and Middlebury Repnbli
at the first production of J. O. Cnr- cans, or any other who may wish, a
wood's "The Last Man." chance to hear these gentlemen.
Worth Careful Thought
Do you read the label to know whether
your baking powder is made from cream
of tartar or, on the other hand, from alum
or phosphate?
Royal Baking Powder is made from
' cream of tartar, derived from grapes, and
adds to the food only wholesome qualities.
Other baking powders contain alum or
phosphate, both of mineral origin, and
used as substitutes for cream of -tartar
because of their cheapness.
Never sacrifice quality and healthnil
ness for low price.
ROYAL BAKING POWDER CO,
New York
"When the Smoke Is Gone."
This sounds like William McKln
ley, Jr., who was chairman of the
committee on ways and means of the
fifty-first house of representatives:
"I believe the great American mar
kets, destined to be the greatest in
the world when the present war is
ended, should be protected against
foreign competition and reserved for
the use of the American wage earner,
farmer and manufacturer."
But it is the langnage of Joseph W.
Fordney, candidate for reelection
from the eighth congressional district
of Michigan. Mr. Forduey adds:
"Don't let the smoke from the Am
munition factories hide the facts, for
you will want these markets when
that smoke is gone "
Joseph W. Fordney will be the
chairman of the committee on ways
and means of the house of represen
tatives of the sixty fifth congress. So
mote It be! American Economist.
Edmund R. Vinoent Deserves to Be
Elected Register Middlebury
Township Republicans Should
Be Recognized.
Rarely ever Is It possible to find a
township anywhere that has as regu
larly reported a majority for the Repub
lican ticket as has Middlebury. Since
the birth of the party some of the Vin
cent family has helped to send the glad
tidings on election night to swell the
majority for the nominees from presi
dent down. Middlebury Republicans
have had little recognition in all these
years for this good work. There is
now, however, an opportunity for Re
publican to eay thank you by voting
for Edmund R. Vincent for register of
deeds a man who has for more than a
quarter of a century done bis full share
to help In a personal waybesides vot-
Edmund R. Vincent.
ing for them all the nominees on his
ticket. Dut that is not all. Mr. Vin
cent is well qualified for the position he
seeks. Eight years clerk of his town-
ship, twelve years its representative on
the board of supervisors, he has never
once been fonnd remiss in doing his full
' pobllo question, Mr. Vincent deserves
j and should receive the united support
i i " ! ?
, ,1-' - j ,' ,
ty '"1
i mLJ
EXPERT EXAMINES OWOSSO
Finds Progressive Spirit and
Accomplishment; Sees Need
of Cleaning Up.
RIVER AND ALLEYS
COULD BE IMPROVED
Grosvenor Dawe, of Washington,
D. C, who has been retained for
three months by the McKeand Ser
vice company of Indianapolis, tfc
visit such commercial organizations
In the middle west as desire to use
his analytical powers, concluded his
two days' visit to Owosso on Tues
day. Mr. Dawe has analyzed the condl-"
tions of more than 200 cities. lie
was the originator of the Southern
Commercial Congress and one of five
to work out the basis of the Chamber
of Commerce of the United States.
He therefore speaks with unusual
authority.
Tralse For City.
He said in part, hre: "Reaching
Owosso Sunday night after dark, I
knew at once that I was In a city of
up-and-doing, for a long 'detour was
necessary to avoid a block torn up
for paving. The first impression
was a correct on. I sensed that as
fast as public opinion will approve,
your leading men are trying to
make Owosso the best little city on
the Michigan map. This is a wor
thy ambition, for no one elso will do
for Owosso except those of Owosso
who are up and doing.
"The indolent and the doubters
who have had a very low opinion of
Owosso's future, need oly to tco
back a few years to find it un paved
or poorly paved, unllghted except in
spots, holes in tho ma!; -reets and
a general air of unflnlsn.
"In a few years you have put up
your library, struggled through all
sorts of obstacles to secure your
armory and convention hall social
center; secured a new form of pov
ernment that commended itself to
the majority; gained an outlet to the
north, over a new, fine bridge, ap
proached the burial of wires so as to
leave your Immensely broad streets
unobstructed, worked out fair meth
ods of paving assessments; and se
cured a number of genuine indus
tries. "This all gave one real pleasure,
for a city is the extension of its
people. The note In Owosso is con?
jfidence in the present and better
things ahead. This Is fhown In one
instance by the general desire that
the armory, now havlnc: become a
fact, shall be adequately supported
by parking In front and an Improv
ed view of the river in i;,e rear. It
Is also shown by your ambition pro
ject of boulevards. They will make
something even more beautiful than
the great boulevards around Dallas,
, Texas.
There they have not your
i varieties of trees.
The effect will
be to extend the range of homey
homes out toward the country.
Says Schools Are Splendid.
"Owosso's schools: Your schools
are splendid. The finish of the Lin
coln school Is superb and Its Outlook
toward the river may some day be
very beautiful. The school build-
In& that eems most attractively, set
-th,heJB?1' utl !"JL."
your cniidren live, tneir memories
will go back to the groves of trees
under which they were privileged to
play.
The high school came near the
Emerson In setting. The general
tone of your educational purpose Is
good, and I was glad to come In
touch with It, particularly, at the
high school.
Advocate riaygrounds.
' "I suggest the very earnest devel
opment of the playground idea, for
the child is your greatest asset. In
the winter months I would suggest
steady use by the school children of
(Continued on page 2)
