HE' Wa hintn erald 'a a
wecme early morning
guen almost every SI'II~ ADOne Cent
worth-while home inWashington. TE -RL
NO. 3633. WEATHR-FAIR; COOL. WASHINGTON. D. C.. SUNDAY. OCTOBER 1. 1916. ONE CENT.
WILSON BRANDED
COWARD BY T, R,
Colonel Makes Blunt Attack in
Battle Creek Speech.
4By the international News Bervee.)
Battle Creek, Mich.. Sept. 3D.-Theadore
Roosevelt sprang to the front today and
assund the Job of Republian gladiator
in-chief in tie part' a efforts to crush
Woodrow WiLson. With lit',e attempt at
Oratory, the Colonel pointed the way tol
Charley Hughes himself and all subor
dInate campaigners by assailing the Pres
ident in blunt language and with speciflc
haegdnounced the President as hir
ly and declared he was not a man of
word. He ridiculed him thoughout his
speech and held him up as a chaser of
expedients.
Diverting from his prepared address
when speaking of the Lusltana. he saId:
"You ask me what I would have done.
rIl tell you what I would have done. I
would have seized every German ship in
terned in an American port and then T
would have said to Germany. 'Now. you
tell me what you will pay and I'll tell
you how much the United States will
take.'
AgaIn ignoring his manuscript. the Col
onel declared:
"From what the German chancellor
said In the Reichatag yesterdoy there is'
reason to believe that a resvmptlon OfI
the submarine attacks is oremplated."
Another interpolation was t. the effct
that while he had not roined Nir. Wil
son's phrase pitiless puhli it he had
at least praeticed it while n the White
House.
A'. the R ih!ican pet '!ars. most of
the Protres.ses and a laicz portion of
the popu!a'!on of South-rn Michigan
wre he-e t, gre-t the 1'olinel. H spoke
I 1 ircus tent holding 1 - nersons, bit
t wr w .r \ (55 to 40 vic or In town
- nted, t, hear him.
NEW UBIT WARFARE
EXPECTED BY BERLIN,
Germ -_ Editors Bitter Toward U. S.
When Censor Lifts Ban.
(By the International News ervice.)
t-r1n. Set' - - rchaidowing every
t 7 nz e.se in th" p h : m i d. even the
orme battle. the p ity of a re
e:rmption of ruth!eos t- ci: -rfare con
t'nue the topic of th- d,, Two ques
t-.. :a the mam qibjt,-ti nf ji.sussion:
What w:ii American Amhassador
*-iA tel! Presiident Wilson"
), h -' hanclar. Reihstag speech
c n that ha has been converted to the
-or i lI-dedged submarine cam
censorch:p lid, so long maintained
cor .!! questions pertaining to the rela
tion betw-n Germany and the United
Stat es has been lifted Mernight and
Serman editota. of every political shade
today are venthin the bitterest critelam
of the American attitude on the BritIsh
Ito-kade
Al these factors conibined, in the
%nin of close obser-v-rs ean mean
b et the German government 1
r elv preparing the puh:1 for a
remptien of unlimited submarine
a *'.1it to t . -fetc. c Fon as t hta
I ren ,--iit ,- e--!'nained th it the
1' - i - will tke i' actual steps
to --- t i- iandonmert of th- Brtisn
ARRESTED AS PROWLER
IN FASHIONABLE HOTEL
"LeI- P. Russell" Held by Police for
Investigation.
ttic P Russell." arrested n a fash
innable hote!. where he was not regis
termI i held by the police pending in
vest intion. A houis< detective took the
nan in-, cust-dA - . a slav when he fourl
him in the corridor of a guest room foor.
The police are making inquiries to learn
whether guests in the hotel have missed
articles from their rooms in the last two
da-s. The prisoner is said to have ad
mitte-l that he had been about the es
tablishment for that period.
A gold lorgrette anl S146 was found in
his pockets. In a hag and trunk at his
hotel wee four d expensive jewelry and
carved ivory eets of considerable value.
The police say he has admited that h
entered several rooms in the hotel where
he was arrested.
The man was well dressed and among
his cffe-t were rumerous articles indi
cating 'astidious tastes.
PREACHER SACRIFICES
SELF FOR CLERGYMEN
4 By the International News Servioe.)
iemphi. Tenn.. Sept. 30.John Wesley
ickiens, i ;t preacher. Is dying at a
local h .7 h' a ving fired a bullet
through h!s t.-ple at the Y. M. C. A.
early tonight
In 2 no' irddressed. he says the
cause of his act was inability on the
small sa'av of a preacher to properly
care fr his wife and four little children,
and expressed the hope that the sacrifice
of his life might do some good toward
allevisting the condition under which
ordinary preachers Ilive. Rev. Mir. Dickens
came to Memphis a week ago to take
charge of a new church.
CHORES COUNT IN SCHOOL.
Boys Who Chop Wood Win Marks
in Physical Training.
A'bany. N. Y.. Sept. 30-The physlcal
trainln:: reqluirements for pupils in the
secondary schoils of New York State havo
been announced by Dr. John H. Finley.
State commissiorer of education. Coaches
and trainers in all bratches of athletics
must be teachers in the schools, and
training must not exceed six hours a
week.
Work done at home is to be accepted
as equivalent for the school work. 'Thus
the hoys who chop wood at home out of
doors will receive credit for the work.
as will the students who plow. pitch hay.
do road work or surveying. The require
ments apply to boys and girls.
I12.0 to Niagara Full. and Betr,.
Bltimnore and Ohio. last excursion
7:45 a. mn. Oct. 6. Tickets valid for
return within 15 days. Through train
of parlor cars and coaches, with lunch
pont car from Philadelphia via Lehigh
ValIley. Liberal stopovers returning.
Adv
SMASHES RECORD
Aitken Wins Astor Cup with
104 3-5 Miles Average.
(By the lternsatiemal News Serviee.)
New York, Sept. 30.-Johnny Aitken,
drising a Puegeot. won the Astor Cup to
day at Sheepshead Bay. He broke the
world's record for 250 miles by more than
three minutes. Eddie Rickenbacher, in a
Huge Maxwell. won second honors.
Ira Vail. driving a Hudson, was third.
anl lack ofj him in order came Ralph
Nlulford, In a Duesenberg, and Tommy
Milton in another Duesenberg.
It was a wonderful race in the presence
of a wonderful crowd. There were a
score of hairbreadth escapes from death.
but not a rider was injured.
Not once in the furious chase did Aitken
stop. Not once did he slacken his speed.
His average pace was 10 -, miles an
sour.
Aitken took the lead earl-. He saw his
lamous competitors fall away one by one
Lnd saw his teammate, Resta, watch the
other Peugeot burn on the track side.
Tne cars left the starting line in a pack.
Jff flew the two burnished Sunbeam cars,
noaning like evil sprits. Leaping after
:hem came the Peugeot-Resta was driv
ng.
Ralph Ie Palma sat on an oil cask in
:he pits, eating a ciar. His Peugeot had
!alled to qualify, and If there was any
ingrier individual in this country than
Do Palma he was not vIsible.
Resta. made one lap at the rate of 111
nilhes an hour. Christlapns. not to be oit
done. hurled his car after the flying
PEuenI t and equalled the mark.
Maybe the strain was too great, or
maybe the engines cou:d not stand it.
CONIrNTTD AN PAGoI THIRTtFFN.
CAPITAL HUNTER HURT
IN RACES AT BELMONT
Percy Evans, Local Society Man. Frac
tures Vertebrae in Neck.
4Hy the International News Service.)
New Yo-k. Sep! ' -1 v Evans, gen
tleman Joie-Y and i lead.n.: member of
the hntinc c in Virginia id Washing
Ion. D. C. ias prohabIs fatally irulred
tiIs afternoon while ridig in n o f the
ra es at the 'nitedi flunt ieting at Bel
mont Park terminaL At St. Nary's Hos
pital. in Jamaica. tonght it was d lured
after a consultation of surceons that
there was little hope for Mr. TEvens' re
1overy. One of the vert-brae in his neck
as fractured.
Mr. Evans wa riding in te thi-d race.
a three-and-one-half-mile reoplechase.
With possible victory in eth. only two
Iences from the finish association, the
horse he was riding came a cropper ant
sent over on his head.
The horse,. whose neck wes broken.
Uer hItstantlv.
Mr. Evans was proninent in local so
:Iety'last winter. Re is a nmebr of the
Riding and Hunt Club and ass ridden in
a mny of the local drag hurts.
CABLE SAYS "REICHDAG
FAVORS DANISH SALE"
ity the International New. -ervie.)
London. Set.I ' -Hoth th.- Iper ant
lower houses of the Reichlag have
unanimously voted in favor of tIhe ale
uf the Danish West indes to the I'nited
,tites, says an Exchange Telegraph dis
latch from Copenhagen.
The political orisis that was threatened
h fh. -nntroversy has heen averted,. the
rt adds
MAN DIES IN FIGHT.
Manse Wolfordl Held at Hagerstown
Charged with Killing.
Ifizerstown. Sept. 30-William R. Rip
Ple died this morning in the hospital here
frorn a fratured skull, and Manse Wol
ford. his alleged slayer, is in jail as a re
suIt of a fight last night in the Western
Maryland Railway shops here. The fight
occurred in he engine room, where both
men wsere employed as firemen.
Bad blood is said to have existed he
tween tho two for months. Last night,
it is alleged, Ripple attacked Wolford
with a poker. Wolford dodged, according
to witnesses, and struck Ripple on the
head with a shovel. The latter died fol
owvin; an operation.
ATLANTA ARMED CAMP.
Heavy Patrol on Streeta When car
men Strike.
Atlanta. Ga.. Sept. 30.-Atlanta present
ed the appearance of an armed camp to
night as the result of a walk-ott of street
-armen at r o'clock. Within fifteen min
lites six mounted and three trafic pollce
men were on duty at every down-town
corner.
The :!rst few hours of the strike pass
ed without disordet, although noisy
crowds assembled on every corner, jeer
Ing the strikebreakers and cheering pas
sengers who left the cars.
KAISUE GREETS GREEK TROOPS.
Sends Welcome to Men Who Left
Ka-ala for Germany.
Berlin (via wireless to Sayville, Long
Island.. Sept. 30.-The first contingent of
the Greek soldiers who placed themselves
.n the hands of the Germans at Kavala
reached the city of Goerlitz, In Silsa,
today.
The Kaiser sent his personal adjutant,
Enzdorff, to Goerlitz to hernd to Co.
Zhatmepoulos an autograph letterr The
.ord mayor of Goerlitz greeted the Greek
wromen and handed them flower.
Headed by a Gerrnan and two Greek
oands, the Greek troops, -etaining their
hill equipment and arms, raarchedl to
their new barracks. provided with al
:nodern installations.
POLICE PROBE DEATHS.
rhree Sons of Postmsistres. Im Ohto
Peisoned.
Lencsater, Ohio, Sept. 20--Police today
ire investigating the mysterious poison
ng of three sons of Mrs. Mary Clelland,
issistant postmistress here. onte of whom
sbelievgl to be dying. The other two
ire in a serious condition.
It is claimed the boys drank milk con
:aining bichloride of mercury. An aest
asipected soon.
Quickest Serviee to Baltmee,
Every Hour on the Hour. Baltimore
and Ohio. $1.75 rpun~d trip. Satur4ays
ad Sundays, L1.6.-Ady,5
BRITISH ADVANCE
Repulse Teuton Attacks and
Forge Nearer Stuff Redoubt.
(By the Internatineil News serviee.)
London, Sept. 30.-South of the Ancre
on the Somme front, heavy fighting dur
ing the last twenty-four hours has re
sulted in further slight advances by the
British in the vicinity of the Stuff re
doubt and repulse of German attempts
by counter-attacks in force to reclaim
the ground previously won by the British
at this point. German counter-attacks
against the Hessian redoubt, recently
conquered by the British, also failed.
Still further to the south, near the
Somme, new French attacks have widen
ed the swath cut in the German line.
near Rancourt. North of Rancourt the
successes won by the French were with
the aid almost exclusively of hand
grenades.
The Berlin statement records the re
pulse of British attacks between Cource
lette and the Ancre.
Official statements from all headquar
ters report renewed efforts by the artil
lery. such as generally are followed by
strong Infantry actions on one side or
the other.
The official report from British head
quarters tonight says:
"On the battlefleId south of the Ancre
there has been no change in the general
situation.
"There was heavy shelling during the
day. Especially near d'Estre Mont and
around the Stuff and Sollern redoubts.
(ur line was slightly advanced south of
Eaucourt l'Abbaye.
"In the Thiepval area we made prison
ers of three officers and 164 soldiers.
"Two German aeroplanes were brought
down In addition to the one mentioned
In last night's report."
SEVEN IN PERIL WHEN
AEROPLANE OVERTURNS
Sudden Squall Upsets Huge Sea and
Air Machine.
Specal to The Wash1r1t' Heald.
Nw York, sept. O -Five men on board
a hvdro-oeropIan, and two men aboard a
motorhoat, whIch had been made fast to
it. w- in imminent peril of drowning
when the flIrn machine turned turtle In
a Mill soon after it had been launched
at Clason Point
At th. time of the mishap, Friday, It
was being operated by its designer, con
structosr. and aviator. Warren S Eaton,
widely known on the Paciflc Coast.
The craft was eq];pped wIth only tem
porary engines, developing ninety horse
power each.
Eaton was about to pick an anchorage
wh-n the aceident occujrred. The two
men In the motor boat were signaled to
make to the rear while the hydro-aero
plane faced the gale. The three men
crowded aft on one of the pontoons, and
the motor hoat sutdnly ran into the
stern of the hvdro-saroplane.
The wind 9,t under the heavy over
stread of his top Ilane and slowly the
flying boat turnd upeide down.
When the capsize came Mr. Eaton yell
ed to his brother to jump, but Frank
climbed out, and kept climbing. so that
when th. machine was completely over
h- sat atop of the bottom of it.
Warran Eaton jumped and swam to
tlh. motor loat. Both Eatons wore !lIf
THREE MORE VESSELS
VICTIMS OF TEUTONS
4By the International News iervice.)
London, Sept. 30-Lloyds report the
sinking of the British steamshidp Rallus,
1,762 tons, and the Norwegian steamer
Vindeggen.
Amsterdam, Sept. 30.-A dispatch to the
Telegraaf says the Norweg!an teamshlp
Robert Lea has been captired by the
G-rmans and taken into Zeehrottie. Her
crew is being sent to Rotterdam.
Berlin (via wireles. to Sayville). Sept.
30.-Reports publIshed in foreign newspa
pers that the steamers Kelvinia and
Strathtay were torpedoed by Clerman
submarines without warning cero denied
today by the Overseas News Agency. It
is stated "on competent authoity" that
neither vessel was attacked.
NO THREE-FACE BUTTONS.
G. 0. P. Recalls Rn-hes-Hoosevemt
Taft Insignias.
New York. Sept. 30.-"The three-face"
campaign button which threatened to
cause a ptit between Col. Theodore
Roosevelt and the Republican party will
rot be issued. William R. Willcox, chair
man of the Republican Natitnal Commit
tee, said today that no buttons bearing
the pictures of Roosevelt, Taft and
Hughes have been ordered.
Col. Roosevelt became greatly vexed
when told such a button would appear at
the banquet to be tendered to Charles
Evans Hughes In this city next Tuesday
night.
ECONOMIC PACT SIGNED.
Germany and Switzerland Complete
Convention.
Berlin (via Sayville)h Sept. 30.-Germany
and Switzerland have signed an important
economic convention, according to dis
patches from Zurich.
Federal Councilor Hoffman is quoted
as having informed the Swiss national
council that the result of the agreement
is satisfactory for Switzerland, since that
country is to obtain neceseary materials
for the maintenance of industry.
GOVERNOR HURT IN CRASH.
Ohio Exeentive and Famally limrt
While Motoring.
Delaware, Ohio, Sept. 20.-Governor
Frank B. Willis, his wife and their only
daughter were injured in an automobile
accident here today. Mrs. WhIli is in a
hospital with five cuts on her head.
The governor suffered a badly sprained
wrist, which may be fractured, and a cut
in hIs side. The daughter was not seri
ously hurt. The accident occurred when
an automobile truck crashed into the taxi
In whichs the governor and his farmily
were riding.
$120 Pearls in Oysters.
Sbdc. Pa.. Sept . .-O. "F.
8dtwelder found two Pearls while eat
ing- oyuters In a iwtaurat here. A
local jeweler put their value at 80 each.
Intevutate Fair. L.uehbars, V.,
Oct. 3 to 6. Reduced roua4 trip fares.
Senthern Railway'. Ash m-est.
_ Telegraph Tips
Ontario, Cal., Sept. 3.-Scores of
searchers today renewed a hunt for J.
Fits Helm, New York artist and chess
player, who has been missing two days
and is believed to have met with an acci
dent while on a mountain jaunt.
London. Sept. 3.-The entire air corps
of the Greek army, with its twenty offi
cers, has deserted to the revolutionists,
according to a General News dispatch
from Athens today.
Chicago. Sept. 30.-Thomas Picara.
wealthy importer, was slipped out of the
Chicago jail early today and started East
in the custody of detectives to prevent
court action enjoining his extradition to
New York in connection with a murder
plot, said to Involve a half dozen Italian
members of Tammany Hall.
Paris, Sept. 30.-ofia. capital of nul
garia, has been bombed by a French avia
tor in retaliation for air attacks on
Bucharest, according to a war office com
munique today.
London. Sept 30-A terrifo revolt has
broken out in Bohemia, according to an
Exchange Telegraph dispatch from Rome.
Great shortage of food is said to be the
chief cause.
New York. Sept. 30.-Health department
omcials of New York and New Jersey
are today making strenuous efforts to find
a tramp who, they believe. is a paralysis
"carrier." Nineteen new cases and four
deaths from the epidemic were reported
today.
Albany, Sept. 30.-Gov. Whitman will go
to New York Sunday morning and pre
sent the color of the regiment to the
Fifteenth New York Infantry, New York
State's new negro National Guard or
ganisation.
New London, Sept. 3.-The missing
South Waterford hearse purchased some
years ago by public subscription has
been found on a farm in Gilead. The
body of the vehicle had been dismounted
and ft being used as a lhicken coop.
Albany, N. Y., Sept. 3.-A threatened
general strike on the Un,t.ed Traction
lines In five cities has been averted by
the employes arreeing to arbitrate the
difference, which grew out of the dis
charge of a motorman.
Middletown. N. Y., Sept. 3.-At the
age of 3. the police say. Walter Everson,
now 8 years old, began a life 3f crime.
which has resulted in his commitment to
the Randall's Island Rformatory.
Terre Haute. Ind., Sept. 10 -Paul
Hoppingarner, 11 years old, was shot and
killed by his 13-year-old playmate. Ray
mond Abbott. Abbott told the police he
was playing cowboy and did not know
the gun was loadled.
Chicago. Sept. 3.-A machine which
records every motion of the heart was
exhibited before the convention of the
American X-ray Society. It Is called an
electrocardiograph. By its use, it was
explained, piysicianp may obtain exact
records for diagnosfs ,' heart disease
Houston. Texas. Sept. 3A.-The Southern
Pacific system has announced that
freight eastbound or northbound through
G;alveston or New Orle-ans, via the
Morgan line, will not be received after
midnight Saturday. Shipments In transit
v.i' he accepted.
Rockland, Me.. Sept. 30.-Bad weather
prevented the completion of the stand
nrdization trials of the torpedo boat de
stroyer WIlkes. She received her an
chor tsts and had a four-hour fuel econ
rme run at sixteen knots. These trials.
according to offilais on board, were sat
iofactory.
Los Angeles. Sept. 30.-Mrs. Georgia A.
lobinson. just appointed to the office cf
policewoman by Chief of Police Snively.
is the first negro woman in the United
States to hold such a position. Mrs. Rob
inson speaks French fluently and is
studying Spanish.
Isleboro. Me.. Sept. 30.-Aboard the
steam yacht of Otto Kahn. of New York.
the body of James E. Hall. keeper of
Grindell's Point light. has been taken to
Matinicus for burial. ie was killed by
a rock which flew from a ledge he was
dynamiting.
Boston. Mass.. Sept. 30.-C. O'Connell
Galvin, for twenty-seven years a news
paper man in New York, Boston and
Worcester, is dead from Bright's disease
at the age of 53 years. He was born in
Cork, Ireland, and before coming to
America wrote for the Cork Examiner,
the Liverpool Mercury and the London
Telegraph.
Seattle. Wash.. Sept. 30.-Suspension of
work by all coal miners In Washirfgton
belonging to the United Mine Workers
of America has been ordered by the dis
trh t convention to permit a referendum
vote on the counter proposition submit
ted by the operators to the miners' de
mand for a 5 per cent flat wage Increase.
Paris. Sept. 30-Dr. A. Magnan. one of
of the foremost alienists in France, is
dead. Dr. Magnan was chief of the Paris
Insane Bureau and director of the French
School of Advanced Research.
Troy. N. Y.. Sept. 30.-1'he Washington
County grand jury at Salem reported to
Justice Borst that it had failed to find
Indictments in the matter of alleged con
spiracy against Thomas Mott Osborne.
London, Sept. 30. - The American
schooner MatchleF . which was taken into
Lerwick from the fishing grounds off Ice
land. has been released on the Nor
wegian consignees of her cargo of her
rings giving a bond that the fish will not
reach the central powers. The schooner
Maryland still Is being held.
Cairo. Egypt. Sept. 30.-At a place which
can be designated only as "somewhere in
Egypt." the British forces are establish
ing what will be one of the largest and
most completely equipped aviation schools
in the world.
FREE TICKETS
FOR YOU
At Moore's Garden and Strand
theaters this wveek. They are
offered you in the classinied col
umns of today's Herald on page
15. Of course this is an unusual
opportunity, but every day there
are scores of opportunities offer
ed in the same columns. No
matter what you want, be it a
,job, a clerk, a bookkeeper, a
maid, a cook, an apartrnerat, a
house, money to borrow, or any
one of scores of needs you can
fill it by consulting The Herald's
chs'sified c'ilumns or inserting a
TRADE CRUCIFIED
Hughes Charges Wilson Has
Sacrificed Business of U. S.
By WILLIAM HOflTat.
fIsterational News Service.)
Buffalo, N. Y., Sept. 3.-Charles E.
Hughes tonight charged President Wilson
with sacrifice of American business in
terests in foreign lands and submitted
proofs. Citing the case of Mexico, he
said: "It is said by the administration
that they desire to open the door for
American enterprise.
'What is the inducement for our mer
chants and bustness men to go to for
eign countries and engage in Arnerican
enterprise if they and their investments
are treated as our citizens and their Prop
erties were permitted to be treated in
Mexico?
"We have heard criticised." continued
Mr. Hughes, "those who had taken ad
vantage of opportunities and made in
vestments in Mexico, but I have not dis
covered that any line was drawn between
the innocent and those, who were not
admitted to be Innocent in permitting
our citizen, to be left to the ravages of
revolution and perhaps to be destroyed.
"If any have forfeited their rights un
der international law, let them he singled
out and dealt with. But I stand here to
assert that American trade will not he
maintained according to the ambitions
and just aspirations of our people, and
we shall not stand before the world as
we should with international esteem and
the confidence of the nation unless we
protect at all events, American lives,
American property and American com
merce throughout the world."
He denounced the administration's vetc
,on the six-power loan to China and oon
trasted the pretensions of friendship for
the Itin-American states with Mr.
Bryan's landling of the Santo Domtnge
affair.
The new line of attack was developed
here tonight in an address before 6,00C
people in the Auditorium, with which the
RepublIcan Presidential candidate
brought the Middle Western and New
York State campaign to a elope.
TRUTH SOCIETY HEAD
FLAYS WILSON POLICY
"Truckling to England Subversive of
American Interests."
' ,By the Internatiemal News Service.)
ha11ago. Sept. 3.--What do you mean
diIsloyaltv to America. or disloyalty tr
Encland'"' demands Jeremiah A. O'Leary
pr. ,dent cf the American Truth Soclety
in a telegraphic rjoinder to Presiden1
Wilsenr reply to Mr. O'Leary's receni
taunt that the President'. "villification'
of the "hyphenates" had cost him muck
of his presti.
Mr. O'Leary's message to the President
consisting of about 50 supercharge<
words, reazhed Shadow Lawn intact. Mr
O'Leary appearedl to be greatly wrough
up over the President'. telegram, iT
which the Executive had said he wouk
he deeply m'rtifi-d to have Mr. O'Leary
or anibody ;ike him, cast a vote foi
Woodrow Wilson.
The Truth Society's president, as a fina
shaft at the President's telegram. mad,
this nrediction:
'War with England it sure to result.
A i few of th sentences from Mir
O'Inry's rejonder:
I "t challenge comparison. both by hered
ity and environment, of my life and ante
cedents, with yours.'
'The word 'hyphenate' nas never hear<
of Irish blood at the dedication of th
Commodore Barry monument in Washing
ton."
I ',l %our attention to th. historica
fact of the Revolution, which the father
thought had deivered us, for all time
from England."
"Your failure to sustain AmericaT
rights, ycur truckling to England. ar
subversive of the interests of America.'
'I warn you that adherence to you
poltices wilt carry Nou down to deser'er
I deeat on ele-tion daN."
STRIKE PLANS JOLTED
BY GARMENT WORKERS
(By the International News Service.
New York, Sept. EA.-The proposed in
dustrial tie-up in this city in sympathl
with the striking traction workers re
ceived another ,vere jolt today when an
nouncement was made that the 150,001
members of the International Ladies
Garment Workers' Union would return tc
work at the end of the Jewish New Yea
celebration. They had been expected it
remain idle.
Union workers who quit in sympath
with the carmen have dwindled to
mere handful. 6.000 brewery workers be
ing the latest to seek re-enstatement af
iter having voted to strike.
Striking street car employes receive<
their firEt benefit today, abojt IV.'5) be
ing distributed.
BIG METON YIELD.
New Jersey Farmer Gets *500 low
Product of Acre.
Georgetown, N. J.. Sept. 30.-Isalat
Haines set a new record for South Jer
sey watermelon crops this season wher
he cleared more than M500 from a singli
acre of the fruit. He applied science t<
intensive methods -,f cultivation and pick
ed and sold 2,300 melons, in addition tc
those used by his family and friends.
WILSON'S FEIEND A SUICIDE.
Inventor Was College Mate of Presi
det at Princeton.
New York, Sept. 30.-Broken-hearted
because the government had rejected hir
Process for manufacturing wire-wound
guns, Morris N. Johnson, friend and coi
loge mate of President Wilson at Prince
ton, committed suicide today.
Johnson, who was 70 years old, three
himself from a window of his room a'
IS Grammercy Park. He had been ill.
20 NORWEGIAN SHIPS SUNK.
Loes During- September Estimated
at *300,00.O.
Ladon, Sept. 30.-Twenty Norwegiar
vessels valued at 15.252,500 were sunk by
moines or torpedoes during September, ac
cording to a dispatch from Copenhagen
The total value of Norwegian ships losl
since thte outbreak of the war is giver
at $H,500,000. The cargoes are valued at
$12,500,000.
Uinder Outing te Lar5ay ad Return
$2.00. Baltimore and Ohio, S:15 a. m.
Bunyn Oct L mReunisa..me ay-.
BREMEN CAPTURED
Report of Submarine's Fate
Received by Officials.
A report has been received In oflicial
quarters In Washington that the German
submarine Bremen has been captured by
British naval forces off the east coast of
Scotland.
The Bremen. according to thi- report,
now is he!d at the British naval hae.
Rosyth, at the mouth of the Ri'er Rolrth.
Information (ontained In the report
reaching here indicated that the Britis
naval forces employed mammoth steel
nets to trap the Bremen. These nets, of
ficials said they were Informed, were 1I
feet long and 16 feet deep and were
equipped with attached contact bombs
calculated to explode and burst the plates
of a submarine that fell into the trap.
No word has been received as to the
fate of the Bremen's crew, but if the cir.
curstances of the capture are as stated
in the report, the crew, in all probability,
perished when the boat was trapped.
Officials giving out the information
would not state the source of the re
port and would not vouch for Its au
thenticity. Naval offieers, however, were
Inclined to credit the report as they be.
lieve the Br(emen. which is long overdu.
would have ben heard from long befor,
this if it had not been captured
Just why the British government has
not announced the capture of the Bremn,
if it has really been accomplished. the
officials were unable to say. It was
pointed out, however. that the Britisti
admiralty has mainta!ned slence as tc
its canpalgi to trap submarineb. be.
Ilieving the p:-ychological effect of com
pelling the Germans to worry over over
due boats aided British plans better thar
I prompt announcernent of submarine cap
tured.
U. S. STRIKES FIRST
RETALIATORY BLOW
British Restrictions on Liquor Imports
Will Be Applied to British Goods.
The Department of State has struck the
first retailiatory blow at Great Britalt
,ecause of the United Kingdom's restric
tions on American trade.
Because of England's restrictions or
Imports of spirituous Uquors from the
United States, Secretary of State Lansing
has notifiei customs officials to apply thi
same restrictions to spirits from Greal
Britain and her dominions when shipped
to this country. Authority for the ster
I as given in the pure food and drugs aet
Great Britain restricts the inportatiot
of spirits that have not been warehoused
for at least three years.
The Department of Agrricultre an
nounced yesterday, that on orders of thq
State Department the name *!ule woulW
be applied by the-4znited States after De
cember 1.
MILK FAMINE DRAWS
CLOSER IN NEW YORK
(By the International News nervtee.
New York. Sept 30. -New York mill
dealers and the Dairymen's League, em
bracing four-fifths of the mitlk-producini
facilities in the State. are engaged ii
what both sides predict to be a 'fight t<
the fInish." As a result the shortago n
milk ;n Greater New York. which set it
today, threatens to develop into a sern
ous famine.
Fven infants pI invalids will he afert
ed. A climax is expected to be reache<
Tuesday.
Iomiration is the real issue in th
controversy. The dealers. headA b th<
Sheffield F'ar'mA-Slawson- I'ek-r Corn
pany, oppose the demands of the farm
ers. Insisting that they "will not allow i
clique to gather at Albany and set ul
arbitrary rules." The farmers, througi
the Dairynen's League. are etually de
termined to make ro cont-scts excep
through the league.
BARON BURAIN QUT1M.
Austro-Hungariasn Premier Report.
ed Forced Out.
I Amsterdam (via London), Sept. 3.--Th
Vossiche Zeitung publishes a rumor tha
Baron Burian. the Austro-Hungariar
premier, has resigned.
The retirement of Premier Burian wouli
mean that the strong political ;art
backing Count Andracsy has won a blu-ib
born fight for ascendancy in the affairt
lof the dual monarchy Andrasy, the
probable successor of Burian, is an ar
dent admirer and frIend of the Kaisei
and advocates the complete suborlinatlor
!of Austrian policies to German direction
SWEEPS UP $2,500 GEM.
Hotel Employe Finds Four-('aral
Diamond In Lnhby.
New York. Sept. 30--Sweeping th,, lobb,
of the Hotel Majestic last eening Johr
Carter, of 249 East Flfty-third stret. sav
soniething shiny in front of the desk an,
picked it up. It was a ring, which hi
turned iver to John J. White, the cler
on.duty.
The setting was so large that Whit
thought it must be "phoni Showing I
to a jeweler who lives in the hotel. h,
was told the octagonal dianiond Is of fou
carats and worth $2.500. At midnight th<
gem, which is set in a woman's patinun
ring, was still unclaimed.
SENATOR CLARKE ILL.
Arkmasas solon Safers from Apo
piepy7 Stroke,
LUttle Rock, Ark.. Sept. 30.-Senatoi
James P. Clarke is critically Ill tonigh'
and his family are very apprehensive
Apoplexiy and indigestion are his all
ments.
Senator Clarke was taken iEl F'ridai
and the cause of his illness was then at.
itributed to an attack of indigestion. He
rallied Friday night and this morning
but early tonight suffered a sinking spell
Grave fears are entertained for his re,
govery. The Senator is 62 years of age.
"DEYS" INVADE KANSAS,
J. Frank Hanly Leads Aid to con.
gressional Candidate,
Garden City. Kan.. Sept. 3i -In vadinj
another "dry" State in their swini
around the country, J. Franki Itanly
Prohibition candidate for Presidetit. eni
his running mate. .Dr. tra J. Landrith, to
dybent their efforts to aiding Hoairr
E. Klrschner, a Prohibitionist canrdidat<
for Congress fross the Thirteenth distri
-nd w
G. 0. P. RAYED
BY PRESIDENT
Says Republicans Would "Pos
sess" Entire Government.
(By the Iuternatlemal itews Sevetee.)
Shadow Lawn, N. J. Sept 30.-Preel
dent Wilson in a spec-h hefore the Young
Men e LeaRgue of Democratic Clubs here
today dayed the Republican party with
wit and humor, and abuse. as an or
ganization seeking a return to power oaly
that it might "poSsess" the government.
Every Tamrnany district from New
York City was represented in the Seth
ering, which numbered nearly .W per
sons.
When Mr. Wilson charged that the
United States was controlled by Wall
Street while the Republicans were in
power, he was greeted with a Tainnany
yell that was heard a mile away.
Again, when he lemanded to know how
Mr. Hughes proposed to Chane the for
eign policy and asserted: "There Ia but
one choice as against peace and that I
war there were still more chers
The addreas was consaidered one of th.
greatest campaign efforts made by Mr
NNilson.
The President said in part
'I am oblicd to you for gtving me R,
opportunity to say some "ery plain thing
about the present camnpalg- a-nd about th
fut:re polieyr ,f thits -u' ry. because
iodl of yourt men Are v, r, mu'-h mor
lnt.rest'd - ', ftur- than they are it
the present
"I do not knou hether from Republi
can headqua-ters you have got any sug
gestion as to what is going to happen It
years to come This is a moet ingula
campaign: I .I: not A' an um, ev.
dented campaign. he-r- I happen t,, re
mernmerr thet other parties hav tr'ed I.
get Into power by saying not*-g whAt
.-er, and I also renem-e m h '-teres
CrnNTTNtrD n" PAGE TWO I
ANTHRACITE TO SOAR
HfiHER, SAY MINE MEN
Owners Blame Rise on Eight-Hour anc
Corpensation Law.
Beda to The Washmera, BeaMd.
Wkesbarre, Sept. 30-Charles r Eu
ber, vice president and genera manager
of the Lehigh and WI:kesbarre Oai Coam
I-any, was the only one of the big anthra
c-te operators to be called before the
cornmiasion named by lov. Bruebgagh
to inquire Into the increased est of cal
when It sat hre yesterdasn3derament
beLng take at an early hour. wie the
ftuerlutanding that the commission wouM
reconvene in Philadelphia out Ofto
ber 20
Mr. Huber dented there was a eon
hinatlin of antbradte interests that fixed
the prices of coal He said he was in ab
solute control of the prices fixed by his
company and denied that he was con
trolled by any operators. selng agencies
or other interests,
He disclaimed any knowledke concern
ing the situation in Philadelphia, where
prices a-re higher than In New York
Moat of the output of his company is
sold in New Tork, he said. and for that
Ireason he was not fa.mtiar with the
Philadelphia situaton
The compensation law by fo-cing the
purchase of safety devties has increased
the cost of production 9 cents per tor.
according to the operators.
14e eight-hour work. it ia alleged. has
brought about an ad"..orna t-was
amounting tO 4 re-nts per to
PASSENiER, STRUCK BY
BRICK, MAY LOSE SIfiHT
Wife of Ma-ne Barracks Sergeant Hit
While Riding on Car.
Frederick Gharries, 23 years old, of 1358
Four-and-a-half street sti-west, after
I being put off a Four-and-s-half street car
last night at Four-and-a-half and F streets
southwest by Conductor Ve:,ar Frys.
who charged that he was :-ordierly. ac
cording to the charge mad- at the Fourth
precinct station, where he !f under a-.
rest, threw * rick into Th< nar
The brick struck Mrp Catherne W.b
'r. wife of Sergt. Weber, o Wsshing'a
Bar-racks, over the eye. The oar %as
stoped and Dr C. W. t-hioman of ao
Sixth street southest. 'r,-e..ed tI
r-orna 0
According to Dr Chitman. ir Weber
we lose Ii itht s -f qne t and por
1b1, of both
G harries was arrr-ted v 'oace o, th
Fourth precnet on a char;:e of nsnult
and disorderly ondc on a !t .a
MERCURY WILL HOVER
AROUND FORTY TODAY
After scanning all ava-lable harts,
maps. and instruments. the weather
forecaster :at rtoht handed out some
first-hand knowledle on October weather
Today. ie says. ith-re will be the first
taste of the weather that makes har'erf
moons famous, wth the temperat'
hovering pretty near the forty degri
mark. But tomorrow old So: will stags
a comeback, causinc the moercury to ad
vance to a more cot-mfortable level. au
the neighborhood of ti d'-greea, at whicn
point it witll probabiy :inger until Thurs
day, whetn it will settle to the normal
mark of the seaseon
The warm weather whicht prevailed last
wreek probably Cill be duplicated the
ea~ part of the month, with a possie
peniod of Indtian summer wreather.
IURGES SENSATIONAL PULPIT.
B ishop Ha-mites Tell. Young Mi.
lnter. is Rtlr 'hereae.
IWheelirg. W. Va.. Sept. 28-Bieher
Franklin Hamilton, addreasitng a ciaass
of young mnnisterrs just admitted to full
connection with the church at the an
ntual conference of the Mtethodist Epiaco
p-al Church of Weat Vitr-inla. declared
that minIsters, to accom'alish proper re
suits fromt the work they aem called upon
to do, must preach sensational set-mona
"Tell the tnath and tell it plainly.' he
declared " Every minister ghbtuia either
preach sensational inrspos and eatIe a
I ensatlon In his charch ad town or gat
out of the busineea."
la e Hmrpere Ferry, SI.M Wimaahem
ter s~ud 1-eturn. Ma-tinere and Ohio
from Unilen htation, aLW a. sa.. ud
Ontaher 6.AdM -
