The Bulletin's Circulation in Norwich : is Double That of Any Other Paper, and Its Total Circulation is the Largest in Connecticut in Proportion to th 3 City's Population. .
ilMANIAN
STILL
FALL
All Along the Line East of Bucharest From the Tran
sylvanian Alps to the Danube
PLACE OF FINAL STAND
Russians Fail to Make Any Impression Against the Austro
German Forces Along the Bukowina Border Berlin Re-
j ports That the Rumanian Capital Was Captured Without
Any Fighting On the Other Fronts tne Artillery Wings
of the Army Are Doing the Greater Portion of the Work
An Explanation of the Military Activity of the Greeks
Has Been Demanded by the Entente Ministers at Athens.
The Rumanian army at last reports
wan still falling back all along the line
east of Bucharest from the Transylva
nian Alps to the Danube. Just where
it will stop and face about and, with
its Russian allies, make a stand
against the Teutonic allies has not yet
become appirent. On the Moldavian
west frontier and farther north along
the Bukowina border the Russian at
tacks against the Austro-German
forces have failed to make any im
pression. An official communication from Ber
lin says Bucharest was captured with
out any fighting, except by the Ru
manian Infantry north and tftest of the
capital. This resistance was quickly
overcome, it is stated, and the invaders
entered the town from all sides,' being
received enthusiastically by the popu
lace and decorated with flowers.
Aside from Rumania, the greatest
Interest still Is centered in the political
crisis in Great Brltiin. David Lloyd
George has formally accepted from
the king the post of prime minister
and first lord of the treasury.' a fact
Which la considered as indicating that
he will be able speedily to form a
ministry. The probable makeup of
the cabnet has not been announced.
On no ore of the fronts is a sr.n
rulnary . battle in progress. For the
HEARING OF BOSTON
AND MAINE CONTROVERSY
M. P. Knowlton Believes Receiversnip
Best Way Out of Difficulties.
' Boston, Dec 7. Marcus P. Knowlton,
chairman of the Federal trustees con
trolling the New York, Mew Haven &
Hartford Railroad's holdings of the
majority stock of the Boston & Maine,
testified today in the federal court pro
ceedings on the question of making the
temporary receivership of the Boston
A Maine permanent, that he believd
the receivership was the best way out
of the road's difficulties.
The witness, who was formerly
chief Justice of the supreme court of
the state, added that in his opinion
the Ideal plan would be a reorganiza
tion of the twenty-five railroad corp
orations now operating as the Boston
and Maine.
"I have never believed nor hoped
that the reorganization would be ac
complished,' he said, "so long as the
road was paying Its rentals. My be
lief was that no reorganization would
ever be accomplished until the road
came Into the control of the court and
the various parties concerned came to
take a rational view of the situation.
Continuing, Judge Knowlton said
that his principal objection to the di
rectors' plan for re-organizing the
road was that it increased fixed
charges about $1,600,000 annually. He
believed the leased lines should con
sent 'to a paring down of their rental
charges to two-thirds or three-quarters
of the present rate to offset the
assessment which holders of common
stock would be called upon to pay.
RIVERS AND HARBORS
CONGRESS IN SESSION
Cost of Atlantic Coastal Canal Esti
mated at 147,800,000.
Washington, Dec 7. Brigadier
General William H. Black, cntef of
army engineers, addressing the Na
tional Rivers and Harbors Congress
today, warned communities against
peeking appropriations for canals or
liver channels which cannot be put
Into operation promptly. He said
such activities Injured legitimate wa
terways movements and retarded the
country's development.
Wilfrid H. SchofT of Philadelphia,
secretary of the Atlantic Deeper Wa
terways Association, declared that the
cost of an Atlantic coastal canal, con
necting bays or sounds between Bos
ton and North Carolina, estimated at
17,800,000 will be saved in preven
tion of shipwreck losses, Which in the
last twenty years have amounted to
$40,000,000 along the Atlantic coast.
The congress held' two sessions to
day and will adjourn tomorrow with
election of officers and the adoption
of a new declaration of principles.
THRONG AT FUNERAL
8ERVICES OF GEO, C. BOLDT.
Millionaires and Waiters Pay Tribute
to Deoeasad Boniface.
New York, Dec. 7- Millionaires and
Walters were among the throng of
mourners who filled St, Thomas'
church on Fifth avenue today at the
funeral services of George C. Boldt,
pioneer In the art of modern hotel
management, who died here Monday.
Every section of the country was rep
resented. Hotels In -New York.Phila
ielphia and other cities sent their
managers, or the proprietors thpm
telves were present, and delegations
attended on behalf of national, state
uid city hotel organisations, Cornell
nniversity, the Ohio society and Fifth
Avenue association.
Men who bore the silver and bronze
;asket Included Jacob Gould Schtir
man, Charles M. Schwab, George F.
Baker, Emerson MaMlll.m and F. II.
Npseck.
ARM
Y IS
ING BACK
IS NOT YET APPARENT
most part, the artillery wings of the
belligerent armies axe doing 'he great
er portion of the work Berlin reports
that the Bulgarians have foiced back
the British in tne Struma river low
lands near Seres. In Macedonia, and
that the Bulgarians and Germans have
compelled the evacuation by the Serbs
of positions they had previously cap
tured near Trnovo. In the Cerna river
sector.
West of Lutsk, in "Volhynia, the
Teutonic allies have captured Russian
positions and successfully withstood
counter-attacks. .
The Vienna war office reports that
ta Italians after a vigorous bombard
tnent launched two attacks on the
Ca;so front of the Austro-Italian the
atre, but that both, pf them were, re
pulsed. -' - ' V " . ':
Artillery duels and exploits by raid
ing parties continue on the fronts in
Belgium and France. The Germans
and French are engaged in a spirited
artillery battle In the region of Hill
304, northwest of Verdun, where the
Germans Wednesday gained some
ground.
An explanation of the military ac
tivity of the Greek has been demand
ed by the British, French, Italian and
Russian ministers at Athens, accord
ing to an unofficial despatch.
CONVENTION .OF, SAFETY . ,....
FIRST FEDERATION.
Fines Ineffective as Punishment for
Automobile Speeders.
Baltimore, Dec. L.teter trying 20,
000 cases in the traffic court in Chica
go, Judge Joseph Sabath today - ex
pressed the belief before the Safety
First Federation convention here that
nnes and penalties are the least im
portant phase of his work. ;
'"The man who is ned usually leaves
tne court room defiant, said the judge.
"He considers himself squared with
the law. His penalty -is paid and-he
owes nothing more ta '-society."- Butif
he finds a judge who patiently and
earnestly points out to him the seri
ousness of his offense because of its
danger to society, his bettor self re
sponds. . - . ...
Commissioner Arthur Woods of New
Yoik in an address charged that con
structive legislation for liaensin all
automobile drivers in the interests of
public safe'y had repeatedly been
blocked by misguided combinations.
He said "it is utterly absurd and illog
ical" to permit any inexperienced per
son to take upon the public highways
n puLciniai engine or aestrucuon.
In addition to a uniform traffic code
drafted by traffic experts from all over
tne country, the report of the street
traffic committee of the federation con
tained the following recommenda
tions: Uniformity in number plates
and gear shifts, transparently illumi
nated number plates, examination into
the qualifications, mental, moral and
physical, of every applicant for a li
cense, and for the permanent disqual
ification, of every operator twice con
victed of operating while urder the nl
fluence of lntoxicafcng liquors.
VIRGINIUS J. MAYO
IN BUSINESS TROUBLE
Receiver Appointed for His Radiator
Factory In New Haven.
New Haven, Conn, Dec 7. Virgin
ius J, Mayo, whose matrimonial trou
bles came to public notice following
the suicide of his stenographer, Lil
lian Cook, lost his first legal skirmish
In complicated business troubles to
day, when Judge Green of the super
ior court appointed a temporary re
ceiver for his radiator, factory here.
James E. Wheeler of this city was
named as receiver for one month, un
der bond of $25,000.
The "appointment came after E. B.
Shoemaker, J. D. Livingston and oth
ers of New York had asked the court
to dissolve the company. They claim
to own ten per cent, of the stock.
Mr. Mayo, who insists he owns a
majority of the stock, was arrested
earlier In the day, charged with as
saulting Mr. Shoemaker, who claims
he was authorized to take charge of
the factory.
Private detectives, employed by both
sides, who have been guarding the
property, left the plant tonight.
AUTO TRUCK AND MOTOR
AMBULANCE IN COLLISION.
One Man Killed and Several Persons
Injured at Quincy, Mass.
Quincy. Mass, Dec 7. Jerome Sul
livan of the Dorchester district was
killed and several persons were slight
ly Injured today in a collision between
an automobile truck and a motor am
bulance of the Massachusetts Homeo
pathic hospital, Boston. Idllle Cela, 9
years old. who was being removed to
the hospital, suffering from diphtheria,
escaped without injury, as did the
nurse and driver of the ambulance.
Sullivan was . an assistant on the
truck and fell-beneath it after striking
a street light" Daniel C. Hurley of the
Roxbury district, driver of the truck,
was held y the police on a charge of
operating without a license.
Cabled Paragraphs
More Men For British Army.
"London Dec. 7. 8.77 n. m. The re
lease for military service of all pos
sible semi-skilled men who are now
engaged in the manufacture of muni
tions, -has been agreed upon by the ad.
miralty, the ministry of munitions and
the army council. . ; -
Cardinal Mercier Under Restraint.
Amsterdam, via London. Dec. 7. 11:43
p. m. Cardinal Mercier, primate of
Belgium, is confined to .his palace by
the German authorities, according to
the frontier correspondent of the Tel-
egraaf, who says he hears . this . on
good authority. The reason given Is
the action . taken by the cardinal
against the deportation of Belgians.
FOREIGNERS KILLED IN.
MEXICO BY BANDITS.
An American Called to the Door and
Shot Through Head.
El Paso, Tex., Dec. 7. Three more
names were added today to the list of
foreigners reported to haw been killed
in Mexico by bandits. They are
Gutllermo Snyman, son of the late
General W. P. Snyman, of Boer . war
fame; Howard Weeks, or - Howard
Gray, as he was known in Mexico, and
an American named Foster. Although
they were believed to have been killed
many days ago, the news of their fate
only reached the border today.
Young Snyman was reported to have
met his death at San Pablo de Meoqui.
Chihuahua, near Chihuahua City.
Howard Weeks, an employe vf an
American mining concern, was called
to the door of his home near Parral,
shot through the head by Villa bandits
and his body then hanged in the door-
yard, according to Information brought
to the border by Spanish refugees
Weeks, who went by the name of Gray,
was married and had five children.
Little has yet been learned of the
third victim. A letter from a Spaniard
in Torreon to a countryman here said
an American named Foster had been
horribly maltreated and then burned to
death at a stake in the presence of his
son. The mtirder occurred near Tor.
reon, the letter said.
Villa's bandits also looted many
American homes in - Chihuahua City,
carrying off large quantities of Ameri
can-owned property and destroying
what they were unable to haul away,
messages from the Chihuahua capital
stite.
. The home of Donald -B..-.Gilliee; -an
American mJning operator ifi Chihua
hua was looted of virt'ially everything
it contained, according to one mes
sage. The family Act ti the border.
The curio store belonging to Howard
Schneider, said to be a German sub
ject, was robbed, it was reported.
Almost a solid block of stores belong
ing to Arabs and other foreigners was
burned, according to another report.
Government agents here received a
report today that more than 150 Mexi
cans were executed by the Villa men. '
A delegation of American mining
mer are. planning lo leave here , next
week to make a ninvestigation of con
ditions .. in , Chihuahua ..City, .-. Two
agents of the Chinese -coveriuuont-aKe.
said to have left Juare sttoday for Chi
huahua City to investigate the reported
killing t about 60 Chinese.
RESTRICTIONS ON AMERICAN ;
TRADE WITH RUSSIA
Announced by British Embassy in a
Circular Letter.
Washington, Dec 7. New restric
tions on American trade with Russia
were announced today by tha British
embassy in a circular setting forth
conditions to govern -shipments pass
ing through the blockade lines, into
Sweden, through which country most
American exports to Russia are hand
led. Aside from goods destined for
the Russian government, only thirty
four commodities can be sent to Rus
sia under the regulations and rigid
conditions must be complied with be
fore letters of assurance for the ship
ments will be issued.
The step is believed here to be the
outcome of a conflict in the trade pol
icies heretofore followed by Great
Britain, Russia and Swelen and is un
drstood to have as its object the .limi
tation of Russia's imports through
Sweden to necessities, particularly
war goods. Sweden,- smarting under
the Brtish blockade and rationing
measure, is said to have taken steps
to retaliate, which resulted in the
more stringent regulations announc.ed
today.
The list of goods for which the
British embassy will issue letters of
assurance to American exporters to
Russia and Finland includes the fol-r
lowing: for which such assurances are
given under the present regulations:
Binoculars, medicaments and ther
mometers, sulphur tartaric and citric
acids, dyes, varnishes, photographic
plates, phosphors, machinery, except
lathes, carbonate of ammonia, blue
copperas (sulphate of copper), vege
table seeds, paraffin, oils, tar, wax,
colophany (rosin) American cotton,
salt and rice.
The remaining articles on the list
have not been subject to such regu
lations before and officials are uncer
tain what will be the effect of their
inclusion in the group which may be
shipped under letters of assurance.
Most of them are produced from
raw material usually exported from
Great Britain. They are: metals, ex
cept lead, rubber, leather, castor oil,
graphite, jute sacks, wool, twine, shel
lac, cocoanuts, Egyptian cotton, wool
en materials and pepper.
F. L. SMALL INDICTED
FOR 'WIFE MURDER
Pleaded Not Guilty December 26 Fix
ed as Date of Trial.
Osslpee, N. II., Dec. 7. Frederick L.
Small, formerly a Boston broker, -was
indicted today for murder . .- by the
grand jury which had investigated the
death of his wife, Mrs. Arlene C. Small,
who was strangled, shot and beaten to
death in her home here whic was burn
ed in an attempt to conceal the crime,
on September 28 last.
Immediately after the indictment
was returned Small was brought Into
court and pleaded not guilty. Judge
Kivel, who is presiding, fixed De
cember 26 as the date of the trial.
SITUATION IS QUIET
IN SANTO DOMINGO.
a -
Payments of Public Funds Resumed by
American Officials.' .
Santo Domiiigo, Dominican Republic,
Dec, 7. The situation is now quiet in
Santo Domingo, in - which - American
military, rule -was proclaimed last
month.. Payments by the government,
which were suspended for : several
months on account of the retention of
public funds by the American officials,
have been resumed.-,
Lloyd George Galls
v . at Buckingham
FORMALLY ACCEPTED OFFICE OF
PRIME MINISTER
KISSED KING'S HANDS
New Cabinet is to Have Representa
tives of All Parties, Except the Na
tionalists A Strong Business Ele
ment Predicted.
London, Dec 7." 10.55 p. m. David
Lloyd George at Buckingham Palace
tonight formally kissed the king's
hands on his acceptance of the offices
of prime minister and first lord of the
treasury. This indicates that In an
unexpectedly short time the new pre
mier sees his way to the formation of
an administration and he was prob
ably able to submit to the king a pre
liminary draft list of the principal
proposed ministers.
Ministry a Matter of Speculation.
' Doubtless much remains to be done
In the way of the allocation of the
new posts and so far as the public is
concerned the personnel of the min
istry is a matter of pure speculation.
But the premier still has plenty of
time before he has to meet parlia
ment, on Tuesday, to complete details
and he will doubtless be in a position
to present to the house of commons
his new national ministry, represent
ing all parties with the possible ex
ception of the Nationalists, end, if
common report Is to be trusted, com
prising a strong business element.
Little Reliance Upon Rumors.
Little reliance can be placed upon
the numerous names canvassed dur
ing the day but it seems certain that
his -field ot choice is much wider than
was hastily assumed last night when
the admittedly, difficult task confront
ing him was uppermost in the public
mind and provoked misgivings regard
ing his chances of securing any con
tinued support in parliament. These
misgivings to. a large extent .have dis
appeared, "-'jnainly owing to . the fact
that he has been able to gam the sup
port of the Labor party by an offer
of two ministerial posts and three un-der-secretaryships.
With the vote of the Laborites, to
gether with the bulk of the Unionists
and a large section of the Liberals
demanding more energetic prosecution
of the war, Mr. Lloyd George will
probably command a -working major
ity In the house of commons, while a
further asset will be tbe benevolent
neutrality even of the supporters of
tne late cabinet In the national inter
ests. ' A"C;i5.f . -.. ,-. .. ,;-.- s- ; ,, .
CT-Wr-HARKNESS -LEFT AN Jf V
' - ' . ESTATE WORTH $49,566895
Was Third Largest Holder of Standard
. -Oil Stock.
- New 'York, Dec. 7. Charles W
Harkness, who at the time of his leath
May 1 last, was said to be the third
largest holder of Standard Oil stock,
left an estate worth $49,566,895, ac
cording to an appraisal filed with the
surrogate here today. His brother.
Edward S. Harkness, is the chief bene
ficiary under the will, receiving ap
proximately $86,182,000. To his widow.
Mrs. Mary" -Warden Harkness, the der
ceased left more than $12,000,000 Yale
Unversity and the Presbyterian Hos
poqrsanbaq ajSM. S)o sjtrj jo re?id
$5,000,000 and $350,000 respectively.
Lend-a-Hand Mission was also remem
bered to the extent of $25,000.
Cash in bank at the time of Mr.
Harkness' death amounted to $2,322.-
694. A schedule- of stocks and bonds.
filed with "the report, showed that he
was interested in several hundred rail
roads and large industrial concerns.
His holdings in Standard Oil, esti
mated to be worth $25,525,909, were
part of the bequest to his brother.
The amount to be paid by the estate
to the state in inheritance taxes will
approximate nearly $2,000,000.
RETAIL PRICES OF
FOODSTUFFS DROPPING
Housewives' Boycott is Showing Good
Results.
Portland, Oregon, Dec. 7. Retail
prices of eggs, butter and other food
stuffs against which a housewives
boycott has been in effect all week.
dropped in Portland markets today and
some grocery stores. Leaders of the lo
cal campaign against high prices said
the boycott caused the reduction. Eggs,
which sold at 65 and 70 cents a dozen
Monday, retailed for 50 cents today
and farmers butter dropped from yes
terday's price of 45 cents a pound to
Hb cents.
Eggs 28 1-2 Cents in Chicago.
Chicago, Dec. 7. Eggs were quoted
on the local butter and egg exchange
at 28 1-2 cents a dozen today, three
cents" below yesterday's price and ten
cents less than a week ago.
MRS. EMMELINE PANKHURST
- VISITS LLOYD-GEORGE MEN
Wants Women to Be Taken Into Ae
count in Reconstruction of Cabinet.
London. Dec. 7. 11.58 p. - m. Mrs,
Emmeline Pankhurst, the militant suf
fragette, saw some of Mr. Lloyd
George's chief supporters today, as
she does not desire a reconstruction of
the cabinet achieved without the
cause or women being taken into ac
count.
The Asquith ministry passed through
a trying ordeal while the militant suf
fragette campaign was at its height,
but a truce has been declared on mili
tant methods during the war. The
suffragettes foresee that the new cabi
net may survive the . war ' and -have
much to do in shapping the future
situation or women, it is recalled that
that Mr. Lloyd George was a conspic
uous figure at the review of the mon
ster women's demonstration early in
tne war.
.Villa Moving Toward Parral.."
' Juarez. Mex.. Dec. 7. Villa was re
ported to hav; reached Satevo. 45
miles southwest of Chihuahua Citv.
and 70 miles northwest of Parral, on
u uesaay witn nis mam command and
large quantities of loot from Chihua
hua City, an officer of General Fran
cisco' Gonzales' staff.' who accomnacied
him from 'Chihuahua - City,- said-. . It
was believe! at the capital Villa was
going to arral.
C, H. Wax Winced
Before His Wife
CLAIMS MISS BROOKS IS ONLY
WOMAN HE MARRIED ,
HIT BY SISTER-IN-LAW
Miss Brooks, in Picking Wax From a
Roomful of Men, Pointed at Him
and Said: "I Know That Speci
men." New York, Dec. 7. Five more per
sons, including one wife, recognized
in Charles H. Wax today the man
they had known as "Oliver Osborne,
or under some of his other aliases.
Wax, who is held under $50,000 bail as
a material witness in afederal case,
Was brought, here from Chicago to
clear the name of James W. Osborne,
a prominent attorney, who had been
accused by Miss Rae Tanzer of breach
of promise, after courting her as
Oliver Osborne. Wax has admitted
that it was he who was Miss Tan
zer"s friend.
Admitted Marriage.
Wax was identified by Miss Ethel
Brooks as the man she married in
Hoboken, N. J., early in 1914 under the
name of Maise Mason Nye. Wax ad
mitted the accusation but asserted that
"Miss Brooks was the only woman
they can prove I did marry.
Assistant United States Attorney-
General Roger B. Wood, in charge of
the case, admitted this contention was
true.
"So far as we know," said Mr. Wood,
"Wax never married any other wo
man than Miss Brooks. The woman in
Chicago who passed as his wife, Mrs.
Francis Burke, he did not marry, we
believe."
-.Mr.. Wood added that as soon as
Wax's services are no longer required
as a material witness in the perjury
and other cases against those figures
in the Tanzer breach of promise suit
he... will, be .turned, over to the local p ci
lice-tor -answer: to a' Charge of grand
larceny, made against him by Katn
erine Meisenheimer, a nurse maid who
claims never to have seen Wax after
giving him $200 to invest for her two
years ago.
Identified By Fourteen.
Fourteen persons altogether have
now identified Wax as the adventurer
the federal authorities claim him to be.
Besides Miss Brooks, those wno con
fronted him tv were Mrs. Lillian
Miller, Miss Brooks' ' sister, with
whom Wax boarded for a time; Frank
Livingstone, a lawyer, Mrs. , T. P.
O'Connor, owner- of T a rooming house
patrolman, and the latter's wife. k
."For the first time since his arrival
here, Wax showed emotion when he
was confronted by Miss Brooks, whom
r- diverted few days after he mar
ried her. When Miss Brooks walked
into the room in the federal bui'dlng
to which Wax had been taken from the
Tombs, he paled and shrank back.
His smile vanished and his eyes
searched the floor as Miss Brooks un
hesitatinerly identified him as the man
who had married her.
Winced Before Miss Brooks.
He ' wineort when Miss Brooks, In
answer to .'Mr. "Wood's query as to
whether she knew any of the men in
the room, poiited at him and said:
"I know this specimen."
Mrs. Mi'ler,- who corroborated her
sister, stepped up to Wax and struck
him repeadly- ononis chest with her
clenched fist. "
Wax was visibly embarrassed at
the visit of Mrs. O'Connor, a middle
aged, well dressed woman. At first
he failed to recognize her. but later
admitted she was one of his "land
ladies." He denied, however, that he
had borrowed $25 from her and ne
g'feted to repay the loan.
Smith, th patrolman, and Mrs.
Smith met Wax at Delaware Water
Gap, where ' he spent a vacation in the
summer of 1914, they said, and where
they took tho photographs used on the
circulars which indirectly Vd to his
arres Livingston said had
worked as foreman of his dairy farm
at Greenwich, Conn., for two months
in the spring of 1914 under the name
of C. B. Raymond.
During a lull in the day's proceed
ings. Wax was shown the two trunks,
suit case and traveling bag found in
the room in boarding house occupied
by "Oliver Osborne." He Identified
the contents as his. They included a
sealskin overcoat which he said was
worth $1800, a half dozen suits of
clothes, a ozen pairs of shoes, scores
of silk shirts and socks, five canes and
hundreds of small articles.
As Wax rummaged through the
traveling ha;, fi'led with odds and
ends, he i"rfbuted souvenirs among
the newspaper men and others present.
"I am very happy tonight," Wax
said as he returned to the Tombs. "I
have cleared the name of an innocent
man and at last I have all the under
wear I need." -
MOTORCYCLE MESSAGE FROM
TEXAS TO NEW YORK
Trip Made in Fourteen Days by Two
Guardsmen.
'Albany, N. Y., . Dec. 7. After trav
eling from UcAleen, Texas, to Albany
by motorcycle with a message from
Major General John F. -O'Ryan, two
national guardsmen were unable to de
liver their communication to Govern
or Whitman today because he was out
Of town. - The .militiamen. Corporal
Harvey A. Edwards of Brooklyn, and
Private Daniel Dresser,-of New York,
made- the trip in fourteen days.
LONG TERM SENTENCE
FOR HABITUAL CRIMINAL
George Brewer of Bloomfield Given 15
.' ..- ; , : . to 30 Years.
Hartford, Conn., Dec 7?, George
Brewer of. Bloomfield, charged with
being a habitual criminal was sentenc
ed to state's prison from fifteen to
thirty years ly Judge Webb in the
superior court today.
State's Attorney Alcorn announced
that he was strongly in favor of "fail
sentences for careless autoists as the
result of numerous automote fatali
ties recently. . Aaron Berman of Hart
ford, whose automobile killed a man
last week, was sent to Jail for a month
and fined -$200. Harry George of West
Hartford, charged with a similar of
fense, was sent to jail for six months.
- Condensed Telegrams
Herbert H. D. fierce, former Min
ister to Norawy, is dead.
E.-M. Bigelow, recently appointed di
rector of public works of Pittsburgh,
is dead.
The Manufacturers' & Traders' Bank,
of Buffalo, increased its capital from
$1,000,000 to $2,000,000. .
The Columbia Trust Co. of New
York Increased its capital from $2,-
000,000 to $5,000,000.
Jacques S, Halla of New York, who
died two weeks ago, left an - estate
valued at $1,000,000.
The body of Mrs. Lydia Brown, of
Rockaway Park, Queens Borough, was
found in Jamaica bay.
Gov. Fielder of New Jersey, issued
a proclamation designating next Sun
day as tuoercuiosis day.s.
Exports from the port of Phila
delphia for the month of November
were valued at $38,000,000.
Fire aboard the -teamer Great City,
in dock in - the Erie Basin, Brooklyn,
destroyed grain worth- $2,000.
No reports of the death of foreign
ers in Mexico had been received last
night at the state department.
Gold coin to the amount of $1,000,000
was' withdrawn from the Sub-Treasury
for shipment to San Francisco.
The International Paper Co, of
Watertown, N. Y., announced an in
crease of 10 per cent, in wageQ.
Bids for the four largest and swiftest
battle cruisers ever authorized were
opened at the Navy Department.
Admiral Sir Cecil Burney, who was
Admiral Jellicoe's second in command
of the Grand Fleet, wa appointed
Sea Lord.
Gold coin to the amount of $1,000,000
was withdrawn from the sub-treasury
for shipment to South America and
$200,000 to Spain.' y
7 William J. Maier, chairman of the
assembly ways and means committee,
was appointed deputy fiscal supervisor
of state charities. .. ... ...
Alexander Schlicke, president of the
Gerrain Metal Trades Labor Union,
was appointed a member of the War
Office. Department
Prohibition of betting on elections
was proposed in an amendment to the
corrupt practices bill offered by Sen
ator Kenyon of Iowa.
Adolph Loeffler, of New York, plead
ed guilty before Judge Nott in General
Session to a charge of grand larceny
in the second degree.
a . ' .: . ' "
The Bureau of , Navigation of the
, icj.y y .LJt!ja.ruHf?nb -cinnounceu umi tne
! Atlantic .fleet will be sent to the Fan
anCan-extspringi-'-'-'-
Charles Q. Hiidebrandt, secretary of
state, ordered a state-wide investiga
tion of charges of fraud and error in
the recent Ohio election.
President Wilson sent a telegram to
George C. Boldt", expressing sorrow for
the death of Mr. Boldt s father, man
ager of the Waldorf-Astoria.
Robert N. Harper, of. Washington,
was ceiected' as chairman of the com
mittee to have charge of President
Wilson s second Inauguration cere
monies. .-.;.- .,-, ..;JK, .. .t . .
Harry M. Landis, treasurer of Pitts
burgh and one of t!. best .known
bankers , in the city, ud at his resi-
; dence yesterdrn- at Pittsburgh of heart
uisease, ageo s3. . '
Commissioner of Weights and Meas
ures Hartigan announced that investi
gatons made by him have proved that
twelve men are repc.onsible for high
food prices In New York. f
Proposed advances in- lumber rates
I on railroads operating from points in
Arkansas to Pensacola, Fla., were sus
! pended by the Interstate Commerce
i Commission until April 2.
The strike of the stage hands in
i Hartford in progress for more than
' two weeks, had been settled. The men
jare given an increase in wages and
; double pay for Sunday work.
The Council of National Defense cre
ated by the National Defense Act and
composed of six Cabinet officers and
seven civilians, held its first formal
meeting at the War Department.
The 160 riveter, employed on the
battleships New, Mexico .under con
struction in the Brooklyn Navy Yard,
who struck for a 20 per cent, increase
in wages, will return to work today.
Leonard M. Walstein, Commissioner
of Accounts, New Yorkt sent to Police
Commissioner Wood a list of coal
dealers who have agreed to sell coal
to poor families at frm $7 to $8 a ton.
.... . .
Josephua Daniels, Secretary of the
Navy, signed a contract with Homer
R. Ferguson, president of the Newport
News Shipbuilding and Dry Dock Co.,
for the construction of two battleships.
Jesse Taylor, director-general of the
National Highways Association of
Washington, D. C, and president of the
Ohio Good Roads- Federation, died at
his home at Jamestown, Ohio, yester
day. . - -
A lone robber threw pepper in the
face of an express wagon g-uard in the
rear of a downtown building at Los
Angeles, seized $20,00 in gold and cur
rency from the express wagon and
escaped. . ' . '
One hundred members of the crew
of the Spanish steamship Pio IX. from
New Orleans for Barcelona, were
drowned by the sinking of the vescel
in a storm when 200 miles off the Ca
nary Islands.
The Russian' Government informed
the State Department it will not per
mit American physicians to enter Rus
sia for the mi pose of administering to
German cvilian and war prisoner in
Russan camps. , .
... f .....
" The police of Nashua, N. H joined
with the selectmen, and a posse of the
town of Hollis In searching for Mrs.
Samuel Hayden, 80 years of age, who
disappeared .-. -Wednesday night from
her home in the latter town
The Scandinavian-American - liner
Oscar II left Copenhagen yesterday for
New York. ' Among those on her pas
senger list are L. ; Lanier Winslow,
secretary, and Colonel Joseph E Kuhn,
former military attache of the Ameri
can embassy at Berlin. . -
5
WIltlmNTiG 1EN
INSTANTLY f
When Automobile Was Struck by a C. V. Tram 6ns
Mile South of Stafford Springs Railroad Station
THE MEN WERE TOSSED
Car Was Struck at a Dangerus
the Occupants Had No Warning of the Train's Approach
Henry St. Pierre, Algot B. Clansman, Preston Auster
haut, O. L. Swanson and Fred Korell, the Victims, All
Carpenters, Were Returning to Willimantic, After Com
pleting Day's Work All of the Men Killed Were Married
and Most of Them Leave Children Willimantic Was
Shocked by News of the Accident. " : ':"-.. '" "f Z -
Stafford Springs, Conn-' Dec. 7. I
Five men were killed and one serioits-
ly injured late today when a north
bound train on the Central Vermont
railroad struck an automobile at a
grade crossing a mile south of the
local railroad station. The men were
carpenters from Willimantic, employed
t a local house. -
The deadr .. '
Henry, St. Pierre.
Algot B. Clansman.
Preston Austerhaut.
A. S. Swanson- -Fred
Kovell.
W. D. Lasem is in the Johnson Me:
morial hospital here, sufferini; from
severe injuries, but physicians say he
has a good chance of recovery
The men had completed their day's
woik and started for Willimantic by
automobile. The crossing near the
electric ligh-. station, where the acci
dent occurred, is a dangerous one, be
ing hidden on either side by hMls. Ap
parently the occupants of the cur had
no warning of tne train's approach, for
the machine was hit squarely. The
men were tossed in all directions, two
being hurled into - a' brook, two others
on a trestle and the rest ort-the roadside..,-.
-,..---. -mr- -
The train was brought to a stop and
the frightened passengers assisted" the
SUBMARINE WARFARE
IS A CRITICAL ISSUE
Made So by Germany's Acceptance of
' Responsibility for Arabia.
"Washington, Dec. 7. Germany's ac
ceptance of responsibility for the
sinking without' warning of the Brit
ish liner Arabia, with the explanation
that her submarine commander took
the vessel for .an auxiliary warship,
has brought the issue over submanne
warfare to a more serious and clear
cut basis than- anything that has hap
pened since the threat of the Unit d
States last ' April to break diplomatic
relations -after the torpedoing t-f the
channel 'steamer Sussex. -
Such information as the American
government now ha tends to show
the Arabia to have been a pfsenger
ship of the Peninsular and Orient:'!
line, passin? through the Mediterra
nean on a regular voyage. Amin; the
many passengers was an American
citizen who was rescued
The German note which wns made
public today by the state department
says if official data is furnished,
showing that the vessel was an ordi
nary passenger steamer, "this then
would be a case of regreV.a ol" mH
tak from which the German govern
ment would promptly- draw the ap
propriate consectuences." It is as
Bumed here thit the consequences
would be an expression of regret and
an offer of reparation for an injury
or danger .suffered by the American
on board.
MARRIAGE OF ROYALTY
PERFORMED IN PARIS
Prince Nicholas Vladaovich Engalit
cheff. Weds Madame V. Bertrand.
Paris, Dev. 7. Prince Nicholas Vlad
novich EngalitcheffJ former Russian
vice-consul at Chicago and Madame V.
Bertrand of Paris were married today
In thie mayor's office in the sixteenth
Arrondlssement. Prince Peter Kouch
eff of the Russian embassy here Was
a member of the wedding party.
Prince Enaralitcheff was divorced in
New York in June of the present year
by his wife, who was Evelyn Partridge
the daughter of Charles W. Partridge
cf Chicago. - ,
PENNSYLVANIA REPUBLICAN
CAM PA IN EXPENSES $138,705
Contributions Amounted to $138,009
Democratcs Spent About $68,000.
Harrisburg, Pa., Dec 7. Total ex
penditures of the republican state
committee during the recent campaign
were $138,705, of which $23,000 went
to pay the debts of the committee, ac
cording to the financial statement filed
tonight by the treasurer of the com
mittee. Contributions amounted to
$138,998.
The statement -of the democratic
state committee showed receipts of
$65,052, disbursements og $63,563 and
unpaid bills- amounting to $5,254.
Movements of Steamships.
Kirkwall, Dec. 5. Sailed, steamer
Hellig Olav (from Copenhagen), New
York.
Copenhagen, Dec. 7. Sailed, steamer
Oscar II, New York.
Falmouth, Dec. 7. Sailed : Noordam,
New York. .
Danish Steamer Sunk.
London. Dec. ; ",,-9:27 p. - m. The
Danish steamer Halendan. 1,307 tons,
the Norwegian steamer Ella and- the
Danish schooner Marie have been sunk
by submarines. The crews were landed.
QLLED
IN ALL DIRECTIONS
Grade Crossing Apparently
train crew in picking1 up the mangled
bodes. After an hour's delay, the train
resumed its trip to Brattleboro, VL- 4
WILLIMANTIC SHOCKED '
BY NEWS OF ACCIDENT.
All of the Victims Were MaTied
Most of Them Leave Children. -
Willimanlic, Conn., Dec 7. This city
wa sshocked tonight oyer the news of
the death of five well known-carpenters
in . the automobile crash with a train
at Stafford Springs. All of the vic
tims were married and most of them
leave children. ' i
Henry St. Pierre was 35 yeans old,
leaves his wife and three children; A. -B.
Clansman was about 412 years old, is
survived by his wife and a child; A.
S. Swanson leaves his wife and three
children; : Preston Austerhaut is
mourned by a wife an! child, and fred
Kovell, aged 28. leaves his wife Lasem,
who is in a hospital, is married.
All were' employed by' Latham 4fc
Crane, local contractors. The news of
the accident spread rapidly and there
wee pathetic scenes when the families
of the dead men were notified. " Under-"
-takers ief t-tomght for Staford Fprmgs
to bring the bodies to Wllllmantlo for
burial. . . ... .'. ' - . ,
. 11 1 1 . "' :.
SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO,
SO-CALLED COAL CORNER.
Manipulations ; of Speculators One
Cause of High Prices of Necessities-
. - . . .. -j '
Washington, , . Doc. . 7: Information
gathered from' man sources by gov
ernment, off cials conducting the na- 1
tion-wide inquiry . into ?the high cost
rec ness tor.jght to the coucluson that
the soaring prices-of certain necessi
ties of life were-due to the-manipula
tions of speni'ator who had combined
to force quotations upward.
These combinations are- believed by
the governrrent investigators- to-have
beer, criminal In charpy-ter.,"" rathe? -Fp.ismodic
and raibiT sho:t-llved.
Special attention Is being give.i Just
now to alleged price manipulation i
the so-called coal corner which recent
ly resulted In sending ' prices to a
panic level. Investigation of the high
prit e of coal, har.Hy as yet begun, has -already
convinced wo-ne offlciil that
there was no warrant whatever for $12
coal in Borton and New York other
than the activity ot thse alleged com
binations. W.ether men w'io pr-ftad
mowt can "he punlshe.l under f-deral
laws is sail to be still under rcnsld- -eration.
, ...
- Every federal ag-ncy with even a.
remote relation to the situation was
called on today to play Its part In the
rreat machinery of investigation which
lib Kuvemment nan put into rpera
tion. A mass of material has poured
into the attorney general's offlcv most -of
which st'll is undigested, but all of
which will he studied and - utilized
wh-re available. -;'. "
With the investigation in its infancy
officials were unwiiiing "to pre-llct to-
night where it might lead. The ac-;
tiv'ties" of certain men, however, are' '
kn.iwn to be under surveillance and no
small part of the work assigned to the
fifty odd investigators in the ffel4 has
Deen the checking of transactions dar-.-ingr
the last few months by these men.
NUMEROUS DEATHS AMONG
. CIVIL WAR VETERANS
Made Large Gaps in Government's
Pension Roll Last Year. . .
Washington, Dec. 7. Deaths anions'
Civil War veterans made large gaps in '
the government's pension rolls during'
the past year. The report; of Commis
sioner Saltzgaber of the pension bu
reau, made public today, shows that
the names of more than 50,000 of the
old soldiers passed from the list, re
ducing their total to 286,000, hardly
more than a third of what it was
eighteen years ago. There was a net
reduction- In all pensioners of 38,000
and in tl amount paid for pensions
of $6,000,000. Pensions aggregating -$159,156,000
went to 709.572 persons.
CAPTAIN 8. H. BECK WITH,'
VETERAN TELEGRAPHER, DEAD -v
i - - -
He was Known During the War as'
"Grant's Shadow."
TJtlca, NV Y., Nov. 7. Captain Sam-:
nel H. Beckwlth. veteran telegrapher, -known
during the. war, - as Grant's
shadow," as he handled all the cipher
despatches of that general and accompa. :
anied him from Fort Donaldson to the
surrender of Lee, died today in a sold-"
iers home in " Hampton ', Roads, - Va.
Captain Beckwlth was a resident of '
Utica until he went to the -retreat,',
where he died, f
- French Chamber Votes CoBfldence.":' 1
Paris, Dec. 7. -9.15 p. nu The
chamber of deputies by a vote-of 34
to 160 tonight passed a resolutidn ex
pressing confidence in the government
In Its conduct f the war. - - - -
