ygjgiXiflit "i ''
tfinancialediti6n
, k
NIGHT
EXTRA
' ,4,
ituentng
jjSTRA
fefrner
NIGHT
EXTRA
b
IT" -
'l
vv
VOL. III. NO. 74
PHILADELPHIA, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1916
RUMANIANS
LOSE 18,000
IN RETREAT
Germans Trap and Cap
ture Sections of
Fleeing Army
PRINCIPAL FORCES
, MANAGE TO ESCAPE
Teutons Rush Troops to
Monastir Front for New
Offensive
CoMiiiaiiT. 10l. t Ton Pernio Urew Covnsr.'
SIGNS OF CHRISTMAS GROW APACE
FRENCH REGAIN HILL 304
I, Allies Begin Rigid Blockade of
Greece lociny oiiuuuun
Serious
i All the way ncrosa Rumnnin, from the
Trsnsytvanian Alps to tl(o Danube, tKc
flight of the Rumanian army continues.
f. The pursuit by the German allies keeps
op, the German war unice announced
today.
Ten thousand more Russian and Ru
manian prisoners were captured yes
terday by the Ninth German nrmy. In
supplementary statement, the Ger
man' War Office had announced the
capture of 8000 prisoners and twenty
iir &uns on December C. South of
Predeal and Altachanz Passes, Russo
Rumanian armies wore trapped. Only
partial attacks by the Russians along
toe Carpathian front arc reported. All
were repulsed with heavy losses for the
attacking forces, Berlin asserts. The
. earlier statement reported also the de
feat of a Rumanian army on the Alt
River on December C, the day Bucha
rest fell.
The retreat of the Rumanian army,
according to Allied reports, con
tinues in an orderly manner. The
Rumanians aro approaching a new line
p if defense, below old Moldavia, between
b upper uanuDO ana me irnnsyi
'vmian Alps. Thoy aro expected to
fcaake n strong stand on this now front,
' VWch, because of its shortness, nnt
t oral protection offered bv- the Tran-
!Tanuui5lIps to tho Rumanian right
otnK and its proximity to Kussian lines
el supplies will offer an opportunity
for effective resistance and, perhaps,
permanent intrenchment
Operations of secondary importance
flays been begun by tho Teutons in tho
Dobrudja, evidently with tho purpose of
tlearing northern Dobrudja of Russo
Rumanlan troops and thus completing
the conquest of southern Rumania and
the entire line of tho Danube to its
- (south.
Latest war dispatches indicate the
intention of the Central Empires to
make their mastery of the Balkans
tomplete. As a result, the military
situation todny has forced tho political
Upheaval in Allied cniintrli in ihri
f background and thrust forward what
nay be regarded as tire beginning ,of
another great struggle this time'on
the Macedonian front. Heayy German
"-enforcements are being rushed from
Rumania to tho Monastir lino for what
London considers as a great offensive
ajainst the combinpil Vn.m.h qni,i
I British and Italian forces of General
MrrafL
That the Allies nre conscious of this
fact and are nronarino- in moot it- ;
tidenc,ed in the rigid blockade of
weeee put in force today. The Allies
evidently determined to eliminate,
" Possible, the mfnna nninl,i : .
I i1 frce under Ki"B Constuntine
1, oafna rear, by compelling a gen
f.?amoblMon of tho Greek army
the inn-render of tho administrative
Mehinerv of r.mar.a t. m .
W h.j n - i mo miieu com
I aand. Constantine, for the present at
I ,ea-t. continues .lafln-. ...-i-., - ,
I hope that a quick German blow,
CUaiMi on fgt Eithl. Column On
aiteyJ editors
b iiv. ', M' uec" Enos
BJnk ,i. ' "" c,oaetl Lemaster
-U. 0? ift?1 t0. aeorK A. Greet.
Wtori iT.?"te,r' for benefit of
NHd,S?l5" ?aO" worth
I m mountain , i I W .' '""" " Lemaster
-i -wui. ftf,vvtf.
Tjatikat x m '"W' U SssfssssesMBHsas'ilSXa .jstsa
efe.j i !HPL ?fe 'i'ii5. IP JRali4iWv SQf isK 1& ' Wl
yimmh.msmBm
PRICE. ONE CENT
LIBERALS BACK
LLOYD GEORGE
IN GREAT TASK
Party Out of Povvef
Joins Laborites in-
Pledging Support
TO AID NEW PREMIER
IN VIGOROUS POLICY
Irish Nationalists Not Yet
Decided in Attitude May
Bargain for Home Rule
PERSONNEL NOT SETTLED
Announcement of Assignments
in Ministry Likely to Be With
held Till Tuesday
Dnvid Lloyd George will have not only
the support of tho Unionists in his
formntion of the now British Ministry,
but nlso of tho I.aborilcs and tho Lib
erals, including their chief, former
Premier Asnuith. Only tho Irish Nn
tionnlist vote is not yet assured. The
Liberal members at n general meeting
have decided to support tho now Gov
ernment in Its prosecution of the war.
British merchant ships nre being
nrmed with guns of high'cnllbor lo pro
tect tho great trade of tho empire.
Adequate measures to curb tho U-boat
ravages form one demand of tho agi
tation which resulted in the downfall
of tho Asquith Cnbinct.
The Cabinet turmoil in England 'is
finding an echo in Paris. A largo por
tion of the press has united in declar
ing in favor of a new deal, so far as
Franco is individually concerned. The
reconstruction of Government in France
will not tnko tho form of a ministerial
shift, but of n reorganization of the
General Staff nnd a concentration of
military control under a limited direc
tion. Premier Rriand has been accorded
a vote of confidence.
EXTRA
ANOTHER AMERICAN STEAMSHIP
REPORTED SUNK BY U-BOAT
NEW YOHK, Dec. 8. A report was current In shipping circles
thin afternoon that the United States steamship Virginia, yooa tons,
hrid Iwen sunk In tho Mediterranean by a submarine. The Virginia
sailed fiom this port for Spcr.la on November 2-1, arriving there on
December !. Later alio steamed for Genoa. At tho offices of Gaston
Williams & Wlgmorc, owners of tho Virginia, doubt was cast upon
tho report.
PROSECUTIONS,
0'NEIL'S PLANS
IN RISK PROBE
Criminal Action Promised
in Pension Mutual Life
Exposure-
TO INCREASE FARM PROFIT AND REDUCE LIVING COST
. wm yUK' nC" s-,':,lc'", Orccnhut. us president of u company which Im.i
unco fncllltlP, of tho I.onR IMamt Itnllway to stttp farm product to the homo of con
iimers todny innclo public n letter to President WII.011. In which tho plan Is offered
to tho United Stat.-, tSovernment. Cireenhut. In tho letter, declares nn Incrciuo In
farm rovema- of li.ooo.000.000 In nuurcl If the plan I, put Into full operation, nnd
nMiires n decrc-mc lu cost to ronmimera of an equal amount. Tho lotlor also claims
tnni ti,o nvcrnKo family Income run ho Increased to $100. as compared with 1600.
according to the 1910 census. The offer I-. oontlncont upon the Prcsldenf decision
10 appoint hefore December 26 a committee, of seven "unblnscd" persons to nmlto
an InvestlKatlon. To put tho system Into effect this commltteo must nccept It be
fore .Iniuiury S. 1917.
HEARING ON DECEMBER i8
Insurance Commissioner in Pitta
burgh Todny, Gnthoring
Further Evidcnco ;,
I2i5 AIRCRAFT LOST ON WAR FRONTS IN NOVEMBER
HKItl.lN (via Snyvlllc wireless). Dec. S.-Nlncty-four Allied aoroplaneH nnd
thlrty-one (.crmnn miichlncs were loit on all fronts during November, tho War
Olllce reported today.
"Carry your own bundles" is n slogan being urged by the big stores
while the pre-Christmas rush is on, and above is a picture of women
shoppers following tho advice. Below, is, a scene that needs no words
to describe it.
LONDON, Dec. 8.
All doubt that Lloyd George, to whom
the King hna Intrusted the Premiership.
would not have complete support for-ihls.
now Government In Parliament vraa mvept
nivny today, tvhtn tho Liberal party mem
bers, In conference, formally resolved to
support the new regime In the prosecution,
of tho war.
The action means Lloyd George -will not
only bo backed up by tho Unionists nnd the
Laborites totaling 321 votes out of tho
070 In Common but also by tho Liberal
block of votes, 2S0 more.' The Irish Na-
WOMAN SAVED FROM FLAMES HY MILKMAN
Airs. Kllzaboth Qulnlow. sixty yenrs old. who lives alnna lit -1534 Morion avo
nuc, was saved from possible death by (lro by u milkman today. Sho was awakened
by n sensation of warmth at her feot and dlscoverod tho bed clothing on fire. Sho
screamed nnd an carlytnornlnc milkman, who disappeared before his nnmu could
bo learned, rushed Into tho house, look Slrn. Qulnlow from tho bed and returned to
tho street, lo send n tire alarm. Mrs. Qulnlow's sllBlit burns were dressed at tho
West Philadelphia llomcpalhlc Hospital.
POINCARE HONORS AMERICAN VOMAN FOR WAR AID WORK
PAU1S, Deo. 8. On tho ov of her departure for her homo in tho United States
Mrs. Nina Lnrroy Duryen, who bus been active In Trench war relief work, re
ceived a KOld medal today, presented to her by President Polncnrc. Mrs. Suryea
nnlla for Amorlca tomorrow.
Continued on I'nio Kliht, Column Thrr
MAIL CAR DRIVERS
CALLED RECKLESS
"Divine-Right Speeders" to
Have No Mercy, Says
Magistrate
HELD FOR INJURING BOY
THE WEATHER
FORECAST .
n .... . ""
2L rtSiL"" Ba,urda " PralZw
ht moderat nii. most-
1 m ,wBr.wsr"
I tr '3 HUh jr.t.r. .1 Jjjs p.m.
Magistrate Watson today branded driv
ers of some United States mall trucks as
"governmental, dlvlne-rlght Bpoeders." and
declared he was through dealing leniently
with them. He held lu J100 ball William
W. McNeil, 5528 Jane street, driver of a
United States mall truck, who yesterday
ran down umPserlously Injurud four-year-old
Kenneth K-Iay. 231 East Clapler
street, ft
McNeil was pleading that he was driv
ing Blowly when Slaglntrate Watson broke
In In a volco of biting sarcasm;
"United States' mall drivers never go
slowly. They fly along our public thorough
fares without the slightest regard for the
safety of citizens and little children. They
hum around corners and take chance in
the thick of trafnc aa If they,had a special
permit from Washington to gamble with
the lives of the cltUepa of the Republic,
AnnOOANCUPP UNIFpuM
'Because they wear a uniform and have
the words 'United States Mall' emblazoned
on the sides of the truck, they.thlnk they
are 'governmental divlne-rlght speeders.' '
"As a matter of fact 'these men have hp
'more right to Ignore the speed laws tlian
anybody else, Investigation has established
that the PostoDlce Department gives them
no authority to play with the lives of little
children and others who use (he streets,
"I have already had (twenty cases n
whifch persons have been Injured bj these
reckless United States mall drivers, and, I
want to Issue notice right now that 'I am
through extending; leniency to th,oae mea
FRENCH WARSHIP
LOST; 730 DROWN
Battleship Suffren, 12,750
Tons, Given Up as Sunk
by Admiralty
MISSING SINCE NOV. 24
PA HIS, Dec. 8.
The French battleship Suffren Is oRlclally
classified as lost lu a statement Issued by
the Minister of Marine today.
Apparently all hands were lost. The
vessel left GlbraltaV for L'Orlent, a fortified
seaport at the mouth of the Illver Scorff, In
Ilrlttany, on November !4 and has not been
heard of since.
The Suffren was an elghteen-knot battle
ship of 13,750 tons, and curried 730 mep,
according to best available. Information
She had a waterllno length of 110 feet, and
parried the following armament: Pour
12-Inch guns, ten 6.4-Inch guns, eight 4-
Inch guns, twenty-two 3-pounder rapid
Krers, four torpedo tubes,'
rhe Suffren was' authorized In July,
IS!), and cost 16,000,000,
LONDON Dec 8, The Anchor llner-
Caledonla Is believed sunk, Lloyd's an
nounced today. The Caledonia Is a steel
steamship of 9225 "tons, wllh British reg
istry arid Glasgow her home port, "She wa
built n' 1901 and is 600 feet In length.
MRS. MARY W- HARKNESS
DIES AFPER OPERATION
WIFE-LOVE WINS
ERRANT AVIATOR
Harvey W. Kays Abjures
Habits and Seeks His
Home Again
GUARDS AT BODY OF JOHN D. ARCHBOLD
TAKIIVTOWN, N. Y., Dec. 8. Two.nrmed guards kept vigil today at tho vault
In Sleepy Hollow Cemotery where Ilea the body of John D. Archbold, Into Stundard
Oil mognntc- A continual'RUMrd will bo kept over th,e rcmiilnslintil they nro placed
In tho crypt.
WANTS TO MAKE GOOD
9:03 a.m.
Continued on l'aze Too. Column "),
i i ',n i i I, I. i
REPRESENTATIVE TRIBBLE DEAD
Georgia Congressman Succumbs to
.Stroke of- Apoplexy
WASHINaTO.N. Dec. 8. IlepresentatfVe
Samuel J. Trlbble, who repreaented the
Eighth Georgia District for three terms,
died today at a local hospital.
He was atrlckea with apoplexy in his
office on the opening day of Congrs.
neDrenttte fribble's home was In
(Athena, ua.
Widow of .Standard Oil Magnate Was
Heir to ?12,OQO,000 in Her
Husband's .Will
NEW YonK,' Dec. 8. Mrs. Mary Warden
Harlineu, widow of Charles W. Uorkneaa,
Standard Uli magnate, wnosa estate was
appraUed yeaUrday at 510.319.01, died
today at Hhe Presbyterian Hospital, where
she had undergone an operation.
Under the terms of her Husband's will,
Mrs- Harkneaa Inherited property valued
at I12,?31.ei9. This Included the Hark
ness home at 2 Bast Fifty-fourth street.
At .the elites of the Harkneaa estate. 26
roadway, the only information obtainable
was 'that Mra. Harkneaa came In from ber
country home At Madison, N. J., some time
early this week and went to the Presby
terian Hospital to have an operation per
formed. She did not communicate, to any
oos in the office the nature of her nines,
and ber employes were shocksd today to
learn oi ner deatb,
I.ave for hla wlfo nnd home has led
Harvey Wilbur Kays, the aviator who dis
appeared five weeks ago, to send a message
back to his wife, after he had apparently
abandoned her for another woman.
Tho first word that has been heard from
the missing airman came last night, when
Knys called his wife over the long-dlstanco
telephone from Newark, N. J., and pro
tested his love far her, saying that reports
that he wa unfaithful were not true.
The telephone belt In tho Kays home, at
Slti 'llaltlmore avenue, rang Insistently
last night, shortly after Mrs. Kays and
Daron Ualdeman von Flgyelmlssy, ICaya's
(ormer partner In aviation exhibitions, had
eaten aupper. Von Flgyelmlssy answered
the call and summoned Mra. Kays,
"Is that you, Florence?" camo Kays's
voice, the first time sho had heard it plnce
his .disappearance.
"Yes," responded Mrs. Kaye, recognizing
the voice, but saying nothing, mentally re
flecting on what she had heard that he
had left her'to support herself and their
four children for another woman and' for
the love of the drugs that had made him
an addict.
"This hi Harvey," came the voice. "I
am at Newark."
"Yea. I recognize your voice," replied
Mrs. Kaya. "It sound like old times."
Her voice wa matter-of-fact.
"How are the children?" pursued the
husband, ps if he had left on a common
place trip. Instead of being a man sought
by the police for desertion and alleged
theft of an airplane, the property of the
baron-avlator. He asked after each one
BpeelAcally Olleeta. atn years old;
Vera), five years old ; Zelda, two years old,
and Kerna, two months old.
"They are all very well," replied Mrs.
Kays. Sh waited.
Then came the husband's story.
"J had to leave you, Florence," he said.
"With you knowing what you did about me.
I couldn't live with you. It was like liv
ing In a vault."
What he referred to was tho drujr habit,
whiqh, u la said, he learned while In the
company -of eJssa Olorgano, a manicurist,
of near Eleventh and Walnut streets, who
disappeared at the same time Kay did.
t'l wanted to mako good." he continued,
i felt like I had gone to hell. It was up
to me to get away and show what vun in
me. J should have let you know tnnntr I
MADISON SQUARE GARDEN SOLD AT AUCTION
NEW YOHK. Dec. 8. Madison Square Garden, farnoun aa tho scene of many
important public mcetliiBs und uthletlc exhibitions wua sold under the nuctloneor'a
hammer today for J2.000.000. Tho structure was bought In by tho New York Life
Insurance Company, whoso roprescnlntlvo, Kdward Y Dovlln, wns tho only bidder.
CHILD SCALDED BY COFFEE DIES IN HOSPITAL
A cup of hot cofrco which accldcntly wpllled on Wnyno Confrrovc, flftoon-month-old
child, 7B13 Ucrmantown nvenuo, caused IiIr death In tho Chestnut Hill
Hospital todny. It was whllo tho family was at breakfnHt thnt tho nccldent occurred.
ASQUITH DECLINES OFFER OF EARLDOM
LONDON. Dec. 8. KliiB CleorRo Imh offered nn earldom and tho Order of tho
Garter lo former Premier Aaqulth. ncconlliiR to tho Chronicle. It l.i understood thnt
Mr. Asquith declined to accept thorn.
MAKE U. S. SUPPLIES IN PRISONS, PROBERS SAY
WASHINGTON, Dec. 8. Itccommendntlon to CorutreHH thnt tho Kederal prisons
nt Atlanta nnd Leavenworth bo utilized for tho manufacture of supplies for tho
Government was mado today by the special commission appointed for this purposo
nt tho last session. Tho commlsBlon recommended that a textllo mill and a mall
sack factory bo built at Atlanta.'
DU PONT SUBSIDIARY GIVES BON.US TO 2000 MEN
WILMINGTON, Del., Dec. 8. A bonus on annual salaries, reprcsontlnir n
monthly payroll Increase of about $32,000, was nnnounced today by the Arlington
Company, n subsidiary of the tin Pont de Nemours Company. About 2000 employes
aro affected.
$1,905,231 HARKNESS INHERITANCE TAX
NEW YOUK, Dec. 8. New York Stoto will receive the record sum of 11,905,234
as the Inherltunco tax on the New York estate of tho Jato Stondurd Oil magnate,
Charles W. Harkncss, according to papers on file In the Surrogate's Court hero
toddy. The valuation of tho Harkness estate is put at 149,319,601, The Harkness
oil stockholding were second only to those of the Into John D, Archbold.
COMMISSION TO DISCUSS COAL TRANSPORTATION
Coal transportation by Inland waterways will be the principal tonlo disouH
today at the hearing to bo conducted by the State Coal Commissioners In tho City
Hull. Congressman J. Hampton Moore, president of the Deeper Waterways Asso
ciation, will furnish statistics bearing on coal transportation by canal.
COMPENSATION BOARD ADJUSTS 49,300 CASES
Ileports at a meeting' of tho Workmen's Compensation Hoard at Its headquar
lera In the North American Building this afternoon showed that 49,300 accident
cases were settled since tho board's establishment last January without dispute
between employer and employe. There were 1587 coses contested. From January
1 to December I 12.640,850 wns paid out for disabilities and deaths. Amounts
awarded during November totaled $377,847.
URGES MORE BARRACKS FOR LEAGUE ISLAND
The establishment of n, large marine corps post on the east coast and more
buildings at tne rnuaueipnia wavy xara ror oait(onal defense companies were
recommended today In the annual report of the marine corps at Washington. The
commandant, Major General Oeorge Harnett, declared that the establishment of the
proposed post us a training station for expeditionary forces was the paramount
need of' the corps. He recommended a site on the Chesapeake Day and also the
construction of a portion of tho buildings for quartering the west coaat expedi
tionary force on the site to be purchased near San Diego, Cal.
GIVES $100,000 TO PRESBYTERIAN PASTORS' FUND
An anonymous gift of $100,000 has been received by the Ministerial Jteliet
and Sustentatlon Fund of the Presbyterian Church, according to Pr. "William Hiram
Foulkes, general secretary, who has returned, from New York. "Our generous
friend," said Doctor Foulkes. "has authorized roe to quota him as saying, "I cannot
help saying that It seems to me tbat thu la a splendid time for the rich people pf
the Presbyterian Church to make special contributions to this cause.'"
Lyndon D. Wood nnd the Pension Mutual
Ilfo Insurance Company, of which he Is
president, ngnln take the center of the stag
In the Statewide Insurance renndat. Tem
porarily the local Issue of tho pollco In
surance scandal eclipsed Interest In the
approaching court hearing of tho Tension
Life. '
A dispatch from ltarrlsburg today quotes
Insurance Commissioner O'Nell as being
absolutely certain of making out a success
ful caso for the State when "It prosecutes
the receivership Issue ngolnst Mr. Wood's
company on December 18,
Mr. O'Nell went to Pittsburgh today to
gather more evidence against the company, .
which has Its homo offices thore. Before tn
left llarrlshurg ho had n Idng conference
with Attorney Oencrnl Drown, Deputy at
torney Onera) Sargent nnd others, who will .
represent tho State at the hearing a week
from Monday. i
O'NEIL CONFIDENT
It was nfter this conference that ho said
It was absolutely certain n receiver would
bo appointed for tho Pension company, lie
continued:
. We will- hnvo evidence enough and
witnesses enough present nt the Pen
sion Mutual hearing to make perfectly
clear to tho courts that Lyndon IX
Wood nnd others associated In the
management of the company nro unfit
for the trust Imposed In them by the
men nnd women who hold policies In
tho company. The Attorney General
now hnn most of the records of the
office In tho case nnd Is proceeding
along lines that In all likelihood will
result in criminal proceedings after the
Stnto has taken over tho affairs of the
company and In able to get to the bpt- .
torn of all Its manifold Intricacies and'. '
transactions. ' ,
Mr. O'Nell said thero waa no truthso
far lis he knows. In n ri-nort that inii
reached his office that fraternal nnd muiutil ,.
Insurance managers In tho Stnto aro pre
paring lo oppose the plan fpr uniform and
ndequata tnmirnnca protection IcRlslntlon
which he will recommend to the next Legist
Inture. Up to the present, not one IntlhW
ton of such a move has reached him ,ff?m
any Insurance source, although In every .
session of the. Legislature for the last'
twenty years secret society and mutual In- t
surance company heads have been opposed
to bdns placed under tho same stringent
regulations bh npp,!y to tho old-line com
panies. -The
Commissioner said he expected to
be nslied for a conference on the sub-
Ject qf his reform program during the
early part of the legislative session, and
that ho would be pleased to discuss pro
posed legislation with any of the Insurance
people who may be Interested. Mr. O'Neill
said he would Insist upon the enactment
of Inws and amendments which will give
the people of the State udequata protection
nnd maka a Ilfo Insurance policy In Penn
sylvania ns sound ns a Clovernment bond.
COP SEEKS SUIT
An echo of tho Police Beneficiary Asso
ciation Investigation planned by Council
man 1. W. Thompson was heard today,
when Policeman John Simpson, of the Sec
ond nnd Christian streets station and liv
ing at 2021 Christian street, called on Mr.
Wood In the Consolidated Investment Com
pany offices, Finance Building.
Tho policeman wanted to know whether
Wood was going to bring his promised
suits. "You bring them or I will," he said,
"for I want this thing Investigated In cqurt
If nowhere else."
Mr. Wood told Policeman Simpson that
two suits surely would be brouirht. ons
against the association to recover $56,003
and one to cancel the existing contract.
Policeman Simpson told reporters he felt
sure everything was not right, and said
he had brought It to the attention of the
vice Orand Jury last July, but nothing
came of It. He has been on the police force
twenty-three years and has the reputation
of being the most-transferred policeman In
Philadelphia.
DEATH THREAT NOTE
IN CAMDEN FACTORY
Watchman Finds Missive, nnd, Fearing
Attack, Phones Cops, Who Can't
Discover Sender
Whether or not witches', ghosts, gnomes,
hobgoblins or Jabberwocks frolic at night
within the American Pretsel Company's
plant In pear street below lladdon avenue.
In Camden. Is a question that Is glvlnj tb
Camden pulloe much concern today.
Oeorgo Stlllwell, 138s Pear street, em.
plpyed as night watchman in the pldoe,
growing hungry last midnight with a. Tin.
sire that pretieU could not satisfy, went;
home for luncheon. IJefore he went he
closed all the doors and windows of the
pretzel works and locked them. When ha
returned, after an hour away, he found a
piece of white papr on hU desk, on which
was written: "You are doomed to die at
J: JO a, in."
Mystified and frightened, Stillweli called
the police. He had but thirty minutes ta
live, according to the note. DUetlve
Mellock and Cunningham answered iis call
and Wa la the pr.etzel factory, closer t$ HtUl
well. while he. awaited the hour of death.
The detectives were still waiting at I ,
o'clock this morning when their shift tailed
ii nd Sergeant Snow and petective Purdy
relieved them. The Sergeant mad Ptirdi. ,
waited until t o'clock this morning, wilm
they accompanied StlUurcll horn. Tiwy m
still vjndtript where ttio snyfterlotitt c44,
Ot diHitb. ?a.ni8 from.
Ni y ?
&imMk&AHlr
1 " I'm i N (l1 i i in nun n ' in ii-in. -ii mm j j Piii n-p 1 tl tl B i i in j ii ii' i i is hi hit, , ,n - in mi Mini i i jj i ! . swue inm n i ,hm hi." h nr ir-nrmrn-.i wmn-m-u
Beyond $M Great Qlijfta rComirawveiiii Ldor
-" -T'ftf ffiWVlslBsWlllsWsH
Jfi- '4-t - ','.fJmMJBBsSs.tiMLHsssssiisslWssssB
r-I-:;::;'
rOsB,
SV
