? - . ..
\
P WEATHER. ^5^/ A ^ _ - . [I
Increasing cloudiness, followed by I ? A f * \ . w f ^B M^_J( "FfOttl P^fff fo Hotltt
rain late tonight or tomorrow; warmer ^FX^B B>^^k B^fl B ^h_ j^k /^ A J tl^BIl ???
moderate soutft B B , . B ^B B ^^B B^W ^^^B B %' BK^B Te?^B' II# ?,.
I I .1 11^ 417 111^ | I I 11 IT %B I jfTT fl Ct^jji/ ^faw<*? w<*g"
ending p.m.: to- V B B B^ B H B^ B B B B B / B B B Bi H B CSS^?
day; lowest. 40 a.m. today. y ^B B B e B B B B B B ^ B ^L B B
on page ^mf '
~ ? IT. _ V y ^ v y A^f f X "~ '"? Wot ClKttadM, Heath ef November.
CLOSING NEW YORK STOCKS PAGE 23. till. Dally Average. 7E&S7I Saaday, rs.yfrr.
x:? oo n9(i _ WASHINGTON, D. C^ FRIDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1916.-TWENTY-EIGHT PAGES. , . ONE CENtT*
XI v. ?
U.OVO GEORGE HAS
NEARLY COMPLETED
I CABINET SELECTIONS
Eminent Men Will Get Posts in
the British Government.
. NEW PREMIER SEES KING
AND KISSES HIS HAND |
Early Solution of Irish Problem Not I
Unlikely?Asquith Declines
Earldom and High Order.
By th<? Associated Press.
, " LONDON, December S.?That Davit!
Lloyd George has virtually succeeded
in forming: a cabinet is indicated in the
following: announcement in the Court
1 Circular:
, "The Right Honorable David Lloyd
George had an audience of the king
this evening fThursday) and accepted
his majesty's offer of the post of prime
minister and first lord of the treasury
and kissed his hand upon his appointment."
The Manchester Guardian says that
the report that Premier Lloyd George
will atempt an immediate solution of
the Irish question by means of an imperial
conference is not unlikely.
According to the Chronicle, King
George yesterday wrote to Former '
Premier Asquith offering him an earldom
and the Order of the Garter. It is
understood that Mr. Asquith asked permission
to decline both honors.
At a meeting of liberals today it was
stated that A. J. Balfour would be for- *
eign secretary in the new cabinet and j
that Lord Robert Cecil would remain ,
parliamentary under secretary for for- ,
eign affairs. .
Will Support Government.
The Reform Club today adopted a i
resolution expressing confidence in Mr. j
Asquith. and also the determination ,
of the organization to support the new
government in wnatevcr steps it may ;
take to prosecute the war vigorously. ,
The Daily Mail, which for obvious ,
reasons may be supposed to have inside
information, says Mr. Lloyd George i
has nearly completed his government, *
^ which will contain some eminent busi
ness men who are not politicians, notably
Sir Albert Henry Stanley, managing
direetor of the Metropolitan dis- {
trict. Centra! London and other street
railways, who. the Daily Mail asserts,
will almost certainly be made president
of the board of trade.
Labor Representation.
Andrew Bonar Law, according to the
Daily Mail, is expected to be the chancellor
of the exchequer, and the Earl
of Derby, war minister. It adds that
a ministry of labor is to be established.
and that one of the labor repreaentatives
will be minister of labor.
Arthur Henderson and the Rt. Hon.
George Nicoll Barnes or John Hodge
are expected to be among the labor
members of the government.
Dr. Christopher Addison, under secretary
of munitions, the Daily Mail asserts.
is likely to be appointed minister
of munitions, and S. H. Lever, an accountant
who reduced the cost of shells,
will have a post in the ministry.
The Daily Mail denies that Lord Robert
Cecil and Austen Chamberlain are
antagonistic to Mr. Lloyd George. The
newspaper says both of them visited
Mr. Lloyd George Thursday, as also did j
Ciiry/in (if It Viae nnth.
ing to say regarding the portfolio of j
foreign minister.
"The fears that have been expressed J v
that Col. Winston Spencer Churchill j r
will be a member of the new adminis- j
tration are unfounded" is a noteworthy
statement in the Daily Mail. "He will t
k not be included in it," the newspaper, t
adds. e
Success With Laborites. a
The political writers in the London 1
^ morning papers generally emphasize the n
Importance of Mr. Lloyd George's suecess
with the laborites. It is said* in
certain papers that some concessions I a
were demanded as part of the price of 11
adhesion, and that the laborites required
government control of mines j;
and shipping during the war and that fJ
it should take possession of all vacant 1
land for food production.
Tne statements of the political cor- . I
Respondents further show that Mr. Jr
Lloyd George was prepared to adopt a i
sweeping measure of state control, em- ' i
bracing all industries arid means of j >
transportation on land and sea, that the j\
nation's man power could be directed j r
the maintenance of necessary export :
trade, the fullest development of food a
cultivation by state organization and I
*h?- control of agricultural operations. t
The conference, it is said, pressed the 1
premier with the questions "conscrip- |
tion of labor and the conscription of i
wealth." hih! it is understood that he '
answered assuring tlie conference that i
ids policy would be in the direction of |
iemulating the work of the whole man- j
r hood of the country so that no class would j
le- abl*- to complain of its treatment. j
A scheme of control of investments j
and savings on lines described as being ! 1
' those applied to certain classes of ; ,
American securities was, it is added, j
foreshadowed by Mr. Lloyd George. the !
effect being to place the realized
wealth of the country at the government's
disposal.
It is further stated that there will
be a large extension of the tax on war
profits, all profits being calculated on '
an average of three years prior to the
war. all profits in excess of this being
taken by the state. [
Attitude of Irish Party.
One of the most interesting matters still
to be decided is the attitude of the Irish
party. Mr. Redmond now has perhaps
the greatest opportunity he ever had to
secure a settlement of the home rule
question. The position of the new cabinet
will be none so secure in the house
of commons as to be able to disregard
the Irish vote; hence, the nationalists will
have an opportunity to bargain, of which
they are likely to take full advantage.
Speaking generally, the situation is regarded
with greater hopefulness, and it
is believed that the crisis will be surmounted
without the need or fear of a
general election, which the country would
regard as a great disaster -in the midst of
war. when so many electors are serving
In the field. As to the effect of the crisis
on the war. it is pointed out that Germany
suffered a much worse crisis in the
i disappearance of Admiral von Tirpitz and
| M?n Kalkenhayti from their re spec
tive posts without any adverse influence
on Germany's military operations, and
altogether there is a disposition to give
the new administration a fair chance.
Wants Suffrage Cause
Considered in Forming
New British Cabinet
LONDON, December 8.? Mrs. Kmmeline
Pankhurst, the militant suffragette,
has seen some of Mr. Lloyd
George's chief supporters, as she does
not desire a reconstruction of the cabinet
achieved without the cause of
woman being taken into account.
The Asquith ministry passed through
a trying ordeal, while the militant suffragette
campaign was at its height,
but a truce has been declared on militant
methods during the war. The
suffragettes foresee that the new cabinet
may survive the war and have
much to do in shaping the future situation
of women. It is recalled that
Mr. Lloyd George was a conspicuous
figure at the review of the monster
women's demonstration early in the war.
IMANYflFFFIK
W la I II V If II V I VI I Ik. I IU
SERVICESTOGREECE
King Constantine's Government
Must War on Entente,
However, Is Report.
BLOCKADE DUE TODAY
By thp Associated Press.
IX)NDOX, December 8, 2 p.m.?A dispatch
from Switzerland as forwarded
from Rome to the Wireless Press says
Germany and Austria have offered their
services to Greece in opening land communications
if Greece declares war on the
entente.
Blockade Begins Today.
ATHENS. Thursday, December T. via
London, December 8.?The blockade of
Greece begins officially at 8 o'clock tomorrow
(Friday) morning. The members
of the Birtish naval mission have been
ordered to embark on the Greek transatlantic
liner King Constant ine.
In response to the demand of the entente
yesterday for an explanation of the movements
of Greek troops the government
has explained that these movements have
ceased.
The Russian, Italian, French and British
ministers called in a body at the foreign
office and demanded an explanation !
of the Greek military activity. ]
The French commander. Gen. Sarrail.
is quoted as saying that he prefers Greece 1
openly hostile to an unsettled situation. }
See No Settlement. 1
Th? entente allied diplomats, although
hey have received no instructions as j
ret. see no prospect of an arrange- ;
aent by the Greek government, and it ! r
s believed that they will demand at i ,
east the re-establishment of allied con- ! J
:rol of the i^olice. Dosts and teleeranhs. 1 (
ailways, ports, customs and passports. \
The text of the Greek reply to the ! j
written and verbal protests of the <
American. Dutch and Spanish ministers, i 1
nade "on humanitarian grounds" | .
igainst the ill treatment of Venizelist j '
prisoners taken during- the attempt at ; '
i revolution on Friday and Saturday, j *
las been made public. After thanking i
he neutral ministers for their senti- [
nents of friendship for Greece which |
nspired the representations in ques- ;
.ion, the reply says: j 1
"The royal government from the first ! 1
lay had in view only the re-establish- i (
nent and maintenance of order in the i
rouble on Friday and Saturday caused"^ '
>y revolutionary elements. This was i 1
lone completely with as little damage (
is possible.
<
Exasperation Aroused. t
"If contrary to the orders given there ; 1
was some excess of tension and indig- j ]
lation on the part of the population ! i
nd troops, who saw in a moment so j ]
ragic for the fatherland agitators j <
aking advantage of the unhaoov i
vents of that clay to take up arms j
gainst the country and try and over- !
hrow the established government, this 1 f
nust be taken into consideration. This ;
xasperation was particularly aroused j
y the bombardment of the royal palace i
,nd the neighborhood thereof in this,
n open city, at the very moment when
n armistice having been concluded, '
t was hoped peace would finally reign. ;
"Nevertheless, the royal government
s decided to punish every person guilty J
if committing illegal acts and exceedng
instructions, and a severe investi- J
nation will be begun to this end so
oon as acts of such nature are brought
o the attention of the royal governnerit.
"In this connection the foreign minster
considers it hi.r duty to recail to
'our attention that by his note of Noember
2.S he warned the neutral
towers of the tragic position in which j
he Greek nation was placed as a re- !
mlt of measures taken against Greece, j
ind of the consequences which the j
French admiral's insistence upon ob- j
aining Greek war material might well ; *
?ave." i
I
FRENCH CLAIM SUCCESS, j,
BUT GERMANS DENY IT
I'AIUS. December 8.?The Germans!
ast riight were driven out of the ,
trenches which they had (raptured on !
the ejstern side of hill 304, on the'
Verdun front, it is announced officially. !
BKRLIN', December 8, by wireless to'
Sayville.?.An attack was made by j
French troops yesterday on the Vet - ;
rlun front, in an effort to recapture !
trenches taken by the Germans on hill!
304. The failure of this attack is an- i
nounced in today's communication front
army headquarters.
OFFICE IS SELF-SUSTAIN III G.
Annual Report of Commissioner of
Patents Is Made.
Review of the statistics cpmposing the
annual report of Thomas Kwfng. commissioner
of iwtents. shows that the office
is self-sustaining. , The receipts were
$2,331.0304*. while the expenditures were
$2,051,606.79. There was a decrease in
the expenditures during the period covered
by the report as compared with
1915, and an increase of receipts. The
figures for 1915 are: Receipts, $2,270,937.68,
and the expenditures. $2,087,581.26.
?n increase in the volqme of work also
is shown, there being 53,477 letters patent.
design patents, reissue patents, trade
tnarks, labels and prints issued in 1916
as compared with S^^^n 1915.
D, C. SALARY RAISE
ON SCIENTIFIC PLAN
Sliding Scale Does Not Apply
to Teachers, Policemen
and Firemen.
i
IS BEFORE SUBCOMMITTEE
A scientific plan for a horizontal increase
for District of Columbia employes
was under consideration today
by the "subcommittee of. the House appropriations
committee in charge of the
District bill; a plea for a liberal amendment
of the civil service law to allow
government clerks the right of appeal
in cases where dismissal threatens, and
a definite proposal to put into the next
postal appropriations bill a horizontal
increase for 40,000 post office employes
in the classes from $800 to $1,200 inclusive.
These are the definite legislative proposals
under consideration at the Capitol
today. In the case of the District
bill the Commissioners have presented
proposed legislation providing for the
horizontal increase, in what Commissioner
Brownlow termed "the most
scientifically arranged general increase
plan yet seen."
The bill was drawn at the District
building, and The Star presents herewith
a complete copy of the important
section:
"That from and after June 30, 1917,
the compensation of all employes of
the government of the District of Columbia
shall be increased as follows:
Twenty per cent increase in the salary
or compensation of all employes receiving
less than $1,000 per annum, or its
equivalent on a monthly or per diem
basis; 15 per cent increase in the salary
or compensation of all employes receiving
$1,000 or more per annum, and less J
than $1,500 per annum, or its equivalent
on a monthly or per diem basis; 10 per J
cent increase in the salary or compen- |
sation or all employes receiving *x,uvu
or more, and less than $2,000 per annum,
or its equivalent on a monthly or
per diem basis; 5 per cent increase in
the salary or compensation of all employes
receiving $2,000 per annum or
more. Provided, that employes receiving
subsistence and quarters in addition
to their compensation shall be entitled
to an increase of but 5 per cent
in their salary or compensation; provided
further, that employes shall not
be paid more than the union scale of
wages of the trade or occupation to
which they belong prevailing in the
District of Columbia."
Three Departments Not Included.
This proposal does not apply to the
public schools, nor police and fire departments.
Accompanying the bill, as laid before
the subcommittee, were tables showing
the result of this proposed enactment
in the case of each individual. About
1,300 employes on the annual and
>er diem and institutional rolls would
>e affected.
In the case of the post office employes,
rhomas F. Flaherty, representing the
National Federation of Post Office
'lerks, told members of the post office '
committee today he was prepared to '
jive substantiation to the claims of i
10,000 postal employes that they should !
xe given a substantial promotion. The !
imnlnv<.s b#* rf-iirpspntf-tl todav are in i
:he class which enters at $800 and re- j
eive automatic promotion to $1,100,1
ift^r which 75 per cent go to $1,200. '
rhey asked today to be placed on a
jasic or entrance salary of $000, with
iutomatic increases to $1,500.
Urge Clerks' Court of Appeals.
Representative Byrns, chairman of |
he subcommittee in charge of the!
egislative appropriation bill, was asked j
oday to consider the importance of a i
egislative rider in his bill, providing J
'or a "clerks* court of appeals," in which '
derks having charges against them j
ould argue their case. Mr. Byrns was i
old that at present clerks may be dis- j
nissed from the service without a
hance to present their side of the case, i
Representative Byrns* position on thisj
natter has riot been stated by him pub- ,
icly, but Herks who saw him said they !
ire hopeful the legislative bill will!
arry the "rider."
Favor More Pay for U. S. Clerks. I
That the membership of the associa- 1
Jon heartily indorses the movement to !
ncrease the earnings of all governnent
employes and that Congress be
espectfully urged to pass a law forthwith
increasing the earnings of the
government employes is the gist of a
-esolution adopted at a special meeting
>f th?- Capitol Retail (Jrocers' Protec
live Association held recently.
A committee was appointed to take
ilie matter up with other associations
?f the i>istrict to organize a concerted '
novement to advance this cause. The
ommittee is composed of Simon Cor:lon,
president of the association; John 1
Wolf. S. Peak, S. Brown, J. Siegel, S. 1.
,'ohen. K. Cooper, A. Goldstein, A. Moslow,
N. Cafritz and Louis Cohen.
MR. PETERS IS TO RESIGN.
Assistant Treasury Secretary to
Leave Post After March 4.
Andrew -J. Peters, assistant secretary,
uf the Treasury in charge of customs, j
has told friends he will resign after j
March 4. to attend to persona! affairs!
in Massachusetts.
Renewed reports that Secretaries;
McAdoo and Houston and Attorney General
Gregory planned to resign from j
the cabinet were met at the White J
House with the statement that they
had given no indication of any such
intention. Friends of the Attorney
General, however, believe he will resign
and later be placed on the federal
bench.
The report of Mr. McAdoo's resignation
is generally regarded as true.
WILL TBY TC BESCUE HIS MEN.
Sir Ernest Shackleton to Sail for
Antarctic December 16.
LONDON. December 8, 6:55 a.m.?Sir
Ernest Shackleton will sail from Dunedin.
New Zealand, for Ross sea December
16, to rescue the members of his Antarctic
expedition marooned there, according
to a Reuters dispatch from
Wellington. The explorer will take hia
auxiliary ship, the Aurpra.
The ten men whose rescue Sir Ernest
will attempt are Capt. Mackintosh and
tiiue members of the crew of the
Aurora, who were marooned In the
neighborhood of the Ross barrier when
the ship broke away In a blizzard twentyone
months ago. They had only a scanty
supply of provisions at that time, and
nothing has been heard fiom them since.
EDCMPU U/ADOUIDIHOT 1
I IvlmUII VTMIiOl III LUOI
WITH ALL ON BOARD
Suffren, Which Left Port November
24, Hai Not Been I
Heard From.
B.r the Associated Pr*?*.
PARIS, December 8, 2 p.m.?The battleship
Suffren, which left port on November
24, has not been heart! from "
since, and the minister of marine considers
the vessel lost with all on board.
The Suffren sailed for J'Orlent, a French f
naval station in Britanny.
The French battleship Suffren dis- i
placed ' 2.730 tons. Her normal com- j
plement was 730 men. She was 410
i<et long and To feet of beam, ami was :
laid down in 1800. She was armed with
four twelve-inch, ten 6.4-inch and eight J
four-inch guns. twenty-two three-'
I-a st year the Suffren took part in the j
bombardment of the Turkish forts at;'
the Dardanelles. She entered the straits is
to attack Turkish batteries, and, ac- ( ,
cording; to an official Turkish an- i *
nouncement, was damaged seriously j <
and withdrew In flames. She was sent j
back to Toulon for repairs. i f
HOLIDAYS FOR EMPLOYES Ij
OF TREASURY DEPARTMENT h
Officials, clerks and employes of tlie i (
Treasury Department whose services j s
can be spared will have holiday from |
noon Saturday, December 23, until the |
usual hour of work on the following i
Tuesday morning. They will enjoy the <
same privilege from noon Saturday, De- I
cember 20, until the following Tuesday.!
Acting Secretary Byron It. Newton to- ;
day declared these holidays. j ^
The rule does not apply to the em- !
ployes of the bureau of engraving and *
printing and the divisions of issue of!
the treasurer's office and of loan and ! 1
currency. They will be excused the ! '
full days, December 25, Christmas, and 1
January 1, New Year day. in lieu of
the two half days December 23 and 30 J
they will be granted a full-day holiday ,
on the Saturday before Christmas. J
These employes will perform a full 1
service on December 30. the day before j;
New Year. J
GREEK KING'S HEALTH
IS CAUSING ANXIETY!
: f
i i
PAHiS. December 8.?The health of L
King Constantine is again causing j j
anxiety, according to neAs from Get- J t
man sources, says a Zurich dispatch to j t
the Matin. The old wound in the king's i \
side continues to suppurate, the (lis- J l
patch says, and has kept constantly J <
open, 'the king's condition is said to J t
be very weak. ! s
I
GERMANY TO GET FOOD. j!
i
Agreement Reached With Holland, !
Who Also Is to Supply England. '
LONDON. December 8.?An Amsterdam
dispatch to the Times says that
the Berlin Vossische Zeitung announces
that an agreement has been reached
between Holland and Germany regard- *
Ing the exportation of foodstuffs iddn- c
tical to that existing between Holland
and England. The Amsterdam corre- spondent
of the Vossische Zeitung says *
that It is really, if not technically, an 1
agreement between Germany and Eng- j
land whereby both may obtain food }
from Holland. I
The Times correspondent Interprets i
this as meaning that Dutch ships carrying
food to England will not be mo- J
tested by German submarines or seized f
by oestroyers. He adds: "It is part of (
a wide agreement," and also says that 1
the understanding with Holland pro- i
vides for the payment for foodstuffs by i
Germantreasury notes and bank asr t
iwmits. ^ i
Jf
. * 7 ,
WESTERN FREIGHT
IS UNDER EMBARGO
Railroads Will Not Accept
Shipments for Points East
of Pittsburgh.
FERMINALS ARE CONGESTED
?y tin* Associated Press.
CHICAGO. December 8.?Kinbargo orI'rs,
which practically bar the west
"rom shipment of commodities for extort
from Atlantic ports or for eastern
consumption, went into effect on the
Pennsylvania lines and the Krie rail oad
east of Chicago today.
Two other railroads, the New York
'entral lines and the Wabash, ordered
mbargoes today. The \Yal ash placed
m embargo on grain shipments and the
Cew York /Central on all foodstuffs except
perishables and livestock.
The orders bar virtually every eomnodity,
tne usual exceptions being
nade. however, for perishable freight
n tiansit and for I'nited States government
shipments. U. C. Snyder, assistant
general freight agent of the
Erie, exp'ained that the order of his
oad "even applies to livestock to the
;xtent that we no longer accept liveitock
from connecting lines."
No Limit on Duration.
No limit is set on the duration of the
imbargo, which is attributed to the
ongcstion of leaded freight cars in the
rards on the Atlantic seaboard.
Notice of the embargo was served on
he connecting lines by the two roads
;ome time ago. The Pennsylvania orler
forbids agents to accept freight
'roin connecting lines which is desined
for points east of Pittsburgh. The
Erie order h.-.es Marion, Ohio, as the
arthest east point of destination.
Staple foodstuffs which do not require
;old storage are forbidden by the ernlargo
from going east of the Pittsburghla
ri on lines. This would apply to poatoes,
tlour, beel sugar and canned
roods. Such commodities as wheat, corn,
luilding materials and manufacturing aricles
are also brought under the ban of
he embargo oruers.
Congestion at Terminals.
Loral railroad officials asserted that
i equently cars of goods for export have
>een shipped without arrangements beng
made for bottoms to carry their
oads to Europe and that as a result the
angle of freight ears has grown so great
.hat eastern 1 peals have found it difficult
o carry on their necessary business. Eforts
of the roads, it was asserted, to car y
out the recent oiders of the interstate
lonimerce commission to return the cars
o the western lines, have brought the
situation to a crisis.
Officials of other roads operating east
rom Chicago early today did not 00111nent
on current rumors that other lines
ntended issuing similar orders.
50,000 MORE BELGIANS
ARE SENT !NT0 GERMANY
LONDON, December 8.?A dispatch to
he Exchange Telegraph from Amsterlam
says:
"Deportations from northern France
iave been resumed. Sixty thousand aleged
unemployed persons from Lille,
rtoubaix, Turcoing and Cambrai passed
hrough Liege in the last six days in
ong trains composed of cattle carta
>ound for Dueseldorf, Reimscheid and
Sssen. Deportations also have begun
n Namur province, Belgium."
AMSTERDAM, via London, December
L?Cardinal Mercier, primate of Belfhmr,
is confined to his palace by the
Serbian authorities, according to the
rontier correspondent of the Telegraaf,
vho says he hears this on good aathorty.
The reason given is the action
aken by the cardinal against the de*
jortation of Belgians. f
4
- c
I
LINER CALEDONIASUNK,
IS BELIEF IN LONDON
Eight Other Vessels of Various Nationalities
A3so Reported to Have
Been Destroyed.
Hv tli*? Associated Pre**.
LONDON, December 8, 4:30 p.m.?The
Anchor line steamship Caledonia, of
I 9,223 tons gross, is believed to have
! been sunk, says an announcement made
today at JJoyds shipping agency.
J-loyds shipping agency announces
that the Belgian steamer Kelser and
the Norwegian steamer Meteor have
been reported sunk and their crews
la nded.
The Danish steamer Halfdan, 1,307
| luns, xne i>orwcKian sieamer iu 11a ana
! the Danish schooner Marie have been
j sunk by submarines. The crews were
i landed.
| The Spanish steamer Gerona. 403 tons,
: is reported to have been sunk.
A Reuter dispatch from Chritsiania
says it is announced by the Norwegian
ministry of commerce that in November
nineteen Norwegian vessels, with a
total tonnage of 32.993, were lost.
The sinking of the Grteck steamship
Ipiros.* 1.0S4 tons gross, by a German
submarine is reported in a Reuter dispatch
from Las Palmas, Canary Is|
lands.
i Router's correspondent at Stavanger,
Norway, says the Norwegian steamship
Stettin. -112 tons gross, has been
sunk by a German submarine.
One of Crack Ships of Fleet.
NKW YORK, December 8 ?The Caledonia
was formerly in the passenger
service between New York and GlasI
gow. one of the crack ships of the An
chor Line fleet. The local offices of the
J line said today that they had heard
j lothing of the vessel since she was
j .ommandeered for government service
ii August, 1914. They had no word of
icr destruction other than contained
in press dispatches. The ship is registered
as commanded by Oapt. Blaikie.
AUTHORIZE CLOTHING STRIKE.
Thirty Thousand Workers May
Walk Out in New York.
NKW YORK. December 8.?Employi
??rs in this citv todav were notified that
f more than 30,000 members of the Amalj
gamated Clothing Workers of America
j had empowered the officials of the
J union to call a strike if the workers
i do not receive the eight-hour day. The
I vote was completed last night. Some
] time ago the union served an ultimatum
upon the American Clothing Manufacturers*
Association and its subcontractors
demanding an increase of $2 a week
i in wages and a reduction in working
hours. The wage increase, aggregating
over J 2.500.000 a year, was granted, but
no action was taken upon the question
of hours.
TI. S. SUPREME COURT IS TOPIC.
i
! American Society to Discuss It for
World Judicial Tribunal
i The sixth national conference of the
j American Society for Judicial Settle-,
i ment of International Disputes, which
1 begins here tonight, will be devoted to
' subjects relating to the powers and i
j procedure of the Supreme Court of the
j United States, a topic selected because
of the many suggestions at past conferences
that the court forms the best
model for an international tribunal.
At the opening session Theodore
Marburg of Baltimore will deliver the
presidential address. The speakers tomorrow
include William H. Taft and
Charles J. Bonaparte, and fhe conference
will close tomorrow night with a banJquet
at which jQhn Hays Hammond
pwill deliver an address.
%
?- : -* j . - .. * ^ ca
NEW NOTE LIKELY
ON IMF MIT
General Submarine Situati(
May Be Taken Up With
Germany Again.
DIFFERENT VIEWS, BELIE
A new note to Germany on the i?
eral submarine situation appears
be among: the possibilities which m
come out of the latest activities of t
underseas boats.
If decided upon, such a note woi
be for the purrose of clearing: up wh
appear to be differences of interpi
tation in Washington and Berlin as
what Germany's pledges in the Suss
case covered, specially as to arm
ships.
Secretary I.arising said today no fir
course of action had been agreed up
by I-residcnt v. llson and himself.
Although the State Department h
been going on the principle of deci
ing each case separately on its mer
it was said today that the number
cases had reached such proportio
that some general action would
justified, although it was made cle
that nothing had been determined up<
Developments in Situation.
The day's developments in the sit
ation were:
The United States asked Great Br
ain for information to determine t
status of the P. and O. liner Arab
which a German submarine command
took for an armed transport.
Official information coming to t
State Department established that t
British ship Marina, torpedoed with
loss of six Americans, was in no sen
a transport, and was entitled to t
immunities of a peaceful merchantms
In both cases Germany has express
a willingness to offer amends if h
pledges were broken.
United States Stands Pat.
It was reiterated again today th
the United States stands squarely
the position it took in the Sussex cai
This, combined with Germany's stat
ment that she, too, holds to the pledg
she gave in that case, leads officials
declare there seems to be some diff?
ence in interpretation.
A new note, if it should be decided
send one, would be to clear this up a
make plain beyond question that t
United States expects all mercha
ships, under international law, shall r
be destroyed without warning or ha
in? it<?ws And nassenerers removed
places of safety.
Affidavits on the sinking withe
warning of the Italian liner Palern
on which State Department recoi
show there were twenty-three Ame
cans, are being collected as rapidly
possible. As yet there are no in?U<
tions that any American lives w<
lost, but frorft information at hand, i
case seems to parallel closely the A
bia and the Marina, i
NEW JAPANESE WARSHIP
SURPASSES ANY FOR U.
Admiral Badger Tells House Nav
I Committee of Tendency to Build
j Heavier, Faster Boats Abroad.
i
Japan is building a larger, more po'
I snui aim on uici uaiiicoiiip liiiaii a
I built or planned for the American na\
Rear Admiral Badger of the genet
board today, told the House naval coi
mittee, explaining: the board's recoi
mendation for larger ships in the 19
program. The Japanese ship, he sa:
will have a main battery of twel
13-inch or lC-inch guns, again
twelve 14-inch on American vessc
now building, and eight lG-inch f
ship's authorized last year.
The characteristics of battleships pr
posed by the general board, Admir
Badger said, called for twelve 16-in
guns, a speed of twenty-three kne
and a displacement of 40,000 tons. T
tendency abroad, he said, was towa
heavier, stronger, faster ships, a:
the navy must keep abreast ot tli
movement.
Admiral Badger and Rear Admit
Fletcher, also attached to the genet
board, agreed that speed in excess
twenty-three knots was not desirable
this lime, as it would increase the si
ol ships without giving any substanti
added advantage.
Members of the committee question
the two admirals as to the value
heavy armor for battleships in the lig
of naval engagements of the prese
war. The officers agreed that an armor
ship had the best chance to survive, ai
pointed out that the British battlesh
Warspite had faced the fire of the tie
man fleet in the Jutland fight witho
being sent to the bottom. Us were light
armored ships.
WANT TO HEAR PRESIDENT.
Members of Southern Commerci
Congress Extend Invitation.
Senator Fletcher, president of ti
Southern Commercial Congress, whi
} begins its annual session in Sorfo
i next week, accompanied by a deleg
' lion of Virginia citizens, called
! President Wilson this afternoon to i
j vite him to address the meeting. T
' President may accept (he invitation, s
! though it has been anounced from ti
Whit<f Ilouse that Mr. Wilson will sti<
; pretty close to Washington for the ne
; three months, while Congress is in se
j si on.
j The President has intimated
Speaker Clark his desire to make
j western trip next spring if conditio
j of public business will permit.
.
Ratifies Auxiliary Service.
I LONDON, December 8.?The Germ:
I emperor. according to the Berl
papers, lias ratified the auxiliary ser
ice bill, which thereby comes into fore
says a Renter dispatch from Amste
dam.
New Room for
Presidential Relics
in White House
This remarkable collection
is now housed in a specially remodeled
room at the White
House, the work having been
done while the President and
Mrs. Wilson wer<; at Shadow
lawn. Read this account of the
"show feature" of the Execulive
Mansion in The Sunday
Star. . . . .
5
GERMANS CUTOFF
Y RUMANIAN FORCES
?AND CAPTURE 10,000*
Retreat From Predeal and?
Altschanz Passes Disastrous
\ to King Ferdinand's Men.
8,000 MORE MEN LOST
"? IN ENGAGEMENT ON ALT
il?]
Invaders Pressing Enemy Back
toj Farther to North and East
ex
teil i of Bnchawnt.
jal
on The rounding: up of Rumanian troop* ,
is being continued by the Teutonic J
as forces. More than 10.000 prisoner* j
id- were taken when the Germans cut off j
its 1
0[ the Rumanian retreat from Predeal and <
his Altschanz passes, according to Rerlin. '
be The situation north and east of Bu- ;
chasest. following the surrender of the j
capital, has not vet been clarified by
the official reports. Seemingly the Ruu_
manians and such Russian troops as
were aiding them are still on the retreat
northeastward, rapidly leaving
jje the remainder of southeastern Wallaja
chia in the hands of Field Marshal von
ier Mackensen, and military commentators
for the most part do not expect a
stand to be made by the Rumanians belie
fore the line of the Buzeu river is
a reached. This line virtually closes the
he nft?k province of Moldavia, running
eastward from the Hungarian
: frontier to Galata. on the lower Danube
" near the Bessarabian border. It is regarded
as a strong defensive line and
one easily susceptible of reinforcement
from Russian sources.
^ Russ Suffer Heavily
on
When Attacks Fail,
'I According to Berlin
to
By the Associated Press.
fr~ BERLIN. December 8. by wireless to
Sayville.?Attacks made by Russian
troops yesterday in the Ludova region, in
he the Carpathians, and in the *rrotus va?nt
ley. on the northern Rumanian front,
lot were repulsed with heavy losses, the war
\Q office announces.
Rumanian troops retreating from the
>ut Predeal and Altschanz passes aere cut
no, off by Teutonic fonces and most* of them
ds have been captured. In western Rumania
,r|. the pursuit is being continued by the
as Austro-German troops, which yesterday
3a_ took more than 10.000 prisoners.
... The Rumanians on December 6. in adthe
dWot to the fortress, of Bucharest and. -j
the most important commercial towhe,
lost one division which was forced into
an engagement on the Alt and was obliged
to capitulate with 8.000 men and 26 cannon.
Latest German Statement.
The latest statement follows:
"Front of Archduke Joseph?After
the failuree of the great relieving ofa
fensive in the Carpathians the Russians
have undertaken only local attacks.
Yesterday they several times
drove against our lines on the Budova
and in the Trot us valley. They were
iv_ sanguinarily repulsed.
ny "Front of Field Marshal von Maekryf
ensen?Our advance against and across
al the Bucharest-Ploechti line proceeded
jj_ so rapidly that the Rumanians, located
n. in the frontier mountains, in the Prc18
deal and Altschanz passes, had no
i(ji chance to retreat in time. On their re
ve tirement they encountered German and
iS* Austro-Hungarian troops, anil. being
?js pressed from the north, a majority of
or them already have been made prisoner.
"Between the mountains and theG_
Dr.-u'be the pursuit is proceeding. The
al ninth army yesterday took more than
Ch 10,000 prisoners. On the Alt the Rults
manians cut off in western Rumania
he met their unavoidable fate. Col, von
rtl Ssive. with Austro-Hungarian and German
troops under his command, on Deat
cember t>. forced them to surrender. Ten
battalions, one squadron and six bat aj
teries, numbering S.OOO men. with 25
.aj | cannon, laid down their arms."
?e? Rumania VVithhcldinq
News of Late Events;
?{| Armies Thought Intact
Hy I It** Associated Pre*-*,
i LONDON. December S.?The Kumaip
nian government still withholds anr
nouncement regarding the latest events.
The only news available respecting the
Rumanian situation comes from Rumania's
enemies.
Pending further information the London
morning papers print second
thoughts on the central powers' successes
by the military critics and editorial
writers. The gist of these opinhe
ions is that, while it would be useless
eh to seek to attentuate the moral adjk
vantage and considerable accession of
useful supplies obtained by the central
a" powers, it would be easy to exaggerate
on the evil consequences lor the entente.
n_ Expressions of certain German newspapers
quoted show that the informed
tie j people of Germany realize that their
'1- j triumph in Rumania has very definite
he ! limitations.
[?k { Among those things which, it is con-*
xt: tended here, materially qualify thO
s- successes of the central powers is the.
j fact that Bucharest voluntarily surto
j rendered. The main bulk of the Rua
I manian army, so far as is known, is in- .
ns I tact and nearing terrain where resistj
ance can be more effective. The losses
j the Germans inevitably suffered from
! the stubborn resistance of the Ru.
- nan ho m
manians, it i?
spared. 1
in
Heavy Fighting Now
re: on Macedonian Front;
- Rival Claims of Success
By the Associated Press.
PARIS. December 8.?Heavy fighting
is in progress on the Macedonian front* |
Three successive counter attacks on the I
Serbians .have been made by German |
and Bulgarian troops in the region of |
Stravina. The war office announces ||
that these attacks were repulsed. ?
BERLIN. December 8, by wireless to |
Sayville.-?"On the Macedonian front
last night attacks made by Serbian -M
troops near Trnova, in the Cerna river
* region, were repulsed by the Germane w
and Bulgarians." the wlr office an* i 1
nounces. "Renewed Brltisl^ ttacks in " J
the Struma'aector also falleA*'
