THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Increasing cloudiness and warmer to
day; rain by night; to-morrow, rain.
Highest temperature yesterday, 51; lowest, 37.
Detailed weather, mail and marine reports an pave 16.
IT SHINES FOPv ALL
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 99.
NEW YORK, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1916. Cowrie!, 111. h the Sua Printing and PuUUMnp AMOClaKon.
ONE CENT
In Greater New York, I Klsewhere
Jersey CHr ead Newark. I TWO t'KNTS.
SCOTT FOR ARMY
SERVICE BY ALL
Chief of Staff, in Animal Re
port, Cites Duties of
Citizenship.
URGKS C03IPULS0RY
SERVICE AT 18 TO 21
Shows Breakdown of Militia
and Regular Systems in
3Ie.xican Crisis.
Wmuisoton, Dec. 7. Major-Gen.
Huh L. Scott, Chief of Staff, sounds the
keynote of the army's prospective fight
for universal military training In his an
nual report made public to-day. H Is
frankly for universal training- and com
pulsory sen-Ice.
It la the first move In a determined
campaign which the army will pursue
faring the present session of Congress,
leiplta tho fact that Secretary Baker
toes cot Indorse It. Army officer" count
en public opinion to assist them after
It Is shown that the present system of
fetltralUed mtlltla has proved a com
pltte failure.
Baling his conclusions on the showing
ef the federallied National duard when
mobilised for border duty, and the fact
that strenuous recruiting campaigns for
both the regulars and guardsmen have
produced negligible results, den. Scott
ays:
"In my Judgment the country will
never be prepared .for defence until we
do as ot,hr great nations do that have
large Interests to guard, like Germany,
Japan and France, where everybody Is
ready and does perform military ser
vice in time of peace as he would pay
every other tax, and Is willing to make
sacrifice a, for the protection he gets and
the country gets In return. There Is no
reason why one woman's son should go
out and defend or be trained to defend
another woman and her eon who refuses
to take training or give service. "The
only democratic method Is for every man
In hli youth to become trained In order
that he may render efficient service If
called upon In war. "
II Takes a Year to Train m Saltier
The report relteratea the opinion, (bat
It takes a year of. Intensive' tralnIngto
make a soldier, and adds' that the coun
try and Congress appear to have a vital
misconception or the facts In this regard.
i. mess me rraerntiieu guard which Con
arm tubatltuted fpr tne citizen volun
trer army advocated by the General
Man can be given greater Ira n nt. n
Beutt fays, the country! faces a serious
situation.
Anil It is very doubtful." he ran
tlnues, "If we will be able to do so and
mp the force recruited. The difficulty
that ia now being experienced In obtain
Ins recruits for the regular army and
for the National Guard In service, nn the
border rslies sharply the question of
whether we will be able to recruit the
iroopa autnorlzed in the national de
renci act.
"Universal military training has been
ine cornerstone upon which has been
Milt every republic In the history' of the
jorM. and its abandonment the signal
iir decline and obliteration. This fact
a fully recognized by the makers of
our Constitution and evidenced In our
sany laws. A regular nrniy was re
larded as Inconsistent with the prlncl
ri' ot rree government, dangerous ,t
nee Institutions and npart from the
n-ciities of the times. All were Im
o-ieu witn n patriotism wh rh won!
make them stand shoulder tn slmulite
In upholding the laws anil In the H
feme of the common country, sharing
equally the blessings of peace and the
narnsiups or war.
"The law required every able bodied
rr.ale between IS and 45 years to keep
himself provided with rifle and amrnunl
Vn and to attend muster, and was in
effect compulsory military service. They
eie caueu logetner for training
muster time only, for the outdoor llfo of
me cirly settlers was considered mi
rlcltnt training for nnv mllltarv Hntv
they wero then liable to be called upon
to perform. Unfortunately the doctrine
of State rights crept In to prevent the
enforcement of Federal law and each
siate was left to build up Its militia.
Wrong; Ideas of Nervier,
It I vital that our Ideas with refer
emc to mllltarv service, lie reeenernteri
Tor our small army we no Into the labor
n-.arKct for recruits. When the demand
r-r labor is lax the stipend of the sol
ner attracts : when the dally wage goe
remittitur Is a, (In lnu'e.t ehh Ther,
Is no appeal tn patriotism, no appeal for
me individual to obtain military tral
'iB as me, iiiglicst duty of his cltlzei
hln. Unllstment Is held nut an n ioh I
hlch the Individual gets small pay. but
i we carect for, with nn outdoor,
inoiesnrno ufe an, retirement on three
quartern pay .and allowances after thirty
j'.irB ot service, and It is accepted as
. The annual return to civil life! of
thnueands who have completed their en
UMinent. with their views of life settled
to lie oint. successful citizens Is a superb
I'uininniHl tn the efficiency of the ma
'lime. ,ih well nH are the thousands who
arc ,.0 insured by the llfo as to take up
ttt (i "y of n soldier as their vocation.
r llrtpmiallillltlra nf I'. H.
"A few e.irs ago we reached
ron the seas and assumed responsi
bilities of Insular possessions and alien
""' In tho Interest of advancing
lillzation wo havo built the Panama
' Jnal We have glvon a flat to thn
-W that on this hemisphere at lenst
'!' survive the principle that rulers
'-rf their Just powers from the con
of Hie ruled. We are entering fully
" ie affairs of the world, nnd ns the
srie.i'e.t (,r nations we must be ready to
uphold i,i, I protect our Institution
' . fundamental with u free people
1 a' in.il opportunities and protection
' ii law bring riiuul responsibility
upholding and maintaining the law,
rnr-h ofm to the body politic his duty
' ' ') n civil tiff all but also In the
j if tin- mil Ion, Wu must
'" u i , ourselirH, mid as the expo-
' .i dwinoci-acy that should re
' ' 'lir political sysleins of the
1 ,ui itiiiMi ready to hold our
tint councils ii f the world, and In
tt hiiiHt be physically tit or wu
'' brueliKil ua)de by the vigorous
VoMlliiued on ronrih Pagt.
CONVICTED OF THEFT,
HE WALKS TO LIBERTY
Morris Littmnn, Sentenced,
Mysteriously Vanishes
From Court Room.
Under the law an Indeterminate sen
tence may mean anything from three
months to three years. Morris Llttman,
on whom this penalty was fixed yester
day afternoon by the Justices In Special
Sessions, took the law Into his own
hands when convicted of petty larceny
and walked away. How he made his
escape from the courtroom Is a mystery.
He and a man known as George
Smith wero arrested on December 5 ns
package thieves. They could not refute
tho evidence, and the verdict waa against
them. As Smith went back over the
Urldge of Sighs ho looked around for
Ittmnn. He was not to be seen;
mlth Is not a man who asks unneces
sary questions. The question came from
another source nn hour later over the
telephone to Warden John Ilanley of
the Tombs Prison,
-nave you a prisoner there named
Morris LltlmanT' he was asked. The
warden looked over his records and said,
res.
well. I'll bet you haven't. I'm his
brother, and he Just dropped In on me
at my home to tell me he had escaped,"
ne was informed.
Llttman a empty cell gave verification.
Special Sessions had adjourned by that
time, warden Ilanley traced back tho
call and found It came from an address
In Ridge street, but Llttman had fled
before the arrival ot the police. A gen
eral alarm waa sent out for him last
night
REPORTS O'RYAN IS
COMING BACK DENIED
Conflicting Rumors Regarding
Return of X. Y. Troops From
Border Arc Received.
Out of the controversy between Major-
Gen. John V. O'lUan and Col. Gordon
Johnston a series of conflicting rtports
cropped up yesterday. One had It that
the commander of New York's division
and his staff had been ordered home;
another was to the effect that Squadron
and the Twenty-third regiment of
Brooklyn would depart from the border
with them. On the heels of these came
denials from the War Department that
any further movement of troops Is under
contemplation or that orders had been
Issued for Gen. O'Kyan's return,
guardl
assert
troops
bulance
k.il.llnn nt Himti a I Corns. Secoml I
t.. i ...i ,v, i,.,.iii,..
uuiuiiiun in,ii..
ters of one brigade to be selected by
r, I
Gen. O'Ryan.
said that al-1
Seml-orrlclally It
though the formal order bringing Gen. 1
O'Ryan back had not lieen Issued It was I
under consideration. Col. Johnston, wno
was transferred to Brownsville pend
ing nctlon by the War Department
on his resignation, has been succeeded
In command of the Twelfth temporarily
bv Col. II. H. Bandholtx. these reports
said. Coupled with this was the positive
announcement that Major Cornelius Van
derbllt had been commissioned us Colonel
to head the Twenty-second Knglneers.
Washington gave no credence to the
stories about Gen. O'Ryan. As to tlicr
withdrawal of troops, it was saia uy
army men qualified to talk with au
thority that there would tie no removals
until the Atlantic City conference be
tween representatives of the Adminis
tration and the Mexican envoys had
made such a step safe.
50 BELOW ZERO Ut ALASKA.
IlallTvar From Menard Makes Mile
44 Winter Terminal.
Border corresponoems reporieu tv . - . . . n, . , . , 'l ' occupation, however alluring in
been officially de ermmeu to iaae .(o. , , ,,, -SVw VorU property. The mi, VeV nrn , ,',r,i in, ,eV . i. m ' "I10"- pretence, lilch Univ..
troops from service at Pharr and Me- amounl of ca,, on ,,,, ,',' '1(,1),islt V""-", "m, ,r '""' .cor, I!' ' Wf"'"' Hlon from her most ex
Allen. Tex. Gen. Kunstou was quoted , Wll ,:,3-..2ifi.j4, T. schedule of per- Ji!u"rSP ,,ic' 11 ,nJI' ' . "'I"1 '" "f motherhood will result
as authority for this depletion of the on.,,.. mciicd $171,424. furniture nnrt ! . .""I rh.,.IIr' ' ner ' In detriment to the nation and the race."
ng force. Supplemental reports ,)?0I1J, v!(ecl nrH VHlueil at m.567. , ?"",.. ,7.. . v '""" .""l,u " 9 I continued the Cardinal.
rd that among tne .ew lorx the steam yacht Agawn at JI 12. D00 nnd . '." " . i 1 As far as t nave ooserveu it appears
designated to go home were Am- the Harkness pew In St. Bartholomew's " , ' " " ,'V " , J ,. ". 'u '"Itliat woman sunrnne to tne extent mat
Company No. 2, Field Hospital church nt tt.WO. There were also valu-1 "" ' , It has lieen granted In tills country n.is
Srward, Alaska, Dec. 7. Train crews .w jersey, $7,964,000 ; 773 shares At
on tho United States Railway reported lantic Refining Company. $533,370 ;
yesterday's weather the coldest they ever I 3,o2 shares Durkeyo Pipe Lino Corn
experienced, the temperature at one puny, $290,640 ; 4"0 shares Colonial Oil
point, where three mountain valleys . Company, $148,050; 773 shares Kurekn
meet, being estimated nt 50 degrcee be-( pipe i.ino Company. $158,165 ; 1,297
low zero. shares Galena Slgnnl Oil Company coin-
Trains will not be operated beyond mon, $1S8, 441 : 3,092 shares Illinois Pipe
Mile 44 after to-day. The last train to . l,nB Company, $528,732 ; 1,146 share
Mllo 52 went through the tunnels yes-
terday with difficulty. Water flowing
from a stream above blocked tunnel
No. 3 with Icicles as thick as a barrel.
The temperature officially recorded
here' to-day Is 5 below xero ; at Anchor
age, 33 below. The colder weather be
gan December 1.
CALLS PEDESTRIANS DANGEROUS
Automobile President Says Persona
on Streets Should He HcKulntrd.
lUi.TtxioB, Dec. 7. The pedestrian la
the most dangerous ns well as the most
defiant factor In street traffic, In the
belief of Dr. It, M. Rowe of Baltimore,
president of the American Automobile
Association, sneaking at the second an
nual convention of the Safety First Fed
eration of America, which opened a
three days meeting here to-day,
Vehicles, Dr. Rowe declared, were so
well covered by regulations that further
nttempW In that line could not bring
... It K.
"The pedcslrlnn." he continued, "the
individual for' whose safety we are
so deeply concernod, wo have not regu
lated nt all, or c lHe to such n limited
extent nnd In so few Instunces that he
Is at thla moment the unconttollcd fac
tor In tratllc. He Is by far the most
dangerous ns well as the most defiant
factor."
NORTHCLIFFE TO KEEP OLD JOB
na II Has o Intention of Join
Juk Cabinet.
London', Dee. 7. "I have no Intention
of Joining the new Cabinet. I prefer to
sll In Printing House Squaro and Car
melite House," said Lord NnrthcllfTn to
a i Vnli al Ne Interviewer to-dny.
From Cnrniellle House he publishes
tho Jtnllv ""J '''"" 1'rlntlng House
Square the rimta. J
C'OMPARTMKNT ('ARM KOIl HAVANA
only l hours Via Atlantic Coaat Line.
1 Trains Dally. Atlantic Coaat Idas, Mil
ITway. Ax.
HARKNESS LEFT
$49,319,601HRE
Brother's Share of New York
Estate $36,182,971 and
Widow's $12,151,029.
VAST HICHES ELSEWHERE
Wns Third Largest Holder of
Standard Oil Securities, Hav
ing; $25,525,909.
The New York estate of Charles W.
Harkness was given a net valuation of
H9,31,601 In an appraisal (lied yester
day In the Surrogates' Court by Transfer
Tax Appraiser John J. Lyons.
Mr. Harkness also had large holdings
which were assessed for an Inheritance
tax In California, IiIm heirs paying
15 DM 18. CO to tho State, the largest
Inheritance tax ever paid there. Cali
fornia also received a large amount from
the estate of a half brother, I .anion V.
Harkness, whose residence wns In the
State and who died in January, 191
Estimate on the Harkness fortune were
made In Kentucky, but It was asserted
by counsel for the estate that the ap-
praisnl was much too large.
The approximate amount which will
be paid to the State of New York In
Inheritance tuxes Is $1.!0S,S31. The
larger portion of this will be paid by
Cdward S. Harkness, to whom the great
bulk of Charles W. Harkness' Standard
Oil stocks were given
Standard till Hnlnlnas aunSS.fMW
Mr. Harkness was said to be the third
largest holder of stocks In the Standard
OH Company nnd Its subsidiaries. The
value of theyp holdings Is appraised nt
1:5,5:3,009. The brother also received
I10,C62,Q6: of the residuary estate,
bringing his share to I36.isr.071.
Mrs. Mary Warden Harknesi, the
widow, will have nn Interest In the cs
tate of S12.1S1.C29. receiving the real
denoe at Fifth avenue and Fifty-fourth
street, appraised lit 1535,000: the garage
and stnble nt 135 West Fifty-second
street, appraised at 135,000: household
effects, automobiles uml personal chat
tels worth M.5G7 nnd one-h.ilf the re
slduary estate, amounting to J 11. ,',37, 062.
Harry S. Harkness. a nephew, re
ceived 133,333; I-ela 11. Kdwards, niece,
$33,333; Myrtle II. McComber, niece,
133,333 ; Kdward W. Coffin, an employee,
15.000. Several Institutions received
generous amounts, Yale University, of
which Mr. Harkness was a graduate,
getting a bequest of 1500,000. The
Lend a Hand Mission was given 115,000
and the Presbyterian Hospital 1350,000.
Hart S,;iaa,tlO In Cash.
The realty owned by Mr. Harkness
11 tile ,., Inl Iniru unnrn'K.,1 nt fhmlw.irwla nf
,inllr- .
............ .
Anions Ms larger Holdings or stocks'
wtri. i?.nnn .Hires nf N'ei- VnrL- I'm. '
tral Railroad. 11.245,000; 17,200 shares '
' Chicago, Milwaukee n
ferred 12.210.200 : 15.3
' I n .. 1.1. ...Ml n li i ai.I.ljin.
and rt. Paul pre-,'"
!10l fcli.'it. I)ii
cago. Milwaukee nnd St. Paul common.!'1
$l,3S.20fl; 3.000 thareH ll.iltimnre nnd I
Ohio Railway preferred, $225,000: 2.siil"'r Mnncnest friends since Her' trouble,
shares of Baltimore and Ohio Railway '
common, 1240,957 ; 4.000 shares of Chi
cago and Northwestern Railway com
mon. tf.Ofi.OOO ; -4, 891 shares New York,
New Haven and Hartford Railroad,
12(16,162; 8.700 shares Southern Pacific,
$835,200 ; 3,600 shares I'tilnn Pacific
Railroad common. $4SO,150.
Also he had 1.500 shares of Atchison,
Topek.t nnd Santa Fe preferred, $150,
000; 1,025 shares Delaware, Lackawana
and Western. $230,625; 1,050 itieat
Northern Railway piefcrrcd, $123,060;
3,850 shares Lake Urle and Wctern
Railroad preferred, $103,950 ; 2,500
sharen Pittsburg nnd Lake Krle Kail
road. $512,500; 1.20S Southern Pacific
Company, certificates of Interest, $140,
128. Hiiorinous OH lluldlitas.
Among the Standard Oil holdings were
15.200 shares Standard Oil Coinnanv of
Indiana Pipe Lino Company, I14C,S70;
7.809 shares National Transit Company.
$133,773 ; 773 shures New York Transit
Company, $131,410 : 9,275 shares nhlo
Oil Company. $2,170,350; 2.783 shares
Pralrlo Oil and Gas Company. $1,146,
596 ; 1,546 shares Southern l'lpc Lino
Company, $306,108 ; 1,935 hhnres South
Penn Oil Company, $673,380; 11,479
shares Standard Oil Company nf Cali
fornia, $2,846,792 ; 4,633 shares Standard
Oil Company of I ml la tin, $2,617,645 ; 310
shares Standard Oil Company nf Kansas,
$136,400 ; 465 shares Standanl Oil Com
pany of Kentucky, $169,723; 11,595
shares Standard Oil Company of New
York. $2,423,355 ; 541 shares Standard
Oil Comnanv of Ohio. 1324 600- If.r,
snares union innx j.ine i ompany, $150,.
snaics vacuum uu lompany,
514,953 ; 30,400 shares Ahclo-Amcrlean
OH Company, Ltd., share warrants,
$463,600,
Industrlnl Investments,
IndUFtrlnl stocks Included 2,300 shares
General Klectrlc Company, $374,900;
1.575 shares National Cnrlmtt Company
,of New Jersey common, $269,325; 1,000
shares Pullman Company, $160,000 ;
2,000 shnres United States Steel pre
ferred. $230,000; J.9S2 .shares Youngs
town Sheet mid Tube Comp-iny pre
ferred, $221,214; 3.537 shales Youngs-
town Sheet nnd Tube, Company common,
$848,880; ;i,780 shares American Tele,
phone nnd Telegraph Company, $483,.
367 : 2,000 shat.'M Brooklyn Rapid Tran
sit Company, $169,250 ; 1,162 shares De
troll Kdlsnn Couin.iny, $152,222 : 2,500
shares Interbnrmigli Construction Cor. tlu evidence showed that Chrlstof Beut
poratlon preferred, $183,750; 1,569 linger was n good and generous man to
sh.nes National Fuel (lus Company,
$318,507 ; 1,210 shares People's Gas
Light and Cnko Company. $124,630 ; 600
shares National Bank of Cmnmerre nf
thn City nf New Yolk. $100,800 ; 625
share Nall'.iMl city ll.iuli, Imiu.llm;
$25,000 Interest In National City Cnin
puny, $280,625 ; 340 shares New York
Ttust Coll, puny, $204,000 ; 6,025 shares
AUHcnn.la Coper Mining Company,
$510,613,
The schedule show that Mr. Iinrkis
owned oondi valued at IMIM07,
4
MRS. BEUTINGER
FREED BY JURY
d judged Guiltless of Murder
ing Husband After 3 Hours
and 5 Minutes.
AT HOME WITH CHILDREN
Verdict Greeted by Handclap-
ping, While Little Woman
Cries and Laughs.'
"Not guilty I"
Foreman William H. Nlblo of the
llcullnger Jury spoke tho words very
low, but low as they were they sounded
through the old Kssex county courtroom,
nnd. In spile of Judge Martin's warning
against n demonstration, started a wave
of clapping that took several attendants
to quell.
It had been an anxious wait of three
hours and five minutes that tho little
prisoner, her sister and children and
friends endured after the Jury filed out
at the close of the Judge's charge at
12:35 noon not long compared to the
twenty-two hours which the Jury In her
previous trial required to agree that they
disagreed, hut' long enough. For Mrs.
Ueuttnger the time waa lightened by the
under sheriffs permission to let her chil
dren stay with her In the anteroom
where she waited.
At 3:t0 P. SI. the twelve men filed
back again, the prisoner was brought In
and stood at their side. Hha was far
more composed yesterday than the day
before, when she collapsed and had to
be cnrrled from the room, but still she
wept softly most of the day, and clutched
ner bottle of smelling salts In a way
that showed she was keeping a mighty
grip on her feelings.
"Not guilty I"
Uasril for a Moment.
rrrru ironi ne cn.yge oi muruerinpij,
ner nuso.inu, .Margaret naire Jieutincer
Xrk,!Se?h!n ?hCl,l '"."J "V '
& ?W, ,l ehlMM T .J lh r.",nLyi
like a pleased child. Then she leaned .
her dark head against the court guard.
i fWfXi Zn Ke ' !p"r?du frT i
dughlng into crying. Walter O. Brand-
ley. her Junior counsel, came down from ,
iviuci i inn nun mr duur, Jinu Pile
grasped his hand and broke Into smiles
again and confused words of thanks.
She heard her children's voices from the
seat where they had been placed, and
like a football player bucking the oppos
ing team she dived Into the swirling
crowd of excited spectators and grabbed
the little ones.
Probably she will never know which
one die hugged first whether nlne-year-
present for tl. lie exclaimed.
,,,.,,, , , .
! mi!, m mutiny goon iirisimas . eharced the result of the election,
"" wnoisuiis nnvo neen ine same n inry wuum
came to testify In Mrs. BeutliiKcr's be-, have been If women had not voted. Thus
""If that Chrlatof Betitlnger had sought
"'"- '"in ' me.c niini.ivii ni.ii ne
saw her In a compromising position with
certain man on a steamship travelling '
.rro,n "broad nnd who has been one of,KnKed in this political work must have
wi,B onc " 'nc nrsi 10 congratulate ner.
l.onas tn Get Hone.
Thrn came women friends, women
from Caldwell and Montclalr and other
Jersey towns, headed by Mrs. iGordon
Mnltli. a surrragist or Montclalr. who has
been ,most active In circulating petitions
In liehalt of Mrs. Ueutlnger. But tho
llttlo woman was longing to be awny
itii.l til. .lift ii.i.u only in nrr i.rins, sue
struggled out through the crowd.
"Let's go home." she said to her
sister.
But first she had to thank Judge
Maitln. I.leut. Walter Godfrey, chief of
the nrosecutor's detectives, who has lieen
so much blamed for his pa.t In making
revolver tests calculated to show Mrs.
llcullnger guilty, said Judge Martin en
tertained tho whole Beutinger family
In his chambers." Anyway, they had a
chance to tell him how glad they were,
nnd then lifter waiting for the crowd out
side to melt and deciding It wasn't going
tn molt Mrs. Beutinger put on her wraps
and went away, a free woman for the
first time since that tragic morning ot
July 1 1 last summer.
At least u thousand pertuns had gath
ered outside. First they thought Mrs.
Beutinger would leave by the High
street entrance, and they crowded there,
and then they thought hhe would come
out by the front door, and the thou
sand plunged around there. After rush
ing nround the building a dozen times,
those who chanced to be near the base
ment door used by the prison van were
rewarded by seeing the little flgme dart
nut, accompnnled by her children and
sister and the servants who testified In
the case, and with them climb Into a
huge automobile, With Mr. Brandley,
her lawyer, at the wheel, they whirled
away, Mrs. Beutinger waving her hand,
kerchief in rervone to tho lusty cheer
that went up.
Prosecutor SatUfleil."
i I)own ln ,) cfiire on Market street
I .Wnh Newman, the Kssex county nrose.
rulnr, snld he was "satisfied with the
verdict."
"I had to do my duty," he said. "It
wasn't n pleiiHiint duty, but I did It. And
the Jurors did theirs. I'm wholly satis
fied." i
He smiled ns If he felt n whole lot
happier nt tho thought of Mrs. Beutinger
home with her children liutead of in the
Kssex county Jail. Then with conald
t-rnblo Hatlsf notion he dlsplajrd a note,
which Robert II. Mct'nrter, senior lawyer
for the defence, had handed lilni Just
before the Jury went out,
"Jake." It ran. "whatever happens In
this case, you havo been fair us well
us able, You have performed your duty
udmlrabty, and I congratulate you,"
It wns n -brief summing up the prose-
enlnr nitnle. Hh hhI.1 mi.liv nnlnt. In
I.I t I. .1,., u,,,!,l bIuw ..lll. 1,1 I..
in im it ptw num .-. (inn, in
stancing his purchuso of a home for the
family In Caldwell, and his visits to the
St, flair School to see his children. The
prosecutor said that though Mrs. Beut
ItiRcr waa alone, snve for the two little
sleeping girls, with her husband when
she shot him, there were "many silent
witnessed" to tho deed, and the silent
witnesses, such as the blood stained
chair, ahowed that lie was sitting quietly,
Continued on Math Pag.
SUFFRAGE HARD
HIT BY CARDINAL
Mgr. Gibbons Tells "Anti"
Convention It Robs Sex
of Character.
DETRIMENT TO NATION
Draws Women From Duty of
Motherhood Root Flays
the Cause.
Washington, Dec. 7. Delegation!
from every section of the country were
present to-day at tho opening session ot
the first anti-suffrage convention. They
listened to a number of addresses by
women and men deploring the seeking
by women of political equality and urg
ing that they can be of mo e and greater
service to tho nation In other fields.
Most of the speakers. Including Mrs.
Arthur M. Dodge of New York, presi
dent of the National Association Opposed
to Woman Suffrage, attacked particu
larly the movement for a Federal suf
frage amendment. Kllhu Itoot, In a
paper read for him by Miss Alice Hill
Chittenden of New York, protested
against such an amendment, holding It
contrary to the spirit of American Insti
tutions and the subjection of the people
of ' one State to (he government of
others.
Cardinal Tlbbons sent a message,
which was read, deprecatl j the partici
pation of women In politics. Frederick
Huldekoper, vice-president of tho Ameri
can Security league, spoke In tho place
of Gen. Leonard Wood, who was unible
to attend, nnd urgeJ the antl-suf-fraclsts
to work for the cause of pre
paredness. Tells of llr.I Cross Work.
Miss Maliel Hoardman of tne Amen-1
can lied Crocs told of the work of that ,
organisation. Other speakers. Including ,
u , Hoblnson of
Cambrldce.
m .u... ,1,. ,,i,iirt in
"rest's League, told how antl-suf-
TMtata had tnc ,rk ,,f tnc
, ,.-. .i,,,!,,,, ,h war in furnne
",Xrg .f the "n.Salion
to-night attended banquet nt which
there oth,r addre-es. The con-
w, COIltlnue through to mor-
row. Before adjourning plans to uncut
the proposed Federal amendment will be
considered.
Cardinal Gibbons In his message de
clared :
'The Insistence on a right ot participa
tion in active political life Is undoubted
ly calculated to rob woman nf her grace
of character and give her nothing in re
turn but masculine boldness and ef
frontery,
(There h.i l.een h lareer vnte. but tho re
- .. : ........
It seems that our political life ha. not
wen nenenten or purineu ny tne en-
trance nf woman Into the nolltlcal aienn.
though the domestic life of those en-
been neglected oral least Impaired
llnemj f Female rs.
I iegar.1 'woman's rights' women and
i the lenders nf the lieu srhn.il nf female
progress as the worst enemies of the
female sex, I wish I could Impress nn
American women the dangers that would
attach to such Innovation?,
"The mont precious, undeveloped as.
,ct of nny nation is Its children. An all
wise God through the law of nature has
committed this precious tieasuro In a
special manner to the mother. Women
cannot vote Intelligently unless they give
time to an Intelligent study of political
questions, and all such time taken from
fS.'ui TnTAio, , wltlio
'!?.. K ..,.i..?.
the household will he Injurious to tho
t giving tn tho
present generation any appreciable
benefit in the purifying of the ballot.
"When I deprecnte female suffrngo I
am pleading for the dignity of woman, I
nm contending for her honor, I nm strlv
Ing to perpetuate those peerless pre
rogatives Inherent In her sex, those
charms and graces which exalt woman
kind and make her tlie ornament und
coveted companion nf man. Woman is
queen Indeed, nut ner empire is the
domestic kingdom, The gieatest polltl
cal triumphs she could achieve In public
llfo fade Into Inslgnltlcanco compared
with the serene glory which radiates
from the domestic shrine and which she
Illumines and warms by her conjugal
nnd motherly virtues."
Rx-Nrnntor Ilnnt's VleiTi,
Former Senator Root's nrgtiment
against womnn suffrage was based on
his opposition to "having the Constitu
tion of the United States amended so as
tn Impose woman suffrage on the States
which do not wish for It,"
,"lt is n destruction of tho right of
pelf-government and a subjection of the
people of New York to the government
nf others," Senator Root continues.
"Having failed to secure tho assent to
womnn suffrage nf such States ns South
Dakota nnd West Virginia and Ohio and
New York and Pennsylvania, the advo
cates of woman suffrage now seek to
compel such States to accept It against
their will and to compel them to carry on
their local government and eelect their
representatives in the national Govern
ment In conformity to the opinions nf
the people nf other Stntes who are In
fnvor of woman suffrage.
I think such an attempt is contrary
to the principles of liberty upon which
the American union wan established and
without which It cannot endure."
SOLDIER VOTES $22.75 EACH.
That Will Be the Cost Merely to
Cnnnt Them In Westchester.
The Westchester Board of Klectlons
at While Plains tecelved yesterday the
votes of 220 soldiers from Westchester
county cast on the Mexican herder. It
Is going tn cost the county more than
$5,000 to canvass the 220 ballots, or
about $22.75 n vote.
It will be necessary to reconvene the
election board s in every district where u
soldier claims his residence, Kach eleu
tlon olflcer will draw $10 a day, West
Chester gave 12,000 Republican plurality.
nr. Heath's Kaauraa satisfying thirst
quanchtr, Aittrtiumiut,
CARDINAL MERGER IS HELD
A PRISONER IN HIS PALACE
Germans Reported to Have Acted Against Belgian
Primate for Utterances on Protest of De
portations Warned to Desist.
AusTiruiAM, via London, Dec. 7.
Cardinal Mercler, Primate of Belgium,
Is confined to his palace by the German
authorities, according to the frontier
correspondent of the Tele proof, who says
he hears this on good authority.
The reason given Is the action taken
by the Cardinal against the deportation
of Uetglans.
Cardinal Mcrcler'a most recent pro
test to tho Germans against their con
duct In Ilelglum was made In a personal
letter written to Gov.-Gen. von Hissing
denouncing tho German "slave raid" de-
RUMANIA ARMY
ESCAPING TRAP
Retreating With Russians
Along Whole 125 Mile Front
in Wallachia.
REAR GUARD IS FIGHTING
Desperate Effort to Hold Back
Pursuing Teutons 1 00,
000 Captured.
IeONDON, Dec. 7. Escaping the Teuton
Iran Intended to catch Rumania's armies
h can, lll0 num.mlans
' '
""d Hu'slans who abandoned Bucharest
are retreating precipitately eastward
along the whole 125 mile front In W'al-
larhla. The rear guard Is fighting drs-)
perately to hold back the pursuing Teu
tons. Though the main body has eluded the
Teuton encircling movement, 9,100 men
nnd 106 officers were captured yesterday
by the German army that took Ploeeel.
Camplna nnd filnala, .Since Bumnnla
declared war 100,000 Rumanians have
been brought to German prison camps,
according to. the Berlin l.okal Anttigcr.
Thta'newajaper says the Germans be
lieve, nnd "observers here are Inclined to
ngree, that the nusso-ltumanlan retreat
will not stop much before Moldavia, Ru
mania's northern province, is reached.
W'alljrhl.i. the southern province, will be
left entirely In Teuton hands, it Is be
lleed. This means a retreat of at least
100 miles from Bucharest.
.Newspaper Comment Is IIIHrr.
The German official statement to-day
says Rumania, by the fall of Bucharest.
Is made "till" latest victim of the Kn
tente policy." Newspaper comment and
public opinion here and In Paris and
Petrograll, as represented In despatches,
Is that this is the nlmost literal truth.
Deep shame Is felt that the Allies have
permitted their newest and one of their
weakest allies to have been crushed as
Belgium, Serbia and Montenegro have
been crushed. -
A Renter despatch from Amsterdam I Prench Deputies i:.re. Conn
says Kmperor Charles of Austrla-Huu- , , tin, rrnnirnt by !I44 to Kin
gary spent yesterdny at Austrian head
quarters discussing with his military ad- Paris, Dec. 7. The Chamber of Den
vlser.s the military and political sltua-
tlon brought about by the capture of
Bucharest and Ploescl
The hope of the Central Powers that
the Rumanian campaign will result In n
victorious peace Is shown by the fact
that tho Kmperor sent a telegram to
King Ferdinand of Bulgaria expressing
Joy at the result and hoping that "wo
will succeed In the nenr future In con
vincing the enemy nf tho futility of
future bloodshed." A similar telegram
expressing hope of n speedy and final
victory was sent by the Kmperor to tho
Sultan of Turkey.
(nmplnn n niar OH Centre.
To-dny Berlin announces officially the
capture, of Cnmplna, an oil centre necond
In Importance only to Ploescl and of
Slnala. which were reported captured
yesterday. Besides being the Rumanian
summer capital. Slnala is i fashionable
summer resort, where are many villas of
Rumania's aristocracy and two summer
nalnces
No Intimation Is given to-day either
hv Berlin or by Petrograd, which admits
tho Russo.Rumanlan retreat, whero the
hostile nrmles now arc situated. Nn
llitmnnlnn S tatcment has been Issued
since tho Teutons won tho declslvo battle
nt the Arces.
It Is believed here that the main line
by which Rumntilan heavy guns and
stores are being rushed out of reach
of the Teuton pursuit Is the railroad
r.nininir caBt from Bucharest to Kltescl.
which Is nt tho western end of the
great Cernavoda causeway. Thence i
road runs northwest Into Moldavia.
I'ugltlves May Make a Stand.
The first natural line for the Rumnn
lans to stand on would be the Jnlomltsa,
at eomo points) only twenty-five miles
northeast nf Bucharest, hut this line al
ready Is outflanked far to tho north.
Then would tome the Buieu River,
twentv.flve miles further on, The Jnlo
mltsa line would be 100 miles long, thb
Ruxeu lino little snorter,
it is thought, however, that the Rus
.i.n. mid Rumanians cunnot really
mr,,i until thev reach tho lower Sereth
nn.i thn Rumanian forties line of
ltr.lhi linlats und Fncsnhl
This line Is only seventy-five miles
in.,- unit so takes fewer troops to tie
fend it Is supposed that tho northern
part of the line. In the Carpathians, can
tu. held. The new front would then be
n continual Ion uf the Russian front from
Domn Watra Hurt It llio v.arpuiiuuiiBi
turning southeast nt tho bend of Rti
mania, crossing tho Dobrudja and rest
Ing on tho Black Sea,
Official German Statement.
The official German statement to-day
reads :
Ft nnt of Archduke Joseph In the
wooded C.irpathlans and on the front
of the Moldavian mountains there wns
a temporary Increase In urtlllery fire
and advance skirmishes, from which
the.e de eloped Russian attacks north
of Doriin Wutra and In the Trotus
Valley. These were repulsed.
Army group of Field Marshal von
Continued on Second Page.
portattons of Uelgians. It J cry
strong In tone.
In January of last year Cardinal
Mercler was arrested by order of Gen.
von Ulsslng because of a pastoral letter
In which he wrote: "We await the day
of revenge." The Pope protested to the
Kaiser, calling tho arrest an outrage
ngnlnst God and man. Cardinal Mercler
waa released.
In April this year Cardinal Mercler
wrote another pastoral letter predicting
victory for the Allies. When Von His
sing warned him to refrain from crltl
c'slng the Germans the Cardinal i-cplled
that It "Is better to obey God than man."
He has consistently defied the Germans
nnd protested their treatment of the
Belgians.
GREECE FACING
NEW BLOCKADE
Measure Intended To-day as
Reprisal for Military Activ
ity by Royalists.
FOREIGNERS QUIT ATHENS
Diplomats of Four Nations De
mand Explanation at
Foreign Office.
Paws, Dec. 7. A blockade of Greece
as a measure of reprisal for the riots in
Athens. In which French marines were
fired upon,- will be ofllclally announced
to-morrow.
The Busslan, Italian, French nnd Brit
ish Ministers ut Athens cnlled In a body
nt the Foreign Office at 2:30 o'clock yes-
terday afternoon nnd demnnded nn ex
planation of Greek military activity.
Gen. H.urall, the French commander.
Is quoted ns saying thnt he prefers
Greece openly hostile to an unsettled
situation. Members ot the Russian
colony will leave Athens to-morrow. The
Italian colony Intends to remain.
The allied diplomats, although they
have received no Instructions as yet, see
no prospect of an arrangement by the
Greek Government, and It la believed
that they will demand at least the re
establishment of allied control of the
police, poi-ts nnd telegraphs, railways,
ports, customs and panfimrt.
Greece Can
Ktnnil UO nay Slrae.
Atiibn's
via Ijondon. Dec. 7. Not-
It was nsserted In Government circles
'that Gr cce can withstand ti siege for
twenty day, although districts that can
'e reached only by water will suffer
more quickly.
VOTE FAITH IN WAR LEADERS.
( utics by n vote of 341 to 160 passed i
.,,..,, .n.nlcht exnrc!iw conlldin?e
the Government In Its conduct of the
SPAIN PROTESTS DEPORTATION.
Berlin Press Justifies Trent ment of
Delglnn as l.eKHl.
M stkrpam (via London), Dec. 7
According to the Berlin Sartlileutschr
Allrjrmrlnr Xtitunn the Spanish Kmbassy
has handed the German Government a
urotest from tho Belgian Government
against thn deportations of Belgians.
Commenting on this tin; paper sios the
action of the Germans was in conformity
with Article 43 of the Hague convention.
After denying that there wcie any
scenes or horrors during the deporta
tions or that any Belgian had been forced
to do work forbidden liy international
law, the newspaper says coercion was
necessary In the case uf workmen who
refused to work, In regard tn the reiul-1
sltlo,; oV'rmateHaTrit'y'eTtedl
that this was In accordance with the
needs of the army and in agreement with
Article 52 ot the llniiue convention.
110,000 More I'rrnrh Deported.
I.ONPON. Dec. 7. A despatch to he
Exchange Telegraph Company from Am
sterdam . tys:
"De. nations from northern France
havo been resumed. Sixty thousand al
legedly unemployed .rsous from Lille,
Roubal.:. Turcoing nni cumurnl passeu
through Liege In the last tlx days In long
trains composed of cattle cars, bound for
Duesseldorf, Relmscheld and i-;ssen. De
portations also have begun In Namur
p: luce, Belgium.
EXCHANGE CIVILIAN PRISONERS
llutsla and Germany Aided by
American Diplomat!.
Stockholm, Via London, Dec. 7. Ar
rangements for tho exchange of rlilllan
prisoners by Russia nnd Germany have
been completed, several groiuis have
passed through Sweden for Germany
and others uro on the way.
It Is due principally tn the Joint efforts
of David It, Francis, American Ambas
sador at Petrograd, and Irn Nelson
Morris, Amerlcnn Minister nt Stockholm,
that the arrangement was reached, Mr.
Morris began tho negotiations more than
a year ago. Tho thanks of the German
Government have been conveyed to Mr.
Morris nml Mr. Francis for their efforts,
The arrangement Includes nil women
and children, as well as men more than
45 years old, About 100,000 persons In
Russia nr affected. The number nf
Russian civilian prisoners In Germany
la Inconsiderable, but tho exchange will
bo made regardless at the disproportion,
Herman P.xehHiiae Drops,
ninta. Dee. 7. Swiss despatches re.
port that notwithstanding the German
vietnrlea in Rumania the German I on
m.ri hill fell to SO francs the loi.est
nrlca since the war on tho Zurich
Bourse.
wlthsriindliig that It Is general y believe. mectlni? , tllc ,loua(. ot common
the Knten to blockade v go Into effect ,a;orlty vote to take
I "nm1 V?" e-!! 'J "Z. m Utlc ;.ft a Pt In the new Government. It Is noted
J on r enrr 'nsVann" that the acceptance by the Labor p.rtjr
and the Italian Minister this afternoon. f Mr- L--J torge s Invitat on to enter
LLOYD GEORGE
ACCEPTS POST;
FORMS CABINET
In Audience With King He
Agrees to Be Premier
of England.
LABOR PABTV AGREES
TO GIVE FULL SUPPORT
In Return It Will Get Five
riaees in the New Gov
ernment. :
BALFOUR'S POSITION
IS STILL DOUBTFUL
Bonar Law Jfoy Be First
Lord of Admiralty
Home Rule Gains.
Sptrlat Cable VeipHrh , Tbs Sex
London, Dec. 7. Tho British Cabinet
crkds is virtually settled. The only
question now Is what statesman will bs
members of the new Cabinet which
David Lloyd Gcorgo already ban practi
cally micceeded In organizing. It l re
arnrded ns certain that most of the for
mer Cabinet will be left out.
Mr. Lloyd George's acceptance of the
task of forming a new Ministry Is indl
tatcd In the following announcement tr
night In the Court Circular:
"Tho Right Honorable David Lloya
George had an audience of the King thla
evening mid accepted his Majesty's offer
ot tho post ot Prime Minister and Flrt
Lord of Die Treisury and kissed his
hands upon his appointment."
It is understood that Lloyd GeortJe has
received most encouraging assurances
from the leading parties. A significant
development of the day waa the visit eC
Labor representatives to the War Ofllea.
where the delegates conferred with the
new Premier for more than nn hour.
At an early hour the I'aillamcntnty
Labor party held a meeting to consider
Its position. Later the representatives)
proceeded in a body to tho War Oltlca.
l.arly In the afternoon they held a fur
the Government was unconditional.
Strnnir Snpimrt l.uoUeil 1'or.
An excellent authority told the cor
tcspondent ot Tut: St .s- that the support
which Lloyd George will lecelvo In the
House of Commons Incliidts tho entire
Unionist party and seventy Liberals. In
addition Lloyd George hopes to win the
nupport of the Labor party, and Is study
ing what concessions ho might Ik; nble
to offer to Ireland In order to win tha
support of tho Irish membcre,
The Unionist party la about equal to
the. Labor and Liberal parties put to-
i gethrr. If tho Unionists supported
I Lloyd George and ull the Liberals nnd
Liburlti's wero in tho opposition the
lull. uire would rest with the Nationalists,
It Is obvious, therefore, lh.it w'nnlin; tha
Labor vote Is of the li!glit'"t Importance.
When the conscription bill w-.is passed
Arthur Henderson and other Labor lend
ers resigned from tho Cabinet. Labor
always lias nrdently opposed conscrip
tion, w hlch Lloy.l Georgo has championed
as ardently.
If Lloyd George's plans are successful
Mr. Asqulth Is expected to assumn the
leadership of the opposition, together
with all the Liberal c-Mlnlstcrs.
Press I. nuds l.lnj.l George.
A re'uark.iblo feature of tho present
phase of tho crisis Is the absolute
unanimity of tho press In supporting
Llojd Georgo In -his cfTnrls. Mr As
qulth's stanchest hupporters confine
themselves to praise of tho Premier.
All agree that Lloyd Gcorxn will have
- ;' ' .lr rnt.t.lo ot the nation
if he Is successful.
Tho Manchester (Jti.iiillini, the strong
est Radical newspaper, wluc'u lias a large
following, s.is tlurn can be little doubt
that the new tnlulstr) will be n better
ministry ullke for tho conduct of -affairs
at homo and thn waging of tho war
abioad than that which It supersedes.
It will be In closer touch with the
House of Commons, nnd through It with
the countrj.
In nil probability It will bn faced with
a new opposition, which again should be
to It a source not of we.ilne.ss but of
strength
fur all which things let it
not be forgotten we have to thank the
bold and cse.'iit,i!v pati inin- Initiative
of Mr. Llod George '
Aaiiultli Men to t,.
From present Indications the entire
list of tho Asqulth supporter will go.
It Is generally agreed that no plates will
be found In tho new Cabinet for Vis
count Grey, Lord Crewe, Reginald Mc
Kenna, L. V. Harcourt. Herbert Samuel,
K. S. Montague or Harold J. Teiinant.
Tho .'renin;; .Vctcs, Mr. I.lod George n
organ, says lliu names of now Cabinet
Ministers will not b published until to
morrow, but that the new Premier al
ready hat. sufficient offers to make up an
extremely powerful government, which
will Include several business men of
great and trim! ability, lrrrpcUle of
party values or ties,
Mr. Lloyd George's efforts, It is ndded,
havo been facilitated by a refusal of
help ft out many nf Ills former colleagues,
because It was thus needless to consider
their claims.
Thn Hvrning Stnnilnril nay.s It under
stands that A. .1. ltilfoiir, First Lout of
tho Admiralty, will Join the new Min
istry pioli.ibly us Colonial Seeninrjr;
also that -tin-re Is a stiung probability
fiat Walter Rum- m in, piesl-Ienl of tha
Board of Trade, will be n member ot
the Ministry, while Andrew ll.inr Lair
probably will bo ir.udo First l.oirt of tha
Admiralty.
Other name.s mentioned for poets In
the new Cabinet Include Irrt Reading,
now Lord Chief Justice; Walter II, Long,
