THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YE AK
10 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, FRIDAY MORNING, DECEMBER 8,.1916
10 PAGES
VOL. XXVII, NO. 203
ITS KILL
L
Republican A. P. Lessed Wire
KL TASO, Pec. 7. Three more
names were added to the list of for- i
dinners who have been killed in Mex- j
ioo by bandits since the revolutions
started. I
Guiellermo Snyman, son of the late 1
(".eneral W. I). Snyman, of Hoer war
fame; Howard Weeks, or Howard Gray,
as he was known in Mexico, and an
American named Foster were the fresh
names added to the foreign death scroll.
Although they were believed to have
been killed many days ago the news of
their fate only reached the border to
day, when messages and refugees told
of their fate. i
Young Snyman was reported to have
met his death at the hands of Villa
bandits at San Pablo Meoqui, Chihua
hua., near Chihuahua City. He was
said to have died without knowing of
bis father's death recently. Howard
Weeks, an employe ,of the Alvarado
Alining and Milling company, an Amer
ican concern, was called to the door
of his home near Parral while he was
ealing Bupper with his family, accord
ing to information brought to the bor
der today by Spaniards. Weeks, who
went by the name of Gray, was mar
ried to a Mexican woman and had five
children.
Little has been learned of the third
victim of bandits. A letter from a
Spaniard inr Torreon to a countryman
here said an American named Foster
had been horribly maltreated and then
burned to death at a stake while bis
son saw him die. The murder oc
curred at a hacienda near Torreon, the
letter said. The man' first name, his
borne in the 1'nited States and his rel
utives are not known.
Villa's bandits wreaked their ven
jioance on American property in Chi
huahua City by looting many Amer-'
ican homes, carrying off large quan- !
titles of American -owned property and
destroying what they were unable to
haul away, messages received here late
today from the Chihuahua slate cap
ital say. !
The home of Donald B. Gillies, an
American mining operator in Chihua
hua, was looted of practically every
thing it contained This home was one
f the most beautiful on Paseo Boli
var and was robbed by L'ribe. Villa
bandit leader. Everything was taken
from the house, including the piano,
the talking machine and even the car-'
pets. Mr. Gillies, who has been mak
ing his home here, estimated his loss
to be $10,000 tonight, having lost every
thing in the home but the silver, which
was brought to the border when the
family came.
The curio ilore belonging to Howard
Wchneider, said lo be a German sub
ject. wasenter?d and quantities of
curios, hats, shawls and other finery
taken. However, the most expensive
Jewelry In the store was overlooked
for the cheaper articles, according to
a message received here today by
Schneider's son.
Dannis & Son's store was also looted
and an automobile taken from the yard
near the store, another message stated,
iiunrii & Son had recently received a
large shipment of shoes, it was said,
and these were all taken by the bandits.
The dry goods store owned by an
Arabian company was robbed of prac
tically Its entire stock. Almost a solid
block of stores belonging to Arabs and
other foreigners was burned on the
street back of the Chihuahua cathe
dral, according to another report. The
buildings In this block were owned, by
lnacio Enrlques, a leading Carranza
sympathizer.
Government agents her received a
report today of more than ISO Mexicans
having been executed by the Villa ban
dits, but this report was not confirmed.
A delegation of American mining
men are planning to leave here next
week to make an investigation of con-
(Continued or. Page Five)
Continuing the application of the
contestant. G. W. P. Hunt, for In
spectors lo pA,k over lne halu f
ths entire state. Judge Htanford yes
terday gave the contested, Governor
Elect Tom Ompbell an opportunity
through his attorneys, lo prepare
their side of the legal rattle that will
be waged over the highest office In
tae. gift of the people of the state.
Judge R, E. film, for the ennfestee,
opposed the issue of the order ap
jiomting inspectors, on the groiahdlt'
v as premature and thut the eontexte
tad had no chance to prepare his
course of action. It Is said thut under
tre law, the c-onte.etee has not yet
officially appeared In court, either in
person of by attorney. Judge Sloan
merely acting as "friend of the court."
nejjator ives ror the contestant, an
nounced yesterday his departure for
Tucson and cald he would ne back
on Saturday to renew his application.
The fact of the matter seems to be
that the contestant has no case, and
I'len to use the court machinery lo
secure a look at the ballots, not to re
count them, but merely to see if lie
has a peg on which, to hang a con
test. The lndeftpition of the bill of
I articular Is one of the peculiar
phusej of the contest. If contest It
tan be called.
There is a good deHl of speculation
Hnent the status i f the governorship
In c:',:e the contest is pot settled by
Jenuary 1 The best legal opinion
of the sla'.e Is that unless the con
test snouid be drilled In Hunt's fav
or durirg December, Tom Campbell
can and will be Inaugurated the fi'st
week of the jear. It Is held that the
declaration of the election r-tinns
made by Seeretnty of State f.idney
1'. Osborn. oM'iclafiy qualified Camp
bell to take ft,Ifie r fie de facto,
though not as the de jure governor.
Ho, far from attempting to fafl'itat
the decision on the governorship con
test, the Incumbent Is merely s'oul
in tannine to see what he can iee,
prior to engaging In a real and pur
poseful legal battle. In the event he
should accidentally discover some
LAWiERS THINK CAMPBELL WILL
BE GOVERNOR AFTER JANUARY I
CABINET CRISCTuvER
Republican A. P. teased Wire
IllMM lX, De. 7. David Lloyd
George at Buckingham Palace to
night formally kissed the king's
hands on his acceptance of the of
fice of Prime minister and first
lord of the treasury. This Inell
T.ts that the new premier sees
his way to the formation of an
administration, and he probably
was able to submit to the king a
.preliminary list of some of the
proposed ministers.
Doubtless much remains to he
done in the way of the allocation
of the new posts, and so far as
the public is concerned the per
sonnel of the mini.steiy is a matter
of pure speculation. Hut the pre
mier still has plenty of time be
'ore ho has to meet parliament
Tuesday, to complete details and
he will doubtless be in a position
to present to the house of com
mons his new national minister)',
representing all parties with the
posible exception of the national
ists, and. if common report is to
le tnsed. comprising a strong
business element.
Misgivings to a large part have
disappeared, mainly owing to the
fact thai oe has been a.ile to
gain the support of the labor
party by an offer of two min
isterial posts and three under
sec "-etiirvships.
With the vote of the laborites.
together with the bulk of the
unionists and a large section of
the liberals demanding more tner
petic prosecution of the war, Mr.
I.lovd George proiiablv will com
mand a working majority in the
house of commons, while a fur
ther asset will be the benevolent
neutrality even of the supixirters
of ihe late cabinet in the national
interests
possibly many jarUamentary
:.nr! ministerial traditions will be
jettisoned for Ml. i.lovd George
has a reputation for courage and
holcine-s and Is rot a rent stick
ler for tr.iilitinn Thrfor some I
surprise may appear In the dis
trl "Ution of the new offices. What
i'lreaclv Is appar-nt. however, is
that the new ministerv will not.
as wjs at first expected, be a
mere glorified war councinl of
only a fe.v nieml-rs, but a "mln
istcrv oa the old lines, but much
smaller than the Asquith admin
istration. Mow Mr. I.lovd (borge promises,
to get over the difficulty of his
own mal'ing. when he declared
that tiie premier was too occupied
to be able to preside over the war
cmaei!. is still one of the prob
lems unsolved.
The greatest Interest centers In
the personality of the new foreign
secret try. Two names are men-
LIB, IE
fRepubl .can A. P. Leased Wire ,
WASHINGTON. Dec. 7. Informa
tion gathered from many sources by
government officials conducting the
nation-wide inquiry Into the high cost
of living pointed with increasing direct
ness tonight to the conclusion that the
soaring prices of certain necessities of
life were, due. in part at least, lo the
manipulation of speculators who had
combines to force quotations upward.
Special attention is being given to
alleged price manipulation in the so
called coal corner which recently re
sulted in sending prices to a panic
level.
thing on whi'h to base his claim.
Since the double decision of Judge.
Kent on tbe manner of counting bal
lots in which the intent of the voter
is clear but the manner of expressing
it not exactly as orc'alned by cus
tom, the most prominent attorneys in
the state, both democrats and repub
lican, hold that split ballots, of which
the contesting Incumbent speaks to
feelingly, must be counted in favor of
Mr. Campbell. Republicans of outside
. counties have sent in word they had
definite Information to the effect that
nearly two thousand ballots that un
der the law could have been counted
for Campbell, had been discarded by
lemoeratic election boards. In one
case. It Is said, the board, being in
Count, was instructed iy the attorney
, general to throw out such ballots.
; It is understood also, that demo
crats of Olla county have wtrred the
administration net to risk a recount
of the ballots of that subdivision, not
only for the sake of the governor,
but for hnt of tbe democralii' party."
PRICE INIPOliTION FOUND TO
BE REASON FOR HIGH COST OF
Sub Situation Serious
WASHINGTON, Dec. 7. Germany's acceptance of responsibility for
the pinking without warning of the British liner Arabia, with the explana
tion that Tier submarine commander took the vetiel for an auxiliary war
ship, has brought ths issue over submarine warfare to a mors serious snd
clear cut basis than anything that has happened sines the threat of ths
United Ststes Istt April to break dip'omatic relation sfter the torpedoing
of the channel liner Suiiex.
Such information as the America l government now has tends to show
that ths Arabia was a passenger ihip of the Peninsula and Orient line,
paiiing through ths Mediterranean on a return voyage. Among the paa
enger was an American citizen who wa rescued.
It is assumed her that ths coniequenccs would bs an expression of
regret and an offer of reparation for any injury or danger suffered by tha
American.
The note ha been referred to President Wilson, who is considering
personally a review of recent Ger-nan submarine activities to which ths
Arabia cat come as a climax. Th i reply will be no immediate action,
the atats department first muit clear up beyond question tha exact
statue of the liner at th time of th attack.
tioned Mr. I.lovd George himself
and lird Cur.on.
Lord Northclil'f, who bus dis
avowed any Intention of entering
the cabinet. ssJd In an interview
with the Associated press this,
evening:
"I strongly urged Mr. I.lovd
George to tiike the foreign secre
tarvshlp I consider that he is
eminently fitted, particularly in
view of his knowledge of America
and his vmputhetic feeling for
the American people and Institu
tions. We are through with those
who knew little of America of for
eign conditions in general, and Mr.
Lloyd George is the only man
available, having in an eminent
decree the ni:fltties needed In
handling the foreign situation. I
am hopeful that he will see his
wav to accept in g this view."
The announcement in the court
oir-.-iilar tonlslit that he had ac
cepted the pout of prime minister
and first lord of the treasury
stHms to show that Mr. Lloyd
tieorge has no piesent Intention of
tnk.nt.' the foreign portfolio, and
this apiwrerulv leaves the field to
Lord Curzon.
ne of the most Interesting
matters still to be discussed Is the
.ttltnde of the Irish party. Mr.
Redmond now has erhaps the
greatest opportunity he. ever had
to secure a settlement of the home
rule question. The position of the
new cabin t will not be so secure
in the house of commons as to be
anil) to disregard the Irish vote:
hence the nationalists will have
an opportunity to bargain, of
which they are li'iely to lake full
udvarta t-e.
It is believed that tUe crisis will
be surmounted without the need
or fear of a general election,
which the country woiMd regard
as a great disaster In the midst
of war. when sa many electors
ars serving in the field.
LITTLETON ARRAIGNED
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
KL PASO. Tex.. Dec. 7. Jack Little
ton, recently arrested here for unlaw
fully dealing in narcotic drugs, was ar
raigned today before 1'nited Slates 1
Commissioner S. L. Kelly on the ,
charge of a drug conspiracy for which 1
he was indicted in lenver. Colo. He
waived hearing and his bond was fixed
at $2,000. which be was unable to fur
nish. The Denver case lakes pre
cedence over the local charge and he
will he taken there for trial on Decem-
l,cr 111
R. R. Crawford, assistant United
States attorney, will go to Ienver to I
assist the prosecution of Littleton and j
of Marie Willour, with whom he was ;
Jointly indicted.
Every federal agency with even a re
mote relation to the situation was
called on today to play its part In the
great machinery of investigation which
the government has put Into operation.
With the investigation in Its infancy,
officials were unwilling to predict to
night where It might lead.
Primarily the general Investigation
by the government will be confined to
foodstuffs and coal. U Is said, -but If
leads are uncovered Indicating that
other commodities, such as leather and
clothing, are affected, they wSJI be fol
lowed. Cases have been found where
families had stocked their cellars with
a supply sufficient to last from two to
three years, bought at top price,
thereby contributing ti the rise end
diminishing the available supply' for
others. The advance In the price of
beans is said to have been caused, to
some extent, by unusually large ship
ments of canned beans to Belgium by
the commission fur relief In Belgium.
Butter has advanced to a price to
which it might be normally expected to
advance, the investigation has dis
closed, but eggs are said to be unwar
rantably high.
Roughly, officials estimate the ad
vance in foodstuffs during the year at
forty-five per cent.
It. has been ascertained that the
amount of foreign gidd which has
poured into the 1'nited States since
the war, about $600,000,000 has a direct
bearing on the situation, an increase of
about 18 per cent per capita, since the
war started, also tends unmistakably,
It is claimed, toward an upward level
of prices.
Rtbbitt far Stow
AMARILLO, Tex.. Dec. 7. In an ef
fort at once to help lower the cost of
living and relieve the farmers of north
west Texas from the inroads of a bur
densome pest, Welton Winn, agent of
the state department of agriculture,
today unnounced that next week a Jack
rabbit drve will be made through the
,515 square miles of the Panhandle.
The catch Is expected fn fill 150 freight
(Continued on Page Two)
STIGJTI IS ON
Buckeye Bandits
Still At Large;
Hunt Slows Up
The Mexican bandits who robbed the
bank at Buckeye and killed Charles
Miner, have not 't been apprehended,
but one of the posses In pursuit fol
lowed so closely upon them thut they
abandoned their course north of the
Arizona canal, northwest of the city.
Investigation of the report from Mesa
that one of the robbers had been shot
by an officer dislosed the fact' that, a
Florence man had followed a suspicious-looking
Mexican south from
Mesa, had got his auto stuck in the mud
near the canal, and had to abandon the
chase.
Sheriff Hall, of Pinal county, stated
that he would have men scout the
Picacbo country today in the hope
of locating the Mexican.
A good description of the man was
secured, lie rode a big black horse
of considerable class, but rather fagged.
He packed a rifle, revolver and a belt
of cartridges. He would weigh about
180 pounds and was about f feet K
Inches tall. He wore a big straw som
brero, turned up on one side, carried
a Mexican hair ro;e, and rode a "half
breed" saddle.
Sheriff Hall stated that It was pos
sible the two Mexicans wounded in the
affray at Superior the night before
might die as a result of their hurts.
The officers are being held on a tech
nical charge.
GREEKS REPLY
TO PROTESTS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
ATHENS. Dec. 6. (via London, Dec.
") The text of the Greek reply to the
written and vert si protests of the
American, Dutch and Spunis.i ministers,
made "on humanitarian arounds,"
against the Ill-treatment of Vtnlielist
prisoners taken during the attempted
revolution, Friday and Saturday, has
been made public. Afier thanking the
neutral minister for their sentiments
of friendship for Greece which inspired
the representations In question, the re
ply says:
"The royal government frcm the first
day had in view only the re-establishment
and maintenance of order In the
trouble Friday and Saturday raused by
revolutionary elements. This was done
completely with as little damage as
possible.
"If contrary to the orders given there
was some excess of tenrlon and indig
nation on thd part of the population
and trop who saw In a moment so
tragic for the Fatherland, agitators tak
ing ad' antMge of the unhappy events of
that day to take up nrms asalnst me
cot ntry and try and overthrow the es
tablished government, this must tic
taken into consideration. Thi excite
ment was particularly aroused by the
liomliardment of the royal naiare and
the neighborhood thereof In this, an
.open city, at the very moment when an
armistice having been concluded, it
hoped eace would finally reign.
"Nevertheless, the royal government
derided to punish every person gu'lty of
committing illegal ads and exceeding
instructions and a severe investigation
will le begun to this end as mum as
acts of such nature are brought to the
attention of the rojal government.
'"In this connection the foreign min
ister considers it hi duty to recall to
your attention that by his note of No
vember 2S he warned the neutral ihjw
ers of the tragic position in which the
Greek nation was placed as a result of
the measure taken against Greece, and
of the consequence which the French
admiral's Insistence upon obtaining
Greek war martial might well have."
2O.CC0 STOLEN
LOS ANGKLF.S. Dec. 7 An emp
ty canvas money sack and a bat
were the only clues detec tives had
tonight to trace the roblwr who
stole $20,000 from a guarded express
wagon in the heart of Los Angeles
today while hundreds of persons
were passing within a short dis
tance. The articles were found In an al
ley five streets away from where
the robbery took place.
The robber threw pepper in the
eyes of an armed guard while the
gold and currency was being trans- 1
ferred to a bank, a distance of three I
blocks. - !
The police believe he was assisted
by nn accomplice with an auto
mobile. Doesn't Pay
To Fine Speeders
Judge's Opinion
fRenubllcar A. P. Leased Wire
BALTIMORK, IV". 7. After (rylng
iO.000 cases in the traffic court in
Chicago. Judge Joseph Sabith today
expressed the belief before the Safety
First Federation convention here that
fine and pcraltles are the least im
portant phase of his work.
"The man who Is fined leaves the
court room defiant." said the judge.
"He considers bltnelf squared with
the law. His penalty Is psld and he
owes nothing more to society. But
he finds a Judge who patiently and
earnestly points out to him the seri
ousness of bis offense because or lis
danger to society, his better cTt" re
sponds." In addition to a uniform truffle
code, drafted by traffic experts ft'c m
all over the country, the report of
'he street tiaffb' committee of. the
federation contained the following
recommeni'ations:
Uniformity In number plates ami
gear shllts: transparently lllumimte-1
number plMtcs: examination Into the
qualifications, menial, moral nnd phy
sical, of every applicant for u license
:.nd the permanent disqualification of
every operator twice convicted of
operating while under the influence tt
intovlcntlng liiiioraf
RUMANIANS RETREATlBRITISH PLACE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
The Rumanian army if still
falling; buck t east of Bucharest
from the Transylvanian Alps to
the Danube. On the Mold Man
west frontier and farther north
along the Pukowina border thi
Russian attacks against the
Anstro-Getman forces have failed.
Berlin says Pucharest was cap
tured with insignificant righting
and the invaders entered the town
from all shies, being received en
thusiastically by the populace and
decorated with flowers.
David Lloyd George has formal
ly accepted from Ihe king thp
post of prime minister and first
lord of ti e treasury, a fac t which
Is considered as Indicating that
h will be able speedily to form a
minii-try. The probable make-up
of the cabinet has not been an
nounced. On none of the fronts Is an
important I att'.e in progress. For
the most part the artillery winas
are doing the greater portion of
the work. Berlin reports ti at the
Bulgarians have f"rjed biCk tha
BritiKb In the Struma river Ioa1
lnnos, in Macedonia r.nd that the
Pulgarians and German-i l.a e
compelled the evacuation by V'.s
Seibs of captured po-l'.lorih near
Tmovo, in the Ceynt river sector.
West of Li:tshl; In Vulhwiia the
Teutonic nl'ies line captured
Rnssian positions. Vie-n.i re
ports that the Italians laun hed
Hvo fctile atlaiki or t e Ca'FO
frort of the Au.ro-Ha!Hn
theater.
Artillery ducD and exports ly
rr'l ilng par lc eon'J.ni'e en the
frorts In Feb I ;m Fr inge.
The Clemens snd i-'icn h are en
frveid In a solrUed c t'lt'"v tat
tle in the regl'in of hill 3u4.
An explanation of the military
activity of the Greeks has been
demanded by the British. French,
Italian and Russian ministers at
Athens according to an unolflri.il
dispatch.
How
It Wat Done
IJ iNDON.
Dec. ".Reuter's
oorrest ondent send
Amsterdam
the following official dispatch
which describes the fall of Bu
chsrest: "At 10:30 o'clock Tuesdiy
morning. Captain I ange cif tha
general staff was sent as a pur
lementaire to tbe commandant at
r.ncharet bearing n letter from
Field Marshal von Mackensen de
manding the surrender of the
fortress. A second letter notified
the commandant -that fire would
be opened unless tbe parlemen
talre returned within 24 h urs.
"Cpptaln Ijinffe returned before
THEI
FARMERS SAY COST SYSTEM IS
ONLY TRINE WHICH WILL GIVE
f Republican A. P. Leased Wire Ithe grazing land to a steak on the
CHICAGO, Iec. 7. Farmers of the table. Including a comprehensive inves
great grain states of the middle west I ligation of the big packing plants. A
and north, helievint; that 4es than a 'resolution urging the commission to un
fair share of the profits of their labor idertake tbe examination is to lit
is returned to them, took the first steps
here today to establish a cost system
for their Industry. In connection with
the National Conference on Marketing
and Farm Credits, representative grain
growers discussed variouB mean of de
termining marketing costs from the
field, through the elevators, the mills
and to the housewives' oven, with the
objects of lessening the cost to the con
t jmer and attracting a larger portion of
what the consumer pays, direct to the
producer.
Lynn J. F-razler, governor-elect of
North Dakota, was the rhlef speaker.
He told of the handicaps thai have hin
dered the shippers of his seute.
"Because of lack of storage facilities
for jiotatoes this year." he said, "grow
ls were forced to market their ota-
toe-s at once and received an average
of HO cents a bushel for potatoes that
sold on the market for $l..riO lo $1.73 a
bushel."
Fred Stout of Ashkut, 111., discussed
the e-ost of handling grain at the coun
try elevators, and o. D. Anderson, prcsT
ident of the Farmers' Cooperative Asso
ciation of South Dakota, snoke of the
farmers' views of the terminal grain
market.
The cost finding program will be con
tinued tomorrow with the possibility of
amalgamating present individual farm
ers' organizations into one for the pur-
nose of experimenting with scientific
marketing systems.
lebate on the livestoc k marketing
iroblems was continued from yester-
lay. Ixiuls D. Hall, in charge of the new
livestock Information service of theiPrHi suffrage rinendmer.t. Elihu Root,
I'nited States department of agrlcul -
lure: R S. Beach on Minnesota, sad r. Hill Chittenden of New York, pro
A. Bingham of Rockfurd. III., being the! tested against fucIi nn amendment.
chief speakers In this section. Approval
was expressed generally of a plan fori
an investigation by the federal tradel
commission of the problems attendant
on the transformation of a steer from
Wilson Dines Managers
WASHINGTON, Dec. 7. President Wilson gave a dinner at th
White House tonight in honor of Vance McCormick, chairman of tha
national democratic committee, with member of the democratic campaign
committee and of th progressive committee which aided in the presi
dent' re-election a guests. It wa a celebration of tha victory last
month.
In sddition to Mr. McCormick the diners included Homer S. Cum
mins, vie chairtnan; Representative Carter Glass, secrotary; Wilbur B.
Marsh, treasurer; Senator Walsh, western democratic manager; Henry
Morgenthau, chairman of th financi committee of the democratic nation
al committee; Gavin McNab and F. J. Heney of California, and demo
cratic and progressive leaders from many other states.
Two women, Mrs. George Bass, democrat, and Mr. Antoinette Funk,
progressive, were present a member of the campaign committee. Mr.
Wilson attended, a did the wive of most of the guest. The latter in
cluded Mr. J. A. H, Hopkins, who) husband i a progressive leader in
New Jersey. ' I
Mrs. Hopkins is chairman of ths New Jersey branch of the Congres
sional Union for Woman Suffrage. She wore a button of her organiza
tion at th dinner but before going t th Whit House she said published
report that she intended to queetion the president about his atand on
suffrage grew out of joking remark and that of course she would not do
such a thing.
the expiration of the limit, the
commander-in-chief of the Rus
sian Danube army having refused
to accept Field Marshal von
Mackensen's letter on the ground
that Bucharest wag not a fortress
but an open town. He declared
thai there existed neither armed
forts nor troops destined for its
defense and there was neither a
governor nor a commandant. Cap
tain Lange pointed out the char
acter of Bcuharest as a fortress
and said that such an evasion
would not hinder the German
operations.
"The enemy infantry offered re
sistance which ii8 quickly over
come. "From the south portions the
Danube army pressed into the city
through the girdle of forts, meet
ing with no resi.-tance.
"The troops entering the town
were received enthusiastically and
were decorated with flowers.
Field Marshal von Mackensen
drove In n motor ear to the royal
castle where he was greeted with
bouquets of flowers."
GREEKS ASKED TO EXPLAIN
Republican A. P. -(.eased Wire
ATHIONS, Dec. 6. (Via London.
Dec. 7. The Russian, Italian, French
and British ministers called In a body
j at the foreign office this afternoon and
demanded an explanation of the Greek
military activity.
The French commander. General
Sanall. Is quoted as saying that he pre
fers Greece openly hostile to an unset
tied situation.
The memliers of the Russian colony
will leave here tomorrow. Only the
Italian colony of the entente remains at
Athens.
The entente allies diplomats see no
prospect of an arrangement by the
Greek government, and it Is believed
that they will demand at least the re
establishment of allied control of the
police, post and telegraph, railways,
ports, customs and passports.
DOCTORS MEET
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
EL PASO, Tex., Dec. 7. The Medi
cal and Surgical Society of the south
west met here today in annuel ses
sion to listen to papers from, and
observe clinical work done by the
members. Dr. A. G. Shortle, presi
dent of the body, gave his annual,
address shaking on the "sun cure"
for tuberculosis and the advantages
of the desert climate In this resprct
Motion i.ictures taken from the Euro-
tean wir fronts and Illustrating the
mrgical problems confronting the , "". cue wo ....e "
military hospital, wete exhibited .1??""'"""
"tonight's session.
THE! DESERVE
adopted tomorrow
Need of a national immigration policy
that will deter immigrants from set
tling In the crowded c ities and aid them
to reach the sparsely settled sections
where their labor wili be more produc
tive to themselves and to the nation
i was expounded by Frederic C. Howe,
1'nited States
ommissumer or immi-
gnu Ion from
Eoi
is Island, N. Y.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Dec. 7. Delegates
from every section of the country
were present at the oienlng session
of the first national anti-suffragist
convention. They listened to a num
ber of addresses by women and men
deploring the seeking by women of
,lltical equality and urging that
I hey t an Is? of more and greater ser
vice to the nation In other lields.
Most of the speakers, including
Mrs. Arthur M. lode of New York,
president of the National Association
Opposed to Woman Suffrage, attacked
particularly the movement for a fed
.n n paoer read for him bv Miss Alice
i holding It contrary to the spirit of
American institutions and the sub-
jpction of the people of one state to
I the government of others.
Cardinal Gibbon sent a message
INTI-SOFFRAGISTS DEPLORE
HEN SEEKING THE BALLOT
REST TiS
ON OUR TRADE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire!
WASHINGTON, Dec. 7. NCw re
striction on American trade with Rus
sia were announced today by the Brit
ish embassy in a circular setting forth
condition to govern shipments passing
through blockade lines into Sweden,
through which couptry most American
exports to Russia are handled. Aside
from goods destined for the Russian
government, only 24 commodities can
be sent to Russia under the regulations,
and rigid conditions must lie complied
with before letters of assurance for the
shipments will be issued.
The step Is believed here to he the
outcome of a conflict in the trade pol
icies heretofore followed by Great Brit
ain, Russia and Sweden and is under
stood to have as its object the limita
tion of Russia's Imports throdgh
Sweden to necessities, iarticularly war
goods. Sweden, smarting under the?
Il ritish blockade and rationing measure.
Is said to have taken steps to retaliate
which resulted in the more stringent
regulations announced today.
The list of goods for which the Brit
ish embassy will issue letters of assur
ance to American exporters to Russia
and Finland, includes the'following for
which such assurances are given under
the present regulations: binoculars,
medical Instruments and thermometers,
sulphur tartaric and citric acids; dyes,
varnishes, photographic plates, phos
phorus, machinery except lathes, carbo
nate of ammonia, blue copiteras (sul
phate of copperas), vegetable seeds,
paraffin, oils, tar. wax. colophany
(rosin), American cotton, salt and rice.
The remaining articles on the list
have not been subject to such-regulations
before and officials are uncertain
what will lie the effect of their inclusion
In the group which may be shipped un
der letters of assurance. Most of them
are produced from raw material usually
exported from Great Britain. They are:
metals except lead, rubler, leather, cas
tor oil, graphite, Jute sacks, wool, twine,
shellac, cocoanuts, Egyptian cotton,
woolen materials and pepper.
Letters of assurance will be granted
only if the goods are consigned to the
akliebolaget transito, Stockholm, which
arranges all Swedish transit licenses.
This company must first have granted
such a license and must have complete
information as to the goods, gross and
net weight, value, the name of the
sender, the shipping line by which tbe
the name and address of the consignee
in Russia or Finland, together with the
original bill of lading and Indorsed copy.
The Swedish-American line, tne
Pwedish-Amerlea-Mexico line, and tli
Scandinavian-American line are nan-ed
fur the shipment of goods under thi.
scheme and five New York banks have
been suggested as agents and financier".
Freight must lie prepaid to the point
of discharge in Scandinavia and must
carry an agreement that if anything
interferes with its transit it may bo
stored, sent by a different route, or re
turned to the 1'nited States or one of
the allied countries, always at the ex
pense of the owners.
WOMAN NOT GUILTY
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEWARK, N. J.. Dec. 7 Mrs. Mar
garet Beulinger was acquitted today
by a jury of the murder of her hus
band, Christof Beulinger, a well. to !
coal merchant whom she shot in their
home in Caldwell, last Julv. At a
previous trial the jury disagreed.
Mrs. Beulinger declared she acted
in self defense. On the witness stand
she told of brutal treatment.
The court had charged that the
burden of proof that the shooting was
necessary to save her own life rested
upon Mrs. Beulinger. He warned the
Jurors not to be swayed bv sympathy
for a woman. The verdict was re?
turned after three hours' deliberation.
which was read, deprecating the par
ticipation of women in politics: Fred
erick Huidekaper, vice president of
the American Security league, peke
In the place of General Leonard
Wood, who was unable to attend, ami
urged tie- anti-suffraeists to work
for the cause of preparedness. Miss
Mabel Boaniman of the American
Red Cross told of the work o that
organization. Other speakers. Lnrpjd-
l ing Mrs. B. L. Robirson of Cam
bridge, Mass.. president of tne Public
Interests League, told how anti-suffragists
had assisted the work of the
Red Cross during the war In Europe.
Members of the National association
tonight attended a banquet at which
there were other addresses. The con
vention will continue through tomor
row. Before adjourning, plans to eb'
feat the proposed federal amendment
will be considered.
Opposition to woman suffrage was
niced by several speakers lit thej
first national gathering of women
opposed to equal suffrage. Th? con-
It ention was held at the call of Mr.i.
I Arthur Dodge of New York, presi
dent of the National Association Op
i posed to Woman Suffrage.
Among the speakers were Major
I General Leonard Wood and Miss
j Mabel Baardman. Cardinal Gibbons
jsent a special message and former
Senator Elihu Root had prepared a
paper ta be read.
1 "I regard 'woman's rights,' women
and the leader of the new school of
female prfjgress ns the worst enemies
jof the female sex," declared Cardinal
I Gibbon's message,
1 "The most precious, undeveloped
;ns.et of any nation is its children.
An all-wise God through the law of
nature, has committed . this precious
treasure in a special manner to"ttv
mother. Women cannot vote intel
ligently unless they give time to nn
exhausltve study of political ques
tions, without giving to the present
generation any appreciable benefit in
th" mirlfying of the ballot.
"When I deprecate female suffracre
I am pleading for the dignity .of wc-
(Continued on rage Five) .
