ft
MARKETS
mm
WEATHER
NEW YORK
Arizona Friday and
Saturday fair, colder
southeast Not ta cold
Saturday.
Average price
per for week
Dec S, S2.95.
y
Associated Press Special Leased Wire Service.
VOY. 19. NO. 157.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, FRIDAY MORNING, DECEMBER 8, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS
MORE
S
DIE AT BANDIT'S HANDS
TO HUNT THOUSANDS
OF TEXAS RABBITS.
DURING CD
HUftHUA RA D
Refugees Confirm Story of Slaughter and Plundering When
Villa Held Town One American Is Slain at Threshhold
of His Own Home and Then Hung in His Doorway
Another Is Tortured and Burned at the Stake.
BOER SUBJECT MEETS SIMILAR DEATH
AND THIRTY CHINESE ARE SLAUGHTERED
Scores of Carranza Soldiers Are Mutilated When Captured
and Over 150 Mexicans Shot Down in Cold Blood, While
Bandits Devastate Homes of Americans' and Rich Mining
Properties Owned by Them Whole Blocks Are Burned.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
EL PASO, Dec. 7. Three more names were added to the list of for
eigners who have been kilted in Me xico by bandits since the revolu
tions started.
Guillermo Snyman, son of the late General W. D. Snyman of Boer
War fame; Howard Weeks, or Howard Gray, as he was known in Mexi
co; and an American named Fitter were the fresh names added to the
. foreign death scroll. Although they Were believed to have been killed
many days ago the news of their fa te only reached the border today,
when messages and refugees told of their fate.
Young Snyman was reported io have met his death at the hands of
Villa bandits at San Pablo Melqui, Chihuahua, near Chihuahua City.
He was said to have died without knowing of his father's death recent
ly. AMERICAN HANGED IN DOORWAY
Howard Weeks, an employe of the Alvtrado Mining Company, an
American concern, was called to the door of his home near Parral while
he was eating supper with his fami ly, shot through the head by Villa
bandits and then hanged in the door way, according to information
brought to the border ttoday by Spa niards. Weeks, who went by the
name of 'Gray, was married to a Mexican woman and had five children.
AMERICAN BURNED AT STAKE
Little has been'learned of the third victim of bandits. A letter from
a Spaniard in Torreon to a ccintryman here said an American named
Foster had been horribly maltreate d and then burned to death at a
stake while his son saw him die. The murder occurred at a hacienda
near Torreon, the letter said. The man's first name, his home in the
United States and his relatives, are noi known.
AMARILLO. Tex.. Deo. 7. As
an effort at once to help lower the I
cost of living and relieve the
farmers of northwest Texas from
the inroads or a burdensome pest,
Weli'jn Winn, agent of the state
department of agriculture, today
announced that next week a jack-
rabbit drive will be made through
the 60.515 square miles of the
Panhandle. The catch Is expect-
ed to till ir.O freight cars. These
will be shipped to eastern and
northern markets for the Christ-
mas trade.
Farmers In every part of the
Panhandle are expected to join
the drive. So rapidly has the
pest multiplied in recent years
that the state has been paying a
bounty for rabbits" scalps. Boun-
ties will be claimed before the
animals taken in the drive are
shipped.
This fall the jack-rabbit was
found be a table delicacy.
Rabbit sausage which appeared
fbis week is expected to lower
the cost of living.
IPRE1R HAS
......
iiiiii i ail n n
Biff
ununiL
$,
ROBBER MAKES RICH
HAUL IN ANGEL CITY.
4c
LOS ANGELES, Dec. 7. An
ff emntv runvais monev sack and
' bat were the only clues detectives
! had lonifht to trace the robber
! who stole $.0,000 from a guarded
exprom wagon in ine heart or
l.os Angeles today while hun- j
e'reds of persons were parsing
v lili in a short distance. '
GERMANY
The article were found in an (
fclley five streets away from
where the i.bbery took place.
The robter threw pepper in the
ryes of an armed guard while
the gold and currency were be-
Ing transferred to a bank, a dis-
i tanre of three blocks.
The notice believe he was as-
i i ' siMed by an accomplice with an
I U,J r..n.. Itf :... ":'. i automobile.
Troop Movement
Alarms El Paso
But Is Harmless
Hand.' Wins Labor's Sud-!
port; Starts i Cutting Red'D ,j . D?
Tane to the Bone. ' "resident rlOTlS
BREAK WITH
OVER ARABIA CASE IS
BEL
Gravest Situation Arises Since Sussex Was Sunk, by Admit
tance of Germany That Arabia Was Sunk Without Warn
ing, While American Citizen Was Aboard Only Excuse N
Germany Has, Is That She Thought It Was Transport.
IF INVESTIGATION PROVES AMERICA RIGHT
SEVERANCE OF RELATIONS MAY BE EXPECTED
VEO TO BE NEAR
WISE MERCHANTS TO
REPLACE POLITICIANS
!
Tn'fi Wocf In Mnii"l This Wa Innont Passenger Ship," Says Germa
J Up VV eSl in May. Were Wrong anJ WiU Stand Consequences"
ermany, "We
But Every Party Except Na-i
tionalists Is. To Be Repre
sented A Small Working'
Force Is His Slogan.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
WASHINGTON". Dec. 7. President
Wilson is seriously considering mak- j
ing a trip west next spring. When
invited today by Speaker Clark to
Consequences" America.
However, Holds German Answer As Weak, and Beeins
to Suspect Faith of Germany on "Sub" Pledges.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
WASHINGTON, Dec. 7. Germany's acceotance of re-
speak before tbe School of Journalism sponsibility for the sinking without warning of the British
(By Review Leased Wire.)
of Missouri University in
Dri.Lni a..;! el.t if nn-i-i'l.l..
would like to visit the west after con- manaer iook tne vessel tor an auxiliary warship, has brought
May. the I- a.l- -l l i i i t -
he I i-uavia, wim me cAjjictuduuii mat ner suDmanne com-
LONDON. Dec. 7. David-Lloyd-! RroS8 adjourned in March and that if , the issue over submarine warfare to a more serious and clear-
Gt'orge at Buckingham Paalce tonight
he did so he would accent thp Invitfl.
(By Review Leased Wire) , ... .... Mmi
EL PASO. Dec. 7. The movement . .. ....
I of artillerj' and cavalry through a sec
tion of El Paso tonight gave rise to
a report that Villa bandits were about
to attack Juarez, but the report met
with a sharp denial from General Bell,
I who said it was merely routine "battle
1 practice."
Another rumor current tonight cre
dited General Funston with ordering
the troops to get ready to cross the
border against Villa, but General Bell
said he had received no such order.
"We are already prepared." the gen
eral added, "and all we need is tlu
order to go."
American Homes Raided i was robbed of practically its entire
Villa's bandits wreaked their ven-1 stock.
geance on American property in Chi
huahua City by looting many Ameri
can homes. carryinK oft large quantl
ties of American-owned property and
destroying what they were unable to
haul away, messages received here
late today from the Chihuahua state
capital say. '
The home of Donald B. Gillies, an
American mining operator in Chihua
hua, was looted of practicall every
thing it contained. Tbis home was
one of tbe most beautiful on Paseo
Bolevar and was robbed by Urlbe,
Villa bandit leader. Everything was
taken from the house, including the
piano, the talking machine and even
the carpets. Mr. Gillies, who has
Whole Block Burned
Almost a solid block of stores be
longing to Arabs and other foreigners
was burned on the street back of tbe
Chihuahua Cathedral, according to an
other report. The buildings in this
block were owned by Ignacio Enrique
a leading Carranza sympathizer, and
were destroyed.
150 Mexicans Slain
Government agents here received a
report today of more than 150 Mexi
cans having been executed by the Vil
la bandits but this report was not
confirmed.
30 Chinese Massacred
A delegation of American mining
men are planning to leave here next
been making bis home here, estimated week to make an investigation of con
his loss to be $10,000 tonight, having I ditions in Chihuahua City. Two agents
lost everything in the home but the ! of the Chinese government are said
to have left Juarez today for Chihua
hua City to investigate the reported
killing of at least sixty Chinese citi
zens by Villa's men.
silver which was brought to the bor
der when the family came.
Jewels Are Taken
The curio store belonging to How
ard Schneider, said to be a German ! AMERICAN 8LAIN BY
subject, was entered and quantities I VILLA LIVED IN OHIO
FARMERS TACKLE
HIGH COST OF
L
ister and first lord of tbe treasury.
This indicates that the new premier
sees his way to the formation of an
administration, and he probably was
able to submit to the king a prelimin
ary' list of some of the proposed min
isters. Picks Business Men.
Doubtless much remains to be done
in the way of the allocation of the new
posts, and so far as the house is con
cerned the personnel of the ministry
is a matter of pure speculation. But
the premier still has plenty tof time
before he has to mee J parliament Tues
day, to complete details and he will
doubtless be in a position to present
to the House of Commons his new na
tional ministry, representing all pas
ties with the possible exception of the
Nationalists, and. If I'jmmoa report is
to be trusted, comprising a strong busi
ness element
Sop" Wins Labor.
ARMIES
WELCOMED IN
cut basis than anything that has happened since the threat of
the United btates last April to break diplomatic relations after
the torpedoing of the channel liner Sussex.
American Rescued.
Such information as the American government now has
tends to show that the Arabia was a passenzer shin of the
Peninsular and Oriental Line passing through the Mediter-
j ranean on a regular voyage. Among the passengers was an
I American citizen, who was rescued.
Germany's "IP
The German note, made public today by the state de
jpartment says if official data is furnished showing that the
j vessel was an ordinary passenger steamer, "this then would
Whole Populace Rejoices and! be a case of regrettable mistake from which the German gov
Flowers are Heaped on Con- ernment would promptly draw the appropriate consequences."
querors by Bucharest Peo- It is assumed here that the consequences will be an ex
ple, So Berlin Reports. j pression of regret and an offer for reparation for damages suf-
j fered by the American on board.
The total captures of Rumanians by Ther(, DrobabIv will be no Immedi
ate action, as the state department
1
the forces of the Central Powers since j . wmm mm n I VI
the beginning of the war are reported i AY n-HnilR llAY
;wniwv iiwvii wni
Misgivings to a large extent havejto have been 100,000 men.
disappeared, mainly owing to the fact Tlle Rumanian army is still falling j
that he has been able to gain the sup- back east of Bucharest from the Tran- j
port of the labor party by an offer of ' sylvania Alps to the Danube On the j
Grainmen of West Assembled
In Chicago and Take First
Steps Against Middlemen
To Sell Direct to Customer.
two ministerial posts and three under
secretary ships.
Support From All.
With the vote of the laborltes, to
gether with tbe bulk of the Unionists
(By Review Leased Wire.)
CHICAGO, Dec. 7. Farmers of the
great grain states of the middle west
and northwest, believing that less than
a fair share of the profits of their
labor is returned to them, took the
first steps here today to establish a
cost system l'jr their industry. In con
nection with the National Conference
Moldanvian west frontier and farther
north along tbe Bukowlna border the
Russian attacks against the Austro
Germans have failed.
Berlin says Bucharest was captured
demanding more energetic prosecution
of the war, Mr. Lloyd-George probably
will command a working majority in
the House of Commons, while a furth
er asset will be the benevolent neutral
ity even of the supporters of the late
cabinet in the national interests.
Red Tape Exits.
Possibly many parliamentary and
ministerial traditions will be jettison
ADDED EFFICIENCY
TO RAILROAD MEN
and a large section of the Liberals with insignificant fighting-and the in-
vaaers entered me town ironi an siues,
being received enthusiastically by the I
populace and decorated with r.'jwers.
All Fronts Quiet.
On none of the fronts is an import
ant battle in progress. For the most
part the artillery wings are doing the
(By Review Leased Wire)
NEW YORK. Dec. 7. Experiments
with the eight hour day in the Cleve
land yards of the Nickel Plate Rail
way increased Individual efficiency of
tbe switchmen more than 10 per cent.
according to John Monitian. general ! maiider saw manv Chinese
yard master, testifying late today be-1 women and children aboard her.
;.jre the arbitration board in the con-' M, .. o-.,u
troversy between the switchmen's
first must clear up beyond question
tbe exact status of the liner at the
time of the attack.
Then it will be for tbe President to
J decide the course to be followed.
German Reply Weak
In official quarters the German ex
planation is regarded as weak and un
satisfactory, no weight being attached
to the statement that the Arabia was
painted like a transport and was fol
lowing a route usually taken by trans
ports and that the submarine corn-
but no
on Marketing and Farm Credits, repre- fore 80me 8Urprise8 may appear ln the
sentative grain growers discussed vari
disposition of the new offices. What
of curios, hats, shawls and other fin
ery taken. However, the most expen
sive Jewelry In the store was over
looked for the cheaper articles, ac-
CINCINNATI. Dec. 7. The man
murdered by Villa bandits and known
In Mexico as Howard Gray is in fact
Howard Weeks, brother of Dr. R. R.
ous means of determining marketing already , apparent. however, is that
luaia iruui me ueiu. uiruugn me eleva
tors, the mills and to the housewives'
oven with the objects of lessening tbe
cost to the consumer and attracting a
larger portion of what the consumer
enrdine to measure rereivmt Wo' . a pays aireci io lue proaucer. .r. L)nn
today by Schneider's son. j Z ' .he tatter here oday Dr ' rth, Dkota"
.... . Ing to the latter nere touay. ur-1 was the chief speaker. He told of the
Dannis and Son s store was also . Weeks said that he had not seen his , handicaps that have hindered the
looted and an automobile taken from brother for a number of years, but had shippers of his state,
the yard near the store, another mes- ' heard of him Indirectly several times j "Because of lack of storage facilities
sage siaiea. irannis ana son naa re- through a sister living in t-i raso. tie ; for potatoes this year,'
centiy received a large shipment or said that Weeks had used the name
shoes, it was said, and these were all of Gray while in Mexico for business
taken by tbe bandits. The dry goods reasons. Howard Weeks formerly
store owned by an Arabian company, (Continued on Page Seven)
greater portion of the work. Berlin 1 union and thirteen railroads.
reports that the Bulgarians have forced I The witnesses asserted, however,
back the British in. the Struma river that the "speeding up" of the men
ed, for Mr. Lloyd-George has a reputa-,' lowlands, in Macedonia and that the j during the trial was due largely to
tion for courage and boldness and is I Bulgarians and Germans have com-; weir eagerness to nave an eignt nour
not a great sticker for tradition. There- pelled the evacuation by the Serbs of day adopted permanently and he doubt-
captured positions near Trnovo, in tbe j ed ir they would have kept up their .
Cerna River sector. j pace after the eight hour day had
West of Lusk in Volhynia the Teu- i been granted. !
tonic allies have captured Russian post-1 Monihan testified that the eight '
tions. Vienna reports that the Italians ; hour day was discontinued because he J
launched two futile attacks on tne ' was ordered to stop It without any
Carso fi'jnt of the Austro-Italian thea- reason having been given. He con
tre. 'ceded an additional expense was In-
Artillery duels and exploits by raid- curred. i
ing parties continue on the fronts In I The hearing will be continued to- j
Belgium and France. The Germans ' morrow. ,
and French are engaged in a spirited ' I
artillery battle in the region of Hill
304.
War Department Orders
5767 Militiamen Home
the new ministry will not, as was at
first assumed, be a mere glorified war
council of 'only a few members, but
a ministry on the old lines, but much
smaller than the Asquith administra
tion. How Mr. Lloyd-George proposes to
get over the difficulties of his own mak
ing when he declared that the premier
was too occupied to be able tt preside
over the war council, is still of the
he said, nrohlems to he solved.
growers were forced to market their
(By Review Leased Wire.)
SAN ANTONIO. Dec.7. A total or
5,676 national guard troops now en
gaged ln border service were today
designated by General Funston to go
home. He acted under orders from
the war department to select between
5,000 and 6,000 troops for release.
. eenth Pennsylvania Infantry at El
Paso, Battery A, Utah artillery. No
gales; First Battalion California Field
Artillery, Nogales; First Battalion
Missouri Field Artillery, Laredo; Mas-
: sachusetts Ambulance Co. No. 1, El
Paso; Second Idaho Infantry, Nogales
i First Iowa Infantry and First Battal-
potatoes at once and receive an aver
age of 80 cents a bushel for potatoes
that sold on the market for $1.50 to
$1.75 a bushel."
Fred Stout of Aslium. Ills., discussed
the cost of handling grain at the coun
try elevators, and O: D. Anderson,
president of the Farmers' Co-operative
Association of South Dakota, spoke of
the farmers' views of the terminal
grain market
(Continued on Page Three)
LONDON. Dec. 7. The greatest In
terest centers in the personality of the
new foreign secretary. Two names
are mentioned Mr. Lloyd-George him
self, and Lord Curzon.
Lord Northclifl'e, who has disavow
ed any Intention of entering the cabi
net said in an interview with the As
sociated Press this evening:
"I strongly urge Mr. Lyold-Ceorge
(Continued on Page Seven)
OMAHA TROOPS GO HOME.
S- - f t it I -v m Tk r-iK I)-nl
An eXplanation of the military actlT- TT I
ity of the Greeks has been demanded n.ent, Nebraska National Guard now
by the British. French and Russian ; on bord' iM?- ewd home.
ministers at Athens,
official dispatch.
according to an
it became known here tonight.
May Cause Break
It is realized, however, that If offi
cial data finally establishes the inno
cent character of the vessel, in vew
of the Sussex note, virtually one
course of action remains open to tbe
United States and that would not be
taken until every possible opportuni
ty bad been given to prove Germa
ny's position.
Doubi German Faith
Secretary Lansing refused all com
ment today beyond the publication of
the note. The temporary quietude In
submarine operations which followed
the pledges in the Sussex case appar
ently has been dispelled and officials
are recalling the belief then announc
ed that submarine warfare Is "utterly
incompatable with the principle of
humanity, the long established and in
controvertible rights of neutrals, and
the sacred immunities of non-combatants."
. I
GERMANY WILL MAKE
MEN WORK, EVEN IF LAZY. ,
LONDON. Dec. S. The German em-;
pire, according to the Berlin paper,
has ratiiied the auxiliary service bill,
which thereby comes into force, sayi
a Renter dispatch from Amsterdam.
German Consul In S. F.
May Admit Dynamiting
number of New York troops at ion Iowa Field Artillery. Brownsville;
' Til.-...;... Pnlnmk!. Cfonttl Pn.na
Nogales and Battery A. Kansas Field
Artillery. Eagle Pass.
Pharr and McAIlen are included In
the list but it was said at headquar
ters that General O'Ryan and head
quarters staff of the New York divis
ion have not been ordered home.
However, such an order is under
stood to be under consideration.
The troops designated to leave tbe
border are as follows:
New York Ambulance Co. No. 2;
F:eld Hospital No. 2; Batallion of Sig-
CITY OF WASHINGTON
THREATENED BY "DRYS"
WASHINGTON. Dec. 7. First ef
forts of prohibition leaders in Congress
at this session are to be directed to
ward making the national capital dry
To
President Is Dinner Host
Party Men Who Ran Campaign
(By Review Leased Wire)
WASHINGTON. Dec. 7. Praise for
the men who managed his campaign
was voiced by President Wilson to
night at a dinner given by him at the
White House In honor f Vance Mc
Cormlck, chairman of the Democratic
national committee, to which were in-
nal Corps, Second Battalion Engineers tor Kenyon. of Iowa, will champion
Md headquarters of one brigade to be the measure from the Republican
selected by General O'Ryan, Eight-1 side.
The initial move will be made by 'vitcd Democratic and Progressive cam-
Senator Sbepard of Texas, and Sen-,patgn workers and their wives.
After dinner the President made a
of the
brief speech In appreciation
and others are undergoing trial in the
In turn proposed toasts tj Mr. McCor-1 advisory committee of Progressives, U. S. District Court here upton charges
(By Review Leased Wire.) .upon by the prosecution to convict
j SAN FRANCISCO. Dec. 7. Taken Bopp and his assistants, and his rela
!by surprise with unexpected conces- i tions with C. C. Crowley, fcne of the
Isions of the Bopp defense, the govern-; defendants, formed the chief theme to
' ment probably will relinquish many of day.
i its preliminary witnesses tomorrow j Crowley, a detective. Is alleged to
jand put Louis J. Smith. Us star wit-: be the go-between through whom the
' ness, on the stand. ' consulate general used Smith's dyna-
Germany's Consul General Franx : niiting activities.
Bopp, with Baron E. H. von Sclack. District Attorney Preston Introduced
Lieut George Wllhelm von Brinken, one of Ci'jwley's alleged telegrams to
Mrs. Margaret W. Cornell, his secre-
mick. Senator Walsh, western Demo
cratic manqager, and Bainbridge Colby
of New York, member of the advisory
campaign committee of Progressives.
Senator Walsh, Chairman McCor
mlck and Mr. Colby responded with
hrief uneerhes rnnemfnlntln the
President and the finance Committee ;of "nipalgn committee. Mrs. Wll-
the finance committee, officers of the of conspiracy Involving the neutrality
Democratic congressional committee ; ot the l'nit,d States,
and Bernard Baruch, of New York.
Two women, Mrs. George Bass,
Democrat and Mrs. Antooiette Funk, (
tary, sent from Tacoma to San Fran
cisco, following the Seattle barge ex
position, as follows:
The government had subpoenal 1 "Work' was gc'od. Am all fixed. No
about 250 witnesses in the alleged : connection with the big circus. It
bomb conspiracy trial, but announced j was an accident to the elephant"
today that it is now practically ready I
Progressive, were present as members j to take up the German cons'ult-gen-
and each other on the successful out
come of the campaign.
The guests included members of the
activities of the campaign leaders and ' Democratic campaign committee, tbe
son attended, as did the wives of most
of the guests. The latter included Mrs.
J. A. H. Hopkins, wbbse husband is a
Progressive leader In New Jersey.
The message was signed "C
According to Mr. Preston it proved
eral's alleged connection with the out- j so crypetlc that Mrs. Cornell had to
rages of May 1913 ln the state of telegraph tor an interpretation. It was
Washington and subsequently in Can
ada. Smith, one of the seven under
Indictment whose testimony is relied
indicated by the prosecution that this
message was intended for transmis
sion to the German consulate-generaL
