Ift Uli fttti! PlP
t .- r
"
Jaspeb, Indiana, Fbidy. Dbob 8, 1916,
No. 14.
Vol. 59.
it
Prohibition Fails In
West Virginia City
Minister Declares Youth
Are Ruined by Dives
yhy EJsio Wan Sent to Bed.
While little Elsie's elclcr ffetei
May, was entertaining her latest ao
quisition, almost dignified and gen
;teelyoung man, in the parlor Elsie
was relegated to the dining room tr
play with her doll.
This particular one, the possessoT
of a kid body and a bisque hna.1, ha8
! been somewhat ailing of late, win;;
... to the fact that its head was grad
onlOW "LSf teod
Hie Fairmont (W. Va.) Free Press pivotal eyes refused to perforrr
has to sav of Prohibition in that state: , their functions of opening ai'
Yesterday afternoon's meeting at closfcig. After considerable prob
the M. P. Temple, to consider the fog for the cause of the trouble
boot-legging situation in Fairmont Eg. e maft th e discovery that t-herf
and lay the foundation for a move- p113 c . ... . .. , ; , i
ment which, it is hoped, will wipe out was something made of it and final
violations of the Prohibition law, 1 ly succeeded m extracting a largf
drew one of the largest ahd most . ron 0f tightly curled hair. A mo
Tenresentative audiences that har, L x loi Vm-rcf inf-n ihe -nar"
gathered to consider a public question . f ftft5ten:eTl1
iVi. XXX O w wwww w.
and shouted:
"Pity sakes ! No wonder Doroth)
was sick! Losk what was in hex
stummick ! She must have swallow
ed Sister Majs rat'!" Pittsburg
Gazette.
ia this city in years.
Men and women prominent m all
-walks of life and from all sections,
citv and county officials, ministers of
practically all the Protestant churches,
Sunday school superintendents, BiWe
class leaders, women prominent in
club and social life, were present, and
all were intensely in earnest.
The feature of the meeting" was the
first-hand testimony of women and
Second Thoughts.
"It cannot be " siffhed the maid
men that boot-legging and its attend- i xespect vou highly, Mr. PI unter
ant evils ftJvV10.0 .but we are incompatible."
me: extent during the past lour J", w . ,
months. The actual work done con-! "Well, I suppose it cannot bt
sisted of the selection of two com- helped," the young man replied
- i-i lam nt noeninf iftIC 1 i 1 1
l . .
t-
'
1:
ENGLAND'S SACRED BEAST.
' DISTANCE OF THE STARS-! j Unwritto.Law .Against StiootlnEvcr
" ? f ' Hen Eating Foxes.
How Astronomers Set bout the Tac ÄiuÄ
er Measuring it. jt Oown m the country the other -
Ä iArA 'fifty there was a tillage sensation in
With the excention o a nnndrea . J. , T n j x j,;;
x , 1 ,4-'rr rtJ which I Tvis called npon to adjucu
stars at m st. . e know notnig 0i ., , 1 ,
7 T r- j-.t:-;j.,-.i oate for U:c farmers assembled in
j What th esu of this state of je parlor of the only village urn
1 thiLs ? ins owi: r l0 the fact ihai j the. don J
l . in .?flttt ' n7,0 ' Tom and Country. "One of their
we have t res Lat we are ei? i , . , , , J . r .
Jl. i. 4.1, Ä number had shot a fox which had
rection in whi- h oxtoHjel ohjeV
to t' 'r.i idea Joi,
o.-'h-.- tera h
er Iii.
iiaigi uu -w i w x j j
communicate with State Prohibition a house m winch 1 tonüiy imagined
It was to have
the
the Yost law m this section.
Enre situate j.
Öieir disU. .
ppace. Brit '
Lted. For ü
hrmdred-s of
! The reason is that
tween
r:'
1 1 A'l
thcFdtsttt'i'
tau
! the distance to j.e -f
r-sTmp.s Loo -.j lasf-wV 1 .
been d e . seC b;? -v : -V ' :
peiveen the eyes is. i' t
ßeially increased. V' 1 1 h u :: ! f- ;
efr-imeiit of this,, so.it f.VtaiH-e V
ESVexal miles may be eva!uaie(y F
still greater, distunee's f v-e üv n:
GS X. BUSHMAN AS t20MEOX30SrfHANBAVNglEO;ANDLOUOEI'd
Uglim each eye replace oy ü jiou-.
grspnic plate. 'Even thiö wo.ild U. '
3 sutticient 4or one ot t. ie nvn
communicaxe wntn olul i-i-umumuu a nuusu hi. wmtu
Commissioner Fred O. Blue and get we mrrhi be happy,
his assistance in the enforcement of h d - fcrv twi
as large as
t Jl ... .4 1- v-äy rtl rr r-r in
The stories told by oye-witnesses 0f ; orainar.v WIU1 "
lintSr selHnff TyneU toS of j which to noW nwry th cookmg
those present, and they produced a I ulensil and t-hins that n woman
porcoptible sonsaljcn; but the one big '. nntiirallv !nvs when a peddle"
i t la i !-.. r Knrm 4-sx hoc.
de an lmpassiouwi .n;t , nig. remaps i
of his race who, ne saw, fy q1Y(? me another dy or two tt
anew, this time t . -t fc n Dct impossible
I knovvledge of tr - "tt . A r
U 4. LU.lt
bv Rev. M. G. ITavlinpr, the t.--e-
young pastor of the colored Vo-lhit-
church, who ma
for the people
are being enslaved
vice, with the full
city and county oßicials and ihe e,a
nivance of white mem.
The picture presentedby iiS3&
ImSm irfwsWw than tlfey wer
when there were saloons. Then boys
. and girls could not get liquor until
they were of age, while now even
children can get it, and sex makes no
difference. Colored mothers of the
city have bleediag hearts because
their daughters are being led into vice
and their sons into drunkenness
through the open traffic in liquor and
the dives which are maintained with
out any attempt to conceal them from
the police and the peace ofikeis of the
county.
Mayor Bowen and County Prosscu-
nr Hnfrcrortv vere both nresont. The
1 ft
com or around.
"Stav, George," she said, falter-
WW Jm 'm i
. t
mayor, who sav. m a seat in tne rear
o the auchtorum, spoke irom tnrt
nlace durinc: t?e meeting, declinir
the invitation to go to the platform
where the others had stood. He ad
mitted that he knew whisky is being
sold in the city, and said that he had
done all he could to stop it. He pro
tested against the critiaism of his
failure to suppress the traffic, and
said that any one of his critics, after
three months m his place, would see
tho matter in a different light than
thev do now. He admitted that he did ,
not hone to be able to stop boot
legging as long as there are men who
are willing to ouy liquor. .
It was at this juncture that tho
Rev. Mr. Hayling gave his testimony,
and he, too, said that the opeji sale
of liquor and the debauchery of hit
people began only last spring.
Rev. Mr. Broom field followed with
a report of a visit he and some
friends made Saturday night to the)
vicinity of Quincy street on Hull
alley, where they saw many people,!
white and black, some of them white;
women, go into one of the houses, un- j
doubtodly to purchase liquor.
Publication aitthorired by the
Indiana Brewers Association.
The Enrtt 's Surfaces
The suriace ci i!u v u:i can bp
tompared n ihe u: f lurrc-l M"1. ? T
spnait, nniu ar.u rt .Kt u::i-.it i.
through, sen hum! vrm mi he
suatace bv the c ein.m. I ,r
miles in a stnji; t. in:'- 1
irurfiue tho cnrV ? pT ;
.nd hard, of n rtu !. !. i-. 1
Mistress Good pnicious, Marie, what
a mess your kitchen In in! Whatever
Lave you hvvu cloingr? Tt will take you
1 .vGCk ti elwu it. I should think.
M.uric--Y. r.uim; the youug ladies
h;ive 1hd vlown here showing me how
to boll a potato according to the cook-bK)k.
A Poser For Mummy.
1
AUhoti-rli Francis X. Bushman has long been considered the. foremost
mn. ncn rc ar s in the world his greatest ach evemerft is h.awork as,
motion Picture a.tis in i ,n stupendouV gcreenjjirpduction ; in
"Romeo" in R"le0 J Metro Pictures Cörpörätiopi fn addition to
eight pants Pfc "'f, 'isted in the direcÜoaW'theig fea
rngHe h dm'ade a stadj not only of his ow artÄBo&the classy
drama witW its tuitions, as it has been present5the stage b
&jst
o- his card -T V f aXta produced on, most borate sxle ;
under aulhoritaiive direction, and withtjie mostisJusgS-erro.-,
v;'lpd for a Shakespearian production i1, ..
VfOltt
eoly bodies vi?, or he moon.
At one and the snme.ino-.i.enl
p.phofeogrrpli of th- tt;.,i :i .: m
Bttrrotrnding stars. be tnkeii L -h ..
Jbho Cape observatory an.'l at tin
Royal observatory at Greenwich
iPlicing th'e two photograph? side )r
iide in "the stefeoscppo3e sbi!
clearly see the moon ?!i;i'.ngji
space" and may evaluate its
tance. -x ... s
prowled about among the fowls for
so many nights that fowl keeping
was becom' ig a risky business.
"The ort .lary farmer does nob
mind losin, an occasional' hen, but
reynard is a greedy beast and Iplis
for the mere pleasure of the thing,
and the hunt does not always pay
un promptly. So here was a fine
poir.t in r -rtiug etiquette to bxe
settled. 1 .o farmer had suet s?iox;
xie (iiu no. j."iiy iu
ifened to tiriraJout Iiis chest.wtK'
'pride, as if in defiance of all'the nn-
iwritten laws of British sport. v
frTow. custom from time imme
morial nas decreed that tho fox
shall be a safe from gun and trap
as ii he were sacred. Ho belongs to
the hour!s and must be allowed to
roam through the covers and farm
yards at wi11, devouring what -ma'
Lappen in his way. Custom, too,
demands that the hunt. shall pay
the damages. The hun generally
pays, though in innumerable cases
the secretary is well aware that ho
Is being swindled.
"lut this particular farmer said
he had hunted for many years him
self and had never made a claim for
WT , -V.
planets, our next ntfAWm "t hens. A year or Wo ago, to
?3 ' .,-,. lever, a fox had paid a nocturtfal
to li s towl yard ana naa.piayea
Havoc with tl ; featbered denizen.
distance on e::nh. ifik? -
UiOlUUU - -. v. v . . .
universe
crolty recommences.
The reason is I hut any. v:i!a
iruiit or
...
i o after it happened
r.,-"rd time the fox came
:f3' i nnubanc iiu-.de a most deplorable
for stereoscopic exaiiur.ation, 'a ;
w . .
.erRl observers ra.-':,,?.; TSX
"Theu
farmer wT.ote "o
of tvno farfher romnrtJ thai good has come xo mm since,
f oi-n'f. srvnrtTnn-Tl-
j oere cvn;niu v an am i xu .l - .t
m of mw .:.1ri-nt eye difr .like. Let 'em Kin yourvnens. inavs
r.m- os.Vth V in., iiilr oik what thev aru there for, and i one
" M IIM ! J 4
MABEL TALIAFERRO-
WHOSE FIRST PICTUREUTH6 "PRICE QF 'HAPPINESS WIL-L'SODM.
BE RELEASED BY METRO
Mabel Taliaferro, the beautiful and fascinatmg stage star, whtf
recently gave up a successful road tour in "The New llenrietta" to begin
work in Metro feature pictures, was not the leist bit unhappy when told
that her first Metro production would be made in the dreamy climate
of Palm Beach, Florida. Miss Taliaferro, at the head of a strong- com
pany, and working under the direction of Edwin Carewe, is now basking
in the warm sunshine of the southern winter resort, making the first
scenes in "The Trice of Happiness." This gripping photoplay was written
especially for Miss Taliaferro, and is partieularly suited to the dis
tinctive gifts she displayed in the stellar roles of "Rebeoca oi Sunny
brook Farm," "Polly of the Circus," and other successful stage produc
tions. Before returning Xorth Miss Taliaferro will make the exterior
scenes for a second production and finish the feature in a Metro studio
New York. Eolfe Photoplays, Inc., is producing- the picture.
pressure of th:
neated cer.icr r! !"
from getunc 1 i - .
as vou can ki- !
by an appropr:--
eure. The f
in vohmuk or .
of the interior i -the
earth. Tiu ,r
in the ce:;tir ' '
mediate env,r.-
thing lik' I' :
porous, liji'tt --h-earths
interior m r
the high tcii-fiat
there it disHoUe, r
irlnrsililf water ii it I it
VUV mmm
tfirough volca uh rrui'.T id .
Professor Bullock, Columbia
Wiity.
Maivjoiie (who has just been listen-
liiT tn the storv of Isoah and tue üooaj
are uo inuinmyl
V6 fpwef of Enthusiasm,
magnet rf
must fire ever' event
TV.. 1 1. .... . - in I r7i r
lull ill U7! 14? Ill C vuv "ö
Dower. Vou
villi it, toat-h tbouirnts ana acta
with it. It will transmute dross
4 into iM. drudfferv into delight.
Whnt mr;ter$ h the soul winch
lives lcsiv. vou is cold nnd selfish?
Set him d exumple! Joy ia
sunl. :ne, ätiü ie will feel it. .Every
irksome tak is n chance for power,
for the rpuliti which they bring
out are Hod's ;riftr which fit us to
enjoj- better tiia. Kasy thing?
will rou e if hav spent vout
heart blood n uuning strength
for the vorv goal of pover i th
ease wlilrh ro:r,t fr- r, trontb
Wo hi:h at tUtifi a 1 rin!e whe
nssfd t.i or imitov m. 'x e de
t t.i e .1
tronomers have r.?ceedcd in over hunt secretary ana aßjeu aor uam-
coming the di .dtv for the "a-es. The reply waa xna. cuuu
think wo mav .say 'that at pi -fit would be ndod to shortly, and
we .know its' distance' to wü, at .Cbr-.im tac seti.enont camo
thousandth, part of, its wndl ,in tho fcrm oi-a nam. Therenpen
Knowing the sunJs di.'an, w- .uej, the farmer declared war on allfosq?
that of all the pkoeU bv a wfll'and killed them ruthlessly. And
liown relotloa exi'tiT.g bctVoeu tU- this was the p int whicb puzzled the
planetarv äistw ' -fas oSirturday night.
But now fir .he fwxqd stw ' rt Jim Crawford shot a fox la at
which nr.ibi Lo u-'lrck of hou year said one of the men, and no
Band's
tne sun.
qnesti(
luccess whh the .-nu i-.as pro' , fled hunt secretary v mean tner axe a
us with a v.ow ono clishiru?, ,-.OG0 hundred who are generoiu.
tiro- critic- 'hau anv tble eye "There yon have it. Sport is
distance oi, ilu c MhTfAr iu3 -that sport and iis rules are adamant; It
know t.ic d isla nee at iich '.tho must, however, be put to the credit
ea;th travels in its orbit aW:aid the of British hunt clubs that tney
sun we can take the 'diameter of its spend millions of pounds a year in
orbit as our eye distance. Photo-: England, Wales and Ireland for the
graphs- taken at periods" six months upkeep of the sport,
apart "will represent" the stellar "Think of the hunters that aro
world as soon Urftm points the djs-,bred and sold annually, the packs
tance between whieh is akdy. best of hounds, the huntsmen, the stable
expressed- in the time it wo,uiä take people, the dozens of hange on
HhfctQjtra verse it. The time would ho.make a liviirg o4ut of ltUMYith-
bp about sixteen minutes. m 'out the hounds certain districts of
Zowev.er, even this distance, im-! England would be depopulated,
mense as it isr is, on the whole, in- Leicestersnire and the midland
adequate for obt.rr.ing a .-tereo- counties would be abnost-irnpoyer-icce
view of tho ptaps. Tt i? only isfied if a law were suddenly pvtfTin
hi qmtojeptiaiia! kases. that pho- force to make an end lo he ich
Ipgraphs oh a. large sc:rle that is, j man's pastime. Country h,use3 in
obtained bv tlie aid of big tele- nohuntmg districts mabe al-fcopes--show
anv tercoscopic ef- most for the price of a cottagepn,
feet for fixed stars. V accurate Leicestershire, whereas in the
measurement of the photos we maj Quorn and Pytchley country, a coun-
perHaps get somewhat beyond what trjr house is' a3 expensive, if not
fc can attain by simple steiecscopic1 more so, than a tontton mansion.
Inspection; but, as we said a mo- Instead of diminishing, hunting fiai.
i I ' 1 1. ...a t i . "
ment ao, astronomers nave nut esuc- ; grown m popular mvui.
ceeded in tins way inyaetermninii
B m tho. distance of more than a hun-
orea turs m an,-1 cicu uluu amw
crracpfilh and
once bn l ard
onrivcle 1 pat
) Nautilus.
!
tab
Mif o hat
o Hro fro
la. . . . )) a . a.1 a i il f t r rs mi A"rA rr .4 il A.
ONE Oh THE BIG SCENES IN THE KIS5 OP nAi fc. A btnAiiunu ncmu rnuiunnrv
OF RLSSIAN UFEjSTARRINO ETHEL BARRYMORE3SUPPORTED BY H.COOPER CUFFE
TMs is one of the many interesting scenes from "The Kiss of Hate."
the newest Metro wonderplar In which Ethel Barrymore is starred. Miss
l'arrvmore is supported by H. Cooper Cliffe and a notable cast. Tho
scenario is from the sifted pen of Mme. dc Grissac and was especially
"written for Miss Barrymore. giving her the fullest opportunity for the
cMsplav of her wonderful dramatic powers. "The Kiss of Hate is a story
ct Kvsian life, brimful of colorful romance and gripping intrigue. There
- . ores of thrilling and novel scenes and sensational situations. Alt
" . !;c production is one of the most remarkable wWch haa been
ki. r wuunm Kit?h. ons of the foremost directors now in
nimland produced the new Barr'more future, which ip . feriK is a puarantc. ,
'JmJ
Generally. ir
9- J. r
' L.3 'UUL-MUUTfttM MM
M I 1 mi
Doleful Donald Some of my bright-
it thoughts com to me when I
leep.
Thirsty G us Troubled with li
ain't you? Ntw York Mall
of its axoellerjce. . . ...
.. . rki ,,.
. 1
