6tU Library
' If
TEE PIOCME RECORD
ESTABLISHED SEPT 17, 1870.
PIOCHE, UNCOLN COUNTY, NEVADA, FRIDAY, DECMBERE 8 1016
, VOLUME XLVII; NUMBER 18
Consolidated Ma-Utah
tils
Doing
Good M
PLANT MAKJNQ EXCELLENT SHOWING ORE BEINO TREATED
COMES FROM MINE ENTIRELY HIGH GRADE ZINC ORB
SHIPMENTS NEW HEATING PLANT
WORKS SATISFACTORILY
The Consolidated Nevada-Utah
mill, ao Superintendent VanWagen
en states. Is running full time and Is
performing Its functions In a most
tatisfactory manner. The plant Is
now treating from 1ft to SO per cent
more tonnage than Us rated capac
ity -which In itself is Terr gratify
ing; while the tailings are showing
lower values than at any time In the
cast.
The ore going to the mill comes
entirely trom the mine and Is of ex
cellent grade, both aa to sine and
sUrer.
The mine Is also being operated '
with a good working force. On the
ltth level, a few days ago, the min
ers drilled Into a heavy flow of watsr;
which has prevented a continuance
of work In that part of the mine for
the present; the management fear
ing . that the ahootlnr of another
round of holes might result in bung
ing In a greater flotage than tLo
V went pumping fac titles of the com-
would handle.. The trtkliiK
-I frjfc flow of water. Mr. Van Wag
nen declares. Is not. unwelcome aa it
indicates the approach of a fissure
and, probably, more ore tonage.
At the head of the mill, hand sort
ing has been lnprogress for sometime
and from this source two tons of
high grade sine ore is being obtained
for shipment to the smelter direct.
The heating system Installed in the
mill last month seems to be entirely
adequate for present weather con
ditions. Mr. Van Wagenen reports that the
Pioche Pacific railroad Is handling
a nice tonage of ore from Jack Rab
bit, which comes from the proper
ties of the Uvada Copper company
&t Bristol.
SALOONS MUST OBEY
LAWS OF THIS STATE
Resolution Adopted at Meeting of the
Board of County Commissioners
Last Tuesday Right to Point.
It having been brought to the attention of this board, during the hear
ing on the citation Issued to Ralph Martello to show cause why his retail
liquor license should not be revoked, that the law relative to giving, sell
ing or disposing, of Intoxicating liquors to minors was being violated with
impunity, (said Information being in the form of statements without any
direct evidence being available) and It further appearing to the board that
the general impression exists that it Is lawful to sell, give or dispose, 0:
put In possession of minors, intoxicating liquors when a written order 1?
presented from the parent of the minor, or some adult person.
IT IS HEREBY RESOLVED, By the Board of County Commissioners
of Lincoln County, Nevada, in regular session assembled, that from and
after this date, whenever this Board shall receive evidence that the sale or
other disposal of intoxicating liquors in any form, to a person under the
age of twenty-one years, has been made by any retail liquor dealer In the
County of Lincoln; that this Board will forthwith revoke the license of
Din Resigns the
Penitentiary Wardens!
A Carson City dispatch to the Ga
zette of the 5th Inst., states that R.
B. Hendrichs was appotnted captain
of the state police and ex-pfflcio ward
en of the state prison this afternoon
by Gov. Boyle. Henrlchs accepted
the trust and will take charge at the
prison tomorrow.
The appointment of Henrlchs did
not come as a surprise. He went to
Carson this morning and shortly
after his departure the rumor was
current that he had been offered the
position' vacated by Dickerson.
Others prominently mentioned as
having a chance for the appointment
ere Joe Harris, sheriff of Elko coun
ty; Charles L. Slavin, sheriff of Nye
county, and A. A. Burke, who was
succeeded as captain of the state
police by Dickerson.
Lifelong friend of Boyle
Henrlchs has been a lifelong
friend of Gov. Boyle and they were
raised together on the Comatock.
He served two years as sheriff of
UVADA COPPER COMPANY Those in attendance at the wed-
SHJPPINa MUCH ORE ding were, besides Governor Oddie
- I and his bride, Mrs. Mabelle Goodwin
During the month of November of Los Angeles. Mrs. Fred Siebert of
the Uvada Copper company shipped
38 cars of ore from Us properties at
Bristol. The ore is said to have been
of a higher grade than Usual, which
would Indicate that the company is
getting along on a good paying baa
Is. FORMER GOVERNOR ODDIE
MARRIED IN CARSON
One of the surprising" i'fteiari events
of the year occurred yesterday, when
former-Governor Tasker L. Oddle
waa married to Mrs. Daisy MacKel
gan of Los Angeles at the residence
of Chief Justice and Mrs. Frank Nor
eross In this city. The time of the
aiarrtage, which had been expected
for some little time was made known
to only a few of the. governor's per
sonal friends. The wedding cere
mony was performed by Justice Nor
cross, while George T. Mills acted as
best man. The bride was attended
by her sister, Mrs. Mabelle Goodwin
of Los Angeles. After the wedding
ceremony Rev. L. B. Thomas pro
nounced a most beautiful and touch
ing blessing on the married couple.
Governor Oddle has but recently re
turned from the east, having ben in
New York for some time financing a
copper property In which he is In
terested. Wednesday night the bride
to-be, with her sister, arrived in Re
no from Lee Angelee. Yesterday the
interested parties, accompanied by
friends and relatives, motored to
; Carson and proceeded to the Nor
cross home.
. At 1:80 p. m. the party, consist
ing ef Mr. and Mrs. T. L. Oddie, Mrs.
Wajrtelle Goodwin and Mrs. Fred
Btebert, amid the congratulations of
the guest, left In their auto on their
honeymoon trip to Reno and thence
to California. Upon their return Mr.
and Mrs. Oddle will take up their
resldsnee in Carson or Reno, more
likely In the former place, aa Mrs.
Oddle Is very much Inclined toward
making Carson their home.
The wedding was a very pretty
though simple affair, both bride and
groom being attired In their trav
eling suits. Mrs. Oddie is well
known In Reno, having resided there
(or some time, and Is the daughter
of Mrs. C. A. Randall, a noted phil
anthropic and social worker of Los
Angeles, tad the founder of the
George Junior Society ot Southern
Cal Everybody In Nevada knows
genial, wholesouted Governor Oddle;
he Is cure of the big men of the state,
having made and lost fortunes, but
never at any time lost that sunny dis
position which of Itself Is one ot the
greatest assets any man can have
Many congratulatory .telegrams
were received by the groom and bride
hefore their departure, and Carson
end Its citliens, -with whom Oovern-
ro Oddle has been so long Identified,
tender their hearty congratulations
to the estimable and charming bride
well as to himself.
Reno, Mr. and Mrs. George T. Mills,
Justice and Mrs. Norcross, Charles
Norcross, Miss Adele Norcross, Mr.
Bender, Rev. and Mrs. L. B. Thomas,
Mr. and Mrs. Wils Brougher, E. D.
Vanderlieth, Miss Emma Vanderlieth
Mr. and Mrs. E. B. Yerrlngton, Mrs.
Frances Cogswell, Mr. and Mrs. W.
Kearney, Mr. and Mrs. Dan E. Mor
ton, Mr. and Mrs. F, Wildes, Misses
Belle, Jane and Ada Torreyson, Mr.
and Mrs. A. M. Ardery, Mr. and Mrs.
George Brodlgan, Mr. and Mrs. P. B.
Ellis, J. P. Woodbury and Miss Clara
Woodbury. rCarson Appeal.
CALIENTE MAN LEAVES
MANY BILLS UNPAID
such retail liquor dealer so offending, and the fact that an order may have
been presented or that procurement of the intoxicating liquor may have storey county, and In 1915 was ap
been for a parr nt or other adult person will not be considered as a defense; Phted county commissioner ot
Washoe county to fill a vacancy
and it la further rso;ved teat upon the presentation of evidence to this caused by the death of w g Dab.
Board that any retail liquor dealer is allowing person or persons under the ney.
age of 21 years to frequent their places of business, that the license of any
dealer so offending will be forthwith revoked; and that a repetition of
either of the offences above named will be considered by this Board as suf
flcent cause to hereafter deny to any such offender a retail liquor license.
COMMISSIONERS MEET
IN REGULAR SESSION
F. H. Llghtner, who conducted a
saloon business in Caliente for some
time, Is alleged to have taken his
departure for a point unknown
leaving a goodly number of unpaid
bills. His wife followed a day later.
Llghtner conducted a saloon in the
building formerly known as the Ken
tucky bar. He Is said to have lost
considerable money lately at cards.
BACHELOR PETE DELMUE
IN LIST OF BENEDICTS
The county commissioners met In
tegular session last Tuesday, all be
ing present except Commissioner
John W. Wedge, who was detained
on account ot the serious llness of
a member of his family. . N; v'
The usual routine of auditing hills
was gone through after which the
matter of revokatlon oi the Martello
saloon license came up for consider
ation. Mr. Martello had been noti
ced to appear and show cause why
his license should not bo revoked,
he having been charged with tho
sale of intoxicants to small boys on
the night of the Carmau store rob
bery recently. The dlstr.c attarney.
W. E. Orr, Instituted aa tuvestiiruti-m
at the charge and summoned Er
nest Lynch, Frank Wilcox, Qulncy
Austin and Bob Turner, as wit
nesses. The Lynch and Turner boys
testified that the saloon man had sold
beer to them on the night mentioned
while the testimony of the other two
boys was corroborative. The case
was handled on the part ot Martello
Pete Delmue has Joined the band
of benedicts. Those of Pete's friends
who had claimed that the well known
rancher and livestock man would
always be a confirmed bachelor, have
missed their guess. For Pete was
united in marriage at Elko on
Thanksgiving day to Miss Caroline
Phelps, a charming Salt Lake girl.
Mr. and Mrs. Delmue arrived here
last Monday and received the con
gratulations of a host of friends. The
bridal couple made the trip overland
from Elko. They have been spend
ing their honeymoon at tho Delmue
ranch.
by Attorney A. L. Scott. Martello
was placed on the witness stand and
stated that he had no knowledge of
having sold beer to the boys; how
ever, he aid sell them some soda
He was re-elected aa long term
commissioner last month.
Why Did Dickerson Resign?
Just what brought about the res
ignation of Dickerson has not been
made public. Several different vers
ions of the affair have been current
on the streets since his resignation
was announced yesterday. The gov
ernor, who admits that he knows
what the causes were," has refused
to discuss the matter and up to the
water. He also said that he had sold present time uicicerson nas maintain
intovtc&nta to bova unon other oc- ed Silence
lt v.. , j r
vsaiuiiB, qui UU17 uyuu uruera iruiu 1
tnelr parents. - The commissioners. The resignation of D. S. Dicker
however, believed the case to be suf- son ' aa captain of ' the state police
ficently strong for action of some sort
and an order was entered revoking
the license of the saloon man for a
period of two weeks. He will open
his place again on the 20th Inst.
The matter of fixing the amounts
of the bonds of the Incoming county
officers came up for consideration.
These bonds range from $2,000 to
$40,000.
An order was entered authorizing
the clerk to advertise for bids for the
$60,000 road and bridge bonds. The
advertisement appears In this issue
of the Record and contains the de
tailed information as to the manner
in which the bonds will be disposed
of as well as the maner of redemp
tion. The board will meet in extra
session on the 8th of next month.
and warden of the state prison was
handed to Gov. Boyle at 2:15
o'clock this afternoon. It was ac
ccepted Immediately. Gov. Boyle
stated this afternoon that he al
ready had tendered an appointment
to Dlckerson's probable successor,
but preferred not to make any an
nouncement until it had been form
ally accepted, says the Reno Gazette.
Gov. Boyle who was in Reno yes
terday and departed this morning
for the capital, admitted just before
leaving that Dickerson's resignation
would not come as a surprise to him.
The governor said that he would not
be surprised to find the resignation
In the office when he reached there
today.
When asked about the pending
change in the administration of the
affairs of the state police and pris
on the governor replied that while
he was aware of the causes that
probably will bring the resignation
he was not at liberty to discuss the
matter.
"In any event," said the governor.
"the resignation will be purely voluntary."
Dickerson was appointed warden fo
the prison during the administration
of Tasker L. Oddle as governor. He
succeeded W. J. Cowing, who was
appointed superintendent ot the or
phans' home. The warden has been
one of the most prominent figures
In the political history ot the state.
For several years he was the editor
of the Ely Expositor and was elect
ed lieutenant-governor In 1906. On
the death of Gov. Sparks he became,
under the law, acting governor.
Nominated by the Democrats In
1910 he was defeated by Tasker L.
Oddle, the Republican candidate. He
was appointed warden by the board
ot prison commissioners in "1913 and
in 1915 was made superintendent of
the state police and ex-offlcio warden
by Gov. Boyle. ,
Who will be Dlckerson's successor,
Is a matter that Is causing consider
able speculation.- Reno friends of
A' A. BurkeT former superintendent
of the state police, assert that he
will land the appointment.
It was rumored in Carson tills
afternoon that Sheriff Slavln. de
feated for re-election by the Social
ist candidate, had been tendered the
appointment by Gov. Boyle.
DRY PETITION IN
VEGAS SIGNED LIBERALLY
PIOCHE COUPLE WED
Raymond Welland and Thelma Pew
Married In Los Angeles Brides
Mother Dies After Long Illness
A private letter received from Mrs.
Mary Welland, now a resident of Los
Angeles, containing the information
that her son, Raymond, was unltod
in marriage on November 29th to
Miss Thelma Pew, a former charming
Pioche lass. The bridal pair is ex
pected to arrive In Pioche today.
Mrs. Weland's letter also contain
ed the sad news of the death of the
bride's mother, which occurred in
Los Angeles last Saturday night
after a siege of Illness continuing
through many months. Mrs. Pew's
funeral was held In Los Angeles last
Monday.
Dr. Tinges, who served as the rail
road company physician at Caliente
for a number ot years, departed
few days ago for Kansas City.
Prohibition petitions have been
sweeping over the entire state the
past two weeks. Las Vegas and
Clark county people have been sign
ing them rapidly so that there are
now on a half a docen or ao separate
petitions a total of between 100 and
500 names, or twice as many as are
required to make the petitions eli
gible for filing in Carson City, 10 per
cent of the registration being the re
quirement.
The signing of the petitions In this
city was notable because of the large
numberot of men who signed, lnclud
ing a great many who more or less
indulge in liquor.
Three of the petitions carried
total ot 350 names, all secured in
Las Vegas. One other petition in
the city has not been reported. An
other petition circulated in the north
ern end of the county by Newell Lea-
vitt has not been returned and will
swell the total. A third petition
taken to Goodsprings will bring the
total up probably to nearly 500. The
petitions In Las Vegas were circulat
ed by Mrs. I. C. Johnson. Mrs. C. P.
Squires, W. H. Harkins and others.
According to the circulators, a
great many property owners signed
the petitions, including probably all
the heaviest owners of property.
Two of the petitions have all ready
been sent to Carson City. It is re
quired that they be filed within 30
days before the legislature meets in
the early part of January.
Frank Williams and E. W. Grif
fith, asembleymen, are both expected
to support the prohibition law In
the legislature, both for state-wide
prohibition by statute or to provide
for a state-wide vote two years from
now. Clark County Review.
fault Is said to have been his weak
ness for gambling and he Is said to
have threatened suicide before as a
result of his losses at a game in Las
Vegas. After shooting himself he
Is reported to have made the remark.
"I thought I was some gambler, and
I was as long as my money lasted."
His wife Is but one more added to
rhe long list of tho.va who have gonj
down to death as victims of the lust
of gambling since the present law
was passed by the ntat.e 'eglslatarc
Las Vegas Age.
NEXT LEGISLATURE
f t .nmr a Tircmnwm v
known to be decidedly opposed to
what are termed the liberal measur-r
es and, as the liberals will doubt
less control the lower house, It does
not seem reasonable to assume that
they will choose for speaker a mem
ber of the opposition. It seems at
this time that the fight for the speak
ership will rest between Coryell, of
Elko, and Hardy, of Humboldt, with
a possibility of putting Luce, of Nye,
into a succesful position. Nevada
News Letter. . ' n
"DRY" PETITIONS ARE
FORWARDED TO CARSON
'LIBERAL"
CONDUCTOR LOSES
MONEY AND SUICIDES
At Caliente, about
Thankgiving morning.
Tom Payne came to his caboose af
ter spending most ot the night at
the gambling table. He roused his
brakeman, Bob Pettlbone, asking If
he waa awake. Receiving an affirm
ative reply, Payne disrobed and got
Into his bunk. Shortly thereafter,
Pettibone heard a shot. He got out
ot bed and found Payne in his bunk
with a bullet hole over his heart
Arrangements were quickly made
by brakemen Bob Pettlbone and B
The twenty-eighth session of the
Nevada legislature will convene in
Carson City on the third Monday in
January, or on Monday, the fifteenth
day of the month. As compared with
4 o'clock previous sessions, the number of leg-
Conductor lslators will be materially decreased,
this as a result of the workings of
the 1915 re-apportlonment act. As
against 53 members going to make
up the assembly, there will be 37 In
the 1917 assembly, and in the senate
17 wlU sit where previously 22 was
the number
The "dry" petitions circulated by
F. W. Dickie In Pioche last week
were forwarded to Carson City last
Saturday. The Pioche petition con
tained a total of 115 names; 65 of
the signers being women voters and
the remaining. 50 male voters.
It is estimated that about 400
signed these petitions in Lincoln
county. ;; '
I. O. O. F. Election
At the regular meeting of Pioche
Lodge No 23, I. O. O. F., last Tues
day, Fred Francis was elected noble
The contest for the speakership Ch&a. Roeden, treasurer, and A. A.
ChasRoeden, treasurer,
promises to wax warm as the day
for organization approaches. Thus
far the avowed candidates are R. M.
Hardy, of Lovelock; former Sena
tor H. H. Coryell, of Wells; Frank
F. Draper to bring the Injured man wllUam8i former assemblyman and
to this citv by special train. Here
he received the attention ot Dr. Hew
etson and was made as com
fortable as possible. Owing
to the nature of the wound
Payne was taken to the Good Sa
maritan hocpital in Los Angeles
Thursday night on number one. It
was reported that he had a possible
chance for recovery, but death came
at 7:30 Friday evening.
Tom Payne was very well known
In this city having worked out ot
here for the past six or seven years.
With his wife he resided in one of
the Woodard apartments. His worst
and A. A.
Carman, secretary. The installa
tion of the new officers will occur at
the first regular meeting in January
ip
Dawson Case Next Week
regent ot the state university, of
Goodsprings, Clark county, and Dr.
I. Alexander, of Ely. The name of
Ben Luce, prominent mining man of
Tonopah, haa also been mentioned
for the place. In view of the fact
that ' the coming legislature will
doubtless be . brought face to face
with Initiative petitions involving in
each instance, an anti-liberal solu
tion of various social problems. It
la more than likely that Frank Wil
liams, though an experienced ana
an active and intelligent legislator,
will find his fight for the speaker
ship a hopeless one. Williams is
A session of the district court ha9
been called for next"week, the 12th
inst, when about forty trial jurymen
will report for duty. They have been
called at this time to sit in Judgement
upon the Dawson murder case, which
is set for trial on the date stated.
Leo. A. McNamee is expected to
arrive in the city in a few days trom
Las Vegas. He is the attorney for
the defendant in the Dawson murder
case. i . " :
"'
Judge Horsey returned last Tues
day from Las Vegas where he held
a session of the district court.
