THE TENS GA E E
.Ga te Pbishig Companmy, L'a. Official Paper of the Parish T eard and Fifth Louisiana Levee Distriet. $t.. P Amm
NIEW SERIES.VOL. XXVI ST. JOSEPH, A, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1916.' NUXBU 10
Smeihla• n mmg ,n•mmm.. . . .. . . .. . . • . . . . ... ., ii i ii ilnl • i ii n nn n n ,n m n mini m n m m nminnma m us ,,mH i n ,,, , g e. ulmpd wib, ,,.-.
SIBEtSSIONAL CARDS
D. L. A. MURDOCK
Bt. Joep, I.
SVhyen m d W rgmn
Oee .m Plak Read.
SPhise tib1 semeee tS.
R.a s. >. E N .. CLA MisrK. L
1 º tYIra AND TRIG?
0.1 M De ntist" Ad.m
" a L J..m.ph, L.munma
am o, Bmak Bldg., up tar..
GQ H. GCINTON
Attorney-At-Law
W. JOSEPH, LA.
Dt praetee na East Carronl, Madsem,
'ea, Conooridta and the Supremo
ySr reoassu Courts.
DL- GEORGE N. CLAPK
dOfice Phone No. 2.
Resldence Phone Ne. 1t
IInW LLTON, - - LOUISIANA
THOMAS M. WADE, JR.
Attorney-st-Law
wnll practice in Tenawe and adjot_
Parhe.s, the Supreme Court .4
State and the Federal Court
negotiated on real estate
1. JOSEPH, - - LOUISIANA.
AiATCHEZ CONFECTIONERY
CoCfectiona and Sweete
Of All Klnds.
CANDIES, CAKES, ICE CREAM.
WE 8OLICIT
WEDD1NG AND PARTY
ORDERS
: Or-estarant Is now opes and
srvice is unexcelled.
NATCHEZ CONFECTIONERY.
FHATCHEZ, - MISSISSIPP,L
ITR. "SENATOR CARDILL"
GECO. PRINCE, Master
SO. L WILDS. Quea
r. Reular Tri-Wekly
dATCHE 7e . URG
r Leaves Natches Sundays. Tuasday,
Smd Thuradays at 12 nooa.
SLeave Vlcksburg Mondays, Wed
I edays anad .ridays at noo, r e
.earival 61 espes tralya.
J. U. Lilly. M1. M. Jo. ph VhVitaksr. -. 1.
o. "'f ne 70 Phone 71
-DRS.- LILLY & WHITAKER
Physicians and Surgeons
S T. JOSEPII. LOUISIANA
Office, Bank Building, Upstairs
Phone 34-J.
A. J. KISNER, M. D.
Specialist
Eye, Ear, Nose and Throat
GLASSES FITTEDI)
S (Suce~sn r to It. C(. French)
* 02i ' lMAIN STREET
:Natchez, - - Mississippi
S O. M. FOWLER
Surveyor
312 AIII.1G(lTON AVE.
SNatchez, - Mississippi
PIIONE NO. N2
.ipuhIblic, and will h.e lad to answer
tllh, by mail or wire.
''hos M W:cli. Jr. 'rcshlient.
THE TENSAS ABSTRACT CO.
(Inc(o rporae (,d)
SIT. JOSEPH, LOI ISIANA
. Complete and corr,ct Abstracts o
T'tle of all Ttnyas I i ~ a vtds, ital,
from r c~'rdti of I n, I .Itate. StI: .
and Pariah. and v(.rrtl.d with urigina
Lastrunwa'
Good hard
American dol
otlars gRrow on the I
advertising tree.
THIS PAPER GFTS 4A. RESI:ULTS
Sale If you ied
to h..e = ....
Bills jot
PRINTED
Wearefixedfor
o*t work d thi
in double-quick time.
I
low MoneyWs d
residenfia Ca
Both Democratic and
Republican parties spent 
nearly $2,000,000 each
for expenses:: No longer
able to gouge corpora
tions, both sides appealed
directly to the people for
huge funds and succeeded
,i '
r -' .,.4'-,.
I. ,; ý.
: S t 3 ". . .f. . , .4, .
s .. - Crnelu.Bba
,`ý `'ý%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eu "t:;` :;, i ýl:,. +";' - ""fýýf"."i y,,.a- `";, eulican Treasurer
} '" a"ye =y y ' ''r ....... ...Ljý .
_ . ý " _ r_ fr em . c L' `S f+ _3 . -" . . _ _ . ," +" 'ý . ý . - _ I !
0'l +
-I ., pLitC :
fwmnce Commitee
W\V" that it ill setttl'd1 for another
four y.:tr.. you lIn:y he intereteid to
knl,\\" h,\\w the linqy \:is :ra ied to
'in"Illl.t tlit \\or l's greatest p ,lit ': l
;htw\. Well. here is thil whole tory
w\itlh every thin, eX l''I -- ,ret
pIa "aIges, tf:untily ghots, ty]I ry. in
tritpla . lights, shll:l,\\ws. tr:l.,loors
t4 :bir the rest of tli stage prpetrty
ais tot thy al writer in the New York Suln:
Presidential e.unptains lost n realt de:l of
money. The Jt b of gettini thi tlt l t ,u y they call
raising the r\ina.. Whlnll t.he amount rellirll ist
b$twt eerln .1. .(itxi)r and t 2.40' LI w lne r ':lit see
that the II tlit.l of trelsurler of a nlltilonal eonlllit
tee is no sineure.
It \Ii taed publicly the other d:ly Iby Henry
fnInlml.'. 'mlelllnltte.". \Ias ai sort of finlmlncial 'velr
lord of this .nt of) the oent for the D7n. rnt<.
that thel irre.l n i, it, l lrinin lllll of D niltoelt rantia
nrwls this ,,:tr h:b I.e ,n PIth ed at $1..($1).000. Four
yrears a11o it s\\tts t,1s. Irf14re.
The lRepuhlicans did not llmake l.ulli their
own tetimate of x en.s- \\'hen tl the ieupig
was in it ilfalncy thl y ticuri l it out ur s Ilnbol:t
$1ti. 4Ii.< lN. loiter the :mount wasl ralised to $1.
lAs).4too .\I ie it b still ltelr l nthering of Ite
pu lie to a, t el fiisn heis qll(sti i eon rtlain Cntle
men of irentt politiea'l ixlerienc', inf.rlnmed] yvoting
Mr. Illio tlhbt the high cost of 'nnip:rlgns wouhl
probably heake it nee-ry tlis year o to spendl
close to 2rt(M),WM)i hefore .Noveamber 7.
The lreasons Phy It opl ts moret now to run a
fanllaiun is belause everything is ho righter. The
cost of plrinting hans tripled, for one thng, canm
paign butltons cost tlwice usi ntch, railroad f'res
are higher. And so It g ioes.
When Iot thRepublicans were looking around for
somtene to rnise tihe wind this y'a:r their eyes
fell upon young Ir. Bihss, for it good reason.
His father was the Republian trleasurer in three
national cnampligns. After sHie histl.c" ' Mr.
Bliss took thl e ob. in which he has ever since
displayed theneone quality considered it prerequi
site to a ucc tessful gtepub licenn trolsurcr-tmoa -
Nobnody but the aempaign managers the selves
v member had much of r. . Thiss around natBlissonal
The dqchrters. I ls offieroht ot was on a d-or below
he charmn's. one trieople who ot off there by miis
take thought they had wofd into the ofmmittee
f a plan p-to-date mern ntile0 subscorportion. There
were many clerk, many areturn hang machines adlittle
many typewriters.
It was fromn these offices, where scarce a foot
honorall was heard. that Treasurer edd liss raked the
ountr00 by for Republican money not only n the
formu of large subscriptions when he could get
them, but also in the form of $10 subscriptions
to what he called his sustaining membership fund.
The contributor to this got a nice little certificate
showing that he had been enrolled as a sustain
ing member of the G. O. P. This was Mr. Bliss'
popular-subscription plan.
The scheme 'Mr. Bliss brought out was a de
• elopment of one tried successfully by William
'Barnes when he was head of the state committee,
This plan was to invite $10 subscriptions to a
special fund and in return hand out some little
honorarium. dIr. Barnes succeeded in raining
$50,000 by this plan in the state of New York
formedll illn every twnol in the coIuntry. These
cotminittee-, did the work of collecting, the .10
suhscriptions. To got thee', in littees M:.
Bliss< made up the hi..'st mailing list ewer seen.
II, correspondld with ,every state lhi:iirnan and
through this., eficihs glt the cotlnt." chairmen
tee draw up lits of possible cntrilutrs. W'hen
thel lists \were tlurnedll In :appellls \were Innle direct
to tlhose on the lists. The result is that shortly
btfore ethtleton Mr. :li.ss a\-s getting frequently
as much as x-1.i010 in a single thO"'s mall.
Of coiurse. under this ),:tin contrihutilons were
not limlited to 910. nor were contrihlltions of a
smaller :lllnilllt spurned. Al! were welcomed, but
it requirdl 10 at least to, I,·cme fnrolled as a
stitiwnining t ie dprer.
r h+teved r nity have been the suve.ss achieved
by Mr. IBliss. there were per"1son1 :ariound Demo
'ratic hliadqutllrt.s In Now Yolrk, it around the
corner from the Repiuhlnn slhop, nl h wetre will
ing to het that Mir. Marsh wouhl lut Mr. Bliss
ttlo fr:izzle in coll oiectin, llney from the real
"petiul.s" (Out in Town. Mir. Marsh'si home state,
he Ilhs a record of being one of the greatest
lllmony-ralisers thve r lseein.
Thet Mnrsh pin,n soon In fuill swlne, was noth
ing more thai:in the egood old "every-inember-can
varss" schemell which thet chlurches out In Iowa re
sort to g hn theey are failling behind In current
expenses or want to nake a bonfire of the mort
gag'. Mairsh lind his otllg mrien, some of them
church workers. Ielieviel that if it coruld he
worked successfully for a church it counll be
tworkedl n thle c'ouintry as a whole for tile Demo
ratit, prarrty.
An ressenttial feature of the revery.-llindemler-can
rvass plrrin Is treami' work. Anyone rho has ever
been waiteld upolnl with a rquslit to isubscrle to
I church full to hurn the raortgtage klnow that
not ani peronl tll two do the visiting. ('onfront
ed thus by supelllrior numbllhers the prospect gener
ally capitulates. To r.nize such teamsl in every
tiown nd hamlet of thee United t ltes was the
task wvhich Marsh il n i I owa hustlers set
theinselwes to dlo. This i tlhe wnly thlli' i it:
The mle of a good lDemllocrat n every town
was first setured. Then a commlunilcation was sent
to him asking hinl to forward at once to heand
quarters the namlles of six or eight men In the
town who would feel It inl honol or t he en o -as
an uxinllliry finance committee of thh e r-Democratic
naltional committee, designating one wian oin the
list to he appointed chairman.
By return mail eanch maln so named got his
credential. a little card hearing the pictures of
Wilson and Ma:rshall, and announcing that the
Demonratic national committee had been pleased
to appoint him a member of its finance commit
tee. With this card went a personal letter from
Treasurer Marsh calculated to make the new
member of the Democratic finance committee get
busy. Here, for example, is one paragraph from
MIr. Marsh's letter, which as a whole sounds like
the follow-up campaign of a man selling patent
clothespins:
"I wish I might visit with youi face to face and
Impress you. with the tremendous importance of
this work. To my mind It Is far reaching. We
are absolutely dependent upon it for the money
to carry on the campaign; moreover, It hi im
perative, because by having the citizen who loves
his country finance the campaign we are keeplag
the government absolutely uninfluenced by per
suons who have ulterior motives. Through you
and the other party leaders I plan to make a
Ipersonal solicitation of everyone who can afford
to give and who filts an entihusiastle Interest
in the re-election of President Wilson. This is a
campaign for the people and it must he paid for
by the people.
"Every patriotic and loyal person ought to
give to tUe point where it really mea:ns some
thin: of a s:acriflce to him. To one this might
mnea n a Ihoslll/ntad dolilnrs or more; to ainother. it
n:ight mean ".?, or .87 or a dollar. This is the
spirit of git'n which I hope you will inspire. I
want to know tile lnnlle's and amount each gives
andl will l:,ep a permarehnt card index record of
this. I will classlfy cities by population andt
mlake a colliparaltive record of the amount given
by each. I feel cert:in you will see to it that
your city is well up in this roll of honor."
Itnt thel real delils of Mr. Marsh's every-mem
her-canvass slheeme were explained in still an
other comminunration from national headquarters,
iprinteud on pink pl'eer. It was entitled "How to
,'o It." and is in Mr. Marsh's best style. Here is
what it said:
"Sýuccess deipends upon team work and upon
getting Into the came right away. To this end
you andi each of the other memhers of your com
mitte'e are urged to adopt the following plan and
stick elosily to it:
"1. On the day you receive this letter make a
list of every person you know. he he Democrat,
Repblllicnn. 'r~ress lve or Tndependent-'- very
forwyard-looking moan and woman whom you know
or believe to le intrvtcstd in the re-election of
Woodrow \Vilson-and set opposite his name the
anmount you believe he can afford to give.
"2. have vyour committee meet at once, com
pare notes. and together prepare a complete list
of every possible contributor with the amount
your committee estimates- he should give.
"3. Transmit Immediately to me personally a
conservative estimate of the amount your com
mlttee hbelieves we may count utmn receiving
through your efforts. We need this estimate at
once; please see that it is mailed within three
days after you receive this letter.
"4. Divide your committee into teams of two
and three to canvass personally and collect this
money. You can work more effectively in pairs
than singly, for it is harder for a fellow to say
'No' to a committee of his neighbors than to one
person.
"5. Apportion your list of prospective contrib
uitors anion your subtlommittees and make it the
lusiness of your committee to call upon each
one of these prosplects in person. Do not let this
he hit-or-miss work, but do It systematically, and
do it without delay."
As fast as these committees got any money they
sent It directly to Treasurer Marsh. No matter
how Imall his contribution each contributor re
celved an engraved receipt and his name went on
Mr. Marsh's card index. as a result of which
honor he will probably get another appeal four
years from now.
Shorty before election. Mr. Marsh invited some
of his doubting friends Into his office to see what
these committees were doing. Piled high on his
desk was the day's mall from these finance com
mittees. Each letter Inclosed either a rheck of
hbrd pinned to It real money.
Some chairmen could hardly write le.Tbly, but
attached to each letter there was the list In each -
cute of the people who had contributed the
at mounts, running from 25 cents to $500. In one
day's mail the checks and cash contributions, Mr.
Marsh said, amounted to more than $20,000. In
fact, the1 average day's receipts during part of
October were about $15,000.
EDISON'S y'
Lhe1 r ST cYLT CANlanr-HORN ! L U
PHONOGRAPH
uqUM"P wrr.
¶Te Diamod Repreodar and the Blue Aberl Rsed '
no - Else mbml A se ard Is gseleoaf ly a destsu .
Whan OWp4 wtth the Udlasm Diamond NReptdeer the
amd wertmes et the eisminal mue ae faithitully pres evs
the raorodmoom Is tree from mehanical quaty.- oatalogs 7 .
CIO)]NFZPBilCFASO~1W
JONNSTON'S CHOCOLATES HAVE BECOME INTERNATIONAL
FAVORITES, AND ARE RECOGNIZED AS H1i
WORLD'S FINEST CONFECTIONS.
Some of the Meet Popular 8ellere Are I'
INNOVATIONS SWEET, TRIAD, QUINTETTE,
MALTED MILK, CHOCOLATE BRAZIL NUTS IN CREAM,
THAT PACKAGE, EXTRAORDINARY, ET4
Put up in dainty packages, from 80c to $5.00.
Hugo Jereslaw,
NEWELLTON, - - - - LOUISIANA
Hot Springs, Ark.
THE NATION'S FASHIONABLE PLAYGROUND
NATURE'S GREATEST SANITARIUM
QUICKEST TIME AND BEST SERVICE
----IRON MOUNTAIN---.
Per Full Information as to Schedules, Rates, Etc., or for ree
Illustrated Booklet, See Your Local Ticket Agent, or write
A.G.P.A.
Alexandria, - - - - Louisiana
AGENTS FOR: PLOWS
Pea Vine Rakes
Thomas Hay Rakes and Mowers
Allen's Planet Jr. Cultivators
Wlaobeeter Arme C .a
Howe Scales
Smith t Wesson Revolvers
Mllburn A Hackman Wagone
Champion Mowing Machinee
Hartig-Beckr Plow Co. CUTVATOR
Vulvan Plow Co.
Banner Buggies
Moline Plow Co.
tarrett'sw Fine Tool PLOW GEAR
Sterlng Emery Wheel Co.
LEWIS HOFFMAN HARDWARE E.
COMPANY
Hoffman Block - - VicksLburg, Mis
Thos. J. Holmes,
Tin and Sheet iron Worker,
LESPEDEZA SEED PANS FOR SALE
By the use of this pan attached to the cutter bar
of Mowing Machine, you oan save from one to two
bushels of seed to the acre.
IEjotel "11Tatchem"
Has all the best features a Sbt-ams hoteL
BAlEER SHOP, BATH ROOMS, AND AN EXCELLEPT
BILLIARD ROOM
A fart sopplag place fr Tasas people
JAS G. SMITH, - - - Proprietor
Are You Going to Build?
It p. carry out the ideo te nmoss fmrable canditions
W m s a about -e $or the prpos,
tbo b0 ra-mle, build well
OI HIQ~BGRADE, WLL-MANUFACTURED mEOUi
AND DRESSED LUMBIER,
sanesses Foori.Co.Wtls, CmpositioM Rdem~gS, Gas,~
DooBrs, dw he ad.h, Etc.,
JOB PRINTING w..a,
Hlale cepr the the other ellow. Weddlag littSio. sr ler heads. bt
B- ,,,Fb --n ,~ra . oo ri .d~rtet
