IlffllLFTH YKAR. No. 25.
HfVrDKANOHN VVLLEY
1 IKKIG ATION DISTRICT
) VNM’AL DECOR I.
■ fiscal V*ar Ending October 31, 1916.)
■ tie West Okanogan Valley Iniga
■ l: District was < rganized January
I, lop', and in August, 1914 the East
■viioKan Valley Irrigation District
■ltd (lie West Okanogan Valley Irrlga
■ iod District were consolidated under
HvMttteof the West Okanogan Valley
■ -igition District.
I jonds 0! the district In the amount
Hi itskOl'O.Ou were sold in July 1915,
lassie feeing made at 90 per cent of
H, per value, plus accrued interest.
Hiyaprovision in the contract for Hie
■tie of the bonds, hut one-half of the
■•-reo: was to be paid the first year
■td one-half of the interest w as to he
Hiil the second year. The balance of
H 1 His’, year’s Interest was to ho
Hm m the third year and the balance
Hilie second year's interest was to be
H.«| ir the loath year.
■ The contract tor the construction of
Hy nniln lines, and a part of the lat-
Hls, was let for the sum of $511,650
Ha. Guthrie A- Co., Inc. Of this
■toimi $15,900 wits to he expended on
H* distribution system. At the same
Hr* a.contract was made with Mr.
He. Denny of Cortland for $14,850
Hi the engineering work and supor-
Hfton of construction, and $4,500 was
Haiside fur legal and office expenses.
Hi (he latter amount some SBOO re-
Htiied to be turned back into other
■ Three addition:! 1 items of expense
Hses, the first being the enlargement
Hi the uglier Okanogan siphon at a
■surf $1,222.93. This was made noces
■y by the inclusion of 252 acres of
Ht Run Oroviile Orchard Tracts,
Hucbdemanding more water than that
Budded for in the original contract,
an Increase cost in con-
Hnctlon. The second Item ol expense
■furred was that for the extension
■ the laterals for the distribution of
Hur to the lands of the district and
to the sum of $9,529.69. The
Brdltem of expense was for the pur-
Hpe of excess material left on the
Hmd by the contractor which was
Hiftt by the district for the shim of
KW.
HOd the completion of tlie work, En-
Hleer Sltweiis nuide a report which is
offered for Inspection.
Hite district has built a telephone
Him, extending from Oroville to
■Hpr-foliowing the main canal
iWW'west side of the river, with
Hiches running to Patrolman Thos.
Hm’ house, near Oroville, the pa-
Hlman station on the east side of the
Her at the lower Okanogan Siphon
Hi into Patrolman Farver's house at
Hukel. The total cost of construe-
Hwas $2,09.‘5.G0. The district has on
Hi some 88 telephone poles and 8
Hi of wire. The telephone line from
Hintake to Oroville was a part of
Hconstruction contract, the district,
Hever, pays an upkeep charge to the
BMd company for the use of their
H for this line, which amounts to
Hip, r year. There are twelve tele-
Hm installed besides the one at
■ Bobb’a house. No connection is
Htith either the Oroville or Tonas-
Httchanges.
He total amount of all moneys ex-
Baed since the organization of the
Htict, for all purposes, amounts to
8U65.34, of this amount $5,287.40
H expended by the East Okanogan
Hey Irrigation District. The district
B indebtedness unpaid heretofore
Hired to of $1,222,92, $9,520.69 and
B)0il amounting in all to sll,-48.71,
H l few unpaid bills not exceeding
Bte county treasurer has paid the
Hof $19,800,0(1 interest on bonds and
H approximate sum of $245.28 inter-
H on warrants. The treasurer does
H report to the district at present
interest paid, hence the above in*
Bat sums on warrants are not cx-
total amount expended by the
district for the time of its organ
to the time of its dis-organiza-
V amounts to $5,267.40 which was
V by the warrants of the district,
■ddltlon to these was some $500.00
Hadebtedness assumed by the con-
Bhted district which has since been
VThere remains, however, a war-
B indebtedness of the old Past dls
•of about $1,200 00 with interest.
B warrant indebtedness is assumed
B*lU be paid by the consolidated
Jtlct. The amount paid out by the
B* district up to the time of the
B*Wnlzation of the Past district.
B®>»« to $6,223.80.
B|“* **penses from the date of the
B*°Udation of the two districts to
1, 1915, a period of about one
•.amounted to $2,563.96. The ex-
B** Paid by district assessments
Bdaly Ist. 1915 to the close of the
•*1 fear, November Ist, amounted to
other expenses being paid
'ta $4,500.00 set aside from the
.B®f the bonds heretofore referred
■J* a legal and office expense fund.
fiscal year from November 1.
M ending November 1, 1916.
expenses as follows:
By l ®** Per diem and mileage $933.33
Bj* about $50,00 in claims unpaid.)
and office help $980.85
B? 11 expense fund.)
■y''superintendent and patrol-
Bjv->. $4,403.60
B”| *•. Printing and elections $568.35
teams $700.35
of Taxes $592.32
BM” sspenaes $883.28
• . Total 9,153.30
1915 the board levied a
of 75 cents per acre for
IB Wr "etlnn fund. The amount
n<l<l tttttt >* >.
l<so/r\\Tr 77X1 |\ |\ J! ■ < /fy Miajipi m
/i uT L) \ (A/* 1 Y // \ I
thus levied was estimated to yield
about 1*5,300.00. The taxes collected
have been expended as follows;
Right of way and damages. $2,378 75
Eegal services IBBMO
Engineering 1,;571.19
Labor and teams l's4l 05
Material for distribution system (J96TO
I elophone material A const’ll 2,093.60
Warehouse materials & const’n 2,79.(10
Tools, mach'y, other expenses 557.05
Total $9,391.20
One thousand dollars of accrued in
terest on the bonds was deposited in
this fund.
In October 1915 the directors levied
an assessment amounting to $2.00 pet
acre for the payment of interest on
the bonds. It was estimated that this
would bring about $15,000.00, the
amount required for the payment of
one half of the interest due on the
bonds. The bond redemption fund was
Increased by the deposit into this fund
of the Intrest accruing on the bonds
before their delivery to the bond pur
chaser, which interest altogether
amounted to a total of $15,870.99,
There remains in this fund, according
to the county treasurer's hooks on Sep
tember 30th, 1916. the sum of sll,-01 -
17.
The construction fund of the district
is overdrawn to the amount of $2,277.47
and tjie expense fund is overdrawn a
small sum (report from county treas
urer not yet available), while on Sep.
30th, 1916 there were uncollected taxes
due the district as follows;
Year 1912, amount due on homestead
and desert claims, $40.35. segregated
as follows: Expense fund $40.35.
Year 1913, amount, $89,51, segregat
ed sis follows: Expense fund, $74.00,
bond fund, $15.51.
Year 1914, amount. $110,67, segregat
ed as follows: Expense fund, $90.00,
bond fund, $20.67.
Tear 1915, amount, $1,409.00, segre
gated as follows: Expense fund. $709.-
00. bond fund, $437.50, construe; len
fund, $262.50.
Veer 1915, deeded lands, amount due
$5,710 35, segregated as follows: Ex
pense fund, $2,847.85, bond fund. sl.-
790,00, construction fund $1,072.50.
Total, homestead, desert claims and
needed lands. $7359.88, segregated as
follows: Expense fund. $3,761.20; bond
fund, $2263.68 construction fund.
$1335.00.
The expenses of the secretary’s of
fice have been unusually heavy the
pas' year on account of the atnuuni < f
work pltfcei! upon this office on ac
coum of the construction of the pro
ject. the necessit; of completing the
wcik of securing rights-of-way, the
settlement with the government for Ihe
construction and other charges aga'.int
,b> Indian lands and the labor and cot
respondence hi* idem (o the sale of
lands.
The operation of the system lias
doubtless been at a reasonable cost.
No serious breaks have occurred and
those occurring have been repaired at
small expenaa.
A break occurred in the main canal
near the headgme on July 12th, caused
by a cloudburst. The water was out of
i lie ditch for n period of eight days,
and the repur bill amounted to the
sum of $448.40. Break on the "T" line
on Septembi- Bth; cause of break un
known; wa*?r out of canal for seven
days, cost of repairs $231725. The
amount of damage has not been adjus
ted at this time. Break in the main lino
on 9 * ptember 4th, water out one day,
repared by snpciintendent and patrol
men without additional cost.
Bchedule of salaries paid during (he
past year: Directors, $2.00 par day,
mileage of 5 cot ts and expense*. s>.-c
--retaty, $1 2 5.00 per month. Patrolmen,
1 at $50.00 and 12 at $75.00 per mouth.
On Septembe- Ist. the patrol s'- vi -e
was ieduced by cne $75.00 man.
Tim secretary’s office help was paid
for at the rate of $75.00 and $85.00 per
month.
Team work was paid tor at the
lirst cf the yja • r.' the rate of 16.00 per
d..y nnd the ialter part of the season
at $-..00 per lay for man and team.
Carpenters were paid $6.50 and $4.00
and other labor $2.50 per day.
$1,500.00 of the proceeds of the bond
sale were set aside for office and legal
expenses incident to construction.
Tills money hai been expended as fol
lows;
legal services $1,708.65; Secretary,
$1,250 00; Office help, $344.50 ; Right
of-way and damage costs, $29.55; Out
er expenses, $272.53; Engineering
work. $102.61; Telephone construction
$113.00, Total $3,820.84.
Balance returned to construction
fund with county treasurer $638.16.
Balance to be accounted for by the
First National Bank of Oroville $ll.OO.
The district has arranged for the
payment of the construction chaiges
by the government for 1,401 acres of
Indian land within the district. An ap
propriation has been made by congress
amounting to $95,000.00. Negotiations
not yet completed contemplate the sale
la the government of water rights on
the basis of $61.00 per acre and sold at
90 cents on the dollar, the same prh
at which our bonds were sold. In ailv
ditlon to this the government will pay
a proportionate part of the inteie-t
that lias accrued on the bonds since
their issue. We also expect to be paid
for the assessments levied by the dis
triet since its organization, amounting
in all to $3.48 per acre and it is expect
ed that the government will advance
the proportionate part of the cost m
constructing laterals for those Indian
lands. ......
According to the assessment 'of this
year, there are in the district 9,. .b,9
acres of land exclusive of Indian land
of which 8.564.7 acres are irrigable,
which total includes 317 acres of right-
ot-way of the railroad which is assess
ed as irrigable land. There are approx
imately 3,000 acres of land using water
this-season. The largest amount of wa
ter carried at any one time, us shown
by the report of the patrolman at the
intake, was on September 4lh, and was
ii'.d second leet. The average carried
throughout the mouth of August was
about i 0 second feet.
An examination of the patrolman’s
daily reports show that on August loth
there were *(5 laterals marked as using
"liter; on August 30th, 91 users; Sep
tember 15th, it users, but the proper
lecords were not kept as to the amount
ol water flowing through each lateral
nor do the records show whether an
irrigation head was used or not. It is
evident, however, that more water was
carried in the canals than was econo
mica IK used or else that considerable
water was wasted in the use.
The complaints received at the sec
retary's office through the season were
all minor complaints that could have
easily been prevented by the proper co
operation of tite water users. There
"to- some disregard ot the rights of
others and some abuse lu the use of
water. The directors should, by proper
regulation, provide against such mat
ters.
1 he total number of different owners
of land in the district is 238, and the
total number of real estate transfers
since the sale of the bonds, according
to our records, is 47.
The district has acquired without
cost to the district, two lots in the
town of Oroviile, for an office site,
these lots were donated to the district
by the First National Bank of Oroviile
and the Oroviile Townsile Company.
The commercial Club of Oroviile has
pledged S2OO toward the erection of an
oflice building and the district should
build its office during Hie next year.
At tnc present time the district pays
slo per month for office rent and the
work ot the district is more expensive
by reason of having no permanent
quarters.
T lie district has begun the construc
lii a ot a patrolman's bouse at the in
take and should, us rapidly as possible
build other patrolmen’s quarters.
T here is a demand on the part of the
people of tin- district for an extension
01 Ihe telephone line and for Its use by
the farmers.
The farmers of the district should
co-operate in the formation of an or
ganization to procure farm loans
through Hie Federal Farm Loan Bu
reau. This work should he taken up by
the land owners independently and not
carried as a branch of the district
work.
The contracts for the sale of land
made by the directors of the district
in file summer of 1914, expire on De
cember 21 at, next. This work has been
carried us extra work by the distric
and not a part of the official duties of
the district and it carried on at all,
should he carried on by the parties
who have land to sell.
At tire time of the organization of
tlie district in the summer of 1912,
contracts were made with the land
owners for a right-of-way for the can
als and laterals. The agreement calls
for a deed at the completion of the
work. Landowners will now be called
on to deliver the deeds in accordance
with the contracts and so conclude
the matter of the right-of-way.
SHOPUFTIXfI.
Oroville Is taking on metropolitan
airs. Saturday, a mild sensation was
created by a case of shoplifting, the
light lingered operators being appre
hended in the act. On the day men
tioned. two women, residents of this
neighborhood, accompanied by two or
three children, entered the store of P.
V. Covert. They looked over and priced
goods without making any extensive
purchases. From the uneasy actions of
the women, and the fact that the chil
dren were handling about everything
within reach, Mrs, Covert’s suspicions
were aroused. Stepping from behind
the counter she noticed that the side
pocket of the coat worn by the female
she had been waiting on had an abnor
mal bulge. Mrs. Covert put her hand
in the pocket and drew it out full of
small packages of braid, or lace, sim
ilar in appearance to a basket full of
the same article on the counter. At first
the woman tried to brazen it out by
saying site had purchased the lace at
another store, but when it was com
pared with that on the counter, had to
acknowledge that she had "swiped”
the loot. She was taken to the rear of
the store and shaken down, where
numerous other small articles that had
been purloined came to light. It was
subsequently discovered that the pair
had raided the store of W. O. Hamisch
a short time before their visit to the
Covert store, where they had accumu
lated a large quantity of miscellaneous
goods, especially baby clothing, which
they had wrapped up in a shawl, mak
ing quite a heavy bundle. As the wom
en are quite well known, all goods
recovered, and they promised to sin no
piore they were permitted to return to
their homes without prosecution.
Jn response to a telegraphic request
from Immigration Agent Leedy, of the
Great Northern railroad, Chas. Powell
and I- F. Pourtales spent last Friday
gathering exhibits for the St. Paul
corn show, that opened this week. They
were able to secure some six or seven
ten-ear exhibits from as many valley
growers, and shipped the collection to
St. Paul Saturday. The gentlemen are
entitled to commendation for their ac
tivity in assembling this corn exhibit,
as the grain will attract much atten
tion at the St. Paul corn show, that
draws large crowds every year.
OROVILLE,*WABHIN VTON, DECEMBER 8. 1916.
Happenings When the Land Was
Young and Sparsely Settled.
(From the Loomis Prospector, Dec
It), 1879.)
Dr. A. M. Polk, the reservation phy
sician. was culled to Loomis Wednes
day to administer to the sick. (Dr.
Polk is at the present time a resident
of Concouully and practicing bis pro
fession.)
Word has recently been received by
bis lather from C. U. Baldwin, who lett
for the Klondyke last (all iu company
with John Them. Doth young men are
well known around hero. Young Bald
win is at Fort Wrangcl, or was when
the letter was written. He had been
offered $2 an hour to go to work, but
was intending to strike out for the in
terior at the first opportunity and re
fused the offer. Them Is working for
that wages. (The last heard of Bald
win he was living somewhere iu idaho.
Mr. Thoiu is still a resident of Loomis.
It seems odd to read of Mr. Theln as a
"young man," although the oldest of
us have once been young, for he Is now
a man of mature years.)
J. W. Miller, the gentleman who In
conjunction with Oeo. llodpath owns
some of the most promising claims on
Chopakn, was one of the stage load
that were headed for the railroad Sun
day. Mr. Miller is bound Mr Tacoma,
and he goes out, so it is rumored, on
a prospective deal that includes some
of his holdings. (Messrs Miller and
Kcdp.ilh were among the early pros
pectors of the l.uonas district. They
'orated claims on Chopaka mountain
above Palmer hike, and the group was
known an the l ake View. No mou tint
have 3ver mined in Okanogan county
ever mked harder, or suffered mote
privations than these two prospectjra.
They would work on their claims so
long as they had grub, and then wiiild
con e down oft the mountain and v.oik
for another stake. They were hopeful
and rouhdeut lha. they had something
worth while iu the claims they held.
They wore men who had the conddence
of the business men of Loomis uod
they could secure accommodations for
almost anything they wanted, for their
word was as good as a bond, but they
shrank'from debt. In time the Lake
Vlcv. was sold to eastern people, a
rnlil was installed, and an elecitr
plant ppt. in on Cecil Cr-u* ai great
cost and an aerial tram built to con
vey the ore from the mine to the bins
at the mill. Everything was in saape
to start the mill when those in cha r ge
quit work and the plant never turned
a wheel. This fiasco was one of the
most mysterious transactions that has
ever occurred In the county. Messrs
Aliiler and Kedpath received cnouga
out of the deal to spend the balance
ot their days comfortably and are now
living at Seattle. The mine has been
abandoned and the mill was removon
to Nighibawk, where it played its part
in another mining farce, and the inci
dent is a dim memory of the past.)
Horace Brown, one of a company
owning extensive holdings on Whisny
Hill, was made happy Sunday by a
visa from his son George, who has
just arrived from Butte. (Horace
Brown was a man well advanced in
years even at that time, and the an
cient ole miner has kept on the Job up
to the present year. At this time he is
on the outside visiting with one of his
children, but when he left he was
hopeful of returning in the spring.
The son George died a few years ago.)
The following item from the Pros
pector recalls a noted tragedy
of twenty years ago. Phillips served
ime and was mixed up in another
shooting scrape on the reservation a
few years ago, for which he is now in
the penitentiary, if our memory is net
at fault; "Last Sunday an unprovoked
and dastardly murder was committed
in Seattle. A half breed named Charles
Phillips shot and almost instantly kill
ed James Wells, a member of the Se
attle police force. The killing was not
done while resiting arrest and there
was not the shadow of an excuse for
the murder. Phillips had been arrested
on suspicion of attempting to commit
a robbery and a call made to .police
headquarters for the patrol wagon.
Policeman Wells rode out in the wagon
and accompanied Phillips to head
quarters. There, Wells got out and or
dered Phillips to follow. As Phillips
reached the steps of the wagon he sud
denly drew a revolver and tired point
blank at Wells. The ball cut the pul
monary artery and the policeman died
in a few minutes. Phillips tried to
escape, but the entire police force fol
lowed, and he was shot twice as he was
about to lire on two officers who had
discovered him hiding under a build
ing. One shot took effect in the leg and
the other so shattered the right wrist
that the hand was afterwards ampu
tated. Charles Phillips is well known
iu northern Okanogan county. His
father is John Phillips, one of the old
est settlers in the country. He spent
several years in the neighborhood of
Loomis, living on the ranch north of
town owned by Mrs. Underwood. To a
Post-Intelligencer reporter he gave the
following brief sketch of his life;
• I was horn,” said Phillips, "In Mis
sion Valley, British Columbia, October
14 1876. My father is John Y. Phillips.
He is r white man. My mother was an
Indian, hut an American. In fact both
of my parents were Americans, When
T was a child we moved to Loomis,
Okanogan county, Washington. I had
few educational advantages, but man
aged to attend the common srhool ? for
about three winters. When I was 14
years old I left homo and went to
Kamloops. B. C. My troubles commenc-
LOOKING BACKWARD.
od and 1 stole a horse from an Indian
in the Nicola valley. 1 intended to go to
On gon, but was captured and sent to
the provincial jail at New Westminster
for seven years. While there 1 learned
the trade of shoemaker. Under some
of the wardens 1 did well, but under
others got along poorly and was badly
treated. I was made bad by association
with other criminals. Most of the ideas
found In my dairy was obtained from
books and the criminals with whom I
associated. 1 have read a great deal,
and take delight In Shakespeare and
Longfellow.”
(At the trial Jack Long and others
were summoned to Seattle as wit
nesses. Phillips got a long term in the
penitentiary. On his discharge he re
turned to the Colville reservation, and
a few years ago shot a resident of Re
public with whom he had some trou
ble.)
COUNCIL MEETING.
Minutes of the regular meeting of
the town council of Orovllle, Wash
ington, December 4, 1916.
Present Mayor Samson, Couucilmen
Beale, Frlls, Starrett and Smith. Min
utes of the previous meeting read and
approved as read. The monthly report
of the town treasurer was read and
motion was made and carried that the
treasurer be Instructed to transfer
S2OO from the water company fund to
the current expense fund. The clerk
Informed the council that the Oka
nogan Valley Irrigation district were
prepared to tile application for fran
chise and the clerk was Instructed to
notify them that the council were
ready to consider the application at
the next meeting. On motion the fol
lowing bills were allowed and ordered
paid:
E. J. Wilson, salary, $75.00; E. R.
Hoose, salary and postage, $102.00; E.
A. McMahan, salary and express,
$35.79; James Taylor, labor on water
works, $2.40; John Collins, labor on
water works. $7.20; Seattle Blue Print
Co. blue prints, $2.10; Neptune Meter
Co. meter repairs, 60c; Industrial In
surance Commission, Insurance. $.3.00;
G. H. Major, engineering and street
work, $37.50; C. H. Neal, attorney fee,
$16.60: Trick & Murray, electrical sup
plies, $.3.56 Telephone Co. phone, $2.75;
L, E. Hendryx. shell rock, $1.00; Mark
Sawtell, street work, $2.50 Schultz &
Son. freight and drayage, $4.25; Pow
er and Light Co. power and light,
$92.40; W. O. Hamlach, oil and oil can,
$2.25; Woodbury Lumber Co. lumber
and fuel, $25.70; H. J. Desmond, sup
plies $4.20; Hughes & Co. supplies for
water works, $24,44.
The town engineer then explained
some of the proposed grades and was
instructed to prepare the grades In the
form cf an ordinance for consideration
at the next meeting. On motion the
council adjourned.
E. R. HOOSE, CLERK.
SOM E APPLES.
One of the most interesting and at
tractive apple displays seen in town
this fall was the exhibition of 52 boxes
in the show window of the Orovllle
Commercial company’s store during
the week. The luscious looking fruit
with its varigated coloring attracted
a great deal of attention and flatter ■
ing comment. The collection Included
Bellflower, Blue Permain, Spltzen
kergs and Ortley varieties. But the
principal and especially hit made by
the exhibit was the fact that the ap
ples came from the old Okanogan
Smith orchard, on Osoyoos lake. Just
above town, gathered from trees 50
years old, that have yielded bountiful
ly every year since coming into bear
ing. The fruit is Just as bright in col
or, as largo in size, as symmetrical in
shape and delicious in flavor as any
apides of like kind grown in the youn
ger orchards The display Is an abject
lesson and encouragement for those
contemplating entering the apple
growing industry hereabouts. The
Smith orchard apples show what can
be expected from the soil and climate
of this part of the valley both os to
longevity of trees and their continual
fecundity. The Smith orchard is proof
that apple growing around Orovdle
is one of the most attractive anl cer
tain industries that tne land owner
catj mgnge in, for there seems to no
no limit to the age of productiveness,
and quality does not deteriorate with
years
LOSING A GOOD CITIZEN.
Rev. A. W. Bond, for the past year
pastor of the Presbyterian church of
this place, left for the east Sunday
for the purpose of settling up some
private business. He left ostensibly on
a vacation of a month, yet It is the
general impression that he will not
return to resume his pastorlal duties.
If Mr. Bond has left to make his home
elsewhere Oroville will lose a very
valuable citizen. No minister that has
ever held a charge In Oroville has
ever been uopular from the view
point of drawing out Sabbath day
congregations, for Oroville people are
not a church going people, and the
moat eloquent preacher In the United
States could not draw a aufficent num
ber of hearers from Sunday to Sun
day to-prevent even the smallest
church edifice from appearing lonely,
hence, by his going, Mr. Bond Is not
leaving a multitude of communicants
starving for orthodox pabulum. Yet
Mr. Bond is an able minister and a
very fluent talker, one of the most
capable members of the cloth that has
ever held a charge In any of the chur
ches of this place. If his ministerial
efforts were not appreciated, so far as
attracting audiences, his activities In
civic matters certainly were, for he
was an active factor and a most ac
ceptable aid in every movement aim
ing for the betterment of the town.
Personally Mr. Bond is one ot the
most genial and likeable members ot
the ministry that has ever occupied a
pulpit lit this town. His daily life
and his relations with his fellow men
has been an exemplification of the
Christian gentleman. From point of
ability he is fitted and mentally
equipped for a larger field titan Oro
vllle presents. He has many warm,
personal friends in this community
who trust that he may return,-yet if he
elects to cast his lot elesewhere those
friends wish him all manner ot good
fortune and success wherever lie may
decide to locate.
PAST AND PRESENT.
While at the opening ot the Bank of
Oroviile, Wednesday, the incident re
minded us of the opening of the First
National hank of Spokane Falls, many
years ago, when Spokane Falls pre
sented no better field for a second
bank than Oroviile does today. There
was no formal gathering of business
men on that occasion. By invitation,
and in the capacity of a reporter, the
writer dropped into the hank and In
terviewed Horace K. Culler, then the
cashier. The bank had temporary quar
ters in a rambling two story frame
building tit the corner of Howard and
Main streets, on lots now covered by a
beautiful and massive brick block and
occupied by one of the largest dry
goods emporiums in the west,
that time, Jas. Glover was building a
brick building at the southwest corner
of Howard and Front streets that was
Intended tor the bank. That building
was the pride of the town in those
days, although a rather scrubby arch
itectural nightmare as compared with
the big Coour d'Alene hotel that now
occupies a corner on the opposite side
of the street..
Well, to get back to the story. Mr.
Cutter wanted the new bank written
up, ami we knocked off a column or
two of pretty warm air, for we bad a
local reputation of being somewhat of
a victim to pipe dreams at that period.
In closing the article the statement
was made that the Review "felt confi
dent that the day was not far distant
when Spokane Falls would boast of
half a dozen flourishing banks of large
capital, and the city be the financial
and commercial center of eastern
Washington.” Mr. Cutter was flattering
In his praise of the article, but said he
with an amused smile; "Cut out that
last paragraph. Spokane Falls will
never see the day when it can support
half a dozen banks. That is one of your
rosy booster statements,’’ or words to
that effect. Ah, think of it! How close
the Review foretold the future of that
beautiful and wonderful city. Not only
did the banking facilities of Spokarc
increase In a few years beyond even
the expectations of the writer, but al
most every prediction of the old Re
view as to the future growth and im
portance of the city, then considered
hot air, has materialized.
TOWN ELECTION,
The town election Tuesday was one
of the tamest affairs of the kind ever
known in Oroville. The caucus nomin
ees were all elected without really any
opposition. Voting was alow and light,
as late in the afternoon only about a.
dozen votes were cast. Subsequently
the population woke up and when the
polls closed some 110 ballots had found
their way into the ballot box. Accord
ing to the count F. S. Beale received
94 votes for mayor, and J. G. Hare 15.
E. A. McMahan received 105 votes for
treasurer. Hare 1. S. 11. Starrott re
ceived 105 votes for councilman, two
year term, R. H. Prentice 1, and A. P.
Murray 2, F. V. Covert 1, For the same
office and term L. W. Barnes received
89 votes, Armstrong 2. For the one
year term for councilman (Jhas. O.
Sterling received 104 votes, R. H. Pren
tice 1, and A. P. Murray 1. The town
administration is in good hands and
it can be expected that the excellent
record made by the present adminis
tration will be continued under the
now set of officials.
——— .
ON A 1110 BATTLESHIP.
Otis J. Johnson of this place is now
sailing the seven seas, behind the
frowning guns of the superdread
naught Denver, one of I’ncle Sam's
alert and formidable watchdogs of
war.
Otis, Who is the son of Mr. and Mrs.
Ole Johnson of Oroville, enlisted in
the United States marine corps at
Portland, Oregon recruiting station on
May -2, 1016 and early in his chosen
career was given the opportunity to
serve aboard the big battleship.
As the U. S. Denver goes cruising
over the seven seas, it is good to know
that a former Oroville boy stands on
her quarterdeck prepared to show to
the world, should the occasion arise,
that the American man behind th.> gun
is still the peer of (hem all.
Prof. Thos. Shaw the stock expert of
the Great Northern, addressed a small
audience in the library building last
Friday afternoon. It was a most in
structive talk and especially valuable
in its fund of Information to the stock
owner. It is to be regretted that more
farmers could not have been r ■ ■■ -.
for Prof. Shaw is a most enter i i: g
talker, knows thoroughly all about cat
tle and has a faculty of conveying that
Information to his hearers in language
that can be understood. There Is no*
a cattle owner in the county who
would not have learned something to
his advantage could he have been pres
ent at any one of the several lectures
delivered by Prof. Shaw during his
visit to the county.
1 Oli.ilALLi OI'AARR.
1 lie >ew Hunk o( Orutille >o« Ready
i or uusiuess.
The new Hank o£ Oroville was for
mally opeueu lor business Wednesday
alternoou, ami ibai bans is now one
ui tuu acme business ventures ot tne
town, with every prospect o£ becoming
a prominent and llounsutug linanci.il
msUiuiiou, a credit to the town and u
iiiuuutneui to the enterprise or local
resiuents. la response to invitations
iroiu tne oiuciais a large number ot
business and yrotesslonal men assem
bled at the bank at 2 o'clock Wednes
day uueruoou to be present at the
opening. a>. C. Mitchell, president ot the
bunk, called upon several ot those
present lor remarks on this auspicious
occasion. L. U Work, the pioneer bun
ker ot Okanogan county, made a very
interesting address, giving incidents
in his lung banking experience and
timely and valuable advice to the offi
cers and directors ot the new financial
establishment. Mayor Samson was
called upon, but responded only in a
few words, declaring that he was not
sufficiently familiar with the subject
to venture any remarks, as about all
he knew about banking was the strug
gle on his part to keep off the red. Dr.
L). H. l.owls, president ot the Commer
cial club, spoke briefly In a very happy
vein upon the importance to the town
and country of the new banking bouse.
A. i*. Murray, president ot the First
National bank, expressed the hope in
kindly and generous words that the
bank would grow apace and prove a
great success. He distinctly pointed
out that it was an independent ven
ture, without connection with the
First National. This statement was
made to correct any impression that
the two banks were in any combine.
Ernst Klstc said In substance that the
starting of a new bank in Oroville by
home capital was an indication that
the people here have confidence In
their home town, and felt certain of Its
future progress and prosperity. That
the movement would make a most fa
vorable impression among those living
at a distance, showing as it does that
the people of Oroville feel that the
town is ou the eve of growth and de
velopment. A spirit ot good fellowship
prevailed, the officials were congratu
lated by all present for inaugurating
the new venture, and the Bank of Oro
ville commenced doing business backed
by the best wishes of the entire com
munity. - —— -
SEE SEEKING NEWFIELD.
The Pateros Reporter says that "R.
\V. Starr, who has been one of our
Hading citizens for several years, left
the first of the week for Seattle, where
he expects to make his home.” R. W.
Starr has been a resident of Douglas
anu Okanogan counties for the past
twenty-five years. He Is a lawyer by
profession, but of late years has been
trying to make a fortune out of fruit
lands, and wo regret to say, failed. He
has always taken an active part In
politics, and has been a democratic
leader in the two counties In which
he has lived for so many years. He
served for four years under the last
Cleveland administration as register
of the United State; land office at
Waterville. During the last campaign
ho worked with tin' energy of youth
for his ticket in Oka ogan county, and
there is no doubt out that it was due
in no small measure that the demo
cratic vote of this county was larger
than ever before. No doubt Mr.
Starr has a lightning rod out for some
public oflice, and as be has earned
recognition through his party for ser
vices well performed he ought to be
rewarded.
HEALTH NOTICE.
Seattle, Washington, November 28,
1916:—Dr. H. M. Fryer, county health
officer. Riverside, Wn.
Dear Doctor —In reply to yours of
the 25th Inst., beg to reply: I—No1 —No per
son living in the house where measles
exists is allowed to attend school or
public meetings where they may come
in contact with children. 2—After dis
infection those who have had measles
can Immediately attend school, but all
those who have not had measles cannot
attend school for a period of at least
two weeks. 3—To my mind there is no
conclusive evidence that measles may
not be carried by a third person, al
though some excellent authorities
claim that the evidence on this subject
Is conclusive. Yours very truly
T. D. TUTTLE.
State Health Commissioner.
TRIMTY EPISCOPAL CHURCH.
(Rev. O. H. Severance.)
Sunday school every Sunday at 12
o'clock. Next services will be on Sun
day December 17th as follows: Holy
Communion and sermon at 11 a. m.
Sunday school at 12. Evening prayer
and address at 7:30 p. m. Kindly note
that evening services will be resumed
for the remainder of the winter at 7:30
p. m.
M. E. CHURCH.
Sunday school at 10 a. m. Epworth
League 6:30 p. m. Preaching service at
11 a. rn. and 7:30 p. m. Mid week prayer
and praise, Thursday at 7:30 p. m.
Sermon subjects for next Sunday; A.
M. “Satan," P. M. “The Black Art.” The
public are cordially invited.
F. L. COOK, Pastor
PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH.
Preaching services at 10:30 a. m.
Dr. Shields, pastor evangelist of Spo
kane and Wenatchee presbyteries will
occupy the pulpit.
«I.M PER TEAR
