he ald well at ch man
V()L. 31 (()IX)IlilA, LA, FRIDAY, 1)E( IDillEli 8, 1910 NI). I
............*********** ** .... . .. .. .. . . .. .. . ...... ..... .. . . . ..... e .. ..v. .. ..... m... . . .. . . ..
SEEK REFERENODUM
ON HEALTH NEEDOS
DR. D. C. CHANDLER MEETING
WITH FEW REFUSALS AT
SHREVEPORT.
SAYS BOARD NEEDS $10,000
C:ty Contends That $6,000 Is All the
Money It Can Afford For Mainte
nance of Health Board-Board
Says Demands Not Exorbitant.
Sh;i. ,ep.art. -
Drr. i). ('. Chandler, city lh alhii oth
icr, is busy circulatinc petitions for a
re'erendtium election at ,hhitch Ihli nut
ters (,f Shrevw, port will (d,t,_,rminhf if
an appropropriation of ,l;.4cb on Ihe part
of Hot- city is enoulih I) operate the
Shrev,,port lBoard of }tal h. Ti h
Sboard asked for $10,00011 and the city
c(uniission allotted 5$,s000 in thle new
hudget which goes into effect January
1, 1917. The city contends that $6j.00
is all the money it can afford for the
maintenance of the health board and
the board contends that its demands
are not exorbitant. As the city de
clined to meet the views of the health
board the petitions are being circulat
ed to compel the commissioners to in
crease the allotment. Dr. Chandler
reports over 200 signatures and less
than a dozen refusals to sign the pe
tition.
Shreveport automobile owners,
whether individuals or corporations,
will, after January 1, have to have a
city registration tag for their ma
chines, in addition to their state li
cense tags, and it will cost them $1 to
get them, according to an ordinance
introduced at a meeting of the city
council by Commissioner George
Thurber. The ordinance does not ap
ply an extra tax. It simply affords
the police department a means of iden
tifyiag .automobilesl since the secre
tary of state's office has failed to re
spond to repeated requests for a list
of all automobile licenses issued to
Shreveport owners.
STATE HAPPENINGS.
The Slate Board of Medical Exami
ners, through E. P. Florance and H.
Payne Brazeale, attorneys, have filed a
suit in the District Court to revoke
the license of Dr. E. D. Robbins, for
mer Baton Rouge eye, ear, nose and
throat specialist, on the ground of his
conviction of a felony. Dr. Robbins
was convicted October 16, of an at
tempt to criminally assault 13-year-old
,tmiA Black. He is serving a twenty
year term on the Angola Penal Farm.
An inventory of the estate of D. R.
Swift of Lake Charles shows proper
ty valued at $335,000, consisting main
ly of stocks in various corporations.
The succession property in the par
ishes of Beauregard, Jefferson Davis
and Acadia, consisting of real estate,
is valued at approximately $7,000. The
Calcasieu property is valued as tol
lows: Real estate, $11,805; stocks,
59,250; bonds, $8,824; notes, 539,
660; other property, $7,236.
With the arrest of four persons, the
Shreveport police began a crusade
against apple cider,-"Mexican hot" and
kindred drinks containing more than
tne legal percentage of alcohol. Those
arrested were said by the police to
have had cide for sale and were
charged with operating blind tigers.
They were as follows: S. Kenakes,
631 Texas; Nick George, 820 Louis
iana; N. S. Liddell, 120 Texas, whole
sale produce dealer, and George J.
Monsour.
Officers of the New Orleans House
wives' League said they will combat
high prices of food by increasing the
supply of products at two curb ma.r
kets, where butter, eggs, poultry and
vegetables bought direct from farm
ers are sold to New Orleans house
keepers.
A wholesale grocery firm is soon to
be established in Homer. Merchants
of Homer and Claiborne parish are
the jprincipal stockholders. The need
of a wholesale grocery house has long
been recognized,
Governor Pleasant appointed the
board of administrators oe the Char
ity Hospital of Shreveport. The board
members are: Andrew Querbes, Jas.
W. Smith, Peter Tanner, Harry M.
Well, Dillard P. Eubanks, Will Mercer
and William O. Spencer.
The United States government en
gineer, applied for some time ago by
DeRidder citizens, It expected soon
and the work of laying out the pro
posed new roads will begin on his ar
rival. •
More than 1,000 Nobles of tie My
tic Shrine, from a diozen or more
Southern cities, participalted in cer.
monies attending the laying of thn
(Ulne'rstone for the nwov IOtOllO . -
rusalem Temple,. which N"i Orleans
Shriners are erecting at St. Charles
.\venue and Clio street, at. a cost of
$200,0001. Virtually all tI he visiting
delegations were acco'lnpanli(d lby
Iheir hands, which furnisheld mulsic
for the picturesque street parade pre
ceding the cornerstone laying.
Assisting in the rem lnies was
Hi:enry F. Niedringhaluse, Jr., of St.
I.ollis, illustrious imp-rial potentlate
of the Noble Order of the,« Mystl
Slhrine, and the cor!nors',¶.), was puti
in place Iy Bl. i. Purser 'f Ain1mi , La.,
grand master of the Louisiana M1:L-;Ct
ie Girand 1.odge.
TIh ei-iring Shriners joined local
nnhmembers in a c'erlon ial s,s'lon
when a large nrlurnhcr of novices
"ctlr')ssed the hurniing <anld::," and va
rious fatutres of entertaitin1i)t have
htr-n providel. ()ut-of-town t-tnples
r.I)epr'e( eli d', includedlt hl 11t e fl'',l .\s
lanta, Mo))ile,'. Montgoni ry, itinting
hamn, liouston. Galvestoin. MImphis,
-hr-vcpo"rt, .Jackson. M.iridian. tKnox
ville, savannah and ('harleston, S. C.
At a meeting or the I)onaldson
viilo commisBsion coulncil, theo fran
chitse of the municipal market for the
coming year was adjudicated to Louis
Wild for $1,250. John Ramirez, the
present lessee, 'was the only other bid
der, offering $1,200 for the privilege
Cecilien Esneault submitted a bid of
$480t for the wharf franchise, but thlis
amount was considered inadequate by
the council and it was decided to re
tain the lease and operate the wharf
for the account of the city.
A reported case of bubonic plague
near Vinton was investigated by Dr.
Simpson, of the United States Public
Health Service at New Orleans, and
Dr. G. C. McKinney, district health
officer at Lake Charles. The negro
woman, Alice Murphy, suspected of
having the disease, was found to be
suffering from diabetes, and a report
to this effect was made to the authori
ties at Washington.
Harry Keller, 15-year-old son of An
thony S. Keller, shot and dangerously
wounded himself while hunting, thrt e
miles southeast of Monroe. He was
standing on a small bridge leaning on
his gun, when the weapon slipped,
striking the hammer on the edge of
the planks, discharging a load of shot
into his left arm and side. It was found
necessary to amputate the arm, but it
is believed he will survive the acci
dent.
The official returns from the Third
Louisiana congressional district,
which gave Representative Whit P.
Martin, Progressive, a majority of 99
votes over Wade O. Martin, Demo
crat, were promulgated by the State
Election Board here and a certificate
of election was issued to Whit Mar
tin. Wade Martin has announced he
will contest the election before Con.
gress.
The $125,000.00 bond issue for- the
building of additional schools in Ba
ton Rouge carried in the special elec
tion. Only eight votes out of 290 were
cast against the issue. The property
value of the 282 favorable votes repre
sents $767,628, and that of the eight
negative votes $40,370. The $125,000
will be used to build two new white
schools and negro school.
The Peerless Oil Company of Moor
ingsport, has completed a 300-barrel
flowing well on the Richard Hammitt
lease, three miles east of Moorings
port. This well extends the Caddo
field several miles to the east and
southeast and adds a large area of
heretofore undeveloped oil lands to
the Mooringsport district.
In adopting an ordinance forbidding
persons under 16 years of age from
driving automobiles and passing
through initial reading a measure
prohibiting the repairing of motor
cars and vehicles on the streets and
alleys, the Shreveport city council
took steps to afford the city more traf.
fic protection and convenience.
George Selman, of Monroe, was ap
pointed a member of the Alexander
Highway Commission, which is to in
vestigate the advisability of a $20,
000,000 bond issue to build trunk high
ways over the state and select routes
for the roads.
The Court of Appeals met at Baton
Rouge to hear cases from the district
composed of East Baton Rouge, West
Baton Rouge, East and West Feliciana
and Pointe Coupee parishes. Only
eight cases are on the docket for the
session.
The discovery of natural gas at La
fitte has created some excitement
among the land owners. In drilling
a well for water, Mr. Secour struck
gas at a depth of ninety feet. Andrew
Cain also struck it at seventy feet. De
velopment is being planned.
BRITANNiC, HOSPITAL SHIP, SUNK IN THE AEGEAN
. ,e -; ·. .. .. .. .: ?:* '::*::¾ .
". . ':>:' ' Y.. ...y\ ,'...'. .:': .v'1 :c - " : " " " '" " : . .. . " ""
":·"1 " "- ": "" ""
.. S...,. .4 :... , 41 .
:ý'f ..".'.x4;:- "d.f:l,'' ° ":':"" ,.,,_ .. ,:} ""', ..., .,', ,., . ,t,, , ir E ." I"i ".. .-"4 ý x " ''-..r} ..' 11' , '.
: : ; N . r ' : `i ''..·· ,.:il ' . - . "Y ', , . .. " ' 1 . " · "`"7= > :·· ." " ' '/ :
...:^. , ". ;.'?( . _,,,." . -..." l -.t - ; .-:I..ll :. ,,< :: ,.... :'.<i' ">.'"- ,'' i  : `f ,ý '\ '" '
I" .\ ' ;-'... .; "'1 1
... -: , -. ý:.? '>'" :v - . •{. , : ..' ",(" ..ý} . . . . .j.( " ; ' : " .. . '{ 1"11 1 1 "3` -, '¢.  , - ) : ", . ".% ', ."
.. A '" ..  . . .. -999 '.:.
4.. .t ·jp4U3V ~~iiwufl
Sk , . ., ,,'a1 ) ) , , .. . ,
:·.): ;; ·C .... ..'...... .. . w,.M.. . ;.... ...4' . v,,
·-·v . .'.. ... 7s~ tt ~ n,
· . . . ,..x
y 'vYB ý",,ý . · ··! · {'·.·:b>.," ' C· J ) ·I·) · ·> I i \L 2· : ý!·: · ···
\Vblte Star liner Britannic, used as a hospital ship, whlch was sunk by a mine in the Aegean sea.
This steamship was second only to the Vaterland In mist aud never was used as a passenger vessel, bqing completed
just after the openitag of the war.
MILITARY TO RULE
IN SANTO DOMINGO
COMMANDER KNAPP OF AMERI
CAN NAVAL FORCBS ISSUES
PROCLAMATION.
Washington.--Capt. H. S. Knapp,
commanding the American naval
forces in Dominican waters, has by
proclamation declared a military rule
in the Dominican republic to break
the deadlock in the local government
and carry out the treaty obligations
of the United States government to
guarantee interest on the public de
and other obligations. "''
Capt. Knapp notified Secretary
Daniels of his action and it was ap
proved. He said he expected to have
affairs straightened out and reported
conditions quiet and the populace sat
isfied with his action. There was no
military clash and no military gov
ernor was appointed, as reported from
Santo Domingo.
Since the election of the new presi
dent in Santo Domingo affairs have
been in a deadlock because the local
government refused to permit pay
ment of obligations which the United
States has pledged itself to see ful
filled.
Affairs became so involved, it was
said here, that Capt. Knapp, acting un
der the full authority with which he
has been clothed, decided to clear up
the situation by putting under mili
tary rule temporarily to preserve or
der and carry out the local govern
ment's obligations.
Bury Ashes of London on Ranch.
Santa Rosa, Cal.-The ashes of the
late Jack London were buried on a
hillside of his Glen Ellen ranch. The
original intention was to scatter the
dust over the land he loved, but by
Mrs. London's direction a concrete
receptacle was prepared in the hill
side, and tlsere, without ceremony, in
the presence of Mrs. London, a few
neighbors and the employes of the
ranch, the urn containing the ashes
was placed and the receptacle sealed.
Others Increase Wages.
Youngstown, Ohio.-The Republic
Iron and Steel Company and the
Brier-Hill Steel Company of this city,
employing more than 11,000 men, an
nounmed a 10 per cent wage increase
following the 10 per cent increase ab
npunced by the United States Steel
Corporation. The Youngstown Sheet
and Tube Company, with 10,000 em
ployes, is expected to grant a similar
advance.
Raises For 200,000.
New York.-The United States
Steel Corporation announced an in
crease of 10 per cent in the wages of
the employes of its steel and iron
companies, effective December 15.
Wage and salary advances in other
departments of the corporation also
will be adjusted. The increase affects
about 200,000 employes and probably
adds nearly $20,000,000 to the corpo
ration's pay roll.
To Ash Heaps For Fuel.
Washington.-Scarcity of coal, due
to the war, has driven the Ddtch to
the ash heaps for fuel. Consular re
ports describe a method of grinding
the refuse from furnaces and passing
it through a liquid which separates
that having fuel value from cinders
and ashes. It is said that 2,000 tona
of refuse produces 28 tos of fuel. '
GREECE GIVES WAY
TO ALLIES DEMANDS
AFTER DAY OF FIGHTING, AGREE
TO SURRENDER THE MOUN
TAIN GUNS.
200 CASUALTIES RESULT
Dutch and Spanish Ministers Ar
rangd Truc~-Forces of Veniselos
..... t pAld of Entente During
Fighting-Attacked Royallsts.
London.-After a day of terror in
Athens in which Venizelists fought
royalists and Greek troops fired upon
entente forces which had been landed,
according to Vice Admiral Du Fournet,
to maintain order, a truce was ar
ranged.
King Constantine finally agreed to
surrender the mountain guns demand
ed by the allies and the latter are
withdrawing their troops with the ex
ception of a small guard.
Disturbances began as soon as the
allied troops were landed. Greek
troops fired on the entente forces
which occupied the Zappeion, while
reservists and Venizelists exchanged
shots on the streets. A pitched battle
between the opposing Greek forces oc
curred in Stadium Street.
The casualties in the fighting are
said to number 200, according to a dis
patch from Athens to the Central
News Agency.
The Dutch and Spanish ministers
finally intervened and induced the
king to surrender the guns on condi
tion that the entente withdraw the
troops, except 300 left in the Zap
peion.
According to information from a
source close to the Greek government,
Admiral Du Fournet telephoned to Pre
mier Lambros suggesting an armis
tice, which was effected after a con
ference of the premier with the king.
While the conference was in prog
ress and even after the French minis
ter had been summoned to take part
in it guns continued to boom.
special dispatches from Athens say
the French bombarded the hill behind
the palace.
A dispatch to the Evening News
from Athens describes an attack on
the British legation during the crisis
in the capital. A French soldier was
passing the legation, says the dis
patch, when a Greek patrol endeavor
ed to seize him. Members of the Brit
ish intelligence service hurried out to
set him free. The Greek patrol fired
into the rescuers, according to the
correspondent, but the attacking par
ty was driven off. One employe of
the legation was mortally wounded.
. he correspondent reports a pitched
battle between Italian sailors and
(reeks.
An Athens dispatch to the Star says
that the fighting began when a French
detachment attempted to seize arms
Ih the engineer's barracks. The
G(reeks fired on the French, who re
plied, killing a Greek officer.
$100,000 For Worker.
Greely, Colo.-When told that he
had inherited $100,000, Lewis C.
Dodge, employed at a mine near here,
puffed his pipe and said he guessed
he'd better get back to work as the
boss did rot pay him for loafing.
ADMIRAL JELLICO
IS fIRST SEA LORD
SUCCEEDS ADMIRAL SIR HENRY
B. JACKSON AS HEAD OF
BRITISHO NAVY.
London.-Rear Admiral Sir John R.
Jellico, commander of the British
fleet, was appointed first sea lord of
the admiralty, being succeeded in
command of the grand fleet by Vice
Admiral Sir David Beatty, who com
manded the British battle squadron
in the Jutland naval battle.
Admiral Sir Henry B Jackson, the
resent first sea, lord, has been ap
pointed presTdflt of The Rteyf Navnar
College at Greenwich.
The announcement of the change in
command of the British grand fleet
was made in the House of Lords by
A. J. Balfour, first lord of the ad
miralty Mr. Balfour said there would
be consequential changes also in the
board of the admiralty.
On being asked whether the
changes in the admiralty meant other
changes in high commands. Mr. Bal
four replied that undoubtedly there
would be changes which would be an
nounced in the ordinary course,
In being appointed first sea lord,
Admiral Jellicoe succeeds Admiral Sir
Henry Bradwardine Jackson, who
had held that post at the admiralty
since May, 1915, when he took the
place vacated by Lord Fisher.
The vital changes in the manage
ment of the navy announced will be
greeted enthusiastically by the coun
try. They were not unexpected, as
recently there has been a demand for
an infusion of new life on the board
of the sea lords at Whitehall. The
case as presented by the critics was
that none of the sea lords had had
active service afloat during this war;
that more than two years of warfare
had brought about radical changes in
methods, and that the active direction
of the fleets by the admiralty should
be in the hands of officers who had
participated in and worked out the
latest style of operations.
Family Perishes in Fire.
Cape May, N. J.-Lewis Wilson, his
wife; mother-in-law and four children
were burned to death in a fire that
destroyed the Wilson home in West
Cape May. The family was asleep
when the fire broke out. Neighbors
formed a bucket brigade, but their ef
forts were in vain.
France Short of Food.
Paris.-The cabinet decided to es
tablish a Ministry of Provisions, with
Joseph Th"rry, under-secretary of
war for the commissary department,
in charge. The new department will
have entire supervision of the provi
sioning of civilians as well as the
army.
Boycott On the Cost.
Spokane, Wash.-The Woman's
Good Government League adopted a
resolution declaring a partial boycott
on turkeys, butter and eggs until
prices are reduced. Members of the
league agreed not to use more than Is
strictly necessary of any of these
products.
2,200 To Get a Raise.
Augusta, Ga.-Twenty-two hundred
Augusta cotton mill operatives em
ployed in five manufactories were
granted an increase of 10 per cent In
wages.
ITEUTONIC MARCH ON
BUCHAREST GOES ON
RUSSIANS INCREASING THEIR AC
TIVITIES IN THE CARPATHIANS
ACCORDING TO REPORTS.
4- -
Berlin Claims Her Cavalry Has Got
ten in Rear of the Roumanians
8,000 Prisoners Taken. Besides
Cs Guns and Other Booty.
l ri..n ri d , r a, ar'* h ..r- . *
S' \,tt r ti. ' V" #
t  'i - ' ] ll llL.. I,' ..n* . s
ct(rt1ing thiir aetiirty in thi r'arpia
thians, says stat nlll-nt. but their at
tacks V lere apparently tiad.' to cover
, letting down of the (t;ffensiv, in thi.s
region. Such assaults as were made
were easily repulsed. On the 'Transyl
vanian east front the Russian press
ure is being continued and the attack
ing forces achieved some slight prog
ress in the Trotus valley. Further
south a height recently lost by the
Austro-German forces was recaptured.
The official statement says that the
battle on the Argechu has been fought
to a decision and won by the Teutonic
forces.
The important town of Tergovisea
has been captured by the Austro-Ger
man forces and the troops advancing
from the north by way of Campulung
have effected a junction with those
moving from the west between the
Danube and the mountains. The de
feat of the first Roumanian army is
said to have been completed and the
Teutons are continuing their vigorous
march eastward from Peteshti. What
remains of the 1frst Roumanian army
Is said td have been driven beyond
Titu to the 'junction of the railroad
from Bucharest to Campulung and
Piteshti.
Southwest of Bucharest the Rot
manians have been repulsed, as they
also in strong attacks to the south of
the capital, a severe defeat being in
flicted upon them while cavalry suc
ceeded in interfering with railroad
communications in their rear.
The total prisoners taken was more
than 8,000. Besides other valuable
booty, 35 guns were captured by the
Danube army.
Must Enlarge Academy.
Washington.-Secretary Daniels has
asked President Wilson's approval of
a supplemental estimate for the Naval
Academy to be submitted soon to the
House Naval Committee, now framing
the 1918 naval approp'iatlon bill. En
largement of the academy will be nec
essary because Congress last year au
thorized doubling the corps of mid
shipmen.
1,500 Bakers Faillures.
Chicago.-More than 1,500 bakers
in various parts, of the United States
have been forced to go out of busi
ness since August 1 on account of
the high prices of flour and other ma
terials, J. M. Bell, general secretary
of the National Association of Master
Bakers of America, said.
More Workers Profit.
Steubenville, O.-Presldent R. C.
Kirk of the Labette Iron Works Com
pany of this city said the company
will meet the wage increase of the
United States Steel Corporation by in
creasing the pay of its 34,000 employes
10 per cent, the advance to become ef
fective December 15.
Ships To Be Delayed.
Washlngtdn.-None of the eight bli
warships authorized by Congress th
year can be ready to join the fle
in less than three years and a half,
Rear Admiral Taylor, chief construc
tor of the Navy Department, told the
House Naval Committee.
Wall Street Pays Bets.
New York.-Holders of some of the
larger wagers made in Wall street on
tihe presidential election began paying
off bets on the assumption that there
is no doubt President Wilson has been
re-elected. Estimates of the total sum
wagered in financial districts ranged
from $3,000,00 to $5,000,000.
Bonus For Workingman.
New York.-Employes of the Met
ropolitan Museum of Art, receiving
an annual salary of $1.290 or lees,
will be paid a five per cent bonus in
December, and during 1917 will re
ceive a per cent bonus to be plid
monthly.
