I
mtngfiit
VOL. 43 FARMINGTON, ST. FRANCOIS COUNTY, MISSOURI, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1916. NO. 48
1 1 1 -i
PELTY'S BOOK STORE--EVKS0M
CHRISTINAS HEADQUARTERS
Shoppers will Find a Visit to Our Store Profitable
1 1 APPROPRIATE PRESENTS
What is Better than Footwear?
Give something for Christmas that is useful as well as beauti
ful. Footwear makes a most appropriate and acceptable gift
for every member of the family from Grandfather to the Baby.
WARM SLIPPERS, LEGGINS, FINE SHOES, HOSIERY, etc.
And the Place to Buy Them
KARSCH'S
Big Fire at
Bonne Terre
Fire was discovered in the Broek
enahire store building at Bonne Terre
; last Sunday morning, in the center
i store room occupied by Max Cohn
with a stock of general merchandise.
Another room was occupied by the
Field-Lippman Piano Company, of
which J. H. Radle had charge, and an
other by the Misses Brokenshire as
a ladies' furnishings and fancy goods
emporium. A large building owned by.
the Wells Mercantile Company not
the one in which that company does
business which was partly occupied
as a stoic by the Wallace Store Co.,
caught fire, the roof dismantled and
the ceiling of the upper story broken
in. Some furniture of the Wells Mer
cantile Co. stored in the upper story
and the stock of the Wallace Store Co.
were badly damaged by water. Other
buildings were damaged and plate
glass windows across the street were
broken by the heat.
The loss on buildings and goods is
estimated in the neighborhood of $25,-
I 000, and the insurance was small. On
! the Brokenshire building, the loss of
: which is between $5,000 and $6,000,
i there was no insurance. The Wells
j Mercantile building was damaged;
about 3,500, with only $1,000 insur-1
ance. The Field-Lippman Piano Co.'s I
loss was about 151,500. Others who I
lost were Dr. T. A. Sons, who had of- j
fices in the Brokenshire building;;
Gordon building adjoining on east;'
Charles Ward, grocer; W. H. An
drews, Quick Pay Old Line Life In
surance Co., and perhaps others.
Max Cohn, in whose store the fire
was discovered, was quickly suspected
j of having started the fire, a warrant
I for his arrest was worn out and he
. was brougHt to Farmington and
j lodged in jail to await the action of
I the Grand Jury, now in session, oh a
charge of arson.
THE COUNTY IN DEBT
Between $80,000 and $90,000 Outstand
ing County Warrants Drawing In
terestWhat of the Future ?
Railway Hearing
As was announced in this paper last
week, E. J. Bean, member of the State
Board of Public Utilities, arrived in
Farmington Tuesday, and, beginning
at 1:30 p. m., spent the afternoon and
evening in hearing complaints of cit
izens of this community in regard to
what they considered inefficient ser
vice on the part of the electric line
through Farmington. Edward A. Ro
sier appeared as attorney for the de
fense, while Jerry B. Burks and B. H.
Marbury represented the plaintiffs.
A number of citizens testified to the
inefficient service of the line, all of
which tended very strongly to show a
lack of accommodation of patrons of
the line, both in the running of the
cars as well as insufficient room, many
of the cars being greatly overcrowd
ed, when a single car was run, espec
ially in the early morning, as well as
ia (he evening, when the usual thing
bio flatf. whpn thpir derision in the cnmrilierl with
matter will be arrived at and their or-1 Relief is now near in regard to the j "b'.e t(J Pu" loose
A ( MOST ELECTROCUTED
Elmer Lewis, freight brakeman,
was rtlmest electeocuted near the pow
er house last Friday. In some way
the side bars of the motor car steps
became charged with electricity, and
Lewis in stepping down from the car
caught hold of the bars and was not
Motorman Wm
ders will be issued.
Shipp hastened to his assistance and
ia rtit considerably more than 100 matters by being present at the hear
passengers were forced to crowd them-, ings, feel that the citizens made out
selves into a single car from Farm- strong cases in support of their claims
ington to Flat River, and returning ' for better service, and that relief is
Unsanitary condition of cars was al- j now practically in sight for this com
so shown. munity in regard to better car service
The defense failed to present any j as wen as improvement in tne ujib
wftnesBes in an attempt to refute the i phone conditions that have been in ex
Uistimony offered by the Farmington ! istence for at least the past two years,
citizens The only line of defense and which has constantly been get
they apparently have in mind is 'to ting worse. Commissioner Bean will
that their service is the best ! soon have an expert on the grounds to
they can give for the revenues deriv- find out just what is necessary to im
ed from the line. Commissioner prove the telephone system, and will
Bean's stenographer took down all the then fix a date for a hearing, if nec
evidence, which will be gone over by . essary. Then the Commissioners will
a full meeting of the Commissioners make such orders as they may deem
in Jefferson City at the earliest possi- j necessary, and will see that they are
nronpr rpD.nlnt.inn rjf thpep twn niih
While here Commissioner Bean dc-' He utilities, which have long been very j anageu w hm"u,
cided to give an informal hearing al- largely a hindrance in Farmington, is almost done for and both hands were
so to many complaints in regard to the belief of those citizens who have badly burned He was brought into
the poor service that is being liven in rendered the assistance that was in treatment and is now get
this community by the Farmington their power to bring about the needed, ting along all right, but ho certainly
and Lead Belt Telephone Co., and set relieL had a narrow escape.
10 o'clock Wednesday morning for the I
hearing of such evidence. This hear
ing was necessarily informal, for the
reason that the, Telephone Co. had not
been given notice of such investiga
tion. A representative gathering of
business men were in attendance at
this hearing, and much evidence was
offered, all of which tended to show
that the telephone service in this city
was entirely inadequate for public
needs; that the entire equipment was
old and superanuated, and that ac
ceptable service was impossible until
better equipment was installed.
All those who demonstrated their in
terest in getting needed relief in these
WORKING ORGANIZATION
NEEDED IN FARMINGTON
It is not generally known, and the
information has just come to us, that
St. Francois county is rather deeply
in debt. There are now registered
and outstanding between $80,000 and
$90,000 in warrants issued by the pres
ent County Court. These warrants
are drawing 6 per cent interest, and
there is no available money in the
County Treasury with which to pay
them.
This means that that amount, if
not more, of the entire revenue of the
county has been anticipated. How
much of this deficit, tho taxes yet to
he collected for 1910 may be able to
liquidate is conjectural, but there is
a probability that the incoming Coun
ty Court may be badly handicapped in
carrying on the business of the county
for the next year. We suggest to
the new court that perhaps there is
a statute that directs them to go on
with the 1917 business and pay for
the same out of t,he current revenue,
and at the close of the year, if there
is any revenue left over, then this
surplus or balance may bo applied to
the payment of the registered war
rants then outstanding.
We do not know just how this $S0,
000 or $90,000 deficit has been ex
pended, but we assume that every
dollar's expenditure has been neces
sary, and we naturally conclude that
our great and wealthy county has
somehow failed to produce sufficient
revenue with which to do the county's
business. If not, then the County
Board of Equalization (and the Coun
ty Court Tvdres " members of this
board) shwta make,,, provisions for
raising a sufficient amount.
How may this be done? The great
lead, companies of this county will
during the current year make in net
profits $20,000,000 "(twenty million
dollars). This is 10 per cent net
profits on $200,000,000, or 20 per cent
on $100,000,000. The lead corpora
tions of this county own at least 75
per cent of the wealth of the county,
and should pay 75 per cent of the tax
es. If they are making a net profit
of 20 per cent on $100,000,000, would
there be anything unreasonable in
placing their assessment for taxing
purposes at $20,000,000? Every year
they take their millions from the
earth, and every million .thus taken
impoverishes the mineral value of the
land that much. The net value is
taken out of our county and State nev
er to return. The day must inevita
bly come When this mineral supply will
be exhausted for no mine may be
said to " '' inexhaustible then how
will it lea ' our county ?
Nature Irtd not place these rich de
posits in" 'ie earth for the exploita
tion and i e use of a few favored in
dividuals; they belong to the aggre
gate wealth of the community that is
built up about them, and that com
munity is entitled to some of the ben
efits lasting benefits that will re
main when the underlying richness is
expended and the surface is left a
barren and practically useless waste.
This is no fantasy, no phantom of
the imagination conjured up to fright
en the timid. Has not this county had
practical demonstration of the fact
here but poorly pictured? When Iron
Mountain lifted its wealth crowned
head toward the skies, and men of
practical mind and means took hold
of it to turn its rich deposits into a
stream of gold to their pockets, they
talked of its inexhaustible resources.
They had no interest In the future
welfare and upbuilding of the coun
ty and community, but with pick and
shovel and hydraulic hose spoiled it
of Its riches and carried them off,
with never a thought of royalty to
the county. Now it is a waste from
which little revenue for the support of
public needs may be derived. What
splendid roads and public improve
ments could have been built, if pro
perly expended, from the public rev
enue that might have been derived
from it rightly pr,esHi,: iid ti'xed!
Shall we allow the opportunity of
fered us by the splendid lead re
sources of our county slip away with
out demanding of the companies,
which are digging away and trans
porting their wealth to other States
and cities, that royalty due this com
munity, to be put into permanent pub
lic improvements that will be with
us when these rich mineral holdings
shall be but a cavern in the earth
and a barren waste of chats and
rocks ?
J. C. Williams, E. E. Swink, Fran
cis A. Benham, Jacob Day and Mode
Coffman leave today for Reynolds
county on a big hunt. They take with
them as their man "Friday" to do the
cooking Lewis Smith (colored). Lew
is, it is said, will be the only colored
person in Reynolds county.
The Best Method of Securing This is
Through a Live, Wide-A wake, En
thusiastic Commercial Club
MUSICAL
ENTERTAINERS
3rd Number Lyceum Course at the
Monarch Theatre
SATURDAY, DEC. 9, 191&
8:30 P. M.
Admission-Adults 50c; Children 25c
A splendid attraction; Don't miss it !
The Times is more than pleased with
the interest that is being aroused by
the suggestions that have been made
through the columns of this paper,
having for their aim the good and bet
terment of, this community. In fact
its frailties, as we know nothing about
it. But we do know something of the
possibilities of a thoroughly alive and
active Commercial Club, especially in
such a community as this, where there
are so many things of tangible worth
the management feels eraitfied with i to back it up. In 'the first place, the
the very apparent interest that is be-; office of the club secretary should be
ing manifested, and if any additional j a salaried position, in order that the
motive were necessary to cause this
paper to persist in this work, such in
terest furnishes the motive.
But in order to continue this work
to the best possible advantage, it ap
pears that there should be a thorough
working organization perfected in this
city, to tr.ke advance steps ill all need
ed improvements and remedial work.
Therefore, the thing that suggests it
self along this line is a live, active,
wide-awake, enthusiastic Commercial
Club. It has long since been demon
strated that such an organization, or
ganized with a purpose and deter
mination of doing things, is the very
best manner of doing real work for a
community, better than any other plan
that has yet been developed.
Of course, to get the best and great
est results, the membership of a Com
mercial Club should be comprised of
Jive-wires. There is no place in such
an organization for "dead oaiS." Such
a membership should comprise every
enterprising and progressive business
man in the community indeed there
should be no ether kind of business
men in the community. '! he organi
zation of live, wide-awake spirits na
turally engenders renewed iifu and
enthusiasm, so thet iuch a club, pro
perly organized, would from its very
inception, be a positive tangible as
set to this fair little city.
The Times is informed that there
is now in existence in Farmington such
a club, and while we have absolutely
no desire to speak disparagingly of
the club now in existence, we cannot
believe that it has the proper organi
zation, one that is calculated to get
results. We cannot say wherein lies
important duties devolving upon such
omcer must not be neglected. And
there is hard work for such officer, if
he performs, in the best possible way,
the work that it is possible for him
to do, in the upbuilding of the com
munity. Here, we are informed, was
one oversight of the present Commer
cial Club.
It now seems to be most timely for
the organization of a new Commercial
Club, on a bigger, broader scale than
formerly, the sole purpose of which,
should be to work for the greater good
and upbuilding of Farmington and St.
Francois county. It would be impos
sible to enumerate the many things
that could be accomplished within the
next year, toward making a bigger
and better Farmington, through per
fect organization of a bunch of zeal
ous and enthusiastic boosters. No
thing is impossible with such an or
ganization. Shall we have it? Can
we afford to do without it? There
are many things already in sight that
Farmington needs, and which can be
secured with small effort. But they
must have a guiding hard if they are
to be secured. This is the best pos
sible time to re-organize the Commer
cial Club, in order to start the New
Year right. If this is done at once
The Times is willing to wager its very
existence that the harvest of good
things for Farmington will be far
more abundant during 1917 than ev
er before even greater than was
heretofore thought possible.
AH that is necessary to bring about
such splendid results, it appears to r.8,
is some.! good man to start the ball
rolling. Who will it be?
I 1
Special Demonstration
GO S SARD
CORSETS
IN OUR CORSET DEPARTMENT WE
ARE DAILY GIVING DEMONSTRA
TIONS, WITH THE ASSISTANCE OF
MRS. H. W. PHILIPS OF THE H. W.
GOSSARD CO.. SHE WILL BE WITH
US ON DEC. 15, 1916.
Not only can you obtain correct information
regarding the new spring styles in corsets,
but yon can also obtain authentic informa
tion regarding suits, dresses, millinery, and
lingerie during this demonstration.
There is a decided change in the figure line
this season. The smaller waist is returning,
but in new form. It will be well for you to
ascertain the latest fashion news regarding
corsets. It can be had for the asking dur
ing this demonstration.
Henderson Store Co.
