V
FRENCH REGAIN
KILL NO, 304
O.'.vn Prince's Army was
. . . J rn
Driven uul ui jli-ui.wuvo
Won Wednesday
ENGAGEMENT FOUGHT
DURING THE NIGHT
Serbians Repulsed Three At
tacks on Macedonian
Front
Paris, Dee. fl.-Heavy fighting 5s in
progress or. the Macedonian front. Throe
successive counter attacks on the Ser
bians were made by German and Bulga
rian troops in the region of Stravino, but
all were repulsed, the war office declare
On JJie Verdun front last night, th
Germans were driven out of the trenchus
they had raptured on the eastern si..e of
hill 304, the announcement says.
8,000 RUMANIANS SUR
RENDERED ARMS
AT SAME TIME
Berlin Report Says They Were Forced
Inro an Engagement on the Alt
River Germans Captured
26 Cannons.
Berlin, Thursday, via wireless, Pec. 8.
The surrender of 8,000 Rumanians,
comprising a whole division, is otlieially
announced. The Rumanians were forced
into an engagement on the Alt. The
Germans captured 26 cannon.
ASQUITH DECLINES
ORDER OF THE GARTER
King George Also Offered Him an Earl
" dom, But Asquith is Said to Have
Asked Permission to Decline
Both Honors.
London, Dec. 8. According to The
Chronicle, King George yesterday wrote
former Premier Asquith, offering him an
earldom and Order of the Garter. It is
understood that Asquith asked permis
sion to decline both honors.
KING OF GREECE
IS AGAIN SICK
Old Wound in Hia Side is Said to Be
Constantly Open and He is
Very Weak.
Paris, Dec. 8. The health of King
L, Constantine of Greece is again causing
anxiety, according to news from Oerman
sources, says a Zurich dispatch to The
Matin. The old wound in his side- is
constantly open and the king is aid to
be very weak.
ITALIAN SEAPLANES
RAIDED TRIEST
Dropped Five Bombs on Naval Sheds and
Returned to Their Station With
out Damage.
Rome, via Paris, Dec. 8. Two Italian
seaplanes raided Triest Thursday, ac
cording to an official statement from the
admiralty, which says the raiders
dropped five bombs on naval sheds and
returned unharmed, despite heavy fire
t from Austrian anti-aircraft guns.
VICTORS FLOWER-BEDECKED.
Remaininz Inhabitants of Bucharest
Welcome Them Enthusiastically.
London, Dee. 8. Reutar'a Amsterdam
correspondent sends the following official
Berlin dispatch describing the fall of
Bucharest:
"At 10:30 o'clock Tuesday morning
Captain Lango of the general staff was
sent as a parlementairc to the command
ant at Bucharest, bearing a letter from
Fiold Marshal Von Maekensen demanding
the surrender of the fortress. A second
letter notified the commandant that fire
would be opened unless the parlementaire
returned with 24 hours.
"Captain Lange returned before the
expiration of the limit, the commander-in-chief
of the Rumanian Danube army
having refused to accept Field Marshal
Yon Mackensen's letter on the ground
that Bucharest was not a fortress but
an open town. He declared that there
existed neither armed forces nor troops
ilistineil for its defense and there wns
neither a governor nor a commandant.
Captain Lange pointed out the character
of Bucharest as a fortress and said that
s.nh an evasion would not hinder the
(.crman operations.
"In the course of Wednesday morning
portions of General Schmittow's cavalry
rorp took possession of a fort on the
north front, and portions of the 54th
army corps puhed on and took the line
of forts from Chiajna. on the we-t front,
to Odaile, on the north. The enemy In
fantry offered resistance, which was
quickly overcome.
From the south portions the Danube
army pressed into the city through the
gii-dle of forts, meeting with no resist
ance. "The trmps enUring the town were
rei-eive-d enthusiastically and decorated
with flowers. Field Marshal Von Mack
enen drove in a motor cur to the royal
rastle where he was greeted with bou
quets of flowers."
French Vote of Confidence Given.
Taris. Dec. S. The Chamber of Depu
ties by a vote of 344 to ltfO last night
parsed a resolution expressing confidence
in the frovernroent in its conduct of the
wei.
TH
E
12 5,"!!",P,
Until All Nations Agree to Reduce Their
Armament the United States Must
Keep Up with the Procession.
Washington. D.s. 8. Until all nations
M u
.U.led Si
r. nee their ariuamem, mo
ji.iiod sttur mukt continue to inonase
iU iMv.il power, Secretary Daniel, de-
lares in his nnmml roport. made publio
iast night, and which urges that funds
be appropratod at once to begin build-
iijf 42 additional ships. j
i ic iv my uuiy to warn "'
ly as I may,- the secretary says after
reciting tlio high expenditures ior tin
navy authorized at the last session of
Congress, "against the danger that lies
in a possiblo feeling on the part of our
people that the navy Wis now ncen hi-
tended to, has been ..laced where it i.c-
longs, among the great navies ot the
world, and there is nothing further to be
done. Complacent retrospection is the
father of dry rot. We have made a mag.
nincient beginning, but that it must not
be forgotten by the public thut the same
intelligent appreciation of our needs, the
same willingness to provide for these
needs, must be shown this year and ev
ery succeeding year if we are to linisli
what we have commenced."
Secretary Daniel recalls that the 1!U7
appropriation bill carries provision for
a possible limitation of armament agree
uiunt. "I earnestly hope the time is not far
distant when this act of Congress will j
..unit i ti.il, on u irrnamntlt f hi rotltlll- !
ues, "and that the nations of earth will
have, the statcsmenship to devise nffec-jof
tivp iiipaiih nf nreservinff
sserving the world sjgiun workers are wie, me nm'"
peace without constantly building ever i says, and the conditions are growing
increasing dreadnaughts at ever increaa-j worse. Many families, after spending
ing cost. Until that hour arrives the j their savings become an object for pub
United States cannot safely adopt any ,11c charity. This is not due, as assert
policv other than that of continuing the;ed in Belgium,- to German requisitions
policy of steadily increasing its naval' of raw material, it is explained, for these
strength." requisitions occurred as a rule only where
Picturing tho result of construction j the factories were unable to continue on-
niMnnl.i. r.ra . ti r V till n ipl 4 ' pm t ions.
savs the main fighting elements of the
licet completed and in commission in ' tnousanu persons, oino m i mo Mii.-uip ni ..-..(n-. .,.c ...
19'l' will be "7 drcadnau.'hts of the first lation, require assistance. These masses advice from you that has enabled me to
line 'supported by six cruisers, 25 second ; of idle people, the statement says, are bear the burdens and cares that news
line' battleships 13 scout cruisers. 1 On degenerating and drunkenness and so-j sarily have devolved upon me. for this
destroyers 12 fleet submarines and 130 cial depravity are resulting. Tens of consideration and assistance I am very
coast defense submersible. While there thousands, the statement says, have ac-1 grateful, and wish you to understand
is no nossihilitv of predicting what rank .
among the naval powers the county will;
tion take, he adds, the authorization of
such a program has been accepted as as-
surance that the United States has defl-
nitely embarked on the policy of build
ing an adequate navy.
The secretary devotes much attention
to discussion of the problem encountered
by the department in getting the new
.1.1... !;.. .littt'n Knilrlinir fertilities Mild
skilled labor are lacking, he says, and j
the program he has recommended for
1018. featured by three battleships and
one battle cruiser, will tax private and
public plants V-.ZlmVnt Yu
the increased building equipment an
thorized for navy yards It was for tha
reason, tne secreta y a ... .
not follow the general board's recom
mendation and urge that the four of the
six remaining battleships of the three
year program and both of the battle
cruisers be laid down at once.
The board states in its report accom
ship, and two sea going tugs to the total
of the 156-ship three-year program.
RETREAT CUT OFF;
MANY CAPTURED
Berlin Report Declares That Rumanians
Are Being Closely Pursued in
Western Rumania.
Berlin, via wireless, Dec. 8. Attacks
made by Russian troops yesterday in
the Ludova regions in the Carpathians
and in Trotus valley on the northern
Rumanian front were repulsed with
heavy losses, the war office announces.
Rumanian troops, retreating from the
Predeal and Altschanz passes, were cut
off by Teutonic forces and most of them
were captured. In western Rumania the
pursuit is being continued by Austro
German troops, which yesterday took
more than 10,000 prisoners.
ANOTHER STEAMER SUNK.
Anchor Liner Caledonia Believed to Be
Lost, Lloyds Announces.
London, Dec. 8. The Anchor line
steamer Caledonia is believed to be sunk,
Lloyds announces.
FRENCH BATTLESHIP
REPORTED LOST
Suffren Left Port Nov. 20 and Has Not
Been Heard From Since All on
Board Are Thought to Be
Lost.
Paris, Dec. 8. The battleship Suffren,
which left port on Nov. 20. has not been
heard from since then and the minister
of marine considers the vessel lost with
all on board. The Suffren sailed for Lo
rient, a French naval station In Brittany.
CAVALRY UNIT AT NORWICH
And Infantry Unit at the University of
Vermont Approved.
Washington, Dec. 8. Educational in
stitutions approved by the war depart
ment yesterday for the organization of
reserve officers training corps include
Norwich university at Xorthfield. Yt.,
where a cavalry unit will be organized
and the University of Vermont, where
an infantry unit will be established.
A NEW NOTE POSSIBLE.
For Purposes of Cleaning Up Differences
to What Germany's Pledges Mean.
Washington, D. C. Dec. 8. A new note
to Germany on the general submarine
situation appears among the possibili
ties t-dav. If decide! upon, such a
note lill be for the purpose of clearing
. . . . i j (T r - .
up wiiftl apcars i m? utjirrmres oi inter
nrrtatinn an to what Gertnanv'g pledges
in the Susses ea.se covered. "
nnnvinir that of the secretary, that its
i...:i,i; iiit;. ;.!i. ;try system ot land
m urnmwu., .. . " . ,iv. Bure)wsig of su
cates tho l.s program ouuuipu coinu u" ,. , . . v .
i :.!,; i. .i.' a tha it.es for marketing f
" V "" are, subiects on which tl
ot twelve mine sweepers, one uTi - , ,
BARRE DAILY TIMES
BARRE, VERMONT, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1910.
'JUSTIFIES ACT
BY EXPEDIENCY
Germany Says She is De-
porting Belgians to Pre-
r iVr,
vent their Degeneration
,
tittt t thm AN) A HALK
MiLWUIN AMU AtlAUV
REQUIRING AID
. . t,, n
Official Statement Blames
Great Britain for
Their Condition
Berlin, Dec. 7, via London, Dec. 8.
The German government issued a state
ment to-day in explanation and justifica
tion of the transfer of Belgian laborers
to Germany. It says the measure is by
no means a hardship for the laborers but
a social necessity.
Owing chiefly to the British embargo
against Belgium's oversea trade, which
before the war supported a Urge part
the industrial population, many Jiel-
One million, five hundred and Bixty
ccpte.l work in (iermany at pruiuame
wages Before compulsory transporta
jtion, every idle person is offered an op-
portunity voluntarily to accept worn ana
compulsion is resorted to only where
the laborers stubbornly refuse. Steps
have been taken to send part of their
earnings to their families in Belgium.
TO BENEFIT TWO INTERESTS.
By Standardizing, Warehousing and Mar
keting Our Crops.
Chicago. Dec. 8 America's most press
ing problem is that of "so standardizing,
r housing and marketing our crops as
. . .. . fp in,r,.,t, of farm.
- alike," according to
, s VrMmlUh assiBUllt
secretary of
agriculture, who spoke here la-t night at
A.-linnar incident to the fourth annual
national conference on marketing and
farm credits. Mr. Vrooman continued:
"Among the factors that stand out in
the problem are rural credits, a satisfac
tenure, me co-oper-
pplies. and facili-
arm produce. These
le federal depart-
constructive work
before the problems involved are satis
factorily solved. It is a herculean task
but filled with promise for the entire
nation.
"From the first the department and the
state agricultural colleges have helped
the farmer in bis tight against the
chinch bug, the army worm, the boll
weevil, the cattle tick and other insect
pests, but for half a century there has
been voiced a vehement protest from
practically every farm organization in
the country over the failure of either
state or federal governments to help
the farmer in his fight against the usurer,
the fake middleman and other human
nests.
"At last the farmer is being met half
way. More economic leaerai legisiaiiun
ims been passed in the past tour years Franklin fessewten nooiurooK, ,y, a tor
than during the forty years preceding. mcr resident and native of Brattleboro,
The office of markets has been erected, j was brought here last night from Ja
a rural credits bill has been pased, aimaica Plain, Mass., where death took
bonded warehouse bill, a good roads bill, ' place Wednesday. He was born here
a grain standardization act and other
invaluable legislation have been enacted. iex-Gov. Frederick Molbrook, war gov
Thesa laws are of revolutionary impor-lernor of Yermont, and Harriet Goodhue,
tance. They are the beginning of a new
and more splendid epoch in American
agriculture."
BENZINE ON HANDS.
Started $3,500 Damage as Burlington
Man Struck Match.
Burlington, Dec. 8. Damage to the ex
tent of about $3.")00 was done last even
ing in the block at 18.r Bank street,
owned by A. Kaltz by a fire which broke
out in the fur repairing shop of Paul V.
Reissig on the second floor of the bhrk.
The big fur shop was gutted by the
hlae. but the greatest damage was done
by the water which soaked down through
the building, destroying furnishings and
some stock in the tailoring establishment
of Mr. Katz and much of the merchan
dise in the store of the Atlantic-Pacific
, . ,
Tea company, which occupies the other
half of the lower floor.
The blaze was started when Mr. Rcis
jig struck a match to light a candle. He
was in the workshop, where he had been
?leaning a piece of fur with benzine.
There was some benzine on his hands,
where the blaze first caught, spreading
quickly to the fur. The room was soon
in a "blaze and Mr. and Mrs. Reissig
worked to subdue it without avail. Mr.
Reissig received slight burns on his face
and hands.
WILL HELP GREECE.
Germany and Austria Have Offered Serv
ices if She Declares War on Entente.
London, Dec. 8. A dispatch from
Switzerland, forwarded from Rome to
the Wireless Press, says that Germany
and Austria have offered their services
to Greece in opening land eommunica-
lions ii Greece aerian-s un mc en
tente.
Two More Steamers Sunk,
t a.iw.u .r,,.r.. it,.
R,..mir. KtPimrr Krlzrr and the Nor we-
lAmUOII. 1 l'''U3 Ull"li'.a
ported sunk,
gi.m steamer Meteor re
Their crews were landed.
SUPT. GROUT RESIGNS
AT STATE HOSPITAL
He Hat Been at Head of the Institution
in Waterbury for 16 Yeara and
Resigni to Secure Needed
Rest.
Waterbury, Dec fi. Dr. Don D. Grout,
for 10 years auxrintutlnt of tho Ver
mont State hospital for tho insane, has
tendered his resignation becauso of ill
health and tho resignation has been ac
cepted by the board of directors. It is
understood that the present staff of as
sistant physicians will be promoted and
tho place ot junior assistant physician
filled.
Supt. Grout's letter of resignation, an
nounced to-dav, was as follows:
Waterbury, Nov. 24, 1016.
To the Trustees of the Vermont State
Hospital for the Insane.
Gentlemen :
You will recall that some six months
ago I offered my resignation as superin
tendent of said hospital, with the re
quest that I be relieved of my dutiea
Aug. 1, 1016.
As a basin for this action I stated
that my health demanded a rest and an
opportunity to recuperate from the phy
sical condition made inevitable by the
arduous duties incumbent upon one in
my position.
Your reply was that you could not
consider my request, hut that I was au
thorized and requested to take such rest
and recreation as was necessary to re
store me to health.
I have seen no opportunity, on account
of the necessary daily toil, care and
oversight, to take such a vacation, nor
can I see how it can be brought about in
the near future.
Since I have been in charge here I have
had only one vacation of two weeks, at
one time, for the multiplicity of duties
would not permit it.
Since .Sept. S, l!Ki, I have carried on
the work devolving upon me to the best
of my ability, and I want to assure you
and former members of vour board that
1 foel that I have had the earnest and
inai i iuny appreciate a.
For nearly forty-five vears my ehoul-
ders have been, almost daily, in my pro-
tessonai collar, ana near.y sixteen oi
these years have been occupied in the
performance of my duties in connection
with the Yermont state hospital, as one
of the original trustees and as superin
tendent. I ask that I may be relieved of my
duties as superintendent January 1, 1917,
or as soon as you can arrange, there
after, matters so as to enable me to do
so.
Thanking you for kindntM, considera
tion and assistance, I am
Respectfully and sincerely yours,
Don D. Grout,
Superintendent.
Acceptance of Resignation.
: The letter of the trustee accepting the
resignation was as follows:
Nov. 27, 1018.
Dr. Don D. Grout.
Waterbury, Yt.
Dear Dr. Grout:
We sincerely regret that the condition
of your health continues to be such that
you regard it necessary to sever your
connection with the hospital.
In accepting your resignation as super
intendent we desire to express our appre
ciation of the long and faithful service
rendered; your successful administration
as such; and to commend you therefor.
Wishing you a speedy return to health,
we are
Yours very truly,
D. D. Bunlitt.
C. If. A. Stafford,
X. D. Phelps,
Trustees of the Vermont State Hospital
for the Insane.
BODY BROUGHT TO VERMONT.
CoL Franklin F. Hovland Was Former
Resident of Brattleboro.
Brattlcboro, Dec. 8. The be,, of Col.
; March 1, 1837, the oldest son of the late
'. Holbrook. During the Civil war he was
i military agent of Vermont. After the
jw-ar he became head of the firm of F. F.
JiolnrooK lo., manumcmrers oi Hgriciu
tural implements.. He leave,, two sons
and a daughter. They are Frederick Hol-
; brook, a large contractor now in Russia,
Percy Holbrook of New York and Mrs.
Emmcline Armstrong of Baltimore.
CROSSING WAS HIDDEN.
So Five Men in Automobiles Were Killed
By Train.
Stafford Springs, Conn., Dec. 8. Five
1 ,
j .
men were killed and one seriously in-
lt.. vnktonlav when ft northhound
" j . . . j .
on the Central Vermont railroad;..
struck an automobile at a grade crossing
a mile south of the local railroad sta
J I lull. a iifr iiir.i .. . w j... . ...
j wiIIimantic employed at a local house
tion. The men were carpenters irom
The men had completed their day's
work and were on their way toWilliman
tic in the automobile wh-n the train
struck the machine squarely. The oc
cupants were tossed in all directions, two
l.. ; tlirmun intrt Q brook. Th I'TIIS-
being thrown into a brook. The cross
ing is hidden from view by big embank
merits on either side.
GAME LAW BROKEN.
And Three Respondents Were Sentenced ;h(.'grpativ missed. He was a good neigh
at Hyde Park. li,r- kind hearted and did many good
Hvde Tark, Dc. 8.-The case of State deeds for his less fortunate friends
v. r.nnre .Tones of Hvde Park, charged
with statutory rape, -is being tried in
ith statutory rape, -is ueing inea m
.moill. county court. In the following
,ses the respondents pleaded guilty and
jLa
...ntonred: Henrv Chase, infraction
: cases
jof e ,wg entenced to state prison
for than or more th(n tw0
i Tears Arii,ie Hill, infraction of game
laws, sentenced to state prison for not
less than six months nor more than one '
rear: H. Demars, infraction of game!
Us. ordered to pay a fine of $.V1 Wfore
June term of court. John Pcpsw .
. " -
burcUrv, wntenMsl to tho
in.iii.t r.Mi
school. The grand jury found one true
hill, State vs. Pilbm.
BALFOUR TO BE
IN CABINET
Will Become Foreign Secre
tary Under Premier
Lloyd-George
LORD CECIL ALSO
WILL BE MEMBER
Lloyd-George Formally Ac
cepted By Kissing
King's Hand
London. Dec. 8. At a meeting of Lib
erals to day it was stated that A. J. Bal
four would be foreign secretary oi um
new cabinet and Lord Robert Cecil would
remain parliamentary under secretary
for foreign affairs.
Davis Lloyd-George at Buckingham
palace last night formally kissed the
king's hands on his acceptance of the of
fices of prime minister and first lord of
the treasury. This indicates that in an
unexpectedly short time the new premier
sees his way to the formation of an ad
ministration and he probably was able
to submit to the king a preliminary
draft list of the principal proposed min
isters. With the vote of the Laborites, togeth
er with the bulk of the Unionists and a
large section of the Liberals demanding
more energetic prosecution of the war,
Mr. Lloyd-George will probably command
a working majority in the House of Com
mons, while a further asset will be the
benevolent neutrality even of the sup
porters of the late cabinet in the nation
al interests.
The work of "that little Welshman,"
David Uovd-George, throughout the war
has been one of the outstanding personal
features of the conflict, so far as Great
Britain is concerned. Xo man has played ;
a more prominent part than Lloyd- i
George, who succeeded the late Lord
Kitchener as secretary of state for war
last July. . I
Llovd -George's career compasses a rise i
from dire poverty and obscurity to high i
power and prominence. He was born in ,
Manchester in 1SH3, son of a Welsh .
schoolmaster. Although handicapped by I
straitened circumstances and wretched j
health, he won his way througu me snetr
force of hia brilliant intellect.
He is a solicitor by profession. He
was president of the Board of Trade from
1005 until 1008, and then chancellor of
the exchequer from 1008 until 1915. Dur
ing the first year and a half of the war
he was the directing genius of British
finances, and so well did he succeed in
that task that another one-and a more
important, for the time, was given to him
th.H of speeding up the manufacture of
munitions for armies which had been suf
fering until that time from lack of shells
and other materials.
As minister of munitions, Lloyd-George
organized in wonderful fashion the plants
and workers for the production of the
things needed by the fighters, and it was
not long before Great Britain's men on
the various fronts were supplied as well,
if not better, than their enemies.
When Kitchener went down with a
cruiser that was taking him to Russia
there was really one man considered to
succeed him. That was "the little Welsh
man." He has frequently been called
'the great conciliator." Ho it was who
settled the strikes of the Welsh coal
miners, shipbuilders, dock laborers and
others and brought order into an indus
trial situation that was chaotic.
-f
ELDERLY FOLKS BURIED.
Mrs. Roxa Richards and Charles Lombard
of Plainfield.
Plainfield, Dec. 8. Tho funeral of
Mrs. Roxa Richards, who died Monday
morning at Heaton hospital, Montpelier,
was held Thursday afternoon at the
Methodist church, Rev. A. W. Hewitt
officiating. W. P. Lanee sang several
selections. The bearers were Dean P.
Towne, E. J. Bartlett, J. A. Foss and W.
II. Martin. The burial was in the village
cemetery.
Roxa .(Kidder) Richards was the
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Ezra Kidder
t . CI.. .... Urn Ian OS 1HJI)
, rm a , is" who' died
47 vears ago. Since his death she con
ducted the tinsmith business which he
began over 50 years ago. Mrs. Richards
is survived by a half-eiter, Mrs. Allen
Ferrin of Springfield, and several neph
ews and nieces.
Funeral services of Charles Lombard,
who died early Monday morning of
stomach trouble, were held Wednesday
afternoon from his late home, Rev. L. F.
Fortney officiating. The burial was in
tho village cemetery, where Mr. Lombard
ha.l been sexton for nearly du years.
rh l...rers were Charles and JirooKs
Buxton and Earl Lombard, nephews of
the deceased, and Luther Stinson, a
brother-in-law.
Mr. Lombard wa 77 years old, a life
long resident of thia town. His first
w ife wai Miss Julia Bartlett. One daugh
ter, Blanche, was born to them and died
in infancy. His second wile was Mrs.
1 . mljse N " wh0 died about six years
! - . . ; 1 1 -
ago. -ir. ionsru i oii:u
sisters. Mrs. Fanny Buxton of this town
and Mrs. Luther Stinson of Chelsea,
Mass.; also by one nephew, Harrison
Lombard of Montpelier, besides many
i .... ..J ; Mr. Iimh.ird will
There were many oenun.u,
utes. Relatives from out of town to attend
"" - ..",.. n,.n n(i
the funeral were C h.rle. Buxton and
Arch Nye of Barre Mr. and Mr, tar
Lm',ilr" of Montpelier
'n of Chelsea, Mass.
USED DYNAMITE
"
jo Check Firo After 17 Buildings Were
TVtroved
St. George, N. !.. IX. uyrramue
wis ufa iu i a- .-.- - -
17 building, including stores, to-day.
The los is t7o,'0.
,ncu;s!admittedly
Plans Were Laid at Conference of Wash
ington County Organiiation in
Barre Thursday After
noon. Twenty-one farmers of Washington
county, memlx'rs of the executive com
mittee and advisory council of the Wash
ington County Farm Bureau association,
met at the oifice of County Agent F. H.
Abbott in the Howland building yester
day afternoon to formulate plans and
discuss organization with a view to
strengthen inu the present bureau. L. R.
Simons of Washington. D. C, was pres
ent to dcmoiihtrate an efficient method
of organization, and .lay Cor) ell, assist
ant county agent leader, was also present
to assist in the explanation.
The present scheme of the organization
adapted itself readily to these new im
provements. The present association is
governed by an executive committee,
which is aided in its work by an advisory
council which consists of a representative
of tho farmers in each farm center or
community. It has been felt that the
county agent could not perform the most
efficient services without more definite
help from the members of these commit
tees and the farmers themselves.
The new outline adopted by the meet
ing retains the present system but adds
to it by indicating more specifically the
duties "of each member of the commit
tee. F.ach of the executive committee,
including the oflkers of the association,
has been assigned a particular item of
work to look out for throughout the en
tire county. F'or instance, the president
will lend his time largely to organiza
tion work, the vice-president will assist
in arranging meetings, field excursions
and meetings of farmers' clubs, the secre
tary will take charge of publications.
The other members of the committee
have been assigned to different projects
such as follows: Dairy projects, corn va
riety demonstrations, home, production
of feeds, potato demonstrations and or
chard demonstrations.
F.ach one of the advisory council men
will be expected to act as chairman of a
local committee in bis community. The
duties of this committee will be to assist
the agent by laying out his work in that
locality, obtaining men to carry on the
demonstrations, arranging for meetings
and nrniects. Bv this system it is ex
pected that the work of the association
can be accomplished more efficiently and
the duties of the county agent simplified.
The county agent will work directly with
the community committees and their
chairmen and he will enlist the aid of
the members of the executive committee
in the work throughout the county to
which they have been assigned.
The following program of work was
recommended by the committee meeting
and will be carried out somewhat as fol
lows: 1. Corn varietal demonstrations.
2. Home production of feeds, (a) le
gumes, sov beans, alfalfa and clover.
3. Dairy project, (a) cow testing as
sociations, (b letter breeding.
4. Organization work, (a) county, (b)
community.
5. Minor projects, (a) potatoes, (b)
orchards, (c) farm accounts.
The above are named in the order of
their importance. The corn variety tests
will be carried on if possible by growing
12 varieties of corn on a plot and there
should be at least 12 plots in the county.
Production of feeds is an important item
and the growing of high protein contain
ing feeds such as soy beans, alfalfa and
clover will go a long way towards in
creasing the farmer's labor income. The
dairv project i very important. Some
time" will be spent in following up cow
testing associations and organization of
new ones and special talks will be given
on better breeding. Minor projects will
be taken up in the localities which de
mand them but probably to a less extent
than the more important mentioned
above.
As voted at the meeting the question
of co-operative buying will be handled
bv local organizations swn n wmt"
clubs, the secretaries of these organiza
tions to look after the orders in their
community and then to confer jointly
with a committee, appointed by the as
sociation for the purpose, in order to ob
tain right prices and combine their or
ders. It seems that the above arrangement
will tend to increase the efficiency of the
association and make it possible for the
county agent to do more work.
TWO ARRESTS AT ONE TIME.
One Man Charged with Operating Auto
While He Was Intoxicated
Frank T. McGovern of Hardwick and
Martin J. Elliott of Rutland, the one for
operating an auto while intoxicated, and
the other. MeGovern's passenger, for in
toxication, were arraigned before Magis
trate 11. W. Scott in city court this tore
noon. Klliott, who gave his occupation
as that of a traveling salesman, acknowl
edged a first offense and paid a fine of $."
and costs aggregating $I..'I5. It was Me
Govern's second appearance before the
judge since his arrest on North Main
street yesterday afternoon and to-day he
rea dinned his original plea ot not guiiM.
Bail was fixed at $200 and the case will
be tried in city court Monday morning
at 0 o'clock. (Jran.l Juror William Wish
art is in charge of the prosecution.
McGovern, who says he is an insurance
agent and real estate operator, and F.l
liT.tt were" arrested by Chief Sinclair
while the former was running his car up
North rriin street. When me poiui-innii
approached McGovern, his passenger, Kl
liott. is said to have interfered, with the
result that both men were taken to po
;..a I. ,,iurt,.rs. Mc(5overn was ar
raigned immediately, but a series of in
formal remarks which he used in address
! ing the prosecutor and the court, prompt
i ed Judge Scoft to remand him to the
IV7V IV
Business on Millstone hill shows no
.! nf slackening " the output for a
'single half-dav on one sidoM the granite
mountain is 'an indication. From the
east side of the hill this forenoon no few-! be di-turbe.i by smh a communication,
er than twentv-three loaded cars of but it contents were not taken too se
Barre granite came down the slopes over i hmislv. Nothing untoward happened to-
the Barre A Chelsea raiiroad. This total day. People who attended the cany
does not include the half-dav output of I mass said that policemen were in the vi
al! the quarries in the Gran'iteville dis-' oii.it v of the ihurch. -thief Sinclair of
trict nor are the figures for team hauling the polk-e'foive said he had heard that
available. Granite quarriers on both thrust against the church had been made,
sid.-s the hill take an optimistic view ot but a the matter was not reported to
i business conditions in the w.nter that is
just around the corner am labor is fair-
'y well employed in Barre. Indeel. two-
thirds of the granite fi-uring in the
twentv-three carloads mentioned is to I
cut here in Barre.
PRICE, ONE CEXT.
SERIOUS nsE
sv"
Sinking of .abia Has
Brought ew Crisis
W . 'Germany
GREAT BRITAIN ASKED
FOR INFORMATION
Next Step Will Not Be
Taken Until All Facts
Are In Hand
Washington, D. C, Dee. 8. Great Brit
ain has been asked by the state depart
ment for information as to the status of
the steamship Arabia, which was sunk
bv a German submarine without warn
ing. The next step in the situation, ad
mittedly the most serious since the Sus
sex case, will not be taken until all the
information is gathered.
IN NO SENSE .
A TRANSPORT
Official Information to the State Depart
ment Says Marina a Peaceful
Merchantman.
Washington, D. C, Dec. 8. Official in
formation to the state department estab
lishes that the British ship Marina, sunk
by a German submarine, with a loss of
six Americans, was in no sense a trans
port and was entitled to the immunities
of a peaceful merchantman.
"SEVENS" RULED
At Big Entertainment Given at Goddard
Seminary.
Goddard1 seminary's seven-cent sale
fast evening was a big success, over 400
people attending, and a big crowd wait
ing in the corridor for the mystic mo
ment when 7:37, the opening time,
should arrive. The chapel was very
beautifully decorated for the event,
arches over the various booths being
made of evergreen and flowers, which
lent a charming effect to the wares of
fered for sale.
It was announced this morning that at
least $150 would he cleared from the sale,
the money to be devoted to needs of the
school. Every girl in the school was on
some committee for the fair and the ac
tive interest which each one manifested
could but make the affair the success
that it was. No special effort was made
this year to interest the alumni, where
as last year there was a special alumni
booth, but many of the alumni gave for
the booths without special solicitation.
The "seven wonders of the world." the
sideshow, was the big hit of the evening,
and nt least 31X1 of the 400 present at the
sale found their way behind the curtain.
There the strong man rattled his chains,
a bold holdup was in plain view and
there were five other nerve-racking and
remarkable sights.
Manv dainty and useful articles were
on sale at the utility and fancywork
booths and most of these had been trans
ferred to the hands of purchasers before
the close of the evening. The candy
booth disposed of all its wares and a.
brisk sale went on during the evening at
the ice cream booth. There was also a
fish pond, with a crowd trying its luck
all the evening, and a booth where your
fortune was told.
As the closing event of the evening, a
seven-number program of great merit
was given, and a pleaaed and happy
crowd wended their way homeward, feel
ing that they had had a most enjoyable
evening and rejoicing that so much suc
cess had come td the second seven-cent
fair that the students on the hill have
given.
The program was as follows: "Festival
March." Misses Calef, Hassam and Lease;
"Norman Cradle Song," Miss Helen
Kingsland; recitation, "Polly's Surprise
Party," Miss Juno Martin; "Mother
Machree." James MacNab; "Swing
Sung," Master Avoir-Du-Pois, one of the
seven wonders of the world; comedietta,
"Dr. Devine, Madam and Her Seven Pu
pils"; selection, double quartet.
NOTHING HAPPENED
When St. Monica's Bell Sounded at 5:30
A. M. as Scheduled.
None of the developments threatened
in a communication addressed to Rev. Fr.
P. M. McKenna happened early this
morning when the big bell in the tower
at St. Monica's church pealed out its
matutinal warning that the hour for the
5:30 o'clock mass was approaching. Serv
ices commemorating the Feast of the
Immaculate Conception were held at
:30 o'clock and again at 8. with Father
McKenna acting as the celebrant at both
masses. Sometime last week the priest
received a letter, evidently written by
persons who objected to hearing the bell
ring in the early morning. It was hinted
that injunctioii'proceedings might follow
if the bell ringing did not cease and
then in more vigorous language, it is
said. Father McKenna was advised that
the church would be destroyed, possibly
dynamited, if the injunction proceedings
finally failed of their purpose.
Pari-hioners of St. Monica's state that
the pastor referred to the letter at both
j ngnt that the clrrgvman's peace of mind
;, well as that of the parishioners should
masses lasi mnii". -
him officially, he toolc no notice oi in
r-ports.. If policemen were near tho
. hur. h to-day. he thought that their pre-
core there accounted for by t,.e fact
tnat they were merely on ic.r .rro.nt-
ej beat.
