MIDDLEBURY, VERMONT, FRIDAY, DK(M3.ri)ER 8, 1910.
NO. 40
VOL. LXXX.
AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY,
STEIN-BLOCH
9MART CI,OTHI59
cnjoy such a splcndid rcputation that
most dcalers would be glad to scll
them. This privilcgc, liowevcr, is ac
corded to onlyonc dealcr in each city
a privilcge that is our in Middle
bury. May ve show them to you ?
$18.00 to $25.00
IVES & SHAMBO
Cobb Rlock
Middlebury, Vermont
3HSHSHSH5H5H5HSESHHH5HSH5HSHSH5H5E5ESH5H5SSH5HHHSd'
IP YOU KNOW BEANS !
and Brown Bread are fine fcr
Saturday suppers, order them at
COLLINS' BAKERY
FORMERLY TAYLOR'S, MAIN STREET
ALSO
GOLDEN CRUST BKEAD
Uonest in weight and quality and a good assortinent of
COOKIES BANQJJET CAKE
PIES AND DOUGHNUTS
;5H5E5HSE5HSH5H5E5HSESHEEEH5H5H5H5H5cEH5E5E5HEEEEHJ
i n
1
KRYPTOIC CHRISTMAS CLRJIHCATC
Kwy lur l!ry kiU
OvanjtticuakiyulifrtrrpirtfffpJi
1 J JZtil
1! W
Give them
KRYPTOKS
for Cljrfetmosh-
ALFRED D. BARTER, 0. D.
Ofllcc and Sliop - middlebury, Vermont
QUICK IlErAIHS DY MAIL
THE HIGH COST OF FEEDS
is interesting every dairyman. Prices on most feeds are
out of sight and still going. As to where they will be
before spring comes again your guess is as good as ours.
We have in transit a car of LARRO-FEED that we
shall offer for 810
per ton taken from the car. This is only a slight art
vance over last years price and for a balanced ration is
reasonable. Sold on a guarantee, money back if not sjt
isfactory. At this price from the car only, more if we
have to handle it. Don't miss this chance, send us
your orders.
F. C. DYEE CO.
"The Big Store"
Salisbury, Vermont.
I
ADDISON COUNTY COURT.
Short Sonalon Antlolpatod-Urao
Dlvoroo Dookot. Grand
.lury Dlsoharaod,
Tho December torm of tho Addinon
County court opencd itt tho court houso
in Middlebury promptly nt 10 o'clock on
Tucsilny mornlng. Hon. Zetl F. Stanton
of Roxbury is tho preslding judgo nml
Hon. Honry 13. Dny of Hipton nnd Hon.
Wilbor 13. Hanks of Bristol nro tho as
slstnnt judgcs.
Thoro woro only a Binnll numbor of
out'oMown nttornoya on hnnd for tho
oponlng, mnny lawyorfl conncctcil with
cnsoaon tho vnrious dockots fnlling to
put in nn nppenrnnco.
Rov. DuvidH. Corkran, pnstorof tho
Mothodist church olTercd tho oponing
praycr, after wliich ShorifT Smlth mado
tho cuBtoniary proclnmntion for tho
oponing of court. Tho difTcrent dockots
wero tlion culled over to find out wliat
busincss there was to coino boforo tho
court.
Tliojury calcndnr waa flrst lookcd
over nnd tho eight cases thoreon woro
temporarily diapoaed of as follows:
Norman S. Foote va Georgc M. Moore,
nppollnnt, spocinl nssumpsit, continued;
Ethel Rced va Gladys Shnekett, slandor,
trial: villngo of llristol vs the llristol
Rnilroad company, nppollnnt, and
trustee, special assumpsit, continucd
for tho reason tbata similar caso is now
nwaitihg tho action of tho State
Suproino court; Frederiek K. Hackus
and (JoorK'' W. Crockett vs Allnn
Culhoun, ojectment, tnal; (Jiaiios 15.
Kondall vs C. K. Dickinson and 1.. H.
Iirown, breach of contract, passod;
Isabulla McLenn, nppollnnt, vs William
A. Serill's cstate, passod, and Charlos
W. Kvarts vs Michnol Mayhew, tort,
trnnsferrcd to tho court cnlondor.
Lator it becamo doubtful whothor
any of the cnses marl ed l'or tho trial
would actuully como to trial. Tho two
slander casus wore soon taken out of the
trial list and entorcd continucd for the
reason tliat Joscph C. Jones of Rutland,
cousol for plaintifl' Rccd, had gono to
Woodstock to attcnd the Windsor
county court.
Thoro wero only fivo cases on the
court calendur and these wero disposcd
of as follows : In re estntc of Charlos N.
Hayward, Emma C. Eldreilfje, trustcc,
Hose Lucia, administratrix, J. II,
Lucia's ostatc, trustce, appellnnt, ap
peal from probato court, marked for
hearing; Fred C. Smith vs J. L.
Donglas, ojccttncnt, hcaring; Joseph H.
Cobb vs A. II. andG. S. Ilier. Ibroach
of contract., hearing; R. II. Holcomb vs
Robcrt Allcn, broach of contract, set
tletl and discontinued; nnd Allinson J.
Hurlburt vs George Adnms, samoentry.
The divorce dockot showed 19 cases,
all of which stand for hearinKs, and the
criminnl clockcthns seven, all of which,
with one exception will have to goover
for the reason that tho respondents are
in parts unknown and thus beyond the
jurisdiction of tlio court. The seven
qases are: Stato vs Fred Murphy,
keepiiiK liquor with the intcnt to sell
contrary to law;' State vs Arthur Hur
rouKhs, two cases for burglary nnd one
for broaking jail; State vs John L.
Wilmarth, assault with intent to kill;
State vs Carlie Evarts, subornation of
perjury, and Stnte vs Wilbur Waitc,
rape.
Most of the 19 cases on the chancery
docket wero passed for the present on
account of the abscnce of the lawyers
engaged in them, or wero marked con
tinued. The case of John Purinton vs
Nixon Thomas and Minnie Thomns was
transferred to the court calcndnr. In
the foreclosure case of 'Thomns and
Hcnry Galvin vs William W. Williams
et al., Frank W. Tuttle was appointed
special master and tho case continued.
The following cases wero entered
settled and discontinued: Marie Landon
vs Clark II. and Jennie Winch, W. H.
Dean vs Herbert A. Cuison et al., W.
H. Dean vs Adolphus J. Cuison etal., C.
W. Ross vs George Fred Hayden's ud
ministrator et al., and Charlos M.
Swift vs J. H. LeRoeuf.
Mony of the cases on the general
civil docket wentover to theJune term
and many others were passed. In the
case of Charles C. Field's administrator
vs Wilbur Field, appellant, which has
been in court for several vears, an order
was mado that a report be made by the
auditor before the next term or the
case would bq dismissed. In the cases
of French & Crosby vs the Boston and
Mnine Railroad company and A. I'.
Needham ngainst the snme contfnuances
were entered for tho reason that a simi
lar case is now before the United States
Supreme court for adjudication. In the
caso of Frank Lavarn vs Harro Jimmo
&Co., Frank C. Archibald of Man
chester was agreed upon as auditor and
the case continued. Tho following
cases were entered settled and discon
tinued: Kntherine negore's adminis
trator vs Lewis Begor, uppellant, D. G.
Donahue, nppellqnt, vs Benjamin F.
(Continued on pnge 4)
Surplus Reported nt Annunl Meot
Ing, Offlcora Ro'olootod, Good
Yoor In All Dopartmonta,
Tho prosonco of Col, S. A. Ilsloy nt
tho annunl mcotlng of tho Addlaon
County AgriculturnlSocioty Wcdnoadny
nftornoon, whon it hnd hcon fcnrcd that
hm hoalth would not pormit, nnd report
of n proflt of nbout $inOO from tho last,
Fair, broughtchoor and good feoling to
tho gnthoring nnd mndo it ono of tho
most plenaant In ycnra as itwnaalao tho
Inrgoat. Metnbora woro present from
all pnrta of tho county. Harmony pro
vniled nnd tho old ofilcera wero olectcd
without oppoaltion. Prosidcnt, John E.
Wcoka; Vico-I'residonta, Col. S. A.
Ilaley andW. C. llnck; Sccrotnry, Frank
C. Dyor; Tronsurcr, Chnrlea F. Rogcrs;
Audltors, John A. Flotcher, J. M.
Burke, and C. A, Chnpmnn; nnd
Dlrectora to servo for throo ycnra, John
II. Donnolly, Frank W. Willinma, Luciua
E. Avory, and Truman C. Varnoy.
Whon nominntiona for Prosidcnt woro
callcd for, Col. Ilslcy said hc had como
to tho annunl mcoting for two reaaons,
flrst becaii8o of hls improved hcnlth,
nnd secondly that ho rnight nominnto
Judge Wcoks for Preaident. Col, Ilsley's
romnrks woro loudly applaudcd, Upon
jhis unnuimous elcction Judge Wceks
jmnde nn excollont address, reviewing
I the work ol tho ycar and usking for co
ioperation for tho continued succccss of
j the Fair. IIo said the Society had
'closed the most prosperous vcar in its
Ihistory. Evcry cffort will be mad to
lincren.se the usefullncss nnd nttrnctive
j ness of tho Fair, but we have como to a
' point whcro it is hard to find anything
t botter. This is especially truo in enter-
tainmcnt, it bcing hard to (ind anything
which Addison county has not seen.
I Exhibitiou Hall last summer had ono of
tho bcstdisplays I'vennadein Vermont.
Tho mcchnnicnl building has been of
1 gront practical beneflt to tho farmcrs.
i Tho excollont races last year were se-
cured only by renl cllort,- thoro now
being vcry little brceding for spced in
this part of Vermont. In closing Judge
Weeks asked for earnest work on tho
part of all to inakc tho next Fnir a still
grcator succcss, nnd asked for a rising
voto of apprcciation of the restored
health of Col. Ilsloy, which wna unan
imous. Thedates for the Fair of 1917 were
flxcd for August 28, 29, M, and 31.
On motion of W. N. Cudy secondcd by
Prosidcnt Thomns the Society voted
$100 for premiums at the Winter Stock
Show nt the Government Farm.
The entertainment following the busi
ness mecting was of high order and
was much enjoyod by tholargeaudience.
The Bostonian Male Quartet was good.
Mr. DeBall provcd an entertaining
humorist, nnd P. V. Mordeliu, the "Man
with the Accordion," mado that instru
mcnt do wonders ncver before secn in
this country.
The Secretary's report by Frank C.
Djer gnve such a clcar nnd informing
account of the alfairs of the association
that we rcproduco it in full.
SECKETAKV'S IIEI'OKT 191G.
The Addison County Fair has passed
nnother milestone and one that will be
memornble for its grcutexhibits, splcn
did attendnnce nnd flnoncial success.
The"high cost of living"had affected our
fair as it had individuals and the remcdy
was the same; a little speeding up, and
economies where possible. The result
was a balance on the right side of the
ledgur and we have commenced again to
ndd to instead of subtract from our
surplus. There wero some new features,
we need them. We had for instance a
"Ford Uay"withoutunyhelpfromIIenry
either. I foundoutby the way that self
propelling vehicles were not popular in
somc quarters; as when I asked per
mission to have some large posters
placed in certain public placts I was
answered, "that if they contained no
reference to our "Ford Day" the
matter would be considored." As they
did not the posters were displayed. A
little contracted perhaps, but after all
human. We had special classes for
bull and heifer calves exhibited by the
boys of Addison County, through tho
generosity of two membcrs of our
ho rd. I want right here to quote from
a letter written to mo by Andrew
Elliott of Galt, Ont., who judgcd the
cattle classes. As you well know there
is no higher authority on this continent
than that blulT old Scotchman. Hc
s ys, "Perhaps a word regarding Mid
dlebury lair just passed might be in
order. Let me say that during a long
life's association with fairs and fair
management I have scldom found a fair
so complete and up to date in its mnn
ngement. Also I have not o.'ten found as
much interest manifested in the agri
cultural part of the exhibition. Too
of ten that part of the show is neglected,
hardly tolcrated in fact. I nm pleased
to seo that through the liberality of
some of your people it has been possible
(Continued on page 4)
LET US HELP YOU IN SELECTING YOUR
CHRISTMAS GIFTS
OiirsholveHnndcafleflarollllod with now nnd nttrnotlvo gooda
nnd all we nsk Is inHpcotlon. Wo fcel auro wo ean jilfaau you
HIJA.UTIFUI. CIIIN1
in slngln plcccH for tho hoiuo and
STIJKI.INC; and PX.ATIJM HIIVIJR
for tho tablo
OUU IJNIJ OI' STATIONIIUY
Is laigo nnd of tho llnest uuiillty, with Kympiionv Lawn nnd Tump Linkn.
Wo nro not excclleil if equnlled by nny llnu In town.
CONFIJCTIONUUY-TIIIJ AI'OI.I.O CHOCOI.ATIJS
old frlends of our otiHtomt'rs, nono cuperior.
In hcautlful an npproprlato pnokageH
Chrlotmaa Corda and Chrlatmaa Bookleta Goloro
Drugglata' Sundrloa, Toilet Artlolea, Eto Eto.
WATCH THE WINDOWS
SHELDON'S REXALL STORE
II. A. Sheldon 1817. Ori'ostTR Post Oitich Wm. II. Siieldo.v 1010,
THE STORE WITH THE CHRISTMAS SPIRIT
While you are making out your list of the prescnts you are
going to give this year, why not add a few of the following?
COMFY SLIPPKRS for all 65c to 81.50
(from grandma to baby brother)
BOUDOIR SLIPI'ERS (co!ors) 75c to $1.50
EVEN'ING SLIPI'ERS $2.50 to S3.50
MOCCASIN SLIPI'ERS 60c to 82.25
SLIPI'ERS for nien and women in other styles and materials
SLUMBER SOX 50c
BABY BOXES (shocs and hose to match) 81.25
GORDON HOSIERY
for all. We carry out sizcs for women
F. A. EVANS
SUCCESSOIt TO W. K. CI.EME.NT
Phone 32-2 Middlebury, Vt.
"sHOP EARLY"
D. S. PEASE
FURNSTURE
UNDERTAKING
Phone 66-2
THE HOLIDAY SEASON is fast approaching.
Every year more people become convinced of
the advisability of shopping early.
We ofier you some attractive Bargains in Serving
Trays, Work Baskets, Smoking Sets, Pedes
tals, Children's Rocking Chairs and Doll
Carriages.
Our usual full Iine of Mattresses, Beds,
Chiffoniers, Dressing Cases, etc. is ready for
your needs.
Picture Framing
WIIEN LOOKING FOR USEFUL CHRISTMAS GIFTS
REMEMHER THIS STORE
SPECIAL, THIS WEEK
HIen'8 OutiiiR Flnnnel Sliirls, wcrc 75c
Now 45c
SOME SPLENDID VALUES IN PURS
Our stock of Men's, Women's and Children's Clothing
was never more complete
Overcoats, Coats, Suits, Dresses, Skirts, Waists,
Mackinaws and Sweaters, Underwaar,
Rubber apd Leather Footwear
Rcmcmbcr You Al-wnys Pny Less nt the
MIDDLEBURY SUPPLY CO.
The Storc That Sntlsfics
Ln7urowiiz Block Formerly Cliapman Block,
Telephone No. 52-2
Middlebury, :: Vermont
I
1
