TIMES
PAGES 1 TO 8
OWOSSO THE CITY OF PUSH"
VOL. XXXVIII
OWOSSO. MICHIGAN, DEC. 8, 1916.
NO. 37
OWOSSO
rfFar i nn p .ward.
Sheriff Griffin and the vestry of the
Durand Episcopal church have offered
$100 reward for information that will
convict the persons who damaged the
church Nov. 30. . . , -.
Ask New Trial. i
A motion baa been ; made N for a new
trial in the case of Samuel .Willis
' against Homer Hodge, In which a jury
in the circuit court gave a verdict of no
cause for action. A verdict had been
given Willis in the justice court on his
claim for 30 for coal furnished Hodge.
Postoffic Employees Salaries Raised.
Miss May Lawrence and Ami Nelson
postal employes in the Owosso office,
have received raises in salary from $1100
to 1200 beginning Oct. 1, ,'16, while six
of the rural carriers will receive extra
compensation to bring them up to the I
$1200 limit for tne year, duiy 10
June 80, 1915.! . . '. '
4 ' Wins Prize Second Time.'
' S. C. Dowling, Owosso agent of the
Consumers ' Power Company,' has , won
the $10 prize for the second timo for
the best article on "How I Did It,"
being a statement of how new busU
ness wa3 secured. The article is
printed in the company's monthly
magazine and is entitled "A Case in
Court.'?
Cook Family Reunion.
The annual reu'iion of the Coofc fam
ily was held Thanksgiving day at the
. home of Mr. and Mrs. Landon F. SteW-
art on the Curliss farm in Bennington
township. About thirty were present
and enjoyed a bountiful dinner served
V by the hostess, as well as a very pleas
ant social afternoon. Mr. and Mrs.
'Frank Cook of Chesaning, were among
the guests. ' 0
Hinze-George.
The marrir ge of Mies Louise, daugh
ter of Fred Hlnze of Caledonia town
ship, to Oliver George of Owosso town
ship, formerly of Cabery, . 111., took
(Dlace Nov. 30. at high noon, at the
nfViorn- nonnnnirfl . Thft bride WRH
' attended by her sister. Miss bmrna, also
of Caledonia, and the groom was at
tended by his brother, Harry George of
Owosso township.
Brown-Lecureaux.
Mies Gertrude Brown, oldest daugh
ter of Mr. and Mrs. Fred Brown or Cal
edonia township, -was united in mar
riage Wednesday evening at 8 o'clock,
t. frv T.ann TwrnrpnnT. 1ar Cit flftlflflnnift.
at the home, of the officiating clergy
.man. Rev. C.R. Wolford, in this city.
They were attended by Walter Brown,
brother of the bride, and Miss Huldah
Lecureaux, sister of the groom.
firtlfar T.nrfffTr ' O O. P. Electa
Officers.
,' Colfax lodge No. 430, IO. O. F.,
lias elected the following officers:
N. G., Clarence J. Deline; V. G.,
Arthur Rogers; secretary,' Harry
Stephenson; F. Sec, Louis O 'Berry;
treasurer, Wm. E. Kribs; trustee for
three eyars, Ray Godard. degree cap
tain, Wm. Eames.
The degree team, will not go to Ver-
-'' non tonight.
Shiawassee a Bit Slow.
Wayne, Washtenaw, Presque Isle
and Missaukee counties have provided
their share of the funds needed to se
cure the appointment of county agri
cultural advisors and after July first
nextnen for the places will be named
by the State Board of Agriculture.
Will Shiawassee be the last county
in the state to wake up to the value and
importance of the work done by these
advisors? . , .
Charged With Assault
Terrin Warner, a farmer living near
Bancroft, is to appear for trial Monday
in Justice Nichols court in Corunna,
on a charge of assault and battery, pre
ferred by Charles Frye of Bancroft,
who has two black eyes as a result of a
fight which occurred when Frye weut
with Village Marshal Johnson to serve
a summons on Warner in. a suit for
wages claimed to be due Frye's son. It
is also stated that the marshal and
Wells Warner engaged in a fight at the
same time. Warner is out on $200 bail.
Officers Elected.
The following officers , were elected
by the Owosso Improvement ; Associa
tion Tuesday: President, F. W.
Smith; vice presidents, L. B. Allison,
S. Q. Tulver, A. M. Hume, W. E. Hall,
W. D. Whitehead; directors, W. II.
YnnSicc, . Benjamin Robbing, M. F.
Blair. : '
Mr. Smith declined the election ns
president both before and after the
motion to-elect . him and 'a successor
v.-ill probably be. chosen at the 'next
SUES JAMES . McBRIDE
Harry E Dunbar Begins Suit for
- - $10,000 on Note for Stock."
CORUNNA, Mich., Dec. 2. Harry
E. Dunbar, of Cashin, Colorado, has
started suit in the circuit court hero
for $10,000 against Jaines N McBride
of .Burton. .The declaration' declares
that Mr. McBride owes him $5,000-as
interest and principal of a promisory
note given by Mr. McBride, to Mr.
Dunbaria Cashin in May, 1910. 'The
noto waa for $2,000 and. the declara
tion says that the arrfount now due
with ' interest added is $5,000. The
note was secured it - is said by $2,000
of stock of the LaSal Copper Mining
company, at par value, owned by J.
N. McBride: The note was obriginal
ly for, one year,. but according to the
declaration has been renewed at var
ious times. v ' .
The declaration further states that
Mr. McBride owes Harry -E. Dunbar,
for stock valued at $5,000, the stock
being on . the La Sal Copper Mining
company. It states, that Mr. McBride
made a contract in 1900 with II. P.
Dunbar, the assignor, to "deliver, the
stock . to II. P. Dunbar or the assignee,
Harry E. Dunbar.
- Moose Lodge Prospering.
December 21 will be a red letter
day on the,calcndar of Owosso lodge,
Loyal Order of Moose. On that
night, a largo class of new membera
will be initiated and the Owossoites
will entertain the St. Charles lodge
and the degree team of the Flint
lodge. The St. Charles ritual team
will confer the degrees on the large
class and the Flint team will show
pictures illustrating the degree work.
Sixty-two new members have already
been secured and there is no doubt,
members of the lodge say, that this
number will be increased to 100 by
December 21.
The St. Charles lodge, will be met
at the depot with a band and will. bo
escorted to the lodge hall on North
Washington street by their Owosso
brothers,: . -A social ;timo . wHUoeeupy
part of the evening; '
Arrangements have been made for
a social feature to be added to the
regular lodge meeting every Thursday
evening. A different committee has
charge each week and each commit
tee tries to outdo its predecessor.
The lodge is in a flourishing condi
tion as regards both membership and
finances. '
Demand $5,000.
A demand has been made on Sher
iff B. S. Griffin for $5,000 which was
paid to Hugh A. McDonald when he
agreed to abandon the prosecution of
L. C. Hall," Jr., on a criminal charge,
and taken from him later by Deputy
Sheriff E: J. Herrick when 'McDon
ald was arrested. This is probably
preliminary to a. suit to 6ccure the
$5,000 for Hugh McDonald.
The appeal from the probate court
in the matter of the estate of Mrs.
Agnes Van Wormer, deceased, Fred
Grumley, claimant, which was on trial
in the circuit court for one day, was
settled Friday. Grumley lived with
Mrs. Van Wormer and her husband
for many year's on their, farm .near
Durand and at her death, put in a
claim for $2,100 for labor. It was
allowed by the commissioners on
claims and accounts, but the adminis
trator and the heirs' contested it.
Grumley accepted $1,500 in settle
ment.
TRAVELING MEN GUESTS.
Enjoyable Smoker Given by Improve
ment Assooiatlon
The Owosso Improvement Association
was host to the traveling men of the
city at a luncheon and smoker at the
armory Saturday evening. Short talks
were'made by W. A. 8eegmlller, Fred
Haoffan, J. J. McDonald, G. W. Has
kell, J. B. Mcintosh and others. G. T.
Campbell, chairman of the entertain
ment committee, presided.
The talks brought out some points of
of interest, one being that there was a
shortage of modern houses to ent, that
Owosso needed a larger and finer hotel,
and a better passenger service on the
Grand Trunk Railroad.
Surprise Social". Function.
About forty of the friends and
neighbors gave Mr. and Mrs. O. J.
Snyder and two daughters a surprise
party at their home ycst of this city
Friday evening.
The evening was pleasantly spent
with dancing' and music. A bounti
ful supper was served at Viidnight.
Mr. and Mrs. Snyder wero presented
yith a bread and butter set from tho
guests. . The guests departed nt a lati;
i hour reporting nn enjoyable time.
BOYS ACCUSED OF CRIMES
Youths Were Planning to go to Texas
With Money Obtained from
Robberies. ' '"
Patrolman Fuller took six boys from
school Tuesday, to appear before Judge
Matthew Bush, charging them with
numerous. roberies in Owosso during
the last few weeks. After much Inves
tigatlon and reports of thefts from the
Owosso Milling Co. and the Townsend-;
Fulmer store and other places, a young-j
ster who be.ard some of the boys plan
ning to go to Texas told the police , and
Clifford May, aged H; Wilson Berkley, i
14; Claude Marvin, 14; Frank Stanton. !
14; George;steggall 13 and Walter Fow-!
ler 15, were taken in charge.- Clifford
May, who is thought to be the leader!
has been placed in the Dorcas Home
pending investigations.' May admits!
having been involved in six deals, and
says he'and Berkley and Marvin were
absut to start west. , , .
, The Owosso Milling Co. is the largest
loser, the boys claiming to have taken
f 150 . there at different times. They
went in and asked to telephone and
robbed the cash drawer while there.
The boys made one statement which
was considered doubtful, claiming that
a printing office bad. $300 in the safe
and they went after it but failed to
open the safe
Elks Memorial.
- Owosso Lodge of Elks held its annual
memorial evercises Sunday afternoon
at the temple, a large number of mem
beis and friends beings present. The
services are always impressive ' and be
come more so as the roll of departed
members becomes larger. Five brothers,
Roy Simpson. Laingsburg; Fred H.
North way, Durand; Fred H. Brown,
Ann Arbor; Leslie J. Kinne and Ben
Smith of Owosso, who passed away dur
ing the past year, were remembered in
a eulogy given by Hon. .Matthew Bush,
who knew the men intimately and called
to mind their good qualities and inci
dents of their lives.
l-Hon; Qeq. Lf Lusk of Bay-City? dep
uiv secretary of state, formerly of Owos
so, gave a most eloquent general eulogy.
Miss Wilma Demuth sang and Mrs.
Charles Sackrider rendered a violin solo
being accompanied respectively by Miss
Gladys Reineke and Mrs. Frank Kohler.
SUGAR BEET PRICES
CHANGED
Owosso. Sugar Co. -Will Give Farmers
Beenfit of. Sugar Price.
The Owosso Sugar Co., as it always
has, will play more'thari fair with the
farmers next year on the price of
beets, and will pay a minimum as high
as the present price and add to the
price of . sugar, all for a higher price.
$7 a ton ' will be paid for beets if
sugar sells for $7 a hundred; if the
price is $7.50 or $8 a hundred beets
will bring $7.50 or $8 a ton. The
price now is $6 for beets apd sugar is
selling for $7.30. The price to govern
will be' the price of sugar in October
January next year.
The plan, in on the system estab
lished by-Mr. Roy Osburn, formerly
of Owosso, who is manager of the
Toledo factory, but i3 better in that
the' minimum here is $0 and therc$5.
Gr een-Young. ,
The marriage of Miss. Avis Green,
daughter of Mr. and. Mrs. A. Vf.
Green, and Dr. Glen ; Young, of De
troit, was solemnized at the home of
the bride in' Corunna, Wednesday af
ternoon in the present of one hundred-fifty
guests, Rev. E. J. Cross offi
ciating. Miss Ivah Rosson, of Grand
Rapids, and Dr. Jas. Belyea, of To
ledo, Ohio, attended the bride and
groom. Mrs. Cora Vandewater Wort
ley, of Ypsilanti, sang two solos and
Prof. James Tillotson, of Lansipg,
played the wedding march and Men
delssohn's wedding chorus. After a
wedding dinner Dr. and Mrs. Young
left on a wedding trip and will be at
home in Detroit after Dec. 30.
Obituary.
Mrs. Lucy A. Broad, whose death
was mentioned in our'last issue, was
born in Grand Rapid 78 years ago,
going to Lowell with her parents,
where she taught school several years
and was married in 1801 to William
A. Broad. In 1872 they came to
Owosso and had resided here since
' Mrs. Broad was a woman pf fine
qualities, a leader in church and liter
ary, work and for several years had
been n leader in the work of tho First
Church of Christ "-'"ist, of this
city, making man K
She is survived
liam Broad, and
.F r KlMtttMf.v'
('lrllan, of thil
WILL GUARANTEE $2,000
Expenses for Tabernaclo Meetings'
. Apportioned to Churches. j
The 13,000 necessary to guarantee the
expense of building a tabernacle and
pay other expenses of holding the meet- j
infcs to be conducted by Rev. Ira Honey
well and his assistants in Owosso In1
January, have been apportioned to
Owosso churches and the work of secur
ing the pledges is being -successfnllv
carried on. ' . ' .
It is not expected the amounts will
have to be paid as the collections for the
fist three weeks haye in all other cities
paid the expenses, which include .build
ing the tabernacle. heatiDg, Hcrhtlntr.
renting a furnished house for the evan
gelist and pay half the salaries of the
assistants. ' Rev. Honeywell Davs the
balance of the salaries and secures his
own pay from the last Sunday night
free will offering. No collection is
taken up during the last two of the five
weeks.
INJURED $10,000 WORTH
Adelbert A. Spangler, a farmer of
Woodhnll township, has started suit in
th circuit court by summons through
his attorney, W. J. Parker of Corunna,
against Stanley H. Wallace, a furni
ture dealer of Perry, for - $10,000. Mr.
Spf ngler's suit is based on alleged in
juries he received last October when he
fell down a Btairway at the Wallace
store. He declares that he is perma
nently injured, and charges negligence
on the part of Mr. Wallace.
, ; Death of Mrs. Guy Castle.
Mrs. Guy Castle, aged 27 years, died
atlthe 8narrow hoanltal in Lanslncr.
Saturday, after an Illness of three weeks
with typhoid pneumonia. The remains
were brought to Owosso and the funeral
held Monday at the home of Mr. and
Mrs. Thomas Castle, North Washing
ton street, Rev. Frank Green officiating.
Mrs. Emma Bogart Castle was the
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Howard Bo
gart otthis city,, here, she Jived prac
tically all her life! . She was an active
oiember of the Church of Christ Her
husband and a daughter one year old
survive,
Death of Mrs. Walter Osborn.
Mrs. Walter Osborn passed awav
Friday morning after an illness of waa extended by the Owosso clergy
" ? .'i. 11. .1 1 All ... .
four years following a stroke ofjl uie ennrcnes ot rue county to bt
paralysis at her home on Saginaw 0OInc identified with the tabernacle
street in this city. She was 71 years' meetings. "Quite a number have si-jui-of
age and had lived in Owosso since . fic(t their intention of doing so. Co
18G6. She is survived by her husband nmna churches are included in those
and her niece, Mrs. W.'e. Collins, ofjvho wil1 help the cause.
Detroit. Funeral .arangements have
not been made.
Collins Will Ask Nomination.
J. II. Collins, of Corunna, will be a
candidate for the nomination for cir-' m wmcn ome of the ministers differ
ent judge of the thirty-fifth' judicial with Rev. Mattson. They all paid
circuit at the primary election in tho tribute to the papqr, however, as a
spring of 1917 and petitions to place masterly effort.
his name on the ballot are now being
circulated. Judge S. S. Miner will bo
n candidate for re-nomination.
Estey-Woodard.
The marriage of Miss Florence Marie
Eatey, daughter of O. B Eatey, and
Frank J. Woodard wss solemnized at
the Congregational parsonage by Rev. (
B G. Mattson, Thursday morning. Mr.
and Mrs. Woodard left for Detroit and
will be at home after Dec. 20, at 122
John street, In this city. Both are well
known Owosso young people and many
friends extend congratulations.
Tax Collection Notice.
The winter tax roll having been de
livered to me. the taxes therein levied.
also all special taxes can be paid at I"sen against Charles Chase and the
my office in the city hall at any time cases of the Journal Company of Troy
from the fifth day of December to "gainst the Owosso Motor company,
and including the 10th day of Janu- "ni the John Deere Plow company
ary next ensuing, without any charge against Fred Taylor have been dis
for collection but 4 per cent collec- missed, having been on the calendar
tion fee will be charged nnd collected more than one year,
upon all taxes remaining unpaid on ' A decree has been granted in the
said 10th day of January. divorce case of Charlotte against
Collection hours will be from 9 a. Claude Kelley. He is 20 and she is
m. to 4 p. m. A. T. Wright, Treas- 20 years old. The wife is given the
urer of City of Owosso. Adv. I custody of the eight-year-old daugh-
v - . ter, and $0.50 a Aveek alimony.
In preparation for the Tabernacle s- Q- Pulvcr, one of the attorneys
meetings to be held in this city, union for the defendants in the case of
prayer meetings will be held each Hall against Van Slyke and Henry,
Tuesday evening during this month at f Durand, filed a bond with the court
sixteen residences scattered about the r a stay of proceedings. Mr. Ball
city, the first on Tuesday, next. The ws struck by an auto driven by
union mid-week service held last Henry Loasing and said to be owned
evening, in the Evangelical church y the defendants. Ball was given a
was well attended and showed the judgment. A motion will bo made for
earnest spirit of the people toward the n new trial, and if not granted the
movement. The meeting next Thurs- defendants will appeal to the supreme
day will be held in the Disciple court. . ..
hurchr Union services will be held, Capt naroll A name w,n Rfrve
uyUy evening in the lmt M. K nere from Texas Monday. W a fur
jreh, with Rev. A. Ostroth "3 "tl'elonsjh oP thirty day?. .It Is expected the
iachcr. Rev. B. G. iMattvon.w.il. ,.WHr M OVff b(?fore m furlongU
tihict ur.i pcvviros i:t Corunna. . , . .
i , . - exf ;rc3.
Study Food Values
Food provided for the family table de
: serves the careful thought o every ; house
wife. Do you use thought when buying
baking powder? ' s
The quality of cake, biscuits " and . all
quickly, raised .flour, 'foods depends largely
upon , the kind of baking powder used.
. Royal Baking Powder is made from
cream of tartar derived from grapes.. It is
absolutely pure and has proved its excel
. lence for making food of finest quality and
wholesomeness for generations. '
Royal Baking Powder contains no alum
nor phosphate. '
ROYAL BAKING POWIDER CO,
New York
Organize for Revival.
The second of the scries of union
church meetings to be held from now
until tho tabernacle meeting begin
at New Year's, was held at the Cong
regational church Sunday evening. A
congregation that filled the auditor
ium and lecture room heard Rev. J.
Frank Green, of the Church of Christ,
preach an excellent sermon. The
Congregational choir rendered music.
After the services the committees
recently named to have charge, of the
work during the religious campaign
met and elected chairmen. Those elect
ed were: Executive committee, E. O.
Dewey, chairman; L. O. Underwood,
secretary; building committee, W. J.
Blood; personal work committee, Ar-
thur Alliton; finance committee, O. Ti
Ca'rnpbcll ; publicity ' cbuimittcc,' KevM
II. A. aitc; usher's committee, E. F.
ilenn oninrtoinninnf nn.nmiff.vn
y k Hmvardi
At the regular monthlv meeting of
the Shiawassee County Ministerial
. association held Monday an invitation
ivc me meeting ot the ministerial
association, attended by 18 ministers
of the county, 'Rev. B. G. Mattson
read a paper on archeology. A spirit-
0(1 discussion of the subject followed
CIRCUIT COURT
The case of LaVerne Spease of
Owosso against the Fox & Mason Fur
niture Co., of Corunna, has been on
the calendar 'for several months, and
the court gave the attorneyjfor the
plaintiff until the May term to try
the case. If no action is taken by
that time the case will be dismissed,
The case of Barbara against Godfrey
Wildermuth for separate maintenance
was 'dropped. The divorce cases of
Hattic against Joseph Ball nnd Fred
W. Hubbard against Kathcryn Hub-
hard will not he tried, ns it is under
stood that a reconciliation has heen
effected.
The attachment cose of Lizzie Van
Successful Honeywell Meetings in
Hastings.
The Hastings Banner says:
This week will close the Tabernacle
meetings and the Honeywell campaign
in Hastings. So far about 200 con
verts have been gained, most of whom
have indicated their church prefer
ences. The services last week were
interfered with by unfavorable weath
er .to some extent, but the interest
was steadily maintained, and convert
were gained each night. Sunday af
ternoon the Men's 'Brotherhoods of
the city met at the Methodist church
and marchd in a body down Green and
Jefferson streets and up through State
and Church streets to the tabernacle.
Dr. Honeywell gave a powerful ad
dress pjo'Thc1our. quarjc,v Man.'
hicli was listened" to with the closest
attention. In the" evening his sermon
was on "The Ten Commandments,"
and . was a heart-searching deliver
ance. " ' ' . .
Next Sunday the Honeywell cam
paign will close., There will be no
services at any of the five co-operating
churches Sunday morning, but
there will be a union seryice in tho
tabernacle. At 2:30 will be Dr. Hon
eywell's concluding address to the
men. The Brotherhoods will again as
semble at the Methodist church and'
march in a body and headed by.Kuen
zcl's band to the tabernacle. In the
evening the final service, of the cam
paign will, take place. Dr. Honey
well's sole compensation for his own
services will be the free-will offering
taken Sunday. From that he must
also pay half of the salaries of his
party, the other half being provided
lor in the general expenses. It is
hoped there may be a. very liberal of
fering. ,
Dr. Honeywell, Messrs. George,
Roberts and Spooner and Mrs. Daguo
have won a host of warm friends iu
this city. Their courteous bearing,
kindliness and fine spirit have not on
ly endeared them to all who have met
them but- have been a large factor iu
winning many to the Christian way.
They are sincere, fine-spirited Chris
tian folks, whom it is a pleasure to
meet.
Becomes Superintendent.
Jumes Mullaney will succeed W. J.
Donahue as superintendent of the plant
of the American Malleables Co. in this
city. Robert Gow and H. Bean are
also promoted as assistants. W. J.
Donahue who succeeded J. B. Carey as
superintendent here, has been trans
ferred to the Lancaster, N. Y. plant.
Notice of Annual Meeting.
Notice is hereby given that the an
nual meeting of the Shiawassee Mutnal
Fire Insurance Company . will be held
at the Court House In the City of Cor
nnna, on Thursday, January 4, 1917, at
11 o'clock a. m, for the purpose-of.
electing officers and to transact inch'"
other business as may propetly come
before the meeting. - .
Dated, Owosso. Mich., Nov. 80.1916.
Z. D. HURRELL,
E O. Dewey was in Battle Creek,
Mondsy, conferring with he officials '
of the Michigan Railway Co. regarding .
the extension of the electric line from
Owosso to Flint. The Company has ,
determined Upon the line It would pre'
fer to bold 'over and the propoelt'ou of v
ih right cf'way Is now np to the prop- ,
' .
eilj ow"ia iqt Beiueiaem.
