WEATHER. 10 . A ^ ?r ? ~ ?
V Fair tonipht and tomorrow: con- I B ^ w lvw"\ TOTT\ wTCMM tO mm 0/Tt
tinned cold with freexinE temperature M I fl B J ^ ^ .* .^^. .^J B y? W ???^~
rlsinK temperature tomorrow: B 1 IrA ^^B B^^P Bm^krV e^FB F /A R . ? ?
strons: fl A B 4fl V / V B B B T m \//J\' WithiTi the Hoar
Temperature for I B B w^B B B B B B B B B B I B B ?A B B JtjBA 1
p.m.: Highest, ^B 171 B WJ B B B^ B B B B B B B 0r B If B B ^ '
yesterday: lowest, 24, at T a.m. today. B B B. . X B. B ^L. ^ B B B B B B y B B. B B *
: [ , fl f . J inora Net Clmlatln. Health af Oeteher.
CLOSING NEW YORK STOCKS PAGE IS. I V- Y y ] ! , Dally Average. TUtll Baaday. hUTI.
No." 29.5(14. WASHINGTON, D. C., THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1916?TWENTY-TWO PAGES. ONE CENT.
HURRAHS, RED FIRE
AND BANDS TONIGHT
Plans Are Completed for Wilson
Parade and Big Election
Celebration.
WILL SERENADE PRESIDENT
Tonight Washington burns red fire i
;ind hurrahs for two hours in an effort
to let President Wilson know the town
is glad he is re-elected. From advance
accounts, the parade and jubilee
will beat anything of the kind within
the memory of living democrats or republicans.
The general scheme is a parade on
JVnnsyl vania avenue, starting from
the Peace Monument at S o'clock,
lighted by torches and other illumination.
and ending a.t ISth street and
Pennsylvania avenue, after a review
in the "court of honor" in front of the
White House.
In addition, there will be a grand
chorus of men and women, hundreds
of voices. They will serenade the
President and Mrs. Wilson.
And last, but not least, there will be
bands enough to satisfy the most ardent
admirer of march time as exploited
by puffing brass and heating
cymbal. i
A little touch of frost does not worry
the paraders. it seems. Instead of staying
home they will put on an extra thick
overcoat or something warm under their
long frocks, and with canes, high hats
and torches, emblematic of American politics
since the days of Henry <"lay, will
march down Pennsylvania avenue from
in** ick>t of me cupitoi 10 tne n nue
House, illumined by torches and gladdened
by the rhythmic thump of the bass
drum and the com-pah of the band.
*
To Keep Traffic Off the Avenue.
That this will be a parade worth seeing: .
is evidenced by the police regulations.
Maj. Pullman and his men will clean the j
Avenue of men. women, vehicles and
street cars shortly after S o'clock. The
great lane will be roped off, and woe to
the man who tries to duck through the
ropes without a special permit.
Tlo r*- will be thousands in the parade--some
on foot, some on horse?and
hundreds in automobiles, which will be
decorated to the gunwales in red, white
and blue bunting. There will be thousands
of men marching under the banners
of trade organizations; hundreds ,
of women with flags and horns. There i
will be transparencies bearing lighted
expressions of delight. There will be
government officials, city officials and
heads of big private concerns marching
on foot in rank with their employes.
John P. Tumulty, the President secretary.
will march on foot with the officers
of the Wilson and Marshall Democratic
Association. The Commissioners
of the District expect to be in
line, afoot, and marching.
High School cadets, college students.
Rov Scouts?all will turn out tonight i
and have been assigned places in the j
perade.
Parade to Start at 8 O'Clock.
11*5 man ?> nu *?m me woiu [q i
march" is Robert X. Harper, chief
marshal, who will have ninety or more
deputies to aid him in making: up the
iiuge column. He expects to give the
word at 8 o'clock. His aids will have
met him at the Peace monument at 6:30.
A squadron of mounted policemen will
sweep down the Avenue ahead of the ;
parade. The Wilson and Marshall Demo- j
ratio Association, headed by i .esident
"harles \Y. Darr and other officers, with
specially invited guests, will command
he column. This organization will be |
fallowed by the democratic central committee
arid democratic clubs. With this
section the Marine Band will march.
Hundreds of woman marchers will
oarade tinder the banners- of the Wornn
s Wilson Pninn. headed by the presi 1
nt. Mrs. Jarnes H. Poggs. and Mrs.
Marv W. Johnson, vice p~esiderit. A
woman herald, riding a spirited hors'.
a ill precede the bodv of the women's
s'-ction. There will be a line Qf riders.
h?*n an "American beauty' float, a
woman voters' sign twenty feet long,
a preparedness transparency, a section
of mar- hing women, a peace tallyno
of small children, and "Miss Democracy."
Accompanying the women
will be the Women's Wilson 1'nion ,
quartet. Mrs. Fannie Shreve HeartsiM. .
soprano: Miss Lillian Ohenoweth, con-i
'ralto: W. W Sorrell, tenor, and F. P.*
Jfeartsili, bass.
Women's League to Be in Line.
The Women's National Democratic i
league. Mrs. W A '"ullop. president,
rind the National Demo ratio Women of i
i
America. Mrs. George A. Amies. president;
the Southern States Women's Suf- i
fiaze f'onf? ren?-fc, Mrs. Weelv Martin !
Stoner. president, will be well repre- j
?ent?rd in the parade. j
Officers of rhe Mississippi Society
mad* announcement today inviting all?
Mississipi?:arii* in the city to join their,
section, which will occupy sightseeing
automobiles, n the parade. The mem- ;
bers and those who will appear with i
them in the parade have been requested
to meet at the Kbbitt House at 7:30.
Avenue to Be Cleared of Vehicles.
Pennsylvania avenue will be cleared
of street cars ami other vehicles short
ly Ik?for*; * o'clock. and by H wher^J
the parade begins to move forward, the I
polite expect tlie Avenue will be as
bare as it ;s on the days of inaugural :
parades The Avnue cars will run '
again beginning at 3 0:3?. I
1 ri addition, bureau of engraving cas? ,
running north arid south across the
Avenue at 14th street will be stopper!
in time, so as not to interfere with the
marchers They w : 11 run again after;
the parade has passed 14th street. City
hall ears on the Washington Railway
and Kleetrie Company lines will he
diverted so as not to interfere with the ;
forming sections of the parade.
B? eause tp*. automobile section will
i.e able to mobilize rapidly, it has
been announced that any motorist may
eute? if his machine top is down ami
he has decorations and arrives at the
ast fro?tt of the Capitol by 7 o'clock.
The marshal of this section is Guv S.
W h 11 ?-f-.; d. If is aids are Dr. M. J'
Ruilis. I. W Cray. Kenneth W. Ogdeh, !
G. W. I?avis. W Gilbert Dent, G. C. '
l*e;tr< e. Kar l Kdgarton. Albert J At- I
kirisoii Robert K Greer. .Theodore V
Gill, jv , W A Ward.-* Bert Robertson.!
Albert R. Smith. William Willis. John'
Graham. Nathan Waffle. Pearce Newman
and I'. R. Marshall.
Aids to Report at 6:30 Tonight.
The chief marslftil's orders require
that his ai?is shall report at the Peace'
monument at 6:30 promptly. They will
be given badges and will receive instructions.
After this the president
and officers of the Wilson and Marshall
Democratic Club, the central democratic
comrnitte. the chief marshal and.
aids will go to the reviewing stand in
front of the White House.
* Further orders issued by the chi'ef
tContiaued on Fourteenth Page.)
- *
PUN TO EXPEDITE
EIGHT-HOUR SUIT!
j Department of Justice Expect
ed to Appeal the First Decision
Rendered.
WOULD ASK ADVANCEMEN"
Early decision by the Supreme <"oui
of the United States- of one of the rail
road suits attacking constitutionalit
of the eight-hour law probably will b
sought by the Department of .Justice
. An appeal probably will be made i
I the first case decided in the hope tha
the Supreme Court may be able, to pas
judgment as near as possible to .Ian
uary 1. when the law would become ef
fective if not suspended by injunction.
A decision in the highest court woul
be binding on all lower federal court
and might dispose of all other suit:
The department's policy has not bee
finally settled, but it was said toda
that this course is being considere
and probably would be followed. If a
appeal is taken the court would b
asked to advance the case, and in viei
of its importance officials feel tha
such a motion would be granted, sine
such procedure is not unusual.
Suits by Thirteen Railroads.
Suits attacking; the constitutionalit
of the Adamson law have been file
by thirteen railroads. A number o
other roads have given notice tha
they would take similar action.
The roads which have filed suit are
Atchison, Topeka and Sante F*e, hear
ing set for November 23 at Kansa
City. Kan.; Missouri^ Pacific, hearing a
St. Louis, November 27; Chicago. Bur
lington and Quincy, hearings at Si
Louis. November 27; at Chicago, De
cember 4, and at Lincoln, Neb.. Novem
her 25; Louisville and Nashville, hear
ings, at Louisville, Ky., November 2S
and in court of eastern district of Ken
tucky, November 18; Chicago, Grea
Western, hearing at Chicago, Decembe
4; Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific, re
ceiver. hearing at Chicago. December 4
Illinois Central, hearing at Chicago De
cember 4; Union Pacific, hearing a
Kansas City. Kan., November 23, am
another at Omaha. Neb., date not set
Pennsylvania railway, hearing at Phila
delphia December 6; Chicago and East
ern. hearing not set; New York Centra
hearing at New York, date not set; th
Chicago and Alton hearing, at Chicag
December 4; Chicago and Eastern, hear
ing at Chicago,December 4.
Hearing- Involves Several Suits.
The Manistee and Northwestern i
expected to file suit at Grand Rapids
Mich.
The hearing at Chicago. December 4
will involve the suits filed by the Chi
cago and Alton, Illinois Central, Chi
cago and Eastern, Chicago Grea'
Western, the Chicago, Rock Island an<
Pacific, and the Chicago, Burlingtor
and Quincy railroads.
EXPLOSION KILLS 150;
WOUNDED NUMBER 65G
Blast on Russian Ammunition
Steamer at Archangel Does
Great Damage.
LONDON, November 16.?The Stork
holm newspaper Afton Tidriingen say
that some days ago an explosion oc
curred on the Russian ammunitioi
steamer Bron Breceni at the Russia!
seaport of Archangel, causing th<
death of 150 persons and the woundinj
jf >>.">0 others, according to a dispatcl
from the Swedish capital to the Ex
change Telegraph Company.
Thf Bjiron Rrccpni urtA ur>n\y.c.
steamer, the dispatch adds, were de
stroyed. Several buildings near th
harbor and two barracks were set oi
fire and burned down.
LUIS MUNOZ RIVERA DIES
FOLLOWING AN 0PERATI0l\
Was Founder and Leader of Unionis
Party in Porto Rico and Resident
Commissioner Here.
SAN Jl AN. for to Rico, November If
I.ois Munoz Rivera, for six years Port'
Ri'-an resident commissioner at Wash
ington arid founder and leader of tie
^unionist party in Porto Rico, died las
night He was born fifty-eight year
ago. Seiior Rivera had been ill sin<-<
the adjournment of f'ongress atid re
?enlly uriderwent an operation.
For thirty years Senor Rivera took ;
prominent part in Porto Rban affair*
In the Spanish days he was frequentl,
placed in jail for opposing the govern
rnent. Finally as the result of his ef
forts he won a large degree of auton
omous go\eminent for the island, be
corning president of the cabinet shortl
before the Spanish-American war.
Recently Senor Rivera had advocate<
in ?'o':gress American citizenship fo
Porto Ricans well as a plan fo
! greater self-government.
Mr Rivera was one of the best know
men in the island, prominent in the home
rule movement and the founder of th
party which has been numerically th
strongest political division in Porto Rica
affairs. He was a member of the pro
visional cabinet of Porto Rico. His tirs
visit to Washington, soon after th
Spanish-American war. was in the in
terest of the farming interest of th
island.
I tor he founded the Porto Hie
Herald in New York city and puh
li>bed it for four years.
The federal party, which Came Int
existence after the war, dissolved i
J 904.
Mr. Rivera had been active in it
affairs, ami he continued his politic*
leadership at the head of the nei
unionist party, and at the time of hi
death still was its leader. He was
! member of the legislature of his islan
for three terms, and was sent to Wash
ington as commissioner in 1910 by a
enormous majority, which he Increase
. in succeeding elections. He leaves hi
! wife and one son.
Col. J. P. Bradley Withdraw*.
' ? BOSTON. November 16.?Col. J. Pay
son Bradley of this city today an
nounced the withdrawal of his candi
dacy for commander-in-chief of th
<;rattd Army of tile Republic. Co
Bradley said that as the national en
campment would he held in this cltj
he thought it unfair to ask the dele
Kates to vote for a Massachusetts ma
for the highest office in the order.
6
TRANSFER DECISION
i OF 1914 PREVAILS
I
-Utilities Commission Holds
There Is No Law Requiring
Reciprocal Issue.
r QUESTION IS ONE OF RATES
!
t ; There is no law requiring free re
t eiprocal transfers on Washington's
y . street railway lines.
o j This declaration by the public utili?.
ties commission in 1!?14 was reiterated
n ' today by the commission, in answer !
t to the petition tiled yesterday by the j
s Federation of Citizens' Associations'
- urging immediate action on the trans- 1
fer agitation.
The federation takes the position that !
<1 the act of Congress of August 1, 18114.
s requires the street railway companies
i of the District to enter into reciprocal!
y j transfer relations, and that the reason
d j they have not done so is because the j
n ! act does not provide a penalty. It >
vj further asserts that the law creating ;
tithe utilities commission requires that
e body to enforce all laws previously
passed relating to public utilities, and,
therefore, it should put into effect the !
law of 1S94.
y Interprets Law Differently.
^ The commission's interpretation of j
this law does not agree with that of ;
the federation. It points out that the ,
law does not state that free reciprocal j
transfers shall be issued between the j
lines of the traction companies.
The commission first stated its posi- j
tion in the matter June 2L\ 1914, in a
lfttpr to I'harips \V Darr. chairman of i
the citizens* conference on public utili- I
ties. It then said: '
"The commission finds no law on the j
statute books requiring universal freei
" transfers, and under the authority and
responsibility conferred by its organic
r_ act to enforce all existing laws the
" commission is therefore unable to require
the street railway companies to
^ issue free transfers.
. "The commission is clearly of the
. opinion, however, that under the genj
eral authority granted by its organic
~ act it has power to require the issuance
of free transfers, provided it bases
' such an order on equitable grounds. I
0 The commission does not feel t' at it j
has a sufficient knowledge of the equities
of the case until the condition of J
the street railway companies is thoroughly
known, which will be the case
as a result of the valuation of their
s properties now being made under the
provisions of the urgent deficiency act,
'* approved April 6, lfil4."
No Change in Position.
This was the position of the com
mission at the time former Engineer
t Commissioners Harding was chairman
1 of that body. Engineer Commissioner
Kutz, the present chairman, said today
that the commission's position
remair/ed the same. The universal
transfer question, he said, is a rate
question, and cannot be settled until
| after the valuations have been com pleted.
Officials of the two street railway
. M-ith fh*. niihlip utili.
' viin?annrr, ...... ,
L 1 ties commission in its interpretation I
of the law of 1894.
S. R. Bo wen, secretary of the Washj
ington Railway and Electric Company,
said today that if Congress had meant
I by this law to require competing:,
i street car companies to enter into
_j free reciprocal transfer relations it
I obviously long ago would have taken
3 steps to enforce compliance with the
- i law.
i ' '
! Purely a Rate Question.
e| Officials of the Capital Traction f.'om*
i pany would make no statement regardi
ing the petition filed by the federa
j tion, other than to state that there
has been no change in their position,
r j already expressed to the commission,
" that the law of 1S94 does not require
j the exchange of fre6 transfers between
i competing lines.
1 Conrad H. Syrne, general counsel of
the utilities commission, said that he
agreed entirely with the opinion ren:
dered by th?* late E. H. Thomas, former
I general counsel of the commission, r
1 that this law not only does not rei
quire free transfers, but that the
: transfer matter is a rate question
t which only can be settled on the basis
of the valuations now being established
for street railway companies.
A. F. OF L. TO ORGANIZE
NEGROES OF THE SOUTH
^ Migration to Northern Labor Cen
f ters Brought Before 'Convention
s
e Being Held in Baltimore.
}:.\ 1/riAIOKK. Novfinbwr lt?.?The
1 ' emigration of southern negroes to
northern labor renters was brought to
^ i the attention of the convention of the
American Federation ?>f Labor today
i when the eointnittee on organization rei
ported favorably a resolution designed
to eliminate what was chara? terized
1 as a "menace to the workers in the
I J northern states."
r i The resolution, which subsequently ,
r ' was adopted by the coii vent ion. was >
j framed by members of Ohio federa- j
n ! tions. It recited that the investigation
i of such emigration and importation of
0 negroes 111 the state of Ohio had deme
onstrated to the satisfaction of labor
,, . leaders in that state that they were j
being brought north for the purpose of
,t tilling the places of union men demand- j
f. ing better conditions, as in the case of
freight handlers.
e Believing that "the conditions that!
' prevailed in Ohio may apply in all
0[ northern states,' the president and ex- ,
i ecutive council of the federation were {
i ii v.t riw-twi to iiiauuuratc a movement
o looking toward the organization of ?en
tiroes in the southern states.
" Mr. Bryan Sitting for Portrait.
,v NKW YORK. November 16.?A New :
^ York artist is painting a portrait of
d William Jennings Bryan to hang on !
- the walls of the Department of State
n at Washington beside the portraits of
'' other former Secretaries of State. Sevis
eral months ago Mr. Bryan was asked
to ttnd an artist to paint his portrait,
hut campaigning in the west caused a
i postponement of tiie search until he
? ame to New York alter election.
Conservation of Paper
e Kvery citizen is called upon 10 see
, that not a pound of paper is wasted.
Demand from every clerk that any
unnecessary wrapping of packages
V, be dispensed with.
If you have no further use for tori
day's newspaper save It for the
school playground fund.
?
- _M ji i<_
( If i.i" "
t '
nms?
25,000 U. S. TROOPS El
ARE TO MANEUVER
Rei
Militiamen and Regulars on
Border to Form "Brown"
. - ? and
"White" Armies. E
nee
mei
"INVASION" TO BE OBJECT ?a
Htr<
Tra
By tn<* Associated Press. r>ui
BROWNSVILLE, Tex., November 16. ^r*
Twenty-five thousand soldiers, compris- tra<
ing national guardsmen from nine states to '
and several regular army organization*, l!
today began what army officers declare < on
to be the most extensive maneuver at- sar
tempted since the coming of the National ?,>e
Guard to the Mexican border. The sol- XUK
di*-rs are about equally divided into two j I,'n
armies, one to be known as ' the Brown ; *on
army" and the other as "the White wll<
army." j wot
The invading force, "the Brown army." j
is to try to wrest a large section of not'
territory known as the "lower Itio j l^e
Grande valley" from "the White army," j cal'^
the defending force, which is to be stationed
in the neighborhood of Llano <
Grande, forty-six miles west of Browns- j
vilie. The territory in which the armies ! ^
are to be active is bounded on the east !
by the Gulf of Mexico, on the south by '
the Rio Grande, on the north by Mar- j the
lingen, twenty-nine miles north of j by
Brownsville, and on the west by Llano tod
Grande Camp, seventeen miles west of j 'j'l
Harlingen. "The Brown army" probably |
will be in command of Brig. Gen. H. A.
Allen of tlu Iowa brigade, and will in- the
< hide the following organizations: | nea
Infantry- 1st Brigade. Iowa Infantry; | t||<4
1st and _'d Regiments, Virginia Infantry; !
4th and 36th United States Infantry. j tow
<"avalry?L'd Squadron 3d I'nited States BCavalry:
1st Provisional Regiment, | s.
Brownsville Division, including A Troop, j j)as
New Hampshire Cavalry; Troops A. B wjl
and C. 1st Virginia Cavalry, known as bj*
the Richmond Blues; A, B and C Troops, ]
1st Colorado Cavalry. .
Artillery First Battalion. Iowa Ar- j .
tillery; D Battery, 4th I'nited States ; 1
Field Artillery, and F Battery, 5th , ^
United States Field Artillery. j ol*,
Auxiliary troops?A, B and F com-j
nanies. 1st United States Engineers; j
D company, Signal Corps, I". S. A.: Am-I wjj
bulance Company No. 5, 1st Company, I tj)e
Iowa Engineers; 1st Iowa Ambulance;
Company; 1st Iowa Field Hospital; j va}.
Louisiana Field Hospital and Texas
Field Hospital.
Make-Up of "White Army." RE
The "White Army" probe hiv will be
in command of Brig. Gen. F. M. Lewis,
commanding the 1st Brigade. Minnesota
Infantry^ and will include the follow- x_Ji
UXK Her
Infantry?1st. 2d and 3d Minnesota,
1st. 2d and 3d Indiana, 1st North f?re
Dakota, 1st Oklahoma and 4th South den
Dakot^'i. Cha
Cavalry ? 2d Provisional Cavalry
Regiment, including Iowa Squadron and ) con
Kansas troops and 1st Squadron, 3d j tha
United States Cavalry, and Troops A; crai
and B. Oklahoma Cavalry. j Sn
Artillerv ? A C urifi 1") batteries. In-I
cliana Field Artillery; 1st Battalion, &ar|
Louisiana Field Artillery, and A, B. C, whi
1) and K batteries. 1st Regiment. Min- c.e|v
nesota Field Artillery. van
, Auxiliary troops?A Company, In- Seni
diana Signal Corps; 1st and 2d Indiana leac
ambulance companies; 1st Indiana Can
Field Hospital; 1st Nebraska Field
Hospital; A Company, Nebraska Signal -
Corps; 1st Oklahoma Field Hospital,
and A Company, Oklahoma Engineers.
All rules of warfare will be observed.
Towns are to be "captured" and manufacturing
plants of various kinds
"seized."
The town. Point Isabel, with its
United States radio station is within
the area of warfare.
Little Change in Mrs. Boissevain.
LOS AN'OET.FS. fal., Xov.mbtr 16.?
Rittle change was reported today in
the condition of Mrs. Inez Milholland
Boissevain, New York suffragist,
whose dangerous anemia was complicated
yesterday by the development of
pleurisy.
b. /
:'^S' ' 1 ?
w__ ]: Jl
wM^/y^.;/////'l. J/jLk
////- "?s
THE RACE.
GHTPUBLIC SCHOOLS
URGENTLY NEED C0A1
quests for Immediate Deliveries
Hade?District to Advertise
for 1,000 Tons.
light public schools were in urgent
d of coal today. Requests for imJiate
deliveries were made of M. t*.
rgrove, purchasing officer, by the C
eet Vocational, Armstrong Manual
lining. Eastern High, Bell, Dennison,
nner, Arthur and Morgan schools.
Hargrove was informed by the con[ tors
that deliveries would be made
:he schools during the day.
f the coal shortage situation beles
more serious it may be necesy,
in order to keep all the schools
n, to transfer coal from one buildto
another. Mr. Hargrove is plants
(n tali- i>l,'..rti?o f -.1 lllltl
s of coal. He expressed doubt as to
ether any dealer in Washington
lid undertake to sup;;*;.- this amount
fuel, but the attempt will be made
withstanding. Bids will be opened at
District building Monday. But one
load of coal consigned to the District
eminent arrived today.
Unable to Get Soft Coal.
ecause soft coal is not now available
lie schools of the District of Columbia
1 have to use hard coal, at least for
present, according to word received
ollicials of the educational system
ay.
Ms new angle presents another seis
phase which has already kept
officials worried. Hard coal costs
rly twice as much as soft coal, and
finances of the schools already are
ecause of the dilliculties of getting
icient coal the entire school system
been threatened for several weeks
h a fuel famine. No one has been
e to state just how serious this
flit become, but it is known that in
event of a prolonged cold snap a
;e number of buildings would have
close within a week,
ow, however, the schools face not
y the danger of not being able to
coal, but also the danger that, if
y do get it, within a short time they
i he unable to pay for it, because of
doubled price which - it will be
essary to give for the. anthracite
leiy.
PUBLICANS STILL LEAD
FOR CONTROL OF HOUSE
iiofficial figures on the Hou:.e of
resentatives in the Sixty-fifth Conss
today gave the republicans 217,
locrats 212 and six scattering,
irman Dorenius of the democratic
gressional committee still maintains
t the final result will give the demoLs
enough to ei^ct Champ Clark
aker and form the committee orizations.
The closest district, from
ch final returns have not been reed.
is the thirty-second Pennsyl
ia, where me repuoncan, rcepretative
Barchfeld, now is said to be
lin>e his democratic opponent, Guy
.ipbell, by eleven votes.
For Better and
Cheaper Markets
An authority on the
subject in the Department
of Agriculture tells of the
government's efforts to
reduce the cost of foodstuffs
to woman buyers.
Yod will find this article
in The Sunday Star.
__i / ?_ i .
"-'i_ZiLi__jcz:
irrz* ~3cr~-irirnruzITiC:
'
ii ij ?
PRESIDENT DENIES
! SELFTOVISITORS
| This Is "Tell-lt-to-Tumulty"
Week at the White House for
Men "Who Carried Election."
' MR. WILSON IS VERY BUSY
This is "tell-it-to-Tumulty" week at
the White House owing to the adherence
of President Wilson to a program
of secluding himself in his study and
| seeing- no visitors except a iew caoinet
j officers and others he has been compelled
to talk briefly with.
"I did it" has been the refrain Mr.
, j Tumulty has listened to since his re,
! turn to Washington last Saturday,
j "My speeches in the west" simply took
j the people off their feet; "that article I
. I wrote" carried Ohio for Wilson; "the
! people listened to me with great eager,
' ness all through the west"; "I knew
| that trick 1 turned on 'em in California
| would do the job," and a hundred other
things the President's secretary has
listened to. He has borne up under it
with fortitude, feeling that so long
: as he could keep these callers away
from the President and allow Mr. Wilson
a little rest he was doing his duty.
Preparing for the Hush.
All the "I did it" boys are expected
back in the course of time with recommendations
for appointments either for
themselves or for others in whom they
are interested. Mr. Tumulty knows
this and is preparing for the rush that
will come later.
President Wilson today held off from
contact with would-be callers and
worked upon personal correspondence,
pressing official business and portions
of his coining address to Congress.
The President's closest advisers would
like to induce him to go to Hot Springs
j or elsewhere and t;iKe a rest oi a we# k
! or ten days, but he has resisted this
i idea so far. Since his return he has
i played golf several afternoons with
J Mrs. Wilson and enjoyed the exercise
in . the open,
i "Mother" .Jones, known and loved
j throughout the labor world, called at
; the White House today to convey her
j congratulations to President Wilson
"upon our great victory." She saw
I Secretary Tumulty, who promised to
i deliver the message to the President.
! #
MISSING ON LAKE ERIE.
,!
j Two Men in Speedboat Are Given Up
for Lost.
! TOLKDO, Ohio, November 16.?Missing
[since 11 o'clock Tuesday morning, two
men in Commodore Charles B. Greening's
speedboat, the Baby Rambler. ;
Clint Wynn, thirty-four, and Schuyler
Bartholomew, seventeen, have been i
given up for lost.
The men started in the teeth of a gale '
to drive the craft from Monroe, twenty :
mtles away, to Toledo, for dry dock.
! and have not been heard from since,
j Tugs which searched the lake between
j here and Put-in-Bay yesterday after;
noon failed to tiiul a trace of the. men
J or the boat.
The Baby Rambler was one or thi fastI
est semi-hydronlanes on the great
i lakes and had been a contender in In
terlake Yachting: Association regattas
J since she was built five years ago.
Zeebrugge and Ostend Shelled.
IjONDON. November 16.?The harbors
and submarine shelters at Zeebrugge
and Ostend have been again heavily
bombarded by squadrons of naval airplanes
and seaplanes. Direct hits were
observed in the Atelier de la marine
and in proximity to the power station.
A large fire probably from the petrol'
store was observed. All the machines
returned safely.
^. ... ...." ..
IMS DRAW NEAR
MONASTIR AS ENEM)
C0NTINUESRETREA1
French and Russians Within ^
and Serbs 10 Miles of
Important City.
iiiw tin i i apa nriirn
MMIMT VILLAUti SDIAtU
BY ADVANCING ARMIES
British, After Brilliant Engagemen
on Struma Front, Wrest
Karakaska From Bulgars.
Br the A?Horiat??d Press.
LONDON, November 16.?In Ma^edoni
the entente allies are winning furthe
successes in their campaign for Monas
tir. In their flanking movement o
the east they have advanced far int
the Cerna river bend region to withi
about ten miles of the town, forcing th
Germano-Bulgarian forces back an
menacing the lines of the Teutonic al
lies on the plain to the south, wher
the French and Russians are maKin
substantial progress, now being reporte
by Paris as within four miles of Monas
tir. The Germans and Bulgarians ac
mit withdrawals in the Cerna rive
region.
Franco-Serbian troops, continuing the!
success north of Tep^vtsi have mad
progress in the direc tion of Yarashok.
oeverai villages vtxupicu.
h'ranco-Russian forces pursuing th
enemy in the plain to the north o
Kenali. have reached the right bank c
the River Yiro, six kilometers (fou
miles) south of Monastir.
The allied forces have occupied th
villages of Jabyani. Porodin and Velush
ina (near the Viro. south of Monastir
Tepavtsi and Guiles.
On the Struma front British force
have captured, after a brilliant engage
ment. the village of Karakaska. on th
eastern side of Lake Takinos. The Bu
garians are withdrawing on the left ban
of the Brook of Xihor.
French Gain Around Kenali.
Telegraphing from the headquartet
of the French army at Saloniki, und<
! date of November 17>. the corresponder
j of Reuter's Telegram Company says:
I "Yesterday the French, Russian an
j Italian forces, operating west of th
; River Cerna. attacked the enemy
lines during a rainstorm. Despil
strenuous opposition the French caj
tured the whole systepi of defem
around Kenali, which also fell in'
French hands.
"Fighting at some places was vei
desperate, the men being up to the
necks in water and mud.
"During the night the enemy count
attacked, recovering a portion of tl
trenches, but early this morning 1
abandoned the whole of his front lin<
retiring upon the Bistrica river."
Mackensen Is Burning
V/!llonoc in Datraai
vmaygo in nun i/ui
Through the Dobrudj;
By th#* Associated Press.
LONDON, November 16.?Field Mai
shal von Mackensen's army in the Ru
manian province of Dobrudja is in re
treat, the Petrograd war office ar
nounces today, burning villages as :
falls back.
Increasing pressure by the Russc
Rumanian army in Dobrudja, whic
rallied after its severe defeat by vo
Mackensen last month, has been in evi
dence for several days. Bucharest re
ported a further advance yesterda
toward the important Tchernavoda
Constanza railroad, which the Teutoni
allies captured in their drive. Berli
today entered a denial of the Ruman
ian claim and in its reports on th
Dobrudja campaign chronicled only en
counters between advanced detach
ments.
Rumanians Retire.
Rumania's forces operating in south
ern Transylvania yesterday retire
toward Areful and Radacinesti, in th
Alt valley, and in the direction of Capa
cioasa. in the Jiul valley, according t>
an official statement issued today b;
the Rumanian war department. Berli]
reports the capture of 1,200 prisoners ii
the Rothenthurm and Szurdk regions.
Russian troops in strong force at
laCKeu lilt; rtuaiiu-uciinaii linen ca.->
of the Putna valley on the wester!
Moldavian border, the w:y office an
nounced today in its statement on th?
campaign against the Rumanians. Tin
attacks were fruitless, the announce
rnent declares. Another aerial attacl
on Bucharest was made Tuesday morn
ing by eight German airplanes, Reuter'
Bucharest correspondent reports
Twenty-live bpmbs were dropped, kill
j ing four civilians and wounding
j twenty.
j VANDERBILT RACE ON;
TWENTY-ONE ENTERED
I SANTA MONICA, Cal.. November 16.|
Twenty-one automobile racing drivers
j including the leaders in national com
j petition, were ready for the starter'.*
j flag at noon today, in the eleventh Van
| derbilt cup road race over the 8.4oi-mil<
j triangular boulevard course for thirtyfive
circuits, a total distance of "JO-BOoC
j niiirn.
! Besides the cup and prize money
! there was at stake for the winner ! <><
points in the season's American Automobile
Association's competition foi
the title of "master driver of the
world." and $13,."?nn, in which Johnny
Aitken has a lead of 1140 points over
Dario Resta.
Fair weather, with a slight high fog
promised good conditions for the Ions;
grind, and there were expectations ol
breaking the record of 7.1.0 miles an
hour, established on the same course
by de Palma, winner in 1014.
Heads German Aerial Forces.
LONDON. November 16.?Lieut. Gen.
von Hoepper has been placed in command
of the new aerial forces board
of Germany, according to an Amsterdam
dispatch to Reuter's quoting an
official Berlin announcement. The newboard
has control of all aviation and
anti-aircraft requirements of the German
army and has been formed in recognition
of th^ increasing importance
of aerial warfare.
*
. . ** ?
ATTACKS ARE SWIFT
f IN SOMME REGIONS
AS BATTLES GO ON
I- Germans Capture Part of Saillisel
and Trenches at St.
Pierre-Vaast Wood.
FRENCH HAVE RETAKEN
5 POSITION NEAR CHAULNES
i
t King George of England Sends Congratulations
to Gen. Sir
Douglas Haig.
I'v f!ir? Asunriatffl I'ri-M.
a I A)N DON. November 16.?Fighting in
r | the Somnie region of northern France
.. shows little diminution in intensity, with
n i attack and counter attack following
0 swiftly.
n The British advance in the Ancre region
seems to have halted. Bondon anj
nounces only artillery activity during the
_ night. Berlin, however, reports heavy ate
! tacks by the British yesterday, notably
^ j the one on the village of Orandcourt.
d . which is declared to have broken down.
5_ | Attacks on Germans on the road from
[> j Mailly to ?ene also are said to have
r ' failed.
The successes against the French scorr
] ed by the Germans north of the Somme
e I yesterday are reported by Berlin today,
i They consisted, according to the state|
ment, in the capture, in house-to-house
' fighting, of the eastern section of the
e village of Saillisel, where the French
if : were menacing the German positions in
if : the St. Pierre-Vaast wood, and of French
r | trenches on the northern edge of this
! wood.
e For their part, the French reacted
i. against the Germans south of the Somme.
?, | near Chaulnes, where a German counter
attack was announced yesterday to have
s wrested a part of the vilu-ge of Pressoire
i from French possession. The French re- .
e ; captured this ground last night, Paris
1- announces in today's official bulletin,
k |
Describes Recent Fighting.
In describing the most recent fighting.
| Paris says:
"South of the Somme we made an at r
tack during the night against the eastern
it portion of Pressoire, which had been occupied
by the enemy. Here the French
troops had resisted with admirable
" energy. Thanks to this tenacity, coupled
ie with the determination of our troops,
s we drove the Germans from the village.
At the end of a ferocious fight, under a
3_ bombardment of extreme violence, Presie
soire is now entirely in our possession,
to and our gains of November 7 have beon
in all respects maintained.
-v "According to recent information, the
ir enemy, who brought forward to take
part in this attack forces belonging to
,r three different division, suffered very
\e heavy losses as a result of the serious
,e check we put upon him.
"West of the Rheims a surprise attack
on the part of the enemy upon one of
our trenches, following a preparatory artillery
tire, resulted in failure under our
curtain of fire."
King Sends Congratulations.
King George today telegraphed con3
gratulations to Gen. Sir Douglas Haig.
British commander in France, upon "the
1 great success" of the last few days, re"
j fleeting credit on all ranks. Gen. H&ig
I replied with a message of thanks.
- i Tactical Position Better,
I But British Gain Is Not
h Decisive, Say Germans
" BERLIN, November 16.?Several mlli'
tary critics, discussing the British gains
v on the Ancre in the newspapers, recogl
nize that they resulted, in part at least,
c in a betterment of the tactical position
" for which the British are striving, but
e declare that the effect is merely local
- and in no sense decisive.
Maj. von Schreibeshofen, writing in
the Mittag Zeitung, says that the German
supreme command undoubtedly
reckoned upon such developments when
11 it decided to concentrate its efforts in
e the Rumanian theater and leave in the
west only the forces absolutely neces0
sary to maintain the defensive. Maj.
Moraht, in the Tageblatt, finds in the
events the text for a homily on the ne1
cessity of bending every effort to stimui
late the production of munitions. He
says:
"The general strategic situation in
" the west is not decisively affected, dux; . .
t the possibility that the British may
, succeed in broadening the breach to
the northward is not without impor;
tance. * * * The British army command,
g by its push on the 13th, after submitting
our salient to a heavy fire from
c the west and southwest, has gained
ground to the northeast along a front
g about ten kilometers broad. Beaucourt.
. Beaumont-Hamel and Hebuterne lie
west of our fpont. and we are able to
~ hold Grandcourt, from which our lines
' now bend to the north and southeast."
Discounts Enemy Endeavor.
Maj. Moraht declares that German
. airplane superiority is steadily increas'
ing; that the French have been checked
at Sailly-Saillisel and at Verdun; that
. the ninth Italian offensive has come to
a standstill, after losses probably not
; less than those in the eighth, which, he
j says, cost Italy 100.000 men. and that
j while the Saloniki army of the entente
i is showing renewed activity, it has had
I no considerable success. He adds that
j the Turks, "who introduced real uni' ercal
sprvipp and whose armies are
i steadily increasing." are assisting tho
! Bulgarians along t.he Struma, where,
! he claims, the British have been check'
: ed. He concludes that Gen. von Falkenhayn
is making progress everywhere in
his operations on the Transylvanian
front, and that there are good pros[
pects for the campaign against Wallachia
and Moldavia.
; 400 Germans Surrender
to British Chaplain and
Sprinkling of Soldiers
(Copyright, 1916, by tbe Associated Press.)
WITH THE BRITISH ARMIES IN
FRANCE, November 16, via London.?
A British chaplain, while searching the
battlefield of the Ancre for wounded
hidden in the shell craters during the
British advance, accompanied by a few
soldiers, came upon an isolated trench
containing nearly 400 Germans, who
promptly surrendered.
The chaplain ordered the men to filo
i
i
