M M -f 4 S
__LD_ ___ RAL__
NO. 3681. W&iUT-sMI; WEST. WARHTNGTON, D C, THUESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1916. ONE (ET
WILSOI JUBILEE
PARADE TONIGHT
45,000 Marchers Ready for
Torch Pageant.
Washington's real welcome to Pr10
deat Wilso-4ts Jubilee and celebration in
homr of his victory-takes plae slt.
E1ety-bYe thousand marchers. bearing
red ights and waving banners. will par
ade Pennsylvania avguse from Jobs
Marshall Piace to the White House.
Twenty-five bands will play. and a caese
of sa voices will sing national airs and
Southern melodies as the parade enf
President Wilson. surrounded by his
'abbiet, their families, and hiaI5
friends, will review the parade frem the
White House. Chairman Vance McCor
mick. of the Democratic National Com
mittee. will arrive in Washington lae Is
day to be present at the White Houme
tonight when the celebration begins. See
retary to the President Tumuity will be
p in the line of march beside Charles W.
Darr and other officials of the Wilson
Marshall Democratic Association, under
whoe auspices the celebration will be
given.
AeVne Cars to stelp.
For th first time since the Dewey oele
bration, t'vnnsylvania Avenue ears will
stop running at night. The avenue will
be roped off after 7 o'clock tonight and
vehicles and pedestrians, other than
those In the parade, will be densad ad
mittance. The street car company will
not operate cars on the Avenue from the
Peace Monument to Eighteenth street
street northwest between 3:20 end 10:30
o'clock. Special squads of police, re-en
forced by 1,000 Boy Scouts. will maintain
order.
Wilson-Marshal Democratic Asso
catn will head the column. Its mem
bers and band will assemble tonight at 7
o'clock in front of National Rifles' Ar
mOry. G street northwest near Ninth.
31a urice O'Connor. sergeant-at-arms of
the organization. will have charge of the
marahaling of the club. The Marine
Hand will immediately precede the club,
mounted police to constitute the head of
the line. One thousand automobiles will
bring up the end of the line.
Political organizations from Virginia
and Maryland, State associations in the
rDisvct. and unattached bodies of private
itizens will follow next. Clerks in the
governrment departments and attache. of
embassies and legations who will take
part have a separate section reserved for
them.
To March Twenty Abreast.
Citizens in the line will march about
twenty abreast, It was announced by
the parade committee last night, after
a meeting in the office of Charles W.
1arr. where all plans were perfected
sd the order of parade formulated.
Automobiles will be driven eight
abreast. They will carry red, white
and blue hts and will bt dcorwrsV
with ther e-dheal eaors*~ 4d2y .
Whitford. chairman of the automobile
section. announced last night that all
owners of autemeblle., regardless of
political preference, would be welcome.
Automobiles are to assemble at the
plaza east of the Capitol and form for
the parade. They will take their part
in the parade at the Peace Monument,
after the column has been drawn up.
Chairman Walter J. Costello, of the
committee on music, reported last
night that every union band in the
citV had been engaged for tonight.-as
well as many private bands which
had volunteered.
The "western section" of the parade,
comprising voters from California,
who organised at the Women's Wil
snn League last night. as well as
other Western residents of the city.
will have a prominent place. They
will be led by Joseph J. O'Brien, a
in-mber of the California State Asso
efation. who first suggested the Idea of
a Western division In the line.
Late additions to the marching column
were announced last night. One of these
11 the Woodrow Wilson West Virginia
1iub. which will have John J. Cornwell.
F-nvernor-ei.-ct. to lead the members. The
Gteorgia Society Is another late addition
t,- the line of narch. It will meet at
TiNCED ON PAGE TWO.
FOODSTUFFS SHORTAGE
PUT UP TO PRESIDENT
George W. Perkins Charges Wilson Has
Evaded Issue.
far the laternatienal News Servlee.)
New York. Nov. 1S.-George W. Perkins,
chairman of Mayor Mitchel's food supply
commission today replied to President
Wilson's statement yesterday that the
high cost of living was "up to" the far
mers. In a letter to Gov. Whitman Mr.
Perkins said:
"Mr. Wilson's way of meeting the high
Cost of living Is quite in keeping with
the way he meets every issue, by side.
stepping it Or shifting the responsibility
to some one else.
"The fundamental trouble is that we
have not at Washington Or Albany _ or
New York City or anywhere else.'the
right kind of market departments. whose
bn it is to study the question of
fed supply, food distribution and food
esaamption in an intelligent, budness
We maanner and bring about Such so
fr in the methods of food distim
tie. as would bring about beneficial re
suits to both prodnoer and ceinsumer."
ST gAJEDDBYNYaES,
GAIN NAN ESCAPES
Rescuers Fiad H. E. Jackson FEzbaust
ed After Experience.
Ely. Mina.. Nor. IL-Lost in the Miae
seta wsed. e five days, durig whieb
he was gsamel eatinunsly by weae.
and we. eempeDe to keep moa dm
a tw-y biar. Herage 3, Jadeae,
wealihy CMsse ard ofTrade' tireberq
le s eQewig teday remnhin reame ine
last aoL
A tiny peint of flame, marking the
fire whisk be had built in a uighnss de.
eese aant the s.ubing wgelvs led a
badat the hnee et reeeus who
had bee. searching feer three dayn to th
- whs haer nd ebu ssewa
Fr Gis Pd m IGr
(By Intesastesm News sterv.s)
Cha.al.il. EL. N.a. ?.4mi5
Life Stearns' charge that In many
fashi.nmabe ris' schools, there are
"underground librarie" filled with
umwholo.me sex stares, was the
chief top" of discussion at the
linois Federation of Women's
Chlb conventimn today.
"In my niece's school, they placed
the books on the lower pan of the
looker in a place meant for rub
bers." said Miss Stearns. "As moon
as a girl got through with one book
she put It back and got another.
One book my niece brought home
was Three Week.--.
G. 0. P. GIVES UP
All Hope of Change in Califor
nia Virtually Abandoned.
(oy the Internatinal News servies.)
San Francisco. Cal.. Nov. 1L-Republio
an leaders In California this afternoon
virtually abandoned all hope that the
official Presidential count would throw
the State to Charles Evans Hughes. With
the count more than half completed and
In several counties wholly completed.
President Wilson's majority of over 3.
as shown by the unofficial returns vir
tually is unimpaired. Errors In the up
official tabulation are about balanced In
favor of Hughes and Wilson. neither
gaining or losing any considerable num
ber of votes.
In Los Angeles County Hughes has
made a toli net gain of 14 votes over
the unofficial figuree, but the votes In one
precinct, where 278 votes were cast with
only a total registration of z20, may oper
ate to throw out the entire precinct In
which case Hughes. who had a plurality
of 14 in the precinct will lose that num
ber.
In San Francisco. the count. nearly
completed late this afternoon. has
brought the President a net gain of 11
votes.
In Santa Vlnra County the completed
official tally gave Hughes a net gain of
five votes.
All other countIes are reporting that no
important errors have been found and
that from al indications there will be no
mnatrial difference between the official
and unoflel counts.
DAUiHTER OND DEAD;
7?LWCE HOLD PARENTS
Sister Also Implicated in Alleged Mur
der in Illinois.
Pontiac. Ill., Nov. 15.-Jacob C. Diemer,
wealthy retired farmer, his wife, ladie
Diemer. and his daughter. Magdalene,
were today formally charged with man
slaughter In connection with the mys
terious death of Christine Diemer, nor
mal school graduate, whose bruised body
was found In the Vermillion River.
All three were released on 810.00 ball
to await the action of the January grand
jury.
Diemer, a venerable man of 72. is weal
thy and owns much land.
Miss Diemer disappeared October '7.
The family said she had gone to Florida
to spend the winter. This week Mrs.
Frank Haines, while crossing the river
found the body. The girl's neck was
broken and the skull fractured. There
was no water In her lungs.
It developed today that the murdered
girl controlled the family finances. When
Coroner W. 0. Myers visited the farm
and asked for the dead girl's personal
papers, the father gave him two of his
own notes. one for $1,300 and the other
for $1.30, both made out to Christine. He
handed over also a check for $50 which
she had made payable to beS father.
700,000 BMIANS IDLE.
Berlin (via Sayville wirelese). Nov. 15.
Extracts from Dutch, French, and Bel
gian newspapers were given out by the
Overseas News Agency today showing
the widespread idleness in Belgium. One
Belgian paper placed the number of idle
working m-n at 1*kM saying they re
fused to work because they preferred to
live off relief money.
ENGLTSH PACIFIST ARRESTED.
The Hague, Nov. 1.-It was reported
from a British source today that Miss
Emily Hobbouse, well-known Englist
pacifist. has been arrested in England.
Miss Hobhouse made a trip through
Germany and Belgium In the interests oi
pesee, which caused much comment In
England. The matter was up for discus
sion several times in Parliament.
MS. IATCH WMN SMI.
Riverhead. N. Y., Nov. IL-Mrs. Har
ret gtantn Blatch, well- known New
York SufRagIst, was awarded SLO0 dam
ages by a jury here today for the death
of her husband. Her husband wan killed
by a live wire, whIch had fallen down
during the storm. Attorneys for the Port
Jefferson Electric Company the defend
snts. moved to set aside the verdict, but
decision was reserved.
SUGAR C0MPANT 00TB MEION.
Denver, Colo., Nov. K5-T'he Great
Western Sugar Comlpaar today out an
enormous mselon when the direotorg had
ed out to each holder et 20 *ares di
shares of stock as a dividsad. Thnis a.
ticn was taken en the shewing that the
company had acerned surplus as of date
Marck 1. 1NI4 .U41. The direoters
aso deolarnd the regulr dividend of lit
per ent In cash.
U-DOAT E~naE Uinun
Provideno, R. I.. Ney. I--A @
samarrne which may he waiting ts men
eer the Deutadn~an4vback to Ges ,ny is
Ineeted to he lylng ef the New Kelged
osast. The uMsceats and Maser' tier
Veward today pielhet np a wiseims mme
see believed a have been smtd ew-Ip a
k issowhip raesrtng te ses Of-e
the smasser -
WAI ON WILSON*
TO HIT BRITAIN
Retaliatory Measures on
Blackmail Ready for Action.
The administration has been prepared
for some time. it was stated on good
authority yesterday, to enforce Ae re
tallatory legislation authorized by Con
gresigainst Great Britain for ants be'
tile to America's foreign emmeree.
Only the order from Predident Wilne,
whose word is necessary to execute the
law, is required to set these retalatory
measures in motion. It was declared yes
terday that this government had no in
tention of receding from the position it
assumed In the State Department's black
list protest and that President Wilson
was determined to stand the ground taken
in that note..
The only question was believed to be
the manner In which the retaliatory ac
tion should be taken. Secretary of tate
Lansing, It was asserted, has' had for
several weeks the report of the State
Department Solicitor. Cona Johnson, eon
merating the acts of Great Britain which
are inimical to American interests. This
report also, It was said. indicates how
the laws ought to be enforced. .
Attention was directed yesterday to the
fact that the State Department in its
protest against the blacklist did not at
tack its Illegality. The assumption
drawn In State Department circles was
thpt no effort would be made by this
government to prove anything beyond the
fact that the British measures complained
of were Injurious to American foreign
trade, were unreasonable, and that they
invaded, even. the jurisdiction of the
United States.
The State Department alleged that neu
trals were condemned and their goods
confiscated wIthout fair adjudication 0
opportunity to be heard In prize courts.
It asserted further that such measures
are "Inevitable and ementially Incon
sistent with the rights of the citizens of
all nations not involved In war." and that
the United States would not submit to the
continuance of such practices.
POLICE STILL SEEKINi
PAJAMA-CLAD PATIENT
Soldier Who Escaped from Hospital
Remains at Large.
Although no trace of Louis Holier, the
private who escuped yesterday morning
from Walter Med Army Hospital. had
been found at midnight last night, pells
of the Tenth pe.nct aided by sty do.
tectIves and attsdnts of the army In
satutem, kept up a vigerous search fla
the sick amn last night, in 4opes et W
prehending ha before his condition be
cones critical from exposure to the
weather.
Holier, It was learned, had been suffer
lng from an attack of fever, and in a de.
lirious state escaped from his bed and left
the hospital about 4 o'clock yesterday
morning, clad in nothing but a pair of
pajamas and a night jacket.
All day yesterday search was made
for him, and when nightfall with its chill
drop in temperature came without the
man's recovery, fear lest he contract
pneumonia led searching parties to e
double their efforts.
Every ravine and ditch was trailed by
the searchers. and flashlights played
over the entire Rock Creek Park, where
it was believed Holler was secreting him.
self until daylight broke. No trace of
him could be found yesterday, and fears
that he may have crept into same cor
ner of the building and died, last night
caused attendants to look carefully over
the entire premises.
Authorities last night doubted the man's
ability to endure the bitter night In his
flimsy clothing.
T. R. ADOPT "SILENCE"
ROLE ON I920 HOPES
Colonel Grins in Enjoyment While Talk.
ing with Boomers.
(By the Iternatlenal News Servie.)
New York, Nov. 15.-RadIating as must
glee as if he had been elected Preaideni
of the United States again, Col. Roos.
velt chatted freely but privately with
I=2 boomers and newspaper men at thb
Hotel Langdom today.
Asked to comment on the defeat of
Charles E. Hughes. the Colonel broadly
grinned and came back with, "I am in
the same position as the mate to whom the
captain of a New Bedford ship said,
!what I want from you, air, is silence. and
damn little of that.' That will be my
course for maybe a few months."
The Colonel on visiting his hotel her
for the first time since the defeat of Mr.
Hughes, fodhd letters and telegrams 0i
abundance, reading in substance, "-ad
you Instead of Hughes been the Republi
can candidate Wilson would have bee
beaten to a frazzle. Get ready quick for
1920."
MOLLY SEAWEL DEAD.
Wasbiaglto Noweltt asesmunbN at
Age of 94 Yeas,
Molly Elliot Seawell, the novelist, died
at her home her. yesterdtay at the age
of 86.
Mis. Seawell was the author of a serie.
of popular romnances, most of them woven
on a historical framework.
Some of her novels were ' 'he Sprightl3
Pasnanca of Mameac." "The Huse" of
Ingremont," "Paul Joe.," "'Maid Me
rian," "A Virginia Caralier.," "Cinnen
of Destiny" and "The Last Dashles, of
Belgrade."
""- UE?; NANK CMBE
Parkerbug, W. Va., Nov. E.--National
bank ezaminere today closed the WiI
neewn, W. Va., National Bank, fol.
lowing the discovery of ah aleged sihort
age in the aceounta of Cashies. George
W. Hunte amnounting I to $L Uuates',
whoid Upe of ae, b iia
Now York, Nov. I-he Daed State
Steal Cerperatim 10 adane th
prie of eta rjdis ascit steal smbS .
te. g
NE'W-.l LAW
V"eon Plans to Re-enforce
Adamson Measure.
In ndelpation of a wholesale atteek
by the railroads upon the constitutional
ity of the Adamson eight-hour law, the
admintation Is understood to have
agreed upon a plan of passingedditional
legislatiom at the coming session of Con
gross In order to insure the chances of
the law becoming effective. This new
legislation will. be framed to meet the'
constitutional objections to the law in
Its present form and will be a revision
and strengthening of the Adamson ac.
The President iS said by his closest
advisers to be thoroughly in earnest in
his desire to have the principles em
bodied in the Adamson act become oper
ative. All of the Influence of the ad
minitation will be behind the proposed
changes in the law, which will be intro-j
dused and passed while the Democrats
still hold the majority In Congress.
It is understood here that the railways
plan to fie suits against the law in every
judicial district In the country. This
would mean such a multiplicity of suits
that It would be practically Impossible to
have them disposed of before the first of'
the year, when the law is to become at
festive.
Ge. George W. Goethals, chairman of
the commission named by the President
to Investigate the feasibility of the eight
hour law, called at the Treasury Depart
ment yesterday and made request for
rooms In New York where the sittings
of the commission may be held. He was
told that instructions had been sent to
New York to set aside rooms in the Cus
tom house for the use of the commis
5100.
ITelegraph Tips
oston. Mase.. Nov. 15-Orders have
been received by the commandant of the
Charlestown Navy Yard from the Navy
Department to place the Tacoma, pro
tected scout cruiser, in commission.
Trenton. N. J., Nov. IL-The Supreme
Vourt set aside the conviction of Samuel
Smith. an Essex County politician, of at
tempting to extort $100 for campaign
funds, and ordered a new trial.
Hartford, Conn.. Nov. 1i.-Adam Carl
Wagner, principal owner of one of the
largest breweries in New England, has
taken a second wife, It became known
here today, the bride being Miss Anda
V. Wall, a friend of his daughters.
Andover, Mass., Nov. 15.-A gift of $5,
OD from Andrew Carnegie. to be used
toward the purchase of the property for
merly occupied by the Andover Theclogi
cai Sendsnry. has been announced by the
oficials of PhillIps-Andovter Anadamy.
Montevideo. Nov. 15.-The na&Aube of
Deputies has passd a law prohiMlting
the export of wheat or Sour and anthor
izing the government to establish a
maxinum price on bread. This was done
on account of the high cost of bread.
The President at once signed the meas
ure.
Juneau, Alaska, Nov. 15.-Revised re
turns from all of the four judicial divi
sions of Alaska, with twenty-four pre
cincts missing, give Charles Sulser,
Democrat, a lead of fIfty-two votes over
James Wickersham, Independent Repub
lican nominee for re-election as delegate
in Congress.
Buenos Ayres, Nov. 15.-President Iri
goyen delivered his first official speech
Tuesday on receiving the Spanish Am
bassador. Senor Don Soler y Guardiola,
who handed In his new credentials, hav
ing been raised to the rank of ambassa
dor instead of minister.
Yonkers, N. Y., Nov. 1.-Records of the
Yonkers Health Bureau show the total
cases of infantile paralysis in Yonkers in
the last three months was 136. Of this
number 99 were treated at the City Hos
pital. There were 41 deaths, 19 dying at
the hospital and 22 at their homes.
Atlantl City, N. J,, Nov. 1.-CoL George
I Swett, assistant manager of the Tray
more Hotel. formerly of the Netherland
Hotel. New York, and well known in hotel
circles throughout the country, Is deed
following an operation. A daughter, Mrs.
A. H. Arsten, of Ventnor, N. J., survives.
Washington. N. J.. Nov. IL-Waldo
Rush, 39 years old, shot himself through
the hand and stomach at the I&Akawanna
station here as he was exanining a gun
in preparation for a shooting trip. He was
taken to the Easton HospItal, where he
is in a serious condition.
AGED FOLK RESQED
IN M. E. HONE BLAST
Firemen and Police Carry Inmates
from Steam-Filled Rooms.
Explosion of a twelve-foot boiler in the
Methodist Home for the Aged, at Sixth
and M streets, about 7 o'clock last night
caused an alarm for ire apparatus to be
turned In by residents who heard the
noise a block away. Reserves from the
Second police precinct, within a few
blocks of the scene, were hibtled to the
home In automobiles.
Thrilling rescues of the Inemates from
the choking, blinding steam that filled
the building and a cllsion betweets a
street car and a piece of fire apparatus
added to the excitement.
About fity aged Inmates of the hems
had just left the supper table when thme
explosion came. A sudden thud, felloweg
by the terrifyIng quivering et the bud
lng, was their first warning. Thben the
seund o? rushing water and essaping
steam filed the house.
The shock was felt all over tihe neigh
borhood, and nearly 1,N anilstaasenlo
e crowded to the scene to Watch the he
roic work of the firemen and police -as
they smashed their way through thle biig
windows and doors to extricate thme aged
people from their stsem-SllaA prin'a
Failure of one of the- jet esh towr
wee given by the oUers of the hom as
the reason for the explosiem,-. earned
a congestion of steam, and the bieag
cut of cne section of the belier denswed.
A hote four feet square was blewa in thme
fleering of the west paers et the boe.
aMig was tern front the slas end eei
18allG over the hnes,. and in pless
was baea a distance of tbiety bee.Wit
Mbwo ater te'ad
Het ONes 1r britme
B..ds should t.e. eM b.M
and brunettes should take Wp
baths. Blondes deedd eat -esM
foods and brunettes should eat
warm foods.
These statements were made by
Dr. N. W. Sheftferman in an ad
drese In the Public Ibrary last
might.
"Foods have evived the same as
mn.-- be sod. "Foods and men
com in types. Each person should
find to what type he belongs and
-choose a type of food that matches,
his temperament.
-A mans activities have be~
mr complex his diet also has be
co. mere ..mle.
MAY NAME FOR[
Wilson Likely to Pick Him t<
Succeed Redfield.
It was stated last night on what ap
peared to be excellent authority the
henry Ford will accept the appointmin
Is Ueretary of Commerce. Mr. mare
lame has been rumored as that of a pa
ible Cabinet member several times. Tia
raeOMt that Se::retary Redfield will redo
Is gmnerany credited. Another romer he
It that upon the resignation of Beerotar
mf War Baker. on Inauguration Day
Pranklin . Iane. Secretary of the In
teror, wilt reilac Mr. Baker.
CoL. . House was closeted yesterda:
with Presmident Wilson. and their confer
ance was thought to concern Cabine
Lhanee. as well ns rewards to faithft
Democrats for work In the campaign. I
leas stated that Vance McCormick. th
Prodd's late campaign mna=. wi
be here tomorrow to talk "poUtis" wit
fr. Wilson.
Senator James A. Reed. of Missou
and speaker Champ Clark appeareda
the White House yesterday to urge th
appointment of 12mnbrough Stone. of Kan
s City. as judge of the Eighth circuit a
ihe United States Court of Aei.als. Tb
aspirant. who Is the so- of Senator Wi
ism J. Stoma. of Missori. is at present I
Circuit Court judge In his own state. I
ws urged in his behalf that he is Is
Ioreed by Repubbeanes and Democrat
alike and is highly qualifled to 11 the ai
pointment.
A rumor that Eugene H. Outerbridge
of New Terk. had been offered the pres
defey of the new Shipping Comissale
and had deed met with UtIe sappea
at the Wbs, misse.
DANE AN SMiI2il
FIE WE IN lIOU
Passengeus on Lmer Kew Up "Nerve
with Music.
(By the nteMeUaIemai News SieylS
New York. Nov. lL-The Free
steamer Chicago. reported to be on gh
at sea two weeks ago, reached po
today with 229 passengers who wet
happy to get ashore. While maney 4
the passengers sang and played th
piano during the thirty-six hours thi
the vessel was racing to Paya
Azores, with a fire blasing and smolk
ing in No. 3 hold they also admitte
today that it was simply a ruse I
keep fear at a distance.
The Chicago left Bordeaux on Octc
ber 22. Three days later Are as dlit
covered in the hold. When the pas
sengers were warned of the dange
they seized life preservers and stoe
on deck. ready to jump overboard a
the slightest sign of the flamt
spreading to other parts of the ship.
Capt. Mace. meantime, had steers
his ship toward Fayal and told tb
passengers he was confident the Ch
cago could make It. This statemer
allayed the fears somewhat and pat
sengers cast aside the life preserves
and tried to forget the Are.
FM NouAMxS SUNK.
Vessels Presmmably Victimas ot Get
man submarines.
London. Nov. 1-The British steamehi
Sarah Radcliffe, . tons. and the sloo
St. Nicholas. have been sunk. presumabi
by submarines, says a dispatch to Usyd
today.
The Sweish steamer Austria. the Britis
steamer Polpedn and the Danish steame
Ragnar also were sunk. it was later r4
ported.
HUGEE TO GO SOUTH.
New York. Nov. 1L.-Charles E. Hughe
is planning to leave with his family ft
the South on Sunday to rest for severs
mouths. Mr. Hughes has not yet cot
ceded the re-election of President Wilso
and will not do so until there is an ofl
cal count In California. Reports thi
Mr. Hughes would join the law Grm c
Wickersham & Taft were denied by-fl
secretary today.
Boston, Nov. KI-Brohma in health, wt
practically all of her large earningu give
to aid the blind or the deaf and' dem
Miss Helen Keller has bee. oblged
cancel aRl lecture engagoemet and pas
pare for a long rest. One trday at
will leave 3estem for Saa. Pre
there she wE1 go to Meataoer,. Als
where .h wel reemain with her site.
T.M. C. A. MAN CAMB A3RUJ
Baltheere, Md., Nov. a-Chaged wtI
the laeemy et 9 est bm Mariem I
Merhia. uhydeal M er et the Trns
Mae- Chitn Aingmmats. WIlum.
EUg If etreitt today was held by tI
peee s r a ther hmsta
Cheristte. N. C., 3ev. E,.-Decamt
daeig. med saying. and ether termns
assiel nammt mounan asem ii
""eidge We" et seheteachm, he eti
spt el amlemna bad tem..an. d
GERMANS STRIKE
BACK ON SOUME
Powerful Counter-Attacks Are
Launched Against French.
(87 the ]IIN teiemal NewaisUeswiee.]i
London Nov. 1.-The Germans tried to
"ene back" on the Somune today. They
bUseseded partly.
In the firt counter ofensive endeavor
ed on a large scale since the alles' "big
push'' began on July 1. and seemingly Ut
tie concerned by the new British attacks
astride the Ancre brook, the Teutons to
11ay hurled powerful effectives against the
French both north and south of the
river. They succeeded, according to ad
mission by the Paris war offles in Its
midnight communique. In Laining a foot
bold in French "advanced elements" In
the northern corner and western outdirts
of the St. Pierre-Vaast wood, north of
the river, in the eastern part of the
Pssoire Village. south of the Soeume. .
Contrary to Its usual custom of issuing
only one official statement dany. end
that in the afternoon, the German war
fnice late tonight gave out a special
bulletin supplementing its earlier stste
ment. The version reoeived here mahes
no mention of the gains officially am.
ceded by Paris. .
It merely states that "fighting i in pro
grs near Seuly-Saillisel and Prescire.
Claima Dritih Aetaeka Pasma
With regard to the new British ofew.
sive on the Ancre. the Berlin night re
port &aerts that British attacks on the
southeast bank "are already shatered."
The British war oficle tonight claimed
a further advance north of the Anere and
stated that the number of prisonemrs
sine the inception of the offemdve,
Menday morning has risen to . Brit
lab losses. It Is asserted were dinah when
considered in proportion to the gains
med. In an advance of on. mile, in
which L prisoners were taken, one
dlvislom-MOS men-lost only sN men. A
consolidating action was carried oot seuth
of the Ancre today east of Dntie de
Wariencourt.
FI0iD BLASTS HF=
NORTiWEST DUE 11DAY
Waint on Asai, to Sver W .ile
Mercury Remains Stationary.
Hope for relief today from the ehilly
blasts of the Brst real winter weather
Washington has seen this seaso was
destroyed last night by the pre
of the weather man. There wil not
be much chgs in tompesatare but
hnrthw t winds will sweep the
weala today.
While the temperature yesterday
was not extremely low. thermometer
readings did not register the aetaa
cold of thousands of shivering hu
manity. The strong wind, combined
with the fact that It was the frst cold
snap of the year, made the weather
seem severe.
While Washington experiemoed the
first real winter weather of the season
yesterday, she was far better of than
her sister cities, both North, East and
South.
Richmond reported snow, as did also
Baltimor.-e. Philadelphia and New York.
while Washingtonians could at least keep
their feet dry as they gathered their
overcoats and furs about their chins.
The entire country is in the grip of a
cold wave that extends as far South as
the Gulf States. Snow is reported all
along the western slope of the Appala
chian Mountains. The temperature has
gone below the freezing point In many
parts of the South.
MTORMICK IN QUEST
OF $300,00O DEFIIT
Chairman Declares He Does Not Want
Cabinet Job.
New York. Nov. l.-"We have elected
our man President. My mission now Is
to collect SM.lp to cancel the defict in
our campaign chest." said Chairman
Vance C. McCormick, of the Democratic
National Committee, today.
The Wilson campaign manager made his
frst appearance at headquarters since
his departure for his home in Harrisburg.
Pa., last week. He wa. greeted by Execu
tive Chairman Lynch and a group of at
taches who showered him with bouquets
for his masterful conduct of the cam
paign.
"We are going to get Mineeota." said
Lynch as he grasped McCormick's hand.
"We have enough with California." was
the retort of McCormick. "And they can
not take it away from us," he added
with a smile of mingled satisfaction and
triumph
"It has been suggested that you may
be a member of the Cabinet."
Chairman McCormick put up his hands
and answered: "I have no aspirations in
that or any other offcial direction. My
name and address will continue to be
Vance C. McCormick, Harrisburg, Pa.,
private citisen."
VIEL TO JAPAN.
San Francisco. Nov. 1.-Wireless ser
vie between the United State. and Jepan
was established by the Marconi Wireless
Company this afternoon. The first mes
sage beIng a formal greeting from Presi
dent Wilson to the Eimperor of Japan. ex
tending felicitations 'n the new means of
communIcatIon between the two countries.
A reply from the ~ererwas received
and transmietted to the President at
Washington by telegrap.
One American was k!fld and two were
lnjure6 one seriously, when an Inter
Oceanic pasenger train was wrecked on
November 11. near Jalapa. state of Vera
Cru, Mexico. the State Department was
notified yesterday.
are 3. L. Byrd and W. P. Gavin.
British Aerodrme6 Doubed.
Bertin (via Bayville by wireless). Nov.
5.-The British military aerodrome at St.
POt.near nkkand several factories
werehanh byGerman airmen en
fdt, was Oariefly announced
ia. dANtin minhae. masd to theig
FOD SOlMTAE
kHTA
EACES ALLES
Great Britain Anib Eect
iveness of BIekad
LeimSm Nov. .-Per the 1at ale
ta 0h Metbreak at the war -0
of fteed ahortage. hitheits emir saguwo
ali"ded to. hes lesmed W s a r m
in the three lenaig mfas matim
Enand. Rm" nd Prunes. As it by a
Stva momL the germeto a c
a-- se-y Oeat of an emn--aUmmy
and tsar of twhat will the people tb
Ormly faged the se and e t best
taking such measures as wea e pubialy
coe" ea te be tImperative lest henger
los the war for the eflh.
In the Bit h pariis-*t Walter ftm
chase. president of the Doed ot Trade.
spoke out. apes p-n-.am with
the gvermaent, what everybody han bass
twhispertmg for emths: Tlat the German
U-beat campaign has cut deW tute the
netwerk of maritisme fadilities by whIch
Britain brings oodatuf to her eshrs
fram an parts of the world, am that
1draws measures are asoewsay to re
-s-t*hi the severed Ises of spply ad
t to regulate the food nomesmapinm at
bemas.
FPaed Dteta-e- Pstaam ,
A "feed dboan*r" for ngland was pm
Met after ee speets an the inevitable
medium at translating his words Into
action.
In the Rusman Dma the budget cem
r mittee urged unmediate assemptioun by
the geverfmet of complete metrol of
the ftod distribution and food prices.
In France. the public wese -f -
ly prepared for a goverumrnet deesee
r useing In rigid war ecfnomics In an *f
- fort to compel the saving of coal. light,
t Ad provisions.
I Presdent Runeman's speech was made
t In the course of a general discomn of
i the food problem In the house of com
I sesa. precipitated by a resolution Intro
a 4godby William Hewine. Unionist on
r from Hereford. putting the home* on
record am considering It the duty of the
t government 'to adopt further methods
R of orumizaton to Increas- and con
- serve the national food supply and to d
f miishn the risk of shortage and serimus
e Inoresse of pries In the event of the war
bng prolonged.''
L The debate which followed the reolu
tio was welcomed by the goversu.
Questions, which had they been ammai
three maonths ago, would have mewit
the Usual government reply t"at it was
"not in the interest of the natie" te dr
cuss haem, were today freely debated.
- e m .'t at comeesltmome.
T m was ne efert to .ocalt the dct
that if England today suffenp freen eser
bitant tood proes and faces a suelW
shortage. It Is da-e solely ti the German
subsmartne aempaagn.
Lord Charles Berseford and Baron S3
denharm, leading the debat, on thf, eub
lect. cited facts and figures to reilove all
doubts on the int. and Presldent tonn
rsa. taking h constructive view of tI
matter. emphatically urged the Immediate
pooling of BrItain's engineering reourees
to bring the British merchanm fleet baca
to its pre-war strength, or as rearly to it
as possible.
Sweeping measures giving the g'wcrnl
fment full power to deal with -hv eitu
h tion. both an regards the shippind prob
e lem end the resultant food rasi-. n-a
-t looked for tomorrow. It was -een l a
e noat probable that an *-rder-in-cou-i.il
f woold be anrcounced making such ste,'
e l'oslible.
t Sugar. potatoce flour. and milk sr.e thA
,; chief products fi;auring !n the food situa
- tion. Drastic steps are expected to be
d taken to control their dietribution n-l
o their pr.ces. He flayed thc- taking ad
vantage of th 'tettint crishs and pointel
-,to the necessity of a governmel-tital chec k
of the evil.
The de-ree to he issued by the Fr-ech
r government, probably tonorrov.. wl:l itr
d Aest a national supervlsing hi- 1 ar"
w'de powra to stay wastt and et.aVr
* Vance.
- N IA EADWATERS
G0AL UF EXPLERS
!Dr. and Mrs. Rice and Harvard Expert
Sail from New York.
(By the laternstteeal News teeiee.
P New York, Nov. 15.-The steam yacht
1) Alberta. chartere'd for a voyage of more
Y than S.000 ile to the Amazon head
a waters, left po-t iMa with Dr. arni
Mrs. Alexander Hinmilton Rice. t Will
" lam T. Councilman. Ernest Howe. E arl
r E. Church and John W. Swanson.
I The yacht will touch at Barbados. pro
ceeding from there to Manaoes. far up the
Aimaomn, where It will navigate the wat
era of the Rio Negro to the head of
Navigation at Santa Yesael. Thence the
party will proceed in a 4.-foot cruising
O'launch.
r The territory that will he visited by
- the Alberta's company was explored by
I Dr. Rice. charterer of the yacht. In 1101.
n IDr. Councilman is professor of pathology
lat Harvard. Howe Is the Newport geol
olgist. Church. of United States COast
and Geodetic Servey, goes as the phe
torapher and Swan. as wM'ees 4.
BAKlER'S 11TI NET
sosibQtoETiiidEb
tie. Law.
D y the mneettuinm. NMs ine'wea.S %
nainamore. bed., Nov. li-"I do't he
h Ileve ia u'ar, and I am sury that my
sea Is Secretary of War." aid Mr's. Mew
te D. Beker, ot Martimeg. W. 'V..
who Is yvintg relatives hese 15e57.
beMru. Baker said that the b u
the civil war, whteh *e sin
eery, testilled in her a buend aJ M
thiu=e pertaining to werters.
- Ts'skly, res sorry that Newime
his present posion.'' she si."
S like to see him het45ng oue ti emv
It inn but dietuen in uminet Zn *
St .Idon't beheve in 11s
.y tink thae're all .,. -
1- asmies I inw= that se hevbl l
t heem-ene e mai 0.
