THESE WILL HUNT
Three Hundred and Twenty-Six Li-
censes to Hunt Big Game Is-
sued in Mille Lacs Co.
Two Ladies Procure LicensesNames
of Those Who Will Venture
Forth in Quest of Game.
The big game season is on and
numerous hunters from hereabouts
are the woods of northern Minne
sota. As usual most of them are at
tired in mackinaws and caps of flam
ing red, so as to minimize the danger
of being mistaken for a deer. A total
of 326 hunting licenses have been is
sued at the office of the county auditor
thus far, but if half of those who go
forth in quest of the fleet-footed den
izens of the wilds return with a deer
the showing will be remarkable.
Two of the licenses listed below
were issued to ladiesMrs. A. E.
Hayes and Mrs. J. C. Whitcomband
they expect to bring down a deer each.
Last season Mrs. Hayes returned with
a member of the antlered tribe.
Hereunder appear the names of
those who have secured permits to
hunt big game:
PrincetonW. A. Foote, Leslie M.
Byers, Oscar Stark, Arthur Heath, L.
B. Mallette, Geo. Schurrer, Oswald
King, S. A. Vandevanter, Harry Shock
ley, Geo. Schmidt, James Brown, El
wood Sanford Willie Bergman, N.
Sanford, C. R. Sanford, Joseph Wolf,
L. D. Bockoven, Walter P. Jenson,
Wm. V. Sanford, Gordon Sanford, An
drew Schmatz, E. Nelson, George
Wilhelm, Alfred Heruth, Wm. C. A.
Neumann, Geo. Marpe, J. E. Brown,
Frank Spiechall, Jas. A. Moore, P. J.
Boehn, A. J. Boehn, John Johnson, S.
P. Skahen, Fred C. Keith, Walter
Steeves, Hugo Betzlfer Chas. Bauman,
Wm. Heruth, Verne Mott, A. H.
Steeves, W. A. Brooks, Geo. H. Tom
linson, W. L. Mark, D. A. McRae, Jas.
Tomlinson, 0. B. Randall, Benj. Soule,
David Johnson, Real Robideau, D. E.
Carpenter, C. H. Carpenter, Ernest
Sanborn, Ole Thompson, Ira G. Stan
ley, Carl Rick, John Zimmerman, Al
bert Strieker, John Dalchow, Fred
Kuhrke, Emil Lundgren, Alfred Snow,
Geo. Malkson, jr., Ray Bockoven, Al
bert Roman, A. G. Lindstrom, Frank
Kewitsch, Charles Moody, Gilbert E.
Moody, L. F. Wilkes, A. B. Gramer,
F. E Wallace, John E. Moore, Herman
Van de Riet, Geo. Malkson, M. Ellen
baum, J. L. Jones, T. J. Belair, Henry
Arnhold, Lawrence Snow, H. E. Cook,
Swan Olson, C. E. Hill, L. J. Bockoven,
Alva Bockoven, L. L. Bockoven, Earl
Brooks, Geo. Reineccius, J. F. Bock
oven, Owen Stanley, Peter Schmidt,
Herbert Anderson, 0. B. Dibblee, W.
T. Bullford, John Fischer, H. J. Har
rington, J. C. Whitcomb, A. E. Hayes,
Etta L. Hayes, H. C. Harrington.
Frank Williamson, Archie Whitcomb,
A. G. Osterberg, Peter Tolberg, Geo.
Sibley.
MilacaH. A. Garrison, Arthur
Nelson, Wm. Halgren, Alfred Alm
aren, Otto Eggert, Reinhart Eggert,
W. H. Stowers, C. W. Burnhelm, C. H.
Foss, Carl Axell, Walter Magnuson,
Nels Cederquist, Jos. Neiscen, Henry
Westlmg, Sidney Dillon, Guy J. Hay,
Henry Nelson, Paul R. Olson, Emil
Anderson, A. F. Johnson, H. A. Starr,
S. C. Moore, H. Fairbanks, A. E.
Nichols, Jas. H. Norcross, George Hur
ley, Fred Searle, Hans Dahl, John Na
deau, H. E. Boe, Thos. Hunt, C. W.
LeRoy, John Dahlstrom, Geo. A. Pres
ley, Joel Olson, 0. Rem, Frank Salee,
Wm. Whittet, Dr. C. P. Gibson, Van
Briggs, A. C. Wilkes, Ole Berg, Jos.
Schmitz, A. G. Phelps, E. G. Phelps,
Herman S. Nelson, R. L. Cramb, John
Young, Jas. D. Gray, Oscar Dahl,
Richard Nelson, Raymond Nelson,
Lysle Bourqum, J. H. Cornish, O. P.
Johnson, Leo Moore, Thos. Grythmg,
Frank Deuel, Leo Brown, George
Bruflodt, George Kay, Jonas Skanse.
OnamiaGlenn M. Oliver, Louis
Sandberg, Edwin Sandberg, John
Benjamin, W. F. Frailey, F. A. Clark,
H. L. Bailey, J. F. Warren, Thomas
Anderson, jr., Ed. Bennett, Aug. Eich
miller, E. J. Jones, Frank Board, J.
W. Robards, Will Board, H. D. Bossuet,
Chas. M. Carr, Chas. A. Gish, Melvin
Franklin, John DeMers, Geo. H.
Hawes, Anton Fischer, George La
deen, Simon Appel, Alfred Johnson,
Ernest D. Baker, William Dawes,
George Board, F. 0. Strom, J. E. Ford,
Albert Amundson, Frank Brandt,
Vance L. Bartlett, Floyd L. Bartlett,
Chris Godfredson, A- G. Harrison,
Helmer Vendergren, Knute Runstrom,
Leroy Cook, Stuart Oliver, Geo. Smith,
Henry Beckman, J. H. McRae, Jeff
Orton.
WahkonPeter Simon, N. Grant
Martin, W. H. Patterson, B. H. Potts,
Guy Compton, Wilbert Larson, A. L.
Gottwerth, Alfred Olson, Ben Casper,
A. J. Boynton, R. E. Bohanson, Nels
J. Johnson, Neal Johnson, Thomas
Lewis, John H. Eggert, Hans C. Weh
last, Henry Bohanson, Ed. E. Pearson,
Art. Pearson, Archie H. Wilkes, W. C.
Starr, E. H. Lewis, C. M. Helgren,
H. B. Emerson, O. A. Robbins, E. D.
Morris, John Addington, A. J. Wag
ner, Melvin Bailey, I. M. Huftelen,
C. J. Sandberg, H. F. Mann, J. L. Ger
rish, S. D. Vivant, John Munger.
ForestonH. F. Jones, Fred Erick
son, Charlie Erickson, William Erick
son, C. B. Larson, David Nylen, Hans
Peterson, I. W. Deuel, A. Lemay, Er
nest Axt, Earl Axt, Ben Hartman,
John Hammer, F. F. Clark, A. H.
Schwartz, Frank Peabody, G. W.
Cleyton, C. 0. Schwartz.
IsleIrvin Carlson, Elmer Lund
quist, Bernard Carlson, Wm. Carlson,
A. O. Peterson, Henry Swanson, Clar
ence Carlson, D. Sharbonno, Calvin
Carlson, John Hartson, G. H. Wilkes,
Gustaf A. Anderson.
OpsteadAlfred Johnson, Jonas P.
Grant, Will Engstrom, Lewis Torn
fohr, Owen Patterson, Charley Ander
son, 0. Larson, Oliver Anderson, Wm.
Lofgren, Everett Engstrom, Conrad
Engstrom.
VinelandCharley Boid, Fred Stein,
Jack Boyd, J. H. Faught, E. L. Robin
son, A. F$ Jorgensen, Wm. Anderson,
O-ge-Mah-ge-Skg, Wah-Wa-Naush-e-
Gay, Noisy Garbo, Ma-Spua-Dais,
O-git-ub, H. Van Winkle, C, C, Kelty.
CoveAlick Bostrom.
RonnebyA. G. Bemis, H. L. Bemis,
August Sandberg, Dan Sundberg, jr.
Long SidingSidney Hanson- Clif-
ford Hill.
MalmoArthur Curtis, G. S. Rodin.
PageJ. E. Thomas, A. E. Ayers,
BockCarl Ekman, Elmer Toberg,
Ole Olson.
Warren.
Rockney.
W. Tipp, Fred C.
JenettW. A.
RedtopC. B.
OgilvieEarl
Tipp.
"1r* .c*-t-*4-fl3-J
tti* .|*,il.i.rMn..i* tuini.M itirl
No Trouble With Mille Lacs Bonds.
There is nothing new or startling in
this information conveyed in a press
dispatch from Washington:
"Financing of highway improve
ments have been thoroughly investi
gated by experts of the department of
agriculture's division of road econom
ics who recommend to the people of
counties and municipalities intending
to raise funds the advantages of the
deferred serial plan over the ordinary
sinking-fund plan. Under the serial
plan a certain amount of bonds is re
tired each year and the bonds so re
tired cease to be an interest charge on
the community. Under the sinking
fund plan none of the funds are re
tirable until the end of a definite per
iod, and the entire sum raised bears
interest for the entire life of the bond.
"The department's experts say un
der the ordinary sinking-fund plan
communities pay interest on the money
borrowed and in addition set aside each
year as a sinking fund an amount
sufficient to retire all the bonds when
they become due. The sinking fund
is deposited with banks and earns
some interest. That interest ordinari
ly is only 3 per cent, whereas the com
munities pay 5 or 6 per cent to its
bondholders. The serial plan is much
cheaper, even though the sinking fund
earns interest as high as 4 per cent,
and in the opinion of the road special
ists should be utilized whenever it is
possible to market seriel bonds."
Mille Lacs county can negotiate its
bonds at 4% perecent to private par
ties, and in all probability the state
will take them at 4 par cent. If sold
to the state the liquidation of the
principal can commence at the end of
five years. The same arrangement
should be made if the bonds are sold to
private parties. In any event our
banks pay 4 percent on time deposits.
Boys' Corn Exhibits to Be Featured.
The featuring of exhibits from boy
corn growers of the Northwest will be
given special attention at the Second
Annual "First National" Corn Show,
which will be held in St. Paul, Decem
ber 11th to 16th, inclusive. Advices
received by the management of the
project from corn producing boys,
State Club Leaders and County Agri
culturists, indicate that exhibits in ex
cess of the 500 entries received in this
class at the "First National" Show,
which was held in St. Paul last Decem
ber, will be greatly outnumbered.
Special space is being reserved for the
segregation of boys' exhibits and all
publicity possible will be given to
show the important part the boys are
taking in the production of corn in
Wisconsin, Minnesota, North and
South Dakota, Montana, Washington,
Oregon and Idaho, the states included
in the Corn Show territory. Each of
these state have been divided into
districts in such a manner that boy
exhibitors will only have to compete
with contestants in their individual
district, who have grown corn under
similar climate and soil conditions.
The first prize for* boys in each dis
trict will be a beautiful engraved sil-
R. C. DUNN, Publisher. Terms, $1.00 Per Year. PRINCETON, MILLE LACS COUNTY, MINNESOTA, THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 16,1916
ver loving cup the second prize a
suitably engraved "Golden" bronze
loving cup. Each prize will be accom
panied by an attractively engraved di
ploma. These loving cups will be
identical in design and of the same
value as those awarded adult exhibi
tors.
The "First National" Corn Shows
are held under the auspices of the
First National Bank and Northwest
ern Trust Company of St. Paul and
bankers of the northwest, with the
object of interesting farmers, and far
mers' sons in the growing of more
corn, which has contributed more to
make the United States a nation of
great wealth and prosperity than any
other product of the land.
Contests in connection with the
Second Annual "First National" Corn
Show are open to every farmer and
farmer's son in the northwest. Ten
ears of any variety of Indian corn
will constitute an exhibit. No entry
fee is charged. Entries will be re
turned in every instance where re
quest is made that this be done at
the time of making entry. Exhibits
will be received for judging up to and
including December 5th.
Phamplets giving full details re
garding the Second Annual "First
National" Corn Show, and form of
entry blank may be obtained on re
quest, from any Northwestern banker.
A Word to the Commissioners.
Now that the proposition to bond
the county in the amount of $75,000
for road-improvement has carried al
most $150,000 will be available for
that purpose in Mille Lacs coun
ty next year.
If this large sum is properly ex
pended on the roads of the county we
ought to have an extensive system of
really good roads. The money must
be judiciously expended, and there
must be value received for every dol
lar paid out. Not a dollar must be
wasted.
As far as the main road through
the center of the county is concerned
it is safe to assume that under the
triple supervision of the County, State
and Federal road authorities good re
sults will be obtained.
But there will also be a large amount
-to expend an other state roathr over^son^
which the Federal authorities will ex
ercise no supervision. The county
commissioners must live up to their
agreement and make permanent im
provements on the roads designated
in that agreement.
The old vicious plan of alloting so
much money to each county commis
sioner district, and permitting the com
missioner for each district to have the
whole say where and how the money
alloted to his district shall be expend
ed, must be abolished. We do not wish
to convey the impression that we are
opposed to each district having an
equitable share of the county and
state road funds, but we are unalter
ably opposed to the idea that any one
commissioner should continue to have
the sole say so of where and how the
money shall be expended. The law
never contemplated such a thing. It
is the duty of the entire board to su
pervise the expenditure of county and
state road money no matter on what
road or in what locality it is expended.
That the county and state road
money can be parceled out to the five
commissioners and that each commis
sioner can do just as he pleases with
the amount alloted to his district is
wrong in principle.
Let each district have what it is
rightly entitled to, but let the com
missioners as a whole supervise the ex
penditure of the same. In other
words we hold that it is the duty of
the board to supervise the expendi
ture of county and state road funds
as a board and not as individuals. If
money is wasted in any district the
responsibility for that wastage should
be placed on the whole board and not
on the individual member of the board
from that district.
The taxpayers of Mille Lacs county
expect results in road-improvement
next year, and they will hold the en
tire board to a strict responsibility,
and they do not propose that any mem
ber shall shirk responsibility. The
member of the board from District No.
1 will be held equally responsible with
the member from District No. 5, if a
faulty piece of road work is done in
district five, and vice versa.
What the taxpayers demand is that
every dollar expended on the roads
shall count, shall be honestly and ju
diciously expended, and that there
shall be no frittering away of road
and bridge funds.
The county commissioners know
fully as well as we do what is ex
pected of them, and we believe they
will meet the expectations of the
public.
POTATO JITUATION
The Local Potato Market is Firm and
Receipts Have Been Good
the Past Few Days.
Shipments LightSouthern Pacific
Explains the Car Shortage
Other Spud Notes.
The local potato market continues
firm, and there has been practically
no variation in price since last week.
Farmers are being paid from $1.25 to
$1.35 for all varieties except Triumphs
which are bringing from $1.50 to $1.55.
Receipt have been good, but there have
been few shipments, due to a shortage
of cars. A few loads of potatoes were
not properly covered while being
hauled to market and the spuds froze
as a result.
The carlot potato market was steady
in Chicago last week and seemed to
have recovered from the slump which
started two weeks ago although price
levels were still under those which pre
vailed just prior to the development
of this easier feeling. Receipts in Chi
cago ran lighter than those of a week
ago, in fact the receipts for the early
days of the week ran about a third
under those of the previous period.
At loading stations a material de
ci'ease was noted in the receipts in all
the central northern states. Many
points in Michigan, Wisconsin and
Minnesota report that practically all
stocks have been shipped except those
that will be needed to take care of the
local seed and table stock demand.
Some stations that cleaned up at the
top of the market two weeks ago are
said to have sold so close that the re
maining supply is not sufficient to care
for local demands until the next crop
is produced.
Operators continue to have consid
erable trouble in getting cars, and in
but few instances have they been able
to get as many cars as were needed
for any of their many stations. From
present indications it seems no relief
is in sight and dealers have come to
the conclusion that the situation is one
that will have to be dealt with
throughout the winter shipping sea-
For the first time in several weeks
the New York potato market was slow
last week and prices showed a decline
from the opening of the week to the
close. The election might have had
something to do with this as New
York was pretty well wrought up over
the outcome and very few business
men attended strictly to business.
The car shortage is explained by the
Southern Pacific as follows:
"The volume of business from the
Pacific coast has predominated east
bound through the year for the past
several years. As a result of the
closing of the Panama canal and of
the congested condition existing
along the Atlantic seaboard, the sit
uation has been accentuated. Rail
roads in the West have been unable
to secure the release and return of
their cars in eastern territory. On
May 1, 1916, the total number of cars
of all ownership on the Southern Pa
cific lines represented an equivalent
of only 82 per cent of that line's own
equipment. Telegrams were sent to
all lines owing us a balance, request
ing the return of the cars and plead
ing the urgency of the situation.
These telegrams have been repeated
and the request reiterated through
out every month since that time.
The eastern lines have replied that
they would do everything possible to
return the cars and relieve the situ
ation. Some assistance has been ren
dered. On September 1 the total
number of cars of all ownership on
Southern Pacific rails represents an
equivalent to 86 per cent of the cars
owned by that line. The congestion
in eastern territory, together with
the great industrial activity due to
the war, and the resulting demand
for cars in that territory, makes it
more difficult to obtain our equip
ment or its equivalent. All cars for
the Pacific coast territory must of
course come from the East. In this
respect the lines operating on the
coast and without eastern connection,
or without termini in the Middle
West are at a decided disadvantage,
for the reason that,a large proportion
of the products of the coast is for
eastbound movement and all cars go
beyond the lines of the owner."
Bakery Changes Hands.
A deal was closed this week where
by G. E. Raiche disposed of his bakery
and restaurant in this village to Chas.
and Sidney Grow, who will take pos
session at once. Messrs. Grow will
doubtless maintain the high standard
established by their predecessor. Mr.
^HJ^^iikiAimmi.
Raiche has not definitely decided as
to the future, but whether or not he
and his family remain in Princeton
numerous friends wish them only suc
cess.
The Official Vote of the County.
Elsewhere in this issue appears the
official tabulated vote of Mille Lacs
county by precincts. A total of 2,742
votes were polled, an increase of over
600 since two years ago, which indi
cates that Mille Lacs county is grow
ing and leading its sister counties in
population.
The table is interesting. Hughes
received only 14 votes more than Wil
son, the smallest plurality a republi
can candidate for president ever re
ceived in Mille Lacs county. Kellogg,
for United States senator, polled 58
more votes than Lawler and his assis
tant prohibitionist combined. Anderson
for Associate Justice of the Supreme
Court, had 9 the best of QuinnAn
derson's name is a big asset. Schall
had 33 more votes to his credit than
Jepson. Henry Rines polled the high
est vote of any candidate2,008. The
bonds for road-improvement carried
by 124 votes. Of the eight constitu
tional amendments the first was the
only one that received a majority of
all the votes cast, a net majority of
125.
The Boob State.
California is the state which every
now and then causes the rest of the
nation to wonder how the trouble it
makes can be safely handled. Califor
nia hates the Japanese. It offends and
insults the Japanese. It pays no at
tention to the treaty obligations of the
United States.
Several times California in stubborn
and belligerent mood has almost put
the alternative of war or humiliation
up to the rest of the nation. Some
day, when Japan is ready, a California
offense will result in the seizure of
the Philippines and Hawaii.
California makes the trouble and
expects the rest of the country to pro
tect it. It may make a war and drag
the rest of the country into it. Cal
ifornia is our junker state in all ex
cept willingness to strengthen the
ability of the federal government to
meet the_ trouble it may make and ia
perfectly willing to make.
California ought to have given the
Republican ticket a great majority. A
state which demands the privilege of
making trouble ought to be willing to
meet it. It ought to be willing to take
ordinary precautions against conse
quences.
California now seems to be con
cerned chiefly for the right to bluster.
The moral condition of some little
rotten spot in the interior of the
United States can be understood. But
California presents a long coast line
which it demands that the United
States defend. It wants a Pacific
navy. It seems to have voted for a
Pacific navy.
How a state which, when it is not
scared to death itself, is scaring the
rest of the nation to death could have
given even two votes in a precinct to
the administration which maintains
Josephus Daniels as schoolmaster of
the American navy is a question be
yond normal intelligence.
By giving Wilson the vota it did,
California, with its record and Wil
son's record, presented itself as the
champion boob state of the American
republic.
The only thing needed for the per
fection of the irony was that the
workers who want Japs excluded, in
order that American standards of
comfort shall not be lowered, should
have tried to deliver the state to the
administration which has tried to
break down national courage.
California, which wants everything
for itself, is inclined to the direction
of an administration which blandly
says that America demands nothing
for itself that it does not demand for
the rest of humanity. What a sweet
vaporing of magnanimity for Cali
fornia to snuff up eagerlyCalifornia,
which wants nothing more for itself
than it wants for the Japanese!
The state which has put the nation
on the edge of war several times kept
it in suspense 48 hours in this elec
tion when the issue was one which
should have been decided in this out
post state in two hours.
Some day CaUfornia may have a
Japanese governorfor a while. The
rest of the nation eventually will an
nul his commission, but he may be
there for a while.
If California gets its Japanese gov
ernor there may be men in California
who will recall that in a time of na
tional emergency they voted for'the
candidate of the party which wishes
to be just as sweet to the rest of hu
manity as it is to California.
One of Kipling's characters, a chap-
VOLUME XL. NO. -48
lain with a burr under his tongue,
quoted: "Quern Deus volt perdere,
pr-r-rius demenstat," which, trans
lated, means: "When -people insist
upon getting it in the neck they are
first made dead from the neck up.*"
Chicago Tribune.
News That Isn't News.
There is no excuse for a newspaper
published three days after election
giving to its readers such misinforma
tion as this: "Bond Issue In Doubt."
It was known positively on Wednesday
noon that the bond issue had carried.
Then again it was known Wednesday
morning that D. F. Reese, the repub
lican candidate for congress in the
Fourth congressional district (Ramsey
County) was overwhelminging de
feated and that VanDyke, the demo
crat was elected, and yet that same
reliable newspaper had it that "all
the republicans had won seats in the
lower house of congress." The size-up
of the presidential contest by the same
newspaper was not even good guess
work.
Chas. Wurzhuber.
Chas. Wurzhuber succumbed to
pneumonia at the Northwestern hos
pital last night at the advanced age
of 74 years. He recently underwent
an operation and when pneumonia de
veloped his system was too weak to
combat same.
Funeral services will be held from
St. Edward's Catholic church next Sat
urday morning at 9:30 o'clock. Rev.
Fr. Willenbrink will officiate and in
terment will be in the Catholic cem
etery.
Deceased was a native of Germany
and came to this country 34 years ago,
locating in Minneapolis. He came to
this vicinity about 20 years ago, and
has since lived here. Mr. Wurzhuber
was a good citizen and numerous
friends will cherish his memory. The
widow, four sons and two daughters
survive him.
Frank Bibeau Dead.
Numerous friends of Frank Bibeau
in this vollage will be grieved to learn
that he succumbed to tuberculosis at
Anoka on the 7th inst. Mr. Bibeau
had been afflicted with the disease for
some time and his death was not un
expected. Deceased was of a quiet and
unassuming disposition, but during his
residence here he made numerous
warm friends, all of whom will carry
kindly recollections of him in the
years to come.
The County's Best Investment.
Mille Lacs county by a small major
ity voted $75,000 for good roads, and
it will get $50,000 Federal aid as a re
sult. It is the best investments that
county ever made, and a large meas
ure of credit is due Hon. R. C. Dunn
for the good work.St. Cloud Journal
Press.
Our Sentiments.
Now that election is over some of^
us might cogitate on this' from the
West Concord Enterprise: "A man
who allows his religious prejudices to
control his politics has either very lit
tle religion or very little sense." And
this from the Kasson Republican:
"When you let religious prejudice rule
in the matter you deny the person the
very rights that the constitution of the
United States has given each citizen
the right to believe as they think
best religiously. The yard stick by
which any candidate should be meas
ured is one of efficiency and integrity.
You condemn others for wanting to
unite the church and state and then
show that you are so narrow in your
own views that you let your religion
dictate your choice between two can
didates irrespective of their qualifica
tions. Consistency, thou art anything
but such a person.Preston Times.
Tough on Minneapolis.
E. Z. Mark, of Princeton, three
time a member of the Minnesota legis
lature, is assembling a large circus in
the twin cities and will travel with
it in the spring. We know of no bet
ter place for him to get curious ani
mals. He can find them on the bench,
as city officials, legislators and would
be state officials. The cages is all he
needs to worry about.LeSueur News.
Never.
The women who have mailed ten
cent pieces to some one for a silk
petticoat, not content with being
swindled out of a dime and postage
stamp, are writing to enquire when
will they get that silk petticoat?
When the suckers are not abroad in
the land is the answer.Stillwater
Gazette. Minnesota Will Be Ably Represented.
There is a world of satisfaction in
knowing that Minnesota will have a
team in the United States senate after
March 4th that will be hard to beat.
Madison Independent-Press.
J*
