iron County Register
PUBLISHED EVERY THURSDAY.
BUBSCRIPTIOHJ
One Year, I1.50. S!z Months, 0.75.
KITES OW ADYERTI8IWO
Furnithed on Application. Special In
dueemtnti to Home Patrons.
Iddress Register, Ironton, Mo.
stai
F. P. AKE, Publisher.
OUR OOD, OUR COUNTRY AND TRUTH.
TERMS i. 50 a-Ye.r In Advance,
VOLUME L.
IRONTON. MO., THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1916.
NUMBER 24.
JOB-WORK
Best equipped Job Print
ing establishment in this
Bection of the State, We
insure satisfaction; prices
reasonable.
-O-nTRY us.
Mr. Wilson at Seen by One -o( Family
Circle. '
The New York Times secured for
publication an intimate personal
sketch of Woodrow Wilson, the man,
written by Professor Stockton Axson,
whose sister, Ellen Louise Axson,
was the President's first wife. Pro
fessor Axson not only had close per
sonal relations with the President for
thirty-five years, but served under
him, when Mr. Wilson was president
of Princeton university. Following
are a few extracts from Prbfessor A
son's article relating to the President's
home and married life:
"It is hard for me to speak in mod
erate terms of the beauty of the W"
sons' married life that married ute
which I saw so Intimately for more
than twenty-Ave years. In
the long years of his and my ; sister's
life together, they were more com
pletely one than any two people with
Whom I have been tnrown into mu
mate contact. We often hear
it said Of a married pair so often that
pass a law pronmiung newspapers
from publishing liquor advertlsments,
they.can, with the same sort of logis,
coerce and intimidate the lawmakers
into passing a law prohibiting the
publication of tobaoco advertising.
Worse Btill, if the legislature can
tell the newspapers what they shall
or shall not publish In their advertis
ing columns, it is but another step to
telling them what they shall, or shall
not, publish in their news columns.
AM it is then but another step to
the establishment by statute - of a
rigid censorship of editorial columns.
. What then, brethren of the pen and
pencil, will become of our constitution
al guarantee of the liberty of the
press? ,
No editor or publisher who has a
true reverence for his calling, who at
taches any value whatsoever to the
consbitntionallauBe that declares the
liberty of the press ehall never be
abridged, can cherish any respect
whatsoever for the Weakley anti
advertising statute.
A free and untrammeled press has
made the United States the greatest
it has become a sort of 'bromide' 'A
cross word never passed between that . overnment in the and if true
couple.' I have been 'honestly trying Democracy ever perishes from the
to thin-if l ever nearo. any wing ap- faoeottbe earth it will be because
proaching an altercation Detween mr. h aiiowed demazoE-ues. char-
and Mrs. Wilson, and X can not recall latang and professional reformers to
even a snaaow 01 bucd. uu jot muzzie the preB8
these are no weaklings; Dut two Bpir- Qive the fakirs of this type an inch
ited people, each with'a power ' an(j they will take a mile. They have
conviction possible only to very ajready taken the inch. Will the
strong characters, iney wouiunumo
times differ in their opinions, but
their relationship was so rooted in
mutual love and loyalty that their dif
ferences were casual and superficial,
never fundamental. J have
sometimes wondered how a family
composed of varying and very posi
tive elements ever contrived to live
in such absolute and undisturbed har
mony as did the Wilson family, and I
have come to the conclusion that such
a result can be attained only in one
way, not by any prescription, or plan
ordomestie'soheme' of action, but
only by enthroning love supreme
that where love is always master, ev
ery day and every hour, there must
be harmony. In the Wilson house
hold love iB always law. .
"Only a few of as know what Wood
row Wilson was really undergoing in
the summer and autumn of 1914, when
the world was catching fire from war,
and the foundations of his own life
were crumbling under him. Just as the
press of Mississippi permit them to go
the full distance?
Prohibition in Seattle.
Editor Register I ' saw in the
Register of September 14, 1916,
letter written by a Seattle lady to the
Los Angeles Times and copied by you.
She says "We have all the troubles
that come with the dry law," naming
them as "For Rent signs.'' Can" it be
possible that the .majority of the peo
pie there were engaged in the saloon
business and lost their jobs, and had to
vacate? She farther says, "tourists
do not even stop in Seattle, but make
close connection and go by" the way
of Vancouver to Alaska, and return
by the way of Canada." Too bad that
they have to hurry through Seattle to
get a drink, yet she says "more booze
is sold now then when they had open
saloons." All advocates of the saloon
say the same. Then why do saloon
men fight for saloons, if they can sell
more booze in blind pigs without pay
war opened my sister died.- 'I can not , . ,. n . ., nnB
help thinkinc,' he said, 'that perhaps saloong ' ft heayy
she was taken so that she might be ghe warn8 Calif orma about voting
spared ine spectacle oi sumo mui
calamity. I 'UarR -h unm ficrni-pa and facts
"I was at the White house a great I bout California town9 sixteen year8
deal that autumn and I know that " -....,.-pm, ; ,,r
" is no exaggerated use of words to say about dy Mfty Baid)
ma.ne wasuie "Long Beach will die if voted dry."
worm- 1 T " Did she die, not much! Her, popula-
lonely figure of the President now, tion then was 2000, now after sixteen
walking down the long hallway, the vears of dry her population i8
nair so mucn wnneueu iu hub w
His intimate friends often
the wish that the
months.
expressed to me
President could marry again, as he
was utterly desolate.
"We who love him feel that God
himself must have directed the cir
cumstances which brought Mrs. Gait
into the White house circle. But for
45,000. Fifty per cent are said to be
there, because of prohibition. The
city has more money per capita in its
banks, and a larger population than
five of the liquor beach cities combined.
Mayor H. C'. Gill of Seattle says:
"I have yet to find the first person en
gaged in legitimate business or owner
her we can only surmise what might of premise8i which had been nsed for
have happened, for not even the the Ba,e of qnor) who ,g not ,Q favor
strongest man in worm u u otthe present iaw. He further adds,
up inaennueiy unaer tna. uumo gr,i. - wUe thjg ftg one ashamed to admlt
Sunlight and grace radiate trom Mrs
Gait. Her nature is big and generous
and health-giving, and in that presence
the President found new life, found
that love without .which he can not
live. Their love for each other is
perfect, and we all love her, both for
what she has done for bin) and for
herself, for to know her Is to love her.
that I voted "wet" and will not re
peat my offense."
Will you kindly print this for an old
Mlssourian, who wants to be shown
by both sides?
Respectfully,
Mrs. N. J. Salsberey.
Los Angeles, Cal.
,
1 Xlfe?-
wm'w wimm mmmmmsmmKL
-ML ' Mimmm
lmla ill mm,
nishes a most rich material. At the
end of each second year, several tons
of this leaf mold are ready for use.
Mixed with garden soil it is splendid
for potting honse plants, ferns and
palms and unequalled as a dressing
for lawns, rose gardens and shrubbery
boiders.
Leaves may be piled in shrub bord
ers, weighted down with sticks or soil I
instead of being placed in pits, in
this way they will form a winter pro
tection as a mulch and after decaying,
a natural fertilizer. Care should be
taken in placing them around young
trees. Diseased leaves should be
sprayed. Spraying the plants at the
right time will prevent disease. ,
Save your autumn leaves and re
turn them to the land in the form of
fertilizer.
tions of the sixteen automobiles, and
everything necessary to start in the
campaign will be mailed free by ad
dressing the Campaign Manager, St.
Louis Republic, St. Louis, Missouri.
Adv.
Obituary.
16 AUTOMOBILES FREE.
St Louis Republic Makes Astounding Of
fer to Ambitious Women.
"She has entered this greafcareer New Year's Day Will Open Yearly Pro
as simolv. as unaffectedly, as unsel- gram at College of Agriculture at Co-
fishly as Ellen Axson entered Into the
obscure career of the young lawyer The annual Missouri Farmers' Week
who was abandoning law for a new wm begin Jannary 1, 1917, under the
and, untried life of scholarship and I direction of the College of Agriculture
teaching. To neither woman nas 0f Missouri at Columbia. A new
condition, high or low, meant any- feature will be that of real farm
thing; to both Woodrow Wilson has courses which may be completed by
meant all." , . the atteddinz farmers in five davs of
I w - -
f.ha moAffncr
llf IJ V I A J rt... - f .L I 6
would iveep looacco os uui oi u.o Ri . thfiHB ,m u-
Newannners. I c
soils and farm crops, animal has
The claim has been often made that I bandry, dairy . husbandry, poultry
prohibition: eventually will menace the farming, home economics, and rural
freedom of the press. Those who life problems. Lectures on these sub
now aim to prevent the making or Meets will be held each day and the
consuming ot liquor, dancing, card courses may be followed, during the
playing, smoking, Sunday baseball entire week. The laboratories and
and theaters, eventually, it is said, barns of the College of Agriculture
will attempt to dictate the policy of will be used for demonstrations and
newpapers. This story was printed the animals of the college for ex
in the Jackson, (Miss.) News: I amples In breedingand feeding.
The following Is from the current Agricultural marketing and organ!
issue of the East Mississippi Times, zation is to occupy a prominent place
published at at Starkvllle: I on the program. The national seore-
"The biggest and most profitable tary of American Commissioners .of
advertisers to the country newspaper Agriculture, the national president of
at present are the manufacturers ot the Farmers' Union, a national officer
tobacco, cigars and cigarettes. They of the Grange, and others interested
are sending out some good cash oon-1 in the work will lecture
tracts and the newspapers of the I A plan Is being made for a federa
state will reap a rich harvest unless a tion of all farm and country Ufa clubs
lot of ldiotio imbeciles meet la Jack-1 in the state at this time. More than
son next year and pass a law prohibit- twenty agricultural associations will
Ing Mississippi newspapers from ad- hold their meetings In Columbia dur
vertlslng tobacco." . , I ing the week. Jewell Mayes, seore-
And that's Just what is likely to tary of the State Board of Agriculture,
happen at the next session ot the is planning to have delegations sent
Legislature. , ' by the county oourts and commercial
It a lot of cranks and professional clubs of the state to Inspect the work
reformers, led by an alien fanatic, can I being done by the College ot Agrioul
ture. The evening programs will be
filled by speakers of national promi
nence obtained by the State Board of
Agriculture. The week will end Fri
day, January 5, with a large banquet
to all visitors.
HE'S A WESTERN BIRD!
Surpassing in liberality any offer of
its kind ever given in this section,
The St. Louis Republic is offering to
young women a remarkable oppor
tunity of winning sixteen luxurious
motor cars without a cent of cost.
Other handsome prizes, including
sparkling diamond rings, Victrolas,
6tc, are also to be distributed free
among those who respond to the of
fer. The glittering array of automobiles
is attracting the eager attention of
thousands upon thousands of people,
and the good news of The Republic's
great automobile and prize campaign
is sweeping in every direction.
Automobiies are something not
everyone can buy. To obtain 'Lue
without paying money for it is some
thing that seldom occurs. Its posses
sion means pleasure unalloyed, pleas
ure that only Dig money can buy ex
cept in this campaign. The opportun
ity is open to women, whether resid
ing in city or country. Those resid
ing in the outside districts do not
have to compete with candidates in
Greater St. Louis, as they have an
equal prize list of their own to share
in.
Every woman, married or single,
from sixteen years up, has an equal
chance to become the owner of an
automobile. The ambition to buc- i
ceed is the principal requisite. Al
ii jady many aspirants are beginning
to participate in the campaign, but
the long iist of iplendid prizeV pre
sents an enticing opportunity to many
more.
The St. Louis Republic exercised
much thought and care in selecting
for its prize automobiles such cars as
the ultimate winners will be proud to
own. Best of all is the $1,724 West
cott Six, a classy 7-passenger model.
The Chandler Six, costing $1,330, is
another free prize. A $1,115 Stude-
baker, a $1,110 Velie Six, a Rso Six
worth $1,175, and a Chalmers, sailing
$1,120, are among the beautiful
awards, besides ten other cars. Every
car is a 1917 model, therefore con
taining the improvements and equip
ment that next year's automobiles
will have.
The automobiles and other prizes
can be won by the simple expedient
of gathering votes. Free votes are
published every day in The St. Louis
Republic, while thousands of addition
al votes can be secured by assisting
in extending the circulation of The
St. Louis Republic among friends.
Not only are the awards worth every
effort to secure, but the gathering of
votes will prove a fascinating pursuit.
Full details of The Republic's cam
paign with illustrations and descrip-
About six o'clock Friday morning,
November 3, 1916, Mr. Elza Albert
Reeves was called home to meet his
Savior. He was born September 7,
1886. He was united in marriage with
Miss Angie Young, February, 1908.
To this union two children were born.
He leaves a mother, father, one sis
ter, one brother, and wife and children
to mourn his loss.
He was ready to go and death was
a sweet relief to him, for he had suf
fered a long time. God alone can
comfort the loved ones and bring
them peace.
Though he's gone and we shall miss
him,
A vacant place in our home shall
ever be.
God gave him, and God called him
To his reward in eternity,
And to His will shall we ever bow,
Though it tears our hearts with
sadness,
And the bitter tears shall fall.
God will care and comfort all his
loved ones,
For His way is always right. X.
I
A five Years' Record
A Test That Must Impress Register Read-
"... eri.
Five years is a long time.
A rigid test of merit.
Mrs. Mayes testified over five ago.
She now says the results were per
manent.
Can Ironton ask for better evi
dence?
Mrs. Frank Mayes, Ironton, save
the following statement in October,
1911: "Kidney ana Diaaaer complaint
came on me and I couldn't control
tbe kidney action. 1 was unable to
stoop or lift on account of the pain
and bearing down feeling in my. back
Idoctoredjand used different remedies,
but the use of Doan's Kidney Pills
gave me much relief. This medicine
has my highest endorsement.'? '
, a lasting effect
On July IS, 1916, Mrs. Mayes said:
"The cure Doan's Kidney Pills made
tor me has been a lasting one. I have
trol, are well known. Many small
cities and towns are using gas
brought by pipe lines from the larger
cities where it is manufactured. ' The
utilization of artificial gas for illumi
nating, however, Is decreasing, main
ly because of competion by electricity.
'The quantity of artificial gas oil
aijd water gas and coal gas made at
retorts and by-products coke ovens
marketed and sold in 1915 was 265,
204,28,000 oubio feet, valued at 8173,-
832,132, according to statistics col
lected by O. E. Lesher, of the United
States Geological Survey, Department
of the Interior. This was an Increase
of 25 per cent in quantity and 17 per
cent in value, compared with 1912, the
next preceding year for which the sta
tistics of this industry were collected
by the Geological Survey.
The aggregate output of coal gas in
1915 was 128,103,346,000 cubic feet,'
valued at 948,882,007, an Increase com
pared with 1912 of 43 percent in quan
tity and 33 per cent in value. Water
gas enriched with oil, or carbureted
water gas, is more generally used in
cities than coal gas and formed about
k 7 o'er cent of the total quantity of
plete figures showing the sale of arti
ficial gas for various uses, for the re a
son that in many cities the gag for
illuminating and for fuel is not
metered separately . The statistics col
lected by the Geological Survey for
1912 showed that 47 per cent of the
artificial gas sold was used for illuml
nating. The statistics collected for
1915 show that 30 per cent of the vgas
sold was used for illuminating, 48 per
cent for domestic fuel, and 22 per cent
for industrial fuel.
Autumn Leaves Valuable for
Fertilizer.
Use as
li.J .n n . n r. I 1. 1 rl n Ii 1. iA.,Vla I)
50o, all dealers. Foster-Milburn I artificial gas sold in 1910.
Co., Mfgrs., Buffalo, N. Y. Adv.
Artificial Gas in 191 S.
The use of artificial gas as a domes
tic and Industrial fuel Is increasing.
In households gas Is replaolng coal for
cooking and to some extent for heat
ing, and in the Industries gas, mainly
from by-product ooke ovens, Is now
used for raising steam and firing open
hearth steel furnaces. The advantages
of gas as a fuel, not the least of which
are its cleanliness and lta ease ot con-
in nnilfomla. Arizona, and Oregon
nearly all the artificial gas Is made
from oil and In some other States
there are oil-gas plants. The quantity
of oil cas manufactured and sold In
tbe United States in 1915 was an In
crease, compared with 1912, of 13 per
cent in quantity and 12 per cent in
Value. The average value of oil and
water gas in 191S was 90 cents per
1.000 cublo feet, compared with 92
cents for eoal gas from retorts. -
It 1 trot possible to procure com
of
Autumn leaves are a most valuable
fertilizer and many who seek to ob
tain high grade stable manure at top
prices would do well to preserve the
leaves which fall from 'trees and
shrubs in their yards, H. F. Majors
Assistant Professor in Landscape
Gardening ot tha Department
Horticulture- of the University of
Missouri, ays. Millions ot bushels of
fertilizer which could be produced
from decaying leaves ara annually
wasted in Missouri because
thoughtlessness.
Experiments have proven that the
fertilizer produced is not only valuable
for farm fertilizer but for lawns and
gardens. At the University the leaves
are thrown into pits, soaked down
and slightly mixed with clay or rough
soil. At the end of a season, they
have become decayed forming a com
posted heap ot exceptionally valuable
mold. This fertilizer Is not only rich
humus and nitrogenous substance but
is free from weed seeds found in
stable manures. " '
When run through a screen it fur
PV H
Morning Comfort
Dress in a warm room
"heated quickly -and
evenT with a guaranteed
s unginai
Air-tight
Wood Heater
Built To Last
Only the heaviest and most
durable metal enters into its
construction. Extra heavy
gauge lining from bottom to
top inside of stove. It must
be built right to remain air
tight. Select your size and
style now.
Holds fire 36 hoars.
Lopez
Store Co.
IRONTON, MO,
NANNIE WALKER
A cknowledgments taken, Deeds of
all kinds written, and other Legal
Papers prepared. Copying on Type
writer solicited. Will be found at
home, north of brick hotel, corner of
Shepherd and Wayne streets,
IKONTON. MO.
THE1 UNIVERSAL CAR
New Prices August 1,1916
; The following prices for Ford Cars will
be effective on and after August 1, 191
Chassis - - - $325.00
Runabout - - - 345.01
Touring Car - - 360.00
rv...r.i. '05.00
VUUpUVl - - -
Town Car - - - 5o5.oov
Sedan - - 645.oo
P. O. B. Detroit t
FlGiGtier & Baroer Ironton Mo.
