THE
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAH
IEESMEN IAI
INDIAN DAI ORIS HUGE CROWD
FROM RESERVATIONS. HI
BATTALION THE DAY'S FEATURE
The tribes gathered at the fair grounds yesterday afternoon. From all
over the state, from every reservation under the special supervision of the
federal authorities,' came husky and dusky, redskins, all bent upon taking in
the delights of the fair and watching their younger generation parade in front
of the grand stand.
They enjoyed the whole day. They were amused when the races started
on the big track, they were pleased when the young Indians ran a mile, they
were tickled when, their policemen rode a hard half mile, they were excited
when the running horses carried their minature mounts around the oval, and
they were wildly enthusiastic when their children, the Indian icfTool battalion
paraded in front of the grand stand in martial array.
There were several thousand Indians on the grounds. There were sev
eral thousand more white people, yes, a good, large plentious several thou
sand. The iate receipts exceeded those of the other days of the week by a
substantial sum.
The fair started into its full swing when the turnstiles at the gates
started to click in rapid succession yesterday noon. The day was consider
ably warmer than the other two days, and during the early part of the after
noon overcoats were discarded in profusion.
The harness races were all good. The events of the afternoon being su
perior to the first two days. The running races developed excitement, though
there were no accidents as the day before.
There was no announcement on the , ' "
by'a program concerning the Indian
sports, but with the aid of a husky '
limped announcer on the inside track. J
the crowd was kept well informed. A i
ipimcn or inoian ihus, mi ware iuyi wiui
i. lie exception, lined up at 1 o'clock to
st-c who could negotiate a mile in the
shortest time. One lad, the only one
wearing shoes, led the crowd the whole
mile. On the last lap, within ten yards
of the judges' stand, a short, fat, husky
voting redskin, built more for comfort
rather than speed, threw "her" into
lngh, and nosed out nis rival, i ne .
inrong ruareu us approval, uiiu gaspeu
v .tli tim'tvAmpnt U'h.n the Vlnnor c lltl- 1
pronouncable name was given out.
Kven the starter could not spell it.
i'robably the most sensational event
of the afternoon occurred at a time
when the crowd was not looking for it,
::ud without any preparation whatso
ever. A young cowpuncher. clad in a
blue and red striped Jersey, was at-
i.-iuii.m m , u.lu,.B tr. ... ,.r
enclosure. i ne sieei, leeiiui; me n-fii
f more space and a li'tle air. jumped
the. fence into lha half mile track,
then jumped the fence into the mile
track and headed down stream towards
the grand stand. The doughty cow
puncher put his mount to both fences,
followed the steer, caught up with him
ia front of the stand, dropped onto
bis lrrns with a flourish, caught it
j-ist right, and turned the animal over
v ith a snap. It was the cleverest piece
.1 w.illv inmeu l "i ""
OWU ttflll Willi Ml t,im-i l' ,,i,-v,
-pproval.
T, - . p,,,j.
Five hundred voting boys' and girls.
Ml dressed in uniforms looking as spick '
and span as if thev had just stepped
out of a bard box, filed past the grand
. . .i ..r,.i,i.i ,k. i.i ..,,rta..t
, ..' u..,.
(leu, a
tuard.
f,..r,r .tfir.r in fh. na r,n;,l
... i : ,...,, ,u (,,'.
.-,w,.u in ... mi.
,.,( nnrt s each company, be they
t.n,'n r. f dlrlu i iltil nrtt mtitfl.l TTlft
opposite him, the command eyes -"
right," accompanied by a salute, gave-1 Is represented by two genile
him official recognisance. : men '; name f 1-rcd (arlson and
Kol'oning the parai'e about three Sodermair- k said that tnese
hundred girls lined up in front of the '"l"'K men hav; the '" """I 'h
stand, ecii'ipped with dumb be Us and farlrst slroKe in the west. They have
Indian clubs. Thev then went through pportors among the I.isbee contin
a drill which opened the eyes of the Pp"t who are raring to go in support
crowd, to what is being done at the big "f their douhle jaek artists. Altogether
H-hool north of town. The girls showed t appear to the layman that
the benefit of consistent and painstak- 'the Miami boys should send for a dray
in;,' training, keeping time well, and ""'1 'heir bankers to aid in straighten
never missing their cue when it came '"5 "P a" financial affairs,
time to change exercises. I M"n fm Glnlie and Miami have ar-
Then. too. there was auto polo. In ranged to be on band to see that their
past years it has been a hard matter teams get proper moral support. Wilson
to hold the crowds until the last hour. Wright the county seat postmaster will
ltat yesterday il needed no official an- he on hand accompanied by his wife,
noiincer to tell what was coming. Kv- ' H. (ilge Tunis. Miami cily engineer and
eryone wanted to see the auto polo, and manager of the Apache trail ronsolld-
pr.tctically everyone remained to be in ated Mines company will occupy a box
at the death. with Mrs. Tunis and Mr. and Mrs. Phil
As usual the antics of thV little cars Norton, of Roosevelt Gold f.'nie. 'if-
carsed no end of excitement and pal- ford Kaires, the new representative
pitntitig hearts. The rats whirled from Gila county with Mrs. Kaires and
'round and 'round, climbud over one the children will be a strong factor in
onothf r, broke wheels, turned over and lending encouragement to thiv Miami
rli.l stunts which no othor car but a
l'ord would dnre attempt. ' (Cont limed on I'ngf Two)
WHITE CHINESE. VILLA'S TERM
FOR ABU HE MURDERS
Repeal-can A. P. Leased Wirel
IX PASO, Nov. 15. Francisco Villa
re'erred to Americans as "whh
Chinese" at I'arral, when he entered
the town at the head of his troop)
following Us evacuation by Geneial
j.u.s nerrera, a -'
irom I'arral. who ame to the bor-
..er last n...i ul!u'" ".l
l eciaieu. Ill a pyrr, n in .v,.i .
of Purral, Villa naid he intended to
kill all Chinese and "white Chinese,'
meaning Americans, the refugee rf
,iorted. Three Chinese were said to
have been killed there by Villa ban
dits. Villa also announced
te.ition to eo to Chihuahua
capture it from the Carra
the refugee added.
Pets'nir.g S:oct Released
I"L PAS'), Texas. Nov. 15 After
being in the Juarez. Jail since Novem
ber 7, during which time he exi e"t l
to be shot as a VI1H snv. Ben'amin
l:rahan was released at the military
beadouarters in Juarej late tndav and
came to the American side
of the
river
Tlrnhan said he knew of no te' so.i
whv he was orre-stM other than tin
fac t that ho was a scout for Gen -
r:il Pershing in Mexico.
"I went to Juarez to see a f-lend
before returning to Join the punltiva
expedition," Brahpn raid tonight af-
ter reaching Us hotel here. "I saw
Carranza ommmder on th street
In Juarez whom I bad known at
Cnsas Grnndes when I was with Oen-
enl rershlng.
There is an American fenut, he
.fluid to another officer when he saw I
Arizona State
13 PAGES
There was not a single feature to
mar the day. The rates were started
witn more itiea of a set tjme than here.
tufore, even though a horse or so hap-
i.ened to be left out
j The hi-i!ai!e. which has been on the
grounds for the whole week, did not
, t;o up. It has not gone up all week.
and unless needed repairs arrive to
t day. there will be no flights this week.
; The balloon went up. though, but
the strong wind earned the huge en-
yeiope back of the grand stand, spoll-
jns the crowd's vicw'of the drop to
mother earth.
hock ur.inng contest.
An event of importance to all mining
men and of interest to the layman will
take place this afternoon under the
auspices of the Mineral exhibitors at
the state fair. Joe V. 1'rochaska, super-j
lntenuent or the Mines exhibit an-'
nounced yesterday that the crack teams,
of the state would try for the honor
of being declared the fastest team on
the double jack in the west. So much
interest has been . expressed in this
event that those in charge of the pro-1
gram have ordered the granite block'
moved from in front of the Minen
blunting to a central position m front
of the grand stand.
Miami mining men and boosters are
backing "Slasher" Jack Herrington and
his partner Bill O'Xeil against the
field. The only reason they IioH for
even money, they say. is that they wish
'to h.-.ve cnrren.v tr. ,.v.nwulr ov-rv
,,1,. TJ,.,. I,, ..,-,... ,1,,..
jean give the other teams a handicap
an,,:''!'11 .... ' ,
' 'Vi ' ? , R,,P''or,t"s
the (Wobe contingent declare that a
ood 'P'ntity of Old Dominion co,per
nas been converted into lighter but
.more useful currency of the realm and,
slaughter. George Zapp and Bill Gold-
.a ... ta . aic i - x in i i 'ic ,
V,,. ..:.. 1 .v.- , n.llr,.,.n II n Ht -,... 1.1 l.
"trill i:,l r- unrn , it iui q ,11 in.- l,,L.-,t dllU
they claim they will bring home the
me," Brahnn continued.
'I was immediately placed tinder
arrest, taken to the jail an t locked
in the 'incommunicado' (ell.'' Hta
ran said. "1 was not told officially
that I was to be (shot but I :n
given to understand I would be e.v-
edited. After Andres Garcia took nn
lnt(.r()t ,n , wag u.e.
.much better," he concludej
Joseph Williams the Mormon, will
be released as soon as he is able
to furnish a bond of 10,000 pesos,
it wa.4 announced tonight. '
tJzJS.Intense Cold On
Causes Guards to Desert
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DEM1NG, N. M.. Nov. 15. The fourth
separate brigade, which left here on a.
! practice march culminating Ih mancuv -
era at Fort liayard, is badly disoigan-
'd " the result of the extreme cold the troops, said tonight that he had
j to which the men have been subjected been advised of 145 desertions.
'and on account of sickness and de-1 The brigade, it is learned, is on Its
sertions, according to reports received way back, catling short the maneuvers,
, here tonight from Kort Hayard. 'and encamped at Apache Tejo, four
i Th death from spinal meningitis of miles from Whitewater,
i Corporal Hunt of company I, First) The remains of Corporal Hunt were
Arkansas infantry, who recently joined burled in the cemetery at Fort Bayard.
hi regiment after being on duty at, Medical authorities at the base hospital
i Batesville, Ark., has caused consider- said that they did not believe there was
iable alarm in the camp. Five men are any danger of an epidemic of spinal
aiM) dangerously ill with pneumonia.
Deserters, unable to endure longer
Fair and Exposition, November
ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
PHOENIX, ARIZONA,
A Will iivi
A
Railroads
BRITISH ADMISSION OF
WHY CALIFORNIA
WENT DEMOCRATIC
I (Republican A. P. Leased Wire)
I, SAX KKANCISC'O, Nov. 15.
j Chester H. Howell, chairnuin of the
I republican state central eommit
I tee, issued a statement today
I charging that the republicans who
undertook to look alter Charles K.
Hughes during his trip through
California, not only made a bad job
j of it. but suppressed and disobeyed j
i instructions from the east. The i
I statement blames them for the loss
of the state from the republican j
I column. !
"If the advice and practical de- !
I niands of the national managers of
! .Mr. Hughes' campaign had not been
i defied and suppressed by those
! temporarily in charge of it in Cali
fornia," the statement said, "Mr.
Hughes would now be, beyond
question, president-elect of the
United States."
Francis V. Keesling, chairman of
i the republican state central cum-
i mittee at the time Mr. Hughes
wa.i In the state, said, "I'm not go-
; ing to say anything. The telegrams
I were ail published at the time."
n
MR. HUGHES WILL TAKE REST
fReoi.blican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK. Nov. 15. Charles E.
Hughes, republican candidate for the
nnwjiilonrv will loiive hero Kntnrrl:iv
with his family for I-ukewood. N. J..
Where lie will rest several weeks, it
wag announced tonight. William R.
Willcox. chairman of the republican
national committee, will accompany
Mr. Hughes to Lukewood. Mr. Willcox.
however. said he would keep in touch
w ith republican headquarters here by
visiting the city j-everal days a week, i
ISTERU PEOPLE
saw nnil NT
Pi I I 'I I II f 1 1
fll I I l'fjf
II I lllllbll
II I UUIIlta
inn nnsi tii i ii i n
i i i i n 1 1 n hi 1 i i
T
-Republican A. P. Leased Wire) The Karl of T-ytton civil lord rf
WASHINGTON, Nov. 13 President the admiralty, having denied that the
Wilron expressed his gratitude to th!''1 had deported from Its tr.uii
people of the west for their support I tional policy of seeking out and
in the election, in messages sent to
-f, v .,. .f.j "'I""1" I"- 1
visit that section before congress
"l" II'- iu ll'" nwinu i 'T- Ull.t-Hl
'to make the trip at prerent because i
of critical duties, but promised
to go
west later if possible.
The president sen: the following
telegram to Wm. H. King, successful
candidate for the I'nited Slate senate
from ltah:
"The Invitation to visit the west
tugs hard at my heart, because I feei
deeply grateful to all the west for
the splendid and generous support
you have given me. but I would not
lie worthy of their generous confid
ence if I were to leave my desk at a
time when duties of the most critical
and pressing sort crowd upon me. X
am pr omising myselt ihe pleasure of
such a trip, if ever I can get free i
itom ine tons 01 exacting ai tv, ami
in the meantime wish to express my
d-ep gratitude, appreciation, and re
gie ''
r!- Rent this message to V. O. Hon.
fibs and II. II. Tannnrn, of the Denver
i i'nf "You may oe sure that I would
come if 1 could, but I would not de.
setvc the confidence of the people of
..,.li. f.n.1 tl.n rtft cir tl... '
west, if 1 wcr to turn nwav at t
Juncture fr ini the public duties which
press upon me. I want, first of all,
to b" sure that f am doing the Job
right, which they have imposed upon
rr:e with their generous Confidence.
I wish .nosl heartily that I were free
to come, but I really am not and can
only thiiiik you from the bottom of
my heart." '
The presid'r:t alpo has written let
ters to Gavin McNabh. democratic
national committeenu.n, of California,
and several other d(-rnocra tic leaders In
that state, expressing his apprecia
tion of California's support
FUNERAL OF DR. LOWELL
Republican A. P. Leased Wire)
KLAGSTAKK. Ariz.. Nov. 15. The
funeral of Dr. Percival Ixwe!l. founder
and director of the Lowell O wrva
torv here, and an astronomer of In
ternational reputation, who died here
last .Sunday from a stroke of apo
lexv, will be hold Sunday. The body
will be placed In a mausoleum on Mar
Hills, directlv in front of the 24 -inch
I telescope where Dr. Lowell made many
of his planetary discoveries.
Border
jthe intense cold of the high altitudes
. have been arriving here singly and in
squads since last night. Captain John
'C. I'egram. In temporary command of
Camp Deming during the absence of
I meningitis. No new cases were reported
today.
' THURSDAY MORNING,
,
OSSESSION OF FAD
Begin Their Attack on the Adamson Law
s
PARLIAMENT
f E-puhtlcan A. P. Leased Wire "
1-ONIXiN, Nov. 15 The matter of
the destruction of British shipping by
lerman submarines came up in the
bouse of lords today. Huron Syden
ham invited the government to make
s' declaration in the nature of a
"ton tor ton" policy In behalf 01
Jreat Britain and i er allies as
reply to "the monstrous proceedings'
of the Ceiman submarines. He d.
clurvd that there was sn uneasy feel
ing in tee country that the submar
ine menace was more serious limn,
the authorities were willing to admit.
Admiral Ixrd Heresford said that
Great Britain had arrived at a seri
ous crisis railing for energy and fore
fig! t. It was time for jiain shak
ing, localise the house of commons
:mil the newspapers had been muz
zled by the most autocratic govern
ment since the time of PhuraoTt.
"Had the blockade bee properly
enforced from the first." he asserted,
"we should not have been face 1 by
tiii: submarine menace."
The Marquis of Crewe, lord presi-
d'"1 'f 'he totin-fl. replying for ths
P"vernment. said it was useless to
make such declarations as Lords
l.-.yoennam ar.u ueresiord ciemancua,
I without the power to enforce them.
The only voices which would speak
, with influence now were the voices
of the cannon on the variom fi-onti.
i "It is useless." said the .Marquis of
Crewe, 'to threaten to exact pjrti
cular reparations in the terms of
I eace unless we are aide to imnose
those terms hy obtaining a cc:mplet
i victory,"
a'tmirauy, continued the lord
t ,,r' "',1?n'. had been singalarly suc-
i''es - ful in 4he destnntion of enemv
"l',,'n'rin". but the difficulties m
'dealing with this menace had in-
The admiralty, continued the lord
r"a.Hed
destroying the enemy, the sub ect
"' I'l"-".
The Food Shortaqe
LONDON, Nov. 15. The price of
food, winch has be- ome such a sen-
oih m.ttcr in Kngland as In all
her belligerent countries. wa li
cised in the house of commons to
c'nv. William Hewins, Unionist mem
ber from Hereford, introduced the
following resolution:
"In the opinion of the house it is
ti e duty of the government to adopt
fcrther methods of organization to
increase jmd conserve the national
f.wd supply and to diminish the
risk of shortage and serious increase
of rri"ps in the event of the w;T
bein? prolonged."
The debate on this resobitiun va
iiecte'd to retilt In drastic nro-
exiecte'd
p isaU to deal with the difficulties of
th present fosition.
The activity of German submarines
in finking a large number of p'-iw,
i. related closely to the price of food.
ELFCTION FRAUDS DISCOVERED
TReoubMcan A. P. Leaved Wir.i
rifiiwr.' -n.-,. i: t,i
. IL" """' -IHM-UVITI
voles ivns
He first fruit todav of the Investiga
tion ordered yesterday, by Atorney
general Peterson. Into i'flpected state
wide election frauds. The prosecuting
attorney or Washington county de
clared these 35 votes to have been
Irregularly sworn in on election dav,
and added that 35 additional Votes
prohnbly had been cast there.
o
American Mines
Prey To Haste In
Development
'Sepuhlican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO, Nov. 15. The develop
ment of the mineral resources of the
United States was described as an
orgy of hasty exploitation by Van
H. Manning, director or the bureau
of mines, addressing the American
Mining Congress today.
"Great as has been the advance
in the mining industry," he siiid, "it
i deplorable to have to say that it
has been carried on in a most waste
ful manner and with little regard for
!the safety of the men who labor in
tne mines.
"Had our mineral resources been
wisely develocd, they would have
lusted many years longer and yield
ed ten times as much wealth.
"Tire chief need of the? United
States if it would meet new condi
tions of trade lit a deeper and wider
co-operation among our Industries
and the elimination of factionalism
and sentlmentalism."
Dr. George Otis Smith, director of
the geological survey, declared that
any regulation of prices needed to be
under federal control. "The private
iwner of coal land has no more
sacred right to say whether coal shall
be mined or fix an exorbitant price
on the indispensable national re
source than the coal operators have
to combine to exact an excessive
profit from the consumer or the rail-
roads to charge
all the traffic will
bear'
IRE
SPOKEN
13, 14, 15, 16, 17
NOVEMBER 16, 1916
SUBMARINE MENACE
TOD A Y'S FAIR PROGRAM
Fraternal Day
Thursday, November 16, 1916
9:00 A. M. Opening of the great gates at the fair.
1C:00 A. M. Judging in all departments closes.
10:00 A. M. Buttei-lat contest continues.
10:00 A. M. Teachers' Institute continues at High School.
12:00 M. Opening of the Grand Stand at Fair Grounds.
1:C0 P. M. Grand Livestock parade.
P. M. Harness Race Program in the Mile Track.
The 2:12 pace.
The 2:18 pace.
The 2:C9 pace.
P. M. Running Kace Program i n the Half-Mile Track.
v ?4-mile open for purse of $200.
2-mile Arizona two-yea r-olds for $200.
1 1-16-mile Arizona derby tor $400.
2:30 P.M. Tao jack drilling contest before the grand stand.
Rodeo sports ior world's championship inside the halfmile track.
::C0
P. M. From 2 o'clock until 4 P.
mown Dstors tne urana
DARE DEVIL FLOREY
The Bicycle Diver, in Plunge for
Life
FLYING DAVID
In Daring Parachute Drops
DIVING DIANA
In Fancy and Hazardous Aquatic
Events
HANKINSON'S AUTO POO '
"The Most Exciting Game in the World." Two Exhibitions: Great Britain vs.
America.
7:00 P. M. Grand Water Carnival at Carnival grounds.
7.-00 P. M. Performances in all down town theaters.
E
r
Republican A. P. Leaced Wire
ATLANTIC CITY, X. J., Nov. io.
I'nless new and unexpected opposition
develops, members of the Mexican
American joint conference believed to
night, an agreement covering the with
drawal of the American punitive ex
pedition and a method of border con
trol will be ready by the end of the
week for submission to the two gov
ernments. Announcement that an
agreement was in sight was made by
Ignacio Honillas, one of the Mexican
representatives, at the close of a ses-
sion that had lusted until night.
The altered attitude of the Mexicans
indicated by the announcement, devel
oped at the second session today, al
though it was not attended by Luis
Cabrera, who did not return from Phil
adelphia until late tonight. He was
accompanied here by Ambassador
designate Arredondo and Mrs. Arre
clondo. Xo significance seemed to be
attached to the coming of the ambas
sador since it has been known for
some time that he had plannel to spend
a brief holiday here shortly before the
adjournment of the commission.
Although Mr. Cabrera has not been
here since he manifested his opposi
tion to the plan that was sanctioned
Monday by his colleagues, it is known
the other Mexicans were in telephonic
communication with him today. It is
not believed, however, that the unex
pected development late today was due
to his counsel.
Mr. Cabrera, it now is known, has
been opposed, apparently unalterably,
to the plan as it has been discussed.
There appeared reason to believe that
he had suggested a counter plan, but
(Continued on Page Two)
PLANS FDR TH
W W
T
1
DEMOCRATS FEEL CONFIDENT
IN CALIFORNIA VOTE RECOUNT
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAX FRANCISCO. Nov. 15. Predic
tion that the lowest democratic elector
in California will run ahead of the
highest republican elector were made
tonight by democratic leaders after
watching the slowly augmenting re
aurns from county clerks.
"The difference will lie about 600 in
favor of the democrats," said Sidney
M. Van Wyck, Jr., chairman of the
democratic campaign national commit
tee. Available Incoming returns were
considered in themselves, not an index
of the situation, proportionately, be
cause they were from smaller counties
most of which had given Wilson good
majorities. They showed the lowest
democrat H.773 ahead of the highest
republican but nearly all the big coun
ties still were missing.
If Charles E. Hughes concedes the
re-election of President Wilson by next
Friday, Vance C. McCormick, chairman
of the democratic national committee
probably ' will discuss plans for the
president's Inauguration with local
democratic leaders when he comes to
Washington on that day. Usually the
chairman of the inaugural committee
which has charge of the parade and
other civic ceremonies is selected soon
after the election. It is taken for grant
ed by officials that the president, fol
lowing out his plan of 1S13, will have
no inaugural hall.
Minnesota Plurality Cut.
ST. PAUL, Nov. 15. With forty-six
of the eighty-six counties in Minnesota
and 18, 1916
18 PAGES
M, the following big free acts will be
stand:
THE GREAT HAREM MYSTERY
NACE AND ZARADO
Gymnastic Experts
THE PABST KIDS
Boxers and Wrestlers; "Paper
weight" Champions
HARRY CRAWFORD
in His Passenger-Carrying Bi-Plane
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Nov. 15. Incom
plete canvasses of the vote in several
close congressional districts today
brought no changes in the unofficial ;
election results, ' which indicate that
217 republicans, 212 democrats, and six
of other parties have been elected to
the sixty-fifth congress. Representa
tive Doremus, chairman of the demo
cratic national committee, still claims.
however, that democrats will make
j gains on the final returns in six or;
j seven of the close districts, which ap
j parent ly have elected republicans by
small majorities. Seaker Clark and
i other democratic leaders also confi-
dently exjiect to cut down the republi
can plurality.
Representative Woods, chairman of
the republican committee, insisted to
night that the republicans undoubtedly
would control the organization of the
house. A speaker to be elected must
receive a majwity of the house, or 218
votes. Although the unofficial returns
show the republicans to be one short
REPUBLICANS
LEAD DE FIVE
IN THE HOUSE
of a majority, they are counting on the jeach suit as it comes up for hearing,
progressive elected in Minnesota, the j Assistant Attorney General Underwood
progressive-republican in Louisiana j will have direct charge of the govern
and the independent in Massachusetts I ment's defense and Frank Hagerman of
to vote with them for James R. Mann
for speaker.
Prospects of a republican gain were
apparent in the thirty-second Pennsyl
vania district whore the canvass of all
Pittsburg precincts today showed Rep
resentative Rarchfeld leading Guy
Campbell, his democratic opponent, by
12 votes. On the unofficial returns
Campbell led Harchfeld by 19 votes.
County precincts still are to be can
vassecl. Chairman Fitzgerald of the house ap-
(Continued on Page Two)
having turned in their tabulation slice's
to the secretary of state, and with un
official returns from the remainder, Mr.
Hashes' plurality was cut to 3K5. The
total vote was Wilson 177,798; Hughes
17S.1S3. t
The official vote, checked over at the
capitol today gave Wilson 69,598 and
Hughes 80,075, indicating a big lead for
the republican candidate, outside of St.
Paul and Minneapolis.
In the 46 counties, Allan L. Benson
Socialist, polled
8,095, and J. Frank
Hanley, Prohibitionist, 3, SOS.
Dutch Parliament Makes
Change In Suffrage Laws
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
TEH HAGUE, Nov. 15 (vial-ondoni.
By unanimous vote parliament has
passed a resolution providing for the
amendment of article 80 of the con
stitution, so that henceforth there
will be universal manhood suffrage
and no plural votes or compulsory
voting.
The sex disability of women also
is removed hy the resolution. The
actual granting of the vote to wom
VOL. XXVII., NO. 181
GROOMS
IS IT MUD?
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
XKW YORK. Nov. 15. Suits filed by
railroads against the federal govern
ment to test the constitutionality of the
Adamson eight-hour law also are ex
pected to result in the internrotntir...
I of the statute if it be upheld, the rail
road managers comprising the national
conference committee of railways an
nounced in a statement here tonight.
onus uesignea to lest the validity of
the law and to restrain the government
from putting it into effect were filed
in this city today bv the New Vnrt
Central and Krie railroads.
himilar suits are to he brought with
in the next few days by each railroad
in the country in each of the feiWai
districts it traverses, according to Eli
sha L. Lee, chairman of he conference
committee. Mr. Lee issued a statement
at the end of the committee's three-dav
secret session, explaining the railroad's
program in their fight against the law
The statement follows:
"Two questions are involved in the
appeal by the railroads to the courts
for light on the Adamson law:
"1 Is the law constitutional?
"2 If it is constitutional what does
it mean?
"There are conflicting opinions as to
how the law, if constitutional, should
be applied.
"Therefore, the railroads must, as a
matter of duty, ask the courts if the
law is within the power of congress.
It is a duty they owe, not alone to the
owners of these properties, but also
to the public that provides the revenues
for the payment of wager
"If the law is declared unconstitu
tional it is said the cottrts will make
clear its meaning and the railroad, it
is unnecessary to say, will faithfully
follow instructions of the courts.
"In the bringing of suits throughout
the country the railroads have no de
sire to delay action or to resort to
technicalities. The railroads are anxious
to have a speedy decision on the points
at issues. These separate suits are
necessary to protect the. individual
roads. A single suit would protct the
individual road only in the point of
jurisdiction which the test case was
brought and would leave all roads to
prosecution in other Jurisdictions.
"The railroads have chosen what
seems to be the shortest and most prac
tical method of reaching an early de
cision, and. in the meantime avoiding a
multiplicity of prosecutions and suits.
"The railroads earnestly desire to
take the right road, and it is for this
reason that they have asked the courts
for light to show them the road.'
The Government's Defense.
WASHINGTON, Nov. 15. Suits hy
railroads attacking the constitutionality
of the eight-hour railroad law were
begun today in many parts of the coun
try and the department of justice plans
to defend them.
No offer yet has been made by the
railroads to settle the question by one
test case. It was stated officially that
Attorney General Gregory has made no
such proposition to the railroads and
(the department is planning to contest
Kansas City, Mo., has been retained
to assist him. Mr. Underwood expects
to appear personally in most of the
cases, but their number may make it
necessary to employ other specitl
counsel.
The attorney general and Solicitor
General Davis have been in conference
with Mr. Underwood frequently since
the first suits were filed and the gen
eral lines of defense have been laid. In
formation so far reaching the depart
ment shows that the railroads baVe their
prayers for temporary restraining or
ders against the law becoming effective
on the ground that it is .unconstitu
tional and incapable of enactment.
o .
"Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LOS ANGELES, Nov. 15. A fifth
transfusion of blood was made late to
day into the veins of Mrs. Inez Milhol
land Boissevain New York suffragist,
and the patient's condition was report
ed as "critical.' tonight by the attend
ing physicians. Pleuresy developed to
day to complicate the severe anemia.
Mr. and Mrs. John E. Milholland of
New York, parents of Mrs. Boissevain,
were at the patient's bedside in a hos
pital here.
en, however, is still distant as it
depends on the passing of an elector
al bill, which at present is unlikely.
Early in the present year Premior
Dort Vande'r Linden, of The Nether
lands, introduced a. bill in parliament
under the provisions of which the
constitutional obstacles in the way
of women's rights to vote would be
removed. The bill also included a
provision giving women the risht to
be elected to office.
ITSIING?
HOW APPLIED ?
INEZ 1LUD
IS NEAR DEATH
