4.4.
Pair Tartlar a4 KrMaji
Klala Traiarratarr KrMa?. !
public
!- THF LBDGIB It aa airar-
Ualav atHlaai that arlaft 1.
aalta. Oar rata ara Mialat
! aal with rlrralatloa. Try aa.
MA Y8VILI.F, KENTUCKY. THUR8DA Y, NOVEMBER 18. 1916.
OiVJf COPY ONB CENT.
fMKKLV Tt Xi.irA v Mt?
AAll. MH..1 ;.a .; la.
COURT OF APPEALS ;""
. 1 w. - .i..i The MfM Meeting f the HrH
Keirrf Opinion f thf Man t Irriilt ta
' I ... ..., rtaptlat ( linreli thla evening will be in
J'nnrf In the t ae (if the l.onhnllle ' ....... ,. ,, i.,,
, ., eharge of Hip B . IV I'. I'realdert
Tiibarrn arahmme t iim- .. 1
aw a-- I William It. Italdwln haa arranged a
pan) , . plendll program In which quite a
Frankfort. Ky.. Hi I ill I 1B-Thr rumb"r f hp "" l,oople wl"
..f Appea.H reversed the M.aon ' "' h'
.... , 1,,,- (ho church will make a appclal effort
Circuit court In the case of the I.oula-
. . , . to attend th id service and thua lend
Villa Toliacro Warehouse company
. . ,, , encouragement to the young folK.
arainat J M. Icp. , ,, .
.... .,, ...,,,,, Strangera and visitors are cordially In-
The litigation In this caae reaulted ... . v . .
. h v ted and will be given a hearty wrl-
o-er a Hett lenient of transactions bo-
, , come. 7 o c ork Is the hour,
tween hee and the company for four r--- .
t j. . , - Sunday School Teachers' meeting
years ending January, 1914. Ourln? '
that time the company furnished L f" f?.11"
alth $100,000 with which to buy tt. c onducted by Prof. W. J. Capllnger.
bacco to be sold In Its warehouse In JNI'RY 1
Louisville. I'urchaaoR were made In
Maaon. Fleming and Lwis countler.. - . . ...
The new telephone directories will
where Lee lived. Deducting the In- ,
not be out until January 1 Instead of
terest, storage and credits given Lee.
1 ...... m some time during this month as prev-
the company claimed that he was $12.- - -
- - ' lonely announced. Numerous changes
984.07 n debt to It. The case was ' , . ,
. . . were to be made in the numbering of
tried by a jury and a verdict of $9.68
. . some of the phones In the city and the
vaa given to Lee. The court saya the '
" , ... ... offlclala of the company thought it best
question Involved Is whether the
to wait until the first of the year to
warehouse company, ar any time when . . , . ,.
'I 7 ,, . , print the book so as to Include the
It was directed by Lee to sell his to- nan(eg
bacco, failed or refused to do so or ,
within a reasonable time after recelv- RABBITS PLENTIFUL
Ing such directions. After an axamln-
atlon of the evidence the court saya The returnlng hunters report that
that the verdict Is against the evl- rabDltB nrP fnlriy plentiful this year
dmce and reversed the lower court and are very fat and free from disease,
for a new trial. 0tH, nuntcr la reported to have killed
13. Thov are selling at 20 cents apiece
ANOTHER BIG MEAT SALE
SATI KDAV SI'Ef lALS PAI ( AK nhHl
Rib Hoast, pound 15c Tnp , & N pay car wa9 m th,9 cUy
Loin Koast, pound 15cetterday and distributed a large
Plate Roast pound 10c pmouIlt of th(1 cf)in of ,h(, realm to ,llP
Chuck Roust, pound 11c emp,ovee of thc cornpany here.
Loin Steak, pound 15c
Round Steak, pound 15c mi89 ciarlbtll Edmonds returned 1.0
Chuck Steak, pound 12c i:cr homo In Covington yesterday af-
All kinds of aausage, pound lGc fef a vlalt with Mr and Mrs. T Nenl
WEIS' CENTRAL MARKET. Hubbard of Upper Short street.
. I
WANTED The regular session of the auxiliary
. of the Mason County Health League
Copies of the Lodger of September 4 will be held this afternoon at 2 o'clock
and November 7. I'lcase bring to this on Court street.
office.
I Roth steel and fiber rollers at the
Freeh Oysters at John O'Keefe. Rink.
WALSH RESIGNS
ln.ni lnlt.lnn a Nlprhl Nanreant
the Mayavlll Pallre Farce Ye,
day V Iter nun 11.
tSKEH FOR ENMRUEMENT
SCHOOL
OF
Harbeson Garage
Will Put Your Car in
Good Order For
Winter.
Parts and Sup
plies Gars For Hire
GoodJIar
tV RON. OHIO
Fortified Tires
FORTIFIED AGAINST
Rim-Cute - hy the No-Rlm-Olt (eaturt.
3lo wools by the "On-Air" cure.
Loom TroaoV by many rubber tlveti.
locuritf by 126 braided nlano wire.
Puncluroe and Skldduis by tbe double
thick All-Weather tread.
Everybody Skate
to the Right!
Princess Rink opens Thursday
Night at 7:30. Music by the
Maysville Band. Go out with
I the crowd and forget your
troubles.
Admission 10c.
Skates 15c
C. CALVERT EARLY
MANAGER
PRINCESS RINK
Mr. Harry L. Walah reaigned hla po
nltlon aa Bight aergeant on the Maya
vllle Police FVirce yesterday afternoon
hla resignation taking effect at once.
No ono haa heen appointed to fill the
position aa yet.
The resignation was caused by a
controversy between the sergeant and
Chief of IVllce Mackey. On Tuesday
one of the officers heard another one
I. l( nlione to It'pley and ask George
Dale to bring him a quart of whiskey
This conversation waa reported to the
chief and Dale was later arrested hy
him. Dale ulleged that he sent the
whiskey to Maysville by a friend who
left It at one of the hotels and asked
Walsh to notify the other officer. Tlila
Walsh did. The chief heard of the
matter and Immediately placed the
other fellow under arrest for bringing
whiskey into local option territory for
other than his own use.
The chief and Mr. Walsh then had I
controversy over the matter in the
court room. The argument became
very heated and it seemed for a time
as If the men would come to blows,
but this was averted.
Another cause of the trouble was the
part that Sargcant Walsh took In the
trial of Robort Outten for bootlegging
Mr. Walsh aided the defense In the se
lection of the jury and he and the
chief also had an argument over th's.
Yesterday afternoon Mr. Walsh
hunted up Mayor Lee and handed In
his resignation. No one has been ap
pointed to his place and it is under
stood that It will be left vacant until
after next council meeting. An ordi
nance will be brought up at that time
to make the position of night sergeant
elective instead of appointive as here
tofore. A night sergeant will then be
eiected by the council for one year.
It Is quite probable that there will
be a general shake-up in the I'oliec
Department at the regular meeting of
Citv Council In December.
At the lust meeting of the Hoard of
' 'm atlnn of the public schools a peti
tion was pr"sented to that body ask
ing that n'i iiddllion be built to the
Forest A wiiiic School. This addition
v li consist of four rooms and an au
nitorlui'i. I he Sixth Ward school will
be discontinued, all of the pupils In
the Kast Knd coming to the one build
ing. Tills ! a good move and It will
iti ubtless receive the attention of the
board at some future time.
FNTFKTAIN MFNT VFKV IWCBI1
INCOMPLETE CANVASSES
CATE (J. O. P. HOl'SE
INDI-
Washington, November 15 Incom
plete canvasses of the vote In several
close Congressional districts today
brought no changes in the unofficial
election results, which indicate that
217 Republicans, 212 DemocratB and
six of other parties have been elected
to the Sixty-fifth Congress. Repre
sentative Doremu8, chairman of the
Democratic National Committee, still
claims, however, that Democrats will
make gains on the final returns in six
or seven of the close districts which
apparently have elected Republicans
by small majorities Speaker Clark
and other Democratic leaders also
confidently expect to cut down the Re
publican plurality.
Representative Woods, chairman of
the Republican committee, insisted
tonight that the Republicana undoubt
edly would control the organization of
the House. A speaker to be elected
must receive a majority of the House,
or 218 votes. Although the unofficial
returns show the Republicans to be
one short of a majority, they are court
ing on the Progressive elected in Min
nesota, the-Progressive-Republican in
Louisiana and the Independent in Mas
sachusetts to vote with them for
James R. Mann for speaker.
Prospects of a Republican gain were
apparent In the Thirty-second Penn
sylvania district, where the canvass
of all Pittsburg precincts today show
ed Representative fiarchfeld leading
Guy Campbell, his Democratic op
ponent, by 12 votes. On the unofficial
returns Campbell led Darchfeld by 19
votes. Country precincts still are to
be canvassed.
FIVE JI'KOKS SELECTED
Georgetown, Ohio, November 14
One hundred and twenty-six men nave
been summoned as Jurors in the Saun
ders murder trial and after two days
only five jurors have puallfied. Thc
jurors selected are: John Mitchell,
Fayetteville; Henry Cahall, Ruaaell
vllle; William Gardner, Decatur; Har
land Thompson, Bthel, and J. G. Por
ter, Aberdeen.
BACK BROKEN
Mr. Thomas Herron was seriously
injured at the Bates & Rogers Con
struction camp east of the city this
morning when he suffered a broken
back. He was Immediately taken to
Hayswood Hospital. He will recover
from the shock but will probably be
left a cripple.
VIHNINti MAN NOT BE AMD FKON
Nothing has been heard of Lee
Kunyon of KlemingaburK, who la aup
poaed to have committed suicide here
Monday utbt by drownlni hituaalf
Hla He wma In this city yaaterday and
tdeutllled tha articles found on the tar
ry float aa belonging to hr husband
MMF RBLEftl CA F t BELLI
The entertainment given by the Parent-Teacher
Association of the Forest
Avenue District last night In thc school
building was very RiieteKsful. Over
KM were present and in addition a
large number of pies and candles were
sold. The association realized quite a
neat sum of money from the enter
t.'.lnment which will go toward pur
chasing a library for that building.
MARKIEB YESTERDAY
Mr. Henry K. Lundigan, son of Mr.
and Mrs. William Lundigan, and Miss
Mary Lena Ring, daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Jacob Ring of the county, were
married in the St. Patrick's Church
yesterday morning at 7:30 o'clock bv
Rev. P. M. Jones. They left on C O
train No. 1 on a short wedding tour.
They will make their home in this
city.
DANDY DIXIE MINSTRELS
The company played their opening j
data ni Gormantnwn Saturday to a
Inrge audience and every one seeing j
this show pronounced it (list class in ,
oery respect, thes how is composed of
local men and they carry their own I
bund and orchestra. The oompanv will
play Wheat lay Opara House ai Sard!''
Saturday, November 18th.
Aa a leading aopranlst with the Chi
cago Orchestral Choir, will appear on
the High School Lyceum Course, No
vember 17th. ,
Mme. Cafarelll will be the star at-1
traction In tin vocal part of the pro-;
gram.
Jaroslaw Qfflera, who Iiiih been th'
trombone soloist with Sousa's hand,
will be another feature of the cvenlni;
program.
Reserved seats at Williams' Drug
Store.
MASONIC MEETING
Called meeting Maysville Lodge, No.
52, F and A. M., at 7 o'clock Thurs
day evening. Work In F. C. and M. M.
degrees. Visiting brethren cordially
Invited.
If. M. CLARK, Master.
P. O. Smoot, Secretary.
BUST THAT CDLTJ!
We have thc fiimous Tancro Laxative Cold and Grip Tablets 26c
t I BE THAT CGI GH!
G"t the good A. I) S. White Pine with tenilml. Host cougl. medicine
on the market 25c
M. F. WILLIAMS & COMPANY
THE BEST $1.00 FITTED EYE GLASSES IN THE CITY
DO NOT ECONOMIZE WHEN GET
TING GLASSES
It would surprise you to know the
number of persons who wear wrong
glasses. Get them right see us
Dr. B. Kalin of Cincinnati on Mondays.
Dr. George Deine Every Day.
Optometrists and Opticions.
O'Keefe Hullding.
TURKEY BULLETIN
20caPound
The E L Manchester
Produce Co.
aaaaCMBPivlVaaaltBl
If You Are a Sufferer
From tbe Heat, Try Our
BIERLEY'S CDNFECTIiNERY
Creams and Ices
HI Vnrket Street
wut aid
m
m
PATHE II VND ('GLOBED
Tha special attraction at the Pastime!
today Is Jackie Saunders in "The!
Bhrlaa Of Happiness." The picture Is J
hand colored and was made hy Pathe.
MAGISTRATE'S COURT
In Siiuire Fred Dread's Court yes
f rday John Jackson, colored, was
fined $6.15 for breach of the peace.
"Meet me at the Prince Blnk to.
night."
"The Home of QUALITY Clothes"
"IN THE EYES OF THE WORLD"
While it is true that clothes don't make the man, you'll
have to admit that they have a lot to do with other ptople's im
pressions of him. The man who wears "Hechinger" Clothes
is beyond criticism.
Our New Fall Suits pid Overcoats are well made, along
new lines, of unusually attractive materials, and we know we
41 can fit you to one that will prove satisfactory in every respect.
0 They identify the wearer with prosperity and good taste.
Come in today. Prices are pleasing to you.
Id. hechingfr & co.
r
rfaf awVaaaMaVaarjiimU
THE NEW COATS
$10 TO $25.
Everybody seems interested in these smart coats, particularly the younger folk. There's a new note in every one of them:
they are different from the usual, practical topcoat; they are warm and colorful, yet all are so subdued that the most conser
vative women feel quite at home in them. Loose, easy models and many belted effects.
BLOUSES A FEATURE
OF THIS STORE
This is of course apparent to the many shoppers in our Blouse Section, who recognize the splendid values we offer. The
new models are wonderfully attractive Crepe de Chine, Georgette crepe and tub silk.
$2.50 to $7.SO.
1852 t"J J. C3 1916
: A Grocery Store's Sign Read
X Strictly Fresh Igfa Ml Dozen
A f resh ngs i"c wua
a Uood Egga Mc Dozen
X Kggs 20e Dozen
There are ditfemit kinds of eggs, just the same as there are different kinds of shoes. Ymi can Imy
STRICTLY ALL LEATHER SHOES.
9 ALL LEATHER SHOES.
LEATHER SHOES.
SHOES
9 Rut you Ml only Imy STRICTLY ALL LEATHER SHOES at our Shoe stote, lieeause we sell only shoes of quality for Men.
9 '-"dies and Children.
GALATEA CLOTH
. have just received a ahipiuent of Mill Knd of the genuine "Ironclad" gulateu cloth. The pieces run from 2', yarda to 6
yards. They are marked at about loc yard, which ia leas than the Mill a price for same today. A hit; assortment of patterns will
be found on the remnant table.
:
:
-SUU to tha list."
