fgHK J W
rr it i.
3 ax
BURLINGTON, VERMONT, THURSDAY, NOVEMBER JG, 191 0.
NUMBER 20.
VIOLENT COMBATS
nn'Hfll ATTAPlf
II SOU REGION
FOR GT. BRiTiiiri
North and South of the Rivcrl Appointment Forecast in Com
the Germans Make Ad- ! nions by President of Board
vanccs. ! f Trade.
Railroads Renin Suits in Many
Parts of Country Defense
is Planned.
W if I l I ' 1 Q H W H
mini p.fiMTnni i f r
nnnanw mim k aciu f
UUU UU ULLU" .
uuuiiuh jiiiLOUii iu nunui LLLU 1 LJJ
ON ADAMSON LAW
ATTACK ON WIDE FRONT.
FOOD TICKETS PERHAPS.
EXPECT EARLY DECISION.
0-
New York. Nov. i). I'rouiont wnson lias earner, uuiionna
.. .. i.r ,
I r .-1 II' 111 1- ' ' ill k'.Mt
L i . t v lu.ur.- at lor lh roll- closed in California. Republican
u.m Revel! conceded ihe Stale to the President. Thus the
i , i i l. T ' l i ... r ?i.. . ii...
. ... ii.i . l r njw' irn i il n i' Mill .1 miini-iii- 111 Tnii
niil crillr rrn t vntmpf i ii 1 n 1 hi rmocratie column rmr nrtn.'ii'piir.-
i i ii. i ..c .... ...t.:i. i i 1 ..
UU'll Lilt MII-DV 'UM lUMl (HI ll lvl wi un vn--l,lwll lllllll IliiU ULVU
iii,..i i:;.,..l Ii...!.!?
r;n i-ii-u in .- i -i uu nimno- 111,-iiui.v.
Republican Chairman. Willcox when informed that the Presi
had carried California only replied: "I have nothing to say."
CHTieiarv iummy at me ."miuiiiiui wnuu nuufu at anuiiow
i 11. 1 1 ... 1 I I).,,.,.:,l..t HT!I 1 1 II.
I . iilllL l, III' I II vi w ihhh.m i " ' t iv..aiiiv it ii.juu un iwin ii i ill
i Mavf lower onroute to Rhinecliffe. N. Y.
'Plin PnHfnl-lnsl ml II 111V ..llflWI'd tli;if Wlfll fllllv A7 flic! I'iol U
Jill. V'CHll.'llI'. ..... ....... . . Af Iltl'll iVl'
ing the President's plurality in the State was 3,018.
Barrinjr poiii wholly unexpected turn over in the incomplete
i I- i xx'li .-. i -i..i:
II-..LI111IU LlllX.llll 11 ll.-Ull. Ill 1 llllUIUl. HI (I 11. Vv.lll-
ia's aeouisition to the democratic column irave the President ! ,"","(,,,llf-
elei toril oles without New Mexico s three. In New Mexico!
REPUBLICANS HOPE YOUTH FiRSTVlCTIM
10 ELEGT SPEAKER OF DEER SEA
llrlllili MiiKr I'lirllirr (iiilns Niirlli or ' I 1-n-- 'I'hnl Oin i-rnmiMil l l.niiKtiiu
flu. A ni'rr TciiIum, llomli ltinl
Pftlnrr ni ftiii'linrr!.
I
riiriitiril to I'rnl rnrli'il IlimOlltici
mill lnl liruiiiili- ltriiiiiri'-.
Count on Votes of Independent Basil
and Progressive Representatives.
Piper.
SON
lOMilnn. .Vov.
Wrrr furthor
north of t Ii -ilatiiiK
lln'lr ii
l'ri'iu Ii .urn 1 1
IB. Wlilln til ISrlllPii
iiilviiiiclim tli"lr fniiil
rVlirte rlir nr i'OiihoIU
ivly won iidhII innx, t lie
rniiiim liuvi' liiM'ii I'D-
17, Stumbled and
Rifle He Was Carrying Was
Discharged.
1."i. liicnriU'lplPil
in f.piTal clo.si.
r:m-
C111-
V iiuliltiutnn. Nov.
vassry of i hi1 villi1
HM'Sslcin.it (It'trlrtH In-iljiy liimiKlit mi
i Imiitro.- in i'ii' iimiffiHnl oliTtimi ri'sults
lili Ii Inilirati. Hint 21? iimiI1p:ui Jl-
:i ml 'i. "T nllicr partios lwivi
lii'i-ii cl t - I in llir sixly-firtli I 'otifzr tki
I I ii'lirp .'i tit .1! h i. I infi'lullM. flmlrmnii nf llio
:,i..:..m 4I-..-. n..t.;,i..f i.-..c. 1-,,. o ,.,.i ,;iu i.-o ,i: i , ,
s niissintr, and it was not believed this advantage could be
1 . AT.. TT 1.. .
I.WIIII.- Liy i'ii iiiiiii;.
ic ' 'l
Sll llll'll
iillbllfin
it '
i i.-or
r-.aia. Now llatnl1
i.. Mr. I IiikIics- and
I! three -only iic
tlian the H'
"J vute In niKht
to Kpnro tor a
..rv in Callfoiiila.
'i N'nw Mexico.
1 1 ( tiiimilltce hoail
leil that after cnn-
W. Wli'Ki:lMliam.
n' nf I ho I'liiti'il
of N'oiv .lern'.v, Mr.
The Electoral Vote.
1 W.l
e lieiM i
r tior'ti f-.i
I.CrfH I'olhv
es ( h.i rman V'illrox anil llenrKe
eil.'iih of Ni VoiU, vrpin rations
lioint. made hein li-al tirooeud-
or reeounts . Si.it'H where the ie
wero elose
Irmnn u ill. . lm ludcil t'ai fiinna,
Metii'ii, Xnri i Uakota, New llamii-
and Minnct.mii. in his lint of f-'m.iv
reeo ' i lo ! id' wiul.l ' de
ed intra ic , .It i j i t i - iia- noi iie-
the ie .ii'ii ai.i in prcparinK for le
riveUipment!' f'hairnian McCorliiicl.
rred with Mti .1 I'.. 1'arlier, fnriner
rati eandidale for pros'ideiit, M"r- '
n lirien, Pelaney Nlroll and John I
cd f It 'i 'iinlnciil V"W York.
I' wii evld.'in that if ''ie flee. I
o he i.ikcn into the eonrtx the,
ir' of h i Lrlie- ieii- hein'T
in'led for sjch a battle rov.il .if- th"
d Suite: ne it hvt- seen. i
raiorrLAT1 ri.vnt
v iti:s
New York, Nov. 'J. With N w Mex-!(-..,
Mhere I're.iiilenL Wilson is lcndini-',
lell in (lie (loiilitrnl list, tile . leetoral
college hIiowb Wiimm 'J.IV, IIiiKhen SI",
doilhlfiil 17.
low.'
It ' u.mstitnti d as fol-
an offifiil slut, m.'tit the di ino
nation.tl coom It. ilainied
for Tn Ideet ilt-nri and a pop-
plnralitv of from I'eO.oon to O.nnii
Ty i hi re will hi iin.i eonte.st."
ri u i ii f ' ii- n ti. in an inuii to
ml l'i rf ii v Anii'mar, in o-
1 ' M '1111 (her liny 1" foi
full n i its .f known from air.
f ir Sl itf eft in the doubtful
no o i nanny not. uniii tn.-iei
r . r-.ffii Ii. 1 1.. V II I
in d pos- i ly in Mllini sota. As
I lilt i i Ii .ni iriir in MmhrMita
i t V ri. i ia anil a ehuiiKe in
st t iniilil iot alfrrt the n .suit,
nil' in o demand for eMi.iur-
h,i ti lo hrin alimit the ie-
I ill n ,.il. .1
.it t Ic i 1 all the States where 1 lie j
It is eUiip are cirrinl in the lliialu h ;
nil mm lor inai reason llie in oio- I
i proffps to he not apprehensive J
anv vi rturiuiiu eonld ( cune from I
nt
Wil- Douht
Siali mm lliiRhe.s fill
Alabama 12
Arizona :t
Arkaii-ia.s a
alilornla 18
Colorndo ij
Conneetlent 7
Hi law are .".
Vloruln il
ieorj-'in 11
Idal
lllinoK ":i
Ii ! ana l,"i
! ' IS
Kei'Mii' lfl
Keiiiueky IU
I.nuiHiiuia in
Maine C
Marland S
M.issaehnsolts IS
Michigan i:,
M"iiineMota ... 12
Mississippi .... i)
M.t-Hoiiri IS
Montana 1
Nebraska S
NeMida :'
Ni w Hampshire ... ... i
New Jersey 1)
New Mexico ...
New York 1.1
North Carolina 12
North liakola .. 5
Ohii 2t
(Jklahonia 10 ' ... ,.
Orenon fi
riniisylvania ns
Uhode Island 5
South ('aiollint., ;i
South Dakota n
Tennessee 12
Tens L''i
I'lnh 1
Vermont
Virginia 12
Washington .... 7
West Virginia . . S
Wisconsin m
Wyomlnk' Ii
Totals a ZV L7
elaiins. Iionevef, that deinociats will
make Mains on the tlnal returns In six or
spven of the i lose dlsl rlety, whic h ai
p.nently have elected repiibllriins by
small niajoritleF Speaker I'liuk nnd othei
ilemocral ie leaders also i ulitidentlv ex
pect lo cut ilown 'ie republican plurality.
Itoprc.-cntntiw. Woods, i h.iirmnn of the
rcpublh an lommittee, intistcd to-nlKht
Hint the republicans undoubtedly would
control the organization of the Iloue A
sfeaki-r to he elictid tuust icceive .1 ma
jority of tlie House, or 1 Votes. Although
the uiiofle ml icturns show the topubli
c.ins to lie one short of a majority, they
nie counting on the proeressive elected
In .Minnesota, tlie procresslve-i epnhllenn
in Louisiana, and the Independent In
Massachusetts to vote with them for
.lames It. Mitni for speaker.
Prospects ol a republican Kaln were
nppap nl ill the "Slid l'ennsylvanla dis
trict, win re I lie canassof all I'lllshuii;
precincts to-ilny showid llepresentati v
llnrchfelil leadiuir Cuy ('ainphell, his
democrat ie opponent, by 12 votes. On
llie unolllPial ri turns Campbell led llareh
li Id by 10 votes. Count r.v precincts still
an to he canvassed.
Chairman Kltzjri raid of the House np
pti.priat ons connnittee, after iliscifr.sim:
w.lli ailmiiustriiliiiii hudeis to-dnv plan..
I.. i llie iniKrani of the winter session,
sael i Tin-. f would he made to do unity
v ill. tlie usual Christmas recess so that
more btisincs, i.ould he 1 ransact' d.
Middielmry. Nov l.r.. I iiusil I'ipcr. lh
I7-oat-old son of Mr. and Mrs. Williaii
I'iper of Kast Middlebtiry, Is dyiiiK to
night as the result of wounds leeched
this morning when he Htumbled while
deer hunting, tlie rifle he can led dis
charglinr. Tlie hall struck Just below the
left limit and came out through the
shoulilei Thin is the first fatality of the
dei r se.ison.
Yonm. I'iper locrthfi iiilh I'.urlon
Itilliims. II, l.aipie ami Walter I tanner.,
ail a lout the s line nuc went esteida
lo their ihiick on the mount. tin iboiit 12
miles fiom Middleliuri This mornitnz
liiey started o it. tlie 1'ioer hoy heinK in
the leal, fudileiili his compatiions Ileal il
the ilischniite of the Rim and rushed li.nk
to youtiK I'iper, who Knped that he had
shot lilms. it'. I.iii did not know how.
The bojs carried him three in Hen down
the mountain to another shuck, and
while two of the in remained with him ti
third ran to the house of Daniel Di.iKon,
six or seven miles trom this viMiipe. From
tliele. Doctors Martin and l'lentlss worn
.summoned by 'phone and they went to
the shack w here the wounded buy lay.
He was lin.illi taken lo the Dracon home,
whelp he K mil expected to live Ihioiiuli
the iiiKbt ..eiiiuse ot the loss of much
blond, Ii I. emu sev ml hours I if till 111"
lime in was shot till I lie time I he doctors
could ri a Ii hint
SUDDEN DEATH OF
WILLIAM G. GREENE
rs. I
Of I
I si ' 1 1 .ii ii u Vt. 1.'. II., i, Wlll.jm
lireene. . forn assis'ant iud-'e
Frankun co.int.. unirl, dud
early this mornim.' at his home at
Albuns l,,iv He had been in poor health
for some inn''
HUGHES' LEAD IS
CUT IN MINN.
SUFFRAGE LOBBY
WILL BE LARGE
Drops to :!Hj He Gains in New
Mexico Cali'fornia Count
Will Show Gains for
Wilson.
Necessary to elect, HX
I
I IKS IS MI.KNI
rd Hi
'Oil
I la.
I'alifoi ilia hud i n i .ii rn d
7 the face of ne.irl nuii'idc
urns was cartled lo Mr,
hoi'tly before he letired tn.
Ho dei lined to iumment on tlin
-linn i 'nr ill m iiiiiiiii .il iiif- ii I n nn.
il liiiidriual ler.s members of Mr.
' st iff s.1 id that the iitnxstion of
lAiuiu. hiiihu oe tonsiueieii tu-mor-NOTHING
KI.rj.M WU.l.CuX.
Kin Informed i it r'usident Wilson
erirried Calif'. p illiam SI. Will
ed. ilrmnn if It rt .'.ibli'-an national
111 I I ... I IUII
havo nothing lo '
airman Willcox refusetl lo mal.o an5
ESI DENT EXPRESSES
T A 'Pl'Pl IHIi"1 nu 'l'tii,- Arr.'c."i
liain I'i'ii j . t u 1 1 I'rj i
WILSON 276, HUGHES 255
tannin unllkelv chan.es in the
offu I. ii i omit, later returns indicate
th.it il.son has curried New llamp
sliue by a plurality of di and also
Ni Mexii-o, Kivini; him 27 electoral
votes. .Minnesoia and Wi -t Vli'Khiia
appear to have cope fur I lushes, Klv
nitf him 2:".i cleitoral vole
St. I'
of die
ha !nw
to tile
iu!, Minn., Nov. Ui. Willi foriy-six
ciuht-six counties in Mintichota
11 rued m their tabulation sheets
si-'ictaiy of statu and with un
official returns t'loin tin. icmainder, In-1
' luillnu' lb niiipin and KaniM-y counties,
! Mr. f I utiles' pluraliiy was cut down to
. Wsi. The total ,oic was: Wilson 177.7!i.
. llun'ios rx.i,:.
j The oITici il vote, i liecked over at the
1 Capitol tn. il,,. , u,te Wilson i,riv. Hughes
j xt.iOTi, Indlcaimi; a IiIk lead for the re.
I publican candidate outside the Twin
j cities of St. Paul and Minneapolis, not.
I withstandim; the plurality of 1,222 Duluth
j and St. Louis counties envc (lie Prcsi
1 dent
1 Santa IV N. M. Nov. I . OtTleial fig
ures oil till election receiled hv the
I secri'tarv ol state to-das from llerna-
llllo, Tan.-, and Tot ram e lountiis added
4S.'i to IIiiRhes' total and 211! to Pusi
dent Wilson's aiiKrcKale. The vole now
Htalids, Unfiles jO,7.".7 Wilson 1,7'.U1, a
rednctlon of Wil.son's lead from last
nlfjhfH fiKures ol Is' votes. Ileports
trom 20 precincts are yet to come
1KV1TI DIG PARTIES END
CAMPAIGN IN DEDT
New
tioual
c ratio
lib.
.MippnrlcrH He
Them Later.
Will llstt
ushinston, Nn ':. i'ii .-ideiit Wilson
osiitil his Ktatlt ule to tho puoplo of
l ui t for their .upport in the election
ic, laKes bent tn-nmlit In leply to ro
i!4 tli.'it ho viilt that seitlon beforo
ots oporm. He t-.iid he would bo un
to maKC the trip at present beijiuso
t lator If pos'ilblo.
o I'resldent sent tho following tele.
to William 11. ki.'is, successful mn.
to for tliu Vnitcd States Sontito from
i
ho itivlttitli n l" Mai' tho West tuna
ut ni'- Iieart ticiau.se I ftol deeply
cfiil to all Uio West lor tlio splondld
Kencroiif HUtipnrt you have Klven ine,
I would not hrt worthy of their gen-
i cont.deiico If I weio to leave my
at n timn when diillfea of tho most
tail and prcsMtnj sort of r iowd uimiii
I am pronilsim? myself the pleasure
mh a trip If ever 1 can K''t fruo from
toils of exnctitiK duty iind In the mean-
wish to express my deep Kt'utltude,
cc la lion iitnl rctfret.
i iilso pent a messatje to P. !. IJonlliH
II II T.-inimen of iho Denver Post,
ikihK the people of Colorado and has.
tor letters to tiailu McN'abb, ilemo-
ii national eoinmltteemnn nr Califor
nia! rvi r i' "llu r in eio. i. te ti aih rs
hit' SLiti t.xpru.-
;i 11 nrf ibi.'ft fj.minrt
York, Nov. It. The loiiuhlieim na
eouimittee, as well as tho iktmo
mtuiiiBeni, linishod the campaign
with a deficit.
That tho de.mocriitlQ naliontil coinmit
tee was in debt when the voters went to
the polls a wis?U auo was franklv slated
l.y Henry Moruenlhau, i hairman of tlie
linanco committee, sovcial days iikii.
I That tho rcpuhlicnns also were behind
hnaiiclally was roviiilod yes's-rday liy Na
tional Chalrmau Willcox.
.Mr. Willi ox, like Mr. Morj;enlliau, Feem
ed little conrerned oer Ills pail's deficit.
The republlciui chairman Is still mainly
Interested In the olllcial count of the bal
lots in California, Minnesota, New Hamp
shne and other e'ose States. After the
re-election of President Wilson becomes
established lo the satisfaction of tlie re
publican inanaKors p.iunetit of whatever
detielt exists, will he taken up.
Wilbur W. Marsh, treasurer of the dem
ocratic national committee, lias plans for
KetUni: the $il,fi needed to clean up the
bills of that eoininltlee. letters are beimt
rent tn party friends in 2.00) cities and
towns, nskliiK eai h to Kather up tun and
fonvanl It to national headiiuanei-s.
t! I' A I ! I )SM K N I ) J ;.H V. RT I Nt 1.
nemlnr, N. M ,sv. IS. Sixty men
have been iirre.stcd on cliarKeH of de
sertion, It was announceil tn-diiy at
brlCTde hendiiuarlers at Camp Deuilin,-.
Tho inun. It is understood, uro from the
Kltut Piovislonal Infantry P.rlKade.
stationed at Fort liayiird, N. M., iiuii
aro doburtinir because of hardship due
to cold weather. Piovost Kiiarils to
day it wits said luul arrested fifteen
utriiKKlnrn froin the liriKade.
San Francisco, Nov 15. Preiliiition
that the lowest democratic elector Iu
California will run ahead of the highest
ivpubllcaii eli etor was made to-niKlit
by democritu: leaders after watching
the slowly aiiKinentinK returns from
county clerks
"The diffelellce will be ahimt HIM in
favor of the democrats," said Sidney M
Van Wyek, Jr. chairman of the demo
cratic lamp. tlx!! eommittr
RE.MEMI5ERED PROMISE
TO PEED IMMIGRANTS
Next Congrc.-s Will Face a Lot
of Determined Women Who
Will Urge Anthony
Amendment.
San l.'riuiPino. Cal.. Nov. II. The
next Conirres will be beslcKed by the
lnrirest sutTiMKe lobby In hlstnr, ac
cording to speakers at a post-election
1 1 ll 1 1 ' 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 of tile National Woman's
party heic to-dio Victory was pre
dictid for nitiopal siitfrane before
Coliltress adjoin ns
Miss Doris Slew ns of Ni ' York, na
1 1 una 1 cli.tiiman of tile organization de
partment of the co.iKics.siiinal union,
declared tliat the women of the coun
try have "the brains and energy neces
sary to Induce Congress to act favor
ably on the Susan H Anthony amend
ment." "We haio just started to liKlit and we
are remix to f ive Cotiirrcss with a
Kieatly iiicii.ied 'oblix and a bolder
trout," said All Stevens she said
that the Wit .m.il Women - party did
pot lOUSlder il-ell .iclc'ilcil lus'alise ol
tile re-elei turn of President Wilson, hut
rather renin 'Ld the defeat an a victory
Inasmuch .i- 'I f xvomen of the country
liad show ii II" 'r power and are now
banded tonith r In closer l onds."
MISS G. R.WHEELER PRESIDENT
llurltnvtoii Wiiiihiii llemls Witninn'H
Aoxillar.v uf llonril ot Xllssiinis
Oilier Ollleel-s llleed-d.
Haired In violent eomhat both north
ami south of the Somme. In both
regions the lieim.ins made talus In
the northern 'ni'ii"i' ,i'id weslein out
skirts of Hie St. Pierre Vaast wood, '
norlli of tin- lixer, and in tlie eastern
pari of tlie village of Pressolre, south I
of the slle.im.
The l.'reluli olficla; communication 1
in admittintr the loss of this mound j
sa.xs Hie C.ermans obtained only lini-
ited ailvatitiiReK at llii- price of very,
heavy los-ses In the noilh llie lier
tnati attack extended fiotn l,es lloeuls
to Ihe south of I'.oucllIiXesne''. a fionl'
of live inilen, and south of tlie Somme
from Ahlalneoiii t to the Cliaulm s
wood, about throe miles. The attacks,
wore launched after v'olcnt ni'tillci y I
prepiiration. I
I I'-tl in. in icxurtini; to Hie P.rltisli ai- '
tmk wliu Ii aaxe them the town of l-'.enu-cniiit,
is that except at P.eaucourt all
Hie liritish attacks bloke down with
lie,ix e.iMiaii (n.s tin tlie southern biiuk
of tlie Ancle the attack has already he. n
siiaiieied. sny.s lierliu which add- that
Ikhlinjr is iiroceediiiK near .-'allly-Sallltsei
and Piessnire. According to London r.,'
Hermans liaxe been made prisoners on
tlie Anei o f i out Klnce Monday. The
Itiitlsh looses, i onsnierlni; the extent of
the sains, are deilnicil not to have hi en
hlwh.
The Trnnsylvanla fiont, asidu from the
line in France, is furnishing tlie most
saiiKUlnary enmmemeiit. Here almost
ex'ervwheie the Au-tio-llei mans are aln
i 1 iK ground HKnin-t the Uouiuanlans and
ItitFMeiis In the Tlmtijuily, Alt anil .Mill
valleys llie Teutonic nllles hive forced
their ant.ioinsls "ti!' 'uitlier luick. In
the Dnbriidia rcKimi Huchaiept lepni ti
the oci ui ali. a h the P.oiimauiaus of the
town of li ,isf . on lie- Dui- e.
The royal pahiee in I!uehare.si tins been
bombed by Ti tiionic allied aitcrnri. The
(Jueen ami the royal prlncense weie not
in Ihe huildiii". at the time.
Herlin adinlts that on the Crna tiver
liend In Seibin llu entente allies luive
captured some heltihls, aiel that In th
vail') Ihe Teu'onie nllbd line bus been
stiddnlv I ornwn nack in onn r to prevent pressor.-
i;T. on mi namxs.
Ill Ualieiu, nccordlm; lo Ihe I'etroKiail
war oltlcc the Husslans have driven
Austro-( liriiiniw fiom trnier Itusslan
t rem. lies in tin Nalayuxal.il river lenion.
I Pet tin a.- ."i ts. however, that atlacks by
tin liii'.-ians in tills vicinity were u-
plllSed
Kasl of 'lorizui the Austrians lix a
I in avy liombardiiK tit have eompelb d Hie
! Halians in fc-ixe up some of their trenches.
(In the Carso trout the Italians have ad
vanced at several points.
Kiillriuiils Wain ti, Kim,, Whetlier V.
llioir Men-lire Is ( imsl II nt lotinl anil
If .so XA hill It .xientin.
FOOD (iOKS I P IN HNriDAND.
Dandon, Nov. r. The leiail prices of
tooilstuff-1 cunipai'ed Willi a inr aiii. have
increased on an axer.-iKe ... 27 per c nl ,.
says the . purl nf tie- board ol trad..
They have incrca-id 7' pi r cent oer
prn.es I i lore llu war Tlie pri'-i s of
aUKar. on;.-. Iisli and point oes, hnxv ever,
ar- more tiuiu double tin pre-war prices
London. Nov. ir. The iippointinent
of a food cniitt oiler bv the British jrnv
eininent was foreenst to-dav bv Walter
Itiilieinian. president of thi ho.ir I of
trade, In atinniineliiK in the House of
Cominoim that wider powers will be
conferred on the Itrltisb KoverniiK nt liy
an older In council dealing with the
food iiieitlon. Mr. Itiinelmiiii's spepph
had siKii'lhaiice. aside from Its actual
context, .is showiiiM; that the Kovern
metit Is InoliiiiK forward to protracted
hostilities ati-l foresees tile nec salty of
tluielv nieastii-ps for insiirlim the na
tiona! food supply by an effective or
ir.iiiiz.ition of natinnnl resources in a
similar manner to that adopted in en
emy countries. lie vvns oiilv able to
xnress the s-nre an. I certain hope that
however traitic it mlBlit be, the strnin
watt still more rie vi re in Germany and
Austria.
Dealing with the wheat iiuestioii, Mr.
Uiinclman said that Hie Kovernment
luul taken full udvatitiiKe of the abun
dant hnrvoHts of Cnnadti and Australia,
wlileli had lieen aliBmetiteil by an
emu moils production in the I'niteil
States but that next year the country
I would have to depend to a larfre extent
I on Australia A i ranit' iio-nts with Aus
I trtili.i. he nd.led. were rather a Miies-
Hon of stimulating not production but
! transport
j Aliead.x ;i larse block of toniiaKc has
I been le iuiHitioned and was on Its way to
Australia. Mr Kunelman continued. The
i transport ditliculty had hcon enhanced by
I tlie need of coming to tlie .-issistiince of
I France and Italy, but the government hnd
I taken tin- right step in regarding that the
j whole of the entente allied wheat ship
! meat should be dealt with bv one reo.ulsl
! tinned Meet He emphasized the impor
i t.inee of transput t and the absolute neees
sit of shipping being legnrded ns serving
'tlie national Inieiesis when it was con
veying food lo the kingdom.
. Mr. Uiinciman also lelprreil lo Pie eon
, Htant dill)cultv nnd lillxiet.v of satisfying
iu this respect Ihe conllii Hug mtoiests
of Hie naval and the merchant service,
i especially considering the fact that Hreat
Hritain was called on to provide not only
for its own needs but those of her allies.
Mr, llunciniaii announced the im
minent appointment of a food controller
with full power over all departmentt;
coiicernod m food supplies, and im
mediate measures to restrict tile
,luxtiilous usi of sugar, to prevent
waste and Hie making of lnrgo profits
i on potatoes ami milk, anil to forbid
the milling of pine white flour, lie
said also that Hie government would
ask new powers under tlie defense of
' the realm net to deal with all attempts
lo exploit public necessities.
These measures. Mr P.unciinan ex
nlaineil, would be temporary, but if
ilu-v were found insufficient it might
become necessary to have recourse to
food tickets.
Tho speech of the
hoard of trade was
paits of the House
son, on I
licorgr J
Washington, Nov. lS.-Siiitn by railroads
attacking the i oiiHlltutlonallt.x of the eight
hour railroad law were begun to-d.iy n
many parts of the country and the depart
ment of justice laid plans to defend tin n
Tlie department Is planning to onP -t
em h suit as it comes up for hearing
Assistant Attnrnnx-fleneral I'nde
wood will luive direel charge of Hie gov
liniment's defens" and Frank I l.igei -nai
of Kansas City, Mo , has been retained lo
assist him.
Attorney-Ueneial Oregory and Sola iter
fioneral Davis hav o been in eonfererir"
with Mr. Underwood frequently since e
first suits were lil-d and the general lino
of defense hnve bee,, laid. .Information
teaching tlie depniiment shows that the
tnilroiiilH base their prayers for temper
ur restraining ordeis against Ihe law In
coming effective on Hie ground that it I
iineimtitiluilohnl und incapable of enforce
ment.
Prompt and final decision lis th
BUpfenic court of the constitutlon-il i
of tho l,i xv j possible under fei'ei 1
court prai tiee. it was stated to-dai I
lawyms familiar with federal pr
eedurc. Prider arcepted practice t
was explained, in any of the dial rut
courts where test suits are btought
the distilct judge might call in onn
or two district or ciicuit judges to sit
with him in the case. After a decision
bv such a court, it was stated that, as
the constitutionality of an act of Con
gress is drawn in uuestlon. an appeal
could be taken direct to the supremo
court without delay for its considera
tion liy a circuit court of app. als.
Should a tout case or pases be ap-pcali-d
to Uio supreme court it iv,-1
believed hero that despite congest'. in
of important cases on its docket n e
couit would advance the Adamson ut
proceedings for early heating and de
cision. The statement of Samuel 'iompers
that tlie law would go into effect "in
junction or no Injunction" and the
statement of w. S. Cu ter. head of
the locomotive firemen and ingine
men, denying that a strike had hfxc.n
threatened If Uie law- were not en
forced, has attracted attention among
federal officials.
president of tho
welcomed in all
Sir IMvvnrd Car-
h.Uf of the opposition and
W.mlle. tin- the laborites.
agiecd that tlie llou-e was ready to
giant the power asked without tho
toiinahty 'of a hill.
HAPPENINGS IN VT.;
NEWS BY COUNTIES
New' YoiK, Nov. it Tvvcnlv Mini's ago
Max Ciootsclint'ider with his wife and baby
girl nrnved in New Yml. penniless fiom
Volno, i;iissl-. lie egged help liom a
eh, il liable oig.iui.alion and was given a
Job as a fin il.vcr. In i el urn lie made a
vow Hint when Ins daughter ilioiild be
man bil. all nun who weic hungr.x as lie
was then should lie fed
The immigrant necaine a prnspeious lur
denier ami yesterday announced the com
ing maiiluiie nf Ids daughter tn a dia
mond merchant lie drove to the Hebrew
society's heiidiiuai ters iu Ids llinnutdii!
and explained that In. was ready to keep
the xovv he made a score of years ago.
"How manv Immigrants have you heio
now?" lie asked, lie was told about 2rn
"Not enough." he declared, "(lo out
Into (lie neighborhood. I want to feed any
number up to l,Oo, perhaps morn If you
can gi t tlieni "
Xeari l,ij were fed at his expense be
tween p.iifl i. in., and midnight
.'!. VESSELS SUNK
WITHOUT WARNING
'iooii iiilv, rtlMi'ir Is good servlre sim
in 1 1 v ir, lt tlie work of ti,c buyer for Iho
iua uf.iiuiuiuni I iiunit', and making t nut woiU interest
Jluj because prulitabk.-.
London. Nov 13, Thirty-thiee visil
have been sunk without warning by sub
III. nines front May ."i lo November a
I'Miui - io an aimiii.inv .nuonriiiiti.il
tluu .u. a iv.-iiut of Uo
Juat.
iu III' ii add;
Uvea xvuru Ji
Moiitpelier. Nov. 15. The Woman's
Auxiliary oi He board of missions of the
i;iiisconil Cliiinh. which Is holding its
annual mniini' m Clnlst Church, this
city, eleetid . iliccra to-day as lollows:
Pri ibleiit. Mi.-s Constance ( Wheeler
of lint Imglon, leciiidiiig secretary, Mrs.
I1'. N. Whitney of Northtleld; con esponil
ing secretin y. Mrs Alice Y Uliss of Hur.
Iliigton; treiisurcr. Miss Alice tj. Sheldon
of lliirlltigton Tlie latter was given a
vole of thanks lor her work the past
xear Mr.' W. I'' .'nnes of Woodstock
was elected general secretary of tho
junior auxiliary woilt and Hisliop Hull,
who is ptesiding, appointed Mrs. Joseph
Stearns of lluiluigton si rretary ol tlie
i'eiiodical lub.
Miss Ogllell repolted Ihe growlll of
Hisliop Hopkins Hall, tin- school loontiil
at Huilliiglon. tlietv now In Ing S2
students
Ill'flllKS TO TAKK VACATION
New- York, Nov- IS.-Charlos K. Hughes,
nhlleaii candidate fur Hie preslileiny,
will leave lieic Saturday Willi his family
for I.iikow-ood, N. .1.. vvlieie lm w lit rest
several weeks. It was announced tn-nighi.
William Ii Willeox. chairman of the re
publican national i-onimlttee, will nceniii
iiny Mr. Hun'108 '" l-nkewood Mr.
v lilt-ox liowover, hiild ho would --keep
n touch" willi republican headiiuai lets
i.ie b.v visiting Oio eitv n'Veial days a
eek
Miihl.lF. KU-IOTT SMAWKDI, DIJAD.
ishlngt"". Nov ,:i,l"li Sea.
, i" mihor of widely read historical ro.
' . ,,,ui lurica for boys, Uitd hum to-
day, aKvil
MIDDLEIJURY.
Almut nine o'eliu k Fr.day night a fire
was diiicoverid oi 1 ihee ot the Hotel
Logan, Mis. J. II 1. tints. Hie laudlail.v,
seeing it (I in l from a window looking into
the back yald of the house Tin ie was
notuxly iu Ihe otllce when the tile was
discDviuriil and only a few people in the
house. Mrs. Hum.- soon aroused those
In their rntuns and tlie men, xvlth the
assiutanco of Jeny Tnido and Frank
Shackott, who saw the blaze from Main
street nnd ruslied in to help, soon got the
fire out, taking the burning counter out
on to the lawn. There is no certainty as
to how the lire caught. It was handled
without the necessity of summoning the
flro department. Some of the wall and
ceiling In the olllce was badly scorcln d
and considerable damage was done by
smoke in llie rooms in the upper stories.
II Is not thought Hint the whole damage
will exceed 2i0 Tliele was a high wind
blowing at the time and luul the lire
occulted a collide of hours lali r theie Is
little iloiiht Iml that the whole building
would have gone up in dames
'llie Mlddlcbiiry Urange is milking sev
i ra I unpin taut ihanges in their hall in
tills village. A large dining hall has
been litted up ill tin- liasrnieiil of the
building, which will seat about peo
ple, nnd the stairway has been rebuilt
lm as lo give better nceonunodatious. Aj
cement llnor has also been put ill nnd
Ol 111 I minor luipruveoii'oi.- un' uuw iiinni
way. Miss Jciiule Loxvell, who lias been
visiting at tho home of her uncle, John
Lowell, has returned to Piovldence, II. 1.
She was called hnnie on account of the
Illness of her father. Miss Hlizabeth
Wreiin, who lias been visiting at the home
of her slstei, .Mis. J A Morgan, has
gone lo llostmi i spend a week, alter
which .-lie will go io New York city to
Join her mother. Mis- It. F. Wrenn, and
pun d io their home in Silver City,
N. (.!. Mis M T. lirlstol, who has In en
visiting her daughters, the Misses Ada
und Jciiule Itiistol, for a few weeks, Iiiih
I cl limed to Vet gennes. Otis liddy, who
has sput a month in town xvitli his
brother. Dr. M. II. llddy, has returned
to South lvondouderry. Mrs. Kiln lirown
Unllcy, Mrs. U. S. llllss, Mis. Frank
llr.vant and Misa l.'dlth lllatichnril, who
have been guests of Prof, and Mrs. I.. M.
Ilathawny lor a few days, have n turned
to .Moiitpelier Walter .1. Hose, xvho has
been III a serious condition lor several
weeks at Ins home on 1'iankllii street,
does not impiove and m cms to be losing
giound M J. Cioiilii mid Thomas Jlau-
Icy lLlurncd Saturday from UuUvrUllJ.J
I where, on the previous evening. Mr
I Cronln took a prominent part in an en
itertainment given for Uio benefit of the
I Catholic Church them-Miss Jennie
i Ilmgey of West Cornwall, xvho is engaged
I in teaching school, is iu town to spend
u few days with Miss Rebecca Mcilold
lirk Mr. and Mis. c.corge Ilradshaw,
Mi.-s Lisle Parker and Miss Sadie Ross
of Manchester, N H., and Henry 1
Mnthi'Vs of St. .Tohnsbury are visiting In
tow n Thorough icnairs are being made
ion some portions ot the Henry I.. Shel
'dnii building on Park street, which Is
now genei ally known as the Sheldon Art
Museum. Lrnest C. Pierce of Burlington,
who lias been In Middlebtiry and vicin
ity for several days, xvent Rotunlay to
Pittsford witli tho expectation of being
absent for a eonsldcrablo length
of time - The eomedv, "Ifcuhly-Txmg-l.egs."
will he presented iu this
village by Miss Marion Clarke on
Thursday evening, November 3, under
Hie auspices of the Missionary association
ol the Congregational Cliurih. William
Farrell, Jr., has returned from ningham
ton, N. Y . wheto he has been for a tew
day-.- 1.'. M -!iiunders is in New York city.
Mis .Ml. liaei Hatpin hiw re
tained Hum Itridgeport, Conn.,
i when- she lias been X'lsitlng her
daughter- She bus rented Uie llllun
Sullivan house on College street and will
spend tlie winter tin re. The committee
of the churches interested In the fed
orated fair held a meeting at Uie home
of Mrs. Frank A. l-'ariisw orth Saturday
afternoon
The liev William II Dean, a retired
Methodist preacher, who was Just going
to lied Sunday evening turned to come
li.uk dow nstaii s and in so doing lie fell
seveiiil steps. It is featisl he haw brok
en Ins right leg. Dr. K. II. Marvin was
summoneil, but It is not vet certain
whether the leg Is broken. Mr. Dean is
vl je.irs of age. and 111 years ago he lunke
the same leg below- tlie knee.- A recep
tion was given Tuesday night at eight
o'cliK-k at the homo of Mrs L. K. lllch
on Seminary stteet In honor of the Itev.
W. T I'orsytlie, a former rector of SL
Stephen's F.plscopa! Cliuich of this vil
lage. Mr. Forsytho left Mlddlobury over
eight years ago and Is now located at
Southwest Harbor, Me. Tlie auction of
Morgan stock at the government
farm In Weybridgo was held Monday. It
was a bad day for an auction and the
parties wanting to buy were not x-ery
nuincroUH, The whole IS he.nl offered wero
purchased at prices running from U0 to
f.v, a head.-. Mr. and Mrs. Charles M.
Fouti' of Wnlllngfnrd are visiting tela
tlvc In Middlehiiry and Cornwall. Tho
New York. Xov. 15. Suits tiled by rail
roads against the federal gox-ernment to
test the constitutionality of the Adamson
eight-hour law also are expected to re
sult in the interpretation of the statute
ii' il be upheld, the railroad managers
e.'iinn isiug uie nuiionai conterence com
mittee ol railways announceil in a state
ment issued here to-lllglll.
Suits designed to test the validity of
the law and to n strain the government
fn m putting it into eit'ect wen tiled In
this city to-day b.v the Xexv York Cen
tral and Lrie railroads.
Similar suits are to he brought with
in tin- next tew days by each railroad In
the countiy in each of the federal dis
tricts it traverse, according to llll.nha
Lee, chairman of Uie conference com
mittee. Mr. Lee ifsued a statement at
the end of the committee's three-Jay
si eret session, explaining the railroad a
program in their light against the lau
The statement follows:
"Two (luestioii.s are inx'olved in the. ;ip
pt.il by the railroads to tho courts for
light on the Adamson law:
"1. Is the law constitutional?
"2. If it is constitutional, what loen It
mean"
"i '1 ' n i inns have been expressed by
imment authorities Uiat tho law is un
i 'institutional, and there are conflicting
opinions as to how tho law, If constim
iional, should be applied.
'Therefore, the railroads must as a
matter of duty imk Uie courts If tho law
is within the power of Congress, It is
a duty they owe, not alone to tho owners
of these properties, but also tho public
that pnix-ides the revenues for tho iniy
ment of wages.
"If the law is doehirod constitutional,
it Is exjtec-ted that the courts will mala
clear Its meaning, and Uie railroads, it in
umicKwsary say, will faithfully follow
the Instructions of the courts."
vCuutluucU uu iinuc tvro.
NO LAPSE IN SERVICE
OF PRESIDENT WILSON
Will He .-mini In Miiulii, March t,
Sreretitrj I.uiinIuk Say.
"Washington, Nov. l.i. There xvtll h
no lapse in tho service of President
Wllmin tnicauso of the fact that Man Ii
4 next, inauguration day, falls on Sun
day, according to an opinion reached at
tho state department. It lecani
known to-day that on aecoimt of re
ports that a lapse would occur and
that Sivretary 1uislng would bo act
ing president on March 4. a form letter
explaining the law has In-on prepared
at tho state department to bo sent out
In answer tn inquiries on the question,
Whllo it Is not expected that the formal
inauguration of Mr. Wilson will be
held until Monday. March ... he will
to ailvisod by Secretary Lam-lag to
take the oath of of flro on Sunday.
If CharloM K. Hughes concedes tho
re-oleeUon of President Wilson by next
Friday, Vance C. MrCortnlck. clmlrm.in
of Uio democratic national committee,
probably will discuss plans for the
President's inauguration with loe.ul
democratic leaders whem he conies to
Washington that day. Usually thi
chairman of the Inaugural committee
xv hlch has chargo of the parado and
other civic ceremonies is selected soon
after the election. It Is taken for
granted by officials that the President
following out his plans of I'.Uti, xvtll
have no inaugural hall.
LOVE.IOY TOOL CO.
Nciv Siirliiglleld Concern lias SI.Ml.oea
Capital.
Moiitpelier, Nov. 1.1. Articles of associa
tion were tiled tiwluy xvith tho secretary
of state by tho I.oi'ojoy Tool Co., Inc.
of Sprlngllelil, having capital slock of
Il."i0,0im, The Incorporators aro Janieti
lliirtncss, Friil P l.ovejoy, Chnrlis N,
.Saffonl, Ralph E. I-Tanders and lllUm
ii. Bcujdalcy, ull oi SpriajjUcId.
