VOL. XXVIII. .MANNING, S. C., WEDNESDAY, NOV. 16, 1916._ NO. 4
GREAT BRITAIN REFUSES
TO RAISE BLACKLIST
ON AMERICAN GOODS
Washington, Nov. 14.-The British
reply to the latest American note,
protesting against the trade black
list, made public tonight by the State
Department, denies that rights of
neutral traders under international
law have been. ruthlessly cancelled,
defines the blacklist measure as a
municipal regulation plainly coicern
ing only the British Government and
British citizens and contends that it
is designed to .shorten the war.
The note failed to meet the Amer
ican demand that the names of Amer
ican firms be stricken from the black
list, but attempts to convince the
State Department that the British
position is just and founded on law.
It leaves open the door for further
negotiations, which is expected to fol
low.
The note was subscribed by Vis
count Grey, the British. foreign min
ister, and was addressed to and
transmitted by Walter Hines Page,
the American ambassador at London.
A part which attracted much offi
cial notice dealt with the subject of
peace, based on the theory that one
American contention had been that
there exists no military necessity for
the blcaklist, that is necessary for
the Allies to prejudice neutral com
merce and that nothing wvhich hap
pens in distant neutral countries can
influence the result of the great con
flict.
"Long and Bitter Struggle."
"If that really were the position,"
says the note, "it is possible that the
measures taken by his Majesty's Gov
ernment might be describe:i as un
called for, but -it is not. We may
well wish that it were so. Even
though the military situation of the
Allies has greatly improved, there is
still a long and bitter struggle - in
front of them, and one which in jus
tice to the principles for which they
are fighting imposes upon them the
duty of emp!oying every opportunity
and every measure which they can
legitimately use to overcome their op
ponents.
"One observation which is very
commonly heard is that certain bel
ligerent acts, even though lawful, are
too petty to have any influence in a
-struggle of such nagnitude. It is, I
know, diflicult for those who have no
immediate contact with war to rea
lize -with what painful anxiety men
and women in this country must re
gard even the smallest acts which
tend to increase, if only by a hair's
breadth, the danger in which their
relatives and friends daily stand, or
to prolong, if only by a minute, the
period (luring which they are to be
exnosed to such perils.
"Whatever inconven iences may be
caused to neutral natibns by the ex
ercise of belligerent rights it is not
to be compared for an instant to the
stffering and loss occasioned to man
kind by the prolongation of the war
even for a week."
Furthered Germiany's Cause.
Inl its argument the note ptoints ort
that G'erman b)as1iness houses.
throughout the wvorbd have further..
e-l thle cause of* Germany in the war,
and have been1 active agents "'for the
dlisseintion~i of German po'litical
anad social influenlce and' for the pu r
"lIn some cases5," (onatinued the
note, they ha~ve even1 been used( as
bases ot supp~ly for German eruisers,
and in othe lciCases'orgaizer/Cis an-11
pa111ymneterst of m1is(eeants PrO)loyed
to dlestroy b~y touil means factories
engagedi in amaking, or ships enigage'i
in carryinat supp~llies requiredl by the
Allies. Sach onerat ions hav'e been
carrie I (out in the territory even of
the Unit el Sttes it self, an I I am'
bound to obser'ive, what I (10 not
think will he denied, that no adle
(uate action has yet been taken by
the government of the Unaited States
to suppress breachies of neutrality of
this particularly ciial kind, wvhiich
I know that they are thle lirst to dis
countenanand de0 ((plore.
"Inl the face (of e'nemy activities of
this nature it was essential for His
Majesty's government to takesteps
'that shouldi at least deprive interests
so strongly hostile of the facilities
and advantages of runrestrictedl tradl
*Ing with British subje'cts. The pub
llo opinion of this country would not
*have tolerated the prolongation of
~ he war by the continued liberty of
Mtish subjects to trade wvith andl so
. (Coitinued on Page Five.)
M ETHODIST-EPISCOPA L
ANNUAL SESSION
Upper Half of State is Embraced by
This Second Conference of Meth
odist-Episcopal Church.
Greenville, Nov. 14.-The second
annual session of the upper South
Carolina conference of the Methodist
church, South will begin its meet
ing with the Bumcombe Street
Methodist church in this city on
Wednesday morning, at 9:30 o'clock,
with Bishop W. A. Candler, of At
lanta, presiding. Some advance meet
ings, to plan business for the confer
ence, will be held Tuesday morning.
and the meeting of the Historical so
ciety will probably be held Tuesday
night; previous to the opening of the
conference proper.
The meeting of the conference is
always a- matter of intense interest
to the Methodists of the state, and
especially the Methodists of the ter
ritory over which the conference has
authority. Among the important
business events of the conference is
the appointment of the ministers for
the succeeding year. These appoint
ments are generally made by the
Bishop on the morning of the last
(lay of the conference.
The upper South Carolina confer
ence was formed three years ago,
when at the state conference in
Sumter, South Carolina was divided
into two conferences. The first meet
ing of the upper conference was hel:l
last year in Spartanburg. Rev. P.
B. Wells, presiding elder of the Rock
Hill district, was elected secretary.
Half of Palmetto State.
The upper conference embraces
practically the entire upper half of
South Carolina, divided into six dis
tricts, whose presiding elders are as
follows:
Anderson district, Rev. T. C.
O'Dell.
Cokesbury district, Rev. W. L. Her
bert.
Columbia district, Rev. M. L. Car
lisle.
Rock Hill district, Rev. P. B. Wells.
Spartanburg district, Rev. R. E.
Stackhouse.
Every Methodist minister in the
conference territory is a member of
the conference. There are also lay
:elegates from the various churches,
and many visitors.
The Methodist E;scopal church
does not permit it pastor or a pre
siding elder to remain at one chur.hi
longer than four years, and under
this provision, tnere will be a number
of important changes in the appoint
ments to be made this year.
Vacancies.
Rev. .J. W. Speak has served four
years as pastor of St. Johns, at An
derson, and will be replaced by an
other preacher. Other ministers who
have served four years at the pres
ent positions, and who will have to
he sent to some other assignment
are:
Rev. S. T. Blackman, Ionen
Path; Rev. J. M. Fridy, Whitmire;
Rev. J. E. Mahaffey, iHaesburg, Rev.
bia; Rev. L.. I). Gillespie, Shandon,
(Columibma; Rev. J1. I). I lol ieri, Fasey
'Rev. TP. WV. Ifunnerlyn, Gray Cout
G;reenville ; Rev. 0. M. A bney, Pied
muont ; Rev. H1. B. 1Ilardy, 11ickory
Grove; Rev. E. T. H otlges, Lancaster;
Rev. Wv. s. Go;(odwin, Ric'hburIg, Rev.
J1. II. Tlraywvick, Winnsboro- Rev.
H enry Stokes, Yorkville; Rev. J1. WV.
ShellI, Limestone, St. GatYney; Rev.
A. N. Brunson, lHethel, Sp~artanburg;
Rev. WV. I". Gault, St. Un~ion.
At the first meeting of' the t'pp''r
con ference HIistorical soc('iety, h"1ld
withI the conference at Spa rtanburig
last yea r, Rev. I). Di. WalIlace, of
Wolford c'ollege., wais selected as
spea ker be fore t he society for 191 0.
Rev. M. L. C'arl isle, ot1 Greenville, was
electedl president; Dr. J1. L. St okes,
oft Walihalla, Iirst, vi'e piresidenit; Rev'.
.1- H. Tr'aywick, WX'innisboro, second
vice president; Rev. A. F. D~riggers,
A iken, secretary and treansurer; Dr.
I). D). Wallac~e, Spartanburg, cura
tor'. The Historical society will
probably meet here Tuesdlay night.
A notewvorthy feature of the cot.
ference is the memorial session,
which will most likely be held Sun
(lay afternoon. At this session mem..
oirs are read and tributes p~aid to the
memory of preachers who have (lied
(luring the year.
The South Carolina conforence,
which nowv embraces the lowver half
of the state, will meet at Florence
two weeks after the upper conferepce
here.
CIARENDON COUNTY FAIR ASSOCIATION
OP[NS ITS DOORS FOR SECOND EXIlBIT
Building is Crowded With All Kinds of Exhibits from
Every Section of the County-Poultry and Live
Stock Departments Filled Beyond Expectations and
Judges Will Have Many Close Decisions to Make.
The second meeting of the Clarendon County Fair As
sociation threw open its doors to the world this morning.
This organization while in its infancy, and only entering
into the second year of its birth stands today second to
none in South Carolina. At this fair you will see ex
hibits that equal the State Fair in Columbia. It is hard
to explain the different things that are made in our own
county and that are found on exhibit at this great fair.
However we will do our best to give a bird's eye descrip
tion of what we have. This morning at 9 o'clock the fair
opened in all its glory to the strains of the Reynold's Car
nival band. The doors of the fair building seemed to
sway to and fro with a hearty "I welcome you to our
fair." On entering the building to the left we find first
on the right aisle the Girls Club Work, organized by Miss
Katherine Richardson. Under this head Miss Richard
son has.eight demonstration clubs. All these booths are
filled with hand made and home grown things, gotten
up by their respective club:, consisting of cakes, pies
fruits, vegetables, bread, pickles fancy work, in fact,
everything pretty and dainty as the feminine hands can
make them.
The first club is Sardinia presided over by Mrs. T. M.
McCutcheon.
The second is Jordan, presided over by Mrs Cousar.
The third is Turbeville p:'esided over by Irs. Dan
Turbeville.
The fourth is Harvin, pr 2sided over by Mrs. J. B.
Brogden.
The fifth is Suimerton, presided over by Mrs. Redford
Brown.
The sixth is DuRant, pre:-ided over by Mrs. Marcus
Plowden.
The seventh Deep Creek, presided over by Miss May
Holliday.
The eighth Lesesne's Chapel, presided over by Mrs.
MCD. McFaddin.
In all there are 201 members of these clubs and their
success is clue to the hearty co-operation of Miss Rich
ardson to club members, and club members to Miss Rich
ardson. A visit to these booths would make a man stop
and Wonder and to himself he would ask the question
"How can they do it?"
The next is the county school booth, where all the dif
ferent schools will have thear exhibits.
In the rear of the building is the poultry exhibits, pre
sided over by Rev. L. B. McCord, assisted by Messrs. Wal
lace Plowden and John DuRnt, all experts on the feath
ery tril,,. This alone is worch a trip to the fair. Here
you will find chickens geese, ducks, guineas, turkeys, etc.
These birds are all in fine s~eel cages something you do
not find at county fairs, in fact, not at the State fair, and
are all extra fine birds.
We now go out in the back where the horses, cows
and hogs are displayed. Here you can spend a dlay look
mg at our home raised products. The cows awl horses
are fine, but to our eye the hog-pork takes the cake.
As fine blooded pigs andl grown hogs are found ..'e as
are anyd(here in the world. TheyN range fro~m a few
nmonths old to hogs that weigh (600 and t00 p)oundsl. I>
sure anid see this exhibit.
We go back into thme main bu11ildlinig and start from the
rear' and go up~ to the front again. First we findl t.he booth
where the baby show will he hel, as soon as this is uvs
it will be thrown i nto) an art gallerv.
The next is the flower booth. .Nowa here is where the
ladies will stand and with amazement look at the beai
iful flowers the other lady raisedi and wonder why she
can't do it too).
Fanecy work is next. While this class of wm-~k ca! n.
more especially to ladlies, the men also like to s1K it,
(d0 1n0 more than buy some of' the da inty stuil' to takv
home to wi fe-e. Th is booth is beautiful andl the lat.is .
serve muitch cred it for getting up this eye d etsro inw dig..
Domestic Fabrics. is next. This is a gre'at xhbtand
one that is mnterasting and educational.
Now this is theQ part that should take the bovs eye, the
corn club. Look at this and never give the west' a thought
again about their corn, but make it at honm
Home conveniences come next. This exhibit attra(Ks
the attention of the old and young, and one that de(serves
much credit.
The in'iividual farm exhibit biy Mr~s. J. M. Le4e is next
and n this booth will be found the many things that can
be raised( on the farm and any information wanted M\rs.
Lee will gladly give it.
The Priscilla Club andl Barrow school are next. This
(ouble booth is very attractive and adds much to the
beauty of the fair' building.
Relics and curios booth is unique and many valuable
and curious things are found here.
The household department is where everyodyn ouldt
WANTs CLISMSON AS
OFFICERS SCIHOOL
President W. M. Riggs Would Have
Reserve Corps Unit.
w\ashington, Nov. 1:3.-President
N. M. Riggs of Clemson college, who
s in Washington, believes the stu
!ents of Clemson have an excellent
ipportanity of becoming members (,f
he reserve oflicers' training; cor, ,
0nW being considered by fe.deral au
:horities here.
''Clemson college wouldl have
.verything to gain and n'othing to
ose by entering the senior division
fof the reserve officers' training
-orps," President Riggs sa id. "Al
.'eadV every student is required to
take three hours of military work
ner week during his entire course in
college.
"Under the rules governing the re
serve oflicers' training corps fresh
men and sophomores would still take,
as now, three hours of military in
truction but it would be of a more
varied and interesting. character.
Without assuming any adhlitional ob
ligation whatever, they would receive
from the government one olive drab
uniform, to be use(l at (rill, thus re
duc " the expense of gray and blue
uin.. ..cm outfits, and although not
required, would have the privilege of
attending during their vacations at
the expense of the war department
the four weeks' summer encamp
ments, such as were held last sum.
mer -at Ilattsburg, N. Y., and else
where.
"At the en-I of the first two years
-:ny cadet regarded as fit for further
training by the college president and
the army officer at the college could
decide for himself whether or not to
take the advanced course for the jun
ior and senior years. If he decided
a take it he would have to pu in
two hours of military study in ad
dition to the three hours of drills now
rerquired. For these two additional
hours of work he would assume the
following obligations and in return
would have certain compensations
nd opportunities. HIis obligations
would be as follow;:
"1. To carry out the prescribed
military cot'rse of five hours per
week, to completion.
"''2. To Pit in during vacations two
four week caimp periods tinier fe:l
(ral supervision.
" T To b),_. morally hounI- upon
jraduationt to enlist in the reserve
o.licers' corps for ten years, to serve
in tin:e of wiar, and be subject to 15
iays' duty each year of his enlist
ient, if' so) reqluired by the secretary
of war.
"II is comip(nsat ion per session
woali Ie as follows:
(c'ontinlued onl Pa''-, F our.)
g~o through well, as somne dla
You never get too Old to leas
In the etnter of this huil
display. First is the 5-1O-:
kinlds of faney nl(ovelt i.e5, ('ft.
NOW boyvs here's where~ yQ ou
to a pre&.tty gill ad( t heln bu)
homei1( mlade stuff for' their s
at isi thfeir rtupative i
Then in the' mJiddh.~ of thi
hI !(Mies of the IPresbyter
at wi Vh the ladiecs foir in si
\ lir. J. lR.Cartec n
- 'Xibit idl) lsIs of [I8el
ati~'S a. )iide in his w\orK li
mant V.il ghiilly give~ it.
Mir. ( . A. \Ilei addinl, whoi
dielmonst l'al ioll work, is also
orF anyVone elIst des'irin1g to 1
Aeros- t he strle(et is the n
inl tis conInectionl w\e will sa
ameUC here highly recoflmmen1
wil give them (due con1si(den
make this a great Occasion a
che or'iginattor' of this great
with pride andl say, "wvell d<
reater things than we exp
?rossed the great heyond1 y<
&he history of Clarecndon C(
nlOnUmfent yoll e'ceul.
MILLS AT AND[RSON
HAVE RESUMED WORK;
EVERYTHING QUIET
Anderson, Nov. 1 .--The EItinox
mill resumed operation this morning,
after a suspension continuing since
Augtst 31, with live companies of
the ('oast artilery cam opca in the mill
yard and one: company constant ly on
uard duty. The only jarring note
cate from the machinery as it went
to work after a six weeks' layoff. A
erowd collected to jeer at the em
plOyes retturning to work as they en
tered the grounds of the plant but
there was no attempt at violence.
The hoots, jeers and cries of "scab"
were more vehemently uttere:l by the
women, the female of the species
coming to the support of Kipling in
proving more deadly than the male,
vocally at least.
A pproximately 50 employes went
to work when the mill started this
morning and 20 more were busy when
it closed this evening. The mill au
thorities expect to have 100 at work
tomorrow morning. Only the card
ing and spinning departments were
in operation today on account of the
reduced number of emp!oyes avail
able. The complement of the mill is
300 andl more than 500 are employed
when the night and day shift man the
mill at its full capacity.
The work of serving the writs of
ejectment proceeded today, the mag
istrate's constables performing the
duty without assistance from the
militia. Three writs were served
without incilent, the occupants of the
houses looking on as the constables
moved their household eflects into the
street. A fourth writ will be served
tomorrow morning. The house is lo
cated some 50 yards from a public
road and as the law rfc4uires that the
household goods be placed in the pub
lie street it will be necessary to se
cure conveyances to haul the furni
ture to the road.
Additional writs of ejectment were
issued by Magistrate Cox today. The
work of serving these will begin at
the Glick mill tomorrow. It is un
derstoo.I that some of the strikers
have alrealy vacated the houses and
n3 trouble is anticipated in success
fully serving these. The cases are
beil heard by the magistrate at the
rate of two each day, but none will
he h .ar-l tom orrow, the next cases
biein;, sehe:luled for 'ednesday.
Private William Ne!son of the
Fouarth compmny, Jonesv ille, utnd.er..
wlent an operation for appen licitis at
an Anderson hospital this morning
'l'onight the hospital authorities re
(Continue! on Page Five.)
' it xill be of h it to you.
'n.
ding we find the nerchants
)5( stole fillel vith all
Second is the ('anly hoo'th.
(can get ini a wordj('' cros-.w~8s
a hag of t8andy, w\hile (othVer
they'v('1( cn l!1make suc'h sweet
hO.Th PLV'lowlp a Ilardwr
L a it'n Chur h-nd the Ia
IdolI i n g oth a go a
l~lnl ls, al1' ldi as air. ('lr
E hat the inte'resta (ofh a .
rmtion dsrd ~
hesr hand will(C( dal'( tnhi
cthfoavio t->C thed Fun
uandefain gonld tip ur ht
U"y(thtl harveal copanye(
ndtthey have whcneededhave
ur' name wvill ever stand in
>untvy for the magnifien
