EliIM?
HOME EDITION
WEATHER FORECASTS.
EI Po and West Texas, fair, warmer.
New Mexico, fair. Arizona, fair, colder.
LATEST NEWS BY ASSOCIATED PRESS.
SINGLE COPT FIVE CENTS.
EL PASO. TEXAS. THURSDAY EVENING. NOVEMBER 16. 1916.
DELIVPPED AVTWUERE Mic A MONTH
FOURTEEN PAGES TODAY-
.S. Wants8-HourLawDecidedBy Jan. 1
r
TODAY'S PRICES
Mex'eaa bank notes, state bills, fn
15tie pesos. 54c Mexican sold. 49c;
cis..oml. 16c bar sliver H. & H. quo
latlon, Tljc copper 532 032 craini
trr gular. livestock; steady stocks
higher
S c HERBD
1TBT
First Case Tried Is To Be
Carried to Supreme Court
For an Early Verdict.
RAILWAYS' WANT
LAW INTERPRETED
If Law Is Constitutional,
What Does It Mean?, Is
I Railways' Question.
,Y
MAKE CONTEST
Arizona Governorship Eace
Is Expected to Be Taken
Into the Courts.
Phoenix. Ariz, Not. 16. More than
a week after election da, no one
knows yet who is to be the new gov
ernor ot Arizona. The Republican state
committee still claims 100 plurality for
Campbell. Fredonia, a Mormon settle
ment on the Utah border, a hamlet or
dinarily Democratic gave Campbell 37
and Hunt only 10. Bat Cochise county
strengthened her Hunt majority to 827.
May Go to Count.
The Democrats, In an event, seem
little inclined to abide by the result
without a struggle Every connty can
vass is to be scrutinized closely, as
well as the state count- and a contest is j
to be started if the present situation
continues to the official report of the
gross vote. Probably the row will be
pursued into the courts and not settled
much before the end of the year.
Specify Cronnd for Protest.
Already the Democrats have speci
fied their especial item of complaint.
It appears that several thousand bal
lots counted were marked as straight
Democratic, save for an amending
cross after Campbell's name. It is
claimed that In most of the precincts
such ballots were counted as for,Camp-
neii, mil otnerwise as marked. 'me
Democratic claim is that such marking
- sii sfr
in Hrairn t i
mm iples
KILLED 8! GIB
Interurban Strikes Auto of
Democratic State Com
mittee Chairman
Ft Worth, Tex,. Nov. 15. Paul
Waples, chairman of the state Demo
cratic executive committee, was killed
by an interurban car near Handley,
todav Mr Waples was a capitalist
and president of a large wholesale gro
cery company.
Mr Waples met death In front of
his coi ntry home, the car striking tho
automobile in which he was starting
for his office In Ft Worth.
n is in
BETHUT
WASHINGTON. D C Nov. 16.
Early decision by the supreme
court cf one of the rallroaj
salts attacking the constitutionality of
the eight hour day law probably will
be sought by the department of justice.
An appeal probably will be made In the
first case decided in the hope that the
Vnjted States supreme court may be
able to pass judgment as near a nns-
. ,,. T - .--- i wejnut'rauc claim j: null aucu umrKinK
wJ? .?naFy 1'hen the law would should vitiate the vote on the place of
fnJii e"etlve if not suspended .by.' governor. A decision, was given on this
inunction. question In territorial days bv chief
hhf JJ1 be Mghest court would justice Kent, of Arizona, he holding
n ii25 J! a" low.eT ,ederal courts that the amended ballot should be
The ?.SVti2??.se w all 'other B?lte- counted as marked, as showing olearly
nlllv "Stni?4,? p lcr has ?ot bf en the Intent ot the voter
iinaily settled but it was said todav
that this course Is being considered r y" ill
and probably will be followed. KeSlSnS UOVemmem 100
,jT rai notice nr the mini- e ie . -
sj s had been received toda by the 1
aep- rneni out no decision was reached
as to where it would endeavor to have
the first hearing.
mra
NUT GUP
Santa Monica, Calif, Nov IS
Nineteen automobile racing drivers,
including' the leaders In national com
petition, were started at noon today In ' several days.
the 11th Vanderbilt cup road race over Bucharest Rumania, reported a fur-
PLAN CHANCE IN.
IIIU1 LI
Texans Organize Associa
tion to Draft and Urge
Change in the Law.
Austin. Texas, Nov. 16. Important
changes to the general Irrigation laws
of Texas are to be submitted for the
consideration of the thlrty-fiftb legis
lature, which will have the effect of
giving greater administrative powers
to the state board of water engineers
and also more authority In the ad
judication of water rights. This was
decided upon as a result of the con
ference held here of a delegation of
persons Interested In Irrigation pro
jeects In Texas with the state board
of engineers.
Form State Conference.
This conference also resulted in the
formation of a permanent organization
to be known as the Texas Irrigation
conference, and a meeting Is to be held
here on December 15, when the organi
zation will be perfected A committee
was also appointed to prepare a con
stitution and bylaws and also to pre-
omce announces todaj. Increasing they -were found insufficient, It might ' amendments to the general Irrigation
Province Of Dobrudja Being
Cleared Of Invaders,
Petrograd Says.
BRITISH ADVANCE
APPEARS HALTED
Germans, Counter Attaching,
Recapture Part of-S'aillisel
From the French.
V
ONDON. Eng Nov. 16. Field mar
shal von Mackensen's army in
the Rumanian province of Do
brudja Is In retreat, the Petrograd war
FOOD COMHM
Necessity for Safeguarding
Food Supplies Discussed
' in Parliament.
London. Eng, Nov. 16 England is
to have a food controler with wide
powers of jurisdiction, if the plan out
lined in parliament Wednesday, by
Walter Runciman. president of the
board of trade, for regclation of food
consumption. Is adopted. Wide appro
bation, both by members of parliament
and by the newspapers, has been given
Mr. Runciman's utterances.
Mr Runciman In his speech an
nounced the Imminent appointment of
a food controler with full power over
all departments concerned in food
supplies and Immediate measures to re
strict the use of sugar, to prevent
waste and the making of large nrofits
in potatoes and milk and for forbidding j
th millini- T TtnvA nfhtl. fT.ii. IT.
said also that the government would
ask new powers under the defence of
the realm act to deal with all attempts
to exploit public necessities
These measures. Mr. Runciman ex
plained, would be temporary, but if
pressure by the Russo-Rumanlan army
In Dobrudja has been In evidence for
become necessary to have 'recourse in ' aw to he submitted to the next legls-
AVouId Interpret Statute.
the 8 401 mile triangular boulevard
course for 35 circuits, a total distance
of 294 033 miles -"
Besides the cup and prize money
there was at stake for the winner 900
points in the season's American Auto
mobile association's competition for the
title, "mister driver of the world" and ! ments.
$13,500. in which Johnny Aitken has a
lead of 240 points over Dario Rests
There were expectations of breaking
ther advance Wednesday towards the
important Tchernavoda-Constania rail
road which the Teutonic allies cap
tured In their drive.
Berlin today entered a denial of the
Rumanian claim and In its rport on
the Dobrudja campaign chronicled onlv
encounters between advanced detach-
M i..'-rvifrfM-OK Sweet who resigned as assistant
sk 5Kaas&warass- &K,to,5? ssjst I
To Run for Governorship;
eienieci Is rpnbtmntpn'aie record of 75.6 miles an hour estab
eymtcq, ia ieuppuimeu 1Jshed on tne game course bv palma
Washington, D. C Nov. 16. Edwin
food tickets.
The speech of tie president of the
board of trade was welcomed in all
parts of the house Sir Edward Carson,
on behalf of the opposition, and" George
J Win-die. for the Laborites, agreed
that the house was ready tolferrant the
power asked without the formality of
a bill.
France- Short Of Labor.
Dealing with the delay owing to the
shortage of labqr at French ports and
Lviuiuuiciii mnKeauao, .ir .tcunciman
The
Iature. This committee is composed
of judge R. L. Batts. Austin. W B.
Dunlap. Beaumont and J. C Nasrle.
chairman of the board of water en
gineers. Experience has demonstrated
a number of defects in the present law
which are to be remedied.
Temporary Officers Chosen.
Those in attendance at the confer
ence were Walter J Crawford. Beau
mont, J. "W. Gaines. Bay City: J. W.
Corbett Bay City W B. Dunlap. Beau
mont. Guy C Simpson, San Antonio;
O A. niand. Markham, L. E. Beadle,
Beadle Itojal A Ferris. Dallas: 3. E
Starley Pecos R. T Burges, El Paso;
I winner in 1914
Heat Record, First Lap.
Johnny-Aitken and , Dart Cooper, fifth
DISPLAY
nrifUh .. ti.i. rMw" "" "Vr irorn ouier
t, V 7 j -.. i pans oi me world to relieve this con-
reClOD 111 Franitre SPPm In IT)a Kaltail J-i , . ..... Acetatont otfvnAVO na.Al r i-
ilrx?llS5r-fl! JK, S?.?S S? ,W "e explained that the BrtlSh'ySd. I S - P, B Smedley, and 1 Judge R. J
lin7 howevi?. reuorti "&JZZ t,v. ' Mrer? n working up to their maximum J ?; '"'liZ? i'." 1
xe British Wednes.Tavin'thi, TfK proouion. nr construction must Iw , X' ,S.i."i":'M'V."''"'?'
araeetofhG Cf", which are de- , SS? add to BllMU '" Sw: tie tattVr Vflne aisS SeS gv ,?Ltheh ? Z&w.
-" t-oc Z4ia HTEf-a HPni Tft lion
the British Wednesday, notably- on th
riuagi
viareu io nave oroicen aowit. x'lr"" .. - --ww
vtun&j ataygvw Jg.raigyih.d TOatefcn!layfgII.T
rnch fiwirprl pv'-x we couia nave nroaucea ztvvvt
'th?fSm ton yearly while our total losses I
, .. -. ...... .... . ., 1U..1 .. j ZW. i -J '
f VI Mi V.,RW WL.t t,, U lh
pine, uem Touoit ipg, unoiiiciai-ximr a inry consisieo, -according to taeL """ :aioji .jjjr in ure next six
l.on th? first lnn -wiiK'xlT minuter and Statement In the canturi. in hm,rfA tr? moilths. fre should not ttxriv mit nflrTr
JlB'seConds. betterm gTie record JiousaJ-fightlng, of the. eastern section 500,000 .tons."
Parral Merchant and Family
Murdered After Rousing
Villa To Fury.
TRAIN ROBBED
BY VILLISTAS
Carranza Cavalry Reported
In Pursuit; Another Train
Is Unheard From.
THEODORE HOEMOIAER. a mer
chant of Parral, Chihuahua,
together with his wife and baby,
were killed by Vllla-bandlts when Villa.
occupied Parral, a report received here
by a Parral mining comnanv. Thnr-
day, states. HoeinuUer Is said to be a
German subject
According to- the .report made to the
mining company, Hoemuller's execution
jvas ordered iwr-anut i,A i., ,..,
a display of "ears cut fro "cala
soldiers, together with an lnsultlnc-let-ter
against Villa, to beZplaced li the
window of his store-
"t pairs or ears: Tho
i inc i.uiucicM(.e aic rfauil Y. vsatnec l mm hj T J ZT cMlitca
presiaeni, ana juace w x. potter, sec- I wrr? " , S- . "" "juaa oi
uinm n naimsinr
edsdvt T reporrSdyrjitS: ifrlng the -war ha ve been only .125.000. fl I i r-
ty.- They consisted. 'Iccofdlne- to thi ' Koj-ho reason . w.hy hi the next six UU I 1 1 1 1 II f llUliuUl T
figers comprising the national confer! VHROa-
cuvo iruninixiiee oc railways announced ,-. . . ... ...i i
In a statement Issued hei .DEMOCRATS MAINTAIN'SAITE
t.w, ucsigucn iu iesi ice vaiiair ot t
the law and to restrain the govern-1
rnent from putting It Into effect were ' an 1 ranclsco. Calif Nov. 16. bettering he Palmes remrd over thre. l"ons m the St PterreWiasT wood, eat thin th? ZrZXZZ aJZIXZLSZ
iiiea ir mis city Wednesday bv the iwenty-one counties in ualllorma re- ' i.:. -; . - j .V and of French ir.n., .t. .V7 7- ". ." .. r "..'." "-;""'- i
ITAn IM fATICflDMIA rnilUTT Wtk-en lorl 9 h flflTi 1ht msiTlnr f the TillaCe of Katlllspl ut, !, Pnrmharlnumi, fht. nnnnln.n.n
i irrnoir Tr-n vl . Vthe A 3 mllel In 19 minutes 30.4 seconds, tr nch were : menacing the German po food controler, who must, have .powers 1
1 trancisco. -alir Aov. 16. t.,h,hho n. n,im,-c nM,j .,.. sltions in th St PlfrB.v,. . .i., .,- i.r i. --L!:ri? '
New T-Tk Central and Erie railroads, mained to be heard from today In the
Many Store Sull. To Be Filed. i 0,rficiH canvass ot the presidential elec-
innexwavs V "T ZZ ??&$Fi2Z
' e "countlnlartteled'e SSSSJSS
Diego andijBacramento
, t.. .i,.ii..- j.wv.lt lv. , nnen me count was resumed t
,-C TJlOLi!,,t0nfer.eceltne highest Republican elector
ittee. Mr. Lee Issued a state-'credited with iis-s r.i hii.
lsha
ment at the end of the committee's
tiree da secret session, explaining the
railroads program in their fight
aga'nst the law
Questions Involved.
The statement follows.
Two questions are Involved in the
appeal hy the railroads to the courts
lor light n the idamson law.
1 la the law oonstitutional?
-2 If it is constitutional, what does
it mean'
was
lvest Democratic had III.OGS. a ma
jority for the lowest Democratic elec
tor of 13.S40
Democratic leaders predict their
lowest elector will run ahead of the
highest Republican elector at the finish
by about 600 votes.
N. M. OFFICIAL RETURNS
SHOW LITTLE CHANGE
.JL'V.tSfT? befS "Presed. ! t"is on Rooseeltand Chaves counties peaceful relations between Japan and i
".. """"S .lhl -th-e Jtlt:1.3 "ceived today, vary little from esti- the United States: I
maies as to tne election result in those "It affords me much
the fir&t
minutes Cooper was second and
Thomas third. wlh the field trailing
Two Ont of Itye.
Cody was out in the third lap and
Rlckenbacher dro iped out with a split
gear in the fifth, leaving 17 in the race,
Igraz and Lentz falling to start
EMPEROR- OF JAPAN SENDS
GREETING TO PRESIDENT i
San Francisco. Calif, Nov. 16. The
following wireless message was re
ceived here Wednesday night from
Tokio, Japan, from emperor Xoshlhitd'
of Japan in reply to a message of
greeting from president Wilson ex
pressing the hope for long continued
?nd flf French trenches on the north- . to coordinate all aet.vities tho Tnini.ter-
The Weneh ilJiM ,,,in., ,h ! a""oaod that wider powers wo'uld be j
mJnsol1hCof7hCt;l,?nfn?2innS' ??! ' ?'" OTdr of council today for
"". where a German counter attack
was announced Wednesday to have
wrested a part of the village of Pres
soir from French possession
The French recaptured this ground
Wednesday night Paris announces
n HERS
I counties.
Tinconstitunonal and there are conflict
In opinions as to how the law, if con
stitutional, should be applied.
""Therefore the railroads must, as a
matter of dutj ask the courts if the,
awis within power of the courts. It . Bursum. 233
"W. w not,alon "el Chaves gives Wilson, 2291. Hughes,
"W' ,h?se Properties, but also , $66 Jones. 2331 HubbelL 836 Walton
th public that provides the revenues 2342. Hernander, SIS De Baca. 21'4
lor n - payment of wages i Tti.ronm 45S "-o. -i-
naiinaj if 111 uoey urm HHnaaic,
li KILLED ir
Si EXPLOSION
"Tndon Eng Nov 16
against j
i
Baltimore, M D, Nov 16 The emi
gration of southern negroes to norths
ern labor centers was brought today
to the attention of the convention of
the American Federation of Labor
when the committee on organlaztlon
favorabH reported a resolution desig
nated to eliminate what -was- charac
terized as a "menace to the workers in
r T.,. r.. , I summer made from SO to 100 marks a portatlon of
pleasure that ' . , ... . . . ""- i aay ov making excursions into the
.,.- .,., aaiiuiui ucHSDitDer Aiznn mntncn mv. rrmnt,' an,i ..v.. -- .- ,. :
Ul Ult3 lIlSlUlliLIUll UJ. - o-.
,,?0?see,t.i.vesJ,'If0?- 10S1- Hughes, I wireless telegraphy between Japan and tha some day- ago an explosion ot- roos ,a tneT,
L Jw . "ii HS-b,beIi Ji8- Wa"on- the United States has been to transmit curred on board the Russian ammuni- Ahtw"i13t?nd ,
119b Hernandez 23J- De Baca. 10S0 I,.., onrHial m,n., in return I inl . . t. .u-.ii .vimihuhi of fn piants
Bursum. 232 jour cordial message, in return i send lion steamer Baron Breceni at the Rus- sllirhto.t m tr
"If ihe law is declared constitutional
It is expected the court will make clear
s rcan-hg and the railroads, it is
tir-c essarj to say, will faithfully fol
low the instructions of the courts.
Ir 'te urlngmg of suits throughout
the countrv the railroads have no de
s -e tJ d-lay action or to resort to
ch-i Tillies. The railroad are anx
ious to bave a speedy decision on the
po.nts at issue. These separate suits
are necessary to protect the individual
roads A single suit will protect the
Individual road only in the particular
-r sdi'-tion In which the test case was
b- ught and would leave all roads sub
ject to prosecution in other jurisdic-1
tlons.
"The railroads have chosen what
seen-a to be the shortest and most
prartual method of reaching an early
fs.de isioc and, in the meantime, avoid
ing a multiplicity of prosecutions and
suits.
"The railroads earnestly desire to
take the right road and it is for this
reason that they have asked the -courts
for light to show them the road."
1,1., Avn-Ace.nn e .- fhanlr. e th. ' " uicvcm rtl llir ilU
good wishes exhibited toward me and an seaport of Archangel, causing the
my people and of the hearty desire en-i death of 150 yersons and the wounding
: oi t.jO others, according to a disn.iirh
tertained throuch6ut Jaban for the con
tmued prospent and welfare of the
United States.
"Toshlhito "
SCVTTEItEU WIOMING MlTEs
HEIJIjCE MOMlhLL'S IXlllf
of Frank W. Mondell oVer J. D Clark j DUTCH PARLIAMENT PAVES
uof?icu5e,firesrod,eyd- tosT" WAY FOR WOMEN TO VOTE
lnlfedSnrVcaa'er-ofirfro'm The HagUe- H""fnd- NV" 16-By
remoteKecttons. Or these MondU had unanimous vote, parliament has pa-sed
19; .Clark 40. I a resolution providing that henceforth
tSSifd mS'p"! thw. will be universal manhood
mp-nfr rt th-- T.iVrt ,n nie: o .r 'suffrage and no plural votes or com-
reat Mondell. although It was admitted
siderably.
f I mii;hi
induced con-
SWITCHMEN TELL OF LONG
HOURS; ASK SHORTER DAY !
New York. Nov 16. In the hearing
of the controversy between the Swltcb
TEij's union and 13 railroads for an
elfcht hour -day and a higher pay. the
oard of arbitration Wednesday heard
tef'tnoni of switchmen who told of
woK p' 14 to 16 hours a day F. I
gi. est" l a switchman in the New
V ' ntral yards at Buffalo told of
sw en failing asleep while eating!
'e r i h and being discharged when I
th v fa led to return to work in time, j
1,? l.-toi testified he averages 12
" work a dav and does not see his
11 nn make for weeks at a time
FOREKArR MI.RD OK HllIT
IN MEXICO TK1-N Vt IUICK
B-r Aoclate4 Pree.
Washi- t,ton D C. Nov. 16 The state
depa -ti e ha received the names of
cue roan uled and two injured in a
train wieck near Jalapa, Veracruz,
Mexico lat Saturdaj
The d spateh said -several American
ami a number of other foreigners''
were auard the tram, but failed to
Indicate the nationality of those named
'"bey were Robert Du Boise, killed
r E L. Bvrd seriously injured, and
W1" it V Gin shphtlj Injured.
HLGHES'S. l'LlRVLIT l.ItOW-
IV MINNESOTA' COLNT
St Paul. Minn. Nov. 16. Charles E.
Hughes made a slight net gain in Min
nesota today through a c--rected un
official vote on Houston county and
the auditors' sheets from Leseur. Mor
rison. Nower and Waseca counties Th
totals at noon stood Wilson. 178,813.
Hughes. 179.238. Hughes's plurality,
426
W iHIr.TO TO CKLElinVTE
TONIGHT WILMIVS RETl R
Washington. D C . Nov 16 The
welcome celebration planned for nresi-
dent Wilson by residents of the capital
on the occasion of his return after a
summer's absence, which was post
poned from Monday night because the
political rampaigns had used up all the
available red fire w ill be held tonight
FAIR AND WARMERls
FORECAST FOR TONIGHT
El Paso vvas treated with a little
consideration bv tbe elements Wednes
dav night and Thursday morning, the
lowest temperature being 24 degree
at G ocloek Thursdav morning.
The local weather bureau's predic
tion for tonight and Friday is fair and
warmer.
pulsory voting.
The sex disability of women also Is
removed by the resolution. The actual
granting of the vote to women, how
ever, is still distant as 4t depends on
the passing of an electoral bill, which
at present is unlikel
Early in the present year, premier
Cort Vander Linden, of The Nether
lands, introduced a bill in parliament
under the provisions of which Uie con
stitutional obstacle in the way of
woman's rights to vote would be re
moved The bill also Included a pro
vision giving women the right to be
elected to office
MUSHROOMS PLENTIFUL IN
GERMANY AND HIGH PRICED
Berlin, Germanv, Nov IS For no ex
plainable reason except speculation
mushroom have soared -n price to such
a height that the authorities are being
called on to step In. establish maximum
Prices, or take some slmilA- tnac,-A
io Keep tnem within reach of the com-
I This season mushrooms are so plentf- f ,he northern states
t ful that the price paid by the whole- ' Tne resolution, which was adopted
I J? 12 !no?? w,no fther them ranges j )v the convention, recited that the lit
atThis5 loVWrfSlMeTdSinTtS. ' " Is"on and 1m-
txt fiAr9 ilAtnAnDTVAtAj that thav sfv-AA
u"t-r5r.3ni?,ck,nT-.as nnr mush-i ,. .., Mr,h fo lh. i...
couia carry.
ng this suoerabundanop . of union men demanding better condi-
hflj nnt toniArl In .Via i .. . .1. a t 1.. 1.
.llwhT 1 .1. ,i . uuiis, teta i mc vaa ui iicisiu uau
.....d .w ftii mo rciaii prices aown. f
Today mushrooms sell at retail for from I
110 to 125 pfennigs a pound. I
650 others, according to a dispatch
from the Swedish capital to the Ex
change Telegraph company
FERGUSON APPOINTS STOWE
TO SUCCEED J. A. OWENS
Austin, Tex, Nov 16 Governor
Up To Necks In Water
And Mud, Allies Fight
And Seize Foe Defences
London. Eng, Nov 16. Telegraphing
from the headquarters of the French
army at Saloniki under date of Nov.
15, the correspondent of Reuter's Tele
gram company, says:
"Yesterday the French. Russian and
Italian forces, operating west of the
dlers.
Luis Herrera, the refugees' story states,
with an Invitation to "have them, for
breakfast- These ears together witli
an open letter denouncing the cruelty
of the bandits, were placed on display
in the Hoemuller store, according to
the refugees, and'left there, for several
days.
"When Villa and his bandits arrived
in Parral they learned of the display
, t5?eaM and r the letter criUels-
v?m7?,a:i.ThIs. ls SJUd to haTe angered
Hla to the point of frenzy and he or
dered Hoemuller and his family killed,
the refugees declared.
Pansenser Train nobbed.
nrthbound passenger train from
Chihuahua City was held up Wednes
day at Terrazas and the passengers
robbed, according to reports Thursday
to Carranza consul Soriano Bravo. The
passengers were robbed. The bandits
noldinir UD tba train wta w.m.....-.a
I Jy the bandit chiefs Corral and Murga.
The train ls expected to reach Juarez,
llMllglll.
The passengers were robbed of their
clothing by the bandits, and watches
jewelry and other valuables taken but
none of the passengers were maltreat
ed and there was no one killed, ac
cording to the report from Chihuahua
City.
Cavalry In Pnrrait.
A force of Carranza cavalry is re
ported to be In pursuit of the bandits.
The are thought to comprise the same
oand which held up an drobbed the
southbound passenger train near La-
syys niiiTiMi polici noni:
TH ritLsMVN MILITARISM
Amsterdam. Holland. Nov 16 The
cologne uazette, commenting on tho .
British replj to the American note re- i southern states.
states." the. president and executive
council of the federation were expected
to begin a movement looking toward
the organization of negroes In the
gamins blacklists, mvk
"Everything remains as before. Eng
land is mistress of fhe seas and who
ever wants to carry on commerce can
do so only with her permission and un
der her supervision. Is not this
navalism a thousand times more com
plete and omre oppressive than on
thing In German militarism which
really does not exist is supposed to
have doner
C0.1XHI IV CVSl 1LTV LIST.
river Cerna. attacked the enemv's lines ' o.. TTliies , SvUn. -.."i"
branch o:
large per-
HirFZiy . . , .1. P on tbe ni8ht r October 30 when
prevailed in Ohio apply in all northern i 29 of the Carranza train njari, w?
executed and the passengers robbed
of their clothing and valuables.
Marcos ,Corral. one of the command
ers, is a brother of Villa's first
wife. Mrs Luz Corral de Villa. Murga
is one of the Murga brothers who are
operating under Villa.
Nothing has been heird from the
train which left Juarez for Chihuahua
Thursday morning and It Is feared
that this train was also held up and
robbed The telegraph line which was
cut. has been repaired and messages
are now being received In Juarez.
A resolution also was adonted look
ing to the organization of a depart
ment comprising these organizations
directlv connected with the theatrical
industry.
BIBB RESIGNS AS PHYSICIAN
AT COLONY FOR FEEBLE MINDED
Austin, Tex., Nov 16 Dr. B B. Bibb,
of Austin, todav tendered his resigna
tion to the governor as physician for
the new colony for the feeble minded.
BRAHAN IS RELEASED AND
WILLIAMS HELD FOR BOND
Ban 1am tn "Rrahnn wfcr n KaAn 1..14
n,ril,i:,.nraI.nh8t0rS? Dspi,e " san "haTe '"been "slight!? morTn h '". ,0 i'eh!8tabl,Sh.ed i""' ' f0r Investigation on a political charge
opposition, the French captured th 0 000. according to a statempnr m.H B.ibb resigned because he is soon to . th-, i,,,,r - f, ,.TO,
whole system of defences around last night by fhe casnaltv lLb ,fave Texas and make n,s nome ln Nw- , , 3 I several days, was
Kenali. which also feJI Into French tZ '.irr.,., n.e.l,S.aaIt. branch of York Citv It was announced tnat no released Wednesday.
- - ........... 11 ,a,K Il,.r ..nnl...... . ...... . ., , . ....
rfuacpti iviiiiums. anoiner Jjnencan
who has been reposing In tho Mexican
carcel, will be released as soon as a
bond of 32600 Is furnished. Lie Rafael
centage returned 1bXi,I?, P appointment of a successor to Dr Bibb
y convjfesfent Th. n.,L nI,DS3r ,are 'R,U be made unt" the completion of
r, given as 945: thii. . w f k"10?. ,s the buildings of the new Institution.
Re t" II' .w.l"e .t.1is "no dled Work Is now in progress on the build-
hands.
"Fighting at some places was very
desperate, the men beintr nn tn their
necks In mud and water. of wounds , T 1V77 n?h". 7l 's.no.w.in.Pro5,'.eS8 n..,h bu".d
attacT ,.?&; ?0?ZCTS; '" n"mber j t of t"ustin,anDeartCarp SS
iffdodb,"ht. hroi'e tohfIShiSnfrrSnri,nhe: . BIG GA PROGRESS AUTHOR OF "QUO VADIS"
retiring upon the Bistrica river" ! IN BROWNSVII.T.E DISTRICT F1IFC: IM CWIT7COI in
dies h-ti:ri di'Kiiititii ' ', iw-n.,arn,y
. , .. .. : .......... v.u iwt-i
Ferguson today announced the appoint- -. 'i, , j ""iana, .ov i Lount
ment of Charles I- Stowe. ot Sherman. I 7 un. Bogendorff. German am-
to be state superintendent of public , , '" 1,mlr. nungarv. men sud
buildings, to fill the vacano caused t "'ny Wednesday after a minor opera
Wednesday of
lion for an internal disease from which
the count had suffered for a long time,
says a dispatch from Vienna. Count
Twhlrskv has sometimes been called
'the man who caused the war '
JIHORS DE.VV BKIBER1 A
lrTEVIfTEIJ IN I.V.NB SUIT
Chicago, riL, Nov 1 Testimony for
the defence pas introduced today in
the trial of . C Frost charged with
bribing Olivier W Bourke, a juror In
the Alaskaland fraud case. In which
Frost wasTdefendant
Jurors took "the stand and testified
that "Bourke made no attempt to bribe
anyone
bv the death on last
Cj.nl Joe A Owens
Mr Stowe is an old resident of Sher
man and was a strong supporter of
governor Ferguson even before he an
nounced his candidacv for the office
Thj new appointee is evpected here ' imiTviN KKI5I THE vi:if;irr
within the next few days to assume, OF UIIMruK WRfitK
his new duties. Tor man years Mr 1 Ixmion. Eng. Nov 16. Speaking
Stowe was a merchant at Sherman ; editorially of the public uneasiness
over,h German submarine menace,
the Times says
"The new German submarine cam
paign has been an obvious and growing
menace for a considerable period and
the country is by no means satisfied
that the admiralty has been alive to It"
A1
OFFICIALS COVTIME
Wt VltllING HIP CONTRACTS
ashington. D C, Nov 16 Navj of
ficials and representatives of shipbuild
ers resumed conferences today over
awarding contracts for the 53 new
ships ror which bids have been re- I 32 KII LED Ml A. liovm
celved. i Paris. France v ie 1 j 1 .i.
depend the Havas agency, from Padua. Italy.
take the building program itself
ITnon the outerim mnT
.,w- ua ,7T"- .r:r r.iv. 1 " "" eilcJ rom
4iv.c . au.bn4uc4.ii, uiiucr- says me Tftfai nnmhur nf nor.nn. i.iti,.
tfilf OT I and u'innriu1 K a rineri. w-. . j .
let it go to private yards which pro- by an Austrian ator&turfav oFS?
many modifications
aggregated 90, of whom S2 w ere killed.
Texas Nov 16 The
representing a tbeoreti-
Iff inlfrimi. r .w. ..
. --. -'iiiiii.k in ur
- ,an,a vednesda night inv-xiinK the
I nited Mates at i'oint Isabel, thence
inarrhiR to Brownsv.il. departed "
ilay toward .san Bnlt . 1 1 , Ilortll
There an advance brigade of the
defending Whne armv ' commanded
hy I'oL It L. Rullard, awaits the ad
vance. The two forces entered todav on the
most extensive maneuvers held since
the "guardsmen were ordered to the bor
der In all, 20,e0 guardsmen from nine
states and several regular armv or
ganizations are involved
HANKER l'I.Kn llhFt.Ntr.
IN VII lllirit CIM1K.E lltl Al,
Waco. Tevas. Nov 16 T. R. Watson,
hank president, of Teague. Texas. Is
mak'ng self defence his plea to the
charge of having murdered John Pat
terson, state hank commissioner, at
Teague last August
Testifying Wednesday. Mr Watson
said Patterson had made a motion as
though to draw a gun. and he then
fired at Patterson and later at bank
examiner Eldred McKinnon who h
aid was starting toward him
D. Martinez, district judge at Juarez,
stated shortly before noon Thursdaj
that he believed that Williams s bond
would be furnished In a few hours.
Wljllams has been held in connection
Wfth'fh. .nn. ,... .. - ...
New York. Nov 16 Henr.k SlenVie- ." Ti"" r."""r"i "iJJL'""' L?
wiez. the. Polish novelist h.. k, i" "V""?- '. 'ST. "u,w' Josepi
hj8l.cPui"t?' ta'?.e author,.ot Q"? I Mr. Brahan stated after his releas.
iml? t . ki eJi'' ,SwlUerlfOd: that, on the occasion of h.s arrest 1
according to a cable dispatch received Juarez, he was there to teil a frienr'
here todav by the Polish Relief com- goodbye A Carrancista officer who
mttee j had seen him nt CasnA CrmJ., nnrn-.
f . ittl d-vtir n -k A sisrt w a. n &A.aa. n j a il.
.... i .- nurei ivu awuk etUU (UC
Slenkiewicz had devoted much of his
tune recently to Polish relief -work-
pose
U raso Most Kaise I hat $70,000 Budget If The City D
iTKRIIIKIt- STOltll SAAEEPs
I SOITIIUOT ALASKA COAST
I Juneau, Alaska, Nov 16 The most
terrific storm in many ears is sweep
ing the southwestern Alaska coast, sav
wireless dispatches received yesterdav
, from the Alaska Steamship company
I liner Northwestern The steamer,
which is already 84 hours overdue here,
from Cordova, reported that she would
be unable to reaeh Juneau for at least
another 24 hours.
I .NORFOLK FIRE LOSS 30.000.
Norfolk. Vj, Nov. 16. Fire which
early tdday threatened a square in the
business section of Norfolk, was sub-
aueu wiin a loss of about 1S0.000
arrest follSned.
Williams's bond was reduced Thjrs
day from 10.0 pesos to 5000 pesos. It
was announced todav
MEXICO EXTENDS MINE
FORFEITURE DATE TO FEB. 14
By Awoclated Press
Mexico City. Mex, Nov. 16. In case
where conditions have prevented the
operation of mines, the governmeni
has extended the date of forfeiture to
j February II Wednesday was tbe date
j previously set for forfeiture of mines
I which had been idle for two months
from September 14
Hundreds of mine owners had pro
tested against the expropriation decree
viii 6"Juna vnai u wa an Impossl-
ana ireezlns cold 1 work mines In ce-tain districts.
esires lo Frogresi
