MMM
Special to the Times-Record:
U. S. Amy Headquarters, San Beni
to, Texas, Nov. 11—It was "Our Folks"
who were coming, and I
stood by the
side of the post office in the hot sun
and the rolling dust clouds as wagon
after wagon train, as company after
company passed by so that I could
glimpse again "the boys from home"
and give them the hand clasp that my
heart dictated. In all of my experi
ence as a war correspondent this was
the happiest. I visited them for a few
hours in their camp at Mercedes twice,
and had broken bread with them. And
it was good bread, too, that came to
that Grafton outfit and to the hospital
company from Lisbon, each time. But
this was a chance to welcome the
North Dakota boys to "my station"
and to let them know that men from
North Dakota may roam far, that
thousands of miles may intervene, but
that that North Dakota fellowship
lives on and on through the years.
And they came down the hill from
the resaca, Col. Fraine at the head.
My hands ache yet, for I made up my
inind that the other boys must cheer
"my people," too. And they did. For
they were worth applause, those rug
ged sons of the Upper Missouri coun
try, walking erect, carrying weight
and never complaining.
The First North Dakota was out on
a four days' hike. This was the turn
ing point, this beautiful little city of
San Benito—with its orange and ba
nana trees, its gardens of countless
roses, its wonderful. flowers that
waved in the southern sun and bade
welcome to "the boys from home."
And, then, too, there were two north
ern flowers here to greet them, Mrs.
(Major) Angus Frazier, of Fargo, and
Mrs. (Captain) David Ritchie, of Val
ley City. They had come on the train
and they stood at the post office corner
and their help to me in a welcoming
way when these Flickertail boys came
romping in from a 15% mile hike be
fore noon was a good deal more dem
onstrative than a Chautauqua salute.
It was fine—simply fine.
The boys from home had marched
from Mercedes to LaFario the first day
out. They camped there for a night,
and before many a North Dakotan had
awakened on a frosty morning and be
fore some other North Dakotans had
gone to bed after a night of good or
bad luck, the First North Dakota was
on its way down the valley of the Rio
Grande toward the green city of San
Benito. The dust was deep, the way
was long and the sun was hot. But
when the Lisbon band came moving
along with easy stride and tuneful
music the people gathered on the side
walks. And I was proud when I told
the people that these were "my folks."
For everybody could see, if they could
see anything, that those boys are real
soldiers. They turned the corner and
marched up the boulevard to the camp
site that had been selected, and I
hurried along up there with a Major
Henry stride and we mingled together.
Boys whom I had known as little chaps
in Williston were big, upstanding fel
lows, tanned by the sun and made
stronger by the camp life. Many of
them had "grown out of my knowl
edge." I looked for Minot, but that
company had been left at Mercedes to
hold the lid down, the Minot tendency
on lid sitting having been demonstrat
ed in various ways. They were back
in camp doing guard duty. But there
were companies from every other por
tion of the state, and there was an all
afternoon reunion and one that stretch
ed into the night more than a yard
and a half up at the hotel, where Judge
Lyons, the landlord, had provided me
with some "headquarters" so that I
could give the boys a place to sit down
and rest while they were getting their 1
second breath.
Whitehead Meek Boys
Taking a Texas March
Announcement
We wish to announce that we have se
cured the services of Mr. V. Munsen, of
Minneapolis, a competent and experienced
optician.
We will test your eyes and make a thor
ough examination free of charge, advising
of diseased conditions when they exist.
We do all kinds of spectacle repairing,
frame bending and adjusting, duplicate your
broken lenses or fit you to new ones if de
sired. Our charges will be moderate.
Mr. Munsen is licensed to practice by the
North Dakota State Board of Optometry and
comes to us highly recommended.
We solicit your optical patronage.
FRITCH & CO
Jewelers and Opticians
As the night progressed a "norther"
came. A "norther" has a tendency like
a Dakota blizzard except that it is more
impetuous. Within five minutes it
changed from a glorious summer night
to a damp and cold one. The wind
blew and the rain fell. Captain Evans
of Williston, hadn't seen so much wat
er since he swam the Missouri. The
little dog tents, each intended to shel
ter two soldiers, drooped when their
aluminum pegs pulled out, and fell
upon the shivering inmates. Captain
Eckman, who has become the cham
pion mule skinner of the border, found
his couch very, very wet, and it is
probable that he pined for dear old
Grand Forks for several minutes. The
mules herded close and the horses did
the same, the wind swept the city and
the rain came down in torrents. That
Oliver boy from Lisbon had to pull his
feet in from out doors to keep from
getting splashed on. And through it
all one could hear Major Angus Fraz
ier sleeping on and on. Getting his
kilts wet is the only thing that can
awaken that Scotchman. Major
Wright, of Jamestown, was at first per
plexed and then nonplused. He decid
ed that this was mighty poor hospital
ity toward a man who had bled for
15% miles while he rode toward a
town which he supposed was nice. At
4 o'clock Col. Fraine came up to the
hotel to see me about that storm and
found that I was, myself, tenting at
brigade headquarters in another por
tion of the city. A little after dawn
we took up the unfinished businesstand
the sun came out and the day 'was
beautiful. But the dust had turned to
mud, and the weather still threatened.
The North Dakota Boys decided to
stay over one more day. And it was a
good day, too. Every hour or so Lieu
tenant Hamilton would get a telegram
from North Dakota, and he would call
Colonel Fraine and Major Henry aside
and there would be mutterings. Once
I felt sure that I had heard a cuss
word, and then I realized who they
were and knew that I was mistaken,
that it must have been Captain Welch,
of Bismarck, or Captain Gray, of Jam
estown. There were several telegrams
that day from North Dakota of which
I worried not until late in the evening
when I was advised that "among other
things" the people of North Dakota,
the soverign voters, had decided in
their wisdom that they would trade
Judge Fisk for Judge Robinson as a
supreme judge. And the sun went be
hind the clouds. Thus had watchful
waiting triumphed again, and the
Pfefferian period has dawned upon
North Dakota, following rapidly upon
the heel^of the black rust. Here were
more than a thousand men seeking for
news from home 2,000 miles away, and
Col. Fraine faced his duty like a
dauntless hero and told them what had
happened. I would not care to say
here what Col. Fraine said regarding
the results in another close race up
there. I have never used such lang
uage in a newspaper.
Captain Ritchie, of Valley City, was
fairly composed, though he was disap
pointed. He took a sliver of mesqite
and cleaned the mud from his shoes
and insisted that "the Slope" was still
to be reckoned with. Captain Sprague,
of Grafton, was either too mad to
fight or to proud to speak about it.
And Captain Eckman merely remark
ed "I'd like to see Steve Brynjolfson
now." There was a great deal of lan
guage used about the North Dakota
election and when the news came that
Wilson had carried the state a Virgin
ian asked Captain Anderson, of Fargo,
what state he was from and the com
pany commander replied: "If the
weather clears off we may get away in
the morning." It is probable that Cap
tain Anderson merely misunderstood,
but it was the most polite reply given
for a half hour or more in all of that
(Continued on Page 8)
VOL. XXXVIII—NO. 33. (Official County Paper) VALLEY CITY, NORTH DAKOTA, THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1916.
County Commissioners
in Two-Day Session
The county commissioners met in
adjourned session Monday with all
members present. After commiserat
ing with Chairman Cox over his de
feat they settled down to business.
The canvassing board consisting of
Thos. Gudmestad, chairman, Henry
Lee and Thos. Collins, clerk, checked
the election returns and reported to
the commissioners. No material
change was found in the results as
handed in to the county auditor. The
vote of all candidates by precinct
will be published in tabulated form
as soon as copy can be prepared by
the auditor. Allowing bills and rou
tine work kept the commissioners
busy, but they had the work cleared
up in time to adjourn Tuesday night.
CS
Pioneers Plan to Make
Merry Thursday Night
Thursday evening of this week the
annual meeting of the Old Settlers
will take place. The afternoon meet
ing this year will be eliminated, as
conditions were such that a supper
dance. All are invited to come and
enjoy the Old Settlers' meeting Thurs
day evening.
Chance Has Chance to
Escape His Jail Cell
THE WEEKLY TIMES-RECORD
Miss Dunn, private secretary to
Congressman Young, left Sunday eve- four miles from Alice,
ning for Detroit, Mich., and will spend
about a week there before going on to
Washington, D.. C., for the winter.
Ask Our Customers
if in doubt where to do your banking busi
ness—depositing, borrowing, savings or
anything else in banking seFvice— ask some
one who has done business with us.
Many new customers have come to us
through the recommendations of old ones.
We feel pretty sure that the client you
ask will be a satisfied one.
Jamestown, Nov. 13—If no new evi
dence can be produced, M. H. Chance,
of Tappen, charged with grand lar- and regular attendance.
ceny as result of elopement a month'
ago with 16-year-old Mary Riddle, of
Tappen, in her father's machine, will
be giv^n his release from the Kidder
county jail at Steele on a habeas cor
pus writ.
This is the information which has
been brought to Jamestown by At
torney John A. Jorgenson for the de
fendant, who after having his appli
cation for a writ of habeas corpus
quashed by Judge Hanley, of Mandan,
sitting in the district court ot Wash
burn for Judge Nuessle, of Bismarck,
took his appeal to the state supreme
court.
In the application for the writ, At
torney Jorgenson contended that the
evidence was not sufficient to hold the
prisoner in jail and that he was being
held more on fear that he would marry
the daughter than for the crime of
grand larceny in connection with the
theft of the machine, which the de
fendant's attorney maintained was
borrowed.
The writ was granted and the pro
ceedings in the justice of the peace
court in Kidder county were set aside
but the prisoner was remanded to the
custody of the sheriff of Kidder county
OR behalf of a motion by the state's
attorney of Kidder county, who said E. A. Raymond, of Mercer, was In
he has some new evidence to produce, the City Saturday on business, and
while here was the guest of his par-
Ben Armetage, who has been assist
ing at the Gill department store for
some time past, has returned to his
home in Minneapolis.
."'-J,
Ladies Pave Way for
V. C. Community Club
A joint meeting of the clubs of the
city was held Monday afternoon at 4
o'clock in the city hall. There was a
large attendance, 42 ladies being pres
ent. Members of the Sorosis, Sheyenne,
Music, Home Economics and Tuesday
clubs attended the meeting, and Mrs.
J. E. Featherstone presided as chair
man. It was decided to organize a de
partmental club, to which end a reso
lution was adopted, and the name was
decided upon as "The Community
Club of Valley City."
Rev. J. F. L. Bohnhoff went to
Springvale township Tuesday to offi
ciate at the marriage of Esther, daugh
ter of Henry Rathje, to Alfred Krech,
of Eldridge, Cass county, the marriage
taking place Tuesday afternoon at 2
o'clock. The couple will live on the
groom's farm in Eldridge township,
H. E. McCready left Sunday eve-1
ning for Minneapolis on business.
It does not pay us to have any other kind.
BANK OF VALLEY CITY
I.
Neighborly Study Club
Gets Tips on Building
The Neighborly Study club met Mon
day afternoon with Mrs. W. M. Green
wood. It was an especially good meet
ing and the members felt the credit of
this fact was due to the leaders who
could not be served. The meeting will were so well prepared.
be held in the Armory and the busi-1 In the study of sociology Mrs. Green
ness meeting will start at 8 o'clock wood led, discussing modern psycho
sharp. First on the program will be logy in relation to social problems. By
the report of the secretary, followed an excellent diagram the connection
by the election of officers for the en- between instincts and acquired habits
suing year. Alter the election of of- was shown, also that psychology gave tional bank of Watertown, Wis.,
fleers the evening program will be en-1 us the understanding of human behav- clared the First National bank of Cas
joyed. The Hearing orchestra has ior, and became a basis for the under-1 selton had had no account at his bank
been engaged for the evening, Mrs. standing and study of political science,: for six years when, on Aug. 1 1914, it
Craswell will sing "The Little Old Sod economies, history, ethics and religion, is charged, defendants had made a
Shanty on the Claim." The Musical: She said thai such social morkers as sworn statement that their bank had
(larks will be with us and Dr. Hunt: Judge Ben Linilsley showed a practi-! $6,000 due it from the Wisconsin in-'
has promised a musical treat, after cal knowledge of psychology. stitution.
which the dance will be called. All Mrs. A. L. Tenney had charge of the I 'ther witnesses called by the prose
old settlers are requested to be pres-: second part of the program, speaking cution yesterday were C. O. Simmons,
ent at 8 o'clock sharp for the business on house planning. She brought the cashier of the State Bank of Grandin
meeting. The board decided to make attention of the club to many details, O. J. Bagley, receiver for the Towner
a charge of 50 cents per couple for old! such as the coal bin, vegetable cellar, State bank T. J. Tonner, cashier of
settlers and $1 per couple for others laundry, cistern, porches, refrigerators, the same, all testifying to accounts
who wish to come and take in the woods and finishes, back plaster, and carried for the Casselton institution.
built-in accessories. It was decided by R. S. Wilson, of Baston, Mass., was
the ladies that Houses in North Dakota on the stand when court adjourned,
should be built for warmth, and that His testimony related to loans he had
long roofed porches and extra wide made in the state and handled by the
overhanging roofs were to be avoided,
as keeping out the sun and subsequent
warmth.
This club invites all those to join
them who will be earnest in the work
Company Members to
Get Surgeon's Discharge
Mrs. Tenney, though not pretending
to be an expert, is fully able to draw District Attorney M. A. Hildreth not
up plans and has had much building having entirely recovered from his in
experience. All who heard her felt' disposition of Saturday. He is able
that this was a subject more women1 to be present in the court room, how
should understand.
Jamestown, Nov. 13.—Arthur Park
inson, a member of Company H, First
infantry, North Dakota national guard,
now in the camp hospital at Llano
Grande, may be discharged from ser
vice on a surgeon's certificate, accord
ing to word from Captain James Gray,
of the company.
"It is very doubtful," writes the cap-1
tain to Secretary Haas, of the Com-|
mercial club, "If Parkinson could en
tirely recover in this climate. Earl
Bensch is also in the camp hospital,
but is expected back into the com
pany's camp within a week."
At the hospital in Fort Sam Hous
ton are William C. Broughton, Dewey
W. Hagen, Lyle Roberts, John A.
Washburn and Pat Conlon. Brough
ton, it is believed, will also be dis
charged on a surgeon's certificate of
disability.
ents, Mr. and Mrs. F. W, Raymond.
Wm. J. Fritz was In the city Thurs
day from Lucca.
,y
Hastings will have a corn show or
industrial fair in their little city Sat
urday, and it promises to be full of in
terest to the citizens of Hastings and
vicinity. Arrangements have been
COURTENAY MEN MAKE
KILLING WITH FLAX
Courtenay, Nov. 13—Leslie Benno
and Arthur Benno of this village have
made a "killing" growing flax. They
sowed 600 acres to it on the Fort
Berthold Indian reservation. The crop
went 13 bushels to the acre. They sold
$18,000 worth making $12,000 clear.
They broke up the coal land in that
vicinity, getting the crop for the
breaking.
Damaging Testimony
Features Kittel Trial
Fargo, Nov. 14.—Several witnesses
from points as far east as Boston,
Mass., were on the stand yesterday in
the trial of R. C. and W. F. Kittel,
president and cashier respectively of
the First National bank of Casselton,
which closed its doors Dec. 6, 1915.
They were called by the prosecution,
most of them for the purpose ot
showing the standing of accounts of
the defunct institution with various
banks.
L. E. Correll, who had been on thb
stand since Friday noon, concluded
yesterday morning. His testimony
consisted mainly of identifying records
and entries in the books of the Cas
selton bank of which he was cashier.
J. L. Wire, attorney for the City
National bank of Chicago, testified
that the bank which he represented
had no credit for the First National
bank of Casselton at the time the
books of the defunct institution
showed that it had deposits totalling
$25,000 in the City National bank of
Chicago.
Geo. L. Wiess, also of the City Na
tional bank, likewise testified. Geo. L.
Ratt, bookkeeper for the Drexell State
bank of Chicago, testified to the same
effect.
C. C. Boyen, of the First Security
bank of Minneapolis, similarly testi
fied the closed bank did not have
credits at his institution as its books
showed.
School District No. 83
Dedicates Its Building
CORN SHOW AND FAIR AT I
HASTINGS SATURDAY' The people in the southeastern cor
ner of the county which comprises
made to have speakers of prominence was made by C. B. Waldron of the Ag
discuss topics of interest to farmers' ricultural college. He came out from
as well as a program full of important Fargo especially for the occasion. Rev.
events. In addition to the program a Vermilya, of Valley City, also gave an
fine display of grain and vegetables interesting and satisfying talk. The
will be provided for. County Agent Valkota quartet from Valley City ren
James and others from Valley City dered several selections and were en
will attend and there is every reason
to believe that it will be a successful
event and of much benefit to the en
tire community.
F. W. Gann, cashier of the First Na
de-
defendants
Judge John Carmody, assistant dis
trict attorney, conducted the examina
tion yesterday for the prosecution,
ever.
Mrs. B. S. Spurr, who has been dean
of women at the State Normal school
during the past year, left Monday eve
ning for the east. Mrs. Spurr first
stopped over in Fargo for a short visit
with Miss Hazel Nielson, who is a
teacher in the Fargo schools. From
Fargo she will go to Brainerd, Minn.,
for a visit with her sister, Mrs. Jennie
Grewcox, and daughter, Maybelle, go
ing on to Chicago from Brainerd. At
that point she will be met by her son,
Clinton, and they will go to Pitts
burg, Pa. Mrs. Spurr's host of friends
regret her departure from the city.
'.
ESTABLISHED 1879
school district No. 83 dedicated their
new consolidated school building Sat
urday in the presence of a large at
tendance of enthusiastic disciples of
education. The principal address
cored repeatedly. Mrs. W. T. Cras
well, of Valley City, led the assembly
in other singing.
While the new school building of
this district may not be as pretentious
as some that have been erected in
the county recently, it will serve the
district very nicely for several years.
The building proper consists of a full
basement large enough for the heat
ing plant and a gymnasium, three
rooms above besides recitation rooms
and one for domestic science.
Superintendent Minnie J. Nielson
has been instrumental in aiding and
abetting the project for this consolidat
ed school, and of course was present
at the dedication to felicitate the
school officers, patrons and pupils on
what they had accomplished.
The taxpayers and school officers of
district No. 83 have taken an advanced
step for the educational welfare of
their district and community, and it
is hoped the results will justify the
course they have taken.
REWARD FOR STOLEN CAR
Jamestown, Nov. 13.—H. N. Foster,
Jamestown photographer, still in a
pensive mood because of the failure to
get any trace of his missing Ford,
today comes forward with the an
nouncement that a $50 reward will be
paid "to the person giving information
leading to the recovery of the car."
The Foster machine was stolen
from the residence garage on the
night of Oct. 27. It was traced to
within a short distance west of Bis
marck.
Major John D. Black left. Monday
evening for Faribault, Minn., to spend
a day with Ridgeway Smith, son of Mr.
and Mrs. W. W. Smith, who is attend
ing St. James school at that place.
From'there the major will go to Mil
waukee, to visit with his son, Dr. N.
M. Black, and family, later going to
Hot Springs, Ark., for an indefinite
stay. Major Black expects to spend
the winter in Alabama.
Fargo Courier-News
Changes Ownership
Fargo, Nov. 14.—The Courier-News
changes owners with today's issue.
Dr. L. T. Guild, former majority
stockholder and editor, and A. L.
Westernhagen, business manager, have
sold their interests to E. S. Fentress
and Charles E. Marsh, former business
manager and editor respectively of the
Des Moines News.
Fentress was business manager and
part owner of the Des Moines News
for eight years, and previous to his
Iowa connection was business man
ager of the Oklahoma News at Okla
homa City.
Previous to his position as editor
and part owner of the Des Moines
News, Marsh was city editor of the
Cleveland Press, editor of the Akron
(O.) Press, and managing editor of
the Cincinnati Post.
The new owners today express their
appreciation to Dr. Guild for the fear
less and progressive manner in which
he edited the Courier-News for the
last three years. Dr. Guild is retiring
because the strain of newspaper work
has undermined his health and neces
sitates his taking an extended rest.
B. P. Guild, a son of Dr. Guild,
keeps his stock interest, and the new
owners believe they are fortunate in
retaining his services as advertising
manager.
Following a vacation, Dr. Guild is
expected to take up Chautauqua and
lecture work. He has been constantly
in demand throughout the northwest
for speaking engagements while editor
of the Courier-News.
Miss Mary Hackett returned to Wim
bledon Sunday evening after spending
the week end in the city at the D. S.
Ritchie home.
Farmers, Attention!
If you intend to make a FARM LOAN this fall,
do not overlook in calling on the—
Middle west Loan and Trust Go.
Valley City, N. D.
We can quote you a very low rate of interest.
Loan can be closed on the day the application is
taken.
