THE BARRE DAILY TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 208.
I3AKKE, VERMONT, THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1910.
PRICE, OXE CENT.
A
BEATEN
BULGARS
RETREAT;
Northward, Pressed Close
ly by the Entente Allies,
Who Are Now Within
Four Miles of Monastir,
According to the French
Statement
AT SERIOUS CRISIS.
Great Britain Loss of Tonnage Stir Brit
ish Lords.
London, Nov. HI. The matter of the
destruction of British shipping by Gcr-
i man aubmarinoa mine Hp in the JIoiiho
'of Lords yesterday afternoon. Huron
Sydenham invited the government to
I make a declaration in the nature of a
j"ton-for-ton" policy in behalf of Great
Britain and her allies at a reply to me
: monstrous proceedings' of the German
submarines. He declared that there was
- . : i 1. - t.f I, f
H lllltllBjr ICCIJllg III HIV ll'UUHJ ..,,
i me tunmanne menace was inure wnvua
than the authorities were willing to ad
nut.
Admiral Lord Reresford said that
m, T tt t ni....l Great- Britain had arrived at a serious
Their Line Has Been Moved origU ea,ling for mgy 8nd fore.iKht.
It was time for plain speaking, because
the House of Commons and the newapa
pers had been muzzled by the most ait
tocratio government since the time of
i'haraoh.
"Had the blockade been properly en
forced from the first," he asserted, "we
should not have been faced by this sub
marine menace."
The Marquis of Crewe, lord president
of the council, replying for the govern
ment, said it was useless to make such
declarations as Lords Sydcham and
Beresford demanded, without the power
to enforce them. The only voices which
could speak with influence now were the
voices of the cannon on the various
fronts.
"It is useless," said the Marquis of
Crewe, "to listen to exact particular rep
arations in the terms of peace unless we
are able to impose those terms by ob
taining complete victory."
The admiralty, continued the lord pres
ident, had been singularly successful in
the destruction of enemy submarines, but
the difficulties in dealing with this men
ace had increased.
The Karl of Lytton, civil lord of the
admiralty, havtng denied that the fleet
had departed from its traditional policy
of seeking out and destroying the enemy,
the subject was dropped.
. BRITISH FAIL
IN NEW ASSAULT
SOFIA AND BERLIN AD
MIT SERIOUS REVERSE
British on the Eastern End
of the Allies' Line in Mac
edonia Have Also Taken
Up the Offensive and Have
Captured the Village of
Karakaska in the Struma
Region
Paris, Nov. 16. French and Russian
troops on the Macedonian front are now
within four miles of Monastir, it was
announced officially to day. The war
office nays that the pursuit of the defeat
ed Bulgarians continues. On the eastern
end of the line the British troops again
assumed the offensive, defeating the Bul
garians in the region of struma and cap
turing the village of Karakaska.
During the night the Bulgarians
abandoned their principal position west
of the Cerna river. French and Serbians
took 400 prisoners and made progress in
the Cerna bend, west of Monastir. South
of Monastir the French and the Russians
are reported, to be making substantial
progress. It is in this region to the north
of Kenali that they advanced within
four miles of Monastir.
Berlin Official Report Tells
of Their Repulse at
Two Points
GRANDCOURT HOLDS
FURIOUS CHARGE
Berlin Also Tells of Capture
of Eastern Part of
Saillisel
Berlin by wireless, Nov. 1(1. Attack
by British troops on German lines along
the road from Maillev to Serre and also
to the southeast of Beaumont, north of
the river Anere, were beaten off by the
Germans in hand grenade fighting, the
war ollice announces to-day. Strong
British forces attacked Grandcourt, but
the assault broke down under the Ger
man fire. 1
South of the Somme the eastern sec
tion of Saillisel was taken from the
French and French trenches on the north
ern edge of St. l'ierre Vaast wood were
captured, together with more than 30O
prisoners and five machine guns.
GETS OLD PLACE
AFTER HIS DEFEAT
Edwin F. Sweet, Who Resigned Position
la Commerce Department to Sua for
Governor of Michigan, Reappoint
ed by President Wilson.
Washington, D. C, Nov. 16. F.dwln
F. Sweet, who resigned as assistant sec
rotary of commerce to run for governor
of Michigan and who was defeated, was
given a recess appointment to his former
position to-day by i'resulent ilson.
TELLS WEST OF GRATITUDE.
"ETERNALLY ON THE JOB"
25 BOMBS DROPPED
ON BUCHAREST
BULGARIANS FELL
BACK FOUR MILES
WEST OF IVEN
Four Civilians Were Killed and 20 Were
Wounded in Attack by Ger
man Airplanes.
London, Nov. 10. Another aerial at
tack on Bucharest was made Tuesday by
eight German airplanes, Keuter's Buchar
est correspondent reports. Twenty-five
bombs were dropped, killing tour civil
ians and wounding 20. ' .
Is
"ENEMY RESISTED STRONGLY."
Is Statement Issued By British About
Ancre Battle.
London, Nov. lC.The British general
headquarters issued the following bul
letin last night:
"During the day we further advanced
our front north of the Ancre.
"The prisoners taken since Monday
morning have reached a total of 5,678.
"The troops employed have shown con
spicuous skill, dash and fortitude. Our
success was not won without a hard
struggle, as the enemy resisted strongly,
and conditions of the ground greatly in
creased the difficulty of attack. Our
losses, considering the extent of our
gains, have not been high. One division
advanced a mile and took over 1,000
prisoners at the expense of 445 casual
ties.
"South of the Ancre we established
Official Statement Issued at Bulgarian
Capital Tells of Defeat Before
Onslaught of Serbians.
Sofia, via London, Nov. 16. The re
treat of the German-Bulgarian forces in
the Cerna bend under the assaults of
the Serbians is admitted officially to
day. According to the statement, ' the i the positions won yesterday" east of
Bulgarians have fallen back on a line . Butte de arlencourt. 1 he enemy mass
four to six miles west of Iven,' the last ing at one point for counter attack was
dispersed by our artillery fire.
"Yesterday our airplanes did much use
ful work. Last night they made success
ful bombing attacks on an enemy aero
drome, railway lines, stations and rolling
stock."
"During the night there was consider
able enemy shelling of our battle front
north and south of the Ancre," says the
war office statement to-day. "Other
wise there is nothing to report."
town west of Cerna reported captured
by the Serbians.
CAPTURED 400 GERMANS.
British Chaplain and Few Soldiers Were
Searching for Wounded.
With the British armies in France,
November 16, via Ixmdoii. A British
chaplain, while searching the battlefield
of the Ancre for wounded hidden in the
shell craters during tile British advance,
accompanied by a few Soldiers, came upon
an isolated trench containing nearly 400
Germans who promptly surrendered. The
chaplain ordered the men to file out upon
the open gound. preparatory to passing
them back with an escort, when the
German officer, seeing the small size of
the force to which he was surrendering,
tried to rally his men and overpower
it. Ho was about to kill the chaplain,
GREAT DISASTER
IN ARCHANGEL
Two Steamers Blown Up, ISO People
Killed and 650 More Injured, When
Munition Ship Had Explosion.
London, Nov. 16. A Stockholm news
paper After Tidningen says that some
What American Business Interests
Must Be.
Chicago, Nov. 16. "Conditions grow
ing out of the European war will demand
more than ever, that the people of the
I nited States develop and live in the
spirit of the international mind," said
C. L. Deering. former president of the
Chicago Chamber of Commerce, in an ad
dress on "World Trade Conditions of the
Future," before the American Mining
congress here to-day.
"We have repeatedly been reminded."
said Mr. Deering, "that the Spanish
American war of 1S08 made this country
an international power. Entrance into
the world as a world's power quickened
that international understanding known
as the Monroe doctrine and admonished
both ourselves and the world that here
after in statesmanship and in naval and
military resources we must measure up
to our responsibilities, even as in indus
trial and commercial development we
must measure up to our opportunities.
"The markets of the world are not to
be taken by conquest. They must be
won and held by the same business prin
ciples on which our domestic trade is
founded
ice, uniform fair dealing, unfailing re
liability and that faculty of being eter
nally 'on the job' that is the truest char
acteristic of American business.
"It is the foreign market that we
should strive to hold in the future. Then
there comes home to us at once the im
perative necessity of a merchant marine
American ships to carry American mer
chandise. Another thing we must con
sider is the establishment of a permanent
non-partisan tariff commission.
"Th? immediate and tangible opportu
nity is now to fit ourselves for the de
velopment the future may afford bv edu
cating ourselves and our people on the
principles of conservation, economy, pa
triotism and national preparedness."
President Wilson Also Promises to Visit
the West Later.
Washington, D. C, Nov. 16. President
Wilson expressed his gratitude to the
people of the West for their support in
the election in messages sent last night
in reply to requests that he visit that
section before Congress opens. lie said
lie would be unable to make the trip at
present because of critical duties, but
promised to go west later if possible.
The president sent t(ie following tele
gram to illiam u. Jving, successful
candidate for the United States Senate
from Utah:
'The invitation to visit the West tngs
hard at my heart because I feel deeply
grateful to all the West for the splen
did and generous support you have giv
en me; but I would not be worthy of
their generous confidence if I were to
leave my desk at a time when duties of
the most critical and pressing sort
crowd uion me. I am promising myself
the pleasure of such a trip if ever. I
can get free from the toils of exacting
duty and in the meantime wish to ex
press my deep gratitude, appreciation
and regret.
He also sent a message to F. G. Bonfils
and If. If. Tammen of the Denver Tost,
thanking the people of Colorado and has
written letters to Gavin McNabb, Dem
ocratic national committeeman of Cali
fornia, and several othr Democratic
leaders in that state expressing his ap
preciation of California's support.
BLAMES G. 0. P, LEADERS
For Suppressing and Disobeying Orders
in California.
San Francisco, Nov. 16. Chester H.
Rowel!, chairman of the Republican state
central committee, issued a statement
yesterday charging that the Republicans
who undertook to look after Charles E.
Hughes during the trip through Califor
nia not only made a bad job of it but
suppressed and disobeyed instructions
from the East. The tatement blames
them for the loss of the state from the
Republican column.
"If the advice and practically the de
mands of the national managers of Mr.
Hughes' campaign had not been defied
and suppressed by those temporarily in
charge of it in California" the state
ment said. "Mr, Hughes would now be
superior good, superior WTr-"f1eyond question predent-elect of the
United States.
Prediction that the lowest Democratic
elector in California wili rim ahead of
the highest Republican elector was'made
ast night bv Democratic leaders after
watching the slowly augmenting returns
from county clerks.
"The difference will be about 600 in
favor of the Democrats," said Sidney M.
Van Wyck, jr., chairman of the Demo
cratic campaign committee.
Available returns were not regarded in
fhemselves ns an index of the situation,
proportionately, because they were from
smaller counties, most of which had giv
en Wilson good majorities. They showed
the lowest Democrats 14.773 ahead of the
highest Republican but nearly all the
big counties are still missing.
IVILLA FORCE
WAS ROUTED
SOME APPLE EXHIBITS
SOLD FOR $12 A BARREL
A Carranza Advance Guard
Won Victory Near
Ortis
50 VILLISTAS
WERE KILLED
Carranza Casualties Are
Reported as Eleven
Wounded
Chihuahua Cify, Nov. 16. An advance
guard of Carranza forces met a Villa
band near Ortis, half way between Chi
huahua City and Santa Rosalia, and
routed them with a loss of fifty killed,
according to reports last night to Gen
eral Trevino. The Carranza casualties
were placed at eleven wounded.
U. S. MILITIAMEN
ARE DESERTING
BECAUSE OF COLD
Already 14$ Men Have Deserted Troops
at Fort Bayard, Where They Had
Marched for Manoeuvres.
Deming, N. M., Nov 16. The Fourth
Separate brigade, which left here for a
practice march, culminating in mameu-
reg at Fort Bayard, are badly disorgan-
zed as the result of the extreme cold
and on account of sickness and deser-
ions, according to reports from Fort
Bayard. The death of Corporal Hunt of
ompany 1, first Kansas infantrv, is
also reported and five men are said to be
dangerously ill with pneumonia.
I ho soldiers, driven to desert by the
intense cold of the high altitudes, have
bien arriving here singly and in squads
ince Tuesday, Captain Pegram, in tem
porary command of Camp Deming, said
he had been advised of 14.5 desertions.
JUMPED JUST IN TIME.
WILL RUSH THROUGH
ADAMSON SUIT
when a British infantry man shot him j 'lays ago an explosion occurred aboard
dead, V hereupon the other Germans, the Russian munition steamer Barron
Breceni at the Russian seapor of Arch
again held up their hands and shouted
their eagerness to be made prisoners.
FRENCH REGAINED
PART OF PRESSOIRE
Paris War Office Tells of Recapture of
Portion of the Village Taken by
the Germans Wednesday.
Paris, Nov. 16. The French last night
recaptured a portion of the village of
Pressoire on the Somme front which
the Germans occupied yesterday, the war
olh'o announces.
Tbr- statement issued by the war office
last night was as follows:
"On the Somiflc front the battle con
tinued with violence the whole day. The
enemy made a strong effort with consid
crable effectiveness at the same time
north and south of the. river. The resist
ance of our troop held back the assaults
of their adversaries, who were able to ob
tain only limited advantages at the price
of verv heavy losses.
"North of the Somme an attack was
launched after an intense bomliardment
atrainst our positions from Les Boeufs to
the south of Bouchavesncs. The enemy
succeeded in gaining a foothold in our
advanced element in the northern cor
ner and western outskirts of St. Pierre
Vaast wood. Everywhere else our ma
chine f.un fire and barrage fire checked
the attempts of the enemy.
"South of the river the Germans re
newed their attacks in the cours of the
afternoon on the front of Ablainconrt
and the Chaulnes wood. The etmgele
carried on with oltstinacy" ended in the
repulse of the Germans, who were obliged
to return to their trenches after sanguin
ary l-es except in the eastern part of
angel, causing the death of 150 persons
and the wounding of C50 others, accord
ing to a dispatch from the Swedish capi
tal to the Exchange company.
The Breceni and another steamer, the
dispatch says, was destroyed, and sev
eral buildings near the harbor and two
barracks took fire and burned down.
"THE MAN WHO CAUSED WAR.
German Ambassador to Austria Died Aft
er Minor Operation.
Amsterdam, via London, Nov. 16. A
dispatch from Vienna says the German
ambassador to Austria, count Techirskv
und BogendorfT, died suddenly Wednes
day afternoon from a minor operation
performed a fortnight ago for an in
ternal disease, from which he had suf
fered for a long time. Count Tschir
sky has sometimes been called "The man
who caused the war."
Department of Justice to Seek Early
Opinion by United States Su
preme Court.
Washington, D. C, Nov. 16. An early
decision by the supreme court of one of
the railroad suits attacking the consti
tutionality of the eight-hour law will
probably be sought by the department
of justice. An appeal will probably be
made m the first case decided m the hope
that the supreme court may be able to
pass judgment as near as possible to
January. 1, when the law becomes ef
fective if it is not suspended by an in
junction. A decision in the highest court
would be binding in all the lower federal
courts and might dispose of all other
suits.
HOPE TO GET MINNESOTA.
VON MACKENSEN
BURNING VILLAGES
Teutonic Leader in Dobrudja Said by
Petrograd to Be in Retreat Sharp
Fighting at Campulung.
Tetrograd, via London, Nov. 16. The
war office announces that Field Marshal
Von Mackensen'a army is in retreat in
Dobrudja, burning villages as it falls
back. On the Transvlvanian front in
the region of Campulung, Rumania, fierce
fighting ia in progress.
Democrats Are Encouraged as Votes Are
Turned In.
St. Taul, Minn.. Nov. 16 With 46 of
the Rti counties in Mintimota having
turned in their tabulation sheets to the
secretary of state and with unofficial re
turns from the remainder, including Hen
nepin and Ramsey counties, Charlos K.
Hughes' plurality was cut down to 38f.
The total vote was: AVilson, 177,789;
Hughes. 178.183.
The sheet from Reneville county made
the big difference over Tuesday night's
lead of more than a thousand credited to
the Republican candidate. Hennepin
and Ramsey returns are expected and
Democrats basing their hopos on enough
gain for President Wilson in those two
counties and the other 38 not having re
ported, possibly to change the result.
WILSON LEAD CUT DOWN
NO-TIP WAITERS DEMAND
Count Von Tschirsky had for many
years been prominent in the German po
litical world. He was appointed im-' wages to hotel men last night declared
$18 a Week Instead of $30 a Month in
Boston Hotels.
Boston, Nov. 16. Union waiters in
presenting demands for an increase in
nerial secretary for foreign affairs in ; that they would be willing to work on a
succession to the Baron Kichthofen in no tip basis if they were paid ?1 a
As New Mexico Returns Are Being Offi
cially Received.
Santa Fe, N. M., Nov. 16. Official fig
ures on the election received by the sec
retary of state yesterday from Bernalil
lo. Taos and Torrence counties added 435
to Hughes' total and 243 to President
Wilson's aggregate. With these taken
into account the vote now stands:
Hughes, 20.757; Wilson, 31.7!6; a reduc
tion of Wilson's lead from last night's
figures of 1S7 votes.
Official reports now have been received
from eight counties with 206 precincts.
There are 20 of the G3S precincts in the
state from which no report has been re
ceived. Most of them are small and
normally are Republican.
Rutland Man Slightly Injured By Lo
comotive.
Rutland, Nov. 16. While walking on
the railroad track near the plant of the
Rutland Manufacturing company, just
south of the West street crossing, about
8 o'clock yesterday morning, Elias L,
Jangraw of City Park was hit by a pass
ing train and thrown to one side of the
track. He escaped with nothing worse
than a bruised right knee.
Mr. Jangraw was returning to Strongs
avenuo after a visit to the Lincoln Iron
works, and to make a short cut, started
down the tracks. He heard, a "train com
ing behind him, and turning saw that
it was approaching on the track of the
Rutland railroad. Thinking that it was
a Rutland train, and forgetting that
there was a switch lust behind him, Mr.
.Jangraw stepped over onto the D. and If.
tracks and continued on his way.
Just before the train struck him, the
unfortunate man realized his mistake
and tried to jump out of harm. He was
successful in escaping the wheels of the
engine, but was struck by some project
ing part of the train and hurled to one
side of the track.
Mr. Jangraw was immediately given
the assistance of those nearby and Dr.
F. E. Quigley was called to attend him.
It was found that no bones were frac
tured and Mr. Jangraw will probably
be confined to the house for three or
four weeks.
Other Fruit Brought $8 and $10 Stu
dents of Norwich University Attend
ed the Show To-day Prof. Jenks
of University of Vermont Was
Among the Speakers.
Norwich university was represented to
day at the New England fruit show be
ing held at Montpelier, the students, ac
companied by Pres. Ira L. Reeves -and
other members of the faculty, being met
at the station by Mayor Boutwell and
members of the Board of Trade. The
Montpelier schools were also represented
at the exhibit to-duy, all of the forenoon
classes marching from the school to the
city hall, where the fruit was inspected.
The prize apples are being sold, the
proceeds going to the show, and some of
the fruit brought as high as $12 a barrel,
the other prices being $8 and $10 a barrel.
Those who attended this morning were
privileged to hear Prof. W. B. Jenks of
the University of Vermont speak on
Horticulture in Vermont Schools. lie
said in part:
" c teach horticulture in ermont to
show boys how to grow for the ordinary
farm orchard and farm garden. The
average farm orchard is neglected and is
I of very little consequence as a source of
income to the farm, whereas, it might be
one of the paying cash crops.
"The farmer's garden is generally the
poorest excuse of a garden. The village
man and the City man have, in almost
eVery instance, a better garden, both bb
to quality of things grown and the qual
ity of the products. To be sure, there is
good reason for this, since, to the village
or city man the garden is a source of
pleasure, a place to get good, wholesome
exercise of a different type than he would
have in his regular business; while on
the farm it is simply added work of a
similar kind in many instances, and is
neglected or put aside to wait for a more
convenient time, which often -.does not
arrive.
"In orcharding, boys can learn to
prune, to snray, pick, pack and store. In
gardening they can learn the manipula
tion of hot-beds and cold-trames; to
grow a succession ot crops ana now to
lengthen the vegetable season by proper
storage and canning.
"Best of all, they can learn the value
of the fruits and vegetable and the need
of growing the home supply. All this
has been and is being done in the schools
of ermont.
(Other addresses will be found on page
S of to-day s paper.)
YOUTH SHOT
BY OWN RIFLE
Basil Piper, 17, of East Mid
dlebury, Got Bullet
Through Body
DOCTORS REACHF A
HIM AFTER LOF VIME
Young Man St' Aed as He
Trailed Companions
EPISCOPAL LADIES HAVE SALE.
SUING FOR GUIDANCE.
Railroads Say They Want Right Inter
pretation of Adamson Law.
New York, Nov. 16. Suits filed bv
Attractive List of Articles Pleased Large
Number of Purchasers.
The ladies of the Episcopal church
opened their annual sale in the parlors
of the church yesterday afternoon and
evening under conditions that point to a
very successful two days business. The
crowd measured up to the standard of
what was expected, there was an abun
dance of nice things at all the booths and
tables for the shoppers at the beginning
of the afternoon, but before the evening
was over nearly all the saleswomen were
making preparations to add more etock
for to-dav sale.
The parlors were very tastily decorat
ed with a color scheme of red and blue.
The trimming of the room showed a
great deal of care and no end of work
was given in order to make the booths
appear equally as attractive. There were
booths of several descriptions, fancy
work, randy, apron, domestic and junior,
with the saleswomen at each doing a
rushing business from the time the doors
opened in the afternoon until the closing
hour late in the evening.
The committees at the various booths
were as follows: Junior booth, Mrs. John
Vaughan; apron booth, Mrs. James Giv
en, Mrs. W. C. Bobbins, Mrs. Nicholas H.
Dale and Mrs. George Rivers; candy
booth, Mrs. William Fowler, Mrs. Wil
liam Lillie and Mrs. Thomas Garrity;
domestic booth. Mrs. James Peer, Mrs.
Middlebury, Nov. 16. Basil Piper, the
17-year-old son of Mr. and Mrs. William
Piper of East Middlebury, is dying as
the result of wounds received yesterday
morning when he stumbled while deer
hunting, the riflo he carried discharging.
The ball struck just below the left lung
and came out through the shoulder.
Young Piper, together with Burton
Billings, B. Laque, and Walter Hanners,
all about the same age, went Tuesday
to their shack on the mountain about 12
miles from Middlebury. Yesterday morn
ing they started out, the Piper boy be
ing in the rear. Suddenly his compan
ions heard the discharge of the gun and
rushed back to young Piper, who gasped
that he had shot himself, but did not
know how.
The boys carried him three miles
down the mountain to another shack and
while two of them remained with him a
third ran to the house of Daniel Dragon,
six or seven miles from this village.
From there, Doctors Martin and Pren
tiss were summoned by 'phone and they
went to the shack where the wounded
boy lay. He was finally taken to the
lragon home. It was several hours
from the time he was shot till the time
the doctors could reach him.
MISTAKEN FOR DEER.
Clarence Campbell of Rumford, Me., Was
Killed.
Rumford, Me., Nov. 16. Clarence
Campbell, aged 40, of Rumford was mis
taken for a deer and killed yesterday
while hunting three miles above here by
a man whose identity was not estab
lished at first. Campbell had a wife .
and two children.
ORANGE GOOD DEER FIELD.
Several Bucks Have Been Shot in Moun
tain Region There.
The mountain regions of the town of
Orange appear to be the best hunting
ground hereabouts, judging by the re
ports already at band. Leon Cumings
of Barre brought back a five-pronged,
200-pound buck from the Knox mountain
notch yesterday afternoon, one shot hav
ing brought the animal down. Mr. and-
Mrs. Eugene Tillotson each got a spike-
horn deer on the Orange mountains to
ward the Groton' road. Eugene Hood of
East Barre and George Dobbs of the
same place were also successful in bring
ing down one apiece.
DEER RECORD IN WATERBURY.
Five Animals Have Been Reported to
Game Warden Parcher.
Waterbury, Nov. 16. Game Warden
Parcher has had the following deer kill
ings reported to him: 200-pound buck by
Mitchell Martin of Milton, 150-pound
buck by George Bernell of Waterbury,
Arthur L. Bullock and Mrs. Henry Dale; ,. - d mu.k by Fre(, Grout of Dux.
fans Kwili It A I l-wwl foil - W lra I ' .... . .
fancy booth, Mrs. B. W. Goodfellow, Mrs.
A. F.mslie, Mrs. John Gibb and Miss
Christine Reid.
WILLIAM G. GREENE DEAD.
bury and a 150-pound buck by Walter
Irish of Ihixbury. The first three were
shot in the town of Waterbury and tho
other in Duxbury. In addition, Rufui
Preston shot a 200-pound buck in Dux
bury yesterday morning.
TO TAKE A REST.
Hughes Going with His Family to Lake
wood, N. J.
New York, Nov. 16. Charles E.
1906. He held the post for a year, when
he took the post of ambassador to Austria.
RETIRED TO NEW POSITION.
German and Bulgarian Troops Fall Back,
Berlin Admits.
Berlin, by wireless, Nov. 16. The re
tirement of the German and Bulgarian
troops in Macedonia to new positions
prepared for them in the Cerna reirion
was announced to-day by the war office.
1. I . , C . 1 a f aoih iTTttrvl,.. : Tl.iniiHlipfttl flinili.laln ( ,.r Ilia
1 p -i . -n i i c- ... tv. :i j : liiiil as his L'UC.t. John t Briton, who it . l-l,,.,,! P.uuiii of Jamaica. Ar-
month. -presidency, win icae nrre oaiumay Willi ; iwcaiim-s. ji c huivkus ir kiiauiub i f iiumu
The hotel men will give their answer.his family for I-akewood. x, J., where have a speedy decision on the points at ,". ... ..,,....,r , nnir ,K,r.sei oi n.e r.n ....
on the proposed agreement this after- ihe will rest several weeks, it was an- i-sue. Three separate suits are neces- , " ... ., nna cosis oi n uu..Ko r......
nonnced last nigni. wiiuani K. il cox- sary 10 protect ine inuiviuusi rouos. a ------- - ---.r.. jan-i m w r--
"m i -! i .wi iu , ,av alternoon. lie uc nrujr iiai
He Was Prominent Resident of Franklin
County.
St. Albans, Nov. 16.--William K.
Greene, a former assistant judge of the
Franklin county court and a prominent
Franklin eonntv man. died at 1 o'clock
railroads against the federal government this morning at his home in St. Al
to test the constitutionality of the iMn Town ITe had been in noor health
Adamson eight-hour law also are expect- jfor gomp time but yesterday made a
ed to result in the interpretation of the n,;, -itv and was intending to
statute if it be upheld, the railroad man- 'come again to-day.
agers comprising the national confer-i ji M.H hi wife and two children.
rnci eommittrn nt railwavs. annonni'Ail -t , n... r c ii i
- - -- .iiispdii iiirrL iirn-ne ui f-i. iiijhiih hiiu . - .. . . . . . r. . . . j .
in a statement announced here last nitrht. ' ,...4v. t n , r. : . .i. ! bullet in his icit looi. ite was lanen i
11 i US .wailiut .u. iirriitr ui it;uifjja, nmu
ine siaiemen iohows: , two ei8terR! Mrs. Alvira F. Alexander
"Two questions are involved in the'ami Mr, Louise Htirlbnt. both of Geor-
appeal by the railroads to the courts foripill am a i,rother, Haskell R. Greene,
light on the Adamson law: also of (;eoria. Mr. Greene was born in
"I Is the law constitutional T t- ui t in tain -i ,i..
.miiHiig .juiir in, i("ii wihi run- , , , . , T t- .........
' if it u M,ciiti,t;nal whof Jnu ..... , .i.iiM a friend, Leon Dewey, wer
. .. ...v-. ....... i catea in ine common scnoois 01 jinn . . ,,,, ... ,.i ,." j i.;,. j
it m.in' i r- . ining a .22 calibre revolver, and claunea
it mean: (town and Georgia. For many years he . , ? ,, ... . ., -2 ,. ij..i
"Oninion. W been ernrcssed bv .m.!..: , i : i.V. , j'l.'i.i .... !hat they did not know it was loaded.
" I " "- rt'fUUrU I II IIH." lit LI IT J'ilirr WIIU Itrid iiinny
inent authorities that the law is un- 'offices. He was for two terms an assist
constitutional and there are conflicting ant j,.,),,. f Franklin eonntv court.
GOT BULLET IN FOOT.
Arthur Landon the Victim of a Friend's
Carelessness.
Rutland, Nov. 16. Arthur Landon,
who is a former resident of this city,
but who has driven an R. F. D. route
in the town of Poultney for some time
past, was brought to the city yesterday
by Dr. J. J. Derven ot 1'ouitney, witn
bullet in his left foot. He was taken t
the office of Dr. C. F. Ball, where the bul
let was located by means of an X-ray
examination, and removed.
The accident happened on Tuesday
nicht at Landnn's home. Mr. Landon
ere exam-
DINED AN ANCIENT FRIEND.
opinions as to how the law, if consti
tutional, should be applied. '
"Therefore, the railroads must, as a
matter of duty, ask the courts if the;Harrv Thaw Renewed Acauaintances
law is within the power of Congress It rf jj. H.
is a duty they owe, not alone to the '
owners of these properties, but also the ! Concord. N. H.. Nov. 16. Harry Ken
public that provides the revenues for the ' Thaw last night was a stop-over
pavment of wages. visitor in this city en route to Berlin,
"If the law is declared constitutional it where he will attend the funeral of the
is expected the courts will make clear Molman A. mew. wno, o.inng ine
... .. ... : 1 Tl...... ; ,l.;a
its meaning and the railroads, it is uu- , motrcrranon -
necessary to say, will faithfully follow J was his custodian.
tin instructions of the courts. i "w oin.i-u ... i. 7."'"".' "-""-
"In the bringing of suits throughout'" o clock an,t went immediately to tne
the country the railroads have no Lagle. where ne mei many 01 me irienus
sire to delay action or to resort to tech- "e h'l maae wmie nere ai supper ne
Young Dewey was handling the weapon
when it went off accidentally, the bul
let entering Landon's foot near
the large toe, passing across to the oth
er side and lodging just underneath tha
skin on the very bottom of the foot.
All attempts to locate it without the
aid of an X-ray failed, and the young
man was then brought to this city as
early as possible. He will probably b
laid up for a couple of weeks.
FINED FOR STEALING POTATOES.
Arthur Dorset of Jamaica Had Previous
ly Settled with Owner.
Brattleboro. Nov. 16. Pleading guilty
to the theft of six bushels of potatoes
PARIS GREEN IN SOUP.
Man Made 111 and His Wife Is Put Under
Arrest.
chairman of the Republican national com- ! single suit would protect the dividual ; l01'- iT-
ting paris green in his soup, Mrs. Ps-
Greek and Norwegian Ship Sunk. street, was arrested ye-w-rjay afternoon.
London, Nov. 16. The Gre k steam-The husband. ;iuei';e io!smini, is re-
the Tillage of Pressoire. where they were 'ship Barbara and the Norwegian steam- covering from the effects of the poi'on
able to make progress." ship Lokken are reported sunk. and te able to be about.
"keep in toiich"' with Republican head
quarters here bv visiting the city sev-
Wakeheld, Mas., Sov. 10. l barged eral days a week.
with trying to kill her husband by put
mittce, will accompany Mr. Hughes to 'road only in the particular jurisdiction
Lakewood. j within w hich the test case was brought
Mr. Willeox. however, said be would and would leave all roads subject to
prosecution in other jurisdictions.
PlainEeld People Married.
riainfield, Nov. 16 Roy Arthur Stod
dard and Gertrude Aialea Harding, both
of Plainfield. were married bore yester
day by Rev. L. F. Fortney.
Country.
C. V. FIREMEN ENLISTED.
pant l;awon, ior wihmii o uikihk
I the potatoes. .2. for them and supposed
I that ended the matter.
"The railroads have chosen what seem Herbert Webb and William Forbes Go ; Master John Henry Carrick reached
to be the shortest and most practical Montreal f,u fourth birthday anniversary yester-
method of reaching an early decision and j St. Albans, Nov. 16. Herbert Webh day. ami to help him celebrate this event
in the meantime avoiding a multiplicity jand William Forbes, young , Englishmen ' :jlit of his sni'ill playmates gathered
of prosecution and suits. 'who have been employed as tirenen by it his home at 4! Park street. Games
"The railroads earnestly desire to take 'the Central Vermont' railroad fr f.-i'r.weie played and refreshments of cake, i.
the right road and it is for this rea-jyears, left this momma for Montreal, '.ream and candy were served. His grand
son that they have asked the courts for 1 where they will j,.in Kitchener's Own father. H.r.ry Carrick of Rutland, waa
light to show them the road." regiment, No. 244. aUo present.
