4oto -Sed 6 , 0
[onSe $6 ~THE PICKERS 'SENTIfJUfo,1m
PUBLISHED WEECLJY OFFICIAL PAPEIt OF PICKENS COUNTY SUBSCRIPTOFRO N OLRPRYA
tstablished PICKENS.in S4C6 NOVEMBER 16, 1916
FOR SALE
We will sell to the highest bidder on Salesday in December at
Pi'ckens, which is Monday, December 4, 1916, the home place of
the late J. H. G. McDaniel, just outside the corporate limits of
the town of Pickens.
This place contains twenty-nine acres and includes fine
orchard, good pasture, fine barn and other outbuildings, besides
the magnificent and spacious eleven-room dwelling house. This
will make a nice home and is the very place for a summer board
ing house without making any additions. A fine view of the
mountains and all surrounding country may be had from the
house, which is situated on a beautiful knoll. Is on the main
road leading from Pickens to Liberty. In easy reach of good
schools and churches, and as a location for either a home or
summer boarding house cannot be beat. The land is in a high
state of cultivation and as a farm will pay a handsome dividend.
As an investment it would prove paying. Most everyone
around Pickens is acquainted with this property and its real
worth cannot be described. Anyone interested may come and
thoroughly inspect tiis property.
This is an opportunity which does not come around often and
you may never have another such chance as this., so take ad
vantage of it.
TER1MIS: Half cash, balanc-e in twelve months at 8 per
cent interest.
B. T. and P. P. McDaniel
Administrators.
GOOD VALUES IN
MERCHANDISE!:.
C. D. STRADLEY & CO.
GREENVILLE, S. C.
Gloves Sweaters
White Kid Gloves, $1.25, Children's Sweaters, red,
$1.50, $1.65 and $2.00. navy and white, $1.50.
Black Kid Gloves, $1.25,.
$1.50, $1..65 and $2.00.
Plain black gloves with Ladies' S veaters, red, co
white embroidery.
Plain white gloves with penhagen, navy andwhite,
black embroidered back. $2.50, $2.98, $3.98 to $10.00.
Gray gloves, $2.00,
Nwshades in tan and 'wae ut o hl
$1.25$a.d8$1nd0.2.5e..
All Mail Orders Filled Promptly
IFall Announcement!I
Thrris [House of Better Clothe~sno an
n iounces its readiness to serve its p)atrons +
* with the highest g ra do Ready-for Scr
vice Garments f'or Men, Boys and Little
* Men that the country prIoduIces.
* The Best Makers' H-ats andl the most
Choice Haberdashery can also be found
here. .
: The Best at Any Price.
Your consideration is carnes'tly solicitedl.
Strictly One price and your money back
if' anything g~es wvrong.
~SMITH &BRIthSCaolin
C 3
Pleasant Grove News
Health of our community is excellent
at this writing. Cotton-picking is the
order of the day here and have about
half a crop.
'he election passed off very quietly
here last Tuesday .and out of 55 regis
tered voters only 20 voted, but they
were all Democratic.
Jimmie Phillips of this section paid
his parents near Greenville a visit last
week.
Misses Ida and Eula Fortner, whc
have been spending several days in
Greenville, hav'e returned home.
Mrs. Liana Barker of this community
attended the funeral of her brother-in
law, Alfred Bishop, at Marietta last
week.
Eugene White and Wester Hendricks,
two young men of this section, bid old
Pickens county a long farewell about
two weeks ago and went to Florida; but
after arriving in that part of the world
and looking around they found it was
not like old Pickens county, and last
Monday night they returned here and
declared there is no place like home.
Our school has begun its winter term
with -Prof. G. R. Mayfield in charge.
Prof. Mayfield taught the writer his
A, B, Cs about thirty years ago and it
seems very familiar to see him in the
schoolroom again.
We are getting very anxious to see
our mail on Pickens route 6 made daily
instead of three times a week.
Well, Mr. Editor, if you will come
some night the writer will carry you
'possum hunting, and I am sure if we
don't get a 'possum we will get a skunk.
A FARMER.
(The editor would like the best in the
world to go 'possum hunting with you,
but he doesn't care for any skunks this
winter, thank you. -ED.)
Six Mile News
Health is good in this section, except
for the measles. Mr. Thomas Durham
of this section died from measles Friday,
November 10, and was buried at Six
Mile the next day.
School at the Six Mile academy is pro
gressing fine. The school is glad to
report that it has the largest senior
class in its history, there being nine
boys and two girls in it. The literary
society is doing better work than ever
before. The following program will be
rendered by the society Thanksgiving
evening:
Debate-Resolved, That South Caro
hina Should Have Compulsory School
Law. M. J. Stansell and J. A. Ro.
per will represent the affirmative, whilc
W. H. Guest and J. F. Corbin will rep
resent the negative. Music. Oration by
C. B. Atkinson. Declamation by D.
Mann. Music. Recitation by Essie Mae
Porter. GRAY EYES.
Pumpkintown "Deadhead" Stuff
Did you do any Hallowe'en stunts?
We found ourself face to face with a
real, professed Republican one day last
week. We looked him over good.
Wonder if you heard about those law
suits that got ripe here a week or two
ajgo? They ve had time be r-r-over
ripe now.
B. F. Hendricks left here Friday,
November 2, for Ranger, N. C., where
he will attend a 40-day music school,
taught by H. M. Eagle of Burke's Gar
den, Va. After the school at Ranger
closes he will go to Ripley, Miss., and
attend another session of rof. Eagle's
school. His parents, Mr. and Mrs. W.
D. Hendricks, Sr., and S. B. Edens ac
companied B. F. to Asheville and had a
look at the city. They made the trip in
Mr. Edens' Ford.
.Mr. and Mrs. J. F. Welborn went
sight-seeing to Anderson last week.
They report a good time.
Corn in this section is rather sharp
I mean short.
.Well, dear reader, I guess you're
tired of this chin-music: so I'll quit
talking and go to work. CEDRIC,
Good News
it The Sentinel is glad to announce that
ihas secured a newspaper feature
which will be enjoyed by every one of
its .suqecribers who like to read good
stories. We have secured the rights to
publish ."K,'' one of the most intensely
interesting and mystifying stories ever
written by Mary Roberts Rinehart, the
highest paid woman writer in the world'
This story was published in the Satur
dlay Evening Post this year and proved
so i.mmensely popular that The Sentinel
decided to get it for its readers. We
consider ourselves fortunate in securmng
this remarkable story for you and know
you will appreciate it. '"' is an un
usual title for a story, but this is also
an unusual story'. T'he first chapters
will be published soon. Watch for it.
We have also secured another feature
wvhich will prove of great piensure and
interest to our lady readers. Beginning
next week we will print each week until
Christmas articles telling how to make
useful and appropriate Christmas gifts.
The articies will be illustrated and are
suggestions for pretty things for young
ladies to give their beaus, girl friends
andl grandmother, etc. Every one of
the gifts can be easily made and will
greatly aid you in solving the Chrismas
gift problem. Watch for it next week.
These are only two of the many fea
tures, we give our subscribers, besides
printing more general, state andl Pick
ens county news than any other pap~er.
The Sentinel is the best value for the
money in Pickens county andl no family
in this county should do without it. I
See the Walter A. Wood Disc
Harrows at Pickens Hardware
'& Grocery Company.
The Newspaper Situation
The South Carolina Press Association,
at a meeting held in Columbia Friday
morning, October 27, decided to issue
the following statement:
"To the Advertising Patrons and Read
ers of Newspapers in South Carolina:
"The Press Association of this state
wishes to bring to the attention of the
advertising patrons, readers and friends
of the press the serious situation con
fronting the publishers at this time and
point out some facts thatwe feel should
be communicated to you in our attempt
to meet conditions that have been thrust
upon us. We do this after giving the
matter careful consideration, and find
ing ourselves powerless at this time to
take any other steps whereby the news
papers may be continued, and feeling
that we are acting both for the good of
the patrons and publishers of the papers.
"News paper in the past eight months
has advanced from $43 per ton until at
the present time it is quoted at$130 per
ton and almost unobtainable at that
price, some wholesale paper houses hav
ing none to offer at all and some of the
mills refusing to takeon any new con
tractP. There may be slight excuse or
ample excuse for the advance in prices
on us, but the fact remains that we are
paying from 50 to 500 per cent more for
paper stocks, ink, metal, type and things
that are used in the publishing business
than we were eight months ago.
The only thing that will save the
newspapers of South Carolina is the ad
vancing of advertising and subscription
rates. Some of the larger dailies have
already made advances in both. The
small dailies and weeklies will have to
do likewise or go out of business, and
we ask you, in the linterest of a free
press and the best interests of yourself,
community and state at large, to meet
these advances cheerfully and to co-op
erate in every manner possible.
"Paper-makers insist that there must
be a curtailment of the demand upon
them; that they are working three shifts
a day, and at this season of the year,
when they should be accumulating a re
serve stock, they cannot supply the de
mand. Large publishers are trying to
meet the suggestion of the iaper-mak
ers by cutting down their papers and
economizing, and the commisAion ap
pointed by congress, after investigating
the situation, are alarmed, but so far
have been unable to offer any sugges
tion that will in any way relieve the
matter. Small papers have had no op
portunity to economize, as they only
buy just what they are obliged to use,
and under the existing conditions few
newspapers can exist long unless they
find some immediate remedy, and the
only remedy at this time is an advance
in the rate of both advertising and sub
scriptions, No matter how much a pub
lisher may dislixe to do this, it is his
only salvation if he continues in busi
ness and continues to be of service to
his advertising patrons andsubscribers.
"We have confidence in the patrons of
the various papers throughout South
Carolina and believe that they will
stand by them and co-operate in any
manner possible to keep them goingun
til there can be a readjustment. And
in conclusion we'call on all perons who
believe in the mission of a free press to
co-operate with us in adjusting our
business to these new and uriheai'd of
conditions, so that we can continue to
serve you.
"The South Carolina Press Associa
tion. "
Smith-Barr
A wedding of unusual interest in Eas
ley, on account of the prominence of the
contracting parties, was that of Miss
Sara Smith and Mr. Harold Barr, which
took place in the Easley Presbyterian
church Tuesday, November 7, Rev. C.
D. Waller performing the ceremony.
The bride is a daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
W. Ches Smith, a graduate of Converse
college and a young lady of unasual ac
complishments and fascination. The
bridegroom is a prominent business man
of Easley, being a member of the firm
of Barr Bros. Both have numerous
friends who wish for thenm a long, hap
py and useful life.
Pickens Boy Weds in North
The .following announcement will be
read with much interest in this county,
as the bridegroom is well known here,
being a son of Rev, and Mrs. W. C.
Seaborn of near Pickens:
Mrs. George H. Wright
announces the marriage of her daughter
Harriet Louise Wilkinson
to
Mr. Garland Berte Seaborn
on Sunday, November the fifth
one thousand nine hundred and sixteen
Providence, Rhode Island.
IBagwell-Traynham
Miss Mae Bagwell and Mr. Frank
Traynham were married at the home of
the bride's parents, Mr. andl Mrs. W.L.
Bagwell, at Easley, Sunday afternoon,
November 5. Rev. Eddie Welchel of
Greenville performed the ceremony in
the presence of a few intimate friends
andl relatives. The bridegroom is a son
of Mr. and Mrs. W. M. Traynham of
Dacusville. The happy young couple
have many friends wvho wish for them
all the good things of life.
Bazaar at Mauldin School
A bazaar will be held at Mauldin
school house Saturday, November 18,
from 3 to 9 o'clock, under the auspices
of the Mauldin Hlopne Demonstration
club. In addition to the many beautiful
prizes of fancy work, etc., to be sold
there will be many good thingh served
to eat, among which will be oysters, hot
coffee and cake. Everybody Ia urged to
come. The proceeds wlbeused for
the benefit of the scho.
Local and Personal
Five notices of clerk's sales appear in
The Sentinel today. Read them and
find out what is going to be sold here
next salesday. .
Guy Durham, son of W. H. Durham,. r
one of the senior Clemson boys, spent e
last week-end with the family. of his .
uncle, R. F. Herd.
T. G. Lynch and son Kermit of Crow I
Creek were in town Friday. Kermit is
a namesake of Kermit Roosevelt, son
of our ex-president.
J. W. Hendricks is going to give a
$26 kitchen cabinet to some one of his v
customers soon. Read his new adver- I
tisement in the paper today. t
Our Special Notice Column is espe..
cially interesting this week. If you a
want to buy or sell anything be sure to 8
read it. It may save you some money. _
8,656 bales of cotton were ginned in h
Pickens county this season up to No- n
vember 1. At the same time last year c
8,257 bales had been ginned in this coun
ty.
J
D. W. Cantrell, a good farmer of t
route 3, and son Walter were in town on
business one day last week. While
here they paid The Sentinel a pleasant
visit.
The Keowee Courier says thatGeorge
Matheson, who lives in the mountain
section of Oconee county, made $300 off 9
of three-quarters oi an acre planted in
cabbage this year. al
di
A communication from Joel H. Miller w
was crowded out this week by other G
articles which were already in type -
when his article was received. It will
appear next week. al
pi
Charlie Gantt of Liberty route 3 finish
ed sowing wheat last week. Old Charlie
says he believes in sowing wheat and d
making plenty bread, raise a big crowd C
of boys and stay in bed.
r(
Evans Nicholson, a good farmer and t<
citizen of Liberty route 2, was at the ir
county seat on business Saturday. Mr. si
Nicholson suffered quite a severe and pi
>rotracted case of sickness last year, c
uthas about regained his normalhealth. W
a
B. A. Cassell, a confederate veteran t,
and one of our good subscribers who f
lives on route 5, dropped in our office V
Monday to renew-his subscription and b
tell us he couldn't do without The Sen
tinel. We were glad to have him call.
Mr. and Mrs. W. H. Durham and
children, Estelle and Doyle. spent last
week with the family of Mr. Durham's
brother-in-law, Mr. and Mrs. R. F.
Herd, and other relatives. Mr. Our
ham is manager of the Belton power r
plant near Honea Path. . t
n
Miss Elizabeth Mauldin, home dem- ti
onstration agent, will hold the following p
meetings during the week: A meetin
of the Easley Bread Club will be held
Monday; Thursday a meeting of the Re- I
union Home Demonstration club; Fri
day a meeting of the Oolenoy Bread
club and home Demonstration club.
Business continues good in Pickens.
The people of the surrounding country
are finding out more than ever that it F
pays to buy in Pickens. Pickens mer
chants are not the transient kind, here
today and gone tomorrow, but are here
all the time and they couldn't afford to
treat you other than right even if they
wanted to.
W. T. Bates has soldl the house and a
part of the farm near Pickens which he
purchased about a year ago from Mr.
Robt. Stewart. Thse purchaser is Mr.
Ed Craig of the Keowee side and he ex- V
pects to move to his new home about
January 1st. Mr. Bates will be~ in at
once the erection of a dIwelling house
across the road from the house he just
sold and will move into it as soon as
completed.
Rev. TP..E. Durham of Easley was a
business visitor to Waihalla last Wednes
day. He was accompanied by his moth
er-in-law. Mrs. Emma Whitmire, andl
sister-in-law, Mrs. Wright, of Columbia. "
Mrs. .Wright is now visiting her mother '
andl sister at Easley. Several years ago'
Mr. Durham claimed Miss Hassie Whit- "
mire as a bride. Mr. Durham has been '
in the Baptist ministry several years.
At present he is a senior student at the ei
Six Mile Baptist academy.<
Stephen C. O'Dell. a very pleasant b
genitleman from New York city, who is a~
visiting relatives in the county at pros- i
ent, was a visitor in the cit Tuesday. w
Mr. O'Dell is a brother of senator W' N
T. O'Dell of this county lie has beev' 01
residing in New York for nearly fifty at'
years. lie wvent there in 1867~ from w
Atlanta, Gai., wvhere he was in business 'r,
at the time, lie came to this city with C
his cousin, E. E. Mauldin, at whose tL
home he is stopping at piresent. -Easley w
IProgress.
Claud Hester advertised in last wveek 's
Sentinel for a lost automobile license
number. Monday R. G. Medlin, who 01
livec near Mountain Grove church, was ai
kind enough to bring the number in. B. ni
M. Smith also advertised some corn, <ii
fodder, oats and hay for sale last week vi
and Monday came in to tell us to please at
not advertise the corn any more, as he i
had sold it out as a result of the adver- x<
tisement. The onl~y reason we didn't ,e
find Claud Thomas calf for him last pi
week was because it had fallen in a it
ditch, broken its leg and was dead be- a<
fore the panet came outn-i
SPECIAL ______s
Notlees inserted in this cOlumn for one cent a
ord for first insertion and eite-half cent a word
)r eaich mibeqluent insertion.
A few thousand dollars to loan on
eal estate. McSwain & Craig, Pick
ns, S. C. 28tf
I Ilave a car of block coal which I
m selling at $6.60 per ton, delivered.
'urman Holder, Pickens. 29
For %ale - Good lot of* fodder,
ats and hay at the George A. Ellis old
ome place. ,See B. M. Smith. 29
For Male-Good, gentle horse, will
rork anywhere. A bargain, Call at
'he Sentinel office for more informa
ion. 29
Forty Iollar Edison Phongraph
nd five dollars' worth of records for
ale cheap. Address "Bargain," care
f The Sentinel. 38
For Male-One mule and buggy.
lule, $160, half cash; buggy and har
ess, $75 cash. Wilt sell mule for $150
ish. H. A. Townes, Pickens.
Lost-Between the residence of A.
Boggs and L. C. Thornley a pin con
tining five turquoise sets. Reward of
red for return to The Sentinel office.
29
Lost - Between my residence and
ountain Grove church, October26, one
reen winter laprobe. Finder please re
irn to T. G. Lynch, Crow Creek, and
at reward. 28
For Male-One McCormick reaper
id binder, good as new, only used 18
tys; also pair of good mules, pair
eighing 1700 pounds. Apply to J. S.
ilstrap, Pickens R 2. 29
Wanted-To buy all grades of peas
id cane seed. We pay highest market
-ices. We carry complete stock of
aple - groceries, fruits and produce.
Iholesale only. Warehouses at P. & N.
Ipot, Greenville. Dixie Flour and Grain
Dmpany. -34
Auetlona sale--I will sell at my
sidence in Pickens, November 28, at
n o'clock in the morning, the follow
g articles: Plows, plow stocks, hoes,
iovels, rakes, carpenter tools, cotton
anters, distributors, scythe, cradle,
-oss-cut saw, plow gears, oil stove,
ash-pot, bellows, bookcases, lamps,
Kes, one-horse wagon, saddle-blanket,
Lbles, wa-hstand, icebox, ice cream
reezer, and a lot of* other odds and ends.
fill be sold at auction to the.highest
idders. W. 11. Ashmore, Pickens. 29
4EW RESTAURANT
AND MEAT MARKET
Telephone No. 2
I have just opened in Pickens a new
!staurant and meat market. Every
iing is new, clean, fresh and up-to-date
Id I invite you to call on rne when in
aed of anything in either line. I will
-eat you right, both as to quatlity and
rice. I want your trade.
.D.Bates, Next to Pickens Bank
REPAREDNESS!
ORN__S 1.50
'LOUR 0----.--$12.50
Not Now, But Soon
If you would be prepared you
ad better sow b beraH y of wheat
nid oats. We have a small
mount of seed yet.
Two car's of Flour and Feed
dis wveek. See us for what K
ou need.
Morris & Company,
Old Postoffice Building.
Phone No. 36
Getting The Election News
IV hen. it bee,, nm know, n here 'Thursday- uight
at P'residentt Wilscta hed b~een re-elected for
ire there was no little excitement anid those
he were 'up, town celebraeted~ ini right royal
yhe- lionlires were lighted, bells were runzg
i'i w hist ies blown, anld those who hadi' gone to
ce'P were awa kened to hear the ghtd a idings,
he 'likenis l~rug Co. was headhinns1 ters for
eWIton news andm a large and enthusiasbttit
'owd1 heard the lirst retuirnsa there 'ITuesday
ight. .ll day wIeduesday- a crowd was around
te store anxious to hoar somethintg defilnite,
it the returns were slow coming iii Wednes'.
cy iiight the crowd again gathered t:1 hoar the
test returnsc. but could only bear that Wilson
as teading and that Cnlifornha, Minnesota and
ew Meixitco wouhld deelde the eletion. F'irst
ue ndkdate anmd thcn the other was reported
teed and one time it wias reportedl that theyt')'
ere tied with only New Mexico to hear from.
3iegrams were cent to New York, and Atlaiita
iarlotte, Columibia aiid Greenville were talked
by telejihonie, but the reliorts from eachA plitee
is the came. Ibut Thuiiirsdasy news ('amel which
diented that Wilson was re-elected for sure
ad there wacgreat rejoiicing (anid atlittle mourn
g) in Pickenc.
We traight say here that The Sentiel was the
ily paper coming to Pickens We~dnesday which
mnouncedl that P'resident Wilson was leading
id would lIkely b,0 re-electedl. Wednesday's
tily papors received here rm A tlanta, Green.
lIe, S partanburg, Columbia and Charleston all
mnounced that liughes was elected. Trhe goe.
tel was in the postollee before these 'papers
'hre and announced that the President Was
tding and would likely be re-electd which
oved correct. Sentinel subsoribers who got
elr papers Wednesday got the first and most
curate news of the eletion .printed Ia- South
