' $
FULL LEASED
- WIRE DISPATCHES
p.
$ $ i:
CIRCULATION IS '
OVER 4000 DAILY
. ;
a!
THIRTY-NINTH YEAR NO. 246
SALEM, OREGON, THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1916
PRICE TWO CENTS iSKE55S
FREiElANAlY
AT !M OF
Battling Snow and Storm They
and Sweep Their Enemy Back Are Now Within Four
Miles of die City0n the Somme Allies Make Gains In
Most Desperate Fighting of the War, But Pav Tremend
; ous Price In Men Counter Attacks Fierce
London, Nov. 16. Monastir is almost within reach of
General Serrail's indomitable Franco-Serbian forces after
one of the most astonishing advances recorded in the
great European war.
. Battling against snow and rain over great natural
mountain fortresses, the allied forces have now reached
the plain of Monastir and today's offfcial communique
'from Paris, partially confirmed in the Berlin statement,
indicated sweeping back of, the Bulgarian-Teutonic line,
to a point within four miles of the city of Monastir itself.
Berlin's admission was a brief comment that "pre
pared new positions" in the Cerna sector were occupied.
The new positions achieved by the Franco-Serbian
forces are the result of two separate successive flanking
nipvements. The first involved the wellnigh impossible
7assage, under fire, of the mountains which guard the
bend of the Cerna river, to the east of the Monastir and
thrust westward from these hard-won heights. It was
successful. With practically all of the Cerna banks in
their possession, the allies now are again striking out,
forcing the Teutons back. This is the second abandon
ment of portions of the Monastir plain tacitly admitted
by Berlin. . -' '
The Sofia official statement of today likewise admits a
"return" northward toward Tepawiza and Cigol.
On the) western front flic allies are
sustaining again today the same German
determined counter nttackrtkat have
i "de this battle ground n chaos of fire.
'i a new assault during the night
Iioncli troops succeeded in dislodging
Uermau 'forces which had taken part of
the village of Pressoir.
. The1 weight of the German counter
attack was indicated in the French com
munique, declaring the Teutons threw
th solid weight of the three full di
visions approximately 60,000 men
efjainst the French line.
King George has telegraphed General
Jlnig congratulating him on the great:
Miecess his troops have achieved during
the )nt three days at Ancro. His mes
fine concluded with the declaration
(that "this further capture of the n
':iy's lust line trenches rebounds to
it tip credit of all ranks."
To his sovereign's congratulations,
Hie British commander in chief replied
vitli tlinnks, expressed with spnrtaulike
V-vity.
Cannot Pay the Price.
By Carl W. AckenrJan.
(United Press staff correspondent.)
Berlin, Nor. 10. (Via Sayville wire
less.) (ieneral Von Hindenbtirg is forc
ing the British to pay a toll of lives
entirely disproportionate to their gnins
in the fighting on the Somme front, mil
itary authorities declare. Today ho had
their, line under terrific fire with the
prospect that the enormous caunlties
which they suffered in making their in
itial advance would be repeated
- AH reports from the front say the
Jtiiti.ih nttaek was entirely without re
pn.rd to sacrifice of human life. The
Cerinun troops bitterly defended their
line, despite almost complete destruc
tion of their positions.
: jidvices today from the front say of
Jicets nil ndiuit that by concentration
of enormous stores on a -small front, and
What's become o' th' feller who used
t' say, "Here's a pair o' shoes I've
wrn a year?" Where arc nil th' fat
tfiHs hidin'f
if ' '
Mil
Force Way Over Mountains
launching of a glgrtntic rttac. the en:
rmf could win a few trenches and vil
lage. But these attacks would bo so
costly that they could not be repeated
often enough to make the entire terri
tory w.on worth the prico paid iu men.
Frank admission is made here in Berlin
of British gniua of fortified positions.
But there are so many hundreds of sim
ilar positions, around the 8omme horse
shoe line- thnt these attacks, according
to German officers, can be considered
uncomfortable but not dangerous.
It was pointed out in Berlin today
that four and a half months of limited
success on tho Somme, the British have
been forced to another gigantic cltort
by the restiveness of tho Italians and
growing anxiety in. London over in
creased food prices.
According to n dispatch from Luga
no, Switzerland, to tho Vossisebe Zei
tung, the Jiornale D 'Italia of Rome,
answers criticisms in Komo of England's
prolonging the war not only to crush
Germany, but the allies as well, by re
marking that England is growing rich
by forcing the allies to purchase nil
supplier through London and Liverpool.
The l.okal Anzeigor "features ns its main
article tho resolution introduced in the
British commons by William Ilewins
nsking that tho government organize
food supplies to prevent, danger of in
creasing food prices. This, the editorial
argues, indicates n shortage by the Ger
man submarine cruiser warfare.
German's Mighty Thrust.
London, Nov. 1C An unceasing se
ries of attacks and counter attacks
swept a wnvo of fire and steel across
six miles of the Franco-British front
todny. There it appeared the mightiest
thrust the Germans have yet made in
counter attack, was centering upon that
portion of tho line whrro the British
and French forces joined hands.
General Wr Douglas Haig reported to
day considerable shelliug by the enemy
northwards and southwards of the An
ore during the night. Otherwise he had
nothing new to report.
Meanwhile, along the rest of the CO
mile front there was aJi almost continu
ous grapple. To the north, the Briti-sh
were still smashing forward, consoli
dating their gains and improving their
positions under desperate onscluughts
from the enemy. Southward the
French lines were forced slightly to
give way frow tho tremendous concert
ed pressure ah the very base of the
Angle which recent British and French
gains have thrust into the German lines.
The German gains were insignificant
compared to the prodigal expenditure of
men and ammunition which they ex
pended. Kvery instrument of warfare
in the tierman repertory was called into
operation big gun's, small guns, hand
grenades, bombs dropped from aero
planes, midline guns, poison gas,
"tear" shells mid. the bayonet.
It was General Foch's French troops
that bore the brunt of the day's fight
ing. Within striking distnnce of Chaul
nes, an important center, tho troops
have been threatening an enveloping
movement there for several days.
The very point of the angle thrust in
to the German, liues by the allied Jid
vanoe was aim being sharpened by the
clash of steel against steel and mnn
against man around nillisel and north-
(Continued on page seven.)
Say German Submarine
In Pacific Coast Waters
Seattle, Wash., Nov. 16 Warning has
been issued by the Canadian govern
ment, it was learned here today that a
German submarine is operating off the
Pacific, coast.
The word reached Seattle with the
arrival of the Japanese liner Innba Ma
ra, which changed her course and ex
tinguished all lights after receiving the
wireless. message of warning. She pro
ceeded to the Oregon coast and then
steered north to Victoria within the
three mile limit.
K. Mizutani, director -of the Yamate
Steamship company of Osaka, Japan,
said here today that a German subma
rine might have been shipped to tho
Pacific in parts and then assembled on
some secluded island.
PRESIDENT CAMPBELL HONORED
Washington, Nov. 16. President P.
L. Cnmpbell, of the University of Oro
gon, has been elected vice-president of
the National Educational society. Guy
Potter Benton, president of the Uni
versity of Vermont, is president.
WAR MAY FREE
OF
American Woman Home from
Turkey Tells of Changes
Taking Place
By George Martin
(United pres.; staff corresondeut)
New York, .Nov. 16. War is bringing
the Turkish woman, feminine, mystery
of the ages, out of the harem and from
behind her veil.
I "And when she stands revealed the
world will be astounded at her superior
intellect and progressive spirit," said
Miss Alary Mills Patrick, home from
Constntinoplc, today. Miss Patrick is
president of the Constantinople college
or women.
"Our centuries old curiosity about
the veiled women of the harems, " (she
pronounced it "har-eems") "is about
to oc pratined.
"How they live, ' what they think,
wnat tneir dreams may be is gradually
unfolding in the general upheaval in
Europe todny. And tnese things will
not nt all ue wnat we Americans have
pictured them.
"Our idea that life in n harem is
one continuous debauch could be fur
ther from the truth. The women of
Turkey ns a class are splendid women.
iney are not frivolous nor petty nor
empty minded nor dun.
"The veil and tho secluded life are
no more acceptable to the Turkish wo
man than the' would be to a stenogra
pher in Chicago or a drygoods saleswo
man in San Francisco.
"They do not countenance immoral
ity and tnst living -any more than mil
lions of good women In the United
States and their standards are quite
as nign and nonie as tnose or any wo
men in tne worm.
"These women, particularly ns to
their brain capacity hud self reliance,
are greatly -misunderstood by the men
and women of America. As a class they
possess an unusual degree of intelli
gence and initiative and when they
have fully come into their own the
world w'U be astounded at their high
Btntlon.
300 JITNEY DRIVERS
PULIEDJNP0RII0
They Claim They Have Paid
License to January 14 and
Have Right to Work
Portland, Or., Nov. 16. Fifty two
litney mis operators appeared before
Kdicc Judge Langgufh todav on charg
es of running their machines without
city franchises, In violation of the new
municipal ordinance.
Ail were released on their own re
cognizance, for trial later. A. A. Theilke
president of the Jitneurs Union, says
the cases, will be fought to the highest
courts.
The" iitney men claim that thev have
a right to operate under city licenses,
good until January 14. They say the
city has no right to cancel these li
censes, which have been paid for, six
weeks before they expire, and substi
tute a franchise system.
About .100 Jltny buses appeured on
the sUeets today in violation of the
law. The entire police force and fifty
additional deputies made arrests right
and left, taking every driver in sight
into custody. I here was room at the
station, however, for only S3. They and
their mends .lammed the halls, over
flowing into the streets, and their au
tomobiles, temporarily seized by police,
blocked thoroughfares on all sides of
headquarter,.
KILLED IN GAME
Mexico,- Mo.. Nov. 10. Concussion
from striking the frozen ground when
tackled in a 'football game caused the
death of Hiiara Cole, aged lit, of ('en
trill college, Inst night. Be .was hurt
Monday and never regained consciousness.
PROSPECTS
GOOD
FOR GREATEST OF
Railroads Form Vast Organ
ization to Fight Organized
Labor
$8,000,000,000 BEHIND
"ORGANIZED CAPITAL"
Administration Will Make Ag
gressive Fight for Adam
son Law
Now York, .Nov. Ui.-Prospeets of the
greatest industrial struggle in history
were increasing today.
The capital and labor situation aris
ing from the railroads determination to
fight the Adamson eight-hour law was
accentunted by formation of a vast or
ganization of employers to be known as
the national industrial conference board.
This new body, representing iOOOjOOO,
000 capital and employing 7,000,000 per
sons, proposes that industrial legisla
tion shall be watched more closely, that
legislators shall be guided by public in
formation and that favoritism to labor
shall be eliminated.
It will light such measures as the
Adamson eight-hour law; and it believes
that the election showed there is no
labor vote ami hence legislators here
after need not curry favor with labor
lenders, which it claims has been done
iu tho past. - .
The significance of the new align
ment increased with receipt of word in
United Prees Baltimore dispatches thnt
the brotherhoods will join to force the
eight hour day in. all Industries not by
legislation, but hy the force, of organ
ized labor. .-"''
The railroads kept up their prepara
tions for trying to prevent operation of
the Adamson law. More suits, covering
all lines and all district, will be submit
ted to courts all over the nation in the
next 10 days.
It was apparent in railroad circles to
day that the managers -have virtually
given up hope of coming to terms with
the brotherhood chiefs, although they
said "the lutch string is out for the
men and their representatives." The
managers' conference has adjourned.
Auother meeting may be called next
week, however, it was said today.
One of the leading railroad managers
said today he knows nothing about a
reported conference with the , presi
dent. Labor Leaders Stirerd.
Baltimore, Md., Nov. Hi. News from
New York that capital had formed the
National Industrial Conference board
board to fight labor with its own weap
ons stirred the leaders in the federation
convention here today. President Bnm
uel Gompers said he would discuss the
new capitalist move before the conven
tion the first of next week, when the
rnilroad brotherhood chiefs are here.
"It would be unwise for me to com
ment now," said Gompers. He instruct
ed his secretaries to obtain further in
formation about the new board.
Fiank Morrison, national secretary,
said:
"This movement will result as others
hnve done before. When the National
Association of Manufacturers was form
ed, it resulted in the addition of thou
sands to the ranks of organized labor."
Will Back the Law.
By Robert J. Bender.
(United Press staff correspondent.) .
Washington, Nov. 16. The adminis
tration is ready to start an aggressive
fight in behalf of the Adamson law, now
object of concerted attack by most of
the big railroads of the country, it was
made clear today.
Belief was expressed by high officials
the efforts to enjoin the operation of
the law would fail.
It was suggested that the government
might not confine its efforts to defen
sive tactics, if the hope of the railroads
to prevent the dictation 'of "the law
should appear likely of realization.
If the railroads tie tip the enforce
ment of Xhe Adamson act, the railroad
workers are expected to strike. It is
the view of some of the president's ad
visers that the courts would hold the
railroads responsible for interference
with interstate commerce in vur.h eases
and would compel them to abide by the
provisions of the act. !
This belief is strengthened by the
administration's claim that tho Adam
son law primarily is a measure designed
to obtain a thorough and scientific in
vestigation of facts on which to base
final legislation. It is to be in effect
only six months, during the time of in
vestigation of the application of the
eght-hour day. It can be extended only
.10 days at the request of the specal com
mission appointed under it.
By U'ason of the very nnture of the
act, administration men are convinced,
efforts to enjoin its operation will fail.
On the other hand, it is thought, it
may be possible to enjoin "interfer
ence" bv the railroads with interstate
(Continued on page two.)
INDUSTRIAL FIGHTS
T
DAY 10 BE THE LAV
Labor Leaders Would Accom
plish This Without Aid
of Legislation
DEPLORE MILITARISM
AND SPIRIT IT EVOKES
Resolution to Organize South
ern Negroes Creates Con
siderable Stir
Baltimore, Md., Nov. lC.-7-Lendors of
the four railroad brotherhoods will ad
dress the American Federation of Labor
convention here next week on the eight
hour principle- Their appearance is ex
pected to inaugurate a concerted fight
for the recognition of eight hours as a
working day for all classes of employes.
At the same time the appearance of
the brotherhood leaders Warren S
Stone, ef the engineers; A. B. Unrertson,
of tlie conductors; w. G. Lee, of the
trainmen, and W. H. Carter, of tho fire- j
men is expected to hasten the coalition !
of the brotherhoods with the federa
tion.
Labor leaders hope to force an eight
hour day not through legislation, but
through the power of organized labor.
"Wo aro afraid of legisltaion," n
high federation official, who revealed
the above plan, said. "What is done by
legislation can be undone. We want It
put through an eight hour day principle
by direct negotiations with private em-
plovers, through the force of orgnnized
labor. I
"We want if possible to extend the
eight hour day .to all industries. It ik
undisputed that it makes for .efficiency.
A man can do more and better work in
eight hours, when the results are tabu
lated, than he can in a longer day, At
present the shipbuildings trade com
prising machinists, boilermakors nnd
other anions has no standard day. The
government navy ynrds work its men
eight hours a day. Private shipbuild
ers work their employes nine or 10 or
more hours a day. We are going to try
to obtain recognition of the eight hour
(Continued on page tws.)
TEN THOUSAND
OF
Over Three Hundred , and
Fifty Million Feet Now
Awaits Shipment
Portland, Ore., Nov. 16 One hundred
and twenty-four West Const mills have
orders on their books totaling .'159,159.
860 feet of lumber, delivery of which
is causing grave concern in the indus
try. Of this immense balance of un
shipped lumber, approximately 250,-
700,000 feet, or 10,4L'8 carloads, is for
transcontinental haul. Car shortage,
increasing in severity and no relief in
sight, is the primary cause of the in
dustry's doep concern. Mills arc said
to have partially adjusted themselves
to the war-created shortage in ocean
tonnnge, and in any event the Indus
try is optimistic in its view of wnter
deliveries the balance of the year,
predicting that loadings will be less
than normal, but in sufficient volume
to partially relieve mill stock accumu-
at ions. 1
These facts are gleaned from the week
ly trade barometer of the West Coast
Lumbermen's association, compiled
from information furnished by 124 rep
resentative mills in Oregon and Wash
ington west of the Cascades- The short
age in equipment for reaching eastern
markets, as reflected in the barometer
dws not include delayed delivery of
shingles and wood-working factory pro
ducts suru as sash anil doors. 1 he un
sliiiiix'd balances reported by the asso
ciation refer only to lumber nnd not
the by-products of lumber.
Mil is .Are imrtamng.
Curtailed production is again mark
ed said to have been csused by innbil-
lty of many mills to get cars. At the
L14 mills participating in the trade re
port production totaled fi,2')!l,r)52 feet,
which the association figures to have
been 16.22 per cent below normal for
this season of tho year.
New business for tho week amount
ed to 0S,fl:i2,7sl feet, wliich eastern or
ders make up 50,050,(100 feet; local or
ders and property repairs, (l,0.'s5,9:tS feet.
r.nd cargo orders, J2,54li84.i feet. New-
business tho previous week nt 111 mills
wns approximately 10,000,000 feet I
(Continued on page two.)
EIGH
HOUR
OF IDLE COUNTRY
HER
Bank Robber Killed
In Fight with Detective
St. Paul, Minn., Nov. 16. William
Sandell, age 22, was killed today when
ho attempted to rob the Security State
bank In the residence district. Sandell
entered the bank this afternoon, nut a
revolver to the cashi.Vs face nnd ant
$60. William Oliver, detoctive who has
been staying at the bank constantly
since tne institution was held up and
robbed one afternoon last April, opened
fire on Sandell. Several shots were ex
changed, Oliver escaped uninjured. San-
aeti was instantly killed.
Bank attaches this afternoon identi
fied the dead bandit ns William L. !F.
Sindell age 22, who held them up at
noon March 8 nnd got away with $1,-
1.117 i"
During tho battle between Sindell
and Detective Oliver, Sindell calmly
puffed a half smoked cigar. In death
the bandit's jaw tightly clutched the
half burned cigar. Sindell fired twice
and widely missed Oliver, who used
three bullets. Two of these took effect.
Issues Warning that United
States Must Prepare
for Defense
.Eugene, Ore., Nov. 16. Students of
Oregon university were excited toduy
over senator ueorge Chamberlain's war
warnings, uttered during a speech in be
half of universal military training,
"This nation has too lone been a
joke," said Clinmberlain. "In dealing
witn weaK nations we are strong, and
in dealing with strong nntions we are
weak. Across tho Pacific there is an
unfriendly power. We are letting the
mikado dictate to us. The only protec
tion is to be prepared to fight if we
bavo to."
Chamberlain urged universal, compul
sory military training and the abolition
of the regular army. He said he would
do his utmost to secure passage of such
a law at the next session of congress.
Chamberlain is chairman of the sen
ate committee on military affairs. He
hopes to institute universal military
training at Oregon university very
shortly.
FOOD CONTROL PLAN
Only Criticism Made Is That
Matter Has Been Too
Long Delayed
By Ed L. Keen
(t'nited Press stuff correspondent)
London, Nov. 111. Kuglnnd is n unit
today in (he support of the govern
ment's food dictatorship plan, Not a
newspaper or an individual, apparently
iu the whole I'nitcd Kingdom voiced
criticism of the plan announced in par
liament yesterday by Walter Kunciman,
contemplating conservation of Eng
land's food supply. The only criticisms
heard were that the government con
trol had been over long delayed and
the preliminary plans, as announced
were insufficiently sweeping or drastic.
It is known, however, thnt Kunci
man 's announcement wns purely pre
liminary and that he did not reveal all
the steps of control which the govern
ment has determined upon. The food
dictatorship, it was said, may eventu
ally outdo even the thoroughness of tiie
German system.
.The British people are fully prepared
for the gavrifices which it is realized
will be consequent upon operation of
the new plan. The public is all the
more willing to submit to the hardships
of a controlled food supply in view 01
the thnliing stories ot Jtritisn amy
heroism now reaching here.
It was accepted hero thnt the first
activities of the new dictatorship
would have-to do with limitation on the
use of sugar in costly confectionery, of
indiscriminate fi-eding to animals of
vegetables suitable for human consump
tion and of wasteful use of white flour
and potatoes.
Ketatl food prices, according to semi
official statistics available today, show
that in a vear there has been an in
crease of alMiut 27 per cent. Prices arc
now about 78 per cent higner than tney
were prior to the war. Hut on such
staples as eggs, potatoes, fish and sug-
, tho prices nave nearly dimmed.
INCOME OF SHORT LINE
19 NEABLY TEN MILLIONS
'TIia int tni.nma nf ttiA Orerron fthnrt
I.liiii rlnrintr thtf fiucfll VeAr pudinfF JllllB
30 was $:,91G,SI'7.32, "according to its
annual report filed with tne puniiu
service commission. The operating
revenues totaled 34.l)82,95.t.5, and the
operating expenses, 12,M0,584.15.
Tho Oregon Trunk sustained a iieiicu
of 3(i,87t.29.
Tho south predicts that its cotton crop
this year will return close to a billion
dollars, despite the reductiuu in yield.
51
DF 58 COUNTIES
GIVE WILSON NET
!E OF 479
With No Change in Other
Counties His Lead In
California Is 3.820
HUGHES LEADS BY 302
IN MINNESOTA COUNT
New Mexico for Wilson by
2,039 Count Is Sti
Incomplete
IE
Ban FruncLsco, Nov. 10. President
Wilson's net gain in tho official count
was shown to be 497 this afternoon
when official returns from 51 of Ue
58 counties in California were tabulat
ed by the United Tress.
These 51 counties complete - gave
Hughes 169,047 and Wilson 179,154, a
lead of 10,107 for Wilson. Tho uiwf
ficial returns from the same counties
gave Hughes 16O0Q and Wilson 178,
493. In the seven counties yet to com
plete their official count the total unof
ficial count gave Hughes a plurality of
6,2X7. Deducting this from Wilson's
official lead in the 51 counties already
reported, would indicate a net plurality
for the president of 3,320.
' Hughes' Lead 602.
St. Paul, Minn., Nov. 16. Offkially
counted returns from Laa Qui Parle
county this afternoon boosted tho
Hughes' lead in Minnesota to 302. He-
turns huVA hen nffirintlv iAimtil in '
57 ot 86 eounties. Official tabulation
in Hennepin eounty (Minneapolis), the
state's largest county, although proceed
ing slowly has thus far failed to ma
terially nffoct the result, .
Including the unofficial vote ia Hen
nepin county, Hughes today had 179.
705; Wilson, 179,416.
State and city elections were held ia
Mtniie&nntiit November 7. mntrinfr ii nnn-
sible that the official recount stay, sot
be completed for four days. ;
Wilson's New Mexico Load. -
Albuquerque, N. M , Nov. 16 Official i
returns received by the seesetary of
state's office from Bernatiltow Taoi
and Torrance counties in this state add
135 votes to Hughes' total and 243 to
the Wilson column. ,
With those tn ken into account, tlo
vole today stands: Hughes, 29,737; 'Wil
son, 31,790, a reduction of Wilson's lend
from yesterday's figures of 187 vote. ,
Wilson's plurality ou the face of latest
official aad unofficial returns, with a
few precincts in the state missing, ia
2,039.
Up to California Lead era.
New York, Nov. lti. Republican ad-
mission of Charles K. Hughes' defeat
will depend largely upon what the
California jepatdicau leaders advise aft
er the official count -is complete, Na
tional headquarters indicated todny.
Clinirmaa Willcox for the first time
admitted t but vague charges and sng- .
gestions of fraud in California hod aei
come from lending California republi
cans. He persisted in refusing to out
line what he will do as to conceding de
tent or taking new action after tho
count,
-Sacramento Reports.
Sacramento, Cal., Nov. 10. The of
ficial presidential count for r-aaramen-to
county completed today gives the
highest Wilson elector 14,538 votes and
tho highest Hughes' elector 10,700
votes. There is a difference of 48 be
tween tho highest nnd lowest Wilson
elector, and of 80 votes between the
highest and lowest Hughes' elector. No
errors of moment were discovered a to
tho count.
Irregularities of the election boards
in a number of precincts may result in
an increase of 129 votes for Hughes
should these precincts be thrown out
upon contest by the republicans. One
of the precincts showed more ballots
cast than were on hand.
Denver finds police court cases re
duced 75 per cent in number under
prohibition.
THE WEATHER
Oregon: To
night and Friday
fair, slight tem
perature change;
easterly wiads.
HOPE. THIS f$)
Fort YrfF
