: ? V - - ?' " ??-. '? 'V ? - 5
WEATHER.
Overcast tonight and tomorrow; little
change In temperature; light variable
winds.
Temperature for twenty-four hours end
ing 2 p.m.: Highest, 82. at 1:45 p.m. today;
lowest. 56. at 5 a.m. today.
Full report on page 13.
CLOSING NEW YORK STOCKS PAGE 13.
"From PrmsM to Hornm
Within the Hoar*
9wm Wet
!?!?. Dally A
?Mtk mt Am
TUHi Inlay. 88,711
WASHINGTON, D. C., WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1916.-EIGHTEEN PAGES.
ONE CENT.
PERONNE IN PERIL
AS RESULT OF NEW
DRIVEMMME
French East of Bapaume-Pe
ronne Road, Cut by Them
Yesterday.
COMBLES NOW IS PLACED
IN A DANGEROUS SALIENT
Capture of Bouchavesnes Village in
Night Attack Admitted
by Berlin.
BRITISH HOLDING TO GINCHY
Apparently Making No Effort to
Gain Ground in Conjunction
With the Latest French
Offensive.
LONDON1. September 13, 2:40
p.m.?Instead of resting on the
ground won in yesterday's great
attack north of the Somme, the
French continued their thrust
last night, capturing the village
of Bouchavesnes and a wooded
area nearby. (
Rouchavesnes lies east of the
Eapaume-Peronne road, cut in
yesterday's drive, and its capture
w ith adjacent territory apparently
clinches French possession of this
main highway to Peronne.
Peronne Seriously Threatened.
Combles is now cut off from the south
and in a dangerous Client, while Gen.
Foch iSy in a favorable position for a
troke from the north at Peronne, which
appears seriously threatened by the new
French advance, ope of the most im
portant made in any single operation
since the Somme offensive began.
The British, who hold the lines north
west of Combles, are maintaining a firm
grip on Ginchy, but as yet apparently
have made no attempt to gain further
ground to the east, the war office today
reporting the ^general situation un
changed.
Taken in Night Battle.
PARIS, September 13, noon. ? The
French have captured the village of Bou
chavesnes, on the Somme front.
The official announcement of today says
the village, which is in the region of
Combles, was taken from the Germans
last evening. The French also took by
assault a wood 600 yards east of the road
from Peronne to Bethune.
On the Verdun front the French made
progress in the northern part of the
Vaux-Chapitre wood.
The official statement says:
"North of the Somme fighting con
tinued last evening with distinct suc
cess for our arms. The village of Bou
chavesnes was attacked toward 8
o'clock in the evening and carried in
its entirety by our troops in a brilliant
fight despite the enemy's resistance.
He had strongly entrenched himself.
I>uring the night our infantry organ
ized itself in the conquered position.
The Germans did not attempt a coun
ter attack.
"This morning our troops, continuing
their advance eastward, took by assault
th'* Bois L/Abbe farm, situated 600
meters eastward of the Bethune road,
southeast of Bouchavesnes. We took ]
some additional prisoners during these
actions, and captured a large amount!
of material. No precise figures have
y*t reached us on this subject.
"To the north of Astre a surprise at
tack directed against a German trench
, in the region of Andechy gained us ad
ditional prisoners.
"On the right bank of the Meuse
(Verdun front) we made some progress
in the northern portion of the Vaux
Chapitre wood. Artillery fighting con
tinues with moderate activity in the
Fleury-Le Chenois region. Every
where else the night was calm."
Berlin Admits French Gain.
BERLIN, September 13, by wireless
to Savville.?The capture by the French
of Bouchavesnes. on the, Somme front,
is reported in the official announcement
from the war office today. The state
ment follows:
"Front of Field Marshall Prince Rup
precht of Bavaria?The battle north of
the Somme has recommenced. Our
troops are engaged in heavy fighting
between Combles and the Somme. The
French entered Bouchavesnes. Artil
lery duels of great violence continue
on both sides of the Somme.
"Front of the German crown prince?
Fast of the Meuse <Wrdun front), at
ta< ks made by the Fr*>n<h in the sector
of Thiaumont and Souville failed, caus
ing them sanguinary losses."
CARLSTROM AFTER AIR RECORD
To Fly From Buffalo to Newport
News With Passenger.
NKWFORT NEWS, Va., September
13.?Capt. Thomas S. Baldwin, head of
the Atlantic coast aeronautical station,
announces that Aviator Victor Carl
Btrorn will fly from Buffalo to this
place within the next v*eek in an at
tempt to establish a world cross-coun
try flight record.
Carlstrom will be accompanied by
Alan R. Hawley, president of the Aero
Club of America. The flight will be
made as soori as weather conditions
permit.
In deference to the wishes
of many of its readers, The
Star will not print advertise
ments of intoxicating bev
erages hereafter.
Outlook Gloomy Because Both
Sides Formally Fleject
Intervention Plan.
MAYOR MAY ASK FOR
SESSION OF LEGISLATURE
City's Chief Executive Has Twc
Propositions to End Tie-TJp
if Mediation Fails.
NEW YORK, September 13 ?
The Interborough Rapid Transit
and the New York Railways
Company formally rejected today
the public service commission's
recommendation for a strike set
tlement made yesterday. The
two companies, controlling the
subway, elevated and "green car"
surface lines, declined to hold
further conferences with repre
sentatives of the union and an
nounced that it is their intention
to continue to operate their lines
on the present basis.
Following: the reply of the traction
companies, the strikers, through Wil
liam B. Fitzgerald, general organizer
of the Amalgamated Association of
Electric and Street Railway Employes,
informed the commission that the
strikers could not accede to the request
of the commission to bring the strike
to an immediate conclusion, in view of
! the stand taken by the traction com
panies. He accepted in behalf of the
union the recommendation that the
questions at issue be submitted to ar
bitration.
But few surface cars were operated
today, and passengers were forced to
use the subways and elevated roads.
Although traction officials claim more
trains than normal are in operation,
congestion at express stations was ex
treme. Platforms were crowded, and
many narrow escapes were experienced
by passengers. There was little or no
violence during the night, largely due
I to the fact that policemen were sta
tioned on rooftops where attacks had
been made on elevated trains.
Hugh Frayne, state organizer of the
American Federation of Labor, an
nounced today that between 12,000 and
20,000 men will take part in the parade
and demonstration tomorrow. Although
he declined to discuss the proposed
"sympathetic" strike, other union lead
ers said plans had been made to call out
trades closely allied to the street rail
way men in the event the demonstra
tion tomorrow and the efforts of the
public service commission prove un
availing to settle the trouble.
Has Two Flans to End Strike.
Mayor Mitchel, it developed today,
has under consideration two methods of
| settling the strike. One is to request
Gov. Whitman to call a special session
of the legislature to pass a law com
pelling both sides to accept arbitration,
while the other proposes the immedi
ate granting of a franchise to the New
York Motor Bus Company, Incorporated,
to run machines through certain streets.
This franchise has been before the
board of estimate for the past year.
Refusal by President Shorits of the
Interborough Rapid Transit Company to
consent to a proposal to arbitrate left to
day little hope of settling the street rail
I way strike by that method. Mr. Shonts
' promised to make a formal reply to the
j mayor and the public service commis
' sion later, but issued a statement flatly
refusing to "let outsiders come between
us and our employes."
The formal rejection, presented by
Richard R. Rogers, general counsel to
the two companies, reads:
"The Interborough Rapid Transit
Company respectfully represents to the
commission that it cannot arbitrate its
right to enter into agreement with 10,
306 of its employes out of a tots.l of
11.800 when the employes who fiave
signed are content with those agree
ments and are endeavoring to carry
them out in good faith."
The agreements referred to are the
"master and servant contracts, which
bind the men not to as*k for wage in- I
creases or betterment in working con
ditions for two years. The distribu
tion of the contracts among the In
terborough and "green car" employes
forced the"strike, union leaders claim.
William B. Fitzgerald, one of the
strike leaders, promised that he and his
associates would attend a conference
with the mayor today, when his reply
to the arbitration proposal wodld be
given.
Hoped to Increase Traffic Today.
The mayor's plan was to appoint ar
bitrators to decide whether the con
tractu between the Interborough com
pany and its employee were a violation
of the peace agreement resulting from
a previous strike, and whether the com
pany had used fraud, misrepresentation
or coercion in making these contracts.
The New York Railways Company,
operating the majority of the surface
car lines in Manhattan, hoped today to
increase the number of cars in opera
tion over yesterday, when 278 of its cars
were In service.
Although transportation within the
city is far from paralysed, thousands
a*e compelled to resort to the use of
.Avsmoblles. moving vans, trucks and
oTher vehicles. Policenfen beg rides
from motorists, and are often seen on
the running boards of private cars
Many automobiles have been pressed
into public service, and jokers at the
street corners rouse the ire of drivers
of handsome limousines and touring
cars by calls of "JUney, Jitney!"
BOW AT POLLS IS CHICAGO.
Police Called in Several Wards and
Make Many Arrests.
CHICAGO, September 11.?Police were ]
called to quell disputes at the polls
in several wards at today's primary
election and made a number of ar
rests. A heavy vote was cast in nearly
every republican ward in the city dur
ing the early hours, while the vote in
most of the democratic strongholds
was lighter than expected. Election
officials estimated tnat not more than
325,000 votes would bo oast in Cook
county. '
Farmers Everywhere Demand
ing More Money, Is State
? ment of U. S. Expert.
INVESTIGATION ORDERED
BY BUREAU OF DAIRIES
Situation in New England Particu
larly Acute. Producers Claiming
Profits Are Too Small.
Wherever farmers supply milk for city
consumption the price problem is now
acute, according to W. J. Spillman, chief
of the farm management division of the
Department of Agriculture, who, tomor
row afternoon, will meet with a commit
tee of the Maryland and Virginia Milk
Producers' Association to hear their side
of the case in the agitation started here
last week for an increase in price to the
producers.
Although the situation is new to Wash
ington, Mr. Spillman pointed out this
morning, it is not new to the Department
of Agriculture, which has received in the
last year appeals from milk producers
from all parts of the United States to in
vestigate the matter.
"The farm management division had
already planned all extensive investiga
tion of the question of milk production
before the situation arose here," Mr.
Spillman said. "We want to get at the
facts as to the cost of milk production.
We want to find out jus^ what connec
tion there is between cement floors in
dairies and the quality of milk.
Especially Acute in New England.
"We have several men under consid
eration for this work, and hope to start
it this fall," he continued. "The situa
tion is acute over the whole country.
We have had just as urgent calls from
other sections, especially from New
England."
The investigation is to be started
this fall. Whether or not the investi
gators would begin their work with
the Maryland and Virginia producers
is not known at this time.
Mr. Spillman pointed out that in vari
ous sections farmers have gone out of
the dairy business and gone into truck
farming and the poultry business, be
lieving, either rightly or wrongly, that
they cannot produce milk at a profit
now. Many of them believe, too, that
they are unable to meet the expense of
modem requirements in dairy farming
Mr Spillman and B. H. Rawle, chief
of the dairy division, Agricultural De
partment, will meet the producers*
committee at 3 o'clock tomorrow after
noon.
Association of Producers
to Give Reason for Demand
for Advance in Milk Price
Appealing to the public for lt? very life,
ft is stated, the committee of the Mary
land and Virginia Milk Producers' Asso
ciation will tomorrow afternoon lay bare
the facts on which it bases its claims for
a raise in price of milk to the consumers.
Herman E. Gasch, a member of the
committee, this morning said it is to the
interest of the public to get at the whole
matter, as the milk producers' business
will be destroyed if their price per gallon
is not increased, and If destroyed the pub
lic will have to pay in the Jong run.
"The committee is desirous of going
before the public with a justification of
its proposed action." Mr. Gasch said
"We want the public to know that present
conditions in the milk-producing busi
ness are ruinous. We believe the public
will help the producers. If small pro
ducers are forced to sell their stock the
butchers will get the milk cows, and then
the milk price to the consumer ultimately
will go up."
Regarded as Public Service.
Mr. Gasch said tha^t the members feel
as if they are doing a public service In
plainly and honestly laying their side
of the case before the public and ask
ing Its Justification of their demands.
He said that now some of the milk
producers who are financially strong
are taking care of producers who are
not so strong financially, and that this
situation cannot continue.
"The milk producers want to work
with the local health officials," Mr.
Gasch said. "And we want to work'
and are working, in complete harmony
with the local retail milk dealers. The
retail dealers are sympathetic, too."
He pointed out that a single wagon
of a milk dealer must deliver eighty
gallons of milk a day to consumers "or
that dairy is going on the rocks "
"Eighty gallons of nHlk a day Is
more than the average production of
the'average milk producer," Mr. Gasch
declared.
Strjel and munitions plants are drawing
heavily upon laborers formerly employed
by the milk producers of Maryland and
Virginia. Mr. Gasch pointed out. Men ior
merty secured for $20 and 525 a month
now demand J25 and J30. and-even are
not to be secured at these figures, as the
big plants are now getting all the able
bodied men in Maryland and Virginia.
Act on Legal Advice.
These are some of the facts which will
be presented to officials of the Department
of Agriculture at the meeting to be held
tomorrow afternoon. Mr. Gasch said this
morning that the producers are going to
be advised at every step as to the legality
of their actions and that they do not In
tend to break the law in any way what
soever.
The committee has had expert advice
from outside sources, Mr. Gasch declares
and this, together with its own data, wili
be presented to the Agricultural experts
tomorrow. September 23 the committee
will make a report before a meeting of
the producers' association, at which local
retail milkmen will be present.
REPORT SAYS RUMANIAN
GENERAL WAS DROWNED
BERLIN, September 13, by wireless to
Sayville, N. Y.?According to reports
from Sofia, says an Overseas News
Agency announcement today, Gen. Bes
sarabesku. commander of the recently
captured Rumanian fortress of Tur
tukal, on the Danube, attempted to es
cape in a boat after the fall ot the last
fortification. |
The boat jwas sunk by Bulgarian ar
tilleo^and the general was drowned. I
^SSlftWW,,
FRENCH AIRMEN ARE BUSY
DROPPING BOMBS ON FOE
Paris Reports Numerous Raids
Against Positions Behind Ger
man Lines in France.
PARIS, September 18, 3:33 p.m.?Nu
merous aerial engagements and raids
by French aviators on points behind
the German lines are reported in the
aviation section of today's official state
ment, which says:
"On the Somme front our aeroplanes
fought seventeen engagements yester
day. Two German machines were
brought down, one in the direction of
Aizecourt and the other in the neigh
borhood of Moislains, northward and
northeastward of Peronne. Four other
enemy machines appear to have been
badly damaged.
"Last night our bombarding squad
rons dropped a large number of bombs.
Eighty-seven bombs of 120 millimeters
were dropped on the railroad station
and small buildings at Guiscard, where
two explosions followed by Are were
noticed. *
"Twenty-four bombs were dropped on
the railroad station at Roisel and on
depots at Hendicourt. Seventy-four
bombs were dropped on enemy installa
tions in the region of Etain. thirty-two
in bivouacks in the region of Damvillers
and six shells on Montmedy station.
"During the same night one of our
bombarding groups carried out the fol
lowing operations: One hundred and five
bombs were dropped on Thlonville sta
tion, sixty on the Uckangen iron foun
dries, and during this bombardment one
of our machines covered the distance to
the scene of the operations twice. Six
bombs were dropped on iron foundries
at Rombaoh and six on the railroad from
Metz to Pont-a-Mousson."
WANTS FEWER WOMEN.
Secretary of Phi Beta Kappa Fra
ternity Urges Curtailment.
PHILADELPHIA, September 13.?Rec
ommendation that measures be taken to
curtail the yearly admission of women
to membership in the Phi Beta Kappa
are made in the report of the secretary.
Rev. Oscar M. Voorhees, submitted to
the triennial council of the society here.
The recommendation, the report said, was
based upon the fact that of those ad
mitted to membership in the last few
years about one-half were women.
"The reputation of the society," said
the report, "will rest, in years to come,
upon the work of those whom we now are
electing to membership. It will be gen
erally conceded, I think, that a larger
share of its reputation must come from
its man than from its woman members."
The report was placed in the hands of a
committee and will be acted upon by the
council later.
More than 300 delegates, representing
colleges and universities in all sections of
the country, are in attendance at the
council. The meetings are being held at
the University of Pennsylvania.
M0T0E CYCLE 4,000 MILES.
Two New York Girls Arrive in San
Diego.
SAN DIEGO, Cal., September 13.-?
After a motor cycle trip of more, than
4,000 miles Misses Adellna and Aiitgusta
Van Buren have arrived here from New
York, from where they started July &.
They will make the return trip by train.
The two motor cyclists traveled via
Buffalo, Chicago, Omaha and Denver to
Colorado Springs, where they climbed
Pike'6 Peak on their machines, a feat
never before accomplished by women,
it is said. Their route carried them on
to Glen wood Springs and Salt Lake City
and across the great American desert.
They were on the desert eleven days.
To Replace Collapsed Span.
OTTAWA. Ontario, September IS The
St. Lawrence Bridge Company has noti
fied the Canadian government that It ac
cepts full responsibility for the fall of the
Quebec bridge span, and gave notice that
it would undertake to replace the span
and complete the bridge as soon as pos
sible. With steel scarce It Is believed It
will take two yean to construct a new
span. _
X
King Constantine Accepts
Resignations of Premier and
the Entire Cabinet.
CRISIS AT ATHENS CAME
AS COMPLETE SURPRISE
Having Support of Venizelos Fac
tion, Ministry Was Not Expected
to Give TTp Office.
ATHENS, September 12, via
London, September 13.?King
Constantine has accepted the
resignation of Premier Zaimis and
1 his cabinet. v
Several members of the cabinet
called at the palace this morn
ing and insisted that it was im
possible for the ministry to re
main in power.
Think It Means War.
The belief is ^ntertained in the en
tente capitals that the retirement of
the Zaimis ministry is preliminary to
the entrance of Greece in the war
with the allies. Recent dispatches from
Berlin and Vienna show that there,
also, it is regarded as probable Greece
will soon abandon neutrality and join
the entente powers.
The precise causes whjph led to the
resignation of the ministry have not
been disclosed, on account of the ex
ceptionally rigid censorship. A Lon
I don dispatch yesterday said M. Zaimis
had complained that internal incidents
were preventing him from dealing with
1 the external situation. It tfi believed
in London that his resignation was due
to the fact that he accepted the pre
miership on the understanding that he
J was to maintain neutrality, and, in
view of the Bulgarian occupation of
Greek territory, had found this impos
sible.
Resignation a Surprise.
Up to the time of the first dispatches
announcing that -M. Zaimis had pre
sented his resignation, 1 his retirement
was unexpected, for it was understood
the premier had assumed dictatorial
powers, and was in an exceptionally
strong position. Political affairs
reached a crisis after the Bulgarians
invaded northeastern Greece, and the
followers of fdrmer Premier Venizelos
served warning on King Constantine
that he must abandon the advisers who,
it was said, had misled him and In
fluenced him in favor of Germany. At
the same time M. Venizelos expressed
confidence in M. Zaimis, Arl\om he asked j
the king to support, and it was under- '
stood an agreement had been reached
under which the Zaimis ministry was
to continue in power with the strong
support of the Venizelos party.
After the fall of the Venizelos cabinet
last October on account of the king's
disagreement with its policy favoring
intervention in the war with the allies,
M. Zaimis was called on to form a
cabinet. He announced a policy of
armed neutr^Jity. The cabinet resigned
in November, but in June M. Zaimis
was again placed at the head of the
government. Although acknowledging
neutrality, he was regarded as having
a predisposition toward, the entente.
Infantile Paralysis Decreases.
NEW YORK. September IS.?There was
a decided decrease in the epidemic of in
fantile paralysis during the twenty-four
hours ending at 10 a.m. today. There
were only nTne deaths, one-half of yes
terday's toU,' and . thirty-one new cases,
?even fewer than yesterday.
DIPLOMAT IS COMPELLED
TO CROSS OCEAN THRJCE
Dr. Krum Heller of Mexico Finally
Beaches Switzerland After In
terferences From British.
BERLIN, September 13. by wireless to
Sayvllle.?Dr. Krum Heller, a Mexican
diplomatist with proper credentials, was
compelled by the British to cross the At
lantic three times before proceeding to
Switzerland, according to the Overseas j
News Agency. Dr. Heller, who holds a
colonel's commission in the constitution
alist army, was sent by Gen. Carranza,
the news agency says, to express Mex
ico's thanks for Switzerland's recognition
of the Carranza government. He is quoted
as having sa;d to a representative of the
Tageblatt of Bern, Switzerland, that he
started from New York four months ago,
having obtained from the American gov
ernment an official certificate of his iden
tity, in addition to his official Mexican
'^According to this account, a British
agent attempted to search Dr. HeUer's
baggage on the steamer In New ^ork
harbor, and on being prevented tore
the seal on Dr. Heller's letter from the
I American government. The steamer
was taken to the Orkneys, where Dr.
Heller is said to have been detained
several weeks, it being represented
that he was carrying messages from
the United States to Germany. He was
then sent to Scotland yard, the news
agency says, and finally back to New
York, whence he proceeded to Switzer
land by way of Spain and France.
ENVOY TO ITALY AT FRONT.
Ambassador Page Is Accompanied
by Military Attache Heiberg.
UNDINE. Italy. September 13, 11:10
a.m.?Thomas Nelson Page, the Ameri
can ambassador, arrived here today for
his visit to the Austro-Italian front. He
was accompanied by Capt. Elvin R. Hei
berg, military attache, and Lieut. Com
mander Charles Russell Train, naval at
tache of the embassy. They were re
ceived by both the military and civil au
thorities and will be guests of the su
preme command of the Italian army while
they remain at the front, which will be
about a week. ,
GRADE CROSSING TRAGEDY.
Three Women and Man Killed When
Trolley Hits Auto.
ATLANTIC CITY, N. J-. September
13, Three women and a man were
killed and two women severely injured
last night at Ocean Heights, near here,
when the automobile of Morrell Inger
soll of Steelmanville, N. J., collided
with a trolley car at a grade crossing
and was Jammed into a freight station.
The three women who were killed
were all residents of Bayonne, N. J.
They are Mrs. Eugene Killian. Mrs.?
Samuel Hay and Mrs. Belli Bennett.
Mr. Ingersoll, who was operating the
automobile, was the fourth victim. The
injured women were Mrs. W. H. Davis
of Bayonhe and Mrs. Margaret Wolf of
West Collingwood. N. J.
Mr Ingersoll was taking the five
women from their hotel in Ocean
Heights to the trolley car station in
Somers Point. He did not see the ap
proaching trolley car until it was too
late to stop his machine.
Another "Accident in Lake Tnnnel.
CLEVELAND, Ohio, September 13.?
One man was fatally injured and sixteen
others hurt when the roof of a water tun
nel being dug under the floor of Lake
Erie caved in early today. It was in
another section of the same tunnel that
nineteen men were killed by a gas ex
plosion several weeks ago.
Jndge Dennis of Baltimore Dead.
BALTIMORE. September 1J.?Judge
John Upshur Dennis, for many years
member of the supreme bench of Balti
more city, died last evening. Judge Den
nis was aa prominent la Masonic circles
as ha was In legal and judicial circles.
He leaves a son, John Murdoch Deanlii I
and a daughter, Dora LOulM Dennis. I
Assisted by French Troops,
They Have Captured the
Town of Sorovitz.
ITALIAN FORCES FIGHTING
I ON STRUMA RIVER FRONT
Bucharest Reports That Retreat of
Austrian* in Transylvania
Is Continued.
ATHENS, Greece, September
13, via London, 1:3s p.m.?French
and Serbian troops have taken the
offensive on the western end of
the Macedonian front. They have
captured the town of Sorovitz,
near Fiorina.
Oround Gained by Sferbs.
PARIS. September 13, 12:10 p.m.?Not
withstanding the stout resistance of
the Teutonic allies, the Serbian troops
on the Macedonian front have made
important progress at various points, it 1
is aiyiounced by the war office.
Violent fighting is in progress In the
vicinity of Lake Ostrovo,* where the
Serbians have gained considerable
ground. , *
Italian troops are in action on this front
in the Struma region, the official an
nouncement discloses.
Austrian Retreat Continues.
BUCHAREST. September 12, via Lon
don, September 13.?The continued re
treat of the .AjUStrians in Transylvania
is reported in an official announcement
issued by the war office today. The
text of the statement follows.
?'On the north and northwest front
the ^nemy continues to retrc'at west
ward in the valleys of the upijer Maros
and Aluta rivers.
"On the south front the navigation of
enemy merchant ships on the Danube
has been stopped. On the Dobrudja
front operations are progressing.
"Enemy aeroplanes bombarded the
towns of Piatra and Neamtsu,^ killing
an old man and seriously wounding two
infants."
Germans Fighting- Rumanians.
BERLIN, September 13. via London.?
An official statement from army head
quarters today says:
"In Transsylvania German troops en
tered into fighting contact with Rumar
nians in the districts of Hermannstadt
and southeast of Hoetsing.
! "The operations in Dobruja ("eastern
j Rumania) are going on methodically.
"On the Macedonian front there is no
change."
PRESENT ON WAY TO
SUMMER WHITE HOUSE
Leaves New London Aboard the
Mayflower?His Sister's Condi
tion Practically Unchanged.,
NEW LONDON. Conn.. September 13.
?The naval yacht ' Mayflower, with
President Wilson aboard, steamed out
of the harbor at 6 o'clock this morning.
The Mayflower will take the President
to Sandy Hook, where an automobile
will be waiting to take him to the sum
mer White House at Long Branch, N. J.
He expected to arrive at Long Branch
about 5 o'clock this afternoon.
The President decided to leave New
London last night after physicians at
tending his sister, Mrs. Anne E. Howe,
whose critical illness brought the Presi
dent here, had advised him that from
now on MrpfHowe would be constantly
under the influence of opiates and would
be, unable to recognize him, and that
she might live for several days.
Keeping Informed by Wireless. "
The President left directions here
that during his journey to Sandy Hook
he be kept infornjed of his sister's con
dition by wireless. Should there be a
sudden turn for the worse he plans to
return.
While there was no marked change
overnight i*? Mrs. Howe's condition,
she is gradually growing weaker, it
was said today. ?
The President did not come ashore
before leaving this morning, but re
ceived word that Mrs. Howe's condition
was about the same. Joseph Wilson of
Baltimore, his brother, and Miss Mar
garet Wilson,* his daughter, remained
here, but joined with the attending
physicians in urging the President to
leave.
Official Business Accumulates.
The President has an accumulation of
official business awaiting him at Shad
ow Lawn, and in order to attend to it
he probably will go to the executive
offices at Asbury Park, N. J., tomorrow.
Secretary Tumulty has not bothered
him with business since he came here.
Up to the present Mr. Wilson has
paid practically no attention to his
campaign for reelection, but unless he
is summoned back here within the next
few days he will hold several political
Conferences later this week. Both Vance
McCormick, chairman of the democratic
national committee, and Homer S. Cura
mings, vice chairman, are very anxious
to consult him about plans for the
campaign.
Repulse of Italians Claimed.
VIENNA, September 12. via border.
September IS.?The following official
report regarding the Italian front was
made, today:
"Between the Adtge and Astlco val
leys repeated enemy attacks from
Monte Spil to Monte Ma|o were every
where repulsed with considerable
losses. In the coast region the artil
lery fire became-more Intense on the
Carso .plateau." _
Proposals for $11,000,000
Government Concern Heard
by Secretary Daniels.
CAPITAL'S ADVANTAGES
ARE CITED AT LENGTH
T. Moran Points Out How 140
Acre Anacostia River Site
May Be Utilized.
Delegations from Washington
and nearly all of the principal
cities of the east and sopth gath
ered at the Navy Department to
day to urge the advantages ft
sites offered for the $11,000,000
government armor plate plant au
thorized in the new naval appro
priation bill. More than 300 men
were on hand when Secretary
Daniels began his hearings, most
of the delegations being headed
by senators and representatives
in Congress.
Chief among the claims to be heard
were those of Washington. D. C.; New
York. Brooklyn. Baltimore, Philadelphia..
Pittsburgh. Richmond. Norfolk. Birming
ham. Raleigh and many other smaller
municipalities.
Senator Chilton headed a delegation
from Huntington, W. Va.; Senator Un
derwood and members of the Alabama
congressional contingent led others from
Birmingham. Gadsden and Tuscaloosa;
Senator Swanaon and Representative Car
lin of Virginia headed those from Nor
folk. Richmond. Petersburg. Hopewell and
Alexandria: Senator James and Repre
sentative Barkley of Kentucky headed
Wlckliffe. Paducah. Middlesboro and Ca
diz delegations. North Carolina was rep
resented by Fayettevllle. Rsleigh and
Aberdeen delegations. More than a hun
dred other cities which were not> repre
sented had tiled briefs setting forth their
claims for the site.
In order to expedite the hearing it was
announced that the states would be heard
In alphabetical order. Alabama being the
first calted.
Cities Heard From.
Cities from which either correspondent*,
briefs or delegations had been received to
day by the Navy Department follow h*
states:
Alabama?Tuaealooaa, Mobile, Birmingham,
Gadsden. ,
Connecticut?Hew Harm, Hartford.
Georgia?Savannah. .
Illinois?Chicago, I?m*X, Metropolis.
Indiana?Jefferaonrille. La Porte, Mlehljn
City. Eranavtlle. Gary.
Iowa?Newton. _ _. .
Kentucky?Fort Thomas. Mount Vernon, Wlck
liffe Dover, Louisville, Middlewboro.
Maryland?Baltimore. Annapolis, Barclay.
Massachusetts?Dalton.
Michigan?Saginaw, Houghton. Traverse City,
Menominee, Manistique, New Buffalo. Nilea.
Missouri?St. tools.
New Jersey?Park Ridge. Camden, Phillips
New Mexico?Corona, Jicarilla.
New York?New York city. Fulton, Brooklys.
Breaker Island. Troy. New Brightoff. Port Rich
mond. Buffalo. Albany. Watervliet. Jamaica.
North Carolina?Newton. <;s?t?nia. Fayatte
ville. Asherille. Southport. Brevard. Wilmington.
Ohio?Ashtabula. Toledo. Lafcewood. BteoMn
ville. Port Chilton. Conneaut, Fairport Harbor,
Cincinnati, Youngstown. Cleveland. Sandusky,
Massillon. Columbus, Canton, Oberlin, Huron.
Oklahoma?Tulsa.
Pennsylvania?Newcastle. Chester. Pitt*burgh.
, Philadelphia, Oil City, Slatington. Berwick, Sun
bury. Allentown. Bridgeport. Erie. Coateaville,
Columbia. Girard, Sandy Lake, Scootdale, New
Cumberland. Emerald. Carnegie.
Rhode Island?Providence.
Tennessee?Eliaabethto?. Bristol.
Texas?Beaumont, Orange, Port Arthur, At
lanta.
Virginia?Richmond, Newport News, Tye Riv
er. Portsmouth. Buena Vista. Brlstow. Basic.
West Point, Norfolk, Petersburg. Hopewell,
Alexsndria.
West Virginia?Wellsburg, Wheeling, Hunting
ton.
Briefs, plats, photographs and other
data were submitted for consideration by
the navy general board, which must final
ly approve the site.
Cites Washington's Advantages.
Washington's advantages were pointed
out m an address by P. T. Moran. presi
dent of tlta local Chamber of Commerce,
who was accompanied by J. M. Chamber
lain of the local Board of Trade. Joseph
I. Weller and Thomas Grant, secretary of
the Chamber of Commerce. They ad
vocated the location of the big armor
(making plant on the territory bounded by
3d street west. 2d street east, the James
Creek canal and the Anacostia river. In
cluding all that section known as Buz
zards Point.
Mr. Moran explained that the site sug
gested has a total area of 6,058,000 square
feet, or nearly 140 acres, of which only
3 339 0O0 square feet, or about seventy
acres will have to be acquired, the re
mainder being property in fee simple of
the I'nited States. The Improvements
on the land are comparatively few and In
expensive. All of the lajid necessary to
be acquired from private interests by
the I'nited States, together with existing
improvements thereon. Mr. Mom said,
can be had for not exceeding J7fck,9a0, and
he Invited an investigation and consider
ation of that location.
Has Water Frontage.
"Strictly speaking," said Mr. Moran.
"the entire boundary of the property
is. except on its northern face,-water
frontage. Its permanent water front
footage depends only on the length of
the James creek, which may be deter
mined properly to be retained for
water frontage and the length which
will be filled to form a better connec
tion with the property of the United
States in the Washington arsenal.
"On the Eastern branch a perma
nently improved channel at or greater
than its present depth is assured, being
more water at this point than at points
Hi the main channel of the Potomac.
Lo that the largest vessels that can
navigate the river will find an ample
Sockage at any point on the Eastern
br^The Tmp'roveme'nt of the Eastern
hmnch at an authorised cost of 13,000,
noo of which over a million already
v ?' hppn spent, provides not only an
a ?ftu ranee of a permanent depth ot
assurance de?ee stated, but aanl
Ury surroundings of a perfection to
lov nothing of esthetic effect, which
nnt hi! matched?and the statement
f* not at aH overdrawn-by the condi
tions of any river frontage In the
United States. -
Advantage In Emergency.
"The advantage to the government ef
this water terminal In case of
gency can hardly be orenUUt
the acquisition of this pnmAt
N>
