MARKETS
WEATHER
Arizona: .Wednesday
and Friday, generally
fair.
NEW YORK CITY
Average price of cop
per for week ending
Sept 6, 27.075.
Associated Press Special Leased Wire Service.
VOL. 19. NO. 93.
BI&BEE, ARIZONA, WEDNESDAY MORNING, SEPTEMBER 13, 1916.
E HVE CENTS
VNOziav
ICfJOIjJu.' U
IKON GIVES
CONFEREES
PLAN FOR
MEXICO
President Leaves Sisiter's Bed
side and Pays Complimentary
Call on Mexican-American
Commission. i
MEXICANS MUST
PROTECT AMERICANS
Regeneration of Battle-Torn Re
public Must Come From With
in, He Says, Sympathinziing
With Them.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
NEW LONDON. Sept. 12 President
Wilson decided tonight, to return to
his summer home. Shadow Lawn, Long
Branch, N. J., tomorrow morning. He
was advised by physicians attending
his sister, Mrs. Anne Howe, who is
critically ill here and constantly un
der the influence of opiates, that she
might linger in her present condition
for several days.
The President, it was announced,
plans to return here if there Is a
definite turn tor the worse in Mrs.
Howe's condition.
NEW LONDON. Sept. 12 President
Wilson lent his personal touch today
to aid the efforts of the American
Mexican joint commission in seeking
a permanent foundation of sympathy
and understanding upon which may
rest the future relations of the United
States and Mexico.
Impresses Mexicans.;
Putting aside for one hour his own
cares and his vigil at the bedside of
his sister, who is dying here, Mr. Wil
son exchanged calls with General
Carranza's representatives. It was
the first time during his administra
tion that the executive had dealt per
sonally with a representative of the
Mexican de facto government and the
significance of this fact was not lost
upon either the American or Mexican
commissioners.
Follows Situation Closely.
The President went directly to the
subject of the Mexican revolution. He
was, he said, more familiar than his
hearers perhaps realized with the
fundamental principles of the strug
gle for free government. He assured
them of his deep sympathy with those
aims, adding that all right thinking
men" must sympathize with such high
asnirations.
During the conversation Mr. Wilson
indicated his comprehension of the
great problems, political, economical
and social, which Mexico Is facing. In
this connection he said that regenera
tion must come from within and that
development must be parallel In all
three lines.
Must Respect Americans.
Mr. Wilson laid great stress, it
was learned, on the point as to
the present conference on which
Lansina and Secretary Lane cen
tered their remarks at the first
meeting of the commission in
New York protection of Ameri
can lives and property in Mex
ico. The President said he hoped the
rommfssion would be successful in
finding a solution for the problems
which would Insure the security of
Americans, not only along the border
but in any part of Mexico.
General Bliss, assistant chief of
staff tf the army, who has been sum
moned by Secretary Lane for a con
ference with the American commis
sioners, is expected to arrive here to
morrow. It Is regarded as likely that
the commission will aeain discuss the
border situation after his opinions and
Information have been obtained.
DUPONTS GET ENORMOUS
CONTRACT FOR POWDER
WILMINGTON, Del.. Sept. 12. An
nouncement was made by the E. T.
Dupont de Nemours & Company today
that contracts had been closed In New
York for large amounts of smokeless
powder. The officials of the company j
refused to give out any figures or say
whom the contracts are with. It is
understood, however, that they are
the lareest received by the company
for some months, totalling from 50.
000.000 to 150.000,000 pounds and that
thev are probably for the allies. It
was announced that the contracts are
larre enough to keep tie powder plant
and the gun-cotton factory at Hope
well, Va.. running full capacity for
some time.
y
MONTANA SALOONIST
GREETS "DRY" SPEAKERS
KALI SPELL, Mont.. Sept. 12.
Montana gave the Prohibition
coast to coast campaigners gVod
, receptions today in all of the
cities they visited. Only four
meetings, those at Havre, Colum-
bia Falls, Somers and here, were
regularly scheduled, but such a
large crowd met the train at
Cutbank that an additional meet-
was held. Included in this gath-
ering we re all of the school tots.
Prohibitionists, the speakers
insisted, have stood tor suffrage
as a principle since 1873 while
the Republicans and Democrats
have adopted it only recently.
Four saloons flanked the band
stand in which the campaigners
spoke at Havre today, and much
of the applause came from the
door of one of them. H. C. Sel-
vage, a Columbia Falls saloon is t,
was a member taf the reception
committee that met the speakers
here today. The state votes on
the question of state-wide pro-
hibltion this fall.
"Democrats Have Been in Four
Years and it Costs no Less,"
Whimpers Ex-Justice at
Plattsburg.
(By Review Leas: J Wire)
PLATTSBURG, N. Y., Sept. 12.
Charles E. Hughes In the last speech
of his first presidential campaign trip
here tonight before a crowd that filled
the opera house to overflowing, said
the Republican party was reunited.
He declared the party would "not
change its plans or aims."
"'I come to you," Mr. Hughes said,
"as the spokesman of a reunited Re
publican party. We have hoped it was
reunited. Maine proves that it is re
united. Who ever was skeptical alAiut
that before must hide his cynicism
now. We shall abandon no efforts."
He assailed the Wilson administra
tion for failure to reduce the cost of
living, for extravagance, for failure to
protect American lives and rights
abroad, and for failure to "live up to
its pi'jmise to observe the merit sys
tem." The nominee emphasized his
declarations that his campaign was
"a good natured one."
"Our friends on the other side said
that the Republican party was re
sponsible for the high cost of living.
They have been in power for some
time and I do not see that the high
cost of living has been lowered."
Earlier in the day the nominee vis
ited the military training camp here,
remaiuing tor dinner with M.-.jor Gen
eral Leonard Wood. Tonight Mr.
Hughes praised the camp in his
speech. "It is a training camp in
democracy," he said, "it is discipline
that knits men together in wholesome
comradship.
"That is the spirit we must have in
this country if America is to go for
ward. "I desire to see these camps main
tained in various parts of our land and
men in constantly increasing numbers
seeking the benefit of the training and
discipline. I believe that our citizens
sh'ould be trained under federal author
ity. I think it was a great mistake
to abandon the plan that was first for
mulated with that end in view."
Mr. JIughes left Plattsburg , for New
York tonight He will remain there
until tomorrow afternoon when he
will go to his summer home at Bridge
hampton, to remain there until Sep
tember 17 or 18, when he starts his
second campaign trip.
TRIED FOR TRAIN ROBBERY
IN WEST VIRGINIA
MARTINSBURO. W. Va.. Sept. 12.
Jeff Harrison, charged with having
been the head of a gang of bandits
which held up a passenger train onl
the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad at
Central Station, W. Va., last October
and escaped with $102,000 in unsigned
bank notes, was placed on trial in the
United States district court here to
day. He pleaded not guilty. Among
the exhibits introduced in court was
$28,000 in unsigned bank notes which
the prosecution avers was found when
Harrison was arrested in San Antonio.
Texas, after t.'ie robbery. Implicated
with Harrison are his brother Rich
ard, and Eugene Dies. The last named,
according to federal authorities con
fessed after being arrested in Den
ver, Colorado, that he took part In the
hold up.
HUGHES MALIGNS
WILSON FOR
HIGH COST
OF LUG
JAPAN TELLS
AMERICA OF
nee OMR
ULUIUI1 UN
CHINA
Rushes to Explain U. S. Inter-1
ests Not Violated, But Wash
ington
tions.
Is Skeptical of Inten-
U.
S. GOVERNMENT
GREATLY DISTURBED
May Not Accept Tokio's Clever
Alibi. Mikado's Empire Frank
ly Suspected of Inciting Trou
ble in China.
(By Review Leased Wire)
WASHINGTON, Sept. 12. The Jap-
anese government has informed the
United States that while it has made
demands on China in connection with
the recent clash at Cheng Chiatung,
there is nothing in the reported in
fringing on the interests of the United
States violating the open door, or the
Root-Takahi agreement.
U. S. Suspicious
Whether the Washington govern
ment will accept these assurances as
conclusive depends on the interpreta-
j tion which Japan places on her de
mands with China. Officials here are
uncertain as to Japan's real inten
tions, though it was revealed today
in an inquiry on the subject there
was evidence that the Japanese had
greatly disturbed the American gov
ernment. Hidden M tive, Belief
Ambassador Gothrie confirmed the
demands printed in this country as
"approximately true." Officials would
not add to the state department's an
nouncement summarizing the reports
but there was every Indication that
developments would be anxiously
watched. It was pointed out that so
far as the negotiations were In a pre
liminary and indefinite stage. The
Japanese demands, as outlined to Am
bassador Guthrie by the foreign min
ister, seek apology, indemnification
and installation of Japanese military
advisors to southern Manchuria and
eastern Mongolia, and In the .. cadet
school at Mukden, together with Jap
anese police in those sections' where
there are large Japanese colonies.
Jap Army Premature
It is not the mere terms of the Jap
anese demands, however, which have
been well established throughout, so
much as their real purpose that Is so
anxiously regarded here for th re
crudescense of Mongolian banditry in
conjunction with a monarchist revo
lution has, it is claimed, produced a
condition of outlawry where Japanese
lives are endangered.
Officials are said to be willing to
admit that Japan is as much justified
in placing troops in these sections as
is the United States in having troops
in Mexico. If, on the other hand. It
develops th.t .Japan is magnifying a
small local disturbance into an inter
national complication to exact politi
cal concessions, the United States has
cause to object, holding that the in
tegrity of China is being invaded.
In this connection officials note the
promptness with which Japanese sol
(Continued on Page 2)
FRENCH SMASH
OP FRONT
(By Review Leased Wire.)
LONDON, Sept. 12. Resuming their
offensive north of the Somme in
France, French forces again have
smashed the German line, captured
their front line and other trenches
and have taken about 1,50 prisoners.
The new attacks were made tn the
front from Combles to the river. So
vicious was the thrust of the French
that it required only half an hour for
them to overcome the resistance of
the Germans and make themselves
masters of three and three quarter
miles of first line trenches.
Fast and southeast of Combles they
seized additional trenches aitmg the
Bethune-Peronne road, which leads
from Peronne northwest through Bap
auine and Arras to Bethune, placing
a strong force in the way of the Ger
mans north of the Peroune.
MASS. GUARDS MAY
GET $10 EXTRA PAY.
BOSTON, Sept. 12. A bill pro-
biding pay of ten iTolIars a month
until January IS of next year
for militiamen on duty at the
Mexican border, was passed by
the house at a special session of
the legislature which opened to-
day. Authorization for a bond
issue of $.".00,000 for this purpose
is provided for In the measure
j which goes to the senate.
-ttfusuTes pruvmiiiK ior au-
sentee voting of militiamen on
duty at the border were con-
sidered by the legislative com-
in it tecs but no action was taken
today. ,
J. Ham Lewis to Follow Hughes
Tour of Northwest. Others to
Use Tent. Marshall to Visit
Arizona.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
CHICAGO, Sept. 12. A dozen or
more well known Democratic speak
ers will begin tours of the central and
western states within a few days in
behalf of Wilson and Marshall. The
list will include Vice President Thomas
R. Marshall, Senator Underwood,
Hoke Smith, James Hamilton Lewis,
Judge Albert D. Norton, William J.
Bryan, Senator wriiam J. Stone,
Senator James A. R -ed and John J.
Lenz.
J. B. Ruce Crann -, chief of the
speakers' bureau at liTfestern Demo
cratic headquarters Cfay . began ar
ranging schedules for the speakers.
Vice President Marshall, it Is said,
will speak in nearly every western
state after making a trip through
Indiana. Senator James Hamilton
Lewis will follow the trail of Charles
E. Hughes through the northwest to
the Pacific Coast. Senator Reed will
tour Missouri with a tent
Senator Shafroth. of Colorado, will
tour bis home state and later speak
in Utah and Wyoming.
Denmark People
May Vote on Sale
-. Of Isles to Ui S.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
COPENHAGEN via London, Sept.
12 Premier Zahle today submitted
in the Landsthing a bill providing as
its object the settling of the question
of the sale of the Danish West Indies
to the United States by a plebiscite
after a parliamentary committee has
examined into and considered the
matter. The first reading of the bill
is to take place Friday.
The government expects that If the
bill is passed the committee will have,
finished its report on October 4 and
the plebiscite can be held October 29.
ir the bill is adopted, the question of
the sale of the islands will be a sep
arate question from the general elec
tions which the members of all politi
cal parties expect will be held later.
GERMAN LINE
OFF
On the British end of the front only
mutual bombardments tc'ok place. All
along the Macedonia front the heavy
fire of the entente continues. Bul
garian trenches on a front of two
miles and to a depth of 800 yards are
reported by Paris to have been cap
tured by the French west of the Var
dar river near Majadgh, which lies
about four miles south of GievgelL
Unofficial reports are that the Bul
garians have evacuated the forts at
Kavala on the Aegean Sea which
they captured in August while the
presence of entente warships off the
town is given as the reason for the
withdrawal.
Berlin reports further progress fin
the Germans and Bulgarian force-i uii
der Field Marshal von Mackensen in
the Dobrudja region of eastern Rumania.
DOZEN ELOQUENT
DEMOCRATS TO
INVADE
WEST
MILES
COKE G
D
INT GOVERNOR
MAJORITY; WHEELER
With Sixteen Precincts Heard from in Cochise County, Including Bisbee Number 4, War
ren, Upper Lowell, Pirtleville and Tombstone, Hunt Leads Olney by 92 Votes Hay
den Beats Worsley Bad in County, While Bolin, Osborn, Ross and Several Others Ap
pear to Be in the Lead for the Democrats', Preference.
With sixteen percincts in the county heard from at 3:30 this morning George Hunt
is leading George Olney for the Democratic nomination for governor by a majority of 1 55.
This includes returns from Bisbee Number 4, Warren, Upper Lowell, Don Luis, Tombstone,
Fairbank, Hereford, St. David, Benson, Cochise, Courtland, Johnson, Pirtleville, Naco,
Pearce, McNeal. Partial returns from Willcox shows that Hunt received forty-eight votes
while Olney got 111, reducing Hunt's majority to ninety-two.
As regards the balance of the Democratic candidates it is reasonably certain that
Hayden won, as also did Judge Ross, for the supreme court, Osborn, as against Simms,
for secretary of state. Murphy and Howe are close in Cochise county. Bolin beat Grant
for the mine inspectorship. Miller is leading Betts for the corporation commissionership.
Case appears to be in the lead for superintendent of public instruction. With Sutter lead
ing in the race for the senatorship nominations, Riggs and Roberts are fighting for second
place with Riggs slightly in the lead. The legisaltive ticket is badly split with the indica
tions favoring Hughes, O'Neil, Grindell, and the balance are in doubt. Wheeler is re-nominated
over both McDonald and Hayhurst, and from present returns Sparks and Rock will
be the nominees for the supervisorship.
South Carolinans'
Vote Down Blease
For Governorship
(By Review Leased Wire)
COLUMBIA, S. C, Sept. 12. Near
ly complete returns late tonight from
South Carolina's "run off" Democratic
primary Indicated that Governor Rich
ard I. Manning was renominated over
former governor Cole L. Blease by a
majority estimated at between 5,000
and 7,000 votes.
Representative Wyatt Aiken of the
third congressional district, seemed
to have been defeated by F. H. Dom
inick in a close race.
Maine Vote Shows
State Republican
By Over 13,000
(By Review Leased Wire)
PORTLAND. Me., Sept. 12. The re
vised vote for governor. United States
senators and congressmen at yester
day's election follows:
Governor, Millikan, Republican, 79,
902. Curtis, Democrat, 66.547.
United States Senators: Hale,
(Rep.), 78,044; Fernald, (Rep.) 79.368;
Johnson. (Dem.), 68,273; Sills, (Dem.)
66.832.
Congressmen: Goodall, (Rep.), 19,
732; Stevens. (Dem.). 16.103; White,
fRen.l. 19.157: McGillicuddy. (Dem.).
18,770; Peters. (Rep.), 21,820; Bunker,'
(Dem.), 18,277; Hersey. (Rep.). 15,066;
Pierce, (Dem.). 11,013.
Republican Race
For Governor In
r 1 Jrs. I Tio
UwU lu K
(By Review Leased Wire)
DENVER. Sept. 12. At 1:30 a. ni.
J. L. Moorehead. campaign manager
for Samuel- D. Nicholson, claimed
Denver by a plurality of 2.300 votes
over Governor George A. Carlson lor
the Republican nomination for gov
ernor. At that time, he said, Carlson
had a lead of approximately 3.000 in
the state outside of Denver, with
several Nicholson strongholds yet t'J
report. The returns in both city and
state were very incomplete.
DENVER Sept. 12. The Repub
lican nomination for governor
was claimed by adherents of both
Governor Geo. A. Carlson and
Samuel D. Nicholson on the face
of incomplete returns tonight
from today's primary election.
Nicholson was leading in Denver
and in a few precincts in mining
communities in the state, while
Governor Carlson was receiving
majorities from the agricultural
districts. Sixty two precincts in
Denver gave:
Nicholson 3.774; Carlson 2.9S3.
Fifty-eight precincts outside of
Denver gave:
Nicholson 2,139; Carlson 2,337.
XPECTED 10 GO
BY FROM
Returns from the state would indicate the closest race
in the history of the primary for the governorship nomina
tion. On the face of the returns it might appear that Hunt
has the advantage, though this is denied by local, well-informed
sources. Telegraphic information gives Pima county to
Hunt, Gila to Hunt by about 500, Yuma also to the Governor,
Mohave also in the same column. Maricopa county will go
to Olney but the majority will be cut to near 1000. Pinal
should give Olney a small majority and Garham county, which
had not been heard from this morning, is counted upon to
give Olney a substantial majority. The Hunt people ex
pected to go out of Cochise county by at least 1 000 votes to
the good. From early-morning indications it would not ap
pear that his majority will fie over 750 in this county, if it
reaches that point.
Voting, on the whole, was light and followed closely the
usual course of primary elections. In Ward I a reasonably
large vote was had. This holds true as to Lowell and Upper
Lowell. In the other Bisbee voting precincts, however, the
balloting was not so heavy. Douglas polled a fairly heavy
vote.
The great surprise came in the race made by Harry C,
Wheeler for sheriff. The incumbent carried every outside
precinct, including Pirtleville, and Bisbee Number 4. Hay
hurst ran first in Warren, but was losing in Douglas to Wheel
er. McDonald, on the face of the early returns appears to be
second man in the race for the nomination. There is little
doubt but what Wheeler will be the nominee.
In Ward 3, at 3:05 this morning Olney was leading Hunt
by seventeen votes. McDonald was leading in the race for
sheriff by 23, with Hayhurst last.
In the precinct primary Rod McDonald appears to be
the nominee, on the Democratic ticket for the nomination of
justice of the peace, while J. Bert Polley has unquestionably
been renominated.
M. C. High has been renominated over Ed Riley.
In Lowell precinct there
Winters and George R. Smith for the justice of the peace
I nomination. Winters, with Warren. Don Luis and Upper
l Lowell in, was leading by eleven. It is thought by many,
' however, that the present justice of the peace will more than
overcome the lead in Lowell proper. Joe Hodges has been
I renominated by a safe lead.
rxeports rrom Ward I at j:jv), Democratic votes had
! Yvn rrmnrf4 lfiO of tViMn (vino (nr
- - w w ww v .w wwasaf aw a a va . U I 14 m a VS W .
In this ward McDonald was leading with 1 1 0, Wheeler had 60
and Hayhurst 1 6.
In Ward 2, at the same hour as above, 143 Democratic
votes had been counted, 102 of them being for Hunt and 41
for Olney. In this ward McDonald was leading with 71,
Wheeler was next with 47 and Hayhurst was last with 1 4.
MOHAVE FOR HUNT.
KINGMAN. Sept. 12. Incomplete
returns from 11 out of 3S precincts in
Mohave County give the following
Democratic vote:
For representative: Hayden, 215;
Worlsey, 60.
For governor: Hunt, 329; Olney, 89.
For secretary of state: Osborne.
221; Simms. 69.
Judge: Ross, 200: Duffy, 49.
THINKS HUNT RENOMINATED
PHOENIX. Sept. 12. At one o'clock
this morning with meagre returns on
ly from the larger counties it is evi
dent that Hunt has been renominated.
It is Impossible to estimate majority.
Olney will carry this county by less
than 1.000. Other Democrats probab
ly are Ross for supreme court; Jones
attorney general; Osborn. Secy.
of
State; Bolin, mine inspector:
Case
supt. public instruction: Betts. cor-
poration commissioner and Howe, tax
500 10 750
E
is a close fight between J. G.
commissioner. Boyce, auditor with
out contest.
Kibbey has been nominated by Re
publicans for United States senator
and probably Eads for representative
in congress. Figures regarding coun
ty and legislative tickets In this coun
ty unobtainable but results will be
close. It looks now as if county Dem
ocratic incumbents might be defeated
all along the line as result of the
"rescue club" movement. Deciding
figures will not be made known until
late this morning.
HUNT LEADS IN PIMA.
TUCSON. Sept. 12 With the count
of today's primary proceeding s!twly
and with few outside precincts which
are small heard from, vote at mid-
night stood for governor. Hunt. Demo-
j nomination for Congress on the Demo-
cratlc ticket, Worsley 204. Ha
(Continued on Page Five.)
