SEP
113
1916
I 1 1
MAINE VOTE
l.anrrxt lii liittm-) 1 The Slat To
tal N 41 t iMgM it:. hii'I
I smi i Vil Uiirheof.
Portland, Me , September 12 The
largeat vote In the hlttory of Maine
wm east at the Stale election yeater
day. The total vote will approximate
lflO.OOO. The limn, s have not been
approached since 1880, the year the
Democratic and Greenback parties
fuaed, when the total waa 147,802. In
the laat Presidential year and two
years ago It fell below 142,000.
The receipt today of the vote from
the border and a few laolated pre
cincts Increased the plurality of Carl
E. Mllllken, Republican, for Governor,
over Gov. Oakley C. Curtis, Democrat,
from the indicated figures of 13,000
last night to 13,800.
Pluralities for the Republicans, wh:
will send a solid delegation to Con
gress, were practically unchanged
from the figures of last night, as were
the pluralities of Frederick Hale and
former Governor Bert M. Fernald, who
were elected to the United States Sen
ate. The Republicans, who have held a
majority In the State Senate, will con
trol both houses by u good working
majority.
Revised Vote
The revised vote for Governor, Unit
States Senators and Congressmen
follows:
Governor Mllllken (Rep.), 80,357;
Curtis (Dem), 66,647,.
United States Senator Hale (Hep ),
78,044; Kernald (Rep), 79,368; John
son (Dem), 68,273; SI Ins (Dem).
6C832.
Congressman -Uoodell (Itep.), 19,
732; Stevens (Dem), 16,103; White
(Rep.). 19,167; fcOllllcudy (Dem),
18,770; Peters (Rep ), 21,820; Bunker
(Dem.), 18,277; Horsey (Rep.), 16,
0C6; Pierce (Dem.), 11,013.
Complete returns from the Second
Congressional District gave White,
Republican, plurality of 630 over
McGiilicudy, Democrat. The vote was
19,510 to 18,880.
Berea, Ky September 12 An
nouncement was made here by Presl
il ill William Ooodrll Froxt of Berea
college' of a Rift of f 10,000 from
James Taloolt of New York city, re
ceived shortly before the latter'?
death, August 21. Mr. Talcott had
long been Interested in Berca'a efforts
to broaden the educational facilities
for women of the Southern mountains
The gift was part of a total plengc ior
$40,000 for the erection of a glrla'
dormitory, the work on which Is pro
gressing rapidly, with the expectation
that the structure will be ready for
occupancy January 1. The opening of
Talcott Hall for the housing of 100
young women will be one of the most
Important steps In Berea's present en
deavor to secure adequate shelter and
equipment for Its great constituency
from "the mountain ends of eight
Southern States." ,
m ;uo sent to entrain
HOME
Robert Beckett, better known aB
"Beck," a young negro boy of this city
who frequently dances on the streets,
was sent to the Kentucky Home for
colored children at Louisville yester
day. "Bock" was before Judge Rice
some time ago charged with robbing
UN Mat drawer of the McNamer Bak
ery. lie secured ubout $16. At the
time the Judge paroled him but yester
day lie was sent to the Children'!?
Home. The child had no relatives or
legnl guardian but was living with it
family In the West Knd.
SELLS PROPERTY
Thomas. L Rwan Co., real estate
agents yesterday sold the Chenoweth
residence on Kast Second street to Mr
H D. Kills. Consideration private.
The property Is now occupied by Mr.
John Chenault and family.
BOY WANTEO
Reliable boy about 16 years of ago
i anted to carry papers and work
around office. Apply at once at Ml
office.
BRICK STREETS
Work Should Re Pushed More Than It
la If The Contractors Expert to
Finish This Fall - Cltliens
Angry Over Situation.
Prayer Meeting tonight at the Cen- The many friends of Mrs. Frank
tral Presbyterian Church at 7 o'clock Barkley will be delighted to know that
Note the change of hour. she is very much improved in health
Harbeson Garage
Will Put Your Car in
Good Order For
Fall.
Parts and Sup
plies Cars For Hire
GOODYEAR
&S AS ROM. OHIO
Fortified Tires
FORTIFIED AGAINST
Rim-Cut. by the No-Rlm-Cut faarur.
3lowoaU by the "On-Air" i-ure.
LooTr.d. by many rabl.fr rivets.
Insecurity 126 t"..i h I IJii.no wire.
Puncture, and Skidd. nt by t.io double
thkk All-Wrath, r tread.
FARMERS!
Don't Take Chances With that
Precious Tobacco Crop
Buy Some of Those
Tobacco Savers
NOW
$3.00, While They Last
MIKE BROWN
"The Square Deal Man"
We learn upon good authority that
a number of the cltlsena of the Sixth
Ward held an indignation meetlne
yesterday afternoon in regard to tlu
slowness of Gary, Reed Co., the eon-
tractors for the asphalt streets.
The rate all of the contractors
worked yesterday, Maysville will b
able to use Bast Second street in the
Fifth and Sixth Wards about 1918. The
only work that went on as far as we
have been able to learn was a small
amount of excavating and replacing u
curb in the Fifth and laying about teu
feet of concrete. The main street in
l he Sixth Ward Is entirely closed ex
cept for the street cars.
The reason of the stoppage of work
In the Sixth Ward yesterday was on
atcount of the stone used in the con
crete, which, according to Mr Faston
chairman of the Internal Improvement
Committee of the Cltty Council, is not
up to the specifications. Another ob
jection was that the surface of the
concrete when laid was entirely too
rough. The contractors say that the
concrete must be rough In order t"
bold the asphalt in place when laid
Surely, they ought to know how to lay
the concrete, being one of the largest
asphalt contractors In the state.
However, the Internal Improvement
Committee met yesterday afternoon
and authorized the use of the stone
already on hand provided It is free
from dirt. Mr. W. h. Glazier, the Clly
Engineer, will be on hand tomorrow
and make a further exiiminalion of the
work.
It is no wonder that no better time
l'j made on the streets when the
chairman of the Internal Improvement
Committee and the various inspectors
are continually wrangling over how
lythe work should be dope. If the in
spectors do not know their business
they should be replaced by competent
men. Certainly capable men should
be obtained at $4 a day, the pric
now being paid to the inspectors.
It is understood that several of the
business men of the East Knd will til.
suit against the city In the near future
for damage, done to their business
through the slowness of the street
construction. And if they do they are
certainly entitled to damages, be
cause not only the streets but the side
walks are almost impassable for quite
a stretch in the Sixth Ward and there
is no telling how long they will re
main in that condition. Judging from
the way the work is now progressing
If these people obtain damages from
the city someoue is responsible, and
it looks as If the taxpayers are the
ones who will have to pay for the folly
and carelessness of a few men whj
should have had this work completed.
The City Council, upon the making
of the contracts should- have set a
time limit on the work to be done. This
would have saved the city many dol-
lurs, aB the contractors would have
been compelled to finish on time or
lose money. Money on inspectors, on
ear fare for the Internal Improvement
Committee, and many other small ex
penses, in all amount to no small sum
would be saved for the taxpayers. Cer
tdiuly the street can not be finished
this fall at the rate of work being
done. If they are left during the win
ter we would be willing to ask for the
old mud roads.
tJI'KHT OF MISS Ml I si
Flemlngsburg friends of Nelson
Weedon were glad to meet him at the
Nielsen concert at MayBVille last week,
he having the honor to be a guest of
Miss Nielsen during her visit to Mays
ville. Miss Nielsen, as well as other
musical eelebrites, has recognized Mi.
w.-e, inn h rare talents and he haa
been the recipient of Bigual honors.
Mlsu Nlelavn has plauued a house
party for the month of October at her
villa on the Hudson and Mr. Weedon
with other musicians of no'-: Nnh
American aud foreign, are to be her
guests. 1 1 im man) friends In Fleui
lugsburg will be pleased tu note such
recognition of his ability. Flemiug
(Juiette
HLK.18K APPEARS TO BE BEATEN
IN MM TH CAKOLINA
Columbia, 8. ft, September 11
Nearly complete returns late tonight
from South Carolina's runoff Demo
cratlc primary Indicated that Oover
uor Richard I. Manniug waa renomi
nated over former Governor Cole L
nieuae by a majority estimated at be
tween 3,0U and 7,000 votea. With
about 12V.000 votes reported out of a
registration of Ku.ooo, Manniug haa
76.300 and Hleaae 2.SK0
HEAVILY HMD
in ttyuire Fred W Bauer's Court
enterda) Ud Lawji waa Sued 114.15
for bunging iatoxicaliuK liquor luto
prohibition territory (or other than
The shipping ease that contained
the dye received by January and
Wood " Co. from the consignment
brought over by the Deutsehland is
being exhibited by D. Hechlnger A Co
I e their show windows. The case Is
attracting quite a bit of attention.
FIRST DAY'S SESSION
of the Second NafcM Christian En
rieator Meeting Heine; Held In the
f'hrlwtlan ( hnrrh In Thin City
-Greatly Pleased Those
Attending.
The first day's session of the Second
District Christian Endeavor Meeting
was held yesterday in the Christian
Church and the First Presbyterian
Church. A number attended and
were greatly pleased with the meet
ing. The meeting opened yesterday
morning with a prayer service by Rev.
H. Kerr Taylor. The program for
1H16-17 was outlined met with the ap
proval of everyone. The program for
the year contains a great many good
points, which if carried out will be a
great help to the various endeavors in
the district. The class In Christian
Kndeavor expert was conducted by Or
Frazee of Iexlngton.
The afternoon session was spent In
talking over the work of the youni
people's society and was very helpful
t.) those present.
In the evening the program was
held In the First Presbyterian Church
Mr. C. F Kvmis of Ixlngton, Field
Secretary for All South Kxtenslon
Committaa ui United Bnelat of Chris
tian Kndeavor, gnve a stereoptlcan
li e lure on "Christian Kndeavor in
Dixie." His slides showed a great
number of the Endeavors In the South
and the work being done by 11. em. Ill-j
lecture was quite interesting.
The evening session was favored by
a neatititul duet by Miss Amye King
and Dr P. O. Smoot. Mrs. O. L. Hart-
led also sang a solo.
A number of out of town people arei
here attending the meeting. A regie-,
ter is being kept of these. They rep-1
resent various Endeavors In the dis
trict and are learning things that thevj
will lake back with them to use In
their own society. The meeting is not ,
coufincd to members of the Christian
Kndcavor but everyone Interested in
young people's work Js invited to at-!
tend. Today will be the last day of
the meeting.
Mr. Clarke Overton of Fleming
county has resigned as aid to Gover
nor Stanley. He will be appointed as
parole agent to succeed Mr. Ernest
Thompson of lexington, who failed to
qualify for the position.
FOUNTAIN PENSll
OHM PASTORS APPOINTIO
The Methodist Conference, Just
closed at Lima, Ohio, has appointed
the following ministers of local In
terest :
Aberdeen S. E. Rurgett.
Manchester C. H. Rriggs.
We will continue to sell bread at 5c
per loaf, full size, and the best made.
have secured the agency for the well
known Ruster Brown and Quality
Dread. J. C. CABL.I8H A BRO.,
Quality Grocers
r
THB BERT
1 LJ
IN THE CITY. COM I IN AND T I V IT
S M. F. WILLIAMS & COMPANY
iB i CORNER THIRD AND MARKET STREETS
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIBBIIWH....
IT PAYS
to take care of your eyes. Better sight
makes the world brighter. Don't go
through life with poor vision when
propej-glasserwlll make you see better
Eyes examined. Lenses duplicated
Or. B. Kahn of Cincinnati on Monday?
lr. George Devlne Every Bay.
Optometrists and Opticians.
O'Keefe Building.
Creams and Ices I
If You An a Sufferer
From the Heat, Try Oir
BIERLEY'S CONFECTIONERY
nest Side.
22ft Market Street
i
" 1 111
1 1
A IIANBSOME POKCII
ndds Immensely to the appearance of
a house nnd the comfort and satisfac
tion of the occupants. To know how
easily it can be had JuBt come and
look over our mill-worked columns,
railings, etc., all so perfectly made and
adjusted that you. can put them up
yourself, and the cost is so little!
The Mason Lumber Company
Corner Limestone nnd Second Streets.
Phone 5 It.
A A. McLaughlin. L. H. Rohan.
"The Home of QUALITY Clothes"
This Week Ushers in Fall Styles
in Men's Wear
As usual this store is ready to show-you r,he advance style in Men's and Young Men's
Clothes. The designers of our new Kail Suits have turned out some very clever models; clothes
that will meet your expectations of what a well divssed man should wear. We would like for
you to see them. You'll And styling that 's right up to the minute a step or two ahead.
W are headitiarters for every apparel men need besides clothes. Rhoes, Sliiris, Hats, Neck
wear, Hose and Noveltiesevery line with u style "touch" that's emphatically good taste.
Watch our windows and annoiiiii i iiieiits
Come in today. You enn get better values than later on and you can select from larger :is
Rortments. NY hep you see these new things you '1 1 find we have not overestimated their goodness
D. HECHINGER & CO.
Corsets For Medium Figures
Fulle boned but flexible. Back with fullness at top to care
for any extra flesh. Slightly nipped-in at side front, back and
front lines remaining straight. Elastic inserts in the skirt
make it clinging and hold in the lower figure. Six wide sup
porters. Made of coutil $3. Also good models at $1 and $2.
Silks in Generous Variety
Our silk service includes wear insurance and style assur
ance. Weaves, colors and patterns are absolutely correct.
A delightfully varied assortment at 75c to $2.50.
1852 rL U LM ' 1916
SHOES
SHOES
RED CROSS AND QUEEN QUALITY FOR LADIES REQALS AND DR. REED'S CUSHION SOLES FOR MEN
New shoes in SHOK XOAl' KID POUM eoinbination two New soles in QVh MKTAL, lo.tli button ami lace, with the
tune effects in Taim and llrayg. latest shaped toes.
THE OSTEOTARSAL SHOE DR. REED S CUSHION
ia a high arch low lu-el leeoinmeiided hy the leading osteopatli-s SOLE8 I ciy Bj)
,,M,"",,,U",ry' ; , are the kind of shoes which I kl
tome in an J lei us explain more fully to you the many JJ
advantages of this shoe. . . j& -
man who is on Ins teet a S
FOR THE LAROE ANKLES I""'1 ''
a sell A I 'NT POLM V OUT IHH W. pay special alien would ,on l,'ttr" u PP"-
lion lo mi r shoes made solely for comfort, mid our prices are '
just right. WORK SHOES
REMEMBER ' sl"'r1"' '"" 'uade to sell for 1.50. Our price $2.39.
VS e aell 1N. 8CHOLL 8 FOOT APPLIANCES iucludinU BOY SCOUT 8HOES
KOOT SOAP FOOT POWDKR, "K1XO" CORN PLA8TBR8, j butloo ami la. , The new patented toe lace without hooks'
AlU'H SUPPORTS-- an. I do not forget we mend worn out soles. is made exactly like fathtHT a.
is own dm. 1
