'TNe T6 Lt I
If You have overhe*d Asmebedy ar
ON your X"M list Phone Main 33MI
and have them entered for a yena t htH ra'd t I7 fI One I~ n
subscription to "'e Herald. It wiBO eC n
start tomorrow-Christmas morning.
NO. 3715. wwnTHU-naa. WASHINGTON. D. C.s SUNDAY, DECEMBER 24, 1916. ONE CENT-ib .'sTO;;um"
CIPITAL AWAITS
CHRISTMAS DAWN
Rich and Poor Alike to Share
Joys of Happy Yule
tide Season.
Chrismnaa the day which has been the
cause of all the rush and money spend
Ing of the past several weeks and the
approach of which day dragged along
like ages to anxious and excied little
boys and girls, Is about to dawn. Santa
Claus will creep down the chimneys to
night with a sack bulging with toys and
Santa has been in Washington for sev
eral weeks, mingled in the crumb of holl
day shoppers and In the homes where
there has been a bustle in preparation
for the celebration of the great day. His
Insignia has been everywhere, from the
most modest toy to the most. expensive
gift. His insignia is the spirit of giving
and good cheer. which makes Christmas
the greatest of all holidays.
All the shopping has been done, and
1at night Washington merchants closed
their.piaces of business after one of the
most successful holiday seasons in their
history. The shop-early and mail-early
campaigns have had a satisfactory effect.
The turkev for the Christmas dinner has
been bought. and now for the celebra
tion of the day.
Washingtonians are prepared for merry
making. After a rest today. all Wash
ington will enter tomorrow into a festive
spirit which will find channels in feast
ing. entertaining, visiting and attending
hurches. entertainments, theaters. and
oth-r places of amusements.
Erverything will t Koing full-blast to
morrow. Special attractions have betn
rranz.d in all the theaters. the vaud,
I ad mot ion picture houses generally
givinL extra 1-rformances. All places of
aru.ernt ar, in 'hristmas garh
4afes antd restaurants will have a large
pat- nai,. Many persns have arranged
for rheir (hristma dinner in these places,
%, hih ar- well prrparei with tempting
non-u and 'peial music to satisfy the
ism-irn entertainment. by churchelt,
frat-r ll ordIers. and other organizations
. lanv of the. .nter
i..n's have atlready I.-n given.
'ha ' cutl wI have st--etal pro
- a! c e. 1t!01iY and xe-rises for
NT: NI'U-11) N P'AGE TWO
DYING GIRL ACCUSES
SWEfTHEART OF MURDER
I Ier Testifies Daughter Revealed
Poison Plot to Her.
I the Ii.ntersunann %ens seraice.1
ol f fitnmm:cge Widener.M
I'hI tLev was held fol
.c o. poisonim.
zabth 'cunningharm
h-iner ws% e
- th I Ii hen hall honie.
- tnn ham. he girl'
I t i that hi
h-r i: breath ac.
it 1 I li o foremri acii deewi
1r i tham taid srl found thl
-1 1, 1 a tlt w, h -r
n r. besliidl lep. Io being r
h irl aidt. crcording t, Mrs
. I I 'tlory:
hee r n,, i my life Ile helt
nd ftr-ced the 1,huson down m3
c- nied he- had :, hati it
aid Iie ta- :trrtstoe
home itt Sparta an
- - tor tria:.
SISTER NEAR DEATH;
BROTHR FACES PRISON
Grace Teiper May Not Recover from
Shock of Murder Trial.
guy the laterastlonal News s4erviec.1
Buffalo. N. Y.. Dec. 23.-Anothei
death may yet develop in the Teipel
tragedy.
Convictiom of John Edward Teipei
for the murder of his aged mother
has aeriously affected the condition o
his sister. Grace. and physicians to
day were gravely fearful that she ma]
not withstand the shock. She nevel
has fully recovered from the five blow
4-n the head, received in the same
trasdy which took the lives of hei
mot r and brother.
M . Laura Teiper. the convicte<
man's wife. is iII a state of collaps4
at her home.
Telper will be sentenced next Wid
nesday. The penalty is not less that
twenty years in the penitentiary.
Woman's Screams Foil
Purse-Snatcher's Raid
Attracted by the sc-reams of Mrs
Catherine Dickinson from the ('hristmai
-rowds near Fourteenth and H streets
northwest. Traffic Policeman Monteifl
vesterday evening arrested Waveriy
Pierson. negro, 19 years old, as he was
attempting to snatch Mrs. Dickinson's
pu11rae.
Policeman Monteith was directini
traffic when he heard the woman9
screams. H~e saw the man tugging al
Mrs. Dickinsons puree. The prisoner wa
taken to the First precinct station where
the polite say he confessed.
GETS TEN YEARS FOR SLAYING.
Philadelphia. Dec. 23-Frank C
Mara, a seaman on the battleshil
Rhode Island. who was found guilt3
lif slaying James C. Morris. anothei
sailor In the engine room of the bat
tieship on the night of September 18
lnst, today was sentenced to ten years
imprisonment at bard labor by. the
,court martial board at the local navy
yard. Mara will serve his sentence
at Concord, N. H.
QUichest Service to Baltimere.
Every Hour on the Hour, Baltimori
and Ohio. 81.75 round trip. Uaturdayi
and me.uamayt Sa.&-Ad.
Day's Developments
In Pay-taise Move
1. Representatives of organized
labor are assured by members of
the Senate that the 5 and 10 per
cent increases will be included in
all supply bill,
2. MovemeA't started to interest
and secure all women workers of
the Federal and the District gov
ernments for organized bodies
working for salary Increases.
3 Representative Kennedy, of
Rhode Island. indorses movement
for higher salaries and urges sct
entific reclassification of Federa
and District payrolls.
4. Employes of the Interior De
partment raise $27 fund for janitor
suffering with illness and having
eight children to support.
PARTY FOR POOR
"Kiddies"' Yule Fete at Be
lasco Arranged.
All the little children have a future of
their own, but the present time is Christ
mas time and children's time.
The future doesn't count when "Christ
mas Comes." as every child knows, and
therefore there is exceptional interest in
the holiday party to be given Thursday
morning at 10 o'clock in the Belasco The
ater under direction of The Washington
Herald, the management of the Belasco
Theater. and William Fox. Inc.
To make up the list of guests who will
enjoy th' Presentation of "A Daughter
of the Gods," with Annette Kellermann in
the stellar role. the services of the As
sociated 'harities have been enllsted. with
th rel It that eight district manauers of
the association are co'mpillng lIlts -f
names of hildren who will te the guests
of the hosts and who otherwise proi'hahiY
would have no chance to see a perform
a Iof any sort duilng the Christmas
season.
Ttm rhildrn wio( are to he at the Be
ltasco are anong the most unfortunate
little ones in WVashingt on. They are Poor.
rheir parent ar, poor. t eatittition ex
ats in Wahirigton A hcr, l'Ple can't see
it. The peotle who are poor do not adver
tise the fact.
Every beneficient agency of the Asso
*it ld Charities has teen l'et in motion
t. make the party an unqualified su.'ccess.
The efficiency of that organization af
fords promise for the expressed helief
that the childr-n are going to have a
good time and that the theater will be
a.- full of children as the capacity will
Permit.
"There are families in Washington that
ire continuously in need of help." said
a workets it seal hetterment yesterday.
"I said families. That presupposes the
exist 'nci of children. The children sure
are t here. ani -ventu-ill v they will
'crow up anit Pe citizens. Just now,
though. th y are only kids., andt they
ni,:ed iristnas. Anything that any one
-an do to moake Christmas a real holiday
for these unfortunate chidren will be a
be nefa tion worth Imore in the Inculca
)i1o of kindly iil s than coul<d be pro
hice throu.;h sirnply mnat'rialistIc work.
"I'm gind The Washington lie raId, In
co-operaition with the Belaisin nninagi
me'nt and the William Fox organization,
has arrani.l this little party for the
hildren. 'hristtmas wiAldn't amount to
shucks without the childiren."
There Is room for 1.50-c kiddles in the
flelasco. and every one of the 1.00 is
Number One.
GERMAN RAIDER HELD
CAPTIVE BY BRITISH
Mysterious Ship Taken After Battle
with Cruiser.
sBy the Internationsi News gervice.l
New York. Dec. 3.-A iiysterious Ger
man sea raider which broke through the
British blockadeo anl destroyed a num
ber of ships in Enlish waters has beer
captured and now rides at anchor in the
Liverpool harbor. according to informa
tion brought here today by the Americar
liner Philadelphia. The capture, it was
said. was made by the converted British
cruiser Teutantic, near the spot where
the Lusitania was torpedoed off the Irish
coast. The raider gave battle but was
forced to surrender. It is 1nderstood that
the German ship' was taken about tw<
weeks ago.
For many weeks before there had beer
rumors in British maritime circles of a
phantom ratdter in English waters and
it was suspected that many ships sup
posed to have been sunk by submarines
fell victim to this nodern "Flying
Dutchman."
5MACKLETON TO RESCUE.
Dunedin. New Zealand. Dec. 23.-Sii
Ernest Shackleton. famous Antarti<
explorer, sailed for Port Chalmers to
day in an effort to rescue the ter
members of his expedition marooned
near Ross Bar ler. These mel had
only a scanty4 supply of )roviions
when the exploration ship Aurors
,broke her moorings in a gale nearly
two years ago and the gravest fears
Sare felt for thert.
XOT1KR KTTJ.KD. SON SAVED.
New York, Dec. 23.-A ,mother was
burned to death and her son was rescued
hy firemen today when fire swept the
garage of Grant B. Shley. millionaire
banker, in East Sixty-sixth street. Mrs.
Harold Delaney. w'i#. of the chauffeur
was locked in a room above the carage
and was suffocated. Firemen rescued
her son. Harold, It. whom they found
clasped in her arms. A pulmotor revived
him.
"CAN'' FOR HARVARD MARVEL,
Cambridge, Mass.. Dec. 23.-It will be a
proud sardine that is canned in the Aber
nathy plant at West Pembroke. Me., veryv
shortly. Thomas J3. Abernathy, a Har
v ard senior, who was pronounced men
Itally perfect by the late Prof. Hugc
Muensterberg, announced today that hi
is going into the sardine canning busl
ness at West Pembroke.
Florida--Superter Service vis Atlantit
Coast Line. 3 all-steel electric lightec
trains daily. 1406 New York ave. aw.
Adv.
WOULD EXTEND
RAISES TO ALL
Senators Favor Putting Salary
Increases in All Federal
Supply Bills.
Members of the Senate who will be
members of the Senate conference com
mittees on legislative and other supplyj
bills yesterday assured the labor leaders
and others Interested In increasing the
salaries of Federal and District employes
that the 5 and 10 per cent increases
would be included in all supply bills.
They further assured them that they
would support legislation granting a
larger increase, provided that Increase
was not beyond 10 per cent for the em
ployes between the grades of $2,50 and
$1,B00, and 15 per cent for the employes
below that grade.
Thomas F. Flaherty, of the Postoffice
Employes' Union. and other organized
labor representatives left the Capitol
convinced that the Senate Is disposed to
grant a material increase in salaries over
that allowed by the House.
Employes of the Interior Department
yesterday took up a collection, and =j7
was turned over to one of the department
janitors who has been working for t
eighteen years on a salary of 5 a month I
and who is at present in a hospital. lIe
has eight children and is without any
resources to mr-ct the affliction fromt
which he Is suffering. The money was
raised in one branch of the Interior De
partmernt. The Inspirator of this move
ment. to help him was moved by the
story in The! Washington Herald yester
(lay reciting the circumstances with ref
erence to a charwoman In the Agricul
tural Detartment.
Representative Kennedy, of RhodeI
Island. yesterday in speaking of the
movement for higher salaries. said:
"The Washington lerald has taken up
a great movement, And Its measure of'
su-ess so far has been remarkable.
I fel tha t the time is ripe for a gen
Iral rvIsion of government salaries and
I fe-lt that hi s revision will work out to
at lat digre I Oward increased wages.
"I also feel that th who ar.- op
IpoAig these increases are moved In
their attitude by a sentiment that is
not baser upon eTudy and Intimate
knowlede of the farts. Personally I
am of the, opini.-'n thaef tin average
government -1mtploye does not get the
CONTINj'ErD N F'AGE TWO.
TAFT OFFERS YULETIDE
fiRATITUDE FOR PEACE
Says Natioi Should Give Thanks that
It Has Escaped War.
(By the International News Iervice.)
f niladelpii;a. Iler. . Americans
should include in their observancf rt
('hristmas deep thanks that their country I
is not it N0a r.
This thought was i xpressed by Prof. I
Wlliam t Iloward Taft, formier Prestient. I
as h bift the Ellcvue Stratford Hotel
-or Ur I street station today.
Mr. raft was one of the speakers at
t.r New England Society dinner last i
rialbt, Ile boarded a 9 ,'clock train I
tir N' w York, where he will be joined <
by 'M rs. Taft on their return trip to i
New Haven.
This country is prosperous,' went on I
Mr. Taft, "hut-and put a big 'but' there
these prosperous conditions ought to make
Americans most anxious to help the suf
ferers -n the other side, and when the 1
time comes, ought to make us willing,
to keep peace thereafter by joining the I
peace league.'
Mr. Taft is president of the League 'o
Enforce Peace.
CHRISTMAS WEATHER
WILL BE UNSETTLED
Snowstorm Sidetracked by Observer,
Who Expects Some Fog.
Unsettled weather conditions along the
Atlantic coast may result in a rainy
Christmas D"y, says the weather man.
The predicted snow storm is not likely
to arrive. Tit, mercr ry will erawl up
a littl. bil, hut today bright sunshine
is due.
In Ihe West and Mliddle West there I
will h snor, bitt In the District and 1
vicinity there will be foggy weather, with,
moderat, variable winds shifting to the
South and rain by nightfall.
Ttt Visconsin and Iowa the merervv
went down to 16 hel"w. Still other see
tions r ported risinz temperature5, In the
1 lower MIssissippi Valley from the Rockies
to the Appalachians.
The latter part of the week probably
will me- snow, Thursday or Friday. and
colder weather will no doubt settle in
a day ahe ad of the snow, and prevail
Itn rest of the week.
STOCKINGS DISPLACE TR S,
New York, Dec. 23.--Santa Claus stock
Ings will displace Christmas trees in the
homes of 1A.W0 members of the National
Housewives League this year, according
tor a statement today by Mrs. Jurlian
Heath. president of the organization. High
prices of trees is given as the reason.
Each member of the organization has
been urged to provide one Christmas din-'
nier for the poor and to trn her chit
dren's toys over to organizatiors for dis
tribution to the poor.
MOTHER AND FOUR TOTS DIE.
Newark. N. J., Dec. 23.--A rmother and'
her four small children were found dead.
today in their gas-filled home in a Ver'
non avenue tenement. The bodies were
discovered by the father, Fred Baker.
night watchman, when he returned home'
from work. Mrs. Baker and the three:
eldest children lay in the same bed. A
baby lay in a crib nearby. All apparent~y
had died while asleep,
WEDS WIFE FOR ECONOMY.
Noblesville, Ind., Dec. 23.--Compared
to J. Grant Sutton. Thomas Lawson isi
no financier at all. Mrs. Sutton won
a bitter divorce suit and $1,800 ali
mony from J. Grant last iweek. J.
Grant won it all back today by marry-|
izmr her anlo aan..
100 Killed in Train
Wrecked by Bandits
(y Iat.. a..a , News Sevie.)
Laredo, Texas, Dec. 2.-More
than one hundred passengers and
Carranista soldiers were killed
when Villistas dynamited a pas
senger train at Carneros, sixty
miles south of Saltillo on Decem
ber 21.
This information was brought
here by passengers arriving here
today fron the neighborhood of
Baltillo
ET ARABIA FACTS
reuton Defense of Torpedoing
Declared to Be Weakened.
Secretary of State Lansing yesterday
nnounced that the United States gov
rnment was in receipt of information
rom London tending to weaken materi
Ily the defense if the submarine attack
n the British steamer Arabia made in
he Mediterranean several weeks ago.
'he information furnished by the British
overnment is still, in the opinion of the
;tate Department. insufficient upon which
base an authoritative protest to the
ierman government from Washington.
Secretary Lancing authorized the fol
:wing announcement on the subject:
"The Department of State has received
reply from the British government to
ts inquiry regarding the status of the
teamer Arabia, to the effect that she
vas not at the time she was sunk. and
ever had been, in the servie, of the
3ritish governint or an y of the allied
overnmeits; that she enirried somte gov
rnment pas.ngers. hooked as ordinary
acket passenger a t the extense of the
overnment.
"Tbe nunier of suh passengrs wilf he
oinnintIcated latr. It !s undorstood also
hat there were ni A:iaties on boiart --
ept the Indian nativ, crew, and that
eV is do not iolIlow the ordinary pa'e
oute on a ceout ofif p 1 eratiois of
uhnarin"i
On board the Arabia at the time of her
Inking wer'e ."Me Amnician citizen si.
" f tnh r i tier killed or i
ured.
Telegraph Tips
Baltimore. D, :23.-Jere S. Black,
inancicr, of York, Pa., and reputed toI
iav In on, of the uealthiest mer, in
'ennsyxlvanla. diu at 10 o'clock this
norn ing at Johns liopkiins it. Iita i.
owing anl illness of abouit tive weeks
rom intesitinal trouble.
ropenhagen. Dec. i-Only the financial
"le- renmai to be settli in th, sate
ut D. iani-i Wet I h., ti. l'nitedi
for $.K.w IC- ,'~r' ti.
atifted tIh treaty providii 1o, :he I
oliowiI; the passaie I t I, !.tIicatl
Ill in bohl houises of Parliarient. The
atitfication will b. sent to the U'tited
taes oin January 11.
Norfolk. Va.. Dcec. "3.-Work of floatii4
hii Norwgian st-amer Kronstadt. whith
.1nt aground last night tear Caie liurnry
.iw)htshii. was started today. i'ar t
.u'-rs responded to dIjtress calls. bu, it
-1 foun that the vessel was in nio im
ni liate danger. She was bound for Nor
olk front alveston, with cotton. The
r.w remained aboard.
tndon. Dec. 23-The North (;erian
'I d liner Prinz FIedrich W ilhelm.
vh h went aground near the Danish isl
in of Samso, has been refloated. accord
n, to a Reuter dispatch from Copen
iacen today.
thibidelphia. Diec. :3. -Sallie Beth-1, a
wgress, years old, was fouurd dead itt
ridnight 1:,st night. with ier head almost
e cred in her home at 2,5 Arizona struet.
the womar was murdered, the pollce b
inv. William lHethel, said to he her hus
ind. is misoirg.
London, De,. 23.-Australia is about
to ftoat another war loan of $ie.0rt0 on
erms similar to previous loans. -ay4 a
Reuter dispatch from lelbourne today.
Amsterdam. Dee. 23.-A telegram from
Berlin says Germany has completed ar
rangements for the establishment of a
uirhmarine mail service between that
:ountry and the United States.
1ondn. De. 23-The order prohibiting
he importation of American cotton
iosier has been revoked. it was an
iounced today.
London. Ile. 23.-Owing to the in
:reased submarine menace the govern
nent war risk insurance office has in
,reased the insurance rate per voyage
for British vessels to 40 shillings per
rent, the Iaily News announced today
London. Dec. 23.-Harry Hananel Marks,
,ditor and chief proprietor of the Finan
'lal News, is dead in London. aed i61
rears.
Tarrytown. N. Y.. Dec. 23.-John D.
lockefeller gave to every employe on
nia estate a $10 gold piece as a Christ
nas present. Between $200 and V36 was
listributed.
Massillon. Ohio. Dec. 23.-P. H. Mona
ian. a P'ittsburgh steel man, died ft-nm
1enrt diseause on the street here while
trurggling through the blizzard to reach
he railroad station to take a train home
o spend Christmas.
Newport. Rt. 1., Dec. 23-The comple
ion of the first year of the Deep Sea
Jiving School. estrablshed at the naval
orpedo station here last spring, was
narked by the graduation of twenty
:hief petty officers of tire navy.
El Paso. Texas. Dec. 23.-The body of
tudgr A. G. Foster was found beside a
-ailroad eight miles east of here. Ap
arently he had been struck by ai train.
ludge Foster was a nephew of John W.
Poster, formerly Secretary of State.
Altoona, Pa.. Dec. 23.-The Morning
tribune and the Morning Times, as welt
is the Evening Mirror, alt the daily news
yapers it Altoona, have announced that
ieginning January 1 the price will be 2,
:ents a copy or 50 cents a month.
Birmingham, Ala.. Dec. 23.-The Birm-'
lngham News and the Birmingham
Ledger, afternoon papers, have ane
nounced 'that, effective January 1, their
yearly subscription rates will be advanced
11 because of the increased cost of news
CITIZENS HONOR
COL W.W. HARTS
Washington, City Beautiful,
Motif of Speeches at Com
plimentary Dinner.
Washington, the city beautiful-the
Inest capital city in the world-as con
eived more than a century ago by l'En
rant, and as perfected today by Col. W.
W. Harts, aid to the President and su
perintendent of public buildings and
trounds-was the motif of a dinner
riven last night at the University Club
]y a group of representative citizens of
the National Capital in honor of Col.
farts.
In a banquet hall made festive with
7hrist-mas greenery, more than two-score
,f the most prominent residents of the
District gathered about the dining board
to do honor to Col. Harts as the man
who has done more than any other man
In late years to beautify the Capital city
3f the nation.
Col. M. M. Parker. former Commission
er of the District, and president of the
I.niversity Cluh, who appointed the com
mittee of citizens that arranged the din.
ier, presided as toastmaster and first
called on E. C. Brandenburg. president of
the Board of Trade, for a toast.
Mr. IBrandenburg drew a word picture
of Washington of years ago as compared
with the magnificent city of today and
paid a tribute to the genius of Col. Harts
by declaring that the greatest improv
ments to the National Capital had been
accomplished in the last five or six years.
Gen. William M. Black. chief of engi
neers of the army. told of the first work
of ('ot. liarts as a young army officer and
described ('I. Hart's., work of today in
perfectin the plans of l'Enfant. Gen.
Black eniluded:
"Cot. Harts is giving his best to the
city of Washington. It is not too muh
to ask th t the residents of our National
('apital -ie him their best in co-opera
tion in making this ity the finest capital
city in the world."
P. T. Mran, president of the ('hamuber
of Vcomnnrree, delivered a characteristic
addres, full f anecdotes and reeking
with humior. which he coneluded with the
declaratiio that every member of the
mm11l e -'hanier is "backing" Cl.
Unerty in hi work. Mr. Moran added:
" f' Iarts. you are engaged in one
of the greatest undertakings a man ever
ONTINjtI (iN PAGE TWO.
41,9000 CIARS ARRIVE
FOR TROOPS IN MEXICO
About 11,000 Pounds of Candy Also
Shipped Soldiers.
Bly EDI ND BEHR.
oInterational News Servies-)
in i ho.icuarterr expeditionary forces
In Mexim. fee. I2. via radio to Colum
Lus. N. MTex.. Dc. 23.-Thousands of
lrs-'it h:tv- arrived and a Christmas
Ir,. sixtv fcet high. has been brought
in from it le m untain thirty-fv rilets
away for the gr.-it-st Tuletide celebra
tion ain Anerian army ever held out
site its .von country.
The ommirnttee in charge of the holi
day proc!am is delighted at the number
end valu. if the gifts recived from IRed
Cr, _ss amnizations .mi idividual
seders. Thus far 41.--0- igar,, 11.40
pounds of candy and Wm poinds of smok
ing tobacco have arrived and there are
still two truck loads of pr-sents on the
way.
It Is e'timated that the value of gifts
to the soldiers will average $2 to 3 each
aid that not one man of the 1O.00) ir.
Mexico will be overlooked. "Comfort"
lags, including both comfort- and luxur
s, predominate, but there are other
xirds of packages ranging foim base
I-l utit z to home-miade ndi.-s anid
8-HOUR DAY PROVIDED
IN ARBITRATION REPORT
Board Grants Part of Demands of
Railroad Switchmen.
4ly the Internationsl News Serviee.)
New York. Dlee. 23.-The arhitratton
bi, rd. re ienting thirteen Yailroads ard
their switchmen, today submItted a re
port to grant the eight-hour day, straight
po rata time for overtime and increase
of - cents an hour for firemen aid help
ers. The arbitration was conducted un
., i the Newlards act.
Eventually 5.63 employes will bentit by
th. changes.
Most of the roads affected are in the
Central West. It is stipulated that 10 per
cent of the employes affected must he
g iven advartage of the new schedules
within the next year.
The workers, acting through the Switch
mens' 1 'non of North America, demand
ed on eight-hour day. time and a half for
overtime a Id increases to 4. cents an
hour for lipears ard I Cants for foremen.
Tao dissenting opinot S t the decision
wer, tie: Railr oad me1 diators obijected
to the ei.:ht-hour day and union men op)
posed toi thei pro rat a overt ime allowance.
WIND], HOSIERY, THEN POLICE.
Baitimor. Md. lec. 23.--Tf mny more
gales strnike Rialtimore this winter the
police fore' may have to he increased.
Also there are a large number of Balti
more men who today can tell the very
latest in women's hosiery. The explana
tion Is that so many men gathered at
Liberty and Lexington streets, the wind
lest corner In Baltimore's shopping dis
trict, that the fair shoppers becamie
panIc-stricken and a riot call was sent to
rolice headquartel4. Mounted policemen
dispersed the crowd of curious males.
GERMAXY MAirES CORRECTION.
Berlin (vIa Rayville wireleqst. Dec. 3.
The Overseas News Agency today char
acterIzed as "absolutely incorrect" the
assertIon made by an entente news agency
that the Germans publish their losses of
wiounded orly after dismissing them from
the hospitals,
"All losses of the German army are
immediately reported to the information
cflice which publishes them without de
l-.y and without exaggeration in the *f.
Round Robin Costs
20 "Noncoms" Rank
(By Intermtte.mal News service.)
El Paso, Tex.. Dec. 2=.-Twenty
or more non-commissioned offmcers
ofithe Eighth Ohio National Guard
Regiment who signed a petition
protesting camp and food con
ditions have been asked to resign
and return to the ranks as rr
atet. it was announced today.
Investigation by regular army
inspectors proved the charges It.
th- round-robin protest false. Ger..
Bell said that more than 5W0
privates who signvd the paper will
not be punished because of "ignor
ance on their part." The case of
Private Richard Dixon, alleged
author of the protest will be con
sidered further.
TELLS OF "LEAKS"
Thomas Lawson Declares
Market Panic Is Coming.
M3y te Intermatioil %ewm herslee.)
Boston, Iee. '..-Thonas W. Lawson,
who with Barnard M. Baruch, of NW
York. e-leanv-I up everal milli ni d1lla17
in the stock crash that folloAei the W%.I
eon peace nont-. icknowledg'I that anfi-r
mation on whi'h the Melean-up"as
mad. calm, dil.- tly throughi official
Washingto n. If. cid tiat aI Vf hig
ger "lak ~ a I -cur thi- w,- k.
Lawipson's tvtemen followmd b ' I only
a f,-w houtr a Satmtnt from Scretarl
Lansing in whh h the ater caid that lis
deprVtnt w ".l welctn ainy Imvesti
gationr init:. th alb- d Ilak lat placid
the advan- lifinti,,n in th- h.nyds of
the two hh.: I;- Itr i t h.. r a
ates Th' Stat- I '- ' lart .t at the- m
tim e. hlft.d I ;..- : '.i-i 'ly *vtt -t
shoulders ot tI - -w ' mn, chir
Jug that a nauhir of rhIm had rv- d
infirmnatWin 1tr t- p a t1. 2
liefo. % WaIl Str,- . k!1- about -.
LaWFvn' etae,, T 1. 1: t :. i, fil
"Betw-n now ,nd --- rth- uil
somevothing s;-eei e and ahtl ular h.app. l
that aiL make lact --k b-' -ip
cupid drools to r-servir tapjo gs h
comparison. Past, this up t. f .tur
referenve. or 1-t it in r 1 ptaI and
smoke I:.
Therev wer not til\ '- las last a--.
1-ut sinodla, l-aks In .1m i .0 im, .
tant Washington doin's. parti. ul-a'I Su
treme 'ourt doln:s 'u:ng the past tw
tv years. and I-nt- iaris .f the lek
Ings wre thte' publi guairdi an- wl'
ni(,wl I ud''t for lu-ak m vie! s T ov ns.
What are vou coins t" vo about it':
"This week-s ie. ntd I B-nk and
Blank :nd ilatk and1 I ath in t'ns and
nttttd the --u- r, h Il: ut what
are A u going to d, a'-ut it'
'To -it 'o in i !n' o-otr hin.iz I
-all var att - t n to the ming ij, t
t,-ck: 1-ak which shN mlak.. pr:- -
F' law that thase of !ast w-'k wll av
,ar- W totulwor t- r t Xr "t hiyz
ten iI tr., *rs. 1, the leak
fw'arie a', thimbi. th-ir 1n, at S l
MANIA FOR STEALINi
FANCY HANDKERCHIEFS
Dentist Held for Theft of Scented Ar
ticles from Women Shoppers.
illy the Internationai News errlce.l
Hlttiir-. Mi. 1--. --. h t i n
svnhje'ct to anvt mwv-ntroi--!b im-u:-.- tou
I 't -l .1~ v .I 1 > f- tv s o - c ;
char- handk ir.- a mi' . -1 rifr- m
wonwn he:;- ry. as th -.trctn -ie
of ,)-I Jrv To 0- 1, tnqtt Dr
Dr. r,s was air d m the i 'hop
pin dis'rv-t b ;,-t mn , a v
a chrt e wie It him Ii.r It
temtve't d pa-ka : Vvn Whe vsiarch-.-i.
ta w n'-si h --hia f and aI -
vof womv-n's glovs. wv- i v:vd tm th- 'devi
fists pikets. Thall) wer' ihtlls- m
itn the lou wantv to l-orr t1 - ti vnt, t
of their '-'n'ers. To th'- th. tnat f'r.
Gross . xplafn,-d
'1 adiyt 1 cvii'. th,- hundti''- hi- fc. bit
I fon't knwa wh-t it Is, bt ithut' a -
anoen's hauti'lh-vys antd ;n-k,' iuvt t
snmell the -'r-m-,'x I avi wv a .iii
I amt ma-rlr-,d and. hav-e ta-n chibt..v Tlj
is nn awful v-ons for me, to s''t ittv
cannot und-rst-'I wh- I ht- th im
tulse to smell the perfumtes
AMERICANS GET MEDALS.
Paris. D'e.' 2E-Thea Pren.-,h o arn.
mart has awardei VInea To a nuiver
of .\mericans en-ag-i in I:- I Cras A-irk.
Announctment of the hoirs was maid,'
toda I y.
IGIld. silver and b'ronz-, medota wre
givet out. The gold mv-'al went to
Laurent e V. fonet. ptesid - t if th
American anuin,- ctmmitt,-- Capt..
mobvile ambtulance corlis. t nd L,-i' Hel.nry
S. Roge'rs andi John Roc-hft, of the, --
hulan ..c :orps.
FIrE LOSS B-AMED ON GIRL
C'hicaigo, itoc. 2: -Pleoause a telephoine
girl did not answe'r whith- a night watch
man tried In vain to get an ans-er to
his calt, the plant of the Pitner Gasoline
Lighting ('ompany burned early today
with a loss of $1r~nn.
IWith flames leaping nsround hinm. E. J.
Jandron. the watchman. rapped the re
vrloer for six minutes and then vdashedl
out to a nearby saloon and called the
fire department.
TWO VESSELS REPORTED LOST.
Halifax. N. 5., Dec. 23.-A large. un
identifted schvooner has be-n lost off
Dartmouth Point. Mahone flay. Al: -in
board are believed to have perished.
Ainother wreck, believed to be the
American st-hoonier William Matson. Is at
trish Ledge, near Yarmouth. The hodyal
of one man was lashed in the rigging.
Reduee-d Fate. for Chr..tssen
iIfoliday's to tvvvnts South. Dtet , mber H
to 25. Souzther-n Rly. Consult Agenta
TA 15th Mt. and al f0 WesrA=
DOVE OF PEACE
FLITS AS XMAS
DRAWS NEARER
No Definite Move to End War
Likely Until After Holi
days End.
WATCHFUL WAITING HERE
Adverse Cnticism of Peace Note Fails
to Disturb United States
ogicials.
Thet.- will be ho defini.- move In peag
negotiations as a re-sult o: President W11
Si s Lace note to the warring naltone
until Christmas has come and gone. go,
ernn. ni officia-s here declared last night.
The jo 'us ason will be in the Pas
be fore either Germanic or Lintente allien
w ill declar, their intentions, or even
intniat their I-urpose of rer.lylng to the
i tr.lde nte omnunieation. There will
be no u of th t tre-inch.s for Christ
mae fr th. not~tiry mi:lirins of Eue
treir..
I'r,.-ident %%',!-n last night settled
down t' a quiet holdav rest, and while
no sttint vaft forthcoming from the
i li '. it b-cane known that no
fi .b ' , .! mi the ac' -- litmation is
-nte nrhtted until s-me datinite word
-'"rn 'ro.n tI.sad. whicn ',:rtainy wIU
b _ithat rmddle if nieI wotek.
S,-Ir "tar, of State Lansing lIft his of
' ! t .. i I th it.. ain 'un-enent
11,f h-- %-id not -etrrn uni TutedayI
ani I at hI-o ud isv- nothing to say
to the g tei,. sa iti 'r rew d,
vl Iopmenl utili' I-t tim.- Washimrton
S t'hI d-n dwn t' await
a tion ii E'r-p.
I udiesgrbed b- 4 ritftam.
ConfrietI r. j )ri I'm abiro-i of ad.
r iti cr isIni if i.. Preid-nt's peae
.'I. in th'- 1-f - c the I nt-r.- ipowes
d t d-T,,I ! -I nimistrati n offiriais.
% hit. thI ev I- i' l i' otn- I t on the
i- ,tin s .mri t i n. ' ritish and
-i. it kn n t at
lt. ti-i Id'.-. te ;r.-.- ..f the- helliger
th 1 : 't;I.ry j I rt -ent. to aI:- w thern
I. iN\ e t- I !- r %-! i:. Is of .' e rei-ple.
Tt1 - . ; n th ta ic op1.
nm.b ig nt .ati-'n would grad.
rl i fore a trite favoral.o view Af
ite Pr-1d--nt'6 ac Ti r,
i toll dibtcrntic cirt-es
t.nd n I. In I r.' nt' d,;ltinatie 'ir
(- h r a rtnue-d -s I-t - th nal su -
e - the -ace moe started by 1l
PT-id t. 11th i- .. .e,-- . w re
mor'- ~ enti lit to withhi: d'-Iit.- exples
rin'.- at- 1- 'he posbln. I 'he dil .l -
mtclie :-rop -nid.n. wh-ich tel! follow'
A new twa :z, conitire o the -ntenti
--oti. partiular:e Ge-eat Hrftiin. aat
l.d to ..ffi al W.ash-Iirn teete-r
d h whn ere Y-.-r Y.-Aey Paut
I k. erd 1r- 1: -r- q Bio cIm-n.
mni itt I -'re -n t Wi s In the peace
ple a f B. trand nuoee:1. ith British
pari!,t t
The Ru lcomrni-ation. -n the form
of t ?"i n i,r as tnuggl+d out of
G(;eal Brit:-in. as Rii-A . has teen under
I ret - ;r- 'i:air-r i- t he tritish atthori
tios fe-r on, ti.n. It was a -lea for
mt- ln I, Ithe U nIit S te.% and neade
11 e ftt slut. I- ni Tht I, !Ary for either
siia id mith pr.-rnt war %as Inposible..
The ornm er ahi h -'o-umht the Russell
a'-e tt.Wiht. repire-sented the
J_ :i l nt on the peate eituation
nionne di.iplornas in 7asht% Igon revived
I rt. It l th ,adtinis'ratJon is pre
i . t. a h-ind-n I ". Ame-ri-an policy
: ci 0-dIng 'eanargh. alK ne.- airoad'
Il ' 1he paR I -1i I a w'rld cliance
' .:fr , .St . lk'r artment of.
sa III nbd 1 se,etary Lansing de
!; ti -irnent of this possibility
other thlani 1 - say thaIt the President was
in r-n I t:ota- i e reA ble effoi
n' n : t'T -in > Ilanre with any in
n:lii-n or nioins along this
Iii*d.wit isdd hn-oun1.r sern
ti o .nts eA ntry. particularlv
n ot The enS t1. whieh would
b,:1 0 n T. raify tiny treat:, I
mot- wit his oJ-! in icu'w is wide~y
1 I .h Il ,t q Sltioni of inl'Aing this
n i Furea'i n nit--rs. and any
i -n wo ;I t-: -rtain to deve-jop
a b~te ohtca:str jle
WiUARDSMAN ATHLETE
PERISHES IN FLAMES
Lieut. Harold Powell's Young Niece
Ako Burns to Death.
sii- it ile a:--p. Lieut. Harold Powel,
it Ntw York National
' in I ilt his 9-h-ar-old nlevc. Mar
car1t -i . w . wert burned to f
1--: i - r% hIth it. strOi i. e home
of I Ita Craret Brewslter --rc. 1rs. N.
Sm 1h :i her ,-i-i daughter,
h. 1 -i of the awspters. were me
ritiuly lout-i by !pI;nul fiom a third
Foii n are see hitng the nins for
The ri.: of th- tir' is undet,rmind
. XItou ietlhi ifmjured. Mrs. Smsith
drat.:C.I hers-- h''-itth thi' snow to I
neilrhbir.- hour andl sate the alarnte.
iiu. i',w.11 wi- 2 y-ears old and was
se: knwI . ti-oti oi'Ihb.--- and horsema..
lHe rat ito rei-ur1 from the border.
BRIIHOBUILD SHIPS.
Lonidoin. iiic. ::- Th.- British govern-i
metnt -lo.rtly i let Ico rnt-acts for the
coristrucltion of a largeii number iof freight
shup --f tstandardtit- cargo, the TimeS
anrniuncedi todlay. Thiy will be put inti
The foreornig dl'.patah Inudientes that
Fnizlandi't to mtn-* Grnm-t prograru
of mter- 'ntile marlint expa:.. on.
BE.T BANS GAIETY.
Rerlin. Dec. 21.-The pollee have re
ce-Ivedi numlterous pe-:it ton. to extend the
''-eing -.r Of enfes : d restaurants on
Niw Ye-.r' eve. but 'I here been r
fuised. fIeferr th-ewar Berlin always
"mtade a nigh* Eof it' bm 1 )Me
SYea's wm.
