.
REPUKL
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TtVfcNTY-SEVENTH YEAR
20 PACT
-'vjxjx, Arizona, ' Sunday morning, December 24, i9ic
AuvenSlw.
20 PAGES
VOL. XXVII., NO. 219
THE ARIZ
ICAN
1 EIGHT-HOUR
DAY IS ORDERED
FOR SWITCHMEN
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, Dee. 23. An eight
hour day, an increase in wages of 5
cents an hour and straignt prorata
overtime was grunted to the members
of the switchmen's iinUm employed
by thirteen eastern anil middle west
ern railroads in an award filed here
today by the federal board -of arbi
tration that heard their differences.
The decision of the board had been
eagerly awaited by .'the railroads in
general and the four major trother
hoods of railroad trainmen for what
hearing it might have on the con
troversy over the Adamson act, in
which the eight-hour day is a ques
tion at issue.
The de ision says that "eight hours
O" lesv shall constitute a day's work,"
gives "an increase of 5 cents an hour
".'i the present rates of pay," and
rules that "overtime shall lie pa hi' vA
rorata rates," to be computed "on
the basis of the actual minutes
Worked." -
Switchmen at present receive a
maximum hourly 'ate of 40 cents.
The award increases tins rate to 4 T
cents, so that, as explained tonight by
Judge Charles 11. Howry, (hai!mn of
tre hoard, cin the eisht-hour lnw'k
they will receive $3.60. for, a day's
v oik, 40 cents less than they re
ceived under the ten-hour basis.
By working ten hours, under the
new rate they will receive $4.50, or
HO cents more than under the old
rate.
In a statement appended to the
award, Judge Howry and Prof. Jere
miah W. Jenks, the neutral member
of the board of six, it is declared that
the long hours of switchmen Co not
imply "excessive physical labor;"
that it had leen established "It" will
not be possible to make the actual
Working eight-hour day effective in
the case of more than a small per
centage of the switching crows, and
that "with the exception of one ex
periment, the testimony was unan
imous to the effect that the efficiency
of switchmen on the shorter work
day would he only slightly increased
so that the burden of the shorter
hcurs would fall almost entirely upon
the railroads."
"While the switchmen asked for .v
10-cenl increase, the statement tm
J'hasises the point that the 5-cent
advance is the largest Riven in anv
arbitration. The increase was grant
ed, three reuiral arbitrators -explain,
because of the- high cost of living and
the "hazaids and hardships or the
work.'
"The increase." they state, "imposs
a he.vy burden upon the railroads,
vhichu owing to th interstate com
merce law," they "art: unable to trans
fer to the shippers and thence to the
public."
They add that "it is the duty of
the properly constituted governmental
authorities to protect railway inter
ests in this regard so far as it Is
necessary."
The arbitrators were not unan
imous in pTiving rt their decision.
although all six signed the award
James B. Connors cf Chicago, assist- j
ant president of the switchmen's lanirv to depart uecemuer w, eu
union. and V. A. Titus of Cleve'.and. route to Fort Riley, Kas.
vice-president of the union, who rep- From Camp Wilson, San Antonio:
resom.ed the switchmen's board, filed Missouri, Company A, Signal Corps,
a minority report, dissenting from th" date of departure not vet set. Wis
ewarcls of the 5 cents an hour and consin, Brigade headquarter s and
the prorata, overtime. E. F. Potter first Infantry to depart December 27.
of Minneanolis. assistant erneral man-
ager of the Minneapolis, St. Paul &
Sault Ste. .Marie railway, and T. W.
Evans, assistant manager of the New
York Central, representing the rail
roads, also filed a minority report,
dissenting to the eight-hour grant.
The hoard held its first meeting
November 13. 1?L Public hearings
were htld from that date to Decern-; Group 3: From Camp Wilson Ti
ler S, and 4ffi pages of testimony linois. Seventh infantry to depart De
were taken. The original agreement cember 29, en route to Fort Sheridan,
to arbitrate provided for tiling the 111. Kansas. Company A signal corps,
award within thirty days from th? date of departure not yet fixed. Wis
dat of the first hearing. When the consin Field Hospital No. 1 expected
board found it could not live up to to depart for Fort Sheridan Deeem
the tigresment, a supplemental one ber 29.
w as drawn, extending the time to ' From Llano Grande Minnesota, Sec
l)ecembor 20. Just about that time ! ond infantry ready to depart Jan li
the differences between the memte ? ary 4.
were still so great it was learnel : From Mercedes North Dakota, First
another extension was arranged, ex
piring today.
The award makes no mention of
th date the nw wage s;al hoc. m'-s
effective, but it was assumed by rail
road oflicials that it would apply at
once.
Proceed With Neciotiations
Or.CTRI.ANI). Ohio. Dec 23 The
railroad trainmen next week will pro-'
ceed with their eight-hour day nego-
(Continued on Page Two)
OPPOSITION 10 11 WOULD
hn
Republican A. P. Leased Wbe
WASHINGTON, . Dec 23. Con
gressional leaders tonight regarded
Representative Gardner's announced
opposition to republican leader Mann
as of much importance, since a bit
ter fight on the republican side of
the house would make certain, it Is
declared, the re-election of Speaker
Clark.
It is not so much the withdrawal
of representative Gardner's personal
rupport of Mr. Mann that excites in
terest among the leaders as it is the
eventualities that may result in the
entire progressive republican element.
At least thirty Republicans is has
been generally reported, are strongly
in favor of a more progressive policy
, on tne repu jlican ride and while n-
such number as this are openly op- j
poed tr. Mr. Mann for speirker, they!
want declaration of progressive
principles from whomever they sup
port for the place before they pledge
themselves.
Thus far Representative Tenroot
has made no formal announcement1
of his candidacy for the speakership, !
although h has been urged to do so
bv sime progressive Republicans.
At present neither Democrats nor i
Republicans apparently are absolutely
R USSIAN. REAR G UARD
SLO WLY BEING PRESSED
BACK BY THE TEUTONS
n-
ONE HOUR TO -LICKER
UP" NEW YEAR'S EVE
Republocan A. P. Leased Wire I
CHICAGO. Dec. 23. Chief of I
Police Healey issued final orders I
to commanding officers today to I
restrict the sale of liquor new '
years eve to the one hour be- 1
tween midnight Sunday night and 1
and one o'clock Monday morn- I
ing. He ordered them to arrest I
proprietors of all cafes where liq- I
nor was sold but not to molest I
the patrons. 'The saloons are I
closed Sunday until midnight un- I
der the state law. and are closed I
agem at t o'clock under the city I
ordinance. I
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SA.' ANTONIO, Texas, Dec. 23.
Major General Frederick Funston gave
out tonight the dates set for the de
parture of various organizations from
the border, ordered mustered oat of
federal te.vice. The three groups in
which the units have been divided
and the dates follow:
Group 1, from Llano Ctramle, In
diana, Company A sigr.al corps; and
Ambulance Company No. 1, to depart
December 27; First Batallion field ar
tillery, less battery 1), 'December 29,
en route to Fort Benjamin Harrison.
Nebraska Fourth Infantry to dei art
December 26, on route to Fort Crook,
Neb.
From Eagle Pass, Maryland Field
Hospital No. 1, and Ambulance Com
pany No. 1. equipment awaiting, can
not depart until destination is known.
From I-aredo, Missouri, Troop H,
First Cavalry Field Hospital, So. 1,
and Ambulance Company No. 1.
Scheduled to depart for Kilry, Kas.,
delayed awaiting arrival of Troop B.
from detached service at F-ir Fcrd
ranch: expect to depart December 26.
From McAllen, New York Ambul
ance Company No. 3. Ready to de
part awaiting information as to ul
timate destination.
From El Paso, Michigan 31st IM&tfr
try to depart Dec. 27, enroute to Fort
Wr.yne, Mich.; Pennsylvania, division
headquarters second Brigade head
quarters Signal Batallicn and Fourth
Infantry ready to depart January 3 to
6: Sixteenth Infantry to depart
January 8. Ultimate destinations for
Pennsylvania organizations not yet
known.
Group 2, from Laredo, Missouri
Brigade headquarters and second In-
From McAllen, New York beyond
Field Artillery, expected to move Dc
cemher 29.
From Pharr New York Twenty
third infantry reported as ready De
cember 4. Destinations for New York
organizations not yet known.
From Brownsville Virginia First
infantry ready to depart January 2.
infantry, date of departure not yet
rixeu. New iork rield hospital com
pany No. 3, date of departure not vet
fixed. -I ifB
From El Paso Michigan brigade
headquarters and Thirty-second Infan
try ready to depart December 27. .
However, General Bell states they
cannot move until the completion of
movement of troops in Group 1. Penn-
sylvania First cavalry ready to depart
January 9. Ambulance company No.
'Continued on Page Two!
TROOPS MAKE
HEADY TD MOVE
FROM RORDER
RE-ELECTION OE CLARK
certain of a majority of the house,
leaders of both sides claim majori
ties but at least three- seats are In
doubt and there twill be two Pro
gressives, one Socialist, one Inde
pendent and one Prohibitionist, mak
Ing the situation extremely uncertain.
Gardner Repudiates the
Zeadership of Mr. Mann
Republican A- P. Leased Wire
CINCINNATI, Dec. 23. Represen-
tUtive AlieOflftla Onrlna TV
sachusetts, in a 'statement here to-
nigni , repudiated the leadership in
congress of Representative Jamea R.
Mann, because of his endorsement of
President Wilson's peace note- to tha
European belligerents, and savs he
will support Representative Lenroot
of Winconsin for speaker when con
gress convenes. The statement fol
lows: "I have read the endorsement which
the leader of my party in contrresa
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
Slowly yielding to the Teuton pres
sure, the Russian rear guard in Wal
lachia and Dobrudja are being pressed
backward to the north. Heavy fight
ing is in progress in the vicinity of
Kimnik-Sarat, midway between the
Buzeu and Sereth rivers in Wallachia.
Russian advance posts at Bakovitcheni,
in the foothills of the mountains west
of Rimnlk-Sarat, were compelled to
retire after battles at this point and
at Vadulsoresci. An engagement at
Balatchenul, south of Rimnik-Sarat,
also is recorded, indicating that the
Russian lines still protect that town.
These engagements are regarded by
some Teutonic military critics as an
effort on the part of the Russians and
the Rumanians to cover the retreat of
their armies and of the Rumanian ref
ugees across the line of the Sereth
river mid to cover the flank of the
Russo-Rumanian armies fighting in
the Carpathian mountains of Moldavia.
In Dobrudja, the Russian-Rumanian
defensive line is reported to have with
drawn northward until it is only thir
teen miles south of the northern ex
trernity of that province.
Only artillery activity is recorded on
the Russian front in the vicinity of
Baranovichi.
Big guns are active also in the re
gion of Hardaumont and Chambrettees,
near Verdun.
Operations on the Macedonian front
are being preventsd by bad weather.
The American ambassador at 1'etro
grad delivered the German peace note
to the Russian government Saturday
and President Wilson's note to the
belligerent governments was handed
to the Italian foreign minister by the
American ambassador at Rome.
It is unlikely that the reply of the
entente powers to the German note
will be dispatched before Monday, and
it may be delayed for ten days, ac
cording to the British foreign office.
This is attributed to the delays in com
munication. It is reported in Paris,
however, that the reply is almost fin
ished. Rumors are circulating that the
entente answer is being drawn up at
Rome to be forwarded thence to. Ger
many. It is estimated that the losses of
British shipping resulting from the
war total 435 steamer vessels, each of
more than 1,600 tons, or 12 per cent of
all steamships owned in Great Britain
at the beginning of the conflict. ' "
The British Report
LONDON. Dec. 24 The report from
British headquarters in France issued
last night reads:
"We successfully raided enemy
trenches south of Ypres last night, in
flicting many losses. The enemy, in
turn, after a heavy bombardment, raid
ed our lines near Boesinghe, causing a
few casualties.
"There was considerable artillery
activity n -bSYh sides during the dav
before the Ancre and the Sjimme and
In the Loos area. East of Boiles we
effectively bombarded hostile trenches
and south of Pye our fire dispersed a
large enemy party."
A report of the Mesopotamian cam
paign sent out officially today reads:
"On the morning of December 21.
British airplanes dropped nearly a ton
it explosives on the' Turkish ad
vanced base and on shipping near
Pf-ghela. twenty-five miles vDst of
Ku-El-Amara.
"On the same day, hostile trenches
on the south bank of the Tigris near
Kut-El-Amara and on the north bank
near Sannayyat were subjected to a
heavy artillery bombardment. Air
plane observers reported that both
bombardments were very effective
At dawn December 22, a second air
plane raid on the Turkish base near
Baghtla was carried out."
The German Report
BERLIN, Dec. 2.:, (by wireless to
Savtilfet. The report on the cam
paign on the various fronts, issued
b- the German headquarters today
says
"Western war theater: In the Ypres
and Wytschaete sectors yesterday the
artillery reached a considerable in
tensity. Southwest of Ypres, English
detachments attacked but were re
pulsed by our fire and at one place in
haid-to-hand fighting. South of Boes
inghe several of our patrols entered
hostile trenches and brought bac
prisoners, machine puns and other
booty.. ,
"On the Champagne and Meuse
fronts there was only moderate ac
tivity. In the Vosges northwest of
Muenster, German raiding detach
ments took a French sapping post by
surprise Near l'rapelle, north of the
.t Die nd south of br thin-TM-'.rt
canal, French detachment attacking
after strong artilleiy preparation v.x.e
repulsed.
"Eastern war theater: Prince Leo
pold's front: There is nothing of im
portance to report.
"Archduke Joseph's front: In tho
wooded Carpathians there were sev
eral patrol engagements during which
irisoners and machine guns were
brought in. South of Meste-Caneaci,
ustro-Hun?arian detachments recap
tured from the Russians an advanced
positions which recently had been
abandoned.
"Field Marshal von Macken3en's ar
my group in Dobrudja: Teutonic
troops took several Russian rear
guard positions after intense storming
and occupied Tulcca on the river.
Njmber of prisoners reached more
than 1,600. Several machine-guns and
other booty were taken.
"Macctfcnian front: In the region
of Lake Doiran there was some ar-
(Continued on rage Two)
gave yesterday to President Wilson's
offer of interference, in European af
fairs. This is the fourth or fifth time
that Leader Mann has given encour
agement to Germany's w'icked cause.
So far as 1 am concerned, I shall tol
erate f-uch leadership no longer.-
"I believe that the happiness of the
world requires the destruction of th
dynasties of th3 Hapsburgs and the
Hoheiizollerns. For that reason, with
very sincere regret, I repudiate Con
gressman Mann's leadership. I shall
support Lenroot of Wisconsin for
speaker when congress convenes." :
THE'THH EE- GENT
EARECASEISOH
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN FRANCISCO, Dec. 23. Offi
cials of the state of Arizona and the
Southern Pacific railroad began here
today a series of conferences ti sim
plify the record of the federal court
in the railroad's attack on a 3-cent-a-mile
fare order of the Arizona state
corporation commission.- It was ex
pected the conference will terminate
about January 6.
Representing Arizona are R. William
Kramer, assistant attorney general;
F. A. Jones, Arizona state corporation
commissioner, and W. N. Sangster,
secretary of the commission.
R. William Kramer, assistant at
torney general, F. A. Jones, chairman
of the corporation .commission,, and
W. N. Sangster, secretary Of the com
mission, left here Thursday to attend
the conference at San Francisco.
The purpose of the conference is to
decide with the railroad's attorneys
just what evidence is to be introduced
to classify and separate it in such a
manner that the hearings before the
federal court will be expedited.
Tile case in question resulted when
the corporation .commission, after a
lengthy hearing held in the supreme
court chambers at the state house,
handed down a decision lowering the
passenger rates on practically all the
railroads in the state to 3 cents. The
railroads immediately appealed the
case to the federal courts, where it has
been pending since.
It is expected that the conference
between the Arizona officials and the
railroad attorneys will result in the
calling of the case at the next Bession
in Phoenix.
The contest thus far between the
railroads and the state has been one
of the biggest legal battles ever fought
in the state; The mass of testimony
introduced on both sides is of an intri
cate nature, and the experts called on
the stand gave details to such an ex
tent that it has been found necessary
to separate the wheat from the chaff
before the ca.se is called.
LIEUT. CROMPTON EXCHANGED
fResublican A. P. Leased Wire
BERLIN. Dec. 23. (Wireless to Say
ville) Lieutenant Crompton, comman
der of the German submarine U-41. has
been exchanged and sent to Switzer
land. He was one of the two Burvivors
of the L'141, which was sunk by the
British.
o
PIPJE LINE TO CHICAGO
rperublicin A. P. Leased Wire
TOPEKA. Kas.. Dec. 23. Applica
tion by the Sinclair-Cuiihy Pipe Line
company, a Maine corporation, for per
mission to operate a pipe line as com
mon carriers in Kansas was filed today
with the state public utilities commis
sion. It was announced some time ago
that the Sinclair interests would con
struct a pipe line from the Kansas oil
fields to Chicago.
Now Comes Walker
With Claim Cheated
Out Of Election
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SPRINGFIELD, 111., Dec. 23. John
H. Walker, president of tho Illinois
Federation of Labor and a candidate
against John P. White of indianapolis
for president of the United, Mine
Workers of America, here today
openly charged workers of the Inter
national organization with fraud in
the election December 12, and said
he would file protests with the can
vassing board.
Walker said be was informed that
Local 104, of Throop, Pa., had cast a
unanimous vote for White, when only
twelve members were present, and
that at Dorothy, W. Vs., men were
voted who were not in good ttandirg.
"I do not admit, that I am de
feated," said Walker today.
o
F
E
BERNSTOFF FOR PAGE ONE
(Special to The Republican)
PHILADELPHIA, Pa., Dec. 23. Ap
propriate to the Christmas season, the
Public Ledger asked the German am
bassador at Washington, Count von
Bernstorff for a message to the public
as an expression on pea?e and good
will. The ambassador sent the fol
lowing: "Germany's aim has always been for
a peaceful development and her earnest
hope at this Christmas tide is that af
ter two and a half years of war the old
message of "peace on earth and good
will to all men." may soon be fulfilled.
"With 'the hearts and minds of the
entire world turned toward peace, the
German people are ready for a termi
nation of the conflict on. terms honor
able to all concerned, guaranteeing
lasting peace and security in the
future."
(Signed) J. BERNSTORFF,
German Ambassador.
-
i OTIS GIVES HOME
FOR ART GALLERY.
! LOS ANGELES. Cal., Dec. 2J.
I A Christmas gift of "The Biv- I
I ouac," formerly the home of Gen-
I eral Harrison Gray Otis, president
I and general manager of the Los i
! Angtleg Times, was presented to I
I the coupty todav by General At's I
i for us as an art gallery. The I
t property is valued at $100,000. I
BHOF
m EARTH
GOOD W L TO All
JUST AND
IEEMS TO
VAGUE
MARSHALLS HERE; DO
SOME XMAS SHOPPING
His overcoat missing, the bosom of
his lieht bine serge business coat flar-
ing and his head back, Thomas Riley !
Marshall, an eminent resident of j coati eoiar and tie on a hook and de
Scottsdale, traipsed about the streets ; manded a shave. Some chap in the
of Phoenix yesterday, sniffing the cool j next chair glimpsed the next to the
.. . , . . ... highest man In national official cir-
but not biting air, and enjoying his ' ,ps and preated ,iuite a furore in the
first surcease from winter this season, tonsorial emporium by loudly whisper
Mr. and Mrs. Marshall arrived from ing his discovery.
their other home in Indianapolis, thpir j "My mind is on Christmas," said Mr.
some-time home in Washington and i Marshall, "and not much on business
other points in the cold east, yesterday or politics." And not a blessed word
shortly before noon. I about congress could be secured from
Instead of proceeding at once to ieir the president of the senate,
cottage at Scottsdale, the Marshalls ; The Marshall will pass the holidays
went to the Hotel Adams, a committee I with Mr. and Mrs. William E. Kimsey,
of the Chamber of Commerce having j also of Scottsdale, and will return to
met and greeted them. Disposing of i Washington and the whirl of the busy
their effects, they stepped out and en- j law-making and social season only
joyed a period of earnest Christmas i after they have rested well and M
shopping, mingling with the holiday I sorbed enough Arizona sunshine to
crowds on the streets and in the stores! last them until back east thaws out-in
and disdaining other means of locomo- the merry, merry springtime.
ECOil MR
S!
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, Dec. 23. Whether the
present moves to end the great war
prove "effective or abortive" they viv
itUv surest the economic disturbance!
that is bound to occi in this country
when peace does come. , according to
Haipn M. t,asiey, cnairman or me ex -
,s ii .i ,
. o! u.e .uu, -"
announcing today that
eting of the federation
Federation, in
the annual meet
win oe neiu nere January it ana Ji.
URETO FOLLOW
GflEAT C0MFLIC1
"Already, in one of the nations at j retary of the Inter-Parliament union, j jts actual terms there will be no La.';
war," said Mr. Easley, a joint commit- i expressed the hope that the entente for negotiation and no possibility"
tee of employers and employes is try-' powers would demand concrete pro-ipeaco tjjj the world is bled white o'';
ing to arrange an industrial truce to ' posals from the Teutonic allies but i ejajs declare.
operate f..r the termination of the con-j at the same' time be ready to state There is not the slightest exjieta'
flict. In another nation co-operative; their own fundamental conditions, j here that tne terms lajd down w.ii :
schemes of almost every description : after vnlch. he said, opportunities j reConcilaljJe at first. It is known " i
backed by the government, are being! w.ouU'. for. themselves to clear up i some of tne nations wilI demand u...
formed in preparation for the economic tne "'ho.e situation- jm actuality they compose. Neve ; Is-
war that is sure to follow the military Professor Morgentstierne, rector of less, the naming of those terms ';
engagements. Chri-tiania university, expressed the : fori a basis of negotiations, a sta: .
"Can the great industrial forces of fr that conditions and assumptions j rMace from which the conflicting r.
the United States be brought into o( the belligerent were too conflict- est can begin to converge,
a mere harmonious relation that they , ln" to hl,e for a speedy' pacific senti- j Nor is pny embarrassment set! :
may give the best that is in them to ! m""' .. . j any of the nations in naming
meet these grave problems, is the ques- V!maJ" "ranting, t . e bwedisn ; terms. It is understood in advance th .
tion which the federation hopes to be i so"al'st leoder SiUd- . they are apt to fluctuate with the m.l -
able to have answered in the affirma- ; ,,""!:,,,c? itar' conges and are not permanw.il
live at its annual meeting between the ! f ,a? Mrt'ms- ll;d shown the un- , binding tinder new conditions. Wha
, ul 1 ucl l c broken power of her militaryistic PV(:r anv nation feels miiwt he im-ii,
leaders of these forces." a demand for a full definition ! . y nau-on teels' ,mUht be lnUua"
.ihwt tn he mniflorH at the I uemana ior a iuu aenniuon I ln lts tfrms for moral reasons, can a
.....rr v
meeting of the federation will include:
The lesson from the mobilization on
the Mexican border."
"The indifference, if not possitive op
position, of the wage earners and far -
mer8 to all preparedness programs.
Will there be a flood of immigra.
tion or a flood of emigration?
tary efficiency, copy the paternalistic
social program of Germany?"
"Can the great forces of production
of lajjor and of finance be cemented
into one big force to grapple with the
on-coming -problems?"
Among those who will make reports
as heads of departments will be August
Belmont, Warren S. Stone. John Hays
Hammond, Miss Maude Wetmore
A -
B. Parker and I'rof. Jeremiah
Jenks.
W.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NHW YORK, Dec. 23. Celebration of
Christmas began here today with a big
tree on the floor of the board room in
the stock exchange for the employes of
the exchange and their families! There
were gifts of toys, candy and boxes for
the children. Presents also were pro
vided by brokers for the poor families
living in the "hack yard" of Wall street,
one of the most densely populated dis
tricts in the city. There was no lack
of cheer for the workers in the finan
cial districts themselves, for the distri
bution of bonuses yesterday and today
was on an unprecedented scale.
Tho combination of a Saturday half i
holiday with Sunday preceding the hol-
lday sent many thousands of persons
out of the city for holiday visits to
friends and relatives. Trains on all
railroads were literally packed with
outgoing travelers and those coming
into the city brought almost as many
visitors.
In police stations throughout the city,
gifts will be distributed tomorrow to
thousands of poor children. The police
themselves collected funds for this pur-
pose among the shopkeepers and others
in their respective precincts. At One
station, tovs and other articles worth
approximately $5,000 wil. be distributed
to more than 2,000 children.
Vaudeville and motion picture enter-
tainments also will be provided in sev-
eral of the stations. These will he at-
CELEHT1 OF CHRISTMAS
IS BEGUN ON STOCK EXCHANGE
I tended by Police Commissioner Woods ouie to the rear of the bandit with a searched for the robber without suc
jand clergymen of various denomina- llrn revolver. He ordered the bandit cess.
PERMANENT PEACE
PRESIDENT WILSON
AND UNDEFINED TERM
i tion than their feet. Mrs. Marshall
proved to oe a gooa snopper.
Later, the vice president slipped un-
tiotir-nr iifo a Vmrhpr short, hiin his
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
HAGUE, Dec. 23, (via London).
Opinions of various prominent men
of Europe as to whether the fieace
, proposals ol ine ceiuiai
should be accepted or rejected by the
e' :J"d hl'' 'peace ha&
: fiesuons tor a propo.sea peace nave
j , n gatn b, the bureau at The
iii'isne i me x 1
vtmu. :u-j
Henry Ford s peace movement. Among
,h s received are the follow-
, ing. ....
; christian Lange of Chrtstiania, sec -
OI war aims must ne put IOriWaro.
bv democratic parties . on hoth sides
as the starting point for a common
movement toward peace. The estab-
lishment of international order and
j justice must be "tawed upon the nl-
ted power of all nations which un-
dertal.e to recognize such order. Com-
i petitive armament then will disappear
erably lightened. Democratic control
m .,L.t hn ..., l,l;.,V.n.4 I. ..-nn
politics. The issues affecting strongly
intermingled nationalities will be dis-
posed of bv extensive democratic self
government"
"T:ie entente nations would be un -
wise to decline unconditionally to
consider peace proposals, in the'opin-
ion of Dr. Svente Arrhenius. presi -
fdent of the Nohel Institute of Stock-
(Continued on Page Two)
tions as well as persons of prominence
living in tne precincts.
Special Christmas services have been
a.rranired for tomorrow in nmirlv- all tho'
churches, including St. Patrick's Oat-e-
dral, the Cathedral of St. John the Di-
vine '"d Trinity.
HAGUE BUREAU
I GATIIERSIK
Ti 01 PEACE PLAN
i
I
I
Lone Bandit Fails In Try
At Holding Up Train
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SIOUX CITY, Iowa, Dec. 23. A ban-
', dit made a futile attempt to hold up
passengers in the smoking car of a
Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul train
from Chicago, as it was entering the
yards here tonight. The bandit es-
1 capea with $10 in cash after a few
I shots had been exchanged with pas-
senders and he had leaped through a
1 window while the train was in motion,
I ,Tne. bandit boarded the train at
Morningside. a suburb.
v lth a mask drawn over his face
loyimer in nis nana tne
man commanded J. Robbins, of Jeff er-
1 s.""' b- 1- ? begin taking up a collec-
L'n" from the other passengers. After
3) had been collected Will Beath, of
Plumbush Colo, appeared in the ves-
10 PURPOSE
OF NOTE IS TO
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Dec. 23. Informa
tion as to the exact meaning in seeking
a "just and permanent peace" is the
whole purpose of the note addressed to
all belligerents by President Wilson.
Tho United States desires a full, prac
tical and detailed statement from e'ach
of the governments addressed. This
outline and what follows was-stated oi
ficially today for the administration.
This official said the government
does not know and feels that it has
been given no real means of knowing
what terms would be required by each
of the belligerents to make peace. It
regards the recent speeches of the
leading statesmen in all countries as
vague and undefined and sees nothing
in them that would enable a conference
to draw up a treaty. All speak of the
rights of small nations, the repugnance
of conquest and the guarantees of a
permanent peace, but no one nation hat
yet gone into what it means by thn.
'phrases in a way tnat the government
of the United States can unuerstanu.
Recent press comment has beer,
taken to enhance that vagueness.
France, for instance, has not discloseu
if what she considers a just peace
means the evacuation of her northern
province or in addition to that the res
toration of Alsace-Lorraine, or if i::
addition to both those claims she ex
pects. a money indemnity for the dam
age of invasion, or beyond that if she
has an actual program for doing aua;
with so-called German militarism. L.
short, the United States asks wlui;
would she accept todav as the basi
-one
! 'miIar iSSUes 'ppIy t0 a11 the bt""
,. t rnnntri in m.rplv n v irv
;
i their details. As
the largest neuti
, I,,". B
j atKS3yt.
I it is entitled to know those facts. Uu
problems, and as tr,
, ies,4 KOme one lf tnB erollDS lavs
Bn he arlrteri to the term without or,,.
. barrassment, it is said,
Ag to permallent Guarantees, it wa
nfflria,lv Apc,h,T(,d ,h. ,ha i-n
j 0"' tZ ma-'
I nat Ao-,ra,,,a tit
whether permanent peace is to be se
cure bv force, if necessary, or by law.
one plan and President Wilson is en-
, ' .1. j - . .v .
tJl ls tnf administration's view that
! th ?ountrytca" 1 committed to a,
; abandonment of th policy of isolation
! mu.oh as President Monroe committor
I u ,0 the Monrle doctrine without sen
I ate action. In the plans so far content
, 'J"l-Cu- """ever, 11 is piuuauie ine 11a-
.tions would be bound by treaty agree
ments which would necessarily have to
j bo ratified by the senate, so far as the
United States is concerned.
' A -fuller understanding of the em
barrassment caused to the adminis
! tra jon by the coincidence of its note
i with the German proposals was given
I today when it was learned that, despite
I the early unfavorable effect which the
j note was expected to have in the allied
countries tnrougn mat iact, it was de
cided to risk it in view of the great in
terests involved. It is expected it
may be some time before the American
viewpoint will be accepted abroad, but
it is felt that in the end it certainly
will prevail. ,
It also is stated most emphatically
that the note was not rushed off on
Monday in order to get to Premier
T.lovii fipnrrfl hpfro ho hoH S-a.-r,-i
bly committed the allies against peace
1 ,
(Continued on Page Two:
, to throw up his hands. The bandit
I swi;ner flronnd onicklv nnd. firH at
1 Beath as the latter took shelter behind
i a partition. Several shots were fired
by Beath and the bandit,
The bandit grabbed the collection
j which Robbins had taken up and
, kicked the glass from the nearest win-
; dow and leaped through. Most of the
cash collected by Robbins was dropped
on the car floor during the exchange
of shots. Many passengers hid under
the seats.
I A piece of glass deflected by the
pullet from the bandit's gun struck
Beath over the eye,-causing a deep
I but not serious wound..
Beath believes his first shot hit tho
( robber.
; Railroad detectives and ooliee
LEARNJEAN1
