IFINANCIAL edition
Wtytx
NIGHT
EXTRA
4
tAttti
NIGHT
EXTRA
I V0. IL-NO. 292
rmiiADELPniA, monjday, aug-ust si.-toio.
Cortaiant, 1010, st tubPcbuo LxtKita Courinr.
wl
BULGARS PRESS
ON TO KAVALA;
'SIX MILES OFF
Greek Cabinet Called in Spe
cial Session to Consider
Invasion
ALLIES GAIN NEAR DOIRAN
War Moves on All Fronts
Outlined for Quick Reading
1 Balkan front The Bulbars,
over the Greek border at
vcrnl points, nrc within six miles
of the port of Knvnln. The Hel
lenic Government is greatly dis
turbed. The Cabinet has been
called in special session. The Brit
ish announce fresh success by
their troops in the Lake Doirnn rc
eion. Battle still in progress be
tween Bulgnrs and Serbs in the
Fiorina sector.
2 Russian front The Rus
t sians, temporarily halted on
the center by von Bothmer's counter
strokes, are attacking with success
both wing3 of the southern half of
the Teutons' front, in the Kovel sec
tor and in the Jnblonitza zone. In
both places Petrograd announces
progress.
3 West front Using liquid
fire in great quantities, the
Germans made n determined effort
to recapture Ficury, on the Verdun
front, last night, but were beaten
off by the French. Gusts of gun
fire mark an incessant artillery ex
change on the Somme front.
ATHENS, Aug. 21.
Bulgarian troops are reported within 10
kilometers (6.2 miles) of the Greek port, of
Kivala, in their advance to attack the
Allies' right wine. In the omclal bulletin
of th French Chief of Staff at Salonlca
The Greek Cabinet lias been called Into
iptclal session because of the DulGarlan
tdrance Into Greek territory, Generali
Mojchppoulos. Sottllls and Ghenadls at
tending the conference.
1 The British and Krench Ministers con
tend with Premier Zalmls, who Immediately
utterward Bummoned tho chief of staff of
the Greek nrmy. The discussion turned on
Our question of withdrawing portions of tho
Greelfmy and civilians from tho terri
tory occupied by the Bulgars.
felvala, a port of about 5000 popu
lation, with considerable trade, was taken
from Turkey by Greeco In tho Balkan war.
r tt lies 18 mllci west of tho Bulgarian bor
Jr and has long been coveted by tho Bui
lira.) 'The Government Is watching: the Bul
prtan invasion of Greek territory with In
tense Interest. Tho newspaper Patrls says
tie Cabinet thus far has reached no decision
ia4 will await further developments.
.From tho military standpoint tho Bul
lulin advance Is considered unimportant,
W" far as the Allies are concerned. Tho
Bulbars apparently aro trying to seize
itrateglc positions on the allied flanks, from
hlch to deliver attack when the expected
allied offensive begins.
ROME, Aug. 21. It Is reported from
Wonlca that the Bulgarian commander In
chief has asked tho Greek commandants In
t eutern Macedonia to give up their forts
I and evacuate the district. The .Greek of
fers are awaiting word, from Athens,
pere great uncertainty exists.
Continuing their offensive against the
Bulgarian center In the Dolran region, the
British troops are steadily advancing An
cBcJal communique iBsued at general head-
(barters here today announced that dur
fc the night the Britons had advanced 2000
Hd more than a mile on a front of
90 yards.
VThe French troops are also winning sue-
Imj, having captured, after fierce resistance,
tjcn)val work, to the south Of DoUzell.
) The communique Indicates that the Bui-
gewu army lias taken tho orrensive on us
fwtfre front, stating that the Bulgars have
miti the Greek frontier at several points.
'Balgarian forces are engaged in sharp
t
Continued on Fnco Four, Column Tho
1 THE WEATHER
l FllPrH On n1r nnimni1IUM
I2iivao.j run rwojijKim
mft', Ntu Dlicovtrv in Solar Phvslci.
WIMH i. UOOBE and Y. O, ClROTUEltS
matey, August 2.7 ; Monday, August 28 ;
j iucsaay, Augusrzs Tne opening aaya
W week will be fair, with moderate tern-
nlas, growing warmer.
Woeday, August 3 ; Thursday, August
AW Friday. September 1 Showers
Mdnetday will precede a cooj movement
i tuursaay with 10 or IS degrees cooler
peraturea.
lurday, September 2 The week wll
With warmer temneraturea returning
aubject to showers.
Mineral weather movements due:
coot movement is due to develop In
" united Statea August 2S and
" ft lHOdtrfltn in avaraBn mnvmriAnt
PfCfded hv txrAlt1lDtIKl.u1 nUn,A-a noaf.
forth C4llfelllfe llll ItUOl fit W
JZZZ w1 xu l0 1& degrees cooler
(fattier movement, due Aurust 31. will
moderate, bringing: showera along1 north
11 u r Htatea and the L0 region,
ht temperature changes there.
GOVERNMENT FORECAST
L$r Philad mirth in nl nii-il KV.V
Snt and Tirnhrthl,, Qirln... ,,
Ki ntorferafeZj warm; lightsouth'
I.E,NQTII OF DAY,
5 IT a m iMoon rUc . . 1st p m.
MJpm. IMoon souths, PSi7p.ro.
H
MU
BEIAWARK HIV Ell CHANGES.
H1KSTNUT STBEET
" 2 23 m. ILavr water 2 IS P m.
'r t It i.ti fHleb, r.Ur 845 m.
JWPE8ATVBK at each houb.
MAGISTRATE'S CLUB UNDER BAN
Vfr'
SW'-fcwib
tr -r
m$MM$ tf a'KiWHBi MawsgBg4 jM miimmvgMsHwawrm
rhoto by t.edccr l'hoto Titrol.
This is the building of the Twentieth Ward Republican Club, 1527
North Broad street, from which its chief patron, Magistrate "Joe"
Call, has been barred, to his intense indignation. A police quarantino
has been established at the door on tho ground that it is a gambling
resort. One of the police guards is seen comfortably installed.
WORK ON TRANSIT
CAN'T BE LET FOR
NEXT 2 MONTHS
Bonds Will Be Offered for
Sale Late in Sep
tember ADVERTISED 30 DAYSN
Whu Transit Contracts
Must Wait Two Months
THE first bonds for new work on
the subway and elevated lines will
not be plnced on the market until the
last of September, according to City
Controller Walton.
Unless bids for the work arc ad
vertised at once, it will be a month
after that before contracts can bo
nwarded, as the law requires that
bids be advertised for 30 days.
Even the plans to float the first
bonds, authorized in the $114,000,000
loans voted for last spring, are in
definite, according to tho City Con
troller. Contracts for the construction of tho
subway and eleated lines, for which the
people voted J57.100.000 Inst spring, will
not be awarded for two months if the cltj
administration carries out the plans It has
made for selllns the bonds for the first of
the work.
According to present plans, no bonds will
be offered for sale until late in September
at the earliest. It will be at least a month
after that before the contracts will be
awardeo, for building tho first sections of
the rapid transit lues under Director Twin
ing, as specifications for the work must be
advertised for 30 days before the contracts
Plans for floating the Initial Issue of the
bonds authorized In the UH.OQO.QOO loan
Continued un faro Five. Column To
CRAVATOHITIN
FIRST SCORES PASKERT
Alexander Pitches Against Ja
cobs in First Game of Pitts
burgh Doublerlleader
By CHANDLER D. BICHTER
FORBES FIELD, Pittsburgh, Aug 21
A double by Paskert and a single by Craatn
irave Alexander the Great a one-run lead
in the first' game of today's double-header
between the Phillies and the pirates. One
run has been enough to win for Alexander
In six of his last ten games, and the cham
jflona were confident after making tho first
8CE?mer Jacobs, formerly of the Phillies,
opposed Alexander and, while ie was found
tor a run In the opening Inning, he showed
a lot of stuff, striking out three men In this
session FmST jNNINQ
Carey made a great try for Paskert's
drive but It went for a double. Nlehoff
?anne'd Byrne also fanned. Craath sln
iteA to left, scoring Paskert. Whltted also
Struck out One run, two hits, no errors
wanner went out Bancroft to Luderus.
rarey poped the first ball pitched to Byrne.
SEulto also, hit tha first ball pitched and
jat out, Uleaorf to fcuderua. Alexander
QaaUaxti ea fats Two. Cliuaa Xwt
zpvtrv V. v 1
WOULD. KILL CATS
TO CHECK SPREAD
OF BABY SCOURGE
Health Authorities Urge
War on Animals as Source
of Contagion
4 ADDITIONAL DEATHS
Record of Infant Plague
From Midnight to 3 P. M.
New cases in Philadelphia 3
Deaths in Philadelphia 4
Deaths in Camden and vicinity.. 2
New cases in Camden and v(cinity 3
New cases in New Jersey 63
New cases in Now York 92
Deaths in New York 33
Cats ns probable carriers of Infantile
pnraljslH germs wcro attacked today, when
four additional deaths and three new
teases, one of which resulted In almost Im
mediate death, wcro reported.
Scientific warfare against cats, which he
suspects of spreading the plague, was ad
ocated by Jame P. McCrudden, chief of
the diWsIon of housing and sanitation His
stand was commended by Dr. Samuel O
Dixon, State Health Commissioner, ulio
declared that cats aro dangerous
"Cats ara a prolific source of contagion,"
said, Doctor Dixon. "I cannot warn pa
rents too emphatically against allowing
their children to play with the dirty ani
mals It li quite possible that cats Bpread
Infantile paralysis, for It Is known that
they have communicated diphtheria and
Bcarlet fever."
Quarantine has no effect on the free
movements of cats from house to house,
Chief Crudden pointed out.
"On one occasion In an Infected district
I saw a house being fumigated, with a
policeman at the front door and another
at the backdoor, to prevent any one leav.
Ing," he said. 'Then out walked two big,
dirty, black cats, and ran Into the house
next door. Now, who knows how many
germs those cats carried with them?
"I am firmly convinced that cats carry
the germ of Infantile paralysis from street
tq house and from home to home. For that
reason I truly hope that doctors will study
Continued en l'ajo Fire, Column lira
Sold Out!
rpHATS what your news
x dealer may tell you after
September I unless you
order the Evening Ledger sent
ou dally.
After September 1 no un
sold copies can bo returned by
newsdealers, carriers or news
boys. Consequently they will
order only the actual number
of copies their customers need.
Tell your newsdealer, carrier
or newsboy Now to reserve a
copy for you. By doing that
jou will make sure of your
Evening Ledger and help your
dealer.
Place, your order NOW.
'JUDGE' JOE CALL
INDICTED IN VICE
CLEAN-UP BY JURY
Magistrate Charged With
Accepting Straw Bail
for Women
BARRED FROM HIS CLUB
Record of "Judge" Call's
Doings and "Bickerings'
MAGISTRATE CALL'S indict
ment recall1? the fact that ho
has been "good" nlmost n yenr.
Exposure of straw-bnil scandals in
his office two years ago so frighten
ed him that he rushed to Mr. Uotnn's
office and promised to be good.
Fired his notorious constable, Jako
Gilman, nnd withdrew defense nid
for "Izzy" Lipkin, who was sent to
jail.
Scandal center since his election as
magistrate in Dave Lane's ward.
Hi", constable, Gilman, first pot
him in trouble in June, 1011. Ex
tortion charges figured then. Gil
man was the accused nnd he went
fice.
In February, 1014, came straw
bail scandal. Isadore Wolfe went
to jail.
In June, 1015, came big straw-bail
scandal. Witness who turned Stnte's
evidence told how thieves, divekeep
ers nnd crooks generally had organ
izations to gain prisoners' releases
for money. Two of them went to
jail.
Following September came an
other scandal. Then he got hi3
fright, told District Attorney ho
would reform, and flred the notorious
Gilman.
Following that he kept out of print
until tho probing Grand Jury made
its presentment sevcrnl weeks ago.
They recommendcd Call be indicted
for accepting false bail for 10
women arrested in big vice raid.
When Mayor Smith heard what
Call had done, ho said, "Call must
be trying to brenk into jail."
Grand Jury today indicted him.
Mngtstrato "Joe" Call, corpulent "straw
ball Judge" and boss of a gnmbllng club
which poses as a political organization, was
Indicted today by tho August Grand Jury
for malfeasance In office.
This Is tho Bccoml big Jolt which the Call
dynasty hns reccled within 24 hours. The
first landed jesterday, when a police quar
antine was placed on tho "Judgo's" pol
itical club, known as tho Twentieth Ward
Republican Club, 1S27 North Broad street.
Still another bomb exp!o'i In the
trenches of the Call forces when Judgo
McMichael In Quarter Sessions Court Issued
a bench warrant for tho arrest of E. II.
Beaumont, -who was Indicted last week by
tho August Grand Jury on three counts
Impersonating an olllccr, bribery and ex
tortion. Beaumont Is accused of halng posed as a
deputy constable- from Call's nin.ee. It Is
alleged that Call released Pi'zabeth Znldl,
of 1123 Glrnrd axcmi" after Beaumont
had extorted $125 from the woman who was
accused of halng conducted a speakeasy.
It was testified before the July Grand Jury
that the bargain wns mado In Call's office.
Judge McMichael Instructed Charles
SInkler, foreman of tho August Grand Jury,
to hne tho Grand Jury convene In Quarter
Sessions Court at 1 :30 p. m.
The Indictment of Call Is based on the ac
ceptance by him of straw ball In tho amount.
of (8400 for tho release of 18 alleged dis
orderly women arrested In the big raid of
July IB. The bail was furnished by Joseph
Perrottl, who admitted before the July
Continued on Tate To, Column One
INSANE MAN SLASHES
PHYSICIAN IN CAMDEN
Leaps With Razor Upon Former
Coroner, Who Knocks Him
Senseless
A 76.year-o!d man. belleed to be In
Bane, today attacked Dr Wendell P. Win
genden, Camden physician and Republican
politician, cutting his throat with a razor.
The wounds wero slight and Doctor Wln
genden's condition is not regarded as
serious.
The assailant is James Adams, who said
he lived on Warren avenue, Camden, but
who, because of his highly excited state
of mind, was unable further to specify his
address. The old man Is thought to be
suffering from a mental disease, due to
his advanced age.
He had been visiting his daughter, Mrs.
William Shear, whose apartments are
above the physician's office at eighth and
Market streets. He called. upon the doctor
today and complained of Illness. The lat
ter examined him, and, while he was pre
paring a prescription for him, the man
drew a razor from his pocket,
Adams screamed hysterically as he
pounced upon the physician. After he had
been cut several times on the left side
of tho neck Doctor Wlngenden arose and
struck, tho man In the face with his fist,
rendering htm Insensible. He called a
policeman, who arrested him after he had
been revived.
Doctor Wlngenden telephoned for his
friend. Dr. P. W. Marcy, of 331 'Penn
street, who came to his office and sewed
up his wounds.
His assailant had a hearing later be
fore Recorder Staokhouse. He was com
mitted without ball to the Camdea County
Jail pending an laqulry into his mental
condition.
Doctor Wlngenden was formerly Coroner
ramAmn fTnuntv Adams L Said to hava
been arrested six months ago following an
QUICK
PHILLIES J" G.. 101000100 3 7 2
PITTSBURGH. 0020 0- 103X C 8 1
Alexander and Klllefer; Jncobs. nnd Schmidt.
SARATOGA RACING RESULTS
1'lrot race, 2-year-olds, 0 furlongs Loochnrcs, 117, Kcogh, 8 to 5,
3 to b, 1 to i, won; Blind Baggage, 112, Dacles. 8 to D, 1 to 2, 1 to 4,
cecondj Rhone Maiden, 11G, Hoffman, 20 to 1, 7 to 1, 7 to 2, third.
Timc,.l.i2.
PIRATES BEAT
PHILLIES
h o
Paslccrt.cf 12 4 0 0
Niclioff,2l) 0 0 3 A 1
Byrne, 3b 1 0 2 0 0
Cravalh, rf 0 2 1 0 0
Wliiltcd.lf 0 0 1 0 t
Ludorus, lb 0 0 8 0 0
Bancroft, as 0 1 2 ! 0
Killefcr.c 0 13 2 0
Alexander, p 110 10
Totals , 3 7 21 11
RAILWAY CHIEFS END PARLEY WITH WILSON
WASHINGTON, Aug. 21. The milway presidents -went into
conference with President Wilson nt the White House at 2:30 this
afternoon. The conference ended at 3 o'clock.
STEEL COMMON SELLS AT TfEW HIGH
NEW YORK, Aug. 21. Just nt tile close of the steel market
United States Steel common sold at 05, making a now high record.
TWO WORKMEN INJURED BY FALLING WALL
Two men were injured when a wall fell in a building which was
being torn down nt 734 South Fourth street this afternoon. They
walked to the Pennsylvania Hospital and had their injuries drcsfegcl,
after which thoy returned to work.
BRITISH NAVAL BOARD TO CUT RUSSIAN VISIT SHORT -
BI3RM.V, Aug. 21. Tho British Naal Commission, which recently arrived Jn
FetroRrnd, intends to return to England owing to a misunderstanding with tho
commander of the Russian Black Sea fleet, says a Stockholm dispatch to tho Over
seas News Agency.
U. S. PROBES JAPANESE LAND PURCHASE IN PANAMA
WASHINGTON. Aug. 21.-rReports that tho Japanese Government, through a
Spanish agent, has obtained a land concession of GO.000 acres on the Atlantic sea
board of Panama aro being Investigated by secret servico agents of the United
States. Secretary of State Lansing today admitted that tha Investigation is under
way, but lie refused to discuss it further According to the unolllclal reports which
have reached the Htato Department, tho land is to be used by Japan as a naval base.
TWO BRITISH CRUISERS, HUNTING ENEMY, SUNK
LONDON, Aug. 21. Two British light cruisers, the Nottingham and tho Fal
mouth, wero sunk Saturday in the North Sea by German submarines while the
vessels were searching for the German High Seas Fleet, according to an official
announcement issued by the Admiralty Hhortly before midnight. One German sub
marine was destroyed by the British, while another was rammed and possibly sunk,
according to the Admiralty statement.
TROLLEYMEN DEMAND REINSTATEMENT; MAY STRIKE
NEW YORK, Aug. 21. New York Is threatened today with a street-car atrlke
which may Involve surface, elevated and subway lines. Representatives of the
Amalgamated Association of Street and Electric Railway Employes met today with
Mayor Mltchel and informed him that unless the 14 me,n whose re-employment was
refused on the ground that they had been convicted of violating the law during
the recent strike are reinstated, the men would strike. Mayor Mltchel heard the
employes' side of the controversy and then Immediately sent for executive officers
of tho New York Railwajs Company.
SENATE PROBES RUBLEE'S RIGHT TO BE ON TRADE BOARD
WASHINGTON, Aug. 21. The Senate this afternoon adopted Senator Galllnger's
resolution calling on the chairman of tha Federal Trade Commission to inform the
Senate by what authority George F, Rublee la serving as a member of that com
mission. Rublee began service on the commission more than a year ago under
recess appointment by President Wilson, but the Senate rejected his nomination
on May 15 because Senator Galllnger declared him "personally obnoxious." Senator
Qalllngervsays Rublee has continued In office despite the rejection.
ANDREW CARNEGIE IN FEEBLE CONDITION
BA.K HARBOR, Me., Aug. 21. Apparently Jn feeble condition, Andrew Carnegie,
steel magnate, today was off to Mt. Desert Island In his yacht, the Surf, for a few
days' stay, His weakened condition was plainly noticeable when he came ashore
for an automobile ride. Carnegie told frtenqs he 'did not "feel sick, but only tired."
A physician U constantly within call, and attendants are at hand to assist him.
TRIES TO BREAK JAL AVITH COFFEE POT HANDLE
Richard Watklns was caught trying to get out of the Fifteenth and Vino streets
police station early this morning by picking the cell lock with a key he had made
from the handle of a coffee bucket. Watklns was arrested in Germantown on a
burglary charge, brought to City Hall and removed to the district station when the
City Hall cells were fumigated yesterday He had a hearing' today
, 625 AMERICAN FAMILIES RETURN TO MEXICO
MEXICO CITY, Aug 21. Immigration agents at Vera Cruz officially report tKat
about $29 American-tamlUes, virtually all who left Mexico at the last International
crisis have returned through Yera. Crus. -.
NEWS
ALEX IN FIRST " "
PITTSBURGH r h o a e
Warner,3b 0 1110
Carey, cf 10 4 0 0
Schultc.lf 2 2 3 0 0
Hinclininn, rf 10 2 0 1
Johnston, lb 0 0 10 0 0
Baird,2b 0 3 15 0
McCarty.ss 1113 0
Schmitt.c 0 0 4 0 0
Jacobs.p 11110
Totals C 8 27 10 1
PRICE ONJ3 OEKT
WILSON HALTS
R. R. DELAYS IN
NEW SUMMONS
Calls Conference Today and
May Force Strike
Issue i
MAGNATES MAY GIVE IN
Developments of the Dag
in Railroad Strike Crisis
RAILROAD magnates begin to
show signs of wavering on stand
for nrbitration.
Brotherhood leaders remain in
Washington, marking time until the
President mnkes terms with execu
tives. President Wilson to confer with
railway chiefs when nil the addi
tional arrivals hnve reported and
have arranged their statement.
Tho President refuses to waive his
demand that the eight-hour day be
accepted at once or to recede from
his position against arbitration in
the present crisis.
Compulsory mediation hinted at
for future cases, but not to be ap
plied now.
Railroads' increased earnings a'
Inst card to be played by President
in demanding of railway chiefs ac
ceptance of his scheme.
WASHINGTON, Aug. 21. President Wil
son this nftcrnoon suddenly called a halt
on all further dclny In tho negotiations ho
la conducting with tho representatives of
tho railroads of the country to avert the
threatened nntlon-wldo strike.
Tho President called tho railroad heads
to tho Whlto House nt 2:30 this afternoon,
dcsplto their efforts to present further con
ferences until tomorrow. Tho executles
finally agreed.
The railroad heads. In heated conference,
had previously decided to wait until all of
tholr number had i cached Washington. This
decision did not suit the President. Ho de
manded that the; nppcar before him today.
The executives then proposed that ho lay
his settlement plan before thoso railroad
men -who had reached "Washington since
last week's conference. But tho President
Insisted that ho wished all of them to hear
what he had to say.
Tho railroad presidents mado it clear
that several of their colleagues would riot
reach Washington beforo lato tonight, but
tho President declared emphatically he
could wait no longer, and they agreed to
go to the Whlto House.
TO FORCE ISSUE.
Tho Insistence of the President upon an
Immediate conference led to the conclusion
that he had determined to force tho Ibsub.
Word was abroad In Washington that tha
C40 representatives of tho four railway
brotherhoods presenting tho strike demands
havo becomo Impatient, and that strike or
ders had already been drawn and awaited
only signatures to be Issued.
Pressure from tho men for Immediate
action met with a determined atmosphere
of delay among tho railroad executives.
They declared they could not act with any
authority until their attendance was com
plete. Even as they started for tho White House
the presidents Insisted that so far as they
wcro concerned the conference would de
velop nothing. They declared that they
would once more listen to the President's
proposals and take them under considera
tion. The circumstances of tha call led to
a report that tha President was prepared
to set a time limit on tho consideration of
the proposal by the railroads, but White
House officials aserted that tho conference
was called merely Jto "talk things over"
and that no drastic movo was contemplated,
Dissensions were evident In the ranks of
the railway managers who are opposing
settlement of tho controversy on the basis
of President WiUon's eight-hour plan.
A number of the presidents now hers
have taken the position that there Is nothing
they can do but accept the Wilson ulti
matum. And while they are in a minority,
the men close to the White House beltev
that eventually they will have their way.
"There is no intention of putting the
railroads before the good of the country,"
one official declared.
"No one has ever been known to break
the President's conviction on a point once
his mind Is made up," another said.
The President has peculiar powers, of
course, and he may be able to force the
railroads to knuckle down," a third stated.
All of which is taken to Indicate that the
position of tha railway heads Is not one .
from which they cannot be moved.
Additional railway presidents were reach"
Ing Washington in two and threes today.
With those already here they held a con
ference, hoping to develop some counter
proposal that would be acceptable.
OTHER PRESIDENTS ARRIVE.
Louts W. Hill, head of the Great North
ern, arrived at 930 a. m. He received a
hearty greeting from other presidents and
Tailwaymen In the lobby of the Willard
HoteL He declined to talk uiUU he had
had time to go over the situation with other
executives ' ,
Other presidents arriving during the
morning were E. P. Ripley, Santa Fe Jacob
M. Dickinson, former Secretary of War,
now receiver for the Rock Island; Ralph
Peters, Long Island; a R. Gray. Western,
Maryland, and L. E. Johnson. Norfolk antr
Western.
E. P. Ripley. Santa Fe head, veteran pf
the early railroad struggles of the West,
with Ws W eara borne lightly on hw
broad shoulders, Rooked over the group i
of railroad presidents as la entered the )w
tel lobby, with a grifl wnjle
Tjhla is s&e 9, h34 ef a KfJM?
fclpl3? Rtf&t.
v
ill u 11 si 'I l 6
Sa1"TTi"T"g3l ai t
VfiiiiMiMrrrijiiiMtiiiMMiusC
tasane attacK. upon nni
