THE WEATHtR FORECAST '
Generally fair to-day and probably to
morrow; continued warm.
Highest temperature yesterday, 84; lowest, 68.
Detailed weather, mall and marine reporlt on page (,
tin.
IT SHINES FOB ALL
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 366.
NEW YORK, MONDAY, AUGUST 21, 1916. Copyright, lilt, by the Sun Printing and Publishing Association.
ONE CENT
In Greater New York. 1 Klsrwhere
Jersey flly and Newark, j TWtl CUNT.
WILSON WOULD
ACT TO FORCE
ARBITRATION
President Favors Compul
sory Settlement of Fu
ture H. It. Disputes.
HINTS OF ADVOCATING
PROl'KK LEGISLATION
III is Situation 3Iust Never
He Allowed to Rise
Again," He Says.
DEX1KS "SACRIFICING"
A GREAT PRINCIPLE
Message " H(?a(1 of V00
Jlanufactnrers 3Iay Ease
Present Struggle.
WiiiUNOTos, Aug. 20. President
Wllfon Is in favor of compulsory arbl-
' tntlon as a means of nettling all fu
ture threatened railroad strikes. In a
til-gram made public at the White
Home to-day he Intimates that he
will urge legislation to this end.
, "This situation must never be at
Ion oil to arise again" and "some
means must be found to prevent Its
recurrence" were two sentence from
a statement which the President made
public to-day in reply to the charge of
the rt1way executives that In hia ef
forts to prevent the Impending: strike
he has sacrificed the principle of arbi
tration in the settlement of wage con
troversies. It was learned to-day that the Presi
dent on une or two occasions In the last
few days list told the railroad presidents
that hs favors compulsory arbitration,
but that It la too late to attempt any
trine of this character In the present
situation. The President's attitude
toward compulsory arbitration (or the
future Is a factor that Is likely to have
a favorable effect on the present situa
tion. The making public of the President's
Ttwi marked another step In the cam
paffn of publicity that has succeeded the
'arret conferences at the white House.
With the- exception of the President's
statement of his attitude toward arbitra
tion there was a Sunday lull In the nego
t'ttlons for nvolding a strike. The rat!-
wy executives and managers for the
m part gave up consideration or the
problem for the day, many of them de
leting themselves to much needed
rcrttlon. The managers' committee
hold a short conference during the rorn-
its preparing uaia lor suomission 10 ma
President and for use In further support
of their position.
Western President Dae To-day.
The executives are awaiting the ar
rival of tlielr Western colleagues, most
of whom will Ret here to-morrow. It Is
I-osbIe, however, thnt there will be no
conference with the President until
Tuesday, when the crisis probably will
be reached.
A report was current to-day that At-torney-i'.eneral
Gregory at the sugges
tion of the President had drafted a bill
providing for the Inking over of the rail
toads under the general welfare clause
ef the Constitution and the operation of
them, on an eight hour basts perhaps, by
the Government In the event of a strike.
It Ran said that the representatlvea of
the brotherhoods had given assurance
trat if u break occurred a strike would
not be called until Congress had time to
consider such a measure.
Confirmation of this report could not
lie obtained at the Department of Jus
tire. It la doubted that Congress could
ee Induced to pass such a bltl at this
' time.
The President's statement, In wbich he
4nls that ho purposes to weaken or dls
ciedit the principle of arbitration. Is In
tht form of a telegram to George Pope of
flartford, president of the National As
Delation of Manufacturers. It Is In re.
Ply to a message from Mr. Pope on the
Mrt of the 3,700 manufacturing orgsnl
utlons, urging the President to main
tain the principle of arbitration.
Text of Tiro Messages.
The two messages follow:
"Haiitfoud, Conn.. Aug. M, 1916.
The PirtMoif, the White House:
On behalf of 3,700 manufacturing or
wiatloni, employing 3.000,000 persons
nd utterly dependent upon uninterrupted
railroad service for their continued op
eration, I beg to at once express our deep
rrreclatlon of your efforts to prevent
'le threatened destructive stoppage of
national railroad service and to respect
jully urge that you will, with all the
Krcai omce ana person
my, awn and maintain the principle
, srbltratlon for Industrial disputes af
,.vs "itlonal Intercourse,
it. fll'"",rid can fear such a test,
f. !irir 'I'mand can or should survive
i. . vte sincerely believe no man In our
"" has possessed such an opportunity
o fortify t,a essential principle of pub
i'LiTurl,y win"' future attack by
mplojer ur employee.
-p,..,. "Oeoros Popg,
ticturer'ltl0nal A"ocU,lon ot Mnu-
"Tub Wiiitr Ifovst,
,"ir Or
"Aug. 20, 1916.
, r worp, i,,ri irrsMent .vnftoaal Af
'ntv, of Manufacturers, II art
ti 'Til, rnn,:
Allow . i acknowledge the receipt
' Hr le etrnni f AK,t ,g am) ,(,
of J;., '',v ""V 1 "' t0 Principle
M I .1 J n wlUl c"ar conviction
that JrM,7" " purpose a. any one. but
In " r "" ' n means now
eur.1 " l,y Bhl,'n arbitration can be
U!m , , "' 't',l'g means have been
to , ,, '' '"'" iut never be allowed
n. ,,, t(J )irmit . Ttm
Ijjt , , .,,, c.n , found off.
, Continual on Third Pag.
CANADA'S PULP SAVES
PRINT PAPER MAKERSl
Shipped 794,00,000 Pounds
to U. S. Last Year, an In
crease of 130,000,000.
i
Washington', Aug. JO. "Over two
thirds of the mow than a billion pounds
of wood pulp Imported Into the United
States during the nscal year ended June
30. 1918. Ami ,lft In I ha mnniil-nlnr.
of paper, came from Canada," according
,u cunimunicauon to the .National Geo
graphic Hoclety from John Oliver l.a
Oorce and Issued by the society as a bul
wtln In connection with the Govern
ment's Inquiry Into the Increase In the
cost of news paper.
"The pulp Importations for 19t5-l
have been 180.000,000 pounds less than
for the previous twelve months, yet the
amount shipped to us from Canada dur
ing the past year was 130,000,000 pounds
In excess of her 19H-1B shipments.
"During the year Just closed nearly 70
per cent, of our 1,135,000,000 pounds of
pulp came from our neighbor to the
north, while most of the remaining 30
per cent, came from Norway and Swe
den. "The enormous volume and Importance
of the pnper manufacturing Industry In
the Lnlted Htates are seldom rcnllxed by
the chief beneficiary, the average reader.
According to the most recent figures of
the United stHten rwmn.im.n. n n
m"ce (114). the value of the annual
Mruuucuon or tne paper mills of this
country exceeds $330,000,000. Over 150.
000,000 of this sum l nr.,,t..i i
news paper 1,313,384 tons, or enough
i print ten ana a half billion fourteen
page eight column papers.
"The book nsner fnlaln 1
cover) output was valued at $73,000,000
.'!." 'nc"ase or 34 per cent, over
1909. The weight of this class of paper
was 1.819,958.000 pounds enough to
print thirty-three standard size maga
slnes of 120 pages each for every man,
woman and child in the United States."
HURRICANE AGAIN
SWEEPS N. Y. CAMPS
Hospital Flies. Animal Shel
ters and Division Mess Hall
Are Torn Away.
HcADQUARTICRa V'ew Tnnv Tliviatfw
McAllcv, Tex., Aug. 18. The second
hurricane In ten days struck the camps
oi me sew York division nt 3 o'clock
this afternoon. Hlnce early morning
wind and rain from the northwest had
been sweeping HcAllen, Mission and
Fharr and the big Gulf storm broke just
as word cams that the sea wall at Gal
veston was ten feet under water. All
telegraph wires but one from the Mc
Allen section went out with the breaking
of the storm. Warning received by
wireless last night and repeated this
morning gave the camps warning enough
to get tents repegged and reroped and
to get under shelter all perishable sup
plies. When the eighty mile wind came, how
ever, fly tents were carried away. Ani
mal shelters were torn to ribbons and
some of the mess shelters under con
struction were wrecked. The mess hall
at division headquarters went to pieces
and the flies at the first Held hospital
were swept away. Thirty-eight sick
men were removed to the operating room
of the hospital.
The Fourteenth and Seventy-flrst In
fantry regiments got the full force of the
storm eighteen mile to the northwest.
Their shelter tents gave them little pro
tection, but the men, hardened under the
three days of marching through which
they had gone, never lost cheerfulness.
The Third Infantry, which marched to
day from McAllen to Mission, found Its
camp untenable and it had to move Into
the camp of the Fourteenth.
A Federal paymaster went Into the
range this morning with JOO.000 for the
Fourteenth and Seventy-first. July pay
for the former and June and July for the
latter. The Seventy-flrst was paid In
the rain at 'Monte Christo.
Two men of the Fourteenth, one whose
feet had given out and one with a touch
of fever, were brought back to camp to
day. Two of the Seventy-flrst were also
brought back, both of them protesting
bitterly against having to come. Three
others of the Seventy-flrst had to make
part of to-day's march In a wagon.
BUENOS AYKES SHIVERING.
Coal 940 av Ton and People "Nit
Aroand la Blankets."
While New York was being made trop
ical by the vagaries of the Gulf Stream,
Buenos Ayres, Argentina, usually con
sldered a city of balmy airs and light
clothing, has been gripped by what the
natives consider a frigid spelt, according
to passengers on the Lamport tc Holt
liner Vasarl, which arrived here yester
day from South American ports, after
being delayed by the latest hurricane In
the Gulf.
Theodore Rlckscher. who has been In
Argentina for the last four years as a
representative of the Automatic Ulectrlo
Company, aatd that Iluenos Ayres has
Just experienced the coldest winter for
the last half century of Its history, the
temperature going as low as 2G degrees
above sero.
Coal has gons up to $40 a ton, and
almost all the landlords have ceased
heating their houses. Except In two
hotels, Mr. nickscher said, the Inhabi
tants "Just sit around In blankets and
shiver."
NORMAN ANOELL, "CONVICT."
Berlin Reports English Writer Has
Elghteem Months Sentence.
Berlin, via wireless to Sayvllle, Aug,
20. According to the Overseas News
Agency, an Italian newspaper has pub
lished a report that the Kngllsh writer
Norman Angell has been sentenced to
eighteen months nt hard labor; after
having been under arrest for several
months, because he declined to take part
In the war.
This reiwrt says Mr. Angell's plea
that he had conscientious objections to
war service was overruled by an KiikIIsIi
court.
This unconfirmed report from Berlin
la the first Intimation that Mr. Angell
had become Involved i any such dim
cuttles. He Is the ai nhor of a number
of works on war and diplomacy. Mr.
Angell spent his youth In the United
States. He is best known for his ad
vocacy of International peace.
Mr. Angell has made several visits to
America during the war, lecturing 'in
peace at first, but last February he ad
vocated complete preparedness for this
country, Most or nts MClt
llvered In New Tern,
CATHOLICS DEMAND
A MEXICAN PROTEST
Bishop Hickoy at Pontifical
Mass Urges United Move
to End Outrages.
PATHIOTI.SM IS CHEERED
Three Cardinals Officiate at
Cathedral Services Mass
.Meeting In Evening.
Preaching yesterday morning In St.
Patrick's Cathedral at tho pontlflcal
mass which opened the convention of the
American Federation of Cathollo Socle
ties, the night Ilev. Thomas F. Hlckey,
Bishop of Rochester, asked the members
of that organisation what they are going
to do regarding the treatment accorded
to Itoman Catholics In Mexico.
"It Is a matter of general Informa
tion." said Bishop Hlckey, "that across
the border, and at our very door, Indigni
ties have been heaped upon Bishops,
priests, nuns and people. What united
protest has gone out against these out
rages?" Tho federation will be asked by the
German Catholic Central Vereln to con
sider the question In the convention, and
It probably will turn out to be the most
Important Issue of Catholic week.
Those who wish to have the matter dis
cussed by the Catholics Insist that It be
taken up without regard to politics.
Bishop Hlckey emphasized the fact
that the federation Is non-partisan. He
did not dlscusi the Administration's
stand respecting Mexico, but did con
demn the Government for permitting the
post office to deliver periodicals which
"vilify and calumniate the church."
Bishop Hlckey, In debating these top
ics, had as audience the most representa
tive Catholic gathering ever seen In this
city. The Catholic hierarchy of America,
Including Cardinals Gibbons of Balti
more, Farley of New York and O'Connell
of Boston, Apostolic Delegate Bonzano,
four Archbishops and twenty-seven Bish
ops from all parts of the country, lis
tened to what was virtually a challenge
to the federation to take action. Also In
the audience were hundreds of priests
and monslghorl. Knights of St. Gregory
and societies representing every element
of thought In the Catholic Church. The
Cathedral was tilled.
American Flag Prominent.
The note of Americanism was struck
by Bishop Hlckey at the close of his
sermon. In fact, expressions of patriot
Ism were general throughout tne cathe
dral. Along with the papal colors, white
and yellow, and Cardinal Farley's shield
bearing hU coat ot arms, were the Stars
and Stripes In every form. The Amer
ican coat of arms was hung In the
chancel back of the altar, above the
archleplscopal Insignia.
Tho societies that marched Into the
cathedral In the rear of the ecclesiastical
procession bore their banners. The
Knights of Columbus, massed In front
of the chancel throughout the long
service, had their colorH and the Stars
and Stripes, Early In the ceremony
"America" was played on the cathedral
chlmca.
The procession Into the cathedral,
which began at 11 and did not end until
11:45, was led by the monastic orders,
the Franciscans, Capuchins, Dominicans,
Jesuits and Augustlnlans. Behind them
walked battalions of priests, who lined
the centre aisle as the monslgnorl and
higher ofllccrs In gorgeous robes marched
In the direction of the chanceL
The monslgnorl, In Itoman purple but
distinguished from the bishops by lark
of ring and cross, were followed by the
titular bishops, those who do not reside
In their sees, and by the bishops of
sees. Here were seen Bishops Henry A.
(lubrlels, Ogdensburg, N. Y. ; Thomas F.
Hlckey, Rochester: Thomas F. Cusack,
Albany ; JOnii J. O'Connor, Newark, N.
J, ; James A. McFaul, Trenton, N. J. ;
P. J. Muldoon, Ilockford, III.: D. J.
O'Connell, Richmond, Va.; J. F. Regis
Canevln, Pittsburg, Pa.; John H. Fltx
Maurice, Krlo, Pa. Michael J. Hoban,
Scranton, Pa. ; Denis J. Dougherty,
Rochester; Charles E. McDonnell, Brook
lyn; Currier, Havana; Da SUva, Portu
gal; Charles J. O'Reilly. Baker City,
Ore.; Joseph Schrembs, Toledo. Ohio;
Paul J. Nuisbaum, Corpus Chrlotl, Tex.;
Henry J. lllchter, Grand Rapids, Mich.;
Thomas F. I.lllis, Kan?aa City. Mo. ; nd
ward P. Allen, Mobile. Ala. ; P. J. Dona
hue. Wheeling, W, Va. ; Nicholas A.
Gallagher, Galveston. Tex.; P. J. Hayes
(auxiliary), New York; Owen B. Corrl
gan (auxiliary), Baltimore, Md.; Kleley,
Savannah, Ga. ; tfhahan. Catholic. Uni
versity, and Conroy (auxiliary), Ogdens
burg. Archbishops In Mae.
Then followed the archbishops, among
whom Edward F. Prendergast of Phila
delphia, was distinguished on account
of his height. Archbishops Avecsa of
Brazil, Messmer of Milwaukee, Wis., and
Bruchesi of Montreal were the other
prelates In this division.
The Apostolic Delegato was escorted
by Dr. James J. Walsh, Dr. Thomas F.
McParlan and another Knight of St.
Gregory. Next came the Junior Cardinal,
O'Connell. with three knlgjits and three
monslgnorl. Then appeared Cardinal
Gibbons with an escort of the same
number, and Anally Cardinal Farley,
preceded by the archleplscopal cross.
Behind tho clerics came tho laymen
of high rank, Including the marquises
of the Order of St. Gregory, the Knights
of Columbus of the fourth degree, and
many military organizations of the dlo
cese, representing Hungarian, German
and other national churches here.
The pontlflcal high mass was sung by
Cardinal Farley, with the night Rev.
Joseph' F. Mooney, Vicar-General, as
Minting. Tho deacons of honor were
Monslgnorl J. 8. M. Lynch of Utica and
F. A. O'Brien of Kalamazoo, Mich, The
deacon of the mass was Mgr. Ambrose
V Roche of Boston, and tho sub-deacon
Dr. William B. Cantwell of Long Branch,
N. J.
Cardinal Gibbons was attended by
Monslgnorl John Ildwnrds of New York,
George Kaupert of Brooklyn and John A.
Sheppard of Newark. Assistants to
Cardinal O'Connell wcr Monslgnorl M,
J, Splnlne of Boston, Joseph A. Delatiey
of Albany and Francis H. Wall of New
York. Tho Papal Helpgato was attended
by Monslgnorl Joseph McNamee of
Brooklyn, Nelson II. Baker of Buffalo
and Dennis J. Curran of Rochester.
In the chancel a throne had been
ereetrd alongside of Cardinal Farley's
seat for the Papal Delegate, and facing
the New York prelate were Cardinals
O'Connell and Gibbons, on thrones soms-
ContltiMd on roMtth Pat.
SAYS NEUTRAL U. S.
FORFEITS RIGHTS
London Newspaper Declares
American Attitude Loses Post
Bcllum Consideration.
London, Aug. 20. In a leading edi
torial, entitled "The Great Neutral," the
Sunday Times asserts that the United
States has forfeited post-bellum rights
which might hsve been enjoyed If a
different attitude had been assumed
early In the war. It says:
"Next to war, perhaps nothing Is more
wonderful thnn neutrality. In theory,
to be neutral Is to be non-partisan and
to favor neither sldp. But In practice, as
we know, neutrality may arrogate to It
self a variety of functions which might
at first sight seem foreign to Its nature.
"So far as the present war Is con
cerned only one neutral of plain conse
quence exists. We refer of course to the
United States of America. When Eng
land Joined the Issue with Germany In
1914 the probable attltudo of Amerlcn
would appear to have been considered
by nobody but tho Germans. Roughly,
the English view was that by tho nature
of things American sympathy and, If
worst came to worst, American support
might be taken for granted.
"It would be Invidious and probably
Improper to suggest that we have neither
ono nor the other. The Germans Bay
wo have. On the other hayd, wo bellevo
there is a tremendous body of American
opinion which says wo have not. There
was a moment at the beginning of tho
war when the whole duty of the Ameri
can Government seemed to be palpably
and surely before It. For good or III,
that moment was allowed to pass, Amer
ica did not Intervene, did not move. In
deed, to assert a moral right she as
sumed the virtue of her Insistent partici
pation In the Haguo convention.
"If by this failure she lost nothing of
material Importance, and may for that
matter rather have gained in so far as
her own Immediate advantage Is con
cerned, she certainly forfeited post-bellum
rights which would have been hers
If she had taken upon herself the bur
dens and responsibilities of Interference.
"This view of her portion Is fully ap
preciated In those quarters where Amer
ican neutrality has been upheld In the
face of all criticism, and obviously Is the
correct view."
FIVE NEW YORKERS DROWNED.
Fonr Bathers Go Down and Motor
Boat Owner Falls Ont.
Four men were drowned In New York
waters yesterday. Two met death near
Pelham Bay. one In the Hudson River
and one nt-Coney Island.
Domlnlck Laruso, 22, an Iceman of
229 East 22Sth street. The Bronx, bath
ing near the Pelham Bay bridge, dived
and struck his head on a rock beneath
the surface. Edward Brady brought hltn
to the surfocc, but Dr. Murphy of tho
Fordham Hospital pronounced that the
man was dead.
Henry Ilewlg, 28, a laborer of 9u
Caldwell avenue. The Bronx, fell from
his motorboat" In Eastrhester Bay near
Pelham Bay and sank Immediately. His
body was recovered.
Henry Carlson, 40, of 1140 Collcse
avenue, wns drowned In the presence of
his wife and child on the shore while
bathing In the Hudson at Tarrytown.
Ills body had not been recovered last
night.
Simon Kaufman, a cutter, of 647 East
Thirteenth street, was drowned after an
attack of cramps off the foot of West
Twenty-third street. Coney Island.
Miss Lillian Martin, aged 20 years, of
528 East Eighty-fourth street, Manhat
tan, was drowned yesterday afternoon
when bathing at Rockaway Point. Her
body was not recovered.
NEW TYPE AERO FOR U. S. TEST.
Has Trrln Motors and la Kqqlpprd
With Tandrm Control.
NonrotK, Va., Aug. 20. Probably the
most advanced type of aerial machine
will have Its Initial trial In Hampton
Roads to-morrt)w In the presence of the
naval aeronautic board.
The new machine, which Is called the
J.-N. twin hydro, has Just been assem
bled at the Curtiss conipany' plant at
Newport News. The machine h driven
by two motors, each capable of develop
ing more than 100 horae-iiowcr. anil Is
equipped with two controls, front and
rear, which work in tandem.
The machine must make a maximum
speed of nlnety-flve miles nn hour, with
a slow speed of forty-five miles, and
must be able to climb 5,000 feet In ten
minutes.
DOMINICAN CUSTOMS HELD UP.
I'. S. Will Not Vmy Them Over Until
Government la llrcngnlard.
Santo Domingo Citt, Dominican Re
public, Aug. 2ft. Clarence H. Baxter,
general receiver of customs, has advised
tho suspension of payments to Domini
can officials under Instructions from
Washington, until an understanding Is
reached regarding certain articles of the
American-Dominican convention of 1907
or the recognition of tho present
Dominican Government by the United
Stttea.
SHIPWRECKED MEN ARRIVE.
Five American Survivors of Asorea
Accident Reach Boston.
Boston, Aug. 20. Five American
survivors of the British bark longdate,
which was wrecked August 9 outside of
Ponta Delgada harbor In the Axorcs.
were brought to port to-day on the
steamer Canoplc. which arrived from
Naples.
The Americans are James E. Cronln of
8t. Louis. Charles Sarkett of Washing
ton, D. C. ; William MrDermott of De
troit. Mich. ; Nicholas Mason of Balti
more, Md.. and Jack McCarthy of Boyne
City, Mich.
FIVE DIE IN CANADIAN FIRE.
Sla More Probably llnrt Fatally
In Powder Factory.
Montmcai., Aug. 20, Five men were
killed, six probably fatally Injured nnd
eight seriously hurt In a flro early to
day In tho Aetna Chemical Company's
powder factory at Drummonilviile,
Quebec.
The Are is believed to have resulted
from nn clcclrlo cpark which dropped
from the conveyor belt Into one of Him
powder blni In tho blending house, whim
was destroyed. Tho los In estlmnteil
at $20,000.
Cabana In Political lllot.
Havana, Aug. 20. One man was
kilted and several were wounded to-day
In Ctenfuegns In a riot between par
tisans of Santiago Ray and Juan Fin
renclo Cabrera, rival candidates for the
office of Mayor of Cienfuegos.
Maw shots ware Area and knlvsa and
machetes were used.
WANTS WOODBURY
IN STIELOW CASE
James W. Osborne Says Or
leans Prosecutor Is Hiasscd
Against Convict.
OPPOSED TO NEW TRIAL
Knickerbocker Says He Will
Resist Efforts to Reopen
Phelps Murder Case.
At.niov, N. T Aug. 20. James W.
Osborne of New York, who has been
engaged by tho Humanitarian Cult as
special couneel for Charles F. Stlelow,
under sentence of death for the murder
of Charles II. Phelps In West Shelby,
may ask Gov. Whitman to take the
conduct of the prosecution from the Or
leans District Attorney, John C. Knicker
bocker. Mr. Osborne sent a special delivery
letter to Gov. Whitman at midnight.
TIip letter Is understood to contain a
request for the removal of Mr. Knicker
bocker from the conduct of the case.
Mr. Osborne refused to discuss the con
tents, saying tho letter wns for Gov.
Whitman to make public.
Mr. Osborne said, however, the evident
bias of the District Attorney and his re
fusal to give any consideration to the
confession of Krwln King, the horse
trader who sworo August 10 that he
and Clarence O'Connell, an Auburn con
vict, were the murderers, made It Im
perative In the Interests of Justice that
another man be named. Mr. Knicker
bocker will oppose a new trial for Stle
low at the hearing before Justice Roden
back In Rochester next Wednesday.
"I think the Governor should Instruct
the olllco of Attorney-General Woodbury
to take charge of the prosecution of the
case," Mr. Osbomo said. "The District
Attorney Iiiim demonstrated that he Is
disqualified. He is, of course. In a deli
cate position. He successfully prose
cuted Stlelow.
Failed to Corroborate.
"As an example of his unfitness to
continue In tho case, It Is only necessary
to recall thnt when he had tho confes
sion of Krwln King and could have gone
right out and obtained ample corrobora
tion. Instead he put King in an automo
bile. In Juxtaposition to the detective,
Newton, who had won the reward for
llxlng the crime on Stlelow. After the
ride from Little Valley to Albion with
King. Mr. Knickerbocker produced a re
cantation of the confession which King
only a few hours before valuntarlly had
given the officials of Cattaraugus county.
"I have been engaged by the Humani
tarian Cult to act In thl case and my
only Interest Is to find the truth. Since
I have been here riorts of attempts to
obscure the truth have been called to
my attention. It Is in the power of tfie
Governor when thin rendition arises to
step In and supplant the District Attor
ney. This ought to be done."
Move Expected To-day.
One of the two Important steps which
have been under conlderatlon for sev
eral days by fitlelow's attorneys proba
bly will be taken tu-mormw. Either a
t warrant charging King with the Phelps
murder will De nhtatned or Magistrate
Skinner In Medina or King will be re
moved from Orleans county to Little
Valley. Cattaraugus county, where he Is
wanted on an assault nnd robbery
charge. It Is the desire of Mr. Osborne
to get King away from the Influence of
the Orleans county officials.
Mrs, Inez Mllholland Bolssevaln of
New York Is expected In Albion to-dny
or to-morrow to aid In tho fight for
Stlelow.
Humanitarian Cult, received a telegram'
from James W. Osborno last night In
which the attorney expressed his belief
that Mr. Knickerbocker should bo re
moved from the rase. Mr. Appelbaum
departed for Medina on a train due there
this morning.
14 HURT AS CAR HITS TRUCK.
Two Victims May Ille Panic In
Crowded Beach Trolley.
Two persons were Injured so seriously
that they stand small chance of recovery
and a dozen others suffered broken arms
and legs, cuts and bruises when a trolley
car clashed Into a heavy truck last
nlRht at Jackson nnd Seventh avenues,
Iinrf Island City.
Those believed to have been fatally
Injured are Miss Kllzalieth Mastersnn,
30 years old, of 553 Brook avenue. The
Bronx, and John Rellly. motorman, of
29 Collins place, Wlnfleld, Queens.
The car, returning from North Beach
to Manhattan, hit the automobile truck
driven by Gnston Rakish of 62 Thir
teenth avenue, Long Island City, as It
came out from the Slawson-Decker Com
pany depot, n block up Seventh avepue
from Jnckson. A panic followed In the
car. Police reserves, ambulance corps
and firemen came to the scene. It was
an hour before the injured had been re
moved. 100 SHOTS IN border fight.
Mexicans Fire on Negro Patrol
One Invader Captured.
Naco, sWlz.. Aug. 20. Over a hundred
shots wero exchanged across the inter
intlim.il linn nbout a mllo west of hern
Inst night between patrols belonging to
the negro militiamen from the District
of Columbia and i party on the Mexican
side.
Tho militiamen say that they halted
some Mexicans who attempted to cross
tlio line. In answer to the challenge
tho Mexicans Hied. In the fusillade
that followed tho only casualty was the
wounding of ono of tho Mexicans who
had tried to cross, He is now a pris
oner in tho camp of the negro troops.
HIS VOW OF 1876 KEPT.
Ml l, ir ilngh Itcllly, Ills Forlnne
Made, Writes Hume at I.net.
Hugh Rellly, then in years years old.
left h!n mother's homo in Flushing In
tti'ii with a nw that be never would
bo heiird from ngnln until he mndu his
fortune In Hi" West,
Ho made good Ills vow, Ills mother
died two years ngn believing her son
dead. But Thnmns Rellly of 31 Fowler
street, Flushing, received a letter last
week from Hugh, who I In Fresno, Cal.,
well in do and happy, but concerned at
last about his family and his old friends.
The letter appeared Jutt as the execu
tors of his mil tier's estate were pre
paring to serve notice upon him by pub
lication that the estate was about to
be settltd.
2 BRITISH CRUISERS SUNK;
ONE OR 2 U BOATS LOST
IN A NORTH SEA BATTLE
London Admiralty Reports That the Light Vessels
Nottingham and Falmouth Were Torpedoed by Sub
marines While Searching for the German High
Seas Fleet, Which Escapes Superior Forces.
Lo.ndo.v, Aug. 20. Two Drltlsh light
cruisers, the Nottingham and Fal
mouth, wero sunk Saturday In the
North Sea by German submarines
when a British cruiser squadron was
searching for the German high seas
fleet, according to nn official announce
ment issued by the Admiralty lata to
night. One German submarine was de
stroyed by the British, while another
waa rammed and was possibly sunk.
Admiralty Statement.
The Admiralty statement follows:
"Reports from our lookout squad
rons and other units showed thnt there
was considerable activity on tho part
of the enemy In the North Sea Satur
day, the 19th.
"Tho German high seas fleet came
out, but learning from their scouts
that the British forces wero In consid
erable strength, the enemy avoided an
engagement nnd returned to port.
"In searching for the enemy we lost
two cruisers hy submarine attacks II.
M. S. Nottingham, Capt. C. B. Miller,
and H. M. S. Falmouth, Capt. John Ed
wards. Thirty-Are Men Missing.
"All the officers of the former were
saved, but thirty-eight of the crew are
missing. All the officers and men of the
Falmouth were saved, but one leading
stoker, Norman Fry, died of Injuries.
"An enemy submarine was destroyed
BIGGER ZEPPELINS
DROP 600 LB. BOMBS
Captain Tells of Attempt
Make Them Shell
proof. to
Berlin, via London, Aug. 20. The
principal Improvement in the larger Zep
pelins, In addition to their greater carry
ing capacity, Is Increased protection
agalnat the effects of shell Are by anti
aircraft guns, according to a naval of
ficer who commanded n supor-Zeppelln In
a recent attack on England. Tho officer
said the measures taken tiy the British to
piotect themselves against aircraft raids
have Improved recently, a more effective
use of searchlights being noticed.
The nbjecties of air raiding craft, the
officer added, were military establish
mcnts, munition works nnd camps. He
admitted that at the great elevations nt
which the Zeppelins fly accurate aim Is
difficult, but that experlenco was show
ing that bombs dropped by the airships
generally reached their marks.
Bombs of 600 pounds dropped on a
large foundry, the officer continued,
caused the collapse of all the walls of the
building, while fire lombs dropped at
another place set whole buildings afire.
It Is the opinion of this officer that Zep
pelins (lying at high altitudes nre most
difficult to combat, especially those of the
new type.
Questioned concerning the possibility
of a super-Zcppelln crossing from Ger
many to the United States, the officer
said such a feat would tie perfectly feasi
ble If atmospheric conditions were not
wholly unfavorable. Under bad weather
conditions a drawback would be that the
rraft would ptobably be compelled to sail
for a time with the wind. The officer
said the Zeppelins had now reached such
a state of perfection that travelling In
them was perfectly kafe.
S0MME BATTLE TO BE DECISIVE
German Iteflenfr Admits No ton
rlnslon Has Been nracbrd.
Special Calti I'ttpatch to Tar. Srs
Amsterdam (via London), Aug. 20.
Tho military critic of tho Frankfurter
Zrttunu, reviewing tho mllltury situation,
admits that there can be no question of
the events on thu eastern front or on the
Sommo having readied a conclusion.
"We have," he says, "repeatedly pointed
out the enormous perseverance of the
British In a fiurely military ephere. Po
litically, tho British are Just as pertina
cious and In every reepect they are our
trreatest and most active enemy.
"For this renson the fighting on the
Somme Is of decisive Importance to iih.
For tho first time Great Britain has
ventured upon the continent with an
army of millions, and for tho first time
she Is vulnerable therefore In her manhood.
This the British knew beforo they created
their army of millions. It would show
great Ignorance of their history to sup.
pose tli at they would yield or show fa
tKue before they had been beaten or ex
hausted." BRITAIN AND SWEDEN AT ODDS
Trouble Threatens Over SeUqrr of
British Malls to Bassla.
Copeniiaoen, via London. Aug. 20.
Fears of a serious disagreement between
Sweden and Knglnnd.nre expressed In
several Swedish newspapers, according
to tho Dagena .Vpaedrr, which says that
the Swedish Government has published
a blue bonk on negotiations lietneen
Sweden and England on tho seizure of
British mnlls to Russia,
The bluo book states that on Britain's
Initiative nn ngreement was reached by
which British malls wero to be released,
Kngland agreeing to the establishment
of an arbitration court after the war
to settle the question of the seizure of
American mall.
After this agreement had lwen reached,
tho bluo book says, nnd 60,000 packages,
of seized mall forwarded to Russia, Kng
liind demanded thmt Sweden allow nil
ligllrh malls to pass to Russia. Sweden
refused nd Kngland withdrew her arbi
tration court concession.
Monro Get India Command.
Iainpon, Aug. 20. The War Office' an
nounced to-night a change In the chief
command In India, Gen. Sir lieauctinmp
Duff has been summoned home to give
evidence before the Mesopotamia com
mission and will vacate hla offlcs as
Commander In chief, being succeeded by
Lieut-Gen. Sir Charles Monro.
and another was rammed and possibly
sunk,
"There Is no truth In tho German
statement that a British destroyer was
sunl. and a British battleship damaged."
This Is the flist appearance In the
North Sea of strong German naval forces
since tho battle of Jutland on May 31.
Ttie first news that tho Germans had left
thu shelter of their mine fields and forti
fied bases waa brought to Ymulden, Hol
land by trawlers, which reported sight
ing a German squadron of fifteen war
ships. Including large cruisers.
This fleet wns accompanied by two
Zeppelins and was steering northwest in
the region of White Bank.
The Nottingham was of C.400 tons and
was built In Pembroke lit 191.1. Her
normal complement was 3S0 men. She
was 430 feet long and carried nine 6
Inch guns, four 3 pounders and two tor
pedo tubes. She wa designed to nuke
about twenty-five knots.
The Falmouth was of 5,250 tons. She
was built In ll'lrt and carried a crew of
376 officers nnd men. She wns 450 feet
long and carried eight 6 Inch guns, four
3 pounders and two torpedo tubes. In
her trial trips she made slightly over
twenty-seven knots.
tierman Mtatrnient.
Br.Rt.tN (by wireless to Sayvllle), Aug.
20. The Admiralty issued to-day the
following announcement ;
"A German submarine on the British
east coast on August 19 destroyed a
small cruiser and a destroyer of the
enemv. Another Mnall cruiser nnd a
, battleship were struck by torpedoes and
4 damaged."
BRITISH SEARCHLIGHTS
SEEK BREMEN IN FOG
American Liner St. Paul Sud
denly Illuminated by War
ships Off Nantucket.
When the steamship St. Paul of the
American Line, Capt. A. R. Mills, bound
here from Liverpool, was nosing her way
through a fog oft the Nantucket coast
about 3 o'clock yesterday morning sho
had an experience that convinced her of
ficers that tho German submarine Bremen
Is still afloat and the British are search
ing for It Suddenly tho white beams
of searchlights pierced the mist and were
played all over the ship.
The St. Paul's officers thought nt first
that the Illumination camo from the
United States battleship fleet mano'ii
vrlng in the vicinity, though they could
not distinguish the shapes of any ves
sels through the thick p.tli.
It was recalled, however, thnt the fleet
hnil been reported off Mnutauk Point,
ho they came to the conclusion that Eng
lish men of war were prowling outside
the port, covering tho water with their
searchlights In quest of the German nn-
aiii-ea merchantman.
BRITISH HOLD UP MANILA MAIL
Sack Taken Off Spnnlsh Ship and
Kept Thirty Honrs.
Manila, Aug. 20. The Spanish
steamship I,egazpi, arriving from Barce
lona, reports that Its cargo was not tam
pered with by the British authorities, but
that mall for Manila was reinoed for
thirty hours.
Protests by the American and Span
ish Consuls has resulted In the return of
1.700 of the 2.S0O packages of cargo for
Manila selied at Singapore from the
Fernando Po In June. Postal officials
assert that letters have l,een .eiL-nred
and seized.
One thousands tons of cargo consigned
to Manila merchants were seized from
the Fernando p.i at Singapnte bv the
British authorities before the Spanish
mall liner struck a net In the Sulu Ke.i
early In July.
GERMANS SCORE DANISH PRESS.
Lack of Impartiality Charged l
Kaiser's Official Organ.
Ixinpon, Aug. If.. A despatch to
-leuters Telegram Company from Co
penhsgen ays :
"The XcmUlrnttrhe A Uicmrtne Zeituvn,
the German ofllclnl organ, prints a furi
ous attack on tho Danish press for Its
lack of Impartiality. 'What.' asks the
newspaper. Is the Danish press driving
. It. . J . . .
. MH ii iiiimiiiim!i uuacKs on wer-
I man. ana 1 1 - ..mil. .1 ...
.... ....v ...1 .utiitiiii 1 111 mils ,
sympathy for our enemies? If the Dan
ish press expresses the public opinion of
Denmnrk It gives food for perlous re
flection.' "
BIO ITALIAN LOSS AT G0RITZ.
Berlin Kays Repeated Attack Were
Brntrn Off 400 Prisoner.
nrnu.v, (by wireless to Sayvllle),
Aug. 2u, The Italians buffered very
heavy losses In their nttacks on the
Austrlans In the vicinity of Gorltz. says
the official Austrian statement ot An
mist 16,
On that day repeated and violent nt
tacks of the Italians were beaten off,
and In addition to Inflicting ,evtr
casualties on the attackers, the Aus
trlans took 400 prisoners, Including a
lieutenant-colonel and seven other offi
cers. It declares. They also captured
six machine guns ami two mlno
throwers.
NEW ATTACK IS FORECAST.
French Remove Civilians lie hi ml
Front Southeast or Vrrrion.
Berlin (via wireless to sayt Ills), Aug,
20. Swiss press despatches, as for
warded to the Overseas News Agency,
report that the French authorities have
removed the civilian population from a
lurge number of towns nnd villages be
hind the front in the district of Nancy,
Lunevillc, Baccarat and St. Die.
The line Indicated roughly parallels
the Franco-German border, beginning
at a point about fifty miles southeast of
Verdun. It extends along a railroad for
about flftjjpnllea.
ALLIES BATTLE
FOR INVASION
OF BULGARIA
Fourth Great Offensivo
Fairly .Uoguii on Greek
Border. Says Despatch,
DKSPKHATB FIGHTING '
TO ItHDKEM SKHBLV
Gen. SarraiTs Forces Seek
to Cut If. If. From Berlin
to Constantinople.
BRITISH AM) FRENCH '
H.UDIKKING ENEMY
Teutons Start Counter At
tacks at Two Points
Kavala Threatened.
I r.l,a .... MA M..
n, .iu5, iu, me rourtn great ir
fetislvo of the Allies, that In the
Halkans. has fairly begun along the
wholo 1.10 miles front on tho Greek
border, despatches from Knlonlcn sav.
Thn German ntnl Bulgarian troops
jhnve anticipated It and started counter
uiuiriiH ut two points.
All the way front Florlnn. near Mon
astic on nn Irregular line to the River
Struma tho allied troops under Gen.
Sarrall. French, British and Serbian,
have lieen engaged. Tho new offen
sive was planned here. Gen. Cordon
n!er. who commands tho French troop.s
In tho Balkans, has Just returned lo
Sjlnnlea from tho council of war that
planned It.
nn .iiong me une me nrst operations
of an allied attempt to strike north to
I Nlh. redeem Serbia nnd o cut the rail-
I roan irom liernn to Constantinople and
separnte Germany from Turkey and then
IllVml llllS-lflu ltn.'A l.nn.m f t.
.... v ,.. , ,,v uirr
I military authorities have agreed to with-
onuv me i, refit troops xrom seventeen
villages along the northern border so
they will not be Involved and will give
tho Allies n clear stage for the grin
battle that Is beginning '
The British and French troops made
advances near Like Dolrnn In to-da's
fighting, besides repulsing Bulgarian at
tacks. The Serbians have given lip
Fiorina, snu'h of Monnstlr, to th" Bul
garians, but this was done according to
a prearranged plan, the Serb War Glllc
(UV.
Telegraphing from Athens the corre
spondent of tho ll.ivas Agency says:
"Tho Greek troops In the region of
1-1 ,.. . .. .1 ........ .1. t -ln .. r. A
1 1111111.1 ii-iut-ii wiien me iiuiK.il nun rtn-
vanced. The same pillcy Is pursued
generally wherever operations nro tak
ing place on Greek territory. The Oer
. man and Bulgarian Ministers have de
rehired that the population In the terrl-
tory nccupieu ny ine iiuicariaus win
lie respected nnd that the territory will
be ret-tored at the end of the war."
Ilnlicnr ".else Two Forts.
A Bulgarian counter stroke that may
seriously hinder the progress .if the
nllled plans l reported to-day. Bul
garian troops have crossed the Itlve!
Mestn, near the northeastern ex'remlty
of Greece, nnd seized two forts nnd the
railroad that runs from Salonlca to
Adrlanople The are j-endlng out pi
trols tow.ud the port of Kavala mi the
.Kgean Sen.
If the Bulgarians can hold the rail
road It will greatly aid them In gettftig
supplies. It iuiis southeast to Constan
tinople and a connecting line runs north
to Sofia
If the Bulgarian ndvance continued
here, and the Bulgars occupied Kavala,
It would be a serious petbark for the
Allies Kaala. protected by the Island
of Thasos and mi the Gulf of Kavala. Is
.111 excellent harbor In which the Allies
. ould land troops and which might b
tie base for part "f the advance north
If the Bulgarians occupied It this gate,
wav would be rlnrcd to the Allies A
t.'ir.g allied fleet 1s In the .-Ugean, bow
ever, and It Is hardly likely the Bui-
, g.irlans could get the town Itself, hut
they might well prevent allied troops
landing there.
The other Bulgarian offensive ha.s been
; further west, on the left of the allies'
line. Here nre tho Serbian tronps, ie-
' equipped and eager to tight to redee n
1 their routil-v from tho h.iti-d "i-wanos
1 and Bulgars. The Serbian occupied
Fiorina, about twent-llve inlle south of
Monastlr, as an observation post, nut
had orders not to attempt m bold It If
uti attack can e.
rlorlnil n Itiise fur vttneU.
I
Some dais ago the Itilk'.us attacked
and the Serb" threw them bark with
heavy losse;,, Then the Serbians, follow
lug lustrii' tlons, iv.icuite.1 Fiorina and
the llulg.it laps occupied the town with
out tiring a shot.
The Bulgailnns ate now using Flntlna
n tho basii for uu altm-k upon th
Serbians toward Bnnlea, near Fiorina
Theie Is hot lighting III this legion to.
dnv. The Serbians have made a he.ivi
counter attack upon Bulgarian troops de.
bnui'hliig from riorliu, nnd the iisue Is
, undecided.
I The German oftlrlal statement tele
graphed here frtT Berl'n, says Hanlc,
.has been taken nnd that nntth of nstrm-.i
Lake, east of Fiorina the Serbians have
been driven from the heights of Pinteinant
.lerl and Men in Tepest Tin Serbs In
counter nltiiek were Tepulsi-r the Oer
mans sav Tbev deilaie thai lllkllsl.i.
on tlie same front, has been taken from
the Serbs
The remainder of the line Is held bv
I British nnd French tioops Lake Imliiiii
half of which Is In Serbia and half li
Gteece, Is tho scene nf mof of tho light
lug III the lentro and the Allies ar
'noiinced the rapluie of the town nf
jiolrau Inst week. Hern the French, to.
dav bombarded Bulgarian p'itlons sn I
'then turned forward to the attack
llast of the lnko the French rushed i
series nf smnll villages In mm li the sntno
manner as Gen. Jnffie's men hnve dn
on the Somme front The lighting with
tho Bulgais was despetntc. as their
positions are defended with German ar
tillery, oflWred often by Germans, and
