i',
v
-r
I v
ThI WIATai
s
"1
I'
MR. MERCHANT. '
An ad la TheEugle will bring bayer
and Mller together.
AND PILOT
Unsettled, wlti Cunder showt r I: .
night and tomorrow. I
VOL XXX. NO. 193.
BRYAN, TEXAS, MONDAY, AUGUST 21, 1916.
It laife
price $4.co per Ar:::'j.
1
flit
fc. UfSfstl TTJ. M....:
i naruy rNcwiuu
Crisco
Is pore and wholesome
nd keeps well in warm
weather.
FRESH STOCK
ITALIANS ARE LAB
TROOPS AT SALOIIA
mm-.
WOULD RELEASE
UNDERGRADUATES
Authorities of State University Would
Hive Studente Released From
Border Duty to Graduate.
(by Associated VrM.
Austin. Texas, Aug. 21. Efforte are
being made by the authorttlea of the
DEFICIENCY
IfJ COST SYSTEM
End of Fiscal Year Will Show Large
Deficiency In Appropriation for
Fees In Felony Cases.
Italian Trnnns Ar Rfind DisemnnrWeH at Sri Inn
. ica, and as the Allies Already Have 700,000 1
Troops There, This Is Taken to Mean the be
ginning of Operations on a Large Scale in the
Balkans Bulgaria Is Said to be Prepared for
Attacks From. Any Quarter Italians Com
ing to Salonica to Oppose the German Troops
There Means a State of War Between Ger
many and Italy The Germans Are Fighting
Desperately on the French Front Petrograd
Reports burther Progress.
4 ,
London, Aug. 21. The Germans de
live red a violent attack on Floury,
near Verdun, last night, using a flam
Ing liquid, but without results, say the
French war official atatement today.
Italian troops began to disembark
Pat-A-Cake
A Prepared CAKE FLOUR, nothing to add
water Phone us about it.
Reid Bros.
STRIKE SITUATION
HELP IS REEDED
FOR 10RP1S
Conditions Desperate In Buckner Or
phans' Home Because of Typhoid.
Help Badly Needed.
THE "OXLASOOr
STARTS 01
3
The Second Newspaper Telling of
Activities on the Border Will
Start Publication Today.
(Br AaaootatM Press.,
San Benito, Texas, Aug. 21. The
IS HI SERIOUS
(Bv AsMWiUtml htl
Austin, Texas, Aug. 21. At the end t eaenik yesterday, aays a Havas
i of the present fiscal year on August diiMtch t0 par, from that point. As
'University of Texas to obtain the dls-;31, 1916, the deficiencies In the an- th entenU aiei are believed to have
charge of approximately loo grsnu- fropnauons maae lor me paymom.oi a foreg of Mmt iewen hundred thou
ates of that InstltuUon now doing 'ee and costs In sheriffs, clerks and Mfl- Brlti,hi French and Serbian
military service on the border with -attorneye In felony cases, fees of roopa on th, salonlkt front, the send
the National guard. A majority of .county Jddges. county attorneys. Jus- nB of renforMmr,u at thle Mim,
these students are undergraduates, tlcee of the peace, sheriffs and n-.juit (tp cptnng hostilities on a
and unless they are permitted to re- Jatables In examining trials, will teach -rB walai wouI(j indicate the allies
sunie their studies will fall to gradu- 85.000. according to Comptroller H. hvt tmbarBjed on a campaign of ex-
i. ...rnnllnr tn fhA annnnnrmpni. M. l ffrrflll. . .... .!-- i
mvt w.v.m.h - : l MIWIVI prvpwrvun. Wtlann nlan
t-i.. .11 ....In.. Ilia nnlvjiralfvf rVimntrn1lir Turrell nM this con-'. -. . " ,,BOB P'"n
hv vo.vH v -. - . . , . t - f)ince uermsn iruop a r m now v.,
. r, . . I !... ..II,!.... . .! mnA mill .. .
wm open op D.iuur .1. u...- - -the Salonlki front, the Italian Btfrvc 1V. . , 1 . , 1. If rn.mh.ri of lh
tor Is being taken up with General therefore, recommend to the next aes- ,,.. , th, camoaian WOuld mean "uo" "l lUD - parent w an toe largely iucrieu -
kn.L'.nd other mllitarr authori-'slon of the Lerl.l.ture that an appro- Jll LTlllTlrL re un,ted "h"t ,be - ".u.t be Incurred by the PP and prlntln, profession la th.
- - , in AiaiCIb VI wmw "
The people of Dryan are already
'aware of the terrible epidemic of ty- j"Oklasoda," a weekly newspaper pub
'phold fever that has been prevailing Hshed by the members of the Okla-
for some weeks in Buckner Ophans' homa, Louisiana and South Dakou
IHome at Dallaa and the dire needs of Rational guardamen. forming the pro-"
that institution. If there ever waa a Ti'alonal brigade etatloned In this see.
Rallriada Reject the Wilson Plan, but cause that stands out preeminently tlon, wsa to make Its first appearance.
" Ar Working on a Counter above all otnera in appealing to ine
Prepoeitlon. Jchariuble, Chriatlan people of Texas. ! The "Oklsoda" receives IU name
, . thla home for the orphaned children 'rom a combination of ayllables ft.
(Br Associated Pr-ss.) of the SUte in Its present deep af- the various militia organisations
Washington. Aug. 21. The railroad nicUon, la that cause. whose actlvltlea while on border duty
presidents and committee managers At thV "fat report there wore 70 tt win chronicle. This is the aecood
worked tday to devise some means of 'cases of typhoid in the home among army newspaper on the Texaa fron
avertlng ihe threatened atrike which the e60 inmates. 8ome of the cases tler. the "Hllnola Cavalryman" being
would tn the main accept President were just developing, others at their tne flr,t-
but at the aame tlme'Worat, and atill others convalescent T"6 "Oklasoda win nave tour
preserve the principle of arbitration. Under these conditions It la ap- Vt " u Initial number, and will
tjca.
priation oe maae to meet tnese ae- WM( Germany and itatty.
Ticienres ana to approve surrjnent
TROOPS
BORDER
TO HAVE LITERATURE
tockefsllsr Foundstion Haa Donated
115,000 for Books and Papers
" for the Soldiers.
jmoney to pay all such fees and claims
fin cash In the future. This msy re
quire about 2.000.000, it was said, for
a period of two years.
I President's plan aa it stood and institution and which must, in some thrre Rational guani.
hoped to agree on some counter pro-'Way, be met
pre-'
Bulgaria Prepared.
Berlin. Aug. 21. Bulgaria ia
nared to repulse all attacks
whatever quarter, Premier Radosla
(By Assocl-t-4 Pross l
SEVEN CENTS FOR SEED COTTON.
As It la maintained i
P"l. ' wholly by charity, thla charity of the
The employea. after a brief meet good people of Texaa must now be'
(ntr trkrifl. mA Imtrntvl tint M irtmnrmw ih. .v. litai .
frOIT) , w...w uuuuiou, cido itvj ywi tnuo uivuicr
Bwamnn aeveiopmenis, ma in 10 less children of tblt borne must suf
fnAinttm aont Holer ta tn Pran wrmmm . 4L. a ..ill. '
to acquaint them with the details of 0f the comforts of thla life.
the controversy. The situation con
tlnued, aa both aldea
IN MODEL
.i
(lament, as Quoted by the overseas
Newa In a Sofia dlspateh.
This la some price for seed cotton.
A farmer broucht to a local sinner' Strona Germsn detachments orove
Friday 1.020 pounda of seed cotton, back the British covsrlng patrola ' 7B,ae" w"n '"e rsli The e, feel, aaaured that Bryan.
Tie bale welahed br the tinner 440 northeast of Hlghwood, on the - - ln. cuy wun a atate-wiae reputation
F
LIKE KODIIE
I ne wwna ana cuiea oi lexas are Johnson aV Rhode Receive Their Firtt
.nr... cA I. i ... . . i - i . . ....
. --- ,u. now puuins on m cbiuiwbu mi. Fords of tha ifi7 model asms
serious nut not Hopeless. nM fnna8 for thla Institution and
Changes Art Made.
Messrs. Johnson and Rhode, local
pounda. After deducting 20 pounds for Somme front, thla morning, but stop- "eoon for nother conference tor cnartty and hospitality, will do Its dealer, for tha Ford automobile, on
fi.n Anmnio. Tex.s A u. 11 D. L..,.in .nd tin. the rinner. accord- n.4 wh.n thev came under direct "v " "r -"uju ruu parl. - Saturday afternoon received their
Rogere. field eecretary of the Young 'ng to custom estsbllshed 25' yesrs British positions west of the wood, rtter mova until tomorrow. Th, campaisn ln Bryan will be un- first car. of the new snodel and they
Men'a Christian Association, waa ad-J ago. doubled hla lint and paid him ..yt tha London atatement today. ,6ul rrl of a number of Weat- er the auspices of the United Chrta- are fine.- The changes that have
Tlsed Saturday that the Rockefeller Ifor S40 pounda of aeed at $M per ton. 1 The Ruaalans msde further ad.-" " Uy woraera. wnicn represents me teen made In A w cnange tne
. t - . ...In A. . .. .. m . ... ... .. .. a
, . I ...J J-.-J tlEfUM.tll.A 1 .... .. .ULI .V .a - I . I .MM IM
rounuauon a. a apprutirmiru f wurn iiio iu.i wcikui ui
for hooka for the troops along the seed, dirt etc.. ' only weighed Mfl
vsncs. at aoms points along tne
Stokhod line, where they broke
border. A committee. It waa staled. ( pounds. In other words, paid him
now la engaged lnNew. Tork eelect- ( for 240 pounds more seed thsn
Ing the lltereture.v.hlch will com-'he had. Tha ginning amounted to
prise works regarding the history of
Mexico and Texaa, fiction and. scien
tific works. The Idea la to select
books thst will Interest and Instruct
tha men and to have them circulated
with a view of reaching tha greatest
number of men In camps. The first
consignment Is expected to reach
Ttiaa within a few days and will be
aent to the border at once. Other
contributions from all parts of the
t'nlted States suggest several thou
aand volumea.
tf.40, so the farmer got his cotton
ginned free, wrspped and paid 20
cenla to balance out tha trade. This
bale netted $71.45, or ? centa for seed
cotton, which la the record price so
rfar this season.
8ome men run business along the
tinea of the men who uaed a cannon
for shooting mire.
If your boss is dlssstlsfled. Just
mention the fact to him and perhaps
he will permit you to resign.
through the Austro-Hungsrlan de
fenses laat weak, Petrograd an
neuncea. The capture of more than
thirteen hundred men In this region
in two daya waa reported.
Greece Is Invadsd.
Berlin, Aug. 21 (Bulletin) Gor
man and Bulgarian forces, which have
taken the offenalve on the western
and Balkan fronts, are pushing south
ward In Greece, the war office an
nounces, and wrested further por
tions from the Serbians and have
beaten off all efforts to recapture the
ground taken.
STORM DAMAGE DOFS
IT SHOW CREtt
iE
Y,
MCE
Tn 17 7 17Ti R T 17 r 17 7 JTD IT
;i ii i iu twi ii ii n i
Somsthlng unusually nlcs for a small town stort, Ws ars prsparsd to show a class of
FURNITURE never bsfors shown in Bryan. .Our sfors has vary recently been fitted with
a number of large DUST-PROOF show rooms in which we have displayed some of the
handsomest period styles of bed room suits made by Grand Rapids Best Furniture Fac
tories. Pay the store a visit, see what we have to show you, visit our Music Depart
ment and be entertained with somo of EDISON'S choicest, selections played on the
great Edison Diamond Disc Phonograph.
, several churchea of the city. Thla or- looks of the machine entirely and
ganliatlon will appoint Ita commit- make the Ford look Ilka a real auto-
tees and begin the work at once. They mobile. The change tnbat .noUcea.bla
will have soliciting committees, and la that In tha radiator. Instead of the '
also authorise the atatement that do- equere front that tha ca'r haa had It
natlona may be left at either of tha la sow ahaped exactly like that of
three banks or at. The Eagle office, the big National Tha engine hood la
ft --.Ml ..lt..t.J . m .a a- sllffAa-akM s-a.aa. -k- aIiI Ana Ilk.
aa win us wutTvicu up iruui amy to suim uhci hvw uiw -
Wlreleaa From Port Aransaa ftaya when the f'P,in la ended. tead of going atralght, back and
Food Conditlona Bad No Other )whlcn w, on the money forming a square bog for the engine.
Fatalitlea Have Been Reported. !win tun, r to Rev. Pipkin. H lopea Wk to the bed of the car
agent for the hnme. W the other new model care. The
v (Bv AmocI.iki' rim) Further plana of tha campaign and fn" r 'o changed eonsldar-
Cori'oa ChrislJ, Tex- Aug. Jl.-No ita progress will be published la The M7- 'A B,nch " terlel U
further reports on the loss of Ufa Eagle from day to day. UM4 d molded In what la cnlled
from Friday'a tropical atorm, which J pr jh,,,, whora Goi hM e.gd tha crown fender. Tha new addltloaa
did severe damage In thla aectlon W,B jfe tB(1 heallh and tfntyt tni to tha car make the little Ford neat
had been received at 10 o'clock tbla'that ,Tery 0M of . her- n appearance, and we venture to ear
morning and It la believed that thyi in oppo-t-nu-. for ,al aacrifica b1 when yo9 0M r,nf dow
death Hat will aUnd at It, and that an(j ....i.. the street yon will not recognise It
property damage will amount to about
12.000,000.
A wireless waa aent out from Port
Aransaa thla morning by the coat
No changea were made In tha angina
xcent the fan. Instead of being
When It cornea to cutting remarks, hung loosely In the front of tha on
a womana tongue haa a sword beaten. , gtne box. It tt now enclosed In a caaa
Tha meek will of necessity have to the f,n 00 "dl,u-
guard cutter, Comanche, which said
that food conditlona there were bal ,nherIt y,, rtrth u they ,,, t t In conversation with Mr. Johaaon
and that relief waa needed badly.
Communication la slowly being re
stored but Brownsville is still Isola
ted except by tha army wireless.
Tha mora a man knowa that should
be forgotten tha better hla
ory la.
thla morning ho said that ha believed
'the chins In tha appearance ot the
Bm" car would be of much kelp tn selling
them. v
iu-Lri.nj-i.r.iij-ir nririiiijuu'ijirn iriri-i-i" """" ' '
COTTON RECEIPTS.
Following are tha cotton receipts
In Bryan up to noon today:
Brick warehouse &fi
Union warehouse 300
Lawrence warehouse
Total 1571
Street cotton aold today for 1111
centa; cotton seed aold for 132.00.
On the aame dale last year cotton
sold on the streets ot Bryfcn for D 11
cents, and cotton aeed sold for $1VM.
On the aame date last year there
had been 140 balea of cotton received
In the city.
WE DOITT VAIiT YOUR BAKU ACCODI
But We Do Vtnt Yra Atteti:a !
We want to remind you that we sell every
thing for the home. .We would like to show
you our stock of Furniture and Convince
you that HERE is the logical point at which
' to make your purchases.
VJ. 7. JAGGO. Furnlfturo
i.rLTuLn.ruuuu"ir.ririr rnTii' "i -
