SEPTEMBER IST
BEPTKMHKR 1 IS THK I VST DAY FOR REGMTRA
TION ITS UKEN I'UKTTY HARD KOR COUNTRY
VOTERS TO REGISTER, ON MVdl NT OK III.: 'V
ADEQUACY OK rilK WHITNEY 1 .AW HI T IT-<
OOT TO RK DONE \NI> BY MEPTKMREK I THOSE
WHO VOTED IN THK CITY ELECTION IN MMl' H
NEED NOT REGISTER AGAIN.
Nab Gang of Dips After Picnic Raid
w m
WILSON MAKES IMPASSIONED PLEA FOR RAIL
PEACE TO HEADS OF GREATEST RAILROADS
NORTHWEST'S STAKE
IN CRISIS IS GREAT
"Keep Roads Running for Good of Nation
and the World," President Asks Two
Score of Biggest Men
yv«>*« nuff Correspondent
W ASHINGTON, Aug. 21.—Two score railroad
presidents, representing the greatest railway systems in
the world, were in conference here late today, forming
the final answer they will make to the proposals ad
vanced by President Wilson in an effort to avert a strike
that would paralyze the nation.
The heads of the systems went into secret session
after hearing an impassioned appeal by the president or
the United States to "keep the railroads running not
only in the interest of this country but in order to meet
the demands of the world."
BULBARS SMASH
INTO GREEK LINE
Open Offensive on Both
Wings of Allied Lines
and Hit Hard
TWO TOWNS CAPTURED
BY ED L. KEENE
United Pr«s« Staff Correspondent
LONDON. Aug 21.—The Bul
garians have opened heavy at
tacks on both wings of the al
lied armies In Greece, and aeri
eua fighting ia going on at both
ends of the 150-mile battle
front.
The German war office an
nouncea that the Bulgars have
captured Vichil, southeast of
the Greek town of Fiorina,
whose capture was officially an
nounced Friday, and have tak
en other Serbian positions.
An Athens dispatch reported an
other Bulgarian forre less than 10
miles from the Greek port of Ke
rala The invasion of Greece has
brought a new crisis to the Greek
capital, and has resulted in sudden
conferences between the ministerl
an'l the military heads
™The fighting in the Balkans,
which threatens at any moment to
develop Into a great battle along
the whole Greek border. eclipsed In
Interest operations on other fronts
today.
TO FATTEN OYSTERS
JUST UKE CATTLE
Professor Trevor Kmcaid,
University of Washington biol
ogist is preparing reports on
the fcfe cycle of Olympia oya
ters T&f the U. S. bureau of fish
eries, so that growers may ap
ply scientific methods to the
industry here.
"Some day the anaemic oya
ters will be placed in special
beds." he says, "and fattened
up for market, like cattle."
PFTTROORAD. Auk 21 Russian
force* In the Caucasus have captur
ed a whole series of atrongly forti
fied height* In the region of fdar
beklr, taking many prisoners, it was
officially announced today.
BETTER FARMING AND CHEAPER FOOD WILL RESULT FROM RURAL CREDITS LAW
The rural credits law is an immensely important
thing to city people as well as farmers. It will mean
more food and cheaper food, because there will be
more farming, more diversified farming, and better
farming. It will help the "back to the land" move
ment, because it will make it easier for the city
worker to own and operate a farm. This article fully
explains the law.
By Sam T. Hughes
Written Especially for The Star
For the first time in our history the federal government
ha- enacted a law for the purpose of promoting the financing
of the farmers. That law is now in effect, ft is called the
federal farm loan act, and is the result of long agitation for
"rural credits" reform.
The federal farm loan act deals with the matter of put
ting farmers all over the United States in position to borrow
£oney on easier term- when secured by mortgages on their
rms Jt does not deal with the business of lending farmer*
money on their unsecured promissory notes, or on notes se
cured by chattel mortgages
The federal farm loan act is simple. The government and
the law's trainers hope to put the business of farming on a
By Robert J. Bender
I.oaa of million* of dollar* In
«ropa thruout the country In event
(f a railroad strike «>■ the new
pcsalbillty before the admlnistra
(ton today.
The treaaury department re
ported that agent* of the federal
reserve board In the South. \Ve*t
ind Northweat are beginning to
ask for fund* for the annual crop
r-ovlng period.
A tie-up of the railroad* of the
• ounlry would mean that • heat
anil otlier product* now ready for
the mill* would be held up lndefl
p'tely, and poaslbly rot rn aide
track* if atopped In transit.
"Any compulation of figures,
however conservative, would he so
enormous that the average cltlxen
could not comprehend It," said G. C.
White, acting chief of the office of
markets of the department today
A strike within the next few
weeks, even If It lasted less than a
week, according to White, would
work almost immeasurable havoc
to the peach and apple growers of
the Northwest,
This crop is "just beginning to
move As it Is now, with conditions
norma:, there Is a freight car short
age thai is annoying fruit growers
and railroad men. Tnmaioe*. wa
termelons and cantaloupe* by the
million would rot In the fields or at
terminals, should crop movements
stop.
Millions of workers would be
forced out of work. With salaries
thus cut off. they would be unable
to purchase necessaries of life even
were they to be had
This ana:le of the threatened «i
(antic strike was borne borne to
officials not only by re|>orts from
the treasury department, but by
the srrlvai of Western raUrotd
(Continued on page 5i
U. S. TROOPS TO
REMAIN IN MEX.
WASHINGTON, Aug 21 —The
American troops will not he with
drawn from Mexico until the Joint
Mexico-American commission has
met and such action has been rec
ommended by the American mem
bers, a high official said today.
The statement, was made In an
swer to a question regarding the
action taken on Oen. Funston'a re
port that the troops might now he
withdrawn without endangering
the safety of the border.
Fatal to Northwest
The Seattle Star
: THE ONLY PAPER IN SEATTLE THAT DARES TO PRINT THE NEWS :
VOLUME 19.
What's a Boy's Welfare Compared to a Bridge Party?
with a crime Just a young boy,
too—ln grade ichool."
Reuben Jones leaned for
ward In hi* chair anil *tretched
a Unk>' arm acroe* hi* desk. 11<-
tapped with hla forefinger.
I'm isoln* to tell >ou this," he
Mid MfflMtlr, "to *how yon
vhil arc doing—M an Ulna
(ration."
Jone* is secretary of the school
toard.
A shor' Urn* a«o the hoard
BIGGEST MEETING IN BREMERTON
CHEERS AND THANKS POINDEXTER
"The best friend the Pugft
sound navy yard ever had."
Resolutions etnbodving that sen
timent and thanking United Slates
I-enator Miles Polndexter for his
work at Washington were received
with tremendous applause and car
t ed unanimously Saturday night
at a meeting that broke all records
at Ragles' hall, llrenierton.
It was the biggest political meet
ing ever held In llremerton, aliout
*00 attending. The hall, the liirg
more business-like basis, to the end that this nation shall
have more farming, and better farming and therefore more
food, better food, cheaper food, while the farmer himself
shall at the same time find his business more profitable.
The problem before the framera of the bill was to draw a law
which would work In America
Two commissions went to Furope to study the question before any
hill «u drawn The people of the United States may have u good or
n bad rural credit act; but It. Is certain that It was honestly drawn,
after long study on the part of hundreds of able men. and when
finally passed was as good a bill as honest purpose, great study and
ability could make It.
ANY PERSON WITH *25 TO INVEST MAY
PUT HIS MONEY IN THESE LAND BONDS
Vnd«r the federal farm loan act mortgages will not be held by
Individuals at all.
There will be 12 federal land banks, situated In different paris of
the country, and each of these federal land banks will hold ell the
mortgagee Istued In Its one-twelfth of the United States The mort
gages Will not be sold They will be. held by the system
Kach federal land bank will Issue land bonds secured by the mort
gages It holds These land bonds will be In different denominations,
some as low as $25, so that any person with savings amounting to that
sum ift- more may Invest In land bonds without having to wait until he
can buy a whole, mortgage
These land bonds will lie safe and not taxable They will he
secured as follows: First, hy the endorsement of the federal land bank
which Issues them. Second, by all the other II fndernl land banks.
Third, by the national farm loan astiociatlou which Issues tliuiu in the
SKATTLE. WASH.. MONDAY. AUGUST 21, 1916.
found the method of correcting
"had" bo>a then in vogue wa*
lieffertl ve
Whan j boy *11 "bad" ha wai
aant Komi for a doaa of moral
rectifier. Thla was usually ad
miniatsrad by an Irate fithtr.
In many caaaa It resulted only
In aggravating the boy to fur
ther miachlef.
The school authorltlea deter
mined to icet at the root of the
trouble.
Truant officer* were Instruct
ed to *e<t the ' bad" boy*' par
REAL FOOD
est In the city, was packed to the
doors long before the speaking be
gan. and many were turned away
for lack of room.
It was a significant demonstra
tion of the esteem in which the
tavy yard city holds Senator Poin
dexter.
Presented With Bouquet
The meeting was held under the
joint supervision of the Kitsap
County Republican club, and the
('•ntral Labor Council of Bremer
ert*. talk the matter over with
them privately ami not* condi
tion* In the home
Secret iry Jone* continued
"Thl* boy w*a taken before
the juvenile authorities They
derid'd, finally, t<» aend an at
tendance officer- that's the new
fame we've given tn truant of
ficer* -to the boy* parenta
"The hi.me is on Capitol 11 111.
A maid met the officer at tho
«!oor, II I aaked to aee the boy'*
mother.
ft he v.a* called The officer
ton A R King, of the labor coun
ell, presided wa* Introdueeil
bv State Senator Peter Iveraon of
l'otil*bo.
Senator Polndexter wa* accord
ed »n ovation when he ro*e to
speak. At thl* Juncture. Mr*. Mar
g.iret llutts. of Charleston, present
ed hint with a magnificent basket
of roses In the name of the women
iltUens of Kltanp county.
Senator Polndexter assured the
audience that he will continue In
the future, as In the past, to act
Ifieely and Independently In the
best Interest* of the people, re
f'brdlesa of the wisbea of would-be
I olltlcal bosses
; The resolution* were then offer
ed by Attorney Morion Garland
and passed unanimously.
first place and which Is a co-operative organization of borrowing
farmers In the vicinity of the land mortgaged. Fourth, by the land
mortgaged.
The guarantee of the local loan association Is backed by a 5 per
cent guarunty fund
Altogether, it looks as If the land bonds would be considered as
good as government bonds but, of course, the government does not
guarantee them The government, however, does subscribe the stock
of the federal land banks provided that private capital does uol take
the stock. They have $750,000 capital stock each.
Ten or more farmers may establish a national loan association and
begin Issuing mortgages. It Is a almplo and easy thing, but under
strict government supervision.
All they need to do Is to meet, declare that they want to borrow
on mortgage, nnd proceed. They will earli have to buy $."> of stock
In the federal land bank of their region for every $100 borrowed, but
they will Ret this money back when they pay off their mortgages, and
In the meantime will get their dividends If the federal laud bank earns
any, which it Is expected to do.
INSTEAD OF PAYING COMMISSION. BORROWER
ACTUALLY WILL BE DRAWING DIVIDENDS
In other words, instead of paying a five per cent commission for
a loan as some now do, the borrower will pay the sum for stock
which will probably earn dividends for him, and which he will get
back when he pays off Ills debt.
The mortgage Is not allowed to draw a higher rate of Interest
than the legal rate of the locality. It will draw as low a rate as will
he proven possible hy the sale of the land bonds If Investors and
savera think so well of the land bonds that they are willing to buy
. ..» *
f «. f »'<#*. •"
one cent of, ,:\v:: n rz
expilnrd that her boy waa un
der arrest for a crime.
" i rame to talk the mailer
over wltu you.' he said. Par
hapa w« ran axulat you In get
ting a closer hold on him with
out sending him to——' "
"'I haven't time to dlacuaa It
with you today,' replied the
mother, cutting him off. 'This la
rr.y bridge day."*
Ban*' the door slammed in
hia far*
What hr« wo going to do wilh
j that kind of parent?"
KISSING STILL
POPULAR, MANY
i LETTERS SHOW
Seattleites Anxious to Tell
Why Girls Close
Their Eyes
THO OPINIONS DIFFER
Still they continue to pour
In!
What?
Anawara to tha question
"Why doaa a girl cloaa har
ayaa when a man klaaea har?*'
Soma aeamlngly wiaa person
ventured to etata not so wary
long ago that Intellect la ovar
throwing eentlment. If thla
old world of oura la growing
too busineea-llke to be senti
mental, the dozens of letters
received en this oaculatlon
question does not furnish much
proof of It.
They are all good letters,
and I regret apace does not
permit me to print all of them.
Following are some of them:
Thla, From a Bachelor
Pear Cynthia Grey. Altho I ran.
I really half to tell you wby a
woman done* her eye* when a
man kl**es her. because you are a
toman; but you have "popped"
the question. *o here's the an
mer It* t>e<au*e no woman ever
dired to look the truth In the
fare " AN OU> BACHBXML
• • •
Thought* Elsewhere
Dear Cynthia: "Why doe* a
klrl close her eyea when a boy
kl**ea her*"
She * thinking of her sweetheart
—"far, far away." M. A. N.
• • •
IF SHE'S AN "EVE"
l>e»r Cynthia Grey: There I*
on'.y one answer to the queMion:
Does woman close *ier ey«"s when
helns kissed?" All women who 1
nre "Eve*" —say, from the a*e of
14 to 2S do Every "Eve" ha* ap
ple* 'o offer her Adam At the er
stacy of the mc.iient *he offer* him
them, she close* her eyes natural
ly, beln* In a scml-consclous atate.
I'nder no other condition doe*
woman close her eve* when being
*l**ed E. A DONAKDSON.
• * •
SHUTS OUT THE WORLD
IVar Ml** Grey: The r«»R*on a
■> "timn closes her eyea while helnr
kissed I* to rlo*e out the world and
put her whole heart »nd *oul Into
the kl«*. ONE WHO KNOWS
9 • •
SENTIMENTAL REASON
l>ear Ml** Grov: I think the
reason a Rlrl clor.c* her eves when
her lover kisses her la because she
like* to Imagine she I* in Pnra
dl*e. I-. J. E.
NIGHT EDITION
"FAIR TONIGHT AND TUESDAY, WARMER TI ES
DAY.' !H THK MKUJDIOUS TUNE SUNG HY THK
WEATHER MAN. UY THE WAY. DID YOU OET A
CAMPAIGN SPEECH PRAISING HUMPHREY?
UNCI.K HAM PAH) THE POSTAGE ON IT, JUST AS
UNCLE PAID KOR THE HUMPHREY POKTOKKICE
SITE.
HUGHES' GUARDS TIP
HI OFF TO TENNANT
Detectives Round Up Five at Depot After
Milk Drivers Are Robbed Sunday
at Fortuna Park Outing
Five of the country's notorious pickpockets, who
followed the Hughes' campaign party to the coast, were
in jail here Monday because they lingered to trim the
crowd at the Union Milk Drivers' picnic at Fortuna
park Sunday.
Their leader, known to the police of every city from
New York to Seattle as "The Guerilla," but to others
in his native Chicago as R. N. Robertson, 53, and his
four trained confederates were nabbed by detectives
near the O-VV. depot, when they approached to depart
for California.
Wliliam Watson. 4alia* "Thei
O. K. Kid": Harry Pace, 24. alias
"The T J. Hamilton. 33,
The Welshman," and Harry
Gardner. 33. are the other members
of the gang booked at headquartera.
Hughes' Guarda Bring Tip
Thai they were In the city has
been known alnce Tuesday, when
Secret Service Guard* Rrlerton and
Tyree. of Chartea E Hughes' party.
I tipped the police "The Guerrilla"
and hia men were looting crowds
Tn the wake of the reptibllrmn nomi
nee.
Arriving In the city, each smart
ily dressed, they put up at the Rich
mond hotel, and registered as
"salesmen "
I-ater tbey decided to "lay low"
here. It I* believed they knew
Capt. Tennant and every city de
tective on the force was waiting for
them to start aomething
So they separated, and. the po
lice believe, went to other Sound
cities to reap a harvest.
They "Do" Milkmen
Sunday they are alleged to have
met and agreed to "do" the milk
men's picnic, which had been ad
vertised as free and open to the
public. It was across !.ake Wash
ington. where they believed the
city detectives would not bother
them.
Reports started coming in to po
lice headquarters from the picnic
that "dips" were at work, and by
evening eight complaints had been
received from people who lost a
total of $180.
A Gerhart. 411 Jackson st., was
tne biggest loser, when they nab
bed his p-vketbook containing $70
In bills and gold.
Other victims were H. C. Olson,
«. r .41 Seventh ave. X, W, $10; J. R
I Lee. 1712 12th ave . $10; A. Wol
berg, 1619 Terry ave.. $f>: A. C.
Pennle. 302 25th ave. S. $35; W.
Keer. 1319 Denny way, $6; H A.
Introducing an Actress
The Star today presents "Anne, Actress," to its
readers.
You will find her on page 4, and every day this
week, as the new novel a week develops, you will be
more and more interested in her.
Anne has a real, absorbing life career She also
has a daughter, but. of course, the stage folks don't
know it. They'd think she was too old for the foot
lights if they knew she had a girl of 18.
Turn to page 4 and begin "Anne. Actress."
■ them on a hauls of four per cent, the mortgages will not draw over
five. They may not draw as much as one per cent shove the land bond
rate. That depends on experience Anyhow, the farmer will get his
money at actual cost to the great system of banks handling the busi
ness.
He cannot borrow over $10,000.
This federal farm loan act provides for federal joint-stock banks
which can also Issue land bonds under government auspices.
It is thought by some that those banks will be organized so
promptly and so rapidly that they will cover the field and prevent the
organization of very many of the co-operative organizations of borrow
ers which I have described If so. perhaps it will be because the Amer
ican farmer likes to deal with private banks rather than to organize
co-operatively.
MORTGAGOR MAY PAY OFF LOAN IN
WHOLE OR IN PART AFTER FIVE YEARS
It Is also among the possibilities that the private joint stock banks
organized under this new law will be able to furnish money cheaply
as co-operative associations can do, and thus save the trouble, .slight
as it is. nnd the small investment in stock.
After five years any mortgagor under this system mav nav his
loan off in whole or In part. Hut loans under this system, either
thru a co-operative association or a Joint-stock bank are made on
the basis of paying a little of the principal wheneve- .lie interest Is
paid
Thus these loans will be extinguished, principal and Interest. In
from I'" to :iti years, by paying little if any more, than what mere In
terest amounts to on ordinary loans. This is called amortization, und
offers the easiest kuowu way for the gradual payment of loans.
Uvm»nde. 2212 K. Cherry st . 120.
and F. H. Gordon. Bellevue, $14.
Detectives Mclennan, Cochran,
Pergstnim and Humphrey were de
tailed by Capt Tennant to "brln*
In the Guerrilla and hia mob.""
"Mob" la the underworld term for
professional ganga of pickpockets,
who poo! their earnings and dlvld*
equally.
"The Guerilla," *ho»f picture la
In nearly every rogws' gallery In
the country, had one $.'>oo
more than $100 In ehanfe In hit
pockets when searched.
The others had smaller amounts,
ranging from $25 to $50. All had
railroads tickets from Chicago to
tho Coast, via Seattle. San Krancls
co and Los Angeles, back to the
Middle West.
O. K. Kid Known Here
"The O. K. Kid" has been arrett
ed In Seattle before, and did time
In Portland for "working" the Roae
carnival In 1912. 'The Guerilla"
was booked In Tacoma in 1912,
when he was following a circus.
Skeleton keys were found on
some of the gang.
Gardner la a Spaniard.
Pace has done time in New Or
leans. San Diego. Dallas. Winnipeg.
Milwaukee and Victoria, according
to the police.
Well groomed, they looked like
"Blackle Daws" and "Wallingfords"
WATER SHUT-OFF NOTICE
Water will be shut off on 13th
ave.. between E. Alder st and E.
Jefferson St.. on 14th ave., between
E. Spruce st. and E. Alder at., and
also on 15th ave.. between E.
Spruce and K. Jefferson sts. - , on
Tuesday. August 22. from 9 a. m. to
5 p. m.
C. M. WILLIAMS, vice president
of the Manufacturers' association.
Is en route to New York to study
Kastwn Industrial centers.
