THE DAILY MISSOURIAN
th,-j
t0J
the.
EIGHTH YEAR
COLUMBIA, MISSOURI, MONDAY, AUGUST 21, 1916
NUMBER 303
us
:I
I-1
i, m
e 4
3 1
1 1
40 R, R, PRESIDENTS
THE CALENDAR
Wilson Makes Appeal to the
Chiefs to "Keep the
Roads Running."
NO DEFINITE RESULT
Washington Officials Now
Realize Possible Loss
of Nation's Crop.
September 14. 15. 1G. Thursday. Friday
:il(l Saturday University en
trance examinations.
September IS, 19, iO, Monday. Tuesday and
Wednesday University regtra
tlon. September -"0. Wednesday Opening Con
vocation, Unlverlty Auditorium,
11 a. m.
September I'l, Thursday University class
work in all divisions begins.
the executives' committee will sug
gest a compromise resolution. Garret
son told the United Press:
"The President lias announced what
he regards a fair plan for settlement.
If there be any deviation it will not
be from our side."
ATTEND
COMMITTK MEETING
Democrats to Plan Coming
Campaign at Jefferson
City Tomorrow.
BULGARIANS
THE WEATHER
!
Won't Stop Proposed Decrease.
Ily United Tress.
WASHINGTON, Aug. 21. Two score . itv United Tress.
railway presidents, representing the! WASHINGTON. Aug. 21. The In
greatest railway systems in the world, I terstate Commerce Commission today
were in conference here late this j refused to suspend proposed dereased
afternoon, forming the final answer j rates on coal from Illinois mines to
they will make to the proposal made 'Missouri points. The new rate had
bv President Wilson in an effort to I been protested by Iowa and Kansas
WILL NAME COWGILL
J. E. Boggs, Wood Sapp and
Dorsey Shackelford to
Be There.
II MILEOF KAVALA
Greek Cahinet Is Called Into
Special Session Because
of Advance.
SLAVS ARE GAINING
French Repulse German At
tacks British Are Los
ing Ground.
For Columbia and Vicinity:
uiiiiiiiersnotters tills afternoon or to
night: Tuesday partly cloudy and cooler.
For Missouri: Local ilnimlershoners
tills afternoon .ir tonight. ler tonight
west and extreme mirth portions; Tues
day partly cloudy and cooler.
Weather Conditions.
-Vn area of hnv barometer overlies east
ern portions uf Nebraska and South Da
kota, western Iowa, and southern Minne
sota. It has caused rain over the east
ern Kocky Mountain slope from NVw
.Mexico to Montana, ami most of the
i-ianis via ip north of Oklahoma.
i .-ur. nnrui n vainer prevails over e
-iu .urn ccrurai pornons or the conn
aiinoiign pressures have diminished over
i ue soiiin. mis chance Is shznlf i-:iiif In
J SELLING OF TICKETS
FOR BENEFIT STARTS
Commercial Club Expecting
3,000 to Attend Hall
Theater Opening.
-COST IS ONE DOLLAR
that it has alloned an Inflow of moist ' Vinri nil RnilKn.r r",s, .
air from the ;uif t ti,e Mississippi Vai- irKin,a uuiuiing Company
ley states. :n, ,1 t should be followed bv ' 11,,,,,. OCA r- xt XT i
uu8-ju r. vv. lNieuer-
avert a strike that would paralyze the
Bation.
The heads of the great systems
wont into secret session immediately
after hearing an important appeal by
the President of the United States to
"keep the railroads running, not only
in the interest of the country but in
order to meet the demands of the en
tire world."
City dealers.
FULTON MAYOR IS IX HOLDOVER
"fain-
:; ('(Mincilnien Also In Columbia
boose As Visitors.
Four citizens or Fulton. Mo., in
cluding the mayor and three council-
men, were in the city hold-over this
morning.
The President made the railway Crockett
presidents a 30-minutc address dur
ing the meeting at the White House.
The heads of the systems, whose
property represents the arteries of the
country through which the lifcblood of
its public flows, walked or rode
through a blistering heat to the White
House to hear the chief executive's
final appeal.
The President outlined to them the
nerd of the presidents of the rail-
Harrison, mayor of Ful
ton, accompanied by G. G. Terry, J.
A. Martin, and J. B. Sharp, council
men of that city, were in Columbia
this morning on an inspection of the
city hold-over.
The party left Fulton this morn
ing, and went to Mexico, then came
to Columbia. From here they went
to Jefferson City, where they will
spend the remainder of the day.
"Fulton is a law-abiding town,"
ruaus i co-uperaie in im- inieiesi in .;,, ,... .,.;.,. ..h, nr,ainn;,,
ly they bring them in from other
preparedness as one point in the
broader ground he too!:. It had been
remarked earlier in the day that re
ports from the treasury and agricul
tural departments showed a strike
would mean the loss of millions of
dollars in crops, but despite that the
present domestic situation he told
the railroad heads that not only in
this country but abroad "where the
people of all the belligerent nations
are looking to the United States" the
co-operation of the big railroad sys
tems is absolutely essential.
The conference of the railway presi
dents this morning was unique. Men
representing billions of dollars of
railway holdings moved about in their
shirt sleeves "getting down to brass
tacks" on the situation confronting
them. It was all informal. The ex
ecutive talked to first one group and
then another, "seeking ideas and opin
ions." There was apparently no ef
fort to organize and agree upon a
genera plan of procedure. Repre
sentatives of the managers' commit
tee were present.
towns, and we must provide for the
safety of our citizens. We Intend to
build a new hold-over at once, and
on our tour, we have yet to find a
town that is proud of its 'cooler.' Co
lumbia is ahead of many places, and
the recent improvement' in the shape
of the shower-bath is much needed."
The delegation was shown through
the city "cooler," but regained the
open air as soon as possible. What
they witnessed inside is left to the
imagination of the law-abiding citi
zen.
VICTOR II. DRUMM WILL MARRY
By United Tress.
WASHINGTON, Aug. 21. The loss
of millions of dollars in crops coming
in event of s. railway strike was the
new possibility before the administra
tion today,
"f The Treasury Department reported
that agents of federal reserve boards
in the south, north, and northwest
are beginning to ask for annual "crop
moving" funds. The tie-up Vjf the
railroads of the country would mean
that wheat and other products now
ready for the mills would bo held up
indefinitely and probably rot on the
sidetracks if stopped in transit.
This angle of the threatened gigan
tic strike was brought home to offic
ials not only by reports from the
Treasury Department but by the ar
rival of western railroad presidents,
such as Louis W. Hill, whose father's
name was synonymous with the "Em
pire of the Northwest" and with the
wealth of the farm land.
More than two score railwav presi
dents and the 040 brotherhood repre
sentatives held separate meetings to
day to continue discussion of Presi
dent Wilson's proposal for peace.
An outstanding feature of the gath
ering of railway presidents today was
that there appeared no organized plan
afoot to meet the situation created by j
the President's flat refusal to recede
jfrom his prtrposal. Their tentative
Plan was to have the new group of
presidents coming in today see the
President separately and hear from
him the same arguments they heard
Saturday. They anticipated that still
other railway executives may be called
to Washington by the President, they
said.
For their part the brotherhood rep
resentatives through A B. Garretson
hinted at noon today they do not in
tend to deviate from the President's
plan.
Former M. U. Athlete to Wed Miss
Marian Brown of Gilliam, Mo.
Victor H. Drumm, a graduate of the
University, will be married to Miss
Marian Brown of Gilliam, Mo., on
Wednesday night, August 29, at 7
o'clock at the Methodist Church of
that city. The ceremony will prob
ably be performed by a relative of
the bride.
Miss Brown is a graduate of Har
din College at Mexico, Mo., and Is the
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. J. B. Brown
of Gilliam, Mo.
Mr. Drumm received the degree of
B. S. in Agr. in 1915. While at school
he was on the track team in '13, '14,
and 15. and on the football team in
'13 and '14. Since his graduation from
the University he has been teaching
agriculture and taking charge of ath
letics in the high school at Cottonball
Woods, Kan.
After the ceremony the couple will
go to Redficld. S. D.. where they will
make their home. Mr. Drumm will
have charge of athletics in the high
school there.
J. E. Boggs, Democratic committee
man from the Eighth Congressional
District, left yesterday afternoon for
St. Iouis, from where he will go to
night to Jefferson City to be present at
the meeting of the state committee,
which takes place tomorrow.
"Wa are expecting a large number
from over the state, and Columbia will
be well represented," said Mr. Boggs,
before he left. "It is hard to pre
dict all that will happen, but we will
not be back until the services are ended."
D. W. Shackleford, nominee from the
Eighth Congressional District and
Wood Sapp, nominee for representa
tive of Boone County, will be present
at the meeting.
"I have received no program of the
meeting." said Mr. Sapp this morning,
"but the plans for the regular cam
paign will be completed and the plat
form constructed on which the cam
paign will be made."
There will be three Important .gath
erings in Jefferson City tomorrow, the
Youn Men's Democratic Club, the
Democratic State Committee, and the
State Convention.
James Cowgill of Kansas City is the
probable chairman of the State Com
mittee, being the favorite of a majori
ty of the state candidates, including
Col. Fred D. Gardner, candidate for
Governor. It has been a time honored
custom in Missouri politics, for the
State Committee to elect as its chair
man, the man recommended by the
gubernatorial candidate. According
to local politicians. Mr. Cowgill is the
man favored by Gardiner.
i
ie
la ihauge to unsettled weather In this see
j lion. Hlth thiiudorshouers this afternoon
or tonight.
An area of high pressure oerlies the
t northwest, musing cooler Heather through
out the Kocky Mountains. Its eastward
mil will result In cooler ami oarilr
meyer Takes 100.
liy t'nlted Tress.
ATHENS, Aug. 21. Bulgarian troops
are reported within ten miles of the ''""' weather here Tuesday
Greek port of Kavala in their advance ' l.ii iiata.
to attack the Allies' right wing.
Three hundred and l.tly tickets for
, the benefit performance of the Hall
(Theater on August 28. were's'rild le-
into special session because of the '
Bulgarian advance into Greek tcrri- ''?',J!,'l1n' """J'1, :""' ""' '" ": I're-
. cipitatlon, l.."fi.
The Almanac,
today, ."."s a. in.
Sun ros
t:.o p. in.
.Moon rises n ho p. m.
Sun sets.:
Til. Illl'lll.sf ...... .......... f.. ... I 1. .
" '" . I' Illjni.llllH- III 1 OIIll; fn .1 .
vestenlav was 'it u..i ti... i...., ..., IIO. c tile committee met this; nuirnlnr
The Greek cabinet has been called night was v.t; precipitation, .mi- relative! . ,.,,..,
humidity p. m. yesterdav. 41 per rent. I "llullt ' m tommereiai I'lUI)
A j ear ago jestenlay the highest tern-1 ... . . .
. .u...o. ..u iiuuuicu .11111 1111 11 u
j the Virginia Building Company, ami
(one hundred to F. W. Niedermeyer.
i The question of rescrvinir the tirk-
, ets was discussed, and it was decided
I lit tTlA i-ilnmltfn,. fs .. .... 1.
The Temperatures To.laj. " " " v "" '" - ""-
. m. 7i; li a. m. -in f'"" the benefit performance, and those
. I.'.. r.rw "i p.'m. :::::": i "3t a,len(linK n that night mid at-
. m. ss ! p. m'. ...II i tend any night during the week 'be-
; ginning August 2S. If there are 3.000
nL-neis soia. mere win be two per
formances ta take care of the crowds.
i If tbfk lllltlltinn nl .tl.A .1 .
. ...... ., .. - .. , ., i "'- "oiooci ut iiLivuis uues not
I'M itiii lit .'imu' uii ..iirriu minii i .
WILL Sl'RVEY FOR COAL OIL
tory, and three of the highest ranking
generals are attending the conference. .
Kavala, a port of about 5,000 popu-!
lation with considerable trade, was '
taken from Turkey by the Greeks in
the Balkan war. It lies sixteen miles ,
west of the Bulgarian border and has ,
long been coveted by the Bulgars. ,
The government is watching the
Bulgarian invasion of Greece with j
greatest interest. The newspaper Pa-;
tris says the cabinet thus far has not '
reached a decision and will await
further developments.
From the military standpoint the
Bulgarian invasion is considered un
important, so far as the Allies arc' nn . !,, nf fh nnivoraiiv inUin,iM.i,i..i . ,....
concerned. The Bulgars apparently ; ordn to determine where to sink a' day. August 24, at the Hall Theater
are trying to seize strategic positions test we , fim, whcther the oil disJan, w, continue nntn the show
on the Allied flanks, from which to coverC(, on the and of j Sapp Kns at s oVIock AuRllst 2S Tner
deliver attacks when the expected A1-. wiu vicld enougn coa, oi, to make Jts ( wl be onv otle performance on this
lied Offensive begins. Lvlr.netinn rnmniorelallv nrnfitnhle ! nicht.
We should sell 3.000 tickets.'
I reach tlllc mimW nnlinn.nivlit .fill
Slevtnrt Addition. i, ,,,.,,, ,..,.', . . . .
be devoted to the benefit show, but
A survey of the North Garth Stew-'the tickets will ho himnmi ihm,,i,''
. t MM J-,
I art Addition will be started tomorrow ; out the opening week
t'. S. WOT WITHDRAW YET
Troops to Remain on Border Until
Commission Meeting Endx.
I!y I'nited Tress.
WASHINGTON. Aug. 21. The
American troops will not be with
drawn from Mexico until the joint
Mexican-American commission has
met and such action has been recom
mendtd by the American members, a
high official of the War Department
said today.
The statement was made in answer
to a question rearding the action to
be taken upon General Funston's re
port that the troops might be with
drawn without endangering the safe
ty of the border. At the same time
the belief was expressed that the mili
tia on the border would be returned to
their respective states not long af
ter their withdrawal from Mexico and
the border patrol left entirely to the
regular army.
Salonika Reports nn Advance,
ily I'lilted Tress.
SALONIKA. Aug. 21. Bulgarian
forces are advancing south of the
Greek town of Fiorina, despite stub
born Servian resistance. Hard fight
ing continued all
thirty-one miles
Ionlka.
.!,,. .,,. n,nii, -some oil men from
northwest of Sa-
Germans Fail to Retake Flcnry.
fly I'nited Tress.
i
PARIS, Aug. 21. The Germans this i
' r'LOOH LEAVES MANY HOMELESS
morning made a desperate attempt to
recapture the village of Fleury, three
and a half miles northeast of Verdun,
attacking in position after spraying
the French position with liquid fire.
The war office announced that all
German attacks broke down uncfer
heavy French infantry fire.
In yesterday's fighting north of the
Somme, in which the French captur
ed a strongly fortified position be
tween Guillcmont and Maurepas, six
German cannon were taken.
Lively artillerying continued all
along the Somme front this afternoon
but there were no infantry engage
ments of importance.
M. I'. INSTRUCTOR IS MARRIED
Alfred Henry Nolle Weil Mii Rerda
Stenart Wilson in Philadelphia.
Alfred Henry Nolle, instructor in
German at the University, and Miss
Berda Stewart Wilson of Philadel
phia, were married in that city last
Wednesday, August 16.
Mr. Nolle, who received degrees
from the College of Arts and Science
and from the School of Education
here in 1911, is a former resident of
St. Charles. Mo. Mrs. Nolle is the
daughter of Mr. and Airs. Burridge
Wilson of Philadelphia.
Mr. Nolle will be back in Columbia
next month to resume his duties in
the University and. with his wife, will
be at home to their friends on Conley
avenue.
AUTO WRECK ON PRICE AVENUE
Ronser Car Collides With R. L. Kin
ley's Machine.
A car belonging to the Bowser
Taxicab Company collided with a car
owned and driven by R. L. Finley, 501
Williams street, about 8 o'clock last,
night on Price avenue. No one was t
hurt.
The Bowser car was returning from
Moberly, and the ligths were dim,
when the car driven by Mr. Finley
came from behind a buggy and the
two cars collided. The service car's
front axle was broken, and the run
ning boards of the other car were
badly bent.
Rritish Forced to Retreat.
j Ity t'nlted Tress.
LONDON, Aug. 21. British covering
patrols withdrew before strong enemy
forces northeast of Fourcaux woods in
last night's fighting, but the Germans
were unable to follow up the advance
because of the British artillery fire.
General Haig reported this afternoon.
The Germans three times attacked
British positions at Foureaux wood
after heavy bombardment but each
time were repulsed.
Russians Announce Advance.
My I'nited Tress.
j PETROGRAD. Aug. 21. The Rus-
sians further advanced their lines in
If the results are fa-orab!e a com-t e should sell 3.000 tickets." said
pany will be formed and operations S. F. Conley, chairman of the sale
started immediately. I committee this morning. "I will
Tests of the oil on the surface have agree to sell .100 nlyself. and others
revealed, according to G. W. Martin, ! should do as well. If anyone buys a
State Chemist, E. B. Branson, and j large number if tickets, it is a good
Oklahoma, the Plan to 'I" to sell the majority of them
presence of coal oil of the highest "" ol iown. ana in mat way we will
quality Nothing positive will be cover more ground, and at the same
known until the test well is sunk. time Sive the local committees a Def
ter chance in their territories. There
are several out-of-town delegations
coming to the benefit performance.
and we look for a full house."
Where the -Committee; Work.
The following branch committees
were appointed and given a district
in which to work:
Eighth street, from the University
to the Fair grounds; J. W. Schwabe.
C. B. Rollins. Jr.. and II. M. McPheet-ers.
North side Broadway, from Eighth
street to Evans Lake: N. D. Evans,
II. S. Jacks, and Tom McIIarg.
South side Broadway, from Eighth
street to Evans Lake; I. A. Barth.
John Holloway. and R. B. Price. Jr.
Broadway, from Eighth street west;
Tom Taylor, and E. S. Stephens.
Ninth and Walnut streets: L. J.
Slate. F. W. Niedermeyer, and II. A.
Collier.
The University; Ray Watson. A. II.
Welch and Roy Wharton.
Tenth. Cherry. Eighth, and Ash
J streets; S. F. Conley, Rex Magce. and
Jlaimigc in Texns Storm Is Estimated
at $2,001)0.000.
Ity I'nited Tress.
DALIES. Tex.. Aug. 21. Thousands
of families are homeless today in the
south gulf region as the result of Fri
day's hurricane, and preparations are
being made throughout the state this
afternoon to rush supplies, tenting
and funds to them.
The storm-swept area extends from
Corpus Christ! south to Brownsville
and inland from thirty to forty miles.
The death toll was placed at thirteen
to sixteen this afternoon and the total
property loss at $2,000,000. The dam
ace includes that to the opening cot
ton crop.
STEPHENS POOL OVERFLOWS
Someone Forpot to Turn Off the Wa
tcr and Flood Results.
Teachers living at Stephens College ' j. tj. Powell.
severe fighting along the Stochod
River, northeast of Kovel yesterday, it
vras officially announced today, mak
ing progress near Toboly, in the re
gion of Rudka.
this summer were awakened "about
1:30 o'clock this morning by a noise,
which, according to one present.
"sounded like the roar of Niagara
Falls."
The swimming-pool at the college
is filled every Sunday night, and the
water was turned on last night and
Tickets were given each chairmnn.
and every team got away to a flying
start. O. B. Wilson was made treas
urer, and E. S. Stephens, secretary of
the sale committee.
The committees will meet at 8:30
o'clock in the mornins at the Com
mercial Club to make report'?.
forgotten. When discovered, that part
of the gymnasium was under water JAMES CLOUSER IS DISCHARGED
and the official swimming-pool was .
inundated. A stopper was pulled y,n ' Jo,i'ph Pn,'r'" romml'"ilon
one of the bravest,
the pool was dry.
and this morning
To Re School Superintendent.
Mr. and Mrs. L. W. Watson, who
have been spending the summer in
Columbia, left this afternoon for
Dresden. Mo., where Mr. Watson will
be superintendent of schools the
Answering persistant qtiestions that coming year.
DAMAGE CASE IS UNSETTLED
Charles Miller Is Sued by Joe Morris
f Near Here.
The case of Joe Morris, a farmer
near Columbia, against Charles Millcr.
in which the plaintiff is asking-for $60
actual damages and $190 for physical
and mental anguish resulting from a
collision of Morris's motorcycle with
Miller's automobile on June 17. was
heard in justice court this afternoon
by Judge W. B. Kurtz. Judge Kurtz
took the case under advisement and
will cive a decision tomorrow.
1,000 MILES AND NO PUNCTURES
ARE MOTORING TO OKLAHOMA
C. L.
Take Action on Chief.
Ily I'nited Tress.
ST. JOSEPH. Mo., Aug. 21. Chief
of police James Clouscr late this aft
ernoon was "fired" by the new board
of police commissioners appointed by
Acting Governor Painter after he re-
i fused to resign. Deputy-Sheriff Moore
was made new chief. Clouser had re
fused to recognize the board. It was
Visits Miss Dorothy Wise.
Miss Minnie Rosenthal of Sedalia is
visiting Miss Dorothy Wise this week.
Martin and Son Are on a Cross
Country Trip.
Hermann f mikridc Makes Motor Trip ' c. L. Martin and son. C. L. Martin.
Maj Moe Here. I Jr., are stopping in Columbia on their
"A thousand miles without a punc- ( wav to their home in Bartlcsville. thp fjrst action of thp ncw. i,oar(j a-
ture" is the record of Herman Cook- Okla. Two years ago Mr. Martin and p0jntc,i to succccrt Doctor Crandell
ride of Fowler, Colo., who came here j his family, equipped with tents and i aml w D McDonald, who were oust
in a car Saturday evening, accompan-j other camping paraphernalia motored C( bj. fhp actinB governor last week.
led by Mrs. I. Fenton and her son-in- ' from Oklahoma east through Missouri, i
law of Columbia, who have been at . The heavy rains caught them and j ym s inTl.f irafo.,, j'anama President.
Cookride's home in Fowler, arrang-imade it impossible to proceed. The rsy fnlte.1 Tress.
intr a land deal whereby they will ac-j car was left at Warrcnstown, M0..1 NEW YORK, Aug. 21. Secretary mt
quire Mr. Cookride's property in Fow-. and now Mr. Martin and his son have 1 State Lansing admitted this afterioos
ler in eychange for their property j gone back for it and are driving It
here four and a half miles northeast 1 home.
of Columbia. Cookride will stay here
until Thursday. If the deal goes ; Killed in Explosion,
through he expects to make Columbia Ily t'nlted Vn.
his home. JACKSON, Tenn., Aug. 21. Seven
i men were killed and two seriously in-
Ijured today when boilerB of the Har
lan and Morris woodworking plant
exploded, shattering buildings half a
mile away.
Frank Chambers Is Sick.
Frank Chambers. University regis
trar, is confined to his bed. It is
thought he has typhoid fever.
that an investigation is being made of
charges that Ramond Valdez. newly
elected president of Panama, was in
strumental in getting a land conces
sion of about 60,000 acres for a Span
iard named Farnandcz.
Spends Day in Hallsrille.
Earle S. Dysart, a clerk In 'the 9x-
change National Bank, spent yester
day with relatives at Hallsville.
