THE BARRE DAILY TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 134.
BARRE. VERMONT, MONDAV, AUGUST 21, 1016.
PIUCK. OXK CKXT.
ITALY
SENDS
TROOPS
Force Began Disembarking
at Saloniki Sunday and
Received a Great Ovation
on March to the Camp,
Says a Havas Despatch
from That Point to Paris
MEANS STATE OF WAR
WITH GERMANY
Because Germany Is Direct
ing Operations Against
the Entente Allies at That
Point Italy Had Long
Been Urged to Participate
in the Balkan Warfare
Paris, Aug. 21. The Italian troops be
gan disembarking at Saloniki yesterday,
nays a Havas despatch from that point
On leaving the ships the Italians passed
through Saloniki to their camp preceded
by military bands and cheered by the
populace.
Active participation by the Italian
troops in the Saloniki campaign would
mean the existence of a state of war be
tween Italy and Germany. Germany is
directing operations against the allies at
this point. Italy, which has a consider
able surplus of troops, has been urged to
take a more active part in the Balkan
operations but refrained partly on ac
count of the fact that she was not at
war with Germany. J here nave oeen
several recent indications that declara
tions were forthcoming.
BRITISH LOST
TWO CRUISERS
IN BATTLE
London Publicity Agent Declares On
German Submarine Wit Sunk and
Another Was Rammed, But
Berlin Doei Not Ad
mit Lof.
London, Aug. 21 .Two British light
cruisers, the Nottingham and Falmouth,
were sunk Saturday in the North sea by
German submarines while the vessels
were tcarching for the German high seat
fleet, according to an official announce
ment issued by the admiralty shortly
before midnight. One German aubmarine
was destroyed by the British, while an
other was rammed and possibly stink,
according to the admiralty statement,
which followt:
"Reports from our -lookout squadrons
and other unitt showed that there was
considerable activity on the part of the
enemy in the North sea Saturday, the
19th. -
'The German high teas fleet came out,
but learning from their scout that the
British forces were in considerable
strength the enemy avoided an engage
ment and returned to port.
"In searching for the enemy we lost
two cruisers bv submarine attacks II.
M. S. Nottingham, Cnpt. C. B. Miller,
and H. M. S. Falmouth, Capt. John Ed
wards. "All the officers of the former were
saved, but 38 of the crew are missing.
All the officers and men of the Falmouth
were saved, but one leading stoker, Nor
man Fry, "riled of injuries.
"An enemy submarine was destroyed
and another was rammed and possibly
sunk.
"There is no truth in the German
statement that a British destroyer was
were struck by torpedoes and damaged."
THE SITUATION
STILL HAS HOPE
Railroad Officials Are Said
to Be Considering a
Counterproposal
TO AVERT STRIKE
THROUGH NATION
KNOCKED DOWN
AND RUN OVER
INTERESTING PICNIC PROGRAM
Wat Carried Out Under Autpicet of the
Barre Rangers.
The Barre liangera Football club held
its annual picnic at Caledonia nark Sat
unity afternoon, when members of the
club, their wives and other Invited guests
to the number of jno had a very enjoy
dutg11',".:. .SSwVrS Assistant Judge Gardyne of
interest ing' program of races and other
sports. Among the feature of the latter
were the egg and spoon com pet 'ion and
the thread and needle race, A baseball
game was played, the teams being rap
tained by James Mitchell and John Du
Franklin County the
Victim
guid, the first named team winning, 5 t" CrDTOTTCI V TJTTTJT nxr
4. Harper Mitchell's umpiring featured. OttlUUOLil ilUltl UJN
ST. ALBANS STREET
Reported to Tie Discussing
Partial Concession and
Partial Arbitration
Berlin, by wireless to Sayville, Aug.
21. The admiralty announced to-day
that a German submarine Saturday
sank a small cruiser and a destroyer
near the British east coast and damaged
another small cruiser and a battleship.
The statement follows:
"A German submarine off the British
east coast on Aug. 19 destroyed a small
cruiser and a destroyer of the enemy.
Another small cruiser and a Iwttleship
were struck by torepdoes and damaged."
Washington, Aug. 21. The arrival to
day of Iajuis W. Hill, president of the
Great Northern, ami 'other western rail
road executives in response to President
Wilson's summons, promise important
development in the threatened nation
wide railroad htrike situation. Hailroad
heuds representing properties valued at
about $10,000,000 are to be here for the
next conference with the president.
lulo the railroad olhoials have tenta
tively refused to accept the settlement
plan of President Wilson, they are said
to be considering the counter proposal to
include arbitration of some points in dis
pute and the granting of others.
The leaders among the railroad execu
tives declared they nere unitad against
the president's plans as they htand, but
hoped to rind some way to accept the
eight-hour day basis and still conserve
the principle of arbitration. Both sides
to day declared the situation serious but
not hopeless.
President Wilson at noon sent word to
the railway president!, asking them to
call on him at the White House at 2:30
this afternoon, to which they agreed.
President Wilson defended his plan in
a reply to a telegram from George Pope,
president of the National Association ot
The issue in several other sporting en
tries is given below.
Boys' race (under 10), ,1, Ironside 1st,
E. Melvin 2d. K. Milne 3d: girla' race
(under 10), Maggie Davidson 1st, Ruth
McKnight 2d. .1. McDonald 3d; bovs over
10, G. Ironside lt. J. Walker 2d. .1.
Greig 3d; girls over 10, Magglv Clark
1st, Delia Walker 2d. Jrannette Walker
3d; married ladies' race, Mrs. John Du
guid 1st, Mrs. James Hogg 2d, Mrs
Chappies 3d; single ladies' race. Bella
Ihompson and Jdive Mcknight tied for
1st, Bella Patterson 2d; thread the nee
lie (for meni, A. McDonald 1st, A.
Brown 2d, J. Duguid 3d; egg and spoon
race, ,1. Duguid 1st. A. McDonald 2d, A
Brown 3d; thread the needle race for
ladies, Olive McKnight 1st, Mrs. A. Find-
lay 2d. Mrs. A. McDonald 3d; married H. F. Delude. As far as it has been dia
men s race, D. jlcBeam 1st, H. Christie rQV-,J . th. h.,.r,u,l h,. h.
2d, J. Mellaflie 3d; single men's race. A. , . . . . -"'" " " "'
Brown lt. J. McDonald 2d, A. Bentle WKen n'ght' h had two r,b brok
3d; men's race (over 40), C. Greig 1st, 'n n1 WM badly cut about the head
R. Paterson 2d. A. Mtirey 3d; grand-1 Judge and Mrs. Gardvne and Dr. and
fathers' race. If. Mitchell 1st, Robert Mrs. R. D. Worden of Montgomery came
McKnight 2d. Adam Wood 3d. to St, Albans bv automobile yesterday to
The committee was made up as fol- visit the former counle's daughter, who
lows: President, Charles Scott; John was operated on a week airo. They
. v, . I . : - . r "
-Maimers, secretary ; ueorge Anderson, drove down Lake street and the car wa
William Hrebner, Alexander watt, John stopped while Judge Gardyne got out and
.'icitmnon, Aiexsnaer Anderson, Andrew went to a cigar store. rindinc the e cu
walker, I). .Mclfeam, Robert rlndlay. Jo- store cosed, he started to cross the
septi mil and John leals. street to the St. Albans house without
Car Was Being Driven by
H. F. Delisle and Was
Soon Stopped
St. Albant, Aug. 21. Assistant Judge
C. A. Gardyne of Montgomery was se
riously injured in this city last evening
when he was knocked down and run over
by an automobile owned and operated by
PICNIC ON HILL FARM.
apparently, looking. Just at the moment
the Delisle car was coming along. The
occupants shouted to the pedestrian and
FLAMING LIQUID
USED IN VAIN
BY GERMANS
Fleury Still Remains in French Hands,
Declares Paris Official Statement,
Despite Violent Attack During
Sunday Night.
Paris, Aug. 21. The Germans deliv
ered a violent attack on Fleury near Ver
dun last night, using flaming liquid, but
without result, says the war office state
ment to-day. j
This is the first appearance in the
North sea of strong German naval forces
since the battle of Jutland on May 31.
The first news that the Germans had left
the shelter of their mine fields and fortt.
fled bases were brought to Holland by
trawlers which reported sighting a Ger
man squadron of Jo warships including
large cruisers. This fleet was accom
panied by two Zeppelins and was steer
ing northwest in the region of White-
bank.
a ir. A more
Manufacturers, ursine that the principle j perfect day for a picnic coud not have
of arbitration be preserved in the strike been chosen. Soon after the noon hour,
Hoyt & Milne Employes Had a Gay Time he looked up, hesitated just a moment
and waa then struck on one side by a
fender of the car. The blow whirled
him around and then knocked him to the
street, after which the machine ran over
him.
The automobile waa stopped within 50
on Saturday,
The Hoyt A Milne granite firm em
ployes assembled in the IMcrson grove on
the west hill Saturday to enjoy the
freshness of the hillside
negotiations. Mr. Popes telegram fol
lows: 'Hartford, Conn.. Aug. 18, 1918.
"The President, the White House:
"On behalf of thirty-seven hundred
manufacturing organizations employing
three million persons, and utterly de- ;
uie crowd naa reached the grove, some
making the journey in automobiles, oth
ers in teams, and some reached their des
filiation by foot. After the lunch hour,
frames were started an. I continued during
the afternoon until along toward sun
set, and out on the greensward, many
feet and the occupants went back to
assist in the care of the injured man. The
full extent of his injuries has not yet
been ascertained.
HOLDING THEIR OWN
Italians Are Consolidating the Ground
They Have Won.
Rome, via London,. Aug. 21. The Ital
ians who advanced in the region east of
Goritzia and on the Carso plateau are
holding fast to the ground won, occupy
ing themselves with consolidating the recently-
captured positions.. To-day's war
office statement reports no important in
fantry, activity on any portion of the
Austro-Italian front. Violent artillery
duels, however, are in progress, notably
in the Trentino, where the Austrian gun-
ners have shown especial activity.
pendent upon uninterrupted railroad close and interesting races were contest
service for the.tr operation. I beg at oneejed by the more athletic members. During
io express our oeep appreciation or your
efforts to prevent the threatened de-
PLAINFIELD RAID
ENDS IN 6 ARRESTS
structive stoppage of national railroad
service, and to respectfully urge that
you win with all the power ot youn
the afternoon, Messrs. Hoyt and Milne
gave a very interesting talk.
Unusual interest was taken in the
races which were won as follows: Girls
Sunder eight years), Miss Ethel Milne
great office and personality assert audi 1st, Miss Wa G-UUv 2d, Miss J. Cam-
maintain the principle of arbitration forpania 3d ; girls (under twelve). Miss Mary
industrial disputes affecting national in- j Campania 1st, Miss C. Bngnaschi 2d,
tercourse. i just demand can fear euch JMis Hazel Lundy 3d; boys (under eight)
a teM ; no unfair demand can or should j John Milne 1st. Walter Lundy 2d; boys
survive it. ie sincerely believe no man (under twelve). It-alo Bagnaschi 1st, Har-
m our history has possessed such an op-:ry Milne 2d, William Gellatty 3; men's
pomiriuy to tortuy this essential pnn- race, Harry McLcod 1st. A. Milne 2d. C.
ciple of public security against future j Hengavi 3d; ladies' race, Mrs. John Milne ing been arrested Saturday night ns the
Washington County Officers Seixed Six
Barrels of Beer and Six Quart Bottles
of Whiskey Saturday Night Re-
spondents to Be Given Hear
ing Before Judge Harvey.
An even half dozen respondents, in
cluding one woman, all Plainfield resi
dents, faced Judge K. M. Harvey in
Montpelier city court this forenoon, hav
SLASHED THROAT; CALLED AID.
RUSSIANS SEIZE
1,300 MEN IN 2 DAYS
ON STOKHOD LINE
Have Made Furthr Advances Where They
Broke Through the Teuton Line
Last Week, War Office at
Petrograd Says.
Petrograd, via London, Aug. 21. The
Russians made further advances along
the Stokhod line at some points where
they broke through the Austro-Hunga-rian
defenses last week, the war office
announced to-day. The capture, of more
than 1.300 men in this diatirct in two
days is reported.
GERMAN PEACE
OFFERS CANNOT
BE ENTERTAINED
Becaure They Are Either Intolerable or
Humiliating to Some of the Allies,
Declared Premier Asquith.
Y London, Aug. 21. The German govern
ment as yet has shown no disposition to
agree to peace except on terms that
would be intolerable or humiliating to
some of the allies, said Premier Asquith,
replying in the House of Common) to
day to Sir William Pollard Byles, one of
the little group of peace advocates.
The suggestion of Dr. Zimmerman, the
German under secretary for foreign af
fairs, that the entente is influenced by
pressure from Great Britain is quite un
true, added the premier. Asked further
whether terms of any kind had been sug
gested, the premier replied: "Only wfiat
has been seen in the press; nothing offi
rial."
E. A. Starkey Apparently Regretted His
Rash Act He May Live.
Vergennes, Aug. 21. V. A. Siarkey
of Brattleboro, about 65 years old, a
traveling salesman for the R. E. Den
nison company of Rochester, attempted
suicide at the Stevens house here about
7 o'clock Sunday morning, cutting his
throat with a razor. The man wa3
rushed to the Mary Fletcher hospital at
Burlington by automobile and it is
stated that he has a chance of recovery.
When asked why he attempted to take
his life he said he had ftothing to live
for.
Starkey is married but has not been
living with his wife for some time. For
the last two or three months he has
been making his headquarters at the
Stevens house and has been traveling
through this territory by team.
It is evident that after Starkey had
drawn the razor blade across his throat
he. regretted his act and had a great dee-ire
to live as he rang furiously for a
bellboy. When , the boy readied the
room he found Starkey lying on the bed
with the blood gushing from the gaping
wound, the bedding being soaked. By
means of signs the man instructed the
boy to lose no time in summoning medi
cal aid.
Dr. V. W. Waterman, who was sum
moned, found that the razor had missed
the jugular vein but had severed the
windpipe. After rendering first aid Dr.
Waterman had the injured man hurried
to Burlington by automobile. Starkey
has a wife, a daughter and a sister liv ing
at Brattleboro.
attack by employer or employe.
"'George Pope,
''President Xational Association of
Manufacturers."
The president replied:
"Allow me to acknowledge the receipt
of your telegram of August Ifith and to 'and Alexander Moir.
say in reply that I hold to the principle
of arbitration with as clear a conviction TWO AUTOISTS SUED
and as firm a purpose as anyone, but
that unfortunately there is no means j Drivers of Teams Claim They Were Neg-
now in existence oy wmcn aroiliation
1st. Mrs. Mason 2d. Mrs. Gellattv 3d:
children's raco, A. Hengavi 1st, Henry
McLeod; fat ladies race, Mrs. Web
ster 1st, Mrs. Comolli 2d. The commit
tee in charge of the races were George
Andrews, Harry MeLeod, John Milne,
can be secured. The existing means have
been tried and have failod. This situa
tion must , never be allowed to arise
again, but it has arisen. Some means
must be found to prevent its recurrence,
but no means can be found off hand or
In a hurry or in season to meet the pres
ent national emergency. What I am pro
posing does not weaken or discredit the
principles of arbitration. It strengthens
it. rather. It proposes that nothing be
conceded except the eight-hour day, to
which the whole economic movement of
the time seems to point, and the imme
diate creation of an agency for deter
mining all the arbitrary elements in this
case in the light, not of predictions or
forecasts, but of established and ascer
tained facts. This is the first stage of
the direct road to the discovery of the
best permanent basis for arbitration
when other means than those now avail
able are supplied."
READY FOR THE FIFTH TOUR
MORE ALARM FELT
STRANGLED SELF
WITH TRUNK STRAP
Jlrs. Mary Woodworth Committed Sui
cide at the Home of Her Son in
Enosbarg Center Sunday.
Ennsburg Center, Aug. 21. Mrs. Mary
Woodworth, aged 6" years, waa found
ded yesterday at the home of her
Km. Fred Hamlet, where she bad resided
for tome months. When found ahe had
a trunk strap around her neck, and this
u hitched to the knob of a eloeed dorr.
Ia this manner she strangled bereclf.
Tb funexal waa held to-day, with burial
Barre Board of Trade Goes to East Ran
dolph Wednesday Evening.
Members of the Barre Board of Trade
n.iease remeinher the next better ac
quaintance tour occurs Wednesday even
ing, Aug. 23, with supper and entertain
ment at East Randolph. Carroll's or
chestra will furnish music at the supper
and the Barre band will give an outdoor
concert. The Board of Trade will show
about loO views of Barre and her indus
tries. Owners of automobiles will please
off er the use of their machines for this
trip to the automobile committee, B. W.
Hixker, G. I!. Varnum, E. C. Glvsson.
Tickets for the supper, 50 cents each, can
be purchasel from the above committee
or from H. A. Phelps. Purchasers of
As Infantile Paralysis Starts Out With tickets will have free transportation to
r t v , , , nq irom r.ast nannoipn.
New Rush in New York. -.4 K
. I The eommmittee recognizes the pen-
Xew York, Aug. 21. the center of the 'erous support tliev have received in mak-
infantile paralvsis epidemic shifted to-' ing these tret together occasions the sue
day from Brooklyn to Manhattan and'-ess thev have proved. These trips are
there were more deaths and new cases in certainly an advertisement to Barre and
the latter borough than at any tinie;a great help in cementing together the
since the inception of the disease. Dur- I social and community spirit, locally and
ing the 24 hours ending at 10 oVloi k this I with our neighbors. Automohii.-s will
morning, the plague killed 33 children in jcome for people in front of the city hat
the five boroughs of Xew York City and 'at S:4o o'clock
92 new case were reported. Seventeen j
of the deaths were reported from Man- j FiVE DEAD IN EXPLOSION,
hattan. Since the epidemic bejrsn there j
have been ,20 cases and l..V) deaths, a Mnmtinn. F.efn in Mir..) r,,.
ligent and Careless.
Two suits in Washington county court
entered for trial at the September term
are the result of collisions between au
tomobiles and horse-drawn vehicles.
Adclbert J. Persons of Calais asks dam
ages of $400 from Aubrey V. Nelson of
Cabot, the pMainfiff alleging that the de
fendant was negligent while driving an
automobile in Montpelier on Main street
on the morning of July 8, circus day, re
sulting in the plaintiff's valuable driving
horse being so badly injured that it had
to be shot.
A. D. Harris of Montpelier, the owner
of a garage on Elm street, is made the
defendant in a suit for $1,000 brought
bv Arthur Baker of East ' Montpelier,
The plaintiff asserts that Harris drove
an automobile negligently, recklessly and
carelessly on the Kast Montpelier Center
road on July 6 and that the defendant
ran into his team, destroying the wagon
and injuring the horse. Fred L. Laird is
attorney for the plaintiff in each case.
A divorce case. Alma C. Paris vs. Au
gustus Taris, with E. M. Harvey for the
petitioner, has alo been entered.
Primary Petitions Filed.
Saturday primary petitions w..e filed
with, the county clerk by H. F. Hill of
Waterbury and Frank C. Bancroft of
BaiTe Town, candidates for the state
Senate. Petitions hnve now been filed
by four candidates, H. F. Hill, Frank O.
Bancroft. Dr. F. E. Steele of Montpelier
and D. R. Demeritt of Duxbury. The
contest is between Demeritt and Hill,
both of whom represented their respec
tive towns in the last legislative assem
blv. To-morrow being the last day al
lowed for filing petitions it is expectei
that the Democratic candidates will file
their papers with the clerk sometime to
da v.
result of a raid made by an automobile
load of deputy sheriffs. The officers
were successful in finding six barrels of
beer and six quart bottles of whiskey,
and inasmuch as the five men and their
woman companion insisted that they
each had a share in the ownership of the
alleged contraband goods the entire
party was taken to the county jail and
arraigned together this morning.
Atty. William Lord represented the re
spondents, who gave the following
names: M. Rizzi, G. Becilli, Virginia
Edine, A. Kdine, G. Pedioli and G. Or
lando. Their counsel asked that the
eases be continued for a hearing, the date
of which will be arranged later, and no
plans were entered, bail being fixed m
each case at &iw, the hondsmen txung
Toseph D. Ossola and Carlo Merlo of
Barre.
The search warrant was issued by
State's Atty. Fred E. Gleason and in the
raiding party were Deputy Sheriffs
Henry Lawson, Roy Getman and A. A.
Emery of Montpelier, Frank Blodah of
Xorth Montpelier and E. D. Bartlett of
Plainfield. The officers descended upon
the Kdine house about 9 o'clock and
found in addition to the six ipentioned
one other roan drinking. This forenoon
the state was represented by Grand Jur
or A. C. Theriault in the absence of the
state's attorney. '
SEVERAL INJURED
IN TROLLEY SMASI
Barre and Montpelier Car Ran Into Open
Switch and Struck Standing Can at
Intercity Park Last Evening
One Passenger Sustained a
Broken Arm.
Five people, including Conductor Brig
ham, were more or less injured at
o'clock laat evenina when one of the
main line cart of the Barre t Montpelier
Traction & Power Co, ran into an open
switch at the Intercity park aiding and
crashed into three other cars stationed
there awaiting the conclusion of the mo
tion picture ahow.
The following persons reported to the
conductor that they had sustained, in
juries when the collision occurred
George Rossi of 14 Granite street, Barre
two teeth knocked out; Marachievelll
Ottaine, 13 Second street, Barre, broken
arm; Louis Gotler, Seminary street,
Barre, leg injured: V. Rosselli, Moon
street, Boston, Mass., leg injured. Con
ductor Brigham auffered a wrenched
shoulder and back, but is able to attend
to his duties to-day.
The car left Montpelier at 8:30 o'clock
bound for Barre and was well filled. The
car, under the direction of Motorman
Frank Chandler, was proceeding quite
rapidly and when it failed to keep to the
main line track the impact with the sta
tionaTy cars was quite severe, damaging
the car so badly that it had to be towed
back to the car barn along with two of
the other cars. The passengers were
transferred to another waiting trolley
and taken to Barre and those who com
plained of injuries were probably attend
ed by physicians when they reached that
city."
BUMPED BY STREET CAR
Frank Montgomery Couldn't Tell How
He Came to Be in Barre.
A hiatus in which Frank Montgomery
of St. Johnsbury narrowly escaped with
his life ended at the City hospital Sun
day morning when the man, recovering
consciousness, asked attaches at the in
stitution to account for his presence
there and to explain how he came to be
in Barre instead of in St. Johnsbury. If
Montgomery had been the least bit
skeptical, it would have taken nurses,
doctors, car operators and chauffeurs to
answer all his questions. But the pa
tient seemed perfectly content to tak
the nurses at their word while they told
him that he had been injured when
northbound street ear ran into him just
south of the greenhouse on the Mont
nelier road Saturday evening aroun
7:25 o'clock.
Then it dawned on Montgomery that
the accident must have had something
to do with multiple contusions about hi
forehead and a very lame feeling in the
right hip. As for his own part of the ex
planatton, the man was able to contrib
ute the Information that he was in St.
Johnsbury at last accounts, aid last ac
counts being Saturday morning. Con
ductor Ray E. Coppins and Motorman
Fred Murray, aboard the car due to reach
ltv square at 7:40 oclock, state that
Montgomery seemed to walk in front of
the car with ft good deal of deliberation
If such was the case, he made up his
mind after it was too late to stop the
car, with the result that the man was
thrown into the highway. Then the car
was stopped and while the car operator
hailed a passing motorist, first aid meas
ures were used in a vain effort to restore
Montgomery to consciousness.
Asa Tvrell, who lives at 5 Hill street
happened along in his auto and volun
teered to hurry the man to the City hos
pital. Physicians at the hospital dressed
a number of lacerations on his forehead
and told the attaches not to discharge
him until Sunday night.
Passengers and the operators of the
street car were of one mind when it came
to saying that the burden of blame for
the accident rested a good deal on Mont
gomery. Yesterday he made rapid strides
in the direction of shaking off the effects
of the hiatus and by night he was ready
to leave the hospital.
FARMERS FROM
FAR AND NEAR
Attended Joint Picnic and
Field Day of Two County ,
Farm Rnr -i
SUCCESSFU' -''AY
IN A-EATURES
Fully 1,50(7 People Attended
the Events at Barre
Trotting Park I
THOUGHT MAN DEAD.
But
ROBBED BY FOOTPADS
ON RAILROAD TRACKS
John McLean of Waterbury Told Story
to Police Who Are Seeking the
Men Story Also Resulted
in Raid.
THOMAS LOVEJOY EMERSON.
DISEASE ARRESTED.
Only so New Cases of Paralysis in Mas
sachusetts.
Boston. Aug. 21. The spread of infan
tile paralysis in this ft ate bus been ar
retted, temporarily, at eat. according
to reports of the state health d prtmnt
to day. Only ten new ease cie foiir. 1
duricg the past 4 hnnrs, less than waa
fchowa ia the recent djuljr reortfi.
aged Jjo,ooo.
Montreal, P. Q.. Anc. 21 Five men
were killed, six probably fatally injured,
and eight othtrs seikmsly hurt in a fire
early yesterday in the .F.tna Chemical
company's powder factory at lhummond
vtlle. t,me. The fire i believed to have
r-ulted from an t let trie spark hiih
dropped from the conveyor belt int one
of the ponder bins in the Wending hone.
huh was dtrovel. The merer loss it
ittjsutcd at
Died Saturday Night After Illness with
Pneumonia.
Thomas Lovejoy Emerso. for many
years a resident of Barre, died at the
home of his daughter, Mrs. R H. Fapp,
in South Bane at midnight Saturday,
Uie end following an illness of lobar
pneumonia. Resides the daughter with
whom be male hi home, he leaves a
daughter. Miss Mninie Emerson, two
sons. Norman tinerson and thsrles l-.m-erson:
two brothers. Henry E.nerson of
Washington and. L. H. Emerson of j
Worcester. Mas.; and a grandson. Mer- j
ton Emerson of Hartford, lonn. The
deceased was horn in
13. 137
months and sis days old. His wile, who j
Alvira B. lRift Emerson, died ev- j
era I years ago. j
The funeral will he held at the home
of P
oVI
Eearly Sunday morning John McLean
of Waterbury staggered into police
headquarters and told the officers that
he had been robbed of $30. Disclosures
which he made prompted Grand Juror
William Wishart to dispatch three of
ficers on a raid this forenoon with the
result that Mrs. Enrichetta Ambrosini
v as arrested on a charge of selling liquor
illegally and held in the sum of $n50 for
her appearance at a hearing to-morrow
morning. Officers John W. Dineen and
J. S. Murley and Constable G. L. Morris
confiscated two barrels of ale, a quantity
of bottled beer and whiskey at the
woman's premises on Railroad street.
At noon Mrs. Ambrosini thought she
would be unable to furnish bail.
McLean told the police that he drank
H glasses of beer at Ambrosini's place
late Saturday night. Soon after he left
the house two men caught up with him
on the C. V. tracks, accosted him rouehlv
and then laid him nut with a sharp blow
;on the head. V hen he recovered con
sciousness, ne went. on. a roll of bills
amounting to more than $40 was mias
ing. McLean is held as a material wit-
Hyde Park June i "f "l v , P
and was therefore ,! years, two,
He Was Only Unconscious After
Being Knocked Off Car.
John Pompi of Smith place was
knockea irom the steps of a moving
electric car, striking his head on a tele
phone pole near the Wells & Lamson
stoneshed while on his way to the band
concert at Benjamin Falls yesterday aft
ernoon. The car had just left the siding
and was going at good speed when the
accident took place, and before the ears
could be stopped, the one which he had
been on and the one in the rear, had
both passed him. The crowd, from the
four cars which were conveying the peo
ple to the concert and b,ll game were
awe-stricken as they saw the man lying
within a few inches of the rail as though
he had been run over by the car and
apparently dead; but the conductor, with
the aid of bystanders, carried him to
the shaded side of the stoneshed and
he commenced to show signs of conscious
ness. Dr. F. -X. Z. Archambault, who
happened to be passing by, wag called
to examine the man and found no bones
broken; and a hurry call was sent to
the Perrv 4 Xoonan ambulance which
carried the man to his home.
Mr. Pompi later said that he could not
give any reason tor toe accident, only
that he thought that he was crowded a
little by those near him and on turning
his head must have come in contact with
the pole which stands within a few feet
of the track at this point.
After he had been taken to his home,
a more thorougn examination was giv
en hint, but the doctor stated that noth
ing that would be apt to prove serious
could be located at that time.
BEARERS WERE GRANDSONS.
Morse Was
Joint Grange Meeting Tuesdiy.
The Capital City gTange will hnM
Caledonia park Tuesday and i
Funeral of Mrs. Maria E.
Held Sunday.
The funeral of Mrs. Maria E. Morse,
for miny years a resident of Plainfield,
nhose death at the age of S2 rears oc
curred at the home of her daughter. Mrs.
Walter I.add at ntler Corner, Orange. ;mtt!e received the blue rihhona and a,
Friday evening, was held at the house , .how ing of horsea bv Mr. Carleton of
Sunday afternoon at 2:30 o'clock. Rv. !pt Montpelier was highly commended.
A. W." Hewitt, pastor of the Metbeii-t j Prof. George E. Storey of the I'nirer-
chtmh in riainri'-H. officiating. Ti e besr-' ity of Vermont agricultural extension
er were sis grands ns ft the deceased. I a in charge of the demonstration an1
Farmers of Washington and Orange
counties, with their wives, children and '
other guests as "company," assembled
Saturday in a big get-together in Barra
with the Ayers street driving park as a
setting for most of the features that
were entertaining and instructive. It
was a day that is bound to bulk large in
the development of fraternal relations
between the two county farm bureaus
that inaugurated plans for the outing.
Conservative estimates fix the. atend-
ance at 1,600 or thereabouts, but there
were plenty of people on the grounds in
the afternoon who wei ready to uess
that 2,000 would better approximate the
number that really participated in the
affair. Delightful weather, if a bit swel- )
tering, prevailed and there were few if ;
any towns in the two counties that were
not represented.
Agriculturists began to arrive in the
citv from nearbv towns in the early fore
noon and by 1 o'clock people were
swarming into the park. There were 500
people on the grounds in the morning to
witness the stock judging contests and,
demonstrations. Almost at the same-
hour in the day Howland hall was crowd- j
ed with women while a demonstration in
home economies by Mrs. Julian Dimock
of Corinth was in progress. The speech
making and a baseball game made up the
afternoon's program, with the Barre
Citizens' band playing most refreshing
interludes whenever there was a suffi
cient pause. Speakers were: E. S. Brig
ham of St. Albans, state commissioner of
agriculture; James P. Taylor of Burling
ton, secretary of the Greater Vermont
association ; H. W. Collingwood of Xew
York, editor of the Rural Xew Yorker,
and John D. Willard of Greenfield, Mass.,
secretary of the Franklin County (Mass.)
Farm bureau. The baseball game, al-.
though meaaureablv a disappointment to
many of the fans in both connties, pro
vided lively entertainment after the
speaking, Waterbury defeating Brook-
field by the score of 13 to 2.
One section of the park was reserved
for parking automobiles and if anyone
had any doubt as to whether the farmer
is doing his best to keep abreast of the
times, his skepticism would have been
dissipated forthwith by glancing at the
array of motor vehicles. It formed a sig
nificant commentary on the prosperity of
agriculturists in this section of Vermont.
Encompassed as they are by high grain
prices and the soaring costs of "hired
help," Washington and Orange county
farmers managed to have a representa
tion of 107 cars on the grounds.
A circular canvas of generous girth
occupied a place in the middle of the
park and there tiers of seats were ar
ranged for those who listened to the
speechmaking. Elsewhere a tent had'
been erected for the use of the caterers
nd as hadquarters for the two county
dvisers, F. H. Abbott of Barre and E. H.
Loveland of Randolph. The larger tent
was furnished by the Montpelier Board1
of Trade and W. F. Shepard generously
onated the use of the smaller tent. The
Barre Board of Trade furnished the
grounds, provided band music and saw
o it that there was an atmnoance ot re
freshments on the grounds. Autoists
nd those who came m teams were as
sisted bv a detail of uniformed police
ssigned to duty at the fark by the city
council. There were several exhibits of
farming implements and a nice showing -
of cattle and horses.
Members of the Barre and Montpelier
boards of trade were present to lend
their assistance whenever needed and-to
the energy of the Baire organization, it
may be mentioned in passing, was due
the" fact that ample seating accommoda
tions were provided for the picnickers.
The Vermont Tel. Tel. Co. sent their
nemen to the park and installed a tele-
lone instrument for the benefit ot trie
sitors. Other acts of kindness and un
solicited assistance made it plain that
everyone waa out to make the first joinh
outing the whopping success that it was.
Stock Judging.
Interest in the morning's doings cen
tered around the stock judging contest.
There were many participants in the two
classes, one for boys under IS years and
the other for men. ' A. T. Smith 4 Son of
Trow hill. Barre Town, exhibited four
Holstein cows and three Guernseys.
Dodge brothers of Berlin had a Guernsey
cow on the grounds and a Holstein bull
was shown by F. B. Whitney of Put
namsville. There were six entries in the clasa for
boys and positions were awarded a fol
lows: Guernsey, Harold Taft. of Xorth
Randolph lt. Glenn Xewell of East
Brookfield 2d; Holstein. Glenn Xewell
1st. Harold Tocr of East Brookfield 2d,
A. Stone of Williamstown 3d.
Thirty-four men participated in the
other class and the awards were an
nounced as follows: Guernsey. Lawrence
C. Howd of Montpelier 1st. Guy Ray
mond of Eat Montpelier 2d, Frank H.
Xorthrop of Barre 3d; Holstein, J. A.
Tartridge of Washington 1st. Guy Ray
mond 2d. Lawrence Howd 3. Four head
of Holstein and four head of Guernser
II n.-.-n Tiies.'r Itrrnnr-n at ! Picnic at tleflonia MfK
k Kev B G. Licskv of t-hc Hed- .invites the public and the other granges '.Ioin l-artl. JNiniel ImM. HarrT iji'M. to the jmtgtrg contests ne coninoute.1
fhi !etHrt.i;t rhuTvh. will officiate ani laiw and nort will he m orJer. 1 . it hanesi i-it. iean li'M
nd Aith'ir r.iflv talusble hints. Decisions wer
interment will I tj- e id t;i family cotring ry electric cars anouu get on'i-aai. imermeni was iraae in ine iami-'
let ia Eim wood cemetery. at Marvin farm. ly lit at ta I la infield Center cfimUrj.
(Continued on third fi.) ,
