REAL ESTATE FOR SALE, TO
LET, EXCHANGE OR WANTED
Situations, Help Wanted and Other
Wants, See Section Seven
ALL SGRTS OF ADS FOR
ALL SORTS OF PEOPLE
See Times-Dispatch Want Pages for \
Service of Unequalled Value
66th YEAR
vol.i .mi: 00
M'MIIKH N
RUSSIANS RESUME
FIERCE ATTACKS!
j
Make Breaches in Austrian Lines i
at Some Points, but Later
Are Driven Out.
HAND-TO-HAND FIGHTING
Six Persons Killed and Ten
Wounded in Recent Bom
bardment of Nancy.
In Galicla and Bessarabia the Rus-1
slans have resumed their fierce attacks
on the Austrian lines sitid made I
breaches in them at some points, l>nt. ,
were subsequently driven out. accord
ing to the Austrian official report. At ;
one point the Russians were only
ejected after hand-to-hand fluhtinn. In
which the reserves had to be brought
up. the statement reveals.
The fart that German fifteen-inch
sh'-lls have begun dropping In Nancy,
just back of tho French lines, has
caused stories of destmctlon and panic
to bo circulated In Paris sr.:! elsewhere.
From the statement issued by th* pre
fect of the department in which Nancy
Is situated, to discredit these rumors,
It appears that there have been casual
ties in the city, six persons being
killed and ten wounded, and that the
population Is leaving, but it Is de
clared that no fires have been started
by tho shells and that there was no
panic.
Th? Hartmanns-Wellerkopf sector
appears to have been the only point on
the western front where there has been
any Infantry activity. The Germans
< lalm to have taken a portion of a
trench south of the summit.
There Is little military activity in
the Balkans, except at ho trie points' in
Montenegro, where the Austrian* and
Montenegrins an- still clashing.
There also arc few political develop
ments in connection with the Balkan
situation, probably the most Interest
ing one being the report of the arrival
at Toulon, France, on a warship of the
consuls of Germany, Austria, Turkey
and Bulgaria, recently arrested at Sa
lonlkl. It has recently been reported
that these consuls were to be released.
The Toulon advices state that they are
'held there to await disposition of the
a uthorl ties.
1.1: it maxs in hi, sur.i.i.v
ON C1TV IIP NANCY
PARIS, January S.?Six persons have
been killed and ten others wounded at
Nancy during tho past three days In
the bombardment of tho city by Ger
tn&n Vlfteen-lnch guns, it appears ftorn
advices received here.
It is announced that safe conducts
have been issued to 30,000 persons to
leave' the city. A special train with
some of these residents on board ar
rived In Paris yesterday. Others from
Nancy have gone to Dijon and clse
\\ here.
These statements regarding Condi
tions in Nancy, as the result of the
fact that the German shells had begun
to hit in the town, were contained in
?; proclamation Issued by Prefect Mlr
man. of the Department of Meurthe-et
Moselle, in which Nancy is situated, to
discredit stories of destruction and panic
In Nancy that have been circulating in
I'aria and elsewhere. Tho proclama
tion, which Is entitled "Shame to
Sowers of Panic," Kives the casualties
as stated and adds that no (ires have
I'een caused by the bombardment. The
prefect savs he believes tliat the exag
gerated rumors wero started by per
sons living remote from Nancy, because
any one near theie would know they
were untrue.
i tvvsrr.s iiki.d to await
IIISPOSITIOX OK AITIIOIllTIKS
PARIS, January S.?The consuls of
Germany, Austria. Turkey and Bul
garia at Saloniki. who recently were
arreste.l there, arrived to-day at Tou
lon on board a man-of-war, according
to a Ilavas dispatch from that sea
port. They are held to await the dis
position of the authorities, tho dis
patch adds.
CAPTl'HIO tlP I"/.AltTOItVSI\
IS I.ATKST ACIIIKVK.MfO.VT
I,ON* DON', January S.?The Russian
offensive still occupies the most im
portant place in the news of the war
with the capture of Ozartorysk. as tho
latest achievement reported. The Rus
sians claim full possession of the vil
lage. but tho Austrian^ deny they have
advanced any farther than the ceme
t ery.
The Austrians apparently are fight
ing desperately In this region In the
effort to hold their positions as a
screen for Kovel, and a link between
? he Austro-Oerman armies in Galicla
and those further north in tho neigh
borhood of Plnsk, which is threatened
Willi envelopment as a result of the
Russian advance.
The news regarding Czartorysk must
be taken with reserve. A German re
port dated later than that of tho Rus
sians claims that all the lost ground
has been retaken. The town may be
come a second Czernowltz, which ap
parently Is untenable by either side.
On the British front in the west tho
Germans havo attacked near the iLilin
Armentleres rallrond. but, according to
official British advices, have been re- i
pulsed. Both the British and French
heavy artillery were busily engaged
yesterday. v
Constantinople reports the allies havo
again bombarded tho narrows from
land arid sea.
tlSntlAX'S BEATEN HACK
WITH i:\OItMOl S IjOSSKS
Tho battlo continues botween tho
Russians and Austro-German forces In
Galicla and Bukowlnn. The Russians
claim further gains, nnd tho Austrians
claim to be holding their ground. The
.Austrian* havo mado determined coun
terattacks along the middle Strlpa and
northeast of tho town of Czornowltz,
but, according lo the Russian official
,:ommunicftt!on, they were beaten back
with enormous lossos, while tho Rus
" (Continued on Second Page?)
Retires as State Chairman j
J. TAYMMt Kl.l.VSO V.
ELLVSON N0TC1DI0IT[
FOB CHAIRMAN OF STATE
I.ioutonunt-f?'nvornor Says Mo Will
Not Stnnd for Kc-Klect ion as
Head of Parly.
>!!?; XT ion ri.oon \s srrn-issoR
Glass Suggested as Virginia's Repre
sentative in National Democratic
Committee?Party Leaders at Sea
Regarding Selection of Delegation.
j Kleutenant-Oovernor .1 Taylor Elly
i foil last night authorized the state
! rri'Tit that he was not and would rmt be
a candidate for r?'-e.lert|on as chairman
of the State Democrat Committee.
Mr. Kllyson has held tlio position for
the past iwcnty years, havinu suc
ceeded the late Cnited .States Senator
John S. Harbour. During tlio whole
period the Democratic party has been
m complete control of Stato affairs.
I*P to this time there Is no an
nounced candidate in the fleld for the
chairmanship. Mr. Kllyson is a candi
date for Coventor of Virginia in the
Democratic State primary of next year,
and lie said that, under the cjreum
atamoH, he considered it proper to let
borne one elan take direction of the
party machinery.? In the last state
election, when Mr. Kllyson was a can
ditlate for I.ieutenant-Governor, lie
stepped aside temporarily, puflntr the
i chairmanship for the t in.- in the hands
| of the late State Senator Kdward
i Kchols, of Staunton.
Id.ASS Is si.ATKli
l ull V\TIO.\AI, ( (IMMI'ITKH
t Arr.ong politicians the name moHt fre
quently mentioned yesterday as Statu
chairman In sue ession to Mr. Kliyson
was that of Congressman Henry Deia
ware Flood, of the Tenth Virginia Dis
trict. Itor*-r A. James, of Danville, for
many years a member of the State com
mittee. u .is also mentioned. For the
position of national Democratic com
mitteeman from Virginia, a position
which has been held by Mr. Kliyson for
many years, Congressman Carter c'lia^s,
| of Lynchburg, has been selected. It
i was learned.
Party authorities are frankly some
i what at sea its to the methods to 1 e
! followed In selecting the Virginia d-Me
' nation in tlio coming National Demo
cratic Convention, in June, and the
National Committeeman from Vir
ginia.
The Baltimore convention, which
nominated Mr. Wilson for the presi
dency. declared for the election of r.a
i t.onal committeemen and delegates to
tho national convention in primaries
rather than by State conventions. So
far, the Virginia party authorl*ie.i
'have taken no steps to carry out this
| party law. The national convention
| meets ir. June, and unless special ley.
islation can be secured providing for
| tho holding of a general Democrat. ?
primary In April on tho day cities and
towns select their candidates for may
or and council, it does not appear that
the mandate of the Baltimore conven
tion can bo carried out
KliLVSO.V is Al?VO<\\TI-:
OK SI'KCIAI. I.K<; IM.ATIO.Y
A Stato convention, it was stited,
will be necessary In any event, and
such a meeting will probably be call
ed. the delegates to be named In obi
fashioned mass-meet ings after the
| fashion that prevailed before the prl
j mary system was introduced. Wheth
er the Democratic National Convention
| would sent a delegation chosen by such
a coiventlon remains to be seen.
Mr. Kliyson, In a recent Interview,
advocntcd special legislation which
will provide for a .spring primary
carrying out the party plan. It i<
possible that the State Committee may
be called shortly to consider the fines
tlon of calling n spring convention and
to formulate any special legislation
which the party will ask at tho hands
of the Ceneral Assembly, which meets
this week*.
ADA REHAN. ACTRESS. DEAD
She Hnd Horn III for Severn! Months,
nun K.nlered Vow York Uospltnl
I'.tghf Dnyn Ago.
NKW YORK. January S.?Ada Rehan,
the actress, died In Roosevelt Hospital
here to-day, after an operation for
an nrtorial affection. Sho had been 111
for several months, and entered tho
hospital eight days ago.
Miss Rehan, whose real name was
Adrt. Crehan, was born in Limerick,
Ireland, April 22, 18fi0, ami as a child
came to New York. Her first appear
ance on the stage was at the age of
fourteon. She is perhaps best remem
bered ns having played Ophelia In
"Hrimlet" with Edwin Booth. Her lost
public, appearanco was In 1006.
Senior Virginia Senator Indorses
Another Lawyer for Su
preme Bench.
: HIS NAME NOT YET REVEALED
I ... ... |
? Glass Only One of State Delega
tion Asked to Support Third
District Congressman.
i
f Special to The Times-Mlspatch ]
WASHINGTON. .January v_|t de
I veloped to-day that Virginia will not
; solidly support Representative A .1.
Montague. of that State, for flip vacancy
011 the L'nlted States Supreme Court
; ?
j bench.
Sonator Thomas S. .Martin, dean of
the \ Irglnla dol^tjntlon, announced
thnt his State would have a secondj
candidate for this position, and It in'
assumed that most of his friends In
j tho State delegation will join him in
urging the appointment <>f this candi
date.
Senator Martin preferred not to dis-l
cuss the name, of the s?cor.d Virginian,
to he put forward until he has con-|
i ferred further with his friend, hut as
soon as practicable ho win trive out
j the name. |
1 maiitix c.ivks i\i)(>hm;mi:\t
to somi: o'uii;it < avdiiiati:
i "I have not indorsed former Cover
; nor .Montamie." said Senator Martin to
I he Tlmes-I)lspatch correspondent lo
j night. 'f shall not indorse him. T
j Khali give my Indorsement to another
! man from m- State, whose t.ame I will
i pive out when I h tve heard from him
further. Ho is a very distinguished
! lawyer, and would make a splendid
; Judge."
i This announcement by Senator Mar
: tin comes on the hor-is of the publico -
j Hon In The Times-Dispatch of the fact
(that a delegation of Virginians, headed
j by Coventor llenry C. Stuart, would ?all
| up?.n the President some time next v. eek
'to urge the consideration of Mr. Mon'.a
! gue for the Supreme Court vacancy,
j The disclosure that the Virginians ate
j not a unit behind their former < lover
! nor will be i>f wide-spread Interest in
j the State
The circumstance was also developed
J to-day that Mr. Montague's friends had
j not approached other members of the
| State delegation i:i his behalf, except
Representative Carter Class. The Vir
ginia. Congressmen, wlic-n asked if the-,
would add their indorsement to that
' t<-? be given by Governor Stuart and
the members of his party, replied that
they had not been asked to join in the
! Montague movement.
Joxks I'i.i:ih;i:s siti'okt
to ( u.\<;iti:ss>i\\ moviac.i i;
Representative Jones. though not ap
proached. said tliat he would cheer
j fully indorse Governor Montague, and
that the \ Irglnlan would be an orna
j ment to the highest court.
It was stated at the White House
that tne appointment for tho Virginians
[to call upon the 1'resident in behalf
i of Mr. Montague had not been fix -d.
I but would be announced early i'i the
i week. Governor Stuart, in his tele
gram. stated that he would be unable
:o come to Washington on Wednesday
j or Thursday. Tuesdays and Fridays
'are regular Cabinet days, and appoint,
j merits for callers are not made on
[these days, mi Monday the calendar
? Is pretty well tilled up.
j I h?*re are a number of eminent law
| .vers in Virginia <iualilie,i to sit on the
Supreme Court bench, and much Inter
est Is felt in the man whom Senator
I Martin and his associates have decided
to support for the position.
4KKM.V STIKt.VliIjV IM)l)l(SKI)
i'?n m iMtioMi: cot it r skat
HRISTOI.. .lanuary S.?Judge
Joseph I.. Kelly, ol' Bristol. now a mem
ber of the Virginia Supreme Court, was
! to-day strong!*- indorsed by the r.ristol
bar to succeed the late Justice l.amar
i as a member ..f i Ho Cuited States Sit -
{ pretne Court. Judge Kelly, ft i.s sa|(1
I here, will be made Virginia's candi
date. He is forty-eight years old. and
his record as a lawyer and Jurist en
title hint to the highest consideration.
' A special committee of Bristol law
I j ^i s w ns to-day to present
Judge Kelly's name, and this committee
will Invite delegations from all coun
ties in the State to join it in urging
the appointment of Judge Kelly. Those
i who know Judge Kelly, as he is known
here, are confident that he would tnako
. an enviable record in the high position
! for which he has been suggested.
?
PROBE GASOLINE ADVANCE
j JVdenil Trade Coin in 1**1 on
Investigation, 1'ollimlng l.nrge
Number ?r t'oiuplalntn.
\V ASl 11 X< ;TO.V. January ?.?The l-'e.i
j era I Trade Commissiott announced dell
I nitel.v to-day that it would begin
? shortly an invextlgation into the cost
i of relinitig and marketing giisoliite,
I with a view to determining if recent
j price advances were unreasonable.
Numerous complaints have been for
I warded to the commission by the l)?i
| partment of Justice, along with all
(other data bearing on the proposed
investigation.
1 he in\estIgation, it was announced,
will .cover corfts of production and
handling front crude oil to retail
prices of gasoline, upon whose rapid
advance recently are based most of the
complaints. The commission will also
seek to determine if thero has been
violation of the Clayton act prohibit
ing price discrimination. Public hear
ings probably will be held.
Commissioner Harris and a corps of
assistants have nearly concluded an
investigation of complaints of price
discrimination In gasoline In the South
begun last summer.
ALLIES FOR PLEDGE
President Urged to Demand As
surances as to Unarmed Ships
With Americans on Board.
DECISION NOT YET REACHED
Germany, in Note, Accepts Con
tentions of United States
in Frye Case.
\V ASl 11 X< !T< ?N". .latum y ?> -Kncour-'
ai?cd by t In* conciliatory attitude
shown by Germany and Austria in rc-'
cMit diplomatic exchanges with "he
t'fiit'd States. officials are considering
request i 1 alt a definite and comprehensive
statement pledging. riot only 'I'-inrmy,
lull all of her allies, l" respect In tin*
conduct of their sea warfare the guar
antees as to the safety of American,
life for which this government has
contended throughout the entire sub
marine controversy.
Presbb nt Wilson is being urged by
pome of hts close advisers to ask the'
Germanic allies for definite assurances;
that no unarmed ships with Americans;
aboard shall he destroyed by any of'
them until the passengers have reached;
a place of safety. The President isl
said to look with some favor upon su-h!
a proposal, but has reached no de
cision. In any case, he probably will]
take no steps in that direction until]
details of pending negotiation* with]
these countries have been cleared us>.
OlTIflALS ARK CltATIKIKD
OYKIt ,\OTi: IN Kit VK (ASK
Officials are particularly gratified
ovt Germany's latest note on the de
struction of the American ship William
I*. I':ye, made public to-day, because of
It1-- acceptance of the principle that the
mere placing of noncombatants i:i life
boats befor-s a prize is destroyed is not
a sufficient guarantee of safety.
This concession, coupled with the
off.-r ?.f Germany to pay indemnitv for
the l.tisltanla victims and Ambassador
j von I'.ernstorff's assurances regarding
11 i? ? conduct of German submarines itt
the Mediterranean, lias contributed
greatly to the feeling 11:rit a satisfac
tory solution of the entire problem
might be near at hand. This hope is
strengthened t>y Austria's deference In
11>e second Ancona reply and the as
surance of Karon Xwiedlnek, the Aus
trian charge here, that if lt developed
that an Austrian submarine sank the
liner Persia, he had no doubt personally
! that full satisfaction woubl be Riven.
N'o further details regarding the
, Persia Incident reached the State De
partment to-day. but there has been
an apparent lessening of tension, as the
1 days have gone by without any official
confirmation that it was a torpedo, nnd
n<?t a mine, that sank the ship.
XOTK M\I>K IM'IIMC
IIV STATK nKI'AHTMIiXT
Germany's note accepting the Ameri
can contentions that the mere placing
of noncombatants in lifeboats when a
prize is to be destroyed is not under
: all conditions to lie considered nssur
I ing them a place of safety was made
public to-day by the State Department.
The note is the latest coinmunica
! tion over the sinking of the American
sailing ship William P. Krye and, he
sides making the important concession
regarding the question of small boats,
takes up the question of an Indemnity
for the sunken ship and for arbitrati'ig
t he disputed provisions of the Prus
sian-American treaty.
The most important part of the text
relating to the sinking of ships carry
? ing contraband and the safety of non
? combatants follows:
"I'ntil the decision of the permanent
court of arbitration. the German na\al
forces will sink only such American
! vessels as are loaded with absolute con
traband. when the preconditions pro
vided by the Declaration of hondott
are present. In this the German gov
' eminent quite shares the view of the
American government that all possible
I cure must he taken for the security of
1 the crew and passengers of :i vessel to
be sunk. Consequently, the persons
I found on board of a vessel may not be
ordered into her lifeboats except when
'the general conditions, that i? to say.
the weather, the condition of the sea.
and the neighborhood of the coasts af
| ford absolute certainty that the boats
will reach the nearest port. For the
[rest, the German government begs to
| point out that in cases where German
i naval forces have sunk neutral vessels
for carrying contraband, no loss of
j life has yet occurred."
? tilti:\i-: wot i.i) in-'. K.vi'osr.n
Tt> IIA.VtiKIt OK (MI'TI IIK
i Germany declined, however, to have j
; the commissioners who will settle the
' Krye damages meet in Washington, be
cause it is pointed out that the German i
expert, f>r. Greve. of Crcnien. director j
of the North German Lloyd, would lie
exposed to danger of capture during:
a voyage to America "in consequence
of the conduct of maritime war by Kng- ;
| land contrary to international low."
It is suggested that the German and |
American experts might get in touch!
by correspondence. Germany also de
clines to assent tit this time to the 1
nomination of an umpire, in the ah- i
sence of a determination of whether
the experts would settle damages or j
principles. Germany refuses to have '
an umpire consider the question of
principle. In case the United States j
insists that the experflS meet in Wash- i
ton. and that an umpire be named at i
once. Germany suggests that the
damages bo arranged by diplomatic
negotiation.
For the arbitration of the Prussian
American treaty, Germany, in the note,
proposes a special court of tlvo from
the permanent court nt The Hague, of
which each country shall choose two
and the four shall choose the fifth, to
meet at Tho Hague on June 1.1. The
special court would decide whether,
under tho Prussian-American treaty,
"tho belligerent contracting party Is
prevented from sinking merchant ves
sels of the neutral contracting party
for carrying contraband when such
sinking is permissible according to
fhe general principles of international
law."
/
Great British Fleet
Always Keeps Watch
on North Sea Coast
Impressive of Concen
trated Power and Alert
Readiness at One of
Naval Bases.
I.ONDON. January s.?Fndei ?-s on of
officers assigned by the admiralty, a
correspondent. of the Assooiated I r* ?s
and a party of foreign journalists were
given the first opportunity recently to
visit one <-f the great naval bases on
tlie const where cruiseis. destroyers and
submarines are assembled for their
watch over the North Sen, and from
which point big oceangoing submarines
are sent on forages to the Baltic and
tho Dardanelles.
It was an Impressive sisht of eon- ,
ecntratoil power and alert readiness.'
with long lines of battle - seared j
cruisers stretching seaward nnd headed
by the famous Arethusa. hack of them
a vast flotilla of destroyers, then a
countless number of submarines of the
latest D and 1" type, which hav? re
cently performed such brilliant work
from tho Dardanelles to the Bosporus
and throughout the Baltic.
The. day was typical of the rigors
the British fleet Is now experiencing,
in tlie North Sea, with rain peltinif the
sailors in oilskins, a north wind cut
ting the sea Into roam and seagulls j
i everywhere. The little ilshing village |
0:1 the coast had been transformed ny j
the war Into a vast naval rendezvous.!
I with storehouses stretching a haif-.
mile. prepared to re-equlp an armada!
and send it back to sea within two',
hours of its arrival.
.?MOTIlKIt" ships nr. mm
i'iik i niii i iM. riin,mu:\.
Here also were the "mother" ships.'
ranj?ed in lonu lines alone the quay,
ready to receive back their ficrhtiug i
children each time they came front a,
j raid or ti battle.
The huge establishment was vihrat
ling with energy, and In th* harbor!
mine-sweepers were t'ontlnu hack ft run :
their work, hydroaeroplanes were nia
I rteuverlng from the deck of their craft,.
land black smoke from the fu\nels of j
the cruisers and destroyers t<? 1 *1 of their
? readiness to dash out to sea after anl
enctny craft.
The Arethusa and the light cruiser
squadron had Just returned from scout
in? along the German coast in search
of a Gorman fleet which was saiil to
have ventured out from the Kid (-anal.
Nothing had been seen of the German
ships, and the British olllcers?tit",
tame who had now received their stars
In the famous fight under Vice-Admiral ;
I Sir David Beattv?were derisive at the
idea that the Germans wouhl venture ?
! forth.
1 rnti:i> di-:a!?i.v missii.k
wmi it stiit'l'K iii.i i:? iii ii1
One of these olllcers was iti com-:
matid of tlie torpedo tubes when they i
til-id the deadly missiles which struck
ilit1 German cruiser Bluechcr and sent,
her reeling to the bottom in the great j
tight of last .lauuary. lie pointe.l ..utj
these self-saine tiihcs and told how,
they had worked.
I "First we let that one,"' he said,
"and then this one It wa? this one. I
that hit tho Bluecher amidships. ShO|
was lying olY there about l,f>0? yards.'
The thing that impressed me after we.
hit her was the deathly stillness. It
was terribly still until the great. big,
ship threw tip her l?ow, turned clean
over nnd sank.
1 "Yes. this is the one that did it," and
he patted the death-dealing engine af-'
fectionately, as If it were his child,
as. In truth, it has been since he sank
the Bluecher. Scars of battle were all
over the ship, which the officers pointed !
out with the pride llt.it a I leidelherc
student displays when he exhibits hls|
wounds. A deck galley amidships had
been entirely shot aw.iy. a tnelnr.M?
shell having exploded in it. This has
been rebuilt. One dent in the side armor
was pointed out. as big as a washbowl
The upper works were literally pep
percd with shrapnel, but the scars were
now neatly bandaged with two-inch!
riveted steel plates, so that the sauc\
Arethusa was again as good a.-? < V'T.
I'AII TV (iOKS A HO A It I)
iim: of iim; nr.sTito\i-:n*
The party now went aboard tho latest
type of big destroyers, which ar* here
ranged in great battalions, with steam J
up. They are very fast, some of them
making thirty-seven or thirty-eight
knots, and even touching forty-two
knots on a measured mile, while all of
them do thirty-five kinds on regular
service.
l.yiiig outside of tliein were tlie sub
marines of tho D and F. type, the lat
ter 'Aeing seagoing ciaft of great radius,
which are now making distant under
sea, voyages to III? Baltic and the Dar-j
dandles. The smaller D boats have
the trim outlines of an eight-oared
racing shell, lint the big new ocean j
rangers are t?.s ugly as some subma
rine monster, with a steel flu i tinning ^
fore and aft and a camel's hump nmld
slilp for a deck. One of the com
manders pointed out their tine quill
11 es.
"They can stay under water seventy
two hours." lie said, "yes, throe days,
without any inconvenience to the cuew
from lack of air. The D boats are
good for runs of twenty-four hours
tinder water."
*>nrN Fell for Steamer'* Safety.
SAVANNAH, OA., January S.? Un
easiness was expressed among marine
men here to-night over tho British
freight steamer Nagarlutan. ten days
overdue from l.ondon, from whence she
Hn|led on December 10. The vessel,
which Is of 4.327 tons, carried no wire
less, It was said hero.
Vigorous Protest
to Great Britain
\V A SII I \ <;TO\. .1 ii iiiiii r > x.?'I hr
I IlltCll SIlllfN IlllS Mr II ( III XlllllMS
Ninlor I'li^r tit l.oiiiloo for iircsi'iitn
tion (ii (lie llrillsli l-'oreign (lllli'i* n
ini(i* vlu nrousl.v protest Inu uuainsl
flit- llrillsli ii it I litirl (Irs Interfering
with inn! cenmirinu mulls from the
1'nitcil Stnteft to neutral Ku rnpeitn
count riot*.
The note Is understood to have
n I mill > lifpn ilrllvrml to (hi- llrltlsli
Foreign ((filer, lint I(m trvt litis not
lirrn given out by tin- Mn(e Drpurt
iii rut.
X uuKTitiiH complaints linvr been
roiTlvpil from American business
men iiimI others lliut tlielr mulls
destined (o points In neutral Ku
ropenn countries hnvr Iteen opeueil
by (lie llrltlsli ernnori. Stenmslilps
carrjIiiK neutral mnll.s to nail from
the I'nKcil Slates have been lielil up
by llrltlsli 'warships anil taken (o
llrltlsli ports, tv he re practlcnll.T nil
mails have been removed liv (ho
llrltlsli authorities. 'I'he steamship*
then have lieen alloTveil to proceed
ami (lie mnll.s detnlneil and exnnitned
by the llrltlsli censors. After com
plete rxii initiation, the malls have
been sent forward to their destina
tion. 'I'll Is has resulted la much
dclny, find In somr Instunecn con
liscntion of correspondence.
FORD pact PILGRIMS
ARRIVE IT IRE HAGUE
They Plan to Be^in Immediately
Work tif Spreading Peace
Propaganda.
THAVKIj Tllliorc.ll (JKK.M.WV
Trip From ( 'opetiliagen Killed With
Impressive Suggestions of War.
Progress Is Watched by Silent
Crowds?One Lively Incident.
Till-: UArjt i:. January S (via Lon
don).?Five weeks after its departure
from New York, the Kord pence expedi
tion readied The 11 affile to-day. The
members of the party plan to l>ei;in
immediately the work of spreading the
peace propaganda.
The trip from Copenhagen in a spr*
vial train through Oermuny. touching
ai l.ubcek, Hamburg and Itrcmcu, was
filled with impressive suggestions of
war. At the important stations, the
American peace advocate passed
Irainloads of soldiers hound for the
front ami Red Cross nurses in hospital
conches.
The progress of the expedition
through Oermany was watched by
silent crowds, except at one place,
where a Herman lieutenant lifted Ills
helmet, anil wished success to the pro
ject. The entire trip over lierniaii ter
ritory was made after dark.
Arriving at the Cierman port of
Warnenuiende in a ferry-boat from
Denmark, the Americans, with the Nor
wegian. Swedish and Danish deli-pates,
were met by a special train, provided
by special permission of the military
authorities, and which stood on the
dock surrounded by sold! -i s The
peace advocates stood on the platform
in the dusk in a drix/.ltng rain. As
their names were culled, one i?y otic,
they were permitted to go aboard the
train. Then the i oi.ches were locked
and the. trip across Northwestern Her
inany sta i ted
TI?.\ v1:1.1:11s i'i:it Mi r ri:i? -ro
I.OOIv (li T 0|.' w i \ now s
After a while the military guards
on the train relaxed the rules ami
permitted the travelers to look out of
tbe windows. In the brilliantly lighted
stations at l.ubeck, Hamburg and
isrenieii, the pilgrims caught glimpses
of lied ('loss nurses on the platforms,
soldiers leaning out of the windows
of incoming and outgoing trains, and
the familiar gray-coated Herman of
ficers pacing back and forth. I're
<iuently a crowd of civilians, anticipat
ing the parsing of the expedition, hur
ried for a closer inspection of the train;
Kvidence of the war was not missing
from the train itself. Only one dining
car was provided for the L'rtft travelers.
The railroad authorities xplalncd that
all the dining cars were being used to
t ransport wounded.
After leaving llanii.nr>:, and while
approaching the western fighting zone,
the train was kept at it^ highest speed,
iitul the usual stops at the smaller sta
tions were omitted. The crowds at
some of these stations indicated that
the people along llie railroad had been
informed of the coming of the expedi
tion. Vet the spectators everywhere
viewed the train silently.
? ?no enlivened incident, however, oc
curred at l.teuthclm, near this lloll ?nd
frontier. There, near the end of the
trip through Oermany, all the members
of the expedition were to have been
Kcarched, but the authorities, through
the lieutenant in charge of the train,
nimounced that the scan him; had b -en
set aside.
cirrcAtio i'kk.k iikii thinks
ti i :it M V N A I -I'll(lit tTir.s
The travelers crowded into the little
station restaurant at 3 o'clock in (lie
morning and began cheering. The f'ev.1
Jenkin l.loyd Jones, of Chicago, there
upon mounted a chair and thanked the
Herman authorities, lie explained the1
purpose of the peace expedition.
Cries came Tor a speech from the
Herman lieutenant, lie finally mounted
the cluilr, lifted his helmet and sftld:
"1 hope that your project will meet I
with success."
i
STRIKERS PLAN
Rumors Result in Renowwi
Vigilance on Part of
Militia.
MEN OF NATIONAL GUARD
PATROL STREETS OF CiTY
Quiet Prevails Throughout Day,
After Night of Rioting
and Bloodshed. '
MONK TltOOI'S IV RFSKUVH
One I.lfe I.ost and Property l)nmng?J
of $1..->00.000 He-tilt Kroiu
Friilny Viulit's flush.
:
' VOT'N'iJSTnwN, o., January ' ?Quiet
prevailed throughout the day. with
j members of the Ohio National Httaril
; patrolling the prfncipnl streets of Kast
VounRstown. wlicro Inst night drlnk
, crazed mobs ran riot, looting and burn
| lug property and causing the loss oC
one life and llnancial loss amounting
to Sl.r.00.000. but rumor? of fresh (lcm
ons|ratlons to-night resulted In re
newed vigilance ?>n tlio part of tlia
militia.
Meetings of strikers were held In
Hie hills back of the I own this after
noon, at which plans of action wero
said to have been discussed. It was
also learned that employees of plants
in the Mahoning Vainly now on striko
will hold :i demonstration hero to
morrow. According t o t i 1 ?? plans, tho
men will assemble on the outskirts of
Kast Youngstown and march past tho
scene (if last night's rioting. and on to
a bin hnlt here, whore speakers will
address the crowd.
.Militia ollicers refused to indlcato
what attitude the militia would tako
in the matter. They admitted, how
ever, that the Fourth Regiment, com
posed of nearly l,'M>o men, was being
held in reserve at Ilerlin Center, llf
teen miles west of here, for any pos
sible emergency.
i:\ i iiti: iii:r;mi-:.vr i\ ukskiivic
i.n row \ i'ii'"i i:i:\ .wvav
[ Although troops began arriving' hero
about a o'clock this morning;, none was
? taken to Mast Vouiigslown for patrol
duty until nearly noon, when Mrj.iop
W. 11. Cunningham, of that place, re
I quested that militiamen replace p.olleo
! olllcers there, in order to permit tho
j men to get :i much-needed rest. Tho
1 remainder of the troops stayed on tho
trains, which were hacked into tho
yards of the Youngstown Sheet and
Tube Company, whero they will bo
I quartered while here.
Kfforts on the part of the .State to
effect a .settlement between the strikers
and the llcpublic Iron and Steel Com
pany and the Youngstown Sheet and
Tube Company will probably open hero
? to-morrow.
; Kor the first time in the history of
tire city, saloons were closed in Yoiings
lown on a Saturday, this action belngr
taken by the city authorities in an
effort to prevent further disorder.
Saloons in Kast Youngstown and
struthers were also chised, but those
in tllrarri, live mites away, were open,
land cars runninu to that town wero
crowded.
Imports from Strtjthers, whero
threats had been made to blow up tho
Yellow Creek Fiaia, which would re
sult in the flooding of the business seo
! tion of that, place, said that it was
quiet there. A detachment of soldiers
were sent to that point to patrol tha
; district all niglu.
km.uty-si-:\ i:v miiti:s ti:i?
A < Ii|.>| 1.1' OK HIOT
Klghty-scven persons have been ar
rested as ;i result of the riot, and every
available cell and barred room In the
jail was put in use.
Kir ntinued to smolder in tho
?ruins along Wilson Avnue to-night,
casting a lurid glow <l'?wn the ruined
street, Which had been roped off to
prevent the curious from approaching
too near to tottering walls. A light
ing system, completed Thursday night
at a cost of 510,000, was wrecked by
the inoh, and to-night the principal
street of Kast Youngstown was In
da rli he'ss.
Despite rumors that at least four
persons had been killed last night,
search by the police to-day showed that
only one man, tle.oge Oct, aged twenty -
three, who was shot as he was smash
ing a glass in a building, was killed.
I wenty-two persons are in hospitals
s!ifi"eiing from injuries, one of whom is
in a cnlic.11 condition. According to
the police, at least 100 other persons
suffered minor injuries, chiefly gun
shot wounds, but were able to be taken
to their homes.
\ I Tllnit ITII'.S 11 A in IIOMK.S
or Tllllt'l \ I'OitDK.MMtS
County authorities early to-night
rubied the homes of thirt\ foreigners
in Kast Youngstown >an.l confiscated
a wagon load of beer and other goods
alleged to have been taken during liio
riot in:; last night.
Kive hundred militiamen, tinder
Major \rthur S. I louts. of Cleveland,
with a mnehiJie u 11 n to-nlght patro 1 led
Wilson Avenue at d the adja- ent hills.
Thure was no semblance, however, of
nn> trouble, but t! 1 ?? militiamen re
fused to allow crowds to assemble.
Common I'leas Judge It.arriiim, of this
city. to-night communicated with
l .iited States I (.strict Attorney K.
'?(?wry Humes, of Pittsburgh, witli at
, vli'w of instituting deportation pro
ceedings against the foreigners who
participated in last night's rlofin?.
Kast Youngstown has a population of
I.".,000 persons, of which only 400 arts
I vol VI s.
tiiomii.k iii:(,i\s ?i(i.\
?D \ \ M1IKT U1AVB*
The trouble l>.?gan late yesterday,
when the day shift-at the plant of iho
YoungstoWn Sheet j.nd Tube Company
I quit for the day. Tiie plant 1m located
ori the Hats of tho .Mahoning Ulvor,
?1
