One Cent
One Cent
NO. 3372.
WEATHER: FAIR, WARMER.
WASHINGTON. D. C, STTNDAY, JANUARY 9, 1916.
( e\ y ? ??"\? '* ?????las??? e.4 rmiete -.?art.??
?'-?!> V J ?. ? 1 . ?, airela ti ?ti?? til RI ?? If (FIT?
STRIKERS AWED
BY BAYONETS IN
HAND OF TROOPS
Youngstown Quiet Aher Two
Days of Riot, Arson
and Pillage.
?-,
SOLDIERS GRIM IN DUTY
Ohio Militiamen Unhesitating
When Ordered to Enforce
Law and Order.
MILLION IS THE LOSS BY FIRE
Only One Dead. But More Than a
Hundred Hurt?Company Police
Replaced by Guardsmen.
Sievial tu Tlie Wassaiagtoo Herald.
East Youngstown, Ohio. Jan. 8.?
Driven back by an iron ring of bayo
nets In the hand? of Ohio guardsmen,
the steel mill strikers and their sym
pathisers tonight were in hiding In the
hilts surrounding the city, or In their
home? in the village.
Late this afternoon a mob formed
just outside the plant of the Toungs
town Sheet and Tube Company and
made an attempt to attack the mills.
Two companies of militia on guard
ther? fixed bayonet.? and forced the
crowd back through the burned section
of tbe town and dispersed it.
While the city is not under martial
law. Brig. Gen. Speaks. In charge of
the two reslments of guardsmen, virtu
ally is in charge of the town's affairs.
Saloons have been closed here and in
the rest of th? county. The guardsmen ;
have formed a ring of ateel around the j
wrecked section of the city and the |
sheet and tube company plant.
I Iliaca? Arn? tmr Detener.
Lite thl? afternsxm a report was cir
culated that rioters planned an attack
upon rJtruthers. which up to that time
trad not been guarded by the soldiers?. A
? nasa of ?? citisene was armed and
guarded the tirata* from this city to
be??v. A ifc???rge of ?tyBamio* ma* I
fixed under the brida? ready to destroy
the af?n, should era? h action be deemed
necessary to prevent the rl?jeers from
tntering the village.
Before the rioters, probably a? in num
ber, could ,-et to the bridge th? militia
charged upon them and they scattered
Struthers cittzer.s, however, maintained
their watch at the bridge, and a posse
will maintain a guard ail night.
Peace Ktassrta ?'all.
Effort? this afternoon to bring about
a settlement of the atrike of S.0CO men
at the Republic Iron & Steel Company
and the ?-heet ?V Tube plants failed. The
officials of tlie two companies declined
to d?ascuss the riots or the strike. State
Mediator Croxton arrive,! today and .will
try to bring about peace.
KITorts were begun to place the blame
for the riot early last evening, which
?tarted the mob on it? orgy of destruc
tion. A formal investigation by local
officials will result.
Estimates today placed the fire loss at
close to ?i.OO?.Oiai. Fifteen dry blocks
were swept, destroying practically the
entire business section of the village.
While the death list St one wa* not in
creased, it was learned that more than
100 were Injured. There are more than
twenty persons in the hospital, four of
whasAaawre expected to die.
Twe ? naninny police who figured in the
first riot lain nlghi have been tirsporarlly
relieved of duty. Guardsmen have re
placed them.
New Haven Jurors
Are in Deadlock
L nable After 36 Hours to
Find Verdict?Ten Said
to Favor Acquittal.
Stein?! to Tbe WsstnDSU*? Ueral.i.
New Tork. Jan. S.?Hope for a verdict
in the New Haven directors trial was
practically abandoned by both sides after
the Jury had been out thirty-six hours.
The indications were that the Jurors were
hopelessly deadlocked. The jury wss
locked up for the night at 11:30 o'clock.
D?ring the day various rumors were
current as to how the Jurors stood. The
most persistent was that ten were hold
ing out for acquittal of the eleven d?
fendants.
Didn't Know It Was Loaded.
Peekakill. N. y? ,,?,, t_A forgotten
blast charge in the Keystone Emery Mills
mine at Cortlandtown. five miles from
here, exploded unexpectedly today. It
killed Edward Tornekliw and fatally in
jured hi? son. Charles, who was setting
another blast. Edward Tompkina' head
was blown off. The son's skull was ttmmt
tured. his right arm and leg broken and
th? sight of on? eye destroyed.
Food Shortage Felt in Hungary.
Rorne, Jen. ?.-Count Ttsza. the Ilun
jarian premier speaking in the chamber
?rtated that the economic ?ituation in
Hungary la grave, according to new?
reaching haue, it ., iiec-eaaaa! ? lo reduce
tlie bread ?Jlow?me throughout the cm
Pal-?.
Germany Wearing Out,
French Leader Awerts
Paris, .Jan. 8.?The Matin
print? a statement made by
Gen. Joffre to M. Foug?res, di
rector of the French School at
Athens. Gen. Joffre said:
"We have every reason to be
jure of final victory. We are
beginning to get proofs which
show beyond all douDt that
German power is waning. The
signs are such as cannot be
mistaken by competent persons.
"These signs and proofs re
late more particularly to the
morale of the German army.
"The quality and material
condition of the troops permit
os to conclude that the Germans
are now entering upon a period
of exhaustion. Germany is be
ginning to wear out.
"That fact is certain, but, of
course, it does not mean that
she is already worn out, and we
still have a great effort to make.
But with the admirable en
durance of our army and the
perseverance of the whole
French nation and of our allies
we are sure of a final triumph."
BANQUET ENDS
BIG CONGRESS
Scientific Delegates Drink
Toast to New Day of
Pan-Ameri-canism.
GREATER AMITY IS KEYNOTE
OF SPEECHES AT FAREWELL
senor Catderon Lauds President Wil
son's Interpretation of Mon
roe Doctrine.
With a standing: toast, proposed by
Set-xetajy of State Robert Lansing, to
"The New Day of Pan-Americanism." the
se?-ond Pan-American Scientific Congress
?as brought to a close last night at
the New Willard Hotel as the delegate?
from the republics of the Ameri<*a? gath
ered in brotherly amity around the ban
quet board.
Expressions of esteem and of a more
friendly understanding of tb? principi??
at the various nations composing tlie
Western Hemisphere vota Um ttaeme of
the speakers addressing the delegate snd
the guests, and the words of Secretary
Df State "Lansing?"The mists of under
standing have disappeared through the
personal touch of a gathering of repre
sentatives, and in its stead reigns a
feeling of amity and brotherly affection,"
expressed the thoughts of the assembled
delegates.
It is with a feeling of regret, declared!
Secretary Lansing, that tbe close Inti
macy that has existed between the re-1
publics of America for the past two
weeks must come to an end. but it has j
been an honor to have the opportunity of \
pntertalningr our brothers' of the South,
for as a result wc know that they will
not forget us. n?jr we forget them. As
a result of this congress, he said, the
people of Latin America will return to
their country firm apostles of pan-Ameri
canism.
Snares Honors Wunieu.
Secretary Lansing introduced Ambassa
dor Suarez-Mujica. president of the con
gress, who acted as representative of the
I?atin Americans assembled. ^.
In opening his address. Ambassador
Suarez paid homage to the feminine ele
ment of the congress, which, he declared,
had proved both enlightening i-nd inter
esting to the members. , Thanks also are
due. he said, to the United States gov
ernment for having taken advantage of
the opportunity to Increase the currents!
of pan-Americanism and to impress the
international policy of America with a
stamp of closer and more frank confra
ternity.
In conclusion, the president of the con
gress proposed a standing toast "to the
President of the United States as the
highest symbol of the country which ao
fraternally haa been entertaining u?."
Prepared nesa Indorsed.
Approval of President Wilson's plan
for preparedness and the plan of Sec
retary Garrison for a continental army,
was contained in a speech of farewell
to the delegates by Judge Gray, chair
man of the United states delegation.
He said in part:
"The President of the United States
has placed his country upon the un
assailable ground of law and humanity,
and there we appeal to the peoples of
Latin America to stand unshakably In
his support. Let our motto be 'Hu
manity Over All,' and let us be ready
to defend the position we have taken
and prepare ourselves not for war, but
against war."
Se?or (laideron, minister of Bolivia,
congTiv-tu'ated the congress upon Its
a-blevementa, and said that the delegates
of the congress were gathered around
the festive board not to say good-bye.
but merely, au revoir. Democracy, he
said, is the supreme expression of justice
and right, and the fundamental basis for
peace and happiness. In conclusion.
Se?or Calder?n said:
'The Preski?nt, in his message to Con
gress, has masterfully expounded the ;
ineaiun? of that great doctrine, whk-h I
exclude? no man, threatens no ?untry.
but Is the Ijim.nation of that great uni
versal yearning for treedom. for peace.
Justice, and -amity.
The addre*?.*? of the mlnicfr to the
cuMi.vaii ?>.\ tAQX esvuL
FORD'S PARTY
AT THE HAGUE
German Officers Joke As Mis
sionaries Pass Through
Kaisers Domain.
DON'T TAKE ALL YOUR PEACE
HOME," SAYS JOLLY MAJOR
Curious Crowd at Hamburg Peers in
at Windows of Train?No Ameri
can to Greet Them.
Special tn Tbe Waatiinft? Hersld.
The Hague, Jan. K.? The Ford Peace
party arrived here today after passing
through Germany on the way from
Scandinavia.
It waa the first tourist train which
had passed across German soil since the
beginning of the war. Marvellous ef
fictency was shown by the railroad of
fieials. The train arrived two hour?
ahead of schedule time.
The efficiency demonstrated by the Ger
mans amazed the peace party. Every
courtesy was shown the Americans. Of
fleers were sociably Inclined and chatted
gaily with the tourists. Soldiers and
civilians also gathered around the train
at the few stop? to talk through the
window?.
A warm recaption wa? given the party
here. After the peace work and con
ferences which are scheduled for the
next few days, the party, or at least the
majority, will sail from Rotterdam on
January IS.
I.rraas oncers I heerf..!
Rome of the commenta of German of
ficer? who chatted with members of
the party are illuminating on the atti
tude of the Germans toward? the war.
"I wish you success." said a lieutenant
"Don't take all the peace back to 'Amer
ica. We want some over here," was a
major's comment.
There were no sign? of war to be ob
served in Germany, except that troops
were to be seen at every station and an
oc4*?sior?el Red Cross train paased. The
peace crusader? could aee the wounded
and the operating rooms on the trains
through the windows.
flrot Plenty to t:?i
Tlie food was good and plentiful. There
was little meat to be had, hut hn-nd anil
other ataples were plentiful.
Only four stops were made in Uermany.
A dining- ear. the flrst to be run sinee
the war started, was attache to the
train.
No representative of the American gov
ernment was on hand to protect the train
or meet the tou rista As a matter of
fact, none was necessary. None of the
persons aboard were permitted to step
from the cars while in Germany.
Hamburg, where the train stopped for a
time, displayed the most interest in the
party. A lanre crowd gathered to peer
in at the windows and exchange conver
sation.
CLOUDY AND WARMER
WEATHER FORECASTED
Mercury Drops to Fourteen Above,
^hich Is Season's Coldest?Skaters
Find No Ice on Basin.
Dropping tn 14 degrees above zero, the
mercury yesterday reached its lowest
mark of ? e winter. The day was IT
degrees colder than January S of last
year, when low was 31 and the high 47.
The maximum temperature yesterday
was 1*?.
"Fair and warmer today; tomorrow
partly cloudy and warmer," is the bu
reau's forecast. The prediction is made
for the District and adjacent Maryland
and Virginia.
While the prophecy of the weather seers
is discouraging for skaters, who could rind
no ice on the tidal basin yesterday, the
forecast is full of hope for charity work
er?.
Snow storms and cold weather almost
invariably increase the list of dependents.
As yet, however, last week's snow has
not increased the burden of the societies
to any appreciable extent.
VILLA ATTACKS TORRE?N.
??,??? Men Lnder Hernandes Maid lo
Ila??? Opened Battle.
Spretai to The Washington Herald.
El Paso. Jan. 8.?An attack on Torreoir
was begun today by 3,000 Viillstas under
Gen. Koaalio Hernandez. According to a
report received here by the collector of
customs, Gen. Hernandez yesterday cap
tured Parral, an American mining town
In Central Chihuahua, and then sent his
force? against Tori-eon.
Gen. Arguemedo. a former Federal
commander, is righting under Hernan
dez's soldiers. Gen. Villa is reported to
be on his way south to join his two gen
erals.
Gen. Obregon is sendinf?; 4.0?) men to
Chihuahua to meet the attacking forces.
TURKS ONLY EXERCISING.
??VVairh I | Whrn %T* Uck?u to
Kiitht," QvMrf f*a?ha'.<i VVe r*| n*.
Ber! in (via Bay vf tie by wireless ),
Jan. 8.?Lieut. Cien. Xekki Pasha, head
of a special Turkish embassy now ?n
Germany expresses confidence that now
that direct communication between
Turkey and the central power? hai?
been established, Turkey is only begin
ning to fight.
"Only now."' he said, "the immense
Turkish reserves will be utilized and
the war will be curried ou v\ itii our
w hole strenftth. '
"THE FIRST STEP IN PREPAREDNESS"
Dr. Sam?"A stitch in time ?are? nine."
BRYAN WARS
ON DEFENSE
Former Premier Heads Cam
paign Against Administra
tion Preparedness Bills.
LETTER LAUDING SHERWOOD'S
SPEECH MAKES STAND CLEAR
House Military Committee Throws
Cold Water on Garrison's Conti
nental Army Plan.
President Wilson's program of national
defense is in serious danger. The ad
ministration has practically abandoned
hope of putting through a bill to create
a continental army aa proposed by Lind
ley M. Garrison, Secretary of War.
Doubts are expressed by the President >
advisers that Congress will grant any
.substantial increase in the appropriation.?
for tlie regular army.
In the Senate criticism of the adminis
tration defense program is voiced on the
ground that It would prove too costly
at a time when government receipts are
declining, while ordinary expenditures j
are Increasing dally.
That former Secretary of State Bur,an \
is making an active campaign among
Democratic Senators and Representa
tives to defeat the administration de
fense buia is now known for a> certain
ty. This was disclosed yesterday by a
letter from Mr. Bryan to Representativo
Sherwood, of Ohio, who made a bitter
speech in the House early last week in
opposition to preparedness. Mr. Sher
wood took occasion in his address to re
buke President Wilstm for "changing
front" on the question of national de
fense. Mr. Bryan's letter to Mr. Sher
wood is in part as follows:
"Allow me to congratulate you upon
your speech. It hit the mark and was
an excellent opening of a campaign
which will, I hope, end in the defeat of
the plan to increase the' army and navy
appropriations."
Vueinat 4. arri mom Plan.
The undercurrent of opposition to the
continental army plan was brought out
in striking fashion yesterday at a hear
ing before the House Militai*?,? Committee,
in which Secretary of War Garrison took
part. Secretary Garrison appeared be
fore the committee to defend the pro
posal for a continental army. He soon
found that he was in the presence of a
hostile body
Tn the course of the hearing the Sec
retary ef War strongly urged that if
a way could be found to Federalize the
State militia so as to make tt immedi
ately responsive to the Federal govern
ment in time of war without the inter
polation of any other authority Con
gress should take such action without
delay
It became evident aa the hearing
proceeded that members of th-? com
mittee are opposed to the continental
army plan, preferring to enlarge and
strengthen the National Guard h.? a
part of the second line of PnlN?
Question*? put by the commit tee indi
cated that there was a fear in their
minds that thfL establishment of a con
tinental army would eventually result
in the elimination of the State mili
tia organizations. Secretary Garrison
made no such admission, but did de
clare that if the militia (s to be of real
service in time of war it must be
placed directly under Federal control.
'?Florid? ?ft W>it India? Limited.'*
All&ntic Coast ????, 2:0;. p. in. daily
(?ni' train carrying through sleeper to
Orle ido ?nd Tampa with one night out
??G.!?... Office. 1406 N. Y.' ?vtfc. nw.?
Ad\ t.
BACKS SCHOOL
CHANGE PLAN
Newman Discusses Objections
to Proposed Abolition of
Education Board.
DENIES CONTROL OF SYSTEM
WOULD GO FROM LOCAL HANDS
D. C. Head Tells Citizens' Federation
Commissioners Would Be Bound
by Existing Restrictions.
A flat denial that a desire for either
political or pe rao nal power prompted the
Commissioners to ask Congress for con
trol of the District school system was
made by Comissioner Oliver P. Newman
in addressing the Federation of Citizens*
Associations in the rooms of the Chamber
of Commerce last night.
Commissioner Newman, standing be
fore delegates from associations that have
assailed bitterly the plan proposed by
him and his colleagues, took up and
replied to each argument that has been
raised against the recommendation.
When he had finished, the federation
thanked him for the light he had thrown
on the subject, and immediately voted to
Iuvite Henry P. Blair, president of the
lioard of Education, and James F.
Oyster, former president of the board,
to present the school side of the question
at the next meeting of the federation.
The motion to invite the school officials
was introduced by William McK Clay
ton, from the Brightwood Park Associa
tion.
* nthor..T Divided.
Pending the next meeting, the ques
tion will remain in the hands of the edu
?oational committee of the fede.ration,
where it was referred from the Clttien?'
Northwest Suburban Association.
C ohi mission er Newman based the stand
of the Commissioners on the fact that
the present divided authority over the
CONTINUED ON PACE SEVEN*.
REVENTLOW SEES SIGNS.
German War Kapert Realises Possi
bilities of Rum S-acce?.
Sj*ci?l Cmih?m to The WaAh tilgt na H<-T??d.
Lausanne, Jan. S.?Count Reventlow,
writing -in the Deutsche T.?g-eszeitun.j.
says:
"The Russian offensive in Bessarabia is
thoroughly organized und hue the utmost
political importance, for, if it is Ipuccess
tul. Greece and Roumania will intervene
in favor of the allies..*'
Greece ?Excited,..Berlin Reports.
Berlin (via Sayville wireless?. Jan. 8.?
'Greek public opinion is highly excited
over the occupation of the Island of
Melog by the entente pow^s," says the
Overseas News Agency. "Athene reports
there is especial cause for indignation be
cause the entente powers did not re
quest permission of Greece as on former
occasions, but simply declared the island
was needed for naval purposes,"
Italy Grabs Josef's Tivolo House.
Rome, Jan. 8.?Ville Deste, a magnifi
cent property at Tivoli, owned by Em
peror Francis Jo?sef of Austria, has. been
seized by the Italian government and
turned into a military 'hoax i tal. Tivoli
is eighteen, miles fix?m Rome.
Norwegian Steamer Sunk.
Ix>ndon. Jan, ?.?The Norwegian steam
er Bonheur. 1.1."* tons, lias been sunk by
a submarine or mine, i?" if tesa member? of
the crew were .landed.
BERLIN MAKES
A CONCESSION
Germany Promises U. S. Not
to Set Passengers Adrift
in Small Boats. ?***..
j^af mff I
PERSONS ON DOOMED SHIPS
TO BE GUARANTEED SAFETY
Pledge Applies to .American Vessels,
But Probably Will Be Ex
tended to Ail.
Germany has made another substantial
concession to the I'nited States on the
submarine issue. Following her assur
ances on Thursday that she would ad
here strictly to the principles of interna
tional law in her submarine operations
in the Mediterranean, the Berlin govern
ment has no?? met another vital objec
tion raised by the Fulled Otates.
Germany's new concession consists in
assurances that she will not turn the
crew and passengers of American vessels
that are to be torpedoed for carrying
absolute contraband adrift in small boats
on the high seas. Germany agrees with
the contention of .the United States that
such treatment of passenger?.? and crew
does not satisfy the demand of interna
tional law that they shall be put in places
of safety.
While Germany s new pledge applies
only to American vessels, the query of
this government having covered only such
ships, the principle involved will, it ??
believed, have a much wider application.
including enemy liners. Germany already
has pledged herself not to sink liners
In the war zone ?* ithout warning snd
without safeguarding the Hves of pas
sengers and crew. Having defined - In
the case of American contraband carry
ing vessels what she regards as "safe
guarding the lives" It will, it is argued,
be difficult for her to apply a different
Mt of principles in the case of enemy
ships
Ma? Make Distinct lo*.
Some officials, however, profess to fear
that Germany may seek to make a dis
tinction on the ground that her submarine
warfare tn the so-called war zone is
an act of reprisal, but it is pointed out
that the Berlin government, while still
adhfring to this claim,- had not a:
matter of practice sought to sink ;
senger liners since having given her as
surances tu this government.
The publication of the German note
In the Frye case and the continuation
of efforts to reach a basis of ?settlement?
in the aUusitania ?jase were the most
important developments yesterday in the
submarine situation.
It was learned that the I'nited States
government will not accept any settle
ment of the Lusitania incident on a mere
money Vasi.?-. Germany has offered In
pay an indemnity for the lives and
property lost, but the United States will '?
continue to insist upon a disavowal of
the act or at least an acknowledgment
of legal liability on the part of Ger
many.
Tlie question which Germany answered
yesterday in the Frye cs-se was raised
by the G?.ted ?States in a communie*-:
tion aent to Berlin on October 14 last. !
This government contended that under
the declaration of L<ondon the require
ment that all persons bu board a vessel
about to be torpedoed must be p.aued in
safety was not satisfied "by merely giv-1
rig them an opportunity to escape ?*
U??-bouts. '
ENORMOUS LOSSES ALONG
RUSSIAN BORDER AS BIG
ARMIES WAR FURIOUSLY
Thousands Engaged in Hand-to-Hand Grapple
Between Riga and Bukowina. Bayonet
Fighting Fierce.
NUMBERS KILLED APPALLING
Czar's Troops Get Control of Kovel, Railroad Center, and
Also Hold the Heights Northeast of Czernovitz?More
than 1,000 Austrian? Captured.
?????il Comte ?a TW ?.-aMailta Hermit.
London, Jan. 8.?The great battle, or seri? of battles, on the Ru?
sian front is being fought with a desperation and reckle*sne*s that
must soon result in a decision or (-?ase from exhaustion and lots?.
The outstanding feature of the fighting is that from Riga to Buko
wina the thousands of men engaged are in a hand-to-hand grapple
Artillery plays the minor part : the bayonet is the major weapon.
Neith?rr side claim.?? victory, but both the Austrian a%] Russian
official reports repeat the dismal phrase, "enormous losses."
The Russians have resumed their massed attack on the Austrian
lines in Eastern Galicia and in Bukowina. In some pla-ces thev suc
ceeded in penetrating tlie Austrian position?, only to be ultimately
ejected.
War Plans Would
Command Respect
Taft Argues Europe Will Be
More Discreet if U. S.
Is Guarded.
Risseaa: u> Tbe Wse?sasru? BeewM.
Isetroit. Mich.. Jasi a.??Prep? red aaa?a
d?>fs not nex?e?aarfly rmm? ta Im truc-..ent.
kat It ?noutd be ?uffloient to prevent thia
country h?\in?. lu rlf-hts trampled by
other? and ??phi ?????*. Europe te W
?wc d'.?cra?t in 1{? Telatili?? with Uta
rnlted state?." ?aat?, William Ho?e?rd
Taft asMreastnr a Uree ?ud learn-? In UM
DwU-a? Board of Casmmarra, %rsalctat
-I beilesre W? OUsTlst to ?SD Into pr?P>? ??.
nea? a? otar preaant cYmditeon of ansare
paredncss? 1? a temptation to tbe rupsdit?
of European nation?
"We haare found that the chantre* of
the ptssaeot war hare brought th? neu
tral countrte? clean to ?rar and tn the
aaaertlon of our rifrht? to protean Amer
ican live? and property we have bean
very near war many time? In ressent
week?.
"1 don't believe we are trolnc to ?ret
Into war. but we muart take alao. to In
ai.??- thla fact. I think the ?raaeotry of
the Houae I? a ?food one and quite ceen
plete when it come? to corntaariaon with ;
the condition of a country. When a man
builds a fine houae he doe? ?sot expect !
It to burn down, yet he takes out fire
insurance to protect himself The United
State* 1? in the ?ame catearon ?It batid*
a rtne ?tructure and play? with Are.
utterly fortretful of lu inaurane? policy?
pre ?? rasata ea* ."
Poincar? Vinti Wounded
Pari?, Jan ?.?Pre??d?mt Potncatre re-1
turner! to ,P?rl? today fro? ? via?! to I
Nane)?, where he callead on the victims |
of the three recent loncs-ranfc bombard-,
menu and diatributed tat The Preatdeat I
alao inspected the batten.? at Nancy
???.?>? .??ia ???? ??
Caartorrsk. tbr to
-nmmand? th? Importaal Ktrvrl Railroad
a ?III lo Rilassali -an?s orni they alao
?M tb? helKhta sortbaasl ot Cmermo
?Iti. bin a terodom? atrantc for b?xh
?tare? la ?UH twin? wand.
-???? Ruaslan otmchaX report i-eo?l?e< t?a
itCfct from Petroct-ad ear?:
"In tn? Rica r?elos. Mar th? Hitau
?load tb? 011 masa aa*ala illraeud potooa
>ua mm ?taaaai our trsarfcss
"Considerable <3acaaaa faroas br Baa?
?T^iucki mmtamm ?ar d?*a ? hawl?
'rum 4 lartor) ek. but afun-aard w?ra et?
otkged. leavUv tVae oOcrr* and flfty
???a ??*???? ????????-?? miro Blu
hand? tmrtmer attarapu hr
to #l'*i aa frota CaartarjA
"Oti th? mtddl? Strypa ?a
turad Aaatrtaii tutina? ht
md fortJ-fled Hi ism yi'? ? emetti* wir* ea
?aaj-'rm<-nu la ?-lose paatart wMi mm
Austrian?.
"In thia flrtitinc me c-aptured 17 oB?-?r?
md mor? thaa Uhm men ?as-Mhsi ?-lth
leverai machin? ?runa
"Northeast of CaarnoTlta <_a Austrtajia
net witn rnormoue loss?? ta ?Itsaiins ts
saaaull ??- ofTrnaiva br ?*?4b?ater-ettacka
We captured 14 ?tBemra. more than a?*?
-nen ?tnd tao machina rt-uaa*'
Tb? Austr,an ofTlds? report ?ars
"Thr batti? In East (?elscta and oa tha
frontier of Kukowtna ha? reofori The
ft-jeetani? advanced under mover ot a miai
upon our batteries oa tka mtryma. The
Sixteenth and ? ? aniy- fourth Hon? ed
Fu-i-imenu and the Plft y aaeapth OaJIclaa
Regiment by a counte? -attack elected tha
Russian? A mon? 31 Ru ?ata?a taken
Klsoncr? ?rer? a mil nel and tea otJtor
mmmmtm.
"In b4tl?r flrhtinc ? aar Toporouts and
last sf Raranoaa aad an 'be Beara
-abian frontier the Russians c-ilerad part
>f our trraobae. bot ?rere drl?m back by
-caer-?-e? la s hand-to-band ft?) it Onr of
ftcer and 9* ??en vrrre taken ptnoomer?
"Tbr Russian? attempted io nacaptur?
he cemetery north 4>f Csaitorrsk kalt
railed."
Today's New Sunday Herald
?11 composed of thirty-two pages?over twice the tut of the
average daily HERALD You ?nil find an equa, dnuion of th?
two things for which most Sunday newspaper? are liim(lit namely,
all the news that really is news, and the ?tore nevar? of ih* city's
most representative merchan?isii?g establishments.
There is more news in thu Sund*? HERALD alone and real
.:?c news feature?, such as activity in socia circle?, trie theaters.
sporti, and the ?.ke. than the page* nihr w ashing'oar oau\
morning newspaper ?nil hold. And there ?? likewise more re?!, live
store news in this Sunday HERALD than could be plac-ed ir the
columns of either of the morning papers, even trKwgh ail the ne????
of the day were excluded.
If there is any daily shopping teed that cannot be trntt. ?uta, lo
the advantage of the -eader. in th? o'tring* ?' :?>? ?ashngtoi
merchants appearing in today s Sunda? HERAiLD. we w.ll ap
preciate it if the oversight is brought to our atle*-ntior And yot
can take advantage of theae buying oppcriumties with the salisi ec
knowle-dge that your money'i ?erorth is assured by 'his ?asMng>on
HERALD guarantee :
AS first announctrd January 1, !91fc, Trie Herald
guarantees full monev's vsorth to the pur
chasers of article* acrVCT?st-d m the ??play column.*
of this papier by any Washington me'chant
. i'.ui'er Fu'nuhrd i'pon Reamtst).
The aboae box it found in the right "ear" space ??ongsicle tie
name plate at the top of the front page o! each w?Mk-<x?y'; issue ri
Tke Waaiiiragtor HERALD aad here?Me? it the left*"ear" space of
the Sunday issues
