OS
MARKETS
mum s
NEW YORK CITY SA L$
- a r i r
week ending Jan. 5.
22.60.
MEMBER ASSOCIATED PRESS
VOL. 18, NO. 193.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, SUNDAY MORNING, JANUARY 9, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
Li W
: !
YOU NGSTDWN
PATROLLED
Bf STATE
5
With Three Regiments of
State Soldiers in Ohio Steel
Town Quiet Prevails. Fear
of Further Violence is Had.
EIGHTY-SEVEN TAKEN
TO COUNTY BASTILE
Other Towns and Mills in Vi
cinity Fear Active Trouble.
Many Threats Reported
None Verified.
YOUNCSTOWN. Jan. 8. Quiet pre
vpilod with the members of the na
tional guard patrolling the streets In
East Youngstown where a drink craz
ed mob ran riot last night, looting,
burning, causing the loss of life and
financial loss of a million and a half.
Humors of fresh demonstrations to
night resulted n renewed vigilance.
A meeting of strikers was held in the
hills tlts afternoon, at which plans for
pction are said to have been discussed.
E.rployes of plants in Mahoning Val
ley, also on strike, plan a demonstra
tion here tomorrow.
. Militia officers admitted they were
informed of the plans but refused to
indicate the attitude of the militia.
Officers say the fourth regiment of
nearly a thousand men, is held in re
serve at Berlin Center, fifteen miles
vest for emergencies. Efforts to ef
fect a strike settlement will open to
morrow by the state. Fred C. Croxton
Male mediator, is expected here to
right. Troops began arriving here at 5 this
naming, but none were taken to East
Youngstown until nearly noon, when
Mayor Cunningham requested the mil
ilia to replace the police, who needed
rest The majority of the troops stay
ed on the train backed into the yards
of the Youngstown Steel and Tube
Company, where they will be quarter
ed. Fortbe first time in the history
of .Youngstown the saloons were clos
ed Saturday. This action was taken
by the city t0 prevent disorders.
Because the pay office of the Young
town Sheet and Tube Company was
burned ty the rioters, the' men were
ccirpelled to line up in the streets to
receive their checks today.
Quiet Is reported ' from Struthers
where threats were made to blow up
the dam and flood the business sec
tion.' A detachment of soldiers and
armed citizens plan to patrol the dis
trict all night. ' .
The eighty-seven persons arrested
in East Youngstown were transferred
to- the county jail. George Get, aged
twenty-three, was the "only person
killed in the riot. Twenty-two are in
the hospitals. It is estimated a hun
dred others were slightly injured and
taken to their homes.
Judge Barnum. of Youngstown, com
municated with United States authori
ties with a view to instituting deport
ation proceedings against the foreign
ers who participated in the rioting.
The death list was made two by the
death tonight of Robert Davis, hit by
a stray bullet. '
TO PROBE GASOLINE.
WASHINGTON. Jan. .The Fede
ral trade commission announced it
would begin an investigation M the
refining, and marketing of gasoline to
determine if the price advances are
reasonable.
MAY ISSUE BREAD CARDS.
GENEVA, Jan.8. "The government
is considering the establishment of
a system of bread cards, similar to
Germany, because of Ahe high price
of wheat, caused by the congestion of
traffic on Italian lines.
INDICTMENTS DISMISSED. j
DENVER, Jan. 8. The Indictments',
against leaders of the United Mine i
Workers of America, returned by the!
Federal grand jury in Pueblo In De
cember 19, 1913, after the coal miners
striker, were dismissed by the United
States District Attorney. The indict
ments charged conspiracy to Interfere
with Inter-state commerce thorugh
the conduct of a strike also a con
snlracr to create a monopoly In the
coal trade In favor of unionized min-j
ers. 1
YOUNG VANDERBILT
MANAGES REUNION
..num. l P rri11
Cornelius Vanderbilt. Jr.
Cornelius Vanderbilt, Jr son of
Mr. and Mrs. Cornelius Vanderbilt
managed the reunion last week of
the Knickerbocker Greys, a military
driL1 class composed of wealthy
younR men. This class, which meets
twice a week for military drill, was
established bysome of New York's
most prominent men, and has some
very famous names, on its member
ship roiL , . , j
VILLA AVVftlTING
FAVORABLE
Rebel Leader Said to be Ex
pecting Dissatisfaction in
Carranza Ranks. Trouble at
Parral, Chihuahua. :
EL FASO. Jan. 8. Villa is resting
his men and horses in the Guerrero
district of Chihuahua and awaiting dis
affection in the Carranza ranks. He
expects to actively continue opposition
according t0 a letter said to have been
received by a Villa adherent.
General Rosalia Hernandez, who dis
appeared yesterday from the Carranza
army, has joined Benjamin Argumado,
the Zapata chief, and has captured
Parral and attacked Torreon, accord
ing to information given the State De
partment representatives here. . The
report lacks confirmation. Fragmen
tary advices told of the occupation by
Villa forces of small towns between
Madera and Casa8 Grandes.
General Jacinto Trevino, commander
of the northwestern corps of the Car
ranza army, left for the south to at
tend a 'conference at Queretaro and
discuss the government's organization.
SAN JOSE SACKED
DOUGLAS, Jan. 8. Nineteen Yaqui
Indians looted the village of San Jose,
Sonora, according to report through
Agua Prieta. The Indians are believ
ed to have been a forage party from
a' band of several in the mountains
north of the village.
' Advices stated the Indians held
eighteen residents of the village as
hostages while pillaging their homes
and stores. They took food and arti
cles of value and released the prison
ers, according to the report.
TO ATTACK YAQUIS.
WASHINGTON. Jan. 8. Admiral
Winslow, commanding the United
states Naval Forces on the West
Mexican coast, reported that General
Diegues bad collected eleven thousand
troops for. a campaign against the Ya
qui Indians. The Mexican embassy
was informed that Antonio Gama. the
head of the convention government in
Morelos state, was fleeing toward the
United States.
MISCONDUCT CHARGES.
ALBANY, N. Y.. Jan. 8. Charges of
misconduct In office were preferred
by Governor Whitman against John
Riley, State superintendent of prisons.
Riley will be give a hearing before
Governor Whitman Tuesday, when a
decision as to his removal from office
will be made. Riley's resignation was
demanded on the ground that his
transfer of prisoners from Sing Sing
would break dow nthe administration
in that Institution.
ASSESSMENT WORK.
CLIFTON, Jan. 8. The assessment
work of the Detroit and Shannon Cop
per Companies, in the district wehere
the miners are on strike, will be com
pleted tomorrow, was the announcement.
EOT
mmzm
BATTLE YET
Russians Resume Their Fierce
Onslaughts in Galicia, Bu-
kowina and Bessarabia. Lit-1
fix. i. flKf-illv IcTnrh-um I
IBOTH SIDES CLAIM
AVANTAGE THEIRS
i Crisis in Great Britain Over
I Conscription Said to be,
Simmering and That No i
Trouble is Expected. ,
LONDON, Jan. 8. The battle con
tinues between the Russians and Au
stro-Germans in Galicia and Buko- j
wina. The Austrians made determin-i
ed counter attacks along the middle ;
Stria, northeast of Czernowitz accord- j
ing to the Russian official communica-;
tion, but were beaten back at both ;
points with enormous losses. The
Russians claim to have occupied sev
eral austrian positions and to have :
taken 1300 prisoners. . !
Berlin insists that the Kaiser's j
throat ailment is slight; while rumors i
I from other countries report It as dan-j
gerous. me untisii political c nsis i
over constription has subsided. t
Count von Reventlow, the German
Naval critic writes that the Russian
offensive was well prepared and that
the Russians have great reserves of j
me nand artillery. H5 considers the'
movement might bring Greece and j
Rumania to the aid of the Entente
powers.
Vnn Rpi-pntlnw'ft nnininn in nnt
shared in England, where the belief
prevails that the Greek King is like-j
ly iu oppose irermuuy, unuer any t
j circumstances.
I It is believed the opposition to con-1
j scription in England may gradually!
I simmer down like the threatened re-
volt against 'drink restrictions." Radi-,1
cal laborleaders discuss the strike of
i coal miners, which would bring the in-
j dustry to a standstill and handicap
(shipping, but there Is no strong evl-ito
dence that important strikes will ma-(this government has contended '.
terialize. Enlistment in groups under j throughout the submarine controver
the Derby plan will reopen January py. The plan is the result or t!v?
10, and continue indefinitely to give I conciliatory attitude shown in rPie::t !
an opportunity to avoid conscription j diplomatic exchanges, especially in j
before the act is effective. j Germany's latest note on the destruo'
In Galicia and Bessarabia the Rus- tion 0r the WiMima P. Fi-ve. madii Dub-I
sians have resumed their fierce at-1
. - ..i. u t u - j 1 -
u" "" uu unMs- ciples that mere placing of non-com-
breaches at some points, but were:batants in Ufe boats 8 insuflioient
driven out, according to the Austrian
j official report. At one point the Rus
j sians were ejected after ahnd to hand
ngnting.
German shells dropping in Nan
cy back of the French lines have caus
ed stories of panic to be circulated In
."it, j M8 n0 I"
started, and there was no panic. The
r i
Hartuian-Wailkopf sector, where the
Germans claim to have taken a por
tion of a trench is the only point on
the western front where the infantry i
is active. There is little military ac
tivity I nthe Balkans, except in Monte
negro, where the Austrians and Mon
tenegrins are clashing.
PEACE PARTY AT HAGUE
THE, HAGUE. Jan. 8. The Ford
peace expedition reached The Hague
and members of the party began plans I
to spread their peace propaganda. The
! trip from Copenhagen on the special I
train through Germany was filled with
w ar suggestions. The peace advocates j
imnecu iihiu lutiug ui Buiuirr uuunu
for the front with Red Cross nurses.
Tneir progress was watched by silent
.crowas. I
j The delegates were met at Warne -
imuenaeDjvaspeelaltminprovideaby
the military authorities. The members
,of the party selected. as their names , navy yards when offers of private
j were called, were permitted by the sol j concerns were above the legal cost
jdiers tn enter the train. The train j limit. Secretary Daniels made the
was locked and started on its trip. 'chance on the unanimous advice of
j Military guards soon relaxed their j his engineering aides.
rules and permitted the travelers to'
I look out of the windows. The trip was! ADA REHAN DIES,
made at night. The usual notices j NEW YORK, Jan. 8. Ada Reham
were posted in the cars warning lne; the actress, died following an opera-
public not to waste food. j tion for arterial affections, asted f5.
The Holland customs officials waiv-jThe actress had been ill several
ed examination and welcomed the par- months. Her real name Is Ada Cre
ty. Within a week the delegates evjhan. She i bori in Limerick. Ire-,
necf n eioct members to remain at ! land. Her first stage appearance was.
the Hague.
The others will start forlat fourteen. She as nct Knn-.vn us.
the United States January 15.
ASSEMBLY PASSES BILL j
SACRAMENTO, Jan. 8. The as-'
sembly passed the new direct primary '
law. forty-six to twenty nine. The!
preferential primary law was amend-
ed forty-six to twenty-five. This ends;
the fight against Governor Johnson
The Senate took up both measures atj
the night session. Both houses may i
adjourn Monday. i
PROMINENT MEN
I
-? r - h, t
t -it , 'J
Left to right, front row: Former
Former Congressman H Robert Fowler of Illinois. Henry B. Martin and Henry Schulteis, identified with
Labor's National Peace Council and indicled in New York on the chnrtrc of conspiring to impede United States
trade in munitions with the alhts hy staitmu striken, will make a liht air-iinst the government's case. They
have employed Attorney Hairy B Davis to defend ihi'in and t.a.e ucmanded a preliminary hearing, which will
le held January M.
mm mm
IS NEARLY
qptti tn
I II I I I I 1 1
Teutonic Attitude Is Concilia
tory; Austria Shows Defer
ence to American Wishes;
Offers of Reparation Made.
N ASiU-NGTOX, .1 -i - 8-r-i nitfld,
States oiliriah are considering the re-
quest from Germany for a definite
statement pledging Germany and hrr
allies to respect their guarantees as
safety of American life .01 which I
iic today. This note accepts the prin -
... .
guarantee of safety. Wilsoii is being
urged to ask assurance that no un
armed ships with Americans aboard
be destroyed until passengers reach a
" j place of safety.
Tlia Pi-pciilpnt lx sniri tn tnnlf with
f on some Mch pToposah xhe
Frj-e concession the offer of Germany
, . , A . ... , ,t , ., ,
ra i i'lrintiin it i- in i- rha I uu tania
victims and von BernstorfTs asstir-
lances regarding the conduct of sub-
diterranean. all
,e the solution of
l lead officials to believ
the problem is near. This Is strageth-
j ened by Austria's deference to the
I second Ancona reply and assurances
j of Wied-nik that, if the Austrian
I submarine sunk the Persia, he had no
I doubt, personally, that full satwfae-
tion would be given.
BUILT BY GOVERNMENT.
WASHINGTON. Jan. 8. Two bat-
t)a cliina are tn hp hllilt At 1ft-
,and N Yrd Rn(, New York and
will be equipped with electric propel-
jli ig machinery, similar to that of the
"California
now neanng completion, j
Ti.n ara hoinc rpviuoH in mn fnrm
witn (he machinery substituted for
thHirertsteainsh.il turbine drive,
The construction was awarded to the
I Orphella in Hamlet win Kttwin
Booth. Her last public appearance
was in l!tH6. ,
BUYS BOSTON BRAVES. 1
BOSTON, Percy D. Haughton. the (
famous Harvard football coach, he
came president and part owner of the
Boston National League baseball club
The price paid by Haughton is said to
be near a half million. George E.
I Stallings was retained as manager.
IN "STRIKE PLOT" CASE
f 4 ,:rT3
vv :i a
Congressman R. P. Hill. Henry B. Davis,
Martin and Herman Srhulleia.
PROTESTS EXCESSIVE yAX.
WASHINGTON. Jan. ..Rep
resentations were made to Car
ranza by the slate department
against the alleged excessive
in measures In mining taxes. It
is understood the United States
holds the taxes must be liqui
dated in connection with future
payments or refeunded. The
American government's action
is considered important to the
minipg industry.
HOUSE PASSES
i Land Development Will
Be
Assured Through Better
Water Power; Bill Contem
plates Joint Aid.
WASHINGTON. Jan. 8. The House!
passed the Ferris Bill, to onen to fif -
t
$1
FERRIS
BILL
ty year lease public lands coataining i Ples- taken from the same number
three times as much water power as!0' dairy wagons serving milk in Bis-
are now under development in the! Dee wa8 UD to the standard. In one
I'nited States. or two cases the bacterial count was
It is estimated in eleven states b!low tne miluura percentage of
J where it Is proposed to enter, there
I is about nineteen million undeveloped lne las P"viae maiune mtiK snan
. horsepower. The bill is the result ofinve l ,ea!,t 3 25 "r cen' Duner fal
study by waterpower experts, support-
ed by Secretary Lane. Party lines
were not observed in the vote. West
ern senators plan a fight on the bill
in the upper house. The bill con
templates joint federal and state con
trol. Leases are not transferable, ex-
I cept by consent of the Secretary of
the Interior. State utility boards
might ' exercise power regulating
rates and issue bonds.
HOUSE VISITS GREY.
LONDON, Jan. 8. The first step of
a trip to Investigate the war. Col.
House, the Dersonal representative of
Wilson, saw Edward Grey, the Minls-
ter of Foreign Affairs. The result
! was not disclosed.
TEDDY AND CANDIDACY.
MINNEAPOLIS. Jan. 8. William
T. Coe, the Progressive leader, an
nounced the receipt of a letter from
Roosevelt, which follows: "I cannot
consent to have my name filed in any
primaries. What I am trying to do
is to fight for straight out American
ism. I am not concerned whatever
with any individual, myself or any
one rise."
WOOD ALCOHOL KILLS.
MAiiLr, Jan. o. nir luiunn
ports seven aeatns Dy aicononsm
since the prohibition law Decame ei-
fective Jan. 1. Four of these died
from drinking wood alcohol.
TW AN K EE ASSASSINATED.
SAN FRANCISCO. Jan. 8,Twan Kee
Sul. former War Minister in th
Chinese republic, was killed it Pekin
by a hired assassin, according to in-J
formation which reached San " Fran-.
Cisco's Chinese quarter.
WILL MAKE FIGHT
VNOZIMV 'XIN30H
a S4UUII r iniiitaa
former Congressman Fowler, H. B.
PURE W W
- '
i't.;
V- F " t I ' - I
DEMANDS GOOD
PRODUCT
" J supposed remains had been laid to
Organization Looking to the rest Jn a cemetery at Lufkln. also.
Improvement of Food Con-'r lifea mrVT' f SOD,e "5-00
; . . . . had been duly paid. However. Georse
dltions Listens to DlSap- Frank Tarsons it was. and none other,
pointing Report, of Officer, the same who had been mourned a.
In a movement to better the milk . dead, their former casual acquaiiit
condUions of the Warren district the ance in the Texas town.
Pun Milk Club mat yesterdav,Tftef- Parsons. -however, failed to exte id
noon and" listened to the report "which the usual courtesies of only a chance
Dr. Ralph H. Herendeen. city health : acquaintance. Instead, his calm de
offlcer, has received rom the state meanor passed, even as the ice melts
laboratory at Tucson.-. It was shown before the sun of spring time. He
that the conditions existing in the milk lams family followed. !- etaoinhrdlu
service to Bisbee are wre'e-hed in the ' hastened to make retreat from Sasse's
extreme. '. i .
, It Is not the-intention of the Pure
Milk Club to discriminate against lo
cal producers in any sense of the
word but the leaders of the movement
are determined to back up the health
officers of both city ad couuty and
see that the babies of Bisbee and the
district are protected from impure and
Inferior milk during the coming sum-
mer and spring.
According to the report of Dr. He-
lrendeen no one of eight milk sam-
uuller ,al "u.rru "J aimm..
content ana must not contain over
500,000 bacteria per cubic centimeter. Mr. Williams fell into a reminis
The largest bacteria count noted, in rent mood, as the incidents of years
the report was 3.500.000 and the small- aso w?re recalled to his memory and
est per centage of butter fat 2.8 per remembered the youth now facing the
cent- I prospect of long imprisonment behind
The club is going to correspond with prison bars then a hard working
the milk dealers in El Paso and other young grocer's clerk, playing. Indeed,
cities, nearby, to determine If milk.!, indent leal to that he had as-
which is up m nir Biduuuru m
naMlnnU, . n n . a ( kj. .mjiiimiI PIia
particular cannot be procured.
The1
organization hopes that local
milk
dealers will make every. ffort to
bring their product to that point where
It will, at least, pass the law's require-
ments but. Inasmuch as many samples
""'" ,u e.g.ueeu
month and nd very improved re
sults have been obtained, the efforts
appear to be wasted locally.
Pl)ST CONSCRIPTION PROTEST.
LONDON. Jan. 8. The first ;public
meeting to protest against conscrip-
tion was held at Cardiff. A resolu
tion was adopted demanding with
drawal of the bill. James Henry
Thomas, labor member of the House;
of Commons, was the principal speak
er at the meeting.
lor March 2. 1913. Pafsons had se-
ARREST GERMAN CONSULS. cured 200 pounds of dynamite which
LONDON. Jan. 8. Reuter's dis- had been shipped to a local contract
patch announces that the German. or. As it happened, the contractor
Austrian and Turkish consuls at Myti- called for the shipment during the
lene have been arrested by the allied day preceding the explosion. Parsons,
military authorities on the same however, informed him that the dyna
grounds as the recent arrests of the n,ite had not arrived, the youth hav
consuls of the Central Powers at in concealed the explosive in the
Saloniki. The Greek government Is Nation.
expected to protest. . . , "That the bov had a good streak
' . in him was shown when he made sure
COR OAKLAND SHIPYARD. Ithat none of his fellow employes were
OAKLAND, Jan. . 8 The invest ; in the freight shed or adjoining offl
me:itof twenty five millions by east- res. at the time of the explosion. A
ern interests In a ship building plant few minutes before he lit the dyria
her is announced. j (Continued on Fae Four)
LEGALLY DEftD
! YOUTH MADE
: BISBEE HIS
' REFUGE
Texas Youth' who Defrauded
i Insurance Companies Out
of $12,000 is Caught After
j Several Years.
i CAPTURE IN CAUFOR-
NIA ENDS THE CASE
F. L. Wuliams TelU of Per
sonal Knowledge of Youth's
, Adventures which Read As
1 Lurid Tale of Dime Novel.
In the early spring of 1913 a youth
of twenty years, tall, with clean cut
; features and clear blue eyes, came to
. Bisbee .walked the streets with non
chalent air and casually entered Sas
' se's c andy stoiv where be ordered a
Hift Hrinlr ' I ' ti m'ua nntltina In hi.
v appearance to cause one to look
twice. But his calm demeanor passed
and he became nervous and restless
as he noted that he was recognized
j by former fellow townspeople of Luf
l kia. Tex.
I It is no wonder that members of
i the family of F. L, Williams experi
enced weird sensations as they looked
t upon the countenance of Parsons, for
)he was the same young man whose
! death had been chronicled and whose
store and sought the shadows of
Castle Rock. The members of the
Williams family followed. Parsons
didn't linger. He ascended a flight of
stairs near the great landmark. Noth
ing more was seen or heard of Par-
sons for several years, even until last
Tuesday.
O i that day. in Palmdale. Cal.. a
young grocery clerk bearing the
name of Frank Garfield was arrested
and later confessed that he was guilty
of defrauding insurance companies
out of $12.00. He was taken to Texas
to stand trial. This young man was
none other than George Frank Par-
sons, the strange visitor to Bisbee.
A story in the Los Angeles Examln-
j er. temng parts oi tne story ot rar-
gon's u elievable career, was shown
P- L. Williams, local E. P. & S. W.
' agent.
i turned when apprehended wi Palm-
'
dale. California.
i i es. i Knew ine au miner hi
nd he 8eenl(Mi a straight .industrious
: 8ort of WIow said Mr. Williams.
He w we ed in the town,
M son of , Metnodist niiDis,er.
de(, some yi,ars MoTg. The youth
then about twenty years of age. livrd
with his stepmother.
"Parsons was a clean-cut type of
youth and appeared to have the re
spect of the townspeople. He never
worked directly for me but. after I
nai, ,eft ,he town he jecured
em-
ployment as ticket agent at the Hous
ton. East A West Texas depot in Luf
kln. "The blowing up of the freight
shed, ticket office, baggage room and
freight cars, occurred on the night
