.1 ! I I II UlMIIL.JII.Llill.,ljJI!UlMWW III m 1 1 . 1 i WWW
r-oyt vnnurrMn and warmer.
ELECTION
EXTRA
I "Circulation Books Open to A1V
A u Circulation Books Open to AU."
PRICE ONE GENT.
feV Tmtld)tt,h, NEW YORK, WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1916.
20 PAGES
PRICE ONE CENT.
WILSON PROBABLY WINS
SURE
KANSA
A
01
A
S,MINNESOT
UF0RN1A IS IN DOUBT
PRESIDENT AND VICE PRESIDENT, PROBABLY RE-ELECTED
WliiSON
THOMAS R.
14ARSHALL
SUBTO FIRE IMPERILS 2,500;
SCORES OVERCOME BY SMOKE
Three Lenox Avenue Trains
Stalled for 45 Minutes Amid
Stifling Fumes.
k main cablo In a connection bov
fifty feet oouth of tho Ono Hundred
ml Tenth Street station of tho Lenox
Aveauo tubway Wow out Just before
xrildntfiht, A flro ensued, sixty tcct
undor ground. Trains ran Into the
den bmoko nnd halted. IWoto
trtffle could bo resumed, an hour
later, ",o00 persons had fmisht Uflr
wry .to the froth air or been rc.scu
by scores of police anil firemen.
Many of tho trappc p.'iHHpuijf r
n-erft overcome by winding i-.nwi,..
Donne bad to be laid nut .lViiir the
etrasts at the Otic Utiivlred up. I nit.
i n4 Nlnety-.lth Strict - .uon. ml
J tatfto mot lay In Contral r-nU ..(in
I rqMfcto U lurf&ct throuib the
emergency exit opposite One Hun
dred and Fourth titrcot. llattorios
of pulmotors wero iont up by th
Consolidated, Gas Company, nnd sur
geon nnd ambulances responded
from nearly every hospital In Man
hattan. Doctors treated llfty or lxty
persons who wore overcome but who
were able to so to tholr homes,
As far as tho authorities Know,
thorn wero no fatalities, though huu
dieds f trundled through tho smoke
tilled tubo lii'loio (ho third. mil power
win cut off. Only one man Is knonn
io ime lieet Injured.
lie w.is iKM.i'r. I''ri"din.in, fifty, of
(C'uiiiinuud on Sciond lo )
WILSON AWAKENED
WITH REPORTS OF
PROBABLE VICTORY
in
If UOfll.H IHWII Ill !..r.
i i C' it c,
11U 1,'ltjf,
i all r.f.
ttdcit Wi tmflnmn Mua
an I
Vumulty Gives Early Day An
nouncement io President He
Mas at Least 264 Votes.
tSft tl tn TJvi Krnlnir Worlt.)
KHAnOW UVW.V, I.ONO HILUVCII.
Nov. Piosldent Wilson, who had
pone to bed curly this mornlnir fnelnj
what looked llko dcfi it, we nwjX
oned at 7.30 A. M. i,y Soorntury Tu
inulty, who Kuvn now of victory. The
Secretary yhud been tnbnlatlm; re.
t irna all nlKht, lefti'-lfttr In llevo
M'.il chl'f had 1 in (lefoited. As
l..t!v-.l ill' from ids iIphIc In l o
.ecutUc otl: nt Anbury Park and
-.IW till' Hist ion) i.ijh of tho S'JIl
I.1 nlili'iiliiB thf h i In- h.ol Jint (.
I 'imI a very i-nreful t-.t Ic ul.it Ion. Tlr
10'ik up his lolephoti'' and awalsened
tut: l't evident at Ulmduw La-,sa.
"I am certain," e.ild Mr. Tumulty,
"that you have at tho very least 20
i-'ectoral votes, and tho prospoct Is
brlfthtor every mlnuto. You nro sure
of Minnesota and Knnsns. Idaho,
California, New Mexico, New Hamp
shire, Delaware and AVest Virginia
iro U11 in douht."
Tho l'r'Jdent exproasel his thanks
for tho chefrtnj; news, but he was not
exoltcd. Ills lust words before Kolnj?
to rcjit'wero that bo -would say noth
ing until th" result was certain. Ho
was unruffled then. He won utill calm
whon ho beard the chunrje in the sit
uation. Heforo breakfast ho heard
from Mr. Tumulty agntn, who tHo
nboned later details, Idaho ami New
Hampshire urotrifd to be added to tl o !
Demoerath' column, Tho President,
still unruffled, Joined his household at j
the mornlnjr nvul. It was announced ,
that ho had no definite programme j
for tho day. I
Mr. Tumulty rnmn out of his of- I
nca nt 8 A. M. anil started for a 1
quick breakfast. He said ho had j
heard from National Chairman M'
Cormlek that theie were ctiotush i
i-loctroil voti s "put on Icp" In mo'e
tho icsult main foi Wllhon an. I
.Marshall. No one who aw Mr.
Tu nulty could believe that lio ha
born mi nil nlKht, busy Willi t.i'ly
Hheets, c.deulatlni; the eliancn of Ids
party and his chief. The ood nowK
t r 1 1 Hm Wiut Hindu li tin uuk frih
aud rosy.
Democrats Claim at Least 273 Electoral Votes, and
Secretary of the Treasury McAdoo Declares That
the President Can Win Without Vote of California.
Hughes Has 230 Sure Votes, and 28 Are in Doubts
Idaho Latest State to Swing Toward Wilson Col
umn Ohio Claimed for th President by From
50,000 to 100,000. -
With the prospects favorablo for President Wilson carrying Kansas, Minnesota and California, and New Hampshire pre
senting an oven break, both sides claiming tho Stato, it appears reasonable to the Democratic National Committee to claim
absolutely 273 electoral votes for tho President. This is 7 more votes than the required 266 necessary to a choice.
Indiana has gone republican. The nows did not discourage the Democrats, for they have had but faint hopes of carry
ing that State. A summary of tho situation In tho pivotal States follows:
In the Stato of Minnesota the cities of St. Paul, Minneapolis and Duluth gave Wilson 15,000 plurality. The Democratic
leaders claim that this lead cannot be overcome by the country districts. The St. Paul Dally News claims the State for Wilson
by 12,500.
The returns from more than one-half of the precincts of the State of Ohio to-day gave President Wilson a lead of 39,958,
the count being mado in 3,518 out of 5,570 preotnots. In tho Stato race Cox, Democrat, had 293,710 votes to 286,336 for
Willis, Republican, and Senator Pomerene was leading his Republican opponent, Hcrrlck, by 289,464 to 281,614.
The Democratic committee claims Ohio by 100,000 for Wilson and the safo cloction of the State ticket. The Republican
committee declines to concede the State to Wilson and claims success In tho Gubernatorial and Senatorial races.
Wilson assumed the lead in California. With 2,152 precincts out of 5,917 reporting, the count stood Wilson 141,396
to 140,672 for Hughes. J. H. Scemansky, registrar of votes in San Francisco, stated that the vote so far as counted indicated
that Wilson would carry San Francisco by about 20,000. Sec rotary of tho Treasury MoAdoo claims that Wilson can win
without California.
In Idaho this morning Wilson had a lead of 4,600 votes out of a count of 45,000 from 234 of the most populous
districts of the State. The total vote is estimated at 112,000. In the Gubernatorial race the Democratic candidate leads by
seventy votes.
" 1 '' West irginla, on a count of more than half the precincts In the
f-pjwrj rj CJnp'Vf) A I XfYTPl-H st;ltci K,1VC Hughes 4J, 120 to 38,716 for Wilson. Robinson, the Repuii
1 Tl fci CJLwtwV 1 VlxL V KJ 1 Cr jlican candidate for Governor, and Sutherland, the Republican candidate
for the Senate, lead Cornwell and Chilton by less than 2,000.
Although President Wilson vas leading Hughes In NMssouri on the
last returns by I3,ooo, Lamm, Republican candidate for Governor, led
Gardner, Democrat. The experts said that, while the Wilson 'cad
seemed to assure him the State, it could not be taken as a ccrtjlnty until
some outlying districts, normally Republican, had reported.
Chairman Hopkins, of the Wyoming State Democratic Committee,
claims the Slate lor Wilson by 2,000. The Republican committee rc-.
fuses to admit the claim. fi
Oregon was claimed by both committees to-day. Wilson carried
the outside districts of Multnomah County, in which Portland is located,
Iiy l.ooo, but Portland cut the majority to -loo.
Less than half of the 290 districts of Nevada' give Wilson 3,167
and Hughes 2,40 L Senator Key Pittman, Democrat, is leading for the
Senate.
In Washington 916 precincts out of 2,385 give Wilson 75,66 ,
Hughes 69,681.
Returns fmm 1 ,07-1 out of 2,174 precincts in Kansas give Wilson
145,803, Hughes 130,527.
The latest returns from New Hampshire, with 21 precincts missing,
gave Hughes a pluralty of 1,869 votes over Wilson, the vote being:
Hughes 42,325, Wilson do, l5S.
Henry W. Keyes, Republican, was elected Governor by a pluralty
of S.50O o-.ei John C. Hutchins, Democrat. The States two Republican
Congressmen, Cyrus W. Sulloway and l:dward H. Watson, were re
elected. I 'poii retmiiN iIuk f.ti received the Republicans hae trained House
.wais in New nrk, K.iiimn Minnis, Maine, Maryland, Wisconsin Iowa
and nklili'dua. liiieeu in all. These were oil set bv DemoeratK pains
-.' in New ,i ork aNu, mi in the Twentieth District of Pennsylvania, where
.'b A. R. Brodeck defeated S. H. McCall; in North Carolina, where J. J.
"iamvui a-.
HUGHES.
Connecticut
DeliiTrnre $
Illinois to
Itidluna !'
lorra lit
Unlnc i
MnisnrlniM'tts IS
Mleliltmn li
.Ye.ler.irj- II
.Voir York "
Pennsylvania
Ithode Island
South Dakota ....
Vermont
lis
r
r,
4
Wisconsin Kl
To In I
cm
WILSON.
Wiihnmn I'.'
Arlrunn .'I
ArkniUm l)
( nliiniilii li
I'lorlilu i!
(.'nil t'lu
Malm I
hiinsni ID
Kenliirlt) Ill
I.nulslaua 10
Wnrjliind A
Mtnncsutn 1-
.Mitslsilppl 10
Missouri IS
Montana I
I.Yebra.ska S
Nctfida rt
I Vorth rurnllim IS
IVortli DaUtn .'
Ohio
IIMiihoina 10
Orccon
South Carolina U
Tennessee I'-
resus 20
Halt It
Vhylnla 1'-'
Washington 7
IV.voinlnf.' Il
'lolnl '-';:!
i DOUBTFUL.
; Tin-Mi .Males nro close ami
, lit doubt;
, ( allfnrtila
e llhniililre ,
I Ven Mexico
, Meet VJrdul.i
-Illl
..III
.. I
lotal
1
zzt T J
J
V
i i
Oufn 0 tn 7. Clo.rU Pnnnnr. mr i
