THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair and warmer to-day: to-morrow in-
creasing cloudinesn; Bouth winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 56: lowest, 43.
pttalkd weather, mall and mjrlne reports on page 13,
IT SHINES FOPv ALL
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 69.
NEW YORK, WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1916. Copyright. 1111. V th Sun Printing and PubUthtng Awocioffan.
ONE CENT
Jereey Cllx and Newark. ) TIV( CENTS.
HUGHES ELECTED BY NARROW MARGIN; SWEEPS WEST;
HAS 291 ELECTORAL VOTES; CONGRESS TO BE SPLIT;
WHITMAN AND C ALDER CHOSEN BY HUGE MAJORITIES
SSUVL
HOUSE WON, BUT
SENATE GOES TO
THE DEMOCRATS
HeiMiblk'iins Capture Jloth
liiiliana .Stmts, but Lose;
Mlipitt's.
HIJJAM .JOHXSOXTO
SKKVK AS SKXATUK
Myron T. Herrick and I C.
Knox Will Wear
the Tojya.
F1IAXK . KKLLO(i(i.
TltTST liTSTKK. WINS
Miss Kan U i n Is Probably
Klecteri as the First
Congress woman.
Tnrnt:iilite rcturtiK Indicate that
Pirsldent Hughes, despite the lirrolc
efforts of the Republicans to regain
the legislative brunch of the CJovern
ment. will have n divided Congress on
his hands.
The Hepnlillruns, counting upon a
larger proportion of gains in Western
than In Kastern States, apparently
hive turned their minority In ttie
House of Representatives Into n small
majority.
The DcmocinUc majoilty In the
Senate hna been toiluied and later re
turns from doubtful Western States
may give the P.cimbllcuns a l're
Uad. although thLi Is not probably.
Gain In Senatorshlpa.
T 'e Itcpubllcans gained Senators in
Sew Vork. New Jersey. Maryland. Ohio.
Ii .lmna (two) and hurt one to their
ci relit In Maine u a renult of the hep
tt iii.ui- election.
If they had sustained no losses this
a f.u Id have brought them within two
nus of as many as theDemocrats. Hut
S. tutor Sutherland has apparently been
fiatel for reelection In Utah nnd Sen-
Mi l.,iillt In Rhode Island nnd the
iKMinxrat claim Senator du font's seat
i Delaware. There are a number of
teats Jtlll In Uouht, Including Nebraska,
Nevada, West Virginia and Montana.
in the llaht of these doubtful Htates
It m Impossible to predict which political
jmty will control the Senate. The Re
publicans must n ake a net gain of seven
t-n.itois, In addition to the one they
In- calned In Maine. In order to break
tua with the Democrats and obtain con
trul through the deciding vote of the
u.e-President.
senator I.lnpltt's Defeat.
The defeat of Senator LIYltt In Ilhode
W..rnl was a surprise to the Republicans,
ho hart counted confidently upon his re
tutu He will be succeeded by I'etcr
Get (ierry, who Is now serving a term
In he I Inure.
The House will probably be Itepubll
ci i. but the margin has narrowed with
lite returns and unless the Hepubllcans
n.ike gains In the middle West and far
Wisterii States their majority will be too
c: in r-ir comfort.
ICepulilleiin gnlns were recorded In the
fodonuisc States: Maryland, 2 : New Jcr
f 2 New York. S, with two Republican
i!ir, is in doubt, The Dcmocrnts have
tr.nle .1 net gain of two In Pennsylvania
t in North Carolina, One of the sur
rr'sliu ii'pults was the defeat of Hep
ri m, Mine ibirrhfeld nf Pennsylvania,
slio was opposed by the lalor vote, cs
V1 .illy be rallioad organizations.
I'ord'a Comimlmi Falls.
Tun ineffectiveness of Henry Ford'
Mi'ip.ugn l.ibnrs In behalf of the Demo
fane parly is reflected In the possibility
' a' Michigan may send a solid Repub
1 .m delegation to Congress.
Senator Townsend, Republican, swept
t State and late returns Indicate thut
' atiK Poremus, chairman of the Demo
catir Congressional campaign 'commit
t'e mi Mr Foul's own home town,
h'.e reelection was taken for granted
k Pie Itepubllcaiis, It perilously near
fe.it The same danger overtook Rep
res'iilative llejkes of Ann Arbor, the
" other Iieuiocrat on the delegation.
M'r.M'igli rlie apparent Rroubllcan bad
I 'lie lower bouse Is only four, several
"'" is in doubt aie claimed by the
'lepuhliinns, If these claims are homo
b tin: filial ledums without losses
In n,f Western mates, where there arc
Kiiue doubtful districts, the Repub
''an r ijorlty In the House may reach
l.flfdl
iinilook In Wisconsin.
T'n lieiniKratIc delegation In Wisenn
l" le 'hrenteneii with annihilation, nnd
' Tli.tteciilh, Fourteenth. Fifteenth
"'l f- xteriith dlstllcts of Missouri, all
" wii" i me normally Democratic, nie
ii' ii. i, ,i
T' f.i' of Meyer London, the lone
mi ui. In doiilit,
,e i l.na to llm latest lelurns Pome
" ' b idii.g llerilck for the Senator-
i' I 'hi. i, but advantage U too slight
.is the basis for a predlitlon as
' il oiitciiini!, The Reiiibllc,ili
" ' 'le tliat HerrlcU will Win,
s' i if Hie Itepiihllc.in wliecl horses
lr H'iiimi wire reelected, Represen
t ii Mann of Illinois, minority leader,
Continued on Jfccond i'agt.
THE ELECTORAL VOTE
Alabama,.
Drlii war .
Idaho.
Iowa
Kansas, . . .
Kentucky. .
Louisiana. .
Maine. . . .
Maryland. .
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada ,
New Hampshire.
New Jersey. . . .
New Mesico . .
New York
Ohio. . .
Oklahoma
Tennessee .
Teias... .
Utah ...
Washington.
West Virginia..
Wisconsin
Totals
Necessary to elect
SCORES HUR T IN
IN ELECTION CROWD RUSH
Short Circuit at 107th Street on Lenox Avenue Line
Throws 2,500 in Three Trains Into Panic Many
Overcome by Fumes or Injured in Crush.
Klie. caused bv a t-hort clicult. broke
out In the subway Just as the election
nlsht crowds were beginning to travel
home In packed trains. The blaze was
near lUitb street In the ltronx branch.
Between thirty and forty persons re
quired attention from the Internes who
tame In ambulances from the hos
pitals. Most of tnem were partly over
come by the noxious smoke from burn
I in; Insulation which tilled the tube.
Others were Injured in the panic which
occurred when a llrunx Park train filled
with smoke and went dark.
Unconscious men and women were
carileil from the emergency shaft and
laid on the glass in Central P.uk, where
surgeons used pulinolurs In leHiiscltatltiK
them, usually with ipii'k results. The
rescue .iiad of the I'uc Department
helped in tills woik,
Three northbound trains were stalled
and 2,500 men, women and children
fought their way nut of the cars. Some
of them weie led by train news to the
employes' emergency exit at 101th
stieet and Central Park West. Others
walked back to Nlnety-slMh street and
scrambled to safety on the platform.
Police praised the courage und coolness
of the guards,
Throna- Almost lluu Uotvn.
The crowd was groping Its 'way
through the stinging- smoke when, with
out warning, one of the stalled trains
started and narrowly missed I uniting
Into a throng trying to get back to
Ninety-sixth street guided by policemen.
Inspector Daly shouted a warning and
those Imperilled iicrambled to tb" other
track Just In time. The third rail was
an added danger. It was not "deadened '
for fifteen or twenty minutes afler the
accident. . ,
Service was tied up from 11 :30 o clock
until 1 o'clock. Congestion on the plat
forms at (irnlid Central, Times Square,
Fourteenth atieet and Urooklyn bridge
caused the sale of tickets to be slopped.
The great crowds which were trying to
get homo after the election night cele
bration were forced to turn to the elc.
vatcd and surface cars, At 2 a clock
this morning service had been restored
... o. vin-tv. sixth street, but the
smoke was too bad not only on The
llronx division, but also on the Rroud
wny side, to resume the running of
trains nbove that point,
Chief Kenlon. with the first siihwra)
lire In mind, toolt no chances nf not ha.--,
...,i, li.imir.iiu. and men nnd scut
'I,, four alarms. I'nuu police pieclncts
111 Harlem 100 reserves were sent to the
scene, Hotli tho firemen and the police
helped to guide parscngers out of the
'"one. man. Ignati Friedman "f 12 West
117th street, was lemmed to a hopsltal,
His side was crushed agaliHt u stanchion
In a car In the llrsl panic
TwriiO-tliree Treated at One Place,
M 104th street twenty-three persons
required assistance in leaching the
street and the attention of physician
afterward. Three persons were taken
Klcctorul
Vote. Hughes.
Wilson. In doubt.
12 12
ft i
9 9
13 It
6 6
7 7
A S
6 6
14 14
4 4
29 29
15 15
l.t 13
10 10
13 ... 13
10 " 10
6 6
8 8
18 18
IS 15
12 12
10 10
IS 18
4 4
8 8
3 .. 3
4 4
14 14
3 .. 3
45 45
12 .. 12
5 5
24 24
10 .. 10
5 5
38 38
5 5
9 9
5 5
12 .. 12
20 .. 20
4 4
4 4
12 12
7 7
8 8
13 13
3 3
531 291 20b 34
266
SUB WA Y FIRE
out through a giallmc at l3d strtet
Ten of the hundreds of persons who
emerged at Ninety-sixth street nere
partly overcome by smoke and by fright.
There were few children In the ctowd,
but most of those who were helped by
physicians were girls who had been
watching the election returns.
A northbound Bronx Paik express,
we'll crowded, left the Ninety-sixth street
station In good order and had Just
worked up full sliced when passenger
began to smell smoke. l'nder loTth
street the train stopped suddenly a
flames flared from the Hack. The tlamct
burnt part of tint wiring and oil under
the car. but did not reach the Inside of
the cars,
Paulo ensued when the lights went out
leaving only the dim emergency lights,
which are operated by batteries. The
guards did all In their power, the isillce
say, to restore order. When It became
apparent, from the rapidly Increasing
volume of pungent fumes that the Double
was serious, they called to passengers to
follow them and led them to the em
ployee' ladder at 101th street and Cen
tral Park West.
Two mole tialns weie stiiilieil behind
the first by the emergency block slcnals.
The smoke began to roll fiom the side
walk gratings and Into the stations at
Ninety-sixth and lHUh street.
My this time flrrmen were on hand
and patiolmen called by the subway
emergency sicnal system. They enteied
the .tube nnd aided iu leading the 2,500
ten tiled paseners to safety. Inspector
Daly, who had been watching election
returns at the Clnie, got word early, und
was one of the flrst police oilbiaU on
hand, lie took charge, and later com-
manded the lOo ieseres.
Short Circuit the Caose.
Thoma Trophy, Fire Marshal, nscrr
1 taint .1 that n short circuit In the wiling
I or the third rail caused the lire. The
whole of the llronx branch was affected,
' I HI H.I hi.
First riimnis that the file had been
caused by strikers were denied by Intel
' borough officials, who said they could
1 discover no evidence that the cause of
I the trouble was other than accidental.
The tleup which followed wan one of
the worst since tho fatal blase of nl
I most two years ago. On any other night
' paralysis of (he subway when the thea-
tres me closing would be serious. On
I election ii I Klit the congestion was multi
plied many times,
At Times Squuie and (Irnnd Central
' hundreds who hud been walling when
suspension of service was announced
called for the Inleliioiougb emergency
checks and poured nut on the thiiuiuiil
Mreets to seek the elevated and surface
lints, Thesii weie swamped tpiltkly, nnd
thousands pioloiiKcd their nutlng until
the small hours through necessity.
With all this trouble and the natrow
cciiii from disaster the money loss to
the Intel hiirnuKli I" enmiaicii at vriii
Lett Is ipill-ellll Iteelecled,
It was indicated b) the ote counted
up to :i n'timi: this illuming that Jinny
K Lewis, Republican candidate for re
election iih District Attorney In Kings
county, has won over James T O'Neill,
Democrat, The count showed Lewis
polled 82,371, O'Neill, 9,23l.
N.Y. STATE GOES
REPUBLICAN BY
110,000V0TES
lurlie.ss Lead Over Wilson,
With 251- Districts Miss
iiiiT. Is I II Mi 1-7.
GOV. WHIT3IAX WINS
KVKX HKUlKIt VHTOHY
William 31. C'alilcr Heats
3I('('onibs for Senate by
Wide 3lai'in.
(i.O. I'. WILLHAVK 101
IXXKXT ASSK3IHLY
Progressives Arain in Old
Party Fold. Allegany
Uesult Shows.
New Yuri; State was swept by the
Republicans. It was u wholesale vic
tory, bin figures beini; required to ex
press the pluralities for Stute und na
tional candidates.
The plurality for Hughes for Presi
dent will be probably not less than
llti.nOO; It may l somewhat higher.
Hughes In the Stnte outside of New
York clt. nilll :.. itlstrlet. ttiUlnt- hi
ju total of S.GiO hud ii lend over Wilson
of 14t,7H: WINon's lend In New York
city, nil districts complete, was tu,
OCT. The totals nf the wile in thl citv aie
Wll.on, X51.537. Hughe., .111.17"
Wilson'" lead In city, 40,l7
tite tllll.hlr Ihr Cll.
Tae xott- In the State outside of New
York clt. with 2."t districts missing,
stand. Hughes. SSli.Sltf, . Wilson.
3S4.1.-.1.
Hughes's plurality outside of New
York city Is 1)4,711
The net plurality for the whole State,
with 251 district m!flng. Is theiefore,
in I, ill 7.
It Is lrtua!!y ceitaln the mllnf.- dis
tricts, being ah outside of New York city,
will Incieax the Hughes plurality ma
terially. (lo.. Whitman e plurality over Judge
Sea'jiuy with s,M districts missing I
124,711 Tile missing dlstllcts, all of
llieni outside of New York I'll), ii'.i III;,.,
ly to Increase the ilovetnor's lead to t'iO.
000 or Hin.imo. Sialiuiy i.nrled New
Viuk City by mil) u little more than 2'.',
tiuo, Kugene M, Travis, State Comptroller,
and the other Republican State otlUials
have been all reelected by pluralities: ap
proximating thoe given to Hughe and
Whitman, The Republican victory wn
thoroughgoing and complete, wi'hout a
II aw
The next Stale Legislature will be
inor stionsly Republican than that of
last winter. In tin Senate the returns
Indicate the lit puhlli .wis will have IV
member., a gain of f. The next As
sembly will stand Republicans, Jul ;
Democrats, 4!. The Assembly of JJIfl
was divided Republicans, Hnj Demo
crats, 51 ; Progressives, 1 , Socialist, 1
There will be no Progressive In the
next Legislature and no Socialist.
I'roaresslt ra Hack In a. O. V. Told.
The Progii'sHlves are hack In the Re
jiubllcau pirty The vote In all parts of
the state demonstrated the completeness
of the reunion of the party An ex.
ample of this I to be seen In the otc
In Allegany (ounty, wbkh was among
the II 1st icturiiH, and proved typical of
the Stale as a whole
Hughe carried Allegany county, bis
vote there being fi,151 against .1,1M cast
for Wilton. In II'Il' Allegany county
save Wilson 3.C3I votes, Roosevelt 2,750
and Taft IV. II It will be seen that the
vote given to Hughe In the county yes
tirday was greater than the combined
vote of Roosevelt and Taft In 1A12,
LMdeiitly not only did all the Pro
gressives In Allegany county leturn to
the Republican fold, hut their suppoit
of Hugh was supplemented by the
votes of , percentage nf the 1 lenioci .its.
Democratic hopes were disappointed
all along the line. The Republican wito
In Republican districts Mood liken stone
wnll, The big slump which the Wilson
cnrrrpalgn managers predicted would he
seen In the up-Stato vote for Hughes did
not eventuate.
Nenliiiry Vole Went In Month.
There was ii slump but It was In the
Dcuiocialk vole iu this ell). Not a
single borough In flreatrr New York
gave Wilson mi) thin like the nnimal
Democratic plurality, Hut It was in the
vote for Oovernor that the Democratic
campn!;n went to smash utleily
It looks, with u number of election dis
tricts still to he heard from, as If WII
sou's plurality In the city finhraclnB all
five borough- would not be over lO.efifl,
The lowest plurality pinmlsed by the
Tammany Hull leaders, was Sl.no.i; Re.
publicans hardly expected lo keeji the
city plurality for the President much be
low cn.ono,
Hughes, h plurality outside, nf tho city.
Judging by Incomplete teiuriis, will he
little If nnv below D.5.niu; It may he
10,000 or 15,000 iibnvn that llguro,
T'ic Republican inndld.ite'H title to
New York's foit)ho electoral votes
therefore will be a plurality In thu nelgli
boihoisl of 125,000,
indication!! am that Gov. Whitman's
Continued on Fourth Page.
Ifl 1 tSSMBlVfttVW ZtbbM1 'sLbbbbbb!
a IsPIiBBBBlBSBB'f'fsib ItBBBBBBBV1 BBBBBBBBBi
BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBbIBBSK sSsvl3B
-'''J bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbGvV- - ' "IIbbbbbH
j- . 'fl v i '''SBBBBBBBBBbK" ?l?ftv -7 . .JJBBBBBBBBB
r.J. SbbbbbbbbbbbbbbW.'sJ'V' - -- sbbbbbbbH
sCB '(fKSm "sIbbbbbbbI
BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBasBBBBBBBS
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbM bbbb&IbI
Ttottt S,Vr UMuwcoo.UNoaoc
Charles E. Hughes, President-elect
C ALDER ELECTED SENATOR
BY MAJORITY OF 240,000
Republican Candidate Runs Ahead of Both Hughes
and Whitman and Even Carries New York City
Against William F. McCombs.
William M. Ciililcr. Ri'iiilblli'iin,
iH.r William F. McCniiilis, Jifinocrnt, y : majority which itictiiiii'li'te
returns fnelvi'il up to !l:.!0 o'clock llnllciilfil wiinlil mijirt Itntitt '.'10.000.
Thiuiuli tin villi for Senator vn. less than Hint tor I'lllicr PivMileiit or
(,'iivi'iiior, Culilcr's. majority v:ih fur In rtiv of Hint of oil hoi' limbics
or W lilt iiuiii.
CiiMcr oven ciinli'il Now Yuri; illy, which wonl fur WlKon for Pio-l-ilcnt
ami Si'iibili'.v fur tin trtior. lb lost .Muiiliiitlun, Tin litoiix ami
lilchiiiiinil, but I ui 1 1 :t In rt iiiniuln in llriioklyu, his lintiu lniicir.ii. unil
a mujoiity hi tjuoons, '
With 3G7 nf tin 2,127 oIpiMoii illslrlots in the j!iv:iloi' city inls-liu:,
Ciililcr lonils .McCtimbx h.v 24S.S9C to 225, S74. This liwllciilcs u miijoiiiy
in the clt. In Hie ticluhhtilhoud nf 27,000. lie I'ltnit-I ilrixiklyn with
38,702 viiios to spurt.
Itilitii:s from 2,294 ll-t rlft out of 3.CS0 iutiiif tin city mto Ciililcr
P 0 . 1 7 7 . .MH'omlis 224,:i73, ii tniilgiii fur tho UoiillIh-iiu fiiiullil.ili of
l:tl,S04. If Cnlilor miitntiillis tin sumo imtooiiIiil-o of lo.iil In tin olitliv
Siato, huiiiillim lho oily, his majority will oxcecil 24 2,000.
INAUGURATION MAY BE MAR. 3.
'on r I Ii I'mIN oil Suiidii) I .No flreak
In Micreaslou,
WAsitiyirroN. 'Nov 7 Although In-1
angiii Jtluu day, Maich I next, falls on I
Siind ly, there will be no breaU In the.
Presidential suec.-hsloii. according to of-,
(Rial of th" Stale Depaitnient. The
wldcspiead icport that Secretary Lnn
hln would be President for twenty-four
hums between Maich t and March 5,1
when the new Pielilcnt Is swoin In Ih
not lnl.cn seriously b.v Secretary L.an
nils: or the b'gnl autlioiltle.
Iu 1!77 Presldtnt llajes tool! the oath
of olllce on Match 3 and his term began
on Match it mum, This procedure 1
might be followed next year. PresMenl
Mumoc in 121 tool; the oath of olllce on
March 5 and President T) lor followed1
tils example In IStD. '
The fact that Inauguration day fall
on t-unday probably will nult In having
the Inauituial pageant hen the following
d.iv.
DANIELS RESIGNED TO FATE.
Hull Nul expected In Iteinnlii In
Citlilliet In Any I'.venl.
ItAtr.nm, N, C, Nov. 7, Jopephu.
Daniels, Stcretaiy or the Navy, after
voting lure tn-day boarded n tiatn for
Washington beforn the election returns
had shown the defeat of President Wil
son Mr. Daniels received lelurns In hi
newspaper olllce for wvernl hours, and
when the women voters showed a pre
ponitoioiice for Hughes he declined lo
comment until the liesldent or Chair
man MiCotinlck spolie, and before either
would concede, Wilson's defeat the Secre
tary W.IK gone.
I.'iiends of the fecietary of the Navy
have said thiouir'iont the campaign Unit
whatever tin vice! "ii remit Mr, Daniels
ireant to return to Raleigh to take
chaige of his newspsier.
Wnlilitvv (Sues t Citnitri'S.
Ilt'KI'Alo. Nov. 7. W. P. Waldnw, Re
publican candidate fur Congress in the
Korty;second district, which Is In Krle
county, has been elected, defeating Hop
Itscntatlve Daniel J, DrWcoll, renomi
nated by the Democrats.
ii HoWeil I'llltcil Stiito Soimloi'
T. R. HAPPY AT RESULT
tnil Will ol Jliikt Any Iteeoni
niriiilnltonn Itt llnitlies.
OrsTl.r. 1UV. Nov. 7. Col. Roojevelt
with Id gratification over tin leMilt
coupled the promise that lie would make
no recommendation to Mr. I lushes
ii bout appointment or leglsl.it w policy
He was told of the undoubted if suit at
9 -15 to-night.
"I nm thankful a an American for
the election of Mr. Hughes," s.ild the
Colonel, "It Is u vindication of our
national honor. Itecaiise of sonic
rhargit. that have hem undo I vMi
to stall now that I will not uudei any
clrcumstautes make any tecommerida
lions to Mr. Hughes with lefercuce to
appointments or concerning h.s legisla
tive pollcv,"
Col. Roosevelt with Ids son Aichle
went to the polls shottly before noon
lie mt there Louis P. Hrown. light
house tender at Cold Spring H.ilUir.
"Here Ik iu) Idea of a real American,"
said T. It. "Ills parents weie Hermans
lln was outside the haihor of Santiago
as a seaman on the Indiana when 1 was
Inside "
His chauffeur. In li)lug to hack
against the curb, smashed Into lln run
way of tin tire engine house which
served nil the voting place.
"Don't break It down!" yelled the Colo,
nel, "1 don't want to spend tu-dny In
Jail"
WILSON LEADS IN MONTANA.
Has H.'inil to lliiulies's 1,7111
In
I Precinct. Out ut l.'JItll.
llt'TTi:, Mont., Nov. i Mlty-tvv
o pre
M3i;, rlncts out f I.2S9 fllve Wilson
Hughes 1,7 'I.
Twenty-tli'i'ii out or 1,23',' for
crnor t;lc Stewart (D,) 5,r.tf
vvntds (It 1. 2..r.s0.
The vole for Hovernnr In Mil
ocratlc. 2j,:ivI; Republican, 2
Plogreslc, H.Mtl.
riov
1M-
I trill.
.'.Dili .
Siirrounle Noble Lends In (oct lis,
In the ooiitest for Surro.r, to of
Queen county Daniel Noble, Demo
cratic candidate, led his opponent.
ThomnM !' Do)lc, at 3 o'clock this
morning, by 25,504, against SO.COf, votes.
Wilson Gets Only 20 Per Cent, of the
Bull Moose, a Minority of Suf
fragists, and Labor's Showing
Disappoints Him
KANSAS AND OHIO ARE
REPORTED TO BE DOUBTFUL
Results in Connecticut and Michigan Show
That the Munition Workers Did Not
Line Up for the President
Mr. Hughes is elected.
The returns at 3 A. M. indicate that he has carried twenty
four States and that he will have an electoral vote of 291.
Mr. Wilson seems to have carried twenty-two States with
an electoral vote of 206.
The States that Mr. Hughes appears surely to have carried
are California, Connecticut, Delaware, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana,
Iowa, Maine, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, New
Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, North Dakota, Oregon,
n t l 1 Tt 1 r. At. t, 1- .A- ir i t. . .
i rennsyivania, nnoae isiana, nouin uattoia, Vermont, vvasning-
ton, West Virginia, Wisconsin and Wyoming total, 291.
, The States that Mr. Wilson seems to have won are : Alabama,
Arizona, Arkansas, Colorado,
Louisiana, Maryland, Missouri, Mississippi, Montana, Nevada,
New Mexico, North Carolina, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Ten
nessee, Nebraska, Texas, Utah and Virginia total, 206.
These States Are in Doubt.
The States that are doubtful are Kansas and Ohio 37.
The first complete returns were from Connecticut, which
tucked herself in the Hughes column by 6,721. At 2:30 A. M.
Mr. Hughes's plurality in Massachusetts was figured as safely
12,000. Wisconsin gave at least 25,000 to the Republican can
didate. The beat estimates from California placed Hughes's
plurality at 40,000.
With the great mass of rural vote in Ohio still unrecorded,
Mr. Wilson was leading in that State, and the same was true
in Kansas. Kentucky had registered for the President by about
20,000. New York gave Hughes about an even 100,000. but this
was likely to grow.
Illinois plurality was even greater. Missouri remained in
doubt, with Mr. Wilson's lead being cut down by St. Louis.
With about half of Indiana counted Mr. Hughes had a lead of
8.000. Late returns from the State of Washington put Mr.
Wilson in the lead.
The Republican national headquarters absolutely claimed
Mr. Hughes's election. On the other hand the Democratic na
tional headquarters not only declined to concede the election of
Mr. Hughes, but asserted that Mr. Wilson had been reelected
with an electoral vote of 315. Democratic Chairman McCormick
did not include in this estimate the States of Massachusetts or
Connecticut.
Early in the nipht the election of Mr. Hughes seemeil so infallibly
indicated that concessions flowed from practically every Democratic
courco except the White House. Toward midnight there was an interest
ing tightening- up of tho situation in some States, ntoslly States that had
not hoen plnced certainly in the Hughes column, and this flurry greatly
encouriiRcil the Democratic leaders.
Massachusetts One of the Surprises.
There were also indications that the Republican pluralities in States
safely Republican, such as Massachusetts, would be cut to the hone, and
this further raised Democratic hopes. Massachusetts was one of tho
surprises of tho election. Tho President proved to lie unexpectedly
stronir in this normally Republican State.
Kansas appeared to he very much in doubt, though the Republicans
have been confident of carrying it. A swiriR to Wilson was indicated by
the vote in the Kansas cities, but the rural districts, regarded as Repub
lican, had not been heard from to any extent.
The situation in Ohio was the tensest it has been in years. Tho
President and Mr. Hughes were running neck and neck, Mr. Hughes
having carried Hamilton county and tho President hiiving won Cuyahoga
county. At 1 o'clock this morning the Republican State Chairman claimed
Ohio by 34,000.
Soon after midnight the Republican National Committee iiued a
statement claiming 284 votes certainly for Hughes, or eighteen more
than the majority necossary.
They claimed California, Connecticut, Delaware, Idaho, Illinois,
Indiana, Iowa, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, New Hump
..hire, New Jersey, New York, North Dakota, Oregon, Pennsylvania,
Rhode Island, South Dakota, Vermont, Washington. 'ot Virginia and
Wisconsin. Mr. Willcox stated IU0 votes would be for Hughes.
At tho Mime time Secretary Tumulty was stoutly asserting that tho
President had been reelected. He included Massachusetts, Connecticut
and California.
Wilson Got One-fifth of Bull Moose Vote.
It appears from a general survey of the result that the President
won over about 20 per cent, of the Progressive vote. In a few States
he did better than this, apparently, notably in Kansas, where tho Pro
gressives seemed pretty definitely to have followed Victor Murdock's
revolt. The Republican candidate for Governor, Capper, ran far ahead
of Mr. HtighcB, presumably because ho defended the President's Mexican
policy and some domestic policies.
On the other hand, in sotjie of the big doubtful States the Piesidont'a
support by Progrebsivcs was exceedingly disappointing to Democratic
hopes. Illinois and Indiana stand out as examples of how Progressives
in some States flocked back to the 0. O. P. standard. Indiana incrcastd
its Republican plurality considerably over the Taft year, 1908, and Mr.
Hughes obviously received practically the solid Roosevelt vtfte of 1912.
.
I
Florida, Georgia, Kentucky,
