rf
MARKETS
WEATHER
NEW YORK CITY
Average price of cop
per for week ending
Oct. 25, 27.25.
Arixona: Wednesday,
fair; Thursday, fair
and warmer.
Associated Press Special Leased Wire Service.
VQL. 19. NO! 131.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, WEDNESDAY MORNING, NOVEMBER 8, 1916.
GHES 1 CAMPBELL
BafM
.v m mm
Cinup
MEAGRE RETURNS S
CAMPBELL
IS STRON
ROW
BISBEE
RHU1T
Our Probable Next President--Charles . Hughes nr
Count Exceedingly Slow Coming In, Indicates Ashurst and Hayden
Are to Be Returned State Expected to Go for Wilson by Few
Hundred Votes Prohibition and Local Option Amendments
Appear Lost.
PHOENIX GIVES CAMPBELL LEAD OVER
- 1 IUNT, IN REPORTS ALL OVER STATE
Wright Is Leading Wheeler for Sheriff; High Is Ahead of Mc
Donald for Justice of Peace at Ixnvell Bert Policy Probably
Has Been Elected Constable Ward One Rolls Lp Lsual Bi
Vote for Hunt. .
PHOENIX, Nov. 8, 2:20 a. m. Twenty-seven of seveniy-elght precincts
in Maricopa county give Wilson 2,190; Hughes 1,738. Hunt for governor 1.714,
Campbell 2,716. ' t
Republican committee claims Campbell's election by 3,000. Democrats
claim 600 for Wilson.
At 2 o'clock this morning The Review made a poll of the four wards in
Bisbee and Lowell. In each case the returns were very incomplete, the vote
being about twenty per cent completed in the count. Out of 852 votes cast in
Ward One, 132 had been counted; out of 548 votes cast in Ward Two, 131 had
been counted; out of 798 votes cast in Ward Three, but 231 had been counted;
out of 447 votes cast in Ward Four, but 154 votes were counted.
In the Bve voting precincts, which Include Lowell, partially completed,
Hunt has 488 votes and Campbell 338; Ashurst has 489 votes and Kibbey 274;
Wright has 423 and Wheeler 386. In the four Bisb-e precincts. High, for
justice of the peace had 373 and McDonald 250. The contest for constable was
taken by Bert Polley, undoubtedly. A
Prom.' the figures to be had at 2 A. M. it would appear thafc -Hunt would
carry Bisbee by from 375 to 400 votes and would go out of the Warren District
with a lead of something near COO votes. Warren offset the heavy Lowell vote
to some extent and Campbell led Hunt in Don Luis by six. No figures were
obtainable at a late hour on Upper Lowell.
Ashurst has a long lead on Governor Kibbey for the senatorship in the
Warren District and promises to go out of the county with a considerable
majority.
The race between Wright and -
Wheeler is questionable. The fact
that Wright was leading the present
sheriff in Lowell, proper, is indicatory
tf a considerable majority for the
Eisbee man in the Warren District. In
the four precincts of Bisbee and Low
ell Wright was leading Wheeler by
- DEMOCRATS CLAIM .
277 ELECTORAL VOTES.
NEW YORK. Nov. 7. Vance
McCormick, chairman of the 1
Democratic national committee.
w
ETO
EDE DEFEAT: LUTE
I
VOTES I tl SOI!
! Whole of New England, New York, Illinois, Indiana and Pennsyl
vania Pile Up Pluralities for Hughes, Whose Backers Claim
Victory Both in Presidency and in Congress West and South
Going Strong for Wilson.
OHIO, CLAIMED BY BOTH, SEEMS
SWINGING INTO DEMOCRATIC COLUMN
On Face of Returns Now In, Democrats Lack About Fifteen
Electoral Votes Needed to Re-elect President Kansas, Wash
ington, Ltah and North Dakota l.ook to l avor Wilsor
California May Decide the Issue.
thirty seven. In six precincts heard at midnight claimed the election I
from in the county right was leading . ot president Wilson by 277 votes i
Wheeler by fifty liine votes.
If the same ratio ot results is main
tained in Bisbee, Judge High will be
elected to the office of justice of the
pace over Rod McDonald by several
hundred votes. As far as the poll was
made High . led McDonald by 123
Votes.
Little accurate information came 7&
from other parts of the county. Up to
a late hour the results of many pre
cincts in this region were lacking.
Those to be had, however, complete,
including Pairbank, Curtis, Robinson, '
St. David, McNeal, Don Luis, Douglas
3, DDuglas 4 and Warren (only on the
governorship) gave Campbell 781 and
Hunt 631.
SLOW IN PIMA
TUCSON, Nov. 7. Five county pre
cincts complete and partial count in
the five Tucson precincts give the fol
lowing results:
Hughes 752; Wilson 740; For U. S.
senator Ashurst 356; Kibbey 426.
For congress: Hayden 418; Eads
375; For governor: Campbell 508;
Hun 362.
The prohibition amendment lost by
a narrow majority, as did the initia
ted tolcal option bill. At Ajo, largest
Pima county precinct outside of Tuc
son, the count will not be completed
before tomorrow. For supreme judge
Ross, incumbent, and Baushn are run
ning neck and neck.
Count very slow.
in the electoral college.
"Our reports received up to
midnight," said Chairman Mc-
Cormick, "showed that the Presi-
dent had received certainly 270
electoral votes, not including
Massachusetts and Connecticut
or California or other far west-
ern states yet to be heard from."
Illinois Gives
100,000 to Hughes
CHICAGO, Nov. 7. Returns re
ceived by 9:15 o'clock tonight indi
cate a Republican victory in Illinois
by a plurality estimated by Republi
cans at more than 100,000 for Hughes
and slightly smaller plurality for the
Republican state ticket, headed by
Frank D. Lowden for governor.
The race in Chicago, however, was
close. The vote was heavy. Women
voted for the first time in Illinois on
the presidential iBsue.
S Till FIVE CARRIED DOWN
TO DEATH WHEN GAR PLUNGES
Protection 'of American rights
upon land and sea. '
Protective tariff.
Equal suffrage throughout the
nation.
Industrial as well as military
preparedness.
A navy adequate to protect
American coast and possessions.
Merit system of civil service.
A cabinet whose personnel
shall be drawn fijm the ablest
men in the nation.
Machinery to develop interna-
tional co-operation in resorting
to tribunals and councils.
Adequate preparation for ag-
gressive commercial policies after
the war.
Protection of children from
entering I'jo early in industrial
struggles.
More business-like administra
tion. Such a policy toward Mexico
as will accomplish results, al-
though this policy may mean re-
course to intervention.
Determination to maintain the
OPEJ,' DOOR policy in China.
(By Review Leased Wire)
NEW YORK, Nov. 8. At 3 o'clock Mr. McCormick grew even more opti
mistic with regard to President Wilson's chances, saying that he would re
ceive 291 electoral votes as against 240 for Mr. Hughes.
Democratic committees from all parts of the country, said Mr. McCormick.
had finished their figures, told him that the President's chances for reelection
were brighter.
At Republican headquarters Chairman Willcox said he did not desire to
change his previous estimates.
NEW YORK, Nov. 8. At an early hour this morning Democratic Chair
man McCormick was claiming at least 268 votes for President Wilson in the
electoral college and the Republican Chairman claimed 317. Each was claim
ing Kentucky, Kansas, Montana, Nebraska and Washington.
Missouri, Indiana, West Virginia, Arizona, and Delaware were leaning
toward Hughes.
Chairman McCormick, however, claimed the President could have a ma
jority of two votes in the electoral college without carrying California, Indiana.
North and South Dakota, West Virginia or Wisconsin from which return
were far from complete, showing a Republican trend. The early morning
returns came in slowly. Manager sof both parties were anxiously watching
Ohio and both were claiming victory. As the hours dragged on it came more
and more evident that it would be a close election and there were possibilities
that in some places it might be necessary to resort to official counts to de
termine the result.
Republicans, however, definitely have carried New England states. New
j York, Illinois, Indiana. Pennsylvania, the last four by pluralities of 100,000 or
better in each case.
Washington, Kansas. Montana and Utah, claimed by both parties, were
leading for Wilson, but it appears doubtful if these would be sufficient to give
the Democrats a victory. North Dakota, however, counted on by Republicans
until early this morning, appeared to be swerving into the Democratic column
as returns from the rural districts continued to ocme in.
The election promises to be one of the closest ever waged in the nation,
with a record-breaking vote.
The complexion of the next congress is still in doubt. Both parties are
claiming control, but any decision this morning is impossible.
(By Review Leased Wire)
BOSTON, Nov. 7. The lives of
1 35 to 40 persons were lost tonight
when a crowded passenger car of
the Boston Elevated Street Rail
way plunged through an open
drawbridge into Fort Point Chan
nel, just outside the South Sta
tion Terminal. Twelve other per
sons were rescued from the water
by fire boats. Oneman, Thomas
j
J. Gannon, died afte rbeing taken
to shore. Two bodies were found
with grappling irons, but the re
covery of other bodies was delay
ed as it was believed they were
pinned in the car which rested on
the bottom of the Channel, 35 feet
deep.
Gerald Walsh, motorman of the
car jumped before it went over the
edge of the draw,
i FRENCH CAPTURE WILSON SMILES
F
CARRANZA WONT RESIGN.
ELECTION CLOSE AT MIDNIGHT
W
MILES
WON T CONCEDE
DEFEAT
BANDS GATHER AT HOME
OF HUGHES TO CELEBRATE.
NEW YORK. Nov. 7. A crowd
of thousands with brass bands
gathered in the hotel where Mr.
UTAH FOR WILSON.
SALT LAKE, Nov. 7. Glen Miller,
Republican state chairman, said to
night: President Wilson has carried the
state by more than five thousand and
Hughes was staying and at 11 indications are that Senator Suth
o'clock sent up a committee to "rland is beaten. We hope to save the
request the nominee
before them.
Mr. Hughes sent back word that j WASHINGTON FOR WILSON
he appreciated the request but SEATTLE. Nov. 7. Returns from
did not wish to appear until the , 566 precincts of 2.3S5 in Washington
result was demonstrated beyond . give Hughes 46,329; Wilson 51.302.
duubt. i
l CALIFORNIA IM nnilBT
SAN FRANCISCO. Nov. 7. Gover-
to appear i governor.
Republicans Sweep
(By Review Leased Wire.)
LONG BRANCH. Nov. 7. President
Wilson went to bed at 12:30 o'clock
(By Review Leased Wire)
NEW YORK, Nov. 7. Just before
midnight the election returns still in-
MEXICO CITY. Nov. 7. General
VomiRfinnn Pnrrnn-ya onnnnn rn
the Associated Press today that he con'Plete in niany 8tates- indicated the
would not resign as first chief because elpction of Hughes and Fairbanks, but
of his candidacy for the presidency, the figures were very close and the
1 wo Villages and a Cernctary,
Together With 500 or More
German Prisoners Are Report- lie left word, however, that if really
e. fulfil ml definite returns were received during
the night he should be awakened.
He said, however, that If he regarded Democratic manager steadfastly re- j in the White House,
it as advisable he would withdraw fused to concede a Republican victory. Just after n o'cmh-k Republican
from his official post just before the . Although the metropolitan news- headquarters absolutely claimed Con
ceptions. I papers which have supported Presi-1 necticut, Delaware, Illinois, Indiana,
General Carranza added that up to dent Wilson conceded his defeat, the J Maine, Massachusetts, Michigan, New
the present time the relations between Democratic managers insisted that i Hampshire, New Jersey, New York,
Mexico and the United States had not complete returns fi'om the west would I Oregon, Pennsylvania. Rhode Island,
been strained. 'reverse the trend which steadily' (Continued on Page Five.)
column. I I'AKIb. Nov. 7. The French tookj LONG BRANCH, Nov. 7. As late
seemed to be piling up for the Hughe's German positions on a front of four ! reports came to the executive offlrcs
"Remember 1892." was the predic- kilometers (two and one Jialf miles) ' by telephone and telegraph nd from
tion of the Democratic publicity extending from Cliaulnes wood to the local Democratic leaders in various
bureau, which pointed out that in that southeast of Albaincourt refinery, says Mates, the hopes of the President and
memorable contest the next day's re- the. official communication issued by those who were with him grew,
vised returns placed Grover Cleveland the war office tonight. The villages Stronger claims were made that on
of Ablaincourt and Pressoire and Ab- the final count Mr. Wilson would win
lainrourt cemetery were captured.
More than 500 prisoners were taken.
LONG BRANCH. Nov. 7. Apparent
ly the President was the most cheer-
DENVER, Nov. 8. Partial returns, ; fill person here. Those who talked
larpely from Denver, enrly today in- j with him said he showed irti impat
dicated the defeat Vif the "beer amend-1 ience. He bean receiving returns
r
-1
j nor Hiram W. Johnson was elected
to the Senate from California today
I K .. . . Y. I -
p) r iuiuiuroif majority esiimatea
Pennsylvania, du j fcy his fr,nds i8n 200.000
J?nrk pi f. ' At midnight the state belonged to
200.000 rLUTalitU liuhB or Wil8on- the face of
' I available returns, with Los Anselea
and San Francisco counties virtually
unreported.
Returns from SS0 precincts of 5.917
give Hughes 29.137; Wilson 30.5S4.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
PHILADELPHIA, Nov. 7. Early re
turns from Pennsylvania Indicate that
Charles E. Hughes has carried th1
state by about 200,000 plurality and
that the Democrats apparently will
not increase their representation of
six in Congress.
Philander C. Knox was elected to
NEW MEXICO IN DOUBT
ALBUQUERQUE, Nov. 7 With re
turns from few precincts and those
widely scattered it was uncertain at
! midnight whether the
the senate by the Republicans. The i ""u"1"1 Kepunncans
entire state ticket was successful bv ' " N' had ""ied the state.
a plurality a little less than that tr , ....-u buu. mr parties
HuKhes.
Illinois Governor
Concedes Defeat
running fairly even.
MICHIGAN FOR HUGHES
DETROIT. Nov. 7. Seven hundred
and fifty Michigan precincts gie to
Hughes 109.453; Wilson 94.400.
CHICAGO, Nov. 7. Governor Dunn.
NEW JERSEY FOR HUGHES
TRENTON, N. J . Nov. 7 Five hun
j ment" by a vote of two to one.
(Continued on Page Five.)
Democrat, tonight conceded his de- dred and ninetv nine districts out of
fent in a telegram of congratulation 1.S93 in New Jersey give Wilson 57,
to his Republican opponent. Colonel 0S2; Hughes 67.595.
Frank O. Lowden, former member of j Returns from 4S6 districts give Mar
congress. j tine 34.229; Frelinghuysen 43,228.
