"Pleasure comes through toil
and not by indulgence and indo
lence. Ruskin"
Go often to the house of. thy
friend, for weeds choke up the un
used path,'' Scandinavian Edda.
VOL. XXXVI, NO. 6
MORRISVILLE, VERMONT, WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1916.
$1.25 A TEAR
mil
A K . ' ' '
7arnii
'5
:
Tbe United States
Ohrysotlle As
bestos Company
will not recognk "ty bills unlesB the
goods ordered art red by an order
properly signed and handed to onr
man for onr approval v.
V. S. CHRYSOTILE ASBk ' COMPANY.
John Ferla, Vice-President.
WANTED !
White Ash, Elm Logs and
all kinds of Pulp Wood.
For prices and cutting
instructions, write
. C. H. DAVIS,
ST. JOHNSBURY, VT.
WOODMEN
ENTERTAINMENT
Tbe Modern Woodmen of America
-will give ao Bntertainmet in the
Town Hall tomorrow evening,
NOVEMBER 9
beginning at 8 o'clock.
Music, Singing and Speeches will be
furnished by local talent.
Neighbor Palmer, of Burlington,
will give aa interesting talk.
A lecture will be given by Mr. Geo.
W. Riley, of Danville, 111., the Na
tional Lecturer of the organization.
Do not fail to hear this noted speak
er on a popular and interesting sub
ject.
Teams from neighboring Camps
will be present in uniform, and re
freshments will be served to Wood
men at the close of the meeting.
The public is invited to the enter
tainment. Admission free.
BUSINESS NOTICES.
Noticb The return of the Hern taken from
my place will save costs, W. M. Gibbs.
For Sale Two Houses in Hyde Park Vil
lage; also, Small Farm, 75 acres.
Box 76, Hyde Park, Vt.
For Sale. One Second-hand Remington
Typewriter. Price, $15.00.
H. Waits & Son, Morrisville.
Cash Paid. Highest Cash Price paid for
Calves, Cheap Cows, Bulls and Hogs.
Tel. 1 24-3 1 John Miner, Hyde Park.
. Notice. I will sell one four-months-old Colt,
at Auction, in front of Johnson Hotel, Saturday,
Nov. 11, at 2 p. m. 0. B. Landon.
Lost: Deposit Book No. 12038 issued by the
Lamoille County Savings Bank & Trust Co., De
cember 31, 1913. Finder will please return book
to the Bank ar to the owner.
Wanted. A large stock Fire Insurance Com
pany desires representatives in Hyde Park, Mor
risville and other towns where not now represent
ed. Box 317, Montpelier, Vermont.
Apples. We shall have a car of Fancy Bal
dwin Apples within a few days. You can save
something by placing your order now and having
tnem delivered direct trom the car.
Strong & Goddard, Hyde Park.
For Sale. One Glenwood Coal Parlor Heat
er; 1 Parlor Stove, coal or wood; a Mattreses. fin
est quality black curled hair, perfect condition
an assortment 01 Beds, Bedding, (.hairs, Crock
ery, Kitchen Ware, etc; 1 Winchester Rifle, 15
apeciai. most reasonaDieprices.
W. r. Benson, Morrisville.
THE ELECTION
looks like: hughes, but is
DOUBTFUL
Depends upon tne vote o
California and Minnesota
Oemocrats Claim Wilson Is the
Winner
THE ECONOMY STORE
We're showing a new lot of
Crashes and Mercerized Linens for
Table Cloths. Also, Huck, Linen
and Turkish Towels just received,
that are especially good values.
Turkish Towels at 30c the usual
price would be 50c for this size.
Special Bargains each Saturday.
Watch for our Christmas Line.
MRS. 0. M. TAYLOR
Champeau Block, Morrisville, Vermont
see: here
Big domand for Old Iron and All Kinds
of Junk. Bring it to Depot and get the
Highest Gash Price.
OSCAR KAHN
Morrisville's Original Junk Man
Telephone, 25-5. Lake Street, Morrisville Vt.
MORRISVILLE
"Who's Who?"
"Did you ever ?"
Mr. and Mrs. J. L. Goodkin were in
Burlington over Sunday.
Harold Battye has commenced work
as carder man at the Munson store.
Mrs. Lucy A. Robinson went Friday
to Montpelier for a two weeks' stay
with relatives.
Frank Decell resumed work for Mrs
Caroline Powers Monday, after a five
weeks' vacation.
Erie Morrill was in Johnson several
days the past week, a guest of his aunt
Mrs. Charles Gates.
Mr. and Mrs. Fred Spaulding, wJio
have been in Bristol, Conn., for the past
two months, returned last Friday.
Mrs. Addie Goodrich and granddaugh
ters, Addie and Mildred, were guests Sat
urday of Mr. and Mrs. Rufus Montague.
Miss Cora Dutton has rented the upper
tenement in the Leland Ring house on
Olive street and moved there last week.
Rev. W. E. Baker was in Greensboro
Friday night, where he addressed the
young men's class of the church that
evening.
Mr. and Mrs. H. L. Porter of Johnson
were guests over Sunday at the home of
their daughter, Mrs. Orrin Jones at
Cadys Falls.
Mrs. Maro Churchill and son Ellis of
Graniteville are guests at the home of
Mr. Churchill's parents, Mr. and Mrs.
W. J. Churchill.
AT SALEEBY'S
T
NOW
goods
by
You can realize some great savings on
your Winter Clothing, while we have the
s at the old prices. Nothing is gained
waiting. Our Stock is now at its
best and your selection can be made very
easily.
Great assortment in Women's Suits and
Coats, Dresses, Skirts, Men's and Boys'
Clothing and Furnishings. Also Foot
wear for Men, Women and Children.
Gome and Make Your
Savings
A. J. SALEEBY
THE STORE THAT SAVES jYOU MONEY."
JOHNSON. j$ j VERMONT
The election yesterday is a peculiar af
fair. First returns gave Hughes a large
vote and the city papers of all parties
conceded his election giving him an elec
toral vote of over 300. Late returns, how
ever, have changed, this and at this time,
3 p.m., Wednesday, the result is in doubt
in fact it is said that all hinges on Oali
fornia the returns from the several dis
tricts in that state coming in very slow,
first the Democrats claim it and then the
Republicans. It may take the official
count to say "Who's Who."
Late returns show that Hughes carries
Vermont by about 25000 majority. The
Legislature as usual will be overwhelm
ingly Republican. ;
Lamoille County makes a good show
ing tor tne Republican ticket giving
Hughes 950 plurality.
For Governor Graham has 1128 plu
rality and Page for U. S. Senator has
1477 plurality,
Hardwick elects J. B. Hooper, Demo
crat, as Representative.
St. Johnsbury elects a Democratic Rep
resentative, Unas. Whitney.
Linus Leavens for State Senator has
a plurality of 1125.
The Very Latest
A dispatch from the St. Albans Mes
senger at 3 o'clock says that Chairman
McCommick of the Democratic National
Committee claims Wilson's election he
having 288 electorial votes. He claims
tbe solid South and 18 states besides and
says "it is a sweeping victory for the
Democracy."
The Republican National Oommittee
say the election is still in doubt that if
the Bepublicans carry California and
Minnesota which are very close, Hughes
is elected.
The Associated Press will make no
statement at this time, they are awaiting
tbe official count of the doubtful states.
So there you have it, just as it is !
Election In Morrisville
The election in Morrisville did not
bring out as many voters as usual, the
total number of votes counted for Repre
sentative being 505, with about thirty
spoiled ones. E. A. Smalley, the Repub-
lican candidate won on the first ballot.
vote standing as follows : Smalley 277,
Smith, Independent, 157, Thomas, Dem
ocrat, 71.
In the evening about two hundred
townspeople, including many ladies,
called at the home of Representative
elect Smalley and headed by the Morris
vine Military tsana gave nun a rousing
serenade. Mr. Smalley welcomed the
visitors and in well chosen words thanked
his friends for their generous suonort
Refreshments of bananas, grapes and
cigars were passed. From there a large
delegation went to the office of State's
Attorney Maurice, where they congratu
lated him on his election. Mr. Maurice
made appropriate remarks and passed
the cigars. Geo. E. Towne was also vis
ited and passed the cigars.
The next place's visited were the rooms
of the Pastime Club and the Bijou, where
returns were received until a late hour.
The Biion was crowded until after ten
o'clock.
Deer Season Begins Nov. 15
The Deer season begins Wednesday,
Nov. 15. Hunters will do well to ob
serve tbe following laws: Wild Deer
having horns not less than three inches
in length may be taken froth Nov. 15th
to Dtcember 5th after 5 a. m. and before
5 p. m., both dates inclusive, Sundays ex
cepted.
A person may take one such wild Deer
in an open season. He shall promptly
report such taking and exhibit the ani
mal's head to the nearest Fish and Game
Warden, or to some person deputized by
the Commissioner to receive such report.
County Game Warden J. T. Stevens
has appointed tbe following Deputy
Wardens: '
Belvidere E. S. Campbell, H. A.SIayton,
j. K. McLuin. ; -
Cambridge A. B..Sinclair, W. M. Smith,
F. A. Plummet. ,
Eden F. P. Collins, Leon Campbell,
' Eugene Marcres. !
Elmore H. E. Hall, W. S. Silloway.
Hyde Park P. A. Parrin, E. A. Combs,
J. T. Stevens.
Johnson J. D. Odell.
Morristown J. R.Parker, H. L. Stevens,
M. W. Uarleton.
Stowe N. B. Chapin, F; E. Stafford.
Waterville G. H. Beard.
Wolcott R. M. Hubbeil, A. S. Bruce.
Hagar Russell
Last Thursday evening at the home of
Mrs. Nellie Russell on Laporte road oc
curred the mar'riage of her daughter,
Miss Glenna E. Russell, and Joseph J.
Hagar of Penns Grove, N. J. The Rev.
R. D. Oranmer of the Universalist church
officiated, the ceremony being performed
in the presence of only the immediate
family of the bride and a few near rela
tives. The bridal couple stood under an
arch of evergreen in the parlor and were
attended by Miss Gladys St. Louis and
Nason Russell, a brother of the bride.
Following the eeremony Mr. and Mrs.
Hagar left by auto, with C. E. Cox as
chauffeur, for Wolcott, where they took
tbe train for a few days' visit with
friends in St. Johnsbury and other points,
after which they returned to Morrisville,
where 'Mrs. Hagar will remain until she
completes her school in the Moiristown
Plains district. Mr. Hagar has returned
to Penn Grove, where he is superinten
dent of a department in a munition
plant, and where they will reside.
The bride is one of Morrisville s highly
esteemed and popular young ladies. She
has always resided here. She graduated
from Peoples Academy in the class of
1913 and since that time has been a suc
cessful teacher in the public schools in
Moiristown' and vicinity. Congratula
tions and best wishes are extended from
a host of friends.
THE EARLE STORE
"'BMHWIMMSSVnHMMMMMSMMHBHMHHSiSiMilMHMilliMHSSHMHSI. 4
New Arrivals This Week
We have just been to New York for our Fall and Win
ter Goods and are showing many attractive articles lor
the house and Ladies' arid Misses' wear.
Among the new things is our grrat assortment of Hand
kerchiefs one of tbe most complete lines we have ever
shown in plain and fancy patterns.
A very handsome line of Dress Goods, including the
pretty Ottoman cloths in green, blue, bergundy and black;
some very handsome Plaids in the new Fall shades; Gabar
dines and many other popular fabrics
Table Line ns, Napkins, Linen Scar6ng,Lioens for guest
towels and tray cloths
A large assortment of Scrims for. window curtains
in ivory and ecru. Also, some of the prettiest Curtains
made up from Scrims and -Marquisette.
Another new lot of Ladies' Shirt Waists in the latest
styles, including black wash Silk Waists, and black Poplins.
We also are showing tbe Heavy Flannel for farmers
use, suitable for lining your fur coat, making frocks and
overalls for Winter. It wears.
i
Just come in and see tbe new things in all departments,
Morrisville,
GEORGE F. EARLE
Vermont
- C. LXJCS CO
PORTLAND STREET, M0RRISVIILE, VERMONT.
Leather and Shoes
T
HE situation in the leather market is not favorable to the
ouyer. The war shoulders the blame. . Many manufac
facturers, especially those of Women's Shoes, are wiring;,
ADVANCE IN PRICES.
High Leather makes High Shoes.
We have just received the balance of our Oueen Oualitv
Shoes. Having; placed our order early in the Soring' for our
Fall Shoes, you will find our prices right.
Mrs. E. G. Peoand Mr, and Mrs. Mark
Brown of Concord, N. H., arrived Satur
day to visit Mr. and Mrs. David Brown
and Mr. and Mrs. William Peo.
Miss Clossie Clark, who has been
spending some time with her parents,
Mr. and Mrs. Lyman Clark, has gone to
Boston, where she has a position.
Misses Dorothy Small and Lefa Nay
have opened a dancing class for beginners
at the G. A. R. hall. They ha ve a kinder
garten class from five until six and older
pupils later in the evening.
L. R. Page took the household goods
of Averill Alexander to Barre in his auto
truck last Saturday. He returned by
way of Waterbury and brought a load of
furniture for Herbert Farnham.
II. A. Slay ton has purchased a new
twelve cylinder Packard. The car is a
beauty and was shown here last week by
Robert Wakefield of St. Johnsbury, Ver
mont salesman and demonstrator for
tbe Packard people, A. H. Slayton's
Oakland was taken in the deal and A. II.
basthe Pope-Hartford of H. A. Slay too.
Town Representatives
Belvidere, E. S. Campbell, Republican.
Cambridge, Charles Bellows, Republican.
Eden, Harry Hinds, Republican.
Elmore, Henry Hall, Republican.
Johnson, H. O. Stiles, Republican.
Hyde Park, Dennis Finnegao.Democratlc,
Moiristown, Elmer A. Smalley, Repub
lican.
Stowe, H. E. Pike, Republican, by almost
unamlnous vote.
Waterville, George Beard, Republican.
Woloott, George T. Allen, Republican.
The following Justices were elected
A. A. Nile, L. S. Small, Austin Wilkins,
W. 3. Newton, D. N. Uutohins, J. H,
Atnhinson. G. I. A. Smith. D. A. La-
Fountain, A. H. Calkins, C. H. Herrick.
Oa one ballot only the name of D. X.
Hutching was voted and the voter signed
bis name on the back.
Men's Department
We are prepared for the cold weather with a complete line
of Bennington Underwear, Johnson Pants, Flannel Shirts,
Mackinaws, Sweaters and B. F. Goodrich HIPRESS Rubbers.
Union Service
Next Sunday evening, Nov. 12, at 7:30
o'clock at the Advent Christian church
there will be a union service of the
churches under the aupices of the W. C.
T. U. with an address by Rev. W. E.
Baker, who has so many times proven
his efficiency for speaking on the import
ant and vital topic of Temperance.
There will be additional features of in
terest such as vocal and instrumental
music. Arrange to attend this service;
tell your friends and neighbors of it and
prove your interest in the welfare of hu
manity by your influence and presence.
Brotherhood Banquet
The annual banquet of the Methodist
Brotherhood will be held in tbe church
parlors next Tuesday evening at eight
o'clock. A very fine literary and musical
program has been prepared for the occa
sion. Speakers of State and county repu
tation will have part in the program.
The banquet will be prepared by the
ladies of the church and served by tne
voung men. Governor Graham will be
the guest of the evening.
HYDE PARK
Mrs. Delia Shattuck is home from
Grand Isle for a month's visit.
Fred Gale of Chicago was in town yeS'
terday, returning home from the funeral
of a relative in Massachusetts.
Irwin Foster of Essex Junction has pur
chased the Hogaboom place in Greenfield
and will move thereon shortly.
Mrs. Abbie Fletcher of Springfield,
Mass., was a guest of Mrs. Eva Boyes
and other friends in town tbe past week.
Election returns were received at the
Hyde Park Inn last evening. A large
number were present and enjoyed this
courtesy of the landlord.
The Ladies' Aid sale and entertainment
was a great success. Theycleared about
$90. Especial mention should be made
of the tableaux vivant, which consisted
of female characters representing foreign
nationalities. "The smile that wouldn't
come off" was an especially attractive
feature.
Fred A. White, a former employe of this
office, but for the past fourteen years in
the government printing office at Wash
ington, is in town for a short time. He
retains bis voting residence here and
comes "home" once in four vearsto vote.
He has an important position in the job
department of the U. S. printing office.
Next lecture in tbe course comes next
Monday night. Sumayeh Attiyeh is the
attraction do not miss it.
Hyde Park Election
The attendance at the election at Hyde
Park yesterday was good, but about 100
votes short of the full check list. There
was considerable strife in the balloting
for Representative. The Republicans had
an exemplary young man as its candi
date Rollo W. Crocker.
In tbe Democracy they put up a strong
man and had a good organization, in
fact they worked harder and had a better
organization than did their opponents.
Hyde Park is a Republican town, but in
this case party lines were disregarded
and many who call themselves Republi
cans voted for the Democratic nominee.
However, Mr. Crocker had a good
vote. The result of the first ballot was a
tie, each receiving 141 votes, with a few
scattertng. The second ballot resulted in
a victory for Finnegan, he receiving 144
against 129.
Mr. Finnegan in a neat speech promis
ed to work for the best interests of his
town and there is no doubt but that be
will. He is a farmer, 3S years old, a
native of this town and a young man of
ability. We bespeak for him a good ac
count of bis stewardship at Montpelier.
II Nfc
Calls special attention to the New Line of
Men's and Boy's Heavy Rubbers just receiv
ed. High one, low ones, black ones, white
ones, red ones, from which to choose, giving
you tbe largest possible return for your
money. Our line of Men's Fall and Winter
Caps is a smart one. Toques for Boys 50c,
Toques for Women 25 and 35c. Too. cannot
Ida comfortably withort on. Up-to-date
Toque bets, which combine both stvle and
warmth, priced 50c, (1.00 and 2.23. We sell
Pillsburya Flour. Vot about Pure Boneless
Cod, S lb, for 25o. Grapes, Celery, Dates,
Figs, Uaoanas,
Saturday.
Oranges, Oysters, etc,
Rargain Day Specials, Saturday, Xor. lltli, Only:
Buckwheat Flour 9o a package, Purity Peas 00, Tickles 9c, Jelly 9s, Rex Catsup 90,
Turkish Towels 2 for 25c, Ladies' Fleece-Lined Stockings I pra. for 25c.
Come in and look around.
A. J. CLAKIC, Hyde l'tit-lc.
