4-
The intelligent, common sense
workingmen prefer to deal with the
problems of today, with which they
must contend if they want to make
advancements rather than to deal
with a picture or a dream.—Gom
pers.
VOL. 23, NO. 35.
[Declare It Will Not Cost $100,
000,000 a Year to Grant
Demands.
^PENAIJgjT ON OVERTIME
ABUSE
Railroad Brothernoj5f%
Strong- Statement in Defense
of Eight-Hour Day.
CLE VELAD, Ohio, April C.—It has
been repeatedly affirmed by the rail
way officials that, if the demand by
the Transporation Brotherhoods for
1
an eight hour day was granted, it
would cost the roads $100,000,000.00
annually. The four employes' or
sanitations, involved have challenged
this statement, but the officials have
never yet presented any detailed lig
ures to prove how they arrive at that
exact sum. They simply make it
one hundred million and let it go at
that.
An evidence of the fact that rail­
way officials know it would not mean
any considerable increase of wages to
the men, the Missouri, Kansas &
Teaxas Railway company, in a letter
addressed to its trainmen, enginemen,
yardmen and hostlers, signed by W.
A. Webb, chief operating officer,
states:
Would Avoid Overtime.
"The feature of payment of time
and one-half for overtime would
cause the railroads to avoid all over­
time payment possible. Our overtime
now amount to more than seven per
rent of the total wages of train and
enginemen, consequently the average
pay of employes in that service is 107
per cent of what it would be were no
overtime earned. It is true you
would earn a minimum day's pay in
some instances in two hours' less
time, than at present, but the likeli­
hood of your earning in excess of a
minimum day's pay would be remote."
The contention in favor of an eight
hour day has all along been that if a
penalty was fixed on the use of over­
time the railroads would see to it that
there would be little or no overtime.
The railroad officials also contend
that it would be impossible to reduce
the running time so that a division
would be covered in eight hours.
No Additional Labor.
During''the recent arbitration ctlse
between Western railroads and their
engineers and firemen, the railroads
presented elaborate exhibite which
1
showed that the average time of 78
per cent of through or irregular
freight service on all railroads west of
the Mississippi river in October, 191 r,
between terminals of 112 miles apart
was S hours and 24 minutes. Trans
portation employes, therefore, in al­
most four-fifths of the through or
irregular freight service in the West,
which constituted about three-fifths
of all freight train mileage, do pro­
duce their 100 miles, the standard for
a day's pay, within 7 hours and 30
minutes. It would follow, according
to those sworn statements of the rail­
roads, that on slightly less than half
of the freight traffic of the West the
adoption of the 8-hour day would re­
quire no additional labor outlay.
Additional outlay wonld, probaply by
necessary for the adoption of an eight
"hour day on only one-fifth of the
through freight service in the West.
No overtime at an advance of 50 per
cent over regular rates, however,
would be paid as the traffic would
probably be sent over the heavy divis­
ions in lighter trains at a speed of
12% miles an hour. Under any
change in operating conditions which
might occur, the increase in the total
pay roll of the western railroads
would be very small.
Insincerity of Figures.
These sworn statements prove the
insincerity of the figures now being
used by the railroad officials in an
attempt to prejudice the public
against the fair and reasonable de­
mand for an eight hour day for train
service employes.
In their statements issued to the
Continued on Page 2.
(BY FRANK REXEY).
Years ago, when the workers of the
world were steeped in misery and ig­
norance deeper than they are today,
there was an exceptional class of
workers, held by their necessities in
bondage, whose cries for succor were
unheeded and whose sufferings were
regarded when they reached the ears
of the ordinarily humane as the mere
natural outcome of their employment.
Years rolled on, bringing to them
little if any relief.
Flogged and Managlcd.
These were the men "who went
down to the sea in ships" to be
flogged and manacled and starved
and to die, that men on land might
wallow in luxury, feasting upon the
"fruits of the sailors' labor, carried
from distant climes, the result of
privations and hardships which they
endured. They were sailor men, and
few in those distant days gave ear or
sympathy to the tales of woe of the
poor sailor. Their duties at sea were
and still are onerous and hard, their
eward thanklessness and oblivion.
Gradually, as civilization developed
nd education became diffused, the
reatment meted the sailor began,, tit­
le by little, to receive the attention
THEDE'S NO
THE
Founder of Pensions for Widowed
Mothers Discuss Great
Question.
$10,000,000 WAS PAID
IN MOTHERS' PENSIONS
Opponents Wage Same Opposition
Against Establishing Free
Public Schools.
11V JUDGE HENRY NEIL.
(Father of the Mothers' Pension)
(The Labor World's Special Service)
(This article, with others similar,
arc written on the text of the bill
introduced by Senator Kenyon and
Representative Keating, for a fed­
eral commission to study and report
on child poverty.)
Eight hundred million dollars col­
lected by taxation was spent in the
United States last year to maintain
institutions for dependents and de­
fectives, more than double the cost
of ten years ago.
Seven hundred and fifty million
dollars' collected by taxation was
spent for free public schools in the
United States last year.
First Free School.
In 1829, in the city of Philadelphia,
some public-spirited citizens at­
tempted to organize a meeting to
promote the idea of free public
schools, to be supported by general
taxation, beaten, thrown into prison,
called anarchists and undesirables.
Some property owners said it was
confiscation to tax one man's pro­
perty to pay for the education of
another man's children.
It has since been thoroughly demon­
strated that free public schools are
the most beneficial of all tax-sup­
ported institutions.
As to Mothers' Pensions.
"Last year over $10,000,000, was
paid in mothers' pensions in the
twenty-six states now operating this
system of abolishing child-poverty.
Congressman Keating and Senator
Kenyon have introduced into the
house and senate of the United States
a joint resolution to authorize the
president to appoint a commission to
inquire into the causes of child
poverty and suggest remedies there­
for.
This commission will find some
way .to. abolish child-poverty and
thereby save the taxpayers millions
of dollars and will also find a way
to save the great waste of child life.
Half of the children born of
parents who are poor, die before
they reach school age, six years.
Child Poverty Avoidable.
This, the richest country in the
world blessed with abundant natural
resources and a power of produc­
tion unequaled in the history of the
human race, can abolish child
poverty and at the same time save
taxpayers millions of dollars now be­
ing spent to care for dependents and
defectives who have been ruined by
child-poverty.
Those surviving child-poverty are
the weak (physically, mentally and
morally) who will fill our jails and
asylums.
I now ask every partriotie citizen
to write to his congressman and ask
for a copy of this resolution (known
as H. I. Res. 142) and then to ask
his senators and congressmen to aid
in this attempt to improve the health
and happiness of the children of our
country.
NEW YORK MAY HAVE
STATE CONSTABULARY
ALBANY, X. Y. April 6.—A
mounted state eonstabary to relieve
I the natioral guard from strike duty
was urged at a conference in Gover
nor Whitman's office by a delegation
that insisted that the state "should
lift the restriction that now keeps so
many of the young men out of the
malitia." It is stated that Governor
Whitman suggested a state police bill
be introduced in the legislature to
"test public opinion."
of the boldest enemies of human op­
pression.
When an act of brutality startled
the community, first hearing it out
of their lethargy because it was worse
and greater than the one preceding
it, the pioneers of equal justice
aroused them to vigorous protests
against their continuance and eventu­
ally made an impression.
What England Did.
The hatred against wrong, once
voiced, spread and steadily grew
stronger, until Mr. Plimsoll,, in the
British Parliament, assuming the role
of champion of the British sailor,
succeeded in having laws made put­
ting an end in great measure to con­
tinuation of high-sea horrors. These
laws did not bestow upon the sailor
all the rights which naturally be­
longed to him, but they did ac­
knowledge ho should be considered a
human being and not a dog. Simul
taniously with the passage of the
Plimsoll laws there was establish.:l in
every principal British seaport a
Sailors' Home. Tl-cse homes did
more to protect the sailor from the
machinations of the boardinghouse
keepers than any other agency then
in operation and, as they were under
government supervision and were
.'v
U.S.
It-
Duluth's laborers are awakening. Last Thursday
evening a large meeting was held at Bricklayers' hall
and steps were taken to launch a big federal labor union
to consist of all wage earners who are not eligible to
membership in any existing trade union.
The interest shown in the proposed organization ahd
the enthusiasm exhibited indicates that a flourishing
union will be on its way by the time the Labor Forward
Movement is in full swing.
If the present plans of President E. G. Hall of the
State Federation of Labor materialize there will be at
least three big federal labor unions in the city one up­
town, the second in the West End and the third in West
Duluth.
After the experience of last Thursday's meeting it
was deemed advisable to get speakers in the sevetal
languages to participate in the organization work. Polish
and Swedish speakers and organizers have already been
selected. Austrian and Greek leaders will be on the
ground soon.
Talk about a union labor revival: Duluth is to have
one in earnest. The vast majority of Duluth's wage
earners are to be given an opportunity to join the or­
ganized labor movement, and it is believed most of them
will avail themselves of the opportunity. Thoughtful
workingmen have learned by experience that there is no
hope for them to improve their condition except through
organization, and they will organize.
With the slogan: "Organize and Get on the Way
for $3 a Day," appeals lo every man in whose breast,
there is still burning the fire of hope. The present cost
of living and the demands of present day civilization
call for increased wages to every man who works with
his hands.
Employers will continue to base the wages they pay
to their workmen in accordance with the supply of and
demand for labor. Sometimes this wage to common
laborers runs as high as $2.75 a day, but this is rare
and only temporary. Most times it hovers about §2.
It was $2 twenty years ago, and it will be $2 or there­
abouts twenty years from now unless the unskilled work­
ingmen of this day do as the skilled workmen have done,
and organize.
Look at it from every angle and it will be found that
labor's only hope is in organization. Without organiza­
tion labor will be crushed to atoms. The skilled workers
must see to it that their unskilled comrades are taught
the lesson of unity, and what it will bring them. They
must do this for both offensive and defensive reasons.
No workman can afford to sit idly bye and permit
others to do his fighting. T^at is exactly what hag. been
done for these toany years past, and it is getting labor
nowhere. "He who would be free must strike the blow,":
is as applicable to industrial serfdom as it was to every
other form of slavery. No political or industrial Moses
WASHINGTON, April 6.—Before
the house naval committee, the Beth­
lehem Steel company today made a
final effort to prevent the recommen­
dation of the government armor plate
bili.
It pledged that if the United States
became involved in war, or threat­
ened with war, the plant would fur­
nish every product it made "at any
price the government chooses to pay."
and that the plant would run to ca­
pacity 24 hours a day.
Further, it agreed to manufacture
armor plate for an indefinite period
at any price the federal trade com­
mission might fix. These were in ad­
dition to former affers to furnish ar­
mor fcr $395 a ton for five years.
There was a serious question
whether even these offers would save
the company from government com­
petition. President Grace said he
made the offers as a matter of pat­
riotism, and to save the $7,000,000 in­
vested in the present plant.
In the senate, Chairman Chamber
la'n was engaged trying to save his
army plan from the assaults of the
national guardsmen.
aided by public sentiment, much good
was accomplished for the unfortunate
seaman.
The temporary comforts and the
security afforded by the home was
duly appreciated, but unfortunately
the homes were neither numerous nor
large enough to give shelter to all
who sought them. The result was the
boarding-house keeper retained a
large but ich restricted interest in
the sailors' goings and comings.
Disregard For Rights.
When sailors were robbed or
wronged under the new dispensation
it was done warily without instiga­
tion by the boarding-house keeper,
whose punishment when caught
swiftly and severely followed.
This is an epitome of^ British law
and the status of the sailor, before
and subsequent to its adoption in that
country. In the United States we had
no such laws or an laws of value
which might be enforced to protect
the sailor from.brutal officer or rob­
bing boarding-house keeper. We had
Shipping Commissioners, it is true,
who were supposed to do both, but
never. did it. Shipping Commissioners
were politicians,, whose best interests
were subserved by pandering to ship
owners, shipping masters and board*
FOB SOCIAL JUSTICE. ECONOMIC REFORM AND POLITICAL PROGRESS.
1
DULUTH AND SUPERIOR, APRIL 8, 1916.
UNION LABOR PLEADS WITH UNSKILLED
tsses.
SCARES STEEL CO.! ON 1,000 MORE MEN MUST HAVE DAY OFF
Pay of Practically All Day
borers Will Be Raised
By One.
La-
APPLETON, Wis., April C.—Fol­
lowing the announcement of the
adoption of the three-tour system, the
combined Locked Paper company lias
announced that in the course of an­
other week the pay of practically all
day laborers will be raised.
The three-tour system will necessi­
tate the employment of approximate­
ly 1 000 more men. One of the 16
mills which granted the system an­
nounced today that its payroll will be
increased $90,000 a year.
Five more mills announced today
that they woudi go to the three-tour
system, making 21 in all that have
granted better, hours.
STAGE EMPLOYES GAIN.
DANBURY, Conn., April 6.—The
wage increases demanded by the
Theatrical Stage Employes' union
took effect today.
WORSHIP OF MAMMON MUST YIELD TO PRAYERS OF SEAMEN FOR FREEDOM
ing-house keepers, all of whom were
either from necesp' or choice mixed
in politics and were always upon the
same side politically as the commis­
sioner.
I
have personal knowledge of
many complaints of a serious charac­
ter made from time to time to a com­
missioner in San Francisco that went
unheeded because they were against
those under protection.
I
have known,
too, where he was required to inter­
pose between a boarding-house
keeper and sailor.
Always Against Sailor.
The commissioner always decided
against the sailor, because the board­
ing-house keeper was a paying client
to, and the political servitor of his
own best friends and counselor.
Brutality upon the high seas, by the
American captains of American ships,
were so rarely punished, that in tims
they acquired the world-wide unenvi­
able reputation of being the hardest
taskmakers and most cruel and ex­
acting petty tyrants afloat. This long
and well established reputation for
harshness and brutality of American
sailing masters made it impossible
for American-born boys to adopt sea­
faring as a means of livelihood. .Any­
thing else was preferable to the life
of a sailor with its hardships and
dbs
,::
will be able to free the laborer alone. He must have
behind him the great fighting force of organized labor.
It is the duty of every wage earner to join a labor
union, not only for his own welfare, but for the benefit
of his children, and his children's children. The more
he does for himself today the easier it will be for his
children to wage the fight in their day. And by the
same logic, if he remains indifferent today, the more
difficult it will be for his children to solve their problems,
And the more bitter their struggle will be in their day.
It is not enough to live for today, we surely owe some­
thing to our children. We at least should deem it our
duty to set for them the example we would have them
follow.
Now as we have repeatedly said, the unskilled worker
can get the same returns from organization that the
skilled worker has obtained. It is as easy to maintain an
effective union of unskilled workers as it is to maintain
ft union of skilled workmen. And it is just as practical
to do so. We have a hundred examples of unions of
unskilled workers all about us. Wherever the unskilled
workers have had the good sense to organize and apply
their intelligence in organization wages have been raised,
hours of labor shortened and working conditions gen­
erally improved.
Of course it takes some effort and a great deal of
sacrifice at the outset to put any kind of a labor organ­
ization on its feet. It is because of this fact so many
young unions fail. Workingmen too frequently fear to
face the struggle, but the longer they put it off the more
difficult it will be for them to get started, and to achieve
results when they do get started.
the present industrial conditions, the high cost of
necessities and the increasing demands of the times
upon the purses of workingmen, warrant and compel the
unorganized wage earners to join the labor movement,
and to do so without delay. Their case is hopeless
unless they do.
Take a lesson from the capitalists. They know the
value of organization. See what it ha3 done for them,
and note how all the rest of the people are at their
mercy, for no other reason than that capital is organized
and the masses are not. What capital has done through
organization, labor can do. But stronger organization
among laborers will benefit the masses, while the highly
developed organization of capital has exploited the
It should not be necessary to preach this old doctrine
td| the workingmen of today. They should know all
atioiit it trom experience. But many of them do not
know, and we are obliged to harp at it until they see
thfe. light.
^&Every unorganized worker is cordially invited to visit
union labor headquarters at Brown's hall, 10 East Su­
perior street, and get in touch with the union labor
officials. They stand ready and willing to help.
HARRISBURG, Pa., April 6.—The
indstrial board of the state depart­
ment of labor has refused the request
of hotels and institutions Pennsyl­
vania employing bore than 10 women
to exempt them from the law which
provides for a complete day of rest
each week for these employes.
The industrial board included this
tart statement in its refusal:
"Most of them (institutions) are
supposed to be doing a service to
humanity many are maintained
state aid and private charitable funds.
And in the disposition of these fnnds
they are supposed to seek the great
est good of all,'including their em­
ployes.
'Being intrusted with funds for
beneficient and religious work, they
should so co-operate these funds as
to benefit all connected with their
operation and because of the high
idealism in the founding of such in­
stitutions they should be the foremost
to establish ideal labor relations.
"State institutions, especially, should
lead in observing state laws."
brutalities, its degradation and total
elimination of self-respect. The
American boy or man is not desired
upon American ships by our Ameri­
can sailing-masters. Mixed crews of
all other nationalities are preferred,
for the obvious reason that cohesion
is improbable and mutinity or re­
sistance unlikely among a number
of uneducated men, lacking the tie
of a common language to bind them
when tyranny is exercised and need­
less punishment inflicted upon one
of them.
Aims of La Follette Law.
To raise the standard of the per­
sonnel upon vessels of American re­
gister to guarantee the utmost
safety and security to those journey­
ing by water to establish and main­
tain equity and fairness between the
employing and employed in maritime
transactions and to redeem the
American mercantile marine from
odium, which has long enveloped it,
making it the first and best of the
world's maritime messengers is the
aim of the La Follette Seamen's
law, recently enacted, by the United
States congress.
To the enactment of this law
strenuous opposition was made by
those whose'material Interests .are
.•• •-.
I
PLANTS
Du Ponts Take Advantage of
Government's Failure and
Control New Industry.
AIM TO GET CONTROL OF
NATION S WATER POWERS
Germany Uses Nitrogen to Good
Advantage—Great Help
During War.
PHILADELPHIA, April 6.—The U.
S. senate has failed to pass the pro­
ject for a government plant for the
manufacture of nitrogen from the air.
In view of this fact it is interesting to
know that at the same time that the
committee on agriculture introdused
a bill to appropriate $15,000,000 for a
government nitrogen plnat, the Du
Pont powder trust also submitted an
amendment which demanded that the
monopoly of this lousiness should be
handed to it.
'This is the same game which we
witnessed in the matter of a govern­
ment armor plant," writes L. "Werner
in the Philadelphia Tageblatt. "For
many years the armor ring, with its
three armor plate factories, has
mulcted the government mercilessly,
until at last a government aromor
plate factory remedied the situation.
A bill to this effect has passed the
senate.
"In order to prevent its final adop­
tion, the ring has now offered to re­
duce the price of its armor. It com­
plains that its business is being
ruined, although it has millions of
dollars invested.
A New Industry.
The nitrogen industry, however, is
new. No private interests so far can
be involved. The government still has
a free hand. More even, without the
help of the government it is impos­
sible to create a nitrogen monopoly.
"In order to compete with the South
Americans nitrates, the nitrogen must
be produced very cheaply. This may
be done by the use of water powers
and eletricity. In Sweden and Nor­
way, where water power is plentiful,
the manufacture of nitrogen from the
air has been tarted first. The present
war, which cut off the Chili saltpeter
from Germtny, compelled its govern­
ment to secure a substitute by pro­
ducing nitrogen artificially.
"Nitrogen is a part of the air. It
forms plant manure. It is necessary
for many chemical processes. It
plays a role in war in the shape of
nitric acids used for explosives.
Agriculture Needs It.
"Agrculture has long needed arti­
ficial fertilizers. Without it the in­
tensive culture now established in
many European countries would have
been impossible.
"By means of nitrogen, which ex­
ists in unlimited quantities in the air,
and to which it always returns, great
possibilities are opened up for agri­
culture.
"The nitrogen question thereby be­
comes one of the most vital questions
of human society, with its ever in­
creasing population.
"Should such an object be handed
over to private hands and permitted
to be a means of filling private pock­
ets?
Need Public Ownership.
'There is no need for this. It is
very easy to prevent it by keepng the
nation's water powers out of private
hands. Of course, the private monop-
Continued on rage 2.
WOULD CURB COURTS
IN LABOR DISPUTES
DETROIT, Mich., April 6.—The
Detroit federation of labor has ap­
pointed a committee to initiate a ref­
erendum for the enactment of an
amendment to the state constitution
which will debar judges from issning
injunctions in labor disputes. The
legislation proposed is similar to the
Clayton amendment, which was iop
ted by congress last year after nearly
25 years' agitation by the American
Federation of Labor.
best served by an inadequate, dis­
credited and inefficient merchant
service against the enforcement of
the law or its repeal. The same in­
terests appeal for support to Cham­
bers of Commerce and other com­
mercial bodies upon the allegation
that it is destructive of our shipping
interests, restrictive, oppressive and
wholly bad. The main reason for en­
listing commercial bodies in oppo­
sition to this law is, because of their
frequent antagonisms with labor or­
ganizations.
Organized Labor Firm.
Labor organizations have never
been known to advocate, or in any
manner tolerate any form of injustice
that they felt should be abrogated or
utterly wiped out. When disputes do
occur, it will be founded upon jus­
tice and always with the object of
the social betterment of the side they
sustain.
The membership of Chambers of
Commerce are no better informed of
the possible or probably results of
the seamen's law than are the mem­
bership of labor unions. Nor are they
as well qualified to judge of the mer­
its of the law as the unions are, for
the reason that their time and
tought is almost continuously ab­
:")TjFbe working class movement to
wTmost effective must be conducted
Qerest
^lhe workers themselves in the In
of the Workers. It will not
^be dominated by the so-called in­
tellectuals or butters-in.—Gompers.
TWO CENTS.
DON'T HELP PUBLIC
Not One Case Pointed Out
Bji
Which Consumer Has Been
Relieved.
A
TRUST DISSOLUTION
ONLY BOOSTS STOCKS
Can Not Be Destroyed Until Na­
tural Resources Are Restored
BY GILSON GARDNER.
WASHINGTON, April 2. The
Sherman anti-trust law affords no re­
lief. This is the conclusion to which
leaders in Congress are being forced
by present conditions, notably the
gasoline situation.
Investigation, prosecution, "dissolu­
tion"—that is the routine of happen­
ings as per the Sherman law. Result:
Reorganization, immunity, increased
stock values and dividends, and
higher prices.
Not a single case has yet been
pointed out in which the consumer has
benefited by the remedies admin­
istered by the Sherman law. The Wil­
son administration has practically
given over prosecution under this
act. The President has apparently
seen that its effect was primarily a
harrassment of big business without
material results, and, following the
precedent in the case of the American
Telephone and Telegraph and the
Western Union monopoly, the gov­
ernment has been carrying out its
policy of a "constitution of peace."
Big firms which were disposed to be
any degree reasonable have been
exempted from prosecution, and the
Federal Trade Commission, instead
of a militant body, as contemplated
by the framers of the law, has be­
come, under the management of
Chairman Davies, an aid and en­
couragement to big business.
Investigating in Circle.
TT*^v.na^°r George Sutherland. of
Utah, spoke in the Senate of the
gasoline situation recently and urged
investigation. He was reminded that
the Federal Trade Commission, the
interior Department, the Department
of Justice and several other agencies
of the government already for several
months have been investigating.
Moreover, this business of investiga­
ting merely takes .up the endless
eirele which began with the investi­
gation of the Standard Oil and ended
With its "dissolution."
It is silly to talk' about investigat­
ing the Standard when there is a vol
luminous record in the files of the
Supreme Court, in which a majoritv
of the justices agree officially that
the Standard is guilty of all charges
made and that the public is entitled
to relief that the monopoly should
be ended in order that competition
might be restored, independets might
live, and the public might not be
subjected to the public whims of
this vast organization to be gouged
and bled at the trust's pleasure. The
declarations of the court decision
would thrill the user of gasoline and
warm the cockles of his heart. It
was a great "victory" for the public,
and hailed as such at the time the
decision was handed down. Every
lawyer put it into his list of import­
ant cases, and it is today the last
word on the matter of dealing with
great monopolistic bodies like Stan­
dard Oil.
Aided Standard Oil.
But that is all it is words only.
The court in this case, and in the to-'
bacco case, delegated to an inferior
Federal Circuit Court the carrying
out of its intentions in regard to "dis­
solution" and the Circuit Court sat
down with the Attorney General and
figured out a scheme entirely satis­
factory to the attorneys for the oil
company. Nothing vital to the ex­
istence of a trust was disturbed. The
pipe lines, the ownership of the oil
fields, the trust's leases, the amount
of ownership which might remain in
single hands were left undisturbed,
with the result that the monopoly re-
Continned on Paso 2,
sorbed in the acquisition and con­
servation of the dollar, regardless of
what misery it entails, whereas the
men of the unions are constantly en­
deavoring to lighten labor's burden,
lessen misery, and step by step hope
to advance all to a higher plane of
social existence.
It is a matter for sincere congratu­
lation that the people of America fure
not all associated in Chambers of
Commerce and similar bodies, nor
are they very much influenced by the
suggestions or conclusions of such
bodies.
Humanity's Turn now.
We live now in an age and at a
time when the worship of Mammon
must yield to the prayers and im­
portunities "of the lowly and op­
pressed—when man must take pre­
cedence to the dollar. Of late years
no demand has been made upon the
workingmen of this country and of
the whole people for that matter, so
great, as the preservation, intact, of
every clause of the La Follette Sea­
men's Act. It becomes the duty of
every man in this country with a
spark of sympathy to protest loudly
and vigorously against every attempt
to nullify, abridge or repeal any
clause in the Seamen's law.
