'tl
Jstm.
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Rain to'day,,ri
robably to-morrow:
IT SHINES FOPs ALL
efts
winus.
Highest
',49! lowest, 35.
Detailed w
Import on pj je
it
S
3
i
1:
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 221.
GAKKANZA ASKS
cl TIME LIMIT ON
W.HMTFOR VILLA
Insists U. S. Sliould With-(Iran-
Within fliirty
or Sixty Days.
HOW FAR SOUTH WILL
fiKX. PERSHIXG GO?
U. !. rinvilling to Quit
Mexico and Negotiations
Arc Halted.
VILLA JS FLEEING
SOUTH OF SATEVO
Ameriraii Forces at His
Heels No Permit to
Use Railway.
Wvsiiincton, April 7. Unwilling
ens on the part of the American Gov
trnment to limit Its pursuit of Villa
to any particular time or territory hus
itlted the negotiations between tho
tato Department and the do fucto
Government of Mexico for a protocol
to govern the chase.
(!rn. Carranza, it was learned to
tiicht, U disposed to insist that after
t month or sixty days (Sun. rerun
tts's f oi res should be withdrawn If
tllU has not been caught, und U ,,IIl;'' ; more eerlous
, , perhaps than, it has been at any time
pressing for u definite statement from since Uermany first began the use of
the Tutted States on this score. submarines as a wcupon against un
... ,. ., ... I armed ships,
Also. It Is said, iurn.nu is desirous Tlic ,.rV,1m lcfl ,., for wwk
o.' Mxlng rigidly the limits of terrl- end trip on the .Mayflower to get a brief
ton within which the American troops "'f1,16 from the crave resiwnsibllltlc
v. ...,.,. ., , , l which he has faced all week, and expects
ui'i.-iu".- ami uiiiu anu 01 pre-,
V.IIUIUK iii mi- iiioiocoi jusi now lur
ucy may appr.Mch any town. Jle Ma
calieil for a stiiletncnt from the Wash-
xS'on Government as to how much
,. ., .. . ,
Hit t. en. Pershing s men will pen-
taitu Into .Mexico.
n Itt-plv in C'nrrHiim.
,
i iicvriopeu ni-ii.iy in coiiiicillun
i ll reports from the border that Car
tns.i was preparing to demand the
A.ndruvvul of the American exptdi
aun and thut the State Department
ha not given a direct answer lo rc-tn-
inquiries which Carranai has
aiole .is to the probable length of stay
: ic American forces or as to the
(fiance to which they vvlll penetrate
.at 1 Mexican territory.
Th.- inquiries:. It is believed in 01TI
c.a inies here, were inspired by a
'iir to sCP the chase abandoned, al
i..ouuh 1' vvu emphatically denied
t Merc had been any olflelal cou
suration of the reports that Car
uiu.i would tlatly demand the with
(.i.iwni of ih,. expedition.
A '.i-ilay!! Cabinet nieetjng tliere
'a r. 1 disposition to consider 11 wlth-i-iaival
despite the Imminence of 11
m the relations with Uermany.
uiluw.ng the meeting Secretury lin
; said that there was no Intention
far .is he knew to give up the chase,
Wd Secretary of War Halter added
..'.it he was not contemplating any '
c.ian.e of orders to the troops. 1
Although every effort is being inude
1- Administration circles to minimize
tx'eiit to which the negotiations
'- deadlocked it was admitted In
J iW Department clrcltu thut tho In
line, referred to have been made by
'Jfranza, but have not been replied
.. 1
-.'Kiui.in: me situation with regard '
'ie u-u of the rullroJds to jiro-
..vn the American expedition rc-'
-aiiH one of uncertainty Officials I
'111- 11 s)(i-,. tl. hiVa ....... I. ,..!.....
h from the renorts tlmt u shinnw.,,.
. started ftom Juurez to the
'lornmn colony ui Cushs (Jrandes,
v"n i Is supplying Clou. Pershing un
"f'oi ii,,ot, uiihough it vvus admitted
""is was no guarantee that snob
!,;l"n'i'ls " futur,! w" not b it-
nun wnn.
Hilk
er S-i- WlUon.
of War Uakcr had a Ijii!-
' ' "hli ihu President lute this
a. io , coiaernlns Hie outlook, but
- . ....TV ui.-. uiU onjeci of Ills call.
- mv rresiiicnt sent for him
phi pose of Kitting the latest pre-
lle'V "' a,'',"y "H ' tllC
" - Will bu ie,,ulred for the cap
'"' ula.
'beer talking privately still
ie lack of iallro.nl facilities
', ' 'S 'c cessliy of relying on motor
r. ... t,r transpottatlon of sup
h'.ip ihe i-.inid movmni of
-i.itoii.i shortage of fodder
.oh nine columns (,f Hit
IimIiHoii whs Indicated in
nuicnes Wiilcn reached lbs
".lent to-day. Accord Inir in
i if -p
Ut
,.,";'"r", "rrc ccnt Coi.sul j
( hlhu.ihua to Gen Hell at
'id forwarded thiough Gen, '
vv n iiingiiiu. the Tenth i.'.iv. I
in; n ler Col ,on south
'i.i. had been living for to
liied,bre a,,,l corn ;
-.'lieioMty of an American
I ii. I IV III III,, V e In tl- mi., ...I I
St
ill " 'my In tin- vicinity saved
rum nciual suffering when
es gave out.
vn himself ii-pnitiij the Ktu
'onsul Letcher by telephone,
il Unit tin- mining concern
i-fTiml piovUlons from Its
1 'mil also supplied him with
iiiijiii
nil ii sl,.L- ,.i t 1..-1"'
" " ,l-.n IIII.IHK T
Oiled AllllllUUll Ihe iimiiih of
'' .1 iy was mentioned In l.eti her's '
'.w"",'. Vl'"'"-li"ii. Mcotl advised that II
Mould ut be made public, for fear that
f'"i'iiiin on fourth Page,
"
WILSON READY TO TAKE
U CASES TO CONGRESS
He May Submit Evidence Next Week Unless Germany
Makes a Satisfactory Reply Free Rein for ;
Him Is Said to Be Assured.
Wasiiimiio.v. April 7. Pwsldent WIN
son may go before Congress on the tier
man nubmarine issue before tho end of
.next week.
He Is 'understood to have Informed In
directly both Senator Stone, chairman of
the l-'orelKti nidations Committee, and !
Chairman Flood of the House Foreign
Affairs Committee of this intention un
less the reply from Uermany to his rep
resentations concerning the iccenl sub
marine att.ickH Jeopardizing Americans
is satisfactory. lly satlsfuctuty the
I'resldent mean that It must contain
definite assurances that submarine at
tacks without warning on passenger
ships carrying Americans will cease.
Provided Uermany does not give a sat-;
Isfnctoiy reply to the President's In-
quirles cnueernlng the Sussex and other
ships alleged to have been attached
without warning by German submarines
he will go before Congress before mak- j
tug the next move.
ltoth the Senate and House leaders
have assured him. it Is understood, that
he will have a thiee to one majority for
n Joint resolution concurring in the pro
posal that he take whatever steps he
may deem advisable for the protection
of American rights on the high seas.
A Final llcniniiil,
Hacked by this Congressional sanction,
the I'resldent will then, it I said, ad
dress u final note Ui Germany asking
tlatly whether Hcrllu Is prepared to as
sure .the United States that American
rlslits will bo protected. Failure to
obtain this assuiance or another sub
marine attack on a passenger shlji cairy
Ing Americans will mean the severance
of diplomatic relations.
Up to a lato hour to-night there was
no indication that Genu. my Intends
to give the assurances the President
demands. Xo word has come from Am-
baw-ador Gerald. The situation Is rc-
to face again on Mondav. Before leav-
iiiussauor v.eraru .
; ,OIIle t -Ainerican re-
hiuests for luformatiou concerning live
, P"-"lc cases may W expected.
Tile live speclllu cases arc the attack
j on the Sussrx. the Englishman, the
i Manchester Kuglneer. the Kagle .Point
1 ami the Iterwindale. In each case
' Amei lean lives were placed In Jeopardy.
'In each case Ambassador Ccrard has
mailt representations to the German, the Investigation of thi. tuvat nfa lies
foreign Office on behalf of the United tn Prance was continue,! in Umdoii. on
fetates dovernment and has In effect material collected by the embassy there,
asked whether German submarines were Despite this official silence the cor
or were not responsible. In no case has respondent of Tiir. Sun has no hesita
dennany replied to Ambassador Gerard. t Haylng that the repoits will be
1.. .i.i.. 1 found to contain complete proof that
,
. 1 i.siurii. .nu oei ii'itu i-itiipuiK
have realized that a reasonable length of sufficient size to establish that fact
of time should 1: allowed for the Oer-1 and disprove the mine theoiy conclu
man Government to get reports fromtslvely. Other evidence like the detou.i
submarine commanders Involved. Hut I tlon will confirm the fact. It Is to be
It la now more than two weeks since the ,
Sllssev dlMAHler ocelirrerl. Iterlln'M it..-.
lav In statliuc whether or not a tier-
... . .. -
man submarine was responsible, for any"
of the cases Is making an unfavorable I
r.l la I
Impression line. Ambassador Gerard Is
understood to have been directed to
make I Ills clear to Herlln.
All of the developments to-day had a
distinct tendency to Increase rather than
lessen the tension In White House and
State Department circles.
The Cabinet's time was given over al
most exclusively to the latest evidence
pointing to u submarine as the cause of
the Sussex disaster. Secretary Lansing,
who has taken pains to see that the evi
dence of Germany's responsibility would
hold water legally as well as morally
believes that the facts presented to the.
Cabinet are convincing and practically
complete.
Secretary Daniels was Informed of
the Importance of the Investigations
made by the American naval attaches
hi Ioudon and Paris
The Cabinet Is
virtually unaiiiiiious In believing that
the evidence of Illegal submarine at
tacks is Irrefutable.
Several members of the Cabinet nd-
lllllieil mm auri iiir nii-- ins.. . ,v
spoke of the situation as "serious."
Cnofflclal reports tli.tt tho Genuan
Admiralty had requested the fierinan
1'orc!1 Office to give it all the available
l' l awwui mo u.iii.hi.
were followed here by a teport that
Ambassador Gerard had been asked to
supply this Information from Washing
ton. Officials here said the United
Stutes would flatly decline to do so.
President's tttltnde.
The President hold that Germany
knows whether or not a German sub
marine attacked the ship. He sees no
reason for providing Germany with the
evidence which has been collected until
the German Government otiiciaiiy goes
on record as saying that a German sub-
marine did or did not attack the Sussex.
Tile Iiici Ilia, me wenii.ui .iuiiiiiiio
after two weeks knowb so little about a mile later he refers casually to fefrn.
the Sussex case that It finds It neces- nirfnjh'liiiiifiiofi friiiiirAdifiamlilodfiiAcs
sary to Incpilro of the Porelgn Ofllce v'''ifiifdro;iiMiu:liir,
leads to the belief here that the Geiman "After these GaigiintUHii philological
Government Is either sparring for time outrages let no one accuse the physician
or that It Is prepared to adhere to Its . of expanding his Ideas into polysyllable
contention that It Is not responsible. labyrinths."
Iloth Sir Cecil spring-itice. me nriiisu
Ambassador, and M. Jusseraiul, I tie
French Ambassador. moiH the Idea that
It necessarily takes a week or more for
reports to be received In fteilln from
German submarine commanders, When
a German subm.il Ine sinks a waishlp or
I accomplishes a feat of heroism It 1
". ' '"." ....... ... i c.w.uin lb
'""I '"..0 " ' ' . ,V. i. ZT
' i In fact tne i iipidil "f communication
.between the German submarines anu tne
Gel man Admiralty has been a matter ot
J'n'p,.. C.ulcr thee." cl. cu.nstances. It
;H .re,dent Wllmn's patience Is
h( ,.xlMUte,i ,y ,. German re-
.,,., tllrfl s proving so difficult to
I V ....... ...... ...... I i
wonder lo naval experts iiere aim in
nhceitaln what the paitleular HUbniarllien
allescd to have sunk ships with Ameri
cans on board have been dnlii.
The Impression Is gaining ginuml that
Gennany Is Inclined to treat the present
Imsiiii with the I'nlted States as a diplo
matic game and not as the vital itiest.on
...i..l,,le w hich the President Is llulil.
' '
j,((r -0-,
...... ItArn.lnrfr Ihe ll..r,,i.,,, 1..,.
v , l,u ,,nl l.uiii lliu i,nul,l,., ....
I l.BUllllli l.i.n ,.. .- .... . i fc... ..,
Secretary Lansing since the Sussex dis
aster. This Is no way Indicates the Am
bassador'fl personal desire to avoid the
liiue but reflects the attitude of hi
NEW YORK, SATURDAY, APRIL 8, 1916. copyrioht, 1916, by the Sun Printing and Publishing Atsoclattou.
Government, wh.ch has so fai declined
to admit that Get many Is Involved,
The Ambassador left here to-dn.-. 'o
be gone until next neck,
Indications are that Congress by a
practically unanimous vote will suppo.i
i lie i-resiueut In his course in the tier-
wan case,
month ni;,) a considerable
element In each home una dlsoosed to
adopt a resolution Interfering with the
Presidents conduct of foreign telatlous.
A vote was for ed and the President's
right to manage the Government's for
eign relations without Interference by
CongwM was suitable J. Since then, ac
cording to evidence In the hands of the
Government, Gcrm.-in suhmarine com
manders have on fle occasions fired on
t vessels urr.vlng Amei leans as pas-
i sengei-s, . f Hie ship were unarmed.
Al'l-tlt-llltlfvll.' til At It . J 1 lllfclWlllll Itl 111
Congress to let the Piesident follow Ins
own devices In the negotiations with
Germany, mid the Administration ltron-
fhlent that the law making body will
approve any coiire that Mr. Wilson may
outline as nccetn-v In the clrcum-
stnnccs,
KXPKllTS FINISH WORK.
American nnl tttnclicn loiiiinirc
llelnt I'rnmiirnt.
.'icriof Citf.fr 'eap.iri f Tar Si
I'.vnis, April 7. - LieutenantComman
der William K. Sayles and Lieut. Ileruard
L. Smith, naval attaches of the American
Kmbjssy here, returned to-day, after
com-deling their Investigation "or the
explosion which wrecknl the Sussex.
During the Inuttlry tliev travelled fiom
Houlognr to the naval headipMrK r. at
Toulon, and then to the Hiitlt.li Ad
miralty otllces in London. It Is under
stood that they computed fragments of
the metal found after the Sussex e
plosion with the German torpedoes of
btnnze which arc In the posesidoti of
tho Hrlllsh and French naval authorl-i
i
riiu .n-mi c............, ...ii i. i i
fragments will be kept b. ,
the Mneilcin iiitlinrltles
them ni l T l e i?. of I
ivl , 'm'.Vl ' I,,' .m i
1 ar's. unlit-s
wish to use
luiiiiern iiiiiii.iviis m.ioe ny .Muerican 1
passengers on the Susivx has been ,
cabled lo Washington.
The atlldavits '
together with a technical lepoit by
the naval olilcer,
will be mailed
Washington
Attache Logan was .inother oltlcer to I
furnish a reiirt on ihe Sussex explo.
lon. It l understood that Mr. Logan
Is a friend of President Wilson, who
j will attach much lmpmtance to Ids
.... ,i. ..
rmin private sources the (oirsnond
. ,.' ,i,,.,i' .-(.uicir, (lie ( III r-SPOIIII-
ent of Tin: Sf.v hears that the attaches 1
themselves found fragments of a tor-'
.... , , .T . . . .
iuu rinmrnueii in me Sussex wtilclli
were undoubtedly of German origin, as
shown by comparison with (iermnn tor-
liedoee In French possession at Toulon. 1
Amha.ss.olnr Sharp tefused to divulge
lll ,.nl...,l. nt II,. .1
I . 1 1. ivi ( IIH-J
are maile public at Warhltuton. ami
wmlM .nv (mtlilfii ,1... .1..,
the Sussex wiw torpedoed. Fragments
vi niriui inunii niKaru tne ussi-x are 1
hoped here that the reiKirts will be fully
l)lllilt..he.l liv V.i .lit.. ui t n ui. I
enee iinlustltli.Me in.Ti ,, tin . ,
lenee unJustHlnble Insinuations which
................... ...................
are being made In pails that on y such
parts see the light as suit the line that
Wii.tilrwrln,. .I....I.1...I ..1
"
yfr! ni
trom
"tVlnrf
mine
nnd. If the former to whom the toroisbi
MonLUI'TeVeiU
flencM to nnue in,
deuce to answer lioth.
GERARD REASSURED.
Hold I'oiifrrriier mi I
Hon I I Mile
nl Wllhclmntrnsne.
IlKitMN. via London, April IS fde.
layed). The submarine Munition was
discussed yesterday by Ambassador
Gitnrd and Dr. Alfied I-' Jf, Zltnmer-
inunn, l'nder Secretary for Foreign Af-
ralts,
It Is believed that no Information con
cerning the Sussex and other steamships
recently sunk was clven to Mr. Gerard.
An Intimation that Get many w ready to
meet tne I'niti! suites mow thuu half
way sliould it lie found that the Sussex
was toipedoed by mistake was ennvejed,
It Is understood,
SPEAKING AS PHYSICIANS.
The Pols llnhlr One Mbons lie's
There nn the Jab.
"In a paper In the Joiminf o l,c
Cirmfcof Society for September," sa.vs
the MciiWtil Ittcortl, discussing "Tiie
Polysyllabic Physician," "we find the
word frlriiiflmefijlniiiiioff frapirnylfij
nriufiir x.
"A few lines fimher on the writer
speaks of fiiiiiclfiyfnifdMnorffiuclii.
flimillllirilvlICtfllfoiJllfnriff-lmlife .nml
,
NEW YORKER WINS AIR FIGHT.
Co wile n llrlliHH llovvn Ilia Sri-onil
Leriuaii AeroplHiie,
Pains, Apiil 7. Hlliott C. Cowdeii. Jr.,
of New Voik, t,ergcaiit pilot In the French
aviation corps, has Just biounht down
."Ingle hm:d"d u t-o wesied Geruuui
avlatlk within the French lines ut Ver
dun. The enemy machine vvus armed
wilh two ipilck liiitK guns.
Covvdeu'H feat Is mentioned ill the of
ficial foiimmnliuf-. but his name In not
alven, William Thaw and four famous
Flench pilots aw meinbeiK of the same
siiuadion as Cowdeii,
it Ik the second German nerophno
whli h, as olllclally noted, he has brought
now II,
FRENCH HONOR MRS. WHARTON.
Hiiriillt-il In I.i-kIoii of llnuor for
llrr Keller Work,
Paiiih, April ".Mrs. Kdlth Wharton,
tho novelist, hswbeen made a member
of the leglon of Honor for her work
In behalttjif French war eufferers.
NO PEACE ON
GERMAN BASIS, !
BRITISH REPLY i
Lord Robert Cecil Scorns
Terms Outlined by Kais-
er's Chancellor.
SAVS THE ALLIES
CANNOT HE SPLIT
Spti tal ( iif.fr lifttialcii ! Tiik scv
London, Api',1 7. Lord Hubert Cecil,
the Itritlsh Minister of lllochadc. made
the following statement to tin- coin-
npondei.1 of Tilt: SfN lo-d.iy with lef-
eience to Cluinci-IIni- von Ib'tlmianii- j Satuida.v . whs found lo-d.iy ! police
llollwig's speech lit Jhe lirlchstng on 1 man Campbe i at tile Wlcl.ham boald
Wednesday: j lug house, 17 llroome street, this i l
"The Gemi.in Cnnm i-dm . n nsii.it, he hail taken a room to lemaln mini
claims t. tat the Allies have no liual light lu-inoiiovv, when she was to incept n
to blockade lifiinan.v, and he appeals to ' position as a domestic servant ill Ihe
1 think that i-cuiruls hold tii,. miik opln-1
ion. V., among all neuli.,1 GoV.-inir,,,,.
wiu prutiXeil against n.ir actum none
J h.is r! argued thai a IplotUadc m In
'itself Illegal, pie. iselv in pmpnrllon In ,
' .. 1.1..1. i. i .1..
i which It l effective
"That, howevfr, i lleioian.v's conteii- vei tlsement for help wanted by mi un
tlou. Cermanv lias umnle 1,1 n. Inliueil ! del wear timnufactuier, I). M, McCathlc.
her luleiillun of blookad.na'thls count rj,
and has done her best to do so. Pie-,
emnabl.v her action Is JuMilicd liecau-e
is IneiTectlv
Itefeiritu to ihe ( ii in. idK.iV ,isi
tlon tint liieiit I St t.t It i " ii-s,ii.isii,. f.(,
a roi'tlnuiitlon of tiie war .u.,1 lbni id.,
pnVHinil in.nie by Dr. v'on P.etlmi.iiin-
tlotluei! ta
t December was mil a ns w ei ed
lly the Allies, i.uhI Itolieit said '
"llv sIukIIiik out hepiii.itc Powirs
"lm,"B "' A111S Cham.ilor en-
de.ivius to sow niischli f atal dtrusl be-
iweni I item. nut llie Al is ,ianil to-
""V"' the Allies ..land to-
K ther and ale pledged In m.ike p. ace in
com'
"Tne Cn.HK.llor krows. ..nil :l.t p.oi.le
.. .... .
., ....... . r , , , .
V ' '"' .V"u'" ' cin.es. siiouui
' imhiiiii hi iiiiv v"ih siis'cu
"c" l"V. ' "" .'"r '"!"',
will ever deseive. or l ecu Intended to'
cbt.iln. the least attention ftom Hie
Allies.
Die
lllleil unnlliu llllnila.
'rliee periodical sn.eiiio.
Helchstair an-ronnlnir tillii.u i, ln,ilmi
T, pic. Inl .1- .1...1:.,... -iv ...t.
' .....M.i . ' '
ru" the deliberate ib-sign to nourish
German hatred against England and to
i..iu... .1. -I... ... 1- 1
"vl.,i .,ln nviivu inai me nrrinaii 1
Gov eminent I flratitus a defensive war. j
"They me Intended to forestall and '
P'cv ent what the German (i.iv ernnient
not fears, a popular demand bv Oef.
tr.f V...,., I.. ......
s... u.ii-
stance. 1 an His Allies 1 gn fy t ils att .-
tuile by taking It as n nveruue.-
HecallliT.- the Chancellor-s piev.ou.
Iteichstag uttsr.mer, with ufu Cft to
t-ace mntiovah. I.r.l Unbelt ...1.1.
Tbe derm in never made any pru
isjsal, noiHlthstandtmr what Dr urn,"". '
llelhmann-llnllweg now pretends Hut
1 lilt
In this Instance, even If he ire yineeie.
we reje t with ludlirii.nlon and conlemp'
tne tiavj cir peace be oners
"lie Invokes the principle of national
Ity In Poland and llelglum. Then- ate
'
two principles of nation tlltv
.).
une pro-
claims the simple lisht of in. 1 1 man to
,,;(;l!'.L",;,"V',, .
, . .
that rluht through the establishment ami
": V"." ' .7" u ' 'r, !"r . M
iii.ii riKlll uiniugn III" esiaoi snment anil
the steady develiitinient of demorntl.-
goveriimen, w ith ,, each com m"
. . . " . .
ine omer summons ail professors
from all unlvei sllles nnd rovers Its
l"'1!"." ,,?hlRn" '" a 1,0,1,1 of -thnolos-'
1 pa theories, sends out secret service
"K,"ls lo f""''it lusurreitloii luid stlinu-
i1'"' l'llollHl"'l1 n"n 1,1 l'"' ''outs-e
.'. .nous in tne,
t a bulfei bonlerl.mil of anarchy.
"The first principle Is the endeavor
j of this i mm! , the sviond Is ibe am
j blllou of the Puielnn Olllce of Germany '
"r Melulain" Sennit-it,
After scotnfulh ciltlclslng tbe ch.ui
celloi 's refeienceu m P.a..i,.i ...,.i i.i..i'.....
loid Cecil continued '
"Germany wants a new Hclulum Thut !
which has been broken shad be icstortd
and with the nation and Government ,
wlio broke It we will never have peat e
,is long as tliey nave the eirinnieiy to
claim the liKhl of pla.vhiK Ui
rule of
ITOVIllelice Willi tiie picies. i
ii-- . iiuiiieiiiii- icpresenis i.eiin.liiv
as a peace loving nation, forced Inn, war I
against Its will by the plots or the I tended to pike the flist tialn he could
Allies, fighting In self-defence and leady ca.ch for Port .leivU, as he made In
at any moment to conclude a peace which qulrles loncetn.nu trains tunning to that
-...,. ..un. un. i u f Mnue oi which
nil nations shall be fwe to develnn
themselves In freedom mid security. 1
-no tne l.irm or tlmlast twenty months
liar this out" Germany sas she wishes
lor nn end of hostilities, l it because
she loves peace? No, It Is because her
early Iu-jkh of victory are dwindling and
she wishes to draw full advantage from
her past successes and be in a position
after the war still to dominate ttie con
tinent with the, threat of her foimldable
military machine.
"What would such a peace mean" I
vvouiii it mean the triumph of the Ger
man Idea of international moiallti, a
ttluinph of the sjHtein which riKiirds
treaties ns 'scran of papei nml linds
iverythlng permissible In .war provided '
cnly that It Is successful
"Do not make any mistake. Germany
hap nut changed. Zeppelins still oreep at
night over the peaieful couutrysldo and
Imp bombs on women and children,
Submarines still lurk 111 the depth of the
sen and send to bottom unarmed mer
chant vessels, neutral or belligerent,
with all non-combatant passengers ami
crews. Their methods of warfare ie
main riithh-s, and Inhuman just as
falsehoods and t-lfi outcry conlluiiu ai
llielr chief diplomatic weapons,"
Men in ship Clilnn Case,
Iteferrlug to the steamsiiip iiinu ihe!
lllockade .Minister said:
"There Is no question that soldiers
may he taken from any ship, as they urn
contraband In the highest sense, We
contend thai these men aie engaged In I
warlike operations, stirring revolutions I
ami conspiracies. They left Shanghai
because II became too hot for them i
there. They Intended to go elsewhere to i
continue their activities.
"I am not aware thai Ihe Pulled
Slates vvlll demand the release of those
over military age, but If such a demand
is made wo must wait and Fee its basis."
Hegiudllig the seizure of the malls,
Lord Itoliert said:
"Germany's overseas trade Is m
crippled that It remains only to the ex
tent nf between 4 and 6 per cent. It is
Cenffiiurd on Third Pnr.
ALMA MYERS
IS FOUND AT
PORT JERVIS
East Orange Girl. 31issing
a Week. Ran Away to
Escape a Suitor.
HAD CLASHES WITH
II1.M DAIMV'IV
I ill 1 Jl II IV.
Pol.T .Ii.i.ms, N V, Apnl ; -Miss
Ahn.i Fuller .l.vers. Is .veils old, of SO
Islington riwit, Hast Orange, X. .1., for
whom the peine of .New Jersey and
New Viuk hmMici-M penciling since Inst
home of n wealthy hardware merchant.
TT H'mi
; ,M,.v,iiv innrnlng and had been I
known lute for tin- last thtee days as
(:,a'''' W" y'""'
"g buslnei mid ptotei'slonal olllces
,....i,i., r..,. .. i ,,.,-.ee.l ml.
Cnable lo gft a position as stenographer
with Hie I. liter lomran.v Mil agreed to'
work as a domestic in the home of Mr.
Sw iiilou.
Alls. I.i!.. Wiiiltal.er dlscoveii-d in
.the Miss Davis a I esembhinc e to the
missing .Miss Mveis She confided her
suspicions to Steph.-u Campbell, chief of
pollie. who Vislteil the young womnn
nnd learned that he had passed some
Line In PieMous .viars at Mlllrlft. Pa..
whele shr with her patents went during
the summer months, she nl-o toiil ot
., ... .i.-it.. ii
me hiowihiib m .1 oruiiu-i n in,- mm-
tin; .liowtilng .if .. uro .. er m me ,,, .-
Kill ' liver at Mlilillitovvn. N Ill Ma.
M M1""fl t,,K "o1"- ' ""M
no one by th- tiaiiie of Davis ami he
..1. 1 r,,. ,.,r..r.,,.. ... 1.1,.. ,, 11,11.-
y. ,,
u. s." s... -
. I. VV.. -A Ji m
- Meis nf L.isl tir.uiKe.
I'nlher fnlnts oil llrnrlnit .
The news of the finding of the girl
was sent to-night to her parents In
their home in Kant Orange by long ills-
tan telephone. The girls father
f:ilnte,l when at the teleiihoue. and H
a , . . .,.
woitlan who took up tiie tecelver said
that the mother was also n a serious
,niwllllriti Tit,, unman at Ibej leleohone
--- ---- - -
"flJ thl ah would tiy to catch an
,,-rl tralii at Patersou at 9 :50 ocloc
'" get to Port .lrUs to-ulglil.
11 conversation with the newspaper
ll,tl till- Clfl S',1 Id
... ,,,., .-,1.1,,. ...nenliif.
' , " . , . " ",1
,'?lV(?lt "
of. Uin UyM ,?v , .t-'i
' ron 1 ,'.n""". .,0. 1 f".,.-'?, "
aiuinaj a ius,,r, ... ... ........i-i.
House until Wednesday since which
.. 1 , 1 W... . ...... 1l...
4II1III ,
I have not been employed since Jan-
uaiy, when I was In the service of the
Denmson Manufacturing Company,
John stteet. New York, m the art de
n.irtiiieiit I had alwavs lived ut home. .
l.i,, 1 ,mil. I tint nliviiv. nnrrepi with nic
-- "
1110.h(,p nn.i ametlmes with my father.
..V .,., i,. h.en ,,v1i,t ntte.,- i
tioll t me In Orange, but I did not
11K him. and whenever 1 went out hs
ti..,i , T nm. nwav nut of tbe
'',IIoBe.,l 1 ca"" "fl oul.,m
cl,y 'lt'nl"f',, to 'WW ow"
CllllOe.
.., ha(. 110 brothers or sisters. My
i..,.i 1...1... ,-nrii.i.. tv.,e. "i
My
,.Mr, ,,,, waa ,r0wned at Mli'ldletown.
y
' .. believe lh.it If I remained home
, wouil be annoyed by this man,
whom I did not lli.e. lie was aias
wa..1K for in.- and forced his atten-
i uniB upon me."
U was :muou,.csd Inst u'mii b the ..string of bombs, the tin cases shooting
Itei. John '. Donnell at the home oftmo ,ne r.
Aflss Mcr. Cast Or.iiiKe. that ihe joung The blazing oil ponied lino the waters
woman will remain In Poit .lerv.' for a ,,f Newark Hay ami the Kill Van Kull,
t.uv ilavs Mr Donnell, who Is lector m,i rrr.ni clouds of smoke drifted and
of St Thomas's Protestant episcopal
htirth. which Miss Myers intended, said I
tne ulrl was safe and sound.
n Mitfmeiil iF mrmm.
"Her pan-lit have decided to make
tu, st.iteuiel't now." he added, "because
ti,.y want to make her return as easy
M possible,
Her mother and father me
heie now.
It was believed that
Mr Mjei in-
point on the uric.
Miss Mv.rs ilroiin.,1 out of sluht last
Satuid.ty 'night after visiting the home
of Mrs. Arnold Nettel, a friend, at 1130
Itryant avenue, The Hronx. Mrs. Nettel
accompanied ihe girl to the Simpson
slieet subway station, which is elevated
and bade her good night. A train was
coming In at the lime, ami Miss Mers
ran to board 11 Mrs. Nettel said she
saw the girl enter the station and that
was Hie last word received concerning
her until she was found In Port Jervls.
A most active search was prosecuted
by the police of many eillen nnd iiumei
ens Mippoied clues turned out to be
valueless, Members of the girl's family
mid many of tn-i- fileuds dismissed from
their minds any thought that n lomance
v.-n.s responsible for her dlsappeanince.
Mrs. Myeis dcrl.iied as lale us yester
day afternoon that she was positive her
daughter hint no love affair
PORTC HESTER GIRLS MISSING,
line I'o und li n Polleemnn, lint
Oilier I still llelnu Snniibl
nei-e ..ske.l i :.v in iiei,, i i,7.
search for Nellie Markley, aged 2u
i years, daugliter of Frank Jl, Marklev.
and Doris Ponly, nse, I,;, ih,iiKlilci of
Dlediich II. Polity, of PortchcMer. both
of whom disappeared from their homes.
Miss Markley was found by n police
man In Westchester avenue, Porlchester,
lo-nlghl. She would not say anything
ns to her wluieabouts since leaving
home and wfuseil lo tell If Miss Ponty
had been with her.
No trace has been found of J-j
Ponly, whose father Is an architect.
ENGLAND CALLS MARRIED MEN.
Ilrllnn llrtvvrrn ii.l anil :ia Iran
Must Join Colon,
London, April ".The fiist group of
married men was called to the colors
to-day by the War Ofllce,,
The group consists of men between 35
and 32 years of ace.
ALL TYPES OF REPUBLICANS
JOIN IN LAUDING MR. ROOT
Following is the formal statement launching Elihu Root's
boom for the Presidency:
ELIHU ROOT is th. ablatl living American.
.The next four years will be critical l'n tho life ami Inilueiue of the
people of the United State. New and vitally Important problems
confront the American people. Not only tho domestic questions of na
tional prosperity, of economic nnd Industrial readjustment, of the so
cial welfare and of the best use "of our natural resources are pressing
for solution, but the international policy of the n.illon Is now to be defined
In terms of pre.-ent day needs and relations.
At this time Hie nation requires Its best trained, most expetlenced and
most thoroughly tested leader In the highest executive office. After six
teen jeara of devoted public service an Secrctury of War, Secretary of
State and Senator of tho United States, Klllni Hoot stands preeminent
ainons contemporary Americans as u constructive, fur flghtod nnd forward
facing statesman. While lie has declined to become a candidate for even
tho highest political office, jet If nominated for the Presidency by tho
coming national convention at Chicago Ills sense of public duty must com
pel his ucceptntice.
Am Amnlcans', believing In an American policy at home and abroad,
anil in proper picpar.illoit lo express nnd to defend such n p4lcy, we
favor tho nomination of Klllni Itoot for the Presidency if the United States.
NICHOLAS Mt:utlAV llfTUKIt. l!eSte
EI.OX It MROtVX. Ilelenie.
.i.v.iir.s A IirittlKN .11!
KltA.SVIs S JIANGS
fOMNKI.lt s N lll.lss. a'i I', i. -i
OTTO T UASNAItl). Ufleaale
CiUHLKS II. I1KTT. I.vec
.ItssK llltAVTON. Plica'
.1 I) IU9IIKCIKI). Lyons
SAMt'KL J JtOACH, Home
LmVAIl!) C. JlLl'M. llrnol.,11
CltAltl.lIS i: lll'SII. Krr fin n
JIMKPH II. CIIOATK
ALFONSO T CLi:UWATj:n K iii- m
II KfLTON Cl'TTINU,
tiKUItllK CltOMVVKLI Iislrs.nr
.1 C CI.'RIIS Allllilll. Ilclffiite
1IKNHV I. tl.VVfsON
CIIIACNCKV M J)i:PKW. Jelrsl
TVKPS IH'ltuV. Pillion County
ISHAKI. T K IiCVIl. Ilin.-hJinli.ii
JAMKS C KntlKHT
IXJt.'IS W. :MKK0.'. Wmen Co lir:r;4ir.
SAMt'KL W PA I It CHILD.
WILLIAM 11. C.I.TIIUIE.
KIGHT RBV DAVID 11 GHKKIi
S W UKIt'FITII. Palmyra 1
JOn K IIKDGKO. De'esate
AI.KXANDLIt J IIKMI'llll.t
JOHN 1IKNKY IH.MMONIi
.tOIIN .1 KNKWIT. lhot.v
i'HOMAI A K1RHV. Allvo
L. P I.OHK.K
I.ATKS VV MfCAHHAGII
CHESTEIt n M.UCGHLIN IVa H-nr
JOHN 1). MILllfRN
H C MANDEVILLK. Klmua
Huljert Uncoil last night mad the following statement
"Having been asked by many friends to Mute publicly which Piesl
dential candidate I favor for nomination by the llepubllcan party t desire
to say thsl my llrsl ihoke I Khhu Hoot, my sci'ond choice, Theodore
Hoosevelt.
1 have the gi cutest admiration and personal esteem for them both,
born of many enis of rlo'e Intimacy and I llieve that the election of
either one of them by the Republican party upon a declaration of American
principles and Ideals such as hus been iently made by them both will
bring home to the national consciousness a true appreciation of the
country's Intel national obligations and responsibilities in the performance
of which we have signally failed of late."
KILLS TURNED INTO
MASS OF LIQUID FIRE
liinollllC,
8-J75.000 Hlnzp ill
Ontrovs l'icr anil Two
I.oaiIoiI Hnrg;'i.
A naietftont file that sent up clouds
ot thick nmoke in which flew exploding
cans of kerosene and gasolene destroyed
a pier, two loaded barges and kerosene,
i..... u t.n...lu i.........A..l.t
K.uipur mill iuf un uniicin iiiiiuinti nwie
. .. . ... , ....
yieraay .uiernoou aim rvrimm aim
iiat iuwiv iii.rft-u ' it;uHis '
tanks. The Texas Company of Hayonne.
X. .1., whose pioperty was destroyed, lost
I probably 1:73,000.
Tln fire etartwl on a cowugaieu iron
1 pier of the Texas Company at the foot of
w K;m ' , ,',
ii r.rsi sine. 111 11
section of H.iyonne. Tl
long and i feet wide.
the Hergen J'olnt
The pier, 400 feet
was piled with
kctis ami till cusen of gasolene, fJO.000
gallons In all. and several hundred bar
t els of kerosene, A few moments ufter
it began these were exploding like
huior low over Port lth hmond and iJther
stateu Island towns, turning tho twl-
Ilurit almost Into darkness The rain of ,
Miming cans descending and the heat
exploiliil the e.ing of keinsene on a
llfly tout Kirge that was tied to the dock
and could not be fowed off In cause of the
I IU;'J'1.' , n
IIIIS UillKI1! luiliuu !, s,,vfi. ........-.
ol ki'ioseiie, became at once a lire ship,
the explosions of the kerosene adding to
the to.ir. The burning oil spread over
the Kill Van Kull netrly to tbe Staten
Island shore, making the Kills, as they
are called, a rains of llmild lite,
I. .1..... ..-!-,. I .. iu kl.tfllMn- fruiM
..irniiiiuif- - r.. .......
noitnvvesi 10 norm, anu inr iiKiurr i.ui-
began to fall dangerously near the six
meat storage tank of the company, eacli
of which holds from UO.UOO to 45,000 gal
lons of gasolene, The nearest wan only
400 feet f I om the land end of the burning
pier. It seemed only a question of
minutes when one or nil of them would
explode with trenundmiH force which
might imperil the entire plant ami per
haps the waterfront.
Hy this time Chief Davis had out the
entire Ilayonne File Department and
engines from Jersey City, together with
three Standard OH tlreboats and one
fiom the Tide Water Oil Company. He
called for two ilrnboats from New York
and kept the big tanks soaked with
wuter. Luckily the wind veered again
and saved the tanks.
Tiie thin borne flaming oil set the
to another oil dock below the first
one, at which was nnoored a second
barge loaded with 40,000 gallons of
oil. At Hist it was thought this barge
could be towed out of danger and the
small Hies smothered with water, but
i i. ..... . I.... n.!.A 1.4...... I. ..I ...
I'ort Itichuiond shore
BARNEY'S FORTUNE TO CITY.
SUnle Maker Leave IHMI, I lo
sirliiKHelil, Muss.
Si'iilMniUI Ii, Mass., April i. The uty
of Spi Ingtleid was It'll virtually tin- en
tire estate of the late llierett II. Harney,
skate manufacturer, who died on March
;l in Sarasota,' 1- la., amounting to ap
proximately $600.(100, through the terms
of the will tiled In Probate Court late
this afternoon, soon after Mr. Harney's
funeral,
The estate comprises real estate In
Florida and this city, the Florida prop
erty being valued at 1150,000, The re
mainder of Ilia estate comprises the
Barney e Iterry Manufacturing Com
pany in this city and Mocks and bonds.
In his Springfield holdings Is his lute
honied Teconurlc Villa, together with a
fund for Its maintenance for one year.
AllTHUR Jl MASTON
lAlUIS M. MMITIN. Chilton.
JOHN II. MOFKATT. Plittsbuu
KIIGIINK II. OtITKIUlKIIMSK
JOHN PARMJiNTKR. i.-iicvj
lilAllIXS A I'KAIRIDV
IIKNRV s PRITC1IKTT.
CDMfND PLATT. PouhUff p-ie
W. A iqtKNDEROAST. Ilriioklyn, Drleiste.
CIIAIILKS II HOC. E US. t.'tlca
llt'SII KHKES, Koehrmrr.
ItF.V. KMIL HEII.AND.
CONGRESSMAN R. II. SANFOHH
HENRY L. STI.MSON. Drlejate
JOHN A. SLEICIIER. Trov.
GEORGE It. MIF.I.DON, Dflfll
rHAKI.ES II. SAIIIN
JAMES It SHEFFIELD. Ilslffate
FIIEDKttlCK STRAINS.
WAAC N SKLHiMAN.
HENRY M. SAUK. Albiny. Dolrtalr
SKVHYN II. SHAR1'K. Kliuston
E G STALEY, Albany. Delrsatr
MOM EH SNYDER, llcrklmrr. lielmale
THOMAS T1IACIIER.
HAY TOMPKINS. Elmira
WILLIAM II. TRPEMIALK
1 V WADSW0RT1I. JR. Livlnlon Co,
ll"'er.lte
HKEKMAN WINTHROP. N,au Count.
IIHONSON WINTHROP
VI.IIERT II. WIGGIN.
s VMPKL WALLIN. AmlsnDm Dflsia'r
WIIJ.IAM WATsON. W.rsaw, Urlttmr
WILLIAM WILLIAMS
GEORGE W WHITEHEAD, Masara Fall!
FRANK WITIIERBEE. Er Cnmilt
E -STAGG WIIIT1N.
PLOTTED TO KILL ALL
I OF EUROPE'S RULERS
Lots IliaWII. SflVX AlllUcllisI j l
,, , . .
. tlllt"MIMI III L lllliliJH
Authorities.
i'HIC.vi.o. Aplll T Dcteune.s teaich
itig thtougli the anarchist clubs of Chi
cago for a clue to the whereabouts nf
Jean Crones, who poisoned the soup
served at the banquet to Archbishop
George W. Muiideleln, have uncovered a
Plot to assassinate alt of the ruins of
Europe, nccordlng to a statement made
to-night by State's Attorney Hojne The
Information caino to tho State's attorney
through an anarchist who says that he
attended secret meetings at which lot-
were drawn to pick the assassins.
'A certain anarchist has in.nie ,,
wiitteii statement In my olllce," .Mr.
llone said, "that tin International plot
exists to assassinate alt the tillers of
Kurope.
"1 have pi unused to Withhold tiie
Identity of my Informant. 1 have in
vcstlgators Hying to obtain coiroboratlve
evidence. if they .succeed 1 II .ut.
Otherwise 1 cm do nothing.
"This mall staled that se. 1 1 1 tnei t
lugs have been held In Chicago and a
number of other cities und that lie
attended a meeting m this city :.t wiibii
lots weie diawn for Ihe puipos,. of
picking the assassin, II.. ai,i tli.it tin.
HieetlliKs wern coiiilucl.il with sib h se
ciecy that only the man chosen for
the crime and the chairman or leader of
his group of anarchists h.nl knowledge
of the jiaittcul.tr ruler sinsltd out for
death.
"My Informant, declared that poison
ing of the uiiests at the .Mmuli-leiji ban-
I . ... .
i um i was nn outcome oi ine sain,- cian
MtUio Catherines.
"He asserted that the lank iilnl lite of
the uuaivhlsts attending the meet
Iiiks were kejit In Iguoiaiice of the Iden
tity of the leaders or moving spirits in
the Intrigue for fear that some one
might cause :ui expose.
"My Incestlgatori weie niiiuiimg Into
the K)lsonlng of the men ut the Arch
bishop's banquet when they uceideiitiilly
stumbled upon Infoi mation which led
to the tlndlng of the anarchist who
later came to my olllce und gavo me
information of the alleged plut to ex
terminate Ihe cioivui-d heads nf Lu-
.
"Of com so all I lould do was taker
the man's story for wh.it it was north
and then put Investigator- to woik to I STATE (J. 0. I'. LEADERS
suusiuiiiiuiu or iiisprovn 11. .viy men
ure making every effort now to lli.it
end.
"As it stands I have no evidence I
meiely have Infoi mation. I can take no
action without corroborative evidence.
If I cm wet corroborative evidence, 1
cm tin u my fuels over to the Govern
ment "The sinry told by Hie unauiust sin
Plised inn very much, because of Hie
luiullleutlons of the alleged Intrigue.
"I questioned the man at length be.
ciiiise of the seiiaiitlonsl nature nf blu
stoiy, hut he adhered to hb, original
statements and lelteiated tli.it he in--lually
attended one, of the meetings in
Chicago and was a witness, in ib,. draw,
lug of lnls to choose an assassin."
The assassins were in use poison, ac
midline to tliii prosecutor' Information,
"Tho whole plot was supposed lo be
evceptloually well worked mil," Mr.
Iloyne lontlnued. "From what I gather
the poisoning was to be engineered
through Inner circles In a way that the
plotters had some assuruncu their pl.ms
would not ml.scai i j "
When asked If tho anarchist who sup
plied the Information rnncernliig the al
legrd plot wiw under arrest ur hi custody
Mr. Iloyno icpllcd In the negative, !nu
added that he knows the name, hh
whereabouts and can "easily icaoli hlra
whenever he wants to."
RICE TWO CENTS.
Ig.o.p.fagtions
: join hands in
B00MF0RR00T
17 Delegates to Convent ion
JncliHlod in Indorsees
of Ca'ndidac.v .
STATE COMMITTEE TO
-SHOW STATUS TO-DAY
Meeting Expected to llesnlt
in Display of Strength
ly IMval Leaders.
IIAI.DING WILL HE
CHAIKMAX .IIJXE 7
Progressives See Challenge
in Ohio Senator's
Election.
Seventy-four prominent tucintieis of
th llepubllcan party, including repre
sentative of all factions, have foi
inally declated themselves in favor of
the nomination of Kllhu Itoot for tho
Presidency. Seventeen of tlivso an
delegates to the Republican naliom.1
conventlfiii.
At the meeting of Hie lt.'pnlillc.in
.State committee to-day a list "C
strength is expected to bo made in be
half of the rival candidacies of Mr.
Hoot Justice Hughes and Col. House,
veil.
Col. Hoii-evelt rcieived ninny assur
ances yesterday that his strength was
growing rapidly In the ranks ol th
Republican patty, nnd sentiment In hU
favor was said to ls especially sttong
In Pennsylvania. West Vltgluia und 011
the Pacific coast.
Warren C. Uurdinc. l nitui .Stati
.""cnainr irom Ohio, was chosen tem
porary Vhairmau of the Hepublicsn
national convention, to be held Juoc 7.
The decision to itiaku Mr. Harding
i chairman i-i tulten to mean that tli.'lilil
fiinml Is deterniliKd to hold control of
1 ihe convention.
j Progressives in Washington nnd tho
. - ii...-- .. ,.- .,,r,,i, ,,it, ,11 ,! itn- ,,
j feat of Leader .M.inn. whose cnlldldai'i
j they had urged in a telegram to th.'
! sub-committee. Hoosevelt's tiii uds sev
1 a rhallengo from the did Guard.
Gov. lit uniliniigli nf t'l'iinsjiv.inla -Mied
n statement accusing Senato's
Penrose ami Oliver of tiling to drive
him out of tin- Presidential iioiuln..
tlon race by threatening to expos: an
alleged campaign fund s.-iindal
DOOM FOR ROOT IS
FORM A I A. V LA UXCIIFI)
7 1 I'riiiiilneiil Members ul VII I ' it
lions of Ii. II. P. Hi-clnri' lur II In..
The boin of Ullbu Hoot for tin- l: -
J publican niimliutnui for the Pniieiu
was formally ktiincbid last hIl-Ih when
seventy-four proinliuM members of hi
patty, of all bullous. Including seven
Ken delegates to the Chicago . nnvi nlloii
and on.- alf.ru. ilc. Issued a Maitmciil
I deehirlinr themselves in favor i.l los
' nomination.
Tiie st.it. ment isMied last iilnht was
the outcome of tius'ting held jisterday
at tin- I'nlon L.-agnc Club in the afin--noon
nnd .it the Par Assucinthtn last
lllcllt II was whispered In utt.V'l
uuaileis ta.it itv-otild not be nni pccl.-il
lit ii.Vhl.-r l:.i and may have bun ills,
iilssiil at tile In 11. lr. on given I I'm in. 'f
Ambassador llaco.i last w.ik, at whlcli
liiiili Mr. Itoot and Theodore Koosevci
Well- guests
Mr I'.icoii iiin-cf ,ii a -upp.. tnctit.il
siati incut issued simultaneously ,,isi
night declares m I ivnr ot Mi Itou .
with C'd. Uooscv.lt as Ins ec. oinl i-.uin . .
Ill tin sevint.v -ti.ui names I t.i .. iicU
to the .iniuiunceinei.i Ian limit Ii
men nlld auti-llarni men. old glial .1 lb -
publ.c.ms and sn-calltd lionvsiv i s nii.l
unheal llcpulilicans louow one .mimic. .
Senator Hlou H. Hiown, Ucpuhltcan
leader In the Senate, follows Nn hnl.iK
Muua Hutlcr and Is in turn pillowed
by James A. Huiden, .lr Henry I..
Slimsoii signs, with It. Pillion Cutting,
and on both Miles of them ale Mr.ituiil
organUatlon nn-u of Inns . pv.-n no
There ui ii bankers, law .v. rs, business
men, professional men. iiiiii.st. rs. headed
by lllshup Grcci, men who have mn f
been actlvi-l.v lnteristcd 111 p-illl s be
fore and tni-n who have always l i a
I I,.. ,,, ..nlltl. s
WILL CLASH TO-DAY
I u in in 1 1 1' l Test Mi-i-iiul Ii ut
Hoot, llooscvcll nml llliulns
lliioins.
Alter one of the busicsl days tliev
have bad in mouths Hepublicin leaden
In New Voik uty came to the con-lisi)n
Inst night tint the meeting of the new
State lOmmittcc .it th" Iti.publii .in linn
to-d.iy may go down In history us nu
occaslun long to be icniemb.-ied. liver; -thing
seemed framing up for n light
that would put to a llnnl h-M the loca
tion of control ui this Si, iic,
It Is admitted on nil sides Ihat ihe
fcl.ilcniellt of Col. Hoiisevell has lit lc,is
8ivm to -Mr- Humes and ihe other ( uj
line leaders of tin- patty an niipoiiuiiiti
lo have a ill'- isniii made as l.i wh.-i,,
they Mann vv.ib the o.miu ,. ganu.,.
tioll. Tho . .iiididlii v nt t-ii C da u-1
sets I'm In - i.uetmng t.ingib'e .iUii.
which tin ililTticiii i-s tn. il ,.m- Im.mi
growing within tin p.iny il-n -g - .-in.
months can be rhistcioi. , 1 ,
tho sltuutiwi, a vailciy n m,i ( ,
to be argued and rnusiu nni cii -.-
I
I
