utin
WEATHER
MARKETS
NFW YORK ClTV
Average price of cop
per for week ending
April 5, 26.31
Arizona
FAIR Warmer.
Associated Press Special Leased Wire Service.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, SATURDAY MORNING, APi""?, jf
VOL. 18, NO. 270.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
5 II 1 BEE
Y CA
ft Oy ff
I IE! FOR ANY USE WHATEVER
i ,
CM ill!
AA
DE FACTO
MINISTER GIVES
STATEMENT
AFTER MEETING
OF FIRST GRIEF'S CABINE
"I REFUSE" SMS LB
I
KB RQBER
mm
Gen. Candido Aguilar, Minister of Foreign Relations, Gives
Associated Press Statement that "The Railways Have Not
Been Given to the American Government for Any Use"
-r-Mexico will be Asked to Define Her Attitude.
'
(By Review Leased Wire.)
QUERETARO, April 7. The Mexican government has not given the
American government permission to use Mexican railways for any purpose
whatever, said General Candido Aguilar. Mexican Minister of Foreign Rela
tions, after a meeting of the Carranza cstinet today.
At the cabinet meeting General Carranza and his advisors discussed the
modifications suggested by the United States in the recent proposals for an
agreement for crossing the frontier betvven tho United States and Mexico
by the armed forces of the respective governments. The latest proposals of
the Washington government were received here yesterday, having been sent
hr Fliren Arredondo. Mexican minister-designate to the United States.
General Aguilar denied vigorously stones printed in the American press;
to the effect that the Carranza government had given permission to tne i n
ited States army forces to use Mexican railroads for transportation of food
stuffs and supplies.
""Please rectify these false statements, said General Aguilar to the As
sociated Press. "The Mexican government has not given the American gov
ernment permission to use Mexican railways for any purpose whatever."
T ANSWER TO GER
DECISIVE STEPATTITOOTOF THEIAK
I CECIL!
'S SPEECH
question
ENGLISH IS
GIVEN TO
PRESS
WILL ASK DETAILS
WASHINGTON, April 7. General
Carranza agreed, about two weeks ago,
to "commercial" use of the Mexican
Northwestern Railroad for shipment
of supplies destined to the United
States troops in Mexico, and such ship (
nients already are being sent over the:
road by private parties.
Special agent Rodgers at Queretaro
now has been informed to urge the de
facto government to issue immediately
necessary orders to define specifically J
to what extent local authorities on tbe
border may permit the road to be used
for such commerce. It is assumed
1'cro that the statement of General (
Aguilar was made to reassure the Mex- j
lean people that the government had
not allowed the American expedition
to ti:ke control of the road.
BREST! AGAIN
APPEARS
THE BLACK
SEA
President and Cabinet Again Minister of Wa j in the British
Confer on the Matter. Ger-1 Cabinet Takes Germany
man v will be Given Full Od- i to Task for Bombast and
INCREASE
BILL IY BE
DISPOSED OF
SOON
portunity to Explain.
Vain Protestations."
I ENGLAND AND ALLIES
Germany is Trying to Be
cloud the Issues in the Eyes
of Neutral Nations.
(By Review Leased Wire)
WASHINGTON. April 7.-Prc:.ident , WILL STAY TOGETHER
Wilson and his cabinet discussed atj
length today, the recent attacks on ' Cabinet Member Declares that
merchant vessels carrying Americans
and agreed to defer any decisive act
ion while awaiting the, German govern
ment's reply to the inquiry of Ambas
sador Gerard as to whether German
submarines sunk the Sussex. English-
man, Manchester Engineer and tagle
Point.
The President and Secretary Lan
sing expect the desired information
from Berlin to arrive al any time. A
1 preliminary report from Mr. Gerard, j German
said in official dispatches to have been
forwarded from Berlin, had not arriv
led here late tonieht.
I President Wilson left Washington
D . . ; tonight on the naval yacht Mayflower,
Russian Meet, Presumably, taking with him complete datn on the
Has Former German War-' Sussex And other cases prepared for
f r i C I D 'him al ,ne Slate Department. He ex-
smp uut from its case inp(,c,s . be away until Su.,day nis;u
the BosphorUS. lor Monday morning unless definite
word from Berlin is received in the
(By Review Leased Wire.) I meantime. Any information w ill be
PETROGRAD via London. April 7.-8et, bi' immediately by wireless
Altnmi''h Kiini.. ranking nmeinls nf
" Vawo gt tViA unHrlon onnpflranrii n f flirt . .... . .
ih.i tho r-arranra government " ' v itne rovi rnment already nave conciua-
has asked, formally or otherwise, for former German cruiser Breslau in the Ud that Germany is deliberately attack'
the withdrawal of American forces in Black Sea. whinn it had Deen assumea ; ing vessels, regaruicss oi me r.uius
Mexico were disposed of tonight by a was completely under Russian control: neutrals, it is declared authoritatively
statement from Secretary Lansing. He the Turkish cruiser's short and inef-Uhat the United States cannot question
flmly denied that such a request had fectual duel with a Russian warship; the German government's good faith
t een made, formally or by intimation ! and her subsequent disappearance, '. until full opportunity has been allowed
or suggestion, was received here with considerable : lor a response io AtiiDassauor .erara s
ANOTHER DENIAL OF REPORT
WASHINGTON. April" 7. Recurring
(By Review Leased Wire.)
LONDON, April 7. Lord Robert
Cecil,' minister of war. today made a
sharp reply to the speech in Reichstag
of Dr. von Bctli.T.ann-Httlweg, the
imperial chancellor. Con
versing with correspondents at the
loreign oflico. Lord Robert said the
suggestion that Germany might aban
don her submarine warfare if Great
tritain relaxed her food blockade.
Administration Leaders in
Congress Are Hopeful the
Measure Will Be Acted On!
by Senate with Promptness.
(By Review Leated Wirew
THE DAY IN CONGRESS
SENATE
Met at noon. Resumed debate
en army reorganization bill.
Recessed at 3:50 p. m. to 11 a.
r.;. Kriurday. '
house
Met at 11 a. m. Debate on Riv-,
ers ami Harbors appropriation bill
continued. '
Military committee, arranged to .
hear Secretary Baker on the army
appropriation hi,!.
Insular committee recommended
passage of (he Philippine indepen
dence bill a it was passed in the
Senate.
Adjourned at H:09 p. m. to II
p.. m. Saturday.
WASHINGTON, April 7. Adminis
tration leaders in Congress are hope-
U ill Vlr.ilTf ltL'.'li- 1 1 j oH eirt u i n...l In
Great Britaia wliich hud no laith thai he ihtve SrHa' national defense meas
any profuse made ly Germany regard-
(By Review Leased Wire.)
EL PASO, Tex.. April 7. For days
reports have been current ere that
trouble was brewing in Juarez and at
other points where Carran.a troop"
fill that the army increase bill, first of are concentrated in a proximity to the
in
sucmarine warlare would be kept.
Gerina.iy slackened her submarine
warfare for some time when the opera
ures, will enter its linal stage nexr. max tonight la information trum pre-
weefe before the joint conference com- J sumably responsible sources that the
It was stated, however, that
a-'th Russian fleet which was guarding
inquiries and for a determination of
whether subniarine commanders are
attacking vessels contrary to interna-
Mr. Lansing explained that when the j surprise.
American expediiion was ordered
cross the border to pursue Villa. Gen-1 the approach to the Bosphorus from
eral Carranza had inquired of the ( the Black Sea had been compelled temltional law.
State Department regarding the pro-' porarily to withdraw and thus permit; The administration virtually has con
posed strength of the force and cam- the Breslau to slip by their guard, j eluded that a German submarine tor
paign plans contemplated. Since then , OnP commentator ingenuously acipedoed the Sussex and officials now
t h" de facto government has been kejit ! counts for the occurrence as a fine 'consider th point at issue to be
advised constantly regarding tbe prog- piece of Russian strategy which en-' whether Germany will adequately pun-
rcss of the chase. . ticed the Turkish warship into the isn tne onicer responsime. just wnai
Belief in some quarters that Carran-' eastern part of the Black Sea with the
za had asked or soon would ask howl purpose of hunting her don with a
much farther into Mexico the United 1 superior Russian naval force. The
States intended to send its soldiers Breslau now is apparently cut off from
las been based on the belief that Vil-Jher base by Russian ships near tho
I.-'s trail was getting "cold," recent' Bosphorus, which are showing great
State Department advices have given activity and it is thought here that the,
no clue to the outlaw's whereabouts, cruiser eventually will be cornered by.
The last report, several days ago,
had hi mlocated near Satevo. Since
then th Department has reported an
inatility to secure any further clue.
An eiicouraging feature of the cam
paign today was found in reports to
both State and War Departments in
dicating actual co-operation between
the American and de facto government
troops. News from the border was to
the effect that the Americans had pen
etrated as far south as Cienguellas,
near Satevo.
A telegram from Consul Letcher at
Chihuahua through Gen. Bell, reported
an engagement at "Cieneguilla" on
April 4 between Carranza troops, un
der General Gavazos. and fifty Villa
-ndits, in which the outlaws lost 10
killed and two captured. Letcher also
confirmed reports of the fight April 1
between Tenth Cavalry troops under
Colonel Brown with a Villa band at
Aguas Calientes, in which between 30
and 40 outlaws wcrP reported killed.
The consul's report quoted Col.
P.rown as saying that for two weeks
his command had subsisted largely on
beef and corn, but that a mining com
pany had brought in a special train of
Fupplies, including forage, to replenish
tie American stores. Officials believ
ed it was possible the special train of
supplies referred to was one which
left Juarez yesterday.
Difficulties of communication were
indicated by the fact that Consul Let
cher's despatch was on the Mexican
wires and addressed to General Bel at
Kl Paso instead to the wireless. Thu
State Department received official re
ports tonieht that food prices had ris
en materially during the Ipst few days
over fu percent in some instances. Re
ports fiorii Acapnlo and other interior
points said conditions were quiet.
Tranquility along both the eastern and
western Mexican coasts was reported
to the navy department.
the Russian Black Sea fleet.
punishment would be considered ade
quate apparently has not been deter
mined. The statement of Dr. Zimmermann,
under secretary for foreign affairs,
that in such an event Germany would
be ready to meet the United States
"more than half way," was read with
interest, but judgement was reserved
The only actual fuudation for any
mittee. Indications tonight were that
the only remaining section likely to
tions of the British navy deprived lvri'use prolonged debate in thp'Senate
ol the freedom of submarines," said was the one fixing the peace strength
Lord Robert "but has now began it! of the regular army,
again. I am convinced that Germany The Senate voted on onil one amend
cannot be trusted to keep any prom- ment to the bill today, adopting with
ises." out roll call the proposal of Senator
Rev iewing the address of Dr. von j Smith of Georgia that enli.-ted men in
Bethniann-Hollweg. Lord Robert said:: the regular srmv liereafif-r be given
"The Chancellor's SDeech covers c.ld nnnnrtunit v for 7f. hours nf vocational i the frontier.
grounds. As usual U claims that the ! education a month during their active
allies have no legal right to blockade j service in peace times. Civilian in- of ,n "lories is in the fact that the
Germany, and appears to think the 1 structors. to aid the army officers in I Carranza soldiers are in need of both
neutrals are of tho same opinion. Yet ' this work, are authorized bv the amend j food anl ProPer clothing. These scl
among all the neutral governments mPnt which specifies wha't the train- di,,rs are be"lK pai'' two p"sos 8 ,,HV'
who have protested against our ac- :ins be. Senator Chamberlain ac-i wortn abo1t four t ents in American
tion, none has been round to argue PI,Ieli 8I11PniI11PI1, when Senator mone:- an,,out of this they have to
that the blockade U in itself illegal : Sn.,;tn r(MH.Pl, ,nP tinlP a0Upd flon) feed themselves. There is a goo. deal
precisely in the Dronoition in which m . -r. . .. ,i. , of unrest and discontent among them.
it is maintained. I Whether this unrest will culminate in
ueupie on various proposals nir wie ; an a(luai rt.Voll is a mooted question
erection of a government plant for the ; DUt ,nat ,M. an outcome is expected
fabrication of atmospheric nitrogen j,y thp ioa officials here is true. A
occupien tnP remainuer ot tne tay. , high citv official said tonieht:
Villa Located At or Near
La Boquilla In Chihuahua
He Is Making for Parral
Code Message from Torreon, Mexico, Received and Indicat
es that Bandit Leader Has Fled Far South and Is About
to Follow Arroyo Path from His Present Headquarters
into the Parral Neighborhood.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
EL PASO. April 7. Francisco Villa was definitely located at La Bo
quilla tonight, according to a code message received here from Torreon.
Mexico. La Boquilla is fifty miles southeast of Sateo and about an equal
distance north of Parral.
The telegram said that te bandit was at Santa Rosalia a couple of
days ago and from there had turned west to La Boquilla. Santa Sosaliu.
is on the Mexican Central Railroad, eighty miles southwest of Chihuahua
City. It was formerly one of the most important mining town in Central
Chihuahua. Some millions of American dollars are said to have been in
vested in the Santa Rosalia mines mid smelter but the place has been
practically deserted since Mexico's present troubles begi.n.
rrnm a:ita Kosaiia, a short spur
on the Central Railroad runs westerly
to La Boquilla. about twenty miles
distant. ThP latter place is the site
.of the famoii:-, Galentine Hot Springs.
(a health resort which rivaled tbe most
; celebrated spas of the continent in
'the days of Portirio Diaz. It was ,un
"by Americans who operated a mas il-
fu ent hotel there, but like Stnta
! Roalia. it has been in solitude for tNr
last two years. The message fr-m
Torreon has again revived the drocp
I ing hopes of a successful terniinasion
1 to General Pershing's expedition.
! American troops are known to hae
i reached Satevo and are believed to
the De Facto have pushed south of that towti. Tb
chance that another brilliant 'la.;h '.ike
I T)ttlrl'tt ri.lo In f !ucrr.irfi tnfiv hriii!
Expected. Rumor is ScOUt- 'the troopers of the United Stare- ur
ed by Consul at El Paso. ; V U
i -r h . . . r .... - . i . I
I liens nun, luiitifu. i; i iiic-14
i that it proves correct, gives fresh sup
port to the belief that ilia s Immedi
ate objective is Parral. From Iji
Boquilla' a great gulch or ravine,
known as the Arroyo Alamo, run di
rectly south towards Parral for a us
ance of over twemy miles. It is
through this arrojo that the banJIr
is exiected to strike toward i'arial.
GARRflNC I STAS
AT JUAREZ
PLAN TO
REVOLT
Trouble with the De Facto
Garrison at Border Point is
border. These reports reached a cli-
garrison at Juarez would revolt on
Sunday night. While the majority of
the stories were to the effect that the
dissatisfaction among the troops f
the de facto govenrmeiit was directed
against Americans there was no ap
parent basis for this belief other than
the general nervousness which had
reen prevalent on the border since
General Pershing's columns crossed
"Germany has openly proclaimed
her intention of blockading this coun
try and has done her best to do so.
We presume her action is iustifiet. " '"
because it is ineffective. i T,'e E,!it of ny Plinth of South! "Matters are reaching a crisis in
"It mav hp wpll to msiL-p a r!r : 1 aronna. rs io appropriate. ior a Juarez. It mav Mow over but if it
answer to this.
ated states anion
chancellor endeavors to show niis-i pa'',v of the government's need in I The representative of one of tho
chief and distrust among them. But peace times, under the proposal, would . biggest American financial concerns
he had failed The allies stand togeth-' " in' "' manufacture of fertilizer to in Mexico adniited privately today
er and have pledged themselves to . pe so!' p.v 'he government through ; that he looked for trouble in the near
make peace in common. The chan-1 "'e Secretary of Agriculture. Senator future unless the economic conditions
HaniwicK ot lieorgia auacKeu mis. in nortnern ninuanua cuangeu- ioi
'the Detler. At tne same nine, i onsui
en io nicihe a ciear , , j ..... -
By singling out separ-'D'ant an" P""'!i! to bP determined by ( does not we can look for an outbreak
ng the allies, the t,ne War Department. The surplus ca-: before Monday morning."
The Breslau appeared not far from until just fhal was meant was made
shore between Trebizond and Offa and ,ciear. u was statea aennneiy inai no,,.,,r fcnoW!, tiij8 well.
her intention evidently was, by bomb- argumentative notes would be sent in- "These neriodical sueeches in the Phase of the amendment as socialistic,
arding the Russian coast positions to Berlin. Reichstag are cunning blends of bomb-j Senator Smith said he had framed j Garcia, admittedly the closest man to
adopt the tactics so successfully em-'. Affidavits on the attack on the Sus-, Bs, ami peaceful protestations. 'the amendment for the purpose of re- General Carnmza on the American
Dloved by the Russian fleet against sex forwarded on the steamer St. Pa. il I ThroiiKh thein all runs the deliberate ' ducing the cost of fertilizer to the side of the border, said tonight :
(Continued on Page Five.)
(Continued on Page Two.)
U I BANQUET AND
PARADE FEATURE ELK FIESTA
Yesterday, more than the previous
day, was turned over to the Elks of
the state of Arizona, many of whom
are visiting the city of Bisbce upon the
occasion of the Filth Annual meeting
of the State Association.
Perhaps it was due to the fact that
all business of tbe association and the
members had been disposed of and
the visitors, with their families, were
able to "mill" around a bit. This they
did and every part of the District
was visited, during the day, by Elks.
The purple and white hat band, with
a white linen duster, for a coat, pro
claimed a "Bill" and where ever and
whenever they appeared they were
made welcome.
The day started with auto trips
over the District and to interesting
sights in the neighborhood. On ac
count of the failure of arrival of the
Tucson Elks' baseball team, the sched
uled ball game, at Warren Park, yes
terday, was cancelled and the visit
ors taken upon a motor trip to Doug
las -the Smelter City.
The balance of the members visited
tbe local mines, interesting sights,
called on friends and made themselves
generally comfortable in the city.
Grand Elks' Parade.
Headed by the city officials and
police department of the city of Bis
bee, the Elks parade left the Homo
promptly at 7 o'clock last evening.
Its course was down Maiii street, up
Brewery Gulch to the Fountain Square
and then back down the Gulch and
to the Home.
Following the city officers came the
Boys' Band, which was in turn fol
lowed ty Uncle Sam. in the person
of Anton Freiberg. In the wake of
Uncle Sam appeared the Elks, both
local and visitors. At their head ahuut
twenty-five carried a monster Ameri
can Hag and was the cause of many
J design to bolster the faith that the I
.German government is first in thej
I world and to forestall and prevent I
that which the German government1
most fears a popular demand in Ger-;
many for peace. Never can the al-j
J lies dignity this attitude by taking it j
I an own ure. i ue ciiaucenor iimiie
I his so-called proposals last year sole
ly that he might be able to refer to
them irtuosly today."
Lord Robert recalled Dr. von Beth
niann's words of December 9. "none
of our enemies has approached with
peace proposals, and they believe it
to be in their interest falsely to at
tribute peace proposals to us", and
the chancellor's statement that if he
was to speak on the peace conditions,
he must first see the conditions of
Germany's enemies.
"It Is clear," Lord Robert continued,
"that the Germans themselves did not
make any proposals, in spite of what
the chancellor now pretends. Even if
he were sincere, and in the precise
proportion as we believe sincere, we
reject with indignation and contempt
(Coniinued on Page Five.)
(Continued on Page 2)
the basis of peace he offers.
outbursts of applause along the line; The chancellor invokes the people
of march. Approximately . 200 meiu- of nationality la Poland and Belgium,
bers of the Elks, attired in white hats. There are two principles of nntion
with purple hamls and white linen ality. One proclaims the simple right
dusters .marched. Following the Elks of each man to free development with
appeared the CoppPr Queen hand and
behind the musical organization ca:ue
his fellows and that looks to thorough
establishment of democratic govern-
over a score of automobiles carrying mnt within each country.
many Elks and their families.
Installation and Banquet.
Lodse Number 17. Bisbee. was
the pieco de resistance last evening
when the installation and banquet
(Continued on Page S)
"The other summons all the pro
fessors from all the universities, cov
ers its political designs in a cloud of
ethnological speach, send out its se
cret agents to foment insurrection
(Continued on Page S)
STATE PROGRESSIVE
MEETS IN CITY THIS
PERSHING REPORTS.
SAN ANTONIO. April 7. -General
Peishing. in a delayed report to Gen
era! PuiiMon. received here today,
confirms previous information that
American troops were moving south
ward from Cusihuiriachic on the trfi!
through Satevo and that all infenea
tiou available at his headquarter
hinted th U Yilia was traveling in the
line of Parral.
He explained his failure to report
more frequently by stating t'i3t aer
plancs upon which h had depends!
had been unable to operate success
fully that whether conditio:: hnd !n
ttrferred with transmission of mes
sages by wireless. He added that he
had not been in communication with
headquarters at Colonia Dutlan for 9
days.
General Pershing informed General
; Funston of the exact position of fie
.; advance columns and w hat the un t.i
were doing.
He said the four pi hates who had
, been wounded at Guerrero were in ii.j
danger and two had almost recover""'.
He did nut report their names. Con
sul Ij'tcher's report that Villa apn-Mr-ed
to be moving sou;h beyond Satevo.
and General Gutierrez' as.-crtions that
his. forces had defeated a band of fif
ty Villa men at Cieneguill is. ten miles
south of Satevo and that Villa him
self had left there on the morning of
the same day. increased the hope
.held at headquarters here that p r
I haps the American ton es might yet
(overtake the fugitive bandit within a
j short time. This revived optimism
whim strengthened by reports appar
ently reliable, that the troops of the
AFTERNOON
select the six delegates to
. de facto government had been sta-
tinned at strategic points south of
i Villa's last reported positions.
I General Pershing reported tat one
'one of is living scouts had located
' Colonel Brown's column at Cusihuiri-
I achic April 5. Here, it was believed
Chicago. ; ,,la tlljs ,imt, jrown after
(By Review Leased Wire)
With the stage set lor-a very sue- I ne Dasis ior me selection win pro ,(, receipt of supplies that arrive!
cessful meeting of the state Progres-'a'ly b,': one fro"' ,le south, one from I a, "u..;,iiiriachic April hail Join.il
sive Committee, members and de!.'
' the Central part of the state, one
' -- 1 f H V I
will be selected to represent the slat ' menti
at the National Progressive Convcn- chica
i from the north and the other three
gates, from various parts of the state. 8elected at random. Prominently
toned as possible delegates to
go are: John C. Greenway. from
tion to be held in I Incago June . ,ne south. Dwight B. Heard, from the
The work of tne conference of the rpntral Don ion. Pete Howell of Pima
......... ...rr ...... .......... u, . ""'jcouniy ami iai sMimvan oi i uiun i ,),,.,,,, undertakers
... .... .......... ........ (-iiuiii. .riueia mr mm kiiu 11 iti .
alone. Nothing which would effe t ' desirous of representing the Progres-I
state politics will be discussed. 'sives at Chicago but the above named!
Advance reports from various parts n.n ,,,.' r -ertin ,f niures on the I
delegation. ! ROBBERS BIND AND GAG
The members are expected to ar-l MAN : SECURE ABOUT $4
rive in Bisbee this morning as is also! t
the Cochise delegation from Douglas' j
.n.i ...h-r nt I l i,s evening, s.iortly before nud-
t i n .M",ir ..h.,ir. ..f ,h.nighf. a man. whose
; in the chase. His was the first cl
i limn lo arrive as far south a Cusi
i huiriachic. but the exhaustion of his
supplies forced him to halt there.
General Funston said today that
sime the campaign against Villa had
began he had received letters fro.a
asking for Villa's
biMly. One of them offered to divide
equally whatever money he niUtit
make out of the gift.
of the state indicate that full dele
gation "ill be on hand rom Maricopa.
Pima. Yuma and Cochise counties.
Thcother counties are also expected
to be liberally represented, also, but
not to such an extent as those enum
erated. The'call for the convention allowed
.ich county two delegates at large
a ".id one additional delegate for every
100 votes cast for Theodore Roos-
committee, will call the convention to
' known at the time.
name was un-
was attacked Just
vclt in 1912. This w ill allow Co-' secretary. Gnr?e B. Willi ox
order and it is expected that he w1!,H,','w '-",' " " ,wo roooers. i ne oo
be made temporary and permanent !'" t a"a o"""'1 -chairman
of the affair. The same , ' and relieved of whHt ..,.,." he
tn hn mnectiMl In the cas nf tnl r-ad on his person l amounted to
..., ... .... u x-.ii. av Ifnmetiiing in tbn n
something in ibP neighborhood of $1.
rhise county sixteen delegates but it! Local members ( the committeei A good description of the men was
is thought that thirty two delegates ha stated that anyone in the War obtained and the officers of tne Dis
will appejr, with one half vote each. rcn District is welcome to attend Hie trict immediately went to work on ili
The convention has full power to deliberations of the convention. case.
