' w
it&ciiJgfajwmnMM w rti v.mp"i
Chelfctejgfmt Wan$
WEATHER FORECAST:
Snow or Rain
(Full Report on Pago Two.)
HOME
EDITION
' "ir ' -yr ' '
.
n
NTJMBEB 8864.
FUNSTON HAS NO
'INVASION'
RIGGS CHARTER MAIN
ISSUE AT HEARING
IN SIDDONS' COURT
Case Taken Under Advisement Attorney
, Hoover For Defendants Denounces Bills
Of Particulars and Says Treasury Is
Limited to Proving Stock Transactions.
That the Comptroller of the Currency may refuse to
re-charter the Riggs National Bank if Charles C. Glover,
William J. Flather, and Henry H. Flather, officials indict
ed for perjury, have not been tried by June 30, was the
principal argument advanced by counsel today in urging
Justice Siddons, presiding in Criminal Court, No. 2, to
force the District Attorney to expedite the perjury trial.
George P.. Hoover, who made the principal argument
for the indicted bankers, asserted that the trial should be
gin on April 24, instead of May 8 as proposed by District
Attorney Laskey.
Eight prominent attorneys were in the courtroom
today in connection with the latest development in the
famous, controversy between the Riggs, Natiqnal Bank and
the Treasury Department. ' Bickering among counsel was
almost constant, as the five attorneys for the bank officials
and the three for the Government'sought to check-mate
the opposition moves.
At one period in the spirited hearing Frank J. Hogan,
of bankers' counsel, declared that James B. Archer, As
sistant District Attorney, had made a statement "as utterly
untrue as ever fell from the lips of man."
Mr. Archer retorted that he was not permitted to in
dulge in billigsgate or resent the remark in court.
SEES NO JUSTIFICATION.
District Attorney Laskey .and Mr. Archer told the
court that the defendants had no justification whatever for
their complaint that their trial hi1 been delayed. Defend
ants out on bail, they asserted, are frequently not tried for
more than two years after an indictment is returned.
"This court has become one of jail delivery," shouted
the District Attorney in his argument in referring to con
gested business. "These defendants should. have no com
plaint whatever, for they were indicted in October and
are to be April. We have sidetracked other cases in which
there were insistent demands for action."
Mr. Laskey said the attorneys for the bankers had also
received an adequate bill of particulars and refuted the
claims as that feature of the case as contained in the mo
tion filed by bankers' attorneys three days ago for a bill
of particulars and a more speedy trial.
The Comptroller of the Currency was brought into
the hearing when George P. Hoover told Justice Siddons
that:
DEFENDANTS
' I'hrae f.efenilMiti- have been advlued
from a sourae they believed to b te
llable that the Comptroller of the Cur
lency muy lefime tn li.ii a chirtor to
the HUks Hunk because theae ofttcora
iro under indictment.
"Furthermore, the Comptroller of the
t'uirenoy U ('iio'cd In U:n proa ns anj
Injr that he would charter the bank
HhU-n If It Ib ml vent when the applica
tion Is niHilo r.r.d If tho of'lccrs proposed
art men of cl aiaotfl, Integrity anil un
I'lemlti'ied itp'itnllon
"The Comptroller of tho Currency In
tliet nun who ciiurmtnea whether they
have, inililni'iVlu'il icputatlona or not.'
"Vea,' Intel jictc-d .Utornov William
0 Johnson, ot bankers' counsel, "mid
Comptiollur William can aa "their
repi.tatlo'iH lire llinlahcd becaiu I
blemished them iiiys-li,"
Interruptions Frequent.
aldcllno Intcriuptlona were not In
frequent at today's hearing, and tho
eonti overs) between counsel forecasts a
hnrd-foiiKlit battle when the perjury
t-aae la heard on Its merits. On sovoial
occastuua Justice Siddons had to ad
mon sh counsel n order that the recog
nized speaker mlKht proceed.
ttoruoH J DatllnRton, Frank J.
IIoksiii William Q. Johnson. QcorRe P.
Hoover, and Danlol W O'Donoghuo
wero tho lepal ropretccntatlvea of Messrs.
Glover Wither, and Flathor. Neither
nf thu bankets uero proscnt.
Assistant Attoine General William C.
1 Itts sat with plstr.'ct Attorney I.asko
und Ins arwlatant, Mr. Archer
Tho opposition attorneys complained
that thu bll' of particular furnished
HAVE ADVICE.
them by the District Attorney con
tulned 32 items ev'dcntly taken from
the books of Iculs Johnson & Co. Such
(Continued on Second Page.)
Three More British
. Ships Destroyed
LONDON, April 8.-Thrce Ulitlsh vca
sela, Including tho liner Chantala. have
been sunk or blown uo within the past
twentv-four hours. In each Instance
the craw was saved.
The Chnttala. a 5.000.ton liner, owned
bv the British India Htcam Navigation
Company, und In aervico between Indian
and Kmzllah oorts. was sunk, tho picas
buicau stated.
Tho Chantala waa built in 1913, was 405
ftct loni, and caulODed ulonir modern
lines.
Tho S.ooo-ton steamer Draunton, 3S0
feet lomr and owned at Cardiff, and
the small Fiivcitlmm rrhooper Clyde
woe blown up.
The tixt of the cable aiiRRests that
the liner Chantala was sunk by a sub
muilne. and the Draunton and Clyde
dcMtrowl bv mines.
Easter Sunday Ideal at Luray
i'avpin.i. flpcelil train. Southern naif
wa, nrll 3. I.eavu WnahliiKtnn. 3-10.
Atixrindila, Ji:.'7 a. m. Hound Trip. .'.
Arrle Washington, 1.15 p. nt.. return
lug. Advt.
WASHINGTON,
MAY
U-BOAT VIOLATED
ORDERS IN SUSSEX
E
'i
German Officials Make Uncon
ditional Disavowal of Attack
on Channel Steamer.
OTHER CASES DIFFERENT
Hi:RLIN. pill S If the chnnnol
atenmer 8ufex, carrylnc Americans,
was torrdoeil liy a German aubmarlio.
the I'-boat commander violated hla In
structions, It wua nlated unconditionally
heto today.
The Himacx vs a pnssenRcr-cnrryins
feny boat, nrcordlns to teports brought
hore.
Sro therefore oatne under the iirotcc
tlon of tho ROtrninent assured to pas
Miir.er liners In a comtnitnlcUlon trans
mitted to rrej-lc'ent Wilton by Ambas
rudor von l.cinitorft after the Arabic
torpedoing.
On tha other land. It wm made
equally plain bete today, the cass of
the four other ships nbout which Presi
dent Wilson him madu Inquiry, an: on
tliely dilTcicnt.
These four sccls wote frelKhters.
Get many at t.o time during U.o nego
tiations pledFed licrself to warn freljht
eis bfforu rttacklnc them with her
submit rinen.
Whllo tlicso f i eight vcsscIh oontlti'ie
to vupply thu a'll'.-f vlth uoth arnmr.nl.
Hon and food, and as lone us the ultlos
continuo tlielr Murvattun policy agalntt
Qcrmanyt tho Qtrmun povernmor.t, tho
United I'resH vaa Informed today. Will
fovor yield the tlfiht to sink them
Submarine Evidence
Is Due Tomorrow
The stibmrine Issue with Oermany
will tv brought In u head within th
next forty-ell t hourc. The ftcamur
Ht. l'aul, brlmsltic; over thi cvldcnra
on which the l.'nltcd States will basu
Up rase aKalnst Germany will dock
at Njw ork toniorrow.
The Diittjh and Fienuh case against
Germany Is contained In this evi
dence. It will mach Washington Sun
day nl.'ht and will be reviewed by
President iWlson oiid Secretary Lan
uk Monday.
The State Department has received
unofficial Information that Ambassa
dor Gerard has been handed Gor
ir.any'w reply to his Inquiries as to
German responsibility for slnl-.lntr the
Sussev and other ships This Is ex
pected to reacli Washington within
twentv-four hours.
Officials admitted ti-day thct the
welfiht of evidence thus far adduced
mipports the claims of the Drlttsh
and French RovcrnmentM that the
Sussex and other vessels carrying
Americans wero torpedoed
Farmers Win Strike
For Milk Increase
T
Big Chicago Dealers Sign Agree
ment to Pay Price Demanded.
Retail Rate Unchanged.
CHICAGO, Apill S.-The threatened
milk famine of Chicago and several
central States broke up today with tho
signing of peace terms by two of the
big dealers an agreement to pay tha
farmers their prlte, $l,S3 for every 100
pounds of milk.
Tho not den Company, tho only big
dealer not to inmo n on the peaco pact,
hah annotmred unofficially u Is willing
to pay tho furmer'H price.
With tho exception of ono company
all ngree the price to tho consumer shall
May at 8 rents a quart. Tho lone ex
ception threaten to boost tho tirlco to
9 cents.
Federal Invertlgatlon of tho Farmers'
Asootlallon and an alleged dealers' com
bine to determine whether either him
violated the Sherman anti-trust law by
nttumptlnh" to fix prices, will be started
today or Monday, according to an an
nouncement today at United States Dis
trict Attorney dyne's office.
AS
SAYS
BERLIN
You Have Heard of the Cave-Man, You Can
Read Tomorrow About '
A MODERN CAVE-WOMAN
Kipling- said "the female of the species is more deadly than the male."
Margaret Sipe, down in Virginia, proves it. The strange story of how she made
poisoned candy and the way in which she used it.
A Story That Might Have Been Written
In the 5tone Age
In Tomorrow's Sunday Times
SATURDAY EVENING!
ORDER TO
GOME TO ABRUPT END
Former Washingtonians
Believed Drowned
Above MRS. FLORENCE GORE
SUPPLEE.
Below DR. E. D. SUPPLEE.
E
TWO LOST IN RIVER
Hope )m Dr. E. D. Supplee and his
younsr wife, who formerly lived here,
and who have been mlsstns; since Sun
day, when a canoo In which they had
been paddllnu was fovnd adrift on the
James rlrer may still bo alive, haa
been abandoned by the famlllea of tha
.couple here. A telcsram was reoelved
this mornlnK from the youm; man'a
father. Joseph K. Bupplee, who went to
Richmond catcrday to direct the
learchlm; party. In which he stated
cvory eifort is beln made to recivor
the bodies.
Mrs. Suppleo was Miss Florence Gore,
and her fam.ly lives at 111 Third atreet
northeast. She was twenty-two yeara
old, and waa married Inst December.
Dr. Suppleo waa a groluote of George
town University, ana went to Hopowcll
laat October, whern ho was connected
with the du Pont Hospital. He has a
brother living In Itlchmona.
The canoe from which they are be
llccd to bnvo been drowned waa pur
chased In lUrhinom last Saturday nnd
the youm; couple sat out Sunday mom
lnK..t0J,,u,u,l lro, nichmond to Hope
well. Tho dlxcovory of the canoo Nnply
several hours later and of a hat bear
ing the Initials "K. D. S." Is the only
traco of the couple that has been touni'.
ViaiaKB
liaiak." it iaiaH
vV ' 'iLiaH
kaaiBHk. kmiBH
IBiBiBiBHafT BkiBiBV
ABANDON
HOP
FOR
- , APRIL 8, 1916.
CAR TIE-UP FORCES
10 WALK
TO CITY IN SLUSH
Farm Wagons and. Motor-Drawn
Vehicles Bring Others to
Work Here.
MEN STAND BY THE UNION
Resident of the upper eountlea of Vir
ginia., where traffic Is paralysed by the
carmen' strike, came to Washlnston
today afoot, through the slush, or ovor
' the roads In mtor or horso drawn ve-
mcir",
A leivnril of Vffs offered by the Wash-lnRton-Vlrr.n!a
Railroad Company for
the arrest of, or Information loading to
the ldntlty of. persona who greased
tho companj'a tracks at Nauck. Va.,
last night, causing a wreck In which
two men were Injured, his brought no
response thus fat.
TtafTIc on' the Washington-Virginia
lines to tho South and as far nest aa
Fairfax Court Home. tUll Is moving.
The Old Dominion lines, however, are
paralyzed. Not a car has moved on the
Great Falls division, and only mall
trains aro operating to Ulucmont and
return.
Hundreds of Virginia residents came
Into Washington today on the market
wagons, leaving their homes before thu
bicak of day. On Saturdays there la a
heavy stream of market traffic to tha
iJty, and this s traffic, was converted
largely Ha paesenccr service today. .
iiioso who came in on the market
wagons, expect to reach their homes the
same way tonight.
Members of tne strikers committee on
the Washington-Virginia lines stated to
duy that the company had offered to
take back and treat with the locked-out
pen individually with grunt their de
mands. At a meeting In the Pythian
Temple at Uallstuil, tiic men determined
(Continued on Second Page.)
Soper Guilty of
Latimer's Death
Jury Recommends Mercy in Motor
Car Smashup Near Drum-
mond, Md.
Iior-KVIU.K. April S.-Urllty, with a
recommendation for mercy by the court, I
was the vcidlct brought b a Jury In!
tho cltcult court for Montgomery coun
ty today, In tho trial of William O.
Soper for manslaughter. j
The jury was out nearly sixteen hourr.
Tho case waB :lven to the Jurymen at1
j:m o ciock last nu:nt Dy juage t'eter,
with the fclmpto clinigo that their ver
dict must Iki either guilty or not guilty.
Soper waa Indicted for running down
and killing Harry A. Lnttmer with a
motor truck at Driimmond station on
tho Rorkvllle pike, the night before lust
ThanUsglvlnif.
He will be sentenced by Judi;c Peter
Wednesday morning.
The trial lasted two days, being con
cluded by the arguments by attorneys
which took place laat night.
Norway to Release
111 Interned Sailors
1) Kit LIN, April 8,-Sallora or belliger
ent countries Interned In Norway, but
unnt for service on account of 111
health, will bo permitted to return to
ther homes unaer on agreement with
the Norwegian government.
The Ucrman, French, British, and
Russian governments signed the agree
ment. Church Is Ablaze.
UCFFAIX), N. Y.. April S. St. Paul's
Church, adjoining St. John's Protectory,
at Luckawanna, was burned early to
dav. Fire nnnaratus was summoned
jftom Uuffalo. There are about l.W)
boys at the protectory. At 9:40 the Are
waa reported under control. Tho damage
will not bo heavy. '
HUNDREDS
'GET VILLA'
ORIGINAL ORDERS TO
U.S. COMMANDER ARE
GIVEN OUT BY SCOTT
i
American Troops Simply Told To Break Up
Outlaw Bands and Withdraw As Soon
As D2 Facto Forces Have Situation In
Hand.
What Wilson Said
"An adequate force will be sent
at once in pursuit of Villa with the
single object of capturing him and
putting a stop to his forays.
"This can and will be done in
entirely friendly aid of the consti
tuted authorities in Mexico and
with scrupulous respect for the
sovereignty of that republic."
President Wilson's statement when
troops were ordered into Mexico.
Preparations are believed to be under way by the Ad
tVlinistratjon to withdraw the American tropns from
M AVTrrtfi-TA.i---j
i'l LAlUUi "
Xlr il- mr s4a-1i -! T
. TllJlL. II WtlD UCLIdltU ill
if i .. . .. J.I
mai "mere is no immediate?
forces," Maj. Gen. HugrfL.
ing a conference which Secretary Baker had yesterday
afternoon with the President, gave out the text of the orig
inal orders to Funston.
These orders, far from conforming with the first state
ment made by President Wilson as to the purposes of the
expedition, explicitly provide that the troops shall be with
drawn as soon as the Carranza forces are able to handle
the situation, and that Pershing's work shall be regarded
as finished "as soon as Villa's band or bands are known to
be broken up." ,
At the time the troop firs tcrossed into Mexico, and
immediately after the rajd by Villa on Columbus, the Pres
ident, in a formal statement to the public, declared an ade
quate force would be sent "with the single purpose of pur
suing and capturing Villa."
' ORDERS KEPT SECRET BEFORE.
Heretofore the orders sent to Funston have been kept
secret, although Secretary Baker, all the time that the
White House was indicating that the orders stood "to ei
Villa," was careful to stand by his own original statement
ihat the forces were being sent in "to capture or disperse"
the bandits.
The text of the orders to Funston as made public by
General Scott follows, the portion deleted being, accord
ing to General Scott, of no consequence:
Washington, March 10, 1916.
Commanding General, Southern Department,
Fort Sam Houston, Texas.
You will promptly organize an adequate force of troops,
under the command of Brig. Gen. John J. Pershing, and will
direct him to proceed promptly across the border in pursuit of
, the Mexican band which attacked the town of Columbus, N. M.,
and tho troops thero on the morning pf the 0th instant. These
troops will be withdrawn to American territory as soon as the
de facto government of Mexico is able tn relieve ttcm of thls
work. In any event, the work of these roop3 will be regarded
as finished as soon as Villa's band or bands arc known to be
broken up.
In carrying out these instructions, you arc authorized to
employ whatever guides or interpreters are necessary, and you
arr rjvcn general authority to employ Buch trnnrportntion, In-
eluding motor transportation, with necessary civilian personnel,
as may be required.
You are instructed to make all practicable use of the aero
planes at Snn Antonio for observation. Telegraph for whatever
re-enforcements or matcrinl you need. Notify this oflice as to
force selected, and expedite movement.
' Publication t f the orders to Funston create da stir
throughout the Capital. Officials and members of Con
fess whose ears have been ringing with the promise that
Villa was to be captured "dead or alive" as a means of
avenging his sensational raid on an American town and
punishing him for the murder of the eight Americans kilted
in the raid, were thunderstruck.
PRICE ONE CENT.
vs. Official Order
"These troops will be withdrawn
to American territory as soon as
the de facto government of Mexico
is able to relieve them of this
wnrlf
"In any event, the work of these
.nn ...III U. .....Jl !!-! 1 V
as soon as-Villa's band or bands
are known to be broken up."-,
Extract from orders sent General
Funston as officially announced to
day.
V
fiKJennrrmpnr fnrtav
n ..ithrlrTina-friA
Scott, chief of staff, follow
-fll'fc JL. . t. A.
filKi ,
,mui-
