7.
IRECOIR
o-y
ESTABLISHED SEP'T 17, 1870.
PIOCHE, NEVADA, SATUROAY,'"APRIL' , 1916..
VOLUME XLVI: NUMBER 80.
-t-
APRIL SHOWERS
i
h
FIIOCME
Demonstration Train
Will Be Interesting
DOC
Returns
t
I
i
r
V
1
I
The demonstration train operated by (
the agricultural colleges of Utah and
Nevada over the lihea of the Salt Lake
i
route will spend the entire day of
Thursday April 13th, at Panaca. j
Never before has so complete an ex-
l.tit been carried on a train of this . !;eld in connection ' with the exhibits!
description; and. from educational and ! fe bv ""' the really Imports features
development standpoint Its . visit to th tour- .Nothing has been left un
.tnn..r. .Hi-., th. neonle nf -thla "sec- -'one to secure the highest class of ex-
tlon an opportunity -saV-. must not be
,i .b '
- On board the train itself will be a
series of ehxlbits forming an educa
tion in themselves. There is the ex
hibitor the Consolidated Wagon and Ma;
chlnery company allied with the Holt
Manufacturing company of California
.and the John Deere company of s UN
luols. ', :
. Allied to tliese plowing and tractor
demonstrations wilt be the expert ad-
vvue of Dr. W. K. Taylro.. who is thtj
soil expert for the John Deere com
pany will be on hand . both . In the
field ' ' demonstrations of his firm's
i.n'iLhhieiV but will also take part
in 'the- several meetings Which form
the real educational features of the
train's tour.
This entire ehxihit will
include two '
.tars one-of which will.be filLed with
tlie - f Bt inventions In labor saving
'. ' machinery. These devices , will all be
.demonstrated and epxalined by' epxerts
f-i ucpon.ipanylng the train.
' .-! Que of the Important exhibits of the
'train will be' 'the car devoted to the
demonstration" of specialties manufactur
'' ted, . by- F&irbaTiks Morse and' Co." These
will '. fncfu'de ' pumping plants, electric
i. 9 i (.,' , .11V.II.VIW fjv. , f ,
f - generating" ariif operating plant:
I,, tjfle fplunls and many other nf
vi -jj ... ; pViti'tt'cal ' devices for the devt
!'1.-.v.i-a.ncl'iperatn 'of ' the" ranch a
jVi WUU"the rapid" advance In wa
generating' arid operating plants, gaso-
new and
evelopment
and farm.
ater dis
coveries;' :t he sulije-t'of pumps and (telr
'.Op'opattng power,. .. -whether gasoline or
t h'Ui-Vcity. becomes most . Important and
thli vhxifiti shown - in actual - operation
really points the - way, tq the rapid and
'.-onomleal, met hock; of; development, that
Will add' many "thousands, of acres to
the .productive area of 'Utah and Nevada.
ti cat. will be devoted to the ehxib.V
-'It' of the Utah-Idaho sugar company. Here
est methods for the successful cultlva
tloh'of the sugar beet that has of late
become, so Important a faVr in inter
mountain 'presperity. There will - also
fce a demonstration of : the household
uses to which the finished product from
the beet . field may- be put and experts
will tell the story of sugar's value to
the- housewife both on board the train,
and In the meetings devoted to homo
economics. -,
Still another feature of 'the train will
bo t!) ehbxiit of, the General Klectrlc
compuny which will posess special in-
,? terest both for the men and women vial
4 '"'is. Tills corporation which has brougl
forward so many Inventions for the
if molerl.at!on of the . house and ranch,
will show the very, latent products
K ru-nglng from a comphy. plant for the
k. piwluctlon of light and power , down to
Biie diminutive.1 curling Iron so prized
'B . I
! by ladles of up-to-date ideas. On the
list will'- also . be 'washing machines,
;f wringers, flat Irons,; healers, stand
i lamps, suction sweepers, hand lanterns,
.j, electric ranges, ovens, toasters, . broil
. ers and chafing, dishes with many other
Inventions for the practical Use of
what. Ms '..destined ' to become- the mosj
.servlcable . of earth's elements. No
such complete exhibit has ever been
available o . the people of southern
Utah and Nevada' and with the rapid
advance! n .e use of electricity with
in and without' the house this showing
of the General K eitrlo company becomes
espo' wily important alike to the ranch
r .iiid h-mse wlf. " . illiLli
' HOME IX'ON'OMJCS CAR
Yet with this ' demonstration train of
1916 y e housewife has an added ad-j
ant age for the colleges have prepared
still another car devoted exclusively to
home economics. This car Is under the
personal direction of Miss Gertrude
. Yc Cheyne and assistants and will be
''3n exhausi'jfte exhibit of every'thiug'
modern in home development. Tliere
will be special tne'iings for the ladles
at which Ml8 McCheyne and her assis-
' tants will give practical demonstrations
'in connection with 'interesting lectures.
For the-t- meetings special electric fix-
: .-.t-Mres -will be Installed wherveer elec-
'i.trlcuy is available.
J.j JTliree - cars . of the traln 'will. appeal
Jrtlcularly to the men. These, aro the
' (kill.ge cars containing practical woiklng
nliodels illustrating the latest methods
' for . the hanlling of' IrrlgAlon wa
.and.- mi del s of every class of farm and
'. ranch - structure. There will 'also be a
' car filled with the choicest live stock
from which the rancher .may. v learn to
- judge the points- of animals In every
type.
To Milit ate the wool grower the gov
einnitnt Is 4 sending a full-car of wrol
exhibits with an experienced demonstra-
t rr trk tnuko nla I n V ita 1m iasr aint 1 flf
r T
mct'iods of wool production.
'I hese are only a fw of the trains
special features but the meetings to be
Pwts to take
In addition t
part in these meetings
to Dr.' Taylor of the John
Deere company there will be Dr. R. O.,
Pl.-rrson, president, elect of the Utah
Agricultural College, Prof. Charles S.'
Knight, dean of Nevada's Agricultural.'
College, Irof. J. O. Serugham, dean of
Nevada's College of Engiueerlng, Prof.
John T. Cane III, Utah's famous ex
pert on animal husbandry. Prof. L. M.
W'lnaor, government Irrigation expert
Prof, Ben Ft KIdredge, the most practi
cal dairyman in .the entire west, Dr.
P. S. Harris, Utah's loading expert In
Agronomy, Prof. Byron Adler, an ex
pret on poultry anrt poultry raising, Mr.
-W. Paxman, who was selected by the
government as the best versed and most
Ptactical expert on dry farming
and
Miss Gertrude McCheyne who, with her
assistants, will , lecture upon and dem
onstrate home economics, the most lm
portant subject covered by the demon
stration rain.
With this gathering of talent, the
educational , possibllitley cf this train
are unlimited and the agricultural col
leges, allied with the Salt Lake Route
hope that their combined efforts will
prove of adv fc'ige to every resident
of Utah and Nevada.
:
Will Soon Be Running
I't Is epeexfled that the Con. (Nevada
Utah mill will be in operation during
the coming week. ' V ' '
LITTLE INTEREST. TAKEN .
IN PIOCHE SCHOOL ELECTION
' Only" seven vof es were cast at . the
school election held in Ploche last .Satur
day, five of which were .cast by women.
The first of the "new voters" to de
posit a ballot In the box- provided for
'.hat purpose was Mrs. -C. - A. Thomp
son, who, with Mrs May Franklin and
justice W. B. Harris, served as Inspec
tors on election day.
j There being no opposition to Dr. W.
JiV. Sto.'l.ham, for long term; and B.
a. Smith,' ! or short ttrm trustees, they
were ac-ordingly elected unanimously.
In I'anncii, according to .reports re-
delved from there, the 'election proved to
fee an Interebting one. ThereLhe women
turned out very well and over 80 votes
were,c:iat iu all. Mrs1, Klizubeth But
ler was elected long term trustee, Mrs.
Kauhaet Dan vera .and' C. IV Mathews
slibj t -term ;t4'umees. . ,.
COMMISSIONERS APPROPRIATE.
i V, i MONEY FOR THE ROADS
. At) a meeting of the board of county
highway eornrnissioners , jast -.Wednesday
ah appropriation of $504; was , made for
the purpose of repairing the public road
from the depot: .to the Ploche school
house , and from the head of ' Main
street to the Priijoe hclne. ,
' A delegation of citizens of Ploche and
officlals'of the Prince. Consolidated Mlnr
Ing company appeared before; the .board
ahd after pointing!; out the fact tha,t the
road mentioned .'was badly In need of
repair .called attenelon ithat the Prince
Cunsolldiitol company turned- into the;
county a targe par'J of ffTe money col
lected from poll taxes and that nuder
.....
tnese conaitions some or tnis money
should rightfully be placed upon pullc
highways, of this . yicInUy.. .AjjfordlngU-
the amount ;'fl appropriated, wand the
matter is up to District Attorney Orr,
one of the members of the commission;
to see that the money is expended to
the best possible advantage. ',
i ;
QUARTERLY REPORT OF ,
SECRETARY OF. STATE
George Rrodigan) secretary of state
has issued his quarterly report, end
Ing March 31, 1916. The , receipt;
from various sources are as follows:
Fees ., $6,185.00
Automobile Licenses .-. 10,132.01
Statutes .. .. .. , 110.00
Reports : .. .. .. 219.00.
Total
$16. 646.tif
COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
APPOINT NO GAME WARDEN
The . county commissioners' met In
regular session last Wednesday with
all members present.
An order was made discontinuing the
allowance heretofore made monthly to
V.' K. Long -and family -of Panaea.
The sum of $2,000 was " "ordered
.1
y'. M eonort- J AT HOME- ,N ncx.to
.Copyright.)
transferred from the jury fund to salary;
fund and the treasurer was so. instruct-
ed. J
In the matter of the appointment, - of day of the. Lincoln county schools was
a game warden for the present year,- j a huge success. The residents of Tanaca
applications were , received from Dave j served a delicious free luncheon and
Wadswoyh of Panaca; William Hnmmoml. they are deserving of the highest com
cf Ursine and William Davis of CalN mendatlon for the hospitality displayed,
ente; but the board, decided not to J About ten auto loads of people went
make an appointment at this time. , '.. ; down from Plocjne to attend the exer-
A communication was received . from ; clses.
fMrjs. C. A. Horn of. Delamar advtsy W J,-. the idea of making this an
Ing that she could no longer take cnniial event, Principal J. II. Smith of
care of Dick Phillies, indigent, for $15 j the Lincoln County High School, took
per month, but would do so for $20
per month. County Commissioner Wedge ! events with the principals of the varl
was instructed to find some one who i schools of the county . sometime ago and
would -.take eare of the patient r,he certainly is entitled to due credit
the first named sum and in event no !
ne could be found to. have Phlljlps sent
o the county, hospital.
Panaca Ins :
Silver Cup
ranaca. won by a small margin the
field day contests pulled off In the
high school town yesterday and will
retain the silver cup which the Lincoln
County High school presented as the j
trophy. The Ploche schools took second
place, while. Callente the only other
ontestat, came out third.
The day's prograrrt opened with a
wr'.ttn spelling contest, . In which the
Xulgies, Mrs. Burke, Miss Connell, of
Panacaj, and L. H. Beason of Ploche, se
liected fifty words from lists of five
hundred arranged by the three schools
entered.. In this contest Panaca enter-
ad 15 pupils, five of whom spelled all
the words correctly, while the tynal
number misspelled was 26, giving an
average of I 11-15 words per pupil.
; The Ploche schools entered a class of
15, eight of whom spe'led all the words
while the total number misspelled was
giving an average of 2 5-13 per
pupil. '
The Callente school . entered a class
of in, three of whom spelled all the
WmuVs coirectly, v. hilo the. total num
ber misspelled was 55, giving an aver
age of 4 3-15 per pupil.
This wave Panaca the lead wlth Ploche
second.
In the composition contest, two pupils
WcTvj chosen from each school. The sub
ject selected by tlie Judges was: "A
Description, uf Our School Building and
Its SuiTaiindinijS.'' Ploche - triumphed
In this con(j(Bt;' yhl!e Panaca came out
second. ' ;y . J .- .4 .;
The first ball game was won by Pan
aca In a, score of .10 to 31 over Callente.
In the Tjextw, nucha, won over. Panaca. A
the end of .the fourth Innltig, the score
stood .23, ,.ti 1. 'In-favor 'of Ploche, wheti
Panaca . withdrew.', " Then followed a
game between, 'Ploche and 'Callente, the
former, ""winning '.in the ninth0 inning In
a 'score oil 13 to 4. " ' ''
lin.an .exciting potato .race In which
gli U .entered,,' ;Pana'ca won, Ploche aec
(jrid. . - ' ' '! ' . i.
Callente.-bested all opponents Jin the
pole chinning 'contest; Panaca' came
In second? whtlejthe'"; Ploche boya took
third place.
(T-yardaisI Pai
. In the 100-yard 'daw, Panaca came ou
flit, Ploche second and .Callente third;
while -in .the relay race, 'which came Im
mediately following; the two bail tramet
partteipated in -by tlie t'loche boys, Pan
aca. carried.! off ; first hftnors, Callente
second and Piocjje third. This gave
Pa,naf a, the le4d v in ''the number of
Wil' and wnc le"aln the cup for at;
lulC.' ; - an.itv,nB . . 1. . . . 1
lhave similar" cwniVsts next year and
In 1918, the cu (.wllL become the prop-
erty of the, .solool . gaining ' the greater
number ofijVs.1 '
The teachers and pupils of the
schools entered into the contest with
enthusiam and altogether the first field
up the matter of having field day
for having started this progressive
movement which is bound to result
In much benefit to the public schools. 1
MATERIAL ORDERED FOR
'.'.':'.'- PRINCE CON. PLANT
r UeZl.bM . ren- 'brdered ,' and "pi'aSy
t tcally all the equipment for the new
plant to treat the dumps owned by the
Prince Consolidated at Bui ion villi,
Nevada. According to general Manager
Murray' C. Godbe the plant sholud be
finished by July. Relative ' to the
work on the plant Mr. Godbe says:
''During' the year many tests have
been made to determine the best pro
cess for the treatment of this material
which consists . of 120,15$ measured tons
In the two pita, flhe average assay be
ing .110 ounces gold, 10.6 ounces silver
and 6.7 per cent lead. The best results
having been obtained in a preliminary
way by means of oil flotation,' a com
plete test plant was Installed at the
mine by C. F. Sherwood,s metallurgical
engineer, and' a series of tests made,
employing . that process. The results
weie highly satisfactory. An average
sample was then taken to Salt Lake
and' check tested by the general en
gineering "company of that place.
C. F. Sherwood , who has had charge
of the experimental work, has made a
completereoprt, part of which says:
"Ptghring the value of the product
'oUtalned from flotation at its market
value ont he basis of $6 per 100 pounds
of lead and CO ceii'ts per ounce ,of ' sil
ver," with 'smelter deductions, we have
a recoverable value per , ton.- , of . tail
ings of $S.01S. Deducting, the total
cost ot handling, and obtaining ' these
values of $4,253, which costs Include
,all overhead charges, amortization on
plant, etc., leaves a total' net profit
per ton from flotation of tailings
tinted of fs.79. This on 120,000 tons
amounts to $451,200, net revenue de
rived from tailings. It is the- writer's
opinion thaij t'he recoveries . will be
greater. In actual practice than those
we have! figured. v '
"Work has been done along; the
lines of cyanidlng the talil'ngs after
flotation to increase the1 gold ' and sil
ver recovery, and I am confident ' that
it wi ui realize at least' $186,400 net
revcn;;,''i'', ' '.,, V,'' .
Conclusion From . the,. ' above and
the work that I have done on " your
tailings I strongly' recommend that
workat once be atarted upon the erec
tion of t'he mill. You have in actual
sight, sure of recovery, $451,200 from
flotation, ' net, with the 'additional re
covery by cyanidlng' of $1S6400. Using
extremely . conservative , , figures . in
making this estimate, "' It Is the wri'tj
er's opinion that, the nek.recovery will
be In
excess of $700,000." Deseret
News.
Wni Open Law Office
F. E. Wadsworth of Panaca was Inj
Ploche Wednesday looking for a loca-
,tHon fo law office which he willl'
open about May 1st. '
Mr. Wadsworth will be a candidate
for dlsjrlctj attorney at the next elec-!
!)Vn and he has, . many, friends who '
are boosting him or. t place,
From Copper Diggings
Harvesting the Wool Crop
e
Sheep shearing la In full swing Iq
tlie rtorthern part of th state, ami
at Jackson Creek, near Winnmucca,
where the grazing Is good, abou
20.00a head will be clipped.
ARBOR DAY
Governor Boyle has designated Fri
day, April 14, as Arbor Day.
III
Mil
APPEAL TO AMERICAN RED CROSS
FOR ASSISTANCE AUTHORIZED
BY THE GOVERNMENT.
Supplies Cannot bo Shipped to Turkey
From America Because of Block
ade, But May be Sent from
Roumanla.
Washington. The Amertcan Red
Cross received word Saturday that
Turkey for the first time is ready to
accept aid tor 500,000 of her citizens,
who face starvation. Hundreds, it
was said, are dying for. lack of food.
Ten thounand dollars was cabled to
fill Immediate needs.
A message from Red Cross agents
in Turkey said the American organi
zation would be permitted to co-operate
with the Red Crescent. The dis
patch added: .
"Great suffering throughout coun-
I try. .' .particularly at Constanttnopla
fan'ir'su'frurtong shores -of Mar
mora, at Adrlanople, Bruss and Smyr
na. These people, 500,000, not com
prising Armenian refugees, need help
tor bread. Hundred dying of starva
tion. No relief in sight. Typhus Is
spreading with high mortality."
Supplies cannot be shipped to Tur
key from America because of the al
lies' blockade and foodstuffs probably
will be purchased by the Red Cross
and sent from Roumanla.
DODD'S MEN IN PURSUIT.
American Trocpera Making Every
Effort to Wipe Out Survivors of
Villa's Band.
Co'.umbus, N. M. Riding merciless
ly, 400 American troopers under Col.
George A. Dodd are making desperate
efforts to capture or wipe out the but
vivors of Francisco Villa's largest
command, which they defeated at San
Geronimo ranch, according to meager
reports seeping across the border.
Although the pursuit by the Amer
icans is a new experience for Villa,
one he lias never met in all his years
of guerrilla warfare, army men here
are not inclined to minimize the task
before Colonel Dodd. The Guerrero
district in which Villa, with a price on
his head, was able for eight years to
escape capture by Porttrio Diaz's ru-
rales, abounding as it does in caves,
canyons and almost impassable moun
tain trails, all screened from the eyes
of air. scouts by heavy growths of
mountain pines, is admittedly one ot
the most isolated regions in Mexico
and the one in which the bandit has
the largest number of friends.
ENCLAND RAIDED BY ZEPPELINS
Scores Killed and Many Wounded In
Series of Attacks.
London. With the exception of the
big air raid of January 31, when the
casualties -were sixty-seven persons
killed and 117 injured, the Zeppelin
raids of Friday and Saturday nights
earned greater loss ot life than any
previous aerial attack this year. '
; ."Ehe total casualties for the two
nights, according to an official report
were.- 59' persons killed and 166
wounded.,' ;
GO BACK TO CHIHUAHUA.
Americans Who Fled When Soldiers
Crossed Border See No Danger Now.
El Paso. Eight Americans, who
came to El Paso from Chihuahua City
when the United States soldiers
crossed the border, returned to the
Mexican state capital Wednesday,
They said they felt certain that au
dansrer nf niiilpa. a t Inn hnl nassd '
Air Raid on Turks.
London. A successful aerial raid
n the Turkish advance base at Blr-
el-Haasanah, 100 miles east of thel
Suez canal, is reported In a Renter
dispatch from Suez. The raid was
mad bv British airmen on March 24,
ILfi 10
STARVATION
Dr. L. Marco returned early In the
week, from a trip to his copper proper
ty down on the, Colorado river in ArN
zona bringing with him some samples of
copper ore tha look "good enoughjf
to eat and the doctor relates thai (here
4s lots of more Just like It epxose4
In the mine.
During heit rceentN trip the doctor
spent several weeks In making a crit
Ileal examination of the property hay
ing -wltih him, Mr. C. E. Moulton, the
well known mining engineer. Satisfy
ing himself as to the physical condi
tions. Attention was then directed to
wards devising ways and means for
transporting the ore merket. At
the beglnlng tt seemed to bfe one of the
greatest difficulties to surmount; but
investigations has disclosed that about
eisith miles below the mine, the canyon
narrows down until the distance across
the river is only about 200 feet. By
means of a rope trawway the ore can'
be conveyed across the Colorado and
'from there 1t would be smooth sailing
by auto truck to iPeach Springs, a sta
tion on pie Santa, Fe, about 23 mile:
away. At Peach Springs the ore would
be loaded onto cars and shipped to the
.Needles smelter.
Meanwhile, the problem of getting the
ote down to the point on the river
where It is proposed to ,tam It across.
has been solved, temporarily at least.
by pressing the faithful burro Into ser
vice and t'he doctor has arranged fo .
the purchnse of fifty of these animals.
While 'it is possible to build a good road
from the property to the river's edge.
the undertaking would take a . little
time and money and besides 'engineers
re In the field now making: the pre
liminary surveys preparatory to the
erection of a large dam. across- the river
which would result In ' very materially
Improving the transportation sltUsftton .
at the Morco mines. With the dam
once in. It would then be possible to -
utflize doats to. advantage ' in faking
the ore down stream. The mine is .
located approximately 1000 feet above
Vhe river and the. ore could be dropped
down to the boats landing by gravity :
tram.
The doctor Is planning to organize
corporation t underatke the devel
opment and operation of the property
and will have associated with, him soma
formidable eastern capital. The lncor- .
poration papers are now hjstng d-awn
by Attorney Leo A. McNamee of Las'
Vegas and will be ready for filing lif
the near futtire.
it, will probably be a month or mor
before the preliminary arrangements
are concluded so that the doctor can,
get away; so meanwhile he will be In,
floc-he and Callente giving his atten
tion to his dental prolUce.
PIOCHE SCHOOLS HAVE A
HOLIDAY IN PANACA"
The Ploche schools were closed yes-
I 'i-clay on account of the Field Day,
exercises at Panaca.
Several autos were pressed Into ser
vice to convey the teachers and pupHs
to the high, school town.
SSS m- -
Al. A., Will and Leonard Carman ex-
ipect so leave today on a trip to Salt
Lake to be present at the wedding of
their slyter Annie, which takes plactf
nc?i,x week.
LINCOLN COUNTY BONDS
OWNED BY STATE
Late Thursday afternoon the aVata
board of Investments finally concluded
Its transaction for the sale of Its
Massachusetts bonds, says the Appeal.
The board has sold 1428,000 par value
,of Massachusetts ' bonds, $115,000 of
which bears 3 per cent per annum,
and $313,000 that bears interest aO
3 1-2 per cent per annum. '
The bonds were sold to E. H. Rol
lins & Co., and the Nevada Industrial
commission for $395,000 and accrued
Interest. With this money the board
-f purchasing 428,000 par value
Lincoln coun,ty bonds bearing 4 per
cent per annum at 90, the total pur
chase price being $385,200.
By this sale of Massachusetts bonds
and purchase of Lincoln county bonds
the state board of Investment Increas
ed ' the capital amount of the ' HttH4
permanent school fund $10,200. In ad-
dltkm 10 thls thay ,ncreasd
" capacity of the fund 12.900. par.
I annum.
The Lincoln county bonds are re
deemable serially commencing in 11
'and reinvestment of this capital, to- .
1 getwer with ;Wie increased interest, if
Tetnvested at 6 percent over the sam
''period as . MachuSetts boors ' wll
I net the state in Increased earnings
- about" $126,0Q8. '
if
?
l ,
v4.
si
'A
M t
.to,
' t J
1
5
8
i
a
