SAFETY FIRST--STAMP THE ROOSTER
The True Democrat.
VOLUME XXV IT. PrANCIlVILL, WETr PELOGIANA PARIA, LOUMtANA, SATURDAY. APRIL 1,1S NO. 10
PLATFORM OF COL. RUFFIN 0. PLEASANT AND THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY.
The Democratic party eaters nlato
this campaign with no apooleoie for
the past or densaggleal promise for
the futurs,aad stands squarely on those
principles advocated by Ite nominee
dorlag the primary campaign. The
leaders and the rank and 1e are the
men who have weathered the storms
of political, commercal, Industrial and
agricultural adversity; the men who
have been stedfast and loyal, and by
their brain and brewn have built. on'
the wreck of the Civil War and recon
struetion, a prosperous and growlng
commonwealth; the mea who have, by
devotie to duty, freed the tate of
negro domination, which, since 1se,
has never been threatened. Under ad
verse etreumetanee, handicalps and
serious setbacks, that would have die
heartened men made of weaker mould.
the LDemocracy of Louisiana has brought
edter out of chaos, and, through the
wise and enlightened eerts of succe.
srve Democrato administrations. re
estaMshbed our redit at borme and
alroad, rehailt and developed oud edu.
eastioal and eleemosynary nlasttutions,
provided and maintainead a splendid
public school system, opened our door(
'1o capital and aided and encouraged
our agricultural. industrial, Eommer
1ial and mlneral development.
The Demoretle party is opposed to
any further centrasllation of power nla
the hands of the Governor, and Is.
tIherefore. opposed to the short ballot
I cal selfgovernmeat and mos-lnter
feree in local raft re has always bees
a cardinal principle of Democracy If
'he pople of a city desire civil servic
it their municipality it should be a
matter for them to decide sad bhould
not be thnrst upon them by outsiders.
The fee system aulowid be abolished:
and all officals placed upon a salary
hmals. with due regard to edletancy of
public service, and a remasoable. fair
atd just compensation for service
performed.
We favor and demand such a re
vision of our judlciary system as will
tffectually facilitate the more proept
dispatch of court proceedigs sad
liminate untoward and unnecessary
delays incident to court procedure and
the final determination of litigatitn.
As soon as praeticable the lIcensei
on all trade., oeupateas or profes
sione. that have a derivative right to
exist, should be abotlihed.
The remocratie party is opposed to p
any Increase In the present rat. of T
State taxation. ad., to meed the erd1. a
nary expense of the georrameat, v
plfdgnI Itself to a proper eqalisattle l
of usaenment and adjustmeat of the
burden of taxation. With a Democratie p
elslelature and a Democratie exzeca ,
tive this will be aeompliehted after t
careful and temperate eonslderatloes.
If. to settle the problems oofratnetlg
us today, or tlhoe that may arilue to b
the near future, It le found seesee t ifl
to ecil a constitutional convetlos, It p
should be called, with ample time sl
bWfore the election of delegates for fll
discuslon by the people e the iaes
ure to be cosldered. It hloud be la
onventl a wh ntch each parish shalt pl
have Its proportleOate shaId of reprol g
sentatlon, and the work of sieeh o.a di
veation should be sebaitted to the T
people for ratlaetlet. 0
Capital should be encouraged and a
protected n Its rtights, and labor treat1 ti
Pd fairly and justly. with all of Its ti
rights protected againet abe.s and lr
enroeacbments. t
The artlicial citisa, hknew as the m
corporation. shaould be made to obey
the law and so to live that It will deal a
justly and honorably with the puble.
The anti-trust laws and other crtimnal
-ad regulatory memu res should be
vigorously applied to combiuatlons of
capital and of persons that olead.
On the other hand. demagogteal
proseeutlon of corporations bsould
not be tolerated. They most be pro.
teeted ii their rtights as well as Ind
vidal eitlseas.
The building and manltaining of
better public highways, so nmeessfly I
Inaugurated and conatDied dbring
previuIe Demooratl adtIlIetratliJ,:
should be prosecuted with seal and
lithout abatemeat.
The only true nermaneat wealth is I
produCtlon from the sell. Lolisiasa is
primarily an agricultural State. Her
greatet seurce of wealth Is her aun
daat fertile and lasaulstible lands. I
The depopulation of the land is a re.
ogalsed evil. To the end that there I
may be a revival of agriutural Ia
tivity and prosperity and a repopulat
ties of the land with an Industrious.
conservative and educated eltisenahip,
the Demoratice party pledges s it gos I
on ef ort:
To provide every aid and seneerapge
meat to the uphuttl ag of agriculture
and huabandry in their manifold de
pnrtments. emphasisiIg particularly
live stock Improvement. better market
facilities. agricultural high schools.
experlmental work and demonstration
and extension work among they farmers.
And we recogniase that the rtalast
aid to the aciompllshmant of an aurl'
cultural revivl and a repopulatloa of
the lands would be the establishma nt
of businaes facilitles whereby the
farmers may obtatan Inaneal aid ont
,loa terms, at low nlterest--4I other
words. a rural credit system
All of our educational and elenmosy.
nary lastitutions should be provided
for as liberally as the State's iesome
will permit.
The Democratic party Is unalterably
opposed to lanereasing the State debt
for any purpose whatsoever.
In order that all legitimate oblig
tione of the State may be met all usa
necessary otees and epstses shbould
be etlmhrated sad the strietest economy
observed. Under no ireumstances
should approptlatlons eseed the rave.
aoss of the State, and to that end a
system of State budget should be
adopted.
The control of the flood waters of the I
Missilsippi River sad the lev naeose
sary to protect the lowlands of ltoi
tana from the waters of a continest Is
and should be the nations charge. as
eaunelated In the national I)eoeratl
platform of 1912 But, until the Nal
tional Goverumeat ausumes the oblilge
lion, we advooate the maiteaslace of
the levee system by the State to the
highest degre of etleleey.
We realltrm our alieituse to the
iemocratti party, sad we espeolally
sed Ireettags to Presidt Woodrow
Wilson, who has so ably sad patrioti
cally preserved to our oosutry the
blesealna of pese amidst a world at
war.
na this day of natloal stress we call
upon the white Democrats of Lohisiasa
to turn a dea ear to those who would
have them fotrwear the filth of their
fathers, and we urpge upo them the
secesslty of upholding the banner of
Democracy Ia ward and parish, state
and satioe.
We appeal to the white eeetortst to
stand by the nomineea of the party.
We appeal to to their honor, their judg.
meat sad thet~ patrtetism. with sa
abiding faith that ths appeal will not
be in vala.
WANIS WNZES
UIIOILAws
Tbe State Department of Iuesltion
has Iissued the following li connection
with the revision of the seool laws:
The following changes have been
decided upon In connection with the
proposed revislon of school laws:
1. Minebership on pariah school
boards will not be changed.
3. Parlsh superintendents will be
required to furalsh Indemnity bonds.
als now the case.
1. A disabrged teacher will not be
required to eecur a statement of the
rssew rhis or her b dis carge.
4. The law governing the certifea
tion of teachers will not apply to
teachers I private schoolb.
The followlng will be submalttld as
separate bills:
I. Aulorislnga the school boards to
carry their Itneranse on the mutual
or seoprative bass.
1. Requiring school boards to fur
eb a minimu m number of sets of
I. Previdlag for the medical Insp'c
tise of children
4. ProvidIag for a pension of IO
per year for teahere who have taught
for u many as thirty years It public
sbhoos., twenty-lve of them ton Ltite
lone publle schools, pension to be paid
by the State
0 S. Providing for compulsory school
attendance through the elementary
schools for all children for whom
adequate school fncllities have been
T, H. HARRIS.
State Bupertntedent.
"UNOIR WHI0n KING, tSUONIANt"
(Reston Leader.)
Do the supporters of John M. Parker
who all themusves "Lndependent De.
art" knew of a Republiaeen in the,
State who Is not supporting him? If
they ask the Republicans why they
support him they will answer frankly
that it is because they ooladeer him a
Republican. Taking these facts into
eonasderatloa, are you not aMltatlag
with the Republes uand oppeosing the
only Democratic candidate in the state?
"LET TSIl PIOPLI RULE."
The lendametall prinelple of De
moeracy is "let the peoplo rule.'
(Colonel Pleasant has been nominated
hor Oovernor by the Demoerat' of this
State by a majority of over 54.000.
HIe can a paper be Democratle that
Iganes this fact and support a man for
governor who is a tool of Theodore
Roosevelt. an enemy of the Democratic
party? The Vindieator Is not that kind
of a Dremoerlt-Hammond Vindicator.
Safety P*-S&tampr the Rooster.
I want the governorship to come to me clean. I do not want the support of the
man who votes in the Democratic primary. I want my supporters to be loyal and
stay out of the Democratic primary.--JOHN M. PARKER.
AND 1 PWO
(I New Orleans States.)
Away back tb the days of his pres
deny Mr. Parker recelved from Mr.
Roosevelt a letter coneerning the a
tion's duty to the Missislppi river
It Aled Mr. Parker with emotion--lt
was one of the nrst letters he had ever
received from Mr Roosevelt--and we
ran recall with whbat dramatic elRet
he read it from the stage to a convem
tlion the n le asteson here and pro
nounoed it, from the steadpetat of the
people of the lower valley, of tran
eontinental value.
But Mr Roosevelt at the end of seven
yeers went out of ofce without havJia
done an earthly thing to lighten Louis
Iana's river burdn. Nor did the Re
publlcan administration whiekb seee"o
ed him.
It has remained (or a Demoeratrt
President to perform what Mr. Roose
volt promls4. When Preeldent Wlson
the other day pledged his adminastmr
tion to the expenditure of $45,000,000,
w:wader continunlg contracts, to revst
the banks of the Mislsislppi and pro;
tet the laud. behind It with standard
f levees, be rendered the greatet at of
service to the people of Islosiana, so
far as river protectton is coneerned, o
any man who ever occupied the White
Home.
Mr. Parker is on record tI this cam
naign as denounelng both the Demo
craie party and its President as
menaces to the welfare of the people
of louisiana.
He exhausts his voasbulary l sitag
P e the praises of Mr. Roosevelt as at
friend of Loulsiana and the South.
The people of Louisiana who rega
rPderal control of the care of the MIs
sisetppi as vital as any service the
SNational Government ear reader them
will think twlce before they stamp the
emblem of the aull Moose and thereby
vote to rebuke Woodrow Wilson and
the National Democratic party.
A NEW COURSE TOQ S OPPIERI
IN THI SUMMEM MCHOOL.
Durinl the coming aes of the
summer school of the University the
Department of Ucoemaes will ofer a
course tn Rural emomales. Thoe eerse
will Intlude a study of eseaeome prbs
pleo as they relate to the agriultural'
industry. rpeelal attentioe will
given to suhe topics as the development
of modern agriculture, land owerestp
and tenaney, the respective advan
tages of larngstale and small-sale
farmlng, extensive and lntensive selt
vation. colperateon and markettang a.
ricultural credits, agrarian movmestsl.
and the social problems of ral soe
Jmunetie. The coura wm be gIvem b`
) r. W. O. Sreggs. '
=m_ - mmulumue m m _ -nm Im lm nmmu
MAN l TO TA IMS TS (F LIOWIA
UBY A OF STATE W]T CMITTE
The genral state eeetioe will take
place on Tesday. April iS, 101m .
lAoulisan experts every Demoerat
1o do his duty.
The only hope the Dbll Meoou Reple
iDean tiLebt has of beina elected Is for
h-- Democraats of this state, and e
peclally of the country paritshes, to
stay at home and not go to th poele
and vote.
We do not believe you will aid them
by stayings at hoe sad set deago your
duty as a good eletlso. oThe Dwtat
Snomineea for governor, Col., Rula 0
Pleasant, made a straightforward, ma.
ly and open itght and was sotaated
by an overwhelming majority by the
people themselves at the ballet bos.
The legislature ad all the state esoean
a Ill be flemoerats, hose how foolish
to elect a Progressive party man as
governor In order that he might tear
up and destroy the Democratie party
In this state. Col. Pleasant is a native
son of lcoistana, educated t her'
Swools. devoted to her best intonesi
and well qualiled to serve the Ps0O
flthfully as he has pledged himself
to do, He stands anqualidedly oa the
platform heretofore isseed, and there
is no sound reas why any Demoorat
should not loyally support the tiebet.
The electton of the Democratit tielet
In louisiana will prve as endors
meat of the splendId admistratloe
of President Wilseo and will give
added strength to tohe sational cea
paign nest fal. The eyes of the nation
are tarmed to this state. Mr. Parker's
Ieection will be beralded as a Republi
can victory and as a harbinger of the
breaking up of the boath by that party
which has never proves Its friendship
either In the state or atiton for this
portice of our fair land.
We appeal to you as loyal seas of
Louisiana, who are farsighted enough
to see the situation to its true light,
that you lay aside your work for a
short while and go to the polls on
eleetion day and "Stamp the Rooster,"
ta order that we may retur ee or
whbeming Demoeratt majority and
detest this mixed sembluation that has
reared its bead at this time. At Ruston
and at Burton the Progressive oandi.
date for governor declared he did not
want the vote of any man who par,
ti~cpsted to the Demoeratie primary
for state oAeers; declared that he
wanted the govermesrhip to eom. to
htm ele if it t eome at all, and as
ununeed that It would be potteally
dishonest for any man to partietlpte 
tS. Democrattl primary to go to the
poats in April and vote for the Progrei
si ecandidate for governor. He ia now
asktng Democrats to commit political
perjury by supportlng his candidacy.
Such ctione would be morally wrong,
and every boneet man to Listeleaas
bound to recognise it.
Democrats do your duty.
I,. E. THOMAS, CLairnnm
Democratiec tate Central Committee.
SETTING AND GIVING.
You cannot get real friendship sales
you give real friedeslip. "The only
way to have a frend is to be see."
Don't think to cheat by giving artlcSial,
surface, Ilf-seeking friendship, for In
the end that is all you will get in
return.
Sometimes we do et seem to to take
out as much as we put In, sad again we
seem to be takng.1out more than we
put in, and congratulate oerselveT that
we have cheated the balasee.
But it Is not so. Things will eves
themselve uip eventually toIn e way
or another We may receive more love
than we give, yet be the ultimata oeers
because we lose In the especity for
loving. The eompeaoatioes of life are
more delastely adjusted than we with
our crtude preeptios esn ever know.
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ---i T- ·
ATTENTION DEMOCRATS!
"LOUISIANA EXPICTS IVERY DEMOCRAT TO 00 OIS DUTY.0
ELECTION DAY, TUESDAY, APRIL t.
DO NOT PAIL TO O0 TO THE POLLS AND STAMP ThI ROOT00 R.
The eye of the matosa ae swteblmt righLt ow. Wilt we eMeroe
Presldst Wilse's Iedll adelnaetriota . eor wtill we aore Roos
veolt and RLqltestusm? Cel. 0. Psat mde as opmo amd Iaely
0h1t sad wan overwheltaolty semlsatli and It tthe duty of eveor
oyald [Derst to go to the pels sad vtet telet. To ote tor
LtlgIht Denmerea,
STAMP TNI ROOSTIR.
AYlt5E N 0WltPH
(iMarkartlle News.)
The Parkerltes proclaim from every
housetop-"- The Progressive party is a
white man's party."
The Progressve party is the creature
of ¶ eodore Roosevelt; he its leader
and mater. If he ars so - and be
will---It wtil go beck Into the RepubtI
can party next June
When the Alabama Progresslve
made their state orgenlsation white by
aecuding their "blaek brothere." and
Roosevelt Ihead of it, this ih what be
said, and it west:
"Neither the admneistratlnn nor the
Rtepublican party of the North will
stand fbr the exclusion of any section
of our people by reaeon of their raee or
color, when In other respects such
paersons have compleld with the law
and are eligble under the law to full
and free partcipation in polittical action
and are of a high standard of persenal
character "
Mr, Parker is a registered Progre*
s*ve: he is the head of the Progressive
party to this ltate: he Is Roosevelt's
aster ego Ina tie Stat.. As Roaoevelt
beOieves, so belleves Parker.
As the renator commands, the erea
Lure obeys
Has Mr Parker ever said he would
not follow Roosevelt after the national
convtentoe In June whither he went?
Will he say so now and stick to It? If
not, he Is unworthy the vote of say
honest man.
Safety. Pirst---ltamp the Rooster.
SURN OR bURY THE INFPCTED
CARCASS,
The moat fruitful source In oontinu
Ing and spreadingta charbon In a locality
is the eherbon caraess, though say
material, or agsey., that may have
-ome in contact with the athrax virus,
especlaily blood. may harber the ger s
ans be a earrier of the disease. The
careasss of all alatdls that dl. ed r
delty or otherwise, durtia the summor
months should be carefully and ca
pletely burned, or baried with qusek
lime. As the spores of eharbon lIe
from seasoe to season. on or near, the
surface of tIe ground. pastures that
are knows to be Infaeted with the
disease should, where pmaetleable, be
plowed and the surfae turned under
It it is possible the lad should be
drained, as it is a part of the treatment
of the disease to destroy, or axtermi
sate, the ebarbo spores that remaist
an the ground to give future trouble
during the summer seas - W. H.
Da~rympl. e partment of Veterinary
Soleia, tAletleas State University.
Isfety Pirst-bStamp the Rooster.
FARFF S MEET
NX WEDN Y
A neeting of the ofle s and diree
tore of the West PeIroleaa Pair Asuo
elation he been called for WedmNeday,
April II, at ie a m. at the eourt bease.
Mr LeUIt N. Breggerhebo, Seeretary
of the LouAisana StIate Patr. will be
jpresent aUd advise with the ofIeesi
and directors as to the best steps to
be taken to useure a scoseso fair.
It Is expected that Mr. BrMeggerkel
will make a pub$ie address as the
alght of the 11th at the eourt houms
Sprovided thee s ao polidtit l spe
of any kind to be boheld that afterosae
or nltght. Mr. Brueggerbof, as leere
lary of the State !air. has had a wide
and varied acquainataoe with the sob
Jl, of fairs. He knows every angle
of the problem. He is an enthusiastie
advocate of perish fairs. He can give
us just the information we need at this
tim. Every one interested In the fair
should come to hear Mr. Brurggrhobo
It will be nseessary to begin the ad.
droes early so Mr. Brueggerbof ean
ratch the b o'elock train. Tbhe audience
should be asseabled by 7:30 p. m.
There I to be a meettnaIng of repre
sentatives of the poltoe Juries ad fair
assoeiations of the state In baton
Rouge on April It. It would be well
it every fair officer and director could
attend this meeting.
FinancIal etatement:
Previously acknowledged...... 4. 0
Isno P. Irvine ............... 6.00
Morris Burg s ............ . . .M00
S0. Davl ................... 6.00
. 8. Muse .......... ....... 00
Mars Netmateder ........... 1.00
Total................ 47.00
HIALTH OPPICEIIR CONPERINCS.
The annual conferenae of Leulsiana
health offielrs will be beld April 11
it is hoped that every parish and
municlpality will be represented. D)oe*
your community believe in protection
and conservatloe of healthb It should
srend the offier who han charge of this
important part of the publie service to
the meeting and pay his expenses
The Southebnr ikeological ('ongreme
will hold its sesnios in the iety of
New Orleans. April 121. The subject
of every department will be conserva
tion of health More than too men and
women foremost In the belth activities
of the eountry will be present Revery
personn nterested in bygiene sd sent
tartol wilt be beneited by attendance
at the congress.
The confeurenc of health ofcer is
planned for the 11th, that the maemers
may have an opportunity to attend
also the meeting of the soelolglkcal
Congress.
