"TATE
u.:.
APF' 1 II 11)16
LIBRARY'
INDEPENDENT
NON-PARTISAN
Official Organ of the Building Trades Council of Cincinnati and Vicinity
Vol. III. No. 51
CINCINNATI, OHIO, APRIL 8, 1916
One Dollar a Year
Duck the National Security League
It is the Handiwork of Capitalists and Munition
Manufacturers.
Wm. Cooper Procter Says: "We Must Fight For Our Property". Henry T. Hunt
Says: "The Increasing Tendency to Regard Government Merely As An Agency
to Promote Class Interests, Seems Worthy of the Gravest Concern". Samuel
Gompers Says: "The Workingman Should Repudiate Preparedness Unless Given
Equal Leadership and Equal Opportunity".
All workmen, particularly those who
are members of organized labor, should
stay as far away from the preparedness
program of the National Security Lea
gue as possible.
Do not be misled by the red-fire and
brass bands, which arc paid for by the
enemies of organized labor.
The American Defense Society, The
National Security League, and the Ju
nior Navy League are about one and the
same thing. Their excuse for collecting
money, which is handled by a promotor
on a commission basis, is as follows :
They circularize and call on a mer
chant or a workingman in an effort to
get him to join their league, anywhere
from .$100 down to $1; they make a
strong appeal to his patriotism on the
ground that the money is necessary to
support a lobby at Washington, D. C,
in opposition to the efforts being made
by Andrew Carnegie and Henry Ford,
whom it is alleged are spending a great
deal of money in the interest of peace,
and the two mouthpieces of this organi
zation is Wm. Jennings llryan and Win,
Howard Taft, but it is not known
whfitlinr-tliw.tare-pu ihe payfoll-orr r.ntr
1 his very suggestion is a reflection
upon the integrity of every member of
the U. S. House of Representatives and
the Senate. The insinuation being that,
as money is being spent on the side of
peace, there must also lie money on the
side of preparedness. When, as a matter
of fact, there is more real patriotism
among our representatives at Washing
ton than there are among these mounte
banks who are hollering for a large
militia, simply to tight labor and prevent
them from bettering their conditions and
wages.
The American Defense Society and
tile Junior Navy League started out in
New York and raised considerable
money until the New York World ex
posed and exploded the scheme. When
most of the big men of the country who
were on its board of directors repudiated
the organization. The National Security
League side-stepped New York and in
order to work the rest of the country for
money, it needed a big send-off to start
the ball a-rolliug, and Cincinnati, the
German-American city, was picked out
for this scheme, to show to the rest of
the United States that if we have war
with Germany, that the Germans of Cin
cinnati are all right.
Here are the opinions of three men:
Col. Wm. Cooper Procter, capitalist,
and son of a rich father, says: "The
time will soon come when we will have
to light for our property." What does
.Mr. Procter call "our property?" If the
street-car men refuse to work and
strikebreakers are brought in here in or
der to take their mode of living away
from them, and they resent it, should
the militia be called out to protect our
property?
If the machinists want shorter hours
and refuse to work, should they lie beat
en back into submission in order to pro
tect our property?
Henry T. Hunt, former mayor of Cin
cinnati, a self-made man, and one whose
courage is above question, has this to
say of the National Security scheme:
"It is undoubtedly true that dangers
menace this republic and that prepara
tion to meet them is urgent. I liese dan
gers are not only external, but internal.
The fierce class antagonism which seems
about to convulse our country, the ever
widening gulf between the industrial
workers and the business element, the
increasing tendency to regard the Gov
ernment merely as an agency to extend
and promote class interests, seem worthy
of the gravest concern.
"All urge their rights and desires and
ignore their duties. The propertied class
fear the growing strength and increas
ing bitterness of the industrial classes.
They also fear the possible destruction
of their property ami ruin of their busi
ness, which would result from a German
or Japanese invasion. They are striving
now to direct the patriotism of the
American people, which is deep and fer
vent in spite of appearances, in such
manner as to further increase their grip
on government and insure further pro
tection of their rights. They refuse to
urge the adequate and democratic me
thod to secure real preparedness for
even our external dangers; universal
manhood military services by the Swiss
or Australian system. No nation is safe
in these days unless the nation itself, the
whole people, is prepared for defense."
The third man's opinion is that of
Samuel Gompers, the grand old man of
the labor movement and for years presi
dent of the American Federation of
Labor.
In regard to such schemes as the Na
tional Security League, which arc organ
ized by capitalists, in order to place their
kind in command and force the working
classes to serve under them, he says :
"Recognition of and co-operation with
the organized labor movement in all
fields of activity, industrial, commercial,
political, social, moral.
"Establishment and extension of the
citizen soldiery, democratically organ
ized, officered, administered and con
trolled. U-JiRroliibitii)jof.-tliR us-; oLtbc--militia.
for strike duty.
"Education of the wage earners upon
an equality of all other citizens in manu
al training, physical and mental devel
opment in organizing, officering, admin
istrating and leading in operations of a
military character for the defense of the
country.
"Industrial education and vocational
training as a part of the educational sys
tem of the State, with financial aid of
the Federal Government.
Would Kdurulc Youth.
hducation ot tlie voting, physical
and
mental, including the art and the duty
of defense, the ability to bear arms, the
' . T . .
inculcation of the ideals ot democracy,
civic rights, duties and obligations.
"Inculcate in all our people a social
conscience for a better concept of indus
trial justice."
In introducing his list of conditions,
Mr. Gompers said:
"The labor movement takes the posi
tion that plans and policies for national
defense and preparedness must be in ac
cord with an educated conscience which
can discern values and is able and alert
to distinguish the vital from the less im
portant, anil willing to insist upon ideals
and standards of justice, equality, ami
freedom."
Organized labor has refused to en
dorse or subscribe to any scheme like
tlie National Security League, unless
equal opportunity for leadership, equal
opportunity for education and pro
hibition of the use of the militia in
strikes, and these apply to the working
classes in general.
STATEMENT OF TRAINMEN
Is Discussed Ity Kailroad OllU-ials of
Cincinnati.
The statement issued by the four
Brotherhoods of Railroad Freight Men,
whose demands for an eight-hour day
are being considered by the railroads
throughout the country, that the grant
inir of an eit-'ht-hour dav will mean
much to the shippers in the matter of
the roads running trains faster and
quick deliveries, is denied by Cincinnati
railroad officials. The latter point out
that the railroads always try to run
their trains as fast as possible and make
deliveries quickly.
"Terminal congestion," said a Big
Four man, "is troublesome and expens
ive, and the rule is to avoid it as much
as possible. It is not probable that the
men, under an eight-hour day. could
work any faster. The eight-hour de
mand is really a demand for higher
wages.
"The present day is counted 10 hours,
or 100 miles. If 12(1 miles is made in
10 hours the employe is paid for the
extra 20 miles. If he only runs 80 miles
a day, he is paid for 10 hours, or 100
1 miles."
KICKS REGISTERED BY DOCTORS
(Employers null Labor Are Against
Scheme for Insurance.
Proposed Plan To Pay For Sickness
Looked Upon Witli Alarm, As
Agitation Grows.
Columbus, O. Preliminary discis
sion of the proposed measure for State
health insurance, which originated with
the American Association for Labor
Legislation, has developed possibility
of opposition from three sources. They
are the employers of labor, the labor
men themselves and the physicians. Un
less the objections can be met in a sat
sifactory way, the chances for substan
tial progress at once will be materially
reduced.
On the other hand, the private inter-
est in the conation is that of the insur-
ance organizations .whn-art committed
.'" : '". ""'l " ".",- '""' ' "j, i"
write the new kind of insurance, but
will have no State feature in it such as
is proposed by the propagandists.
Taking the possible objecting inter
ests in their order, that of the employ
ers is, perhaps, the most forcible. More
and more they are being deprived of the
control of their institutions by law and
by organization of the workers. The
statutes prescribe very definite things
they must do in their plants, and minute
rules are provided in the agreements
with labor unions in many cases.
In the nasi few years the cost ol in
dustrial accidents have been placed upon
; ' whether ll.cy are at tault or not
1 1. ....... ..I. i ....1.... .... ...,........
imwMii uic hi i 1111:11 t (." unjx. rii:tiiuMi
law. Being compelled t pav for all
sorts nf injuries, thev are expected to
protest against payment of employes
when those employes are unable, be -
cause of sickness, to work.
Tin- :iiiiie:iram-i nf onnosition .-iinimtr
the workmen is due to the fear that
while designed as a benefit the sj stein
of health insurance may actually become
detrimental to their interests. With the
establishment of workmen's compensa
tion, physical examination of employes
has become more and more rigid.
In many instances it has been regard
ed by employers as a matter of self
protection miller the compensation sys
tem. The employes fear that only those
who approach pnvsicai periecuoii wi
be able to get work because of the ha-
bilitv of others to become ill, and thus
be a direct burden upon the employers.
To those who recall the strenuous oil
jections made by many physicians to the
workmen's compensation system, the
shyness of the medical profession is lit- '
tie surprise. One of the features of the
new proposed law is the .standardization
! of medical fees, which is said to content- '
'plate a material reduction over the pres
ent schedules for professional services.
WITHOUT CONTROVERSY
Plumbers and Kinployers Are To
Sign Xew Agreement, "I'is Said.
That the Master Plumbers and hour, 12.1 journeymen carpenters, eni
Pluinbers and Gaslittcrs' Local Union 'ployed by the 11. Koppers Company,
No. .10 will enter into a new agreement Pittsburg, at the new by-product coke
without a controversy at the expiration 1 works of the Youngstowu Sheet and
of the piesent three-vear contract, Tube Company, went on a strike today.
May 1, was intimated "last night by ' A number of conferences have been
John Vogelpohl, chairman of a coin- held without result
miltce representing the Master Plumb- A number of conferences were held
ers' Association. This committee and I today between striking employes ot the
one from the union, headed by Thomas I General Fireproohng Company, and the
nderson. business agent, met at
the Savoy Hotel last night.
A meeting tif the Cincinnati Master
Plumbers' Association was held at the
Palace Hotel Thursday evening, and
Vogelpohl reported the result of the
meeting with union officials.
Negotiations have been oil between
the two organizations for seeral
weeks
The Allies
The Cincinnati Home Brewery, Alias The Ohio Union
Brewery, Are Again Using Union Labor, and All's
Quiet On the Potomac. Regular Meeting of the
Building Trades Council. An Active Campaign Or
ganized to Demand a Card From Every Workman
On a Job. All Trades Reported Business Good.
It was with great pleasure that we beg
to announce that peace reigns again in
the neighborhood of the Ohio Union
Brewery. The union Steamfittcrs are on
the job and receiving the union scale
for eight hours' work, as the Building
Trades controvery with this brewery
was settled last Saturday.
The regular meeting of tile Building
Trades Council was called to order with
President Jos. A. Cullen in the chair,
and owing to the absence of Secretary
Fred Hock, who is in Kansas City at
tending to an executive meeting of his
International, Ed O'Connor was appoint
ed secretary.
The minutes of the previous meeting
were read and adopted.
Brother Cullen, who is acting as busi
ness agent during the absence of Brother
Hock, made an excellent report upon the
WILLIAM COOPKIt PltOCTKIt.
The chief local promotor of militar
ism, alias "preparedness" is William
Cooper Procter, perhaps the richest
man in Cincinnati, and rich, not because
of superior talent or hard work, but
because he is the son of his father.
This man is also the most forward de-
Jjcnuerot pnvnegeu imj:resianuii2aJ..otmilU fnunilttfi-1itr-',)-
1&;-'."- r,": " " -"Vi: .....
prior to the opening of the European
war, and in his propaganda to strength-
en the National ouard, he repeatedly
used this expression when making
a
speech in his exclusive clubs : "The
time will soon come when we will have
to fight for our property." While the
National Guard was in camp at Camp
Perry, in the summer of 1014. lie n-ed
the same expression.
Men like Mr. Procter, Colonel Proc
ter, want to arm, not against a foreign
foe, but against the- rising industrial
democracy of this nation. Although it is
'not ennite.y Know, except 10 nisu ers
m it i IwIwm'iwI Mint In rrn mm nl
. -- --. ..v k... .-
those who advised the calling of the
'militia to Cincinnati during the strike
, in the spring of IHKI. of the street car
I boys,
So here and now. as in the past, the
'chief promoters of militarism, alia:
'nrenarcdness." are the rich benefici
aries of special privilege. It is an old
and true saying: "There is nothing
more timid than a million dollars, ex
cept two million dollars," and the mil
lions in ones and twos and tens and
scores and fifties and hundreds that are
piling together in the hands of men like
Colonel Procter, are more and more
attracted to the idea of large armies and
navies. Washington and Jefferson and
Lincoln warned acraiiist this, and the
, working people
People's Bulletin
should beware. 1 he
OXK STIUKK KXDS
Another lie
Carpenter;
ins at Youngstowu
Seek .More Pay.
Youngstowu, O., Apr. 0. The strike
of linemen employed by the Youngs
town and Sharon Railway Company
ended today when the men accepted a
wage increase of from S.'L.IO to :!.S.1 a
day. Thev at first demanded that the
foreman be selected from the ranks of
the union men, but withdrew this de
mand. Unsuccessful in their demands lor a
waire increase from lid to 4.1 cents an
ii.nniurpnuMit. and an early settlement
predicted. About 1.000 men are af
fected. PltlXTKItS It A IKK WAtiKS.
Massillon, O. Typographical Union
No. 20S has secured a three-year agree
ment and raised wages f mi so cents
to $1.50 a week-
Win Again
conditions of various buildings now in
course of erection. Among other things
he reported that scab engineers were
working on the East End high school,
but that the contractor had promised to
put a union man on the job Monday
morning.
All trades reported business good.
Under the head of "good and wel
fare," the matter was brought up in re
gard to one craft demanding a working
card from another. The result of which
was a request sent to all locals affiliated,
requesting that they pass a rule placing
a heavy fine on any of their members
who fail to demand the card on the job
or who worked with scabs on a job and
not reporting- the same to the head
quarters of the business agent.
There being no further business be
fore the meeting, Council adjourned un
til next Thursday night.
IX.IUXCTIOX SOUGHT.
Against Striking Fanners I5y Chica
go Milk Concern Kwl is Seen.
Chicago. 111., Apr. 0. The fight be
tween the farmers around Chicago and
the distributors in the city over the
courts today. Borden's Condensed Milk
Company, one of the largest distnbu
tors, applied to Federal Judge K. M
Landis for an injunction restraining the
Milk Producers' Association, as the
farmers' organization is known, from in
terfering with the delivery of milk at
various plants 01 the company. Argu
ments on the bill will be heard Saturday
The company declares it has been
compelled to close four of its bottling
plants and is sustaining a loss of $3,000
a day as a result of the farmers' strike
Three carloads of milk were received
from Lyons Falls, N. Y., today by one
of the large retailers. Another ship
ment was received from a point 200
miles from Chicago.
Dairymen at Palatine. 111., who have
been shipping .",0.000 pounds of milk
daily to the Chicago market, today joined
the ranks of the Milk Producers' Asso
ciation. An effort to arbitrate the strike will
be made tomorrow, it was stated to
night by John Dill Robertson, Commis
sioner of Health.
Word was sent to the headquarters of
the Milk Producers' Association to the
effect that the dealers were ready "t
talk thing over."
MOItK WOltKMKX QUIT
When Kailroad Men Iteluse To Kee
ognize Union Many Arrested.
New York, Apr. 0. The strike at the
Grand Central Terminal and Mott
Haven ards of car cleaners, baggage
men, track inspectors and other labor
ers employed bv the New York Central
Railroad,' extended today to North
White Plains, where 1.10 men quit work
Twentv-iour arrests were made in the
Mott Haven vards, where a crowd loi
tered about the tracks. The prisoners
were charged with disorderly conduct
and trespassing.
One hundred and fifty deputies were
directed bv the sheriff tonight to patrol
the Mott Haven yards, where strike
breakers employed by the railroad, in
cluding a mtmher ot women, were pro
vided with meals and lodging in passen
ger cars.
COMIMtOMISK OFFKItKI).
New York, Apr. (. It was announced
at the offices of the New York, New
Haven and Hartford Railroad here to
day that the company had offered an
increase of wages of IK- cents an hour
to its 4, .100 shop craftsmen. The ad
vance, officials say, would mean an in
crease of $200,000 in the yearly pay roll
The men have had a demand for an
increase of 4 cents an hour before the
officials of the road for several weeks,
and have taken today's proposal un
der consideration, it was announced
