THE COLFAX CHRONICLE
Absorbed the GRANT PARISH DEMOCRAT May 1, 109
- Dcnocratic journal, dcvotcd to Local and Gtneral Ncws, Literature, Science. agriculture, 6tc. -
VOL. XL COLFAX, GRANT PARISH, LA., SATURDAY, APRIL 8, 1916 NUMBER 2
Official Proceedings of the Grant Par
ish Police Jury.
Colfax, La., April 3, 1916.
The police jury of Grant par
ish met in regular session.
All the members were present.
The minutes of the proceed
ings of March 6, 1916 were read
and approved.
The proposed public road lead
ing from the upper Colfax and 4
Alexandria road to the lower
Colfax-Alexandria road along
the township line between town
ships five and six was discussed E
and on motion it was ordered i
that the committee heretofore
appointed to review and locate I
the same be relieved from fur
ther duty and the following nam- t
ed six freeholders be and they I
are hereby appointed as a com- I
mittee to review and locate the I
said road, namely: E. M. Bar- c
tin, Jr., J. Williamson, F. M.
Morris, S. L. Honeycutt, D. N. s
Honeycutt and W. E. Teddlie. I
A petition was presented ask- it
ing for the establishment of a t
public road leading from Packton o
to John T. Hyde's place. Action V
on petition was deferred. V
A report was made by the com- e
mittee having in charge the lo- b
cation and review of the proposed tl
public soad from the Colfax and
Georgetown road by H. I. Bree- d
land's place to Selma. On mo- v
tion the report was accepted, the to
committee discharged, and the $:
road was ordered established. ci
On motion it was ordered that tl
the F ittee heretofore ap- a;
pointed to rev d locate the ri
proposed public road the
Colfax and Georgetown road at de
Mrs. Tracy's place to or near jt
Zion church, be relieved from ti
further duty and the following pl
named six freeholders be and
they are hereby appointed to re
view and locate said road, name- tc
ly: Grover Hemphill, Baker Bra
zeale, G. L Coburn, J. D. Mc
Conothy, George Cupp and J. C. or
Blackshear. ju
On motion it was ordered that p(
the committee heretofore ap
pointed to review and locate the S(
proposed public road from Mrs. or
Tracy's place to the old Colfax I
and Georgetown road by way of
C. Amberg's place, be relieved au
from further duty and the fol- Di
lowing named six freeholders be wi
and they are hereby appointed 1,
to review and locate said road,
namely: Phil Guynes, C. Amberg, au
Coley Norris, J. W. Pledger, L. B
L Bankston and M. C. Starks. ab
On motion made by Mr. Wat
son it was ordered that all road re
overseers shall keep all culverts st
protected by a covering of not er
less than eight inches of dirt. M,
A claim was presented in be
half of Mr. Fountain Roberts jo,
against the parish for $300, esti- 19
mated damages sustained by
claimant in consequence of a fall
from a wagon on the road lead
ing from Colfax to Montgomery.
On motion the claim was reject
ed.
A petition was presented ask
ing that Mrs. Ellen Brimer be Ap
placed on the pauper list. On poe
motion the petition was granted vor
and C. T. Allen, of Simms, was fO
appointed as agent.
Mr. Hardtner, president of the ten
police jury of LaSalle parish, ad- ef
dressed the police jury with a int
proposition that Grant and La
Salle parishes each expend the
sum of one thousand dollars in
cooperation with the State, which
will contribute two thousand dol
lars, for the purpose of building ,m
a bridge across Little river at ti
the old ferry. ma'
On motion the police jury ac- U
cepted the proposition and order
ed that one thousand dollars of ail
the parish funds be expended for t
that prpose and that the prmi- Oa
ar- Aswell's Old Settlers' Land Bill Passes
by Vote of 197 to 75.
Washington, April 3.--Just be
ir- fore the House to-day, by a vote
of 197 to 75, passed the Aswell'
t. bill, for the relief of settlers
d- in Louisiana within the grant to
ad the New Orleans, Baton Rouge
and Vicksburg Railroad Compa
d- ny, Representative Aswell, auth
id or of the measure, charged that
er a lobby was in the capitol work
ig ing for the defeat of the measure.
n- The lobby, he said, represent
ad ed the trusts of the country, and
d was headed by the heirs of Jay
re Gould. A dramatic incident was
te produced when he pointed to the
r- gallery and declared that one of
n- the lobbyists was there hiding
?y behind his hat. A man with his
n- hat partially covering his face
ie beat a hasty retreat to the corri
r- dor outside the house chamber.
I. Mr. Aswell made the closing
J. speech on the bill. He followed
Representative Fordney, of Mich
c- igan, who opposed the legisla
a tion, and Representative Lenroot,
n of Wisconsin, who favored it.
n When Aswell had concluded he
was surrounded and congratulat
i- ed. All of the Louisiana mem
>- bers were present and voted for
d the bill.
d Mr. Aswell's second victory to
h- day came when he obtained a fa
º- vorable report from the commit
e tee on claims on his bill carrying
e $225,000 for the payment of mail 1
carriers during the civil war. On
t the previous day he had made an
- argument in the house for Red
e river.
t dent and secretary of the police
r jury be authorized to sign a cer
1 tificate of indebtedness for same t
r payable March 1, 1917.
i Colfax, La., April 4, 1916. o
The police jury met pursuant t
- to adjournment. ii
All the members were present. t
Mr. R. H. Benton, farm dem- a
onstrator, came before the police 1
jury and read his quarterly re- P
tport. p
On motion Charity Wilson and
Sooky Curtis were ordered placed
on the pauper list with J. Q. S
Long, of Colfax, as agent.
On motion the president was
authorized to sign a note to the S
Dixie Culvert Co., for $2104.00
with interest, payable February A
1, 1917.
On motion the president was s:
authorized to sign a note to the r
Bank of Colfax for $5000.00, pay- ti
able out of the revenues of 1916. f
On motion the president, sec- ft
retary and treasurer were in- t
structed to issue warrants cov- ci
ering the bond issues maturing to
May 1, 1916. e<
On motion the police jury ad
journed until Monday, May 1, h
1916.
MIss H. E. CAMERON, at
Clerk.
R. W. RICHARDSON, fit
President.
Notice.
A mass meeting is called to be at the
court house in Colfax on Saturday, St
April 15. 1916, at 2 p. m., for the pur- L4
pose of discussing the damming or di
vorcing Cane river and its tributaries
from Red river, and its effect on Red '
river and lower Cane river. A general re
lecture will be given on the outlet sys- til
tem and the levee system, and theirn min
effect on rivers and waters. Everyone fe
interested is cordially invited to attend
I. McMLu.Ls. th
Safe Medicine for Children.
"Is it safe?" is the first question to th
be considered when buying cough medi
eine for children. Chamberlain's Cough
Remedy has long been a favorite with of
mothers of young children as it con- ea
tains no opium or other narcotic, and ha.
may be given to a child as coufidently Le
as to on adult. Itis pleasant to take bu
too, which ia of great importance when a
a medicine must be given to young of
children. This remedy is most etect
nal in relievkig estgh, esldI and greoup. I
Obtof~abj r r~we -~r
es Why Constipation Injures.
The bowels are the natural sewerage
e- system of the body. When they bi
te come obstructed by constipation a part
]] of the poisonous matter which they
should carry off is absorbed into the
rs system, making you feel dull and stu
to pid, and interfering with the digestion
,e and assimilation of food. This condi
a tion is quickly relieved by Chamber
lain's Tablets. Obtainable every
where. -Adv.
Notice.
. STATE OF LOUISIANA
Parish of Grant
t Pursuant to authority contained in
d ordinance No. 8 of the Board of School
Directors of Grant Parish, Louisiana,
Y of date March 1, 1916, I, J. H. Mc
S Neely, president of said body, hereby
give notice that an election will be held
ie in Montgomery, Louisiana, in the build
if ing usually used for holding regular elec
tions in Montgomery School District
g No. 21 of Grant Parish, Louisiana, on
is Tuesday, April 11, 1916, as set forth in
the following abstract of said ordi
e ance:
i- Section 1. Be it ordained by the
Board of School Directors of Grant
Parish, Louisiana, in special session
g convened, That an election shall be
d and is hereby called to be held in Mont
gomery School District No. 21, Grant
l- parish, Louisiana, on Tuesday, April
11, 1916, at which election the majority
" of the property taxpayers of the said
: school district, in number and amount,
eligible to vote and voting shall deter
mine the i,
e PROPOSITION
To incur debt and issue bonds of e
Montgomery School District No. 21, ,in '
Grant parish, Louisiana, to the amount p
r of Ten 'lhousand Dollars ($10,000.00) b
to run for a period of sixteen (16) h
years bearing interest at the rate of
- five per cent per annum, payable an- ti
nually, the funds thus derived to be
used for the N
PURPOSE of building and equipping t
a school building at Montgomery, Lou- r
isiana, in Montgomery School District
] No. 21 of said parish and State and for '
purchasing a school site if such should '
be necessary. ti
1 The said election shall be held in a "U
building usually used for holding reg
ular elections at Montgomery, Louisi- -
ana, and that W. O. Harrison," Dave '
Mathis and John I. McCain shall serve
as commissioners and J. M. Wardlow
shall serve as clerk of the said election. '"
Notice is hereby given that on Wed- i,
nesday, the day following the said elec- to
tion, April 12, 1916. at 12 o'clock m., di
the School Board will meet at the court k;
house at Colfax in their office, Parish Ci
of Grant and State of Louisiana, and "
there in public session open the ballot ,
box, examine and count the votes both a,
in number and amount, and examine o
and canvass the returns, and declare,
the result of the election and promul- to
gate the same.
Given on this the 1st day of March, a
1916, at Colfax, Louisiana, in said qr
parish of Grant. of
J. H. McNEELY, o
President Board of School Directors, Ira
Parish of Grant, Louisiana.
A true copy.
J. N. WARNER, i
Secretary of the Board of School Di
rectors, Parish of Grant, Louisiana. ti
tic
Sheriff Sale. IQ
State of Louisiana, Parish of Grant, w
13th Judicial District Court. of
No. 3190. 1
Albert Hardtner Co., Ltd. vs. Wiley
W alker et als. eB
By virtue of a writ of seizure and Lu
sale issued out of the Honorable 13th `
Judicial District Court and to me di- t
rected in the above numbered ana en- of
titled suit, directing and commanding a.t
me to seize and sell the property of de- ,.
fendant, I have seized and will offer nsa
for sale at the principal front door of the
the court house in Colfax, La., between t
the hours prescribed by law for judi
cial sales, on
SATURDAY, April 29, 1916, f
the following described property, seiz- sar
ed as the property of the defendant ii"
herein, to-wit:
160 acres of land, being the west dli
half of the northeast quarter and north- "
west quarter of southeast quarter, and b
northeast quarter of southwest quarter, ,1.
all in section 22, township 6 north, 'a
range 1 west, Louisiana meridian. SNI
Terms of sale-Cash, with the bene- at
fit of ar~,praisement. I
Colfax, La., March 22, 1916.
A. B. PERKINS, tto
Sheriff of Grant Parish, La.
Sheriff Sale. dru
State of Louisiana, Parish of Grant, pal
13th Judicial District Court. h
Leander Willett vs. Thomas L. Rader. on
No. 3218. tioc
By virtue of a Writ of Fieri Facias Ia
issued out of the Honorable Thirteenth
Judicial District Court, and to me di- sad
rect,:d in the above numbered and en
titled suit, directing and commanding oi
me to seize and sell the property of de- .:
fendant, I have seized and will offer for *e'
sale at the principal front door of the
court house in Colfax, La., between this
the hours prescribed by law for judicial o,
sales, on
SATURDAY, APRIL 22, 1916, v
the following described property, seiz
ed as the property of the defendant ab
herein, to-wit: re
South half of the southeast quarter
of section 31, township 7 north, range 1 fo
east, Louisiana Meridian, and the north rn
half of the southwest quarter of sec
tion 2. township 6 north, range 1 west,
Louisiana Meridian, together with all nc
buildings and improvements situated on T
said lands.
Terms of sale-Cash, with the benefit
of appraisement
Cdfax, La, March 17, 1918.
A. B. PBFRKINS,
Sheridlf eakPGis
Re An Optimist
, . A man who
ey Owns a
uFish Brad
Reflex
)- Slicker
S:$3.00
$ when the Weather
Man says "raln."
Id A. J. TOWER CO. I
ct s 1on
eN
. Trespassing is not allowed on my
premises under penalty of the law.
mll-6t* EMILY F. BILLIS.
i JUDICIAL SALE.
ttateof Louieiana. Psarih of RBpides, Thirteenth
It Lee Lumber Company. Ltd.. vs. lherman Cook
I and M. L. Alexander.
No. 10,183,
d By virtue of and to satistfy an order of seisure
and sale isaed from the Honorable 13th Judke
il District Court, and to me directed as sheriff
r- and ex-ofllro auctioneer of Rapide. parish, Lou
isiana. directing and commanding me to eelse
and sell, for cash, to the last and highest bidder.
without beneflt of appraisement, at public auc
f tion. after legal advertisem nt and aerordiag to
n law; the hereinafter describe.d property, I will
i offer for sale to the last and highest bidder, at
public auction, at the front door of the court
house In Alexaudria. Lonailama, between the
honre prescribed by law, on
Satarday, April 2f 1916,
-the following described property, so-wit;
e The following descrbed lands situated on the
north side of ied river and in the parishes of
Rapidee and Grant, in the State of Lonisiana,
to-wit: West half of SW qr, NE qr of 8W qrand
E bf of R hf of section 24 Li township 6 north,
range I east.
:t North half of.Ksetion 18; W hf of NW qr, BW
r qr. 8 ht of ME qr of section 17; NE qr, E bf of NW
qr. N hf of SW or, N hf of SE qr,and SE qr of ME
qr of section I; all of sectl wthl the excep
tion of hb ) of NE qr); W h W qr. and SE qr
of NW qr of section 21; SW qo section 2 NW
qrof N qr. N hf of NW qrSW (r of NWqr, sad
HE qr of St qr of section 2I; NM qr of NE qr of
- etion 1l; E bf of E hf of seetfon 82; 8 hf of NE
qr, NW qrofEgqr, NW qrof NW qr.bfof NW
qr. and SW qr of section 33; W hf of NW qr of
section 34; all in township 6 north, range 2 east
F Northeast quarter of Si qr ofse tiolo 23; thbe
northern portion of section 42. containlng 167
acres, and desrlbed as commencldng where east
- lie of said section 42 iutrseets Bayou Flagg*n,
- thence run south on east line of said section 42 a
distance of one-half stile, thence west 7% degrees
north 9-16 of a mile, thence north on west lime ft
section 4 C to Bayou fliaggon. thence along Bayou
I Flaggol to point of beginuning; all that portion
i o section 43, hounded north by the old Milhbs
and Daugre tract, east by mection 44. south by
section 4. in township 4 north, range I east, and
I went by section 42. and containlns a quantity of
471 acres, which does not include Howard tract
of 50 acres; all of section 4 (with the exception
of NW qr of NW qr, and NW qrof ME qr); all in
" township 6 north. range I east.
All of section 4 (with the exception of 86 qe of N
NE qr and Nit qr of .E qr): all f section 9(with
the exception of the E hi of NB qr); SE qr of BE
I qr dof section 8: all of fractional section 1i; lot I
of fractional section 20. contanlang a quantity of
120.96 acres; all of fractional section 23; SW qr
of M W qr. and hf of E tr of section 24; the
fractional 8 W qr of section 25; all of metton 40,
being the John Burney grant; all of fractional
seetion 27; all of fractional section 32; all of frac
tional section 38; all of section 35 (being the
Isaac Frazier grant). lying north of the north
line of sections 42. 43 and 44 produced: all of sec- 
tion 36 lying nortn of Bayou Flaggon; all of se
tlon 38 lying south of Bayou Flaggon; all of see
tion 41 (with the exception of ME qr of BE qr); all
in township 5 north, range 2 east. C
All of section lI with the exception of 8 hi of S a
W qr); lot 1. and 8 hf of 8 hf of t-tion 2; NW qr
of section 15; E hi of NE qr. and 8E qr of ection
16; all of fractional section 48, all in township 4 I
north, range I east.
Which lands aggregate a total quantity of
10.980.70 acres, and are further shown on plat aa
nexed to the act of sale and mortgage from Lee 01
Lumber Company. Ltd.. to Sherman Cook and ti
M. Leigh Alexander. of date March 7, 1912. and
colored green on said plat.
Excepting however certain timber and rights K
of way as reserved and excepted in said act of
sale from said Lee Lumber ('o., L.td., to said
Cook & Alexander of said date March 7. 1912, and
recorded In Conveyance Book 61, page 56, of the
Records of l apide parh, and also exceptlng
the following described properties released from
the effect of said mortgage and vendor's lie,
to-wit;
(a) Lots 1, 2, . 4. 6 and 6 of section 27: lots 1.
2. 3, and 4 of section 32; all of fractional section
:13; all that portion of section 40 lying southeast
of the dividing line between sections 53 and 31 in
said township and range produeed in a direct
line north through section 40 until it Intersec.t
with the dividing line between lot 3 of said are
tlion 27 and fractional section 16 produced In a
direct went line, which southeast portion of said
section 40 so released contains 325.06 acres; all
that portIon of section or grant i lylng north
of the north lile of sections 42, 43 and 44 prodoe
el. which portion so released eontalas 414.15
acres;: all in township 5 north, range east; and
as released by said Ie Lumber Co.. Ltd.. in the
act of sale from said Comk amd Alexander to Eli
l'. Williams dated January 14, 1915. uad recorded
In 'oiveyance Book e1. page 14 et aseq.
(b) Moithest ir. N hf. N hf of 1W qr of section
I; hf t .·rE qr. bfh of tW q yand Lot I of see
tion 2: NW qr of section 13; Si qrand E hibf of
NE qr of amrtlon 16; all of fractional amcEtina 4;
all in townehlp 4 north, ram;ge east. The north
ern portlon of sectio 42rontalamiglas ares and
deeritbed as commencing where the Meat line of
said section 42 Interctst Bayou FlagUgon. and
thence run south on east line of said sectiou 42
one-half amile, thence weat 7% degree Mnorth 9-16
of a mile, theure north on wset lire of ald see
thin 42 to Iiayou Flaggon, thene alham Baryou
Fiagln to point of beginnlng. Allthlt.portihii
of section 43 bounded north by the old Mltha
and )algre tracts. euast by section 44. sothb by
sectin 4. ad west by section 4t. oetalIntng
47I1 arems, which does not fInclede the Howua
tract of 49 saerem: NE qr. E hbo NW qr. 1W qr
of NW qr NN ht of LW qr. h bf of 81 qr of secrtln
43: all in towushlo 5 north, range east. All of
ietion 45 lyig south of Bayou lagLgona, N bfhi
and N hf of ME qr of metion 41. all in towslhip I
north., range 2 east. Which release mentioned in
this pargraphb ia that made by said Lel.amber
Co. In act of sale from said Cook and Alexsander
to the L.oubisiana Investment A Seeeritl Com
pany. dared March 6, 1914. and recorded in Cot
veyance Book 6i. page S1I.
(e) touthwest qr of E qr of sretlon 41. town
ship 6 north. range 2 east, as per release of Le
Iumber Companyv to George Htlavaty tas per act
recorded In ('onveywnce BHmk 63. pae 64.
(d) Southwest quarter of section41.towuhip 5
north, range east, as per act of rease from
Lee Lumber Company to Prederick Rnughn. r
corded In ('onveyance hook 3. pag. 43*.
(e) Northeuast qr of ME qr o seetloa 45. town
sblptnorh. range 1 east. as perrelasefrom
Ie Lunmber Co. to John 1. Shivele·y, recorded
in Conveyanee Book 6. fotlo 414.
Terma oi e6-4'ash, without appraisemet
Alex.edria, La.. March 14, 1516
F. I. DAVID.
ateriL and ex-OIeo Aetio·aer.
ME.N WWx
Cut This Out---It Is Worth Money.
Don't miss this. Cut out this slip,
enclose with 6c to Foley & Co., Chicago,
Illinois, writing your name and address
clearly. You will receive. in return a
trial package containing Foley's Honey
and Tar Compound, for lagrippe coughs
colds and crmoup, Foley Kidney Pills,
and Foley Cathartic Tablets. J. W.
Duncan Co.-Adv.
Bay for Sale.
First class mixed grass hay for sale
at $5, $6 and $7 a ton. For quantities
and terms apply to
T. K. SMITH,
aprl-tf Fairmount, La.
Strayed.
From ward 4. Winn parish, La., one
bay mare, weight 700 pounds, with
bridle and halter on when last seen.
Will pay reward for any information
leading to her recovery.
T. H. BARNES,
al-2t* Route 1, WVyatt, La.
Fr6e Rallrodd Fdrfto fl16xaodrla
Every one from Colfax or vicinity who bring this adver
tisement and has as much as $10.00 of Dental Work done we
will refund railroad fare both ways.
PAINLESS WITHIN
MODERN
GUA meNTEED REACH :
DENTISTRY OF AI.
EXAMINATION AND ESTkATE PREU
We offer the highest class of modrn dentistry badked I
a POSITIVE 10 YEAR GUARANTEE at the followi ng e
tremely reasonable prices:
Beut 22-K Gold CrerwmKs ad . FGC N. ig . $ Uup,.
Best 2.-K Brdse Wok $4 al w$ I e FOlb h& rm . -WM
Pll Set of Teeth - - - $ up P lahfre u ',t-s -- . M:
NA TIONAL Dental Co.i
1022 Third St. Oar iateria Cafe AIIxaa*lr, l .
CALOMEL IS MERCURY! IT DSI tEI
ACTS ON LIVER ULiKE DYMITE
"3*.iN 's th Tm" 1si Yr Ikir
otr Tnu Cabil nd l 'Is
Sd vab or Nab YTo Sht
Listen tolme! Take no more s,*k.
ening, salivating ealomel when bilious or
constipated. Don't lose a day's work !
Oslomel is mercury or quicksilver
which causes necrosis of the bones.
Calomel, when it comes into contact
with sour bile crasbes into it, breaklin
it up. This is when you feel that awful
nausea asd cramping. If you are slug
gish and "all knocked out," if your .
liver is torpid and bowels constipated
or you have headache, dizziness, coated I
tongue, if breath is bad or stomach soear
just take a spoonful of harmlese Dod
son's Liver Tone nn m-- -'iErrt-e.
It
it
Wake up bu
The Bell Telephone is the Big Ben of Bsiness.
Ring up on the Bell.
You may talk about dull times 'till you lose
your breath but it won't help matters, save ySur
breath to talk into your Bell Telephoe.
Ring up old customers, then start on a fresh list
of prospects, there is no quicker way - none that
eaves more time or expense.
If you haven't a Bell Telephone, get one now.
Call the Business office for sa. ts.
CUMBERLAND TELEPKONE
& TELEGRAPH COMWY
Watch Child's Cough.
Colds, running of nose, continued ir.
ritation of the muous membrame i
neglected may mean estarrh ilr.
Don't take the chances, do momat
for your child! Childrea will not
every medicine but they will take
Kin's New bi r and wthelt
bribing or teasing. Itl a sweet -jls
ant tar syrup and so effetive. Jait
laative enough to elmlates the rss
poisons. Almost the rst does helps.
Always preparedl, no migtxing mlor u.
Jwt ak your druggist for Dr. m i
New Diseovery. It will safeguard
your child against serious ailments re
sulting from colds. -Adv.-S.
Lest, trayed r telem.
A dark brown horse, eight yeL
will weigh about p80 ounds, s
star in face, reached mane, and
scar on right font leg betwesb
and kne. A liberal reward will
paid for return to
W. blr
tabil8t PD r ry
_ II __
stoves sal .60 ~ . M
roe's Lbw .1bm Tab a u mb'
might sa" if it doem't
right up fi ask. id M
backt. tbs gtews I-'
Dodgea'. Liver Tema.; ib
sale of calml bacam. Ls it L rmm
udimeics; acvely vegetabl, theweis,, k'
can met sSlvate or =A*. 7404 Wi*u s.
I guswsalssI atm~ museu .1olC P 54;
son's Liver Tos s f psi year elJlsb
liver to work sad clam year kmvL
thlat sour ble sad so.Upetsl
which i elbggg yIw Iuslm 111W
lig you feel airersd guarsua tbs -
a bottle .1 Dodges's Liver Ta.p .wIN
keep your entire fmly issltg fue fer
mouths. ive It to yar ebibrm. Iti
hafldelf: dlosn't pipsel they llhs R
o oq. enf tnar,
