A Letter to SlUr. Burleson
Ilea. A. S. Burl t a on, Postmaster General, Washington, D. C.
Dear Sin Your attention Is respectfully directed to the
fact that Whereas The Menace is a legitimate publication.
Issued weekly through the postoffice at Aurora, Missouri;
and, whereas The Menace has been regularly entered and of
ficially approved for transnissica through the calls as
second-class postal matter there Is widespread discrimina
tion against this paper on the part of certain postmasters,
clerks, carriers, and other postal employees.
To be epeolf lc we herewith present the detailed facts con
cerning six separate cases in which postoffice employees have
cade untrue representations to this office in each Instance
using form cards for official postal business, and in each in
stance caking untrue statements to the office of this publica
tion calculated to Injure our business and wrong our subscrib
ers. These cases are as follows:
FIRST In January, 1916, this office received the usual
form card from the postoffice at New Haven, Conn., stating that
The Menace could not be delivered to J. F. Mots, 77 Edward St.,
New Haven, for the reason that the party could not be found and
the papers remained unclaimed.
Upon investigation we find that John F. Mots lives at 77
Edward3 St., New Haven; and that he could be found, or the
papers delivered, readily and easily at that address. We do not
know whether Mr. Mots made any formal claims for these papers
mailed regularly to his proper address. The address is served by
n carrier, and we understand it to be a carrier's duty to de
liver correctly addressed mail without a formal demand for each
particular piece.
SECOND In January, 1916, this office received the usual
form card from the postoffice at Seattle, Washington, stating
that The Menace was undeliverable to R. M. Honderson, 3215 Irving
St., Seattle, for the reason that the addressee could not be
found and that papers mailed to him at that address remained un
claimed. Investigation reveals the fact that the address wa3 cor
rect; that Mr. Henderson lived at the address to which we have
mailed his paper; and that it not only could, but should have been
delivered to him as directed.
THIRD In February, 1916, thi3 office received the usual
form card from the postoffice at Station A, Cleveland Ohio, stat
ing that The Menace was undeliverable to Dr. G. H. Weldhui3, 2422
Lorain, Cleveland, for the reason that there wa3 no such number.
Investigation discloses the fact that Dr. G. H. Veldhuis
has resided continuously at 2422 Lorain Ave., Cleveland, for not
less than twenty years. The fact that the postal clerk, who
filled out the card, spelled the name incorrectly with a "W" is
inconsequential, since the question is a matter of the address.
FOURTH On or about the first day of February, 1916, this
office received the usual form card from the postoffice at Cleve
land, Ohio, postmarked Sta. E", which stated that The Menaoe was
undeliverable to Gecrge J. Helikson, 1631 E. 85th St., Cleve
land, for the reason that the addressee was "not found".
Enquiry, addressed to Mr. Helikson the some as the paper,
brought his statement to the effect that the address was correct,
and that he wa3 receiving other mail at that address.
FIFIH In January, 1916, this office received the usual
form card from the postoffice at Austin Station, Chicago, Illi
nois, stating that The Menace was undeliverable to C. F. Johnson,
635 S. Waller Ave., Chicago, for the reason that there was no such
number.
Investigation shows that C. F. Johnson has lived at 635
North Waller Avenue, Chicago, for twelve years. The paper wa3 so
addressed to North Waller Ave. ; and the form card reporting our
label as reading S. Waller Ave., was either a piece of inexcus
able carelessness, or a trick intended to make us remove the name
from our list on an incorrect advice. However, the postal
clerk's error is no excuse for his action.
SIXTH In February, 1916, this office received the usual
form card from the postoffice at Fredonia, New York, stating that
The Menace was undeliverable to John H. Whitney, 141 Free St,
Fredonia, for the reason that there was no such number.
Investigation of this case, reveals the fact that the ad
dress was correct in every particular, and the card from the
Fredonia postoffice contained an evidently intentional mis
statement of fact.
You may wonder why we do not refer these matters to a post
office inspector, and not bother you with petty details to which
you are necessarily unable to give your time and attention. We
have done that, Mr. Burleson, until we are tired of filing com
plaints without result.
We have selected these six typical cases as a means of ap
pealing to the highest postal authority. We have the proof on
file to substantiate each and every charge as made ; and are ready
to deliver thjat proof to you or your representative upon your
indication of sufficient interest in the matter to Investigate
our charges and grant the relief that is due us.
We suspect that there is a condition existing in the Post
office Department of which you are not fully aware. Investiga
tion of these charges, and due discipline of the parties to blame,
may be the means of relieving this paper from a persecution that
is as widespread as it id damaging to citisens and the postal
service.
We would thank you for an acknowledgement of this letter,
and a statement as to what action, if any, you will take to correct
the abuses described. We make this request believing that what
we ask is due us in view of the facts set forth and the evidence
offered to establish them.
Our millions of readers are interested equally with us in
whatever you may care to state; and, for that reason, your answer
will be printed in The Menace, and in the same position as this
so that thousands of our patrons, repeatedly insulted by, postal
employees of a particular variety," may also learn what they may
expect in redress of a grievance that is annoying and intolerable
to many.
Respectfully your3,
Aurora, Mo., April 1, 1916. PZviyzrtcr
Managing Editor The Menace.
Kit
f 1
1
UTien u a Republic
Not a Republic?
men Its Public Of
feu Art IIcl by Tools
of a Foreign Monarch,
Oi
W k i ? T A fi vv
I MEM
ii
This I Number 239
NACE
PAPIST POSTMASTERS
: UNDERLINGS SELF
D THEIR .
mm censors i
:TTyTTTTTTTTxrTTTT1
lxTxixTxljCiXTxTXIxT;
If tie postaC" through whiih'
you pet your nail stinted with
! papif-t postmaster? lKm your mail
run tl gauntlet of petty ccnr
ship before yrau ao prt" it? Do
ofli. ioui Catholic fieri and rarriort'
mala jou uncomfortable iih ex
hibitions of hatred for Tiik MtN
4 t, and ill will toward you be
rauw you are a suWrilier? '
If not, yn are exceptionally fur-'
tunate. We have su!!icient reason
to believe Hint thousands uisu thou I
and of sulwerilicrs for thi per hae been intimidate by papist
jx.ftnia.iNT and employ a to I frightened out of their just right.
Mild niaunered men and women are bring bluffed by the terrorist
taitiia which Koine employs with equal facility whether attacking a
H-actable patriotic assembly or brow -beating a peaceable reader of thi
paper.
In if ill rutahle wisdom the present rational administration has
seen fit to curse, thia country with horde of postmasters whose first
allegiance is to their blessed pope. And that allegiance is so strong
that postal reputation, law, decency, fairness, and all the qualities es
sential to gwnl postmasterhip, are act aside in his service.
Of course all such servant of popery hate The Menace. They hate
anything and tver thing that opposes the spread of popery or threatens
to stem the tide of papal graft. Of that we have nothing to say. It in
the privilege of all to like, or dislike, according to their preferences and
doires.
Hut it ii riot the privilege of an individual to t.ile his personalities
and partisanship into a public ol'W, where it in manifestly his first duty
to reader tlio service for whi h he i paid, w ithout fear or favor. It i
the privilege of a papist to loe his pope with all his mind, heart, and
soul; but it is not hi privilege to misuse a public trust for papist
purjoeg.
Hostile discrimination agiinst this paper and it friend has become
wo glaring a to be no longer tolerable. The time has come for a show
down. If lie and papist are the supreme authority in the (mutoH'ice the
Wilson-Tumulty administration ha so generously given them, the sooner
wo all know it, the better.
It is a common oaurrcnee, of uncommon and growing frequency,
for us to rcveive a notice from Mime ototlu-c briefly stating that copies
of Tiik Menace aldresscd to so and h, of Mich and such an address, arc
"refused."
There waa a time when we took such notices at their face value. We
believed all postmaster to be reasonably honest; and that they would not
make such representations to thi oll'ue unless the paper had been re
fused by the person to whom it was suit Hut experience is a mighty
teacher.
It in jertincnt here to slate that The Mkvacf. is not sent regularly
to any person miles that person ha subscribed for it. or unless some
one has done ai for him. Occasionally the paper is sent a a gift to
someone who doesn't wish to receive it. Thi i occasionally the case
so uncommon to he almost randy the rase. Hut, when it is refused in
good faith, the pner is immediately stopped.
There was a time when these notice of refusal from postmasters
were Itnna fide, and we immediately acted upon them by removing the
refuser's name nun the mailing list. Hut, when, by the grace of
Tumulty, and t'ic Catholic combination now flourishing so conspicuous
ly at the. Capitol, postofliccs from coast to coast begun to fill with papists,
there came an awakening to the fact that a large percentage of these re
fusal were not genuine.
Regulate U. S. Mall and Publisher's
Mailing List to Their Own Taste Make
False Reports on Government Station
ery to This Office In Effort to Separate
This Paper from Its Legitimate Sub
scribersTwo Typical Cases and Docu
mentary Proof, and More to Follow.
.NEWHMN.CG
ntOH this pnsrorncE at new haven, conn., where the poprs knights
Or CO IAMBUS HAVE THEIR HEADQUARTERS AND CONDUCT THUR
CAMPAIGN FOR MAK1NU AMERICA CATHOLIC.
Complainta became numerous. Letter after letter was received mak
ing practically the same statement, of which the following is typical : "In
December Mr. Jonea sent in my aubscription for a year to The Menace.
The paper came regularly for three week?, but I haven't received a copy
since. What is the matter?"
And it took time to discover just what was the matter. Finally, the
fact began to force their way into the consciousness, of the "kick" clerk.
It was discovered that, in numberless cases, a new subscriber would get
no more than one or two numbers of the paper until a card would be re
ceived from hu postoffice stating that his paper had been refused.
Acting i good faith, his name was removed from the list Then
came his complaint, showing that the paper had not been refused by the
subscriber but had been reported refused by some lying postmaster or
clerk. And right then we began to understand the special value of post
offices to the papal system.
The effect was, not only to rob this paper of its legitimate sub
scribers, but to do it even greater damage by creating the conviction
among its friend that their business was not properly cared for or that
we got their money and made no effort to deliver the goods.
We are making this statement in this way so the many persona who
have been ao wronged, through no fault of ours, can understand the situa
tion. We are also taking six specific cases up with the tm After-general
in the hope of having him take such action as will j. t a stop to such
crookedness in public office.
These six cace are object lesson showing the length to which a
papist will go In abusing the office or position which has been entrusted
to him for th purpose of aiding popery by trickery, deceit, and inten
tional neglect f duty.
Elaewhert on this page is reproduced the facsimile of a card re
ceived from iSe postoffice at New Haven, Conn. Thia card states that
The UfXACi vu undeliverable to J. F. ilotx, 77 Edward St, New
Haven, Conn-, and waa dated Jan. 15, 1916. The reatw r the alleged
inability to deliver the paper, as checked on the card, '-.as "Not found,
Unclaimed." f .
' In thia instance we didn't take the postmaster's word for it : bat wrote
one of our many fnenda to hev llaven, for in xacta concerning
particular addressee. Wa omit his
tame, for his protection; but give
hi reply, which it as follows:
"New Haven, Comx,
Tebroary 0, 1918.
"Gentlemen: Hci excuse the
delay in furnishing the above infor
mation. I was waiting to get the
number of the letter carrier on Bro,
Mota route before writing. Brother
Mots hat lived at the above address
(77 Kdwards St, New Have.
Conn.) for four years, and lives
there now. 1 he number of the regular postman on that route is 4.
fMn.vrely your
It thus transpires that there was no reason why Mr. Mots ehould
nut have been found and hi paper delivered without the least difficulty
or inconvenience. We may believe that the papers miht not hava been
claimed, since no long-estahlihhed citizen would think it neceasary to
claim each and every particular piece of mad which is, or might be, sent
to him. ;
This case is cited with particularity because it is typical of so'xnsny
thst their number cannot be even estimated. Clear across the continent
from New Haven, on the Pacific coast a similar caw originating In
Seattle, Washington.
From Seattle we received another of those form cards, a photo-!
graphic reproduction of which appears elsewhere on this psce, stating
that Tiik Mknace was undeliverable on Jan. 21, 1916, to It M. Hender
son, 3215 Irving St., Seattle, Washington. The same reason were given
namelv, "Not found. Unclaimed."
oat 918ft sVjau taunt
Seattle. W.
Pwioawai
IfaMi. t. .ml IhwiV
"Xa.J roTMArfa .
Hjfm-
v
A PHOTOGRAPHIC RKPRnDI'CTTON OP THE CARD RECFTVED PWOM THM TOST
OFFICE AT KKATTLK. WASH. J.OTE THE CHECK HARES.
Since then we have received word from Mr. Henderson, also from
another party in Seattle, Mating that 3-.M.'i Irving St, is Mr. Henderson's
correct address; so there in no reason for any such representation as was
made to us by the Seattle postotHce, save the usual resson of a papist
serving his poe to the injury of the postal service and of this paper.
The fame outfit ii trying to put this paper out of business and
smash every protest against popory, that tried to put Protestantism out
of business centuries ago. They are using the same methods now that
they did then spying, lying, and murderous assaults. If they get us,
they will next get every mother's son who does not bow the knee to the
monstrous fraud they call their pope.
If they close, the mails to The Mevacz, they will next close the
mails to every anti-papal paper and to every anti-papal person; for that
is the logical climax of their present effort. Will you stsnd for ft, or
will you stand by The Menace and by your own rights? We shall have
more to ssy on this subject next week.
A subscriber at Plseerville, Calif., writes: "Regarding your enquiry
shout the regularity of Thk Mbnacb I generally receive one copy
every three weeks. The postmafter is a Konian Catholic."
Word comes from rardeeville, Wis., that of twenty-seven postmasters
recently appointed in the second district of Wisconsin, twenty-four are
papists. Congressman Burke of that district is credited with the creation
of this situation, which is the more remarkable since papists there are
decidedly in the minority.
Connecticut is pretty well connected with the papal censor bureau.
All Connecticut's principal cities, including Hartford, Meriden, New
Haven, Waterbury, Middletown, New Britain, Willimantic, New London
and Bristol, are afflicted with papist postmasters. No wonder the Knights
of Columbus have their headquarters in this sanctified center which sendj
five papists to congress.
From the postoffiee at Gregory, S. D., eomes one of the little brown
csrds, dated March 8, 1916, which savs that The Menace cannot be
delivered to Frank Dreese, Gregory, S. D., because it has been "refused."
At about the same time we received a postal card from Mr. Dreese, dated
March 6, in which he instructs us to send his paper to Burke, S. D. Is
it at all likely that Mr. Dreese would refuse the paper at the sametime
he ordered it to his new address? !
POSTOFFICE CENSORSHIP
Censorship is an invention of the devil to rob mankind of free
dom. Censor is merely a polite name for caesar or czar. Americans
wouldn't tolerate a monarchy, but are unintentionally creating a
nation-wide censorship by putting thousands of papist postmasters
into as many postoffices. M the same time that papist and near
papist congressmen, such as Fitzgerald, Gallivan, and Siegel, are
introducing and championing bills for the purpose of investing the
postmaster-general with autocratic power, the Presidents private
secretary taken tare that the great majority of new postmasters are
"children of the true church." That they are dutiful children is
plainly seen by the evidence printed elsewhere on this page. In
defiance of law and their sworn duty as public officials they and
their help discriminate illegally against the patrons and publishers
of anti-papal publications. They do so because their first allegiancu
is to the papal system; and their loyalty to this country and ita lawa
is a secondary matter. It is their religious duty and personal desire
to serve popery ia preference to the people. Censorship of any kind
is bad. Such a censorship, for the purpose of making America
Catholic and destroying all opposition, is intolerable.
