xtri
Say, hare you" a furniihtd. or un
furnished room for rent? AdVcr
tut it in The San and let it be
bringing yoa in tomelbiog.
We want good reliable
Agents in every city and
town in the country. Write
us for terms.
VOLUME VIII. NUMBER 32.
KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI, SATUKDA . Al'KIL S, 1910.
PRICE, 5c.
The Conduct of the Colored Men
was a Credit to the Race &
mux
Hubert Eaves Refuses
to Salute U. I Flag
Youngster, Eleven Years
osopliy of American Patriotism Tells Judge
Dudley that Flag is a Dirty Flag that Will Not
Protect its Citizens Precocious Mind Awakens
the Thoughtless Throughout the Country.
Des Moines, Iowa, March 24. Hu
bert Eaves, the eleven-year-old son of
Mr. and Mrs. Oliver Eaves, 'who lives
on West Third street, has startled the
country by his new philosophy of
American patriotism. The youngster
has a precocious mind and has read
the history of this country and other
countries and knows the name of every
Race man who exhibited bravery in
th"ewar3 of the United States. He
knows about the 3,000 men of the
Race who were pressed Into service
under Alexander Hamilton and George
Washington's order to authorize the
enlistment of Negro troops In 1775 and
the 400 who stood at the Battle of
Rock Island, August 20, 1778 ; Peter
Salem, praised for his work at Dunker
Hill; the 775 bravo boys of his Race
who were in regiments In 1778 under
Alexanader Scammel, Adjutant Gen-;
eral; the two battalions that were
with General JaJckson at New Or
leans; the names of the brave soldiers
during the Civil War at Mllllgen's
Bend, Port Hudson, Ft. Pillow, Bull
Hun, Antietam and Shlloh. He knows
of their bravery in the Spanlsh-Amer-
Ican war; 24th and 25th Infantry, 9th I
and 10th Cavalry, 8th Regiment of Illi
nois; the battle at El Caney and the
surrounding of Roosevelt and saving
the day for the United States. All
this he knows, but what has this coun
try paid my people for the loss of their
lives, for their bravery and heroism?
These are the kind of questions this
developed mind has put before the
country where his parents are denied
the protection of the flag. Several
days ago" at the school which he was
attending he refused to salute the flag.
It. even loomed up In his mind at the
time when our troops were returning
from Cuba, white men threw stones at
our soldiers. All this rising in his
mind, he did not salute the flag; he
was arrested and taken before Judgo
Dudley and tried. The case attracted
national attention, because he Is
thinking just as thousands of others
of the younger generation. He Is
thinking why should any man of the
race fight for a country or a flag that
will not give him protection.'
Gives Reasons.
To a Chicago Defender reporter, he
said: "Isn't it wrong to have me bow
ing and worshipping a flag that is a
dirty flag; one that does not give my
mother and father protection; a flag
that represents a government that al
lows 'Jim Crow' cars, segregation In
all public places in the South and
other parts of the country; denies us
a voice In state government and who
practices Grandfather clauses and lets
mobs tako our people out and hang
them without trial; show us no mercy
In tho courts, deny us the proper
school education, disfranchises our
people, winks an eye at Southern con
cubinage, ostracizes us In every way."
The Defender reporter was writing as
fast as he could, but he had to stop
and look at the boy and ask him about
his mother and father, Young Eaves
said: "I havo a good mother and
father and I haye been very obedient
For a long while I have been thinking
about these things. I have heard men
who were old soldiers talk some liv
ing today who fought for this govern
ment, cry because of the HI manner of
which they havo been treated." He
said he had even talked to some of his
little white playmates and they said
they did not blame him. "I want to
say," said the boy, "that my mother
did not tell me to do this she left It
with me I would He In my heart if
I say I love the flag when I hate it."
lis was asked' about his relatives. He'
said the family lived near and could
all be reached by telephone and was
known for their unity; all being up on
Old, Starts New Phil
currents and well versed In the Bible.
Treatment to Foreigners.
"The members of the Itace have
done everything to help the United
States become prosperous. They have
helped build the railroads, till the soil,
raise the cotton, tunnel the mountain,
dig In the minies, fought for the coun
try and now are the least In Its con
sideration. Foreigners can come here
and get protection of the Unlted.States
government and never raised their
hands for Its protection but are given
choice places in all public offices and
best positions. My father has been a
railroad porter for twenty-five years
and has stripes on his arm from his
wrist to his shoulder, but is still a
railroad porter,'1 said young Eaves to
the reporter. "In the white papers
they said 1 stayed away from school
to avoid saluting the' flag ;that Is not
so, 1 was away to have my picture
taken for the Chicago Defender," he
said, continuing his story.
The "Birth of the Nation" came to
this city with all Its damnable Influ
ence and left Its prejudice and the Na
tional Association for the Advance
ment of Colored People had done
everything to keep It from showing.
Since the show left here Mrs. Eaves
has been trying to get one of her sons
work but with rib avail. There are
nine children in the family and five
dead. The parents came from West
Virginia. It Is said that there is a
strong racial feeling In the family;
thinking for the best interest of them
selves and the Race that has caused
the boy to have such a determined
mind.
When Will He Salute?
"When will you salute the flag?"
was asked young Eaves by a Defender
reporter. He said: "Look'athe boys
who are members of the 10th Cavalry.
They are now In Mexico fighting a race
of their ow.n color against this coun
trynewspapers now are giving them
space. When they return they can't
get anything to eat In a country whose
flag they fought for"; not even a de
cent place to lay his head. Then the
worst of it all is that after the Mexi-
can has fought this country, he' can
come to the United States and get the
best hotel accommodation, I will sa
lute tho flag WHEN THE UNITED
STATES GOVERNMENT GIVES THE
RACE THE SAME PROTECTION
THAT IT GIVES EVERY OTHER
CITIZEN. When 'Jim Crowing,' seg
regation and other forms of injustice
are stopped then it will be time for
our Race to salute the flag." Hubert
Eaves was ordered back to school by
Judge Dudley. He has looked into
the matter and can not And any law
to effect the boy's schooling and there
Is no crime done for not saluting the
flag. The boy's action, however, has
caused many a one to think seriously,
If they will salute the flag or. not.
Defender. -
A NOBLE WOMAN GONE.
Mrs. Janle K. Hurse, wife of tho
pastor of St. Stephen's Baptist
church, passed away.
Mrs. Janle K. Hurse, the wife of the
popular and eloquent pastor of the St.
Stephen's Baptist church, died at
their residence, J228 Michigan ave
nue, last- Tuesday morning, April 4,
at 10:25 o'clock. The Illness which
resulted In her demise covered a
period of more than three months.
Mrs. Hurse was reared in Lawrenco,
Kans., having gone there when but
a small child with her family. She
leaves to mourn her loss a husband,
five children, a mother, father, broth
er, five sisters and a mother-in-law.
The funeral services will be held
from tho St. Stephen's Baptist church
of which she had been a faithful
member, at 1 p. ra., Sunday, April 9,
under the auspices of St. Stephen's
Temple, S. M. T and R. W. Foster
Chapter O. E. S. The Baptist Twin
City Alliance will conduct the serv
ices and the Rev. J. B. Beckham,
D, D., of Independence, 'Mo., will of
ficiate. Hundreds of telegrams ex
pressing sympathy have been re
ceived from different sections of the
country. Interment will bo made in
the family lot at Highland, tcemetery.
SECOND CHRISTIAN CHURCH.
Hear Rev. Wm. Alphlne of Fort
Worth, Tex., Sunday, Sunday, at Sec
ond Christian church, 24th and Wood
land avenue.
Morning subject: Communton or
Church Ordinances. Evening subject:
Conversion of a Business Woman.
Preaching at 11 a. m. and 8 p. m.
Sunday school at 9:30 a. m. Chris
tian Endeavor at 6:30 p. m. Rev.
Wm. Alphlno of Fort Worth, Texas,
preaching.
COL. ROOSEVELT AND MAJOR
MOTON IN WEST INDIES.
Kingston, Jamaica, 'W. I., March 17.
Colonel Theodore Roosevelt, ex
presldent of the United States, has
been here several weekH tmd tho wholo
Island has been eager to give him a
"look over." The greatest man of
America has been quietly located
about twenty-five miles away at a pri
vate and secluded camp. Several
days ago Major R. R. Moton and wife
arrived at tho port and the neWly
elected principal of Tuskegco Institute
was me, by the colonel and family.
The eddcator came here for rest and
study. He was surprised to see the
colonel, and when ox-presldent Roose
velt drove him out to his camp twenty
fivo miles from here, Major Moton
felt his stay would be exceedingly
pleasant. The friendship of the two
distinguished men dates back many
years. It has Just become known that
Colonel Roosevelt was as friendly to
Major Moton as he was to tho lato
Booker T. Washington. The two have
served on n number of philanthropic
nud sociological committees In the
East. They have spoken on platforms
at the same time for the past twenty
years, and their associations have been
cordial and pleasant. It Is said that
when the colonel wanted to have a
conference on grave matters and want
ed an unbiased, true and conscientious
opinion, he would call upon Major Mo
ton, newly-elected principal of Tuske-
gee Institute.
When the ex-presldent and the new
principal of Tuskegee came to the city
yesterday and drove through the town,
all eyes were upon them. When they
stopped to enter the postofflce great
crowds assembled and yells went up:
Long Live Roosevelt;" "Long Live
Major Moton!" The colonel is a mem
ber of the trustee board of Tuskegee
Institute, and Colonel Roosevelt will
attend the Installation In May.
HEADQUARTERS UNIFORM RANK
KNIGHTS OF PYTHIAS,
Jurisdiction of Missouri, 3510 Cozens
Avenue.
St. Louis, March 23, 1916.
SPECIAL ORDERS NO. 3.
1. Pursuant to Special Orders No. 8
from the office of Major General Jack
son, commanding U. R. K. P., dated
Chicago, Illinois, March 11, 1916:
2. An election for Colonel, Lieutan-
ant Colonel, and such other vacancies
In Battalion Officers as may occur In
tile Second Regiment of Missouri, is
hereyb ordered to tako place on Sun
day afternoon, April 9, 1916, at 2:30
p. m., at their Armory, 18th and
Troost avenue, Kansas City, Mo. -
3. The Regimental Battalion Staff
Officers' Band, Captains and Lieuten
ants of Companies A, C, D, E, and
Troop B, of Kansas City; Company F,
Bowling Green; Company G, Rich
mond; Company H, Sedalla, will as
somleb at the Arpiory on the above
date and will appear In Fatigue Uni
form, Side Arms and White Gloves.
THE LINCOLN HIGH SCHOOL
' GIVES ITS
Annual Singularly High Class Operetta
Polytechnic High School Auditorium
CORNER 11TH AND LOCUST STS. FRIDAY EVENING, APRIL 14
(The above is a group of the more than one hundred persons to take part in the Operetta.)
"THE DRUM MAJOR"
A High-Glass Musical and Literary Play
Will be rendered by the Pupils of Lincoln High School, Friday evening, 8 o'clock, April 14.
The proceeds are to go for the purchase of a $300 set of Band and Orchestra Instruments.
ADMISSION:
ADULTS 25 CENTS SCHOOL PUPILS 10 CENTS
MR. F. J . WORK, Musical Director. MISS CARRIE E. BRYDIE, Dramatic Director.
JEPTHA'S DAUGHTER.
This delightful play will be reproduced by special request of a large num
ber of people on next Thursday night, April 13, at Ebenezer chapel,
16th and Lydla. Those who missed the other psrformance should be
sure to see this one.
All Past Officers and Sir Knights
especially Invited to attend.
4. Capt. Edward Marshall, Regimen
tal Adjutant, and Sergt. Geo. Brlnk
lely, Troop B, Serg1. Thos. Lyons,
Company D, are hereby detailed for
duty as Recorders to this occasion.
5. Capt. T. F. Horlon, Company F,
Capt. Otis Campbell, Company G,
Cept. Luther H. Mason, Company H,
will notify Colonel L.. A. Knox, 1419
East 18th street, Kansas City, the
number of men that will come,. and
the time of their arrival.
6. Colonel L. A. KnrA, commanding
tho Second KeyimeniMs liereby o
dered to assemblo his entire command
for duty at 5 p. m. at the Armory. Ho
will arrange for the presentation of
the Regimental Colors and Dress
Parade.
7. The Brigade Commander, accom
panied by members of his staff, will
arrive Saturday morning, April S, and
will be pleased to greet each jind every
Sir Knight while in the city.
By order of General Butler,
FRANK FERGUSON.
Assistant Adjutant General.
IN
TWO HIGH SCHOOL PUPILS ARE
HONORED.
Miss Edna Hammett and Mr. Ro
land Bruce, pupils of Lincoln High
School Orchestra, had the honor of
playing for a private reception at the
Kupper Hotel on Friday night, March
thirty-first.
MISS EDNA HAMMETT
v announces
that she is open for engagement as
PIANIST
for Receptions.
Bell E. 2943. Home E. 602.
NEW BUNGALOWS.
We are going to build four strictly
modern homes on Flora between 23d
and 24th streets. Will build accord
ing to your plans. Two have already
been ordered.
See us at once If you would like to
order one.
AFRO-AMERICAN INVESTMENT CO
A. Rivers, Manager.
NEW LOCATION 1516 E. 18th St.
Phones Bell East 7S2; Home East
802.
BOONE DREW BIG AUDIENCE.
Ladles' Aid Project Netted Them Over
$300 Concert Was Greatly
Enjoyed.
.The Ladles' Aid of the First Metho
dist church made real money In bring
ing Blind Boone and his concert com
pany, Miss Marie Jackmann, soprano,
and Miss Marguerite Boyd, mezzo-soprano,
here In concert. Over 2,000
people were In Convention hall and
over $700 was taken in. That means
over $300 for the women, who are
paying for the parsonage by their own
efforts.
And the big crowd that heard the
unique program enjoyed it. John
Lange announced the numbers and
they ranged from the serious efforts
from the big composers to the planta
tion songs, full of swing and rythm,
that the composer-pianist sang with
his two Bingers. The young women,
and they seem very young, Indeed,
won encore. after encore and earned
them, as did the big pianist, who was
in the best of good humors.
His work Is remarkable, and an evi
dence of his effort and persistence.
One incident of his stay in the city
was his Instant recollection at the
Forum of the Bethel A. M. E. church
Sunday afternoon of a girl whom he
had not seen or heard since her baby
hood. She shook hands and said:
"I am Nona Wllkerson, Mr. Boone."
Back came the answer Instantly:
"Oh, yes, and you lived with your
aunt down In , Mo., and I
held you on my knee many a time."
Hutchinson Gazette.
GREAT EIGHT-DAY REVIVAL OR
MISSION AT ST, MONICA COL
ORED CHURCH, 17TH AND
LYDIA, APRIL 9 TO 16.
Next Sunday, April 9, at 10:30 a.
m. the Very Rev. Chrysostom Theo
bald, O. T. M., D. D., the most elo
quent Catholic missionary of Cincin
nati, will open a week's revival or
mission in St. Monica's colored church,
17th and Lydla, for the colored peo
ple, Catholic and non-Catholic. A
series of Interesting sermons and In
structions will be given and every col
ored person is kindly invited to at
tend. The opening sermon will be
preached at 10.30 a. m. Sunday and
every evening promptly at 8 from
April 9 to 16 there will be a mission
sermon. Admission, of course, will be
absolutely free and there will be no
collections taken at the evening serv
ices. Father Chrysostom Is the most
eloquent missionary of the Catholic
church not only of this country but
of the entire community. His fascin
ating eloquence was admired at Rome
and in many European cities whehe
he preached. Tne distinguished ora
tor is accustomed to preach before
large audiences in the East, where
thousands of attentive hearers greet
him and it is the greatest honor and
favor to have this most noted preach
er come to Kansas City and preach to
the colored people at St. Monica's
church. I cordially I cordially Invite
every colored person of good will to
come and hear this wonderful speak
er. Everyone is heartily welcome. I
kindly Invite those especially who
may in any way be misinformed about
the Catholic church or have any ill
will or hostile feeling against her.
Come to hear and see what we really
nave.
mSt. Monica's church and school was
established by the Catholics of Kan
sas City to help the colored people
and the good work being done there
is a clear proof that the Catholic
church is and always nas been a true
friend and protector of the colored
race. No sincerely upright person can
deny this as a well meaning friend
of the colored people. I kindly invite
and ask everyone to come and hear
the most interesting sermons every
evening promptly at 8 o'clock from
Sunday, April 9 to 16. Come and bring
your friends.
FATHER CYPRIAN, O.F.M.,
St. Monica's Colored Catholic Church,
Seventeenth and Lydla.
Mrs. Rosa B. Scott, who has been
111 fr morn- mrtntna la r ftMinorn ( In c
slowly at her new address. 915 Vine
street. Mrs. Scott would be pleased ,
to see her many friends at this num-, Pforejt Ho has made a practical ap-
ber I plication of this lesson to the United
States.
STEWArtT & SMITH APPPOINTED Because bo has a program which tho
AGENCY DIRECTORS FOR THE country needs at this time, and be
STANDARD LIFE INSURANCE cause he is courageous enough to
COMPANY uree not for PUt,cal effect, but
because ho believes It is right. Roose-
The standard Life Insurance Com- velt is the country's real leader today,
pany, with a view, of increasing its His position does not depend on the
staff and extending its field ot opera-, caprice of politicians or conventions.
Hons In tho West, have selected the Ho has won It by continuing the value
above named firm as its Western rep-. f h8 services to the nation.
resentatlves. Hereafter the business
of the Standard Life Insurance Com
pany will bo handled from the Clflco
of Stewart & Smith, 1615 East 18th
street, in connection with their al
ready large business of real estate,
loans, rentals and Insurance.
Tho firm of Stewart & Smith has
had an uninterrupted career of suc
cess In their lino in Winnipeg (Can
ada) and Kansas City for' the past fif
teen years. The Standard Life con
siders itself fortunate in securing such
a Btrong firm to represent it.
Tho Standard Life Insurance 'Com
pany is now increasing Its capital from
$100,0011 to $125,000 and expanding In
all directions. They are now operat
ing in eight states and giving employ
ment to over 100 people.
STANDARD LIFE INSURANCE CO
"where McGregor sits."
(The following from the Kansas City
Star Is unanswerable ami voices the senti
nientof the people of the West.)
Theodore Roosevelt has just re
turned from a voyage through tho
West Indies. The New lork Sun,
which can not be suspected of par
tiality, devotes a three-column edi
torial to his Journey under tho title
"The Flight of a Meteor."
His reception, it says, affords now
evidence of "the enormous impression
that "this remarkable man has made
upon his times. He sets out
as a private citizen, but he can not
escape from his own fame or from
the eager interest that his career ex
cites among all men. His journey
takes the semblance of a triumphal
progre instantaneously his ship
drops anchor In the Island port. Hon
ors, civil and military, are heaped
upon him at every opportunity. His
visit lights up the slow, dull, back
water existence of 500.000 of scattered
people like the passage of a meteor.
He leaves bhlnd him Impressions of
spiritual thrill and material pomp and
splendor which will be talked of In
superlatives so long as the toddling
children of today may survive to re
call his visit."
He lands In New York and at once
bo comes a leading figure in the news
of the day. Ex-presidents usually are
soon forgotten. Here Is a man who
has been out of office for eight years
and yet still In the storm center of
American life. More persons today
are interested In what Roosevelt says
than in the words of any other man
now living.
It is literally true that since his re
turn from Africa he has determined
what the American people shal lthlnk
about and talk about. Beginning with
his speeches on the new nationalism
in 1910, down through his great cam
paign for social justice In 1912, and
his work for preparedness in the last
two years, he has influenced the en
tire mental life of this country. Ho
did the same thing for the seven years
of his administration. He has con
tinued to do It since he became a pri
vate citizen.
The reason is evident. Roosevelt
has shown a unique combination ot
Idealism and practicality of compre
hension1 of national problems and en
ergy in finding and urging the next
step in their solution. He is at tho
same time a man of vision and a man
ot affairs. There are many prophets
in the country and many fighters.
But the great prophet, who is also
a great fighter, does not appear more
than once or twice in a generation.
When he does appear he naturally be
come sthe leader of his age.
In the present world crisis brought
on by the war, -when old standards
have been destroyed and nations have
been forced to readjust their policies
and modes of thought, it was inevit
able that the course of the United
States should have been profoundly
affected by Roosevelt. Ho was tho
one man before the public who com
prehended the new problems and their
significance to this country.
While President Wilson was still as
suring the nation that its Isolation
prevented it from having any vital
concern in the affairs of Europe, while
congress was asleep, while presiden
tial aspirants were dodging, and while
th elndustrlal leaders were devoting
themselves to making financial profit
out of the situation, one voico was
raised and one only, for preparedness.
By virtue of his sincerity, his infor
mation and his understanding, he
made himself heard, and gradually
brought the government to a partial
acceptance of his program.
He still remains, however, the one
conspicuous man who has grapsed the
real meaning of preparedness as part
of one great national policy. While
others are urging this or that prepar
edness measure in a fragmentary way,
he is proposing a comprehensive pro
gram of social justice which will give
every citizen a stake in the country,
and which will make military training
contribute to national efficiency. He
has learned tho lesson of Germany,
where all citizens are expeted to co
operate to do away with misery and
! want; and to make a country worth
it maKes no auierence wnai mo po
litical manipulators do. Where Mc
Gregor sits, there is tne head of the
table!
MASONIC NOTICE.
The final initiation of the John
Lange lodge, U. D. A, F. and A. M
will take place Saturday, April 7, at
9 p. m. All candidates must bo ready
at that time. All Masons invited.
U. FULLBRIGHT.
LINCOLN ELECTRIC PARK.
Open to public tomorrow night.
Saturday, April 8, for one month by
Ethiopia Film and Stage Production
Co. All kinds ot attractions. Rain
or shine, plenty of cover. Admission
10 cents. Arthur A. Anderson, Im-pressario.
