BARRE DAILY
VOL. XX NO. 21.
BAUKK, VKKMONT, SATUHDAY, Al'HIL 8, 1010.
l'HICK, OXK CKXT.
THE
TEUTONS GAIN
YARD BY YARD
ON VERDUN
ANOTHER ENTENTE
CONFERENCE CALLED
Will Meet at Paris April 20 to Discuss
Economic and Commercial Questions
President Poincare Will Preside.
Paris, .April 8. A conference of t lie
entente allies for a discussion of econom
ic niul commercial questions will nsscm-
ble in Funs April 20. it will be attend
...l l... ........ .i.-i: i .,
. i u ay iiiiiiiv uinillltiiBllcii ucicyiucw, III-
They SeClired a rOOting 111 eluding a number of cabinet ministers
. . , ,Tr from different countries. President i'oin-1
TWO bmall rieiCl VVOIKb care ill preside and the principal sub
, , j Meet of discussion will bo the mutual ex
lietWeen nailCOUn, dllU change of commodities under the tariff
- r ., ' x-, i system favoniblo to the allied nations.
Hill No. 287, the French
a lr a i v a t n x utitri t r w
A 1 ? J AN- WHAUIAWS UKlVUfl UU1.
war urnce aqitiils, vj-lcx
Night Attacks
GRENADE ATTACK
NEAR VAUX FAILED
By Rush of Germans in Mine Craters at
St. Eloi.
London, April 8. Bitter struggles
with hand-to-biind lighting, are in prog
ress on tlio British front south of Ypres
and to tlie northwest of erdun.
Part of the mine craters captured by
the British at St. Eloi te- days ago havo
been retaken by the Germans. It is an
nouneed from Berlin that these position:
were defended by Canadians, lhat the
ri... TU;,,,-f- o n A British are attacking to recover th
lift ween DcuuiJiuum nv . . pviHnt, frnm Iflst niaht.
Chattancourt, the French at gt Eloi thp enemv gu(,
Claim That the Grenade kcie1, roini"K R PSio", ofP V;e
VJ""" ground we captured March 27. The light-
Fighting Turned to Their r col't,n?c.B; . v , ,
to "Last night after a heavy bombard-
Arlronf otp Tntprmit.tPnt mollt a B"w'1 enemy raiding party en-
Bombardment to East of River Anore' but waa qu'y lrivcn
out.
MeilSe I "To-day there has been artillery ac
tivity limine couenez, Aix--ouieiie, i.
hloi and lprcs."
Paris, April 8. The Germans renewed
their attacks on Haucourt in the Ver
dun region last night and gained a foot
ing in two small field works between
Haucourt and Hill Xo. 287, the war of
fice announced to-day. The fighting with
GERMANY "UNCHANGED."
According to Lord Ccil Who Answered
Hollweg.
London, April 8. Lord Robert Cecil,
minister of war trade, in a long and sar
castic reply to the speecti in Hie Keicn-
grenades between Bethincourt and Chat- ""J? " Jieuiinann-noiiweg, con-
tancourt turned to the advantage of the .... '.'A ,... r..,r.
still
VILLA BEGS
PROVISIONS
AT PARRAL
He Also Sent His Emissaries
into the Town to Test the
Spirit of the Garrison, to
See Whether the Soldiers
There Were Hostile to
Him
REPORT WAS FROM
MEXICAN SOURCES
United States Officials Say
That if Villa Really Has
Reached Parral, the Pur
suit Will Mean a Long
Grind, with a Test of Endurance
French. East of the Meuse there was
an intermittent bombardment of the
French positions. Near Fort Vaux the
Germans made an attack with grenades
and were repulsed.
French Progress Southeast of
Bethincourt.
Progress in German communicating
trendies southeast of Bethincourt was
announced by the French last night. The
oflieial report was as follows:
'In Belgium our heavy .artillery has
carried out a destructive fire on German
organizations at Middelkcrke and Lange
marck. 'West of the Meuse, after a violent
bombardment, lasting several hours, the
mistake.
many is unchanged. We have
to deal with the same Prussianized pow
er. Zeppelins still creep by night ove
the peaceful countryside arid drop bombs
on women and children; submarines still
lurk in the depths of the sea and send
to the bottom unarmed merchant vessels
neutral or belligerent, with all their non-
combatant passengers and crews. Their
methods of warfare remain ruthless and
inhuman, just as falsehoods and effront
ery continue to be their chief diplomatic
weapons.
PICK HARDING
FOR CHAIRMAN
enemy directed against our positions to
the south and o the eastern outskirt J 01,10 Sei5ator Chosea Republican Na-
tional Committee of Arrangements
of the village of Haucourt a strong at
tack on a front of about two kilometers.
"Stopped by our curtain of fire and
the intense lire of our mitrailleuses, thi
Germans were unable to reach their goal
and were forced to retreat to their
trenches, leaving on the ground numer
ous bodies.
in Chicago.
Chicago, April 8. Senator Warren G.
Harding of Ohio yesterday was chosen
as temporary chairman of the Republi
can national convention by unanmioiis
vote of the committee of aranaerTtenta nf
'Southeast of Bethincourt we made, ,. Rpmihlican national committee at, its
inrougn me use oi grenaues, some prog- meeting here,
ress in the communicating trendies ana Harding's selection as the "keynoters
the elements or irencnes eapturea last of .i, (,nv,,ntjon came fter a few min
night by the enemy between Bethincourt utel!. deliberation bv the committee. Chi-
and Hill -do. capo ltcmihlicana bad nrevionslv an-
A rather Violent oomnarumeni 01 l.e nonnceil that. ( 'onn-ressmim Jsniea K.
.Mort linmrae anu iiimicres vinage s Mnn woM be the choice
taken place. Whether reports that -Mann might not
r.ast OI Hie .ueusc anu in iiie mttrvn;
El Faso, Tex., April 8. Information
from Mexican sources to-day said that
Villa had reached the environs of Parral
and had sent emissaries into the town to
test the spirit of the garrison and also
to obtain provisions., Xo verification of
the report was possible, but the fact that
the bandit was rciiably reported only 50
miles from Parral two davs ago gave
olor to the story.
Army officials say that if Villa reached
Farral the chase must settle down into
a steady grind, with the issue to be de
cided as an endurance test between the
United States soldiers and the bandits.
erated a magnificent hotel there, but like
Santa Itosalia, it has been deserted for
the last two years.
The message from Torreon has again
revived the drooping hopes of a success
ful termination of General Pershing's ex
pedition. American troops arc known to
have reached Satevo and are believed to
have pushed south of tht town. Th.i
chances that another dash lilte Ilodd's
rido to (iuerrero may bring the troopers
of the United States up with the fugi
tive bandit, eagerly la being discussed
here.
PURPOSE DONE,
SHOULD LEAVE
Was Speech of Well Known Member of
Carranra Government, Speak
ing Unofficially.
El Paso, Texas, April X. "American
troopers have accomplished their object
in destroying Villa's military power and
should therefore withdraw from Mexico
without delay," was the view expressed
to-dav by a well-known member of the
Carranza government, speaking, unoffi
ciallv, '
FRESH TRAIL FOUND
BY AMERICANS
Report Just Received at Columbus Says
That Most Important Scouting
Work Has Been
Done.
Expeditionary Field Headquarters,
south of Namiquida,' April 5, via aero
plane anil wireless to Columbus, X. M.,
April 8. That the American troops are
on a fresh trail of Villa is the report
made by an army aviatvr and observer
who returned to-day from what may
prove one of the most important scout
ing flights of the campaign.
DENIES PERMISSION GRANTED
WILSON
HURRIES
HOME
President Had Set Out on a
Week-End Cruise on the
Naval Yacht Mayflower,
Intending to Be Away
from Washington Until
Monday
WORD IS EXPECTED
FROM GERMANY
Secretary of State Lansing
Will Confer with the
President Shortly After
j 1 V i i a m m m
tne matters Arrival in
Washington Late To-day
FUNSTON'S ORDER
IS PUBLISHED
FOR FIRST TIME
there has been artillery fighting during
which our batteries scattered several
enemy gatherings."
BERLIN OFFICIALLY
REPORTS GAIN
War Office Announces Capture of More
Than Two Kilometersjwest of
the Meuse River.
Berlin, April 8. The war office an
nounced to-day the capture of French po
sit ions more than two kilometers wido
in the Verdun region west; of the Meuse.
be acceptable to Colonel Roosevelt and
the Progressive faction of the party led
to sidetracking him was not announced.
(airman Hilles of the national com
mittee said Roosevelt's announcement of
his probable candidacy had not entered
into the discussion.
"Roosevelt's announcement was not
surprise to me, Hilles said. "But it did
not have any effect on our choice of
chairman.'
Hilles declined to comment otherwise
on Roosevelt's candidacy.
Committeeman Ralph Williams of Ore
gon said his only surprise was that the
olnnel s announcement was so mild.
Harding was in Chicago at the time his
choice was announced.
FRENCH SHIP FLED
RAIN OF SHELLS
AND GOT AWAY
CONSTANT EXPLOSIONS.
The Colbert Was Attacked by a Subma
rine Without Warning in the Mediter
ranean Sea Gave Wireless Alarm
as She Distanced Her Pursuer.
Marseilles, France, April S. The large
Frenoh passenger steamship Colliert was
shelled without warning by a submarine
in the Mediterranean sea, but her su
perior speed enabled her to escape. At
the same time she sent out a wireless
warning to other vessels.
I-ondon. April S. The loss of three
more liiiti-h vessels was reported to
day by Lloyd's. The steamship Braiiton
and the schooner Clyde of Whitable.
were blown up and their crews were
saed. The steamship Chant ia was sunk.
HOLLAND MAY CALL
HER 1917 RECRUITS
Bill Has Been Submitted in Dutch Parlia
ment to Permit It if Necessary in
View of Extraordinary
Circumstances.
New York. April 8. ,uierpe Arich-
iello was con icted of the murder of Bar-
Inet BstT, a iNiultrv dealer, in November.
P'M, by a jury in supreme court here
I at i' lo k Irn-t nij;ht. The verdict was
guilty of murdiT in the first decree.
Arirhiello remanded for sentence
April 14.
The man conit-i e-terdar wan the
I first of fmir to g on trial on the chart. e
of s-'syinc lUff at t!ie behest of buine
ri!s who wished him put out of thi
war. .lo-ph and Ant'-ni" ZfTmrano, sl
indict. 1 fur minder in the tfrt dern-e,
will be tricl immrdiafly. the itttrKl
runs. Arril C It I4 announce-! to- I attorney (&. annotinoHl.
!v that French iufmrine h Mink I Th- ironmcn ! Tj-t with t kil'mir
b Aa'trwn Iran-port in tiie Airiatle of laif wre not 4itur-.l urt.l Id
sa, uiuLliu ai'Ui the u.u-
london. April P. A bill has been sub
mitted to the second chamber of the
liutth Parliament to authorize the gov
ernment, in view of extraordinary cir
nimttancM. to call up, if necessary, the
recruits of the 1917 rlas,ayi a Reuter
dispatch from The Il.ipue.
AUSTRIAN TRANSPORT SUNK.
Fell Victim to French Submarine in Dd
riatic Sea.
Accompanied Spectacular Fire in Ba-
yonne, N. J.
Bayonne, X. J., April 8. A spectacular
fire here late veterdav destroyed a
400-foot pier of the Texas company, a
loaded oil barge and more than 100,HK)
gallons of gasolene and petoleum. The
damage is estimated at $200,ihiO. The
cause has not been determined.
The lire broke out on the pier in a
pyramid of 50,000 gallon cans of gaso
lene awaiting shipment. The flames
spread ouicklv to tSOO barrels of lubricat
ing oil and to a barge laden w ith 4.V000
gallons of petroleum.
Constant explosions of cans and bar
rels reembled the noise of a battle. The
(lames leaped more than 100 feet into
the air aad could be seen for miles along
the water front.
The burning oil spread over the waters
of the Kill von Kull. covering an area of
a square mile and became a serious men
ace to shipping. Before the lire was got
ten under control the entire city fire de
partment was railed out as well as New
York City and Standard (hi company fire
fighters.
Did Not Include Directions for the Death
or Capture of Villa But the Dis
persal of His Bands of
Bandits.
Washington, D. C, April 8. The orig
inal order given Funston on March 10
for the American punitive expedition
into Mexico was made public for the
hrst time to-dav. It did not include di
rections for the de.ith or capture of Villa
but was principally directed to the dis-
porsal of Villa's outlaw Iwnd.
runstons order said in part:
"You will promptly organize an ade
quate force of military troops under
Pershing and direct him t proceed
promptly across the border in pursuit of
the .Mexican band which attacked to-
lumbus ami the troops there this morn
ing, March !). These troops will be with-
Irawn to American territory as soon a
the de facto government of Mexico is
able to relieve them in this work. In
any event the work of these troops will
he regarded as mushed as soon a ilia s
band or bands are known to be broken
up."
Brigadier Heneral Scott, chief of staff.
declared to-day that Funston has not yet
reported this tank is accomplished.
The Mexican embassy today an
nounced that no advices hud been re
ceived from (Virranza that the de facto
government forces are prepared,, or de
sire, to relieve the American troops and
assume the task itself.
General Scott would express no opinion
as to whether he believed the orders to
Funston had been completely carried out.
Secretary of State Ijinsing emphatically
declared that no request for the with
drawal of American troops had been
made, either formally or otherwise.
For American Troops to Use Mexican
Railways.
Queretaro, Mexico, April 8. The Mex
ican government has not given the Amer
ican government permission to use Mex
ican railways for any purpose whatever,
said General Candida Aguillar, Mexican
minister of foreign relations, after a
meeting of the Carranra cabinet yester
day. At the cabinet meeting, General Car
ranra and his advisers discussed the
modifications suggested by the United
States in the recent proposals for an
agieement for crossing the frontier. be
tween the i nited States and Mexico by
the armed forces of the respective gov
ernments. The latest proposals of the
Washington state department were re
ceived here Thursday, having been sent
by Elesio Arredondo, Mexican minister
designated to the United States.
General Aguillar denied vigorously
stories published in the Aniericau pre.is
to the effect that thj Carranza govern
ment had given permission to the Unit
?d States army forces to use Mexican
railroads for transportation of foodstuffs
and supplies.
"Please rectify these false statements,"
said General Aguillar to the Associated
Press. "The Mexican government has
not given the American government per
mission to use Mexican railways for any
purpose whatever."
Washington, D. C, April 8. General
Carranza agreed about two weeks ago to
commercial" use of the Mexican North
western railway for shipment of sup
plies destined to United States troops
in Mexico and such shipments already
are Iwing sent over the road to pri
vate parties. It is assumed here that
the statement of General Aguillar was
made to reassure the Mexican people
that the Carranza government had not
allowed the American expedition to take
control of the road.
Washington, D. C, April 8. President
Wilson, who left lust night On the naval
yacht Mayflower for a week-end cruise
will return to Washington at once, arriv
ing at 4:30 this afternoon. The snow
and sleet was given out officially as the
cause for his return.
Secretary of State Larking said that
no information has been received from
the German government regarding the
submarine question but that word was
expected at anv time. Secretary Lan
sing plans to see the president to-night
When Wilson left Washington last
night it was stated definitely that no
argumentative notes will be sent to Per
lin. The administration virtually had
concluded that a German submarine tor
pediwd the Sussex, and the principal
point at iKsue was considered br I nited
States officials whether Germany will
adequately punish the officer responsible
This was stated following a lengthy ses
sion of the cabinet yesteday afternoon
MILFORD, N. II.,
CUTTERS UNCERTAIN
Claim Is Made that Men Have Not Late
ly Been Receiving Strike Pay
from Headquarters.
CONVICTED IN BAFF CASE.
Giuseppe Arichiello Found Guilty of Mur
der in New York.
NO REQUEST OR INTIMATION
From Carranza Government to Withdraw
U. S. Troops.
Washington. I). C, April S. Recurring
reports that the (arruniyi government
had asked, formally or otherwise, for
withdrawal of the American forces from
Mexico were disposed of lajit night by a
statement from Secretary Lansing. He
natlv ilrnied that such a reo,ue--t had
been made, formally or by intimation or
suggestion.
Mr. I-nnsitig explained that when the
American expedition was ordered across
the border to pursue Villa General Car
ranza had inquired of the state depart
ment regnrding the proposed strength of
the force and campaign plans. Since then
the de facto government has lieen kept
advised constantly regarding the prog
ress of the chase.
DIED AT AGE OF 84.
Henry J. Vaughan of Stowe Was Native
of Pomfret.
Stowe, 'April 8. Henry J. Vaughan,
who died a Waterbury Center yester
day, aged 84" v ears, was a resident of
Stowe seven years, living at the lower
village for the years and on Maple street
for two years, moving from here to
Waterbury Center 27 years ago. He was
a native ot I'omtret. and uvea in mm-
lleex and Waterbury previous to com
ing to Stowe. He was a veteran of the
civil war, serving two years in Co. K,
it h Vermont regiment. He leaves his
wife, Mrs. Samantha Warren Vaughan,
to whom he had been married 60 years;
fuir children. Mrs. Cora Morrimn, Miss
Milford, X. If., April 8. It is generalls'
understood that the settlement of the
Quinr-y strike will govern actions here.
The men held a meeting in Granite Cut
ters' hall yesterday and it is under
stood that as soon as they receive their
back strike pay they will go to work.
There has been no pay received from
headquarters at (Juinrv, and it is under
stood that the reason is that the strike
roll, as sent in, is wrong, as it contains
names of men who were not working
here at the time of the strike.
The quarrymen have received no pay
in the last week. When the trouble
started they voted to lay aside $,VK for
the men who were not working at the
time the trouble started. Now their
money is gone and they have received
none from Barre. They voted in the lo
cal here that every man who was a
member of the local would receive his
strike pay whether-he was working at
the time of the strike or not.
GUILTY OF ASSAULT.
John
Charles Sargent Convicted and
King Pleaded Guilty.
Rutland. April 8. Charles Sargent wan
found guilty of the charge of assault by
a jury in Rutland county court yester
day afternoon. .John King of Middletown
Springs pleaded guilty to a charge of
committing an assault upon Mrs. Bea
trice Cone of the same village, while a
jury was empaneled and several wit-
Kmnia Vaughan and Kdgar F. Vaughan nesses examined in the case of stale
of Waterbury Center, and Erustus j nuainst Calvin Rich of Mention, who is
VILLA AGAIN LOCATED.
Was at La Boquilla, According to Dis
patch from Torreon.
El Paso, Tex., April R. Francisco
Villa was definitely located at I Bo
quilla last night in a code message re
ceived here from Torreon. Mexico. lj Bo-
iiiilla is iWi miles southeast f Staten
and about an equal distance north of
Parral.
The message said that the bandit had
been at Santa Rosalia a couple of davs
ago and from there had turned west to
La P.iuill. Santa Rossaha is on the
Mexican t entral railroad. Ml miles south
east of hihuahua City. It was formerly
one of the ml important mininp towns
in central I hihuahua. Some millions - i ,
American dollars are said to have been
neted in the Santa Rosalia min and
i-melter but the place has been practi
cally deserted since Mexico prceit
trout, 1, br?an.
From Santa Fli. a short spur on
the Ontral railroad rnna wet to Iji
H)uin. about miles distant. Tl;
latter place is the ie of the famou
i.akrtiTw hot rririt-s. bca'th r-ort
hi. !i rivalled the m -'t cel. bratr I t
of ti.e ointment in the das f I'ortirio
Limi. 1 1 was run fej Autic wLo j
Vanghan of Santa Rnwi, Cal.; end two
sitters, Mrs. Verona Chamberlain of Mid
dlesex and ,Mrs. Christina Leonard of
Ripton. The funeral will le held at hi
home Sundav.
PRACTICALLY SETTLED.
Chicago Milk War Is Claimed By Farm
ers as Victory.
Chicago, Apr'l S. The Chicago milk
war was practically settled yesterday
and within 24 hours it was predicted the
normal supply will be restored to the
city, which in-es l,7."n,iifMt qmtrts a day.
The result, is claimed bv the farmers as
a complete victory. They demanded an
increase from 1.3.! 1 .1 per 100 pounds
to $1..V and this apparently is the price
they will get.
-
!
! BLIZZARD IS SWEEVING '
i OVER MANY STATES j
I Xew York. April S.-Snw was
I falling to-day in this city and
i many parts of the eastern section
1 of the country and wa growing
' increainly bivv. .n inh ..f
now fell here in two !,. nr Icit
bo-aiiM" of the mild temperst ire it
' was nieltins rapidly. The we-.f'-er
bureau predicted t'at 4.e stor?-
would be follow--d .r hiS w ;n Is
! from the nortbeat.
much i in -V cf row
Ml in many parts of IVnnst a?iia
and New .Ter-r tt-br. " Three
in'hcs were reported in Ph.la.M
phia at 1" o'. ' w-i, tin. m-r.n2,
) !. ir report.-! abm-t tan
in and in iit?ern hw two
and one half im-he-s Kad faU'-n.
barrel with aanlting John McLaugh
lin. State" Attorney C. V. Poulin ap
pears for the prosecution in all thei-'!
cases, while Attorney It. IL Stickney rep
leseiitel .Mr. Sargent, J. C. Jones is coun
sol for Mr. Rich and B. L. Stafford ap
peared for Mr. King.
71 APPLICATIONS
FOR LICENSES
TO SELL LIQUOR
The Applicants Mentioned 22 Distinct
Addresses as Their Proposed Loca
tions Hearing To Be Given
April 18.
Seventy-four applications for licenses
of thu first, second and seventh classes
anil one for a druggist's license had la-en
received by the liarre license commis
sioners, W. II. Ward, John B. Kelly and
John Kobins, when the time fixed by the
commission for makipg application ex
pired at 8 o clock hist night. Applicants,
apart from one druggist applying from
4H Noryli Mum street, applied Iroiu 'Si
ditinet addresses in the city. To-day
the commissioners authorized the first
publication of the applications and at 1
o'clock this afternoon the places where
the applicants propose to locate were
posted by the chairman ot the board.
The aifL'reirate is believed to be the
largest in the state this year. Until
Thursday only 14 applicants had filed.
A day later the number had jumped to
50 and between noon and the hour of
closing last night 24 additional namos
were filed. The commission met last
evening at 8 o'clock and liegan ut once
the work of getting the notices Teady
for the printer. Lach application is to
lie advertised three times, to-day for the
first time, next Saturday for the second
time and on the .following Monday the
notices will appear for the third nnd
last time. A hearing on the applications
is to be held in the council chamber at
city hall on the afternoon of 1 ucsday,
April 18, at 2 o'clock. At that time any
persons aggrieved over the proposals to
locate in several addresses given below
w-ill he beard bv the commission. Ad
vices from the state's attorney has sanc
tioned the program of advertising and
posting outlined by the commissioners.
Here are the locations named by the
applicants in the applications filed with
the commission: .'lo.'l Xorth Main street,
Scampini block; 12 Pearl street, old Otis
hotel; 83 Granite street, Merlo block;
247 Xorth Main treet A. Tomasi block;
.')2.1 Xorth Main street. Xortlrern hotel;
14 Granite street, building used until re
cently as a store; .'12.'5 North Main street,
B. Tomasi block; 4.'J7 North Main street,
Ossola property; Ilti'.l Xorth Main street,
Cleary block; 3.m Xorth Main street. G.
Tomasi block; 16 Pearl street, Otis ho
tel; 8 Merchant street. A. Tomasi block;
135 Xorth Seminary street, near Shurt-
leff place in Pombrio building; 4!) Berlin
street, Molla block: 107 South Main
street, business block at the end of the
car line; 24.'1 North Main street, Z:inle
oni block; 102 North Seminary street,
Monser Deep store; 303 North Main
street, Brown block; 155 North Main
street. Henderson block; .'157 North Main
street, G. Tomaai block, 34 Granite.
street, Langlois bottling wtirks; 255
North Main street, A. lomasi block.
In a number of instances it will bo
noted that the name of an individual or
firm w attached to two applications, one
for the first and one for the second class,
th e applicant leaving it to the discretion
of the commission to decide which, if
anv, he shall receive. The list of appli
cant is given below.
John J. Cavhue, first and second, 30.1
North Main street; K. A. Prindle; first
and second. 12 Pearl street; Angelo
Scampini. second, 30.3 North Muin street ;
Alfred Gerhetti, second, 303 North Mjiiii
street; William Kmslie and William
Wright, first, 33 Granite street; O. N.
Marciasi, second. 247 North Main street:
lolm It. Cassellini.' first and second, 303
North Main street ; John Papin and John
Nelson, jr., second, 325 North Main
street: James V. Sullivan, first and sec
ond, 14 Granite street; Charles M. Hawes
second, 247 North Main street; Joseph R.
Mh relief ti, first and second, 247 North
Main street; Anthony Tomasi. first and
second, Ut North Main street; Angelo
Calderarn aid Frank K. Comolli, sec
ond. 325 North Main street; Tehahlo
Rossi, second. 323 North Main street;
Paolo l.uchini. second, 325 North Main
street; P.. A. Urown, fifth, at 48 North
Mnin street; John B. Brusa, second. 325
North Main street; Italo Portaluppi,
first and second, 437 North Main street:
Levi T. Bianchi. second, 323 North Main
street; John R. Tierney, second, 247
North Main street: Thomas (J. McGotr.
first, 3i!0 North Main street: A. F. Brog-
gi and John Ko-so, fiivt and second, 355
North .Main street; lnvid XV. Faulkner,
second, 1(1 Pearl street; Joseph Frontini.
first. 437 North .Main street; Giuseppi
alilernra. second, 325 North Main street :
Frank Calevro, eecond, 325 North Mnin
street: Joseph Merlo. first and second,
303 North M.iin street: Charles R. G.il-
lagher, first, 33 Granite street; refer
Merlo and Alexander Brew, first. 33
Granite street; Joseph Comolli, John
(eals and Francesco Broggini, second,
325 Xorth Main street: J. Kdward Mur
phy, first and second. 8 Merchant street;
Albert Bertram), first. 33 ;ranite street;
David Pombrio, second. 135 North Semi
nary street; P. P. Molla, second, 40 Ter
lin street; Giuseppe Caldortiri. seventh,
325 North Main street; Frank K. Austin,
second, 247 North Main street; Clarence
K. Wood, second, 107 South Main street.
William A. Keillv, second, 3o3 North
Main street: A. C. Jones, second, 243!
North Main? street; Monser I'eep. til t !
and second, 102 North Seminary street:
Rinaldo Cwleagni. first and second. 33
SAID AUTO WAS
MOVING FAST
Witness Described Course of
Cross Machine Out of
Montpelier
CRASH OCCURRED
SJ)0N AFTERWARDS
Plaintiff's Testirr ' Nearly;
Completed ".ich vs.
Cr
s
OUlt
i j 2-43 North Main street: Ihiniel F. Keefe.
i fir-t nnd second. 437 North Main street;
J. I. u-sola. first and second, 4"37 North
sir in mi" ik init, . . a A i,i -it-
a . 'or r l1 c rrvi : i n rnri I 11 i lit?, frroTl'i.
ffnt was ci veil tho cau jterrt4iv ! " . . ' ' ., ' '
iM'.'i ii inu ti l j i i t lut A n im ur u uvi ni
until 3 o'clock lant nilit, it being mi
ucrtMT that tlifre w.m tome jneticn
a Al... : ,c .! T . .. c-
gent was indicted on a charge of ar..a,,l.(Iillt Murrl,V- ",,, ,, ,,, .;-,
,',!'rt':nt to1k,,,1- ,. . t ' North Main vtr.-et: John 1!. lir.w. Ii.-t..;
While in a dnu.ken conditio,, Sargent,,,, Nn-th Maj ,,,. Kritnk Kra.pielh. J
po.r.je.! a s:m at Policeman Martu, hen- ,.rat a, ni1 Nortt, M.lin. A.
r.e 'y and T. C. Klworth. wh.-n they went ! ,ir... r i:,,,,,;., .;r. .l ..n.I l.s.
fo ti.e Nvy P.aird N'oyes house on F.d- Vll, s(rw, . M;rtin M.-Mabon. tir-t-i" ' ,:" r VTn who w. rc at the s. en
s.n street to arrest him. and it Via I 3r7 North Main street: Jo-eph tomolli,!"' t1"" accident, briefly told tit they
claimed he thr.atcned the loi.i-r-. u j .(,, 1,,, franc. 4-0 lir.guini. first. 357 ; f"'l ob-emd at tiiat time, the .o-ition
the stand eMcr:y Sargent denied that ; Iirt), i.lln street: James Hn-tinJ- anil"' l! 'r and the il.ip,:i"e done.
he threatened anybody, f vot a sniail 1 i-,t v I ..,l,.i. ."SI l.ranife I'r. Ilarkne-s told ot N-ing c.iile.f tnat
d ie w'lich w,i ninninr- Ki;t the lc . 11. e . 1.0 ,.- 11. .1,11, i;,-.t and w.-onJ iiici t sn.l ot 11 1 tending t e iniured wmn
XMicn Washington county court wan
adjourned by Judge Fred M. Butler this
noon until 0 o'clock Tuesday forenoon,
the plaintiff in the ease of Seth C. P.icli
vs George M. Cross, was nearly ready in
rest the case and the defense will prob
ably start introducing witnesses Tues
day, afternoon.'
This forenoon Mr. G'lirieti, employed
at the Bailey grist mill, the last person to
see the Cross car before it took the
plunge down the ravine on Xnrthfielil
street which resulted in the death of
Mrs. Seth C. .Rich, told what he knew
of the accident. He had accompanied a.
young ladj; to her home on Xorthfield
street and was starting on the return
tri to the cily proper when he noticed
the automobile - routine toward him.
bound for Xorthfield.
His attention was first called to tlia
car by the lights of the machine as it'
came over the crest of the hill and sped
past him. He was on the left hand side
of the road. It was his opinion that
the car was traveling rapidly. As soon
as the machine left tlie road he ran back
to tlie scene and discovered the car with
Mr. Cross seated at the steering wheel.
Mrs. Green was not in the car -when htj
reached it.
He was followed on the stand by I Jr.
C. E. Hunt, who testified that he visit
ed, earlier to-day Miss Evelyn Brown,
the voung lady who had been escorted
home on the night of the accident by
Mr. OBricu and found her condition sucli
that she. was able to come to court and
testily. Attorney Austin explained tliati
the young lady had asked to be excused
because of a severe cold. Arrangements
were made to have the lady appear Tues
day as she now resides six miles from
Montpelier.
Kussell Allen, a chauffeur with several
years' experience, who said he had been
employed at the Cutler garage in Burro
and tiie Cross garage in Xorthfield and
was now in the employ of T. A. Wright
of St. Johnsburv, followed. He told of
seeing the Cross car in the Northfiehl
garage the morning following the acci
dent and described closely the damages
to the machine. He said that lie had
driven the car, a 11)15 model, and had
"made'' the Xorthfield hill on the high
gear. It was possible, he believed, for
the machine to obtain a speed of 5
miles an hour on reaching the top of
the bill and it could be made to pick up
speed from that point on past the sccno
of the accident. An examination of the
machine the morning following the acci
dent, revealed to him a jammed front
fender, a broken running board on the
right side, a slightly crushed hood, a,
jammed rear fender, the rear seat was
bent backward three or four inches, the
upholstering of the rear seat was torn
in several places and the front axle aiel
steering yper.wcre slightly sprung. Tin
right uont wheel, which preceding wit
nesses hud testified was crushed, had
been removed when he viewed t lie car
and a new wheel placed in its stead.
Yesterday afternoon City Kngineer
Keed, Policy Officers Sloan and Baldwin,
Chief of Police Connolly, I.. A. Kelty,
reporter for a Montpelier paper, airi
)r. W. K. Harknesg followed cadi other
on the stand in the order given.
Olliccrs Sloan and Baldwin told of be
ing called to the scene of the accident,
of the position of the cur in the tieM
when they arrived and of taking -Mrs.
l'ieu to the hospital. She was in an 1111
conscious state when they arrived an I
was lM'ing held in A sitting posture by
a man. They followed up the tracks of
tlie automobile and found that ti e car
had evidently started to leave the road
at the crest of the hill and they found no
signs indicating the machine hud been
turned abruptly to one side or had -k it -led.
The auto was astrid" a rock ill
the field, the stone projivting up
thioiioh the right runnim; board. Cross
told Officer Moan that he had turned out
for another automobile coming toward
him.
I.. A. Kelty said that Cross had ap
primi lied him aliout 2 o'clock in tlu
morning and held conver-atioi, with him
relative to the accident. The Witne s
said that Mr. ro-s' specih wa thick
and was in a statu of intoxication. I !
could not smell Lis breath Imcmusc his
-ene of smell was nearly lost.
b'lcl.ar l Jerome .-Mi l George Marl in.
He was not ..,ined.
VERMONT BUSINESS TROUBLES.
North Maui 'reet.
FEWER BURLINGTON APPLICANTS
an. lie returned to North:. rid street,
iler taku --j Mrs. Kicli to ttie hospital,
there .-itten , 1 her.
Fid New ton, Middlebury Farmer, Ha . And None for Fifth Class License This
.a -ff rw.Kia Year.
Kut land. Apri' -Fred Newton, a
farn:'r I'vinc in Mehlli hurt . through lo
attorney, 1ir!e K. "ak. of tlo iti.
t:'d a petit! 'n in hanlmMcr with I iiit-
ed Stst-- ( 'erk F. S. I'!..i! vc-fer iay :t
frWMii. Me ha liability of . 27
arvl asrta c f li-i-T'. it . 1 "g a fan-,
vl:ie. at ti rr 1 whi ! i- ruort,-tg-" I.
His s-fi dob h. w imwsured !rn ol
!"; and . 11 red htim of M ! go.
N0KRIE SMALL.
Th -,iir. i ?,,!! tJ. Nmt'.i
lwi-il- m. bi le rnotri:e of M ."
to U it. AlJ'-n. "f "- 1 !.! '1
t l,l run and another m.rtjge i
to Mr. Alien, aJ t MeJlrtu-j.
Bnrlinsrton. April .- TI ere h.ie b-m
I. ut 37 pli at "Oi for li. en-- to , ;
, b.jiior in tins c't fli 1 with tlie li.-en-e
'coin"u--ioiirr. wl.nh 1 a i ry n,-i.
valer Miidr thin is o-ui!)v til.-!, t'n
r,oTnM r rnr'i.'t g a- 1. g'i a no in ore
prrti.rt. year. Of t e 37 rt'..r I tor
ros-vi-ei to ti ohk la-t eteri.rg. wh-n
t . tin" liiiiit p r l. I nere were 10
; r p'l.n t f-T !..- n-s f the ri;:b !
r "r'ig.'-' ' l.eir-. It ) ii',ic-t-i
1'iit t'e ,-rt !ge ,e.J .'. ; t
f,n r -.- ' I t 1 . : ,,, t
1 - f! '. f.:-l r : t.t ,1 ! eg
g ' -t t t'i. si w a Tiiari-T, i J t . r
t cast at tLe Mr-h ,
!
!
; Toranio Woman and Barre Man Mimtl
' La.'t Even'.n;.
I'.-b-n Wi-f iiit snuS! of
lor.n.to. i,-t . an j i.,hij. hup Nm
..: ti - -t w. i,- mairi'-i -it ti.". l'U--iet
t'-.t l-t en g at ! o I k Iv ( it -
I .oh .',.,- M ", I . " re:-f ,.' aid
a '- iflni.ate fri-tiU tie t-r i ft
-.-: v 1 n.-- 1 . t , ,- -r The
i.r a:r I i i" .?- f'-in Ti r.w t.
. ., ... - . t t oo f i f i... r s t.
I. T I.'.,,' ! I.- ,tf N T e i -'!.; i. u 1
a -" ' ':'? r r I t'e vti-a
w .ii lakc r i."l;if la Lalic,
