Generally fair to-day and probably to
morrow; light south winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 83; lowest, 71.
Detailed weather, mall mid marine reports on page. 8.
IT SHINES POP, ALL
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 341.
44-
56 PAGES.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
NEW YORK, SUNDAY, AUGUST 3, 1916. CopyHunf, 191fcoy the Bun Printing nnd PuHiihltiy Aitociation.
BRITISH FORCE
BACK GERMANS
ON MILE' FRONT
Fresh Gains Made at Po
ziercs in Face of Intense
Bombardment.
STRAIGHTEN LINE AND
AVOID TWO WEDGES
Blast Away Teutons' First
and Second Row of
Trenches.
TROOPS RUSH INTO
RUINS ENEMY LEFT
Frencli Still Hold Gains at
Thianmont and Flenry
in Verdun Fight.
London, Aug. G. More than a mile
of the German second lino In the Im
portant sector of l'ozleres hug been
taken by tlio British and Is held de
spite an Intense bombardment, On.
Sir Douglas IIuIb announced to-night.
From Thlepvnl to Ovlllcrs the llrlt
line rnn Almost due smith. It
turned northeast at Ovlllers nnd ran
through l'ozleres thus describing a
bend almost ns sharp as a V. To the
east of Pozlerex the line ran through
Buzentln-lc-l'ctlt nnd then
,,,,, I
lliruumi
Fourcaux Wood, tracing a very shal
low U. To-night the V has become n
straight line; so has tho shallow l. I
,ha tiri.iuh i.iin iu i,.n..Mr
threatened by the two wedges.
i.iicnu unme m wr.i.
The fresh advance of the Ilrltlsh ex-!
i.p.Im the iruh.s man., vesterdev west of
I'ozlerea ami force the Cent. aria back
to their third line defences in this region.
WI11CI1 U1V nujJJiuseu m lie .una III.: rfi- ,
bcrt-Itapaume road from I-a Courcelette
null 118 WIIOUCU IIU.KIU lu .M.iriiuiiu.i-ii
and Its -copse covered crest, about ivo
miles northeast of l'ozleres. Outty.ng
trenchcii still, however, siparu'.o the
Ilrltlsh from the main third defence
line.
After being driven out of their s . ond
line trenches the Germans made stub
born counter attacks, repented many
times, but tha Ilrltlsh held their new
galns and repulsed (he Germans, with ,
heavy tosses tu tho latter. Several hun-1
dred German prisoners were captured, i
The victorious British blow north of
l'ozleres tightens their hold in tlio h gh
Vi?. .ipio wiii,.h tho Alliori.lt.innimn
highway passm.
l'ozleres lies nbout six and tlirec-piar- entered In these tests,
teis mile, from Baiiaumc. the Immediate I The War Department already has pur
ohlcctlvM of tin- llrlilKh ilrlvi. on thi. chased u30 Lewis guns as well as a
the
Koinme iroiu. ny pusnnig lurwarii norm
of the village and breaking down the '
si-cond line defensive system of the Ger
mans over a wide front they haio,
pressed appreciably nearer their goal.
lllnsteil I. Ini". Awn. '
The "Anzae" corpi with troopw of the i
new army from Knit, Surrey and Sussex
did the work. British guns literally
blasted away the German nist and sec
ond line trenches, plerro of all cillbres
pounding away throughout Friday until
It was time for the infantry tush.
n utiii nciil iiiii.iiiii null r.'irimiu ,
Tl,., and nulckly occupied the ruins of
Tho trocps went forward with r.nlendld
the enemy defences.
Then came the most trying time "rt
all, for the German shell file dliccted
at the advancing British became un
usually Intense, particularly at th
I'ozleres-Uapaume roa1 nnd for a short
stretih on eacli side of It. In spjtc of
this fire, the British were able to "con
solidate their position," and iirenare It
for defence against counter attacks.
The most critical period of the ad
vance has now passed Gen. Hati makes
clear, and the new ground Is firmly In
Ids grasp.
The French apparently did little on
the Somme front to-day. Paris an
nounces the dispersal uf some German
patrols. Berlin nays nn attempted
l-Vricli ffflvanco south of Maurcpas was
repulsed.
j
French Hold Fleory.
On the Veidun front the flshtlng
"ems also to have died down toward
night, with the French still In posses
ion of thflr hard won giuund at Thian
mont and the village of Fleury. Ger
man attacks apparently had exhausted
themselves. '
All through Friday night and until f
o'clock this morning the Get mans had
attacked a-jaln nni again, without other
limit than heavy losses.
Merlin mentions bitter fighting at
these points and says 46S prisoners were
taken. Klcury apparently remains nn it
hh, mostly m French pnntcpalnn, but
lth the Germans retaining a foothold
in part of the village.
'TIDE TURNED" JOFFRE
Vrnlnn (hnnueil the
Praise for America
,i.i..i.
l" Vnilr.il I'rrKK,
Or.STRAI, IfgApqAttTEKH Of Tllg FlIRNC'll
Amir, Aug. B. Vlvtory for tho Allies
Is now certain, as Germany, flshtlng now
'vlth her back to the wall, boglua to i.
veil weaknesses. Gen. joffre, French
cninmiuider.ln-chlef, told a group of
American correspondents ho revived on
the occaon of the second anniversary
of the war.
The French commander would not
venture an opinion as to when the war
would end, There Is no evidence of any
Imminent German collapse on the west
ern front, he emphasized, buthe tide of
war bus turned for the Allies with tho
nicre-ful hi. 1 1 i,l made b the Fii-iidi ut
Verdun, The Allies, m pointed out, are
Raining strength on every front, even In
'he Halkans, where tho newly equipped
Serbian army is ready to take the offen
live. The correspondent were escorted to
0vNiwaB JHflh Pat.
THE SUN TO-DAY
CONSISTS OK SIX SECTIONS
AS FOLLOWS:
Paces
FIRST -General Ncwi, Auto-
mobile! 12
SECOND
THIRD
Sportinf . Kennela . .
New of the Retorts.
Drama. Faihioni, Real
Eatate. Schooli, Cardena
Pictorial Magazine . .
Special Feature Section .
Editorial. Foreign, Booki,
Queriei, Financial, Prob
lems, Chen ....
FOURTH
FIFTH
SIXTH
Total
56
Rtaittt or ntutitehtt ukt io not ft
itltt ell of that itctloni utll tenftr a
fator en " Tht Sun" iy notify In tht Pui
Ikalion Dtpartmtnt ot omt iy tht phont
(HOO Bttiman) and mhilnf lutlent
will it pramplly Jtrtcetiti If penlilt.
BRITISH REPULSE
TURKS NEAR SUEZ
14,000 Moslems in Campaign
Aided by German and
Austrian Forces.
Lonpov, Aug. S. British positions
near Rnmanl, cast of Tort Said, aire
being attacked by 14,000 Turks, accord
ing to an official statement Issued by the
War Ofllce. The Turks nro attacking
along i front of seven to eight miles,
the' statement says, and so far have been
repulsed.
The Turkish attack comes as no sur
prise to those who are In close touch
with the operations In that part of the
world, Gen. Sir Archibald Murray, who
commands the Ilrltlsh army there, hns
long realized that the Turks, with the
I assistance if the Austrian nnd Ger
mans, mignt make a serious attempt on
tlio canal even at tho hottest period of
the year.
Austrian and German engineers for
many
months have been digging for
water, aim it is oellcveu tne Turns nave
. ,.l tl, nr., null nrr.i ..i.mxul for Its
storage nnd tiantnort.
! It Is understood the Turks have with
I them knmrt 1 nfli) In 1! .flftO Atmf ro.Ger
man Infmtry as well as a large number
of lledouln Irregular horse
JMII1IUI11 in i UI!tKC IIV.lt LUJPl Ul
the Mediterranean and about twenty-two
miles to the cast of the Sues C anal. It
. al)OUt ttn n,lM nor,hwMt of Katla.
where several engagements recently have
been fought between the British and the
i a. ui rvo.
JJAXHINE GUN TESTS ORDERED.
n,mr, ( Army
(Mirers tu Meet at
Slirliiftllvld, Mass.
Washington-. Aug. 5. The War !)
partment has ordi-red a board of officers
consisting of Major William R. Smed
bcrg. Jr.. of ths cavalry , Major Gilbert
II. Stewart of the ordnance department
nnd First Lieut. Thomas W. Itrown,
Seventeenth Infantry, to meet at the
Springfield, Muss., armory on August
SiirlncHeld. Muss., armory on Aucust
10 to conduct tests with various typ.s ,
of automatic machine gum. These rltles
Include the Ilenct-Mercle now us-ed by ,
the army, the Colt machine gun and the
Lewis machine gun. The Vlckers ma-
rhinr. ili!r. which was mini. ted for the'
'army sevetal months ago, will not be
number of Cjlt guns. It Is practically
Impossible to obtain a further supply
of the ll net-Me'rcle or Vlckers machine
rlflei at this time.
One of th inoyt pointed lessons of the
Rurupean war has been the advantage
of a great number of machine guns.
SOLDIER SAVES MAN IN SEA.
I.leut.
Morrison of K-."i Leaps
to
nesene at Newport.
Nkwpout. It. I.. Aug. 5. Lieut. Joe It.
. .. i....,i t- i,,n,..A.i
0 r ?
overboard from tho ferry steamer Gen
eral as she was going Into her slip to
day and saved Patrick Sheehan. a
wharf employee, from drowning. Shee
han was reaching out to catch the Gen
eral's lino when he fell overboard, strlk
lug his head on one of the pilings.
He was In serious danger of being
cnught between the prnpiller and the
side of the slip when Morrison, a power
ful swimmer, leaped after him, fully
clothed, nnd by quick work towed the
unconscious man to open water. Both
nien were picked up a few minutes later.
TAG G ART TAKES D0Q TO SENATE
Lead Pointer to llemocratle Cloak
Room Pave WaU'tirs Hlin.
Wabiiinoton, Aug. R. Senator Tom
Taggart introduced nn innovation In the
Senate a few days ago that stirred that
I austere. body to mild revolt, Taggart led
a pointer dog Into tile Democrutlc cloak
i room, It was learned to-day.
Tho Hcnat r from inaiana sam nc iiiq
not tako the dog Into tho Senate cham
ber. Ho declared that It was a valuable
dog und ho did not can- to turn him
adrift. A Senate page guarded the ca
nine during the session.
SALE OF INDIES OPPOSED. 1
Danish Papers Attuck Government
for Treaty With It. H, I
iAis'boN, Aug. &. oine oi me i'n nun
conservative papers have opened a vlo-
lent attack on the Government over tne
i tie.ni. with the I'nlted States for the sale
' I .,. . It. .-...I ImllAU nnpnrjlln. I n
Ol Hie IJUIliail l-ni. Iliu',.1 ..vvw.
a Copenhagen despatch to the Kxehange
Telegraph Company.
Tim Xatiannl Tittrwte says: "In a
uuestl n cf such ureal Importance for
the whole nutlon tho Government acted
In h manner Its worst antagonists would
nut have believed It callable of. Nobody
but the Danish Government would have
risked such a course."
WOULD EXTEND INCOME TAX.
Democrats Vole t Lower F.xemtt-
linns to lt,Hn and f .'I.OllO. articles or war, reduces the total appro
Washington, Aug n.-The Demo-1 Prtatin athe measure passed the Ken
cratlo members of tho Senate Committee , tati'ie known tn-dny that as It will
on Finn live voted late this afternoon b" ,,0 r,port,,i for final KppiuvaKlhs bill
a narrow margin tn lower the cxemp-, carfei $287,6911,000, against tSil.wTO.OOO
tlons unuer we ini-unii. in ww ru mui
tho tax will he Imposed herenfter on In
comes of 12,000 nnd over In the case or
single men and fl.000 and over In the
case of heads of families. Members of
the committee said afterward that thi
action would probbljr be rtver Itter.
GERMANS RUSH TO
AID OF LEMBERG
Mnkititf of Hindcnburg Su
preme Commander First Step
in Counter Attack.
TROOP TRAINS TO EAST
Fctrogrnd Announces Cnpturc
of Two Galician
Villnpcs.
LownoN. Aug. 6. Von Hlndenburg's
assignment to supreme command of the
Austro-Gcrman armies In the east Is the
first step In a greater counter offensive
to stop the Russian advance which
threatens Lemberg. according to reports
which reached here to-day from neutral
European centres and borne out., des
patches from Berlin. '
Troop trains have beer) departing for
tho east at frequent Intervals from the
German capital. Field Marshal von
Mjckensen .has Joined Von Hlndenburf
to assist 'him In the great undertaking.
The German public ha been apprised of
the plan and the crowds at the railroad
stations to cheer the reserve as they
start for the battle line are described as
enormous.
The Austrian achieved some success
In the southeast to-day, where they bent
back Letchltsky'i line In the Carpathian
mountain passes. From Amsterdam
comes a report that In thl sector the
first blow of the counter offensive will
bo struck, for two reasons the first
that the situation looks worst for the
Russians there, and, second, because of
the political effect on Rumania any Ger
man progress there would have. It Is
believed that a few weeks will see the
development of nn aggressive German
campaign In the east comparable to that
of the summer of 1915.
There was heavy fighting south of
Brody to-day and the Russian", accord
ing to announcement from Pctrograd
to-night, captured two Gallcl.in villages
and drove the Austrlans from a wood
between the two towns. They bettered
their iiosltlons between the rivers Gra
berka and Sereth and held their ad
vances against nine counter attacks.
They took 1,200 prisoners.
Petrograd admits, however, a retire
ment In the Carpathians, and reports
the righting extending In the direction
of Delatln.
WARRANTS OUT TO STOP DUEL.
BlrmlMSfkam Pabllc Safety Chief
Aska for Arrest al Editors.
BntuiNOHAM. Al-,. Aug. 1. Warrants
for the arrest of Victor li. Hanson, pub
lisher of the Birmingham and
W. Ilnrrett, editor of the Bffmlngimm
i;r-criM, were sworn out to-day by
Arlle Barber, Commissioner of I'litillc
Safety, nho alleged he had leason to be
lieve the two men Intended to tight a
duel.
The warrants are the outcome of a
controversy between the papers, culml-
noting In the publication of a card In
yesttrday morning's Ape-llrruhl. signed
by W. II. Jcffiles, business manager.
which Hanson claimed reflected on his
bulnes honor.
Hanson wired Barrett In Ashevllle, N,
C, demanding thnt he disavow or assume
' nrannfil rMHnnnslhltltv. Thi. A nr.Hrrntil
rubllshed tne Hanson tvli'Xi.un tills
morning with one from Barrett accept
ing full responsibility and offeitng to
meet Hanson aftev next Tuesday.
Hanson's bond was fixed at $2..,000.
llnrrett will be arrested on hi' reiurn to
Birmingham.
FORD TO DRIVE PLOW TO MUSIC.
Goes West, With Hawaiian Slav
ere, to Ihotr Ills Tractor.
Detroit. Aug. 5. During the coming
week farmers In the vicinity of Fremont,
Neb., will behold a gray haired man
mounted upon a gasolene farm trnctor
ploughing wide fuuows through their
fields while a quartet cf vocalists at
some convenient spot on the roadside will
entertain with various melodies. The
demonstrator will be Henry Ford, the
musicians his Hawaiian quartet,
Mr. Ford has contemplated for some
lime a demonstration of his tractor l
the wheat farmers of the middle West,
With him when he left to-day were his
son and a force of twenty-two mechanics
from the trnctor plant, besides the
quartet.
"I'll give them chin music while the
tractor and Hawaiian singers do the
rest," said Mr. Ford to-night.
TWO DROWN AT CONEY ISLAND.
A Boy of n and n Man ot 24 Are
the Victims.
Two persons were drowned off Coney
Island yesterday. Ixiula Welsenger,
aged 9, of 191 Livonia avenue, Brook
lyn, hnd rt cramp whllo swimming be
yond the safety Hues. His cries at
tracted the attention of Samuel Young
of 858 De Kalb avenue and Dr. Harry
Katz of Bellevue, who brought the boy
ashore. Dr. Katz. with tho assistance
of Dr. Ooodheart from tho Coney Island
Hospital, worked over Welscnger with
a pulmotor. but the boy died,
Nathan Spinner, aged 2 4, of 204 Madi
son street, Brooklyn, was drowned off
the foot of Ocean Parkway, His body
was not rccoveied.
The efforts of several physicians with
a nulmotor yesterday to restore to life
unrry Kpstein, su, or it aioore street
Krooklyn, overcome while bathing be-
yimd the ropes In front of Thall's Bath
11,32 Kmmons avenue, Shecpshead Hay,
were unsuccessful, and he died on tlio
beach.
$267,595,000 IN ARMY BILL.
Conference Beport l.opa 4tl,:tT.t,
44T Off senate Appropriation,
Washinuton, Aug, 5. The conference
rennri on the army appropriation bill.
I completed but held up by object Ions of
I President Wilson ant, the War Depart
ment to an amendment to the revised
.jmroprlateifc uy tne Senate bill and
tl 82.000,000 by the House,
Total appropriations for national de
fence have been reduced from 1685,343,
017, where they stood on Senate figures,
to tU,7,III. with th nvy bill still
eubJeeVt revUlo
SURFACE CARS IN 4 BOROUGHS AT STANDSTILL;
24 STRIKERS ARE SEIZED FOR STONING TRAFFIC;
ENGINEERS MAYQUIT AND ISOLATE N. Y. CITY
laaaalaaaaLaaaaaiBLaaaa
BjLBSflaMMMi fcPPlHaHaiala
IBaVflaaEMlBM
aiB HaaBaB JkSlRaallillllaHaaa 1 BnB9''Vjifl aaBaB'aaBH
iMjaMllaaaaH.tB3
sVaaaaaaaaa lBlliflK' 'sa
SlaiftfaiQlVB IggggVvegJh!
SKlKttttkM W 'aaaaanHHaaWS
HPgBHk HIHilBBBMkaadaVaHHilaHiHaHUiB aiaH akHalMMHV wk vkjM-vA'. iK.v..mv Viflsfl
Oojijrrlnht Amrrlcsn Trm Ai'oci.nlon.
Street car in Eighty-sixth street
NEW YORK SHUNS
TROLLEYS IN STRIKE
Those Cars Running Poorly
Patronized Because of
Fear of Injury.
F.xperlences of New Yorkers by reason
of the disrupted surface car service,
which became more abbreviated as the
hcura passed until 8 o'clock last night,
when all street cars stopped running,
were not to their liking, During the day
thousands who prefer the street, cars In
the summer time to any other public con
veyance took to the subways and the
elevated roads. .Many, fearing the dan
ger of rlJIng past groups of strikers and
strike sympathizers In the trouble zones,
walked. Others, however, t.ok chances
on the ,iollce protection to cars and en.
IriVfi! u-urwlei in? whether or not the trios
would be eventful. Hut after o'clock
they had to walk r go under ground or
up In the air, and the average New
Yorker admitted ho didn't like the situa
tion at all.
It was evident during the nftern on
that street car riding In New York In
strike times was not popular. Here and
there a car was well tilled and In some
Instances crowded, but the bulk of those
that ran did not carry many passengers.
This was csiwclally true of he cars on
the lower Kast Side. Cars which left
and came Into Park Row had only n few
fares.
Many Try River Boats.
The best business the New York Rail
ways Company did was on Its rrosst wn
lines, although this mtmcc was tcirlbly
crippled because of the knocking off of
crews. Folks wlio wanted in go irom
the east to the west side of the city
had tu use these cars or walk, as there
are no paralleling elevated and subway
lines, nnd th usnnds had to walk before
the night was over.
That people were apprehensive as to
the danger of tiding on street cars was
borne out by the fact that many folks,
mu willing to take risks, left their of
flcvs In the downtown section In the af
ternoon, liftanled McAdo tube trains at
the Hudson Terminal llulldlrg. crossed
the river to New Jersey and reerossed to
New York, getting out at stations nil the
way to the end of the line at Thirty
third Mreet. Then they walked the rest
of the ay to their homes or t ok taxi-
cabs,
Several men In the financial district
timed their departure from their olllcesl
rn toey could eaten returning -oney
Island bolts at the Itattery und enjoy the
sail tn West U'.'th street. This Is a Department Reconsiders Its De
favorite afternoon trip with many It j c.ion , 4n..,i Them
eotts 15 cents but more took It jester-1 elslon lo Xnspenri Them.
day than usual and the explanation was Reconsidering Its previous decision, the
given that they preferred the water to Park Department announced yesterday
the stufllness or the subway or ios.slblo
fusillades of luliiis und stones during a
surface car ride.
Lower Broadway, which Is generally ,
ns deserted as a country village at night,,
had lots of pedestrians enily last eve-j
nlng. They were bound for the Coney
Island bints and ns cms were few and
far between they had to walk. During
the afternoon some excitement was
caused among car Inspectnis lu lower)
I I...,. I ..-..u .lluw.......,.!
!er!cUsch ' Pled"
electric swltin. I ne were pulled out
iio.iui "in" M ""7 "i. . . -
To si
Men llenp llnrvrsl,
Because cars on the Thirty-fourth
street crosslown line ran liifreotiently up i
to nightfall and becam.e the few which
were oneiated were thloiiKfd tnsl men
reaped a harvest getting passengers from
the Pennsylvania Railroad station tn the'
Grand Central ami to the West Slmre
ferry, As a geneial proposition the taxi
men weie lieu, flclarlcs of the Mi Ike on'
the rrnsHtnwn tliillle only, as thoio who1
wouldn't or e-ouldn't use the street cars'
going lenthwlso of the city usually did!
their Journeying on tlio elevated and
subway trains, utmost nil of which were
ciowd-d during the rush hours,
Saturday night Is dinner and theatre
night for hundreds of out of towners and
last night was no exception. Crowds of
suburbanites walked out of the Grand
Central station and lined up on the islile-i
walk to wait for street cars that never,
came. Inspectors explained ubout thei
..H. ...I.I..I. V..i,t Ia.I .... ,l. t I
nil inn . lie n in... ,-i u,i ine euiiiii-e
lines and the waiting ones either walked
west to Broadway bright lights or took
local subway trains to Times Square.
Broadway was unusually crowded Just
i
Continued on Second Page.
near Third avenue after being
JITNEYS START MANY
FIVE CENT ROUTES
Some Strikers Enter Service
Unlicensed Drivers Not
Interfered With.
After alt car traffic stopped last night
owners of nutos, taxis and motor trucks
started a regular Jitney bustntas all over
tho city, particularly on Fourteenth,
Twenty-third. Thirty-fourth, Flfty-nlnth
and other curtus crosstown lints. 'A
fare of 5 cents wns charged.
Long trips up and down town cost
from S to 20 cents. Some large auto
trucks ran as far north as Yonkcrs,
Iarge sightseeing cars were operated
across town on Forty-second nnd Fifty
ninth stre-cts. llach held from forty to
fifty passengers, who paid A cents each.
Several striking conductors pooled their
savings and bought cheap second hand
taxis and hacks which they put Into ser-
"attery for the accommoda-
tlon of returning excursionists who
wanted to get home. Some of the men
Kill wore their uniforms. The majority
ll.ln't have automobile licenses, but the
twllce didn't Interfere with the tralllc.
Old time taxlcab drivers said they
tunivi rn'ii .1 t,iuiif in ..culm lui'll MIC
getting options on second hand autos
uuu iiixienos in oruer 10 lie in reaoiness
to liandlo the situation in case the sub'
ways and elevated roads aro tied up
next week.
FREE SWAY FOR JITNEYS.
Maxlstrntr McQuaitc Hefnsee to
'trie 1'nllcensed Driver".
"Jltliey" cars are emergency means In
the present strike situation In the e.viti of
Maglslinte Mcejuade nnd ale not to be
molested while tralllc conditions are dls
oignuUnl. In the Moirlsmla court yes-ti-.day
Magistrate Mclju.ulu discharged
I've chauffeurs arraigned on a charge of
oper.U.ng Jltnevs without a license
Thi" action followed the announcement
of City Judge Madden of Yonkers on
Tnursilay that he would line New York
dilvers operating without a licence owing
to the refusal of the New York Bureau
of Licenses to show leniency during the
strike.
"The public conies first,'' Magistrate
McQuadc said In discharging the men,
'and the license bureau last, These men
OIK1 ate nubile conveniences under ores-
cnt conditions and they should not be
molested,"
PARK CONCERTS TO 00 ON.
that the programme of park band con
certs will not be called off on account
of the car strike. Six concerts will be
given to-day. ,
So many persons resorted to the parks
yesterday, finding It dllllcult to get any
whejo else, that the department was led
to do everything In Its power to furnish
them with entertainment
Camp Fire Postponed.
Announcement w:is mails List iilht
I "amn "re ,. Bus,, Menl
I Mmtar. instruction Corps, scheduled to
have been held under the auspices of
the Crescent Athletic Cldb at Klghty-.
rlxth street and Shore Boulevard, was
postponed because of the car strike.
IMPORTANT NOTICE
Because of the grave shortage of paper, threaten
ing soon to become a veritable famine, newsdealers will
not be able to return unsold copies of The Sunday Sun
after to-day.
So as to be sure of getting your paper hereafter, do
not fail to leave a standing order with your dealer for
The Sunday Sun for every Sunday.
V
stoned by strike sympathizers.
B. R. T. LAYING IN
STRIKE SUPPLIES
Food Stored in Barns for Bipr
Force, Tliou;h Xo Demands
Are Received.
Supplies were being stored In all the
rar barns and depots of the B. R. T. In
Brooklyn last night as a precaution
against a strike. Food and other sup-
plle enough 1o maintain a heavy force
will be where they can be reached within
a very short time.
This although the company has re
ceived no demands or complaints from
Its men and expects none. In case such
demands are made It can hardly be until
to-morrow. William Slebert, tratllc man-
nger, said there would be nobody theie
to-day to receive the dem mils If they j
were presented at the it. it. t. oiiice.
coi. Timothy wiiii.im, president of
the n. R. T.. and all of ths vlce-presl-
dents went away at noon jetter.lay, as;
usual, leaving word that they would not
return until Monday. Mr. Slebert said j
I . W mi ii t
"le company was not woir.unt, aooui a
strike. The stocking of barns w 1th sup-
plies is simply a precaution against the
unexpected but possible, he said.
William B. Fitzgerald, wbo organized
the strikes on the Third Avenue and
New York Railway lines, has sa.d when-1
ever the II. It. T. was discussed that he
personally had not been to Brooklyn or
tried to organize the men there, other
organizers, however, have been working
In Brooklyn among the 11. It. T. em -
ployees for fcome time and are under -
stood to have reported things there al -
most ripo. announced plans yesterday that mean.
From tho reports of thoo who have , If accomplished, the actual cutting off of
been working In Ilrookl.vu among these , Manhattan by rail from tho outside
men, and from other Indications, It ap-, world.
pears that the call to strike there will j One of the. schemes Is the coopera
nrobably ko out some time this week, tlon of the Brotherhood of Locomotive
The only e'omplnlnt made thus far has
j been that of some motormen and con
ductors who were on the rush hour runs
with little rest between Col, Williams
said he would look Into their complaint.
REJECT PIECEMEAL MEDIATION
Westchester Trolley Strikers Re
fuse Offer of Three Mayors.
Yonkeiis, Aug. B, The Joint commit
tee In charge of the trolleymen's strike
In this city. Mount Vernon ami New
Rochelle to-day rejected the offer of the
Mayors of the three cities to mediate be.
tween them and the Yonkers and West
Chester trolley companies.
The reason assigned was that the men
are no longer striking alone. They Insist
that they must act In concert with the
strikers In Manhattan, The Bronx and
Queens, and that the strike must be won
or lost as a whole.
Frank Halght, one of the local strikers
who has been organizing the men of
New Vork city, returned to-day nnd
addressed a meeting of strikers. He said
that ..i per cent, of the men employed
on tho subway and elevated lines
New Yotk nre members of tho union.
A report tnat .1 ompany 11, lentil Reg -
Iment, N. O, N, i., which has been In
camp up State, will be used for stilke
duty was disposed of to. day when
("apt, A. C. Hogert wired that as soon
as his command reaches here It will tie
demobilized.
We've Enrolled 6,200 Men and
We're Taking In More Every
Hour The Fight Is as Good
as Won," Declares W. D.
Mahon, Union Head.
SHOTS ARE FIRED AT RIOTER
Lawlessness Quelled in East 86th Street and
West Side Manager Hedley Pledges
Double Pay to Loyal Employees
Not a surface car was in operation in Manhattan after 8
o'clock last night, when the few that were running were ordered
into the barns by Frank Hedley, general manager of the New
York Railways Company.
No cars were operated in The Bronx or Richmond, and
approximately one-half the regular service was furnished in
Queens. At a late hour the cars in Queens also were discon
tinued for the night. Brooklyn alone remained unaffected by
the striking carmen.
Traffic on all the lines excepting Richmond will be re
sumed this morning. General Manager Hedley expects to
send out 500 cars. He made a formal request on Police Com
missioner Woods for two policemen in uniform to protect the
crew and passengers.
Officials of the railways in the four boroughs struggled all
day to run their cars in spite of the opposing union forces. Up
to 6 o'clock five of the traction systems in Manhattan, The
Bronx and Queens succeeded in operating, the police reported,
a total of 652 out of 2,294 cars that are normally run on those
lines.
The New York Railways Company, which usually operates
1,291 green cars, had 401 in service at 5 P. M., a decrease of 187
cars from the morning service.
The Third Avenue Railway, operating normr.Trj C'05 cars,
had 46 running at 5 P. M., against 73 in the morn!r.&
The Union Railway in The Bronx. witrrnn oidiTrnry capac
ity of 252, had 99 in service at 5 P. M., against 109 in the
morning.
The Second avenue line, on whicli a strike was called in
the morning, struggled along all day with 22 cars, against an
ordinary run of 115.
rru.. r!..t.. i t e. r - r. i .i i .
' im-niuwiiit iik"
about 100 cars, stopped operation at 6 o clock, when 400 carmen
Voted it Strike.
The New York and Queens Railroad, on which a strike was
voted at 2:30 o'clock yesterday morning, ran 84 out of 131 cars
(lurinor thr dnv nnd tried to crh'fi scrvirn Inst nitrril .
Leaders See
r,.si,,.,lt William I). Million of tlio
j ,.,., ,,.., ,,, nllll , ,r.
, p wm ,,,,,.,,,,,
',.,,.,, f r .,,, , ,,,..
j"" uu " ,n,s 1,1 ra
'" "'" ,"''i "'.
"Wo'vo cni'iillei) tl.'-'iVI men," Mild J
' prt'-lilollt Milium, "lillil wo'ro tilUlllK I
I i, .,. hm,i. ni,, '
I m""' ,,v,,-v llm"' I1,K nht
Is I ns won." '
1 But Mahon and Fitzgerald, not satis, i
i lied with tlelng up every car lu four out.
1 of the five borougi.s In New York city,
Fnglneers In the plan of calling a strike
of all englneeis and mutoimeu operating
In the lailroad tunnels running Intu
.Manhattan.
KiiKllieer. Ilnve (irlevnners.
I received a visit to-day." said Presl -
dent Mihon, "from representative.! of the
Brotherliooil of Locomotive lluglneeis
lepresentlng men winking on the vari
ous lines running through the tunnels tn
New York. They said their men had
grievances and they wanted a confidence
with n. 1 told the men to Invite any of
their men that wished to see us to call at
4 o'clock on Sundav afternoon "
Still another object of nttack on the
part of the strike lenders is the Inter
boroueh Rapid Transit Company, operat
ing both the subway and the elevated
lines 111 Manhattan and The Bronx
Fitzgerald said he had attended secret
meetings of liiterborough carmen at
which a series of demands. Including
recognition of the union, better working
conditions and higher pay, were drawn
nn. It Is legardid ns inieiy mat an et-
,(,., ,n ..atalyze the subway and L lines
! wil, . ,d,. earlv this week.
, i,u. ,t. Ftril.e leaders, rejoicing In
strikes alre.idv declared, are plan-
1 n,. , rgiinlze non-union men engaged
, i i,e niecliiiilc.il dep.ii tmeut of the
transit systems lu .Manhattan and secure
the cooperation of men In those trades
who arc already organized,
Pli'dRca of lil lo t'nrnirn.
It was also raid that assistance has
been pioniisid the cai nun's union by
the I'inli.il Federated Cnlon and the
American Federation of Labor. The-e
oiganlzatli'iis ale expected to call sym
pathetic strikes in lines of work that ,
would ieli the 1 at 1111 11 ill tln'lr gigantic
-clienio of stopping all tralllc In New
York and compelling 5,000,000 persons
to walk.
Then there Is the llinnklyn Rapid
Transit Company, among the employee,
of which the union oignulzers have been
working for two weeks it Is expected
that within a few days definite an. .
nouncenient of the strike leaders' plana 1
in that boioiigh will be made. I
While all these plans were being an-1
nnunced and the work or recruiting phi.
men on the illfTeient lines was going on
the railway olllclals wire busy nP Fro
day night and nil day yisteiday seeking
to stlingllien ineir position anil ge,
ready to give the public
full service
President Theodore P. Shouts of the
New Tork nnllwayk Company, who
made trips on many of tho s'4j)n car
vjvuiiimi , w 1111:11 uui .in-.-
Strike Victory.
i lines, talked with motormen. and even
i ;mu',1 n, to ' "j!;
Sirs' "ilong XJ. XUU
; Proper police protein,,, bis company
could operate their lines to full capacity.
lledle Sn 110 P. C. Are Loyal.
Frank Hedley said firt per cent, of his
men had rem lined faithful to the com
piny and that all the loyal men would
receive double pay during the continu
ance of the strike.
He denied emphatically that the com-
p.inywns employing strike breakers, but
said he w'as seeking In every way pos
sible tn do missionary wink among tlio
men, to give them protection and to fur
nlh them moral encouragement to with
stand the thteiits of the strikers.
"An alarming number of men turned
In their cars this morning after their
Hist trip," said Mr Hedley, tefening to
the New Yolk Railways Company car
men, "becauie of the threats niadfl to
(hioiv Tli.-v lei'itlvi'il Hi, it, mlile cross
, fm llu, ,outl.x.
' "While the police Department fur-
nlshed a uniformed man to ride with
the motorniaii, that has not been suffi
cient, for attacks have been mado on
the conductors, nnd If we are to have
, pioper protection for our .passengers
and our crews we must have a unl-
, formed man riding on the rear platform
' as well."
"Scbeilnlr Time" In qnrrsi,
! I'rr-ldent William O. Wood of the
New York and CJiieens County Railroad
1 hoisted that he was running his cars on
schedule time, ll deemed It necessary,
however, lo stop scrvlio at S o'clock last
night.
IMvvIn A. Maher, Sr., vice-president of
the Third Avenue Hallway Company,
said that In the morning he was furnish
ing better service than on the previous
d..y. It was learned, however, Unit the
Third Avenue Railway s.vsteni was hold
li.l out the olive bianch to the men who
struck In Westchester. The company an
nul need It was ready to arbitrate with
li e union lu regard to the dllllcultirs lu
Westchester.
"It Is ton late for that now," nn-li-nnced
Piesldent Malum. "There was
,1 time when we would have welcomed
a-bltratlon. Now the Third Avenue
must ngree to recognize the union 011 all
lis lines and to discuss the s.tuatinn of
tlei entire system, not alone Westches
ter." F.arly .vestetday nnd nt Instances
th-oughout tin, dav tinting occurred lu
Manhattan and Queens Pickets of tho
111 Ion were assigned to nnniero is places
along every car route, theie to endeavor
bv argument nnd l'i suasion to get the
loyal men tn tin 11 the 1 can Into the
b.iins and e,w-i lu the union.
Poller ninn Plres nl MrlUrr.
ome of the pickets, liiullug argil
1111 :U uselebs, ,eortei. in tine. its aid to
'the veiling of "scib."' Others hurled
bucks nt car", one polictttiun who saw
11
man do that Hied sevual shots at a
striker
Scores of carmen lemahilug l"val and
having encounters with strikeis went tu
the car barn lit Fiftieth Mn-et and
1 "eventh avenue, where Piesldeiu Shouts
and Mr. Hedley made their lieadiiuaTlcrs,
