56th YEAR S8SSS S?? RICHMOND, VA., SUNDAY, AUGUST 6, 1916.? FIFTY-SIX PAGES. S1?8" ? FAIR PRICE, FIVE CENTS.
TRAFFIC GEftSES
OF NEW YORK CITY
Menace of Strike on Ele
vated and Subway Sys
tems Grows Hourly.
STEAM AND ELECTRIC
ROADS MAY BE HALTED
New Element of Danger Injected
Into Situation Already
, Serious.
?HT.VKVS KFAI'IXf; HAKVKST
Attempt Will Bo Made to Ke
suine Partial Servire
To-Day.
NEW YORK. August ?Surfaoe-car
traffic ceased in the Boroughs of Man
hattan, the Bronx an'l Richmond at s
oVlook to-night, an>l the city was In
the grip of the most tr.ins.t
blockade in its history
Brooklyn was the ni^ly borough in
the greater city not affected by the
k t r! k o of motormen an'l conductors.
Only a fraction of the normal number
of cars was in operation in the Borough
of Queens, although the railway com
pany that operates the lines there was
in ore fortunate than the other publlc
Kervicc corporations affected, in retain
ing the services of a large number of
1< yal employees.
The menace of a general strike that
would Include the elevated and subway
lines was growing hourly more threat
ening to-night William Fitzgerald. the
general organizer. declared that by the
middle of next week every employee
of the Interborough would be a mem
ber of the union.
m:\\ i:i.kmi:\t of ii.wt.r.it
in si:niot s srri atio.v
A new elenient of daner, so far as
the traveling public concerned, was
Injected into th?- situation to-night,
when William 1> Mahoii. president or
the Amalgamated As.- ? iatson of Street
and Electr!i Railway Employees, de
dared 'h?t a delegation of the Brother
hood of Locomotive Engineers. repre
senting the men working on the rail
roads running into the city, had called
upon him and asked for a conference.
They were invited to oonfer to-morrow
afternoon with uplon officials.
It was announce^ at headquarters
that this probably meant the members
of the brotherhood would walk out In
sympathy with the carmen if it were
four.d necessary, and thus tie up the
steam and electric roads running into
New York Mahon and his associates
were much elated over the new devel
opments
At S o'clo? k to-night orders had been
issued by every street railroad in Man
hattan and the Bronx and on Staten
Island (Richmond) to discontinue ser
vice for the night. An hour later not
u surfaoe-car wheel was moving In the
three boroughs. The management of
the Manhattan and Bronx lines said
they would attempt to resume service
to-morrov.* morning, but no effort will
be made until Monday to operate cars
on Staten Island.
One after another the New York
Railway Company, the Second Avenue
and Third Avenue Railroad Company,
the Union Railway Company, which
operates in the Bronx, and the Rich
mond Light and Railroad Company
notified police headquarters that they
had suspended service. The number of
passengers carried daily on these lines
Is estimated at 2,500,000.
processions ok jiTNr.vs
FI.OW TilMOl'fJH STItF.F.TS
Within an hour after the halting of
traffic steady streams of Jitneys
were flowing through Broadway, Fifth
Avenue and other streets running north
and south, as well as through the cross
town thoroughfares
For crossTtown rides the regulation
charge. Is 8 cents, while longer trips
uptown and downtown cost from *> to
20 cents
The subway trains were crowded to
capacity. Extra trains were operated
and additional nlatform guards and
ticket sellers -were requisitioned.
On many of the large automobile
trucks fares were collected by strik
ing conductors, some of whom wore
their railway uniforms.
With the suspension of car traffic
the danger of serious disorders became
lt,PS menacing, but the poller did not
relax their vigilance. At 0 o'clock sev
eral automobile trucks loaded with re
volver ammunition left police head
quarters. Boxes of cartridges were,
left at every station-house. Each pa
trolman will be provided with twenty
rounds.
The most serious demonstration oc
cur to-night, when police reserves
rhiriefl a crowd of strike sympathizers,
'aid to have numbered at least 2.003.
who were bombarding a street cat
,v|th stones and attempting to rescue
, prisoner from a patrolman. Women
md children hurled missiles from tene
ment-house roofs The police cleared
thc streets, and the roofs as well.
There was sporadic rioting at sev
eral points during "the'day.
Ilcptiblleani Nominate DiivIn.
ROCK MOUNT, VA., August 5.?B. A.
navl* of Rockymount, was nominated
Lr congress from the Fifth District
L the Republican District Convention
u^rc to-day. The nomination was by
acclamation. Resolutions indorsing the
Republican national platform were
adopted.
ASHFA1IXE. TiAKK .Ttl.\AM!RKA, BI.ACK
MOt'NTAEN und Itrsorts in t lift
"L?nd of the Sky."
now reached via SpartnnbnrK. T.envo Rich
mond 6 P. M. dally. SOUTHERK RAIL
WAY. Phono Madison 272.
President Wilson
in Hampton Roads
Comes Ashore With Wife and
Takes Drive Through Low
er Peninsular Towns.
FORTRESS MONROE. VA., August R.
I?President Wilson came to Hampton
Roa<Is on the naval yacht Mayflower
to-flay and spoilt two hours ashore
automobiling ylth Mrs. Wilson. He
plans to leave to-morrow and cruise
hack to Washington, arriving there on j
Monday morning.
While the President was here Score- !
tary of War Raker, who arrived in the
morning on the mine-layer General |
Schofleld, witnessed target and mine- j
laying practice in Hampton Roads, and
a demonstration of the difficulties which j
would meet a foreign foe attempting j
to attack this point.
If was 2 o'clock this afternoon when '
the Mayflower dropped anchor. The '
President had ordered her to steam
slowly down Chesapeake Bay in order 1
that lie might attend to important cor- '
respondent and work on his speech ;
accepting the Democratic nomination .
for re-election. He remained on the j
yacht until 4 o'clock, and then came
ashore with his wife and drove through
Hampton and Plioehus and to the out
skirts of Newport News. On return
ing they went aboard the Mayflower j
at once.
Just before starting on his ride the '
President was Invited to witness the '
target practice arranged for Score- j
tary Baker, hut he did not wish to
disturb the arrangements, and declined.
Mr. Baker was taken into a darkened
room at the coast artillery school here
and shown a war game, during which
a theoretical foreign Moot attacked the
Virginia capes. His attention was
directed particularly to the value of
fortifications :?t t'ape Henry, recently
provided for by Congress. During the
afternoon mines were laid in Hampton j
Roads and exploded, throwing geysers
of water high in the air.
MAY SETTLE ON II ATE
I'lllt NOTIFICATION
NEW YORK, August 5.?Vance O.
McCormick, Democratic national chair
man, will confer with President \Vil?
.-on on Monday, and they probably will
settle on a day for Wilson's notifica
tion. Mr. McCorm: k. before he left
this city, said he hoped to b* able
to announce the day on his roi-irn.
MAKE SURVEY OF APPAM
Appraiser* Vnmcd liv .In litre Wndrtlll
Will Iteporl to < oiirt To
Morrmv. <
NORFOLK. VA.. August 5,?The ap
praisers named by Judge Edmund Wad
dill to pass on the value of the British
ship Appam made their survey to-day, ,
and will report to the court on Monday ?
morning at 10 o'clock, when the ques
tion of releasing the vessel to its Eng
lish owners under bond will be heard.
Tiie hearing in the District Federal
Court will be on the motion made by
libelants to secure possession of the
Appam. pending a "Supreme Court rul
ing on the decision of Judge Waddill.
awarding the German prize to the orig
inal owners. At the same time the
question of the disposition of the re
mainder of the cargo, the nonperish
able portion, will be considered and
passed upon.
The British owners will insist that
under the court's decision, if the ves
sel is released on hond, they have a
right to bond this part of the cargo
and to deliver it at the original desti
nation.
The liveliest kind of a legal battle
is anticipated over the question of the ;
releasing of the prize under bond. It
is announced that Frederic R. Ooudert, ;
of New York, will be present to hantfle
the case In behalf of the English
owners, while Judge Frederick "W.
Lehmann. of St Louis, recently brought
into the case in behalf of the Ger
man government, will represent Captain
Hans Berg, commander of the prize
when she reached Newport News.
REDUCTION IS HEAVY
Army Hill n* ( ompletcd l?y Conferee?
( nrrlett 1" Lens Thnn
Voted l?y Senate.
WASHINGTON, August 5.?Tho con
ference report on the army appropria
tion bill, completed, but held up by ob
jections of President Wilson and the
War Department to an amendment to
the revised articles of war, reduces the
total appropriat ions as the measure
passed the Senate by ?46,373.447. It
became known to-day that as it will be
reported for final approval the bill
carries 1267.507.000, against $313,970,- j
000 appropriated by the Senate bill and
J1S2.000.000 by the House.
The report will be submitted to both :
houses in its present form within a
few days unless the House conferees
yield to urgent War Department re
quests for reconsideration of the |
amendment of Representative Hay ex- !
erupting retired army officers and en- >
listed men from the military criminal ;
code. Representative Hay said to-day t
retired soldiers were, in fact, civilians, j
and he saw no reason why military j
courts should be called upon to dispose
of their cases when civil courts could [
serve. Opponents of the amendment, j
however, fear exemption from mill- ?
tary discipline will open the door to
acts pre.1udlc.ial to the army's inter
ests.
WILSON IS INDORSED
He I* I nnnlmous Choice of fnlifornln
Prog ton* I von, anil IIIm Policies
Are Approved.
SAN FRANCISCO, August 5.?Presi
dent Wilson was unanimously .indorsed
here to-night at a conference of Cali
fornia Progressives, who also com
pleted the organization of the Wood
row Wilson Progressive League and]
laid jfians for participating In the
campaign of the nation's executive for
re-election. Francis J. Honey, of Los
Angeles, former Progressive candidate
for Senator, was elected president.
Resolutions were adopted approving
President "Wilson's Mexican and Eu
ropean policy.
JOFFRE IS CERTAIN
OF FINAL VICTORY
Effcct of Unity on All Fronts
Becoming Apparent,
He Says.
TALKS TO NEWSPAPER MEN
i
Believes Five Months' Resistance
at Verdun Shattered Ger
mans' Hopes.
HRADQUARTKKS OK T11R r,KN
KRAI- STAFF IN FHAN'K. August
(General Joffre, generalissimo ??f the
French army, ami tho guyling spirit of
tho united army of tho entente allies,
to-day received tho Associated Press
correspondent here. Ilo expressed tho
view that the turning point of the
great con filet now had lit-fn hiivcfs
fully rcarhi'il and passed, and that, with
th? united action of tho entente al
lies on tho many fronts, thoy were
pressing forward to tho certain col
lapse of the foreign efforts and to an '
assured victory of tho alliod armies.
It was an exceptional opportunity to
seo ami talk with the military com-!
manilcr, who is the senior commander
in tho united action by which the
allios aro conducting simultaneous cam
paigns in th<> Hessian, French. Balkan
and Italian thoat'rs. This recent co
ordination '>f the commands on the
many fronts has pf riniitc! 'I'jnoral
Jfiffr" to give full scojy? to his mili
tary tall-tit. whi*'h probably has been
exercised over more men of the allied
nations than ever has fallon to one
inilitifry comman'ler.
general Joffre was in his private of-'
flee tat headquarters when the party
of American correspondents arrived, the
visit having been arranccl for the an
niversary of the opening of warfare.
He presented a striking picture as ho
stood there anionic the staff officers.
Most French officers are scrupulously
well tailored and groomed, and. while
General Joffre was not lacking in this,
yet there was something sue nesting
General Grant's disregard of the little
conventionalities of uniform and sur
face appearances. His heavy gray mus
ta he and bristling hair gave some suc
costion of General Phil Sheridan, the
groat cavalry leader.
i:.\piu-jssks Km i:\osiiip
POII I MTKIl STATUS
"I want to express my satisfaction
in meeting you. gentlemen, and throurh
you to express our feelings toward the
American people," said Genera 1 Joffre.
speaking In an easy conversational
ton o.
"A feeling of deep friendship has
always existed between France and
America, and it is particularly oppor
tune now. after France has been light
ing for two years for the ideals dear to
both countries, that this old friendship
should be renewed and strengthened."
Turning to the actual condition of the
campaign. Genera! Joffre continued:
"Although tho fighting is getting more
and more bitter, every one recognizes
in the complete unity of the allies that
destiny has shaped its . ourse, and
every one an clearly see what the final
outcome is going to bo The unity on
all fronts is a great characteristic of
the campaign now going on, and the j
effect is now apparent in the constant
pressure on all sides by the allies, who
now have had time to form Iheir plans,
thanks to the sacrifices which the
French nation has made at \ erdun.
"We must also pay full homage to the
splendid part our allies are taking in
the increasing efforts along the Somme ,
and on all other fronts The Russian !
effort now has succeeded isi organizing
and putting forward larger and larger .
forces of men. drawn from their appar- !
cntly inexhaustible sources ot human
material, and at the same time fully \
arming those masses. The splendid re-, j
suits of their efforts are shown in what ;
they have accomplished in Galieia and
along the entire eastern front.
l,\l DS ACCOM PMSHMIC.XTS
OK ITAMAX SOI.niF.ll*
"It has fallen to Kngiand to show
the vast extent of her resources, both
in men and material, and the extent
of iter efforts is shown in what has
been accomplished on the Somme front.'
The Italians have had a much harder
task and a more limited space of ac
tion. and you know how admirably they
have fulfilled their part of this com-j
moji action. As for the reorganized
Serbian army, it is only just begin
ning to take its full part in the war."
General Joffre now turned his at
tention to tho German side of the cam
paign. taking up the evidences of 1
weakness which have shown in the !
quality of their attacks and in the |
number of reserves they are able to I
move to various fronts.
"If. 011 the other side, we consider the |
condition of our enemy." General j
Joffre continued, "we know for certain I
that, although they are lighting as des- |
perately as ever, they are drawing on!
their last reserves. Their game has j
been, up until now. to transfer their]
reserves from one point to another and
from one front to another, but with the
united action of the allies on all fronts
our enemy finds such a course impos
sible now, and will find It Increasingly
so in the future. It is not for me to
say how long the struggle Is going
to last, but that really matters little.
"^*e know the crash is coming and
?ou .eel as_woll as we do that we al
oad.v have reached and passed the tuni
ng point. The five months' resistance
f our troops at Verdun has shattered
he hopes of the Germans and lias
timed .the scale. Put still, do not
magpie that there is a complete weak
n.'ng of the German effort on the west
rn front. We know thej-e are still op
osed to all our armies 011 the west
??n front two-thirds of the best flght
?g forces that Germany can put In
he field, that Is, 122 divisions of their
?est troops against the French and
(Continued on Second Page.;
THE WATKH ROIJTK TO ItAT.TIMOUK
Most delightful wnt?r trip In Aoirrlca. $2.50
one way; K50 rouhd trip. YORK RIVER
LINE new steamers. Phone Madison 272.
TWELVE TYPHOID
CASES REPORTED
Urgent Advice Given by Health
Department for Caution in
Food and Drink.
BIG DEMAND FOR VACCINE
Special Examination to Be Made
of City's Water Supply?In
oculation Recommended.
Health Offices
Open To-Day
The. ' Uy Health Department nn
iioimecN flint nil perhMtifc ilcNlrlng
nil tj< y pliuiil tneeine enu secure It to
iltiy between the hour* of Ml A. M.
ami 12, nml also between I find
I'. >1.
An the elevntur In the < Itj llnll
tlne.H mil run on Sunday, Slate
Health t'oininNwIoner Ennlon (J.
llllanm ha* offered the ijunrterx of
the State olltiril.iif Health, I lit) ('un
file State nmiril of Health, I I II) fnp
partmeiit as a distributing stntlon
for tliene linur* to-ilny.
Health O filer r Levy htrnnclj' urge*
every pernon to proteet hlniMelf 1
nKiilliNt typhoid hy cettlnc vneel
nti toil.
Willi twelve new cases of typhoid
fever reported to the City Health De- j
partment yesterday. Chief Health Of
ficer I.evy, for the first time since the
outbreak of the disease in Richmond,
expressed fear that the situation might
become grave, and cave urgent advice
for individual caution in the matter of
food and drink, pending further in
vestigation by the department.
Dr. Aubrey 11. Straus, of the Medical
'""oliege of Virginia, and former bac
teriologist of the City Health Depart
ment. was called in to assist Dr. Graves, j
the department bacteriologist, in tak
ing blood cultures and analyzing the
water supply. The suggestion was
given also to Director Baldwin, of the
Settling Basin, that the amount of
chlorine used in purifying the city
water be increased.
Two of the cases reported yesterday
are on Church Hill, one at Stuart ?'ir
cle Hospital, another at Grace Hos
pital. two on I-ady Mile Road, one in
the :.100 block West Cary Street, one
on Harrison Street, another in the 1100
block Boyd Street, one in the same
block or\ Moore Street and one in the
1>00 block Catherine Street.
HEALTH IIKP A HTM EXT
TO H A YE M'XIJAY HOURS
During the day, ?.50 more boxes of
typhoid vaccine were received by the
Health Department, and, in view of
the insistent demand for it, a sales
clerk has l>e?-n installed to supply p"hy
sicians and others who wish to obtain
it at cost. Those who cannot pay for
the vaccine will be vaccinated by the
department free of charge.
Supplies of vaccine can be obtained
from the offices of the State Board of
Health, 1110 Capitol Street, to-day be
tween the hours of 10 A. M. and 12
noon, and 1 to 5 r. M.
Dr. Levy urges that all city water
be boiled before drinking, and that
everybody lie inoculated with anti
typhoid vaccine. Ho. advises that as
little raw food as possible be used.
Seeing to it. lie said, that the cook
who handles most of the food is of
cleanly personal habits is most import
ant.
Seven deaths from typhoid fever oc
curred during the month of July, as
compared with five in the correspond
ing month last year, according to mor
tality statistics issued by the board
yesterday. Three of those who died
were white and four colored.
LEV V MAKES l-'HAXK
STATE)!EXT AS TO COXDITIOXS
In order that the public may be
frankly informed of the situation, and
advised as to the proper precautions to
l?e taken, <'hiet' Health Officer Levy
last night dictated the following state
ment:
"Since July IS there has lieen a decid
ed increase in the number of cases of;
typhoid fever in Richmond The State
Health Department has issued a state
ment to the effect that tins is going to
be a "typhoid year,' contrary to what
appeared likely earlier in the season.
Typhoid fever i. unusually prevalent
all around, an<l Richmond, in spite of
her low record for many years past,
is apparently not escaping.
"So far as it has been possible to
determine up to now. there is no gen
eral cause for the cases of typhoid
fever now in Richmond. Some of j
them were ill and brought here for j
(Continued on Second Page.)
Richmond's
i
Dollar Day \
j
I
Wednesday,
August 9th
Merchants will an
nounce their unusual
dollar values in The
Times-Dispatch on the
morning of the sale.
HUGHES ATTACK
Tells Senate That Republican
Strictures on Administration
Are Treasonable.
RESPONSIBLE FOR MEXICO
Not Until Party Assault on Wil
son Did Outlaws Shoot
His Soldiers.
\\ A. HIX<,T< ix, AuRiist 5.?.Senator I
; '?/ the '^mocratlc' whip, spoke in!
the Senate to-day i? reply to the at-:
ta< k upon the administration made In
hales E. Hughes in his speech nc- j
roptini? the Republican presidential
nomination.
Republican strictures upon the ad
ministration's Mexican policy Senator
Lewis denounced as '?treasonable." lie
charged that the clause of the Repub
lican platform repudiating interference
in the internal affairs of Mexico was
responsible for the massacre of troops
at Carrlzal.
"Not until tlie captains of the Repuh
i l?J*rty shot at the President of the
< nlted States did the Mexican outlaws
Shoot :,t the soldiers of the American
?resident." he said. The platform dec
laration Senator Lewis characterized as
a "summons to Carranza and Villa to j
revenue the entrance of American sol-|
<llers into Mexico and the interference;
of America in her internal affairs."
1*131*1 HI,K AN COWKXTIOX
SI.A YS CAIIHI7.A!, SOI.DIKItS !
"It was the Republican convention." !
said Mr. Lewis, "which slew the sol
diers at Carrlzal." and he assailed i
efforts of the Republican leaders to !
make Mexico the Issue "without re- '
gard to facts, equity or Justice."
... Uevolt against the government at
Y\ ash in gt on as to Mexico?that is. the
issue. he declared. "Denounce tho
President as to Mexico?for that is the
Issue. Make contemptible your own
country before the world whenever you
can -for that is the Issue. Humiliate
your own fellow-man by holding his
country and his President up before the
world as unworthy the support of his
countrymen or the respect of for
eigners.
At last the army is summoned. The
mercenary; tho concessionaire, who
pollutes the government in power to
wrest the rights from the defenseless
and the weak; the European bond
holder. demanding of the sovereign
nlted States that she shall send her
sons to die. that their blood mav give
value to those whose creation was born
bin !y' and Wh0RC ?*'?*??H-e is'
being maintained by fraud; the mining
buccaneers of tho mountains, the land
Pirates of the plains, pillagers of the
peons, oppressors of liberty, despollcrs
of homes, murderers of justice?come
all of you; at last there is found for
>ou a house |n which you are wor
shiped as gorls. and at whose altars!
the innocents are to t,e sacrificed for
>ou to make an election liolldav. This
procession of blood-tarnlshed votaries :
headed now by the newly appointed
chief of this political hierarchy, the
nominee of a Republican convention
for President of the Inited States
Charles Evans Hughes."
Senator Fall, Republican, said he
would like to spend every cent of the
Republican campaign fund to send tho
Illinois Senators address over* tho
cou n t ry. *
SENATOR FA I.I, CAI.I.S IT
n E M AI* K A11L E 11A It A X fi r E
"I have just listened to the most re
markable harangue, the like of which
I never heard on the stump, and which
I never expected to hear in the halls
of Congress. To reply to it would b?
to dignify it." he said "The Senator
belongs to that recent school of states- i
men. developed during the last three
or four years, who are teaching the
doctrine that patriotism means servil
ity and subserviency to a party leader."
The issue of the coming campaign. !
senator Fall said, would be the duty!
of a government to its citizens.
Thousands of American fugitives
from Mexico with wives and children
outraged or killed will confront the
Democratic party with their failure to
protect their own people." said he. '
You will later change your opinion
that there is no issue involved in this !
Mexican question."
EXPOSITION IN JANUARY
I'nn-American Countries \\ ||| | nl(r
<?rent Aeronautic Ex
hibition.
fSpecial to The Tim
XEW YORK. August The first
Pan-American aeronautic exposition
lo,' t'r'" Xew Vo,k '? Unwary.
?? lans are being prepared bv
?ho Aero Club of America, the Ameri
can Society of Aeronaut,<? Engineers !
and the Pan-American Aeronautic Fed-!
eration.
Delegations from Pan-American conn- !
tries and aviation squads of the differ
ent State militia will be present. A
number of wealthy sportsmen, in. lud- ?
ing Vincent Astor. Harry Payne Whit
ney, r-. T. Davison, Howard S. Horden
and W. Earle Dodge, will be in Xew
York at the time with their own air-!
craft.
AVIATOR ON PAROLE
Gives 111 h Word to Ilollnml to Take
Xo Further Part In
War.
{Special to The Times-Dispatch 1 !
NEW YORK, August 6.?J. Erroll
Boyd, a Canadian aviator who was 1
forced to land In Holland after his!
aeroplane had been damaged by the !
Germans, arrived here to-day on tho !
steamer Xoordam on parole. Ho has I
given his word to the Holland govern
ment that he would not take any fur
ther part In the war if they would let
him return to Canada.
Deutschland's Trip
to Capes Is Bluff?
German Merchant Submarine
Nou) Said lo Be Hiding in
Chesapeake Bay.
N1 tRI't il<K, V.V, Autrust 5.? Per
sistent reports, kunwjn to have been
given some credence ax ill" British vice
consulate oillccs. iirn being circulated
here to the effect that the undersea
m-'i.'hanltnan Deutschland's trip to the
capes on last Wednesday night was
merely a bluff, and that she later re
turned to Chesapeake Hay. It is de
flated that she is now In hiding, sub
merged in some deep hole. These re
ports are said to he responsible for the
fact that the Hritish cruisers are. still |
patrolling the bay entrance. The bit;
majority of water-front men disereilit
the report. The commander of the
yacht I.*ouiH Keuerstein, on which an
Associat ed I'ress correspondent wit
! nessed the submarine's getaway, de- i
, clared the reports idle talk.
Tl (i THOMAS I'. TIMMINS
AI'IM.IKS KOI1 ( IIAMd: OF XAMK
BAI.TIMOKK. Ml>? August 5.?The
tug Thomas K. Timmins. which llg
ured so extensively in the arrival and
departure of tiie submarine Deutsch- j
land, is to have its name changed to
the Hansa. An application for the
change has been filed with the United
States shipping authorities. Three or,
four days will be ncccssary before the
j change takes effect.
The Hansa is scheduled to figure In
further submarine enterprises. Cap
tain Hinsch. port manager for the
Deutsche Ocean Kheiderci, operators of
the Deutschland, has indicated that the
Dcutschland trip Is but the prelude to
a regular service between Baltimore
and German ports.
The west berth at the pier where
the Deutschland was berthed is to be
deepened to a minimum low-water
depth of twenty-five feet, and ware- ;
house alterations arc to be made.
At this pier to-day a farm wagon ]
unloaded a quantity of provision, which ,
were taken aboard the Ttnimins. f>ne j
of the crew said the tug was "Just
going after some barges."
It was recalled that Captain "Zach" j
Culllson, of the Tlmmins. made a sinil- I
lar reply to a query when the tug was j
waiting off the capes for the Deutsch- j
land.
WOULD REDUCE EXEMPTIONS
Finance Committee Will llceoninienil to
Semite Amendment to lnereu.se
Income Tax.
WASHINGTON, August 5.?Reduction
of the income tax exemption from $3,00ft
to 51',000 for single persons anil from j
$?1,000 to $3,000 for persons with fam- j
ilies was ordered recommended to the i
Senate to-night by Democratic nictn- j
bcrs of the Finance Committee who are
revising the House revenue bill.
The change is proposed in an amend
ment which would put the additional |
$1,000 tax in a separate classification
and impose on it a normal tax of 1
per cent instead of per cent, assessed
against incomes over $3,000, for single
persons ami $4,000 for married persons.
The exemption amendment, after an
all-day discussion, prevailed by a ma
jority of only one vote. Some of the
Democratic Senators said that the de
cision was a tentative one, and might
be overturned when the. amendment
was submitted to the full membership
of the committee next week.
The roll call on the amendment was
not disclosed. Those who favored it
emphasized the grave necessity for ad
ditional revenue, and had estimates be
fore them .-snowing that the proposed
exemption i eductions would add about
$15,000,000 to the government's treas- j
ury. It probably would increase sev- j
era I-fold ;ho total number of taxables.
? - ?
MAKE GOOD THEIR ESCAPE
Detroit Automobile lliuiilltK Succeed In
Getting Away With rny-ltoll
Hoot}'.
DICTROIT. MICH . August b.?Thirty
six hours after the daylight holdup of
the motor pay car of the Burroughs
Adding Machine Company by live auto
mobile bandits. Detroit police were still
in ignorance to-night concerning the
identity of the highwaymen. It was
admitted that, for the present, they
apparently have made good their escape
with the booty, placed at $3:1.000 to
$34,000. Dozens of clues have been
traced down, and six men arrested,
only to be released when they estab
lished alibis.
All hope for the ultimate capture""of
the five robbers has not been aban
doned, but the activities of Detroit
police have narrowed down to a rou
tine of telegraphic appeals to other
cities and local scouring for new leads
and clues. One circumstance that
aided the holdup men in making good
their 'escape, the police believe, was
that they made use of a very popular
small touring car.
GIVE FREE LEGAL AID
l.nnjTr* to Defend families of ??uarits
men Against I.oms of Their
11 oiuc.s.
NKW YORK, August 5 A commit
tee of prominent lawyers in this city
has been organized to provide legal aid
for the families of members of the
National Guard who are now in service
on the Mexican border. The commit
tee was formed by the army and navy
supply committee of the American De
fense Society.
The families of many of the guards
men are in distress because of con
tracts entered into by soldiers before
their departure for the border. They
are threatened with dispossession from
their homes and the loss of furniture
and life Insurance.
I.nnt Mountain Excursion Via
Norfolk anil Western Itullwny.
will l<<ava 13yrd Ht. Station, Tuesday. Aug. 1">,
promptly at 10:30 A. M. Very bent faulp
m*nt. Go with the crowd, ritono Madison
4S7 for further particulars.
BRITISH FORCES
CAPTURE SECOND
LINE OF DEFENSE
Haig's Men Go Forward on
Front of 2,000 Yards
North of Pozieres.
GERMAN COUNTERATTACKS
RESULT IN HEAVY LOSSES
Bitter Fighting Continues Near
Verdun, on Right Bank
of Meuse.
KKKNCII LINKS ARE UNBROKEN
Crown Prince llurls Masses of Men
Against Km* my in Thiau
iiiimt Work.
I.< >XI)' August 5?In .i successful
effort t<> straighten out their lino be
tween Pozieres and Thiepval. north of
the Somme. Uritish forces have cap
tureil rlio main German second-line sys
tem of defenses on a front of 2,000
yards north of Pozieres. The attack,
which was made by Australians and
troops of the new Kitchener army, re
stilted also |n (lie taking of several
hundred prisoners. German counter- ?
attacks against the newly won posi
tions were repulsed with heavy losses,
it is asserted.
Further than stating that a new bat- ^
tic was developing near Pozieres, Ber
lin makes no mention of the latest
Uritish advance. Uritish attacks, how
ever, against the sectors from north of
Ovillers to Foureaux wood were re
pulsed by the Oernmns. On the French
front in the Somme region, Paris says
there has been only little activity,
while Berlin claims the repulse of a
French advance south of Maurepas.
On the right bank of the Meuse, In
the Verdun region, the fighting be
tween the French and Germans con
tinues to be bitter. Paris says the
forces of the r.erman Crown Prince
made unsuccessful efforts to drive the
French from the Thiaumont work, re
eontlv captured. The Germans also
bombarded heavily the sector of Thlau
m mt and Fleur.v.
rn;iiTi.\<; is iiittkh
AT Til IAUJIOXT WORK
Berlin mentions bitter fighting at
Thiaumont work, and reports the cap
ture of 4<;s prisoners during German
counterattacks in the Fleury sector.
On the Russian front the most in
tense lighting is reported as taking
place south of lirody, in Galieia. The
Russians crossed the Soreth River, cap
tuied positions in the region of
Peniakl-Tchlstopady and repulsed Aus- ?
tro-German counterattacks against
them. Berlin says Russian detach
ments which crossed the Sereth near
Patyseye were forced to retreat before
Austro-German counterattacks. North
west of Xalosze, in the same district,
Russian attacks were repulsed. Petro
grad admits the retirement of several
detachments from mountain passes in
the Garpathians southwest of K.uty, In
the face of heavier Austrian forces.
The Uritish positions at Komani,
twenty-two miles east of the Suez
? 'anal, are being attacked by a Turkish
force, estimated at 14.000 men, on a
front of seven to eight miles. The at
tack, London asserts, has made no im
pression on the Uritish positions, while
??ii the southern ilank the British have
taken between 400 and 50ft prisoners.
Rome reports slight progress on the
Teutonic front against the Austrians.
An Italian attack east of Monfalcone,
on the Carso plateau, resulted in the
capture of some prisoners.
1IIUTISII positions
ATTACK Kll IIY TURKS
LOX August 5.?British posi
tions near Roinani, east of Port Said,
are being attacked by 14,000 Turks,
according to an olllcial statement is
sued by tho oflice to-day. The Turks
are attacking along a front of seven
to eitrht miles, the statement says, and
have so far been repulsed. The British
olllcial announcement says:
'The following report, timed 11:10
I'. M. on the 4th of August, has been
received from the general officer com
manditm-!n-< hii f in Kgypt;
" "Since midnight of August 3-4,
Turks whose strength is estimated at
14,ft<tft have been attacking our posi
tion near Roman!, east of Port Said,
on a front of seven to eight miles.
"'The position at dusk on the 4th
of August was that th^lr attacks had
made no impression on our fortified
position, while on the southern flapk
the fighting also was goini; in our
favor, and between 400 and 500 pris
oners had been captured there.
???Ship;: of the royal navy rendered
valuable service from the Bay or Tina.
!? ight ing still was in progress
when this import was dispatched. The
temperature during the day reached
100 degrees in the shade.'"
An official statement issued by the
Turkish War < itlice on Friday stated
that Turkish airmen had attacked with
machine guns British positions about
twenty-live miles east of tho Suez
Canal.
Komani is a village oear the coast
ot the Mediterranean, and about twen
tv-two miles to the east of tho Suez
< anal, ir is about ten miles northwest
ot Katia. where several engagements
recently have been fought between tli?
British and the Turks.
AM. ?; !?: It ??! A v ATTACKS
iu:pi i.sicn i?r Fiti:\ch
I A K IS, Atigust 5.?All Gorman at
tacks on the French positions last night
were repulsed, says the French official
statement Issued this afternoon, the
Germans sustaining heavy losses.
A bombardment of tho most violent
character took place over the entlr*
sector of Thiaumont and Fleury. Th? ?
battle lasted from 9 o'clock last nifcht'
until this morning, the Germans making -V
