ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAH
22 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, SUNDAY MORNING, AUG UST 6, 191G
22 PAGES
VOL. XXVII, NO. 79
nn
FiE
IE F
GER1MS
II SUCCESSFUL EFFORT 10
II Dill
CAPTURE GERMAN DEFENSES
(By Republican Associated Press Leased Wire)
In a successful effor-t to straighten out their line between Pozieres and
Thiepval, north of the Somme, British forces have captured the main Ger
man second line syjtem of defenses on a front of 2,000 yards, north of
Pozieics. Tho attack, which was mado by Australians and troops of the
new Kitchener army, resulted also in the taking of several hundred prison
ers. German counter attacks against the newly won positions were repulsed
with heavy losses, London asserts.
Further than stating that a new battle was developing near Pozieres,
Berlin makes no mention of the latest British advance. British attacks.
however, against tho sectors from north of Ovillers, to Foureaux wood,
were repulsed by the Germans. On the French front in the Somme region,
Pans says there has been only artillery activity, while Berlin claims the re
pulse of a French advance south of Maurepas.
On the right bank of the Mouse in the Verdun region, the fighting be
tween tho French and ihe Germans continues to be bitter. Paris says the
forces of the German crown prince made unsuccessful efforts to drive tho
Frervrh from the Thiaumont work, recen'Jy captured. The Cermans also
bombarded heavily the soctor of Thiaumont and Fleury.
Berlin mentions hitter fighting at Thiaumont work and reports the cap
ture of 4&8 prisoners during the German counter attacks in the Fleury sector.
On tho Russian front, the most intense fighting is reported as taking
place south of Brody, in Galicia. The Russians crossed the Sereth river,
captured positions in the region of Peniaki-Tchiftopacly and repulsed an
Austro-German counter attack against them. Berlin says Russian detach
ments which crossed the Sereth near Patvrcye were forced to retreat before
Austro-Germsn counter attacks. Northwest of Zalosze, in the same district,
Russian attacks were reoulsed. Prtrograd admits the retirement of sev
eral detachments from mountain passes in the Carpathians southwest of
Kutv. in the face of heavier Austrian forces.
The British positions nt Roumania, twenty-two miles east of the Suez
canal, are being attacked by Turkish forces, estimated at 14,009 men, on a
front of seven or eiqht miles. The attack, London asserts, has made no
impression on the British positions, while on the southern flank, the British
have taken between 400 and 500 prisoners.
Rome reports slight progress on the Trentino front against the Au3
trians. An Italian attack east of Monfalcone, on tho Carsa plateau, re
sulted in the capture of some prisoner..
BRITISH FOLLOW UP SUCCESSES
BY PUSHING FORVVAFED THElt
USE NORTH OF POZIERES
Republican A. P. Leased Wirt
L'NDoN. Aiik. O.-The British i f
fii i ll com mimical ion issued at ten
o -. Im k last night, reads:
' Including tin; rapture of the G-r-man
treie he-; reported this morning,
, during the last two days, pushed
forward our line north and west of
Poz.eres, some toy to icio yards, over
a front of about 3,"0 yards.
"Troops from Australia. Kent, Pur
rev ami Sussex participated ia this
-peralion and consolidated the posi
tion won. despite the shell file, which
was especially heavy
near the Po
ze-r -i-Lapaiime road.
"our artillery shelled I .a Conree-
letfe and Miraumont, causing latgei
explosions in both plo-cs. Ten gun
emplaci ments and three ammunition
r.tores were destroyed. The enemy at- '
tempied to seize a creater near Sou-j
cl.e- hut was repolf-J with bomb-?. i
'The:i. was wirn- artillery activity)
between lloorc- and St. F.loi, where
the enemy exploded a small mine, but i
no movement followed." I
British positions near Ramonl, east
of Ion Said, are beini; attacked by
1 1 ( ii Turks. The Turks are attack-
n. i; alone, a front of ri-ven to eight
mil---- Mtid have :;o far been repulsed. 1
The Turki: h aitack on the Hrili.di
l-osition'? in Kifypt lo the- east of the
Suez i anal, comes as no surprise to
those who are in close touch with the
operations in that part of the world.
Hen. Sir Archibald Murray, who
iommjii'1 the British army there, has
lung; realized that Ihe Turfs, with the
assistance of the Austrians and Her
mans, mi'-jht make a serious attempt
on the canal, even at the hottest por-
TO ftSK GQNEHESS TO TAKE fiCTION
SAFEGIIRIIG AGIST SPIES
(Reoublican A. P. Leased Wire those were not confined to the water,
WASHINGTON, Aug. 5. Activities I hut extended to the isthmus proper!
of persons suspected of being spies While these operations may have
employed by foreign governments to j been perfectly innocent in intent, and
aeipnre information regarding the na-only such soundings were made' and
tore and e xtent of the defenses of the bearings taken as might he incident
1'anama canal, have made the admin- to the pursuit of pearl fisheries, the
istratlon decide to re-ipiest congress tojcannl zone authorities have regarded
Kupplement the existing laws against
the improper acquisition of knowledge
of military and naval plans of forti
fieri t ions.
liepresent.'ttives of the department
of Justice and the war and navy tle
partments have been In conference on
the subject, and it is expected that
they will agree upon some very dras
tic legislation to lie submitted to con
gress. It is possible that the scope
of the conference may be extended
beyond the original ideas of a mere
protection of the secrets of American
coast defenses to cover generally such
attempts as have been common since
Ihe beginning of the present war, to
destroy powder and munition plants,
upon which the 1'nited States irovern
ment must rely in time (jf trouble.
Several of the military powers of
the world are believed to have under
taken to obtain information as to the
character of the defenses of the
Panama canal. The latest incident lo
incite suspicion is the operation of a
b'tle .laoanese power vessel, ostensi
bly a fishing launch, which sought
t i obtain a permit for pearl fishing in
the waters of l amma lay and vicin
ity. Ti e canal authorities have been
warned that this craft appeared to
have been making liurvcya and thai
tion of the year.
At Romani, where, fighting is in
progress, the Turks must bring up
eveiy drop or water from Augnratma, i ,.
seme ten miles away.
It is understood that the Turks
have with them some I.iiiiU Auslro
German infantry, as well as a large
t.u , 1 ' . . i
Their ( hon e of the coast route ia-
i stead of the raravan road from Katia
I to Kanta. which they took the last
I time, brings their flank under the fire
of warships in the Bay of Tina,
i The French statement
I PARIS, Aug. 5. -The official com
munication, issued by the war office
toniKht, reads:
"On the right bank of the Mense.
I the enemy made no attempt in the
sector of thiaumont. YVe have or
j sani.ed the positions coinpici ed immediate!-
west of tiie road from
Thiaumont to Kleury and In the vil
lage, the entire southern part of which
we hold.
After a violent bombardment
which lasted- the entire day, the Ger
mans launched twe powerful attacks
in the Vaux-I.e chapitre wood, 'me
of these attacks, broken by our fire,
was not aide to reach our line;. The
enemy, who in the course of the sec
ond attack had succeeded in penetrating-
some elementa -f our trenches,
was immediately driven out by
lounter attack:'. Our front remained
i intact.
"The. lifc.ial cannonade occurred on
the rest of the front."
Heluian communication:
; "Our batteries of all Calibres ruc-
(Continued on I'aKe Kive)
me matter ns or sulficient importance
to warrant investigation and renort to
Washington. Meanwhile licetnes have
been withheld until some general lino
or policy can be formulated to govern
all such cases.
Hughes Starts
Trip From
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, Aug. 5. "I am enter
ing upon the trip with the greatest1
zest," was the assertion made tonight i wiu 'llMrt.H two meetings in the
by Charles E. Hughes, republican can-1 evening. San Diego, Cul., was fidded
didate for president, just before he ' to the itinerary today. It was an
started upon the campaign journey, nounccd he would speak (here on the
which will take him across the con- afternoon of Monday. August 21, and
tinent. "It will be most gratifying to' at Los Angeles in the evening. Mr.
have this opportunity of meeting the Hughes inspoi ted the new head
People, and I am anticipating a very , quarters of the republican national
interesting series of meetings," he I committee In Fifth avenue this after
added, noon. When shown the reporters'
The nominee, accompanied by Mr3. 'room he remarked: "The seat of gov-
Ilughea, nfwspaper men, secretaries
Starts
l ames
7
7
NO
TRACE OF
PAY-CAR
BANDITS
I DETROIT. .Mich.. August 5. I
j Tonight, ':', hinra after the day- I
j liyht holdup 'if t h- motor p:iy- I
car of Hit Burroughs Adding Ma- I
I (him- company by live- automobile I
I bandits, Detroit police were as j
I i;hh h in iir.ioraiHe concerning the
identity of the highwaymen or I
their possible whereahuuls as
I though ihev never had existed. !
It was admitted that for the pre.?- I
e-nt the men apparently have
I made goi d their escape with their
boov, placed by company tifflcials !
I nt frrm fr'.eOu to $ '4,oiio.
II GREAT
Pepublican A. P. Leased Wirel
H E A I J I ' A KT K US OK TDK GEN
EliAL STAFF IN FRANCE, August t
General Joseph Jotire, generallissimo
of the r rench army, and Hie guiduij
spirit of the united army of Hie en
tente !:l!ies, today received the Associ
aled Press correspondent here and for
upward of an hour talked freely and
fully on many interesting current
phases of the war. lie expressed the
view that the turning point of Uie con
thcl now had been successfully reached
and passed and with the united action
of the allies on many lronts they were
pressing forward to the certain col
lapse of the German efforts and to an
' assured victory.
It was an exceptional opportunity to
'see and talk with the military coin-
i niander who not only is head of the
French army, hut also is in supreme
I authority over the French, p.ritish and
Belgian forces on the western front
and the French, British and Serbian
; armies of half a million men around
' Sa.li.ni k i, as well as being senior com
mander in the united action hy which
allies are conduction simultaneous
e-ampains in the Kuarian, Itahai
French and Uail;:m theaters as part of
I one systematic whole. It is tins recent
f co-ordination of the commands on the
many fronts Ittv
. .
that has permuted Gen
give full scone to his mil
. lUery talent which probably has been
exercised over more men of the allied
nauong man ever nas laueu 10 one
military commander.
General .ioffre wajs in his private of
fice at head'iuarters when the party of
American correspondent! arrived, the
visit having been arranged tor the an
niversary of the opening of warfare. It
Kan ten o'clock in the morning but the
general had already begun his work at
7:3i) ami had gone tniuugh reports of
the fighting last niiini. and eaerly to
day, on the Somme front and at Ver
dun and also along the Italian and
Russian fronts. General Pellee, his
chief of staff, and a number of staff
officers were about, but except for this
there was little outward evidence of
warfare and none of the confusion and
roar of battle heard along the fighting.
Although in touch with the entire range
of the front, calm is required lo carry
on the supreme responsibility residing
here at staff headquarters.
General .Ioffre presented a striking
picture as he stood there among the
utaff officers. His square built and
sturdy figure wore a dark blue service
uniform with little gold braid and dec
orations. His face has the cheerful
glow of good health and perfect eon
tlition but it 8 striking feature was the
indomitable firmness and calmness
shown in that square jaw and open
countenance. He looked, in one report,
like General Grant is said to have
looked on the field of battle. Most
French officers are scrupulously well
tailored and groomed, and while Gen
eral Joffre was not lacking in this yet
there was something suggesting Gen
eral Giant's disregard for the light con
ventionalities of uniform and surface
appearani:es. His heavy gray mus
tache and bristling hair gave some
suggestion also of General Phil Sheri
dan, the great cavalry lejader.
"1 want to express my satisfaction in
meeting you, gentlemen, and through
you to express our feelings toward the
Ameriean people," said General Joffre,
speaking in an easy conversational
tone. "A feeling of deep friendship has
always existed between Franco and
America, and it is particularly oppor
tune now, after France has been fight
ing for two years for the ideal so dear
to both countries, that this friendship
should he renewed and streiigtheni-d."
Turning his attention to the actual
(Continued on Page Kive.)
on Campaign
Ocean to Ocean
and clerks, left at 9:3a o'clock for
Niagara Falls, where they will spend
Sunday. Mr. Hughes will leave Mon-
fll.u rrw.nlnv f...' Il.a,-,il Ulllt'u lit.
eminent, eh?"
STRI
KE TIES
T T
N
Revolution in Behalf
UP GOTHA
7
Republican A. P. Leased
Wire
Ni:V Vi iRK, Aug.
-Surface car
trafl'j ceased ill the boroughs of
Manhattan, the Kronx and Richmond
at 8 o'll.ick tonight. At that hour th
city war in the urlp of the- most set
ions transit blockade in its history,
lirooklyn was the only borough i
the- greater citv not affected by the
strike of inotormen and conductor
Only a fraction of the normal num
ber of cars was tn operation in the
borouLli of Queens.
The menace of a general transpor
tation strike w is growing hourly
more threatening tonight. "W. It.
! itzgei aid, the general oiganizer, de
clared that every employe of the ln
tci borouli vvouhl he a memijer of the
union next week.
A new ' lement of danger so far as
th travvlim; public is on-'cnici! was
iujei-ted into the situation tonight
when William D. Mahoii. president of
the Amalgamated Association of
Stieet mid Klecwic Rail.vay I'mployes
I'eclaied that a delegation of the
Protlii rlioo'l of Iocotiioiiw Kngineers,
reoreseutir.of tlie men working on the
railroads running into tho city had
called open him and nsktd for a con-tereii'-c.
They wei c invited to com'er
tomoriow afternoon with union offi
cials. .Malion and his associates were
much elated over the nav develop
ment. At 8 o'clock tonight orders had be.-n
i-sned by ever-,- street l ailroid in
Manhattan and the Pn-nx and on
Staten Island (Richmond) to discon
tinue service for the nitht. An hour
later not a surface car wheel was
moving in the three ooronyhs.
I'm- nfter another, the New York
llailwi.ys romi nnv. tlie Second ave
nue, rind the Third avenue Railroad
comi arieu. the 1'nion Hallway com
rnny whi- h operates in the Pronx and
the Hicl-.mond Light and P.ailroud
cnm'niiv notified police heailqu.ai ter
that thev liad suspended service. The
nmnVier or pnspenteeH ri--r:ed 'Ini!-
on tlcse lines is estimated at ?.""
fill). "JT-
Within nn hour after the halting -f
traffic, steady sdreams of iitnev ve
hicles were flowing throuch Proad,
w-ay. Fifth avenue .mil other streets
running north and south, as well as
thr-niph tho cross town thoroughfare.-.
Por cross town rides the regi lation
(li:iri'i was !i cents, while longer trips
up town and down town c,,si from r
to cents. Fifth, avenue hiihses and
iehtseeiiig cat's w ere oreevded to ca -pr-'-ity.
Thrones of rv.tr holiday excursion
ist waited vainlv for surface cars
before they ilecended into subway
stations or climbed to the elevated
nilroad platforms. This added traffic
I'Verhe o! r-rvt '"nderground caused ser
ious coneestion.
'n n iuv of the lar'-e auto trucks
fans were collected .v striking con-fhi'-tor.
soree i f whom wore the'--rriil-.vav
uniforms. Others wer'- in
ch r"f of tMxk-ahs and hacks. They
evniajTi"d ih"v had pooled their sav
Inv: and had bought second band
conveyances.
At f f-'elocV revern! rutomohib;
'-U-kn loaded with revolver ammuni
tion left police bepd'ioarters. Hoxes
i.f enrtride ve--e off p.t evei-v st i
tlonhonse in Manhattan and the
Prnnx. Fad patrolman will tie pro
vided wiiti 2n rounds
Th most ser'nns demonsirHion of
the dav occurred tonicht when police
refjervee- charred a c-ovd of "t:l;'
semnrithiTors nid tn Pace numbered
(Continued on Page Kive)
Pittman Claims
Hughes' Opinion
Changes Overnight
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Aug. 5. Senator
Pittma.u asserted in tlie senate today
that the republican nominee had re
versed his opinio.i overnight on the
federal sufliage amendmi nt and
called upon republican leaders to say
what Mr. Hughes' course would he
with re ;ard to the amendment if he
should be elected.
"Mr. Hughes on July 31 in his
speech of acceptance declared against
woman suffrage by federal amend
ment," sai 1 Senator Pittman. "Ho
endorsed the suffrage plank in the re
publican platform which specifically
leave's to each state the right to settle
the question for itself.
"On tne day following Mr. Hughes
made another declaration directly op
posed to his former announcement.
In a telegram to Senator Sutherland
on Aimust 1, Mr. Hughes said:
" 'My view is that the propose-'
amendment should he submitted and
ratified and the subject removed from
jolitical discussions.'
"Is it possible that Senator Porah,
who prepared the plank or (Senator
Lode" who submitted it to the con
vent ion, may have discussed this with
Mr. Hughes since- the conflicting dec
larations -were made and ore pre
pared to state what view will p-eiyern
him if he is elected? I submit that
the American people are entitled to a
X definite and final statement."
BROOM TRE
ONLY O0R0UCR
fiOT AFFECTED
M SURFACI
LEWIS ATTACKS, FALL
DEFENDS MR. HUGHES
Republican A. P. Leased Wire i
WASHINGTON. Aug. 5. Mexico is
a political issue in tlie national cam
paign was discussed in the senate to
day. Senator Lewis of Illinois as
sailing the republican party and Mr.
Hughes, its presidential candidate for
attacking the administration "without
regard to fact", equity or j-isti e" ami
Senator Fall of New Me,cu replying.
Senator Lewis bitterly denounced
the republican leaders for their as
saults upon Presidtni 'Wilson's Mex
ican police, characterizing them as
"treasonable." I: r.ponsibility for the
death of American soldiers at Gar
riza.l he placed al the door of the re
publican partv ohnr;.'e that "not till
the captains of !hc republican party
shot at tiie president of the United
States did tiie Mexican outlaws sho.it
nt the soldiers of the American presi
dent." He referred to opponents of
tie government's course In Mexico a.s
"blood tarnished votari' s, headed now
bv th'- riewlv appointed chief of this
EXEMPTION UF
THEINCGI,
I Republican A. P. Leased Wirel
WASHINGTON' Am' K Redncinirl
I! BE REDUCED
of tlie income tax exemption from I Uamiclo Aguilar, Mexican toreign min
$3000 to $-00(1 for sinKle persons and ! inster. said tonight that he had not
from 4i0D to J3000 for those with I heen advised of the names of the
families was recommended bv the sen- j American commissioners who are to
ate tonight by democratic members of ' mcet wuh Mexican commissioners to
the finance committee who are revis- discuss a settlement of the dnferences
ing the house revenue bill. The between the two countries, nor of the
change is proposed in an amendment ' VfJ.ce of meeting. He said that the
nhi,.h -,,IH inn tho xiriitinnui tuiiiii governor general of Canada had sent
taxes in a separate classification and
impose on it a normal tajt of one per
cent instead of the two per cent as
sessed against incomes over $3000 for
single persons and over J400 for mar
ried persons.
The amendment after an all day dis
cussion prevailed by a majority of
only one vote, opposition persisting to
the last. After announcement of the
result by Chairman Simmons, some of
the democratic senators said that the
decision waa tentative and might be
overturned when the amendment was
submitted to the full membership of
the committee next week.
The roll call on the amendment was
not disclosed. 1 hose win) favored it
emphasized the great necessity for ad
ditional revenue and had estimates be
fore them showing that the proposed
exemption reductions would add about
$G, 000, 000 tu the treasury. This
amendment is the second channe in the
income tax proposed by senate demo
crats, who last night voted to increase
t'ne surtax on incomes in excess of
$-.00(1,000 from 10 to 13 per cent. It is
estimated that the surtax change would
(Continued on Page Two I
LOOKING FOR BREMEN?
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BALT1MORR. Aug. 5 The tug
Thomas F. Timmins, which figured
so extensively in the arrival and de
parture of tlie submarine I)eutsch
land, is to have its name changed lo
the Hansa. Ihe Hansa is expected to
figuie in further submafine enterprises.
HO BEPLYTOCftHRAHZA NOTE
OT I N
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Aug. 5. The re
ply to General Carranza's note re
garding the proposed Joint commis
sion to settle border differences will
not be formulated until President Wil
son returns Monday from his week
end cruise down the Potomac.
;'.tate department officials said to
day there would be no announcement
as to the position of the United
States until that time.
It was indicated that while not
entirely satisfactory, General Car
ranza's note is viewed as opening the
way for broadening the scope of dis
cussions by the commissioners as is
desired by the president and informa
tion has reached department officials
that the note was intended to cover
that possibility, although it does not
mention the suggestion, except by
inference.
Whether that will be regarded nn
sufficient to warrant proceeding with
tho negotiations by naming tho
American commissioners and without
further correspondence will be deter
mined by President Wilson.
The state department has renewed,
its representations over the imprison
ment in Mexico City of H. A. Dunn,
an American electrician, charged
w-itli having sold dynamite to Zapata
V
0 Pancho
LINES
political hierarchy, the nominee for
president of the United States,
Charles Evans Hughes."
An assertion bv Senator I.evis that
tlie United States at one time was
about to recognize General Villa as
head eif the de facto Mexican gov
ernment was seized upon promptly by
Senator Kali who declared that this
admission would give the republican
parly its best weapon of tlie cam
paign "We knew that the administration
was at one time ready to recognize
th- chief, assassin, murderer Pancho
Villa, but. tnis is the first time I
have heard a follower eif the ad
ministration ndmit it," he said.
Senator Kali described Senator
Lewis, attack a.s a "most remarkable
hnrar.true" and dee-laved that, des
pite the opinions of democratic lead
ers. Mexico would he a ringing issue
in tiie campaign and that thousands
of refugees from Mexico would lie
asking why the administration did not
live up to its platform pledges.
ADVISED NA1ES
OF U, S, EIOJS
Republican A.
MEXICO CITY
P. leased Wire
, Aug. 5. General
an invitation lor the conference to be
held in Canada, and tendered his ser
vices in making the necessary ar
rangements. Vancouver. B. C, was
suggested as the meeting place.
'ihe text of the latest note of the
Mexican government to the United
States was made public here tonight.
Mexican prisoners in (lualemala,
held on various charges, sent a mess
age today, appealing to tiie Mexican
government fur aid in expediting their
cases. They were informed that the
Mexican ambassador was now on his
way to Guatemala from New Orleans
and would take their cases under ad
visement. Among the prisoners in
Guatemala are many refugees from
Mexico, wanted by the Mexican gov
ernment, among them General Fran
cisco Cardenas, who was in command
of the rural guards at the time Fran
cisco Madero was killed.
AT FORTRESS MONROE
.KORTRF-SS M u.N ROE, Va,, Aug. S.
President Wilson came to Hampton
Roads on tlie naval yacht Mayflower
1 today and spent two hours ashore au
tomobiling with Mrs. Wilson over the
' historic Virginia peninsula.
At her pier today a farm wagon
unloaded a quantity of provisions
which were taken aboard the Tiin
mins. One of the crew said the tug
was just "going after some barges."
It was recalled that Captain Cullison
of tlie Timmins made a similar reply
tn a query when the tuir was waiting
off the capes for the Deutschland.
,T
bandits.
The department also has made in
quiries as to the charges against a
Mr. Kulton, Canadian, manager of the
Electric Light and Power Company
in Mexico City, who lias been thrown
into prison, according to reports to
the British embassy here.
AGUILAR IS NOT
T
Say Danish West Indies
WorthMoreThan$25,000,000
COPENHAGEN. Aug. 5. (via Lon
don) A number of provincial papers,
organs of the Left party are against
the sale to the United States of the
Danish West Indies. Some of the Left
party's members of parliament also
are opposed to the sale, hut owing to
the fact that the Left party favored
the sale in 1902, it is expe-cted a ma
jority of the party will endorse it.
The Left party has not held a com
mittee meeting to take definite action
on the matter.
In Copenhagen, conservative papers,
such as the Berlingske Tidende-, Na
SEVEN HUNDRED
CftRRANZA 1EFI
ARE IN PURSUIT
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
KL, PASO. Aug. 5. Mariano Tames,
formerly a colonel of tho Villa, army,
leading about 100 men, is making his
way south and west from the border
tonight in an attempt to join Villa
in tlie Mapima district, according to
reports here. Tames, who started
from Juarez early today with six men
of the volunteer defense corps, after
failing to organize a revolt of thd
garrison, was joined by 80 men on tha
outskirts of the town and by a score
more from the garrison at Samalayu
ca, thirty miles south, the reporn
said. Pursuing him is a column of
7uu dispatched by General Francisco
Gonzales, commanding the Carranza
army of northern Chihuiehua. with
orders to bring back: the bodies o
the revolutionists.
In tome eiuarters here there was a
tendency to connect the Tames up
rising with the reported revolt of
General Luis Madina Barron, former
federal leader and defender of Tor
reon against Villista attacks and the
20o men of his command in the state
of Guerrero on the Mexican west
coast. In military circles, however, it
was believed that the two revolts are
entirely separate.
Reports e-urrent in EI Paso tonight
that the Carranza military paymaster
in Juarez had absconded with ap
proximately $50,0ou in gold, were de
nied by General Gonzales and Andres
Garcia, local Mexican consul.
Tames, prior to the recent crisis
between the L'nited States and the de
facto government, had no connection
with governmental affairs, being a
member of the middle class, engaged
in merchandise business in Juarez.
At the time of the crisis, however,
he was entrusted with tlie formation
and command of the volunteer de-
iense corps or Juarez, wnien num
bered about one hundred men.
Gloom spread over th army camps
here tonight with the news that wa
termelons have been banned by thd
authorities.
It is not that the melons of the
southwest carry infection or that they
axe not wholesome.
Tlie army fly expert is behind the
order, which is applied to till oiimns
along the border. He has discovered
that the watermelon rind is the only
kind of garbage tiiat cannot be prop
erly disposed of. It cannot be burned,
or effectively buried. The result is
that watermelon peel is the cause of
the present fly pest, and flies, says
the expert, breed disease.
Soldiers Apologize
COLU5IEUS. N. M., Aug. 5. -Military
authorities here announced they
had received apologies today from 24
men whose names had been affixed to
a statement, which, it was asserted,
vouched for the truth of allegations
made in a story published in a Holy
oke, Mass., newspaper, making alle
gations against the officers of com
pany C, Second Massachusetts in
fantry, for the writing of which Pri
vate Hugh Clarke is held in custody
here
The men. who are nil members of
the national guard organization asked
that they be allowed to withdraw
their names from the paper asserting
that they had signed it at Clarke's
solicitation. No action was taken on
the requests, pending advices from
General Pershing.
Snipers Not Active
PRESIDIO, August 5 Military au
thorities here after an investigation
stated that there was no foundation to
the report that four members of the
United States signal corps were fired
on by snipers yesterday about half way
between this place and Marfa, Texas.
This report had been carried to Marfa,
where it was transmitted by the com
manding officer to General Fur.ston.
The de facto garrison of Ojinaga,
under Col. Jose Rojas, evacuated the
town today. Rojas announced he in
tended to proceed southward along the
Conchas river to investigate reports
that a small band of bandits had been
operating between Tinajas and the
frontier. Ojinaga was occupied by vol
unteer forces composed largely of Mex
ican ranchmen.
Business Is Resuming
CHIHUAHUA CITV, August 5.
Steps looking toward the rehabilita
tion of the industrial operations in
southern Chihuahua were reported to
day to Gen. Jacinto Trevino.
G. H. Mackenzie, manager of the
Mexican Northern Power company, an
nounced that his company is consider
ing the construction of a ninety-mile
transmission line, north from La Bo
quilo to the American Smelting and
(Continued on Page Two)
tional Tidende, Vort Land, Hoved
staden and Kristelig Daglad are op
posed to the sale, claiming as do the
provincial papers representing the
Left party, that the matter ought not
to he settled during the war. The
conservative papers asked why the
government kept the matter a secret
to the last moment, and say that the
government has taken the Danish na
tion by surprise.
Some of the papers state tonight
that the islands are worth many times
more than the $25,000,000 offered for
them by the United States.
