DAILY EDITION
4
40L. VI., No. m
J HANTS PASS, JOSEPHINE COUNTV, OREGON, Hi l.", Al UIHT , jojo.
WHOLE NUMBER 118.
Vo Other Town in the World the Size of Grants Pass Has a Paper With Full Leased Wire Telegraph Service.
mm
- '- i " , - -.. ; .1 . ' : '
TEN PER CEN
INCREASE IN
BEEIJJ1IE
Fifty Cents Per Ton More
Than Contract Price An
nounced Elective for Pres
ent Crop-Raise Unexpected
"Tito r4 lm-r on Krue
- valley mkkt twrta whlt'li w an.
nouncixl some wnI ago for the
f 1017 cniu will tw rffertlve for
4 Um 1910 crop," Tlioa, It. Culler
f (kvrl Manager VlltlUho
Hugsr Compuny,
44444444 44. 44
Tea per cent mors thsn the con
tract rate It to be paid for the 1918
crop of sugar beet, according to tht
statement mad late yesterday after
aoon by General Manager Thomaa R.
Cutter of the Utah-Idaho company,
who arrived In the city near noon.
Thin ralie for the rrop beets now In
the ground la the same that was an
nounced last month for tht 191? crop
and when figured up In dollars and
cents means the turning of many
more sugar dollars Into local circu
lation than It necessary under tht
contract. The change In plans has
- seen made In view of Jhe recent rise
In the price of sugar, the company
deciding to allow the farmers who
raise the beets to share In the re
wilting greater returns from the
finished product, , ... s "...,... -The
preeent schedule of prices Is
much more liberal than that under
yhlch the required acreage was sign-
'- si up, amounting to 93. 60 per ton for
beets now In the ground, where the
former rale was five dollars. Where
tbo beets, formerly had to test fifteen
per cent augur to come ' under, the
regular rate, the minimum has been
reduced to twelve "per cent, and for
' every additional one-half per cent
over fifteen, ten cents per, ton addi
tional will be paid.' At this rate
bmt testing 20 per cent would re
turn the grower 6M.
A corresponding raise is the rate
to be paid for 1916 beets will be ef
fective In the Utah and Idaho fields.
The Sutherland growers gct.95.2S for
tbls year'a crop,, the former contract
nchedule having been J4.75.
SPEAKER HACK IX (JAM 14
Cleveland. Aug. G. Trls 8peaker,
who It waa thought would be out of
tht game for several weeks, will be
In the Indian line-up today. Speaker
got nervous while watching his team
mates piny yesterday, and demanded
today that he take his regular posi
tion In center Hold. His Injured
ankle Is not causing him any trouble.
BY
London, Aug. 6. -German second
lint positions on a front of more than
2,000 yards north of Poslcres were
captured, by the British In a resump
tion of tht Somme offensive last
night, Oenersl Halg reported to the
war office today. Several hundred
-prisoners were taken.
, The attack was delivered by the
Australians and Jroops of tht .new
army, and was "completely success
ful." Halg declared. Repeated Ger
man counter-attacks agnlnst the new
ly won positions were repulsed, the
Ormnns suffering heavily.
No other Important .engagements
, occurred on the French front last
night., The only other activity re
Ttorted consisted of mining opera
tions. , ;
GERMAN
POSITIONS
TAKEN
BRITISH
TIMBER SOLD rO
CIS HI CO.
A
Forest Supervisor Macduff has re
ceived the contract between tht For
est Survioe and the Coos Day Lumber
company under which 27 million feet
of timber on the Coqullle River In
the Siskiyou National Forest Is sold
to that Company. The stumpage
prices provided In the contract art
93.00 for Port Orford Cedar or Law-
son cypress, 91.25 for Douglas fir,
91.00 for Western red cedar and 50c
, for western hemlock and grand fir.
1 The estimate value of the timber Is
j 939,000.00. Cutting will begin Aug.
just 7. Forest Kvamlner llaefner of
tut local office of the Forest Service
has gone to Powers to tske cbsrge
of the sale for the Forest Service.
He will 'not only scale the logs aa
they art cut but will also see that
the conditions of the log contrsct srt
complied with.
About half of tht proceeds of tht
tale are turned back Into community
purposes and spent among the people
who reside in or near the national
forest In which the timber lies. Nine
thoussnd, five .hundred dollars from
this sslt will go to county school and
road funds, while the construction
of roads and trails Inside tht forest
eight hundred dollars. These forest
highways are for the use of tht. gen
eral public, making the resources and
recreation grounds of the mountains
more accessible. .
Part of the receipts are used- to
reimburse the government for funds
advanced to National Forest counties
for road building 'done under tht
ShackWord 1)111. Tht remainder Is
turned Into the general fund of the
United States Treasury.
RQBIHS, PROGRESSIVE,
TO SUPPORT HUGHES
. Chicago, Aug. 5. In a statement
Issued here today, Raymond Robins,
chairman of the last progressive con
vention, comes out flat-footedly In
support of Hughes for presidentand
urged progressives to rejoin the
O. O. P. and boost Its candidate.
; "We progressives stand at cross
roads," Robins sold. "American so
cial, Industrial and political life has
broken down unden the old Individ
ualistic control. A new national
mind and conscience, developing so
cial unity, Industrial standardisation,
and political honesty from a self
controlled democracy this Is the
goal of our American life. I beflevt
In the character and courage of tht
nominee of tht republican party. He
la tht most conspicuous example In
our history that American politics
may hold for success In able and un
selfish public service. For myself, I
gladly enlist with the great majority
of tht progressives of the nation un
der leadership of Hughes."
- Robins said tht 1914 elections had
showed progressives regarded tht
progressive candidates bf 1912 mere-
ly as the representatives of a protest, Issue raised by Charles K. Hughes In cenary, tht concessionaire, the Euro
and that Roosevelt correctly Inter-. his acceptance address. pean bondholder, tht mining buc-
preted this In refusing to run In 1916.
ST. IXHJM WANTS TO
- . HEAD FIA8KI1ALL MiAGtii
( 6t. Louts, Aug. S. President 'Ball
of the Browns has offered $5,000 to
his players If they reach first place
for ont day. Thiols not a bonus for
them to win the pennant. '
' If they remain In first place for
three consecutive days, each player
will be given a 950 suit of clothes In
addition to Ms share In tht IS, 000.
AUSTRIAN DN8THOYKH IS SUN.
Rome, Aug. ri.--An Italian sub
marine sank an Austrian destroyer
In the upper Adrlntln this morning,
It was announced by the war office
tonight. ,
Ilfl
Great Austro-German Coa
ler Ofensive Said to Be
Under. Way Against tie
Russian Array at Kovel
London, Aug. 5. -The Germans
art massing both troops and guns on
tnt essiern front for a great counter-
offensive under General von fllnden-
burg, designed to stem the .Russian
advance against Kovel and Jemberg.
This news was received here from
several neutral points today and was
partly confirmed In dispatches from
Berlin. For several days troop tralna
have been leaving Berlin dally, carry
ing reserves to tht eastern front.
Berlin believes tht crisis of tht war
Is approaching on tht eastern front
and for this reason great crowds are
gathering daily to bid tht departing
troops farewell. '".'
Field Marshal von Mackensen, who
Inaugurated tht great German offen
sive against the Russians more than
year ago, has Joined von Hlnden-
burg on the eastern front. The Aus
trian crown prince, recently on the
Italian front, has assumed charge of
operations In Gallcla. A ; ;
Reports from Amsterdam today
said the Drat blow probably would
be struck In the southeast, where the
Slavs tbavt achieved their greatest
gains, Hlndenburg aiming to throw
back the whole 81av line by driving In
the left flank, and at the same time
silencing the Roumanian leaders who
have been urging King Ferdinand to
Join the allies. The battle, It' Is be
lieved, will be gradually spread until
the whole eastern front Is Involved
In a glgantlc struggle, comparable to
that of early last Rummer.
It Is too early to deteamlnt whether
the strong German counter-attacks In
the region east of Kovel form the be
ginning of the expected Austro
German offensive. The Russian war
office statement admits the evacua
tion of Rudka Mlrlnskala under
heavy Austro-German attacks, but
the fighting at this point continues.
DEMOCRATIC WHIP CHARGES EWES
LOST IN MEXICO TO REPUBLICANS
Washington, Aug. 6. On tht heads
of tht "generals" of tht republican
party lies tht responsibility for lives
lost in Mexico, . Democratic Whip
Lewis charged today In a senate
speech.,
Senator Lewis announced his
speech aa an answer to the Mexican
lit declared that irresponsible ,caneers,xthe land pirates, the pillagers
Mexican bandits had betn encour-Jof the peons, the oppressors or lib
aged to commit acts of horror because rty, and all this procession of blood
republican leaders, In their anxiety , tarnished votaries led by the repub
to . embarrass tht president and llcan nominee, Charles E. Hughes.
create a campaign issue, had given "Mr. Huerta declares that Wilson
the Impression that tht country was had nothing to do with tht morals
not united in support of Its executive, of Huerta; that It was tht obligation
head.
, "Here, this day, I put the respon
stiblllty for, tht death of every Amerl- would exclaim: 'Stand not on morals,
can soldier killed on the border of but on power 'tis bloody, but hath
Mexico In 1916 upon the heads of the rewards.' "
generals of the Republican party," j: Huerta having been eliminated,
lwls declared. "I charge that not peace could havt been restored with
until the captains of the republican either Villa or Cnrrania at tht gov
party shot at tht' president of the trnment's head, Lewis said, had hot
United States did thtMexIcan out- financial forces in tht United Stales
laws shoot at tht . aoldlers of the and republican leadera determined to of tht death of those Americans.
American president." keep boiling the pot of Mexican dls- Whenv they shot at the president of
; The Mexican Issue, he asserted, had orders. the United 8tates they summoned
been picked up for purposes of ex- 1 "But by t false display of tlie na-'also the outlaws or Villa and Car
ppdlcncy' only, '-After prosperity had tlon's sentiment toward Mexico." lit ransa to kill his soldiers."
BURGFRENCH HOLD
BUS IDE
Furious Attempts of Teuton
Armies to Retake Lost
Positions Are Repulsed
Mre Still Holds Fleury
Paris. Aug. 6. -The Germans st
tacked furiouy on the Vtrdu'n front
... . - . .
tempta to recapture Thlaumont work
and to drive tht French from Fleury.
Tht war office announced todajj that
the German counter-assaults were
checked with heavy losses.
The Germans launched a particu
larly heavy attack against Thlau
mont work at 9 o'clock last night
after a violent bombardment along
the Thtaumont-Fleury front. Tht
fighting' continued until early this
morning. i .' .
, "Every enemy attack waa re
pulsed.", said one dispatch. "Tht
Germans did not gain a yard, though
they suffered . heavy losses. In
Fleury village the situation remains
unchanged, despite heavy lighting."
On tht' Somme front only minor
engagements. In which several Cer
man patrols were dispersed, occurred
last night Bast of Pont-a-Mousson,
southeast of Verdun, a German at
tack In Sacq forest was checked by
French machine gun fire.
In 1 7 air fights yesterday two Ger
mans dropped to their own lines,
damaged, '., and two others were
brought down In the region of Ver
dun. .
The Germans again attacked on
tht whole Fleury-Thlaumont front,
repeating their tactics of the previous
night, when they moved forward In
dense columns against the newly won
French positions.
' Desperate bayonet fighting again
occurred In the streets of, Fleury,
the war office stated. The Germans
charged repeatedly, but were check
ed by the French, who defended
themselves with bayonets, rifle and
(Continued on Page Six.)
made the favorite republican
doc-
trine, the tariff, impracticable.
"The cry has gone forth 'Mexico Is
tht Issue.' Tht Issue, mind you. Not
that there Is a principle to be vin
dicated, Justice to be asserted. No.
But that Mexico Is to be the political
lasut.
"Tht army Is summoned the mer-
I of diplomacy to recognise him. With
the murdering . Borglas. Hughes
STATE SCRIBES
SPEND TUT UT
CRATER LAKE
Oregon editors closed the opening
sesrlon of the State Editorial Asso
ciation meeting at Med ford with
unanimous approval of plans for the
organization of a Trl-State Associa
tion to include Oregon, Washington,
and Idaho. The present convention
marks the highest point yet reached j
by the state organization, both In
number attending and the warmth of
Interest shown. The , movement to
ward a three-state association Is taken
to promise a better Journalism and
better mutual understanding between
the communities of the great north
west. Saturday sessions were especal-
ly full, with all phases of the news
paper game aa it Is played la Oregon
threshed out by men particularly fit
ted tor the subject assigned. Several
Washington and Idaho Journalists
were present, taking part In discus
sion and working for the larger as
sociation. : i
The editors with their families are
today e njoylng a trip to Crater Lake
as an expression of the hospitality of
Medford. All public clubs In that
city art doing their utmost to accord
the visiting journalists tht best time
they have ever enjoyed in conven
tion, and reports from the meetings
indicate that success has resulted.
Tht Medford Sun report of the
meeting follows in part:
, "How to make a country dally pay"
waa th't subject discussed by A. E.
Voorhles of the .GranU Pass Courier.
After pointing on t that in the news
paper business dollar and cents are
Incidental, the enjoyment of work
and happy contentment contribute
largely to what a newspaper man
considers. JbJa .'pay .'Vie .mentioned
certain matters which he considered
Important in maintaining a profitable
newspaper. .These matters included
the strict maintenance of rates, elim
ination of free, readers, elimination
of white paper waste, In keeping up
delinquent subscribers, faith in one
self, one's community and one's, pa
per, diligence and; "knowing how."
BRITISH LOSE IN
ATTEMPT TO ADVANCE
Berlin, Aug. 5. British troops lost
heavily in an unsuccessful attempt to
advance in tht sector north of Or-
vlllers and in Foureax forest the war
office announced this afternoon.
Near Pozleres a new battle has de
veloped, the British launching fresh
attacks. South of Maurepas, in the
region north of tht Somme', a French
advance was repulsed.
On the Verdun front bitter fighting
is going on In the region of Thlau
mont work. I '
continued, "the republican masters
encouraged every outlaw and cut
throat to feel privileged to assail
whatever represented Wilson or his
policy. These knew they would have
the support of a great party in Amer
ica which for years had been suc
cessful in electing presidents.
"Thus It was that Just a month
after Senator Root had struck his
keynote of opposition to a democratic
president tht murderers dashed into
Columbus, N. ,M.n . :
"Tht bandits of Villa found their
allies in tht leaders of the republican
party. All were for tht destruction
of an American policy and American
president. 1 '
"By the doctrlnt of the law which
holds responsible those who set in
motion the machinery which ends In
the murder of a man, tht republican
platform builders who denounced
their president were the perpetrators
GOUM
POSSIBLE
Strike Trccbles ca America
Railroads Hay Fcrce Fed
eral Acfca fcr ReEef cf
Pcblic, Says Setter Herns
Washington, Ang. 5. The strong- ,'
est argument ever presented for gov
ernment ownership of railroads is tht
threatened paralysis of traffic due to
aa employers-employes controversy.
Senator Norris of Nebraska declared
today.., .;.'' , ..V-
Should tht Impending disaster fall.
ha announced, he will seize tht op
portunity to advanct the doctrlnt that -
private ownership of a public utility
necessarily is opposed to. the public
Interest. '--'
Norris will Introduce a bOl call
ing for the construction or purchase
of a nation-wide system,, a line from
tlie Atlantic to Jtht Paclflo and from !
the gulf to the lakes This ht will
propose to operate as a model utility, ,
both as to treatment of tbt public
In rates and to employes In pay..
"Watered stock Is tht great evil of '
railways," said Norris. "Many of '
them, must earn interest and dirl-
dends.ef from two to five times their
actual vmiue. iouung, inererore, is
more unfair and unintelligent than
to rcuss' railroad managers. Simply
hired men, tbey must operate with "
such economy toward their employes, ,
and with such a make-it-pay-regard- .
less attitude toward the public, that
the surprise is that the blow-up has
not come sooner. 5
"This strike is as inevitable as
summer or winter. Possibly the situ- ,
atlon may be patched up. But so long
as the railroad managers must de-
vote their energies toward earning
dividends and interest on values that
do not exist, there is hanging over v
tho traffic of this country over its i'
business llfo. its food supply. Its milk
trains that carry food for its babies
a Damoclean sword. . J ,
"Government ownership would sue- ;
ceed because there would be no wat-'
ered stock. 'Admit that operation '
might not ' be so economical and
that term may mean, remember, ,
grinding the men-and gouging the .
public nevertheless, with the tre
mendous watering of stock ell m In-
ated, operation would pay.
"One class of stock I would reserve
for employes exclusively, , for them :
to Invest in when they choose. ' ,
"I believe these two lines ont
east and west from ocean to ocean,
the other north and south from tht
lakes to the gulf would have so
great an Influence In moulding rates
and treatment of employes that fur
ther extension of government owner
ship might not be necessary or, if It
was. Its advantages would be so ap- v
parent as to rout opposition.
' "Far more important, It would be
In the public Interest. ' A manager .
would not ask 'how high a rate can
i get for this commodity? How cheap
can I hire this man?' And all rates
would bt uniform and fair, and with
out rebates of any kind.
"If lines could not be purchased
for a fair price, I would build other
lines."
TELEGRAPH OPERATORS
. IN CANADA MAT STRIKE
. WInntpeg, Aug. 8. Strikebreakers .
reported ' Imported by tht Oreat
Northwestern Commercial Telegraph
company will be deported as unde
sirable aliens. If a committee of em
ployes that Interviewed ' Attorney
General Hudson today' is successful.
Tht men say a strike Is Inevitable.
Tht majority of the strikers plan
moving to tht United States to re
lieve an operators' shortage In tht
states. ' '
)
