wltt
THIlSlV-FIRSt YEAR.
NORTH PLATTE, NEB., SEPTEMBER 12, 1916.
No. 69
LOCAL AND PERSONAL j
Watch oilr window tor a Blanket
display. R T, TRAMP & SONS.
For Sale Jacil hard coal stove, 115
oaBt Eight street. "Phono Red 188.
Itev. B. A Cram has g'ono to Hast
ings to attend a.Mothodlst conference.
Dr. Rao. .Arnelll, of Denver, spent
Sunday her with Dr. P. J. Wurtele.
Mrs. Jeff Greeley has gone to Pal
myra to visit relatives for a week or
more. ,
For Ren Modern rooms, Including
heat. 115eat Eighth street Phono
Red 188.
Mr?.. Ralph Saum, of Salt Lake City,
la" visiting; her btiother Thomas Qreen
and family.;
C. P. Temple left Sunday evening
for Alllanfc to spend several days
on business ,
William Roddon returned last ev
ening from Omaha and Lincoln whero
ho spent sevctal days.
Ernest Rlncker leaves at n'con to
day for Lincoln to Tesumo his situdles i
in the statounlverslty.
Tho Royal Neighbors will meet nt
the K. P. hall tomorrow afternoon.
Refreshments will be served.
Mr. and Mrs. Elmer Coates and chil
dren returned Saturday evening from
an auto trip to the state fair.
Tho Tllllkum Girls will hold a sale
of cut flowers at Howe & Maloney's
Saturday commencing at 3 o'clock.
Making over your own millinery
material a specialty. Mrs. Edw,
Burke, 816 east Sixth street. 69-2
Mrs. Charles Mann, tof Sidney, who
visited her mother Mrs. James Mc-
Mlchael for two weeks, will leave Prl
day.
Mrs. M. Fansher, of St.Louls, came
last evening, to visit with her daugh
ter, Mrs. Charles Boeder for some
time.
Mr. and Mrs.- Harloy Bonham and
Robort Derryberry went to Paxton
Sunday evening to spend a week or
longer.
Miss Helene Shtoup visited her cou
sin, Miss Mala Paulson, for several
days while enroute to Belmar to teach!
school.
John Kempth'arne, qf Madrid, Neb.,
who had been visiting, at. the; .A. F.
Beeler residence, returnedi'hbtne' (ills
morning.
Miss Catherine Moore, of Topeka,
Kansas, came yesterday to accept a
bosltlon in the suit department of
The Leader.'
Harve Godfrey expects to leave this
week for Montana, where he will spend
the fall and winter trapping for fur
bearing animals.
The marriage of Miss Lydla Eves,
of this city, and Ralph Reynblds, of
Julesburg, will take pjace at tho home
of tho bride's parents this evening
Mayor Ryan, of Grand Island, was
a guest at the Elks' club last evening,
while entente home from a business
visit to Gandy.
' The Tllllkum girls made the flnal
, payment last -week on a piano they
tourchased for tho Episcopal church
In addition to raising this ?225 In
eighteen months, the girls expended
a considerable sum Intending fltfwers
to members who wero sick and others
who aro not affiliated with the church.
Smlth.Thornbnrg Wedding.
Miss Blancho Thornburg' and Jesse
Smith wore quietly married at halt
past ten last evening at the home of
Dr. and Mrs. O. H. Crosier, Rev. C. B.
Harman performing tho coreniony.
There wore tio attondonts. The brido
EVENTS IN SOCIETY
Tho EntreNous Olub will bo enter-
CITY AND COUNTY NEWS.
A Historical Kellc;
In looking through 1ho papers of tho
lato Alonzo McMlchaol members of tho
Pollen Officer Jones returned Sun-
tained Wednesday afternoon by Mrs. day from Lincoln whero ho attomiea iamiiy lounu a copy -oi uio inow iorK
WlU Owens. West Seventh street. . the state fair last week. Horald dated April 15. 1865, published
.t' i mi tho morning following tho nssaaslna-
Tlvo Catholic Girls' Club Is making For Salo-Favorlto Hard Coal burn- Uon of Pro1(lont UncoUu About two
nfxnnnAmnntn tn imifi n ann n M.tTinn nr it, iniiuiru 11 L 1U1 CUUlit .. .1 -. l. f
wor a traveling suit of dark blue 10 hoTse Monday oven- WlUcw or phono Black 331. CS-2 , J "u Ve Herald
ceremony Ml -and Mm Smith left tori - C. S. Clinton returned yesterday'. then a six column four page paper,
ceremony Air. ana mrs. Minn leu lor .,., ....... wl.nra ho rnntnlnm1 ln nnvna nt nnivfl. rn nt vn
mrs. James I'uviiu uiuui iiuiiuu u ion nuiu i...v.i .-ct -t - - - -
'friends at dinner Sunday afterrtoon In spent two weeks recuperating to tho northern nrmy, though nearly
honor of Mrs. George Scott, of Cuba,
Omaha and other eastern points to
3pend several weeks after which they
win 1m At homo In this cltv. While
the marrlago was not unexpected It Illinois.,
was a surprise to their relatives anu
friends with whom they spent "tho early
part 'of the evening. Tho brldo is a
daughter of Mrs. Mary Thornburg and
came here when a child f rojn Callaway.
For a number of years alio has been
assistant In tho dental office of Dr.
Cresslor, a work In which sho had
Imnnmn vitrv offlHnnt. Thn prinom for
merly lived at Gothenburg and has re- Wurtelo Thursday ovonlng,
. .i in . .. .-, all tho dispatches wore dated ton dayg
souvenir mooting will be held his boforo pub,8hcd. Joft bav,8 Und mndo
nlng by tho omon lodge and a u8t nppoal t0 h,9 foltoworflt odvla.
A
ovonlng
Mrs. Frank. Martin entertained a largo class taKon into tno oiuor. . ,. , fn .f iPt,mnnii
number of friends last evening at a Anthony j0frers returned the latter wa8 a blessing In disguise, but other
Dre-nuDtlal anowor for Miss Lydla.j. , , , ..,?, , .,.,, uxi1 rnnfminpiiin inn.inra n,U-iaK,i t)m unit.
i.ves, who received many pretty vlai. ..,. rAllltVn, tn wvomlnc. mission to neaco terms submitted by
ImiiHolinld articles.
...... ...... . Claronco Jones, son or mr. anu mrs,
IViemDOrB Ol UIO ai. M. M. i;iUU Uliu lnu rnnna lnnvn, ),la woolf tnr XAn.
tho prestdont.
llurglarho Store
their husbandswill bo entertained a t -ffiTMui7 .URi un Iw stty
tho homo or ur. anu mrs. itcu j. i t Tho front door of the Van Scoy boc-
Wnrtein Thnrsdnv ovonlmr. Mr. and For Salo Whtto Leghorn Roosters. n., .,,,
sided hero for several years. He is now Mrs. Jesse Edwards will assist in en- God Brado. Mrs. J. L. Louden, 1015 dajr nl ht nnd a nniber of nrUclo8
traveling Agent for an Insurance com- tertalnlng. - East 4th. Cheap If taken at onco. GO-- 8tolon( nmoig which woro two guns,
Mrs. B. R. Fletcher vas hostess Mrs. Ora Sailor has recolved a post- ono accoruoon, a meoracuaum pipo, two
Friday ovenlng at a surprise fare- tloh from tho Goodwin Corset Co., as clarinets and a suit caso belonging to
well party given In honor of hor aunt traveling saleslady In twelve counties. C r. Harshiiom, of Houerourcuo b
Tim nllvnr lfwln? mina vjMrh will Miss Ada BOUtWCll. TllO gUCStS Wore nvir "Po T.nan ana nr wrltft (ln
J? W&3$vtl' EamC8 a"d Crook, room 3, Waltema'th building,
HH HI" nilllV lIllllLrNL ill. 1. 1 1 1 U111LU111 1
patty In Lincoln.
congratulations.
Their friends extend
D.
Ornnty Fair, boglnnlng September 26,
were received this morning by the
commltteo and are .being displayed In
the windows of the Dixon and Clinton
Jewelry Btores. Tho cups aro mount
ed on ebony based. 'JRor the second
high adores tho Woman's Homo Com
panion has dQnatcd bronze modals
wlllQh aro also on display.
Money to lonn on Real Estate. No
wnlt If the title Is clear. Seo
BRATT, GOODMAN & BUCKLEY.
At Quebec yestorday thousands of
pe'ople who had gathered to seo the
completion of tho now soventeen mil
Hon dollar bridge across tho St. Law
rence river, wero horrified when a sec
tion weighing 5000 tons collapsed as
It was being hoisted Into place, and
resulting in the! death of twenty-five
men.
Hop prices In Omafia slumped about
ton cents yesterday, the prices tor tho
day ranging from $10 to $10.70. Cattlo
Mrs. C. F. Iddings gave a luncheon ?"""
on Wednesday and a kenslngton on jirs, Mary Thornburg who was op
Friday afternoon In honor of Mrs. W.l'nndted unn at itho Nurso Brown hos-
B. Cionklln of Chicago who was her ntfn.1 in, iMk rnturnpd to hor homo
guest, inoso present wero inouua oi yesterday.
fi.,7ii.i nm .i,ti bim Mrs. Mary Moonoy and daughter
wna a resldnnt T.f tills cltv. "w. uu ,u" ""
' I T -. I i 1 . n ..l.l.n.l r. ntlil.
I lVUAiilKlUU YIIUC lllU IIOIIUU IWU11UO
Tlie atuuy ciud noui us inuiai meet- nn ro nt vp.s.
1 .1. n. ,H. nt tloo 1
u ' "T" ' . " T ivr T..l llvn
a.tl.flrt WnB Iocs nvnnlnff tl.n crrnnrori l.li. wnu imo. uuu.o u.u ,i..w ...w
part of the ovenlng bohtg devSted to south of town aw rejoicing over tho
the recoptlon of now members, for MMi1111 w u ya u"f
whom a farcical initiatory ceremony -, 'u uo'- "-""
had been arranged. Thosorecelved V6s Hazel McGulro, of Choyenne,
last nicrht woro Mosdames J. 8. Sims, nr'rlvfid Inst nlsrht and will visit Mr.
H. W; Rlncker and Ira L. Bare. The nd Mrs Horton Mungor and other
1.1. 1 ..1- ...lit I.UM vtnofftlCr 4 .
mumuurs ol wiu uiuu wni nviu u ijiuuu rrionus,
mi.k.u. .1 n AirnntMn . WtnU i lift llllb.l
bands of the married members have "1"
hppn invltwl guest of Mrs, Geo; B. Dont, having ar-
" I mi.a.1 H.lnt. m it Allan linirnt TrtT"-
Announcement mbrly resided in this city.
Tho millinery department of uio ir nnd Mr8, o. R. Robinson who
Saturday Is tho first day tot our
Blanket Salo. E. T). TRAMP & SONS.
ItAILROAD NOTES
V
William Baldock rosumod viiork '4
tho dispatcher's offlco tho latter' part
ot"lost .week nftor a Vacation of dey
oral weeks. t
A. L. McDowell, former U. P. clalba
agont, wh'o has been residing on -a
homestead tn Wyoming, Is spending a,
fow days In town.
Conductor Edmonds, of tho Oaiaha
Portland run, will leavo this week?
for an extended visit with relatives
In Bowling Green, Ky.
Mr. and Mrs. Porcy O'Brien, who
havo rosldod In Omaha for several
months, returned Saturday morning
and tho former will resumo his duties
ns passonger brakeman.
C II. Dill and family returned Sat
urday ovonlng from Salt Lake City
whero thoy vlsltod for sovornl weeks.
Tho former resumed work as night
ticket agont Sunday evonlng.
ixon
For Salo
Good Hay Land 5 miles from Dick
ons, Lincoln Co., Nob. Address Mrs.
M. E. Nolson, Chula Vista, Calif. G7-4
- -::o::
Rains Friday, Saturday and jostor
!Iay well Soaked tho ground.
Huh nnnnnil Inst week with a full line nviitiiAl Rliiclntnn hnusn for sov-
prices were steady, choice beoves sell- 0f the Grace pattern and Gago hats. ertti months moved Into tho Grimes r
ing as high as $10.75, and choIcffeed- Tim Btock this season was selected to residence on west Third street Sat-
ers ai $o.d. suit all patroHB ana Hiio maios aro cor- mday.
For Sale Pure Bred Duroc-Jersey u'.auy myitou "" r'J nnv Ariibroso and dauchter. of To-
Hogs, male and female. All eligible "no um new af0 oxpcoted horJ thla
al 0"0U"V",-1. .Vru ";VVA"; wiek to visit Mr. and Mrs. A. A.
vlnter styles, your patronage win ub t' ..
annreclated. - . 4 Mr. and Mrs. Joo Knadjl havo re-
::o:: , turned from a visit at Mlllor. Mr.
Senubllcnn Gains In-amino. Knadil has nurchased a farm .near
Early roports from tho election held that place and expects to remove tthero
ln Maine "yesterday show republican to about thd first of December.
gains over the year 1914 and if Rooms for Rent Inquire 406 east
the gains indicated in tho lirst Third. 65tl
i IXIsv.l It ! n. maI
reoori aro muiuiuuiuu, -uic o- . .,. -cii .,n,i
DubllcaiiB will elect a governor, two! uA..l"iMVbr'"(r
United States senators, and three If f"",?
nincts of the state Eavo the republicans b0 'transacted.
a irnln of thinty-flvo ner cent over the Llovd Gilford and Miss Gertrude!
1914 voto and the democrats a gain of Houchin. of Ogalalla, who visited Mr,
seven per cont. " . anil Mrs. Jack Bcal for several days,
, wdro granted a marrlago license yes-
Arthur Billiard Promoted. . . terday afternoon.
An Omaha paoor states that Arthur Bazel Decker." ago 59, of Molbota, and
W. Bullard,of this city, who has been Harriot DoWltt, ago 43, or Maretta,
(luartormaster sergeant of Co. E, Fifth -were issued a marriage, license by
Nebraska regiment, has bqen promoted County Judge French Saturday and
to regimental supply sergeant, unis woro married by uov. u. a. uram.
to registry. Inquire of or address
Blankenburg Bros., Phone Red 851,
1305 North Locust street. North Platte,
Nebraska-- . 69-4
When the ground "dries, tho fair
association will be glad to have au-
toists use the race track. By doing
this the 'track will be packed and har
dened and put In bettor shape for the
races.
Special Blanket Sale for one week,
beginning Saturday, tho 16th, to Sat
urday, September 23a. Now is your
tpportunlty to lay In your fall sup
ply. E. T. TRAMP & BUNS.
Friends In town received word that
J. Delzell, an aged farmer who had re
sided in the vicinity of Maxwell, died
at his home there yesterday.
Mrs. Gummero. of Sutherland, vl3lt
ed at the Paulson home a few days
ago while enroute to Omaha to sub
mit to an operation.
WANTED
Good purty to ro?it one or more
modern . up-to-date stenm hented
rooms, close In.
BRATT, GOODMAN & BUCKLEY.
IS a very grauiying prouumu... rwtrntt. who was arrostba
apppared in district court aauuruay ai-
torno'on and, pleaamg guilty, was given
a thirty day Jail sentence.
Company E
ANNOUNCING
A Service of Real, rrnetlcnl Benefit to the Men nnd Women of this
City nnd Vicinity.
Every person in this community who now has a Life Insurance Pol
icy, or expects to have one soon will gladly take advantage of the ser
vice this hank now offers for meeting the annual expense.
Life Insurance is a valuable and
necessary thing for every man
to have, no matter what his
financial circumstances. Our
advice, given as bankers, ia th&t
every man should carry enough
good insurance to assure the
future independence of his fam
ily, to protect his business in
terests and prospects.
But, many people lack the in
surance protection they really
need because they .have found
the annual premium expense
too isrea, a burden to bear..This
is because no pratical plan has
heretofore been provided for
setting aside a portion of . the
weekly or. monthly income as
fund to meet this payment.
t
The'Thrift" Insurance Paying Plans
offer the most statlsfnctory solution of tills problem.
They are a part of the Service offered by our "Thrift Savings ClubB"
Department, which was organized to give everyone assistance in finan
cial matters; and which so many people havo found helpful in various
ways. Since Life Insurance is bucIi a necessary, thing for all classes of
people, we feel it is our duty to come .forward with this Servjce, which
will make possible its universal purchase, by eliminating the hardship
of paying the premium, and thus help increase the prosperity of our
people.
No Charge for this Scrvice'A Plan to Suit Every Need.
' No matter what the amount of your annual premium, or when it is
fhiR. there is a "Thrift" plan to care for it nicely. Either call, write or
telephone the bank for information or ask any Insurance , Agentjn the
city, we are here to serve you.
Watch for announcement next Friday.
McDonald State Bank
"Tho Bank Behind the Thrift Movement."
(( 1
i -waving cuvas
:o::-
FOIt BENT
Vnriilslicd nnd unfurnished houses,
rooms, modern nnd otherwise, storage
room and saio deposit uoxes.
BRATT, GOODMAN & BUUK-KI.
Nurse Brown Hospltnl Notes
Vernon, tho son of Mr. and Mrs
Thomas Austin, underwent a minor
onoration Friday.
Mrs. Mary Thornburg was amo 10
Ipnvn tlio lins'nltal yesterday.
A daughtor was born to Mr. ana
Mrs. John Pears'on. of Gothenburg,
Mrs. Austin Grogg has entered tho
hospital for treatment.
Mrs. J. T. Morrow was able to leavo
tho hospital yesterday.
Dr. Richardson,. of Hershey, was Uore
on professional business recently.
Tho Woman's Homo Missionary So
cioty will moot Friday at ho homo of
Mrs. Ray O. Langroru.
NORTH PLATTE
..General Hospital..
(Incorporated)
0m Hall 'Block Nwth ol Posloflke.
Phm 58
A modarn institution -for th
cieatific treatment of medical,
surgical and confinement caai.
bomplttely equipped X-IUy
and diagnostic laboratories.
Staff:
Gw. B. Dot, M. D. V. Laos, M. D.
J.B.Re&HM.D. J.S. W,M.D
Um H. StMM, Supt.
Ml
Ml Tl 1
"iiVJUA
Show Her You Mean Business
Take it from ufl, young man, few girls of the right jptyV'
havo the heart to turn down a man who is thoughtful
enough to give her in the beginning her heart's desirea
horne of her own. It's the ono thing that every woman
wants for there her dreams of past years become realities.
Build a Home Now
and start life in the right way full of happiness and con-
tentment. We have several books of tho latest deIgn&fl
houses and bungalows. Come In and select the one you
like best and let us figure the cost for you complete, foun- -
datlon and all. We have everything in building material
you'll need. Come In any day and we'll show you a plan
she'll like.
W.W.BIRGECO.
PHONE 9.
Announcement of the ,
Fidelity's New Policy
The Policy that is Different
Thoro has bpon a growjnK donund for a plan ot Insurauce, which
will comblno ai far ai poaslblo tho features of those most popular -of
Insurance policies i '
The life and Endowment Plans.
Tho Ufo.'plan maKoa protection during life tho chief object of Insur
ance and tho most important period that we need this protection is
during our. nctlvo period of life, say from 20 to GO years of ago .
Tho Endowment plan combines firotectlon with an Investment feature,
frojm which, tho iusurod will roap the. benefit of living at tho end of
tho endowmont period Under tho usual ondowmont forms, sayd 10,
15, 20 or 25 years endowment policies, the premium Is Ulgu , for tho
protection afforded (abjvo tho average' man's ability to pay) and
whoro the sacrifice is mado and thoy aro carried, tho ondowmont period
comes early in lifo and you use tho money, lose tho protection early
' In llfo and .when-you come to old age you are not much botteroit,
Th Fhlolltv now issues a policy, to a great oxtent, combines the
llfo and , endowment features and overcoming all those objections,
The Installment Endowment at Age60
This ipolloy eWa pro'.ucdon during the active period of your llfo,
vl;s: From tUe time you tako it out until you aro CO "yeara o ago.
You make your last' premium paymont whon you aro 6Q years( of
age, and commonco drawing tho face of tho policy In tea equal ' in
stallments. Tho premium on this policy Is Just a little more than for
a wholo llfo pojlcy. ' Phone tho offlco for an appointment for fur
ther particulars and advantagos of this policy, ,VV-
Fidelity Reserve Company
(THE HOME COMPANY) Phnt 89
- , i
