VOL. LVIII. NO. 220
POPULATION 2?? ,
NORWICH, CONN., TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 1916
TEN PAGES SO COLUMNS
PRICE TWO CENTS
jr.
The Bulletin's Circulation in Norwich double That of Any Other Paper, and Its Total Circulation is the Largest in Connecticut in Proportion to the City's Population
Elected a Governor, Auditor, Two United States Sena
tors and Four Congressmen
WIN CONTROL OF ASSEMBLY FROM DEMOCRATS
Carl E. Milliken, Republican, Defeated Gov. Oakley C. Curtis,
Who Sought Reelection, by a Plurality of About 13,000
The Closest Fight Was for Congressman From the
Second District, Where Congressman Daniel J. McGilli
cuddy, Democrat, Was Defeated by Wallace H; White,
Jr., by a Plurality of About 500 Vote Was Heavy and
Shows That the Progressives Have Returned to the Re
publican Fold.
Portland, Maine. Sept. 11. Maine
republicans, reinforced by returning
progressives, won a signal victory at
the state election today. They elect
ed a governor, auditor, two United
States senators and four congressmen
and wrestftrg control of the state house
of representatives from the democrats
will be able on a Joint ballot of the
legislature to elect the other elate of
ficerg not chosen by popular vote.
Milliken Led His Ticket.
Carl K, Mittiken led his ticket, de
feating Governor Oakley C. Curtis,
who sought re-election, by a plurality
approximately thirteen thousand.
The republican drift extended to
county officers, the greater number of
counties choosing republican county
attorneys and sheriffs. These offices
are important locally because the hold
ers are charged with the enforcement
of the prohibition law.
Vote Was Heavy.
The vote was heavy, as had been ex.
pected, for the campaign had been
waged with a determination not seen
in recent years. The country was
searched out for speakers of national
prominence by both parties and the
greater number of these battled on na
tional issues. The fight was particu
larly hot for the two United States
.enatorships and four places held by
Maine in the lower house at Wash
in gton. The national defence, the
tariff and the eight, hour law for rail
road men loomed large in the discus
sions. Tho progressives, who two years ago
cast 18.256 votes, returned largely to
the republican party, in the opinion of
republican leaders.
Close fight For Congressman,
The closest fight w.-,s for congress
man from the second district where
Congressman Daniel J. McOillicuddy
vas defeated by Wallace H. White, Jr.,
whose plurality was about 500.
Progressives Return to Republican
Fold.
The election was the culmination of
one of the hottest fights ever waged
in the state and marked the reunion
o fthe repuMi'an and progressive par
ties, who:?? differences in 1912 gave the
electoral vote of Maine to President
Wilson ant two years later resulted
in the election of Governor Oakley C.
Curtis, a democrat, by a plurality of
2.1S9. Tonirhts figures indicate that
the larger percentage of the progres
sive vote which two, years ago was
IS. 216, was -cost today for the repub
lican ticket
National Issues Kept to the Front.
Throughout the campaign in which
a great number of miyl from all parts
cf the country, and drawn from re
publicans, democrats and progressives;
participated, rational issues were kept
to the front. The Interest aroused to
gether with perfect weather, brought
out one of the biggest votes ever cast
in the state and possibly greater than
has been known before.
Senators by Popular Vote.
For the first time the two United
States senators were elected by popu
lar vote and the republicans made a
determined effort to win the tine seat
in the senate and the single seat in
the house of representatives by Maine
democrats. The democrats had claim
ed the state by 3,000 and the republi
cans by 13,000.
State Legislature Republican.
Tho indications early tonight were
that the state legislature had been won
by the republicans, who now control
the senate. The lower house is dem
ocratic. Early figures showed a re
publican gain of live seats in the
house and two in the senate.
Telegram to Charles E. Hughes.
Senator-elect Frederick Hale tonight
Font the following telegram to Charles
E. Hughes, at Plattsburgh, N. Y.:
"Maine today has b'azed the way
for the rest of the country. We have
elected our governor, two United
States senators and the indications
point to a solid republican delegation
in congress. The progressive party
tcday supported the republican nom
inee. A reunited republican party
has become a reality in Maine. The
campaign was waged and won largely
on national issues and the results are
a triumphant endorsement of your
candidacy for president.''
Governor Curtis, after receiving the
early returns, gave out this state
ment: "From the figures that have been
given me it looks 5fke Milliken. If the
republican ticket doesn't get 15,000,
Wilson is upheld. If Milliken holds
Jtfnat ration, prohibition wins, of
course."
What tho Returns Show.
. t midnight the returns for tha.
Btat legislature were incomplete. The
figure then stood:
i Senate 12 republicans; no demo
crats: 19 seats missing.
House. 60 republicans; 27 demorcats;
64 rents missing.
Tho town of Gray elected a repub
lican to the state house of representa
tives for tho first time in twenty years.
With forty-eight precincts out of a.
total of 635 missing representing for
ty towns and a fewprecihets in this
city, the vote for governor late to
night stood:
Milliken 77,045.
Curtis 64.S97.
The result in the sixteen counties
for local officers was: Fourteen re
publican county attorneys, one demo
cratic county attorney, one county
missing: sheriffs, thirteen republicans,
one democrat, one county in doubt, one
county missing.
LEADERS AT NATIONAL
REP. HEADQUARTERS
Declare the Result of Maine Election
Shows a Reunited Party.
New York, Sept. 11. Leaders at re
publican national headquarters here
tonight expressed elation over the re
sult of today's election in Maine, while
those at democratic headquarters de
clined to concede any triumph to the
republicans in carr? ing the state. Sec
retary Reynolds of the republican na
tional committee, issued a statement
In which he said:
"The result in Maine, especially in
the republican vote for governor, shows
an absolutely reunited party. Carl E.
Milliken has received the votes cast
for the progressive candidate two years
ago together with the 'stay-at-homes'
vote or two years ago.
"Best of all. the state has repudiated
Senator Charles F. Johnson, a member
of the finance committee of the sen
ate, which framed the present dem
ocratic tariff bill."
Leaders at democratic headquarters,
In the absence of reports from Maine
state leaders, declined to issue a state
ment. DEMOCRATIC CHAIRMAN,
TAKES HOPEFUL VIEW
McCormick Says Maine Election Indi
cates a Sweeping Democratic Vic
tory in November.
New York, Sept. 11. Chairman Mc
Cormick of the flpmnrrntin nnmmitoa
issued the following statement:
"The result of tho election in Maine
indicates a sweeping democratic vic
tory in November. I have never claim
ed that we would win in Maine; be
cause I realized to carry such a rock
ribbed republican stronghold in a pres
idential year would be practically im
possible. We have materially re
duced the usually large republican
majority, always obtained on national
issues in that state and that, insures
the election of President Wilson in
November by an impressive majority,
lust as a republican plurality of 12 -500
in September, 1892, prefaced the
e'ecticn of Fresident Cleveland in No
vember. "It is the first time United States
senators have ever been elected in
Maine by a popular vote and the senti
ment as to national issues is to be
gauged by the vote cast upon the same
issue in other years."
Chairman Willcox of the republican
committee telephoned from Syracuse
to republican headquarters tonirnt a
statement in which he said the result
of the Maine .election means a reunited
republican party, assuring the election
of Charles E. Hughes in November.
HUGHES OPENS CAMPAIGN
IN NEW YORK STATE
Outlined His Views on American En
terprise at Dinner Given at Syracuse.
Syracuse, N. Y.. Sept. 11. Charles
E. Hughes came back to his home
state today to campaign. He addressed
two audiences here, one at the state
fair grounds. this afternoon, the othet
at a dinner given in his honor by the
Syracuse Allied clubs. Before the lat
ter he outlined his views on Ameri
can enterprise.
"I have no sympathy," he said,
with those who look askance upon
carrying the American name and
AmericaM Investment to foreign lands.
We should take pride In every exten
sion of our commerce and the enter
prise of our citizens which takes them
to other lands. So long ag they peace
fully conduct their honest business it
is the duty of the United States to
protect the lives and property of its
citizens ' and American rights under
internatkmalilaw.
"There is no other way for Ameri
can progressive. It Is perfectly idle
to suppose, that we can have an endur
ing peace and "prosperity If -we do not
have an - inense patriotic sentiment
dominant -throughout our land, de
manding that the rights of our citi
zens shall be respected."'
The nominee : evinced much satis
faction over the returns from the
Maine election. He left late tonight
for Plattsburgh, where tomorrow night
he will make the last address of his
present campaign trip."
Bandits Fired Bullets Into Train.
Laredo, Tex., Sept. 11. Eondits Tired
many bullets into a train on the V
tlonal- railway near Victoria, Mex.,
Saturday, according to passengers ar
riving here today. No one was killed,
but several passengers were wounded,
they said.
Cabled Paragraphs
British Steamer Lexia Sunk.
London, Sept, 11, 4.15 p. m. The
British steamer Lexie is reported as
sunk, says a Lloyds Shipping Agency
announcement this afternoon.
COLLAPSE OF BRIDGE
OVER ST. LAWRENCE RIVER
Eleven Lives Lost Ninety Men Were
On the Span When Began to Sway.
Quebec Que, Sept. 11. Eleven lives
were lost and the second attempt to
bridge the St. Lawrence river here
resulted in a failure today when the
massive center span, weighing 5,100
tons, suddenly collapsed and fell into
the river. Of the ninety men caught
on the span when it began to sway all
were rescued except the eleven. Only
four bodies have bee nfound.
The span was being raised from pon
toons and was about fifteen feet above
the water when it gave way.
The river was filled with boats and
on the hills along the shore were hun
dreds of people who had corhe by rail
and automobile to see the cumination
of the mighty engineering project.
The big steel frame was towed to the
gap which it was expected to fill.
Shortly after eight o'clock the pon
toons reached the allotted place and
were withdrawn by tugs, leaving the
massive girder resting on hydraulic
jacks. Hardly had these begun- to
raise the big span when the crowds,
thinking they had seen the most im
pressive ceremony of the bridge rais
ing, shouted and began to leave. Sud
denly there was a roar of breaking
steel and the span dived Into the
water, which is 20 feet deep at this
point.
The ninety or more men on the span
were plunged into the water. A ma
jority of these were rescued by the
pleasure crafts. Late tonight eleven
were listed as dead and missing. First
reports were much exaggerated and
gave the list of dead as eighty or
ninety.
$600,0000 PP.OPERTY LOSS
FROM BRIDGE DISASTER
Engineer Believes the Span Which
Sank Could be Raised.
Toronto, Sept. 11. The property loss
lie approximately $600,000, it was stat-
the Dominion Bridge company. The
accident will delay the completion cf
the structure for ten months, he said.
J. G. Gerry, a consulting engineer
who was a member of the commission
which investigated the. 1907 disaster,
said he believed that the span which
sank today could be rasied.
PROBABILITY OF GREECE'S
ENTRY INTO THE WAR
Prominent Greek Official Says It Soon
Will be a Settled Fact.
Athens, Sept. 11, 6 p. m. Via Lon
don 6:07 p .m. If the entente and an-ti-Venezilist
faction can only keep
quiet for ten days and not embroil the
situation, Greece's entry into the. war
will be a settled fact," said a prominent
Greek official to The- Associated
Press this morning. '"If not," he con
tinued, "it is the end of Greece."
King Constantino and Premier Zai
mis had a lengthy conference on the
situation today. On the whole the sit
uation with regard to Greece's entry
into the war on the side of the entente
allies seems favorable, notwithstand
ing the arrest last Sunday and Mon
day by Anglo-French secret police of
German and Austrian agents, against
which Premier Zaimis vigorously pro
tested and complicity by the French in
the disaffection of the Eleventh Greek
division at Saloniki, which profoundly
shocked the Greek public and seriously
endangered the success of the ntgotia
tions then in progress. The mere sug
gestion of the possibility of King Con
stantino commanding the allied armies
in Macedonia, however, seems to over
ride every hesitation.
The reported opposition of Russia
and Italy to Greece's co-operation in
the war is actually much less than had
been believed and the Serbs, far from
objecting, are most anxious that the
Greeks join the entente allies. It is
generally conceded in entete circles
that General Serrail, the French com
mander, would be glad of the assist
ance of the Greek soldiers who fought
against the Bulgars three years ago.
The only menace to the success of
the negotiations lies in the Greek gov
ernment holding out too long in the
hope of obtaining the concessions
which were offered eighteen months
ago but which no longer obtain.
Eight classes of untrained reservists
between the ages of 33 and 40 years
will soon be calle dto the colors.
MAY WITHDRAW WARNING
TO STAY OUT OF MEXICO.
Indication is That State Department
Will Take This Action.
New London, Sept. 11. An inquiry
which has for its object the return to
Mexico of Americans w ithproperty
interests there was begun here today
by the American-Mexican joint com
mission. It was indicated that if the
facts disclosed warrant it, the state
department might withdraw its warn
ing that Americans stay out of the
neighboring republic for the present.
GERMANS SEIZE $150,000,000
PLACED IN BELGIAN BANK.
Offered to Pay 5 Per Cent, and Return
the Money After War.
The Hague, Netherlands, via London,
Sept. 11. The Belgisch Dagblad an
nounces that the German authorities
have seized $150,000,000 which had been
placed in the coffers of the Belgian
National bank in consequence of the
suspension of the moratorium. The
newspaper says the Germans have of
fered to pay. 5 per cent, interest and
to return the money two years after
the close of the war.
A COMPULSORY RECRUITING
LAW FOR CANADA
Hinted at by Sir George E. Foster,
Minister of Trade and Commerce.
Saskatoon, Sask, Sept. 11. Sir
George E. osteFr, Canadian minister
of trade and commerce, speaking of
tho war at a mooting here today, hint
ed at the passage of a compulsory re
cruiting . law.
"If more men are needed, and will
not voluntarily go," he added, "the
lesson of Great Britain will have to
bo learned in Canada,'
Danbury-Jpluirtbers are Scarce in
Danbury compared to the demand for
them, and a local plumbing shop had
to import two from Bridgeport and one
from Watorbury; to take care of in
creased business.
President Wilson
in New London
MRS. HOWE, HIS SISTER, IS BE
YOND RECOVERY
MAY LIVE SEVERAL DAYS
President's Private Car Was Quickly
Surrounded by a Crowd, who Clap
ped and Cheered Spent Night on the
Mayflower.
New London, Sept. 11, President
Wilson came here today to be at the
bedtide of his sister. Airs. Annie E.
Howe. A bulletin issued tonight by
physicians said Mrs. Howe's condition
was unchanged and that she was rest,
ing comfoHJably. It was generally
understood that although she might
live several days she was beyond re
covery. Spent Night on Mayflower.
President Wilson remained in the
hotel where Mrs. Howe is stopping un
til late tonight and then went on board
the naval yacht Mayflower, which ar
rlvr.1 here today. He will remain on
board until tomorrow. Beyond that
his plans are indefinite, although it
is eve-Hed he will remain here until
there is a change in Mrs. Howe's con
dition. Four Hour Rough Ride.
After a four hour ride over rough
roads in an automobile from the sum
mer White House nt Long Branch, N.
X, to New York, the president board
ed a New Haven train and was
brought here rapidly on a schedule
especially arranged by Howard Elli
ott, president of the road. At New
Haven he talked briefly with Mr.
Elliott and shook hands with a group
of railroad employes, but after his
arrival here he paid no attention to
he crowds. 1
Car Quickly Surrounded.
When the president's train arrived
his private car was quickly sur
rounded by a crowd that packed the
neighboring streets. As though un
aware of his mission, the people clap
ped and cheered. Miss Margaret Wil
son met her father at the train with
an automobile.
After the president had seen his sis
ter the three American members of
the joint commission here to discuss
the Mexican situation Secretary
l ane. Judge George Gray and John R.
Mott called to pay their respects. All
expressed their deep sympathy. The
Mexican question was not discussed.
No Inquiries About Maine Election.
The president made no inquiries
cbout the Maine election and members
of his party hesitated to offer him any
political news.
For-a brief period during the ride
from New York, however. Homer
Cummings, vice chairman of the dem
ocratic national committee, who had
expected to see him at Long Branch
today, talked with him in his private
car.
All Close Relatives in New London.
Nearly all of Mrs. Howe's closest
relatives were here tonight in addition
to the president and Mrs. Wilson.
These included Joseph R. Wilson ot
Baltimore, a brother. Mrs. Anne Coth
ran, of Philadelphia, a daughter, Anne
Cothran, a granddaughter and two
sons.
When he saes back to the summer
White House, the president will travel
by sea on the Mayflower.
WAR OF PILLAGE AND
ROBBERY IN TURKESTAN
Tribesmen Aid Turks in Their Ad
vance Into Persia.
Washington, Sept. 11. A holy war
decreed by the Sunni Mohammedans
and a war of pillage and robbery by
the various tribes of Turkestan have
proved of material aid to the Turks
in their advance into Persia, accord
ing to despatches reaching here today.
Russian reinforcements, however, have
dispelled large bands of the nomad
auxiliaries of tho Turks. The Turk
ish regular forces in Persia are esti
mated at only about 20,000 men.
14 NEW CASES OF
PARALYSIS IN STATE
Two in Willimantic Make a Total of
600 Cases in the State.
Hartford, Conn., Sept. 11. Dr. John
T. Black, secretary of the state board
of health, received today notices of
14 new cases of infantile paralysis in
this state for the following towns:
Willimantic 2; Stamford 3; Haddam,
East Granby, Portland, Southington
and Shelton one each; Hartford 4.
These made a total of 600 cases in
the state.
TWO YOUNG SISTERS
STRUCK BY AN AUTO
Dorothy Lowden, 7, Instantly Killed
Sister Slightly Injured.
Ansonia, Conn., Sept. 11. Dorothy
Lowden, 7 years old, was instantly
killed and her sister Margaret, aged 9,
slightly injured tonight when they
were struck by an automobile driven
by John Bozza on North Main street.
The girls were behind a trolley car
and did not see the approaching au
tomobile. Bozza was arrested and
held without bonds for a hearing.
HALF MILLION LIABILITIES
WITH NO ASSETS
Max Frisch and Lilly Frisch of Lynn
File Bankrupt Petitions.
Boston, Sept. 11. Max Frisch, of
Lynn, a contractor, filed a voluntary
petition in bankruptcy in the federal
court today, showing liabilities of
$296,286 and no assets, Lilly Frisch,
who gave the same address as Max
Frisch, also filed a voluntary petition
in which it was stated that her liabil
ities weia $268,176, with no assets.
OBITUARY
Rear Admiral Geo. E. Hendes, U. S. N.
Brookline, Mass., Sept. 11. Rear Ad
miral George. E. Hendes, U. S. N., (re
tired), died at his home herd last night.
Ho was born In Boston,, 76 years sago
and was retired in 1902 after mora than
40 years' continuous service in tho pay
master's division of the navy depart
ment. He took part ra many naval
engagements during the Civil war-
urface
Oar Strik
srious
TRANSIT AT A STANDSTILL IN
MANHATTAN
6,000 POLICE ON DUTY
Violence Occurred at Several Points
Yesterday Subway and Elevated
Trains Were Overcrowded Labor
Leaders Seeking Sympathic Strike.
New York, Sept. 11. With surface
ear transit virtually at a standstill in
Manhattan, the Bronx, Yonkers and
parts of Westchester ccunty, and with
subway arid elevated facilities affected
more than at any time since the Inter
borough Rapid Transit strike was call
ed last Thursday, the traction situation
in New YorK tonight assumed a more
serioud aspect
Labor leaders held conferences dur
ing the day on the question of seeking
a sympathetic strike among Various
crafts which, if successful, would call
out 750,000 men in the metropolitan
district, but it was admitted that no
definite action could be expected for at
least a week. The firfet demonstration
of a sympathetic strike came today
tvhon union teamsters employed by two
brickmaking concerns quit their posts
rather than haul sand to the New York
Railways company power houses.
A Sympathetic Strike Predicted.
Hugh Fraync, an organizer of the
American Federation of Labor, tonight
predicted that a sympathetic strike
would be called -within a week among
several traies closely affiliated with
the operation of traction lines, num
bering approximately 70,000 men. These
would include longshoremen, power
house employes, teamsters and station
ary engineers and firemen, he asserted.
Action by international officers of
these organizations would be necessary
b'efore a strike could be called, Mr.
Frayne 6aid.
Strikers Want to Parade.
Strike leaders will ask Mayor Mitchel
for permission to conduct a parade, to
be followed by a mass meeting, Wed
nesflay, it was announced. It is planned
to make the atfair a huge laocr demon
stration, it is said, and the principal
line of inarch would be up Fifth ave
nue.
Violence st Several Point3.
Violence in connection with the
strike occurred at several points today
and one serious demonstration was
broken up only by vigorous action on
the part of the police reserves.
This occurred when strikers piled
cobblestsnes on the track, stopping a
surface car. Stones were then hurled
at th? car until all its windows were
sm-ished and parts of the woodwork
demolished. - A "woman: passenger was
stunned when she was knocked down
by the rash to get off the car. The
strikers lifted the motorman and con
ductor to their shoulders and started
to their hall with them, but policemen
rescued! the men and they ran the car
Into the barns. Arrests were frequent,
but no one was seriously injured in
the disorders throughout the city, po
lice reports say.
Traveling Public Inconvenienced.
The traveling public suffered more
inconvenience today than at any time
since the strike started. With sur
face traffic virtually paralyzed, great
thrones sought tiie subway and station
platforms were packed. Several wom
en fainted in the crush and a few per
sons were knocked down in the scram
ble to get aboard trains, already Jam
mrd to the doors.
The commission continued its hear
ings on the strike today, listening to
testimony by William B. Fitzgerald, an
organizer of the Amalgamated Associa
tion of Street and Electric Railway
Employes, who is in charge of the
strike, and by strikebreakers and
others.
6,000 Policemen on Strike Duty.
Nearly 6,000 policemen, according to
the police department, are now engaged
in strike duty. The men have been
withdrawn from suburban precincts
and from departmental and fixed posts.
Traffic policemen have virtually dis
appeared and much congestion occurs
at busy points.
Union leaders declared efforts are
now being made to induce the Brother
hood of Locomotive Engineers to call
a strike among its members employed
as motormen on subway and elevated
lines.
POLICE DOING DUTY
ON ROOFS OF HOUSES
One Train Fired Upon and Several
Others Stoned.
New York, Sept. 11. Policemen
were rushed to Harlem at midnight
for duty on the roofs of houses along
the Third Avenue elevated structure
after one train had been fired upon
and several others bombarded with
bricks and bottles. It is not relieved
any of the bullets struck the train. A
woman and a man on another train
suffered wounds in the head from
bricks hurled through the windows.
Several windows in trains were
smashed.
ITALIAN DREADNOUGHT BLEW
UP IN HARBOR OF TARANTO
Twenty-one Officers " and 227 Men
Perished in the Fire and Explosion
Rome, Sept. 11, 12.55 a. m. A to
tal of 248 lives were lost when the
Italian dreadnought Leonardo da Vin
ci caught fire and blew up in the har
bor of Taranto, Italy, on Aug. 2, says
an official admiralty statement today.
"Twenty-one officers and 227 men
perished In the fire and explosion on
board the warship Leonardo da Vinci
on Aug. 2," the statement reads. "The
first speedy investigation established
that the disaster was not due to faul
ty ammunition nor to a criminal cause
from without the ship. The minister
of marine, however, nominated a su
perior committee of inquiry with the
fullest powers, presided over by Ad
miral cfanevnro, to determine whether
the accident had any connection with
incidents of a criminal nature which
occurred in the country recently apart
from tha navy..
"Another technical committee will
consider the best means of refloating
and repairing the warship."
Miss Alice S. Coleman makes $300,
000 worth of artificial flies a year. She
liae been: in business as a professional
flymaker for more than ten years.
New Yor
Condensed Telegrams
New York milk drivers threaten to
strike.
Detroit has a population of 820.778,
according to the city directory.
The value of enemy ships seized in
Greek ports is 10,000,000 roubles.
The American liner Philadelphia
sailed for Liverpool from New York.
Thirty-eight soup kitchens for small
children will be opened in Berlin Oct.
1.
Baron de Royer de Fraula, president
of the Belgian Red Cross in Holland,
is dead.
Gold coin to the amount of $200,000
was withdrawn from the sub-Treasury
tot shipment to Cuba.
Augusta Teury, of Cleveland, was
killed by electricity while using an
electric .iron in her home.
The three-day carnival of the Far
Rockaway Mardi Gras Association will
be held October 3, 4 and 5.
Edward J. DeCoppet, stock broker,
who died on April 30, last, left an es
tate appraised at $1,561,246.
The American Red Cross shipped
4,195 cases of relief supplies to foreign
countries at war in August.
Dr. Rudolph H. Ezdarf, surgeon in
charge of the United States Marine
Hospital at New Orlean, La., is dead.
Fire destroyed all the buildings in
Paragon Park, the large summer
amusement resort at Nantasket Beach.
Seventy per cent of the students en
rolled for the military training at
Plattsburg were inoculated against ty
phoid. Samuel Hill of Seattle returned to
New York on the American liner St.
Louis, after attending a conference on
relief work in Belgium.
The Birmingham, Ala., bakers' as
sociation announced that, beginning
today, 10 cents would be the price of
a 20-ounce loaf of bread.
Fire destroyed the plant of the Hy
drocarbon Products Co. at Lorillard,
two miles from Keansburg, N. J. The
losjs is in excess of $50,000.
French gold coin to the amount of
$2,800,000 received from Canada was
deposited at the Assay Office to the
credit of J. P. Morgan & Co.
Two hundred and twenty-nine firms
are holding 5,000,000 cases of oggs in
cold storage, according to reports to
the Department of Agriculture.
Senator Henry Cabot Lodgs, speak
ing at Lowell, Mass., criticized Presi
dent Wilson's foreign policy and at
tacked the Adamson Eight-Hour bill.
Gen, Luis Botha, Premier of the
South African Union, announced that
an arrangement had been made to
send 10,000 natives to France for dock
labor.
According to a statement issued by
the Interstate Commerce Commission,
'U t 1.111 utius, uciauug iiu,t)lo Hints
during July show a gross earning of
$177,525,651.
A Federal investigation of the Na
tional Association of Master Bakers'
plan to make the price of small loaves
of bread 6 cents instead of five cents
was started.
Felix Coleman, colored, was arrest
ed at Berlin, Conn., last night, charged
with the murder of Washington Jack
son, colored, at Haverstraw, N. Y., on
Aug. 28 last.
Ebenezer J. Hill of Norwalk, repre
sentative from the Fourth Connecti
cut district, was renominated by accla
mation by the Republican convention
at Bridgeport.
Dr. Herman M. Biggs, State Commis
sioner of Health, will leave for Ro
chester today, to undergo operation for
cancer of the stomach by the famous
Mayo brothers.
Patrolman Thomas Shields, of
Brooklyn, was badly injured when he
fell into a pit in the New York F.ail
ways Co. barns at 50th Street and
Seventh Avenue.
John Herrick, charged with the mur
der of Mrs. Michael Leary of Worcester
while she was a guest at his home at
Gloucester, Mass., on September 3,
pleaded not guilty.
The Government of Panama hai ord
ered the deportation of B. Priam, whom
the British Minister accuses of solicit
ing funds in Panama to foment a rev
olution in India.
William Fogarty, -of the vaudeville
team of Fogarty and Kirk, was in
stantly killed by falling from his room
on the seventh floor of the Somerset
Hotel in New York.
Lieut. Louis A . Merrillat, formerly
star Army athlete, arrived at West
Point from the Mexican border to take
up his duties as one of the coaches of
the Army football team.
Guy Walker was killed by .an elec
trical shock while measuring oil in a
tank car in the freight yards of the
New York, Westchester & Boston Rail
road Co. at White Plains, N. Y.
The executive committee of the
Dairymen's League, the organization
of New York and New Jersey, adopted
a schedule which increases the whole
sale price of milk nearly a cent a
quart.
the Washington navy yard vith the
bodies of nine of the victims of the
Wrecked in Santo Domingo harbor by
a tropical storm.
After evading capture for nearly
two months, George E. Thompson,
who is wanted In Camden, N. J., in
connection with the murder of his
jailer, Isaac Hibbs, July 17, was ar
rested in a lodging house at Boston.
After a chase in a motor boat in
Buffalo harbor, United States Inspect
or Samuel D. Doods and an aid arrest
ed William Riley and Andrew Thomp
son on a cnarge or attempting to
smuggle Chinese into the United
States from Canada.
Ministerial Crisis in Greece.
London, Sept. 12. 2.02 a. m. A Reu
ter despatch from Athens says a min
isterial crisis Is eminent. Premier
Zajmis, the despatch adds, is believed
to have tendered his resignation.
Four Villages Were Captured and Held Despite Heavy
Counter Attacks by the Teutonic Allies
THREW FORCES ACROSS STRUMA AT NE0H0R1
Whether this Offensive by the
Drive Through Bulgaria or is Merely a Manoeuvre to
Throw the British Line Nearer Kavala is Conjectural
In the Maros and Toplitza Valleys the Austrians Are Re
treating Before the Rumanians Berlin Reports the Fail
ure of Russian Attacks in Galicia None of Belligerents
Report Any Great Gain by Their Armies in the Field.
For the first time in many days
Monday proved a day without spec
tacular feature in some of the various
war theatres. On none of the fronts
was" a crushing blow delivered by any
of the belligerents, and none of the war
chancelleries reported any great gain
by their armies in the field.
Probably the' most Significant move
wa.s that of the British in the Struma
region of the. Greek Macedonian front.
Here the British after hard fighting
threw their forces across the Struma
at Neohori NeoChari) at the southern
end of Lake Tahinos (Lake Takinos)
which lies between' Seres and Orfano,
and at several other places near the
lake. In addition four villages were
captured and held despite heavy
counter-attacks by the Teutonic allies.
Whether this offensive, by the Brit
ish means the commencement of an at
tempt at a drive through Bulgaria or
is merely a manoeuvre to throw the
British line nearer Kavala, has not yet
been made apparent. From the west of
the Vardar river to Lake Doiran the
French are violently bombarding Bul
garian positions and on the front held
by the Serbians the Bulgarians have
been compelled to withdraw..
In the Rumanian theatre the Austri-
WOMAN'S TRANSCONTINENTAL
SUFFRAGE SPECIAL TRAIN
To Make Tour in the Interests of
Hughes and Fairbanks.
Chicago, Sept. 11. Word was receiv
ed here todav that the roman's trans
continental suffrae special train car
rying a score or more of well known
women speakers, which is to make a
coast to coast tour of the country in
the interest of Hughes and Fairbanks
will arrive in Chicago from New York
October 6 and leave that night for the
west.
Charles W. Fairbanks, republican
candidate for vice president opened his
speaking campaign today at Spring
field, Mo., and will go from there to
Oklohoma City where he speaks to
morrow. Miss Harriet E. Vittum, in charge
of the Woman's vote bureau at west
ern republican headquarters, held a
long conference with Miss Grimes ox
New York today who is directing the
woman's work of the National Hughes
Alliance.
22D BIENNIAL STATE
FRENCH CONVENTION
Opened in New Britain Yesterday
With a Street Parade.
New Britain, Conn., Sept. 11. The
22d biennial state French convention
opened in this city with a street pa
rade at 9 o'clock today. Following the
parade, a solemn nigh mass was cele
brated at St. Peter's church. The con
vention proper opened at 2 o'clock this
afternoon in St. Jean Baptir,te 'hall
with President Alcide Dery of the state
organization in charge. Mayor George
A. Quigley and Gov. Marcus II. Hol
comb were to address the assemblage.
A banquet will be served at the Hotel
Belcin this evening at 8 o'clock. To
morrow morning a mass will be said
at St. Peter's. The flnai business ses
sion will be held later.
ANNUAL RIFLE MATCHES
NOT TO BE HELD
Because Most of Regulars and Guards,
men Are at the Border.
Washington, Sept. 11. The annual
rifle matches at the Florida state
range, in which teams from the army,
navy, marine corps, national guards
and various military academies usual
ly participate, probably will pot be
held this vear because of the presence
of virtually all of the army regulars
and national guardsmen at the border
and in Mexico. While the war depaA
ment has reached no final decision,
officials said today there was little
likelihood that any troop units would
be authorized to attend. The matches
had teen set for Oct. 20. About a reg.
lment of soldiers are needed to man
the range and act as scorers.
ENORMOUS INCREASE IN
OCEAN FREIGHT RATES
To Be Subject of Inquiry by Interna
tional Institute of Agriculture.
Washington, Sept. 11. Enormous In
creases in ocean freight rates are to be
the subject of inquiry by the Interna
tional institute of agriculture meeting
at Rome, Italy. The state department
was informed today that David Lubin,
the American delegate, who will sail
Sept. 15 for Rome, will stop at London
to secure information there regarding
marine rates.
Pric of Petroleum Reduced.
New Yovii, Sept. ll. The Standard
Oil company of New York today re
duced the price Of refined petroleum
for export 25 points, making eases
10.75 cents per gallon, tanks 4.50 cents
and standard white in barrels. New
York and Philadelphia, 8.35 cents.
British Means an Attempt to
and in the Maros and Toplitza valleys,
ans i nthe Maros and Toplitza valleys,
while south of Hermanstaadt the Ru
manians have occupied the village of
Helimbar Vienna admits a further
withdrawal of the Austrian forces
near Gyergyo.
Heavy fighting continues in Dobrud
ja and there have been small infantry
engagements along the entire Danube
front.
On the eastern front, according to
Berlin, Russian attacks along the Stok
hod river northwest of Kovel and in.
Galicia between the Dniester and the
Zlota Lipa rivers, with Halicz the ob
jective, failed with sanguinary losses
to the Russians.
On the Somme front in France, In
the sectors of Bemy en Santerre, Ver
mandovillers and Chaulnes, violent ar
itllery duels between the French and
Germans took place and German counter-attacks
were repulsed.
The fierce fighting in Turkish Ar-:
menia continues near Ognott, wtth .
the tide of battle still favoring the
Russians, according to Petrograd. In :
Persia the Russians have occupied the
town of Bana, near Sakkiz.
The usual bombardments, and small ;
Infantry engagements have taken!
place on the Austro-Italian front.
EXTENT OF CONTROL .
flY DE FACTO GOVERNMENT
Was Studied by the American-Mexican
Joint Commission Yesterday.
New Lpndon, Conn., Sept. 11. With
the border situation set aside tempo
rarily the American-Mexican joint
commission devoted itself today to de
termining the extent of the control ex
ercised in Mexico by the de facto gov
ernment, the information being sup
plied by the Mexican commissioners at ;
the request o ftheir American con- i
ferees It was stated informally that j
upon the showing made by the Car
ranza government rested the possibill- !
ty that the Washington government i
would revoke warning to Americans to I
stay out of Mexico and would en
courage their return to their properties 1
there
It was explained that the question j
of transportation was vital to any re- ;
sumption of industry in Mexico and to j
show present conditions the Mexican I
commissioners presented figures from I
which the following conclusion was 1
drawn in a formal statement issued to- !
night by Secretary Lane: "
"The date presented by the Mexican
commissioners indicates that the gov
ernment roads are now being operated
with a large degree of regularity and
that the roads owned by private com
panies are being turned over to these
companies, the only exceptions at the
present time being line in the federal
district.one in the state of Hidalgo and
the United Railways of Yucatan."
FIRE IN EXCELSIOR
ON STEAMER BEAVER
Flames Smothered Under Hatches as
Ship Raced Back to Port.
San Francisco, Calif., Sept. 11. Fire
broke out in a shipment of excelsior
in the after-cargo hold of the steamer
Beaver, bound from Portland to San
iFrancisco, when off the Mendocino
coast early Tuesday and was smoth-.
ered under battened hatches while
the vessel raced to this port. When
the hold was opened at the dock thir
teen hours later, smoke poured out
and four sailors were overcome by
smoke while trying to reach the blaze.
Tonight the flames were under con
trol. Officials of the San Francisco
and Portland Steamship company,
owners of the vessel, said the los3
might reach $5,000 and was confined
to that.
There was no panic among the 163
passengers.
POTATO BLICHT HAS MADE
ITS APPEARANCE IN IRELAND.
270 Sub-Districts of the Country Ar
Affected by It.
DlVhHn Tr-olnnfl Tif 11
-. a uiam
blight has made its appearance in Ire
land. Two hundred flnri HftvATtt, onh.
districts of the country are said to be
affected by it. This year preventive
spraying materials are more costly
than . usual and less easily ' procured,
and this, together with wet weather
during July, is believed to have ac
conntea for the rapid spread of the
disease. The congested districts board
nas msiriDuiea ouu spraying machines
to the neonle of tV wMfom' ; oti r.
and it is hoped the disease will soon
oe cnecKea.
Movements of Steamships. ,
New York, Sept. 11. Arrived:
Steamer Antonio Lopez, Barcelona.
London, Sept. 10. Arrived: Steamer
Alaunia, New York.
Liverpool. Sept. lO. Arrived-
Steamer New York, New York.
Oran, Sept, 8. Bailed: Steamer Pa
trla (from Naples) for New York.
Christiansand, Sept. 9. Sailed:
Steamer Oscar II (from Copenhagen)
New York.
Liverpool, Sept. 9. Sailed: Steamer
Tuscania, New York.
