FINANCIAL EDITION
NIGHT
EXTRA
jetting
iErttger
RIGHT
EXTRA
'vol. n. no. 3ii
J?niLADJffiLPITIA, TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 1910
CortnaBT, 1918, t ins rciuo Lznota Cohnkt
PRICE ONE CENT
IULGAR ARMY
0i RETREAT ON
SALONICA LINE
tiiglo-French Roll Back
Foes ivignt vvmji in
Balkans '
UVE WELL UNDER WAY
tiring Forces Said to Have
Abandoned' Forts ot
Kavala
REVEAL DENS OP "DOPE" SELLERS
jUCnAREST, Sept. 12.-The War
lT-.nnounCCd today inav uumanian
tilery had bombarded the Bulgarian
nf Rustchuk In retaliation ior tne
KktlHnjr of Glurgcyo by the Bulgars.
WJKDON, Sept 12. Tho Bulgarian
. wing has Deen ronea uatn. .....
il An1o-French attack In the first bll?
teW baU'8 slnce tno AIlles besan thelr
1ra tn tha Balkans.
Th French War Office this afternoon
unced the capture or Bulgarian trendies
a two-mile front to a depth of half a
In the region north of Majadan. An
al statement from Salonica announcea
M capture of Yenlmah by the French and
WMtlsh,
Pre) dispatches from Athens lert lime
f Jsesbt that the great northward drive of the
suites from Salonica lias begun. After
lrt7-Blx hours of heavy fighting tho Bui
'.ffiri are retreating with the Allies in pur-
M, Athens reported.
On unconfirmed report declared that the
cars are also retreating from eastern
tcedonla, and have evacuated the forts of
avail.
' vSerbl&n, Albanian, French and British
truss are now attacking the German-Bul-
'ftrlin front In Greece, with Italian and
'itasslan contingents ready v to jolnln the
ffenitre. The Bulgars attempted to stem
W Serbian advance southwest of Ostrovo
lake by a counter-attack, but wero checked
in lorown oacic, suncring severely, it was
eiiklallr announcod at Paris. While the
Balfrln wings are being pressed back.
Fresco artillery has opened a big artillery
set la the center around Lake Dolran, as
KKwulrig a French advance up tile Var-
( Te Bulgarian and German War Of flees
tiw'fr have had little to say about the
aewJAKea offensive. The German official
at reported heavy fighting, along the
i Stroma, but declared tho Bulgars have
seen jocceuim.
pa the southeastern ifumanlan front and
I toe western and eastern fronts no events
great Importance have occurred In the
: twenty-four hours. The Turkish War
i made known the presence of Turkish
with the Gcrman-Bulgar armies in
Ming Rumania, and the German War ON
";We claimed further progress for the ln-
toeert.
PETItOaitAD, Sept, 12. Ilumanlan
a Jkrees are now advancing rapidly westward,
''peeoralng to reports reaching here, and are
! tareatenlng,. the enemy troops occupying
sertheastern Serbia.
A- Rumanian drlvn ln(n thin nrtlon of
r Serbia would be directed at the Berlln-
fa-constantInople railway.
i i i
lLCKENSEN LEADS DRIVE
l t, OF TEUTON-BULGAItS INTO
RUMANIA, REPORT SHOWS
; BEIIUN, Sept 12, Field Marshal von
XACkenten Is in command of tho Herman.
K-Sulgarian army invading Rumania through
Debrudja Province. This was revealed to-
' y by the official War Office report on
Lrttons ln the Balkans. It was as fol.
J lews:
i The German-Bulgarian forces, under
eemmand Of Field Marshal von Mack.
(Mn, continued to advance in Do.
-Bruaja.
On the the Macedonia front there
", artillery battles in the Vardar
ctrict Fighting on the Struma re-
jwlted successfully for tho Bulgarian
Uoeps, ,
HM.W Ttlllcro!.. .allt... 1 1 ll
gj Danube preparatory to a crossing of
v"r n anve upon Bucharest, tne
wanlan capital, according to Sofia ad-
T ,""" I"8 today. Along a front
mo miles, extending from Svistova to
", in uourudja, the Bulgar guns are
r ' 7VIBBBBBBrJBBBH
. lei. HIIIHBDksW-' -.-? HIIIIIIBI
sHHBH.lllllllH kPiiBi IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHllllllBk x i IlillllllllllllllllHvB
JHHiillllHHBiiKwWCflP-fl
4ierflHHHHiHFJH:x:: SBhil
9wHHffi9nHlBfsJIiill
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllBllllllHkllllllllllllllllllllllllllHL vHslllllB' JB Jt fcfTV l ft HIIIkK.
ijjjjjjiijjjgiijjjjjjjjjiijjjjjjjmLaiiiBB m ,nav miiBai
TWO GIRLS SHOW
HOW EASY IT IS TO
BUY DOPE HERE
Without Escort, West Phila
delphia Pair Visit Tender
loin ."Snow Party"
THEN INFORM POLICE
Two Girls Show Police
Where Dope Users Meet
WEST PHILADELPHIA girls
obtain evidenco against "dope"
traffickers and cause arrest of three,
women.
Find it easy to buy narcotic drugs
in this city.
Attend "snow" party in rear of
Chinese restaurant and find six
young girls "sniffing" heroin.
Give girls money nnd they buy
"dope" from peddlers.
Visit Eleventh and Winter streets
station and put detectives on tho
trail of "dope" peddlers.
g3T7ra3giTprrsr
Photo by Etkiino L&pom Staff Photographer.
These amateur detectives, who in private life are Misses ucsslo L,ewis ,
and Marian Bryson, of West Philadelphia, made explorations in the
Tenderloin which led to tho arrest of three women who arc said to
belong to tho "drug syndicnte." The girls assert "dope" can be bought
openly in this city.
EX-CONVICT SEERS
REVENGE-FOR JAIL
-SERVICE; IS KILLED
West Chester Man Stole
Ham-Tried to Shoot
Employer
CAPT. MANLEY IN PRISON
Cntlnua eg Pate four, Column Three
'THE WEATHER
WEATHEli FORECAST
'sj'eJSsnsi fe.wi.ssif
.WSBOdflr FOR PENNSYLVANIA:
.fM rt feu davi of the week uHU b fair,
.fttMeay, Btpt. it to Saturday. Sept 5
jjjwjently throughout the wttk, wtth
. .tovol wovemenf.U due to dtvtlon In
( Umttit MtaHe. BtpttmUr 18, and
e penerolly united with" another move-
.'.itra ,ati eceK, delaying that
W one, or two dayt in Us eastward
jJ wotiemrtt It due fftptempsr l,
hmT .1 "V9ra0e movement, bringing
JrT twenty deore eeWsf, with
OFFICIAL MliKnAsiT
PhUfubifiUU and vicinity
I Ploudtl tonLlkt and WedjuuUu.
1 vek change in Umf4tttrei tHt-
";:li: JS zsiitisjpsiits Atf
wir u u lt water , JMp.m.
TCMfEKATtaK AX BACH WpVS
i i I ii i ,i . . , r .i
U & i wTi n 1 7n iijrr'
Louis Phon, forty-five years old;, served
two and one-half years ln the Eastern Peni
tentiary for stealing a ham. All tha tlmo
he was there he had revenge in his heart.
He whispered to his cellmates that when he
was released ha would "get" the man that
sent him there.
On August 16, Phon had served his term.
His partner ln the ham crime, Richard
Qulnn, was released at the same time,
partly because a former employer Inter
ceded for him and wanted him to come
back to work. Qulnn was released and
went back to work. ,
Phon, determined to carry out the thrtat
he had made for two and one-half years,
last night went to the farm house of his
former employer, Captain Charles W. Man
ley, who was clerk of the West Chester
courts at the time Phon was sentenced.
The Captain is now supervisor or roaas in
Westtown township. Phon knocked at the
door and when Captain Manley appeared,
he said, "I want you to come out and talk
to me about some road work."
WAS READY FOR HIM.
Captain Manley did not know who the,
man was. His voice, however,
familiar. -i
"I can't come out and talk to you," an.
swered captain Manley, standing partly be
hind his front door. "If you want to talk
to me you'll hae to come In."
Phon murmured that he would go" around
to the back door. As he passed the side
of the house, Captain Manley, peering out
a side window, caught tho moonlight on his
face. Phon's hat was pulled down over his
ey"Lou," Captain Manley called, "that's
you, Lou, and you are here for no good."
Continued on ree Three, Column Two
aminriAf!
1
FRIGAR IS HELD
FOR GRAND JURY
WITHOUT BAIL
Lawyers for Slayer and
Coroner Clash at
Inquest
BAR GIRL'S TESTIMONY
Hills D, Frlgar, confessed slayer of Ed
ward Boland on HalrplnHurn ln Nelll Drive,
Falrmount Park, August 22, was held with
out ball by Coroner Knight this afternoon
to await tha action of the brand Jury.
The adtlon of the Coroner was taken only
after he had refused permission for Frlgar's
fiancee to testify In his behalf. This deci
sion resulted ln one of the bitterest clashes
heard for a long time In the Coroner's
Court here, In which Congressman John R.
K. Scott, attorney for Frlgar, and Assistant
District Attorney James- Gay Gordon, Jr.,
participated and into which Coroner Knight
was drawn.
The argument was precipitated when Cor
oner Knight, after testimony had been heard
at length from companions of the murdered
man, started to say:
"Tho cause of death ln this case "
COURTROOM GASPS
The courtroom gasped when Congress
man Scott Jumped to "his feet and inter
rupted In a loud voice:
"Before you hold that man in the case
(pointing with his Anger to where Frlgar
sat In the prisoners' dock), I V,now you are
going to hold him for the Grand Jury. I
want you to call an eyewitness, the only
eyewitness In fact, to the affair,"
Here Mr. Scott let his words sink In
for a minute and then pronounced with
dramatic effect:
"Miss Amanda Sykesl" With which he
turned to where a good-looking girl sat
on one side of the crowded room, shel
tered from the eyes of the curious.
"I also hae a man by the name of
Tellln who was assaulted by one of these
Two young West Philadelphia girls, as
suming the roles of amateur detectives, last
night delved Into the secrets of tho under
world and obtained eildence that shoned
the police that otrangcrs can easily pur
chase drugs nnd that tho drug traffic
flourishes openly In Philadelphia.
After associating with "dopes' In numer
ous dives, they presented sufficient cldenco
to District DetcctU es Andrew McClure nnd
James Lcary, of the Eleventh and Winter
streets station, to cause the arrest of three
women.
The professional manner in which the
two young women. Miss Besslo Lewis, of
20S Hamilton avenue. Darby, and Miss
Marian Bryson, of 6221 Do Lanccy street.
conducted their work brought forth much
praise from the police department. Assum
ing the appearance of."dopo-den" frequent
ers, they plunged Into the most blzzare
Chinese restaurants, discovered that the
tratnc was conducted most openly and that
drugs of all characters could be purchased
In almoBt every city block which they
traversed.
ACTED THEIR PARTS WELL
The two girls portrayed their assumed
characters so successful! that they were
soon on intimate terms with the degraded
femininity of the Tenderloin. They bouitht
cocaine and heroin from several pcrsonB
and secured Information that may Tesult In
the complete cleaning up of a den where
narcotic drugs are distributed ln targe
Quantities.
Entering the Tenderloin district shortly
before midnight, the young women went
into a back room on the second floor of a
Chinese restaurant at 919 Race street,
where they were greeted by a half dozen
young women.
The girls both signified their willingness
to take a "sniff." The young women, with
wan and haggard faces, said they had no
more "snow," but olunteercd to get the
young women some If they would furnish
the money to get it with.
DOPE IN PACKAGES
The young women furnished the money
and were presently presented with two
small packages, each about a halt Inch
long and a quarter of an Inch wide. In
side of these small packages, which were
wrapped with three different sets of paper,
a small portion, of white powder was found.
With eager eyes the denizens of tho un
derworld crowded around the two new
members of their clique and clamored for
a "sniff."
Scarcely knowing what they should do
under the circumstances, the two young
women turned and walked to the front of
the restaurant. The denizens of the un
derworld followed the two young women
to the street and only left them when they
entered a waiting autoinoblle. '
The next stop of the amateur Investi
gators was made at the Eleventh and Win
ter streets police station, where they told
Continued on I'at Four, Column One
Continued en fate Four. Column On
NO BONE FRACTURED
. IN KULEFER'S WRIST
Veteran Catcher Will Be Back in
Line-Up After Week of
Rest
Dy CHANDLER D, RICHTER
Dr. John AHoger. club physician of the
Phillies, announced this morning that after
taking a second X-ray examination of Bill
Klllefer's injured right wrist ha had found
that no bones were broken, as he previously
announced. Te photograph showed no
fracture nor splintering of the bpne. How
ever BUI sustained a bad spra(n when he
Jabbed the balj Into1 Heine Zimmerman's
ribs as he tried to steal home In the first
inning of the second game at the Pplo
Grounds last Saturday.
Klllefer will be back in the game, within
a week, according to Doctor Boger's latest
t.tement. When the members of the Phil
lies' club lrned that Klllefer .would be
able toU,ek in tlwe to partlflpate
ln the hard " tb 'ub
ef the attwV Leagw. they yftepery
"wlttwxrt Klllefer, t haicM 'of the
Phillies wta' tb Pww", ?
r4uo. "" -441 BurM WW,M bV9
IT do -vlrtwUr '. A.
MttA. wrto
iloj, m wttl U ""
UBt! be " f wrt lU
Ii LSr DW, Vuem kirn an ovrt
BUSINESS MEN DEMAND
80-CENT GAS INQUIRY
North Philadelphia Association
Urges Mayor tq. Name Invest
' tigating Commission '
A commission of expert engineers to
study the high gas rate Jn this city, with
a view of reducing the price to eighty cents,
Is demanded 'by the North Philadelphia
Business Men's Association In a communi
cation addressed to Mayor Smith and both
branches of Councils.
The business men consider the appoint
ment of a commission as (he only method
by wt)lch a lower gas rate-can be put u
force without the city losing Its profits Of
twenty cents on the dollar, President Bo
dine, of the-,. United das Improvement Com
pany, announced Ills willingness a short
time ago to put the price to eighty cents,
provided the 'city, would renounce its rights
to a rbato of twenty cents On every dollar
This prpvjslon. however, dees not meet with
the fator of the merchants, who desire the
appointment of a commlwilon, so that the
eut price will sot affect the city Treasury.
"The recommendation, oontalned In a reso
lution adopted last night by the. association.
It Is said, presages the beginning of a fght
to be waged by business- organizations
throughout the city for elghty-cent gas.
CoIm of the resolution were forwarded
t(day to seventy-four other bualness men's
jisociatlons, to prepare merottanu through
out the city for the question when it U
Viken up at tlwnrat fall -.meeting cf the
'(Jailed Vuslnees Men's AseeoU'tioa durlag
tha latter part of thUr-uwfiUj,
The resolution, which, Mayor 8mlth wvs
Jet will give his "otot atUimio." reads!
-We consider tha a4viaahWty ei krioctns;
about a rtaueiion m iu wioe ox gas with,
eut the city loslns; Its present proat. TTe
eail upea th Mayor to ooaidr 'he advla
atlllty or AneotaltnaT a mmUm of as-
pfVff H IS Wp IP PP
PENNYPACKER -LEAVES
WIFE MATERIAL ESTATE
Worth $20,000 to $50,000.
Treasured Orders and Heir
looms Go to Children
The material estate of former Governor
Samuel W, Pennypacker, estimated to be
worth between $20,000 and $60,000, was
left to his wife, according to the will which
was probated by Register Robert C Miller
at Norrlstown today.
Upon her death the estate Is to be di
vided into four parts for his four children,
his daughter Josephine to receive the in
come for life from one part to be held
ln trust Explicit directions were, given In
the'.wlll for the distribution of his heir
looms. ' i,
The will, executed May 19, 191C, em
powers his wife, Virginia K. B. Penny
packer, and son, Bevan Aubrey Penny
packer, executors, to sell the real estate,
but state that' it was the former Cover
tier's bope that the home at Pennypacker
Mills, with its appointments and contents,
be maintained and preserved for his chil
dren. 8
To Mia cranason. Kamutl WMtvr
PerinyjMyeker, is bequeathed the ex-Govern
ors deooratloa as a eolonel in the Grand
Army at ifce-Tianubele. mid out of captured
aaaaeei; tlte BW deoorattoa presented to
hUn by Frederick Taylor .Post. Xo. 1, Q,
A. R.; bis deooraUon I tha 'Baronial Or
der of Huaayiaed. ta theftioetaiy of Colo
nial Wan, la tbf Pennsylvania Society fctoaa
of tbe HawhrtUae. in the Soeleiy f tae War
of til, U the PaoUty of the Army at tim
fotojaaq aaa la Ota Netberlatno BocWty l
QUICK NEWS
ST. LOUIS 0
PHILLIES 0
Meadows nut! Gonzales; Alexander and Burns, Qulgloy nnd Byron.
NATIONAL LEAGUE
PITTSBURGH . ...O OOOOOOOO-O 52
BROOKLYN, 1st c O 10 0 2 2 0 1 X- 6 10 O
llvana, Jacobs nnd Tlschcr; rfeffer nnd Meyers.
CHlCAdO .f.K O OOOOOOOO-O 50
BOSTON.lstg O OO01O0OX-13O
Carter nnd Archer; Rudolph and dowdy.
DODGERS WIN-FIRST GAME OF TWIN BILE FROM PIRATES
PITTSBURGH r , h o a e
Warner, 3b..'. 0 12 10
Biebcc,2b 0 0 2 4 0
Carey, cf 0 0 1 0 0
IHnc'irran.lf ... 0 1 1 0 0
Wagncr.sa 0 12 3 1
Schultc.rl 0 0 0 0 1
W.Johnston, lb.... 0 0 11 2 0
Fischer, c... .........; 0 2 S 3 0
Evans.p.v..,.....-) Q 0 Q 2 O
Jacobs, p A-.v. Q0000
Willcr.p..... 0 0 0 0 0
BROOKLYN-, r
J. Johnston, cf 0
Daubcrt.lb 0
Stengel, rf 0
Wheat, '., 1
Culsliaw,2b l
Gctz,3b 1
Olson, ss
Meyers, c......-i
Pf effef, p ...-... .. . ,
a
0
0
0
0 0
G 0
DEATH .OF TWO
LAID TO 'GREEN'
MAN IN STRIKE
New York Motorman Loses
Control of Car on
Hill
CRASHES INTO JITNEY?
Carmen May Decidq on Only,
Sympathetic Walkout
of '70,000
Totals C10 27 13 0
Totals 0 S 24 15 2
' " TODAY'S RACING RESULTS
First Hnvre da Grace race, selling, 3-year-olds and up, 6 fur
longsMurphy, 111, Warscher, $3.30, ?3.10, ?2.30, won; Plumose,
111, Kcogh, ?3.40, ?2.00, second; Arahrose, 117, Metcnlf, $3.30,
third, Time, lHS 1-5.
I
SEVERAL REPORTED DEAD IN DU PONT EXPLOSION
FAIR CHANCE, Fa., Sept. 12. An explosion wrecked the du
Font powder works near hero this afternoon. Tlrst reports indicated
several men have been caught by the blow-up.
. TWO U. S. FIRMS REMOVED FROMBLACKLIST ,
LONDON, Sept. 12. The British Foreign Tiade Dcpaitmenl an
nounced today that the names of two American firms and one In
dividual hatfTjcen lemoved from the trade blacklist as followaVElcctro
Bleaching v Glass Company, of Nlagaia Falls, 17. Y.; Graccnhorst &
Co., of Now York, nnd Richard Neuhaus. Ncuhaus is connected with
the Electro Bleaching Glass Company.
'V
HUGHES TO SPEAK AT UNION LEAGUE IN OCTOBER
Charles 1'. Hughes will make his first campaign address In 1'ermsjlvnnla Sep
tember 27. Ho will speak on that day in Pittsburgh. Mr. Hughes will speal; in this
city some tlmo In October at the Union league. '
MAINE ELECTION BOOSTS STOCKS
NEW VOniC, Sept, 12. Wall street used the results of the Malno election as
an Incentive for buying stocks today and trading on the Stock Exchange nas active,
business during the first hour being at the rate of more than 2,500,000 for tho full
five-hour cession. Many stocks sold at new high marks. United States Steel
common was the leader. General Motors sold at 625 a share, tho highest price,
with one exception, at which a itoclc ever sold on tho New York Stock Exchange,
that exception being Northern Pacific, which sold at 1000 on May 9, 1901. General
Motors Jumped 35 polnt3 In all.
NEW YOIUC, Sept. 12. Tho nrsCTragedy
of the traction str"ke opened the sixth day
of the struggle between the carmen's union
nnd the transportation companies of the
city.
A trolley car operated by a "grttn"
motorman got beyond control as It started
down a grado at 174th street and Boston
road, crashing into two Jitney busses. Two
persons wero killed nnd nine injured. Pour '
of tho Injured w ere so badly hurt that their
death Is believed to be only a matter of a
few hours.
Almost as soon as the car left the barn
It was noticed that tho motorman was tin
ablo to control It Several passengers on
board clung to their seats in terror. The
car gained momentum as It swept down
the grade and after traveling three blocks,
Jumped the track at a curve.
Tho runaway bar first struck a Jitney
owned by Julius Grossman, in which there
were three passengers. The automobile
was capsized as the car struck It, and
Grossman and his passengers were thrown
to the pavement.
TWO JITNEYS SMASHED
Continuing Its way, the car smashed Into
a Jitney owned by -Charles E. Gates, a
lumberman, of Unlonport, who was taking
ten of his employes to work. Gates and his
passengers were thrown out if th auto
mobile and smashed to the ground.
The car finally stopped with a crash
against a water stand pipe on the side
walk. Hurry calls were sent for ambulances aa
soon as the double disaster occurred. One
of tho lctlms was Jammed under the for
ward trucks of the car, dead. Ills body
was extricated by a fire company called to
the scene.
. The Injured, flvo suffering with fractured
jjkuU8vwere rushed torForUham Hospital,,
but one died In tha hmbulance
Owing to nn alarming Increase n vio
lence attending tho operation of surfaee
and elevated cars In defiance of the traction
strikers. Chief Inspector Schmtttberger Is
sued orders to the police to use their pistols.
Tho orders were flashed over the police
wires following a series of attacks on cars
in Harlem and on the zast and West
Sides. , .
WILT SHOOT 'TO KILti
"Don't be afraid to use your guns and
shoot effectively. If necessary, to set these
assailants," Schmlttbcrger commanded.
"These attacks hae got to stop and It is
uu to the police to stop them."
The police officials were angered by the
fact that only ono arrest was made during
six; attacks that were made within an
hour at different points In the strike zone.
Strlko sympathizers who pelted elevated
trains from rooftops on Second, Third and
Eighth avenues fled to cover before the
police reserves could catch them. Serious
panlo nmbng the passengers occurred as
the missiles lilt the cars. j
The single arrest made during this out- N
burst of disorder was that of a man giv
ing his name as Edward Keene, And who J
said he was a striking motorman. He la
accused of leading an attack bn a. car at '
Columbus Circle.
BROOKLYN FINDS E
' EVANS EASY MARK
BRITISH VIOLATE U. S. NEUTRALITY, MANILA REPORTS
WASHINGTON, Sept. 12. Brigadier General Liggett, commander of Amer
ican military forces ln the Philippines, today reported to tho War Department facts
that show a clear violation of American neutrality when a British destroyer held
up tho American steamship Cebu off Carabao Island early yesterday. General
Liggett reported that the Cebu was a mile nnd a half insldo American territorial
waters when she was stopped and boarded. Tho official report was laid before
Secretary of State Lansing by the Wjir Department.
GERMANS DISSATISFIED WITH FOOD DISTRIBUTION
TllSllLIN, Sept. 12. The German people are becoming more and more dissatis
fied with the now Government food department. The optimistic statements of Herr
von Bntockl, the new "food dictator," about tho food dgtdoolc led peoplo to believe
that by fall conditions would be greatly improved. But Instead of becoming more
plentiful food supplies are becoming more and more organized, until within a short
time, If the distribution of cards is continued, food will bo on an absolute ration
basts,
BRITAIN LOOKS TO CHINA FOR AFTER-WAR TRADE
"WASHINGTON, Sept. 12. Great Britain's plans for her trade, when peace
comes, embody the extension upon still broader lines of her tremendous commer
cial power In China. The British Government has formally notified the Chinese
Foreign Offlco of the establishment of tho British Chamber of Commerce, at Muiideri,
the object of which Is "the arbitration' of disputes between Its members and Chinese
merchants, the adoption of standard contract forms and the protection of British
Interests as uffectcd by t,lie Imposition of Ukln and other Internal taxes."
i 'i i.ii.
RUSSIANS HARASS JE,WS AGAIN, BERLIN DECLARES
BERLIN, Sept. 12. The Overseas News Agency today quotes the Itusslan news,
paper Byetsch da stating that persecution of the Jews in Petregrad and Woeow
has been resumed, the Russian police encouraging; the mobs,
Dodgers Score One in Second
and Two in Fifth Against
Pirates J
FRANCE LAUNCHES HER LARGEST STEAMSHIP
T, NAXlHItB, Franco, Sept 12. The iflant French, liner JParls. tbe largest
shift ever bulk In France, was launched here this afternoon, It will ply betwea
New York and France when completed. The ship has k HsplncBent of if. tews
and wiy earry M paeettt, It has 4t,m horswaawer a4 is ?T Ut tamr.
i
CONDITION OF WILSON'S SIST1W UNCHANGED
NKW LONDON 8$t. 12. The condition of Mrs, Aunla JC Mow, nislilinl
Wlleoa's kistar, was uaekang4 today. Physiciani adviaad tka Praaldant not to
lav Mas London I timaltJy. His yUiis ara awaiting-a paasststo ctuav In his
sistarv egMWl Ms ay. TU FraaMaus jsjea Mrs. wnson ramajnm tha yaatit
WU t
Muetarar 4 M(M ! la tmwb
Uaha4aiHf
EBBETS'S FIELD, Brooklyn, N. Y Sept J,
12. Brooklyn got a long lead on Pitts-. '
burgh In tbe first game of today's double
header thanks to the Ineffective 'pitching of ,
Evans, In (he second inning, Brooklyn
scored on Wheat's triple and an infield out.
This was tho the twenty-fourth successive
game In which 2tach had hit safely.
The Dodgers added two more, runs tn the
fifth on threo hits nnd two passes. In this
Inning Jacobs relieved ISvans.
FIRST INNING
Warner was thrown out by Cutshaw.
BIgbee fanned. Carey walked and was
caugst steallpg, Meyers to Cutuliaw, Ne
runs, no hits, no errors.
J. Johnston struck out, Wagner threw
out Daubert. Stengel filed to Hlnchmaa.
No runs, no hUt no error.
SECOND INNING
Hlnchman'filod to tel. Wagaer sin
gled to left. Schulte M4 J6 BaubeVt, CW
ehaw threw out W Johnston. NO nmav one- -hjt.
no, errors.
Wheat tripled to right center, making the
twenty-fourth straight game In wMfe
lias hit safely. Cwafcawwas 'ltowsi
by BIgbee, Wheat soared, Warner
out Gets. Dlaea f anted to Warner.
run, one Mt, h errors,
TKtito ntmsm
Fischer waa Wt by a Mte baB.
hit lata a uhmm way. iisjmi ,to
Dawbttt. ' Wasnar 'waa tftrmrn os
PfeCer. fo nww, aa , error.
"Ctttef Hare trttatea to left -Oentor.
te thrtw wK Wsr. -yr bets-
at third. Mayers waa caugiit napplaa
tfejrd. rtassaW la Warner, wagnw ta
out JT, JeAMas. Ma ruru one kK,
FOUrtTH INK1NO
Wheat-Vet Wabees fly rotcattsr re
Carey at Brat Hliu.hinan aluatiial to
Waarnwr ipv1 u cutahaw Xj niue.
hit ik erran.
Kaas threw out Usubou tttil
safe er Wasjuat e w!4 thrvw tTkeM
a. kaaiM & W Johaatvo. Maagfsjill
jp m ft mm.
