'1
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair and warmer to-day; to-morrow,
partly cloudy; variable winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 715 loweit, 30.
Detailed weather, malt and marine report on pate 10.
IT SHINES FOB, ALL
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 12.
NEW YORK, TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 1916. Copyright,, by Sun Printing and PubUthlng AuocUMvu.
ONE CENT
In tlrrater New Ynrk,
Jersey City and Newark.
t Elsewhere
i TWO CKMTa.
REPUBLICANS SWEEP MAINE;
WILSON POLICIES REJECTED;
DEMOCRATS LOSE BY 13,000
BRITISH CROSS
STRUMA IN NEW
BALKAN DRIVE
After Severe Fighting They
Cnptnre Five Towns in
Greek Macedonia.
TRADES STRIKE TO INVOL VE 60,000;
INTERBORO ACCUSED OF PEONAGE;
POLICE STOP ATTACKS ON 2 LINES
Jlfllikon Elected Governor
mi'l Full Congress Dele
gation Chosen.
)!c(; I IJilCFDDY FAILS
BY MAKGINOF400
Senator Johnson's Defeat a
.Mortal lw" to
Administration.
BOTH BRANCHES OF
LEGISLATURE WON
G. 0. P. Landslide Breaks
Into the Enemy's Local
Strongholds.
'oi)iunp, Mc Sept. 11. Republi
cans have swept Maine from Klttcry
to I.iMport nnd up to tlio Canadian
tonler. The repudiation of President
WiNon nnd his policies Is emphatic.
The Republican plurality In the State,
when the returns arc all In. probably
i!l be more than 13,000. The. ltepub
1 can- elect their candidate for Gov
ernor. Carl V.. Mllllken: they elect both
ttflr candidate for the United States
Smis'c. a solid Republican delegation
tn the Houe of Representatives In
Washington nnd carry both branches
ti the State Legislature
The t.ntrl Retoras.
.-......IpM tijs-4HPt nlt
Of X
Ut"' ui 633 missing, lepresenling forty
io i anil a few precincts In this city,
fru fc Governor late to-nlghl stood :
Ml.H'.en. 77.015.
(M-.!, 6I.S97.
I i-nl or Republican candidate, 12.148.
I t.itid Stat" Senator Charles F.
rJoh-iMn was defeated by Frederick
Hale, ion of tjie ex-Senator, whose mar
rn vms approximately 9,800 votes.
For the short term seat In the Senate
h: cr i!ernor Bert M. Fcrnald de-
'ai
J(..M
Ktnneth C. M. Sills,
i College, with 12,000
dean of
votes to i
Uoodnll won from U A. Stevens
First Congressional district by
In the Second CongTess nis-
tt r HI precincts out of 147 give:
'I White. Jr. .). 20.670.
II J McGIUIcuddy (D.). 20,197.
M tv for White. 473.
r iiressman John A. Peters retained
H -rat. defeating John E. Bunker In
th- Th id (liftrlet by 4.000.
Ira (1. Hersey defeated Leonard A.
rn-rec In the "Fourth Congressional dls
tr' t with a plurality of 5,000.
rraetlrally the entire Progressive vote
t'l l.s.-jUG In 1914 wan cast was cast for
tie Republican candidates.
Vntes In 1012 an 1D14.
Tin; vote 'n 1012 and 1914 was as fol-
- I'RESIDENT. 1912.
Wilfon (Dem) B1.11S
Tjft Hiop.) 26.545
Iton.evelt U'ro.) 48,493
itcpulilleans and rrogresslvcs over
I'moorats, 14,92.1.
COVKHNOB, 1914.
Tunis (Pern.) 62,039
Halnci (Rep.) 58.862
"iar.lner (I'ro.) 18,225
llepubllrans and Progressives over
Democrats, 15,048.
GOVERNOR. 1916.
1 With 10 districts out of 635 missing:
SinUkcn (Rep.) 77,045
Curtis (Ucm.) 64,897
Republicans over Democrats, 12,148.
Democratic Lines Broken.
In addition the Republicans
elect
CouMy Attorneys. Sheriffs and other lal
Zvl Vi S.,.. iMi in their President Wilson motored from Long
hiding all the places that were In their morning, by
btmocratlc Ines at many Polnf. 'nc'" central station boarded a private car
hs fomo which the enemy fondly sup-, d ftt h dltponl by How'ar(, EIott
V Impregnable. preadent 0f the New Haven Railroad.
In short. It is a clean sweep for the Home s cummlngs, vice chairman
P.pub lcan ticket. The Democratic man- Qf ,he Uemcoratlo Nutona, committee,
Hrs to-night still cling to a hope that travelled nart or lhe way wth hlm, At
Daniel J. McQllllcuddy. the Democratic ,h(J N(w Haven ,,. tno pre8idcnt
ettid date for Congress In the Second ,a,ke(1 wh Mr Elott a few mlnut
:trlct. !i- pull through, but Republl- and ()nook hands wth rnMroa(J em.
tan figures Indicate that Wallace H. plo,.ees, A cr0Wli wated the party here,
hltc, Jr, Republican, has carried the but , ppiuent 'paid no attention to
trlrt hy 400. lt To-night he made no Inquiries about
The weather favored the Republicans, j t(j0 jjanB election,
It - is, from the Republican viewpoint,' After Beeinir hl ulster Mr. Wilson re
an ld il election day clear, sunny skies, cctved ,he three American members of
not ... suggestion of a storm In any.tll0 Jo)nt Mexican Commission, who
'iJiftf-r, Jun such a day as the Repub- caled to p3y t,er respects and express
l.pin 1-mlers had declared would brine lhe(r gympathy. Other relatives of Mrs.
! u tiiinper vote. That was all they,nowe here to-night are Joseph R. Wil
tor They felt confident If the voters Kon ot uaitlmore. Mrs. Anne Cothran
JWM iw Rot to tho polls the result would nnd M1 Anno Cothran of Philadelphia,
l i H'i ililiean victory. a granddaughter and two sons.
rrntiJ Hani, the State chairman, said The President has cancelled several
Ift li.t I ..V .Un, 1n .uluVinH tn . I . I . . 1 1 ...t.. 1 1. 1
, i i.i-iiikii. .w
"k Mia M'N tor tno way in wnitii n
nir i met the Republican cause In
i'unf to the people of the country.
"Tim vote tn-day," he tiald, "means
l Ma no will be for Hughes and Falr
lr.ks in .Vovember, That Is beyond all
MI)l "
Th-e lias been no dodglntr of Issues
J ll: lirpulilkMns, Ham declared. They
lid forfi'd the fiKht. The reMilt leaves
'I loophole throiwh which the Democrats
"n i(pi((, thn State's rejection and re
I'lil.nl'.n of the Wllmn Administration
and Mil, lHiiiocrntlc. CnngreMi.
It'furiri' to lhe size of tho Rcnubllcan
&&, the state chairman said: "It
a line day and a good vote, and tho
wrd w,h w th us."
Ttie il. ffat of Senator Charles F,' Johni
ftr I a Hlnrt.il lilnw in tho Demnrrnpv In t
Hah,
a ll l .. . -I
1 I
li.M effort of tlv horde of
ri-Gir.it r.ifi.. iw.i.i,.u n.v,inn, nm.i,i.
,l,l(.-l r, ...,.,'IHKb WlllllMIM,
""it "lis nnd incinlioiH of Congress sent
"ll 'I .'late by the Wilson leaders had
l'-n i ui reward to nave Johnon. '
" n p filleted by Ida friends that ho
"'Jld mi, at least 5,000 votes ahead of
t mill fhnr. I. wiiu iiMprti1.
ou!d i , hi,,, though nil the rest of the
Continued on Fourth Page.
f " LHSf
vataJHKPaBBBLLlH 1 aHaBLLLIIIIH
?'if'3SK I ' aMaLiBBLLLLH
'M.'T VwSbBBLbbbbbH I jBLBLtSBBBBLLsl
bk' v wLLLLLnsssB l.alBLLLL9LLLLLLLfl
rhotoi by Bam News Service.
Two of the Republican winners in Maine Carl E. Milliken,
elected Governor, at the left, and Bert M. Fernald, Senator.
'DON'T SEE HOW WE CAN LOSE;
HUGHES COMMENT ON MAINE
Chairman Willcox Declares the Result Forecasts a Re
publican Triumph in November Robert
Bacon Is Also Jubilant.
Syracuse, Sept. 11. Charles R
Hushes was tremendously (ratified when
he learned the results of the Maine elec
tion to-night: He got the news while
he was the guest of honor at a banquet
"It looks mighty food," he said when
a message from The Bcn estimated the
Republican majority 15,000. "I don't
see how we can lose now."
Mr. Hughes would not explain whether
i. . , l . ,. . . . -
" .mcw rc.cr ... ,
the Maine election alone or to the result
throughout the nation In November. He
said he would have no more explicit ,
statement to make to-night. i they burst Into cheers.
"The result means the election of It Is known that Mr. Hughes, despite
Hughes In November," said William It. j Ills refusal to analyze the returns In
Willcox, chairman of the Republican Na-j detail, Is doubly pleased because he con
tlonal Committee. "It Is splendid news." slders the result a vindication of hU
Robert Dacon, former Ambassador to campaign methods.
WILSON AT BEDSIDE OF
SISTER IN NEW LONDON
Spends Night on Mayflower
After Meeting: Mexican
Commission.
New London, Conn., Sept. 11. Presi
dent and Mrs. Wilson came to New Lon
don to-day to be at the bedside of the
President's sister, Mrs. Annie E. Howe,
I who Is critically 111 of peritonitis. Mrs.
I Howe was reported to-night to be rest
ing comfortably, but her recovery is not
expected. 1
1 Late to-night the President went
aboard the yacht Mayflower, expecting
to return to his sister's hotel In the
morning. His plana are Indefinite, but
It Is believed that he will stay here at
daU'esB
least until a change In the patient's con-
political coniercnrcH, iie win pruuuuiy
mnite several speeches beforo non-poiui
cal gatherings In addition to those to he
delivered nt St. Louis September 20 and
Baltimore September 24. Mr. Cummlngs
wants him to speak In Connecticut. All
speeches will bn mado as near Loiin
Branch as possible.
CHICAGO'S So. LOAF SMALLER.
Bakers Decide to Cut Slse Instead
of nailing Price.
Ciiicaoo, Sept, 11. A reduction bv
one-third In tho size of the live, cent
loaf of bread appeared to-night to have
been decided upon by Chicago bakers.
Instead of an Increase In price.
rltv nfflelnls announced that tinkers
ha(1 purchased large quantities of munlc
Ipal stamps ror nait-pounu inaves, in
stead of the three-quarter pound stamp's
formerly used.
United States District Attorney Clyno,
who Is Investigating the bread situation
with a view to possible prosecution under
the Sherman anti-trust law, said to
night that the weight of the five cent
I loaf had been reduced by some Chicago
bakers a week ago.
France, who attended the banquet to Mr.
Hughes to-night, was greatly pleased by
the news from Maine, When shown a
telegram from The Sun correspondent
he exclaimed:
"Fifteen thousand I That's glorious.
Twelve thousand would have been fine.
Fifteen thousand Is great."
Returns were received from time to
time nt the dinner, which was attended
by business men of Syracuse. Even the
earliest bulletins Indicate.! a Republl-
van wiiuti uiiu i-aiu une was vucereu
a )t was read
When the prediction of n K..O00 plu-
rallty was announced Just before the
diners left the hall at about 11 o clock
R0CKWELL GETS HIS
4TH GERMAN AVIATOR
American Downs One Craft,
Then Fiphts Two Other
Aeroplanes.
Special Cablf ftttpatch to Tim Scv
London, Sept. 11, Tho morning
official report from Paris describing the
forty air battles of Saturday, ends,
"another enemy aviator was downed
within the first German lines near
Vauquols." This was tho fourth officially
recorded victory of Klftln Rockwell, the
American aviator with the French army.
The next will put hlm in the class whose
names are quoted officially.
Rockwell was Hying alone in his ma
chine over the Verdun sector when he
sighted a two seated Oerman aeroplane.
He attacked at an elevation of 9,750 feet,
killing the German gunner with the first
volley of his machine gun and probably
hitting the pilot, who tried to reach land.
Rockwell followed the German machine
down to within 6.000 feet from the
ground, keeping up his fire,
Two German aeroplanes then came to
their comrade's rescue, and nttacked
Rockwell from above, putting him In a
very dangerous position. Seeing that
his first adversary was well finlbhed,
Rockwell turned on the two others and
fired all his remaining cartridges. He
got away safely, though his machine
W88 hit many times.
The first German fell right In the
enemy first line trenches, plainly visible
to a French battery, which quickly
smashed It to fragments.
DAD, 100, SPANKS SON, 60.
"Vonnnster," ChnrKed With Dis
orderly Conduct, Goes to Jail.
Kuzahetii, N. J Sept. 11. William
McCormlck, 10ft years old, of 46 Jef
feison avenue, had his gray haired son,
William McConnlcIt, Jr., over 60 years
old, taken to police court this morning
on a charge of disorderly conduct. The
son Immediately charged his father with
assault,
"My boy," said tho centenarian, who
conducts a boarding house In this city,
"persisted yesterday In annoying tho
boarders. He continued after I had
taken hlm across my ltnee nnd spanked
him. Ho has alwnys respected mo till
lately, when he thought my old ngc
mado me powerless to enforco obedience.
Ho knows better now, and I want the
court to uphold me."
Judge Owen P. Mahon sent William,
Jr., to tho county Jail for five days,
"It Is no disgrace to he spanked by
my father," tho "youngster" told the
Judge, "but I wish ho would relent and
not compel me to go to Jail for a boyish
prank. Ho Is too old to appreciate."
Tropical Storm Heads This War.
WASHINGTON, Sept. 11. Reports to
tho Weather Hureau to-day Indicated that
a tropical storm Is centred east of the
Uahania Islands and probably will move
northwest, causing gales on the south
Atlantlo coast within twenty-four hours.
BULGARIANS NOW PUT
BETWEEN TWO FIRES
Russians Pressing From
North and French From
Salonica Base.
SARRAIIS ARTILLERY
BROUGHT INTO ACTION
Invaders Also Forced to
Give 3Iore Ground to
Attacking Serbians.
Ixindon', Sept. 11. British forces
have begun the expected Macedonian
offensive. Crossng the Itlvcr Struma
In northeastern Greece It has captured
five villages nnd taken prisoners after
Fcvcre fighting with the Bulgarians.
This appears to be the beginning of a
thrust to press Bulgarln between at
tacks from north nnd south.
This belief Is strengthened by the
French official statement that nrtlllery
fire about Lake Dolrnn was very
heavy, nnd that the Hulgars have
given up more positions of their line
opposite the Serbians. A general nt
tack by Gen. Snrrall's troops now
WOUltl pit! thd Bll'niurn bctWevll tills
attack and the Russians and Ru
manians to the north, In southern Do
brudja, and also would relieve the
pressure on the Rumanlnns.
River Crossed ITndrr Fire.
The British official statement announc
lr.g the new offensive to as follows :
Our detachments crossed the Struma
under fire yesterday afternoon at
Neohorl and several places about Lake
Tahlnos.
After considerable opposition we ex
pelled the enemy from the following
villages : Oraormon. east of Uajrak
tarmah, upper and lower Gudell and
Nevolyen. The enemy counter at
tacked strongly, but was repulsed with
tho loss of prisoners, the number of
which has not been ascertained.
An earlier French statement an
nounced that the British were also at
tacking Karabjabes, another village on
the eastern bank of the Struma, and
that the Bulgarian defence was ob
stinate. teres the Objective.
The point where the British crossed
the Struma 1 forty mlle northeast of
the fortified camp of Salonica. Last
month the Bulgars rapidly occupied the
Greek territory east of the Struma,
pushing Bouth without real opposition
from the Entente Allies, nnd reached
tho Egean coast, occupying tho Greek
towns of Seres, Drama and Kavala.
Thta put them on the flank of the Entente
lines In the west, but did not serlotmly
endanger these lines.
Seres Is at the end of the main road
along which the British attack Is di
rected, but the valley of the Struma is
one of the two routes of Invasion of
Bulgaria. The Vnrdar Valley has been
considered tho better route because of
Its railroad and more level country.
Gen. Sarrall has now somo 700,000
men of alt nationalities nt Salonica
and along his lines In northern Mace
donia with which to strike Bulgaria
from the south, and the Russians are
pouring heavy forces into tho Dohrudja
of Rumania for a stroke from the
north.
A USTRIANS IN RETREAT.
Romanians Contlnnr Their Drive
Into Transylvania.
Lonoon, Sept. 11. Rumanian ad
vances In Transylvania are reported
to-night, while there Is silence In all
statements and despatches about the
progress of the Important and heavy
fighting In the Dobrudja, where Tutrn
kan and Slllstrln have fallen to the
Germans and Bulgarians.
Austrian troop nie still In retreat
before the Rumanians In northern
Transylvania, whero the Invaders have
crossed tho upper valley of the River
Maroa and the River Toplltsa nnd still
drive ohcad.
Tho Rumanians who occupied retro
seny, Just across the border In Tran
sylvania from the Rumanian northwest
ern frontier, have taken 300 prisoners,
guns and munitions In fighting west of
Merisor, which Is twelve miles northwest
of I'etrnseny.
The Rumanian ofllclnl statement re
ceived here says that south of "Sublu"
the Rumanians occupied the village of
llcllinbar, known ns Schelletberg." The
village of Scliellenberg Is only throe
miles from Hermannstadt, called In
Rumanian Slbliu. Its evacuation was
admitted by the Austrlans soon after
Rumnnla entered the war.
The Budapest newspaper Az Rut says
the Bulgarians who Invaded the Doh
rudja have taken practically all tho
southern strip of the Dohrudja which
Bulgaria had to give to Rumania after
the second Balkan war.
Anti-war demonstrations in Bucharest
nre reported by the Cologne Onsrffe,
which says thousands "bf Socialists and
worklngmen attended nn opon air meet
ing and denounced the attitude of Pre
mler Bratlano. The Berlin Aolrnlmiiefper
goes further and says that a serious rev
olutlon has broken out In the Dohrudja
against the Rumanian troops there, and
that Bulgarian peasants with a Bul
garian flag have fired on Rumanian gen-
Continued on TMrd Pag.
60 BIKE POLICEMEN
STOP BOHBARDERS
Squad Breaks Up Attacks on
Street Cars Along Green
and Red Lines.
MOTORCYCLISTS OX .7011
Arrests, Assaults and Police
Court Sentences Frequent
During Day.
Police Headquarters experimented yes
terday with still another method of
fuelling strike disorders. Having kept
Hie department automobiles, the reserves
and the patrolling ofneers on the Jump
from mornlnr until night, Commissioner
Arthur Woods decided that a squad of
sixty bicvcln policemen might be able to
take a hand.
Tho bicycle men were sent out In the
morning and they were very useful In
breaking up bombarding parties along
the lines of the green and red cars. In
the afternoon a party of motorcycle men
reported at Headquarters and went out
on the s.imo work.
Now that a large proportion of the
police force is on strike duty the work
of keeping so many men mobilized and
nt the same time distributed Is becom
ing arduous for the Headquarter staff.
Brooklyn Police Are Basr.
In Brooklyn the police already nre
busy erlfylng registration addresses,
and that work must be started on this
side of the river before long. All in all
the bluecoat Is In for a busy time.
Reports of a wulkmit nn ,
"the chauffeurs and conductors ot the
ruin avenue dus lines, controlled by the
Interborough Rapid Transit Company,
Increased tho prospects of trouble.
Ariests, assaults and police court sen
tences were reported frequently yester
day. The most spectacular disturbance
took place at Eighty-ninth street and
Third avenue, when a crowd of strikers
quitting a meeting In Lyceum Hal,
near by, awnrmed aboard a surface car
and hauled the motorman and conductor
out. I'atrolman Kremelvlcw of the
Rath Beach police station, although
aided by another bluecoat, was unable to
quell the rioters.
The crew of the surface car were
dragged Into the union meeting at Ly
ceum Hall and made to listen tn the
strikers' speeches.
Mhots Fired at "L" Train.
Strike sympathizers fired bullets,
bricks and bottles at Third avenue "I,"
trains In the neighborhood of the lOfith
treet station early this mornlni;. Some
body took three shots at a northbound
train as It pulled out of the station.
They were fired from a roof near 107th
trcet.
A brick hurled from a building near
ltlth street went Into a car of a south
hound train nnd struck Mrs. Mary Brad
ley. 4!. of H9 East ISSth street, cutting
her scalp. She was treated at the Har
lem Hospital.
Windows of the forward car of nn
other train were sma'shed by a brick
near 105th street. Capt. James Hrady
of the East 104th street station stationed
policemen on roofs to prevent further
attacks.
Klvo men were arraigned yesterday
Wore Magistrate Krotel In the Yorkvllle
mllce court, charged with felonious as
ault on Patrolman Carty of the East
''Ifty-first street police' station. They
erc held for trial.
Magistrate McQuade In the West Side
police court fined John Durkln of No.
'Ill East Thlrty-Blxth street, a striking
notorman of the New York Hallways
"ompany, 10 tor attacking another mo
orman who stayed on the Job. Two
ither men were fined by Magistrate Ten
Kyck in the West Farms police court for
calling "scab" at subway workers.
FIFTH AVE. BUSES NEXT.
Drivers Attend Strike Meeting; of
Interbnrnnich Employees.''
Interborough and New York Railway
Company strikers attempted yesterday to
get tho employees of the Fifth Avenue
Coach Company to go out In sympathy.
As soon as the men came In from their
runs they were Invited to attend strike
meeting and many of them accepted,
but the service was not diminished.
According to Richard W. Meade, presi
dent of the Fifth Avenue Coach Com
pany, the majority of the men are
against striking, and it will take nothing
less than violence to get them to leave
their buses. The company Is, however,
prepared for nny emergency, nnd though
acknowledging the possibility of a walk
out believes most of tho men will stick.
BORDEN TO TRY ARCTIC AGAIN.
Chicago Sportsman Leaves Alaska
for "rattle,
NoMR, Alaska, Sept. 11, John Borden,
tho wealthy sportsman of Chicago, whose
power schooner (lre.it Bear was wrecked
on Pinnacle Rock, In Bering Sea, on
August 10, left for Seattlo on the steam
ship Umatilla yesterday,
Borden says that ho will build an
other boat next winter, engage Capt.
Louis L. Lane, his partner of this year,
ns commander, and set nut on another
Bering Sea nnd Arctic Ocean cruise.
FIRE ON FRUITER ZACAPA.
Mart In Caller tin rues Have
Narrow Escape.
A fire which Illumined tho waterfront
started last night In the cook's galley
of the United Fruit Linn steamer
Kacapa, moored at Pier 18, East River,
and burst through tho boat deck floor
ing. The blaze wan discovered by a
checker, who was superintending the
loading or tne arter hold for tho vessel's
sailing on Thursday to tho West Indies.
He turned In nn alarm, to which tho
flreboat New Yorker and four com
panies responded. Several barges tied
alongside the Zacnpa were cut loose by
their crews nnd drifted Into the East
River, whero tugs caught them. The
firemen subdued the flames after an
hour's work, with a damage of about
11,000.
79 FEWER TRAINS
IN SUBWAY SERVICE
Elevated Puts on More Cars,
While Snrfaec Lines Make
Toor Showing.
207 GREEN TROLLEYS OUT
First Avenue Unable to Oper
ate Any All Put in
Barns at Night.
For the first time since the strike
started the subway yesterday began to
lag In Its service. Between 9 A. M. and
7 P. M. seventy-nine fewer trains were
run below the surface than on Friday,
when normal traffic was reported. De
spite the assertions of President Theo
dore 1". Shonts that the greatest effort Is
being made to take care of the "long
hauls," there was greater confusion and
less service yesterday.
The elevated system made a better
showing than did the subway. From 3
A. M. until 7 P. M., 1,049 trains were
operated, compared with 1,020 trains
Friday. This was a gain of twenty-n.ne
train.
The New York Railways Company
managed to operate only five more grcer.
cars than on Saturday, when the best
total for last week was reported. Yester
day there were 267 cars out nt 4 in the
afternoon, as compared with 262 on
Saturday. The business sections of tho
city saw more of the green cars around
than usual, but tlieee had been distrib
uted where they would bo seen by tho
largest number or persons. Tho green
car service wasn't Improved materially
aver last weeh.
one on First Avrnae.
The Third Avenue lines operated from
44 to 73 cars yesterday in daylight hours.
The normal service on these lines Is
&0S cars. None of tho 60 cars of the
First Avenue line was able to run yes
terday, and only 22 at best out of hi on
tho Second Avenue line. On Sunday the
Third Avenue hud 30 cars, so yester
day's showing was a slight Improve
ment. Tlie Second Avenue line also
did u little better than on Sunday, but
the First Atenue Is still 100 per cent, to
the bad.
The brunt of the burden Is going to
fall upon the elevated lines before long.
Yesterday It was safer to travel above
the ground, occasional volleys of stones
from strikers notwithstanding, than In
the tube. The service was more expe
ditious. At 7 In the morning 139 trains were
moving. Of these 30 left 129th street
and Second avenue. 15 left 129tli street
and Third avenue, 35 left Biotjx l'ark,
10 left 179th street and Third avenue,
23 left 155th s'rect nnd Eighth avenue
nnd 21 left 135th street and Eighth ave
nue. One left Freeman street and 2 de
parted from 161st street nnd Third ave
nue. Two hours later the traffic was In
creased to 245, which was the best for
the day. At 11 o'clock there were 192
trains running, at 1 o'clock 116 trains,
at 3 o'clock 135 trains, at 5 o'clock 185
trains and at 7 o'clock 176 trains.
Except for a spurt at 5 In the evening
the subway was off Its usual schedule.
At 7 A. M, there were 64 trains going,
at 9 o'clock there were 9S, at 11 the
same number, at 1 there were 87, at 3
there were 75 and at 7 o'clock only 98.
Cars In Barns at Nlaht.
The green cars were shunted Into their
barns last night, as heretofore during
the strike, between 6 and 7 o'clock. They
started out at 8 A. M. with a strength of
250. The Lexington avenue route had a
score of these, the Fourth nnd Madison
had 27, tho Broadway and Columbus
avenue had 45, the Sixth avenue had 38,
the Seventh avenue 16, the Eighth ave
nue 33 and the Ninth avenue 2.
Avenue C had its eleven horse cars
going ns usual. Madison street had two
cars at 8 A. M and Spring and Ue
lancey el reels one.
The Eighth street crosstown routi
ran 3 cars, the Fourteenth street 16, the
Twenty-third street 16, the Thirty
fourth street 4. the Eighty-sixth street
7, and the 145th street 3.
Two hours later, at 10 o'clock, tho
green cars numbered 238. At noon there
were only 212, at 2 In tho afternoon only
203, nt 4 there were 267. the hlshest
number for the day and the strike, and
nt 6 o'clock there were 238,
The greatest efforts were made to
keep the Broadway nnd Coliimbui nve.
nue cars on tho move, as well as the
Sixth and Eighth avenue cars and the
Twenty-third street crosstown. Tho
fact remained, though, that 267 cars out
of n possible 1,291 do not make much of
nil Impression on tho New York public.
Fifty Arerane on Third Arenne,
Tho Third Avenue Railway Company,
with Its red cars, did not faro even ns
well as the New York Railways Com
pany. Although wventy-three out of
505 cars were available yesterday at
one time, the nverage was fifty for the
day. The (Irand street line had ono car
going out of twenty, the Post Office and
Brooklyn, the Avenue B, the East nnd
West Belt, the Cnrtlandt street, tho
Mnnhnttau bridge nnd tho Broadway
nnd Tenth avenue lines none at nil,
The Brooklyn and North River line
managed three or four In tho course of
he day. The Forty-second street crow
town hnd five out of forty, the Tenth
avenue had four out of twenty-three.
For a short time yesterday there
were eleven rars running on tho Fifty
ninth street crosstown route, hut that
was n flash In the pan, and the nverage
was five or six out of thirty-eight.
Along Third and Amsterdam avenues,
whero 184 cars am used In normal times,
thero were not moro thnn twenty-eight
at best. Tho Broadway and Kings
bridge line hail from two to five. The
Fort Lee ferry line stopped In the
morning after sending out two cars as
an experiment.
President Shonts Is planning to extend
tho service on the green car system
without cutting down the elevated and
suhway schedules.
"People are Interested tn the long haul
Continued on Second Page.
Assaults Are Made on L Trains From
Housetops "Green" Cars Are
Targets for Bricks
and Stones
MEN 'IMPRISONED' AT BARNS
Non-unionists Tell Public Service Commission
of Being Starved and Beaten by
Traction Gunmen
.Slight gains were made yesterday by the striking car men
in New York. The subway and elevated schedules were main
tained almost as usual, the subway only showing inroads by
the labor leaders.
Trolley service continued badly demoralized. Twenty per
cent, of the cars ran in Manhattan, but in The Bronx and
Westchester there was practically no service. In Yonkera, New
Rochelle and Mount Vernon everything was at a standstill.
'Disposition toward violence showed some increase. Green
cars were bombarded with stones and brinks. Several attacks
were made on elevated trains from housetops. A police fore
of 5,800 men kept disturbances well in hand.
Early this morning shots were fired at a Third avenue "L"
train as it was pulling out of the 106th street station. A brick
hurled from a roof struck and injured a woman passenger.
Strike leaders, with the exception of Samuel Gompers, who
is strangely silent, promised a sympathetic strike which would
take out from 60,000 to 70,000 men in trades on which the
transportation service depends within the reCt week.
Strike breakers told the Public Service Commission they
had been brutally treated by Interborough gunmen, imprisoned
at the car barns, paid less than was promised, and starved
when they protested. Mayor Mitchel ordered an immediate
investigation.
Sympathetic Strike to Enlist
Trades in Contact With Traction
A sympathetic strike of harassing
proportions, Involving certain trades
In close contact with transportation,
appears to be less than a week away,
but by the admission of the labor
union chiefs themselves the extent of
the walkout menace has shrunk.
If these labor leaders, and especially
Hugh Frayne. general organizer for
this State of the American Federation
of Labor dVid chairman of the strike
conference at the Hotel Continental,
nre speaking with open frankness, the
nympathetlc strike designed to force
the street railway companies to accept
the unionizing of their employees and
to deal with the Amalgamated Asso
ciation of Street nnd Electric Railways
will call out between 60,000 and 70,000
men only, and not tho 700,000 or 800,
000 Implied In the original threat.
Instead of the city being afflicted by
the sudden paralysis of all sorts of
trades and Industries affecting food sup
ply even, there Is to occur, if the labor
chiefs are sincere In their declarations,
only a tleup of the relatively few trades
upon which the transportation lines rely
for complementary lalwr the longshore
men that unload coal barges, the sta
tionary engineers and firemen, the team
sters and so on. That was the pro
gramme outlined last night at tho Con
tinental by Mr. Frayne, the labor unions'
chief of staff. '
Showdown Dor In a Few Days.
The 60,000 or 70,000 laborers Joined to '
the central carmen's stilke ri presents I
me maximum demonstration hoped for,
If Mr, Frayne speaks accurately for his
colleagues or correctly gauges the senti
ment of the labor union locals.
When the showdown comes In a few
days or when the various local unions
take a referendum on the general strike
recommendation which went out from
the Continental conference nnd which
will be handed down to them net Fri
day night hy their representatives In
the federated bodies, the actual number
of striking men In trades affiliated with
transportation may easily he eoni-ld-erably
smaller than Frayne's estimate
It will not be until next Monday, very
probably, before the actual scope of the
sympathy movement can be determined.
Two fnctnrs are going to count very
heavily In the opinion of the labor union
chiefs themselves. One Is the final nttl
tude of Samuel f?omper, now In the city
to size up the situation ns president of
tlie American Federation of Labor, nnd
the other Is the epanon or the con
strlrllnn of the strike now troubling the
transportation lines.
f.ompers'a Attltnde a Pnssle.
Tlie altitude of Mr. flompers remains
a puzzle, No more fascinating mvstery
has presented itself in a long series of
labor troubles than is centred In the
peculiar goings and comings of Mr,
Oompers, hln unexpected silences, his
statements that say nothing.
Invited here to take part In the strike
extension discussion, he quits the con
ference after Issuing a statement, that
promises only moral and financial sun-
l port to (ho carmen and omits any sug
gestion for a sympathetic strike. He
i did not appear at jesterday's confer
ence, Hn has refrained for twenty-four
hours from saying that ho approved of
a sympathetic strike,
When Oompers's name Is mentioned
to the labor chiefs nt the Continental
with request for enlightenment ns to
i his position they flinch from the topic
and odvlso the newspaper men to leave
all reference to Oompers out of their
reports of the strike situation. That wns
Frayne's specific advice last night, And
yet labor men on the Inside continue
to say that It rest with Qompers to
whether or not there will be a general
sympathetic strlko of any formidable
proportions.
Wants to Limit the Mtrlke.
The talk Is all around town, whether
Justified or not, that Mr. Oompers cam
here to put the soft pedal on a labor
explosion nt this time In New York city;
nnd that he wanted to limit the strike
to the present controversy between tha
Amalgamated and the transportation
lines for two reasons.
He is Intermted In getting President
Wilson reelected, nnd a big fiarenp with
Its consequent suffering would hurt the
President's chances. He does not be
lieve New York city is a favorable field
upon which to light out nny decisive
battle between labor and capital That,
at all events, is the gosNlp.
The second big factor Is recognlzedly
Important. I'nless the Amalgamated
nnd Its general organizer. William B.
Fitzgerald, can make n go of the trans
portation lines strike within a few days
It may be Impossible to Interest other
union men. It may be very dlfilcult
to get them to quit their Jol.
So far Fitzgerald has made slow
progress The surface car lines last
night were, admittedly, badly tied up
anil scarcely .had given 20 per cent
service In Manhattan even, while In The
Bronx and In Westchenter the service
was a farce.
Subway and "I." Servler liund.
But the subway continues to do busi
ness huoyantly and on n decently main
tained schedule, and so do the elevated
lines.
There ate labor people that believe
a sympathetic strlko of lg proportion"
cannot be secured until tlie subway and
elevated kcivIcq shows tlgns of col-
I hose are the general features of the
Mtuatlon. Meanwhile tlie labor union
leaders are keeping their heads up n
public and are prophesying certain vl--tory,
Just as Theodoie p Shonts of the
Interborough, Frank Hediey hH g.-nrrtl
manager, and Frederick W Wlutrldse
of the Tlilnt Avenue line profess no
alaim and sen nothing but an emplo.v
ers' triumph ahead
Narrowing the light down to Its flrn
essential, the union labor leaders are
straining every nerve tn Induce the sub.
way and elevated motntmen to trlki-.
recognizing that those ninth ;iud smitti
lines are the key to victory if It can
lo won; and .Mr Shouts and lib. ilds
are using all of their skill and enrgy
and diplomacy In keeping the mntnrmi It
loyal and maintaining tlie lndlpeni-ali!e
long hauls that the people must have in
very nairnw but very long Manhattan
Island,
EinlilliMtloii li T-rnne.
Mr Frayne explained ln.t nlKh-
Willi some frankness, It iippeired, the
present situation anil futiiie prngi amine
Calling intention to the fnct that sev
eral days will have to pass before the
extent of tlie proposed sympathetic
strike can b" known, and that It will
t iko several days also to tell whether tin
InterlKirouRh Is going to lie as hadl.v
plnrlied hy the carmen's strike as the
surface cir lines lmve been, he revealed
tlie Immediate propaganda plans of the
conference, Its first acts to win puhlk
sympathy and tn "shew up," ns lie ex
pressed It, the claims mado by Mr
Shouts.
"We have decided," said Frayne, "to
hold a gieal mass meeting In I'nlnn
Square at 1 P M on Wednesday, Sep.
tember 13. leading up to that mn
meeting, which will drnw out the biggest
union labor crowd probably In the his
tory of New York, wo wlll'hold a parade
of the UQtunl striking employees of the
Interborough and of the surface lines.
"Wo will have In that column between
11,000 nnd 12.000 uniformed employees
of tho transportation linos to prove that
there Is no truth In ths statements
Issued bv the transportation Interests
that conditions on their lines are very
nearly normal.
"It -will be a ellent parade. Theit
