THE BARRE DAILY TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 152.
BAKUE, VKRMOXT, TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 1910.
rnici:, one cext.
ZAIMIS OUT
OF CABINET
Tendered His Resignation as
Head of the Greek .
Ministry
sustained enormous low in a 3lhour
battle mdiI are retreating, pursued by the
allies.
EFFORTS BEING MADE
TO GET HIM BACK
And Confirmatory Evidence
Comes of Greece's In
ternal Disorder
London, Sept. 12. A Router dispatch
from Athens says the report that Pre
mier Zaimis has tendered resignation is
officially confirmed and that every effort
is being made to persuade him to with
draw it.
Athens, via London, Sept. 12. "If the
entente and anti-Venielist factions can
only keep quiet for ten days and not em
broil the situation, Greece's entry into
the w ar w ill be a settled fact,"
ph id a prominent Greek olticial to the
Associated Press yesterday, "If not,"
lie continued, "it is the end of fireeee."
King Constantino and Premier Ziiimis
had a lengthy conference on the situa
tion yesterday. On the whole the sit
uation with regard to Greece's entry
into the war on the side of the entento
allies seems favorable, notwithstanding
1he arrest last Sunday and .Monday by
Anglo-French secret police of Herman
and Austrian agents, which Premier Zai
iii is vigorously protested, aiid compli
city by the French in the disaffection
of the 11th Greek division at Saloniki.j
w hich profoundly shocked the Greek pub
lie and seriously endangered the success I
of the negotiations then in progress. The
mere suggestion of the possibility of King
Constantine commanding the allied ar
mies in Macedonia, however, seems to
override every hesitation.
RUSSIANS TAKE
SEVERAL HEIGHTS
NEAR BUKOWINA
They Also Won Kapul Mountain and To.
gether with It Nearly a
Thousand Prisoners.
Petrngrad, via London, Sept. 12. New
success for the Russians in the Carpathi
ans were announced by the war olllee
to-duy. Several heights near the Ruko
win border were taken and held and
Kapul mountain, to the south, also was
captured, together with nearly a thous
and prisoner.
G. O.P.N
PREPARE TO SEND
NEW SUBMARINE
TO UNITED STATES
Germans Will Dispatch Ship Some Time
During the Latter Part of the
Present Month, According
to Report in Bremen.
Berlin, via London, Sept. 12. Reports
from Bremen say that another merchant
submarine is expected to leave for the
T nited States at the end ot the present
month. Nono of the projected sister
ships of the Deutsohhind and the Bremen
have, however, been completed, according
to Philip Heineken, one of the directors
of the Ocean Navigation company.
Asked when the Bremen was expected
to reach America, Heineken said:: "Only
the gods know" and refused to discuss
the matter further.
BULGARIANS GIVE
UP GREEK FORTS
Have Evacuated All Those at Kavala,
Where Guns From Allied Warships
Dominate Them Completely.
Paris, Sept. 12. Petit. Parisien says it
learns from a semi-official source that
the Bulgarians have evacuated all the
forts at the Greek seaport of Kavala
which they occupied last month. The
forts are said to have been handed over
to the Greeks. They were of no military
value to the Bulgarians after the arrival
of the allied warships, whose guns now
dominate Kavala.
AUSTRIANS m RETREAT.
Before the Rumanians Vienna Admits
Further Withdrawals.
London, Sept. 12. For the first time
in nianv days Monday proved a day with
out spectacular feature in some of the
various war theatres. On none of the
fronts was a crushing blow delivered bv
any of the belligerents, and none of the
war chancelleries reported any great gain
by their armtes in the held.
Probably the most significant move
was that of the British in the Struma
region of the Greek Macedonian front.
lb-re the British after hard fighting
threw their forces across the Struma
at Neohori (Xeoharii at the southern end
of Lake Tahinog (Lake Takinos), which
lies between Seres and Orfano, and at
several other places near the lake. In
addition four villages were captured and
held despite heavy counter attacks by
the Teuton allies.
Whether this offensive by the British
means the commencement of an attempt
at a drive through Bulgaria or is mere
ly a manoeuvre to throw the British line
nearer Kavala, which is about '25 mileg
east of Neohori, has not yet been made
apparent. From the west of the Vardar
river to Ijtke Doiran the French are vio
lently bombarding Bulgarian positions
and on the front held by the Serbians
the Bulgarians have been compelled to
withdraw.
In the Rumanian theatre the Austrians
are in retreat liefore the Rumanians in
the Maros and Topitza valleys while to
the south of Hernianstadt the Rumani
ans have occupied the village of Heltm-
bar. icnna admits a further withdraw
al of the Austrian forces near Gvergyo.
Heavy fighting continues in Dobrudjf
and there have b?en small infantry en
gagoments alone the entire Danube
front, but in neither region has any im
portant change in position taken place.
On the eastern front, according to Ber
lin. Russian attacks along the Stokhod
river northwest of Kovel, and in Galieia
between the Dniester and Zlota f.ipa riv
ers with Haliez the objective, failed with
sanguinary losses to the Russians.
GREAT
SWEEP
Carried the Maine Election
by 13,607, Milliken Being
Elected Governor, a Solid
Delegation Being Sent to
Congress and State Legis
lature Being Controlled by
Republicans
DEMOCRATS LOST
SHERIFF'S PLACES
Soldiers at the Mexican Bor
der Gave a Slight Majority
for Milliken Retu ns Are
Complete Except for a
Few Very Small Towns
Republicans in the state. State lue
were kept largely in the fore, but they
were overshadowed by the greater issue
of national imimrt. the voter of Main
khowed their support of the entire Re
publican platform, state as well a iw I
tional.
CAR CRASHED
. INTO JITNEYS
SEES WILSON VICTORY.
Chairman McCormlck Think the Maine
Election Indicates It.
New York, Sept. 12. Chairman Me.
form irk of the Democratic committee
issued the following tate;ient
"The result of the election in Maine
indicates a sweeping Democratic victory
in November. I have neve,'- claimed that
we would win in Maine, because I real'
ir.ed to carry such a roek-f .bbed Republi
can stronghold in president lal year
would be practically impossible. e
have materially reduced the usually large
Two People Killed and 13 In
jured in New York
To-day
GREEN MOTOR MAN
LOST CONTROL
Republican majority, always obtained on prpw ftf pr Wr Planor!
national issues in that state, and that in- eW 01 Uar VV ere i laCCQ
Under Arrest at
Once
sures the election of President Wilson in
November bv an impressive majority,
just as a Republican plurality of 12,100
in September, IS!)2; prefaced the election
of President I leveland in November
"It Is the first time United States sen
ators have ever been elected in Maine by
popular vote, ard the sentiment aa to
national issues is to be gauged by the
New York, Sept. 12. The first serious
accident of the street railway strike in
vote east upon the same issue in other t'"9 r'y took place to-day when a trol
ley ear of the I'nion Railways company
in the Bronx, operated by a green motor
man, got beyond his control on a steep
grade and crashed into two jitneys, kill
ing two people and severely injuring 13
years.
Chairman W Ucnx of the Republican
committee telephoned from Syracuse, the
Republican headquarters, last night, a
statement in which he said the result of
the Maine election means a reunited Re-
BULGARIANS LOSE
MANY POSITIONS
French Have-Captured Trenches on Front
of Two Miles in Greek Macedonia
and Have Also Seized a Village.
London, Sept. 12. French troops op
crating with the British in the new of
fensive on the Struma front in GreeK
Macedonia have captured a village from
the Bulgarians, it was announced official
ly to-day. The British forces which
crossed he river have seized Bulgarian
trenches on the east bank.
Paris, via Ixmdon, Sept. 12. French
troops on the Macedonia front, taking
the offensive against the Bulgarians, have
raptured positions of the opponents on
a front of two miles and to a depth
v( 800 yards, it was officially announced
to-day.
U. S. NEUTRALITY
WAS VIOLATED
Philippine Steamer Cebu Held Up by
British Warships, According to Re
port to the State and War
Department.
Washington. D. C; Sept. 12. Violation
of American neutrality by a British tor
pedo boat, which held up and examined
the Philippine steamer Cebu within ter
ritorial waters of the Philippines, was
reported to the war department to-day
by Governor-General Harrison. The dis
patch was immediately transmitted to
the state department and will be. made
the subject for a vigorous protest to
ireat Britain.
TO RESUME WORK
ON QUEBEC BRIDGE
Will Either Raise the Sunken Span or
Construct a New One at a Cost of
a Million Dollars.
Quebec, Sept. 12. The St. Lawrence
Bridge company and the Quebec bridge
commission to-dav are conducting a joint
investigation into the collapse yesterday
of the central span of the cantilever
bridge over the St. Lawrence with the
death of 11 workmen. Engineers said
that as soon as the cause of the accident
is ascertained work either on tne con
stniction of a new span or the raising of
the sunken one, if it is possible, will be
undertaken.
Thev claim that a new span can be
completed in three months and it is esti
mated that the cost would be $1,000,000.
The sunken span did not block the chan
nel and 'ocean-going navigation was re
sumed to-day.
Portland, Me., Sept. 12. The thorough
ness of the Republican victory yesterday
was emphasized as the returns from the
isolated towns straggled in to-day. The
figures placed the plurality of Governor-
elect Carl E. Milliken over Governor Oak-
ev C. Curtis at 13.355. The returns from
the Mexican border showed that the
members of the 2-1 Maine infantrv cast
470 votes, of which Milliken received 300.
The Republicans will send a solid dele
gat inn to both t he Senate and the House
of Representatives and will control both
branches of the state legislature. Four
Democratic county attorneys failed of re
election, according to the figures avail
able this morning
The vote for governor with only three
small towns missing was as follow
Milliken, 80,902.
Curtis, 67.305.
l nese. missing towns two years ago
cast onlv about a thousand votes.
For Cnited States senator the vote was
as follows:
Kale, Republican, 78.044.
1'ernald, Republican, 7n,3iiS.
Johnson, Democrat, t8.273.
Sills, Democrat, 66,832.
publican party, assuring th election of others, four of whom m-v die Th. crew
i ii arics r,. nugnea in .ovemoer. i , .. , ,
After a night of intermittent rioting.
A DEMOCRATIC motormen on the Sixth and Ninth ave
irrr"rriT?V nUTtPIO " elevated roads reported that-they
V 1L. 1 UHl 1JAIN 1 bLb ' , , , tk
I - - ...,.-. ..., f.irr,. 1 IIT 1 IIIIU
avenue elevated trains were repeatedly
bombarded with bricks and stone hurled
from nearbv buildings. There was little
or no surface car service to-day in Man
hattan and the Rronx and not a earwheel
turned in Yonkers, Mount Vernon and
New Roehelle. I'nion leaders claimed
that hundreds of subway and elevated
employes had joined within the past 24
hours.
Secretary of Navy Declares That Maine
Ought to Have Gone Republican
By 30,000 Majority.
Washington, D. C, Sept. 12. Com
menting upon the Maine election, Sec,
Daniels claimed the result was a Dem
derstie victory. "Maine ought to have
had about .50.000 Republican majority
Instead, we cut it down to about 15.000.
The result is a Democratic victory," he
said.
ec. names declared that when na
tional issues were in consideration the
Progressives voted with the Democrats. Surface Car Transit is Almost at
i ins wwH snown, ne sam, ny tne laci
that the Republican candidates for sen
ator each ran about 7,000 votes behind
the governor.
STRIKE SITUATION
IS MORE SERIOUS
Standstill, and Elevated and Sub
way are Affected.
GOOD WEATHER FOR iDpinPr DlFiQ
VERMONT PRIMARY DlAlUUL ulUO
Candidate! and Voters Are Particularly
Favored in State-wide Voting But
Not Over 50 Per Cent of
Vote It Expected.
Splendid autumn weather favored the
candidates and the voter to-day on the
state wide primary in Vermont to nom
Inate candidate for United State en
ator, representative in Congress, state
and county offices and town representa
tive. It was weather of the very best to
get out a large vote, but owing to the
apathy in the IVmocratin nartv it was
not expected that 60 per cent of the to'
tal vote would be cast. Several stirring
contest in the Republican ranks aerved
however, to arouse the voters in that
partv. Followers of Senator Carroll S.
Page were claiming that he would lie re
nominated for the senatorial position bv
a good margin.
Voting began in everv eitv and town
at noon and will continue until 8 o'clock
this evening.
COUNTY SOCIALISTS NOMINATE.
Convention Held in Barre To-day, Fol
lowed by State Convention.
The Washington county Socialist con
vention was held in Socialist hall on
ranite street this forenoon, when the
following candidates were placed in nom
nation for various countv olTices: "
For state senators, .lohn McWilliams
of Graniteville, Lance Watson of Web
sterville and Antonio Broggi of Barre.
For side judges, J. A. Cumming of
Barre Town and Harrv King of Barre,
For sheruT, Samuel Matson of Granite
ville.
The chairman of the convention was
James Lawson, ami the clerk was David
Smith, both of Barre Town. This after
noon shortly before 1 o'clock the Social
ist state convention was called to order,
iind it is expected that the business will
not oe completed until late in the after
neon.
ALL REJECTED
City Council Startled at the
Prices Named for
the Work.
WILL NOW ALTER
SPECIFICA' JNS
Lowest Bid Was $3 18, and
City Bonded Only
for $14,500
NELSON FAIRBANKS.
"IT LOOKS GOOD"
Was Hughes' Comment on the Maine
Result.
V., Kept. IS. When in
formed last night of the results of the
Maine election to far as they had been serious aspect
New York. Sept. 12. With surface
car transit virtually at a standstill in
Manhattan, thjjflronx, Yonkers and part
of Westchester county and with subway
and elevated facilities affected more than
at any time since the Interborough strike
was called last Thursday, the traction
situation in New York assumed a more
received, Charles K. Hughes said
It looks good. I don't see how we can
lose now."
While Mr. Hughes would not comment
any further in advance of' fuller returns
it is known that he accepts the indicated
victory as a great triumph for the party
and a vindication of his own leadership,
Senator-elect Frederick Hale sent the T,K,f" '"J0'' to nini sa.v ,hat a8 a result strike came yesterday when union team-
ot tne .Maine figures the critics of the Biers employed by two hrickmaicing con-
management of the campaign must now cerns quit their posts rather than haul
cease caviling and get aboard the band sand to the New lork Railways corn-
Labor leaders held conferences during
the day on the question of seeking a
sympathetic strike among various crafts,
which if successful, would call out 750,-
000 men in the metropolitan district, but
it wag admitted that no delinite action
could be expected for at least a week.
The first demonstration of a sympathetic
TRAMPLED TO DEATH.
C. A. Anderson Stepped on By Horse at
Reeds Ferry, N. H.
Reeds Ferry, N. H., Sept. 12. C. A.
Anderson, 63, was trampled to death yes
terday by a spirited horse in one of the
box stalls in the stable on the Anderson
farm. Anderson was found Iving un
conscious under the hoofs of the animal
and died before Dr. Guy 11. Greeley of
Merrimac reached his side. His chest
was crushed, practically every rib on the
left side being broken, and his face was
battered into an unrecognizable mass by
the iron-shod feet of the horse.
It is believed that Anderson fell under
the horse's feet while he was engaged in
feeding the animal and was kicked Insen
sible before he could save himself.
The victim had lived here for the past
15 years and was engnged in operating
a poultry farm, neside hi-a wife, lie
leaves two young daughters, Mildred and
Hilda Anderson.
following telegram to Candidate Charles
E. Huglm at Plattsburg, N. Y.:
"Maine to-day has blazed the way for
the rest of the country. We have elected
our governor, two Cnited States senators
and the indications point to a solid Re
publican delegation in Congress. The
Progressives to-day supported the Re
publican nominee. A reunited Republi
can party has become a reality in Maine.
1 he campaign was waged and won large
ly on national issues and the results are
a triumphant endorsement of your can
didacy tor president.
Gov. Curtis, after receiving the early
returns, gave out this statement:
"From the figures that have been giv
en me it looks like Milliken.
TRAVERSED 18 STATES
And Comes Into Arms of the Law
Boston.
in
Boston, Sept. 12. Augr.stine Gribben,
a detective attached to the countv prose
cutor's office in Camden, N. .J., spent two
months and travelled through IS states
in pursuit of George E. Thompson. 41.
who, in escaping from the county jail in
Camden is charged with killing his jailer
and wounding his assistant. Yesterday
If the Re- Gribben, with Detectives Burke and Hag-
panv powerhouse
Hugh fravne, an organizer of the
American Federation of Labor, last night
predicted that a sympathetic strike
would be called within a week among
several trades closely affiliated with the
operation of traction lines, numbering
approximately 730,000 men. These would
include longshoremen, powerhouse em
ployes, teamsters and stationary engi
neers and firemen, he asserted. Action
bv international oftkersiof these organiza
tions would be necessary before a strike
could be called, Mr. Frayne said
Strike leaders will ask Mayor Mitchel
for permission to conduct a parade, to
I'll B U HL- . .. .,- I
publican ticket doesn't get 15,000, Wilson gert v of police headouarters, captured f IO "y a mass meeting vv canes-
mse on Conoord ... u ,.. i.
is upheld. If Milliken holds that ratio, Thompson in a lodging hous
rrohioition wins, ot course.
NATIONAL G. 0. P. ELATED.
Maine Result Held to Be Augury of Na
tional Voting.
New York, Sept. 12. Leaders at Re
publican national headquarters here ex
pressed elation over the result of yester
day's election in Maine while those at
Democratic headquarters declined to con- ,js elotiiine
1 .. U A- 1L. I, l.i: . 7
BIKE RIDER SUICIDE.
Edward B. Walter, 60, Shot Himself at
Norwell, Mass.
Norwell, Mass., Sept. 12. Edward B.
Walter, 60 years old, at one time a trick
bicycle rider, and later a paper mer
chant in Boston, shot himself yesterday
afternoon in a field near Winter street.
His spine had been injiii-ed in a bicycle
accident and in late yeaiis he had been in
poor health. He retired from business
bout a year ago and bought a home
here.
Walter was single anil a housekeeper
managed his home. Yesterday afternoon
he rode on a passenger-carrying truck
to Winter street, where he walked across
lots to a clump of trees. Medical Ex
aminer Osgood of Brockton viewed the
bod v.
VERMONT PASTOR SUICIDE.
BULGARIANS IN FLIGHT.
Are Being Pursued By the Allies, Says
Atheni Despatch.
London, Sept. 12. The new offensive
of the entente on the Macedonia front
Vss resulted in tho d.-feat of the Bul
garians, savs an Exchange Telegraph de-
rrlch from Athens. The Bulgarians ticn.
Rev. Arthur Hartwell of Jamaica Took
Poison.
Springfield. Mass.. Sept. 12. Rev. Ar
thur Hartwell. aged 4. years, pastor of
the longregational chun h in -Is man a.
Vt., died in the Mercy hospital y-strJjy
s a result of poison, self adniinistered.
Mr. Hartwell had ls?en suffering from
nervous disorders f--r several years.
Medical Examiner K. .T. Mahoncv. alt
er viewing the body, decided (hat Mr.
Hartwell came to his death by hi own
act. aftr a period of mental aberra-
cede any triumph to the Republicans in
carrying the state. Secretary Reynolds
of the Republican national committee is
sued a statement in which he said:
"The result in Maine, especially in the
Republican vote for governor, shows an
absolutely reunited party. Carl E. Milli
ken has received all votes cast for the
Progressive candidate two years ago, to
gether with th
two years ago.
"Best of all, the state, has repudiated
Senator Charles F. Johnson, a member of
the finance committee of the Senate,
which framed the present Democratic
tariff bill."
Chairman Willcox telephoned from Sy
racuse to Republican headquarters a
statement in which he said the result
of the Maine election means a reunited
Republican party, assuring the election
of Charles K. Hughes in November.
Chairman McCormick of the Democratic
committee issued the following statement:
"The result of the election In Maine
indicates a sweeping Democratic victory
in November. We have materially re
duced the usually large Republican ma
jor it yv always obtained on national is
sues in that state, and that insures the
election of President Wilson in Novem
ber by an impressive majority, just as
a Republican plurality of 12,.S0 in Sep
tember, 1W, perfaced the election of
I'reisdent Cleveland in November.
"It is the first time Cnited States sen
ators have ever been elected in Maine
by popular vote; and the sentiment as to
national issues is to be gauged by the
vote cast upon the same issue in other
years."
street.
On July fl Thompson, confined in th
Camden jail on a forgery charge, was
awaiting trial. Imprisoned in a steel
cage with him was a man named Ash-
bridge, charged with murdering a wom
an.
According to the police, the two men
asked their jailor, Isaac Ilibbs, to ap
proach the cage and read hem a letter.
Suddenly one of the prisoners drew from
a revolver which had been
smuggled into the jail. There was a
flash, a puff of smoke and Hibbs fell back
dead. One of the men reached throucrh
the bars and took his keys.
Once outside the cell, the prisoners en
gaged in a running fight with the prison
attendants and one of thes"? was wound
ed. Both prisoners made their escape,
but Ashhridce wa-s reeAntnrpft u-uKin a
stsy-at-honic' vote of fw days. Thomnson, with his college
education and quick wits, was able to
evade detection for a longer period.
Then Gribben was put on the trail. Tie
went south, be went, west, following
every clue. W lien Thompson turned to
ward Boston. Grihhen picked tip the trail
and took a lodging in the south end.
where, with the aid of the Boston detec
tives, he located his man.
When Thompson entered his hiding
place late yesterday afternoon the three
officers were behind a screen. Three re-
I vol vers covered him. Th? fugitive had
'grown a moustache and his hair had
turned gray.
He was taken to headquarters, where,
according to the police, he acknowledged
that he was Thompson. He ssid he was
a lawyer and realized" the futility of
fiehtinc extradition. After spending the
night in the city prison he was taken
back to New Jersey to-day.
In the Bertillon room. Thompson
wrote his name in a tyle which won the
admiration of the inspectors.
"That writing brought me into trou
ble," he is reported as ayine.
CALLS ELECTION CLEAN.
Republican Chairman in Maine Sayi Na
tional Issue Overshadowed.
make the affair a huge labor demonstra
tion, it was said, and the principal line
of march would be up Fifth avenue.
Violence in connection with the strike
occurred at several points yesterday, and
one serious demonstration was broken
up only by vigorous action on the part
of the police reserves. This occurred
when strikers piled cobble stones on the
track, stopping a car. Stones were then
thrown at the car until all its windows
were smashed and parts of the woodwork
demolished. A woman passenger was
stunned when she was knocked down
bv the rush to get off the car. The strik
ers lifted the motorman and conductor
to their shoulders and started to their
halt with them, but policemen rescued
the men and they ran the car into the
barns. Arrests were frequent, but no
one was seriously injured in the disorders
throughout the city, police reports say
Police Commissioner Woods ordered
an investigation into charges made be
fore the police service commission by
men who said they were strikebreak
ers. The men declared they had been
held prisoners in a carbarn and were
beaten by employes of a strike breaking
agency when they demanded their pay
and right to leave. President Shonts de
nied that strikebreakers were being mis
treated.
Pretty Wedding at Bride's Home in St,
Johnsbury.
St. Johnsburv, Sept. 12. The mar
riage of Miss Dorothy, youngest daugh
ter of Mr. and Mrs. Henry Fairbanks
and John Kdson Nelson of Poughkeepsie
N. Y.. took place this afternoon on the
beautiful grounds at "Elmwoode," the
home of the brides parents.
The ceremony was .performed by the
brides brother-in-law, Kev. Chauncev A
Adams of Danville, and the matron of
honor was the bride's sister. Mrs. Adams
The bridesmaids were Miss Mary R. Ely,
-Miss Helen Gray, Miss Isabel Gaskill and
Miss Katherine E. Eaton of St. Johns-
bury, Mis Grace MeLam of Rvegate,
Miss Jeanie Darling of Newbury, Miss
Ruth Richardson of Littleton, N. H Miss
Theodora illard of Boston, Miss Ruthy
Palmer of South Framingham. Mass., and
Miaa Mary L. Fairbanks of Cambridge,
-Mass. 1 he best man was the groom s
brother, James Nelson of Rvegate, and
the ushers were Charles E. Gibson, Wal
ter A. Nelson, Philip A. Nelson, J. Amos
Nelson, Edwin McKirahan. Dales McLatn
and J. Lesley MeLam, all of Ryegate,
Hugh MacK innon and George Newell of
St. Johnsbury and Paul F. Herrick of
Springfield, Mass. The flower girl was
the bride's' little niece, Charlotte Fair
banks Adams of Danville. The music
was in charge of Miss Gratia D. Ba ch
of New York City, assisted by Miss Hel
en A. Boynton and Miss Prracilla Brooks.
The bride is a graduate of St. Johns
bury academy, 1 006, and Smith college,!
1010. . The groom, who was her classmate
at St. Johnsbury academy, is a graduate
of Cornell university, 1910, and Is now a
draftsman for the De Laval Separator
Co. at Poughkeepsie, N. Y., where Mr.
and Mrs. Nelson will reside after Oct. 1.
DEATH OF STENOGRAPHER.
COUNTY COURT ADJOURNED.
CO. C ORDERED HOME.
College Boys in Vermont Troops to Be
Mustered Out.
Augusta. Me., Sept. 12. Frank .1.
Ham. chairman of the Republiran state
committee, said last night: "To-dav's
election is an endorsement of the clean, rrl I-e
Eagle Pass. Tex.. Sept. 12. An order
from the war department stating that
Company C and the tanitary troop were
to be returned to thir state mobiliza
tion ianip and mustered out was re
ceived ye-terday afternoon at headquar
Will Begin Actual Work Wednesday
Forenoon.
fudge Frank L. Fish tf Vergenne
formally opened the September term of
Washington county court this forenoon
at Montpelier, a recess being taken until
to-morrow forenoon, however, when the
jurors were instructed sometime ago to
report for duty. The primaries caused
the above action to be decided upon sev
eral weeks ago. ;
There are 34 cases set for trial by jury
and 44 cases on the court calendar tor
hearings and in addition there will be
the state cases, the exact number of
which will not be determined until later
in the term.
The first five cases on the jury calen
dar are as follows, probably one of which
will be taken up to-morrow: A. H. and
L. H. Lippencott vs. A. Malnati 4. Co..
assumpsit; Worcester Cigar Co. vs. An
tonio Romanis, apt.; I'nion Meeting
House oriety t. A. F. Davis. trepa;
Bmrkftt-Shaw-Lont Co. vs. l.uke Tar-
Lillian E. Britton Died at Brattleboro
Last Night.
Brattleboro, Sept. 12. Lillian E. Brit
ton, aged 31, a former resident of Hins
dale, N. H., died at the home of her sis
ter, Mrs. Luther Kavs, on Main street
last evening after seven months' ill
ness.
She was born in Hinsdale, N. H., a
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. James Britton.
She graduated from the. high school and
from a business college. She had been a
stenographer in Greenfield, Mass., and in
Springfield, Mass.
She was a member of Queen l-sther
Rebecca lodge of Hinsdale and of the
auxiliary of the Sons of Veterans of
Springfield.
nesides her tatner and sister men
tioned, she leaves another sister, Mrs
Charles Safford, of Hinsdale, and two
brothers, Frank Britton of Greenfield and
Eugene Britton of Providence. The fu
neral will take place Wednesday morning
at the home of her sister.
AH bid for the proposed granite arch
bridge over Jail branch at the South
Main street intersection were rejected by
the city council in special meeting last
night, three of the five because the
amounts named were vastly higher than
the council had expected and the citizens
had bonded for and the other two be
cause the bids were not accompanied by
certified checks, as stipulated by the spe
cification requirements. The city bonded
for$14.500 for the improvement, and the
lowest bid considered last night was
?34.348.
The council considered the bids in pub
lic and then in private; and after voting
in the public session to hold the bids
open for a week they voted, after private
consultation, to reject one and all and
advertise for new bids under new speeifi-
cation. It is planned to ask for offers
for bridge under three designations, (1
a reinforced concrete bridge, (2( a rein
forced concrete bridge with granite para
pet and entrances. (3 a steel bridge.
The time for seeking these new bids has
not been set but it is plainly evident
that the work cannot be carried out this
year, even should a bid be accepted.
When the special meeting was called to
order by Mayor Gordon, Clerk Mackay
produced five proposals which he proceed
ed to open under orders from the council.
Two of the bids were not accompanied by
checks, although one of them had a bond.
It was first voted to dispose of those.
which had not enclosed checks, without
hearing the amount of the bids named.
Alderman Haley moved that the J. E.
Cashman bid, which was accompanied by
a, bond, be not considered, and the motion
was carried unanimously. The same al
derman then moved that the bid of
Tames Swann Si Son of Lewiston, Me.,
which had been accompanied by neither
bond nor check, be not considered, and
the bid was thus unceremoniously thrown
aside.
Certified checks were produced for the
other three bids, and the proposals were
then read to the council, as follows:
C. E. Foley, Barre, $.14,348.
E. X. Normandeau, Barre, $37,212.
Hinds Construction Co., Inc., Spring
field, Mass., $34,Rf)0.
The council didn't have much to sav
bout the bids except to ask a consulting
ngineef, F. O. Sinclair of Burlington.
who was in attendance, if some of the
peeifieations could not be changed so
that the cost of the bridge could be re
duced. It was agreed that the specifica-
ons could be toned down somewhat but
not to make any appreciable difference in
the cost. Alderman Bruce moved that
the bids the three mentioned be held
open for a week, and the motion was car
ried. Then the motion was made to re
tire into executive session and that car
ried, with the result, as stated above,
that all the bids were rejected as being
above the city's means.
FUNERAL OF EDS0N H0LDEN.
TOWN'S ONLY DOCTOR DEAD.
Dr. Albert J. Mackay of Peacham Died
After Operation.
St. Johnsbury, Sept. 12. Dr. Albert
James Mackav of Peachara died at
Brightlook hospital yesterday following
an operation for an intestinal trouble j the returns in the immediate vicinity for
periormea rsaturaay morning.
Held at His Late Home in South Barre
Monday Afternoon.
Funeral services were held yesterdal
for Edson Fisher Holden, who passed
away at the Heaton hospital in Montpel
ier following Rn operation for appendi
citis Saturday, from the Holden farm in
South Barre, Rev. J. B. Reardon officiat
ing. The many Horal tributes and friends
attending bespoke the great respect in
which Mr. Holden was held.
The bearers were Howard Holden and
Charles Holden, brothera of the de
ceased, Fred E. Burr, John Worcester.
James Tirie and M. P. Sullivan, the lat
ter renresenting the Modern Woodmen,
of which Mr. Holden was a member. The
ritual of the Modern Woodmen was used
at the grave, interment taking place in
the family lot at Elmwood cemetery.
TO HAVE SPECIAL WIRE.
Times Will Receive Vermont's Primary
Returns To-night.
A special telegraph wire has been run
into The Times otlice and connected with
a special election service wire of the
Western I'nion company ready for hand
ling returns to-night from the primaries
throughout Vermont. A special operator
will "sit in" at The Times office to re
ceive the returns, and at the same time
the telephone wire will be busy collecting
above-beard campaign conducted by the afternoon.
ters. Thi in lii ies a,! honafide students
of those organization. A 'liitant icn-1 bell: K. and Paulina fHtonelli . Marv
1i!ltnn arrne-i je-terJav and tliarb-s Zanlfs-ni, apt, general as-
Dr. Mac
kay was the only physician in Peacham
and had a very large practice throughout
the farm towns of Caledonia countv. He
represented the town in the legislature
of 1015-16 and was a member of the com
mittees on education, the in-ane and pub
lic health. He w as born in .Canada Feb.
16, 1SH6, and after receiving his M. D.
from the I'niversity of Vermont, located
in Peacham in 107 to practice. He had
been school director and health officer
for, ten years. In 10O2 he married Mary
tlark Blair, who survives him with threa
c hildren.
compilation bv the Associated Press.
Particular emphasis will be laid, of
course, on the three leading contests on
the Republican ticket, the senatorial
nomination, the lieutenant governorship
and the auditorship.
Bulletins will be posted from time to
time in the office windows.
H. A. PHELPS' STATEMENT.
LOSS HALF INSURED.
to
aiuxifsit.
Barn on Bakersfield Farm Thought
Have Been Set Afire.
Bakersfield. Sept. 12. A barn on the
farm of Mrs. Fred KUis was burned to
the ground let u een I and 2 nYlnrlc this
morning, and the los is Jl.omi. with in-
hi ranee of Of the insurance f2iO
wa-i on the barn and ?3'H on the hay.
Nome wagons, cows and 4e ton of hsv
were destroyed. It is thought that the
lire was of incendiarjr origio.
Tells Voters of Barre He Would Appre
ciate Their Support.
I have issued no previous statement re
garding my candidacy for representative
from Barre City in the next Vermont
state legislature. 1 would appreciate the
support of every oter who can conscien
tiously cast his ballot for me; and. if
nominated in the primary as the Repub
lican candidate for representative from
Barre City to-day. Tuesday. Sept. 12. and
elected in November. I will use my beet
effort that all legislation before the
coming general assembly of the state ?
Vermont shall be for the greatest good t
the largest number.
(feacdj Henry A. Their.
