V? r?
UAIL9
Prom tan Francisco
' ' (3. Northern, Dec 22.
For San Francisco
Ventora, lec. 19.
From Vancouver
Niagara, Dec, 27.
For Vancouver
. siakura, Jn. t.
Evening HuUetin. Kt J No. f.l
Ha Allan Star, Vol. XXIV, No. 7T0L'
16 PAQI! HONOLULU, TEKKITORY OF UAWAII, TUKSDAV, DKCKMBKK 1!, lOKJ.lG PAGES
I ll 10K FIVE CKXTS
Pnrnnf
id) A rap
'A
I I I V I
JJa
www
T3
j
UK
ILL j u elyuiEE ULJ HlibUMj U UilUk ; '
. a
,'rrrirp n raiT3 irTiimiTrir? n n (ft rpn rrn nT?r?T7?
I V 1 ''II III I I LJ II LJ III III III I I V V I 1 II ' V I I I I I I I I I I I I III 2 I I I
LjJ YmbiL r mm urn
"" 't i ' I':' -1.-..:.--'-"- -',''..:..;. ; ; ; ",:'r
DO. ID TO
QUIT EVERY I0D
U;:D31 TERRITORY
Determination of Maui Demo
cratic Leader Comes as
Surprise and Sets Tongues
v Wagging as to Future Plans;
He Says He Will Attend to
Private Business
Dr. James H. Raymond, proprietor
ol tbe Raymond Ranch on Maui, mem
ber of the Maul board of supervis
or inif ffirmf halrmn nf tha tir.
riiorla land board, will tender his res
allon to the governor from every
office he holds under the government
. Dr. Raymond, who was recently de
feated In his campaign for the terri
torial senate on tha Democratic ticket,
told the Star-Bulletin - today that he
g absolutely out of - politics., and that
he will iievote his time to his private
business. ;.-;
Wise ones nodded their heads today
v when informed of Raymond's state-
juent, referring to a rumor some weeks
ago to tbe effect that Raymond would
receive itie lermonai ei;rcwtrnijj,
but the Maul medioo declares himself
ahuolnfplr through vlfh covprnmpnt
, Governor PInkham today refused to
see Raymond w hen the' latter called
t Uie capitol, announcing through his
stenographer as be did to later call
ers that he was loo busy to grant any
conferences. Raymond denied shortly
afterwards that this had anything to
do with his decision to resign. '
v -T am out of polItlc8.,, said the doc
tor. "My resignation will be written
as Boon as 1 return to my rooms at
the Yorrtj hotel.1 have cctjio. V? th:
. conclusion that I 'cannot, by being In
Jojiuca,, do rayFelf. orjny .party, any
'-.good, audi tare already alienated too
' ...work fof the Interest of . the public.
, I do not' propose to do it any more."
Dr. Raymond has also been . men
tioned as a possibility for governor
but recently In Maul he stated thai he
. was not an applicant for that office.
i mmwmmmmmmmm i . -
CMS Cl TKLE
mm'- wt - mm fm M w-w ft m fL
v -.'.
Provide? tvr Holdover Term
But Primary Call Comes
'. The attention of - the Star DUletin
was called today to tbe possibility of
a conflict over sections of thj pr
posed amended charter for K'-no2n'a
and the present election laws
The sections in question call for a
m i a j t -: a
iau , eie.uon ana a six monui? coiu-
i - . v. . i . i j - .
er oi me prevent otuce noiu.T onu
with fthe call for the primary alectton
going jut February 6 before the leg
islature convenes on February 21,'
a problem confronts the law makers
and posiible candidates which Is like
ly to cause considerable trouble before
it Is finally settled. There is also the
fact that the charter may not be voted
upon until after the primary election,
April 7, in which case if It were passed
it woalj leave tbe primary winners
tip in the air.
The question arises, therefore, as
to whether action of the legislature
would nullify the call for the primary
- election or whether election machin
ery would continue to grind on and an
election be held at the usual time, the
newly elected officers to assume of-
months hold-over, or again whether
: the election would be postponed till
. the date '. set by the proposed ' new
' charter. '
Vith these problems before them
the legal lights of Honolulu are likely
to be caused a number of sleepless
nights before a decision is reached.
- A- M. Crlsty.leputy city attorney, said
today that offhand he thought the ac-
hint of the legislature would nullify
'e t primary action but before he could
jer authoritatively it would re
quire coasiderable study. He suggest
. ed that the legislature pass some legis
lation when It convenes to cover this
angle. ' - : '
' ';'
,;ore mwm
FAIL TOiTEUTOIiS
(Aociti Preti by FJert Wirelet
BERLIN, Germany, pec, 19. One
thousand Russian and Rumanian pris
oners were taken on the Rumanian
frcnt today. The enemy is continuing
to retreat toward the lower Danube,
NEW YORK STOCK
I MARKET TODAY j
Following aro th dosing price of
ttocka on the New York market t
day, aent by the Aaaoclated Press over
the Federal Wlrelesa:
Yeeter
: Today, day.
Alaska Gold ........
American Smelter ...
12'8 12V'a
'.10
107H
112
125
87
10414
68
j American Sugar Rfg.
American Tel. & Tel.
Anaconda Copper . ..
Atchison .......
.Baldwin Loco. .......
1122
125'2
86U
104H
67T',
85
Baltimore A Ohio ......
Bethlehem Steel ......
Calif. Petroleum .......
Canadian Pacific .......
CM, & St. P. (St. Paul)
Colo. Fuel & Iron ......
Crucible Steel ..........
trie Common ..........
General Electric .......
General Motors ........
Great Northern Pfd. ...
Inter. Harv N. J. .....
Kennecott Copper .....
Lehigh R. R. .....
New York Central .....
Pennsylvania ..........
Ray Consol. ...... .....
Couthern Pacific
Studebaker . . ..........
572 J...
2'2 . 25
167
9V2
47
6'2
36 Vu
170
167!2
94
46
67
116
123
47
80
105'a
56',
27
88'2
113
206'2
147
112
11'a
104
101 '
542
117
123'a
472
80'4
105
56',
27
98'2
11254
2032
146
113
119
105
101J4
558
Texas
Union Pacific .
U. S. Steel ....
U. S. Steel Pfd.
Utah
Western Union
Westing ho use
. Bid. fEx-dlvldend. I Unquoted. v
em prisoners
OH llflPPY VOYAGE
,: TO. FflTCErMID
Merchant Seamen Are En Route
From Australia to Europe
for Making of Exchange ;
First of the German merchant sea
men above or below military age to
be exchanged, with Germany in return
for an equal number of Australian
prisoners from the German i-rison
camps in the Fatherland, as previous
ly agreed upon between Great Britain
and the Central Powers, are through
passengers today on the Oceanic liner
Ventura, en route from the Liverpool
Internment camp, near Sydney, to Ger
many via Norway or some other neu
tral country.
There are 23 sailors In today's lot.
AH but three of them are above mili
tary age, 53 years. The others are
two boys, German apprentice sailors.
below 17 years of age, and a sailor of
military age who recently lost one
eye and Is consequently incapacitated
for military service, All have repa
triation passes issued by the Austral
ian government, good for three
months from December 6, the day the
Ventura left Sydney..
According to one of the boy appren
tices, Otto Muller, who has been a
prisoner at IJverpool since the camp
was1 established In November. 1914.
their transportation back to Germany
via San Francisco and New York is
being paid by the imperial Gorman
government. The exchange will take
place probably In Norway and 23 Aus
tralians who are now war prisoners
in Germany will come back to Sydney.
The pass only states that the ex
change will take place "in a neutral
country."
Franz Cramer, an apprentice, said
there are now 3000 . Germans, 2000
Austrians, seme Bulgarians and a few
Turks at the. Liverpool camp. The
Germans have formed an orchestra
and have a dramatic society. All pris
oners must work clearing land near
the camp. i
Ferry' McGillivray, national 100
yard swimming champion, will come
to Honolulu for the big -vimming
carnival in February. McGillivray IS
one of the best known swimmers in
America, and has many records to his
credit. Word was received by Y T.
Rawlins today that McGillivray would
surely be on hand. -
This news coming after . the an
nouncement was made that the Chica
go natator would be unable to attend
the meet, should be well received by
lovers of aquatics, as McGillivray is
perhaps better known than any 'other
swimmer in the world with the excep
tion of Dune. McGillivray has nego
tiated the 100 yards in 54, the 220 In
2:29, the 440 in 5.22 and the 300 yards
in 3:26 1-5. It Is certain that McGilli
vray Is anxious to compete against
Norman Ross, as he has intimated as
much in his correspondence with Raw
lins. McGillivray is a member of the
Illinois Athletic Club of Chicago.
CO E TO Mm
Late News
FELIX OIAZ REVOLUTION MAKING PROGRESS
EL PASO, Texas, Dec. 19. Reorts received here today say that Ortea
ha anl Puebla ure in the hands of followers of Felix Dial and Jalapa.
MEXICAN-AMERICAN COMMISSION MARKING TIME
PHILADELPHIA. Pa., Dec.. 19. The Mxiean-Aineriean Joint commis
ion idjjurned today to an indeterminate elite, awa.ting the reply to a
ccunter-communication by the Americans, followin Carranza's expression,
which nas not yet been made public.
NEVER INTENDED TO SEND MILITIAMEN INTO MEXICO
WASHINGTON, D C, Dec. 19 Referring to the sending of militia to
the border and what is characterized as failure of the mobilization system.
Gen. Hugh L. Scott, chief of staff, said to day that it had not been intended
to send the guardsmen into Mexico. He said ihey w-orld- have destroyed
themselves marching. " "We sent the guarlsmen to the iorder localise
they, were all we had and we wanted the Mexicans to see the soldiers
comins," he said. :.
WILL GIVE 1C00 FREE CHRISTMAS DINNERS
One thousand dinners will be given away to' the" needy next Saturday
morning by the Salvation Army. These Yuletide gifts will be in the. form
of 200 well stocked baskets, each containing sufficient provisions for five
separate meals. The distribution will be made from the army headquarter.
814 Nuuanu. street, 1 rora 9 Q'clock in ti:e morning until noon.
COMMITTEE QUESTIONS KAMEHAMEHA ALUMNI
. A series of que&cions is being dis tributed among 'former students and
alumni of the Kamehameha schools by a committee of the alumni, asking,
among other things, whether they are in favor of; raising the studies of
Kamehameha to a high. school standard. They are also asked whether
they favor military, training and whether they would send their children to
the schools under present conditions.
TROUBLE WITH MACHINERY IS CAUSE OF DELAY
Trouble in the engine room and not 3r?aTner was the reapon for
the Matson liner Wllhelmlna's late arrival this afternoon, according to Capt
: Peter Johnson, her commander. Th e liner had to lay to for four and a
half hours, from 8 p.m. until shortly after midnight last Friday, while new
crank pin brasses were put on. The weather was pleasant the entire voy
age. :;:..:'.';.; ; :: ;- ' .:-',
NEW STEAMER MAUi TO SAIL MARCH 7 r !
That the new and palatial Matson liner, Maul will leave San Francisco
for Honolulu March 7, 1917, on her maiden voyage to Honolulu, commanded
by Capt. Peter Johnson of the Wllhelmina, was a piece of .news brought
back this afternoon by Manager Job n H. Drew of .Castle & Cooke's ship
ping department v The new Matson flag ship will make. the voyage In five
days, Capt 'Johnson said this afternoon.. This will bridg her to Honolulu
March 12. She' will be launched Saturday. Manager Drew reported Capt
William Matson greatly Improved, able to attend to business tffatrs evert
day, and; to, walk; as well as ever. S . .,4 ,.r--j.
V ISSUES WARRANTS FOR PURCHASE IRWIN SITE
'Indication that the government has approved of the title transferring
to it possession of the Irwin site, comes with information received by the
law firm of Frear, Prosser, Anderson & Marx that, on December 18, Die
assistant secretary of the treasury issued a warrant for $200,000 for the
purchase of the site. In the opinion of the U. S. attorney's office, the
government is satisfied with the title as secured under the recent agreed
judgment entered in the local court. The warrants are believed to now be
on the way to Honolulu. ' ;.
PRESIDENT KENNEDY IS HOME; NON-COMMITAL.
"I have nothing whatever to say. The only business I did in San
Francisco was to go to the doctor," said James A. Kennedy, president and
general manager of the Inter-Island Steam Navigation Company, this after
noon, two minutes after, he had stepped ashore from the Wllhelmina. Ken
nedy refused to give any idea who will be chosen as vice-president of the
company to succeed the late James L. McLean. It is certain that a meet
ing of the directors will be held before the end of this week to choose a
successor. The meeting has been deferred till the return of the president,
it if known. Kennedy's general health seems greatly improved as a result
Ci his trip.
REPORTED SUGAR CARRYING DEAL GIVEN DENIAL
- "It isn't so." With these three words John H. Drew, manager of the
shipping department of Castle & Cooke, the local I latson agency, this
afternoon . "nailed" the report from the coa3t that the American-Hawaiian
Steamship Company has assigned its 1917 sugar carrying contract to tbe
Matson line. 7rew returned on the ' Wjlhelmina. He fcaid he was told
In San Francisco by Capt Saunders, superintendent of the Matson Naviga
tion Company, that the American-Hawaiian will resume its sugar transporta
tion the latter part sf January, with two vessels of the Floridan and Texan
type, which - will bring coal from the AUantic coast via Panama for Pearl
Harbor before 'oading their first sugar cargoes In 'he islands for San
Francisco.
JUDGE WATSON OBJECTS TO HEARSAY EVIDENCE
DecUrlng that the testimony of Matthew M. Graham, company aud
itor and L. J. Warren, attorney for the Inter-Island, seemed "almost pure
ly heresay and suggesting that some official directly connected with the
business might give more direct evidence, Judge E. M. Watson, public
utility attorney, put a new turn to the rate hearing after it had continued
for half an hour this afternoon. . -
Graham submitted today two statements, one giving the funds and
cash assets held against these funu s from 1905 to 1915 Inclusive, the
other the percentage of dividends paid on actual investments, from 1906 to
It vas when" Forbes went Into details on some of the items and War
ren and Graham answered him in explanation that Judge Watson made his
suggestion. Warren stated that he had filed the auditor's statement, to
"refute Mr. Field's unfounded statement that there was no ,cash : at any
time to cover various funds," a statement, he declared, as "absolutely un
justified and one which Field had no business to make without having
covered the ground." : .'.'
At the suggestion of the commission Graham agreed to bring detailed
explanation of corporation stocks,, nature of credit with agents, book ac
counts, bills receivable and notes. :
"WAS WEAK FflOr.l
TORTURE," HE SAYS
Harold Castle was the first witness
called by the territory today in the
trial of M. Fujimoto alias Waichi Fu
jimoto. .who is charged with having
killed Hiroki '- Emoto, who was a'
chauffeur in the employ ol James B.
Castle.
Castle said that on one occasion he
had gone to Fujimoto's house to see
why Tome Emoto, Hirokl's wife, had
not been to work for several days. Fu
jimoto was Tonic's brother-in-law, and
she was found at his house. Castle
added. "She appeared weak from the
torture she had been through," the
witness said, - but his statement was
stricken from the record.
The vritness testified that Fujimoto
had opposed the marriage of Tome and
Hiroki. Wong Ah Sing, employed at
At A Glance
PBESSCIIOIY
IS DEAD IN ITALY
(Associated PrM by Fdrl Wireless)
DETROIT, Mich., Dec. 19. A cable
gram received here says that the
Princess Caraman de Chimay, former
ly Clara Ward of Detroit, has died at
Padua, Italy, after a brief illness. j
Clara Ward's ' elopement with the
Prince Chimay was an international
sensation a number of years ago.
the Castle place, told how he was
awakened on tht morning of the mur
der by the groaning of the : woman.
When her room was entered she was
lying on the bed with her husband.
Both hai been frightfully slashed. Ac
cording to Cast!e, Emoto 'was dead
when the room-was entered. Further
trial it the case will be had tomor
row momlng in Circuit Judge Ash
ford's court
Reply of
iu MZitisaif jci id Lilian n II jqjc u
For End of War; Entente Is Untied
(Associated Press by Federal Wireless) v
PARIS, France, Dec. 19. Premier Aristide Briand announced in the
senate today that the Entente Allies will send tomorrow a concerted reply to
the enemy nations making it known "to the. Central Powers that it is impos
sible to take their request for peace seriously."
LONDON, Eng., Dec. 19. Leaders of the house of lords this evening
made declarations of a British policy which is determined to carry on the
war until Germany yields and pledges reparation for the past.
serted that the policy of the government is that the war will be prosecuted
to the utmost, and that there must be an ample return for all sacrifices, full
reparation, and security given that the Teuton "crimes will not be repeated."
The Marquis of Crewe told the lords "We must carry on the war to the
last man and the last shilling."
In the course of Lloyd George's speech in the house of commons, the
new premier served notice that the nation must restrict itself rigidly in the
consumption of supplies. He began by saying: "I appear with the greatest
responsibility that has fallen on any man, as the chief adviser. of the Crown
in the midst of the most gigantic' war and upon which the destiny of nations
and humanity depends. The harvests of. the United States and Canada are
failures. I appeal to the nation to assist the government in distributing our
resources. . x-'-. .s:t v--'':'''-'".: ;' -V'."::'.-;.: i ;:. r-. :-')
t' "Let us proclaim a national Lent during the wan We propose to ap
point a director in Scharge of. universal national service. This military direc
tor; will be responsible for recirmting. .. l:;-': '.
Nevielle Chamberlain, lord mavor of Birmingham, it is announced, has
accepted the director-generalship. Industries throughout the Isles will : be
scheduled as essential" to the war or non essential, and treated accordingly.
The premier also announced that "it has been decided to recognize the
agents or ex-fremier Venizelos or Ureece.
LONDON. Eng.. Dec. 19. The neace move
Chancellor von Bethmann-Hollwes's soeech in
hope for peace negotiations, David Lloyd George,
the house of commons today m the speech which
empire.
LOCAL LIGHT ON
GEORGE'S SPEECH
News of Lloyd George's speech in
the house of commons, answering Ger
many's peace suggestions, was re
ceived in Honolulu with varying inter
pretations. . :
Two brokers interested In the fluc
tuations of the market thought the
speech would have a "bearish" ten
dency on such stocks as will go down
on peace news. V'-:Y.:":
Another-broker took a precisely op
posite view. "The speech is a strong
statement on behalf of a continuance
of the war until the Allies get what
they demand. This means more war,
without a doubt," he said.
At Nolte's, where the renowned
"board of strategy" met at Its usnal
midday session, the opinion was strong
that . Lloyd George's speech is a re
fusal of the German proposals,
though a refusal which does not close
the door to the Central Powers if hey
wish to make other terms terms
which the Allies might accept. .
Consensus of such opinion as was
heard today is that the German ad
vances have been flouted.
EigRmns
On Hawaii
SUr-BoIIetin Special tr MatuaJ WireltssJ
. H1LO, Hawaii, Dec. 19. Yes-
terday and lat night the rainfall
f on tais island mace some re
f markable records. At Piihonua
f 11 Inches fell in 24 hours. At
Four Miles, Olaa, a bridge was
f washed out. A rough sea is re-
ported on the Hamakua coast and
steamers cannot work there on
t
acep mt of' the high waves. It is
still luining iiere. A rain storm
and lightning is reported along
the Kona coast. ' - '
amain, vuiuie wui ricr
1 t.r!.;
LONDON, KnglniHl. De-. Ill
.11 M 11 ililt L IMI I l' aa'j ...iv . x . - .. ,... . . i
siiestions from the Control l'owers.
In a notnhU spooch lKfore the house of conmions, tlu now irc
xnior out lined Jiritish K)liy and that if the Entente Allion. - AVhilo
; not flatly refusing to listen to talk of i he declared that the Ger
man proposals a re not in shae for formal disiaission, and that Ger
many and sister nations imist ar-ede to the terms upon, whiih the
Allies will apree. ' :
The premier s;iid that the .Allies would insist only that the end
oi t lie war inusi oe sucn as win
rrussian miinarism uisrurmn; tue peaee oi Europe.
Without reparation, he declared, jieaee will be impossible.
He said that the Allies feel that they should know, before enter
ing upon negotiations, that Germany is prepared to accede to the
only terms on which could Ik obtained a peace for Europe which
would also Ih maintained.
He declared that so far there have been no real proposals for
peace. , :: ; . ' ' ' ;:;:::v - ;
Kmphasizing that the Allies have not had definite suggestions for
Ieace terms, Lloyd George said that for the Lntente to enter into
proposals of Avhich they had no knowledge, would lie to put their
heads into a noose with the rope end in the hands of Germany.
Continuing, the premier, pointed out that much as theAllies long
m a -i a. - ' a . i t jil' r -a a , . a.
lor an nonorauie peace, ihhii tne note wnicn tne central rowers nave
transmitted through the neutrals, and Chancellor von Iiethmann-Holl-weg's
s)eech, afford but small encouragement and hope for an honor
able and lasting peace. V
''Our answers will be given in full accord with our allie,- the
premier told the house, amid cheers." ''Each of us, separately and in
dependently, has arrived at the same conclusion. I am glad that the
t. i. .... : l.-. t-. ,i t , . '
He announced also, in discussing continuance of the war and
uritisn poncy ior ics prosecution,
he 'nationalized' iu the true sense
The formal reply of the Allies will le made in a few days, he in
formed the house. "'We will wait," he continue!, uintil we hear what
terms and guarantees, are surer than those which Germany broke.
Meanwhile we continue to trust in an unbroken army.' - -
He asked with scorn whether "all the outrages which Germany
has committed on land and sea" had leen liquidatexl by a few pious
phrases alout humanity." ;:
Lloyd George characterized Chancellor von Kethmann-Hollweg's
fpeech in the Ileiehstag a constituting in wibstance a denial of the
only peace terms possible. I He referred to the Irish qnestmn as a
misundei-standing which it is hoped will be removed, and said that its
settlement would be a great measure toward a successful prosecution
of the war. Turning to matters of colonial policy, he said that the
dominions should be consulted more formally by England, and that
an imperial conference would soon be held. . V"
; When the i-emler entered ; the crowded house of common. !
was clieered tumultuousl The liberals cheeied; lustily when 111--Premier
Asquith entered. , . ' ' r-. r
of the Central Powers and
the Reichstag give scant
the British premier, told
outlines the policy or .the
L.A
lUfore crowilttl neata and ; pal-
oriiu u compieie guanuiiee uitiuM
inai uunng uie war snipping win
of the word. " - - -.
