Save This Paper
When Through With It Give It
to the School Children
fUrijtnonfi STirnes ?
chri^taaaS^
s Noppt^s":
SFF Sl'GOFSr&vP
/?V OU&
^ TO VMOP '
66th YEAR
v?i,i ji k <i?
M >1111:11 :wa
RICHMOND, VA., TUESDAY, DECEMBER 19, 1916. ?TEN PAGES.
rA?B,,,5KR ?CLEAR
PRICE, TWO CENTS
NATIONAL GUARD i
SYSTEM ABSOLUTE j
FAILURE IN CRISIS!
Mobilization for Border De- i
scribed by General Wood
as a Tragedy.
UNIVERSAL TRAINING
URGED BY ARMY MEN
Country Now Declared to Be Ut
terly Defenseless Against
Well-Organized Foe.
S. N'KKDS FOUCF. OF 1,500.000
Would Unvp States Maintain I'on
stahtilary for Preserva
tion of Order.
I Ry A*.?oulal??fl J
WASHINGTON', I (cosmlicr IS.-?The
mobilization of the National Ouarrl for
border sirvlcfi was described as a mili
tary rallure. emphasizing she urgent
ntpcsslty of aba riddling the volunteer
system as tlie nation's relianee for de
fense. in statements to-day by .Major
General Scott, chief of staff of the
army, and Major - General Leonard
Wood, ? ominanding the Kastcrn l>e
partmcnt, before the Senate sulicom
mittee considering the < .'hamberlaln
universal tnilitary training bill.
Moth of the generals advocated uni
versal training. General Wood d<?
clared that the country now was utterly
defenseless against a well-organized
foe: that the mobilization was a
tragedy, and that If the guardsmen
bad met good troops they "would
never have known what hit them."
'leneral Scott told the committee that
lessons drawn from the present war
pro.ed that in case of war with a
first-class power the !*nit<*d States
would need immediately a trained
force of 1.:,00.000 men. with another
1,500.000 available within iilnetj days
Walter i? Fisher, of <*hicago. former
Secretary of the Interior, opposed uni
versal service, and suggested a rcgulat
army of half a million lie thought if
the pay of privates were raised to j;t <
a month the service would be more at
tractive to recruits.
oiu;a.\i/.A'iions <;o to nni<i>i:it
riLi.KO with i.hkkn >ti:\
< General Wood, from whose depart
ment went k.*?.000 of the guardsmen
sent to the border, said of the men
enrolled when the call came, an aver
age of Si per cent of each company
had to be dropped for physical defects,
and the organizations went to the bor
der filled up with green men.
"It's been a tragedy." lie said, "but
worth all the cost if we only profit by
it. It was not the fault of the officer
?>r men. but of a defective system. If
we had been compelled to meet good
troops down there, it would have been
a scene of carnage. The guardsmen
would never have known what hit
t hem."
"What should \v ?? do with the Na
tional Guard, general?" Senator Hrady
nsked.
"It should be replaced as rapidly as
possible with men trained under a
universal-service system." General
Wood replied. "When the system has
been well started I would drop th
National Guard entirely from any
scheme of national defense, althonv'
we want every officer and man of them
, In the new plan. Rut it must be a
ntralghtout Federal force."
"Yet the States must maintain the
National Guard or some other force,"
Senator Brady suggested.
"I believe a constabulary should be
maintained by each State, not a mili
tary force." explained the general.
"The police are trained to control, while
troops are trained to kill. There is
less resentment when men are handled
by police than when troops are called
out. The people feel it Is the police
man's business*."
General Wood outlined his plan,
which In effect would be a combination
of the Chamberlain bill itself, an adap
tion of the Australian system, and the
French general staff plan. Mis scheme
would give all physically fit men siv
. months training during their nine
teenth year, passinir tb?-m into the or
ganized reserve, to be available for
first line duty only between the ages
of twenty-one anil twenty-two, after
which they would be passed into the
unorganized reserve until twenty-nine.
The result would be a constant force
of trained men with full equipment of
more, than 4.000.000, he said, in addi
tion to a standing army of 250,000.
composed of men who were professional
soldiers by personal inclination. "1 do
not think nny nation would attack us,"
he remarked.
THINKS NATION WOl l.l)
APPnOVB I'MVKItSAI. TRAININIJ
* Senator Thomas asked what the cen
tral thought of the feeling of the na
tion toward universal service proposals.
"1 believe the people wll indorse It
to-da.v," General Wood answered.
"Labor is with you when you make it
absolutely certain that all- men. rich
or poor, wi'I share alike in military
service."
general Scott will go into details as
the mobilization when be resumes
V ? is testimony to-morrow.
General Scott, disclosing much of the
Army War College material hitherto
regarded as confidential, shows that
the army general staff now believes
that Instead of 600,000 available men.
?Which It considered sufficient as a start
to defend the country against Inva
sion, the country should have 1.500.000
fully trained men at the beginning of
a war, with a like number ready to
follow In ninety d.iyk The change is
based on the development of the Brit
ish army, the. irganization of great
Canadian forces, and the British nl
liance with Japan.
With such a force available, the army
'general staff. General Scott said, con
" (Coiitfnued on Second Page.)
Cold Wave Forecasted
for Southeast i o-Day
WASH I\(iTO Vi tlrrrmlirr is.?A
Ntorm moving norllinnrd along the
Atlantic Count to-night left lienvy
"n"w". mid vrlll continue uurtli, (hr
Wfntlirr lliiremi niivn, with rduit
Htnl colli urntlirr.
The Ntorm, crnlrrrd to-night of!
the North < nrollnn conxl, Itnd trav
eled from nortlieu*t 'I'ejn* In twen
ty-four hours, milk I UK n npeeil von- i
nldered rcmnrknhle, I>y the nrutlirr
npfrlN. Storm itHrnlngN nrrr ?lIm
pin 1 id along the entire Atlantic
I'OHMt nortli of .laeknotivllle mid ex
treme i'?ull(in mii* urged for whip
ping.
The cold hiih|> which took teni
perNturen 10 to :t.% ileRreeM he Ion
iiormnl o\er the whole country east
of the ItockicH, probably will lust
for neve nil ilnyft. The lorreM tem
lirmlurr reported to-ilny mm in
degree* helorr xero ut Devil** I.Hkc,
N. II. A cold nave nun foreenwt for
the Southenntern State* for to-inor
ron.
j Mu>or Ainslie to ('all f*oiifcrrnrc it
His (Mice to Plan
Recepi ion.
MA* T.\KK FOUM OK I'AHADK
Troops Will Hp (Quarto ret! at Local
Armories t titil I'li.vsical Kvamina
lions Are Matlr and Mph Are
Formally Mnstereti Om.
\iigiii:a's first contingent of leturn-.
i:>g guardsmen will be given a hie r-- -
P t >o n when it reaches Richmond,
where the First Infantry, ordered home,
last nislit i,) the War I>epartin*ht. will
be f'Tnully mustered nut of the Fed
eral service, Into wh ch it was called
? Xactl.v s? \ months a-jr, to-dav. T-ri
tati\e plans for the /eceptlon of ;h?
rtianlxii' ii li.j \ - a!ready be?-n sri??I^.
i?ut will be elaborated upon to-morrow,
?Aii^ri Mayor < l^orsji- Ainslie will hold
a <'<>nfcr?tice with ? number of former
j militiamen. rlt> officials anil others in
terested Ir: making the boys f, el that
they a re wii!ro:jir hotne.
??wing to th- severity of the weather
? v is doubtful just what form the wel
come to the returning militiamen will
take. 1 here Is a possibility, however,
that the regiment will he met at the
train ami escorted to tlie local armories,
in which the companies will he quar
tered pending the formal mustering
out. A big feed will await the boys, i
ianil other stunts arranged.
Mayor Ainslie last night expressed
Ins ln>pe that Itichniond wouhl show hj
its welcome that It Is fully alive to the
sacrifices the young guardsmen have
made in their long and hard tour of
service. He is heartily in favor of the
idea of giving a bit; reception to the
kha\i-clad youngsters on th>-!r return.
MA Kilt F \\ tilts
I'lAN nut WKM'IIMK
"Kvery one will be In favor of a big
welcome." Mayor Ainslie said. "The
plans should 1.,. the result of a con
ference i > f those familiar with such
affairs when plans could be better
worked out. I will be glad to call such
' a conference for the purpose of takint;
.up the ma 11 er."
The Itichmond Grays' Battalion, com
posed <>f four companies and com
manded by Major .1. Fulmcr Bright, is
i part <.f the First Infantry. This was
tl..- Hrst regiment from Virginia to en-,
train for the Mexican border, preceding
the Second Infantry, however, by onl>
a few hours. There are nearly .100 j
Richmond young men in the battalion,
while there are a nuiiber scattered
j among the other companies of the regi
m ent.
That Richmond will g!ve a royal wel
come to its returning sons is the
opinion of Major Lawrence T. Price,:
former commander of the <1 rays'* Bat
talion. as well as othtrs consulted last
night.
"I feel assured that Richmond is go
'?ng to show the proper spirit in wel ?
? mmlng the boys home," said Major
Brier. "They have done their duty
well and without complaint. If any
jelty has the right to feel proud of its
: men. Richmond has in the Grays' Bat- j
1 tnllon.'
MAY NOT KKACII IIKItC
IIKFOHK NFAV VKARS i
It !? hardly probable that the regi
ment will entrain before another week !
; >r ten days, and there is not much j
| chance that the infantrymen will I
| reach here before New Years, on ac
I count of the fact that it will be. no
; small matter for the government to |
i assemble the necessary railway equlp
i inent to handle the lfi.000 men ordered
home yesterday. The Virginians, how- j
ever, may l e the first to get away, In
which even they may reach Richmond
during the holiday week.
| That a big crowd will see the hoys
I enmi! home is assured. The tentative
; plans discussed last night call for a ,
! civic parade to welcome the guards
! men. The John Marshall High School j
! Cadet Corps, the Boy Scouts, the First :
I Regiment Association and the 1,000!
| browned militiamen in heavy marching 1
j order, hended by Governor Henry Onr
I ter Stuart and his staff. Mayor George j
| Ainslie, city officials and former mili
tary men, would make an imposing j
sight. The Scouts and cadets, and 1
probably a volunteer band, would ;
furnish th" music. The weather is!
the only drawback to the plan.
The regiment will lie quartered In
the three local armories, the Adminis
trative Board having given the neces
sary permission. After arriving here
it will he necetisar.v for the companies
to inake out muster rolls, have the
men examined physically and. finally,
given written discharges. They will |
also receive a final payment, which in
cludes the savings they have made out
of Ihe liberal clothing allowance. AB
of this will take a week or ten days
The responsible property officers of the
(Continued on Fifth Page.)
FIRST REGIMENT
IS ORDERED HOME
Other Virginia Guardsmen Not
Yet Relieved From Duty
on Border.
KEEN DISAPPOINTMENT FELT
Returning Soldiers Expected to
Arrive at State Camp by
January 5.
[Special to The Ti nes-1>ispatch-1
W A S II 1 N G T <? N*. 1 >e. ember 1 S.?
S<MT.unry of War BiiK'-r to-night, an
nounced tli.it lif twpin 10.000 anil 17.000 I
addiiioiui I national guard- in*-n, iiniud- j
inn the First Virginia Regim* nt. had
l)prn ordered home. All of llw'in are
x???! to arrive at lii*vr respective
State i kiii|)s not la'.T than January ?">.
K'm-ii disappointment was t* It among
Virginia <'otig rt-.s-men t.o-night wh.-n it (
was found that till' Second Virginia
Re>rim> !it h.id bcfii 1'ft on'. ,1; was
not expected RinTiil'y that the Blue*
??ttd units recently sent South would b?
Included, but the most vigorous i?i -
surf had been brounht to luar upon th*
War Department to wnd the two in
fantry commands home at th" same
tim?
<"?n Saturday. War Department of
ficials had led the Virginians t?> hop*
that both regiments would cl their
return orders not Inter than Christmas.
This was jjiven out at the lime, but
to-day's ?1 velopments show that a
wide misund"tstatiding has exi-'ted us
to e*a? tly what Secretary Baker said
about t li?? department | lans.
Kv^n so. more tha- i .?????? Virginia
troop-4 have J.t-h given a most a-cept
;ible fhristt' is present. "'"he men of
tlu First will be moved out of Browns- I
\-l ? just as soon as transportation can
}>.? otovidfi for them. It is too much
t.. that they will l>e home by
Christ mas. but it ic more thon probable
that they will reach their State camp
before New Year's
MtllK I P or I'OMI'AMKS
in ? i:\trai. sicrriox
The First Regiment is mad" up of
companies in th^ Central and South' rn
sections. Two compunies of the regi
ment are from Lynchburg, R?*pre?enta
tive Glass's home town Others are
from Danville. Farmvill" and the
Southwest.
The Second Regiment, which is 1 ?? ft
behind, is known as the "Valley" regi
ment. It is composed of companies
from Winchester. Front Koyal. I.uray,
Woodstock and other Valley towns.
Congressman Class to-day received
from th<* War Department official in
formation of the order issue>l for the
return of the I'lrst Virginia Regiment
front Brownsville. Mr. Glass immedi
ately wired General Funston. at Fort
Sain Houston, asking if the Christmas
boxes prepared by the homefolks for
the boys should no forward or be held.
To-night the following reply was re
ceived :
"Fort Sam Houston. Tex .
December IS. IPln.
"Hon farter Glass. Washington. D. C.:
"Replying to your wire uf this date,
it is estimated that the First Virginia
Infantry Regiment will not leave the
border until a few days after Christ
mas period. 1 would suggest that
boxes be sent to their present station
at Brownsville.
(Signed) "FITNSTON."
Titus it would seem the First Vir
ginia Regiment will p< t back about
January 1. Congressman Glass thinks
the Second Virginia Regiment will l>e
ordered back very soon.
mo ronrr. to st.\i i nth.
pkiisi:i\g is iii:cai.i.i:i?
l lty Associated 1'ress 1
W A SHIN G T O N. December 1R.?
It was ofllcially stated at the War De
partment to-night that the order for
the return of H.000 national guards
men for muster out of the Federal ser
vice was not to be construed as fore
shadowing a movement out of Mexico
by General Pershing's column Of
ficials also explained thrt a force of
75,000 guardsmen would be maintained
on the border until Pershing was with
drawn. and that to-day's order merely
was in pursuance of the previously an
nounced policy to reduce the militia
to a minimum.
It is generally ,nder:'tood here that,
when the expedition Mn Mexico is with
drawn the entire guard force will he
returned to home points for muster out.
General Pershing's withdrawal de
pends largely upon lite action of Gen
eral Carranza on the agreement sub
mitted to him recently by the Mexi
can commissioners, which authorizes a
"conditional recall of the American
troops In Mexico within forty days
from the date it is signed by the two
governments
VlItOIMAXS OM.^ MH Til 131? X
troops ixci.i dim) ix OHi?i:n
SAN ANTONIO. TKN.. December IS.?
In compliance with instructions from
the War Department to relieve Na
tional Guard organization of border
duty as conditions warrant. General
Funston to-day designated 16.000 State
troops to be returned to their home
stations and mustered out of the. Fed
eral service. The troops will move
homeward in three units, the first unit
to entrain within a few days. The
release of the guardsmen* included in
the order will leave about 7fi,00(i State
troops still on border duty.
The only Southern troops included
in the order were the First Infantry
Regiment of Virginia, which is in Ihe
second unit. The. other troops affected
are from Maryland, Pennsylvania.
Michigan. Missouri, Nebraska, Illinois.
Iowa, New York. Wisconsin, Minne
sota. Kansas and I'tab.
If *
Denth of A. II. Steel.
i In * ?.s<n i- teil Trews I
ATLANTA! GA.. December 17. -A R
Steel, part owner and former president
>f the Atlanta and St. Andrews Da
Railroad. died at his home here to
I lay, after an Illness of several months
ile was sixty-one years old.
SWEEPS OVER CITY
Heav'est December Fall in Many
Years Cripples Traffic
on Streets.
CAUSES INTENSE SUFFERING
Cars Struggle Through Increas
ing Drifts With Growing Dif
ficulty and Delay.
Mntlioi'i'il bv th?- i igittg ? ).i n t ic mid
driven to mfet i< tm.Mirr blasts from;
?tli" West. a ? now-(lli<d .s!..rm
whipped over |; , hi>ond Yesterday a f
ternoon and. ?-ui)tii<iiincr through a
bitter night. left i t >. ? |;;?<. (.,?I] ove: ?
Ill"" city and :> train of suffering for
man and l>east whl? ii t will take rinvs
| to relieve. Cnheraldet] save by the
warning sent o;jt l.y the I'nited States!
Weather Bureau. 111.? storm hurst from
low-hang in ST. lead-colored clouds, and
the snow fell in blinding. stinging
-beets. -imil I'over.-Ml ?l It \ pavement
and giving a < "ll r ? ? t ma :?> glo.-< to the
skyscrapers rislnu ir< th<- central busi-l
ro-ss section.
t o in ^ tli. ? . was UMl" r??
i?ort of material damage. Both the
Western I'nion and tho Costal tele
; graph companies state.! tl.it their ser
vice had been uninterrupted, and that
they were In vomplcte mmuuicutlon ;
with all points of the compass, re
lay in the street car .-??rvice was o. -.
casion'Mj in the lat- afternoon. |? wa.?
; unavoidable, and. under the cir.-um
: stances, the c.-,mpan\ ri<d the it
I could to facilitate homewnrd-hound
'? citizenry. Swenpors w ? i <- p! v-ed on
ilie tracks, and many of lite cars were
equipped with snow plows. s?i thai ihe
rails were kept, for the main part,
i clear ? linginc snow. i'ars moved all .
j night to keep the tracks open.
Automobile and other vehicular |
traflic was frequently .storm-bound. In ,
j many instances automobiles were tin- .
able to climb to Broad Street from
Alain, and were forced t.> reach their
destinations by more circuitous routes.
Horses were frequently stalled, arid
hundreds of them f?* 11 t? ? their I . n ? ? o s um
they attempted the perilous steps to
higher way.-.
m;\ i;it m. At cii)i:.\'i>
to ri-:ui;sTitia \s
Several accidents to pedestrians wire
reported, and there were several minor j
.casualties caused by slipping and run
away automobiles. Traflic officers,
sheltered as they are in their covered
posts, experienced difficulty in seeing
traflic well enough to move it with the i
j usual ease. Frequently they had to
; step from their shelters to warn pedes- j
trians at dangerous crossings and to j
halt the almost unending movement of |
vehicles. i
Hut the rlay and night passed with
out serious Injury to man. Beasts ot
burden fared oven worse, and In their
name the Society fur the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, through its asrent.
K. C. Taylor, last night issued an ur
gent appeal that they he loaded lessj
heavily to-day. Many times yesterday
Agent Taylor made drivers lighten
their horses' burdens and warned them
that he would not brook too heavy !
hauls.
of the suffering among the poorer j
classes there can be no accurate ac
count. since it was not an hour for
statistics, but a time for charitable re
lief. Many families found themselves |
i without fuel. Others w ? ! forced to j
buy wood by the block or stick, and !
coal by the bag. So, shivering: grimly
behind cracked doors and broken win
dows. they lit their little tires and be-:
, fore the feeble flames waited for a rift
in the skies anil the dawn of a sunlit
morrow.
iiiTTuit \\i:atiii-:m m'ki.i.s
WA XT AM) M rrnniN(i j
j To them and their, charges the snow
| was not a thing of delight. a bb-sslnu
: in disguise, a means of sport and a >
pretty carnish for the ground. To
them the snow and .the hitter blasts j
spelled want and suffering, an incre
ment t<> the burden which before had
rested so heavily on their shoulders,
i So far as th".v could and as often as
: they might when the call was sounded
by an humble supplicant, the Associated
(Charities and the City Mission and
other charity organizations gave relief.
The condition of the streets made the
! task the more difficult, and some sup
plies destined for abodes of want did
! not arrive. The work of relief will be!
-continued to-dav and as long as it may
l>e necessary. Because of the high and
increasing cost of food and fuel, charity
: this year is necessarily behindhand In
, its mission. The coming of the early
! storm lends an added touch to the ap
peal. and briars home the greatness of
the need.
The storm wjik the worst for the
; month since 1000, and the snowfall Is
the heaviest recorded during tho same
month since isiis. At s o'clock last
night tiie fall had reached a depth of
'?It inches, according to Director Kvnns,
of ihe local Weather Bureau. in De
cember. IflOO, the fall reached a depth
I of 7." inches. The fall of yesterday
was 7.0 inches less than the famous
snow of February, ISO1*, when tho depth
was 17.2.
TI-IM I'KK ATI Hi : IS FIKTKHX
DKCItlOKS IIIOI.OW Mill MA I.
The thermometer at S o'clock was 2a
! degrees. 15 degrees below normal for
j the day. which gi-.'s an idea of the
' intense bitterness of Ihe weather and
? the driving, penetrating power of the
! -Mild. The forecast for the day inspires
to hope in that dear skies may be ex
j pected, but it will continue cold and
| probably will be colder.
Fulfilling its threat through the
morning, the snow begin! falling at
} ibout II o'clock. It came down like
' nigar dust, in particles so small lhat
? hey penetrated through every crevice
j n door and window and made their
ay through every form of wrap and
over. By late afternoon, when the
arkening streets were llghte^l agaiiie*
he gloom, and wpnderers of the street
verc seeking o.'ery avenue to shelter.
(Continued on Third i'nge.)
Total of French and British Losses
* mounts to 5,100,000, Says Berlin
! By AKMciattrt I'rt's. I
Drrfiulifr I ?? I tin _t
?IIIo.?Tlir IciNsct of die l**rrn?*h
arm * (<i dnlr luitr lirrn II.MMI.OOII,
nnd of lli? llrltinli. I iivi-ord
Inn to **i'oni|irlrn( military nu
tliorlfj," nnjn tut OvrmriiM r nr>
U'ltc) ntiilriiii'nl to-dii.v.
On lltr Kitnr :tutItorit ?. (lie l"rrn?l.
Iimnr, on (he Sonttnr op to lltr mil
<>l Nutrmltrr tire rntimntrd til t? it
Iran limit iittil tllonr ot tlir
Urill.oli (It nrtll.tMMI.
lltr Ntnlrrnrnl nn.iv:
" I'lif tntnl I'rnii li lonnrn ilttrr tlir
IfKinnlns "f tlir IV it r ItHVr lirrn
::,KIIII.OtM?. nnd lltr llritinh liKKrn
l,:tlM?.tKMI. i.t ultocrt Itrr. .".IIHMHHI.
rhi-ir ItKiirm jirr lin*"tl on ino?l rr
litililr tin III. 'lltr? <lo not iiii'liiitr tlir
lonnrn of ihr t'olori'il troops ?if Im! It
tlir I'rrnrlt mill llritinh nrniics lull
nn tlirnr i-olor-d ntllillnrt lroo|is
?rf IIIn aM llnc-il (in rntlfh tin |ionnil?|r
in crmt iittnrKn, t li ? total of l,-rfnrIt i
rtttil llrltinli lonnrn |itol>nltlt in nr\- |
rrxtl liidtilrrd t It oil nil nil hlultrr.
"In Ihr rngnRrntrtiln ntthr>nnnnr
.nlni'r Jul* I. I-III I'rr n?'h nntl llrltinli
d I 1 in in tin hit \ r lirrn r m |tlit yr ll. 'I'ltfttr
Mrrr drown from nil |inrtn of lltr
front from tlit ui'rnti to >tvit/.rrlnnd.
'I'lir llllljorlty of tlirnr ilitlnionn.
uftrr short rrntx, rrtiimrd tnlrr or
rvrn llirrr or four tlinrn to tl?r
f root.
??'I'lir I'rrnch lonnrn on llir Siimnti1
ti|? to tlir roil ol Novpnihrr ?rr rn(l
inutril im nt Irn.nt LTiitJIDO, nnd tlir
llrltinli nt Jiftn.tNM) turn. 'I'hnn tlir
lotiil of I'rriit'li stud llrltinli lonnrn
on tlir *?omuir ttrr I'linnrn (ltlvrly
rntltnntod i?n ttl Irimt :nlM>,IH)tl mro.
Tlirj, tlirri-forr, rturrd i-onnldrrtll?ly
tlir lirrninn lonnrn tin rntimntrd by
?.r r innn y "n rvrmlrn n t K'.III.IMM) mm.
:? ninltrr ot f:irt, tlir tirrmnii
lonnrn ttrri* III lit-h Irnn limn .VMMHM)
mm. \t thr nmnr tlmr it mtmt lir
lukrii Info t'onnlilr rn I ion tliut it limit
T?i |tfr ii-nl ol nil tlir t.rrintin
tToiindril. nftrr n nliitrf llmr. nrr
I Kill I- to i rill I'll to tlir front. (Imiikn
| Ml tlir r \ i?r I Ir it t lllrillrnl r*rr tln-T
| rrfri\i> nnd tlir h<t(!i ntiiuding of
l.rruiin Mirurrf."
SMS NORFOLK COURT
?Makes No Dincrpino Whether Tliei
J*lve Willi l-'atnilii>s or Not,
?Judge State*.
OPINION IN |.|V1-lSK
Instructions I |ilioliiinK ( nntoniioii
? ?r the Co in miss ion c- \(>,
' .Men HtMlareil Kntitleil
i?> "Privilege* mill Immunities."
Ita.h.Mors. whether living ?iti, thel,
ami i..,s ..)? ii,.t. have viii.i. n,,.
, Prohibition law a,Hi are entitled t?
1 piivib'ges and immunities
tI)u, ,.)U. |o
.Minn II. Ilu rick el. Cur
!">i a (It?u i'onri.
^ I ho insiructions. given in u,o
v I.. Miilmnoy. a former liquor dealer
"f Norf?>lk. were as follows:
?The ?'o,jrt instructs the jurv ili.it a
man. though unmarried ami having no
fam.ly ,,f his own. may have ? home'
?HIi n the meaning of the .State pro
hibition law ami is entitled to the
' v I legos and '"""unities therehv al
lowed." '
I'ltonlorrio.v to.M.iiissioMoit's
C O.VTi:\TIO.\ NOT AI.I.OWKD
'...strmMion. upholding lb- coiu-ntlon
i ' rohlhltlon Commissioner that
I the phrase "a permanent residence of
a man and his family" means that a
?i.in without family has no home un
| der the law and cannot, tl orefore. Keen
! ardent spirits in his possession w.?re
not allowed h.v the court.
The rejected instructions were ore
pared by (!uy T. Horner, attorney for
he Prohibition <'ommiss:on<r for the
Hasten, district of the State. rom.
nionwealtii's Attorney i >. j.. shack le
I K.u assisted in the prosecution.
The jury, after beinn out several
hours, was unable to reach a verdict
| and was discharged. The case will be
tried over. Other questions than that
| on which the court's instructions were'
avorahle to the defendant were in
volved. and the defense was unable to
overcome the prima facie evidence ,,f
sales established under tlvj law by
the possession of large quantities of
lU|ii<?r.
Ma honey was Charged with selllnj, !
ardent spirits. barge quantities of i
liquors, beer and wines were found in
Ills possession at his home. I lis de
fense was that he had the right to,
keep the I quor in his home and, to
rebut the prima facie evidence of intent
sell, claimed that it was a remnant
of his lett?over stock kept after No-I
* ember I, and was for his personal!
Use. The court's instructions upheld
his t.rst contention, but the Jury could
not auree that he was innocent of sell
big the liquor. j
ATTOIt MOV "I'd INSTITITIO
lot Iff I'ltunoiilllM.s
"? ??. Humphries, attornev for Ma-'
honey, announced lo-night that court!
proceedings will be instituted to force
release of the liquor shipped to Nor
folk from Mahoney's lliiltimorc house, j
and which was ordered held tip by |
agents of the inhibition fomniis- i
iioner.
The grounds of the suit are that the
, Slate law as to marking packages . on
| tabling liquor constitutes an Interfer
I ?Miee uiih the right of Congress to
rcirubito interstate commerce. ,\ Colo
rado court already has dfcided a simi
lar case in which a similar provision
if the prohibition law was involved.
said Mr. Humphries to-n'ght.
WILSON GREETS SAILORS
jSl.nkr? Hand* ,,vn M||w SnT
?hey Are Oldest nnd \ mingest
?? the \nvjr.
\\ ASIll.VOTO.V. Hecember is. i'res
tr Zi'i ??"*' ",o"k ????>
??l'l th.-y ,1,
oldest and youngest in the navy.
! I key were ainoiic twenty-live en
, listed men from the I trend nought Ne
! ^.!1 \* ,,ou Hi Norfolk, hrouq lit to
| Washington by their chaplain for a
liriMinir. trip because their homes are
rar a way.
The youngest was l.ioyd Cornell
sixteen, and tlie oldest u as .lames M,.'
. urthy. sixt.v-ono.
FOOD RESTRICTIONS BEGIN
HotrK and Hesta,lrl,n? ,n K?Klf1 Iul
orblddeo to Serve 11 ore Tlian
Kour ( ourncM.
I .< > NI )< i N. Iiecember is.?The first
food restriction Wet i?io force i?
Kugland to-day. Hotels and restau-!
rants are now forbidden to serve more
than four courses for breakfast oil
uncheon, and three courses for din
tier.
GERMANS DRIVEN FROM I
CHAMBRETTES FARM
Taken in Latest Thrust on
Vertlun Front Now
lotal 11,(MM).
V<)\ MACKKXSKX STII.l. (JAINS
Kab.-ulai*h-l'r< iiif>?na |,inr Crossed by
Teutonic Troop*. Who Nmv Vlr
tn illy Mold All farnuud Previously
Won in N'ortlieru Dnhruiljii.
: |jv > ?Ki-ititPre<s. I
French troops have regained 11-?f- ph
lire occupa nrv of the ("liambrettes
farm, northeast of Verdun, and atiout
tin* center of their advance of lust
wocli I 'risoners taken in the latest
French thrust on 111 o Verdun froo
now total more than 11.000, in addi
tion to 11.'. cannon and 107 machine
guns captured or destroyed. Paris re.
p.. ts tlie repulne of several German
offensive attacks In tin- SoT.me region.
In the region of Hu/eu. Heriin states,
t he soldiers of Field Marshal von
Mat'kensen have b?-eti successful in
minor engagements. Petroprad asserts
that in the region of the Flllpcchti
railroad station, east of Huzeu, hostile
attacks were arrested.
The P.ahadagh-Peclneaga \lne. about
forty miles north of the Tehernavoda
f'onstnnr.a railway, lias been crossed
by tilt* Teutonic troops, who now have
taken virtually all the ground they
held during their previous advance ?
Northern Dobrudja. The advance in
1>obrndta brings the forces of the oen
tr;il fiowers near the important rail
road and storage centers of Ihraila and
Oa lat>:.
i ?n the Western Moldavian frontier
the llussians have taken two ridges
of heights, according to Petrograd.
One ridge was in the t'znl Valley and
the other east of (ialshut t e. where more
than 'JO i prisoners were captured.
Kxcept fo.- the r?pulse of Itusslnn
Attacks bv the AiMtro-Oermnn forces
near I.utsk, in Volhynia, and near
Xboroff. in Gallcia, there has been
ilttle activity on the other battle
fronts.
(iinniws sr.rniK nxirivti
\T I'll AMIIHKTTKS FA KM
I lly Assic|nte<l pre-is 1
I'AHIS, December IS.?French forces
have taken I1.H87 German i>risntiers on
the Verdun front since the 15th of De
eemlur. ac.-or lina to the French War
Ofllce announcement this afternoon.
A violent German counterattack on
the Meuse has resulted in German
forces securing a footing at the Cham
brettes farm.
ahtii.i.fim oi'r.itationn
0\ >HC|.;t)OMtV FltO \'T
I Hy Assrtcl.it???! Press, I
BKItLl.V, Heetmlier is (via Sayville).
?Only artillery operations on the
Macedonian front tire reported in to
day's army headquarters statement,
which ready:
"Macedonian front: There has been
temporarily lively artillery firing in
the bend of the t'erna."
Fi?r,.\< ii (m i rv a\hw
< iia >n?ui:rri:s fa it m
f"v ,\"si>i'iHte<l Pre-" 1
I'AKIS. l>coniber IS.?The bulletin
issued by the War t (flice to-night
reads:
"South of the Somme there was quite
pronounced activity of the two artil
leries In the sector of I,a Maissonotte.
At I o'clock this morning an enemy
detachment which attempted to carry
out a surprise attack against our
trenches south of Fresnes was repulsed
by grenades.
"t?n the riclit I'ink of tlif Meuse our
troops, in a spirited engagement, drove
th* enemy from the Chambrettes farm,
which we occupy anew in its entirety.
We took two machine guns.
"Intermittent cannonading occurred
on tie rest of the front An enemy
iviat'jr dropped fire bombs on Vieux
Than t. No damage was done.
NOTHING OF mi'OHTA M'F.
OX M.U'KDO X * A \ FltO.vr
! 14v Assnrlatetl Press 1
I'AKIS. December IS.?A War Otlice
communication this afternoon on hos
tilities on the Macedonian front reads:
"There vuis a persistent fog Decem
ber IT along the front in Macedonia,
and no occurrences of importance have
been reported."
OFFKXSIVK IV HO I'M A MA
iiai.tki) nv itrssi.w fiuk
i Hy Associated Press 1
I.o.\Im?.N". December IS.?Teutonic
offensive in Kouiuaniu has been ar
rested by the Kussian tire, tlie llussian
War Otlice announces.
The statement intercepted by the
British Admiralty says:
"On the Koumanlan front, in the re
gion west and southwest of Itominku
(Continued on Second Page.)
BRITISH PREMIER
TO OUTLINE VIEWS
ON PEACE TO DAY
Expected to Be Most Impor
tant Utterance Since
Beginning of War.
ALSO WILL DEFINE WHOLE
POLICY OF NEW MINISTRY
Note of Central Powers Deliv
ered by Ambassador Page
Without Formalities.
to in-: laid lusroui-: caiuxkt
Xcvl Stop Then Will lie to Oct Into
< 'omiminicat Ion With Kng
Ihlid's Allies.
f Hv A 1
f.tiXfn ?x. Doccui l>or IS.?Th?% spooch
of Premier ?.?corge in the House
t?>-morrow is look'*)! forward to by tho
press and public as the most import
ant utterance of tho kind since the
memorable speeches in which Viscount
Hrey discussed whether Great Britain
would come into t Mo war. I.lo.vd
licorgp has recovered from his indis
position. ami was at work to-day. lie
will rise to address the Commons to
mort'ow at about t o'clock, and prob
ably will speak for tin hour and a
hal*.
Tho Prime Minister's speech will be
not only a reply to the tierman peace
noto, but also will outline the whole,
policy of the new national government,
tho trend of which may be roughly
anticipated from the fact that the new
ministry is avowedly in power for the
definite object "of carrying on the war
with all rhe vigor the nation can com
mand to a successful end."
To-day's news from government cir
cles included tho announcement of the
departure of Air. lialfour, the Secretary
for Foreign Affairs, for .three weeks'
vacation. Although his vacation comes
at an important juncture, affairs are
permitted to proceed uninterruptedly
under the direction of Lord Robert
Cecil and Haroti Harding, the under
secretaries. while the larger Questions
of general policy doubtless will receive
the attention of the War Cebinet, over
which tlie Prime Minister presides. Lord
Curzon and Mtlner also being members
with wide diplomatic experience.
HA I.Ii'Of !t\S A IIS 10X n:
in:K to indisposition'
It is recalled that Mr. Balfour's deslg
j nation as Foreign Minister met with
?severe criticism from the XorthclitVo
press, and l.ord N'orthcliffe himself
i urged Lloyd George to follow the pre
cedent of t.ord Salisbury in directing
Foreign Affairs its well as assuming
the premiership. While Mr. Ralfour'H
absence is said to '>e due to indisposi
tion following illness, and there is no
suggestion of its being prolonged be
yond three weeks, yet it has the effect
of leaving the shaping of the larger
policies regarding the Herman note and
foreign issues largely in the hands of
the Premier.
The peace note of the central powers
was handed to the British government
to-day by Walter lliues Page, the
American ambassador, who called at
the Foreign < ifllce early in the day. In
the absence of A. J. Balfour, the For
eign Secretary, he presented the note
to l.ord Robert Cecil, I'nder-Secretary
for Foreign Affairs. There \<
formalities in connection with the pres
entation of the peace proposals by
Mr. Pago. The note was inclosed in a
large white envelope. It was handed
by Ambassador Pago to T.ord Robert
without any comment, and the recip
ient made no reference to the question
of peace, simply thanking Mr. Page for
the transmission of the message from
the central powers.
The two diplomats spent a short time
in conversation, but. as one said. "We
talked about everything but the con
tents of tho envelope."
\OTI-: TO HI-; I'O.VMDKIIBU
HV HHITISII t'AHINKT TO-DAY
The note will be considered by the
British Cabinet to-morrow, it being re
ceived too late to-day to enable the
council to be called. Tho next step
after the meeting of the Cabinet will
be t>> get Into communication with the
allies of (?reut Britain so that joint
action may be taken. Thisiis expected
to lake at least a week.
It has been ascertained that the note
contains no terms, and the impression
prevails in official circles that until
these are disclosed a conference is im
possible.
I lie presentation of the Herman note
to the entente allied governments has
now practicallv been accomplished.
\\ hile the British Foreign Office was
receiving the document from Ambas
sador Page shortly after noon, a simi
lar delivery was taking place in Paris.
The Swiss minister at Rome has pre
sented the note of the central powers
to Italy without comment, and through
the same channel the message was pre
sented t-? Belgium and Portugal also
without comment. The Netherlands
minister tendered the peace proposals
to Serbia in behalf of Bulgaria.
Prior to receipt of the note by the
British Foreign Office, the deliveries to
Italy. Belgium and other countries had
permitted exchanges concerning the
exact official contents which proved to
be substantially the same as given in
the speech made In the Reichstag by
Chancellor von Bethmann-llollweg. and
without containing any specific indica
tion of the terms.
VOTF. IMFOUMl.Y Pltl-JSKXTIJD
WITHOLT ( OIBIKXT
It is also being1 observed in official
circles that the note was uniformly
presented without comment. This is
taken to indicate that Hennany framed
11*?* communication so that tho notjtral
intermediaries would act only as for
warding agents, at least at the outset.
Premier Lloyd George's speech in the
