' _ ~ - \
[ Fair. i?w?t l! YL ^ ^ CYr/ . 'From Pre., to Home
; SSSSSS nj hA alTYlMlffttllf ^BST^Vir ffi WithintUHoar"
for ending I . Hr r^M Br H H H H H 4HSSL
! 'waai'S-'iF'^ii wl v Ailvl 1X1UU 1?-?-?
? [ r ^ * * 7 yTJ * r ^ Sworn Ho* Circulation, Month a* NrrrnWr.
CLOSING MEW YORK STOCKS PAOU S3. ^ ISIS. Dally Areract, TB-VITi SnnSny, (MR!.
________ _ WASHINGTON, D. C., TUESDAY," DECEMBER 19, 1916?TWENTY-SIX PAGES. ?? ONE CENT,1
_-? 1 1 .' i ? 3
URGES PROHIBITION |
AS CHRISTMAS GIFT
i Senator Thompson Argues for
r the Passage of the Shepp
w pard Bill.
^ REFERENDUM IS DEBATED
Xo better Christmas present could be
Trivcn the people of the District by
congress than the pending: prohibition
kill. Senator Thompson of Kansas told
the Senate when discussion of that v
measure was resumed. s
Senator Thompson, after pointing out a
that he had introduced a number of j j*
bills for prohibition in the District \ t
arore drastic than the present pending p
bill, announced that lie favored the
passage of the Sheppard bill as a de- 4
cided step in the right direction and I
that he would support it. He strongly I
defended prohibition, and replied to ar%
guments made against it, citing the exf
peiience of his own state in making and
w enforcing prohibitory laws.
Beferendum Amendment Up.
The Underwood referendum amend,
tnent was before the Senate when the I
bill was taken up. The constitutional
I question Involved, as to whether the
Congress has the right to submit a
Question of legislation to the people
of the District for final determination,
has led to much discussion, and it
was considered doubtful whether it
would be possible to reach a vote on
the amendment or on the bill today. r
Senator Thompson referred to the L
Work of Carrie Nation, of hatchet fame,
In bringflng about the enforcement of
the prohibition law in Kansas.
"Carrie Nation enunciated the proposition
that it is not unlawful to adopt
unlawful means to put an end to unlawful
practices when she went into ^
saloons in Kansas and smashed bottles 01
and other things," said Senator ThompI
son.
He said the crusade against the liquor w
traffic started by Mrs. Nation in Kansas tl
had resulted in the strict enforcement a
L of the law there. He scouted the idea
that prohibition would bankrupt a u'
state, and Said Kansas today was one
of the richest states in the Union. p
Senator Reed of Missouri engaged in
a colloquy with Senator Thompson over n
the 'conditions resulting from the pro- rr
hi bit dry law in Kansas. Senator Reed. r;
recalling some of his experiences in
Kansas after the prohibitory law went ?
into effect, said that at that time there cj
were "more drunken people to the acre ti
in Kansas than in any other state in
the Union." He charged that beer and p
iquors are openly distributed in Kansas
City, Kan., today, and that the dis- ti
* u .'button is not interfered with by the d*
law. r<
r<
Not Opposed to Referendum. h
- m
Senator Heed declared himself will- w
lug to let the people of the District
vote on the question of prohibition.
If the people themselves desire prohibition
he bad no objection to their having it
it, he said. He compared Nebraska, *
which has only recently gone dry, with ! 81
Kansas, and declared that in spite of tl
the fact that Nebraska has permitted ! 01
'he sale of liquor within her borders j p
?he is in every respect the equal of j <j,
Kansas.
Arguments for Referendum.
Senator Underwood completed his ar- ^
gument in favor of his referendum w
amendment yesterday afternoon, and n
Senator John Sharp Williams of Mie- ^
sissippi addressed the Senate in favor
of the referendum and also in favor of v
a more drastic prohibition law, making ^
it a crime for any man to take a drink u
of liquor. e:
In contending that Congress has the
power to refer the prohibition bill to
fh#? IWOTllf Ckt thd (Hctrlnt
Senator Underwood pointed out that
when that part of the original District
lying in Virginia was ceded back to B
Virginia Congress passed a law ceding p
the territory, but making operation 0
of the law dependent upon .1 referendum
to the people affected by the jc'
cession. If Congress was acting within j p
its rights then, he contended, it would ! a
be acting within its rights now to j t(
frame a prohibition bill and make its t]
effectiveness dependent upon a vote of nthe
people of the District. c,
* " b
# Query by Senator Gallinger. tl
Senator Underwood was asked by ^
I Senator Galiinger of New Hampshire ?)
L . it he would favor referring to the peo- tl
W pie ot the District such questions as
the ImDOSitio:: of a tax on intangible a|
persona; property, enacted into law at ,.;
the last session of Congress. ^
**I would," replied Senator Under?oo<i.
"Of course, 1 do net believe It
Id be advisable to have a referen- :r
am on every little, trivial matter. But ; a,
in such matters as prohibition and a 1 j,
change i? the taxing laws imposed i ei
ipon the people I believe the people of J j
the District should have a voire."
Senator Cnderwood criticised the p
prohibitionists as fanatics and likened jj
fit-ui iu *ne w no jr. inf-ir zeal mur- '
'.fcXfcd the Hugucnotd on St. JBurtholo- '
me'.vV; eve.
Sava Women Should Vote. u
Senator William** said he would offer I 8
.. . amendment to the provision of the i 11
T u'.rwood referendum amendment'0
ealirtr v itli the voting qualifications. i 8
jo that the wo men of the Idstrict would j 0
" ;i, \'iie, inserting an educational v
.al;fication and also providing that in j,
^ >'ier to vol*- property holders must t
* lave paid all their taxes. ^
.-etr?tor Williams said he thought it
? mista.e to pass 1 he Sheppard bill, f
V ieh is not 'a leal prohibition bill,"
1 that i" aou'.d l>r better to go the
v V ole prohibition pace at once.
"1 should like to >e?? the white race
subjected to the experiment for ten p
r ..j-.- of absolutely doing without al- 5
i-ohol for any purpose or from any v
sour*-*-, ex. - pi poisoned alcohol used in j.
tl ? r's. which no man would want to
drink." said fro nut or Williams.
">*< 11 t*-.i me MornettmeK that it is J
KOOd for medicine. It is not. I had a ] "
man com*; to m<; once and any: "I v.ev
er take drink except medicinally; I ta-ie
it a> medicine.' 'Oh, well,' I .?aid,
*1 have tcot no patience w ith yon. it it?
very enlivening beverage, but it is
the poorest medicine in the world. I
have tried it for nearly everything it
was prescribed for, and it never did trie
any good for anything.' "
Senator Williams argued that it
would be only fair to pay the men engaged
in the liquor business for the
property which would be destroyed by
the adoption of prohibition.
Senator Warren Favors
Referendum in D. C. and
) Representation in Congress
Senator Warren of Wyoming, while :
advocating the referendum of the pro- j
fcibition bill to the people of the Dis- |
trict In tha " Id yesterday afternoon, I
t
icclared his belief the people of the Dterict
should be represented !n Congress,
ie said:
"A glance at recent legislation and at
he result o'f recent elections makes it
evident that the country desires to
novo in the direction oJ! the settlement
f the so-called prohibition question,
n fact, prohibition exists in the state
>f Wyoming, note in all parts except in
he incorporated cities and towns, but
>ur people believe that state-wide prolibition
should be submitted to the
roters, and more particularly so beause
for twenty-odd years they were
estricted in their voting privileges. I
nd they feel sympathy for the resi- ,
lents of the District of Columbia. They j
lelieve, as I do, that the District of
Columbia ought to be represented in
his body, and in the other body, with a
nember each; that by all means this
articular matter ought to go before
he people of this District.
"The rights of the residents of the
Mstrict are to be passed upon by legisarors,
not one of whom has been seected
by these residents to represent
hem in regard to the question at issue
r any other. The proposed legislation
/ould affect their mode of living, their
ocial life, and whatever may be done
s to other matters, this matter should
;o before the people and be voted on
efore the Congress should undertake
o control them absolutelv and com
letely in regard to it."
MWRAISE
AOOPTEDBY HOUSE
Is Committee of the Whole It
Approves 5 and 10 Per Cent
Salary Increases.
:apitol force included
The proposed increase for governlent
clerks in the departments in
Washington amounting to 10 per cent
n salaries up to $1,200 and 5 per cent
n salaries between $1,200 and $1,800
as formally adopted this afternoon by
le House in committee of the whole
fter three and one-half hours of deal*.
The only change made in the original
roposition as reported from the comlittee
on appropriations was ?n amendlent
whereby the same scale of salary
lises will be granted to the employes
f the Senate and House, who were exluded
specifically from any raises by
flA tdrms r?f hill at nHainallr
orted.
Attempts were made by Representave
Keating" of Colorado and others to
ouble these increases, but the House
sfused to make further increases. Kep?sentative
Nolan of California offered
is bill for a three-dollar-a-day rainilum
for government employes, but this
as knocked out on a point of order.
First Victory Becorded.
The first real victory tn the fight for
creased pay for government clerks
as won when Representative Borlhria
lcceeded in putting the employes under
e legislative branch of the government
i the same status, for salary-raising
rposes, as the employes of the various
epartments.
The legislative appropriation bill, as
riginaliy reported, specifically omitted
tese employes. Members of the House
eclared that this was not a liberal
plrit. Representative Borland's motion
-as bitterly fought by a small miority,
and the final vote, which brought
ictory for his amendment, was J 21 to
5.
After the Capitol amendment was j
oted on Representative Keating of
olorado offered a horizontal raise of I
9 per cent for employes with salaries !
p to $1,200 and a 10 per cent raise fori
mployes between $1,200 and $1,800.
Mr. Byrns Defends Own Section, j
The light opened with a parliamen- '
iry situation in which Representative
iyrns, in charge of legislative appror'at!f?n
hill tr. V.\a
wn section providing for 5 and 10 per :
ent raises for government clerks? 10
er cent on .salaries up to 51,200 a year j
nd 5 per cent on salaries from 53.200 ;
> 51,800. He said his proposal was i
le only one the appropriations com- |
litter could agree upon and that one j
jn3ideration was that the legislative j
i)l provides for only one-twentieth of '
le government clerks of the country !
nd that nineteen-twentieths would :
ave to be taken '-are of in other bills i
n the same scale as provided for in j
lis bill.
Representative Borland of Missouri
sked why the employes of the Capitol I
nd Senate and House were not tak?-n (
tre of in the bill. Mr. Byrne said they ;
ere here only twelve months out of !
le twenty-four months of a Congress. ;
"Uncle Joe" Cannon offered t-> *
lent making the clerks' raises vrTien en- !
eted, take eiTecl in the remainder of the j
resent llscal year instead of making the I
mpioyes wait for their promotions until !
uly 1 next. I
"God oifly knows." said he. "what the |
rices of wheat and corn will ho bv next
uly!"
Motion Causes u Mix-Up.
"( nch Joe's'' motion ?-aused a mix- :
p. Representative Harrison of Missis- .
ippi. acting as chairman of the corn- !
littee of the .whole, finally ruled it j
ut on a point of order, and Iiepre- j
tentative Mann appealed from the de- j
lslon of the chair. The House then j
oicn. .jo iu . iu : ubi ft hi me < nair
nd the Cannon motion was lost. Then
lepresentative Borland offered a moion
to include all < 'apitoi employed in
he terms of the increase.
"We oufcht not to be awepr. from our
eet b*. any \LZ> per ? erit raise-," said he,
but if v jrrant an increase v.e should
ive it to all employes and rot exclude
ny one jrroup." t
Tiepresentatlve Fitzgerald said a comlUtation
of the effect of the proposed
and 10 per cent raise showed that it
tould coat J 25.o00.O00 ana thut the
louse shouldn't try to break the govriniient's
oank with expenses. ltepreentatlve
Cooper produced a letter from a
(Continued on He.cond Pafcc.)
Carry Small Parcels
The stores and their
patrons avoid many risks
when small packages are
carried by the purchasers.
When goods must be delivered
the customer should
look at the sales slip to see
that name and address are
correct.
(let the Christmas spirit
and be mutually helpful.
I
MEN IN THE GUARD
0. K., HUES
Gen. Scott Says General Staff
Finds Fault With the
System Only.
REAL HELP ON THE BORDER
Congressional committees were again
engrossed with national defense problems
today, the House military and
naval committees dealing with necessary
appropriations to carry forward
the upbuilding of the navy and development
of the National Guard, while
Maj. Gen. Hugh H. Scott, chief of staff,
renewed his plea before a Senate subcommittee
for abandonment of the National
Guard and all other volunteer
systems in favor of universal training
and service.
Gen. Scott made it plain that the general
staff had no quarrel with the officers
and men of the guard, but only
with the system, and argued that its
defects were inherent in any plan that
was based on the inclination of individuals
toward military training.
Navy and Coast Defense.
Before the naval committee, which
resumed consideration of the 3918 estimates
after a week's delay, Capt. William
S. Sims, commanding the new
superdreadnaught Nevada, was the first
man from the active fieet to present his
views. He told of the conditions of
modern battle practice at sea and the
progress being made by the fleet toward
battle efficiency.
Brig. Gen. Weaver, chief of coast artillery,
continued before the House
military committee his explanation of
items for the coast defenses in the 1918
bill.
The National Guard force mobilized
on the Mexican border would have required
nearly a year of intensive training
to prepare it to meet trained troops,
Maj. Gen. Scott declared, in continuing
to urge universal service military
system before the Senate subcommittee.
Attack Expected Daily.
"Fortunately, the Mexicans were untrained
troops," he added, "and our purpose
to protect the border was accomplished
by the mere presence of our
men on the border without firing a
shot. We never contemplated sending
tne xsauonai uudru dvci c??c
til they had been trained, although I
sat up until 2 or 3 o'clock every morning
at the War Department, fully expecting
a message saying that the fight
was on, that Pershing's force or the
border guard had been attacked.
"We felt that the National Guard
troops would have destroyed themselves
In marching had they been sent
through that hard country. Gen. Persia
Lug's troops made phenomenal marches.
There was not a National Guard organisation
that could; have done it. It
-ifrould have killed both- meh and
horses.-' " - , /
Gen. Scott said there were 20,000 Carranza
troops around the Pershing expedition
and 14,000 more opposite Douglas,
where great American interests ar6
located. These were the points where
he looked for attack.
Guard Furnished Protection.
"We sent the National Guard down
bec&use it was all we had, and we
wanted the Mexicans to see that soldiers
were coming,'' he said. "We sent
come units almost unequipped."
"I>r. vmi think thia mobilization was
beneficial for our country?" asked Senator
.Brady.
"I do." answered Gen. Scott. "It was
very beneficial. It prevented an attack
and gave protection to American lives
and property on the border for the
first time in five years."
Asked if double the pay of privates
would improve the present system Gen.
Scott said: "If you increase the pay
of the army to a point where it would
produce a force of the size we must
have you will bankrupt the nation."
Mobilization a "Tragedy."
Maj. Gen. Leonard Wood, commanding
the Department of the East, told
the Senate subcommittee yesterday
afternoon that the sending of the National
Guard to the Mexican border
"has been a tragedy, but worth all it
cost if we only profit by it." He continued:
"it was not the fault of the officers
or men, but of a defective system. If
we had been compelled to meet good
troops down tnere, ft would have been
would n?'Vi.f "T.a ~ kno\vi"iia"
them."
"What should we do with the National
Guard, general?" Senator Brady
asked.
"It should he replaced as rapidly as
possible with men trained under a universal
service system," Gen. Wood replied.
"Wh? n the system has been wdl
tar ted. i would drop the National
Guard entirely from any scheme <-f national
defense, although we want every
officer and man of them in the new plan.
But it must be a straight-out federal
force."
Constabulary for States.
"Vet the statea must maintain tho
National Guard, or somd other force,"
Senator Brady suggested.
"I believe a constabulary should bo
maintained by each state, not a military
force," explained the general. "The
police are trained to control, while
troops are trained to kill. There is less
resentment when men ar? handled by
police than when troops arc called out.
Th* people feel It is tlic policeman's
business."
Gen. Wood outlined his own plan for
universal service, w hich in effect would
be a combination of the Chamberlain
bill itself an adaption of the Australian
system and the French general
staff plan. Ills scheme would provide
that all physically fit men be given six
months' training during their nineteenth
year, passing thexn into the organized
reserve, to be available for
first line duty only, between the. ages
of twenty-one and twenty-two, after
which they would be passed into the
unorganized reserve until twenty-nine.
4.000,000 Always Beady.
. The result would be a constant force
of trained men, with full equipment, of
more than 4,000,000, he said. In addition
to a standing army of 250,000 composed
of men who were professional soldiers
| by personal inclination. "I do not
think any nation would attack us," he
remarked.
1 Senator Thomas asked what the general
thought of the feeling of the naj
tion toward universal service propoI
"J believe the people will indorse it
Itoda: ," Cca. Wood answered. "Labor
i
I
- -* Vw-m
- MM
4
ssjjgP
is with you when you make it abso- |
lutely certain that all men, rich or poor, j !
will share alike in military service." \
Secretary Baker Undecided.
Secretary Baker told the House military
committee today that he had not
yet made up his mind whether universal
compulsory military service, or a
system of selective conscription, was
the best method of preparation for national
defense.
He discussed difficulties met with in
mobilization of the National Guard and
various <jue?tt?ns connected with tho
border, service.
Capt. Sims for 14-Inch Guns.
Before the House naval committee
Capt. William S. Sims, commander of
the battleship Nevada, asserted his '
opinion that fourteen-inch guns were
superior to the sixteen-inch weapons
with which new American battle craft
will be armed. There was wide differi
ence of opinion in the navy, but he believed
a ship equipped with fourteeninch
guns would defeat a ship equipped ;
with an equal number of sixteen-inch j
guns if properly handled. Capt. Sims !
showed a series of charts of the Jut- !
land battle. He pointed out the part I
played by battle cruisers .in that ac- j
tion and insisted that because Kuro- |
pean navies are equipped with theso |
vessels the United States also must
have them.
{
Former Secretary Fisher
? i _ r> ii !
upposes unamoenain qui
for Military Training,
Former Secretary of the Interior!
Wniter I-. Fisher of Chicago, appearing]
j before the subcommittee of the Senate j
I military affairs committee jester- ;
I day, attacked the Chamberlain bill
i for compulsory military training on the
: grounds that i* would impose an un!
necessarv burden upon the country and
i would faix to furnish the civ-lc training
! its sponsors claimed for it. He appeared
j under the auspices of the American
! Union Against Militarism, although not
! a member of that organization nor
even in agreement, with all its views,
i He was the first of '.lie witnesses to be
examined by the subcommittee, eon^^ting
of Senators Chamberlain,
"^Poma: and Brady, which has been ap- (
! pointed to hold extended hearings on 1
| the bill.
j Mr. Fisher declared, himself in favor ^
of adequate preparedness. t
' ' "J believe," h?- s; id, "there is no {
i higher duty than to provide for ade
quatc military preparedness. Hut there j (
j is a radical difference between a milt- * *
| tary policy for defense and rut ag- j 1
I trressive policy, if we are going to de- ;
! f>n?i thMonroe doctrine in its broad- |
Jest sense, v.'c i* embarking o:; i:. ;
| military impossibility." j
Plan for "First; Line of Defense.*' i
j
| To provide a first line or defense Mr. j
I Fisher suggested that th.: pay of the j
| army be doubled, that civic training j
f which would fit the men for civil life :
bo made compulsory, and that as rapid - |
ly a they could be trained men be dls- |
charged into a citizen reserve, liable
for duty in war.
"The plan proposed here is to adopt
universal training for the sake of its
civic by-product, for it is argued that
universal training will give greater civic
efficiency. Why not turn this right
around? If you'll udopt civic discipline
for the sake of its military by-product
you'll carry the country, and you can't
carry It otherwise."
it is expected representatives of the
Woman's Peace Party, American Union
Against Militarism. Farmer's Union,
National Grange and American Federation
ol' Labor also will be heard in opposition
to the measure. Members of the.
subcommittee are Senators Chamberlain,
Thomas and Brady.
President Await3 Measures.
President Wilson told callers recently he
had reached no decision on universal
training, and will not do so until definite
measures have been laid before
him. He told callers the Idea was attractive.
but that it depended on definite
plans. He does not agree that the
National Guard has failed.
To Betire Federal Judges at 70.
Federal Judges would be retired at
the age of seventy years by a bill recently
passed by the Senate and renorted
favorably to the House today
by the judiciary committee. _ ?
* 1
A
%fr
gg^ ?fci||rr
SiTFINANCf
COMMITTEE NAMED
Comnrises 195 Bankers and
Leading Business Men of
National Capital.
HEADQUARTERS NOW OPEN
!
luk.M'J.II i PORT!,
Chairman of Committee on Printing. .
The inaugural finance committee,;
;ompri.sing 19f> bankers and leading j
justness men of the National Capital, '
,vas announced tliis afternoon by Hob- !
;rt N. Harper, chairman of the in- !
cugural committee, and Arthur Peter, I
rhairnian of the finance committee. Mr. !
>r expects t ? announce several more |
housand-doilar contributions this even- :
tig.
With this announcement Mr. Peter j
nade a .statement that every one can j
est assured that the funds being con- j
ribuled for the inaugural expenses as a |
dluntary guarantee will be economically j
xpencieu. w im im; uiuugurai nail i
unit ted from the last Inaugural cere- '
norms. those citizens voluntarily con- I
rlbuting to the fund had practically 95
>er cent, of their contributions refunded,"
laid Mr. Peter. "The people of Washington
have our earnest assurance that
inly the smallest amount necessary from
heir generous subscriptions will be exjended,
and that most judiciously."
Ford Heads Printing Committee.
Chairman Harper expects to name the
tetieral inaugural committee tomorrow.
Jo announced today that Cornelius Ford,
he public printer, has been made chair- i
nan of the committee on printing. The j
rice chairman of this committee will not
>e named for several days.
The press committe.e, to have charge
>f distribution of information concernng
the inaugural all over the United
States, also was named, with Frank J3.
uord as chairman. Mr. Lord is a forner
president of the National Press
}lub, was in charge of publicity for
he Qrand Army semi-centennial cele>rat1on
here last year and performed
mportant work at the New York hendtuarters
of the democratic national
jommittee during the campaign. Grafon
H. Wilcox, president-elect of the
National Press Club, has been appointed
vice chairman of the committee,
lames D. Preston, superintendent of the
senate press gallery, has been named
lecretary, and William Donaldson, superintendent
of the House press galcry,
assistant secretary.
Other members of the publicity committee
appointed by Mr. Harper yes:erday
were:. Theodore Tiller, presidentthe
National Press Club; Richard V.
W//-///e* * +* +** I |
-j p
U/ -y L?&!T77ZWrWa^ ,^_
tNr"l?f-'l
A
w
Oulahan, chairman of the standing
committee on correspondence; Frederick
W. Steckman, Washington Post;
William P. Kennedy, Washington Star,
and E. Jesse Conway, Washington
Herald.
Headquarters Are Opened.
The workshop of the campaign committee
and the executive offices in the
gridiron room of the New Willard J
Hotel were opened for business today. ;
Alvin G. Belt, the secretary; Chairman !
Harper and Arthur Peter, chairman of |
the tlnance committee, were on hand to
welcome visitors. jCUl.e of ifceyU.
fictal acts -vrftti th<*hanfrirttf*.-'W???+
framed photographs of President Wilson
and Vice President Marshall. The
headquarters \yill bet officially open
every day from 2 a.m. until $ p.m.
The personnel of the finance com- !
mittee was announced, as follows;
Arthur Peter, chairman; John B. Bar- !
ner and Corcoran Thorn, vice chairmen, i
M. E. Ailes. E. fi. Ailes, R. P. Andrews, i
J. M. Baker. Walter C. Balderston, j
j Truxtor. Beale. C. J. Bel). Emiie Ber- i
I liner. Gist Blair. Woodbury Blair. |
j Emory H. Bogley. Edson Bradley. Joseph
H. Bradley. Thomas Bradley. Ed!
win C. Brandenburg. E. C. Brainerd.
i John W. Brawner, Alexander Britton.
I Alban li. Butler. Chapin Brown. A.
j Brylawski. Albert Carry, A. (J. Clan!
nam. C. C. Calhoun, D. J. Callahan,
j Walter C. Clephane, John W. Clifton.
| John B. Cochran. Charles L Corby, W.
| H. Corby, Dr. Thomas A. Clay tor, Dr.
Randolph B. Carmiohael. Henry I>.
J Crampton. Jules Dernonet, L. Kemp Du- ;
vail. P. A. Drury. S. A. Drury, J. J. Dar- j
1 lingron. Herbert E. Davis. Floyd E. t
i x-'etvia, c.an o. l/roup, n. nozier uu- ]
lany, G. Thomas Dunlop, William L. i
Dunlop, jr.: John Paul Earnest. John J. >
Edson, George P. Eustls. W. C. Eustis, \
James K. Ellerson, A. Robert Elmore,
J. 1- red Essary, Joshua Evans, jr. ;j
1 Myer Felheimer. John 8. Flannery, !
William J. Flather, W. H. Fisher.
Charles W. Fairfax, A. F. Fox, Daniel !
Eraser, Everett Eraser, H. I'regcott
Gatloy. George A. Garrett. E. C. Gra- !
ham, W. T. Galliher, Richardson Gib- :
son, M. Goldenberg, C. J. Gockeler, |
James M. Green, H. W. Guy, Ezra Gould, !
L. W. Groomes, George E. Hamilton.
Dr. T. V. Hammond, James H. Hayden, \
Edwin S. Hege, John B. Henderson,
J. Phil Herman, W. Charles Heitmuller,
Christian Heuricli, John Hemphill,
Frank J. Hogan, Alfred F. Hopkins,
N. Monroe Hopkins, Heigh Hunt,
Charles E. Howe, Reginald Huidekoper,
W. 1J. Hibbs. Dewis Holmes, William
D. Hoover, William A, Hill, William
Corcoran Hill, Auoiph A. Hoehling,
Charles' Jacobsen, Hennen Jennings,
Charles M. Jones, O. H. P. Johnson,
Rudolph Kauffmann, Sigmima Kann,
Harry King, Phil King, William
King, Clarence P. King. J. Deo Kol'o, )
S. M. Kimberly, P. J. Kaufman, Wilton j
J. Dambert, Dr. Cary D. Langhorne, j
Arthur D. Marks. Henry Lamsburgh. !
James Ransburgh, Philip F. learner, Jo- j
seph Leiter, A. Dlsner, Arthur Lee, Alex- !
ander B. Legare, Alfred B. Leet, Harry G. |
Meem. John fl. Magruder. P. T. Moran. E. j
E. McLean, Theodore Michael, J. Hite '
Miller, Benjamin y. Minor, Malcolm S. 1
McConihe, Henry H. McKee, Eugene H. j
McLachlen, J. Upshur Moorheaa. S. C.
Xealc. Fleming Newbold, John New
bold. L. L. Nicholson, J. J. Noonan, G.
Nordlinger, C. F. Norment, Frank E. !
Noyes, Harry T. Newcomb, Robert Lee
O'Brien, James O'Donnell, George W.
Offutt. B. W. Parker. M. M. Parker,
Walter G. Peter, Julius I. Peyser, R.
Ross Perry, Jr.; T. H. Plckford, C. H.
Pope. S. J. Prescott, D. y. Por- i
ter. John Poole. A. K. Parris, j
li. K. Keesiae, jacicson tt. ivaiston. w . ;
H. Rapley. Cuno H. Rudolph, Dr. titer- j
ling Rutfln, Robert B. Roosevelt,
Charles S. Robb, M. D. Rosenborg, Tucker
Sands, Joseph 1. Saks. Joseph Sanders.
B. F. Saul, Guy T. Scott, E. J.
Stellwagen, D. E. titephan. Joseph
Strasburger. John P. Story, jr.; George
W. F. Svvartacll, W. W. Spaid, Thomas
W. .Smith, Admiral Charles H. Stockton,
A. ll. Schloss, W. C. Taylor, Col. George
Truesdell, George P. Saclis, S. R. Waters,
Harry Wardman, George W.
White, H. Winship Wheatley, Irving
Williamson, Julian W. Whiting. John
F. Wilkins, R. C. Wilkins, John Skelton
Williams, George L. Whitford, ti. W.
Woodward, George Y. Worthington,
Gen. Maxwell V. Z. Woodhull, Clarence
R. Wilson, Edward H. Wales, J. Dawson
Williams and Donald Woodward.
Wilson and Marshall Club
to Be Headed by Huge Band
in the Inaugural Parade
The Wilson and Marshall Democratic
Association is to march in a body in
the inaugural parade, in uniform, and
headed by a band of forty or fifty
pieces, and is to hold open house during
the inaugural period with an elabo(Continued
on Second Pago.)
f
ALLIES CONTINUING I
DOBMIDIA RETREAT
Russians and Rumanians De- j
Glared to Be Approaching
the Lower Danube. F
TEUTONS TAKE 1.000 MEN
In the Rumanian war theater the latest ;
reports Indicate preparations by the Rus- ! t
sians to make a definite stand in southern
Moldavia, where they are reported to ?
have made a strong defensive line.
Petrograd yesterday reported a holding
up of the Teutonic offensive and Berlin jp
announced no new advances, except in j
Dobrudja, where the Russo-Rumanian j \
forces have fallen hack some distance to '
the north, conforming to the retreat ;
across the Danube in Walluehia.
Take l.OOO Prisoners. h
By ri?p Associated Press.
BERLIN. December 19. by wireless to ;
Sayville.?The capture of more than 1.000 j
Russians and Rumanians on the Ru- >
manlan front is announced in today's |
statement from army headquarters.
The Russians and Rumanians in Do- j
brudja are continuing their retreat and j
are approaching the lower Danube.
The statement reads:
"Front of Archduke Joseph: On the I
Gutin Tomnatek in the wooded Carpathians
Russian patrols were repulsed, as
were attacks by Russian battalions on
the Valeputna road.
"Army group of Field Marshal von
Mackensen: During the last two days in
local engagements more than 1,000 Rus- .
sians and Rumanians were brought in as : 1
prisoners and many vehicles, most of j ,
them laden with provisions, were cap- r
tured.
"In northern Dobrudja the enemy eon- !
tinued to retreat northward beyond their
new fortified positions. Our army is ad- j 1
vancing toward the lower Danube."
The Teutonic army advancing northward
in northern Dobrudja lias crossed ^
the line between Babadagli and Pecinea- '
ga. says the war office announcement of ?
last night. j.
Buss Sea Forces Bombed.
The admiralty made the following an- :
nouncement today:
"German naval planes on December 16 ; j
dropped bombs on Russian sea forces in j
the port of Sulina (on the middle one of } r
the three estuaries of the Danube in the j ~
Dobrudja). A hostile hydroplane was
shot down by machine gunfire." y
Bulgarians and Turks i
Reported Successful;
British Raid Trenches ?
By the AffAoeiafetl Press. P
BERLIN, December 1$, by wireless ^
to Sayville.?"On the Struma river
front enterprises were undertaken with !
results favorable for the Bulgarian and |c
Turkish troops," says today'.*: official j
jtwrt JronHBw* odonlan war the- j fi
! i*N?,V?> lc
PABIS, December IS.?-The official j
communication given out.here today in '
regard to the campaign on the Mace- :
donian front says ho important events j
occurred yesterday in that theater of ]
war. j ?
LONDON, December 19, 3 p.m.?Sue- | h
cessful raiding and airplane operations }
by the British on the Macedonian front ; r
are reported in yesterdaj-"s official jg
statement regarding operations in that ja
war area. The statement reads: : "
"British troops successfully raided j ^
enemy trenches in the Haznatar dis- t
trict on the Struma front and at Brest ^
on Lake DoiTan, on Saturday and Sun- !
day. Forty enemy dead were counted
and prisoners were also taken. j r
"Our airplanes dropped bombs on the ' a
Tumba station and inflicted damage j,
upon enemy transports on the GievgetiChernitza
road."
KAISER DECLARES HEWING
WILL PROCEED FURTHER \l
AMSTERDAM, via London, December | s
10.?A speech by Emperor William on I *
December 14 to the troops commanded j
by Gen. D'Elsa In Lorraine, is quoted by ; p
the Neueste Nac-hrichten of Leipzig as j
follows, in pari: : ^
"The brave endurance and iron tenac- j a
ity with which you have repulsed all j ?
enemies 011 all fronts for years has ^
made It possible for me 10 address to p
my adversaries a proposal for peace negotiations.
Whether they will accept I h
do not know, and the result is uncer- d
tain. The act is in God's hands, as is i'
our whole struggle. He will decide t
upon it, and we will leave it to Him. a
We must not argue with what He or- h
ders. f
"We will bo grateful to Him that we
have thus far the honor of being His j
instruments in the divine Judgment
that has come upon our enemies. Let the |
decision fall as it will. The hewing i ^
will proceed further until our adver- f t
saries have had enough."
ELECTIONS IN BAY STATE. , t
o
Voters in Five Cities at Polls on Lo- P
cal Issues. }J
BOSTON, December 19.?The last of 11
tills year's city elections were held to- c.'
day, when voters went to the polls in
Boston. Pitchburg, North Adams, Peabodv | d>
and Quincy. In this city supporters and j
opponents of a continuance of the present |
system of licensing the sale of liquor ' ,
made strong efforts to bring out a large 1 ,
proportion of the registered vote. 1 r<
The present mayoralty term does not I
expire for another year.
j L
DAY IN CONGRESS. | t?i
' . I
! Senate: 1 si
: Met at neon. j I
Commerce committee heard ad- f
! vocates and opponents of Missis- j OJ
i sippi and Sacramento rivers flood n(
! control bill.
j General Scott resumed statement I ti
! urging universal military training i tl
before military affairs committee. j c<
Debate resumed on the District j **
of Columbia prohibition bill. I t<
House: fc
Met at 11 o'clock. j w
Resumed consideration of the leg- fT
j islatlve appropriation bili,
Secretary Baker and Gen. Crozler
testified before the military affairs
committee.
Capt. Sims testified before the nx
naval affairs committee. re
Effort to get consideration of the LI
Adamson resolution extending life st
of railroad investigating commls- w!
slon for one year, temporarily
i blocked. hS
b?
rs
/
iOYD GEORGE NOT
ABLETOSEEHOPE
INPEACEOVERTURE
leparation and Guarantees
Against Militarism First.
He Tells Commons.
ALLIES TO ACT JOINTLY
ON THE TEUTONIC NOTE
remier Briand of France Says Tenonic
Powers Will Be Told Proposal
Cannot Be Taken Seriously.
iv Ti?e Pr**s-.
PARIS. December 19 ?
Premier Briand announced
in the senate today that the
entente allies would send tomorrow
a concerted reply
making known "to the central
powers that it is impossible
to take their request for
peace seriously."
LONDON, December 19.?
"reinier Lloyd (leorge told the
louse of commons today that
icace without reparation was imlossible.
lie said the allies would insist
hat the only end of the war must
>e a complete guarantee against
'russian militarism disturbing
he peace of Europe.
Much as they longed for it, the
iremier added, the central powers'
lote and the speech preceding it
tforded small encouragement and
lope fur an honorable and lasting
>eace.
No Proposals for Peace.
Mr. L.loyd George said there were no
reposals for peace. To enter Into
roposals of which they had no
:nowle?3ge was to put their heads into
. uwsc wiui uic tupc cum in kiit; iuumm
?f Germany.
The formal . reply of the allies, the
ureivitr *eaourt??4# w4U b??iven In the
ourse of a few days.
In Accord With Allies.
Mr. Lloyd George said:
"Our answer will be given in full ao?
ord with our allies. Each of the allies
as separately and Independently arived
at the same conclusion. I ant
lad of the first answer given by Franco
,nd Russia.
"We will await until we hear what
erms and guarantees there are surer
han those which Germany broke,
leanwhile we put our trust in our unroken
a "my."
After declaring that peace without
eparation was impossible, the premier
sked whether "all the outrages on
a.nd and sea" had been liquidated l?y
a"few pious phrases about humanity."
Prussia a Bad Neighbor.
The premier analyzed tiie Ue.man
haneellor's .speech and then declared
mphatieallv:
"Without reparation peace is imposible.
Moreover, what guarantee is
here that subterfuges will not be used
ti future to overthrow any treaties of
eace whereinto we might now enter?"
"We must keep a steadfast eye on the
>urpos^for which we entered the war
Vre entered it to defend Europe from
ggressions of the Prussian military
a.-te. We must insist that there be
he most complete guarantees against
Ids caste ever disturbing again the
eace of Europe.
"Prussia has been a bad neighbor,
.'ow that the war has really been unertaken
it would be folly riot to see to
t that this swash-buckling through
lie streets of Europe and tins disturbnce
of peaceful citizens was dealt with
ere and now as the most serious ofense
against the law of nations."
Shipping- to Be Nationalize J.
During the war, the premier said,
hipping would be nationalized in a
rue sense.
Premier Lloyd George announced it
ad been decided to give recognition to
lie agents of former Premier Vcnizelos
f Greece.
Dealing with the war situation, the
remier said he had to paint a stern,
ut not gloomy, picture. Tin Rumanian
hinder was an unfortunate one. but at
.? it ?inlv nroloneed the war and
auld not affect it. Ti might have a
ilutary effect. he continued, in culling:
attention of the allies to obvious
efects of organization. To prevent the
umaniai: situation from becoming
orse they had taken strong action. In
ree^fl they were taking no risks. They
ad decided t?> recognize the agents of
>rmer Premier Venizelos.
Sure of Ultimate Victory.
Speaking of the western front, Air.
loyd George rcf erred to the growth
f the British armies there and conInued:
"J am convinced ultimate victory is
lire if the nation shows the sane spirit
f endurance and readiness t ? learn
s the mud-stained armies at th< front.'*
Turning to the inor? purely political
f the domestic problems before the
sw ministry, Mr. Lloyd George said:
"We are anxious to avoid all con oversia!
questions. The nine ions of
i? premier and leader of the l ouse of
iminons have been separated because
was believed the double tasks were
?o much for one man. The cig.atilzaon
of the new cabinet is beet adapted
>r the purpose of war. In var you
ant prompt decision, and the allies
a/ve suffered disaster after lisaster
om tardiness of decision."
Denial of Possible Terms.
The speech of Chancellor von Betlianu
Hollweg before the German
ichstag was characterized by Mr.
oyd George *l& constituting in subanoe
a denial of the only terms upon
hi eh peace was possible.
Premier Lloyd George said i he time
id come when the dominions should
> consulted more formally a*, to the
*
