h
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Probably heavy anow to-day; to-morrow
fair, continuing cold; gales.
Highest temperature yesterday, 30; lowest, 19.
Detailed weather, mall and marine reports on page 13.
IT SHINES FOP. ALL
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 110.
rvVTC flUMT la Iratet New Vera. I Ktsewner
yJiia 1j1N1 tmn city aad Newark. I two cmrf.
NEW YORK, TUESDAY, DECEMBER 19, 1916. Copyright, me. by Hie Bun Printing and MbH$hlng XMOcfallon.
GOMPERS FOE
OF 8 HOUR LAW
President of A. F. of L.Will
Ask Wilson to Have It
Repealed.
MENACES LABOR UNIONS
"Big Four" Leaders Also Plan
to Stop Compulsory Arbi
tration Move.
Samuel Oompers. head of the Amerl
tan Federation of Labor, Is expected to
apply his Influence here and In Washing
ton for tho repeat of the Adamson eight
hour law. For mora than a month
thero lias been a quasi alliance between
the "Bis Four" and the federation.
An unwritten agreement is In force
between them to light laws which In
their belief, threaten the power of labor
trganlzatlons. As the law now la held
17 the brotherhoods to be Inimical to
their existence Compere has given his
promise to request President Wilson per
gonals and also Intercedo before Con
gress to havo the law stricken from the
books.
"Big Four" leader are convinced that
the operation of the Adamson law and
the enactment of compulsory arbitra
tion, as requested by President Wilson
In his message to Congress on December
I will reduce their power to negligibility.
Their organisations, they fear, wilt have
so more Influence In railroad affairs than
benevolent fraternal associations.
Preslaeat Caaifart of Mores.
Advices from Washington yesterday
told that President Wilson has no In
formation of the compromise negotia
tions between the "big four" and the
aatlonal conference committee of rail
road managers. He has no knowledge,
he Intimated to callers, of the movement
toward the repeal of his pet measure.
Nor Is he Informed of-the private plains
f the conferees for the future settle
ment of disputes.
Those with whom he spoke were Im
pressed with his determination to put
through his railroad programme,
which' comprehends compulsory arbitra
tion and the control of the railroads
fey the Government In time of military
emergency. To both these meaaures the
blg four" and the American Federation
have declared their unalterable hos-
So'far as possible the President will
try to bring. his plans to enactment In the
present short session of Congress. If
decenary, It Is understood, ne win oroer
an extra session. He has had no recent
conferences with tho "Big Four" chiefs
er dompers.
Preaaare to Be Exerted1.
When the brotherhood men and the na
tional managers get together hero thla
week It Is understood tho "Big Four" rep
resentatives will exert all tho pressure
they ran to persuade the operators to
Join with them In two plans, the repeal
of tho Adamson law and a compromise
that will make unnecessary the compul
sory arbitration plan.
Tho award of the board of arbitration
which wns selected to adjust the wages
am) work controversy between the rail
roads of tho country and the switchmen's
union will bo announced this week, prob
ably Wednesday, and these findings will
play an Important' part In the negotia
tions between tho "Big Four" brother
hoods and the Nutlonal Conference Com
mitter of Managers. Tho parley will
not be resumed until the switchmen s de
mands arc decided.
Whatever the decision, whether It fa
voik an clBht hour day, whether It
grants punitive overtime or whether It
denlis lioth these demands, one side or
tho other will make capital of tho award.
See a Powerfal Arar"rne.
The brotherhoods, against which the
Bw itehmen'M Union long has been In op
position, will not hesitate to embody In
lt own arguments with tho railroad
nm pagers whatever favors tho swltch-
Interest In the decision extends to Con
gress and the White House. President
Wilson nnd the Democratic leaders who
have been uiglng compulsory arbitration
for tho government of railroad disputes
expect tho outcome of the swItchmen'B
aibltratlon will put a powerful argument
at their command when tho Presidents
rallioad programmo Is presented for leg
lilntlon. The primary hope of brotherhood men
Is that tho managers may bo Induced to
tho withdrawal of their teat ult on tho
Adamson law before It reaches u decision
In tlio United ritatcs Supremo Court.
Thev feel that In determination either
f..r or against them, with compulsory ar
bitration looming up us a certainty, they
M.iml to lose the power they havo been
building up for thirty years.
Some of the Heasons.
Tim reasons are these :
U tho highest court holds tho law un
constitutional eighteen mpntha of strug
lc for a shorter working day will end In
futility. Compulsory arbitration "would
take from their hands their main weapon
for tho icgnlnlng of this ground a
strike. ...
Were the law to be uphold It would
vent In Congress tho principle of regu
lating railroad wages. As this Is ono or
the basic reasons for tho brotherhoods
exigence their foundation would be
shaken. And again, through the loss of
tho light to strike they could do nothing.
Thus, in either cuse were the law to
b sustained or annulled the brother-
V. . . I .. I n In.. V. n .1 1 1 1 1
Cooperation from the managers Is
expected on now me repeat unu mc
.1... . - , t I ..I.. . I TV.
uiie.u or compulsory icnii.ia.iwn. i
brotherhoods are pinning much of their
ititii on me opposition to tun .muuinuii
law that was unanimous among tho ope.
Mtors after its enactment. Tho rail
royls, top, are none too keen for com
pufsury arbitration.
Will lie Caarles) IV. of Hangar?.
I!i;i)Ai'KST, Dee, 1. Tho question as
to what the official title of tho new lim
reror should be In Hungary, so as to
Moid riunllcatlon of the title of pro
Mous Kings Charles, was settled to-day
wllli the announcement by Premier Tlsza
that the Emperor will call himself at' the
coronation "Kmperor Charles I, of Aus
tih and King Charles IV, of Hungary
i-i.o lluhemia. "
I
IWri'i Hupertar rest Wlae. Ill Battle,
i'i r mii.t uiurlahlne. bloail.ntsklnK wins.
U Kulion St., N. Y. tfaoae Curt.
fffDV Cilrc DilIAWJ t
wni on v no ia r LvfTA
$5,000 BY ITS VERDICT
Twelve Thoughtful Men De
cide Dancer Doesn't Owe
C. D. Stlckncy Estate.
The verdict of a tho'ughfui Jury before
Justlco Newburger yesterday saved
Anna Pavlowa, the Russian dancer, from
tho trouble of paying to the estate of
Charles Dickinson 8tlckney the sum of
$5,000, with Interest, out of the salary
of 128,400, which Is said to be still due
her from tho combination ballet nnd
opera In which she starred a year ago. .
Htlcknt" according to witnesses for
tho defence, spent a large part of his
time admiring Pavlowa's dancing and
gave her the IC.OOO, not as a business
proposition, but aa an Investment In art.
Victor Dandre, manager of Pavlowa,
testified that ho heard a conversation
between the artist and Stlckney at the
Century Theatre In February, ISIS, dur
ing whlcu Stlckney expressed willingness
to forget the $6,000 unless the public
was llkewlso appreciative and "business
wss good."
Pavlowa, however. Insisted that Stlck
ney give her a "paper" to sign. As In
troduced In the suit by the plaintiff this
was represented to be a promissory note,
payable on December 21. ISIS. Accord
ing to Herbert A. Conner, auditor of tho
Pavlowa Ballet, Inc., the books of the
organisation showed on December 25,
ISIS, a deficit of $141,000 for the pre
ceding season.
Stlckney, who hsd sent the dancer
flowers worth $500 altogether, according
to Nathan O. Qoldbarger, her attorney,
died on March 9 last. His executor,
James L. Steuart, disregarding art and
remembering only his duty to the estate,
brought an action to collect $5,2S7.54.
The Jury, after an hour's deep thought,
returned a verdict for the dancer,
CARRANZA WON'T
RATIFY PROTOCOL
Insists on Replying to Lane's
Statement Outlining Policy
of This Country.
Philadelphia, Dec It. Gen. Car
ranxa's representatives on the Mexican
American Joint commission made to the
American members to-day the admission
that tho protocol signed three weeks ago
at Atlantic City had not been ratified.
They supplemented that admission, how
ever, with a declaration of the attitude
of the Carransm Government and as
sured the Americans the delay In ratifi
cation did not signify the rejection of the
agreement they had signed after almost
three months of consideration.
It was evident at 'the close of the con
ference that both Americans and Mexi
cans regarded as probable an official
sanction of the protocol and the resump
tion of the sessions to discuss questions
at Issue between the Governments of the
United States and Mexico.
Two sessions wcro held to-day, nnd
another meeting will be held to-morrow.
It was believed to-night that the sessions
might be continued until near the end
of tho week, when an adjournment would
be taken until after New 1. ear's Day,
Wants Ills Side Given.
It was Indicated that Carranza had
withheld ratification when the protocol
was submitted to him by Alberto J.
Panl, the Commissioner who carried the
document from Atlantic City to Quere-
taro, not so much because he found the
terms of the agreement Impossible as
because he felt that the declaration of
tho United States Government's attitude
made it inconsistent for him to accept It
without In turn defining the position of
his Government.
Secretary Lane had olaced before the
Mexlran commissioners a supplemental
statement in which he had clearly Indi
cated that the American Government
was determined to witness an Improve
ment In conditions In Mexico and that If
it became necessary American troops
would bo went across the border In pur
suit of bandits nin! that no restrictions
as to how far the puiuult would bo car
ried would bo tolerated. Carransa In
terpreted this statement as vitally con
nected with tho agreement and has pro
tested agalnet tho riureuanco of such a
policy by tho United States. .
Panl to Draft Iteply.
To tho conditions named In tho pro
tocol for tho withdrawal of American
troops now In Chihuahua under Gen.
Pershing It Is understood ho made no
serious objections. Tho terms for their
withdrawal arc that they uliall bo taken
out within forty days after ratification
of the protocol If conditions permit and
that Corrunia would garrison the terri
tory as tho Americans are wlthdrawu.
Carranza slened no communication to
the commission, but authorized Mr. Panl
to draft and to submit tho statement In
tended as counter declaration of pol
icy. It was learned that the Mexican
commissioners wero empowered to use
their judgment In phranliw the docu
ment nnd were urged by Carranza- not to
cause a break with the Americana If it
couM bo avoided. Mr. Pant said after
tho conference that he believed a satis
factory arrangement could bo reached.
17,000 GUARDSMEN TO RETUBN,
Border Force Itrdncrd to 7."l(O0O
Xeir York Uo Co -ulnar Home.
Washington, Dec, 18. Seventeen
thousand more National Guurtlsmen
were ordered homo from tho Mexican
border to-day. Coincident with thlsnu.
nouncement, mado by Gen. Funston, it Is
said nt tho War Department that the
border force will bo reduced to 7&,uuu
men. It will remain at that figure until
somo definite move toward clearing up
the border controversy with Carranza Is
made. Oen. Funston believes this num.
ber can adequately protect American
territory against raids und, what Is more
Important, be audit-lent to support Major
Gen. Tershlng, should his 12,000 regu
lars need help In Mexico.
Gen. Funston Is said to believe that
It would not be safe to bring the num
ber of border troops to a lower figure
until there Is a very definite solution In
sight of the Mexican problem. Tho
17,000 troops ordered home should be at
their respective armories by January 5,
It Is stated. They will leave for home
as soon as transportation Is available,
The New York guardsmen included are
Ambulance Company No. 3, Twenty
third Infantry, Second Field Artillery
and Field Hosyltal No. I. ,
WHITMAN FOR
LOCAL OPTION
Governor Told Friends He
Favors Prohibition,
They Say.
GAVE VIEWS AT BANQUET
May Announce His Stand in
His Message to the
Legislature.
Announcing that he Is In favor of the
general temperance sentiment, Gov.
Whitman has placed himself on record
as prepared to support prohibition legis
lation. Just what kind of a prohibition
measure the Governor has In mind Is not
known, but It was learned last night
that he will sign any local option bill
that comes before him for approval.
The Governor made his position clear
on the temperance question nt a ban
quet In Washington last Saturday night,
given in his honor by tho New York
State Uepresentatlves In Congress. The
Governor's remarks on the subject were
given to a reporter for This Sun last
night by one of tho Uepresentatlves at
the dinner, who preferred that his name
bo withheld.
"During the dinner," said this Rep
resentative, "the question of how the
Congressmen from New York should
vote on the prohibition amendment, when
It comes before Congress for u vote, was
brought up. Homer Snyder of Little
Falls turned to the Governor und said:
" 'Governor, there Is gome doubt on
this question among us nnd we would
like to know how ou would vote It you
were In Congress.'"
"'I would vote In favor of It,'
promptly replied tho Governor."
View as Indlvldaal.
It Is understood, according to those
who attended the dinner, that tho Gov
ernor added that ho expressed that
opinion as nn Individual and not as the
leader of the Republican party In New
York State. 'But in the subsequent dls.
cusslon that followed tho Governor, It
was said, expressed approval of tho pro
hibition sentiment and Intimated that he
might havo something to say about the
question In his message to the Legisla
ture on January 1,
In Albany last night, the Governor de
clined to discuss the dinner In Washing
ton and also refused to say whether he
would favor aomo temperance measure
in his speech to the Legislature. But
friends with whom ho has discussed, the
matter, stated last night that the Gov
ernor will sign any local option bill that
Is passed -
The Governor does not Intend, said
his friends, to come out openly In favor
of any mensure. Nor will ho advocate
statcwidn prohibition. If he touches on
tho question In his annual message It
will be to recommend a referendum vote
on the matter. But It can be staled that
ho will sign any local option bill passed
by the Legislature.
Will Sinn Option llllls.
There nro several prohibition bills
which nro Introduced annually In the
Legislature. In addition to the bill pro
viding for a statewide referendum on
tho suppression of tho manufacture and
tralllc In llmior. thero ts tho local op
tion hill, which provides for referendum
by towns, cities and rounties, and the
optional prohibition icmonstrancc bill.
Tho existing law does not permit
local option elections In cities of more
than 50,(100 population, and tho optional
prohibition remonstrance bill would per
mlt tho question to bo settled In kj-
lltlcal divisions as small as it tt election
district. It would permit M per cent, of
tho residents In an election district, or
combination of election districts; to stop
tho tralllc In liquor In that district or
districts by signing a petition against
thn saloons, ami they would havo to
close up.
The Governor's action In comlnir out
! for prohibition caused considerable sur
I prise In political circles last night. I'o-
l lltlcal leaders who wcro asked their
opinion of tho Governor's attitude de
clined to comment until ho has publicly
declared himself. They did ndnilt, how
ever, that tho Governor lias made i
very shrewd political movo In getting
In on the ground floor of n movement
that Is dally becoming stronger.
They expressly described as a clever
plcco of political strategy tho fact that
the Governor stated that ho was In fuvo.
of "tho general temperance sentiment,"
Instead of tying himself up to any spe
cllio programme.
BATTLESHIP IS TORPEDOED.
Berlin Saye French Vessel Was
Ilarlly lMmagcd I'nrls Denies It.
Hem.i.v, by wireless. Dec. 18.-
French battleship of the 1'atrlo class was
torpedoed nnd liatlly damaged by n Ger
man siibmarluo In tho Mediterranean on
December 13, and tho armed French
transport Maghelan, a 6,000 ton vessel.
having on board 1,000 troops, was tor
pedoed, according to an olllclal ttatc-
incut Issued to-day, xaylng:
"A German submarine on December 12
heavily damaged a French unndilp of
tho Palrlo typo with it torpedo fifty-five
nautical tulles cast southeast of Malta.
"Another submarine on December 11
torpedoed southeast of the l.-land of
I'antellerla (southwest of Sicily) tho
urmed French troop transport Maghelan,
of 6,000 toiiM, with more than 1,000
white und colored troops on hoard."
Lo.npon, Dec. IS, It was stated by (he
French Admiralty to-day that thero Is no
truth In tho statement that a French
man-of-war of tho I'atrle class wasuam
aged ,011 December 12, nid that thn loss
o inn .wugucian atreauy lias uccu re
ported.
There nro only two bnttleshlps of tho
Patrle class, tho name ship and tho bat
tleshlp Itcpubllque, They displace 14,630
tons. Their armament Is four 12 Inch
guns In turrets and ten 7.6 Inch guns lit
the main batteries.
TEIPER ADMITS HE LIED.
District Attorney Breaks Ills Ntory
About the Lost Pistol.
Buffalo, Deo. IS. Testimony In I lie
caso of John Edward Tclper, on trial
charged with the murder of his mother,
closed to-day with tho completion of the
cross-examination of tho defendant. The
case will go to the Jury on Thursday.
Ths District Attorney concerned him
self to-day especially with tho pistols
which havo figured In the case. Tclper
admitted ho had found the lost nuto
malic four or live dais beforo the iniir-
tier and that lie had falsely told DUtrlvt
Attorney Dudley after the murder that
lue pistol naa not been touna,
1 t
TAXICAB CaS IN FIGHT;
PUBLIC RIDING CHEAPER
New Concern in the Field With Leas Than Legal
Rates Causes Independents to Lower
Their Prices.
It will not be surprising It New York
experiences a general reduction In taxi
cab rates In tho near future below the
legal rates stipulated In tho present taxi
cab ordinance. It tho reduction does
come It will bo the result of tho recent
Invasion of New York by a new taxi
concern which has cut tho rates to rock
bottom and by so doing has collected as
much patronage as Its present comple
ment of taxis can possibly handle. The
other companies and tho Independent
owners have been affected by tho popu
larity or the new taxis, and thero nro
rumors that they are considering the re
duction of their rates so as to meet the
rates charged by tho new concern. Par
ticularly Is this truo of tho Independent
owners.
The Independent owners, the men who
own only one or two taxis, and do their
nncxing trom tho public hack stands, are
tho most seriously affected by tho re
ductions made by the new company.
Independents lleaace.
The situation has reached the stage
where several of the Independents have
already reduced their rates so ns to meet
tho rates of tho new company, Especially
is tins true of the taxis that hack on
tho public stands along Columbus and
Amsterdam avenues. But so far the re
duction has not becomo general. Tho
thing that buoys the hopes of the Inde
pendents la that tho new company can
npt possibly continue to operate at Its
present low rates and remain In business.
This contention Is baseo? on tho high cost
of gasolene, tires, labor and the other
CLARA WARD IS
DEAD IN PARIS
Princess Chimay, Who Came
From Detroit, Once
Itigo's Wife.
Chicago, Dec. IS. The Pilncesa
Chlrrray Is dead In Padua, Italy. She
was the once beautiful Clara Ward,
daughter of Eben B. Word, millionaire
shipbuilder of Detroit. For two decades
she was tho wanton flame of Kurope.
Her lightest act flow by cable to the
ends of the world. Her death was so
obscure thaj. the American Consul had
to bo requested by tho Stato Depart
ment to verify Its fact.
The first news of tho Princess Cht-
may's death was received by Calvin Fen
tress, treasurer of Lyon, Gary & Co., In
a cable messago from Padua to-day.
The message read:
"Clara dead. Notify family.
"Cassalota."
Cassalota was tho last of tier many
husbands. Her telatlvei In America
have never fteen him. She left no will.
It Is not known how much of her once
largo fortune remains. Only n small al
lowance, doled out by u conservator, was
accessible to her In her last years.
Clara Ward was born In 1ST3, tho
daughter of Capt. Kbeu It. Ward of De
troit. Opt. Wind owned the largest
fleet of vessels on tho great lakes, and
was accounted ono of the wealthiest men
In Michigan. 11c married at tho ago of
61 and died two cars after his daugh
ter's birth.
Inherited f -I.OOO.OOO.
The daughter after much litigation
received Jt.UOO.000 of Capt. Ward's es
tate. Like iter father sho was somewhat
eccentric and Impetuous. She went
abroad nnd her vivacious manners capti
vated tho llclgian .nobleman. Prlnco do
Chimay. Ho married her noon after she
left :i convent. Tho ceremony was u
social event of tho season In tho Ameri
can colony In Paris.
l'rlnco do L'lilmay's father was Min
ister of Foreign Affairs In tho Cabinet
of King Leopold. Tho King received
tho beautiful young American girl with
nioro than ordinary Interest. She nlso
became a favorito of tho heir to tho
throne, l'rlnco llaldwln. Prlnco Baldwin
died suddenly after a quarrel with l'rlnco
do Chimay, It Is said. Soon after tho
Princess left her two children In the
cue of her husband and left to take
up her residence In Paris, Tho Queen
had expressed an Intention to leave the
Court It the Princess do Chimay were
allowed to remain, but it was usscitcd
that her tlrparturo did not cud her
friendship with the King,
Meet Jnncal lllao.
From Paris sho went to Budapest.
In a cafo sho met ii Magyar gypsy tid
dler, Janczl Itlgo, with whom sho eloped.
Sho went with hint to his wretched
home nnd lived with him, his wifo and
children. Heturnliig to tho lights of
Paris after her adtrnturu In Hungary,
tho Princess was served with Burnouses
In two suits, one for 130,000 francs de
manded by Hlgo's wlfa and tho other an
action for divorce brought by her hus
band, Tho husband obtained the decree
awarding him I300.00U for the euro of
tho children and tlG.ouO a yenr alimony.
Tho Princess returned to her gypsy lover
and went -with him to Kgpt, Sho re
mained with him until mot and then
gitva him $3,000 to soothe his wounded
feelings when sho (Jeserted him. He
came to New York nnd was something
of a failure as a vaudeville attraction.
Tho waning of her affections for Hlgo
noon woro accounted for by tho disclos
ure Hint sho had fallen violently In lovo
with tho Chevalier Giuseppe Itlcclardl,
cx-ntntlon master of tho Vesuvius funi
cular railway, whom sho dcscilhcd its tho
dlvineet model of manly beauty that ar
tktt ever Imagined, Ho became her third
husband. But ho objected, ho said af
ter some months of marriage, to his
wife's familiarity with his chauffeur, Al
bann Casalata. Ho sued for ami ob
tained it separation In tho French courts.
Then ho cume to America to suo for a
divorce.
It wus eald In the papers filed by Itlc
clardl that the princess, after developlin;
an affection for tho chauffeur, ulgned her
letters "Clara Casalala" anil lived nt the
KHitte addices In Paris as that of Casa
lata. Sho hud. numerous other adventures
nt thn heart airl constantly wag suing or
being sued by a husband or cx-btuband,
accessories that are required in the taxi
buatnees. But the Independents seem to
havo overlooked the fact that the over
head charges of tho new company are
smalt.
For one thing this company does o
cash business only. There are no ac
counts to be looked after, no book
keepers to be hired, Ac. The cars wero
purchased with tho Idea of driving them
steadily for two years, to be replaced
with new ones as soon as tho old wear
out. They are operated eighteen hours
a day, with two shifts of drivers work
ing nine hours each. At the end of a
day the drivers must produce their re
ceipts to correspond with the amounts
on tho clocks.
Green Flags Cheaper.
The Independents who havo decided to
make a right for business existence have
equipped their taxis with green flag
meters. The public has noticed theso
taxis, for It Is not unusual to hear peo
ple coming out of the theatres and res
taurants call for green flag taxis.
Taxis carrying the green flags arc
permitted to charge less than the legal
rates, which arc 30 cents for the first
half mllo and 10 cents for each suc
ceeding quarter mllo for ono or two per
sons, and to cents for the first half mile
and 10 cents for each succeeding one
third of a mllo for threo or four pas
sengers. The green flag taxis have re
duced their rates to 20 cents for the
first half mile, with a slight decrease
over the legal rates for (he succeeding
quarter miles. It Is noticeable that the
green flag taxis are sharing the volume
of business with the new low faro taxis.
BRITAIN SEEKS
NEW U. S. LOAN
$250,000,000 Wautcd,and.T.P.
Morgnn & Co. Begin
Negotiations.
Great Britain Is preparing to float
nnother large secured loan 1230,000.000
or more In the United States, accord
ing to Information obtained yesterday on
high banking authority. Informal ne
gotiations. In the way of feelers forthe
opinion of the banking world, liave al
ready been started by J. P. Morgan &
Co.. fiscal agents for the British Govern
ment. It was admitted yesterday that
tho loan would be brought out shortly
after New Year's.
Contrary to the general belief In the
financial world, France will not partici
pate In the new Fnlted Kingdom loan.
It was stated positively yesterday that
tho loan would 1o made to Great Brit
ain alone. Through on arrangement
made some time ago, however. Great
Britain made possible the participation
by France In tho proceeds obtained by
the British Government from foreign
credits. Great Britain has recently
financed a largo part of purchases hero
by France.
Details of the now loan are still far
from being worked out. It Is known
that tho New York bankers are firmly
ugalnst a loan of exceptionally large
proportions. The last loan was for
I300.uou.000 and tho former for 230,
000,000. Both of these loans wero se
cured and were entirely successful.
Bankers do not think that the l-hitente
Allies will havo any trouble In floating
a new seemed loan, provided It Is backed
by high class collateral. It Is not ex
pected thut tho Federal Itescrvc Board
will raise any objections, so long ns thn
Investments In loan of this form can
be kept liquid and In such form that
the banks can readily n-allzo on them
when -money Is needed for expansion of
home production. It was pointed out
that the Keserva Board's recent state
ment applied only to short term loans,
which eventually might bo turned Into
long term loant.
Collateral for tho new loan, according
to present plans, will probably be securl
tltt similar to thoso which backed tho
two previous credit to Great Britain.
It wan stated also that tho loan would
tun for five years or even more, as
ureal uritain already has 1250,000,000
coming duo In 191S, 1150,000,000 In 1819,
i.r.u.ouo.ouo in l:o and 1150,000,000 in
1021. It Is moro than probable, bankers
say, that tho loan will run considerably
beyond 1022.
CANADA RIPS UP RAILS
TO BE USED IN FRANCE
Work Begun on 1,000 Miles of
Trackage on Hurry Order
From England.
Ottawa, Dec, IS. Canada has begun
to tear up 1,000 miles of railway to meet
tho needs of the war on tho western
front In France und Belgium, It was
learned to-night. Tho rails will be
shipped to France, whero they will he
rehtld to facilitate tho movement of
troops, guns, munitions and supplies
from French ports to tho lighting Hue.
Laborers now nro nt work tearing up
300 miles of Government railway sidings
and It has been decided to remove 220
miles of rails between Kdmonton and
tho Pacific coast, where tho Canadian
Northern and Grand Trunk Pacific run
parallel. Tralllc will bo thrown upon
one of theso lines. It Is expected that
somo of tho rails to bo sent to France
will ho ohtalned from tho Transconti
nental Ilullwuy and tho Hudson Bay
I tn 1 1 way.
In sending a call to Canada last week
for rails It was suld British Govern
ment authorities represented that prompt
action would save thousands of lives. It
was Imposslblo to obtain new rails ow
ing to the great demand for steel to
manufacture shells.
Vw Gars Price ot Overshoes.
WatbrbuT.y, Conn,, Dec, 18. Rubber
overshoes of all kinds and shoes with
rubber soles will bo Jumped 20 per cent.
In price because of unusual demand and
suortngo or isiior. it lias Deen annuuocrd
by factories btrtK
BRITISH SURE
OF A REFUSAL
Rejection of German Peace
Proposal by Lloyd George'
To-day Is Predicted.
BIG WAR PLAN EXPECTED
Kaiser May Havo to State
Terms First to Get En
tente to Confer.
Sptclal Cablt Deiftxtch to TBI Sc.
London, Dec IS. Bonar Law's an
nouncement In the Commons this after
noon that Premier Lloyd George will ap
pear In the House of Commons to-morrow
to mako his much heralded speech
on the policy ot his Government and tho
German pcaco note caused general sat
isfaction. It had been feared that his
Illness might delay his appearance.
Whllo every one Is naturally eager to
hear the olllclal reply to Germany there
exists no doubt that the Germnn offer
will be refused consideration until defi
nite terms are proposed by the Kaiser,
The feeling In England Is that peaco Is
not possible except on terms proposed
by the Allies nnd that tho war Is cer
tain to last another year, If not two.
The address of the Premier is looked
forward to by the press and public as
the most Important utterance of the
kind since the mcmornblo speeches In
which Viscount Grey discussed whether
Great Britain would come Into Ihe war.
Mr. Lloyd Georgo will rlsa to address
the Commons about 4 o'clock In the
afternoon and will probably speak for
an hour and a half.
"cape of the Speech.
The Prlmo Minister's speech will ho
not only a reply to tho German pcaco
oto but will also outllno tho whole policy
of the new national Government, the
trend of which may bo roughly antici
pated from tho fact that tho new Minis
try Is avowedly In power for tho definite
object "of carrying on tho war with all
the vigor the nation can command to a
successful end."
Tho Premier, It la understood. Is most
eager to tell the country his scheme of
pushing tho war. which Is regarded here
ss probably the most drastic and Im
portant war programmo ever suggested.
Mr. Lloyd Georgo will bo supported
by a full bench of his Ministers. Sir
L'dward Carson nnd others among his
new colleagues resumed their member
ship In the House with tho passing Into
law ot the bill for the reelection of Mln
ters. Tho changed tone of the lobby of
the Houso of Commons In tho last few
days has been remarkable. For tho first
time since summer tho members are
buoyant. A wave of optimism, caused
by tho news from Verdun, the nwakeucd
Mesopotamia campaign and the German
peace kite. Mingled with the natural re
joicing Is a reeling of relief at the ne
ginning ot a political regime which
opens with tho Introduction of new men
who promise more vigorous measures.
5lr. Lloyd Georgo will also refer. It
Is understood, to the case of. Capt
Blalklo of the Caledonia. The new ar
rangement which tho Government Is
ninking to hohe tho food nnd shipping
problems Is expected to be announced.
Meanwhile tho publication In Germany
of the Britltih press comment upon tho
peaco proposal has caused a change In
the attitude of the German prcts, which
now appears to oppose tho scheme, The
reml-ofllclal fologno tlazeiic warns tnc
Allies that humanity alone suggested
the German move, for Germany Is
stronger than ever.
"One thing Is Impossible to deny," It
says, "despite the frantic efforts of tliot-o
responsible for the tcrrlblo bloodshed,
who now nre making a filial effort to
whip up tho war spirit of their peoples.
A deen iwaen learning Is penetrating tho
masses of all countries. Sooner or later
account must bo taken of this human
Imnulse. Thereforo the humane sugges
Hon of peaco had to bo raised formally
and otliclally.
"It Is clear, however, that the only
one able to raise tho suggestion was he
who was conscious of his own strength
nnd nblo to overcome his pride, Wo have
raised the question. That fact alono Is
tho greatest proof of tho strength and
confidence given by Germany."
Balfonr on Vacation,
To-day's news from Government cir
cles Included tho announcement of the
departuro of Mr. B.tlfour, the Secretary
for Foreign Affairs, for threo weeks va
cation. Aithnugh hi" vacation comes at
nn Important Juncture tho organization
of the Foreign Ottlce permits affairs to
proceed uninterruptedly under the direc
tion or Uird Ilonert uecn una tiaron
llardiiige, tho under secretaries, while
the Inrger questions of general policy
iloubtless will receive, the attention of
tho War Cabinet, over which the Prlmo
Minister presides. Lords Curzon and Mil
ncr nlso being members with wide diplomatic-
experience.
It Is recalled that Mr. Hairours desig
nation its Foreign Minister met with
severe criticism from the NorthelllTe
press, nnd Lord Northcllffe himself urged
Mr. Lloyd ueorgo to ioiiow mo prece
dent of Lord Salisbury In directing for
eign affairs as well as assuming tho Pre
rnlershlp.
While Mr. Balfour s absence is said to
bo duo to Indisposition following Illness,
and thero Is no suggestion of Its being
prolonged beyond three weeks, It has
tho effect of leaving tho shaping of
ths larger poilcles regarding the German
note and other foreign Issues largely In
the hands of the Premier.
There wero no formalities In connec
tion with the presentation of the Ger
man peace note to-day by Anib.tssadnr
Page: He was received In tho Foreign
Secrctarj's room by Lord llobcrt Cecil,
who was acting for tho Foreign Minister,
No Comment on Note.
The nolo was enclosed In n largo white
envelope. It was handed by Ambassador
Pago to Lord Hobert without any com
ment nnd tho recipient mado no refer
ence t,o tho question of peace, simply
thanking Mr. Page for tho transmission
of the messago from tho Central Powers.
The two diplomats spent a short time
In conversation, hut as ono said: "We
talked about everything hut tho contents
ot tho envelope."
The note will be considered by the
British Cabinet to-morrow, It having
been received too late to-day to enable
tho council to be culled. Tho next step
after tho meeting of tho Cabinet will bo
to get Into communication with the
al les or ureal iirituin so that Jo nt ne
to may be taken, This Is expected to
take lit least a week,
It has liecn ascertained that tho note
(Continued on JSrcond rage.)
GERMAN LINES HERE
PREPARE FOR PEACE
Hamburg and North, German
Lloyd Bid for Freight
Engagements.
The German steamship agents In this
port seem to have a distinct hope that
the neaco nronosals of Germany may re
sult In something deflnlto before long.
The Hamburg-American Line ofllce sent
out a circular In which It said It took
"pleasure In announcing that wo are
now open to make freight engagements
from tho United States to Hamburg for
shipments upon tho resumption ot our
regular service after the conclusion of
peace or such earlier time aa the ob
stacles to such resumption may be re
moved."
Oelrlcha ft Co., agents of the North
German Lloyd fleet, made similar an
nouncement. Tho llnera In dock. It was
admitted, were not equipped fully with
men, hut it was said that tnero wouia
be a rush for Jobs aboard tho moment
the ships were scheduled to salL In the
offices of both big lines It waa said that
thero was a feeling that peace was not
far away. Tho hulls or the liners doubt
less wero pretty well dotted with barna
cles, but they would bo taken across
seas nnd scraped off after the first slow
passage ot tho great boats to Germany
and would return In racing trim.
LAUZANNE GIVES
HIS PEACE VIEWS
Paris Editor Says Germans Do
Not Yet Ilcalizc What
Allies Fight For.
Stophnne Lauzanne, editor of Le Hal in,
ono ot the most influential Paris news
papers, dlscusIng yesterday the possible
reply of the Entente Allies to the Ger
man proposal for a pcaco conference, dc
dared that a discussion of terms at the
present time would be utterly uscletsi.
Ha bcllvvcs that Germany does not yet
understand what the Entente nations are
fighting for and that until she docs un
dcrstaml their alms peace talk Is merely
u wahto of time.
M. Lauzanne, who camo to the United
States to tako part In the war relief
work, emphasized the fact that ho la In
no position to speak olllclally for Ills
Government and that ho has no Informa
tion us to tho stand to bo taken by
Franco and her allies regarding tho
peace proffer. Explaining, however, his
own point of view regarding the condl
Hons ot peace, for which he believes that
Germany Is not yet ready, he said that
the war must sro on until the territorial
and other objects for which the nations
In the Entente uro fighting have been
won.
What Allies Mast Win.
France, M, Lauzanne holds, must get
back Alsaco and 1-orrtilne: Italy must
navo Trieste us well an tho Trcntlno
Constantinople muxl be Russian and tho
Turk chased out of Europe, while Ruma
nia must havo Transylvania. Other es
scntlal conditions for tho ending of the
war Include, In tho opinion of the Paris
editor, tho restoration ot Belgium and
Serbia, a huge Indemnity to France, an
agreement by Germany to tho limitation
of armaments ami u pledge by tho
Kaiser's Government to abldo by Interna
tional law.
M. Lauzaiinn said:
"We probably shall have to fight at
least nnother year. We expect peace
then with Germany ready to come
around the tnblo to discuss the terms we
now propose. It would be no uso to get
around tho table with Germany now
Sho does not et understand for what
prlnclplo ami what ideal wo nro fight
ing. Tho German Ambassador In Wash
Ington may promise tho moon. Wo
know Just what tint means.
"Similar proposal have come beforo
for the nations of l-.uropo to get around
tho table. Tho treaty that resulted from
tlio Berlin conference 111 1SS7 was finally
treated by Austria as ii scrap of paper,
When tho nations met at Algeclr.ts In
tho Moroccan crisis of 1303. France hav
ing reluctantly accepted Germany's In
vitation on tho strength or her concilia
lory promises, Germany wanted every
thing.
"Tho proposals that have now come
from Germany show tlmt If wo got
around tho conferenco tablo she would
offer to give ono parcel of a unnll na
tion to one nnd another parcel to uti
other. We want nono of that. Seibln
shall not be divided up. Tho rightful
territories of thn various nations shall be
restored to them.
Xo Alsace-Lorraine Itcferendnra.
"Germany has proposed a referendum
to tletermllio whether or not Alsace. I.or-
ralno bo leMored to France. Franco will
not nccept a refeieudiliu because It would
be determined by the votes of German
Immigrants into Alsnce-Lorrninn ami not
by thn real Inhabitants. Thousand of
tho Inhabitantslit the beginning of the
war went to France, Franco has ubout
30,000 Alsatian t-oldlers."
M. Lauzanne predicted that Lloyd
George, in addressing l no House or Com
mons to-day, "will nutko It clear that the
l.ntcnlo Allies ennnot now get uround tho
tablo with Germany," Ho said that
Gorniuny'ti neccptanro of International
law and the rights of other nations
were or more importance Hint territorial
settlement.
As to tho Indemnity demand M. Liu
zanne said a suggestion made by French
mid liritlsii inlanders wns to be cons it
eteil seriously. This was that nn extra
heavy duty should ba levied on Gorman
products nnu tlinl the money so col
jectcd should bo held 'or tlio benefit o
tho Entcnto Governments and annor
Honed when It amounted to 1500,000,000
or no. no iiiougni ino indemnity de
manu, wiiaicvcr tno method of colleo
Hon, might bo nt least 120,000,000,000,
nut saut niai was oiuy a guess,
BULLETIN AGAINST 'WORRYING'
V. 9. Public Health Service Cites a
Home Slade Parable,
Washington, Dec. 18. Tho Puhll
Health Service, which has been cither.
lug statistics on nervous diseases and
other Ills having a tendency to shorten
llfo, to-day Issued u bulletin against
worrying.
"So far ns Is known." says the bullo
tin, "no bird ever tried to build more
nests than Its neighbor, no fox ever
rrctica uecnuso ne nan only ono hole in
which to hide, no squirrel ever died of
anxiety lest he should not lay by enough
nuts for two winters Instead of for ono
and no dog ever lost any sleep over the
fact that ho did not huve enough bones
Uia usmo (or nil declining yeaiT,
17 AMERICANS
DIE ON VESSEL
U-BOAT SINKS
Eleven of the Crew of tlio
British Hor.sc Ship Rus
sian Also Perish.
TBANSPOBT EMPTY;
WESTWARD BOUND
Attacked in. Mediterranean
on the 14th, Admiralty
Hoportp Officially.
NAMES OP AMERICANS
GIVEN U. rS. CONSLTj
Case Regarded in Washing
ton as Similar to That
of the Marina.
London, Dec. 18. Seventeen Ameri
can muleteers und eleven of the crtw
of tho Ilrltlsh horse transport ship
Uuselan wero killed when the ship
wns Runk by ii submarine In the
Mediterranean on December 14.
The British Admiralty makes thU
announcement:
"Tho empty westbound Uiitlsh horM
rnnsport ship rtusxlun wns sunk by a
submarlno In tho .Mediterranean on the
Hth. Eleven of the crew wero killed.
Including the chief ofllocr. the first
oftlccr nnd the second ofllccr. Also
seventeen American muleteers wer
killed. Their namca havo been coin,
nninlcnted to tho American Consul." -
The tr.in.iiir. i ,-
probably tho Ilrltlsh stcutr.shlp of that
nil nin ts.-Iiltlt Lnlln,i e-
.......v, ,. o4ii.u tiuiii . c w po v ssmWm
Nnvumhur It? f. . t. .
which wouM be about duo to return.
i jvitiiufcu mis Ot I UJ,
LIKENED TO MARINA.
Kxact Slntni of lite ltiilini Must
He Aai'rrlnliirtl,
Washington-, Dec. it. Tin- smklna
of tho Urltlsh horso transport Russian,
reported In press despatches, presents
caso similar to that of the Marina, aba
Miorso transport, which was sunk bv m.
Germnn submarine with the loss of sis
Anierloau lives.
Ill tho ease of the Marina the Germnn
Government defended its action on the
ground that tho vessel was under the
orders of tho ilrltlsh Admiralty and as)
such had the status of all auxiliary war
vessel. It had been intimated at the
Stato Denartinent thai tiii i . i.
., , ...... . J iiui
satisfactory to the 1'nlted Stales.
ino uussian caso appeals to pivolva
the same point. It Is not known whether
the vessel was actu.tllv- nn,i,.,.
orders or whether It was a met chant
vcst-ci engaged In carrying cargoes of
mules for tho Ilrltlsh Government.
If tho ship was n legitimate merchant
man the ease undoubtedly vvlil add t
tho gravity of the submarine Mutation,
as it provides eumiilntltn ..via..,,...
fellow that the German Goveriim. u: "
taaing IIBIItiy Its pledges to tlio l.'ultos
States. The fulled St ties has odinltlcil
that !l "vessel elicni;,il ttil .,, ii, It,.,, i.l., I.
- -ll .1 .11
commerce and under n inmiiiiMdou of
oraer or ns i .ovt i ninent ' mty have a
"status tainted with u hoctlli. purpose
which It cannot throw osldn or assuma
nt will." The herinusncss ot the Itusslaq
case, therefore, will depend on the ,-har.
actor of that vessel under International
law.
01 AMERICANS ' ABOARD,
Mxty-nlne Were While nul
Tnriil).tmi .rsror.
Nr.WPOItT Nr.vvs, V.I.. I).o. I Then.
weio ninvty-ouo Americans on the llrlti
hli Mode 1 1 nut-port llus.sl.in, repot tc
sunk In the Jledlterinneaii on IWeinbcr
H by u submarine. Simv-iIlIu of tim
were white cattlemen and twenty-two ne.
grocs. in audition tlu-ie wus n vetcrle
nary surgeon, In- II, ,. i u pouter.
j no juissmn, niriiiciiy tho Vietm Ian,
was In command of Citpt. .Imnes lilchln.
son, ono of the oldest l.e.viaml ,w mnK,
ters. ino snip was said to have car.
rleil no annainetit when she sailed
from this port November I'!.
PLAN SHIPPING POOL
AS BLOW AT GERMANY,
French Deputy Slights AiU
mission of Xriitrnls to Win
Their Support.
Paris, Pec. iv fooling nf the shine
ping of tile Kntente Allies, to ihe exelu
slou ot the lliigs of nil t-tiniit i r nun' a
war with them, Is mui-stcd for th
economic stnigule oiecteil after lha
war b George Ani-el, a vpui front
Havrn and it specialist ,n ni, Ii que
Hons. '
As soon ns tin- sens are open to hof
merchant Meet, M. ine h;ih, Germany
naturally will iiiaKe an Immediate nn4
Violent effort to lei-oter lier Hllpplnj
trade. It Is his opinion tlmt i-li,, cx
peels discrimination ag:ilu-i bee Hag It
ports of France ;uul Gie.u UrilaM .ilitf
will endeavor to bring about -i ,hmi of
neutral shipping Intertvts to bo pooitj
with her own to help bei in lompcta
under their tlno In those, imris
To checUniat" such a move M Alice
proposes Ihe lidnil.-slon of iieiuriil ship
plug to the pool of ih.' Ilntenti lll.v
on condition Hut Hie uciitruw iikmc not
lo enter nu.v nldiiatlou u tn flipping
Interest living tho Hag of any nation
now at war with tho Kntonte. ,
