ON A REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWKXTr-SEVENTIt YEAR
16 PAv..
auvh8YH0BNIX, ARIZONA, TUESDAY MORNING, DECEMI5ER 19, 1916
16 PAGES
VOL. XXVII., NO, 214
THE
ARIZ
PROTOCOL IS NOT RATIFIED
BY CARRANZA BUT DOES
NOT MEAN ITS REJECTION
C011SSI
tPepubllcan A. P. Leased Wire
PHILADELPHIA Int. 1y-- ;, v.r; al
'artanza's represent at i c in the ."Icx-ican-American
joint cntnnii.ision ad
mitted ti) the American members tl;iy
that the protocol signed th-ee iwoks
ago a: Atlantic (. ity h i. I not !nn min
ified by I'urransm. They si. ptdcineiued
that admission, however, with a u.-clur-nt'on
of ili attitude of the j-arr;.i;
government and assured the Americans
.hat the delay in ritifii at. 0:1 did mil
signify the rejection of the agreement
which they had signed after almost
three months of conMUoiation.
The exact charac ter of the communi
cation from the Mexicans was not
made public hut it was evid. i:t at the
close of the conference that both Amer
icans and Mexicans regarded as prob
able the official sanction of the proto
col and tlie resumption of the ics-ioris
at which it has been planned to d-vcuss
Miicstlons at is.-ue between the two
governments.
It was indicated that Carranza had
withheld ratification when tli- p-uto. ol
as submitted to him I v A'hert.i J.
Puni, the commissioner who carried the
ilocument from Atlantic f'ity to ijurr
etaro. not so much because lie !oi.nd
the terms of the agreement impossible,
as because he feit that the declaration
of the United States governm'-r,; s .':
tude made t.y Secretary of the li'!r..r
Unc as chairman of the c ommi s.on.
made it inconsistent for him to ro rept
it without, in turn, defining tl.t e,-ti-:i
of his government.
Secretary Lane had ula-i-d before U
Mexican commissiono.'s a s up I'-r.v-rt 1'
statement in which he ha.l cleat ly indi
cated that the American gover ;-.ni':.
was determined to witness a-i iu.'rr''--inert
in conditions in Mtxico and trial
if it became necessary American troops
v.-nnld be sent across the horde r r pur
suit of bandits and that no restro -Hons'
as to how soon the pursuit v. oh.. I b
conducted would be tolerated. Aith.e.'.nh
not Included in the protocol, Carrnrra
Interpreted this' statement as v it 1 ! ly
connected W'Hh the agreement and has
protested against the pursuance of su'-h
a. ' olirv by the I'nited Stales.
To the conditions named in the u:o
tocol for the withdrawal of Ani-iiran
troops now in Chihuahua 1, ruler G-rr:al
Pershing, it is Lnderst'Mid he mcii-
serious objection. Th terms for t'eir
withdrawal, are that they s'..a I la
taken out again within forty dues ;.f
ter ratification of tilt protocol if in "rat
t'me bandits have rot alt.T'd r.l'
tions In that part of the country so
materially that the j.eaee of the border
would be menaced and that Carranza
would garrison the territory us the
Americans are withdrawn.
Carranza signed no command -ition
to the commission but aMthnri:-1 Mr.
Fan! to draft and to submit the
rnent intended as a counter declaration
'f policy. It was learned that the Mex
ican commissioners wete 1 mpowered to
use their judgment in phrasir s the
document and that thfy were urge, I by
Carranza not to cause a break with the
American if it could be averted.
Tonight the attitude of tile Ameri. wns
appeared to be that the measure would
be considered carefulie and it wa.; indi
cated that they perceived n it 11:1 in
superable bar to further debate. Un
less a break In the conference, now 1111
expecteil occurs, it was paid tonii;ht
thai the sessions might be contioueq
until near the end 1-? the -ik v. hen
an adjournment wjiid le ta.!-:"-n i.ntll
after New Years da.
Mr. I'ani appeared todav as tlio dom
inant member of the Mexican commis
sion, ulthmigh Luis Calueia retained
officially the chan nmnt hip. Il ex
plained verbally to tl.e Ameri -an.i at
the forenoon ressioti the manlier in
w-htch Carranza teeeived the proioro!
md later discussed the details of his
visit to juerctaro with Dr. J. R. .Vott,
of the American commission at ! "noh
'Continued tn Pane Five
1
SE
I -
If PDDl EITEIITE SHIPPING
AGAINST Hi EIEHT COUNTRIES
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
PAULS'. lice. IK.--Pooling of tli
Ki.ii.pii- i f tlie entente allies, to the
fcXcluKioii of the flaa of all cojntias
now at war with tnern, in HtiiifCHtcd
for the economic ttrtiKKlc t-xtie-i"ii
after the nar by 'leorics Ariol. a
deputy from Havre and ;f s;erialit
in such question. M. Ancel btiiev s
t!b beiielits. of poolinn, as iilutlrated
by the prosperity of utiippim; eo;nbl
natioriH hou,d be t;'ken into consider
ation In connection wilh the bu.loin?
of the i rencl. mereuant marine and
l'l ( oitsolid.it. iik th" position lileh
the a'lie.s hac Kained through the
I lorkade of Cermimv and Austr.a.
As aoon as the se.is are open to
her men hunt fleet, M. Ancel xnyn
'lermany naturally will make ;m mi
mediate and violent effort to re-over
her shlppinK. It is his opinio,) that
she expects diicdimin ition a(.'aiust he;
flap? in ports of l-rance and Croat
I I it;, in, and Will endea vor to brin
about a union of neutral Hhippini; in
teje ts to be f ooU-l with her own to
help her to comp"t under their finga
111 thore forts.
To chetkniate this nunc, M. Ancel
propnflcfl th.e a.lmif-sion of neui.Mi!
Hbippin? to thu ixiol of the entente
allies on conditions lliat Hie m;ii!rnls
tiurec not (a ri : ; r any coinbinai ion i
WlLLlSTAS MENACING
A JO; HELP IS NEEDED
(Special to The Republican)
AJO, Dec. 13. With a strong
Villista column recruiting within
ten hours' ride of this camp of 3.C0J
people, two banks and a number of
stores, and with positive knowledge
that the Villa rcneral Reyna adias
Carraneles and General Pedro Ri
vera, charged with several massa
cres have made plans to raid the
camp, there is urcert need here to
nicht for every (.ossiile influence
tc be fcrougnt to bear to bring in
federal troops to protect the com
munity. No troops are cn the line between
Ne-iles and Yurra, 300 miles. Tho;o
at Nogales. 150 miles fast are the
more available to Ajc. Trcons
which were stationed here were re
moved three months ago.
Accentuating the danger in the
local situation is the fact that there
are here a number of Chihuahua
and Sonora Mexicans who were
formerly employed but are now out
on strike. It is known that Villa
agents have been among these dur
ing the last ten days nd that some
ae ready to join the Sonora move
ment. A statement was irsued todiy by
Sheriff Forbes of Pima county, who
f Recublican A P. Lessei Wire
WASHINGTON. Live. IV--The laoi.i-
ligation of the lath-r.a: i;uurd lor to;-!
Or ierv;te was ilt-sr f o. -,t as a military '
failure. en:pfi;s;zui; tae ur.-.ent i;c. es- '
sity of a'iandonbi; the volunteer s.i- '
tetn as the nation s reuati'-e for defer. se
in statements today by Mimt itenetnb
Hugh L. Scott, chief o? staff of the ar- '.
my and Majoi -iJera-fal I-'card Wood, t
commanding the eastern b ;.: 1 tim-iii. i
I etore trie senate sub-comrhl' tee coh-j
xnleririK the Chamber lam nni . e; .,1 tn:!- j
itary training loll. ,
l'oth of the teiieials ad'.oa''-l Mti-;
versa! trattiir.s. liein-ral W ood .ie, ;red ,
that the loiirtry now v as uticriy de-j
!er:seiess airain-t a v.a- I o.-amzed foe: '
that the ttiobd'at ion w 1a a liaeuy. !
and that if the g: arj-np-r h:ol met
Loiod trooj,, tlii y "woui'l ne'er lotse!
know n v hat them." 'en-ra! S.-o;t topi ;
the committee that lessons drawn fp rut
the present war proved that in case or j
war i-.th a first class power, the 1'nitoil I
States would nee, 1 inrned.iitely :-'
named force of i,?,i). 1 men with an-;
other l.JOa.O'.'i available within 5u days.
' n the other sub- of the iue.-tion the
fen:m:f.Ff heard Walter I. IVhT ;f
Chicaso. fonii"r secretary of tue inter
ior who opposed universal service, ai
thouKii he stood for adeu;etu- defense
measures and suk'K-e.stod. a regular atmv
of half a million. He though! If the
lay of privates were tatsed lo ?.'n u
tnonth, the service wo-.ilJ be more at
tractive to reiruits.
iit-neral W'idiI. from whose depart
ment went Wet" of the euardstnen
sent to the border, said of the men en
rolled when the call came that an aver
age of 3m per cent of c;;eii company had
to 1 dropped for physical ! iVe is and
the orsanizat ions went to trie border
filled up with xreni men.
'It's been a trauedy." he said, "but
worth all it cost if se oalv profit by
it. It wa not the fault of the ofliccrs.
or men. but of a dcfe.-tiw system. If;
we had been compelled to meet stood
troops riov.n there it would have been
a scene of carnage. The guardsmen
would never have known what hit
them." ;
"Wh..t should we do Willi the nation-'
Continued on Pae Ilve
with shipping interests living the flair
of any nation nfw at wc.r with llc
entente, v
M. Am el i-onsiders it inadtnissla!-;
in any 'i.i-e to tolerate the flc.4 of
the (j.-rnuiiiic coalit'on on final frrr.::
in ports of the entente powers.
S MILITARY :
I FHEJGI1D I
i eilllli:
t
t
Charge Plot to Discredit
4 German Government Men
I Republican A. P. Leased Wire
j SAN l-ilANCICSO, c,,l., liec. l.v
Char,;s that A. Carnegie Itoss, l!i it
! iah Consul fcc ni in San Krnneic i.
I had plotted v, ilh secset ai nts to dia
Iciedit represeiiiaiiveH of the IPimai
Umcrnmi'iit in this city vice mad" by
the liefeniio todiy. In the trial of
ISirmati Con:ul Ccnerai l-'rnnz l ii.a
'in,! si:: others, charged v. 1th ccnsilr
in to violate American nejtrality by
dcytroyin Kuiuilitiou-i of war define.!
for ti e fnt" nt allied covet nments.
oft-, c, Orr. i.rivnte d.t":'tlve. a
Sovernrri'. nt witness- In the trial, said
on tin. M.and today that be hart seen
. loh nines Van Koolbei Ken, one of ti..'
is hore in which he expressed the
desire that all loyal Americans
stand ready to join in the protec
tion of women and children in camp
if the emergency should arise.
The New Cornelia Copper compa
ny immediately placed a train in
icadiness to convey all women and
children of the district to safety
in the event of need.
FORBES ISSUES APPEAL
TUCSON, Dec. 18. Sheriff
Forbes of Pima county, at Ajo, a
mining camp we3t of here, issued
an appeal tonight for assistance of
Americans in. that district in re
pelling any attack by Villa sympa
thizers in the event of an emerg
ency, according to word reaching
here. The Cornelia Copper com
pany is said to have offered to pro
vice a special tram to take women
and chddron out of the district.
Villa supporter; are reported to be
recruiting a force along the border
near Ajo to join the Sonoyta move
ment. Unconfirmed rjmort to
night said that the Viila leader
F.eyna had threatened to raid the
mining camp. Considerable ap
prehension, it was said, was felt
there.
-
PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE
URGES LESS WORRYING
WASHIN'.T' .N. I c. IV The :
public health s'-rvice which has
be' n K '.theriiT; statisti- on nerv
' us itisises and their temt.-ra y to
sho: ten hfe. today i-itue.l a b,.l
le'.in iiwal.-ist worrvini:. 'So tar as
is Utiov u." s;iyn th bnllrtitl. "no :
I'irii c er ti ted to build mule ne-us ;
ll.an I!;; n-i"i hl-l 1 ii fN 'VT
'r-tterl 1M i SO lie hid ouly O:.
bole in -Ahl-h to hide, no souirnT
e,-r da d of etix.ety ie.t he should
col lav by 'ii'U'Kh nubs for ftt
w:ntrs .nste.i.l of ,ne: and no
io lr lost ITV slleo o'.er bw 1
f:; f th.it he did not l a c enouuli
bones lau! ,-)!; for his e.'lmtU 1
TEUTDK SHELLS
SINK Si. ID
AIHNS DIE
reoublican A. . Leased Wire
- LONDON. Ikv. s. Se'.enteen
Ameri' an muieieers and eleven of
th" crew ol the Pril'sli hone trans
port ahip Hassan, which was sunk by
a s'.bmaune in J,e Mediterranean on
December 14. ha . e I ecu killed, th.
Utit'.'h admiralty annoumeK.
The admiralty unnuimeement fol
lows: The empty westbound Utitish liorse
Iraiistiort ship I'.'.tf.-.ian was mink by a
.so imarlne in the Mediterranean on
the I4tli. KloVcri of the crew werr
kilied. inrl'l'liutc tl'.c chief officer, tilt
first officer am! the second oftiei r
All seventeen Ameiie;,n muleteer:
were killed. Th' ir n imes have been
comnuinited to tne Americiiti consul."
Th" transport H'lSKian refcued to
pnd'ably in tue pritish steamer id
that name whi'h sail"! from New
rMut News. Novenila-r H, for Alex
an lrl i, K.'.vpt. w hi' h . v.'oulfl be about
ib e to return. Her n-t tonnage was
Many Americans Aboard
NKYVl'i iKT NKW.-. Va.. Dec. IS.
Tlfre were nitt'H-one Americans on
the Mriiish stoi k transport Russian,
repom-il sunk in the .kd,'ti-riamnn
b- a submarine.
Sify-idrht of them were white rat
tle men and twenty-two neKroen. In
addifion th'To vas a veterinary sur
ireoii. Dr. i;. A. Carpenter.
Columbian Crew Arrives
NKW VoI;K. Ix-c IV The Italian
te,. rriship C.isert i from Cenoa brought
la..:k to th'- l'nlte.1 States today 110
nieinbera of the crew of the American
steamship C'oltim uaik, which wan sunk
i h , a Cerrian roil marine on Novetn
' 1"T iff the .-'panish coast. The
I men. most of them horse tenders
: confi. iiicd the cable reports of th
ill-
el-'iefton hv the same submarine
of
f.'rlt isli ship, the Norwecian Bteamhhip
ralto anil the Swedish sloamshit
i V'arinjr. tttul of the traasfer of
; -rews of all three, i-v oidir of
the
the
I submarine commander to the Nor
; wckI.im steam.shii Kordalen, which
' which iand'd th"tu on the Spanish
const in lifi'boals.
1 defendants, untv a bomb wit'i a clo- li
lexplodiiiK dinii-c to the office of the
I'lorinun ronsul geni-r.-il on August IV
illMa. He tuilil Van KoolbeiKcn was
admitted to a room in th lonnulate
offhe u.sunlly i.-ccupied' h;' Mop).
1 Van Koolherneti disolaved Cue bomb
lo himaeif and to W. A. .Mund.'U.
head of a private li tei'tlve a','ency,
Orr t-stifkj.
"lloo't l.i,oe fhet tlo, lw rol,
: taken to Consul Itopp's office i.s a re
KU't of a frumetip between d-tectlvei
,and ilrltish Consul lieneial A. Car-jiit-ie
Ross?'' atiked Theodore A Uiwho,
jiuie of the counsel for the defense.
I otr denied that hi' had su.M Unov
, ed'e.
DNE SUSPECT
IN SIMPSON
CISPSDT
(Special to The Reoublican)
I'ltKSCi i'I'T. Dec. IS. (Hi.; suspect
whom the authorities are positive in
one of the men who killed .lolin and
Nelson Simpson in Crooks' Canyon last
Thursday, wa placed under arrest by
a sheriff's posse in a lonely cabin
about TO miles from Here In the W'aK
oner district curly Sunday morninK.
He nave his mime as Harry Kendall,
hut it is believed tlmt this Is a fictitious
name, as lie had destroyed . the ad
dress on several letters found in his
liossession.
A posse led by William I'itzneralil.
local constable, took up the trail of
the fugitive early Saturday mornims
and tracked him through the wildest
country in tho county. Uel'ore niuht
fall they learned that he had aouitlit
shelter in a cabin of a rancher named
Harper, in the Wanoner district, and
after Kumnindinn the place and cutting
off all avenues of escape, they waited
until daybreak before approaching his
hiding place.
They entered the cabin early In the
mornirm and found Kendall aslee i.
He surrendered without fchuwinK fiKht
and was brought to the county jail. He
Aas Liter Identified as one of (he men
In. was being sought by the Simp.-on
brothers lust Thursday morning und
who was later arrested by them on a
iharKe of burKlaiy.
A larije posse In still scurchinir f ir
the other murderer and from last re
ports was closely following a promis
ing clue.
Kendall und his partner had pal ted
company on the r.m of the Itriolshaws.
according to the story read in their
footprints by members of the posse.
Roth had apparently become lost.
Kendall walked bark to within fifteen
mile on an air-line from the point ut
which the killing occurred.
Fitzgerald wai; accompanied ly
Fraid; Condon und Joe Campbell, spe
cial deputies on this case.
IJucstioiied In the sheriffs office
here. Kendall told some very rambling
stori .s to uccount for his presence at
Walnut C.rove the day of his arrest.
A! first he said he had erne from
tllobe and had been in l'hoenix. Me
told of leaving the train at Heardslcy
and walking to Walnut Crovc. letter
be said he had left the train at Hot
Springs Junction.
When sear- hed by Fitzgerald. Ken
dall had a .3's talibre Iver Johnson re
volver with a long barrel. He said he
bad bought the weaiw.n from a man
named Zi'gi.r at. Risbee. The gun
was practically new.
J.uter tonight it was learned that
another section of the posse had trailed
Kendall's partner to within a short
distance of.Siull Valley. A freight
train was assies trrongb uf.'ut il.e
time the ina-i should have atrived und
officers here lave notified Maricopa
county authorities to watch the trams
J"i.ity Sheriff Lib Luke and City
I'olioemeu Stewart and Kills were
placed on guard on the Santa Fe right
of way near Six I'oints ami were pre
pared to arrest an) one found ridi'ig
the two jute fre.ght trains from the
north. At i;:3'J they had not re
ported. EHMBARG0 ON FREIGHT
IPepubhran A. . Leased Wire)
OCiiKN. I'tah. Ir. IV An em
bargo or. all competitive freight oriK
biating In the Liteimountain country
for points east and west was ordered
today by K. C Manson. superintendent
of transportation of the Oregon Shmt
Line. The embargo will be In effect
from December 26 to January 7 and
ha-s been ordered to give the road an
opport jinty to clear up it traffic. It
Is u measure which has been .taken
by all units of the Cnion I "antic sys
tem In an effort to relieve the exist
ing car shortage.
CAPTAIN LEE IS DEAD -
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
FliKI I-;Ki 'KSRl'T'.i ;. Vs., Dec. 1
- Captain Dtmlel M. Ice, brother of the
late (leneral Fltzhugh Iee. and nephew
of Ceneral Robert K. J-ee. died here
hist night ot the age of 71 years. He
aerved in the confederate navy.
PRINCESS CHI MAY DEAD
DETROIT. Mich.. Dec. 1 V I'rlncess
Caruman Chiinay, formerly Miss Clara
Ward of Detroit, died at her villa In
Italy today, according to advices to
the Detroit Free l'ress. The cause of
death is not given.
Clara Ward was horn in Detroit in
1X73. the daughter of wealthy parents.
At the age of 17 she was mrarled to
Prince Joseph de Caraman Chlmay, a
Relgian nohlemun. She was divorced
from the prince a few years luler.
T
BANK; ESCAPE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
HRCSH, Colo., Dec. 1 V Sheriff,.
pusses it ml a large number of civilians
,atp today abandoned pursuit ot twi
lubbers who entered the Stockmcn'i
national bank here at !i o'clock thlt
mornlnif and escaped in a high pow
ered automobile wilh between :,,W
and IS.omi. Trace "f tl e robbers wn
lost several miles, northeast of her.
and the chase- wiih halted.
The two men, with their Caps pull 'd
down over H eir ev.s, entered the ban!
tunt at opening time. Cashier A. 1'
Fierlcks ur.d three other lunk im
ployees were instantly covered nni
orib-red nut to make an outcry. Tin
runnier and assistants were: forced ti
lies face- down on the floor while 11k
rot hers crabbed nil the silver anr.
cirreiu'v 'n sight. Then the bunk of
ficials were marched Into the vaul
and the vault door locked The i a h
irr and his companions managed ti
Mitricate themselves by means of a
rear vault door. Hv this time the rub
bers had fled in their machine.
ROBBERS LOO
IN nU IB
Hunt Contest Quashed; No
Case Without Certificate
ATTORNEYS OUTLINE
TODAY'S
The attorney general of Arizona
will be the intervenor this morning
in the Maricopa county superior
court in on effort to expedite the
Hunt-Campbell election contest,
and to get it into the supreme
court before Christmas. This was
the announcement of Wiley Jones
last night.
Jones, while a Hunt adherent,
has ottered the good offices of his
pos.tion to the legal forces arrayed
in the governorship battlo. and as
an official of the state will be neu
tral. He has offered to enter into
an agreement with counsel for
both aides to sign all papers r.ec
etsary to quicken the pace of the
contest, to make the battle easier,
and to bring about a fair decision.
The program for today is this:
Counsel E. S. Ives, for Governor
EIX IS DEATH TOLL 9
OF FI3E IN HOTEL :
CH K" V KNNK IVvo. Inc.
I The todies of Mrs. Kay A. White. 1
! of liasles. i ill., and three children
! were r.-moi ed today fioin the ruins I
! of the Tnterocean hotel, which 1
1 was destroyed by fire her.- last
I last night. The body of Mr.
! White v.as recovered late last '
' night. A nine-months-old baby
. v.ns rescued alive bv f.remen. but j
i died shortly afterward. White !
i met death by jumping from a third '
1 str- window- when be came in :
! con'act with Jhe w'res and was '
' ele. trocuted. Fire nroke out in
the paint shoo and stotehouse of i
i the I'nioti i'aeific railroad at the !
' at the time the hotel wi-s burning. !
' The railroad property was prae- '
I ticiMv desiroved at a loss esti-
mated at 1 ; li.t'UO. Roth fires .
! wi-e aid to have been due to de- I
I feollve wiring.
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire
OMAHA. !-. IS. Witnesses for the
d"feie in the government, suit
agiinst the I'nlted States KJvestork
ompanv and the Omaha la, ad and
Investment Company for use of the
mails to defraud in salts of Arizona
mustangs, which, it is charged, were
represented as "bred up from import
ed I'errheioiis" and that purchasers
were defrauded of $l,n.i.iitn. today
te-ttified there were "thousands and
thousands" of the wild horses "roani-
inn around'' on the government res-
rvation in I oconlno county. Arizona.
K. W. Arnold, stockman, related
lio-v he an 1 C. A. Smith, a defendant,
hint borrowed niuo fr.-m a bunker
-it Newport. Nebraska, and purchas
ed ell brand of wild horses on the
range they could secure. He said he
saw "li.iHiii to 4. "00 wild horses and
actually caught il.'.o head, which were
-.hipped to omoha and auctioned off.
Arnold declared he was high bidder
for a maiority of the horses, pur
chased them at $;10 a head and ship
ped them to his ranch.
On cross examination, Arnold ad
mitted the horses were "very wild
lid ue .nb-iht have seen some of them
ever.il times and counted thim among
the ".Mil".''
Arnold testified he "saw something
(Continued on Page Two)
- -. m -w .
71 f T J O 1 1 T Td
IVI I I 1 I I VI iT. f.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
' WASHINGTON, Dec. 1 S.--Ft esident
Wilson and the cabinet already have
begun consideiallon of wavs to raise
revenues to meet the threatened de
ficit on June 110. IMS. The president
let it is be qnown that he hud reach
ed no conclusion, but In general was
opposed to bond issues except to meet
"xpenditiircs. of a temisirary nature.
He probably will address congress on
;he subject later-
In this connection the possibility of
the continuance of the patrol of the:
Mexican bolder Into the next fiscal
year Is being taken iiuo consideration.
To keep the expenses of the gov
ernment as low as possible, the presi
dent wMI larclully scrutinize all the
appropriation bills.
In a. conference with Chairman
'Jparkman. of the house rivers und
hit rl loi-s committee todav. he urged
that tho rivers und harbors bill now
heimr drawn t.rovide onlv for urgent-
ly necessary expenditures. Another
-onferenre will he held before the bill
THOUSANDS AND.
u rctK in
iiiuuuniiuu ui j
WILD HORSES
Colodny Dismissed From
Us A. Huntism Cause, Said
(Special to The Republican) (tain of his public utterances did not
TFCSON, Dec. lS.-That the univer-' et-t the approval of the university ad
' ,, .ministration. Colodnv I.s editor and
ilty board of regents has notified ro- ( publisher of the Arizona Teacher, a
'essor Isador Colodny of the depart- periodical devoted to the interests of
ment of Knglish that his services as n pedagogues. lie has been active in his
member of the faculty will not he re
quired alter January 1st, was made
public this evening by Professor Colod-j
v himself In an announcement before
the Sock and lluskin Club il student
organization.
Professor Colodny Intimated that the
-eason for his suspension was that ret '
PROGRAM
Hunt, as a move made necessary
by yesterday's decision of Judge
Stanford to throw the contest out
of court, will bring a suit to enjoin
Secretary of State Sidney P. Os
born from issuing a certificate of
election to Thomas E. Campbell.
The attorney general will demur to
that suit, acting at a state official
for a state official who it made
the subject of an injunction pro
ceeding. Unofficially, but on good
authority, it it stated that the de
murrer will be tustained. Senator
Ives will then appeal direct to the
supreme court of the state, which,
it is understood, will lay aside all
other business in order to act on
this matter.
According to Jones, there is a
good chance to get the contest out
of the trenches by Christmas or
at least by New Year's.
LLOYO GEORGE
TO PEACE NOTE
I Republican A. P. Leased Wire
I LONDON. lec IS The sieech or
Premier Lloyd-George in the house ol
commons tomorrow is looked forward
, by the press and public as the most
important utterance of the kind since
the memorable sMeches in which
Yiyccnnl lired discussi d whether Great
, Rtitain would come into the war. Mr.
I.lodi-George has recovered from his
indisposition and was at wurk today.
H-.' will ns to address the commons
tomorrow at about four o'clock and
probable will speak for an hour and a
half.
The prime minister's six-ech nut onlv
'.vll be a reply to the German Jieace
note, but also will outline the whole
poll, y of the new national government,
i the trend of which may be roughly
anticipated from the fact that the new
ministry is avowedly in power for the
definite object "of ii.rrilng on the war
with all the vigor the nation can com
mand to a sueces'-fu! md."
To.lav's nev from government cir
cles Included tl.e announcement .'
the departure of Mr. R-ilfour, the sec
retary for foreign iffairs. for three
weehs" vacation. Although his Vaca
tion comes si an Imp. rtant juncture,
the organization of the foreign office
tximits affa'tT to proceed uninter
ruptedly under the direction of Lord
Itobiit Ce.il -md I l,i run Hardinge, th
under secretaries, while the larger
questions of ceniril policy doabtiesF
will receive the attention of the war
cabinet. mr which the prime min
ister prei'!"s. Lords Curron and Mil
mi also being members with wide
I'ipli matic experience.
j It is revalbul tuat Mr. Halfour's
resignation as foreign minister met
wilh severe criticism from the North
rllfie press, : ml Lord Northcliffc
hunself nr'.-cd Mr. Llnyd-George to
follow the precedent of Lord Salis-bu-v
in directing foreign affairs as
veil as assuming the premiership
While Mr. Ihilfonrs absence is said
to lp due to indisposition following
illness, and there is no suggestion of
its be.ng prolonged lieyond three
weeks, yet it has the eflect of leav-
i leg '.he shaping of the largir policies
regarding the German note ant other,
foreign issues largely in the hands of
the premier.
I Paris Receives Note
I I'V ilS, Dec. Iv The Ami-ria.n em
bassy tra.'.'imitt'
d the German peace late; ,hnt ,,,e '8I'ectlon had been or
'.' h foreign office to- dered in the first place by the court af-
note to th" Free.
day.
-n. -w-, . i the court. To this Judge Campbell ob-
1 Tl iv If T ''jjei'ted that Mr. Ives was misinterpret -
I J Pj P I I j I I ng the record: that no condition had
is introduced. Many new projects
have been faxorul'lv passed upon but
will not be included in this year's bill
for eennomy's sake.
0
1URDERERS
Republican A. P. keced Wire
MASON" CITY. III.. Dec. IS. Charles
Totn.as. 31. and Jack Thomas'. IT.,
Mere arrested today as the suspected
slayers of John I HeeWcr, HI, and his
wife. s:, wealthy .Mason cc.urty rcsi-
(dents, who
their home
were found murdered m
Saturday morning.
llloohounds brought from Spring
field to trail the slayers went directly
support of certain of the so-called Hunt
policies, including prison reform and
the ulHilition of capital punishment.
His activity resulted in charges be
ing made by certain portions of the
press that he was unduly uctive in pol
itics and that he was a, political appointee.
1
STRUGGLE
TOHOLpSTATUS.
UUUIStUIILt
There is no gubernatorial contest in
Arizona at present. There was one a
thriving one a day or two ago. but it
has been ijuashed, Hnuashed. mashed
and otherwise made as if it had never
existed. Only the debris of it is left.
Judge Stanford yesterday morning
granted the motion of the attorneys
for Mr. Campbell to dismiHS the pro
ceedings on the ground that on account,
of the character of it; that i.s, because
it had not been officially determined
that there wan anything to contest
over he had no jurisdiction. A pre
requisite of the contest must 1 an of
ficial declaration that Mr. Campbell
had been elected and that declaration
must take the form of an election cer
tificate. Mr. lies, attorney for Governor
Hunt, the contestant, gave notice of an
appeal from the order. There was no
objection to that, but when he a.skec
the court for a supersedeas bond, pre
serving the status quo; that Is to say. a.
continuation of the inspection of the
ballots, there was a development of op
position. Judge Stanford announced that a de
cision would be made on that request
at 1:30. At that hour the attorneys or
both sides went into conference with
the judge in chambers and at half past
two o'clock when court was opened.
Judge Stanford announced that in view
of his ruling in the morning that he
had no jurisdiction, he would 'have to
deny the motion of Mr. Ives. The ques
tion of continuing the inspection was
then taken up. The court was about to
rule that the insjwetinn must stop,
pending the decision of the supreme
court, hut at the request of Mr. Ives he
let that matter go over until eleven
o'clock today in order that Mr. Ives
might have an opportunity to apply for
a writ of prohibition to restrain the
lower court from interfering with the
inspection or, as has been stated, to
prevent the lower court from not doing
something.
No application was made to the su
preme rourt yesterday afternoon. Thus
the future of the contest is clouded. It
is not expected that an imediate order
will lie issued by the court. There arc
several things that may happen: for
instance, the isuance of .1 certificate
of election to Mr. Campbell: the insti
tution of a contest in another county
before a more complaisant judge.
The granting of the motion to quash
in the morning followed an argument
against it by Mr. Ives. The motion of
Mr. Ives for a supersedeas bond
brought Judge Sloan to his feet in a
spirited objection. Judge Campbell de
clared that the motion was without
precedent and Mr. Eullard pointed out
the absurdity of the proposition. Said
he: "We have here now the Isallots
from only two of the counties where
Hunt received large majorities, Cochise
and Yuma. The court has declared it
self to be without jurisdiction in the
case. Now. suppose we proceed with
the inspection pending action by the
supreme court and this court should
make an order for the transfer of tho
ballots from other counties to Mari
copa. The treasurers of those counties
would not he bound to pay any atten
tion to an order of the court in a mat
ter in which it has itself declared it
self to be without lurisdiction."
Judge Campbell said that throughout
the contestant had not acted in good
faith. He referred to the separate
contests that had been started in Nav
ajo and Apache counties.
In the afternoon Mr. Ives offered a
series of objections to an order by
Judge Stanford against the continua
tion of the inspection. He said that
the contest was no longer within the
iurisdiction of the court: that the
ground on which the proceedings had
been quashed had been advanced too
late; that the inspection had been or-
iei ine i . . in pi in uce oi me cuiiiesi.ini
with conditions imposed upon him by
leen imposed as to the beginning of
the contest but that the court had
stated that the proceedings might be
stopped unless the contestant should
cause the ballots of the counties in
(Continued on Page Two)
L
OE AGED COUPLE
i to the residence of the Thomas boys,
one mile north of the Becker farm.
Kmpty shells found nt the scene of
I the nvinrdrr tallied with those found
! in a fourteen-shuL calibre rii V
found in the Thomas home. tSuilcts
taken from the bodies of the victiinti
also tallied with those m the car
tridges in the tcun. Eleven empty car
tridges were found. Three were not
discharged in the gun found at the,
Thomas home.
The aged couple were made to suf
for horribly before they wee killed.
uncials said. Moth bodies wire mu
tilated and bruised.
That the slayers intended to fin
tile premises to coneeul the crime i
believed. The tops of two oil tami
had been unscrewed and the or.
poured over the bodv and clothing
of Mrs. Becker. The torch was thn''
applied but the fire soon spent b"
force and went out. However, tlur
clothing on the lower part of tli
woman' body was burned and tho
limbs left, in a charred condition.
The slayers secured approximately
114,000. relatives of the couples' said.
Several thousund dollars Was over
looked. Tho two Thomas boys live on
farm owned hv William Becker, a son
of the slain Becker and his wife.
