'II
PAPER WITH THE iP 1& ! iSfS 1 nflM SS l$-ftt 'fl'B 1 r vi. wi.' im-Jim ll
rTT?rTTT atthm fe. S i 3 SL z H w H h 111 n H rift PHbhIB w Brfia iKr "l!i CHAMPION i flBJ
CIRCULATION 'CW 1 T &P M ftg. y JT MM f OIL Sg &I CACIIE VALLEY IN- II
I W p SM' By y &. DUSTRIES II
FOURTEENTH iYEAR " 1 0('rr'7'17r " -; 1
LUGA CACHE COUNTY, JTAII, 1UJS :AY, DECEMBER 19, 1916, PAPI? ,ptT1-n II
, LOCAL HOSPITAL
PROVES BEMEFIT
I TO COMMUNITY
M Probably no institution In Logan
ll ha8 dono moro to advertise, favor-
!1 ably, Logan and Cache Valley, than
1 lias tho Utah-Idaho Hospital. Sltu-
M ated on tho brow of Tomplo Hill
it occupies tho most ideal sight for
R a hospital in tho cntlro valley, up
1H , ilwi.l if iff liiiifiiniMim nm
B VTAIMDAHO HOSI'ITAJj
H out of tho Hmoko and dirt of tho
BJ city whero tho perpetual canyon
Bj breeze carries lifo and strength to
Bj ail in need. Of pretentious outward
H appcaranco it Is tho embodiment of
UH all tho newest ideas in modern, flro
proof, hospital construction. The
US building has four floors. Tho lower
ijj devoted to tho kitchen, dining
)n room, fruit and vegetable store
i.fl rooms, both well filled witli supplies,
V laundry, heating plant, laboratuiyj
V and X-Itny photography room. This j
I is ono of tho most important rooms
M In tho building, equipped with an
X-Itay machine ns powerful and ef-
fcctlvo as can bu bought. In this
M department wo wore shown somo
very remarkable photographs m.ulo
by the members of tho hospital ,
9 medical staff. The second, or main
0 floor, contains tho reception room J
II and tho superintendent's oilier, and
looms for patients. The third floor
E contains patient looms and the nur
B sos' nuarters. Tho top, or fourth
ffi floor, is occupied by two npaciou-
B and perfectly lighted opi-r.it'uk
B rooms, tho storillzing plant a
B mcdlclno cabinets. Tho operating
rooms nro as comploto In equipment
and as conenlont In arrangement
as modern Ideas and oxporienco can ,
make thorn. This Is ono depart
ment that tho medical director 13
especially proud of, for hero Is I
found ovory Instrument or appllanco
necessary In performing major or
minor operations. Safety flrst Is
tho watchword and throughout Is
found tho utmost in cleanliness and
sanitation, all of tho rooms being
strictly sanitary in furnishings. Tho
hospital was built through the unit
od efforts of some of tho most pro
minent citizens of the valley becauso
tho need of an Institution of this
kind in this valley was so keenly
felt. And from tho beginning It has
grown steadily in popularity and
patronago, as nn examination of tho
records show that during 1915 418
cases woro treated with a mortality
rato of 2.7 per cont. And during
101G somothlng ovor COO cases have
heon treatod with tho mortality rato
Ifllghtly bolow that of last year, a
argo porcontago of which woro
oporatlvo casos of all kinds and do
grees of seriousness. Phis very low
mortality rato Is very romarkahlo
when ono stops to romumhor that a
patlont is usually takon to tho hos
pital only as a last rosort, so to
fcpeak, or, at any rato, after a do
ddedly sorlous stago has beon reach-
M So wldoly lias tho famo of this
1 Institution spread that tho casos
Imvo como from all parts of tho In-
tcrmountnln country; from Canada
H nnd states of tho Pacific coast.
B The rocord Is ono that wo vonturo
to say can not bo matched nnywhern
9 within tho torrltory thoy sorvo, and
9 '' Is largoly duo to threo things.
Bj Tlrst, tho skillful sourgory; socond,
H tlio high degroo of sanitation found
IB thore, and third, tho export nursing
HJ and attention given tho patlonts.
BJ Tho nursing Is undor tho very
Wm ttl)le supervision of Miss Sarah
ffl natow nnd n comploto rocord of
HP overy patlont Is mado nnd a roport
KM t thejr condition la mado every two
; SA1NTA CLAUS"".D i SCO VR PR n
IIcrouLI, arc shvn l..,M ,. . ,s, oillfals, !,., mu. 1, ul 11.- ,1, s- .os ,, .. , it, ...,. ... . . f. ,"lhT,B Hrl, .!,
theic Iiihc been moie public imiu-o tin. nls (ban thero has been bef.i, Miro il.i- ti'.-m.-nt 01 1 . , ... it.-, .
I ' " ,
JInjor 1'. A. Tlmtcher Commissioner James Larsen Commissioner .lolm gmil i:niiuor Hoy lliillcn
hours during tho entire tlmo thoy
aio patlonts of tho hospital. 1
Dr. D. C. Hudge, tho medical dir
ector, mado a study of hospital con
struction and visited most of tho
hospitals throuout tho country and
thon brought from that trip of in
spection tho Ideas out of which this
modern sanitarium was constructed.
And whllo thero nr many larger,
thero aro nono better. It Is truly a
shrine to which tho sick In body
may go with tho assurance that tho
utmost In medical or surgical skill
may bo had and glen without favor.
When wo woro at tho hospital less
than ono week ago overy patient
room In tho building was occupied.
Now tho striking thing about all
tho cases treated at tho hospital Is
that both patlonts and relalves or
frlonds all leavo highly satisfied with
tho treatment and recommend It to
others who may need such treat
ment. That 1 Btho secret of tho
stoady growth in tho patronago of
tho Institution. A majority of tho
doctors in tho valley aro on tho
medical staff of tho hospital and a
largo percentage of tho casos In tho
valloy that neod l.ipltal ienrlco go
to this sanitarium. Tho citizens who
at flrst woro doubtful aro now loud
In pralso of aud aro proud to bo
Identified with It. It Is worthy tho
support of all loyal cltlzons as its
blessings go to all allko.
jv.eep Utah moaoy in Utah,
mjmtmmtwtmkmmmmmW
GREAT MANY CIVIC
IMPROVEMENTS FOB
LOGAN OURilG TEAR
As wo look back over the laiSt'year
wo And the same progressive spirit
which has distinguished Logan's
growth for the paBt threo years, tlll
with us, undiminished, but rather In
an accelerated form.
Logan's progress lias been so mar
ked and so steady and healthy that
sho is fast attaining the reputation
of being the most up to date small
city In tho stato of Utah.
The men who aro lanroly respon
sible for the "Now Logan," with her
wide cleanpaved stroets in tho busi
ness district and her beautiful park
ed streets In tho resident district;
with her excellent wator system sup
plying tho city with tho purest and
best wator in tho world; and many
other minor improvements, are to bo
congratulated.
These mon have worked untiring
ly and against somo of tho stubborn
est kind of opposition, to bettor tho
clvla conditions of tholr city, and
have In threo years established a
new era of actlvlt uhir-'.i will no
doubt maintain its acceleration in
definitely. Tho public is fast reali
zing that tho servlco which tltoso
men aro rendering is ono entirely of
unselfishness but rather ono of pub
llo splrltedness, filled with long
hours of work and study to bring
about substantial Improvements and
better living conditions In Logan
Tho Commercial Boosters' Club, tho
Women's clubs and many other or
ganizations, as well as a groat many
private cltlzons, havo rallied to tho
support of tho city odlcers, to such
an extent that tho healthy spirit of
progross has spread to every co
ot tho city. The day whon tho ,. m
mlsslon had to forco Improvements
upon tho proporty owners has pass
od. Petitions and committees from
various sections of tho city aro num
erous in tho commissioners' cham
hers, pleading for Improvements,
such as sidewalks oxtonslon, wator
main extensions, sowor latoralp, curb
and gutter districts, street paving
districts, electric light extension,
parking and many othor minor Im
provements. Beginning with next year It Is pro
bablo that tho commission will havo
to proceed with Improvements In
tholr order according to priority of
applications nnd petitions.
Somo of tho public work which
was accomplished In 1J1C by tho
city 1b as follows:
A Itelnfmccil ConciWo Colored
Itesenolr.
This reservoir has a capacity of
ono million gallons. It Is located at
tho head of tho wator distribution
systom of tho city and servos to re
gulate and equallzo tho prossuro In
tho mains at all times, and maintains
amplo resorvo for flro protection.
Street I'uwmciit.
Through tho co-oporatlon of tho
city, tho stato, tho Ogdon Logan &
Idaho Hallway Co., and tho abutting
property owners tho paving tho
south main streot has beon carried
through to completion. This paving
district, which Is ono of tho largost
paving districts Installed In the state
this year, coinprisos about twonty
fivo thousand squaro yards of pavo
mont togothor with tho grading, curb
lug, guttering, parking, etc. neces
sary to mako tho improvement com
plete tho entire width of tho streot.
In connection with this work the
hrldgo built across Thatchor Mill
(Conttnuvd on page six)
Toiirsf 'i
BtCiitf E UTAH'S I
THIRD CITY (I
t 11 m
IIo wwould ou llko to seo Logan Sfl
( wltll n First Class Postolllco? At MM
,010 present tlmo It appears that a ' mI
First Class postolllco of this city M
will bo announced at tho closo of II
business December 31st, 1!)1C. To ffl
got a WFIrst Clashs postolllco, It re- jffl
I'OSTMASTKIt .1. S. UliAIK Wk
;-. . H
lulros $10,000 of stamp business jM
during tho year. Tho local olllco nil
has nearly reached that mark and in IH
all probability will do no beforo tho OH
abovo ditto la readied. HI
Tho fiscal year ending December HI
31st 1915, finished with a business jl
of $37,000. That mail: has already HI
beon surpassed this year anil tho 99
jbjslne&s 111011 of this city havo a 11
U-nn Interest In Beolng thnt tho re- l-il
qulrmpiit of Undo Samuol with ro- (, til
fen nco to getting Into a class with all
ii;don and Salt Lako' can bo an- MM
iioiinccd by Postmaster Illalr when Ml
l makes up his annual roport. mm
'! I10 poHtmastor, too, is anxious Kjl
obmii tho matter and has beon boost- uu
ik thnstamp business. IIo has re- ' fflm
c. ivnd credit for tho stamp business 1 1
( ilf Mountain States Telephono j El
r'oi- pany, which credit hcretoforo Hi
uas gnno to tho Denver olllco. Tho Bl
same is truo In tho case of tho Con- 'SI
solldatcd Wngou nnd Machine Com- PI
p.ui) which credit has horetoforo I
gone to Salt Lako City. ' Rl
Tho contributing causes for tho 01
big Incroiiso In tho buslnoss of tho 91
local olllco, Is tho fact that tho four Ml
local Knitting factories havo had an "iMI
unprecodont parcel post business ,lffll
during tho past season. This busl- tll
ness promises to bo oven greater nn- ,X
other year as the Union Knitting
fnctory has built a now factory and
will go after business stronger than Bl
over. ;
Logan has been growing rapidly !
tho past fow years and tho coveted H.
tltlo of "Third City in Utah" has M
been a slogan that tho buslnoss mon m
her would llko to seo undisputed. A ,m
flr-t class post-ofllco will bring with
It additional help and with addition- J I
al holp, bettor serico to tho patrons B
of the olllco. B
Postmastor Hlalr's report will bo !
watched with Interest. 'H
JOHN W. LEISIBIAN
John W. Lolshman, at ono tlmo a V
popular druggist nt tho Itltor Drug
Store, Is now conducting a success- 'H
fill grocery business on South Main '
streot. Mr. Lolshman says ho Is glv- Mt
en loyal support by tho peoplo of his ''BBJf '
neighborhood and ho Is dollghtod K
with the outlook for his buslnoss in h
tho futuro. W
MARTHA H. BENCH ll
Mrs. Martha II. Bench and daugh- ll
tor Allco of tho Sixth ward havo sue- l
cossfully conducted a staplo grocory iMf
and dry goods business on South 18
Main street for tho past sovon years rfl
They nro glvon a liberal patronago fffl.
by their numorous neighbors who H
consider It a convlononce to havo a fB
grocery Btoro so handy that thoy Q
might drop In any tlmo of tho day W
and get the ncedod housohold arti- A
clos. jfll
Be loyal to your stato and patron Wk
ha Utah Industries..
a? "-'"''IhiT'imt" " "T mSBBbI
matmyAj7m S""1" ,?
