THE GYPSY WELL IN THE FOX FIELD COMES IN A GOOD ONE; HEALDTON CRUDE JUMPS TEN CENTS
4w w
ARDMORE, OKLA.. TUESDAY. DECEMBER 19. 1916
VOLUME TWENTY-FOUR
NUMBER 63.
IENISFIOCI DEFENSE PUffl
EETHMANN-HOLLWEG, WHO ANNOUNCED GERMANY'S
READINESS FOR PEACE
mmm
I
r:jK
1EIIS ATTACK
II
OHTHERUSSMN PtflCE REQUISITE
GERMANS CLAIM TO HAVE RE
PULSED FRENCH EFFORTS TO
ADVANCE.
GET MDBE PRISONERS
More Than One Thousand Russian and
Rumanian Prisoners Taken, Accorc
ing to Berlin Paris Reports
man Raid on Somme Was Failu.
Berlin, Dec. 111. The French troops,
undertaking an advance In the vicln
li y of Rheims yesterday, were re
pulsed liy German fire, Hit- war ofllco
reports. Also the capture of more
tlian one thousand Russians ami Ru
manians on the Rumnnlun front. It
Is announced that the Russo Ruman
ians are continuing their retreat In
Dobrudja, approach ins t lie lower Dan
ube. German Attack Failed.
Talis, Dec. 19. The German raid
last night on the Somme north of
Sailly-Salllsel was without permanent
success, the war office says. Artll
cry fighting Is reported on the Verdun
front In the region of Louvemount and
Chabn ttes.
Swiss Short of Cereals.
Berne, Switzerland, Dec. 19. The
Swiss government has prohibited the
sale or consumption of new bread, In
order to economize t he stock of ce
reals. Since the beginning of the war
Switzerland has purchased 54rt,0in,OOu
worth of American wheat.
GIVE YOUR MITE AND
MAKE THE KIDDIES HAPPY
If you have not already done so,
give -your contribution to the Santa
Clans fund of the Chamber of Com
merce today and make some child
happy.
At the stockholders' meeting of the
hotel yesterday afternoon, the Santa
Claus fund was increased sixty dol
lars, and every dependent family giv
en a good Christmas dinner begins
to look like a reality.
The tickets are being distributed,
and there Is going to be a great crowd
of happy ones at the Chamber of Com
merce next Sunday afternoon. Mrs.
Kahn and Mrs. Curtis are delighted
. at the prospects and are the happiest
women in town.
There are scores of people still who
annually contribute for the work of
the Benevolent association who have
not yet done so, and these will do so
this week.
It makes no difference whether the
money Is given to the Santa Claus fund
of the Chamber of Commerce or to the
Benevolent association, aj after the
Christmas tree all remaining In the
fund will be turned over to the asso
ciation. MAYOR CALLS ON COMMISSION.
Exchange of Greetings Interfered With
Discussion of Question.
rhiladlphia., Ta Dec. 19. An ex
change of calls between Mayor Smith
and Chairmen Lane and Cabrera, in
terrupted the discussion of the Mexi
can problem by the commission today.
Bank Cashier Kills Himself. contract that two additional stories
Su-asburg, Colo., Dec. IS. The 'he added if sufficient stock were sold
body of J. P. Hardin, all years of age, j to pay for same. Roy Johnson and
cashier of the State Bank of Stras-. Chas. von Weise, two of the directors,
burg, was found on a vacant lot here immediately started the bail rolling
today with two bullet wounds in the for the two additions? stories by an.
head. .Mr. Hardin went to the bank nouncing their willingness to greatly
as-usual this morning and found a 'increase their stock If sufficient oth
sign over the door reading. "Closed 'ers would do tiie same. Mr. Sharp
by order of the State Banking Com-j said he was w illing to bring his
tiiissioner.'
Mrs. J. D. Lucas and children from
Amaiillo, Texas are here visiting
Jlrs. Lucas' sister, Mrs. C. Stubble
field. (FORES
i EOT S
niti. ..ill
SECRETARY SAID TODAY HE WAS
UNDECIDED REGARDING BEST
METHOD OF DEFENSE.
CHANGE IS flEEOEO
Army Officers Declare That Present
National Guard System is Complete
Failure and That United States is
orepared for War.
,
Wa. X. 'lee. lit. Secretary of
War 11., He bouse military
affairs con?. ay that he Is un
decided whelh. .niversal military
service or a system or selective con
script Ion was the best method of pre
paiing our national defense.
Major General Scott, chief of slalT
of the army and Major General Leon
ard Wood, commanding the eastern
department, appeared before the sen
ate sub-committee yesterday and de
clared the present national guard sys
tern Is n complete failure and that
this government is unprepared for
war with a lirst -class power. General
Wood declared that the people will
endorse universal compulsory ser
vice and t hat labor will support such
a plan, when assured that all men,
rich and poor alike, will share in mill
tary service.
WEALTHY TULSAN KILLED
Shot to Death at Home of Fiance
Joplin Last Night.
Joplln, Mo., Dee. 19. Samuel
C.
Davis of Tulsa, Okla., a wealthy deal
er in Indian lands, was shot and kill
ed last night at the home of Mrs.
Daisy Carter, a divorcee, to whom he
was to have been muni
mam
day. The assassin held
her mother and a maid al
pistol, and escaped after shooting
Davis.
YESTERDAY THE STOCKHOLDERS
ACCEPTED THE PLANS AND
WILL ASK FOR BIDS EXCAVA
TION TO BEGIN AT ONCE.
Work on the new hotel Is to begin
immediately. The plans submitted by
Wight & Wight, architects of Kansas
City, were accepted and approved by
tiie stockholders yesterday, and an ex
ecutive committee composed of ("has. I
von Weise, J. R. Sharp and Hugh
Sturm was appointed to proceed w ith
the construction or the hotel. No time
HE UN .
WORK ON NEW
H0TEES01
is to be lost, and bids are to be ad-jreceived by the Americans without
vertised for at once and the contract comment. An adjournment until la
let. Bids for excavation will be asked .ter in the day was taken, wTTrm ii is
at once. expected the details of his written
The committee was authorized In message from Mexico will be discuss-
let the contract for t lie hotel to have
I five stories with the provision In the
amount up to one hundred thousand
dollars if tills was done. Rather thnnUiding for the withdrawal of the Am
lose another day, however, in actual I erlcans troops w ithin forty day-, and
work, the committee will go ahead !on condition that no new raids occur
with the liotel on the five story basis. 'in that part of the country now occu
Extra Session Possible. lis
Washington. Dec. IS. Although ,
President Wilson has received indi.
rert Information on efforts of tiie rail-j
roads and the brotherhoods' heads to ,
rrach an agreement, he plans to push '
his recommendation to congress, and
expects action at this session. j
Whether fin extra fession will be
called if t program is not com-
pleted dej., t.ds on the importance of
ar.y ran of the program not acted on.
.fs
.V'i.'.''',v''.. m-Jl-.,' ,
4 Z " f, 1 . it
Chfi-yCELl OK VON BETHM&HiS HOLLWEG
Theobald von Bethmann-IIollweg,
who announced, to neutral nations
and the Vatican Germany's w illing -
uess to open peace negotiations, i-i
chancellor of the German empire anil
thus holds the position first occupied
by ( he great. Bismarck. He is ex-
officio premier of the empire and re -
'i'"""'"" ' """
Misma'ck's depf ritlon by the pi es.
kaiser the office of chancellor has
fails ii am
L
RESERVATION BY THE UNITED
STATES OF RIGHT TO PURSUE
BANDITS IS THE STUMBLING
BLOCK.
Philadelphia. Dec. IS. 1 Deficit inn
it the close of the morning session of
the Mexican-American commission
were that General Carranza was m.
disposed to close the door against an
Agreement with the American repre
sentatives, who have been trying for
more than three months to solve jne-;-tions
at issue between Mexico and
tiie I'nlted Slates. When the com
mission reconvened today after1 a
three w eek
recess, Alberto J. rani,
Mexican commissioner, reported the
results of ills visit to Queretaro. The
report was made veroally and was
ed.
May Be Ratified.
The exact character of his report
was not revealed, but ft was learned
that, while Carranza bad not signed
the protocol drafted at Atlantic City,
this was not necessarily to be taken
as an indication that it would not be
ratified later, the signature perhap
belng that of Ambassador Designate
Arredondo, who is qualified and au
thnrized to sign such a document.
To the terms of the protocol pro-
'pied by General Pershing's column, it
T
believed Carranza has off red no.ther discussion, it was believed Car-
Insuperable objection.
Pursuit Clause Objected To.
It is known the declaration of Sec- j
retary Lane t'.iat the Americas gov-j
ernmer.t rt serving the right of unre-
s'.rieud pursuit of bandits hy Ann r !
lean troops wounded deeply the sen !
sibiiities r-f the official familv and it
is expected that this will dec'.op a
counter - proposal of the Mexican gov-,'
ernmenl. If the suggestion Is regard-
f
r.
lu en filled by Caprivl, 1 lolienlobc, Due -
low and Bethmann-IIollweg.
j The last named Is a Branclenburgev
by birth anil was educated in the law.
Vniei ing the civil service of the Ger-
niau government In 1ST9. He held a-
rieus offices before becoming Prits-
isian nrnlster of the Interior in l!iu,Y
e'-""'
ftiil). Ho
Nov. 2'J.
THE ARDMORE ICE, LIGHT AND
POWER COMPANY IS REPORT-
LlIfiEIS
iSt
ED ON THE VERGE OF CHANG- "alem, and tried to compel the Jews
ING HANDS. to worship it and abandon their own
: faith. This effort at forcing an alien
"" """" religion upon the Jewish people pro-
An air of mystery has surrounded voked a hitler revolt tn which the
a pending (leal wherein fm; Anlinorn Jews, led by the famous Judas Macca
Ice, Light and Power company was neus and Ids brothers, finally defeat
to change ownership and would be(ed the Syrian armies, re entered the
absorhi d by the Ardmore City Gas , temple and re dedicated It -s the cen
company, a Chicago concern, who ter of Jewish worship. In honor of
have recently taken charge of the this re-dedication, the feast of Chan-
local gas company. For some reason
fads uie hard lo obtain from those
vitally Interested nnil whether the
deal has been dosed or not is si ill a
inysiery.
Rumor has it Unit the lee. Light and
I'ower company recnrttly refused an
offer of f yttK.iinii for their holdings
ajid negotiations were resumed with
the result that the de il has been j
rinsed. The price was probably close
to the million dollar mark. ;As to the reason for this custom of, "rough Stone of Kansas City, Mo,
Til1? Ardmore Ice, Light nnd I'ow- kindling the lights, legend tells thatson Senator Stone of Missouri,
er company was owned by St. Louis 'when Judas Maecbeus nnd his victor- j has ,"'pn selected by President Wilson
and local parties and was reputed i,us army re dedicated the temple and , ,or nomination as Culled States cir
to be the best paying proposition in cleansed it of all the Impurities of cult Judge of the eighth circuit court,
the stale. The general manager, H. Idolatry, be found that there was only succeeding Judge Klmer Adams.
K. Foster has been with the firm enough pure oil to keep the perpetual .
since its foundation and through his light burning for one day, and It RETURNS TO TEXAS HOME
business ability has made the propo- would be long before new oil could
sitlon a big paying one. Mr. Foster ,e procured. But miraculously this haddeus Thomson, Retiring Minister
has nothing to say as to hih future 'ma!l amount of oil lasted for eight j to Colombia, Leaves for Texas,
plans, provided the deal goes through. 'days, and the perpetual nK),t was not' Washlngon. Dec. 19 Thaddeus A.
He will probably be retaine how -xtinulHlied. For this reason Ii was Thomson, retiring American minister
ever, by the new owners ns he is orjajnpj tnnt every year lights should ' Colombia, today closed up his bus
thoroughly convergent with every . kindled for eight days in every iness wit'i the slate department and
detail i.f the business and his plate iiml,.liold. It became customary for left for hi home in Texas. His reslg
wouhl be a hard one to fill. jt!l(. f Ht .t to be placed In the in- nation tiai offered several months ago
dows and the doorways, so that the owing to bis w lfe's health,
ed by the American member cf such streets of the cities be lighted up. I
'definite character ns to preclude
fur.
,:anza will not delay longer the rati
.Creation of Ihe protocol, and (hat the
ror.fert nces w ill be formally resumed
Ti. conference adjourm d late to
i - ay to nu et ic.lu tomorrow,
Supreme Court to Recess.
Wa-dilngton, Dec. IS. Tae holiJay
recess ( f the suprem" court from next
Friday to January S w as announced
today.
BRITISH HORSE SHIP RUSSIAN
SUNK IN THE MEDITERRANEAN
LAST WEEK.
11 HORSE TRANSPORT
All of the Americano Were Muleteers
Italian Steamship Palermo Was
Sunk Without Warning and Witliout
Attempting to Escape.
London, Doe. -So ciileen Amor
iean muleteers have been killed ami
eleven meinheis of the crew of the
British horse transport Itus.'-iau when
l he vessel was sunk In the .Mediier
r. me, ui in Direinlier II by a Gorman
Mibni.imie. Tiie ve ssel was returning
empty t'liini Alexandria. Kgypt. where
slie carried a cargo of horses from
N'ewport News. The names of the
Americans have not been ascertained.
Ninety-One Americans Aboard.
New York, Dec. 19. -V Ninety one
mericaus were aboard the Russian,
!sit -eight of them while cattlemen
inn! twenty two negroes. In addition
.there was a veterinary surgeon, Dr.
!.. K. Carpenter. The Russian was
formerly the Victoria ami was in ciiin
.iliand Captain James Dickinson, one
,of the oldest Leyland line masters.
1
I cnaniih Shin Sunk
J . .
I London, nee. ix. I lie Spanish
steamer Ason has been sunk, accord
ing to a Lloyd's report.
(
Sunk Without Warnina
ii.., i,., in i.-, i,i..
being
gathered by Ambassador l'age relative
to the torpedoing of the Kalian steal, i
bhip Palermo, which Indicates that
the ship was sunk wlihout warning
'and without having attempted to (i
i
1 cape.
Cliannukah Festival of Dedication.
The Keasl of Dedication (Channu
kali) commences ut Si.".lown Tins
day, December 19, and lasts for eight
days. It celebrates the tmncessful
ending of a war against religious ty
ranny, therefore Is religious liberty.
In the year f2 before the present
era, the Syrian king, Antiochus Hpl-
, phanes, set up a statue or a pagan
ll"lty In the Jewish Temple of Jeru-
nukah (dedication) was established,
Its eight days to be holidays, days of
song and thanksgiving.
The holiday Is marked by special
prayers oi maims anil psaiins in praise
inserted Into the dally ritual, and by
the kindling of the Channukali lights,
The usual custom Is lo light one light
on the first day, two on the second,
three on the third, and so on. adding
one each successive day of the feast.
Thus the feast ca:i
to be known as
Ihe Feast of L'ghts
The Jewish date for the beginning
of (his feast Is the twenty fifth of tiie i -
month of Ki.-lv. According to oi.n
tradition, the reason that Judas se
lected this date Is hcra'tue It f. !1 ex
actly tbren yearn after Antiochus had
defiled t lie temple; acrordir.g to an
oil.er tradition it is because that
also the day when th I.-ra lites, after
I eing delivered from Keypt. completed n
,C.e Taberratle In tte wilj-rn s.
BEFORE PEACE NEGOTIATIONS,
ALLIES MUST KNOW GERMANY
WILL ACCEDE TO DEMANDS.
POLICY IS OUTLINED
Lleyd George's Appearance Before the
House of Commons Was Made Under
Circumstances Seldom Faced by New
Holder of the Office.
London, Dec. 19. Lloyd Ceorge said
in the house of commons today that it
was felt that the entente governments
should know before entering upon ne
gotiations of peace that Germany was
prepared to accede to the only term
whereon it was possible for peace to
be obtained and maintained in Europe.
Without reparation, peace would be
impossible, he said. The premier said
there were no proposals for peace.
To enter into proposals of which they
had no knowledge was to put their
heads into a noose with the rope end
in the hands of Germany, he said.
As much as they longed for it, the
Premier added, the Central Powers
note and the speech preceding it, af
forded small encouragement and hope
for honorable and lasting peace.
He said the allies would insist that
the only end of war must be a com
plete guarantee against Prussian
militarism distubring the peace of
Europe.
The formal reply of the allies will
be given in the course of a few days.
Lloyd George said "we will wait until
we hear what terms and guarantees
there are, surer than those which
Germany broke. In the meantime,
we'll put our trust in our unbroken
army."
First Appearance of Premier.
London, Dec. 19.--The firsl appear
nine or Lloyd George before the house
of commons as itl.ii premier was
made under circumstances, seldom. If
ever, laced by a new bolder of the
office. L'ven if the peace proposal of
the central powers had not intervened
his statement or the policy or the gov
ernment, chosen as a result or the
public demand for n more vigorous
prosecution of the war, would have
marked an Important step In the
world's conflict.
No Basis for Negotiations.
Rome, Kec. 19." There is no sign
or conditions or basis for negotiations
in the enemy's note," said Foreign
Minister Sounino In the chamber of
deputies today. In speaking relative
lo the central powers' peace proposal.
Comment of Bernstorff.
Washington, Dec. 19. Comment Ing
on Lloyd George's speech In the house
, of commons. Count Bernstorff, t ho
German ambassador, said; .'That
sounds as if they imliint refuse to
.talk about, ,eaee, anyway.
STONE'S SON APPOINTED
Son i f Missouri Senator Appointed to
Federal Judgeship.
Washington, Dec. 19. -Judge Kim.
8 L
visitor
Allx-rson
n Ardmoie
was a business
today from Iter-
w.vn.
nanonanttacnannait
SI
t:
u
n
WEATHER FORECAST.
N' v. Orleans, La, Dec. 19.
Tie weather fonca-t for
Ok!a'e;nj for tonight Is In
creasing ioiid.l.ess; WVdacs
liav Ul.si tiled.
::
naunnSttUSaasata
