MONROE CITY DEMOCRAT
ISSUED EVERY TUESDAY. THURSDAY, AND SATURDAY
Volume XXIX.
Monroe City, Mo., Tuesday, December 19, 1916.
Number 37b
try
...Phone Your News To The Democrat...
v 4
Only Five More Days
Don't Forget We Are Headquarters for
CHRISTMAS GOODS
We have the largest and best line of DOLLS
in Monroe County ranging in price from
15c to $5.00
Make your selections early as our line of Holiday Goods
are going fast.
Yours for business,
Woodson & Jackson
"WE PLEASE"
New Arrival. Mr. and Mrs. Pnul Cox, of Shel-I
Bradley Alfred Odea is the name bina, attended the funeral of
ot a 6on which arrived at the home j Thomas Proctor Sunday j
of Mr. and Mrs. Ray Jett at Denver, j
Colorado. Tuesday. December IZ ! We can do ynur overhauling job
! now better and cheaper than we;
Mr. and Mrs R. V. Graham and', can in the sprint; ns we will he
children und Miss Isabelle Skeltnn ' rushed then. Bring us your work
Furnished Rooms Wanted.
Young couple want furnished
rooms for light housekeeping.
Phone Democrat Office
siient Saturday in Quincy.
Monroe City Auto Co.
There is undeniable satisfaction in knowing that
your gifts chosen from these incomparable collect
ions will be appreciated and remembered long
after Christmas has been forgotten.
What more sincere way is there to express your
Yuletide sentiments than by giving a magnificent
diamond, aside from its beauty and brilliancy the
most moderate prices prevail.
Ladies' dainty bracelet watches, attractive assort
ment When in need of anything in this line it will pay
you to compare our goods with those of others before
buying.
WALKER'S
WEATHER FORECAST.
' The United States Weather Fore
j cast by Wireless, given by Bert
i Emerson at Noon on Press Day.
Fnir to night and Tuesday except
probably unsettled in north portion
Tuesday. Colder in south portion
to-night with rising temperature
Tuesday.
I
j ; " ' . ,
t
Bring your car in now and have
that over hauling and cleaning up
done now dont wait until spring
when you want to use your car
Monroe City Auto Co.
Market Report.
For day before date of paper
Hgs $8.5(1
Sheep $5 00
Lambs $8.00
Cale $6.00
Cfeam 36c
Poultry.
Hens
Spring chickens 1 1-2 to
2 1-2 pounds
Old Roosters
Ducks
Turkey Hens
Young Toms
Toms..
Guineas, each
Geese.
Eggs straight
Butter. .'.
Green Hides. 20c
Wheat No. 2 1,79
OaU- ... so.
New Baled flay $8.00 to 10.00
15c
15c
09c
12c
2!!c
22c
18c
17k j
Ilk;
38c!
25c1
DR. THOMAS J. PROCTOR
Monroe Loses One of its Most Valuable and Highly
Esteemed Citizens Friday. Funeral Service was
Conducted Sunday Afternoon at 2:30 at the First
Baptist Church by Rev. S. P. Gott.
Dr Thomas Proctor, the second old-st rei lcn; of this city and
one of the wealthiest men in this par! of the state, died at bis
home in this city. Friday afternoon at 4 .)!) o'clock after un illness
confining him to his bed for the last three wei ks
He had started to his ranch in Tex is. wh-11 lie received the
news of the death of his nephew J. M Proctor, this w;is a terrible
shock to him and his condition became so serious that his son
Frank had to go and accompany him to his home in this city.
The seat of his trouble was in his throat, for four years he hail
not taken any solid food. He had Icon very talkative all diiy and
conscious till the last, ab ut five minutes before he died his son
Frank had raised him up and given him a drink of water He
passed away peacefully and without a struggle, surrounded by
his wife and other membersof his (amiiy,
Thomas Proctor, the sonol Mr. and Mrs Columbus proctor wot
born on May 2R, 1839 on a farm iieor rMiiiudi Iphia, Missouri.
From his birth place he moved to Withers Miils and from there
came to Monroe City, where he pr-i'-ticed me li. me, having as his
partner Dr. Bailey, his father-in-law in April 1865 he was
married to Miss Tra Lucia Bailey, and t 1 tl.em tiv,- children were
born four sons and one daughter, the d luuhier dying in infancy.
He served in the Civil War as a cnnfc tonic soldier i.nd poss
essed a cross of honor presented by the Cuited 1; r.ighter of Con
federacy of this City.
For years he has been President of '!:e Monroe Ciy Bank, he
is also a director in the Hannibal Trust Cooriohy und is Irc-a-deut
of the Cattle Company, an orj .miin .11 ,,f , ,it.. Crowes In
Texas. Dr. Proctor received his i d iru'io; vi p .Imvra ana Km
Kuk. Iowa, &nd was a classmate id Hr .1 ,'1,1 Bell, of near ihis
City When very young he unite.) :th 'he l!anti-,t Church and
was very prominent in the worn i u I'n.ir.-h.
He leaves to mourn his departure his widow, four sons. Trunk
Bailey and Jamie Proctor of this city in 1 l)v Tlumas Praetor of
Sturgeon Bay, Wis a brother li M. Proctor of this Cliy, hut who
was in Hazel), Arkansas at the time of Ivs brothers death.
We feel that no better tribute r 1:1 lie fad 10 this man than
will be found in the following speech delivered bv S'li. Robl Mr
Clintic at the funeral Sunday afiern "in
We come this afternoon to p 11 r. ''!'- . !' r. i-, the
memory of u departed friend
Day after day we are reminded t it 11 ilieniil-t of lif- we
ore in death."
Day by day we meet our friends and associates uiviitu too little
thought of a time when they or e -!i id he called to Hie tire.it
Beyond. We experience a casual 111 e.-iing willi one friend uud
enjoy an extended visit with an .ill. i. We perhaps feel a slight
indifference to some acquaintance while re riin.; a growing at
tachment for another. Weob-eiveaii.iitiniril.il' Hail in some
person, we find him companion able and congenial and through
association a firm and lasting fricnd-aip is funned. Mure often
do we see these ties between those of compai atively the s. mil
age where more readily may be found a community ot inlere-is,
of pleasures, of desires, and of experiences et not infregueiHly
do we find these closer relations exisiimj not withstanding a dis
parity of ages. The youth delighted with these reminiscences of
a venerable friend while '.he latter reveals in the amusements 01
a boy companion.
Wherever this friendship may be found we often make the most
of the present yet thinking little of the future of a lime when
this earthly friendship must be severed leaving to the bereft
survivors only a memory recalled perhaps every day or many
times a day and yet only a memory. For no more may we grasp
the glad hand or hear the familiar voice of the friend who has
ne before.
Today our City and community are in sadness and in sorrow
Two days ago saw the breaking of many a friendly tie. One who
for years has meant so much to us all and more to many, has
censed a life of activity, serving friendships of various durations
and leaving only the pleasing memory of friendship and the
inspiration of that well-spent life.
Dr. Proctor had resided in this City longer than the vast
majority of this concourse of friends who today do homage to
bis memory.
Probably very fewtiere remember his coming while all the
rest will recall be was one of the first men we learned to recog
nize as a leader and a great factor in the community. His in
fluence wm so fat reaching, bis standing so favorably and gener
ally known that not infrequently the new comer had been direct
ed to him for information or counsel His real value to the City
has always been acknowledged and as time goes on will b
universally conceded, J
He was a factor in the business, tbe social, the educational
and tbe religious welfare of his adopted town.
(Continued on Page Four)
v ;
