VOL. XX NO. 235
'TIEPARATION" IS
DEMANDED BY
ENTENTE SIDE
Premier Lloyd -George Declared That
Without It Peace Would be Impos
sible He Also Said That There Were
No Proposals, for Peace With Ger-many
HE DOES NOT PROPOSE
TO PUT HEAD IN NOOSE
Allies Will Insist That the Only End of
the War Must Be Complete Guarantee
Against Prussian Militarism Disturb
ing the Peace of Europe
London, Doc. lO.-J'remier Lloyd-George said in the Ifouse of
Commons to-day that it was felt they should know before entenng
on negotiations that Germany was prepared to accede to only
terms whereupon it was possible for peace to be obtained and
maintained in Europe. The premier said that without reparation
peace would be impossible.
Lloyd-George said that there were no proposals for peace, lo
enter into proposals of which they had no knowledge was to put
their heads into a noose, with the end of the rope in the hands of
Germany. Much as they longed for it, the premier added, the cen
tral powers' note and the speech preceding it afforded small hope
for an honorable and lasting peace.
The speaker said: "Our answer will be given in full accord with
our allies. Each of the allies has separately and independently
arrived at the same conclusion. I am glad of the first answer given
by France and Russia." ,
Premier George said the allies would insist that the only end of
the war must be a complete guarantee against Prussian militarism
disturbing the peace of Europe. The formal reply of the allies, the
premier announced, will be given in the course of a few days.
BOSTON IS VOTING
ON LIQUOR QUESTION
An Unusually Heavy Vote is Expected to
Be Polled Four Other Cities
Holding Election.
Boston, Dec. 19 The last of this year's
elections was held to-day in Boston,;
Fitchburg, North Adams, Feabody and j
Quincy. In this city the license ques
tion is expected to bring out an unusual-1
ly heavy vote. The election in reaDoay
is the first under the city form of gov
ernment. There and in the other cities
license is the leading issue.
105,527 CARS SHORT.
On December 1, According to Report by
American Railway Association.
New York, Dec. 19 There was a short
age of 105,527 freight cars throughout
the country on December 1, according to
a report made public here last night by
the American Railway association.
rA On August 1, the statement asserts,
there was an actual net surplus of 9,
562 idle cars, while in 1008 there was
at one time a surplusage of over 413,
000 cars and at no time during the year
' -were there less than 100,000 idle cars.
"In January, 1912, there was a net sur
plusage of approximately 136,000," the
reMrt says. "From November, 1913, un
til March, 1910, there was a continuous
surplusage of cars, the number running
in October, 1914, to over 200,000 when
the figures became so large that the
American Railway association stopped
compiling them. Compilation was re
sumed on February 1, 1915. wljen idle
cars still numbered over 279',0O0.
"The number of freight cars owned by
the railroads of the country increased
from 1,991.557 on July 1, 1907, to 2,518,
855 on July 1, last."
MISS LAW GETS $2,500.
Because of Her Flight from Chicago to
New York.
New York, Dec. 19. For setting a new
record in her flight from Chicago to New
York Miss Ruth B. Law last night re
ceived a gift of $2500 at a dinner given
in her honor here by the Civic Forum and
the Aero Club of America. Rear Ad
miral Robert E. Peary. Capt. Ronald
Amundsen, the explorer, ami many army
and navy officers and aeronautical men
were among those present at the dinner.
Announeeraeiit of a gift of $10,000 by
the Chamber of Commerce of Erie, Ta..
to be expended by the Aero Club ofAmer-i.-a
in a proponed trans-continental air
plane content was made by F. E. Diilen
of Erie.
Spanish: Steamer Sunk.
Ini.l'in. Dec. 19. Lloyds announces
that the Spanish t earner A son has been
GRANITEVILLE.
Quarry Workers Notice.
Regular meeting of branch No, 12. Q.
W. I. C of N. A, will be held in Miles'
hall Thuraday evening. Dec. 21, at 7
ol.k. Balloting for international un
ion president aud auditor. As many aa
can be present. Per order of secretary.
THE
MALPRACTICE CHARGED.
Dr. George W. Bolton Being Tried at St.
Johnsbury.
St. Johnsbury, Dec. 19. The case of
State against Dr. George W. Bolton of
West Burke was taken up yesterday in
Caledonia county court. Malpractice is
charged, the patient having been Miss
Annie Gunderson, 18 years old. Dr. Bol
ton is defended by Alexander Dunett,
and State's Attorney M. A. Norton of
Lvndonville is assisted in the prosecu
tion by Attorney James E. Campbell of
this town. It is expected Uiai tne trim
will occupy several days.
(ieorge V. Bolton has been a resident
of West Burke between 15 and 20 years,
and has done a little gardening when
not practicing medicine as the opportu
nity offered. It i said that he hag some
knowledge of medicine, but as far as is
known bus no diploma in any state, and
has never passed tne ermont state
board examination.
A few vears aeo a law was passed in
the state requiring all the doctors who
were not legally registered in this state
to pass examination before the state
board. At that time it was said that
Bolton wa practicing to some extent,
but when the law waa enforced never
registered, but continued practicing as
ouietlv as possible with such case as
came to him. The authorities at differ
ent times have tried to convict him and
at one time he waa sentenced to pay a
fine in Kssex county court.
Miss Gunnison in her testimony yes
terday gave her h6me as Bridgeport,
Conn., and said she came to Vermont to
keep the knowledge of hir condition from
her parents.
BILLY SUNDAY PRAISED.
St. Albans Ministerial Assosiation Com
mends Him.
St. Albans, Dec. 19. At a meeting of
the St. Albans Ministerial association
held at the Congregational church yester
day, Rev. J. Wesley Raiter, pastor of
the Baptist church, Rev. F. A. Wood
worth of the Methodist church at Swan
ton, and Rev. C. O. Dunham, pastor of
the Baptist church at Georgia Plains,
all of whom had attended the Billy Sun
day meetings at Boston, spoke on their
impressions of the evangelist. They
commended his work highly and were
unanimously in referring to his evident
sincerity.
UP FOR CONFIRMATION. .
Several Vermont Postmasters' Names
Sent to Senate.
Washington", D. C Dec. 19 The Sen
ate yesterday received the following
nominations for postmasters: Vermont
Alln-rt B. Robert. Dorset: Antonio Bo
nazzi. Plaintield; W. Ralph Whitney.
Franklin; Riley W. Densmore, West
Burke.
HELD IN $10,00 EACH.
Jamea J. Guilfoy and James F. Sullivaa
Plead Not Guilty.
Manchester, N. II., Dee. 19. James J.
Guilfoy and James F. Sullivan of the
firm f Guilfoy 4 Sullivan, stock and
grain brokers, alleged embezzler of the
funds of their clients in a sum which,
it U said, will not fall short of ttO.mw,
ere arraigned in th municipal court
yesterday, charged with embezzlement
on four counts each, and were belj ia
?iiO oa each complaint until Jan. 6.
BARM DAILY TIMES
BARRE, VERMONT, TUESDAY, DECEMBER 19, 1910.
LESS CAPTIVES
INRUMANIA
But Berlin Reports the Tak
ing of More Than 1,000
Prisoners
D0BRUDJA DRIVE
IS STILL KEPT UP
Russians and Rumanians
Are Reported as Re
treating less. Dec. 19. The car
ture of more than 1,000 Russians and
Rumanians on the Rumanian front was
a nnoiini1 ed in to-dav's headquarters'
statement. The Russians and Rumani
an! in Dobrudia are continuing their
retreat and are approaching the lower
Danube.
French troops yesterday undertook an
advance in the neighborhood of Rheims,
the statement says, but were repulsed by
German fire.
NO PERMANENT
GAIN SECURED
BY GERMANS
They Made Thrust at Sailly-Saillisel
Last Night Artillery is Active
On the Verdun Front.
Paris, Dec. 19. A raid was undertaken
by the Germans last night on the Somme
front, north of Sailly-Saillisel, but the
war office announcement says it was
without permanent success.
On the Verdun front, active artillery
fighting occurred in the regions of Louve
mvnt and Chambrettes.
The official report regarding the Mac
edonian front says there were no impor
tant occurrences yesterday.
The official bulletin last night was as
follows:
"South of the Somme there was pro
nounced activity of the two artilleries in
the sector of La' Maisonette. At 4 o'clock
this morning an enemy detachment which
attempted to carry out a surprise at
tack against cur trenches south of Fresnes
was repulsed by grenades.
"On the right bank of the Meuse our
troops in a spirited engagement drove
the enemy from the Chambrettes farm,
which we occupy anew in its entirety.
We took two machine guns.
' Intermittent cannonading occurred on
the rest of the front. An enemy aviator
dropped five bomb on Vieux Thabo; no
danmge was done."
17 AMERICANS
AMONG TIIE LOST
British Horse Transport Ship Russia
Was Sunk By Submarine in the
Mediterranean Sea, 'According
to British Admiralty. "
London, Dec. 19. Seventeen American
millet eprtt. have been killed and 11 of the
crew of the British horse transport ship
Russia, which was sunk; Dy a suomarine
in the Mediterranean on December 14.
The British admiralty make this an
nouncement as follows:
"The empty west bound British horse
transport ship Russia, was gunk by a
submarine in the Mediterranean on the
14th. Eleven of the crew were killed, in
cluding the chief officer, the first officer
and the second officer, also 17 American
muleteers were killed. Their names have
been communicated fo the American con
sul." .
The transport Russia referred to is
probablv the British steamer of that
name, which sailed from Newport News
November Hi for Alexandria, Egypt,
which would be about due to return.
Her net tonnage was 5,753.
FRENCH LOSSES 3,800,000.
According to Statement Coming from a
German Source.
Berlin, Dec, 19, by wireless to Say
ville. The losses of the French army
to date have been 3,800,000 and of tho
British 1,300,000, according to "compe
tent military authority," says an Over
seas News agency statement jninu..
On the same authority the French
losses on the Somme up to the end of
November are estimated at not less than
250,000 and those of the British at 550,
000. .
The statement says:
"The total French losses since the be
ginning of the war have been 3,800.000
and the British losses 1,300,000, or alto
gether 5.100,000. These figures are baaed
on most reliable data. They do not in
clude the losses of the colored troops oi
both the French and the British armies
but as these colored auxiliary troops are
alwavs used as much as possible in great
. .. . . l j tj-:;uIi
attacks, tne total oi rrencn mm j" .
losses probably is several hundred thous
and more.
"In the engagement on the Somme
since July 1, 140 French and British di
vi.inn. liav heen emoloved. These were
drawn from all parts of the front from
the ocean to Switzerland
of these divisions after short rests, re
turned twice or even three or four times
to the front.
"The French losses on the Somme up
to the end of Novrmber are estimated as
at least .250.01 N) and the British at 550.
OOO men. Thus the -total of French and
British looses on the Somme are con
servator estimated as at least iSKl.OOO
men. They therefore exceed considera
bly the German losses a estimated by
-" .....;. at fl-WOOO men. As
ut i iii.ii, a rut i " -
a matter of fact, the German losses were
much l.-s. than SOO.Oon. At the same
time it must 1 taken into consideration
that about 7 peT 0,1,1 pf "U th
man wounded, after a cliort time, are
able to return to the front, thank to
the excellent medical care they receive
and the high standing of German sur-pery."
MELLEN WOULD
SELL ST. J. & L. C.
II. It. FOR $1.00
Former Head of New Haven and Boston
& Maine Railroads Thought $H0,
000 Notes Were. Hardly
Worth tho Paper.
Boston, Deo. 19. Charles S. Mcllen,
former president of the New Haven and
Boston A. Maine railroads, was a witn
to-day in federal court on e question of
making permanent the present tem
porary receivership of the Boston A.
Maine railroad. He was called aa a wit
ness by counsel for tho minority stock
holders oposiiig the receivership.
Asked by counsel for the minority as
to his opinion of $940,000 worth of St.
Johnsburv ft Lke Champlain railroad
note held by the Boston ft Maine, Mr.
Mcllen said: "I'd take a dollar for the
whole bunch."
The Fitchburg railroad, of which the
Boston & Maine holds 55,000 shares, he
declared aa not an asset available for any
financial purpose when tho Boston ft
Maine assented to a receiverenip i
Igust. The securities of the St. Johns
bury ft Lake Champlain road, quoiea i
$4,517 in tiie lust annual re pun, no !
praised at minus one dollar a share.
Regarding the Concord ft Claremont
railroa d shares held, he said: "If I owned
the Boston ft Maine I would not sell that
stock at $1,000" a share." He explained
the stock had a "nuisance value."
PORTLAND BARS CLOSED.
They Have Been Operating More or Less
Openly for Two Years.
Portland, Me., Dee. 19. Portland's 40
or 50 barrooms which have been operat
ing more or less openly for nearly two
vears, or sine William M. I'ennell, orig
inator of the state famous "Pennell
plan," eame into office, permanently
closed their doors last night.
Patrons of these places were not made
aware of the orders to close until with
in two hours of the regular closing time,
10 o'clock.
Both the sheriffs' department and the
police disclaim any eonnecUon with the
terminating of the business, and the
proprietors of the saloons say the word
to close operations came frome the
wholesalers.
Mavor Chapman late Jast evening re
fused" to make any statement whatso
ever, either to deny or confirm the re
to close owrations came from the whole
salers, t
Since the inauguration of Mayor Chap
man a year ago this month the control
of liquor traffic in Portland has been con
fused. His -election came a year after
sheriff Pennell took office and up to the
time Mr. Chapman became the city's
chief executive the business was being
controlled by the sheriff; but upon his
advent to office Mayor Chapman took
an active hand in the control of the busi
ness und while the bars were not closed
they operated upon a root moderate
plan. Their front doors were closed, the
business diverted to side doors or back
doors, free lunches were dispensed with
and bartenders were not allowed to wear
white coats and aprons. In fact the sa
loons became blind tigers in the. accept
ed sense.
King F. Graham, of the ramrod type of
prohibitionist, takes office as sheriff at
midnight on the 31st of this month, and
patrons of the barrooms were planning
to prepare for the drought that is ex
pected will follow, during the days be
tween now and that date. Yesterday's
1 1.. ;n limior traffic was tho
best that it has been on a Monday for
many years.
ROLL OF $85 MISSING.
Middlebury Man Came to Grief in Bur
lington. Burlington, Dec. 19. James Coleman
of Middleburv, who came to this city
last Saturday with the intention ot
spending the holidays here, woke up yes
terday w ith a big head and minus his big
roll. He notified the police of his loss
j ... a ,ilt. of his storv Peter Mer-
cier was arrested, rharged with the theft.
When Coleman arrived in town he se
cured a room at 119 Pearl street. Sun
,.ir, h started out in search of
a drink and on the street he met Peter
Mercier.'a well known local cnaracicr.
The latter, on learning of his desire, vol
unteered to lead him to a drink. This
was found at the home of a Mrs. La-
fur . . u
According to Coleman's story they ob-
4;.j . nf whiskey, one drink of
which put him out of commission. He
i stated that when he came to yesterday
j morning at his rooming nouse iub
of $N5 was missing.
Mercier admitted taking Coleman to
the Latour home but denied the theft
of the money. He stated that they had
several drinks and that when Coleman
got helplessly drunk he was taken home
in a hack.
APPEAL FROM PROBATE.
Causes Suit to Be Entered Against John
W. McDonald Estate.
The case of I. W. Bates et al vs. the
estate of John W. McDonald, late of
Barre City. Donald W. McDonald, exec
utor, and James Mackay, administrator,
was entered to-day in county court, be
ing an appeal from probate commission
ers. Mr. Bates, Fannie A. Cooney and
George U Bates presented a claim of
$395 for consideration by the commis
sioners of the McDonald estate, the claim,
which was for lease rents, being disal
lowed, resulting in the suit being filed.
Karl K, 1'aVlS IS Uliomrj nv .......
. : IT .
una.
PLUNGED ACROSS STREET.
Trolley Car Tipped Over Neat Fitchburg,
Mass.
Fitchburg, Ma, Dec. 19. An electric
car containing eight persons, inward
bound from 1-eominster. Jumped a ciirte
'at the loot of the South street hill last
'night, plunged across the street, struck a
pile of lumber and lipped over wnnin
15 feet of a deep gully.
Three of the passengers. Miss Hilda
Slipola and a Miss Lunt of this city, and
Mi-s Lillian Brown of Leominster, were
severely cut and bruised. The other pas
sengers escaped with minor injuries.
ITALY FEELS
SUSPICIOUS
Does Not Think Germany's
Proposal Is Based
on Sincerity
"WE ALL WISH PEACE,"
DECLARES S0NNINA
But It Must Be Based on
Postulates of Civ
ilization Rome, Dec. IS, via Paris, Dec. 19. For
eign Minister Sonnia said in the Chamber
of Deputies to-day, discussing the Ger
man peace proposals: "We all wish
peace and lasting peace. But we con
sider lasting peace to be a careful set
tlement, whose duration depends not on
the solidarity of the fetters with which
one people is held subject to another,
but one exact balance among the states,
based on respect for the prilicipal nation
alities rule, laid down in the laws of the
nations and by reason of humanity and
civilization.
"If we were in the presence of genu
ine proposals with bases of a nature to
satisfy tho general postulates of civili
zation and justice, which I have men
tioned, none would reject them abrupt
ly; but there is nothing to show even
faintly that that is the case and there
are many reasons for believing the con
trary. I do not desire to use exaggerat
ing language but the accent of boast
fulness and lack of sincerity which char
acterizes the preamble to the enemy's
note certainly inspires no belief and the
mysterious peace conditions which the
central powers announce they have the
intentionW exposing later do not con
stitute an answer to the. postulates we
have laid down."
PROTOCOL NOT SIGNED.
Comes Back From Carranza as Unsatis
factory Document.
Philadelphia, Dee. 19. Gen. Carran.a's
representatives on the Mexican-American
joint commission admif'd yesterday to
the American membersfjiat the protocol
signed three weeks ago at Atlantic City
had not been ratified. They supplement
ed that admission, however, with a dec
laration of the attitude of the Carranza
government and assured the Americans
that the delay in ratification did not sig
nify the rejection pf the agreement which
they had signed after almost three
months of consideration.
The exact character of the communi
cation from the Mexicans was not made
public but it was evident at the close of
the conference that both Americans and
Mexicans regarded as probable the offi
cial sanction of the protocol and the re
sumption of the sessions at which it has
been planned to discuss qestions at issue
between the governments of the United
States and Mexico,
Two sessions were held and late yes
terday when the commission adjourned
it was announced that another meeting
would be held to-day. Unless a break in
the conference, now unexpected, occurs, it
was believed last night that the sessions
might be continued until near the end of
the week, when an adjournment would be
taken until after New Year's day.
Why Carransa Refused.
It was indicated that Carranza had
withheld ratification when the protocol
was submitted to him by Alberto J. Pani,
the commissioner who carried the docu
ment from Atlantic City to Queretaro,
not so much .because he found the terms
of the agreement impossible, as because
he felt that the declaration of the United
States government's attitude made by
Secretary of the Interior Lane aa chair
man of th commission, made it incon
sistent for him to accept it without in
turn defining the position of his govern
ment. Secretary Lane had placed before
the Mexican commissioners a supplemen
tal statement in which he had clearly
indicated that the American government
was determined to witness an improve
ment in conditions in Mexico and that if
it became necessary American troops
would be sent acrosa the border in pur
suit of bandits and that no restrictions
as to how far the pursuit would be car
ried would be tolerated.
Although it was not included in the
protocol. Carranza interpreted Secretary
Lane's etatement as vitally connected
with the agreement and has protested
against the pursuance of such a policy by
the United States. To the conditions
named in the protocol for the withdrawal
of American troops now in Chihuahua
under Gen. Pershing, it is understood he
made no serious objection. The terms
for their withdrawal are that they shall
be taken out within 40 days after ratifi
cation of the protocol, if in that time
bandits have not altered conditions in
that part of the country so materially
that the peace of the border would tie
menaced, and that Carranza would garri
son the territory as the Americans are
withdrawn.
Carranza signed no communication to
the commission, but authorized Mr. Pani
to draft and to submit the statement in
tended as a counter declaration of pol
icy. It was learned that the Mexican
commissioners were empowered to use
their judgment in phrasing the document
and that they were urged by Carranza
not to cause a break with the Americans
if it could be avoided.
TRACK TIED UP.
When Cars Were Derailed Near Brattle
tleboro Yesterday Afternoon.
Brattleboro, Dec. 19. When the en
gine and mail car on the 4:23 south
land Boston and Main train jumped
the track at the cross over south of the
station yesterday afternoon, traffic wis
effectually tied up. At 6 o'clock a wreck
ing crew had made sufficient progress
to permit passenger coaches to be sent
around the derailed engine and car, and
at H:30 last night the mail car had been
r.,lae.l ..n the iron and was sent aouth
cm the 8:30 train. " one wa injured.
14 LEFT DESTITUTE.
By Two Men Being Sentenced to the
House of Correction.
Sentence, ranging from a minimum of
n i.... ....(....in of five ami
months were imposed by Magistrate 11. w .
Scott, in city court iaie j m. ,
noon, when Charles Young and John La-
forrvHt appeared at tne insiunc-
htatv's attorney. Previously the two
edued crund larceny
lil II HB'l r.. r
offenses tivolving the charge that they
stole 2tl chickens trom lo-orge .... j
farm at the south end of V"nd
Dec. 7. Young, by reason of the fact
that he confessed to having forced the
chicken coon, re
ceived the longest maximum, six months
r - . . A I . . t.. ...1
in the house of correction at minuim.
Kxamination of the records at city court
.Hal loaed Mm information that Young a
conviction yesterday waa the ninth in a
comparatively short term of years. La-
forrcst. who reeeivgd a maximum oi uf
moll tlm in the Rutland institution, has a
court record in Northfleld. according to
inquiries mnde by tne auiiiorivies.
v minor am I Laforrest were packed off
to the county jail last night and will be
transferred to Kutlanrt witiiin a ie
tova liv reason of their departure, it is
said, two mothers and 12 children are
left destitute, unless provision lor llieir
maintenance is made by the charity de
partment. OLD G.C.I. A. OFFICERS
WERE RE-ELECTED
Henry Alexander Chosen President of
Barre Branch at Semi-Annual
Meeting Last Evening.
Officers for the ensuing six months
were elected at the meeting of the gran
ite cutters' association in the opera liouse
last evening. The meeting of the Barre
local was fairly well attended, and the
business in hand was conducted with
dispatch. The officers who have served in
the past six months were re-elected as
follows: President, Henry Alexander;
vice-president. John Geals; corresponding
secretary, Joseph D. Will; financial sec
retary. James Smart; treasurer, William
McDonald; auditors, Alexander Ironside,
Alfred Milne: adjustment committee,
John Geals, Henry Alexander, Andrew
Mitchell; trustees of the local fund.
James Gall and Paul llinnchi.
Routine business was transacted, and
before adjournment some aspects of the
.., ?A--..l. T
conference between ine granite ciinera
renreaenta fives and the manufacturers at
. , r. . .
the Quincy headquarters were discussed.
G. S. SENIORS IN EXHIBITION.
Doien of the Class Entertained a Large
Audience.
The senior exh ibition held at Goddard
hall last evening, when 12 members of
the graduing class gave their essays,
was well attended and proved to be a
aiiceessful entertainment. The work this
year was taken differently than it has
Wn in vears nast. as there are about 50
in the graduating class and it would take
too much time for all to give tiieir com
positions before the public, so a commit
tee was appointed to listen to the essays,
which were recited on Nov. 20, 12 of the
most promising of the class being chosen
to give their work. All of the class did
exceptionally good work last evening.
The program is as follows: Duet for
two pianos. Miss Lease nnd Marjorie
Kent; "Submarine Signaling." Harold
Bancroft; dialogue, "A Scene in a Rural
School," June Martin; "Aviation of To
day." Henry Mowles; T-Development of
the Barre "Quarries." Elsie Pine; two
musical selections, "Twilight" and "Tho
Solar Monday," Helen Kingslamt; "It
Pays to Advertise," William Mcintosh;
story, "Uncle Ezra's First Baseball
Game," Evelvn Drew; "Saloons and
Their Effect," Verne Iougee; "Anguste
Rodin's Gift to France," Evelyn Coburn;
"With You" and "Down in Derry," songs
by James McXab: "The Mission of Me
chanical Music." Everett Wallis; story,
"The Deserter." Alice Jennings; "A Day
with My Rod," Albert Thompson; "The
Child's Appreciation of James Whitcoinb
Riley," Edith Bailey.
DEATH OF JOSEPH COLOMBO.
He Had Lived in Barre for Nearly Quar
ter of Century.
John Colombo, for nearly a quarter
century a resident of Barre and among
the earliest of his countrymen to come
to
li eitv Hied at his home. 21 Ellis-
ton street," this morning at 1:15 o'clock.
Death was due to asthma and heart dis
ease, with which the deceased had been
afflicted for more than a year. Mr. Co
lonibo was a granitecuttcr and previous
to his illness he was employed at the
plant of the Dewey Column & Cutting
Co. He leaves two daughters. Mrs. Jo
sephine Perantoni and Miss Teresa Co
lombo and two sons, Charles Colombo
and V. J. Colombo, all of whom reside
in Barre. His sister, Mrs. Theolinda
Calderara, lives in Biuchio. Italy, where
Mr. Colombo was born April 28, 18ti(l.
He came to America in the early '90s
soon after his marriage in Italy to Mis
Angela Bizzozzero. whose death occurred
in Barre Jan. 31. 1914. For a time after
emigrating to the United States Mr. Co
lombo resided in Milford, Mass., coming
to Barre in 1S93.
The funeral will be held at the house
Thursday afternoon at 2 o'clock and in
terment will lie made in the family lot
in Hope cemetery.
FOUND WIFE DEAD.
Mrs. Joseph Juneau Had Appeared Well
the Day Before.
St Johnsburv. Dec. 19. Joseph Ju
neau awakened" at 5 o'clock yesterday
morning to fn"' his wife dead lcide him.
Mrs. luneau attended church Sunday, en-tertaiiM-d
friends that evening, and re
tired in her usual health. At 4 o'clock
he awakened her husband and asked for
water. An hour later she was dead.
Heart trouble was the cause of death.
M.- Juneau im .Ml voi old. a native
of St. Johnsbury, the daughter of Mr.
J II IV. n I 1 : 1 1 1 r Tm-ntit v.kiv l.'lfl
ago she married Mr. .Iuih hii. 1-ive clnl- j
lren were born to them. Two are living, j
They are Mr. Joseph Nadeau and .Mi
i Beatrice Juneau of St. Johnhury. s,,e j
leaves also a sister in St. Johnsbury. j
Mrs. Albert IVrochers. a sixt.r in M-rt-j
real, and a brother in Portland, Me. Ku-)
m ral services w ill be held Thur-day
morning at 9 o'clock at Notre Hame
church.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
HOPEFUL YEAR
IN PROSPECT
Barre City Hosp s Out
look Is Ve'v'iCn
coura'y I
MUCH W' K DONE
DURING PAST YEAR
Total of 344 Patients Have
Been Treated Reports
at Annual Meeting
A record of progress for tho Barre City
hospital was read at the annual meeting
of the hospital association in the city,
court room last evening when the reports
of the oflieers were given, following
which the annual election was held. There
was a good attendance at the meeting
and much interest was shown in the re
counting of the various details of tho
hospital year. The reports included the
statements of the executive committee,
the treasurer and the superintendent.
From the statement of the executive
committee it was learned that 344 pa
tients have been cared for during tho
year and that the total number days'
treatment was 5,328, making the average
stay of each patient 14.(1 days. The
eavnings of the hospital increased about
2,0??, but the increased cost of every
thing that does into the conduct of a
hospital caused the expenses to exceed
the income. Acknowledgement is made
again of the receipt of the very liberal
gifts from Ira C. Calef as well as from
other sources.
The repori of the executive committee
to the trustees was as foUows:
"To the Trustees of the Barre City
Hospital:
"We beg to submit the following re
port of the operation of the hospital for
the year ending December 1, 1916.
"There has la-en a substantial increase
in the earnings of the institution for the
past year, as compared with the preced
ing vcar. Those totalled l 0.493.41, an
increase of about $2,000. While this was
considerable, the increased cost of every
thing that goes into the conduct of the
hospital foods, supplies, drugs, fuel, etc.
has more than kept pace, and with the
natural increase in the cost of maintain
ing the new plant over the old, the ex
penses for the year exceeded the income.
"The number of patients eared for dur
ing the year was 344. The total number
days' treatment was .1,328 and the aver
age stay of each patient in tho hospital
was 14.fi days. Of the total days' treat
ment 306 were charity work.
"Through the continued interest and
generosity of our noble benefactor. Mr.
Ira C. Calef of Washington, the Barre
Citv hospital mortgage indebtedness wa
reduced $10,000 and the endowment fund
increased bv $10,000 during the year.
"Other gifts to the hospital during the
year are a safe, which was much needed,
from Mr. George Gray of Aberdeen. Scot
land, and a skeleton for ue in the nurses'
training school from Dr. W. 1). Reid.
"The Ladies' Hospital Aid had contin
ued its active interest in the hospital and
has furnished quantities of much needed
supplies.
"The superintendent and nurses havo
raised and expended approximately $300
in repairs and furnishings for the nurses'
dormitory.
"Minor" contributions to the amount of
$160 from various sources and not re
corded elsewhere, have been received and
expended on the hospital since our last
report.
"The hospital plant represents an in
vestment of $100,000. On this there is a
debt of $2H.3."0 and the hospital has a
sinking fund of $21,000. The outlook for
the future is very bright for doing great
er good to suffering humanity.
"Respectfully submitted,
"M. L. Chandler,
"A. C. Moore,
"F. E. Langley."
Treasurer's Report.
The report of the treasurer, Dr. J. W.
Jackson, was as follows:
"Sources of Income."'
Cash on hand beginning of year $427.12
Received from matron and de
posited 10.493.41
John E. Smith fund
Calef endowment fund .' 677.50
Thanksgiving offering of
churches, 1915 and 1916 ... 12.51
Calef, gift 10.000.00
$21,550,
.74
Expenditures for the year
$21,554
65
"Building Fund."
Balance on hand Dec. 1, 1915 ..
Collected on building fund
$12.81
pledges
Short time loan
February 7. 1916
Received from sale of stove . . .
Received donation and deposit-
n.l tun 'XI 101H
665
5.000
7
10,
416
110
00
Of
60
Received donation and deposit
ed March 21. Jl
Received from Ladies' Aid and
deposited April II, 1916
01
.80
150.00
$6,353
$,3."1
1
.96
,97
,99
Disbursements by check
Balance
$653.96
Report of Superintendent.
The report of the superintendent, MUa
Fanny Pickup, from Dec, I, 1915, to Dee.
I, 1916. was as follows:
'"Number of patients in hospital Dec. 1,
IP15, 13; patients in hospital Dec. I,
l-'lit! 2i; admitted in hospital year 1915-
16. 344: male patients, 140, lemaie pa
tients 2"4; male surgical 81. female sur
gical MS; male medical 41, female medi
cal 35: obstetrical cases, 41; births,
male 1. f.tnales 26; discbarges from
hospital during year 337. well or im
proved 310, dad 27: maximum number
of patient any day 2", minimum number
(Continued on sixth page.)
