home s The Herald as tsl efvrd reuayt
theR mour i srulao vr YO oeasr orig
ptl toehr in the National : etlwl ~fd r hn M q
NO. 3619. WEATHER-AIL WASHINGTON. D. C.. THURSDAY, SPEBR14. 1916. ONE CENT.
HUGHES TO TOUR
DOUBTFUL ZONES
G. 0. P. Chief Will Leave Mon
day on Trip to Middle West.
(By the Interentimal New. Serviee.)
New York. Sept I.-Having annexed
Maine, Charles E. Hughes starts Mon
day next after the capture of thee
doubtful States: Illinois, Indiana, Wis.
consin, Ohio. and New York. Incidental
ly he will take a peep through Pitts
burgh smoke at Pennsylvania.
Frank H. Hitchock hurried West toda3
to make sure that the blunders of the
Pacific slope tour are not repeated
President Taft's former campaign man
ager will try to "Jack up" Western head
quarters and see to it that the Presi
dential candidate is greeted with large
and hurrahing crowds.
The decision to rush Mr. Hughes to
the Middle West was reached by the
Willcox board of strategy today after
Frank H. Hitchcock had frankly told
the candidate that he must arouse the
voters there.
The Itinerary was arranged at a
luncheon Chairman Willcox gave to Mr.
Hughes, Herbert Parsons. George W.
Perkins. Everett Colby. Oscar S. Straus.
Charles B. Warren, Alvah T. Martin,
and Henry D. Estabrook. members of
the campaign committee. Frank H.
Hitchcock. Senator Reed nmoot. and
Senator W. Murray Cfane. of the "old
guard," were not present.
Chairman Willcox at the conclusion of
the conference said: "Mr. Hughes Is
In fettle. ie is eager to take the stumi
again and we have planned another tour.
This time he goes to the Middle West
and returns to New York in time te
participate in the Saratoga conference
on September 48.
"The priposed tour has been called one
fo- the doubtful States" was suggested.
I d, not regard Illinois doubtful. We
are gong to crrv it by 1.y0. Indiana
is alway a hattleground. We are sure
'f %: iscons.n. and New York. But
Sr oN Pi E TWO.
HUGHES AT SUMMER
HOME FOR BRIEF REST
Will Prepare Middle West Speeches
While at Bridgehampton.
*By the international News Servie..)
Rridgehampton. N. Y.. Sept. M
Charles E. Hughes returned to Bridge
hampton tonight after an absence of
forty days. during which he made the
trians-continental tour and swept through
New England and brought back the vic
tnry in Maine as the first fruit of his
campaign efforts.
A "Detroit" salute of automobile horns
Tim a score of motors welcomed him
tn untmer headquarters. Mrs. Hughes
greeted hr hiord at the station. hav
ing pr.. ..1 him to Bridgehampton by
er' ral hours.
Tie RtetIblican r ,iaIta announced
tonight that he will r- .jve no visitors
and discuss .. politis during his stay
In R-Igehampton. wh:h will last only
until Monday morning, when he will de
tart on th, tour of the Middle West.
. minimum of work will be done,
mainlv i the way of preparing his
speeches for the new swing. Golf, mo
toring, a-d rest will occupy the remain
der of his time.
1,400 STRIKEBREAKERS
TO MAN SURFACE CARS
Effort Will Be Made Today to Restore
Normal Conditions.
OBy the Internatieal News Service.)
New York. Sept. 13.-Fourteen hundred
r strikehreakers are to man the surface
s of the New York Railways Com
pany tomorrow in an effort to restore
rerv:ce on this system to normal condi
tion. Six hundred of these strikebreakers
0 will take the cars from their barns at
the starting hour in the morning. Later
In th- day eight nundred additional
strikebreakers will he pressed into ser
Nlec, so that by nightfall it is hoped the
fill quota of "green cara" will be in
operation.
While there was a noticeable increase
In the numbe of surface cars in opera
t! 1 tod i. the riding public preferred
other methods of transportation.
creen car line had 52 cars in
operation at 6 o'clock; the Third Avenue
L . Sceond Avenue, 24; Vnion Rail
ways In the Bronx. 113.
As on previous days, however, every
<ar was in the barns by 7 p. n.
The elevated lines kept their trains
moving Al day, but many vexatious de
lavs ccurred at or between stations.
Ae, -rding to Interhorough offelals, there
vere 32 elevated trains operating.
Strikers and their sympathizers found
a new way to annoy train crews and pas
sen4ers as well. A group of these would
ascend to a station platform, and while
pretending to board a train, they would
h,-Il on the latform.
Present indieatiens point to a finish
fight. There were reports during the
dI, thqt Governor Whitman would be
appealed to to call a special session of
the legislature to pass legislation which
would give some one authority to order
the company to arbitrate its differences
with its striking employea.
PARKER WILL FIGHT HUGHES,
Moose Candidate to Stump Againsi
Repabiican Chief.
New Orleans. IA., Sept. 13-Bitterly
resentful over his fate at the hands 01
the Progressive party, Col. John M.
Parker. the Progressive Vice-Presiden
tIal candidate, will shortly take the
stump against Charles E. Hughes, Re
piublican nominee.
Col. Parker said today he would de
liver speeches In New York, Pennsyt
vanla, and OhIo.
BIETH CONTROL INDOESED.
Des Moines Physicians Say Prettfee
Would Leinea Crime,
Des Moines, Sept. 13.-Repressntativs
, De Moines physicians and heads ol
of the State board of control today went
on record in favor of birth control.
It was deolared that careful regulation
was necessary, but that the practice
would result In lesm crisme, disease, social
viesand. other ovile
Odds Huges 2 to 1;
Wilson Money Vaniska
BSaW to The Wa~boen. Bdahi.
New York, Sept. 1 Edward
McQuade, betting commissioner an
the Curb market, says that he
has WOO0 to place on Hughes at
odds of 2 to 1.
All the Wilson money that he
has held for weeks past at 1 to 2
has been withdrawn and there is
not a nickel of Wilson money in
sight. Needless to say no actual
bets have been made.
DEMOCRATS PLAN
CAMPAIGN DRIVE
Leaders to Confer on Scheme
to Quicken Activities.
(by the Iaternational News service.)
Asbury Park, N. J., Sept. 13.-A con
ference to be held here either tomorrow
or the next day between President Wil
son and his political managers is expect
ed to result in some detinite plan to stim
ulse the Democratic campaign.
Postmaster General Burleson, Secre
tary of the Treasury McAdoo, and pon
slbly Chairman McCormick, of the na
tional committee, will suggest ways and
i means to offset the effect of the Repub
lIcan victory In the Maine elections.
The Democratic leaders apparently
have reached the conclusion that some
thing must be done to prevent a drift to
the Republican party that would mear
defeat, unless promptly checked.
President Wilson returned to Shadow
Lawn late today from New London
Conn., where he spent two days at the
bedside of his sister, Mrs. Anne E. Howe.
Due to the statement of Mrs. Howe's
physicians that she cannot possibly re
cover, the PresIdent's personal prograrr
amounts to but little more than a list of
incertainties. Unless the unexpected
happens, and there is a definite change
for the better In his sister's condition,
his engagements to speak in St. Louls
and In Baltimore September 24 are like
v to be canceled.
Chairman McCormick is planning to
bring a number of civic organizations to
Shadow Lawn. These will be addressed
by the President from the veranda of his
summer home.
WILSON TOUR SCOUTED
BY LEADERS IN PARTY
It was reported yesterday that as a
result of the Maine election, President
Wilson's advisers were urging him to
take the stump and make a swing around
the country.
Senators Chamberlain. James, and
shepard. however, said they saw nothing
tn the Maine result that jeopardized
Democratic success in November. In
their judgment the result in Maine was
V what might have been expected.
I have not talked with any of the
leaders since the Maine election," sair
Senator James. "hut I know of no ren
son why the President should change hi
announced program of remaining at
S-hadow Imn
"A swing around the circle by an oc
eupant of the Presidential office is rather
an undignified proceeding," said Senator
hamberlain. "I gather solace from the
Maine election rather than alarm. There
was no issue there that will affect the
r-ople throughout the country and there
no occasion for the Democrats to be
alarmed."
"I imagine that President Wilson will
go ahead and conduct his campaign ac
cording to his original plan," said Sena
tor Sheppard.
AMERICAN AT FRONT
ARRESTED BY FRENCH
(By the International News Service.)
Paris. Sept. 13.-William B. Silberman
27, of New York, a member of the Amer
lean ambulance corps serving with the
French army, was arrested today at the
scene of his labors on the charge of at
tempting to trade with the enemy.
Silberman is alleged by the authorites
to have represented the Gottwik-Scheffer
Company, manufacturers of surgical in
struments, and to have sent the concert
a big French order, bu.t was unable tr
clear the goods at the port of arrival be
cause a certificate of origin was lacking.
TOO GALLANT TO LEND CENT.
Policeman Given Strike-Marooned
Damsel Whole Nickel.
New York, Sept. 13.-"Can you lend me
a cent, please?' asked a young womar
of Police Sergt. Peter Reed yesterday at
IFIfth avenue and Forty-second street.
"You see," she explained. "I thought I
had enough money-I want to go home
on the Fifth avenue 'bus-and I had a
soda and I thought I had enough change
left. but I found I had only four pen
nies and a nickel." -
"I never lend less than a nickel." said
the generous sergeant, forcing the coin
Into her hand and packing her into a
"bus.
"I'm geing to look for you tomorrow
and make you take the nickel back.
came a sweet voice as the vehicle rum
bled northward.
NO XATCH FOR U. S. EAGLE.
American Bird Pulla Head Off Chi
nese Game Chieken.
Pekin. China, Sept. 13.-After trim
ming the feathers and otherwisc disguis
ing their mascot eagle, the United
States marines attached to the American
Legation here recently succeeded in
matching their bite of freedom to fighi
a previously undefeated cock which was
the pride of the Chinese aporting ele
ment.
Upon being placed in the pit, the eagle
went to sleep. The cock, full of pepper.
bravely handed his adversary two blows.
This was too much fur the marine mas
cot; he awoke from his dream -of the
snow-capped Sierras and deliberately
pulled the chicken's head off.
British Veto Discussed.
Copenhagen (via London), Sept. 13
Swedish newspapers suggest that the so
cret object of the meeting of Scandina
vian mninisters at Christianla is to din
cunm the BRitish watoao we dmn imor
DISTRICT IDEAL
SITE FOR PLANT
Business Men Set Forth Ad
vantages for Armor Factory.
Washington's advantages and facilities
for the new $11,000,000 government armor
plate plant were admirably set forth by
a Committee of Capital business men.
headed by P. T. Moran, at the hearing
given by Secretary of the Navy Daniels
testerday to determine the location of
the proposed Federal industry authorized
In the recent naval bill.
One hundred and fifteen cities by dele
gations, or briefs, presented arguments
in favor of locating the factory within
their confines, but none offered stronger
appeal than the site advocated in the
District by the local committee.
Today the committee will attend the
sessions and listen to advantages offered
by other municipalities, and President
P. T. Moran, of the Champer of Com
merce. hopes to be heard again with
arguments in rebuttal favoring the Cap
Ital site.
A large delegation of business ,men
from Alexandria. headed by Representa
tive Carlin, made an especially forceful
argument and in the event the Washing
ton site is not deemed suitable, the local
committee favors Alexandria for the
new plant, which Is expected to employ
from I:.0t0 to 14,000 men.
The site discussed by Mr. Moran and
the committee, which consisted of J. U.
Chamberlain of the local Board of Trade,
Joseph 1. Weller and Thomas Grant of
the Chamber of Commerce, is on the
territory boundea by Third street west.
Second street, east, the James Creek
canal and the Anacostia river, including
CONTINUFD ON PAGE TWO.
ANGERED AMERICANS
ASK MEXICO HEARING
Persons Who Lost Relatives or Prop-!
erty Besiege Commissioners.
4By the Internatienal News Service.)
New landon, Conn., Sept. 11-Ameri
cans whose relatives were murdered or
whose property was destroyed or confis
cated are besieging th. American and
Mexican joint commission for a hearing.
Representatives of a number of Amer
ican interests have already arrived to
urge prompt and decisive action by tie
Washington government. They argue
that if the United States approves of
Carranza's taxation decrees, American
properties in Mexico will suffer a loss of
3:'50,000.000. One of these men said to
night:
"American property has been assessed
and taxed by the Carranza governors in
such a way as to mean confiscation. De
crees have been issued by the officials
which impose such onerous burdens upon
Americans as to compel them to sell out
at a sacrifice or abandon their properties
altogether.
"I belleve that Carraiza may want to
eqtahlih reforms to alleviate the wretch
e-d conditions of the peons, to allot them
land, to hreak up the holdings of the
great ilentitn o land owners. but I am
sure that he will never he permitted to
arry out his idealistic progiam."
BIRD ON HER HANDBAG,
iD. C. WOMAN STARTS FAD
Spria-l t 'he Washington Hemid.
New York, Sept. 13.-The brilliantly col
ored parrakeet of Mrs. I. I. Taintor, of
Washington, who ha., been in this city,
is being hailed by fashion experts as the
surcessor to Mrs. Castle's pet marmoset
of last year.
To be in style this season madame must
wear a small bird on the handle of her
hindbag and, of course, she must also
have gowns of a tropical green shade to
harmonize.
Mrs. Taintor arrived at the Waldorf
last Mionday from the mountains. That
afternoon she caused a stir in the lobby
by appearing with a tiny parrot perched
on her handbag.
Rumors of the new fad spread until
every time she walked on the ground
floor women moved about her to see
just how it was done. Yesterday morn
ing, when she started for Washington.
the parrakeet was still on its accustomed
perch.
AKRON STRIKE AT END.
Labor Department Conelliator Aids
in Adjusting Trouble.
The Labor Department yesterday was
advised by its conciliator at Akron, 0.,
who was mediating between striking ma
chinists in rubber factories there and
their employers, that the men had re
turned to work and the difficulties had
been adjusted. The employers agreed to
institute an eight-hour work day.
The Labor Department has received no
intimation that the services of its medi
ators will be asked either by directly
interested parties or by representatives
of the city in New York's street railway
strike difficulties.
TO ARREST MILITIA OFFICEES.
Iunston Charges Captains with
Looting Government Property.
San Antonio, Tex., Sept, fS.-Maj. Gen.
Funston today wired the War Depart
ment asking the arrest and return to
San Antonio to stand trail of Capts.
J. D. Wairath and Fred W. Laas, quar,
termasters of the First and Second Illi
nois Regiments. He accuses them of
failing to return to the army fifty gov
ernent mules loaned to the Illinois
militia.
"I'll try every militia officer on the
border, if necessary," Gen. Funston said,
"to cure them of looting government
property."
Dutch Freight Liner Sunk.
London, Sept. 13.-The new Dutch
freight liner Antwerpen, which was built
at Newport News, Va., has been sunk,
Lloyds announced today. The steamer
displaced 6,040 tons net and was 4g. feet
long.
Belgians Sent to Germany.
Harve (via Paris). Sept. IE'On.
von Biasing, military governor of Bel
glum, is sending Germany all Belgian
men between the ages of 28 and 5, Re
cently 1,200 were taken trem Liege.
Norwegian Steamer Sunk. -
London, Siept. 13.-Maratime advices re
port that the Norwegian, steamer Kong
Ring. 1.611 tons, k== be.en s..n.
| Telegraph Tips
Decatur. Ga., Sept. 13-Fire which
broke out early today completely do
stroyed the DeKalb County court hourn
here And for a time threatened the whole
city. The lose is estimated at NO.000.
Paris. Sept. 13.-Count Robert De-I
=sps, son of the late Count Fer4inand,
has been killed at the front. He was a
brother of Jacques DeLesseps, who mar
ried Miss Mackenzie, of New York.
Pittsburgh, Pa., Sept. 13.-Fire today
damaged the Baltimore and Ohio freight
depot and destroyed three carloads ofl
freight. Sixty loaded cars in the path'
of the flames were removed In time
to save their contents.
Berlin, Sept. 13.-Richard Straus, the.
composer, has completed his new opera,
'The Woman Without a Shadow."
New York, Sept. 13.-Three men wers
slightly injured in a fire which destroyed
the De Peau House. built in 1847, and four
other buildings on Glen Island, a pleasure
resort near this city. The season had
closed and all those on the island were
to have left today. The loss was $50,000.
Amsterdam, Sept. 13.-The Vossische
Zeitung is quoted In a dispatch from
Berlin as stating that after the war the
Hamburg-American and North German
Lloyd steamship lines will be combined.
Sofia (via Berlin), Sept. 13.-Gen. Bes
sarabesku, who commanded the Rquman
ian fortress of Tutrukan when it was
captured by the Bulgarians, tried to
escape in a boat, but this was sunk by
a Bulgarian shell, and the general was
drowned in the Danube.
St. Lohis, Sept. 1--The filing of an
inventory of the estatc of the late Col.
James Gay Butler in the Probate Court I
today revealed that the colonel drew a
pension of $3Z a month from the UnitedI
States government. despite the fact that
his fortune aggregated $4.150,000.
Greensboro, Md., Sept. 13-Lady Egia
tine, the wonder of the poultry world
and the pride of the Eglantine Farms, at
this place, is dead. Lady Eglantine for
many times has been the most famous
hen In the world. Hier supremacy goes
back to the time that she laid j15 eggs
during her pullet year.
Chicago, Sept. 13 -- Friends of [I. t'hand
ler Egan. former Wet, rn National and
Intercollegiate National golf champion.
learned today that i. waa secretly di
vorced last July. Mrs. Egan, whose home
is in Chicago. obtained the divorce. It
compatibility was given a-9 the cau.C.
Pittsfield, Mass., Sept. 13.-Daniel 1,
vey, alias 11. J. Clark. of New York.
owner of race horses. was arrested to
day. le is wanted in Pittsburgh on
charges of forgery amounting to $17,o5A.
Windsor. N. .. Sent. li--Fearing he
will return and atta-k th two brothers
of his wife. guards ar. keeping a close
watch for Lerov T. White. who Friday
best out his wife's brainv with the butt
end of a revolver in the pre'ence of their
three-year-old son.
New York. Sept. 13.-Touis Brtfore. nf
tohoken, wms found dead on the flor nf
his barber sh-p in Jersey 'lty yst'rday.
It was found he had been strangled by
a tight collar when in an rpileptic fit.
New York, Sept. 13.-Now comes a
pearl button famine to afflict the pub,.
At the convention of the Button Manu
faetnrers' Association of America yes
terday at the Waldorf-Astoria it was
said that prices had gone up from 200
to 300 per cent, according to the qual
ity of the shells from which the buttons
are made.
Durham. N. C., Sept. 13.-Following the
indictment of Y. E. Smith. wealthy
cotton manufacturer and former mem
her of the North Carolina legislature,
en the charge of attacking Mrs. John
M. Wyatt, a young farmer's wife, in her
home in Alaman e County, Mrs. Wyatt
today filed civil suit for $10.000.
Christiania, Sept. 13-A new ship,
which resembles a big barge, con
structed entirely of concrete. has been
built and floated here.
New London, Conn., Sept. 13.-That's
music," is the new campaign phrase of
President Wilson. He used it here
when a "life-long Republican" said:
"I'm for you this time,ofr. President."
Havana, Sept. 13.-A storm warning
Issued her, today said: "A disturbance
of cyclonic proportions exists over the
Bahamas and is moving toward the
northern part of the Florida coast. All
ships navigating these waters are warned
to proceed with caution."
Bristol, Tenn., Sept. 13.-Walter rid
ridge. 23 years o1l, whose ambition for
animal training ted him to join a circus,
was ruthlessly slain by Mary. a female
elephant, following the day-light per
formance at Kingsport.
Fon DU Lac, Wis.. Sept. 13.-Neighbors
of Albert Engel commented on the real
istic scarecrow he had erected in hiis
cornfield, but when they called to ask
him about it he was not at home. This
morning Peter Raul stopped to inspecti
the scarecrow and found it was the body
of the farmer himself.
San Antonio, Tex., Sept. 13.-A dance
given to National Guardsmen here under
the auspices of the National Young
Women's Christian Association has been*
denounced in resolutions by the Minis
tertal Union. The ministers protested,
against the dance itself and especially
against the form of introduction eInploy-,
ed by the girls and soldiers, each wear
ing on their breasts printed tags bearingl
their names.
Sheboygan, Wis., Sept. 13-Cheese has
reached t he record price of 19 cents a
pound on the Sheboygan call board,
when 1,321 longhorns, the offerings of
nineteen factories, sold for that price.
Enormno'ss demand from the European
countries, which is much greater than
the supply, sent prices up.
Greenwich, Conn., Sept. 13.-Through
filing of the marriage license record with
the county clerk at Portchester the mar
riage of Miss Mary Humphrey, daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. George Humphrey, of
Bridgepor t Conn., to Mr. Jose Dias, who
is said to be the grandson of one-time
President Pordio Dias, of Mexico, was
made known,
New Rochelie, N. Y., Sept. 13.-Instead
of becoming frightened when fire de
stroyed the sterilizing house attached to
the isnolation hospital here, many of the
little patients convalescing fromn infantile
paralysis asked the nurses to start an
other fir. *
Phillipsburg, N. J., Sept, 1.-Miss Mary
Dawson wa$ seriously burned late yes
terday while burning caterpillars from a
tree in her yard. A piece of lighted pa
per ignited he dress.
ITALIANS SENT
TO MACEDONIA
Fighting Side by Side with
British in Saloniki Drive.
(By the iteruntIemal New. Serviee.)
London, Sept. 13.-Italy has at last an
swered the allies' call to the Macedonian
front. Unlike her attitude a year ago,
when she replied to the same call that
the entente must rectify its own mis
takes, she had now sent an expeditionary
force to aid in the reconquest of Serbia,
and tonight Italians, fighting side by side
with the British on the allied right wing
on the River Struma, are locked in vio
!ent battle with the Bulgars.
The lion's share of today's continuance
of the allies' drive in Macedonia was
achieved by the Serbians, who, after vio
lent artillery duels, smashed a'head on
the whole of their front, driving the Bul
gars into precipitate retreat
A statement issued late tonight by the
Serbian war office, the latest official
news from the Macedonian front, says:
"Serbian Infantry in many points ex
elled the Bulgars from their advanced
i'ositions and occupied them."
It In added that all Bulgarian counter
attacks during last night failed, while
the Serbs were successful everywhere.
The town of Sorovitz. near Florina,
about fifteen miles south of Monastir,
fell to the Serbs last night.
The French, constituting the center,
between the Vardar and LAke Doiran.
ontinued throughout the day their ter
ritic drumfire on the Bulgarian lines and
carried out some successful though minor
infantry actions.
FRANCE MAY SELL ART
TREASURES TO AMERICA
Sale of Louvre and Luxembourg Paint
ings Urged.
i By the laternatieual News Service.)
Paris, Sept. 13.-New York bids fair to
become the hons' of many of the mas
terpieces now hanging in the Louvre
and Luxembourg museums. The sale of
these gems in the world of art was pro-I
posed today by Urbain Gohier in order to
restore France's trade balance with
A merica.
"America has become a formidable In
dustrIal power,'" he said' "She is heap
inc up prodigious wealth-gold or credits I
-whIh she will use after the war to
play a great role In the world's affairs.
"Franee can recover a portion of herl
specil' by selling Ameria what she
wants of our art masterpieces. We have
long sold Americans fakes and worthless
paintings. Let us now sell her works of
art, certified by our museum directors.
"We Possess an enormous %urplus of
old masters and moderns. Our muse
are beromInc so overerowded they really
hold more thsn we want. Let vs thin
out the ,nuv ro and Luxembourg collee.
tions for Ameria's benefit and make
room for tle ontliom. stream of works
we are alwsys scouring."
AUTOS SPEEDING ARMY
NOTE ACROSS COUNTRY
4 By the Internatiomal News Service.)
,'hi'ago, Sept. 13.-Well ahead of its
schedule. a military message is speeding
westward today via automobile In an at
tempt to prove that motor ears can aver
age thirty-one miles an hour on a coast
to-coast trip.
The message left Plymouth Rock,
Mass., Monday, at 1 : p. m., and ar
rived here by motor relay at 1I13 p. m.
last night.
A new car and driver were awaitng the
message here, and immediately -dashed
for Milwaukee. The message was one
hour and a half ahead of its schedule
when it left here.
NO DIVORCE FOR ICED TOE. I
Hushand Gets Deeree, Despitte Wife's
Story of Rude Awakening.
New York. Sept. 13--Ice water dropped
by a huhand on his wife's big toe Is
not enough to dissolve a marriage, ac
cording to Vice Chancellor Lewis, of
Jersey City.
Mrs. .luila Steffens, of Jersey City,
could show the vice chancellor r rea
son. for divorce stronger than the ice
water. which she says was poured on
her whil" she slept.
The decree was refused to her and
granted to her hushand. William Steffens,
of linhoken, In a counter suit, He ex
Plained It -' as Just a teaspoonful of
water, anyvay. and he was trying to
wake her -o she would go to church
with him.
KAISER DENIED RICE.
Swiss Refuse to Elport Product for
Emsperor's Own Table.
Paris, Sept. 13-The Swiss export com
mission has refused a personal request
of the Kaiser to furnish his table with
rice.
Baron von Romberg, the German Min
inter at Berne, asked the Swiss govern
ment to authorize the shIpment of 200
pounds of rice for consumption by the
Emperor and his family, but the export'
commission, being tied by an agreement
with the allies. was unable to comply
with the request.
ITATIAN COAST RAIDED.
Austrian Atr Squsdron Makes Ef
fective Attack.
VIenna (via BerlIn), Sept. 13.-An Aus
trian air ses'adron made an effective raid
upon the Italian coast Monday nightI
the admiralty announced today, The
following report was issued:
"On the night' of September 11-12 an
Austro-Hungarian naval air squadron
atacked the airship shed at G-eel, the
Falconara raIlroad station, and the de
fensive batteries at Ancona."
Plague Drops in New York.
New York, Sept. 11.-A substantial de
crease in new ceses of infantile paralysis
and deaths was reported by the depart
ment of health today. But thirty-one.
cases were recorded, with nine deaths.
ThIs, contrasted wIth Tuesday's report.,
shows seven less new cases and nine
less deaths.
German Aero. Sink Destroyer.
Berlin (via London). Sept, 1.-The Ger
man admiralty-anounced tonight that
German saplanee sank a hostile de
Men t= the tat P. n.
Ruian Army Acecused
Of Maacring Teten
..B international News servis)
Berlin, Sept. 12;-Russian troops
are accused In a statement Issued
by the Overseas News Agency to
day of butchering their German
prisoners. This policy is alleged
to have the approval of the Slav
commanders.
"An Austrian sergeant-major,who
escaped from the Russians.". said
the agency statement, "reports
that soldiers of the Twenty-second
and Twenty-third Siberian Rifles
told him how three German in
fantrymen who were taken prison- t1
er had been stabbed behind the
Russian trenche. n
"A special Russian order of
August 2 read:
0
'Comrades: When we attack.
everybody shall keep in mind that
Austrians can be taken prisoner, 0
but that Germans, as far as pos
e
sible, shall be massacred.
ta
GREEK PREMIER
FAVORS ALLIES I
W. Dimitrakopoulos, New :
Chief, Will Act Quickly.
IBy the lterational News Serviee.)
London, Sept. 13.-M. Dimittakopouios.
ormer minister of justice, strong friend It
f the entente and bitter antagonist of
hat he has denounced as the "wabh"3
>olicy of the Greek war cabincts, i- today f.
>remler of Greece.
Simultaneous with this news from Athens I
'ame a semi-official dispatch that Greece
vill be found actively on the allies' Fide
'perhaps within forty-eight hour.'
King Constantine, after pleading in vain
kith Alexander Zaimis to rescind his
emignation. finally accepted it today, and
IromptIy requested Dimitrakopoulos to
orni a ambinet. The latter accepted. S
The disappointment at first felt In en
tnte quarters because Venizelos. the
tilles' 'strong man' in Greece, had not
*turned to the premiership. was dispelled
>y the general prediction that he will be
tsked to take the portfolio of war minIs
er by TDimtrakopoulos. who is his friend.
Meanwhile. the new prime minister
)romptly proceded to proclaim that his
oiernment will be one of deeds. not 0
vords. He characterized the policy of
ormer cabinets as "detestable." and saidt
'urther: n
"Now or never must Greece deride her I
,i course of action. she must dee
4 remain neutral or intervene on the side I
Of the entente. This has been made ne- n
Mas by Roumania's Intervention.** e
RUSS (iNERAL EX[AM!"I
AUSTRIAN PRISON GAMP
(orniloff Returns to Kieff After Peni
ous Wanderings.
tpecim1 to lternational News "erviee'
and Loden Dully Telegraph.
Petrograd. Sept. 1t -en. -ornlot whn
was captured at Duklapass in A ri. 1Nil.
has reached Kieff after cs-oing from
in Austrian prison camp at Nas, k
Gen. Korniloff was kept Prisoner for
seventeen months, Ie finally managed to
procure a private's uniform. and in these
clothes. with the aid of a Czech soldier
otntrived to be sent out with a working
p~a rty.
Taking advantage of the momentary
Inattention of the gu;ard, they slipped
n.a,, hoarded a train, and traveled
Inhindered to Karashevish. Here they
,btained civiitan lothes and continued
their journey afoot, helt.ed by a perfect
knowledge of German.
The general's flight soon was dis
covered, and a :arge reward was offered
or his recapture. It was ton dangeroisa
to travel exc'pt by night. In the day
itie they hid in the woods and suffered
:xtreme hunger for days together. sib
tiding on berries. I
(Ine day the soldier ventured into a a
dillage in quest of food, was surrounded
by gendarmes. and was shot :n attempt- r
Ing to escape.
Korniloff, who was rapidly approaching
-omplete exhaiustion, continued hLis
;ourney alone. In the twenty-seoond
lay after his escape he met a party of
Roumanian Fhepherds, who gulded him
across the Russian frontier.
SHOT IN FEET FOR
REFUSING TO DANCE
New York. Sept. 14-William Ilaggerty. I
4 years old, a waiter, who, the police r
aid, recently inherited several thousand
iollars. entered a saloon early today and g
,alled upon everybody present to dance.
The police say he then drew a revlher,
and when two men refused to join eight
ithers in the middle of the floor. hlag
gerty fired four shots, all of which took
?ffect.
Joseph Lore was shot three times in
he ankle and feet. and Elmer Terwillger
was shot in the left heel.
U. S. EICHER BY $10.
Earn Sends iu Moeye Mlsappropri
sted by *Father.
Postmaster General Burleson received
yesterday from some conscience-stricken,
!ndividual a letter and a 110 bill which
he directed be put ir. the "'honsencew
The letter explains that the man's
father now dead. had missappropriated
some government money. IFe requested
the receipt of the money to he publishedI
In a Louisville. Ky.. newspaper,
HOLD UIP SPAJISH SHIP.
The State Department has receiv'ed in-(
formation of the refusal by the British 4
authtorities to peranit a Spanish merchant
ship sailing from a Spanish port for thet
Philippines to take ott bunker coal. i
The vessel carried goods consigned to(
order. sod the British authorities comn
pelled' the shio tn discharge its casrgos
tuwaiting ien inv'estigationa to deternune
whether- the goods were destined for a
arms am the Britt hansklit
"RENCH CAPTURE
THIRO LIKE OF
FOE AT PERONNE
Mole German Defense Sys
tem Between Comnbes and
Objective Seized in Drive.
By the Internatiiewa News Servicee.
London, Sept. lI-In the hrst open bat
e fought on the western front since the
attle of the Marne. the French last
ight and today wrested from the Ge
uane the whole -ystem of third-line d, -
mts.- between ('ombl.s and Peronne.
They captured the whole of the la.e
r Bouchavesnes. rmduay between these
ro vital Teuton baes of support, root
I their own lines firmly into the blood
>dden highway that connects the two
Dints, and smashed ahead farther to the
Aet, taking by storm the Bois lAbt
arm. lost it again to two counter-at
Lcking German regiments but subse
uently recon-jue-red th- =hoc of it
The day saw the firceet open fighting
-corded in the west sinie the carO part
r the war
Time and tune again the Raxarian
rince hurh i his Infantry h-none against
le French tide, only to e ewerT bche
y the soldiers under Ge'rn Faynfle. na
ves of Iliard - who rushed for ard
Ith the bltter tenacity of men righting
,r their htarth and hone.
Berlin admits this afternoon that the
rench "ented ho uchavesnes *
Both Iombles and Peronne are now
olatid. encircled. and under terrifi
ombhardment
More than 2,30( unwounded prisoners.
'n cannon. and forty machine guns
ere taken I the Fr-rich in xesterdasi
nd todav-s vi-torious onrush the gone
i the Bouchavesnes sector alone.
The British rested again tois, i-onsoI
lating their lines preparatory to the
nal attack on Combles
IOUMANIANS CAPTURE
IWO IMPORTANT TOWNS
eize Selimbow and Scholernbcrg in
Carpathian Drive.
By the Int e-arettemal News ervee.
London. Sept. 2 i-New importaet un
asses in the Transylvantaa Alps and
i the sooded reirons of 'I- -"P,. 1",.
erR announcei by the R-: snihn s
nfce tonight.
The capture of Selimbow and exhle"n
erg is oftcianv re-ported the Ro
anlans takitte Il prisoners, ',-J.-;
4ree offleers.
The Ausiro-de'rtan feees wer
ilsed in the Sltrelicl valey. -e
-n in prisoners. two "ux- an
hin. gimS
An offlial statement -' -
aeharest war office tor i
change in the Rounan'an
oands xen Avereo hther
mander of the second se.-.* n
ivania, has been appointed tc the
i1ran of the th'rd a'-mr. suc-eed-ing ,
trainiceanu. the latter ta r coni
f, the second arm,.
C;n -rera ,; has Ie- sttsre to
British arir
M0 WARD B. MLEAN SUED
FOR COST OF PAINTINfiS
uchard Newton, Artist. Alleges $1.266
Still Due Filn.
Richard Newton. an ar '?. ,i p
h, District Sutreme 0'r:rt ye-rd
Ca nst E:dward t MrI-an to re,,m.
. - i h' i g d t o b ' ! e h i- m , ' 1 -
ictures of horses h l-h- !ixo,.
antid fir the deinant durng th.
,I n f r1 -^
The plairttif says he -t Mircar .I
he horse Fhow here in ' - nd - .,- I
r or-r :0 make raiobs of to'r.
-vs-s. ron ater reeoelrI an ,oI.r or
not P r TI.- can% ases h CaNS. --e
Niver as per artract ae, he was
a'e r.,coe the s-- ' - -ach fir
1oi. uith -rtain 0;btr 'itwnses le
as the ourt Iat K ls gratIh
1trest f-mrm tru.- s 4 lie 1. i
1ent.ld by Attoorniys M. lnxhun &
1AY FILE REPLY TODAY
IN HEART BALM ACTION
Attornre fi-or Ni es Edit b ii -
f Mrs Edn -- $r' d1tmages
o i- e ale-sd a> ntiox if i'O . -,
oTs -f hor motorman hushand i
rstrict Surrm <ou;rt todlay or torr
The suit was filed by Mrs. Cox on Au
ust =2 and under ths rules of the court
he defendat lis twen"y days. -xclu
,iv of Sondays and hOl Ie ti Ie an
newer. The time expire, t morrw
INTERlN ENT CAMPS LAUDED.
oieriean Embassy Oite1i t .5teprt
Paverably to Bristh.
London. Sept. 13.-In a awhite paper is
ued totnight, the government makies pub
.c the findings of an Ameriean Emxxbae
fficial who has visited the ilitars and
lvil internment camps In Great Britaix,
The docurnent shows but fx w ciom
iaints and a remarkably low death rate.
n exam-pie of which was found at Stols,
r-here but twelve death. occurred in
ighteen months amsong the 4.000 prsaon
ra there Interned.
WAITS HIS CENT JACK
beeter Claims that let Martim.
Robbed Him.
Albany. N. Y., Sept 13 --A foama
laitn for the recov'ery of one ceti was
:>dged with the up>-State Po-hlie Servfie
ommisuuion today by Dr. William Brady.
'f Eira.
He wants to get ba& the equialen).mt of
he coia he teposited in a drinking cup
nachine on a ralltead train betwesn
'anadtalgua and Eldra on Septembter &.
nd for which he says ne cup was forth
oming.
The ciasen hae puot In muo. the same
.drainlstrative machinery as W5av~e
een nresi ger a pel
