ix
HO! FORJ E FAIR
Silver Jubilee Exposition of Mille Lacs
County Agricultural Society
Opened Yesterday.
Exhibits Numerous and Indications
Point to a Record Breaking
Fair in Every Way.
Yesterday, the opening day of the
Sliver Jubilee exposition of the Mille
Lacs County Agricultural society,
dawned auspiciously and real fair
weather marked the entry day. A
cloudless sky cheered the officers and
directors.
A Union repoiter visited the
grounds yesterday and they certainly
presented a holiday appearance. Flags
were waving, lefieshment stands op
erating and \anous booths weie be
ing placed in leadmess.
All the exhibits were not m, but
the showing was a splendid one even
early the afternoon. The cattle
barn was almost filled, and fair vis
itors will be ifforded an opportunity
to view some fine herds Sam Droogs
ma has enteied his herd of Herefords,
FRANK B. KELLOGG
Will speak at the Fair Grounds, Fri
day, Sept 15, at 2 o'clock m.
Be Sure and Hear Him.
and N. Paiks has a herd of Hol
stem Friesians entered. Others have
some nice stock on exhibition also, and
other entries are expected, including
herds of advanced Holstems and
Guernseys by the Milaca Breeders'
association.
The horses exhibited this year in
clude some splendid animals, and some
exceptionally fine colts are in the lot.
Blooded hogs and some nice sheep
are also entered.
The poultry hall contains some fine
birds, and ducks, geese and chickens,
quack, hiss and cluck as a visitor
ipasses through.
The school exhibits from Princeton
and the rural schools are well worth
inspecting Superintendent Ewmg is
in charge of the rural display, and
he has some prize-winning vegetables
grown by farmers' boys as well as
the regular specimens of drawing,
writing, etc on exhibition.
Booths have been fitted up under the
grandstand for the exhibits of Farm
ers' clubs, and at 3 o'clock yesterday
three clubs had their displays readi
ness, viz: Milo Mutual, Woodward
Brook and Chase Brook. Vegetables,
gram and grasses such as only Mille
Lacs county soil can produce were
included in the exhibits.
The entries in the pastry and do
mestic canned fruit department appear
so appetizing and are so attractively
arranged as to make one's mouth
water.
No fair visitor should pass by the
art hall. Here the nicest kind of
needle work that human hands ^an
produce may be viewed, and the west
wing contains paintings of merit by
amateurs. Here, too, Princeton mer
chants have attractively arranged
booths.
The agricultural hall contains vege
tables, grains and grasses grown by
the best farmers in this section of
Minnesota, as well as flowers and
fruits. It is well worth visiting.
This afternoon the amusement pro
gram will commence, and indications
are that the Silver Jubilee exposition
will be a record breaker in every re
spect. The* program is varied and old
and young will be entertained. Close
and exciting ball games, fast horse
races and other contests and sports
will be enjoyed by those in attendance.
A hundred autos are expected from
Anoka Friday.
Fish Dying.
Dr. Geo. W. Frasier of Wahkon re
cently wro'te to Carlos Avery, of the
state game and fish commission, rela-
pwpMjjU^iM^^
Mmn. Historical Society
tive to fish dying to a greater extent
than usual in Mille Lacs lake this
year. Mr. Avery replying stated
his office has had reports from a good
many lakes this year which similar
conditions prevail. The varieties af
fected have been whitefish, trehpies,
crappies, perch and sunfish especi
ally. The other varieties have not
suffered to any great extent. But the
department is not equipped with any
scientific investigators to look into
such matters.
As a possible explanation Mr. Avery
gave the following:
"In lakes similar to our Minnesota
lakes actual diseases seldom affect
fish, but there are a good many natur
al causes of mortality among fish. In
seasons of high water when there is
much drainage from surrounding land
into the lakes/there is a good deal
of erosion, and the water flowing into
the lakes carries with it sediment,
rubbish, leaf mould and other vegeta
ble matter which is deposited the
lakes, and it decomposes later the
summer as the weather warms up.
This decomposition, as you know, ex
hausts the free oxygen of the water
upon which the fish depend foi life,
and releases sulphur dioxide gas
which, when excessive, is deadly to
fish. I am inclined to think that in
many cases this is the cause of the
fish mortality, although it might not
be in your instance."
Married at Mankato.
Mankato was the scene of a very
charming wedding at noon, Tuesday,
Sept. 5, when Miss Olga Krergel, the
only daughter of Mr. and Mrs. W. C.
Krengel of this place, became the
bride of Virgil Wmsor of Excelsior.
The ceremony was performed the
German Lutheran church of that
place, Rev. A. Winter, the pastor,
officiating, with only the immediate
relatives of the bride as witnesses.
The bride wore a beautiful gown
of white embroidered georgette crepe
over messalme, her full veil being of
the same material and caught up
with orange blossoms. Miss Frieda
Rosenow of Wells, her cousin, was
bridesmaid, her gown being a golden
colored marquisette and her flowers
yellow roses. Attorney Wm. Prescott,
of St. Paul, a boyhood friend of the
groom, acted as best man.
After the ceremony, the party en
joyed a wedding dinner at the Saul
paugh, the happy couple leaving on
the afternoon train for the cities.
The bride wore a traveling suit of
black taffeta with hat to match. Af
ter a trip to Princeton, Duluth and
other points in the northern part of
the state, they will return to Ma
pleton for a short time before they
go to Excelsior where ttiey will live.
The bride is well-known to every
one in this vicinity, having been born
and always lived in Mapleton. For
several years she was employed in
Troendle's general store as saleslady
and later in Greiner's millinery de
partment, winning many friends by
her pleasing manner and careful at
tention to business. Mr. Winsor is
comparatively a stranger to most of
our people but is highly spoken of
by those who know him. He is em
ployed as a traveling salesman by
one of the twin city firms with head
quarters at Excelsior where the young
people will make their home. The
Enterprise joins with a host of friends
in extending congratulations.Maple
ton Enterprise.
Game Instead of Mexicans.
Militia officers and enlisted men
who have been anxious to get a shot
at some Texas wild game before re
turning home may gratify their de
sire from now on.
Brig. Gen. E. M. Lewis, command
ing Camp Llano Grande, has issued
an order revoking the prohibition on
hunting, and if the troops remain here
until Nov. 1, when the deer season
opens, hunting parties will be com
mon.
The dove season opened Sept. 1,
and a hunter is limited to fifteen
birds a day. Three deer may be killed
a season, and are very plentiful along
that section of the border.
Hunting for turkeys, partridges,
woodcock, snipe, quail and ducks is a
favorite sport later in the fall, wild
game of all description being very
plentiful.
A Dead Circus.
The other day a young woman
teacher took eight of her pupils
through the museum of natural his
tory.
"Well, my boy, where did you go
with your teacher this afternoon?"
asked the mother of one of them on
his return.
With joyous promptness he an
swered: "She took us to a dead cir
cus.
*R. C. DUNN, Publisher. Terms, $1.00 Per Year. PRINCETON, MILLE LACS COUNTY, MINNESOTA, THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 1916.
COUNTY DADS MEET
Board of County Commissioners Met
in Regular Session at County
Auditor's Office Tuesday.
Four New School Districts Formed
in the Town of Borgholm
Other Business Transacted.
The board of county commissioners
met in regular session at the office
of the county auditor Tuesday. All
members of the board were present
and Chairman Cater presided^
The board acted favorably on the
petitions asking for the formation of
four new school districts in the town
of Borgholm, and they are numbered
as follows: 49, 50, 51 and 52. The
territory involved was formerly a part
of district 14 which included about
three-fourths of the town of Borg
holm. District 14 is some smaller as
a result.
A petition asking for the resurvey
of section 4, town of Page, was pre
sented to the board, and date of hear
ing in the matter was set for October
10, at 2 o'clock.
The petition of C. P. Jorgenson of
the town of Borgholm, asking that his
lands be set off from school district
14 and made a part of district 25,
came up for final hearing. On motion
the petition was granted.
Nils B. Berg of Isle petitioned the
board to have his 120-acre farm set
off from that village and made a part
of Isle Harbor township. January 2,
1917, was designated as a date of
hearing in the matter.
After acting on the usual grist of
bills the board adjourned. The next
meeting will be held on October 10,
but the board will meet in special ses
sion next Tuesday for the preliminary
hearing on the petition asking for the
construction of a ditch in Princeton
town.
Hardly Ever Appreciated.
The public-spirited citizen shouldn't
waste any time in anticipation of praise
or reward from the public in general
for the good deeds he has done for the
public welfare, for it will not be forth
coming, except in a few individual in
stances. The public-spirited citizen
should not be discouraged, however,
but should be encouraged in the self
satisfaction that he is doing what he
believes to be his duty that the man
who is so selfish that he lives unto
himself is about as good as no man
that the really good man is the one
who gives back something to his com
munity, his state and his nation for
the many benefits he and his family
have received through our public in
stitutions, and in other ways, during
their lives on earth.Browns Valley
Tribune.
A GREAT ROAD SCHEME
If the road program for next year in Mille Lacs county is car-
ried out as planned at least 100 miles of permanently improved
gravel-surfaced roads, roads that will be in good condition at all
seasons of the year, will be constructed. This program includes
the permanent improvement of all the state roads in the county
the cross state roads as well as the main north and south state
road from the Sherburne to the Crow Wing county line. It means,
too, that by 1919 all the main town and county roads will also be
gravel surfaced, and Mille Lacs will have the best system of roads
of any county in northern Minnesota.
For several reasons we cannot go into details at this time,
suffice it to say for the present that one of the important initial
steps is the submission to the county commissioners of a petition
requesting that the matter of bonding the county to the extent
of $75,000 for" the purpose of making permanent road improve-
ments be submitted to the voters at the ensuing general election.
If that proposition carries $70,000 can be obtained from other
sources, which would mean that $145,000 would be expended in
permanent road improvement in Mille Lacs county next year.
Every section of the county would share In the benefits to be
conferred. It is not proposed that all the money should be expend-
ed on any one roadthe ballots will specifically state upon what
roads the money will be expended.
We repeat there will be a fair division of the funds and every
section of the county will be presently and directly benefited.
Take our word for it, it is a fair and equitable schemethe
Union would not stand for anything elseand it is a golden op-
portunity for Mille Lacs county to secure a system of permanent
good roads, an opportunity if rejected that may not occur again
during the present generation.
The scheme also includes the improvement of the state road
from Zimmerman to Princetonthat is one of the important links
in the chain from St. Paul and Minneapolis clear through to the
Canadian boundary.
Full details will be submitted later, but it is absolutely neces-
sary that prompt action be taken by the county commissioners
in order that the bonding proposition should be submitted to the
voters at the ensuing general election.
The Greatest Menace.
The greatest menace to the peace,
welfare and progress of this glorious
republic of ours, as we see it, is not
from some armed foe from foreign
shores, but from the agitators and
political quacks within. Those wild
eyed specimens of half-baked humani
ty .go up and down the land crying
then?- wares, and trying to arouse the
people and set friends against friends
and pit neighbors against neighbors.
They make all sorts of accusations and
insinuations they try to arouse the
laboring man against capital they
strive to make war on various religious
sects they even assail the flag and
the government. The Constitution of
the United States guarantees free
speech and a free press, but under no
consideration should that freedom of
speech and press be construed as li
cense. There is reason in all things
and these professional agitators should
not be allowed to run wild at the
mouth or insult our institutions with
the pen. Labor and capital each have
their rights, and those rights should
be and must be respected.Winnebago
City Enterprise.
Books for the Asking.
Are you making use of the State
Free Traveling Libraries?
A book or books may be had on re
quest and by paying postage or freight
on the same. The cheap rates now
offered by parcel post make books
accessible to all.
These loans are made in two ways
special loans of one or two books,
which may be kept for two weeks or
one month on payment of postage
both ways. Traveling library loans
of 25 or 50 volumes, which may be
kept for six months, on payment of
50c or $1.00 respectively to cover
transportation charges.
Do you need a package library for
debates? A club library for your
women's club? An agricultural libra
ry for your farmers' club A general,
foreign language, children's or teach
ers' library for your town? Do you
want information which can be sup
plied by a book or magazine article?
If so address your state department.
Minnesota Public Library Commission,
the Capitol, St. Paul, Mmn.
Thomas F. Warren.
At an early hour last Thursday
morning Mr. Thomas F. Warren
passed awaj^ at the home of his son
and daughter at the Arlington hotel
in Milaca. Funeral services were held
at the hotel Friday afternoon, and on
Saturday the remains were conveyed
to Anoka and interred in the family
burial lot alongside those of his wife
who had preceded him about eight
years before.
Tom Warren, as he was familiarly
called, was 78 years old at the time of
his death and was a native of the state
of Maine. During the war of the
rebellion he battled for the old flag
and he was held high esteem by
his old comrades. He was Vme of the
pioneers of northern Mille Lacs coun
ty, where he resided for many years,
and was well and favorably known to
all the old settlers of the Rum river
valley. He is survived by five chil
dren, all respected residents of this
county: Mrs. George Orton, Mrs. R.
F. Thompson and Mr. J. F. Warren,
of Onamia and Mrs. M. I. Clark and
Mr. G. F. Warren of Milaca.
Mrs. Frank Hager.
Mrs. Frank Hager, an esteemed
resident of Greenbush, passed away
Monday following a brief illness.
Pulmonary hemorrage caused death.
Funeral services were conducted
this morning from the St. Edward's
Catholic church at 10 o'clock.
Deceased was a native of Austria
and was born on October 4, 1841. Be
sides the husband she is survived "by
two children, viz: Mrs. J. M. Appel
of Greenbush and John, of Barney,
N. D.
Describing Eternity.
A colored preacher was trying to
impress upon his congregation the
length of eternity.
"If a sparrow, breddren, should take
a drop of water from the Atlantic
ocean at Coney Island and with the
drop of water his beak should hop
a hop a day until he reached the Pa
cific ocean at SanFrancisco, and when
he got there should let the drop fall
into the Pacific, and when this was
done should turn round and hop a hop
a day all the way back to Coney Is
land, get another drop and do the
same thing all over, and keep on do
ing the very same thing until he had
carried the whole Atlantic ocean over
into the Pacific, it would then be only
early morning eternity.
The American Way.
If Mr. Wilson, president of theUnit
ed States, could bottle all the criticism
that has been hurled against him dur
ing the past six months, he would be
able to nurse all the political infants
the United States from now until
kingdom comes. But that's the Amer
ican way. A president is always pop
ular at the beginning of his admin
istration, but when he gets about half
through it, he becomes a target of un
limited censure and abuse. If Presi
dent Wilson should be an instrument
through which the railway strike
should be permanently settled, he
should at least not be condemned for
trying to do his duty.Chisago Coun
ty Press.
The Farmers Do, However.
Suppose the farm hands of the na
tion should organize and demand an
eight-hour day with ten hours pay,
and time and a half for overtime,
and the President should go to con
gress and demand vthe passage of a
law compelling the farmers to pay
the wages demanded, regardless of
the fact that it might mean bank
ruptcy for some of them suppose he
should announce further that if
they failed to comply with the law,
the government would sieze their
farms. That is exactly the position
the railways are in, but of course,
the railways do not cast very many
votes.Fergus Falls Journal.
Onamia Robbery.
The Onamia post office and the Per
son's Hardware Co's. store of that
village were entered early in the
morning of the 5th mst. The follow
ing articles were taken from the hard
ware store: One 32-20 Police Posi
tive Colts revolver, and $23 in cash.
And from the post office: $1.20 in
Buffalo nickels, $1.50 in pennies and
two five-dollar Hills. The only thing
that could be identified would be the
revolver. Sheriff Harry Shockley was
notified at once, and he is working
on some good clues. Descriptions of
a couple of suspects have been mailed
to surrounding officers.
The One She Didn't Shoot At.
The accused was a beautiful woman.
Under the circumstances her examina
tion was purely a matter of form,
still legal formalities had to be ob
served.
"I understand," said the detective,
"that during the absence of your hus
band you shot a burglar?"
"I did," the beautiful lady admitted.
"What became of him?"
"Why the other burglar took him
away."
"Which other burglar?"
"The one I shot at."New York
Times.
If They Don't They Ought To.
Do you Chisago county mothers
know that sunlight and sanitation, not
silks and satins, make better babies?
Chisago County Press.
A STRENUOUS HIKE
Co. Hikes in Heavy Marching Order
for First Time and Emerges
in Good Condition.
Officers Are Kept Busy Studying Un-
der a Regular Army Man
Other Border News.
Camp Llano Grande, Sept. 8, 1916.
The month of September finds us
still fighting the heat, and it is said
that this is the warmest month of the
year this section.
Labor day was a holiday, and the
boys of Co. as well as the other
officers and men enjoyed a respite
from the regular routine of camp life.
Captain Johnson and two other cap
tains of the second battalion visited
Brownsville, Texas, that day.
Last Thursday a review of the mo
tor trucks, the supply companies and
hospital corps and all their equipment
was held. It made a parade about a
mile long, and was quite a sight. I
don't believe I ever saw so many mules
and wagons in line before. We find
they are a very necessary part of a
regiment as our food supply depends
on them.
The boys are pleased that President
Wilson succeeded in averting the rail
road strike, as there is now no danger
that they will be called upon for
strike duty. They would rather fight
Mexicans any day.
Last Friday we made our regular
hike in heavy marching order, for the
first time, and the distance covered
was three miles longer than usual.
The boys are "hard boiled" now, and
completed the strenuous walk in good
condition. Had this "hike" been at
tempted when we first reached here
I doubt if a man would have been in
line at the finish. We stopped at a
lake northeast of here, and those who
desired were granted permission to
take a plunge. There was no danger
of cramps as the water was extreme
ly warm.
The officers are kept busy studying
under the tutelage of a regular army
man. They recite in classes the same
as at school. Lieut. Morton is partic
ularly busy, as he has charge of the
school for non-commissioned officers.
Rains continue frequent, and we ex
pect a heavy downpour Sunday, as it
will then be Co. G's turn to go on
guard again.
Gene Kalkman, who Is with the reg
ular army at Harhngen, Texas, visit
ed us recently. He looked fine, and
it is very evident that the regulars
take particular care to keep their uni
forms in spick and span condition.
Quartermaster Hofflander attends
the mess sergeant's school regularly,
and is instructed by Co. A's million
aire quartermaster.
New orders became effective Sept.
1, which provide for three hours drill
in the morning and one in the after
noon, and two hours of lecture daily.
Of late Co. has visited the range
every day, and each man has fired
ten rounds at the targets. A canal
embankment forms the backstop for
the bullets.
Rumors to the effect that the na^
tional guard at the border will de
mobilize and return home in the near
future continue numerous. But you
folks up north know as much about
that as we do. MIKE
Frosts Reduce Corn Germination.
Seed corn that does not germinate
90 per cent or better is not fit to be
planted for the production of ears.
Germination is the one factor that
regulates the value of seed corn of
any class or variety. Even fodder
corn seed ought to have a high germ
ination testing power. A false im
pression prevails that fodder corn does
not need to have a high germination
record, like ear corn seed.
Killing frost on standing corn is al
most sure to impair the germination
of the seed. It is better to cut too
early than too late If cut and
shocked when about 90 per cfertt*$
the ears are just well dented, the' ker
nels will fiill out properly in the shock
and the germination will be preserved.
A killing frost while the corn is stand
ing may almost destroy the germinat
ing power. The injury wilPbe .rpfa
tively larger as the crop is'less ma
ture.C. P. Bull, University Farm,
St. Paul.
Aeroplane Uncertain.
At the hour of going to press it is
uncertain whether there will be 'any
aeroplane flightsfat
i 'Z ~V
HISTORICAL
VOLUME XI
the fair. The ma-
chine that wasW-feherVhas broken
down at Rush Citfo' Another machine
from Chicago ll^lxpectld, but .no
definite information is'obtainable 4 his
morning. It is doubtful whether the
machine will get here.
"3 A'
