C22
NIGHT
EXTRA
Icuening
tf in AnciAl edition'
SJrttget
VOL. 3H.-NO. 1
PIULADBLPIIIA, TUUBSDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 1910
Conusor, 1018, it tiis Vduo Lraan Coufaxt.
Teuton allies plan great
BALKAN DRIVE; FRENCH GUNS
CONTROL ROADS TO PERONNE
Jig Offensive Decided Upon by Central
Empires Against Rumania and
on Macedonian Front,
Rome Asserts
T.OND0N. Sept 14. Revolutionary movements have hrnken nn (n i,
fretk Islands of Chios, Mytilcne and Samoa and arc extending to other Greek
hhch ons in inc veguun ocu. uibiiuiciks irom aaionica today renortM th
iarrlvl of Greek offlccts from those islands disguised as sailors, stokers and
thauffeurs. some ot tnese omccrs nae volunteered tor service with the allied
' fsrees in Macedonia.
A great offenswe dpslgned to punish Rumania and drivo tne allied forces
i from the Salonlca front will soon be undertaken by the Central Empires.
t;rhis offensive was decided upon at tne war council held yesterday by repre
sentatives pi tne icuion, auies anu prcsiaca over oy tne Kaiser. Troop3 are
Already on the way from Belgium-to tho cast front to rclnforco tho German-"Bulcar-Turklsh
army.
While the plans for the big drive arc under way French nnd Serbian
'forces ore continuing their attacks on the Struma and Vnrdar fronts. Paris
nd .Salonlca report gains for tho Franco-Serbians, and these reports arc
denied by Sofia and Berlin. A great battle is now raging in the Dobrudla
.district between Russo-Rumanlan and Gcrman-Bulgar forces, according to
. Petrograd. Heavy German reinforcements have joined tho Austrians in Tran
sylvania, but liucharcst continues to report progress in that theater.
On th'o Somme front the French troops have now gained control of all
iV MirViwnv. to Pnrnnnp. The town la almost pnMrnlw isrlnf,l v , ..
C ef the German line, and its fall is believed near. The British have extended
t "their ground in tho neighborhood of Gmchy, thus bringing their lines closer
'to the new positions of tho French. The fall of Peronno would force the
1 abandonment by the Germans of tho entire Noyon salient.
CENTRAL EMPIRES DECIDE
TO INITIATE GREAT DRIVE
IN BALKANS, ROME SAYS
LONDON". Sent. 14. Emporor William
and representatles o Germany's nllles in
conference at German military headquarters
hare decided to Initiate a great offensUo in
tat Balkans, according to a Home dispatch
,u wvuQ wirciCBB lirrns. a.m.. owifco ... w. -
t many win send zou.uog men ana Austria
? trill contrlbuto 100.000 to co-operate with
k-Mrt Bulgarians and Turks.
AUSAX.UiJ.A-ni, Sept. n lllBO immucm
rf vi uerman troops Biuuuueu in ucibiui" j
' eibtf transferred to the eastern front. All
nenger service on tno uerman rauroaas
Lbeen held up for two days to facilitate
I J Kttstern movement.
German troops stationed In Belgium
serves consisting of men hitnerto re
ad as too old for. continued active
f serrlce. That they should -be. sent to the
fentern theater Indicates a possible Teuton
ftnelve la tho Balkans.
itMCII AND SERBS PUSH
P. ,itv ah nunvini rnnvm
' PARIS WAR OFFICE SAYS
7 PARIS, Sept. 14.
' t' Continuing their iolnt offensive on tho
I Allies' left wing1, the Serbian and French.
Sweeps hive won, further successes oer the
f Bulfarlans. according to an offlclal report
o the Salonlca operations Issued by the
(War OHlce tqday.
I The Serbians, It states, maintain their
liMofrees west of the Vardar. They have
Seaotured a height west of Hill 1500. The
l Renting In this district Is still In progress.
SALONICA, Sept 14.
Bulgarian troops have made prisoners of
- entire. Fifth Division of the Greek
; erjpy at Ka'vala, It was announced hero to
y, The Bulgars also took possession of
Greek military supplies In tho town
pe4 the forts nearby.
JlUMANIANS AND FOES
n riAvimw tttqctaiuci nifnnDT
""'""i auooinufl '"
PETROGRAD, Sept 14.
Rumanian trooDs are encaccd In battle
jen the Danube with German and Bulgar
j tan forces, the Russian War OfTlce an-
Bounced today. The fighting Is In prog
' In the region of Slllstrla and thus far
.ss favored the Rumanians, who captured
iht light guns.
iiie War Office report follows
On the western front of the Russian
armies tlie situation Is unchanged.
in me Caucasus as a result of en
gagements in the region of Hamadan
e captured a herd o cattle and cam
els. On the Balkan front In tho region ot
WlUtrla, fighting Is proceeding on the
Danube. The Rumanians repelled the
attacks of the Germans and Bulgarians t
and captured eight light guns.
ILLIED OFFENSIVE HALTED
IN MACEDONIA, BULGARIAN
DISPATCHES ASSERT
BERLIN. Sept 14.
The i.jr Alii .-i . ,.
ltd "Vin completely halted, according to
( JSSDa dlBDatchru inAnv
ft ,!" British forces that attempted to
R 2, 1c ,n he region of Seres were re-
f-w. zunering heavy losses The Biltlsh
We fOrCed In rltrtnltlal UmnAmrili. ...
TTir P'twns and aro now In retreat
liTra attacki, by French and Italian
u-tb ceen easily repulsed. Tho
.M A - ... . iikuv nriiii,. i,c
IIW lunnAMMi .. .
fewl back to their former positions, be-
CtflMaatd en Fate roar, Cclomn Two
THE WJ3ATHER
FORKnAST
Jor Phihdtlpfiia Mnd vicinity Uv
lontght and Friday, with prob
wine light rain; aemewhat coqlcr
V, gtntH variable winds.
rj. j -wi" ur vix
FlEljil,,"i -"'l" rtoes.. Taopm.
" J .i,lloo Hvtha, l;t a.m.
"W-WARK KIVKK TJ1S CHANGJW
: (Hak . wimui arrHBarr
itar Z-?". i
t WBLBr..1
r, 10,11 a.m.lLew wur..lilt
iB4rgF-i-pi--M .ai i'.t
WT AND FOVatD
GOES INSANE AND ENDS LIFE
Lancaster County Official Threatens
Family and Commits Suicido
LANCASTER, Pa.. Sept 14 J. Henry
Sherts, forty-fho jcars old, a courthouse
ofnclal, committed suicido trfday In his bed
room by placing a gas hoso In his mouth.
During tho night ho had becomo violently
Insane nnd drlcn his wife and child from
tho house,, threatening their lives and his
own. When they returned tho body was
found.
MOB OILS RAILS;
EIGfiT HURT AS
TROLLEYS CRASH
One May Die as Result of
Accidents in New York
Strike
MANY TRAINS ATTACKED
Elevated Cars Bombarded With
Stones and Bottles From
Housetops
.. i
NETW TORK, Sept 14 felght persons
were hurt, one seriously, in a scries of col
lisions at "Westchester and Brook avenue In
the Bronx today, when strike sympathizers
greased the rails of the surface car line.
Grease mado the raotormen tunable to
stop their cars on the grade at this point.
Traltlo was tied up mora than an hour.
Crowds jeered the crews until dispersed
b the police.
Rioting nlong the e!eatod and surface
lines affected by the traction strike con
tlnued today. During tho early hours no
serious violence occurred, but there were
enough disturbances throughout the strike
rone to keep the police on tho Jump. ,
As usual, tho fatorlte method of attack
was hurling missiles from roofs at clcated
trains and dragging motormen and con
ductors from surfaco cars.
A Ninth aenue train was bombarded
with bricks and bottles as it sped past 127th
street A brick crashed through a car win
dow, but nobody was Injured.
From tho roof of a tenement at Sixth
avenue nnd Fiftieth street a fusillade of
stones and bottles showered upon a train,
smashing scleral windows. Another train
was bombarded nt Ninth aenue and Thirty-fourth
street, but no one was hurt and
no arrests w ere made. "v
LINES CLAIM VICTORY
Reiterating their declaration that the
strike on the elevated and subway lines had
been broken and the struggle on the sur
face lines would terminate In twenty-four
hourB in a complete defeat ot the, union,
traction offlclals early In the day set about
making their threat good.
Assembling 1400 lojal employes- at the
surface barns, they sent out the cars at
frequent Intenals, all under police guard.
Continued en Tate Two, Column FMir
PROOF OF DOPE
SMUGGLING FOUND
BY REVENUE MAN
Consignment Worth $32,600
Shipped From 'Here to
Canada and Returned
SYNDICATE'S HAND SEEN
Bottles Bearing Labels of Phila
delphia Drug Firm Peddled
in Tenderloin
Rvldence of the smuggling1 back into
Philadelphia of a portion of a consignment
of narcotic drugs alued at JS2.600 has
been discovered by Colonel William Gray
Beach, general deputy tntemal revenue -col.
lectpr, In checking up' the Government order
blanks of one of the largest wholesale drug
firms ot this city.
The Goernment order blanks show that
within the last few weeks this Philadelphia
house has shipped to Canada 2S00 ounces
of heroin and 2300 ounces of morphine at
the wholesale price of $7 per ounce. That
would make a total of $32,600 received for
the "dope" by the Philadelphia firm.
Evidence that a portion of the consign
ment wjs smuggled back to Philadelphia
oer the Canadian border by agents of the
"dope" syndics' was furnished when agents
under Colonel ' each discovered several bot
tles of the consignment In circulation In the
Tenderloin. These bottles of "dope" bore the
labels of the Philadelphia firm. The "dope"
was being retailed by peddlers In the Ten
derloin at (48 per ounce.
The Philadelphia firm, according to the
Internal Revenue Department of this city,
acted within the law In making the ship
ment to Canada. The order blanks
were filled In properly and met the legal
requirements In every way.
Acting under orders from United States
District Attorney Francis Fisher Kane?
R. II. Oyler, special agent of he Internal
Revenue Department at Washington, re
turned to this city yesterday to take charge
ot the "dope" situation In Philadelphia.
Mr. Ojler Is considered one of the most
capablo men In the department He has
Just completed n two months' Investigation
of the narcotic drug situation in New Or
leans and Detroit In New Orleans he
brake up n ring of "dope" smugglers who
were smuggling 20,000 grains of heroin Into
that city weekly, and he caused tho arrest
of a druggist who had sold 4049 ounces ot
morphine
QUICK. NEWS
VST. LOUIS 100 0
PHILLIES 0 110
Watson and Gonzales; Mayer nnd Killefer.
ATHLETICS.. J 0 00 0
CLEVELAND.. 0G0 0
'Nabors and Piclnlch; Gould and Deberry.
"
4
NATIONAL LEAGUE
PITTSBURGH ....Q
BROOKLYN O
O
O
o
o
-.
,
v
SMALL SAMARITANS RAISE FUND FOR PARALYSIS VICTIMS
SlHiHB jSk
, te jjjk I ' ' H j w ., ' i f'm
L ' -I '' (It LI ; ' rsrVi : v'i
PTW- I M '011' . !r'lETT - ,.
B ' Mil im?m J --M----------t. - J K-liMll-t--l
H jrnHrwi A"t HH' i -BV H
-----ff1----------K -B wl S; I !l I F V--H
oB H LJPB I Hr' H
HIK8S53 W
r D i2S - ij
Thcsp little girls were bo nffected by stories they heard of the sufferings of poliomyelitis victims they
organized themselves into a band. Then they made upand sold smnll articles, which brought them a total
of 510, nil in, nickels, pennies nnd dimes. This sum they sent to Emergency Aid headquarters to be used in
making things easier for paralysis convalescents. Lo ft to right, they nre Francis Sarvlnsky, Jennie Cutler,
Anna Schlossberg, Clara Berstcin, Lillie Lashinsky, Bella Ilcrshovitz and Rebecca Weirs.
FOOD VENDERS FINED
FOR EXPOSING WARES
Fifty Street Dealers Netted in
Extensive Raid on, South
Fourth Street. '
Fifty street merchants, venders of fruit;
cakes, meat and other foodstuffs, were ar
rested today In a raid along Fourth street
between Soyth and Catharine, conducted
by physicians nhd sanitary Inspectors.
When tlejroseeutors arrived In the neigh,
borhood, notorious .for lolatlpns of tha san
itary laws, they found but ons policeman,
and, unwilling to await the arrival of mors
from 'the statlorrliouse, raided tbo accused
men themselves.
t wa.s one of the largest wholesale ar
rests eer made In this city In so short a
time and ths majority of tha defendants
Lwera forctd to pay a fine of 110 and z.eo
l costs. They were taKenj ueiora Magis
trate Baker, in his offloa at Fifth and Tas
ker straits, protesting their Innocence in
a dosen different tongues.
A few n w," stand? on the pavement
were jureetea, Init the majority ot the
prisoner were pcart ywr, whoee
wagona ataaJ In the street, Aa .easfe ot
the tatter wM aelae be wa tore to. s4an4
la UMi
Wh- the Uaf m as-aiilats pwfceaK
IpiiiOla M ataih-trat rt aw kecua.
.rfr".
CAMDEN LABOR QUITS
AS PREACHERS TRY TO
HELP ON TABERNACLE
Enthusiastic and Clad in Over
alls, Ministers Run Afoul
Union Rules Preparing for
Lyon Campaign
DISPUTE SOON SETTLED
Twenty-five carpenters at work on a
tabernacle In Camden, where the Rev Mil
ton Lyon, evangelist, w)l cohduct services
next month, went on strlko today because
a committee of ministers Insisted upon help
ing them tn the construction of the building.
The walkout was of short duration, how
ever, aa the ministers, called ''scabs" by the
carpenters, after a five minutes' conference,
agreed to surrender to. the workmen and to
abandon their Intentions of working on the
structure. When the ministers left tha lot,
the carpenters returned to work and prom
ised to contribute to the evangelistic fund
tor the conduct of the services.
The meohanlo are employee of Joseph
O'liara, building oontraoter, Tbey are
urlon men, and under the earpenUra' union
ruted no ''outeWers" oouM work on the
Miaee job with. Ufa. Mr. O'Ham explained
the aituMlen. m the pastors appeared on
the Held this morning.
Hut the -Urgysoeo wire than 1st evereila.
AMERICANS IMPERILED
IN RIOTS AT4(AVALA
Bulgars Massacre Inhabitants,.
United States Citizens in
Grave Danger
ATHENS, Sept 14.
, Americans are In grave danger at the
Greek port of Kavala, now occupied by Bul
garian troops, as a result ot serious riots
that nave broken out in the city, Uul
gar'lans and Turks are massacring ths In
habitants. A number of business establish
ments have been pillaged. A heavy guard
has been placed about buildings owned by
American tobacco Interests and connecting
stores valued at several million dollars. It
Is Impossible to ascertain whether any
Americana are Included among tha dead
apd wounded.
SALONICA, Sept. K. British and Rua
irian wai ships today bombarded the heights
and a reek forts at Kaala occupied by the
Bulgarians.
Unofficial reports senfe a mareacra Is In
progress Ira' the town Itself, Turks and Bul
garian massacring the Inhabitants.
8amii Untormywr Operated On
TONXMUL N, T.. 8pt .JSamuel
Untennyer was operated on yesterday or
InteeilaeJ. trouMe following a sudden
aertesa attack, it mi learned today. Tho
operation m performed by Doctor JaW
bum. a Now Yentf weetaJlnt It m mav,
newnoat t IMmurer dosm today Apt U
W y " W BW4el aslBHP 4B
TODAY'S RACING RESTTT.Tcs
First Montreal race, maiden two-year-olds foaled In Canada,
purse ?500, 5 1-2 furlongs Tea Cup, 112, Pickens, ?4.S0, $2.60,
92.CO, won; Bavarde, 112, Robinson, $2.60, $2.60. second; Wish
away, 100, McAtee, $4.00, third. Time, 1.00 1-5.
Second Montreal 'race, purse $500, claiming, two-year-olds, 0
furlongs-Hhymer, 108, Robinson, 6.20, $3X0, $3.00, won; Grati
tude, 05, luke, $22.50, $0.50, second; Great Dolly, 100, Parrlucton
$3.G0, third. Time, 1.13 3-5.
Flist Havre do Grace race, three-year-olds and up, selling, 6
furlongs-Little Dipper, 102, J. McTajjgart, $26.20, $0.00,' $4.40,
won; Shoddy, 112, Schuttlnger, $3.30, $2.00, cecond; Palanquin, 112
Troxler, $3.10, third. Time, 1.13 4-5.
BUSINESS BOOMS IN WALL STREET
NEW YORK, Sept. 14. Wall street experienced the greatest
day's trading today since tie McKinley boom times of 1838 to 1001.
The demand for stocks was so large that brokers failed to execute
many otders at stipulated prices. The million-shoie mark in trading
W88 passed at midday. Many new high, records were established.
ALFONSO HALTS WAR REPRISALS ON PRISONERS
MADItlD, Sept. 14. Announcement was mode today that King; Alfonso, after
long negotiations, had succeeded in effecting an agreement among tho belligerent
nations to suspend reprisals upon prisoners of war. '
RUSSIANS LET TURK SICK FREEZE, SAYS WOMAN
BERLIN, Sept. 14. Two carloads of Turkish prisoners suffering from typhoid
Were left last winter by tho Russians to freeze to death, according to the Polish
newspaper Kray. sajs tho Overseas News Agency. The newspaper rniotea Mrs.
Mary Bentkowska an 'authority for the story. Tho Turks wero left In the cars
In an open camp near Snmnnn for two weeks. When the Turks were all frozen
the bodies were ImVued.
CITY'S TREASURY BALANCE IS $16,074,457.18
The weekly statement of City Treasurer William McCoach shows that the re
celpts amounted to $177,004.47 and the payments to $684,408.27, which, with tho sum
on hand Inst week, not Including the sinking fund account, left a balance of $16
074,457,18 at the close of business last night.
U. S. NOT YET SATISFIED WITH RUSSO-JAPAN TREATY
WASHINGTON, Sept. 14. The State Department this afternoon announced
that In response to America's demand for an explanation, of the Russo-Japanese
secret treaty recently entered Into both those Governments have assured the United
States that the "open-door" policy in the Far East has not been Infringed upon.
It is admitted, however, that further Information concerning the treaty will be
sought before this Government Is satisfied.
FEDERAL INVESTIGATION OF MILK INDUSTRY STARTED
WASHINGTON, Sept. 14. The first public hearing in tho Department of Agrl
culture's nntlon-wldeinvestlgatlon Into the milk industry began here today when
Maryland and Virginia dairymen told the Investigation committee that dairying
conditions were ruinous.
AMERICAN MERCHANTS CONFER ON TRADE EXPANSION
WASHINGTON, Sept 14. Plans for the organization of a conference of Amer
ican merchants and manufacturers to conduct the United States campaign in the
war for the world's trade, which will follow the European war. are under considera
tion by officials of the Department of Commerce.
HINDENBURG GIVES KAISER A "CALL-DOWN"
ROMB. Sept. 14. The Agenzla Llberta states that Field Marshal von Hlnden
burg has curbed Emperor William's habit of giving military commando by advising
him to confine his activities to visiting the wounded and delivering speeches.
SALE OF LOUVRE MASTERPIECES TO U. S. PROPOSED
PARIS, Sept. 14. America, bids fair to, become the home of many of the master
pieces 'now hanging In the Louvre and Luxembourg museums. The sale of these
gems In the world of art has been proposed by Urbaln Colder, prominent French
publicist, to restore Prance's trade balance with America.
CARRANZA ASKED TO SPARE AMERICAN DOOMED TO DIE
MEXICO CITY, Mex., Sept. 14. The American State Department has asked
that the death sentence Imposed upon Harold E. Elton be commuted to twenty
years' Imprisonment. Elton, an American mining engineer, was tried in Ooxaca
on a charge of aiding the reactionaries. A month ago. at tho request of the
United States, General Carranza postponed tho execution.
Evening Ledger Circulation
For 'Six Months)
Daily Ayerage fer Marfh, 110,721
' Daily Average iTor April,
Daily Average for May, 122,011
Daily Average for June, 125,808 " '
Daily Average for July, 121,H
Daily Average for August, 117,856
, . Tk'lywoi!! tew rprmt afhti ml paid oircula
toft of Om nwppr, ekmimtitng o fttmyUd mud irt
NI&HT
EXTRA
PRICE ONE (MffT
SEVENTY AFTER
POLITICAL ALLY
OF 'HIGHER-UPS'
Intimated Minor Leader la
Tn.n A Jl.. i. J? Ti L
vc.uu xiujiutunb ox jjireubur r
Wilson's Ward
SENATOR MAKES THREATS
Funds Needed to Prevent
Wholesale Poll Frauds
rpiIE Committee of Seventy needs
$7500 to carry on the work of ex
posing fraud in registration.
In an nppcnl for funds tho com
mittee expresses the hopo of receiv
ing henrty co-operation.
It is pointed out that prosecutions
hnve been brought ngninst fifteen
defendants for violations of the
primary act.
It is announced that warrants will
soon be issued for many of tho
offenders.
;
Additional arrests In the Committee of
Seenty's city-ulrie crusade against false
registration loomed up as certainties today,
when detectUcs were sent out with a, war
rant for a politician whose arrest, It was
said, would lead to the arrest of men
higher up.
Intimations that the man in question was
a Vare follower In tho Twenty-sixth Ward,
the stronghold of Director of Public Safety
Wilson, brought forth a warning from Sena
tor Edwin H. Varo. Should the threat be
carded out, he told reporters, ho would Issue
a statement attacking the motives of the
Committee of Scicnty,
The identity nnd political affiliations ot
tho man In question were withheld. It waa
said, hoveor, that although he personally
was of not much political weight, taking
him Into custody would open up menues of
Information that would enable the Commit
tee of Seventy to carry the attack on fraud- j
ulent registration to the cry thresholds of '
political leaders.
SEVENTY TO PnESSTItOBn
E. D. L. Itonch, secretary of the Com
mittee of Seventy, today called upon the
city committees ot the several political
parties to furnish lists of otcrs registered
on tho first registration day. Should the
registrars, who ordinarily hold the lists un
til registration is completed, refuse to com
ply with the demand, the work of the Com
mittee, of Seventy will be delayed until
after the last registration tfay, October 7.
It Is the plan of the Committee of Seventy
to obtain the lists Immediately, so that Us
probe of fraudulent registration may be
pressed.
ORGANIZATION AGOG
Belief that the Committee of Seventy
would causa more arrests caused quit a
stir In Organization Republican ranks, fol
lowing the arrest of former Policy Lieuten
ant John -A Woods, Select Councilman
William J, Harrington and Common Coun
cilman Daniel Cahlll, both of the Fourth
Ward.
.Friends of County Commissioner Moore,
who la one of the political lieutenants la
the Penrosrf-McNIcho! wing of the Organ- .
Izatlon, charge that action of the Committee
of Seventy may be credited to the influence
of the Vares,
It Is conceded that Woods did not regis
ter or ote In West Philadelphia or from
any other than the South street address
during tho period covered by the affidavits
sworn to by Leon Schwartz, formerly ot
404 South street, on which the three war
rants were Issued, The farmer lieutenant
takes the position that he was entitled t
ote from the place of his choice under the
law nnd that he had no thought ot shirk
ing responsibility for his acts.
Councilman Harrington declared that
"Schwartz either lies or Is mistaken whea
he says that I had anything to do' 'with
Aiding or abetting Woods to register or
vote In the Fourth- Ward." Mr. Harrington
disclaimed any knowledge of the facts, Ie
admitted that he knew both Wood and
Cahlll well, but did not even krtow whether
Woods voted Jn the ward, "He may have
claimed a residence In the seventh dlvtele
ot the Fourth Ward, but If he did I bad m
knowledge of such a claim," said the ac
cused Councilman.
HEARING NEXT WEDNESD-AY
The three men will appear before Magis
trate Imber at 12 o'clock next Wedne4ay,
to answer the accuatlon of the Committee
of Seventy. They are accused of false regie-,
tratlon, perjury and false noting at the
primary election In J01B. Woods wrs fct '
that time lieutenant of ths second an4
Christian streets police station,
All three hae been staunch supporters o
County Commissioner Ilobert J. Meet
whose political leadership In the Fourth
Ward was wrested from him at the Ma
primaries by the Vaies, when they put
Senator Samuel Balus In political command.
Harrington Is a compare, clerk in the
i.llco of Register ot Wills ghxban. and
Cahlll Is an Inspector In the PejirUnent of
Weights and Measures -
Sc!4rtz who twv? makes his home" in
ltoxborouth (.ts forth in his affidavit thi '
Woodn IIKgally registered a ad voted trM
(Olitlnues tht HarrlngtoH and CakUl
to him an! Vrpmlned hint itroteeUo
immunity in c- ne go nte 'trouktte
IKrmutlng Weed to ruaier aod -r4l
ins noue.
After MiKMmetaa the arrests of th 1
men tfce ctmaiHtee of Seventy said th4vt1
ram were m tuna to Mas arret f ,
uci-iii uH.jmnu-r rnnrpes ana tsut
woui ue pervea wtiatu tive neat few i
Half a, aeere ot University Modal
gaged by Ocar-si John R. K.
w stdrud work yeMerd-y for the
Mnltte of Seventy In Hut uau r v
the Thirteenth aod Fourtwiith Wn
eeeeraui jr taare ure any rraudul
tratloos, reported today that tbey
Invest If ted early In Ih day
Bocae ot these i-uiijod wt were i
urea rrwn niutiuun .dtiieama. tk
caew. ! RiareMui tUn C
fwnff wm need kwukiu!
BiJs flHePHC-i f " "p
JZJBS&i
V
M
Til, ilitti -J ifc.i in rktiini i
t,- .. , . ..Amw. .
