? ?
WEATHER.
Overcast weather, with probably
showers tonight and tomorrow; some
what cooler tomorrow; variable winds.
Temperature for twenty-four hours
ending.2 p.m.: Highest. S4. at 4:45 p.m.
yesterday: lowest. 65. at 5 a.m. today.
Full report on page 5.
CLOSING NEW YORK STOCKS PAGE IS.
"From Press to Home
Within the Hour"
9 worm Net Mentk of A?f?at.
1111, Dally ATcrtfe, 74,969t luiay* 55.712.
No. 29,441.
- WASHINGTON, D. C., THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 1916-TWENTY-TWO PAGES.
ONE CENT.
PRESIDENT STUDIES
For First Time Gives Detailed
Consideration to Plans
for Re-Election.
BURLESON AND McADOO
CONFER WITH TUMULTY
Decide to Pay Greater Attention to
Horthwest States?Finance Com
mittee Eeport Causes Hope.
LONG BRANCH. N. J.. September 14.
??President Wilson today for the first
time grave detailed consideration to his
campaign for re-election. In the ex
ecutive offices at Asbury Park he went
over reports from political leaders in
various states and began mapping out
his plans for the next two months.
Postmaster General Burleson, one of
Mr. Wilson's chief political advisers,
is at Spring Lake, near here, visiting
Secretary McAdoo. and this morning
" the two cabinet members went over
the political situation with Secretary
Tumulty.
As a result of the conferences it
was indicated that greater attention
would be paid to the campaigns in
Oregon. Washington. Utah and Califor
nia. because of reports received by ad
ministration officials leading them to
believe democratic prospects in those j
states are excellent.
Further optimism came with the re
ceipt of a report from the finance com
mittee of the national committee that
from $5,000 to $3,000 a day is being re- j
ceived in small contributions.
Several Trips Discussed.
While the President Tfrill make no
final plans for leaving here until fur
ther developments in the illness of his
sister, Mrs. Anne Howe, several trips
? away from Shadow Lawn were dis
cussed tentatively. Mr. Wilson will go
by automobile September 26 to Prince
ton. N. J.t to vote in the democratic pri
maries.
The President visited the executive
offices for the first time today, motoring
over from Long Branch.
Several thousand persons crowded
the streets around the executive offices
and cheered the President whenever he
appeared Most of the nearby build
ings were decorated with flags.
Not Going to New Mexico.
Mr. Wilson derided he would have to
cancel a tentative engagement to go to
Albuquerque. N. M.. early in Octcfcej
formally to open a dam there. He will
see Chairman McCormic^k of the demo
cratic national committee Monday.
I>uring his visit to .the offices today
the President signed a large nujnber of
commissions of postmasters and army
and navy officers and discussed with
Postmaster General Burleson several
recess appointments of postmasters
which will be made soon.
The President also took up the selec
tion ? of members for the tariff com
mission. the shipping board, the rail
road board and workingmen's compen
sation board created by Congress in
the last days of the session.
The President found, on his return
yesterday from New London, requests j
for engagements from many political
leaders, but he arranged for none. . He
ha* been informed that Mrs. Howe can
hardly live another week and is holding
himself ready to return to New London.
MILE-A-MINTJTE MURPHY HURT i
Bicycle "Cop," Who Earned Title,
Collides With Kotor Track.
NEW YORK. September 14.?Charles
M. Murphy, the policeman who earned
the nickname of "Mile-a-Minute Mur
phy" riding a bicycle paced by a loco
motive, is in a hospital here with his
. left leg fractured and his left knee
broken in two places. Murphy, who has
had miny narrow escapes from death,
having been buried in quicksand, hit by
an aeroplane and run over by an auto
mobile. collided with a motor truck
while on a motor cycle last night, and
was thrown to the street. It was said
that his left leg probably will be too
? tiff for riding hereafter.
Seventeen years ago Murphy won his
sobriquet of "Mile-a-Minute" by riding
at that rat#- on a board track between
the rails of the Long Inland railroad
behind a train. It it saLd that he won
1,800 prizes as a bicycle racer.
TO 0RGAHIZE HAITI POLICE.
Thirty-Five Marine Corps Officers to
Do Dnty With Constabulary.
Thirty-five officers of the United
State* Marine Corps have been de
tarhen from present dutieB in this
country an<i elsewhere and ordered to
Hail!, .'or duty with the Haitian con
Htaiiuiarv orKaniz*>d under the terms of
tne new treaty between the United
States and Haiti
Maj. S. I). Butler. I*. S. M. C.. will
have command of the constabulary. He
will b* assisted by the following offi
cers of the same corps: Maj. H. L
Roosevelt, acting quartermaster; Capts.
A. S. Williams. J. K. Tracy, R. O. Un
derwood, G. M. Kinca'le, P. F. Archer,
acting quaYtermaster; C. B. Vogel. Cal
houn Ancrum and J R. Horton. arting
quartermaster; First Lieut*. C. A. Lutz,
W. W. Buckley. K. A. Ost^rmann, John
Dixon. John Marston, 3d; C. H. Wells.
A Vnnd^rgrift. H L Parsons. N. A.
Eastman. T. S. Clarke and C. G. Sin
? lair, and Second Lieut*. R. K. Brum
)<auKh. J. L. Doxey, J. A Gray. Archi
Tal.l Young. \. E Stack, H. P. Torrev.
1 E Fagan, jr.; B. C. Murchison. A. H.
Turnage. G. L Davis, D. H Miller, R
O B. Burwell. De Witt Peck and O. E.
O'Neill
PLEAS ARE OVERRULED.
ii
Frank S. Monnett and Jacob C. Tay
lor Had Accused Prosecutors.
NEW YORK. September 14.?The pleas
of Frar k S. Monnett. former attorney
genera.) of Ohio, and Jacob C. Taylor,
president of labor's National Peace Coun
cil. that prejudicial conduct by govern
ment prosecutors brought about their in
dictment here were dismissed today by
United States Judge Hand. Monnett and
Taylor and others were accused of vio
lating the Sherman law by fomenting
strikes in munition works and on ocean
steamship piers
The defendants, in their plea* asking
that the indictment be quashed, alleged
misconduct by H. Snowt'en Marshall.
United States district attorney here, and
Raymond H. Safarty. his assistant, dur
ing the grand jury investigation.
Sustaining the government's contention
that this Inquiry was impartial. Judge
Hand ruled that Monnett and Taylor had
presented no evidence to the contrary.
It was indicated that defendants will
NEW ENGLAND SOLID
EON REPUBLICANS
They Assert That Not Even
Connecticut Is Fight
ing Ground.
MASSACHUSETTS IS SURE
IF VOTE IS BROUGHT OUT
Negligence 011 Election Day Only
Danger?"Cy"' Sulloway Has
Hard Fight to Come Back.
BY N. 0. MESSENGER.
NEW YORK, September 14.?
In chalking up the political map
of the eastern section of the coun
try, all New England is now of
whatever hue that is used to
designate republican territory,
and harmonizes with tlie color
scheme of the great northwest at
this time. The political carto
graphers were but waiting for
Maine to fill in and now that is
done.
Massachusetts, It is generally con
ceded, will go heavily republican, the
estimated majorities ranging: all the
way from 50.000 to 100,000, dependent
upon the interest shown by the voters
in going to the polls. New Hampshire
and Vermont are solidly republican, as
is Rhode Island. While democratic
managers claim that Connecticut is
fighting ground, republican investigators
who are keeping a careful tab on con
ditions report to their headquarters that
the state is safely republican.
Overconildence Only Danger.
In Massachusetts the situation might
be called "lopsided," and so much sj
that the republicans feel that It will b?i
necessary to do something later to stir
the voters to come out on election day.
The only danger in sight would be one
of possible overconfldence on the part
of the republicans, leading to negligence
on election day.
The progressives ill Massachusetts
long ago returned to the republican
party. Their sometime leader, Charles
Sumner Bird, helped in Maine last week
to bring in the lagging progressives
there. Mathew Hale, the only bull
moose holding out. was at democratic,
national headquarters here yesterday,
conferring with Chairman McCormick.
He realizes that the bull moose support
of the democratic ticket in Massachu
setts will be of negligible effect.
Next week's primaries in Massachu
setts for the selection of candidates 18
largely a cut-and-dried affair in advance.
Gov. McCall is unopposed for the nomi
nation for governor. The democrats
have two aspirants for what promises
to be an empty honor, since Gov. Mc
Call's re-election seems assured. Gen.
Charles H. Cole has the backing of the
democratic machine. Fred W. Mans
field is supposed to be the favorite of
the labor element.
Senator Lodge to Be Chosen.
Senator Lodge is unopposed for the re.
publican senatorial nomination, while
John F. Fitzgerald ("Honey Fltz," they
call him), is the democratic candidate.
Senator Lodge's re-election is conceded.
It is estimated by some that he will run
far ahead of the state ticket. It is said
that many democrats will vote for him
In November, by way of tribute , to his
services to his state in his long sena
torial career.
Mr. Fitzgerald, it is said, does not ex
pect election, but is looking forward two
years hence when Senator Weeks comes
up for re-election, "cinching'* his own
nomination with the ^ght he makes this
fall. ,
In New Hampshire there is but little
interest in politics outside the contest
over the governorship and the fight in
"Cy" Sulloway's congressional district.
The republicans put up Henry M. Keyes.
a wealthy man, for their gubernatorial
candidate, and the democrats named
John C. Hutchins. The state is regard
ed as safely republican on the presidency
and the governorship.
'?Cy*' Sulloway Has Fight On.
"Uncle Cy" Sulloway, however, has a
real fight on his hands. He had a con
test for the nomination in the first place,
but beat his opponents out on that hand
somely. The democrats nominated War
den Woodbury, a kinsman of I-evl Wood
bury. whom Thomas H. Benton called i
"the rock of New England democracy." j
Mr. Woodbury is popular, young and en
I ergetic. and is going after Mr. Sulloway
in lively fashion.
The district is close, the vote in 1914
for representative in Congress being:
Republican. 20.657: democratic. 19,140;
! progressive. 971, and socialist, 561.
Tne issues in New Hampshire of the
democrats are "The President kept us
out of war" and general prosperity, the
latter expected to lead to indisposition
on the part of the voters to make a
change. The operatives in the largest
t cotton mills in the state have received
increased wages and are in a contented
i frame of mind. The republican issues
are the tanff and the ordinary "run
j of-mill" platforms of the party. The re
| publicans expect to carry the state be
cause it is normally republican and the
! progressives are back.
To Sift U. S. Control of Utilities.
CHICAGO, September 14.?Chicago
will be the seat of a thorough investi
gation of government ownership and
control of railroads, telegraph lines,
express companies, river and ocean
transportation and other public utili
ties. beginning November 20, Senator
NewlancJs of Nevada announced in an
address before the Chicago Chamber of
Commerce yesterday. ?
In deference to the
wishes of many of. its
readers, The Star will
not print advertise
ments of intoxicating
beverages hereafter.
? ^
NEW YORK STRIKE
HEADSCQNFIDENT
Believe They Will Win Despite
Steady Increase in Car
Service.
TRACTION OFFICIALS SEE
END OF THE TROUBLE
Assert Many of Former Employes
Are Returning to Work?Accident
Ascribed to Greased Rails.
NEW YORK. September 14?Despite
the maintenance of regular schedules
on the subway and elevated lines of the
Interborough Rapid Transit^ Company
and the gradual restoration of service
on the surface lines, leaders of the
striking street railway employes de
clared today they were far from being
defeated. They hinted that the danger
of a "sympathetic" strike is not yet
over.
Following a parade and demonstra
tion by the strikers, the question of a
| "sympathetic'' strike will be discussed
|at meetings of the Central Federated
' Unions of Brooklyn and Manhattan.
'Strike leaders predict that resolutions
favoring a strike among trades allied
with the street railway employes will
I be adopted. Whether the strike will
actually take place, however, will de
jpend on the individual votes of the
union, it is asserted.
Traction officials announced today
that service on the subway and ele
vated roads was better than normal,
while service on most surface lines was
from 2."> to 40 per cent cent below nor
mal. The railway companies bay i? is
no longer necessary for th?m to hire
strikebreakers, claiming: that hundreds
of their former employes have returned
to work.
Ten Thousand In Parade.
There were approximately 10,000 strik
ing motormen, conductors and sympa
thisers in the parade, which began in the
forenoon and ended shortly after 1 o'clock j
at Union Square, where addresses were |
delivered by the strike leaders. The
rry?n marched without music, all carry- j
ing American flags. The parade was in
six divisions, and was led by Hugh
Frayne, state organizer of the American
Federation of Labor, and William B.
Fitzgerald, general organizer of the street
railway men.
I^arge delegations from the West
Chester cities of Yonkers, Mount Ver
non and New Rochelle were in line
carrying banners which read:
"This is not a sympathetic strike?
the companies want, to destroy the
union. We want no 'master and serv
ant' contract. We call that slaverv.
We want to be free."
Ten Passengers Injured.
Five trolley cars came together in a
series of rear-end collisions oi* West
chester avenue In the Bronx today and
ten passengers were injured, * one se
riously. The accidents occurred at the
foot of a steep incline, and the car j
crews, who said they were strike
breakers, claimed the rails had been
greased so that the brakes would not
hold.
Mayor Mitchel Has No Plan.
Mayor Mitchel admitted that the had
no plan which promised any settle
ment of the strike. Suggestions to
grant a franchise to a motor omnibus
company, or to ask the governor to call
a special session of the legislature to
enact a compulsory arbitration law,
were rejected by the mayor.
Officials of the transit companies per
sisted In their refusal to submit their
side of the dispute to arbitration, and
asserted that the service of the sur
face lines is being increased daily by
the employment of. strikebreakers.
Nevertheless the elevated and subway
lines and steam railroad transportation
between Manhattan and Westchester
continues greatly congested.
Confident that they had available
enough men to enable them to carry
through a successful siege against the
union, tne New York Railways Com
pany. operating many surface car lines,
has dismissed the employment agencies
which have been engaging strikebreak
ers, and more than 1,000 men employed
to take the places of the strikers have
been discharged. The company officials
said they had enough men to operate
the elevated and subway lines, but not
enough to man all the surface cars.
The night service on surface lines con
tinues to be suspended.
REPORT VILLA AT GUERRERO.
Dispatches From Namiquipa Say
Bandit Is Forty Miles Away.
FIELD HEADQITARTERS, American
Punitive Expedition in Mexico. Sep
tember 13 (via wireless to Columbus,
| N. M.)?The best information at hand
(at the American headquarters places
Villa at Guerrero, some forty miles be
| low Namiquipa.
Seizures of horses and supplies
| from tne Mexican people by the
constitutional garrison in the region
' which the punitive expedition cleared
| of bandits have been reported to the
! American headquarters. None but Mex
j icans pre said to have suffered from
| theee high-handed methods, which, ac
| cording to the reports, have seriously
i interfered with the restoration of
prosperity and order in these districts.
Attack on Chihuahua Feared.
SAN ANTONIO, Tex., September 14.
Gen. Bell at El Paso today reported to
Gen. Funston that he has reports that an
attack on Chihuahua City by Francisco
Villa was feared by the Carrancistas. De
facto government troops were being
rushed into the city from the south, it
was reported. Gen. Funston said he did
not know where Gen. Bell got his in
formation. Gen. Pershing's latest dis
patches placed Villa near Guerrero, some
eighty miles west of Chihuahua City. If
Pershing's latest news is correct. Villa is
moving away from and not toward Chi
huahua City.
Officials of the War Department con
tinue to discredit the reports of Villa's
activities In Mexico. A telegram was
receLved today from Gen. Pershing at
Colona Dublan, Mexico, saying:
"Patrols to Santa Clara region report
no indication of Vllllstas. Patrols .by
de facto^roops make same report."
_ i L
NO STANDARD SIZE
FOR A 5-CENT LOAF
Washington Bakers May Put
in Legally Whatever
Amount They Please.
D. C. OFFICIALS POINT OUT
THEIR LACK OF AUTHORITY
?:
Local Bread Makers Say Price of
Flour Has Compelled Them
to Give Less.
y
There is no law existing in the
District to prevent bakers from
baking any size loaves of bread
they please as the standard live
cent loaf. The Washington
baker can shorten or lengthen
"the staff of life" at his pleasure,
cut the weight an ounce or so
every month, and still local con
sumers have no recourse in law
against this form of raising the
price of bread.
Complaints from residents to the de
partment of weights, measures and
markets of the District government
that five-cent loaves of bread weigh
but eleven ounces bring out the fact
that the local bakers are at liberty to
make the!' five-cent loaves weigh what
they please.
Various weighings of the loaves of
various bakeries today revealed that
the loaves vary in weight from eleven
ounces to fourteen ounces, and that the
weight of loaves of bread has probably
been cut ari ounce or so In the last few
months, and the fifteen and sixteen
ounce loaf has not existed in Washing
ton for^eeveral years.
Bakers Blame Price of Flour.
! Local bakers say frankly that they
are "up against it," that the present
high price of flour, shortening and all
the other elements that go to the mak
ing of a loaf of bread, even including
paper bags in which to wrap the
loaves, have doubled in price recently,
and no relief is in sight.
Several of Washington's largest bak
eries have been taken over by other
large bakeries within the last year, and
it is stated today that perhaps eight or
nine of the smaller bakeries of the city
are now contemplating going out of
business, as they are losing money day j
by day. , .. !
Inquiry at the corporation counsel's
office of the District reveals that there j
never has really been a law in the city j
defining the weight of a loaf of bread. !
Justice Sheppard decided, in 1909, in aj
test case brought before him that th?
old ordinance of the corporation of
Georgetown and Washington of 1858
had been repealed by an act of Con
gress of 1871, and as a consequence
there was no law demanding of a baker
sixteen- ounces of bread for 5 cents.
j Conditions Never So Bad.
George M. Roberts, superintendent of
weights, measures and markets, has re
cently received several complaints from
consumers who thought that a loaf of
bread had by law to weigh a pound. He
received by mail the other day from a
purchaser In Virginia a loaf of bread
baked by a local firm weighing but nine
ounces when received at the office of
weights and measures.
Conditions have never been so bad In
the baking trade as they are today in
Washington, one prominent baker stat
ed this morning. Since none of the lo
cal bakers were willing to make a flat
statement as to what course they are
going to pursue, on account of what
they claim to be a loss in general bak
ing: week by week, it was evident from
the conversation of many of the man
agers of local plants that, if the present
high prices of materials keep up, they
may be forced to rednce the weight ofi
the loaves even further. However, allj
seemed to think that this was not to be
done but as a last resource. Each baker
is waiting for some other baker to make
the step.
host f 1,000 in Five Weeks.
A loss of $1,000 in the laat five j
weeks In pies wag affirmed by one
baker of bread, cakes and? pies this
morning. Flour today costs him $8.10
a barrel, with $10 flour in prospect,
whereas a year ago he got his flour
for $4.85 a barrel. * "V
"But flour is only one of many things
in our trade on which the price has
doubled," this baker said. "Sugar has
done the same thing, and all our short
ening has doubled in price. A carload
of the three?flour, sugar and shortening
?will average $1,000 more this fall
than last.
Other Items of Expense.
"Take the question of paper bags," he
continued. "Today we pay $3.75 a thou
sand for the bags we wrap our bread
in, whereas last fall we paid 97 cents a
thousand. And today we can hardly get
the bags at all.
"Baking tins have all gone up. Pie
plates for baking have gone up 100 '
per cent, and the paper plates in which
we deliver pies have risen 40 per cent." I
Many of the bakers are using flour
which they had on hand, it is said, and
when this is gone "they do not know
what they will do." The bakers as
sert that the Washington public gets |
the best flour in the United States in j
its bread, and that many of the largest ;
bakeries have special men In flour cen- j
ters to test every carload of flour that j
is shipped them.
Although there it; no law in the Dis
trict to protect the consumer from
receiving a loaf of bread the size of a
bun for 5 cents, if a baker should choose
to put out a bun-size loaf and call it
a five-cent loaf of bread, the super
intendent of weights, measures, and
markets, Mr. Roberts, is of the opinion
that this condition is wrong.
"There should be a law," he said, em
phatically.
FRANCE-U. S. BODY MEETS.
Committee in Paris to Promote In
dustral and Commercial Relations, i
Paris; September 14.?The France
United States committee, which was
formed recently to promote closer in
dustrial and commercial relations be- i
tween the two countries, held its first
meeting last night and appointed a
managing committee under the presi
dency of G. Ghuisthau, former minister
of commerce.
The committee decided to create five
principal local groups?at Nantes,
Bordeaux, Marseille, Havre and Lyons
?whose object will be to favor im
ports and group freights. The pommit
tee also appointed four subcommittees
as follows: Transportation, headed by
M. Dal Plaz, manager of the French
line; finance, presided over by Baron
de Neuflize, and on materials and pro
paganda. to which will be joined a
subcommittee on touring.
Tennessee Troops Ordered to Border.
SAN ANTONIO, Tex., September 14
Gen. Funston was advised by the War
Department today that two regiments
of Tennessee Infantry have b^en or
dered to the border for duty. He in
tends placing them at Fort Clark, north
of Eagle Pass, and several miles back
from the border, it was said. Tennessee
is the fourth state called on for troops
by the federal government since the
general mobilization. A few weeks ago
the troops of Ohio and Kentucky and
the few remaining in Vermont were
sent to El Paso.
Considering a Border Patrol.
NEW LOMDOlf, Conn.* September 14.
?Serlons consideration Is being given
by the American-Mexican joint com
mission to the Idea of establishing
some sort of an International police or
aentral constabulary along the Mexican
border, It became Umfwn here today.
' >
Insist Upon the Necessity of
Advancing Prices to
"Middle Men."
THINK THEY ARE EXEMPT
FROM CHARGE OF COMBINE
| Assert at Hearing They Do Hot Seek
to Raise the Cost to
Consumer.
Milk producers of Maryland,
Virginia and the District of Co
lumbia gathered in Washington
this afternoon with representa
tives of the Department of Agri
culture and the District of Co
lumbia health department, in the
endeavor to find some way by
which the producers may be al
lowed to raise the price of milk
without coming into contraven
tion of the interstate commerce
laws which forbid combination.
The meeting, which began at 3
o'clock, was held In the office of Judson
C. Welliver, in the Munsey building:,
and those who were present expected
to learn before its adjurnment this
[ aft^noon from Francis G. Caffey, so
licitor of the Department of Agricul
ture, who was asked to be present by
Acting Secretary of Agriculture Vroo
nian, whether the producers can be
considered as excepted under the Clay
ton anti-trust act from the Sherman
interstate commerce law, which forbids
agreements to fix and raise prices. The
Clayton act contains a paragraph
which exempts labor unions, agricul
tural organizations and horticultural
organizations from the operation of the
Sherman law, and the milk producers
who met here this afternoon, who are
members of a committee of the Milk
Producers' Association, declare thai as
dairy farmers they are an agricultural
organization.
Other Officials PreseAt.
Dr. W. C. Woodward, District health
| officer, also was present at the meeting,
I accompanied by R. R. Ash worth, acting
food inspector of the District. From the
Department of Agriculture, In addition to
Solicitor Caffey, there were present W. J.
Spillman, head of the office of farm man
agement of the department, who yester
day announced that he will have experts
make an inquiry as to the present cost of
the production of #milk, as well as B. H.
Rawl. head of the bureau of animal In
dustry, and others.
At the meeting the milk producers out
lined their grievances, declaring that they
are not seeking any opportunity to raise
the price of the milk they produce so far
as the consumer is concerned, and that all
they want is for the "middleman" to give
them a square deal. They declared that
they desire some assurance from legal
officers of the government that they are
acting within the law when they propose
to raise the price of their, product in
keeping with the increased cost all along
the line in dairy production, such as has
been outlined in the newspapers the past
few days.
It was pointed out at the meeting that
the winter schedule of milk prices paid
by "middlemen" to the producers will
become effective October 1. Heretofore
the producer has been getting 22 cents
a gallon for milk, and the producer in
Maryland, Virginia and the District
now wants 24 cen^s a gallon for the
(Continued on Second Page.)
JAPAN AND RUSSIA
SATISFY THE U. S.
\
Assurance Accepted That
Their Pact Does Not Threat
en Open Door in China.
TOKIO MOST EMPHATIC
IN DEFENDING PURPOSES
Foreign Office Declare* Itielf Com
mitted to Policy?Petrograd
Hakes Similar Statement.
Both Japan and Russia have given the I
United States formal assurances that
the new Russo-Japanese treaty does |
not repeal or affect the treaties of 1907
and 1910, in which those nations'
pledged themselves to maintain the in
tegrity of China and the open door pol
icy.
Th* assurances were given to Ambas
sadors Guthrie, at Tokio, and Francis, at
Petrograd, in response to inquiries.
The' State Department today received
from Mr. Guthrie a note on the subject
addressed to him by the Japanese for
eign office, stating in unequivocal terms
that Japan had not for a moment en
tertained an intention of departing
from these policies.
State -Department Satisfied.
Department officials let It be known
that the statements were entirely sat
isfactory, and that inquiries regarding
the new treaty, over which they had
been considerably perturbed, probably
would not be pressed further.
?fhe note resulted from Inquiries made
by Ambassador Guthrie at.Tokio. by di
rection 6f the State Department, re
garding the effect of the new treaty.
A statement, issued today by the
State Department, says:
"This request was transmitted
through Ambassador Guthrie, August
16. An oral response was made at
that time, reaffirming adherence to the
open-door' policy, but the Japanese
government has now most courteously
added, in a note to the ambassador.
I dated September 13. the following as
surance:
Japanese Assurances.
" The imperial government desires to
assure the American government that
the new convention is In no sense de
signed to repeal or modify the provis
| ions of article 2 of the convention con
1 eluded between Japan and Russia on
July 31, 11*07, nor have the tmperifl
government entertained for a moment
any intention to depart from the policy
to which they have avowedly commit
ted themselves respeotlng the mainte
nance or the independence and terri
torial integrity of China as well as the
principle of equal opportunity for the
trade of all nations In that courttry.
"On the contrary, they are as strongly
convinced as ever of the usefulness of
that policy in the interest of the gen
eral peace and stability In the far
east, which they have always very
near their hearts.' "
Russia Repeats Assurances.
The result of similar inquiries made
for the State Department at Petrograd.
regarding the effect of the new treaty,
is commented upon by the State Depart
ment as follows:
"The minister for foreign affairs of
the imperial Russian government In
like manner, assured the American am
bassador. in response to his inquiry
that his government had not withdrawn
from the conventions of 1907 and 1910
but will maintain unimpaired the pro
visions of those agreements, notwith
standing the fact that no mention of
19161" WaS made *n t*le convention of
The treaties of 1907 and 1910, between
Japan and Russia, affirmed China's ter
ritorial integrity and the open-door
policy.
Open-Door Guarantee.
Article 2 of the 1907 treaty, which
was reaffirmed with slightly different
wording in the l!)lo convention, reads:
"The two high contracting parties
recogni2e the Independence and terri
torial integrity of the empire of China
and the principle of equal opportunity
In whatever concerns commerce and in
dustries of all nations in that empire,
and ennage to sustain .and defend the
maintenance of the status quo and re
spect for this principle by all the spe
cific means within their reach."
State Department officials today ex
pressed complete satisfaction with the
unequivocal reply made by Japan and
the statement from the Russian foreign
office. They felt these assurances left
no doubt as to the maintenance of the
open-door policy and reward for Ameri
can interests in China under the terms
or the new Russo-Japanese treaty, al
though its text has not yet been made
public.
Officials expect that American inqui
ries at Tokyo and Petrograd will not be
pressed further, and that a copy of the
new-convention will be forwarded in due
course.
WALTONEN BLAMES 0THEBS.
Positive Onni Talas Was in Plot to
Bob Mrs. Nichols.
IRONWOOD, Mich.. September 14.?
Arthur Waltonen, accused of participa
tion in the murder of Mrs. Elisabeth
Nichols, wealthy New York widow, and
who is today en route to New York city
in the custody of detectives, declared
before he left here last night that
"there were others who would have to
take their medicine."
He was positive that Onni Talas, now
serving a life sentence in Sing Sing
prison, had a hand in the conspiracy
to murder Mrs. Nichols. Waltonen said
Talas, who was his successor In the
Nichols home, had been bound so as
to make it appear that he had nothing
to do with the affair.
Mrs. Nichols, he reiterated, was not
killed, but died of heart disease, proba
bly superinduced by fright.
Shortage of Freight Cars in Sonth.
BIRMINGHAM, Ala., September 14.?
Shortage of freight cars in southern
cities for the shipment of ores, fruits
and cotton is beginning to assume
serious proportions, according y> re
ports from many large market centers.
In the Birmingham district the short
age Is admittedly affecting the move
ment of coal, pig Iron and pther com
mercial products. According to a re
port from Mobile, the Mobile and Ohio
railroad Is said to be facing the worst
car shortage In years.
1
Height Northwest of Lake Os
trovo Also Seized?British
Withdraw Along Struma.
ITALIANS SUCCESSFUL
NEAR LAKE BUTKOVO
Germans Reported to Have Planned
Offensive Campaign in
Balkans. t
RUMANIANS REPULSE ENEMY
Series of Teutonic Attacks in Do
brudja Fruitless?Sofia Charges
Foe With Grave
Atrocities.
PARIS, September 14, noon.?
Serbians and Bulgarians are en
gaged in violent fighting on the
Macedonian front. The war office
announced today that the Ser
bians had captured Bulgarian
trenches near Vetrenik and a
height northwest of Lake Ostro
vo. An engagement south of th-j
lake is turning in favor of the al
lies.
. The British forces which
crossed the Struma river in Greek
Macedonia last Sunday have been
withdrawn, after having inflicted
heavy losses on the Bulgars, ac
cording to a report sent by the
British press representative at
Saloniki.
Italian troops operating on the
Macedonian front have defeated
and driven back Bulgarian de
tachments near Lake Butkovo,
west of the Vardar, beyond the
Demir-Hissar-D&iran railway line.
A wireless dispatch from Rome says
that at the general council of the cen
tral powers, at the headquarters of the
German emperor, an offensive cam
paign In the Balkans was mapped out.
and that Qermany will send 30u,<NXi men
and Austria 100,00U for this purpose.
Rumanian troops have repulsed a
series of attacks by the Germans an<l
Bulgarians In Dobrudja, the war office
announced today.
Vln the region of Silistrla, on the right
bank of the Danube, fighting Is still
proceeding," the statement says. "The
Rumanians repelled a series of attacks
by Oermano-Bulgarian troops and cap
tured eight light guns."
That the Rumanians attach Im
portance to the Dobrudja operations
is Indicated by the announcement that
Gen. A. Averesco. former Rumanian
war minister, and the kingdom s most
distinguished soldier, who started the
brilliant invasion pf Transylvania, has
been transferred from the northern
front to command in Dobrudja. Gen.
Averesco is another Illustration of the
military leader who has risen from the
ranks, as he entered the Rumanian
army as a cavalryman forty years ago.
Gen. Avaresco's place in Transylvania
has been taken over by Gen. Cralni
keand. who also is a former chief of
the general staff and war minister.
In Contact With Enemy.
The latest Rumanian war office official
statement, issued yesterday, says:
"There have been light skirmishes on
the whole of the north and northwest
fronts. We took 378 prisoners.
"On the south front there has been an
exchange of gunfire all along the Danube,
while in Dobrudja we are in contact with
the enemy on the entire front, with lively
engagements between patrols and advance
''"A detachment of the enemy which had
advanced up the Danube was counter at
tacked and repulsed, leaving In our hands
eight German guns."
Bulgarian Statement.
The latest Bulgarian statement from
Sofia says:
"Along the Danube there was artillery
firing at Tekia, Vidln. Lomorjechovo and
Ivichton.
"In Dobrudja our offensive continues.
Yesterday tMonC-y) our troops entered
Slllstria, being welcomed enthusiastically
by the population The Bulgarian tri
color now floats over Fort Arabtabla
(probably Fort Arabadzllar, near the
Danube half way between Silistrla and
Turtukal). We captured artillery and a
large quantity of material. The enemy
troops retired northeastward and on both
banks of the Danube, pursued by our
cavalry.
Horrible Cruelties Charged.
"The retreat of the Rumanians, Rus
sians and Serbians was accompanied
by the most horrible cruelties, espe
cially on the part of the Rumanians,
against the defenseless population. A
report from the commander-in-chief,
dated September 10. says: 'Since the
first day after the crossing of the
frontier it has been established that
the Rumanian army has committed a
series of Inhumane atrocities which
more and more prove to have been
incredibly bestial.
'Some days before the declaration
of war the Rumanian authorities toojc
all cattle without formal requisition.
When the Rumanians retreated they
formed special detachments for the
burning of Bulgarian villages. The
villages of Clskicy. Altomrovo and
Screbarna and others In the vicinity of
Turtukal and Silistrla are still burn
ing One detachment defeated near
Sansalar September 7 sent a company
with two officers to the village of
Screbarna. All the male Inhabitants
were assassinated during the night.
The streets were filled with the bodies
of Innocent persons, mutilated in the
most horrible fashion. A number of
children were burned in locked houses.
The women and the remaining children
were carried to Silistrla.
"Kan Killed Xarcileaaly."
"On September 9 the men of Allfak
were taken to the bank of tb? Banubj (
fr - -wt,-,,.
