THE ARIZONA- REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAH
8 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, THURSDAY; MOKNING, SEPTEMBER 14, 191X5
8 PAGES
VOL. XXVII, NO. 118
D. BY FHCE
IB OF PER
If
OK
FRENCH REPULSE HEAVY GERMAN
CDUKTEH ATTACKS AND CRPTURE
P0WEHF.UL SYST EH RE TRENCHES
(By Republican Associated Press Leased Wire)
The French north of Peronne are holding tenaciously to the salient thoy
have driven into the German line east of the Bethune-Peronne road near
Bouchavesnes. They hold intact, too. the town of Bouchavesnes and other
points along the line captured in the offensive on Tuesday. Their capture of
a powerfully organized German trench system south of the Lepriez farm
near the road running west from Rancourt to Combles has put Combles in
further jeopardy.
Fighting in the re-ion of Bouchavesnes has been sanguinary. Finding
that the French had cut their line ofcommunication from Peronne north
ward the Germans threw violent attacks aqainst L'Abbe wood and Hill No.
76, south of Bouchavesnes, and re-took both places. The French, however,
returned viciously to the attack and after hard fighting finally drove out the
Germans and kept the ground thev had won. In the two days' fighting more
than 200 Germans were taken prisoner and a large number of guns and ma
chine guns captured. On the British Somme front the situation remains un
changed. South of the Somme heavy artillery Huels betsveen the French and
Germans continue in the region of Vermandovillers and Chaulnes. Repulse of
a German attack near Fleury in the Ve 'up sector i reported by Pans.
Heavy fighting continues all along the Macedonian front but no impor
tant changes are reported. The Ita'-.ns have joined in the fray west of the
Vardar river. Near Lake Butkovo, Rome declares, they have driven Bulgar
ian detachments beyond the Demir Hisaar Doiran road. The Bulgarians say,
however, that the Italians were dispersed in this region with a loss of thirty
men captured. . .
The British across the Struma river south of Lake Takinos have made
no further efforts to advance and in that region there are no developments.
In the Dobrudja reoion of Rumania the central powers are -oing on with
their operations methodically, according to Berlin. In Transylvania the Ger
mans have joined the Austrian near hermannstadt and southeast of Hoetzing
in fighting the invading Rumanians.
In the Carpathians. Russian attacks a'ong the entire frcnt have bean
repulsed, according to Vienna and Berlin. Petrograd says the Russians are
holdina all the prounrl they have won in this reqion.
German aeroplanes sank a Russian torpedo boat destroyer in the Gulf
nf Rioa and atfoked Russian nival forcis in the Else Sea off Constanza,
Rumania. Besides the destroyer sunk, several other hits were observed in
both of the attacks, Berlin says.
i
French Take bouchavesnes correspondent, tne i.erman authorities
PARIS Sept. 13. The French have have ordered the inhabitants to be in
captured' the village of Bouchavesnes, their home before " o'clock in the even
on the Somme front. in aml a11 cafes within a certain area
The official anouncement ' of today . closed,
says that the village, which is in the ! Athens dispatches say that the
region of Combles. was taken from the former Justice M. Dimitraeopulos.
Germans last evening. 'after reaching an understanding with
The French also took by assault a the king, will put his views before the
wood 400 yards east of the road from . entente ministers and let their atli
Pernnne to Bethume. itude determine whether he will accept
On the Verdun front the French ! the premiership,
made progress in the northern part of M. Dimitraeopulos, the dispatches
the Vaux-Chapitre wood. : add, is of the opinion that Greece's de-
The statement says: j parttire from neutrality is the only
"North of the Somme fighting con- remedy for the present international
tinued last evening with distinct sue- situation. He recalls the Greco-Truk-
ress for our arms. The village of lioti-
hevewnes was attacked about eight
o'clock in the evening and carried in
Its entirety by our troops in a brilliant
fight, despite the enemy's resistance. .
He had strongly entrenched himself.
'During the night our infantry or
ganized itself in the conquered posi
tion. The Germans did not attempt
a counter-attack.
"This morning our troops, continuing
their advance eastward, took by assault ,
the Hois L'Abtie farm, situated 600
meters eastward of the Bethune road,
southeast of Bouchavesnes.
"On the right bank of the Meuse
(Verdun) we made some progress in
the north portion of Vaux-Chapitre
wood. Artillery fighting continues
with moderate activity in the Fleury-le
Choenos region. Everywhere else the
night was calm."
BERLIN'. Sept. 13. (By Wireless to
Sayville) The capture by the French
of Bouchavesnes on the Somme front Is
reported In the official announcement
from the war office today. The state
ment adds:
"Last of the Meuse (Verdun front)
attacks made by the French in the
sector of Thiaumo.it and Souville
failed, causing them sanguinary losses."
The repulse of Kussian attacks on a
long front in the Carpathians is an-
nounced by the war orfice today. In
Transylvania German troops have been
brought up to fight the Rumanians.
ATHENS. Sept. 13. French and Ser
bian troops have taken the offensive on
the western end of the Macedonian
front. They have captured the town
of Sorovitz, near Fiorina.
LONDON, Sept. 14. The British
forces which crossed the Struma river
in Greek Macedonia last Sunday have
been withdrawn after having inflicted
heavy losses on the Bulgars, according
to a report sent by the British press
correspondent at Sulonikl.
Because It is alleged the people of
Brussels signalled to a British aviator
who flew over the city last week, says
the Exchange Telegraph's Amsterdam
republican A. P. Leased WireJ
SPOKANE. Wash., Sept. 13. Re
sponsibility for the failure of the
Susan B. Anthony suffrage amend
ment to come to a vote in congress
this year. waB placed on President
Wilkin bv J Frank Manly, the pro
hibition candidate for president In his
address here tonight. This address
wa the first Mr. Manly delivered In
Washington after the arrival of the
coast to oVist "dry" special train
beiring him and Dr. Ira Landrtsh, the
Alee presidential nominee and others
tonight from "White FlRh, Mont.
"For three years," Mr. Hanly said,
"the president and his party have
had unhindered control of every de
partment of the federal government.
Congress has done his bidding. Had
he desired he could lorg since ob
tained the submission to the states
of the Sustn B. Anthony amendment
"It rornes with poor grace now
after three years untrammeled "power,
marked hv no effort, not eVen the
slightest, to obtain congressi inal con
sideration of the suflrage question fo--him
to attempt to consul the women
of the country by the suggestion that
there is -a 'force behind them that
will, beyond all proadventur, be tri
umphant,' and to counsel them that
thev can 'afford a little while to
wait.' The truth Is that the suf
BLAMES WILSON F OR KEEPING
- SUEERAGEIAYEROMCONGRESS
ish war of U7, when Premier Delyan-
ni.s incurred till risks to re-establish
unity in the nation, divided then as
now.
It Is reported that M. Bragoumls,
formerly minister at I'etrograd will be
foreign minister in the Dimitraeopulos)
cabinet.
Lloyd's announced today that the
Dutch steamer Antwerpen had been
sunk.
Tbe rutch steamer Antwerpen was
a vessel of 11.300 tons and was built at
Newport News. She belonged to the
Standard Oil Co. and left Newport
News in ballast on her maiden voyage
tor New York August 24 and sailed
August 21 from Bayonne N. J., for
London on her first trip across the
Atlantic.
The Antwerpen was the first foreign
ship ever built at Newport News Stie
was in command of Captain Herman .
nrsiwi in, woo lormeriy commanded i
the oil tanker America.
The crew of the Antwerpen num
bered about 38. She carried 10,000
tons of refined petroleum and was due
in London yesterday (Wednesday).
PAULS,
Sept. 13. North of th
Somme the French.enlarged their posi
tions opposite combles and stormed
new trenches south of Lepriez farm
nays tonight's war office statement.
he Germans recaptured a farm In
L'Abbe wood and hill No. 76. But both
were retaken by the French who main
tained all their gains on the center and
right. The total captures of yesterday
and today are 200 or 3uo prisoners, 10
guns and forty machine guns.
AMSTERDAM. (Via London) Sept.
14. German newspapers attach pro
found importance to the conference
inow taking place at German eastern
neaoquarters. Those in attendance in
clude the German emperor, the im
perial chancellor. Dr. .v.tTi Bethmann
Hollweg. the chief of staff, Field Mar
shalvon Hindenburg, and the first
(Continued on Page Two)
fragettes have driven him to bay.
Frightened by the possible loss of
ninety-one electoral votes In the suf
frage states, he is simply playing for
..me aim oegging 1 he real issue."
Meetings also were held today at
wnite t-ish, Mont., and Sand Point,
.'.a..... lne r.onners Ferry, Idaho
meeting was cancelled
Many Cities Offer Sites
Republican A. P. Leased Wire!
WAMUN.iTON. Sept. 13.-Offers
of sites for the projected $11.000 000
government armor plate plant' were
made to the navy department nt hear
ings here today l" more than 100
ciues ana rural localities in the mid
die west and the ust. Others will,
..c nr.i.u tomorrow.
, proposal for sale of private
pianis was presented, although reu-
resentatlves of the principal , armor
plate manufacturers were nresent.
Naval officers said tonirht they re -
garded it unlikely that any plant
Seeking Methods to Establish Peace on Mexican Border
OLNEY'S LEAD DWINDLES IN MARICOPA
! SPANNELL INDICTED !
: ON TWO CHARGES I
! EL PASO, Sept. 13. Harry J. j
j Spp.nnell. who was. indicted today
by the grand Jury of Hrewster I
I county on two charges of murder J
i in the first degree for' killing his '
I wife and Lieutenant Colonel M. i
; C. liutler of the Sixth cavalry on
I July 20. while the three were out
I motoring, returned to Alpine, the
j scene of the trasery tonight. As j
in his former trips from the LI i
Paso jail, where he has been 1
closely guarded, his departure was !
kept as quiet as possible by the j
authorities. He returned In the j
custody of Sheriff Walton and
It was 10: 2"j last night when the
local oratorial talent hud nearly ex
hausted itself in holding a crowd of
5. mm which had begun gathering at
the Y. M. C. A. stadium four hours
before. Mr. Bryan's train was half
an hour late but the crowd lingered
and grew. At length there was a
movement through it. Nobody aeemcj
to know why. The movement turned
to murmer and then to a roar to
which was added tbe blast of a hun-dr-il
automobile horns.
The next instant Mr. Bryan Ap
peared on the stand, followed by Gov
ernor Hunt, who hail accompanied
him from the station. The distin
guished speaker was Introduced by
'halrman George A. olney. The firm
office of Mr. Bryan was the applica
tion nf nn emollent to the abrasion
that had been made by too close con'
tact of democrats with one nnolher
during the last lew weeks. The pres
ence of Mr. Olney as chairman of the
meeting, he said was evidence of his
loyalty to the party. He ndded that
i greater draft was always made on
the loynltv of the defeated candidate
than of the successful candidate. "1
upeak from experience," said Mr
Uryan. After further oiling the
wounds of the primary. Mr. Bryan
addressed himself to the democrats of
the state and urged them to mipport
the state ticket as stockholders in the
great concern of democracy.
lie especially urged the support
Mr. Ashursl for. said he. the result
"t me aiaine eieruon is io irome ne-
lemocratlc majority in the senate by
two. On similar grounds he asked the
suppott of Representative Hay-den
Mr Bryan then entered upon a dis
cussion of national affairs, declaring
hat the democratic party, with a
democratic president and with a dem
ocratic majority in both branches or
congress had accomplished within a
short time, more for the country than
had l.een accomplished within a simi
lar period In tile history of the
country.
Mr rtryan briefly warned the wo
nt n voter of the country against the
designs of the rennblican party. He
cast some reflection upon the sin
cerity of Mr. Hughes if" an advocntf
of womr" st'ffrafe. But the only
nroof of his Insincerity wns the state
ment that he himself, while Mr
Hughes Wis governor of New York
hpd made a campaign of tbe emuire
state at M own expense in behalf of
eqtisl suffrage. What this exnenditnr
on the part of the sneaker had to do
with the attitude of Governor Hughe?
on thnt piihlcet was not mnde clear
(Continued on Page Two',
?
I PLAN TO TUNNEL
I UNDER BOSPHORUS
1 BF.RL1N, Sept. 13. (Via London)
I Sept. 14 Construction of a tun
! nel t'nder the Bosphorus is being
j discussed at Constantinople. En
I gineers plans show that the pro
i ject Is feasible and financially
i profitable and its strntegetlc im- ,
I portance is obvious. Earlier pro- !
! Jects for direct communication !
I between the European and Asiatic
I shores of Turkey, inspired by the I
j construction of the Anatollon and
j Bagdad railway, were devoted to
I bridging The Narrows at Rumill !
I Hlssar. . I
I I
n n
Hanger 1'arnett I
IR. BRIAN POURS
DIE ON ITERS
OE DE10CRACY
For Armor Plate Plant
(would l offered for sale, and ex
nresscd the onininn that the govern
ment would begin construction of its
own plant when a satisfactory site
had been selected.
Large delegations. In manv In
stances bended by state officials.
congressmen and presidents of boards
1 flf trade and other organizations, ap-
1 beared to press the claims of New
York. Chicago, Philadelphia, 'Cincln
natl. Birmingham. Savannah. Louis
1 ville, St Iuiis. Brooklyn, Buffalo,
1 Raleigh. Toledo. Cleveland. Pittsburg,
Norfolk, and many other cities.
GOVERNOR II
CARRY COUNTY
BY FEW VOTES
Governor Hunt may carrv Mari
copa county by it small majority, if
tne count in 3. small precincts, miss
imr at the office of the isiard of
supervisors late last night, shows
olney's majority to be dwindling, as
It did in the tally of the 40 precinct
that were entered on the official
sheet yesterday.
With most of Phoenix. Tempe.
Mesa, Glendale and other large voting
divisions on record, olney's majority
had been hacked down to 3t8.
This was the most surprising
feature of the late count.
Clwlo M. Gandy developed strength
as the ccunt proceeded, ard bv The.
Republican s figures on the 40 iire"
clncts the incumbent led L. M. Ijine.v,
his leading opponent, by oT votes.
Judge Lyman had recovered
ground, and had a total of I9:i
while Judge Hawkins registered 1 5 2 r.
J. T. P.one was losing the race for
county assessor to T. M. Burroughs.
the figures being: Burroughs, IGTu,
Bone. 1542.
Wllky continued to be the best bet
for sheriff.
Davis and Stapley led Smith and
Beville by small margins.
The complet count in 40 precincts,
taken from the e'ection books and
"nm idled by The Republican at a late
hour last night, gave the following
results:
Stat Offices
Hunt 1.743
Olney 2.U1
oshorn 2.014
Slmms 1,702
Ketts 2.3SI7
Mlllr I...'.....;' 1,17
County Offices
Hawkins
Lyman
Gandv
I.Hney
Willsy
MacDonnld
Burroughs
..1.52:.
..1.H3.S
..1.14H
..1.111
. .1.1 !2
. . :4
..1.670
Hone 1.B42
Imvls 1,8
Beville 1,4:!4
Smith 1.317
Stapley 1.459
Olney Maiority Less
A private count of .13 preclncta late
list night, not including the big
Glendale and two Important Mesa
precincts, gave olney a figure less
than the earlier count of 4'a) precincts.
His majority had dropped from 3SS
to 27H.
Although no claims were advanced
by Hunt leaders, and no concessions
made by the friends of Olney. it was
generally lielieved among the rank
and file of voters that olnev might
lose Maricopa county1 his tirst best
hope by possibly I11O.
r co.irse Mesa s two missin;? sub
divisions may return a lead for Olney
that will again place him ahead of
his opponent beyond any imssible as
sault on his majority by the returns
from the small'T agricultural pre
cincts.
Practically the entire count last
night gave Charles De Sales Wheeler
a lead of IS votes over P. P. Parker,
the incumbent, for Justice of the
peace In the East Phoenix precinct
Never in the history of the state
have voting counts proceeded so
slowly as in this instance. There
leems to bo little reason for this
fact. Inasmuch as the vote was very
light and the precincts so cut up as
to give no board a great deal to do
Some of the county offices. Including
house of representatives, county at
tomey and assessor, are still in some
doubt.
From Pima County
TVCSON, Ariz., Sept. 14. Twelve
precincts complete in Pima county out
of the twenty-two, including the vote
of the city of Tucson, give as the result
of yesterday's primary:
Democratic
For governor Hunt 835; Olney 58B.
For congress Hayden 503 ; Worslev
'.Continued on Page Two)
Af. Y. Schools
To Reopen On
September 25
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK. Sept. 13. The public
schools of New York City will open
on September 25. This was decided
tonight by the board of education.
There had been a difference of
opinion between federal and city
health authorities as to the wisdom
of opening the schools at the time
set because of the infantile paralysis
epidemic.
The federal officials were pessimis
tic, but Commissioner Emerson de
flared he saw no reason why they
should not oMn nt the time set.
Commissioner Emerson announced
tnat tne total or deaths still was
under 25 per cent of the total num
ber of caset reported. The number
of cases continues to decrease, but
the death rate has Increased during
tne last three weeks, and it is feared
It may go above 25 per cent.
Dr. Charles E. Banks, senior sur
areon of the federal public health ser
vice, announced he was not prepared
to state when it would be safe to
lift the federal inspection here of in-
terstate travel.
ABSENCE OF SOLDIERS
CA USES APPREHENSION
Republican A. P. Leased Wire .
DOUGLAS, Sept. 13. The failure 1
of Mess Sergeant Rogers, H company,
and Private Frank B. Mackey, com
pany E, Second Montana infantry, to
return to tbe regimental camp today,
coupled with indefinite rumors that
they had been killed by Merican sold
iers while in Sonont, caused excite
ment In the Montana camp, two miles
west of Douglas, Rinight. officers and
...in. uom v oionei uononue to mcdi-essed in civilian clothing, and the
privates, used every effort to find Mexican, went out of Douglas lat
some trace of the men and their j Tuesday forenoon to the placer ground
movements. of Rnnehltn twenty mile nnth niwl
Mackev "n!isted in Sao. Montana.
and Rogers in Kulisptll. Private!
O Bilen, company H, brought the first
HUGHES PLANS NEW TRIP
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
ERIDGEHAMPTON. N. Y., Sept. 13.
Cbailes E. Hughes arrive 1 at his
summer home here tonisbt for a four
day's rest from campaign activities.
He will leave New York on Monday
his second trip, which will take
him through the middle west.
Residents of F.ridgehampton wel
comed the republican nominee at the
station. Mr. Hughes went immediate
ly to his summer home. The nom
inee had a lengthy conference with
William P.. Willcox, the national
chalrmanf before he left New York.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO, Sept. 13. Sweeping vic
tories for Governor Edward F. Dunne.
democrat, and former Congressman
Frank O. Lowden, republican, for
their respective parties' nomination for
governor; the apparent defeat of for
mer Senator William Lorimer for a re
publican congressional nomination and
several close fights for congressmen
characterized the Illinois primary
today.
Returns at midnight indicated the
nomination of Governor Dunne by a
plurality over William B. Brinton that
might reach l'lO.Oot). With three
fourths of Cook county in. Dunne had
a plurality of 43.000 In Cook county.
He was running two to one over Brin
ton downstate. Lowden's plurality over
Morton D. Hull of Chicago in the re
publican fight was almost as large. He
had about 30,000 more than Hull in
Cook county and claimed he would win
downstate by 1(10,000.
On the face of incomplete returns
from the sixth congressional district
Ixrimer had been defeated by about
1,000 votes by Arthur W. Fulton.
Shortly before midnight the election
commissioners received a report of
trouble at one of the precincts in this
(Continued on Page Two)
EOMEN AND
DUNNENANIED
IN IEEIN0IS
PRESIDENT RETURNS TO SUMMER
CAPITOL AT LONG BRANCH
Republican A. Leased Wire . from $5000 to $8000 a day is being re
LONG BRANCH, N. J.. SepL 13. ceived in small contributions.
President Wi.Son returned her, , today
from the bedside of his sister. Mrs.
Annie E. Howe, critically in at iNew
London, Conn.
The nresident found requests for en
gagements from many political leaders
but he arranged for none. He has
been informed that Mrs, Howe can
hardly live another week, and is nolo-
ing himself ready to return to New
London.
Postmaster General Burleson ana
Secretary of the Treasury McAdoo
called at the executive office late to
day hut neither saw Mr. Wilson.
Plans for the president to speak In
St. Louis, September 20, and in Balti
more, September 24, and to go to New
Mexico to open a dam early in Octo
ber are being held in abeyance pending
the outcome of Mrs. Howe's illness.
Homer Cummings, chairman of the
speakers' bureau of the nationaMcom
mittee probably will see Mr. Wilson
Monday to discuss these and other in-
vitations.
There were evidences here today that
the republican victory in Maine has led
democratic leaders to work more dili-
gently in other parts of the country,
Administration officials here said they
expected no other result but it is plain
they realize they have work ahead of
them. Encouraging reports from Ore-
gon, Washington and California
reached the executive offices today,
Further ontimism came with the re
ceipt of a report from the finance com-
mittee of the national committee that
report of the men's disappearance. A
quiet investigation was conducted by
regimental officers until late in the
day when the news leaked out.
O'Brien said tonight that he,
Mackey and Rogers were to have gone
with a Mexican halfbreed to see an
old placer mine which the Mexican
claimed contained some very rich
ground, but he was personally pre
vented from accompanying the natty
by military duties. The two soldiers,
West of here' At the retrlmcntai enmn
it was believed the men had been
taken prisoner by Mexiea n sol d iers.
His Second Trip
NEW YORK. Sept. 13. Charles E.
Hughes' second campaign trip will
take him through Illinois. Wisconsin,
Indiana, Ohio, Pennsylvania, New
Jersey and New York, it was an
nounced here tonight. The republican
nominee will leave New York next
Monday, September 18. and will end
the trip at Buffalo, on Saturday night,
September 30.
Mr, Hughes will speak in Milwaukee,
Cleveland, Indianapolis. Cincinnati,
Columbus. Pittsburg and Buffalo, as
Weil ns other cities in the sw elve days,
in which he will campaign.
1ST
ES
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHIHL'AirVA CITY, Sept. 13. Con
stitutional forces under Colonel Chapa
encountered and routed in the Laguna
district a Yillista band, which left be
hind in its flight seven dead and a
number of horses, according to reports
received here today from General Jose
Santos.
The bandits, headed by Eligio P.eyes,
were attacked near San Pedro de las
Colonias. and the report says they held
their ground for nearly four hours.
Among the dead was a Villista major.
A Villista named Mendez, engaged in
propaganda work at Pedricena. has
been arrested by order of General No
voa. Villa is still in the Santa Clara dis-
trict but is carefully avoiding a fight.
accoraing to the latest information re-
ceived here by General Trevino. Peons
in that section who say they have seen
Villa claim that the bandit leader's
condition has been made worse by ex
posure to wet weather and constant
travel. - ...
Seizing Mexican Horses
FIELD HEADQUARTERS AMERN
CAN PUNITIVE EXPEDITION, Mexi
co. Sept. 13, via Wireless to Columbus.
(Continued on Fage Two)
ti tZTZ
I first Ume tomorrow to attend to an
accumulation or official business.
Is Losing Strength
NEWT LONDON. Conn., Sept. 12.
Mrs. Annie Howe. President Wilson's
sister, who is critically ill here, is los-
ing strength, her physicians an
nounced tonight.
I ' :
N
n
Gotham in Grip of Bad
Tie- Up of Surface Lines
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, Sept. 13. The failure
. of Mayor Mitchel and the public ser-
' vice commission today to induce
street railway, officials to arbitrate
differences with their employes, found
this city tonight still in the grip of
the transit strike now iin its sixth day.
Suspension of traffic on alf sufrace
car lines In Manhattan and the Bronx
at night and infrequent cars during
the day has packed subway and ele-
vated lines and caused great ineon-
venience to the traveling public.
Mayor Mitchel said late today tnat
something would have to lie done, and
thai he hoped to devise some means
0
COMMISSION '
CONFERS WITH
GENERAL BLISS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW LONDON, Conn.. Sept. 13.
Suggestions as to what methods shall
be employed to establish peace on
the Mexican border were submitted
today to Major General Tasker H.
bliss, V. S. A., by the American
members of the American-Mexican
joint commission. . The officer's
opinions were sought on su-bjects
ranging from the withdrawal of
American troops from Mexico to the
possibility of creating an Interna
tional police- to guard the border. No
conclusion, however, was reached,
and the commissioners will continue
their conferences with General Bliss
tomorrow. The joint commission to
day dealt wholly with questions
raised by taxation decrees issued by
General Carranza which affect Amer
ican controlled mining properties in
Mexico. An exhaustive study of the
situation was begun.. The Mexican
commissioners explained in detail the
purposes of the decrees, insisting that
thev were designed to promote the
mining industry, not to drive out
merican capital and confiscate its
holdings.
In their conference with General
Bites, the American commissioners
to k under consideration the advis
ability of proposing such a system
of border patrol that a part of the
Mexican, troops now engared in this
duty would be released for the pur
suit of bandits at a distance from
the line. Thty considered, also, the
attitude of mericans living alone;
the border, as reported by General
Bliss ard obtained from that offieet
estimates as to the number of sol
diers necessary to put into effect any
of the plans suggested.
Discussing tne wider aspects of the
commission's work Secretary Lane
said tonight it was probably unique
in the history of international bodies,'
in that it was going into all that
concerned the life of a nation its
economic problems, its political strug
gles, and every phase of government.
It was possible, he said, that no
conclusions would be reached as to
many of the things discussed. He
added, however, that the Mexicans
would have knowledge of the views
held in the United States as a result
of the deliberations while the Amer
ican commissioners were gleaning a
wide knowledge of conditions below
the border.
Even the international responsi
bilities of Mexico were being talked
over. Mr. Lane haid and it was neces
sary that all these things should be
considered in order that an endur
ing government should be set up in
the distressed republic
Complaints of American mining in
terests in Mexico led to the present
investigation. In explaining the de
crees complained of the Mexican
commissioner pointed out that one
of the aires of the government was
to prevent speculative , and unpro
ductive monopolization of mining
lards .The Carranza government, it
was said, virtually hag reversed the
system in operation during the Diaa
regime.
Under the Diaz plan the rate of
taxation on mining claims diminished
in direct ratio to the number of
claims, whereas under the- Carranza
plan the purpose is 4o encourage the
staking of a relatively small nnm
her of claims which actually will lu
operated, and to discourage the hold-
in;i of large, tracts of mining land
simply for speculative pjrposef.
Another series of coraulaints had
to do with the attempt of the Car
ranza government to' compel mer
chants and corporations to accept
paper currency at a rate far In excess
of its cu'rent value. The attention
of the Mexican commissioners was
directed to instances in which mili
tary commanders had, through, de
crees, threatened with death any per
son who refused to accept paper cur
rency at itn par value, and for a sim
ilar offense also had threatened mer
chants with the confiscation of their
property. The Mexican commission
ers pointed out that in so vast a
ovrrry it was humanly impossible
gu.icd against all possible abuses,
u: they laid emphasis on the fact
while" such extreme decrees had
ecu issued by subordinate military
om: anders, the national government
as instantly urged moderation on
.o governments, and that they
had no record . of a -single instance
in which any of these extreme penal
ties had been inflicted. . .
. NORWEGIAN STEAMER SUNK
COPENHAGEN. (Via London) Sept.
14, 2:17 a. m. The Norwegian steam
er Ixindon, 1,247 tons .gross, has been
sunk.
by which all cars would run again.
The mayor's plan to have the boanl
of estimate grant a franchise to the
New York Motor Bus company, per
mitting omnibus traffic throughout the
city, did not give much hope tonight,
as it takes thirty days for the fran
chise to be granted and to put buses
in operation.
William B. Fitzgerald, organizer of
the carmen's union tonight accused
Theodore P. Shonts, president of the
Interborough Rapid Transit company,
of fearing defeat by his refusal to ar
bitrate the strike. He declared arbi
tration would be the "surest way to
prevent both misunderstanding and
i public deception.'
