1
77ie Big Carter County Free Fair Opened Today. Tomorrow and Sat. will be the Big Days
utttl
VOLUME TWENTY-THREE
ARDMORE, OKLA., THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 1916.
NUMBER 294.
2 Iji
a
I
1
ci
tti
irj
,c'l
V-
arj.
'1
bid
pi;,
str
l.uil
bu
the
pea1
IIP
FffiKH GONTIfJUETOREPULSE
T T
EFFORTS OF TEUTONS TO REGAIN GROUND RECENTLY
LOST TO THE ENEMY PROVE FAILURE, ACCORDING
TO PARIS REPORTS
Serbians Capture Bulgarian Trenches on the Macedonian Front
and Heights Northwest t ake Ostrovo, Following
Violent Fighting Battle Sov of Lake Ostrovo Said to
be Turning Favorable to the A "o Greek Port of Kavala
Pillaged and Civilians There M "n -red by Turks Follow
ing Withdrawal of Greek Gam There, According to
Saloniki Dispatch Roumanians K Repulsed Series of
German and Bulgarian Attacks in C -rudia, According
to Report from Petrograd Berlin Sa, Vttacks of Allies
on Jomme rront nave ceen rtepuise in sanguinary
Losses.
--ml of the mouth and would remain '
in service until the 3m h of the month, '
luring the fair only, ami not for a !
longer puiid. When the Ardmore '
people, who have hecn di!:K..i!iy work- i
ing for this I'ullnian .service so long,
heard of this statement thev .l,.i..r. :
mined to take the matter up with the
corporation commission in diately.
FALL STYLE SHOW
M IMMENSE SUCCESS
ripley "labor would have all;" fitzgeraldI I Thousands of People Throne Streets and
v"' 1 "VULU ltLOIl LAUUK. f-pii m i . .
ineatre lo View Uur big
Merchants Display
merchandise displayed, the big markets
latest productions, ardmore merchants
are up-to-the-minute in handling newest
creatons.
LABOR LEADERS IN NEW YORK
DECLARE THAT ALTHOUGH
MORE CARS ARE RUNNING,
THEY ARE STILL HOPEFUL.
The Germans were repulsed
last night in their several at
tempts to regain the lost
ground from the French north
and south of the Somme river
and east of the Meuse at Vaux
Chapitre Wood, the French
war office says.
On the Macedonian front.
the Serbians have captured the
Bulgarian trenches near Vet
rinek and the height northwest
of Lake Ostrovo, after violent
fighting, according to a French
statement from this front. The
battle now in progress south of
Lake Osrovo is turning in favor
of the allies, the statement
adds.
The Greek port of Kavala
was pillaged and civilians mas
sacred by the Turks on the
withdrawal of the Greek gar
rison there, according to a
Ilavas Saloniki dispatch.
The Roumanian troops have
repulsed a series of attacks by Nt"w rki Sept. n Despite the
the Germans and Bulgarians maintenance of regular schedules on
in Dobrudja, Petrogad an- tlle 8"1'way and elevated lines of the
nounces. Interborough Rapid Transit Company
Berlin says the repeated and a,ul llie Kraliiai restoration of service
violent assaults against the surfaco ""ps. the leaders of the
Germans on the Somme front 8triki"s r,,'t railway employees de
have been repulsed with san- t,and ,0llay ,lmt lwy ure far from
cues
Only the Subway and Elevated Lines
In New York Are Able to Run Cars.
Sympathetic Strike Is Still Possible,
Say the Union Men.
w if 'I &fc-
y In -A$
P E.P RIPLEY
I it
j W fl. FITZGERALD
guinary losses for the allies.
WILSON'S SISTER SINKING.
Condition of Mrs. Howe Becoming
Weaker, Acording to Statement.
New London, Conn., Sept. 1). The
condition of Mrs. Annie Howe, the
president's f-ister, Is reported to bo
growing weaker, according to :i bul
letin by the attending physician.!.
WATSON FURNISHES BAIL.
Slayer of Texas Bank Commissioner
Admitted to Bail Today.
AVaco, Texas. Septfl U. Dail In the
mini of $:'0,000, which was granted
last night to T. H. Watson, who is
rhnrged with th murder of Hank
defeated
It Is hinted that the danger of a
sympathetic strike Is not over.
Whether this will actually take place
or not depends on the vote of the
men.
The traction officials announced to
day that service on the subway and
elevated roads is better than usual.
Capital Is putting up a more serious
attempt than ever to combat the pow
er oi uie lahor organization. The
light to declare unconstitutional the
eight hour law which congress passed
for the brotherhoods lias already been
started by K. V. Hipley, president of
the Atchison, Topcka Ai Santa Ve rail
road. He believes the trowlne
strength of labor will eventually de
mand everything in siKiit until a so
cial revolution will result. In his de-
lance of the eight hour law he savs:
Congress, hastily ac.inr under' a
threat of four leaders of labor organ
l.atlons, enacted a so called eluht
hour law, which is nothing more nor
less than an advance of 'M to I'fl ner
cent in the wages of the best paid
men in railway service. It is only lair
to the public and to our employees
to say that the Atchison, Topeka &
Santa Ke itailway Company does not
intend to comply Willi the law until
ordered to do so by the court of last
resort." on the other hand. William
it. Mtzgerald, labor organizer, who
tied up the traction system of New
Vork twice, says capital throughout
the country is using every effort to
crush labor organization. In a state
ment he says: "Mr. Shonts and Mr
Medley of the Interborough traction
OPEfUF
IHEFIHHS
& SUCCESS
do all these people
Where
from ?
That was a ciuestlon that was on
every lip last night when the Imnunso
Hilling ingested Main Street for tilt)
opening or the Tall style show, ailii
every one .was Justified In making this
Miiery because without doubt the larg.
est night crowd ever seen on tho
streets of Ardmore was out last night
to see Hie magiillU'ent display offered
by the enterprising merchants of tho
city.
According to the scholastic census
of the city, Ardmore Is entitled to
18,000 inhabitants, and it looked last
night as if every man, woman and
child within the corporate limits was
present and accounted for, and their
number was niiirmctiteil liv numv vU
r eding the most sanguine hones of imp,, frnm oil,.,- .,u .....n ....
... ....... I..,,,.-. t,n ni.il nn
t arter ( ounty Fair association,
COUNTY FAIR OFFICIALS WERE
SURPRISED AT THE IMMNSE
CROWD AND THE MAGNITUDE
OF THE EXHIBITS.
With an Initial attendance far ex-
the
system of Ne w York have acted like
overlords to us. They believe arro
gance and bulldozing will succeed
where other tactics have failod. The
New York Hallways company's men
struck because the company has bra
zenly openly and deliantly "broken an
agreement which was solemnly made
durmg the strike In August. The In
terborough men struck because the
company is using every means in Its
power to crush their organization, to
intimidate and frighten them."
METHODISTS' CENTENIAL YEAR.
Bronzs Tablet of First Msthod'at Bish
op of Kansas City Unveiled.
Kansas City, Mo., Sept. II Cen
tenlal enr for Method'sm in .Mis
souri is being n'iseived lure by the
Southwestern Mis.-otiri unferfnc ef
the M. K. Church, oO it'.i. A brenze
tablet bearing m, bust it Iiislun
Commissioner Patterson, by Justice ' M' K,nlroe' wh,; "'sl-'"-.lcJ the first
Marper, was furnished today. The ,l",noul t""rca l.i tuo sli!;, was
i t
FifiiLir
ACCEPTED
sureties are signed by the defndant's
aged father, his two brothers and
W. W. Sely of Waco in addition to
Watson himself.
unveiled.
Our Ambassador Visits the Trenches.
T dine, Italy, Sept. 1.1. Thomas Nel
son I'age, the American ambassador,
arrived here today for a week's visit
trX 'he Austrn-Italian front. Ht was
Ma itcoompan.ied by Capt. Klvin It. Ileil-
berg, military attache, and Lieutenant
Commander Charles Russell Train,
naval attache of the embassy. They
were received by both the military
and civil iiuthorities and will be
guests of the supreme commander of
the Italian iirmy.
nnnnnnnnnnnnsana
u
n
a
a
a
a
a
a
a
a
a
a
a
a
a
a
GREET THE VISITORS.
The STadill special train will
arrive at the Frisco depot at
9:nl and will havebout two
hundred Ma Jill boosters. Au
tomobile owners are requested
to meet the train and show the
visitors over the city. It is
proposed to carry the visitors
around the city, to the clubs
and then to the cafe where a
banquet will be s-rved them,
at eleven o'clock.
Let all welco.ne our neigh
bors w ho are to be our guests.
PULLMAN SERVICE VERY BRIEF.
Agent Herndon States That Sleeper
Will Be Operated Only During Fair.
According to a statement made by
L. C. Herndon, joint ticket agent for
the Santa Fe and Hock Island, a
grievous error has bepn made by
someone In giving out the statement
that the Santa Fe would operate be
tween Ardmore and Oklahoma City
from the lilth of September to the
lth of January to test the business
to ascertain if it would be a paying
proposition.
Our Information came from the
press of the state and .also from a
person who stated that he was in tho
office of the commission when tliej
order was made. It seems that the
VICE-PRESIDENT ACCEPTS NOMI.
NATION AND IN HIS SPEECH
HE PRAISES THE RECORD OF
PRESIDENT WILSON.
Indianapolis, Ind., Sept. 14 Thos.
R. Marshall formally accepted the
democratic renomlnation for the vice
presidency here tonight, not for ad
heart, which sits down with them at
every flrelsde and goes to bed with
them In every home, and that thought
Is "Can the president of the I'nlted
States continue to so patiently mnn
age our international affairs as to
maintain honorable peace?"
"The one bright, peaceful spot un
ler the sun this day Is America, and
it is so because the president pleads
guilty to the charge of using words
rather than shot and shell and shrap
nel. If America is to lead the world
toward that now seemingly far dis
tant goal where brute force shall be
bound by wisdom and conscience in
fetters which it can never again
break, then these are the hours for
mere words."
I ne vice president made a caustic
reference to the refusal of Theodore
Koosi velt to accept the progressive
pr aid' ntltil renomlnation, le laring
that Koosevelt was a leader "who
the first free fair was formally opened
at 11 o'clock this morning with nearly
all of the exhibits in place and a
constant stream of new exhibits ar
riving every minute.
President O. K. Harden of the fair
association. Acting Mayor O. C.
I.asher, President Sam Apple of the
Chamber of Commerce nnd President
J. K. Kreuger of the Iluslness ty'n's
association made addresses which
had the most optimistic ring as to
the future destiny of Ardmore as a
center of agricultural exhibits.
West Is Praised.
Secretary Felix K. West of the
fair association came in for well-
merited praise for the showing made,
from the rural districts. To say that
the Iluslness Men's Association did
credit to themelves would be put
ting it mildly. They exceeded tho
fondest dreams of ne citizens who
have been reminded through the press
that this iwas to be a gala event.
The HtoreH along Main Street and
North Washington S jeet were ablazo
with lights and itho displays were
magnificent In every particular. Pre
vious to the undraping of the win
dows that have been hidden from pub
lic gaze for the past two days, tho
band gave a concert In tho down-town
districts that was listened to by
thousands. Immediately following tho
hand concert the parade of automo
biles which had formed at Central
aitional honor, he sfl!(l. "but in the nromis. d he would lead t .tH
-up.- u,.u , may assist In the re-elec-dm but who, alas! deserted at Hull
tion of Woodrow Wilson, who has not j Moose Itun." and now nad "turned his
wamc.1 wnere the path has led. but bark on the Holy Land." He predlct
who has walked where there was no led that the Issues put forward by the
pa h and who has left a trail." republicans would not be accepted as
In a speech of acceptance phrased 1 Mich by the people in the present ab
in characteristic vein, the vice pr-si- I normal year, lidding. "You cannot In
dent sketched briefly the legislative terest a brideeroom In the trlfT m.r
achievements of the administration, in a widow in the coffin trust"
which he said he had been "an on- The all important questUm of what
looker." and eulogized the president the republicans would have Hne r
as "the man who brooded over the sardine the Lusitania. Mexico n,l
rCDUUIIC in S!rm-teil tim.a on.l I... : li. I: i ... ... . .
"" I'uuucM. a presmen ,ai candidate. Mr. Muehes.
every speaker commending him for Park took up their lino of march and
tils untiring effort to make the first with blowing of horns and the gleam
fair a success. Assistant Secretary of bright lights proclaimed the open
and County Demonstration Agent ing of Ardmore's first fall style show.
Carl Russell, who has only been in In the parade were hundreds of au
the county sixty days, was hIso much tomoblles filled with Jolly nierry-mak-praiscd
for the work he has done. 'ers and caused the remark to be again
Exhibits Are Fine. 1 heard on all sides, "Where do they all
All of the exhibits which were In come from?" After the parade the
place were of the highest merit and crowd dispersed in different directions
the Judges, It is expected, will have to wiUiess the dlsplas offered by the
quite a task to make their awards, merchants of the city, and until a
The merchants' exhibits were also late hour every store In the city was
lavishly put up and attracted much crowded with visitors who showered
attention. The fine arts and textile congratulations upon the proprietors
exhibits hall will be r.bsolut-ly nec- for their enterprise,
essary before another fair is held. A lengthy description of every In
Building Praised. dividual display is impossible, and
The buildings at the grounds which In a few brief paragraphs an effort
have entailed surh hard work are of will be made to give note to each ono
the most permanent order snil will who strovo to make Ardmore's first
stand for years to come. The grand- fall style show a success,
stand is second to Oklahoma City, Merchants along Main Street have
which has a concrete structure. The been liberal in the use of flags and
track is In line condition and the bunting, not only for the style show
races during the three days promise last night but for the county fair
to be fast and exciting. A number which opens today and will coinlnuu
of entries have been made. throughout the week. .
A full and detailed acocunt will be Tlie jr0i()1, ,(? list of merchants
given tomorrow, when all exhibits made a snerial effort to t..i,e l.wt
will be in place.
Visitors' Day.
Tomorrow (Friday) will be Ard-
night's show a success:
Westheimer & Daubo offend ono
Of the mont novel Rttniftiona nrnaii!
more and visitors' day at the fair ed at , ...,,. ,,.. ,,uf ,.,.,
ami It Is expected that the attend- wll,.n ..,- ..,. ..,., sl,llwn
ance will be a record-breaker for the at lhe Valirc Th,.alr. T:,e BtaK
state. The banks, wholesale houses was arran)?t.(, HO as , iako all
and every store in the city will close ;,.rrt.c,ive background for the beau-
changed administration, he declared,
would not dare repeal a single one
statement as they did.
Mr. Herndon stated today that the
sleeper would be installed on the !of the important measures
I i s:a;ute hooks
uuHHHHHiiH.HIlliillloi Wantine an is-,... h.. ,.. i
republicans had turned to foreign af
R j fairs, coining such phrases as "firm
. Americanism" which they couiil
an
aj a
aa
a a
a, a
a a
a, 'a
a!a
aja
aja
a, a
WEATHER FORECAST
New Orleans, La., Sept. 14.
The weather forecast for Okla
homa for tonight is fair and
colder with frost in the west
ern portion; Friday fair.
Ropublican spellbinders will
probably kno( k on President
Wil.-on for tjiis also.
ttnaaaaaaaaaaaaii'aaaaaaaaaasaaa algrosses every mother,
lie added that "firm Americanism"
.should be cat gorically d fined bv
put on the. those who had coimd It. and declared
since March 4. 1SI3. jthe people would not be willing tn
disch-drce one dot tor because he was
riticNcd by another who offered no
remedy.
"In my opinion," sail Mr. Marshall,
"the average American wants to
know who is in the partnership with
candidate Hughes in this 'firm Ameri
canism." Ioes the firm consist of
Hughes and Roosevelt, of Hughes
and Hon nzollern, or of Hughes, sur-
en- vivinir partner or trt. nrm of Hughes
Wife Or II'W-I JirJ Unrt- '
no!
a ; define
a! The American people this year have
a made their own iue." said Mr. Mar
I shall. "Those tiiat the parties pre
asent may be only side Iss. tt. The
a real issue of this campaign is that
Jthiught which goes with the father to
Blhis work or business, which
their doors at 2 o'clock and every
body will move out to the fair
?. 1.:
,,,.,....,,. .-ei.i.e ear., are n,aMl.S gv,. d,irnK ,he presentation
trips every nve minutes and the
" "' airs, frank Wolverton wore
in good shape, being well graded
and oiled.
"All roads lead to the fair
grounds," is the motto at 2 o'clock
today.
tiful gowns shown. A miishal pro
gram by liwenstein's orchestra was
Tho
first showing was made of coat suits.
a hand
some brown velvet suit with a deep
collar of fur. She was followed by
the Misses Walling, Gano, C'olverdale,
Markay, (.lumrt. Wall, Parmer,
Ilrown. Klank. Jones and Ray Peter
son. Suits of green velvet, gray, and
Horses and Cattle Dying. blue In tne latest modes were shown.
Horses and rattle in some sections ' with ai .-sories of street shoes and
of Kay county are dying from the ef-.hats. Following the coat suits, af
fects of loco weeds r-nren by live jternoon or party dresses of crepe d;
st'xk. For several years deaths of chine, jafette, serve and taffeta were
livestotk from the effects of loco shown. These were very striking cre
weeds wi re so prevalent that farm-1 ations and were given much applause.
ers In many sections of Kay County I Evening dresses were next shown,
were forced to quit grazing stock onlThet-e were very elaborate. The first
prairie land. A concerted effort was 'gown worn by Miss Violet S human
made to trad Cite the weed, and until was of black, with trimmings of gold
recently farmers believed they bad 'net and girdle of blue This m
