MUTT'S AWFUL
MI TT MI'ST I\K HOME UVfl I, Mt'fllClAN Oil
H sv: JEFF'S EAR IS HAD. NKYKRTHKI.ESM Tills
I MR OF IH II KISIIKHS INK COMKIIUNM IIKTO
MO V Kit; Ml'Slt'U, t'OMKDY .lAM \T I'lIK TOP
OP TODAY'S 8 PORT PAtIE, WHICH ENDH IMSAS
1 ROI'SLY.
Landon Concedes Miller's Election
POIMDEXTEE AMD MTOIOE INCREASE PLURALITIES
THE ELECTION
U\ manner in which the voters decided matters in the primary
election is. of course, mighty pleasing to Ihe Star. To make
a tight for the public good is always gratifying to this newspa
per. and when the people approve and indorse such a battle, it is
doubly gratifying.
r l l HE satisfaction of having made a good light for a good cause
-*• is, and ever will be, its own reward to The Star, and yet we
of The Star are entirelv human. Ihe Star seeks to be right alwavs.
yet it does not alwavs succeed. It hopes only that its mistakes will
always be honest mistakes.
Tllh S 1 AR asks nothing <>f the public official whom it sup
ports other than THAT HE MARK CJOOD BY SERV
ING THE PEOPLE. The Star is not concerned in building
up a political machine—it does not care a rap for political prestige
—it will stand bv anv public official, regardless of his politics, if
that official will be on the square with the public. That—beina
on the square with the public—is the only favor tluit tiny official
who has The Star's support can render to The Star.
a political enemy or for a candidate whom it has helped
to defeat, The Star cherishes no malice nor hatred. Even for
Will E. Humphrey, as a private citi/.en, The Star has nothing but
good will and best wishes.
TjMNALLY, while The Star is pleased because the candidates it
supported met with public approval on Tuesday, it will be far
more pleased if in a year or two years from now these public of
ficials still have the approval of the public because rhev have given
honest and efficient service.
THAT is the only request The Star has ever made or ever will
make of a public official. That is the only favor or service
a public official can ever render to The Star.
Hunters
Bear,
Seattle hunters Thursday
were either busily employed
oiling their guna and stocking
themselves with equipment, or
en the way to tne hills for the
1916 hunting season, which
opens Friday.
Preparations indicate that
the seasSn will be one of the
largest in years. Despite the
fact that the price of ammuni
tion has increased 20 per cent
and firearm* cost nearly 40
per ce'* an in past sea
sons. i era report a I
brisk d' i
E ' i':p«r * Tafr. who
has a <» list of hunting j
(round Hid report* on game, says'
thai Snohomish. Whatcom and
Skagit counties will be the most
pcpular localities this season for
upland birds. Chinese and native
pheasants, blue and ruffled grouse
and quail of all species are to be
found In gr'at quantities In these
counties.
Hood Canal Region Fine
The Hood canal region is also
plentiful with upland birds. It Is
reported. King county »111 be the
m'.tt hunted district for quail
Quail are less plentiful than In
past seasons because of the severe
winter.
Hunters have been warned to
limit their quail bag to 10 birds a
day Only five upland birds can be
•hot In a day. The weekly limit Is
::> birds.
Deer Are Plentiful
The deer season opens September
Ifi. Ranchers, guides and forest
rangers report that the deer are
plentiful. Many of the huntsmen
have already started for the moun
tain districts, so as to be on hand
bright and <arly Saturday morning
to pop off the first deer they see
A fttM rifle will be given b>
Piper It. Taft to the huntsman who
displays the largest deer In Seattle
on Monday morning. The Olympics,
Hoods Canal, Snoqualmle and the
Monte Crlsto districts are the
best deer sections. In Kitsap coun
tv, the deer are also reported
plentiful. The season closes Oct.
It.
Hunt Bear With Dogs
Bear are numerous In all of the
river beds thruout the upper river
egions of the state. The long
winter delayed the berry season In
the mountains, and the bear are
for ed to haunt the lowlands for
food Both black and brown bear,
well as wild cats and cougar.
K ,ay be hunted with dogs
In practically all of the game
districts, there are good fishing
streams, and Seattle *j»ortsrneri
ate taking fishing outfits with
Off to Bag Deer,
Cougar and Birds
Roosevelt Sends
Congratulations to
Senator Poindexter
NEW YORK, Sept. 14.—C01.
Roosevelt today sent the follow'
ing telegram o' congratulation
to Senator Miles Poindexter of
Washington:
"Heart.est congratulations on
your splendid victory. This,
Hiram Johnson's tucceM >n Cal
ifornia, and the results In
Maine, are certainly good
omens."
HANLY TO BE HERE
DESPITE SUDE
The prohibition presidential spe
rial, which was slat d Income to He
Rttle from Spokane Thursday over
the fireit Northern. was routed to
the (Vast over the Northern Pa
rifle because of a 400-foot land
slide between Korea and Tvee. on
the line north of Kverett.
The train will arrive In Seattle
at 2:30 p. m. and will proceed to
Kverett and Snohomish, where
speaking dates will be kept. The
train will return to Seattle late In
the afternoon In time for Seattle
to hear Candidate Hanly at the
Metropolitan tonight.
: them, planning to catch a string
; during the evenings after the day's
i bunting Is over
Elizabeth,
Gabrielle
and Elise
each have something to
toll you.
They will start in •
Monday's Star.
These three youtitf bach
elor maids arc the inter
c>tniK characters around
which
"THE SMU(i<«LKK"
is written.
Don't Mis* Reading It.
The Seattle Star
I THE ONLY PAPER IN SEATTLE THAT DARES TO PRINT THE NEWS s
VOLUME 19
JAIL FOR GERALD
IS JURY VERDICT
(lirrgr* riersld. proprlelcr of
(•erald s • afe. First and Marlon,
drew a Mir. ten re of three month*
in the county Jail and a fln< of
$2r.fl from a fur> In Justice Prink
ere court Thnndtr.
In thus penalizing Gerild for be
ing a bootlegger, the jury followed
the recommendation of Deputy
Prosecutor Palmer. who requested
the mailmuni fine and Imprison
ment.
Oerald Rave notice that he would
appeal his case to the superior
court
BRIDGES AND
TURNER CLOSE
Intpreat In ttir re*ult of the dem
ocratic ballot c»nl«r«d Thuraday on
the rare between (ieorge Turner of
Hpokane anrl Robert Hrldfre* of Hp
attle for thp nomination for t'olted
Ktatpa aenator.
With 3f><s prprlnrt* counted out of
a total of 4lfl In Kliik county, Tur
ner wax 1 ••««!ink Bridge* by but 34
votP*. Turnpr bail ::.riH7, ItrldßP*
Thp official count nf thp
cratlc vote* rant In the prlmarlc*
began at thp county auditor'* office
parly Thuraday morning Auditor
('help* anl'l It wa* doubtful whether
It would tip completed before nldht
POINDEXTER LEADS
BY 2,677 IN PIERCE
TACOMA, Sept. 14.—First
choice votes for United States
senator in 118 out of 131 Ta
coma precincts counted today
total: Poindexter 5,96f>, Hum
phrey 3,288.
WATER SHUTOFF NOTICE
Wat' i «111 he shut off In the
ru'ln on I'hlnnev ave from North
4 7th nf to North 60th *t . on Krl
day. Sept If>, from !» a m to 3
p. tn., hlho water will be ahwt off
In that portion of Rainier Hearli
■upplled from thp Uassello at tank
lylnK north of Norfolk at., between
f>l*t H. and Both H, on Friday, i
Hept. 16, from 8 a m to 6 n. m.
SEATTLE. WASH.. THURSDAY. SEPTEMBER 14,
LATE RETURNS
DON'T CHANGE
CHIEF RACES
< >ne of tlie prcttic-t contents fought in the primaries
dosed Thursday wlien I >an I.andon conceded a victory to
John !•' Miller in thi iji r >r republican nomination (or con
gress in the first district.
When the first precinct returns were counted Miller ap-1
peared to have an easy margin over the field, hut l-andon'-
supporters brought up their candidate to within half a dozen
votes of the former mayor a* the count went on.
A statement from the auditor of Kit*at> county that W
M Whitney wa* leading there, with I .an don well tip in the
running, made the race even more exciting than when con
fined to King county alone.
tendon, however, went ahead of the official count and
at noon Rave out a public statement that he considered him
self defeated by about I.JOO votes
"There i* no chance of catching Miller." he said.
John I Ballaine, who was running third, carried the I'ni
versity precinct*, where he ha* hi* home, by majorities rang-j
iticr frttm (tt 17() 2
Polndextera predicted 10,000
bad 11 »»m v In the *tate
eot.M wan niori' than I«•»!!*•«!
Tburaday when 5.044 prwliwU
r.ave Polnrfriltr kI.SM to Hum
phre? * 74 <27
The MUilort lead over Hum
phrey crntlnued *teadll* to trow aa
(|io counting progreaaed In Kins
fount) U '"'I precineti he *"W
only allihtly ahead. but rarh pre
duct ga>e him a few rddlttonal
vot ■ a to the g f *»d otfr thoae rwt
for hl» opponent.
State return* ahow Polndexter'a
tend Increasing f#»t
Mcllrlde« nomination for go*
ernor. practically certain from the
time the vote* for the flrat pre
clnct were counted, waa *n 'in
doubt* d cinch Thuraday. He had
a lead of lo.ono over Hartley, bit
ne#re*t npi oncnt
I.later, of rourae. waa renominat
ed overwhelmingly by the demo
crat*. a* »m predicted.
Auditor Phelpa crew of ballot
counter* had failed to complete
their table of total* of the King
county remit! up to I p m. and
had little chance of flnlihlng much
before K"rlday.
Mfred II reelection aa
county pro*eeutnr wa* practically
B**ured In the re«ult of the repub
lican prlmarle*. which gave him
an overwhelming victory over
Crawford White and Krank K
Green, hi* clo*e*t opponent*
Op[>o*lng him on the democrats
ticket will he Thorn** .1 <'a*ey
with Nlchola* Schmidt, the nom
inee of the aoclallat*
Aaaumlng that he 1* a* good a*
ie elected lailidln *atd
"I ahall endeavc-r to enforce th*
law during my new term, a* I
have endeavored to do djirlng my
( resent term.
Ity rea*on of my etperl'nce. I
hope to be able to give even bet
ter result* than In the pa*t."
U. 8 SENATOR
."93 precincts out of 416 In King
county Hi** 1
PoMtSMf 30,8*3
Humphrey .10,82*
GOVERNOR
328 precincts out of 416 In King
county give:
Mcßrlde 27.893
Hartley 21.454
CONGRESSMAN
30.'. precincts out of 416 In Kin*
county give:
Miller I 5.250
liUdMi 14,030
Unliable 11,895
Whitney . « 10.9W1
COUNTY RESULTS
M'BRIDE THANKS
HIS SUPPORTERS
Henry Mcßrlde, who won the republican nomination for
governor In the field of eight candidate*, today Issued the fol
lowing atatement:
"To the Public:
"My uppermost feeling at this time la one of gratitude to
the friends and aupportera who made my nomination posaible.
Of the factora making for my aucceaa, The Star was one of the
greatest. I am glad to make public acknowledgment of that
fact.
"Any feeling of elation I might have la tempered by the
knowledge that other candidate* and their friend* are ditap
polnted.
"I am not the nominee of any faction. I truat I may be re
garded a* the atandard bearer of a reorganized, reunited and
triumphant republican party.
GUARD SCANDAL
WILL BE AIRED
IN U. S. COURT
TACOMA. Sept. 14. —Army
men here are Intensely Inter
ested today In the case of Capt.
Oavld Livingstone of Company
M. Second Washington Infant
ry, who has obtained from the
United States district court a
writ of habeas corpus, alleging
he is beirg held a prisoner at
Camp Brown, In contravention
of the articles of war.
The writ I* directed against Col
Win. M In*!)*. In command of the
National tiuard regiment. and la re
'umable September 19. at Seattle.
The can" has developed from
rhargea and counter charges passed
between the two officers while sta
tlotied at Calexlco.
Accord In* to the petition of J-lv
lngston». a soldier of the regiment
deserted while Livingstone was of
fleer of the day. The guard was
called out and the deserter cap
lured On account of the latenes«
of the hour Livingstone failed to
r» port.
Kor thl* Inglls is said to have
cursed Livingstone In the presence
of the troops Capt Livingstone
Shortly thereafter wrote to Inglls.
demanding an apology, and then
laid hla case before the command
ing officer of the Western depart
ment.
Inglls Immediately ordered the at
rent of Livingstone, and he ha*
been In detention since
Cnder the articles of war. when
rhargea are made against an officer
or enlisted man. a hearing must be
given In 10 days after the arrest
This argument Is used by Living
stone In his petition for a writ of
habeas corpus, and |l I* on this
ground that Judge Netercr granted
the writ.
STATE RESULTS
2,064 prtvlncU out of 2,443 In tho
utale. Rive:
U. 8 SENATOR
Potndftxtpr 85.25(5
Humphrey "4,827
GOVERNOR
1,808 precincth out of 2,44.'1 in the
Htnte give:
McHrldn 76.439
ll«rtVy 17,017
"HENRY MtBRIDE."
ONF f*FNT '««•>«
I sw <HMI> >«
Burglar in Jail Wants
to Swap Prison Sentence
for Trip to the Arctic
• •••• *****
If you have something to swap, list it in Star Want Ads.
"L'ditor The Star:
"The undersigned recently acauired a sentence of 'not less than two
and one-half, nor more than lS years in the state penitentiary at Walla
Walla.' I hat this sentence was in cood working order at the time it came
into the present owner's possession will be vouched for by the superior court
judge from whom it was received.
"This sentence is still unused, and practically new. as the case is now
up on appeal. It seems like a waste of good material to let this sentence lie
around idle during the next three or four years, while the case is being fought
thru the state supreme court and three federal courts; therefore the under
signed is willing to let any responsible party (who can demonstrate good
faith and a desire to acquire new experiences) in on the proposition upon
any reasonable terms —exchange, long lease, or sale.
' The sentence is guaranteed bv Alfred 11. I.undin and John I). Carniodv to
be absolutely unassailable in any court, and to be perfectly serviceable dur
ing its existence.
"Being in need of a somewhat cooler climate, the owner is wining to sell
this sentence very cheap for cash, let it on a QQ-year lease for a small first
payment, or exchange for almost anything useful—preferably something in
the line of unused pardons. Will consider exchanging for a serviceable vacation
in the interior of Alaska, a first-class ticket to Stefansson's present headquar
ters or any other point outside this state, or a package of Mail Pouch tobacco.
Nothing in the line of food required.
"The only drawback to this proposition is the fact that the sentence is
slightly shop-worn, and the further fa:t that the owner has guaranteed to
make Prosecutor Alfred H. I.undin and his force eat out of his hand before
the sentence becomes effective; all applicants should, therefore, have reason
ably large hands.
"Further information concernim; the sentence, or the character and in
tegrity of the owner thereof, may be obtained upon application to Alfred H.
I.undin, county prosecutor, or Captain Charles Tennant, of the local police
department.
"Offers should be submitted to the owner at the county jail. No sen
tences to prisons in other states, or vacancies in state or county prosecutors'
offices will be considered, What have you to offer?
"CHARLES W. KELCH,"
"Owner."
Charles \\. kelch was convicted of stealing clothes from a room occupied
by William Moohn and Albert Roach in the St. Paul hotel, lot fifth ave. S.,
on April y 2. fudge Tallman sentenced him to serve two and a half to 15
years in the Walla Walla prison for burglary on June when Kelch appealed
to the supreme court.
LAST EDITION
THE "HAPOSITION' SHEET DIDN'T EXACTDT
I,IKK TO COMK OCT AND ADMIT A < I.KAN DEFEAT,
SO IT KKOI'OIIT I P Till; ODD WIIKKZK ABOUT
I'lIK 'WET INTERESTS" IIKINO AT WORK, rfl'T
I II AT DIDN'T DISHEARTEN IIEOKOE. AND HE OF
FERS I S FAIR WKATIIKH KOR TONIGHT AND FRI
DAY
CHarle* W. Kelch
IS GUARANTEED BY LUNDIN
CAN BE REACED AT COUNTY JAIL
