State Historical Society
Faney County Republican
Vol. 21. No. 44.
FOUSYTII, MISSOURI. Til U USD AY, SEl'TEMIiKU 14, 1916.
Four Page?.
War, Wool, Wilson and Wyoming
Wars will Sc waged. Warriors want
K.i'ni wintu wear. Wilson willed, free
woo. Wjomirg wouders why. Hav
ing rid our sj stein of that alliteration,
let's talk the matter over.
Prior to the outbreak of the Europ
ean war we w re nt xp: rtm of wool
waiintf ppparel to any appreciable ex
tint. Oir mills h:td all they cculd do
to supply our own needs. Wc sold in
foreign markets not more thnn $4,500-
000 s.:rh a vMr. From the outbreak
01 the ,vj:, , 1, 1?H to June 30.
1916, wc exploited wol wearing ap
p.nel to the value of 270'000,000-a
pretty good indication, is it not, that
wool is a prinie t- qnMte in war time?
There is a crtum kind ol "cold feel"
that makes a man ' tv proud to fight,"
but the phv-ically cold fret render ev
en a brave man incapable of efficient
fighting. Wool socks warm the latter;
hellfire itself cannot tluw the Icrmer.
Wool blankets warm the so'.dieij hot
air warms the politician.
N r were we exporters of much
w))l. Otr producers sold their cli,) in
this countryr it was made in American
miils, employing American labor. Ia
1914 we sent away 335,000 pounds.
In 1915 we exr-orted 8,158,000 p uu.ls
w rtii ?2, 216,000. In 1916, a lilt it
over ha'f as much, but the price d. ub
led. The tariff board estimated that
in 1910 our wool manufacturers used
500,000,000 pounds of raw wool of !!
kinds annually. The production ol
the United S'.ates at that time was in
the neighborhood of 32S,000,00'J
pounds, coming under the head of clas
ses 1 and 2. In that year Wyoming
topped the list of sheep-raising States
and was second in the production of
wool, with 36,000,000 pounds of wash
ed and unwashed wool, equal to 11,
500.000 pounds of the scoured. Mon
tana had the edge on Wyoming in wool
production, by very little.
The stock argument of the Demo
crats was that free wool meant cheaper
clothing, because it meant cheaper
wool with which to make it. When
the Wilson-Underwood free wool meas
ure passed the House in May, 1913,
the certainty of free wool caused the
price to drop. When there is a threat
of free wool buyers decline to buy ex
cept for immediate needs, unless
they can buy at a price which will not
involve a lots. They depend on their
surplus stocks to carry them through
until free wool is a certainty. They
buy on a free trade basis or not at all.
The manufacturers had made up their
samples for the fall and winter of 1913
and the spring and summer of 1914
very largely cf American wool. The
cloths could not be made up of sub
stituted foreign wools, so, having cut
down their purchase of American wools
when free trade was threatened, when
the 1914 clip came in they found
"Cut Scon, I'todrnl Vn BmO
themselves buying in competition with
eich other, ard strange as it might
otherwise seem, the price of American
wool wi-r.t up. The w.t came on and
fjr some lime an t rab-rgo was laid on
Australian wool, ai.d the pic contin
ued up. The Dcmocra'ic patty, bav
in j declared that free wwl want
cheaper wool, then turned around and
bragge'l that their tariff law had raised
the price of wojI. What inconsistency.
Duiing the fiscal jear 1913, under
R-publican law we impor cd 4,000,
000 pounds of wool classes 1 and 2,
which p tid us nearly $10,000,000 of
revenue. W.- imported 146.000,000
pounds ir; 1914 under Democratic law,
s;veu months of free wool 242,000,"
000 pounds in 1915, and 425,000,000
pounds in 1915. An insignificant
duty was realized Iro n this wool becau e
angora goat hair w is retained on the
dutiable libt, thanks to Congressman
Giroer, of Texas an anjori wool pro
ducing state, who wis a framer of the
the bill. Altogether w h we lost con
Mdcnbly over $130. 000, 000'in revennc
Irrm wool hor,e, and the consumer
get no benefit, but he ptid more in
ternal taxes.
Wyoming is going Republican b
cause it wants a return to the protect
ive policy. Wyoming knows that
competition from Australia will be
strou after the war and she knows
wool prices hive been hih because
of the wir. Wyoming believes it is a
wiser measure of mi.itary preparedness
to encourage the production of wool
in America than it is to run a govern
ment owned nitrate lant. 'Wyoming
"watchfully waits" for a wallop at
Woodro. Let all wool states do
likewise.
Wilccu's Mexican Policy
"He kept us out of war. Yet we
seized Vera Cruz. That was war
very ignoble war. And it was called
war over the bodies of those
dead soldiers; it was called a war i f
service.
"Talk about what is your po'i y?
What is the president's policy doe3
any one know? Has the executive
ever had a policy for more than six
months on the Mexican question? I
repeat who knows today what the pol
icy of the administration will be three
months hence? My friecds the trouble
is that this administration had written
such a record that no matter what it
says, you do jiot know whether it will
stick to it." Chas, E. Hughes.
It must not be forgotten that Samuel
Gompers is a Democrat and It must
not be overlooked that President Wil
has favcrcd him by appointing his son
to a good job and has appointed a
a score or more of his special friends
otherwise. This knowledge will serve
to explain some things.
Up la As Air Almost Four TeirsC
11 M M SnTwtM
tj DETROIT'S IMPRESSIONS OF A MAN.
K Governor Huflhes visit to Detroit opened the presidential campaign
(n of 1916 and If we may forecast the events that are to follow by the
N cmcr.s of Monday we would prognosticate an Intensely warm, vivid and
C, humanly Interesting period In the next few months.
Gj Setting aside the auspices of meteorological conditions In this pro-
In vision of the future although they are approved by numerous profes-
Ci clonal augurs and by a host of commonalty at well we base this pro
phecy on the characteristics of the candidate whose too brief stay with
g us has been enjoyed by all with whom he came Into contact
q The misguided individuals who have been expecting Charles E.
H Hughes would prove to be a cold proposition and therefore easy to
a beat are in for a shock that will make them think they have been hit by
f0 an uninsulated trolley wire. There is nothing cold about Mr. Hughes,
pj Detroit has learned. He Is about as Intensely human a piece of hu-
fG manity as ever captured the hearts of a crowd, and the more people In
the United States he meets between now and November the more
votes will be ea6t for him. As a campaigner he is a revelation. He
likes his fellow beings, and they like him because they see he likes
them.
And what his personality begins his remarkable powers of Intellect
end utterance finish. He drives his points home with tremendous force.
What he says sticks. There are thousands of Americans today who
can retell every;step In the arguments he made eight years ago on
the Bryan trust policy, yet in 1908 Mr. Hughes was not especially a
prominent figure and there was no particular reason why his address
more than others should have remained clearly In the memory except
the gift of the man to send his own thoughts so deep into the brains
of others. They are clear In his own mind first, undoubtedly. He knows
preciselywhat he wants to say because he has reasoned it out before
he speaks it out. Probably that has something to do with the ease
with which he conveys his meaning. But It Is a very rare quality
he possesses in his ability to master subjects so thoroughly as to make
the most abstruse simple to himself and his hearers. It is a quality
eminently desirable In a political -candidate; it is infinitely more to be
desired In the president of a great country like the United States.
Detroit's Impression of Charles E. Hughes Is all favorable. The
thousands of people who have studied him at close range are convinced
that if he Is elected president next November he will be a great presi
dent, one of the greatest this nation has known, worthy to stand In
history with George Washington and Abraham Lincoln, a custodian of
the republic's fate to whom that fate may confidently be Intrusted.
If that conviction is shared by the people of other states whom he is
6till to meet, the outcome of his swing around the great American
circle cannot fail to be propitious for him. Detroit Free Press.
Political Session Ends.
The first session of the Sixty-fourth
Congress surpas ed all j receding ante
election sessions in its purely political
performances. It murt be conceded
that considerable cunning was shown
by the directing mind which shaped
it- course iu frlecting subjects of legis
lation calcu'ated to make special appral
to various classes r.f the population in
doubifol sutes. U.vl jr the stress of
political exigencies several measures
impressive in appearance were rushed
thro'igh. S line of these are glaring'y
defective, like the rural credits bill.
S.mie are ter shams, like the ship
purchase bill. The tar ff commission
ard tie sc-calud ai.ti-dumping law
were denned to deceive. The fin
mer nu be made iff -dive, wrh a
president aid Congress Iriendy to a J
proiective tariff ti direct its labors audi
afford it adtq'tate financial suppirt.
The antidumping law will be useles, j
as it will be impossible to convict, in;
criminal proceedings, importers of the
crime of trying to sell in the U.iited j
States articles at less than their current ;
price in the countries of production ac': "Nothing contained in this act
with the intent to establish a monoply shall be construed to prevent or inter
in our market. The difficulties of en- j fere with the enforcement of the pro-
forcement of the Sherman act at h vn; i
where all the parties are within the
jurisdiction of the court and all the
witnesses are subject to process, prov
es this to any thoughtful man. But
the purpose was to impress busy citi
zens that these great problems have
been "solved." The president relies
on the public accepting the pretenses
as real performances and on its ignor
ing criticisms as "partisan." But
there is one outstanding fact about the
political session which cannot be hid.
Its appropriations has been the most
lavish in histcry. The actual, definite
appropriations reach (1,637,583,682.
Obligations and authorizations wil. run
the total to over $1,850,000,000. If
the second session be as liberal, it will
be a S3 700,000,000 Congress.
The actual appropriations are over a
half billion more than those of the last
sersion. The increase of the army and
navy appropriations is but $329. 275,
565. The increase of other appropri
ates is $254,540,612. In every de
partment except pensions there is an
increase. It may well be called the
extravagant session. Globe-Democrat.
You can't repudiate the state admin
istration mess at Jefljrson City br vot-
ing the Democatic state ticket, for it
is running on a platform endorsing and
even eulogizing the record made at
the state capital. Your only chance
to express your disapproval is to vote
for Judge Lamm and his associates on
the Republican ticket.
"Clarifying" Tfi8 Antitrust law.
Mr Hughes in his speech at St.
Louis Saturday night explcded the
Claim in Mr. Wilson's speech of ac
ceptance, delivered that afternoon, to
the effect that the Sherman act had
been "clarified by definition." He
showed by quotations from the Coving
ton act, creating the Federal Trade
Commissions, that unfair methods of
competition are declared unlawful."
But the term is not to the law The
law denies "friud" and there are no
difficulties about the definition of "un
lair methods of competition" is a new
term under the sun. This is not a be
lated piece of captious criticism. Sev
eral senators pointed out the dfect
when the bill was pending. They
provided that it merely befuddled The
new commission made by whim decide
a certain method unfair. Bat that will
not settle the rartter. An appeal will
lie and the supreme Court will have to
find a meaning of the wordfi, if there
be any. It reaching that meaning the
Supreme Court must be bound by the
following language of the Covington
vi-ions of the antitrust act; nor shall
anything contained in this act be con
strued to altr, molily or repeal the
antitrust act." In other wotds, so far as
this act is concerned, the Sherman act
stands exactly as it was. The com
mission is merely empowered to dupli
cate the duties of the courts in enforc
ing the Sherman act, following its own
whims ins'ead of clear-outlaws.
Durum the Senate discussion critics
were put eff with th; promise that all
would be cleared up by the Clayton
act. But it deals with duplicate direc
torates and x niption of farmers' and
labor unions. Tnrre hi been no clari
fications, except as to tying cause con
tracts it had oren impossible to reach
under existing law. Mr. Wilson's
further claim IhM his administration is
not unfriendly to big business solely
on account of its s:zc causes some
wendus as to why ii.s h"i v ni'ri:ral
has appealed certniii exes where ih
inferior courts have f.nnd i le idants
guilty of no monopoiis'.i;: prai:. Ii
it merely an instance ol his habit of
blowing hot and cold? G obc D. m -
cut.
If you want to know what s-rt of an
official John P. Gordon, the present
Democratic state auditor and nmriidate
Tor re election, has been, j ;st look up
j what the present chairman of the
j Democratic state committee said about
j him previous to the primaries. It was
j warm stuS and as a family testimonial
it really was worth while.
Tha State Tax Rate.
The Democratic newspapers of the
state are publishing an alleged com
parison between the tax rates of Mis
souri and several adjoning states, to the
discredit of the latter. The states cf
Iowa and Illinois are mentioned as un
der Republican control and as having
a higher tax rate. An investigation
will show that the people of both Iowa
and Illinois pay much less taxes per
$100 of actual piopertj valuation than
do the people of Missouri and get in
finitely more '.or their money. In the
states named there is exemption for
the poor man who only has a few hun
dred dollars while in Missouri under
Democratic rule, the workingman has
had to pay on valuation of fifty dollars
even when he didn't have a thing on
earth except his immediate clothing, a
condition which obtains in no Republi
can state. Besides, in Iowa and Illi
nois, property is valued (or taxation on
a much lower basis, a fact which vitally
affects the rate but evens itself out iu
the gross tax payment.
The proper comparison to make in
Missouri is with the Republican admi
nistration of Governor lladley immedi
ately preceding but the apologists of
the present state regime, including
Col. Gardner, couldn't be induced to
go into this manifestly fair form of com
parison because the showing would put
them to shame.
Every citizen of Missouri knows,
without seeing the figures that the ad
ministration of Governor Hadley was
not only more economical and business
like but more efficient than that of the
present Democratic outfit at Jefferson
City and there was no scandal connect
ed with that administration. It com
manded everybody's respect and the
people of the state held up their heads
in justifiable pride during its incumbency.
"America First."
Congress has determined to follow
the recommendations made by Presi
dent Wilson in his last annual message
and place a tax on the lead, zinc, iron
and steel produced in this country.
When the Underwood bill was passed
all of these products were either put
on the free list or the tariff on them
materially reduced. Should the pro
posed legislation be enacted, we will
have the strange condition of taxing the
American who produces these products
while if the foreigner ships them here
they come in free or at reduced rates.
The effects of the Underwood bill on
these products can be seen by the im
ports of lead and zinc, two products in
which Missouri is largely interested,'
just before the European war, when
conditions were normal and the Under
wood bill operating as was expected.
In July, 1913, under Protection, we
imported 253 tons of lead ore, hile
in July 1914, j ist before the war and
under Free Trade, we imported 12,189
tons of lead ore, or 48 times as much.
Carranza (to Uncle
In July 1913, under Protection we im
ported 682 tons of zinc ore, while in
July 1914, just before the war and un
der Free Trade we imported 22,940
tons of zinc ore or 33 times as much.
These imports were being felt, for the
lead and zinc industry in Missouri, just
before the outbreak of the European
war, was at the lowest ebb known in
years.
The injustice of the proposed legis
lation, which would tax an Amer'can
producer and permit the foreigner to
ship his product in free, willbeaparent
to everyone. Wm. McKinley in one
of his addresses, said:
"The foreign producer has no right
or claim to equality with our own. He
is not amenable to our laws. There
are resting upon him none of the obli
gations of citizenship. He pays no
taxes, he performs no civil duties, he
is subject to no demands for military
setvice, he is exempt from State coun
ty and municipal obligation, he con
tributes nothing to the support, pro
gress and honor of the nation. Why
should he enjoy unrestrained equal
privileges and profits in our markets
with our producers, our labor, and our
taxpayers?"
McKinley contended thai the for
eigner was not entitled to equal treat
ment in this country with the Ameri
can producer, but the Wilson admi
istration feels that he is entitled to
superior treatment. Under Demo
cratic legislation the American pro
ducer is taxed for his enterprise, while
the foreigner enjoys our markets free.
Mr. Wilson's idea of "America
First" evidently means "Tax America
First."
Hitting Their own Candidate
The Democratic State Convention
took an awful wallop at Col. Gardner,
their candidate for Governor, when
tkey declared themselves "in favor of
wealth to return same to the assessor
for taxation purposes."
On the 12th das of February, 1913,
Col. Gardner, when signing bonds in
the Federal Court, made an affidavit
that he was the owner cf $1,000,000
worth of personal property, free and
clear of all liens and incumberances.
In the same year Col. Gardner returned
to the assessor in St. Louis a personal
property tax list of only $2,600.
Should a Democratic administration
endeavor to unearth hidden wealth for
purposes of taxation they would do well
to begin with their own candidate for
Governor.
Senator James A. Reed solemnly
declared in the Senate the other day
that if Hughes is elected he will surely
get us in to war. And as if this
j were not sufficiently ridiculous, he ad
I ded the assertion that a victory for Mr.
. Hughes would destroy our prosperity."
, Ii this is'Jim Reed's estimate of the
j intelligence of the people of Missouri,
I he is destined to sun up against the
horse-laugh.
cunt, 1. 1 ri r tafsf m
6am): "Giddapl"
' ii' p. aura
'
