Fargo Mayor Enjoys
Annual Hunting Trip
Fingal Herald. Mayor Emery, A1
Johnson, Chas. Buck and Harry Vev
erell came from Fargo Thursday morn
ing and in company with local chicken,
duck (and blackbird) hunters crept
into the fields in search of game,
•which is not plentiful. The bunch
went north and at Crystal lake Mayor
Emery wandered from .the others and
after an hour of heavy bombarding
returned dragging his game on the
ground behind him. His joy was up
to 170 in the shade and rising—he
liad found shooting that he had never
dreamed of finding. Upon his arrival
one hunter was elected as an inform
ant to painfully explain to the mayor
of the Gate City that he had mud hens.
Chas. Buck informed us this morn
ing that A1 Johnson talked in his sleep
last night and told how Deverell had
broken the shell of an egg and tied
an infant chicken to his, Johnson's,
gun barrel and that one, lone, stray,
orphaned chick was the only one
Johnson grounded the first shot.
When the weary nimrods returned
to the village at dusk a d'elicious
chicken supper was served at the
home of Mr. and Mrs. A. A. Boe by
Mesdames Boe, F. J. Kencke, C. E.
Batcheller and George H. Crary.
City's Black Cloud Dissolved by
Pitiless Light of Police Court
The colored population of Valley
City has been increasing constantly
since the first moke hit town in the
«arly summer. It has assumed the
•dignity of quite a colony, and as usual
in such cases, trouble arose. Monday
the officers kept bringing them in
from the highways and byways until
the entire contingent appeared for a
hearing before Judge Moe. Bach
.member of the race of Ham had an op
portunity to tell their story, and be
ing put on oath and with the help of
the assistant state's attorney with now
and then a question, sufficient evi
dence accumulated to show there were
some undesirable citizens in our
midst. At the time of going to press
the hearing had not been completed,
but from what had transpired it was
evident and not difficult to guess that
before the dawn of another day there
would be peace and quiet in some va
cant houses, and a census taker would
have to make a blank entry under the
heading of colored population.
Pretty Party for Mrs. Neumann
Mrs. Geo. A. Fridd and Mrs. C. E.
Burgess gave a very pretty party on
Monday evening at the Fridd home
for Mrs. Otto Neumann, who leaves
this week to make her home in Minne
apolis. The guests arrived at 8 o'clock,
and during the evening played at 11
tables of five handed 500. Mrs. Har
old Dwight received the prize for the
highest score and Mrs. Cameron re
ceived the consolation prize. The
guest of honor was also given a beau
tiful bud vase as a remembrance of
the evening. About 11 o'clock delic
ious refreshments were served. Those
assisting the hostess were the Misses
Hamilton, Boynton, Bigit and Fridd.
The color sch'eme was carried out in
yellow and brown, and brown-eyed
susans and bouquets of yellow pansies
were the flowers used about the
rooms in decorating. The affair was
one of the most enjoyable of recent
social affairs. Mrs. Neumann has been
the honored gpest at a large number
of parties in the event of her leaving
the city soon.
Miss Goldie Varco left on No. 2 Sun
day evening for Minneapolis, where
•she will spend a couple of days this
•week.
Leo Straus to Become
Big Silk Manufacturer
Leo Straus has made arrangements
to dispose of his interests in the
Straus Clothing Co. here and about the
first of January will go to Paterson,
TsT. J., to become a member of a silk
manufacturing company. The plant
there will be improved and enlarged
to 50 or 60 looms. Mr. Straus' partner
is an experienced manufacturer and
will have charge of the plant and the
manufacturing end, while Mr. Straus
will be sales manager. The* also have
an office in New York.
Mr. Straus will move his family
east. He has two brothers in Paterson
and one in New York. This will bring
the family together and make it pleas
ant for the new member of the firm.
His interests here will be taken over
by Herman Stern and M. G. Straus, of
Casselton.
During his residence here Mr. Straus
has attended strictly to business and
the store under his management has
enjoyed a large and growing patron
age. He has been a good and progres
sive citizen and the family will be
missed from the social life of the city.
His successors here are well and fav
orably known and the business will
be in competent hands.
VOL. XXXVI, NO. 20. (Official County Paper) VALLEY CITY, NORTH DAiKOTA, THURSiDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 1916.
KENSAL FARMERS BUYING
FANCY HOLSTEIN CATTLE
Kensal, Sept. 10. Diversity Farm
will have a carload of pure bred Hol
stein cattle here in a few days. These
choice dairy animals will be shipped
from Northfield, Minn., next Monday,
accompanied by Sidney Smith, a fancy
stock breeder. The consignment will
include an attractive bunch of calves
and young stuff, some of which will be
distributed among local buyers.
Dinner Party for Mrs. Mayland
Mrs. William Olson was hostess at
a dinner party Saturdav evening at
her home on West Park avenue, com
plimentary to Mrs. Edwin Mayland,
who will leave the city soon for her
new home in Fargo. The guests who
were present included the close
friends of Mrs. Mayland and covers
were placed for eight. An elaborate
dinner was served at 6 o'clock. The
color scheme was carried out in pink,
asters and gladoli forming the table
decorations. After dinner the even
ing was spent in visiting and several
musical numbers were enjoyed. Mrs.
Olson was assisted by Mrs. Chas. Pet
erson.
Guards to Be Home Soon
Washington, Sept. 11.—Secretary of
War N. D. Baker told Senator James
H. Lewis, of Illinois, today that he will
order the national guard on the border
home soon. Beyond this Secretary
Baker would not commit himself. He
would not fix a time limit in which it
might be presumed the troops would
be returned.
Secretary Baker told Senator Lewis
that it was the intention of the war
department to bring more roops back
from the border as soon as their places
can be filled by organizations still in
mobilization camps.
Senator Lewis understood from this
conversation with Secretary Baker
that the war department is determin
ed to carry out its policy of sending
the 20,000 remaining guard troops to
the border.
Whether the administration will be
able to withstand the pressure for the
demobilizing of these troops is to be
seen.
Dr. and Mrs. C. E. Hunt and children
and the doctor's mother, Mrs. E. H.
Hunt, of Grand Forks, returned to the
city on Monday evening from a week's
auto trip through South Dakota. While
gone they visited with the doctor's
brothers at Aberdeen and Miller, and
at Conbe they were guests at the home
of an uncle of Mrs. Hunt. They spent
Sunday at Aberdeen and stayed over
there for a day owing to rain. The
party report a most delightful trip and
the roads as being much better in
North Dakota than in South Dakota.
Mrs. Hunt, Dr. Hunt's mother, will
leave this week for Jamestown and
Buchanan to visit and will return here
later for a further visit before going to
her home at Grand Forks.
Rev. George B. Caley returned to
the city from Fargo on Sunday morn
ing, where he went to officiate at the
wedding of Miss Blanche Jewell and
William Vance Wilson on Saturday
evening. Besides Rev. Caley and fam
ily, Miss Alice Earley, of this city,
was also in attendance at the wed
ding.
The ladies of the Congregational
guild will be at home at a farewell
party to Mrs. Otto Neumann on Wed
nesday afternoon at 3 o'clock at the
guild rooms. Mrs. Neumann expects
to leave the city soon for Minneapolis,
where the family will make their new
home.
TRAINING SCHOOL ENROLLS
BIG ATTENDANCE ALREADY
The registration in the Training
school at the Normal school has pass
ed the 150 mark and is already larger
than at any time during the fall term
last year. Several new students were
enrolled on Tuesday morning, while
other students have not yet returned
to the city. Pupils will be enrolled in
the various classes when they return.
The above number is exclusive of
the kindergarten, which will be organ
ized with the opening of the Normal
school on Sept. 26.
Bismarok Public Opinion: Tuesday
of this week Rev. and Mrs. Martell, of
Valley City, and Rev. and Mrs. Olson,
of Gwinner, were guests at the home
of Rev. and Mrs. Alrson. They mot
ored here, having been to Wilton last
Sunday for the services of installation
there, and had visited friends en route.
Martin Skadshein left Monday after
noon on No. 4 for Fargo. Mr. Skad
shein's home is in Alberta, Can., and
he has been spending some time here
assisting with the fall work at the
John Wooland farm.
May Establish Night
School in This City
Thos. S. Griffing, naturalization ex
aminer from the St. Paul office of the
government bureau of naturalization,
made an inspection here Monday in
regard to establishing a night school
for foreign-born adults. The course
would allow them to perfect them
selves in English and civics and en
able them to become more efficient as
citizens. Bismarck, Fargo and James
town have tried these schools with
good success. The usual procedure is
for the agent to report his findings
and for the schools to be established
under supervision of the commercial
club or some civic club or body. In
most places a small tuition is charged,
but that feature is entirely with the
management of the school.
TELEPHONE CALL TAX OFF
FINGAL LADY VISITS
VALLEY CITY FRIEND
Mrs. O. Thone, of Fingal, was an ar
rival in the city on Monday for a short
visit at the home of Mrs. Lotta San
ders, on Sixth avenue. Tuesday morn
ing Mrs. Sanders, little Charlotte San
ders, Mrs. Thone and Mrs. T. Norlien
were passengers on No. 7, for Sanborn
to spend the day as guests of Mrs.
Sanders' daughter, Mrs. Tony Linn.
The ladies will return Tuesday even
ing.
Normal Is Preparing
for Big Registration
A large registration with an increase
over the number of students enrolled
for the same term last year is expect
ed when the fall term at the Normal
school opens on Tuesday morning,
Sept. 26. While the partial crop fail
ure has tended to keep down enroll
ment, there has been an unusual num
ber of inquiries and a heavy corres
pondence from prospective students.
On account of the crop conditions
there are many requests for assistance
in finding suitable employment for
students, both young men and young
women, outside of school hours to
help defray expenses.
Householders who have such employ
ment and intend to secure help should
communicate at once with the dean
of women, Mrs. Belle S. Spurr, whose
phone number is 140, or call the gen
eral office at the Normal school, 101.
There is expected to be an unusual
call for rooms in private homes and
all householders having furnished
rooms available to students should at
once list them with the dean of wo
men, if they have not already done so.
THE WEEKLY TIMES-RECORD
County Commissioners
Meet in Short Session
The county commissioners met in
regular session Monday. The session
was a short one, consuming only one
day. Aside from allowing bills and
putting through the routine business
there were contracts awarded for a
couple of small bridges and consider
ing the bids for furnishing coal.
FUNERAL WAS HELD SATURDAY
The funeral of Freeman S. Ellis,
who died at the home of his daughter,
Mrs. Laura Moore, at Rogers, was held
in the city on Saturday afternoon at
2:30 o'clock at the home of Mr. and
Mrs. S. P. Ellis on Elizabeth .street.
I Rev. Lyon, of the Congregational
I church, officiated, and the interment
was made in Woodbine cemetery.
Effective last Friday at midnight home in Minneapolis, after visiting at
the revenue tax of one cent on each the Wm. Weiss farm and also at the
telephone call was discontinued by the L. C. Steuwig home in the city. Mr.
new revenue act passed last week. Wegner is a nephew of Mrs. Steuwig,
The tax on telegrams, express and and had been spending the past two
freight bills is also discontinued. weeks here.
How much better it is to have this money used con
structively in ways which mean sobriety, industry, home
ownership, integrity, good citizenship and education of
children. Saving just for the sake of saving is not advo
cated. Thoughtful, purposeful saving is the thing.
Wm. Wegner has returned to his
Illlllililllllilllll
I
If you doubt (hat this nation needs a new birth in thrift,
consider these facts:
We spend $8,400,000 a year for cigarettes.
We drank 70,000,000 gallons of whiskey last year.
We chevy up over $25,000,000 worth of chewing gum
annually (one concern spends $2,000,000 a year adver
tising its gum.)
Last year the American people paid out $90,000,000
for candy.
We could do without a very large part of tho things
represented by those enormous figures, and be just as well
off—yes, a great deal better off.
This Bank Stands Ready to Help You
BANK OF VALLEY CITY
Supreme Court Files Decision
Against CapitaljRemoval Vote
Eismarck, Sept. 11.—The state su
preme court today handed down a de
cision permanently restraining Secre
tary of State Thomas Hall from put
ting the capital removal proposition on
the ballot with other issues to be voted
on at the election in November.
The court holds that the legislature
has not provided the machinery by
which the initiative feature of the
state constitution may be carried out.
The opinion is written by Justice
Cross. All of the members concurring.
Judges Burke, Bruce and Christian
sen filed separate concurring opinions.
The attorneys for the respondents
were: Miller, Zuger and Tillotson
Newton, Dullam and Young, and Ben
ton Baker, of Bismarck and Sullivan
and Sullivan, of Mandan.
I Attorneys for the petitioners were:
Lawrence and Murphy, of Fargo T. F.
McCue, of Carrington J. J. Young
blood, of Fessenden Einker and Duell,
I W. M. Jackson, J. S. Cameron, J. A.
Manley, R. J. Bothe and C. J. Maddux,
of New Rockford.
"Our constitutional provisions were
taken from the Oregon constitution,"
declared the opinion. "The omission of
I the words found in the Oregon consti
I tution that would have made this pro
I vision self-executing and then so in
terpreted there by court decision
thereon, must be presumed to have
been deliberate and intentional and for
the purpose of preventing such from
being construed as self-executing.
"As there is no law authorizing any
amendment of our state constitution
I by initiate proceedings, the petition is
I void upon which the respondent
threatens to submit this question to
(a
vote.
Mrs. M. R. Nelson entertained a
number of friends on Friday evening
at her home, on North Fifth avenue, in
honor of her house guest, Mrs. Klein
schmidt, of Fargo, who has been
spending the past week here. Cards
formed a pleasant amusement for the
evening and three tables of 500 were
played. The high score of the evening
was won by Mrs. L. S. Platou, and
Mrs. H. P. Holm, who had the lowest
number of points, received the con
solation prize. About 11 o'clock de
licious refreshments were served. As
sisting the hostess were the Misses
Mabel Baarstad and Amanda Skret-|provision
ting.
Fargo Courier-News: Miss Pearl
Sullivan, of Valley City, came to Far
go last evening from Minneapolis and
is the- guest of Miss Frances Witcik,
of Tenth street south.
I "A court should enjoin submission
of such a question where there is no
law under which it could be legally
submitted to a vote.
"It contemplates that legislation
shall be enacted declaring the per
centage of signers actually necessary
to propose constitutional amendments
as the words of 'at least 25 per cent'
was intentional to be but a limitation
upon the legislature that at least 25
per cent should be required but not to
declare the percentage necessary, leav
ing that to future legislative action to
determine the proper and necessary
minimum percentage to be required,
whether that percentage be 25 per cent
or more than 25 per cent.
I "It is strongly indicative of the ne
cessity for future legislation that no
definite rule for computation of any
requisite percentage of signers is de
clared, while under the constitutional
as to initiative of legislation
the basis is there prescribed as 'the
whole number of votes cast for secre
tary of state at the regular election
last preceding the filing of the peti
tion.'
I
The Times-Record's phone is No. 4.
Many Eminent Artists
to Appear This Season
MEXICAN TROOPS WILL
HUNT VILLA AND BAND
Chihuahua City, Mexico, Sept. 9.—
Mexican troops are preparing to take
the field in a vigorous offensive
against Villa and his bandits, report
ed to be in the Santa Clara canyon.
This announcement was made by
Gen. Jecinto Trevino today following
a conference with other prominent
generals of the Carranza government.
General Trevino withheld details of
the plans formulated but said 15
pieces of artillery of 75 and 80 milli
meters calibre have been sent from
Monterey for the campaign.
Former Valley City Girl Weds
Valley City friends of Miss Sarah
Wright will be interested to learn of
her marriage on Saturday, Sept. 2, at
her home in Bozeman, Mont., to Har
vey Cox, who is a druggist at Boze
man. The couple left for Chicago,
Washington, New York and Philadel
phia, and they will be at home at
Bozeman after Oct. 1. The bride is the
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Morris
Wright, and the family formerly re
sided in Valley City. During the sum
mer Mrs. Cox visited here for two
weeks as the guest of Miss Ruth
Myhre. Hearty congratulations and
best wishes are extended.
Professor Wanner's
Body Is Discovered
Sunday in Jim River
The funeral for the late Prof. Theo.
Wanner, whose body was found in the
James river Sunday, was held from
the home of his sister-in-law, Mrs.
Fred Wanner, at Jamestown, at 10:30
a. m. today. It was private, only
relatives and a few intimate friends
attending.
Dr. C. H. Phillips, pastor of the
First Congregational church of James
town officiated. At noon the body was
taken to Pingree, where interment will
be made in the family lot.
Prof. Theo. Wanner disappeared
from the home of Mrs. Fred Wanner
Thursday morning. Search was kept
up all the time until Sunday at noon,
when the body was found. "Death by
drowning" was the verdict of the cor
oner's jury.
Professor Wanner had been under
great mental strain for some time,
having studied very hard at the uni
versity of Wisconsin, where he worked
for his doctor of philosophy degree.
The fact of his resignation from the
faculfy of Fargo college also seemed
to have preyed upon his mind. He
also seemed dissatisfied with his posi
tion with the Science school at Wah
peton, being afraid that the order of
things would not work well.
He was 40 years of age. He had
been identified with Fargo college for
six years, being head of the physics
and chemistry department. He was
at one time superintendent of schools
at Wahpeton, and formerly an instruc
tor at Wimbledon.
While in Fargo he resided on Sixth
street south with his mother. He was
well liked and made a large circle of
friends.
He is survived by his mother, two
brothers, E. G. Wanner, secretary of
the board of control at Bismarck, and
Dr. Wanner, of Wimbledon and his
sister-in-law, Mrs, Fred Wanner, at
Jamestown. Mrs. Roy Sweetman, of
Fargo, is a niece.
Earl Noltimier, of Montpelier, was
a caller in Valley City on Saturday,
stopping at the Valley Hotel.
THIRD PITCHFORK ACCIDENT
OCCURS AT JAMESTOWN
Jamestown, Sept. 11.—A series of
accidents from jumping upon pitch
forks have occurred recently and the
third one is reported today. Theodore
Konkel, a young man 19 years of age,
who has been working for Richard
Bouch, near Fried, for a couple of
weeks, was in an empty grain wagon
and tossed a pitchfork out, the tines
sticking in the ground, leaving the
handle standing upright. On getting
out of the wagon the'young man jump
ed backwards, and accidentally struck
the handle of the pitchfork, causing
a serious and terribly painful injury,
the handle penetrating the rectum. He
was brought to the Parkview hospital
as soon as possible, his injuries treat
ed and an operation was performed
by Dr. DePuy this afternoon. His con
dition was considered serious and he
bled profusely. His father lives in
Marian, Wis. Young Konkel, although
a stranger at the Bouch farm, was
liked and much sympathy was express
ed for him.
ESTABLISHED 1879
Mme. Edna Swanson Ver Haar, pop
ular contralto who assisted at the last
music festival in the Normal school
auditorium, will return on Oct. 10 to
give an entire evening's program as
the opening number of the annual Pre
Festival Concert series announced by
the department of music.
Mme. Ver Haar made many friends
during her two-day visit in Valley City
last June, and comes back at the re
quest of scores of music lovers who
delighted in her work at that time.
Natural talent, charming and magnetic
personality, gracious appearance and
her ability to reach the hearts of her
admirers with her songs will, undoubt
edly, bring Mme. Ver Haar a generous
welcome here next month.
It was originally planned to open the
course with the appearance of Tilly
Koenen, the celebrated Dutch contral
to. But owing to travel conditions
which exist on account of the war, this
artist will not be able to book passage
for America before late November,
and will make her appearance in the
auditorium in December.
Tilly Koenen is among the few ar
tists who have attained the distinction
of continuously drawing crowded
houses in such cities as Berlin, Mun
ich, Leipsig, Dresden, Amsterdam, Bu
dapest and London. So permanent has
been Tilly Koenen's success in Europe
that not until the spring of 1914, could
she be persuaded to leave the country
in which she was so firmly established.
Last spring she scored what has been
termed one of the greatest successes
in her already brilliant career, when
she sang at the Beethoven festival in
London.
This year's concert series also in
cludes a program by Senor Antonio
Sala, the celebrated Spanish cellist.
While only 21 years of age, this re
markable young artist has already be
come cellist at the Spanish court, a
coveted honor. That Sala is exempt
from military service and able to make.
his present American tour is due to
the intervention of King Alfonso. He
was soloist at the coronation concert
in f911.
But Sala's reputation is not confined
to Spain. In Paris he has been declar
ed by competent authorities to be one
of the finest violoncellists in the world.
His name on the concert bills of that
great cosmopolitan center always
guarantees a full concert hall.
Both Antonio Sala and Mme. Ver
Haar have been engaged as soloists
with the Minneapolis Syrfiphony or
chestra for the coming season.
What will in all probability be the
last American concert tour of the
Zoellner string quartet will bring them
back to the Normal school-auditorium
this season. This brilliant quartet,
consisting of a father, daughter and
two sons, presented with a silver
medal by the countess of Flanders,
mother of the present king of Bel
gium has appeared here several times.
Their increasing popularity with each
succeeding appearance has induced
the management to include them again
on their final tour.
Roscoe Kimball, the eminent Amer
ican tenor, who has been brought to
the front in the musical world by his
achievement in the last two or three
years, has also been engaged for a re
cital during the season.
I The sixth number of the course is
now being arranged for in the east by
Dean Woodhams, who left some days
ago after having spent his vacation
at Dent, Minn., and will be announced
in a few days.
"Every effort is being put forth to
bring to Valley City some of the finest
artists, and this year's course will far
exceed that of any other year, both
from a monetary and an artistic stand
point," writes Mr. Woodhams.
THROUGH CITY WITH PRISONERS
D, J. McGillis passed through the
city Monday evening with four prison
ers from Minot, bound for service for
the state in the penitentiary at Bis
marck.
Father Baker Is Victim
of Automobile Thieves
Monday evening Father Baker, of
the local Catholic parish, had the mis
fortune to have his automobile stolen
from the rear of the church about JO
o'clock. No clue to the parties who
took the car have as yet been found.
The automobile was a Studebaker
six-cylinder roadster and an exception
ally fine machine. There was a large
aluminum plate on the box back of
the driver's seat which made it quite
noticeable. It was the onlv car of its
kind in this vicinity. From the fact
that the car was a present from-his
congregation last year makes the own
er feel the loss most keenly.
Whether the' car was really stolen
or taken by joy riders is not yet cer
tain. Sheriff Kelly and the city offi
cers were notified of the disappear
ance last night and have been sleuth
ing to the best of their ability. It is
hoped the culprits may be landed and
given the extreme penalty of the law.
We know from experience that this
sort of thing is becoming altogether
too common, and an example should
be made of the perpetrators.
