THE BARRE BAILY TIME
VOL. XX NO. 154.
BAHHK, VERMONT, THURSDAY. SHPTEMllKK 14, 1910.
PRICK. ONE CENT.
GAINS BY
. THE FRENCH
Fall of Combles Town Seems
Imminent as French
Draw Nearer
INTERNATIONAL
GUARD PLANNED
GERMANS LOSE
TRENCH SYSTEM
French Troops Hold Salient
Driven into German
Lines
To Patrol Botder Joint Mexico Com
mission is Busied with Dis
cussing Problem.
New London. Conn., Sept. 1 1. Sugges
tion a to what methods shall be em
ployed to establish peace on the Mexican
border were submitted yesterday to Ma
jor-General Tasker H. Bliss, U. S. A., by
tho American members of the American
Mexican ioint commission. The officer'
opinions were ouizht on subject rang
ing from tho wisdom of withdrawing
American troops from Mexico to the pos.
sibility of creating Mil international po
lice to guard the border. No conclusion,
however, was reached by the coinmis
sioners, who will continue to-day their
conferences with General Hliss.
The joint commission deult yesterday
wholly with questions raised by tax
tion decrees issued by General Carran
za which affects American controlled
mining properties in Mexico. An ex
haustive study of the situation was be
gun wnicn aiso win oe carried on io
dav. The Mexican commissioners ex-
SURRENDER TO
BULGARIANS
Greeks Give Up the Last o
the Forts Defending
Kavala
London, Sept. 14.-The French troops plained in detail the purposes of the de-
. ' ' , ... ... crees and the theories on which they
north of Tcronne are holding tenaciously ww fmm(Ie(1( in(,ilitillK tlnt they were
to the salient they have driven into the designed to promote the mining industry,
German line eastward of the Bethune- not to drive out American capital and
t,., RAn,.liinM. Thev confiscate its holdings.
, i i n x i o !.... I In their conference with General Uliss
also hold intact the town of Buochaves- I he Anifr.ptn tmmiMioMn took lim,
nes and other points along the line cap- consideration the advisability of propos
tured in the offensive which they started jng such a system of border patrol that
Tn.i,i.v .in ,MiHnn nowerfullv or- a portion of the Mexican troops now
. . ,., , , . .!, nf engaged in this duty would be released
canized German trench system south oi . . ... .
. lor me pursuit oi nannus at a distance
the LePriz farm, near the road running fr0n thf ,ml Th ,.ongirtei.ej i.HOi the
west from Rancourt to Combles, has been attjt(lde of Americans livinc along the
captured, placing Combles in "ner border, as reported by General Bliss, and
jeopardy. obtained from that officer estimates as
Hie righting in tne reg.on oi '"'- t0 the number of soldiers it would be
vesnes has been sanguinary, f inding neoMsary to emplov to put into effect
ihai. the French had cut their line Ot 1, . ' ...... v.
.. .. - any oi mo pians iimt nnte uccu eng
the Germans threw violent attack fc
against L'Abbe wood and hill 76, south of
IN NORTHEASTERN
PART OF GREECE
Warships of the Allies Have
Removed Soldiers Riot
ing at Kavala
Boucha vesnes, and succeeded in recaptur
ing both nlaces. The French, however,
returnedH-ieiouslv to the attack and aft
er hard fiirhtinz. some of it hand-to-
hand, finally drove out the Germans and
kent the crnund tliev had won. In the
two days' fighting more than 2,3(10 Ger
mans were taken prisoner, and a largo
number of guns and machine guns captured.
LOWDEN WINS IN ILLINOIS.
GERMANS ATTEMPT TO
REGAIN LOST GROUND
Named as Republican Candidate for Gov
ernorDunne for Democrats.
Chicago, Sept. 14. Former Congress
man rrank- l. Ixiwden of Oregon, 111.,
and Gov. Edward F. Dunne, incumbent.
were nominated bv large pluralities for
governor by the Republicans and Demo
crats, respectively, in the Illinois pri
maries yesterday, according to estimates
based on incomplete returns last night.
Lowden carried Chicago bv a plurality
of 40,000 over Morton D. Hull of Chicago,
second man, returns from one-third of
the city indicated. Frank L. Smith of
Dwight, 111., ran a poor third in Chicago.
Down-state returns indicated a heavy
plurality for Lowden with Smith running
close to Hull. Estimates based on in-
Athens, Wednesday, via London, Sept
14. I he British legation to-day in
formed American Minister Garrett Drop
pers tliat the Greeks have surrendered to
the Bulgarians the last of the forts de
fending the seaport of Kavala in north
eastern Greece. Several of the forts were
occupied sometime ago by the Hulga-
rians.
Warships of the allies have removed
1,500 Greek soldiers to Thasos. Rioting
at Kavala is reported. House and shops
have been pillaged. A number of Amer
icans are endangered, as is property of
the American Tobacco companies to the
amount of more than $2,000,000. No
ships are permitted to remain in the
harbor.
SUED FOR PARDON SERVICE.
Tried Last Night to Drive the French
From Territory Recently Cap
tured, But Fail
Paris, Sept. 14. The Germans made complete returns from the entire state
vigorous efforts last night to drive the put lowden s plurality at more than
French from the territory captured re- 1.50,000.
centlv on the Somme and Verdun fronts. Dunne apparently carried Chicago over
The war office announced their repulse in iHiam B. Bnnton of Dixon, 111., by
several assaults north and south of the more tnan Td.uou and running on tne oa
sis of about two to one over Jtsnnton
down-state.
Max Baum Alleges He Aided in Securing
Morse's Release.
Xew York, Sept. 14 Charles W. Morse,
head of the recently organized L'nited
States Steamship company, has been sued
for $100,000 in the supreme court here,
it was learned last night, by Max C.
Baum, a real estate dealer, who alleges
he performed certain services which aid
ed Morse in obtaining his release from
the federal prison at Atlanta, Ga., in
January, 1012.
Baum alleges that it was through his
efforts chiefly that President Taft par
doned the steamship man. He seeks
compensation for circulating petitions
and investigating the jury which con
vieted Morse.
REGULAR SCHEDULES
ARE MAINTAINED
But Employes on Elevated and Subway
in New York Declare They Are Long
Way from Being Defeated.
Xew York, Sept. 14. Despite the main
tenance of regular schedules on the sub
way and elevated lines of the lnterbor
ough Rapid' Transit company and the
gradual restoration of service on the sur
face lines, the leader of the striking
railway employes declared to-day tha
thev were far from being defeated. They
hinted that the danger of a sympathetic
strike was not yet over. Traction ofll
cials asserted to-day that it wis no long
er necessary to hire strikebreakers,
claiming that hundreds of former em
ployes have returned to work.
hive trolley cars came together In l
series of rear-end collisions on the West
Chester avenue line in the Bronx to-dav
and 10 passengers were injured, one se
riously. I lie accident occurred at the
foot of a steep incline and the car crews
who, it is said, were strikebreakers,
claimed the rails were greased so the
brakes would not hold.
Four-Story Building Collapses.
Toledo, O., Sept. 14. More than one
hundred persons narrowly missed death
ast night, when a four-story brick
building on Summit strcit. the city's
main thoroughfare, collapsed with but
ittle warning and tumbled into the
street crowdede with shoppers and the
atregoers.. The crash wa heard Several
blocks.
Escapes Polio, Victim of Meningitis.
St. Albans, Sept. 14. Christine Eli
beth, two-year-old daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. r . K. Montgomery of Stamford,
'onn., who, with her little brother, had
been here with her mother the past two
month on account of the infantile pa
ralysis epidemic in the vicinity of Stam-
ord, died yesterday morning of cerebral
meningitis. Burial will take place when
the father arrives.
MOXTFELIER
Somme and east of the Meuse at Vaux
Chapitre wood.
ON THE MACEDONIAN FRONT.
Serbians Capture Bulgarian Trenches
Near Vetrenik and Heights.
Paris, Sept. 14. Serbians and Bulga
rians are engaged in violent fighting on
the Macedonian front. The war office
announced to-dav that the Serbains had
captured Bulgarian trenches near Vetre
nik and the height northwest of Lake
Ostrovo. An engagement south of the
lake turned in favor of the allies.
London, Sept. 14. "There has been
considerable activity on both our Struma
and Doiran fronts," says the official re
port to-day regarding the Macedonian
campaign. ' Our patrols have been active
on the east banks of the struma.
GERMANY WILL SEND 200,000
To Help in the Offensive Campaign in the
Balkans.
London, Sept. 14. A wireless press de
spatch from Rome says that at the gen
eral council of the central powers at
headquarters of the German emperer re
cently, the offensive campaign in the
Balkans was mapped out and that Ger
many will send 200,000 men and Austria
100,1100 for the purpose.
BRITISH MAKE PROGRESS
But General Situation on Somme Front
Is Unchanged.
London, Sept. 14. The British have
made further progress on the Somme
front north of Cinehy, it was announced
officially to-day. The general situation
is unchanged, however, the statement
says.
PAY FOR BAY STATE TROOPS.
Massachusetts Will Pay Its Men on Bor
der $10 a Month.
Boston, Sept. 14. The general court
yesterday made such progress in the
work of its special session which began
Tuesday that prorogation is probable
to-day, according to its leaders.
Both branches passed bills providing
for pay of $10 a month to the troops on
the Mexican border, validating the acts
of cities and town in paying the salaries
oi their employes who went to the front
and in extending aid to their dependents
and extending to the legal voters serving
with the guardsmen the right to vote
for federal officials in the November elec
tion.
WILSON MAKING
CAMPAIGN PLANS
BOOST IN MILK STIRS TJP U. S.
SITUATION IS UNCHANGED.
Rumanian Troops Have Repulsed At
tacks By the Germans.
Tetrograd. via London, Sept. 14. The
Rumanian troops have repulsed a series
of attacks by the Germans and Bulga
rians in Dobrudia, the war office an
nounced to-day. The situation on the
Galician front is unchanged.
WILL NOT REMAIN.
Effort to Keep Premier Zaimis in Office
Has Been Fruitless.
Athens, Tuesday, via London (delayed)
Sept. 14. Every effort to persuade Alex
ander Zaimis, the aged premier, to re
main in office has been fruitless. His
pride was wounded by the appearance of
the allies' fleet off Piraeus at the very
moment when negotiations had begun for
the entry of Greece into the war.
The arrest of Austrian and Germans
in Athens by French-British agents and
the invasions of the French legation by
the Russians, taken in conjunction with
the continued internal discord in the face
of a great national crisis completely dis
couraged the entire cabinet, and the re
sult ws not only to precipitate the re
tirement of the Zaimis ministry but to
bring to a standstill and possibly even to
an end all discussion of the departure
from neutrality by Greece.
"We hope the entente now see where
the policy of trying to force matter
leads," said a prominent Greek official to
the Associated Pre to-day.
Federal Government Starts Inquiry Into
Conditions.
Washington, Sept. 14. A national in
quiry into the cost of producing milk and
the justification for the threatened raise
in prices wag yesterday announced by
the agriculture department.
The first formal action will be taken
to-day, when milk producers from sev
eral eastern states will confer with de
partment officials. W. J. Spillman of the
office of farm management, B. If. Rawl,
chief of the dairy division, and Depart
ment Solicitor Frank D. Caffy will be in
charge of the government effort.
Spillman yesterday said he would ap
point a special investigator, an expert of
national reputation, to study conditions!
throughout the L nited States to learn
whether producers would be justified in a
general price raise.
Greater Attention to Be Paid to Cam
paigna in the Western
States.
Long Branch, X. J., Sept. 14. Presi
dent Wilson to-dav for the first time
gave detailed consideration to the cam
paign for his re-election when he went
over the report from political leaders of
various states and began mapping out
his plans tor the next two months.
As a result of the conferences, it was
indicated that greater attention will be
paid to the campaigns in Oregon, W ash-
ington, t'tah and California, reports in
dicating that the Democratic, prospects
in tliose states are excellent.
WILL RESPECT OPEN DOOR.
Japan Does Not Intend to Depart From
Established Policy.
Washington, D. C, Sept. 12. Japan in
a formal note to Ambassador Guthrie,
transmitted to the state department to
day, assures the American government
that the new Russo- Japanese treaty
does not repeal the former conventions
and that the imperial government has
not entertained for a moment any inten
tion to depart from its policy respecting
the integrity of China and the 'open door.
Both Japan and Russia have now giv
en the I nited States formal assurances
in regard to the matter, in response to
inquiries. Department oniclals let It be
known that the statements are entirely
satisfactory and inquiries regarding the
new treaty, over which they had been
considerably perturbed, will not be
pressed further.
GILLIS WIQUEST.
125 CITIES SEEK ARMOR PLANT.
$11,000,000 U. S. Establishment Starts a
Contest.
Washington, Sept. 14. The tale of
125 cities yesterday were poured into the
willing ears of the naval board charged
with the job of picking a site for the
government's $11,000,000 armor plate
plant. The board, headed by Sec. Dan
iels, consists of Asst. Sec. Roosevelt, Ad
miral Benson and Rear Admiral Strauss.
Beginning at 9:30 o'clock thev heard
one delegation after another on the mer
its of their respective communities. Lat
er they will read a great stack of briefs.
brought or sent, from various cities.
To Notify Marshall.
Indianapolis, Sept. 14. Vice-President
1 nomas Marshall returned here yester
day from Missouri in readiness for the
ceremony to-night at which he will be
notified formally of his renomination for
vice-president by the Democratic nation
al convention at St. Louis last June. The
vice-president, who was accompanied by
his wife, was met at the station hv a
reception committee of twenty-five local
Democrat.
Quiet Wedding of Graniteville Quarry-
man and Barre Young Woman.
A quiet wedding took place at the
Presbyterian manse at 8 o'clock last
evening when Miss Hazel Wiqnest was
united in marriage to John L. Gillis, Rev.
Edgar Crossland performing the cere
mony. The couple were unattended and
after a short honeymoon they will take
up their residence In Graniteville, where
the groom is employed as a quarryman.
IS LOSING STRENGTH.
Pres. Wilson't Sister Reported Weaker
To-day.
Xew London, Conn., Sept. 14. Mrs.
Anne Howe, President Wilson s sister,
was reported weaker to-day.
A. Rone, returned to the city yester
day after passing several days in Xew
York on business.
i
Refined Sugar Goes Up.
San Francisco, Sept. 14. The price of
refined sugar, which a week ago was cut
o cent a Hundred pounds, wa raised
yesterday, it wa announced here, 15
cents a hundred. Heavy trading in raw
sugar in Xew York vis given a the
reason. Refined sugar i now quoted at
$1.40 a hundred pounds more than on
the first dar of the Tear.
To Build a New Center Span.
Ottawa, Ont, Sept. 14. The St.
Lawrence Bridge company ha notified
the Canadian government that it ac
cepts full responsibility for the fall of
the Quebec bridge span and gave notice
that it would undertake to replace the
span as soon as possibl.
With steel scarce, it is believed it will
take two years to construct a new span.
It was stated definitely that no attempt
would be made to raise the fallen span
from th bottom of the St. Lawrence
river. It would be cheaper, it was ex
plained, to build a new one.
Thirteen Quebec Victim.
Quebec, Sept. 14. Another victim waa
added yesterday to the list of killed in
the bridge tragedy of Monday, bringing
the list of dead iu to 13.
Candidate Hughes Rests.
Bridgehampton, X. Y Sept. 14.
Charle E. Hughes rented from his cam
paign activitw- to-day at his summer
home here. lie spent moet of the day
with, member of hi family or riding.
In probate court Clark H. Stewart has
been appointed administrator of the es
tate of Helen M. Taft, late of Berlin
Charles II. Howland of Cabot has settled
his account as guardian of Martha I.
eniston. Myron R. Goodspeed has set
tied his account as guardian of Ruth J
llewett and has been appointed admin
istrator of the estate of Ruth J. Hewett
Manda Hvinne has been appointed admin
istratrix of the estate of Carleton K
Kinne. Mrs. Marv F. Cutler has resumed
her duties as registrar after having en
joyed a vacation, which she passed in
ells Kiver
The following cases were entered ves
terday afternoon in county court: Jo
sephine Emmons vs. Fllen,, Marcette
foreclosure; Jeanette IT. Barlow vs. Al
bert Barlow, divorce, and Mabel E. Hick
ins vs. John C. Hickins, uivorce
Michael Hammon of Xew York plead
ed guilty in city court this forenoon to
first offense of intoxication and was fined
$.1 and costs which he was unable to pay
and went to jail for tne alternative sen
tenre. Hammon was found near the. Mid
dlesex underpass late yesterday after
noon and brought to jail by the jitney
method
J. W. Titcomb of Lyndonville. fish and
game commissioner, was a visitor in the
citv to-dar.
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Tierce of Boston
are visiting in the city with his parents
on Liberty street for a week.
Lrnian F. Sumner is taking a few
days' vacation from his duties as ticket
agent at the Central Vermont station
and went to-day to Manchester, X". H., to
visit friends
The condition of, Gerald Taylor, who
was operated upon at Heaton hospital
yesterday morning, was reported about
the same to-dav, although still critical
J. P. Gallaher, local station agent for
the Central ermoni, railroad, has gone
to Xew l ork City on a brief business
visit.
Henry W. Cate of Liberty street is
taking his annual two weeks' vacation
from his duties as clerk in the local post-
office.
Mr. and Mrs. A. Bernadini of Main
treet returned last evening from a mo
tor trip to Boston, Mass., and Concord,
X. H. where they visited relative.
William Xicholson and M. D. Schmidt
of Boston, employed by the Brunswicke-Balke-ColJander
company, left this fore
noon for Boston after having been in the
city during the week, repairing the bowl
ing alleys in the Imperial on State street.
The alleys have been placed in excellent
shape for the coming season.
William Corry. E. A. Harris. C. E.
Cookson and Ernest Ki?er of the Tenney
company went to-day to Burlington,
where they took a boat for an island in
Lake Champlain. where a meeting of
electrical experts is being held.
Mr. and Mrs. J. A. Siblry and Mr. and
Mrs. H. W. Cate motored yesterday to
Hyde Park, where they called on Senator
Page and were presented when Congress
man Greene and other prominent Yer-
monters congratulated the senator on his
nomination.
Harrv Woodard. who has been em-!
ployed in the city during the summer.
left last evening for Boston, where he
will resume his studies at Harvard Den
tal school.
Rev. William Shaw, pastor of Trinity
church. has gone to the west side of the
state for a few days' trip during which
he will speak at Sunday school meetings.
Rev. Arthur W. Hewitt of Pla infield,
member of the state hoard of education,
was in the city this forxaoon on his way
to Castleton to attend the regular meet
ing of the board.
Attv. Max L. Powell of P-irlingtot! ar
rived in the city this morning and will
remain for several days while participat-;
ing in a county court case.
TO ADVANCE
PRICE OF MILK
Move Made by New England
Producers' Directors
INCREASE EQUAL TO
ONE CENT A QUART
Due to the Increased Cost of
Production and Transportation
Boston, Sept. 14. A recommendation
that producers increase the price of milk
to dealers was voted yesterday by the
directors of the Xew England Milk Pro
ducers' association. They set HO cents as
the price to lie demanded for an eight
and one-half quart can of standard milk
delivered at this city.
Sec. Richard i'attee of Jiaconia, X. II.,
who made the announcement of the di
rectors' action, said this price would be
equivalent to an advance of one cent a
quart over present prices. It was due,
he said, to increased cost of production
nd an advance in the cost of transfor
ation effective Oct. 1.
After the executive committee of the
Xew England Milk Producers' associa-
ion had announced its recommendation
that farmers demand increased prices for
heir product after (Vt. 1, L. S. Dist.
Atty. George W. Anderson stated that
would institute at once an investiga-
ion to determine whether any illegal
combination was concerned in the action.
E. u. Colby of Whiteficld, X. H., presi-
ent of the association, asserted that the
ssociation was within its right and the
aw in its recommendation.
"If the dealers don't give us the price
e ask," he added, "we will supply the
people of Boston ourselves."
Milk contractors representatives said
that if the increase became effective the
consumers would have to pay.
MANY ATTENDED
Funeral of Dr. Mackay from Church at
Peacham.
Peacham. Sept. 14. The funeral of Pr.
Albert J. Mackay wag held from the Con
gregational church Wednesday afternoon
at 2 p. m. Rev. Mr. Carlson, pastor of
the church, officiated and was assisted by
Rev. Francis Ladd of West Barnet.
A large number of the medioal profes
sion were present from the surrounding
towns and the church was filled with
friends and former patients of Dr. Mac
kay with whom he had been helpfully
connected for many years. Manv beau
tiful floral gifts were donated by the
medical profession and other friends.
fhe bearers were: Drs. Ricker, Farmer
and Aldrich of St. Johnsbury and Dr.
Pache of Danville. Other doctors who at
tended were: H. H. Miltimore. W. B.
Fitch, J. R. Allen, E. H. Ross and C. A.
Cramton of St. Johnsbury. Among those
present from out of town were: diaries
Mackav of Berlir-X. H., Stuart Mackay
of Gorham. X. If... J. H. Cairns of Green
field, Mass., Leslie Mackay, Miss Ida
Mackay and Mrs. Scott of Cookshire, P.
Q. The interment was in the Teacham
cemetery.
JOSEPH G. MUDGETT.
Old-Time Resident of Barre Passes Away
in Hi 91t Year.
Joseph Grant Mulgett, nonegenarian
and the last of a family of nine sons, all
of whom lived 80 years or more, passed
sway at the home of Mr. and Mr. W. F
Bradford, M Park street, Wednesday,
Death was due to the infirmities of old
age. Mr. Mudgett t demise brings to its
close a singularly active career and re
moves one of the figures hom the older
generation in Barre are accustomed to
associate with the earlier business life of
the city. The deceased attained his 00th
birthday July 1 and was the guest of
honor on that occasion of a unique anni
versary observance.
He is survived bv his dauchter-in-lavr.
Mr. Fred It. Mudgett, who has been
deeply interested in the welfare of the
deceased in late years; three granddaugh
ters, Mrs. Ruth Esther Bailey of New
bury and Misses Har.el and Zelda Mud
gett of Alenieda, Cal.j a grandson, Fred
G. Mudgett of San Francisco, Cal.; and
a nephew, Iwis J. Mudgett of Barre. A
son, Fred B. Mudgett, died in Barre 12
years ago and a second son, Edwin A.
Mudgett, passed away in San Francisco
three years ago. His granddaughter,
Mi Monti Mudgett, died eight years
ago. His wife, who was Minnie E. Ewell,
died in Barre eight years ago last July,
her demise antedating that of their
grandila lighter two weeks.
Mr. Mudgett waa born in Stockton,
Me., July 1, lS2(i. As a young man he
was employed bv the government at V
nal Haven. Me., then at Rockland and
later in Portland, where he earned the
confidence of many persons in official life.
For some years he was a moving spirit in
the Carter Granite Co. at Ryegate and
afterward he was identified at one time
and another with Charles W. Averill and
Luther Town in the City Fish market
here in Barre. Shortly after the death of
his wife he went to California and there
resided in Alemeda until the spring of
1018. His desire to return to Barre,
where many of his former business ac
tivities were centered, and where inti
mate relatives had found their last rest
ing places, prompted him to make the
trans-continental trip in May. Despite
his advanced years he endured the trip
well, arriving in Barre May 13. A fort
night later he began to decline in health
and throughout the summer those near
mm ieit tnat tne end was not far away.
His illness was marked by a rare degree
of patience and fortitude.
Obedient to a wish long ago expressed
and carefully cherished during his latter
years, Mr. Mudgett's remains are to be
interred in the family lot at Hope ceme
tery beside the body of his wife. Funer
al services will be held Friday afternoon
at 2:30 o'clock at the home of Mr. and
Mrs. Bradford, where he had lately re
sided. Rev. W. J. M. Beattie, rector of
the Church of the t,ood Shepherd, will be
the officiating clergyman.
HULBURD WINS
IN PRIMARY
Defeated V ks by 500 for
Second .ace on the
Si j Ticket
LATE.V .ETURNS
ALT , FIRST REPORTS
Total of Over 40,000 Votes
Cast in Tuesday's
Primaries
Revised and nearly complete return
from the state change the previously in
dicated victory of John E. Weeks into a
defeat by Roger W. llulhurd as the Re
publican candidate for lieutenant-governor.
With returns complete except re
ports from 21 small towns, the total give
Mr. Hulburd 15,44d and Mr. Weeks 14.
&:S7, a majority of 500 for Mr. Hulburd.
The final figures (21 small towns ex
cepted) five l'nited States Senator Car
loll S. Pane 2.,7SOi Allen M. Fletcher,
8,S7(i; Governor Charles W. Gates, 7,V'";
for state auditor, Benjamin Gates, 14,087,
Thomas H. Cave, jr., 12,."ij0.
An interesting fact in connection with
the primary for l'nited States senator is
that 42,21 1 votes were cast for the three,
candidates.
GOV. GATES CONGRATULATES PAGE
McCARTY SENT TO PRISON.
Gets Three Years for Murderous Assault
on Ross.
Woodsville, X. H., Sept. 14. In supe
rior court yesterday, Thomas McCarty
pleaded guilty of assault with intent to
murder Robert Ross, a fellow laborer, in
a West Thornton lumber camp. He was
sentenced to from three to five years in
state prison. McCarty, while intoxicated
last August, attacked Ross with an axe.
J. A. Martel pleaded guilty of obtain-
ng money under false pretenses and w as
given one year in jail.
Brattleboro Veteran Dead.
Rrattleboro, Sept. 14 John 1'armenter
Washburn, 82 years old, a veteran of the
iv il war in which he served in two (lif
erent regiments, died about 6 o'clock
esterday morning at his home, 18 West
ern avenue. He had been in poor health
6 years but an attack of grip was the
irect eaue of death.
Mr. Washburn was born in Milton,
Canada, in 1S34. He leaves a wife, one
daughter, Mrs. E. G. Phillips of Spring
field, .Mass., and three sisters. lie was
a member of Sedgwick post, G. A. R.
SUNDAY SCHOOL PICNIC.
Children of Congregational Church, with
Their Elders, Have Enjoyable Outing.
Children of the Congregational Sunday
school gathered at Caledonia park Wed
nesday afternoon for their annual out
ing. All of the loO young people who
left for the park by special car were
accompanied by teachers and it was un
der the direction of the older ones that a
substantial luncheon was prepared at the
dinner hour. There was nothing of
restraint in the program of children's
games provided and an afternoon crowd
ed to the limit w ith games and competi
tions passed quickly.
The results of the races are summarized
as follows: Dash for bovs over 10 years.
llfred Eisenwinter first, D. Wendell
Smith second; for boys under 10, Eugene
Pierce first, John Corskie second; race
for girls over 10, Ruth McKnight first,
Jesnnette Corskie second; for girls un
der 10, Rachel Spear first, Doris Wyllie
second; one-legged race, Charles Collins;
one-legged race for girls, May Wyllie;
race for girls under seven years, Barbara
Hamilton; race for boys over seven years,
tllifton Moore; race for campfire girls,
Katherine Rogers.
The committee consisted of Rev. J. W.
Barnett, J. C. Griggs, Mrs. Eiserwinter.
Mr9. Isabelle Ewen and Mrs. C. A. Spear.
As Does Also Congressman Greene and
Party From St. Albans.
Hyde Park, Sept. 14. A delegation of
on representative citizens from St. Al
bans came by auto to this place yester
day to congratulate Senator Page upon
ins nomination oy tne republicans ot
Vermont for another term in the l'nited
States Senate.
The party reached here about 3 o'clock
in 10 machines decorated with flags and
bunting. Senator Page was most hap
pily surprised by the visit. Impromptu
speeches were made by Congressman
Frank L. Greene, Editor John T. dishing
of the St. Albans Messenger, Roger W.
Hulburd, C. G. Austin and R. F. Drennan
and others, and were feelingly responded
to by Senator Page. He thanked the
party for the visit and expressed his
gratification over the magnificent vote
given him Tuesday. Cigars, lemonade
and oda were served.
Senator Page has received many, tele
grams of congratulation from all parts of
the state, including very felicitous greet
ings from Gov. Gates.
Poulin Renominated.
Rutland, Sept. 14. Returns in this
county on the result of Tuesday's prima
ry came in very slowly, and it was not
until late yesterday afternoon that the
figures from some of the smaller towns
were gathered, and the result in the
warmest state's attorney fight that the
county has ever known was definitely de
termined. C. V. Poulin of this city, the
incumbent, had only 87 votes to spare to
secure renomination. The result was:
Poulin, 2,3.51; John S. Buttles, Brandon,
2,264; George M. Goddard, Rutland, 1,257.
TALK OF THE TOWN
LOSS IN HOTEL FIRE $:S,000.
Farmhouse in Goshen Burned.
Brandon, Sept. 14. The large farm
house belonging to Fav Chamberlin in
Goshen was burned to the ground, to
gether with a shed adjoining, and most
of the household furniture, late Tuesday
afternoon. The cause of the fire is un
known. The property "was partly in
sured.
TALK OF THE TOWN
Lake-View-Pines Fire Started from Fire
place. Poultney, Sept. 14 The loss ocsasioned
by the burning of Lake-View-Pine hotel
at Lake St. Catherine early yesterday
morning is placed by one of the owners
at $25,000, partially covered by insur
ance. Xo light waa shed on the origin
of the fire, but it is believed to have
started from a fireplace as a fire had
been started the previous evening in the
grate in the parlor by employes, who
were the only persons remaining in the
building, the hotel having been closed
for the season.
All of the contents of the building
were destroyed including the hotel fur
nishings, a large stock of groceries, and
the trunks and personal belongings of the
employes.
HARLEY 0. HOLT.
Miss Flora McDonald, who has been
in the city for several weeks, returned! an attack f the grip,
to Sugar Hill, X". H., where she w ill re-1 For many years Mr.. Holt was in the
sume her duties as table waitress until mercantile bu'iness at Derby. He moed
the end of the month. ito this town about 20 years ago and en-
A copy of the Outlook containing a tered the employ of C. F. Ranney Si Co..
full-page illustration of one of Barre's stationers. He retired from active life
largest granite quarries is exhibited in! about 10 years ago.
the north display window at the Cum- Mr. Holt i survived by his wife. The
mings & I-ewis pharmacy. funeral will be held Friday fternoon
Wallace Lever of Vershire passed land hurial will be in the family lot at
The farm buildings on tne. lone brook ' through the nty this morning en route ' Derby.
road near Mort peiier, owned by O. J., for Moore Folks. . ., where he will I
f.ross. were burned to the ground late join Mrs. Lover and son, William, who
yesterday morning. Mr. Gross and one.hate been visiting friend and relative
son had gone to the Mate fair at White during the past two weeks.
River Junction and Mrs. Gross and baby Itanicl Keefe of Richmond, a 1!1
were the only persons in the house. An j graduate of Goddard seminary, w ho has
exploding lamp on the second floor of j he n playing baseball in Washington and
the rtouse caused the fire. Xeighhors ; Caledonia counties this summer, left last
hurried to Mrs. Gro-s' atitnce. but j night for Middlebury, where he i to
were able to save only part of the furni- enroll s a student in Middlebury cul
ture. Insurance eovrn the . The ! 1. re. Keefe i a candidate for the college
Gros family moved to the firm early in ' f,tbIl team thi year, having gained a j
Dies at His Home in Newport at the Age
of 86 Years.
Xewport. Sept. 14. ifarlev O. Holt. 86
years old, died at his home here early
yesterday morning, having been in poor driven at a fast clip, turned the corner
Arthur York of Sodom was among the
business visitors in the city yesterday,
Peter Bainbridge and Kdward David
son have gone to Toledo, O., where they
expect to be employed.
Miss Ella Holden returned to her home
in Burlington this morning, after visit
ing friends in South Barre during the
past week.
Mrs. Ired Miers, formerly of this place.
but now of Haverhill, Mass., arrived in
the city yesterday and will visit friends
for a few days.
Miss Amelia Marteau arrived Tuesday
from Franklin, XT. H., and commenced
work yesterday in the millinery parlors
of Mrs. Stella I.aviolette.
Franklin Jackson, who has been visit
ing relatives on Circle street during the
past two weeks, left this morning for
his home in St. Albans.
John R. Wilson of Worcester, secretary
of the Washington County Veterans' as
sociation, is passing several days with
his daughters, Mrs. Blanche Xourse and
Miss Georgia Wilson.
The case of City vs. G. Solani, charged
with a violation of the city ordinances
in riding a bicycle on the sidewalk, was
set to-day for this afternoon. City At
torney AVilliam Wishart instituted pro
ceedings against the respondent after
South Main street residents had com
plained of the alleged violation. A war
rant was served on Saloni by Oflicer
David Henderson. Saloni's case is the
first of its kind to be brought by the
city in several years, although when
bicycling was at its height, the authori
ties took drastic measures to keep the
two-wheelcrs in the street.
A team that was passing along Pros
pect street last evening had what looked
to be a narrow escape from a severe ac
cident when the horse, which was being
health for the last vear as a result of! at the junction of Prospect and Xorth
Mam streets with the wagon slewing as
it hit the stfne pavement until the
wheels hit the curb on the opposite side
of the street. As the wapon hit the curb
the contents in t!e rear of the buggy
jolted out and were strewn over the road
ami sidewalk, but the three passengers
were able to stay seated and no injuries
occurred.
IVii?ls M. Barclay of Franklin street
returned to the city yesterday from Xew
York, w here he has been making a bus
iness visit of several dvs in the inter
est of Barclay Bros. During his ab
sence Mr. Bjr.Uy made arrangements
for the shipment of a (VMon derrick
which i t be use.! on a big derrick
St. Albans. Sept. 14 A party of offi-; ere. te 1 recently at the Standard Gran
cials of the Central Vermont railway left ' ilf ( quarri.- in upper Graniterilie.
yesterday morning on an inspection tripjThe device ordered by the company
over the lines. In the party were in. In d earlv in the sprin;. but numerous delay
ed E. J. Chamberlin of Montreal, chair-'have deferred its shipment until now.
man of the road; Edward C. Smith of In the interim, the quarries are aeiitf
INSPECT C. V. LINES.
J. Chamberlin, Chairman, and Pres.
E. C. Smith on Tup with Officials. j
the summer from this ritv. Two rears ! considerable experience in the rndiron this city, rresident : .1. K. Italrrmrde ofithe nc l.rri.k with a makeshift hoist-
ajro the house they occupied on College sport under the tntelape of (Vach C. L. I Montreal, vice-prei dent, and other offi r atta fel. The new device Will sret
ftreet was burned. Hocmlc at fhe seminary. rials. Ij imrea- tuc effkicney of the derrick.
