1
?ie ffucumeari Tlews
A Advertisers Know Where to 9
A Place Their Ads A
ft
Largest Circulation of Any 0
C& Paper in (tuny Com ' . count
S , QU -
AND TUCUMCARI TIMES
TUCUMCAUI, QUAY COUNTY, NEW MEXICO, THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 1910
NO. 51
VOL. XIV.
First Annual Cowboys' General Round-up, October 3d, 4th and 5th $2500.00 in Cash Prizes
LEE ANDERSON CON
FESSES MURDERING
BROTHER-IN-LAW
Saturday morning the murderer of put it over there with the view of
a . I f . I.. 1I.I..I I... Il.l.l WkM M t
George Zant, who wns shot to death j minting peopio uiiiik uu nuu
.ui.il.. lw nlini in it bed iii i s home ted suieiao;
two miles southeast of Tueumcnri, on "No. sir.
Wednesday morning Auk. 30, confess-
To thin he answered,
od to shooting Hunt at 4:30 a. m. The
confession was brought uliout after
u series of attempts hy the following
method:
When it was found that Zant had
been murdered by a person, evidently
He said he just thiew it after he
got through with it.
Mi- said lie iiad never thought of'
killing him until he came out horo a
month ago. He just got to studying
altoul it a day or m before. He did
not plan to do it that night, but when
well acquainted with the immediate he awakened that morning he thought
surroundings, Sheriir Ward and Dep- how easy it would be to go in and
uty Winter began to weave their net kill him while he slept,
so closely that escape wns improbable. He said the little boy was away,
Different clues were worked, lui not mr enuugn iu u nmu mm ..m,
... I tl1 Iff. 4 It mi tent nn unfit
until the arrival oi n. iicrron, ucpuiy y v""-"r - ,
sheriff of Shackleford county, Texas, Znnt in the face. He had thu barrel
were they in a position to draw up or the gun closer man iiueon wicnes
tj,L, nLt when he fired the shot.
After the killing, Lee Anderson, a The above confession is approxi
brother of the murdered man's wife, mutely as Lee Anderson told Mr. Ward
was susplcioned and ever movement "I'd Mr. Herron. He signed the slate
was watched. He became anxious to meat before a notary public in the
find work and in order to keep him presence oi witnesses, no oinor par-
.. ,,...: nr on., i Mm tiiu ties were implicated by Anderson. lie
111.11 UIIUI HI iiv " I ... . . ' , , .
. ... i.i I -.,.,1 iilu uiuIjih tune tihilwiM iillfl lilt fllll
ranch southenst ot town and put mm - '"' ,
to work. not tnink H',e Kaw n,m ut " a'M0
H. Herron arrived Thursday from siud that he did not intend to repori
Albanv. Texas, having been sent here suicidal intent on Ziint s part, but
bv Zunt's brother. He strolled leisur- when Mrs. Ziint suspicioned suicide he
thought that would ie a good wny 10
get out of trouble. He said to Mr.
Herron that he just intended to kill
Zant and tnke the consequences.
The trial will come up at this term
of court, it is thought, as Waller L.
mind would necessarily be a hnrd-
hearted criminal to steal upon a man
who was asleep and shoot him like a
dog. If the young man is not of n
sound mind and is guilty or this out
rageous crime lie should be put whore
public safety will not be impnired.
LOCAL MERCHANT
OUT-BID
MAILORDER
ally around town asking questions
about first one thing, then another.
He was sure he could lay his hand on
the guilty party, but was mistaken.
He then took up another trail and
tiiilw.ftifl In. uiiu fin Hwi iirftfiir mil. Af.
tor deciding there was nothing doing Morris, one of the leading nttornoys
so far. there was only one more place f Albany, Texas, arrived in Tucum-Mi-.
Wii pil iIh.m cari Monday to handle the defendants
mn.li, nnnniremeiit for him n reach He will be assisted by local tnl-
iiuHW'iinil ent. The plea of insanity is perhaps
ask to be allowed to camp over night, the only hope or keeping Anderson
. ci ur id., i-.mi.li .Alum from swinging from the gallows, be-
- tJlll.lill ii lint r ur !. i LI t.f 1 Li
linir.m .li-ftvn nn Mini .iske.l to eamn. cause any man who is in his right
which he permitted and made it n
point that Anderson would iccidentally
nijit Herron, whom he had known for
several years. They rceoi'tv ..oil each
other and Herron asked 'phi how he
came to b in this county'.' How long
he had lived here and how lie liked it"
Anderson lold him his sister lived near
Tueumcnri and she and her husband
(Ceo. Zant) liked it line. Herron said
he never mentioned his mission here
but went to bed believing he was or
the right trail.
The next morning he arose early
and met Anderson again. Then he
told Anderson that he wh here at the
request of Joe Zant, the dead man's
brother, to find the murderer and he
had found him. He then asked An
derson why lie did not tell him that
George Zant had been killed, hut An- a mn f10m the Quay neighborhood
derson was surprised at the statement C),mo to town last week with an or
of his old-time friend and was un- ,er nie out to a Kansas City Mail
shaken in his determination to know Order house. He chanced to drop into
nothing of the case. He told Herron n Garrett's and showed Mr. Gar
lie did not like to talk about the death rt!tt the order. He was challenged to
of his lirollierinlaw. Then the deputy dunlicute the order. Mr. Garrett ac-
nut forth his every effort to make the ..noted the challenge and the following
young man confess. He told him the pneos were made, they being the reg
olllcers knew he killed Zant, that his ujHr prices made by Garrett any day
thumb print was on the ciock wnicn i the woef:
was at the head of the bed and moved yu Order Garrett
to the shelf in the room. He also told jo Socks .10
him as further evidence that he (An- i.oo Underwear 1.00
derson) was the only person who knew j .jg Pants 1.75
the exact locntion of the gun and the i.jh; Overalls 2.10
place where the shells were kept. i,r,u Shirts i.20
Mr. Herron worked hard and was oijh Shoes 2.90
about to eive un the tironosition when ,i7 Postage .00
Anderson gave un 'tnd confessed all.
He was brought to town and repeated ijjj fl.0.r
his confession lief ore a stenographer ,m,.. Conner bought his goods from
and notary public. It was copied anil jj,.. (inrrctt after looking every ar
after he hail read same he willingly tide over carefully, and was well pleas
signed it as his free act nnd deed. The e(j because he took the goods back to
. . . I. ..4.. .. I . i i 111 i
I'omession was in huiihuwuiu, uuuut un ntK Home tnat nay nnu am nurimvu w
nous
E-
SAVES
PAYS $3,426.45 TO
FARMERS FOR FORTY
ONE LOADS OF WHEAT
, There is plenty of room for an in-
SPECIAL W A It STAMP TAX Icrcnsc in the export of wheat from tho
IS NOW HISTOHY i Tueumcnri mnrkct hut Mr. Higday,
Contrary to general expectation, the the local buyer, is keeping bufly iond
repeal of the special war stamp tax.jng wheat in enrs for shipment. Pri
on documents and toilet articles he-'day n number of loads came in when
came effective Friday at midnight. It "the mnrket was but $1.42. Snturdny
was thought thnt the Uix would re-j morning found a number of teann in
main in force until the end of the gov- from the plains. Mr. Higdny hnd
eminent fiscal year, Jnnuary 10, 1017. t promised to pay $1.12 Saturday morn-
Thc first word that the repealing
act passed by congress Friday morning
would become effective immediately,
wns received here lute Friday after
noon by K. A. Uumey, collector of in
ternal revenue at bl J'nao, in u tele
gram from A. S. Walker, collector at
A il
AUSIW1.
1 The "war tax" was passed by con
i gross on January 1, 1015, to offset the
, loss in revenue from the trade paraly
, sis caused by the European wur. It
was expected that about $100,000,000
would be raised by the new tax. The
revenue formerly derived from the
stamp tax will now be obtained from
the inheritance tax, the munitions tnx
and miscellaneous excise Uixcb.
The special stamp tax on wines, cor
dials, and beer will still remain in
force. El Paso Herald.
"SCKATCH MM COWBOY"
First Annual Cowboys' General Hon nd-up. Tucumcari, October 3, I, 5, 191.
AUUESTEI) FOU GRAZING
HOUSES ON STATE LAND
i.!..t. .......... ...i ....... -..i.i
n ease wiutn iiiuiitiuu i-uimiuuiiiuiu
MEXICANS HAVE WAU. AUK
AUUESTEI). FINED. MAUUIED
Slii.i'lfr Wnnl wns notified Friday
night that three mexicans were dead attention was that Monday tried lie
in n tnrlit ni'.'ir the demit. He notilied fore Judge McElroy. The plaintilf
the night police ami Akin was on the was .Mr. uaviuson ami me ueienuani
scene within a few minutes. Two Old was Hob Nolle. It seems that Mr.
Mexico mexicans were having trouble Nolle owns and controiis consiueraoie
over a woman one id' them claimed was land iu his immediate vicinity where
his wife. He said the other was trying he hns a uumber of stock. Une ot nis
to stent her away, in other words kid- pastures contains plenty of water and
nan her and Mike her to Kansas with the other had plenty of grass, so he
h m. The woman said she was not ine i uiu a lane worn one puiuiv m uiu
follows
The killing happened about four in
the morning. I killed Zant. I went
to his room and killed him on Wednes
day morning at four o'clock, Aug, 30.
After I killed him I throwed the gun
on the lied and went back and laid
down on the cot again. It wan a few
minutes before Mrs. Zant called to
me. She lold me George had killed
himself, then I went in and put out
the fire on the comfort. The state
ments made by me heretofore are
false, und this is true. The reason for
mo killing Zant was because I had
had trouble with him about three years
ago. When asked if ho slept well dur
ing the night of the killing, he said,
"I slept pretty well, and had only been
awake about thirty minutes before I
went into tho room. I thought I would
1:111 him. I had a pretty good idea
where the gun was and it was already
loaded."
He was asked "When Mrs. Zant call
ed to you you were awake, but lot on
thnt you wore asloup and let nor can
two or three times bctoru you answer
ed?" Ho answofed, "Yea sir."
Wlint wns tho idea when you throw
(he gun down on tho lied; did you
wait and worry over whether his mon
ey order would be lost or whether the
goods wero what he wanted. This is
another example of what a buyer can
In if he takes a little time. Mr. Con
ner could have paid more than he did
and then saved money on tho trans
action, As it wns he saved 2fic.
Moral Trade at home.
SAVE YOUR OLD PAPERS
Tho missionary society of the Moth
oilist church held a meeting this after
noon and made arrangements for
special day to collect old papers and
magazines. The day will ho rriuuy,
Sept. 22, and they request that papers
bo tied in bundles and put on the front
porch within easy access to wagons
that will collect same on that day
This movement is mado for two ren
sons, one to clean up the streets uni
alleys, and tho other to mnko some
money. They expect to collect n car
load of old paper.
NEW MECHANIC AT UNION
.1. L. Fernando has accepted tho po
sition as chief mechanic at tho Union
Garage. He took up tho work thoro
Wednesday of this week.
DAMAGED $21.75 WORTH
Jas. W. Strain sued W. A. Hnrrold
for dnmages accruing from Harrold
removing a well drill from the prem
ises of Strain before contract for dig
ging well wns completed.
It seemed that Frank Shipman had
charge of the drill, which belonged to
Grover nnd Miles Brown, but they
sold the machine to Harrold nnd he
took it away before job was completed.
The case was tried before a jury of
six nnu aiier going mrougn inu ruRu
lar routine of questioning and cross
questioning the jury decided in favor
of the plaintiff and allowed him dam
ages to the amount of $24.75. Mr.
Hnrrold. through his attorney, Ed. F.
Saxon, has given notice of appeal from
Judge McElroy's court.
GLQVIS AND TUCUM
CARI SCHOOLS ABE
ABOUT SAME SIZE
wife of any man and did not care to
stay witli him longer because he wa
too ea oils. Herman denial dt wa-
chosen as interpreter and although he
can talk the language as good as the
mexicans thomsoivo... the man and
woman both talking at once held him
spellbound and all he could do wu-
listen. Those in attendance together
with Judge McElroy, did not know
exactly what was going on. I'iniilly
other along the section line so that
his stock could go from one pasture
to the other. Mr. Nolte testified that
Davidson put a fence across the lane
and told him to leave it there to save
trouble. Nolte came to town nnd ask
ed advice what to do. While he was
in town his horses got on the state
land and were grazing. They were
seen by witnesses and this was tho
" . .. ..... ii
cause oi the suit. Aiier spunuing
it was decided to give the new admirer most of the day on the case the jury
the woman and fine him for larceny decided in favor ot iNoite on accouni
f wearing apparel belonging to the ! a technK. .ity.
other would-be hubby. Davidson was supposed 10 nave a
After settlement was made to the lenso on a certain section oi innii nui
satisfaction of the court the man and in looking over the papers his attoi-
woman wont to the court house and ney found that a misiaKo in me num
Two progressive towns in Eastern
New Mexico are Clovis and Tucumcari.
Both are railroad centers, Clovis on
the Santa Fe, and Tucumcari being the
ivision and terminal for the Hock
Island and El Paso & Southwestern
nilroads. Clovis claims a population
f 5000 person, while Tucumcari is
more modest and claims dui i.uuo. ine
school census is a good index to the
number of inhabitants, so the follow
ing list is given for comparison. It
proves the fact that there is not much
inference in the population:
The number of scholars enrolled in
the city schools during the first week
was as follows:
secured a license, returning to McEl
roy's office where he joined them in
the holy bonds of matrimony. They
left for Kansas under the Judge's or
ders to get out of town as soon as pos-,
sible, and it is supposed they will liu
happy ever afterwards.
BOYS DESTROY MELONS
It Is seldom that you ttnil I. E. Mc
Laren of Quay out of sorts. He was
in town Tuesday and reported a deal
that would make any person out of
sorts. Some boys who reside in his
neighborhood, entered his watermelon
pntch Sunday night and destroyed
fifteen or twenty nice melons. They
did not know or did not care whether
the melons were ripe or not. so they
just cut or smashed them open.
Mr. McLaren is known to be liberal
and hns never refused to givo away
melons to visitors. He does not pick
out the small ones or those ho cannot
sell, hut gives you choice melons, of
which ho has plenty, but it makes htm
somewhat "spunky" to have some fel
lows got in his patch and deliberately
destroy melons. The grand jury could
put tho pad-lock behind such thieves
and if iho second ofTcnco is committed
ho mny ho obliged to ask assistance.
bur was made. The suit was brought
on the fourth and the mistake wns
rectified on the sixth. Tho jury held
thnt Mr. Davidson did not have nny
lease upon the school section the day
suit was brought und thcrerorc nnu
no right to the use of tho land.
Attorneys differ on this question,
nit most of them say that Nolto per
haps would have been up against it
if Davidson's lease hnd been correct.
Attorney Saxon holds that Davidson
had no right to bring suit unless ho
had his land properly fenced, the same
ns if the property was owned by pri
vate individuals, the law Doing no
special respector of persons or cor
porations. WILL MAKE CEMENT POSTS
Tom Ritz. manager of tho Keystone
Ranch enst of town, was in our city
this week visiting his father. Ho says
ho is making preparation to mnko
enough cement posts to fenco his cat
tie ranch. Ho thinks he can make tho
posts so that same may bo retailed nt
2oc each.
HUNT WINS IN ARIZONA
Incomploto returns Wednesday trom
the Arizona primary indicnto the ro
If you want to steal watermelons, nomination of Gov. Hunt by n major
. .. .. 1 1 i , . . nnnn n
go to tho. man who would not givo you
ovon n pleasant look. Don't steal from
your best f Honda.
ity approximately 3000 over George
A. Olnoy. Tho Democrats had a bit
tor fight over theso two rivals.
ucumcari
111
111!
87
13
92
31
01
40
112
First Grade
Second Grade
Third Grade
Fourth Grade
Fifth Grade
Sixth Grade
Seventh Grade
Eighth Grade
High School
Clovis
102
111
(10
70
79
98
70
50
130
744 782
Tucumcari this year hns a gradu
ating clnss of 15 members; ninth has
54: tenth 51: and eleventh 19. This
number has been Increased consider
able this week and it would not sur
nrise those in touch with the school
to have nearly 201) in high school this
year.
ing, but Saturday morning the enstern
market had ndvanced und he advanc
ed with the market, paying $1.45 for
wheat Suturduy, Monday and Tuesday
and Wodncsdny morning, but on ac
count of the gradual decrcuso in tho
eastern market the price fell to $1.42.
Mr. Higdny is puying the limit and
the wheut growers ure satisfied with
the excellent treatment they receive
nt his hands. Thursday Mr. Higdny
was again paying $1.45. He believes
in paying top prices.
On Friday, Saturday, Monday und
Tuesday the local buyer received 41
wagon loads, the Inrgcst containing
102 bushels and belonged to Jim Jor
dan who received n check for $147.91.
The forty-one loads contained 2470,
or thereabouts. The amount paid to
the nirmers was ?..ho.-id. ineso iig-
ures are proving thnt Quay county is
muking great progress und those who
said it couldn't be done, are now doing
it. The wheat is testing high, most
of the loads showing no trace of smut.
Most of the whent was treated last
year and this year the farmers are
taking the same precaution. The wa
gons are coming from nil directions,
but those from tho east and west
side of the wheat belt say, that if Tu
cumcari will sec that tho road to
Raglund is put in good shape they will
not oliject to 'driving to tho Rnglnnd
hill and coming in on that road. Thcro
seems to be but one or two places now
that really needs fixing. One is the
sandy stretch of road east of Quay
which was supposed to have been fix
ed. The road wns clayed but those
who have been hauling over it sny the
clay was not spread out where tho
wheels of the wagon run; It was
dumped in the center of the track and
while the horses are able to get a solid
footing, the wheels cut in worse than
ever with the big londs. This could
easily lie fixed and Mr. Corn informs
the News that Harry Whiteside will
look after thnt matter at once. Tho
other place is the bridge a short dis
tance west of "Socialist" corner This
bridge is dangerous and may rost some
farmer a load of whent and team of
horses or mules, nnd the county a big
dnmnke suit. It would be so much
cheaper to repair it now.
A number of farmers are circulating
a petition to move the bridge ncross
the Plaza Largo creek on the Quny
road, to the regular crossing one mile
up the creek. I his hridge is ot no
me where it is nnd It Is thought by
the residents out thnt way that tho
ridge will be worth more to the coun
ty if it be worn out instead of allowed
to rot down. A new road could be
aid out from the bridge to connect
with the Tucumcari road further north
and this would lie much cheaper and
better ns well as permanent.
Thoso bringing wheat to town this
week were: Roy Green, Hanry Hen-
irix, John Davidson, J. A. Woodard.
I. W. Kclsay. J. H. Gray, F. A. Bellnh,
M. Weeks 2, Jas. O. Jordan 2; J. G.
Wattenlmrger 2; II. C. Greer 3; Er
nest Hnll 2; S. A. Wells 2; P. A. Stef-
fian; W. A. Runynn 2; C. K. Hill; II.
Warren; J. W. Akin, J. D. Akin, A.
L. Morrow, J. H. Johnson, W. C. Mont
gomcry 2; W. G. Winningham. H. L.
Williams, J. W. Murdick. J. .1. Mur-
dick, John Hardin, E. U. Cox 3; It. F.
Sparks and Wm. Rush. Theso farm
ers came from all parts of tho plains
and wore well pleased with everything
except those two bnd places in tho
Ragland road.
NEW LODGE IN TUCUMCAUI
Rev. G. F. C. Fons, who has been
in Tucumcari for sovernl weckR or
ganizing The Homesteaders Lodge, is
meeting with unlimited success Tho
order was organized last week with
a membership of about thirty charter
members. The meeting nights have
been set for the 1st nnd 3rd Snturdny
of each month, und arrangement hnvo
been made to use the Masonic Hall.
This now order givoR its members
life insurance and accident benefits
at a moderate rule. It is backed by
years of experience nnd plenty of sur
plus capital; therefore we bespeak for
it success.
MILLER CROW
Mondny, J. T. Crow, n prosperous
stock-farmer of the West community,
came to town dressed in his best
clothes, Some of his friends suspect
ed something but not until late that
evening wns it known that he and Mrs.
Mnry C. Miller of Montoya, wore mar
ried. Tho ceremony was performed
by Rev. A. L. Muddox of tho Baptist
church nnd tho new married couple
left for thoir future homo at West.
lioth or the contracting parties aro
highly respected residents of Quay
county nnd nothing but happiness and
success will he tho result of this union
and tho News Joins the many frieniU
in extending congratulations.
Read it first in the Newa, a year.
Thomas Wheat Drills, 10 and 12
dlscB. None better. W. E, Mundell,
