TUB OOURIKH
la davuUd to th. bmt Intonat
of FRAY and WBCELlCIl
COUNTY. Thalltoalpatnm.
M.of thaaltluna of Oil. mm
Mob la napaotf ullr aollclud,
PubfUW mrr Tmndr by
RUSSELL D. PRICE.
SubMriptbaj Bates
PwTwr U)0
HI Month. ,..,,.,..,., JO
ThrMaUmths M
VOL. XIV.
SPHAlf, WIIEELEB COUNTY, OBEGON,' TIIUBSDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 1016.
NO. 31.
641 CONGRESS ADJOURNS
'Record Shows Appropriations Exceeding
by More than Half Billion Past
Year's Expenditures.
Washington, D. C. .The first see
lon of tbt Sixty-fourth congress,
which adjourned Friday, Sept 8, was
concerned chiefly with national do
' fense.
When the gavel fell congresa had
directed reorganization and re-equipment
of the army and navy for defense
of the country at the unprecedented
coat of 1055,000,000, with authoriza
tions that will Increase the total in
three yeart to nearly $800,000,000,
With all other expenditure!, appropri
ations were brought to the grand total
of 11,037,583,682, the greatest aggre
gate In the country's history, and ex
ceeding that for the last fiscal year by
more tban hair a billion dollars.
expenditures, necessitated by pre
paredness and the calling into action
of military forces to meet the Mexican
emergency, demanded revenue legisla
tion in the closing days of the session.
Congress responded by doubling the
normal tax on incomes, creating an in-
, herltance tax, munitions tax and mis
cellaneous excise taxes to raise $305,
000,000, and by directing the aale of
$130,000,000 Panama Canal bonds,
Congress established a tariff com
mission, a government shipping board
to rehabilitate the American merchant
marine; a workmen'a compensation
commission to administer a new uni
form compensation law; a farm loan
banking system; a child labor law;
enlarged the system of self-govern
ment in the Philippines and enacted
many other Important laws which had
been contemplated by the administra
tion,
Host Important legislative enact
ments of the session, exclusive of laws
for national defense, Included the fol
lowing:
Government ship law - Appropriat
ing $50,000,000 to operate ships in
foreign and coastwise trade when un
able to lease them to individuals or
private corporations.
Child labor law Denying Interstate
commerce to products of mines and
quarries employing children under 16
years of age and factories, mills, can
neries and other establishments em
ploying children under 14 years.
Kural credits law establishing a
farm loan board In control of a system
of farm loan mortgage banks.
Workmen'a compensation law Pro
viding uniform sick and accident bene
fits for employes of the Federal gov
ernment and benefits to dependents
In case of death.
Emergency revenue law Providing
for doubling the normal income tax on
the lowest class; making an addition
al surtax ranging from 1 per cent on
that portion of incomes exceeding
$20,000 to 13 per cent on amount of
incomes in excess of $2,000,000; levy
ing a graduated tax of 1 to 10 per cent
on inheritances ranging from $50,000
to $6,000,000; a 10 per cent net profit
tax on manufacturers of munitions, 6
per cent net profit tax on manufac
turers of materials entering into muni
tlons; a license tax on actually invest
ed capital stock of corporations capi
talised at more than $99,000; wine,
beer and liquor excise taxes and mis
cellaneous stamp taxes.
uood roads law Providing for co
operative Federal aid to the states for
construction of highways , and appro
priating $75,000,000 to be spent in five
years.
Postal savings law Amendment in
creasing the amount which individuals
may deposit from $500 to $1000 with
interest, and a additional $1000 with
out interest.
Federal reserve Amendments, in
cluding amendment to the Clayton
anti-trust law permitting officers and
directors of member banks to become
officers and directors of not more than
two other non-competing banks;
amendments permitting national banks
to establish foreign branches, liberal
izing regulations for discounting com
mercial paper and permitting member
banks in towns of 6000 or less popula
tion to act as agents for insurance
companies.
Railroad legislation Creation . of a
joint sub-committee of senate and
house interstate commerce committees
to investigate necessity for further
legislation for railroads and the Inter
state Commerce commission, question
of government ownership of public
utilities and comparative worth of
government ownership as against gov
ernment regulation.
Railroad eight-hour day law Estab
lishing eight hours as the standard for
reckoning the compensation of railroad
employes operating trains in interstate
commerce after January 1, 1917, and
providing for a commission of three to
investigate the effects of the eight
hour standard, present wages not to ' ,
reduced during the Investigation, nor
for 80 days thereafter, and work in
excess of eight hours to be paid for at
a pro rata rate.
Tariff Creation of a non-partisan
tariff commission of five members to
investigate and advise congress on
tariff revision; repeal of the free sug
ar provision of exiting tariff law;
amendments increasing duties on dye-
stuffs to encourage manufacturing dye-
stuirs in the United States; enactment
of an anti-dumping provision to pre
vent dumping of foreign-made goods
at less than foreign market prices;
authorization for the President to re
taliate against foreign nationa prohib
iting Importation of goods from the
United States by laying an embargo
against imports from offending na
tions. Cotton futures act Providing a pro
hibitive tax on cotton sold for future
delivery in fictitious or wash sales.
rnuippines Law to provide for a
more autonomous government ef the
islands, enlarging self-government.
reorganizing election laws, establish
ing an elective senate and promising
independence whenever, in the Judg
ment of the United States, the Philip
pine people demonstrate capability for
it
Appropriations for all purposes
were:
Aarieultui I Z4.Mft.M2
Army 287.6U6.630
iMplomatlc and eonaular i.M&UM
Itlmrict of Columbia 12 Ml.ooT
FurUllction. ,, ,., 26,7ft.060
IndLn affair 10.W7.M4
loiialativ. and .mkuUv n.Wtt.OlM
Military Aoulwnjr 1.2 OU
Navy .... Sia.3dO.UMl
Pmuton lftf AMI run
Ho. tonic SM.W7.679
Klwr and harbor 40.6WI.ias
Hundry civil rn.rtW.28A
Parmanmt appropriation. 131.074.S7
Bhicplng bill , , I0.IOO.OUO
!llciieii..,,, " 72.W0.0U0
Kural cnMIU..., S.IOU.OUO
Rood road... S.OUO.OOO
Flood. Z.O00,OUO
JAPAN WOULD PUT ADVISERS
IN CHINESE MILITARY ACADEMES
Pekln In addition to demanding
police power In South Manchuria and
inner Mongolia as one of the terms of
the settlement of the incident at Cheng
lhlatun, . in Eastern Mongolia, japan,
It was learned in government circles
here, has also secretly suggested to
China that the employment of Japan
ese mlltary advisers at the large Chi
nese centers and of Japanese instruc
tors in the Chinese military schools
would be highly desirable. - '
The Chinese press says the granting
or the Japanese demands would mean
the abandonment of Chinese sover
eignty in Inner Mongolia and in South
Manchuria. '
China's dependency upon Japan for
money, it Is maintained In semi-official
quarters, renders her unable to ignore
either the Japanese demands or sug
gestions unless financial assistance is
found elsewhere.
wsng nung-Nien, tne Chinese com
missioner who Investigated the inci-
Publisher for Defense.
NEWS ITEMS
,' Of General Interest
About Oregon
Oregon Victims Alleged to Have
NORTHWEST MARKET REPORTS;
GENERAL CROP CONDITIONS I
Portland Wheat- Bluestem. $1.80;
forty-fold, $1.28; club, $1.27; red fife,
$1.28; red Russian, $1.26.
Flour Patents, $6.20; etrsighta,
$6.60 6; exports, $6.60; valley.
Lost $30,000 to Promoter !"' whole whe,t- IM0; rahm'
STREETCAR Uflj GET
OTHER UNIONS' AID
Eugene Offtors of the United
States government are investigating
the record of F, G. Mathison, San
Francisco real estate dealer, arrested
In Oakland, Cat., Monday, according to
a statement made here by District At
torney J. M. Devers. Attorney Devers
Millfeed Spot prices: Bran, $23.60
per ton; shorts, $26.60; rolled barley.
$3536.
Corn Whole, $42 per ton; cracked.
$43.
Hay Producers' prices: Timothy,
Eastern Oregon $16.6018 per ton;
timothy, valley, $16 16; alfalfa.
Labor Trouble hi New York Extends to
75,000 Worfars.
SYMPATHETIC STRIKE 03DEED
aiao .tated that th. authorities bsdto. "ILSSS ,V5i5?!?;.? Stow . Hand, Longshoremen, Bar-
tenders, Machinists, Moulders,
Printers and Brewers Aid.
Grand total '. 1 1.S37.6K3.682
In addition to the total there were
authorisations for expeditures in fu
ture years, including naval, good
roads, tariff commission and other ex
penditures to bring the total to approx
imately $2,000,000,000. but these
amounts do not properly apply to the
appropriations for the fiscal year.
In addition congress enacted an un
usually large amount of miscellaneous
legislation, including reorganisation of
the patent office; provision for trial of
space system in place of weight sys
tem for payment for railroad mail
service and leaving to the Interstate
Commerce commission determination
of the method and rate of pay; crea
tion of a National Park bureau in the
department of the Interior; establish
ing warehouse regulations for cotton
and grain and providing a new grain
grading law; extension for a year of
the government War Risk Insurance
bureau; uniform law making bills of
lading negotiable.
Proposed legislation which failed of
enactment and has gone over until
next winter includes the immigration
bill; the corrupt practices act to limit
campaign expenditures for election of
the President, Vice President and
members of congress; a vocational ed
ucation bill passed by the senate; con
servation legislation, including the
public lands water power bill, the
Shields navigable streams water power
bill, which failed in conference; the
oil leasing bill, including relief for
California oil men; a flood control bill
which passed the house and a bill to
establish citizenship for natives of
Porto Eico.
Four treaties were ratified by the
senate. The most important were the
long-pending Nicaraguan convention
providing for the acquisition of a canal
route and naval stations rights in the
Bay of Fonseca for $3,000,000 and
that ratified in the closing hours pro
viding for the purchase of the Danish
West Indies for $26,000,000. Another
was the treaty with the Kepublic of
Hayti providing for an American finan
cial protectorate. The much-disputed
pending treaty with Colombia, after
several years of consideration, Was
favorably reported from the foreign
relations committee with an amend
ment reducing from $26,000,000 to
$16,000,000 the proposed amount to be
paid for the partition of Panama.
Joseph H. Colt, president of the
publishing house of Moffat, Yard &.
Co., has been elected chairman of the
board of trustees of the American De
fense Society.
dent at Cheng Chiatun, in which six
Japanese and four Chinese soldiers were
killed in a clash between troops of the
two garrisons, reports that the trouble
began with a street fight between a
Japanese civilian and a Chinese sol
dier. Japanese soldiers attempted to
force their way into the Chinese bar
racks to arrest the soldier. A Jap
anese soldier, the commissioner says,
slashed the Chinese sentry with
sword, where upon firing began.
Revenue Bill ia Effect Now;
Stamp Tax IsJAboushed
Washington, V. (J. When the new
general revenue bill became effective
Saturday business men throughout the
country were relieved of the stamp
taxes which they have been paying
since December 1, 1914, and which
were to have continued until December
31 of this year.
The stamp taxes repealed include
those paid on telegraph and telephone
messages, parlor-car seats and berth
tickets, bonds, debentures, certificates
of indebtedness, certificates of stock,
transfer bills of sale, promissory notes,
express and freight manifests and bills
of lading, bonding instruments, con
veyances, insurance policies, entry of
goods, passage tickets, protests, per
fumery, cosmetics and chewing gum.
that Mathison, who is charged with
having obtained title to real estate in
Lane and Linn counties worth from
$30,000 to $40,000 in exchange for
bogus abstracts of title to Texaa land.
did not operate alone and that other
arrests revealing a conspiracy to de
fraud on an extensive scale are prob
able. .,'... ,
District Attorney Devers prepared
reqiustion papers for Mathison. to be
signed by the governor. In the event
a Federal charge ia perf erred the state
will likely turn the prisoner over to
the Federal authorities for trial he
saia.
in one or tne letters in tne posses
sion of the officers Mathison ia said to
have written that he had "unloaded
the Oregon stuff" and had done very
well. The "Oregon stuff" referred to
s alleged to have been land to wihch
be had obtained title in exchange for
alleged worthless abstracts of title to
Texaa land.
Attorney Devers stated that in the
cases he had investigated, the ab
stracts of title which on their face
were genuine and set up a clear chain
bf title purported to have been made
by an abstract company which did not
exist. The records in the county in
which the lexas land ia located con
tain no record of such abstracts.
The land Mathison purported to con
vey to the Lane county farmers alleged
y have been swindled of their farms,
telongs to Mrs. H. M. King, reputed
M be .a multi-millionaire, of Corpus
inrisu, lex. it is part or her ranch,
which consists of a Mexican grant that
has never been subdivided. Her agent.
Attorney Robert Kleberg, in a letter
to District Attorney J. M. Devers
stated that Mathison was unknown to
him.
From Andrew Bossen, who swore to
the complaint against Mathison, title
to Lane county land worth $10,000 and
$600 in personal property was obtained
in exchange for an abstract of title
calling for 320 acres of the Texas land.
Bossen announced some time ago that
be had sold his farm and that he was
going to Texas to develop his newly
acquired land. .
From Pierce & DeheL of Pleasant
Hill, titile to a 820-acre tract of Lane
county land was obtained by Mathison.
Marvin Martin, of Brownsville, Linn
county, gave a deed for 378 acres of
Oregon land and a note for $2800 for
an abstract of title to 480 acres of
Texas land.
S. J. Johns, of Myrtle Creek, Doug
las county, was about to complete an
exchange of his property for Texas
land offered by Mathison. He took
Mathison's abstract of title to an at
torney. There was some question as
to Texas law and letters of inquiry
written to attorneys in Texas revealed
that the abstracts of title were not
genuine, it is stated.
Greece Awaiting Allies's Decision.
and vetch. $12 012.60; cheat. $11:
clover, $10,
Butter Exchange prices: Cubes,
extras, no bid, 80e asked. Jobbing
prices: Prints, extras, 8234c; but-
terfat. No. 1, 81e; No. 2, 29c, Port
land.
Eggs Oregon ranch, exchange
prices, current receipts. 27c dozen.
Jobbing prices: Oregon ranch, candled,
2830e; selects, 32c
Poultry Hens, 13i(ai4ie per pound:
broilers, 1617c; turkeys, live, 18
ZZe; docks, llMJc; geese, 9llc
Veal Fancy, 12J13c per pound.
Pork Fancy, 12a13c per pound.
Vegetables Artichokes. 75cfi$l per
dozen; tomatoes, 3060c per crate;
cabbage, $1.76 per hundred; peppers,
45c per pound; eggplant, 67c; let
tuce, 2026e per dozen; cucumbers,
2550e per box; beans, 3c per pound;
celery, 7585c per dozen; corn, 10
Z5c
Potatoes New, 90c3$1.15 per hun
dred; sweets, 3i4c
Onions California. $1.60 per sack:
Walla Walla, $1.60 per sack.
Green Fruits Apples, new, 75c
$1.86 per box; cantaloupes, 60e$1.60
per crate; peaches, 4075c per box;
watermelons, lie per pound; plums,
75c$l per box; pears, $L251.60;
grapes, $1.101.75; casabas, lie per
pound.
Sack Vegetables Turing, $1.26;
carrots, $1.25 1.85; beets, $1.25
Hops 1916 crop, nominal; 1916
contracts, 9c, nominal.
' Wool Eastern Oregon, fine, 2326c
per pound; coarse, 3032c: valley, 30
3Zc
iasara Bark uid and new, 4?c per
pound.
Cattle Steers, prime, $6.50(26.76;
good, $66.60; common to fair, $5
6.60; cows, choice, $55.60; medium
to good, $4.50g)5; ordinary to fair,
$44.60; heifers, $45.75; bulls, $3
4.25; calves, $36.
Hogs Prime, $9.559.65; good to
prime mixed, $9.50 9.60; rough
heavy, $8.759.25; pigs and skips,
$8.258.75.
bheep Lambs, J5.6U 8.25; year
ling wethers, $5.766.50; old wethers,
$5.606; ewes, $3.605.50.
London Great importance is at
tached in dispatches of Saturday to
Reuter and the Exchange Telegraph to
the conference at Athens between the
entente ministers and!Premier Zaimis
The Greek premier seemingly made
no definite statement regarding the
Greek government's intentions, but
sounded the diplomatic representatives
regrading the feeling of their govern
ments in the event of Greece's depar
ture from neutrality. The ministers
replied that they welcomed proposals
from the Greek government, which
they would submit to their own gov
ernments. . - v
Baker Mill is Burned.
Baker Fire destroyed the sawmill
of the Oregon Lumber company at
South Baker Monday afternoon, caus
ing a loss of $40,000, with no insurance.
The blaze is believed to have started
by Powder-like sawduBt in the engine-
room, igniting from the fire under the
boilers. In an instant the entire mill
was ablaze and burned rapidly. For a
many other buildings were threatened,
but the Baker fire department and 150
men worked heroically and kept the
flames from spreading. Several cars
of lumber were pulled to safety just
in time.
French Plants Visited.
Paris Members of the American
Economic Mission, now viBiting
France, were received Saturday by
David Mennet, of the National Associ
ation of Economic Expansion, and also
conferred with representatives of vari
ous industrial groups concerning ways
of developing the commercial relations
of the two countries. During the stay
in Paris the members will visit the
principal industries and the biggest e
tablishments working for the army.
Villa Chase to Start.'
Chihuahua City Mexican govern
ment troops are preparing to take the
field in a vigorous offensive against
Villa and his bandits, reported to be in
the Santa Clara canyon. This an
nouncement was made by General Ja
cinto Trevino, following a conference
with Generals Matios Ramos, Domingo
Arrieta and Elsondio. General Tre
vino withheld details of the plans
formulated, but said 15 pieces of artil
lery have been sent for the campaign.
Man IOO Years Old Dies.
' Salem George W. Bennett, aged
100 years and 6 months, died Monday
at the State Insane hospital. He had
been a patient .of the hospital since
1910 and previous to that time was an
inmate of the Soldier's Home at Rose
burg. Mr. Bennett was born in New
York and served through the Civil war.
He had no known relativiea and the
body is being held pending instructions
from Bennett's guardian. Captain J.
A. Duchanan, of Roseburg.
Heavy Rain Causes Loss to Growers.
Sheridan The Bhowers of Saturday
settled down into a Bteady drizzle.
threatening wholesale damage to grain
and hops. Hoppicking commenced
with the growers anxious to get the
crops in. They estimate a 20 per cent
loss already 100 bales of the 600 that j
was estimated as the season output
from this section.
No Slump in Produce Market
Tacoma There was no slump in the
produce market as a result of jobbers
loading up with the expectation of a
railroad strike and high prices when it
opened Tuesday after being closed two
days. None of the Tacoma jobbers
overloaded, although all had good stocks
on hand when they opened. The ar
rivals were heavy, especially in canta
loupes and peaches, including several
cars of Elbertas. Ebertas are now 75
cents a box and dealers are advising
housewives to make their preserving
peace purchases now, as the price will
likely not drop any lower. The short
age of the crop and heavy Eastern de
mand is responsible for the high price
this year. -
Although beef prices dropped. half a
cent a pound on the opening of the
market, pork and mutton advanced
from half a cent to 2 cents a pound.
Dressed hogs advanced from 12 to 14
cents a pound, and . Diamond T. C.
lambs from 14 to 16 cents a pound.
Hog products in the East have ad
vanced heavily during the past month
and the result is being felt here.
Heavy export trade is thought to be
responsible, as there is no shortage in
the hog crop in the Middle West. Mut
ton, because of high prices last spring,
caused heavy selling of the parent
stock, with the result that there were
fewer 1916 lambs than there other
wise would have been.
Egg and butter prices opened un
changed. Cheese shows a strong ten
dency to advance and the price may be
a cent higher all around by the end of
the week.
Cheap Peaches Are Not Expected.
Portland The peach market holds
firm, and, in the opinion of Front-
street dealers, will continue so
throughout the season, as there is not
likely to be any over-supply. The best
yellow peaches are held at 65 and 75
cents a box. The market is about 20
cents over the level customary at this
time of the year. Cantaloupes were in
large supply and weak. Prices had a
wide range of $1 to $1.60 a crate, ac
cording to quality. Buyers gave the
preference to California cantaloupes at
the higher prices over Toppenish stock.
New York A strike of stage em
ployes, longshoremen, brewery work
ers, machinists, bartenders, moulders
and printers in sympathy with the un
ionized carmen who quit their places
four days ago, was decided upon at a
meeting of the heads of their unions
Sunday night, according to an an
nouncement by Hugh Frayne, state or
ganizer of the American Federation of
Labor.
A resolution was adopted calling on
all unionized wage earners in Greater
New York, Yonkers, Mount Vernon,
White Plains and New Rochelle to
sanction a strike "in support of the
contention of the street railway men
of their right to organize."
The resolution recomjueuded that the
workers in the various trades "lay
down their tools until the employers
are forced to recognize the carmen's
union." "According to State Organ
izer Frayne, approximately 76,000
men and women are enrolled in the
unions that were represented at the '
meeting Sunday night.
Before a sympathetic strike can be
declared, however, it was explained by
the union leaders, it will be necessary
for them to call mass meetings of
their respective unions and put the
proposition to a vote of the members.
The delegates at the -meeting, it was
said, assured William B. Fitzgerald,
organizer of the carmen's union, that
their members were "willing to fight
to a finish, morally, physically and
financially in the interest of trade unionism."
Officials of the railway companies,
when informed of the action of the
union leaders, asked whether the build
ing trades were to be included in the
recommendation for a sympathetic
strike. They were told that no action
with respect to these unions had been
taken.";
The meeting of the union delegates
followed a meeting held earlier in the
evening at which Samuel Gompers,
President of the American Federation
of Labor, and officials of the Central
Federated Unions in New York and
Brooklyn, as well as the heads of car
men's union, were present, f
Undivided moral and financial sup
port of all trade unionist in Greater
New York was pledged in a resolution
adpoted at this conference ' by - the
striking carmen.
Undersea Lner Commerce
Abandoned by Germany
New York Despite the success of
the Deutschland venture, Germany is
prepared to abandon, for the time be
ing at least, her merchant submarine
program because of failure of the Bre
men to reach an American port, ac
cording to reports that hs been re
ceived from abroad. .
From an official source it has been
learned that the Bremen eluded the
British Channel patrol and should have
arrived in America 10 days ago. The
absence of the vessel has convinced
maritime experts that the submarine
has been lost at sea. ' It is probable
thathei: fate never will be known.
The September seas are admittedly
hazardous and this fact may explain
the fate of the Bremen. There ia
practically no chance for submarines
to make the undersea passage in the
winter.
One report which has gained favor
here is that Germany intended to aend
several submarines across the sea and
the first one reaching here waa to be
termed the Bremen. The losses of
others, this rumor said, were to be
concealed. This is hardly possible,
however, as the British admiralty is
known to have been disappointed at
the failure to capture the Bremen. -
Perils to Trade Cited.
New York Danger to the foreign
trade of the United States from eco
nomic alliances being formed by Eu
ropean belligerents was pointed out by
the National Foreign Trade council, of
which James A. FarrelL president of
the United States Steel corporation, la
chanman, in a report made public
here Monday. The council has been in
vestigating recent European trade
measures and considering the possible
effects of retaliatory legislation.
