t
71 If ^^7^ ^^7^ ? /-V WEATHER.
look ior the s^g + s&tw4v istms i^.'sftu'k:
p l a x ogravure ft | ^ , || 1/ Sttl ftft ftl jf?l ? T55B I Ai ? ^^tJ^JTZTL. hour.
skct.ox I j?/IjV ^U1 UivVM ^Divli? .r^g^grr:,. j;
No. r?T:?.-Xo. 20.262. WASHINGTON, D. C., SUNDAY MORNING, MARCH 19, 1916* ? FIVE CENTS.
VILLA AND ]
LOCATED
SOUTH 01
Mexican Outlaw
Making Toward (
r n 1
ican rorce rusr
IS SAID TO HAVE 10,1
OF AMMUNITION
Carranzistas Under Gen. Gut
Head Him Off, While <
Closely and Cava
DOUGLAS. N. M? March 18.ber
of his bandits have been locate
and are making their way to Namii
the town of Madera, according to i
G. Lelevier. consul of the de facto
The message was from Gen. I
of the Carranza columns operating
HAS 10,000,000 RO
ien. Gutierrez said that \ ilia
miles south of Las Cruces. where
of ammunition he left there sever
Villa has not less than 10,000,000
Chihuahua.
Lieut. Col. Dato Campbell, in
guarding the mountain passes al
line, arrived in Agua Prieta last 11
with Gen. P. Elias Qdies, military
Col. Campbell said he believec
enter Sonora, and that, in his opinic
have much difficulty in capturing tl
Campbell reported that Villa
Monday, going from there to lanos
supplies.
U. S. Cavalry Rearing Villa.
Col. Dodd's flying column is galloping
tonight, its course lighted by the
brilliant Mexican moonlight "some- !
where south of Colonia Dublan,'* with
the fleeing Villa 100 miles in the lead.
Its immediate objective, according to
advices received by Gen. Gavira, Carranza
commandant of Chihuahua, at
Juarez, is Pearson.
From Pearson, army men here believe,
Col. Dodd's troopers, with their
batteries of machine guns and small
mountain howitzers, horse packed, will
wheel sharply to the eastward. Southwest
of Galena, after a junction has
been formed with the main column
now proceeding southward, Col. Dodd's
force again will turn southward. On
Tiie open, inmost waicriew pio.ni i??ii
atretches between the Sierra Madre
oriental and the Sierre Ahumare mountain
chains the flying column will
sweep, plainsmen strategists believe, to
San Geronimo. northwest of Namiquipa.
where Villa was reported to be today.
Once Villas southward flight is outdistanced.
the cavalry will turn him
northward onto the advancing forces
of Gen. Pershing, pressing from the
y.ortn through the deep defiles of the
Sierra Ahumares.
Has Outwitted His Pursuers.
Pan? ho Villa's cunning has enabled
h in to outwit American troops purs'
air. g him. Instead of being at Galena,
where Col. J>odd"s flying squadron of
cavalry was expected to overtake the
bandit chief. Villa is reported tonight
in advices reaching Juarez to have
moved from that point, through K1
Valle canyon, to Babicora, and thence
across the continental divide through
Babicora pass into the Madera section.
Villa's objective is the town of Madera,
where the million-dollar lumber plant
of the Madera company is located. The
destruction of that plant, was threat- i
ened by Villa when he was on his way
to attack Columbus, V M.
Today American cavalry, under Ool.
I?odd. was at Colona f'ubJan, one of the
American colonies in the fasas Grandes
country, which had been menaced by
Villistas. Gen Pershing's main column
of American troops was expected to
join Col. Dodd's cavalry near?Dublan.
From the t'asas Grandes country a new
plan of campaign was expected to be
pursued by the American forces.
Pursuit of Villa has now entered the
hide-and-seek stage, it is believed by
border strategists.
Plans May Be Changed.
SAN ANTONIO, Tex., March 18.?
Failure by Francisco Villa, on whose
trail more than 4,000 troops are marching,
to make a stand and fight befoeff*
the end of next week will radically
alter the methods so far employed by
fll'M 1111, TI I ?
' the expedition. This was learned at
Fort Ham Houston here today, but what
Gen. Pershings' plan is has not been
revealed, and will not be if Gen. Fred- i
erick Funston. department commander,
can prevent it.
When Gen. Pershing led the expeditionary
force over the boundary line
Into Mexico the Juncture of troops
-which has taken place near t'asas
Grandes was planned with little expectation
that Villa would be sighted
before this time. It was realized that
the only chance for the Americans to
catch him at that stage of the operations
was that he would gather his
forces and resist their advance. Not
only did lie not do that, but according
to Gen. Kunston's reports, not a shot
was tired at the invaders.
If Gen. Pershing's scouts have
1. -ought him information as to Villa's
exaC? location, it is said that the fact
is not known at general headquarters
here. There is reason to believe, however,
that Villa has retreated as the
Americans advanced, and that now he
Is somewhere in the Galeana district,
south of Casas Grandes, in the environs
where a cavalry force under Col. Dodd
rested today. One report received by
Gen. Funston from Chihuahua indicated
that tie was at Colonia Gracias with
about 400 men, but most of those reporting
contented themselves by placing
him "in the mountains from fifty
to 100 miles south of Casas Grandes.*'
Tension Lowered at Headquarters.
Unofficial reports that Gen. Pershing
did not insist upon sending his advance
^cavalry force into Cisas Gradde* after
HIS BAND
100 MILES
7 PURSUERS
at San Geronimc
Chihuahua, Amerling
After Him.
000,000 ROUNDS
CACHED IN VICINITY
ierrez Moving Northwest t<
jen. Pershing Follows
lry Flanks Him.
-Francisco Villa and a large num
d near San Geronimo, Chihuahua
quipa, in western Chihuahua, neai
i telegram received today by Ive:
Mexican government.
,uis Gutierrez, commander of on<
near Chihuahua city.
UNDS STORED.
was en route to Xamiquipa, ter
he proposes to recover a quantity
al months ago. it was said thai
rounds of ammunition cached ii
command of the Carranza troop;
ong the Sonora-Chihuahua state
iglit and held a conference todav
governor of Sonora.
I that Villa would not be able tc
>n, the United States troops woulc
te bandit chief.
was in Galena, Chihuahua, las1
, where he carried off all available
Gen. Gavira had intimated such entry
would meet with resistance, lowered
the tension at Gen. Funston's headquarters.
Gen. Funston was convinced
that Gen. Pershing: would not pass his
troops through any Mexican town, unless
he regarded it as a military necessity.
Unusual activity displayed by the d
facto government of Mexico in adding
to its stores of ammunition is shown iri
reports from customs officers at border
ports of entry. According to these and
to information secured by army officers,
shipments of rifle ammunition iri carload
lots by express have become common
in the past three weeks. Mucli
of the new ammunition entered at
points on the New Mexico and Arizona
border and was supposed to be intended
for the troops in Sonora. Since the
Columbus raid 3.000.000 rounds passed
through the customhouse at. Daredo and
it is estimated that there now is more
small arm material in Mexico than
there has been for many years.
Members of the local automobile clut
called a meeting for next week to ascertain
how many members will promise
to turn over their automobiles and
provide drivers in erase they are desired
by the War Department.
Brush With Villa Expected
By War Department Heads
Within the Next Few Days
Jleassuring advices came to both the
State and War departments yesterdaj
from Mexico, where an American armj
is following the trail of Villa and his
bandit followers. The official reports
indicated that the American troops
thus far had encountered no Villa fol
lowers, though it was indicated a brush
with them might be expected soon
and consular dispatches told of rjuiel
conditions elsewhere throughout .Mexico.
The State Department's advices
which included a dispatch saying conditions
were improving about Tarnpico
w re laid before President Wilson personally
last night by acting Secretary
Polk. Mr. Polk also conferred late in
the day with Elesio Arredondo, lien
Carranza's ambassa.dor designate, but
neither official would discuss the subject
of their talk except to say tlxai
reference had been made to a ship
ment of munitions which the de fact<
government is anxioujfcto get to Ver?
Cruz front New York.
Gen. Furiston's request that th?
American forces be permitted to us<
Mexican railways for troops transportation
was forwarded late yesterday
*o Consular Agent Rogers for presenta
tion to Gen. Carranza at Queretaro
officials here closely associated wit!
the de facto government are under
stood to believe that Carranza will b<
strongly advised by many of his fol
lowers against granting the reouest
on the ground that to do so migh
arouse public sentiment against the d<
fa?-to government, seriously affecting
the control it has established over th<
native population.
Conditions Better at Tampico.
The report of better conditions a
Tampico and in the adjacent oil fields
where JLhe situation for several day:
past has been .1 cause of some concert
among officials, brought the informatioi
that previous apprehension had beei
caused by the failure of the militar;
authorities to receive from the de fac*'<
government an understanding of wli;
American troops had (grossed the bor
der. It was said that as soon as a<*
curate information reached Tampict
improvement iti general conditions wa
A development which was regarde<
in Mexican quarters here as likely
do much toward assuring continued co
operation between the Mexican de fact<
government and American troops wai
announced by the War Department tha
the orders under which the punitive ex
pedition entered Mexico did not au
thorize occupation of any Mexicai
I cities. It was said the purpose of th<
expedition did not necessitate any sucl
occupations, which border dispatcher
have indicated might be niisunderstoo<
bv the Mexican public.
Gen. Funston's sole report to the Wa
Department was "All quiet along the bor
dcr."
A telegram from Special Representatifi
(Continued on'Second Page.)
TESTONARMYBILL
LIKELYTOMORRO'
i
| House to Vote on Kahn Amen
ment Increasing Regulars
to Total of 220,000.
1 SUBSTITUTE FOR CLAUSE
CALLING FOR 140,000 ME
President Wilson Announced as 1
Committed to the Details
of Hay Measure.
f "What may bp a true test vote on
, new army bill ? the President's p
paredness measure, as Chairman Hay
the military affairs committee calls i
may come tomorrow when the Hot
) will vote on the motion by Represen
tive Kahn of California to increase
size of the standing- army to 2-0.000
stead of to 140,000, as provided for
the bill. Representative Kahn is rat
ing republican member on the militt
affairs committee, and a typical "Ian
army" man. The amendment was
- fered by him late yesterday afterno
after the House had disposed of a lc
and comparatively uninteresting gene
* debate, and had made considerable he;
j way in the long bill under the five-m
ute rule.
> Will Provoke Comment.
The Kahn amendment, which will
talked of considerably by interested a
grcssmen over Sunday, carries with
the suggestion made months ago tl
* no matter what the democratic major
* set as a figure for the r,ize of the ari
there would be influential republics
who would criticise it for not bei
I large enough. It is possible, therefc
that the vote on the Kahn amendmi
will give a true line-up of the House
5 the army question.
However, there i.s almost a unanirm
declaration for preparedness, the d
. ferences being in degree not in pri
ciple. The debate yesterday was all c
way ? every one in the House wai
some kind of preparedness ? that
) every one except Representative L<
don of New York, socialist. He is m;
[ ing a fight against the new army b
but so far has made it single-handet
Interest is being taken in the Sen;
army increase bill, which will come
tomorrow, with administration lead*
, urging that it be given a clear track a
' right of way over all else. There i
essential differences in the Senate a
House bills.
Mr. Mann Expresses Doubt.
Chairman Hay said in the House y
terday that his was the "Presiden
own bill," and this was questioned la
by Republican Leader Mann:
"Doubtless the President favors t
' best he can obtain," said Mr. Mann.
: have no doubt he favors it over exi
i ing law."
Last night President Wilson let it
I known that while he approves the g
. era! features of the Hav bill, he 1
not committed himself to its detai
Administration officials are looking
i the conference committee, which
adjust the House and Senate bills af
passage, to produce a measure whi
will have the President's full approv
Speaker Clark Closes Debate.
Speaker Clark closed the general <
1 bate in the House, expressing appro'
of the Hay bill and declaring it u
. satisfactory to the average Americ
and as good as could be expecfed unt
| | the circumstances. The nation as
whole, he said, wished to hold a mid<
course.
"They want y>eace," he said, "hut j
peace at any price. They want, pes
with honor. They believe thorougl
that there are things worth fighti
for. They are not willing to bankri
the country on military and naval pr<
a rat ions. They are, however. Willi
k to spend all that is necessary for 1
. public defense."
Representative Mann characters
tbe hill as inadequate to the natio
5 needs, saying it would provide for pi
. paredncss for peace, not for war.
Wants Army That Will Count.
i "I believe," he* continued, "that it
; the duty of the United States to p
L pare now an army which will a
weight to diplomatic suggestions
make. The time lias come when it
wise for us to consider the possibili
the probability, of the future and pi
pare now for what may come to us.
we do not. we may regret it to 1
end of our lives."
Representative Kahn in closing i
debate for the minority side, said tl
after all the first line of defense v
the navy, and that it was more
sential to put the navy on a footi
where it could maintain control of i
sea against 'any enemy than it was
build up an army. While the na
controlled the sea, he added, no
vader could reach American shores.
Amendments Considered.
Consideration of amendments beg
i immediately on the close of deba
* The only change made was to ra
the rank of the chief of coast artilh
, from a brigadier general to major g<
1 eral. An amendment by Represen
I tive Gardner (republican) of Mas:
1 chusetts, to increase the committc
figures for additional men In the Co
Artillery Corps from 17,000 to 22,0
was votetl down without division, 1
after considerable argument.
1 When the House adjourned Rep
, sentativei Kahn's amendment, prop
' ing a total authorized peace strenj
of 220,000 for the regular army, v
1 pending.
! told to hurry enlistment
Y
? Recruiters for Army Are Ordered
Act Speedily.
, Adjt. Gen. McCain yesterday aft
s noon aery telegrams to ail recruit
j officers of the army, as follows:
j "I'nder authority of act of Congr
- the President has increased the streni
5 of the army by approximately 25,
I men, and \t is imperative that the
- crplting service obtain this addltio
- number of recruits as speedily as p
* sible. Recommendations for the
i tension of the recruiting service
* neighboring localities, which in y<
1 judgment will prove productive will
submitted for consideration,
r "You will Rive your individual a
- undivided attention to the work
obtaining: your, share of the number
, lecruiLaVju-quired, and will proseci
this woiX>wltt20ut regard to hours."
v-*^y j
W
,d
me WINDY WATCHFUL
IltS
>s- ~
>nr
Carranza General Leads <
ate
I Of His Men Over to Villa
tnd
Hernanza and Followers Then Turn Up
es- *
Z" Chiefs Followers in Durango and L
h. Them in Battle Lasting Several Hon
st
Special J>ispat<h to The Star.
las GALVESTON, Tex., March 18.?The Carranza Gen.
"t? in the state of Durango, has deserted and joined what i
j'er "pacifists," a party heartily in sympathy with Villa in
troubles, according to dispatches reaching Xueva I.are
Hernanza. at the head of 400 recent Carranza soldiers
defeated the constitutionalist army in a pitched battle w
iai several hours. The Carranza army lost sixty killed and fi
ali ed. Much arms and munitions were taken, according
ier The "pacifists" have openly denounced Carranza, declari
a is the primary cause of the invasion by the United State
It is reported that Zapata will join the new mov
jot march with it to assist Villa. Dispatches from .Mexit
5" Vera Cruz mention fighting in the state of Durango, but
with whom.
'i>- ?
* 'cdckin' aaaviaa ntiuiAMn dcapconnvm iuii
OrLMU, IflHAIITI ULITIMMU f LflOL UUUI IU Ifll
re- '
Member of Naval Consulting Board Former President Taft 1
is Would Have Defense Cost Double Over Sessions of An
re.<m
F?e Department Expense. League.
we *
is
ty, NEW YORK, March IS. Hudson NEW YORK, March 1S.?
re- Maxim, inventor and member of the tional convention of the 1
If naval consulting: board, speaking: on na- force peace will be held at
the tional defense at the National- Uemo- May 2? and 27, it was am
(he '-ratio Club ilere today, declared that today. Former President 1
lat -we must spend all we can and be pre- side. The call for the meet
pared, and then if we do not have any war sent out in the name of 1
we shall have only paid our insurance 200 other prominent Ameri
the and gained by service of our youth a jng the governors of sever
to better generation to corne. with patriot- According to the annou
LVy iSm lovaity and happiness." The _ in"
money that is used for tire departments, xpress purpose of call
Mr. Maxim said, should be doubled for tional assemblage at thii
defense. devise and determine upon
Put guns in the hands of the people ive effect to the proposala
and teach them to shoot. urged Mr. H
' Maxim. "The German people are patri- nations to enforce peace
Ltc* ots because they have been made to Emphasis Is given to t
ise serve in the army. It is because we that it is not the purpose <
;ry have not enforced service that we do not izution to propose measui
?n understand this. We must get to work." ping the present war in I
"n" ue asserted that we should become combat the preparedness
ta~ more proficient in the use of machine but to outline a "practical
sa- and anti-aircraft guns. toward future world peac<
:e's
ast : ?
00. ?
aut rWE SEE END OF THIS WAR,"
? SAYS FRENCH FINANCE MINI
/as
TS. PARIS. March 18.?"We have reached the \
to hour," said Alexandre Ribot, minister of finance,
ing in the chamber of deputies on the financial at
*r- tary situation. "We can say without exagg
S without illusion and without vain optimism, that
es* see the end of this horrible war."
?th
o?? Mr- Ribot's utterance is taken to be of the
nai importance, as indicating official opinion with re
the result of'the battle of Verdun.
? "" .1 / ^
W hetner peace js or is not pruouo/y nearer, ;
be questionable that the tension in France has relax
that men's thoughts are turned to the rafiid devel
utc of events favorable to the allies. ?
L? ' ; V"?
. : * > stiHt . < ' V-V - - .
' j
, WAITING.
400 VILLISTAS MASSING
TO RAID PRESIDIO
I SidC MARFA, Tex., March
18.?A messenger from
Mexico arrived at Pre
OH r It SI sidio this morning with a
IcfcClt report that Villa bandits
were mobilizing to attack
Presidio.
Most of the American
Hernanza, women left Marfa this 1
s called the afternoon. ,
the present Col. Frederick Sibley !
do tonight. Qf the 14th Cavalry today !
, yesterday j conferred with Col. Rojas, ,
hieh lasted j constitutionalist com- j
ilty wound-1 mander at Ojtnaga, oppo- '
to advices. | s,te Presidio. j
ing that he j Carranza troops were J
s- ! reported co-of>erating
ement and , with the American forces 1
:o City vial for possible defense
do not say j against bandits. |
i
EET HERE RIVALRIES CAUSE A RIOT:
%
Will Preside Republican Convention in Muskogee, J
ti-War Okla.. Is Scene of Fac- {
tional Tumult. [
-The first na- MUSKOGEE, Okla., March 18.?Faceague
to en- tional rivalries imadc the Muskogee
; Washington county republicaxi convention today a ^
nounced here scene of riotous tumult, which was not
Taft will pre- ended until J. C. Denton, one of two <
ting has been rival chairmen, was pulled from the
Mr. Taft and desk upon which he stood and arrested, g
icans, includ- charged with carrying concealed weap al
states. ons. With his arrest, the supporters of
incement the J. J. McGraw of Ponca City, candidate
ing the na- for national committeeman, withdrew,
s time is to and the adherents of James Harris of
measures to Wagoner, rival candidate for the same
for a league position, continued their deliberations,
j." Trouble began as soon as it became
he assertion apparent that the Harris and McGraw
-e^Jor stop- factions would try to hold conventions t
Surope, or to -n the samc hal1- Attempts to trans- a
i movement, act business precipitated disorder until *
Pl.an looking delegates came to personal en- 1
counters and fought, while spectators I
? hooted and jeered. 0
Denton's arrest was based on charges c
that he drew a pistol and threatened s
George Pascal, another delegate.
J
STER HIS MEM0RY HON?BED. I
Late President Cleveland's Birthday ?
lecisive Anniversary Celebrated. 1
CALDWELL, N. J., March 18.?The g
? speak- seventy-eighth anniversary of the birth r
1 *i of Grover Cleveland was celebrated to- "
day at the birthplace here of the late
eration President with exercises under the
auspices of the Grover rieveland Birthwe
now place Memorial Association.
Numerous new-found relics of Mr. X
Cleveland were on exhibition at his
birthplace, whifch was thrown open to
the public in the afternoon.
utmost
gard to Abandoned Ship's Crew Saved. *
HALIFAX. X. S.. March 18.?The Brit- tl
iah schooner Ajivent. which was blown t(
oft shore March 3 as she was about to it
IS Utl- end her voyage to this port from t)
Zed and PhiladeipniB, was laier aoanaoned and m
her crew saved by a passing: vessel, ac- m
cording: to advices-received here, today, ei
ujpment TkC report came from the captain of *a d<
steamer who said the skipper of an- ei
other ship had asked him to notify the
- - -o^nera." ci
~ ... : :
SHOT SENT BY WIFE I
KILLS A. L ENGLISH
New York Lawyer in Maryland
Home Dies in Presence of
Young Daughter. I
CORONER'S JURY DECIDES
WOMAN IS BLAMELESS j
Story of Man's Alleged Brutality and \
Threats to Kill Given by
Members of Family. ^
FREDERICK, Md? March 18.? Mrs.
Eloise Young English shot and killed
her husband, Arthur E. English, a law- j
yer of New York, at their home near
here today. The shooting was done in j
ihe presence of their six-year-old
iaughter and is said to have occurred
luring a quarrel. English was the son ^
?f Thomas Dunn English, a former
ongressman from New Jersey and the
ruthor of the song, "Ben Bolt."
Mrs. English claims that she shot in
self-defense, when her husband, in a
fit of anger, pointed a revolver at her.
\n examination of the body of English
showed that a bullet had gone through
[lie heart and that four other bullets
nad taken effect. The furniture in the
room in which the body was found
ivas in great disorder, indicating that
a. struggle had taken place.
Wife Notifies Police.
After the shooting, Mrs. English took
her four children to the home of a
neighbor, to whom she related the story
3f the tragedy. She telephoned to a
physician in Frederick to hurry to the
iide of her husband, wliom she said she
had shot. She then called police headquarters
in Frederick and asked that a
warrant be sworn out for her husband,
who, she stated, had threatened to take
ner life. She also told the police that
she had shot her husband.
Mrs. English was exonerated from
hlame for the killing of her husband
by a coroner's jury here tonight, after
she and three of her children had testified
as to English's alleged brutality
and frequent threats to kill his wife.
Boy's Illness Causes Bage.
The young woman testified that while
their two sons were cutting wood this
morning she requested her husband to
permit the elder boy to quit on account
of illness. She said this angered her
husband, who began to smash dishes
and furniture in his rage. Mrs. English
secured a revolver, hid it in her
dress, and later when her husband took
his revolver and threatened to kill her,
she testified, she emptied the five
chambers of her revolver into his body.
Mrs. English was the daughter of the
late McClintock Young, a Frederick Inventor,
many of whose devices are used
by large corporations. She was one of
the most attractive members of the
younger social set of Frederick at the (
time of her marriage to Mr. English,
sixteen years ago.
Mr TT.na?lieTi M o rri a A Tvrira
NEW YORK. March 18.?Arthur Eng- 1
lish was assistant United States attorley
in the Department of the Interior t
from 1893 to 3 897, when he resigned 1
ind resumed private practice in this
ity. He was one of the commission- s
?rs of the Hudson-Fulton celebration e
n 1909. The present Mrs. English. I c
Rhom he married in 1900. was his sec- 1
>nd wife, his first having died five 1
tears before. He had one son by his c
5rst marriage and three children, two i
ions and a daughter, by his second.
Mr. English was born in this city in
1863. and was a graduate of New York
University. He studied Hindoo, Greek.
Roman. Hebrew. English and Ameri- t
*an law under private tutors. He also y
was a student of medicine and science.
VIr. English had been admitted to the I
oar of this state, the District of Co- J
umbia and several other states.
GREECE~CUT OFF FROM \
GERMANY AND ALLIES *
ATHKNS, March 18.?All direct tele- 'c
graphic communication between Greece
md Germany. Austria-Hungary. Bui- r
;aria and Turkey lias been cut. ~
The financial situation in Greece ap>ears
to be of the gravest nature. The
'ami lies of mobilized soldiers in many
ases are in dire want, and- the men .
hemselves will be shortly required in
he fields if the crops are not to be ii
leglected. 4 t
VIRGINIA IS FOR WILSON. I
Ho Other Name Mentioned in Con- b
nection With: Nomination. p
I per ill Dispatch to The Star. 0
RICHMOND. V? March IS?Th. b
itate democratic committee is to meet c
lere Wednesday to fix the time and T
>lace for the next state convention, e
vhich is to name the delegates to the
lational convention. Senators Martin
ind Swanson will be two of the four
Lelegates at large, with Gov Stuart and u
Jeut. Gov. Ellyson as the other two. h
The selection of a state chairman oirill
attract attention. State Chairman j"
Sllyson, who has held the post for
wenty-flve years, is expected to step d
iside, being a candidate for governor.
Ie is also the mentber of the demo- w
ratic national committee. The names of g
^representatives Glass of Lynchburg, -?v
f'lood of Appomattox, Rorer A. James u
tf Danville and Judge R. T. W. Duke tl
>f Charlottesville are mentioned for
tate chairman. al
Roanoke, Norfolk, Lynchburg and
tichmond will make bids for the con- ?
ention, and will have large delega- A
ions here to present the claims of
hose places. Many persons prefer some
ither place than Richmond, for the Al
eason that this city gets nearly everyhiVig
else.
The convention will instruct its deleration
to vote for the nomination of
'resident Wilson, no other name being "!
lentioned in connection with the noinnation
in this state. ca
WAR CUTS WHISKY OUTPUT. 1,1
in
'our Big Kentucky Distilleries Turn ^
V a Iri n m rtf AIaaLaI
IU -H&CitVlUg VI OlbUUVl. til
LEXINGTON, Ky.. March 18.?With
nnouncement of the sale at Midway, bl
ly.. today of one of the largest disileries
in that section of Kentucky
> Cincinnati and Louisville interests
became known that this one and
tree others of Kentucky's leading '
lanufacfurers of whisky would cease wi
taking this product and devote their to
riergies to making alcohol to fill orers
for export to European nations trl
igaged 'in war. . PI
The three other distilleries are Is- P<
ited near Lexington, if tri
CURTAIN OF FIRE
CHECKS GERMANS
IN VAUX SECTION
>own Prince's Men Unable to
Reach French Trenches, ,
According to Paris.
TEUTONS IN ATTACK
IN LORRAINE REGION
?enetrate Advanced Enemy Posi?
tion. But Subsequently Are
Driven Out, Is Report.
BOMBARDMENTS ARE HEAVY
Artillery Action Particularly Intense
Near Dixmude, Noordscboote.
Bois Bourrus and
Montzeville.
LONDON, March 18. ? Alhough
the great battle around
k'erdun has materially slackened
n its intensity, both Germans
ind French continue their infanry
actions at several points. The
German plan to seize both the
,ullage and fort of Yaux evidently
las not been entirely abandoned,
icveral attacks in this section bcng
reported by the French war
iffice.
It is believed in London that
he present lull but prefaces
urther intense infantry and arillery
fighting in the whole Verlun
region, for though the Gernans
in their four weeks of fightng
have failed to capture Verlun,
it is not believed possible
hat they will abandon the effort
ind admit of defeat.
French Communication.
Thp following French official com
nunicatlon was issued by the war ofice
tonight:.
"In Belgium our artillery shattered
;nemy trenches in the region of Boetinghe
' 'Between the Oise and the Aisne we
helled a German troop proceeding in
.he direction of Vassens, northwest of
toissons. f .
"West of the Meuse the enemy bom>arded
quite violently the region of
5ois Bourrus and Montzeville.
"On the right bank, after intense
irtillery preparation, the enemy delivered
in the course of the day a seriee
>f j>artial attacks between the vilage
of Vaux and the wood south of
iaudromont farm. Arrested by Our
urtain of fire, he was not able to
each our trenches at any point.
Munitions Depot Exploded.
"Our batteries were very active along
he whole front, particularly in the
iVoevre, where our fire caused the ex>losion
of a munitions depot in the
doranvilie wood.
"In I.orraine the Germans attacked our
tositions in the region of Thiaville.
iome enemy detachments which had
ucceeded in penetrating our advanced
rench were immediately driven out
>y a counter attack.
About 7 o'clock in the evening the
iermans fired two shells of large
aliber in the direction of Belfort."
The Belgian official communication
eads: "The artillery actions took on
rreater intensity, especially in the regions
of hixmude and Noordsohoote."
Activity of Canadians.
OTTAWA, Out.. March IS.?Activity
y the artillery of the Canadian troops
rj France is reported in a communicaion
from Canadian headquarters in
'ranee received by Gen. Sir Sam
lughes today.
"On March 10," the report says, "our
ftv-third trench mortar battery boinarded
an enemy strong point and succeeded
in breaching the German paraet
in several places. The following
ay our fourth and fifth field artillery
rigades, in conjunction with our
rench mortar batteries, engaged in a
ombined shoot on the same objective,
he bombardment resulted in considrable
damage to-the enemy's works.
Shell German Trenches.
"On the night of March 8 our bat^ries
shelled the German trenches
eavily. Our sixth field artillery briade
more than once silenced enemy
each mortars and machine guns and
emonsneu aumc UClman uug-wuio.
"On some sections of our front there
as considerable development jp rifle
renade activity, but the superior
eight of the Are from our grenades
sually proved effective in silencing
le enemy. *
"Our patrols were accordingly active
long the whole front."
GREE TO PREPARE FOR WAR.
otal of 2,500 Boys Enrolled in
New York and Brooklyn.
NEW YORK, March 18.?More than
500 boys of the elementary schools of
ew York and Brooklyn answered tlie
.11 of the National School Camp Assoation
today and signified their will*
gness to prepare themselves for war
time of p'eace. The boys enrolled at
mories and United States Army offers
were in charge of the registraun.
rhe boys will wear army uniforms,
it guns will not be supplied them,
was explained that the effort is to '
list a million boys in the movement.
Transport Sails for Pensacola.
PHILADELPHIA. March IS.?lailm
ith sufficient food and other supplies
last 200 men for three months, the
ensport Hancock sailed from the
= __.... ?J ?-*- a - J? .. '
liia?reipiii*i mux w j jfliu iaic ivubj iui ?y>-.
ins^colak Fla., to wait ordeu. TIm4 .l
uMVort took only ber i nn ?
