THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair and warmer to-day and to-morrow;
. moderate winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 34: lowest, 7.
totalled weather, mall ami marine reports ui paso 17.
IT SHINES FOB ALL
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 201.
NEW YORK, SUNDAY, MARCH 19, 1916. Copright, mt.bv tht Run Printing and Publishing AttorAatlon.
66 PAGES.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
GERMANS FAIL
IN NEW ATTACK
AGAINST VAUX
jjeric ul' Axsaults North of
Vciilnn ltrt'aKs Down
I nder French Fire.
Al.TIM.K1tV Ar.TIVK'
0VJ5K WIDE FB0.NT
'tmti I able enite to Tin; ft".
I'tim. March ti. The. (trrmans re
f ,., .1 their attack In tho region ot Vaux
tn Mt fulled to cause any change In
t .itll.t.i'P
i.. ittaca. like the violent assaults
tt mi'K'il the earlier effort of the
, i to alliance In tills sector, war
0 1
, . 'It i '. mi
intense bomhaidnient.
I or ii' occasion the Infantry force,
tn, I to carry homo the utta -K were
, 1 -n.g tliesu smaller force the
t; tnalb- II series of assaults
... -ttli I 'ie bel'-vcri, the VU.x I11.1KV
t'i : tli' "ooJ to tin. routh of the. Huudru
,,' f.riu The Ftetieh artillery, tna
, i e tuns unJ tllles thiuiv oi.t tin; eu
t.i.i.y ilie curia. n timl nt no po nt were
I. tiii.iians able to reach the Trench
lltn .
Ii. iv bombardments occurred in the
i ii i -i nf tne iliy In the Verdun sector.
liinn.in artillery directed nn cepc
, , i .. ivv tin. against tint Montzevllle
1 - l. 'urrus line on the vvebt hank of
t.-.r Mi an The Trench suns wi re also
ir on the whole front. li.irtlcuUrly In
Hie h.i. vrc A ( riuuii munition depot
ulimn up In the Mor.invillc woods,
i, , hi-: of D.imloup.
ii .aim that Cirinan tro.Y were.
I i.mURlit north to the Vinlun front
! (iMctn pail of the .St. -Mlhtel
i . ...lid the Frtii.-lt suns to l.ccv
i- r-av- botttb.u'dmetit laet nlK.it of
i .M.I bitweui Apietiioi.t and Vlg
i I'luhl Hi-Mimed nt Vnu.
T 'i al niiuinuiihiui tss.ucd by tho
( .i War Willie to.ntijlit tiillottH!
I'. 'a-.um our artllluy destroyed
i ti i in net. In the legion of Hoes-
ue-:' Die Din' lllld the M-me ue
.i ' ImI li. tniJli tlo.ipe, wht.h Wero
ik toward V.isii.nc, northei-t
):' tue .Men.".' the enemy bom-
it.i i.iiiiKrnhio Ioletiee the
tl.i Itjii lt.iiirrii! and Mont-
i. rleht ImiiU of the .Mi-Use,
titeii... in tiller preparation,
1 dlrctijil In the coitihe of the
uf vanial attni'li between
J. "f ailll the wnyil to
; the 11 itidroinonl farm.
j i.v our tire cut lain, he w.if nut
i-ffti our ti'Muhe" at afly
! ,'t, 'ii'f weir ery n.'tlve on
"f troni, tiot.ibl.i i'I tl'O
wli'Me tlilr nn' i Milted lht
"i ft a iiiiiiillloli depot III the
I.- Moranvllle.
' -ralue the ticrmans made nn
i.r ..ue ji..-IMiui In lh icitlnn
It. Soiih enemy troopi wlin
' I niir iilvineed trench were
. ii of It liiniicillately by a
" -I..
. .i. ii-i. til.nlKllt the !er
1 two Mieli. nf i;rc.it oilihre
II'' Itelfi.lt.
tout. .' .'Ilillillii'l'. told nf
aitidi : lire ui Hill "OO
' ir i. iun wood, to tl.e w.M of
i" the ir.Ttn.iliN made
i ;
No Infitittr.t lelion,
.i.iiii i oiiiiiiiinlipi, rfrri iliB
diirlni; tne hum. M:
' ii Sr.'iiime (.eetor uf Cinirton
t e ie llk'lltlllk with
h n rrtajltid to our ndvali
Ae.i .Meiie ve directed
' a'.il lir,, on the termini
i'- n the direction uf UIU Jt;
. j tin' ,oIm d"h 'iriMU. To
i IK- i did mil rerpotid.
t.1 titn Mmv iliere wa;. a In.
In 'ii i.ieim nt In the reclon of
T n M.i- intermittent mill-
; i ut'ner polnth In tlilh sector
i m- tin Vur" .it Moiilain
It ui I. ii-iii and t,e Kparset.
' i I Si. .'lihtel our Ions
iill" l.iimharih.d all hmt
r.)j.l.iV hllween iiniilit
' . . 'I' ei. iiur which It hid heen
' i i . ertuhi i( chnetitH of Hie
: iii.ir'htnj; In a tiorthiTly
ii hi pne ot a foe and low
' 'en i, aviator wre active In
it Wrdiiu, A tJerman nero.
' ' i' 1' ikker type appeared and
e' 'ni'i iaih.i;eij,
the tiiflit of March 17-K a
' pew nit en French aeroplanes
'or !"i!iibarilinut dropped
i rue ciilhrii hhellh, forty on
r -.ii ht.illnii at f'oiiflatiH and
' t ip Metz-SablmiN htatluii.
i' i- tell .tecuralely. A iium
i ii isifin were nherei on the
i Ml three urea wero Ml.irted In
.- O'
I ei ei tna"lnne w ere taitijected
! i e.itiniiiiHil'iiK during thlH
t km all letnnieil utldamased.
if Ui coiiihc of an ofTcmdve
..' unee another uf our air
!
,
I'-
f
I
t j
II
ill ripped ten lieln on thn
' .ii Mleuitn and ttvn more on
1 htatlnti at Arnavllle.
i.-i
IH U.I MORT HOMME.
I'ri-nrh 1:, litmus, (thru lint Denial
if i.ermnn Aasertlon,
m.hi.v Manli Is The French
I'.mi.,
-is announced to.ilay that It had re
"' 1 'tit. ip'tiutm from Parln to deny
JinMi i n ..i- thai lieitiiaii forces wero
Jllg ui 1 portion of I, Mmt Homme
J''rtl Mat, Mill). Tho Herman War
I is .isM-rted that the (Sermans
lU. this pnyton,
"'Khilna IllmliiUhr, Xnym llrrlln.
htu is, via liiidon. Match IS. Army
Ji'-'l'imirterb Issued the following Mate
njtit to-day regarding oeratlons In the
I'lf iiitiB activities on Is-ith sides
Jtilirrlay w,.rn .fH vigorous-,
j Win Active 011 llrlllah Mne.
t frtal Ca'.le Peipatch to Till St.
IWixj.v, March Ik, Thn following re
trnm llrltlsh Headquarterb In
"at,(h WJM Bsue(1 to-nlKht by the oftl
ai prt.s!, bureau;
On the front generally there la noth
nt? to rsport beyond nrtlllery uctlvlty
wut AUilcourl, the Hoheuzullerii re
aoubt, Uully-Urcnay (uouthWMit or L
") Ypres nnd WleUJe.
THE SUN TO-DAY
CONSISTS OF SEVEN SECTIONS
AS FOLLOWS)
tlKZI Ueneral Newi . . II
SECOND -Sporting. Krnneli.
Automobile i
THIRD -Society, Drama. Muiic.
School!, Fathioni . . 10
FOURTH Pictorial and Fajhion
Magarine . . .8
FIFTH Lithogravure Supplement,
Aft ... . .8
SIXTH -Spetial Featufei. Booki,
Querica, Clieia ... 12
5l'.Vr-Kortign. Real Ctate.
Gardeni, Poultry, Finan
cial, Froblemi ... 10
Total
66
ReaJen or ntuiitaltrs uho Jo not rt
tttH all of that itctlons uUI confer a
foxor on"Tht Sun" ity notifying tht Put
lltatlon Department al onet fy the phone
(2200 Betltmari) oni minlnf stttltm
ulll fe promptly Joruti'JeJ If poalhle.
WESTMINSTER WINS
LADRELSIN EGYPT
Dnko liul His Armored Citr
SllllldlTll in out of
Si'misi Forve.
BRITISH, ADVANCE lllti
.s;ien( Cltite pfcA tn Tm siv.
I.onpon. March 1. An official -late-
I ment Usu'd by the War Office to-day
tell of nn exploit of the armored auto.
I mobile rquadron under the Puke of
Westminster on the vestern frontier of
i-ftypt. The xiiunilrnn waf prc-ented
by the lul:e to the iSovtrnnient early
In the war and dihtlmtulshc.l ltelf at
Neuve Chiipclle.
A'.xordlm; to to-da.'3 btnti ment. the
HU.nl l on wat U"ed to dl.po-v "f the
Smuiisl tail i dtfi Heen In the puri-iil: of
the tribesmen near Solium, on the Kiryp-t!ati-Trliolltan
frontier The utmne
In the niachlneh nhot down the ciew of
a Held Ktin and l.wi inichine JUtib which
touch! to may the pursuit and the action
tltuilly resulted In the capture uf all
tint trllx.meH'rt tirtlllery. The ItrltlMi
advance totalled IJrt mile.-.
The etatenient :u as follow-.
Iteporth have been recelveil from
officer" returned from Solium O.KHt
rea-anlli'if the action of arinoi-id earn
on Tue.-day lmdcr tho Duko of Went
nihintir.
An ntTopIano recintiaNMince dhcov
ernil It a' the Itlrwar ci.mp w al- t inpt
ami ordrrii vr iW n to tniiue the
trlhri ineii. The iinln camp wih tmi
tweiit .fle lllfl. Wekt of Solium A.'
the earn appruncheJ one kuii and twn
IIHUhhlC KUlf . "lie P'lu ii'tloil. Tllen"
were nuartly handled h; the em my,
but the Run t : him wire hliot down.
Tho car dnhei at ihe camp, the
em my hcattrrnl and the cii-nilt pro
eeeilel. After ten mllesi a petrol hliott
asi thriateiied.
All tho eiieni) artillery, amounting
to threo kuii.". nine machine tii".
twenty-four hiiarc barreb iind furt
reolverh. with ..111111111111111111, was rap
tured, .Vim ti .0110 lulhonerh, a part
of the .ihliorieiurl iTewM helped In
the Senuhhl. were le.eiied 'ur car
tlnltliH weri1 one oft leer wounded,
InirhiK the oieratluti we advanced
15" inlleH. The report of Nurl's death
1h untrue.
The Hul.e of Wehtlll. lister tllMlll
irul.slt.'d himself in rraiu-e In Siptom
her, IMI, by lesculnc t'npt. iireiife!
when the Iht'er w.ih wounded. The
rnilie ran forward under lire and car
ried the faptaltl on the lllld. A little
later In the Mine month he .i hr-nt
to I wiiih in with Important d'-patcliee
frnoi lh" front. In April, lpKi, the
arinvred motor err siii:ulion, ilnaiii-ed
ami trained hj the tule, s.iitud Uf
llrst noiillon at Nellie I'hapelle. The
cars e ere tied al that lime In dlhlodc
I11K (,-un crewf ami other "Jerinaii de.
tiwlnuents from ,iu 'tiiuin whlc threat
ened to eailj'c, trouhlo to tho Ilillthh
force?,
At the opennm of the war th" puke
received, an app ilinment 'u the I'len.jh
htnft.
MR. MORGAN HOME TO-DAY.
Will Arrive on Hie Phltnilelphln
Thin .Moriilnu.
.1. Plcrpont Morgan v Ml arrlvn In N'rw
York this morning 011 the American liner
Philadelphia from Liverpool, The ve
id Is expected I" reach the Hook before
daylight and dock at f ;3 A. M.
No preparations havn been niado to
take the financier front the liner to hla
yacht, the Corsair. He will illremb.irk
on the Amerlian I.lnn pier and probably
go at once to his home.
II Is expected that Mr. Moigan will
bo rt called as a witness In the Thomp
son Investigation and will appear on
tho stund next Friday.
TO PREACH BY WIRELESS.
Chlcnao hiirt li Will l.ltrrnlly ;el
tlriingr From Mi.
Cmicaoo, March 1. A, sermon will
ome out of the sky with u flash of sparks
or the coiigrt-iatlou ,,f tniiiimii'l ll.qitlsi
ChurcJi. 2330 Michigan liveiitie, 10.
morrow evening, and at Its conclusion
the congregation will Join In lending out
litttuBi'X nf MilrHual rhei-r and greeting,
A complete wireless oiltllt Vrtit, in
hlalled In the church auditorium to.day
and the Itev. Joluihloiii' Meyns an
nounceil that Ids herinon 'voulil be sent
out from a wlrelfhe station downtown.
"It will be us near like a iiir-"wage from
heaven us I think itnild well be tilven,"
nilrl Mr, Mtyere.
KILLED BY HIS OWN SENTRY.
I'. S. Trooper Mint When r
Failed to Answer Hall.
Fort Hmhb, Tex., March m, Pi hate
Dean Hlnck. Troop H. Seventh Fnlted
States Cavalry, died here this morning
mid was burled this evening as a testilt
of wounds received while on duty south
of lliichltii, N. M., on WediiesdAy when
lie failed to answer the hulling of a
sentry In his own tt-gliiieiit and was
shot,
The sentry challenged Hlaek, vt ho said
he did nut hear the challenge, The next
mor.onl he was shot. He was brought
to Fort miss for treatment.
SECOND DUTCH
LINER IS SUNK;
U BOAT BLAMED
Palcmbimjr Sent Down Off
Coast of England Pas
sengers Safe.
THREE TORPEDOES
FIRED, SAILORS SAY
."pedal I'Jble Pet patch to The Sex.
IaiNpon, March Id. The Dutch liner
I'alembatiK whm hunlt this mornltiK rtjr
Ualloper l.tuht, otT the coiut of lCcfex.
Thla Is the second Dutch liner funis
within three Uny. Acconllnir to saltan
of the 1'alcinbaliB the enhe wiih at
tacked by a tSerinan rubmarlnn thin
mwnlng nt 10:30 and sent to the bot
tom In nine mlnutea. Three torpedoes
were tired, tliey my.
T.ie I'alembanR- curried two Dutch
pahsetiKrrs and crew of tlfty-Ilve. All
on bo.nd were Kaved, although nine of
the crew were Injured by the explo
Motif. Of the three torpedoe tired at
the ventel the llrst is said to have rtruck
lift, the hecotid forward and the thtrd
amldslilpsi.
Tim sinking- of the Itrltlh brtuillti
Willie, vresumably by a submarine, near
the lUnd of ValcntUt. off thn west cooKt
of Ireland, has been it-ported. Theh-en
turn niaklm up Uie.crew- were nved
Ameterdatn detipatchea ktate that the
Swedloh Kte.mlhhlp Ark wax dmiiaKiii by
a tiilne otT tho North Hinder IlKhU-hlp
on Friday nltfht Tile venrel - towed
to the Hook of Holland. It in recalled
that the Dutrh liner Tabaulla w-aa Kunk
on .Match 15 lit this vicinity.
The JMlembaiiB was u Uottcrdajn-
l.loyd liner of fi.r.It tons, She was 432
feet 111 length and was bum 111 inn.
Sins wiiii I.L-t reported at lilbraltar on
February bound from Ilatavla, Java,
for K.'lli ril.un.
The Dutch liner Tubantla of the Hoi-
landsche-l.loyd i-onipany was sunk 011
the night of March 1 ft off the Dutch
coast Four pel sons are believed to have
been lost. The llrst and fourth office
.1 1.1 1.. ..mi.i....i t...s.
I'l 1IIV t-lllll III. 1.1V UILI,UI1I9 11 V IIIU iyUII.ll 1
Ministry of Marine that they had seen
tho white wake of a torped,-, Some of 1
the passengers said they thought the
vessel was sunk by .1 mine, but the ma-
Jorlty of the survivors Incline to the
b. lief that It was u torpedo from a sub-
marine.
A'Or .4 GERM AS MINE.
I
Rrltlah
Merlin . ews pa ter Infer
I'.iplotiir tank l.lner.
rSr.M.lv, via Uiinlon. March 18
,
The,
'Ivitmis Now Agency quote (isrniHil
wspapers io laying thai the mine I
,I..K I.I.. . .l. ik. r.... .1. t
( which iiii-uniably miiIi th fmtch Meatn
stitti 'lub.nitla In the North Sea wasvrob
Im! not ot 'Irtlli.lll origin
"The newspapers state that the lalfM
(tatlstii-hi In. II. -tie that It wan not a Oer-
Hi.itittiltie." nays the agency, "Sliice th.. he-
gitiiili-.g of tne war t'ls mltie liave tioen
washnl up nn the f Hitch coast. Of thee
4i w.re of Hrltis.li oristln, J French. 301
unk. .inn and onli i;u Herman.
Ilegm-illtig Itlchanl Schilling, who wap
a pashenger mi thr liner when she hank.
Id" newhisip-ra state that he In an Ameri
can anil was uii his way to lllu tie Janeiro
.0 Hi. teineMitntlve of a New York life
lieiir.ince conniMiiy Tliey quote him aa
-1.; no, 111 11 11 mine c.iuseu 111c nie.iMer.
1,1
I PUTS BLAME OS' U HO AT
llitteh l.lnr t(rnt Taliantla
But Torpedoed.
Hi 1. sos Atr.K. March !. The Ilol-
l.indhche l.luy.l agent a) Muenus Ay re
h.ild to-day thai he hud received infor
mation that , submarine torpedoed '.ho
Tubanlia on March li otT the Dutch
co.lht
Cri Vociijit condemn the kinking of
lh- vessel and demands (bat the f.ov
1 rniiieiit conduct an Inquiry. The paper
s.iy s .
It is impohsime to admit the right to
iiiieiriiju naviKaiioH neiween neutral 11a-.
Hour- and to attack a steamship engaged
Ill H,lhlicer .-ervlce hettien llnlleritum
.1111 Miienox Ayres."
OFFICERS CERTA1S.
I. Hokums u( Tiihaulla o Hftrrar
Mil- n'm Torpedoed,
WA.siitNi,-ios.. March 1 V The Ameri-i
cm 1 I onsill at neterdaiii reported to-1
. ! . ",,k'"r,Y"i. '"""Out -
1.11 he Dutch l..iiiishlp Tubantla swear
that the vessel was torpedoed and the
passengers are also of that opinion
Four persons are still missing and
are believed lost, Tile Consul says that
Itlchanl Schilling, an American who wa
saved with his wife and daughter. In
coimrcte.) with the New York Life Insur
uii.'i. Company.
U. S. MUNITIONS FLOOD MEXICO.
N.oilil.ooo Hound, 1(1,0110 Nnmll
trots I'riiti Since Villa Haiti.
San Antonio. Match IS. United
Stales ciisioni remit ts show that more
than S.OHh.ihii.) rounds of ammunition
t 1 1.1 1.1 .......
1111111 in-eii eiiilil'iii ai ross ine ooruer 11110
: Mexico since the Villa raid at Colum
bus, shipments of small arms aggregate
! a little over Ih.OOii weapons. Iti-ports
to army headnuarters here indicate that
there are Immense quantities of muni-
I tloni in Mexico,
TO PUNISH NEWS SMUGGLERS.
Major tninptr Warn Correspond
ent at I'ttliiiiiliu. .', H,
fou-.Mirs, N. M March IS, Major !
it 11. .-anipie, conimaiHiitig tno suiply
basn here for the Pershing column, told
the, newspaper men whom be called be
torn him to-day that he would Invoke
the Federal lawn against any corrc
rpondem attempting to smuggle out
III ws,
'The man who setfds 'out a scoop Is an
arcn criminal, ne declared, "nnd I will
(see Ihut he Is punished under the Fed-
see tiiut ne is punlsiieii under the Fed-
e.al defenc. .,ct. While this expetl, I
Is a test of our preparedness t uHa
gives us 11 chance to test our power to
censor the news anil we are going to find
out vvlieio vi ! stand,
"If inrri-sponileiits continue to slip out
neiAii we nic going to take net Inn that
will put soinelKwIy behind the bins. When
vvc suppicuM news It Is to keep our
iimvi iiicntH from the enemy. If the
enemy Icains these movements It may
cost live nf manv of our men."
N. Y. LAWYER
SLAIN BY WIFE;
SHE IS FREED
Arthur English, Son of
"Ben Bolt" Author, Shot
Five Times.
CHILD'S STORY TO
JURY SAVES 31 OTHER
rni.r.f:r.!CK, Md., March U. Arthur
Ungllsh. son of the late Tlioma- Dunn
Kngllttli, who wroto "lien Ho'.t." wan shot
nnd klllid to-day by hl wife. Klolhe
Young KnBlIsh, at the family homo near
Indian Kprlns", thin county. Mrs. Km;
llsh cluliii!) hhe tired In self-defence, her
husband having drawn a revolver upon
hef. She fired twelve shots, live of
which entered her husb.ind'8 body. A
Coroner's Jury exonerated Mrs. Kngllsh
to-night.
Immediately after the shootlnc Mrs.
KHRllh.li left her four children with a
nelRhbor und then hurried to the nearest
telephone station, about a mile dhtant,
for a doctor and then telephoned to po
lice headquarters here asking a warrant
for her husband's arrest, he having
threatened her life.
Kngllsli. who win .1 N'ew Vork lawyer
of 27 Cedar street, was poorly clad. Ho
had on a pair of old overalls and a shirt
und a pair of sport .me. Kvery cham
ber of the revolver on tho floor was
empty. One bullet tore through ling
lish'it chin, another piened nit- heart, two
penetrated 1ih stoiiuen and the 11 ft li
entered his tin ant.
The house w.m tnoi.tiu-ei llriilinn
furniture and china were' Heatterod
about the room when Sheriff Itoilerlck.
State Attorney Anders anil Magistrate
lllll arrived 011 L10 NCeiie. Mrh. Kngllsn
sllu-e the shooting has been In a highly
nervous state, requiring the services of
a physician.
The parties are prominent In foetal
circle here. Mrs. F.nglish 1& the daugh
ter of tho late Met 'Unlock Young
wealthy Inventor. Hefore her marriage
10 r.llKlltin Mlij was prniHIIiem m reil-
. . , ... ... .
"' hne tnarrit.l about twelve
'
Married 1.1 fe I'nhnitpy.
. .Tt tie- . i. lr
p(
.! vit.v n.-.i f..n.i.
treated his wife cruelly. Some of them
were, much concerned about her safetv
nii'i v-ii,,,,', , .lift iieinuuiir -ihihs mill
recently l'.nglish was wor.se than err
and made life ahmct niil-.ire Lie for
Mrs. Ihigllsh, threatening at time to
take her life.
Till morning the two jniitig sons mre
put to work by the father chopping
t-.. 1-.- ...... . .
Mood, Kcm-lng that the elder 1oj
was not well, Mrh. lhigllsii v.-tit out
and asked that he be allowed lo stup.
lingllfh tlew into a r.igi. It l. haid.
ilreatly frightened bi his threats of
bodily harm ittal by his sat age inaiiner
Mrs. i;ngllh went Into the houe ami
to her room, whete s,,. xMired a email
pistol, which formerly belonged to her ;
r.lh.n lt,A ... !.... I .1.1. I.. I. ... I .... I
i.ui- 1. -n.- i.nni-'i iiur. 111 net- iuf-U!n
and proceeded abmit her iKiu.-tmhl
duties.
Shortly afl'rti.irrl KugMsli wnt Into
the dining room, where his wife was.
In a fury of ang.r he :nik a hammer.
broke furniture and smashed . liln.uvari'
.His wire begged him to stop, hut tit's.
! only seemed to make him unr,.. I
When again Importuned tu desist he
crashed Into the buokcase aid secun d I
H Calibre revolver, having. It !h
claimed, mat lie would rttiMi her. Ah.
, he raised his arm Mrs. Cngllsh, it js
sam, siipiw-11 ner piium from ner bosom
and iireu, ,-u,. emptied t,i,. tlv.- 1 ha'ti.
hers of her pistol, then pl.-ked mi 1,1,
revolver from the iluor nnd tl-nl .ill
seven shots at him.
It Is supposed that s'le w-ts insane
from fright, for after ne had Mm'
twelve times, she rushed upstairs and
reloaded her own pistol again,
The Wife' Xtory.
. Al trotter h l"l"t tn-niL-lil Mis.
laigllell testified !
yiiier oreaittiisi 1 Miiiawi 1111111 uie
house to the yard and explained to Mr.
F.llL'hah that the b.iif hid nut been well.
I nuked I1I111 tti.it tie let the bnvh clean
out the chicken holier. Instead of 1 hopping
wood. Then li,. called me n, iiani.'. I
went to tie house .mil lit ivein t.i tnv
room, where I picked up .1 revolver that
was glvrn ine w Inn 11 little girl bv my
flitll.Pi t uas a .32 calibre. From tli'ie
., went to the kitchen, where I b,,.., .
washing dishes. Artlmr mine it. . il ,
,,lt ,, . ,,,, rm ort. llo 1
gan to bleak up dishes
"I told hint 1 would get on my Lines
If he would stop brraklng my dishes, It j
was the last set I had. I told him I I
would never again Interfere with hint
and tin. children. He said he would)
finish me and keep the buys worku.g all I
day. He then re i lied up to a cub
board where he. always kept a icvolver. '
He said. 'I don't want you on your'
knees. I will kilt you ' I
"Then I tlnd, I kepi on tiring, I wa.s!
so excited, and emptied the rrvolvtr. Hef
fell when I began firing, but 1 picked up
ins revolver, wnicil If 11 10 me table. I
1 '"'In't think he was dead and was nfr.ild I
lllu ui.tlltil Ulll in. I il,i.l f.. r .
ro... u. s.ni- in.t 1111
I really did not intend to kill him. 1 rial 1
It to save my life," j
Child Whit Tragedy.
Kutb. the seven-year-old daughter, cm - j
roborated the statement of her nndliei 1
"I heard papa say M will llni.-li Mum.'
Mum gut the pistol and was washing 1
the dishes. She asked papa i.ot to
iiieaK me ilisne.s. 1 was stainllii-! n Ilie
door when Mum shot. The iHiys w,.e
splitting and cnupping wood."
"He didn't treat her verv nicely," I
responded the girl In iinswer to ,1 ijiii.--
tlou from an uttoiiiey, Tim giil said'
that while she whs standing in t ! r j
door dir. Ing the shoollng she nun rait'
looking at either her t ithi- or nio;'i,.; ,
The Corntier'H Jury to-night -. n-leri-d
11 verdict "Jhat Arthur llnijllsli .un..
to his death from ImlV wound pro-
iiucrn ny snois inniricii ny .;fos.c Ihig
tu,!, ,. we exiuiemte he, fril,
,,MV XTev-.-V ' '"
blame whtteve
During the trail the youiikesi n.-il.d
of 'Mrs, i:ngttsh clung to lis ninths
Later during tho hearing tho child
tenmpered nlout the room singing an 1
talking.
Al tilSTA HPK. IAI t:iM l. VI, l,v
Alkrn dint AiiiiiihIh VI I h'l il'TIIIlll.X' ll.Vll..
WAV. llntit Inn and ulatfrnoiu ! r-ihir ,-sr
t.'ompMrtineiil car dsllv to Aukiisi-.i. itlnlni
cur service. N, V, Ulttce, Kltth Are.
.tat ,
HAY ARMY BILL
NOW WILSON'S,
CONGRESS TOLD
President Is Sponsor for
Measure to Thwart Gard
ner's Attack.
SPEAKER CLARK SAYS
IT MEETS DEMANDS
Wasiiikotov, March "18. The Ha.y
hill providing for lucre-is of the regu
lar army to 140,000 men and the re
organization and federalization of the
mllltla rrcelvesl tho Administration'
approval to-day.
Mr. Hay annoujiccd that the meas
ure might be called the President's bill.
Sleaker Clark, stepping from the ros
trum, put tho weight of his Influence
liehlnd It by declaring that It met the
approval of the country and commended
Republican us well tut Democratic mem
tiers of the Military Affulrs Committee
for framing It
"The people of the country want
peace," he said, "but not peace at any
price."
The line of demarcation between no
publlrar and Democrats, however, waj
drawn In tho debate on the bill and
amendments were offered when It was
taken up for consideration section by
section.
Ilcprchentative Mann bald the bill
falls far short of what It ought to be
and characterized It as a preparation
for peace, not war.
Im-reaar tn aitn.non Men.
ttcprt-tciitatlir Kahn. California,
ranking Hepubllean member of the
Military Committee, offered an amend
ment inci easing the size of the regular
urmy from Uti.OOO to 220.000 men. Thin
proposal will be a-ted on next week.
An amendment offered by Representa
tive (iardiier, Massachusetts, to Increase
the Coast Artillery by 5.000 men was
1 ejected.
rleneral debate on the measure was
concluded with the address of Speaker
Clark. Much time will be consumed
In tho discussion of .intendments and
01 f peel tic problems Involved In the
tiliiety-iilnc sections. It In doubtful
whether a final vote will bo taken on
the meaeure for several days.
A l the. outset of to-Jay's debate
Iti-preoi-utatlve Hay made the unqualified
statement that the. House bill has Uie
tiacking of the President. There waa
much speculation whether this meant
Hint the IVesldrnt would aupport the
Hay bill as against th Senate measure,
which provides for a more substantial
army incr.-,iv.
". a 11 authorized by the President tu
Mate" h.ihl Mr. Hay. "tlittt tlllf bill
cnei-ts hi- apiiroval. In oilier wordh, It
Is id- hill It carrlen out the recom
mendation he nude to Congress In his
nichh.tcc. in fact it gum a little further
than the I'rcsldi lit asked us to go.
"It I true that the bill due.-. Hot con
tain the continental army f'aturi, but
tlio President, In suggesting the conti
nental army, whs de-tlrous of come, sort
of machinery to make the land forces
available in time of war. He thinks this
bill makes the National Titian! a sufll
dent force In th'i.e of peace to be avail-1
able a.s a lighting force In cahe of war."
Inspired li linker' Letter,
Mr. Hay's statement is understood to
have been Inspired by the letter of See-ljn
telary of War Maker, published lids ' members state that It w 111 probably rrnno
morning, which appeared to put the ,, early next week.
Administration 111 an attitude of hos-, T,. 'white !lrnie and War Depart
tlluy to the Hay hill ment to-day took cafe to slate that the
There was 1:0 dlff.wence of opinion 1 American troops In Mexico have nn ur
bi'tai.ii lleprtsi-i.tatlve Mann and lie-ire. I ders o occupy any i Itles or towm. dur
st itatlve 11.1v mi ;nc advantage of tire- IIK their campaign lifter V II. 1 Ilie as
p.iieiltiej.., but the minority leader Iooa i.tir.iiire via" Inspired by a report that
,1 olfltieiil view of the adiquucy of the 1 ;en, i"ialra, coniir.andi r of the Carranza
House army bill, 1 garrison at Juarez, had given iiotlco that
The President favors tola bill," tald ueti. Pershing's foret s would not lie per
Mr. Malill. "I have po doubt he favors ) mlttrd to occupy Casiu Cralides or other
t' bill over existing law. I have iiojtownn
li ui tit he lav orb the Senate bill over n, (n (!,.,. p, 'lottos,
"xlsitng law. Hut this If no preparation "
fin trouble ; tine Is only preparation tori It wan reiterated that as the I ers.t-pe.-iie.
The time has comn In thr rela- ng expedition has none of the char
Hons uf our cimti-v to the world w b-n I -icterlstK of a general Invasion 1 and will
I tlilnk It .wee for nn to ionsd.-r tlie.be kept on the move after Mlla thcie
po-slblllty ts well as the probability j N no object '.11 occupying 01 garrl-ontng
and to pieparo -w for what may or cities or ton ns.
might come :o 11.. I The Administration appeals eurrnu-lv
With the war spirit runbliia tli.ougn. I iinM -us that . very possi . c avenue of
out the world. Ill this, the greatest and WMIC - " ,n",1'1 ''f 1 "' -ll.
hot n.illoi, of tl.e world. It vwre Idle . van ' otisuN in Mexico to -lit i.l.ito In
In mi) th .! wo hiiould leave ourselves ' M'-o the true piirpu.ifh. of tc rx
ulti -. tinpieii.iied for posilble war m ll,,lll"on- ....
the hublime i-onfhlem-e that ().., will tak.. 'w'lig to the fact mat : per ,-rnt.
...1 1 us :.s lie dots of diunken men. "f "' Mvxltaii pi'P are unable to
in ti.e s ,.f wai,. now going ;''' 1 '.. "r, Vr: Y"M, "" "!
un. neither s,e will be too careful of tne '!l meet w h doubtful success He
Interests ,,f outslileit." Mr. Mann con- !",r, received tl.e Mate Department
Mined. "Wc constitute the greatest lieu- '' t'llrf atternuoit are lliide, stood to
tral Power in tlie world, We expect to I'-"'; been far from rc.isMirtng
spek with f.me authority -M"-"i'lnie all means possible me be-
' I ins taken from a military standpoint to
Inflm-ncr nf Power. I hasten II. e work of the Pershing cped.
'(ur niRgrstlotiH meet wlih careful
.riiueinptalloli, If not consldelMtlon,
cans,. 01 uie in 1.1.1. or r.inier tne pote ,.
Hal pow. r behind them. And we will
m.t c tlu-oiuh this war to the end with-
out many iiurstloiis arising of the gieat.
, -,.,,. o...,,,' . ... .I,, xui.u. ,.,,t,., ed fioni ('01111111.11. and based at
and very largely it will 1... left t this 1 1,.,,.,,,,,, ((e liu.man. s itiMtlng south
nntlon to protect the li.tcgiity of ncu-.tt!v,M , ..r t :.lli-h a Jimction with Col.
trals thiul.out tin- world, if n.it tol (J,
n.alnlaln the principles of lntiiriiation.il
law most vital to us and the rest of thel IVrtlilnir riiil Inr ii..lli.
"1:.. .1 i. .. . , Acting Seciet.uy of War Scott ...t-
-Wlth the .j i.sllc.i.H that ate to arise , ,,,-mg .t the receipt 01 a lues
after the war It Is the duty of the Fnlted Ha from Pershing ic.,iiesting the
States to prrp-ire now an arniy which , mlne,ll,u. dosp.itch to him of twenty
will mid to the W'lght of the reasons seven Studcbaker water tanks tii.1 rtM.tM t
and suggestions whb h we may make." ,K iut ,. ,md fud .Kl. ,,u.i,.t.tl. s of
Speaker Cluilt. who... appearance on loll af,,lfa and beef. Hen. Scott at
Ilie iioo - w, -is greeieu appiause. sum 1,l., K.IVL. directions to the M.irlerm is
that politics hi. no place In lln; dlseiiK- tera.ener il and the order ws suit out
slou of prep.iiedncss and that the urmy , to-hlghl to tne niauufactui mg coinp.nv
LIU was not a preparednehs measure. T . reinent concerning the coin.
"On such momentou!. occiislons," he lllf,llf!l , Uevt ls ,.,,.,, , ,,., ,
lidded, "we uie al Americans The com- ,,, , ivishll.g Is w.i. ilowii Into th,
niltiif. Ignoring the extrem Ists at both',.,lK1H ,ir,,Hds region. ..Itho.ig.t He,,,
cuds of the Ine, has broiiclit hi a hllt,,,,, refused to say where the icport
.vk.itvllltfr Ilk II f.ltlt?IPlflllxiia iIai. t-.i.. Ill n 1 . v '
I'l'ii- mr' km:
wishes of our countrymen generally Of
course it was not in tl.e power -of Chair-
man Hay and Mr. Kahn and their fellow
labore s to plase ever.vh.Mly No humiili
p.uwr .-mill do tint
lie,., and there will be found one.
my lien.i fro il M.isMichttsett M,.,
-ilni-). n.r Pitlatice. who doe not
Ihinli this bill goei- far eniiugn, and mc.
like my Mend fiom New ork. Mr l.on-
d.ltl Who tlllllks It goes tOO flir. but
tne average American will Indorse It, .
ad after till Is said and done I
Ilie vei:n:e .vilieric.lll I'lHISIIIUtes Hie
strength and r.lory of the lepubllc.
ihu duly or t ongress, not only now
liut always, Is to traiimnute tho will
of tho American people Into law, and
Cgtilliiurtf on. Sixth nga
TROOPS AT VILLA'S HEELS;
MAY HAVE STRUCK BLOW;
ANT1-U. S. FEELING GROWS
Washington Gets Disturb
ing Hyports of Move
Against Cnrrauza.
FEAR AGITATORS
MAY UNITE TROOPS
Orders Sent to Pershing to
Speed Up Capture
of Villa.
WILL ASK CONSULS
TO KEASSUKE PEOPLE
Hope to Use Mexican Bail
wayFleet Ready, if
Needed at Tanipieo.
WAslttNr.TOX, March IS. Kvery effort
b beltw made by the Administration to
bring to a epeedy conclusion the chase
Into Mexico after Villa. Orders have
been ietit to flrlg.-Oen. Pershing to lose
no time In rounding up the bandit chief.
Iteportu of a disturbing character
which have been received here from the
border have convinced olllclaU that the
longer the American forces arc In Mexico
the graver Is the danger of herlous
trouble with the entire Mexican nation.
From authoritative hource thu infor
mation is obtained that the situation in
more delicate than it has been at any
time since the troops crossed the border.
Anti-Carranra ngltatom alor; the bor
der, deliberately misconstruing the iur
poses of the expedition, have sent reports
throughout northern Mexico 10 the effect
that the action taken by the Fnlted
States Is the forerunner of Intervention.
Advantage Is being taken by these
agitators of the fact that Carranza him
self ha ixvpilesced In the expedition to
make It appe-ar that he Is le-lng made
the tool of the American (lovernnient.
How long he will be able, in face of thehe
reporta, to bold hWi forces in line lh a
question which grows mote eeriouu dally.
Caaar of l.a Folletle Action.
Strenuous efforts are being made by
the State Department to counteract
these reports It was at tit hUggetloti
of the Department that the President
yesterday hsd Senator La Follette In
troduce In the Senate Mie concurrent res
olution assuring the Mexican people on
liehalf of Congresti that under no clr-c-uinstanc"
dues the American tinvern
inent contemplate int'rventlon or Inter
ference with the internal affairs; of
Mexico.
As soon a; this resolution has been
acted upon by the House copies of It
will be sent to American t"onsuls In
""I f"r distribution, just as was done
ill the i urrespoiiiletii-e which pass,.,l be
tween the two iiivertitnenth in inntiec
lion with the reciprocal agreement for
the nippreh'.lrm of border raids.
No action was taken on tills rt solution
the House to-day. tint Administration
I lio'i Villa Is believed tu in ;n tint
j vicinity of mountains to the south ami
la-!,,., , ,;r,ii,de. He.:ts to th.
u (r 1 .,,..rt are tin.leistooil to .-t itc
,,,, ,., nudd has establish. d home so. 1
r ,.,,, u, ,itp,.s.s of the Villa,
( fliri aml Mt lhe ,.,, ,-0tmlI nhwu
c.lllle ft Olll,
Ar,MV olllclals to-night expressed the
opinion that from now on it w 1 I be il-fll.
,.ui, , maintain i-onimimication be-v,
(,.,, iv shlng's forces at..' ' birder,
Doubt lh expressed as to 1- , h ,iv ng
, . disianie, the t-l. g.-.i,-., l.nei. -an
(1,.(,n,.,..d
--n. wireless outtlt c.in.e.l by i.ie
p,.iHioii, ..Ulcers Hate. Is of .1 Liulted
r.,UH and not alwates d piM.il.iblc F..-
. ...,n rmmm. a lllld. iilllll.il 01' II... , 1 1 1 1 1
(,...ared to-night, it will not b.i hiirprls.
i,lg (f t1(re utv bins l.ip.s dui-'iig w-hl. 11
there will be no news t the Villa hum
Acting Secretary Polk h id a long con
ference at the White House to-night wpn
the President on the situation Although
It Wiik stated that he went there merely
to discus "routlae" matter., the Pregl
tlent 1 aald to be fully alive to thr nece.
city for quick action. It Is regarded an
possible that If Pershing does not round
up Villa In a short time the expedition
may be withdrawn and assurances ob
tained Irom Carranza that he will pur
sue Villa relentlessly until the latter I
caught.
Hefore his conference with the 'Presi
dent Mr. Polk had a talk with Kllseo
Artedotido, Carranz.Vs Ambassador. Ap
preciating tlio embarrassing plight In
which Carranza finds himself, the acting
Secretary Is understood to have Im
pressed on the Mexican diplomat that
as speed Ig an essential factor to the
success of the Pershing expedition the
United State regards It an Important that
the dr facto (Jovernment should place
the Mexican Northwestern ltallway from
Kl Paso to Casas Urandes at the dis
posal of (Ten. Funston for the transporta
tion of supplies to the Pershing expedi
tion. Arredondo Is believed to have promised
t urge on Carranza that tho privilege
he granted, but called attention to the
bad effect the granting of the request
might have on public opinion.
Raker Confer With Daniel.
Secretary Uaker left to-day for Cleve
land to wind up some personal affairs,
but wilt return to Washington on Tues
day. Ilefoai leaving l.e conferred with
Secretary Daniels concerning the situa
tion a Tamplco. where 100 Americans
are located and where considerable III
feeling Is reported on the part of Car
ranza garrisons.
This hostility. It Is said In despatches
which reached the State Department to
day. has been due partly to the fact that
no copy of the communication addressed
by Carranza to alt his General and
other ofllclals In Mexico concerning the
purposes of the American expedition had
been received by Uen. Nafarette.
Olllclals of the Navy Department state
that If any trouble develops at the rea
port the Atlantic fleet now at tJuan.
tananio can proceed quickly to the hcene.
Heports at the Navy Department to
day from Vera Cruz state that about 200
Americans have arrived there from Me..
Ico city and other Interior points, hav
ing been strongly tit Red by relatives and
friend n t,M i-Mted States t leave
Mexico. Conditions at Vera Cruz are
quiet and after personal Investigation!!
as to the conditions many Americans are
returning to the Interior.
VILLA BAND ROUTS
A CARRANZA FORCE
Killed at 10 Lnyiil Soldiers in
Itattlc West of Torreon,
Is Report.
ilitiVthroN, Tex.. Mar-h IV Fort e
under co.nmat.rl of Villa officers have
defeated and utterly routed the Car.
rat.za army near Noe, ninety miles west
of Torreon. The battle, which r.iRe.1 for
several days, endid to.ilay when the
.'arraiu.i forces, numbering several hun
dred, were routed. It Is reported In des
patches to tho border that Carraiixa's
army left 300 .lead on the field. De
tall of the battle are lacking.
American machine guns are said lo
have played havrsj with the Carranza
troops, which are reporter! as moving
north to join another column.
Hf ports say that the feeling In the
Torn-on district against American ts
Intense and trouble will come unles
something l. done by the rarr.mz.1 i
iciiders. Itiotlng became general 111 tin city
to-day uc-nnliiig to the despatches
Carranza hol.IU-rH after Joining the Villa j
..101 eii.eiu ne, ami- uiiruiv ana t.iuntr.i
mcrlc.ii,h aiid other foreigners
ii.ui) from the ci v. No open
me reported ; tnoi.e who went
, driving
asau!ts
lo.it all
pel soiial 1 ife.-lr.
It Is reported Here that tne ilam.13"
done 111 the nature uf Incendiary tires
and by touting will reach several thou
sand dollais. All attempts to pacify the
roldhr have failed, according to dis
patches. Mexican are crying "Drive
the gilngos out" and "Viva Villa."
The C.urai..a ilrneral, Ileru.inza, In
the State ot Dur.uigo, has deserted and
Joined what It. called the "Paclllhts," a
pirty heartily in sympathy with V.ll.i
lit the present trouble, .1 lrp.iMi trom
Neiiva 1...imIo to-night t .id llrrn:. izn,
1.1 the ht.id uf fli Carrui.a tleserters,
y e.-ler.. ay defeated the Constitutionalist
army in ,1 pUcl.ul battle which la -tied
h.ver.il hours. Tmo Cirianr.i anitv
lost tl.xty killed and fifty tvouiioi-d,
Mu. h arms and munition- were taken,
acioriUliK t adv'ece.
Tin "Pile. Ilsti ' have openly ie-'
ruin. -i d I'arrai.z.i, declaring that In- is 1
tl.e prm ar; .-nusc of the Invas'on by
Hie I'l.ite.l Stall It Is reported that
7..i'..la w.ll Join the new tnov einent ant
ma ich with It :o assist Villa Des
pitchi'i fiom Mevl.o city via Vera Cruz
mention lighting in the Slate ot Du
r.uigr,, but d not say with i-hiiiii
TORREON IN DANGER.
Ili-ltiuct's Tell of Hardship lll.i
Tlirt'Hteiii Clly. 1
III. I'vs.i, Mar -li Is --Allien. -.n't ar
riving here to-day from Tot mm after
ininv day: mi the road to'.d stories of
great lutnl-hlpe hi ri'tmg mil. altho'lgll
tliey ili"l.ired thev weie treated courle.
oiislv by tin .Mcv'.-rili olli.-l.il .The
Spnlli-llltl.ill lllil '
"un Tuesday morning at o'clock we
mie..ei"ei .n milking up a train In which
he employee and their famll.es 111, 111
the TI'. ill .III" plant itlou h-i.l one hot,
ear the employer of the Continental
lluhlier Company of Tornnn anotlic!.
and a third box car was occupied by the
1. iiiloj ee of the Torreon Smeller,
"Without any arciittiiiiodatlons wiiai
i v 1 r and sitting 011 t n floor nn.1 hagga".
W began the Jo'nuey tioith. it ,
Pant 1 no wc hid to wait for ome twenty
h. urj to mike a .Hiiicclioii We Irt't
Torreon liecause to us It looked t If n.
lervelltlou h.ld ciin-.i We Ml that If
th.. Cnn.-titutton.ill.-t.-r ret ilhit.-.l
i.u',.1 be made prii.oiici's ainl vvn ki cw
ib.it if VI. la or lib many sympathizers
tl Ton-coil were I . I.Ike lhe cltV or
mil. tier tin mi ill g.irrtsrin we would ill
mi. icri .1
"As In Tori eon, it ha only ,l small
g irr.h.in. .Hid .1 ' lltib'tilt to sly how
tinny of the uen ale Villiitas Villa
I s.ild I ' have told person. imii.ug inln
Torieon that he wouM take the city by
Mile" ird If he wanted to It would
be .1 verv simple proposition."
.ht:kv noiitii caikii.iw
liloriou- "I..111 1 ..I the SUt 'c'im lie una sie.-Mit
Dot. I' . r:iu. iv 'md -I..I. loom .leei h c e ..
eei tli N.'v York tu V-li.-iill.' wa aOl'TlfXKN
K.vll.WAY M. V (JlUit, tn riltb Avenue
Air
Col. Dodd's Two Columns
Well South of Casas
G rumles.
MEXICAN LEADER JS
HEADED FOB HILLS
Has Divided His Forces in
Small Bands to
Escape.
NEWS GIVEN OUT AT
ABMY HEADQUARTERS
Pershing's -Army Within
Striking Distance of
Advance Guard.
Sas Antonio, Tex.. March IS. A
blow nt tho VllllstHN l.y AmcrtraP
cavalry Is expected at uny moment, or
may havo alrp.idy been struck, was the
rcort given out this evening at army
headquarters here.
Col. l)o,M's two column were at
Colon!.! Dllblaii, ul the edge of Casus
Crandfjt, thL- moniliig. probably within
twenty-five or thirty mile nf Colnnla
(Iracia. where Villa was reported Fri
day with lO'i men. Villa himself mar
I.ot bn there, but his force has been di
vided Into small bodies find u ol.mh
with 0110 of these !. believed to be im
minent. (ion. Fnnstnti s-ilri that the AmtTU&n
Consul at Chihuahua repnrte.1 Villa at
ColonU Ctr.icl.t yesterday. In. r re
ports put hit. m tin body further e-outh.
but If the C'up.-uiii'.lstas art- holding the
luu-ses against him as securely a hajt
been stated Villa will he compelled to
face nbout toon. If Col. lxJ. pushed
his. coluniiis torw.ir.l lust night J
swiftly ,-.s ho h.ih b-eii iinirching they
It Is held, should bo hot on the heeV
of VIII 1 tu-iiiorriiw.
It Wd.s sttitrtl nlticiallv that C.,i
DoddV column i-o,il,i luivo ea.llv
reached C.iea ii ami... Judging by it
prttltlon as r. ported I'rl.l.i). This sup-1-n-ts.
the later .li-esiiiiie.s. which As
sert tint Dodd's ir-giiiHMits risied at
ajoni.i Dublaii yesterday mowing.
Mn Wnll r.tr I'er.lili.B.
Wlictlii r Dod.l will vw.lt fur the ar.
tiv.il of thfi. 1'irstiitigV tii.....'rs fe
fore d.lvriiicliii: further int.. tin- iiioui.
taitious strongholds of the Vllllstn or
wl I coiitiiiiiii lil tlylin; advance w-wt
llol rcvi'.'ilrd
Hut II !e bell, veil t;at if for '.n
other r.tisi.n In- will inlvnnci. at 1.-11
to Colonla (ir.iola vvitlimii ilcliiy 'or
tin- pn-ite.-tlon nf the Mi.rin.eii there
(truci-i -.e in th.' vicinli' of c,.ii ..p..
The Moriiiun.- 111 tin 1mmu.li.1tn vi'inl'v
Of I'lisin lilfl'ldOh ate .-(.n.-lilercl if..
HoivovrT. it in uuders;. n.i tiMt !,.;,',.
mg'h advance cva't v ..- pi.u: .. ..l.y
11. far south .. Di.'Iil',. Iniorni iilo'n
i-..iicu-n ig tin- SpviiiCi .111.1 Ti i h
'Hvaltl.s o.'inttt ov.-r I '. rlilng'i 'n
of roiiiiiiiinic it!on, iind It is known tin;
lire I'l.ih.' lllullgll togl-tller to a.t It.
11-i'of.l from .1 taction" standpoint
Auttiorliattw 1 n 1 . ur nut hi:i in,, ii'i),,
Villa lias .I'll. lc.l his 1 .ne. Into a n'lml.c--of
b.u..- rut tiltc- fiom 1 no 01 so to .i-,
manv as (hi This a, for a iiuinS 1 ..,
teasoiis. nne 1. dm to 1 uw t- as wi - a
.' -i,i ,-is possible in old .In i.irag. n,.
vtab-r ii -I to i.i.ise jiosslbly a illWiu.t
of Xltn r.i ..11 Iriin'.s tor tin ptine C
follow iiu- tin v.ui ins i.il.l'tig bald
That 101 ie-p..i'ii n's ate g.-tt i t- n.'oi
nuiiliiii about th,- Aineiii'.in m ti
M.'WO too ...cut. Hi in spite of f 1 en
s irsl.lp l' rrhpi iisil.l. , . ;, n i' ;.,M .
iil.tio.inclng tn-d.iy that the . en..rivilf
n new reg-.rd.tig trnon in..-, e uen'
w u:n ii.- m, uie more i- g'd ft -.ni;
lll.lled th it there might be ,1 !.. ,, lb
I et.sorsl.lp, and that .. better tr-unl
t11.11 be kep' oil Hiiis getting oil h
'i id all I'h . oriespoiiili .,ik here r .-It'-t'
elr nam. .md ...ll.e-. .ml' rh
paper the) leplc-illt.
It was ninioii.l .it urine !,.,ir.o ..
that I11f.1t illation whlili hid 1101 Li .:
(-..vrn out nt I 1'iu.irti'! .r in e II- ;,;
Iind ber-n pui.ll-li.-il in 1. 1 tali. u,i. -t a',
ireillit-d Willi having be. 11 givm rvt- '.,
( ii 11 Puns'
Col. Dod 's Hooper t have fu 11. e
llill.-s bitimd lb. in it a i.ite (otafe nn
rxpe.'t"d While V 'hi W'.m ret'rl ). ,'t
a eiurc'y pace .. tout of ilin !'..
I ng, the Svci.tl, iti.l Tenth .-. viii,
ciicb.l -wntly along tl.,. base
Slrita del 1 'array and He now !-.-, -'u
III be. ilml tin- ban, in .j m.im fm .
Fifteen l.i.tiiite. .ilin a elma . r;.
messenger had i.iitried Into itt-i Far
h Ttil," - Jieaililj.il'!el-s, till " .mtinall jsr
high, ki.o I hull or, leiiiwd ti . en
ri'.pi.i. h nt -
'CI. Do.'. I Is out of .'asm .( 1
.li." l.e t 1 .1 'Tl.tr. .s lent. n, o he
I. eve I.r , . impel) 1:1. r Ca-as tl.eiiila
last niglit "
liitlu Mi-i'. nil tinreb,
Tin u.-.ri ... ilni Km mi. 11 sn.il, ..1,.'
lo nic .1 reioril mat h t'rr in th hoi.Ut
nnd w.th it l.oi'i-e-' tl.-iii had covet-'
ntore t' t. tlfty in'le In th lt forty
eu lit 110,11
'II. is ''! D.ill ...... altllloiy' aUS
llt'l.i 'I.
"That." r. p:nl rpn I'linaloii ' fr,-V1I..-1
to Mini ulll "
Tli -n 1. .1 o:' Co 1'i.rl.i' 1. ,.
frii.n IP, .. 1. N M . to 1' . it 1 .-.. t
a dis .1 '. ' 1 " v ,.v ..- .
Is Kill. I I-) I- 1 F.iti ' t 1 ,
., lit e-' -. 1 1,
in 1 1 h - 1 -
He' I'm .. I '
Of picked "en id 1 ...
evenly mlb's 111 tu .-i.u -:..u:
