i i
r fm
f 7 r sTrfl&f'l?c&jB&IF;i-
f :. 'rprajpsssj? 'W i
s i i
f
WEATHER FORECAST:
Fair Tonight and Monday
(Full Report on Pago Two.,
NTftlBEIl 3844.
PERSHING SPEEDS ARMY TO
VILLA
ROMANCE
AND BIG
IN RISE OF
Potency in World Affcirs Attaches to Name.
Firnf Has No Rival in Great Britain.
Producing 300,000,000 Pounds of
Powder a Year.
I By JUDSON C. WELUVER.
WILMINGTON, Del., March 10. The flrst impression .1 havo
had since the war broke out of being in the 'enemy's country came
to me with something of a shock when I stepped out of the elevator
in the big du Pont building in this town. '
Right at the elevator entrance I was held up by a perfectly polite .
but very insistent attendant, who looked as if he might have been one
of the later and more elderly recruits to the landwehr.
He eyed me very briefly, and my small black traveling bag very
carefully.
It ought tb have occurred to .me, no doubt, that the bag, though
it contained pajamas, and collars, could easily have been described
in a Mary Roberts' Rinehart detective story as having a sinister look.
t After I had indicated my mission the attendant inquired about the
bag. My explanation that-it contftiried certain casual 'necessities of
apparel seemed not altogether convincing," and I suddenly realfcedthat
I wasin 'the war zpne. and thijti(he.h,a;!m?gh,t be ufldcr uspicioT.v i i
i , So I Opened ih'jttftfjhtfij'U Jhe'chcfgj pi- ,
1 rricfi"TftSp1rtcrfiypff rgcei vel "an "apology,
and was pcrmitte'd to go on about my business . ,
' WijtaingtrJnrfo'esnM'Jtatenajo .be twruiip ifMt can help
The powder "capital of- America, thdseat forrnbre than a1 century or I
the house of du Pont, is now suddenly sprung to fame as the head
quarters of ah industry which has grown to gigantic proportions in '
probably less time than any other ever -did in the history or the
world's business.
The romance of war, of industrial ' power,1 of political potency,
has clustered about the name of du Pont for throe full generations.
The house of du Pont has furnished the lion's share of explosives for
every war America has fought since 18Q3. But never until the last
two years has it risen to the importance of a first-class factor in world
affairs that did not immediately affect the United States.
FORTUNE'S FAVORITES ON EVERY STREET.
Today It s wild that the houso of du
Pont la equipped to produce and actually
1 producing an amount of explosives
larger than Is being manufactured In.
Great Britain. Glided favorites of war-
made fortuno aro pointed out to ou
on every atreej corner In Wilmington.
Almost anybody can show you. Just
as a souvenir. n nglo-fc'rench war
bond, for when the" du Pont Powder
Company paid' Its last dividend, 20 per
cent or the distribution was made In
tlieso bonds, which, or course, had been
taken In part payment for ammunition
sold to the allies' governments.
A natty and fell set Up young man
who was digging away at a pile or
papers at a doak was pointed out as a
Favors Community
Forums on Sunday
Urglne the holding of community fo
rums on Sunday, tho Itcv. John Van
Schalck, Jr., pastor of the Church of Our
Father, In his sermon this morning as
serted that such meetings carried out
tho "real work of tho church."
Dr. Van Schalck took as his text, "1
nm come that thoy might havo life, and
might have It more nboundantly, John
10:10. He said In part;
"Tho Ideal of Jesus should be tho
Ideal of tho church. Ho came that men
might have life, and that they mUht
have It morn abundantly. Church.-B
exist In thj community that the com
munity an.1 all tho Individuals of the
community, mav havo life and havo it
more abundantly. .
"One of thu ways recently proposed In
which we might extend and I deepen the
life of tho community. Is through the
civic forum .with meetings on Sui-dJiy
altornoons In the school houses of tho
ommunlty. Through unfortunate mis
understandings tho opposition has been
nroused of sofe of the best people or
.? I'cWauftk thcm'Vopprtmg this
movement, foi If I looked upon it as
they look upon It, l annum uh" '""
SS J. ., 1H... for not hav ng
JSSXm5ni W.J?ift,-IS?.SS,2itr ideals!
ma do our lluns clcai
und our iilcala
rtv lrlnr fwtm tnnUin
i
"If anybody will stp to think about
It. and reud tho iinwcs of thojo inter
ested in this movement, ho cannot be
lieve for a momonmiiat they ar people
vho want to uPccroto tho Sabbi.tli
day, Intrfere wtlr tho churches, or shock
the rellgloua Jenalbllltles of the com
munity. M
'The naraR of peoplo like Mlsa Mar
garet WiJon, whom T believe Is a
Presbytjmn. Dr. Jackson, a Prcsby-
ierlanrnir.ltcr, should be sufficient In
hrnlv
ill piovcment does pot mean using
f
FROM
OF WAR
INDUSTRY
DU PONTS
itself.
.aubtect deservlnar special Interest, be
cause. It was explained. Just a few
years ago no was an on ice ooy in iiini
office, and now Is worth two or three
million dollar.
The new romance of du Pont has de
veloped so rapidly that even here In
Wilmington the tremendousness of It
all Is not yet quite realized. A few
years ago. In fact, since the beginning
or the present century, the younger
generation of du Fonts bought the du
Pont business from the elder, after a
fashion that It camo to bo a sort ot
ramllv tradition; the sons and nephews
having for some generations been In
the habit, at the psychological time, of
taking" Over the busiies,s, Tom tho
fathers and uncles.
Tho lajt of these Intertamlly trans
(Continued on Page Sixteen.)
the school building for any sect, party,
creed, or cult. It means a meeting or
all sects, parties, creeds, and cults to
exchange ideas, try to understand one.
another better, and to appicclato one
another more.
"The question as to tho desecration
of the Sabbath day rests laigcly upon
misunderstanding.
"Bccauso I believe In the Habbath day
I believe in tho Civic Korum; because '
want to hallow the Habbath clay, 1 am
In favor of these meetings; because 1
believe In my church, and Its divine mis
sion, nd believe in the other churches
of Washington, I welcome this ally,
"The civic forum will oppose mate
rialism. It will substitute a fine, fn
splrng meeting for some of the Im
morality nov centering around th Sab
bnth Day. It will make bigger, better
ond finer men and women, who will
understand one another better and lovo
one another rnore.
"That Is thn roal work of the church.
Church members aro followers of One
who aaiu:
" 'By this shall all men know that
ve are My disciples, If ye have lovo onoi
to another.' . .
I ask the people of this church to
heP clvl 'oru' movement, and
t;nu help to glyo more abundant lite
.to the people of this town."
President at Church.
The President and Mrs. Wilson at
tended services at St, Margaret's Epis
copal Church today. This was the church
attended by Mrs. Wilson before her
marriage. Mrs. Dolling, mother of Mrs.
Wilson, also sat In the Dolling pew.
Tho President and Mrs. Wilson diove
Mis. Boiling to her home In the Cordova
apartments before returning to the
White House after the service.
WASHINGTON, SUNDAY EVENING, MAHCIJ 19, 1016.
I
AVIATORS GUIDING VILLA'S PURSUERS
1jbbHb ' 'JKmLi. ' x .BkM. ' vv
. . .aspavalBH . m&i.&j -VBBB llHiHKLizWSaL.
FIRST LIEUT. CARLETON
CHAPMAN.
E
5
I
.
Gives Novel Demonstration, to
, .ProY.e Argument yolunteer
System-Is Unreildble..
FOR UNIVERSAL TRAINING
By THEODORE TILLER. "
The flrnt test of the itrer.gth of tho
"big army" sentiment In Congress
will come In the House tomorrow
when a vole Is laken on the Kahn
umq,ndniL'nt to the army reorganiza
tion bill.
This amendment proposes a milbllo
oirny of 220,000 men, an compared
with 10,000 men provided for In the
pndlng Hay bill ,
CoogTcsKinan Julius Kahn, the rank
ing Republican member of tho Mil
itary Affairs Committee, signed the
unanimous ccmmltteo report" oh tho
Hay bill, but reserved tho right to
offer amendment.
It Is not hollos td the "I. It army'
amendment will carry In the House, but
It is expected to receUe n ood vote
When the Senate and House send
their icspectlve arm bills to confer
ence there Is general belief that a
compromise nieftrure will result. Tho
lrnpicsalon at the Capitol Is that an
army of at least 1'000 mert mhv
come from the Hay bill and tho Cham
beilatn liill In conference. The latter
proposes; an at my of 178,000. '
Unusual Debate.
Debate on the arni, bill In the
House took an unus'tal turn late yes
terday vfhen Mr." Kaliit brought Into
the chamber original poster"! HUi'h ax
arc Ijelntf used .In I'ngland to cn
couras iceruttlng.
ThYso poaieta weio obtained bv Mr
Kahn for uso during this particular
debate and they revenled to Houso
members for tho first tllnn the des-
perate efforts made to get recruits for
f D.ltnln
More than fifty of these large curd
board posters were placed against tho
wall In the Speaker's lobby or the
House. A few wcie brought In by Air.
Kahn In Illustration of the claim that
It Id difficult to .;et .'oluiitoors.
Most of the posters were works of
art, and proesnted tho strongest appeal
to tin patriotism of thn Englishman
who might read thorn.
A particularly eirnctlvo appeal was
that showing the plcturo of a woman, of
the typo of our Uoddcsa of Liberty,
sounding a buglo call. In tho bacK
ground was thn sea, and Into It there
wah rlowly disoppeailng the stricken
stoumahlp Lusltanla, Women and chil
dren struggled In the water.
"Take up the bword of Justice, ' waa
tho Inscription underneath
Another picture was that of a homo
with Its fireside wrecked by spell. Amid
the tumbling walls stood a little gin,
crying, with a doll In her arms. The
poster read:
"Men of Urltaln, Will You Stand ror
Thls7"
Question of Hats.
Photographs of a half dozen hats
ot the designs one may see In almost
any advertisement occupied the center
of another poster. With them there was
a soldier's cup, This question was
piloted below:
"Which Opgt You to Wear?"
Another striking sketch was that of a
company of Infuntry In battle array.
In thn center ot the line waa a vacant
spare, occupied by a little sign post,
which said:
"This Hpace Is Heserved for You;
Will You Fill It?"
"Is Your Home vx Defend It"
'1 his was the only nppenl on a largo
G.
1KI
HOW BRITISH POSTER
H
WIHRECRUITS
(Continued on Fourth rage.)
AMMUNITION
FIRST LIEUT. JOSEPH E. CAR-
BERRY, who is famous for his
"loop-the-loop" exploits.
Frederick Woman Clears Self of
All Bllm'e'forShdotinrj-With
Dramatic Story.
KHKDKIUCK. Md.. March l.-ln
Clear, distinct tones, her sentences only
occasionally . punctuated by sobs, airs.
Klolso Young Kngllsh told a coroner's
jurj a dramatic story that completely
cleared her of-blame for the Killing of
her husband, Arthur English, at-4hclr
hnmu-near hero yesterday.
lly use of altnoBt auperhuman will
poTicr she kept control of hcrselt
throughout the inquest last night and
told a clear, concise story, remembering
every detail.
iter face v. as drawn and white as
shu faced the Jury, her hands were
clinched convulsively, and the Up of one
of het feet kept up a, constant tattoo
nil tin court room floor, but she gave
a recital as dry and colorless as a legal
repbrt. , ,
"ATter- brcakfiist." she began, "about D
o'clock, I walked from tho ).oiih0 to the
yaid and explained to Mr English tbut
the bays bad pot been uell. I -isl-.ed
nim to let the .boys clean out the chick
en houselnstead of chopping. Then he
called me a r.iyHo. I went to the houso
and first went-to m room, where I
picked up a revolver htat was given me
when I was allttlo girl by my father.
From there I went to the kitchen, where
1 began waahlnn dishes.
"Arthur came In and went Into the
dinlng-rcom, where ho liegan to break
up tho dlshce. I told lilii I would pet
on my knees to him If he would s,top
bteaklng try C.Uhe. It was the last set
I had.
"I told him I would never nsraln In
terfere with him and tho children. Ho
said he would finish me end Keep the
boys working all day. Ha then reached
up to a cupboard, whore he always kept
a .ns-callbro tevolver.
"He ild: 'I don't want vou on your
knees (ciTsIng), I will kill you.
"Then I fire. I kept on firing, I was
so excited, until he revolver was empty.
He fell when I began 'firing, but I
picked up his revolver, which fell to
the table. I did not think he waa dead.
and I w afraid hft would kill me. I
Hhot to save my life. I really did not
ntend to kill him."
The coroner's Jury rendered mis ver
dict: "We find that Arthur TCnsllsh. In
Frederick county, was found dead, his
(Continued on Tenth Page.)
EXPECT 20,000 TO
ENLIST IN A WEEK
Chicago District Produces 3,280
Recruits in Three Days.
CHICAGO. March 1.-Un!ted. States
recruiting officers here predict that tho
Increase of 20,000 In the regular army
authorized by congress will be accom
plished within a week.
In three days recruiting In the Chi
cago district 3.2S0 men have been ac
cepted for the army.
Would Impose Tax on
Baltimore Bachelors
ANNAPOMS, Md., March lp.-Untll
Dclcgato McIntoBh (married) Introduced
tho bill drawn bv Solicitor McAllister
(married) to Impose an annual tax of
$2 on. llaltlmoro county bachelors, the
bach contingent didn't know what a
cheapskate Cupid was considered by the
Deneaicia.
The penalty for non-payment Is com
pulsory work upon the State roads.
S19.75 la Atlanta to Jackson
ville and roturn March Si. Special excur
sion. Southern Hallway. Consult agents,
Advr. - -
MRS. ENGLISH TEU5 S
(IFKIILINGHIMOMSTWIB
FIRST
LIEUT. HERBERT A.
DAGUE.
LOSING ITS SMASH
Stupendous Sweep of French
Artillery Makeslnfantry Ad
vance Impossible.
WILL CROWN PRINCE STOP?
LONDON. March 19. Tho German at
tack In the' vicinity of Vaux. on the
crdun sector, has failed o moke any
significant change In the situation on
that battle front.
An immense bombardment preceding
the 'attack was less effective than were
those at the beginning of the battle four
neekb ago, and the Hermann appear
to havo greatly dLmlnlshcd their supply
of heavy ammunition.
"TOe "Infantry forces launched against
the French position at nux were con
siderably smaller than ordinarily used In
movements of such magnitude, and Irv
stead of advancing In one solid body
they were divided into a scries of
smaller bpdles.
Meet Curtain of Fire.
At no point were the Ucimana able to
reach the French lines. Thoy met
o cry where the curtain ot machine gun
and artillery lire which has repeatedly
arrested their advances.
A particularly heavy artillery fire was
directed by the .Ceimans against tho
French postttlons In the Montzcvllle
Oois Bourrus region, and along the
entire fiont tho French guns were also
ncttve, preventing any forward move
ment by tho enemy except In the vi
cinity of Vaux.
In the Woevre the French were un
usually active. They blew up a mu
nitions depot In the Moranvlllo woods,
southeast of Dainloup. laiormatlon that
tho Gcimans woro bringing up heavy
rcc-cnforcements fiom the Kastem part
or the St. Jilhlol salient to tho Verdun
sector caused the French to keep up a
heavy bombardment of the road be
tween Apremont and Vlgneulles.
Mav Give 'Up Effort.
It Is believed by military observers
that the Germans must either make u.
desperate massed attack upon Verdun
or glvo up the effort to capture the
fortress. Thoy dcclaro that they are no
nearer to tho realization of their ob
jective than they wero when the cam
palgu tignlnst tho stronghold was
launched, as they have overcome only
comparatUely minor obstacles to their
advance upon Verdun.
It la the opinion of the experts that
the crown prince realizes that the cost
of tnklng of the fortress, even If It
might ultimately be accomplished, may
exceed tho value of success of the
enterprise.
uenerni uoig, Hrltish commander-in-chief,
leports artllletv exchamrea nt
Achlcourt. W'uUorghen the Hohen7ol-
lern reuouut, ypres, crenay, Wleltje,
and other points along the front, with
out Important results.
Russians Near Trebizond.
On tho Turkish Tront tho Russians ire
drawing nearer to Trebizond, the Turk
ish Black Sea port. Petrograd repot ta
that Ilusslnn forces urc within twenty
miles of the souport.
Austrian troops liae captured nn
Italian position north of tho Tolmlno
bridgehead, taking 449 prisoners, Includ
ing sixteen officers, three machine guns
and a mine thrower, the Vienna war of
fice announced.
On the lower Isonzo, the Italians at
tacked only near Sllz .with feeble forces,
sas the official statement. The cus
tomary artillery, mine, and hand gre
nade exrhanges occurred In this region.
Artillery tiling on both sides waa
ttl.al.Arl la , I. u autllnna rf 141 ..I l.rt
Ir'....rU III IM13 C.E...UIIC Ul J. IF, ..'.
Mltsch, and Fella, Moderate artlllen
duels occurred on Munte, Piano, Coldl
Una, and near Rlva.
HEADWF
FLYING COLUMN NOW
IN HEART OF BANDIT
CHIEFTAIN'S COUNTRY
t
U. S. Forces Divided Into Three .Cojuwos
to Expedite Chase; Army Men Fear
Outlaw May Rally Strong; FoHoying to
His Banner in Guerrero Region ' -
EL PASO, March lDivide'd now into 'three col
umns, General Pershing's Mexican expedition' is pushing
forward at break-neck speed in an, effort to capture Villa
before he can reach his store of military supplies at Numi
c.uipa. ' .4
The Guerrero district, where Numiquipa islocated, is
known to be strongly sympathetic with Villa -and it is
feared that he could gather a strong following there and
arm them if allowed orily a few days.
At last reports the bandit chieftain, was heading, south
for Numiquipa at San Geronmino, .in Chihuahua, with 80Qt
men. He was moving so rapidly that his wagn train had
practically been, abandoned. - .? .:..' .. ', "it ".-' '
Army officers dq nojentertaih'tjie EtSiitthtife
expedition will catch up with Villa'before- he reaches his
goal, but Coldnef Dddclwith hisilytog column, ttHticiut
l.Soo.picke dingers' from the Seyeiith and Tenth Guv
alry, is literally oif his heels. '
The flying column hardly paused after its record
breaking dash to Colonia Dublan and had'reached'Cblonia
Juarez, eighteen miles to the south, last night.
Now, it is believed, it is.atleas fifty miles south of
Dublan, in the very heart of the Galeana district, where it
may be attacked at .any moment by hostile bands. '
IN HOSTILE COUNTRY NOW.
Pershing's two other columns are pushing-forward
as rapidly as possible, to be "ready to rush to Dodds' aid
if he meets a superior force.
Reliable information declares that it is Villa's "great
scheme," after securing his treasure trove of ammunition,
to reach Chihuahua and Torreon, Govering-as nluch coun
try and touching a's many towns as possible wjth his scat
tered forces, to arouse a great conflagration of resentment
againt the Americans.
Private information-from Torreon, -where1 two fights
between rebellious soldiers shouting "Viva Villa" and a
few loyal Carranzistas took place Saturday, states that
Villa's friends, are rallying and awaiting his arrival from
the north.-
The country which Vjlla is entering, the Guerrero dis
trict, is his especial stronghold. It is believed he may-at-;empt
to give strong resistance in these, mountafns, with
newly collected troops, while he goes on-southward in the
interests of his cause.
TENSION IS GROWING.
A tension at headquarter in Ban Aa
tonlo resulting, from statements ot the
Carranza general, Gavtra, that the
American soldiers would not be permit
ted In any towns, was wholly, relaxed
today because of direct Information
that Dodd and Pershing had not been
ounosed when passing through Casas
Grandes or the Mormon colonies.
Carrnnzlstaa are reported to be hold
ing many passes against Villa on his
.southerly progress, and it is expected
that these forces of the first chief soon
will be put to the test In the matter of
their roal atlliuae lowaiu wie, yrorcm-u
of Americans on their soil, Mett of tho
Mormon colonies. It Is asserted, havo
i, nn t-nnriipr! nnd reDorted safe by the
commanding officers. ... .
Headquarters at !an aihouio rcpon
that more cavalry has reached Colum
bus, H. M. HUB connsis ui lira iiib-j-
rons, nbout MO men of the Twelfth Cav
alry, under Col. Horatio G. Blckel.
A sqvadion, about 275 men, of the
Thirteenth Cavalry, which lias been on,
duly In tho Big Bend country ot Toxaa,
haa been ordered to Columbus ixlno.
These troops, It Is aald at headquarters,
will bo used for a bonier war patrol In
the vicinity of Columbus.
Villa was reported at Cruces last
night, at the head of the Uabluoia
trail, which leads Into and through
the Continental Divide, across t"ic
Htarst Ilablcora ranch, to Modern.
With tho Seventh and Tenth cavalry
ttglmenta under command of Col.
Ceorse A. Uodd reported to be "some
where south of Casai Grandes. ' and
on forced march la pursuit if Villa aaJ
Sunday Evening
Womcm . ;
tXtC 'OKJD.ClCiTT.
i ,n 1 1 ', if i ,ii
his raiders, the questlbn of getting on
visions to the "(living squadron", from
border points Is now occupying .the,at
Untlon of the army. ' .
The, cavalry la moving, rlly
southward that It la alrficut ropoa
Mbhj at this time .to contlno uvrVYoy
Inr foodstuff by autcntobltd trvJTs
Tlia column U moving as. t n, n
automobile. truck can proceed tU-utl
that country nnd with tnr ..
UPilfe.H at Columbus present indica
tions are that tho railroad lines will
have to be used to ettnd supplies,
, It Is thought probahle the United
b'tatea Qqvernmont will ak permlsr
slon from uencral Carranza to ullow
provisions and supplies to be sent to
the front over the I tins ct the Mexico
Northwestern out of Juarez.
in event this permission Is granted
trains can be rushed to Casnn Grand.!
and other points In that soctlon for tha
cavalry. Jlemounts can bo furnished
Colonel Dodd. to contlnua hta hunt for
tho bandit bond. j
Brlftfc tittraeeV? Olit,.
There la a, 't'6n' brldre "burned out
near Corralltos,.attd It will be necessaty
to repair1 thls.'berdre the,' Mexico. Noith
western . ttalns can1 b .dispatched to
Cataa Grandes, If supplies from the
Kast ordered by- the1 railroad company
arrive within ,a tow day tho bridge cna
be rebuilt wjthln two "necks, or Irs.
Villa destroyed, this bridge on hh flight
southward following the Columbus raid.
.Whether Carranza will object to tho
American Government using the Mcxlrc
railroad at tali Uaaa, It &at kaowm. la
CACHE
