.... vjM,maimgmB u m, m iji m,.jL i.iiwiwiiwiww wm
JfcAsJ
THE WEATHER FORECAST. '
Partly cloudy to-day and to-morrow',1
moderate shifting winds.
Highett temperature yesterday, 77i lowest, $4l
Detailed wenthw, mail I'm! marine reports on pa lit
IT SHINES FOP ALL
PRICE TWO CENTS.
VOL LXXX1II. NQ. 272.
NEW YORK, MONDAY, MAY 29, 1916. Copyright, 1916, by the Sun PrMino '- VuWishing Association,
Suit
BAGKERSCOUNT
STATE'S VOTES
F0RR0OSEVELT
HILLES PREDICTS A SPLIT
IF T. R. IS RUBBED WRONG
Sine of Hoot ami Hughes
Delegates A ft or First
Ballots.
Chairman Believes Roosevelt Will Support a "Square"
Nominee and Platform, Even if the Colonel
Is Not the Candidate.
TRAIN HITS AUTO; 3 'GREECE PERMITS
DEAD, WOMAN HURT , BULGAR INVASION
WORLD ALLIANCE PLAN W LSON PEACE
WELCOMED IN LONDON
Accident Occurs nt (J rude
Crossing1 on the Kric nt Sin
rac, Near Patcrson.
Counts to occupation of ! "Daily News" Says Principle Enunciated by Wilson HRR M A N PR A ICR
Demir IlisMir and Three
Forts Near Town.
wu.Mv activi:ly to
l.NCIIKASK STKKXtiTll
Ui'inorrats Kxpeel
Harmony in Con volition
Thau liopulilicaiis.
1 i1 l;oo.-evclt Republican Committee
In ii st.i.cinoitt yesterelay said It had
ittrived i tMH t frum sixloeti nf the
twin up-State Congies. dlsttiets
now.n. vvhal tilt' Roosevelt vvorkcts
it t il as ,i Kt-o Iiik sentiment uinoiig
Hi. p !; for tin- tinmliiatlnii nt Uul.
Ros-tn r in the Chicago convention, i
T1V committee- Is convinced that many
Jtuot anil Hughes, tk-losntc tn the rim- .
Hii.ion will vote for Roosevelt after
the Ori-t '.lliotlllK.
I'ol. Roosevelt left yesterday for
CI' .1.1' lie will speak at Kansas
i , 11 mil St. Louis on prepared j
mm and AiiieticuiiLsiii. i
lii'ident WilAin's speech on the
qui Minn of peace lu brought forth
tt. rm .minrsetiients from Uei-mtin
quartcs It Is understood that tho
text of the addle.. has been sent by.
r il.o tli rhti.
A st I'eincnt issued by the heaibtiar
P . ( ,i. Democratic National Com
tmtt't .n Washington dollar, h tliat the
St. l.' iuN eotiventkm will be liaininni
0'i i ml .n marked contrast to the l!e-
. . ! ' all
ST AT WIDE STRUGGLE j
.VOir FOR ROOSEVELT
Cino.vun, Mi) .V AtcoidlhR to tlid
forecast of National Chairman llUles,
these are the four big planks the Re
publican caipcntcis will put together In
the platfoini to be constructed In the
Coliseum ne.l neck:
1 Adequate national defence.
" l'i evident Wilson's shortcomings
:i N iti-f.i r t Isati, sclcnlltlo latin"
commission,
I I Merchant marine.
Oil tliln plntfortn aint with a oalidl
JIol'O' ''',t,; ,vn" 1)0 honestly In nevoid with
It the Republican chiefs believe they
. Ill satisfy tlie Progressive and par
ticularly Cot. I'.oosevelt, eeu If the
nominee be son..; other man than the
Colonel.
Mr. llllle.i, who thawed out to.ilay,
discussed the conventlon'tloni scM'tnl
anales, exireited Ills views on Col.
ltuosevelt and the latforiu and went
far as to prophesy another split
Ijifrli t tiiii r Thunder Be
lieved to Have Kept. Driver
From Itealizint-' Danger.
Lr.in l, Iti'uun In ('nut I Kelr
uiile I lini l iiliinel WnnlPil.
"in- !!niiicc'! Keimlitiiau 'oinniltlee
b' i t iat a sre.it many of the dele- '
fi. lli' Kipul'ii, tn lifitloii.il iollell .
tl'ii w ;l be for Col. noicelt after their
I'blicnt.oi.s arc paid to Lllliti Hoot and I
Ju.'iln IIurIht. The eominlltee has j
b.rii aifiitnu'il by tcUsriiins from local
.Omni tuc throilKhout tin- State of tins'
Ifivinr sentiment anions; Kcpuliltcans
in faur of the nomination of Theodore
;).. ii
I I'n lat few days the cninmittce
h.'. cuncfiiti.-itiil ltR iflnrtH on the up
Sla't 1 oii;reMliin.ll districts. Tlie le-
1 1
in tne ji.irty, or nt least a rroKie.sslve
, defection attain, If the couvp ntloii did
not tuensnre up to the forward lookliiE
Ide.iM of tlie American people. That
the convention would measure up to this
1 standard was hie linn belief,
t "I nni not In Mr. Itoocvclt's eon
' tldence." said Mr. Illlles. but looking
nt the situation its any man mlKht
who wants to see the best thhiK done
1 should r.iy that Col. Itoosevelt can
support tlie Republican ticket thin fall,
even should he not be nominated, If (
tlie ticket and the platfoini ate on the,
siiuare. I think they will be. j
Sincerity In tleiiiiiiulr il.
"If the Republicans put foith a plat
form that Is not bunk but a sinccm
decimation of principles and nominate
candidate for President who. the peo
ple bellexe, will adhere slnctrely to the
platfoini ;tii! Is equal to the task of
lllne up to the ila. form. I do not
believe Col. Koosevelt will lead u third
party nioement this year.
"Ha the other hand, If the platform
is a hunk platform, which no well In
formed man anticipates, and If Col.
lioosewlt had icason to feel lilmr.elf ami
hl pilnoiples outraged lie mlKht run
a;;n'i on . third ticket. In that event
the r.fptihllcanf"woiild hae a hard time
defeatiHK Mr. Wilson.
"Mut I don't look for that develop,
meiit. I am basing my opinion on the
"tateiuei i Issued by the I'loKroylve Na
tional Committee at its meeting here In
Chicago. I itiinerstaiid Mr, Perkins die CHASH
tuted that statement himself.
"In that staleinciit the Piogresslve
party aliiiouiiced that It wan ready to
join hands with the Republican", pro
lded the main principled for which the
Piogtcsslves have contended are set
foith hi tlie Republican platfoun and
provided timber that 'he nominee of the
Republican "otiveiitlon measures up to
that ptotioiineeiuent. It will be recalled
that tlie Peiklns statement speeltlcally .
said It did not necessarily mean that Patk.ison. .V J.. May .V-Two ,nen
the Republicans would havo to nominate I and one woman were killed and a woman
Col. Roosevelt. ( was seriously Injured to-night when an
.automobile In which they wile rldlnc
Uon't Predict M....l..ee. Uy lMMl)mlllll
'As to wi.o will lie nominated no one wn tral1 n . vll.ri.,,0d t.ke
can even guiss at this time. 1 believe' ,
the ItKiUblhan convention this )ei,r will , b"ncl' ie llrie railroad a tlie Main
l eoniiiosed of deleu-ates who Hre In-I street glade cio-slng al Mllgic, live
li'petnlent in their thlnkliw and vvlio will miles from this city,
deliberate wihetly and serlousl) on the, .r.ie ;(rp iMwatd I ijv enpoit, I'J.
national situath.u I dont imtiK it win , Kr.1lkln v ... Is,lil0 rt.i,blooin. 3.
in- t "ii (. 1 1 1 it ' 1 1 int. i ni iin-mii
DI'ttlNO STtHJMi 2.i,0(m CUOSS KIIONTIKIl.
Cannot Fail of Acceptance by Entente "At
One With Sir Edward Grey."
Allies Are In Conned Athens
(ioveriinieiK Made Similar
Concession to Them.
'deliverable' In the sense that word Is
Used.
"I make no coinp.it isons with other
conventions n ml do not mean to make
any Insinuations, hut the whole national
situation lids cnr is such that the Re
publican delegates will think very care
fully and soberly mid even prayerfully
hefoio they lommlt tlie patty on these
vital issues.
"McKlnley, in one of his great cam
paigns, said that 'whatever may have
been the situation before, this was a
ear In which business was politics and
politics was business.'
"We cm paraphrase that a little and
say now, on the eve of the opening of
the Republican national convention, that
whatever may have been the situation
lietetofore this Is a year and a time
when politics Is patriotism and patriot
Ism Is politics.
"I don't think wc need have any fear
as to what the convention will do, both
as to tlie platform and the candidate."
Mr liilbs announced to-day the ap
pointment of l-'rank A. Smith. Pennsyl
vania, n chief aolstah' secretary of the
convention, iither assistant secretaries'
will be Thomas Williamson, Illinois;'
Charles. V. Rawson, Iowa. W. II. Top-1
Plug. Now Hampshire, Roy M, Watklns, '
Michigan. I'hiI llanes, Indiana, Kr-'
nest l. ltildwin, Oregon, Frank A.1
Il.izeloakei', Montana, C. M. llarger,
Kansas, l-Vatik II. Smith, New Jersey;
.1. L. Phillips. District of Columbia; R.
.1. Hcamlsh. Pennsylvania, and Joseph
McCoy, .It., Mlifourl.
untdcutlllcd
.", .Mill 8 old,
h'-erilxd as
is old. She
N. .1. . Isaac
clothier, llambiiic, N. J.
woman, apparciitiv uhoiit
The tnjuied woman Is
Miss Alva Anderson, '.'."i )f
Is in the Mountainside I lil.-pltat. Mont
elalr, suffirlng Iroin a fr.ictuied left leg,
numerous cuts and bruises and possibly
Internal Injuries.
Miss Anderson's condition was such
that the hospital doctors lefused to per
mit anybody to ask her questions con
cerning the accident.
The car was ownid b Davenport, who
was utlvlng.
Knglneer Pciitleld of the passenger
train said It was raining haid, with lii
nt iluihi's of llghllilng. attend. d b.v
heavy thundir daps, as h" approarhed
Main street. Tlie aiitoinolilli', going .u
.,. fust elm. ran out of tlie d
1..,. II,.. trliil,. of th
locomotive lea, hed the cro-siitg. 1 lie I
ttaln was going .iIhiui tlilrt.v miles .-u
hour and the autonion.le was ilemolished.
The four passengers sv.ie hulled out of
the wteckage and a part of ! mtichln
was carried down the tnuk on the cow
catcher.
' itl 1 tttt'r Ilt&pilU ii fn 1 ll K Sl
l.o.'.'tios , .May I'S,. , Hulgaiiati Inva
sion of (Srccie, wad h It lias often been
slated would so Inilaine the Hellenic
nation that the hitter's intry Into tlie
war would become Inevitable, has taken
place with the loimcnt of the Uieek (lov
eminent. Ill giving tins lotiiiit a, id epl, lining
II to the diplomats at Athena King Con
stant I ne'. Covet lltliellt stilled tll.lt tio
other course was left open to titeeie,
after "lie hud mad'- siinillar concessions
to the Ihilente Powers In the nast.
"tlitec" has no option to act otherwise,"
a id wt: statesman is limited n sajlng,
i NPlaluuig the consent to tlie llulgarlau
Invasion
The icttial eroislni; of the frontier oc-
"I", ed on May 2.", ilast Thursday) or
Mnv near i'einlr 111 :ir. via Rupell
Pas. The Invaders, about I.'-.Od't strong,
occupied Deiini' Hlss.ii station ami
brnUe and alo Ports ltupll, Dragotlna
and Spalovo. It s stated that they are
miiii'liiiic toward Kavala.
The tollowiug otllcirtl statement was
bMid at Sotia to-night:
We occupied the southern elt of
Rupel Pass and the heights cast of the
Struma.
A despatih from Athens to-night
slates that another Serbian iiiiitliigcnt
lias heen landed at Salonlca.
Iloluors I, eil h
uuii ith.'e ii-,af , to Tut: Sin.
I.o.Mion. May 'J9.- The DnilU .Vetts,
j coiiuiK tiling t'ioii Piesldetit Wilson's
1 s)eecli on piace Saturdav, sa.vs:
j "President Wilson lint never delivered
a Nprncll more ptegualit of possibilities,
j Nothing is as ilear as liuit on the tuiida
'mental Issues, whkli i;o far beyond tho
'settlement that will let initiate the present
war, I'lctldent Wilon and Mr f.uwaru
tiley ale at one.
"The Prisldent IiiiiIi'h his hope for the
tiltute Om the ItiMiitillou of a woild
Irlliuiial to (.ouiposc the dlft'cieucia of the
natloiiM on pilticiplco which, as fat as
this country Is loticenud. vvinild (with a
possible leservallon In tavor of eleater
oiiiultliiii of lb" lefe.eiice to the stcurlty
of tlie n'.i.O tecelve Ulavcrsil acceptance.
"Hi argument Is eliuo-t bbntical wltii
Sir Ldw.inl iiiej s recent utterance on
the identity of puiposc between Ureat
1,1 Haiti alul An, ei lea in the . oncrete alms
lor tilt 1 1 i.i 1 1 1 1 nance o: the ,,e.ne of tile
world.
"I'li'sidelit W.bon spie n contain an
ekiiiiiit ot cialbuge t'aat brines I'topia
In lehitiuti wit'a t'n actual Ills Ideals
will In: iinlK sltatlngl.v indolsed by the
Lntcnte Poweis, It Is not easy to see
Low tin) can be icplldlateil by tlie
'teuton!,' Pom-. His pron.als are not
desluned to end this war, but they are
ildi In hop, foi av ei ting man.v thicatchcd
wats of tile tutiiic."
President (Jets Many Tele
grams of Coiiiirat illations
on His Stand.
HADIO TO DEKLIX
guilt was overshadowed Uy the. military i
triumph of the guilty party. I
"It would lie an Incalculable dhastcr
to civilization were this experience re
peated, as It would be If peace woie cjli-
cltided with an undefeated Herniary.
Ametle.t must recognize, and wo believe
that an , verg, owing " I A DDJl'ESS SKXT liV
oo, llliil ,io;illinK toe ,'ii,..i iji.m
to help iti such a result would In no
distant future recoil with fatal effect on
their ow n heads."
The Ititlly Vhrunlitr fprcscs some
surprise that the. "Inviolability ot the
se.i Is put before even tlie Inviolability It Js i iri l'llcil (if Iin'llOSt
of an Innocent nation's territory against " "
such Invasion us that of llelfcium" and
udds :
"lint It has to be lemcmlieKd that
the Culled Slates has no land fmntler
with anv I'owers but ourselves and
nearly all Its connections with the ou'el
world are transoceanic."
BIDS WILSON GO SLOWLY,
Hall;
s-necrs.
tiermnns.
'I'll. llllll II V, , W M
tknoss tlglit i .,,.1,n"1,.ilr ti,
iie.oiio,iu -" tnoi or Rune 11. savs:
tlie ciossiiig I lie i "(, ai led tiu.'i.s are thet-. The Creek
ilsnit thirty miles .-u -..,,,. nf ,,r for, hl.h is n.iit of the
Athens correspond
Bulgarian occupa
RICH WIDOW'S FUNERAL FERRY AND CRIPPLED
HELD UP FOR AUTOPSY DIRIGIBLE COLLIDE
Ill-others of Mrs. Mar M. Kad
lein Cause Action to He
Taken by Coroner.
Air.xhip Falls Into Hudson in
Fliirlit From .lerse.v
Faces (irave Peril.
s cniita.n. d In the following state
ment .
i ett,iordlnaiy
amount of sentl-
The funeral
adlcln, who
of Mis,
lied at
place Saturday, will not
o'clock this morning, as
Maty Mullen"
.'3!M Lorlllaid
be laid at 10
al ranged, be-
tr.Hit among Republicans Itl New' York
Sl 'O t,'i' Tie lioin'inatlo.i of Tbeodoie
limy v.P by the Republican national ! cause of the objections of her brothers
i can, ,l,,ll
II ' go
I: ' i , . n
i " ui -Mate Congressional districts.
T e ,i c iwinty of these and In sixteen
' ' "ininittci'S of Republicans who
k I'," d Ta It four years ago have been
I'd i7.eii i.i vvotk for tlie nomination of
Uii'M Vett this year In' the four
I i g districts organizations will bo
P d in the net few days.
old's I'l'tltlonliiu 1)1 leuHtes,
' ii'Unct ( oiiimlttees ate otgan-
A ditisible airship narrowly missed
being crushed by a ferryboat at the
Kdgewater feiry slip yeslenlay after-
I noon As It was, t rank fioodale, the
dirigible pilot, got two iluckltigs In the
been .,v..e.l l.v II... I.nf I , -.- I. 1.1 i W.HCIS Ol 1 III IIUIISOII.
' ' ' "' ""-' .III IOCS .OUIU'II- Ol tl lltllli, MM '"MlU't .... . , , , . .
oniliiclc.l by the Roosevelt' , ,. .. ,,,m.m titn. "! Condnle started early In the afternoon
com.nitt.e.- The committee , ''r " and William Mullens, .1 I ....... , ,.. ,,ark tn
pay.ng varticular attention to Ha.vard siieet. .New Rochelle. , ,,llrll1. .
The brothers went to Coroner Jerome
, , . way :kioss the ilver to Harlem.
Ilealy yesterday and said they believed ., ,... to,,.d runnlne because
the circumstance!, of their sister's death the vibration had shut off the flow
would warrant the holdhig nf an an-I"' gasolene to the carhureter. Oooil-
, , , ,, ale let gas out of the bag to make
topsy. Later they made an allldav it i f;1 , ,,),,. ,h, water and threw
to this effect In the presence of Di,-. ' llnr. MUft ut lMUW
trlct Attorney Martin of Die Hronx. and )mr, ,.,, )(t HUhm(.rBC, for a
Coroner's Physician Rlfgelnian will con- 1 1..
duct an autopsy this niotnlng. i'no ditigiblc dufleil in toward the
Mrs. Radleln, who was .":i yeais old i:,iew-iter ferry slip, and though a score
and a widow, Inherited $-1,011') from her 0r pieasuiv boats went to help him none
mother, who died a few years a;o. Her picked up the trailing ropes to tow him
father, now dead, was a ship chandler. )r ,,f,.t.v Just as the airship reached
.Mrs. Radleln had been estranged from 1 ,,P ,., ,,r t. ,cr the ferryboat Kdge
her brothers and left her estate to Die w,,tcr htaded in, and it seemed to the
child of a niece. Mrs. Lottie Collier excited ferryboat passengers that a col
Zeno, who with her husband, Robert Usjon could not be avoided,
Zetio, a clerk In the employ of the T(. f,,rry shut orr steam and re-
American Hank Note Compai.y. lived versed engines, liven then the dirigible
with liei. struck the Imat hard enough to swing
Dr. M. K. Ilucll, .117 Last lOStli street. t arounil The airship was again
said last night that .Mis. Radleln bad plunged into the water. Finally the
been 111 for tluee months and had shown dirigible was viwed to the Warner
symptoms of cirrhosis of the' Ilvet. .M-j Sugar Ibilneiy dock, where twenty men
though he was certain death was frutn I nrti-d It from the river,
natural causer, he had dilayed slunlng i Though wet from his two ducking,
a death certlllcate until Hie brothers, ns ,j,,0.ir readjusted the ballast, wiped
the nearest relatives or the wo'can. 1 1, w-.,ter fiom the magneto and re
could be notilled, "ii the stieiigtli f turntil to Ills hangar after forty-live
minutes absence, lie says he will sail
k no el, ngs 111 Col. Roosevelt's favor
' indiRting canvasses of en-
liepuhli -au voters. Petitions signed
k) 'i publican voters are being clrcu-
I oioughojt the State calllne on
I i' it ct delegates to recognize the
" g Roosevelt sentiment. There ure
' it ii'tloiis 111 tile State where the
II v Ii sentiment is eniecially strong
1 !, the attitude of the Republi
' i ins. ,t Is contlilenlly believed, will
li 'v lelernilning ilfect on the ote
leleg.iteb.
"' e oiinty, which coinprises three
' - 1 districts, tlie Roosevelt
is are well oiganlzed under
t if sonic of the most pioinlnf nt
' In' party. In several of the
I "i. y Assembly districts As-
'' i Itstrtct organizations have also
I"' f lined.
"tin' district In which the Roose
V' ' ii niii'iit Is stioug Is .Slonroe
-a winch Is located tlie city of
Ii". In , i A strong committee of busl
i d professional men has charge
nf iiniialgi lliere, Meetings will
i I.i 1) luring the next week and
- 'i.t'.j i.epiihllcans enrolled as possl
"' ' i Mus pait of the State also thero
ve local committees at work In
i ' V and Canaitdalgua.
1 of tint stiongest and miit active
'' P Ri publican organizations In
. a n is that which was recently
" -1 zed lii Syracuse. Many of the
I' '1 g business mid professional men
' "y aie giving time and money
'itibiilldlng of the loal organlia-
i o .started In last week with
. ji'in-iit of heveral hundttd.
Mionu In Western Counties,
i e western lountlts of the State
P I! .o-evet sentiment has always been
' . .nni It has not been dlllicult
' ' is instance) to arouse It to action.
1 veir the Roosevelt sentiment In
1 Hii.ni'iua county Is demonstrating It
i new within the ranks of the Re
, ,io party, and It Is predicted
1 Hie convention delegates from
' 'l.stilct will hear an unmistakable
i d befoin tho convention meets
"' 'he noithern counties of the State,
" niive always been strong Roose.
enltory, the Roosevelt Republl
' re coniluctliiK a systematic can-
with striking success. In some
'I 'Hi's, It has been estimated that at
I' . i- a per cent, of the enrolled Repuh
1 favor Col. Roosevelt's nomination.
!' i" us from tho Mohawk Valley
" ten, Including Oneida, Montgomery
1 lleiMtner, Indicate that Roosevelt
"Ml, in an committees are meeting with
p Mil-cos In their work,
i Trov, Ro isevelt leads all Republl
'iidiilates for the nomination, Tlie
true of the fllens Falls section,
' i: ,M. Angell, Inaillng delegate to
' isi.tullonal Convention, Ik con
'i i he pro-Roosevelt nioveinetit.
' . u the local oiganlzatlotiK are do
ii . . ie.it work tlnoughout the Slate,
mii..i,i out on tlie alrl'tak" and t n
train stopped so suddenly mat the p-is-sengers
reatUed something senous bad
happened. They now.bd onto the p a -forms
and then (autmusly winked their
way along the Hack-. Many weie sick
ened by the sight of the maimed bodies,
hut most of them workul with a will In
picking up the dead and Hying t I- ve
tii-tt aid to the injnied woman
Somebody telephoned to Di l.dwaid I.
Ives of Little Falls, the iieanst il.e'toi.
and the physician liuirbd to Miigac in
bin car. When be got tarn, how eve! .
the train bad provided on ,ts way. Miss ,
Anderson havliw been placed on board.
The dead, however, were '..ft at the side
of the Hack.
It was explained tn.il the l ain ilnln t
wait long at the criming because of the
necessity of ettlng Miss Andeisoii to a
hospital. Stie was tak.n to Moiitcl.tir.
where she was lemoved to ite .Misintaiu
shle Hosidtal in an unbi.lat'cc
Dr. lvih found a sliockid gioup of
Slngae people at the 'i"i; The
wreckage ol the aiitomobib was stnwit
..Immi- the trni'ks and nobody i oiild tell
blm exactly how the a "hi' nt had oc-
curted.
The opinion w ,is expi -.,,! bv wonil
that the dllver of tlie i.ir had If n
blinded by a Hash of libtiili g and drove
onto the crossing without stopping to
listen, not realizing lie was o mar tlie
tallroad otheia biia'ved that thutid i
c!.ii may have prev tilled blm fiom hear,
lug tlie locomotive Wiil-th. blown .is the
train was seviral Inuidied fiet fiom tlie
crossing.
Dr Ives notilled l'r Wil'ain Mi A IPs -ter
of Patirson, .oimg i.'intv pltvslci.iu
of P,i-sac county, and he went to Slugac
to make a (list hand Inv.eUgntiosi Toe
crossing. It is said, was not ptoteiteil by
i;atis and tbcie was no watihnnn n
KUaid,
At a late hour to-night .Mis- Aideisott
was able to aimvver itueitlojis. but she
couldn't throw' any light on the ,o -cident.
She wild she "loiildn't n mem
ber" what took jdate. She knew tin'
automobile was limning tliiougli tlie
darkness and thui came tin erash.
She said she couldn't ncall the names
of the men who wite in the cat, and
added that t-he remembered liei woman
companion'!-: name was Annie. Miss An
derson gave her own home, addiess as
M Htidge meet. Patersop,
oig.itued dt fences of Dernlr H,sal',
Iliii'l twenty-s shots against the In
aders '
"Cons. drralde doubt existed at Athftn
for tvventv .four itours whether the ad
vance was in.olo to tlie ib-imans or
Hillgarlaiis There was ,i delre to
1 1 cud the Invasion as being under
taken by Hie Hermans, but I have the
best authority for saying that the in
vaders ate lliilgaiiaus ltd by Herman
Otlll ers
"The latter explained that they bad
definite itistiuctlons to occupy the fort
in onh t to pi oti ; the
against , an attack by
UieeU eanisno was given two hours to
evacuate, will, h they did after receiving
Instructions from Alliens
"The ntllcers. taking possession of tli'
fort. siKiied a iloninieiit pionilsng to re
turn the fort to the Creeks as soon as
the military necessity of holding It has j
l eased. They also pionilsed to Indent- I
mfj i Irene foi any damage done by the
occupation I
".My Infi imation is, th.r Hie Hulgars
have been pract'ea ly abandoned by the
Austraius and Hetni.n.s in the Halkan
war area and were i onseipiently forced
to i"l,e nie.iMiies which they rigaul as
nee -ary against an advatiie by the'
Alio. The paper here declate that the '
Mulg.ir adva:e is a violation of the ar- ,
rangimeiits toiiieinlng a n, ill nil zone."'
Vthetis despatiiics say that after a
bmg cniifeti in .ittetidid by Premier
Ski'iibnidis. Hie Minister of War and
the members of tn, iPneral Staff, the
olh. nils aimotniceil that the Homtii
ine'it ha'- (oiiseiuin to the occupation;
, of Rupell by a (ict ni.in-llillgal Ian ton e j
' in eonsi'b I'.tiloa of the iomesion made
to the Luteiite Powcis and of the wish !
of ihe Hovel lunetit to maintain strict
uputral'tv i
It was . toted that another announce
mrnt will follow explaining that the,
g.ving of tireeces KUiseut regarding i
Rii'irll was ill'av olelable beciuse the
ileiin.ins thre'iteiii'd to us,, fone and a
refusal would have involved Hreece in
hostll ties.
V despatch fiom Salouba says tliat t
au liiipoilint invasion of Creek Mine-
Intra is iiidieated by th" llulgarlau ;
seizin- of Rupell and lullvlty on the:
Mesta River near Nanthl, The P.ul- I
gatlatis notilled tlie Uriel; commander J
of Rupell on May : that the position
was Indispensable to the llulgarlau de
fence, and therefore the Creek garrison
must leave The nimmainicr was as
siiied tliat the occupation would be in
.iivotdaiuc with Ureeci's policy ot neti-tiality.
Il Itres
The (!) .j )n n omiiiciits slight
iiixly oi Ha' "I'ciih. cliar.ietcrizltn: the
Picsident as- ",i well in lining college
piofcssor with a ticii sense of Justice."
ii ihlcrl.il ,h. Is :
"While the other gteat w oi Id deinac
tacies .re siteiidlug llu.r Ireaitiie and
tlie lives of their bravest sons in light
ing against Uermany, the I'ulted Stati
icin.ilns olitsme the
Ituslue s Wc do jiul
It nni t, however, b ilear to her
that the tellius of filtill. eace will be a
matt.'t lor the A!!ie As far .is they
ale con, rued, tin present peace talk
ii. premature and lul-chlexous. No sat
Isfactoiy in, Is p,rslb)e until Uermany
his suffered a decisive miliary defeat."
The Ihlilsl Cllolf(e says'
"The most Important obje, ts for which
tlie Allies have been lighting would be
lost If any peace weie made at this
stage, for no matter what Its terms it
would be tti, peace of a victorious Uer
many and would enter with fatal ptes
llge the aggressions anil crimes of which
llulgar b-ft wing i tieiniany has been guilty.
tie Allies. The " I'he whole pohcy of which till
lieiiieiieeiiii ( alls I'reshlenl Kill
ner's l.oiiiplalsiiiil Listener.
li'tvtl ilbtr tlftlnltc'l to'XWK SlS
P.MUS, May L'S. Uiorges Cltnieliceati,
in nti editorial heaeled "Urrnrs In Optics."
argues in connection with tlie C.etuiati
peace verbosity and the violent attacks
on Vtrdun, In tho Uttir ot which, he
says, the cost of llfo Is out of proportion
to any possible tesult obtainable. He
adds that "It Is easily seen that Verdun
Is. the enemy's last effort, his lust hopi,"
and lotitlnuco
"If a ttliimpliant entry by some mi
riosslbilltv could be mailo in the battered
remnants of Verdun tho Wolff Agency i night
Fin port a nee in Oerman
Quarters.
I'.NTKXTK E31 H ASSIES '
AIM! MOKK KKSKKVEI)
Predict imi Is 3Iade That It
Will Not Interrupt
Allies' Plans.
W.vslii.vriTov, May 2. President Wll.
son lias already teielved a Hood of tele
grams ftoni vatious pan of the country'
longtatiilating him on his address last
befote the League to lCnforcH
Mould alinounce
and Chancellor
would proclaim
inanity Inclined
"The Kaisi't'u
It as the 'Hn.il victory'1 Peace.
von Iletlimann-Hollwig '
that magnanimous hu
hlin lo peace protocols.
childlike diplomacy has
ring. It is hr ' loium a rompiaisaiit listener in rre.
ilthi'se hei policy dent Wilson while the latter 1 occupy
iiik in' i I e's ini'ncy -oi, i iisuu it Lin
, didate for reelection. His mediation. If
, Kurnpe accepted It. would be tho only
title he needs, but it is dlllicult to eon
fir upon luni such a title, for the single
reason that with the. Ingenuousness
' which honors him and with the hope,
perhaps fotelgn to our laud, he publicly
I proclaimed Ills offer of Intervention,
i "Thus, as any man of common sense
' would have foretold, his proposition Is
received with courteous roolluss. ,s
he filt the net d of explanation of his
miscalculation, for which, like the ma
jority of the pesiple. he I unwilling to
! blame himself, he found It simpler to
condemn us as mad. There may be
war
Is the I'ooisttous ..mi nine hn been tuide I madness somewriere in this connection,
possible by tho fact that In 1 xtit, lyfifil "Kvent will show, clier Monsieur le
and ISiTo Prussia s deliberately planned President ! Do not rush your Judg
aggressions had iimpr 'idled suioss and , ment !"
J. J. HILL SINKING; .JOHN D.JR.'S TALK
FEAR END IS NEAR IS HALTED BY STORM
'ails to Kall.t After Operation
and Doctors Sec Dan
gerous Omen.
1. teh Is Fail as He Starts mi
"Prodteal Son" Sermon at
I'ocantico Hills.
III.- suggestion of a woild peats alli
um e after the wai. with the I lilted
Stale as paitm r, has stiui i a retpon
slve chin d In many of the pem organi
zations Hopi' ! entertained in sum
e Hi v 1 1 i iliat tho address may lead to
some ihllnlle pioposal to bung the war
to au end.
Th"ie ate Indications to-night tliat the
Pies. dent's proposal will meet with a
divided reception In this country, owing
to the tint that It Is corisldctcd im
practicable by some and luexpeillent by
othe-iK vvlio follow Hid doctrine that tlie
Cnlteil State should not become entan
gled with Luiopcau nations in any foi in
of alliance, Rut the all important point,
ollicials eledarrd to-night, Is the effect
the liesldcnl's addles will have on tilt
chatneHetlis of the belligerent Powers.,
it is lnlleveil that It wil reeve a
much wanner wehoino In 1 1 ill and
Vienna than ,u London, Pars en Ivii'o
glad. Toe latter capitals are admittedly
siispn lolls of any pence pioposals, bow
ever vague, which appeal to have thc.r
insp ration in Ueini.uiy's pn -cut propa
gamin for an end of the w.u lint the
fact thai the licsiileiit has laiefnlly re-
fumed f i Inillalliig pii.posals foi
inedltaiioii at the present tune will, It
i hoped by ollli.a'.s here, as-uic a fair
mill unbiassed healing al
i apitals
t, i Luteins
DH. liKitiS IX ATTKNDANCi: HI DSO.N VAL1.KY TIKD I P
ofllclals, tho
went lo sleep
if the
his Intention to sign a certincaio soon
tindet takers cmli.iln.cd the body,
The Mullens brothers ate retlrrd
plumbers. They said the; had not known
of their sister's illness.
CHURCH BUILT TO BAR SALOON.
Princes liny Women lllock I'lmis
nt mi Italian.
Women at Princes Ray. Slaten Islam',
which has been without a saloon fo"
twenty-eight years, have Just succeeded
In blocking the plans of Leon Leondattl.
an Italian, to open a thirst euro near
the Princes Hay station.
When they learned to what purpose
Leondattl Intended to put a small bulbl
Ins which he hud erected on Mm rear
of his property more than ana feet from
ih. nearest dwelling, they appealed to
.I,- enei,.iu f nrevent hint front carrv
Inir out li s project, 1 ne
women say, apparently
and did nothing.
Undaunted, the women sol e lei sub
scrlptlons In Lcondnttl's neighborhood
for the erection of a church, and on
ia. i th. church a small one--
w-as constructed In the. rear of the
Italian's proposed saloon s te. Berv ces
were conetucteii in ui" nuusn...
night and meetings will be held there
every Hunday In the future. Inasmuch
as no license can bo granted for a
saloon within a certain distance of a
church, the little housn of worship will
make It Impossible for Leondattl to
carry out Ills scheme.
FIGHTING GROW ROUTS HIM.
Hobber of M Forced to llrop ail
Feet From Tree.
CmMi HROVK, N. J May David
i; Ureen of Pateison was forced lo let
go his hoUl and elrop thlity feet fiom the.
brandies of a tree to-day to pievcnt
His jiecklng out of 111 eyes by v lieu
crow from whosu nest he was trying lo
steal eggs,
The youm. man was badly cut and
u-i'iiiehed bv the fall, but he had 'an a
lo lily Hall soon,
CANAL OPENING NEXT FALL.
Urn. I.octbal" llenelies IV Illusion,
.liililiilcn, on Way Here.
xi'iif ' olilf Ih sMlri lo Tin: Six
IxI.mision, Jam ilea, May is - Major
Uuu Uocthals anived hero yesterday on
his way lo New Voik. lie said lie ex
pcetfd tlie formal opening of tlie Panama
Canal to take place next fall. The West
Indians who Iniltcd build the canal and
wish to ii luin to their native land, he
said, will le repatriated.
AUTOS HIT: I DEAD. 3 HURT.
TO HONOR FIRST WAR VICTIM.
VI n lent I'luiineil In IVuurnt,
sbol llefore Dee'lnrnllon,
I'akis, Mai '."i. The nieinoty of His
llrsi I'ieiich victim of the war, Jules
Andre Peugeot, corporal in Hie Foity
fouith Regiment of Infantry, is to lie
honored by a niitiiiuneiit ut Joncharey,
in the Department of Hunt Rhln, A
naliomtl subscription has Just been
started for the purpose, Peugeot was
a sentry em the road to Faverols on
tlie day before war was declared anil
was slint by a Herman border patrol.
Machine I nine ToKcllier nt I i-iim,
run el In Deliivvnre,
Wn.Ml.MiTON. Del., May 2x. y and.
llslon of two automobiles at the .Mount
Pleasant ctossfoads, soulli of heic. Will
lam H. Shea of this city was Instantly
killed and three other persons were in
jured, Mrs. Shea was cut and bruisi'd and
Mrs, Charles L Slory, another occupant
of the car, was slightly butt Ueorge
Schaffer, the driver, was hurt liner nally.
Charles Schaffer, coniieited with the
Chesapeake and Deiawaie Canal I'om
iwiny . his two aims, Jaines and Chailcs,
and a man named O'Neal weie occu
pants of the- other ear and one bad
Ids arm broken, while the Schafti rs were
slightly hurt.
Wrecks lire' on Iloluors.
The gainsoii withdrew, with tlie ex
ception of one co.upaiiv occupying the
Kula position, whet, tin en-led at the In
vislon by the lieredltary foe. Hied on
ihe Ru g.it s. The latter leiurncir in
ST I'iI'i.M.i; " - .1.1-nes J Hill spent
a retbss day and the evening bulletin
Issued by his physicians. Or. J. S. till
tlllan of St. Paul and Dr Hermann M.
Higgs of New Voik. described 111 concil
ium a uniiuprov cd since yesterday, when
an operation was pet formed by the .Mayo
brother" of Rm hestcr, Mum, on au ab
scess of the groin.
The following bulletin was issued at
s .IP' I'. M .
"Condition tins cenniK less favorable.
Mr Hill's strength Is failing somewhat,
and on account of his age the outlook
becomes extremely serious.
ilwiMANN M. Uluos.
"J S Uii.ru.r.AN.'
Repot Is Hum Hie Hill residence to
night aie that the patient Is sinking
lapidy Flit mis of tlie family declared
they dltl n it expect blm to live until
moiulus It I ald tae infcenon from
th" absciss lis spread below the knee
and lie patient lost i onsciousucs frc
uueutly tills afternoon and evening.
1 1 is evident tint hi physician are
disappointed and alarmed .it Mr. Hill's
fallurn to tally within twelve hour. after
the liberation Ariel th" morning con
Tvitl.TTOw.N. May IS The eiectt hat
stcrm which rwept ovei the Hudson Va'
h." to-night w.i" the vvoi 't of tl-e year,
ll put out of commission Hie entire elec
trical division of the New Vork Central
Railroad from New York to Croton.
livery station was In dntkness and elec
tric trains were stalled all along the
load. The entire schedule was put bid;
thirty minute or rnor Railroad olll
chilf say this never happened hefoie. It
Is believed that tlie trouble was pi itlcl
pally In the power houe at .Mott Haven.
Thousands of persons returning to New
Yolk weie caught in the shower ami ee
l.iycd in leturtiing home, but no aci I
ih tits were reported The storm started
at ' "it o'clock and raged until late lu
the evening
Westchester county was in total daik-lies-
after 9 n clock Trolley se i vno
va discontinued from S tn la .ID o'clock.
During a heavy part of the noun a
In here, adJing to
'man lew of lel r.-e
i tpliihius emanating ' "
sou: aie that the lie ,.
Is of tin' higln st iiintoi'lani'
creiiie to tin- ' loin ' Ha
ioiiiiini as .111 .iiilicaiion
1 t.iie.i M.ites e Pi ci tunc nt I'a
the "ill-gal Hntih bloikatb
T.nr,' is a tendency lo utintiu'e Hi'
President s stateiiient tliat tlie world
"now turns eagiily. more ami mote
iiuetlv, toward the hope ot peace" to
an Inclination mi the
i .e' lnan
S addles
His -cf-
sea-, is
that the
I in mind
nle. iu did n". advanco until the garrl-lthe l;yl ""J ,,7.1 '" "'
son had evacuated the town In accord- , - '' 111 .V,, , ; , 1 ,V.;, t li e las n ne, U'n excitement,
ance with o.ders received from Ath. ns. J 'W sks a n. V,c, a 1, , ! A heavy tl.undei's.or
Viiolher despotch received from Sa- ,,"'", '' V , ' 1ML,i,, ..a . flashevs of llgbttiln
innlca late to.gh. says: jn ;rovu 'I, . Uie nmat constituted I
WOMAN KILLED IN RUNAWAY.
YUAN POISONED IS REPORT.
( hi n cue President So III He I tin
nhlr tn Speak.
.npfcial t ahU l)trpntc to fur. Srs.
Tokio, via London. May 28, The
I'ekln correspondent of the Asahi SAfm
biiit reports that President Yuan Hhlh
It'a I has been gravely III since Friday,
He Is said to be unable to speak,
Thcie Is talk of a poisoning plot being
suspected by the authorities,
iikunia in ami onice,
xi'(ii ''ei',e llespattli to Tun hix
Tokio, via London, May IS. Premier
i iKiima In a speech yesterday Intimated
W hen 'I'll rim n
Near Itnnltiiry.
Skull Frncliireil
From Carrlnm-
DAXiit'tiv, Conn, May 'Jx. Ml Jean
W. Tat lock of t'lifl la'Xlligtim avi'liue,
New Yoik, dkil last niglit ill tile hospital
It Is statu! that the Ulceus toiigiii
tin Hulgars at Rupell lor two ami one
half tioii-s before the order to evacuate
Ih, foil was received The Uieek wept
when ordered to r ilse tlie while Hag,
The Hulgars posted a brl,:ailn on each
hank of the site of the Deinlr-lllssar
bridge, which has not been restored since
Hen. Sanail blew it up In Januiry.
"It in ruinoii'il that the Ureek gar
rison of the town of Deinir-lllssnr -was
withdiavvn, the Hulgars occupying the
town. .
"H is also rutnoteil that all (iteek
tioops In eastern Macedonia ate retiring
In the dllectlon of Saloulca,"
Tlu'ie Is nothing In the latesl des
patches from Athens to Indicate a na
tional mil imi st in Ureece over the Hul
un rlaii invasion, although some excite-
tne capital, l ne
,.w.,ii nreva s In I lie canna l. l lie i, in ¬
here from a rraiiurcd sunn r.ciiveii ' Pnunenl press repn'sems inn invasion
when she was thrown from a cairiage 1 as Herman, not Hiilg.irinu. Kugllsh cor
wbleh she was Driving with tlie lesooiideiit assert uns is ouoe nun ure
In
Misses Mary and Ann lliimkei liorr.
Miss Tatlock airlved at Redding on
Saturday to spend the week end at tho
summer home of A. I'' Hiinekerhoff, a
landscape auiiilect, with olllces at 15
Lust Fortieth stieel, New Yoik In tho
afternoon she and Mr lliinckerboff's
two sisters drove lo Ucorgeiowu and on
the way homo Ihe bono ran away,
throw I'll! all tluee women Into the toad,
Miss Tatlock landed head Hist on a
sloae. The two other women escapee!
serious Injury,
POPE FAVORS DAYLIGHT LAW.
Intention of preventing a popular out
bleak which Is anticipated In rase It
is lealUed Hint the Invaders are Hul
gars It la slateel that Ureece will protest
against the Invasion as she did against
the occupation of Saloilca by tho F,n
tcnte ni iiilc.
SERBS AT SALONICA.
Ileuinant of Army, 80,11(10 In 100,.
000 Men, Traimfcrred,
Pvnirt, Mnv .s -The remnants of Hie
lorm and sharp
uised ex'Citenien; ,r
the Christian
lludeavor Society at Pocantlcn Hills 1
John D. Rockefeller, .It , was the piln
olpil speaker. The storm put out the
lights and left the audience In ilaikne.
wh le Mr Rockefeller was making an
addiis and also when tlie congrega'.iiui
was singing.
The longest spell of riatkiiess ciniia
when tho pastor, the Rev J Homer Nel
son, announced that the collection would
be taken. Fortunately one of the Rock
efeller employee had a flashlight m hi
p.iiket and Oil partly Illuminated Ihe
room un'll the lights came on
Preceding the meeting Mr. Roikefel
ler's daughter bhle distributed hymn
books nt the direction or her mother.
Mr. Rockefeller read lan Maclaren'
illeiidance. ' sermon "I if l ro'Ugai .-on
intimate! yestctday ' ' " " '" ' '" ;, ' ',' ", ' ",,
rtalii Infre.iueully I V"" ,' o , .
bill he said: "Sit still, they will be on
111 ,i minute." fter the service Mr ami
Ml. Rockefeller shook hands with a. I
proscnt.
Continued vii Ufionil fugt.
Order t'liurcli Hell In He
nt New Mldilny Hour.
Sofiml ohlr iiiiHitr'i in Tin: si x
RoMI.'. .May 2 s Pope
slgnilleil his appiovnl of
saving law
Heglnnlns with June il ho has ordered
the rliiBlnK of the bells ot Italian
churchca at midday ut the new hour.
iHcibliin in my. ettlnuiled al between mi.
IIiiiiut i ofnl and imi. nan olllceis and men -!
the original strength of tlie Serb army
uns :ino.linn -I repotted lu a wireless
leMiiatch to have airlved safely at
Itciicdlcl h is i saloulca fiom Coi fu after ciosslng the
the day light , .Meruit without mishap. .Tho trip Is
about "fin mile hy water,
The Serbs have been newly equipped
and dothcel, and are reported to t In
good lighting trim.
d.iiiuerous itiiicii
Late III the day Dr Uillllliu rhatac
leilzed Mr, IHI'"s coiulitl Ml a decidedly
grave His highest temperature! during
the day wa HH.
All the member of Hie family have
bein summoned and the Rev. James mil
lions, pastor of Hie Cathedral of St Paul,
was called lo the Hill home al 1 P. M.
and remained with the family through
the afternoon
I,.cto to-night M R Ilienv n. private sccre.
tary to Mr. Hill, aiin-'iinced that Mr. and
Mrs Walter Hli of Noithrote. Minn,
would arrive at l" art P. M . Mr. and
Mrs. Sam Hill of Seattle, Wash., at 7 :H0
A. M. ; Mr. and Mis. J N. Hill of New
York at in A M and Mr anil Mis.
Ilea id of New Vol It to-morrow night.
unci of the physician
upon Mr. Hill
tiiornliic tint 1
used sedative might be of Item-lit to tlie
patient, other doctors ptesent statin
that none of It could be obtained at any
point neater than Chicago
Passenger and freight trafllc on the
Chicago, lliiiilngton and (Julncy I tall
roael between Chicago anil tills eity was
sliletraekeel In give right of way lo a
special train beating ll" sislative
All speed record between Ihe two
cities bowed to that establlslieel by the
special's' run, the 431 miles being made
In eight hours ami tluee minutes, or au
average of tlfty-fnilr Illlles all ll'tlir. Tills
surpassed by llfty-fenir minutes tliu
record of December "V last, when Dr, ll,
W, Sippey of Chicago was brought hero
over tint Hurllugton by special ti.tlu to
attend tlie late Thnuius Shevlln.
The 11111 special consisted nf Iwo
coaches and e ngine. It left Chicago at
1 .Hi P M. and arrived al !'.:', The trip
1 from Urand Crossing, al La Crosse,
Wis., lo St Paul, a instance ot 1.1
mile, was made lu two liouis and sin
minutes.
When the si-datlve was dcllvcicd al
the Hill lesldencc the surgeon decided
not to avail themselves of ll,
p.u t of Hi'; United
.States Uineiniuent tn inuiaie sumo
dcHii.ie move to htlng the wa. to a
i dose Tlie opinion is v olunlecti d that
Uerniauy will well nine III' suggestion
and taut Ml. Wilson's address wl -pin
fnnneliy liiipt-'s the Uctmau Uovern
nu iit anil th" Herman people 'I lie 'exl
of !iu- Pi.Mciit's speech Is ntiilei stood
to have been sent by wucles to Her
hli '''iilll so. ll es dose 'o Ihe Ln'Ulle
embassies ihe op'nion f.H more te
set veil. It !s t.ited, for e xample thai
the I'les.ilent dells Willi e'Vills of til
tiliutt, whl'h ex ill not tui'ive oi snlera
lion In ad'.aine of iUetlon p-iialiiing
to ihe ptesinl lonillci in vvhnb Hi
Ihittnle Allies ate whole lieatt illv en
gage d
It is loo e.ulv lo rmecast the ieee..
t'oll Wllli'll the Pre Sltletll'S iittc-r.i ncc
will ifceive lii the llntcnte rapii.il P
is e xpi'iinei, but the pre diction is made
that il will nni in any way Intrrfer
with the entente's pii-sent plans for con
Hull. tig tlie v-ai
SMALL STORM !. CITY.
Tliollalllld llrlven In Shelter Vltild
I'.lcclrlcnl IHsplaj,
inoilest thuiul'Tnrin hit N-w Yo-';
dty at liiU" oi'loclc last night, ii-m-teiing
enough electrical energy to iinti-1
thu local forecaster to take note
It ehove Hie lenipi-iauue down
pegs, in lo
shelter f om
illtlon for
weather'
Hudson,
of
Te w
and sent thousand to
i Miarp shower. The on
eleiiiical Ht'rw'Oii.s, ihe
man said, were good no the
and Ihe reports iiienllotoil ll un-
dels tin ins In Phlholelvliia and s. i.inom
I Theloieiiisi for to-dav call foi n.nllv
I'londy ska- tenipei anil e ,iii, ut tin
same a yesterday and nioder.iii shllt-
, lug wind's The highest le npe-i Hut e
yefliiilay "as "7 al I -jn P M . and I lie
J low est was .11 at j A. M.
W ilson's Motive In llui'stlon,
i tllli nils In-re p. nut out that much tvd
dt.'ieiid on I In- view which Ihe Brit st.
I'i'ciich ami Russian chancilleilc rake
of ilic Prn,dcnt s moilve for tn.il, ng
ins pos.llon deir al tills time m the
s-iibl-'it of iiicdiatiiui.
Tune is a feeling of confidence her.
ilia: Mi Wilsons real meaning and In
ih sue to lender ltnp.trli.il servi-e t
ill tl.c wa'i'ing najions. shouhi he luv,
tae i r v ,iei--e. will not he inisiinderstuoii
ll is reinarkeil that the address chart
p. lies ihe liiileil Slate's In a pn-itiot
ol w.l itiKiiit-s to he of set vice only v
ca- this sect ice is desired
From unollli ,.il advance infomiatlon
i "ii. i' r inns Ihe Pn ldeiit's projected ad
dress several of the lllltetlto dlplomits
had icaso'i lo fear I ha I the (i evident
liiighl sugjesi that pen e now was tae
.only lo;nal outi mill' of a stiuvgle Mia'
In, ij lent lie d a ili'.iilloi k and lh.it fill
i pit . o iili r wis futile This idea .ma
ot Hei suinl'it' in it af entirely la. kmc
ill the 1'n siden'.' address, it i pn lite I
out.
Ill f,i I. the c I lie, Iat--'! I I'ft lei
single senieiico which Ihe entente could
tonsil tn- a inspired bv the present He
man i onlentioii that the wat 's nlrradv
in. ' mi lar as actual iesut,v aro con
cei lied
Th ' i epresciit ed a Hi carrllna'
won i Hciliri sets foi'h ii a rejso,
foi' I act- al Ho- pii-selil I m "Whi
aiiillic more lives and Ireasine when
Hi,, teioilts can no longci he ihangeii"'
s 'ite icason advanced by Ice Henna
Uniha-s-v in support
lor e iditu ihe
ih hi
I'
of eb flu i"
conll.it without.
move.
furllo
t i.i:
lOlllll
il'li
he
pn .It isionil IhH Rcttie-cntat.v
Mass.n hiiseits hid som fen
I' c 'ile i iniglu he pe mailed
i a - .land and thai lor h s
Iiniodu't'd hi resolution In tlu
in&iii m' ' us'.
