FINANCIAL EDITION
NIGHT
EXTRA
itiiemnu
iMthntt
NIGHT
EXTRA
i "5
VOI II. NO. 221
rnxLADELPniA, Monday, may 29, 1 010.
CoMiiortT, 1010. ar ins Pnitio Ltmn Covrtttt
PltlOJS (XNJOBIOf
,ft
K'.'V
i a
TEUTONIC POWERS LAUNCH
TRIPLE OFFENSIVE; SUPREME
EFFORT TO END WORLD WAR
Mighty Drives in France; Italy and
. i5aiKans to se juxtendeci Soon to
Russia Defensive Attitude to
Be Adopted if Blows Fail
.Less Talk of Peace in Berlin While Armies Are Engaged.
Germany Determined to Fight to tne End and Leave to
Allies the Initiative in Move to Close Bloodiest
.Chapter of Human History
GENEVA, May 29.
A triple offensive has been launched, by (he Central Powers with the grow
ing possibility that it will sopn be extended to the cast fronts.
Troops of the German allies arc engaged in offensive operations on tlvJ
west front, on the Austro-Italian front and in the Balkans. In Turkey the
Ottoman troops are striving vigorously to launch a counter-offensive against the
Russians, but they are meeting with severe obstacles.
1 It is believed by some important Swiss military critics that Germany nnd
.har allies are now engaged in their final supreme effort. If they fail it will
likely Ik. necessary for them to adopt defensive tactics until the end of the war.
Dispatches from Dcrlin state that there is less peace talk now. Gurmnny,
having made her position clear before the world nnd having shown her willing
ness to make peace, is now determined to fight on until the end, making it neces
sary for the Allies to make the first peace move, say the advices.
RIOTS IN ATHENS WHILE BULGARS
INVADE GREECE AND SEIZE FORTS
PARIS Mny 29.
Riots have broken out in Athens as a
result of tho Bulgarian Invasion of East
ern Macedonia, according to a telegram
received today from tho Greek capital. A
'hostile demonstration was made In 'front or
ithe palace.
Dispatches from Athens announced last
week that the Skouloudls Cabinet had rv
(signed owing to tho political situation In
Greece. It was stated that tho pro
Allies party had becomo stronger nnd tho
country was ngaln being swept by nn Inter
ventionists agitation. It was said that
Skouloudls might be succeeded by a non
neutral cabinet, which possibly would fore
shadow Greece's intervention In the great
war.
The Greek war party, le, b,y ex-Ptrciter
Venlzelos. Is using' the' Bulgarian Invasion
mand the't Grec'co enter the-war on tho side,, LfD AW fll A'R(QI7QI
of tho Allies. TKe Venliellst organs do- jjjj fy, Hj AllWLflJ
Claro tnat tno MUlgars, conconiriiuuB neur
Xantht. are planning nn advance ngalnst
the Greek port, of Kavala, long coveted bl
ithe Bulgars. It Is believed here, however,
that King Constantino, unwilling to plungo
his country Into war, will confine action to
a diplomatic protest against the Invasion.
tho cast of the place whore It was expected
attack. It wns evidently part of German
strategy .to attack the Allies on the flank.
Cemlr Hlssar Is on tho railway lino which
runs through tho territory Greece acquired
In the Balkan wars. It Is about 45 miles
northeast of Salonika.
Pro-Alllos newspapers declare that the
Bulgarian offensive Is aimed at Greece, as
well as tho Allies, and out tho question:
"Will tho Bulgarian flag supplant tho
Greek flag In Macedonia?"
There aro military critics who think that
tho Bulgarians are ready to drive through
to Kavala on the Aegean coast.
Three Greek forts and several block
houses were captured by the Bulgarians.
But the Greoks are In possession of Seres,
f S
A
GERMANS AND BULGARS SHELL
ALLIES' DEMIR HISSAR LINE
ATHENS. May 20, Bulgarian troops,
equipped with German artillery and led by
German ofllccrs, are violently bombarding
the Allies' positions on tho Dcmlr Hlssar
front In Macedonia.
The Bulgarians havo penetrated Greek
territory for 15 miles, and at some points
where the Greek troops tried to stem the
invasion, they were vigorously shelled by
the Bulgara.
All tho Indications aro that the long-expected
drive ngalnst tho Allies in Mace
donia Is finally under way, and that the
Central Powers have decided upon an of
fanslye campaign In almost all tho theatres
of war.
Strong protests have been made to the
Bulgarian Government by the Greek Gov
ernment ngalnst tho Intrusion of Bulgarian
iBoldlers In Greek soil. On Sunday mass
meetings were held here and in Salonlca,
When resolutions were adopted protesting
against tho Invasion of Greece. There were
cries of "down with the Bulgarians !"
There arc approximately 40.000 Bulgar
ians, and Germans on Greek soil. The point
where the invasion took place was far to
that the Central Powers would make their
THE WEATHER
Being polkllothermal may have some
thing to do with it. At 'hdy rate. ,we have
the bost depresslg cold that was ever
yjslted upod a hubad belg. It is Ibpossible
to strike tho right keys of this typewriter,
so blldlg are the tears that tlow frob our
eyes add alog our dose. Warb weuther. a
shower of raid, a log rud to Bavo our skid
frnh hlc- ,lr..rlMlfl that's llOW the COd
cabe. To that add a polkllotherbal cod-?
dltlod.
Polkllotherbal beads cold-blooded full
of cold. Atchool Atchoofl
FORECAST FOR PENNSYLVANIA
Daae'i on a tfeu Discovery in Solar Ptiutlcs on
WlLLlB J,. HOORE and '. F. 0AB0TIIEK8,
Sunday, June The week will open mod.
crate! warm and cloudy,
Monday, June J There HK be showers
n advance of a cool wave.
Tuesday, June 6, W ednesday, June 7 and
Thursday, June 8 A, cool wave is due
Tuesday and Wednelday, with- clearing
weather and to degrees cooler,. Ught frosts
being probable in exposed places,
Friday, June 0, and Saturday, June 10
Warmer temperatures will be'returning as
the week close, generally atr weather con
tinuing qenrraz, weather movements
, DVE. '
A cool movement, due to develop the
northwest, June J, will be relnorced by an
ittfermittenr movement, June , mafclna an
average to strong movement, U wilt be
preceded by showers in the Middle West
and thence eastward to the Atlantic and
will )ting is to to degrees cooler weather
generally, with jrost in the extreme north'
west. '
A moderate movement is due June 7,
bringing generally air and warmer weather.
GOVERNME'NT FORECAST
For Philadelphia and vicinity Un
settled and continued warm and humid
tonight and Tuesday, with probably
thunder shatters; gentle variable winds.
Contlnned on rate Four, Column Tiro
PLAN TO BREAK UP
PENROSE MEETING
Hints at Plot to Interfere
With Republican Com-'
mittee Conference
"SOME ONE" TELEPHONED
XOST ANP FOUND
DJAWOWO 1NITIAI, PIN. "H C. W' Ut.
Jro a KlU Carlton lib. Twrd IM Walnut.
BCW-Lem win-hiked tax WMJ,!!?!.
WuiaKe4. MbctM reward. .! .JE
.Jtupwni. OvMrttraot 340.
Alleged efforts to break up the meeting
of the newly elected Republican State Com
mittee, which Is to bo held at theBolIevue
Stratford Hotel next Wednesday, were
blocked today by State Chairman William
K. Crow.
Senator Crow, In a public statement, al
leged that "some one" had been telephoning
to the newly elected committeemen request
ing them not to appear nt the meeting.
The reason given by the "unknown" per
sons, who are alleged to have clone the
telephoning, according to Senator Crow, Is
that the ofllclal count at Harrlsburg Is not
completed and that no certificates of elec
tion, as members of the State Committee,
have been issued.
Senator Crow declined to say who had
telephoned the comltteemen. He declared
that tho law plainly fixes next Wednesday
for the State Committeemen to meet and
organize.
The meeting of the State Committee will
precede a caucus of the Pennsylvania dele
gates to the Republican National Conven
tion, called last week by Senator Penrose.
Tho Brumbaugh delegates have threatened
to bolt the caucuH of delegates and Chair
man Crow, who Is a lieutenant of Senator
Penrose, intimates that the Brumbaugh
forces also are attempting to prevent the
meeting of the Stata Ctfmmlttee.
The. Republican State .Committee officials
today reached as many members of the new
State Committee as they could by tele
phone. To the other members the follow.
Ing telegram was sent:
"It Is Important for you to bo present
at the meeting of the State Committee on
Wednesday morning at the Bellevue-Strat-ford
Hotel. Philadelphia. I am advised
that a movement If on to keep committee,
men from attending. Pay no attention to
any suggestion of that nature. Your pres
ence here Is necessary,! as the law fixes
Wednesday as the final day to organize."
The telegram was signed by William E
Crow, chairman.
Senator Crow also signed the following
statement which was given out at Repub
lican State Committee headquarters on
South Broad street. '
My attention haa been called, to an at
tempt on the part of certain persons to
misinform members of the Stata Committee
regarding the meeting of the committee on
Wednesday in Philadelphia. I learned that
telephone messages have been sent to com
mitteemen requesting them not to appear
by reason of the fact that the official , count
at Harrlsburg is not completed, ami that no
certificates of election as members of the
State Committee have been Issued.
"i wish to advise the men elected as mem
ber of the State Committee that there
positively Will be a meeting on Wednesday
in accordance with the law on tha subject.
"As State chairman. I am duty bound tp
.observe tha letter of the law. and take ihla
means of notifying the committeemen us to
the necessity of being present on Wednes
day morning at the Bellevue-Stratfprd
Hotel. Philadelphia. From Information re
ceived direct from the offices of the County
Commissioners throughout the Stae, I learn
that there Js no contest or dispute of any
hind. Jn connection with he election of Stata
Committeemen. Bvery man elected, there
fore, ! suro ot bla authqrlty to alt on tha
commute, and as chairman of that body
I in-guAs Ut recognwa the men declared,
elected by the offlclal count under tha super
vision of the County UproBs!Brs,',
"EMPIRE BUILDER" DIES IN ST. PAUL
r
KeisA8tr8smar-t-? t&mmii8iSM&&&m&
:zwmnmm?mm?m&'3mg
hmmmmm
mssssB'&mwSif'yJIB&
James J. Hill, financier and railroad pioneer, whoso lifework was
openinp up the vast fertile fields of tho Northwest to the East, died
today after an-operation performed by tho Doctors Mayo.
FRENCH REPULSE
2 DRIVES ON WEST
BANK OF MEUSE
Violent Assaults Delivered
by Germans From Woods
' West of Cumieres '"
FIVE
HOURS
l
OF BATTLE
The 'west bank of the Meuse has be
come the scene of violent activity on
tho part of the Germans.
Two attacks were made against the
French position in Corbeaux, northwest
of Verdun, last night, but both wore re
pulsed, it is announced today by tho
French War Office.
East of tho Mouse River the Germans
arc concentrating their artillery fire
against Fort Vaux.
Throughout all of Sunday and all
night long the big guns were hammer
ing away at tho French positions at
Fort Vaux. Tho French guns replied
and the artillery duel developed into
one of tho utmost violence.
Tho most recent Berlin bulletin
claims advantage on the western side
of tho Mouse. London admits Teuton
raids on trenches along the Flanders
front, prepared by heavy cannonading.
PARIS, Slay 2D,
In a five-hour battle waged last night on
tho west bank of the Jleuse two most vlo
lent German attacks from the Corbeaux
woods, west of Cumieres, were completely
rcpUlsed, tho War Oflice announced today.
The Germans launched the first attack at
Continued on Tase Four, Column Three
HUGHES THE MAN
TO BEAT WILSON,
HITCHCOCK SAYS
','1,'m .Confident He.WiU Ac-
' ' fcept!Tif'Nonimated " Ex-"
Chairman Asserts
TAKES BOOM TO CHICAGO
CHICAGO. May 29. The boom for Su
preme Court Justice Hughes for tho Re
publican presidential nomination got under
way In earnest here tqday with tho arrival
In Chicago of Frank H. Hitchcock, ex
chairman of the Republican National Com
mittee and now chief among tho Hughes
boosters.
Hitchcock said he wanted it emphatically
understood thnt he Is "not here to open up
Hughes headquarters," bu( he admitted he
would be "on tho job" to look out for the
Justice's Interests and would "keep nn ear
to the ground." j
"I am confident Hoghe3 will accept If
he Is nominated," Hitchcock said. "Ho has
not told mo bo, but I feel that way a.hout
It. I haven't teen Mr. Hughes for a month.
He 13 the most likely candidate. It will
ho a hard task to beat Woodrow Wilson,
but Hughes Is the man to do It.
"If tho people will go back and read
Hughes' speeches, made before he went to
the Supremo Court, they will know how ho
stands on everything. He -hasn't changed.
WHITMAN TO MAKE SPrfKCH.
"Hughes will'be the first man nominated.
Alabama will yield to New York and Gov
speech. Whitman will make the-nominating
speech. Whitman will be here Mondoy
and so will George B. Tanner. Now Vork
State chairman. Hughes, will have SO
votes from New Vork .on tho first ballot, a
majority of tha delegation,"
The first presidential candidate arrived
In Chicago today. T, Coleman du Pont, of
Delaware, who expects the vote of his
Continued on 1'ore File. Column One
BURLESON SUMMONED
IN 'POSTMASTERS' LOBBY'
Senate Committee Requests Him
to Appear Some Say
Blakslee Is "Goat"
Bti'a Staff Corrotiondent
WASHINGTON, May 29 Dissatisfied
with the statement of Fourth Assistant
Postmaster General Blakslee that his
"postmasters' lobby" was not Inspired by
his chief. Postmaster peneral Burleson, the
members of the Senate Postofflce Committee
have decided to ''request" the latter to ap
pear before them either tomorrow or Wed
nesday, When the committer had Blakslee "on
the carpet" Saturday, he said ha had In
spired the bojnpardment of Congress with
a view totfdrclns "acceptance, of Postmaster
General Burleson's view on railway mall
pay and ruraL route extensions without con
sulting Postmaster Qeneral Burleson. Sev
eral of the members ar Inclined to the
belief that Blakslee Is being made "the
goat," and that tho propaganda of the
Post Qfflce pspartment to force Senators
and Congressmen Into lino waa really start
ed by Postmaster General Burleson.
If Postmaster General Burleson thould
decline tp testify before the committee, It
la said here that President Wilson wilt be
asked to have him appear. Democratic and
Republican Senators who are members of
the Postofflce Committee are united In the
belief that BlaUslee should be removed from
his present position, and a demand is being
made for hla discharge.
CwuJuc,tor FalU to Death
NORRISTOWN. Ea, May S9. Patrick
Flemmlng, U years old. a Reading nallway
conductor, was killed shortly before mid
night abave Bridgeport by falling from a
lucomotUe. His head was severed and hla
body mutuate4 Coroner McGUltitjry has
not found any one who W Flemmlmj frU
fro the locomotive.
ARMORY COPING FALLS;
MAN CRUSHED TO DEATH
Two-Ton Marble Block Breaks
Scaffold Another Work
man Seriously Injured
One workman was killed and another
fatally injured today when a two.ton mar
ble coping which was being placed oyer' the
main entrance of the new State Armory,
being constructed at 33d street and Lan
caster avenue, fe! on a scaffold on which
the men Were 8tandng. The scaffold
crashed to, the paement a distance of SO
feet, burying the men under the wreckage.
The dead man was Stephen Cazulo, 57
years old, ot lit Nortji GSth street, a stone
carver, whose handiwork adorns many of
the buildings in the central section of the
city. Almost eery bone In his body was
broken.
The Injured man, who Is not expected to
live, Is John Smith, 45 years old, of 5553
Chancellor street He received Internal In
juries and possible concussion-of the brain.
He was taken to the Presbyterian Hospital.
At least 100 persons witnessed the ac
cident. Cazulo, with a small model at his
Side, waa carving a huge eagle over the
main entrance when the marble coping over
his head suddenly toppled.
The men ware employed by tho Tognarelll
& Volght Company, of llii North l?th
street, subcontractors for the Fidelity Con
struction Company, of 1213-15 Filbert street
Special Officers Roseboro and Farmer, of
tha 39th street and Lancaster avenue sta
tion, were assigned to Investigate the acci
dent. City Hall Workers Want 2 Weeks Off
A request fi?r a two weeks' vacation with
pay Instead of one was made of Director
Datesman. of the Department of Publlo
Works, this aftenwon by 200 cleaners,
painters and other attendants at city Hall
The Director received, the request In a
friwidls? mttltuda afcd alJ he would, hold. It
yndcr advisement
QUICK NEWS
MAURER AND PRESIDENT IN CONFERENCE
WASHINGTON, Mny 20. Jnmos H, Mnutcv, yiicsldent of t!ic
Fcnnsyivnnin Federation of Lnbor, today called on Frcslcleiit Wltsai
nnd discussed labor matters. Mr. Mnurer also discussed with t;ie
Fiesldent tho question of nn adequate national defense.
EX-AMBASSADOR CREEL'S NEPHEW ARRESTED IN MEXicO
JUAREZ, May 20. Juan Creel, nephew of the former Ambassa
dor to the United States; Enrique Legett, giandon of Luis Torrazis,
the Chihuahua land baron; Francisco Larsicla and one other Mcxlcnu
hnvu been nnestcd nndimprlsoncd here. They were taken Into cus
tody when they ciossed the International Hues.
r
1
MONTREAL RACING RESULTS
First race, purse $000, 2-year-olds, 4 1-2 furlongs Mnnokln,
113, Ward, $4.20, $4.10 and $3, won; Imp Joanna 2d, 100, Hoblnson,
S13.50 and 90.70, second; Conowlngo, 100, Mott. S3 GO. third.
Time, :57 2-5.
BELMONT RACING RESULTS
Fhst race. 2-year-olds, selling, with SSOO'adtled, 41-3 furloug3
None uch, 100 Ball, 4 to D and' out, won; Badiant Flower, 100, Mink,
11 to 5, 2 to 0 nnd out second; Barry 108, TnpHn, 15 t.. 1, 5 to 2 and
out, third. Time', :55. Jovo also ran. ' -
'
I ' ' -T.J""
JAMES J. HILL,
GREAT 'EMPIRE
BUILDER DEAfi
Noted Railroad Magnate and
Financier Succumbs in
78th Year
STARTED AS POOR BOY'
Was Powerful Factor in Devel
opment of Nbrthwest's
Resources
Epochs in Life pf J. . , '
Empire Builder in West
550 DEATHS FROM GERMAN RAIDS ON ENGLAND
LONDON, May 23. Five hundred nnd fifty men, women and children luivo been
killed by German air nnd sen nttauku upon England, it was announced In Commons
today by Home Scretury Herbert Samuel. There have been three sea raids Land -44
nlr nttaaks. In tho sea raids 61 men, 40 women nnd 40 children were killed nnd
611 were Injured; in tho nir raltut 222 men, 114 women nnd 73 children we.ro killed
nnd 1005 wounded. ' "v
-WILE IMPOSE'SURTAX ON INCOMESFK0MkU: S7SECURITIES
LONDON, May 2D. Ilefclnuld McKcnna, Chancellor of the Exchequer, r.avo
notice In Commons today ho would move nn additional Income tax of 2 shillings
tho pound on tho income from American securities acquired by the Treasury.
HEAVY GUNFIRE HEARD IN THE BALTIC
STOCKHOLM, May 29. -Honvy Bunllro wuh henrd In the Baltic In the direction
of Ocse Island on Sunday. Just before tho cannonade opened German ships laden
with ore were sighted under tho convoy of warships.
i BRITAIN AND FRANCE TAKE UP MAIL SEIZURE REPLY
LONDON, May 2D. The British Government will hold conversations with 'the
French Foreign CAlce before any reply Is made to the note of the United States
protesting against mall seizures. It probably will bo a fortnight before the reply
is in shape.
BRITISH MARRIED MEN REPORT FOR MILITARY SERVICE
LONDON, May 29, Married groups between the ages of 27 and 33 reported to
tho War Oflice for service today. These men were given a chance to enli3t volun
tarily under the Derby scheme before conscription goes Into effect.
AUSTRIANS LOSE 72,000 MEN IN 12-DAY BATTLE
MILAN, May 29, A Swiss officer returned from tho Trentino estimates the
Austrian losses during tho 12 days' battle at the rate of nearly 6000 men daily.
Other roports from Uerne Ive tho Austrian losses at G9.000 men. The Austrian left
wing, after seven days' fighting, lost more than half Its battalions. These losses
are said to have prevented the Austrian progress on the left wing, while the centre
was advancing. Austrian military circles are reported bitterly disappointed at the
failure of tho right and left wings, which compromise the ultimate success of their
offensive.
Born nt Guclph, WelUhgtoji
County, Ontario, Canada, on Sep
tember 16, 1838,
First job vas clerk in a country'
store.
Went to St. Paul, Minn., in 186$
nnd obtained position as a shipping1
clerk. t
Studied fuel nnd transportation
problems, started business of hia
own and in 1870 built n steamboat.
First to bring coal shipment to St.
Pnul.
In 1872 opened line from St. Paul
to Winnipeg.
In 1873 acquired managership of
the almost defunct St. Louis ' and
Pacific Railway.
In 1879 with partners got control
nnd reorganized road as the ,St.
Paul, Minneapolis and Mnnitoba'
Company, Became president in
1883.
In 18S0 began construction of
Northern Pacific, 6000 miles being
built by 1S03.
Organized lake and Pacific fleets.
In 1901 began his operations with
Morgan nnd other interests in the
East that, with the Great Northern
and Northern Pacific, gained control
of the existing vast railroad inter
ests. Owned a majority of tho stock of
the, following big corporations:
Great Northern Railroad, Northern
Pacific Railroad, Chicago, Burlington
and Quincy Railroad, 'Great Nor
thern Pacific Steamship Company,
Northern Steamship Company
"(Great Lakes).
, . ) .,,,..
GERMAN LOSSES TO MAY PUT AT 2,822,079
LONDON, May 29. German lesses from the beginning of tho war to May 1.
as compiled by the British Press Bureau from ofllclal German casualty lists, total
2.822,079. During April there wero 91,162.
FORD CONSIDERS SECOND PEACE PILGRIMAGE
DETROIT, May 29, Henry Ford, who organized the peace expedition which
sailed for Europe last winter, may return to Europe to renew his efforts to bring
nbout peace among the warring nations. This .possibility wus made public last
night by Theodore de Lavigne, who is in clo&e touch with Mr. Ford. Ho Bald Mrl
Ford may sail for Stockholm about June 15. Gaston Plaintiff, who was left in
charge of tho peace party when Mr, Ford was taken ill last winter, has been here
lor some time. It was said he will sail for Europe on June 1.
TELEGRAPHERS O VOTE ON NATION-WIDE STRIKE
NEW YORK, May 29, lhe question of a national strike of commercial teleg.
ruphers will be decided by the national, convention of the Commercial, Telegraphers'
Union, which will open today. The radical faction wants an Immediate strike,
While' the conservatives favor postponement, The radicals plan to call a strike
on June 6, on the eve of the national conventions in Chicago. The general executive
uourd met yesterday to decide updn recommendations. At midnight no decision
had been reached. The telegraphers assert that Western Union managers have
orders to discharge any known member of the union.
RIVERTON 5lAN DECORATED FOR BRAVERY IN FRANCE
For conspicuous braveiy under Are, Ogden Nevin, 25 years old, who has Just
returned to his home In nivertiin, N. J., was awarded the decoratiqn of the third
class of the Legion of Honor. He is a former student of the University of Penn
sylvania. He waa with tho American ambulance corps at Dunkirk oh May 8 and
helped carry the wounded fionj th- field, Indifferent to heavy fire. He was at
Verdun, where the" working 6y for three weeks averaged 19 hours.
GERMANS EXECUTE THREE SPIES AT BRUSSELS
LONDON, May 29. Ten persons have been convicted of esplonuge at Brussels,
according, to a Reuter dispatch from Amsterdam. The dispatch quotes tlje Tele
graof as authority for the statement that three persons already have been put
to death, while the sentences of Beven others were commuted to life Imprisonment,
. , 6-
JAMES GORDON BENNETT ROBBED OF JEWELS
PARIS, May 29. Gems vdued at 128.000, belonging to James qordon Bennett,
have been stolen at Nice. A band of 2Q mpn has been arrested, charged with the
theft.
1 J
FORMAL OPENING OF PANAMA CANAL THIS FALL
KINGSTON, Jamaica, May 29, Majqr qeneral Goethals, pasjln !)re yester
day, said in an interview that the formal opening pf the Panama. Canal would take
place in the fall. He would not state whether the report that he lrtttnded refignlec I
ST. PAUL, Minn., May 29. James .J,
Hin. rHllrodd'TiulIder and "financier, died" at
his home here today at 9jlo o'clock,
Mr. Hilt had been III for about ten ddya:
Every effort to save his, Ufa had been made
by a large cotorle of specialists, rushed hera
several ' days ago from Rochester, Minn.,
and New York.
Mr. Hill became unconscious two hoUrs
before ho died, "The' end came quickly."
satd nn official statement. "Mr. Hill be
came unconscious a few hours before.
There were no death agonies."
Announcement of Mr. , Hill's death was
made at his residence by Dr. Herman Biggs,
of New York.
Almost all the members of the financier's,
immediate family were at the bedside when
he expired.
The Immediate cause of Mr. Hill's death
Vina an abscess which formed on his thlgrh
some time ago, and. despite treatment .of
famous specialists, steadily became worse.
The Infection, It Is said, had spread to be
low bis kpee before death came. He suffer
ed Intensely, nn'd had periods of uncon'i
sclousness during the laBt few days'.
DI3ATH FOLLOWS OPERATION.
. Pliyslclans gave up hope for his recovery
when he failed to rally after the operation
Friday, His advanced age, 78, and the In
tense pain which he suffered from the op
eration had so weakened his general con
stitution that he was not able to withstand,
the strain.
Business conferences were held Vvlth Hill
nn his deathbed. Apparently realizing hia
condition, he called several railroad officials
Jn Sunday and told them of the disposition
he wanted made of several pending ma
tors. When they were gon he demanded
that two bank officers come. Another con
ference was held,
Despite his wonderful vitality the opera
tion was serious. Special trains were rushed
to St. Paul today. One heavy train was
run In record-breaking time from Chicaga
to carry two' ounces of a peculiar sedative
Hill's specialists suggested.
Or. W. J- Mayo, Dr. Charles Mayo, ar4
two other surgeons from Rochester, Minn.,
were assisted In the operations by Dr. 4.
S. Gllfullen, Hill's family physician, and
Dr. Herman Biggs. State Health CommI
stoner of New York, Although it was eaJd
yesterday Biggs waa being rushed here by
special train It became known he had beea
in the Hill mansion since Friday
RELATIVES AT BEDSIDE-
Rushed hefe by a special train Mrs, Sara?
uel Hill, of Washington, hurried into th
death chamber Just In time to graip ISi"
hand of her dying father.
Mrs. A. M. Beard, New York. U the tinly
Child who did not get here before the eo4
came. Shewrived half ail hour after the
magnate's death.
At the hedslde. were all of the pther chll-.
dren apd widow Mrs. Hill collapsed and
Is in an extremely nervous condition.
The children a'r: James W Hill. New
York ; Mrs. George T. Slade, St Paul ; Uk
Egll Boeekroann. St, Paul; Walter HilJ,
Hallodc. Mlun-i Mrs. Michael tiavin, New
York, and Miss Clara Hill and Lnuse IMt
who lived at home with their father, .ainf
Mrs. Samuel Hill, of Washington,; Mrs. A.
M Beard, New York,
Walter Hill aro from a sittH ht4 t
come to the bedside of hla father
The entire city of St Paul lmrue4M4lw
began preparation to honor the ronwy pif
Hill. The Northwest- cortsWertnr ty ja
gteatett ma, waj fdy to t ffWufyt i
mpvortel ftrvmaimf M w HttttnlK Mi
vtatiitf. ?
7, Str. TtaMM J UUWgp, vter
