3)"" ILcH ' HTtt
"Farmeir
VOL. 52 NO. 128
BRIDGEPORT, CONN.,1 MONDA1T, MAY 29, 191S
PRICE TWO CENTS
uAuJiiulr'Lr DUbuLRil U LsLUJ lyJuvJ UlPiD vmiMW UUiJUU LiJ u
'HfK5 ' I MiB CTflTffl CONNECTICUT CO, JnwrvqftMn ?n7 APR A HTT f?fiTlR F A PinER
cJUsn sJJo uUEilLtLp liUP ll lP ljg REMOVE ITS iuulbuu W.iSilAiiJiiirAuu U IrmJlni LE)ZAiuuLatsLal
IILMT: Ull MftTRt pmcEs july-15 MEOT 1W TC3BD871E
' ' " i Officials of Trollev Coruora- h ' " - T : - i
n r?3? n1- nF tm. .-n m-, T memorial day in Bridgeport
IIIIIill'VV liii II fci I mm II If fl S lAil iiwSo,ix ; .
Ei tl t S i 1 . v f El II Fill ITI S3 II 1 3 JEW 2 m,z I . ! . -
. .7'- -
Founder of Northern Pacific
ly Line- Succumbs After
Long Illness Relapse
During Night is Followed
, By Rapid Sinking Spell.
l,lember3 of Family at Bed-side
When End Came at
9:30 O'clock Today Last
i Letter to Received
' Five Minutes Ajfter Death.
St. Paul, May 29 -Jfcmes :. J.
:Hill, railroad builder, capitalist
and most widely known figure
iof the northwest, died at ,his
Summit Avenue residence at
"9 :30 q'clock this morning as the
! result of an infection due to
'bowel trouble. v '
Mr. Hill was unconscious for
. : nearly twelve hours before, he
died. Dr. Herman Biggs of
New. York, arid Dr. Stanley
i Seager,of Rochester, Minn., to-
gether. with members" of the
i immediateHill family, were at
Ithe bedside at the end. '
' Mr. Hill's personal secretary M. R.
I Brown, made the announcement of. nia
employer's demise to waiting news
paper "Sorrespondents at the Hill, res
idence. His statement was made ver
bally with the intimation that a writ
ten bulletin, might be Issued later.
' Question regarding a date . for
obsequies, Mr. Brown said that no ar
rangements had been: discusaeVi. .
been in the habit of"' 'insisting, bo
to his friends and to the public that
he was not actively engaged in busi
ness. Just how ( active he was during
the . last two- years of is life can be
judged only by little evidences of his
master .hand in questions affecting
the Great, Northern railroad and ! the
First National bank of St.-PauU. and
by, three outstanding accomplishments
in which his will and .genius asserted
themselves. . ' ' "
- From a world Viewpoint, it would
be-hard to say whether his staunch
support of the Belgian people, follow
ing the Invasion of the Germans or the
part played in,, the negotiations for the
$500,000,000 loan- to the allied. ; gov
ernments is the more Important- .
From the time the work of succor
i Ing the Belgians Tjegan Mr. Hill took
! a aeding part in, the movement. A It
J will probably nefer ; be known how
much money he sent to King Albert,
'an old personal friend, and- how much
he induced others to send.
His place as an international figure
was .never more prominently display
ed than when the representatives of
the .allies came to New York in .quest
. of a huge loan. One of the first men
to 'be sent for, 'by J." P. Morgan was
Mr. Hill, and4 his assurance that he
and the people of the northwest were
prepared to do their share in taking
up the foreign bonds is believed' to
j have contributed largely to the success
of the negotiations. ', . .
After , the relapse 0t yesterday, the
financier failed rapidly. All the. mem
bers of his family were at the bed
side with the exception of Mrs." M.
Beard, of New Tork, a daughter. She
was expected to arrive tonight. James
: N. Hill, of New York, and Mrs. Sam
el Kill,, ot Washington, arrived early
today. '
- "My father slept most of . the
night," Louis W. Hill said. Finally
at :45 a. m., Mr- Brown, Mr. Hill's
, confidentially secretary, came out and
1 said to the newspaper reporters:
"Mr. Hill died quietly, at 9:30." '
The last letter sent to Mr. HiU was
. received five minutes after . he died.
It was from United States Judge San
born and was sent by a special me
seneer.
G. A. McPherson, an old friend, who
iwatched with the family through the
(night, left the Hill residence at 9:30
la. m. - , i t
Jus- as Mr. Hill was dying, two Ut
tVe Sisters of the Poor approached the
! home.. They extended their sympathy
and departed.. . . .,
-One oC the first to leave the house
was John T. Toomey, jvir. ui s con-,
ildentlal business agent and associate
for yea.rs. . He was quickly followed
by Ralpe Budge, assistant to Louis W.
Hill, president of the Great Northern
Railroad, - ands one of the younger
members of Mr. Hill's railroad family.
L. W. Hill left the House with the
jRev. Thomas J. Gibbons, vicar general
: of the St. ! Paul archdiocese. t . ..
James J. lill discovered "the bread-
basket of the world" in the Great
Northwest; he led in its development
from a wilderness into what now com
prises six wealthy states dotted, with
(Continued on Page 7.)
EBENEZER HILL'S
FACTORY TO BE
SCENE OF PROBE
Machinists Hear Employes
Are Working 10 Hours a
Day oiif Government Job. s
Investlgaon of "a complaint from
Norwalk , that men employed1, on a
government job - at the Norwalk Iron
works, controlled by E. J. Hill, con
gressman from the -Fourth district, are
working 10 hours will be made by the
International Association of Machin
ists. -- f .
George ) J. powen, business agent
of Local No. 30,Nsaid this morning:.
"It has come to our attention that
men In one department of the, faetory
are working ' 10 5 hours on a govern
ment dob. Whereas the eight hour ay
is -required. i We don't know whether
or not this is true, but if it is, it will
be - stopped. We shall make an in
vestigation immediately." v
The machinists have no local union
in Norwajk and the Bridgeport local.
No. 30, has .been assigned to take car a
of the case. . , . - '
MACHINISTS TO
PROCURE HOME
FOR THE UNION
7
Large Enough Club Rooms
Not Available, jThey Must,
Purchase Building.
' . . . - -
Because there is no available hal
in Bridgeport large enough to house
the members of the Machinists' union
for their i meetings, , the two - Bridge
port locals have made preparations to
have a. home of their own.
, At the last meeting of Local No. 30
a committee' of 10 was appointed to
seek' an 'available building, whichwill
be purchased is possible. At s the
meeting of the Remington local
Thursday evening, an assistant com
mittee will be appointed. ' ,
It is expected the, new home will
costrin the neighborhood of $6Q,000.
Thelocals expected to be in it before
the end of the summer. '
. The Machinists' union has made
tremendous increases in membership
for eight or nine months, the officers
have been seeking a hall large enough
for club rooms and meetings. Failing
to find, one, they have decided to ac
quire a home of their own.
CUTTER H10HAWK
RUNS ASHORE ON
BARTLETT'S REEF
v I
New London, May 29 The coast
guard cutter Mohawk grounded on
the shoals just inside the Bartlett's
Reef lightship . at 9:30 o'clock this
morping while bound from New York
to this port and at the last report
was hard . and fast seven miles , out
side New London harbor. The Mo
hawk was ordered to this port with
several officers on board who were
to attend the coast guard reunion be
eing held at the coastguard academy
at Fort Trumbull today and Tuesday.
The heavy fog that - enveloped the
harbor this morning made naviga
tion hazardous and the fact that the
fog signal on Bartlett Lightship could
not be , heard by . the pilot of the
steamer is held responsible for the
mishap. .
After the ship struck the command
ilig officer ordered calls for help sent
out and the coastguard . cutters An
droscoggin and Itasca which were in
this harbor, submarine tender Bush
nell and TJ. S. S. Tucker hurried to the
assistance of the stranded craft. With
the arrival of these . vessels -an at
tempt was made to haul the Mohawk
into deep water- but she was stuck
hard and 'fast. As the steamer was in
no special danger and was not dam
aged perceptibly by lier- mishap 11
was decided to wait, until high watet
"tonight befor making- any 1 further
attempt to float the craft.
WEATHER FORECAST
Partly dowdy tonight: Tneaday,
showers; moderate shl f ting winds.
OUTGREW PRESENT
QUARTERS LONG AGO
Adopt New Plan For Indi-
eating Destination of x
, -v Cars Ln Bridgeport.
The Connecticut Co. will move its
offices on July 15. . For this purpose
the, Logan 'brothers building at Mid
dle and Congress streets, has been
leased for a term of years above the
store floors. . The building will offer
four full floors for the' administrative
business of the company, which will
Include moving . present offices from
the Connecticut car barns- in Con
gress street, the Newfieldl building
and the trolley express . buUding in
Water istreet, ,
. In the new building, which will be
remodeled especially for the purposes
of "the Connecticut Co., will contain
after Jufy 15 these offices: General
manager, superintendent, chief motor-man
and conductor, with the in
struction school maintained for car
operatives, the cashier's department,
line department, claim . department,
trolley express department and trol
ley express auditors' department''
The Water street - express station
will be enlarged for the handling
of larger quantities of express in
transit, while the operating; depart
ment will hove , much larger car ac
commodation in.!; the Congress street
barns. " , '" , -
Rapid progress is being made today
in the paint shops of the Connecticut
Co. on signs designed to give greater
range of vision - to prospective pas
sengers on cars for various destina
tions. The company will adopt v the
Western method ofindicating destina
tion on approaching cars. 1 ,
This method retains the present
system of metal sign hung upon the
front of the car but adds an extreniely
large heavy letter underlaid beneath:
the smaller lettering now' -in vogue.
The present black background sign
will he retained, a large letter of the
alphabet theoretically visible for a
distance of about four blocks to the
normal eye is painted in red as high
and broad as possible , on ths- signs,
after which the common white let
tering is painted over and across thg
larger red letter. , k
Each route is designated by one let
ter, now running as far as "R" on the
alphabet including the "J" route
which will be the Barnum avenue
State street line. -. v
It is expected that all the signs will
be completed within a week, during
which time the Connecticut Co. will
prepare for public distribution signs
and pamphlets giving the routing to
the public.
k An illustration taken from the new
route sheet of the company, which fol
lows, is: Route A. North and South
Main street Jine. The; passenger wait
ing for a car "at Main street anfl Fair
field avenue will fldst observe a large
red letter "A" "in the J distance. ' He
will "know from information or exper
ience that this car if south-bound.will
travel as far as Seaside park and it
aaorth-bound; as far as Wentwortli
street. As the car approacnes ne win
distinguish in smaller white lettering
the isual destination as at present
indicated on the signs.
WON'T CHARGE
PAPP WOiAN
WITHJ4URDER
State's Attorney Recom
mends Prosecution For
Manslaughter Instead.
Mary Papp,- the . young bride who
has been held in the county jail on the
charge of murdering , her husband,
Nicholas Papp, while 1 the latter was
at work in a West End factory, had
the charge against her changed from
murder to manslaughter by order of
Judge Curtis vof the criminal superior
court this morning.
This action was taken upon the
recommendation of State's Attorn ej
Cummings. He said he had been in
formed that the woman was soon to
become a mother and he thought it
advisable to give her a chance to get
bail. After looking over the evi
dence he thought manslaughter was
probably the crime of which she is
guilty. Judge Curtis ordered a bench
warrant issued for Mrs. Papp on the
manslaughter charge. Her , bonds
were fixed at $5.6.00.
NO FARMER TUESDAY
, In accordance with its custom. The
Farmer will not publish 'tomorrow.
Memorial Cay.
- -
8 a. m. Details of Grand Army 'men and Sons qf
Veterans at all cemeteries place flowers on soldiers'
graves. v , 1
8 a. m.-r-Steamer Naiigatuck leaves Rosedale dock ex
cursion to New York. N
10 a. m. Amateur baseball at 'Seaside and other
(parks. ' , N
.'1f.1R a ni'Riisphiill.
Newfield park. v " . .
i -2 p. m. Parade of veterans, military and patriotic
societies vv ' '. " . .-..
3:15 p. im. Exercises at Soldiers' monument at Sea
side park. 'Sunset gun and flag ceremony. . V ; .
6 p. m. Dinner to veterans in Masonic temple, to
other patriotic societies at Grand Army and Odd Fellow's
iialls. , , . ',
8:30 p. iri. Fireworks at Newfield park.
Open house atl all yacht clubs as they go in commis
si)n. Dinner and dance at Black Rock Yacht club.
ISGOWJ!' LOKO-SOUilil
CORDS OF
i
The dreams that ; most small boys
with Imaginations have of some ' day
enacting the lucky role in a treasure
digging, party came true for three
Bridgeport youngsters yesterday, but
their . period, of wealth- was cut short.
Charles Hawman 01,297 South ave
nue, Matthew Skane and Donalji Ben
nett of Warren street, all 1 2 years old,
were walking along Broad streej yes
terday" afternoon discussing Treasure
Island. Each had his own opinion as
to where treasure could be found, and
each had his own ideas as to what
he'd do with a. few million in doub
loons when he found it.
" Matthew and Donald were arguing
over the choicest site for a rich man's
castle when Charles stopped them and
whispered: "Look!" -,
i He pointed at the southwest corner
tof the North Congregational church,
which is being demolished. Little but
the front, of the building remains.
tin a projection of the base of the
building, close to the iron f enpe on
Broad street, a stone had. been partly
dislodged. Sticking out of masonry
dust was a shiny, attractive piece, of
metal. . . v
' No cops were around. The boys
climbed through a hole in the fence,
found a workman's tool and gouged
at the hole. Three "Gees!" were
whispered when young Hawmon pull
ed fortha metal box, about a foot
long and sevent inches wide.
"Shake it.", said Matthew, and
Hawman shook. , Something jingled
jnside.
The boys were aghast. One of them
took the box, Jammed it into the cover
and the lid sprang open. Under books
and papers was a pile or silver ana
Uilla, and the box gave forth a most
musty smell.
With the treasure under one's coat,
and the others selecting a route least
infested by cops, the boys went t6 the
U
JUDGE JAILS PERSISTENT BUT
UNWANTED SWAIN WHO CLIMBED
IN TRANSOM OF HIS LADY LOVE
In vain has John Church of 961
Main street prosecuted his courtship
for five years for the hand of Mrs.
Mary. Greenwood, of 47 Myrtle ave
nue, according to his own admission
in' the 'city "court this Sjorning, where
he was tried on the charge of breach
of peace. His ardor for her love has
not been at all diminished by the fact
that on a number of occasions he
has faced the court as a result of
forcibly entering Mrs. Greenwood's
home. .
Church was arresteoV yesterday by
Policeman Alexander Coughlin on the
complaint of Mrs. Greenwood. She
stated that when he had come to the
house and found the door locked, he
climbed through the transom and in
that manne rgained admittance. Ac
cording to the testimony of the ob
ject of his heart's desire, Church has
not the slightest chance as Ishe has
no use for him. -
But, Church on the witness stand
said "I love her and like her yet,"
while telling of the rebuffs that he
has met in his desire to win the love
of Mrs. Greenwood Denied admit
tance to the house the has forced the
door when it was locked and has been
brought before the court on her com
plaint several times. . He states that
. N ' .
News TTa.vPTi vs. T5ridoprort
OLiSCEHGP
home of Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Haw
man on South avenue. Young Haw
man's parents were not' at home and
the trio entered a room, drew the
shades and turned on a light. . .
When Mr. and Mrs. Hawman returned-
about 4 o'clock they found the
boys with eyes big and faces flushed
pawing over the contents of the box.
One look, at the papers and a few
questions convinced Mr. Hawman. He
shattered the dreams of the boys by
taking, the box under his arm and
walking off -vith it. -
Mr. Hawman went to the X. M. C.
A. where he procured information con
cerning the building committee of the
new United church. Then he delivered
the box to Wilber Smith, chairman of
that committee.
It was learned that the box was
prized more by the committee than
could be estimated. NFor days they
have been watching the destruction of
the church building but couldn't lo
cate;, the records which were reputed
to bevlodged somewfcere in the mason
work. No signs had been found by
the wreckers -that would indicate the
position of the box, and the commit
tee began to believe they didn't exist.
Examination of the contents showed
all the old records of . the Congrega
tional church, the history of which
goes back to .65. These were in a
sealed package. , Two dollars ' in old
bills issued by a Connecticut bank,
and $1.91 in silver and -a 1-2 cent piece
of copper of the coinage prevalent in
1850 were found. There was a list of
contributors to the building of the
churchf which was dedicated April 11,
1850. Fifteen hundred ' dollars led off
the list of donations. Half a . dozen
testaments and' prayer books, tariff
sheets of the New York & A-fbany rail
road, railroad tickets and Connecticut
state registers' and current newspapers
were in the box. It was made , of tin,
and copper-lined. Everything was( in
an excellent state of preservation.
someone else has appeared upon the
scene' and stolen her love.
Judge Bartlett in asking Church if
he intended remaining away from the
house stated that he could spend- the
next 15 days in Jail in order to let his
ardor cool and be reminded , that he
should not continues his efforts to
win Mrs. Greenwood's heart' and
hand. .
Major Flynn As Orator
At Great Harrington's
Memorial Day Program
Major William Flynn will be the
orator at the Memorial Day exercises
in Grea Barrington, Mass., on Tues
day afternoon. The program, which
will be given in the beautiful town
hall, will be under the direction of
the Grand Army of the Republic and
the Son of "Veterans.
Major Flynn formerly lived In
Great Barrington, and his old-time
friends there are planning a warm
welcome for him.
.
i Lieut. Thaw lias arrived in Paris on
a furlough to recover from wounds
sustained Ayheh he shot down his se
cond enemy aeroplane. -
Bonds Fixed at $6,000 For Former Banker And at!
$1,000 For Officer of Hungarian Society ,
Judge Curtis Issues Bench Warrants, Follow
ing Presentations By State's Attorney Cum
mings Private Banking Systems in State De
nounced By Prosecutor Who ' Urges New
' Legislation to Prevent Similar Financial
Disasters.
On 106 counts charging him with misappropriating abou
$115,000 from the funds of Burr & Knapp, a bench warrant was
issued this morning for the arrest of Herbert M. Knapp, who
was president of the ill-fated banking firm.-
Judge Curtis of the criminal superior court issued the war
rant after a special session of the court had been called at the re
quest of State's Attorney Homer S. Cummings of Stamford.
- A second bench wart s.nt was also issued for Kriapp and Sol-'
omon Lavozky, "who are jointly charged with having misappro-!
priated $4,033.34 from the funds of the Hungarian Sick Benefit
Societies Confederation of this city. . w 1
Judge Curtis fixed Knapp's bonds at $6,000 and Lavozky' sl
at $1,000. The warrants were given at- once to Deputy Sheriff;
Cunningham and he set out to serve them.
Sheriff Cunningham located Knapp in his office and served
papers on him this morning. Knapp displayed no surprise at his
arrest. - He got intp communication with friends and was soon
released on bail furnished by Medical Examiner and 'Mrs. S. M.
Garlick. ' ' -
V Thefneriff was unable, vto locata Lavozky although he,
searched in several West End haunts where the man was likely
to be found. . -
The action today was not a com
plete surprise to depositors and oth
ers interested .in. th Burr & Knapp
failure. It was told exclusively in
The Firmer ' several weeks ago that
the state's attorney- was contemplat
ing Issuing a warrant for Knapp.
It had been known' that Attorney
S. D. Bowers of this city and several
expert accountants were examining
the bank's books and records. This
workiy required considerable time , but
it was necessary to have all the facts
at hand before 'warrants could be
asked for. ' 1
In asking for ' the warrants the
state's attorney said to the court, "For
some months past I have been con
ducting an investigation into the af
fairs of the banking firm of Burr &
Knapp. This investigation has in
volved the employment of expert ac
countants, examinations of the books
of the. bank and careful reading of
such correspondence as was available.
examination of many witnesses' and
sundry collateral inquries. -
"Although an enormous amount of
labor""" has already been' expended in
this work the investigation has not
yet been completed, y It has progressed
far enough, however, to- Justify me in
asking your honor for a bench war-
rrant for the arrest of Herbert M.
Knapp for misappropriations of funds
and securities of many, different per
sons, estates and organizations as de
scribed in detain In the complaint and
Information which I submit to your
Honor. . 1
' "I have set .'forth 105 different
criminal acts in as many differently
counts and the total amount misap
propriated aggregates $110,000. I also
ask your Honor for a bench warrant
for the arrest of Herbert , M. Knapp
and Solomarr Lavozky who are jointly
informed against for misappropriating
funds of the Hungarian Sick Benefit
Societies' Confederation, amounting to
$4,033.34."
When asked for a statement after
court adjourned Mr. Cummings said,
"It would 'not be proper for me to
discuss,-, in advance of the trial, the
details of the case or indeed to com
ment on : its merits in any way. My
action speaks f 6$ itself and the scan
MAEL ESPOSITO, AGED 12, A
GOES ON "SPREE" AND BREAKS
INTO NORTH END SCH00LI1QUSE.
Admitting to Captain John H. Re
gan that he did not know what he
was doing Saturday when he broke in
to the Grand street school after drink
ing wine and beer, 12 year , old Mi
chael Ksposito, who lives on Com-.
mercial street was locked up this
morning for his escapade.
Michael, who Is a pupil at Colum
bus school, was taken into custody
this morning by Motorcycle Policeman
Qorgas who was summoned to the
school. He had admitted breaking in
to the school but could give no rea
son for his action. When taken be
fore the captain at headquarters, Mi
chael began crying, but after quieting.
was able to talk intelligently. He
stated that has father had been pre
paring some beer and wine in the
kitchen of his home and that while
dalous features of the Burr & Knapp;
failure are' .already pretty well un
derstood by tie press and public.
"1 would say, however, that it
seems to me that the time has coma
when some adequate, check should be
placed by legislative regulation on
that form tof Irresponsible, recklessi
and criminal 'private banking, wliich!
so often leads to gross frauds upon'
the public and serious and undeserv-i
ed loss to innocent people.
i The failure of Burr & Knapp inj
September, 1915, was one of the big-i
gest sensations this city ever experl-j
enced. The bank had a large numberj
of depositors and it did an extensive!
business in mortgages. After the,'
failure many persons of limited means;
found themselves in . possession ofj
worthless mortgages.
After Attorney "John , C. Chamber-i
1 t n . V T (- ; t
lain wLO uautcM u uoicc tjy iclcic in
Bankruptcy John W.i Banks a number
of hearings were held in the bank
ruptcy court. One of , the reports;
made showed that for 11 and one half
years; the firm did business at a loss'
of $27,431.09 a year, making a total,
loss of ; $315,457.56. During thr
period the partners drew salaries atj
an average of $16,986.03 a year.
Those who participated in the sal-
ary drawing were the late Ebenezerj
Burr in -1903 and then his widow.i
Mary H. Burr, who received a totas
of $61,439.01; H. M. Knapp, who goti
$82,707 "and Mrs. Knapp; Who waa
paid $34,785.34.
The settlement of the estateis stiTJ
pending in the bankruptcy court aa
there is a dispute involving certain,
securities claimed by the First,i
Bridgeport National bank. It prob-i
ably will be a year at; least before this
litigation can 'be tried in the courts.'
Some .'time .ago . Knapp asked to aj
discharged from bankruptcy but vari
ous creditors opposed his petition and;
Referee Banks has taken no action.
In' the matter of the Hungarian so
ciety funds, in which Knapp is said;
to have1 been involved with one of
the officers of the society, it is claimed;
that certain money deposited with.
Burr & Knapp to be sent by draft t
Hungary, was deposited in the priyat
account of Burr & Knapp.
the father and the other members of
the family were in another part of
the house, he helped himself to the
beverages. .
While on his "spree," Michael went
to the Grand street school and after,
breaking a window, gained admit
tance. He did not take anything he
declared., He admitted that he had
the crfarge o throwing stones at pas-,-sersby.
- His case was nolled but ha
states that he was not placed on pro
bation.' As he was being led to a
cell, Michael cried loudly and ex
claimed that if the officers would al
low him his liberty, he would behave
tn the future.
CJarryinig several hundred marines,
to reinforce the first landing party,
a United States cruiser arrived at
Santo Xomiigo. , . , i
