1
7
ALBUQUERQUE MORNING JOURNAL,
CITY
EDITION
CITY
EDITION
TMIItTY.SttVKNTJI V3AK.
till,. CI.. A".
STATE ADJUTAN
T
GENERAL CALLS
1 AT LEAST
300 SOLDIERS
Albuquerque, New Mexico, Monday, May 29, 1916.
Dally hy Carrier or Mull. twc
a Month. Single Copies, b
THE WEATHER
Herring Issues Earnest Ap
peal Through Journal for
Men to Defend Border of
New Mexico,
NUMBER IS NECESSARY
FOR FEDERAL MUSTER
Officers Regard Situation as
Grave; More Forces Needed
to Make Adeqiuie Protec
tion Possible,
(Hy M. 1a Vox.)
Columbus, May It. From Denting,
the hustling and entirely peaceful lit
tle city ff 3,600, to" Columbus,, the
headquarters of warlike preparation
and of recent war, is only a thirty-three-mile
spin over fairly Rood road.
W. i'. Southard, president of the state
fair hoard; J. A. Shepard, manager of
the electric light plant, and myself, all
as guestd of lid ward I Foulks, of the
IHmiing National bank, made the run
In less than two bourn, although de
layed nearly half of the time by ma
chine trouble. Not less than a dozen
automobile make the trip each (lay.
Columbus Is now the center of Inter
est for all the southwest.
New Mexico Guardsmen.
There are about 1,000 New .Mexico
Kuardsmrn in camp, and they are u
fine looking body of men. F.ut there
must be fully 300 more recruits if the
refitment is to be mustered In. Khould
that matter of recruits' not be forth- i
coming, there will be only two hat?
talions of New Mexico guardsmen on
the border, or elnewhe.ro.
Gen. Harry T. Herring, who has
just returned from a conference with
General Funston at Sun Antonio, Tex.,
handed me the following' (statement:
General Herring's Appeal.
"To the Fditor of the Albmpienpie
Morning Journal.
"From present indications It ap
pears that uv will lose, oxer- 300 men
)l,r reason of rejection for plixstcal
defects by the federal medical unthor-itl'-M.
This. t the uninitiated, , might
seeni to he too great n, itcivenlugo of
)is, but when considered it) the llRht
"f tlic fact tliat the recruiting; ufffeeM
f the 1'nlted Slates army are reject
Ins approximately 7." mt cent of the
applicant for enlistment, tve are far
ing very well. New Mexico maintain.
T11K WEATIIEIt KHtKCAST.
Denver, , Colo., May 28. New Mex
ico: .Monday and Tuesday generally
tair, not much change in temperature,
UK.W WKATIIKU KEPORT.
.
ror txxenty-rour hours, ending tit
6 P. m. yesterday;
.Maximum. S4 degrees, minimum,
38 decrees. range, 4(i degrees; at 6
P. m. yesterday 73 decrees: clear,
They are burning was'.o
CARRANCiSTAS
BAND
Ef
T CHIEFS,
never go out
all tho lime,
The cooking establishments and
mess halls are screened perfectly and
flies have been exterminated. It Is a
flyless, Insectless camp. This I lit
erally true. There Is no place where
file can breed. They are not here.
Iiathlng Compulsory.
By the time the tents were up two
lon bath houses had been construct
ed and every man in camp, whether
he thinks he needs it or not, takes a
bath every day. The same cleanliness
Is observed with the clothing and tho
bedding of the soldiers, Nothing is nl
lowi'd to grow stale.
lWtl It lU-j1d.
Tho national guardsmen are drilled
every d;,y, and then drilled some
more. They are drilled by snuad, by
company, by battalion, by regiment.
They are drilled against the day, ex
pected by every officer here, when
they u-ui i)P called upon to know what
"hiklnK" over the hot sands of Mex
ico means against the day when
thorough discipline may make the dif
ference between victory and defeat.
f am betraying no confidence when
I say that every principal officer
here, both regular and national
guard, believes that tho time is com
ing, and quickly, when war with the I
whole of the Mexican people Is inev
itable. Such information as comes
from Pershing's forces in Mexico all
tends in that general direction. The
pacific reports from Washington are
not credited here, when contrasted
with the other sort of reports which
come to the border by every truck
train.
Guardsmen Want to Fight.
However peaceful the guardsmen
may have felt when they left home,
since they came here and fully ac
quainted themselves with the detailsil
of the Villa raid, they all want to
fight, probably the Spanish-American
guardsmen more than the Anglo
Americans. The evidences of the raid
are too plentiful, the stories of the
atrocities too numerous not to pro
voke s general desire for il greater
measure of vengeance than has been
exacted so far.
Mexican I0!--ww Heavy.
The number of raiders killed at Co
lumbus beyond doubt Is far greater
than has been reported. The first
jstory placed the number at twenty-
seven, the number of bodies burned
lust outside of Columbus. . . .
Km some reason, the Anteiicnw of
ficers have not been willing for the
real facts to be published, possibly
because no prisoners were taken that
night, and no wounded men cup-
TREVINO HEARS
Important Papers, Incriminat
ing Villista Sympathizers,
Are Also Seized by Gen
eral's Men,
PANCH0"S COLONEL
AMONG CAPTIVES
Marauders Tried to Force
Wealthy Ranch Owner to
Pay 10,000 Pesos Just Be
fore Capture,
tBV MONIN JOURNAL aPaciAL I AAaiQ WINI
Chihuahua City, Mex., Mav SS.
Four bandit leaders. Including Juan J.
('astro, a former Villislu colon, 1, and
Colonel Chavez, who have operated
largely In Durango, have been cap
tured and Imprisoned in Torreon, ac
cording to reports today to t.Scn. Ja
cinto Treviito, military commander of
northern .Mexico. Dispatches from
General Samuel de los Santos asked
for orders as to their disposition,
Granted .'nitiestjr.
The prisoners, whom some Ameri
can newspapers recently reported to
be revolting Carraticlsta, officers, were
members of the Cantito Reyes faction
and were granted amnesty in Torreon
il short tijne ago. After leaving Tor
reon they went directly to ihe Hacien
da llortnlguero, and attempted to
force lis owner, Carlos Gonzalez, Jr.,
one of the' wealthiest men in the La-
guna district to pay ten thousand pe
sos. Their capture followed.
rniM'iN seized.
An engagement with the .lose Chav
ez band of Villistas, near F.l Fspajo
Was reported today from Santa llosa
11a. by Col. Murcial Lopez. Colonel
Lopez, said he had captured a captain
and Important papers which incrimi
nated Villa .sympathizers in the dis
trict, as the result of which a num
ber of persons have been arrested.
Chavez, himself, succeeded In escap
ing with ten mounted men, the re
mainder of his command fleeing to-
300 Patriotic New Mexicans
Needed at State Border at Once
Tim lournal I- In rtvolpi of the follow iiu telegram from
lion. II. (). r.iiisnii,, who is now at Columbus: ,
"Th New Mexico National Guard Is short ;tlM, men In
order to liitisler into scrxlco a New Mexico regiment. To fall
to Iwlng up Hie- ipioia iioTssury for n full regiment would lie
ft disgrace to the state mill il silgina thai New Mexico can ill
afford to h, burdened hHI). Tln patriotism of our stale is
now being vpitircly put tt tho lest anil future history will
record the facts us they exist. The enlistment is for two
yettr. Tin. regiment may possibly 1m- inu-fcrcd our xvilliiii u
few months. They will he mustered inio service immediate,
ly. I'nlcss the ncressary recruits ait, immediately raistsl New
Mexico will lose Us lilcntilj anil the companies will be inernl
liuilcr the colors of another slato.
" Vln order to uphold III,, honor of New Mexico I urge you
to av'ivcly ami promptly take sucli steps as will secure us
many recruit. lis hissIIic from your county. Notify General
Herring or Colonel Ahltott til, Columbus, txho Mill furnish
transportation. Have exumliialloii by local phv-h-tan lor ma
jor defects. Send recruits to Columbus as many at u time
lis you cun mid us often its Is possible.
"It Is the plain duty of every citlcn (o render immediate
active B-ssistuius'. Sec nil frlcttiU and obialn action. If xve
nro for genuine prepaiclncss c must stand up unl he
untc(."
There is nothing to he said Hint tvlll mid io the force of Mr. lur.
sunl'ri npixiil to the patrioUsm of the (M-oplu of Nixv .Mcxlisi. Tlie
time for argiiment liu.s passed. The time for union Is at hand.
'loniorrow Is Decoration day the tiny when the jx-ople of the i-n.
lire nation xvlll nolle in doing honor to the heroic men xxlio gave
lliclr lives that their country tniuhl be free. Ii Is a tiny to Inspire hi
trlolisni in the breast of every man ho calls hinr-olt' an American
citizen.
Is tho spirit which animated llio men xxlmse graxes xxtll he deiS)
rated tomorrow dead.1 Are the young men of today less heroic
less willing to serve their country than were their fathers?
Tins Journal diav, imt hcllexe that this is the cuxo. Couriilcnt that
American patriotism is Hl as high a sliindai'd today us at any time in
the history of the republic, anil that die people of New Mexico lire mi1.
oml to none in the I idled states in hue (siuntrv, the Journal calls
iiou ixsiple of excry city, toit and xillage in the state to nvake
I tor oral loo day an iHs-asiou tor practical iwtrlotisni by rccriiiting the
First regiment or (he New Mexico nalloiial guard up to lis full
strength.
There tvlll bo a mass meeting In Alumiucrqiic tomorrow night at
the corner of Second street and Central avenue, xxhlch tvlll Isi ad
dressed hy a liuiuhcr of pi eminent speakers. It w ill he in charge of
Col. 1. K. It. Sellers. Don't c.ime to that muss meeting unless yon
arc filled with (he spirit of Diss radon ,y and uro prepared to prove
your patriotism lu a practical in-inner. Von may not la able to cn
linl. yourself, but you (t rtalnly uix able to use your influence to get
others to enlist. If you intend iliui, mnss' meeting, conn, txlih the de.
termination to do soinelhlng to uphold Ihe honor nt your stale and
your niitloii. Come prepared to shotv your Anicriciuiisiii.
Let every cllj and toxxn in Next Mexico take the same or n simi
lar met hod of observing Decoration day, let, II not lie said Hint the
tribute that xxe pay to the fallen heroes of the past is lull an empty
mis'kery. I.ct us show that xve have it lu us to emulate their glor
ious deeds that the example of valor uiul devotion to country that
they set Is not loM nsin their descendants.
U't this Divsiration day he one thai our children tvlll he proud
to rcutcmlH't' for the pint that tve took in It.
CHAIRMAN
O.PJEETI
S
HINT OF
PUNKS
Ciiatles D, Hilles Says Plat
! form Will Be Brief and Wil
i Deal Only With Vital Qiies
j tions,
AMERICANISM AND
' DEFENSE INCLUDED
GERMANS PIERCE
ENEMY S
FRONT
CHAMPAGNE
BEATEN IN EAST
French Capture Mine' Craters;'
Russians Stop Teuton Of
fensive; Austrians Are Con
tinuing Drive,
Document Will Also Contain
! Declaration as to Merchant
Marine; Difference Over
Suffrage,
DR. WAITE SAYS iSAYS SOCIETY
tvird the hills afoot, according, to the j
dispatches.
Another Hand Pursued.
Colonel I.opcz also reported dis-
j patching- a column to Kio Florida to I
under j co-operate with the command ,f Gen
i
HE HAS 0 WISH
IS DOOMED 0
tured, except the seven, now
sentence of death, picked up some j Ignacio Kanios in rounding up a small
i had I band of Villistas, including Villa's
hours after the fury of the fight
worn off.
Stories coming out of Mexico
of about
say
S00
fl r,.olM,f.l f Infanlrv uiwi n. but terv , V 11 la S actual lOSS, OUt
(if ,,(illerv vet util, it,., loss of 300 ! men who were In or near Columtius,
men it xvlll ho iniKssihlo under thcj'was
regulations to nmstiir into federal sT
viiv these organlaiions, consequently
we nn calling upon the citizens of
New Mexico who are eligible to serve
to enlist with mm and protect our prrs
ettt organizations. To do so it will be
Siercssary to have at lc-t 300 nble
Isslled men enlist within the next few
Oay. Wo must lmve at least a full
feglmeiit and buttery to properly pro
tect the iKirder of our own state;
"While it may not lie generally un
derstood, tve are at present iMHiully
tinder tvar toiulitions and are protect
ing our own borders hh wetl as the
haso of General I'ersliiiiR's Hue of
communications.
"1 have lieon advisxl tlmt we haiv
"ot hn-n retx-lving more recruits on
"ccnini of the fact tiiat most jK-ople
Miove we are down lieiv on the hor
for temiKjiarv period on In
nrurtion. lirrsonally, I do not bci
'te to state tliat in my opinion the
Nituitiion jf, most grave and our state
Is in as gneat need of protertlon iw at
ny tJme In the past few yer
"I hope that yon will he able to prc
wnt tlm conditions as they actually
exist to the people of tho state In such
manner as to niake them rcallzti the
'Mousnt of onr Ksitiou, and to
wake them understand that If they
desire, a Pcoikt protection for them
"Ivos they will furnish ns a siirflclent
iiunibe,. f nuiu l0 givp tii,.m this pro
ciloii. "We have the organization, eipilf
"X'nt lutd methods of instruction, and
"II we need is men. We can use
000 in,.,,, ht we lnst )ttve at ,.asl
300.
37, not including more than
fiftv wounded, among them Fablo
lw)i)ez, now a prisoner at Chihuahua,
who were able to escape.
Known Dead 178.
According to the best incide" fig
ures, 17S Villistas were killed in and
near Columbus during the nearly ten
nille pursuit by Major Tompkins and
his little force of forty-seven cavulry
men. The dead counted over the
field the week following thi fight,
numbered 172- Jn lft week one
officer and five Mexican privates
were found dencl, inside the New Mex
ico border, about four miles from
Columbus. They were concealed from
view by the nusqulte anJ "t'e brush.
The Villistas In their retreat made
four stands agalhxt Major Tompkins,
and quite a number of dead Mexicans
I worn found at each of these stanns.
When It was seen that such stand
was being made, the American troop
ers instantly dismounted and beg:m
picking off the Villistas with deadly
accuracy.
THREE BADLY HURT
IN AUTOMOBILE WRECK
( MOMINa JOUHSAL PCIAC LItD Wll
di-und Junction. Colo.. May 28..-
TO TAKE APPEAL! CLUB WOMEN
former chief of staff, Nicholas Her- t
nandez who is hidhnr in that vleinitv
He also has thrown out scouts along YoUtlJ!,
uitr ruuu lu v.'jiriufcji ,o cu-ui'i'i fur wiui
the column moving south frfum that
point, he said.
I til yoRHiN journal wpfrtAL kMAfllD wiAt:
Chicago, May :'S. Chairman
Chaihs D. miles of the republican
national committee today expressed
the opinion that the platform which
will be adopted hy the national con
'ventlon next mouth will he unusually
brief and deal only with the most
vital public questions. From Informa
tion obtained in talking with party
leaders on the subject he believes the
principal planks In the platform will
Include the following:
A statement on Americanism.
A statement on preparedness for
adoquato military and naval defense.
I 'or Protccthe Tnri'tT.
, A declaration in favor of a protec
tive tariff to be prepared by a non
partisan .tariff commission created by
congress, w ith special attention to the
needs of tho Industrial of thu coun
try after the close of tho Kuropcan
war.
I A declaration in favor of a mer
i chant marine.
' A statement dealing with the al
leged shortcomings of the democratic
! national administration.
Difference as lo SuffiHge,
On the question of national woman
jsuffruge Chairman Hilles said there
I was illfferpWe of opinion among the
'party leader and be did not know
! what action lh convention would
I tako on the sul Jci.t.
In epeukliig of the jnohalde. action
.of the progrrwit e national conven
ttlon called lo be held on June 7 In
! Chicago simultaneously with the r
jpul llcan national convention, Chalr
' man Hilles s;ild:
! Discusses Itoincxcll,
I "1 Imagine everybody lostimes that
I tlit' progressives will nominate I'oose
Ivelt for president. If the republl-
VILLISTA CACHE
OF ARMS FOUND
Dentist Convicted of
First Degree Murder De
clares He Is Satisfied With
Verdict,
Clergyman , Tells General Fed-
mi oninl joust iriciAL LtAato wmfi
New York, May 2R. A declaralloit
that ho wishes no appeal in his behalf
Was Contained lu n statement Issued
from his tell In tho Tombs today liv
ftV MC1RNIN JOURNAL PaCIAL LCAMO WtHM
Field II cud 1 1 tin iters, Near Numiqul- j
pa, May (via Wireless to Colum- i
hurt. N. M ) A Villista cache of ma-j
entne guns, rines ami ammunition i I)r Arthur W uricn Wnllr, convhted
wwas unearthed today In a , unyon j s,ltur,iav of Ihe murder of his father
near here hy tonspeople of Namiqul-i inlaw. j0i1u j.;. r(;tk. of Grand Kap
pa, worsing unuer Americun uirecuon. i,
"I am satisfied with the verdict,"
(he said, "and don't want any appeal
! made by Walter II. Deuel (U nite's
i counsel ) or anyone else. 1 ,irn willing
(Ward, sincere, ringing declaration oil
I the vital public Hc-tioiis now being
oration That Its Work s;d"' " '";' vr; ,'7,rl.y
, , equal to the Important tasks whlih
Driving Out Butterfly Type Urn ' onfrom me next president,
r r n" x',' I Hoosivelt might not think there
Of remilllllliy. I would he any need of his entering the
. . , field. Put If the republicans noml-
i nate a man who Mr. ILoosevelt thinks
., ,, .,. .. . . i Is ii. misfortune , slid adopts n platloini
iw York, May 2. I ho xvoinnnsl , , , , .,
wna n Hi' rcKar'is us cum, ne j
The find, which waa officiallyy re
ported to Gen. J. J. I'ershing, expedi
tionary commander, is regarded ns im
portant, not only because of the quan
tity of armament discovered, hut be
cause it reveals a change In the. spirit
manifested toward tho American
droops hy the natives of this section.
Since the beginning of the expedi
tion ninny rumors have been current
that Villa had numerous stores sof
arms and ammunition cached in Chi
huahua, but the ftore found today is
the first to he uncovered by the
Americans.
The finding of the cache is attrib
uted directly to the recent killing of
Candclxrio Cervantes, the notorious
! Villista. lieutenant., it being pointed
"HAttuv t. irrciutiNG,
Adjutant General of trie Stale, and
Krigiulier General Commanding,"
ump In Good Condition.
1 ni.nie u thorough Inspection of the
Mexico national guard ca"p.
aid the difference, between its ini
tar.v anangements and the voluntx-r
''a'nrs of the Spanish-American w ir
a remarkable. I saw u number of the
vai:ntc,..r camps, both in the I'nit-,'!
,wt,' and in the Vhilriplnes, durint
wur with Spain and the stibs,
'"nt tinnble with Aguinuldo. Had
vulantecrs or that time been stih
''''tl to the sanitary discipline whic'.i
"il.- at Columbus they might have
"J'inici, bt certainlv some thou
,,f
W0UJ h
He cainp sanitation at Columbus Is
jrft' t. T)p 1ctia? and wide sandy
a' fin .which the .New Mexico hovs
eii'aw,,, is kept in good eondi-
Jn Plentiful use of crude oil.
auh
Francis I'eeser. James Rolibins ami
Den Mczza were seriously hurt short
ly after midnight today tx hen un au
tomobile in which the three were rid
ing turned over.
liobbitis was driving the cur at high
speed at the local race track, Hesser ( n(,B!J wtn xvhirli the cavalry pursuit of
was pinned beneath the overturned j orvant.es' band is being pushed. The
i country to the southwest of I-as Cru
jces is helng swept thoroughly by the
merle,n detachments.
out. that friendly Mexicans now feel
free to disclose secrets, which before
the death of Cervantes they kept un
der threats of death. This feeling of
security on the part of the natives is
being augmented by the relentless-
to lake the pun'thmcnt for my ill
deeds and the quicker that punish
ment conies the better."
Waite's demeanor underwent. a
change today and he lost much of the
mask of Indifference which he has
mujntalned since his removal to pris
on. He slept fitfully last night and
appeared nervous when he arose.
He expressed a. desire to attend re
ligious services unci was one of those
who heard the liev. J. Callahan
j preach on "The Two Thieves," at the
Protestant service conducted In the
! prison. In tlii' nlternoon Waite sent
I for a copy of the.Iilble and spent
several hours reading It. Ihe young
chili has doom
leader in this
Itev. Pr. Percy
of the Church
iety leader
ceo nli ii g to
d (ho "
country
Sllckuey Grant, rector
of (he Ascension, this
I'Jty, who spoke here today at u ves
per service attended by more than
2. "00 delgatse and nlliTtialcs to the
thilleetith biennial convention of the
General Federation of Woman's clubs.
"In the lace of your great organiza
tion," Iir. Grant said, "I see
left in American life for the society I
leader,' or the Woman of only social j
Influence. Your leadership Is of the:
bruin and the heart united for hu- J
mane and patriotic purposes. j
Symbol of New I'lau.
''The woman's club is the Instru
ment, and symbol or woman s
place. The club is Ihe co-operntive
school of social senice where all top
ics to seem to woman to pertain to
the welfare of the state are taught
and discussed.
"In her new place, woman has two
things to do. She must, face the
problems of home-cleaning and of
house enlargement. If 1 may be al-
c.ir.
dentist also read the Sunday news- I lowed to exhort the members of the
papers, especially the accounts of his
conviction.
Fe
hi!
homeF
V. M. K A. Committee to Meet.
Stintn Fe, May 2.-'n Friday of
this week, the executive committee of
the Xew Mexico Mutational associa-
.,m .-neer at Santa Ke to examine
(i,u evidence, oresented by f-'anta
thil t, is able to take Care of tho an
n u.i l convention of the association
'I'lv.nksiriVine week. Gists of
that are ready to lodge the
teachers have been prepared,
vii n.i rooms having been pl
addition to the hotels, ami chur
..na,, societies have pledged
selves to serve meals The chamber
,.f commerce has included I.S0 In
iis budget for the entertainment of
the teachers.
PROTESTS AGAINST
DEFENSE INCREASES
em who died from du'oase
been ullve today.
is ilistrihut...! m-fr tho road-
!'Y 11 ltil- utirifktsl.,,- L. Xt....iai. ..-l"',x
J'rig and commissary .siMish
"'"l Is a fire, built in a pit, which
""""".all the wate. These fires
j Celebrate 1'U'M Ma.
New York. May 2. Thousands -f
iiiismw were nresent today at a'mili-
tary field mass celebrated at the N't"'
york navy yard in mem,,,,
dead of the fulled States army aim
nsvv. The-celebrant was the Kev. ,
John B. Chitlwick, chaplain of the
battleship Maine, when she wan blown ,
in Havana harbor, and president
of St. Jos'ph's semina.rx at Hun
woodie; X. '.
MasMiMS joui,At tticm t4Att wiwai
Seattle, May 2S. Hesolutions pro-
,.;ui.i ! tet tim.' against the army mid nuvy in-
a thou- crUHii proposed by congress were
du'cd in adopted at a largely attended mas
1) and j meeting neiu o ine neaiue i luncn in
them tile American , nion -xgi, inm .viiu-
tarisin, today. Tho speakers, win, in
cluded clergymen and labor bailers,
denied the Hay-Chamberlain army
renrganiiMition bill, objecting particu
larly to the provision for for the na
tional guard, which they characterized
ns a pork barrel measure.
opposition also was voiced to the
preparedness parade which Is to be
hebl her" June 1".
Marshall
riiitorslty Ditin Die-
j Tauntou, Mass., May
j S. Snow, former dean of Washington
j university, St. Ijouls, Mo., died here
'today at the homo of a relative ftftof
i;in illnesB of several months.
CLIMB TO PEAK IS
MADE IN FIVE HOURS
Santa Fe, May 28.- Bfrt Sloan und
Peter A. Menu ii today were guides
to the first excursion pi Ihe ton of
the Lake peak, which overshadows!
Santa Fe at an altitude of 12.400 feet. I
The trip from the plaza to the top of
the peak was made in five, hours. From
the rim of the crater, a mile itbov,. the
city, a superb new was obtained of
the country as far north us Colorado
and as far south as the Slaked
plains. Tin- Thin has peaks, nearby,
loom a thousand feet higher, being
the highest peaks of the southwest.
The trail II -s Ciroauh dense Pine and
Miruce forests, ov, r meadows of wild I e"feeld
flowers, along bare lidges command
ing superb fiaoor.'iinas up to the lovely
lake in the crater from which flow
the Sunt iiFo and N'ambe rivers. The
trails built hy the forest servh e ure of
easy grade, safe and wide enough for
horses. Above ihe timber line the
snowbanks are still twenty in thirty
feet deep, Gut the trail itself is open
to the very pinnacle. Few New Mexi
cans realize that they can have all the
thrill and pleasure of alpine cliinbluu
right at home. The party returned to
Santa Ke before sundown.
federated clubs, f would cry out 'clean
up America,'
"CIcuii I'p America."
' I'l ev( ntable disease, war. a high
dealh-rate all these are your ene
mies. Clean up not only the defective
and destructive human material but
defective and destructive Ulcus.
"Women are expected to lid the
country of the alcohol habit, to secure
a supcr-iysieui of education to rear
and help the young, to divest pulitlm
of graft snd to raliic tho tone of rural
life. Why Is woman expected to do
so much? Why don t men tin some
of these great chores of the race?
Men Too Coiiscrxnlivc.
"Itecii use," said Dr. Grant, answer
ing Ins own quest ion, "most men are
Mines of o'UisiTcail -in, another name
of weakness Youth works for aiie
and (nasi do its bidding am so the
d pcrpituales its sway."
Three hands of delegates end visit
ors crowded Caincejc hall tonight to
hear women from twelve eiifiatichlacd
states tell of the benefits the vole had
brought them. Mrs. Carrie Chapman
Cult, presided. The speakers were:
Miss l.uey HIIK 1 epresetilliig ihe Ari
zona, Federation of Woman's clubs;
Mrs. K. Knight, president of tin- Cali
fornia federation; Mrs. W. IS. GurW
on, president of the Colorado federa
tion: Mrs John P. Vollmer. presi
dent ,.f Ihe Iiialin federnllon; Mrs.
Fitdfii'k A. I'", represent iny 1111-
fecl so milrfiFed as In run and pcr-
. jhiips help re-elect Pre.-ldent Wilson.)
Will Not Hurry Nomination.
Chairman Hilles denied a report
that the organization had ever
thoiighting to lone Ihe nomination of
a, candidate for presldt nl the first
dny of the convention.
"Such a plan has never even been
A.,ttu.,.l 1... .,,..,, I. ,-ru Ihr.. mt I i oil!, I
"' I'l'iee I , ;.. i,
, em 1 1 o 1 1 " , , I i o,i , , i.n , . , .... v , . v
would lie impossible," he said, "The
convention will follow precedent. It
will meet ul II a. m, Wednesday,
June 7, listen to the address of the
temporary chairman, appoint. the
committees and adjourn. The second
dav xxill be devoted lo permanent r-
w I ganlziitinn and consideration of com
mittee reports, which, of course, will
Include the adoption of the part)
platform. The I bird day will be tie
voted to the nominating speeches.
Tiler,, is a disposition to place no linn
limit fin the nominating speeches.
"Alter that tune wlil come the bal
loting for president and nobody knows
how long It will lake to get through.
We hope to get through Saturday, but
f I here Is a deudlock the convention
may gn over to Monday."
Chulnryn Hillei appointed Frank
A. Suill'ii' of lVniiR.vlvuiila. as chief
assistant 'secretary for the convention,;
and named among others the follow
ing a.-slhlant secretaries:
Charles A, llawiion, of Iowa; Krnest
f, HahJwin, of fir, gon; Fr.ink A, lla
Kelbaker, of Montana,
BULGARIANS INVADE
GREEK MACEDONIA
Several Forts .Are Evacuated
Without Resistance; Big
Serbian Force Is Landed at
Saloniki.
lav MoaNiNa jnuONAh arcciAL viAaKO wiatl
Only artillery boiutardiiu nts lui.yo
been In progress on the French front
around Verdlnn. No Infantry attacks,
have been made. Around I Mort
Honimr, northivy.t of Verdun, and lit
tho sector west of the Thlaumont
farm, northeast of the fortress, tho
bombardments have been violent In
the Argonne forest the French have
captured crutera caused b' Ihe explo
sion of mines and In Alsace have put
down an Attempt of tho Germans to
advance. In tho fight ef Saturdny
night, tho Germans In tho Cham
pagne district nf eeveral points pene
trated the French lino and took 100
prisoners. 1 '
Itosslans Check Foe.
Petrograd rt ports an 'attempt of tho
Get man In the Lake Driavlaty region
to start an offensive. The movt-nupt
was stopped by tho concentrated ar
tillery and rifle fire of the Uusslunn.
The Austrians are still on the of
fensive against the Italians lu the re
gion southeast of Trent, . .
Tho Hulfmrliui Invasion of Gnk
Macedonia, has rraehed !o Pemlr-JIUi-sar
and from lhat town fours Of Bul
garians itro said to h. making tholr
way southeastward toward the. Aegean
seaport of Knvulk, northeast qf Sa
loniki. ' j
Unofficial estimates place tho num
ber of tho hivadera at iC.OOO. -
Greek Do Not Iteslsl.
Along the Struma river (he fli'eeka
have evacuated the 'forts of ' Itupel,,
Tuiigtin, Spniovo and Kmievo to tiin
lliilgiirs without of firing resistance.
Coincidental with Hm tiulgurlan. In
vasion comes a report thai tho reju
venated Serbian army the ancient
enemy of the Hiilgnrs has landed at
Saloniki to reinforce the Hrllish and
French troops already there. This,
force has been estimated lit HO, 000 to
loo.ooti officers and men. ' H was re
organized on the Island of Corfu.
Gl IOI A.NS II It FAN. WOlil)
TO IMTI,I STATUS, ITALY SAYS
Paris, May I'S. Tho torpedoing; of
tho Italian steamship Moravia which
was sunk by a German fiubmarlnit in
tho Mediterranean on May "con
stitutes u formal contravention of the
German assurances coiiluimd In the
German note to the American govern
ment of May i," suys tits Temps.
"Germany.- however," thw newspa
per adds, "will not fall to seek to jus
tify her act."
SfTKIUAN Alt MY IS
GANOI D AT KAI.ON1KI
Paris, May 2s. After crossing tho
Aegean sea without loss, the Serbian
army In full strength had been In ml -,
try at Haliinlkl, according; to n dispatch,
received here today by wireless telegraph.
FltKNCH OCtT'PY
THHKK mATrilhi
Ten (onvlcleil ut SpU.
Gonilon, May 28. Ten per.-ons have
been convicted of espionage at f'rtis
s. Is, according' tn a ileutor dispatch
from Amsterdam which iUotes the
Trlogl'anf as authority for the. state
ment that three persons already have
oeeii executed, while (be sentences or
sven others who were lontlcmncd to
I death were commuted tu life invpris
lonnieiit. Nineteen others,, the dis
patch says, were sentenced lo I'M ins
of imprisonment.
nols, Mis. .1. M, .Miller, president of
the Kansas federation; Miss Margaret
lsnmhiiii, representing Montana: Mrs.
.'. P. Squires, president ot the Neva
da federation; Alls. Charles II, Cast
ner, president of the ' irevon leileia
Hon, Mrs. K. F. Corfmau, president of
Ihe t'lah federation; Mrs. Solon
Shedd. president of the Washington
federation, and Mis, JI. A. Morton,
piCsliicut of Ihe Wjomlng federation.
I'urio, May Is.- Occupation by the
French portions of three craters
formed hy the explosion of German
mines In the Amount1, is announced
in the official statement issued by tho
French wr department today. He-
gardlng; th battle of Wrdun, It 'c-
ports a lively artillery dud to the west
of the Mouse In the vicinity of Irafl
Man's hill and Intermittent caiinouad-
Ing: on the right bunk of thf river.
In upper Alsace the Frtdieli checked
txvo attempts; of the Germans to ad
vance neor Altklrch.
HKIU IN HKPtMtTS FHFS'
ttackh Rrrn-snv
I'lerlm. May 2S (via Iondon.)
French infantry Dttiiclm on the Ger
man positions on the southwest slope
of Iiid Man's hill and on the newly
captured village of Oumlcres north
west of Verdun, xx ere repulsed yester
day with heavy losses to the attack
ers, nay Ihe official statement issuml
toil. iv at German lu-adiuarters. The
sUitcmeul add-, lhat German reoon
iiold ring deliiebments (letietrattd the
Inns of the entente nliles at tieveral
points during the night, capturing'
about I mi prisoners in the Cham
pagne district.
Memorial services Hold.
Simla Ki, Muy L's.--Memorlul day
services were held this evening ut St.
John's Methodist Fplscopal church.
The few survivors of Carleton Pos.t
G. A. It., attended. Tho music includ
ed some of the old camp songs, Mrs.
Uickey having charge of tha music.
Rev. F. II. Hammond' thorn was:
Th lih twed ution."
