o"Would curses kill, as doth the mandrake's groan, I would invent as many better searching terrns."-KinHenryVIs
-SILVER, 70 1-2 CENTS
THE WEATHER
Fair Tonight and Tuesday
Tonopah Daily Bonanza
METAL QUOTATIONS
Silver
Copptr 28J4-30
Lead
$7.1847.35
$70480
Quicksilver ..
aaaaaaaaaaafri
VOL XV-NO. 338
TONOPAH, NEVADA, MONDA EVENING, MAY 29, 1916
PRICE 10 CENTS
nj
LTU
hi
o
1
a
s
El
0
0
111
0
El
El
BUILT TRANSPORTATION LINES PROM BUFFALO TO ASIA
-
RAILROAD KING OF THE NORTHWEST DIES
QUIETLY AT HIS HOME IN ST. PAUL, MINN.
TODAY AND A YEAK AGO
- -
1916
5 a. m.
9 ii. m.
12 noon
2 p. m.
51
62
68
71
(By Associated Preit.)
ST. PAI'Ij, May 2!. lames J. Hill, the most widely known figure
of the northwest died this morn Ins? as the result (if infection due to
bowel trouble, lie hud been unconscious for nearly twelve hours.
The family was at the bedside.
Hill's position as an international figure was displayed when
representatives of the allies came to New York in (iicst of a huge
loan. One of the first men to he sent for by J. P. Morgan was Hill,
' and his assurance that the people of the northwest were prepared to
do their share in taking up the foreign bonds is believed to have con
tributed largely to succcsh of tin? negotiations.
(iovemor liurquist ordered the flags of the copitol and state
hiu'Idings at half must. In a statement the executive said: "In the
pussing of Hill, the greatest constructive genius of the northwest
has gone. He was acknowledged us its foremost railroad builder and
husjness man."
The wealth of Hill is estimated at between $200,)X),XNI and $250,
OOO.IKXI. I
Jaunts J. Hill discovered "the breadbasket of the world"; in the
(Jreat Northwest; he led in its development from a wilderness into
what now comprises six wealthy states dotted with 4(10.000 farms;
und he blazed a trail for transportation which reached eventually
from Buffalo to Asia, with a total mileage of rail and steamship
facilities that would nearly girdle the earth.
That but roughly spans the story of his achievement.
Near Guelph, in Ontario, where James Jerome Hill was born in
18:i8, the son of an Irish-Canadian farmer, who died when the boy
was fifteen, there stands a tree stump labeled: "The last tree chop
ped by James J. Hill."
It marked the lad's resolution to go to the United States. He
had been prompted by an odd incident. According to the story that
is told, a strange traveler had stopped at the Hill farnito take din
ner, and left his horse at the gate. Young Hill saw Ihrt animal was
tired and he carried it a pail of water. The stranger was pleased with
the lad's thought fulness, and as he drove off he tossed him a news
paper from thf Vnited States, and culled nut gravely: '
"do there, young man. That country needs youngsters of your
spirit."
Hill read the paper carefully. It contained glowing accounts of
opportunities in the States. He resolved to investigate for himself
It was the next morning that he chopped his last tree.
As a mere roustabout lad of 18, he toured from Maine to Minne
sota. When, in 18")fi, he disembarked from a Mississippi river packet
at St. Paul that place was a frontier town of 5.000 inhabitants. At
the sign of "V. J. Pass & Co., agents for the Dubuque & St. Paul
Packet company, he found a job as both stevedore and clerk.
In the fifteen years that followed he seized very opportunity
to study the whole problem of river transportation. lie gathered no
end of experience and a little capital with which he launched his own
firm of Hill, (iriss & Co., which promptly displayed its initiative by
bringing the first load of coal that had even been seen in that sec
tion into St. Paul.
Relative Bumldl'T at I p.
today, 21 per cent.
1915
48
59
66
70
tu.
-
BOOMS BROUGHT
FOR AIRING
HUGHES AND DU PONT SEND
THEIR SPELL BINDERS TO
. FEEL CHICAGO
iHt AaxM'UKrd 1'rrsa.i
CHICAGO, May 29. Two additional
booms of candidates for the presiden
tial nomination were brought here to
day for Justice Hughes and Coleman
Du Pont of Delaware. Frank Hitch
cock launched a pre-convention cam
paign In the Interest of Hughes. Gov
ernor Whitman will place Hughes In
nomination, according to present plans
Hitchcock said, "Hughes is not an
active candidate, ana therefore no
headquarters will be opened, but
friends are at. work in his interest as
lndivduals. We believe, if nominated,
he will accept."
GREEK E0RTS TAKEN
BY THE BULGARIANS
German Officers Lead a Force of
25,000 Over the Border
Into Greece
(By Associated Press.)
PARIS, May 2!). The situation in the Balkans indicates impor
tant developments in the near future. Athens reported the breaking
out of serious troubles in the (J reek capital after it became known
that Hulgarian forces had invaded Macedonia. The Bulgarians now
on (Ireek soil are estimated to number 25,1 MR). It is reported that,
the Bulgarians led by Herman officers have occupied (ireek forts at
Kupel, Dragotin and Spatovo. The Hermans cliiinied the same privi
lege as the allies at Saloniki.
Short Skirts and High
Heels Officially Condemned
(By Associated Press.)
COLOtJNK, May 2!). Disappointed that both personal and nITi
l'iid pleas and wurnings have had little or no affect, the Wonmn'.s
Alliance of Cologne and thirty-five associated, women's nssociations
H'il organizations have petitioned the governor of the fortress to is
wie a decree forbidding the wearing of high-heeled shoe, wide-flow-Klmrt
skirts and. other apparel that has been smuggled in from
'ountries t war with Oermany or that is patently a copy of foreign
'"ode and fashion.
It shows a lack of patriotism and is a disgracp for Herman
womh n, sayN the petition in part, "that many of them go about in
clothing which by its striking, frivolous nature mockf the) earnest
wiitiiiieiit that rules among the people at this time of manifold need
AUSTRIAN
T
RETARDED
DRIVE IN SOUTHERN TYROL AND
TWO IMPORTANT POSITIONS
CAPTURED
IHt jaaelatrl Press.
VIENNA, May 29. The Austrian
drive against the Italians in the south
ern Tyrol continues In progress. Two
important positions In the vicinity of
Arsiero were captured today.
ll M-lnlail lres.
PARIS, May 29. The Germans have
renewed the activities on the west
bank of the Meuse, both wings de
bouching from Corbeauz and driving
against the French west of Cuniieres.
The assaults failed.
and
severe personal suffering,"
IS OF
COLUMBUS
COIIF
DEGREES
MOST
IMPRESSIVELY
Eighteen candidates were introduc
ed to the major degrees in the Knights
of Columbus yesterday at Goldfield.
The exercises were conducted in Elks
hall under the auspices of Tonopah
and Goldfield councils with Joseph J.
Scott, of Los Angeles, as the guest
of honor. He and his staff exemplified
the third degree in the most impres
sive manner. At the conclusion of the
degree work the knights were invited
to the Goldfield hotel where plates had
been laid for 300. Every seat was fill
ed and several score more chairs were
edged in at the last minute when It
was found that the number of ban
queters exceeded the estimates. The
dining room was handsomely decora
ted with cut flowers and the menu
consisted of a five course dinner. Dur
ing the service remarks were made by
J. J. Scott, Father Dermody, Adams
F". Brown, Father Diss and T. J.
BLACK MAMMOTH
Itr AnfMlntil '
BERLIN, May 29. Violent nrtlllery
duels are continuing on both banks
of the Meuse. The French made two
weak attacks on Cumleres, but were
repulsed easily.
FRUSTRATED IN All
ATTEMPT TO KILL
Illy AsMoelntrfl lres.k
BERLIN, May 29. The unsuccessful
attempt was made to assassinate the
Austro-Hungarlan minister to Persial,
a Constantinople dispatch says, by
Djemel Bey. He Is the same man In
volved several years ago In the assas
slnlatlon of Mahmoud Schefket Pasha, I In yesterday with Dr. Chas. A. Gehr
Turklsh grand vizier and minister of maun, representing the Oatman In
war. The dispatch says Djemel Beyjterests that furnishea the funds for
Lynch of Tonopah and M. J. Sullivan,
lieutenant governor of Nevada.- M. H.
Lynch past grand knight of Goldfield
1) resided as toastmaster.
The after dinner speeches were so
interesting that it was not until 2
o'clock this morning that the guests
took their departure. The return to
Tonopah was made without mishap
and the thirty-five machines skimming
over the desert with searchlights
throwing their beams far and near
made a beautiful sight.
The candidates were: Bernard
Flood, George D. Connolly, Ellward S.
Harney, Nicholas Janovich, H. G. Mc
Mahon, Denis O'Meara, Frank M. Ma
loney, James C. McNamara, Roy S.
Madden, John Henry McNeny, Joseph
Pelose, Anthony Perez, Chas. Schrini
mer, S. A. Cassidy, James Dunne, Mar
tin Lavin, Leo M. Harrington and
Jas. M. Kerns.
PEACE TALK TOO OLD
TO BE ENTERTAINED
Nothing New or Original About
the Suggestions Made By
President Wilson
I By Associated Press.) '
LONDON, May 29. The Liverpool Post says: "Irresponsible
peace talk received a quietus from Sir Edward Grey last week, but
there is no doubt that President Wilson's speech before the League to
Enforce Peace will revive the discussion in certain quarters."
The Post argues that the entente allies are fighting for virtually
the same object for which the president proposes a league of nations,
The Manchester Guardian says the president is almost as old as
the first formulation of the deal of organized peace, but it never in
any part of the world commanded the support accorded it in America
today.
Unique Concert Tour Along
German Fighting Front
an
(By Associated Press.)
BERLIN May 20. One of the unique activities' of the war
extended tour along the Ilidenburg section of the German east front,
has just COllie to a close after whnt nna mitrVit fnn j: :i
- " - ivi 111 au caii ttvruuiaruy
successful engagement. A Russian offensive of almost unprecedented
severity and bitterness failed to disturb the project in any material
way.
The tour was made by a group of distinguished musicians from
Berlin, Dresden and other centers. It was conducted at the request
of the field marshal himself. Both soldiers in the fighting lines and
invalids in the hospitals behind the front shared equally the plea
sures of the concerts. The leader of the tour, the well known Pro.
Von Weikowsk, of Biedau, has been in the field as a Red Cross dele
gate since the beginning of the war.
PROGRAMME FOR
PUBLIC SERIES
SERVICES AT THE AIRDOME WILL
CONCLUDE WITH PARADE TO
THE LOCAL CEMETERY
SINKING
RAPIDLY
COMPLETION OF THE INCLINE
SHAFT WILL BE RUSHED
WITH TWO SHIFTS
J. J. McCarthy, manager of
Black Mammoth of Manhattan
the
BABY TRAVELS ALONE
ARRIVES IN TONOPAH ALONE
AND PARENT IS FOUND IN
MANHATTAN
Read Todays News Today
When the Tonopah Bonanza starts the big cylinder press to
grinding ut the regular afternoon edition the day is ovr in Europe
AH the news has been sent over the cables. More real news will not
nrrive here the next day.
When it is 4 p. m. in Tonopah. it is 12 p. m. in London 11 ()) n
n. in Paris, Y2, '-i p. m. in Berlin, 12:5t! a. m. in CotHiitiiHpli mid
- :"' . m. in t'etrograd.
Six hours difference in time gives all the European news to Tono
pah people by 4 :K) p. in.
I lie difference in tune allows the afternoon newstoim r to caver
oil l. . I ... 11
... .,rwi irom me war cone in its regular 4 p. nt tuition. Prac-
wuj no newa u lent out from European capital, after 9 :0I p. ia
has seen service In Russia for some
time.
PORK CHOPS FOR ALL
IN THE RIVERS BILL
SENATE PASSES BIG APPROPRIA
TION WITH ONLY THREE
VOTES TO SPARE
the Black Mammoth. Dr. Gehrmann
and associates own the Record lode
On yesterday morning's train a lit
He light haired, blue eyed, five year
came "Id Kirl arrived alone from Salem,
Oregon. She had been placed In
charge of the conductors of the var
ious roads over which she traveled.
Her name is Cleo Nbrberg and when
she reached the evident destination,
In Oatman where woik Is going ahead nobody was there to meet her. Proba
as fast as men can be hired, but they;tlon Officer O'Connell was called to
think enough of the prospects In Man take the child In charge..
hattan to be generous In backing upl Inquiries were made in Tonopah
the suggestions of Manager McCarthy. ' and surrounding towns and by mere
Dr. Gehrmann Is an old timer at the
mining game although he halls from ! nPaltatlon , , that'the Black
Los Angeles as he In Oolddeld MllImlloth , ong f0 , ()f ,,,
in eniiHiing capital lor mat ramp.
making four feet a
lne "icnne snarr Is eown so root j working two shifts. The ore Is a free
IHt AMM-tatr jon the Durant claim," explained Mr. gold susceptible to cvanidlng and with-
WASHINC.TON. May 29.-Tbe sen- McCarthy, "nnd at a depth of 70 feet llt P,her arsenic or antimony and,
ate passed the rlvem and harbors ap j we have opened a bod or ore that rar- gs everybody knows there Is no short
trroprtaUon bill carrying approximately j ries ZV, feet running $187. On the op Ke f milling facilities at Manhattan
M3.0oo.0O0 by a vote of S5 to 32 after posit side of the fault we have ore to we are not bothering ourselves
jauaing aiany anieuuuiems. j running irom fig io izo ana we nave about that feature."
The celebration of Memoriaf Day
will occur at the Alrdome at 2 o'clock
tomorrow afternoon when an excellent
programme will be rendered as fol
lows: Selection, band; invocation, Rev. R.
W. Bayless, patriotic air, school; vocal
solo, Resignation," by Caro Roma,
Miss Irma Foltz; Lincoln's address,
Osden Monahan, vocal boIo, "City
Four Square," Lenore Sollender Han
by; selection, choir; address, Chaa. L.
Richards, patriotic air, school; vocal
solo, R. B. Kanouse; brief memorial
service conducted by Rev. R. W. Bay
less; benediction, Father Jerome Diss.
Immediately after the exercises citi
zens are requested to assenible for the
parade which will Include the Tonopah
brass band, all fraternal bodies, school
children, besides members of the
Grand Army, SpaniBh American veter
ans and the Woman's Relief Corps.
Automobiles will be provided for the
womenNand children and arrangements
will be made for the transportation of
flowers.
All persons having machines to loan
for the occasion which will not occupy
more than one hour are requested to
communicate with Mrs. Roy Davenport.
me local cemetery contains the
bodies of eleven veterans of the civil
war and four Spanish War Veterans
making a total of fifteen Instead of
We are lone as stated by a momlnsr naoer
day in the shaft yesterday.
ELEVEN BANDITS
SLAIN IN MEXICO
CARRANZA TROOP4 SCATTER A
BAND OF TRAIN WRECKERS
IN TAMPICO
Hr Associated Press,)
CHIHUAHUA CITY, May 29. Four
bandits were killed In skirmishes with.
Carranzistas near Lo, Angeles In tba
Tampico district. The bandits fled,
but reconcentrated near Eldoru, where)
they planned to wreck and loot train.
The Carranzistas made a suprise at
tack In which they killed seven mora
bandits and wounded many.
FORECAST OF THE WEEK
For the Rocky Mountain, Plateau
regioln and Pacific states generally
fair weather with normal temperatures
are probable during the week
chance the mother was located In Man
hattan almost Immediately without
the authorities having any clue on
which to work. Mr. Berg of Round
muumam loo cleo to her mother
yesterday afternoon.
BUTLER
THEATRE
ETTER PICTURE?
TONIGHT
THE LURE OF HEART'S DESIRE
Featuring- tha CelebrateT
EDMUND BREESE
In a story dealing with life on the
Yukon in contraat with New York
society and I If. ,09 th, Gptlt
White Way
Ano
PATHE WEEKLY
TOMORROW
Burton Holmea1 Travel Plcturee
"Old and Naw Manila."
And .
BLANCHE RING
In
"THE YANKEE GIRL"
Matlnaa 140; Ni9ht. 7:lM:4s.
Aa-mtaalaw. 10 ana 1e
