THE BARRE DAILY TIMES
VOL- XX NO. 64.
BAIJRE, .VERMONT, . MONDAY, MAY. 29, 1916.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
GREEKS
RESENT
INSULT
Bulgarian Invasion of Greek
. Territory in Macedonia
Has Stirred Up Grave
Trouble in Athens, Ac
cording to a News De
spatch at Paris The In
vaders Number 25,000
GREEKS EVACUATE
SEVERAL FORTS that "Ormany is working up ft peace
WILSON CRITICIZED.
Mediation of His Character Cannot Be
Entertained, Says London Times.
London, May 29. The Times to-day,
discussing recent reports that President
Wilson was preparing the way for Amer.
ican mediation in the war, declared that
mediation of his character cannot be en
tertained because, as the editorial phrases
it, a compromise between right and
wrong is impossible, and the war, as a
matter of principle, must be fought until
Germany is beaten.
President V ilson a electioneering
speeches," says the Times, "are bring
ing him on dangerous grounds. We should
be sorry to emulate the suggestion of
the Frankfurter Zeltung that. President
Wilson probably considers his political
prospects would be nelped by a coneiu
iiion of peace, but we think it right to
state quite clearly that the allies are
not and will not be disposed to allow
American internal polities to be Intruded
into their personal quarrel, iiiey re
spectfully decline to admit that their
righteous, honorable war can by any
strained exercise of natural impartial!
ty be assimilated Into a German war of
unprovoked auirression,, murder and out
rage. They will listen to proposals of
peace only when they come from the
beaten foe."
The ruornine papers generally comment
at considerable length on President Wil
son's speech. The Daily Chronicle thinks
FRESH PERIL
IN MEXICO
20,000 Mexican Troops Are
Concentrated in Chihuahua
18 SOPHOMORES ON PROBATION
On Signing Application for Reinstate
ment in Norwich University.
Northficld, May 2H. At a meeting of
the faculty of Norwich university held
Saturday, action was taken on the 24 ap
plications of sophomores for reinstate
ment in college after their suspension
GIANT OF WEST
TAKEN BY DEATH
WAS FORMER ALDERMAN.
Donald JJcLeod Died Suddenly Early
Sunday Morning.
Donald McLeod, an ex-alderman from
ward 3, a' past chief of Clan Gordon and
long prominent in the councils the
Democratic party in Barre, died suddenly
counting on American opiifon to help
her."
Government 01 breece lias two bodies recovered.
mm - t j J I .
Made f ormal rrOteSt lO Vergennes Boys Were Fishing in the Ot
Three Capitals of the Cen
ter Creek;
Will Not Take a More Bel
ligerent Attitude
Xf, on frintr' Tnrimia
tral Powers, but Probably the 15-year-old son" of Mr. and Mrs.
George Laramie, and Artnur james, me
14 year-old son of Mr. and Mrs. Adelnert
James, were drowned Saturday alter
noon in the Otter Creek. Their bodies
were found yesterday morning.
The accident occurred when the boys
were returning in a canvass canoe from
Paris, May 29. A news dispatch from a fishing trip near me mourn oi ueau
- I 1, A ...I na.tir f .I I .1 ,1
Athens says that grave trouble has ' X , T'.
broken out there, following news of the fa,g Uwr(n(,e Austin, who runs the
Bulgarian invasion ot Macedonia. Otter creek boat livery, was notified, and
Tendon. Mnv 2!). Interest in the ereat he placed all his boats at the disposal o
war acain shifts to the Balkans, a Bui- krers for the bodies. Throughout the
.. :.a night the search.was kept up, inerxwyo
puna H ...y wi..s ....- the JamM .y l)Cin discovered at
cdonia. The invaders, who number 2a,- o'clock and the Laramie boy at 6:30
000. have reached Demir-Hassir, from o'clock. The bodies were discovered
which, town they are turning toward the the middle of the river, where it was 30
Aegean seaport of Kavalla, northwest of feet deep, about 70 feet apart and about
8aloniki. Along the Struma river the 00 rods bolow the state industrial acnooi
Greeks have evacuated the forts of Ru- dock. John D. Gee and George Holcomb
pel, Dragotin, Spatovo and Kanevo to discovered the body of the James boy and
the BulgarS without offering resistance. I'eter jenners ana rramt tejoy mat ui
Greece has formally protested against the Laramie boy.
the action of the Bulgars, forwarding
notes to her ministers at Berlin, Vienna
and Sofia.
The invasion has caused violent com
ment in the Greek press and much agi
tation nmnno- the nomilation. It is be
lieved at Athens, however, that it is the Rome, May 20. Oarlinal Gaspari, the
intention of the Greek eovernment to papal secretary of state, is quoted hy
mfin it action to . a nrotest.. At Si- Rome newspapers to the effect that Popi
loniki popular indignation has taken the Benedict, while maintaining the strictest
form of a calj for a big indignation neutrality, deplores the anti-Christian
,;- f !;, in.Aav ia nUtain m and inhuman aspects of the war. In llic
expression of protest. The capture of absence of satisfactory evidence the pope
FUNSTON GIVEN
REPORT BY BELL
Serious Difficulties Arise in
the Tampico Oil
Region
San Antonio, Tex., May 29. Reports
concerning the concentration of Mexican
troops near Chihuahua were transmitted
to General Funston to-day by General
Bell at El Paso. The reports indicated
that the number of the Mexicans was
pproximately 20,000.
Wtaahinirton, D. C, May 29. On the
eve of the receipt of General Carranza's
new note, which officials believe will re
new the demand for withdrawal of Amer
ican troops from Mexico, and with an
other' conference between American and
Mexican military commanders about to
beein. a protest was received at the
White House yesterday reporting serious
difficulties between American oil opera
tors at Tampico and the Mexican author
ities.
earlier in the week, -alien the entire class Torwgc J Hill the Railroad a h'8 home on the Montpelier road Sun
was cither suspended or er.pelled because T.j ' ' " , day morning at 4:10 o'clixk. During thi
ui Hazing oi irisiiinen. i lie jnciuiy on XJUliUCr aiHX lapiUUlSU
Succumbed To-day
WAS DISCOVERER' OF
Saturday acted on 18 of the applications,
placing the applicants on probation until
July 1, 1017. The remaining applications
were tabled, and announcement was made
that' it is not likely they will receive
further consideration until sometime next
college year.
In order to secure reinstatement and 'WORLD BREADBASKET
or, piiu-eu on pronation, me 10 Bupiiw
mores must subscribe to a blank pledging
themselves not to participate in any form
of hazing during the remainder of their
college courses at Norwich and to use
their influence to prevent others from do-;
ing so. They" must also express regret
for the hazing and consent to the reor
ganization of the class by electing new
officers.
President Reeves of - the university
made the following statement to-day as
regards the situation:
Sometime between 1 and 2 o'clock a.
on., Wednesday, May 24, the sophomore
clans of Norwich university hazed six
members of the freshman class by dip-
Helped to Develop Territory rj?'.;
Now Comprising Six
Wealthy States
fall and winter of 1015, Mr. McLeod was
in indifferent health and only last spring
he suffered a severe attack of the grip.
Latterly, however, he was able to resume
work and was busy at his trade at the
plant of Leclalr A McNulty only a week
ago. Saturday he was working in his
garden. He retired at 10 o'clock in the
evening, complaining ' of a pain in the
shoulders. Mrs. McLeod wm awakened
by her husband in the early morning, but
before a physician could be summoned he
A WEAK PEACE
CONDEMNED
V
Rev. Edgar Crc ..id tfeliv
:ered Stint address '
to V .ans .
"WORSE THAN WAR" IS
BETRAYAL OF RIGHT
was born in Aberiour,
Banffshire,.- Scotland. March 27. 18"6. a
son of Mr.'and Mrs. Donald McLeod. He
served his apprenticeship as a granite
cutter in Scotland and came to America
around 35 years, ago, settling in Quiney.
Afterward he returned to Scotland, where
St. Paul, May 20. Jam J. Hill, rail- " married to Miss Elizabeth uow ot
road builder, capitalist and the most L Rarre 33 TMr Mf hgd
widely known figure of the Northwest, probably resided in Barre longer than
died at his residence at 9:30 o'clock to- any other Scotch resident in the city,
nin ih.m in . f,..i ...i ,.:,..! day as the result of an infection due to a wa employed by Larroii & McMUty
f. . .. . i . I , . ,, 1 afterward at the plant of the Dewey tol
w.r. t. ,,. Ku,.v.ri, PP"H "w". , umn A Cuttinir Co. and latterly bv Le-
them With leather bolts, barrel Staves, U wm nnranirlnm fnr n.irlr 1? Unn t ir.v..u... nr. u.T-j ' "j.u.
i ... . . . , , ... I : - - " . nail a. " ici ill l y . lur, ' i t-wii bci v-u 1. 1 ' r.
Inn rulnHlai 1 uarnafl of vhil hart fair. I I
. . , , i, n, . . j I before he died. Drs. Herman Biggs and city as alderman from the third ward in
en place at 7 ocloek that morning, and ,;, ,nlq TI , . . . . . ..
nrJ...rf. i-v-it- Stanley Seacer. toeether with members 191M913. He belonged to the granite
Clergyman Advocated Pre
paredness and a Greater
- Respect for the Flag :
ter. I found that the so-called strapping of his immediate family, were at his, bed-
cutters' union and wa ,the first man to
Mr.
POPE DEPLORES INHUMANITY.
But He is Able to Single Out Neither
Side as Chief Offender.
the fort of Rupel places the Bulgars in is unable to pass judgment on improper
control of the railroad from Salonikl to conaucx enarges maue on oulu biubb.
The pope is represented as cherishing
the belief that the conclusion of hoslil
ities may be hastened by a greater de
gree of Christian tolerance on both sides
and by a partial renunciation ot claims
and a keener sympathy for the suffering
Kavalla. Its occupation, it is explained,
is necessary to Beeure the lett wing ot
the Bulgarians acrainst an eventual en
tente allied attack. .
Co-incidental with the Bulgarian in
vasion conies a report that the rejuve
Tinted Serbian army the ancient enemy people.
of the Bulpars has landed at alonllcl
to inforce the British and French troops FUNERAL OF QUARRY VICTIM,
already there. This force has been vari
ously estimated at from 80,000 to 100,000 That of Modesto Aja Was Held Saturday
officers and men. it was re-organizea Afternoon.
Spanish colonies in uarre, Barre lown
and Montpelier united Saturday alter
noon in paving tribute to the memory of
WITPP. PTTT TinWAI Modesto Aia, a young quaryman, who
was accidentally mum ui riti-rviii
GERMAN ATTACKS
Two Sallies from Corbeaux Wood Failed,
According to the French Official
Statement, Fifteen Aerial
- Encounters Occurred.
Paris, May 29. Two attacks were
Thursday morning. the funeral was
held at St. Sylvester's church in Granite
ville at 2 o'clock, the parish priest, Rev.
Joseph Turcot, officiating. The bearers
were: Joseph Cano, G. Fernandez, D.
Cano and S. Aja. There were many floral
tributes. The cortege escorting the re
made by German troops advancing last! mains to the Catholic cemetery on Beck-
night from Corbeaux wood on the Ver
dun front. A French official report to
day savn that these assaults failed. East
of the Meuse the night was comparative
ly calm, except for heavy artillery action
in the vicinity of tort aux. t itteen ae
rial encounters occurred and two German
mschines were brought down, one falling
in flames.
While a French pilot was making
trial flijrht, he was attacked in the re
gion north of the river Aisne by a Ger-
ley street in this city was one of the
longext that ever left Gramteville.
TWO MEN PINNED DOWN.
One of Them, George H. Darton, Killed
By Auto at Biddeford.
Biddeford. Me., May 29. Geoiae H.
Darton, of Portland, widely known as a
trapshpoter, was killed here lait irght
when an automobile in which ht. was id-
man toKker, wnicn nrea over i.iupu nnoiB. ling wim v . ii. r. riai icviui; , urnti ui
The Fernhc aviator under the hail of bill- Portland, skilled on the state highway,
lets and despite the fact that his machine plunged over a ten-foot embankment and
was literally out to pieoe, succeeded in overturned. Both men were pinned under
returning to his lines, followed by hi the car. l-olwartzchny was not injured,
iipn a chnrfpr annlir-ation for Clan dor
Brown, Hill's per- jon. He served the clan es chief in 1906,
He was a member of the Barre Congrega
tional church. Two. years ago Mr. Mc
Leod purchased a home, in Berlin, after a
residence on Long street.
He is survived by bis wife, .two daugh
ters. Elsie A.. McLeod and Alice M. Mc
Leod, and one son, William A. McLeod,
who is employed in the Quarry Savings
bank. His mother, Mrs. Donald McLeod,
ves in Scotland, and a brother, George
McLeod. is a resident of Barre
dotted with 400.0001 The funeral will be held at the house
Mexican military officials were promul- -sm j;..iii . u kJform.. .,) K!., . f, .. Tuesday afternoon at 2 o'clock. Rev. J
gating decrees designed to make it im-L , ' . w ailmmone(1 Lai- . trnm- Bfrnett. pastor of the Congregational
possible for Americans to do business in --, .: " 4V. " ........... . church, will officiate and interment will
the country, and told of how one of their IT," JiT oi --J VL .-If. Buffalo to Asia, with a total mileage of be made in the family lot st Elmwood
number had been arrested and imprisoned to t-hem T)e fa(.tr terefdrai1 ana arnship facilities that would cemetery,
for three hour's because herefused to pay ... m v. nf, i a - narlv irirdU th .rfh.
his employes wages fixed by the author- re,olution Amiin ,,, wi.ii.xr, urn K,.ii if BURIAL AT W1LLIAMST0WN
m n rxs of term nrevious y aereed . . .. . . " . " """" "i "
' " ' I O ! rriAtn nAVa rtr y ta SAnhnmora a ana u'hn
nnnn u-it h f lio man I .
had been in two cases extremely severe Ujde at, the end
hu iraiiuui, aiinoiiKu inniriinir i ...a. j v i
rious injury. Some newspaper accounts -""-' -p-alleging
that some of the men hazed were er death to the waiting newspaper men
required to go to the hospital were In- at the Hill home. He said that no ar
accurate. I ravicrenients reffardinir the funeral date
"Hazing is prohibited by the rules and had digcugsed. .
The protest came in the form of a tele- ,. , t . . , ', James J. Hill discovered "the bread
gram addressed to President Wilson by . ... ... ... .... :. f tu. : k x-,k
, . . ... ... , wains vw i-iiiirr, uuii t.iiis v aa mib liirV ill- woin w nc nuuw in vim kicv
84 American citizens residing at Tarn- Mianitia .rnllBti T i. t j . "i .
pico, who had held a mas, meeting and "ce "J w,ei- he ,ed ,U elopment from a .
determined to lay their case before the r IhllSJZ' tie Lit i,d""" int h ix
government. iney area l,'e Uer I decided that nothing short of the I w',llnJr ,wts
l.vi.si, mililarv Altif.iali U'DT. nmmil . ......... n ..1. ...
tarms; and be
portaion which
Buffalo to Asia
, , were on probation, and indefinitely bus- . , .... . . ..
asserted thf rpmj,inder of (he cU,j he also helped to create for tl
e Amer- "Previous to this action the aonhomore along his lines a wealth of ov
nnln.,ZYr.X c,aM had Md ' mept'R which resolu- 000,000 in real property, which is repre
rdSfdeeero J f'"!.! the vllu.f 'the 400,fW f.L.
The signers of the message
their right to protection from th
lean government and announced their de
termination
i i- .
,m u.u.. uu uc.., to stand together. The faculty could in
the Mexicans. I tvt. .,;;.. : 4i,. .
Wbite House officials sent the protest - ' . .Uk..i. land.
. " I vnnil IUS11' V7i Vl 1 1" IIV- nilHWUMU IIIUBIi VI I "
and his associates an immense fortune, I Funeral of Mrs. Murdo Beaton Was Held
the settlers
er $3,000,-
- 1 ii . r ji , i
ion in no nthpr wavl . ' ' .
to the state department for inveetiga
tion. Other complaints already have
been received regarding recent decrees by
the Carranza government, and it is prob
able that there will be representations on
the subject just as soon sb the confer
at Webstertalle.
The funeral of Mrs. Murdo Beaton,
who died at her home in Webstervflle
Friday morning at '4:40,' was held from
her late home Sunday afternoon at 2
o'clock, Rev. James .Ramage, . pastor of
the East Barre Congrega tionad church
the members of the class were renpeefful Upon his retirement at 60,, the "streak
in all their relations, and with the ex- of rust" he had boueht 30 years before.
ception of their attitude in this matter, had expanded to more than .000 miles officiating. The house was filled with
as fully under the routine discipline a and it was earning trross profits of more those who came to pay their last respects
cadets of the other classes. The fatuity than $M,0OO,flOO a year, and carrvintr to a woman who was held in high esteem,
held that there was no question about 15.000,000 tons of freight annually He kind wife and loving mother, and many
ence over the pretence of American troops the ju,ti(,e of ru(J int htfiin ,nd ,m retained a liand in the Great Xorth. there were .who stood in the yard
n Mexico Is adjusted.
"We believe that the authorities had
not the remotest idea when they first
begun to issue such decrees," the Tarn
pico message said, "that they would be
able to enforce them, but that, when
nothing was done bv our government to
secure their repeal, these edicts have
been made more stringent ech day tin
that, since the sophomore class had vio- em's policy as chairman of the board of throughout the service, the rooms being
laietl it, and runner. decided 10 stand I directors. While his son. Louis, who had nnea io meir capacity, nunai was in
together in the matter, nothing short of worked up from the humblest position of I the Willia-mstown cemetery and many
disciplinary action against the entire his father's railroad, became president. teams wended their way with the sor-
class would Drove to be adeouate. The secret of the Hill auccna. win no rowing party to that plaee. The bearers
Out of the 30 members of the elass secret at all, according to Mr. Hill, and were jonn .MCAUiey, reu .urivenzie, uw
three were dismissed and 27 Indefinitely he had no new recipes to offer. "The
suspended. One of the dismissed mem-1 man with the big opportunity to-day,"
til now our property is threatened with I ,. ... i- ... , . . ., . - ,
confiscation, and in some, cases has been
actually confiscated, and our personal lib
erty is menaced.
A military decree was isued somo
months ago providing that lands might
not be leased in the state of Vena Cruz
for oil purposes without the consent of
the state government and this decree has
been modified until now no foreigner is
permitted to acquire leases, real estate
or assignments on leases from a native,
In this state an American may not ae
faculty held May 27, 18 of the appliea-1 clared to be extravagance. He regarded
tions for reinstatement were acted on, this as a national tendency, aeainst
ptecing the applicants on probation until which he strongly set himself, particular-
July I, 1017. The remaining applications ly as concerned the natural resources.
were tabled. It is not likely they will! During his active supervision of the
receive further consideration until some- Great Northern system, Mr. Hill overesw
time next college year." I almost every detail, to the wonder of all
The Orieinal Sophomore Position. employes with whom he came in contact.
The copy of the statement prepared bv fuitiv h4is ""Uion in Beaton nd : si
i, ' i... .. . xJii. ' . ' his own country is the story of a tourist, spent in eb
the sophomore class was as follows:
e, the sophomore class, adopt and
is Clark and John Matheson.
Floral tributes included the following:
Carnations, Air. and"Mrs. Densmore; ear"
nations, John, Norman and Murdo Mc
Leod; carnations, John McAuley; carna
tions and roses, Peter Matheson; hyd
rangeas and primroses, Mr. and Mrs. Will
Lappin; wreath, Mrs. Gregware and Mrs.
William Blow.
Mrs. Beaton, who was born in Winslow,
P. Q., had reaehed the age of 64 years.
She was married 20 years ago to Mr.
Beaton land since then her life had been
(iRterville. For about eight
quire real estate nor may he lease land respectfully present to the president and
from a Mexican, nor will be even be per-1 faculty the toiiowing statement.
mitted to lease a house or apartment fori "I. The reason for our action on the
over one year without a special permit, night of Tuesday, May 23. 1916, was to
The military government of thia state take the 'freshness out of a few mem
has instructed the stamp office not to is- bers of the class of 1910. It was not for
sue certificates of transfer where one personal grievances nor to injure mem
American sells to another and the gov- bers of the aforesaid class.
who declares that there are afloat in the months she had been ill, suffering with
Swedish section of the Northwest up- encer of the stomach and a general
wards of 10.000 different stories in Swed- breakdown. She is survived by her hus-
ish dialect with "Vera Hell" as the cen- band and two children, Dannie and Lil-
terpiece. Patrons of his lines hav liked Han, who rwide at home; by two broth
and dwliked him in ranid alternation, for ers. John Matheson of Williamstown and
it was his point to have his way. not Peter Matheson of Barre (Sty ; and many
only where hie road should run, but nieces and nephews.
where his patrons should settle. This
ernor refuse to certify to the signature
f the notary in any contract or other tn
strument in which an American appears,
the effect of this procedure being to pre
vent Americans from transferring their
property, to other foreigners.
A decree was issued a few days ago
by the local military authorities provid
ing that labor should be paid, and mer
cbandise
Mexican
"II.
We feel justified in our aetion on r'". Part ,of h.is "-"nfmic policy He CONDUCTOR HIT BY POLE.
I I. C I H"I I IIC V II vi I III 17(11 H4; I, It'll (Ml I . , . , .. . .
this night, but sincerely regret if any of rr''d ou' regulanty in the
the members of the 1019 class were in
jured.
'III. Our attitude toward the author
ities is not intended to he defiant in any
way.
"IV. Our action wa that of a class
location of branch lines, giving a mini
mum of short lines on which light trains
were unavoidable. The principal text of
his railway gospel wi low grades, heavy
power, large capacity cars, and big train-
Harry F. Mcintosh Is Likely To Be About
in Short Time.
Conductor Harry F. Mcintosh of Mont
Services of a patriotic character were
held and a stirring sermon was delivered
by. the pastor, Rev. Edgar Crossland, at
the First Presbyterian church Sunday
morning when the veterans of R. B. Cran
dUH post, G. A. R,, members of Major
L. A. Abbott' camp, Sons of Veterans,
and women of Col. J. B. Mead circle ga th
ered for their annual Memorial Sabbath
exercises. At 10 o'clock the veterans and
the auxiliary men's organization formed
in line in front of the post room at city
hall, marched down North Main street,
pausing to salute, the flag suspended
across the thoroughfare in front of tho
Howland building, and then continued on
to the church, where they were ushered
to seats well toward the front. .. ' "
Preparedness was the keynote of tho
pastor's address to the veterans and tha
manner in which the subject was handled
left no doubt as to where the preacher
stands on a question that is agitating
many minds to-day. It was a forceful
declaration of principles, delivered with
torcetulness that carried conviction.
By, and large, it may be considered as ,
one of the finest contributions made to
the calendar of pre-Memorial day ad
dresses delivered to Crandall post in a
long period of years. Warmly, the pas
tor welcomed the visitors and referred to
the happy circumstances which made it
possible for them to be there.
The text was taken from Ezekiel, 33d
chapter. 5th verse, which reads as fol
lows: "He heard the sound of the trumpet
and took not warning; his blood shall bo
upon him. But he that taketh warning
snail deliver his soul."
The pastor spoke substantially as fol.
lows :
"It is an intarmtint coinfldenca that this
pauaerc concerning the watchman and his
trumpet hai bean publicly employed recently
as an apology for national duty by two of
our greatest American!, an ex-pmident and
the president of these United States. Both
were interpreting- to the American .people their
conviction of the duty of the hour, convictions
wide enough apart, so far aa application was
concerned, but abaolutely at one in eeaence.
With different degree of emphaau, both are
making the same fundamental declaration.
The trumpet, in divers tones, ha one clesr
note, a note of challenge to the Intelligence
and the loyalty of the American people.
"As a Christian minister, I am neceensrily a
lover of peace, though not. of a Dear houe-ht
at the price of honor.. . Longfellow said, 'War
is a terrible trade, but in the cause that is
righteous, sweet is the smell of nowder.' And
said the great English statesman, Pitt, whose
hands were full of war in the titanic struggle
then being waged agsinst the terrible might
of Nspoleon, 'War with all its evils is better
than a peace in which there is nothing to be
seen but usurpstion snd injustice.' Every
lover of freedom and honor reaoonds to much
virile sentiments, which rise pure snd-grateful
from the inner founta of moral intuition. The
one thing w orse than war is peace obtained by
the betrayal of right and the acquiescence in
wrong.
War has not always been the symbol of to.
tal depravity, nor is it to-day. War is not sn
unmixed evil. God hss made even "the wrsth
of men to praise Him," and carry into effect
His eternal purposes for good. By war. the
larger part of the habitable world hss been
opened to the progress snd benefits of civilisa
tion. Whole nations, too. hsve been freed,
from political bondage and religious oppres
sion by this terrible instrument we call war.
Wsr opened the doors of Chins. Jspan and the
Philippines : war broke down the cruel mysti
cism of India : and it sa wsr that drove the
Pilgrim fathers to seek sn asylum of political
and religious liberty in America. The inde
pendence of the colonies, the acknowledgment
of their right to be free, was won by the
patriotism of wsr. Lexington. Concord. Bunker
Hill, Vslley Forge, all tell the story of blood,
for without the shedding of blood there ti"
nothing. None will question the patriotism of
Abraham Lincoln and few his idealism, yet
tne exigencies of a terrific situation reveal
and as such we feel no individual or in-
should be sold on a basis of dividual who were participating in it
gold, this consideration to be I should be punished.
paid in Mexican paper money at an arbi- "V. We feel that the recommends -
trarv value fixed by the government, re- tions for punishment so far art unfair, in
gardless of the commercial value of this th-it individuals who were in no way
paper money as regulated by supply and 'ring leaders' receive punishment.
tnand. I I. If the authorities should decide
"All of the above decrees violate Mex-thst punishment is due the clasa colW-
iean law and are in contravention of theltivelv. we, as a clss, agree to abide by
ghts of Americans guaranteed by treaty! such decision."
between Mexico and the I'nited States.! The statement was signed by R. W.
We desire to know if the American gov- Onttonv.T. . Loughlin. IL Herbert Cameron
pelier, who ia employed bv the Barre &
loads on his main lines, and he began to I Montpelier Traction A Power Co., was
preach this at a time when these things I removed to the Hty hospital Saturday him as a prophet of righteousness when he de-
were held as visionary by most railway I night
men.
when he struck
fares on an open
PARADE STARTS AT 9:30 A. M.
Afterwards There will Be Exercises at
the Barre City HalL
adversary. Another French machine at
tacked the German and brought him
down near the lines.
tin the left bank of the Meuse, an
automobile cannon brought down two
German air machines.
DRAWING IRON RING
AROUND GERMANS
Colonies in Africa are Surrcundei By
British, Belgian and Portuguese Foicci
Which are Closing in.
London, Mv 2!l. The British, B.ltin
and Portuguese forces tiiat lmaded .er
man East Africa are slowly forming a
ring around the Germans. w!ii(t- (. enir.il
Siniiti, commanding the South .African
fnrr-es, is rmind'ng tip the trtrmans
fending the I'samKara railway and hss
occupied important stations alone the
Lne beide towns in th district. The
British have penetrated 20 rui!e into
trcrman territory. Tlt IVlginii are ad
vancing from the northeast end the
lVrtuguee are wrtipying the southern
frontier.
AUSTRIAN'S CAPTURE F0SITI0SS.
Wtst of Aihiera, According t the Vien
na War Office.
Wnna. Sunday, via Berlin, anl wire
less t. SaTtuie M'i.lsy, May 2H. Aas
tro Hur.csrian troops captured a forti-f-4
ff.s.tn n ft of Arhiera, th Vienna
war annujoed to-dsv.
Darton was 3.) years of age. He was a
member of the Portland Gun lt;b.
TWO MEN ARRESTED
On Disclosure of Minor Arrested for As
saulting Hit Father.
Brattleboro, May 20. As a result of
disclosure made by Merton Reed, 16, of
Whitingham. who was arrested for being
drunk and assaulting his father, Walter
Wright, 2I. and Media Medas, .VS. both of
Whitinjrliwm, were arrested yesterday.
Wright is in the Memorial hospital
and Medas ia in the lmkup. Wright will
be charged with furnishinir voting Kee.l
with whisker and beer. Me.las, the boy
claims, furnished him hard cider.
ernment wlil permit the above decrees or
any of them to remain in force where the
rights of AmerMins are involved. An
understsnding with the authorities as to
the future would not be sufficient; the
decrees already in existence must be re
pealed where they affect Americans."
DENIES HAVING NOTE.
AMATEUR THIEVES AT WORK.
St
Got a Small Amount of Loot from
Albans Store.
St. Albans, May 23 -The store of W.
C Marsh was broken into Saturday night
some time after l.-3l o clock, bv means
of an iron bar. or jimmy, used n a rear
window. Seme jewelry sn takn from
a showcase and a lo pound box of tobac
co, the retail lalue of the nnt being $10.
The work spparentlr was nt done by
expert.
E. W. Huntley's Condition Very Lew.
Waterburr, Mar C9. P.cport from the
bedside of V W. Hunt lev states that his
condition ia now cr it ira L He has beea ill
lor B,ne vinks.
Mendet, Carranxa't Attache, Says He it
in Washington Oa Vacation.
Washington, D. C, May 2!. Manuel
Mender, attache of General Carranza's
foreign office, arrived to-day and con
ferred with Eliseo Arredondo, the Mexi
can commander, but he denied that he
had brought any note or instruction
from his chief, as had been expected, l'e
declared that he was merely here on a
vacation. Arredondo and other Mexican
officials professed to be pur.sled.
It had been reported from Mexico ity
that a special messenger was bringing a
new communication from Carraura.
There waa no indication of the contents
but it waa assumed br Americans that
it would probably renew demand lor
withdrawal of American troops.
TWO CHILDREN BURNED.
and W. B. Hedges, president.
ONLY SLIGHTLY INJURED.
E. W. Muldoon, Brakeman, Was Struck
in the Stomach.
E. W. Muldoon, aged 21, of St. Albans,
a brakeman. was removed to the City
hospital Saturday for treatment as the
result of injuries in the stomach, which
was sukimr a car on the new track. fT,.' V" ?'J
north of Granite street. The atake, a
it is called br railroad men. had been
used to connect the locomotive with
freight car on another track. It waa
hen the stake, unsble to carry the
heavy load of the freight car, backed
in the middle that Muldoon n struck
in the pit of the stomach, just under the
solar plexus.
A phvsician was called and Muldoon
was removed to the hospital at one.
It as feared that a stomach rupture
would develop, but yesterday t he young h fc veatry Immediately after the city
-i a v sb Minrfi4tyifi t mTWViVawff tvci ranMlt- that I "
suffer no- from injuries ahont t he 'irea. r onciy oo we nope, fervently do we
h. lau I'll. " m j n'sai, mis nits ii ir svtiu ratrr ui wr may
ead and shoulders which he sustained ,pedily pass swsy.' Yet if God wills thst it
a post while collecting continue till all the wealth piled up by the
car near the Marvin ulVT". SI "1 ot
farm. Concussion of the brain was of blood drawn voth the lash hi oaid for
feared at first, but reports from th hos- by another drawn by the sword, as was said
pital to-dav indicated that Mr. Mcln- ,hrr ."Tr'' y.n FX '? !?" m1,t "
toshs condition is considerably improved. rihti. .it-ih.r - HMr nrnu. tk.
The best traditions of past Memorial I The conductor lives at 109 Main street in beneflrent purposes of God are never defeated
days will be preserved in the exercises Montpelier and his wife ig employed in hy ..'f' '7 ";" " '"V1 of men.
arranged for to-morrow in Barre. The Barre as a milliner at the store of Mrs. funded It with no uncertain sound, and you'
program will be carried out under the di- Flora Foeiter in the Gordon block. veterans of the Civil war. you took warning
rection of R. B. Crandall post. No. M, Passengers say that Conductor Mcln- fnd ,y"u d'!ivVfi. oot ZZT 1" .""1'
G. A. R,, with the assistance of allied tosh bnd just stepped from the deck of ln the memory of that glorious achievement
patriotic organisations. For the yearly the car to the running board when he we are met here in God's house to-day.
march to Elmwood, the procession will was struck bv a, pole, which is located . ' w" , Sl lu . " T'
form at Depot square, under command of on the west side of the track a few ol , ta th. bronte Grand Army button en sn
t'apt. C. Newell Barber of Norwich uni-1 yards south of the Marvin farmhouse. I old blue cost.' I know something of wbst it
versity at 9:30 o'clock, starting immedi- He retained coasciouJneas long enough to iTL..h.,"1 yr, 5 bl',0,
ately for the cemetery. Alter short cling to a car hsindle and then he was as- -Th. day brings to our memory not oniy
Mi It and tne giving ol tne salute, the sisteil to one of the benches. Jlotorman ".' who gave their full me
naraders will march to tlte city hall for Jesse Kellogg stopped the car and T)r. J ,.h, psrent and wi
the exercises, tol. Ira L. Reeves, presi-1 J. E. Dewey of Montpelier was called. It it hsrrier to give up tbeir beloved thsn it
dent of orwioh university, ss to bet the! was decided to nich the car through tol would hsve been for them to hsve given them-
Barre and to transfer the injured man to "V"' "" "ia '"'T1 ,L' 11'
ju oiyanisii.ioiia planning ki panici-1 me nospitai.
pata in the parade are asked to report Dra. M. I Chsndler and W. E. Lawll
to the chief marshal of the procession, were notified.br telephone to be ready
Veterans of the Civil war. the Sona of to assist in caring for the conductor and
eterans and the Barre t. ltixena band (when the main line car reached Citv
will be in the parade and it ia expected I square, Mr. Mcintosh was quickly trans
that St. Aldemar comma ndarr, K. T- and I ferred to the Washington street car,
Canton Vinton will have representations. I which wg stopped at the hospital. Th
City officials, including the mayor and! man recovered consciousness and seemed
councilroen, have accepted invitations to to be feeling much better yesterdav.
pariicipate. Dinner will be? served by the rhvsirians state.) this morning thst
women of the G. A. R. to all veterans Mcintosh did nt suffer any broken bones
and invited s-uests at the Congregational dnd thst he will probably be able to
man's condition improved so rspidlv that
he was permitted to return last night to
his home in St. Albans. Muldoon will
be unable to resume wor for several
da vs.
Probably They Started BUte While
Playinj wltli Matches.
Caribou. Me, Msy 2 Two small ch.l
dren of Jocph Baker, a laborer, wee
burned to death ia their home lue miles
out on the an Buren road .Saturday,
according to advioes received lere U-t
igt. It is thought the chil .ren nsrt- i
the fire while j,Uing ith Kaubea.
RETRENCHMENT DEFEATED.
Senate Would Not Reduce River and
Harbors Appropriation.
Washington. D. C May 2f. A motion
to send the $43.so.tSiO ri.ers and harbors
b:ll bak to te committee with instruc
tions to substitute a bill providing a
lump sum of f .ft) was rejected by
the Senate to-dav bv a vote of 41 to 27.
hall exercises. John W. Averill ia chair
man of the Memorial day committee.
Graves of veterans of five wars in Elm
wood. Hope, Wilson, Maplewood and the
Catholic cemeteries) are to be decorated.
Followa the order of th exercise at
city hall: Selection by the band': reading
of general orders and salute to the dead.
Adjutant J. K. Harris; selection hy the
band: tribnte to the unknown dead and
Lincoln's Gettysburg address. Comrade
A. J. Ialdwis; teiectKMi by the hand;
prayer, t-ev. it. . I.ipskr; nngng.
"America," music by the band; address.
Pres. Ira I Feerea; eleyioB by the
bsr-j!; licet lHtss.
leave the hospital in a few davs. Mr.
Mcintosh was employed a a tool sharp
ener until he began to work for the trac
tion company a year ago. The offending
pole, whfch is said tr he located in a place
where it is a peril to car opcrntu es and
passengers alike, was removed to day.
I -
I
No Paper To-morrow.
To morrow. Memorial day. there
wiil be no isue of The Time-.
Wednesday's pat-er will i-onfstn a
full account tf the dav'a ooir;.
snore bers use thst genius was not tndh-idusl
or isolated, but the typical incarnation of tha
soul of our country. They were related to
America in their moral snd spiritual strength.
"I am not an alarmist 1 God forbid thst f
should ever be thst. Vet, it is with searching
of soul thst I si led to ask. Are we worthy
of oar sires? The men of '76 ssid there eo!ld
be no tsTstion wi-hout representation. The
men of 'SI ssid with Lincoln. A house divid
ed sesfnst itself csnnot stand.' 'A government
of the peopte. by the people and for the neopie
shail not ptrtsh from the earth. Other and
subtle terms of peril confront us. their sorts
snd dsugbters. We are in the mtit of a
chsnging order. The trumpet is sounding! Tt
rings out clear as a bell over hills and val-
rivers and lakes, forests and prairies.
snd t would cry. 'ir that bsth ears to bear,
let him bear.' and understand and respond to
the rsll of 'the new day.'
"First, to hesr the sound of the IranM.
snd if I interpret it sncht. H is seasxltng the
rhaitaiae of iinasstsrtisled Aesersraassm. To
day it is wnquestior,sl-!y true thst a consider
sble porulstioa imi.nf us ss willing to eerert
osjr rstiooal rmte-' ori for thir gov4s and
sM?s. sod rsir nstioosl sdvaniees of tw4-
ieg std rwitig in the eorM. b:'e rrgmrtmg
the nises Itirru-ve f mi arv duty of loyally
to ir,e na henemji whose inAnn thev are end
ing the acceptable. orr-o-tuniSy of their lives.
In Tsct. it la r.pc-(r m: rmeil mat there Is a
Arsvite rrona-T4a tm retatn lm-aT'y to other
Sara whi-e seeeotirg the eeruriry of tmr osrs.
a d recent imwiw es'terta iw e no WiM cf
tSe impress a among as to some extent, tkat
(Contia-ied on fourth f'P-) .
s
y
