'IvWrrfeT
it
.
FINANCIAL EDITION
aie&gr
NIOHT
EXTRA
NIGHT
EXTRA
ituetim
t -
PHILADELPHIA, TUESDAY, JULY 18, 118.
CoriBisitT, 1818. st ins PtBtio Ltcoii Covrun.
Iwrt 3--02M$ilPrs2 FILL
pjrioe one bmirb
SLAYER CAUGHT
AFTER FLEEING
CAMDEN PRISON
Man Who Fled After Killing
Turnkey Captured in
Chester
VOL. IT. NO. 263
WHERE CAMDEN JAIL BREAKERS KILLED KEEPER
HAIG'S TROOPS
WIN 1000 YARDS
NEAR OVILLERS
r
Capture Another Part of Im
. portant Albert-Bapaume
"Highway
QUICK NEWS
CHICAGO lstG-. 0 0 0 0 3 1 0 3 2 0 12 1
ATHLETICS. .. 2000000002 7 3
Cicotte niid Sclmlk; Lamilng and Canoll,
iV
J
(!
1
3'
1
r
rM-
K
" N
P"
tor
STRAIGHTEN OUT FRONT
French Beat Back German
Counter-Attacks Before
Peronne
LONDON, July 18.
An ndvanco for tho British troops over
n front of 1000 yards In tho sector of Ovil
lcra (Somme front) was announced In tho
omclat report Issued by tho War OtHco at
noon.
Ovlllcrs had been cleared of tho last rem
nants of Its German carrlson on Sunday
night and on Monday morning, but In front
of the village the Germans fought Btub
bornly. Tho advanco of tho, British In that dis
trict, which Ilea north of tho Ancre. gives
them control of a further section of tho
Important Albert-Bapaume highway.
Ovlllers lies on tho northern nldo of tho
salient which tho Allies havo thrust Into
the German lino and strong pressure has
been exerted thero to push baclc tho Ger
mans and thus straighten out tho English
frontj
Thero have been severe bombardments on
tho Sommo front.
TEUTONS FAIL TO DISLODGE
FOCH'S MEN IN TERRIFIC
ATTACKS SOUTH OF S0M3IE
PARIS, July 18.
Heavily reinforced, tho Germans havo
taken the offensive south of tho Somme.
Tho War Office In Its official communlquo
tod.p- stated that tho Germans havo "de
livered many assaults between Blaches and
Maisonnette, but that virtually all were ro
pulsed, and that the battlo Is still raging
there.
A few acrman elements, It was admitted,
succeeded In penetrating tho French posi
tions at Blaches, but the lighting Is still In
progress.
Tho Blaches-Malsonnette lino lies In tho
Bouthwcst of Peronne, with Hill 07 Inter
vening between them.t That Is the point
whore tho French lino ales nearest to Pe
ronno, which Is' tho immediate objective of
General Foch.
In their counter-thrust tho Germans de
livered numerous attacks In an effort to dis
lodge tho French from their positions at
Maisonnette, but these were repulsed by
tho concentrated flre of tho French artil
lery and machine guns.
Tho text of the official communique fol
lows: South of tho Sommo the Germans
late yesterday and during the night at
tacked our positions from the village
of Blaches as far as Maisonnette. Do
spite repeated assaults, which cost them
heavy losses, they were unable to cap
ture Maisonnette. A few enemy de
tachments patrolled along the canal
Into the eastern sections of Blaches,
where tho battle continued.
On tho left bank of the Meuse a
surprise attack against our trenches at
Hill 304 was checked by our fire.
On tho right bank the night was
marked by grenade combats on the
outskirts of Chapelle, Salnteflne and
west of Fleury, The enemy was re
pulsed at every point There was a
rather violent artillery duel In the re
gion of Laufee and Chenols.
On the rest of the front the night
passed quietly.
VON HINDENBURG SUMMONED
TO WESTERN FRONT TO HALT
ANGLO-FRENCH OFFENSIVE
AMSTERDAM, July 18 Field Marshal
von Hlndenburg, commander of the north
ern group of German armies on the Rus
sian theatre, has been summoned to the
West front for a council of war with the
Kaiser and General von Falkenhayn, chief
of tho German general staff, says a dispatch
from Berlin today. The genius of tho Ger-
Contloned on Fare Fire, Column Six
THE WEATHER
Try to be brief.
Too much oral explanation about any
thing has a tendency to jar the nerves,
'especially at this time of year. The shorter
you make a thing the easier It I; to under
stand. Bear this In mind when you're
telephoning. Let your facts be as bare as
possible. Remember that the party at the
other end Is probably In a warm booth and
neither your wit nor English will alleviate
matters If tjio air Is heavy. The word
"please" sounds pretty good on such occa
sions and has a- tendency to throw a dash
fit sunshine among disagreeable clouds of
the day.
It Is well to be a member of the "please"
society. Its aim Is to show that courtesy
and kindness are not yet dead, despite the
fact that the world Is munitions mad.
When the thermometer rises hold yourself
In check. You'll never know it's hot until
some one tells you.
FORECAST
For Philadelphia and vicinity
Partly cloudy tonight and Wednesday;
modtrattly warm; gentle winds, mostly
southeast,
'
Uat'GTII OF DAY,
Bun rise,., 4:43 a. m. I Moon rla . 0:31 p. m.
Bun tot.... V-l P. ni. 1 Moon aoulha 2J3 a. m.
DKLAWAUE KIVEll TIDE CHANGES.
CHESTNUT STREET.
HLrh water. 8.52 a. m. I HUh water. 4ll6 p. m.
Low water 11:03 a ro I Low water. 1137 d. m.
TESIfEKATUKK AT EACH HOUIt.
sl ui mTul lal Hal a 4 s
76 J 771 791 3 &TT85I 85 1 b6j I '
LOST AND FOUND
UHOWN BOSTON TEKIUEU. toil, k'rtjay nUnt.
whlttf aDOtl. boLLrd LatL b2d and L'teatnut.
ituuera tu nauia ul i'i. nwurd J-'i It re
turned to StuI Ofaeinut at
BOO Lett. Mblu Pomeranian los on each Iq
front ( HoUl Chrlaea Atlantic CUv Monday
lUturn to T B Kelly. Ik MottiiwU avr At-
jntlo City N. J '
Otbtr Leal and. Vuuutl Ail uu I'uto 14
A 'a
Tho chair in the foreground shows tho position occupied by Turnkey Isaac Ilibbs, who was shot and killed by
Wilson AshbridRo and Georgo E. Thompson in their escape from tho Cnmdcn County Jail last night. The
open cell door is that of the cage from which the pris oners emerged into the exercising space whore the fatal
encounter occurred, during which Ilibbs was killed and Keeper Joseph Ellis received seriou3 wounds.
VILLA ESCAPES
FOE AND HEADS
FOR U. S. FRONT
Trevino Admits Inability to
Head Off Band of
Outlaws
AMERICANS ARE WARNED
"Pancho" Villa has broken through
tho Carranzista cordon in southern
Chihuahua nnd is headed toward the
American border.
General Jacinto Trevino, do facto
leader, admits his inability to stop tho
outlaw band and warns tho American
officers against possible raids
Pennsylvania guardsmen are en
camped near Presidio, Tex., and may
havo opportunity for a clash, since tho
raids nre roported aimed from Ojinaga
upon tho Big Bend district.
Tho better class of Mexicans aro
organizing a rebellion to eliminate both
Carranza and Villa, with Francisco do
la Barra for President. They aim to
conduct a financial revolution. A ten
tative cabinet has been chosen.
It is denied in Washington that a
complete agreement has been reached
with Mexico, although negotiations aro
proceeding satisfactorily.
It is stated that 98,000 national
guardsmen nro now on the border or
on trains bound for the front.
EL PASO, Tex., July 18. "Pancho"
Villa's advance guard today is riding on a
raid north of Chihuahua City within less
than 1C0 miles of tho American border.
General Jacinto Trevino, commander of
tho Carranza army of the north, who had
up to this time stoutly declared that his
troops were defeating the outlaws, admitted
Continued on Face Seren, Column Three
ONE FELLED BY HEAT
ON ANOTHER HOT DAY
Germantown Carpenter First
Q Victim as Temperature
Gradually Rises
A gradual and steady rise In the tem
perature, which registered 75 at 8 o'clock,
79 at 10 o'clock, 82 at 11 o'clock and 83 at
noon, with tho excessive high humidity
mark of 96 at tho last named hour, Is ful
filling the forecast of the Weather Bureau
that today would be fully as uncomfortable
and distressing as yesterday.
Conditions are attributed to a storm
which It Is said has been beating along the
coast, bringing with It the unusual store
of dampened atmosphere that Is causing
great discomfort
One prostration was recorded this morn
ing. Thoma3 Wltchm, 65 years old, 280
Aspen street, Germantojvn, was stricken at
Stiles and Bucklus street, where he was at
his work as a carpenter. He was taken to
the Frankford Hospital where It is. said his
condition Is serious.
Four deaths resulted In Philadelphia yes
terday. The victims of the neat and
humidity were Charles Noone, 42 years old.
2241 Carlton street, who was found dead
on a barge In the Schuylkill River at
Yankee Point; Joseph Potts, 57 years old,
3257 East Thompson street: Ralph
Chrlstenson, 7 months old. 2315 North 7th
street, and Mltro Zook, 7 months old, 1911
North Philip street.
Atmospheric disturbances over West Vir
ginia last night are expected to be felt
here today. The humidity will not be less
ened. The, percentage of humidity yester
day was 30 per cent greater than normal,
the average for the day be!ns0 per cent
Indications were that this percentage and
proportion would obtain throughout most of
today
The h'ghest temperature was recorded
yesterday at 1 30 o'clock, when the mercury
reached 35. The humidity at that time
was 3-
HEAT-MAD NEGRO
KILLS FIVE; SLAIN
IN HIS BARRICADE
He and Wife Hide in Home.
. Fire on Chicago
, Police
DYNAMITE ATTACK FAILS
CHICAGO. July 18. A heat-crazed negro
killed flvo persons and wounded three
others early today, and then, Intrenched In
his homo, armed and aided by his wife,
defied pollca In a siege almost unparalleled
In police annals here.
He was killed by n shot from the re
volver of a detective sergeant, who entered
tho house alone. In his brick house, riddled
with bullets, was found n plcturo of Villa.
Tho police also discovered writings showing
that tho slayer has claimed to bo an apostlo
and savior of the black race.
Harry Mcintosh, the negro, deliberately
shot Mrs. Josephine Overmeyer, a white
woman, ns she walked to the front of her
house carrying her baby. Tho Infant was
uninjured. Harry Knott, another negro,
came over to Mcintosh's home, at 328
Irving avenue, from which point the man
had Bhot Mrs. Overmeyer, to remonstrate
with him, and was shot. Mrs. Knott, who
accompanied her husband, was wounded In
another fusillade which tho maniacal negro
turned loose. Terrorized residents of the
neighborhood ran to the Warren avenue
police station, nearby, for tho reserves.
As Mcintosh, standing at the front of
his home on 328 Irving nvenue, saw tho
bluecoats approaching on the run he emp
tied his revolver Into the squad. Policeman
Stewart Dean, 60 years old, fell dead from
one of the bullets.
Mcintosh fled Into his house, barricaded
tho doora and windows and shrieked de
fiance. Not a person was allowed to ap
proach within his gunfire and, the Insane.
Continued on rase Sn, Column Two
PRESIDENT AT CAPITOL;
TELLS SENATORS CHILD
LABOR BELL MUST PASS
Ultimatum to Leaders Demands
Action on Measui'e Before
the Adjournment of
Congress
FACES SERIOUS TEST FIGHT
WASHINGTON, July 18. President Wil
son this afternoon personally delivered an
ultimatum to Democratic Senate leaders de
manding the passage of the Federal Child
Labor bill before the adjournment qf Con
gress. The President went to the Capitol and
for more than an hour Issued his orders to
the .Senate Democrats. He made it plain
that he was prepared to make a definite
fight for action on the child labor measure,
even to the point of forcing a serious break
with the powerful group of Southern Demo
cratic Senators, headed by Senator Smith;
of South Carolina, who are bitterly opposed
to the bill.
Senators Kern, Owen, Williams, Martin,
Simmons, James anT"aHughes and Vice
President Marshall were among those sum
moned to the. President's: presence during
his stay at the Capitol. They were notified
that the president, for various reasons, con
siders the passage of the child labor meas
ure of paramount Importance.
The leaders at once, cleared the decks for
a fight to Pass the bill, and as a, first; step
they sought to placate the opposition Sen
ators. Their early efforts met with little
success, and It was apparent that the Pres
ident was confronted with the most sertou
test of bis leadership that has w for
marked his Administration.
lly Kvcnlnc IxjclBer Stall I'hotoir-aphcr.
SOX OVERCOME
ATHLETICS' LEAD
IN THE OPENER
Local Bunch Scores Two
Runs in First Inning Off
Eddie Cicotte
MACK SHIFTS LINE-UP
CHICAGO
Werner, m.
i:. Collin., 2b.
JYIfdi, rf.
.larLHon. If.
e.s, ll.
J. Colllin, rf.
Imlk. c.
Mr.Uiilllri. Sli.
Orotic, ii.
I'mulre. Chill and
ATm,TT71CK
I.uury, -b.
Mitt, t.
('trunk, rf.
rHlmiiff, If.
I.ujolr. II,.
Ual.li, rf.
McKluee. 3b.
Cnrroll. c.
Limning, i.
Kriuis.
By ROBERT W. MAXWELL
SII1BE PARK, July 18. Wet grounds
yesterday again forced the Athletics to
grapple nnother iloublo-hcader with the
White Sox, nnd this afternoon the second
twin hill of tho series was staged. Tho
first game started at 1:45.
Tho Mackmen are tallenders, but the arti
cle of ball plaed by this combination has
been far from that of trailers. Tho Mack
men havo lost, but most of the games go the
wrong way by close scores. Tho hitting
power Is not there; but In other departments
the team Is playing un to stnndard.
Lannln began in the box for tho Athletics.
Ho was opposed by Eddia Cicotte.
FIRST INNING.
Weaver popped to Witt. U Collins, lined
to Schang. Kelsch tiled to Walsh. No
runs, no hits, no errors.
Lawry beat out a hit to McMulltn. He
took second on a wild pitch. Witt sacrificed
and wits safo on Clcotte's error. Strunk
"singled to left, scoring I,awry, Witt pulling
up at second Schang sacrificed, McMulIln
to Ness. I.ajolo sent n long sacrifice lly to
Felsch and Witt scored after the catch.
Walsh filed to Jackson. Two runs, two
hits, one error.
SECOND INNING.
Jackson lifted to Strunk. Ness struck
out and was thrown out by Carroll at first.
John Collins walked Strunk ran In and
Continued on fuse Tho, Column the
JERSEY PREACHER BACK;
INNOCENT, WIFE SAYS
Rev. L. H. Joslin Returns to
Pittsgrove and Girl Wife Ac
cused Appears in Pitman
The Rev. Lewis II, Joslin, pastor of the
Friendship Church nt Pitts Grove. N. J.,
has returned home. Mlsa Nettle Lafferty,
18 years old, of Pitman, N J., Is also back
after a ten days' visit somewhere.
These facts were reported todny to the
Philadelphia police by Mra Elt'ibeth Jos
lin, wife of the clergyman, who on Friday,
July 7, swore out a warrant for her hus
band's arrest, charging him with desertion
and asserting a belief that he had "run
away wlthUhe girl."
Joslln's return was a happy event for
his wife, wjio now states she Is convinced
that he didn't run away at all, but simply
went to stay at the bedside of his sick
father.
The minister got back on Sunday.'but not
In time to occupy the pulpit. It is not
known what text he has adopted for his
sermon next Sunday. Before ho disappeared
he preached on "Love," which his wife
later said was his masterpiece.
Mfsa Lafferty was traced as far as Cam
den, where she dropped out of sight. The
preacher went from home In a Ford auto
mobile, which he sold at 19th and Berks
streets for $90. With a part of this money
it Is presumed be paid his carfare to the
home of his father. He aa two children,
eight and three years old.
Cuba Wants U, S. Naval Instructors
HAVANA. July 18 The Cuban qovern
tnent will ask that several American naval
o nicer s to be assigned as instructors u the
new Cuban Naval Academy
WALLY SCHANG GRASHES INTO STAND," HURT BADLY
SHIBE PARK, July 18. Wnlly Sclinnff, plilyhlg left field for
the Athletics, slipped in tho seventh inning of. the first nme wltli the
Sox today and crashed head on into the grandstand will. He Md
attempted to cntch a foul fiom Jackson's bat. Wally wns hurt ao
badly ho wrs taken to the clubhouse, wlicic Ihtco physicians wolked
over him. Mlttciling replaced Schang.
rVE?f AJ'TJSR 51AY O?
ATin.FTTCS r h o a
i 1---V -' .... 120 2
Witt, ss l IJ 1 3
Stup.'h.ci II 0 1 a 0
SchaiiG, If 0 0 C 0
Lajoic.lb ..... 0 1 10 1
Walsh, rf 0 12 0
McElwcc,3b 0 12 2
Carroll, c 0 0 3 1
Lanning.p 0 0 C 0
Nabors, p 0 10 1
Mittcrllng.lf, cf... o 0 0 o
Toula 2 7 27 13
EMPIRE CITY RACING RESULTS
First race, 2-ycar-olds, handcap, wth $600 added, 5 1-2 furlongs
Straight Forwaid, 117, J. McTnggatt, 11 to 10, 1 to 3 and out, won;
Bally, 110, Loftus. d to 1, oven and out, second; Philllppic, 120, Kc--Cahcy,
11 to 5, 11 to 20 and out, thhd. Time, 1.08 '1-5,
. FLOOD CLOSES BIG TOBACCO BAG FACTORY
DUHAM, N. C, July IS. The Golden Belt Manufacturing Com
pany, one of tho largest manufacturers of tobacco bags In tho world,
closed Us plant today because the Yod had cut off tho power.Ouo
thousand men, women and childien were thrown out of work.
FEDERAL EXPRESS WILL RESUME OPERATION FRIDAY
The Pennsylvania Railroad nnnounccd today that It would resume operation
of the Federal Express from Washington to Boston, by way of the Lehlsh and
Hudson River and Now York, Now Haven and Hartford Railroads, beginning next
Friday. Ono trip a week will bo made. The operation of this train, which was dis
continued on January 8 of this year, permits tho traveling public to avoid New
York city during the epidemic of infantile paralysis In that city,
McADOO NOT TO HEAD RESERVE BOARD
WASHINGTON, July 18. Secretary McAdoo will not resign to become chair
man of the Federal Reserve Board, to take tho place of Mr, Hamlin, whose term
expires on August 1. This was formally announced at his ofllce today by George
Cooksey, his secretary.
20 DEAD, $20,000,000 DAMAGE IN SOUTHERN FLOODS
RALEIGH, N. C. July 18. An appalling toll of damage and loss of life was
taken by the storm which swept North Carolina, according to every delayed dis
patch reaching here this afternoon. Twenty persons are known to have perished.
Six wero drowned at Ashevllle, 10 at Mecklenburg. 3 In Alexander County and 1 In
Wako County. Many others are missing and given up by relatives as dead. The
property loss now Is placed at $20,000,000.
HOUSE PASSES BILL TO FIGHT INFANT PLAGUE
WASHINGTON. July 18. The House this afternoon passed a bill appropriating
$135,000 to be placed at the disposal of the public health service In combating the
infantile paralysis epidemic centred In New York.
NEW ORLEANS SUBTREASURY HEAD RESIGNS
WASHINGTON, July 18. The Treasury Department this afternoon announced
the resignation "because of private business affairs" of Assistant United States
Treasurer W. W. Heard, In charge of the Subtreasury in New Orleans.
ELKUS NOMINATED AS AMBASSADOR TO TURKEY
WASHINGTON, July 18. President Wilson today nominated Abram Elkus,
New York, to be United States Ambassador to Turkey, The nomination was de
cided upon several weeks ago, but sending It to tho Senate was delayed pending
Inquiries ns to the acceptability of Elkus to the Turkish Government.
ZEPPELIN MAY ARRIVE FROM GERMANY IN AUGUST
BALTIMORE, July 18. That a German Zeppelin, one of the largest ever built.
Is expected to sSil across the Atlantic In 42 hours from Germany and land in Balti
more about the middle of August was learned he- tod .y from a source close to the
German Consul. According to the story, the .,.,,,,.... ,..! carry a cargo of salvarsan
and a serum used In tho treatment of Infantile paralysis. The aircraft may also
carry passengers on Its trip to this side.
THORNTON WILL INVITE POSTMASTERS TO MEET HERE
The National Association of Postmasters, in session In Washington, today
will be urged to bring its next convention to Philadelphia by Postmaster John A.
Thornton, who left yesterday, commissioned by the Chamber of Commerce to Invite
the postmasters to this city. Mr. Thornton took wih him V?0Q Chamber of Com
merce flags. He will make an address before the as&oclatlon on "Taking It For
Granted."
BACKS GENERAL WOOD IN DISMISSING GUARD OFFICERS
WASHINGTON. July 18. Major General Leonard Wood's action In masteries
out of service Colonel Louis Z. Conley and Lieutenant Colonel Phelaa. or the 69th.
New York Regiment, because of physical disability U to be upheld by Secretary
Baker, according to a report current at the War Department today.
REST ATtfwmCS LOSE AQAttf
e CHICAGO f It o a c
0 Weaver, en 0 113 0
0 E.ColImS,2b 0,1 1 no
0 l-'clsch.cf 0 1 l ,0 0
0 Jackson.if 12 3 0 0
0 Ncss.lb 2 2 11 1 0
1 J.Collins.rf.. 2 12 0 0
o Schalk.c 12 5 10
2 McMullcn,3b.; 112 2 0
0 Cicottc.p 2 1 1 S 1
' '
3 Totals 1227 j5 i
it(yii i
WIFE AIDED JAIL BREAK
Forgave Man Who Killed Actress
and Fled With Him.
Pal at Largo
High Points in Capture
of Camden JaiUBreakcr
MURDERED Turnkey Isaac
Hibbs, wounded Keeper Ellis,
escaped Monday, 7 p. m.
Discovery that Mrs. Ashbridfce fled
with her husband 11 p. m.
Learned that murderers fled to
Philadelphia, Tuesday, 9 a. m.
Reward of $1000 offered for their
capture, 11 n. m. ,
Ashbridpre and wife captured nt
Keystone Hotel, Chester, Pa., noon.
tVilsbn Ashbrldge, who, with Georgo
Thompson, murdered Turnkey Isaac Hibbs
and wounded Keeper Ellis, of the Camden
County jail, nnd then .crcaped, was captured
this afternoon at the Keystone Hotel, Ches- r
tcr, with MrB. Ashbrldge, who had fled with
him.
The murderer was subdued after a strug
glo In his room on tho third floor. Ho was
facing a mirror when Detectives Padgett
nnd Robinson burst In the door, Ashbrldge
reached for his revolver as he turned. Bo
fore he could pull the trigger the detectives
pinioned him to the floor. Mrs. Ashbrldge
uas about to nld her husband when Deteo
tlvcs Hunt and Schragle, of Camden, ar
rived and overpowered the woman.
"GUKSS IT'S ALL UP."
"I guess It's all up," said Ashbrldge as
he sank In a chair.
"I guess It Is," said Hunt
Mrs. Ashbrldge, according to the police,
confessed that Bhe helped her husband and
Thompson to break Jail. Ashbrldge waived
extradition and with the "woman -was
bundlcd Into an automobile and whtaked
off tt the Pennsylvania Railroad station.
They were taken Immediately to tliii ofllce
of Prorecutor Kraft and later locked ia
tho Camden County Jail.
Edward Fry, proprietor of the Keystone
Hotel, said the couple reached his place
about 10 o'clock this morning. He noticed
that they were tracl-stalncd and nervous.
HOTCLMAX REPORTS.
Fry nsslgned them to a room on the third
floor. Ha noticed also that Ashbrldge an
swered.ti description of one of the men who
broke Jail In Camden. Ho quietly Informed
the Chester police and, after dispatching tho
two detectives to the scene, the chief of po
lice at Chester notified Prosecutor Kraft.
An immense crowd followed the auto
mobile which carried the pair to the rail
road station. There was also a big throne
at the county Jail when Ashbrldge was
brought there In heavy Irons.
The police believe that Thompson Is still
In Chester and expect to arrest him this
afternoon.
Ashbrldge wan caught two hours after
the reward was offered.
The women who visited Ashbrldge and
Thompson in the jail yesterday have been
eliminated from the case. They proved
to be workers of the Camden Rescue
Mission Society and their visit to the
murderera was part of their regular work.
Recently, the police say, Mrs. Ashbrldge
and her husband became reconciled and
she called frequently to see htm. It Is
believed he told her he was sorry for his
past deeds and looked to the time that he
could return to her and their two children.
Ashbrldge was known as a "ladles' iroan"
and had the knack. It Is said, of arousing
the sympathy of those whom he met.
Mrs. ABhbrldge lived near 26th and Fed
eral streets, but moved yesterday aftejr
drawing money from bank.
Another feature of the case to which the
police are giving much consideration is the
discovery that Ashbrldge sent a letter to a
Mrs. Shelton in Baltimore last Sunday Ac
cording to State Detective Walter S. Le
Tourneau he gave this letter to Howard
Marshall, of X762 South 6th street. Cam
den, with the request that t be mailed
Immediately, Just what connection thUi
woman has with the life of Ashbrldge la ft
matter of conjecture.
' BALTIMORE POLICE NOTIFIED.
The police of Baltimore have been notifies
and will endeavor to locate her
There is also a. probability that a former .
prisoner, who visited Ashbrldge and Thomp
son last Thursday, may be able to throw
some light on the case. A vigorous search
Is being made for him.
Thompson, who was a man of superior
education. Is believed to havo beeq the
master mind In plotting the escape. He
was formerly an attorney and was dis
barred. It is said, for questionable methods.
A Look From Aloft
IT COSTS something to take that
aeroplane trip over Atlantic City,
but for one cent you can gee all that
is to be Been from the airship if you
will buy tomorrow's
In that edition a full page of n-.
rnarkable pictures of the Hoard wa I
and beaco, at me pawing uour, wj
b printed,
ib ii mi iwnrr"T'T-T" if-rfr
fcjjtafcj
