the Weather forecast.
Partly cloudy to-day and to-morrowi
moderate winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, loweit, 68.
Detailed w eather, man and marine report on page 10.
VOL. LXXXIIL NO. 322.
NEW YORK, TUESDAY, JULY 18, 1916. Copyright, lilt, by the Sun Printing and Publishing Asioctntlon.
AMP rVShl''' 'n (irrsdet New Vnrk. 1 Fisewhcr,
KJLHEJ KjEJiy I Jermt City ami Newark, f TWO CENTS.
lTOK ALL "
DR. DARLINGTON
REPORTS GUARD
HEALTH IS SAFE
Solids Hack Word From
Bolder That Militiamen
Arc Protected.
SKKS TUOFSAXns AT
KOKT SA3I HOUSTON
Great Praise tor Work of
.Medical Corps After Hod
Tape Was Cut.
i Siiijf Corrmfoiulent uf This SttN. I
: A.nti'NHi, Tex., July 17. If the i
San A.nti'NHi, Tex., July 17. If the i
wives and motner of 50,000 young rn, Atlantic shallows nnd Inlet that
guardsmen troop along the border are j never before have been frequented by
troubled by a single iloubt regarding the,'1'"" 1 accounted for ! skippers who
t io, health of their boya or apprehen-, have seen hundred of them off ahore
live as to the future, doubt and appre-1 tecently by the shifting of the Gulf
Ierion may be put IlKhtly aside now 1
thw minute.
If they want to know whom to thank,
let them thLnk kindly of the medical
co p of the regular army, a atuff of
fcar.l working, fast thinking gentlemen
vmom no amount of political trickery or
tuv -r.mital muddling or Chilian stu
rldlty ''an daunt or discourage.
No thanka whatever are due to the
JUm. duration nt Washington, which
t tffstently ncgiei ted the Medical Corps'
recommendation until u few week agojduty on International Ice patrol, hIso
the shock of war peril forced It to give tn' ,,,e u,f Stream I out of It usual
tie Medical Corp a free hand. Had ltfuw- Tn,".v account for the lack of
rt been for the splendid fact that thc!b"'"s ' the w"n stream nnd the
tenulsr army doctor foresaw vent ago "ami nlr Just above melting the Ice.
! the situation with which they i Af,,r he Kets "n overhauling the
e now confronted and made ready for i
i, m .nit.. ... .,f.tui t-K..r. ....4 i
tlmony, and were poised for nctlon the
Imunl the Oovernment threw Itself ,
upon their mercy, the situation would Survivor landing In Philadelphia of
to d.fferent. u,f steamship Raanos, which foundered
o Mpanlsh War Kchn. "n the North Carolina coast, said one of
the llfelwats wa capsized a It was
They have saved the border camps . iing launched and Harrv Hlnchman. a
from Hrovvnsville to Nogale a spectacle seaman, was caught bv a shark nnd
ef midlcal and sanitary unprepareJnes dragged under to death. First Officer
such as sickened the country In the day petra Oatra of the Ramos said the
of the Spanish war. I sharks were so thick It was dltllcult at
These are the facts that were Im- times to row. He upccta the lifeboat
piesscd upon the mind of the corre- containing Capt. McGoldrick and eight
tpondent for Tub Sun to-day as he men my have been overturned and ull
accompanied Dr. Thomas Darlington, hands eaten bv shark,
special Investigator for the National, The British steamship Marloneth. In
rivle Federation, step by step as he froln Gibraltar, reported passing an over
quettloned Qen. Frederick Funaton. the i turned lifeboat alxty mile from the
bonier commander; IJeut.-Col. K. I i Highlands .of Navesink, and near It and
Munson. chief sanitary officer of Uen. thence almost up to Ambrose Channel
i uhjivii. dlaii . .(uiMii.i, buiivi hi-
tecdent of th rrMl hasn linnr.lt -il here
ind I he scr uMnfied ever Met? of the'
inn ne scrtitmiieo every oeiau or ine
food situation ami sanitation situation
In the camp of H.000 militiamen at Fort
Sam Houston.
It whs a Job that required every min
ute of nine solid hours. When it was
ine with Dr. Darlington was so com-
. Vcompl s notice
1 o-ii wthlng J
s. mi ever tiling or neaun prci-crvauon
lid hA.lll. ......linn .. .. . i , ... . V. . .
f.i .-li i a
S -t- Mild jccomplish that he frankly
.. .limented Col. Munson, and I pre-:
I.i for the Civic Federation to-nlKht a
I a lis first, which will say that the'
ceiitr eert feel no alarm whatever,
uiMi "nt neium or ine muma troops.
i.nii-ii..M .
I to abandon nusmers. ine scnoonrr n.
Pr l4tlinstoii s report and this sur- v CaBn of ,h, Tampa flHhlng fleet re
' Pi sented by The Sl-n, deal strictly .',,,, to vesterday because the
"" ' w,t" '"c.malters r,f food an -
i"!'" .iiiu mtrmcai prepareunrti. it is
iadj apparent that there lia been
extraordinary blundering and amaxlng
k.iort "lehtcdnesH In the matter of
t:.niioit.itlon of troop to the border
"id In the matter of equipping' them.
There Is already proof that It was the
c v 'ian Incompetency of the Adminis
tration which required the army head
Qinrters to Jam them Into day
cii.ieh seats and end them 3,000 mllea
m mijre to rest nnd leep ns best they
ccutd in the hottest kind of weather;
that .i wa, civilian Incompetency which
fsiled to .isk the Pullman Company for ,
k Mume . ar to relieve the muatlon, that
It as civilian liiconinetenev which
f-illeil to provide any of the militia
troops Mlth cotton uhlrta, with auf
tlcieiit shoes.
Tiu-iu things may lie left for aub
tquent comment.
There .nil be no valid criticism of the
medlcai and sanitary plana or work and
very little Indeed of the food. Where
Dr Darlington began his work to-day,
t Fort Mam Houston, the famou post
three miles north of this city, he found
pT.'ect courtesy and frankness waiting
hi" inquiry. From Uen. Funston down
the line to the kid LleutenantB of the
Medical Corps, there wa a disposition
to open every door, to anawer without
evasion every pointed question.
.oblnr to Conceal.
There wa absolutely nothing to con
eem or to excuse or to palliate. A has
sslii, there are 14,000 troop here
t.c.nnped for seahonliig and Intensive
ttalntiiir It waa an excellent place for
Darlington to begin his Inquiry. The
Problems litre are the problem at
Jlrowntrvllle. Kagle Pass, Laredo and
te Rio,
I.leut -Cnl Munion, known to every
hfllrlan In the United States as a sanl
rary expert, wneted no time In taking
Darlington over the ground. He had a
jnllllon things to do, but ha dropped
them all. 'Com along, Darlington," he
ausheu. "People have an Idea, anyway,
mat It Is our way little brothem In the
rtillery. cavalry nnd Infantry who do
iiy work, and that we simply fatten on
Hie taxpayer "
He stopped list at the camp of the
' irn llllnoi Infantiy, a command which
' regarded In CIiIohko as up to the
Mandnrd of the Seventh Relmnt of
Tork. He pointed out the Utrlne.
rirtlle sources o: disease If Blackly run.
Darlington saw that they were prac
llcally perfect from tho point of view of
t 'id sanitation.
i !7hn t-'ro,ln'' "n which t lilts camp I
ld out Is like flint." said Munson. "It
s Impervious to seepage. The drainage
1 rolilem of ridding the minp of slop from
foon tents and wash basin and batha
l dlincult. We solve It by evaporation."
t hverywhere, rigidly ordered, were lit
nval pita bedded with stone, walled
lh stone, Here refuse wa burned,
H'-re water waa eporated by the heat
''f th' atone, Nowhere were pools of
i'fue water allowed to collect.
There Is severe punishment for the
"inier wno ngntiy rasts anywhere about
turn conicnia or wasp uasln or
slop
Continued on Third Pngt,
AND NEW YORK
SHARKS BROUGHT BY
GOLF STREAM SHIFT
Skippers Report Hundreds of
HK Fish in Water Ad
jacent to New York.
WATKH WARM OFF SHOHK
I.nck of Irclierps Shows (".rent
Current Has Shifted From
Its FsiihI Conre.
he mining of multitudes of sharks
Stream.
Capt. William Jenen of the 'lilted
Krult liner Calamares, from port of
the Caribbean, aw flve big one, nnd
he noted that the temperature of the
eea when he was nlout 200 mile from
Sandy Hook on Sunday night wa 71,
which ha says la unusual for the loca
tlon. lie lit sure the Gulf Stream has
swerved Inahoro and brought with It the
semi-tropical aharka, which he aya may
be with ua until early autumn.
Officer of the coat guard cutter
Tampa, recentlv In from seven mnnth.
nmpa ma experiment in shark ex
! termination.
termination.
Nine Mmy lie Victims.
llnkl.hln n.nr. h.n inn ImvlfM n-mrm
- - V "?
coun,d- '" cf ,nem Tcmiy about!
,w,.v, ...
....... . - I
The
American steamship Charles
Realty, from Nova Scotia, wan at one
time In the middle of an Immense school, I
and from fifty miles east of Fire Island . they were on the American side of the
until he arrived Inside the Hook then,..
lieativ's skinner sav he saw several! Itodrlruei and hi companion assert
'"Ved eharks from' eight to twelve feet
lon- Cnl,t- Meer "f ,h DU,ch """""
,. ... a...
of shark slirhtlita:. The bark Martha, In
from Rio Grande do Sul. sighted a school
of 100 "barks off Fire Island.
...
Force Fishermen to Unit.
j AH along ine cob-h. iriuii wn' nm w i
Ing Island to Florida, reports came j
vesterUr.y that fishermen had been forced
Au anng the coast, from the end of
vesterr.v that
s,.ar.t!l Iohi,ie,l up the hooked fish b.
. a. 1.1.1 I .... .Via Lrub.H ell hf.filP.. I
they could be hauled into tne uoats. . "niraim . ......,, ..
The coaat guard service will not b- the rumor that lie Is to resign or be mu
gin exterminating sharkM along the tered out nx commander of the Rrook-
coast by capturing .no I
tlm. ns sucsested. to protect bathers.
Capt. Carden of the cutter Mohawk, de
tailed to Investigate at Jeraey resorts,
upent Sunday at Asbury Park conferring
with city offlclaU and manager of ho
t.u He renorted to Washington yester-
nav that all agreed that dynamiting
would kill most of the wn woa in in
vicinity of the resorts, ana tnw i
way to protect bathera would be by the
use or aieei nei.
CHASE AT OYSTER BAY.
ii.f...ni.n Wound One of
TTO
ttharksi nntb Kacapr.
Orrrga Dat. N. Y.. July H.-Two
hark were seen In the harbor here
to-day by Allen M. Flower, his brother.
Ilutler. and his father, Frank Flower,
local f.hermen. The men shot at one
of the ea tiger, which swam to the en
trance of Hayville Creek, but the shark,
although wounded, eecaped.
Uayvlll Creek U a favorite place for
swimmer and at low tide I not more
than two and a half feet deep. At the
time tho three Flower sighted the shark
there wa about a nine foot depth of
water In the channel.
While shelling oyster Allan Flower
noticed R commotion In the water out
toward the deepest part of the channel,
a hundred yard from hi boat. Then
ho aw the long gray form of a big shark
laeily coming toward the surface.
The doral fin wa entirely out of the
water a the monater came to tho top
and lowlv propelled Iteelf toward the
water under the Hayville bridge. Mo
tioning to hi brother to hurry ashore
for a gun, Flower kept an eye on the
hark, which swam do to him and then
turned and circled latlly back toward the
open waters of the bay.
Ilutler Flower brought back an old
shotgun and a handful of shell left
over from the duck hunting eaon. The
two men then got Into a Ktnnll tender
and rowed out toward the ahark. get
ting within twenty-live feet of It beforo
firing both barrel at It.
They then came upon another hlg
shark about 300 yard off Oyster Hay
village, but the fish dived before they
could get close enough for a shot.
mile Shot Kali Mark.
HTAnroRii. Conn., July 17. A ahmh
about eight feet long appeared at the bow
of Capt. Charles Godfrey's small power
boat off Shlppan Point hero yesterday
and frightened the occupant badly,
Capt. Godfrey tried to shoot the hark
with a rill', but the flh disappeared be
neath the water.
Wlllcnx Rreliins Post.
William R. Wlllcnx, chlrmHii if the
HepubHclT" National Committee, linH re
signed from the hoard of directors of tho
Merchants Association. HI resigna
tion wa accepted with regret yesterday.
ALLIED BLOCKADE
AGAIN BARS RED CROSS
! ivn I llritain Refuses Ameri
eans IMea to Let Aid
Throuirli to Teutons.
Washington-, July 17.--Oreat Itrllaln
again has refused n plea of the Ameri
can Red Cross for permission to make
conditional shipments of Ile.1 Cross sup
plier to Germany and Austria.
Foreign Secreatary Hrey, In a note
dateil .Inly II nnd made public here
to-night reiterate that the Allied
blockade against suih shipments Is In
accordance with the Geneva convention,
and dertnres there to no evidence that
the supplies are needed In the Teutonic
nations,
Kir Kdward siy Great Ilrltaln can
not entertain a suggestion that Kiippllc
be sent under guarantee that their dis
tribution will be supervised by a satis
factory commission of Americans. Ills
note said :
"Ills Majesty' Oovernment hive no
reason to believe that there I an abso
lute lack In the territory of the Central
Power of the materials required for
Red Crosa mirplle. They have, on the
contrary, every reason to supposo the
reverse, for, to give only one Instance,
not long ago a medical member of the
Austrian General Staff, Prof. Hochenegg.
wrote that there was no shortage and
no prospect of shortage In medicines or
bandage, or even In highly speclnl med
ical remedies.
"In these circumstances It s evident
that if any deflclences In these supplies
exist, as to whkli theio appear to be
no evidence. It must be due to the fact
that the Central Powers prefer to use
the materials for other purposes, nnd
any steps that may be taken to give
them further supplies would conduce,
not to the Increased welfare of the sick
nnd wounded, but merely to et free
larger quantities of ueh materials for
lielllgerent purposes.
"His Majesty's Oovernment does not,
therefore, feel able to create such an en
tirely new precedent as would be consti
tuted by the supervisory commission
suggested by the American Red Cross "
U. S. SOLDIER SHOOTS MEXICAN.
Governor of Vinorn Sends Strong;
I'rolesi to Carrnnsa.
DofQLA. Aril. July 17. Private R.
Tucker, Kletenth I'nlted States infantry,
shot and probably mortally wounded An
tonio Rodrlguei, a Mexlcun musician,
late to-day while the .Mexican and a
companion were making their way
toward the International boundary.
.... ...
lUCKer nsserien mat our in mi- iu-.i
CATrM rln, ,itlll ,hl4t both refused to
.... ... ..,.. .. .., tT.
IIUll .11 tlt I', VJ I ... ...... ...
)can j,0. wln wn, passing on a bicycle
to toll the men to halt, but they failed to
,In . h, mM. and he ooened fire while
they were on Mexican soli when the
'hoo;l"K "W"""'. "n. P Khan Calles
iu.,... mmmnnrier of Sonora. and
Oov. de la Huerta of Sonora to-nignt
ent telecram to Mexico city protesting
In trong term ngninst the "desecration
of Mexican soil and the liberties of Mx
Icans." JANNICKY NOT TO RESIGN.
roinniander of FortysrTrnta S
lie la Home Only to Get Recruits.
Ernest E. .lannlrky. Colonel of the
' , ''7T ;.. '2:
III' iiniirivn, it. i ii" in......
than the fact that ho has returned to
the armory on Marcy nvi-nue to take
care of the details of recruiting.
At present. Alfred Kcke, senior major.
Is In command. The men arc to start
-o-morrow morning on a tnree uaya
u. 'l ,Z
. ,m ',,,1 .
turn at the Peeksklll rltle range
MAJCES EARTH CARRY VOICE.
Cnllfornlan Scientist Announce
Snbterranean Wireless Phone. ,
San Fhancisco, July 17. Dr. H. liar
ringer Cox announced here to-day that
he had perfected a subterranean .wire
less telephone, and that Incidentally he
had discovered a new law of physics -that
electrical energy can be transmitted
over a single conductor.
For the last rive months Dr. Cox ha
been working at I.os Olives, Cal.. with
the United States Forest Service In an
effort to perfect a system of wireless
signals for forest flren. It was while
o engaged, he said, that he discovered
the possibilities of transmitting the hu
man voice through the ground. He will
leave In a few day for Washington.
MINERS TO STAY AT WORK.
r.(,)(M Mm In I'lttsbnrg Dlatrlct
Vote Xat to Strike.
Pinui.'ric), July 17. The special con
vention of ebllumlnnu coal workers from
district No. 6, United Mine Workers, In
session here to-day, voted ngalnst a
strike being called here.
The convention ratified nn agreement
reached with the Pittsburg Coal Opera
tor Aoclatlon by n special committee
representing the International executive
committee. Fifty thousand miner will
remain at work In the Pittsburg dis
trict ns a result of the nctlon of the con
vention. SELL OUT TO UNIVERSAL FILM.
Larmnilr anil Power Get H,000,-
OOn fnr liirhansri,
Cnn-Ann, July 17. An Important an
nouncement wa made hy tho Universal
Film Company to-day that President
Carl Laemmlo and Treasurer P, A.
Powers had Hold out their exchangee to
that company for J 1,000,000, When the
Pnlversal was formed several year ngo
theo two men retained their exchanges
In the Woat nnd middle Wot and until
now they hud operated them Indepcn-
jilently of the company.
Tre exchanges In Iluffalo, Cleveland,
Cincinnati, Indlannpnll and Albany were
owned by Power, who wa the eecond
largest stockholder In the Universal,
Liemnilo owned the exchanges In Mln-nc-apolls,
Dee Moines, Umaha an4
Chicago.
QUARANTINE ORDER ;
IN PLAGUE FIGHT I
Slackening of Epidemic Js
.Marked by Most Drastic
Action Yet.
5 XKW CASES; I t HEATHS
Mayor Allays Alarm f In
tending Visitors Other
States on Alert.
Another decline yesterday In the num
ber of new victims of Infantile paralysis
and alo In the number of deaths gave
such encouragement to Health Commis
sioner Haven Kmerson that he was In
clined to believe that the crejt of the
epidemic ha been passed,
"We look upon the diminishing nutn-
I ber of new cases and deaths In the last
few day frotn Infantile pHrnlsls," said
the Commissioner lost night, "as evidence
that we are reaching the cases earlier,
that we are controlling them better and
that the epidemic Is on the wane."
Saturday and Sunday being holidays,
when doctors are likely to be out of
town, nnd families as n rule do not seek
out the family physician. It was the opin
ion of the health authorities that the
number o cases reported to-day might be
larger The Information, however, was
obtained that not nearly so many sus
pected cases of the disease were ri ported
early yesterday to the department, nnd
that the returns from the diagnosticians
and nurses In the field were also fewer
than on the previous Mondnj
.No llelaxlnar of Effort.
While Dr llmerson was looking hope
fully forward to fewer cases to-dny,
neither he nor hi associates were ielax
Ing their fight on the epldemli Having
obtained additional scientific facts con
cerning the germs of Infantile paralysis
and hnvlng made certain Investigation,
Dr. Kmerson was becoming more severe
In certain directions. At a meeting of
the Hoard of Health In the afternoon a
resolution wa passed quarantining all
children under 16 "In families where
case of poliomyelitis have occurred until
two week after the termination of the
case by death, removal or recovery of
the patient."
Dr. Emerson explained that the best
observation had convinced the experts
that the period of Incubation of the t
genus might xtend to more than ten
idays, though formerly the oplrlon wa
'that the Incubation took place In from
fhe to seen das He said fu'ther
that nfter a child Is athlcted and ie.
cover he Is kept In quarantine for
1 about eight weeks. Accoidlngly. If n
baby Is kept at home, the children
therein are quarantined for two weekn
after the child Is pronounced free of
. germ.
The Health Depirtm-t will have;
the cooperation of the police In en-1
forcing the quarantine. Kvery patrol-'
man in the Infected districts will re-'
celve the addres of the case on hls(,
beat nnd he will be required to cull
at the house or apartment once or twice
a div to mike sure that the quarantined
children are at home.
Visitor Meed Xat Keer.
I Maor Mltchel, arou'ed by the fear,
among person outside of New York
that il visit to this city would expose.
, them to the danger of contracting or
carrylng away Ir.fnntll" paralysis, Issued1
a statement to show that such loiviriii
was groundless.
"This fear," lie sold, "is leudlng ni3ny
'people who normally have business to I
I transact In this city to stay away.
The Commissioner of Health has placed (
In my hnnd the following comparative ,
statistics, which demonsttato that there ,
I not the cause for alarm, either within .
or without the city, which has seeim-d '
to he growing during the past few davs;
"Comparing the mortality rate of In-,
fanta under one year duilng the week
Just closed with the corresponding week ,
last summer, we find that the late of
death of that week last summer retire-1
sented a yearly death rate of 100 out of1
every 1.0UO. while during the week Just '
closed the rate of death lepresent
$6.6 out of every 1,000. In other words,
the Infant death rate of the whole city
wa lower last week than during the
same week lnt year.
I "During the past week two rases of
Infantile paralysis were reported from
' tho Chelsea district, which Includes a
1 large part of the viotel and shopping
dUtrlct and both the Grand Central and
Pennsylvania stations. It has a popula
tion of more than 160,000. This la about
the site of Atlanta, Ua., or Oakland,
Cal. Does any one suppose that two
cases In either of those cities would
! cause alarm?"
i
vr Caere, l.1 Deaths, 14.
i Tho confidence of potn nr. Kmerson
.and the Mayor was based on tho Htatls
tics Issued by the Health Department In
the morning. They showed nlncty-Ilve
new case and fourteenth deaths, making
the third elay In which a decrease was ,
roported. Ilrooklyn had fifty-live new i
leases; Manhnttan, eighteen ; Queens,
twenty, Tho lironx and iiicnnionu, one i
each. There were seven deaths In Ilrook-1
lyn, three In Manhattan nnd two each
In The Uronx and Richmond. I
Tho Increasing number of cases in
Manhattan of late ha given cause for
concern. There was one cae reported
in Wet nnd avenue, but It was In the I
1 lower section The twenty now case In I
Queen also gave uneasiness, but It was
nnnounced that tho new Queensboro Hos
pital will tie ready to handle sixty case
of Infantile paralysis. Dr. Kmerson ha
assigned additional doctors and nursea
to both Queens and Richmond,
The statistics of yesterday tiling the
i total number of caies up to 2,0M and
tne neaaii io inn. ui .ne aurvivuiK i,ei,is
victim more than CO per cent, nrn In
hospital, Dr Kmerson ald that Kings
ton Avenue, Uilliird Purker and River-
! side had 896; that Swinburne has 21
jcase; private hospitals, 22C, and the
Charities una jiciiuvun nospuais, u
total of 1,022 caseH. Ho said that more
than 1,000 beds additional are available
should the epidemic spread,
Whtl tho epidemic Is on New Toik
will be kept a potles place, Police
Commissioner Wood and Street Clean
ing Commissioner Fetherston, after a
Continued on Fnuith Vuyt,
BRITAIN BLACKLISTS
MANY FIRMS IK u. S.
Enemy Trndinir Act Extended
Only to More Palpalilc
Offenders.
UK! I) KM AND FOR ACTION
French Policy, Which Rars All
Irrespective of Domicile,
Frircil.
I.onoov, .Tulv 17 Th Rrltlsh Gov
eminent to-morrow will publish n llt
of fiom seventy to ctehty business linns
m.l Individuals domiciled In the United
States with whom residents of the United
Kingdom arc forbidden to trade.
This will be the ilrt time that any
American firm have been placed on the
statutory list, which I better known ns
"the trading with the enemy act black
I,t " All other countries have been rep
resented for some time
I.amlng WwTttilngton Evan. Controller
of the foreign trade dfjiai tmetit of the
Foretell Ofllci-, to-dav issued the follow
ing explanation of tho latest extenlon
of "Hie ti..dlng with the enemy act":
"It has been the policy of the Hritlsh
(ioveriimetit In the poet to follow the
theory In forbidding its subjects to
trade with an enemy that enemies domi
ciled In friendly rountrle did not cum'
under the act. France and variouM coun
tries hold the doctrine that their na
tionals cannot trade with an enemy, no
matter what lis domicile
Mure Drnsilc Policy I raej.
"Modern cond'tlcns of credit and
commerce make It possible for nn enemy
outside belligerent territory to trade with
this country Theieforo a cons.-ii-ra'.le
body of opinion m th s country urged the
iovernment to aUindn Its traditional
iloct-ine. and tho Foreign Olllce, whlie
not going lo this extreme, decided simplv
to prohibit person domiciled In the
United KiiiKdom fiom tr:rJ.ng with a
limited number of !ml.v-lu.il, firms or
companies of enemy nationality or as
sociation under the same penalties as
though they were trading with an
enemy."
Tho statement continues:
"It will be clear that this policy Is
purely a piece of domestic legislation
which only Interferes with trade, even
In the t aees of specified concerns, hy
prohibiting pcieons domiciled In the
Unlti-I Kingdom .'rom deallnc with these
concerns. It Is a c.iiii-quence simply and
solelv of the exen le of the risht of
the State to 1'mlt or control In the In
terests of the State the trade relations
of Its own subjects.
"As legards the Un ed States list
this may roughly be dlv.ded Into four
,"I.isi.s ;
"First -German films - th bead o'llr
or . ontri 1 I:- urinn:i.
-Must II r liiink OrTrndrrs.
"Second Girinaii Ilrms Ircorporated
111 the Un.ted State s mid therefore tech
nically American entitles We have
dealt with thene firms mi their merits.
In thi-se i aes sumet'ing m tc ha been
required tu qj.il'fy tli'ill for the statu
turj list thr.ii German nationality
either asilstir.g the eiifiny by loins, prop
.iLMtulu or In regard to contraband.
"Third -1'. pt In so far as covered
by the tlrt or ecuiid qualifications,
I'nlted S'ate citlrens as a rule have not
been placed on the list. If any are there
It Is because they ate sole agents for
enemy Arm resUh nt hi enmy territory.
"l'ouith When, however, clear ubure
of cable facilities has been proved a
tlrm or Individual may be found on the
!lt. Hy abuse is meant the use of a
secret code or of cloaks to cover the fact
that cables are belnc used In a particular
Interest In V5ry few such enses will
there be found to be United State citi
zen" "
STATE DEPT. MAY ACT.
Hut nlse-rlnilnal Inn Vuiilnst A inert-
run .11 ul Appenr.
W vslIiMiTON, .Ian 17 III tin-aliseme
of diiiills regarding the action of the
Hrltish Government In placing buslines
firm" and Individuals In the 1'nlte.l
State.s on the so-colled Hading with the
enemy blacklist. State Department of
ficials to-night were unable to determine
their nttltude, There were Indications
Hint new diplomatic representations
would result should It develop that
Amorlrnti cltlxens or firms were facing
discrimination.
Official regard It ns a clear principle
of International law that business firms
jusume the nationality of the country ln
which they are domiciled. An Amerlcnn
corporation, even If controlled by foreign
capital, I entitled to be protected from
discrimination, otllclals consider. Hut the
State Department recognliea that Great
Ilrltaln ha n right to Instruct her na
tional not to trade with enemy subjects.
Tho principle Involved In the trading
with the e nemy act already has been the
subject of an Ineffectual protest by the
I'nlted States.
THREE ALLIED SHIPS SUNK.
Two llrltlal. nnd One llnllan Vei
led Itrpiirtrel Lost.
London, July 17. Llo.vd's reports the
Rrltlsh steamer Kuphorbla, the Italian
steamer Slrra anil the steamer Virginia
(probably Hritlsh) sunk.
The Kuphnrbln nicnBiireel 3.R37 tons.
Fhe was built in 1907 and belonged to
the Stag Lino, Ltd.. of North Shlehls,
She wa last reported bound from Cal
cutta, Juno 4, for London.
The Slrra was last reported having
passed Gibraltar Juno 27, bound from
Not folk for Genoa.
The Rrltlsh steamer Virginia wn of
4,379 tons, wa built In 1901, and be
longed to the Virginia Steamship Com
pany of Glasgow. She wn last ro
ported arrived at Marseille June 18
from Santa f'ru, Cuba,
Iltisslnna Sink (irrninn Ship.
London, July 17. Router's Stockholm
correspondent report tho winking by a
Russian submarine of the German steam
ship Syria. Her crew and Svvedlth pilots
were rescued,
The Syria was of 8,(107 ton gross nnd
wa SC feet lone Klin was built In US!
and was owned In Hamburg.
GERMAN STAFF ASKS
FOR PUBLIC'S FAITH
Calls Enemy's Reports "Fan
tastic Hymns of Victory
That Mock Truth."
London, July IS. The Ocrnian Gen
eral Stiff has Issued an appeal to the
people of Germany for confidence In
the conduct of the war, according to
a Rotterdam despatch to the Dalit
.Wirs.
"Never has the world experienced
anything so nupendous a the present
battles," say the appeal. "Never has
an nnny braved what ours bun braved.
'The enemy Is sending out every few
hours claim to have taken village",
woods and thousmd of prisoners in
roports that are no longer couched In
the language of eotdleis, but are fan
tastic hymns of victory that mock
truth In an effort to undermine Ger
man confidence."
PEACE PARTY IN HUNGARY.
('lint lvroll Forms e Move
ment to llnd llostlllllr.
I-nvnoN. July 1'- Count Mlchind Ka
ro'yl bus resigned from the presidency of
the Hungarian Independence p'trty, n -cording
to n Hildapest dopab h to the
Mornlnii Po', and will form a ncwpir'y
which will demand lmmedl.Ue peace be
tween Hungary and Its enemies, with or
SA.thout the consent of Germany and Aus
tria. Count Knrolji' p'.ne party, the des
patch adds, will start with n membership
of sevintv memlieis of the Hungarian
Parliament.
Count Micha-1 Karolyl caud a sensa
t'on In the Hungarian Parliament In De
cember, lf'15, when he demanded that
the Government should make peace pro
pieals to tho enemy iKiwer.s.
The Ilii(lapet corrcepundent of the
Lqndon '( quoted Count Karol.v 1 as
contending that llungai hid iniiievcd
everj thing she dee. red by the war, had
eiived the louutry from invasion and
bad tireserled tlu mnn.it-iiiv and throne
land that the Hungarians had a perfect
right cmie forward with their claims
for compensation.
He argued fuither tint the political
unity uf tho Hungarian nation should be
recognized , that all the attributes of a
rational state, as well as economic In
dependence, should be granted, and that
above all peace should be restored.
CASEMENT'S APPEAL ON.
Ills menisci A runes Stnttitr
Do
Not t'eevrr III Offence.
Lu.Ms.iN, Jul 17 -A new ehapt-r
opened to-da In Sit linger Ci"emetit's
leuai light agaiimt being executed for
I ,en treason for hi a. tlvitles in the
Dublin lev oil when Ills ca.se reached the
Court of Criminal Appeul. Justice Dar- j
ling, by reason of lis snilorlti n King's
lletich JuJe, pri'Sided. vvita Justice",
!!:.! and Scrutton on his right and Jus-1
tlci Lawrence and Athtn on lni left.
Hy w.ecni nermlBsicni tiir Riser wasi
liu.-M.nt He wa-. att.ied In a lounge
suit III" face has aesiimcd
since he appeared for trial.
Ikillor
..
Sir Roger's counsel e mpli.isi. -.1 the
technical point that the law y.ivi mini:
treason does not include nn diffuse of
.idherluar to the Kliur's em tniii outside
of the lealm He said the awieal would
involve two quesuons, e irsi, wucim-.
'the in-.tter ele. it bed 111 the
,.i,,. his
I In truth an crffence vvltulu tie
ta tne
cneu. eeconii, wnemer me eieiiuuio.i ui
the offence, adhering to the King s e ne
tnles, given nt the readliw of tho trial,
w i.s an ncuinte detlnlllon or defective
as an Insti notion to the Jury
PACIFIC MAIL RUNS AGAIN.
Three ships lluuitht fur Mun!lil
oalllnc tit Orient.
The P.v Iflc Mall Steamship C.impanv,
which la-t vear gave up lt service be-
tween San Fralicl'co and the Orient, sell-
, In? Its fleet at a profit tu the interna
i tlonal Mercantile .l.sei".e, announced
. ye-ie-ruay Illi.l ll wni.ii. leeiinic uu-ine-.-.
' in ine 1'acinc in vmistusi.
R. Grace & Co.. hns acpilred three ship,
from the Royal Dutch West India Mall
Company, the r.cuador. Venezuela and
-1'nn nninnnr miiv rim n.i le.i unn .
Colomhla. navlnc 11.100.000 for each
There will be monthly fallings from San
Franclsso, beginning August ID.
The company sold It original ship
alleging that the La Follette reaman's
act made It Impossible to run them
without n loss. Now, nn olllcial of the
lino said esterday, the Use In fieUht
rates had offset to some extent the del
eterious operation of the net.
BREAK JAIL AND KILL KEEPER.
reunite-11 Prisoner ilsei Wound
mother Oilli'lnl.
Camiikn. July 17- Wilson s A"h
brldge, accused of thn murder of a
chorus gill here Inst January, and
George i:. Thompson, another prisoner,
escaped to-night from tho Camden
county Jill, after nhootlng to death
James Olbbs, a keeper, and wounding,
probably mortally, Joseph Kills, another
keeper.
In some manner the prisoner got n
regulation army revolver. No trace of
them has been found. Ashbrldgo Is 20
year old nnd Thompson 12. Roth men
were awaiting trial.
$30,000,000 A DAY FOR BRITAIN.
C'bnncrllor tie-port to Common on
Huge Kxpendllnrr.
IiNpoN, July 17 Rrltlsh expendl
turcs have now- rrarhed .1 total of more
than 6,000,000 ( J30,000,000) dally, ac.
cording to a statement made by Reglnnld
McKenna, Chancellor of the Kxcheciuor,
In the House of Common to-dny.
AllU-Clinlnirr Ktrlkr On.
Mll.WAUKtiK, Wis, July 17. A strike
to start to-morrow mornlnir In thu plant
of the Allle-ChalmerH Company heiewas
voted to-night at n meeting of 1,200 ma
chinists. This dtolrluii was reached af
ter conferences hotween Gov, Phlllpp
and representative of the maciilnlsi
had fulled to settle the dispute, The ma
chinist demand nn right hour day with
no decrease in wages.
RUSSIANS KEEP UP
ONSLAUGHT IN EAST'
Capture 3U Officers and 12,
:J7 Men in Volhynia Alone,
Says Official Report.
(JER MAN'S WITHDRAWING
Army of Gen. von Linin:en
Forced to Retire Before
Fury of Opponents.
I.ONHO.V, July 17. The Russian ad
vance westward against tho fortress of
iKovel and southwestward agalnt the left
wing of Gen. von Hothnier's army con
tinued with marked success yesterday,
according to the otnVi.il Russian state
ment. In Volhynia alone the Russians
took 2H ottlcers and 12.C.17 men,
The army of Gen. von Llnslniceti, which
has bi-cii opposing Russlnn attacks on
the left wirg of Gen. von Hothnier's armv
which Is defending Lemberg, th" capital
of Gallcla, w as compelled by the f il" y of
the Russian mucks, to withdraw' across
the l.tpa. River, about twenty-five miles
southwest of Lutsl: forties".
Refore retiring :i 'to the liver, thus
leaving Von llothuicf s (lank more open
to Rusnliu attack, the army of Gen. von
Llnsingen stubbornly resisted, losing
large numbeTs In ki.bd and wounded
Tho withdrawal was finally made In
some coiif uhk.n, as the Germans were
compelled to leave behind them 2 1 gun.
Including I; heavy pieces, H machine
guns, a few thousand Htles and other
booty. The Ru.'Maus captured m battles
In this region 2'i ottlcers and r,,71 men.
Later tile total of Russian prisoners
around the lower I.lp.i region was ln
creavd by .M olkcers and 2,1!.1 men.
The re t. lenient of Gen. von Llnsingen'"
forces lr admitted in the olllcial German
statement, wlmh a that tin, with
drawal was made after the German
troops by a counter attack had halted the
Ru
ian auvance. The movement, which,
according to Herlln. was executed with
out molestation, was made "In order to
n .r e'1, ,n," U.rn.C,'i'm:: .:n" "
ronitil
Gen' von 1.1'ngen f'ron, dU,rlrt" "
Russians Win loiiit t. ML.lod.
Ac ordlng to Petrogrid. the Russian
troops alonit the .Htokhod have also
made progres .Iore than 1.000 Ger
man and Austrian prisoner have been
taken, as well as two heavy and three
...in rtinii., macnine guns and
other
oiuj. jn an, tne Jtusslan
captured ln
in
section yesterday seventeen hun.-v.
puns and thirteen ll.hter models and a
great number of machine gun.
The Russian Invasion of Muncary
from southwestern Hiikowiti.-i has he-
Ki"V-, "tMt'1 thiU ln "'" direction
of Klrllbaba. In the heart of the Cartu-
.,. '"' ',"'., " " Austrian
17 .". ' ' eapiured. js.
c.intured.
I i-I.HI I.I1.I1IV llliri r..Vl4T ,.T I. l.nr.1..
cavairy
have advanced along
.MnriiiarooltlKi.t road
the Klrllbaba
In Hi" evreme northern front n.nr
iiis-ii, lcii iviiropatKln'.s troop", afer
skirmishes wlii the German", took part
of a section of first line trenches p.nf.
I i,n ri.ports that lively fight!
rt'Ports that lively lighting took plai e
' m
I . i. .i ......i..- err
; of Riga by a Zeppelin,
" "" ri ii.iii ii in. mivn
There weie no deve onments in tli
operations aioun.l Haranovi.-hl, whure
the army of Crown Prince Leopold of
.ii ii .-i linioMnii me nus ,111 nrreti.
slve.
Rnsaliu, li-meii In rtntllc.
The Petrngrad War Ohio .. .1,.
t
f dlnwlK account of an aerial battle:
in nn aerla i cht above the .n.w.i
posltloas wet of Dvlnsl: our aviator"
distinguished themselves, pilot Puclikel,
with t)b"erver Kovenl.o, while reconnoi
tring beyond Abell w.i" sinMerilv at-
t. tel. I'll fliini 111.. ran 1... .. i
l'ol.l-er K.i.nl.(. .nu I . . i. .1
hunt, but our macluiii' turned bu-k and
our nviehii,.. i,ri I...V. .... i
iiiuieae. t-ie eneniV, plltt'llg him to
11 irnu rneii our mm iiin.i
Ollflllll.nl
I e. iiiimiii ri iir n,ii (.n,....!.., I i . .
I "Heyond Rakll,kl the Foltker ncaln
I . attacked thu earn., machine succeesfu
Mio'.s chiMiui much serious ,ln,n.. itl
1 the latter fedor n,.. 11 ..t ..-..e.
gun- the Foltker quickly disappeared
lull null, return...! .,n,l C,- . I. J.
- . i.ii.i. inner 1
m.Mo,,,. i-.l.....,. ' . . e
attacked our
.....eiin,., ii.,i-
w .T nstnnfltnt- ti s ivinn.! .0.. 1 t
holn in the rullntnr f,h,.'
enemy's shot and prevented a elKiMer.
. . 7i me
lie was wounded ;i second time In
the stomach bv a bursting shell, hut
despite the s-erlnus wound continued his
work He lay down nt a machine gun
au-l ,t gin a began firing. The Cokker
ellsnppeaioil and Puclikel irradu-e lly
planed homeward, nrrhing safelv at tho
aerodrome with Kovenko despltei the
cannonade,"
RUSSIAN LOSSES HEAVY.
lle-rlln Puis I'naunltlr nl
.'Ill'.tlOO
onirer nnd Men.
Itr.r.t.iN, July 17 fby wlrelen, to Say
vllle) "According to olllcial report
from Petrogrnd," says tin- Overseas Newn
Agency, "In thn period between the be
ginning of the Riip.in urfetislve nnd
July t the number of those killed leached
t4,9O0 olllcers and 24S.O0O men. Ineln,i.,.i
among the olllcers wein 17 generals and I pared to aciiilesce In Hie advlco of Ita
29 regimental commanders." ,,,. Ministers, such as IMrelmi Score.
Advices frniii .Stockholm Hay that the ' larv Grej i.i.d Cli..ncull..- of thn l.
Russlnn l-lnancn Minister, having failed I elie'uiie.r McKenna, who aro pubiiuly ex
to oblaln a loan from Knglanel nnd 1 horllng to the. nation tlm meM of p.i
Fian. e, undertook negotiations with ' Hence
ImnkerH In tlin United States, wiilch also i .Mr McKenna m I'.u ho ne ,t m.dav
",l,'r'',l . , , . . ali-o Intimated tint it w mil I bnnmo
l.ngland declared that lbs cost f the ' neoessai y this week t.. a-k I'.irllameiit
war lo hcihcir had leaihed such a point 'fur frr'h beeiiowrg iu
that It had become Impossible tn k. !
he r Allies.
The Russlnn newspaper tlrrh, com
nietiihur on this situation, most violently
Insulin American for their "egotism"
saying that at last "Hie mask of Hym-
....llii f..r lh Allies ),,, i -
!.. '."' " lrn"i,
,nr,r
. 7TZ .
nouoln t.et a l.onn Here.
nmliiTA. Colombia Jul.v 17 A -.,n.
tract lias been signed bv the municipality
of Riigota and a New York flnanclnl con.
rem under which Rogota will obtain a
loan of K.,000,000, The loan will be sc-
cured by the public utilities of th.volty,
ALLIES WIN BIG
NEW DRIVES ON
ALL THE FRONTS
jViOO Yards of (ii-niians'
I SitoixI Lino.
I
. A MUNCH IX SojIMK
' AD.MJTTKI) liV HKKLIX
Captured J'apcis Show
Jlijrli J'rii'i'.s tho Teutons
Arc J'a.viii-.
Itl.'SSIAXS ALSO PUSH
UXSIXC.K.X JJACK
Xow Near Crest (if Albert
JMatean and Third Line
of tlie Knein.v.
LovihiV, July 17. The successes of
tile Kiiteiite; Allies am following each
other with gnat ripidlty. To-day brought
news of further Important gains for
them on both the western and ta-itern
front'.
The despatch of Gen. sir Douglas
llalg In-day shows that the steady pres
sure of the Hrltish arms Is forcing an
ever deepening salient Into the German
lines, and the commander-in-chief for
the tit st time produces evidence In the
shape of documents eyiptured from the
Germans giving testimony iu to the high
price the I id nuns ato paying in cas
ualties. Giiln on W'hiilt- lreut
Tho Hrltlth have improved their posl
t on along the whole of their lino of
the battle front, capturing by assault
1,500 yarels of German hecond line po
sitions north of the Hazentlu-lc-Petlt
wood, a strong German position at tho
Watcrlot farm, between Longueival and
! Gu.llemont. beside completing the
ot ,no whol "r lh village of
! OvUUr" la. Uolsselle' 8S0 b""
inn 4ii nimi iiuuusi iu uio crcttl ot 1114
Albert plateau, where stretches th Ger
man third Hue.
In local actions during the rain and
mist the Hritlsh have captured addi
tional German prisoners lit tho Somnm
region, and brought their total since July
1 up to IS'.' ottlcers and 10 77!i men eif
other rank, ln addition. 17 h. aw and
133 lighter guns have fallen into thu
Hrltish hands during this period, not
counting many not jet brought In and
others destroyed by bombardments.
IIIk Drive In Cut.
The news from the eastern front to
day was equally Important. The Rus
slaii lomniander, Gen Kuropatkln, han
lauiuhej an offensive, .igaliwt Field
.Murt-hal veil lllndenburg on tho Dwina
Rln-r, and Gen, vuti I.iusitigfn'H trooi
souiiiwtsi in i.uinn nave been compelled
to retlru behind the l.tpa River, while
In the course e.f Sunday s lighting In
Vullivnla th Hussl 11I1S l-.llltlimrl .,t ,l-
ditloiial 13.000 jerlbuiiers and thirty gun.-
..iu-i.iisi.-ii a reiireineni, ac-
ciiiiiiuir hi me i-eiroti.ui miiit.'iri- .rue.
represents a giea- Jtusslan tactual sui
ictual suc-
.ess It
wn.s piecvded Ly heavy light-
lug In whuli 'he Rus-iaiis smashed th
Teuton trout nn a w.dlh of a mile ami
ici eirat.a several in ra nto the r noai.
turn".
' llethn aniiouni,e an Increasingly
' heavy bombard-m nf the German lines
b' . I,rltlsJ.1 "ur"1 "f the Somina
region, the lite at many points between
""- '" -' ee., ri
to 11 degree' of
great .nteiisltv, In the
Somme sector
admits Hrltish
wood.
the Herlln War Ofllco
lieiieiratiuii ot Ovillers
Kmperor illiam s n-porttd at th
I iroiu 111 1110 .sollime sector.
tne vermin region tne- French have
been on the aggressive!. Following up
sue. esses vesterdav- west of Floury.
i southwest of Vaiix. thev gained ad-
,m'c"1'11 Kmund la"t night In the smm
; rv"ion- capturing three machine guns In
their advance. In Lorraine, eoutheast
of .Nonieny, t'.vo German n'tackj vvero
"
' IMrU IIII110I ItlCI'd tl.l
anillng of an
I additional contingent of Russian troop
, . ,,.. ,,,, ,,,,., r..t-nrdlni- linsliin
' troops 111 Fl'.ltl. c inutilities to bet
1 ,,,,,.,
nlllclally reporteil, A trench In tho
Champagnn region occupied by them
was raided by t'uo German lust night,
but a counter attack by tho Russian
lesulted In Us recovery and lienvy cnnu
alttlesi lulllcteil upon the GeriiiaiiH.
IIhIIuos Hole (iroanil.
Heavy attacks bv tho Au.-rlani
ngalnst the Italians In thu upper Posliu
Viilloy pioved iinuvnlllng In bendlnif
back the line of the Italians, who In a.
cuunter attack In which thorn was hand
to hand lighting repulsed the Austrian"!
over the entire) flout,
Thn war in now costing Great Ilrltaln
CCOOO.OOu (J30.000.000) dally, but, with
such newH as the success of tho Kntento
AIIIch this saciltlco Is not grudged hern.
While the powirs of endurance of tho
Teutonic allies, should they bo forcnl to
act entirely on tne ib tensive, ntivn still
to bn tented, thu lliltisli nation is full of
confidence, It is, imwevn, fully pre -
IWSSIASS HUSY IX WEST.
Ite-iiiilse lii-rmnii surprise A Unci. B
Ihr 4 hiiniimune District.
ii.,m. July 17 Th" eieiiiiiiis nt
I tempted a suiprin. aftal. last night
niralnsl the Rilisl.in troops who recently
, ' ," l, . ,, IMIt f the French line
.,. liimti.igue 'Jiie Pussmns met the
German asenu 1 vvnh i
which br.'Ue it up ai d
iiiiter attack
I los.se te
the leernnns
On the east bank of the M'',',;','1 th
Veidun ftpnl. the l-iemii continues tea
