- ' y ; Y v ' : ;. . r.i . 0 : V.." --- - . .. v,J. N ' 1 - v.:.", K '
:vi::::.:ays v.nrnzr -j.y 001Sf 'CnST t:' 7 unsr caoed sdcar qcotatons -;U
i tf. 8. EATHEJi bureau 1 ' i 1 --n V I a- I I .x YJVY I fflOi I 1 I I -(Til V ' 0ta Dn . " ' " '
; ", ! , wf"". ' ly': ;;y:;r4,r 1 v'l : - vrr',f .:.Nr- ..Nf 4 Nf ...... ...... Mo'na .fv;';-
"7 'N HAWAII , TERRITORY, ; ' UESD AY, JULYr 18,' 116.'-SEMl(-WEEKLY. ' WHOLE NUMRKR ' '
m m mi
Seventy Or Eighty individuals and
Business Firms f lii United
States' Are , To Be Put On
Trading With Enemy Blacklist
' ; t ....
WASHINGTON WILL AWAIT
DETAILS BEFORE ACTING
State Department Officials Frank
ly Puzzled By News But Be
lieve- Diplomatio Exchanges
Are To Follow England's Movg
AMeetM Tnf Mini Win!.)
tASHINOTON. July 1 Unoffl-
W anooaneinient from Lon
ao that ' th WritUft govern
meat lntd t publuh today list of
bunne lirm In the United States,
with whirh BritiiV bluiana hounei ia
the United Kingdom i are forbiddea to
trade, puled the offlotfela of the atate
departmeat and the adminiitratioa gen
erallr. , - a. . . i' '
The atate department aaaouneed that
it waa unable m ret to make any eoaa-
atenr upon tie British piatkliit, ae it
lacked all detaila and the. attitude of
the British government toward the in
diridnaU and bad new houaea ia Amer
ica &ffBcted br the ed eannot be de
termini until 'Vfitmi eoaniulrioiHteft
been had with, the British authori
Many Zlnna Are AiTecUd
It is understood that between serenty
and eighty Individuals and business
Arms are named ia the official blacklist,
waicn bans utterly all business deal
ings win me eoaeerns mentioned by
aay concern or individual doing bust-
mm in the United Kingdom.
A , This is the first tithe that such a boy
eott has beea declared against Ameri
can-domiciled eonceras 'since the out
break of this war, although Arms in
other countries have been placed On vhe
trading with the enemy blacklist, de
spite the pretests 6( the governments of
the countries affected.
nance Has Set Precedent
It is unofficially explained that
other countries hold thst their nation
als cannot trade with the enemy, no
matter wnat country that enemy may
be living in at the time of the trans
action, and that the British author!
tics have now deeided to adopt a simi
lar ls,w. .
While the state department officials
are unable to spesk definitely retrard
ing the attitude of the government, it
is regarded here as practically assured
mat rrenn oipiomatie negotiations with
Qreat Britain will be opened as soon
as it is soen that American citizens are
interfered with or discriminated
against by the order. In the ease of
aliens in the United Htates a nice
point of law ia raised and none ef the
officials woulu make any statement regarding-
the " possible notion of the
American government.
Question of Nationality Raised
It is believed here, however, that the
principles or international, law take it
for granted that a business firm as
sumes the nationality of the country
in which it ia dolag business. It ie
a matter that has not some up for con
sideration We, although the United
etatee government has ineffectually
pruieniea priore mis against the work
ing of the trsding with the enemy aol
and the principle involved.
THREE STEAMERS SUNK
IN EUROPEAN WAR ZONE
(AsaoeUted Vress by redersl Wlrslsss.)
LONDON, July 18. Uoyds an
nouuoed last night that word has been
received of the sinking of the two Brit
ish steamers, Euphorbia and Virginia,
and the Italian steamer Hirra. The
Euphorbia, uuder the eommand of Cap
tain Stevens, left Calcutta for London
Juue 4. Hue measured net tuns.
The Virginia measured 87UO toss and
the birrs, which sailed from Norfolk,
June 8, for Gibraltar and Genoa, meas
ured 2030 not tons.
DR. SUN YAT SEN MAKES
PUBLIC POLITICAL VIEWS
(IsecUl Ckbl.craa to Klppa 'jlJL)
TOKIO, July 18 Dr. Bun Yat Sea
has made public bis views on the politi
es! future of China, iu a formal an
nouncement published yesterdsy in
Hhanghai, according to information
which reached this city yesterday. The
publication haa aroused iutans) inter
est ia all political circles, ooth in China
and Japan, where fragments of the
documents have been received.
EQjDQN
Giilf Sireattf: Has
Carried Tropical
FisK Into 'North
Master of Trading Ship Tells of
Phenomenon Which May Ac- .;
; count For, Sharks
. (Assedstod rrees by redersl Wlntas.) ;
TOBK;rJuly That afforls
to eiterminate the sharks ef the man
eating species which ar tfwarmlng off
the New York ahd New Jersey eoasts
are bound to W futile, is the opinion
ef Capt. -William Jensoo, commander
of' trading vessel, and Secretary of
tne rtsvy vaaieis,' out ror entirely ur
ierens reasons. , . , t
Captain Jensoa last night, shortly
arier sis arrival here from the South,
declared that the Gulf Btream has
eaangea its eouree and that it baa
.brought millions upon millions of trop
ical fish of all sorts into Northern
waters where they never were before.
ine snarka, he believes, are among
oiuer varieties or these ash.
' fie believes that all sorts ef tropical
fish soon win abound in the waters off
the New Jersey and New York eoeeta.
Secretary Daniels yesterday declared
that he believe the campaign against
the sharks is utterly impractical, and
should be dropped at' once. ." '
GERMANS MDii!G -1HJAPAHFIB
, (Special Cable te Hawaii Hecni)
TOKIO, July 17 German business
firms in China, unable to import any
merchandise from their, own country,
have opened trade with Japanese busi
ness firms lm i Japan sd .aow lmeet
aU of then are eelUag Japanese made
goods. 'if v..
drugs were booth t by the 'Jananeae
tnerehants ia the outh Bees some
time ago. '
Thie caused the British' government
to make a-protect tw the Japanese cov-
ernment, Saying that the Japanese mer
chants in China may violate Interna
tional law in exporting goods Which are
contraband to China. .
- , - -
(Spaclal Oablsgram to STIpes J1J1.)
TOKIO, July 18. Japan is threaten
ed with possible disclosure of a part
Of its most important naval secrets
following the reported theft of docu
ments from the naval arsenal at the
Basebo navy yards. ' The stolen papers
contain, the reports say, secrets of ths
manufacture M the -Japanese torpedo.
. Sear Admiral O. BatO is making rigid
Investigation into the circumstances
surrounding the mysterious disappear
ance of the documents. It is believed
by the naval authorities at Sasebo that
the secrets were stolen to sell to some
foreign government.
- . .
AMERICAN 'JACKIES' BEAT
FOREIGN NAVY SHOOTING
(AaseetaUd Frees hy Tseeral Wireless.)
WASHINGTON. Jul v 18. Ad mi:
Henry T. Mayo, commander-in-chief of
the Atlantio fleet, issued a formal sta
tement covering the results of the .re
sent target practise off he couth coast
or uuoa. , ia nis report Admiral Mayo
says, that the shooting done - by the
American fleet was better bv far than
any done . by the . fleets .of Great Bri
tain or Germany in .anv of the neat
sea battles of the European war.
i. . i , ; . 1 ' ' . '
ARMY OFFICERS FORBIDDEN
TO ASK FUNDS FOR MILITIA
(AsseoUtae Press sy reesra! Wireless.)
WASHINGTON, July 17,-Seeretary
of War Baker today issued an order
nrobibiting any army officer from tak
ing part in mevemeata for the solicita
tion Jt funds to augmsnt the govern
ment ration for the militia. "Such
movements are unnecessary and ill
timed' he commented. ,. . ,
FORMER CITY OFFICIAL
SLAIN IN SALOON RAID
(asaooUtec' rrass y Tssaral Wlrslsss.)'
SEATTLE, July 18. William Both-
well, former city comptroller, was kill.
ed, and two polieemea were wounded
la a raid on the bar of the Fergusoa
Hotel last night. According to the
story of the police, Bothwell waa in the
bar at the time of the raid and im
mediately drew a revolver and bene
shooting at the police, who returned
hisfirO killing the former comptroller
NAVAL SECRETS OF
JAPAN ARE STOLEN
REPORTS
Sari PedricV Striker Ebld Out
Shipping Trouble Ia Complex
(AsseeUUe rrw by r4ral Wlrslww.) ,
'BAN rBANCISCO, July 18. Al
thougn the local stevedores and ether
waterfroat worker have agreed to re
turn to work sad cad thsbig strike,
by a vote of more than two to oae,
strikers ia other titles of the Coast
have voted' against it.
- When ths question was preseated to
the unions at Baa Pedro yesterday a
stormy meet ins; was followed by an
i SUIENTREASURE
') t. U . oawaia-aBne. .
Man Who Raised F-4 Tackles
Much Bigger . Job On At-
''-'r- Xtantic Coast i
(AseeetssWI Tress by rederal WlrtUu.)
NEW YORK, July 17. George D.
Stillson, former chief gunner in the
United States Navy and ths man who
was ia charge of diving operations on
the sunken submarine F-4 off Hono
lulu harbor,' is commanding an expedi
tion in first .operations to salvsge . a
big Ward tiaer sunk In 1812 off Cape
Charlee i light. There la treasure
aboard i worth more than $1,000,000.
New Yorkers are finsseing the expedi
tion. 1 ;..
BIG INTERESTS BACK VENTURE
The Intereecaa- Submarine Engineer
ing Company is the name of the firm
with wkien'Mf. Stillson ia eoaaected.
Lit was' Incorporated at Albany, New
York, recently, with capital stock of
1S5,0O0. ilrStUboa is vice-presi
dent. - Rear-Admiral Colby X. Chee-
hW;-1.. S-N-"retlrd;-iis' presldflntj
Uimt: writ- rraakUn, rV Wyre,
tired, U vice-president, and among the
principal Backers are ueorge F, Baker,
chairman of the First National of New
York j Charlee Sabia, president mt the
Guaranty Trust, and Percy A. Bocke
teller. -
Mr.. Stillson has been known-to fa
vor beirinnlng work on a ward liner
eunk off Hatteras in 262 feet of water,
and it probably is this ship to Which
be will go. Former mail advices re
eeived Here said that this essel had
$200,000 ia silver and i500,0t0 la other
articles which would not be damaged
by salt-water. There had been no
suggestion that an attempt would be
made to salvage the vessel herself.
The company proposed to pay under
writers from eight to ten ner cent of
the recovered valuables, retaining the
remainder ror itseir, according to for
mer advices.
It was intended to work in depths of
300 feet' or less at first. The divers
of Stillson 'a party descended 800 feet
to theNF- here. Stillson 's Improved
apparatue made theae world-record
dives possible snd it was the success
of the work here thst demonnr.ra.teit
the practicability of salvage work
such as is being undertaken now. -
-.
REMARKABLE ESCAPE.
GREAT FLOODS
Number of Known Dead Around
Asheville Now Nine '
(Asaselated rrass by Federal Wireless.)
A8HEVILLE, North Carolina, July
17. A remarkable escape from death
in the floods from the French Broad
Biver wss chronicled here today when
Miss Nellie Lipe and Mrs. Leo 'liul
holland, a guest at the Lipe ' home
near Biltmore, were found alive, hay
ing taken refuge in a tree-top.
The total number of known dead ia
now nine, with fears that several more
fatalities will be recorded.
Asheville and the village and Van
derbilt estate at Biltmore are without
gas or electrioity, ,AU the factories
are idle.
Ths rivsr Is falling and the es
tent of the damage ie being ascertain
ed. Fifty-three houses at Marshall
were demolished.
GREAT BRITAIN SPENDING
THIRTY MILLIONS DAILY
(Anoclatea fries ey Federal Wireless.)
LONDON, July 17. Chancellor of
the Exchequer MeKenaa announced to
day that the daily expenditures of the
British for. war purposes have reached
six million pounds.
FOURTEEN PARALYSIS DEATHS
(Aaseclatee Fraas by Feesral Wlrslsss.)
NEW YORK, July UFourteen
more deaths and ninety-five' new ease
STILLSON SEEKING
FROM
TRELOINDOUS BRITISH GAIN IN FRANCE
I uostaimoue , veto, enlnst returainc to
work oader the eld conditions. -;
. This aadonbtedly will have Its effect
on the local situation, for while the
strikers voted to quit striking and go
back to work under ue old conditions,
thsy nave not. yet teamed their taaka,
but are watting for the actios of the
onions op and daw he-. Coast before
going to work agnirt.r -. . , ,,. s v,
The vote of the flan. FrnadeeQ onions
was 1184 to 6!e l favor of abandon
ing the fight and reeamlBg their jobs.
DEUTSK!
Big Teuton ; Submarine Painted
White arid, Cra To Trick
Watching Foes
- (Assecietee Frees by Feaessl Wlrcleae.)
WASHINGTON,-July 18. WHh her
cargo for Gemedy, stowed sway be
aesth her hatehea aid Ijer sides painted
ia alternate streaks of gray sad white 1
to deceive watchful eyes la the cruis
ers of her enemies, the Teutonic sub-
snarine : Deuteehland! isf, lying at her
dock la Baltimore, - ready or almost
ready for sea. , It ia believed she will
sail today. i'. ) ; '-;
While hot eonassaadef has beea pre
paring for his dash across the Atlantic
to. the Oenaaa portsf the. Deutschland
haa beea threateOeds with diplomatic
complications. Despatches from Lon
don yesterdsy told tOf it iemund upon
the English axiniater of war trade, em
Robert Cecil,, for all 4hs correspond
enee between Great -Britain aad the
United State regarding the Germaa
nnderweter craft.., , , I
s This deaosed was nst by John DSt
los,.' a nwearaer (f-'sheCottae pf eeejie
mens, sad is believed' to Indicate that
the British governnfent IS' preparing to
dispute the flndinjc'iof American . offl
eiaJs on the pacific eharaetet of the
submsriae.
'Beports from observers at Cape Hen
ry to the' navy - departmeat yesterday,
and from steamers arriving at Hamp
ton Boads indicated that there are no
allied cruisers petroling the Craters out
side the Virginia capes awaiting for
the departure of the Deutaohland.
IRISH BILL TO COME UP.
BEFORE FALL ADJOURNMENT
tAaaecUted Frees by Ftdarsl Wireless.)
LONDON. July 18. Premiss As
quith, ia a formal statement to the bouse
of commons yesterday, aanounsed that
the new Irish government bill. would
be presented to parliament at come
time prior to. the antumn adjourament.
He added -that following the war the
entire Irish question would bo submit
ted .to On imperial conference, and that
therefore the proposed measure is but
a temporary one- at best..
SUSPECT ARRESTED FOR : ,
MUROER OF MISSIONARIES
(pedal OabUsrasi to Blpya -.
TOKIO, July 18. The polifs of th,e
Nagano station have arrested a sus
pect for the murder of two Canadian
missionaries last Setnrdsy night at Ahe
summer resort of Karuixawa. ' The
misalonsries, Mr. and Mrs. ' Campbell,
were murdered la their roqea. at ths
resort and the . place looted . by the
alayer. (
r.
MILLION ACRES FLOODED:
MILLION DOLLARS DAMAGE
f Assedetea Frsss by Federal Wireless.)
KNOIVILLE, July 17-A ) aaillloa
acres of corn and peanut lands 4a the
Tennessee river valley, between Chat
tanooga and Paducah, Kcntaehy, are
flooded.. .The,, loss is estimated.. .at
l,000,o60nasrf( many people-prex loxae
A
ES
(ITALONE MILLiON
- The shnrsholdsrs of Oahu Sugar Com
pany at their meeting jyesterday ap
proved the recommoadatlona of their
directors snd increased the capitalisa
tion of the company from' $5,000,000 to
$4,000,000. v v
One million dollars wOl .: be dis
tributed among the shareholders as a
stock dividsad. j
Thsy also passed the required amend
ments to the by-laws to permit thie
stock being listed on the Sam Francisco
exchange.
,
John Silva, indicted for xaanslaugh
ter, waa given until Saturday to plead
to the eharge against 'him. -- He ap
peared before Judge A ah ford yea ter.
day and made request for this post-
DMAY
MAKE PASH TODAY
V ' ' . . i - .3 -
yillistaa Dodge
Cdrranza Force
In flight North
Mexican Generals Admit Bandits
Have Eluded Them and Are
.l . Moving Toward Border
ji ,' ' ' ' ' ' '
f ' - V ,
Frsss by Fsesfs! Wlrslsss.)
;CIT,Y, of .CHIHUAHUA, July 18
Geaeral ' Bsmos has reported to Gen
eral Trevino Commanding the de facto
troops, la Chihuahua, that scattered
bands of the Villa troops rwho wore
gathered. a( the headquarters .of their
chief la the lowlaada of the Bio Flori
da, 'hare succeeded is escaping the
eordoa pf fed'ersl troops throws around
them.v
They'separated into the smallest pos
sible . greupe and slipped through the
federal lines, only to reassemble at
Tlnajea Las Escobss.
. There General Villa is said to have
hssaaed eosxmaad of them and im
kediately started northward with the
t vowed intention of again raiding the
order; orVihe United Htatee. Carran
sista eommsadefs are authority for this
latt report. ..
In a. formal ststemest issued later
last night, General Trevlno explained
the failure of his me a to rn down the
bandits ander Villa, by saying that ths
advent i the rainy season in that sec
tion of the country ensbled the outlaws
to dodge the water holes and wells gusrd
ed by the Federal troops, and'to make
short seta hy routee which would bsve
beea ; impossible throe or even two
aeeka ago.. ' '
' ; i pi.
irtfti
IV II
I0UI
kii;gstreetcar
Mrs. Ili: W: rlowetl Seeks 'Death
Tew Months
i
Part-Hawaiiari Lad Tries To Kill
Himself With Rat Paste
t Mixture
Hsving failed in her attempts to illl
herself under a tree in Thomas Bquars
snd at her home ta Sohool street, Mrs.
M. W. Howell, wife of a petty officer
on the U. H. H. Alert, hunted death on
a King atreet ear last night, aad early
this .morning Dr.' B. G. Ayer, of the
emergency hospital . did not know
whether he wne going to be able to
save her life. '
li waa s busy evening for the staff of
the emergency hospital, for Mrs. How
ell waa the second of .two attempts at
self destruction between half-past ten
o 'clock snd midnight.
The first esme shortly after ten,
when an alarm aent the ambulance rac
ing down King street tp Doweaett lane,
where Kddie Miller, a part-Hawaiian
boy had drained a bottle of rat poison
mixture. i. .
The surgeon wss in time, however,
and ruahed him to the emergency hos
pital. There Miller was pumped out,
and after an hatrr'a strenuous work
wss declared to be on the road to re
covery, and was taken to. The Queen's
Hospital for further , treatment had
care.
On the way back to ths station the
ambulsnce psssed a car of the King
street line at Nuuanu and King
street. It wss stopped and a frantic
conductor hailed the driver of the am
bulance . as the machine passed the
trolley.
.-Mre. Howell was lifted out, uncon
scious, snd taken to the emergency
hospital, where Dr. Ayer and hie as
sistants worked over her.
The doctor believed that the woman
had taken a virulent poison.
PARKER MAY ACCEPT
PROHIBITION FAVOR
(AsaecUU4 rrsas by Fsaersl WlralaM.,
ST. PAUU Minneeota, July 18,
Johs M. I'srker, vice-presidential can
didate on the Progressive ticket, has
been suited to accept the nomination
of the Prohibition party for the same
office.
'
GERMAN STEAMER SUNK
OFF COAST OF RUSSIA
(AsaoeiaUa rress by rsdaral Wireless.)
LONDON, July 17. A Beuter's des
patch from Htockholm says that the
German steamer Hvris has been cub
marinod in the Baltic off the Bussiaa
coast, but without casualties.
LINCOLN CABIN ACCEPTED
(AssoolataS Frees sr Federsl Wlielsss.)
WASHINGTON, July IT. President
Wilaon todsy signed a bill aeeeptina
on ttehnlf of the government the cabin
wherein Abraham Lincoln was born.
He also sigped the rural credits kill
PKOIITAKEH
trousandsWgermans
and large quantities
OF MATEMELS CAPTURED
While Allies Drive Great Salient Ir
to Lines of Teutons In West, Rus
sians Are Sweeping von Linsengen
and.;; von Bothmer Further Back
FIERCE FIGHTOIG GENERAL
r. (Aesociated Prew By Federal Wirelesa)
LONDON, July. 18 British forces in France have won the great
est allied victory since the Battle of the Marne. Gen. Sir Doug
las Haig commander-in-chief of the British troops at the western
front reported list night that the Allies have gained both north and '
south of the Somme, have taken important German strategic" posi-1 ' ;
tions at Bantine, Lepetit Bois, Longueville, Ovilliers and La . -Boisselle.and
have captured in all 110779 German unwounded sol
diers,; 189 officers, seventeen of the great Teuton cannon, and 133 . v ; ,
field guns," besides destroying a great number. of other guns, and V ; ' .
taking an immense quantity of munitions, machine guns and rifles; !
Ftor'the "first time since the war began Itondon put off the cus-' ' '
tomary British calm and went wild with enthusiasm after the, news V y
was displayed on the bulletinboa-ds outside of the war offices, and
flashed tof provinces. The restaurants, filled with -women and '
khaki-clad me?n, were gay for the) first time in months. . Men and
women stopped each other on the streets to congratulate the na- . , V 1 .,;
tion upon the vVtory in France,; and the papers are filled whh the C . i
announcements1 Vomf the, official press bureau, deaHng-Svitir thV'V ,
fighting t the western fronts 1 ; ' ," ''':'' -l '
"ivs ruiJUt tJICKMAJMS TO FALL BACK.
mu juu uiuiucu vnuiuc icuiuns
the line of the lower Lipa, by the
ana tne volume ot me. lav, artillery fire. On top of this news came
word from Petrogtad of. the capture of more than'13,000' Germans
on the Lutsk-Kovel line, and the further announcement of the gigan
tic total of Teuton casualities since the opening of the Srav summer '
offensive. '."y.:; ... V
In all the Russians' have" killed or wounded id the German and
Austrian armies under Field Klarshal von Linsengen and GenerkI ;
Von Bothmer, 14,900 officers, including seventeen generals and twenty-nine
rcgimenurcommanders, and 248,000 men., These" figures .
are up to and including July 1 only, and no official, statement has i
been made of the number of Teutons lost since that date. ; . 'j
Unofficially it was announced yesterday that the Russian wjng
operating against von Linsengen in the Volhynia sector, had cap
tured, 13,000 additional prisoners in the fighting of the last tew days. :
But it is upon the western stage of the struggle that the greatest
amount of attention is being concentrated by Britain and France. -Paris,
according to despatches from that city last night, was as en
thusiastic over the new! from the fronts as London. ': - . .'
GREAT SALIENT DRIVEN INTO GERMAN LINE
Of the fighting on the Somme line there are comparatively few
details from official sources. The war office has contented itself with
brief communiques, dealing with the actual state of affairs, and all 1
Britain awaits the official reports from Sir Douglas HaigV telling of
the struggle from tthe beginning. , j
It is fairly certain, however, that the British commander-in-chief
has driven a great salient into the German line, So rapid has been
his advance of the last few days, that he reports that he has suc
ceeded i.i capturing official documents addressed to German head
quarters showing the frightful casualty lists of the Teutons opposing
the British and French on tthe Somme. ' ,V . , , ...
The German second line of trenches has now been, battereq in by
the cannonading of the British artillery, for a distance of J500 yards ,
to the northwest of Bazentine and Lepetit Bois. - East of Longu
ville, where the Germans have the advantage of a steep rise of.,'
ground, the British Territorials have driven the Germans out of a
position and made fresh gains in the direction of Guillcmont, which
is due east of the historic Trones wood. Here the struggle was
particularly desperate and the Germans counter-attacked repeatedly,
but vainly. . -WriHM,' ';;
FURIOUS INFANTRY CHARGES BREAK HOLD .
The remaining hold of the Germans upon the positions in the vicinity
of La Boisselle was broken by furious charges of the British: infantry,
supported by the artillery At Ovilliers and Pozieres also ihe British
attack was successful.
Late in the afternoon the fighting on the Somme line was forced to
stop by the weather. Heavy rains and dense mists obstructed the view
of the gunners and observers, and compelled them to Ceased firing and
await the return of better weather. . '
Despatches from Paris yesterday told of the landing at Brest of
another large contingent of Russian infantry for service at the western
front. They will be marched to join their comrades, now jo the tren
ches, as soon as they have rested from their journey and' received
their equipment. ' .. ' '
Another despatch from France hays that Kaiser Wilhelm has reached
the German positions in the Somme sectors, and is personally directing
the fighting of his men, in the hope of being able to stem' the allied
advance.
In the neighborhood of Nomeny in Lorraine, the Germans tried an
assault on the French line, but, according to the French reports, were
repulsed with heavy loss. West of Fleury, on the Verdun line the
nvc occn. lorcca DCk ptyotlq
overwhelming masses of Russians
oi inisoiue paralysis.
ponsment. ,
' 'V- - '
' V ''-'." '
today.
(Continued on Page 8)
.:'
