IJttblic
4. 4.4. 4.4.4. 4
f TBI LIMIBa It M mifT-
Mlf mAIm that brfufd re-
H. Oar rated are consist-
4- rat wit rlrrnlaUnn. Try as.
!
For KMtaekri Miowrr
Tk-eaalaT aa Wednesday.
MAYSVILLE, KENTUCKY, TUESDAY JULY 18 1916.
nritKt. r kkh-hi.tcait .11
tAILV FVItLtV LKKHK I
ONg COPY OltB VMtfT.
iii.ii,.;tiiA.
KENTUCKY MEN
To tin to Border Will Mot, Accord.
In to Latest Report Speculation
lllfc at ii stal Ncn Ne
Jlcctcd Third llattallon of
Second l-oses Forty
ler Cent of Hew.
bershlp.
Mil. PAY IH POtirR COI'RT
Fort Thomas, Ky., July 17 Conver
sation at Fort Thomas U honeycombed
with versions of official bellefa, hopes
and forecast. If a Kiiardsman wants
to go to the border he can find talk
enough here to convince him that he
will be aboard the rattler for Texas
within a week. If he wants to stay
In Kentucky he can talk confidentially
with some other authority and be as
sured that there will be no movement
of troops from Fort Thomas except to
their homes, if we are not sent home
we will be sent to the border. Guesses
are free and the hazarding of opinion
has been the favorite sport of officers,
men and newspaper correspondents.
Telegrams from the Department of the
Fast can be interpreted in almost any
manner one wishes, and as a result
conflicting rumors, under guise of au
thentic reports, are everywhere.
Today newspaper ocrrespondents
were authorized to announce that
there would a movement of Kentucky
troops; that they would be moved In
a brigade and not In units; that they
would probably be moved when fully
equipped, and that they would proba
bly fee a year of service on the border
after they did move. "Fully equrppea"
can mean any shade of preparation.
I Tomorrow may bring a different
story, but that is the news of July 17.
1916.
W. R. Bethel, of Jackson, Ky., for
mer mountaineer soldier of fortune
captain under the Mexican rebel ban
dit Villa, today called on Adjutant
General Tandy Ellis and asked for a
commission in the Kentucky guard to
fight against his former commanders.
FUNERAL THIS AFTERNOON
The funeral of Mrs. H. C. Sharp will
be held this afternoon in the Central
Presbyterian Church. Rev. H. Kerr
Taylor will preach the sermon.
In Police Court yesterday afternoon
eight drunka were up before Judge
Whltaker. They received their doses
as follows:
Roone Yatell, drunk and dlaorderly,
tc.fio.
I.ec Spencer, drunk, $6.50.
John Wright, drunk, 6.6Q.
John Harrington, drunk and disor
derly, $10.60.
Dan Coughlln, drunk, $6.50.
William Short, drunk, $6.60.
Rod Duley, drunk, $6.60.
The case of Dave Barnes charged
with being drunk was postponed un
til August 1 as he broke his arm dur
ing his celebration.
They say that Maysvllle Is a dry
town. It has been voted as such and
it is up to the police to see that no
whiskey Is sold here. Of course, some
of these men got their whlakey In Rip
ley but we would bet tbat several of
them have not seen Ripley for some
time. The police have caught several
of the worst bootleggers but there arc
quite a number remaining.
NEW SERIAL PLEASED
The new serial, "Gloria's Romance",
starring Billy Burke, drew a large
crowd to the Washington Opera House
last evening at both shows. This ser
ial la considered aa one of the best
ever produced and if the remainder of
the episodes come up to the first it
certainly will be a great one.
BRICK WILL ARRIVE THE LAST OF
THIS WEEK
Mr. Scboolfleld, the contractor for
the down town streets, was in the
city yesterday and stated to N10 Ledger
man that he expected to get the brick
for his contract the last part of this
week. Work will begin as soon as
possible.
FOREIGNERS HERE
A small party of foreigners arrived
here yesterday to go to work on the
Lock and Dam just above the city
This is one of the earliest bunches to
arrive In this city but during the re
mainder of the season, many more will
doubtless arrive, aa labor is at a pre
mium around Maysvllle.
Harbeson Garage
Will Put Your Car in
Good Order For
Spring:
Parts and Sup
plies Gars For Hire
Fortifi
FORTIFIED AGAINST
Rim-Cut. I tha No-Rlm-Cat feature.
ty the on- AiKZnre.
ads by many rubber rhratt.
r by 128 braided planokwlraa.
riaaaaa Dy tha aoubia-
thick AO-Weather tread.
STATE LEAGUE
Will Klnlah the Season Says President
Thorns M. Rnaoel of the Local
Teas Boosters' Day To Re
Held Hera on Fritey
Gaaaa Today
Vacation Time
Is Here!
Need a Nice Traveling Bag?
We have about twenty-five
splendid traveling bags that we
are going to close out, NOW, at
a big reduction.
They range in price from $1.75
to $22.00, and we are going to
SELL THEM.
Enough said; if you need a bag,
here's your chance.
MIKE BROWN
"The Square Deal Mast"
That the Ohio State League will fin
ish the season Is now almost an aa
sured fact. When Interviewed this
morning President Thomas M. Ruaaell
of the local team said that If no one
would take up the franchise of the
defunct Lexington team the League
would probably support a team on Its
own hook. If a good city can be se
cured it is thought that the team will
practically bo self supporting for the
rest of the season.
(ronton has been selected and Presi
dent Gableman Is In that city making
arrangements to place a team thero
Ironton is a good baaaball town under
proper management and if a team
could be located there the league
would undoubtedly finish the season
The team laid off yesterday as thev
were scheduled to play Lexington the
first four days of this week. The Lex
ington club had surrendered its fran
chise and the disposition of the play
ers had not been decided upon. The
local backers of the team got in com
munication with Manager Guyn and
the old Lexington Colts will be here
this afternoon to play a game. Play
will be called at 3:15.
Altho the future of the league is not
known, Boosters Day will be had Fri
day. The committee started on their
campaign yesterday morntng and had
not received a refusal up until the
time they had quit. This shows that
this city wants organized ball and tbey
are willing to pay for It. The attrac
tion for Friday will probably be Chllll
cothe, altho the schedule for the re
mainder of the season has not neen w
sued. Although the future of the league is
not positively known, Roosters' Day
will be held at League Park Friday af
ternoon. A local committee started on
a campaign Monday morning and had
cothe, although the schedule for the
remainder of the season has not yet
been completed.
The only thing to do now is to wait
and see It a team can be placed in
Ironton or some other Ohio city. Base
ball In Huntington Is dead as far as
the Ohio State League Is concerned
for the Huntington fana are quite in
censed over the treatment they re
ceived from Lexington.
Lexington played unfair when it
made such a desperate effort to get
baseball for the rest of the season
Huntington wanted a berth in the
league and would have obtained it had
it not been for the act ion, of Lcxing
ton in refusing to sell Its team to the
Boosters after the deal had practically
been completed.
The knockers are still with us how
ever. We have been told about 'teen
times that the park will not be opened
again for the league but thos people
had better adopt a policy of watchful
waiting.
TAG DAY PROCEEDS TO BE SPLIT
FOR LEXINGTON PLAYERS
DEATH OF MRS. J. W. Ill Ml ox.
Mrs. J. M. Humlong, aged 68 years,
passed away at her home in German
town yesterday afternoon, ber death
being the result of injuries sustained
several weeks ago when she fell after
her son, R. O. Humlong backed his
automobile Into her unknowingly,
knocking her crutch from under her
arm.. The accident was a partlcularyl
sad one to the family and her death
even is more so, being Indirectly
caused as above atated.
She is survived by two sons, Messrs.
It O. and W N. Humlong. both of Oer
mantown. The funeral will be held this after
noon at .1 o'clock from her late home
with services by Rev. Ecklar. Inter
ment In the Maysvllle cemetery.
AGED LADY DIES
WORK PROGRESSING NICELY
Mrs. C Bell Meyers died at her
home in Augusta Saturday after being
confined to her bed for some time.
Several weeks ago she hroke her hip
and never fully recovered from the
fall. She was 86 years of age. Mr.
lames Key, the Circuit Clerk, and Miss
Isabelle Key attended the funeral
which was held yesterday afternoon.
Mr. Key was her nephew.
The work on the new streets is now
progressing nicely and the contrac
tors expect to do a great deal within
the next few days.
In the Fifth Ward the contractors
are making good time on concreting
the car tracks and will probably finish
nil of the track that Is excavated this
week. The delay In the work has
been mostly in the excavating. After
the car track is concreted the work
will be delayed several days on ac
count of the fact the little work la be
ing done with the excavating.
In the Sixth Ward the work Is con
fined to laying the curb and to exca
vating. The excavating is being car
ried on at a rapid rate but Is causing
some Inconvenience on account of In
terfering with the gas lines. The man
main has been uncovered and several
of the branch lines have been torn up
by the digger.
INCORPORATED
Sun Hurt Your Eyes?
See our line of SUM SHADE GLASSES. All kinds, sizes eotora
and prices.
The Movie Picture Glass relieves the eyes. Sec them
Also latest style Auto Goggles.
M. F. WILLIAMS DRUG COMPANY
THIRD AND MARKET STREETS
R 8. We have the beat $1.00 Fitted Eye Glasses In the olty.
EXPECT BIG RIVER
The I ' ni ted States Worker Bureau
has issued a warning to the contrac
tors at the Lock and Dam No. :!3 Just
above the city that they may expect a
big river within the next few days, the
river going (o a twenty foot stage or
more. A great amount of rain has1
fallen in the upper part of the river
and tills will bring the high water
The Romer-Redden Produce Co., of
Klchmond was incorporated at Frank
fort Saturduy with a capital stock of
$5,000. The Incorporators were Amelia
Homer. Ixuls Romer, R. Fulton Red
den and I,aura Taylor. This company
was a branch of the K. L Manchester
Produce Co. of this city.
ALUMINUM WARE
On account of the very high price at present, we Lave limited the
premiums to the various pieces we have in stock.
We are receiving the very nicest strawherrios coining to town.
0EI8EL & CONRAD PHONE 43.
A DOOR OF DIGNITY
and beauty gives an individuality to a
dwelling. You can obtain one here In
a choice of designs and with a wood
finish to harmonize with tke color
scheme of the building. It will fit ac
curately according to the measure
ments given and being thoroughly sea
soned, once iintm It will neither sag
or shrink. We shall be glad to have
you call.
The Mason Lumber Company
Corner Limestone and Second Streets.
Phone all.
A. A. MeLaagaJIa. L. H. Bekan.
CLASS MEETING
Lexington, Ky., July 18 The pro
ceeds of tag days sales, made a week
ago in an effort to finance the Lexing
tou baseball club for the remainder of
the season, will be split up among the
players who are now stranded In this
city without the finances to get them
home. This action was decided on at
a meeting held yesterday afternoon,
at which the sum of $40 was raised to
go toward the same cause.
It is thought that the silver bat
and ball, offered by Victor Bogaret,
for the most useful player on the Lex
ington team will be given to Biddy
Beers, who was leading by a big mar
gin when the votea were last totaled.
Biddy left yesterday to report to Man
ager Clerk, of the Milwaukee Ameri
can Association team. He Is a wise
and useful catcher and will make Uie
Brewers a good man.
The floods in the Southeast have
made it impossible for McClellan to
get to Ashevllle, N. C. In fact the
ball ground in that town la aaid to
be under three feet of water ,and the
former Colt shortstop has received a
message telling him to stay In Lex
ington until further notice. Shafer
will report to the Terre Haute Club
today and Korer may possibly be sold
to the l.oulBvllle Colonels before
night.
As for the balance of the bunch, no
word has yet been received from
President Joe fun as to what tbey
must do.
MAYSVILLE' NEW DIRECTORY
The new directory for the City of
Maysvllle and adjoining towns which
Is publ tailed by the fa run Director!-
Company of Loulaville is now being
delivered to the subscribers. The new
book la a splendid piece of work and
Is complete la every detail. Accord
ing to the nurm In the directory
afayavilla now aaa a population of I,
7M, waiok shows that the oid tovaj
Is really on the boom.
There will be an Important meet
ing of the Kpworth Adult Bible class
of the Third Street H E. Church
Sundny School tonight at the church
It Is very Important that every mem
ber ha present Other Indies of thr
church invited.
J. H. RICHARDSON, Teacher
POLICEMAN ON VACATION
Officer Dudley Bloomhuff of the local
police force left yesterday on a two
days' vacation with relatives in Brown
county, Ohio.
In Squire Fred W. Bauer's Court
yesterday afternoon Delia Jackson
was fined $0.15 for traspassing.
"The Home of QUALITY Clothes"
OUR MINDS ARE INFLUENCED TO AN APPRECIABLE DEGREE BY THE APPEAR
ANCE WE PRESENT TO OTHERS.
HECHINGER CLOTHES
I inspire their wearers with the consciousness of being well drfsOed and puts their minds at
ease in that, respect.
"HECHINGER" WEARERS NEVER FEAR CLOTHES COMPARISON
If you really want good clothes without paying too much for them, see ours by all means.
We have everything in the way of furnishings that you may require and would like to
have you see our line (which is not confined to a single man's ideas.
This is a store that has a nice assortment of good merchandise, and is anxious to serve
and please vou.
D. HECHINGER & CO.
fW S i tJf . 1f ,ft . aSa lf aftajeat i aftaiSl mfftH MafjfeJsM aatfJkjM mfftt nrfMWftaa awft t i.aH sfAnJB
The Heat Stays Out
The Breeze Comes In
At a few dollars' cost and in a few minutes' time you can convert your porch into a cool, secluded living and sleepiag
room with
Vudor Re-enforced Porch Shades
1016 MODELS
Kach equipped with VUDOR Safety Wind Device that holds the shade in position in the face of strong winds.
VUDOR Cord Slides double life of roll-up eord by doing away with heavy friction on galvanized and iron pulleys.
VUDOR Shades are made of flat strips of kiln dried, perfect basswood, woven together with large non-rotting seine
twine with two double chains of re-enforced warps near each edge.
VUDOR Shades, after many years, will be as effective as when new.
!p:j.2r to $10.00 will equip the average porch.
ieie
iaVt"J V ISW" t" M'.'
TRAIN DELAYED II K It t
No. 6, the faat New York "Special'
on the 0. & O. due here at 9:55 a. m
was delayed in the local depot about truck of one of the coaches. The bar
fifteen minutes yesterday morning on was not badly bent, but the trainmen
account of a bent bar in the front feared it would strike a crossing
buard and probably derail the train.
The local workmen stralahteued the
bar.
S THERE ARE NO SHARKS HERE AND THE WATER IS JUST RIGHT
IFOR BATHERS
i
We have only a limited number of BATHINO SUITS so come early ami get your pick.
'Hie price for ladies' suits range from $1.50 to $3.60, while LovVaud men's suits can be obtained for 20c and 50c.
Have you seen the tine assortment of CONQOLEUM RUQ87 They are 9x12 and only $7.95.
The town is on the boom If vou do not believe it come down here and we will show you sonic MA YSVILLK MADK SKIRTS. J
They are in plain colore and striped, but of style, and only $1.00. 1
Take a fan home with you. We have large assortment of the COOLEST FANS on the market today.
icetr?i
