HARRISBURG iSslili TELEGRAPH
LXXXV— No. 165
TROLLEY SERVICE
IS SUSPENDED
ALL LINES TODAY
Company Sends Oat 20 Cars at 7.30 O'clock; Threaten
ing Demonstrations by Strike Sympathizers Force All
Back to Barn Before Noon; Officials Will Not Say
When Attempt to Resame Service Will Be Made;
Many Stones Thrown by Boys Daring Morning
LEADERS OF STRIKING CARMEN URGE
MEN TO PRESERVE ORDER; ALL OBEY
None of Strikers Participate in Disorders; Officials of Rail
ways Company, Union, City and County Confer With
Captain Lamb of State Police; Company Wants Better
Protection; Could Employ Own Officers
All street car service has been abandoned by the Harrisburg
Railways Company. This action was taken at 11 o'clock to-day when)
twenty cars which had been started out on the city lines early in;
the day were withdrawn. Stoning of cars in various districts by |
boys and strike sympathizers was responsible for this action. The
strikers themselves have been quiet and have not been involved in
the disorders.
At tha company's offices, following the withdrawal of the cars
to-day, it was said that the company is unable to say when it will
attempt to resume operations.
This is the first time since the beginning of the strike on Sun
day morning, that the city has been entirely without trolley service j
at midday.
The strikers said little concerning the withdrawal of the cars
from the lines. They declare they are still determined in their fight
for arbitration of the points which they demand.
No serious troubled occurred in any part of the city to-day with
the exception of hurling stones through some of the car windows.
Railways officials stated that until adequate police protection was j
furnished, no cars will be operated, although the men are being
held for service, and that they are the employes who have not joined
the union.
Twenty cars were sent from the barns at 7 o'clock this morn
ing, manned by the same tjrews as yesterday. All of the men, ac
cording to Felix M. Davis, superintendent of transportation of the!
company were old employes who had remained loyal.
The cars were kept on the city lines, however, and no surburban
service, except to Pine street, Steelton, was maintained. At 10.30:
the first of the cars was sent to the barn because of trouble along
the line caused by strike sympathizers, and the other cars according)
to officials, were sent in upon the completion of their trips.
When one of the cars arrived at the Xorth Cameron street barns, 1
a crowd of strike sympathizers gathered and made an attempt, ac
cording to city police, to stop the crew. Special guards at the barn,
the police claim rushed out and drove the crowd back. Xo violence
was reported.
Late this afternoon Superintendent Davis, of the Traction
Company, confirmed a rumor that the company had declined to arbi
trate. "There is nothing to arbitrate," he said. "It is a fight to a!
finish."
:
Police Authorities Confer
During the morning a conference!
THE WEATHER-
For Harrisburg and vicinity: Part
ly cloudy to-uiKllt and Wednea
days not much change in tem
perature.
For Eastern Pennsylvania: Partly
cloudy to-night and Wednesdayi
gentle to moderate southeast to
south winds.
River
The Susquehanna river and all Its
branches will probably fall slow
ly. A stage of about 4.0 feet In
Indicated for Harrisburg Wed
nesday morning.
General Conditions
.oca I showers have fallen in »w
England the Middle Atlantic
States, the Ohio Valley and East
Tennessee, In the Northwestern
States and Western Canadian
provlncea and In Missouri, lowa
and Minnesota.
There ban been a drop of 2 to 14
degrees In the temperature over
the grenter part of the territory
west of the Rocky Mountains
under the Influence of an area of
high pressure that is movlnic in
land from the North Pacific ocean.
It Is 2 to S degree* cooler In New
England and in the Lower Ohio
and Middle Mississippi valleys;
elsewhere In the United States
there has been a general rise of
2 to S degrees In temperature,
except at a few widely separated
States, where slight falls occur
red.
Temperature: R a. m., 74.
Sun: Rises, 4:51 a. M.i sets, 7:31
p. m.
Moon 1 Rises, ft:3l p. m.
River Stage: 4.1 feet above low
water mark.
Yesterday's Weather
Highest temperature, 70.
I.oweat temperature. Of).
Mean temperature, 74.
Normal temperature, 75.
Getting used to strange
tewspapcrs is like breaking In
a pair or new shoes—mighty
uncomfortable. Order the
Harrisburg Telegraph mailed
to your vacation address If
you would enjoy real comfort.
Six cents a week will bring
the Telegraph to you no mat
ter where you are.
Harrisbttrg Railways Company Suspends Entire Service This Morning
BY CARRIERS 6 CENTS A WEEK.
SINGI.E COPIES 2 CEN'TS.
I was held with Captain George F.
SujpjßSaj 'aofiod jo 'quinq
I the preservation of order during the
I strike. Those who attended the con
-1 ference were Hugh L. McLaughlin,
representing the strikers, Sheriff W.
W. Caldwell, Chief of Police Thomas
Zeil. Prank B. Musser, president of the
Harrisburg Railways Company, and
Arthur H. Hull, attorney for the sher
iff.
Nothing definite was done, but it
was brought out that the traction
| company, under State law, may hire
officers to protect its own property and
that State Police may not be called un
til the sheriff decides that he cannot
maintain order without them.
| On the part of all those who par
ticipated, there was an evident desire
to do everything that would insure
public safety and provide for the pro
tection of property. McLaughlin said
that the strikers would not tolerate
disorder in their ranks and frowned
upon anything that had the appear
ance of law-breaking.
Strikers Preserve Order
Many citizens who have no interest
whatever in the dispute save as it
affects their convenience were mani
festly pleased to-day with the appar
ent desire of most of the trolleymen
to avoid disorder and destruction of
property. This feeling is quite wide
spread, and so long as the men main
tain this attitude it is believed they
will have the increasing sympathy of
the public, which Is demanding a set
tlement through arbitration or other
wise.
l"nion Gains Members
To-day, according to union leaders,
the strike sl»uation remains un
changed. The men are sure of win
ning, they say, and claim that not one
man who has joined the union will
leave. Yesterday, according to revised
figures issued by John J. Thorpe, vice
president of the Amalgamated Asso
ciation of Street and Electric Railways
Employes, fourteen new members were
received, and three who had left the
union returned, he declared.
More applications have been re
ceived. he said, and at the mass meet
ing this afternoon at 2 o'clock the sit
uation was again discussed at length.
Extra Men Ride Cars
On a number of the cars this morn
ing at least two men were riding, and
reports instantly spread in the down
town section that they were special
officers. Mr. Davis said, however, that
only passengers had ridden on the
cars.
The strikers this morning were quiet
and gathered in little groups In the
streets of the business sectton, discuss
ing the events of the night and the
big parade, which, they claim, was the
largest union demonstration ever held
In the city In recent years.
Strikers Oppose Violence
Sympathizers on all sides mingled
on Pace 10]
HARRISBURG, PA., TUESDAY EVENING, JULY 18, 1916.
V. S. COLLIER WITH HARRISBURG MAN ABOARD BREAKS IN TWO '
I .
Qj&rt-^nirrLxMc*:*
} s a P^ c s ur ® *l*® Collier Hector. Captain Robert E. Adams, of the United States Marine Corps, a resident of thli cltv was on the
ship. Hector went aground and broke In seven miles northeast of the Cape Romalne gas buoy. Although all were reported lost with the vessel the
of "the crew "w er« "inj u red lighthouse tender Cypress and the tug Wilmington brought the crew from the Hector to the port of Charleston, S. C. Three
APPROVE PLAN
FOR SETTLEMENT
BY COMMISSION
Mexico Favors Joint Interna
tional Body; Fletcher
May Be Head
By Associated Press
Washington. July 18. Eliseo
Arredondo, Mexican Ambassador
Designate, called on Acting Secretary
Polk at the State Department to-day
just before the latter went to the
White House for the cabinet meeting.
It was understood Mr. Arredondo had
received instructions rrom his govern
ment approving a tentative plan for
the settlement of differences with the
United States by means of a joint
international commission.
There are indications that Henry
P. Fletcher, Ambassador Designate to
Mexico, will head the three American
Commissioners if the plan is adopted.
Mr. Fletcher is said to prefer New
York City as a place of meeting while
the Mexican embassy favors Washing
ton. Mr. Fletcher was present at
to-day's conference.
The commission plan was developed
during preliminary conversations be
tween Mr. Polk and Mr. Arredondo.
It is expected that further informal
conferences will be held to define the
scope of the proposed commission's
authority. Whether the commission
will be authorized to discuss in ad
dition to the border situation, econ
[Contlnucd on Pajfe 10]
ACTIVE CAMPAIGN
FOR U-BOAT WAR
All Signs in Germany Indicate
New Decision on Sub
marine Question
By Associated Press
1 Berlin. July 17, via London, July 18.
—The active campaign for resumption
■of submarine warfare in its previous
[form has assumed new importance
from an article to-day by Eugene Zim
merman, general director of the Lokal
Anzeiger whose views, as past events
have shown, usually reflect the opin
ions held in governmental circles. He
cites in heavy type his own comment
on Germany's acecptance of the Amer
ican demands in regard to submarine
[.Continued on Page 10]
Powerful Anti-Aircraft
Guns For All U. S. Ships
Special to the Telegraph
Washington, July 18. Forty of
the new anti-aircraft guns for naval
use have been completed and will be
RHiunted on 20 battleships of the At
lantic fleet as rapidly as possible. The
Pennsylvania and the Nevada have
already been equipped with their anti
aircraft guns. As soon as other guns
ar» completed they will be placed on
the armored cruisers, cruisers and
destroyers.
Secretary Daniels said to-day:
"Several of the newest dreadnaughts
of the Atlantic fleet are now equipped
wth the most effective anti-aircraft
guns in the world. The Bureau of
Ordnance is to be congratulated upon
the results achieved. This new gun
has been designed, manufactured,
tested and mounted within the last
three years. It is very powerful and
will shoot straight up in the air at
an angle of 90 degrees to a height of
27,000 feet, having range sufficient to
reach aircraft at any altitude at
which they can operate effectively."
The gun is of three-inch bore and
wa: designed under the direction of
Rear Admiral Joseph Strauss, chief of
the Bureau-of Ordnance.
FAVORABLY REPORT SHIP BILL
By Associated Press
Washington. July 18. With a dis
senting Democratic vote the Senate
Commerce committee to-day ordered
a favorable report on the shipping bill
as revised by direction of the party
caucus. Republican senators voted
against It. I
FIRST GAME
123456789 SHE
Elmira EIEESOEIIEEO EHH
Harrisburg EEJEJEEHEIEEI BHI
Catteries; Elmira, Creager Fisher; Harrisburg. Huenke, Wheat.
FIVE ARE KITLFD
BY FANATIC WHO
BARRICADES HOME
Three Others Wounded; Stands
Off Police Until Dynamite
Blows House Down
By Associated Press
Chicago, July 18.—A negro religious
fanatic, becoming violently insane to
/day shot four persons to death, wound
ed three and was himself killed with
his wife after 150 police had dyna
mited the house in which he was
barricaded.
Hundreds of shots were exchanged
between the crazed slayer, H. J. Mc-
Intyre and the police who besieged
his flat in a two-story brick structure
at 320 North Irving avenue. After
three charges of dynamite had been
exploded and an attempt made to fire
the building with gasoline, Mclntyre
and his wife who were armed with
powerful rifles were shot to death.
The police were held at bay for more
than an hour.
• Mclntyre's wife is supposed to have
assisted him at least to the extent or
reloading his weapons, as a cartridge
belt was found around her waist simi
lar to the one worn by her husband.
Her head was blown off by the ex
plosion of dynamite.
Saviour of All Africans
The explosions blew the rear porch
and part of the kitchen into the alley,
[Continued on Page 10]
SURFACE MAY GO,
| THEN HE'LL TALK
State Zoologist Gets Request
For Resignation; Wants to
Know the Reasons
The request of the State Commission
of Agriculture for the resignation of
! Dr. H. A SurTace. State Zoologist for
' the last dozen or more years, was pre
sented to the scientist to-day by Sec
retary of Agriculture Charles E. Pat
ton, executive officer of the board, who
was instructed to do so. Dr. Surface
says he will not resign unless given
due and sufficient reasons for such
action. Secretary Patton has declined
to make any statement.
For months it has been rumored
' about the Capitol that Dr. Surface,
whose name is a household word
1 throughout Pennsylvania, especially
because of his attention to orchard
[Continued oil Page 10]
Heavy Damage Caused
by Earthquake in Austria;
Populace in Panic
By Associated Press
Ix>ndon, July 18. A Central
dispatch from Amsterdam says
great damage has been caused by
I an earthquake In the region of
Flume, Austria. In the city of
Fiume, the dispatch says, a ter
rible panic was caused by the
earthquake.
j Fiume is~a city of about 40,000 at
the northeastern extremity of the
1 Adriatic sea. It is an important sea
port. There have been several earth
disturbances recently in the region of
' the Adriatic, principally in lower Italy
j and Sicily.
TO INSVHK EMPLOYES
The largest single amount of life in
' surance ever covered by anv company
f In the world was announced" to-day by
; The Prudential Insurance Company of
America. The Insurance will total over
$16,000,000 and covers the lives of The
, Prudential's more than 16.000 employes
both those at work In the Held, and
those working at the home office of the
company in Newark. N. J.
WII/L APPROVE SIXTEEN SHIPS
Washington, D. C„ July 18.—The
Senate renewed debate on the naval
bill to-day with the hope that it might
be completed late in the afternoon.
Discussion of the building program
providing for sixteen capital warships
within three years, eight of them next
year, developed Indications that It
would be approved without radical
change.
SHERIFF SWEARS
IN DEPUTIES TO
STOP DISORDERS
Caldwell After Conference
Says He Can Handle Situa
tion; No Outside Aid
Following a conference with repre
sentatives of the Police Department,
the railways company and the striking
employes. Sheriff W. W. Cadlwell this
afternoon issued a statement in which
he announced his intention of swear
ing in- such deputies as mav be neces
sary to prevent the street incidents of
| last night.
Just how rnun.v deputies he will re
quire will be f,o\ erned entirely by cir
cumstances, the sheriff said.
Up until 3.50 o'clock this afternoon
County Detective James T. Walters,
[Continued on Page 4]
POSTMASTERS' MEETING
By Associated Press
Washington, July 18. The Na
tional Association of Postmasters of
the United States opened a four-days'
meeting here to-day to discuss means
ot improving the postal system. Sub
jects before the convention include
betterment of the railway mail service
|to Insure prompter rural deliveries,
benefits of government ownership of
auto equipment and installation of a
! more efficient newspaper carrying rail
iroad plan. Delegates number about
11,000. Addresses by President Wilson
j and Postmaster General Burleson will
be features OL the meeting.
DECLARE ACTIONS
WERE QUESTIONED
Gorgas and Gross Say They'll
Invoke Law if Necessary
to Stop It
| Both City Commissioners W. L. Gor
j gas and E. Z. Gross hinted broadly at
to-day's session of Council that their
motives relathe to certain legislation
: had been questioned by some citizens
J and they declared that they did not
; intend to submit to such treatment
even to the extent, if necessary, of in
voking the act of assembly governing
| such matters.
j Commissioner Gorgas opened the
: subject when the ordinance authorizing
the refunding to the Investors' Realty
[Company of $429.60 for overpaid pav
| ing assessment on Front street be-
I tween Maclay and Division streets,
was called up on second reading.
The sum represents the amount that
! had been paid by the company to
permit a clear title prior to the deci
j sion by the Dauphin courts that the
| abutting properties in that section
[Continued oil Page 10]
Fast train Kills Four
Trackmen, Injures Another
Special to the Telegraph
Coatesville, Pa., July 10. A west
bound passenger train plowed into a
gang of colored section hands at Whit
ford, on the Pennsylvania Railroad
yesterday, killing four and injuring
six. The bodies were mangled and
beyond recognition.
| Primrose Notall, one of the Injured
Is in the Coatesville Hospital suffering
[ from contusions of the head and a
i fractured arm. The men were work
i ing on one track, and when they re-
I ceived a signal to get oft, because of
an approaching freight train, they
stepped directly In the path of the
passenger train, which was approach
jing on an adjoining track.
; GENERAL ROTARY DISCUSSION-
S' Associated Press
! Cincinnati, 0., July 18. After a
I short business session to-day in which
the report of the committee on con
stitution was received the convention
of International Rotary Clubs, In ses
sion here, entered into a general dis
cussion on "Honorary Members in
Rotary," and "Rotary in the Smaller
Cities." The fight for the next, con
vention has grown lively between
Kansas City and Atlanta and Salt I
I>ak« City, while Chattanooga is ask
ing for the 1918 meeting. The selection i
of the next convention city will be'
made Friday.
CAUGHT IX WHIRLING SHAFT
Caught in a whirling shaft wheel at
I the Pennsylvania Railroad roundhouse !
Harold St. Peter, aged 21. 1531 Walnut I
street, an apprentice boy In the machine 1
shop, received internal Injuries from
[ which he may die. He was taken to
the Harrlsburp Hospital and is in >|
'critical condition. a %
RIVER NAVY ASKS
COUNCIL SUPPORT
OF "BASIN" PLAN
Refer Resolution of Permanent
River Enthusiasts' Organi
zation to Solicitor
For the first time in the history of
the municipality City Council to-day
officially recognized the united senti
ment Of hundreds of Harrisburg's river
enthusiasts for permanent improve
ment of the Susquehanna "basin" by
asking: City Solicitor D. S. Seitz for a
legal opinion as to what the city may
do for the project in a financial way.
Reference of the matter to the City
Solicitor followed the reading of the
resolution asking for recognition which
had been adopted last evening at the
initial gathering of river sportsmen to
effect a permanent organization.
The resolution calls attention to the
wonderful possibilities of the "basin's"
development, of the need for boat
house and bathing beach facilities
under municipal supervision, of the
[Continued on Pace 3]
L PRESIDENT VISITS CAPITOL '
!l> Washington, July 18. —Shortly after noon to-day Presi- j
dent Wilson went to the Capitol, his first visit in months. 1
He conferred with Senator Kern on speeding up the work- 1
men's compensation and child labor bills, which were side- fl
tracked by the caucus. j
ELKUS TO SUCCEED MORGENTHAU i
Washington, July 18. Abram Elkus, of New York,
was nominated by the President to-day as ambassador to I
Turkey to succeed Henry Morgenthau who retired to be- '
come chairman of the Finance Committee of the Democratic *
I National Committee. Mr. Elkus is a lawyer and was recom
mended by Mr. Morgenthau. j
[ENLARGED NAVAL PROGRAM PASSED 1
Washington, Juiy 18. The Senate to-day adopted the <
enlari.ee. bt '.lr program of the naval bill by a yiva voce 1
vote. It provides for the construction within three years of. I
1-57 war vessels of all classes and for four and 1
_ four battle ciuisers to be built next year. j
£ SHERIFF WILL NAME DEPUTIES I
\ Harrisburg. Sheriff W. W. Caldwell announced this
t afternoon that he will begin to deputize men late to-day to l
be used to prevent a repetition of the disorder of last night. 1
, John J. Thorpe, of the Amalgamated Association announc- j
i 3
r ed this afternoon that he did not think the company did the 1
F right thing in removing the cars as no harm had been done
I any of the passengers. He also said that no offer of arbi
tration had been received. Thorpe said one of the alleged'
| "strike-breakers" exhibited a 20-dollar gold piece which he
L declared had been paid him to work yesterday. *
A TER WILLIAMSPORT MAYOR
[ Application was filed at the Attorney General's De-j
partmcnt to-day by counsel on behalf of eight citizens of
Williamsport for a writ of quo warranto against Mayor
F Jonas chcr, c. r that city, requiring him to show cause '
| why he should not vacate the office. It is contended that
fa Fischer is not of the United States, having beett*
I born abroad and never having been naturalized.
L
j -■■" V;
MARRIAGE LICENSES ,
■
fienrjte Raymond Fluke and Urace Viola Rltckcy, city.
» J
12 PAGES CITY EDITION
BRITISH MAKE
NEW THRUST IN
SOMME ADVANCE
Report Substantial Progress on
Front of Half Mile North
of Ovillers
GERMANS MAKE ATTACKS
Secure Small Amount of
Ground at High Cost; Belgians
Win African Battle
Following up their successes near
Bazentln-le-Petit and Longueval
where they have have driven close to
third line of German defense on the
Albert Plateau the British now have
carried out a new thrust forward north
of Ovillers, making substantial prog
ress along a front of more than a half
mile.
The British drive was launched near
the left flank of the line active in the
present offensive, southeast of Thtep
val, and if followed up seems likely to
threaten seriously the strongly held
German position at Pozieres to the
east.
Counter Attacks Partially Successful
The expected counter attacks of the
Germans in efforts to recapture ground
recently won by the allies in the
Somme offensive have materialized on
the front occupied by the French
south of the Sommc.
In an attack '.ast night on the
French lines between La Maisonette
and Diaches the Germans succeed? I
in regaining territory along tho can. 1
east of Biaches, says their afternoon's
Paris bulletin.
Belgians Win in Africa
In the Verdun region there has been
further activity. The French firo
broke up a German raid on hill 31)4
west of the Meuse, while grenade fight
ing on the eastern bank of the river
resulted in advantage to the French
according to the Paris report.
Belgian troops have won an impor
tant success in German East Africa,
dispersing a German force near Lakrs
Victoria and reaching at two point*
[Continued on Page 10]
SHERIFF KILLED BY FUGITIVE
Opelousas, La., July 18. Marion
1.. Swords, sheriff of St. Landry Parish
for 16 years, was shot and killed and
two negroes, -assisting him, were
I seriously wounded yesterday in a
fight with Helaire Clarrlere, alleged
I fugitive from Justice. Clarriere es-
I caped.
