J
3
BARRE DAILY TO
VOL. XX NO. 105.
HAHHK, VERMONT, TUKSDAY. JULY 18. 1910.
PRICK, OXE CKXT.
rm
IES
SUBSTANTIAL
PROGRESS BY
THEBRITISH
Advance on Front a Thous
and Yards Long North
of Ovillers, War Office
Announces To-day
NOTIFICATION
IS POSTPONED
. GERMANS GAIN
SOUTH OF SOMME
Several Attempts to Take
La Maisonette Failed With
Ileavv Losses to Ger
mans
London, July 18. Substantial progress
on a front 1.000 yards lonir north of
Ovillers made, bv the British, was an
nounced by the war office to-day.
A thick mist and incessant rain is still
interfering with the Somm operations,
the statement My, but notwithstanding,
the enemv has leen driven out of several
ttrongly defended points.
GERMANS ATTACK
FRENCH SOUTH
OF SOMME
Gained Ground in the Vicinity of Biaches
Germans Lost Many of Their
Forces.
' Paris, July IS. The Germans made an
attack last night on the French line
south of the Sonime and gained ground
in the vicinity of Biaches, the war office
announced to-day. Several attempts to
take La Maisonette failed, with heavy
losses to the Germans, but groups of at
tacking forces are spread along the canal
on the east side oi Biaches, where the
fighting continues. A German raid on
hill No. 304 on the Verdun front west of
the Meuse was broken up by the French
infantry fire. East of the Meuse there
was fighting with grenades in which the
advantage rested with the French artil
lery that is active about La Laufee and
Chanois.
ITALIANS MAKE
. FURTHER ADVANCES
In Face of Vigorous Opposition They
Move Steadily Ahead Lively
Fighting Continues.
Rome, July 18. Jn tne. lace ot vigor
ous opposition the Italians have made
further advances, the war office an
nounced to-day. Lively fighting eontin
lies in Posinfc valley and the Arstico
area. Italian aeroplanes have dropped
bombs on. the railway station at Andrea,
south of Gorizia,
Decides to Await Adjournment of Con
gresa Before Tackling
Politics.
Washington. July 18. President Wil
on decided late yesterday to change tn
tentative plana lor holding the notiflci
tion cereiiioniea Aug. 5, because he d
sired to postpone them until after ad
journment of Congress. The decision wai
announced bv Vance McCormick, cliair
man of the Democratic national commit
tee, who issued this statement after
conference with the president:
"I found the president emlwrniesed by
the thought that he ought not to turn to
mlitic until the business of this run
gressional session was over. Of course
it is possible that the session may last
o lung as to make it impracticable to
wait until its close fur the notification
particularly as the president feels it to
be of the utmost importance that tne
child labor bill and the workmen com
pensation bill le passed at this session
but the president feels it to be his duty
to pontpone the notification ceremony if
possible until the adjournment of Con
gress,"
Mr. MoCormick also announced that
the notification would bo at Shadow
I-awn, the president's summer home in
New Jersey. He said Mr. Wilson wanted
to entirely dispose of the business before
Congress before throwing himself wholly
into the political situation.
CASEMENT'S APPEAL DISMISSED.
Sentence of Execution for Participation
in Dublin Revolt Stands.
London, July 18. The appeal of Sir
Koger Casement against the sentence of
execution for high treason for his activi
ties in the Dublin revolt were dismissed
to-day by the court of criminal appesls.
For a day and a half Alexander Sulli
van, Casements counsel, argued before
the court contending that treason de
pended upon whether the accused dwelt
inder a protecting king and that
the crime could not be committed' out
side of the realm. At his conclusion the
appeal was dismissed without hearing the
attorneys for the crown. A further ap
peal to the House of Lords is possible
only if the attorney -general gives a
certificate that the decision of the court,
of criminal appeals involves a point of
aw so exceptionally important that, it
is desirable in the public interest that
a still higher court should deal with it.
ELKUS GOES
. TO TURKEY
SHOT FOUR
TO. DEATH
26 DEATHS "
BY PARALYSIS
RELICS FROM VICKSBURG.
Named by President Wilson Negro Religious Fanatic Is After N Y. Health Officials
As Ambassador to Con- Taken Violently Insane, Believe Epidemic Under
Commits Crime
stantinople
Control
He SUCCEDS
M0RGENTHAU
HIMSELF AND WIFE
KILLED IN HOUSE
DEATHS
DOUBLE
IN ONE DAY
By Whom He Was Recom- Under Which Police Explod- One-Hundred and Twenty
mended Morcenthau ed Three Charges of . One Mew Cases Reported
in Campaign
Dynamite
Last 24 Hours
Washington, July 18. Abram Elkus, a Chicago,
New York lawyer, was to-day nominated fanatic, H.
tional committee,
by Morgenthau.
.Tntv 1RA norrn religious loric, July is. After the health
J. Melntyre, becoming vio- pmcuus believed the epidemic of inlan
bv President Wilson as ambassador to lentlv insane to-day. hot four persona 1118 Piiis under control tne disease
Turkey. He succeeds Henry Morgenthau, to death, wounded three and was himself ma(le pronounced advance to day. Imr
who retired to become chairman of the killed with his wife after 150 police had im? th ,Mt 24 hmr" the plague killed 2(1
finance committee of the Democratic na- dynamited the house in which he was ren ana in new cases were reported
He was recommended barricaded. Hundreds of shots were ex
changed between tht crazed man, his wife
and the police.
After three charges of dynamite had
hecn evnloded mu in attemnt. had been rsraitlcDoro, Ju
CALLS ON POLK -de to fire the structure with gasoline, 5? v ZZ ce
Melntyre and his wife, who were armed with the state board of health's order
with rifles, were ahot to death. The po- affecting all children coming into this
lice were held at bay more than an hour, state from that citv. They will be kept
.uciriijre icit u urcinrinir ne under Ouarantine unfi rianorr of ileve oi
a propnci. ana wie vior oi an Aincans. i lng infantile paralysis la over.
ARREDONDO
Yesterday's daily report showed but 14
deaths and 95 new cases.
Quarantine New Yotk Children.
Brattleboro. July 18. Dr. Henry Tuck-
Interesting Display of Articles Uncovered
in Setting Up a Monument,
Belie of the siege of icksburg, tin
covered bv Matt, Ha lev of ltarre while
excavating for the Michigan state sol
diers' monument on the historic outskirts
of the Mississippi city last spring are
exhibited ill the display window at the
.Moore & Owens torc. One of the exhibit
is formed by a display of unexphMei
shrapnel. Another shows the iron con
tents of a shrapnel shell that had Ixfll
exploded. A third i made up of leaden
bullets uncovered by heavy rains in the
vicinity of Vicksburg. Perhap the inont
interesting feature is a rusty Springfield
army ritle of the type used by Union
soldiers during the war between the
states, Mr. Haley uncovered the rifle
along with two bayonets between the
Confederate ami Union lines and close
students of the siege grounds have in
formed him that the gun must have been
lost by a northern soldier May 22. 18I3,
when one of the tierce northern assaults
was rcpuled by the Confederate. A
ramrod accompanies the weapon. Mr
Haley contemplates presenting the relics
to the Itorre Historical soceity to be ex
hihited in the historical room at city
hall.
AND STILL THEY DO IT.
On
Tentative Plan of Settlement of Differ
ences Between Mexico and
United States.
Washington, D. C, July IS. Elisco
Arredondo called on Acting Secretary
'oik at the state department to-day. It
understood that Arredondo received
nstructiona from his government ap
proving a tentative plan for a settle
merit of differences with the United
RUSSIAN TROOPS PUSH FORWARD,
Petrograd Reports Cavalry on Road to
Marmaros-Sziget.
Petrograd, via London, July 18. The
official communication issued from gen
eral headquarters yesterday reads:
"A Zeppelin appeared yesterday above
Riga and threw bombs on the lower part
of the town.
"In Yolhynia, in the region of the low
er Lipa, our troops continued to presu
the enemy. Prisoners are still coming in.
"Northwest of Kimpolung our cavalry
have advanced along the Kirlibaba-Mar-ruaros-Sziget
road.
"The emperor has sent the following
telegram to Grand Duke Michael at
Tiflis:
" 'With joy I learn that you have as
Mimed the offensive. Regarding the vic
tories gained by my Caucasian heroes,
give them my warm thanks and my con- i
ridence in their further determined devo
tion.' '
LITTLE CHILDREN
FATALLY BURNED
Pour Oil on Fire to Hasten Supper And
. Rush, Clothing Ablaze, Into
Father's Arms.
Adams, Mass., July 17. An explosion
f kerosene caused probably fatal burns
o two little gins last mgirt wnen u-
ear-old Yvonne Clairmont tried to hur
ry along supper by pouring oil on the
fire.
Yvonne and her 6-year-old sister, Ber
tha, were covered with the blazing oil
nd ran out of the house to their grand
mother's residence nearby.
Their father met them as he was com
ing home from work and without recog-
izing his daughters threw his coat
bout them and smothered the flames.
The children were so badly burned that
physicians said they could not Jive 24
hours.
U. S. FIRMS ON BLACKLIST.
Britain Forbids Trade By Her Own
People.
London, July 18. The British gov
ernment to-morrow will publish a list
of from 70 to 80 business firms and in
dividuals domiciled in the United
States with 'which "residents of the Unit
ed Kingdom "are "forbidden to trade.
This will be' the first time that any
American 'firms' have been placed on the
statutory 11st,' which is' better known as
the trading ' With the Enemy Act
blacklist. All other countries have
been represented on the list for some
time.
STATE GOLF TOURNAMENT.
Play on Rutland Country Club's Links,
Aug. 3, 4 and 5.
Rutland, July 18. The program has
been prepared bv James A. Merrill and
E. I Olney of this citv, president and
States by means of a joint international secretary, respectively, of the Vermont
. inra i.jnr naanpinr nn i if i net :it n nn.
iimiui itiui uniiM'ui, vincii win tie neiu uu
mea to make any announcement im- thft link of the EutUnd Countrv club on
ther than to say that the conferences Aug. 3, 4 and 5. Entries must be made
were progressing favorably.
WEIGH ACTS OF
PROF. APPELMANN
Committee, of Which Prof. Carroll W.
Doten of Tech is a Member,
Conducts Secret Investiga
tion of Alleged Dis
loyalty. Burlington, July 18. The investiga-
of the
READY TO MAKE DASH.
Deutschland Has Completed Loading at
Baltimore.
Baltimore, Md., duly 18. I here were
many indications to-day that the subma-
to Mr. Olney by the evening of Aug. 2.
TK annual TnAntinnr tf IKa a &am.ia linn i' .
, " lion oi a committee ot alumni
,u uuuuro "it ' l- :...;.. .1.. -1
at S n. m. The daily nlav will be as fol- J ' . ' c.mrc,
lows; of disloyalty made against Prof. An
Thursdar, S:30 a. m. Qualifying ton H. Appelmann, who occupies the
round, 18 holes, first 18 to qualify; 1:30 chair in German at the universitvfi. was
I'. III., Illffb riJUUU III lUAlll Ilia. i5 JlvllvB, f . , , .
three IRs begun yesterday and after sessions last
Friday, 8:30 a. m. Second round of inS tnrougtiout tlie entire day, was cou
rini merchant man Flout hcMa nri vu rnxAv match nlav. IS holes, losincr rifrhts of tinned until to-day
l.. -! ' . ' . -P I TV, V .. i.-i.rj -i i
three lfis continue to rav: 2:30 d. m.. "-""K " "eiu wninu cioseu
semi final round, match nlav. 18 holes. doors and no statement was obtainable.
Satnrdav. R:3(l a. m Finals. mat-h miwne cuucerneu
play. 36 holes for championship, handi- ine nring grows out of the charges
cap IS holes, medal ry. Prizes for best Diada m the Outlook magazine and other
grow and best net scores not to go to publications, accusing Prof. Appelmann
same playeT. ' f disloyal acts and statements.
The Oovernor McX'uIIough cup present- ppBiraann is an exenange proiessor
ed by the Mount Anthony club of Ben- n(l German subject. The prosecution
nington for annual competition will be nd much documentary evidence and, it
coinneted for on Auir. 4 bv four desiimat- 8 understood, produced w itnesses who
ed members from eac.n club m the tourna
ment. W. A. Barber, jr.,. of Kew York,
last years champion, has been familiar
izing himself with the local course during
the last few days. ...
to sail.
Although Captain Koenigof the German
merchant submarine had not applied for
clearance papers early this afternoon,
the work of loading her cargo went for
ward rapidly and indications were it
would be completed by night and the
Deutschland ready to sail within a few
hours. When he arrived Capt, Koenig
said he expected to sail again within
ten days. That period is up to-morrow.
The tug rhoma F. rimmons, which
towed the submersible to Baltimore from
the capes, coaled yesterday afternoon.
Captain F. Hinsch of the interned North
German Lloyd steamer Xeckar, who had
charge of the Timmons when she picked
up the Deutschland, was seen on the
limmons lust beiore sne lett tne pier
to talce on coal.
Two Autos Side-Swipe Each Other
Road to Montpelier.
Two Ford touring cars, one owned bv
Silas H. Unwin of Ifarre street Mont
pelier. and the other bv J. Sassi, collided
about H o'clock last evening near the
Capital City gas plant on the liarre road.
haeh ear carried five occupants, includ
ing the drivers, and that none of them
was injured is due to the fact that the
machimw were covering the eround at a
moderate rate of speed.
Neither party was willing to assume
all the bltime and agreed tliat. they had
miscalculated and failed to turn out far
enough. The Unwin car, driven by Law
rence Unwin, was proceeding in the di
rection of Barre and met the other car,
each machine losing a front wheel when
the, cars came together. The axle on the
Montpelier car will also have to be re
placed. The Barre car was taken to the
Kennedy garage in this city for repairs,
WILLIAMS
FACES JURY
Trial of a Topsham Man
Charged With Murder of
Joseph Fch Begun
JURY
IPLETED
-DAY AT NOON
En-vts to Unravel Orange
County Murder Case Be
gun in Court at Chelsea
PAJAMAS rfOING
TO VERMONTERS
Light
St.
Weight Garments Have Their
Uses on the Mexican
Border.
KILLED IN WHITEHALL YARD.
EARTHQUAKE IN AUSTRIA.
Great Damage. Done in Region of Fiume
Panic Among Inhabitants.
London, July 18. A Central news de
snatch from Amsterdam says that great
damage was caused by an earthquake in
the region of Fiume, Austria. In the eity
of Fiume, the despatch savs, a terrible
panic was caused by the earthquake.
Speculation in Rotten Eggs No Longer
Profitable.
Inglee Rodd, a D. & H. Employe, Hit by
Passenger Train.
Whitehall, X. Y., July 18. Inglee
Rodd, about 35 years old and employed
by the Delaware and Hudson as number
taker and assistant to the vardmastcr
n the local yard, was struck and in
stantly killed by passenger train No. 11,
northbound, at 11 o'clock yesterday
morning. Rodd had just' thrown the
switch to allow the passenger train to
enter the station and stood watching or
waiting for a light engine to pass, when
struck. , .
SUSPECTED OF THEFT.
have heard Appelmann urge German-
Americans to show their loyalty first
I to the mother country.
lie is also accused of making state
ments derogatory to the character of
President Wilson. He has always been
highly incensed at the United Stales tor
its position in regard to the shipment
Tohnsburv, July IS. The St.
Johnsburv Commercial club has ordered
00 seta of pajamas to be sent to mem
bers of Co. D of the First Vermont in
cattip at Eagle Pass, Texas. This is
in response to a telegram from the col
onel of the Vermont regiment, Ira L.
Beeves, to Harry S. Howard of Burling
ton, treasurer of the Vermont Red Cross.
The pajamas are to be worn in the.
part of the day when the men are off
duty.
IN COUNTY JAIL.
of arms to the allies when even food-
Farmhand by Name of Haggarty Ar- stuffs could not be shipped to the cen-
rested at Brandon. tral powers.
I If ie nl. I'h.t k. .......
Brandon, July 18 A man by the namely.,. . !,- a s .i
f II t .l.:. C...1I. I "'-iltTW weno U m7 m
v,i iintxtuvii wmi iiniuia cmiulii impmii ii.. j il - -i j -i
i.- l . , . , Itemed ships in the university dormitor-
n a his hmno anrl i-hrt tins hnAn in lha
ies during the summer vacation
as his home, and who has been in the
employ of Sherwin French on his farm
south of the village for a few weeks, was
arrested by Officer Siseo yesterday morn
mg on suspicion of having stolen a dia
mond ring and $rt in money from Mr.
1-renchs house, i he man had given 1 1 . , , . , , . ,. .
... t . . , . w . I Montpelier, has no legal standing and
his position Saturday even ng, but was . . t tt. 1. V
i . . I ., ... . . i . , - I m 1 1 1 ii' v auuiiiupiTi iiv V' 1 11 ill lilt" v, 1 1 -
The committee, which consists of H.
B. Shaw, an attorney of Burlington
Prof. C. W. Doten of Cambridge, Mass.,
M. C Kobbins of ew ork, t. W. Law
rence of Rutland and E. H. Deavitt of
PRESIDENT VISITS CAPITOL.
REPULSED ALL A'TTACKS.
So the Wireless Reports from Berlin
Claim To-day.
Berlin, via wireless, July 18. Heavy
attacks last night by the British againnt
l'ozieres on the Sonime front and posi
tions to the east were repulsed as were
attacks by the French at Biaches Lamai
sonnettee, Berleux and Soyecourt, ac
cording to the official statement to-day
The complete repulse of the Russian
attack in the region west and southwest i
of Lutsk was announced to-day by the
war office in a statement dealing with
the eastern front, south and southeast
of Riga. The Russians continued a strong
offensive, but. their assaults broke donu
before the German lines or were repelled
by counter attacks, where the German
trenches penetrated.
BELGIANS WIN IN AFRICA.
' Disperse Germans and Take Commandant
Prisoner.
Havre. France, July I. The Belgian
troops operating in Or ma a East Africa
have reached the shore of Lake Victoria
and in a seven-hour engngement rm July
7 dirrfd the fiermsin opposing their
advance, taking the (icrmao commandant
prisoner ami indict mff severe k on
the Irfnuinn. axrord.ng to an official
ttmer;t ls-ued from tbe Blg!a war
tZ.r. to dav.
That sulphuretted hvdrogen is not so
good an investment as it used to Le ap
pears to be proved by the following ar
tide which has appeared in Farm and
Fireside, the national farm paper, pub
lished in Springfield, Ohio.
"Many instances go to show that an
old egg is a doubtful if not a dangerous
thing to have in one's possession. Last
season's stored eggs again prove it.
When bought and stored a year ago ot
an average price of about 20 cents the
dozen, they seemed a fairly good pros
pect. In October these eggs began com
ing out of storage at 24 and 26 cents.
From then on to the close of the holi
day season the price the holder received
fluctuated between 22 and 25 cents. In
January, stored eggs touched 18 cents.
The last drive to clear out the storage
depositories before the spring slump ar
rived battered the price down to 11
cent for second grade stock.
There are a number of interpreta
tions of the cause of the lower egg
price last tall ana winter. Among the
natural influences were a large pack of
stored, cheaper pork, more unsalable
grain for chicken feed, and flatter pock
et books among the mass of consumers.
Some forunate buyers who also beratbi
fortunate sellers made a nice profit. More
operators came out barely safe, and not
an insignincant numoer experienced the
bitterness of the game of chance.
The leeson from an overpsck of
stored eggs i loss to the packers anl
the egg producers as well. Had less
eggs gone into storage last year, spring
and early mmiwr price woull hae
been nomeht lower, but fall, winter
and present prjoes woulj hae been
higher and the poultrr industrv wuli
tae beta b'ntfi" trd."
Has Conference with Senate Leader Kern
on Proposed Legislation.
Washington, July 18. President Wil
son visited the capital to-day for the first
time in months and conferred with Sen
ator Kern, the Democratic leader. It is
understood he is desirous of having the
workingmen's compensation and the child
labor bills included in the legislative pro.
gram, lhey were sidetracked by the
caucus.
ily being awav until evening. When
they returned, the ring, which was Mr.
French s sisters, and the money, which
had been placed in a chafing dish, were
missing. The farm hand denied the theft.
and as nothing could be found about
neeses. It was appointed merely to do
the work of investigating, not making,
charges at the annual meeting of the
alumni. The resolution was proposed by
C. E. Lamb of New York and read:
"Whereas, the good name of the uni-
him to show that he had taken the "sity and one of iU professors has be
articles he was released from custody.
Home Run Baker Disabled.
New York, July 18. J. Frank Baker,
the hard hitting third baseman of the
New York Americans, w ill be out of the
game indefinitely, it was announced yes
terday by the club, as the injuries he
sustained during last Friday's secoi.d
game in running against the grandstand
while chasing a foul, have been foumi
to be more serious than at first thought.
An A-ray photograph reveafcd that two
ribs were broken.
SET0N SPEAKS AT LYNDON.
Naturalist Addresses Boys and Girls' Pro
ject Class.
St. Johnsburv, July 18. Erneot
Thompson Seton, the well-known natur
a list, who is the guest of Theodore X
Vail at Speedwell farms. Lyndon, ad
dressed the Boys' and Girls' Project
class at Lyndon yesterday afternoon on
wooucratt. Many or tne children were
attired in Indian dress and were seated
around a camp fire which Mr. Seton
lighted by rubbing two sticks together.
come involved because of accusations
made by Col. Roosevelt and by certain
magazines and papers of good repute, an
investigation into the charges was
deemed advisable."
Prof. Appelmann declined last night
to make a statement to a Herald man,
"much as he would like to," because iic
was one of the parties involved.
SUICIDE OF AGED VETERAN.
Albano Brought Back from New York By
Barre Officer.
On an early morning train to-day Offi
cer Marry damme arrived trom New
York with EiMcbio Albano, charged with
f hooting with intent to kill Luigi Caruti
nt f) Webster avenue on the morning of
July 2. With the assistance of New
York detectives, Albano was arrested by
Officer Gamblo in the metropolis last
week on the eve of his departure for
Italy. Considerable delay was encoun
tered in procuring extradition papers for
the respondent, although Albano w-4s
ready to return to Barre at once. He
was locked up in the county jtail for safe
keeping and it was thought that he
would be brought to Barre late this aft
ernoon to appear at binding over proceed
ings before .Mgaistrate tl. . Scott in
citv court. Albano was held without
bail pending the efforts of the state's at
torney to arrange for a preliminary hear
ing.
Chelsea, July 18. To-day the stage
seemed set and ready for one of the most
absorbing murder trials in the annals of
range county criminal procedure. - In
he case of State vs. Otis Williams of
Topsham, charged with murder in the
first degree for alleged complicity in the
death of Joseph Felch April 22, the em
paneling of a jury was completed near
noon, after a panel of 24 talismen had
been nearly exhausted. When Judge Z.
S. Stanton ordered a recess at 12 o'clock,
it was expected that the opening state
ments by prosecuting attorneys and
counsel for the defense would be made
hen court reconvened at 2 o'clock this
fternoon.
The Jury:
Examination of talismen, begun Mon
day afternoon, was continued this fore
noon with the result that the following
jurymen were selected:
H. If. Titus of West Fairlee, retired.
Jesse M. Benjamin of Strafford, em
ploye of the Vermont Copper Co.
P. W. Flint of Braintree, farmer.
Xorman J. Pratt of Williamstown, re
tired property owner.
Curtis E. Brown of Tunhridge, farmer,
S. II. Thayer of Braintree. farmer.
EWEN McLEAY.
DROPPED DEAD.
Was in Usual Health Up to His Last
Moments.
v
Out of Health, Hobart Bliss Ended Trou
bles with Bullet.
Lebanon, X. H., July 18. Hobart Bliss,
aged 75 years and a highly respected
resident of this place, committed suicide
at this home in Poverty Lane yesterday
morning bv shooting himself through the
temple. Mr. BU8 had been out of health
for some months, lie was a lifelong
resident of Lebanon and an old veteran.
He was a member of James B. Perry
Peter Suzer. post, (. A. R,, and served in Company D
be held to-morrow
Peter Fredette on
East Montpelier Campmeeting.
East Montpelier. July IS. At the
morning session of the campmeeting here
to-day Rev. I). . Staffeld gate a Bible
reading which waa very helpful and in
structive in it nature.
Yesterday afternoon Rer. Nelson B.
Davis took for a subject, "Eternal In
heritance," his text being Matt. 24:33.
In tbe evening tbe peker waa Rev. O. J.
lUrvli. His text was John 14:6. and the
subject. "Tragedy A Perfect Tragedy."
Rev. Mr. Karvli showed that the letters
fulfilled the perfect Bible number of eev
en. The letter were then used to stand
for words as summariied briefly: "Truth
(Tl rejected (Rl result in anguish (A),
nd truth's continual rejection results in
a God-forsaken condition (Gl. Consum
mated it works eternal (E deepair and
final doom (D. The process by which
this ends is reached in yielding (Y).
The aermoo wa well delivered and com
manded cloe attention. The einging of I
Mrs. Nelson B. Davis of Boston, soloist I Perry ? He's as g'wl as gold.
and eong leader, ha bees Binrh enjnved I Lucia Yeah, but mv motto is
liurj-g the meetings. cept no substitutes." (.haparraL
Lebanon. X. H.. July 18.
aged 39 vears, dropped dead at his home of the sixth Vermont in the Civil war.
on Bank street yesterday morning. He He is survived by a wife and three
had lived here for 15 years and was in children, Mrs. Charles C. Smit-h and Ar
his usual health up to the time of his thur Bliss of this place and Dr. George E
Two of Graniteville's Young People Mar
ried in Barre To-day.
At the Presbvterian manse on Wel
lington street this forenoon at 11 o'clock
Miss Evelyn K. Mcl.eav and Alexander S.
Ewen, both of Graniteville, were married
by Rev. Edgar Crossland. The bride was
attended by Miss Winifred Reason of
Graniteville and the groomsman was
Robert Ewen, also of Graniteville. The
ceremony was witnessed by Mr. and Mrs.
Gordon McLeod and Mr. and Mrs. Daniel
McFarland. Mr. and Mrs. Ewen left by
automobile for Hardwick, whence htey
will depart on a motor trip through
northern Vermont. On their return they
will reside in Graniteville, where the
groom is emplowd at the quarries.
death.
The funeral will
from the home of
Kimball street.
Bliss, w ho resides in the West.
TALK OF THE TOWN
N. E. Ayrshire Club in Brandon.
Brandon, July 18. The New England
Ayrshire club has accepted an invita
tion given by C. M. Winslow to hold
the club's annual field day here. The
meeting will be held Wednesday at the
Brandon inn, with a banquet at 1:30 p.
m. An invitation nss aiso neen given to
all Veronters interested in Ayrshire
cattle to attend this meeting, for tn"
purpose of organizing a ermont Ayr
shire club. This state ranks high in
breeding Avrshire stock, being third in
the United
milk test.
States, and second
Leap Year PtopomL
Ysabel'e Why don't you propose
to
"Ac-
Miss Florence Bellville of Washington
street is visiting with relatives in Gran
iteville for several days.
Miss Josephine OUi of River street
left this morning for Quincv. Mas..
where she will visit with her brother.
John Celli, who is emnloved as a hotel
clerk.
Miss Harriet Houston returned to her
home on Maple avenue last evening after
visiting friends .in Boston for the past
.jro weeks. Miss Houston wa employed
by the Consolidated Lighting Co. until
the first of July. Visa Houston will
commence as secretary for Carroll H.
White, superintendent of schools, at the
beginning of the school year.
Bank Teller Town Treasurer.
Brattleboro, Julv IS. Fred C. Adams,
a bank teller, was appointed town treas
urer by the board of irlevtmen yesterday
to succeed the lute W ilford II. Brackett.
Clarence E. Merrill, employed in another
bank, and a son ot Selectman A. E. Mer
rill, was a candidate, so his father re
frained from voting. The salary is but
$20 a year, but the business is desirable
for a Iwink to handle.
Trout Dinner Cost Him $40.
Brattleboro. July H. In the municipal
court vesterdiv H. tJ. Heed of Conwav,
l .! llr hnfn T,.,l.. W.l.
F. . B,Xr to having six short .rouV and ;"omplices who plotted the death of Felch
paid a fine of $40 and costs. He and a
Volney B. Sarr of Brookfield, farmer.
Clarence A. Webster of Randolph,
farmer.
A. A. Kidder of Newbury, farmer.
Charles L. Hayward of Williamstown,
farmer.
Arthur Lamson of Brookfield. firmer.
W. S. Hathaway of Washington, farm
er.
Prejudices against capital punishment
and rejection of circumstantial evidence
as an avenue leading to conviction were
the principal reasons for disqualification
of jurymen at the session yesterday, al
though a number of talismen were ex
cused because, the condition of their
health did not warrant the rigors of
lose custody demanded of jurors. It "is
anticipated that the trial of Williams
will last at Ieat 10 days and eome of
those examined did not think their health
would benefit by comparative isolation
during that period. - Attorney General
H. G. Barber of Brattleboro, who is as
sisting in the prosecution, and State's
Attorney Frank S. Williams of Bradford
examined the talismen for tee state, and
the respondent's interests were represent
ed by Attorney David Conant of Brad
ford and Attorney Stanley C. Wilson of
Chelsea.
Orange County Stirred.
Xot in a good many years has an
Orange county happening so stirred resi
dents of this section. Even though the
examinations yesterday and to-day were
of a nature somewhat perfunctory and a
trifle tedious and colorless, the court
room was well filled with spectators. A
jui m ber of them were women. When
Mrs. Felch, wife of the man who is al
leged to have been murdered, formally
entered a plea of not guilty to a charge
of murder, her demeanor was markedly
calm. Likewise the respondent, Wil
liams, was noticeably cool when he re
sponded in clear tones, "Xot guilty," in
response to the query, "Guilty or not
guilty do you plead?" Williams is the
first to be tried and it is said that upon
the outcome of the case against him the
question of whether the woman will oe
brought to trial hinges largely. Wil
liams, a young man of rather diminutive
stature, appeared in court in a neat suits
of black cashmere. Although he is offi
cially in the custody of Deputy Sheriff
George Tracy, he occupied a seat besidn
his counsel. Williams' ruddy color of a
few months ago has been bleached by his
confinement in jail since the wind-swept
davs of late .-.pri!. Jail attaches say
that he bears up well under the ordeal
and shares w ith Mrs. Felch the hope that
the trial will clear them both of the
charges hanging over them. Williams'
wife and a babe of three months were
not in court yesterday, although they
are to be present when the trial is well
under way.
Williams had scarcely attained man's
estate when the charge of murder wa
pressed against him. The other principal
in the case is some few vears his senior
and her husband was 32 years old at tha
time of his death. Mrs. Felch, her maid
en n-ime was Anna Smith, has a daugh
ter, Bernice, aged seven. Conflicting
opinions as to the guilt or innocence of
the respondent. Williams, are naturally
expres-ed. Thrre is much sympathy for
Mrs. Felch in certain quarters, while else
where the finger of i-entiment, although
tippr-d with suspicion only, points accus
inglv at Williams and Mrs. Felch as ac-
Myttology.
Wish I heard today that Minerva
sprang from the head of .Tore
Wash Yeh. sort of an extract frcai
the bean, as it were Widow.
party were cooking a dinner in Halifax
when Warden E. H. Metcalf came upon
them. They had 11 trout in a frying
p-in. several of which were below Igal
length.
St. Johnsbury Girl Drowned.
with a perfect understanding of what its
conequcnces mignt he. .Mrs. felch is
allowed to converse with her little daugh
ter, who is t living with her grandpar
ents in Bradford. Mrs. W illiam and her
infant child are staying with relatives in
t'iroton.
Exhibits By the State.
Orew-soin- reminders of the trsged
St Johnsburv, Ju! v 1. Miss Ekrenr I doubtless enacted in the sequestered
Andcron. formerly of St. Johnbury. j Topsham sugrhoue on tbe eve of E
was drowned at Insing. M:ch notice of - ter Sunday are to b introduced a ex
the tragedy being reined h-re ye'ler- j h h ts by the Mite. The blood stained
dar. Mi Anderson enraged in i , ltl!:rg of Fc! h. who was found imbrued
Chaiita:iiua work in Si e wss'm hi own blood on tre ugrhou f.nnr.
the younge-t daughter of Mr ard Mrs !i:i I prerded tt the jury for exam-
C. H. M. .nin ot IHliaa, lormci
frt. Johnsbury re. den's.
(CoBtsctjeJ on femrtll pare.)
