10jBimwmvmm$timiiir&&
t-fv
w ''"v 'iHwwwpi'- maim
FINANCIAL EDITION
IMtor
NIGHT
ituenma
NIGHT
F Eyvl xvA
cr
Kf 01. H.-NO. 139
PlIITjABELPirrA, WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 191G.
Cortnionr, 1010, bi in FcftMa Lxcom CourAMt.
PRICE ONB GENT?
ERA
GERMANS SMASH FRENCH LINE
FOR SIX-MILE GAIN IN GREAT
BATTLE NORTH OF VERDUN
Brown Prince's Army Sweeps Forward
!by Terrific Attacks Suffer Enor
mous Losses But Capture 3000
Prisoners and Booty
r
snch Defenses Near Consevoye and Haumont Crumble
Beneath Onslaught Battle Still Eages Teutons
Make Big Advance in Alsace Paris
Admits Lines Are Broken.
. LONDON, Feb. 23.
The Crown Prince has delivered the greatest smnsh ngninst the Allies'
jtern front since the English lines were broken nt Ypres last Ma.
t In a mighty offensive against the French outer positions defending the
mat fortress of -Verdun, the Germans have captured nearly six miles and
-. i,if nf French trenches, according to an official statement from Berlin
Pfj-afternoon. The German War Office also reports the capture of 3000
W tfrpnch prisoners and great quantities of booty.
The French War Office admits in nn official statement this afternoon
. that the Crown Prince is lining a great army against the French lines
l" -vMrtnof Verdun, on a front 15 miles wide. No similar attack has been made
k"' lj either side in the west in many months, excepting the French offensive in
Champagne mat oepiemDor.
The battle is raging less than ten miles from tho city of Verdun, itself
a tho cast bank of tho Mouse River. .Berlin reported tho Germans have
gloried back the French on a wide front- between the village of Consenvoyc,
TM the JJieUSe, njm WO Village ui Azumica, uijjm, iiinua tusv i;i uk "'".
& n nnnHior forwnrd drive, tho Germans have capturea vuu yaras oi
French trenches east of Heidweiler, in Alsace, tho German War Office
announced. Eighty French prisoners were taken in tnis operation.
Paris reported tho heaviest fighting around the Haumont Woods, just
'Lau nf thn nonsenvovc-Azanncs lines, indicating that tho Crown Prince
-b attempting to blast a way through to the outer forts of Verdun. The
German losses have been enormous, according to tno rrcnen ouraai .
'mint, which quotes German prisoners as declaring that entire German bat-
fUIfons haye been slaughtered.
, ' The German infantry attack was preceded by 4 flours oi continuous
bombardment, which evidently wreckod tho advanced French positions. The
Crown Prince is smashing southward, hoping to conquer the outer defenses
of Verdun and bring up German 42-centimetrcs to level the great fortress.
in.'. iiTiiiT tw nnnnDTO PJIMO
!f Following is tho text of tho. official report issued by the Berlin War
0fflce:i . ,
Hn the neighborhood of tho trenches captured east ot aoucnez tin
lu nn Mondnv tho enemv's nositions were found to have been damaged
,.nui k mininir nnorntinnn. Tho number of Drisoneratak'cn ? val'
fosibecn increased to 11 officers and 348 men of tho rank and file. We also
W-..-1W... .-! r il... v.,.
wok tnree mucninu guu num ure vm-mj.
' VWe penetrated the enemy's lines for threojulometrcs (im mnc3j, ai
Consenvoye, taking 3000 prisoners.
0n the Maas hills (tho heights of the Mcuso) artillery uuois navo con-
tinued. East of the Maas (Meuso River) wo attacked a position wmen mo
Stay had been engaged in fortifying for a year and a half in tho neignDor-
irtAl nf Pftnaonvnvni
' V ''"'" v T , ., 1. !.--, 41,
"In tho northern sector of tho Woevro district ttno region uclwcc.. .
Meuse and Mosello Rivers) we delivered an attack extending over a i.um -
nearly soven miles. , ,?,
"This attack was pushed forward and we peneirateu .. --..., -
Shir, inflicting sanguinary losses. In addition to prisoners, w .,.....
large amount of booty.
r ,,nn.. Aion. nn attack to the cast of Heidwiler resulted in tho
capture of an enemy position extending over a front 700 yards wide and 400
yards deep.
"Eighty prisoners fell into our hands.
"There have been numerous air engagements behind tho enemy s front,
In all of which our airmen maintained tho upper hand.
r Tho Pnrln Wnr Office communiciuo states that tho battle is proceeding
FTiolently, and ndmits that tho French troops have evacuated tho village of
Haumont This position was abandoned alter a sanguinary iuuuu.1.
wnich tho Germans suffered heavy losses.
Tho text of tho communique follows:
"In the Artois district wo recaptured somo trench sections in the forest
rf Givenchy.
"In tho region to tho north of Vordun a bombardment by tho enemy,
energetically answered by us, continued during tho night. Infantry engage-
ttcnts have developed on a front of altogether about 15 kilometres (9.3 miles).
rthe conflict continues with violence from the right bank or the meuso to tne
southeast of Herbebots. Wo evacuated tho village of Haumont, of which we
till hold tho outskirts, after ,iu bloody conflict, in which our troops mulcted
ery heavy losses on tho enemy.
I "To the east of that point a counter-attacK permiueu ua io ..., .
peater part of Caures Forest, located in tho salient occupied yesterday by
$ enemy to the north of Beaumont. , , ,
"A strong Gorman attack launched against uerueuu ..,
necked by our curtains of fire, .
f "According to stories of prisoners, certain German units wero completely
Jeatroyed In these actions. ,
"An artillery duel which is slowly developing is going on in tne region
! Haute Charliere and Fromeizy. i
"In rrmino in nn rPtHnn of Nomeny. our artillery has shown conslder-
ftble activity. An enemy reconnaissance north of Letrokourt was unable
reach our lines."
JOHN THOMSON
JOHN THOMSON, HEAD
OF THE FREE LIBRARY,
DIES; NOTED WRITER
City's System of Books for the
Masses Mainly Obtained
Through His Efforts
of Years
INTERESTED CARNEGIE
John Thomson, for 22 years head of
tho Philadelphia Free Library and nn
essayist, of repute, died tltlu morning nt
his home, 2101 North Camac Btrect ills
family was nt his bcdsldo nt tho tlmo of
his death, which resulted from a compli
cation of diseases. Mr. Thomson, who
was SO years old, had been confined to
bed for two months, and hope for his re
covery was abandoned several days ago,
when ha becamo unconscious.
It was mainly through Jlr Thomson's
cffoits that tho city of Philadelphia ob
tained ami maintained the system of free
libraries which every section enjoys. It
was ho who, appointed librarian In 1801,
when a Mnglo room sutllced to hold tho
1G0O volumes, directed Its expansion until
It now has 22 brnnches In which are
3SC.000 boolffl. And It war John Thom
son who Interested Andrew Carnegie to
give $1,500,000. to the free library system
of this city for tho erection of 30 branch
WW- . - -
KNOWN ACROSS THE SKA.
John Thomson was as woll known nlong
the Atlantic seaboard and across tho At
lantic as ho was to clubmen and educa
tional authorities here. He was tho au
thor of ninny volumes, tho majority of
which are used ns reference woilts. HIr
works Included n "Descriptive Catalog
of the Llbrnry of C. H. Clark," "Descrlp.
live Catalog of tho Works of Sir Walter
Scqtt," "Hither and Thither" (a collection
of essays Issued a decade ago), and other
catalogs ot tho collections of bnoklovcrs
Mr. Thomson waH born In Kngland, and,
after being educated In l-omlon, came to
this country In 1S81, settling In Philadel
phia. Hewns Inter appointed prlato sec
retary to1 Clarence II Clark and Jay
Gould, which positions ho held Jointly for
11 years..
When tho subject of a free library was
broached in 1891, the nnnie of John
Thornton was mentioned prominently, anil
it occasioned no surpriso when ho was ap
pointed librarian when tho system was
final lj- started In tho same year
With all his work In tho InteroUs of
educating tho average citizen through
better methods of circulating tho books
(2,000,000 volumes now being taken out
Continued an- l'pgc Fifteen, Column One
BREAK WITH GERMANY SEEN
IN WILSON'S ATTITUDE; MAY
TELL CONGRESS IN PERSON
U-Boat Controversy Reaches Acute
Stage Berlin Reported to Desire
Long-Drawn-Out Negotations.
No Further Concessions
Administration Hears Germany Is Sending Instructions
to Von Bernstorff to Play for Time in Settlement
of All Disputes Now Pending Senate to
Be Warned to Keep Hands Off
WASHINGTON, Fob. 23.
The appearance of President Wilson before Congress in tho next few
days to announce his desire to break off diplomatic relations with Germany
was forecast this afternoon by high Administration officials.
This action is certain to follow, one official said, if intimations coming
from German sources are correct.
Those intimations arc that the German Foreign Office is sending instruc
tions to Ambassador Bernstorff to play for further delay in tho determin
ation of the Lusitania dispute and for a long discussion of technicalities over
the armed merchantman decree scheduled to go into effect March 1.
Bernstorff is expected to receive his instructions in the next 48 hours.
Today it was declared by reliable authority that tho President intends
to make his refusal to temporize so emphatic that there will be no doubt
left of his purpose to require a closing of tho Lusitania negotiations in
keeping with the original demands of this Government.
BREAK WOULD BE NEXT STEP
Since Germany is not expected to withdraw the armed merchantman
decree, it was pointed out, one thing only will be left for tho President to
do and that is to cut off diplomatic relations. This would mean the hnnding i
of his passports to Ambassador Bernstorff.
Tho President, it is declared, is committed to the move, but does not
desire to act without first laying the matter before Congress. That, it is
said, explains the long conference Monday night between tho President and
Senate Leader Kern, Chairman Stone, of tho Senate Foreign Relations Com
mittee, and Chairman P'lood, of the House Foreign Affairs Committee.
Every party to that conference has refused to discuss the nature of the
matters discussed, but it is known that at least one of them has indicated
his personal apprehension that certain courses considered might lead to war.
This determination by the President, it is said, is the explanation for
the action of Senator Stono in calling off his own speech in the Senate defend
ing tl0 Administration's foreign policy.
PRESIDENT THROUGH PARLEYING
The President, officials said today, is done with parleying. Already, they
say; as tho result of vigorous activities on his part in the last few days, the
ngithlion am"ongtho Democrats in Congfcdbff for a resolution warning Amer
icans to keep off armed merchantmen has collapsed.' Investigation, this after
noon disclosed that "Democrats favoring such a resolution have not changed
their mind, but tho idea that tho White House would support the action hav
ing been blasted, tho desire to press a resolution has disappeared.
rrosldent Wilson has serea warning
QUICK NEWS
TERRIFIC EXPLOSIONS ON BELGIAN BORDER
AMSTERDAM, Teb. 23.-Scorcs of terrific explosions were heard
along the Belgian frontier Tuesday, preceded by repeated alarms and
tho blowing of horns and whistles. Travelers reaching Amsterdam
reported that ia all probability allied aviators were raiding the new
railway the Germans oie bulldinc; between Alx-la-Chnpellc and Vise.
BURTON ANNOUNCES CANDIDACY FOR PRESIDENT
COLUMpUS, O., i'eb. 23. Theodore Burton of Cleveland, former
Ujijtcd Statep Senator, filed an announcement wltlj the Secretary of
Slatu today tU?t ho would be a candidate for the preaidcntlal noniiU3
tjon on tb,c EejiubJcan ticket.
DU PONT CO. DECLARES '22, .EXTRA DIVIDEND
WILM1NTON,, Del., Feb. 23. Tlief directors of E. I. du Pont do Nemourn &
Compaiiy have declared 'the rcmilar quarterly dividend of 1 per cent, on tho
common stock and u sneclnl dividend ot $5 In cash and $19 In Anglo-Kronch
bonds at 9!i with Intciest, payable Muich 15 to holdcia of record February 29.
Tho dltcctortt also declared tho regular quarterly dividend of 1 per cent, on tho
debentures stock, payable April 25 to holders of record April 10. The regular
quarterly dividend of 1 per cent, was also declared tin old du Pont common
stock, payable May 1.
DILL FOR RECEIVER FOR TEXAS & PACIFIC DISMISSED
DALLAS. Tex., Feb. 23. Federal .ludfeo Meek ruled thlB afternoon that ha
had no Jurisdiction In the ult of the Hankers' Trust Comany of Now York
for appointment of a ivveUcr for the Texas and Puclnc Itallroad and tho
Now Orleans and Pacific, a subsidiary, and dlsmosscd the bill.
P. R. R. FREIGHT TRAFFIC DEPARTMENT CHANGES
The Hoard of Directors of the X'cnnsylvnnlu Itallroad Company, at a mectinff
today, confirmed the following changes In the organization of the Freight Trafflo
Department, Incident to the ictlrcment of Division Freight Agent Udward T.
Johnson on March 1, under tho penaion regulations of the company: J. B. Large,
Division Freight Agent at Erie, Pa., will succeed Mr. Johnson as Division Freight
Agent at Buffalo, N. Y. -Wllllnm C. Glynn, Division Freight Agent at Altoona, Pa.,
will succeed Mr. Large. D. S. Ncllson, Freight Solicitor at Pittsburgh, Pa., will
bo advanced to Division Freight Agent at Altoona, Pa.
REVOLT IN CHINESE PROVINCE; MARTIAL LAW ON
SHANGHAI, Feb. 23. Martial law has been proclaimed at Chang-Sha, capital
of Hu-Nan province, because of revolutionary disturbances.
AGREE TO FLETCHER AS MEXICAN AMBASSADOR
WASHINGTOIN. Feb. 23. The Sonato Foreign Relations Committee today
decided to recommend this confirmation of Henry P. Flotchcr as Ambassador to
Mexico, ano appointment has been held up since early la8t December because of,
opposition to President 'WllSoh's M;elnrtrt!r,Tn(jr1yo1 jir .IhfcSFoVBlKft
Bolatlons Committee was 12 to 2. Senators Borah, of Idaho. tfnd'Wilffnm Xfd?ii
Smith, of Michigan, both Republicans, voted against tho recommendation
on Congress that ho will not tolerate nny
Interference nt this time with the In
ternational relations of the United States.
Tho situation bo far as tho Administration
Is concerned, It wnn learned upon abso
lutely reliable authority today. Is that any
ngltatlon now In C'ongres which could be
construed As a. criticism ot tho Stnte De
partment must Inevitably have a seriously
adverse effect among tho belligerent nuro
peau nations.
Tho Administration will glvo frank
wnrnlng to tho Senate that nny discussion
of nn embargo resolution or the Goro res
olution which would demand that pass
ports bo refused Americans traveling on
belligerent vessels will, In the opinion ot
the rreuldent, seriously embarrass Amer
ican Interests. AVhether this will prevent
nn open debate, however, is very doubtful
There are many members of both houses
Continued on Tane Three, Column live
ASPHALT CO. TO SHARE
PROFITS AND PENSION
FAITHFUL EMPLOYES
General Company Announces
Plan to Increase Interest
Among Men Basis of
"v Distributing Earnings
POLITE BURGLARS, ONE
IN FULL DRESS, CAUGHT
AFTER ROBBING HOUSE
BRITISH VESSEL WHICH
LEFT HERE JANUARY 16
DAMAGED BY BOMB
Steamship Strathclyde Towed
Into Queenstown Badly Crip
pled, Message From Queens
town Says
THINK SPY WORKED HERE
NEW JERSEY MOVIE MEN FIGHT CENSOR PILL -
THENTON. -Feb. 23. Movie men from all over New Jersey today made a
vigorous protest beforo the Houso Judiciary Committee agaimst the establishment
of ii State Boaid of .Motion Picture Censors provided fo In a bill now befor
tho Legislature. Tho bill was supported by clergymen and representatives of
various Holy Name societies of thp State.
OPERATIVE NEXT YEAR
)RI0SA AVANZATA
ITALIANASUTRENTO
?orti Esterni del Formidabile
Pumpo Trincerato Minac-
ciati dalle Truppe Alpine
notlzle che glungono. da Jloma cl
"J 41 una ripres 41 attlvlta' nella
1 suerru del Trentino. La forze
QQ. la trnrmc. nlnlna hannn imnllltn
Injportante operuzlone nella regiono
j "luisira del Brenta, a nordOYst
'rgo. ocrupando la zona montuosa dl
) 6 COmnletandnnA Ia nnnnulRta. dono
tsfarnl dl combattLmentl con I'occopa-
wi auro locality verso l'insellatura
4Uo.
4Wpre In 15a paglna j8 ultima o plu'
whi notuie sulIa guernt, in Jtat-
LOST AJfP FOUND
M- Spur.
SfiKHKUl.
1 R.
IAWT. RKWARD
I'OPLAK 1SI1 J
'M'llJliAO I ftai ranlalnliLir kail 1
ii iwr4 ,U liju 18-
THE WEATHER
-. , j
FORECAST
For Philadelphia and vicinity-'
Rain tonight, probably turning to'
anoxa Thursday, followed by clearing;
colder late tonight and Thursday;
moderate variable winds becoming
northwest.
For details see page 17.
' m
Kills AVffe-and Himself
BALTIMORE. Fb. 3?. Followinsr an
argument In the dining room of Qanz
horn's Hotel her this afternoon a man
believed frpm papers round In his pockets
to ba Arthur WW of 9:9 North Strlcksr
street, this city, walked to the front door
of the plae with a -woman believed to
be bis wife, drew a revolver and ehot the
woman. He then killed 1dmelf W'th the
same weapon. The woman, died a short
time later at Mercy Hospital
1000 at Marcus Hook Minstrels
Nearly 1000 persons wltnsse4 the sec
ond perfornutnoa pf the VUcose AthUtio
Association's minstrels at Marcus Hook
last night When the show was originally
given ot TlHursdity uf last wt4W. 1119 pr
feus gr la the iuidleiK. '
Annquncemept of a profit-sharing and
pension plan for oltlcern and salaried em
ployes was made by the Cleheral Asphalt
Company today. About 300 employes will
beneflt. The plan applies to tho com
pany and all of Its subsidiaries.
The pension plan becomes operative
from date, while tha proflt-sharfpg -will
be made after tile annual meeting of the
Asphalt Comjuuiy in May, 1917. The
first pioneys to be taken from the com
pany's earnings for profltieharing will
come. from the fiscal year ending January
31, 1917.
f In order to participate in a snare ot the
company pronia an employe or omcer
must have been In the employ of the com
pany continuously for one year prmore
prior to the expiration of the fiscal year
ending January 31 next, and must have
received a salary of t?0 or more a month
Before any profits' will bo shared with
the employes the company must have
earned enough for the payment of the
preferred dividend, which Is at tho annual
rate of E per cent, and at present Is equal
to 65!,705 yearly. After the preferred
dividend s cared for the employes will
share. ,
AFTER DIVIDEND PAYMENTS
The apportionment vtlll be made at the
rate of 1 per cent, of ttifi salary of ach
employe for every $100,000 of gain sur
plus over and above the preferred divi
dend requirements.
The action of the company In deciding
upon a profit-sharing and pension plan Is
following' the footsteps of other coay
panles which have taken similar action,
notably the Pennsylvania, Railroad. While
the railroad has no profit-sharing plan,
It has a pension, and many employes are
retired each year
The official announcement made by the
Ccueral Asphalt Company follows
Tlie aenerai Aspuait company and Ha
subsidiaries vvllt to Increase the iatereat
ot their employes In the acllvltlea and
welfare of the companies, after the annual
Suitcase Filled With Loot From
Home of Mr. and Mrs.
Charles Peacock Betrays
Two Thieves
HELD WITHOUT BAIL
3Uam4 B4 !' JrViH-, Cwlasi Tli
The politest burglars captured for a
long tlmo wero arrested early today by
Patrolman Scull, of the 32d street and
Woodland avenue station. They stripped
the home of Mr. and Mrs. CharleB Pea
cock, of 20 South 46th street, who are
at Palm Beach, Fla., from top to bottom.
The two menvona of whom was In a
dress suit, wero seep by the policeman
slipping from one dark spot to another
at 46th and Spruce streets after mid
night $cul) decided to Investigate the
bulky bag one ot them carried. When
he stole up on them, they at once tried
to engage him In a pleasant conversation,
but when he demanded to have a look
at the bag the men handed it over at once.
They even spread; out the articles and
explained In well modulated and polite
phrases Just why they were carrying
jewelry, furs, silverware and clothes
around at that hour When the police
man refused to believe them, they
shrugged their shoulders and offered to
go and explain It all at the station house.
Of course, they were annoyed at having
to watt at the police box untlt a patrol
came, but they were most polite with all
their protestations. They pave their names
as Peter Shea, 35 years old, ot Kansas
City, and Harry Flynn, S years old, of
Chicago. Finally, they admitted to
Patrolman. Scull that they had robbed
a house, but they "really couldn't remem-.
be which one t -was." Special Policemen
ManafTey and Falvey arrlve4 with the
patrol and the two men under arrest
deplored the trquble they were causing
the Police Department They described
the house they had entered minutely and
offered to help And It
The thres policemep. and the two polite
burglars then went up and down streets,
through, alleys tfoo, over fences for three
hours before the'bUrglars could point out
the house they hd robbed They apol
ogized profusely 'during the swrfh for
innr mK, oi no.wiage of the topography
f the oily eayfcuj that my were stran
m fa tow.
A bomb explosion nbonrd the 4117-ton
British provision ship Strathclyde, which
sailed from this city Jnnuary 18 for Man
chester, Hngland, vvbb reported In cable
grams from Queenstown, Ireland, Into
which port the vessel, baaty damaged, was
towed today,
The bomb was placed on board the
steamship while It was docked hero, ship
ping men pointed out, f the reported ex
plosion Is true.
No details were given In he dispatch,
except that no one Is allowed to board
tho vessel. A cablegram to the ship's
agents, Fumess, Withy & Co., Ltd , with
offices In the Bourse, today, briefly an
nounced the arrival of tha crippled vessel
at Queenstown. No cause was advanced
In the latter message.
The steamship carried an Inflammahle
cargo of oils, provisions and automobile
parts valued at J313.4I1, the bulk of the
cargo consisting of wheat, corn and flour,
Captain John C. Murray, a Scotchman,
master of the vessel, had a crew of 36
men. .alt Englishmen. There were no
passengers.
That a German agent or sympathizer
either secreted himself aboard or placed
a bomb and time fuse in tho hold while
the ship was taking on Its cargo here was
suggested today.
The Strathclyde was loaded at the foot
of East Cambria street. Port Richmond,
In a lonely spot, under heavy guard, but
It was learned that after the work of the
stevedores was nmsned the watch was
relaxed for a few minutes until sailing
time.
The cargo was not consigned for mili
tary use. It was said at the oftlces of
Furness, Withy A Co., the agents, today.
That special guards supervise the loading
of vessels at this dock was admitted, and
this custom will be continued. The guards
allow no one without the proper credent
tlals to board vessels or loiter about the
pier
No suspicious circumstances surround
ing the departure of the ship were noticed,
"ina crew is j-ngnon," u was aaaeu.
"There were positively no Germans or
sailors ot German descent among the
crew. The policy of guarding the loading
of vessels, which has been in force for
some time, will continue, whether or not
an Investigation shows that a, bomb really
was exploded aboard the ship."
The Strathclyde. a one-funnel, two-masted
freighter, Is owned by Burrell & Co.,
Glasgow. It Mas built sir years ago, and
Is 370 feet long.
The more Important Items of the cargo,
according to the manifest, are as, follows:
111! bain r It ilul lll.ITt 00
310 ucke otirch .. ... tl.7t-3f
sod;
ONE MAN CAUSES STRIKE OF 1200
HAKRISBURG, Feb. 23. Twelve hundred union miners of the Lykens
anthracite district struck this morning to compel the reinstatement of William
Stuppy, a discharged foreman, -lio, It is alleged, was dismissed because he
would not load the mine cui-h as heavily as tho operators desired. Alleged exces
sive "topping" has been a souico of contention at Lyltcns for somo time. It la
reported that Willinmstown mlneia may declare o, sympathy strike.
MEN WHO DESTROYED ZEPPELIN GET $1,000
PARIS, Feb. 23. A gift of J1000 was given today by the MarqulB D'Ornano
for distribution among the members of the gu'n crew that destroyed the Zeppelin
"LZ-77" near Bar Lo Due on Monday night.
CZAR OFFERS COMMAND TO MONTENEGRIN MONARCH
ROME, Feb. 23. The Gazetta del Popolo, of Milan, states that Emperor
Nicholas of Russia has offered the command of a Russian army corps to IfjneT
Nicholas jot Montenegro, who holds tho rank of Russian field marshal.
JAPANESE WARSHIPS REPORTER IN MEDITERRANEAN
LONDON, Feb. 23. The Admiralty today would not comment on German
reports, transmitted through Copenhagen, that a -Japanese fleet, accompanied!
by a largo number of ulrcraft, has. arrived In the Mediterranean to cq-oporate
with the Allies. The Times, Jr publishing tho German report, which Js sujd
to have come from Italian souices, recalled the fact that It was rumored mora
than a month ago that Japanese warships would leave for the Mediterranean
to project Japanese shipping against Austro-German submarines,
AMERICANS TO AID NEEDY BERLINERS
BERLIN. Feb. 23. Tho American CJiamber of Commerce. In Berlin, on
March 1, will Inaugurate a new auxiliary kitchen for persona -who are In need
owing to the -war. Berlin papers, commenting on the announcement today, speak
with satisfaction of "this proof of American sympathies."
. CITY .GET,S ?45,224.37 INSURANCE TAX
City Treasurer William McCoach today received a. State warrent for J4K jjj t
from t tho Auditor General to cover tho sum due the county on tax pale fey
foreign Insurance companies operating n Philadelphia, "This amount -will ba
appropriated by Councils to tho Firemen's Pension Fund.
" "' - i mini ill. mi.. ,
RUSSIA DISCLAIMS DESIGNS ON SWEDEN
PE.TROGRAD, Feb. 23. Foreign Minister Sazanoff, addressing the- Pgma
today, made a statement that is expected to go far toward calming the antf.
Russian feeling that has been growing in Sweden for manyvmonthn. He declared
that Russia had no designs on Sweden, adding: ' ,
"Wo must obtain, an outlet to a free sea Jn quite another direction."
The Minister reiterated his previous assertions that Russia la determined
to continue fighting until Germany has been thoroughly whipped, 1ut said that
neither he nor any one else could predict when thenar would end,
Autometllo tnjlna peril, whel and
booda .
10.005 buhel 0U
lt.OOO bmhI wheat
40 toe buohl wtt
H IU llCitl pour
U, xtki corn
3I.00O.00
17 (09 00
U 100.00
io ae
In addition, the cargo contained 15(9
barrels, casks and drums of lubricating
oil apd grease and red oil.. and a tjuamuy
of ferro-slUcon, ootun and slut waste and
miscellaneous articles.
DUTCH TANKER FROM NEW YORK SUNJOiY MINE
ROTTERDAM. Feb.. 23. The Dutch tank steamship tLFlandre. JQfS tons
bound from New York to Rotterdam, has been sunk, in'Sumablir bv a mm
Only two.merobers of the crew were reported saved In tha?pt advicea received
here today. La Flandre sailed from New York on FcbruJwy, g.
CHILD SCALDED BY COFFEE DIES
A cup of coffeo that Us tiny fingers sought to grose caused the death today
of Thomas, the IX mpnths-old baby of Mr. and Mrs. Harry Ftynn, of H Devon
street. The child died In the Germantown flospjtal. jts eyes, face and chut
were seared by the liquid which it upt from the table two days. fcgo.
RUSSIA WOULP BUY BACK CAPTURED WARSHIPS
TOKJO. F. S3. Riitfa U negotiating wRk Japan tor 14 Uamcdum
pigebase- ot svrl wrsUp wfctel were cptur4 lA tfcs RuaKQ-Jip v
1
