THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Cloudy and probably rain to-day; colder
and clearing to-morrow.
Highest temperature yesterday, 41 : lowest, 17.
Petalled weather, mall 11 ml murine tcpoi Is on page It.
IT SHINES FOR ALL
VOL. LXXXm. NO. 176.
NEW YORK, WEDNESDAY. FEBRUARY 23, 1916. fpvr,. um. bV me su jtinm...
PRICE TWO CENTS.
nnrf I'ublLihing Assnriatlnn.
WILSON SPORNS
PLEA TO STOP
OCEAN TRAVEL
Tells ('onrro88 Gci-many
Must Let Americans
Alone on High Seas.
INSISTS THIS ISSUE
MUST m FORCED
llorlin Koply. Expected in
IK Hours, Will Say As
surances Stand.
WasHINHTon. Feb. 22. President Wll-,
on has rmph. ideally rejected prois'sals
from members of his party In Congress
,i. h would icllcve him of the icsponsl
bilil) .if loivltig an Issuo with Uirmany
ovci the new Herlln submarine dcelarn
Una. Such proposals took the form of
FUKKeted legislation prohibiting Amrri
Mil citizens from travelling on armed
nirri'h.iutiuen.
The sugKistious were laid tiefoic the
rir.idcnt li I'h.ilrinrn Stone and Flood
of t ie Senate and Hons.. Foreign Af
fair, . ointnlltces rcspo lively and by
Majority Leader Kern of the Senate at
the conference held at the While House
i.i-t lngllt
Tne President rejected the pioios.ils
without qualification ami tin conferees
r i ue away from the White House with
t! understanding that it was Mr. Wil
kin's tlnn Intention to Insist upon a
. lean cut settlement of the submarine
i.e.' on the basts of the pre.iuit law and
f.uts In the case.
Mrmb. rs of Congress who to-day
rcard some of the details of the confer
tme declared that tht 1'iesldent Is pre
pared to Insist upon tin- withdrawal by
(Jirmany of her declaration of Intention
to torpedo without warning all armed
enemy merchantmen after March 1,
Mut Kciprct American.
Tlio rrt-.ildent was dewcrlbed as de
termined that Clermany must aeknowl-
edmt the rlKht of American rltliens to i
travel In nafety on I lie iiikii was, wnetuer
the t-hlps they used be unarmed or armed
for defence, belligerent or neutral.
The rresidftit la bald to have tfrown
Impatient over the delay that has oc
curred In the xubmarln negotiations
nnd to have Intimated to member of
t'onrem that the II vt of American
rltlzenx have already too Ions been put
In Jeopardy.
Pemocruta In the Kenate were under
the. distinct Impreaslou that the Presi
dent had Just about madn up his mind
tlint the time for parleylUK was orr
diid that thern must be a definite under
Handing between (.ennany and the
1 lilted .Slates in the" near future If
Mendly relations aro to continue.
XoliWthstandlnK the extraordinary
'Key which marked last nlKlit's eon
cme some of the details of what took
l.u leaked out at the Capitol. While
' ere Is Mill it disposition In most
.alters to bellovo tlm rresldent will not
r.fiiM: to carry on any reasonablo dls
uiKlon with (.ennany In regard to the
quistlim!. at Ismiu an air of iiesHltulsm
a- more generally noticeable In Con
:ri - circles than at any other time Mince
lie diniculty with Cermany became
uti
Vfn Pii.iiionr .ti'tloa.
I .it Cermany will seek to rilfcuss the
i ii'irnie issue u greater length and
mn pluiis go so far as to agree vol-
lai tv lo a tHitKineinent of Iter new
c 'i-.itini was strongly intimated In
'I'ii ntlal ndvlces which reached
Was mpton to-day from Uerllu.
T ciHirercnce tit the White House
li'-' ii. ahl. It was learned, wan Initiated
b; (linrinan Stone of the Senate Kor
( e IN i.itmnti C'ummittee, When the
I'n- .iei-i nas Informed of the Scuatiir'a
it'itii-t fur an appointment and learned
t'ni .o Sentitor wished to (IIscush with
in t ie Herman situation he tt once
'i'l lo call in Senators Kern and
1 !. .i
Tin thiie Democrat called together.
I" 'd w.th them a cope of a Joint
ris hi ..ii prohibiting American citizens
(r.i. ii-ixellmg on belllgeient linens. It
1s arned t,,it the visitors laid the
'- ' oil before the l'lesldent with the
untiri 'inn that Its iassage or the pas
urn ot a similar one would relieve the
A.I inflation of the embarrassment of
t tne position that merchant e.s
- ae the right to iirm and of In-.!--
on. this right In face of the new
'i .lecree and In face of the orgu-
ni' i- to the lontrary which Secretary
" - 'aid before the Kntcnto 1'onern.
T e President, it Ls said, emnhatlcallv
f'j i.. I Hi., suggestion, .declaring that
the i i-age of such a reHolutlort would
I'f
' ' r ii lo the Intentions of the
in-i stiou. The conferees are said
i'. neeii taken back by the heat
d b the President.
All
l.
i.
II r mi n Harked Like Hill.
i' ii (Jure Introduced a resolution
'' - ii, trader on January 5, follow
' i .iifiriuee which ho had that day
sccictary llryan. It prohibited
-.unco of p,isssirt to any citizen
ountiy who would not agree
ci Hi not to travel on a vessel
11 g ' if Hag of a belligerent nation.
v ' same time Senator lloro Intro
'' I another resolution prohibiting
or clearance, to ossein of u bel-
' nallnii If they attempted to
Vncrlcau citizens on board and
bidding Americans from travel-
any neulial ships engaged in
.lining munlllonH of war.
V' n. Him he resigned Mr. llryan
' i .. position that such legislation
'i lie passed, dularmg that It wan
i i.g'it lor a few AluerlcanH who per-
' I :n travelling on lielllgerent mer
' ' mi to Jeopardize the relations ex
- ... tween the , I'nlted States and
' g . ii.itnniH and thereby embroil the
I'' ii I States in the war.
lb i ly It is said Senator (.ore haa
l".i v -.'ting Mr. llryan in Florida, Fol
!" a hl return, talk Iiuh been revived
t ''. lieniociatlc cloak rooms at Hie
'' ' ' ' in favor of legislation which
,i hast prohibit Amcilcana from
'ig on armed ships of any of the
I .'Hilt 1 'ow els.
r reMjIutloiiH of a similar kind
1 - .ten Inlioduced In the Senate and
1 lespertlvely by Henator lloko
1 ' a id Representative AlucUMnore,
' iiiociatH.
ii ng lo coulldentlHl Information
' i' bed Wiishlngton to-day from
Berlin, CJorm.my'H reply to the Inquiries
of Secretary Lansing roncernlnir the
(fleet of tlin new (iernuin submarine
declaration la expected to r.-acli the. tier
limn Hmbassy here within the next
forty. I'lght hours.
It Is said In these .-kIvUoh Hint licr
mmiy will ilcrlain Hint h.r ii.,p...
tlnn In no sense niilllilt-H the previous
as.surutices Whlrh she had given Hip
United Htates In the l.uslt.mla ease that
unresisting liners will not lie attacked
without warning.
Klie will Insist, however, that these
assurances were mver Intended to ap
ply to untied liners, ilermatiy having
held from the Winning of tlm war
that merchantmen Hint were armed lost
their character im merchant e-nls ami
became auxiliary ship of wa
Calling attention In the f.ici Ilia' none
of the Hrltl.th liners im -, asslng back
and forth iuto-s the A'l.mtlc ix enticd
anyway, nnd that France docs not arm,
any of her merchant whips the reply
will intimate that the new dt.tnr.ttlon
In setting forth the purpose n lurnedn I
armed enemy merehatit ship" without i
warning Is not likely .in i pnietio.il :
proposition to affect Americans.
At the same time the advices indl-
- " iiii.iiy win scck id atom a utrtci.
refusal to square her new declaration
with past assurance" liy proposing a
discussion of the dlstlnetlnu. which she
Ix umihle to ilraw, belt, ecu ships that
are armed for offence ami those armed
for defence.
LOSES $3,000 FROM SATCHEL.
Woman ltriorls IIUniienranee of
Monet In Sulivtit).
Mis. Hell II Nelson, 50,i SWtli htreet,
lirnoklMi, retiorteil to the nolle,, last
veiling that on Monday evening she
lost Is.'Min m live, ten and twenty dol- j
"'Mrs!' NeS.";i:::.!"i!u.band. Carlo.
a machliilsl. Inherlleil the money In the I
shaiie of a mortgage when In r bus.
I ..i nil's father died In Hlnghamlon, N. V.,
n few uioii t lis ago. She went to Itlng
liamton on Sunday airl the following
day sold Hie mortgage. She had In
tended lo take (be cash and o to Penn
s.vlvaula to lnet.t It. Hccnmlng III she
hastened lo this city, arriving here about
T o'clock.
She got Into an uptown subway train
by mltnk mill was at Kmirie..ntti
street before she lenllzed she was travel,
ling up !tileail of down town At that
moment she leached in her Mit-'hel for, The (i.ivitnoi piiniiptt. told his polill
her liandki" chief and dlirove red that cal .nlv,ers that be neb onied a tight In
the money was gone. ,. ,rmiirles with William Itames lead.
' jn (iniMinenls, and was t'dd that Mr
HANEL, SUSPECTED
SLAYER, CAPTURED!
l-'oimd in ItitHiiniHT. bill I te
llies Ho Kilted Mrs. 1IHI
nor in Itrooklyn.
Hai.timouk, leb. 22. 1'Villowlnir a
countrywide seaich, Joseph Hanel.
wanted In New York lo answer to Hie
charge of killing Mrs. Julia Heilner. 217
Albemarle road, Hrookl) u, on April '.'3,
1915, was arrested to-night and locked
"up at central police station.
He admitted aflei several hour- iiie-
lloidng Hint he was Ham I and Hint he
robbed Hie Hr"ol.ln woman, but In de
nied having killed her. The prisonci at j
llrst denied bis ideiilll.v. He said he was J
a stcwarii on a sin . mm ui... . " '
bad made a mistake in niresllng him. j
nui me nei,. uver, e,.-,n.,.
was Hanel from desciliitlmis and photo-
graphs they had received Horn New York ;
and perslsled ill their examination.
Finally Hanel broke down and admitted ,
that he was the man wanted In New
York. I
I knew Hie day tnal Hi- ni.ii.i em-
ployed at the house was to leave,' said
Hanel, "I had arranged to tub the
place, but I did not cvpect that there
would le any necessity for murder. I
had a friend who was to rob the house.
We met and he later came to the house.
"He locked Mrs. Heilner in her room
and then ransacked the house. Mic
managed lo get out of the room and
then he killed her. We met on a corner
.nun after, but he did not tell me until
later what he had done. He bail Hie
Jewelry and we went to Philadelphia,
where we pawned It,"
In his confession Hanel named Hans
Ilampc, a waller In a New York hotel,
as Hie man who committed the murder
and robbed Mrs. Heilner.
"While I admit that 1 am Hanel I
want to say that the woman was mur
dered and robbed by Hampe," he. in
sisted. Hanel told detectives' here that he
had been living In lultliniire under
the name of Joseph H Pi ttus. Marshal
Carter to-night communicated with Hie
New Yolk police. Hanel will hit held
hen until to-morrow morning, when he
will bu turned over to a New ork de
tective. DASH TO NORTH POLE PLANNED.
Ci. nernler, (till i:ilorer. He-
lleven There ! a .Vetv lloiite.
Cant, Joseph i:. Ilernler, an Arctic
sailor of fifty yeam experience and who
has charted more, tli, in fiOti.onii miles
in the Arctic region for the Canadian
Government, started from heie for Que
bec yesterday arter purelinslng equip.
ment for another Arctic trip. He will
sail early this summer on his ISiS ton
bteamer the Oulde.
Hernler bellevia that there Is a route
to the north pole other than that Peary
took: that It can l H.ilieu suocesstuuy
and that he may try to traverse It.
"I believe that the new route leans
through the open moving loo caused by
southerly Japan currents," he said, "and
that It would snow inn neiiniie nutirinu
tlon of laud and water In the polar
regions."
japaneseIn mediterranean.
Fleet nriiorleil lo HniP ArrUed
Willi n .Viiinlier of Aircraft,
Srrcl'il Cablr Vr'P'itrh tn Tin: Sr
I.onpon, Feb. '.'2. A hewn agency dcs.
patch from Copenhagen iiuotCM an Ital
ian statement printed hi Herman news
papera to the effect that a Japanese fleet
has arrived In the Mediterranean with a
number of aircraft.
Shortly after the sliikInK of the Per
sla In the Mediterranean, on December
30, 1915, attaekH on Japanese mall
HtcaintihlpH were reported. It was then
announced that Japan would cend a
fleet to the Mediterranean.
15,000 TOO PROUD TO FIGHT.
"tonneleiitloiiii Dbjeelorn" Auk for
I'leioptloii In llnwlniiil.
UptHtl Valilt Dttpntch In Tin: Si's
liNPON, Feb. 22, It I" estimated an
ofilclally that at least 15,000 "consclen
tlnuH objectors" are applying for ex
emption from military atrvlce In Orcat
Hrltaln.
WHITMAN MAY
WITHDRAW HIS
P. S. NOMINEES
Whitney and Hervey to Re
Sacrificed to Iluild Po
litical Fences.
.
It i It V l.'vj l.'li'll'F 111' II
rlltll I l r.. I
liOVKHXOK LK ANN'S
Albany. I'eh. C2 i.lov. Whitman ii
considering the political expediency or
withdrawing frnt the state rifnat- i'ie
nominations of Travis II. Whlttity and
t'harles S, Hervey at membiis of the
New Yolk city l'ubll" Service Commis
sion.
Since i.iv. Whitman's candidate lo ,
ilelegite it large to the Chicago cone"
Hon "as left aid it .ho Itepubllcati ci
fere. a e In New . k city ! It week to
tl J ei no. 'aas be a tiukim; an inv ntor
of his tioiitlc.it ,iset and has found tin.
""" '
"I'lr to dcll.er a single delegate to !.-
rtaiidai'd or to .r..l lulu muco ,u a p.
tn.iry light next September tor the He
public. r.i nomination for (jot'nor. Ibis
Inventor) the Oownior was forced to
liial.t since he ii.M been Infortned by hi.
political filends that the anti-Whitman
Iteiiulillcans, I'd by milium Ham ., will
in .1 sni'iHi.t tile Covtrnoi for a rcuoii.
Inatlon.
Ilariies lit DoUkc III reel l-'lubt. !
( Harms would probably so maineuvre the
I situation that the liovernur would 111.. I
hluiM'lf uiiabli lo make Mr Names Ida
lil I K' l II .l!. Kll!ICU Olll lll.ll 111' Vail-
illdate of the iinti-Whltmaii ItepubllcalM
ptiiliahly would b. put forwanl by a citi
zens' committee tomposi-d of such lie
pUblltMiu as recently waited upon Stale
Coinplrnller Travis and i quested the
leal facts leg. t r ling the "lionie" bill lll
ourml on Hie (.iovernor'n I'anatna expo
sition train.
It is an open secret that (!ov. Whit
man had expected to go to Chicago as a t
Piesldeiitial candidate with tin piestlge
of having defe ited the candidacy of Will
iam P.ariics for one of the four delegates
at large, hut Ml II. inns made Mich an
l.1ie lmpoidli!e by n tiling as a candi
date on the pica of taking the Harms
tsue out of the light to precut Itoose
volt's nomination.
(iov. Whitman believer be is strong
with the Itepubllcan voter, but his po
litical advisers have told him that there
is a vast difference between the lie
publican voter and Hie Republican en.
rolled voter They have pointed out
that the close vol" III the couventloti
committee In New York whereby Hie
(ioicrnot's candidate fur delegate at
huge was defeated Indicate, that the
i !n ernor from now m, must be a leal
, . ,,u,,.,,r r0 f,ir patronage Is con-
c..rIle..j f m Is to control the enrolled
j,,,!,,,,,!!,..,,, Xl)tl,fe Septem,, r
prinuni,.,,
(1 waH i(, juetiir, in the con-
f,iences between the Covernor and Ills
i,iui,..il advisers thai lie was told b
should make every appointment of his In
,, futur,. t,.l from a political stand-
point. Although the (lovcrnor has made
many choice appointment few of them
have been of any benetlt to lilm polltl
callv. This fact Is now being keenly
realized by lilm.
liny Hold Industrial nniliirf.
The (!oertnir may determine not only
l.i withdraw Hie nominations of the two '
New York city Public Service Comniis-
sloners but of the lie Stale lnduslll.il '
i 'em miss 1 1 mers, all hanging lire In the
Senate Finance Committee, In addition ,
Hie (tovc'iioi- lias the Inline. Hale appoint
ments of warden of Hie State prisons
at Sing Sing. Ii.inncmnra, Auburn and i
(Sreat Meadow, each of whom has much
patronage to distribute. Also the (ov- .
einor must appoint a State Kxclse Com- j
nilssloner for a full term before the
Legislature adjourn.
Whether or not Hoc. Whitman Is to
tlsh or cut halt will be Indicated by bis
action regarding the Whitney and Her
ev nomination". The Senate Finance
Coiitmltlei. to-day decided to have a fe
ciet hearing next Tuesday afternoon
for Senators who have (injections to ad- I
vance to tlie continuation of either Whit- 1
ney or Hervey or the live Industrial
Commissioners. (
Tim Governor , political ft lends ad- ,
vised lilm to-day that this action of the j
Finance Committee gives the Governor
ample grounds for withdrawing one or
ill of Hie nominations and that he should
be prompt to take advantage of It before
the hearing takes place, otherwise,
they have Informed the Governor, they
cannot be responsible for what may be.
fall tit Governor when he comes up for
tenomlnatlon.
The State Finance Committee to-day
agreed to report favorably the Gov
ernor's reappointment of Frank Irvine,
formerly a professor of law at Cornell
University, as a member of the up-State
Public Service Commission and of Fred
erick A. Hlgglns of New York city an
a member of the Slate Hospital Com
mission. MAKE MUNITIONS FOR QL0RY.
llrltlNh Turn Give l.clnure, Without
Pay, tn Help Army.
.sptaal Cable Dttpnleh to Till; Sc..
IaiNIion, Feb. 28.- -The oltlcers and
men of Admiral Ucalty's battle fruitier
Meet have been voluntarily devoting
their scanty leisure time, without extra
pay. to niaklivg munitions for the army.
David Lloyd George, Minister of Mu
ultlona, has written to Admiral Hcatty
thanking the oftlrern and men and re
maikltig that the very striking output
has been it real assistance to the attny
and lidding that I in continuance would
lie most welcome,
$1,625,000,000 GERMAN PAPER.
Till Currency Inereaalnw llally
Gold llexerte, UI il.OOO.OOO,
."pedal Cable Httpitch to Tim Hns,
1.0NPON, Feb. 22. A news agency des
patch from Copenhagen says that Ger
many'H paper money In circulation to.
lain 1325,000,000 $ I, '.."!, Olin.iiiift) and
Is Increasing dally, while the gold in
ncrvo In fI22,l!00,000 (16 13,1100,000),
COMPAKTMKNT CAIW TO FLORIDA.
He.huurd Florida Mil.. tl I. M. Quiche!,
best equipped Florid train. Inq. ItltU'way.
Atv.
THREE HEW HAVEN TRAINS PILED IN WRECK;
9 KILLED, 4 PASSENGERS-75 HURT; SOME MAY DIE
it t ii i ,-r ii i
WHERE THE VICTIMS OF THE NEW HAVEN WRECK WERE KILLED.
pHOTOdKAI'll (,f the wreck'nro of the rear ear of the express embankment. All of those killed ittiil !not of the injured were in
tniin anil part of the locomotive of the special that rati into it, this ear. One of the steel Kotulola car of the freight train is on top
lyitiK on the east siile of the roadway after having rolled down the of the pusseitKcr car.
OFFICIALS IGNORANT OF CAUSE OF THE
YALE MEN JOIN IN RESCUE WORK;
IliMislei' (h'cili'i'i'il Wlierc .Mnl
(f Hcccill lllliliV('ini'iil.
Were .Minli.
().l WIM.
A I It IMjl'lltV
P.4-l'C"t Ulll.ttt. W l0 Is III i..st,,ll tO
.UH II. I the heaillit t.ef..ie tin I oillloeli
ColllllllsM'ill oil t'l . '.Ill I Ull' S case.
inailr the follow In j si. item, at I He last
night :
Tin maii.tg- "-lit and Hn men are
greatly ti.-ttc.s. 1 .il I'"' sad i. . idem
which i.clllie.l ne.f .M.lf.ild. t'lilili. fii"
liHiinlng al'iuit II ii clock No statement
can In made at till- linn as lo the canst.
Kvery facility will l. given I" the lepi,
seiitatives of tlie r.iiiilii.'i. e I'niiiinlssioii
and the fonin client Cominlsslon to ob
tain the exact facts.
"Tl lilellt oi'CUIIe.l ell II p.llt lif
the load while no expense lias beta
spared to pel left Hi' pll.Vsll.lt fai'llitl' s.
Tlie shops of ill" coinp.niv have l'ii
running on ko.iiI iiiik lot iinmtlis and lo
cotniitlvcs and ias-eiiget ,siiiiiiieiit have
been In pt In go... ordei I In vuIiimi, ol
Inislmss 1 1 tit t the ciiinpan.v has I u lin
ing slut i . pleinbcr last has been far
greater than ev,i befoie in its lilstorj
and lh f.ic.tltlts of tlie toad have b' t II
Vfl) seVelelv taxed.
"(Ulcers and nieii have lie, tt under i
great stialn in trying to give civlce, cs-
lecl,lll -Itl.e the llllllMlll slot Ills of
Hecenitier, and with the gic.it congestion
of flelgllt silici Hull. Cver.v ell.Ht has
bteit made to encourage olllx is and iu n
to tlo their very l si with the dttllcult
conditions now e.xlstiiii; In the hop" tint
accidents would I iitlielv avoided
Kxiendltures for cate "I the mid, -afelv
and Hie lltovetlli lit of tile gl'e.tl Volume
of bti-lhcK- as shown by tlie pieliiiini n v
tigtlies tor .lttiiu.it In. lie. He that uiili
an inciease in gloss eainltius of about
ll.2.'iii,oiiii, Hn ie was an increase in x
peitses ol nearly t:iiiii.iiini, which, with
lieavlly increased cltaiges for liilglil cai
hire, till" to tlm I'OiiKt'sli'Ui, I. .IV'., a
small margin out of this gnat increase
to represent the Use of the pnp,rt.
"That tlieie lias been a loss of life
of piissengiis and men Is to be deeplj
ilepl'iicil, and tlie syininthy of the inin
agenienl is with Hie families and friends
of thofc who have sulterctl."
ST A TE BEGINS "INQUIRY.
Iaf iiHf ri. "..' Local Who iectl
Inu lleb I nil lite 1'iprooi.
Nkvv ll.vvuv. t'linn., Feb. 22. C C.
Iilwcll. a memln.i of i In Cnnnectliut
Public I'tillties Commission, began an
Investigation of Hie airlil.nl to-ulgbt.
His was the onl llillly of Hie eve
lillig, as I'oroii't' .Mix was ntteiiilliig a
gatliering of Yale alumni la Melnoiial
Hall.
Mr dwell said that lie was sitilldeitt
of llnillng out th'" cause anil whose vat
Hie responsibility, despite the fact Hint
the engineer, the llreinan nnd lite ring-mail-
the. persona most Intimately con
nected with tlie collision were killed.
Present at Hie lnitiliy weie J, S, Haw
ley, an Inspector of the Intel statn Com.
nii ri e Cnmmltsloii ; Chief Ihtglnecr John
Trumbull f the I'tillties Commission,
and ticiiiriil Manager c L. It.nc.i, Gen
eral Silperlnlendenl ,1 A. I Moege anil V,
II, Foster, stiperlnti ndent of the New
York division of the New Jlaveu.
"Wo waul lo get at tertaln facts
while they tile fresh In Hie mind," ex
plained Commissioner Klvvcll to his an
dltots. "I don't think it would he fair
to say wlhtit.l think was th cause of
Hie accident, but I fed Hint II will not
b.. dltllcult to determine It. So far as
development-! how the boil) of tlm llnu
inan of the expi'i'Hs was found l.slde
the track about lino feet from the rear
end of the express train. He must
Jiave tieen klllctl by No. .I, Hie Incal
that came up from behind. The tlagntau
was supiwsed to go back furli'ifi than
(Ron feet,
"The Hlgnnlc ne I observed them
ahen I (tot there, were all right. Of
course one of the objects of this Invent).
Ration, which Ih only preliminary, is to
find out If the signal were In unfiling
order at tne time or tne accmeui
Wa
d "i.i kttow The three .inpi..'Unt wit- I
l.es-es l,,n,. l.een killed."
t c Mi (iord. ,'mitlt, t member of the ,
lutttstate Commerce Commission ami
the one who hai Jurisdiction over New '
Ibiulainl, may cot tie here to-night to
take a hand in the Inuuiry. Cotoner
Mix will liegln his lii'iulry Monday, It is
- iiniler.io.1,1
Mintvois of the .iccdent who were
''";
Seeliml
lieie n.-'eeil thai the local
to lie running -villi t.nlv one
bought In the tnltnls of it handlers,
ii.'fii'lv. to get over the rails as fast n
pos.sib!e that It left New llavin :ilin...-t
tnilltedi. Itelv after the express iliil. lb'
whlsilinu of lite ,xiies.s tram -till rug-
In- In tl irs of tin p,isng,tH of the
local as t 1 1 t 1 1 1 -I out of the station
It "a- slid bv the sin v tvots tlt.it even
l toe "siaii.il- ha. umlii'.l the local was
r ivell in- ret that -Ignals would
ll.IV. IlleatH Pttle. even If tile . Jlglticl r
I'ii. I dot, lit- best And, ftiftlnr, that
th local wtts miming sM close t 1 1 1 1 i . t
lite xire..s dial the 11,'lglll.lil of the
express hinl milv time lo go back a
iki'I d statue lii Ills attempt to hold
up the local befoie tin pursuing ti tin
wan upon biin. evldutce of which lies
in Ih" fact Hint he was killed
Shortly after the accident a wreck
itu Ira'n left this city fin M,lfor.. This
wit- tollnw.il bv .v spc. lai train tilled
with iln.'tois. A see, md iiecial train fol
lowed, c.'tii.v lug about forty mote pb
Icliitis ami jturn. All or Hie Injurril
whi were ma e.ue, for at .Mllford or
re'itoved
here
to llrnlgeport vvete brought
YALE MEN AS RESCUERS.
Iltien In Wreck, lull Only One
"ertoiislj Hurl,
doen Yale giaduales and under
graduates were In the next to the last
OFFICIAL LIST
AND INJURED IN WRECK
The following Is Hie
the dead and injured,
fottiplete list 'of
revised up to t)
o'clm I. last night .
Klllctl.
Al.l.CN I'.KOKCi: i. liriiton. r'ntin ; tllsd
In New Haven tien.. rat Ilnsiittnl,
I'oNMHtS, I'ATIlll'K, New Vork , dinl at
I M
K'l'ltTIS, V It. riiKineer nf train Nn S.
M'HV .1. I'liMiiian porter, ttitlti Nn. ffl.
IIYI.A.r. .Ml.-- HPSAN II.. 13.1 Haven-
i ir: itvenii.'. Ni iv ll.iveti
llilVIIAS'S'HSIAN M Altlll'.ltnS. sU..ii-.l
tl. l-e .Vriliellttll n arl ileitler.
vti tilss'l.. II I. . ilrein iii
1 TiHItTIII.I.iiTTi:, il. I... n.iKiii.in, train
S'ti T't
CNIIHtNTII'llHi TltVINMVN. tiroli.tl.l)
I're.l VV't mer id Train Ne. ;.
Injiireil,
I lU'UKl.t.Y. f II. I'ttlltii.in pnrier. New
I v .irk Inteiim". Inliire.l
' III. K K. Mil K ! . Pill. till IN. MISS
: ri.i..iii;iii. miis- iiiiukiv, nil ..r
i il.iiif.'iil, I'liiin. Hunei lug fintii cutN ituii
lriitfs
j ItllVi;, MAItY, "i ye.HB olil. f.ue am) lir.nl
fill
lllt.VY W T. ciiil.luctnr nt It tin No T'l;
! (a I'ttieiMiii.l itviiii'.. Siirliiifii-til, Vtus.
I tlp ISN'AN', WILLIAM K.. x I'nbiny
stleit WillllllKfiiril. tVilltl . lestli In limsr
I liiv liinseiii'd and lii.s.. liriii-.-.l
I'LAitKi:. Mits. iiimitiii: il, srw
ItiHlnll. N.
t'li.MPTnN, Al.iri',, New Haven, itrtti badly
liritl-eil
fill, I, INS, Milt THANK. I'lsasanl slretl
Ansiillla. t 'nun . Help wniinil, llnlex llllgt-r
of left hand III lurid,
CllNNIII.I.V, MISS ANNA, llulynke, Mass.,
cuts
r(ili.Fi:U -MISS MINN IH, Sprliintield,
M ISS
CiiltSii. MI1S .MA Itr. 51 IVrrls sliest,
New I In x .-ii.
I'OltSn. Itcsll. tS Kent, slrept. Nr
II.. . II
IMl.S'HVA.S, MU.-'. I'.VANiil'.l.tS'i:, 3. mid
hsr sister, slinek and pnsM Int.rnal
in hirles.
rr.NTos. miss M.win.utiyr. w Pre-
Ion avenue. New Vnrk; I. .1.1 scalti wound
PIHIII.lt. II A It II Y, 7f I'mryHi "treet. New
rnrk a-'ii Inliireil,
i'OUli, HUN' H lit tint I! II. New llavetii
cllls mid severe lirulites
roltti. MINNIIl, New Haven, New Haven
snip!. iv t ..
(lltr.l.l.HV. lil.N IlliWIN C . New lliiviii
ti.iillv It ills.il atiitllt tht uli.liitlleii and
iii,.'llto. "tl fin III ernnl llllllllls. (An.
,111,. ii crltliiil
(lltirriNH, MltS., 1K.I Ch.ite utrstl, New
Haven,
rlOKT,, l.iil'IS, TUT Savin avenue, Vet
lliivrn, I'liiin 1 fttce cut,
(1HKTZ. MltS. 11VA, "!" fnvln avenue, West
lliivent fsee tltld hesd cut.
(JUOI'I'niON, MltS. T VON NR. 15, 7J nrd-
car of the xpnss Haiti, No 7'.'. and
plaj .il a pti'iuiiietit ..i i . it - u ng
the injured and in mjk.ns thcniselv .
getitril.y useful Only one of them,
Morgan .1, o'ltrlcn, ,ir. son of ex
Jn.tge o'ltrlcn of th Supreme Cotnt.
was injured seriously, tin otheis es
caping with slight bruises and a bad
sinking up
Mr. o'ltrlcn was sitting with John It.
Kllplltl.. k. a IIH'Mlber "f !!"' tieW V lie
football comm.ltee and .1 famous f..ot.
ball end In bl mil. ge days. lo. 1. n
Corey of a fonn.-i t'tcsi'l'-nl " th"
I'ii toil Slates St,.! Corporation, t t'sn
bai: plijer and , aiialn of lb" I'M I
baseball ti.rn, nnd i. lVrtl .lolnisoii,
also a ftiothall (ilayer.
In another i,m of the ..ti t'b 'ii' tit
til". Vale 'II, a tortni r varsitv base
ball pit. her. and Hugh llarhl-on, N ale
II. former foothall lack!. i' lojetber.
Ills, while ten Yale telilil- ilay,is. I'd
bv It S. Sto.hi.itil. fiipt.iiu ol th ti
nts team, were sitting. They welt ,..m
ing to New York to meet Hi S.v.nto
it. gl'iieiit tennis ii'im in tin. i- ntti. an-
t il. il match. Th itch was po-lpom-d
tor .in Indefinite time
Mr oHr,cns lie.i.l was II. .own mo
i ntlv back agaln-t Ins - lit and a I l
gash was made Tin I'l I tlowtsl mio-
fusely, but be lioiunl th" wound up wlti.
a handkeicblef and with Hie lest it
the Vale men tumbled "ill of Hte i.ti
to sc.- vvlmre Inlp iiiiild In Rivii
Tltev all ngre.it on reai lilm; New York
that then bad not 1 much "I a
panic, but there vveic a lot of vv.ant tt,
wmie of them with children, who w.ie
on the very of hvslenc- ami had to I...
lieltei from the c.lls Core) and IC.I
palrlck went Into tin i'ar car of the
express trail! and witi tin Inlp of
John-on brought out i ib.xen l r-unx
ami carried them to the linsplinl cats
Mr o'ltrlcn said last night Ilia' 'ifter
he and hs thiee friends. Kilpurl, k.
OF THE DEAD
f.ir.t -ir... i -'in niitit I Mi- -Ii .. k and
l.ri.-l .'. 'n't rn iii or les
ll.Vt Kl. I'T. JOSHI'll '' VI rl l. n Cum
Intiirle.. in In l.l. ..'.itel nn mil ex
tiei te.l l.l r. , .'1 er
iir.Nnnit'K.-'i:.s. Mits c i:. n. iiiven,
t'otin , etits and !.' ul-i
llLS.-liALi:. .1 II . II, irlli.nl
ICAPTZ, t'llAltLLS tin man nf tlnn No.
"It, scalp wound and citl lift sl.Je nf f.ire-
lisad
KlINNIHlV. JOHN, endnerr nf I rain Nn
7i'. sllnlit si.itp winitiil and kit P g
tirul-'i'.l
KKISIITT. J . l'i W'llllllev Itvenili', Nvv
list en
KNitVV LIN. Mil- V W II tltf.ir.l
I.INNIIIIAS'. Xll.-S IIIIsSII'., .in, IT'. Smith
strst-l. t'ltlrii!". e. Via-- ml. nil! Ililurlc.
LYNCH .lnllN ii.iKH.iuem in. train No T'i;
no... cut . tt, I sl.i. britl-ei!
masi'I'.iis'iis. mi.-.- i:i,i.aiii:tii. .v.i-ui-
.illil. ton. VI ,s slmlit
MAT'iiiiivv.-'. vi.i: xMip.it. i;:i itrtmi
avium. New Haven, fa,, . i,'
MM'I'lltl l.lllnllTI. It. '.''. Ilntinl nve
lute N w il.ivttl I. it ei alt. nt- on lotlit
. h.ek
McNAM.MtA, 1'ltAN'lv "1 ilri.v, sitrst n-
till l.l Cltltl . Iinitv liriilseil
MI ltl'IIY .1 1 . Iliirlfiir.l. i-inin
MIVLY ALI'M!. Siulnglield. lli
NI'.HSAS'. WILLIAM. XT llivsn slrssl.
Sew Haven, lurk itililre.l
ivililttl.. .in mu . .1. .Ill, .Mil iiiik,
tuts nn! lirulsis
I'HLI.AV, M. A lii Ashley stterl. Iln, tun;
bark ittl.l bin llibirci!
PPH. JIlllV. ('11 St.lti slteel, V,w llavsill
left limn! tilt, tin-,t bi ul. ...I uei bu. 1.
siniilm .1
ItATINLflL MltS.. I"' Kilrv an title. Th"
llnnix. N V
HAINAI'll AltTHI'll ,1. IS, Ciiuvn stisel.
Merliletl, sllltlit si ii wound
Uiii'KWHI.L. lll'HII. s: ire. t. Ilrls-
till, Citttt . liiieriitinlls ."i l..o U an.! slmul.
dir. f Ii e and be.nl t HI
Sl'HAI'I'A, II A It It V. 10'J .liittie. sire. I. V.ov
Haven l.iidlv- hiirneit uu f.i unit t.n.tv
si'iici'iinii. i'HAiti.i:s vv j; "ii t,.i,
Kress HVt'llll". Neiv II.'IV.II. bruise- oil
li.i.lV lilt. I fill e
St'HWAItTZ. MINS'lll. If. NI. Ili.N sir. el
New Haven, heinl ali.t la.'e l.iitne.l
SUA MAN HIILMI'T, Tlmtifiird. Cuiii , no.c
tir.iketi
SIILKHIIII, I'.. M. ml. Ire., nut kncvin.
face, tiedd lllld li.nly I'll
SlIOItT ANNA Nov Haven. r'itli.m e
WAHNIMl. MAItll Mtr.T. Mllf.it. I.
ZKlSSr.TT JAl'dll, I'.H, ir.i! Mh.lt, y in.
line, New Hiiven. tfnn . l.i. "i .it i.. iu uu
tlt'ltd ami pus ll.le bniken 11 p.
ill Hie foregoing list Hi.. Injur., .,,
soiuo of tlie passeil'telS III" Hot specl
tled. This Is li.'i'aii.e the hospital .m
geona tenilereil Hist aid op's 'n ilnst
rases ami had inn yci made cxitm. na
tion thnroiiKhly Hulllvleat to divide the
extent of Injuria
I,.
WRECK;
ONE INJURED
.Mormiii .1. O'liiit'ii. Jr.. Only
Out1 of ii Dozen Injured nt
All Soriouslt.
NOT MICH OF A PANIC
Cote) a il .liitiiisoti, had .lone all they
mild 'iiev liallerl a tanner wlm bad a'
-IctKll and vvete ilrlveti to Mllforii There!
Hoy Iiioketl around tor a physician, but
mild not tlnil one, so they ib elded to I
take a tiollev i.ir for llrldgeioit The
ride to Itrnlgepiirt la-tetl an hour ami i
by lite Htiie they arrlvnl Mr. ollrlenl
was I n.ltiK fnlnl. A physician wasj
toiinil and live stltilics wtte taken In,
Mr o'llileti's -calp I
"It wa-a mighty good Ihlng," said Mr '
tilt len la-t night, "thai those cars'
vvete tti.ide of sltel If they had not I
I n Hi, slatiKhti r would have been
filgliitul As t was theie was not a
person In out car who wa- not hurt.
Tin s, ais were Jerked from their fasten- ,
lug- ami burled this way and that. wh'Ie
lite pas.-. .tigers were throw u about ;
Kvely window In the car was shatteied
and II was because of tin Hying glass'
Hint so many pi rsotts recelwd f.ue.
wounds I
"Just l.efote tltt Jolt a porter passed
through our car to tin rear car. When
I -teppcit to the giotihil a few in nutes
I tie I tin poor fellow was lying tle.nl a
feu f, ,-t awnv We .1 i.l our best to help'
tbo-e wlm ti led It, but for that matter I
every I'odv did the Sam,), There was
son., . m, fusion, hut not a- mtnh as!
tntut.' have In en expected. I save sonie
einplove. - miming around with axe in1
ilicr bands. ht( they could llnd ti i list
to tun them to "
"We wti sitting In the Pullman play
ing bridge." sal,) Al'.lll C.nev ll. Ills
.ipai.li. i' at ,",!i I'aik avenue, "when'
the . r.i-ii cuni ( I ilriett was Vltt.ng
ti. window nnd I w i- on l'i" aisle.
Z:irr:
in fa I us Thn '
tile and then the
other tia'n sld' svv ipe.I lis
"I ' I It' nf four gills sutlni; , rnss the
ii'-;.' front ti- .1 , si 1 1 1 ,,,) .,n nr. in the i
air and went out tlnoiigli Ih window
while O'ltrlcn wa- and a pi of the I
glass cut his load. She landed In I i
hank of -n. .u ami skidded, but got up '
and vvilk.d away nppatentlv unhurt.,
I i.il 'ter came another one of the '
girls, Inn Johnson grabbed In r by the
waist and held her In the car When
tin car -"Hied we found Kilpatriclt .
Jammed 111 Hie t lotlies closet. I was
heinleil f .1 tl. bill In beat tne to It. !
"oiii of the train en vv stuck his
, Ii-iiiI n the broken window and told
us i.i . I. tub nut, but we wen afraid I
tin tar would fall on ll- until be slid I
It was tiiinlv braced against a post, j
Wo Inlped several women tlnoiigli tin
window, lie ildlug one woman with sev- I
i.il i lill.lf. ti, ami then we all t raw led
I nut after lowering the suitcases and
1 coals out first.
".Inlinsoii i nm lcl bin k Into t'.n ear
to see if we ll id left tt II X. thing. We
waited fot htm on the outside. When
i he il d not reappear, some one called
1 llifoiigli i he broken window, 'What's
'keeping von" and In an-wcied, 'I can't
find bul tlfly-nne cards. Tin ace of
' diamond I" mlf-lng.'
"We bad been up to New Haven for
, a huh n union of tin class of l'.i."
' Clfiiicul was picity well covered
with blood when he walked Into tlm
C.iand Central Terminal Most of t
hail ciuim from bleeding passengers
whom he had carried out of tlm rear
car lie displayed a $lft b 11 with con
! siderable gl md explained that a
' 11.1 tin agent had settled with lilm for
thai iiinount on the way to New Yoik.
ll.iililson. wlio also was splatternl with
blood, hud a 2 bill from the same
unirce
U. S. AMBASSADOR INJURED.
fieriird llrenkw II l Collarbone
While l.llim Near xltiiilfli,
laiMioN. Feb James W ilerard,
Aniliassailnr to t ierin.uiy , lifokc In- col
lirliiiiii yesterday m u skiing accident
near .Munich, iccni'illng in a despatch to
the llM'liange Teb graph Company.
The Injuries are not sellout,
Express Stops Local He
I liiud Strikes It Freiylil
Adds lo Disaster
r.Alt.S TOSSED DOWN
FIFTV FOOT SLOPE
No Fire Alter Suiasli
I Sealdinjr Steam Pours
From Itoiler.
FAITHFUL FLAtlMAN
Dills LIKE A 1IE1.0
Wiivi'.N His I'laji' to Slop On
HHiiiiiir Trains Until
He Is Crushed.
HnllsiKPimT, Conn . I' An ex-
inesi ttnln bound for Now York on
the New York. New Haven and Hnrt
ioril Kill, r.inl which w.ih about twen
ty -live minutes bile li.nl stopped for a
minute or mine about nine miles east
of here late this forenoon iH'catme an
alt- brake tube had broken, when a
local train for New ork, alo from
twenty minutes to half an hour lute
ami I'otimilng along m a high late ct
speed to make up lost time, swept
around a curve Just back of the stalled
express and smashed into it
An Instant later a lrelglit train, also
hound westward hut on the second or
inner westbound track, struck the
buckled wreckage bulging from thn
outside westbound track, The result
was a ripping and tearing and tojilnT
of engine Ixillers. steel coaches, wooden
freight cars, deaths, scaldlnga and
broken boilles. that left a tangled masn
of wreckage on both side., of tlie four
traek.s that was next to unbelievable.
Nino deatha have resulted at this
writing and more of the seventy. live
who were Injured ale expected to die.
AlllMle.l It x I'nngleil XIm.s,
lla.llti.iil oMcmIm nf lung ex pi ru nee,
newspaper men who had seen many
bad wrecks and liu-pnal Miigeon.
irom tlu.s giner.il n.-iv; ltl.i hum tn
wliiuii mill ...ni wrecks ,ue not alio
gt'lher ,i novelty ogtii ,1 vvlnn Uiev
h.nl hurrlvd to the s. en, m.u :,ij
iney ll.nl loolt.., upon Hie hopt .cssly
t.mgle.l mass nf silliili.'.'.l stui anj
tt I they would imt have Inlmved
such havoc possitil, ,, ,, s.nglt sin.i-h-
U1!'.
The t'Xjiri-s that was stiml,. I.tiovvi!
as Nn. T'.', or the ( '.nun . t,. at itiv i
Special, dtp. ,,t tl,,, Cr.in.i Ciutral
Ti imni.il.il I.'::'.; f. .-oiild scarcely
have m lotted , ni,,t.. .Iis.isti mi- sp.n
tor tulles at which to enme to ,t ,-iap
to in.ilie leiM.rs. A Ingli b.uil; sioji,.
down I'm fifty le.t or tin. re directly
from tin edge nt tin. out-nlo wea'
biiutiil Hack upon win,. i it was maud
lug. And almost str.ilglit dm n fur
llfty feet Is .iiiother haul, from tin-
(llgc- HI til" slecptls of thu oUt.-ill'.
lasiboiiiiil tta. k.
So gnat wa- ih,. impact of the h.tjh
speeding local against the tear of tlm
express, t Iliiwct ,y Hie l.luvv dc ! cre.l
by the lointntitlvi. nt' tbn Height train,
that wreckage vva- sent rolling not
mily down tli" batik upon tlie edgo
of which the ixptess ,,,, iMn,j ),,n u
steel eoaclt ami the entire butler and
nth. r part- of the in. .il train's locom.
tive wi n lipped tioui tlie trucks and
Hung across tlm sidevv ping ft eight
train. Then engine boiler, steel cnae.!i
nnd two -teel fn.il cars of tlm freight
train that left tin wcsti,oiin, triKi;
and lulled .icross the two tr.uk.- ti
the left ilinppftl end over i mi down
the eastboitlitl cmbanklllelit
No I'lre lflir Wreck,
Althnugli two of the day coaches on
the rammed cpress were of wood and
at b ast ,i pill t of the the coaches on
the local vteie of wood there wan no
tire. Hut Inasmuch an the boiler of
the bicniiiiitn e of tiie local train after
being tossed across three tracks hud
ciiiiii' to rest fur down in a ravine wih
the rear steel car of the express lop.
pling over on top of It some of tin,
passenger- in tlm -teel eoach we-o
i I tl. . 1 by
! tlm crump
the steam escaping fnnn
il tip boiler.
Of tlin ii ln. who so far a..! .lend
f.ittr were passengers one woman
and t'ti i't men. These vvcro In t-..
rear i n n il nf tlin cxpio-s. The llva
mliers dead vvete railroad employee-,
four trainmen nml a pm tot-To-night
mine than a score i f Cm
injuted nr. being cared fm in thn
lintel Str.ittlchl belt'. Tin wound -.1
.it the lintel include lien. '.. S lire. Ic
ot New llicen, xn years nl., an , -cnminatiili
1 of the Sons of tlie Aiip-p.
can Itevnlilllo'l len. Ilreelev nnd a
number of other prominent tin nu.ei'-i
of tip' Suns of the American li"Vni.
tmti and S. iis of Veterans were soatnil
in tlm lni.il mi their way to ,i tuiild.iv
ibniii'i' nf the llrhlgepiirt Sims of
Veteran" al the Slr.llllelil. Hen
tlreeley " MllTeillig from serlntt.
sltoi'l; and from hi'iii-.-- and nlii.iMnin,
as lie was thrown violently tn thn
Hour of hi- ear.
Mining he passengers able to aM; In.
light to leporteis were seveial vlln
said thai the express h.nl li .r.llv coin,, to
a stop- -"had stopped onlv abi.tn a min
ute." as thev pin it .vlien the local,
coinln- ii oimd the citve Jus' b'iek of
Hie stalled expies at hlgli speed, tn
Judue f.om the frightful damage, tn
rolling slock, crashed luin the train.
rteBldes the long list of injured nt th
(
