'''iIiiT-Wiii
'i
WEATHER
Arizona Fair
MARKETS
NEW YORK CITY
Average price of cop
per for week ending
Feb. 1& 26.80.
MEMBER ASSOCIATED PHEE8
VOL. 18, NO. 231.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, WEDNESDAY MORNING, FEBRUARY 23, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
y . V
f
t
r
4
X
t
J .
:
i
'
- !
J
SI
r
.1
)
i
7
III POLICY
of a s. is
10 OUTDO
GERMANY
Under the General Board's
Plan of 1903 the Outdistanc
ing of German's Hopes was
Ultimate Object
ADMIRAL BADGER TELLS
SENATE COMMITTEE
New Plans Contemplate the;
Erection of a Fleet of War
Vessels that Would Approx
imate Largest Armada
WASHINGTON, Feb. 22. The ob
ject of the building policy, formulated
in HK'3 by the navy general board, was
to Keep the United Stales ahead of
Ccrmany in the race for naval suprem
acy, it was disclosed before the House
Naval Committee by Rear Admiral
Badger, member of the general board,
who explained the policy had contem
plated a fleet of forty-eight first line
battleships by 1919 o accomplish that
purpose. The statement did not get
Into the records. Badger did not am
plify it to show why the board thought 1
the course necessary. J
Badger was replying to a suggestion !
that the object of the old policy, aban
doned this year by the board for the
frst time, was to keen the American
navy in second place. While that ef-; Fred A. M. Kinney's Directory
feet it had. Badger said, the real ob- j About Completed. All Can-
ject was to keep ahead of Germany.' vassini? IS Finishing 16
This year the board fixed its policy as . - S
the creation by 1925 of a fleet equal ! Cent Gain.
to the most powerful aflaat at that I -
tj,lle j The canvass for the second edition
The committee didn't go into the (of the Bisbee-Warren District directo-
board's reasons for changing its policy j ry has been coxpleted and the copy
beyond eliciting the explanation that j is now in the hands of tne prillters.
the board believed a fleet ten per cent . .....
. .,. , . The directory is compiled and pub-
superior to any fighting force that j
might be brought against it to be ne-jl'-'hed by Fred A. McKisney, who corr.
cossary to insure against the invasion piled the directory two years ago. Ev
of American soil by an enemy. erv house ln ,ne district has been visit-
Under questioning by Representa
tive Kelley. B.-.dger said, the construc
tion of tlirpe additional dreadnaughts
and eight battle cruisers would place
ships of the German fleet today.
THIRTY MISSING.
BERLIN, Feb. 22. Salzberg reports
say thirty are missing as a result of
the avalanche in the Hoehkoenig re-'
gion. -No additions Meatus are re
ported. The slide occurred in a sea
son when such movements aer unu
sual. Workingmen, clearing roads
for the winter snorts, had been ioined
by tourists when the avalanche des-itown- Don Lula and Warren. The fig
cen.led. One hundred Russia nprison-i ures for ,he Aitte districts are giv-
ers of war
work.
ar assisting in rescue
BUTCHERS MAY STRIKE.
SIOUX CITY, Feb. 22. Three hun-lWarr,n I3
dred employees of the Cudahy andjSouth R'hee 62S
Armour plants held a mass meeting1 ',u'8 ' 01
to discuss plans to extend the strike jTintown 815
to the butchers in Armour's and all ! Bakerville and Cochise 704
departments of both concerns. The Bisbee 13,579
butchers struck this morning, demand-'
ing a graduate scale running up to; .Total 22,744
thirty cents per hour. They agreed! Since the directory canvass was be
to picket the plants to induce all the;un ,ast fa'l four hundred and seventy
employes to cease work. :hree families have moved from one
jhouse to another in the district, about
SHE FOUNDS HUSBAND. 'seven hundred people have lert the
, (district and between fifteen and six-
TROYES, France, Feb 22. Madame tpn hundred people have located here.
Georges Abraham, having no news of showing a net gain in population sincq
her soldier husband since his disap-, October of almost nine hundred,
pearance during the attack upon Nam-1 The population two years ago this
etz on October 2. wrote two hundred winter when the last directory was
letters of inquiry to commanders of, compiled was approximately 19,600,
German camps. She received fifty showing a gain of sixteen per cent,
negative replies. Yesterday she re-i Under MrKinney's supervision the
ceived a letter through the Geneva eily directory of Douglas was compe
lled Cross from Sonneidemuhl, Prus-.ed last summer. The population of
sia, saying, "your husband is here in . Douglas was found to be 14.600, not in
good health and working in camp." i eluding the soldiers in Camp Douglas.
REYES DRIVEN NORTH
TORREON. Feb. 22. Reports from
the Tlahulilo district indicated the
forces of General Canuto Reyes went
being driven north after encounters at
Sierra del Gallo and later at Mesa San
Juan in northwestern Durango, on the
edge of the desert. A messenger of
General Ramos reported the rebel gen
eral Ortpga, said to have b-en wound
ed at Tlahulilo, had died later. Ra
mos requested ammunition. A cominu
r.ication from Jiir.inei! reports a skirm
ish with a band of n bels w est of Ce-ballos.
FOR PREPAREDNESS
AFTER ALL, HE SAYS
R. L. Henry.
Congressman Henry of Texas pave
President Wilson a pleasant surprise
by announcing a few days ago that
he was strongly in favor of the ad
ministration preparedness plan.
Everybody had supposed that Henry
was in opposition. A Texas paper
recently made a poll of the state and
found preparedness popular there.
Henry has announced his intention of
running for the senate.
22,744 PEOPLE
IN ill,
T
led by the directory canvassers (soma
of them morf than once) and when the
j names were taken for the directory a
careful and accurate census was taken
of everyone, men women and children.
MrKinney has finished the compila
tion of the census figures and finds
the total population of the district to
be 22.744. The city of Bisbee has 13,
579 and the suburbs 9165. ' Almost ex-
iactly sixty per cent of the population
of the district lives inside the city
I limits of Bisbee and forty per cent In
Lowell. Upper Lowell, Winwood Addi-
tion, Johnson Addition, Jiggerville,
; Bakerville, Cochise, South Bisbee, Tin-
en below.
Lowell, including Johnson Addition,
Upper Lowell, Jiggerville, Winwood
Addition, Germantown and Naco Road
east of the city limits 51S5
CONFERENCE IS CONCLUDED
! ATHENS, Feb. 22. General Sarrail,
the French commander in the Balkans,
who had an audience with King Con
jstantine after which the King said
(much was done to clarify the differenc
es between Greece and the Allies, like
wise pleased at the result of his visit.
: Sarrail said the "conversation will b
most useful n the relations between
ithe Allies and Greece. The King is a
soldier and quick to understand our
problems. He has a cordial attitude"
toward them."
DiSTRIC
! inn
OF FLETCHER
Senate Committee on Foreign
Relations will, Today, Con
sider the Confirmation of Am
bassador to Mexico.
! REPUBLICANS LIKELY TO
WITHDRAW FIGHT
j Consul General Rogers, at Ha
j vana, Hss Been Named to;
j Represent the United States :
i with Carranza in Interim, i
WASHINGTON, Feb. 22. The Sen
ate Foreign Relations Committee will j
to.rorrow consider the nomination of j
Henry Prat her Fletcher as Mexican j
ambassador. The Administration sen-!
ators think the report recommending
his confirmation will be voted. Al
though the Republicans on the commit
tee are not satisfied with the Presi-
'dent's report on the circumstances;
leading to the recognition of Carran-;
jza, several believe it unwise to longer1
'delay sending a diplomatic represen- j
tativa to Mexico to care for American !
interests. !
ROGERS NAMED
WASHINGTON, Feb. 22. James
Linn Rodgers, consul general at Ha
vana, was seiecrea to act as special
iren nf th ito ncnartmi -.
senting the United States for ihe Car-'
ranza de facto government, pending j
the confirmation In the Senate of the;
non ination of Henry Prather Fletcher
as ambassador. " ;
It is understood consul Silliman.
nci.i.ift n- Sliruji ajitrui anu u n veiling.
v . .! i.n.e s.n. e
the overthrow of jruerta. wiil be trans'
.Mi.iirc.ra.ir.i vrunu.i Ifl.li'.l .
The Senate Foreign Relations Com
mittee meets tomorrow
Fletcher's nomination.
to consider
. : I . . l. . . i r i . . '
ljuh is ,,lal 1P nt-puuuean n:emoers.
while still dissatisfied with the Presi-
dent's explanation of the recognition
of Carranza will not continue oppos-1
ing the confirmation.
Rogers is regarded by the Siate De- j
partment as peculiarly well fitted to :
handle the troublesome questions con-!
i ; . . ,
stan.ly arising in the governments re-
lations with Mexico.
EIGHT DIE WHEN
j Wreck on New Haven Near
Milford, Conn., Cost Eight
Their Lives and Injured, 50
More.
MILFORD, Conn., Feb. 22. Disre-
Igard of cautionary signals was prob
ably responsible for the rear end col-'
lision on the New Haven Railroad near j
here, in which eight persons lost their j
lives and fully fifty were injured. A !
state investigation is under way ,but
as four railroad employes, the most im
nortant witnesses, are dead, it will be
difficult to fix the responsibility.
Both trains weje filled with passen
gers. Many Yale graduates were re
turning to New York after Alumni
Dnv ui New Haven. A freight train !
passing another trark sidewiped the
i wreck and all were piled in a heap.
jThe boiler of one of the locomotives
exploded.
Word from Bridgeport is that Gener
al E. S. Creeley. of New Haven, bri
gade commander In the Civil War. is
dying of injuries.
STRIKE IN WEST INDIES.
NEW YORK, Feb. 22. The strike
and lockout of agricultural laborers,
most of whom aer natives, paralyzed
the sugar industry on the island of
St. Croix, Danish West Indies, accord
ing to passengers arriving on the
steamship Parima. The strike as
sumed such proportions that Danish
officials and
violance, (he
white residents fear .declared for a inference or neutral Kor instance it is stipulated tne pay
nassengers declared, nations with tlr- purpose of promoting : ments for Belgian exports are to be
Armed guards patrol the streets ol
... . . ... ...
lha ailia, inrt , .11, 11 u 1 T T! 1U o wirn
,!,:.',, lanrtpri from Danish
rmisnr pannnn wprp niacerf to
sweep all approaches to the govern-
ment buildings and banks. '
NORWAY'S GREATEST FP lfiy:s !?UIX
:: t : ' -
' . . . T
wit
Bereen, Norway's ereatest
Thousands of people were made homeless and but for the speedy relief expeditions sent there by the Norwegian
government, maiiy would have perished from hunger and lark of shelter. The damage has been estimated at
over $20,000,000. . . ..
GROT
SII96 UP
. , . .
i AiQermanic Investigation Is'
Ordered While Mayor Has
Also Indicated He will Look
Acr:
GRAFT CHARGES
The charges
lflat jjrg paS(
Waller "teuton paid
part of ,er , hpr guperior.
0iib(.lr Kowe. head of
I , u nlfir. I.lion ctirraH tlio
political circles The allegation that;
I the monev was to go to Mrs.
i Mavor Tnompso.n. centered the aiten
r ,,- ..i,.i wlu
family.
Mrs. Eaton asserted she was sub
jected to dictation by Fred Lundiii,! WASHINGTON, Feb. 22. David R.
former congressman, campaign assist-; FrancjS- Secretary o fthe Interior in
ant and political adviser of Thompson. : Cleveland's cabinet, and former gover
An investigation of the charges will; , o u . .
ht w,n j.!(inv it a nnnnncel bv
. . - ....
Alderman Lynch. The mayor prom -
I i i 1 .... i. I. ...,;..
isru ttii uiuipt:uiit-iii uivrpuauuii.
Uotli Jlrs. liaton ana liowe nad'
only kind words for each other, Mrs.
Eaton declaring .Mrs. Howe was a
woman of high character and ideals
i in the grip of shrewed politicians.
Mrs. Rowe asserted she could not un
derstand how Mrs,- Eaton could bring
such charges.
LAFDLLETTE
II RACE FOH
mm
IS
Announces Candidacy at Con
rerencc Ct Wisconsin rro- arrived here from Bordeaus. reported
gressive Republicans? Fa- j they were warned by wireless when
fors Arms Embargo. ! tw0 days out of ,he Presen,e 01 Gt'r-
I man commerce raiders in the southern
.VADISON, Wis.. Feb. 22. Before a I sea lanes, the first' warning being re
conference of Progressive Republicans j ceived, from an unnamed steamer
gathered froir all sections of the state. ; hich was being chased. News by
Ser.a'or I.afollctle announced his can- ruble, received here Sunday, said the
didar-y for the Presidency at the Re-
publican National Convention at Chi-,
cago in June.
"I nni a candidate for the Republi-'
can nomination for President." said j
Lafollette. I believe the patriotic pro-
gressive Republicans are at this time BERLIN. Feb. 22 The German gov
under the highest moral obligations to eminent has not rejected the British
contest every foot of ground in every ; proposals to provide Belgian indus
statn of the Union for representation
in the Chicago Convention."
Lafollette declared in favor of an em
bareo on arms and national manufac
ture of munitions of war and asserted .
Mint inv standing army the United
States maintains, instead of living
wasteful and useless lives, should, in
times of pence, be employed in scial '
service for the "overnment. Il also i
cn-niiert ion. through rnenaty onices
r.. ...... W Y. .... H . ... .,, .
Hit 1.1 I I ui I lini ll.li .1 IUIU
ertrlv establishment of peace among :
the nations. The conference pledged i
The conference pledged!
the Senator twenty-
-six delegates from '
Wisconsin and ten from North Dakota,
Ruins of Bergen.
fishinc center and seaport, was recently
OLNEY FOR GOVERNOR.
PHOENIX. Feb. 22. George
Olney, of Phoenix, announced
his candidacy for the Democra
tic nomination for governor. It
is expected Hunt will shortly an
nounce his candidacy.
i
i PORTFOLIO TO
PETROGRHO
Miieaor ; Former Secretary of the Inter
. t ten-: ior Accepts President's In
vitation to Represent United
States in Russia.
i
, ,iui ui .f i irruu i i, iuiu lilt- ririuriu lie
. . ... . .
,woia accept me posi 01 aniDassauor
j R(,Hsia , 8UC.Ped GeorRe Marye,
resigned
The nomination will be sent
to the Senate as soon as Inquiry is
made to Russia whether Francis is ac
ceptable. Francis called upon the President
with Senator Reed of Missouri. Later
he will confer with Secretary Lansing
about his duties. The President and
i Lansing attach unusual importance to
'the embassy at Petrograd at present
i because of qnostions erawing out of
the war problems, respecting the
, larg detention camps in Russia in
which thousands of Teuton prisoners
Vre bpld. Francis was offered the post
!to Argentina early in the present ad
ministration. He declined it because
of the press of personal business.
RAIDERS REPORTED.
NEW YORK. Feb. 22.-Oflicers of
French liner Chicago reported being
chased by a raider on its arrival at
Bordeaux.
PROPOSALS NOT REJECTED.
tries with raw materials, declares the
Norddeutsche and Allcemeine Zeitung,
in commenting on Sir Edward Grey's .language, and ought to be easily un-
letter to the Belgian minister in Urn- j derstood. but perhaps many of Ihe
don on the subject. (public, without reading it. have imme-,
The paper states Germany still hasldiately jumped to the conclusion that
the proposal under consideration. It
says some of the conditions clearly
show the British Intertion, artfully
concealed under a harmless mask.
deposited in cngiana. it ueciares u ,
n.r.,. that ll.tlerttim i - halno ml,tfil
Null I ' ui.i . " ,.iu,i, io ui,.,., i .......
of coal. The proposal of the British
was to rehabilitate Belgian industries
was to rehabilitate Belgian industries
under the American ronimtuuon tot
make, Belgium feed herself.
TO CITY OF BERGEN
almost entirelv destroved hv fire.
Wiley Jones Says Recent De
cision Was Not a Decision.
Conference with Wells
Fargo Official is Held.
PHOENIX. Feb. 22. Following a
conference on the personal use ques
tion between Attorney General Wiley
Jones, R. A. Cox of El Paso superin
tendent of the Wells Fargo Expresi
company in Arizona and New Mexico,
and J. M. Williams. local Wells Fargo
agent. a telegram was sent last night
by the express company officials to
A. Sutro, Wells Fargo attorney at
San Francisco.
The message was in response to
one from Sutro in which he asked for
i Attorney General Jones' opinion on
the recent personal use liauor decl
iniirn nnir un
UUHCD DfMu UP
Wll IIIU lll.Ub.ll I
INTERVIEW
a
sion rendered by the supreme court t matters connected with the blockade
a week ago last Saturday, in which I of Germany to one man with rank of
it held that liquor can be brought into' '"11 cabinet minister. It is under
lie state for personal use. j stood the post will go to Lord Robert
At the conference the three Wells Cecil. Under Secretary of Foreign Af
Fargo officials learned Jones' feeling j fairs, who w ill hold both posts,
about the matter and Sutro was ad- The new minister i charged with
vised accordingly last night. Sutro. 1 the administration of an order in
it Is expected, w ill make an announce-1 council regulating the blockade and
ment this week relative to w hether responsibility for the general policy
the Wells Fargo w ill accept liquor and practice of the government in re
shipments for Arizona. j spect to trade passing to and from
Attorney General Jones issued the neutral countries. Lord Cecil is a
following statement today on the per- i lawyer or wide experience and young
sonal use .question: 'as members go. His elevation will
"I have given out no official opinion. give the Unionists another representa
nor have I given no official advice tive in the cabinet.
whatever to any county attorney upon '
the subject of the supreme court de- BRITISH SAILORS GENEROUS,
cision in regard to personal use. The! LONDON. Feb. 22 That men on
brief interview published recently , British warships are turning out a
was quite brief indeed, and was only : large amount of war material in their
upon the point that the case decided spaer time is revealed in a letter from
did not involve a sale of liquor, neither David Lloyd-George to Admiral Beat
did it involve a carrier bringing liquor; ty. saying the "total output is striking
Into the state. i but more important is the magnificent
"The opinion of the supreme court : sPirit hat P"mpt-d the men ol Un
decided that there may be a Wal in- flw rt0" ,heir ,eisl,r' td ,w";
t,.,H..ntinn.i,.tn, if Ki-t fnr hiwf.t ! the men in the trenches loyal and -f-
purpose. and that the defendant had ;
made such an introduction iff thel
the question which is before the legal
advisers of the express and railroad
.... ... , .
Ity or risk assumed by the carrier if! social dutches from IVt:c.-:ad the.
the consignee ships the liquor in fori Turks ore . -aid to be eva. r.inog rb.
an unlawful use. That Is a matter z""1'- lh, Kussian advance along the
for the lawyers of the common car-! ':l ia having reached to within a
riers to pass upon, and not for the sin!e d:'' march to the port of Ri
0flj,.e zeh. A considerable force of Turks
"I state this so that it may be un-from Ezerum is hastening toward Ri
derstood what was in my mind when,"" in " hoi of finding the coast
I pave the brief interview that I did. road open to Trebizond. The only
having been informed that from one' route left open to the Turks retreating
to four hundred orders for liquor had west wrrd Is to Kharput. from where.
gone ' out
of this city alone. The
court's decision is w ritten in plain
. the 'Introduction clause of the pro-
hibition amendment is absolutely an-j
nulled, entirely overlooking this lan -
cuage of the decision:
The prohibition amendment in so'
far as it attempts to interdict its,nia. was arrested at the gang-plank of
shipment, transportation or introdue-.a
i intft tllA ftlttte
for a lawful pur-
i pose, is inetfectuil as an attempt to
i .-w.. ... .v . - - - r .
regulate interstate commerce.
regulate interstate commerce.
" it must not oe unaersiooa inai me.
(Continued on Tage 3)
US ON
TiHlT
AUSTRIAN
SRI
Weeks of Bitter Fighting Dis
astrous to Austrians; Ger
mans Capture Many French
Trenches Near Souchez.
RUSSIANS STILL
PRESSING TURKS
London Announces Appoint
ment of Lord Robert Cecil
to Direct German Blockade
Opposition.
LONDON. Feb. 22. The Italians
after weeks of hammering the Austri
an positions with big guns captured
the mountainous region of ('olio and
the Sugano Valley and occupied Ron-
cegno and Ronchi. They now are al
most In striking distance of the rm
chief objective city of Trentlies, pro
tected on the north, east and oiith
by a line of forts and fifteen miles to
i the west have captured a position by
J vicious fighting in the Atrois region
of France and along both Mnks of
the Meuse above Dun. East of
Souchez the Germans have captured
800 meters of Fernch trenches. A
French counter attack succeeded in
driving the Germans from all but a
few positions with no change along
the fornt in Russian Galicia.
The Russians are still pressing the
Turks hard in Armenia. The Turks
deny the capture of 1.000 canon and
8.mi0 men. The Bulgarians and
French are fighting on the Graeco
Serb frontier. The Bulgarian- were
lorced to retire. The entire crew of
twenty-two men or a eppenn Drougui
down by the French near Brabrant le-
Roi. perished in the flames
craft fell 00 feet.
as the
AGAINST GERMAN BLOCKADE
LONDON, Feb. 22 The govern
ment, through the Marquis of Lans
downe. announced in the House of
i Lords that it had decided to turn all
fwtlve support. The
is ,,l",e "hout
fait that the
pay. .it tli
wi-h. enhances its value.
RUSSIANS STILL ADVANCE
! LONDON. Feb. 22. According
t
they mUht strike southeast to join
i the Bagdad forces by way ol mernar-
kir. A German train carrying gun.
and munitions is reported w recked and
blown up in the Novo Alexandrovsk
district. Hundreds of soldiers are de-
dared to have been killed.
i CALIFORNIA M. D. IN TOILS.
i SEATTLE. Feb. 22-Dr. F. B. Jones,
proprietor of a sanitarium in Califor-
steamer just arrived from ancouv-
er He carried 11 phials
of drug.
the importation of which is forbidden.
He said he purchased the drug in
He said he purchased
nruisn i oiuniDia ior um- "i-
tarmm,
