THIS PAPER iuued in
Two Sections Section
two—pages 1 to •—Lo
cal news, stories, corre
spondence and Denison
Ipcals.
VOL. 51
PAVING CONTRACT
ACTS AS MAGNET
Contract for Practically 56000 Square
Yards of Pavipg Let to M. L. Flinn
Paving Co., of Sioux City.
PRICE $1.27!/z PER SQUARE YARD
Fourteen Bids Presented—Letting At
tended by More Than Fifty Bid
ders and Material Men.
UST or tow
M"
BIDS.
Por Brick.
Class'A, Base of Class A—
Vlios. Reason, Council Bluffs $121,900.!i0
Class A, Base of Class
.1. A. Beebe, Omaha 121,223.02
Class B, Base of Class B—
J. A. Beebe, Omaha .....
Class C, Base of Class B—
*.!. A. Beebe, Omalia
ribar Brick.
11!),704.5+
112,881.82
Dearborn Con. Co., Waterloo.. 115,4lO.!»4
Sheet Asphalt
Class A, Base U—
Jas. Horrabln, Des Moines .. 105,589.06
Class B. Base is—
Jas. Horrabln, Des Moines .. 103,314.82
Class C, liaso B—
Jus. Horrabln, Des Moines .. 103,314.82
Asphaltic Comcreta
Class A, Base R—
.las. Horrabln, Des Moines .. 101,609.14
Class U, Baso B—
Dearborn Con. Co., Waterloo.* !i3,.ri01.r2
ClaH.s C, Haso 1?—
Dearborn Con. Co., Waterloo.. 92,364.40
BltuUtlilo
1
iiisd A—
.las. Horrabln, Des Moines .. 11K.67ri.y8
Main Concret*.
M. L. Flinn l'av. Co 81^06.52
Armored Concrete.
M. Klinn Pav. do 84,934.60
Friday, Feb. 18, 1916, was the begin
ning of a new era for Denison, for on
that date a long step was taken that
will place Denison on a par with oth
er .cities pf the state—a paving step.
The contract for paving some 56,000
square yards of public streets was
awarded the M. L. Flinn Paving com
pany, of Sioux City, at a total price
of $81,806.52. At this price there is
also included the curbing and nay nec
essary grading. The price for plain
concrete was $1.27% per square pard
for curbing 38 cents per lineal foot
and 40 cents per cubic foot for grad
ing. The contractor must sign the
/contract within ten,days from.)the let
ting and furnish a bdnd for 50 per cent
of the contract price. Work is to be
start&d April ,1st and completed Aug.
1, 1916.
The letting of the contract served
as a magnet and drew more than flfty
bidders' and material men to Denison,
and by 1 o'clock on Friday afternoon
the city hall was filled with contract
ors, supply men and Interetsed tax­
'M
iaSe—r-—
WW!
:v
This year 1916 will witness the4 let
ting of some of the largest paving con
tracts ever let in Iowa. The total
square yards will run into the millions
and we venture the assertion that no
city in the state will receive cheaper
bids than did Denison last Friday.
Ames made a big hue and cry about
having received the lowest bid in the
state on bitulithic pavement and an
nounced a price of $1.89 for eight
miles of paving, yet Denison received
a bid for the same material at $1.88Ms
Harlan let the contract
-v'/""^a^':^
payers. There were fourteen bids
presented, each with a check for 5 per
cent of the amount of the bid, and the
checks were to be certified by a sol
vent local bank. This little clause
caused two bids to be thrown out as
the checks were on outside banks.
Bidders came from Minnesota, Nebras
ka and Iowa, all anxious to get the job.
Promptly at 1 o'clock the time for
receiving the bids closed, and after
the council had been called to order.
City Engineer Frank Woolston, assist-,
ed by Consulting Engineer Mayne, of
Council Bluffs, started the tabulation
of the bids as they were opened and
read. This consumed considerable
time and after the tabulation a recess
was taken until 7:30 o'clock, when
the council again met.
The meeting for the- first hour and a
half was of a secret nature, the coun
cil discussing the different kinds of
paving. It is understood that two of
the members stood for concrete, two
for asphaltic concrete and one for bitu
lithic. There were some rather heated
discussions as to the merits of the
different kinds of paving, and the con
crete members finally won over one of
the asphaltic members and a resolu
tion was passed favoring concrete.
The successful bidder, M. L. Flinn,
is a brother of P. T. Flinn, of Denison,
and is a contractor of very high stand
ing and financially able to carry on the
work. He has completed contracts at
Mitchell, Yankton and other South
Dakota points, as well as at Sioux
City, LeMars, Sheldon and many pther
Iowa cities. He is wfill supplied with
equipment and will come to Denison
prepared to push the work rapidly.
(oY
concrete
at $1.39 Mason City, with "a cement
factory within her gates, paid $1.30.
Denison's price is only $1.27%. Mis
souri Valley awarded a brick contract
only last week for $2.07 per square
yard, and Manning paid $2.03. Deni
son's highest price on brick was $1.96
and the lowest bid $1.84 per square
yard. A tabulation of the bids will be
found on page one of section one of
this issue.
Denison has. a splendid financial
standing among contractors ov$r~ the
country she has no outstanding time
warrants and a warrant does not have
to be discounted 10 per cent in order
to get the money. The only time war-
(Continued on Page Pour.)
Our Advanced Showing of Spring Millinery
Commences Thursday Morning
THE DENISON
125 TEACHERS
ATTEND MEETING
Study Center, Held at County Superin
tendent's Office Saturday Was
Well Attended.
PROF. COLGROVE GREAT TALKER
Supt. F. N.' Olry Highly Elated Over/
Success of These Meetings—One
More This Year.
The study center held at the county
superintendent's assembly room at the
court house Saturday was well attend
ed, one hundred and twenty teachers
from all parts of the county being pres
eilt to enjoy the lectures and discus
sions. Prof. C. H. Bailey, instructor
of manual training, and Prof. C. P.
Colgrove, instructor of didactics, at
the State Teachers' college lit Cedar
Falls, were present and all present en
joyed their instructive lectures. Pro
fessor Bailey gave some excellent
work for rural teachers. Professor
Colgrov'e was exceptionally fine and
many of the teachers were of the opin
fa
ion that he was the best lecturer who
has been in attendance at the study
center meetings..
Teachers who have failed to attend
these study center meetings are miss-
them in their school work. County
Supt. F. N. Olry is more than pleased
with the results of these meetings and
believes that the direct results are
much greater than those of the old
county institute. Only one more
study center will be held in this coun
ty this year and the date will' be an
nounced in the near future l*y Super
intendent Olry.
Below we print the list of names of
the teachers who were present at the
meeting held Saturday:
Charlotte Anderson, Christine Ander
son, J. L. Ainsworth, Hazel Aebischer
Marjorie Bryan, Jetta M. Bhaer, Pearl
Bhaer, Mary Brown, Winnie Brown.
Stanley Browne, Clara Blume, Vernon
Berg, O. R. Bliesman, Clifford Browne
Hazel Beales, Ethel Beales, Theodore
Blume, Birdie O. Berg, Abbie Cook, Ma
bel G. .Cole, Nellie Caulfield, Nelle
Connor, Nellie B. Collins, Kate Cava
naugh, Faye Chamberlin, Mae' Collins
Hilda Christensen, Clara Connor, Lil
lian Cranny, Florentain Dixon, Alice
Dixon, Eunice Dobson, Adalene Drts
coll,. James Edwards, Anna Mae Fitz
simraons, Leona Fitzpatrick, Leona
Firth, Bllen Goddard, Agnes Goddard.
Mary Giss. Minnie Giss,* Julia Goss
willer, Catherine Gaffey, Irene Hickey.
Loretta Harrington, Martha Hird, Har
riet Hall, Kate Rusterholz, Marie Rath
M. Regan, Edna Stewart, Nora Ste
phenson, Atheo Smith. Mariana Sims
Geo. Menagh & Co. announces
the opening of a complete line of
spring millinery. Hats made by
the finest millinery creators in
New York and Chicago in exact
copies, and reproductions of the most noted Paris
milliners* ideas are shown.
In Our Women's Wear Department Denison's
Fashionable Women's Store
Spring Modes—A Youthful Silhouette and Sharply Flaring Effects
Flared jackets, skirts and coats are the most fashionable for spring. In addition to the flaring ef
fects a number of models shbw rippling or box plaits, bell sleeves and touches of silk embroidery.
The new Wooltex suits and coats embody all the correct style tendencies. They also have added
merit in their exceptional quality and tailoring.
When yea choose Waollex caracals yon get clothes it rul character—» Ntward style ad iaward gwfass.
Their pure wool and pure silk fabrics, painstaking tailoring and splendid fit are all qualities that
mean much to you. And with all their wonderful excellence Wooltex garments are priced no higher than
ordinary garments. Let us show you the new Wooltex styles. Our display is a fashion show in itself, a
fashion display that will guide you correctly in choosing stylish spring garments.
Suits priced from $19.50 to $39.50. Coats priced from $15.00 to $25.00
Special Offering of Women's New Spring Coats
This lot was received on our floor on Monday of this week and is made up of high class new spring
coats, featuring all the very, newesft ideas that will be used by coat raauers this spring. The lot is made
up of black and white checks, serges, corduroys and novelties. There are coats in ttiis lot that would
retail regularly as high as $19.50. Priced very special, for Thursday, Friday and Saturday selling at
$7.95 and $10.00.
&
ISBllSBiilSIS
THIS WEEK'S NEWS THIS WEEK, NOT NEXT WEEK.
DENISON, IOWA, WEDNESDAY, FEB. 33, 1916.
Sara Trexel,' Mabel Thompson, Helen
Trexel, Emma Wilken, Golda Watke.
Albert Weiss, Anna Flynn, Mary Hall
Mary HalBtein, Alta Howe, Ethel Feme
Howe, Marian Harrington, Helen John
ston, Alice James, Jacob Johnson, Mar
ion Johnson, Helen Krai, Ruby M. Kel
ley, Ula Lamb, Ruth M. Leise, Hazel
Leise, Gertrude Latchaw, Benettta
Lamb, Maude Leahy, Myrtle McAhren.
A. G. Myers, Birdie Metcalf, Eliza
beth McGinn, Clara Morgan. Elsie Mc
Andrews, Iva Mason, Lucinda McHen
ry, Anna Murtaugh, Lillian Miller
Flora Morley, Lorelta Murphy, Myrtle
McAhren, N. G. Murchland!, C. W.
Manning. Henrietta Murphy, Blanche
Murchland, Marie Niewoehner, Emma
Nielsen, Kathrjri Newland. Effie Nor
ris, Agnes Owens, Martha Otto. Mary
A. Peters, Gertrude Patterson, Mary
M. Powers, Margaret Puroell, Elsie
Piper, Anna Powers, Marie Perry, Pro
fessor Rundell, Eana V. Raine, May
Smith, Blanche Sledhla, Olive Sophy
Jenna Strahan, Grace Tarpy. Violet
Tempest, Prof. W. L. Tupper. Nellie
ITpham, Donald Wilkinson, Nella A
Welch, Enna Wilber.
WILL TALK GOOD ROADS.
",nS and notices have been sent to the. jeen
ing much that would materially benefit1 members by Secretary R. E. Mote urg- U'trated their ability as theatrical di-
County Engineer H. B. Fishel has
mounted a number of photographs o?
some of the bridge and road work com
pleted in this coiihty during the past
fev." y?ars, which will be shown to the
members of the Opmmercial club and
explained. Mr. Fishel has gone to con-,
sidarable expense to have photographs
made of some of 'the fine bridge and
road work'done in this county and a
number of his views have been repro
duced in the bulletin is.si^d by the
stbte highway commission.
it is hoped that a goodly number of
the members of the Commercial club
will be in attendance at the meeting
this evening and we believo that the
members of the board will f'nd the
lenist.n business men heartily in fav
or of 'mprovirjv trtv hlgiivays of the
county in every possible way, ...
Attorney P. J. Xlinker was a pas
senger to Omaha' yesterday morning,
where he spent the day transacting
business and, incidentally took occas
ion to visit the auto show.
E O E E E N A A N O A N
WHITE MINSTRELS
MAKE A BIG HIT
Home Talent ,Production at Opera
House Thursday and Friday
Nights Proves Delightful.
ASSOCIATION NETS SUM OF $215.00
Much Artistic Talent Displayed by the
Performers, Each Number Re
ceiving Hearty Applause.
The lioine talent musical production,
"The White Minstrels," given on lasf.
Thursday and Friday evenings for the
benefit of tho Denison Athletic, asso
ciation, was as usual at affairs of this
kind, largely attended by enthusiastic
audiences, many of those who had at
tende'd the first evening being found
again among the audience at the sec
ond performance. The entertainment
consisted' of male choruses, minstrel
jokes, drills, farces and specialties,
and was highly entertaining through-
Members of Commercial Club and out. Certain it is that Denison people
County Supervisors in Confer- displayed a great amount of comrnend
ence at Club Room Tonight able talent on this occasion and the
entire program held the lively inter-
A special meeting of the Commer- est of the audiences. The production
cial club has been called for this eve-
u»der
ing them to be in attendance. Tiie rectors. After all expenses had been
meeting, we understand, was called at'paid and Mrs. Plummet* and her as
vi\e request of the board of supervis-|sistiuit received their share of the
ors, who are anxious to talk over tliejproceeds, the Athletic association had
matter of CraWford county's highways jeft jn the neighborhood of $215.
with the business :men of Denison and
ascertain if there, is any sentiment in
favor of surfacing some of the maiii
highways with gravel.
woven in the most
convenient and eco
nomical width. All
are 27 inches wide.
Spring will find the
women for the greater
part clad in this most
popular fabric. To
the direction of Mrs.
W. Plununer, assisted by Misa kath-
anci
tile two women demon
Tho entertainment opened with a
rousing chorus entitled "It's Tulip
Time in Holland," which was sung by
tho white minstrels, Harold Norman,
Earl Baurn, Lenahan Lally, Jesie Rig
gleman. Hubert VanNess, Carl Krauth,
Harry Clark, Jennings Newcom, Alfia
Uiehards, Emll Hugg, Nick Schlutpr
and Chas. Lamberty, ably assisted by
the colored members of the company,
Roy Mote, Carl Caswell, Zeb Ackley
and Dr. B. F. Philbrook. The solos
sung by Lenahan Lally, Carl Krauth,
Jennings Newcom. Harold Norman and
Hubert VanNess .were exceptionally
fine and each one were required to re
spond to a number of encores. The
'college quartet, which is always en
thusiastically received, rendered "De
Coppa Moon" in a pleasing manner.
Another quartet composed of Lenahan
Lally, Earl Baum, Carl Krauth and
Harold Norman, delighted the audience
with a pretty selection wbicJi, -, AV'as.
heartily encored. The instrumental
duet by Richards and Ackley was one
of the big hits of the first act and both
young men showed remarkable talent
on their stringed instruments. The
setting for the first scene was most at
tractive, the white minstrels dressed
1500 yds. to offer.
in black coats and white trousers ar
ranged in a semi-circle, while at the
rear the orchestra was seated upon an
elevation. The orchestra, composed
of J. V. Barborka, violin Mrs. D. E.
Voss. piano George Hover, clarinet,
and D. E. Voss, trapsk added much to
the musical numbers. Denison is most
fortunate in having such accomplished
musicians who are always glad to ren
der their services for entertainments
cf this character.
It would have been a hard matter to
have improved upon the four colored
entlemen who kept things lively with
their witty jokes, addressed to W. E.
Kahler,' who was master of ceremon
ies. Their makeups were clever and
those in the audience almost thought
that they were in sunny Alabama lis
tening to conversation among real
darkies. One of the features of .the
first act was a ventriloquism sketch
by 'Carl Caswell, who proved himself
master.
E. R. Adle proved to be one of the
hits of the evening, being forced to ap
pear four times in his dancing spe
cialty. Mr. Adle is a buck and wing
dancer of no mean ability and for each
ehcore lie had a different step, which
pleased the audience more than the
one which preceded it. The avalanche
of applause was cut short afte'r the
fourth appearance for the numbers to
follow.
Tiie operetta was followed by a harp
specialty by J. V. Barborka. These
solos are always a treat for Denison
people who are indeed favored when
Mr. Barborka consents to appear on
the program. He responded with sev
eral encores.
The big hit of the evening was the
colonial minuet, participated in by six
little cavaliers and colonial maids,
Maxiue Robinson, Sarah Pfarr, Cath
erine Woolston, Edna May Simpson,
Marie Hawley, Eleanor Kott. Greta
Thompson and Naomi Pester. The lit
tle misses were most attractive in
their pretty costumes of the colonial
days and they perfectly performed the
artistic minuet without a single .mis
take.
.Tha comedy.sketch, "Too iluch Mar
ried." was a perfect scream from start
to finish, involving more and more
complications as it progressed. The
audience was kept in an uproar by the
unexpected turns in events and every-
(Continued on Page Four.)
On account of the scarcity of raw niaterials and dye stuffs used
in the manufacture of silks, the price has steadily raised. But, by
special purchase of a large quantity, we are able to offer our usual
quality at an unusual price. We have just received the first ship*
ment of this purchase. New, rich, lustrous silks in spring's most
bewitching and enticing shades. The patterns are superb the
quality undisputable.
In this lot of silks are taffetas in checks, plaids and stripes,
Be First to Make Your Selection at This Price, as
Later Purchasers Will Pay More
iWrol-'iiilfe tuft
.-•••'.•"••' -:v,•
Boosters, Let's make the
year 1916 the best year
in the history of Deni
son.
CIVIC LEAGUE
HOLDS MEETING
Meeting Held Last Sunday Afternoon
in Presbyterian Church to Con
sider Equal Suffrage.
TOURTELLOT AND SIMS SPEAK
Two Ve«y Live Addresses in Favor of
Equal Suffrage Were Heard by
a Large Audience.
The-Civic league met on Sunday af
ternoon in the Presbyterian church. It
had been announced that the program
would consist of talks pro and con on
equal suffrage, but as no one could be
found to take the opposing side the
program consisted of two very live
talks in favor of equal suffrage.
1
The Indian operetta, "keed Bird,"
was one of the main features of the
evening's entertainment and six pret
ty Indian maids, Helen Boylan, Dor
othy Jones, Beulah Aylesworth, Agnes
Henry, Prances Leahy and Erma
Chamberlin. presided over by the In
dian chief. Earl Baum, dancel artisti
cally in the moonlight to the accom
paniment of an Indian song which they
sang. The setting for the operetta
was exquisite, the lighting being most
effective.
The first speaker was Rev. J. C.
Tourtellot, who began by stating that
equal suffrage is right and a good
thing. He told how laws effect the
home, lax laws in regard to divorce
tending to tear down the home, etc.,
and pleaded that she who has most to
do with building the home and keep
ing up its standards should have a
voice in making the laws whereby
that home shall stand or fall. Speaking
of the effect which equal suffrage
would have on the church, the speak
er cited that so many of the great
leaders recorded in the bible wfere
women., While the church should not
devote its time to great reforms sucli
as suffrage or prohibition as that 'is
not its primary function, yet it should
furnish the inspiration as well aB the
leaders, and it does. In closing Rev.
Tourtelloi stated that since the devil
and his forces are so universally and
actively opposed to women voting that
that should be enough to arouse the
christian forces to their duty and priv
ilege in supporting it at the polls.
The second speaker was Mr. Jacob
Sims. He opened his address by ask
ing the question, "What divine right
have we, have 1, to deny women the
right of suffrage? Where did we eet
it?" And in answering he said: "We
took it by right of superior physical
strength we took it and reserved the
right to extend it." He then showed
how the negro and the Indian were en
franchised without even asking for
that right and yet women have for
fifty years been asking for the ballot
and men have steadily denied her the
right of franchise. "Who are we
said the speaker. "Bome bf usafe in
telligent beings, but along with us
stand the gambler, the saloon keeper,
the thug and the man of vice, whose
business it is to tear down society. Ev-
(Continued on Page Three)
really understand the
unusual offering, we
advise an early inspec
tion. This assortment
will be placed oh sale
Thursday morning and
continues until Satur
day evening, if they
last.
I
$
No. 8
4
