PAW!PAW, MICHIGAN, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1916
WHOLE NUMBER 4208
' i
K VOLUME 62 Number 4
Tnimiouinniimiin
lunnomruHUbUG
CALLED MARCH 11
Contest for Treasurer will
be the big fight Six can
didates. The republican township caucus hns
been called for Saturday, March 11, at
the opera house. It is probable that
there iHH b? but one content in theeau
us, and that will be for township treas
urer. There are six candidates in the
ield for this office and early activities
would indicate mat toe caucus will be
large ami the contest warm Those who
have signified their willingness to serve
i&ustoilian of the township strong box
as follows:- Leo Prater, Chas. N.
Hathaway. Edward Nash, Jay Dodge,
Neil Eogel and C. W. Van Tassell.
T. B. Woodman has served as super
visor during the past year to the satis
faction of everybody. He is the right
aN(or the place, and there will be no
opposition. Be will be nominated by
acclamation. The same may he said of
-ur efficient clerk, Frank V. Hodges,
Highway Commissioner, Frank Labadie
ami Overseer of Highways, John Minnich
There will undoubtedly be no opposition
to the renomiuation of the above officials
There may be some minor contests for
Justice of the Peace, but the "big noise"
will be a selection of a candidate for
Treasurer. The candidates are all busy,
and it would exceedingly difficult at this
atage of the game, for the "wise ones"
to tempt to name the winner.
Eaton & Mosier
Successors to G. W. TYLER & CO.
We Pay Cash For Eggs.
CASH ATTRACTIONS
8 Cans Hominy, size three, For
3 Cans Sauer Kraut, size thret ..For
3 Cans Sweet Corn, size two, For
3 Cans Early June Peas, size two For
6 Cans Oil Sardines For
3 Cans (large) Mustard Sardines For
4 Great Big juicy Grape Fruit For
For Coughs and Colds
We recommend our own special mixture
Mentholated Expectorant
A combination of recognized Coughs and Cold curatives.
It is safe, pleasant and reliable. We sell this in bulk at
10c per ounce, 3 ounces for 25c. We also carry a
Full Line off the Staple Patents
WE WANT YOUR PATRONAGE
WE DELIVER GOODS OUR PHONE No. IS 160
1 12 Reasons
1. No half or under guage
2. Open hearth, spring steel the line, stay and knot of the same hign quality of steel.
3. Galvanizing applied by the latest process in a heavy, smooth, even coat, that insures
long life.
4. "Tha Tie That Binds" is a long, oval knot, with gradual and easy curves non
slipping which is applied without injury to either line or cross wires.
5. Rigid one-piece stay evenly distributes any sudden inpact or strain, trusses tbf
fence at each stay wire, making less posts necessary.
K 6 All intermediate stay
m
g of material.
7 Tension curves are long and easy; no sharp kinks to break the steel or galvanizing.
8. A fence that is pliable, can be as easily and perfectly constructed over extremely
hilly ground as over level fields.
(.. A fence that can be taken down and reconstructed time after time, because it is me
chanically petfect in both material and method of fabrication.
10. Seven distinct inspections is an example of the care used in our weaving department
11. An unqualified guarantee. i
12. The above is attested by thousands of satisfied users.
3000 Rods on hand to meet your demands. We specialize on the 6 inch
8tay Hog Fence. We both lose, if you fail to examine the Adrian Fence.
H. C. WATERS & COMPANY
M. H YOUNG GOES
ON SCHOOL BOARD
The school board held a meeting in
the office of the secretary T. J. Cava
naugh last Saturday afternoon to name
a successor to the late Dr. W C. Y.
Ferguson. Merle H. Young was select
ed to fill this vacancy. The selection is
an excellent one, and will meet tLe ap
proval of the patrons of the Paw Paw
schools. Mr. Young is a graduate of the
Paw Paw schools, and al4 of the Law
Department of the U. (J M. He has
that keen intellect, thai interest in pub
lic affairs, a good stiff backbone coupled
with wood judgement, the ability and
the time which the best interests of
the schools demand. He should be a
worthy successor to our lamented Dr.
Ferguson who devotee so munv years of
his life to the welfare of the public
schools.
enfebtainTSay club
Last Friday afternoon Mrs. W. A.
Simkins was hostess to the ladies of the
Friday club and a few invited guests.
The ladies carried their sewing and a
pleasan' afternoon was spent in work
and social chat. A dainty array of re
freshments was serveoVfrom the dining
table, which presented a most attractive
appearance inTts decorations of spring
flowers, cut glass and silver. The ladies
departed for their respective boais at a
late hour with the thoughts of another
of the many pleasant afternoons for
which the Friday club is becoming fa
mous. 25c
25c
for buying Adrian Fence
wires used.
and line wires are of the same size-
MR, AND MRS, ERASTUS CONE CELEBRATED
. THEIR GOLDEN WEDDING LAST TUESDAY
Mr. and Mrs. Erastus Cone have
passed the fiftieth milestone of a happy
wedded life. They were joined in mar
riage on February 22, 1866, at Milan,
Monroe county, Mich., Mrs. Cones
maiden name being rOnzbeth Culver.
On Tuesday of this week the relatives
of this estimable couple gathered to help
them celebrate their golden wedding.
It was a notable even in the Cone and
Culver families and will help make
brighter their dtcUning years as they
traverse the pathway leading to the Au
tumn of life.
Mr and Mrs. Cone have been resident
of Van Buren county for a period of 40
years, 32 years of the time in Blooming
dale. Five years ago he was appointed
deputy sheriff, and since that time has
been a resident of Paw Paw.
All the near relatives were present for
this joyous occasion except one brother
of Washtenaw county, who could not
get here Following is the list of those
present:
Brothers of Mr. Cone Mr. and Mrs.
Joseph Cone, Milen; Mr. and Mrs. Wm.
Cone, Saginaw; J. D. Throop, South
Lyons. Sisters Mr. and Mrs. Bert
Bailey, Detroit; Mrs. Mary Swartout.
Ann Arbor.
Brothers of Mrs. Cone Mr. and Mrs
W. M. Culver, Clyde; Mr. and Mrs. W.
H. Culver, Paw Paw; J. E. Culver,
Bloomiogdale.
Children Mr. and Mrs. E. E Cone
son Walter and daughters Anna and
Geneva, Grand Rapide; Mrs. Sarah Cul
ver, daugh er Dora and son Nea'on a
Bradley; Leslie Cone. Grand Kapids;
Jesse Cone Detroit
Nephews and niece Mr. and Mrfr
J. A. Underwood, ' South Lyons; Mrs
Belle Austin, Albion; Mr. and Mrs. Ed.
Cone, Blooming h; Miss Etta Culver,
Paw Paw; Miss Edith Culver, Kalama
zoo; Mr. and Mrs. fe L. Irons and
daughter Liola, Bloomingdale: Mr. and
Mrs. Claude Warboy and daughter Mae,
Ypsilanti; Mrs. Tessie M itchell, Clinton.
A friend, Miss Marie Newell, of Lan
sing was also prpsent.
A sumptuous dinner was served, many
beautiful gifts were left for Mr. and Mm.
('one and it was a day never to be for
no weak points
-no scrimp
gotten by all present. The True North
erner joins the hosts of friends of Mr.
and Mrs. Cone in felicitations and best
wishes for many more happ wedding
anniversary days.
FARM
ABUSER
CHOSEN
T.E.Farrand of Eaton Ra
pids, Former President
of Mich. Horticultural
Society is Selected.
At a meeting of the Van Buren coun
ty farmers' federation held at Hartford,
Tuesday, the board of control inter
viewed T. A. Karrand of Eaton Rapids in
regard to acting as agricultural agent
for this county. The board was unani
mously in favor of asking the agricul
tural department to place Mr. Farrand
here, for he is a man especially well
fitted to act as agent in this county.
He was connected with the experimental
station at South Haven from 1906 to
1910 and is therefore quite well known
throughout the county. His work over
the state and at his horm shows him to
be a man well qualified for the position,
and the farmers of the county as well as
the federation are fortunate in obtaining
his services Tht re is still a little money
to be raised by subscription to carry on
this work, so lei's everybody lend a
helping hnnd, if you have not already
done so.
ENTERTAIN AT DINNER
Mr. and Mrs (iuy K. Warner enter
tamed a small company of their young
married friends to a seven o'clock dinner
at their home on Kalamazoo street last
Tuesday night. Covers were laid for
ten, and a sumptuous four course spread
whs served by the hostess. Cards, music
ur tl social intercourse consumed the
balarce of the evening. The guests re
port a most delightful evening.
m -4
CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINA
TION FOR CLERK CARER
An examination for clerk and carrier
will be held at the postofiice in this city
on March 11, 1916.
Age limit, 18 to 45 years on the date
of the examination.
Married women will not be admitted
to the examination. This prohibition,
however, does not apply to women who
are divorced, but they are eligible for
appointment only as clerk.
Applicants must be physically sound,
and male applicants must be not les
than B feet 4 inches m heighth in hare
feet, and weigh not less than 125 pounds
without overcoat or hat.
For application blanks and for full in
formation relative to the examination,
qualifications, duties, salaries, vacations,
promotions, etc., address immediately
A K K A L. HaWLEY,
Secretary Board Civil Service Exam
iners, Postofiice, Paw Paw, Michigan,
MERCY.
To show mercy is nothing;
thy aoul mutt be full of mercy.
To be pure is nothing; thou
shalt be purs in heart also
Ruskin.
We have been having nice spring
weather. Anyone seen a robi yet?
DEATH CLAIMS MRS,
CLAIRE HARRISON
One of the most sudden and shocking
deaths of the year occurred at the resi
dence of G. E. Chappell, Wednesday
afternoon, when Mrs. Claire C. Harrison
succumbed to an apoplectic strutfe while
seated at the telephone. She as alone
at the time save for her son Dale, who
hurried to her when he heard the sound
of a muffled fall and a gasp. Death
touched her not five minutes later, and
she never recovered consciousness
Mrs. Harrison, while by no means in
perfect health, was unusually active
Wedresday and was down town as late
as 4:30. Death was merciful, coming
quickly and painlessly, and she was
spared all worry and anxiety. Dr. Hoyt
reached the scene shortly after being
summoned, but she was beyond aid.
This trouble coming upon the heels of
Mrs. S. M. Cbappell's death January 31
brings great sorrow to the household
and to the community. Two children,
Dale and Helen, her father, G. E Chap
pell, and two brothers, Kay C. and Neil
C. Chappell, are the immediate relatives
who survive. Among the many others
who will mourn her passing are nephews
and nieces and a host of friends.
Mrs. Harrison was a woman in the
prime of life, prominent in musical,
church and social circles and highly
respected and esteemed by everyone.
Her passing will be keenly felt by the
community.
The funeral will be held Saturday
from the house at 1:30 p. m
weddingIells
Forme? Paw Paw Young
lady married.
Monday evening Miss Florence Soule
and Mr. Eiso Bruggema of Kalamazoo,
were met at the evening train by friends
and the happy party went at once to the
home of Kev. F. A. Shape, where a quiet
and simple wedding ceremony was per
formed. The wedding party then went
to the home of the brides sister, Mrs.
Charles Filley, where a dainty wedding
supper was awaiting them. The bride
is a graduate of the state hospital and
the groom holds a responsible position
with the Kemington typewriter Co. orf
Chicago. The happy young couple start
out in life with the best wishes of their
many friends.
MRS. SHOWER MAN'S BUSY DAY
February 22, Washington's birthday
was a bu4y day at the home of Mrs
Harry Showerman. At nooo she enter
tained the n embers of the Up to-Date
bridge club at a dinner served at Memo
rial ball, after which the ladies returned
to the h( me of the hostess and the af
ternoon soon passed in plaving the pop
ular game. Dainty refreshments were
also served here by Mrs Showerman,
assisted by M-s. Frank Fuller.
In the evenir g the Maids and Matrons
took posession of the same home, the
same tables and the same hostess, and
the evening proved all too short. Con
trary to the by 'aws the hostess, in
honor of Washington's birthday, again
served dainty refreshim-i ts Thus iodad
a busy day for Mrs. Showerman sod a
day of good cheer and happiness for her
many friend-.
SPECIAL
THE IDLE HOUR
BIRTH OF A NATION
Featuring America's most heroic character and
unique Novelty entertainer The original
historic
Drummer Boy of Shiloh
A characteristic American protean Music Drama
with unique novelty specialities. Unusual musical
surprises, and heroic military action
War Time Rem iniscenses
The picturing the discovery, building and
achievements tf the
Great American Republic
10c Ten Cents To All 10c
NO VILLAGE CON
TESTIS YEAR
Splendid ticket nominated
in Union caucus last
Monday night.
The Union caucus held at the council
rooms last Monday evening was one of
the largest ever held in Paw Paw.
There has been considerable agitation
in regard to a non-partisan adminiatr.
itioo of village affairs, and the Republi-
can Hnr1 IVMMittL u .. .
vm, uuujuimees caned a
union caucus to nominate such a ticket.
No opposition was manifest, and there
will be but one ticket in the field, cer
tainly an unusual thing for Paw Paw.
The caucus was called to order by H.
L. McNeil member of the democratic
village committee. R. W. Broughton
was made chairman and H. L. McNeil
secretary. On motion the chair appoint
ed A. O. Duncombe, L. E. Shepard and
Glenn Munson tellers. Officers were
sworn by Wm. H. Mason.
It was the opinion of the joint com
mittees that no nominations should be
made, but that the caucus shouldrpro
ceed with an informal ballot. This plan
was accepted, and all officers were placed
in nomination by ballot, and made the
unaninous choice of the caucus by viva
voce vote.
For President, there was a total of 74
votes cast, of which Chas Lake received
60, balance scattering.
For Clerk, Harold D. Spicer received
75 votes out of a total of 79.
For Treasurer there was a total of 79
votes of which Manly Nunnerly received
53, balance scattering.
For Assessor, L. E Shepard received
67 out of a total of 73 votes.
Owning to the fact that there were
three trustees to be nominated for a full
term and one for a partial term, there
was some confusion and several ballots
taken before a choice was maae. Follow
ing is the excellent list that was finally
nominated: M. H. Young, Neil Engel,
H. Li. McNeil and W. J. Warner.
On motion the same village committees
were retained for the ensuing year. It
was a most enthusiastic and harmonious
caucus, a splendid ticket waa nominated
and everything augurs well for the suc
cess of the new idea in the administra
tion of village affairs
LOCAL BOYS FORM
MAGAZINE AGENCY
Donald Payne and Robert Dillon have
established a newspaper and magazine
agency which will be of great convenience
to the reading public. There is no com
bination of periodicals which they can
not suuply, at greptly reduced rates.
If you havn't already ordered vour read
ing matter for the ensuing year vou
should by all means see them before
placing our order. Th re is one at
I ractive combination ir e nding the True
Northerner which should appeal especial
I) to our rural readers. Note the quarter
page'announeernent of this nffiT on an
other page Subscription for this at
tractive combination may be sent to The
True Northerner or given the agency
Payne a no Dillon.
TO - NIGHT
