iv
Ij/mo
IMPLEMENT PRICES
TO SOAR SKYWARD
STEEL TRUST ADVANCES PRICE
OF RAW MATERIAL USED IN
MACHINES.
PIG IRON AND STEEL IN DEMAND
BY EUROPEAN COUNTRIES
NOW AT WAR.
Farmers probably will be the next
victims of high prices resulting from the
advance in the price of raw materials
caused by the European war. Circular
letters received by local dealers from the
manufacturers of farm implements are
to the effect that an advance in the price
of farm machinery is to be anticipated
unless there should be a sudden ending
of the conflict. Even then, it is pre
dicted, the prices are liable to ^advance
somewhat on account of the shortages
already created.
As a result of the great demand for
steel and iron for the manufacture of
implements of death and warfare and the
building of war ships, the steel trust and
other producers of iron and steel, have
raised their prices again and again on
their products, and following this raise
the manufacturers of farm implements
have come to the conclusion that they
will be forced to raise the prices on their
goods if they want to break even in the
coming season.
While the pig iron and steel may not
cost the steel trust any more than it as
heretofore, they and their allies are taking
advantage of the situation and forcing
the prices their products up to the
highest possible notch. Manufacturers
of farm implements do not produce their
own pig iron and steel, but are obliged
to buy it, as a rule, from the steel trust
at whatever price the latter may stipu
late..
One of the local farm machinery houses
~handed the Review a circular which in
dicates clearly what may be expected
along the line of higher prices in the near
future. The following is taken there
from:
"The increasing consumption of Ameri
can factory products, particularly steel,
occasioned by growing domestic require
ments and the foreign demand due to the
European War, compels us to face the
greatest advance in the cost of materials
our history.
The following are some of the ad
vances which have occurred since we
made our prices to the trade a few
of the products which are principally
used in the manufacture of implements:
Steel Bars & Plow Beams $14.00 per ton
Plate Steel 16.00 per ton
Steel Sheets 29.00 per ton
Foundry Pig Iron 6.00 per ton
"Other materials have made propor
tionate advances, and in addition, still
greater advances have occurred in such
expense materials as oil, high speed drills,
tool steel, etc. The labor cost has also
materially increased.
"Deahrs have been selling agricul
tural implements on such close margins
of profit that it seems quite necessary
for the dealer to add this advance in cost
to his selling price.
"We urge upon the necessity of put
ting this advance into effect immediately,
for the advance that we are putting on
now must inevitably be followed, in the
very near future, should the present
market trend continue, by further ad
vances of a considerable amount."
The following are a few of the prices
advances made, and which in some in
stances is only one of a series of advances,
and which may be followed by others
later:
Rolling Coulters—10 per cent.
Riding and Walking Cultivators
per cent.
Steel Harrows—10 per cent.
Disc Harrows—10 per cent.
Road Scrapers—25 per cent.
Tongue Scrapers—50 cents.
Corn Planters—10 per cent.
Manure Spreaders—$5.00.
Hay Rakes—$1.00.
The state hospital fund will lose
$11,000 as the result of the reduced
number of saloon licenses issued in the
state, according to a report of State
Auditor Preuss. In 1914 the two per
cent tax on all saloon licenses for the
ft
10
HOSPITAL HIT BY PROHIBITION
LAWS OF STATE.
pport of the institution yielded $48,
293.36, hut the returns of the county
auditors this year show only $37,297.86
available from this source.
SU
During the year, forty-six counties
have voted dry and in 1916 the revenue
&5L2KWI'
•Ji'iiiiifii'iiJiMilfiliiniii
aa& ausmmsimsmmma^ma
ttM
will be reduced by $6,000 at least, and
possibly more.
Hennepin, Ramsey, Red Lake and
one or two other counties have returned
greater contributions to the fund for the
past year than in 1914, but in no measure
that would offset the loss of nearly $3,000
from the efforts of the Indian bureau and
that from the closing of saloons through
county option.
The tax collected in Hennepin county
totaled $8,538 from 428 saloons and
Ramsey county with 435 saloons, paid
$8,550.
Red Lake county, which is surrounded
by dry territory, increased its portion of
aid to the hospital for inebriates from
$100 in 1914 to $394 in 1915, almost
trebling the number of dramshops in one
year.
Mr. Preus' figures show that 2,128
saloons were taxed in 1915, but more
than 300 have been voted out in the past
twelve months.
ORIGINAL LECTURES
ON TIMELY TOPICS
MONTAVILLE FLOWERS FOR:
MOST LYCEUM LECTURER OF
AMERICA.
JAPANESE PROBLEM SUBJECT
FOR FINAL NUMBER AT HIGH
SCHOOL.
Monday evening of next week, Feb.
28, the fourth and final number of the
lecture course arranged by the Current
News Club, will be given at the High
School auditorium with Mr. Montaville
Flowers in "Original Lectures on World
Problems." Mr. Flowers is known from
one end of the country to the other as
one of America's foremost lecturers, hold
ing the unique position of brilliant and
preminent success in two distinctfieldsof
lyceum work interpretation of classics
and American drama.
Being a Californian the Japanese pro
blem is, of course, one in which Mr.
Flowers is especially interested and well
versed. In a personal statement on that
situation he says:
"The Japanese problem is NOT local.
It is national and universal. It affects
every one of you and all America's future.
It is a powerful new-world movement
striking its frontal tide against our west
ern coast. My residence there has im
pressed me with an array of facts of
which my travel everywhere teaches me
you are profoundly unconscious. I want
to tell you of them. This question re
quires us to survey all the parallels of
history, to scrutinize all the science of
life and to evolve a course of action in
which every American citizen must parti
cipate.
"Only a few months ago, anti-alien
land legislation of the western states set
all the world to thinking. I try to set
in order the essential facts bearing upon
this problem, to interpret the position
the people of the western states have
taken upon it, to trace the mental pro
cesses by which they have reached that
position and to show you, all, your vital
relation to the present-status of the pro
blem.
"I summarize the federal laws and
court decisions, define the rights of aliens,
present the bills and treaties in control
versy, answer the objections Japan has
made to them, and analyze the criticisms
which have sprung out of the sentiments
of the academicians and doctrinaires of
our country.
"This but leads to the main theme
which is a- study of the immutable laws
which control the hybridization of races,
and a review of the inevitable results as
written in the long experience of men and
nations of the past. And all of this with
the hope that all Americans may see the
course we must pursue, and have courage
to pursue it."
With regard to his "Life Lectures"
Mr. Flowers has this to say of their
purpose- "I do not want my audience to
think of me, or see me, but to think of my
drama and see the characters in it. It will
not be what I shall do that will please
but what they will experience in thoughts
that breathe and words that burn. We
shall live together tonight in company
with all the men and women, good and
bad, that make up a great masterpiece.
And when it is over, if I succeed and my
audience succeeds, we shall have turned
a piece of literature into real life, and
have traversed the realm of the ideal, and
have gained from it power to help, and
and love to do in the prosier moments of
the life tomorrow."
At this time it is not definitely known
which one of his lectures Mr. Flowers will
give in New Ulm but either is sure to be
well worth while. The admission fee is
35 cents, but students o|«the schools
have a special rate of 25 cents.
ifr&i&JL
TURNERS OF STATE
MEET IN NEW ULM
FIFTIETH ANNUAL CONVENTION
DATED FOR MIDDLE OF
NEXT MONTH."
EDITOR OF OFFICIAL PAPER WILL
LECTURE ON INTERESTING
TOPICS.
Saturday and Sunday, March 11 and
12, the fiftieth state convention of the
Minnesota Turnbezirk will be held in
New Ulm and about thirty delegates
from the Twin Cities and as many
visitors are expected in the city at that
time. At the regular meeting of theold
Turnverein the following delegates were
elected to represent the local society at
the convention: Fred Pfaender, Henry
Engel, Alfred Schroeck, Chas. Emmerich,
Otto Oswald, Hermann Hein and Aug.
Marschner.
The sessions of the convention will be
gin at 10 o'clock, Saturday morning and
will be concluded on Sunday afternoon.
A program for the sessions is now being
worked out by a committee. In a letter
notifying the local society of the dates
set for the sessions, the "Vorort" of the
Turnbezirk at Minneapolis announces
that it has engaged the services of Martin
Bunge, editor of the Amerikanische
Turnzeitung, for a lecture the evening
of the first day's session. The local
society also has asked Mr. Bunge to
lecture the evening preceding the con
vention. The subject of the lecture on
Saturday evening will be "Aims and
Principles of the North American Gym
nastic Union" and he has been asked to
speak on "Germany and the United
States, the Two Greatest Nations on
Earth, and Their Relation Before and
After the War" on Friday evening,
March 10th. Mr. Bunge is one of the
most forceful speakers of the Turnerbund
and as his subjects are such as will create
general interest, a large attendance is
expected at both of them. A short
Personal property taxes will become
delinquent on March 1 and County
Treasurer Berg and his assistants are
anticipating the usual eleventh hour
rush at the end of the present month.
So far the collections have been coming
in but slowly.
musical or-literary program probably will a tendency to cause other complications.
precede the lecture. These did not develop, however, and the
The sessions of the convention and the patient seems to be getting along nicely
lecture will be held at the small hall of
Turner Theatre.
YOUTHFUL HUNTER
MOOTS PLAYMATE
ELDRED GIESEKE AT HOSPITAL
SUFFERING FROM BULLET
WOUND.
BULLET PROBED FOR AND FOUND
BY MEANS OF X-RAY
PICTURES.
Another hunting accident, which re
sulted in the serious injury of Eldred
Gieseke, 12-year-old son of William
Gieseke, and endangering the lives of
several boys, occurred last Saturday
afternoon, shortly after 4 o'clock on the
Hermann Kuehnel farm, across the
river from New Ulm in Nicollet county.
Young Gieseke and three other boys
slightly older than himself had gone to
the woods in that vicinity with the in
tention of shooting squirrels, taking a
.22 calibre rifle.
They had indulged in target practice
for some time, when the hammer of the
rifle jammed the cartridge without ex
ploding it. The boys tried to pry out the
shell with a nail and when it refused to
budge, Rufus Taylor, one of the young
hunters, gave the nail a sharp tap. The
shell exploded and young Gieseke fell
to the ground, shrieking with pain. The
bullet had struck him in the right side
and inflicted a wound which atfirstwas
thought would have a fatal result.
The boy's companions carried their
wounded friend to the house and from
there he was rushed to the Union hospital.
An operation was deemed necessary in
orde* to save the boy's live and after the
bullet had been located by means of the
X-ray picti +iken by Dr. Reinecke
this wa^f
The that the bullet
had taken a aownward course after
entering the right side. It evidently
struck a bone and glanced off before
reas&wag the spinal colrmn. In its
course it perforated the-mtestines four
times, and this, it was feared, would have
according to last reports from the
hospital. The bullet with which the
boy was hit is a .22 short and when re
moved was in a flattened condition not
unlike the shape of a shoe.
H. O. SCHLEUDER, Jeweler and Optometrist
Rufus Taylor, the lad on whom rests
the blame for the accident, became
hysterical immediately after the removal
of young Gieseke to the hospital and for
a while it seemed as though there would
be another hospital case. He has im-
proved, however, since being informed
that his playmate will not lose his life
as the result of his carelessness.
This is the third accident since the
opening of the hunting season last fall,
directly attributable to the careless
handling of firearms in the hands of
young boys and it seems that all the
warnings have been of no avail. In this
connection comment has been made
within the last few days of promiscuous
shooting in the vicinity of the college and
the Loretto hospital. Young boys, just
about the age of the ones which are im
plicated in the recent accident, are said
to be shooting at targets and squirrels
every Sunday andsometimes after school
hours during the week. Several people
have had narrow escapes from being hit
by stray bullets, some of them even
hitting close to students passing up and
down Center street hill. Hunting with
shot guns is not as dangerous as the use
of rifles, because of the greater carrying
power of the smaller bored weapon.
PISTOL PLAY LANDS
ESSIG MAN IN JAIL
COMES TO DANCE AT ESSIG
LOADED WITH MUNITIONS
OF WAR.
GIRL PLAYS DIPLOMAT AND
BEATS HASTY RETREAT
UPSTAIRS
M. H. Lang of Essig has been confined
at the county jail since last Saturday
night when he was brought to this city
by Constable Robert Lambrecht, charged
with having threatened Miss Maymie
Gansky of Home township with a
revolver. The affair seems to have
originated from a lovers' quarrel of a
week or so ago, when the two parties
returned from a dance at Sleepy Eye in
company with several other young people.
Miss Ganske at that time did not ap
prove of the behavior of the young man
When they arrived he asked Miss
Gansky to step into a room adjoining the
dance hall and then began to display his
artillery, saying that he would kill her if
she would not promise to marry him.
The girl was up to the tactics of war,
however,, and by making a half-promise
quieted the excited young man and then
hastily retreated up the stairs.
With no one in sight to take a shot at
Lang is then said to have tried to remove
the evidence of his intended crime by
taking the two revolvers and hiding them
under the depot platform. In the mean
time the girl had alarmed her friends and
James Case and Constable Lambrecht
started out to round up the would-be
gun man. He found him in the store
adjoining the dance hall and very docile,
indeed. He at first tried to make the
officials believe that it was all a joke, but
finally broke down and confessed that
he had tried to kill the girl. He then
led the officer to the spot where he had
concealed the firearms.
Lang's case was up before Justice
Her ningsen Tuesday forenoon, but upon
motion of County Attorney Frederick
son the hearing was postponed until
Monday, Feb. 28th. In the meantime
the defendant will occupy a cell at the
county jail as he was unable to furnish
the bond fixed at $2,000. Somsen
Dempsey & Mueller are appearing for the
defendant.
Statements made by residents of the
..vicinity of the young man's home arc
to the effect that he is said to have
threatened the same girl on a previous
occasion, but whether or not he had a
gun at that time is not known. Both
of the weapons found by the officers
under the depot platform were loaded
and other shells were found upon the
accused's person after the arrest.
LOCAL MEN VIEW
BROOKINGS PLANT
EXHAUST STEAM FROM MUNI*
CIPAL LIGHT AND WATER
WORKS UTILIZED
SYSTEM MUST BE COMPACT IN
ORDER TO BE SUCCESSFUL
forming him that, his company was ^^^^se^Sl^e steam would
longer desired.
Young Lang no doubt regarded this
move on the part of the girl as a hostile
act and last Saturday set forth to ex
terminate the enemy. He went to
Sleepy Eye, loaded up a cargo of muni
tions of war, among them a lot of liquid
provisions and two young cannons of .22
calibre. Armed thusly he drove to
Essig, where a dance was to be held that
evening and waited for the arrival of the
girl who, with several girl companions
came down to Essig on the evening train.
About 75 farmers of the vicinity of
Morgan have signed up for stock in the
proposed new co-operative creamery
company and the success of the venture
seems assured. Several of the retired
farmers of the vicinity of Morgan, now
residing in New Ulm, are interested in
the proposition. -,-»£ "./."SS
AND PROFITABLE
That New Ulm should make use of the
exhaust steam which is now going a
waste at the municipal lighting plant, is
the opinion of the Commercial Club
committee, composed of Messrs. Alf.
Vogel, Ferd. Crone and Henry Somsen.
which made a trip to Brookings, S. D.,
last Friday and Saturday to inspect the
municipal heating plant now in operation
in that city.
While the above is the conclusion
arrived at by the members of the com
mittee, the establishment of such a
plant in New Ulm is still in an embryonic
state and probably will be for some time
to come because of the many things to
be considered and the different angles
from which the establishment of the
plant might be viewed from the stand
point of the taxpayer. One of the
apparently feasible schemes to aid in
having the plant established is advanced
in the plan whereby the merchants in
the centrally located business district
advance the money for the building of
the plant, the laying of the mains, etc.,
and then only pay the city a certain
stipulated price for a certain amount of
the exhaust steam which now is a total
waste and loss. This plan is proposed
for several reasons, the mam one being
that in the event of the city itself build
ing the plant the taxpayers at large
would have to pay for it and only a
small proportion of them receive the
benefit because of the fact that there
would never be enough viaste steam to
suoplv more than just the business dis-
be confined to those who bring their
buildings up to certain requirements.
It is said by those who have familiar
ized themselves upon the subject that
the distribution of steam must be con
fined to a comparatively small area
adjacent to the sjteam plant, because the
farther away from the plant one goes the
greater will be the loss of heat.
One of the members of the committee
which made the trip to Brookings last
week, stated to a representative of the
Review that the Brookings plant has
proven itself an unqualified success
during the three years it has been in
operation. The city at large this case
built the plant and the merchants and
private citizens are paying for their heat
the same as do residents of this city for
their gas, water and electric light. Every
thing is on the meter system and the
customer pays for only the amount of
heat actually used. He said: "The
people of this city under the present
heating systems, be they hot water, hot
air or steam, open the windows when the
room gets too hot and in that way waste
a lot of fuel and heat. If they had the
business house or residence connected
with the central plant and were paying
for heat by the foot instead of by the ton,
they would be apt to be more careful and
only turn on the heat when actually
necessary and desired."
The* visitors to Brookings state that
some of the buildings in the business
district of that city have been refused
connection with the municipal plant be
cause their buildings do not come up to
certain requirements specified the
ordinance. Most of the merchants are
connected up, however, and these were
not backward in expressing their ap
proval of the municiapl plant. They
claim that the heat does not cost them
any more than formerly did the fuel their
furnaces consumed, and they are glad
and willing to pay over to the city the
price of their former fuel bill because they
are now rid of all the worries about heat.
No janitor is necessary in many of the
business houses where he was constantly
busy in former days. The dirt and dust
incident to the handling of the coal and
ashes also is. done away with, thus in
reality being a cash saving over the old
system of heating.
Supt. Mueller of the city waterworks
accompanied the committee on the trip
to the Dakota city and was of much as
sistance to them, because the heating:
plant if established in this city would
come under his supervision. The com
mittee took copious notes during their
stay in Brookings and as soon as this
data has been worked out into present
able form, it will be submitted to the,
Comm^ial CTuXand later to the
councfl.
4-
fc
'-3,
a
*5H
