THE BARRE DAILY TIME
VOL.' .XIX NO. 291.
HAHKK, VEHMOXT, WEDNESDAY, FKIIKUAUY ..), 1910.
rJUCK. OXK CKXT.
DRIVE
irrno
IA La La LV
V IXLLI O
GOING
Germans Offensive Over 10
; Mile Front Caused French
to Evacuate Town of Sau-
mont, and Gains Were
Made in Other Sections of
Western Front
3,000 PRISONERS
TAKEN BY GERMANS
The French Claim That by
Counter - Attack They
Were Able to Retake the
Greater Part of Forest of
Causes Fighting of
Great Violence Is in Prog
ress
Berlin, via London, Feb. 23. An
nouncement of another important gain in
the offensive on the western front was
made by the war office this afternoon.
The statement says that in upper Alsace
the Germans captured a position 700
yards wide and 400 yards deep. The war
office also announced that the German
forces had penetrated the opposing lines
for a distance of about two miles in the
northern sector of Woevre. It is said
i that the allies lost more than 3,000 pris
' oners and great quantities of material.
Paris, via London, Feb. 23. Fighting
'of great violence is in progress from the
right bank of the Me use to a point south
east of Herbe forest, the war office an
nounced to-day. North of Verdun there
were infantry actions on a front of 10
miles. East of Seppois, the French were
enabled by counter-attack to retake a
great portion of the forest of Causes,
north of Beumont. , The war office ad
mits the evacuation of - the village of
Saumont by the French but declares they
will hold the approaches to the village.
was threshed out at considerable length
in the House of Ixirda yesterday after
noon. Hnron Sydenham and Huron Here-
ford made, the principal appeal fur a i
stricter blockade, while the marquis or
IjuiHilowiio and Jlttrou Buckiiiaatcr de
fended the government. It wan Huron
Hereford' maiden speech in the House
of Lord and his plea was spirited and
epigrammatic, contrasting notably with
tlio ordinary sombre, ultra digniticd do
bate of the upper House,
WOULD HURT
NEW ENGLAND
CZAR NICHOLAS
APPEARS IN DUMA
To Sever the Rail and Water
Service of the New
Haven Railroad
In a speech opening the Russian Duma,
-Foreign Minister Sazonoff inailo striking
I -tatements regarding Russia's attitude
.toward (Sweden and that of Rumania to-
Vard the two groups of belligerents. Rus
, sia, he declared, is not impelled toward
I the eoast of Scandinavia and her senti
j ment toward the Swedes is one of sin
, cerest friendship. She was looking for
an outlet to the sea in quite anotheivdiree-tion.
As to Rumania, the foreign miniMter
intimated that inMue time she would be
found on the side of the entente allies
and would fijul real support in defending
herself against the attempts of the com
mon enemy to interfere with independ
ence decisions.
Pctrograd announces continued pursuit
ot the remnants of the Turkish army,
ii 1. if i -.i 11 A i . Mirun nullum nir vuii; iiiin-iii. 11c bhi i
which fled from Krzerum with the taking f, ... , , . ,,
. uiil i. r -.. that the food problem and the question
of the stronghold by the Rusians. -News- . . ,. M
Broke All Precedent in Russia and Gave
Recognition to the Legislative
Branch of the Government
Event Hailed as Impor
tant Happening.
lVtrogrud, via Iondon, Feb. 2.1. The
presence of Kniperor Nicholas at the (
opciiinir ot the Duma, yesterday was i
hailed by the press and public us one
of the most important events in the po
litical history of Russia. It is pointed
out that the appearance of the emperor
in the House has emphasized in the most
striking manner the increasing disposi
tion of the government and people- to
lay aside internal politics and devote all
their energies to a concerted effort to
bring the war to a (successful issue.
The event is alluded to by prominent
members of the Duma as "the beginning
f a new era" and likened, in its far
reaching significance to the emancipa-
ion ot the serfs and the manifesto of
1 !X5.
This was thn first time that a I'us-
ian emperor had ever visited the legisla
te body or in this formal way had rec
ognized it as one of the parts of the gov
ernment. It Jiears on the importance of
the political crisis through which Rus
sia has been passing. IVitics of the gov
ernment have protested that since the
last adjournment of the Duma the gov
ernment has not shown any increased
tendency to reflect the desires of the
populace or yield to the demands for in
ternal reform and that a successful prose
cution of the war was impossible without j
some real understanding between the
government and the Duma.
The emperors presence yesterday is
taken as a token of a new union of the
government and the popular representa-
ves toward which the liberal and pro
gressive elements in the Duma have been
tnving, and will it is thought, relieve
the tension and suspense which has ex
isted since the adjournment of the House.
The session of the Duma was opened
as usual with a half hour's prayer. The
emperor entered the chamber promptly
at 2 o'clock and during the religious cere
mony stood under the holy picture of
Nicholas "the wonder worker."
About noon the news that the Duma
was to receive a visit from the emperor,
was flashed through the chamber, but the
only preparation which indicated that
an event unprecedented in the annuals
of the Duma was to take place was a
atripj of bright carpet which had been
laid in the hall and the appearance of
the golden book which is only brought
out to record the names of distinguished
visitors. Many of the deputies, who re
turned from the front to resume their
legislative duties still wore field uni
forms. The new premier, Boris V. Stunner,
who succeeded M. Goremykin in that of
fice, made his first address. He declared
that although Russia did not minimize
the seriousness of the situation in the
Duma and the sacrifices which she was
compelled to make, both the government
and the Duma were resolved that peace
would not be made' until Russia hud
gained, in conjunction with her allies, a
decisive victory over the enemy.
KtiBsia had hardly begun the work of
internal reorganization," said M. Stormy,
when the war interfered. But even in
war time this work must go . on. Rus
sia's better future is coming, nothing can
disturb our faith in that. In the name
of this future, we will not close our eyes
to our mistakes and shortcomings and
we must unite our forces. A new page
in Russian history is being opened."
The premier then spoke of the necessi-1
ty of reforms to meet the new economic
conditions and of giving the people a
greater hand in the government. He said
DECLARED ELLIOTT
AT BOSTON HEARING
President of the Railroad
Testified Before Interstate
Commerce Commission
Boston, Feb. 2.1. Howard Klliott, pres
ident of the New Haven railroad, testi
fying to-day at the hearing of the in
terstate commerce commission on the
company s application to retain control
of witter routes under the Panama act
declared that any severanre of rail and
water service, in his opinion, would se
riously hurt the transportation facilities
of all the New England states.
Representatives of a number of busi
ness and manufacturing concerns ap
peared in support of the application.
MISSING GIRL CAME
HOME TO ATTEND
MOTHER'S FUNERAL
Geraldina Morrison, 17, Who Left St,
Johnsbury Mysteriously Fire Weeks
Ago, Hu Been Employed at a
Domestic at Weston, Mass.
St. Johnsbury. Feb. 23. Geraldine
Morrison, the 17-year-old school girl
whose mysterious disappearance five
weeks ago'ls said to be in part the cause
of her mothers death last Sunday, rt
turned borne yesterday afternoon, She
learned Monday through the newspapers
of her mother's death and telegraphed
from Weston, Mass., that she was com
ina
The funeral, set for 2 o'clock, was
postponed until after the arrival of the
Boston train and the girl joined the
mourners. A curious crowd was at the
station but her brother, Samuel Morri
son, succeeded in getting her Into a closed
carriage and few saw her. In less than
an hour she was following her mother's
body to the cemetery. The girl says she
has been employed as a domestic in Wes
ton. . ,
BIG K. OF C. EVENT
Held at
Rutland When 96 Took the
Fourth Degree.
Rutland, Feb. 23. Culminating in one
of the prettiest sot i ll affairs seen in
this city for a long time, the grand
ball at the Colonial hall, the first fourth
degree meeting of the Knights of Colum
bus of crmont in this city was a great
success. I lie events of the day included
the exemplification of the degree on a
large class of candidates at St. Peter's
hall in the afternoon, a banquet for
fourth degree members at the Bardwell
in the evening and the ball at Colonial
hall.
About 100 knights from councils
throughout the state were present, in
cluding State Deputy Charles E. Mann of
Brattleboro ami other state officers.
Every council in the state was represent
ed and the gathering included practically
all the Catholic clergy of the state.
The fourth degree was exemplified
upon a class of 93 candidates at the
working in St. Peter's hall. Of these, 3!)
were from Rutland council, 12 from Bel
lows Falls, eight from Hardwick, 17 from
Fair Haven, five from Montpelier, seven
from St. Albans, two from St. Johns
bury, three from Brattleboro and one
each from Burlington, Fort Edward, X.
V., and Orono, Me.
The working was in charge of Dr. John
T. Rudden of Bellows Falls, master of
the degree for the Vermont district, as
sisted bv the following degree team:
P. F. Howley of , Rutland, Rev. P. .T. Bar
rett of Poultney, M. G. Leary, Thomas
Magner and Edward J. Corley of Bur
lington, Rev. D. J. O'Sullivan of St. Al-
j Imns, Rev. R. J. Carroll of Bennington,
.1. C. Hennessey and E. J. Howard of
Bellows Falls. George F. Grey of Rut
land and Dr. J. B. Duffy of Keene, X. II.
BANKERS AT ST. JOHNSBURY.
Seventh Annual Convention, Was Held
Yesterday. J
St. Johnsbury, Feb. 23. The seventh
annual convention of the Vermont State
Bankers association was held here ye-
PERHAPSSMOKE
HID SIGNALS
Is One Theory Advanced for
the Train Wreck at
Milford, Conn,
LIST OF THE DEAD
REMAINS AT TEN
But One of the Sixty Injured
Is in a Critical
Condition
New Haven, Conn.. Feb. 23. The death
ist as the result of the rear-end collision
of two passenger trains on the New York,
New Haven Si Hartford railroad at Mil
ord stood at ten this morning. Of the
inure than three score injured only one
was in a critical condition.
The list of the dead follows: William
R. Curtis, engineer of the rear train; Ed-
a I.. r f .T.--..I.... .1 -t H...I.
ru..y win n. ,crr...,. , , . ju. , . M(!(,ulnnL, ,.,. of th. rear
fin v a . . .......
t. . i. a- j ..!... - mi...
, ... , , train; Ueorge U. louitellette, nagman oi
program included trip through the f . of
fa?,? ' n T '"Vroton, a traveling salesman, Susan B.
at 4:30, the convention was called to or-I an offl
iri iu me Jiuinruiu, 4 to v. .n. n 1 cva
CLOTHES LINES DENUDED
, eea here; Patrick Connon of New York,
P. Grant, pastor of St. Andrew's Episco
pal church, delivered the invocation.
Judge Walter P. Smith of St. Johnsbury
extended the welcome to visiting bank
ers and the response was by II. L. Ward,
: t . .. c u. 1 : . - 1
., ' 11, t a 1 -j 4 n.if whom is thought to be Madiros Der
the annual address of the president, the ,,.. . " , , . . .
. . u it- 1 i 1 . , IHovhannassian, a dealer in precious
who died at the hospital; Joseph J. Frye,
a Pullman porter on the forward train,
who died at the hospital; Harry Schappa
of .New Haven, who died at the hospital
j from scalds; two unidentified men, one
And Two Young Men Alleged to Have
Confessed.
Clothes line theft curried on along
systematic, line were uncovered by the
Mlice to-day when confessions alleged to
have been made by two River street
young men, Clyde Iforet and Henry
I Mower, led the officers over a devious
trail of wash and laundry clues, (her a
large area in North Barre the oiierstions
of some thieve extended and disclosures
aid to have been made to day have re
sulted already in the restoration of much
property. J-.vcr sine a number of line
on Thurston tduet were striniied 011
night in mid-January the police hav
been working on a number of clues, thei
investigations terminating last nigh
when lAforest and Ia flower were r
rested on grand larceny charges preferrei
against them by Grand Juror William
W isliurt.
(Hllcer John C. Murlcv made the ar
rest and he was assisted in the investi
gation by Officer Harry Gamble and Of
leer John v '. Dinecn. When first ones
tioned at police headquarter Ea forest
and Ijiflowcr denied any knowledge of
the thefM. Their change of heart, how
ever, came after a sharp nuiis and tho
disclosure followed. Sheets and pillow
cases, bath towels, tattlecloths, white
waists, skirts, suits, muslin aprons, etc
to the value of ?.K) were found in the
house of John Ablv on Branch street
to-day, and identified as property taken
n one haul from a labyrinth of lines at
the borne of Duncan McMillan of Thurs
ton place. Good belonging to Mrs. John
iuttura of First street and to a family
named Lotti on Beckley street also- fig
red in the alleged confessions.
Ea flower and Laforest are said to lie
thoroughly penitent. They will lie ar
raigned before Magistrate 11. W. Scott in
city court this evening.
10-CENT FARE
PART OF YEAR
Proposed by Barre & Mont
pelier Traction & Power
Co. to Barre "Council
reports of C. S. Welieter of Bennington,
secretary, and D. L. Wells , of Orwell,
treasurer, were read. The principal ad
dress of the afternoon was delivered by
F. C. Williams of Newport, state bank
commissioner.
A banquet to the bankers was served
at the Avenue house at 7:30. Rev. Paul
D. Moody, pastor of the South Congrega
tional church, was the toastmaster, and
the speakers were Curl Lehmann, and
Charles C. Grilley of Boston, Arthur F.
Stone, Dr. C. A. Cramton and W. J. Bige
low of St. Johnsbury. Music was fur
nished by the St. Johnsbury academy
quartet. . -
1 he following officers were elected: H.
G. Woodruff, Barre, president; A. H.
Chandler, Bellows Falls, vice president;
C. S. Webster, Barton, secretary; G. 1
stones, and the other railroad fireman
named Werner.
A preliminary investigation into the
cause of the wreck was opened this morn
ing of Coroner Mix, w-ith Chief Inspec
tor Trumbull of the public utilities com
mission sitting with him. The latter
body will probably open a formal in
quiry to-morrow, and it also has been
announced that a federal probe will be
started soon.
The tracks at the scene of the wreck,
half a mile eat of the Milford station,
were fairly well cleaned up this morning,
but a heavy fog hindered the work and
delayed traffic 011 the line in both direc
tions. The chief object of the official inquiry
will be to determine how It happened
that two trains got into the same block
ENLISTED TWICE IN CIVIL WAR
Wells. Orwell, treasurer; G. E. Woods, !lu" V ' v ir V
BURTON ANNOUNCES
HIS CANDIDACY
Former Senator from Ohio Will Seek the
Republican Presidential
Nomination.
Columbus, O., Feb. 23, Former United
States Senator Theodore E. Burton of
St. Johnsbury, H. II. Webster, Penning
ton, Key. A. Uean.
council; H. M. McFarland, Hytie Park,
vice president American Bankers asso
ciation; F. M. Corry, Montpelier, vice
president Xational Bankers' aasot iatfcm;
C. W. Ruiter, St. Johnsbury, member of
nominating committee; J. E. fcCarteri,
Newport, alternate, v
LARGE CLASS OF CANDIDATES.
Orleans. executive 1 T y T .
theory advanced to-day was that the sig
uals were obscured by amoke from the
passing freight train - and the engineer
failed to see the train ahead until too
late to prevent the crash.
While the roadbed wa not torn up,
it was literally covered with the ruins
of the engine and freight cars. Heavy
iron bars were twisted like wire and
steel frames of the rear coach of the ex
press were ripped apart. The rear coach
of the express, split wide open, was
thrown across the moving freight, crush-
Was Initiated by "Dokies" at Lyndon
ville Assembly.
Lvndonville. Feb. 23. Suadah temple,
140, D. O. K. K.. assembled in Music hall ijng these cars partly down and then fall-
last night for the purpose of initiating , ing over the eastbound tracks. Caught
a large class of candidates. Those seek
mg membership in this order were gath
ered from many places.
The meeting was called to order fly
Henry C. Iawson, royal vizier, of Mont
pelier, at 8 o'clock, and the initiatory
work was conducted bv the following de
gree team, from Montpelier and Barre:
. If. Dutliie, roval vizier, C."I. Converse,
grand emir; C. D. Swasey, sheik; H. C.
I.add, mahedi; John Wallace, secretary;
under it were the bodies of Miss Susan
R. Hiland of New Haven and of the
man believed to be Madiros Der. Hov
hannassian, a graduate student at Yale.
Late in the afternoon this car was raised
sufficiently to permit the removal of the
bodies and they were taken to a morgue
here.
One Pullman coach narrowly escaped
a plunge down the embankment with its
passengers. The second coach from the
W. H. Haviland, Who Died To-day, Served
in Vermont and Massachusetts Troops.
William II. Haviland, a veteran of the
Civil war, passed away at his home, 20
Highland avenue, this morning at 4:43
o'clock, the end following a long illness.
Mr. Haviland was born in Stafford, N. Y.,
March 19, 1847. As a young man he en
listed in the Civil war, serving one. term
with the loth Vermont regiment in Com
pany B and enlisting a second time in
Company D, first Massachusetts cavalry.
At the close of the war he received an
honorable discjiarge.
His marriage to Miss Hittie W, Lane
took place in Danville Aug. 23, WS. The
family moved to Barre in 1885. Mr.
Haviland was long employed as a granite
polisher and belonged to the polisher's
union. He was a member ot K. 1$. Cran-
dall post. No. 56, G. A. R., and an adhe
rent of the Congregational church. Be
sides hi wife he is survived by a daugh
ter, Miss Ida Haviland.
Funeral services will be held at the
house Friday afternoon at 2 o'clock.
Members of the family request that
friends omit flowers,'
NEWARRANGEMENT
OF CAR SCHEDULE
Same Proposition Has Been
Made to Berlin and
Montpelier
V
FUNERAL OF RICHARD CIARDI
Cleveland to-day filed with the secretary Raph and William Mercer, escorts;
r . . . . e 1 . 11.1 1 1
James Maekay, treasurer; J. ' N. Gall, rear, it was jammed with its forward end
satrap: W. II. Farrar. sahib; R, 8. (lir- hard against one of the standards sup-
rier, mokanna; J. Ward Carver, joc; X. porting the catenary system of the road
of state a formal announcement that he
will be a candidate for the Republican
nomination for president of the United
States.
F. E. Robinson, master of ceremonies.
Following the work a banquet was
In this manner it hung on the edge of
the bank.
Not a coach of the express escaped
nghold by
paper dispatches report the Turks are
evacuating Trebizond on the Black sea
-oast, toward which city, however, an
other body of Turks from Erzemm is
said to' be retreating. The Russians are
making efforts to cut off this force.
The German offensive on the western
front is again commanding attention, its
renewed outbreak having resulted in
what look to be important' breaches in
the French lines in Artois while efforts
to push back the French lines near Ver-
omit also had some measure of success.
There is increasing activity along the
front in Russia, but the operations for
the most part are confined to artillery
battles and outpost engagements.
of freeing the country from German in
fluence ought to command special atten
tion.
ITALIANS MAKE GAIN.
Now
are Almost Within Striking Dis
tance of Trent.
ACCUSED OF EMBEZZLING.
John P. Shouldice Was Arrested at Rut
land Yesterday.
' Rutland, Feb. 23. On a warrant issued
by State's Attorney C. V. Poulin, Depu
ty Sheriff Pascal Ricei yesterday arrest
ed John P. Shouldice, who was at work
ONE MAN IS TO
DIRECT BLOCKADE
OF GERMANY
Lord Robert Cecil Slated to Become New
British Cabinet Minster with
Great Powers.
London, Feb. 23. The government,
London, Feb. 23. The Italians, after in tl,e cutting department of tho Ver
weeks of hammering at the Austrian po- imont Marble company at Proctor on a
sitions with their big guns, have cap- 'charge of embezzlement,
tured the mountainous region of ( alio 1 14 is claimed by the state that Shoul
(Collo) in the Sugana valley and also dice, who is 27 years old, collected $05.33
have occupied the towns of Roncegno and wmle acimg as ageni 01 tne Mnger sew
served to about 200 persons. Grand VI-! injury, the forward cars being jammed
zier Itwson and Secretary F. E. Austin together, the windows smashed, and
of Barre, were present for the meeting showing the terrific force of the impact
and with tV. P. French, votary, of St. The baggage car of the local was torn
Johnsbury, H. A. Squires and W. C Har-1 from its side. The rear coaches were not
vey of Lyndonvillc, were in charge of the ; seriously damaged and were hauled away
arrangements for the meeting.
TWO COUNTS DISMISSED.
Thomas Mott Osborne Wins Part of the
Battle.
Poughkeepsie, N. Y., Feb. 23. Supreme
Court Justice Morsehauser last night
handed down a decision on the motion
made by counsel for Thomas Mott Os
borne, former warden of Sing Sing pns
soon after by a wrecking train.
A PATRIOTIC CELEBRATION.
Ki"innlii
By their new acquisition of terrain the!01'?. trom purchasers ot machines, and
Italians now are almo-t within striking money he has failed to turn in to the
distance of one of their chief objectives company's office.
of the war the city of Trent which
lies, protected on the north, east and LIVERYMAN SUES GARAGE MAN.
south, by a line of forts, 15 miles west j
of the captured region.
ing Machine company with offices in this 011. argued before him Monday to dismiss
ELOPER WANTS DIVORCE.
Vermont Woman Ran Away with New
Hampshire Man in 1911.
Xorthfield, N. II., Feb. 23. Smith B.
Waite of Hyde Park, Vt., clerk of courts,
" t a j: itie aueses mat ine ueienoants w 11 e r .-t i...i..i..u t- :
throua 1 the marquis ot Lansriowne, an-- , J , ,11 Ar v no- an automobile at the rste of 'til t 2t
r T tiT-a nn PurlAff llurn'iipd u-nll LnnU'n .11111111; all a II H UllUIJIItr m t Hit- mie tl .HI l.,ir nna if !io fftm m ISaUHtiiri nf nrib
.....ail id tl, HnilHf mt Iinla luat. I " ' , -i 1 4 1 ,1 n. . ' '1' v,v ,,
Bii.ii.i... -1 iiiiiit-aau ihmii.ibii iiik, iiib BiiiKV 1 nr i e
night that it bad been decided to turn
... .. all inn Itnr. (lll,l.'t .1 .u-ili 1 llA
W.-.L-..1- ..f i:.rm.nc o ,nn who visiting in Vermont, met a
young man
In fkrKilir IUI1 Ttitwaril u-lin nil
ml eloped with -",,F,in 1 B,m u V prTn
i.- i ij- r. i a, euiri. are bumm mr tne ucicni anifi. i e
would rank a. a full -Meed cabinet min- j "1' Z S P-P-s are from the office of R. C. Bacon.
ister. It is understood mat tne new post - ..... .. ',- . VT . . V" - I while 11. (. and F. E. Barber are counsel
w ill go to Lord Robert t ecil, who, since ""'"' """
the formation of the coalition govern- ; b-vT Tt- "a'rd, allege,
ment, h.s been under secretary for for- j ''f.on. The couple have a four-rear-
affair.. Ha w ill retain this Dost, t ",u
indictments found against him in West
chester county for alleged neglect of
duty while warden and for perjury. Jus
tice Morsehauser struck out two counts
in the indictment for neglect of duty,
one of which was on the allegation of
not attending regularly at prison and the
other for alleged violation of prison reg
ulations. The other four counts of this
indictment stand. The court also over
ruled a demurrer to the neglect of duty
indictment.
t . : . . .1 .... : .. i 4i .
injuries to himself and horse and dam-. to ;.; !, perfury indictment, which
age to a sulky in an accident last April. ,..,... the defendant with havinir trans-
Died-
prison-
Icorner of Elm and Flat street. K. E. "
Wants $3,000 Because His Team Was
Hit by Automobile.
Brattleboro, Feb. 23 Suit was filed to
day by Frank A. Larrow, liveryman,
against Paul D. Cobb and George Mar-
tell, garage men, to recover 3,l0 for i
CLAIMS INJURY BY BULL.
eign
joining the cabinet, as blockade minis
ter. . The new minister will be charged with
hhe administration of the order in coun
Few of Hayward's friends in this sec
tion knew of his marriage.
for the defendants.
Hattie E. Moses Sues James K. Howe of
Tunbridge.
Burlington, Feb, 23. The February
term of I'nited States court for this dis
trict was opened at the federal building
Falls Youth Was Lucky to m this city yesterday. The proelama-
. 1 1 . . . 1 k. . . . T . .
Escaoe Death inon wss reaa nj i mi-u i-in jjcpuiy
TOSSED BY LOCOMOTIVE.
Bellows Falls Youth Was Lucky
Various Organizations Joined in Observ
ance of Washington's Birthday.
Washington's birthday was appropri
ately observed in the Worthen block ball
yesterday when the women of Col. J. B.
Mead circle. No. 1, and the women of the
Sona of Veterans' auxiliary entertained
the Sons of Veterans of Major E. A. Ab
bott camp and veterans of the Civil war
who are connected with R. B. .Crandall
post. No. fifi, G. A. R. At noon more
than 100 persons partook of a substan
tial dinner served by the women. At
tractive decorations were used in the
hall and the dinner proved to be a very
enjoyable feature of the get-together.
In the afternoon music, recitations and
speechmaking figured in an entertaining
patriotic program. A sextet from Cobble
hill and vicinity, members of which have
gained local fame for themselves in the
grange, gave a number of concert and
solo selections. Those who sang were
Misses Haiel and Helene Hack, James
Miller, Robert Bassett and Mr. and Mrs.
Frank Northrop. Miss Hazel Gauthier
and Osmond Iodge contributed recita
tions, I,awrence Gauthier gave a violin
solo and there were readings by Mrs.
Abl.ie Wilier, Mrs. L. H. Thurston. Mrs.
Frank Northrop. txs. Pearl Bouley and
Mrs. E. A. Carey. A. W. Robinson, state
commander of the Sons of Veteran, de
livered an address, ami more informal
speeches, most of them of an apprecia
tive character, were given by some of the
veterans.
Held Yesterday Afternoon Analysis Re
vealed White Arsenic in Stomach.
The funeral of Richard Ciardi, a prom
inent member of the Italian colony in
Barre, whose death Saturday afternoon
was traced to a poisonous potion which
he took in the morning, was held at his
home,. 7 Granite, street, Tuesday after
noon at 2 o'clock. There was a large
gathermg of friends and business asso
ciates as well as many members of the
retail clerks' union and the Socialist
party, in which organizations Mr. Ciardi
was active, j lie bearers were: N. Pale
doro, N. Bergonetti, Simon Host, A. Saa-
sorossi, A. P. Ambrosini and Carlo Bru
setti. Many persons accompanied the re
mains to Hope cemetery and at the
graveside the Christofor Columba band
played a dirge, the musicians being led
by Prof. P. Gropelh.
Among the floral tributes were the
following: Wreath of roses and carna
tions, family; anchor of roses and carna
tions, Mr. and Mrs. Luigi Caporaletti;
wreath, Social club No. 2; carnations,
Italian local. Socialist party; wreath, re
tail clerks' union; carnations, English lo
cal, Socialist party; carnations and roses,
C. Abbiati and family; carnations, Mr.
and Mrs. A. P. Ambrosini of Northfield;
carnations, B. Abbiati and family; car
nations, C. Cardi and family; carnations,
R. A. Hoar; carnations, Cyrus Hall;
roses, S. L. Cardi.
Returns' from the state laboratory of
hygiene at Burlington, where the vital
organs of the man, removed at the au
topsy Sunday afternoon, were examined,
indicate that white arsenic was used by
Mr. Ciardi to end his life. It is reported
that the stomach and duodenum con
tained arsenic in the form commonly
known as white arsenic in such quanti
ties that it could not possibly have been
taken otherwise than with the full
knowledge of the victim. The authori
ties stated to-day that this report, to
gether with the note written bv Mr.
Ciardi, which was indited unquestionably
in his hand-writing, along with the cir
cumstances of ill health and adverse
business conditions, leave no doubt that
the case was one of intentional suicide.
A petition for the privilege of abroga
ing charter rights by a sweeping ch
in its interurban trolley service v Ab
sented before the city council ' reu-
ular fortnightly session las' ing by
the Barre 4, Montpelier Tris'.n & Pow
er company. In common with a number
of similar requests made by the'traction
people at one time or another in the past
year, the petition was carefully consid
ered and then laid on the table pending
developments. Nevertheless it was ac
corded a kindlier reception than most of
the overtures made along the same line
by the company and for the second time
within a few weeks a disposition wa
shown to recede a bit from the unliend-
ng position assumed when the traction
company made its initial assault on the
franchise agreement.
Having in mind the proximity of a
day when expenses must be lightened or
the revenue increased, the company re-
terated its story of hard times and big
interest accounts. Much of the informa-
ion which came out a few weeks ago
when A. B. Tenney and other officials of
the traction company met the council in
conference was rehearsed in the pream
ble, once granted that no program sug
gested for the increase of income seemed
feasible, the petition submitted that a
plan to reduce expenses would lie the
only alternative. Proceeding from this
conclusion, it laid before the city fathers
a detailed ehange'in service that may bo
summed up in part as follows.
A 10-cent intercity fare from April I
to Dec. 1; from 6 a. m. to 11:45 a. m.
and from 8 p. m. to 10 p. m. a car in
each direction to leave every 40 or 45
minutes, making two cars in operation;
from 11:45 a. m. to 8 p. m., three cars
operating instead of two and one car '
leaving every half hour; cars to alter
nate between - Washington and South
Main streets between 11:45 a. m. and 8
p. m.; considerably curtailed service on
branch lines, so called, until 11:45 a. m.
and after 8 p. m.; continuation of school
children fares.
The petitioners stated that duplicates
of tho petition wer being forwarded to
the Montpelier city council and the se
lectmen ot Berlin and suggested that the
three municipalities act in conjunction,
before Feb. 20, if possible, as the com
pany's officers are to meet the bond
holders on that date.
Alderman Keast, who has consistently
opposed any plan for the curtailment of
the service until the popular 10-cent fare
has been tried again as a means of creat
ing a revenue increase, thought the peti
tion unworthy of consideration and was
for dismissing it forthwith. He took a
decided stand against any abrogation of
the franchise. The mayor thought it
would be worth while to confer with the
Montpelier city council before taking ac
tion. Alderman Shurtleff was disposed
to be lenient with the traction company
and thought the council could advance
relief measures without inconveniencing -
the public. It was on the motion of Al
derman Bruce, seconded by Alderman
Glvsson, that action on the communica
tion was deferred.'
STORE IS CLOSED.
Granite City General Store, Whose Man
ager Recently Suicided.
Jhe Granite General store on Granite
street was closed last night. Attach
ments in favor of Armour A Co. and
Permits Granted.
Two building projects of more than
ordinary proportions were noted in a re
port submitted by Building Inspector
George Rand. The Presbrey-Coykendall
company asked permission to erect a
lOo-foot annex to its Gales meadow-
plant and Dr. II. Nelson Jackson applied
for a permit to erect a third story to
his business block on North Main street.
While stamping the application with his
approval, the inspector recommended
that the owner of the block be required
to connect the second and third stories
with a fire escape. Along with Batista
Pechinelli'g request for a permit to erect
a wagon shed at fldfl North Main street,
he permits wore granted and the rec
ommendations of the inspector were or
dered carried out.
The wiring inspector presented a bun
dle of applications from G. M. I.add. a
Worcester man, who owns most of the
houses on Ladd street in the north end,
Mr. Ladd appeared to lie asking for per
mits to wire the structures, but infor
mation which reached the council last
night indicated that the wiring had been
done already. The applications were
passed over, but the following permits
were issued: lfobnn A Denning, to wire
the Pavilion theatre for a moving picture
machine; to A. J. Stewart, to wire for
light at 03 Park str.-et; to C. A. Caron,
Johnston A Gamble, lisal liverymen, were ito wire for a Ureadmixer motor; to H. B.
served around closing time and the shut- J Sanborn, to wire a new double tenement
ters were drawn this morning. Attorney j
E. R. Davis acted for his clients. John-
house at 26-2S WeWer street.
More Hydrant Protection Asked.
Gale's meadow granite manufacturers
Marshal Thomas Reeves, the clerk. F. S. veterans. K.arlv in the week, following the death
The North Barre I). C. V. club takes IVUows Falls, reb. 23. harles Tidd. 'Piatt of Rutland, being present. Very I or tlie evening prop-ram uancing was j lf M,n!r Kit-hard Hardi. the store
ril regulating the blockade, as well as nreptions to the Boston Globe's report : ?el 13, son of Mrs. Nellie Tidd of 22, soon afterwards court was adjourned on,the main diversion. Thirty-five peraons ; orPn, under the direction of Jsmes J.
responsibility lor tbe general policy ana of its basketball game with M tMxIaville I est sireei. was wsiKing on the track a written order ot .imuje nowe until ten , enjojru aupprr i n nan. ine com- j jn.
ston & Gamble, it being the allegation
Oial a m annrnanlitni, AJlKl i ,tllA t lilll
" "I I ' l" r . - I . - ....; .l .,..
for furnishing delivery rigs for the store. -' , .
J. Ward Carver acted for Armour A Co. "re P'ing to get it if the favorable atti-
Itnle assume! nv ine council carries any
practice of the government with respect
DEATH OF YOUNG BOY.
Sick Ttree Weeks.
at Woorfaville at Wells River Mondavi of the Boton 4 Maine railroad alsiut .'o'clock this moraine, w hen the firt esse mitte representing the Mead circle con-
to trade passing into or from neutral night and asks The Time to state thatj3:4 yesterday atternoon when he was,wa taken up. 1 he cae isthatof Hattie itei oi .vrs. r. .A. oe. Mrs. rrelj
countries. ,tbe score was 27 to 14. intr.vl of 47 to; struck hy the locomotive of a passenger E. Moses aramst Jamee K. Howe of Tun- I neck ley ann .vira. i.iinan I hi.-harme. j
U-rd Robert Cecil is a lawyer of widely, as originally reported. The Barre train while getting out of the way of a (bridge. The plaintiff sets up that she, while Mr. Blanche Nmirwe, Mrs. Carrie s warj Robert Dale, Aged 5, Had Beta
cxperiem-e and a young man, as members ftlayer were outweighed to a man, it is j freight train, lie was taken to the was injured by a vm ioiis bull o ne.1 by l.authier anil .Mrs. r.. K. I erry acted for (
of the tirnisn caoinet go. in tlie toreuin stated, altnoueh in camene they were I Kw kingiam nospnai. where it was found tne netennani ai irju-n. me iiinr- mr lunnui. i punneq to noi i n
ofTwe he has been intimately eoncemetl the equal of their opponent. Arrange-(lie had sustained a fractured bone in the.ncrs for te plaintifl' are Wallace Batch
with the l.kxkad operations particular- ment are being made f.r a game wita:lrft leg aliove rt,e knee. 'eld-r and Ihmm-tt A Shield, and Stan
ly in their relation to the complicated Williamstown t be played in the Church j ' ley t WiJ.n arrr for tbe defendant.
matter touching belligerent and neutral street gymnasium next week and a cn- j Mr. and Mrs. A. P. Ambrwini returned .lude Harland It. Howe pre,dd to-,lr
ruriits. Hi elevation to the cabinet will tet with Iktbel is on tne pr i-ram for 'to t'eir Ix.me in Nort'.f'eM t! is morn- and t'nite-l afe Marshal Arthtir P.
pue the ir.Kfiit another rpreent- the cornine week, l'u t'le ettnng of inf. after baring bw a'!e-l t I Wine
te in tte eoahtwm council. Man li 3, lietliel will play the D. C V. is by the death of !: h rd ( lardi, w ine
IL U.de ute. a t th Uotkada Barre, . fuceraj a ixJl jeetcidaf.
Carpenter of Brattt- t-ro and F. H. t f
man of Rutland, t fJr d. puty, will b
freai-Kt,
econd get-topether of the allied patriot ! Edward Robert, son of. Mr. an.T Mr.
ie orrniration April 9. the anniversary ' NVhoIa Iale of 3 Aver street, died at
of Appomattox. " to --day after three ilt' illness
j with pneumonia. The boy wa the yrsrs
David Gaime. who ha iien ii.,t.nr cf av-e. There i ne t.th-r chill in tKe
weight. Their petition aks for two hy
drants and the suht it ut ion of an eight -inch
water main for the four-in.-h mam
now in ue. The iietition was signed be
the Prehrey-('oyken lall company. th
Dewev Column A Cutting company. Mr
rion A O'ljeary. Marr A (tordon and Hoyt
A Ijrbnurveau. It devt doped Uat tin
enfiaeer has been ked to e-fimate the
cost of improving tSe main and the mat-t.-r
wa referred to the fire and water
fommttee with in-tru ti-ms to brine m
an est nut' from the nty engineer.
"vo-Bt.- action was taken on a prt-
relsttse in the cite, re turned t M wrai. ' famdy. Irere. nfe, year. Hear jj. t n.-,gtte '-uj-rinfen Vrt f. O.
n to W,M..r. where tie is eirplr-ved a ranjrerrenW for the fiiu-ra! have n..t b-rn
sv Bjacln,. 'ctti
(OootiEueJ ca (ourttx psga-l ,J X
