VOLUME XXXI. LAURENS, SOUTH CAROLINA, WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 23,1916.
L[GISLATIV[ SESSION
[ND[D SINDAY DAWN
Session Marked by Real
Accomplishments
PROIIBITION LAW
MORE STRINGENT
Five Adinistration Measures Placed
Upon the Books are Numhered as
Construetive 3Measures, tieing in the
Interest of Laboring ('lasses and
Small Farmers.
'Columbia, Feb. 20.--In the General
Assembly, which adjourned without
date at 5:35 o'clock this morning,
there were three features: Prohibition,
politics and passionless legislation.
Prohibition was probably predominant.
Whatever the prohibitionists wanted
they secured, and it was altogether
without what might be called "the
steam roller process." As is expressed
in politics, "they just had the votes,"
and whether prohibition Is a success
or a failure there cannot be any charge
that the friends of this system of hand
ling the liquor 'trafllc lacked for sym
pathy. The essential accomplishments
in the line of prohibition were, first,
the granting of authority to use so
much as $50,000 for the enforcement
of the prohibition laws. Second, the
making of the violation of the laws a
chain gang offense. Third, the reduc
tion of the allowance for personal con
sumption during any one month from
one gallon to half that quantity.
Fourth, the application of every known
and conceivable method of prohibiting
the sale, storage or transportation of
liquor, except in two-quart quantities.
Fifth, the re-enactment of every prohi
bition statute that could be found in
th6 records under the Ratification Act.
The only measure that was advocated
by the prohibitionists in the Senate
and which failed in the House was
the Carlisle bill, which sought to pro
hibit newspapers from advertising
liquors in South Carolina and then
the house insisted, and secured a more
liberal allowance of real beer for per
sonal consumption under the two
quart a month statute.
Prohibition is a political as well as
an economic issue in this State. It is
regarded today as extremely popu
lar in South Carolina. It is a political
balloon at this time, and is going to
be used during the coming summer
for all it. is worth. 'T'hen the 2-cent
rate bill, which died in the Senate,
was another of the several campaign
i4oiposition's utilized on the Ilouse
side.
Perhaps the most distinguishing fea
ture of this session of the General As
sembly was the itter lack of passion.
In by-gone days the line of demar
cation between Tillmanites and Anti
Tillmanites was very sharp. Then
came the line between the dlspensary
and anti-dispensary advocates, and l
more recently the adlvocacy of Glov
eirnor Bilease and his policeos nas~ an
acute issue. Qnce or twice there was
a slight symptom of an effort to mn
jecl partisanl politics, lint it was a
coinpletec failuire, and t here h, nothi ing
that war done at this 'e:rion of thle
General Assily t hat hearis any of
the ear imarks of partkioshitp.
Quite triue, policies t wer~e advoe
(Pted1 by Gloveirnor M an n i we'":a T
t'ept ed, hti they were accc' ited on thiei r
merit, rat her thia'n as polit1ical fac
tors, andl ini most cases, such as on
lie conceilhat ion hll , there was entIire'
uinanljnit y. in other cn'es, as on the
Workingman's Comensat ion Act,
uirged and advocated'( by thle governor,
theire was cnt ire failure, and1( it was
not even biroughtup for dliscuisslon.
Most of the ivrk accompilished at
this sessioii was rallier in the natlure
pf c'ompiilellug last year's conistruictive
uindert akin gs; Ihat is, (lie tax (cmiiiiIs
slon law now in effect was si rengthi
cned In thle opin ion of its friends lby a
provislo foi' a hoard of review, whIch
is to aet as a Su preme Court in moat
ters of taxat ion. Th'len the Tor'rens
. system, whlch passedl the 11ouse last
year, wvas enacetedi info law, This sys
temi for the piresenit is mad~e optional,
but it is thought that it. will lhe so ap
pealing to pieople that they will vol
unarily accepit. the protection and(
economy that the system is expected to
afford. The McCullough child labor
'legislation, also advocated by Govern
fi' f1anning, was also enacted into
law. This iq a striking illustration of
(Continueod on Page Four.)
CIVIC SPECIALIST
TO MAKE ADDRESSES
3iss 3Baud -an Buren to Spend Three
Da.ys iI the City in the Interest of
Civic Improvement.
Through the efforts of the Wednes
day Club, one of the local social and
literary organizations, Miss Maud van
Buren, a specialist in the work of civic
improvement societies, has been se
eured to make a series of live lectures
in this city beginning Thursday night.
All of the lectures are free. The first
lecture will be given in the court
house at 8 o'clock Thu rsday night,
when her subject will be "Your Town
and Its Imiprovemenits." Stercoptican
slides are shown in connection with
this lecture. The public is invited and
urged to attend. The second lecture
will be to women in the court house
Friday morning at 10 o'clock, when her
subject will be "Practical Civics for
Practical Women." Three other lec
tures will be delivered before the
teachers of the graded school, the chil
dren of the graded school and the chil
dren of the colored school. The time
and subjects of these addresses have
not been announced definitely.
Of Miss van huren, the following
was written of her in the Women's
Club department. of the State of Sun
day:
"Miss Maud Van Blu ren, whose coin
ing has been so holed for by those
interested in civic problems, began her
work in South Carolina at Marion last
week, giving Tuesday and Wednesday
to that town. if her hearers are not
now more useful citizens, it surely is
not Miss Van Iluren's fault. She gives
fresh impetus to former civic en
deavor and new Ideas for the future.
She makes one see things differently
-just the same old things which have
troubled one's league. She puts the
brain to work! Often it in the case
that people 'do not like to use their
brains-lest they wear out, maybe!
"Miss Vai lu'ean says the work of
a civic organization is not taking care
of parks and sidewalks, of school
grounds and railroad stations. What
is It? Something the average person
has never thought. of. Every town
will have to hear her in order to find
out."
(OIUlt('i EXTE.NSION ItALLY.
To he Held at the Methodist. ('hurch
Next Tuesday Afternoon and Even
ing.
A rally In the interest of church ex
tension work in the Greenville Dis
trict Ns ill be held in the First. Metho
(list Church of Laurens, on Tuesday af
ternoon and evening, February 29Ith.
Bishop 'Collins Denny, of Illehmiond,
Va., and i)r. W. F. Me\iurry, of Louis
ville, Ky., Secretary of the General
lloard of Church Extension, will be
present and make addresses. This con
ference is to be composed of the pas
tors, the officials and other Christian
workers of Gray Court circuit, Lau
rens, Laurens circuit, and Clinton. En
tertainment will be provided for all
of the visiting br'ethriens. The tfirst sos
slons will begin at 2:30 p. in. andl the
evening seirvice at 7:30 o'clock. The
brethiiren of otheir chairges in this sec
lion jof thle sinato ar'e cordialy inivi ted
to be preseunt.
J. Rt. TI. Mlajor.
'At Orniy ('ou rt Owjibgs.
On Friday eveninlg. Fe(b. 25, at 3
o'c lo(k. lhe hi gh chiioo season5 oif base
haull will open at Gray ('ourt-Owings.
That daliy Ia gam wiO ~ill be played lbe
tweens thle loenl teami and thle fas:4t tenas
fiom Fountain inn. At. R o'clock that
n ighit there will lbe an oratorical con
test, selectit on by primaisry grades, and1(
inuisic het ween these select ioins. Thelse
e xeries(' are free and~ the public is
jnsvit ed. Afteor tiis cyst ers w~i li e
served by the high sc'hool g ils, 10v
plieasanst evening.
('thid lliirned,
Laite( i Thruisday a fte(rniooii Inez, t ho
sev.ein yeasr old daughiter'I of M\r. anad
.\Mi's. L. Ti. I lellamss, oif the Shilohs ('(om
miti ity, was seriously burn sed. Tlhe
chiild was playing around a tire in the
yard where her smot her had been wash
lng. lin sonie way heri clot hinig was
ig'ited andl alimost, all hur ined( off' be
foire the blaze w~as extinguished.
Prtompiit medle ial aid( was gi veni thle siuf
feiring clild1( aind at laite( replort she
was resting faiirly wvell. It. is hopied
that her injuries will not pirove ser'i
ouss. lothi Mr'. and Mr's. Ilollanis were
painfully burned about the hands and
arms in their effort to nave the child.
APPOIN'i EN''S 31D1)E
FOR 1.t'I ENS ('O1'N'1''
ltural i'olielnenI, Sulervisors of Bleg
istrntion - a.ndl Townshil Assessors
Naed by ( o). 3lanning.
T'he following :appointments were
niade by Gov. .ianning Saturday upon
the reconnmen(lation of the county del
egalion and con irine(I by th1e state
senate:
Ituratl P'olleenien1.
.1. Andy lloyd, Laurens; V. .\. \\ilie,
Owings; L. C. Abereronibie, (Gray
Court ; ('olumults Owens, 1Laurens; T.
It. Abrains. (oldville.
Suipervisors of 1tegistratiott.
. opeland, Sr., Clinton; Ton)
ILangston, ILaurens; '. IT. Hlurts, Lan
renls,
Townnship Assessors.
Lautrens 'Township--S. J. Dlavis, S.
Rt. Sloan, 13. I1. Blakeley, Laurens.
Youngs--W. P'. Harris, Owings; .1. 1).
Stewart, Fountain in; E. Watts Pat
ton (vice W. ii. Drumtnond, resigned),
Fountain Inn.
Dials--V. C. Curry, Gray Court;
.Ino. II. Wolff, Gray 'ourt; L .W. Gil
liland, Fountain inn.
"uill ivan--N. It. \Vodd, Ware Shoals;
1. Ludy liald.in. Gray ("ourt; '1'. '1'.
Wood, Ware Shoals.
Waterloo--G. .M. .\oore, Laurens; .1.
M. Pearce, \\aterloo; .I. W. 11111, Wa
terloo.
Cross I ill---Ceo. .I. lIanna, 1:. Ti.
l'inson, It. S. (riflln, ('ross 11111.
C'ros:s lill] TIow.n--I. L2. .\eSwain, A.
l. Ilill II. .\. Austi n, Cross 11111.
IIlunter - .lohn M1. Sinimons. .\ount
yille; II. G. Wallace, Kinards; C. 11.
Workinan, 'Clinton.
Clinton--il. P. Adair, L. It. Stone, E.
W. lF ergison, Clinton.
Laurens City--Augustus Iluff, J. 1).
Mock. ii. ), Mahaffey, Laurens.
lacks--P. I. Copeland, Renno; S.
W. D~ean, llenno; D). W. Copeland, Clin
ton.
Suitletown--.I. A. Suncrel Lau
Y'enR; W. -M1. 1tyer.4, .Cluitnn; R I. E.
Goodwin (vice L. S. Machray, de
eeased), Clinton.
The recomniendation of rural police
men was a knotty question for the delt
egation as there was a large number
of applicnnts and a great deal of pres
rfitre brought to bear in the interest or
the different candidates, sahi to have
numbered in the neighborhood of Ifty.
it will be seen by the list. appointed
that former policemen A. It. Sullivan
and .cltn Kellett were not re-appoint
ee, policemen Owens and Abe'rcrtombie
taking Iheir places.
New Depnty Sheriff.
\I r. ('laude Owings, brother of the
late John I). Owings. has )'!en tender
ed and has nelepted the position of
deputy sheriff by Sheriff \\'atts and
will Iove li: family to the city. \r.
Owings takes the place made vacant by
t he resignation of Mi. C. L. Owens, who
has been a cppoin1ted rural policeman by
Governor .\Manning.
To iemodel Stores.
.IMr. O. It. Simm11ons, owners of the
buildil now occupied by the iced Iron
I lack et No. 4 and( the .iotnes-Tiayior
liarae t' c (omoPnay 3. it i tiecen''t'y13 the
iUrooks l iardware ('omailny, is conisld
ering platts to remiode'l his htitildling.
lI t expects to 'hiange lie front cotn
sideorablly and to divide Ithe builintg so
its to have three store rnomts. 'lTe
bi'ildnli.' fe et, wide
.I(~l rin Iiintrininment. c'Iii
AlThe tachersil ofndh I'uitaof Shlioh
the I .eh5(olhiI ous leiday iiL i~ eveig (I.
lic',Is i'td on. It.KIttle ias fre
it lis .o i' griia Ni ti-: (1-C ': io).
Prmi enitt anrenis l'hiitn .iiaitoi
Ste .iieic'vet'letze o h
Soeal' .\ssocitoghl in'l'ihmontd, \'n.,
las week,'. i g. hE. ihe ~as rae
I ece ieltr Cof the las cieain
hs mietica li sciet '' aopie mOem
('i os from irg iiac No( Crli naiitba.i
and Setoth yaroltna at' its anembir
usons. hoDr al. I iugheslhas las een'
havig t ongrutimhedthe oson ever
Prsiet ndfr(helst0ieyer
AN t'NTl1Ell, E'ND)
OF PI 0INN 1 .\ltlt
(ivens Strickler lankin, Son of 114l.
tnd 31 Is. ('. I". Itnnkin, Died 310itlnay
31lornin"- of Ty')phold Defer.
A\. pmll of gloom was cost over the
city .ilonday afternt~n when it herann-(
knowin that. (ivens Strickler Ilankin.
the popmlar y otin ,on of' ie. nid .\rs.
C. P. I Hankin, had iammedl away. i)eathI
cattle at 12::dl p. i. .londay after a
long siege of Iyphoid fevcr. Althoui
lie had been very ill for severaIl weeks,
hopes were held out for his recovery
until Siinday evening when a turn for
the Worse look place. From then to
the tline of his dcath preparations
were made for th' end, his physician
and parents, while making every ef
fort to prolong his fading life, resign
ing themselves to the inevitable.
Yesterday afternoon religious ser
vices were conducted in the First
Presbyterian clurch, of which he was
a member and his father pastor. 'The
services were conducted by 1Rev. .I. L.
Mle4in, pastor of the 'T'odd Memorial
and lAisbon Presbyterian clitiirches, as
sisted by R1ev. 31. l,. Lawson, pastor of
the Blaptist cltrcli and Rev. .1. 11. T.
.\Malor, pastor of the .\etlhodist chureh.
Pron the cinirh hIle body wa:; horne
to the I an -rens cemetery where it was
interred after a simple blut impressive
ceremony. The deacons and elders of
the Presbyteriana church acted as 1all
bearers, while the local troop of 1I y
Scouts and menhers of the tenth grade
at. school, of both of which the de
ceased was a nem ber, acted as honor
ary escorts. A mass of people, of mv
ery denomination and representative
of every walk in the city's life, was
present. at. the grave's side to pay a last
tribute to his pure and spotless life
and to express mutely, but none lie
less sincerely, sympathy for the be
reaved parents. After the services
were said and the body committed to
its last resting place a bliinket of beau
tiful flowers, temporary in its exist
ence but abiding in the memories it
will kindle, Was spread over the grave.
Str'ickler Rlankin, as he was fanil
Iarly known, was in the sixteenth year
of hiis age, being horn in ltichuond,
Va. in 1900. lie was in the tenth grade
at the city graded schools, where he
stood withl the Iiighest in his classes.
lie was diligent in his studies, act ive
and industrious in various pursuits
outside the school room, enthusiastlIc
in play and fair and honorable In all
his associations, hoth among his fel
lows and his elders. lie was of manly
bearing and kindly disposition, of a
noble and ('Irislian charaeter, h1ghly
regarded by all who knew hin and
loved by his intimates, lls untinely
passing' is greatly mourned whei'er
lie was known.
The deceased is survived by his par
ents, Rev. and \1rs. C. P. lankin, and
one sister, Miss C'arolino flankin.
Watts .11lls (:orporat 1Dilsposes of
$75),000l( P're'ferredl Stock Iiecently
Votedu. Tlo i'-:reet Newr 'ottauges.
Aniiouinc'iient was iiiude in (Gie in
ville seve(raLl clays ago tlhat the W\at ts
.\1111 of this city, had siicc's;fuilly
placed the issue of! $7.ui,000t hireferredi
stock voted by thle stocklihhlirs somie
imonithsi agoi. I is iinderstoiodi t hat a
turtt cif thle prociieedisi clm thie ne
stockl wuiiIlihe iis('dl ini ]uiving oft out -
standxilng oligaitiions that have lein
hatnging ovier ithe coimpany f'oi' scome
tliiie and the remalider is to lie tised
mienitls as thte iinaniageiinent ihlt di'em
niec'essary. Nc aditi ion cir C'xtenxsivei
'ur'sei.l Theli ima'chiniery' is modccern'u
aiid ini a high staitc' of ctlh-iency, so ii
repluacemnts ni ill lie inade at anyi
carily (late. I iowevei, tht'ei nmberi cif
iipeirat ives will be licasced to me'et
lie gr'ow ing cd'manid t'or thle imiill's out
hut, so thirity-twco ncew cot tage:; will
lie erected immiiedliaiely. Th'Ie c'cltlages
will lie bilit on thle compjainy's lprocper
ty ain~eent to thec ill and beitwei'n
the mill aiic the r'ity on east side cii
the' publ>~ipirol. Th,' l~nd Fltivi
P'owver (Compa ny hadic its handis atl wcii'
hast week clbangiing the location of it
power-I ransilssion line ,'o that h
jicles and wvires wouild not lnter
with thle woruik upon the builing. Thi
hi rea'ise in thle mill's calinelly will ire
sult in the acddition of ciuite a num-n
heri of newv familIes Ico the mIll corn'
mu nit y aiid will moan consecqunnt ad
cdltioins to the volume of tradlo in banu
rn,
SLI HT l' .ltIIi('i E 111:1; -- -
L.\S'I' 310N1.\' EVENIN(.
Two Distinct Shocks Were Noticeable
.\ bout 11:11). Felt in a Vail lng;i D -
Lree in iair Soulhern States. No
gtee in Four Sout he'ni States.
Anl eat~ittkel of several seconds
duration inad)' iiself felt in aurens
last .londay evenin at 6: 10, calsinig
no end of disen::;ion and Some Few
frights. illndreds throttghout. the city
fell Ilhe shock but 1he ma iority blated
it on the 0h1 eat .iumttping off' the sutp
per table. or a railroad engine, or
burglars, or Zeppelin bollbs or i1'yan
sliking hands with Itarrison. A hack
horse, frightened by the quake, causel
the only damage when it envorted
around ihe sItuare a couple of times
and ended up by smashing into a tele
phone post.
Lamp '"'hrown lFrom Table.
Abbeville, Feb. 21.-A distinct earth
shock was felt in Abbeville this after
noon about 6:10, which lasted probably
thirty seconds. The shock was se
vere enough to cause ceiling electric
lights to swing in the stores. Il Fort
Pickens Ithe shoe1k was the strongest,
causing two lampls inl one residenctte to
be thrown from a table.
Dihes Rtattled,
Anderson, P-'ub. 21--- -.\rthiuake
wast el. here tills aftrnoon1 about
G: 10 o'clock. Ihe're were three dis
tinct shocks, the second bieing the tolst
severe. Dishes rat tied and walls quiv
ered. The three shocks ocetupied about
one iinute's time. No damage has
been heard of.
Very i)ecided Shock.
Clinton, Feb. 21.--An earthquake
I was felt here tonight at about. 7 o'clock
No damage has been reported, but a
very decided shock was felt over the
whole CommuI1itIIy.
Noticed by Many.
( ree n wood, Feb. 21.-- (l ree n wood
was visited by a slight, but distinet,
earthquake shock at half-past G o'clock
this evening. The shock was noticed
by (uitue a number of people.
Windows lIattled.
Chattanooga, Tenn., Feb. 21.-Two
earth tremors were felt at 5:15 this af
ternoon. The shocks rattled windows
and caused excited inu iries as to the
cause of the dlistu11rbat ce. Futrniture
moved about perceptibly and articles
on desks were disturbed In c "ice build
ings. Exeitement. was caused on Look
out .\ountain and i0issionary Ridge.
where tile shocks were reported to
hav1 been of pronounced intensity.
Not Generally Noticeable.
Norfolc, Va., Feb. 2I.-- The weather
biell au reported that there was a slight
earh tremor here about 6:40 o'clock'l
tonight. It was not generally noice
able and no damage was done.
Se i'rai 31ier'chan ts of1 ~au rens WIll
Several11 m1erch'iants oIf 11he ('ity haIve
signlli a (on1tract ni'lth the 14dle 1ll)1ur
pl(~i'ir sho)w 1o give free tlikts to
I w4enty-five ('en1ts orI more1. Tihe follow
a gr'eedl toI give the4se fr'ee likke t s: Ii.
T err'y, i'owe Dug (Compan1y, Caish
1reka1 lrug ('ompatny, and1( ('rswell'e
.\lrkel. 'This off'er of a flee ticket
*with at1 ( lsh) purtchase1 of ' or' more1
will la.st for tell weeks1{ and4 I Ih ticke'ts
\\'ednesay orI Thur4l(day maineI fr11 om14))
will hold11 a regu1i1lr54 talld 1'onvoenlltion)1
Fl''hay nlighi and1 wifl tnf' .\l)ar1
.\laster' and1 PasIt .\iaster (legreels. A\
'led eet in lg Wll be1 behi) .\lnday
W1. 1I. Drummoind Very41~) 'ieh1.
W X. ii. 1)rummlond, (114. ofI tile wi idest
kno1(wnI 11en1 in thle 'ounty 13 and4 a4 mlemt
he4r of tile board (of r'egolni1 at tile
S.tto a lospit al for i'nsane51 11, is very1'
sick at is 1home1 ait la1nford. lII
frIends are ver'y unel4asy as5 10 his en1
(111.1r..
NO COUNTY JAIL
BlliT T18 YER
Bill Passed House but Kill
e:] in Senate
$70,000 NEEDEL
COUNTY PURP'OS7.S
.tatters of Luca,' Interest Th'Irashell out
brk ('ounty D elegnlthml 1111! Piut in
F-o rnm (i' buat by v.ile I,eg-'is lat u re. .\lp
pl'olrint:ion for t~he ('ounty Fair.
Th'le sums total of acc'ornplishrnents in
t.l' legislaittre, in so far as local mat
lts are concerned, nmay be recorded
in a few words: jail bill killed, hunlt.
ers license bill killed, I'uckett 's Perry
bridge iatter left. about as before, no
change iade in ritral police act, sup
ply bill passed appropriating about
$70,000, and tax levy placed at : in ills,
heing instillicent. to provide for the
appropriat ion.
The bill pr oviding for le cI'reclion
of( a new Jil or reinodeling of the old
one was introduced anid passed in the
hoiuse, hui allo'wed to <We in the soil
at e b~y r nator' (:oodwint.
The b1l1 iitrol (hledl by S'iator Cood
win and pa. :44d in Ile Senate cxeinpt
i:; r . coulnty from the pro vi
sions of the hulnteis' li1n'se acl was
killed by the local delegaU ion inl the
I louse.
The hill providling for -ilhr' ('lilt lon
of a bridge ietween I4111reils aLnl
Greenwood counties at Piickeft's ]Ferry
snpported by lIepresentative (oggals,
of this county and by the (reenwood
(elegation, was plasse(d after' heintg so
amended as to be praceically inoper
It being understood that the citizens
Iwas left to the supervisors, as it was
before the bill was introduce(l.
The delegation, recognizing the im
portance of the coiy fair, mtade an
appropriation of $(t.i for that luItpose,
it being understood that the (iligens
of Laurens would subscr ibe a like
amnount.
The ionilillations and appoint il itetts
for different ollices, such as ruri al po
.ice, etc., will he found inl another col
iun.n The supply hbill, as urniAbeil
by lciteresentative HIarris, is as fol
lows:
!toad s and bridges, $19,t2:.i0o.
('onvits and il;inteclnce of road
wolking organization, $12,(1010.00.
Pulblic buildlings', including water,
fuel, lights, insurance and postage,
$1,159.70.
.lail exlensies. including (liet ing of
prisoners. $2,t(t0.00.
County boine, poorhouse and outside
poor, $2,-125.71.
('curt expenses, $4,:bt).00.
Ilooiks, sta tinery and printing,
$1,071.-11.
iloald of ETluali.ation, $327.:30, and
I oa rd of 'duea t ion, $.14.00--$:.27.30.
interest on horrowed money, $2,000.
Initeres t on bonds, $S,th52.50; sinking
fund1( fort ret irileient ofC bonids, $1 ,:97.50
- $9,1. 0.)
8:alar'ies: l'l(erk of ('ourt, $ l't.00:
Shiir ff,. $1,oe0.00; Tlreasurer!, $7oo.l0
('(hr hllel', $2 12.501: Ilke lluiral l'nljeeiei,
$1 .777.'5: S'u pebris~or', :ou.0 :i tw o
S'nhh.lll: ('tirk to ltnnarl of' ('oumiiy
townhip~~l, $::00.t0; ('ross I lill towni
$t'hip $1'2u.ti0: ti)u ill ' w township,
l iil towinshipj, 8I ?.o': ; Olivan.
S I00l.til: tlo u il o nhiti~l1 ii p. k75.00:
Tlai I $1 ,775.00. I hion.uable \tti orii it.
S7:a.lin, ' urthou $ .2 . . 'ru :h Water
loo itownhi, 21.0; It('tlil(to l
$Ship, $tl; .0it;l roti 1111,1$ tow.n0; hip,
l ian townsip, $ .00: .otlik town-59(
.1h1' 1 0 .0ti : from oiitd i l le S town:, hiti
$75.t0C, $1o0ta0'l,(~ $1,:1 hi itt . To' e rlais
by0.0 taaia, $7,ta.47. 17.0;ms
