n )7
Citizen.
The prophet who hti't known in hJ s
own country can " 'r lay the blame
A man doesn't know what is in him
until he tries and he hasn't tried
until he has advertised Scribe
at the door or poor a? $ "trig; Proof
VOL.. XXXV, ml 21
HYDE PARK, VERMONT, WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 191G.
$1.25 A YEAR
m m m mm
This blue X means that your
subscription expires with this
number and that no more
ptipers will be sent you unless
vour subscription is renewed.
Renew at once so as to receive
next issue of oaper.
Teachers' Examinations
Will be held at DotueKtio Science Rooms,
Morrisville, Thursday and Friday, March
2 and 3, 1916, beginning ai 9 a. m. Appli
cants unknown to Examiner are requested
to furnish testimonials.
O. B. HOWE, SUP'T.
If at Cue's
Old-fashioned Pin Head Oat Meal
Fresh Cereals of all Kinds
Imported Sardines '
Impei ial Clul) Cheese
Home-mad
BUSINESS NOTICES.
Jelly
Comb Honey
Saturday Specials
2 lbs. Evaporated Apricots,
6 lbs. Good Rice,
25c
25c
Celery and Lettuce Saturday
You Know the Right Man
You have knorn him for years. O. K. THE
ORIGINAL. Cash paid for Junk. Hides, Furs,
etc. No relatives or partners. Watch for O. K.
Telephone or send postal.
OSCAR KAHN
Tel. 25-5 Lake Street, Morrisville, Vt
YES 1 1
The chances are ten to one that
you cf"n get it at Ellis', if it is any
thing in the line ol Aecoml Hand
Goods that von want, and it you
hare anything in that line vou vish
to sell, the chances are just as good
that we can sell it for you.
Come and try it, f i t her wav.
Wanted. Teams for Logging. Phone at our
expense. (J. t, & F. O. Burt, Stowe,
Wanted. Veal Calves Suckers or Drinkers;
also goud rat Hogs.
A. W. Waitb, Morrisville,
Pigs. I have for sale some dandy White Ches
ter Pigs, four weeks old next Saturday.
Phone 13-u D. H. Thudeao, Hyde Park.
For Sale.- -Two Sleighs, one nearly new; two
Buggies and one pair one-horse Sleds. Cheap for
cush to close out. J. C. Peck, Morrisville.
Cash Paid. Highest Cash Price paid for
Calves, Cheap Cows, Bulls and Hogs.
Tel.124-31 John Miner, Hyde Paek.
Piano. Family moving out of town owes bal.
ance of $129 on a handsome Upright Grand Puno.
It is yours for the balance. Write"
Thb Gibbs Piano Co.,
71-73 Main St., Springfield, Mass.
30 years in one location.
Apples I Apples. We have just received an
other shipment of Fancy Baldwin Apples. This
will probably be the last we shall have this season.
1 hey are very rancy Apples. It you want any,
place your order now, as they will soon be gone.
strong sc uoddard, tiyae rarit.
I offer fortale two lots of 100 acres eacli
of Timber and Vas'iire Luul. Tlie-e lots
are located in he tnwn i f Kden and are
known as the Anion 0 1 in lot aud the
South OpeuinL's. I'll s is a rare bargain
WALTER D. STKONG, Hyde Park,
Adm'r Estate of Amelia A. Edgerton.
T. O.
5 Winter St.,
ELLIS
Morrisville Feb 16
MORRISVILLE
Teachers' examinations Thursday and
Friday, March 2 and 3. See adv't.
QjMrs. C. M.Pope, who has been con
fined to her home for some time by ill
ness, is still unable to be out.
Mrs. A. W. Whittemore of the Elmore
road has been confined to her bed the
past week, suffering trom grip.
Guy Kneeland, of the Campbell jewelry
store, went to Boston last Saturday
night for a lew days' visit. He returmd
today.
Mrs. L. C. Tillotson went to W.-cr-ville
last week Tuesday for a sev.iil
days' stay with her sister, Mrs. V. P
Smilie.
Mr. and Mrs Ray Porter are receiving
congratulations on the birth of a dau;; ti
ter, Marcella Ruth, born on Wednesday,
MORE NEW PATRONS
Miss Mamie Weafer entertained Miss
Joice Perkins of Hard wick over Sunday,
Judge George A. Morse and H. A. Slay-
ton attended a bankers' meeting iu St.
Jonsbury yesterday.
Arthur W. Waite is optimistic enough
to advertise fresh strawberries for next
Friday. Garden seeds. will soon be in
order.
We are pleased to note that the condi
tion of E. M. Davis of Hardwick con
tinues to improve. He is now able to
sit up.
Aaron Morrill was unable to attend to
his duties at the Morrisville Foundry
several days the past week on account
of illness.
w. Lamnmaa 01 Lynn, juass., a
druggist of ten years' experience, began
work in the A. L. Cheney pharmacy
as prescription clerk.
The "Waterville Feather Co." of Wat
erville, Maine, have a branch factory at
Hardwick, where they make feather beds
into mattresses. adv.
1
E. C. Page is recoverfng very satisfac
torily from his injuries received when he
fell through the railroad bridge recently
and is now able to sit up.
S. L. Ring and a force o( men were in
Wolcott several days last week, where
they cut and put up ice for the Wolcott
creamery and private parties.
Charles E. Cox has rented his place on
Laporte road, known as the John Perry
place, toHarryFullingtonof Cambridge,
who took possession last week.
Miss Rboda Ober, who is a teacher in
St. Johnsbury, was a guest from last
Friday evening until Tuesday morning
of her parents, Mr. and Mrs. Ira Ober.
Miss Gladys McCauley of the Citizens
Telephone office returned Saturday niglit
from her hon'e in Newport, where she
spent several days on account of illness.
Mr. and Mrs. Albert Godfrey have
moved here from Jeffersonville and are
living in Mrs. J. M. Foss' tenement house
on Summer street. Mr. Godfrey is em
ployed in the Morse dressing mill.
Mrs. G. F. Wheeler of Bristol, N. H.,
came last week Tuesday evening for a
stay of several weeks with Mr. and Mrs,
Charles McFarland. Mrs Wheeler was
formerly Miss Glean Leach of Morrisville
- Mrs.- Louis N. Well!) and little son of
New York City, who have been visiting
relatives in this vicinity lor the past few
weeks, went to Wolcott last Friday to
ICE RACING ON LAKE
Popular Sport Strikes Morris
. ville Horsemen Hard
A large number from Morrisville and
surrounding territory witnessed some
good racing on Lake Lamoille yesterday,
where an eighth of a mile stretch had
been cleared of snow. The stretch head
ed up the lake and finished at the long
bridge. The meet was under the aus
pices of the Lamoille Valley Trotting
Club, a newly organized association, of
which Dr. John M. Canty is secretary
and Treasurer. F. A. Cutting acted as
starter and E. A. Smalley and E. E.
Harris as judges.
The horses, mostly well-known locally,
put up a fine show, Sir Albert, the cel
ebrated "speed merchant" from Stowe,
winning first honors in class A,
The summary, the owner's name be
ing given Instead ofthe horse's:
CLASS A
Ervin Sulham,
Charles Hawkins,
Will Sulham,
Oscar Sulham,
; CLASS B
Bruce McDonald,
H. A. Smalley,
Homer Smith,
F. E. Wheeler,
Ed Recor,
Next Saturday there will be another
meet at the same place, beginning at
1:30. It will be over a one-fourth mile
course and there will be four classes, two
for pacers and two for trotters. Each
class will race for the following prizes
First prize, street blanket; second, stable
blanket; third, good whip. Each horse
will be classed by the judges.
1
3
2
4
3
1
2
4
3
1
2
4
4
1
3
2
4
3
1
2
4
5
STARTS
24th!
Small's Housing ieducion Sals
The Advertised Date, Feb. 28, as
printed on page 3, is an error,
Feb. 24 in the correct date.
Keep falling into line, people finding out that' it pays visit Mr- WelIs' mother, Mrs. c. o. Day
4- r H n Hrkinrrk of thn Kneif onrt rr Pnpt nn,-l . K I 1USU1I
you get all the good things to eat.
The condition of Mrs. A. C Bedell, who
has been confined to her bed the past
two weeks, is improving and she is now
able to be about the house. Mrs. E. A.
Dodge, who has been caring for her went
to the home of C A. Sanders Monday.
Mrs. Grace McMath and daughter,
Miss Helen, have leased the lower tene
ment in Mrs. A. A. Kendall's remodelled
home on Union street and will begin
housekeeping there in a few days. Mrs.
Kendall and daughter, Miss Ha. reserve
Or a part of the second floor.
Chas. C Boynton of Cheshire, Conn.,
arrived in town last Friday morning for
a few days' visit with his parents, Mr.
and Mrs. L. B. Bovnton, on Jersey
Heights.- L. B., who has been confined
to the house with the prevailing dis-
For Saturday only, Arbuckles Delicious Chocolates, temPer. is now alie to i out
all flavors, IOC a ID. JJO not think these CllOCOlateS are A new business in Morrisville which is
poor because the price is cheap, for they are very nice ravinsa healthy and steady growth is
chocolates.
For the rest of this week only, we will sell
3 lb. Prunes for 25c.
4 cans Swift Pride Cleaner, 25c.
Canned Peas, very good quality, 3 cans, 25c.
Blue Label Catsup, large bottles, 19c.
New lot of Codfish Bits, just in, 2 lbs.,' 25c.
Berry Hall's Champlain Coffee, 1 lb. packages, 21c.
1 lb. Frankfurts, 3 lbs. Sour Krout, 25c.
We are also in the market for more Calves, suckers
drinkers, also good fat Hogs.
. We will have FRESH STRAWBERRIES FRIDAY
SATURDAY SPECIALS
ARTHUR W. WASTE
MORRISVILLE, VERMONT
AT SALEEBY'S
STILL A CHANCE FOR YOU TO SAVE MONEY
Only a few more days in which you can buy a Fur Coat
or a heavy Woth Loat at our nnal Clearance Prices.
Men's and Women's Fur Coats at $17.50. . These Coats
were priced from $25 to 30. Better Coats at 1-3 off.
Women's Cloth Coats at $5.00. Only 30 Coats left, all
sizes, l hey were lormerly priced up to $18.00.
Men's and Young Men's Suits and Overcoats at S6.90.
You can surely find a Suit or an Overcoat in this lot that
will fit you. We have them yet in all sizes. If you get etk PIanned aod have shipped their
one of these at this orice vou will set more than twine vnnr ood back to Hardwick.' where tbrT
mom-v's Worth. have a branch store. The
Ellis second hand store, which he has
thus far conducted at his residence on
Winter street. An inspection of a fecond
hand stock is always interesting and in
mary cases the looker finds what he has
wanted lor a long time but, bad given up
being able to get. This is a business
that is needed in this vicinity.
Last Wednesday evening nearly twen
ty members of the Unity ol the Congre
gational church went to Hvde Park to
witness the production of "The Court of
Fame." They report the entertainment
first class and the trip, which was made
in a two horse team, furnished by H. A,
Smalley & Co., a delightful one. The
company arrived home at about eleven
o'clock, when refreshment were served
in the vestry by Mrs. F. W. Mould. Mrs.
R. L. Barrows and Miss Belle Barrows.
The Waterville Feather Company o
Waterville, Me. who leased the rooms
fomerly occupied by the E. G. Foss gro
cery store in the Burke block, were un
able to open for business the first of the
Letter Carriers Meet
The annual meeting of the Lamoille
County Rural Letter Carriers' Associa
tion was held at Hardwick Feb. 22,
there being a'out 60 present at the after
noon session.
At the business meeting the follnwintr
i
1 T-:ji r u i i'
UUJIII9 vvcic nciLcu. i ICStUCIJl, XV. IJ,
Noyes, Hvde Park; Vice President, R. F.
Atchinson, Morrisville; Secretary and
Treasurer, H. Downer, Stowe; Delegate-at-laige
to State Convention, B. P. Val
lencourt, Greensboro Bend; 2nd delegate
A. C. Hooker, Hardwick.
At this meeting the natiie of the Associ
ation was changed to the Lamoille Val
ley Rural Letter Carriers' Association.
Campbell's Clearance Sale
Campbell's Clearance Sale statted to-
dav and will last just ten days, when
articles from all depai tinentsof this first
class store can be bought fur prices wav
below their actual value. Fur particu
lars see their adv. on page 2.
Lamoille Grange Anniversary
Next Saturday will be observed as An
niversary Day by Lamoille Grange and
an interesting program is being arranged
for the occasion by the lecturer, Mrs.
Clarence Day.
A dinner will be served at noon.
At the meeting last Friday it was vot
ed to hold but two meetings each month
instead of three as in the past. Th
meetings will be held in the future on th
second Thursday and the third Friday.
Annual Guest Night
The attractive home of Hon. F. G.
Fleetwood was the scene of a charming
social function last evening, when the
Woman's Club of Morrisvilleentertained
on their annual "Guest Night." The
spacious rooms, with their flowering
plants and open wood fires, were in de
lightful contrast to the cold outside and
were soon filled with happy guests, who
had come prepared to enjoy themselves,
and it is safe to say that not one went
home disappointed.
The guests were received by Mr. Fleet
wood and the officers of the Club, Mrs.
H.J. Fisher, President, Misj Marie Gu-
lick, Miss Lou Slocum, Mrs. E. W.Gates,
Mrs. Nettie Law, and each guest was
presented with a tiny hatchet as a re
minder of the date, Washington's birth-' g0
day. After all bad been welcomed a
short musical program was rendered,
consisting of selections on the Victrola,
which had been kindly loaned by Mr.
and Mrs. C.J. Lease, a humorous read
ing by Rev. W. E. Baker entitled "Bugs"
and a vocal solo, "Two Kings" by Mr.
Robert Merrill, which were all well re
ceived. A short play, "Mrs. Oakley's
Telephone", was then presented under
the direction of Mrs. J. Thatcher Sears,
which was very laughable and enjoyable.
Miss Slocum was charming as Mrs.Oak-
ev, the young wife; Mrs. Crahmer took
the part of Emma, the German girl, in
excelltnt style; Mrs. Stearns as Con
stance, Mm. Oakley's friend, left nothing
to be desired, while Miss Pinney as
HYDE PARK
Other Hyde Park news on page 6.
Mrs. Lyman Peck is quite ill withgript
Will Grimes, who has been very ill, is
better.
E. E. Badger and wife returned from
their "down country" visit last Monday
F. C. Shaw of the Boston Farm School,
is a guest at the home of Mr. and Mrs,
N. G. Wood.
The "Waterville Feather Co." of Wat.
erville, Maine, have a branch factory at
Hardwick, where they make featherbeds
into mattresses. adv.
Col. Wheeler is sojourning at present
at the County hostelry. He will have a
hearing next Monday on the charge ol
disturbing the quietude of his home.
me say the Colonel is "non comooa
mentis."
. Mrs, Will Davis, accompanied by her
husband and Dr. Stevens, went to the
Fanny Allen Hospital Monday, where
she underwent an operation for the re
moyal of gall-stones. Late reports are
the patient is doing well.
Col. and Mrs. McFarland, Mr. and
Mrs. F. M. Culver and R. S. Page at
tended the annual meeting of the State
Bankers Association at St. Johnsbury
yesterday. The ladies pronounce it a
i very interesting event s especially the
banquet.
At the club meeting Tuesday evening
at the home of Mrs. Lillian Noyes, Mrs.
Scofield gave a very interesting account
Mary, the Irish help, made a decided hit i ' her western trip. Views of the princi
and kept her audience much amused. I Pal places visited and several specimens
Bridge and Five hundred were played ' ore front the different places waian
at small tables during the evening, which, added interest. Mrs. Hallie Page read
were well filled all the time, and for those fr Miss Alice Page an interesting article
who did care to play, the Victrola fur-1 on Canadian Rockies and Alaska. Next
nished delightfulentertainment, The J meeting, w'll be in ope week with Mrs,
dining room was beautifully decorated ; McFafland. '
with flags and risers, the center piece' Death of Thomaj Moore
out be table beinjf a handsome bouquet! Th ,.
of carnations. Fruit, salad, sandwiches,
coffee and sweets were served. Mrs. M.
P.Maurice and Mrs. Mary Canty poured
coffee and were assisted in serving by
Miss Nan Wombell, Mrs. Geo. L. Bates
and Mrs. C. D. Lease. Misses Zita and
Teresa Towne catered.
The Woman's Club wish to thank Mr.
at 2.15 o'clock at.thc home of his daugh
ter, Mrs. F. E. Quigley, in Rutland, where
be and bis wife went a few weeks ago to
spend the winter. He had been in poor
health a long time and his death was not
unexpected. He was 76 years old and ia
survived by his daughter, bis wife and a
son, vv ill, ot t'lainheld, N.J.; also a broth-
Many Other Things Yet To Be Closed Out
At A Big Sacrifice
A. J. SALEEBY
"THE STORE THAT SAVES YOU MONEY."
JOHNSON, VERMONT
reason was
that the fire insurance company object
ed to the use of naptha and cloroform in
the process used by the company. The
young man who has charge of the bus
iness in Hardwick is a son of the owner.
Another Christmas Club
This time it i the Sterling Trust Co. of
Johnson, which (tarts one of those pop
ular Christmas Savings Clubs this week.
Give a little every week and you'll be
surprised with a good sized check next
December. Read the advertisement on
page five.
Death of Young Girl
Grace Etta, the thirteen years old
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Burnbam B
Colby of Congress street, died last night
at 7.40, having been confined to her bed
for one week. Death was due to Bright's
disease and followed i long period of ill
health. Besides her parents, she is sur.
vived bv six brothers and one sister.
I Her oldest brother, Edmuud Colby, came
tins morning.
Funeral services will be held from the
home Thursday at two o'clock, Rev. W
T. Best officiating. The remains will be
placed in the vault and interment will be
made in Waterbury.
Dr. John M. Canty went to Burlington
this morning, where he is attending a
meeting of the Vermont Veterinary Med
ical Association.
M. B. Eaton, who has been ill the past
week from the prevailing distemper, has
been confined to his bed the past two
days, because of complications.
At the regular meeting of the local W.
R. C. next Monday evening Washing
ton's birthday will be observed with ap
propriate exercises. A special invitation
is extended to Comrades of the Post.
Mrs. CM. Boyntonhas been ill the past
week at the Boynton home on Jersey
Heights, suffering from grip. Although
86 years of age, Mrs. Boynton usually
enjnys excellent neaitn ana ner mary
friends will be pleased to know that her
condition is improving.
Miss Altha Robson, teacher in district
No. 10, on West Hill, is planning exer
cises by the scholars at the school bouse
on Friday evening, beginning at seven
o'clock. The exercises will consist of
recitations. muic, etc., and an admission
of ten cents will be charged. The pro
ceeds will be used to purchase a flag and
furnishings fr the building
ed are urged to attend.
hlpprwnnri tnr nia hncnitalitTr Mr a n H '
n tr,...u' I'.liT.. 'er. Patrick, of St. Thomas, Ont.
. U. Incase IUI LUC U9C UI LUCir 1 li.-
trola and all others who assisted in
making the affair such a pronounced
success.'
A Modern Ananias
"A Modern Ananias" is the play to
be given by local talent for the benefit of
the Masonic Temple fund. The dates
will be March 23 and 24 and rehearsals
are now being held regularly. The man
agement say this play will be the sensa
tion of the season and for genuine, side
splitting comedy beats anything ever at
tempted before by Morrisville local tal
ent. The cast includes many local favor
ites. Baby Week, March 4-11
The Woman's Club of Morrisville will
co-operate with the General Federation
of Woman's Clubs in observing the pe
riod beginning March 4 and ending on
March 11, as "Baby Week."
This movement, which is nation wide,
was started with the purpose of arous
ing tne people in eyery community to a
practical study of the best means of pre
serving and developing child life. Sun
day, March 5, the pastors of the several
Mr. Moore was born in County Kil
dare, Ireland, and came to this country
at the age of 16 years. For some time he
lived in Chittenden county, coming to
Hyde Park about 25 years ago, locating
on the farm now owned bv T. Besette
Disposing of that be moved into the vil
lage, purchasing the Brown house oppo.
site the hotel, where be has since resided
A few years ago be purchased the Had
ley farm, carrying that on for awhile and
then disposing ot it. He was a hard
working, industrious man, a good citi
zen and a devoted Catholic.
The funeral was held at St. Peter's
church, Rutland, Wednesday morning
and the body taken to Burlington that
afternoon for burial.
Card of Thanks. We wish to ex
press our sincere gratitude to all tbe kind
neighbors and friends for their sympathy
and assistance during the illness and bur
ial of our beloved husband and f-tther
especially those who during his iog ill
ness aided us by their kindness. Delia
A. Minor. Ieslie O. Minor, Mrs. H. A.
Knapp, Mrs. V. R. LaRnck, Mrs. Adine
C. MurcU, Mr. Ethel Latham.
A Genuine Vermont Banquet
A banquet at which everything ai
churches will speak upon the subject of n,ORt everything was the product of
"Child Welfare." Dr. Ladd, State Med- Vermont, was that given the Vermont
ical Inspector, will be here on March 8 j press Association at Burlington Friday
and lecture in the evening at the Cong'l j jast Dy the University of Vermont. The
church on "Baby Hygiene." He will
give illustrative pictures. This will be an
instructive as well as interesting lecture
and a subject in which every one should
be interested.
The Woman's Club members plan to
have displays in several stores in town
during the week, showing the best foods,
clothing, etc, for the baby.
Favors Perry Bill
Among tbe resolutions passed by the
Ginon Valley District
at Hyde Park last WeJoenday m the
following:
We believe it is nevT rinhr, to license
an evil, and we nree upon the Snndiy
School of tbe Di-'ri.r. and upn all
Christian people the grem. 1u'V r 1
pleodid opportunttj tf nm g s mighty
ictor for true teni In ir rl ,t
All interest-I the so-called "p, ," , to
j meetings March 7iu."
i
banquet was served at tbe College Gym
naseum under the direction of Prof. Ber
tha Terrill of the Domestic Science De
partment and was prepared and served
in splendid form by the young lady stu
dents. Every county in the State contrib
uted to make this Vermont dinner
possible, the products furnished being as
i follows: Addison, flour, apples and hon
jey; Bennington, ginger ale; Caledonia
! candy; Chittenden, milk, cream, cream
S. 8. A'oci;ioo ! cheese, flour, malt product, vegetables,
candy; Essex, potatoes ; Franklin, ma
ple syrup; Grand Isle, fish; Lamoille,
butternuts, maple syrup; Orange, maple
sugar; Orleans, cranberries; Rutland,
cheese; Washington, butter, crackers
' Windham, paper for menu cards and
li flflit; Windsor, apples, asparagus, tur
Veys. Ary one county could have fur
; nibbed practically everything listed.
