. FULL LEASED
WIRE DISPATCHES
CIRCULATION IS
OVER 4000 DAILY
Jf
THIRTY-EIGHTH YEAR
SALEM, OREGON, WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 2;, 1916
PRICE TWO CENTS MftcS
GERMAN CROWN PICE
SMASHES FRENCH LIS
Capture Six and a Half Miles of Trenches and 3,000 Prison
ersMaking Desperate Effort to Capture Fortress at
: Verdun Vanguard of Russian Army Near T izond
Turks Fleeing From Armenia Japanese o lleship
Fleet Reported In Mediterranean Russians i
London, Feb. 2;1). The German crown princ Baling
the greatest smash on the western front since . aking
the English Ypres lines last May, has taken nearly six
and one-half miles of French trenches near Verdun, the
Berlin war office claimed today.
This extensive offensive was aimed against the outer
defenses of the important town of Verdun, in the neigh
borhood of Consenvoye and Azannes, about 10 miles to
the north. There the Teutons not only claimed their
enormous gain of ground but they announced they had
taken .1,000 prisoners and much booty.
Following up this reputed victory, they claimed that
in another offensive move, they had captured 700 yards
of French trenches east of Heidelweiler in Alsace, and 80
prisoners. '
How terrible was the German drive was evidenced
from the Paris admission that there had been a great of
fensive around Verdun, and that the Germans had been
killed off by battalions. Paris claimed that while the
Haumont wood had been evacuated, the French had re
gained the Caures wood from which they had been
evicted yesterday. Breaking of the French salient north
of Beaumont and 10 miles northeast of Verdun was ad
mitted. Recapture of some trenches around Souchez
was claimed.
No attackof similar strength has been delivered on
either side in'the western combat for months, excepting
the French offensive in the Campagne in September. The
battle is still raging about 10 miles from Verdun on the
east bank of the Meuse, with the crown prince aiming to
force his army southward in the hope of conquering all
the outer defenses of Verdun and then bringing up his
42 centimeter guns to level the fortress.
Such a move would give the Teutons a great ad
vantage in the south as the French have threatened their
communications by retaining the Verdun stronghold.
Paris, Fell. 23. German forces are
staging n strong offensive arouml Ver
iliin, it was officially aiiuiittetl today.
M iny regiments of infantry are attack
ing along a fifteen mile front.
Tiie German attack on this strategic
1'i.nit ia the south is apparently being
pii'lied without heed to loss of life, for
eru'iMi prisoners declare that whole
; iman battalions have been annihilat
ed. French evicuntion of the Haumont
forest was admitted, but the communi
que claimed re-occupation of the ( nines
wood, which was evacuated yesterday.
Fierce attacks continue, too, in the
P.ois (livenchy region near Souchez, and
the French have succeeded in recaptur
ing several trenches. The onsluugh of
the (ierin.tn crown prince's men in the
Verdun region followed artillery prep
aration which began Sunday. The
French replied to the Teuton efforts,
iiiid brought up reserves to combat
them.
Through particularly vicious attacks,
the tlermans succeeded in occupying
the lluiimnnt woods, mid they broke the
French salient north of Heauniont and
10 miles northe.ist of Verdun.
The general offensive, begun last
Aba Martin
-
Wff'
Who remembers th' fine old lnys;,orv 0V(r ,e l)ymn n() f nu
before busing efficiency when y on j
got a few pennies back nt th meat !
uliopf It seems like th' folks who;
are nil right "when you git t' knnw
'em never have very long Minerals.
night, was designed to throw back the
whole French line.
Jap Fleet In Mediterranean.
London, Feb. 23. The admiralty to
day refused to comment on German re
ports from Italian sources that a Jap
anese fleet h.ul arrived 111 tue jueuiter
ranean.
As the story went, the Japanese ves
sels were accompanied by aeroplanes
and were apparently sent to that sec
tion in view of destruction of two Jap
anese merchantmen recently.
Unconfirmed Tokio messages decl.ired
some time ago Japanese ships had been
sent to protect the Suez canal.
Hitherto the Japanese government
has taken part in western operations,
though stories have been current that
more active Jnp.incse participations was
desired.
Gerard Shows Up.
Berlin, Feb. 211. American Ambassa
dor Gerard appeared at the embassy to
dav after having his collar bone re-set
at the hospital following an accident at
Munich. He probably will be unable to
be actively at his desk for the next six
weeks, but will supervise affairs of the
embassv.
Ask About Francis.
Washington, Feb. 23 The Rtatc de
partment has asked the Kussian gov
ernment whether ex-Governor David R.
FranciH, of Missouri, would be accept
able as ambassador to Petrograd, but
until an affirm itive reply is received,
no announcement will be made of his
appointment.
Russians Driving Turks.
Petrograd, Feb. 23. On their march
to Trebi.ond, Kussian vanguards iiave
reached point within a few miles of
Hizeh. This town is only 33 miles east
of Trebizand and the fall of the Ut
ter is not far distant, according to
Tiflis dispatches today.
Armenians, fleeing from the Christ
ian quarter of Trebiznnd outside the
walls of the city, arrived at the Rus
sian lines and reported that the Turks
are removing the valuables from the
city, evidently with no intention of
making serious resistance to tiie Slav
onslaught.
"We are continuing the pursuit of
the remnants of the Turkish forces,"
said the war office today.
Announcement of fresh successes in
the Caucasus, with demonstrations in
the Duma, preceded publication of an
'official st itemefit relating that the Rus
sians had won skirmishes on nearly fv
ierv sector from the linltie to Rumania.
This statement toll cf violent artil-
pnpmv Bero,,lail0', tlirowin
iJOJTii,a jn the Riga region.
hundred nml r'iftv oicnr.-ints of,
I
J (Continued on Page iwo;
San Francisco, Feb. 23. Fif
teen thousand miles of ocean
travel and wilderness search is
to be experienced by Professor
Enoch Morris, of Chicago, just
to secure i specimen of an un
usual variety of bat for his col
lection. Professor Morris, who left
here on the liner Sierra, made
known his plans in Honolulu ac
cording to passengers on the
steamer Lurline. lie will land
at Pago Pngu, ami in u small
boat go with a b ind of natural
ists for Gilbert group. Some
where in this section dwells the
giant bat, with a wierd latin
name. Several months and much
money will be spent in endeav
oring to capture a specimen.
!
TRY1
Score of Young Women, and
Finn of Lawyers Said to
Be In Scheme
Seattle, Wash.. Feb. 23. After an un
sucsessful all night vigil, deputy sher
iffs redoubled their efforts today to
take into custody the alleged leader of
blackmailers, who, with headquarters
here, are said to have "badgered"
some of the most prominent and
wealthy men of the Pacific coast out of
thousands of dollars during the past two
years.
The man sought is a former financial
agent and lawyer, who is said to have
worked in collusion with a firm .f at
torneys and a score of attractive young
wnnv.':i, in getting phjtog.-; hs'nf vic
tims :n compromising sit Mticn.-i.
A i Inst night (l;u y sheriff's U y
c an .i e.l nenr the no iu of hu ir.np
so ii,h t. watching every entrant .vith
O'll. m cess,
l'ltttcvtor Luiidin lias refused to is
si;; '. virraut for the liunnciiil agents'
ar-'st Mieriff lIo.i,;c instructed Vs
met. to t. lie hhn into custody n-.twith
sti" d lig.
epuri'mg to Depiy Siic!::'f M. F..
K-l'ley, wl ose invest:'inti ns led In the
exposures of the alleged "badger"
game, the financial agent is the man
who operated the camera iu almost ev
ery instance, and who developed the
negatives which were sold for fabulous
sums to the victims.
Word was received by Sheriff Hodge
from Los Angeles today, that Miss Isa
bel Clnyberg, arrested in that city by
Sheriff Cline yesterday, as f.n nileged
member of the syndicate, nus engaged
an attorney and is preparing to resist
extradition.
Mifu Lillinn Peterson, another woman
wanted ia connection with the case, was
in Billings, Mont., up to Sunday, ac
cording to advices received by Sheriff
Hodge from Sheriff F. W. Jlatloek, of
killings.
Si"Cf tint time bIio has mvstcriouVr
disappeared. Deputy Sheriff Ilnily lay's
ue sj.isj intormation that her fuince is
one of the wealthiest cattlemen in Jlon-
t ma.
O i !ast Thursday a telegram was .( i.t
to Shi' -iff Matlock uskine him to rente
Miss I'.lirson and keep her limit sur
veillance. Ho replied the following
day. that she had been found and
Hodge immediately wired:
"Keen her within your reach. Act
quietly."
Yesterday Matlock wired: "Miss Pe
terson left on the 2(lth for parts un
known." Hodge has today wired several other
points in his search for the woman.
Most of the alleged gang's opera
tions here are said to have been con
ducted in a bungalow on Twentieth ave
nue.
At this house the camera was located
in a clothes closet. A hole had been
bored through the wnll into an adjoin
ing bedroom, so that the cameraman
had a clear vitw of what went on there.
The gang is said to have worked in ho
tels and in other houses in differei.t
pairs of the city.
Stock Market Sluggish
Berlin Exchange Drops
(Copyright lltlO by the New York
Evening Post.)
ew York, Feb. 23 The stoci
market moved today in the same de
sultory and uncertain manner that it
did in the past three or four business
days. Those stocks that moved at, all
appeared to do so because of peculiar
local influences, while none of the
movements were of particular signifi
cance small decliiu-h anil recoveries
occurring simultaneously though these
were unrelated.
The most interesting event of the
day was the dtclnrntion by one Du
pont company of a 19 per cent dividend
on common stock, payable in Anglo
French bonds. Such a method of pay
ment was unprecedented though it
merely indicated that munitions corn-
panics have subscribed a considerable
amount to the allied $.j0O,nOO,QUQ loan,
The half point decline in Merlin ex-
I change to 3 7 8 dieted no particular
) explanation.
CHINESE GUNMEN
I
Fired On Latter As He Came
Out of Restaurant In
Business District
FIRED SECOND SHOT IN
VICTIM'S HEAD AND FLED
Chinese' Laiuidryman at Rose
burg Murdered Chinese
Stay Indoors
Portland, Ore., Feb. 23. A Chinese
gunman shot and (killed Yin Luck, aged
M, at o o clock t$is morning when Yin
l.uck came out of a restaurant in the
heart of the business district to sweep
i ue siuewaiK.
A taxicab driver cave chase to the
highbinder who did the shooting, and
drove him into the arms of a policeman
three blocks away. He gave his name
as Ah Low, viaid'he was 44 vears old
and desired to speak to his attorney.
ne spoue excellent English and was
wen dressed.
The shooting of Yin Luck is the thin
disastrous clash between tong gunmen
in rornaiui since war broke out be
tween the Hop Sings and an alliance of
the now- Leongs, Biug Kongs and Suey
Sings.
In Chinatown the orientals remained
behind bolted doors. But this morning
for the first time in history a gun
man invaded the business district of the
city to do his deadly work. Supposing
ine tong war tuny to blocks away, Yin
Luck, a janitor, boldly went on t'he
open sidewalk after sweeping out a
restaurant. The ghbinder was hiding
in a dark doorwajrr He fired once and
Yin l.uck dropped. .Placing the muzzle
of his revolver at the prostrate man's
head the tonginan again pulled the tn
ger. Then he fled, i.ursucd bv a taxi-
cab driver.
This happened while negotiations
were in progress for peace. Tongmen
asserted yesterday that a truce had
been declared.
"Bunk" said Captain of Detectives
Bnty, and doubled his guard of plain
clothes men in Chinatown.
The killing of Yin Luck happened af
ter two preliminary peace meetings had
been held with District Attorney rJvans
presiding. Tho only trouble with the
pence meetings ycuterdny afternoon and
last night was that they were held in
Hop Sing headquarters and the enemies
of the Hop Sings wouldn't come.
The "Chinese Fords" from San
Francisco were expected in Portland
today and may be able to arrange a
permnnent peace. But the shooting of
Yin Luck and the murder of another
Chinese in Roseburg yesterday makes
peace seem far away.
A Eosebnrg Victim.
Roseburg. Ore., Feb. 23. The brutal
murder of Lee Faut, a Chinese laundry
man, was committed by robbers who
sought to cover their crime with the
cloak of the tong war raging on the
Pacific coast between the Hop Sing and
allied Bow Leong, Bing Kong and Suey
Sing tongs.
This was the belief of officers who,
nevertheless, kept a strict watch on
Chinatown todny.
Lee Faut was found Intc yesterday iu
his little laundry. His head was badly
battered, his throat cut from ear to ear,
and a wicked looking dagger stuck in
his abdomen. A bloodstained hatchet
lay nearby. His little hoard of savingB
was gone.
Fleeing From Seattle.
Tacoma, Wash., Feb. 23. Nearly a
hundred Chinese, members of th Hop
Sing tong, are seeking refuge here to
dny, after having fled from Heattio and
Portland, where further tong war kill
ings arc feared by the celestials. Police
have been asked to give the fugitives
protection from Bow I.eong guirmen
who they fear may follow them to ex
act tong vengeance.
The Hop Sings began arriving here
shortly after the outbreak of hostili
ties at Portland. Some are quartered
with fellow tongmen, but the greater
number are huddled together in a va
cant store room on lower Broadway.
All strange Chinese are being close
ly watched by the police, ar.d all those
found with firearms in their possession
will be arrested.
One Under Arrest.
Seattle, Wash., Feb. 23 Chinese tong
war activities centered todny On the
legal fight brewing around Yee Bow,
accused by the polit:e of shooting Y. I'.
Park, a Korean, a week ago.
Former Assistant I'nited States At
torney ,f. .1. Sullivan, employed to de
fend him by friends who say that im
ported gunmen did the shooting, has
obtained a writ of habeas corpus from
Judge Ronald.
States attorneys will try and show
cause he tdiould not be released from
jail.
YOUNG I LUCK
WHY GASOLINE 18 UP
Sin Francisco, Feb. 23. With
gasoline prices ascending to lux
i lions heights, the Standard Oil
company of California is prepar
ing today to distribute a 30 per
cent stock dividend, in addition
to its regular 2.30 per share
quarterly divided, due March
J3. Tho 30 per cent "melon"
rated on the present quotations
moms retribution of more than
.f'.,'t,(iOO,0(iO, though, as author
ized by the state corporation
commissioner at Sacramento,
the dividend is if'23,000,000.
LEFT PUSSY A STAKE
Philadelphia, Feb. 23. An angora
cat, known as "Mrs. Pussv" received
41,000 under the will os "Mrs. K. T.
Stewart.
THAI
Chinese Carried Loaded Re
volvers But Claim To Be
Agents of Cannery
Two Chinese armed with loaded re
volvers and who are thought to be gun
men involved in the tong war that is
now breaking out nlong the Pacific
coast were arrested by tho Salem po
lice lust night as they came through
this city on a passenger train at 1 :55
a. m. The men gave the names Charley
So and Sing Hong when they were book
ed on a chnrge of carrying concealed
weapons at the police station. The Port
land authorities were notified of the
arrest of the Chinese anil Captain Bitty,
of the Portland detective force, asked
that the men be held until officers from
Portland could look them over.
In jail today So and Bong do not
appear to be particularly hostile and
say that they were only out to employ
men for a fish cannery. One of them
enrried about .1X0 nnd tho other about
.1i30 in cash and thev stated that c
money was to be used for the employ
ment of Chinese labor.
Charley So and Sing Bong were both
taken from the southbound train wl'-
reaches this city at 1:35 a. ni. The
officers have been on the lookout nt
both depots for strange Chinese since
the tong war has been started on the
coast and Inst night their vigilence
was rewarded by finding the two gun
men. The Chinese arrested carried re
volvers of one of the best models, a
.32 caliber and both arms wero londed
and oiled for action. When arrested!
the Chinese made no resistance but tidd
the officers that they were going to
Albany to hire men to work in a can
nery. Their tickets were purcliir.-ied in
Portland for Albany.
On one of the men was found a sheet
of pnper bearing the address of the
Bing Kong tong headquarters iu Sac
ramento, Stockton, Fresno and Los An
geles and also the address of Ying Shing
Lung in Seattle. Both of the men de
clared that they were foi" peace nt any
price but the officers were inclined to
doubt their story about being employ
ment agents for a Sntmon cannery as
men in this business seldom carry load
ed revolvers.
Sheriff Willinni Kseh and Chief of
Police J. T. Welsh made a thorough
search of the Chinese quarters in this
city last night but fniled to find any
trace of gunmen wanted in Portland or
Roseburg. Their senrch revealed sev
eral secret hiding places but in none
of them was found any suspicious or
strange Chinese. The Salem orientals
appear to be bearing out their asser
tions that they are nrurrnf and are not
looking for trouble.
The Chinese quarter was surrounded
by police officers ami the sheriff ami
the chief conducted tho search person
ally and left no stone unturned to lo
cate tho Chinese wanted for the tong
murders but they are convinced today
that Salem has not been ohosr n as a
hiding place by the wilv murderers.
Cliarlev So and Sing Hong were each
fined $10 in police court today on a
charge of carrying concealed weapons
and their revolvers confiscated. They
are being held, however, upon the ad
vice of Chief Clark, of Portland, pend
ing the arrival of Portland officers.
E
Prince and Wife's Foster
Daughter Startle Fashion
ables at the Beach
New York, Feb. 23. That Mrs
Aimee Crocker, weulthv former Cali
fornian, realized the foil v of mating
ago with youth, almost before her gar
honeymoon was ended, was the claim
of her liusbiind, Prince Miskinoff to
day in resuming testimony In their
separation case.
She had reeatcilly accused him of
(Continued From. Page One.)
RELATIONS
IM OE
President May Announce to Congress His Desire to Break
Diplomatic Relations With Germany Bernstorff Re
ported To Be Instructed to "Play for rimewEnglari
Also Getting In Bad Odor On Account of Violating Her
Pledges and Attempting to Deceive the United States
i
Washington, Feb. 2:. President Wilson's appearance
before congress within the next few days to announce a
desire to break off diplomatic relations with Germany was
forecasted todayby high administration authorities.
This action is certain to result, one official said, if Ger
man intimations are correct that Foreign Secretary Von
Jagow's instructions to Ambassador Von Bernstorff will
be to play for further delay in settlement of the Lusi
tania case, and for a long discussion of technicalities in
the matter of the German proclamation of warfare
against armed merchantmen.
The Von Jagow instructions are expected to reach.
Von Bernstorff within the next two days.
An authority, generally regarded as reliable declares
that the president intends to make his refusal to tempor
ize in .the situation so emphatic that no doubt can re
main as to his purpose to require closing of the Lusitania
incident according to his original demands.
Since Germany is not expected to withdraw her armed
merchantman decree, it was pointed out that the only
course left open to the president is to cut off diplomatic
relations. This would meait handing Ambassador Von
Bernstorff his passports, and the consequent withdrawal
of Ambassador Gerard from Berlin.
It is declared that President Wilson is committed to
a policy of firmness but does not desire to take the step
of breaking relations without first presenting the matter
to congress. This idea is said to explain the long confer
ence Monday night between President Wilson, Senate
Leader Kern, Chairman Stone, of the senate foreign com
mittee, and Chairman Flood of the house foreign commit
tee. These persons have not discussed the subject of their
conference, except that one conferee indicated his own
personal apprehension that certain of the courses con
sidered might lead to war.
The idea of breaking diplomatic relations is said to ex
plain, too, why Senator Stone called off his projected
speech in defense of the administration foreign policy.
While administration circles took a
gloomy view of the situation, it was
suggested that publicity of the govern
ment s views might prevent a break.
Even if President Wilson decides to
take the question of a rupture to con
gress, it was pointed out that there
would be sufficient time between deliv
ery of his message and any congression
al action thereon for Oermany to "see
the light" .ind to correct her policy.
At any rate, officinls said that the
president is done with parleying. Al
ready his recent vigorous activities
have caused collapse of the democratic
agitation for issuance of a wnruing to
Americans to keep otf .irmect merchant
men.. Democrats fostering tiie plan
have not changed their idea about it,
but their desire to press such a resolu
tion has disappeared inasmuch as they
have learned the White House would
not support them.
Has England Broken Faith?
Washington. Feb. 23. Whether Kng-
land iias broken filth with the I'nited
States and thereby complicated the (Jcr-
mnn-Ainericnn submarine situation, was
a new question Injected into the con
troversy today. Apropos or tins it was
Pointed out that the British Ambassa
dor Sir Cecil Spring-Rice in August,
Mill wrote Secretary ot situte liryjn
thnt Foreign Secretary tlrcy has given
tho "fullest assurances ' that mer
chantmen would not fire on submarines
unless attacked by the latter.
Oermany now claims Kngl.tnd has a
secret order to mereiiantmen either to
flee or fire at submarines upon sight.
If Kngland's tdedge in this respect
has been violated, an American protest
to lingliind is probable. While Secre
tary of State Lansing has continually
held that negotiations with belliger
ents must be separate and that deal
ings with ono side shall not be contin
gent upon the policy of the other, he
may demand fulfillment of F.ngluud's
promises should tiie Berlin evidence
now en route prove the existence of the
alleged secret British orders.
Ambassador Von Bernstorff expects
to receive before Saturdiy instructions
from Berlin as to his course townrd the
LaiiHing notice th.it America regards
ss illegal the Teuton decree of warfure
against armed merchantmen.
Meantime, both the state department
und the embassy believe that the chance
of (jerinany 's postponement of opera
tion of the decree is remote.
Wiiile the subiii.ii ine situation is in
statu quo, congressmen are showing
President Wilson evidence of a big pro
pagnmln to force an embargo on muni
tions and issuance of n warning to Am
ericans to keep off armed merchantmen.
They reported receipt of letters, cards,
pamphlets ami p ipers in support of such
STRAINED
REE
steps and said that there was even lob
bying on thejloor of congress iu fuvor
of it.
Complaints against shipments of mu
nitions cited that 113 men had been
killed by a single American made tor
pedo, while hundreds had been killed or
maimed by a single shell sent to the li
lies. El
Russian Foreign Minister
Thinks This May Come at
Least In Part
London, Feb. 23. Partial disarm
ament may be piuuible, nfter the, war,
according to At. Snzonotr, Kussian
foreign minister, us quoted in a Petro
grad dispatch to the Chronicle today.
"If Prussian militarism, that evil
thing which darkened our lives so long,
is finally destroyed as I firmly believu
it will he, then I think some measur
of disarmament may bfc possible," ha
was quoted as saving. "It should be
quite possible, for with F.ngland ancj
Russia; friends, the rest of the worlj
is safe.
"Kngland, France and Russia arB
responsible now for the future of Ku-
(Continued on Page Two.) .
: THE WEATHER
Oregon: Fair to
night and Thurs
day; northeaster
ly winds.
T
