. i
THE WEATHER FORECAST."
Rain to-day; warmer and northeast
winds to-morrow.
Highest temperature yesterday, 45; lowest, 3flS
Detailed weather, mall and marine reports on ptape 14,
IT SHINES FOP, ALL
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 211.
NEW YORK, WEDNESDAY, MARCH 29, 1916.
Corokf, 1918, by the Sun Printing and Publishing Annotation.
PRICE TWO CENTS.. I
..
WAITE ADMITS
CAUSING DEATH
OF MRS. PECK
Mimler of Wife's Mother as
Well sis Her Father
Confessed.
1UMVKX TO KILL J5V
K VI L SPIRIT WITHIN
Tells Swaim "Had 3Ian
From Kgj'Pt"' Possessed
Him for Years.
KMJI.AL.MKK IS SOUliHT
AS HIS AIC03LTLICK
h-kniicr Sa.vs He Gave $9.
nno for Fake Fmbalm
iny Fluid as Alibi.
, hrrt time after Dr. Arthur Warien
Walte nude, a new confession admitting
thss he killed not only John E. Peck
i'-t M;j. l'eck as well District At
'ine Swami and member if his staff
.1 detectives went last night to the
eine of L'ugcne Oliver Kane, on em
ujlmo:, living at V:7 West Fifty-seventh
f reel, to arrest Kane on a charge of
.1 F ... . T . At.. I. ... nnn
, ' ' . '. "''""
.i.-i, in r-ar i.iiseiy. in case, or nr.
Wade s am st and trial for the murder, I
Kane, who pu-pared the body of
M
Peik for burial in Dr. Walte's
'i 'trside Drive iipattinent, had used :
cnl- in the embalming lluld.
Assistant District Attorneys Man
.jio and Dootlug left Kane's homo ut
midnight after they had become con
linced by talks with .Mrs. Kane, that the
fmlulmer was with a friend, a light
houje keeper known only as "Charley,"
Orient Point, 1.. 1. As soon na It
as learned that Kane would stay at '
I.
orient Point all night detectives were
.nit there hurriedly In an automobile.
Orient Point Is near Grcenport. Mr.
Bwann's assistants said before going
home for the night that Kane would
b broucht Into town on a Long Island 1
train an ing here at ? 34 o'clock this
iiiomiiiL .ir.ii n-tti i. ti.iien in n. 111.
trlct Attorney's office Immediately. He
left heie In lm own small motor car yes-i
Urrtay morning early after sitting up
ari talking late with his wife.
He told his assistant before leaving
l.at he was "going out on n Job." lie
tarried no clothes, baggage or otlifr,we 5W ln ln', l'.'T, , t i,"
par.-eis The detectives say that they
. iov what became of the $9,000 and
where the money Is now, but would not
'i "r,to fuither details.
Til- Wait,., told Judge Swann late es
r .iv a 'ternoon at licllevue. In answer
Judge Swann's question "Did you
e I'.noo to Kane ii a telephone booth
n a cigar store In West Flftyeventh
'it rear tho southeast corner of
'.IT IMU SOUtllCaSt Corner Of
, 1 enue a week ago yesterday,
rwi nn oriv agieed. according to Dr. I
" In swear in rase of a trial that'
're h n been arsenic In the embalming 1
i 'l. tiui he alo us to prepare some
'' iM'mlng lluul containing arsenic and !
'urn t over to Judge Swium whenever I
e .,1-e ag-ilnst Dr. Walte then at
"') should glow serlouri.
At Kane's houe last night District At.
:n, Swann found Kane's regular for-'
aula for preparing his embalming mix.
ure It against the law to use ar--nic
'n an embalming fluid. Tho for--i
a found In Kane's house by the DIa.
t Attorney contained no urscnlc.
Killed xira. 1'rck Also.
U.e ihargo of "conspiring to defeat
f. ni ls of Justlie" which sent the au
thor uh slurrying to arret-t Kar. was
tn res, in of (l talk which District At-
' "i". Swarm had with Dr. Walto earlier
n "le day. shortly after tho dentist
' astounding co4'esslon to a detec-
v had -aid that he had killed not
r,V . JVh. ,f,ck ,,v l-olsonlng him
" ead killed Mrs. Peck also by plac
' various deadly disease germs In her
' - id al-o using chloroform upon her.
both these crimes nnd othem of
"ss serious nature were dune. Dr.
n said, l,eerfu.se for some yean
" Nis Dad within him nnotner par.
HI", "a bad man from ..gypt," who.
"i'lte tho dentist's struggles agalnut
' "kid Kgyiitlan. rriiido Dr. Walte
,1 tv.'tli of ,i wife'n parents.
Tie story of tho payment of 19,000
o hat, p perjure himself came from
w Wanes Hps to Judge Bwann after
'. District Mtornry already had In nls
'""t"-''. on significant facts showing that
aiie, unci he learned that the
''.'t.'elt.s were on tho eve of accusing
of - unlrrlng Mr Peck, had hastily
"'can under suspicious circumstances
'' 300 from the I'nlverslty branuh of
v urn i;ciiange. Hank
' ago ,,st Sunday, or the day
"r tir W.iite had returned from his
' I' w.'n t ie i,h of Mr. Peck to Grand
Mpidi, he lagan hit negotlatlona to
istrif to swear that there was
'"fins m the embalming fluid.
Vow te me, doctor," wbh the ques
' J" wlncli District Attorney Hwann
-;s") lir Waite ill Hellevue last night
"Ifr th demist, at first aTecting not to
now Jinig,. Swarm, hud rambled on about
Kid man from Kgypt Inside tilm
io hdd nnii him commit crime, "did
hdv any accomplices?"
Kane Venlooed a Accnmpllisp,
'Only Kane, wlio embalmed Mr. Peck'a
'""iv ' answeieil Dr, Walto, "and of
'Mi.e tnat i ,hii from Kgypt Inside
w noiii I was unable to control."
Then from Dr. Walte himself District
Jvitirney Kw.mn learned what had been
J?"' 'I'm In some detail by Uuitave
iniiuti , owner of tho garage at 2906
"'Oadwav where Dr. Walto has been
,"l""g Ids car for four month, con
Jt.iuiig lr cashing of the check to ob
' n Hie leady money which the dentist
"in hdiii !!iv,.,ie(,
, week g Sunday." Dr. Walte told
rJ'Y'- Swann, "or the day after I cot
'Jl' ' 'in Grand Haplds, Kane called at
'I'li'liuenls In Itlverslde Drive Io
Cum 1 1 n tied on bait fait.
ROOSEVELT'S SECRETARY SAY LEMON TARIFF
GETS 30 DAYS IN JAILfMf COST $140,000
John W. McGrath Convicted of Assault in Saloon Brawl
Colonel, His Name Kept Hidden Almost Nine
Months, Will Stand by Employee.
Jnlin V. McGrath. private secretary
to Col. Itooscvelt, known In the Colonel
, nil all other good Progressives as Mae,
was sentenced in the Ciniit of Special
Sessions, Hrookl) n, yesterday to serve
thirty (Ihjh In the workhouse. With 111
cousin, William Powers, who lecelved
the samo sememe, h waa accused of
assault In the third degree on Charles
I.lghte. Jr., of 4S. Knstern Parkwuy,
HrooUlyn. The two prisoners spent last
night In the Itaymond street Jail nml
will be tuUeii to lllnckw ell's Island this
morning.
Col. Itooscvelt will stand by McGr.ith.
He said nt Ojster Uay yesterday. "He
will continue In my employ exactly as
If this had not happened, with entirely
undiminished trust and regard on my
part." lie believes McGrath told him
the truth In saying that he Juiniwd Into
the tight only to protect a woman.
The charge weie the result of a fight
In the back room of u Brooklyn saloon
on June 11. l'.'l.".. McGrath at all times
Rate his right name, but did not let It
bo known that he was Col. Roosevelt's
secretary. He did his loyal best to "keep
the Colonel's name out of It," and sue
cetded for nearly nine months. In court
, yesterday he was compelled to give the
name of his employer, and to the amaze.
ment of ever) body except his counsel.
John .1. Hatpin, he replied, "Theodora
llooacvelt."
Astonished It) sentence.
As I.lghte, the complainant, had
emerged from the fracas with a broken
leg that kept him in bed for ten wicks
Justices Salmon, Garvin and Kdwards
did not give McGrath and Towers an
opportunity of paying a fine Instead of
going to Jail.
McGrath. who teslitled that he
slrucK " "'i g' o tue row
only to separate two embattled women,
hail expected to get off with nothing
more than it rprimand. His nstoiilsh
ment when Presiding Justice .Salmon
fald "Thirty das" was hecond only to
that of tlie Judgis themselves when they
heard that the amiable little defindant
was the same Johnny Mc Grain who for
two years haa been considered Invalu
able to Cot. Koosevclt and the Progres
sive party. When the curious news
readied National Progressive headquar
ters somebody there telephoned to one
of ,hc tfPeolnI Sessions clerks asking:
"lm vnti siita It'M nor John MrCSr.it h
"No doubt of It." the clerk replied.
"Won't you discrlbo the prisoner,
plense.
uv,,rt itliimrt rntltiil f.'ieeil. smllfntf
cluiii with dark hair nml n little mus-1
.en.. "
"Well, that must be our Mac said the I
voice at Progressive heailquartcts. out
1'" '" lianged If 1 can understand It.
MeGrath'H counsel, who ban acted for
,,lm hi,Kf M linv'1- Jolin '"alpln
t Hi" nrm of Ilowers A; samN. who
w're "oo-evelt ..ttonieys in the
"'" 'u"'. "V' Halpln tried to
last nlcht but couldn't get In. To-rta
he will tty :o take an apixal. nnd per
haps to have his client released on a
certificate of te.isonablo doubt.
Charles I.lghte, the complainant. !
secretary of I.lghte & llro., dealers In
mineral water", of SO'." Hast Seventeentli
street. Manliai'tan. He was In court,
t ',,, nUht t Julle ,, !IHt .jear
j"j i.ighte wentkito the sitting
. ... .. ,e ,.,,.1
... .. --I...... ... I,.r. ..venue mill
u, jark's avenue, not far from f.elr
i,m ,o iret n class of beet. McGrath,
powers and Mrs. Powers w're seated at
u table near bj. Mrs. I.ishte said to
her hUHband: ' ,harley. It's qu.uVr
past 3, and we're going to have a late
supper." Then, according to I.lghte,
McGrnth spoke up. saying "That's
right. Stick up for your eiits, stick up
for votir rights."
According to Mghte. Powers dilmcil In
with an Insult directed atolls, l.lgntc.
Followed a tight. In which, said I.lghte,
he was kicked as wen as n.aieo i n
fists
and ithen was throw n across a cnair
and a table. He found hlmseJf on the
.A. ..... n 1
floor with his leg broken
fracture above the knee.
Mrs, I.lghte save about th"" same lew
ttnionv. She said tint Powers struck
her while McGrath sat In a chair using
lliiCl langllllKe Hint r.ijiiih ,"- -
to got u policeman. When l.er husband
fell she chased Powers Into the street.
where, she said, he ku-ked l.er 111 tin-;
ace and rolled her Into the gutter. She
got ui" and a boy helped her tun after
I'nuers until n Dnicemiin grnoueii mo,
quarry. McGrath made no attempt to
o,..., lr.M l.lelil.. said that ftlllll
The .Mlonti her husband nil taken to I
the Swedish Hospital, and then to their
home, where he was an Invalid for ten
WMlfi I
nr of Ilie I'liilil.
The prisoners testified in then- own
behalf, being questioned by Mr. Halpln
and cross-examiiicu o .imibihih o- .
.i iM.t.n.t. ru'iinl t'nnnsr. McGrath
mild lie visited his cousin on Juno II, i
1015. and Inten.lf.l to get a 9:ln train i
foe Ovster llav. where be live.. Finding
Jio couldn't get to the station ill time he i
went with Powers Into the saloon to
telephone to III) wire that lie wouni
board the next train. Then he and Poiv.
ers sat down In the buck room to have
a glass or two of beer while they were
waiting. Mrs. Power vvas with them
McGrath Untitled lti.it Mr. nnd Mr
Llgsto were quarrelling when they -m-tenxl
the cafe. He said the Llghle
spoke to hi. party and started the
trouble. He Insisted that Mrs. I.lghte
slapped Povvera'a face and tore his col
lar off, whereupon Powers told Llglite
to keep Mr.. Llghto away. Light-, said
McGrath, refused to Interfere, and
struck Powers. Thereupon Powers wept
after Llghto and knocked him over the
ehulr nnd tabic. McGrath did pot deny
that he used b lists, but ho said he
did not gey Into the fight until Mrs.
I.lghte thritcned Mrs, Powers. Ilo de
nted that he struck Mrs. Llghto.
When Assistant District Attorney
Cooper asked McWrath what hi. occu
pation was the young Hooscvtltlnn re
plied that he was n stenographer and
gave the address r,: Knst Seventy-ninth
street, Mr, Cooper pressed him with
u query ni to the Identity of Id em
ployer. Mr. Halpln Instantly nhjocled,
but waa overruled by the presiding Jus
tice Then McGrath replied "Tho Nu
tlonal Progressive Party" which Is
true, for ho works for the party us well
as for the Colonel.
Mr. Cooper, not content with Unit, and
perhaps suspecting who this "John v,
McGrath" really was, asked lilm, wauled
to know, If lie had any other employer.
McGrath looked appealing nt hla law
yer, who ajraln vainly tried Io get the
twart te take the view that this sort of
j Inquiry waa Irrelevant. .Mo "Mac." com-
pencil to answer or be guilty of con
tempt, teplled that he was Col. Itoose
veil's secretary
Although McGrath and I 'owe is were
arrested on Juno II last year they were
not examined before a .Magistrate urn
t II October It Magistrate Naumer held
them for felonious assault, hut litres
days later the Grand Juiy changed the,
chaige to assault In the third degree.
.-.nice men tnc cousins have been free
In 1. 0l0 bail apiece. .Moiirath gave ai
ball bond pioperly that he owns at 102
Hancock street and 30:.' Jefferson
street, worth JPI.OOO,
.YiVir.S" ANGERS COLONEL.
Snsn Sccrcliir-.' Wini'l lam-, .lob He.
cause nf sentence.
OTsTl.lt Hat. I.. I., March US News
that John MrGrntli, his secretary, had
been sentenced t jail came to Col.
Itooscvelt as a snocl. this afternoon.
, , . ,
It in. ni, the Colonel mad through and
through, and he wald he would stand by
McGrath and that his secretary would
not lose his Job on this account.
Air. .Mod rath told me he wax in a
restaurant," said the Colonel, "and that
he had nothing to do with the assault
rxce-ii in try to luterfeie to save a
woman from beljig hutt. P rsonally
I believe him absolutely.
"He has been associated w.!h me now
for nearly four ears In the closest
relation, and I have felt I could not
only have abolute confidence In his
energy and ability, hut in his straight
forward Integrity. He will contUiue In
my employ exactly as If this had not
happened. Itti entirely undiminished
irut ami reiraid on my pan."
As soon as Col. Itoowjvelt heard from
Hrookln that a Jail sentence had been
imposed on .McGrath he Immediately
communicated with Mrs. McGrath, and
with his tecretary through a lawyer.
It was also learned that arransements
wen made u a hurry to engage Kobrrt
II. I.iiler, former Assistant District At
torney of Mrooklyn, to look after Mc
tirath In the Interct-t of h!.i tmplojer.
George W. Perkins, chairman of the
executive committee of the National
Progressive patty, was with the Colo-
lie I at the time Mr. Perkins decided
not to make any public statement re- , the other the Societ.i Argum.irla Paler
Ranting .McGrath. although the Colonel's , mltan.i. I.oth have headquarters at
secretin)- found his first work In this Palermo.
country when he came here from' Canada The nun engaged In the buMness of
through Mr. Perkins and the Progressive Importing the cltruw fruits of Sicily Into
National Committee. (the port of New- York are banded to.
Of late McGrath ha been actliiR sec. ' Kether as the Fruit Importers Cnlon.
retary of the executive committee of Tide body lias been In existence about
the party. He lins always been a hard thlrty-fl c eats mid Is Incorporated
worker and n Flnrwil diagnostician of under the laws of the State of -New
polltlcnl affairs, so wise beyond his Vitk. Frank Zlto Is prr-ddent : Cirl llrann,
) ears twentv -six that Col. Iloosevelt llrst vice-president; S. Amarosa. cond
waa struck by his efficiency and Imme- vlcc-prealclent. nnd P. Sclortlno. treaurer.
dlately Inswted upon having
him as i
"I" wti private serretarv
.n.i.r.nii mwaj i.een a tnaq nltr
Hie i olmiel own heart Me ban been
a sturdy devotee of the Colonel, u
rugged little Canadian who was one of
the be,t hockey ilaer.i .ne famou.v
Wanderers ever had.
STORK TO VISIT HOME
OF RICHARD GROKER
iimmnny Chief. Now
I. MiiithmI luilian
, ,
AlTI't 7
I'riiiiM'ss in MM I.
lrl,nl tnlAr Itt'lfX')' lit Tue M
I.OM.O.V, March An interesting
report mniM from Dublin. It 'is that a
visit of tlie stork is expected soon at
the Glencalrn home of Klcliaid Crokir,
the former Tammanv chief.
It.iiiard i inker was married in M1S
Hula ltentoli IMluondson. a professional
si..er. of om-uuart.- Indlati i.i....,i ....
v.. .: ,.. e, . ' "
i'l I. Tlie leremonv was
P-rformi d a' th
hn.ne of NntiniM st.aus,
.i vve.-i .-eveniy.seniiiii street. Mr.
and Mrs. .Vok.r went ,o Palm Head,
for the.r honeMiiopn and sailed for their
j"', ;,;"'
r utt I,..,,... ,i f ... I i
.-, .niii.i on .Mini I
.. ,.,.,1..,, j ,,i.i ,,
-J'r " ' ''' 4 1 ' "" His first
' 1 '." fl11"1,"11 S' !"
"''"'"'j: r" " '-" Uv. Austria There
re five chililien l.v Mr. Crnkefs first
"!nr'-',
..- .iu.e
sons. Frank Ctnlter. who was killed In!
... ,...., ,,i.ii, i.i,.m n,.
in K'Ot . Unbelt, who dle.l shortly after
in K'01. Ilnbcit. who died shortly after-
ward on a tt.iln near Kansas 1'ltj, and
III. H ird Croktr. Jr
.Mrs I'tol.er is 21 jean. ,,M i,n H.r
tno'.ilel's sale S,H Is tile Cherokee Frill-
,ns.s Sequoiili "n Her fathers sldt
.-lie is a descendant of Lotd Montgomery,
Kail of l.gllntoii. wiio co.uma.iiliil the
Norman fofecs at tl battle of Hast.
"
FOOD LEFT FOR SHACKLET0N
sti ninsliln iirurn lleporl. I.nii.llni;
iiillc III xnlnrelle.
. .. a. ., .o.; , r.... s
sp,.,, ,,.,.,i,r ,. rut Mv,
Lo.srsis, Maroli .R. A further wire-
less me, sage w as lecelved at Melbourne
Hi-da.v from tin' steamship Aurora, which
'!;"', '.' 1 " '"'"' ,U"" ,tr.-1 '" I'"''-' i
:" '"" " '" " ",r r"J- "ir .
despatch say
"Two months htor- weie left at Gut
Point for tlie uutelurncd patty. Heady
storce. old) were lauded for them at
Cap l.tann .Ml sledging rations were
landed.
"The parn ,s -Imi t of fue and cloth
Ing Tlie ship had meagre stores. The
ciew's diet dinliig the drift was penguins
and seale. Them were suillclent stoic
previously at Capo I. vans.
"We experienced bad weather. Rxpeet
to arrive rarl.v In April,"
Will Aid .Search tnr Mine Melon,
Spmrl Cahle Hni'UltS to Tin Si ,
1iMioN, March '.'b, Lieut, Gran, a
Norwegian member of the supporting
party which followed Capt. Scott's Ant
arctic, expedition and found the bodies of
Scott and IiIn companions, has oiTcred
to Join any relief expedition that may
be sent to the aid of Shuckletoii,
Lieut. Oian on July SI, 1!H, Hew In
an aeroplane from Crmleu Hay, Aber
deenshlre, across the North Sea to Klep,
ten 'tulles from Stavnnger, Norway, In
four bourn utid (eu minutes. He made
an average of seventy-six miles an hour.
He called the trip "the beginning of a
great Atlantic night"
Row Among Importers From
Sicily Hrings Out Tnle of
Costly Lobby.
HKKI. ADMITS SKItVICK
Republican, Who Fought for
Wilson, Wants S7.-i.000
More Paid to Him.
Internal dissensions In the fruit Im
porters Cnlon, an organization of lm
poittrs of citrus fruits from Sicily, have
brought forth the revelation that a fund
said by one side to be $140,000 nnd by
the other to be little more than 1100,
000 wai raised to obtain a reduction
of the duty on Sicilian lemons In the
Underwood tariff act.
The entire troubles to-day aie u sequel
to that successful campaign, through
which the duty was lowcied from SI -0
' 11 M'Hllt ?,T' F"U
, Now William C. Heer.
. activities, has bronchi
utti.
a man of many
activities, has brought suit for $".",.000
balance due on bin promotion contract,
which led up to the reduction of the
tariff, and arlous members of the urimn
are demanding an accounting of the ex
I pendltures In the campaign. They are
i nl" -Hlng for an annual meeting and
election, wnen, tney uecjare, a new set
of otllcers will be elected anil a thoiough
Investigation made.
Harsh Words Hate llrrn .alil.
There are all sorts of allegation or
denials In the
dispute. Harsh words
aid. . Some or.e I,
have been
accused of having said that soi.vj or.e
else waa "In strong" In Washington, or
was not strong, and that thli or that
.n,l..n,n . f..i.,nM. niif.vnfiM.,
, There are tale, of a propaganda to
turn the 2.000,000 Italian votes In thl
i countrj to Woodrow Wilson In 1!II
, nnd of a room full of petitions at Wash-
Ington. On the other hand there Is a
"hint that the California lemon growers!
are stirring up all the t.uss In order b
are stirring up all the t.uss In order t'
have the Slc-.iaii lemon duty restored.
There Is a bill f..r th.V .UrtKe bef.ne
Congrrss now
The fruit groAe s o' S.ci'.yare divided,
having two societies or associations, like
the fruit growns of California anil
Florida. One Is l-ga Argumarli and
me noatu or irusirm coiinnis oi mc
offiiers. .1 T Cueclo, G I'vlabreMe. V.
Potcassi and ii i.auuceii
lleer Kniitta I'utillc Men.
Mr lleer. who .i.es In Vonkem. i a
lawyer, with an office at Tl Ilroadw-.o.
but It Is not e a lawyer trat be hnx at
tracted tl'e most attention V.".iis ago lie
was refill ded lit- the confidential man of
the president of n big Insurance com
Vany speclall ihnfged with ketp.nc a
lookout on things at Washington and at
Albany Hetlmes he was repotted as rep.
teMiitliiK, also at Washington, vailmis
other men and institutions of larg af
fairs. , McGuinlsx sa d that n I!n Mr lleer
nnd others had ttied t launca :i Pies.
' ldentl.il brsim for George II Cortelyoq.
I He silil that lleer had nttended a meet
ing of the American leileratlon of
Labor, posmg as -i irpeiiter dole-rate
from Wnternuty. I'onn lleer. he sa.d,
was changeable 'u polPb s. being ot
l'nif ,i Deinoiiat it ml at other times a
Republic.m. lleer, he aid, gave KC.nflO
, to tlii" Wllioti c-.itiip.UBn fund and 12.00a
to the Glvno c.imiaigi in New Vorl.
. He n.irtntcd :i visit m.ulp by Heer to
Alonro Owen, a post office inspector.
Owen hud brought about the mnvictlon
of Mime tilackhoinlers. Mci iii.tilsj. slid
that Heer tried to induce Owen to te.
sign and get the iren out of Jail. He
quoted Peer a saying. "Make j.nir
fees big, Owen. The King has givei, me
vj.enty of money "
A ,l..c nr two lite . ' e ,.il. Mr lleer
came out wih slroi.g i.efen-e Mr.
,.,. c urging mat certain Jealous
- ' -
l-.tl.Itiet meinlieis llri !r!nr- to ret
the Cnmttiuner out lie explained In
the same statelet v his irte't- ts in
SIul)
On November 15. ll'le. wnen Him r sued
for tile SI.'."" h tiled to attach prop,
erlv of the defi ndanth, th" two Sicilian
,,i , .'
and Harrison ' 'sbon.e, a Ii
lompanics, inc i run importer. union
xw". U""'S" '',',tt,"r V" .""I'l-o-"-! ,
IO nave on o, (lor,, v,to ,.,.., ii i a, moN
a letter of ci edit for S I tl.iiOii. in an
alfldavlt In the attachment proceedings
Mr Peer went a little more into detail.
Tells uf I'roioUed KIHI.IMMI,
"It vvas provided." lie said, "hv the
terms of the said agreement that the
defendants weie to pay the plaintiff
and the said Osborne the stun of
Jl.-i.OOO as a n miner, together with all
expenses lnciitrr.il b the plaintiff and
tlie snltl Osltoriie in (liile.iv'orinir tn oli.
I )n t,e armesalil tcvlsloii and general
reilipilon of the said iluls ami an Hdill-
, tlonal sum of $tiO,oon in the event that
i)ie Uali,in ,en,(l,.H. ,,,
tlirtniKli ait of Congress or any other
; (u,lc,,m r inslrutnentallty of the Fnlted
st,.,,. limertiment. vvt.s i educed to the
rate equal to the rate of duty provided
.. . Hn.ca ed W son lar t act."
Mention is made in the atlliluvit of a
supplementary ngieemeiit made In Or.
tober, 1913, that in case the tnriff was
cut from H.'.'O a box Io U.'i cents they
were to have the Jilo.fi
They wenl to work. The affidavit
riesrrllilliu their labor-, mi.vh that thee
fieqtieutly appealed before the Ways
Mild Mean Committee and the Senate
Committee nu Finance, lured speakers
mid sent out millions of pieces of "lltcia-
tuic."
"We car, only say about thla suit of
l Mr. H er that we are surprised," nald
S, Amarosn, second vice-president of
tho ImpmlerH Union, )eslerilay. "Why
should nr no sued tor .i,uoo or 1110,.
000? Why has It not been paid'.'
"We did raiee it fund amounting u
all to tibout $1 10,000 to have the tariff
on Sicilian lemons reduced, and we did
hire Mr. lleer to have It done. In the
United States the Imvortcrs by baying
5 cents a box on lemons Impcrteii raised
10:.,(i00, and the Sicilian societies
raised $3,1,000 mole, Now that It la all
over we are naked for JT.'i.Ooi) more,
"What lint become of the j 1 40,000?
We do not know. Wo have repeatedly
asked for an accounting nnd have not
Continual on tail P$.
FRENCH BREAK UP
GERMAN ATTACK
Jnvmleis First Infnntry As
snult in n Work Results
In Heavy Loss.
FIflHT OX HAUCOVRT LINE
Waves of Men Driven Baek
RrltlHli. in Hard Action.
May Plan Offensive.
hperiil (ibtf tltnuitrfi to Tnr. Sin
Iainpon. March 28. After almost a
week of bombardment the Germans made
.. infantry attacK this afternoon on ,h.
French front between Malancourt nnd
Haucourt, to the west of !. Mort
Homme. The attack, made after the
manner of, previous German assaults, In
wnet, wa repulsed, wave after wave
of German Infantry being driven back
with heavy lrscs by the French art'l
lery and Infantry nre. This attack Is
the first made by German Infantry since
last Wednesday, when a drive nt the
French petition at Haucourt was re -
Pul,eUi
To-days attack l regarded as an
effort by the Germans to complete the
gain made when they took the Malan-
of the oositlon. nlf.rke,! tnlav. fould
me rrrnco ue iiiriru iMih uuui tue
Mnlancourt-Haucourt positions toward
K.nes the German extreme right would
be In a position to bring strong ,.,esure
I against the French flank on the ; western
bank of the Meuse, Including the posi-
Cons on I.e Mort Homme.
After a night of comparative qut to
the ii.t of the river the ll.rm.iiu re.'
sumcd a bombardment of the French
second lines tlii afte-noon. No Infantry
attack on this side of the mcr has jet
been made,
French lleport.
Th cftllcl.il communique iMUed by the
' p.er.h War Offl.-e to-night follows :
. , , r lM11Wv
ln the Argonne our artlllory con-
t.r.ucd to be active agaltt the nrmy
organlratlons to the north of Hou)ele,
In the sector of Ia Font.iine-aux-t'harmes
and La Haute t'hevauchee,
as well as In the eastern part of the
Argonne. Fire directed against an
enemy battery 'n M.mtfaucon wood
cnued a violent explosion,
Went of the Meuse the bombard
ment was resumed with violence In
the course of the day on our positions
between Avoeourt and Hethlncourt.
Toward 3 o'clock the Germans
launched a t,nn;r attack on our Hau-(Ourt-Malaneourt
front. The succes
sive waves of the assult were entirely
repulsed with heavy losses by our tire
cut tain and Infantry fire. Our second
lines east of the Meus- were b in
liarded. In th Woevre r.ur aitulrry executed
rone titration of tire on vulnerable
1-nlr.ts of the er.em' front
1" the Voge tils artillery rlre w.i
nmewhat Mvely In the rexlor.s of
Stosjiw-fhr. Muelbach ar.d the Han
rr.annsweilerkopf. Win Surprise Viliu U.
List night French ileinrhrret.. 'i.aiie
a surprise ntt.i'lf on a German posit, n
'n the Parroy fores!, in Lorraine, ,le
j troy!rg the tolilon and taking jins
i oner" th" o.viipant nit kl.led in the
' attack.
The af'eiiipnn miiuii, , ie ,s as fol
lows .
Last n.sni pnsed qulctl; -n toe
last of the Mellse T.lete was ,H1
slderable actlv't;- on the part of Pie
oHHisng nrtllli-rv fon-s to the west
of the Meuse. in the region of Maiai
rouit. as well as in the Woevre. a'
the foot of ti.e heignts of tee Meue.
In I.orra'ne. In the Forest of
I Parroy, we delivered a surprise iu-
Itack on a tsisltlon of the ei.emj, the
occupants of wlil'h weie either killed
, or taken irio"it. In vv ivlidta-v ing
, blew- the pos'tlon
T. er ha i.e,oi in ;ii!tig else of 'tr
portaiae cm the eniaaider of t'i
fmt't.
The explosion of Hr,tih Hi re, in t';e
reg'on soulh of St. l.lol has caused
severe hand to hand encounter)" between
.. . . . e,.i.. ,
KT. ' u-n,
. ' . " '
afternoon.
Ilrlllsh OtTenslve.
I
The continuance of ioient lo.-.e t.K.it-i
Ing on tin trout is regarded by s,,.ne
inir.tar.v w niers n. muicaiing me nein-'
nlllg of a Hl-.tish ofTer.s.Ve of sulllcletlt
strength at .-at to divert some of the i
tier'na ii sircngiu rr ni in' vermin until
Tb-s German olllcliti Mat, merit Is as
follow .
Lively tlgiitlng nt clofe quintet) ilc-
eloped south if St. I. to', .around
mine craters funned bv explosions of
Hrltlsh mines Th" aitinn has ex
tended to adjacent lines.
i n both side of tl.. Mrue, nh,, e
righting Is tH'ilng place, tl.'re U
uo'liliig new to report. j
The following Iltitlsh lieadquarlei s re. !
port was Issued to-night :
In spile of heavy hostile artillery
lint during the night and at Intervals '
.... ............. i
ui-iiay nm ii'i' i'.'. "" 'i"l i'""i
ine grouiei h.iom.i jrpininij- ,,i ri,
Klol. Our artillery flrn was effective
In icplylng to the enemy's fire.
The total number of prisoners taken
I live officers and 105 men of other
ranks.
There was hostile artillery as w-,11
as trench mortar activity against our
position between Loos and Hiilluch
unit the Alx-MWIette front to-day
We retaliated by shelling the enemy's
po.dllonif.
YALE GRADUATE DISAPPEARS.
William II. Denton, Civil Pnulneer.
Mlsslnu From Pnel !.
DiiM-nr.. Match S Illglit days ago
William II Do.itou, aged J7. a gradiiat.
of the Sbetlhld School of Science at Vale
an.V,the Massachusett Institute of Tech.
nnlogy and a civil engineer for the Col
orado Fuel and Iron Company at Pueblo,
mysteriously disappeared from tint
place. He is the son of Gilbert II lien
ton. preldent of the Vulcan lion Works
at Denver.
Young Denlon, who Is athletic, oMen.
stbly started on a walk In the country
No clue of 111 wherealKiuts has beep
found since, although n thousand men
and li)'s iiavv searciien every resit of the
country near Pueblo. HI father in d.
spalr has turned the case over to private
detective agencies, with orders tu spare
no expense and tn spread the new of hit
son' dliappeeranoe.
CARRANZA URGED AGAIN I
TO PERMIT RAJLWA Y USE
Urgent Need of Lines to Get Supplies to U. S. Troops
Impressed Upon First Chief Pershing
Is Out of Gasolene. '
Wadhi.nuton, March L'8. Instructions
were sent to-night to Special Agent Hod
gers at Querctnro to urge again on Uen.
Carranza the urgent need of permission
to use the Mexican Northwestern Hall
way In transporting supplies from HI
Paso to tho military base of the Amcrl-
can forces operating against Villa at
Lasas Clrandes.
Aimougn carranza has not directly
tefused the pquet he has held It up
pending the negotiations between the tww
, Governments over the nronnsed nrotoool.
n ,'!1ch ' designed to cover all questions
! t?, & 5
Villi.
( o uigent Is the need tli.it the special
agent was Instructed to take this ones.
tlon up separately with Carranza with a
request that Immediate action be taken.
Of particular concern to the War Dc
partment is the need of g.iMileno with
which to mow the auto truck ued
along the 'American line nr communi
cations between Cas.is firnniles and Co
lumbus. X M , and with which they
operate tue aeroplanes. While the plans
1 ,f -l;arliKcht have been laid
i of the railroads In transporting most of
j the supplies, without the gasolene the
' trucks cannot opetute
, ,..,, wr f ,,,,
. "' " !" -onneitlon one of the Itepub.
lican Senators this atterr.ojn lecelved
c...... i.o . v i i i
f. "i ri i.. . V '. V wow
" " . ''' ' " 0MK . '11eKr'!'," 'x,p,jln:
. ' 7. P .V, , ,, r , "t
J'T:
room Senator Oalllnger took It to the
. ' . V .r ....... . . . . 11 urI ir Bt'-
I-,! ' .,'..
' "iJ ,-fl ivi.il lim .Ml. 1..11
( ? " L, "
public. Senator Pall having suggested In
the telegram that It should not be given
out
Kegatilless of this, however, the gen
eral contents of the nuhsage became
known. Senator Fall explained that
: " " V
'".', "B en,e iM" cpn'
'i31 ' ,wl,h 'x "? ,0i,r ." '
vtianues io supply mm w in nece-MIICJ,
Including gasobne He had purchased !',' h',i "' Department toda con
the entire supply of gasolene which the , ,0..rH,;"r: "ttie,M "? l, tt"' a-
flim h id on hand. The concern then
ipurchas.d In the Unite 1 State. an addl-
tonal ppl, amounting to three tank.
C ?: .... u
When tho tali; car? nacRcl LI Paso,
however Gen G.ivi.a commanding the
larra.ua garrison at Juate. refu-ed to
, ,,,.., ,,.-,,, io -.o "vi me ..I, jtir.ui
.'orinwesiern io i as.is virauiies, extiiain
Ing that he had been to Instructed by
I Gen. Carranza ln consequence of this
Gen. Pu-shlng Is facing a complete short-
age of gasolene, without which it will be
I almot Impossible for him to extend hi
line of communication?.
' Secretary Halter announced to-night
i teiegriini fiom Gen 1'uiivton express.
1 tng concern over the shortnae In auto
trucks which will devdnp as Gen Per
shing extends h. lini . aid urging that
lm.mdlate steps ii.. taken to prep ire
I against suca a itit'.ngen ,v
I Secretary Haker stat d that ilns would
j be done m.d indicated that oidrs would
' oe given to-morrow fm additional
iru. k U.tu the two aililltionnl com
panies ,,f autj t uiU all em l.v ordered
.Gen IVrshlng w II have within the next
I few d.i)s lt.2 trucks, lm tins number,
'Gen I'unston oii.i rvc w II no! be suf
ficient. I FUNERALS IN THE MR
MAY BE TRIED SOON
I l.iiliui' Io Tnki' IMrtre uf
Ileiiisfs if ni i.f I".
('iiiiiilicll .Mnlt'ri.ili.i'.
K.
I'm r.i.s in t ie a.r a-e t i b, fie irM
Iniiovati.i" to wlil.ii the lie roplni c is to
lie turtird T" be tn stjie on,, nit. si 1
ni.iKe at rangeinnil to have 1'ic mortal
'remain carried on a swift and soinbte
' lined biplane tn the final testing place,
! and the first aeiial corie..e will iirob.iblj
j be seen lu-Ntvv York vv.thiii a compai.i
llvelj sliolt time
' So announced Frank I. "aniplil. mad
I of the Campbell I iidertaklng ompaii.v
of tlie .implied CudertaKIng ompaii.v .
, it dluin r of tlie Aeronautical So.ietv of
AlP, ,.,, );,st night at McDonald's llc-taii-
n,t -,,st Tbiitv-tiint'i .i..et ll,
i.dileil fat he lei, ml. d to be ln Il.st
r .,, ,i. comlnir ilem ind. an.l l-.is
new estalillshincnt nt Plxt.v -sixth sir
and Itroalwny Is to be fitted Willi a
landing st;w for ,in.-i-.ft on the toof and
all conv enienciH for inourti r.i who wish
to make the ttlp.
Tti' laughed w i en we llisl talked
..f ,nli.. ft.eerMls to al.oe.'.eile tile ,t,l 1
be.il,.e'
he e.i.d. "ami lie) itnj liuigli .
al th s Hut It'" coming, and I'm going
to be t'ie first tn the new line '
Leo Stevets ;o dirigible av.aior.
.s working on the plan w.;h Mr. i'ain;i
bell, nnil :t Is ii.h'i stood that anango
'neiils am being unite wlt.i ,iu ii'--o
nl!,e e.,llstrn..tl..ll , .lliuvtlll. for Hie
' : ,
vice of stvei.i' weight cair.v.ng lino
chlre until the company
cat, rurnisli
ll.rtilla of it own. Fmlrrlik H
Hirker, prei.tletit of t'ie society. In
dm scl tlie 1 .1.1 ll by remarking Hint "it
whs another of the levolutlonaiy plans
. utilizing the aetuplane that, while
startling, should b- perfecll- feasible"
I'repareilne). vv.l the he) note of I lie
ot'ie-' speakers when they weie not tell
ing upecilotc.s. Vlci-1're-.l.leni William
I. Hummer said the most desirable stei
f,',P preparedness would be to "iut Mt.
Hrviin and Hie res- of hi k ml In t
centi'-nlon caniis wlicte they . in do n..
I liafin "
BARS LAWYERS IN HIS WILL.
Iwrnlllu Mli.rne,' I eitnnieiil
, -rl. .
" ' r .
Ib.yiUA. Ohio, March H -Tile vv.d of
the late Lewis D. Hoyulon. a wealthv i
lawyee. who died last week, was n.
fur probate at I'.lyiia to-di). It con
""T parii::!;ia;ry , ,.
ueys-ai-iaw nun siiiceieiy trust it .nay ,
not ne nccessai j to employ tnriu In 1
nn 1.1 to the adjustment of my estate
My experience has taught nir that ithei
are rill dangerous crooks, expressly rdu.
cated to obtain one's contldeiice In unlet
that they 111, i defraud and 10b wltli
impunity."
Hoynton came from a hue of law, vein.
Judge W, W. Ho)nton, Ml, a cousin, was
formerly a member of thti Ohio Supreme
bench. Another cousin was a Supreme
Court Juatlce In New York Btate
The telegram indicates that Pershing
Is preparing to proceed much further
Into tin- tluerrero district In pursuit of
Villa. He Is already more than '.'50
miles south of the border. i
Oltlolals ot the State Department thl
afternoon were dubious over tlu. prospect
or getting a ipiick response from Car-
, rana to the new leiiucft
I In connection with conditions
llnlig
the border Senator Fall stated tr. Ills I
teligiuni that while then was some feari
Mmmig th,. American, in IJI Pa.-o of an '
attack from across the Itlo (jralide, hu , -did
not believe the feni weie Jiistllled. I
He added, howrvu, that owing to Hie ('llipt' llidill ill ('illlVIHI
presence In Kl Paso of some ,10.000 Mexl- "iMlllr, III . .IIIMMl
cans, many of whom weie former VII-
lista sympathizers, there was danger uf
Incendiary lltes IkIiir started. I
Secretary linker explained this aftei-1
noon that In puicluilng the aeroplanes
the specifications in the armv aiiiiroiirla.
tlon bill passed by the Suinte nml tlie
Hoile toda will call for machines ca
pable of carrying n pilol and an tli.ervcr
anil nfoui hour suiji of gasolene. Ho
said that the new aeropline motors'
made in this ioimtr. wliile lad a., good ,
as those used In th.. mtlltiiry Ji.tciaft
abroad, will enable the new plnnei to be
better equipped In this legaid than nn
heretofuie In life In t lit army.
, ,hen lie npp.-aie.l before In.- Moil.-
.Minliiiy i ommittee on Satiirda .,n the
emergency approirlation, the Secular) '
declared. It was learned to-day. that the i
ultimate purjo-e of the army was, for1
the better piotectlon of the border, to ,
erect high powejed permanent wlreles
I "UiU""f
' !.-"
atlons at KI Paso and lluacr.uco and
maps one other town to operate In
conjunction with the wli-los station at
! San Antonio,
Gci. Perilling has w.th him in Mexico.
It was e lined, two Wireless outfits
mounted on motor tt ticks and of faltly
lllgll powel, eev-ral that ale carried on
mine lues, ii in i several on nmse drawn
wagons. Owing to the static conditions,
however, trouble Is being experlefited
updating these in lia.Mime.
linmt ltflorla toille In,
lleport from the interior of Mex.co
1 ' , ' V -r -'""""""'"'
Lc " ."'""'i""" ..T' ' .!"u"'r..a,',,.'1.rrni1.'
,. y 'itak. r thl
following statement .
..,,esp.1K.hes received l.v u to-day
., ,- ,, ,,..', ,,
Ursy wn ,.,,.., m.r,.r.s. indicated
co. ilinueil and growing
id will on the
part of tlie people of Mexico toward our
expedition. Its object is being more and
more thoroughly understood, and we
have no despatch"- Indicating cause for
apprehension."
Tlie State Department received from
Consul Letcher at I'hlhuahua a n-pott
stating that Gov. Hnrlquez bad issu.,
a pp-iia-napon .-a ling o.i fie M..-it,
people
to ronsin cnpi Mr Let, net
. i.lned that in spite of the pio.,,.,.
the A 'tier ran tri-xips o. M.-.-t i.-. , th, r;
I been no unfavorable developments
Tlie Nave Department was advpei
to-.la that , ondit'ons :.t Tampi- o and
Vera Tuj: r, main u- "i.i-ige.
Xicorilliig 'o a i-p et 'nail, to Hie
U.i' Depan-lieti- tie Fift l C.iv.ilrv.
wli . i w.is ordm-d to h, border last
Week. 1 ,S Htr'., at I'olUIIlous, hu; ;
was not s .it. , w.i. t. : i'. troop nuuld
be sent ,m M. I, o ..t iv,.. to take th"
pi i.-e of "t.iers giunj .ii
' GEN. PERSHING USING
TRAINS NOW, REPORT
(it'll. l-n 11 -I n llcur Tho I . S.
Ti'ioM'i's Weie liijiii-.(
in ;i Wreck.
.-vs r,.M,.. -Vv , Mai. ll 2.-Gel,
Futi-!.,. g.ne ,it the inform. itinn'ti,. day
tli.it lie i.ul rcene.l unoilleia' icpnr't
of a r-iin,,i, ,.,. ,,.,,t , vh'i,.i, .. ,
,t .... ;
' I i, .11. SOHll
I'S Were iiilliPe.l ll,...
Olillrinii,,- tl .., ..,
I 't ill, lis,. UT ,,.
. .. ,..,, ..., uinesiel n li.idway ,v
Alia rlcill tl.. ops It ( ,i,erst,,.M, ,A'.
ever, that ouly a small lengt), ,,f track
, " ' """ "' "" Ilillxirtniice
' fa, ilit.il- ti-aiispoitatiori of t;inqn or
" u-'-.i .mil mat or no niik.n,.
supplies.
Ileadouaiiei . : 1 1 1 1 1 , 1 1 1 , , . . I m-nlghi n,nl
no word has eoiiie ftoin tien. , i.i.o... ...
twent v .ini i.,n.
He.ldqll.lt lets also .1 Ii i,,,n, I ,
lepotts emanating trom iMrraiua soiir.es
leg.lt.l llg tae uonelllelds or w he, e,i,.lls
or Ilia ale m,t n.vepted ,v. A
..nu.. .omnia .., ,,s eit ,. ,, .
I.il.lbli In otllel- unnl. ,!..,, i ,. ....
Is .'undue! i l.g l.is in i i.i h.t. ... ...
. "'PliillK
O'VII
" """ "" U onl.v bv mfoniiat,,,,. fur-
o.r,,,., ,,uo o. ns ,,v,, ri outs. ,,,( ,,,
A ii.' ' .,ii so., litis .mil ,,tn.
I in null G,ii.
tshing i. iiiakn,- , . .
tellsiVe Use id th,
..'I. nil. in.-. t..
inillll.ale uitli tl. i,.,.,. .. ,. ,.... ".!
I, ... . " i" ..nil
I ' i. ... in i epai'inioiit i,
" ' "" loanil
"li.'.l the
wireless. Sotni
i i
reports eieii,. olei it
f all elnet-L.eiii.e li ...o.i
. ., . . '.,i,,
... -useu mill 1,11 glc.llfl evpeilicll,
uiitler favorable i oiulitions. than tli,
planet
Tile big qlle..lo .Mil, tilllcej ,,f
ilt'liartmeiit now is to K.t t I sii.plies
and forage :.. Hie atlv.in. e Hoops iiiese
ale known in 1.,. about .I'lo miles from
Hie hor.loi Forage, esp. cdlj ,,u 1H
the bipklest put .,r the man, tdi,g'B ,,,,
army n,,ili, .1 ml so limit,,! UH
capacity of tlie nnjl., aiitt motor ttal.is
Hint (otnparativel) II. tie lioise feed lias
1 i.e. 0 i.iii. .1 lino .vie.s ., Tid.s M., r.
ulted 111 a shoitage that inn Interfile
-eilioisij .ii, t, , llicien, j f
1 luoiititctl itoops soon
the
lien Pershing lias asked rot null- ,,,,
n... lor trucks, making a tut il of ;;0
I trucks ilei I'tinsloii s.i.v s Villa 1- 00,1,
III . s,.,it i... . w 1.. .11 . . H 1
"' " " 1 ' on'-i 11011 tic a a,,
. ' 0 111 says
t -,., nr. . . , ,110111 an .minus ,
"iai troops aie I...1111.1 t i,,u, , dances
"f,"" iimbuh t 1 11 1 1 1 1-1, aiivtliing
'raui servi.e between .liiar.. and
1 '" vli.in.les li.i 1, lennueil
- - - -- -
stuck to duty too loxg.
I'i.sIiiiiiii Killed bv lie 1 1 1 1 , u,..
fuseil In It el I re on Pension,
ilrcwt inhle linfutili to Tin M
I'aiiih, March 1! M Soiilagis, 1 ,H
chief delivery postni.n, nf Soissotis. al
though entitled to I.e retlicil on ,, pen
sion soiiie months ago, asked in In. i.
lowed to cotitimie al work oiving to Hi,,
war.
As ho was finishing hi round last
wtck he was killed by a shell.
FLYING SQUAD -SENTFORDASH
AFTER VILLA
Picked Men Are South of
Nnmifiuipa. Says Wire- v
less From Front.
' '.'ill.I' I VII
WOKK IX MOUNTAINS
Near IJabieora U. S.
Troops at. Hand.
SK NATO If FALL Ati.VIX
s( ()im:s pkesidknt.
Defy Carranza anil Sei
the .Mexican llailroads.
His Plan.
1
I
lit I.KOItGF. II. ( l.liXICN I S, (j
eercf VorrtMpomlent or Tnr M s
IlKvitgf.vitTH: or Tin: Pi-nitivb Ex
ti.niTio.v. I'mti.p Statkj Aiimt, neap
Casus Grandes. Mexico. March 2S, by
wireless to Columbus, N. M,
Prrpura-
tlonM wen, advanced to-day for qulcto
work in moving after Villa nnd hl.u
bandits Men selected fur their ability
a ruler. ami their ph.vsii.il ability t
withstand the hardships of a long cam
paign have leen organized Into a fly
ing caviilty column somewhere south
of Naninitiipa. icnly to da-.li nt a mo
ment's police in pursuit of Villa.
The w hereabout of Villa hlrnelf i.j
unknown to the American nriiiy at thuj
tune, but li . -idqiiiii-.fr here arc not
often ki'iit Informed of all movement!
until n considerable t,.no has elapsed
because of the hL-ohco of wire com
munication. Automobile .i ml nansport tnuiee
have been guiinc forward from here for
stv-eral i.ivs to the now ml wince baee.
Tlie mules ate tn be lsr, to t ik fo.lij
into .lie mount. mi.
V. S. FORCES MOVE
OVER TO EASTWARD
llln llldlnix In a n I ii i ntlierlaa
I ll II, oil, l llellef.
I It. I '.-. i. Ti'.x .Match r-i! DimII's
living million of i.nalr.v lias been
I'ls'ieil to tlie Santa Ouhenna lanyon,
a iiurt distance houthe,,t of It.ibicora,
.i sv.inii of I'.iiiclio il,i .)t, iii.s band.
'
ifding tn a iniks.ig,. reirlv. i l,v the
I11Z.I oltlolals ill .III. in l...;
I Ii. .valr.v was out follow it. ,t n
i.it villa it ml his mi u wet,, liidlng in
lie SllltO " t ll.l-ll Ilivoll. vvliich ,J
.i rugged sin in the mount, unsul, near
Do III. Tile npoll uf '.ilia's pre.
tec Has l.cetviil ,,t tlie t'lfl.inM
nriliv base .n Miidel.i by le'ephmin
llll.ll ll.llllt'Ol.l
'I' , Ihmii for li m i lie vuiiiity
of 111 nn .mi S.iiu.i liir.i i.mvoru,
last .,f N..iiiliinp,i, is i,. .ili.in.
il,,o,.,l. . i, lit. .I,
v
and lm lloiips that ,. ie uperalln,;
along tnc G,ile,iii.i-Niiiinquip,i ronl
under i'ol. 1 1. .Id. w-itli CI .ille as a
Ins... ale I .ni. to have l.ci n shifted
t, the v.clllitj ot Hal, .ci r.i ami Madera
and tm Int.. the Held tn s h of ..U
a.'. .1 in,- ban. I.
The svt't.e of up- i, it, otis k ii, m sanj
I,, l- nloiiK the line of .In- Mom,-,,
N. i hw. '.stern no it- M.i.l. v.i .. u.i u th,.
Iiilis to the w . t and ,.,u!ia.st of
Man i.t
I ..'paUhcs leteiveil bv I ! i f!.iel
' '" "" . tn I. j , j u . i In-
ui. ii -.i in. ii inn ills .tire . scattered
in i.iro. Sin,.! i,.,n,u i
""it to lift y ill. li have b, en r.iiorit,! hi
.... ...,.,... ,. ),,, .11.,,.... .. .....
" ' .' '"-"- i -an lair
'n.,.1
as; ot i,im ( 1 nits a i-, r,rco
1. renim,. frnlll e i.'b nlln r. .s
w l.',.ul..iu's of 1II1. (Jen.
Alilli'g.
to the
(lav Ir 1 I. id no tie i.rn s
Hill I. list keen ni lit 11.,,.
la"' .ml. lent.. 'iil,,t"n,Jti,.p w.n"
he sad. "that ic was ,,t ;
few tulles ...111th,.., t ,,f .annqtipa '
A ond ibspal.-ii from t;,.,,. ibrtan.
s.i.,1 t.i.it ev r tl.ing is vei) quiet .lino', g
the I '..'.. lltul .oli.il garrisons ii tn.
Peairon-M.i.lera and i',i..i Gr.mdes
distil, i. and lli.it no lepotts had hern
sui.nniteil 111 011 ntgag tits of
CI .11. u lei w .til the Vllllstas.
a n y
Toe tepoi'ted por-mss-ioti srante ti e
I ell. all t.ll'ies to use Hie telegraph
lelos II ll to .Illlll. did 11. .tl app to
tl.,' I in t,, t fit- holder. 11 was Ii .11 nei
to-.i.n, . . : to i.it mill 1. in of Hoi Me..
.111 t. egi.i!li ki tut li of Caf.is Grand. t
Xo Vmericai aiv 1 er nitlcd to ii.e
Hie .N'e'.lni .Vortliwrst.'i'ii t...gi,i, 1 I,-,
b.t.v.tt ,lii.'t'. and i'.is,,s Gi.iii-li'k Ge:
Helta. -i I. as ssti,d nidi rs thai i, . .
1. .1 1 oill .'is al. I,, no p. riiotti i to scl .
. .s-gt in tlieli r.imili.s or fiii mi
1" Paso in'. .- tin, line,
li, potts wen le.eived lie e 10 i,ig, t
.' . not hi t tram wit.'k on Hie 1 iilliu.ili.ia
dv'Mo.i of Hie Mevl 11 N'.. lliw 1 sli 1 n
s. lltli of .Mt'ilel'ii III wlil.ii niM. nig' 1
! oopel ..f Hie Tenth I'.lValt.v was Mil,-.
Tile Vl...'i. I. .epol'letl !o ll.lle liappi.in .
al Miislct. a small station Miuih of
Telnos.t.ill.
Tnc ni w ncr cari base, ainiuurvrl
a.s i...i I..11 miles sinilli of Cish
G ai .ic. -.. l to be at Madera, whlcii
is being made tnc base of operations for
Hie American Hoops In their neuron for
Villa.
With the establlthment of the mw
