Crossville Chronicle.
TMB TENNESSEE TIMES 1 OONSOLIOSTBO
8SVILLE OHRONIOLB 1 j , s9f,
VOL. XXX. CROSSVILLE, TENNESSEE. WEDNESDAY. MARCH 29. 1916. NO. 13
URGE HOG SALES.
0v6r 100 Head Bring Highest Price of
Season in Competitive Bidding.
Saturday 102 head of hogs were lead
ed hre by Arthur Woody for shipment
to Nashville Dartiea. The price paid
was 8 1-2 cents a pound live weight.
This is the highest price that has been
paid for hogs in this section this sea
son, i lit- price that has been paid be
fore has ranged from 5 1-2 to 7 cents,
in this instance the hogs were unusu
ally guod and the fact that there was
a car load brought out several bidders.
Most of the hogs belonged to K. K.
Dunbar and brother, M. C. Dunbar.
The hogs had been gotten together at
the farm of K. K. Dunbar, four miles
south ot town. The bidding waa spirit
ed fro 1 1 1 the start, but when Arthur
Woody ottered 8 1-2 cents the other
biuders had enough and let Mr. Woody
have them. The hogs were weighed
on the scales at Mr. Dunbar s larm,
which was quite an item as hogs v ill
shrink a few pounds by being driven
as much as tour miles.
01 the whole number sold K. K
Dunbar bad 82 bead, which brought
him over fourteen hundred dollars.
Tbey averaged a fraction over 208
pounds. M. C. Dunbar had 17 head
which weighed 2,530 pounds or a frac
tion less than 150 each. Other parties
had one or two eacb to make up the to
tal ot 102 head.
K. R. Dunbar has sold this year over
$2,000 in hogs out of the woods. They
have been fed no grain ana have not
cost hiui 50 cents a head in casb for
feed, but he has put in much time look
ing sfter them. However, it is hardly
BFtVJ UMTS HlIIUgH HW WillO
so profitably in any other way. Mr.
Dunbar informed the Chronicle man
that he would have a car of shpats that
will average around 125 pounds for
June shipment. He will very likely
realise over $3,000 this year from hogs.
Mr. Dunbar is not only a successful
hog mati but be is making a splendid
sueess with sheep and cattle as well.
He has a flock of 75 ewes of such fine
quality that he was recently offered
$9.00 a head for the bunch, but de
clined it. Buyers say he has as fine
sheep as they ever saw. He has been
bringing up the grade of his sheep for
several years by using pure blood
bucks. He has some ten or twenty
buck lambs engaged to different parties
for delivery this summer. They will
bring him $15.00 to $20.00 each. He
He has Borne as fine cattle as any man
in the county and always gets the top
of the market, for what he offers for
sale is of first quality.
There are many farmers over the
county who have sold hogs to the
amount of $50 up to several hundred
dollars. As in the case with Mr. Dun
bar the hogs have been fed no grain,
simply fattened on acorns in the woods.
CLIFTY TONEY AND PATTON forty dollars more a head subscription contest.
Miss
Friday
days.
K. D
Bessie Moore went to Sparta !
afternoon, to be away several !
WIN
NOMINATION
Holt went to Sparta Friday
afternoon on business.
Miss Virgie Moor has returned to
High School at Sparta, after an ab
sence of several days on account of
sickness.
Dr. W. B. Young left Tuesday for
Clay, Kentucky. He will return to
Sparta Saturday night, where Mrs.
Young and son, William Richard, will
join hin. They will remain in Sparta
over Sunday, returning to Clifty Mon
day. The teachers are beginning to plan
for the exercises at the closing of the
school, and from all reports, there is a
treat in store for all who will be so
fortunate as to attend them, and every
one is looking forward for the time to
come.
Our farmers are busy plowing and
pulling the stumps out ot their fields.
Several cars of crushed limestone and
about 'en cars of stable manure have
been received so far. Out9ide of crops
for silage, potatoes will be the leading
crop. It is the intention of the com
munity to raise at least ten cars of po
tatoes for market, and at a meeting
the other night, settled on the Burbank
variety as the most suitable for ou
purpose. An old fashioned spelling bee was
conducted at the Club House Friday
night.
Mr. Dean, Supervisor of County
Demonstration Agents for Middle Ten
nessee, accompanied by Prof. Franklin
of Sparta, the local agent for White
county, wii' here last week.
Kev. C. T. Carter, of Sparta,
brought his nests. Kev. Regent, of
Nashville, . d Rev Lutin, of Win
chester, wl are helping him in a
meeting, to i 3 mountain last Wednes
day. While here they enjoyed a trip
into the mints.
Mrs. Henn ' wson baa been sick
several days, torn at last accounts was
better.
Mr. Hazelt relief agent for the
N. & C. road, has been here for the
past few days relieving Mr. Stone,
who is looking after his farming inter
ests. The coal trade continues good, the
mines having run every day except
two this month, on whine days the
mines were closed down on account of
car shortage.
Tom Moore and Virgil Burgess were
gone several days last week looking
for mules.
The company has just completed the
erection of a pair of wagon scales for
the community use.
Dr. Cott, health officer, announced
Sunday that there would be a general
clean up day next month, when every
one will be expected to clean their
premises and also the men will possibly
volunteer to clean the streets of all
; rubbish.
During the severe windstorm the
other day a house in the Tiptown
neighborhood was blown from its pil
lars, but fortunately the only person
at home, Miss lucker, escaped unhurt,
although badly frightened. A great
many roofs were damaged in different
parts of town.
"Billy ' Bouldin has purchased the
Tonsy Claims Victory by 150 to 200;
Patton Wins Over Flynn by Close
to 100 Votes; Vote Will Be
Canvassed Tomorrow
That Was the Difference Belween Scrub Wilf Start Next Week and Continue for
and Blooded Stock, j Three MonthsNumerous Prizes.
Washington, March 27: That it pays ' The Chronicle will open a subictis
to raise good stock is illustrated by the tion contest beginning next week ud
experience of two Utah ranchmen whe ! continue it for three months. Ur
sent their steers to tbe same market
on the same day. Both ran their stock
on National Forest range under graz
ing permits, both used the same
amount ot range per head of stock,
The republican primary election held i and L,otn paid the 8ame grazing fee
Saturday for the selection of a candi-1 ne gave fl08e ""ention to the se
date for Sheriff, Trustee and Tax As-! lect on nf his breeding cows and used
sessor resulted in G. W. Toney defeat-1 only hiKh-rad bulls- The other made
ma .3 . r. . . . ... l. . . i 'ru
ing J. A. Hassler; Jas. Smith was
no effort to improve his herd. The
J. E. Pat-
(JKT YOUR WATCHES.
I
Hyder place in the northern limits ot
town and will cutlivate it this year,
but will continue to live in the house
he now occupies.
lciii uuiuen is snipping car 01 scrap
I iron this week ai d every boy in town
J. ri. Wilson, Bristol, Tennessee, the Jnas been busy when out of school, look
ing to whom I have been sending j ing for "scrap," and it is safe to say
watches and jewelry for repairs, died 1 nat no backyard, much less the street,
.. ... i can boast ot a single piece of iron or
recently and 1 will receive nothing mbbwh gUjtable for the "scrap" pile,
more for the present. Those who have ! s,... n, . n.(i,pna - Khin,no-
seed potatoes to points below on this
branch of the road.
March 27.
Watches and jewelry placed with me
for repair- should call for them as I
must make settlement very soon and
Close up my end of the business. The
Wilson jewelry business will be sold
today and l will be expected to make
early settlement. So, come and get
what ever article you have left with
me. S. C. Bishop.
Clifty Spirit.
PRIMARY IN ROANE COUNTY.
COMMITTEE CALLED.
: Tom Dannel Goes Down in Defeat Be
! for 0. T. Tyndall for Representative.
The Republican Congressional Exec
utive Committee of Fourth Congres
sional District, is hereby called to
meet in the court house at Cookeviile,
Tennessee, on Saturday, April 1st,
1916, at 10:00 a. m., to transact such
business as is proper to come before
the Committee at that time.
Geo. T. Renfro, Chairman.
I In the republican primary election
held in Roane county Saturday Tom
Dannel was defeated by O. T. Tyndall.
The winners were :
i Representative, O. T. Tyndall.
Sheriff, wl W. Roberts.
Tax Assessor, J. F. Cormany.
j Register, J. B. Ladd. '
Trustee, W. F. Millican, unopposed.
named without opposition
ton won over W. L. Flynn.
The election was most remarkable in '
that very little excitement was '
aroused, but in spite of that fact a fair
vote was polled. From the size ot the
vote it is evident that the people were'
thinking more than they were talking.
Before the election no one seemed to !
be able to predict with any degree of
certainty who would be the winners.
The race for sheriff had the appearance
of being favorable to the present sher
iff, (i. W. Toney, but Mr. Hassler de
veloped a surprising strength in some
sections of the county and came well
up to expectations at almost every pre
cinct. Sheriff Toney has won the nom
ination by 150 to 200 votes. He
claiD's the victory by close to 200, but
there is some doubt if his expectations
will be q'lite realized when the count
is had tomorrow noon.
The race bewteen W. L. Flynn and
J. E. Patton was one of the most clean
and gentlemanly that was ever run in
this county. Both men acted. Tith en
tire courtesy and good teeling toward
each other, going so far as to deliver
each others tickets at several voting
places over the county. Indications
are that Mr. Patton has won by some
where around 100 votes.
Mr. Flynn had served as Assessor
one term while Mr. Patton had never
held any elective county office. He
entered the race very much a stranger
in some parts ot the county while in
other parts he was well known and all
well informed persons admitted, as did
his opponent, that he would poll a
heavy vote where well known. Both
men are of high character and are
highly esteemed in their home neigh
borhoods.
Jas. Smith, who was nominated for
a second term as Trustee, had no oppo
nent. He has discharged the duties of
the place so well and is so well known
and liked over the county that any per
son who may have aspired to the office
could see that the chances to defeat
Mr. Smith were practically hopeless.
The figures that have been received
on the election have been brought in
by persons from tbe different precincts
and sent in by phone so that no great
confidence can be placed in their ac
curacy, but are sufficiently close to
render the final result sure.
Under the rules governing the pri
mary the committee will meet in the
court house tomorrow at noon to can
vass the returns and announce the re
sult. I'o make sure of having the vote
correct we are not attempting to give
the votes hy precincts this week, but
will do so next week.
The committee to canvass the vote
is: G. f. Burnett, chairman; S. C.
Bishop, secretary; S. C. Cline, Jere
Morrow and A. L. Garrison. The can
didates, their friends or any interested
person may be present to watch the
canvass of the vote.
i owner of the high-grade stock received
I $40 per head more tor his steers than
i the owner of the common stock.
'there is a lesson in this that should
be ol great interest to the slock raisers
of tin- county. It is well understood
that it requires no more teed to keep a
blooded animal than a scrub and the
difference in favor of the blooded
st"ck is equal to a very large profit.
Ed. Chronicle.
DIG FIRE IN NASHVILLE.
Nearly 600 Houses Burned With a
Property Loss of Million and a Half.
Last Wednesday afternoon about 2:30
fire broke out in East Nashville. A
fifty nnle-an-hour gale was blowing,
which rendered the fire department
powerless to render anv special aid or
control the fire.
It burned until far into the night be
fore it was got'en under control. Nu
merous churches and schools were de
stroyed along with hundreds of resi
dences, among then, being some of the
finest homes in the city. By the time
the fire was under control nearly 600
houses of all description bad been de
stroyed. The loss is estimated at
11,600,000. No lives were lost but
many persons bad narrow escape" and
some were injured. It was by far the
most disastrous fire in the history of
the city.
A negro boy dropped his yarn ball
into the fire and as he snatched it out
it burned his fingers and he dropped it.
The small blaze was caught up by tbe
terrific gale then blowing and swept
everything before it for several hours.
Several thousand people were ren
dered homeless, but individuals con-
tnbu ed liberally and the needy were
all housed and fed by the aid of she
city and other organizations. The
Nashville Banner started a subscription
fund with a donation of $1,000. Con
tributions poured in from many sources
and the situation was promptly handled
with very little suffering to the needy
and unfortunate who had lost their all.
will be numerous prizes given to the
most popular young ladies in different
sections of the county. Tbe grand
prize will be a $150 graphanola and
every contestant in the county will
have a chanee to win it there will
oe several prizes that will be confined
to different parts of the county.
We are unable as yet to announee
what the various prizes will be or just
what parts of the county they will be
assigned to. In our issue of next week
we will give full details of the contest,
embracing rules under which the eon
test will be conducted and much other
matter that will interest prospective
contestants.
We shull send out several hundred
extra copies of the Chronicle next
week in an effort to reach every fam
ily in the county. In case you do not
receive a copy you can get it by calling
at tbe Chronicle office or sending your
name and address to us. To be sure
not to be missed, send in your name
today written on a postal card and the
paper will be sent to you free
This will be the best opportunity for
merchants and other advertisers to
j reach tne people ot the entire county
that has ever been presented. In spite
1 of the fact that many hundred extra
i copies of the paper will be Bent out
j free during the contest, there will be
no increase m price of our advertising
rates. Everv merchant in the county
should take advantage of this splendid
opportunity to reach the entire people
ot the county with his business story.
Several merchants have signified their
intention of taking space in the Chron
icle during this big contest and we feel
confident they will find it a very profit
able investment.
TIN CAN A MENACE.
Who would have thought that the tin
can Is a menace to the public health?
The expert malaria investigators of
the U. S. Public Health Service hsve
found however that discarded tin cans
containing rain water are breeding
places for the mosquito which is the
sole agent in. spreading malaria.
A hole in tbe bottom of the empty
can might have resulted in the saving
of a human life. Certainly it would
have assisted in preventing a debilitat
ing illness. Empty tin cans have no
business about the premises anvway,
but if we must so decorate our back
yards, let s see to it that the can has
a hole in the bottom.
At the Chronicle office you can get
pen tablets, examination tablets,
fountain pen ink in five and ten cent
bottles, pocket note books, stenog
rapher's note books, Crane s fine sta-1
tionery in two-quire boxes and other
stationery such as you do not find else
where in this county.
TO THE PUBLIC:
HAS EIGHT CHILDREN.
Mrs. P. Rehkamp. 2404 Herman St.,
Covington, Ky., writes: "I have been
using Foley's Honey and Tar for nearlv
two years and can find no better cough
syrup. I have eight children and give
it to all of them. They were subject
to croup from bames on. " it is a safe
and reliable medicine. For sale by
need & Burnett.
I
MASS MEETING.
To the Democrats of Cumberland
County :
By a request of a majority of the
member of County Executive Conimit
ee, I am requested and authorized to
call a mass meeting of all Democratic
voters in Cumberland coun'y to meet
at the court house in Crossville, Ten
nessee, on Saturday, April 1st, 1916,
at one o clock p m. , for the purpose of
selecting delegates to the Gubernator
al con vention to be held in Nashville,
in May, 1916, and to transact any and
all other business that may properly
come before said meeting.
This March 15. 1916.
G. W. Davenport, Chairman,
L. W. Martin, .Secretary.
CUT THIS "UT-IT IS WORTH
MONEY. !
DON'T MISS THIS. Cut out this i Our corn mill, after being shut down
slip, enclose with five cents to Foley & 1 all winter on account of my sickness,
Co., Chicago, III., writing your name is now in shape to do your grinding
and address clearly. You will receive every day in the week. Would be glad
in return a trial package containing ; to see all of oar old customers come
Foley's Honey and Tar Compound, for ' back where yon can get your corn
coughs, colds and croup, Foley Kidney j ground to your liking and in short
Pills and Foley Cathartic Tablets, j time. Come and see as. 3 29-2t
Far sale by Reed Burnett. B. N. Hargitt Co., Westel, Tana.
NOTICE.
To all Sunday school workers, and
esnecially those of Cumberland county,
under direction of the Tennessee Sun
day school association:
There will be held in Harriman,
Tenn., a Sunday school institute April
4 and 5. All workers of all denomina
tions are urged to attend. Free enter
tainment if you send your name to Jas.
H. Reynold, 427 Roane St, Harriman,
Tenn., bsfore Sunday, April 2.
It pays to
Brighten up Your
FURNITURE.
I can furnish you any thing in Oils or
Stains, Metal Polish, both silver and
bronze. I handle the Sherwin-Williams
line, which is the best. I also handle
O-Cedar Mops and oil for same.
W. F. BANDY.
Grassy Cove
Rev. H. H. Cassady was visiting at
W. B. Andrews' Saturday night. He
left for Jewett Sunday to fill his regu
lar appointment there.
A. C. Kemmer went to Grandview
Saturday and moved his family home.
The children have been in school there
this winter.
Miss Naomi Kris tow came home from
Crab Orchard Friday, where she has
been in school.
Mrs. J. D. Brady went to Meridian
Sunday.
W. B. Andrews and O. P. Burnett
and son Wayne were Crab Orchard vis
itors Monday of last week.
Mrs. Kate Buraett is on the sick list.
Andy Elmore, of Crossville, was sur
veying here last week.
Miss Ida Dorton and Claude Gibson
were here Sunday.
Bratcher Wlison and family went to
Crab Orchard Saturday to see his
mother, Mrs. T. E. Wilson, who is
very aiek.
Brown Bristow was in Crab Orchard
Friday.
O. P. Burnett went to Crab Orchard
Saturday.
Mares 20. Tase Beet,
