Many Are Killed and Injured in Triple Wreck on New York Central
HARRISBURG 1&S8S& TELEGRAPH
LXXXV— No. 70
30 DEAD
40 INJURED
TRIPLE
Rescuers Work Frantically to Recover Dead and Hart
From Wreckage of Three of New York Central's
Fastest Trains in Smash-up Near Cleveland; Two Sec
tions of Buffalo Flyer in Rear-end Collision; 20th
Century Limited Plunges Into Debris
MANY OF THE DEAD WILL GO TO
THEIR GRAVES UNIDENTIFIED
Most of Passenger? Were Sleeping When Cars Were Split
Apart; Bodies Badly Mangled; Arms and Legs Scat
tered Through Wreckage; Many Decapitated; • Fog
and Darkness Screened Warning Lights; Steel Equip
ment Prevented Heavier Loss of Life
Cleveland. March J'K—At least thirty persons were killed —the
exact total may not be known until nightfall—and more than forty
were injured in the wreck early to-day of three of the New York
Central's crack passenger trains a mile west of Amherst, Ohio.
Twenty bodies had been taken out at noon and five more were
known to be in the debris.
\\ hen the total of dead and injured is finally ascertained, the
wreck will surpass with its cost of life and limb even the wreck of
the I wenticth Century Limited at Mentor, in 1004, when the train
ran into a freight on its second trip on the New York-Chicago
twenty-hour run.
Dense fug obscured the signal set by the first section of the
castbound Pittsburgh-lialtimore-lJuffalo limited, causing another
section of that train to crash into it. A short time later, before
signalmen could flag it. the fast Twentieth Century Limited, west
bound. crashed into the wreckage which had piled up on the west
bound tracks.
Daylight had not yet appeared when
the three trains piled up together.
Farmers and villagers rushed to tlio
assistance of the stricken passengers.
The work of rescuing those pinioned
under the wreckage was hampered by
the darkness, which was accentuated
").v the fog
Morgue Soon Filled
Amffctlances, automobiles and all
kinds of vehicles were rushed from
Klyria and other points to the scene
of the wreck. The little morgue at
Amherst was soon tilled with bodies
of the dead. Most of the injured wore
conveyed to hospitals in Elyria.
The Twentieth Century proceeded
on its way to Chicago. None of the
passengers on this train was injured.
Philadelphia!!* Killed
Among the identified dead are Wal
ter B. East on and R. Thomas, both
of Philadelphia. Injured Pennsyi
vanians are: John Kostnosh, of Home
stead, L. Kaukie, of Midland, and
Charles Gregg and Robert Wright, of
1 mperial.
Relief trains have been sent to the
scene from Cleveland, Klyria and
other nearby places.
The three trains were two sections
of Train 86, eastbound Chicago to
Buffalo flyer, and the Twentieth Cen
tury Limited.
The first body taken from the
wreckage to be identified was that of
the Rev. Gustav Walyi, pastor the
first Hungarian Evangelical Lutheran
Church, Detroit. The Rev. Walyi
lived at 3 Thaddeus street, Detroit.
Crash in FOR
The second section of the Chicago-
BtifTalo flyer crashed into the tirst
section in a heavy fog when the first
section stopped to take water.
The Twentieth Century, westbound
plowed through the wreckage of
train 86 which had been hurled to the
westbound track. before flagmen
tould be sent out to stop it. Train 86
was due at Cleveland at 4.05 a. in.
Most of the dead were in tlie rear
coaches of the first section of the
Chicago-Buffalo flyer.
Some dead were found in the rear
coaches of the second section of t lie
flyer which buckled over onto the
Twentieth Century's right of way and
was splintered by that train.
Twentieth Century Escapes
Most of the dead are said to be for
eigners who were travelins in the
rear coach of the first section of the
Chicago-Buffalo flyer.
There are no dead among the pas-
THE WEATHER
For IlnrriftlturK and vicinity: Gen
erally cloudy to-nlftht «»<l Thurw
dny, *«llkiilly warmer ThurMdny;
loiveMt to-nljtht about 38 de
icreea.
For Himtcrn I'eanM.vl vaaiu: Gcner-
Mlly cloudy to-NIUHI ami 'I'IIUTM
day, Mllghtly wHrmer ThurMdny i
moderate northern*! to north
wlndN.
Klvrr
Thr .Inn lain. Went llrnacb above
\Vllllnm*port, anil the < hcmuiiif
rlverM are falling and the MIMOUC
liannH wan reported to be tailing
at UfnßliHmtou. 'l'he main river
aucl the \ortli llraneh below To*
uanda, are atlll rlMlnic. The river
at HarrlMliiirut; IM rhlnir at the
rate of o,2ft of a foot an hour antl
Mill probably reaeh the flood
Mtatfe about 1 p. ni. It IM expeeted
to reaeh a Mtaice of about INJ»
or 1!) feet at about N or 11 o'clock
to-nltcht. A flood Mtuice IM Indi
cated for >VllkcM-Harre tliU i«f
ternooai report* front al»ove indi
cate that the Mtase there will not
exceed .3 feet within the next few
days.
General CondltlonM
The aI UICKIMII Mtorin over the eiiMtera
part <»f the country IM drifting
"lowly otT over the Atlantic ocean.
It cnuMcd rain Keaerally In the
Middle Atlantic State* and In
.North Carolina mid KaMt Tenaea-
Mee 1n the laMt twenty-four hourn.
Temperatures N a. m., 38.
Mini IUMCN, s>ri. a. ai.j MC tn f 6:27
p. m.
Moon* Wew moon, April 2, 11:21
a. m.
Illver Mace: About 17 feet above
low-water mark.
VeMferday'M Weather
I lift bent temperature, 48.
I.OMCHI temperature, :ttl,
Mean temperature, 10.
formal temperature, 411,
BY CAKRIEK O CKVTI A WEEK.
SINGLE COPIES 3 CENTS.
sengers on the Twentieth Century,
I though a number of passengers were
badly hurt of this train. Two coaches
of the Twentieth Century were over
turned. The low casualties on the I
Twentieth Century are attributed to'
the fact that the train was proceeding!
slowly because of the heavy fog.
The second section of the tiler was'
•voing at a high rate of speed when it
istruck the first section.
Sleeping When Killed.
Many of the dead probabij will go
to fhetr graves unidentified.
Most of those killed were asleep in i
the rear day coach of fire 86. at the
time of the crash, and they had re-1
moved wraps and coats and other ar-,
tides of identifying clothing.
The bodies of many of those scan- i
tily clad victims are so horribly man-;
gled that identification, without thej
guidance of the clothing they wore l
will be impossible.
Sotne of the victims were decapi-!
tated. Arms, legs and portions of
human bodies were scattered thickly
through the wreckage.
Relief parties collected the remains
of three bodies, those of a woman and
two men, and piled them, indiscrimi
nately, in one basket. They probably!
will be buried together.
Many Narrow Escapes
Alfred Fritzele. a Cleveland sales
man, was in the Toledo sleeper of the
first section and escaped Injury. He
helped in the rescue and then came 1
on to Cleveland.
Aaron De lJay, Pittsburgh. who
came through with Fritzele said he
was catapulted from his berth into one
occupied by a woman across the aisle
when the crash came. De Ray was
uninjured.
A. Comensky, Pittsburgh, coming ■
from Chicago, said he saw a woman j
die in the wreckage before he could j
[one tinned on Page 12]
Roosevelt's Secretary
Given 30 Days in Jail,
Gets Stay of Execution
By Associated Press
Xew York. March 2 9.—A stay of
sentence was to-day granted to John i
XV. McGrath, secretary to Theodore !
Roosevelt, and lately acting secretary'
of the Progressive national committee, l
who was yesterday committed to the
workhouse for thirty days on a charge
of disorderly conduct and assault. The |
complainant was Charles Liglite, Jr., 1
of Brooklyn. wlto charged that
McGrath and William Powers as
saulted him in a restaurant in Brook
lyn last June.
Colonel Roosevelt lias announced
that he will stand by his secretary,
fie issued a statement expressing in
dignation at the sentence and assert
ing that McGratli would continue to
remain in his service. The sentence
was stayed by the court pending an
examination of the testimony.
THOI.I.KVS BURN IX KIRK
By Associated Press
Mt. Holly. X. J.. March 29. The
power plant and car barn of the Bur
llnsrton County Traction Company, at
Hainesport. near here, were destroyed
by fire this morning. The loss is
estimated at nearly $75,000. A dozen
trolley cars were burned.
Kf.ICVI'.N DEAD IX STORM
By Associated Press
I.ondon, March 29.—Eleven deaths
so far have been reported as the re
sult of the (rreat storm which swept
the British Isles dtirng Monday and
Tuesday. Although the storm has sub
sided, railway, telegraphic and tele
phonic communication is still de
moralized throughout the United King
dom. much damage having been done
tracks and wires, while roadways on
all sides are blocked by fallen poles
and trees.
MORE WII,KES-It.M»HK RIOTS
By Associated " ess
Wilkes-Barre, Pa., March 29.
Another outbreak in the strike of the.
employes of the Wilkes-Barre Rail
way men occurred to-day when a
crowd of young men who hooted a
crew were tired upon and James
Walsh, aged 18, of this city, was
wounded in the leg. Walsh claims he
was passing by at the time and was
not a part of the crowd.
IIARRISBURG, PA., WEDNESDAY EVENING, MARCH 29, 1916.
FLYING FORCES OF AMERICAN
CAVALRYMEN RELENTLESSLY
CONTINUE PURSUIT OF VILLA
Troopers Press Hard on Heels
of Bandit Band Riding at
Fall Speed Toward Moan
tains of Tarahumare; Car
ranza Men Lose All Trace
of Him
Believed Outlaw Will Estab
lish a Base as Soon as He
Succeeds in Throwing Cav
alry Off Scent to Recruit
Dwindling Forces; Fear
Marauding Campaign
By .Issociated Vrtss
JEI Paso. March 29.—The hunt for
Francisco Villa by the flying columns
of American cavalry continued relent
lessly to-day, but from the meagerness
of official dispatches from Gen. Persh
ipg's advanced base it was impossible
to learn the positio nof the American
troops and how far they were in the
rear of the fleeing bandits. Villa was
last heard of heading southward to
ward the Tarahumare mountain coun
try, his command driving their Mexi- \
can ponies at full speed and j
closely pressed by the American troop-1
ers.
Commanders of the Carrnnza troops!
now in the Chihuahua region appar-!
ently have lost trace of Villa and his'
men, for no report has been received
by Mexican officials here for some 1
time concerning the bandit's where-1
abouts.
Armed Bands Scatter
Armed bands of Villa forces are re-;
ported, in various parts of Chihuahua;
and In some numbers around Tor-1
reon.
Carranza officials in .Juarez express
their belief that Villa will try to estab
lish a main base at some point after
he has thrown the American cavalry
off liis trail and then recruit his com
mand to one of large proportions from
the bands now roving about the south
ern Chihuahua district. Villa. the
Carranza officers think, will then en
gage in a marauding campaign that
would give the American and Car
ranza fortes no end of trouble.
In the absence of any of the news
of the chase the border has settled
down to speculation, based on such
slim facts as are brought back to the.
United States by American mining>
[Continued on J.]
SHIP CARRYING
AMERICANS TRIED
TO MAKE ESCAPE
Submarine Within the Law in
Attacking Englishman, Wash
ington Finds
SUSSEX WAS TORPEDOED
International Difficulties May
Follow U. S. Investiga
tion
By Associated rress
Washington, D. C., March 29.—The
! British horseship was first shelled and
then torpedoed by a German subma
rine, according to affidavits made to
representatives of the State Depart
j ment at Liverpool by three American
survivors.
Following the receipt of this infor-
I ination to-day, officials said it seemed
. clear that the Englishman had tried
to escape. The submarine was oper
ating within the law in shelling and
torpedoing the Englishman, if the
vessel was fleeing to escape capture
as is Inferred by officials here from
the dispatch.
The German Government has been
asked whether any of Its submarines
! was concerned in the sinking of the
! Englishman or the damaging of the
' British channel steamer Sussex while
that ship was carrying 25 American
| passengers.
While it is indicated that the case
of the Englishman may not lead to
! difficulties between the United States
and Germany, if it is proved she was
escaping, over-night dispatches to the
State Department from Dover seem,
officials said, to bear out previous al
legations that the Sussex was tor
pedoed. American consular represen
tatives, it was said in the dispatches
had secured from various survivors at
Dover affidavits confirming those by
survivors in France. The contents of
the dispatches was not disclosed here.
She Gets Divorce
Because Two Baths a
Year Is His Limit
Akron, Ohio, March 29.—Two baths
a year, one every six months, were the
limit for George S. Laird, according to
testimony of his wife. Pansy E. I.,aird,
who was granted a divorce to-day by
Judge W. J. Ahearn. Mrs. Laird said
she pleaded with her husband to take
| a bath, but it was useless.
U-BOATS HAVE SUNK
70.000 TONS; MAT HALS SUFFER
London, March 29. Summarizing
the work of the Germans since .March,
15, when their new program of sub
marine warfare against the entente
allied trade began, the Dally Tele
graph says they have In less than a
fortnight sunk 70,000 tons of shipping,
of which one-third belonged to neu-1
i
Colonel Dodd Is Riding Maharajah After Villa
i
'' o'
H
»£
Colonel George A. Dodd. who leads in the chase afler Villa, is riding
the magnificent horse on which he Is here shown. This is Maharajah, a
j horse on which the colonel has won many blue ribbons at Ohio horse
I shown. The photograph was len-t by Mm. Dodd. who*"' home Is near
1 Ilea. N\ Y. Tht>ro Isn't a horse In all Villa's army tliat approaches this
one—perhaps not 10-RV^AlWiifio.
'*• ' *•' i ■ - ...
CIGAR FACTORY GIRL STRIKERS
CLUB FELLOW-WORKERS WITH
UMBRELLAS; POLICE CALLED OUT
Seventy-five girls. employed as
lmnch makers and rollers at the Dau
phin Cigar Company factory, 714 State
street, went on a strike this morning
for higher wages and when other girls
employed by the company attempted
to enter the plant the strikers clubbed
them with wet umbrellas.
The police were notified yesterday
TEUTONS ADVANCE
ON VERDUN ALONG
FRONT OF A MILE
Storm French Positions North
of Malancourt With Con
siderable Success
The Germans have made another
notable gain in their drive against
Verdun, according to to-day's official
announcement from Merlin, storming
French positions north of Malancourt
to the depth of several lines along a
I l out of 2,000 meters or more than
a mile.
Malancourt lies about miles
northwest of Verdun and some 2V6
males northeast of the southern tip of
the Avocourt wood, into which the
Germans pushed in their recent great
drive west of the Meuse. The French
lines here formed a broad salient,
exposed to attack from either flank
[Contfnued on Page 12.]
ENGLAND ORDERS
600,000,000 TINS
OF IRISH STEW
Pound Each With "Beef and
Beans" For Allies' Armies;
$91,000,000 Contract
Special to the Tele graph
Philadelphia, March -'9.—Six hun
dred million one-pound tins of Irish
stew for the armies of Great Britain
and Its allies have been ordered by
the commission handling food supplies
[onctlnucil on Page 12]
a 1(10,000 FIRE AT MvM>YII,I.K
Ueadville, Colo., March 29.—Dyna
mite was used to prevent the spread
of a fire which early to-day threat
ened to destroy the business district.
Ten buildings were destroyed with a
loss of SIOO,OOO. ,
afternoon that trouble was expected
i this morning. Officers Reals. Gardner.
McCann and Police Chauffeur Demma
aided a number of the girls to get
through the crowd of strikers and re
stored order with some difficulty. Later
in the morning Sergeant Page and
[Continued un Page 3.]
HOPE FOR PEACE
GROWS STRONGER;
RUMORS APLENTY
Whole Thing May Narrow
Down to Contest For Slate
Committee Control
Judging from what has been said by
Republicans in Philadelphia, Pitts
burgh, Seranton and other places, as
well as this city, in the last forty-eight
hours, there is a strong undercurrent
in favor of an adjustment of the differ
ences which threaten the effectiveness
of the party in the great conflict that
is coming this year. A general and
emphatic protest against the factional
contest that is giving aid and comfort
to the common political enemy now
entrenchced at Washington is being
heard among Keystone State Repub
licans.
Governor Brumbaugh is understood
[onctinucd on Page 12]
HUNT EMBALMER,
CHIEF WITNESS IN
POISON CASE
In Confession Dr. Waite Says ;
He Gave Him $9,000 to
Swear Falsely
By Associated Press
New York. March 29. Further de
tails of Dr. Arthur Warren Walte's ae-;
ttvities to prepar«,a defense before lie 1
was arrested for the murder of John 1
E. Peck his father-in-law. were made I
to District Attorney Edward Swann'
to-day by the prisoner himself from!
his bed at Rellevue Hospital. In addi
tion to paying $!».000 In cash and 1
${1,400 in chick to Eugene W. Ka.no.
the undertaker who embalmed Peck's
body. Waite told the prosecutor to
day that he was to have paid Kane in > (
£onctinued on Pace 12]
RIVERIS ABOVE
FLOOD
TO GO HIGHER
Susquehanna Passes 17 Foot Mark at Noon and Will Co
to 19 by Tonight Says U. S. Weather Bureau Fore
caster; Market Street Subway Flooded and Cars
Must Be Switched by Way of State and Race Streets;
Water Backs Into Cellars
WATER SUPPLY COMMISSION WARNINGS
SAVE MANUFACTURERS FROM BIG LOSSES
Juniata Highest in Eight Years, but Is Receding; Torren
tial Rains Swell Streams All Over State; Pittsburgh
Waters Overflow Banks; Property Damage Heavy in
Many Places; Cloudbursts in Franklin County De
stroy Wheat
I lie Susquehanna river reached the flood •stage of seventeen feet
here at 12.15 o'clock this afternoon, and will probably crest at 18.5
or I*' feet between 8 and 9 o'clock to-night.
During the last twenty-four hours, torrential rains continued
in the State, and all of the small streams, branches and main rivers
passed the flood stage bv several feet at many points, causing a num
ber of plants to suspend operations, inundating roads, railroad tracks,
and causing thousands of dollars' loss to property and crops.
The west branch of tlie Juniata i
river Hood waters are passing Harris- j
but* now. l-'iood stages have been I
passed at many points on the North
Branch however, and flood warnings
have been sent out to Wilkes-Harre
and Danville, predicting stages of ap
proximately 21 and 17 feet, respect
ively.
Cloudy and warmer weather will I
follow the continued rain to-night ac
cording to the forecast with the mer
cury touching 38 degrees.
Water in Market Street Subway
Water begun to back up in the Mar
ket street subway shortly after noon
and the ilarrisburg Railways Com
pany started arrangements to'sliift all
of the cars running out Market street j
to Allison ilili and suburban points, to
the State street Uae. Steelton anil i
Middletown cars will have to run over 1
the Race street tracks,., if the water
rises rapidly.
Many of the cellars in South Ilar
risburg homes were flooded this morn
liii juftyli n
■Aog4''p.lP-ißl ,> raEy'^ ,W |
Harrisburg. The river stage will probably exceed I
19 feet before midnight, according to a local United States L
weather bureau forecast. At 4 o'clock it was 18.1 feet. T
THREE ASPHYXIATED
Pottsville, Pa., March 29.—Theodore Schneck and two j *
daughters, aged about five and 6ight years, were asphy.-.i- i
! ated by coal gas at their home on a farm two miles east of
Pine Grove this morning. |
U. S. MAY USE MEXICO TRAINS I f
Washington, March 29.—General Carranza has agreed
to permit the movement of supplies to the punitive expedi- a J
tion in Mexico over the Mexican Northwestern railroad, i
The supplies will go as commercial freight to concerns in - )
1 Mexico with which the army has contracts. J
SUGAR RESOLUTION REPORTED OUT [
j I Washington, March 29.—Senator Simmons to-day re- j
1 ported to the Senate the amended House free sugar repeal I
( resolution which would extend the existing duty of one cent
j a pound on sugar until May 1 1920. ' F
'! CONGRESSIONAL COMITTEE OFFICERS «J
* Washington, March 29.—Officers of the National Re- ;'
1 publican Congressional Committee were elected to-day and i J
J included Representatives Woods, lowa, chairman, and Gra- >
ham, Pennsylvania. t »
DOZING TOWERMAN BLAMED FOR WRECK ' '
Cleveland, Ohio, March 29. A slip on the part of a i
dozing towerman was to blame for the wreck according to L
• > A. S. Ingalls, general superintendent o fthe New York Ccn- '
' tral. The towerman's wife had been ill it was learned and :.
I J he had been without sleep practically since Sunday night. ?
1 San Antonio, March 29. Francisco Villa was moving |
l > towards Santa Catarina, in the Santa Maria Valley, four >
; days ago, according to information obtained by Colonel f
I Dodd, Sunday, and forwarded to General Funston to-day K
by General Pershing. General Pershing reported that the I
residents of the valley appeared friendly to Villa, adding £1
' * that it was with great difficulty that the scouts with the * '
American troops had learned anything from them regarding i,
1 ► his movements.
, > MAK&AGE UCENSES •'
Jnt-jth P. Kkary mill Kiln M. Flicker, elt}.,
.liilin SI. Dlckxon, Tyrone, anil K»n K. Allrr, Mnklnu Vnlle), Pn. j
I Hnjmond K. Slrnw, l.ucknon, uml Idn HI. Julinnlon, Fort HunU-r. S
M II 11^1/II H 111
CITY EDITION
14 PAGES
i ing, extinguishing furnace flres, and n
number of people moved cellar furni
ture to the first floor. At l.ochiel a
! large number of new houses wort
flooded. Nearby streams are ovei
their banks and the water is spreading
in a sheet several feet deep over a
| number of fields in the county, cover
• ing several acres in some places.
Still Much Snow
No serious property damage wa?
! caused, and manufacturing plant."
warned by bulletins from the StaU
Water Supply Commission, took pre
cautions against, the flood. Dispiu
the heavy rains along the watershed?
much snow remains in the mountains
j according to reports. All over thf
| State the worst conditions in years
wore experienced.
j At Pittsburgh, the Allegheny anil
Monongahela rivers passed the danger
stage of 22 feet at an early hour am
continued to rise. Warned by th<
rContinued on l'age 7]
