Weekly
PIONEER PAPER OF ARIZONA
PRESCOTT JOURNAL-MINER, WEDNESDAY MORNING, MARCH 29, 1916.
FIFTY-SECOND YEAR
fit
ffa fft jt ft
RAILROAD PROBLEM CRUX OF MEXICAN SITUATION
Francisco Villa and his raiders photographed for the International Film Service,
Below is General Robt. T. Evans, who is in command of one of the Anericm columns invading Mexico.
X
: : : : M
. o aras'af. i
Break Imminent Between
U. S. -And Germany Over
Torpedoing Of the Sussex
WASHINGTON", r..'vdt-2?. - Al- ftc channel steamer Stissce-vas sunk,
ministration officials view the subma- according to information rcachir-g the
rine situation seriously. If German American embassy this afternoon,
submarines were responsible for the i Joshua Dickinson Armitagc of New
attacks on the steamers Englishman York was badly injured and is in a
and Sussex, the possibility of a dis-j hospital at Dover. Professor Mark
continuation of diplomatic relations . Baldwin and his wife, who were rc
with Germany will be discussed. ' ported lost, were saved. Their daugh-
Consular Agent Whitman, at Bou-jtcr Elizabeth wa badly injured, and
logne, was informed this afternoon j is also in a Hospital at Dover.
that part of a torpedo had been found j
on the Sussex. Losses Arc Appalling.
It was authoritatively stated this af- j BERLIN, -March 27. "Correspond
tcrnoon that Germany is prepaicd to j cnts on the Russian front arc unani
repudiatc the act and punish the convjmous in the statement that the losses
mandcr of the submarine attacking of the Russians in their -lew offens
thc Sussex. ,ive wcre appalling." says the Over-
seas news agency today. It adds that
No Americans Killed. the Russian authorities "dropped a
PARIS, March 27. No Americans curtain of fire behind the Russian
were lost' in the catastrophe in which troops," to push them forward.
UIDIII QIT PCDM
VmULLIII uLUII
IRE BOU
By WATTE
NEW YORK DENTIST EVI
DENTLY INTENDED TO
COMMIT MURDER ON A
WHOLESALE BASIS.
Q MAW OKI! V UA f
i as mm as
GERMANY'S
By Associated Press.
WASHINGTON.
March
Dy Associated Press.
NEW YORK, March 27. Virulent
disease germs were purchased by Dr.
Arthur Warren Waitc, under arrest'
charged with poisoning his million
aire father-in-law, John E. Peck, ot
Grand Rapids, according to District
Attorney Swann. An autopsy, he said,
would reveal arsenic equal in amount
to that purchased by Peck. An anal
ysis will be made to determine the'
f-i " 1' "
O
- Ex
plaining that he "hated to say it."
Rear Admiral Fikc told the house
naval committee that the fighthg
j strength of the United States navy is
only about half that of Germany. He
declared that tne rs.vy is getting only
about 75 per cent of the value of the
! mnncv evnpnrlof!
O
"Honor" Farm At .
Spokane Is Closed
By Associated Press.
SPOKANE, March 27. Officials
today closed the "honor farm" where
county prisoners worked out their
fines. Since prohibition became effec
tive the number of prisoners nas been
so small that it has not paid the
county to hire a guard for the farm.
VICTIM OF PNEUMONIA
i U.. Alar. l nom
as Pence, secretary of the Democratic
national committee, died here this
morning of pneumonia. He had been
ill for several months. Pence direct
ed the political administration work
... -. . i. ,t T,iir.
! oi inc commmec. w. n. ivoinsicr.
I secretary to Senator Stone, has been
lacti-ig as secretary during Pence's
I illness.
i
, c
NURSE STRANGLED
DAT I t; Mnr-i. ?7 The l.niK- n
Miss Z. M.
Cramer, a nurse, was
found today in the high school cam
pus. She had been strangled to death,
evidently after a desperate struggle.
'New And Greater Assault
On Fortress Verdun Has
Been Started By Teutons
Army Officers Privately Admit That
The Question of Getting Supplies To
The Front is Growing Serious; Bandits
Cross Border and Raid Ranch,
v r r
By Associated Press.
1 $ s v n
EL PASO, March 27. The ranch of former Mayor Kcllcy, 30
miles east, was raided by Mexican bandits who drove off the cattle
and beat the caretaker. Two detachments of the Eighth cavalry wcre
sent in pursuit of the bandits in an effort to cut off their escape across
the Rio Grande, near Fabens.
LONDON. March 27. The contin-
nation of the violent bombardment
least of the river Meusc and north of
'Verdun indicates the inception of new
German attacks.
A general German and Bulgarian .
attack has been made against the
French and British lines at Salonikt. j
Bcrlh declares that Saturday's Brit
ish air raid on the German aviation
base on the North Frisian coast fail
ed. The British admit the loss oi
(thre
French transport by. a mine near Sa
loniki. One hundred varJs of German
(.diii'li nc nnnr Ztnri u'lTP lilnivn 11 n 1
today.
A SAMPLE OF MEXICAN CO-OPERATION
SAX ANTONIO, March 27. Villa's escape from the region of
Namiquipa was followed by a victory over part of the Mexican gov
ernment troops, unopposed by the other detachments, according to
credible reports. The troops across his path gave way with a will
ingness that indicated their co-operation with him, rather than with
the American forces.
I
4-
4- 4 4-
Entente Allies Hold Conference.
the Entente Allies began today at i
the Eententc Allies began today at
the ministry of foreign affairs, the his
toric meeting place of diplomats.
General Joffrc' and Earl Kitchener
aeroplanes and a torpedo boat j addressed the assembly on the exist
4
TRYING TO DRIVE VILLA INTO A CORNER
CASAS GRANDES, March 27. Villa is flying southwest toward the
foothills. The rapidity of his flight is precipitating American pursuit, and all
arms of the service are being used in an attempt to comer the bandit.
ing military situation.
' destroyer.
Eleven lives wcre lost when the
' British steamer Minneapolis was sunk
last week in the Mediterranean,
j One Frnch and two Britisn steam
ers and one British bark were sunk
jloday. Most of the crews wcre saved, according to Lloyds. The crew is
Berlin reports the sinking of a : aboard a tug.
(By courtesy of Los Angeles Herald')
LITERACY TEST FEAR REPETITION
APPROVED BY : OF 1913 FLOOD
THE HOUSE j DISASTER
CHASE WILL BE LONG AND TEDIOUS
EL PASO, March 27. Convinced that the chase of Villa is going to
' prove long and tedious, attention here turned tonight to the railroad situa
tion. Dispatches from Washington and San Antonio showing that the mili
tary authorities are becoming increasingly impatient for the completion of
arrangements with Carranza for the use of the railroads, confirmed the belief
Manchester Sunk. ! tj,at tjje railroad problem is at present the crux of th- situation. Army
LONDON, March 27. The British '. officers privatciy admit that the question of getting adequate supplies to the
steamer Manchester, from Pniiadel-. . . . ..... - j
ptia for Manchester, has been sunk. , front is grow.ng senous and say that motor transportation is madequate.
Thousands ot tons ot supplies ana ammunmon are in warcuouscs rcauy
for shipment south the minute Carranza grants the privilege of the use of the
railroads, Funston will furnish his own rolling equipment, not depending on
Mexican rolling stock. The train crews will all be Americans who have seen
service in Mexico.
TO CARRY CASE
TO SUPREME
COURT
By Associated Tress.
SAN FRANCISCO, March 27.
Announcement was made of an ap-"
peal to the United States Supreme
court from a decision of the District
court enjoining an order of the Inter
state commerce commission which
made Sacramento, San Jose, Stock
ton and Santa Cla.n non-terminal rate
points on westbound transcontinental
freight.
SALONIKI BOMBARDED
LONDON, March 27. A semi
official dispatch from Saloniki says
It is believed she was attacked by a five German aeroplanes bombarded
negro. iSaloniki early Monday. Eighteen
civilians were killed and 21 wounded.
rty Associated Press.
WASHINGTON, March 27. The
literary test in the immigration bill,
'.jarring with a few exceptions all
ilicns over 16 physically capable of
"-cadiiig. and who cannot, was approv
ed by the house as a committee of
the whole, the vote of 225 to S2 pre
saging its passage by an overwhelm
ing majority, despite the record of
vetoes of several similar measures.
SONORA TO KEEP OUT BANDIT
DOUGLAS, March 27. General Gomez, commanding 2,000 de facto
troops, arrived af Agua Prieta today for a conference with General Calles.
! Gomez left his troops in the vicinity of Cumpas and Moctezuma, 150 miles
south of the border. New troops will be stationed at Esqueda, 35 miles south
of Douglas. It is stated that the new troop movement is for the purpose of
; establishing a mobile force in a position to strike rapidly northeast and south-
east and block any Villa attempt to enter Sonora.
RISE IN SCIOTO RIVER
CAUSES SETTLERS TO
AVIATOR IN HOSPITAL WITH BROKEN NOSE
MOVE THEIR FAMILIES SAN ANTONIO, March 27. Lieutenant Bowen, of the First aero squad
TO HIGHER GROUND. j ron, who was injured when his machine fell near Casas Grandes, reached San
I Antonio today and is now under treatment in the base hospital. His most
By Associated Press. j
COLUMBUS, Ohio. March 27. j
Scores of families in the district ;
serious injury is a broken nose.
NEW SEA WASP
COPENHAGEN, March 27.
German submarine bigger and speed-1
icr than any nrcviously swn, and l
carrying a crew of SO, appeared off
Utsiro, on the southwest coast of
Norway. It torpedoed the Norwegian
bark Lindficld March 17th. took off
the crew and transferred them four
days later to the bark Silas, bound
for Quecnstown.
AVIATORS HANDICAPPED BY ALTITUDE
rviipnTTinv upsTinTTiTJTCTJS fnlnnii TinMan MnrrTi 97 Thr
where in 1913 a flood took more than aerQ squadron -m its weeks serv5cc surmounted difficulties greater than
30 lives arc moving to higher ground . EurODean av;ators with no serious accident. "Never" said one of the
! because of the continued rise of flic j senjor aviators ...have we flying as difficult as here under the handicap of
i Scioto riyer. The weather bureau an of over 500() feeL of th. mountains we tried to get over
: gave warning inai tne river wuuiu gu ,
o 20 feet, but declared there is no
danger of a serious flood. The levee
was raised 21 feet since 1913.
o
Sensational Case
were approximately 9,000 feet above sea level and none of the machines was
' powerful enough to carry a military load, pilot, observer and sufficient fuel
for such an altitude."
! Two of the aviators, according to dispatches, landed near a camp in a
! wood, described as the worst encountered by any aviator since the flight for
' the Mackay trophy in 1914, when Lieutenant Gersterner was killed. The
wind was so strong that it picked up plane after plane, landed them and set
TV 7 f r'Li : them back 30 feet. The wind increased and was followed by snow and sleet.
The planes remained two days on a high prairie, the aviators and guards en
during cold and hunger to insure safety.
EL
CAN
PASO,
USE WIRES
March 27. The
pnvi
j By Associated Press.
CHICAGO, March
27. The most
REPUBLICANS NOT TO FORCE ISSUE
t a nTTTiy-"rMiT ir...L ? Tli. riilur f rnif Pcnnfilirnnc trt fair?
lege of using the Mexican te.egraph scnsati , , ann act case that has , s5tuation at a conference today left thc administ.ation
wires was extended to the Lmted cv r anSc , Chicago, '"volv.nB The conference was called to con-
States troops this afternoon. An an-1 Wi, !am Rufus Edward a wealtny St. : & h addiUonal troops to the border. Funston's
nounccmcnt indicates thc arrival ot pai lumberman, and Miss Ada Cox. , S,UCI swps w r - f ,,.;..
Ti. :,..tn r.,c-A i apparent connaencc uui nc "as cnuugu iu
ne icaucrs 10 agicc iu uw nuu-ui mm . . - - .
the Americans at Madera.
o
WEATHER FORECAST
For Arizona- "Cloudy."
SENT TO TAMPICO BARBER SHOP BLOWN UP
WASHINGTON. March 27. Thc IS SLIDING SOME BUTTE, Mont., March 2. A non
gunboat Marietta was ordered today NEW YORK, March 27. U. V. union cut rate barber shop was Jyna-
tfrom Vera Cruz to Tanipico to pro-1 Extension opened at ?23'.- and closed .mitcd here this afternoon. Thc build
tcct American interests. 'at $23:s. "S was demolished.
I was begun today.
j that the lives of both could be frccl;.
) inquired into.
CASAS GRANDES "MEXICANS AIDING AMERICANS
SILVER ! CASAS GRANDES, March 27. Mexican residents of this section, rav-
NEW YORK, March 27. Silver, aged many times by Villa, are freely giving information concerning the ban
59 Ccnts. 1 d't's movements and source of supplies.
