v?
VOL. XXVIII. MANNING, S. C., WEDNESDAY, MARCH 29,-1916.NO1
CHAMPION CORN
GROWERS MEETING
STATE PRIZE WINNERS GATHER
AT BIG BANQUET HELD IN
COLUMBIA.
GUESTS OF DIRECTOR BAKER
Fifteen-Year -Old Cary McKenzie Is
Leader for Year-List of the
State Prize Winners Given
Columbia.-Ten boy champion corn
growers of South Carolina, members
of the boys' corn clubs were the
guests of honor at a banquet given
in Columbia at the Jefferson hotel by
L. L. Baker of Bishopville, state agent
for the boys' club work. Gov. Man
ning and other state officials attended
the banquet. Each of the young
champions was presented with a prize.
Last year 1,069 young boys were
enlisted in the agricultural clubs of
the state. These boys produced 22,125
bushels of corn, worth $12,662.23. The
average cost per bushel was 42 1-2
cents. The average yield per acre
was 49.6 bushels.
Cary McKenzie of Hamer in Dillon
county won the first prize for the
state. He produced 164.2 bushels of
corn on an acre at a cost of 9 cents
per bushel. This is considered by the
government experts to be the best rec
ord for the South. James W. Draffin
of Lesslie in York county produced
106.42 bushels on one acre at a cost
of 26 cents per bushel. He received
the second prize at the banquet. Boy
kin McCaskill of Camden won third
prize. He produced 121.4 bushels on
one acre at an average cost of 17.2
cents per bushel.
The congressional district winners
who attended the banquet were:
First district-Neal Hodge, Man
ning, Clarendon county, 64.x4 bushels
of corn at -28 cents per bushel.
Second district - James Frankie
Fail, Govan, Bamberg county, 114.08
bushels of corn, at 35 1-2 cents per
bushel.
Third district-Ernest Brooks, Pros
perity, Newberry county, 95.42 bush
els of corn at 19 1-2 cents per bushel.
Fourth district-Lewis Jackson,
Weliford, Spartanburg county, 65.08
bushels of corn at 42 cents per bushel.
Fifth district - Robert McCaskill,
Camden, Kershaw county, 108 bush
els of torn at 24.5 cents per bushel.
Sixth district-Travis Godbold, Eu
onia, Marion county, 100.32 bushels
of corn at 31.5 cents per bushel.
Seventh district - -Jacob- Monts,
Blythewood, Richland . county, 79.42
bushels of corn at 17.5 cents per
bushel.
Data on Farm Management
Orangeburg. - Government experts
are in Orangeburg county securing
farm management data. C. E. Hope,
en expert in farm management, has
been in the county at this work for
the past three weeks. A. ~G. Smith,
an agriculturist, who is in charge of
the work In this county, has been at
work here this week and will stay
iu.e until the work is completed.
About four more men will be brought~
to the county right away to assist in
this work.
A bulletin will be Issued covering
work on 250 Orangebur-~ county
farms. - This bulletin will show the
cost of farming on ef ficiency- basis.
This bulletin will be of great value,
as what holds good with these 250
.farms will likely hold good with all
farms in the entire county, the only
one in South Carolina that this work
is going on in.
South Carolina Will be Represented
Columbia-South Carolina will be
well represented in the conferences,
an don the programme of the South
ern Sociological congress, whieh will.
meet in New Orleans April 12-16. Im
portant subjects relating to the social
-and civic growth and progress of the'
Scuthern States will be discussed and
a veritable council of war against'
diease, crime and ignorance will be
held, with 2,000 or more Interested
people present . and participating.
Among the speakers will be the cel
ebrated W. A. Evans, M. D., of Chica
MissIng Aviator Spartanburg Boy.
Spartanburg.-Robert H. Willis, one
of the two lieutenants of the First
,ero squadron of the United States
forces who was lost in the desert foot
bills of- the Sierra Madres in Mexico.
is a Spartanburg county boy and resid
,ed for a number of years at Landrum
,and Inman in this county, where his
Lfather, R. H. Willis, taught school. He
is a brother of Alfred Willis of Spar
tanburg and Mrs. Roland Lee, wife of
,epresentative Roland Lee, a member~
of the South Carolina legislature from
this county, is his sister.
M. M. Mann of St. Matthews, clerk
of the senate, was in Columbia recent
ly relative to the issuance of the' sen
ate journal in permanent form within
the next few weeks. "Copy" is now
in the hands of printers, and the work
Is to be completed with dispatch.
The Interborough Power company of
Spartanburg, with a capital stock of
$100,000, has been commissioned by
the secretary of state. The company
is formed for the development of Hill's
shoals on Tyger river 16 miles south
of Spartanburg, where there is said
to be a possible development of 3,000
horsepower.
er Clarendon'
METZ'S I
TEACHING ADULTS
PRODUCES RESULT
AGED FATHERS AND MOTHER
ATTEND NUMEROUS NIGHT
SCHOOLS IN STATE
DISPATCHES FROM COLUMBIA
Doings and Happenings That Mark
the Progress of Scuth Carolina Peo
pie, Gathered Around the State
Capitol.
Columbia
"I feel like I wuz goin' to new
groun', 'thout no tools!" was the way
one South Carolina farmer expressed
his sensation on accepting an invita
tion to become a pupil in one of the
adult night schools in this State, which
are giving new hope and life to thou
sands of mature men and women
many of them parents and grand
parents-who never had the opportu
nity in youth to go to school. In a
remarkably short time this sama man
won a prize in his class.
This was one of the incidents which
came to light on the occasion of the
round-table talk instituted by W. K.
Tate, former supervisor of elementary
rural schools in this state, at a meet
ing of the elementary teachers in Co
lumbia recently.
In one county there was something
like 44 of these schools, with 2,000
pupils enrolled-2,000 grown-up men
and women going to school three
nights In each week.
The testimony of the teachers of
these adult night schools is that many
more men than women attend. This
at first was surprising; but when the
cause was investigated, it was learned
that in nearly all of these families
there are children, most of them
pupils of the day school. It was not
practical for both mother and father
to leave home at night-one had to
stay with the children, and since It
was keenly realized that education in
variably meant better pay, the wife
stayed at home and let the husband
gz to school In some cases, they took
it turn-about, the husband going half
the term and then staying at home
with the little ones, so that the wife
might attend during the remainder of
the term.
Manning Enjoys First Vacation.
COv. Manning has returned to Co
lumbia after spending seyeral. days at
St. Augustine. This was his first va
cation since entering the governor's
.offlee.
Immediately upon his return he be
gan work on signing the 5,000 state
bonds. He has already placed his
pignature on 1,600 of -the bonds - and
expects to complete the task before
the end of the week.
Because of the press of official busi
ness, Gov. Manning was forced to de
chine an invitati9n to attend a school
rally at Hamnton. He-also declined an
invitation to speak at a meeting .of
the Churchman's club at Charleston.
Announcement was made that the
zovernor 'has signed the act of the
last general assembly which provides
for the majority rule in the Spartan
.burg city counciL. There are three
members of council and under the
old law a unanimous vote was neces
sary for a deciaicn on all matters.
More insurance Companies Quit..
Four fire insurance companies, three
foreign and one Auierican, ordered
withdrawal from the state on account
of the provisions- of the Laney-Odom
anti-compact law, which went into ef
fect a few days ago. The names of all
companies that have definitely -with.
drawn ',i! .hardly be available before
April L. when companies must again
be licensed.
The companies 'withdrawing were:
The Nationale, Pheniix and Union, all
of Paris. and the Rhode Island of
Providence.
3. Arthur Banks of St. Matthews,
state senator- from Calhoun county,
who has been closely aligned with
John L. McLaurin in the development
of the state warehouse system and
has been in touch with him during the
insurance turmoil consequent upon
the passage of the anti-compact bill,
issued a statement "calling upon the
people to rally to the sovereignty of
the state."
Senator Banks also takes the posi
tion that if necessary the state itself
should protect the interests of the
rpoperty holders of South Carolina
In this crisis, commending the emer
gency suggestion of Senator McLaurin
along this line. A firm and determini
ed stand by the people in the face of
"the flood of misinformationI" being
pcattered among the companies in
New York and elsewhere in the North,
Is the keynote of his appeal.
All Powers Agree on Plan.
Washington.-All of the Entente
powers, through their embassies here,
have handed to Secretary Lansing for
mal responses rejecting the proposal
made by the state department in its
circular memorandum that they enter
into a mnodus vivendi and -disarm all
of their merchant ships with the un
derstandinig that the United States
government would endeavor to secure
from the Central powers a pledge not
to attaeh any such unarmed ehips
without warning and without providing
for the safety of the passengers.
IRememh
STEAMER SUSSEX
WAS TORPEDOED
WAS SUBMARINED WITHOUT
WARNING.-THE VESSEL WAS
SAVED.
40 LIVES REPORTED LOS1
Several Americans Were Aboard the
Sussex, and One or Two of Them
Lost Their Lives.
Paris.-Scarcely any doubts exists
at the American embassy here that
two American lives have been lost
I nthe disaster to the steamer Sussex.
The American ambassador, William
G. Sharp, sent Naval Lieut. L. D.
Smith by automobile o Boulogne and
he will investigate the cause of the
disaster and assist and Americans
who may need help.
The depositions of some of the
American survivors who have arriv
ed at Paris are .being taken by the
embassy to be forwarded to the state
department at Washington.
From 30 to 50 persons. according tc
the estimates here, out of 380 passen.
gers and the crew of 56, weh lost
The weight of the testimony is that
the Sussex was torpedoed by a sub
marine, without warning.
At least two Americans on board
are known to have been injured and
one of -.he survivors declares that
Miss Elizabeth Baldwin, an American.
lost her life, while another American
passenger is reported missing.
Cable despatches say that the loss
of life on the Sussex may reach a total
of 40.
No confirmation could be obtained
at the ministry of marine this after
noon of the number of lives actually
lest in the disaster, but the estimate
of 40 was considered unlikely because
it was the women and children's sa
loon forward where the vessel was
struck.
A single, narrow companionway led
from this saloon. There were only five
private cabins on the boat, four cr
the deck and one between decks, hence
the public saloons were crowded
These cross channel steamers always
are full because there are only three
crossings each way weekly.
The officers of the Sussex warned
the passengers quickly not to be alarm
ed, but a number of persons, mostly
women are said to have jumped over
board. Some were drowned and oth
ers with life preservers were picked
up after considerable delay, in a few
cases as much as four hours later.
HEAVY FIGHTING CONTINUES.
Germans and French Keep up Vigorous
Bombardment.
London.-It is still in the French
and Russian war theaters that the
heaviest battles are in progress, bui
fghting also Is continuing in the Aus
tro-Italian zone, in Serbia near the
Greek frontier and in Asiatic Turkey.
The French are keeping up their
vigorous bombardment of the woods
of Malancourt and Avocourt, north!
west of Verd -n, which are held by the.
Germans, and also are hammering
away with their guns at German lines
of communication In the eastern
fringes of the Argonne forest.
All along the Russian front from
the region of Friedrichstadt to the
district areund Vina the Russians
and Germ' is are hard at grips. Petro
grad says that near Widsy, between
Dvinsk and Vilna, the Russian forced
all the German lines and barricades
and repulsed a vigorous German coun.:
terattack.
Berlin, however, says that here the:
Russian attacks faIled with heavy
losses before the German entangle
ments.
Tells of Navy's Needs.
Washington.-Rear Admiral Bradley
A. Fiske declared before the house'
naval committee that regardless ol,
how many ships were built, it would:
be impossible to carry Out the general
board's plan for making the American
navy equal to any afloat by 1925, be..
cause it would take ten years longer
to develop and train the personnell
necessary to man the navy in first
rank.
Agree on Speed-Up Plan.
Washington.-House Democrats ad
opted a resolution outlining a plan for:
speeding up the administration legis
lative program with a view to adjourn
mcnt before the national political con
ventions in June as urged by Presi
dent Wilson. They pledged them.
selves to co-operation In earlier daily:
meetings and to such ight sessions as
may seem advisable. The plan is te
hande, at night sessions the business
of all special days in the week except
the so-called calendar Wednesday.
Norfolk His Big Fire.
Norfolk, Va.-Two fires of unknown:
origin, caused damage estimated at
$262,000 in this cIty. The Progress
building, in the heart of the whole
sale district in Water street was com
pletely destroyed, the loss being plac
ed at $237.000. The plant of the Colo
nial Cereal Company in Brambleton
Avenue. was also destroyed. the loss:
being $25.000. The fire at the cereal
pant had just been gotten under con-;
trol who-. the Progress building situa-;
ted in the western end of the business
section was discovered on fire.
s Big Celebra
AND from C
VILLA ESCAPES
MEXICANTROOPS
BANDIT LEADER HAD NO TROU,
BLE IN LICKING CARRANZA'S
TROOPS.
U. S. CAVALRY IN PURSUIT
Americans are Handicapped-250 Miles
From Base and Hunt In Moun
tains Is Difficult
San Antonio. Texas.--Francisco Vil
la has escaped from the Mexican
troops that had checked him near
Namquipa and three columns of Amer
lean cavalry are pursuing him.
Already they are almost 250 mileq
south of the border and unless Mex
ican forces bring the elusive bandit
to a stand. this distance will be great
ly increased by the close of the week.
Villa's success in extricating him
self, from the dangerous position into
which he had been driven by the
American punitive force was related
in a detailed report by General Per
shing that reached General Funston.
General Funston forwarded the re
port to Washington without making
public any but the essential features.
Colonel Dodd Is commanding the ad
vanced columns that are riding hard
after Villa and his men and General
Pershing has -divided his forces so as
to provide supporting columns along
the thinly stretched lines of commun
ication from his most advanced base
at El Valle. From El Valle another
line is being maintained back to Casas
Grandes from where communm 'n::
with the border is maintained- Gen
eral Pershing himself is somewhere
south of Casas Grandes dii-ecting the
work of holding together his forces and
directing so far as possible the opera
tions of Colonel Doad. Cavalry is be
ing used along the lines communi
ating with El Valle where a detach
ment of infantry is stationed.
Three aeroplanes are at El Valle
and will be used in scouting as soon
as the high winds that have been
sweeping that part of Mexico for al
most a week subside. These winds,
according to General Pershing, have
made effective assistance by the aero
planes impossible. Of the eight ma
chines that went into Mexico two are
still out of commission.
Details of the operations about
amiquipa that concluded with the
escape of Villa were not revealed, but
there is little reason to believe that
he was badly whipped or even weak
ened by the fighting directed against
him by the de facto government troops.
IMPATIENT WITH CARRANZA.
Delay in Granting Use of Railroads Is
Not Pleasing.
San Antonio, Tex.-Carranza's delay
n ermitting the movement into Mex
over the Mexican Northwestern
ai ilway of supplies for the American
roops has created impatience at army
eadqurters that was hardly disguised
'he quartermaster department has
snt to El Paso a quantity of stores for
mmediate shipment and officers here
did not credit an unofficial report that
eneral Obregon had declared that no
ermission for use of the line would
e given.
Failire to send supplies over the
railroad would not stop the cam
paign, it was said, but it was admit
cd that it would materially - retardj
General Pershing's activities. Al-i
eady the change in the position of
the United States forces, observers
here pointed out,. would make the line
f National Railw'ays of Mexico, which
goes straight from Juarez to Chisua
hua. the logical one to use.
Whether General Funston requests
the government to get permission to
use the National. however, will de
pend upon the answer to the request
already made, he said.
Another Grand-Daughter For Wilson.
Philadelphia.-A daughter was born
o Mr. and Mrs. Francis Bowes Sayre
here. She is the second grand-daught
er of President Wilson and will be
amed Eleanor Axson Sayre, for Mrs.
;eyr's mother. Mother and child*
were reported to be doing well.
Jess WIllard is Still Champion.
New York.-Jess Willard is still the
heavyweight pugilistic champion of:
the world. In 10 rounds of fast fight
ing he defeatel Frank Moran of Pitts
burg here on points. A crowd of
bout 13.000 persons paid approximate
ly $150,000 to see the fight and went:
away apparently satisfied with the re
sult. It was the greatest gathering
VMadison Square Garden had ever seen.
Willard broke his right hand In the
third round but blows from his fight
ing left kept Moran at a distance.
To Make Cigars in. Greenwood
Greenwood-Greenwood's latest en
terprise is a cigar factory which will
> opened here in a few days by Joe*
C. Greene. one of the best known trav-j
eling men in the state. Mr. Greene
has secured as superintengent of the
factory R. L. Maddux of Quitman, Ga.,
n experienced cigar maker. The gov
ernment permit provides for the em
loyment of 50 people. Mr. Greene
states that he will use Havana and
Pcrl Pfcan tobacco and already has
ashipment in. He will make cigars
Shigh quality.
tion to be hel
harleston wi
PLAN FOR FIRE INSURANCE
Rock Hill Citizens Decide to Form a
Local Company-Will Apply for
Charter At Once.
Rock Hill.-A number of business
men and farmers of York county are
undertaking to solve the fire insurance
problem as far as it concerns the peo
ple of Rock Hill and section. A con
ference of these citizens was held a
few days ago at which it was determin
ed to organize a fire insurance com
pany to do a local business, the com
pany to be capitalized at $100,000.
It Is understood that satisfactory ar
rangements have already been made
to reinsure a large part of the risks
which the company will write, so that
the matter of the security of the busi
ness which will be done by this com
pany is settled from the beginning.
Among the well known citizens of
this city and section who are inter
ested in the organization of the com
pany are- T. L. Johnstcn, president of
the Peoples National Bank; Sidney
Freidheim of the large mercantile
firm of A. Freidheim & Brother; C. W.
F. Spencer, attorney; J. H. Steele, N.
B. Williams, J. A. Williford, J. S.
Glascock, C. D. Reid, R. L. Sturg!s.
D. P. Leslie, A. G. Westbrook, farmers
and business men of the county; J. B.
Johnson, merchant and president of
the Peoples Trust Company; R. M.
London, merchant and printer; Prof.
E. W. Hall, educator; C. L. Cobb,
cashier Peoples National bank; Rich
ard T. Fewell, manager insurance de
partment Peoples Trust Company.
The company will apply to the sec
retary of state at once for a charter,
and when this Is granted the details
of organization will have attention.
Organize Poultry Association
Rock Hill-At the annual meeting
of the Poultry Producers' association
of this county, an organization com
posed of poultrymen and chicken fan:
ciers, P. B. Parks, superintendent of
the Aragon cotton mills, was elected
president. Prof. C. C. Cleveland of
Winthrop college, was elected vice
president and Prof. W. R. Whitfield of
the same institution was elected sec
retary. The treasurer Is J. S. Comer
and the executive committee is com
posed of W. G. Duncan, Prof. E. W.
Hall and W. L. Poag.
The association is planning to hold
its second annual poultry show next
fall and expects to make it the largest
and best poultry exhibit ever seen
here.
Inv'te Wilson to Columbia.
Columbia-Should President Wilson
accept an invitation to come to Char
lotte May 20 for the Mecklenburg cel
ebration, it is probable that he will
continue his travels to Columbia to
jpeak before the South Carolina Press i
Association. Telegraphic communica
tions have been directed by the Colum
bia chamber of commerce to United
States Senator E. D. Smith and Con
gressman A. F. Lever to prevail upon
the president to include Columbia in
the itinerary of, his southern trip.
Colored College Dormitory Burns.
Orangeburg.-Fire destroyed the
gi-rls' dormitory of the State Colored
College here, entailing a loss of more
than $20.000 and causing the injury 'of
several of the inmates, who were forc
ed to leap from second story windows.
The loss Is partially covered by insur
nce. The fire was discovered about 1
o'clock, while the whole college com
munity was asleep. Though the alarm
was promtply given many of the 400
girls in the dormitory were cut off
from the stairs and fire escapes and
were forced to jump. Several of themt
were more or less injured, two of them
suffering broken legs. All the injured
are expected to recover.
Big Fire at Spartanburg. 1
Spartanburg.-Joseph W. Nesbitt, (
f Reidville lost by fie a marn, nine
mules, one horse, five wagons, several
undred bushels of corn, with fodder .t
and hay and much farm machinery.
The total loss is approximately $10,000
w.hile the insurance carried was onlyj(
$1,500. The fire was discovered after
ne o'clock in the morning. The ori
gin of the fire is unknown.
Constables WIthdrawn.
Charleston.-State constables hand
lng the liqu~j situation in Charles
ton since the middle of May, 1915 have
bee temporarily withdrawn from act
ivity, especially about express offices,
union station and waterfront terminals
nd may be permanently withdrawn:
from Charleston.
SOUTH CAROLINA NEWS ITEMS.'
Greenwood will soon nave a new
grammar school building. The con
tract has been let for- $22,000.
Columbia sent. a number of .firemen *
nd fire-fighting apparatus to Augusta
to help fight the big fire. A number
of volunteers also went on the special.
The plant of ,the Carolina Cotton
Mills company which has been in the
hands of a receiver for years was
c-d at auction at Greenville for $204,1
500 to A. C. Furman, a stock broker.
x Public Service Plants.
Members of the South Carolina tax 1
ommission have begun a long sessionc
nColumbia. according to A. W. Jones.
chairman. Railways. powver plants.
electric railways. telephone and tele
g-aph c-om'panics will be assessed for
the corporation license tax an:d the ad
valorern tax. Gov. Manning ha: r-t
appointed the board of rcview for
the tax commissionl. One memper is -
to be appinted fromi each congocssion
odistrict. Mar~y names have been
rs -ented.
i in Manning
11 Furnish M
School Aid Fund Not Sufficient.
The state department of educatio
has just completed the examinatio
approval and payment of the rurn
graded school aid appropriated by tb
legislature. The i'em in the appropr
ation bill carried $120,000 for consol
dated and graded schools in countr
districts. Schools with an enrollmer
of 50 pupils, an average attendanc
of 30, a term of six months, two teac
ers, a four mill tax, a two room buil
Ing and the minimum equipment pri
scribed by the state board of educe
tion, received $200; schools with a
enrollment of 75 pupils, an average c
attendance of 40, a term of seve
months, three teachers, a four mi:
tax, a term of seven months, thre
tax, a three-room building and the mir
imum equipment prescribed by th
state board of education received $30(
The standard prescribed in the las
requires one teacher for each 25 chi
Iren. This is exceedingly lo', but I
was adopted in 1912 in the hope tha
a larger number of the country di:
trcts might be induced to improv
conditions. This hope of the -lam
makers has been fully realized. Th
appropriation has steadily risen yea
by year from $15,000 to $120,000. Th
number of state aided schools has ir
creased from 58 to 559.
For the scholastic year 1914-15 th
rural graded schools numbered 400
or the scholastic year 1915-16 the
show a net increase of 159. This ui
precedented growth of nearly 40 pe
cent is an index to the rural schoc
evelopment of the state. Supt. J. I
Swearinger in commenting on th
gures said that he confidently expec
ed eight or ten belated application
which have been reported, but hav
ot yet been filed.
"To meot the excessive demands, th
state sui.arintendent was compelled t
ase $12,000 from the contingent fund,
Mr. Swearingen said. 'This cours
war followed because districts votin
i fur mill tax and trying to run si
)r seven months ought not to be de
prived of state aid after trustees hav
nade their contracts on this bass:
[ hope that the time may soon com
when the patrons of every school wil
rote a local tax for their district ani
-n a term of not less than sever
nonths.
"If this deficiency had La.t beer
nade up out of the contingent fund 5
;chools would have been compelled t
dlose prematurely. The legislatur
nust either increase the appropriation
)r raise the requirements for stat
aid. Practically one-third of th
school districts of the state have re
eived improved facilities through th
aw.
"This gratifying growth ought no
:o be checked. An Intelligent rura
population can not be trained in
schools running . less than sever
nonths. At least 800 districts are
preparing to qualify for rural grade,
;chool aid during 1916-17. To mee
:he demand, an appropriation of no
ess than $175,000 will be necessary.
The figures by counties follow, th
umber of schools affected being giver
nd the total amount allowed th
:ounty:
Abbeville, 2 schools, $500; Aiken
1,600; Anderson 33, $8,000; Bamber
i, $800; Barnwell 8, $1,800; Berkle
, $1,300; Calhoun 4, $1,000; Cheroke
), $2,100; Chester 5, $1,300; Chestet
leld 14, $3,300; Clarendon 11, $2,600
olleton 13, $3,100; Darlington 1i
5,000; Dillon 17, $4,000; Dorcheste
r, $1,600; Edgefield 8, $1,900; Fair
eld 1, $200; Florence 23, $6,100
leorgetown 3, $800; Greenville 55
;12,600; Greenwood 7, $1,500; Hami
on S, $1,800; Horry 23, $5,300; Jaspe
, $500; Kershaw 14, $2,900; Lancaste
4, $5,400; Laurens 26, $6,100; Lee
~2,000; Lexington 8, $1,900; Mariori
0, $2,000; Marlboro 77, $1,700; Ne's
erry 8, $1,900; Oconee 21, $5,100
rangeburg 21, $5,500; Pickens 1l
;4,200; Richland 9, $2,300; Saluda 11
;3,800; Spartanburg 34, $7,900; Suir
er 7, $1,700; Union 6, $1,600; Wil
lamsburg 16. $3,700; York 18, $4,200.
~overnor Manning N-ames Delegates.
Go. Manning has appointed th<
olowing delegates to attend the fiftJ
ession of the Southern Sociologica
ongress, New Orleans, April 12-16
). E. Camak, Spartanburg; R. E
Cing, Charleston; Paul H. McMillan
lharleston; M. L. Carlisle. Greenville
leorge B. Cromer, Newherry; Mrs!
tufus Fant, Anderson; K. F. F'inlay
olumbia; 3. H. Harms, Newberry
L T. Jamison, Greenwood; 3. A. Mc
>llough, Greenville; Josiah Mosre
olumbia; George W. Quick, Green
'ille; Gustaf Sylvan, Columbia; D. fl
)ouglas, Clinton; E. M. Poteat, Green
ille; John E. White. Anderson; Wil
lam Keyserling, St. Helena Island:
d!iss E. E. McClintock, .Columbia; H
(. Snyder, Spartanburg; Mrs. Johr
;ary Evans. Spartanburg; Fran]
Ovans, Spartanburg; D. D. Wallace
spartanburg.
ecretary Issues New Charters.
The Middleton Compress and Ware
iouse Company of Charleston has
ieen commissioned'-by the secretar3
>f state with a capital of $100,000
he petitioners are: F. H. Horibec1'
.nd J. . Pringle.
The Finn Jewelry store of Walter
ro has been commissioned with
apital of $500. The petitioners arn
i.Finn and C. H. Koger.
The Warhington Real Estate Cor
>oration of Charleston has been comn
nissioned. x'ith a capital of $500. The
betitioners are T. Moultrie Mordeca:
.nd Charle.s L. Pearistine. ..
The Bank of Saluda has been char
ered with a capital of $25.000. Th(
ficer are: B. W. Crouch. president;
. A. Cleman, vice president; W. A
r-ch, secretary, and J. P. Lind'.c
-FIELD D2
uic for the
England, Germany and
France Agree
e
on one thing,if on no other. They all prohibit
the sale of alum baking powders.
There must be a good reason for this.
It is because alum was found to be un
" healthful.
Royal Baking Powder is made of cream
of tartar, derived from grapes, a :.t -.l
t food product, and contains no alurm nor
other questionable ingredients.
ROYAL BAKING POWDER CO.
r . New York
FIELD DAY
1
Friday, April 14th, 1916, Beginning at 10:30 O'clock.
S Following the plan of last year. the county is divided into the
e following groups for the purpose of selecting representatives .to
take part in the Declamation contests; also for theatheleticcontests.
e Pinewood group, consisting of Pinewood. Paxville, Big Branch;
Home Branch, Silver, Grange Hall and Pineland-schools.
e Surmmerton group. consisting of Summerton. Davis Station.
i Oak Grove, Cross Roads. Panola and Jordan schools.
Sardinia group, consistinj, of Sardina, Enterprise, Harmony,
SOakdaL le, New Zi'on, (consolidated) Barrow, and New Harmony
Schools.
Turbeville group. consis,ing of Turbeville, Coker, Gamble,
Hicks. McFi ddin, 3arrineau, and Sunny Side schools.
Manning group, consisting of Manning, Alcolu, Trinity, Har-=
vir, Foreston, Wilson. Baywood, Thigpen, Mission, Green Savana
i Deep Creek; Baar Creek, and Line schools.
Each school is entitled tc send a boy and a girl representative
for each classification to the group contest event. -
1 Each school group is en GitleC to select from those contestants
two representatives, a boy and a girl, for each classification to take
part in the Declamation contests at the General Field Day occasion
Theteachers of the schools in the respective groups are ex
pected to confer and arrangei a date before the general field day to
t "try out" their representatives, and thus select one boy and one
girl for each of the following divisions:
1 Class A-Boys and girls under 12 years of age.
Class B-Boys and girls fr om .12. o 15 years of age.
Class C-Boys and girls from 15 to 18 years of age.
t - In order for the schools not to lose time from the (regular
school work, it is suggested that a Saturday be used as as-try out"
a event.
The various school groups may provide prizes for the winners
if they so decide.
The winners at the General Field Day will be given appro
priate prizes, some of which will consist of gold medals.
SIt will be seen that tihe plan this year causes boys to compete
with boys, and girls with girls.
ATHLETICS.
-The athletic sports will take place immediately after the din
ner hour. and will consist, for the Boys. of Running High-.Jump,
Running .Broad Jump, Standing Broad Jump, and racing contests,
50, 75, and 100 yards, according to age as per the declamation
rcontests
For Girls there will be rpeing contests, and such other
features as the committee may determine at the time. Pnizes to be
awarded the winners.
I LITERARY FEATURES.
Written ex.:intations will be held at: Manning on Saturday.
-April 8th.. ini whicb each school at large in the county will be en-;
tled to (:ne representative for each feature. Exammnation to be
in ::t ele een o'clock. and close at one o'clock. No pupil permitted;
o take more than one exa mination. No one permitted to enter after
1:a o'clock.
iSpelling, 5th anid 6th grades, 50 words from Hunt's Speller,
Book 2.
Spelling, 7th grades and up, 50 or more words, selected main
y from Payne's Common Words Commonly Misspelled.
-I Arithmetic-Common fractions, planned for 5th and .6th
Arithemr~etic-To cove-r common and decimal fractions, planned
for 7th and 8th grades.
'Algebra-Up to factoring, planned for 7th and 8th grades.
Algebra-Factoring and friactions above 8th grades.
Grammar-KCi[ard-Withers. Bjok I. planned for 5th grade.
IGramnmar-Kinlard-Withers, Book 2, planned for 6th and 7th
srades.
No contest ant capable of the mor-e advance work, permitated
o compete in the lower subj.ct. The contestants must actualLy
be students in the books spcificed.
Comnposition1 work~ for the wme advanced pupils on the ques
hn (of "Pr-epared nes,--Wlhy or whry not should the United States
providL large armfly and navy Y Eaeb contestanlt can take either
de of the question. Thre best comnpositionls, two from each school,
oud be sent to the County Superintendent by April 1st. The
~ners will be annoarnced on Field Day, April 14th. Suitable
przes will be awarded.
in case a ny school in the county has to close its session before
any of the dates specified, tihe teacher should plan to have the
ecool reopresentented, and ths contestants to attend the group
enet. There will be no neced for any school to be deprived of any
te ad vantages oifered.
Baseball. Basketball, and other enjoyments to complete the
day. Let all conme prepared to get the most possible out of all the
atures.
*For any additional information, Address the County superin
dent of Education.
~Y-on April 14th, 1916.
ccasion.
