5
VOLUME XXXVII.
•v
FRIENDLY CONTESTS
ENLIVEN ELECTION
NUMBER OF NEW CANDIDATES
ARE AFTER JOB OF CITY
CONSTABLE.
WARD CONTESTS IN FIRST AND
THIRD AROUSE GOODNA-
TURE RIVALRY
For Mayor
DH. L. A. FRITSCHE
For Treasurer
GOTTLIEB OSWALD
For City Clerk
WILLIAM BACKER
For Alderman—First Ward
FRED H. BEHNKE
HERMAN NAGEL
For Alderman—Second Ward
DR. EMIL MUELLER
For Alderman—Third Ward
CHRIST FILZEN
HERMAN VOGTEL
Justices of the Peace
JOHN BUSCHERS
N. HENNINGSEN
For Constable
ALFRED BALTRUSCH
J5Jbove is the ticket which will Sag pre
sented to the voters of the c&y Nwhen
iihey go to the polls next Tuesday for the
annual city election. The head df the
ticket, as -well as the candiftites for
treasurer, city clerk, aldermam df the
third ward, the two justices of the peace
.and the lone candidate for constable
ought to win the election hands down as
no one has filed in opposition.
The situation in the two wards where
there are two candidates for the position
of aldermanalso appears to be^ quiet,
at least on the surface, the several can
didates evidently being satisfied with
making a personal campaigns .and leaving
most of the electioneering to ther "friends.
Good Natured Contest.
In the first ward two seasoned cam
paigners are out for election to the
^council, Herman Nagd is after the
scalp of the present alderman. F. H.
Behnke, who has served in that -capacity
lor the past four years. The corffiest is a
good-natured one and the outcome which
ever way it may go will not \eaxe any
W spots.
In the second ward Dr. Emil Mueller
has a clear field for aldermanic honors,
being the only one to file as the successor
to Theo. Mueller who declined to longer
serve the city for business reasons.
New Timber in Third.
The candidates in the third ward,
Herman Vogtel and Christ Filzen, are
both untried timber in the affairs of city
government, although Mr. Filzen was
through a campaign a year ago when he
was defeated by L. B. Krook by a majori
ty of only 16 votes. Both of the can
didates are well known residents of the
city and their respective wards. Mr.
Vogtel is head miller at the plant of the
New Ulm Cereal Mills and came to New
Ulm 45 years ago when a child of only
five years. He has taken an active part
in the political game in past years by
coming out for his friends who were
candidates but never entered the race
himself. His friends recognized his
ability as a vote getter and campaigner
and urged him into the present contest.
Mr. Filzen was born and reared in New
Ulm. For many years he and his father
conducted a general teaming business
and for about ten years he conducted a
grocery store and saloon on North Fifth
and State streets. Since retiring from
the latter business he re-entered the
general contracting and road grading
field in which he is at present engaged.
Peace Officers File Again.
The present incumbents of the offices
of city justices, John Buschers and N.
Hennmgsen, have no opposition and no
doubt will be returned.
Although Alfred Baltrusch is the only
4 one who has taken the pains to file for the
office of constable, there are said to be
several other avowed candidates, who
expect their friends either to use the
stickers they will furnish or write in the
name in the blank spaces provided on the
ballot. Those who have come out as
candidates in this manner are Hugo
Windhorn, Henry Ahrens and Wm.
Pfeiffer. Roy Berg is also considering
the office and thinks he ought to have the
ob for himself and his police auto.
A year ago the big vote was polled in
the third ward, where over 490 expressed
their preferences. The second ward also
made a strong showing with 350 votes,
but the first only mustered a measly 188
out of a total registration of 436. The
vote this year will no doubt be lightest in
the second ward because of the absence
of a contest. The registration yesterday
was quiet and no great gains were made
in any of the wards.
The polls will be open next Tuesday
from 6 a. m. to 9 p. m. and the different
polling plaices are located as follows:
First ward, court house second ward,
opera house and third ward, city clerk's
office.
NEW ULM SKAT ONKELS BRING
HOME BACON.
Over thirty New Ulm skat players went
down to Mankato last Sunday to par
ticulate in the district tournament ar
ranged by the Mankato club. Two
sessions, afternoon and -evening, were
held at the Sons of Hermann hall.
Both of the first prizes were won by
l^Jew Ulm players. At the afternoon
session T. W. Maaxderfeld landed first
anoney Eli Klugherziof "Mankato, second
-and Peter Schweitzer of Mankato, third.
In the evening Robert Williams of New
Ulm took first prize with the remarkable
record of 25 net games Fred Pokhow,
-Mankato, second .and John Foisber, l$ew
Ulm, third.
The New players were royally
entertained 3z£y the Mankato skat Iknights,
a splendid sepast being served by the
ladies' auxiliary to the Hermann's .Sons.
Mankato and -New Ulm players have
been so well pleased with the sucoess of
the several tournaments held in the two
cities that regular quarterly tournaments
may soon be ^arranged for, alternating
between the tbwo cities.
The Ntew Ulm skat club will entertain
the state league at the nsidsummer
tourmaoent to be held in this oity some
time In June or July and it Is expected
that not only.a large number of the Man
kato players will,participate but Also the
club members of St. Paul, Minneapolis,
Stillwater, Winona, Young -America and
other places. The tournament is ex
pected to attract several hundred players.
DEPOSITS JN STATE BANKS SHOW
LARGE INCREASE.
Aeesrding to a compilation of the Ms
ports of the state banks in Minnesota
made iby Supt. of Banks Turrittin,,
deposits have increased to the tune of a
quarter of a billion during the past year,
the exact figure being $24$18,910.5&.
The net increase in the assets 5s given as
$26,984460.05. The total deposits of
all kinds amount to $192,151,699.26.
From March 4, 1915, to the day of the
call early in the present month the loans
and discounts carried in the state banks
increased $16,519,378.83, while the over
drafts were reduced by $51,464.04.
There were 79 new state banks -started
during the year, bringing the total up to
977 doing business the state.
VISITED SALOON AFTER HOURS
LANDS IN JAIL.
Frank Pechtel, 27 years of age, was
brought down from Sleepy Eye Tuesday
evening of last week and turned over to
the sheriff for safe-keeping until the next
session of the district court, when he will
be tried on a charge of petit larceny.
According to Chief of Police Black of
Sleepy Eye some one entered one of the
Sleepy Eye thirst parlors during the time
from Saturday night to Monday morn
ing and carried away a quart bottle of
snake bite medicine and tapped the cash
register for about $25. It seems Pechtel
had been doing porter work in the place
at some previous time and had made use
of the opportunity to make a duplicate
key to the front door. The booze .had
of course evaporated, but it is said that
suspicion fastened upon Pechtel because
he was spending money at an unusual
rate. This led to his arrest.
At the preliminary hearing held at
Sleepy Eye Tuesday of last week Pechtel
waived examination and was bound over
to the grand jury of the May term. Chief
Black brought the prisoner to the county
jail the same evening.
CLUB HAS WORK AHEAD.
The Commercial Club will hold its
regular monthly meeting next Monday
evening. A number of important mat
ters are coming up for discussion,
among them the report of the com
mittee which was to look into the
feasibility of arranging a business men's
and farmers' picnic during the coming
summer, the report of the banquet com
mittee and probably a tangible propo
sition from the advocates of a white way
to the two depots.
Geo. J. Haag has been appointed as
rural mail carrier for Route No. 3 out
of New Ulm, succeeding H. C. Fiene
who resigned last October. The route
has been served by Erwin Alwin, sub
stitute carrier, for the past six months.
BADLY INJURED IN
HUNTING ACCIDENT
YOUNG MAN MAY LOSE ARM AS
RESULT OF DISCHARGE OF
GUN.
CARELESS HANDLING OF WEA
PON AS USUAL RESPONSIBLE
FOR MISHAP.
WMle oi* hunting in a tocafc last
Thursday, Joseph Schroepler, ag*a 21,
received asn injury from the ^accidental
discharge off a shot gun, whichimmyresult
in the loss of his right wan.
Schroejtfer and young Albert IRoth had
been out on the Minnesota TWvaer hunting
muskrafcs during the day ami 'in their
quest had gone as far as the TMepolder
farm where they found a murriber of
houses. Schroepfer was pofing the boat
and had his gun on the seat front of
him. When he reached for his weapon
to shoot at a rat the trigger or hammer
in some manner caught and discharged
the piece, the entire load entering his
right .arm and severing fthe muscles and
arfkeries. Young Both rat once brought
h%companion to ihecitjrand the patient,
weak from the gneat »loss of blood, was
rushed to the Loretto hospital.
The ligaments 'of the arm aTe torn
horribly and even ifihe ibone of the arm
was broken by the Charge. The at
tending physician as an hopes of saving
the arm, but It as a grave question
whether this can Tie aecomplisehd-
The wounded young 'man is a wm of
Jack Schroepfer -of $02 North Broadway1.
He was an employe of the Northwestern
road in the "capacity of bridge carpenter.
STODGES ASSUMES NEW DUTIES
AT SLEEPY EYE.
~W. R. Hodges, for over 25 zyears
publisher of the Sleepy Eye Herald, last
week assumed the duties of postmaster
of his town, succeeding J. P. Graff, whose
term expired last .January. Editor Hod
ges has been am active worker an the
Democratic ranks for a .good many years,
having served on the county central
committee for nineteen and as a member
of the Democratic state central eom
mittee for the past sixteen years.
The retiring postmaster has deeided
to leave Sleepy Eye for good and haz
formed a partnership with A. R. Kelm,
also of Sleepy Eye, The two will -open
up a new store in Mankato.
Local agents of the Standard Oil
Company met at Mankato Tuesday of
NEW ULM, BROWN COUNTY, MINNESOTA, WEDNESDAY, MARCH 29, 1916.
last week for their annual conference I Agent Leary of the M. & St. L. road
and banquet. Herman Held represented I to have all trains, both freight and
the New Ulm agency. passenger, stop at the foot of Fritsche's
OUR MEN OF AFFAIRS
Coach" A. V. SEIFERT
WATER IS RECEDING
FLOOD DANGER OYER
RAMPAGE OF MINNESOTA RIVER
CAUSED APPREHENSION FOR
TIME.
NICOLLET COUNTY RESIDENTS
WITHOUT MAIL FROM RURAL
SERVICE.
Residents along the river bottom are
breathing a sigh of relief since yesterday
mrajnmg, when the lOnsrwsota river,
which was out «a its regular spring
rampage began ibo drop, alter having
Beached a stage cfosely bordering on the
danger point. The onrcialatecordTcept by
the Eagle Mfll emgme roam force showed
$he river to have reached "30 feet 8 inches
above low water mark. This high point
was reached at 5#0 Monday •afternoon
and remained there uHfijil about mid
Tiight. Since then the -waters have
receded, the guage showing a drop of
about two inches Tuesday at noon.
Flood Banger Over.
Those familiar with ^conditions west
of the city -say that .afl danger of a flood
has passed unless a heavy rain should
set in. The 'showers Uhe latter part of
last week (cleaned up what was left of
the winters snowfall .and the water out
of the doughs .and ditches has already
come down. All the ice is gone and
there is moifurther danger irom ice gorges.
The Cottonwood, which generally is
the cause of high water in the Minnesota
for several aniles abome the conflux of
the two streams, has gone down several
feet and the ice is all gone. Last week
when the ice bgean to hreak up a great
mass was piled up in the field immediate
ly below tthe Cottonwood mill dam.
Traffic over the bridge at that place had
to be suspended because of the deep
water covering the approaehes.
Nicollet County Isolated.
farmers living across the river from
New Ulm -are still completely cut off
so far as travel by team is concerned and
the only way to get to the city is either
by boat or train. Several of the boat
owners were doing a thriving business
the past week taking passengers and
freight across the Minnesota.
Cream and other products of the farm
were brought to the water's edge on the
Nicollet county side and then transferred
to boats.
Trains Ordered to Stop.
Arrangements were made Monday by
ravine and this has relieved the situation
for those living along the bottom to a
great extent as they can now do their mar
keting and shopping as usual. Several
farmers residing in that neighborhood
came to the city just before the river
began to rise rapidly and were unable
to return to their homes by team or auto.
Most of them left their vehicles in town
and returned by boat or train.
Mail Service Interrupted.
Three of the routes out of the New
Ulm postofnee serve the residents of
Nicollet county and these were unable
to continue the service. Some of the
people in the vicinity of Klossner have
directed their mail matter sent there
temporarily, but many others in West
Newton, Lafayette, New Brighton, Ber
nadotte and Coartland townships have
been without mail for nearly a week.
For a time it was feared that the lower
bridge across the Minnesota would not
be able to withstand the rush of waters,
but Street Commissioner SMeman and
a crew of men managed to save the
structure by loading it down with tons
of rock. The water came to an even
iewei with the floor of the bridge proper
and both approaches were under several
feet of water.
The water came to within a few inches
of flowing into the Eagle Roller Mill
elevator, but did not do any damage.
Several gardens near the lower bridge
were completely wiped out and several
wooden fences constructed along the
iriver bank were swept down stream.
during the early part of the flood the
•Cottonwood •changed its course upon
entering the Minnesota and was flowing
up the Minnesota at the Redstone rail
road bridge. It is believed that the
narrow strip of land coming to a point
at the conflux of the two rivers has been
washed away and that the river bed will
be hut a short distance below the rail
road bridge when the flood has subsided.
While there has been some damage
to the fields along the bottom on both
sides of the river through the inundation
no reports of buildings being swept away
or stock drowned have been received.
Several hay stacks on the lowlands near
the lower bridge are partly or wholly
under water and most of the hay was
spoiled.
FORMER' NICOLLET RESIDENT
BELIEVED MURDERED.
Fred Riegel, a former resident of
Nicollet, is believed to have been mur
dered on his farm near Detroit, Minn
His body was found only last week,
although he had mysteriously disap
peared about March 1 and it is believed
that the body had been out on the field
since that time covered with snow.
Riegel was a bachelor and lived alone.
He was born at Nicollet in 1875 and
lived there for a number of years. He
removed to Redwood county and about
six years ago to Dakota. Three years
ago he purchased the farm near Detroit.
Although there seems to be no known
motive for the murder, marks on the
body indicate that he came to his death
at the hands of another. The Becker
county authorities are making an in
vestigation of the affair and hope to
clear up the mystery.
Deceased has a number of relatives
living in the vicinity of Nicollet.
NEW ORGAN IS DEDICATED.
The new pipe organ at the Lutheran
Church at Gibbon was formally dedi
cated last Sunday, several of the New
Ulm college people taking part in the
exercises. Rev. Henry Boettcher of
Gibbon conducted the services assisted
by Prof. A. Ackermann. Prof. Fr.
Reuter presided at the organ. The dedi
cation sermon was delivered by Prof.
Ackermann and appropriate music was
furnished by the Gibbon church choir and
by the double quartette of the D. M. L.
College. In the evening an organ recital
with Prof. Reuter at the instrument was
given. The college singers also partici
pated. The organ is a two manual pipe
organ.
CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION
An examination for the position of
laborer at the local postofnee will be
held Saturday, April 8. The position
was held by the late William Rausch and
comes under the regulations of the federal
civil service law. The salary allowed by
the government is $600 per year and as
it gives employment not only the year
round but is also a life job, it is expected
that the applications for the place will be
numerous. In the examination physical
ability will count 40 points and training
and experience 60 points. The age
limits for this class of service are between
20 and 50 years except in the case of
persons honorably discharged from the
military or naval service by reason of
di:ability resulting from injuries recieved
or sickness incured in the line of duty.
THE BIRTH OF A NATION MAS-
TERPIECE OF MOVIE PRO-
DUCTIONS.
REALISTIC CIVIL WAR, ANTE-
BELLUM AND RECONSTRUC
TION SCENES.
Beautiful yet terrifying, weird and
awe-inspiring, based upon actual facts in
the life of the Nation, interwoven with
scenes of mothers' love, of fathers' pride,
of sons' heroic deeds, of daughters'
honor, the hatred bred by war between
branches of a family, all gathered to
form a complete whole in a locale not
unlike that of ante-bellum and recon
struction days such is the spectacle
reviewed during the showing of the
"Birth of a Nation" at the Armory four
days and nights of this week, beginning
last Sunday. Even to attempt to
describe the multitudinous, startling
and at times to the point of tears dra
matic scenes, could only result in an
attempted aspeision upon the work of"
a master hand of stage productions and
invasion of ground seldom trod by
author, artist or actor. To say that the
music by the orchestra of over twenty
pieces supplements the things impossible
to portray upon the movie screen is
telling but half the story. Without the
music, scenic and stage effects, "The
Birth of a Nation" would hardly attract
the attention of more than a sharply
defined strip of country on both sides of'
Mason and Dixon's line. But through
the strains of music, the blare of trum
pets, the realistic cannonade of ar
tillery, and the thud of hoofs as the
thousand and more Clansmen sweep
through the reaches of the sand dunes
of Virginia, the spectator is transported
temporarily to the Southland and for
three hours lives the fifteen years of
time, preceding, during and following the
great conflict between the North and
South.
Reconstruction Days.
The story is based upon history, al
though the then leader of the radicals
in Congress is hidden under the name of
Austin Stoneman, but no doubt was a
noted personage of his time. His ideas
of the South and especially his plans
for the future of the negro race are in
great variance with those of the lamented
Lincoln. The kindly thought of the
latter to treat the South as though it had
never left the Union are regarded as too
mild by Stoneman. He wants the
Southerners treated as outlaws and
traitors and the South transformed into
a Black Nation with the negro as an
equal if not superior to the whites. His
mulatto protege Lynch serves the pur
pose and is sent among his race in
Virginia to organize his forces and bring
the blacks to a fuller realization of their
freedom by giving them the right of
ballot and control of the polls to the
exclusion of their former masters. He
finds ready response among the race of
ignorant, neglected^ and abused former
slaves and scenes of rapine, murder and
destruction of Southern homes are the
result. The courts and juries are com
posed of blacks and during the election
the carpetbaggers and negroes gain con
trol of the legislature by an over-whelm
ing majority with Lynch as lieutenant
governor. In the historic chambers of
Virginia's capitol, once resounding with
the silver-tongued oratory of its states
men, debauchery and nauseating and
loathsome scenes are enacted, until at
last the whites no longer able to stand
the strain conceive the unseen and un
known empire of the South and organize
themselves into bands of secret societies.
The movement grows until thousands are
gathered under the banner bearing the
legend of Virginia "Sic Semper Tyran
nis," culminating in the restoration of
order and submission of the blacks to
the laws of man and state. Stoneman,
the theorist, finally comes face to face
with the result of his teachings when
Lynch, the mulatto protege, demands
his right of social equality by asking for
the hand of Stoneman's daughter in
marriage. The rage of the negro upon
being refused knows no bounds and he
spurs on his fellows to commit arson,
murder and even worse.
The thread of love is ever present, even
midst the scenes of conflict upon bloody
battle fields. It begins with the visit
of college chums at the home of friends
in Washington, before the war, is carried
into the Southern home in reconstruction
(Continued on Page 2)
4
4
4
\i
*WM
:$
