TIME
VOL. XX NO. 12.
UAUKH, VKHMOXT, WKDXKSDAY, MARCH 29, 1910.
PRICK, OXK CEXT.
rTmorun to a td td uti
DAILY
MANGLED BODiES
REMOVED FROM
TRIPLE WRECK
New York Central's Finest
Trains Were Smashed at
Amherst, Ohio, Early This
Morning One Train Had
Stopped to Take on Water,
Second Collided With It
and Third Struck Wreck-age
U. S. CAVALRY
IN HOT PURSUIT
ARE HANDICAPPED
Because of Their Unfamiliarity with the
Wild Mexican Country and Be
cause Horses are ,
Corn-fed.
Kl Paso, Texas, Ma roll 2(1. Somewhere
I amid the extinrt volcanoes of the Great
Continental Divide Villa in fleeing south
ward with the American cavalry hard on
his trail. Americana familiar with the
I conditions are almost unanimous that.
operating in unfamiliar country anil
CIOCT' Cll A GIT WAQ DTTR w ith corn-fed horses, the troopers are
riUOl IHiOIt V.f0 UUXJ trememlously i1B11dicapped against the
Tf VPRV IIPAVY FOfi 1 Mexicans with mountain-bred ponies.
I Paso who are not only thoroughly fa
miliar with the country through which
Villa is fleeing, but who were also well
acquainted with the bandit chief in for
mer days. They are agreed that Yilkrf
object is the district around l'arral and
south from there to Torreon, in which
territory numerous Villa bands under the
leadership of Canuto Keyes are operat
ing with considerable success.
If Villa is able to effect a junction
w ith Reyes the problem of his extermi
nation will have ..lie-come a serious one,
as he then will be able to control several
thousand soldiers, who, split into guerilla
bands, might be able to keep up a de
sultory mountain warfare for an unlimit
ed period, they point out.
The one hope at present is that the
American cavalrvmen may be able to
catch up with Villa before he gets much
further south. Jt is admitted here that
the hope is a slender one and will be
much more attenuated if the American
troops are not given the use of the Mexi
can rairoads for bringing up supplies.
The supplies question overshadows every
thing else now. Army officers here say
that on its solution depends every chance
of a successful termination of the pur
suit of the bandit.
FRENCH
STORM
WORKS
And Drive Out the Germans
from Defenses Erected in
the Avacourt Wood They
Then Repulsed Desperate
Counter - Attacks Last
Night
Most of Dead Were in Rear
Coach or First Section of
Eastbound Flyer Only a
Few on the Twentieth
.Century Limited Were In
jured, as the Train Was
Running Slowly
FRENCH OFFENSIVE
VERY SUCCESSFUL
Cleveland, 0., March 29. With 25
mangled bodies in the morgues at Am
herst, 37- miles west of here, and 40 se
riously injured, some "of whom are dying
in the hospitals, rescue parties are work
ing frantically to recover more dead and
injured from the wreckage of three of the
. New York Central's fastest and finest
trains which were demolished in a double
wreck at Amherst early this morning.
Early this afternoon it was stated
that at least 30 were killed, the exact
number would not be known for many
hours.
The trains in the wrecks were the two
sections of train No. 88, known as the
eastbound Chicago to Buffalo Flyer and
the 20th Century Limited, the pride of
the New York Central railroad. The sec
ond section of the Flyer crashed into the
first section in a heavy fog when the
11 first stopped to take water. The 20th
Century Limited train, which was west
bound, plowed through the wreckage,
which had been hurled to the westbound
track, before a flagman could be sent out
to warn it.
Most of the dead were in the rear
coach of the first section of the Flyer,
which buckled over onto the other track
and was slintered by the Limited. Near
. ly all the dead were foreigners and only
a few have been identified. When the
crash came most of them were asleep.
There were no dead among the passengers
on the 20th Century Limited although a
number on this train were badly hurt
when two of the coaches were overturned.
The low casualties on the Limited are
attributed to the fact that the train was
going slowly on account of the heavy
fog.
During Yesterday Afternoon
the French Turned Back
Successive Waves of Ger
mans Hurled at Their
Line in Desperate Assaults
AUDITOR GRAHAM
ENTERS FIELD
FOR GOVERNOR
SOLDIER DEAD IN WRECK.
First
Paris, March 29. French troops made
an attack last night on Avocourt wood,
west of the Meuse, where a German as
suult was made yesterday. The official
statement to-day gays: '
The French carried part of the
works which the Germans had con
structed. The Germans made tierce
counter-attacks but were driven back
with heavy losses. They made no
other effort to recover the lost
ground. The recent German attack
on Malaneourt was made with a
thrown
Sayi He Will Be Candidate for Republi
can Nomination at -the Primaries
To Be Held in Vermont
Next September.
Horace Y. Graham, state auditor, of
Craftsbuiy, to-duy announced his can
didacy for the Republican nomination for
governor of erniont, in replying to
direct query from Editor Wallace H. Gil
pin of the liarton Monitor, who wrote
As vou are being frequently mentioned
for the office of governor, I am taking
the liberty of writing you ami inquiring
if vou will be a candidate for the othce
at the primaries in (September."
In response, Auditor dralmni wrote:
Pear Mr. Gilpin ! t
"I Iimvo your letter of March INth in
quiring if 1 am to be a candidate tor
governor at fio primaries in September.
'1 shall be a candidate for the iiomina
tiou to the ollico of governor at the Sep
tcmlicr primaries., Inasmuch as under
the primary law the platform of the
partv is to be made by h convention com
posed of the nominee for state senator
and town representatives and tho six
elective officers, I will only say at this
tune that from my H wars' experience
as auditor of accounts have come to cer
tain definite conclusions as to what will
tend to advance the interests of our
stxite and make the government more
efficient and less exiictisive.
"Later on I will be glad to go into
these matters in detail but for the pres
ent let me sav that I feel that we should
first adequately care for the state inti-
t lit ions we have and the state endeavori
we are engaged upon, Iwfore we take up
new enterprises, and that certain of our
boards and commissions can be consoli-
dated or dispensed with without injury
to the public service. I
"Yours very truly,
"Horace F. Graham."
REFUSED TO DISMISS CASE
WAS SHELLED
BESIDES BEING
TORPEDOED
The Horse Ship Englishman,
Bearing Americans, May
Have Tried to Escape Sub
marine, According to The
ory of Some Officials at
Washington
M. E. CONFERENCE
IS ORGANIZED
AT MONTPELIER
IT IS JUST REVEALED
SHE WAS SHELLED
American Survivors Made
Affidavits to. That Effect
at Liverpool American
Survivors of Sussex Disas
ter Also Made an Affidavit
That She Was Torpedoed
Death in the American Expedi
tion in Mexico.
Columbus, X. M., March 20. A rail
road wreck in the district south of Casas
Grandea caused the death of the first i
soldier in the American punitive expe
ditionary army, according to official dis
patches received at military headquar
ters last night. A message from General
J. J. Pershing's headquarters said that
the soldier, George A. Iludnel, a negro
soldier in troop B, 10th cavalry, had
been killed in a wreck, but gave no de
tails. Hudncll left a widow at Fort
Huachuaca, Ariz. The trooper was given
a military burial March 24, according to
tho wireless message.
PERSHING USING RAILROAD.
GIRL MAKES CONFESSION.
That She Set Fire While Trying to Com
mit Suicide.
Cleveland, O., March 29. -As 4 result
of the confession of Bessie Reimers, 19,
waitress, that, driven by fear she would
be forced into white slavery, she set lire
to the Foster apartments yesterday
morning, causing the death of two per
sons, and injury to 18, the girl was ar
rested yesterday on the charge of man
slaughter and arson.
George Hanson, waiter, 2."), and George
liauman, 20, were also arrested on the
charge of being suspicious persons, pend
ing a further investigation by the police.
In her signed confession to Chief of
Detectives ltabshaw, the girl said she
was driven to desperation by Hanson
and his associates, who she said wanted
her to become a white slave. As a re
sult of a police raid on the Foster apart
ments last week, in which she was in
nocently involved, she lost her position
as waitress and her confession declared
she sought death as a means of evading
Hanson and bis temptation.
The girl admitted that Monday morn
ing she set fire to her bed in an effort
to commit suicide, but was rescued by
firemen. Yesterday morning she turned
on two gas jets without lighting them,
bound her ankles and gaged herself so
she could not make an alarm and then
waited for death. A small stove which
was lighted ignited the gas and started
the fatal fire, she said. She was badly
burned about the shoulders.
Troops are Being Transported, According
to Funston's Report.
San Antonio, Tex., March 2ft. Confir
mation of reports that General Pershing
already has been using a portion of tht
Mexican Northwestern railroad for trans
portation of troops was secured by Gen
eral Funstun yesterday, from what was
said to be an unofficial source. This in
formation included a report of the over
turning of two cars and the injuring of
10 troopers of the 10th cavalry and sev
eral horses. Three of the men were re
ported seriously injured.
The accident occurred wliile the cars
were lieing taken over a temporary track
hat had been built around the Ciimbm i
tunnel south of Casas Grandcs. One of
the rails gave way and the cars rolled
down an embankment.
It was not believed at headquarters
that General Pershing's use of the. rail
road prior to receipt of permission from
the Oarranza government would endan
ger the negotiations now being conduct
ed by the state department, because it
was assumed he had gained permission
of those in charge of operations of that
section of the line.
fresh division which was
back with large kisses.
The latter attack by the Germans was
told aliout in the official French state
ment last night, as follows:
'"In the Argonne our artillery contin
ued active against the enemy organi
zations north of Houyette, in the sex
tor of La Fontaine Aux Charmes, and
Haute Chevauehee, as well as in eastern
Argonne.
"Our fire directed on an enemy bat
tery in the Mont Fuucon wood caused
a violent explosion.
"West of the Meuse the liombardment
was resumed w ith violence in the course
of the day against our positions extend
ing from Avocourt to Bcthincourt. About
3 o'clock the Germans launches a power
ful attack against our Honeourt-Malan-rouct
front. The successive waves of the
assault were all repulsed with heavy
losses by our curtain of fire and the
fire of tho infantry.
"Our second lines east of the Meuso
have been bombarded.
"In the Woevre our artillery concen
trated its fire on visible points of the
enemy front.
"In the Vosges the artillery action was
quite spirited m the region of Stoss
weter, Muhibach and Hnrtmnnn's Wctl-
er-Kopf."
BIG GERMAN GAIN
NEEDS OF THE NEW NAVY.
NOT SEEKING ROOSEVELT.
Infantry Attack Re-captured Ground
Northwest of Gorizia Which Was
Lost to the Austrians Last
Sundav.
Explained to House Committee by As
sistant Secretary Roosevelt. Kome- M"rh "x ltallftn infantry lias
ashmgton, March 29.-A navy w.tn j Jn f. nnrfIlu.ellf rJ nnri-
q."Vtr X t""TI! "10n.W' :'ld hich were lost to the Austrians on
needed by the In.ted States ,n time of , s , am,rdi to th(J W(tr o(IUp, Xllu
A si' ii f il .if Sanrdla.ff l!fuiffiil'nlt .u ! . ' i-
Italians took 300 prisoners, including
Is Claimed By Berlin North of Malan
eourt.
Iterlin, via London. March 29. French
positions north of Malaneourt several
lines deep along a front of 2,000 metres
have been stormed by German troops,
the official statement savs.
ITALIANS CAPTURED
300 AUSTRIANS
AND POSITIONS
So Trial of News Vending Co. Transac
tion Is Resumed.
Burlington, March 29. .Judge Zed S.
Stanton, who is presiding at the present
term of county court, announced yester
day afternoon that the court would not
grant a motion made by H. W. fitters
of the consel for the defendants in the
case, with the exception of Charles
Weeks, for whom the court yesterday
directed a verdict to be entered. The
jury was excused at If) o'clock yesterday
morning and remained out until after i
the motion had been argued, returning
about 3:30 o dock in the afternoon, when
the testimony of some of the defendants'
witnesses was heard.
Mr. Marie Xolan, former bookkeeper
of the American News Vending Machine
companv, testified as to the correctness
of certain entries in the cash and receipt
books of the companv, which showed
money received from and paid out to
Alexander, as his sbargf of .is purchase
price of the New York state riglita of the
company and as commissions on the wle
of the rights and tool equipment.
.T. K. Alexander then took the stand
and testified concerning the negotiations
leading up to the signing of the contract
letween himself and O. B. Arnold and
the American News Vending Machine
company for the purchase of the New
York state rights of the company and
certain factory equipment. He also tes
tified concerning the formation of the
F.ureka Vending Machine company and
the establishment of a factory first in
Plattsburg, N. Y., for the manufacture of
vending machines. He testified that he
never made an untrue statement to Ar
nold, directly or indirectly, nor did the
directors of his company know of his
making such an agreement. He also tes
tified that he regarded the manufacture
ami sale of the vending machine as a
practical business proposition.
Washington, D. C, March 29. Affida
its secured at Liverpool from three
American survivors of the llritish horse
ship Englishman are to the effect that
the vessel was torpedoed and shelled by
(erman submarine, according to art
vices to the state department from the
American embassy in London. The fact
that the vessel waa shelled led the otli
cials to believe that she may have tried
to escape.
Statements bv the American survivors
of thf' channel steamer Sussex secured by
consular agents at Dover are said to bear
out the theory that the vessel was tor
pedoed.
President Wilson discussed the subma
rine issue at length to-day with t'olonel
House. Counselor Polk of the state tie
partment also saw Colonel House. The
state department expects to receive from
Ambassador Gerard at Berlin some time
to-day or to-night the result of ' the in
quiry at the German foreign office into
the circumstances surrounding the dam
aging of the Sussex and the sinking of
the. Englishman. Upon the information
contained m Ambassador Gerard's reply
probably will depend the next step to be
taken by the I nited States.
STRICKEN AT LODGE MEETING.
Few
DEFENSE GIVING TESTIMONY
eleven officers.
HAS DUAL PERSONALITY.
war. Assistant Secretary Iloosevclt yes
terday told the House naval committee
He gave it as his opinion that the Unit
ed States navy was not sufficient to
cope with a first class power if th
: 1 : 4 .. 1 1 : . .
...,-r.c.. ..cjr -,,- y Dentist Waite is a "Little Bad
coasts and its possessions. rt
Comparing the American navy witli Man Some Times.
Germany's, the assistant secretary de- j Xew York, March 29. Statements in-
ciarea Germany s cost inucn less io oiiiki jicatmg that tie believed he was pos-
In Suit Alleging False Representation in
Timber Sale.
In Washington county court to-day
the trial of 1). 11. McDonald vs. Rev.
Fred McNeil, both of Barre Town, was
before the court. The defense was put
ting witnesses n the stand, I. G. Jewett
of Groton pon, a man who had been in
the lumber business for . E. Avers,
then Mr.' Avers and the defendant, Mc
Neil, testifying.
Messrs. Jewett and Avers testified
that they went to Enfield, Me., where
the timberland mentioned in the suit is
located. They measured the timber and
found 177 hemlock trees and 40 pine
trees of 12-inch diameter, excellent to
cut. They testified there was a cood
place to cut the timber and a spring!
ncirby. Both Messrs. Jewett and Avers
declared the land was worth what it was
sold for and that ft was not falsely rep
resented.
THREE LEIGHTON'S INDICTED.
Charged with Murder in Connection with
A. C. Gibson's Death.
Woodstock. March 29 The Windsor
county grand jury in special session yes
terday returned indictments for murder
against Charles I.eiglitoii and his sons,
Newell and Walter Leighton, for the kill
ing of A. C Gibson on February 24, dur
ing a dispute over the ownership of some
logs in a timber lot in Sharon. The jury
also returned indictments against the
Mrs. E. Stanton Wasgatt Died a
Honrs Later.
After an illness of only a few hours
Mrs. E. Stanton Wasgatt passed away
at her home, 1S9 Washington street, this
morning at 5:30 o'clock. Death was duo
to paralysis. Mrs. Wasgatt was taken
seriously ill while attending a meeting
of Ruth chapter, No. 33, O. E. S., last
evening, itli her husband she had gone
to the hasteni Star meeting m the
Blanchard block apparently in her usual
health. While the meeting was in prog
ress she indicated to her husband that
she was ill and retired to an ante-room,
where she suffered a slight paralytic
shock. Dr. .1. H. Woodruff was sum
moned from the Yincitia club on the floor
below and Dr. W. K. Izell was also
called and Mrs. Wasgatt was removed to
her home in an ambulance. During the
night she recovered consciousness par
tially, but it is thought that a second
shock hastened her death this morning.
The deceased is survived by her hus
bund, to whom she was married in North
Jay, Me., June 24. 1903. Three brothers
surviving are: Clifford Keep of Dryden.
Me., diaries R. Keep of North Jay and
Lzra K Keep of layette. Me. Mrs. Was
gatt was born Martha Richardson Keep
in North Jav June 24, lSti9. With her
husband she had resided in Harre for the
past 12 years. She was a member of the
Order of Eastern Star and an adherent
of the Barre Congregational church, lie
longing also to the ladies' aid society of
that church. . Her untimely end is sin
cerely mourned by many neighbors and
other friends.
The funeral will lie held at the house
Saturday afternoon at 2 o'clock, I!ev.
J. W. Harnett, pastor of the Congrcgn
tional church, officiating. 1 he remains
will be placed in the receiving vault at
Klmwood, there to repose until later m
the spring, when interment will probably
be made in North Jay, Me.
Bishop John W. Hamilton Is Presiding
Over the 72d Session and Rev. F. W.
Lewis of Groton Is Secretary
Laymen's Program Arranged.
Organization of the 7'id annual Ver
mont Methodist Episcopal conference was
perfected this forenoon at Trinity church,
Moutiiclier, Bishop John W. Hamilton of
Boston, presiding and administering holy
communion. Kcv. Altred .1. Ilougii
delivered the memorial sermon this after
noon anil this evening Rev. Patrick Jo
seph Mavcttv, D. D., of Cincinnati, and
Rev. Harry G. McCain, B. D., of Topeka,
Kan., will he, the principal speakers.
The following officers were chosen:
Secretary, Rev. F. W. Lewis, Groton;
assistant secretaries, Rev. W. R. Daven
port, Springfield. Rev. A. Mandigo, More
town, Rev. G. I,. WVlls, iiasbuig, Rev.
D. G. (Just, Richmond; treasurer, Rev.
O. J. Anderson, Derby; assistant treas
urers, Rev. C. D. Pierce, Craftsbury, Rev.
F. A. Woodworth. Bradford; biographical
secretary. Rev. Joseph Hamilton, Ran
dolph, Rev. W. S. Sniithers of Orleans
is the presiding officer.
In connection with the conference a
meeting of tho l,ivmen's association and
lay electoral conference will be held Fri
itav and Saturday, sessions to be held in
Bethany church, and Senator William P,
Dillingham, president of the laymen's
association, will deliver an address at the
opening session at 10:15 o'clock.
Laymen's Association.
Toe following program has been ar
ranged for the laymen's association:
Friday, March 31.
10:00 a. m. Devotions, business and
committees.
10:15 a. m. Address by Senator Dil
lingham.
10:45 a. m. "The Rural Church and
Its Problems," Miss Gladvs lreston of
Granville, Rev. Percival Hewitt of Bond-
ville and II. P. Simpson of Sheffield.
11:15 a. m. "Our Episcopal Super
vision or District Superintendent," Wal
ter B. Lance of Plnintield and A. C. B.
Beeman of St. Albans.
11:43 a. m. Business, adjournment.
Lay Electoral Conference.
1 :30 p. m. Devotions, business, committees.
1:45 p. m. "Lny Representation in An
nual Conference, Hon
TWO SALARIES
ARE BOOSTED
Fire Department Chief and
City Physician Each
Get $100 Moro
OTHER RUMORED
CHANGES NOT MADE
Permit for Another New
Stoneshed Was Grant
ed Last . Night
V cacii in me. u
i of the fire department!
.li'i.iVi:4 n u'prn u ill Imrl7prl
v . -v; -
J of aldermen at its regulaif
An 'increas
ponds of tv
and the
by ti. ;
meeVc1 ast night, when the salary eimn
mittee' submitted its pay schedule fo
the present fiscal year. Without an exs
ception the entries recordcjl against each
name in the report were approved. Chief
Gladding is to receive $1,100, instead of!
$1,000, his yearly salary for several
years, and Dr. P. S. Duffy's previous
lump fee of $300 was increased to $400,
No recommendation for increases wa
made in any other instance.
Talk of additional pay for the police,
the chief and the regular patrolmen ap
pears to have la-en discounted when tha
salary committee finally shaped its rec
ommendations. In circles where sucll
matters me discussed, it had been re
ported, too, that the street superintend
ent and the building inspector were to)
receive salary boosts, but apparently re
ports of this kind were allowed to go by
the board. Here is the schedule: Chief
of police, $1,050 yearly; regular patrol
men, ISO Tier month for the first two
W. B. Locklin of years and $75 thereafter, a week's vara
Richford, K. S, Hule of Windsor and Y. A.
Irish of Knosburg Falls.
2:15 p. m. "Sustentation Fund or
Minimum Wage tor Ministers," Hon.
Frank Plumley. followed by discussion.
2:45 p. m. Election of lay delegates
to general conference.
3:15 p. m. "Our Financial Problems
and How Solved." H. C. Whitehill of
Waterbury. W. H. Yaw of Enosburg
rails and B. I. Moore of Newport.
3:4, p. m. Are Longer 1 a.storatcs
Desirable," general discussion.
4:00 p. m. Adjournment.
Saturday, April 1.
10:00 a. m. Devotions.
10:15 a. m. "The Functions of the
Official Board," C. S. Andrews of Barre,
Charles I). Birtel of Montpelier and L'. n.
Howe of North 1 lieftord.
10:45 a. m. "Education." Guy Potter
Benton, D. I)., president I'nivcrsity of
Yermont; Rev. A. W. Hewitt, member
state board of education; Henry Holt,
treasurer of Montpelier seminary.
11:20 a. m. Our Sundav Schools
Past. Present and Future," Sherburn C.
Hutchinson, superintendent of schools,
Montpelier; Mrs. A. H. Webb of Fairlee
and P. J. Hamilton of Woodstock.
3:00 p. m. Joint meeting of the Ver
mont conference and the lay electoral
conference at Trinity church.
An Appeal to Interest Young People.
A forceful plea to the voting people to
take up Christian work was made bv
tion with pay for all officers; chief of tho
fire department, $1,100; first assistant
engineer, $.sl per year; second and third,
assistants, $40 per year; callmen, $35
yearly; overseer of the poor, $500 per
year; city engineer, $750 yearly; water
superintendent, $750; street superintend
ent, $l,2ii0. superintendent to furnish a
horse; assistant in the water superin
tendent's office, $12 monthly; health offi
cer, $(ii)0 vearlv; city physician, $400
yearly; members of the board of health,
30 cents per hour; building inspector, 3(
cents per hour; inspector of paint, 30
cents per hour; inspector of wiring, 3'1
cents per hour; city attorney, $250 year
ly. '
On the motion of Alderman Healy tha
recommendation attached t(1 each office
was considered by itself.' Alderman
Healy 's motion to accept the recommen
dation of an increase for the city physi
cian was seconded by Alderman Bruce
and Alderman Healv's motion for the re
port on the lire chief's salary was second
ed by Alderman Rosso,
Another New Wiring Inspector.
Unexpectedly came the resignation of
James F. Curtis, whose appointment as
wiring inspector was confirmed last week.
Mr. Curtis qualified for the office Satur
day. When Mayor Gordon presented tha
name of David Gilbertson. after the res
ignation of Mr, Curtis had been accepted,
the nomination was carefully scrutinized
and then the board went into executive
Rev. K. C. E. Dorion. D. IX. editor of I session, to emerge from closed chamber
the Zion Herald, Boston, in an address to ! deliberations sometime later and confirm
SOME RELIEF PROMISED
and maintain, as did Japan's, and that gocd of a dual personality,
the higher pay of American officers ac- !,, f which inielled him
the wicked-0 onB 8SHault with intent to kill,
to murder' anticipation of the inili.tments, a
For Barre Shippers of Finished Granite;
Embargo Raised.
Mcasureable relief for shippers of fin
ished granite 'and commodities from
Barre is at hand through an announce
ment received at the freight office of the
Montpelier A Wells River railroad this
morning, when information was received
to the effect that embargo on through
freight at Greenfield. Mass., and Mechan
icsville, X. Y., have lieen removed for 10
days. Possibly the embargo, if it is re
turned at all, will not be used for two or
three weeks. Freight congotion is still
a serious factor, but the prospects for
nome of the manufacturer, nevertheless,
counted for a large part of the greater .Jbn E. Peck of (irand Rapids, his weal- 1orm of W'nids.r county court
exH'ne compared with the German fleet, j tli v father-in-law, and Mrs. Feck, were;w,," called and the trial of the three
i lie .iianuc neet mouinzauon in made hy Dr. Arthur Warren Waite to "lr" "" "" ' '""'' wK"n io-n.iy , i,.l;... . n.
under former Secretary Mvcr. was char- i l),iri, t Atlnrnpv Edward Knnn ,..) - before Judge illard W. Miles. State's i ' v'
detective last night. Waite still in In-d ; Attorney it. r.. Mie ot m.Isor is a
at Hellevue hospital where he is under "'"'"l b.v -Attorney General Herbert G.
arrest charged with the murder of Peck. ' 1!"rl,'r of '!U!eboro. Raymond Trsi
uhen asked bv Mr. Swann if he wanted n"r of Uh,t R,vpr J '"'" defends the
to make any statement, passed one hand , lj,,gnlo
acterized as "a joke."
LEADVILLE, COL, AFLAME.
senator Lodge is in Washington Attend- Dynamite Was Used to Check Spread of
ing to oovernment Business. The Flames.
Washington, March 29 While the New j Leadvtlle. Col.. March Fire which
York newspapers are looking with dark i started early this mornina C"t Is-vond
lanterns for Senator Lodge of Massa- I control and five hours later dynamite was able to get rid of until mw did it all.
cbuwtts to steal in the night up the 'used to check the spread of the flames. ! Clara (Mrs. Waite) knows how 1 have
over Ins eyes ana answered vaguely :
"Oh. it's" all over. He did it. This
ilttle bad man whom f haxeu't been
FORMERLY WORKED IN BARRE.
rear gravel path to the Kooevelt rest
dene at Oyster Bay, Senator Lodge is
attending to his work in Washington
with no thought of alwndoning it rven
for a day. It can be said without reser
vation that the senator has no intention
of visiting the colonel at f'renrnt, and
tiiat all storien that be ha are invn
tie.w. The personal relations of the to
gentlemen are as friendly a eer and
J undoubtedly un UrMand th atti
tude ,f tlw other t-ard fdit(ral er.nt
T r.b;i;tie. but n" aituati'-n making ,
a cvn'rtn advisable exi-ts.
One city block
that time.
The fire di-t roved 10 buildings, with a
lo of li.'s, 'u fure being controlled.
had leen destroyed atitrii-J to get ri 1 of him. 1 don't know
who he a-he told me he came frOm
Kgv 1 1.
Koy S-hiiidh-r, a detect he. d.ilared
Waite told him he administen-d lire
harciili of various disease to Mrs. Pe k,
but they d d not art as quiekly a he
expavt'-d. He said also, the detective
averred, that he fed germs to Petk, but
Body of Frederic Greeooogh Reaches
Montpelier. -
The body of Frederi. k lirecnough. who
killed when knocked frm a pole by
a charge cf letri.-ity at Haverhill.
Ma Monday !ternin. armed in
Monti-lier tl is mrn:n. and tue funeral
ill 1 hell fr-m St. August. ne's cliurrk
t-i morrow netrtHr;.
River routings have been partially
cleared. It is understood that shipments
consigned over another railroad in Barre
have been diverted in part to the Mont
pelier Wells River line in order that
transportation of work due for early de
livery nny be expedited as much as possible.
James E. Cavanaugh Died in Montpelier
Was ni Three Days.
.lame Edward Caanu;li died at 4
o'clock this nvriiinir at In home, lvt
! Harre street. Montpelier. after thiee
data' illneM with pneumonia. He was Burlington. .March s.K herman whether in the Sunday school, Kpworth
i born in I nderhill 3fl rears mro and leae i Wade of M.lton was in city e- urt i,...iic ,.r in t course of the dstlv w
his wife, who was Hannah Mrt,eltrirk terday. charred with asult m Frsik ' eupat ion. C?nreh pienif- r of to day are
INTENT TO KILL CHARGED.
. P. Wade of Milton Placed Under
000 Bail.
Burlington. March JT. Sherman P.
the Kpworth league anniversary, given
last evening in the church, the speaker
also impressing upon his listeners the
necessity of the older members of the
church giving the younger ones an opportunity.
Dr. Dorion took as his theme, "Young
People and Their Life Work Problem."
He called attention to the wasted re
sources because of the young people be
ing ignored. It is to the youth that we
must look to carry on the work of the
Christian church; and to emphasize his
point, he held up as an example tfie busi
ness world. The business of to-day, so
far as the actual work is concerned, is
carried on by young persons. The prob
lem confronting the church is to rapture
youth, harnessing the powers for the
good of the church, looking always to
the future. The problem is even broader
than that touched by the Kpworth league
and the Sunday school, efficient as they
are.
Dr. Dorion urged recognition of the ris
ing generation, showing sympathy and
appreciation and giving them positions of
trust. He urged his audience to recog
nize their changed viewpoint as they
grow older in years, to sto) finding fault
with the voung people. We are inclined.
insisted the speaker, to want the young
to be religious be von d their vears, to
expect them to accept too quickly the
teachings of what we believe to lie nec
essary. Be careful, in our religious
teachings, not to insist on the yoirtig
accepting everything we believe to be es
sential, allow them to select that which
they desire.
The speaker said the call of the church
to those who are young is definite to all.
What if you have laid out some definite
plaji of work at the start of the career
of life? Dr. Dorion. to give an example'
of his meaning, told of his own experi
ence in entering the newspaper bu-iness. ,
of three years work culminating in Ins
being city editor of a large daily, and of
his resignation liecause be felt the call
to enlist in the ministry. It means a
sacrifice, twit what is that. aked Pir.
Dorion. compared to the joys of service!
Missionary workers, home or foreign,
make personal sacrifices hut always one
recehes the answer on inquiring if be or
the appointment bv a vote of 3 to 2.
Only five ballot were evist, as Alderman
Bruce had been excused from the meet
ing an hour previous.
More Fire Protection at Willey Street.
Ambitious plans for the improvement,
of fire protection in the Willey street
meadow, where a number of large gran
ite plants are located, were submitted by
tho city engineer. One of the proposed
extensions involves an expenditure of
$2,100, while a less pretentious plan
would cost $1,400. I he engineer pre
sented his plans in detail on a map,
which was examined at length by tho
aldermen. In closing his report on an
investigation of conditions at the n irth
end, Mr. Lee advocated more adequate
protection for the colony of plants in De
pot square. Within a short time tho
aldermanic committee of the whole plans
to go over the Willey street ground with
the engineer.
Another New Granite Plant.
Evidence th.it the lioom in stoneshed
realty is not to slump in this bad year
of freight stoppage and envious criticism
from (juincy was at hand in an applica
tion from Johnson & Gustafson for a
permit to erect a granite manufacturing
iila nt on Bovnton street. Rough specifi
cations call for u stoneshed with dimen
sions of ISO and 50 feet, with an offica
attached. The permit wa granted. Ac
tion on a request from W. A. Ijine for
permission to build a 30-foot addition to
the brick house at ti.S South Main street
did not fare so well. On the recommen
dation of Inspector Rand the request was
referred to the fire committee for inves
tigation. It is understood that Mr. Ijono
plans to convert the building into a ga
rage and machine shop. W. R. Cam
eron's request for a permit to move a
12x20 building from Washington street
to Huntington avenue was referred to
the building in-pc-for with power to act.
Many More Matters Attended To'.
Apparently the Woman's club has
proved its cuse with the city fathers, for
all hand fell risrht in with the proposal
to let the ladies have the opra house on.
the evenings of April 11 and H, with tha
cii-toinarv provision that arrangements
she who to sacrifices that the sacntn-e ! le made with the leces. I.a-t week the
is not to lie measured wjth the opportu-i council was disposed to fron at the re
nities for servi.e. quest, but Alderman Healy's motion to
IW not gain the idea, said Dr. Itorion 1 grant the permit was acted upon with
in dosing, that one mut neccrily be nn,inimity. It was hinted that some of
a minister to do Christian work. for. the nii-imderstaiidii L's that have ari-en
tl.ere is opportunity tor evervisniv to -recently when the oinan n club has ap
preach tr.e gospel of ,rl
a ad to whom he was mimed in Mont-j Grow with intent to li.I and nimdi r. ; too mn-'h incline! to "ride." to atlow
peJies. J3 years ago; a daiuhter. Mary; a He waived examination and a ! nii ..neone el-e to carry on tie work, in
oi. Jam'esj his mother, three brothers oer to county court nn ler biil of $1 .l"i ' stead of a-sistmz all it!.iii their power.
hen the results appeared to be unati- land one si-ter in l'nderhi'1. lie was jmhhh be a unable to furni-h ai:d i,t j fir. Iwion a pre,eied by s,eritary
fa toiy, gae hi fatherinla arsenic. j-ran-fe utter and work.-! for the years ' k " night. Wade e!a:in ; Amos fVM of tie Kpworth League of
- Jior leflair 4 M'-Nnlty of lUrre. 'o f- that be a !.ctet out of money but J New KnUt i. ith headquarters at Prfi--
Tke brea. h of promise ra-e, opera neral arrangements liof been ntade appeared raiher dis'inttet d in l J-
lieu- to-nighu pending the amvl of the brothers. jestenUy. (Continued on eighth paje).
m her.. J plied for the Ire" lis of fie theatre wera.
doe to fru-li'-n lte.-n committees rep-e-eutiiiL'
the organization.
t nt:l F. D. Phi V lev deeds a driveway
In t',e city it appear certain that tha
i it y will continue to refuse him a street
lvht for the LttV l '-e known as IWk
i. v ourt. T'e !:ir!.tiiiif eomrrittee's re
Iwt re-- mmen-led that the req-ic-t b
turr.el down and de report was aercpt-
( on'iajci cn fourth
