6I
OLUMXU renOi, WN
VOLU E XXI. ..AUENS SOUT'I CAOLIN, W DNESDAY. MARCHl 29, 1916.
MM[. JULIA CLAUSSJ N
NT1AUQUA STAR
Eminent Prima Donna of
the Chicago Opera Co.
LEADING FEATIJRES
OF 1916 odROGRAM
hird 3MtIsqie and 'agt'anit, Wihite Ilus
'snrs, Pa risit tnyei'rs. illrney
Girls, Sichumann quintet, Well
Hnowin Lect.urers, Wentherwax
Quartet, Said to be the Most Popu
lar Quartet in Chautauqua Work.
Announcement, has just been made
by the Redpath 'Chautauqua manage
ment that Jlnlia Claussen, eminent
contralto of the Chicago Grand Opera
Company, is to appear here on this
season's Chautauqua program. Pierre
Henrotte, concert moister, and Mar
cel Charlier, director of French operas
of the Chicago Opera Company, are
the ..assisting artists. Mime. Claussen
and her family, also the assisting
artists, will travel over the Chatunu
qua circuit in a private car.
Julia Claussen comes from flice
land long ago made famous by Jenny
Lind. Hir versatility is apparent
when one stops to think that during
the Chicago grand opera season just
closed she sang in German, Italian
and French roles. On her Chautauqua
tour she will sing a goodly portion
of her program in English. It is said
of Julia Claussen that she has never
had an adverse criticism.
A strikingly now note is seen in
this year's program in the produc
tiop of Percy Mackaye's "Sanc
taury"-a Bird Masque and Pageant
with special costumes, and with a
woodland setting .secured thru a
newly invented process for throwing
pictures directly on the air without
the aid of a screen. Ernest Harold
Maynos, the well known naturalist, is
to play the part of Shy, the natural
ist, in this masque in the evening,
and in the afteroon will give a
lecture on birds and animals.
The White lussars, thirteen in all,
scheduled for two performances with
Alfred Sweet, director, have developed
a high standard in band music and
they also appear as a vocal choir of
equal merit. They have appeared for
four years in trans-continental tours
in which they have played in nearly
all the large cities.
On tihe third night of the Chau
tauqua, a half-hour's address will he
given by an authority on the place
of the drama in community life, and
this will be followed by The Parish
Players in a ipresentatlon of a strong
and timely one-act. drama, known as
"The War Zone." "The Lady 'l'eazle"
scene from ''The School for Scandal,"
will next be presenled, then a ro
mantic play and lastly ia pleasing
one-act comedy.
The Weatherwax Brothers, a vocal
and trumpet quartet, ' 1ho appear
carly' ini the week, first a ppea red in
Iown douring tihe initil caminpa ign of
P'resident .\lcKinley, and have beenl
uon0) thle platform ever since, del ight I
lng gr'eait auldiencees in all Parts of'
the United Slates.
The Schuo~maiij Quintet, also on tihe
Chautauijua week iurogram, a classical
chainber mu csic organiza tion, with an
established pl ace in Ithe innsical
world, ia addition to their orchestral
instruments, carry with them a real
lpipe orgnm-a novelty iindeed for a
traveling organmization.
On another evening the Killarney
Girls and Rita Rich, a company of
six, attired in Irish costumes and with
appr~iopriate stage setting, will prcsent
a prIogram of iIsh mui'sic from the
simple folk lore to the classic.
Among the lecturers, Ng Peon
Chow, former consul of tihe' ChInese
government to San Francisco, editor
of the first Chinese ipaperi in America,
and long known as tihe "Chinese
?'Iark Twain," wvill lecture onm "The
New China and Heri Rtelat ions to
tile Wester'n World."
Allen 4). Albeit, ipresident of the
fnternatinai Assmociat ion of' Rotary
Clullps, chiai'man of the Civic Federa
tion of Miinnesota, priesidlent of thme
Minnesota Academy of -Social Scioe
e8, and formeri ediltor' of tile Minne
alpols Tribune, will deliver an even
ing, lecture on this groat program on
phases of social welfare and conmmun
ity problems,
Williath Rainoy Bennett will ap
pear on 'the' epening' di an in.,
HOUSEAL EXPECTS
"VE(GE'ABLE YEAR"
"Dlutch Weather Prophet" 11akles
Some Forceasts. Preclpitationl Ami.
ple.
April will be wet, therchy tracking
Irue after tradition, j ust its March has
dlone by blustering. Such at, least is
the opinion of William P. Ii 2seal of
Columbia, known somewhat more
than Locally as the "Dutch .veather
prophet".
\Ir. Ilouseal said recently:
"Seasons of abundant precpitation
will prevail throughout the spring and
sunmner. The intervals governing
these periods are from 21 to 24 lays
apart. It has usually been believed
that these changes were governed al
together by the Idnar' periods of seven
dlays or multiples of this number up
to 28. The pulsations of the suit, in
connection with the propelling power
of the planets in their varying post-.
Lions with the earth and the sun, are
no doubt the cause of the varying
p~eriods of iprecii- tion, heat ~' nd
cold.
Had for Fibre ('rops.
"On this basis the indications lead
to the forecast that the spring and
summer of 1916 will not lack for suf
dielent moisture to produce herbaceous
crops, that is, it will be a 'vegetable
ear,' similar to 1915. Field cro;ps
are included in this forecast,
"A prediction for a big cotton crop
is left out of the question; It will not
be a good year for fibre crolps. An
economic problem enters largely this
year in the production of a large cot
ton crop. hieing a careful student of
meteorological and economic en -di
tions must come to the conclusion
that they produce normally, the same
results. In a forecast last year it was
predicted that the cotton crop for
1915-16 would show a decrease of
one-fourth as compared to the pre
vious year. It was a plain case of
too much moisture for the fibrous
cotton plant, the most sensitive
plant physically that. grows On
the earth. The cotton crop -fot;the
present year, governed by practical
ly the same meteorological conditions,
will be the same size approximately
as last year.
"While precipitation will be abun
dant, it is not apprehended tiat
freshets of a serious character will
prevail Itis year.
('old Spell In April.
"The winter has not entirely gone,
although the tre's of Colutmbia are
beginning to loin their dress of re
freshing green. The temperature
around A pril 1i-17 will be a reminder
of similar (lays in March when in
somite seelions of the country the
weat her lwas Ile coldest since 1871.
F'orty-I wo years ago, April 19, record
ed tettperatur e in South 'arolina as
low as March 1u1, 191G;, and killed the
fruit and vegetables entirely. Similar
meteorological periods are ecu rrinug
at tils time, the intervals being the
same for the years as for the days
the numbiners 21 to 21.
"Th'lis Iteriod of lower tempeirature
wvill he followed att Ldaster by mtuich
warmiie r weather;I ind(eedl, the '1)u c h
w~eatIher iprop het.' miakes t he forecast
forl ideal wieathier at thati se'as~on, coin
Itiar to the ailmtost un11versail oiion
hat there in 'alw ayvs a (ol spell1 at
Easteri'. It is not t rue thtat (01(1
wea thler al ways prevails at Easter.
The reordls will pro ve t hat t.Ihe
weat her at Eastetr, 03ne year coimpar ied
to another, Is as variable as it is at
ainy other1 seaison."-The Staitf.
spir'atlonal lecture having to do witht
theo elements of success andl entitled
"The Man Who Can." Mr' .lDennett!
has had tihe experience which enables
htim to talk on this subject. Ho
started his college coui'sc with $10
and )araduiated w'jthi money in his
pocket, having paidl his way by sIng
ing.
Lir. E. T. Hagerman whlo has oc
cuit ed the six leading Ililts of is
udenoimination in six citIes, a geiius
in wVord( paintiing, and( htis thoughts
emphasized by natural wholesome wit,
has thte gIft of putting ful(ndaetttai
hiaths very sImply, ie will lie hbaied
on the ecing afternoon.
A few other' itmportant featuires onl
the prtogr'am willl 1)0 announced later.
The usual attention will lie givent to
mernting hour and the children's play
groulnd work; in fact, the story tollet's
or playground workers will remain
one day longer in each city titan they
did a ant agn.
AN OYEI SUPPLY
OF IURIAL POLI('EMEN
Tangle in Itural Police System. Seveji
I't.'jOeelntn J4ad Only 1 live dlobs 'T'his
Month.
Dlyo lmaterials may be scarce, ('hem
ieals high and many other llecessary
articles scarce on account of the
E'iu'opean wear, but. Laurens county, for
50m0 other reason, is plcntiuLlly sup
pled with rural policemen right at
this time. In fact, as the manipulators
of the cotton nMarket so often say, sh.
is "overstocked". Tihe over-supply
camne about t hrough the commissioting
of this year's new supply before the
old stock had been exhausted. The
live rural policemen recomnmended by
the legislative delegation were coil
nissioned to begin' their duties Lfore
the commissions of the old set of olli
ee's were due to expire and thereby
hangs a tale. Rural Policemen Kel
lett and Sullivan, with the three who
were re-appointed, hold pomllissions
due to expire April 7th. The two new
ly appointed policeen, Leonard
Abercrombie and Columbus Owens,
with the three-reappointed, already
spoken of, hold commissions due to
have gone into effect \arch Ist. There
fore, during the period between .\Iarch
1st and April 7th, there are seven rural
policemen with commissions. 'I The
law, however, only provides for i1ve.
Kellett, former appointees, are still at
deputy sheriff, so doubtless he will be
content with his salary for that otlice,
but Policeman Abercrombie, newly ap
pointed and 'olicemen Sullivan and
Kellett, former appointtes, are still at
work. The question arises, who will
be paid, the new ollicer or the old of
fleers? The amount at stake is about
$90 for each of the contesting officers.
The old policemen, it is understood,
take the position that they were coin
missioned to April 7th and that their
commissions were never revoked hold
ing, therefore, that they are entitled
to continue- their duties and demand
their salary. The new policemen, it is
also understood, take the position that
they were commissioned to begin their
duties on March 1st and that therefore
they are entitled to work during thia
period and, to demand payment there
for. The solution of the question will
probably revolve around the question
whether or not the governor had the
right to connniIsson the new policemen
be fore the expiration of the commis
si(e is of the old policemen).
Another question also arising is
whi ler l'olice'aman Al1cr(mnbie is en
tilled to the salary deimlanded by Po
liceman Kellett or that demanded by
Policeman Sullivan. While it is true
Chil the i,,(' < ni2n are assigned (lefl
nile tel ito: by tihe sh'rtT, they are
not c(oill iSAioIlne.t to nct in any par
Ii(''lar (i..tri: . :o .\ir. Abercromlbie
coul mrdl'.y Set up a c'laim as a sue
cessor to either Mr. Kellett or Mr.
Sullivan. So, if inl contending for his
own a ary he is ale to prove tor lht one
of these two mren i5 holding oflice ii
legally, the conclusion is evident that.
both of them re. In that case It is
reasonable to suppi)ose that the county
woul be' lle for1 .\i r. Aber'cr'ombti's
salary bitt nolt. te Halary' of either of
t he ot herI two an ince 11( r. O wens,
tendling tfor his: salarmy as a rural 1:0
liceman, be'ing contentt wvithi that of'
diety3 rib. the' :salary of at least
oneO rural ;(lh''mlan would theni gto
beggintg.
It wvout .-,ut, then), thlit there are'
hov'erail tt.il solli ion:011. One is
to sus5ta1t intir poDs1Ion and will lie
palid for t helir services. i. Aber~mcromi
1)10 woutld t hen lhe thle loser. An (tote
is thmat i'olicemanil Abcr'tombl~e woiuld
lbe able to sulstain his 1p14 osti and
then the two 01(1 policenmen wvould in
that case he tile loser.* Still another
Is that a conmpromise mlighit ho arrtived
at. in that case, well, It won't (10 to
sp~eeulate on wvhat will hlappleh then.
In alny case, it looks like som1eb)ody
Is gollng to dlispjose of thleir services at
a bar'gain, the supp~ily being greater
than thle dlemand1.
I~mater D~ereloipumts.
Since te abov'e was wvritten, Mir.
Claude OwvIngs arrived In t he city to(
assu11me the dI t les of (depulty3 shermiff' and1
Mr'. Col umnbus Owens hats llegun wvork
as rural lpolicenman.
Uthi H Townshtlip (Contest.
4The warehouse commissioner theon
w-" it I i address t05, a wvell wordedl
dissertation economies in general, and
on certain phases of life, lHe dis
eusses wealth, compe1lititlin, politic.s
and so on. The essay js about one
thousnand words in length.
('olumbus Owens Is Selected as (hief
of the 1i ural Police Force.
'Ile five new rurl polleemen Com
.missioned by (o'. Manning duI'ing the
last session of the legislatiire, met on
the enll of Sheriff Wats Satu.:'day and(
oi'gaiz lfor ti:eir work. A general
dl.(Ie :;:on of th'' uties of the olileers
look place and dI st rie ts were assigiel
for each'l of thu to operate in,
In order that the work of the pollee
men might' he n: re sy.steiatized th.e
sheriff de uitized Poli einan Owens to
act in the e:'paity of chief of the rural
police systetli. The policeinen will op
erate largely under the direction of
Mr. Owens who will keep in close touch
wit Ii the sheriff. lr. Owens will have
his alloted territory to cover, however,
just the same as the olher officers.
Calls for rural policemen should be
telephoned to the sheriff's ofllce, eith
er to the sheriff or Mr. Owens.
The districts assigned to the officers
are essentially the same as those cx
Isting lase year. Policeman Abrams
was assigned his old district composed
of Ilunter and a part of Cross 11111
township. Andy I. Lloyd retains a
part. of Cross 11111 and a part of Wa
Ierloo towniiships up to.the Ikoni road
leading to liasors bridge. Leonard
Abrecromble was assigned Policeman
Kellett's beat Including the remainder
of Waterloo township, Sullivan town
ship and a part of Dials townshIp. Vir
gil A. White received his old distr'
in Dials and Youngs townships. Chies
('olunigus Owens has Iaurens and
Seuiletown townships.
EXTOLL JUDGE McGOWAN.
liar of Colleton County Pass Resolu
tIons Commending Speeial Judge.
The Advertiser has received from
D. B. Hudson, Clerk of Court of Colle
ton county, the following resolutions
passed by the bar of that county where
Special Judge F. P. McGowan, of this
city, recently presided over the court:
"The regular Spring Term of the
Court of General Sessions and Com
mon Plea:; for Colleton County having
continued for two weeks and being
now about to conclude, it is gy tle Har
of Walterboro hereby
"Resolved; That. this lIar does here
by extend to the Special Presiding
.fudge, the Ionorable IP. P. MeI(owan,
of ILaurens, S. C,, their sincere thanks
for the able and conseieli ions man
iW r in which hi: has discharged the
arduous dilti's of hIs office during this
term and for the uniform kindness
and consideration shown to them dur
ing lie sii0:ion and that they express
to hnti their deep aptreciat ion of his
unfailing coirt(sy aind tIhe pleasure
that Ihey l:;ve had in his aeriuaint
ance.
"'Resolved Fnrthe'r; Thalt the Clerk
of this Court is reqiuested to ::end a
copy of these resolutions to the Lau
rens papers will the I'ediuest. that the
sanle he t(eein putiihed (and that
lie he fur'ther' nmiested lto spread thieuu
onl the inuites of thids ('ourt.'"
.M1de1 Te'st s aiii. anurras .1Ill.
.\l ititn A. Sulliv n1, soin 0o' Win. I).
Ka.illivan, Sr., of' Tu'mbling Shioas, and
hi s friernd. If. ( . l aaan, of Lakellanda,
lPhi., bothI senior's at the G;eorgiai
'.ehiiol o0 Thech'nology, niaul' ani (Ongine
andii holler efileiency' test at t i'he La
i'ens Cotton miU last week, thle test be
log made as a part 0of Ihetr college
coiine, Th'l y wIll use the insult of
thleir findlings as iiaterial foir a grad~u
at Ion thesis. Th'le younig imn were (emi
I loyed in thle work for abou11t a week
and hiad aibout a dloz,' mIll emloy'ees
assIstinug them. Their work was (done
In a bhorough andl accria te manner',
accori'ng to the offlelals of the millI
Smaill llaz'e in hdle flour.
Considlerable exctitement was ('reat
ed idIay afternoon In the vIcInIty of
lie I dle 1 lour' thea trie wh'len a e~all I
bla'ze was dliscoveredt itnar thle celliig
of the thleatie. Prompt act ion on the
part of the eimployees oif Ithe tthnatr'e
in using handy tIre aplparaltus kept ini
the buIlding prevented thle spread of
lie luiimes. In thliIs way the blaze was
kepit dlown un ttIl the ari'val1 of thle ftire
dlepaitiment whleh was on the scene
In a few mInutes. The damage was
inslgnflelant. and the show was Inter
rupltedi for only a shoirt tIme. 'The tire
was caused from a defective flue,
sparks dropping down the chImney
from Thn Adrteltao ofnnco
ton. 31 iC Capital Found.
Clinton, .\larch 2.--\lore or less in
terest is always iiianilest'ed toward tie
'a1n101t11 0f minutllfactur1ingt loisinecss
dlone in a eltnumunity. Intluilies are
of i mIade as to Ile vo1lme of busi
tiPss, the nuluber of peole employed
and tile ainoltl11 of wage:s paid. Such
Inuinf ial ion has just beet gat hermi
and c(ompiled for the town of (lin
ton and P resents many interesling
fIac t s. The report. ik ldea those es
llbi'shmtietsit loeted in 'linln and
liottlh Clinton. As the figure. are
furnished by the mantfacturers t hem:
selves they are bit compl t e and
accurate. 'T'hey cover the calendar
year 19I15. or the fiscal year of the
establishtuCn falling most nearly
within the calendar year. In some l
instances the plants were closed a
part of the year.
To reveal figtres that relate to any
I'articular Iirn would not be fair and
for ilat,( reason only aggregate to
tals are given. Included in tile re
ports are establishments that maniu
faeti:"e yarn, cloth, cottonseed oil and
11he by-produits of this industry, com
mercial fertilizer, marble yard, hot
IIin:g plnt. ice, engraving, electro
plating. printing and publi:hing es
Iablislit io t;, general wood works and
the Shoe shop at. the ThornWell or
h:tnagr where 500 pairs of shoes
are made each year for the orphans.
Sat isties are not. Included for estab
lishments having products for the
year valued at less than $500 nor for
those lines of industry classed as
hand trades.
The total amount of capital invest
ed in Clinton is $1,780,494. To a large
extent this is invested in lands, build
ings, machinery and tools. This total
does not. tally with the capital stock
I of the firms as part of the amouint In
vested may be surplus or borrowed. In
a ! Iistances the ljuildings 'ise I by
it ninetu.11! tring enlerprises are ' <co (d
but IPelr value is not included. The
number of salaried employes which
constitutes mainly (lie ofilce force and
includes oflicers, superintendents, man
agers and stenographers is 28. When
the figures Were compiled a few ';eeks
ago, on that day there were 913 wage
earners employed, 61.5 of which were
male and 208 female. Of the wage
earners 78 were reported as hena un
der iii years of age. The total amilo.tint
1:'d in s.a hiies and wages diring the
year was $317,16-1. Neither III,,- nlm
her of wage earners nor the .tmtil'lnt
(ahli them include:( the 30 or more
boys who work in the shop:; at the
Thornswell orphanage for whiienl th'y
rle.'r'e.e their hoard, clotlhing i i ct''
e'atini. 'ih cost of all hinter'a '.hih
inc11l udes 'uel. freigllt and ret of
poxwerut wias $71(0,1117 and rielat:es I:) iliul
actually used during the year .ii(h'l
t:ay Ibe mPo:'e or i'ss than the tlnliflnlt
ilrebased. The fIel was use both
for hunt and lfoyer. The principal
iiem of fuel wias t,99 tons of coal.
Te ell111ingvalue atI the' tduory or
workse of all products(' man t--letlr i(
during the year', which~ !nay be diff'
Thei totai primlary hort'epoweri ge:
criteud by Ithe establishmlenits lus: lhe
hor i'eower. This does not ('over Ilhe
('lectr11'iepwer dlevelopued by thle il
I--ycr Wer of' thIe eelt a li. !anentlts
them relv es, the incluttsion of' witich
wul d evidthitly restult int dlinIti.
'The '1 otn mills operate I ,!i8t lotms
andii 8t,-180 sptindles, in these ittllls
II ,38'2 bales of irawi cottIon wetre eon
sttimed. It is estimated that. Clintoni
Curnll~ihs a mnaiket for all aver'age of
X,500 bales. If left. to its own r'e
sour tces, Clintonl's Itradhe area wvould
not sulpply miote thian 75 per' cent of
thle cot ton usedl by her mills. The
total circulation of Clinton's weekly
itmblicaenti Is 6;.300.--T'he State.
Antothuer for ShterhYI.
Otne mlore eandidate has cotme out
Cotr the ollice of shierifft in thie tierson
of iI. A. Whaltoti, of (Cross 11111. Air'.
Whtarloin has bieen cotnnected wIth the
int utran; e c P(ommilissioner's Oflice for'
son 'e timl:e an 111Is we!Ill known over thle
Buyjs D~elivery 'Truck,'l
Th'ie 'l11ia1 Cash (Grioc(riy St ote is now~'.
"Cording" Its mner'chandise among Its
happy cualtomers. Last week they put
a newi Foid cair Into deliver'y service,
havIng previoutsly Outfitted it with a
South Carolina madn deitvery body,
Against Nachinatjois
MAY BRINti FRICTIO.
TO PELWILlOUS STAGLE
l'residentl l'o:inh Ouri l't Tha Wild or 31aa"
lirious Si 3ic May i orce A merica
nod texiro Ncar i to Wir, Ti'r-es
('lre and Iliolesty. Shouild Show
Clean lntiis.
Washiingtr;n, .\arch ''.--Piresident
Wilson tonight. issied warning that.
'sinister and unseruiopulous influence:s'
are spreading alarm1ist reports about
the M.lexican situation with the object
of forcing intervention by the United
States "in the interest. of certain
American owners of Mex ican irop
erties."
In a formal statement the president:
told the people to he on their guard
and not to credit such stories. lie
called atlti tion again to the gov'erl
mient's annoUtnceenict that the sole ob
i(c(t of Ile pinitive expedition was to
punish Villa and his tollowers.
The news sertvices had been aded
the iresidetit said, to assist in keep
ing this View constalntly before the
.\Mcxi(an and Am ierican iicoile. The
wt'nilg was issued llf te' ca eflt
consideration of many olicial rleirts
from throughout the 'nited :.rates
and .\iexico saying that. alarrists'
stories of the intentions of the \ 'ash
ington government were having tu. un
desirable effect upon the Mexican
people and the American residents in
Mexico.
The possibility that (ten. Carranza's
hand might be weakened to a perilous
extent should the Mexican public mis
understand the American expedition
has been a prevailing factor in the en
tire operations against Villa.
Drastic steps may be taken if the
warning is not teeded.
The president's statement. follows:
"As has already been announced, the
expeditio.n into Mexico was ordered
under a greement. with the tie fae
to government of .\exico for tle sin
gle purpose of taking the bandit Villa,
whose forces had aetually invaded the
territor'y of the t'niled States, anid is
in no Sense intended as an invasion of
that repiblic or ats an infring'timent
of its sovereignty. I have therefore
ithsed h'he several new:s services to be
g nol ugh to is.t 1 the dmini:,tira
tion in keeting thi- view of the ex
iwdiition( counns tci'l before both ith
people of Is!, coun1try' Band thet dis
tre:ssed andt i iiv people of .\exi
co, who are verly sus~ceptibh-! inde: d to
tiluprjlettons receive(d from!) the .\merii
eall prless tot only bilt als.o very" :eadly
to belie\ e that those illprei't .os pro..
techd from the views and objectIs of our
gove"rnni:1 n1 itse:f. Such conc(Ilsons,
it mui itt be sai. ar nc ot iinnlaturial be'
iaue at mail hift'I!' theiI oy otrii
jd ith ofi thilorer it thei palie pe
of lhe t oited Stat's.
'itt ordert to auoitheii ('etuLotn of
ini i t wa~y, I hativt ('ialled t u o t'
sa'.Tiral tnews ann icO'ies loS s t lhit
wato w.atithhold sitories of tro
wihi might, be givenl tht O intrprei
tilnv~erIilied ittumor1s 01 unr iest in 71 .\le
leo.
I feel t hat it is miost desiriabiile to
impress5 upionl bothI out' own pe'ople
anid the people of M\exico the fact that
lhe CXexpeit ion is sitpl 11a Unlecessar'y
tiltnitivye Imlealsure, a!mIled solel y iat tile
elIiinat ion of the miaraulders w~ho
ratidied Columtbus atnd who1 Infest an
unllprot eted (listict near i'thle b1orderC
whtichi they useC as a base Inintaking
tt Iack up1on1 thle iive and111 poper~lty
of (ourt cit izens withi 1 our 0 own terr(''1i
(Iory, it is t he ipurpose05 of 1ur1 comn
mandersC''t to) cioierte 'In e'veryv possi
ble wayU3 withi the for'ces 0f (hin. Untr
tin to bothi governmeni'tts and to r'etir'e
from1 .\1ex icanl terr'ti tory as roon~t as
ltat ob~ject is ac'otmplishted.,
oif the Ilinitedi Sttates t hat thlere are
personsli al l aotng the btordet' wh~o arel'
actively engtaged in origiinat ing aind
giving as wide currtency as they can
to rumlnor' of thle mlost senlsationlal and,
(Continued oni Paen en)
