NIGHT
EXTRA
hunting
NIGHT
RXTRA
VOL. II.-NO. 210
Afll...,. lSKi
PHILADELPHIA,
TUESDAY, MAY 10, 1910.
CortniaiiT. 101(1, bt the Poblio Vr.mtn Comtasi.
PJttlCJS CXtfE OE'Hf
MAYOR HURL!
POLICE FORCE
INTO ELECTION
"Flying (Squads" Sent to
Penrose-McNichol Wards
to Prevent Frauds
SECRET ORDERS ISSUED
Election Day Information
for Guidance of Voters
The polls opened at 7 o'clock this
rnornlng and will close at 7 o'clock
All voters who arc inside the doors
of tho polling places at 7 o'clock to
night arc entitled to cast their bal-
Tho saloons closed at midnight
'last night and will open at midnight
Voters arc entitled to three bal
lots. The first is the regular party
ballot, upon which the names of tho
candidates for the party nominations
nm?, for election as delegates appear.
Tho second is the loan ballot and the
t.t. f il- 4!.. I,11l- i.nnn li
tniru mu iiuiijiui Lisuu uuiiuij "H",11 jr
Which are inc names 01 inc cunui
dates for Justice of the State Su
preme Court. Voters should bo sure
to ask for all three ballots, especially
the loan ballot.
"Assistance to voters,1' except
when tho voter makes out an affi
davit that ho can neither read nor
write, is illegal, and should be re
ported to the proper authorities.
The Committee of Seventy, Wal
nut 2413; tho Philadelphia Repub
lican League, Spruce 1629, and tho
Citizens' Republican League, Locust
677, will be open all day to hear re
ports of violations of the election
laws.
VOTE TO COMPLETE THIS RAPID TRANSIT LINE
'sfjll- i W MBit V mi - ' - ? sf,
fei W mi H, i
Lyf y b iHTHMMWBlBsBBjKgjM
b 3f . . -hBBBBWWW pw "" WWH4MWW lulu i iui . 'JtiitBJilf T MBMrPlWHibiL i IglBilBiBrw 11B W I BlHlnW'n WArfcTOc' i'wwwi tffiMBfc,,n &77Si4?Zt9B
BBK;l8(aHBH8i5Swar tjflill Hi , I 1: ?M wi ryf WWmSrjimWW
ifclw
The entire police force has been
thrown into the election, with orders
from Mayor Smith to prevent fraud.
The Mayor announced he would as
lumc all responsibility for the activity
of police and officeholders.
An unusually heavy vote .was cast
' early in South Philadelphia,! the central
wards and in Germantown and other
residential wards. In West Philadel
phia and the mill districts, the voters,
'ipparently waiting until evening.
The Varcs claim a substantial major-
WliS for Brumbaugh and Ambler. They
p.also claim yictprlcsiijjyjpst rniiadci-
phia, the northeast and the northwest.
Both factions arc united behind Su
preme Court Justice Emory A. Walling
for renomination.
The arrest of a dozen Pcnrose
McNichol followers in the llh, 13th and
other downtown and central wards,
charged with election frauds, resulted
from the bitter factional fights between
the Vqres and Penrose and McNichol.
Mayor Smith threw the entire police de
partment fn the bitter factional flRht today.
"Flying squads" of detectives, night specials
nd policemen In plain clothes nnd police
men In uniform, were sent Into every Pen-Tose-McJlchol
ward before tho polls opened
at"? o'clock this mowing, with direct orders
from the Mayor to rfemaln at the polls all
day to' prevent election frauds.
The full power of the'police was" used In
the 4th Ward especially, where the fight
between the factions Is most hitter. lOfflce
holders whipped voters Into line, according
to the Penrose-McNichol leaders, and free
use of money was alleged. More than a
dozon arrests of Penrose-McNichol workers
were made. Trouble also cropped out In
the 13th Ward and la the 26th, which &
ta the heart of the Vnre bailiwick,
The voting was generally heavy through,
out the city until the middle of the nftei
noon, despite the rain. An especially heavy"
vote was cast in South Philadelphia, the
central wards, Oerniantown and other resi
dential districts, where more than olio-half
the registered vqte was polled before 1
o'clock. In West Philadelphia and the mill
Districts the vote wasllght, the. voters
apparently putting oft casting their ballots
Ontll this evening.
The detectives Were tailed (nto City Hall
at 6 o'clock nnd wera given their orders be
hind closed doors. JJvery division In tho
4th Ward, where there is a bitter fight
aplnst County Commissioner Robert J,
Moore, the Penrose-McNichol leader; the
Jth Ward, where James A. Carey, Penrose
McNichol lieutenant is leader: the 7th
Wfi.i1 .1 r.-,i n i. rti ..
.-.u, niicio neieci iouncuman wnaries
PJger is the Penrose-McNichol leader ; Sen
ator PenrngA'n nwn tvnrrl (h. Bth nnri tliA
f J'th Ward, where there is a bitter fight be-
--n neiect councilman John P, Flaherty
u l.i. iwuu u.. uuuy wilt maun tnu citv ot imiinduinnia to nrovide its citizms witn run iumu
transit. This photograph shows the amount of structure completed in the few wcqks that work has been in
progress on the Frankford "L" line. If the bill is defeated, these nillars of steel will be left to rust in the
damp breezes off the Delaware River until such time as the people of Philadelphia realize their mistake and
force through a loan bill that will have to be much larger than the one provided for in today's election.
The loan bills also authorize expenditures for tho improvement of the port, for a Convention Hall, for the
completion of the Parkway and the Library and for all the other much-neoded improvements.
GERMANS HOPE
FOR ARMISTICE
BY YEAR'S END
Early Truce to Consider
Peace Considered Likely
by Teutons
READY TO END
CONFLICT
BKItLIN. May 16
Germany Is willing to entertain peace
oerturosnow or to give ears to offers of
mediation of aiy iesponslble neutral
ngency. But the terms which pre laid
down must be acceptable to Germany, It
Is regarded ns likely that an armistice for
consideration 6t petite proposals will be In
effect before the year Is out, but just now
any decisive and effective movement townrd
tho pacification of Km ope Is held up by
stntement of members of Governments hos
tile to Germany, particularly that the
Allies will not lay down their arms until
Germany Is completely crushed.
This li the general tenor of all peace
talk in Germany now.
Tho Cologne Gazette has set Itself o
answer the question of the Westminster
Gazette of London as to where and when
the German Chancellor had stated that
Germany Is ready for peace, as mentioned
In tho recent German note to the United
States.
The Cologne Gazette states that Doctor
von Bethmann-Hoiiwcg, the Imperial Chan
cellor, on December 9, 1916, and on April
5 of this year. In speeches In the Reichstag,
Continued on Pane Four, Column Thru
EVANS SCHOLARSHIPS
AT DENTAL-INSTITUTE
CANCELED BY U. OF P.
Trustees Unable to Grant Free
Tuition, as They Would Have
to Pay Charges, -Provost
Says
SURPRISE FOR STUDENTS
The thirty scholarships In the Evans
Museum .Dentnl Institute, adjunct of the
University of Pennsylvania, have been
canceled.
The beneficiaries of these scholarships
only learned' of the withdrawal of tlia priv
ilege of free tuition this week when they
received from Provost Smith tho following
letter:
The trustees of the University Mu
seum Dental Institute have now charge
of all the flnunces in the Dental School
and the University of Pennsylvania
has decided that It can no longer grant
scholarships in that school, ns It would
have to pay for them.
Itegrettlng that such Is tho case, and
that the University cannot therefore
issue the renewal of your scholarship
for next year, I am
Very sincerely,
EDGAIt FAHS SMITH.
All that Doctor Smith would say about
the matter today was this, which ho dic
tated: i
Inasmuch as the trustees of tho I
Evans Museum Dental Institute now
reccK-e all tuition fees from dental
students, the Committee on Scholar
ships In the University of Pennsyl-
Contlnuril on Iuze Three, Column Two
CASEMENT'S PLAN
FOR IRISH REVOLT
UPSET BY FARMER
Peasant's discovery of Boat
on Coast Frustrated
Rebels' Schemes
GIRITESTIF1ES- IN -COURT
LON'DON', May 1G.
John McCarthy, a Kerry County farmer
with a thick Irish brogue, upset plans pre
pared months In advance at Berlin for Sir
Roger Casement to lead a rebellion that
would sweep nil Ireland.
This fact was disclosed today when the
preliminary hearing of Casement and one
of his Irish soldier confederates, Daniel
Bailey, was resumed' in Bow Street Police
Court. It was McCarthy and not the Brit
ish secret service that caused Sir Roger's
capture. ,
McCarthy's' peasant brogue was so rich
that the court and spectators had difficulty
understanding him. He told a story ri
valing fiction.
On the morning of Good Friday, Mc
Carthy sad, he was walking along the
Irish coast near Tralce when he noticed a
small boat floating toward the shore. Ho
walked down to the beach to pull It In and
noticed the fresh footprints of three per
sons In the sands.
For some reason the footprints roused
McCarthy's suspicions. He sent word to
Continued on race Four, Column Two
GENERAL MARCHAND -.
KILLED AT FRONT
Noted French Warrior and Hero
of "Fashoda Incident"
Dies
Continued on 1'itie Two, Column Three
THE WEATHER
This being election day, it Is appropriate
J? ausrgest that annual elections be held
"r the important governmental office of
.t a, i man' Dr 8t-'lcHy speaking, section
al director of the weather bureau. Only
m this democratic way can the proper
weather be obtained for the comfort and
wpplness of the general public, The jl.
rtSlor of weather Would strive to build up
good record,, knowing that he would gain
If''8 ,wUh every fair day her furnished,
aiua-giinging would follow, no doubt, but
' . j Pr'ncPle of Initiative, referendum
na recall were Introduced, all-round m
foli ment in wea,hsr conditions would
,i?n 'ne"-meantlme' le& a'l eood citizens
ww wish to discontinue waiting on the co
cer In thf) ran for a trolley car vote for
" transit loan bill.
FOIiECAST
For Philadelphia and vicinity
onowrs tonight; Wednesday partly
va Vr molrate 18t wind becoming
T
- X03U AND FOOTM
N jjy'pCE- Lot, imbuTfur neckpiece, ilon-
P t.M.Fil ."oR,"',. """ " WUWM U
pa . hi "i hi opu e. sa ai
""- LtOXl.
nirZZ h?L- frT0-0,oriJ Ffktmwae; anawera
SyXa1? RWr Hturn to -TQ3
JSJHlfM. ltr ssM ViUK RfrKl If
taiSTfwiA A" Jaw t
PARIS. May 16. General Marchand has
been killed at the front, accprding tQ
dispatches received here this afternoon.
General Jean Baptlste Marchand was one
of the most notable figures In the French
Army, not only becaus of hlB prlmlnence in
tho present war, but because of his clash
with ?.ord Kitchener In 1898, which threat,
ened to result In war between England
and France and became known as the
"Fashoda Incident."
Marchand at that thrie was In command
nt a Wrench force In Africa, which occupied
the village of Fashoda, In S,udanj.ln July,
1898. Threatened by Kitchener, fn com-'
mand of the Brltlsn forces, warcnunu sur
rendered Fashoda to the British in Novem
ber of the same year,
Marchand was born In 1863. V married
the daughter of the Countess Slldell, He
entered the army in 1883, and after gaining
a commission three years later, won fame
as an explorer, particularly In Africa.
KNOCKED DQWN BY AUTO
Nine-Year-OId Boy Said to Have Run
in Path of Car
flne-year-old Joseph McConnlle, of 2553
Jessup street, was knocked down and In.
lured last night by an automobile driven
by Dr. Robert S, J. Mltchensom of 153?
North 45th street.
Joseph ran from an alley. It is said, at
Sartaln and Huntingdon fctreets, directly
In the path of the machine. Doctor Mitch,
ensoa treated him at his ofttce,, as the lad's
parents refused to allow blm to t) taken to.
a hospital. Doctor Mltchenson was ar
rested and will have a hearing tomorrow
In tho Park and .ehigh aVenues police
station. fter the boy's Injuries have been
determined.
Freight Clerks May Strike
NEW YORK, May 16 -Two thousand
and two hundred freight clerk on the New
York, New Haven and Hartford Rajlroad
have ben ordered to strike some time after
g o'docfc tomorrow night. If, in the mean!
tune, fital o? th ro4 refuse t grant:
ii.o,,, titahKr waist ari'i aijt.-ilti rabcetM
coaMraTnr WJ "JUMTttw ff P ftt
vMy mw mmt pimgr.
METHODISTS ADOPT
CHURCH UNION PLAN;
REPORT ON IT IN 1920
Consolidation of North .and
South; Would Bring 'tlje Total
Membership tfp o
7,500,000 .
JOY-. AT CONFERENCE
MEXICAN BANDITS BURN
150 IN WRECKED TRAIN
Entire Guard Annihilated and
Car Made Funeral Pyre
Near Capital
8AB.ATOGA SPRINGS, .. Y.,-May'l.
The eyes of 'the Methodist world are fo.
cused on this city today, for out of the
deliberations of the General Conference p
today's session may grow a union of all
the SMethodlst churches In the world, bring
ing the toal membership up to 7,500,000.
A plan was submlttedyby the Commission
on Federation, which provides for a con
solidation of the Methodist Episcopal
Church and the Church South on a mutual
basis. In regard to the unification, the
commission makes the following recom
mendations: First. That the General Conference bq
made the supreme legislative, executive and
Judicial body of the united Church, under
constitutional provision's and restrictions.
Second. That the number of quadrem
nlal conferences be so Increased as to pro
Vide more adequately for the needs of the
organized church at home and abroad. "
' Tljlrd. That the general conference con
sist of a single house, made up of dele
gates elected by, the quadrennial or annual
conference or both,
UNIFICATION OF ALU BODIES,
In prder that the uplon will be complete
the commission goes pn record by favoring
the unification of aH pther Methodist' bod
ies which accept the proposed plan, after
It has been accepted and perfected by both
the Church Noith and" the Church South.
The negrq question was touched on by
the commission as follows:
"That conforming to the suggestions ot
the Joint commission representing the
Northern and Southern Churches, the col
ored member of the reorganized Church be
constituted Into one qr more quadrennial
or Judicial conferences."
In concluding it report the Federal com
mlsjtoq said that it expects to be In a po
sition ts report to the General Conference
of $tt th full details of the plan of Hot
flctiop which mny t se4 Jpon by tn
rMttaM ml fmm Fw
LAItfiDO, Tex., May 16. Mexican ban
dlta burned to. death 150 passengers In one
car and annihilated the train guard In
wrecking a passenger train carrying pearly
1000 persons, at Ayuzco, near Mexico City,
according to reports here today. The sur
vivors are reported to have reached Mexico
City.
BADEN-POWELL DENIES BEINtt
II3LD IN TOWER AS A SPY
Cheerfully Remarks He "Was Taken
Out nnd Shot Over a Month Ago"
LONDON, May 18. -Lieutenant General
Sir Robert Bade.i-Powell, founder of the
Boy Scouts, wrote the United Press from
the Boy Scout Association today denying
rumors In circulation In the United States
that he was a prisoner In the Tower ot
London, charged with being a spy,
, "I regret that the report that I am so
journing In the Tower of London on the
charge of espionage cannot be correct," he
wrote, "as I was taken out and shot over
a month ago according to a Chicago news
Fbper. I am not clear which country I
was spying for, but at the moment. I am
fairly busy en work for Great Britain."
QUICK NEWS
GUATEMALIA PRESIDENT REPORTED ABOUT TO ABDICATE
v
OALVESTON, Tcx May 10. Private ndvlccs received here to-
day state that Estrada Cabrera, President or QUataninHa, is jircpar-
ing to lco from the country In face of tho lapid progress of the rev-
olutton against hlin, A vessel Is Bnld to be waiting nt a convenient
poit to carry him away.
SIX BURNED TO DEATH WHEN LIGHTNING FIRES CAR
WARREN, O., May 16. Lightning utruck a box car, converted
into living quarters for laboicra on the, Eric ijllioad today. Six
occupants 'of the car were burned to death. ,
BANKRUPTCY PLEA AGAINST COMPANY
NEW VOHK, May 18. A petition In Involuntary bankruptcy against tho Amer
ican Heal Estate Company vvna filed In Fedeiul Court here today by creditors. The
petitioners ullege that the company has $18,000,000 worth of real estate encumbered
with mortsages of a fnce value of '$10,000,000 and also has $11,000,000 in unsecured
llnbllltlcs.
COMMERCE BOARD CONDEMNS "TIME INTERVAL" SYSTEM
WASHINGTON, May 10. The Interstate Commerce Commission today ofllcially
placed Its stamp of disapproval on the "time Interval" system used in placo of the
nlock signal system on the Northern Puclllc Railroad. The commission held that tho
"time Interval" system was tho causa of the wreck February 20 this ear nt South
Cheney, Wash., In which f persons were killed nnd 22 lnjuicd. The commission
Htnted that tho road should substitute the block signal system or some other better
method than the "time Interval" system. "
SWISS PROTEST TO ALLIES ON MAIL SEIZURES
BERLIN, May 16. Tho Oversens News Agency quotes tho newspaper Nach
richten, of Uasle, as saying that tho Swiss Government la protesting to France
against damage to SwIsh trade caused by tho seizure of mails by the Allies.
TRUCE PLAN FOR CARE OF WOUNDED REJECTED
GENEVA, May IS. Tho Bulletin of the International Red Cross, which has Just
appeared, gives the answers of the various Governments to the proposal of Gustnve
Ador, executive head of tho Red Cross, requesting several hours' armistice after
every engagement to permit the removal of the wounded and the identification of the
dead. Tho Russian Chief of Staff Alcxieff replied that he had renewed his orders to
he chiefs of the Russian armies to negotiate with the enemy after each battle for
a suspension as proposed. The French, British and Belgian Governments replied,
appiovlnir the principle, but saying that its. opera'tion was not practicable. The
German reply Eafd: "The Imperial Government Is unable to consider tho proposed
measure unless tho Initiative Is taken by the enemy Powers."
MIDVALE STEEL ADDS $620,000 IN BUILDINGS
Contracts for $620,000 worth or new buildings "for" the Jlidvale Steel Company
have been awarded. Machine sl.op No. 7 will be built at 'the Nieetown works by
Berkley, White & Co., nt a coyt of $320,000 and a new madhlne shop, blacksmith shop
and yard runway at Coatesvllle by Irwin & Lelghton, at n cost of $300,060.
AUSTRALIA ,TO AID SHACKLETON SEARCH
MELBOURNE, May 16. Australia will assist In organizing an expedition for
the relief of Sir Ernest Shnckleton, the British Antarctic explorer, by supplying ofll
rers and 26 men, who will be piovisloned for 18 months. This announcement was
mnde yesterday by Georgo Foster Pearce, Minister for Defense, In reply to a cabled
Inquiry from the British Government.
DR. HELFFERICH MENTIONED AS NEW FOOD CHIEF
BERLIN, May 16. Dr. Karl Helfferlch. Minister of Finance, is tho most likely
candidate for the post of Minister of the Interior and VIcoCh.ancellor, made vacant
'jy the resignation of Dr. Clemens Dolbrueck. Doctor Helffeilch Is a man of thorough
business training and was one uf the strongest forces in the recent crisis In German
American relations In favor of reaching an understanding with the United States.
Ills statements in the April debate of the Reichstag Ways and Means Committee
on the submarine issue contributed mnterlally to tho settlement.
BALTIMORE SOCIETY WOMAN
FIRES BULLET INTO HER HEAD
Miss Mary B. Mordecai in Critical Con
dition Cause Not Known
BALTUIOllK, May 16. Miss Mary B.
Mordecai, widely known society woman of
the Green, Spring Valley of Maryland, flre4
a bullet Into her head In her home In the
Walbort Apartments today She ta In 4
critical tNjndttlon at th Mercy Hospital Ko
cause for tbe shooting Is known.
Ml Morieca!, who la 4 yearn old. 1 a,
.atoUr ft .Ljju! Merdceftl. ( aermmeoto,
Cfc A J, JtemlolfJi Mwiaealj at Ff I.
$3,000,000 LOAN FOR CHINA TO REPAIR CANAL
PEKIN, China, May 16 Tne International Banking Corporation has signed
a contract with the Chinese Government for tho improvement of the grand canal
for a distance of 200 miles between the Yangtse-KIang nnd the northern boundary
of Klang-Su province. The corporation loans the Government $3,000,000 for the
purpose, the amount to be secured by canal tolls.
RUSSIAN RED CROSS BREAKS WITH GERMAN
STOCKHOLM, May 16. According- to tho Dagens Nyheter, the Red Cross con
ference resulted In a complete rupture between the German nnd Russian Red Cross,
ovvlntr to the refusal of Germany to express regret for the sinking of the -Russian
hospital ship Portugal, torpedoed by a Turkish submarine. Representatives of the
Russian Red Cross had sent a telegram to Prince Charles of Sweden, announcing
the provisional cancelation of the mandates of the Russian delegates to the approach
ing meeting of the International Red Cross at Stockholm, and nsklng the Prince to
act ns Intermediary In ascertaining the views of Germany and Austria regarding the
Portugal incident.
ARDMORE CHILD DRINKS GLASS OF WHISKY; DEAD
A glass of whisky drunk by 3-year-old Henrietta Rudl, of 76 Holland avenue,
Ardmore, killed the child. She found the liquor In a glass on a table at her home.
It had been used for medicine, according to her mother.
DR'. ANNA HOWARD SHAW LOSES $25,000. SUIT -
Dr. Anna Howard Shaw, former president of the National Women's Suffrage
Association, lost her $25,000 damage suit against the Lehigh Valley llallroad, the
Central Railroad of New Jersey nnij the Pullman Company when a. Supreme Court
Judge of New York ruled that the defendants were not responsible for an ice
covered station platform, on which the broke her ankle two years ago. The case
was decided yesterday,
BELGIAN TROOPS CONTINUE ADVANCE IN AFRICA
PARIS, May 16. Further successes for the Belgian expedition which has in
vaded German East Africa wore announced in thp oltlclal statement issued yesterday
by the Belgian War Department at Havre. The statement said that Colonel Molltor,
Jn command ot the southern column, occupied Kigali, capital of the German Province
of Ruanda, oh May 8. The Belgian troops also have captured the island of Klvlulvi,
in Lake Klvu, which the Germans took by surprise at the beginning' of the war,
BOY'S HAND CUT OFF IN SAUSAGE GRINDER
Fqur-year-old Hyman Schak, of 1031 South Btreet, Is in the Pennsylvania Hos
pltal today with hla hand cut oft nt the wrist, the result of bllpping- and getting his
arm caught in an electric sausage machine. The boy was watching his father grind
sausage last nlsht when the accident happened.
, T
PRESIDENT DELIVERS "CONFIDENTIAL ADDRESS"
WASHINQTON, May 16. President Wilson spoke Intimately for hajf art hour
last night to the members of the National Press Cluh here. He remained .at the
club throughout the evening, staying for a supper after his address, The (Speech
was confidential, but may be published later.
.-.i-i.p ,.i ...., ,i i. M i i ii L t
MOTORIST OUTRUNS HIS MAIL BY ONE DAY
E. 0". Baker, who beat iU own mall across the continent In establishing a motor
record for the trip from the Pacific Ocean to New York, today received the" Usst card
he mailed to himself as a joku during the trip. Baker compJetBd, the last lap tt his
Journey yesterday, covering tp. Ustan,d between mm city ana New Yo la
hours ami po minute Baker drearer ttw tin mUm I root lm Anelea la, I iSay
U taure ad is mlttuti. topping four. dys u th prvtaws,8Qr4,
HEAVY TRANSIT
VOTE; MWCH0L
MEN KNiFE IT
Both Bills Will Win by Big I
Majorities, Says Con
gressman Vare
" -
VICTORY DOWNTOWN
Northeast Also Casting Jrlcavy
Favorable Ballot Opposition
in West Philadelphia
Demand the Loan Ballot
When You Go to the Polls
VOTERS:
Ask for the loan ballot when you
go to the polls today.
A last-minute effort la being made
to defeat both the transit loan bill
and the loan bill for general Im
provements. ,
Acting under instructions from
"higher up," the Penrose-McNichol
election officers will not give you, a
loan ballot unless you ask for It.
Early indications arc thnt tho
loans will carry by huge majorities.
.Voting this m'orning and early this
afternoon indicates passage of both
transit and general improvement I:t
bills by large majorities.
Some opposition is being directed
against the $47,225,000 general im
provement bill.
Victory for loans is predicted by
former Transit Director A. McrriU
Taylor, Mayor Smith and Congressman
Vare. VJ
Mr. Taylor issues last-minute call for
loyal voters to present a solid front at
polls.
Voters warned to ask for special loan
ballots when they enter the polling
booth.
Senator McNichol said at noon: "The
reports I am receiving are that the
people ore voting heavily against the
loans both of them especially in West
Philadelphia."
Congressman Vare afl the same tite-d3
declared that "reports from worftes, in,
every ward proved that bbih Joamj"i
would be victorious." l
A sweeping victory for both the JS7.100.
000 transit nnd port loon bill and the Jt7,
225,000 general loan bill was declared as
sured by Congressman Vare this afternoon.
jic saio no oaseci ins prediction UfNQVgfc,
wneiniing Buccess ior notn mils upon report
received from workers In every ward In th
city. South Philadelphia Is piling up a
solid majority for the bills nnd tho North
west Is following a cl6se second, he added.
Senator McNichol at tho same time -made
public predictions exactly counter to those
of Congressman Vare.
"The reports I am receiving," he said,
"are that the people are voting heav(ly
ngainst the loans both of them especial
ly In West Philadelphia."
This statement from the Senator was tak
en as the first proof that orders tp knife
both loans have been passed out' to tho
Penrose-McNichol ward and division work
ers. A canvass of the strongest onnosition
wards, however, gave proof that, in spite
of the orders, the large body of the voters
are swinging in for the loans. Tho vote
for the transit loan is running ahead of the
vote for the general Improvement loan.
The opposition following, the Penrose-Ma-Xlchol
orders to oppose the loans Is by no
means city-wide, and Is confined to a few
scattered sections, particularly In parts of
West Philadelphia and In the central
wards. The vote In the 20th. David H,
Lane's ward, up to noon. Indicated that
both loans would be defeated.
SOUTH PHILADELPHIA SOLID,
In South Philadelphia, below South street,
except in the 4th Ward, the vote for the
both loan bills Is virtually unanlmqus.
In the 46th and25th, northeast wards aorn
opposition Is being noticed to the general
Improvement loan bill.
In the 22d Ward, Germantown, the loans
are receiving the solid support of all voters,,
and In the 23d Ward, In spite of the fac
tional fight, both sides are for the loans.
In the 4Bth and 2Bth northeast wards there
Is a little opposition from the Penrose-Mo-Nlchol
followers, although In this particu
lar section no orders have gone out there
against the bills. The 48th Ward is voting
solidly for both bills.
The only wards where the obstructionists
seem to have gained any following are the
7th. Select; Councilman Seger'a ward; tha
11th, City Solicitor Connelly's wardt In
10th, Mc.Nlcliol'a'home ward; the 3d, 'Harry'''
J, Trainer's ward; the Bth, James Carey's
ward; the 20th, David H. Lane'a ward,
and the Sth, the home ward of Penrose,
Throughout the northwest, particularly
In the 21st, 37th and 38th Wards, the vote
for the loans was almost unanimous. The
much-heralded move to knife the loans rt
the lower part of the northwest, where
Charles I Pluck, president of tha North.
west Business Men's Association, has been
campaigning against both bills, apparently
has fallen fiat, In tfe 2Sth, 29th, 32d and
47th Wards a large vote, Is tielng polled,
for both.
BACK LOANS IN" NdlVTHKAtet -
In the 19th and 3st Wards, lower part
of the Northeast, the word ha been passed
out to the Penrose-McNichol workers to
support both loan bills on account of tha
Frankford elevated. In, the- iSth Division
of the 19th Ward, It was said at 11 a'cloeH
that S3 votes had been cast for the loan
bills and not slnglp vote against them. ,Ju
other divisions throughout the Northeast (hi
vote was nearly as unanimous.
Jn me dlviss ons of the 21th Ward. W
Philadelphia, the voters showed uttioluje
Indifference toward the loan ballots, many
of the voters leaving the ballots !n tha
booths and not going to the trouble ta cit.
them Ther was, however, pa waiki
opposition even tq the genera) bnpnn'NtMiti
loan bill.
Overwhelming success for the fxjtjtt
bill Is predicted by formes Transit Plcte
tor A. Merrltt Taylor who hjta Wjm ggt
against the coterie of political otiatrtintlti,,.
Ists, Mayor Smith- tpsettter With Hwjatoj 3
and Congressman Vare, b pronhesj-tiur mJ
n aj.sin eta nr rvn n iiiiife hii H,thstnBiiu . i -t-
Jorltles.
The Mwor motored in twm hi Uiet
isen! n4 mi i i(s tw Hm fawi
at t.ii Mipap: WM- km iw im 4
uf l M wrj, ataM-Mai lupr 9 a j
