? '\-.Sk
Fox's Comics
In The Times-Dispatch, Amuse
Young and Old Every Day
06th YEAR
"Mr. fags"
The Irrepressible Jiggs. Has His
Troubles This Morning
volume e?
n c.Mil Kit |;i?
RICHMOND, VA., TUESDAY, MAY 16, 1916.?TWELVE PAGES ",:,t ?RAIN.
PRICE, TWO CENTS.
- 22-FOOT CHANNEL
Report of Army Engineers Rec
ommends Abandonment of
James River Plan.
SUM OF $450,000 IS ASKED
Appropriation to Be Spent Partly
in Construction of 400-Foot
Turning Basin in Harbor.
Abandonment of tho piftn for (i
tu onty-two-foot channel for .lames
River is recommended in a special re
port submitted to Congress yesterday
afternoon by United States Army en
gineers. The rep opt arks an appropri
ation or t4h0.000 in two annual In
stallments. the money to be expended
> '' n 400-foot turning basin in the
"?ehmond Harbor and in work to
w_'den the present elghteen-foot-deep
?Hannel to a width of 41*0 fet< from
f'"1 1? CMlv roin*. to a width of
-?'? feet from Citv r0int to Richmond.
? rT,ort is a ftreat disappoint*
?*orge \v. Rogers, chair
man of the Conncil Committee on l,?.
? l'rovein?r.t of tho Janus Hive,. ia*t
1 'l VV'" ',e n '"appointment
? only to the people of Richmond,
to Senators Martin and Rwnnmn
' onsressman Montague, who have
be?-n assured that the work would be
?ompleted as originally outlined
riie two Senators and Congressman
-i-ntajcue were in Richmond last fall
?n,d made an inspection trip with th?
' Minoil Committee o? Improvement of
I Me James r:.ver. the Chamber ,.f Com
'?>*rcr committee on rlx.r and harbor.
U?utenant.Coloncl P. Jervey. the
I'lVTS charKC At 'he conference
which followed that inspection it was
generally agreed that at the rate the
, vck ^vaR propreesint' it would lake
J eiirf to Hive Richmond de<?;>
?:'ter facilities an.l that th? annual
appropriation was so small it nearly
?i.i was UFi'il foi maintenance charges
a-.d overhead le.iv|,,? iirrto
for actual permanent work. Senator
.Martin informed us that he was ??.
""'nn !t WO,,M 1,01 litko <h?n
..1.O00.O00 to complete the undertaking
a.t l tobj ,IP h? w?1!l(1 Ufivocaie. an ap
propriation of from {.'tOa.OO'i to
y,*ar to ?u? the work within
a period of rive years
I recently have had assurances that
Senator Martin was work in* to have
the appropriation made not ley* <han
Si.AO.imo this year. The report of the
engineers, therefore. is a great dis
appointment. ..nd I trust that It will not
*e accepted by our representatives in
Congress. but that an effort will be
made to induce th.> government to give
Richmond the water facilities to which
"he is entitled. I know that the rn
gineers in rharce of work in this sec
tion are nor in favor of abandoning
the project, but have prepared addi
tional plans for straightening the
channel."
Mr. Hogers explained that th- turn
ing basin in the Richmond Harbor was
only about one-third completed. When
finished it is to be 400 by ?;<?<"? fC(.t with
a uniform depth of twenty-two' feet,
thus providing ample space for turn
ing any vessel able t-, come iij> the
t:ver.
TltlKO TO liKT (?OX(iItKSS
?ro phoviui: thk n \ns
The Richmond Chamber of Commerce
and the City Council for years have
'< been endeavoring to Induce Concress
to provide, funds to complete the work
already promised for James River. Tho
city itself has expended large sums in
the purchase of the dock and lock
>-ates and in the construction of
wharves on the lower river, and com
tislttees at frequent Intervals have
visited Washington In efforts to Induce
more speedy prosecution of the rlver
irnprovement project.
John C. Freeman, chairman of the
Chamber of Commerce committee on
river and harbor, was informed last,
night of the recommendations of the
army engineers. He declined to make!
any comment or to indicate the atti-'
tude his committee will take as to the!
report and recommendations.
Chief of Engineers Black, in a re-'
port sent to Congress yesterday, sums!
up the recommendations of the army I
engineer as follows.
"The plan for the improvement of.
the James River, under act of Con err ess i
of July 5, 1SS4, provides for securing
a channel from its mouth to Richmond,
twenty-two feet deep at mean low tide
400 feet wide from the mouth to City
Point, seventy-one miles; thence 303
feet wide to Drewry's Bluff, twenty
live miles; thence 200 feet wide to Rici,.
niond. seven miles?a total of 103 miles
??Subsequently, by the act of June 13,
lf'02. the channel was extended 3 300
feet upstream- to the end of naviga
tion at the docks, where a turning
basin was authorized by the act of
March 3, 1005. The total estimated
cost of the improvement was $fi 374 043 1
To June 3. 1915. (here has been 'ex-''
pended on original work on tho project
$2,335,801. so that $3,039,142 would be
required to complete iho project, ac
cording to the original estimate
.u'T'Vu* cU*u:ict ofJl^ now estimates
P can he completed for
S2.oSS.r.9fi. and that the cost of main
tenance would be $fi3,800 p*r vear
The expenditures made have resulted
in a channel not less than twenty feet i
deep at mean low water from the mouth >
to City Point, except at Rock L,and- i
lug Shoal, where there is a depth ofi
eighteen feet, and in a channel not
loss than ftlghteen feet deep from Cltv
Point to the wharves at Richmond"
where there is a partially constructed
turning basin.
"The full projoct widths have not
heen secured, but tho district officers
believe, that the existing widths be
tween Richmond and City Point aro
sufficient for the present and immedi
ately prospective commerce, except in
the half-mile reach at Richmond, where
the full project widths of 200 feet In
the channel and 100 feet In the turning
basin are required.
"In conclusion, the district en pincers
(ConUnued on doconcO:'*sor) 1
Preliminary Trial Begins
NEW SIFTER II) HISTORY
OF SINN FEIN OUTBREAK
Sir Kof?er Casement in Court for Pre
Iiminary Examination on Charge
of High Treason.
IRISH PRIVATE AI/SO ACCUSED
Prosecution Directs Warm Attack at
Note<! Prisoner in Endeavor to En
mesh Him in \\ idesprend Con
spiracy to Make Ireland Free.
I .OX DON", May 1.1.?The writing of a
new chapter of the- history of the Sinn
Fein rebellion was begun to-day wh?n
Sir linger Casement, knighted in U<11
f t services to the- British Kovcrnment.
an.l I>anlei Juli.tr Bailey, an Irish pri
vate soldier. one of his companions* on
the ill-fated sui.mr.rin.-> trip from Ger
many to Ireland. wetp placed in the
docket of tiip How Street police Court
for preliminary examination or: the
chart;* "f high treason
MiMle considerable testimony intro
duced by Uie crown was intended to
incriminate Bailey, the main attack of
the prosecution was directed against
t'aserr.cnt, in an endeavor to enmesh
him in a net of evidence which would
prove without question the lca.ling part
it Is claimed he played in the r0n
spiracy, the ramifications of which ex
tended to America.
Casement himself was the center of
all eyes during the day It was evident
that no ordinary Irirh prisoner was
before the |,.-?r. despite the unkempt
future with neatly trimmed heard and
hair brushed well hack from a high
forehead, underneath which were the
deep-fct c\es of the dreamer.
ivti:m)s to havk iivmi
IV ms OWX DEFENSE
basement busied himself taking notes,
indicating that be intended to have a
hand in the presentation of his defense.
Me was always ?elf-pos3C8sed, and. as
the case wore on, began to display con
siderable self-assurance. ?
The testimony to-day developed few
thrills, the prosecution devoting Its
attention to showing how Casement
carried on the alleged recruiting for
his Irish brigade in (ierr.ian prison
camps. The most dramatic part of the
whole proceeding was the address of
the Attorney-General. Sir Frederick E.
Smith, who outlined Sir Hnpcr Case
ment's former services to his country,
told of the honor bestowed upon the
prisoner by his King and then shifted
abruptly to the details of the con
spiracy hatched in Germany, it was
during his addriss that the Attorney
Oeneral introduced a letter written by
Casement thanking Sir Edward Grey,
the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, for
the knighthood conferred upon him In
recognition of his Putumnyo services.
In this letter Casement said:
"I am indeed grateful to you f,,r
this singular evidence of your personal
interest. I am very deeply sensible of
the honor done me by llis Majesty, and i
would beg that my bumble dutv mayi
be presented to His Majesty when you'
can do me the honor of conveying to1
him my deep appreciation of the honor!
that he has been so graciously pleased'
to confer upon me."
pitonrcES rr.Ar; which
IS KMni.UM OK IlEVOI.T
The Attorney-General introduced an-1
other striking feature when he paused!
in his speech to produce in court the
(lag which, it is asserted. Casement and |
his companions brought from Germany]
to Ireland. This was the emblem of
revolt?a green flag with a yellow |
castle upon it and in the castle the'
motto, "Urhs Antiqua Fult Studilsrpio'
Asperima Belli."
Casement's attorneys made little at-'
lempt at cross-examination to-day, but i
several times questioned the witnesses\
as to why Casement wished them to!
Join the Irish brigade. The point of'
the questions seemed to show that the
freedom of Ireland was the. only thing
Involved, and that the brigade was not
to attempt to assist Germany,
Further testimony will be introduced
by the crown to-morrow.
NEGRO DIES IN CHAIR
Convictcd Murderer. Protecting lnito- i
eence to l.tmt. Electrocuted
nf Columbia.
COLUMBIA, S. C.. May 15.?Joe j
Grant, alias Frederick Brown, a negro. I
convicted of the murder of Jesse L. j
I>urst at Johnston. S. C., on April H.I
I90tl, was electrocuted here to-day. He '
protested his innocence lo the last.
After being located in Philadelphia
throe years ago, and lighting extradi
tion through the T'nlted States Supreme
Court on the ground that he would be
lynched. Grant was returned to South
Carolina.
Veterans Not in Favor
of Birmingham Reunion j
Being Last of Its Kind
Bidding for Next Year's
Gathering Already has
Become Spirited.
I Thousands Arrive.
BIRMINGHAM. ALA.. May 15.?Senti
ment among th?? thousands of Con
federate Veterans who arrived here tn
"ay for their twenty-sixth annual re
union, which opens to-morrow. M-med
distinct1,- oppoM-d to the suggestion
, h..t this might ho the last Ratherlng of
| Us kind, and bidding for the reunion
| next >car has already become spirited.
"Welcome meetings" were held to-dav
j by the United Sons of Confederate Vet
erans and the Confederate Sons1 Mo
morial Association, nearly forty special
(trains having arrived with visitors
[Within the last twenty-four hours.
Most of the twenty bands which
reached here in the course of the dav
were immediately pressed into .service
to assert the claims of the various cities
seeking the next reunion. Memphis
Jcnn., and Tulsa. Okla., are the leading
rivals, and it is believed that Washing
ton, D. C.. win be a contender later.
General Bennett H. X??ng. of Louis
ville, ky? commander-in-chief of the
"Veterans, who. with his staff, arrived
early in th* day. declared he is not
an active candidate for re-election
General George P. Harrison, com
mnnder-in-chief of the Alabama del*
Kation of the Army of the South, is
the most outspoken as the successor
of General Voting.
Because of the heat wave which has
s ruck the city. Palm Beach suits will
'.isplace the formal evening clothes for
the reunion balls on Wednesday and
Thursday nights.
VISITORS AIIK ? Kl.( ())it;i)
at Ai-'Tuit\no\ .mi:i-;ti\<;
Governor Henderson, of Alabama;!
xl!ty?,r ,I"*' ?f th'8 olty- at"1 M-->Jor
B'han. pre.vklent-tfeneral of the:
(.or,federate Southern Memorial Asso-!
elation. welcomed the visitors at an
afternoon meeting to-day. Greetings |
a.-.> were given by General Vouiik. W
jN Brandon, of Arkansas, commander-I
in-chief of t!ie .Sons of Veterans, and!
Mrs. Frank G Odenheim. president-1
, penr-r.nl of the United Daughters of the I
I Confederacy.
I Birmingham was prepared to-day to I
I care for the largest number of visitors
; in Its history. Every effort has been I
, made to provide for the comfort of
the Old soldiers ]n addition to the
thousands of tents spread out over the !
bie fair grounds, hundreds of private,
homer- have been thrown open to them
| Ni'T.tous social functions will b? :
i Piven in honor of the veterans and vist- i
to.s. jh.? concluding feature of the1
thro... days' encampment will be a big!
ball. **
I A movement is on lo name Mont'
gomery. "the cradle of the Confed- !
i ' 'a' v' ns ?he city in which the last
I of tl,e reunions shall be held, whether '
(next year or later. Citizens of that'
city arc behind the movement, which
lis an outgrowth of the suggestion that
t >e present reunion may be the in?t
t<> be held.
FIRST SIvSSIOX OF HF.tMO.V
,V" '' UK HKLI) THIS MOIINIXC;
The sessions of the reunion will be !
held in the Bijou Theater, commencing !
a 1" o'clock on Tuesday mornitj
Richard W. Massey, chairman of the '
local entertainment committee, will call !
the gathering to order, and Rev. J. \v :
Bachman. chaplain-general of the vet '
erans. will deliver the invocation, j
? eneral John Smith, commander of '
the Fourth Alabama Brigade, repre-i
sentlng the Birmingham veterans, will j
deliver the opening address President I
George B. Ward, city commissioner. !
will respond for the city; K. W. Bush !
president, for the Birmingham Cham
ber of Commerce; J. Asa Rountree. in ,
? f of th0 S?ns of Confederate Vet
erans; Mrs. Chuppell Cory, in behalf I
of the l nited daughters of the Con- I
ederiu-y; 'liarles Henderson. Governor. '
in behalf of the State of Alabama, and
General George P. Harrison. com
mander of ,|,e Army of Tennessee,
in behalf of Confederate veterans.
jvobert A. Brown, chairmajt of the
general local committee, will be tntro- '
(luced. and ho in turn will turn the '
convention over to General Bennett H !
loung, commander-in-chief of the-'
I'nited Confederate Veterans, who will I
deliver the response to the addresses :
of welcome. Committees will then be
appointed. Patriotic music will be
rendered during the opening session. j
In the afternoon the feature will bo ?
an address by John T. Goolrhk. of
Fredericksburg. Va.. on "Confederate!
Soldier, and a play by R. c. Rogers. |
A reunion and handshaking will be
held In the principal park of the city.!
? urin? which the Southern airs will bo !
played by the bands, and a score of '
consolidated bands will piny together. !
ihvix s. conn him.
IMCI.IVKit A\\i:AL OHATIO.V j
III the evening iho annual oration
will be delivered by irvin S. Cobb.
author and newspaper man, and the
ofhclal sponsors and maids will he
presented.
I he banquet in honor of the presi
dent-general of the United Daughters
of the Confederacy will be held at the
Southern Club, and the ball of the
United Sons of Confederate Veterans
will be given in the. Hippodrome. 1
Memorial exercises will be held on
Wednesday morning, after reports from
committees have been received. All
sessions must be suspended for the
memorial. ,i
The official parade of the maids and
sponsors will bo held on Wednesday
afternoon, and the veterans will con
tinue their business, electing officers
for the ensuing year, selecting the next
meeting place, and receive a report
on the Jefferson Davis Home Associa
tion.
Memphis, Term., Washington, D. C., j
nnd Tulsa, Okla., arc already bidding
for the next reunion, and fighting the
proposition of abandoning: the annual
reunions
The otticial grand bail for the vet
erans will he held on Wednesday night,
and the big parade of the veterans, sons
of veterans, military and fraternal
bodies will lie held on Thursday
morning.
A Bham battle between Alabama Na
tional Guard and the First Texas Bat
talion. 1'nlted Confederate Veterans,
will be held in the afternoon.
The twenty-first annual reunion of
the Sons of Confederate Veterans will
convene this evening, and will be in
session three days.
The twenty-eighth annual encamp
ment of the Department of Alabama,
Crand Army of the Republic, will bo
hold in Birmingham on Wednesday, as
well as the annual encampment of the
Department of Alabama and Tennessee,
Sons of Federal Veterans Fraternal
greetings between Confederate and
Federal Sons will be exchanged dur
ing the day.
Hotel facilities of Birmingham aro
already taxed to capacity by reserva
tion, and hundreds of homes will be
thrown open to the thousands of visi
tors, who began to arrive In large
numbers.
GEORGE W. DAVIES DEAD
Said to lint e Iteen Original of One
of Characters in Dickens's
"Alcholas ."Vickieby."
MOBILE., ALA., May 15.?Georgo W.
Davies. who was said to have been the
original schoolmaster portrayed in
Charles Dickens-* "Nicholas Nlckelby."
was burled here to-day. His remains
reached here last night from Spring
field, Mo. He died there on Thursday.
He was born in England on January 12.
3S35. and was given his higher educa
tion at Oxford University. He came to
America twenty-five years ago, settling
in Mobile. After moving to St. Louis,
Mo . he returned here, only to leave
later for Springfield, Mo., in November,
l:?lf>. He was a scholar and a civil
engineer by profession.
It is said he acquired a close friend
ship with Prince Edward of England.
Through the latter friendship he re
ceived honors from Queen Victoria. Ho
was once accorded the honor of accom
panying Queen Victoria and family to
Egvpt.
ROFRANO SURRENDERS
Former Deputy Street-Cleaulng Com
missioner of New York Indicted
In Murder Case.
NEW YORK, May lu.?Michael A.!
Rofrano, former deputy street-cleaning I
commissioner of New York, surrendered
voluntarily late to-day to District At- j
tornev Swann to answer to an Indict-j
ment In connection with the murder of j
Michael Galmari in March. 1S15, which]
was the outgrowth of a political feud
here. Rofrano disappeared the day he
was indicted last October, and nothing
had been known of his whereabouts
until to-day. A reward of $5,000 had
been offered for his arrest.
Rofrano was at odds with "Rig Tom"
Foley, former sheriff of New York, over
the Tammany leadership in the Second
District. Gaimarl was one of Foley's
lieutenants. Three murders are al
leged to have resulted from the feud.
Gael an o Montimagno was convicted of
the actual killing of Gaimarl, and is
now in the death-house at Sing Sing.
Rofrano is said to be wealthy.
MRS. WAITE IN NEW YORK
Arrives for Trlnl of Husband, Who I*
Churned With Murder of
Her Father.
NEW YORK. May If..?Mrs. Clara A.
Walte arrived here to-day from her
home In Grand Rapids, Mich., accom
panied by her brother, Percy E. reck,
for the trial of her husband, Dr. Arthur!
Warren Waite, accused of the murder j
of her father, John E. Peck, in this
city on March 12. The trial Is set for
next Monday.
One of the largest panels ever called j
In a murder case here will be called. It
was announced to-nlgnt. The commis
sioner of juries has arranged foT 250
talesmen lo appear on Monday, awd 150
on Tuesday.
!
WILSON AT PRESS CLUB
I
President S pen lis Intimately for Hnlf
nn Hour to Member* of
Orgnnlxatlon.
WASHINGTON, May 15.? President
Wilson spoke Intimately for half nnj
hour to-night to the members of the
National Press Club here. He remained:
at the club throughout the evening,)
staying for a supper after his address. J
The speech was confidential, but may
be published later.
Electric Scoreboard to
Show Work of Climbers
Thr big nnv electric scoreboard
countructed for Thr Times-Dispatch
tins been InNtulled mid, beginning
tills afternoon, will show ench and
every game pln>ed by the lllehmond
Internutlonuls during their trips
nbroitd this Miniinrr.
I.ensed wires will flush results,
play by play, and tlie service will be
Identical with that given by The
Times-Dispatch during the World's
Serif*. Complete accounts of the
games will be carried ench morning!
nnd In addition Tlie TImes-Dlspntcli
will continue to carry tabulated box
scores of tlie Natlonul, American,
International and Virginia Leagues,
as \v~ll as nil live happenings in the
world of sport.
Parading for Preparedness
rat-* ^JgMaCHWWBB^ < *y>a?M8>SjtMr<Ji
Nation's greatest parade favoring preparedness passing Fifth Avenue,
X. Y., on Saturday.
| Galling**!", Republican Lender, Pre.
I vents Confirmation Through Power
of Senatorial Courtesy.
! VOTE IV OPPOSITION*, <2 TO 30
I |
; Five Republicans Are for Favorable i
! Action and Fourteen Democrats |
Against?On Trade Commission
Under Recess Appointment.
| WASHINGTON. May 15.?The noml
| nation of George Rublee, of New Hamp
? shire, as n member of the Federal I
Trade Commission wns rejected to-day j
by the Senate. Senator Galllnger, the!
Republican leader, had opposed the
nomination for fifteen months on the!
I ground that ho was "personally ob
j noxious" to him. and the power of the
j senatorial courtesy tradition was so
[great that he won his point by a vote
of 42 to 3t?. in spite of a vigorous and j
I insistent tight l?y the administration I
for confirmation.
j Mr. Rublee, who has been serving on I
the commission since soon after it wasj
I crcated. will lose his post and draw no j
salary for his work, unless the Senate's!
Action is reconsidered. Five Republi
cans voted for his conflrmation and
fourteen Democrats voted against it.
Senator Mollis, of Now Hampshire,
who led ilie light for Rublee, may move
for a reconsideration at another execu
tive session in the near future.
I.A KOI.I.fcJTTK ASS A II.S
<iAliL.I\(;iOH'.S POSITION j
The tight to-day reached a climax'
when Senator I.a Follctte assailed Se?-j
ator Cialllnger's position, declaring that
this was the first time since he had
been in the. Senate that the "personally
obnoxious" rule had been applied with
out adequate proof, and also the first
time it had been applied against a
national appointment.
Caustic remarks by Senator I.a Fol
lette aroused Mr. Oallinger. and a bit
ter retort closed the debate. Senator
Mollis and others ur?ed confirmation <>f|
Rublee, maintaining that he was an '
able public servant and valuable to the I
commission.
Republicans who voted for conflrma-1
tlon were: Clapp, Kenyon, La Follctte,
Norris and Polndexter.
Democrats who voted against con-'
ftrmation were: Rnnkhead, Jtroussard, j
Chamberlain. Clarke, of Arkansas*,;
Mardwick, Martin, Martine. O'Oorman,
Reed. Saulsbury, Smith, of Georgia:;
Smith, of South Carolina: I'nderwood
and Vardnman.
Mr. Rublee. regarded as a Prngres
sive, was first nominated to the Trade!
Commission for a term of three yeara
by President Wilson In February. Iftl.VJ
The Interstate Commerce Committee;
eventually reported the nomination j
favorably, but a vole in the Senate was
withheld until Congress had adjourned.
Then the President gave Mr Rublee a
recess appointment.
A I.I. A HO A ft l> l"OR lllRMIXdllAM
vt.i .SOUTHKrt.N iiaii.wAY. JU.Si round}
trip, .May la to II.
LITTLE HEAVY FIGHTING
III ANY OF WAR THEATERS
French Oust Teutons From Trenches
Over 200-Vard Front in
Mouse Hills.
srccurcn nv SURPRISE ATTACK
Bombardments Alone Taking Pluce
Around Verdun?British in Coun
terattack Drive Germans From
Foothold Gained Fast of Loos.
Little heavy fighting is in progress
in any of the various war theaters.
The Kreticli, in tin: Mouse hills, to
the east of Verdun, in a surprise at
tack, have cleared the Germans from
trenches over a front of ahout 200
yards, and also have put down in
Champagne several German attacks.
Bombardments alone are taking place
around Verdun.
Along the British line in France,
bomhardtnents and sapping operations
are being carried on at various points.
East of Loos, the Germans succeeded
in galning-a footing in Rritisli trenches,
hut were able to hold them only a few
minutes under a counterattack.
The Italians in the Monte Adamello
region hove captured Col di l.ares,
which is of great strategic value in
their movement against Trent. The
Italians have mad.- further progress
against the Austrians on Mount
Sperone.
Attacks by the Austrians to the north
of l.enzumo were repulsed by the
Italians. Elsewhere along this front
there haw been only artillery engage
ments.
Little lighting of moment Is going on
between the Teutonic allies and the |
Hussions on Russian territory, except ,
artillery duel*. .
' In the Caucasus region the Russians j
are continuing their advance against;
the TurUs, according to Petrograd. In '
the operation toward Mosul, having [
Bagdad as its objective, the Turks are
declared to have retreated precipitately I
before the Russians, leaving war tna-'
terial. The Russians ar? in pursuit.
HEMilANS WIN sirtEXSES
IX (iKIt.M.W KAST A Kit It A ;
PARIS, May ir>.? Purther successes!
for the Relgian expedition which has]
invaded Herman East Africa were, an-!
nounccd in the ofllclai statement made j
to-day by the Belgian War Department;
at Havre.
The statement says that Colonel
Molitor, in command of the southern j
column, occupied Kigali, capital of th??;
German Piovince of Ruanda .on May S.
The 1 telktsiti troops have also captured
the Island of Kivlulvl. in I.ake Kivu.
which the Germans took by surprise ntj
the beginning of the war.
IIOAI1IA It l)?i:.XT. < ON I IN I ES
IN VEItlM \ ItRClO.V
PARIS, May 15.?The bombardment J
In the region of the Avocourt wood and
hill N'o 3ot, in the Verdun section, con
tinues. according to an otficlal state
ment Issued to-day by the French War
(Continued ou Second Page.) J
SCOT! RETURNS
OPTIMISTIC OVER
RESULT OF TRIP
His Meetings With Obregon
Lead to Creation of Bet
ter Understanding.
MIGHT FURNISH BASIS
EOR FORMAL PROTOCOL
Developments Tend to Confirm
Reports of Unwritten Agree
ment Being Reached.
nORDKR SITUATION UNCHANGED
Washington Officials Not Very Clear
as to Political Conditions
in Mexico.
WASHINGTON*. May 1 Ti--MaJor-OAn
tral Scott, chief of staff of the army,
returned here to-day optimistic ovvr
the military pit nation, and confident
that the meetings with General Obro
pcon had created a better ""understanding
between the two governments, which
might furnish the basis for a formal
protocol. The chiof of staff was lj-i need
of rest, and did not see Secretary Lan
sing, though he reported briefly to Sec
retary Baker.
Kliseo Arredondo, the Mexican am
bassador-designate. asked for instruc
tions as to his course last week, but
General .. Obregon probably will not
reach Mexico City for several days, and
the reply from General Carrnnza is not
expected here tm til the Minister of
War's report has been received.
War and State Department advices
showed no change to-day in the situa
tion In Mexico, or along the border.
While press reports have told of sevoral
raids of n minor character at various
points in the last few hours. General
Vunston either has been unable to con
firm these stories or thought them too
unimportant to bring to the attention
of the War Department.
Administration ofllcials continue to
express confidence that the forces now
under General Funston's command will
be able to protect the border In such
fashion that repetitions of the Glenn
Springs raid will be Impossible, unless
there is a general anti-American out
break beyond the border In which Car
ratiza troops participate. There is
nothing to Indicate the likelihood of
such an event.
SCOTT Wl I.L. CO.VPKH
WITH I1AKER TO-DAY
Genera! Funston's new plan for co
ordinating the work of the border
guards was regarded in some quarters
here as tending to confirm Intimations
that an unwritten agreement as to
steps to be taken was reached at the
B1 Paso conference. No official would
admit, however, that a plan of action
had been agreed upon by the conferoes.
General Scott probably will confer nt
length with Secretary Baker to-mor
row. and later with Secretary Lansing.
The War Department has had no ad
vices mentioning Villa's name for many
days. Some officers are Inclined to be
lieve that he is either dead or has
slipped away Into hiding to recuper
ate from serious wounds. For the pres
ent. at least, he has ceased to be a
factor In the border situation.
As to the political situation In Mex
ico, officials do not seem to be very,
clear. The Mexican civil population
outside the larger t^wns Is understood
to be absolutely Ignorant of what 19
going on In the world or even In Mexi
tco. Telegraph wires are down icft
many sections, and branch rallwayd
are operating only special trains. Few
newspapers, either Mexuxn or Amer
ican, penetrate Into the back country.
This condition Is undoubtedly a factor
in the political problems of the Car*
ranza government.
HKTUH.Y OK AMBASSADORS
WITHOUT SIGNIFICANCE
Mr. Arredondo issued a statement to
night declaring that the recent return
of Perez ftomero to his post as Mex
ican ambassador to Tokyo, and the ap
pointment of Rafael Zubaran as diplo
matic agent to Germany and her allies,
as well as to Denmark, had no sig
nificance and did not foreshadow any
effort to negotiate alliances with any
of these powers. The statement said
similar agents have be?-n sent to Kng
land and her allies, and to South and
Central American countries.
Mr. Arredondo said the Southern
Mexican states, little affected by the
revolutions ?>f the last five years, wore
making great strides in financial prog
ress. A $100,000,000 (Mexican gold)
Mexican concern is being formed with
government support, to undertake the
upbuilding of public utilities, particu
larly railroads in these statos. The
government's outstanding valid obliga
tions have been reduced IS per cent.
TltOOI'S TO SAKKIifAIlD
SOITIIKUN IWriFIC RAM, WAY
SAN ANTONIO, TEX., May 15.?
Major-General Funston and his staff
worked out many details to-day of the
plan of reorganization of the border
patrol. Reports from General Pershing
showed his troops have been drawn
closer together and gave no sign that
early resumption of the chase of Fran
cisco Villa was contemplated. Colo
nel Sibley. in the Ilik I tend section. Is
driving his little command of cavalry
some sixty miles south of Hoqulllas,
but at headquarters there is displayed
little hope that he wtll capture the
bandits who attacked ltoqulllae and
Glenn Springs or rescue .lesse Deemer,
an American, carried iway by them.
The safeguarding of the Southern
Pacific Hallway from here to El Paso
was decided upon to-day, and troops
will bo sent to every bridge along the
line, in the event of military opera
tions on a big scale, the use of the
railroad would be Imperative. For a
I
<
