THE WEATHER FORE
Rain to-day; to-morrow prol
IT SHINES FOP ALL
moderate winds.-
Highest temperature yesterdafc.57
Detailed weather, mall ami nnrlni
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 259.
NEW YORK, TUESDAY, MAY 16, 1916. Copyright, 19t, by the Kim Printing nml Publlshlno Atnoriatlon.
PRICE
cast: '
TAMPICO RAGES
AT AMERICANS;
GUNBOATS NEAR
i
Mexican Soldiers anil Civil
ians liiMtow Doinonstrii
lions rntliM' Chiof.
FOKKICiX TXTHIGUK
liKt'OKT IS DENIED
No Alliances With Germany
iintl Japan Sought,
It Is Said.
I
w..invriv Miv 1-, rnm.,t,H v... !
Xv.vsimmitos. Mn 1. Encouraged by
den. .Vifarette. tlio Carrniua com-
ni.mde r In that district, Mexican soldiers .
nnd civilian at Tampion are renewing
unfriendly demonstration toward Atncr-
leans there, according to advices re-
rrlveil at the State Department to-day.' llval, Tom Foley, on .March f. 11H6.
In consequence of the growing 111 feel- 1 Hls liolltlcal uctlvltles haw nuido Ko
,r,g which appears to result from the ; 0.Un CWU
continued presence of American troops , melltt wuloll tlu rt.,is jUJt l.efore his
In northern Mexico the Americans are Indictment and lllght, hu was once
becoming alarmed. I Superintendent of tho Tenement House.
rh v-.... i . .. . i Department, an organizer of tlio Homo
Ihe Navy Department has instructed Democrnl,c clul, ln MnMaoa HtrvH,
the commanders of tho gunboats ilachlas , was an active worker for Mayor Mltchel
mid Marietta, which are In the vicinity, I ami against Tammany.
to hold themselves In readiness to render
iiiou-ciion iu me .viueric.ius.
The State Department was further nil
vised tn.it through the persistent cfTorm
of tue American Consul at Tamplco three
Amerlcaiji who had been held In prison
bj the loi..U authorities have been re
leased. Admiral Cameron Melt. Wmslow, com
niandlns tlio I'acitlo licet, icported to tlio
Navy Department to-day j,h.it on de
mand of tho lommander of the United
Slates cruiser Denver tho Mexican au
thorities at Acapulco, on tho west coast,
have leie.iscd three Americans and one
Chilean, members of the crew of an
American schooner which was burned
off the Mexican port. The men were
being held on tho pretext that they set
lire to the vessel.
St-niHor Pin-Inn Arm.
Senator Thelan. California, enlisted the
ld of the Statu and Nay departments
in faor of the Americans, whose homes
ie at Oakland, Cal. Two of the Ameri
cans are Frank Horn and (Jeorge LavoW
iette. The n.uiid of the third and of the
Chilean aro not known here.
ucporis to tiie .state Department to
day Indicated artlvlty on tho part of
American consuls In Mexico to get
Americans out of the country. Tho con
sul at Muuzaiilllo advied that trains
me running legularly between lhatVlace
unci (iuadat.ijara and that he has ad
vised the consul at tlm latter place that
Americans can leavo whenever they de
Ire, us there are steanur.s scheduled
to leave Mauzanlllo for I'allfornl.i on
May 25 and June So. Train service
from tiuadalajara through Monterey Is
Interrupted.
The con.ul at San I.uls I'otosl re
portiil that there aro only forty-eight
Americans remaining In that district,
isore of them In destitute circumstances.
A strlk of railroad men at San I.uls
I'otosl, however, has Interrupted train
mice be'vueii thete anil the border.
Monterey and 1'iedras .N'igras are re
P'r ed ipilet
The .Mexican Kmbassy got a state
in'' t to-ulglit denying published reports
', ;ii Hen. I'arranza has tent emissaries
.! 'apan and (.leimnny to enlist tho sup
p'l' of those countries in case of war
lie'ttien tho I'nlted States and Mexico.
It s al.o declared there Is considerable
iikji.iI activity In the eastern States
u' Mexico and that the Mexican (!ov-
ii-i i lins redefined ami burned about
io nun mm in .Mexican paper currency.
Tlie II ex I can Stnlement
T m s'atement follows
ni'ravcntlun of the ptess state-,
11 ' the 1 tfeet that envoys of the
C ir.n ij.inallet government have been
1 'e-iiriany auti jainin ior ine
1'. n if arciiigliig teciet alliances
' 1 itt-e enipltes, a pjoper explanation
tif the . 11 lllui-uiliccs seems to tile btl
f an 1 .fjitna ion of the Mexican Cov
ertu 11 ti lie at this time desirable.
Iv (7. Itoniem has recently re
tuin'ii to his post In Japan after a brief
fnjiiurn n Mexi- .1 and tile United States,
llafucl Zuburan has l-en accredited as
dipluiMii m piesentailvr, of Mexico to
'no vermirniK of Hcrniany, Austria,
Huican.i, Denmaik and other Kuropean
it The apiKilntnicut of neither
01 in. e otllcials lias any
purpose other
' an . 11 tney . hoiild
exercise the ordl-,
r v lin.tioiis of diplomacy.
"'"'.I"?: :,m.'::,!:!m8 ..1!::..."?,...?th",i..,i,rL to" reln.bure them for heavier
Su' hiz A--una as envoy to Oreat
Hri'ii- Frn Spain, Norway. Sc., and
'I'. 1 ." r. ,''lmoy 'V A"i''ll,lnA; 1
lira i i lie and the countries of Southi
Ainern-a All ,f these selections mark ,
v o restor.it on of Mexico's dlplo-1
tr.nt ie ui.utors nth the outside world
niul ,-i-e preliiii'iury to the it-institution
' i
tile
mpleti diplomatic service of1
f i , ut'iii .
lleporls riniiiii-liil Progress.
"Tie f-aMc n Slates of Mexlio, Vtica
tM '.i i.pe Tibaseii and Chiapas,
i in e i.erc . eV hule dlsturbeil by the
pi ' ."1111 no making great strides
t'm " , il iitogriss The South-
1 Piom-,1 ng Company (Companla
0- I e,,lo I SlirlCI-tl' -1" Mexico) H
ii.i'ie 1 iiu i , witli a capital of 1100,-
Miv hi void, which will uiiiU'r-
1 inan,V W'.'.s of public utility, but
ii ifiet . ti s the building and operas
f ail l in thosi, Stales.
vl i.olo of Yucatan has granted
i int
I
f
i,i
jenrv
I
iiml
ii M. .
'i no i-ry facility ami wilt
' " "ib-crlbeis In the name
-' ' - Vin.iit.iii. i'bo duration
n ; - : (halter will bp 100
- dollars, Mi xlciwi paper
U leilccmed with gob
have l,.en Incinerated
u..l IIC.Oo.i.iiuO more will
tho nevt few days,
1 e Mex lean paper out
r all valid Issues, by I
I er If Slllt of tile Mllll-
labllshi'd two iiioiiIIih
p irponi of wilhdrawiiig
i tho paper currency lb-
.1
(.it-
T
I -r ,
tn,
frurn
ROFRANO SURRENDERS;
GOES TO TOMBS CELL
' Accused Slayer Waits in Washington Square for Dis
j trict Attorney Swann Refuses to Tell Where He
' Hid Political Feud Led to Murder Plot.
Michael A. Ilofrano, former Deputy
Street Cleaning Commissioner, who linn
been sought nil over tlio country for
eight months, quietly gave himself up
In Washington Square In tiroiul daylight
yesterday afternoon to answer to n
chargo of murder growing out of his
political rivalry with Tom Foley In this
"owntown L.ttlo Italy.
Tho question of whom
Hofratio hn
been hiding alt thin time In still un
' answered. He illil not toll where ho had
been to any of thoso with whom ho came
I 111 contact yesterday, and District At
I turner Swann, to whom pereonnlly Ko
frano surrendered, did .not ask him. It
was hinted that ho made a long motor
trip to rtaeh tin- District Attorney.
Huf ratio spent last iiIkIH in tl o Tombs,
,, w, U) nrral(fIM.(1 ,.,,,,, beforo
Judge Dclchunty In General S. salons to
plead to the Indictment that h . so long
"ung mr "la head ehurgliii, llrst do
gne murder. Ho Is charged
with pro-ll.ll,,,-.,-!
.uiiiiK me. nilllllK UL .Miciiac
mial.ii. .1 1.11(1 ,,..,-
t.iii.i.i.iiv f..n..ur u,.f,
ior tn Tomlii In n Tl.
District Attorney Swann. Martin W.
Littleton, Itofrano'M counsel, anil his
brother, Hubert Itofrano, worn In the
taxlcah In which the Indicted man rode
to the Tombs. The surrender had been
arranged bv Mr. Littleton, who was en
i gaged by Hubert Itofrano for the pur
1 pose. The party found Itofrano. looking
tanned and healthy, standing within a
lew leei 01 inrce uuuuiiiivu jjuui-i-iiii'ii,
who never dreamed he was the man
whose picture and description have been
scattered broadcast with an offer of
$5,000 for his arresL
On tho way arrns town Judge Swann
talked with Itofrano. but said later ho
did not ask him whero he had been
' since September, when he eluded de
i tectlves set to watch lilm and disap
peared almost simultaneously with the
llndlng of the murder Indictment ngalns
him. Itofrano declined to tell where In
had been to other Innulrers. and Mr.
Littleton said lu didn't know. Hobcrt
Itofrano ald :
He's been In hell; now hes In
heaven."
At the time his brother Mike was In
his cell In murderer's row In the Tombs.
According to Mr. Littleton the re.von
why the former Deputy Street Clean
ing Commissioner ran away when hu wns
lt,dlcted was political. It would not take
! a wis" pet son lo ree that he vvirutd have
been a political sacrilice If he hail stuy.d
and been tried then, in the height of
a pol.tical campaign, said Mr. Littleton.
j Prlaonrr Mn Tell All.
"You don't need to tell mo that con
ditions now are different," Mr. Lltlltton
1 continued. "You don't need a book writ
ten on the situation, it was not mi
natunil that he should go away bellev
li.g that he was Indicted for political
1 reasons. A man with as many ft lends
as he hail then, ami still hus, I think,
may have had too many advisers.
"The HrH I knew about his desire
to surrender was forty-eight hours ago.
when his brother retained me. Thvi
a plan of surrender vias gone Into, and.
while I was in Judge Swann's office to-1
day a telephone message from oungj
Itofrano told mo whan I could meet
the defendant."
Judge Snann and Mr. Littleton ptob-
ably will confer to-day on tho -pos-slbll-1
Ity of Itofrano telling where he spent
his elaht mouths In hiding, and per -
haps determine the truth of the many
rumors of his hiding place that have
been circulated while the pollcu evarched
everywhere for him.
Mr. Littleton has not ct suggested
COAL PRICES ADVANCED
10 TO 30 CENTS A TON
That's nt Wholesa!" " Cent
Jump at lictnil Pre
dicted. PHlLAliKl-PIHA, May IS. The anthra-1
cite coal operators antuiunceu to-iity
their new schulule of rates, advancing
I wholesale prices fiom 1" to 3" cents a
'ton, Tills Increase, the retallem made
haste to declare, would bo passed on to
., ,.,, ,n,,.i.r with an niblitlonal
operating charges Incident to the runnlrw
of tlier buslue!-f.
Exactly what the new prices to tlm
"- '
householder will be the retailers said
.1,,,.. t-ould not say offhand, but that the
nubile will ! paying 50 cents a ton more i
this full than formerly was the opinion
commonly exjipeil.
Ill detail trie prices mane ny me npei
i iitni-s show an advntico of in cents a ton
on buckwheat coal ; :' cents mi pea , ;, ,
on chestnut ; 311 n stove, and 30 on
'gg. Hroken coal, of which very little
Is' iived, will net be affected.
Tim si-beilule came through the Phlla-
1 delphla and Heading Coal and iron
I Coriinaiiv.
INTERNED ALIENS SLAIN IN RIOT
tilstrlnna In f'liiiniln lamp He be I
niul Are llnyoiieteil.
t.. Mm' 15 A serloiw clash
occuried at Kapuskaslng
Uiternmenl
..,i,i 111 Jioiliein win.,,,-. ..........
n jioriiierii ion, ur
several hundred Interned
mles and the 3nf soldiers
n lien
ene-
on guiiiil.
Henorts are fragmentary, but a despatch .
') ' Cocirann to-night savs at least j
" , ,,,.,!, p are severely In-
' ' , f(lllr olhen less seriously hurt,
J"r,' , V, ,' 0(.(.nei at P.iewawa In-1
lernment camp In eastern imiiirio last
neck and lb" allfns being too much'
for the guard six caiiouls of Austrlatisl
,,, sent to Kiipiiskasliig. On arilval
they rcfueed to do in.iuiial labor, and
...i. i iiieir e ioein m tr i n, v,.,,-.. ,
the til hem llisni-i
the camp, only In bn
...ut t,v biivouets
while shots were tired
at some who olteinptcd to flee,
nny particular lime for trying his client,
but Judge Swnnn said that he. believed
the prosecution could movn for trial In
the June term of (leneral Sessions.
Thi' news of Itofrano's arrest spread
quickly through the Crlmlnnl Courts
Iltilldlng and the lower city and there
was quite n llttlo crowd In tho hallway
of the Tombs when Wnrden llnnley
Piloted him to his cell. Tho prisoner
was well dressed In a closely fitting
serge suit and light fedora hat, nnd
stiwked a cigar ns hn hailed by name
many whom he knew.
"It's sad to bo locked up In the old
bnstllo I worked on," ho said with a
smile, recalling his work ns a building
contractor In wrecking tho old
clty j
prison building replaced by the Tombs
No sooner had tho cell door clostd
upon his rather bulky figure than the
District Attorney's offlco began plan
ning to gnther more material for his
trial At this trial It may be that C.ae
Inno Montlmngno may be brought from
the death houso nt Sing Sing to see if
he can ca-.t more lluht on tho caso
niralnst Itofrano. Montlmngno has been
convicted of llrst degree murder In the
Oalmarl case. He was promised $25u
by somebody to kill the Koley lleutennnt.
A few weeks ngo Montlmngno offered
to tell the District Attorney who was
behind the plot tn kill Oalmarl, but his
offer was not accepted because It was
thought his story could lc used only
ngnlnst Itofrano. who was not then un-
tier arrcsi. Iiunrfi ii. i.mri, ill- vu li
fe'., will bo asked to-day to find out If
M mtlmagno Is still minded to tell what
he knows, and If ho Is he will bn brought
heie at once. Ills case awaits an ap
peal. Two Other In Plot.
llesldes Montlrrngno two other men
are in Sing Sing for sharing In the plot
to kill Tom Foley's most formidable nld
among the Italians of tho Second Assem
bly district. ltcco Carnivale, or Hox
Cornell. Is serving twenty years to life ,
and rrank 1 ennhnor feven and a lialf
I to tlfteen vears.
Montlmngno was tried first of these I
three and all through tho testimony or
Antonio and Joseph I-i Salle ran the i
....... r MI..I...I lifr.. Tl,.. Ii-nllif.ru I
i,'.,i n I v i,....ii .'onvleted of klllliie I
James Mlnott. another Foley lieutenant,
on January 1, 1916. Joseph La Sallo
gave testimony about plans to kill
iiilinarl and so 'end his work for Foley
an ong the Italians of Cherry Hill nnd
Tso testified about telephone calls be
tween Hof ratio nnd the house where the
plotters lived.
Fetinlmor then pleaded guilty and It
was largely on tils evidence that Ho
fratio was Indicted for murder, charged
with being the brains and will behind
the plot to kill his dangerous rival.
Caim.irl
Nut uii'll Carnlvnlo's trial did Itofrano
. ... .. -t.
se-n to Iieeu ine tnings inai were oeing
s.u I and hinted at nbout him. Then lie
took the stand for Carnivale, and though
te-vou made a gold witness for the
defence.
Immediately after the convictions of
t-e three Mont Imago, Carnlvalo and
Fetinlmor h 'Wever, he resigned his po
:t!,m in the city government and dropped
it of sight, eluding detectives who had
w. itched him f r das. on the very ''''
i.f Ills Indlitment. Mayor Mltchel got
the lloaril of Aldermen to offer a J5.0U0
it-ward for him.
Tie State's contention le that the
murder of ilaimarl and Mlnott grew
out of the rivalry between Itofrano and
T"iii Foley for Democratic supremacy In
'Iv Second Assembly district Itofrano.
once a Tamminy worker mill strong In
. Iliienco among the Italians there, broke
away, Joined Mayor MltchelV forces and
p.rii'ied the Home Hule Democratic Club
. opposition to Foley's Downtown Tam
il, nv Club at 4 M.nnm strtet.
The rivalry became bitter, then he
me a feud, in which there were many
islKiotlugs and st.ibblngs Twice Foley
h,
minif was nearlv klllel. once bv a
it m with a knife, once by a man with a
rr!e who tried to pick him on from a
1 roof opposite hu clubhouse. Then came
t,(. murdeis and llofrano's Indictment
j ;1i , dlsappenrance. Since then tho Home
l u(. Club him cloeed Its doors and many
i f is members have gone back to tho
l-v lcy fa -11011
' HARDEN APPEALS FOR
'A RETURN TO REASON1
lli'iiin Kditor ('oiideiuiis Spirit
Displayed in (ierniiiny's
loist Note to I'. S.
1
;cei( I alilt VikKi'A IhTiik
IIkiii.i.v, via Amsterdam, May 13.
.Maximilian lliuilen In IHr .ukunft can
! n.ns the spltlt revealed In (lermaio's
imie to the I'nlted Stales. e c.ii
tiinls that the "lime bus com? for Ihe
! '' dn to assert
Itself In the dire, lion
!"f Herman affairs,
the sword linv.ng
obviously failed to achieve what was
ptomised," and continues
"The time has come U choo'e be
twien methods Involving tlm lenuncla
I on of the remainder of the human race
"l the return to reason. Arms can cud
the war at best by an armistice.
The whole nation must prohibit the
u-e of all methods of warfare which are
mi.ikely to bilug the war to a lit and
iiroiici- end
Kerr llai den accuses the Herman
Ii I'lers of obstructing the conclusion of
l.i.i e at the most invoraiue possiine
moment that lionnnn Is likely to havei
v-.in hsared her i ne Herman fom
p tint ili.it women nnd chlldicu ale tor
' n,(l bv hunger Heir Harden considers
pan .'tilaiiy unfortunate, sajlng tint
Pifsldftit Wilson would bo pctfcctlj
ii-o.lli-il In ic plying thai the Fnltiil
si. nes has doiif iiotiri-i to frustrate tho
laigllsh starvation plans because he has
In, nil again and again from Herman
' Ml, I, ils thai Iho Fiigllsli plan was
"downed lo failure."
The iiA'iliif's editor (ittaikH the Prus
iiin Couse rviillve Ifiulef I leydebi'anil for
vilifiing President Wilson for allowing
u minions to go ,to the Allies lie lelli
lb vl. '111111111 that Heimiuy has sirpplifd
inimltions to evety belllgeieut In the
wot Id In the ilfc.ulfS patd ami Hint she
wns tuevfiilfd fiom suppljlng Ihe Hoots
with aniniunll Ion "only by tho same sea
powii alilch now prevents; iletmauy
fiom gelling Alio clean iniiiilllous "
Iteferiitu; In Hf.vdebianil'H lament for
the giief of llfmi.uis who lilollin Ihe
bliinilslied caused h Aliieilcan liillllitloli.s
I In i-tlt-ii asks it l lift i filff io mule
I'olguanl than thai wlilfh I'ollnwfil the
caiungn wrought by the Krupp'H mur
dermis products.
SENATE REJECTS
GALL1NGERS FOE
lliihtec, Wilson's Nominee for
Trade Bonrd, Loses 1y
12 io ac
lo DEMOCRATS HKVOIjT
Action Ilplievpil to Foreshadow
the Dpfcnt of tho UrnnuVis
Nominntion.
WASlllNnTOS', May 15. The Senate, by
a vote of 12 to 36, rejected this after
noon tho nomination of fleorgo Hublee,
nominated by 1'resldent Wilson ns tncm-
her of the Federal Trade Commission.
Mr. Hubleo was In tho first butch of
nominations sent In for the commission
almost two yenrs ago and never has been
coiiflrmM. The Senate adjourned the
llrst session without confirming, nnd the
: 1'resldent thereupon conferred a recess
Appointment on Mr. Ilublce.
. Some time ago, wnen It became ap
nit-Ant flint Mr. Hlihlen coulrl not be I
confirmed, the President was urged by j There nre thirty-three Senntnrs whose
Senntor Newiands and other Democrats terms win expire on March .1. 1!I7.
i r , - " ,
sltlon nnd Invoked the rule of "Sena-. -November. Of these eighteen are Demo
torlnl courtesy." Kor severnl months ' crats nnd fifteen are Itepubllcans. The
the Democratic leaders who vvere fil.M.dly i i,CI0Crat, ntnv llmJr,v of x. I
to Mr. Hublee have been spnrrlng for '
I time, and
1',',
llnullv Senator (.iaiiinger
nctlon. I
Tlve Itepubllcans of the progressive
type voted for Mr. Hublee and fourteen;
Democrats voted ngalnst him. The He-'
publicans who voted for him were Clapp,
Kenyen, La Kollette, Norrls and I'oln- t
dexter.
The Democrats who voted agalnt con
tlrmlnc Mr Hublee were Itankhead. I'n-
, derwood. Ilroussard. Chamberlain. Mitltn
(Ueorgla), Hardwlck. Clarke. Martin.
. Martlne. O'dorman. Heed, Salisbury, I
Smith (South Carolina) and Vardaman.
M Hnlilee Not !nrirlseil.
News of Mr. Hunlee'M rejection nacneu
hliu at the baseKUl nrK,
where he was
attending tne game, tie nnnmi um. ,
he was not unpretured for It. Senotjr j
ftnlllnirnr folli-lil Mr. Hubbe because I lie !
latter hail been one of hN tsilltlcal ene-
mles In New Hampshire ine enator
told his c illeagpes that IllltUce was per- n'e about to exb re at.- A. Hirst of Ari
sonally "distasteful" to him. r.ona, Ilryan of Florida, Chilton of West
Mr. Hublee, ti prominent coiporatlon , virgin' i, t'ulber-on of Texas. IliuiKci
lawyer, had a summer home In New- of .wbraska. .luhiioou of Maine, K-rn
Hampshneund found hlmt-t-:r in vnlltical 0f Indiana, Tagg.irt of In.ll.inn, Lea of
communion with Winston Churchill, ex- Tenti'-Jsee. Leo of Maryland. .Martlne uf
lov. II is and the group of reformers v,w. jrI0Vi .M)(.rs .Montana, n'C.or
who waged war on Senator (lalllnger's i ,., ,,f ,, yriii i.ttman of Nev nl.v
organization and brought ubotit the elec-1 pomerene of Oiilo. Hred of Missouri,
tlon of (lov. Pass and thn retirement of .-h.oi.mui of Virmti.a and Williams of
Senntor Hurnliam, HepublUiin, who wah ji,hSlt.Ip,,,
defeated by Senator HoliK The same u ,H ronce,,,., bv the Progressives
kiuup inane ii iii-ii-iuiiiir,i i. Kin ii '
ator Uallinger when be came up for le-
-Urllnt, I, nt l,n tr iimiilip.t over tbem. '
election, but tie tnumpiie.i over mem.
Mv. Hul.le.-ho was formerly a- tu-
publican. Joined the Progressive move-
met.t In 191- and lepresented Col. House.
velt In the platform conimlttte at the
Hull Moose convention In Chicago. Nomi
nally he l a member of the Progressive
' Slate fonimittce of New Hampshire, but
he supported Haymond Stephen", the
Democratic nominee for Senator, against
j Mr. tiolllnger In P.'l I.
I lleciuse of this and the fact that he
I has beta coopiiallug with the Demo
crats In most things since the Wllion
Administration came Into power It was
j u-.ged that the Prisldent had violated
the spirit. If not the letter, of the law
In nominating Mr. Hublee The law pro
, vulei that not mote than th., members
of the Fideral Trade Couitn.sMon shall
be of the some political party. The
President nominated three avowed Demo
crats, Mr. Hublee, a nominal Moose, atsl
William 11 Parry, who MipporttU Hoose
I veil In 131'.'.
' Most Client objection.
' The most potent objection with many
of the Democratic Senators was the at
titude of Mr. Hublee In favor of the
bill to penult price lining. Mr. Hubleo
cooperated with Louis D. Hramleis In
support of the Stephens bill permitting
price fixing.
Tins bill Is now being urged on Con
gress by the Fall- Trade League, and
In the hearings - the Hrandels cat-e
th activity of -Mr Hrandels for tho
bill has been criticised by many Sena-
' tors who believe that the proposed lels
latlon Is bad.
The effect of the vole to-day on the
prospects of Mr. Hrandels was not lost
sight of. Many til-servers believe that
It forej-hailons Mr. Hrandels' m rejection.
The most significant thing was the fact
, that Secretary McAdoo fn led -ignnlly
an a "whippet
tlon. He wax
in ror the Adiiilnlstr.i-1
it the Capitol last veek
urging that the Senate conllrtn Mr. Hub
l lee.
A featuie of the debate In the exe
cutive se.sslou this afternoon was the at-
I tacit by Senator La Follette upon the
! nlleged rule of "Senatorial courtesy."
I He Intimated that It was a myth; that
It had never beep tecognlzed 111 the
Seriate, and that no precedents could be
found for It.
1 The rejection of Mr Hublee Is the
second liupnttant defeat sustained by
i President Wilson In the matter of ap
pointments. He was obliged to with-
I draw
tho tiominatlou or Thomas D
of Chicago for the Federal He-
lones
serve Hoiud.
Senator Harris of New llampculis
changed hln vote on the Hublee nomina
tion from a yes lo no so that he might
be privileged to move later for a recon
sideration, HRANDICIS VOTI-: NKAR.
mile ,f uilleliiry Committee Will
TiiUe It Tii-iiiorrim .
Wasih.s'iitoN, May 15, The Sen.ili
Judiciary Committee will trke a vole on
Wednesday un the question of reporting
the nomination or Louis D, Hrandels to
be a member of the Supicnto Court. It
Is uiuleislooil that the nomination prob
ably will be icported without recoimneu
il a t Inn. Then will follow a light on Hie
Hour of the Senate
At the committee meeting In.ilay II
was agreed thai a fair exchange of
views on the case should follow, but that
tlin statements should be held teci et and
I that Senators should pledge themselves
not lo lalk oiilslde. As a I -lilt tho
' Impression got abroad that something
unusual bad happemd.
This whetted the curiosity until in
self-defence members of the comniiltee
hail to explain that tlio unusual nil-
fence was due to the ' genilt uiii s ngife
tnent" not lo talk about the meeting or
what Individual Keimtnis liad said on
the merits of the Hrandels cape.
Some of the coiiunlttee are opposed to
11 lopoii witnout recommendation, nay.
lug It looks like ail effort to evade tho
Issue, but it seemed piohahlc to-day Oiat
the committee would not make any
teciHl iiueinlallon to the Senate The
President Is said to be very active and
ilelei lulneil to force the continuation of
hi nominee.,
OFFER SENATE TO
BOOST ROOSEVELT
Progressives Ursrc Nomination
ns Only Wny tn Hring Itc
pultlicnn Utile.
TAIMFF IS TN TUTANTE
Colonel's Hnekers Point to Im
portance of Ending Flphts
in Close Stntcs.
One of the arguments which the Pro
gressive lenders nre preparing to uso nt
Chicago In their efforts to Induce the
Itepubllcnns to nominate Col. Hnosevelt
for tho 1'resldcncy Is that without him
ns their standard bearer the Hepubllcans
will be unable to (tain such control of the
I'nlted States Senate ns will Inniro a
speedy reveal of the Underwood tariff
law and the ennctment of n measure that
will accord with the doctrine of protec
tion for home Industries.
"lc --emur, i"! niin iremB
'o 0. The problem before the Ile-
pui,loa. ., therefore, to retain all of
,hc "'""n "at" hlch they now hold
and to gain at least eight .of those now
,y Democrats,
I'olnt tn Wiiy to Control.
This would Insure control of 'he
Senate only by the vote of the Vlce
I'resldent. nnd the Progressives staml
ready to show the Itepubllcans not only !
that this Is not enough, because, for In-
stance, Senator Ia I'ollctte v.ded for the
present tariff bill, but uKj that more
than a afe majority can be secured If
the jiomr person !s at the head of the
general ticket
The eighteen Democrats vhoe terms
i,n are e.iireslug rui' i anx etv for
, HepubUiiu, majority In the Senato
.1. .. ., . ..
,h,lt tll lllYcrSll ur fl)U,. or , ,
wnatorH will most eettainlv be Demo-1
ral1 ,n(. fouI ,,I1R jlMin ,)f Honda.!
CuPierson of Texas, Swanson of Vir
ginia anil Williams of Mississippi. They
tlgtire ,il.-1 that Lea of Teiine.-tee and
Lee of Mai- lain) will prohabb be suc
ceeded i:). Democrats, alth nigh Tennes
ne Is regarded as somewhat doubtful
because llenjamln W Hooper, twice
elected tiovernor. Is the Itopubllc.in can
didate. The Progressives expeit to point out
that In Ohio, New Vork, Montana, New
Jerey. West Vliimi.i and .Maine the
Kcpubllc.in Sen.itotlal candidate is rea
sonably sure of winning, provided there
l.s no third ticket in the :lld They sav,
for instance, that In Maine the Hepuli
llcan candidate is I "ted Hale, the son
of the late Senator llugenc Hale, but
that In spite of his pupularit he will
be beaten unies, some agrt ement lb
leached whereby the Progressive candi
date In the Held retires
ee biioee In I'hr Slitle..
In Aiizona. Missouri Indiana, Nevada
and Nebraska the Progressives feel tht
Itepubllcans havu a chance If they do the
right thliu. They say that Hoo.-evilt j
popular in Arizona and point out that
Senator Asluitst has stood with llu im
velt on the Mexican situation. The feel
that hu leprest-nts pnpul.n opinion in
Arlrona and that with the C'ionel had
ing the ticket Sen itor Aslunst v uld lie
displaced I iv a liepubllcau Who v.-ti.ll I be
with the Colonel on the tariff as well.
Waltir Dickey, to whom tie IK Is given
for t.iroing Missouri for Taf. In I Pub. Is
the ItepublK-ati caiidiilale .'ir Sonitor
fiom that State, anil it Is nssjtte.l he
could Will on a Itoosevelt tlc'tet
In Indiana liany New ami Jamas K.
Watson ale the Hepubllcan candidates
('regressive neiiieu to noimiiatu New as
against Watson for Senator Kern's phne
and think lio will wm anyway, but those
, at Progressive lieaitiiu.u tern heie say
Uha' Watson will have a hard time pull
ing through a Miccessor to Senator Tag
gait unless the Progressives Bet behind
him.
As lo Nevada, whete Senator New-
lands has boil a power in holding the
Democratic organization together, the
rrogressivcs icei inai wane lie call lioiil
Ills own, his strength will not extend to
Senator littnian's successor If Col.
Itoosevelt tuns at the head of the Hepub
llcan ticket Practically the same thing
Is asserted with respect to Nebraska,
where. It Is believed, a lie publican has
n chance against the Democrats for Sen
ator Hitchcock's place.
As fo the tlfteen .States from which
Ketibllean Senators whose terms are
about to cxjdio come, tho Progressive
leadeis hay that tho ability of the He
publicans to win In thliteiHi is not ills
puled, but that In W inning and Wis.
cousin the situation will lemaln In doubt
until Itoosevelt Is nominated.
Wimlil lult seimtorlal llnce.
i The Progicsslve leaders are prepated
lo inomlee the He publicans that for
Hoosf veil's nomination they will guai
, allien to 4 ml I out of the Menatoilal race
most of the Progressive candidates.
They have some doubts iih to their 1
ability to do this In 11 few States where,
1 1 hey say. Ihe Progressive spirit Is so i
, sttotig and the ihtdro to maintain a third
patty otgatii.atlon Is so anient that II
will be dllllfiilt lo make niicIi nil 11 r-1
'latMemeut
It Is pointed out by Progressive lead
ers here that this argument should have 1
great weight with such men as Senators
, Pentose, Lodge. I'lnik and Warren, all
of whom held liialiinnnshlps of vd'v
Impoitaut committees up to four ,mi-s
ago. They think that a laudable desire
for peisonal ii-elevatlnu added to in
; pntilotlc desire to save the country and
I Ihe tariff will turn the trick for tho
'olonei at i iiicauo. .s ror the ability
of the Hepiibllcans to carry the Senate
with .lustlie Hughes or some other
I candidate at the head of the ticket, the
progressives remo 10 couceite it Tlicv
sa that III" lingl'fsslves generally
might support a Presidential candidate
Indorsed by the Colonel, but Hint thy
would balk al lit lilng out Ihe lb pub.
Ilcans 111 the SelilUorl.il contests unless
lie were the Uepublicaii candidate him-t-elf.
.
GERMAN HAND REVEALED
AS TRIAL OF CASEMENT FOR
HIGH TREASON IS OPENED
("or -lit Pt ti A IMw in
Sir Roger Casement.
9 DIE, 26 INJURED
AS BUILDING FALLS
At
l.eiist Two Others Misinir
in
Itiiins of lt(tiiiiriinl
nt Akron, Ohio.
DUE TO DYNAMITE W.AST
I
' Akron, Ohio, M iv 15 -Nine persons
were cruthed to death nnd twenty-six
I were. Injured, many probably mortally.
this evening In the collapse ef the
Crstal Hestaurun' building, filled with
diners, at Main and Quarry streets.
A bli"t of tlyr.imlte In the excavation
for a juw building adjoining the res
taurant caused the collapse. ,
Seven Identified bodies nre n tin
mo-jue, with two u'llduitllleil bodies and
two perjtot'H ate missing. Their bodies
are thought to be In the wreckage.
Twenty-six Itijuifd persons iite In the
Peoples and City hospital, and It Is
thought several of these will file A
number of other victims weie glveji first
aid at the scene of th" disaster and
were taken to their hoires
So dense wns the emwil (wound the
scene of the wierk to-night that Mat
tery H. Field Artillery. Ohio National
CtUard, was called out and .aided the
polne In holding the people back o that
the irscuers could uuik It Is f-ti-mated
le.OOrt people packed Main and
uuarry striets.
1 he police
and the t-ity building In-
stiectioti ilepir'nn i.t started a tlgld In
vestigation of the Millapse. The wre-ked
building war an "Id one, formt rly oc
cupied b the lli nrioi-.oirioil. It wis
two stoties high, of brick construction
The upper Ilo r was used as a .ore
room Toe !lr' pel on extricated from the
' ruins was Mis II lam c l.au-on, who
had been dining w.th her husband and
1 small dauglitei. She was hfulseil and
( hit cillng, and almo'l fainting As she
tested l5 the curb her daughter was
borne out. t bo sent to the morgue This
prostrated the woman. Five minutes later
' the body of Inr husband was carried out,
but Mrs. Lawsoii was ton li.vstenc.il to
be told of It.
Paul X.erbe, a shoe salesman, was
i among tne Hist miivIvois to bn readied
b) the liSi-uel'S He was Uutly injut'id,
but v,ij able lo give an accnunt of
what had t. ippened
"I was silting about half way back
, :ii,i he. "and vva facing the front. The
Ida. t canie and cracked the big plate
glass window In ft out. It sounded like
the lepott of a lare gun. llvcr.v td) 's
attention wax attr.n'Ud. Calmness was
lestored In a minute or two, and ever
ulie w is joking about the shattering ot
the window.
"Then came an even louder if pott,
anil the glass tracked again. It seemed
to hang theif and the next moment the
whole window fell out.
"I snw several persons get up to
look. Then before any one had conjee
tilled the possibility of tho whole build
ing dropping In on us the celling fell
ilou 11
"The walls crumbled. 1 felt a blow on
the head, and I could feel myself sink
ing, I found nivself weighed down by
what I know was tons of debris I
could hat ely see 11 speck of daylight
Then, after an Inlet inlnable time 1 heard
chopping, and ptenntly I was taken
out "
The Serrls luothcis escaped by way
of the kitchen.
CRASH OUTSIDE THE HOOK.
Dalian Liner Sim
Ihe Sivetllsh
(Hot 11 11 ill
II 11 inn
(ire kliinil.
The Italian liner S.111 Ctloviinnl. which
sillied .veslerday for Henna, about mid
night list night struck the Swedish
steamship Hlfkland Just outside Saniiv
Hook. The Italian liner started bail;
for port and Ihe Hivkland sent out 11
wlielfis fall for Inip, but what damage
the vessels sustained could not be
learned. A dense fog covered Ihe water
at the time of the accident The ioo
nue culler Mohawk siarted out from the
K.trgo I lllll'e nt the Unite! y ill I espouse
in the HlililandV call.
The ilteklainl was Inbound She sailed
from SI Vim cut. Cape e rdo Islands,
on April II In iliar-:f of Cipl Vnder
berg Shi Is a ship nt' I i'.;i I tur Her
wireless call was 1 chived In Hie Htitisli
steamship I'oiliiKucae Pi nun slid the
steamer Hows..
Former London Baggageman Appears as Co
defendant Casement, Defiant, Declares
Him Innocent Throngs Turn Out
to Attend Hearing.
FLAG OF THE REBELS IS DISPLAYED
i
BEFORE THE CROWDED COURT ROOM
British Prisoners in Berlin Whom Casement Tried to
Get as Followers Testified Only 52 Out of
3,500 Yielded to Pleas.
Ajirefiif Cable Dtnwtrh to Tun Si
LONDON, May 1G. In the ordinary police court room in How street,
where "disorderlies" pay their five shilling fines, begun thia morning the
trial of Sir Roger Casement, once :i Ilritish Consul-Gcncral, and Dnnie!
Julian Hailey, formerly baggageman nt Paddington .Station, on the charge
of high treason.
There was no panoply of grandeur about the proceedings. They were
dramatic because of their simplicity nnd the revelations made. In fact,
the visitor in court, glancing at the iron barred dock, had difliculty in
connecting the two bearded, unkempt men totting therein with such a
serious charge as high treason.
Casement's lustreless black hair, sprinkled witli gray, was brushed
sharply back. His newly grown short black beard fringed a swarthy fnce
bleached to a slaty pallor. His suit, dnrk blue with black atripes, was
shabby and ill fitting, showing the bad effects of that plunge into thu sea
I off Ardfert on Good Friday, when his collapsible boat overturned.
! Considerable) surprise was man1.-,,,--
fested when It was Been that Cnnement
! was accompanied by another prisoner,
I Daniel Julian Hailey, soldier, who was
, one of the two men who accompanied
. Casement In the expedition Trom (let
1 many to the Tr.ilen Strand The third
of the three men who put off from the
I Herman submarine to the Irish coast
' in a small collapsible boat has not yet
' been captured.
HalleyV capture had been kept secret.
Moth men were charged In court with
high treason "for that they did between
'he ist of November, 1914, and on divers
other occasions lietweeti that day and
the Viet day of April, 19D1, unlawfully,
maliciously and traitorously commit
high treason within and without the
realm of Imglatid In contempt of our
sovereign lord, the King, and his. laws,
to the evil example of others In like
case and contrary to the duty nnd al
legiance of the said defendants
Tlm L-nli-hl snt tibnnt n fnit ItAm 1,1.
do,k lompanlon. Halle, piesen.ed u
Pitiable spectacle. He has a scraggy
......ir-.. ...,,, m,iii mm.- mi im
nnd which gives him a welid appearance.
in- ine a j.-iiim inacKiiuosji hut a
euow- nii sun wan. a was given 10
lilm after his landing. Hailey sat stiff
and upright In the diuk, Ills eves fixed
upon the bench, whereas Sir Kegel
lounged and glamed about the couit
roniii, makil.k notes on sheets of p.ipor
whlch he drew from his poi ket, nnd when
not so engaged, amusing himself drawing
ron ttts upon .1 large pad.
filat'liifiit'a .liiiiiillnrM Vssillneil.
Altbniigh I rieird the dock fled
and with a jiiuno swing, bowing to
friends In court, it was evident that Hit
was arffctatioii. The coriespontient of
Tub m-n slttltsi Just behir.il the dock, In
nrin's reath. fould ob-eive a tremor on
Sir Kegel's fare, while the ptisonet's
bands weie twitching neivousl.v. Hut as
the dav grew on Ins net vouspess ilis
appeared and Ihe piisouel seetned to
level In the spotlight, lit- smiled and
laughed whenever theie was an occasion,
pal tlciilarlv when one witness said that
the In-li pilsouers in Limbing thought
"he was up the pole."
That be was alert to every move be.
Ing made was evident from the cease
less notes hi- was taking, while his (.elf
assurance manifested Itself In the way
he motioned a polhem.iu to a-'t as a
niessengei to bring Ills mess.u'es to his
counsel
1 One pathetic- Incident, whkh passed
almost iiiiiiotb'td. occurred in tin- atttr
noon Sitting In a 1 orner was a .vouug
woman diess,,,i In velvet She bore
11 striking facial resemblance to Sir
linger ami was one of the llrst In court.
Late In the afleriiiKin, calmly glane-
1 Ing around the courtroom. Ignoring the
low eting glaiuis shot at lilm by lrsi
subnets and other witnesses. Casement
1 i-aiight sight of this woman, ga.vly waved
his hand at her and siiilllugl.v hotted
I She burst Into teats
l'liro((i;s S.,., 1l11tUsl1111,
Thu Intfifst In the ,',i.i- was evttaoi
tllii.ti -. . A line began to foim outside
tin- tolllttoom f.ulv. tin- tltst in Hue
being two ladies bring ng cushions ami
books with them Tlvt-i the crowd giew
until by !' u clock P.ow stnet was lllied
between Hie curl's b.v throngs anxious
to obtain admission. The police ot
gltlUcd them into illlllies, and when the
dnnrs opened at l' o .'In, 1 about 100
wen- admitted, .neludliig many women.
Within the courtroom Iheie was a
galaxy of legal lights, the Crown's case
being led by the Attottu-.v-ilener.il, Sir
I'n di-rick F Smith. Theie was a large
number of iiillltaiy otllcers, while 011 the
bein Ii sat among others Karl Hjsatt,
the llev It ,1. Campbell and Sir Horace
I'liinkctt other promlm-nt personages:
arrived later
At lo 30 o'clock there was a hush, tlm
Usher ci Ing, "Court'" The door back
of the bench was slightly opened. Magls
irate S'r John Dickinson entered, gravely
bowing to the light, left ami forward.
That even high treason chaigcs were
not permitted lo impede the oiderlv ton
line ot the police couil was illu.-t I .itt-tl
when two men cnteted the dock on ,1
minor chaise.
"You ale lemnndcd illllll .lutii 3."
said the Judge crisply, niul thfv left
the doik. Thfit- was atiothft' uiomt-ii-tiu
hush us tin- door matkid "I'll--nl'eis
only" vvas opened and Casement
and Hailey ciitcrcil the dock
Sir I'icileiick 11. Smith, 11 .voiithful
looking Vltoncy-iieni-ral, in tiioiioiouoiii.
tones nutlltieil Sir Koget's raret-r and
the Crown's tase N'ol nii'f did I.t- give
tin- prisoner a title other than "Case,
incut " Not once did he ralsf his voice
above a low pitch. Not nine did he
ifsoit to anything approaching deiia
ination, cvfii wbfii lie told of Casement
being booted and hissed and stunk b.v
lilsli pilsoiit-rs of war at l.itiiliuig wlnnn
tin- prlsoufl- tried t-i seduce fiom tiler
allt-g auce or of the dramatic liiiulin
011 the sinds ,if Aitlfeit 11 n .-idlipsi-ble
boat from ,1 t iei 111.111 submarine
Vs the viii Ions statements wen- made
Casfiiifiit would shake hlh head Willi
wan smile, then busy himself making
notis. Hailey, on the lontrary, like n
stmie Image, sat with folded aims.
The Attorney-denenii spoK,, i , , n tol.
ipmrters of an hour, then took up the
tvidence. Perhaps the i.enriht approarli
to fciuathy for Casement was witiiesned
when Iiaspector Parker told how ho took
both prisoner to How Street Court earl
In the morning and how Casement, point'
j ing to ltalley, hail said
"That man Is Innocent' I wish bini
in every way tn bo as we'l defended
tnyself. if he liar not
the means I
am
I repared for him
I 'Minimi n In lieriiuiiis.
The Attorney-tieneral charged
while In (Jermany Casement had
thai
con-
nuctert a systematic c.nnn.iln in
from their allegiance to fJrc.it lSr'MIn
file trial, 1..-.. ...i. i. ... .
". ."' " " een I.llien
V2 & r''?,, . "' -a .. no
hw "' "
i ! . A t tortiev-i leneral t ien
I that ltalley, vino was b.o , ,
explained
n Dtlbl 11,
jouieil the Hoval Irish
titles In iini
nnd Hfter serving out lit. teim In India
was honorably discharged He wns tailed
.is a reservist at the outbreak of thn w-.ir
and was 111 the tbv t-xpt ititinuarv
totce whli h Innded In Fran.-e The rter'.
mans captured him ill Septeinaer Kill
The Altoiney.Cener.il Mated that
H. ulev had made a stateiiKnt explain
ing Casement's manner In inlliifnclng th
Irish misoners. The soldier was one o'
11 f.umbtr w no had been taken ftnm
various pilsons In 1 ici many and placed
In one at Limbing Ht-re i'.iimiii wen'
ami made nihil esses, iiiging them 'o
break tin t oaths of allegiani.- and sup
port him In his e xpeditinii to Inland,
I'roinlseil Trip lii I iilleil sii,.,.
V'l'ord.ng to the piose. utor. Casemen.
who de-i-rlbeil himself an the org.inl7.e--of
tlie lush Volimteits, .issuivil the
pi. sonits that 11 ileiman vi. lory In 'be
war would mean everv thing for Ireland
He promised them that If lhe Joined a
biltfide w'li.h he was tr.vlng to oigani7.e
they would be s.nt to llerlln as the
guests, instead of the prisoners, of til
liftman (lov el niin-iit. lie di . .ari-d that
If Cerniany won a ntval vuiory he would
I. ave the Irish brigade landed In Ireland
to free her fiom Kngland If Herm.mv
s. mild i.isi the war he promised each
man from tin tn t:o (?'" to JIOO) mil
a flic pass.me to the I'lllleil States,
1 Hiring this rental Sli i;..ger s;lt hi
Hie do. 1, with b s baud mi b s ,'dn. 1
casiofiall.v stroking his be ml m looking
lit tin- Magistrate II -p'ied hu'
slight tllinlloll win 11 the Attol ney-l!cn-etnl
said
"This is the plan in'ici.ied In 1015 h-tin-
man who ,n 1111 was begc'r.g Sir
l.'d-l.llil lilfV to lOllVf.V lo I'll- IClllg lis
ibcp aiUfiiat!oi) of tlie lion..r of knight
bond which had just 1 11 eoiifutcil oil
linn "
The plose.-tiloi staled fmtlier lll.lt
Cast-mint's ofi't r was treated w'th con
tempt and derision b mo-i of the Irlh
piiMuieis, s.r linger sni'le.l quietly and
shot a t.iamt- towntd b.i. fellow pnsnner
Sill-Kfl. Cllst-lllt-HI In I'llt-l-,
The Vt'ui ne -(lent r.r. t.n.l tn.it th
men whom Cisenient did sit, 1 ed In win
llllg over were set flee, l-ee-.v.il re
wauls and were suppl'eil with grren tlm
forms He s.inl that one Irish tirlsoner
stunk Casement in the fan- when he
was asked to Join the bilgade llalle.v
one of the tlrst to Join, was mail,; an
nlll.'f.' b Casement.
Tile Attol liey-l lent t.ll thin o.l" lien
the illeged uiachlnatlotis of ,i- Koger
in llcrlin. In- trip to Tialei ami his
landing Hole on ilond I'lilav with
llailev ami Mnuteith, who is still st lib
eriv lie told of tb" sinking of a Oil
man ship with 211.111111 iltlt-s otf Tiatet-
Cascineiit s atn-st look pla. e at .1 pour
known as .MeKiuti.i's Fort. Win- t ilieii
Into I'listud.i In- said be win I! ''hard
.Morton an autlmi. of Hie klnghamshlie
He was tn limp a Piper t' till .Illllll K
a code on wh'ii was written
' wait fuithsr In-1 rn Hons llavn
deiiiled to st, 1,1 I'm, io i' .nun. ,11 it mo
and lilies ate needeil Si ml .in.iiaei
ship '
The Mini ln-y-iiellfl.il II. 1" .ut a
stale mem which, he said, had been lll.ltb
h Italic),. In 11 the soblii-i staled Ilia
at Casement's siiggeslion he ! in-d t 1
1 1 i 1 bllgllde hoping lo get en- of lift
111. my. lie uslli-il the Hermi'i l-'oreici
1 illlce, the snliller said, and then It tv
told to get icady to leave, ami ' Wit
'like 1 on boird the sujiiiijiiiiie I ''
ll.l.bo .ii.'ordlng 'o the t; v--ll'
et.ll. st.ited he h.nl le.ll'n,l--iP! ' a spia
i.soii Inn r w in t- '. . p I ii iV'fn a
point lie ir Tr.ilee H onlplii. d" O.inO
Mill's' and sew-i.il 01 ,!i," rounds ol am
iiiuniiion, and was il inir-e,l ,1 .1,11111011
ship Ten mi lone gui.s vvej-ti" sbonril
1 -1 . 1 v tor a ". " . as well asftji- bniieli4
The pt-isie ei farther stated bo II. ul 4frn I
Dublin 1 .isl'. was to be i.ndcil f )
't otnev Head, In I eOe wingH,e'ev!
d- ii " ,i d lh.1t on April "I the tout
lUneoel iMitollina Ihe tie igllbni hooil of
iiT ilec s ghled 1 suspicious ship flung
Conlimf, 0,i rhUtl Pay.
