I
V ' 1
! Sf'ii tmrtm Sf^vi? fl 'zanim?
Tfmpiralure? for hours . ^BT H Wf H B H g\ H H
endinc 2 P.m.: Hichest. S3, at 4-30 p m. JU W J 9? ft '
TSiWifS^.r HbtIIV A^A lA * AAA ^IrA'U'Jr^ ^
- i I - I ^ J ^ ^ / I r 7 ^ fiwora Wet Circulation. Moatk of April.
CLOSING NEW YORK STOCKS PAGE 30. ^ ^ ^ *?* *>??T Areru?. 8X?l?i Sunday. 5M7A
* i * ' .
No. 20.320. WASHINGTON, D. C., TUESDAY, MAY 16. 1916-TWENTY-FOUR PAGES. ** ONE CENT.
- ? ?????? "? ? " i " ~
POINT IS CONCEDED
BY BANK'S COUNSEL;
. Defense Admits Lewis Johnson
& Co. Books Have Account
in Name of Riggs.
ACTION IS TO FACILITATE
PROGRESS OF THE TRIAL
Believed Defense Will Try to Prove j
No Benefit or Loss Resulted f rom
Any Transactions.
The defense in the Riggs Bank case.
!n order to facilitate the progress of the
trial, today conceded that there is an
account in the nafne of the Riggs National
Bank on the books of the defunct
stock and bond brokerage firm
of Lewis Johnson & Co.. when the trial
was resumed in Criminal Court No. 1
before Justice Siddons and a jury.
Shortly thereafter, during an argument
between counsel. Mr. Hogan. one
of the bank's representatives, declared
that there is a wfde difference between
an account having existed on the
Johnson books in the name of the
bank and entries in such an account
which purport to show that the bank
dealt in stocks and bonds for itself.
From these developments in the celebrated
case, and the testimony of one
witness, it was apparent that the defense
will bend its energies to trying
to prove that the bank did not benefit
or lose by any transactions in stocks
and bonds which were made bv Lewis
Johnson & Co. in its name, and that
the bank did not. in fact, deal in any
stocks and bonds for itself, no matter
how the account of Lewis Johnson &
Co. was kept.
Bought Stock Through Bank.
One witness gave testimony along
this line this morning?Honora J. Hoflinger
of 131 Maryland avenue north
east, sne was suopoenaeu oy me gov- j
ernment. with a number of other wit- j
nesses, to testify as to purchases and
sales of stocks and bonds through the
bank, and she testified that she did
purchase July 23. 1913, through the
Biggs Bank, ten shares of United
States Steel common.
She had been unable to find the correspondence
with the bank in regard
to the transaction, she said.
After her testimony on direct eximJnation.
Mr. O'Ponaghue of counsel for
the bank asked her:
"Tou paid the bank the $507.25 for
this stock?"
"Yes. sir." w^s the answer, and she
^as excused.
It is expected that other witnesses
*rill be put on the stand to testify for
the government as to purchases of
etocks and bonds through the bank.
The government has issued -subpoenas
for the following persons for this
purpose, with the requirement that
documents be brought into court:
All Not Yet Served.
A L. Day. 3150 Highland avenue:
Maj. W. A. Mercer, War Department;
Frederick C. Babcock, Wyoming .apartments:
Mamie R. Harrison. 2129 Florida
avenue: Chauncey B. Baker, 1912
Sunderland place: George B. Duncan, j
22b 17th street northwest: Dr. Bernard!
L Hardin. 1311 Connecticut avenue.
The first four, it was said today, have !
not yet been served with the subpoenas. !
Milton F. Ailes. one of the vice presl- ,
dents of the bank, was on the witness :
stand today. He was asked to identify
various books which were placed in
evidence and entries in them, but could
not identify specific entries. f?ne set of
books was a set of memorandum stock
and bond order books, in which there
were many entries in the handwritings
of William J. Flather. Henry H. Flather
and Edwin D. Flather. the latter the
exchange teller of the bank. Mr. Ailes
testified that he had nothing to do with
the books; that the handwriting of the
three Flatters is very similar.
Handled Little Local Business. ^
Mr. Hogan of counsel for the defense
brought out under a cross-examination
that Mr. Ailes' duties in connection
with the Riggs Bank have been largely
in connection with the handling of the
out-of-town business of the bank. Mr.
Ailes testified that he has had very
little to do with the local business af.
fairs of the hank, and no connection
with th?- so-called Glover-FlatherVI
at her accounts, in which records of
stock and bond sales and purchases !
were kept.
Spitfire arguments bet ween counsel ,
tod a ; again w>rt* a feature of the trial.
Considerable discussion arose over a j
j"g t i?in Mr H"gan asked Mr Aiies.
which was. in effect. "If a person game
lrto the bank and jr^ve William I
F1 ather ??r Henry Flather or Mr. i
Glover an order to buy stock was not j
that order entered in the books?"? i
meaning the books upon which Mr. j
A les' ?-?4?rn:nat ion was conducted
Mr Archer of counsel for the govern- ,
rr^nt objected, and Justice Siddon<? j
h*ard an argument, which, on th<* part j
of the government, was to the effect j
that Mr. Ailes could n??t be asked such j
questions, inasmuch as he had been j
called to the stand merely to identify j
entries if possible. Mr. ilogan. speak- i
Ing for the defense, declared that it
vas not within the province of gov- !
eminent counsel to offer a book or a ?
paper to a witness and ask him ques- I
tioD8 about, entries therein jor thereon
without giving the defense an oppor- j
tunitv. also, to ask questions fur- ;
rounding the circumstances of such
en* r'es.
Mr Ailes already had answered "yes"
t*> the question asked him. meaning that
it vas the custom for orders for stocks
arid bonds orders to be entered in the
books, and Justice Siddons ruled
As the answer is in. 1 will let it stand." ;
Objects to Use of Books.
Mr Stan? hfield objected to the use of j
the books, declaring there was nothing in I
evidence to show that either Mr. 'Hover j
or either of the Messrs Klather had ever .
made any entries in them. Justice Sid- !
<lons overruled him.
H The trial began this morning with the
appearance on the stand of \V. Morris {
bamroond, to identify a large number of !
H tales and purchase slips for stocks and
bonds. It is said there are no less than ;
individual cases of such purchases arid
:-xles to l>e identified. each of which conH
rumed three, and a half minutes of time.
A calculation made informally in the
courtroom developed the fact that if all
the 'J32 sets of paper* are individually
^B identified tec flays of time will be con^B
turned in doing so. with the sessions of
HI court footing up about four and a half
H^ hours a day.
H Lammond on Stand Yesterday.
The examination of Mr. Lammond be- i
yan yesterday afternoon. He said he j
^^^Bhad been a bookkeeper for and now is
^^Lne of the trustees of the bankrupt I
A.*-:.
brokerage firm of Lewis Johnson & Co. I
Lammond identified the transcript of L
the account kept on the books of Lewis I
Johnson <'o. in the name of the Riggs
National Bank, and described some of
the machinery by which stock transactions
were conducted by the brokerage
firm.
Effort of the prosecution to bring
out by Lammond's testimony that there
had been a telephone in the Riggs
Bank connected with the brokerage office
was unsuccessful. Justice Siddons p
constantly overruled objections by the r
bank's counsel to questions by the government
attorneys.
One important witness at yesterday
afternoon's session of the trial was
Miss Bessie B. Sheehy. notary public
and stenographer in the office of Frank
J. Hogan of counsel for the bank. As a
notary public she asknowledged the
signatures of Mr. Clover and the
Messrs. Flather to the affidavit that the p
bank had never bought nor sold stock
nor sold stock short through the firm
of Lewis Johnson Co. She testified
that the affidavit was dictated to her
by Mr. Hogan after the adjournment of
court May 19. 1915, there being no one
else present, that later that evening r*
William J. Flather came to Mr. Hogan's ^
office, and. with only Mr. Hogan and
Miss Sheehy present, he signed and
swore to the statement; that on the
following morning Mr. <Mover came to
the office, and in the presence only of
Miss Sheehy and Mr. Hogan Mr. Glover
signed and swore to the statement, and
that later the same morning Henry H.
Flather swore to and signed it in the x
presence only of Mr. Hogan and Miss
Sheehy. She testitied that no change
was made in the affidavit. bi
After Miss Sheehy's testimony Mr.
Stanchfield. addressing the court, said:
"In law there is no such crime as
joint perjury." o!
URGESTHEBALLOT i
rnn n n nroinniTO n
ruKu.u.Kt5iutnu
ul
e^
Senator Pomerene. in Committee
Report, Favors Passage "
of Delegate Bill.
tc
LIKENS RULE OF DISTRICT
TO AUTOCRACY OF RUSSIA ?
di
to
Cites Population Exceeding That of n?
Six States Has No Voice in Its ^
Own Government.
>i
?- ? n,
"The control of the czar of all the ^
Russias over his subjects is not mnro
complete than is the jurisdiction of our ^
government over the people of the District
of Columbia," said Senator I'om- ^
erene of Ohio in his report from the re
Senate District committee favoring the lo
passage of the Poindexter District del- st
egate bill. This bill, which went to ]
the Senate calendar yesterday after- ol
noon, provides for the election of deleu,
gate to represent the District in the at
House, with a voice in debate, but with d<
no vote.
"The writer only regrets that the bill n"
does not go further," says Senator Pom- V(
erene at another place m his report.
The report contains a brief "history
of legislation for ami the government
of the District of Columbia and then
continues:
Deserving- of the Ballot. ir
"While sound governmental policy m
would seem to suggest that the national
government should have control
of the District rather than that the Dis- Jj
trict should have control of the government
buildings and property within h
the * Districts we believe there is no
valid reg?/>rj why the people of the Dis- tj
trict should not have some voice in the 1*
national government, as well as those
who are living outside of the District a!
and in other sections of the country. ri'
The United States is a representative NV
government. la
"Hut here in the District of Columbia
in the capital of our country, in the
shadow of the very dome of the Capitol
itself, where our chief executive lives.
and where sit the greatest court in the {"e
world and the two branches of Con- ^
gress, controlling the affairs and the
destinies of a hundred millions of peo- r"
I?le. live nearlv 400.000 Amerirnri fit I.
zeris, whose life, whose liberty andj^a
whose property are under the absolute
control of the executive, the Congress!
and the judiciary, without any right to I
vote or to participate in the making or j
administration of the laws under ; hi
which they live and move and have i ol
their being. i n,
"More American citizens Jive in the i
District of Columbia than in any one!0*
of the stares of Nevada, Wyoming, w
Delaware, Arizona, Idaho or New Mexi- '
oo. yet senators and representatives j
have waxed eloquent in their demands i
that territories subject to the control j b<
of the federal government shall have ; al
statehood and that our foreign pos- ;
sessions may have independence sojtt
that they "may work out their own des- j ti
tinies. Is it possible that a Congress ! qi
of a sovereign people will continue to^tl
insist, as they have insisted, that all j n<
the people of our island possessions j t.l
shall have a voice in their own govern- [
m. nt and ye* fWrv this sacred light toir?
the nearly 400,000 people who live m
within the District of Columbia? r<
ti
Other Capitals Represented. g
"Argentine, Rrazil and Mexico have u*
copied our Constitution and form of j m
government. They have federal dls- j
ti n ts for their respective capitals sim- j
ilar to '.he District of Columbia, hut I ^
Wa nunnlc in thfiufc Hist rinl o u>-a ...
the righ,t of representation in Congress.
I
"It is in no sense a disrespeci to the
members of either house of Congress i
to say that they have a more personal ri
interest in the affairs of their respec- ' .1
live states or districts than they have;
in the District of Columbia. As a con- ! v
sequence, there is not that personal I F'
touch between the District and the J j>
Congress that exists between the |
Congress and the people of the several | ''
states or districts. ; K
The pending measure, if passed, t h
gives to the citizens *>f the District only |
the right to elect a delegate to the j
House of Kepresentatives. who may. on a
the floor, represent its crtlzens and pre- |
sent their cause without the right to j g
vote, It gives them only the same right j s
in national legislation that th?- people |
living in the Territory of Alaska now : ?
have. If the people of Alaska have the j 11
right to be thus represented, by what i <1
process of reasoning can the people of s,
the District he denied the right? Are
they less patriotic or less intelligent n
than the people of Alaska or the people
of our own states'' Have they ho much
leys of civic pride that they do not deserve
to share 111 working out the polit- g
ical destinies of a great people in which
they are so much interested and a part ti
! of which they are? May we "ask those
who oppose this legislation, are they
willing to have laws enacted for their
own constituents which will shear
them of their political status and leave
j them with no greater share in their '
I government, local or national, than the "
people of this District now have? How rr
many of them are willing to say? jj
"We will consent that our states or t,
our district shall he controlled bj' a IT
(Cuutmued on SecuuilTisiTj ~ 1.
IUGHES-FAIRBANKS
SLATESUGGESTED
'latform?Anything Progressives
Want Except Recall of
Judges and Referendum.
OLITICAL PROPHETS
BUSY AT THE CAPITOL
ther Favorite Sons Will Have Their j
Innings With Seers Before Republican
Convention.
"For President?Charles E. Hughes of
ew York."
"For Vice President?Charles W. Fairinks
of Indiana."
"Platform?Almost anything the proressives
may suggest, barring recall
' judges and initiative and referenjin."
In the past few days there has been
good deal of talk among prominent reublicans
at the Capitol and elsewhere
rer this suggested combination for the
>ming republican national convention
consider.
Of course, it is gossip, tentative and
' the hour, subject, like railroad schedes,
to change without notice. How,er.
at this stage of the proceedings
/erything in connection with the conist
for the presidential nomination is
5 changeable as a chameleon. These
ere "Hughes and Fairbanks days";
sxt may be "Root and Cummins days,"
"Weeks and Burton days," or "Burin
and Weeks" days and so on.
Favorite Sons' Friends Demur.
Naturally the first suggested < >mbinaon
is scoffed at by the supporters of
ie favorite sons and other avowed candates,
but is said by many republicans !
"sound good" to them. Anyhow, the
?utral chroniclers of politics day by day
ive to take note of the talk and regter
it.
That there has been a distinct drift to
r. Justice Hughes in the past week is ?
>t denied by any one. The impetus given a
e Hughes movement by those ? intent |j
ion blanketing Col. Roosevelt has got I]
>yond control, and the Hughes boom has |
icome to them a political Frankenstein.
It is said by persons of knowledge that
ie ranks of the avowed candidates are
>nevoombed with delegates who are
ady to swing to Hughes the moment he
oms up with a formidable showing of
rength.
Intimation that some of the old guard
:>osses" do not want Hughes because i
[ their distrust of his being an "or- q
anizacion man" is said to have stim- O
lated interest in him in the country
large. With nearly 600 uninstructed
?legates in the convention, the influxes
of the old-time bosses, it is said.
likely to be minimized to an extent
&ver witnessed in a republican con?ntion
by this generation.
Third Ballot Critical Point.
y ... UA??V,t nnw tV.o* t V. i rrl K-> 1 _ t*
>t will be the critical point in the vot- cc
lg. The first ballot will be compli- si
lentary and partially deluding. On the cc
?oond ballot the candidates will show hi
ieir actual strength. Then there la
kelv to he a recess while the delega- w
ons confer. Then the tug of war as ti
ich candidate will seek support upon p
is individual cjaims and showing of
rength. v<
And here arises a question the policians
are asking: Who will take the
adership of the floating Hughes senment?
For that matter, it is further
?ked: Who will place Mr. Hughes in rc
omination, who will second, and by li
hat authority will they speak? There m
; not any Hughes manager so far, for
one should bob up. it is argued. ' R
Lr. Justice Hughes would disavow him. j is
It is the most unusual situation, the h,
diticians say, that has ever arisen in
>publican politics. "Dark horses" fi
ive dashed into the-arena in the past. [Jj
jt they had sponsors. Mr. Hughes is .
?ither a recognized candidate nor dark '
>rse. but very much in the running in ' 1
i<t. tj
Fairbanks for Second Place, i
The talk of Fairbanks for second
ace is quite general. First, on account
r his admitted popularity and recog- N
ized strength, and. second, on account
: the importance of carrying Indiana,
here two United .States senators are H
> be elected and the delegation in the ^
ouse sought to be redeemed. It is j ^
i?lieved Mr. Fairbanks would accept, 1
rter Mr. Hughes had been nominated j
"\W>u)d Col. Roosevelt take them?" is'
le next question asked by the policians.
To that the answer most fre- ^
uently heard is, "Take them? Why, if I rr
1 e colonel thought they were imrni- ' j,
ent he would lead the procession to
iem." S
The suggestion as to the platform a
'presents current opinion among n
any republicans, namely, that if the
igulars he allowed to nominate a n
rket which both they and the proressives
can support, the progressives ^
in have pretty much their own way H
ith the platform. This idea is also h
dvanced by the Root boomers. g
It is generally conceded that the re- n
ublican platform to be framed at ("hijgo
w: 1) be the most progressive doculent
ever written by the rennhluan
arty.
nterest in Pennsylvania Primaries. v
Interest today centers in the primaics
being- held in Pennsylvania for h
Te selection of delegates to the con- ^
ention. It is a fight between Senator e)
enrose and Gov. Brumbaugh, the ^
ennsylvania political "sharps" bet- u
jig on l-'enrose. His slate -of dele- P
ates are uninstructed. and Brum- tl
augh's are for Brumbaugh, to be j a
urned over to Koosevelt, it is gener- ?
lly believed. '/1
"What will Penrose do with his deleates
if he wins?" was asked a Penn- a
ylvanian today. ,c
"Well, you know the old story about ia
enator Penrose walking into a meet- t'j
ig of the state central committee one ^
ay. As he entered the room converation
ceased.
'I suppose you were talking about
ie?" J=aid the senator.
" 'Yes '
" 'Well, what were you saying?' L
We said we thought you ought to
et married.'
''All right , whom does the organizalon
recommend?'" a
May Become Vice Chancellor. "
BERLIN- May 15. via London. May tl
5. Dr. Karl Helfferich, the present N
linister of finance and the youngest
lember ,of the cabinet, is the most f,
kely candidate for the post of minis- ^
er of the interior and vice chancellor,
lade vacaiw by the resignation ot Dr. a
leitwck. _ . * 11
3
1
>
\,\. ; XX IP/'
A*
WMiM
U
aay ask reversal "
of voteomrublee
enate Friends of Federal Appointee
Consider Request
for Reconsideration.
Reconsideration of the vote by which
le .Senate late yesterday refused to I
infirm George Rublee of New Hamp- I
lire as a member of the federal trade |j
>mmission was discussed as a possi- | i
lity today by supporters of the n'om'i- j
?e. Senator Hollis of New Hampshire,
ho. led the fight in behalf of confirma- j
on, is in a position to move for re>nsideration,
since he changed his
?te in order that he might do so.
Victory for Senator Gallinger.
The rejection of the nomination was
igarded as a victory for Senator Galnger
of New Hampshire, who tpr alost
a year and a half has fought Mr. |
ublee in the face of vigorous admin- J,
tration support on the ground thatj'
e was "personally obnoxious" to him. j;
he vote stood rift to 42 against con- j \
rmation. Final action came after a I
tter debate, featured by heated ex- |i
langes between Senators La Follette |t
id Gallinger.
Unless the Senate reconsiders its ac- i
on. Mr. Rublee, who has been Serving j
s a member of the commission ever
nee its creation, will not only lose his ?
nsition, but his salary as well. I
Republicans who voted for confirmaon
were: Clapp, Kenyon, La Follette,
orris and Poindexter.
Democrats voted against conrmation
xFere Bankhead, Broussard, I
hamberlain, Clarke of Arkansas, .
lardwick. Martin, Martine, O'Gorman, i '
teed. 'Saulsbury, Smith of Georgia, ' .
mith of South Carolina, Underwood '
id Vardaman.
Classed as a Progressive.
Mr. Rublee, regarded as a progressive,
'as first, nominated to ihe trade com- '
lission for a term of three years by
resident Wilson in February, 1915.
enator Gallinger at once opposed him ^
nd a hearing was held by a subcomlittee
of the interstate commerce comlittee.
I
The committee eventually reported
ie nomination favorably, but a vote in
le Senate was withheld until t'ongress
- J - Tlu.n the Preuirlen t
ave Mr. Rubles a recess appointment,!
Kturning his nomination to the Senate
i December.
Effect of Rejection Considered.
The Senate's rejection of President
,'ilson's nomination of Oeorpe Rublee
? the federal trade commission, in the
pinion of administration officials who
ave looked into the law, will not af?ct
Mr. Mublee's status until the pres- ,
nt session of Congress ends. Court
ecisions and an opinion by the At- :
>rney General in lS.lft are being cited l
> give weight to this view.
It. even is possible, some hold, for
ip President to give another recess
ppointment to Mr. Rublee at the end
r the present session, although the
ommlssioner could draw no pay for J
is services. I
Mr. Rublee was at his office today |
nd there were no signs that he would I
:ave the post. Meanwhile the adminoration
was gathering efforts to get j
to rejection reconsidered and have!*
is nomination confirmed. j
APPAM CASE NEARS END. j
losing Arguments Delivered Today j
in Case of Captured Steamer.
NORFOLK. Va? May 16.?The closing I
rgument for the German government!
i the case Involving the ownership of
he prize ship Appam was delivered
lis morning by Robert M. Hughes of
'orfolk.
Frederick Coudert of New York closes
or the former owners, the British and
.frican Steam Navigation Company,
nd Judge Waddlll will take the mater
under advisement, . . A g
HOUSE TAKES UP 1
THE SHIPPING BILL
General Debate Limited to | J
Five Hours?Vote Friday
Night.
-T
|
Under a rule limiting general debate |
to five hours and providing for a final j T
vote. Friday night, the House today be- \ f
?an consideration of the administration ! f
shipping bill. The way had been cleared i t
for work on the bill by the House when J V
it finally disposed of the rural credits 11
measure. i I
House democratic leaders apparently I r
are confident of the passage of the ! t
ship bill. In addition to the united . e
support of their own party for the
measure they are understood to count t
upon the votes of several republicans.
Incorporation of a provision setting a t
time limit on government operation t
r>f vessels is believed to have won a
many over to the bill.
Chairman Alexander of the marine s
committee opened the speaking for the c
oi 11. Democratic Leader Kitchin, who j v
md n/-.? Vtt.on fnuntpfl anmn^ t hf- hill's i -
supporters, urged the House to pass . *
he rule for its consideration. *
"Democrats, we have a majority in ?
his House and we are responsible for '
he legislation it passes," he shouted.
"The time is come for us to get down
to work and pass our legislative program
and we are going to <lo it. We
will end the filibustering on the other
aide. We will pass this bill, appro- i 1
l?riation bills and other important {a
measures and be ready to adjourn by
July 20 if you will do your duty."
Tremendous applause greeted Kitchin's ! h
prediction of an early adjournment. | f
The vote on the previous question as- jc
suring adoption of the rule was 19^ \ f
to 144. Representatives Miller of Pennsylvania
and James of Michigan, re- I
publicans, voted with the democrats. |
SIGNS PREPAREDNESS BILLS. | 'v
Gov. Whitman Overrides Wishes of j?
Various Peace Organizations. j i
AI.RANT, X. V.. May 11.?Five pre- | ?
Taredness measures became law to- 1
lay with the signature of Gov. Whit- '
man. He signed them after a public
Tearing, at which man and woman representatives
of peace organizations T
utrono-lv ft r> n rt ?c a H much n f tho UuioU >
tion.
The governor later is expected to
sign the appropriation of $500,0ftf) for
the mobilization this summer, or when- ! p
ever an emergency exists, of all the ; ~
state troops. .'
The measures just signed are: '
The Welsh-Slater bill authorizing thejs
board of regents to inaugurate a course | t;
of cumpulsory physical training for all j
public and private school pupils more i
than eight years old. I y
The Welsh-Slater bill, a companion 'p
measure, providing" for the compulsory |p
military training of all male youths of I ^
the state between sixteen and nineteen 1 '
rears of age, except those regularly em- J
;)ioved as a means of livelihood. J'
The Stivers hill authorizing the gov- I
ernor to order an enrollment of all
male citizens between eighteen and for- i
ty-ftve. * i .
Two Stivers bills authorizing a reor-i s.
ganization of the naval militia andjL
a mending the military law generally,
with a view to increasing the number
and efficiency of the active defense ]
forces.
DAY IN CONGRESS.
- - g
.Senate: Ii
Met at noon. o
Army reorganization conference Preport
submitted. tc
Debated Kenyon resolution for T
open executive' sessions for consideration
of nominations.
Immigration .bill amended to t:
meet protest of Japanese govern- tl
ment. G.
House: (
Met at 11 a.m.
Debate begun on government ti
shipping bill. w
. L-. el
iaar
IN HER SUIT FOR PAY
lustice Stafford Renders Judgment
in Test Case of Detailed
Teacher.
Justice Stafford of the District Suireme
Court today rendered judgment
or $765, with interest for six years, in
avor of Miss Genevieve Marsh against
he District of Columbia, in her suit
mown as the "detailed teacher" case,
'he action was made a test case by the
-Ugh School Teachers' Association in
>rder to procure a court decision as to
he rate of pay to which detailed teachirs
are entitled.
Miss Marsh's claim was based upon
h*1 fact that she had declined a conract
at $1,200 a year to continue to
each at Montclair, N. J., in order to
iccept a position in the local high
chools, which she had expected would
arrv a salary at the rate prescribed
>y the act of June 20, 1906, that is.
1.800 a year. She was, however, ap>ointed
nominally as a teacher in the
ighth grade and at a salary of only
950, and was detailed to teach in the
ligh schools.
Performed High School Service.
Pursuant to this appointment and deail
she ?actually performed services as
. high school teacher for nine months
tefore being put on the rolls as a high
chool teacher at what she claims was
ler proper rate of salary. The amount
laimed was the difference in the rate ,
or ter. months.
Justice Stafford has held that she is j
ntitled to the additional pay. The 1
district of Columbia has noted an ap- j
?ea!. and the case will go to the Court
f Appeals for final decision.
Tne case was argued by Paul E. Lesh |
f the firm of Wilson, Huidekoper & !
?esh, on behalf of Miss Marsh and the j
ligh School Teachers' Association, and
y Assistant Corporation Counsel Robrt
I,. Williams, for the District of Coumbia.
GERMAN FLEET IS AT SEA.
teported to Have Sailed From Kiel
for Russian Port of Riga.
LONDON, May 16.?A dispatch to the
iaily Mail from Copenhagen says that
lMiire German fleet which has left
[iel for Riga includes the new battlehip
Hindenburg and several other batleships
of the larger type.
COPENHAGEN, via London. May 16.?
L dispatch to the Aftenbladet from
tothenburg. Sweden, says that a large
German fleet, which was outside of
lothenhurg Saturday, with the object
f capturing a British steamer about
r> sail for England, was forced to reire
Sunday by the appearance of Brit=
h submarines. The British steamer
hen sailed.
The German warships, however, the
ispatch adds, captured four Swedish
teamers. and took them to German
arbors.
KING DUYTAN TO BE DEPOSED.
i"igurehead Ruler of Annam Charged
With Complicity in Riots.
SHANGHAI. May IB.?The governor
eneral tit Hanoi, capital of French
ido-China. has ordered King Duytan
f Annam deposed on charges of comlicity
in riots which occurred In the
iwns of Quangngai and Quangnan.
he riots were speedily suppressed.
The King of Annam has been praccall.v
a figurehead since 1907, when
ie French established a protectorate
ver the country similar to that mainlined
by the British in Egypt. Sevral
uprisings against French rule
ave occurred in Indo-China within
ie last three years and martial law
/as proclaimed throughout the greatr
part'Of -the territory last month.
SIR ROGER'S TRIAL
IS LONDONMAGNET
Great Crowds Again Flock to
the Bow Street Police
Station. I
ACCUSED IRISH BARONET
FACES COURT SMILINGLY
Witnesses Identify Him as One of
Men Landed by German
Submarine.
LONDON*. May 16.?For hours this
morning; crowds of peopl# stood in line
around Bow street police station waiting;
for the resumption of the arraignment
of Sir Roger Casement on charges
r^ high treason in connection with the
Sinn Fein rebellion.
The little courtroom was crowded
within Ave minutes after the doors
were opened, and many hundreds of
men and women were unable to obtain
admission.
There was some speculation today as
to whether Casement's lawyers would |
place him on the stand at his preliminary
hearing. It is generally believed
that this will not be done. His lawyers
refuse to state whether they will consider
such a step.
Irish Girl on Stand.
The first witness of the day.
Mary Gorman, a typical Irish girl,
who was the first witness to identify
Casement as one of the men who
landed from the German submarine at
Tralee. She testified she saw three
then passing a farmyard gate early
Good Friday morning. She was asked
by A. H. Bodkin for the prosecution
whether she could identify any of the
three men. She replied:
"Yes, sir," and pointed to Casement.
The prisoner bowed his head arui
scribbled more diligently than ever on
the pad of paper.
A touch of humor was added when
Mary Gorman told her story of meeting
Casement and his two companions as they
were leaving the beach. She talked in a
brogue so broad that it was necessary
to ask her to write the words before they
could be understood. This she did
smilingly. After identifying Casement
she told how she had seen him later in
the day in the custody of a constable.
She did not recognize Bailey.
Arrested Sir Roger.
At this point the attorney general. Sir
Frederick Smith, took a hand in the proceedings.
He conducted the examination
of Sergeant John Hearne of the Royal
Irish constabulary, who was summoned
by McCarthy when he found the boat. It
was Sergt. Hearne who arrested Casement
near Tralee.
The sergeant said that, accompanied
by Sergt. Riley, he searched the country
round and at length found in the
old fort "A man?the prisoner in the
dock?the tall man. Casement." The
sergeant continued:
"I asked him who he was. He said
his name was Richard Morton, that his
home was at Denham, Bucks; that he
was an author and that he had written
a book on the life of St. Brendan."
Hearne asked the prisoner whence he
had come and he replied Dublin. To a
further question he said he had no
passport.
Artemus Jones, or counsel for the de- 1
fen6e, asked Hearne whether he had seen
Sergt. Riley take from Casement a docu- i
ment giving an account of his movements
in Germany.
Hearne replied "No, but there was a
small paper, written in a foreign language,
that was taken from Casement."
Objected to Being Questioned.
In the cross-examination of Hearne it
was disclosed that Casement had objected
strongly to being questioned and did not
submit until one of the constables leveled
a rifle at him. On the way to a station
he dropped a roll of papers, which
the police recovered.
The star witness from the standpoint
of numar. interest was Martin Collins,
a farmer's lad of twelve years, who
was called to identify Casement as one
of the men arrested near Tralee. Mar- !
tin, a handsome little chap with a rich I
Irish brogue, told with evident pride I
how he had driven Casement and a con- I
stable for several miles when the pris- j
oner was being taken to headquarter!#!
Much of the time he was testifying the '
boy kept his eyes on Casement, and j
there was no hesitation on his part as !
he declared the man in the dock was '
the one he had driven in his cart. i
Among the spectators today were i
j Michael Flavin, nationalist member of
i the house of commons, whose borne is
at Tralee, and a number of friends of
I Casement, including several women.
Found Collapsible Boat.
| John McCarthy, a farmer of Currahane.
County Kerry, told of finding
the collapsible boat in which Casement, (
Bailey and a man named Monteith,
who is still at large, landed at Tralee. '
McCarthy said he pulled it ashore and ,
found a dagger and a tin box. On his i
way home he met his children, who '
were playing with three revolvers j
they had found near Ihe shore. 1
Other witnesses from the same dis- J
trict told of having seen signal lights ,
at sea on the evening before Good Fri- ;
. I
day. ,
After the hearing had been in progress
for some time Casement turned
his attention from the testimony to
the writing of a long statement. While
thus engaged he showed marked emotion
for the first time since the hear- .
ing began. Whatever was the nature
of his thoughts, they were such that s
thev moved him to tears. He wept (
quietly as he worked away with his
pencil. It was a striking change from
the smiling and self-confident man of 1
a short time before. a
Ulstermen Are Unwilling
i
to Accept Asquith's Plan j?
Tor an irisn uovernment ;
BELFAST. May 16.?Stubborn disin- d
clinatton to accept anything In the way A
of a government which might imply the ^
future subjection of Ulster to home rule ^
was evident yesterday on the occasion t
of Premier Asquith's visit to Belfast. h
which lasted only a few hours. So far ?
as can be learned, the premier's con^- <j
ference with a large body of representative
Ulstermen were disappointing. [
It is understood that the question of
the general disarmament of forces in
Ireland not authorized by the government
was discussed, and. although those
present were pledged to secrecy, it is
rumored that cold water had been
thrown on the proposal. The discussion
was very full and frank, but it is t
* (Continued on-Twentieth-Pa ?
DUMA TO SHOW
HIS POWER BEFORE
U. S. QUITS MEXICO
Gen. Scott Reports Result of
El Paso Conference to Secretary
Baker.
SAYS OBREGON AGREED
TO POLICE MOUNTAINS
Also Promised to Occupy Parral District.
Patrol Border and Catch
Glenn Springs Raiders.
TO STOP FURTHER INCURSIONS
War Minister Further Contracted
Not to Send Large Force Into
Sonora by Pulpit Pass in
Pershing's 'Rear.
The net result of the military
conferences at El l'aso as reported
today bv Maj. Gen. Scott
to Secretary Baker, has been to
convince the Carranza government
that the United States has
no other purpose in its operations
in northern Mexico than to stamp
out brigandage, and, as a consequence,
there exists substantially
an unwritten understanding the
Carranza forces shall endeavor to
demonstrate their ability to
handle the situation as the necessary
first step toward withdrawal
of the American punitive expedition.
Gen. Scott believes Gen. Obregon is
acting: in good faith and that the border
situation is less critical today so
far as the American government is
concerned. >
Secretary Baker laid before President
Wilson and the cabinet the information
brought by Maj. Gen. Scott. After the
cabinet meeting it was reiterated that no
armed intervention was in prospect and
that the situation apparently was improving.
What Gen. Obreg-on Promised.
To carry out his share of the plan*
Gen. Obregon has agreed to occupy
and police the Parral district, scouring
the mountainous region to the west
of that town in search of the remnants
of Villa's followers. He also agreed
to establish a strong patrol line along
the Mexican side of the Big Bend country
to prevent incursions such as that
at Glenn Springs and Boquillas
For that purpose Gen. Obregon has
ordered into those regions 10,000 troops
under Gen.' Trevino. said to be the most
efficient field commander in the Carranza
army. Advices to the War and
State departments indicate that the
movement* are being carried out
promptly. _ , l? ... *
Another,, important element, and one
which American army officers regarded
as most vital to Gen. Pershing's line of
communications, was cleared up by
Gen. Obregon's agreement not to bring
the large force of ("arranza's troops in
Sonora through Pulpit pass into Gen.
Pershing'.-? rear. While the War department
is perfectly satisfied of Gen.
Pershing's" equipment to care for his
force in any circumstances, the possibility
of a large t'arranza forte beinsr
moved to: his rear was regarded with
some eonciern.
On their side Gen. Scott and Gen.
Funston assured (.Jen. Obregon that
precaution would be taken by American
commanders not to dispose their
forces so as to embarrass the operation
of the Mexican troops, and also that
the border patrol on the American side
would be strengthened.
As to Villa himself, neither American
or Mexican officials seem to have
any knowledge of his present whereabouts
or anything positive to show
that he is still alive. Gen. obregon
believes him dead. (Jen. iv*ott reported
that the statement of the Mexican
war minister in that connection was
not made with the idea of impressing
the American officers with an argument
in favor of withdrawal, hut merely
as an expression of an opinion.
The first obstacle encountered by the
American conferees at El Paso was
the necessity of convincing Gen. Obregon
that the expedition after Villa was
not an intervention step. The size and
composition of the force aroused alarm
among Mexican officials, and it was
pointed out to Gen. Scott that it was
not customary for posses in pursuit
of one man to go with field guns and
mountain artillery. The American officers
finally succeeded in persuading
the war minister, however, that the
United States government had no intention
other than its announced purpose
to disperse or capture the bandit
ind end the disturbed conditions along
the border. The understanding as to
what steps would be taken by both
military commanders followed.
Plan for Patroling Border.
A new plan for patroling the border
las been recommended by Gen. Funiton.
He proposed a corps of fortydght
motor cycles, thirty tandem and
iighteen single machines. Secretary
Saker s~id today he would probably
i r.nrnvp thp nlan. Gen. Fiinstnn u-111
nake El Paso the base of operations
or the motor cycle scouts. Use of moor
cycles would enable the patrols to
over much more quickly and more
>ften a longer section of boundary,
articularly in isolated districts, and
J so enable officers to receive reports
nore expeditiously from small outposts
listant from headquarters.
Gen. Pershing reported that Julio
kcosta. one of Villa's aids, was killed
uring the engagement at Ojo Azules
lay 5.
The gunboat Marietta returned yeserday
to Tampico from Tuxpan. where
er commander made an investigation
f reported anti-American sentiment,
le advised the Navy department conitions
there were quiet.
distribution of Troops f
Along Mexican Border "
Begun Today by Funston
SAN ANTONIO. Tex.. May IS.?Disributlon
of troops under the plan of organization
of the border patr^ on
