Xiie Telegraph service of The
Daily Gate City and Constitu­
-Democrat i8 received over
our own leased wire.
tion
VOL. 122. NO. 117.
COLUMBUS, N. M.. May 16.—Fly
teg cavalry detachments today raced
through the foot-hiup west of Rublo
ranch in pursuit of seventy Villistas
Whose scouts were killed in the at
tack of Lieutenant Patton's small
command at the ranch Sunday. When
the fight was over, with the Mexican
trio dead in the corral, friendly nat
ives informed the Americans that a
strong band was proceeding westward.
The three slain Villistas, they said,
were stationed at the rear of the col
umn to act as scouts. American de
tachments were sent out immediately
to puVsue and break up the band. To
day they are reported close on the
heels of the Villistas in the pursuit
through the hills. The Villistas'were
clacTin odds and ends of uniforms, the
natives said. Some wore parts of
N kntertctm cavalry men's slothing.
The withdrawal from the advanced
tase at San Antonio was the signal
for renewed Villista activity among
the natives according to advices here.
Recruiting officers visited the native
settlements to stir up anti-American
sentiment and even attempted to in
cite revolt in isolated Carranzista
r&rrisons, pointing to the contraction
of the line as evidence of weakness.
One report reaching the base to lay
was that Villa, fully recovered from
his wounds, is re-gathering his force.*
In the Durango mountains.
The withdrawal movement contin
ues, it is stated at headquarters today
and 10,000 men will soon be concen
trated in the vicinity of Colonia Dub
Ian as a result of the move. Huge
quantities of food and other supplies
ere heaped up at Colonia Dublan, to
care for a large force of men and tide
them over the rainy season, expected
to set in in a few days.
With the exception of a few trucks
being used for other purposes, the en
tire transportation facilities are still
engaged carrying Btores of supplies to
'the interior.
Heavy loads and rough trails have
cut to shreds hundreds of solid rub­
Sir Roger Casement Never
Takes His Eyes Prom Wit
nesses Against Him.
tBy Wilbur S. Forrest. United Press
Staff Corresponuent.]
LONDON. May 16.—The crown be
gan clinching its case against Sir
Roger Casement, when the treason
hearing of the brilliant Irishman and
Daniel Bailey, one of his soldier con
federates, was resumed in Bow Btreet
Police court today.
Mary Gormon, a pretty servant girl.
Identified Casement as one of three
®en she saw landing on the Irish
coast near Tralee from the collapsible
boat which carried them from the
German submarine U-19. John Herne,
°f the Irish constabulary told about
the circumstances leading to the
prisoner's arrest.
Hew He Wat Caught.
ley Wilbur S. Forrest, United Press
It Staff Correspondent.]
LONDON, May 16.—John McCarthy
Kerry county farmer, with a thick
""ish brogue, upset plans prepared
Months in advance at Berlin for Sir
K°ger Casement to lead a rebellion
that would sweep all Ireland.
'''his fact was disclosed today when
the preliminary hearing of Casement
and one of his Irttfh soldier confeder-
Danlel Bailey,
Villista Bands Spring Up on All Sides of Ameri
can Expedition in Search of Chief
•/". Bandit.
-frf?"i'.!fS7T•
ip?
trSJ$
ONE IS KILLED, TWO BOB UP
Change of Advanced Base Causes Renewed
Activity Among the Gringo Hating
Greasers.
ber tires with which the trucks are
equipped, and outgoing trains are
carrying extra sets for emergency use.
Large supplies of lumber also are be
ing sent into the interior, presumably
for the construction of permanent
headquarters for the rainy season.
It Was Only a Bluff.
SAiN ANTONIO, Texas, May 1«.—
Carranzista soldiers threatened to
cross the (border near Douglas to re
trieve 3,000 cattle Imported by Amer
ican cattlemen, but backed down
when General Funston threatend to
meet them with an American force, it
was learned here today.
The Americans failed to pay export
duty on the cattle, Funston said, and
the Carranzista troops threatened to
collect reimbursement toy driving
back the-stock. Menacing deroongtraf
lions accompanied the threats, but
the Carranzistas remained on their
own side of the border.
Plans for disposition of the militia
were not completed today. is
stated, however, that the men will b©
scattered to their positions along the
border within a week.
Kill One, Two Bob Up.
[By M. D. Jacobs, United Press Staff
Correspondent.
ADVANCED BASE SAN ANTONIO,
CHIHUAHUA, May 6.—(By courier
to Columbus, N. M., Miy 16.)—Chas
ing Villista bandits is like fighting a
stubborn fire squelch them in on**
place and they break out in another.
The American troops have clashed
with the main body of Villistas in
four "major" engagements. In each
case the enemy has lost heavily and
hie force has been scattered and
broken. Three times the bandits have
reorganised and recruited almost to
their original strength. And there is
every possibility that they will be
able to do so again.
Colonel Dodd and his column of
Seventh cavalry struck the Villistas
(Continued on page 2.)
CLINCHING CROWN'S CASE
AGAINST IRISH REBELS
Bow street police court. It was Mc
Carthy and not the British secret ser
vice that caused Sir Roger's capture.
M/cCarthy's brogue was so rich tha*
the court and spectators had difficulty
understanding him. He told a story
rivalling fiction.
On the morning of- Good Friday,
McCarthy said, he was walking along
the Irish coast near Tralee when lie
noticed a small boat floating toward
the shore. He walked down to the
beach to pull it in and noticed the
fresh foot prints of three persons in
[the sands.
For some reason the foot prints
aroused McCarthy's suspicions. He
sent word to the barracks and immed
lately officers were sent out to in
I vestigate.
I Sergeant Herne. of the Irish con-
1
Sir Roger moved uneasily through
out their testimony, stroking his
•holt beard and tousled hair, twitch
ing his head from side to side and
J®pping his note pad nervously with
pencil. His eyes never left the
.witnesses while they were testifying.
stabulary, took up the story where
I the Kerry county farmer left off. He
said the constabulary scattered over
a wide area along the coast when the
inewg arrived at the barracks. After
'considerable search, Herne said they
found casement In an old fort known
as McKenna's fort. The prisoner pro
tested vigorously against arrest, stat
!ing that his name was Richard Mor
ton and that he was an author.
In spite of his protests, he was es
corted to the Ardfert barracks, after
he had dropped a paper upon which
were the words "await further in
structions. Have decided to stay.
Further ammunition and rifles are
needed. Send another ship."
Mary Gormon, a pretty servant girl,
was summoned to the barracks and
Identified Casement as one of the
men she saw emerging from the
water the collapsible boat having
capsized. The Gormon gin was In
4ConttntM4 ca
pa«e
vP'
and prevent flames eating up the
wreckage.
Three investigations to place
sponsibiiity, were under way today.
Greater Than New York.
CHICAGO, May 16.—"Greater than
New York," was the slogan adopted
today by Chicago preparedness advo-
Jeremiah Is Strong.
NJ3W YORK, May 16.—Jeremiah
O'Neill, street car conductor, jerked
the fare register so hard ringing up
a fare, that he dislocated his shoul
der.
Mexico City.
SJ.
FlV Were Killed.
LAREDO, Texas, May 16—Five pen
sons were killed and an American
named Hill was robbed of $3,000 In
gold when Zapatistas wrecked a pas
S
f#%
In the Woevre, there were artillery other fighting monsters were Included
struggles. in the fleet. Petrograd dispatches r»
In the Champagne region there was
little activity last night. The Ger
mans made no attempt to return to
the attack In the region of Le Mesnll
Les Maiaons Oe Champagne, where
they made several simultaneous at
tacks yesterday.
GENERAL IS KILLED.
PARI8, May 16.-—General Marchand
has been killed at the front, accordinq
to dispatches received here this after
noon.
General Juan Baptists Marchand,
was one the most notable figures
In the French army, not only becauee
of his prominence In the present war,
but becauee of his clash with Lord
Kitchener In 1898 which threatened
to reault Jn war between England and
France and became known aa the
Faahoda Incident.
Marchand at that time was In com
mand of a French force In Africa, attacks on Hill 304 northweat of Ver
which occupied the village of Faahoda jdnu were repulsed, the enemy suffer
In Sudan, In July, 1898, Threatened ing heavy losses, the war office an
by Kitchener, in command of the nounced this afternoon.
British forces, Marchand surrendered Northwest of the village of Vaux,
Faahoda to the British In November another attack was repulsed.
of the same year.
Marchand was born In 1863. He Lively Family Row.
married the daughter of the Countess PARIS, May 16.—Mrs. George Wash
Wldell. He entered the army In 1883 ington Lopp, known as "Lady Nico
and after gaining a commission three ine" because she collected cigarette
years later, won flame as an explorer,
particularly In Africa.
NINE KILLED
WHEN ROOF FELL
Fifty People Were In Restaurant
the^ Frame Building
Collapsed. r""
AKRON, Ohio, May 16.—Nine per
sons were dead today and twenty in
jured, some seriously, as the result of
the collapse of the Crystal restaurant
building, shaken from Its foundations
by dynamite blasts.
Of the dead, four are men, four wo
men and one a little girl. One woman
was still missing.
Crowds stood about the scene of
the disaster all night. Those killed,
lost their lives when the roof of the
one story structure, forty years old,
collapsed. There were fifty persons,
including employes, in the restaurant
when the crash came, with but a mo
ment's warning.
The foundations of the building
had been weakened by excavation
*f*
anb Comstitution- itccraL
funds for French soldiers in America,
and her daughter Sophia Machain,
were recovering from numerous
bruises today while the American
ambulance committee was attempting
to Iwsh the scandal caused by the
arrest of Mrs. Lopp's husband, a
member of the committee.
Miss Machain is the daughter of
Mrs. Lopp by her first ftiarrlage to" A
Paraguayan minister. She was en
gaged to be married to James Slevln,
manager of a New York film company
who was recently knighted by pope
Benedict when he took pictures at
the Vatican.
Lopp objected to the marriage and
according to his own story, made
charges against his wife. In ine en
suing altercation, both women were
beaten.
Ready to Try Waite.
ner,
here
Americans were injured, bat all were
robbed with the exception of Charles
A. Douflas.
"The ideal he represented to me,"
Now They're Engaged.
I1?,","1?.? Kleeth. of San Diego, who fell into
to be held June 30 with more than
200,000 men and women and children
I in line. Final plans for the parade
will be made at a meeting of promi
nent citizens this afternoon.
NEW YORK, May iG —Miss Emily
the arms of Captain Stanton Leroy
when she was thrown from her horse,
found the experience so pleasant
that her engagement to the gallant
"cap" is now announced.
Enlarging the Menagerie.
Burlington Gazette: We have the
donkey, t.he elephant and the moose.
Will the animal emblem of the new
peace party be the squirrel?
Trains Wrecked by Mexicans
Who Rob and Kill Passengers
-, .A
KEOKUK, IOWA, TUESE MAY 16, 1916
PAR 18, May 16.—A small German LONDON, May 16«—Rumors that' [py John R. Hlbarley, United Press
grenade attack northwest of Thiau-ithe Germans are about to begin a- Staff Correspondent.]
mont farm, northeast of Verdun, fail-j g4-at sea and land offensive against! ROME. May 16.—Austrian troops
ed utterly, the war office announced the Russian port of Riga were re-j have abandoned their advanced posi-
today.
Elsewhere en the Verdun front, [that a German fleet had left Kiel for
only artillery struggles occurred. Last Riga.
night Avoeourt wood and H1II 304! Copenhagen reported that the new
were rather violently bombarded. superd read
nought Hlndenburg and
I vived today by Copenhagen reports' tlons before Roverto in expectation
cently reported that Field Marshal thoritles put the order of evacuation
Von Hlndenburg was displaying great! into effect Sunday, according to aev
actlvity on the northern front as if In era I Italian citin ns of Trentlno vil
Preparation for a renewal of tiv |ages who slipped by the Austrian
drive on Riga, cheoked by the Rus- lines.
alana Three hundred thousand Austrian
Swedish newspapers report that a troops are now concentrated on the
large German fleet appeared In the Trentlno-Tyrol front. The Austrlans
Cattegat off the southwestern coast
of Sweden Saturday, but waa forced -tain sid- s, constructing rock barriers
to retire by English submarines. across the narrow mountain paths
and making every preparation to
of a heavy Italian offensive in the dl
rectlon of Tr»:nt.
All villages In the Adige valley, upon
which the Italian armies might be ex-'
pected to move, have been clearfid of|
non-combatants. The Austrian au-
are
gain his liberty in a few years. course that is so, otherwise it
cpuld
she said, "will be one that I shall al-1 tisement.
re- ways care about, any girl would. But
he wasn't that ideal,
feront person to me.
ceived me."
He was a dif
He always de-
LAREDO, Texas, May 16.—Mexican The engineer, fireman, coal passer, in the public coaches were robbed. t,y judge Charles H. Donnelly, before
bandits burned to death 150 passen and two others riding on the tender.! The wreck was caused by the burn ^hom the case is beln? tried. Tin
gers In on§ car and wiped out the 1 were killed. ing of a trestle, according to ad- defense demanded the state nroduce
train guard, in wrecking a passenger" William Rosendale, of Chicago, a vices here. The engine and tender sixty love letters that passed between
train carrying nearly 1,000 persons passenger, arrived at Bagle Pass to-jpluneed through the gap. but the young- Orpet and Marian and which
at Ayuzco. near Mexico City, accord day with details of the wTeck. coaches remained on thf tra^k. Aa iiave~been in the possession of State's
ing to reports here today. The sur-1 Rosendale said he heard $20,000 in the crash came the Zapatistas Attornev Dttdy since a few days after
vivors are reported to have reache-1 silver was taken from the express swarmed about the train shouting the tragedy.
car and that a Carranzista paymaster: "viva Villa." and firing through the Wh11» Orpet sat near his attorneys,
was robbed of $36,000 in paper mon- windows to intimidate the passengers, his father and mother to the riL-h'
ey of the new issue. Rosendale took, Then they proceeded quickly to line and left of him, back in the shadows
refuge in Douglas' private car which up and rob the coaches. apainst the rear wall, sat an old man
was the only one not molested by I A coal car sent out from Celavaland woman. The rugged, sunburned
the bandits and escaped the notice rescued the survivors and they were! face of the man was lined and care
of the Zapatistas. He said Douglas, taken back to Oelaya. A short time! worn. He clasped and unclaspeJ
senger train between Palma Gonzales had $20,000,000 of new Carranzista later the party was forced to flee, great, work-hardened hands. The
and Queratcfo" Friday morning, ac- paper money in the car. Other ad- however, when fighting was reported little black *wwned woman beside
cording to advices here today. No vices reaching the border were thatjat
valuables worth approximately $500,
000 were overlooked. These were In "ard Quaretaro
the express car. All the passengers the borfter,
Citg
BANDIES ARE ACTIVE
RUSSIA
FRANCE
now dragging guns up the moun-
meet the expected attack.
Italian troops, meanwhile, oontlnue
to Improve their positions In the rt
glon of Roverto while artillery syste
matically wrecks Austrian defenses
as rapidly as they are constructed.
The war office has Issued a detailed
statement of the Italian operations
tacked both In this zort
BERLIN, May 16—Several French ^o^on^e^ceTl^no^lffi^fve3't WAiSHTOTOTON, May 16.-A11 ready I rons the necessary number of sig
"P to pass the army bill, congress found I lial companies and battalions to
It was stated that the alians at- tM}ay
not succeed as it has. Adver-
Sunset Limited Wrecked.
EL PASO, Texas, May 16.—Six per
sons are reported to have been in
jured when the Southern Pacific's
eastbound Sunset Limited was de
railed east of here early today. One
report in circulation is that Mexicans
loosened a number of ties, causing
the rails to spread. A wrecking train
with troops aboard was started for
the scene of the wreck.
demands.
Chamacuero
after
th«
Germans at Verdun. In the two
monrths period, the Italians have cap
tured 2,100 prisoners, two field guns
and *:venteen machine guns and
have destroyed thirteen enemy aero
planea and five hydroplanes.
PREPARING PROTEST
TO GREAT BRITAIN
Million or More Pieces of Mail Have
Been Seized by the British
Government.
WASHINGTON, May 16.—With data
tor show a million or -more pieces of
United States mail have been seized
by the British government, the state
department is preparing to dispatch,
this government's protest against
the English policy next week.
Informal negotiations have been
proceeding on the subject for the
past few weeks, it developed today,
but without result.
In these circumstances the adminis
tration feels there is no other course
open than to make its objections
more vigorous. In compiling the note
the state department will examine an
enormous amount of data. Not even
mall has been exempt,
NEW YORK, May 16.—Arrange
ments for the trial of Dr. Arthur War- diplomatic
ren Waite on the charge of poisoning though the administration is inclined
his father-in-law, Jcrhn B.' Peck,! to give England the benefit of doubt
Grand Rapids millionaire, were prac- In that matter, in as much as it has
tically completed today, through a
work next dood. When four dynamite conference 'between District Attorney
blasts let go in succession, the build-1 Swan and Mrs. Clara Waite, wife of
ing trembled, the roof dropped and the defendant.
the mass of cracking timbers anl She is ready to testify against the
debris of the death trap slid bodily confessed slayer of her father an a
Into the excavation hole. mother if necessary.
The crash, resounding like a bat- posed to capital punishment, Mrs.! cause it is a stimulant, not because. alent. thereof):
tery of discharged cannon, attracted Waite is willing that it be applied in it is a palliative, but simply because
20,000 persons to the scene and po-! the case of her husband, fearing that it contains the very elements needed
lice, had to beat their way with clubs if he were sent to Matteawan that hejto tone up the female system and
through the crowds to permit rescue would, by his graciousness of man-1 strengthen the depleted organism."
work. Firemen were quick to arrive
been included with other seized mail.
A Fearless Physician.
Such a physician recently remark- iments of fip'd artillery
ed:—"The wonderful power of Lydia ments or engineers: two battalions of
E. Pinkham's Vegetable Compound mounted engineers ninety-three com
Although op-i over diseases of women is not be-1 panies of coast artillery (the equiv
Some proceeded to-'b1m motionless In what seeme 1
In Haste to Be Prepared, Member* are Not
Sure Just What They are to Vote
For.
EXPLANATIONS DO NOT BALANCE UP
Senator Chamberlain Says it Means 400,000
Enlisted Men, While Congressman
Hay Says But 428,000.
I Chairmen Hay and Chamberlain it and such'personnel of the staff corps
Trentlno to prevent Austrian troops didn't know just how big an army It and departments as may be neces
from being sent Into action with the
WM
Presenting the report, of the con
ferees to the senate today. Senator
Ch&mfoerlain said:
who are reasonable and unprejudic
ed, as a 'good bill.'
"The total increase of regulars
will be:
"Thirty-four regiments of infantry
ten regiment^ of cavalry: fifteen reg
t'ive regl-
eight aero squad-
Parents of Dead Girl Sit in
Court Room and Watch
the Proceedings.
In Boston Offices. [cousin university youth, charged with I harder punishment. 1 wish Orpet.
BOSTON, May 16.—Hundreds of' the murder of Marion Lambert, Lake would make a ciep.n breast of t'he
Boston business men think it is part Forest high school cirl. the trial set-1 wh :le thing. I believe he killed my
•of their stenographer's duty to KIsr tied down today to a slow grind of daughter. What else can I believe
them, say the officers of the girls' fining the 1nry box Of tbe venire ofjaf,Pr
union formed to resist the oscillatory ]summoned for jury service, flirty-
.eight were excussed yesterday and l'art 'n *his crime and
today It was believed the balance
(,f
I these would be used without complet-!
ing the ,iury.
I Young Orpet today was more cheer
ful. Fear of the court scene whirl
he pictured in his mind the lorn?
an apathy of resignation. The man
sad others toward a were Mr. and Mrs. Frank
Iembert, jnuyarts of Marian Lambert^
,15
conflicting statements by serve the higher units provided for,
«.reat,n«. I eary.
"The company units will no longer
but pach
was creating.
In the senate Chairman Chamber
lain read a statement that its peace !,J-be skeletons, but pach company,
strength is 11,000 officers and 200,000 I troop and 'battery will be a real
men its war strength 11,500 officers working unit, of about two-thirds of
and ZM.O'OiO combatant troops and its war strength. An infantry coin
that the national guards maximum puny will be 100 men in peace and 150
force is 17,000 officers and 440,000 in war, a troop of cavalry will be 70
men. I men in peace and 105 in war a bat-
In the house Chairman Hay denied tery will be 12S men in peace and 190
the accuracy of these figures. He in war.
prepared a statement to deliver When "The maximum peace strength of
the conference report comes 'before the regular army will be 11,000 of
fhe house which he charged Chamber- ficers and 175,000 men plus the en
lain with having boosted the figures listed men of the signal corps, quar
in his report in order to make the termaster corps, medical department,
senate believe the senate "big army" Philippine scouts and unassigned re
men had won their fight. jcruits a total of 11,000 officers and
When he heard this charge, Cham-! 200,000 men.
berlain came back with the state-1 "In actual or threatened war these
ment that Hay is depressing the real
strength of the army with the object
of making the house believe his lit
tle army men won.
t',
A-
THE WEATHER
Fair. Continued cool. Local
temp—7 p. m. 59 7 a.m. 48.
EIGHT PAGES
can be increased to 11,500 officers
and 226,000 combatant troops, plus
necessary staff troops, Philippine
scouts and unassigD.ed recruits.
"The officers reserve corps and the
reserve oflicers training corps have
been adopted. They provide for the
education, selection and training of
Chamberlain's Figures. civilians in time of peace for the
"The bill is a compromise and duties of officers in time of war.
many of its provisions are experi- "The volunteer army was stricken
mental, and may be found not to out. The vote of tho house on this
work out. But'it is fundamentally feature was so decisively against it
right and must be welcomed by all that the conferees, while differing as
to the desirability of the force, de
cided not to include it in the. bill. In
its place was written a provision for
civilian training camps which wilt
provide training of persons who do
not care to join the national guard.
"The national guard will have
greater inducements to improve. It
will be on trial the next few years
(Continued on ia?:e 2.)
PICKING OUT THE JURORS
TO HEAR ORPET CASE
Frank I^ambert does not want the
son or his neighbor hanged for the
criiiie, he s-aUi ,.day.
"Do you believe in capital punish
ment for Orpet if he is found guilty?"
he was asked.
J-iambert put both hands to his
head and pondered a moment before
replying:
WAinCBGAN. 111.. May 16.—With "No 1 do not." he said slowly and
three jurors tentatively accepted in sincerely. "Some times it's better
the case of William H. Orpet.
Wis-
fiat a man not be hanged. There is
,he
a'
ef1 me? 1
'ile Orpets have treat-
'?l1 would con-
accept a pnson sentence. I
wou,d.
I ii ,, i- hard to lose your onlv child.
months he spent in a jail cell had dis
appeared somewhat. He ill main-I Orpet jury will be taken for
tained his attitude of silence except 'onK auto rides and given whatever
to prcfess his innocence.
An important ruling expected to-
day is that taken under advtsement
be «ahsfied tha justice was
served and that a mother was not
robbed of her only child without
I punishment. Vengeance is the last
wish 1 would ever make. But it is
anmsr-ment possible, but the jurors
positively will not be taken to mov
ing picture shows.
Judge Charles Donnelly, wlio is
trying the case, declared today that
soul stirrins dramas, sex plays with
a moral attached or even parlor love
scenes would not have a gcod effect
on the twelve men, yet to be chosen,
who will try Orpet.
None of the jurors yet accepted
seemed to have any qualms regard
ing circumstantial evidence.
Those tentatively accepted so far
are:
Alfred Stickles. Antioch. widower,
has three children.
Len Barthell, Antioch, married, has
one daughter, aged 16.
Carl Screek, Libertyville, single.
Orpet was in court half an hour be
fore Judge Donnelly mounted the
,(Ooottnn«l-oa pu»
I I
I
5
•1:4
K':
Si
II
ft
,5.
