DAILY EVENING EDITION
DAILY EVENING EDITION
TO ADVERTISERS.
The Bait Oregonlan fau the largest boo
m and guaranteed paid circulation of any
Cper In Oregon, eaat of Portland and by
r the largest circulation In l'eudletoo of
any other newapapar.
WEATHER
Tonight and Wednesday, shower,
and thunderstorm
YESTERDAY'S WEATHER DATA.
Maximum temperature 76, mini
mam. 14: rainfall. 0, wind. went, light,
weather, clear.
CITY OFFICIAL PAPER
COUNTY OFFICIAL PAPER
VOL. 28
DAILY EAST OREGONIAN, PENDLETON, OREGON, TUESDAY, MAY 16, 1916.
NO. 8810
JOHN MCCARTHY
UPSET PLANS OF
CASEMENT PLOT
Irish Farmer, Walking on Beach,
Saw Boat and Notified Garrison;
Capture Soon Followed.
Opera Singer Who
Charmed Kaiser Ar
rested As a Spy
LEADER PROTESTED ARREST
Gate the Name of Richard Norton
Dal 1.MUT Admitted Ilia IdeuUl);
Oaecntcnt Broke Down and CHed
When Tuld That Two of OoufuhT
alt Wito Browned.
LONDON, May It. John McCar
thy, a farmer, upaet the plana for
Sir Roger Casement's Irlah rebellion,
it waa revealed at thu trial today. Mc
carty, not a secret service man, caus-
ed the knights capture, lie testified
In a rich brogue that he wua walking
on the beach near Trulee when he
noticed a boat floating toward the
ahorc He aaw fresh footprints, and
growing suspicious, notified the bar
racks. The police scattered along the
coast tad found Casement in an old
fort Me gave the name of Hlchard
Nwtoa and protected nia arrest
Sergeant Heuruc said that as Case
ment wan being taken to the barrack,
he propped a paper containing the
phrase "Await further Instructions.
1 have decided to stay Further am-, '-ountess Labia made her operatic
munitlun and rifle are needed. Send! debut In (iermany twelve years ago
another ship." t "nder the auspices and protection of
Sergeant Uutler escorted Casement I lhe kataw' admiration of her
in n tii.hlln train where h. broke down 'T,',1,ei1 u sensation In Italy. Until
HMtntknEHtl
1 50 PASSENGERS
FALL EASY PREY
TO
BANDIT
BAND
Mexican Outlaws Reported to Have
Set Car Afire Burning to Death
All the Occupants.
TRAIN GUARD SLAUGHTERED
Survivor Keatih Mexico City; ZajKU
Ista l!. K,riil u. Have Wrecked
Anotlier Train and Hobhed I 'amen -gws;
Much Carranxa Money I Tak.
eu by Outlaws.
COUMTCSS mrilA LABIA
MILAN May 1. Countess Marin,
I.amla, noted opera amger. Is under
: arrest today on a charge of esplon
I age made by Italian authorities. She
1 1 a member of one or the oldeat fam
j lllcs in Venice.
and sobbed when Informed that two
of his confederate had been drowned.
A Scotland Turd Inspector testified
that Casement admitted his Identity
upon Ins arrival at ;! London ata-tlon.
Mary Gorman identified Casement
the war began she frequently nan
In the Komlaehe Oper In Berlin, where
she was patronised by the crown
prince, who seemed o have suunlant. ! v"r were reported ti
ed his royal father In her affection. I City.
I Karller report said that
. . . - i i-.
Countea Labia sung In the Mac
SAN ANTONIO, May !.-
raqzlHtaN today threatened to
cm Uic horde at IHxiglas to re
trieve 3IMH) cuttle tiecanse the
AmeriiaiiN roiu-eii to pas them
under tbe Mexicun export duty.
The de facto troop were threat
ening to drive back tile stock
when an Amcrieaii force, amcar
ed. The H tlM decided to re
main on their own side of the
line,
General Itavls, commanding
tiie Douglas form, discredited
the report of an imminent clash.
Co4MM officials are guarding
the cattle, awaiting; the veterin
arian Inspection. alls has sent
a PrOttM to a -hint t"n
LAREDO, Texas, May 16. Mexican
bandits burned to death 150 passen
gers In one car and wiped out the
guard who were guarding a (rain with
neurl iono aboard at Ayusco, near
Mexico City, It was reported. Survl-
have reached
I- "i
1 How the British Battleships Routed the Rebels
nam m.,m
rw v;ai aniiv. . aaaaaaasB i
GERMANS READY
TO LAUNCH NEW
ATTACK ON RI6A
Kiel Fleet, Including New Super
dreadnaughts, are Reported on
Way to the Russian Port.
HINDENBURG'S TROOPS BUSY
Mat Activity I Itetng Shown by
I -and Forces; Drive I Anticipated ;
Italian Abo preparing- for Great
Offensive gainst tbe Austria of,
Near Trent.
GlhfTC FILM StXVICC.
Thli picture .hows the ruins alone; Eden Quay, Dublin, looking from the famou O'Connel statue,
the heaviest fighting of the rebellion took place. These buildings were rebel strongholds which were
only after the guns from the warships had reduced them almost to ruins
Polling Places Are Named
five Mex
icans were killed. An American
' named Hill was robbed of 1500 In gold
whi n Zapatistas wrecked a train be
I tween Palmn Gonzales and Queretaro
tl,.. rl,,n..r in , ,vnil ' x boll t Her dark Italian boaufv and eicellent "'imiun. n MW1 should tnk th nrecailtlnr. nt
in hi seat uneasily, Btroklmj hit hatrf volot made her a favorite, but a rof "J" 1'har,,'s Doulas- finding out the proper polling placet Hinher Than YpSfPrHaV
, , . ,ov,i hi. (...'nuarrrl with Hsmn,nri.ln r.. h.r " ffa8 b,l,'V1'11 tl"1' fPirtu rffer!,,,,,, pri,. Th r ih.i 8 iiatil It.91t.iua7
m . lf. t V. r. rnnAU nt thm tO M ' : 1 PVPr f, I . I m ti Uha U'a . (linn1 Ul.iriflU W 1 . ( I-
HIS ! !. II , 1 I'', I'll i.i'..' ..i' - - " - - - . ... ' " ... i
at one of the three men whom shejhattan Opera Houe. New York, In
aaw landing from a collapsible boot 'he fall and winter of 190H, under the
on the coast of Ireland During the , management of Oscar Hammerttein
Deputy Sheriff J A. Blakely has
completed the selection of polling
places for the 14 Pendleton precinctg.
Hccause of the changes made In the
boundary lines of the old precincts
and the creation of new precincts
W Rugg garsge
Precinct 44 A.
n Jackson street.
Precinct 45 Lincoln school.
Wheat (Market Closes
I twenty-three year old. and she de-
Itellly actually arretted ""'u wo iu
'i oiiinri n lung tu, sue uveu in u
her only lovet were her voice and her
. . birthplace, Venice.
wltneeee.
Constable
i ascment. He testified that upon
aenrchlng the prisoner he found a
lierm.in memorandum covering Case
ment'n recent travel in 'Qerinany.
Hartin Collins a lad driving a pony!
cart which officers ommundeered to
' ... r, '. , .,1. .h,.. I
ill iir , lurinriii i y i , t. , -"""
I he defendant
Youth Runs Away
for 3rd Time in
Last Six Months
William Uosendale of Chicago, ha
arrived at Eagle Pas with details of
the wreck. He reported that 125,000
In silver was taken from the express
car and the f'nrranxa paymaster rob
bed of J 36.0110 In paper. Kosendale
took refuge In a private car belonging
to Dought which the bandits did not
iniilest. He said that Douglas had
twenty million dollars of the new Car
runxa currency. A hurned trestle
caused the wreck. The engine and ten
der plunged into the gap but the main
part of the train remained on the
M:i:i VllddSTA ACTIVITIES ' rai,s The Zapatistas Immediately
To KIMMVr I'M iv '"niiiii-ii nun me irain snouung viva
American Cavalry
After Band Which
Attacked Troops
SKKM
s-:tTKN..
Bli PAAO, May IS. - American ca
valry are hotly pursuing 70 Vllllstas
l' 1 uomllB .11 ,1 , .1 11a, if ami. ill
MNK-VKAU-OI.D HKIUIWIT W j Patton'a imaU detachment when it
, Villa. They fired at the windows, and
I then lined up and robbed the passen
. gers. A coal car took the survivors
to Delay. They fled further when
fighting was reported at Chamactiero.
! polling places:
Precinct SI Alta House
Precinct 33 D. B
on Lewis street.
Precinct 34 J. W. Malpney garaga
on South Main.
Precinct 35 Lane Paint Shop on
Mill street.
Precinct 36 City hall.
Precinct 37 Failing Bidg., Main
street.
Precinct 38 Bowman Hotel
Precinct 39 Office Dutch
1 Feed Yard.
Precinct 40 Dr. Temple garage.
West Court street
j Precinct 41 Frank Pedro garage
Waffle garage Kast Oregonian)
I dayj
CHICAGO. May 16. (Special to the
Range of prices to-
LONDON. May !. Copenhagen
: reported that the Germans are pre
' paring to launch a tea and land cam
i paign against Riga. The Kell fleet. In
cluding the latest super dreadnaughbj.
have sailed for Riga. Von Hlnden-
I burg's forces are manifesting great
activity.
; ROME, May 16 The Austrian
have abandoned then advanced posi-
i tions at Roverto, evidently expecting
a strong Italian offensive at Trent.
Villages have been cleared of non
combatant. Three hundred thou-
! hand Austrian are concentrated on
the Trentino-Tyrol front.
The Austrian are dragging gun
j into the mountain and constructing
rock barriert. The Italian are im
j proving their positions at Roverto.
Artillery It wrecking the Austrian de
' reuse as fast a they are constructed.
; A communique detailed titat the last
I two months of operations, including
la mm. ft ra 1 ici io-jii,, uueisuve, prwvemea
Write KaleV, KeeVeS the Austrian from remforoing the
A C a D II a ' German at Verdun The Italians have
anO SCOtt On tSallOt eaptured 120 men. two field guns. 17
! machine gun and destroyed H aero-
! planes.
An effort Is being made by local I
democrat to have voters write in the
names of J. R. Raley and W. T.
Reeves for democratic nominee for
representatives from this county, J.
N. Scott for joint representative, and
three other candidates Tor county of
fices. As a result of a caucus held here
several day ago a circular has been
where
taken
Wafit Democrats to
Lack of Funds is
Reason for Local
Team Disbanding
May
Jtih-
Open
.$1.16
.J1.16
High
1.16
ILUVi
Cloae I"" out to a number of democratic j jjq ORGANIZKD EFFORT HAS
SI. 16 hi B
01.I7HA
Portland.
PORTLAND. Ore.. May 16. (Spe
Ota!) Merchants Exchange prices to
day. Club. !3 bid. 97 asked;
Henry stem, 11.14 bid, 11.07 asked.
blue-
i on West Alta.
Precinct 42 Hawthorne school.
Precinct 43 Christian church.
Ki t. Pi THE IAXAAD OK-
"tOBRS BUSY.
The Im was liaaUtl 1 1 a I -- afternoon
hi the iMwanna) rttKfc near Echo and
will la- returned.
apprOMhed the Itubio ranch to buy
provisions It was believed that the
WASHINGTON, May 16. As a re
sult of goott'l report, cabinet members
Liverpool.
LIVERPOOL, Mny 15. Wheat
jSpot No. 1 Manitoba, 13s tll.89 3
I per bu. i; No. 3, no stock: No. 1 north
em spring. 12s 5d; No. 2 western win-1 candidate's name and number on bal
Iter, lis 8d (11.69 4-5 per bu.l lot.
BEEN MADE HERE TO Fl
X Y .YCK BAUi CDPB.
voters. It reads as follows:
We are depending on you to see that
in your precinct the following names
are written In on ballot at primary Though the Pendleton team of the
election Friday. May 15th, and that Blue Mountain League advanced to
your precinct elects a committeeman: '. f'rst place in the percentage column
No. X Joe Scott, joint representative i by the victory Sunday over Pilot Rock
No. X J. Roy Raley, representative. 1 it was disbanded yesterday by Man
No. X W. T. Reeves, representative. nger McGarrigle and there will be
No. X W. S. Howard, Co. School Supt. ! no more team from this city In the
No. X F. B. Hayes, county surveyor. league unless some one takes the Inl
No. X Geo. D. Peebler, coroner. tiative in providing proper financial
Be sure and put a cross between support.
! w hen
lunltlon are piled tilth In an-
Nine year old Herbert West I get
tint; to be a problem for the authori
ties At any rate he provide the of
ficers with work during dull times.
For the third time now, within six ; ticlpntlon of heavy rains
inonlhs. they are making a search for
him following hi attempt to go forth .
In quell of adventure m a borrowed ffj District Of
Somo time ago he fared forth InM j
the country on foot and, at the request
nt bis wiooweii inotnrr, me onicuio
found him ut a farm in the country,
shortly afterwards he borrowed a
liorse at the Telephone livery stable
and started out to bco the world. He
got as far a the Slusher ranch at No.
I in and there wat stopped.
Yesterday morning ne got restless
again. Rev. J. M. Cornellson had
withdrawal of the American expedl- ! believe that a satisfactory agreement
Hon from San Antonio was the signal P1th Mexico probabl has lieen reach
for renewed Vlllista activities. Itled. Tbe Mexican crisis probably will,
wag reported that Villa had recovered ! simmer like the German situation.
from his wounds and again was con-jn,i'' time is needed to completely!
centratlng his men In the Durango j clear up the border Issues Scott was I
mountains. Ten thousand Americans convinced that Obregon was com- I
will soon be concentrated at Dubbin ; P'ctely satisfied with the American (
army a status regarding the punitive
With One of the Outposts in Mexico
Woodmenof World
Meets at Athena
AirXUAJj GATHERING TO CON
VENE TOMOUROW; INITIA
TION IN EVENING.
The twelfth annual convention of
driven In from Tutullla early in tht the ffth ulgtrct of tne Pacific Juris-
mnrning and had hitched hi team djctlon, Woodmen or the World, will ricU
near the Nengle blacksmith shop On De hp(1 tomorrow at Athena and thoi
returning lor it at oxioca ne i Pendleton camp will send up a big
the buggy nround the corner with delegation The district comprises all
both single-trees broxen and tho.()f tne countie of eastern Oregon ex
horses no where In sfght. The boy ,.,,,)t Lake and Klamath,
was near at hand and Informed the The oonvenllnn w, oppn ,
ii,.-ter that his team nad ruii away. ' , ft m w H RcPn
John linker, who was near at hand. L,f the Athena camp, will make the
however, furnished the Information ,.au l0 or(ier. Mayor H. I. Watt will
I hat the boy had untied tne team ana ntIU the address of welcome and
Judge Thos Fltz Gerald of Pendleton
camp will make the response. Tem
porary officer will be chosen at the
morning session and committees ap-
I pointed.
In the afternoon at 2 o'clock th
second session will tie held. The or
der of business Includes the report of
expedition. The papers have been
submitted to the president and his ad
visors and included n transcript of the
Scott-Obregon conversations.
This Indicated a desire on the part
of Oarranza and Obregon to cooper
ate with the Americans. The Tam-
plco situation, however is causing un-
' easiness. Scott said that Obregon
j wat first suspicious, fearing that Am- I
rlOUM intended to remnin in Mcxl-1
! co. Obregon left El Paso how ever
convinced that America's only object
wus to suppress banditry. He agreed
to many military movements which
will aid the Americans, Including
sending 10.000 of his best troops to
patrol the Hlg Hend and Parral dla-
startcd to drive away when. In turn
ing the corner the buggy had hung up
with the result thnt the nortcs broke
nwny. They were caught arond the
. orner and while Mr. Cornellaon was
securing ,them, the noy disappeared.
He It a good looking lad, rather
hiinky built and wear a neat brown
su(t, the trousers being knickerbockers.
SUNSET LIMITED IS
Two DiVOCCet Granted.
Divorces were granted yetterday to
the plaintiff in the case of Delia C.
Hunt v. Percy C. Hunt and Besale
Harkneas vs! Jatse Hark net.
BELIEVED TO BLAME
spikes ue FOUND TO UAVK
BEEN TORN FROM RAILS
NEAR EX PASO.
NEW YORK, May 16. Five pas-
the credential committee, the election sengers and two diner employes were
of permanent officer and delegates Injured when an east bound Sunset
to the head camp.the (election of tho limited was derailed east of El Pasc
next place of meeting, reports of com-1 this morning. It was officially an
mlttee and "good or the order." In notinced. Five cars were overturned
the evening a Joint camp meeting will A broken rah wa the cause. The
1 held with an Initiation followed by railroad's account did not mention
a banquet Mexicans a being responsible.
I
j 1
life - Htii.
Manager McGarrigle has been run-
nlng the team on a "shoestring" all
j season due to the fact that no organ
lied effort was made to finance the
; club. Mr. McGarrible hlmaetf secured
' about $100 but that money ha been
! used up and he refuses to shoulder
any more of the financial burden.
J It is estimated that asout 1200 will
be needed to finish tne schedule and
this amount would be comparatively
easy to raise if any effort were made
at all. The Commercial association
pr o tleally assumed thus task but h is
done little to date.
The team that played Sunday Is Hi
best amateur team Pendleton ha ev
er had and would mane a strong bid
for the pennant. Pilot Rock. Wes
ton and Echo are ready to complete
the season and It la now Pendleton's
QUESTION OF OWNERSHIP
OF WHISKEY BEFORE COURT
BARREL St-aXEf) IN ROOMING
HOUSE ly SHERIFF BONK
OF CONTENTION.
SlGNAlLIS6 '"SOMerHlB. JN MEXICO.
ivjx nut jti cj
This picture taken "somewhere In i soldiers of the punitive expedition, on I
Mexico," shows two of the colored j out pott duty In a tree, signalling In-
.formation to another outpost
"hither or not the gallon bar
rel of Unuot. seized lusi l-'ebriiat) la
the Mrs. Jim Harris rooralag hnose
by Sheriff Taylor, was there in vlo
lutlon of tbe pr.ihlb tion la U being
argued this afternonn Before ClrauM
-udge Phelps on an apptal from tho
decision of Justice of th PeOOt
Parkes. The Justice held thai the II-
Muor could not be properly forfeited
and destroyed under the law-.
The principal facts in the ease .i.
stipulated. The raid on th- rooming
house was made on x Saturday night
and several arrets made Thu ar
rested pleaded gu:lty to conducting -i
public nuisance under the prohlbiii.m
law and claimed all ol the II. pen
seised except the barrel of whlskei
Walter, Mnunlain. soii ln-law of Mr.
Harris, laid claim i.. thai and stated
he h.ol stored It then- for hie own
use.
District Attorne) Steiner placed m
ihe stand thl aflernoon Depot
Sheriff J. A Blakely who teatlfbd
(Continued un pag 10.)
