UNIVERSITY MISSOURIAN
EIGHTH YEAR
COLUMBIA, MISSOURI, TUESDAY, MAY 16, 1916
NUMBER 222
i
AXXI'AL HITKIXG I'AKTV GIVEX
DRIVE AGAINST RIGA
Teutons Said to Be Planning
Renewed Attack Upon
the Russians.
VI AWT SAILS NORTH
Kiel Squadrons Reported to
1 lave Gone Vessels
Seen Off Sweden.
I:. I nile.1 Tress.
UIMiON, May It;.- Rumotrs that the
; imans ari- about tu begin the great-.-i
mm and lain! offensive movement
oi the war against t Iit. Kussians at Riga
iwre i.-ccivcd this afternoon hy dis
patches arriving here from Copenha
g. n.
A large German lleet is said to have
..p.uted from Kiel. Petrograd re
ports activity in the region of Riga,
indicating a renewal of the Teutonic
ilrni' there.
(ierman lleet has hoen reported
today cruising north off the coast of
Sweden.
C. II. S. CLASS HAY FltlllAY
seniors Will Present Program in
School Auditorium.
The annual class exercises of the
senior class of the Columbia High
School will be held in the High School
uditorium Friday evening. Admis
sion will be l." cents.
Miss Willa Wynne will give a pi
ano solo, and the prize history paper
on "The Caste System in America"
will be read by Miss Lucy Hawkins.
The class history will be given in a
series of living pictures by Millard
I'axne, and Misses Elizabeth Spencer,
lessie Kemper, l.ucile Quinn. Ruth
Now el I and Ilattie ISihr. Misses Ma
r Smith and Kuth Nowell will play
a piano duet, "Midsummer Night's
I (ream" A class history, dated lOIJfi,
will be read by Merritt Gwinn, Ray
Weldon ami Misses Kthel White and
Sara Searcy. The class will is to be
read h .lames Sandker. Miss Mollie
I.'iisC II:. is Inltiec IhN'irl Mini lis.i
! Pi'iv'ill Ifiinlii'ving Round Must lie i:i.-nrtc.l nl
ii .!... i. i .i Gviiinasiiiiu Thursdav.
Herbert Daniels, the senior presi
dent, will present the class banner to j TI" annual K'f tournament open to
the juniors, and the resnonse will be '"'' laeully. townspeople ami suments
Tv,o Students Are Convicted of llreak
inir Farmers' Fair Rules.
Tiie annual ducking party that al
ways follows the Farmers' Fair took
place at the dairy pom on the Univcr
sity farm before more than fifty per
sons last night. Two victims went
through the traditional form of pmiih
ment. George Charnowil., a junior in the
School of l.aw. was met on the base
ball diamond by a delegation of agri
cultural students who wanted to know
what he had to say in his own defense
on the charge of wearing an agricul
tural student's badge, which- entitled
the wearer to enter all of the attrac
tions free. He iiad a great deal to say,
lint when the cries of "Duck Him" be
came too insistent lie bowed to the
inevitable and was willing to take his
punishment. A guard was left with
him until the net victim could be
found.
The delegation was looking for Don
Heeler, an agricultrual studiait. who
was charged with non-support of the
fair. Two students found him on the
Varsity field and signaled to the rest.
There was a rush to that place, and
the charge was formally brought
against him. Ho had even more to say
than the lawyer. He claimed that he
had supported the fair to the extent
of an hour and a half of labor. The
delegation was in a dilemma about the
case. Finally they decided to take him
to the pond and settle the matter there.
The guards brought ("liarnowitz, and
everyone marched to the pond.
Charnowitz was first disposed of. He
was told to remove his shoes and
sweater. Then he was picked up by
four agricultrual students. Two man
aged his legs and two his ami'. Some
one counted one. two. three there was
a splash, and all was over for the
time being.
In the meantime Heeler was putting
up a strong light, but the crowd on the
hank was waiting for excitement.
Finally a jury was called, with the in
structions that the man was guilty.
After a few minutes the foreman an
nounced that the punishment should
he administered. There was a shout
from the crowd, and Heeler went the
same unv that Charnowitz had a.me.
TWO KAPPA ALPHAS STAGE
DOUBLE ELOPEMENT WITH
CHRISTIAN COLLEGE GIRLS
In a double elopement, two Chris-leal Association last year. His bride's
Home is in .lopliu. Her father, a
wealthy mine operator, recently re-
tian College girls and two University
students went to Huntsville yester-
, . , ... t ... i ,: .. I ... .;. , ....
nay, wnere a uoume weuiiiug ccic-. i-eivco $;;.o,eun lor one mine
moil) was perlormeil at :; o nock in
the afternoon.
Miss Evangeline Canada was mar-
Spitzer, who is a junior in the Col
lege of Arts and Science, lives at
-Maiden, .Mo., where his father is a
ried to Harry C. Shuttee and Miss Ma-1 lumberman, owning extensive interests
.. i i : i... . i... i. :,i. ' ;.. 1...1. ...fit.. .i. ,. ..
i) .wuiiiici i.muiv uccaiui; nit: umre. m lum nuns. .irs. Mpiizer s parents
of Carl Mel). Spitzer. The young I live in Springfield, Mo.
women were chums in college audi Mrs Uu,1I;l u- S( (,,.ljr J()gs
the young men are members of !' president of Christian College said to
same rraternity, the Kappa Alpha. )(iay that the two young collides had
Shuttee is on the list of prospective been engaged for some time and had
graduates of the College or Agricul-' planned to be married at the close of
lure, who are due to receive their , school in June.
diplomas in two weeks, but it is not j ..TIl). :lI,;lll(1 r ,,, KirU knew ()f
known here whether he will return to)IIloir ellKaf,ollu.nl t(, , ,)OVS.. sai(,
s'Il"1- .Mrs. Moss, "but the marriages were
The two couples left Columbia yes-j not scheduled to take place until
terday morning and went to Moberly Mime."
oy train, i no trip to iiuntsvnie was ,rs. Moss sa,(, , .
completed in a motor car. They are
now in Kansas City on their honey
moon.
Shuttee's home is in West Plains.
His father is a physician and was
president of the .Missouri State Medi-
egvphvn si:i:ks m. c. ivy si:i:i
Prince Salem" Would Che Hume a
Touch of His Alma Mater.
Dean F. II. Mumford of the College
of Agriculture received a letter yes
terday from Ceorge .1. Salem, an Kgyp-
irls
went to Sturgeon last week-end to
visit Mrs. Shuttee's grandmother. The
young men went there to see them
and it is supposed that the double
elopement was arranged at that time.
15 SCHOOLS KYI' Kit M. V. MEET
Si Mure Than Last Year Will Send
Athletes Here May 27.
The preliminary entry list for the
! Missouri Valley Conference Track
land Field Meet show in schools en-
tian, now in that country, who was , tering 1!G7 athletes in the contests to
graduated from the College of Agri- be held here Saturday, May 27. All
culture in l'.io:.. the schools which entered the meet
While here, Salem was widely known last jear are again entered, and there
as "The Kgyptian Prince." After re-, are in addition men from six other
reiving his degree, he went to D.iira, ! institutions.
Egypt, to carry on agricultural work, j The final entry list by events will
"Prince Salem" now asks Dean ' he closed Saturday of this week.
Mumford to send him seed of the ivy j Ames heads the list with sixty-two
plants growing on the University I men. Missouri has fortv. The others
buildings so that he may have .Missouri are: Drake, thirty-four- Kn.wna a.
TIIE WEATHER
,i,V,".r ''"I1""1'1-' ".I Vicinity: fair to-
i'..":ti.u",,.,""-,r! "", """"
1'nr .Missouri: Tair tonight ami We..
IlCMlM) : Hot IMUl'll lllrl.l.-.. In .
---"-.- ... iiuiri.iiuii'a
Weather on.IHI.ins.
...irlr'."1 .'I"' -Ml-slsslppt Kher the
weather continues ,l.,ii,ly and miM'ttlisl.
'.' ,r S 1,aV:, fa,1!1" "" "' Atlautle
.ist fr.mi l'.irl.l.i t ,. i:ngl.in.l
tlir..iigli,.ut the Olil.i Valley. , i Irt
r the l.ke recinij; ami .luring )est.-nlav
sh..H,rs o.-.nrre.l In Minn.-suta ami South
.oili'is' :1" :lt :' f''" u""'r S'-J'"f"'
West r tl. Mlssl,,!,,,,! ,. ,..lt.r is
this in.. ruing r.iir an, ,.(, Fr, m..
.urre.l list night generally throughout the
..... k, ..louni.iiii .stales ami upper l'laius;
fm-zing .-..millions ohtain in Southern
oh.ra.lo ami Itah ami Western Cana.la.
I'air, eool weather will eonliiiue in Co
lunil.l.i Tor the next thirtr-six hours or
more.
Loral llatu.
The highest leui.er.ituie in I'oluilil.i.l
jesier.l.i) was ir. ami the iow.-t last
night was 17; pieeiplt.ilion, .); relalie
huinhlit) .' p. in. .lestenlav. Tm per .ent
-i .o-.ir ago jesler.la) the highest
per.ilure was ,s7 ami the lowest W,
elpilatimi. .no
'III
BANDITS BURN COACH;
150 MEXICANS KILLED
Train Carrying Nearly a
Thousand Persons At
tacked at Ayuzco.
2 WRKCKS IN WEEK
Anicric-an Robbed of 3,000
in Gold in Accident
on Friday.
lelll-
pre-
Teuiperatiires Tmlii).
" a. m ;.n it a. m r,,s
s a. m .-,:: 12 m .v.i
' a. m :,:. l p. ni :.!i
ll' a. m .".7 2 p. m t!2
CABINET GETS REPORT
General Scott Presents Ac
count of Conferences With
Obregon on Border.
Hy Unite. Press.
WASHINGTON, May IC Oeneral
Scott's formal report of the border
conferences with Ceneial Obregcii.
Mexican war secretary, was laid before
the cabinet this afternoon.
It was announced that the report in
dicates that President Caniaiiza is
willing to co-operate with the Ameri
can expedition.
One tiling certain. General Scott
says, is that General Obregon is con
xinced that the only motive of the
Cnited States in sending an expedition
into ilexico is to capture Villa.
ISy lliilte.1 Press.
I.AIJKDO, Tex.. Al.i) .;. Mexican
bandits burned to death I .In passen
gers in one car and wiped out the train
guard by wrecking a passenger train
carrying nearly a thousand persons
at Ayu.co, near .Mexico City. .Mexico,
according to reports here this after-
1110011.
Another wreck occurred Friday at
Qtieretaro. in which Zapatistas kill
ed live persons and robbed an Ameri
can named Hill of ?::,0o0 in gold.
GOMKliSIN TOI'RNVJIENT I'lHIIU
made by Lester Arbuthnot. the junior
president. Miss Opal Vinkemeyer will
give a piano solo. The senior play.
"Proxy's Proxy." will be given by
.lames Ilewick. Hugh Trowbridge, Her
bert Daniels, Alexander Gibhs, and
Misses I.enora Daltou. l.ucile Stout
and Winifred Dysart.
('. ('. ANMM'M'KS IIOXHtS
Miss Drescher I Ynlcdictoriun aim
.Miss franklin Salutatorian.
i 'lass honors at Christian College
haw been announced.
Miss Frances Diesclier of Hannibal,
Mo. having made the highest average
during the junior and senior years, is
valedictorian. Miss Cirrelda Franklin
of Kldon. as second rank student, is
salutatorian. The class represent
ative is Miss Iteba Raines, Macon, Mo.
Miss l.ucile Thatcher of Oklahoma
c'itv is class prophet, and to Miss Merle
Adair of Archie. Mo., has been assign
ed tin- writing of the class will. Miss
l.ilv lilanche Osborn of Clifton Hill,
Mo . w 111 deliver the ivy oration for the
planting of the ivy. Class Day will be
i Limited Mav .",0.
will start Friday. The score of the
qualifying round of eighteen holes
must be reported at Itothwell Gymna
sium by Thursday afternoon. There
will be three groups of eight each in
the match play.
The lirst round of each class must
be pkiyed Friday or Saturday, and the
second round must be off by the fol
lowing Monday. The finals in each
group will be played not later than
Thurday, May l'.".
A cup will lie given to the winner
in each class, while the rimiier-up will
receive two golf balls. A fee of '2-
cents will be charged for entrance
OHIO !'. I'ltOI'KSSOII' VISITS M. I'.
I'. II. Fn.i Spends Three llnjs In
spccliug School of Engineering.
F. II. F.no. professor of municipal
engineering at Ohio State 1'niversity,
.'Imiihus. Ohio, left Columbia yester
dav after a three-day inspection of the
work of tiie School of Engineering.
Pn fessor Kno is making an inspec
tion tour of American state universi
ties, and is also examining sewage
disposal plants of large cities. From
''olumliia he went lo Houston, Tex.
Professor Kno commended the work
of lie- School of Engineering here.
(OM.KCK FAIt.MKK IX SSOCIATIOX
Agricultural College Publications Ad
mit .11. I'. to .Membership.
The National Association of Agri
cultural College Publications held its
annual convention at Chicago, May 12
and i:i. The College of Agriculture of
the University of Missouri was admit
ted to the association. Paul C. Knowl
ton, who represented Missouri, return
ed yesterday morning. Mr. Knowltiui
believes that membership in the as
sociation will lie a great henelit to the
College Farmer.
Colleges belonging to this Associa
tion and having representatives pres
ent at the meeting were Illinois. Iowa.
Purdue. Ohio and Wisconsin.
surroundings in Kgypt. The letter
was opened bv two official censors.
both of whom, ''after careful considera
tion." decided that the war could go
on just the .-ante if they allowed Hit
commiinicatioii to proceed.
PETIT .IlltOliS RK CIIOSKX
Serw
Court Names Those Who Will
in June Term Here.
The Itoone County Court convened
this morning and named the petit jury
which will serve during the June
term of the Circuit Court. The jurors
are:
Ilourbon Township Vincil
berry. Samuel Spelman.
gies, twenty-nine; University of Kan
sas, twenty-four: Washington Univer
sity, eighteen; University of Nebras
ka, fillcen; Tarkio College, thirteen;
Griimell College, thirteen; Nebraska
Weslevan. seven; Central College,
five; Fail-mount College, three; Ken
dall College, two; Oklahoma A. & M.
College, one; Simpson College, one.
CAINS KICIIT .MKMHKKS IX HOIK
HOLDS SKATS EOH COKI'MIIIAXS
Manager of Suinlaj .Meetings Will Ite
serve Place for Excursionists.
Scats will be reserved for the Colum-
, bia delegation to the Hilly Sunday
Golds-1 meeting in Kansas City Friday after-
Centralia noon, according to a letter received bv
llean Charters Kinds .M. I'. .Men In
terested in Coiiiiiirrcial Club.
Dean W. W. Charters, chairman of
one of the special committees in the
Commercial Club membership cam
paign, finds University faculty mem
bers and officers interested in the
work of the club, according to his re
port this morning to C. O. Hanes, secretary.
As the result of one hour's
on the first floor of Academic
I Dean Charters obtained eight
members for the Commercial
and he has prospects of one or two
more from that floor.
PITIES MAKE IIAItV CLOTHES
Girls in Sixth Grade at Itent.m School
Sen fur Charity Soviet).
The girls of the Benton School are
now doing charity work. The little
girls of the domestic science depart
ment of the sixth grade of the school
have just completed and presented to
the Charity Organization Society eigh
teen garments for infants. The gar
ments are to.be distributed by the vis
iting nurse. Miss Iiertha Hamilton,
among the poor of Columbia.
The work of making the garments
was supervised by Miss Louise Flour
noy, the domestic science teacher at
the Penton School. The little girls
who did work are: Virginia Iloswell.
Helen Chandler, Pauline Doyle, Anita
Clo Daly, Virginia Hale, Loriue Ja
cobs, Sybil Johnson, Kula Kuth Mil
ler, Nadine Miller, Mary .Mellarg,
Thelma Oliver, Uuth Smith. Frances
Stuart, Marjorie Thomas, I.ula Hell
Crowley. Anna Marie llrown. Mary
Tipton and Goldie Tiirnbough.
II. II. IIOA.NE TO ST. LOI'IS SOO.X
Township Virgil Todd. J. S. llrown. I Mayor .1. m. liatterton this mornimg
Columbia Township Harvey Griggs, from the manager of the Sunday meet
.1. W. Langston. Snell P. Keene, It. S. 'Rs.
Wright, II. A. Haden, G. T. Felty, G. Mayor liatterton has arranged with
N. Akeman. J. T. Hulett, Orin Shaw. ( the Wabash to run a special train out
Homer Green way. Cedar Township of Columbia to Kansas City at 7 o'cloek
K. P. Crenshaw, William lilythe, Tom Fiiday morning. This will permit the
Hertford, T. R. Payne. Missouri Town- Columbians to hear Sunday at the Fri-
ship Koy M. Douglass, Dimmitt Raid-, dav afternoon service.
win. Perche TownshipJim Mead, I. The $L'.7."i rate which is offered will
work
Hall,
new
Club
It. Goslin. Kocky Fork Township
John Hall, Ilert Winn.
be good until the last train leaving
Kansas City Sunday night for Colum
bia. Those persons who cannot leave
Friday on the 7 o'clock special will be
allowed the special rate on any train
SOITII DAKOTA lr. 1IEAH HEHK
Mtslicnl Seven Initiated
Mvstieal 7. an honorary senior so-ci'-t
initiated the following men last
night- Ilv-ron Spencer. D. J. Oven. Har
ry lousing, r. C. Drown. Don D. Pat
ters.,!,. Frank II. King anil Itohert
Simpson, fter the initiation a ban-'I"'-'
was held at Harris'.
Mrs. .Hc(TMi Seels Ilhorce.
Mrs. Willie McClish today filed suit
for divorce from Oscar McClish. They
were married July 4. 1910. The pe
tition states that McClish was subject
o violent fits of temper. She asks
hat her former name of Willie Rob
erts he restored.
It. L. Slaslc Seeks Men lo Kill Vacan
cies in Faculty.
Robert L. Slagle. president of the
University of South Dakota. Vermil
ion, S. I)., is visiung in lommma.
President Slagle is also inspecting the
University and securing men to fill
vacancies in the faculty of the Uni
versity of South Dakota.
It. F. Tucker's Will Filed.
The will of 15. F. Tucker of Stur
goon, who died May 8, was filed to- - leaving during the day.
day in the office of Probate Judge
.loiin F. Murry. He leaves $1,000 to .1. W
each of his sons, W. W. Tucker and
.1.1) Tucker nnd In l.! ,in.i.ior ' '" IH'miT I nilliencciiieill Ail
hrce High Schools
TO .MEET OKLAHOMA IX TEXXIS
Missouri Will Play Net Men of Smith,
west on Loral Courts.
The University of Oklahoma will
send its tennis team here next Satur
day afternoon for live matches witii
Missouri's net men. There will he four
j singles matches, each of the two Ti
' ger men playuig each of the two Okla
I iionia men. Two out of three sets
I will be required to win the singles
I matches and three out of live the
i doubles.
Oklahoma has at least one star play
er, Monett, who on a tour last year
among the Missouri Valley and Wes-
Former M. lr. Professor Has Iteiiiaiiied
Here to Study Farm Loans.
I). II. Doane, who resigned recently
from the faculty of ths College of
Agriculture to enter the farm loan
department of the Mississippi Val
ley Trust Company of St. Louis, will
move to St. Louis soon.
.Mr. Doane has remained at the Col
lege of Agriculture since .March 1
for special duty in farm loans, and at
the same time has had charge of his
office in St. Louis. The purpose of
his work is to put farm loans on such
a basis that the loan may be de
termined by the earning capacity of
the farm.
"If this can be done, and I think it
can," said Mr. Doane today, "the
farmers of the state will be greatly
helped, and the companies protected.
We hope to have this system in work
ing order in a short time."
I tnfn PfiTirnPiilinn uJ.liviTu ti-nM jll'iirl
HUDSON OX LKCTI'Ki: TOl'H . . , '
maicn ne piayeu.
17.'. II. S. IX EI.S TO HE GIVEN'
Year's Increase in M. I'. School
Graduates Is Kill Per Cent.
! The School of Kducation will con-
17ii students this year, an in
crease of more than 100 per cent com
pared with the SI graduates of last
Slate I'. II. C. Officers o 1'oine.
The United Daughters of the Con
federacy will meet at the home of
Mrs. S. C. Hunt, SOI Conley avenue, at
2::'.0 o'clock Thursday afternoon. Mrs.
Charles Farris. state president, and
Mrs. U S. Parker, state secretary,
both of Jefferson City, will attend the
the session.
Hale Wilson Leaves Hospital.
Dale Wilson, a student in the School
of Journalism, who has been in the
Parker Memorial Hospital with accute
appendicitis, was dkchargeiF this
morning and "ill resume his work in
the University soon.
s daughter, ........
Miss Cebele Tucker Tn l.w -ir ' dresses at
Mrs. Lucinda Tucker, he leaves $2,- "r- ! W". Hudson or the department
000 and also the dwelling house and of philosophy will go lo Kirksville
seven lots in Sturgeon to hold during tonight to deliver the commencement
her lifetime nfter wliieli thn i-noi no. address to the liisrh school class.
tate will co 'to his .lnnehter ti,' d Wednesday niclit he will address the ! fer ,,le ,leree of R s- '" Kl"caio'1
of his estate will l.o .liv.Mn.i .,,..,ii,- Western Unitarian fonference in St. I "I""1
among his xvife and children. The l-otiis.
will provides that bis wife l.n on. Thursday night Doctor Hudson will
pointed executrix-. deliver the commencement addr-rs to ' 'ear- Tne cIass of si represented an
' th.. ;raduating class of the Perry. Mo., j '"crease of CO per cent over the class . was rcft.rr((,
To He Pussv's Guardian Angels. ; "iKh School, and Friday night he will tll(! previous year, in.
I!y rnite.l Press. deliver a similar address to the'
ST. PAUL. Minn., May 10. Crushing I rr.i;.,wick lo Hlch School rlnss i It. 0. Iteeves. LI.. It, 'lit. Marries.
old tin cans, so nosey cats can't get! Doctor Hudson will be the com-' Announcements have been received
their heads stuck in tlieni while ex- ' n.encement speaker at the Stai" Nor- in Columbia or the marriage of Miss
ploring, is to be the duty of the Hoytmal School. Emporia. Kan., May. SI. (Lois Irene Jones, daughter of Mr.
Scouts in "Kindness to Animals' " : and Mrs. II. II. Jones of Memphis, Mo.,
Week," which began today. The Na-1 Student Mass Meeting Tliursdav. 'to Hirney O. Reeves of that city, at
tional Humane Society or Albany, N. . a student mass meetiiiir will beheld 'the home or the bride May 11. Mr.
at 7:1.". o'clock Thursdav nicht in the Reeves received the LI. H.
University Auditorium to
MERCHANTS PLAN JI'I.V OUTING
Itelail Merchants Also Ci insider Initi
ation Fee for Future.
Members or the Retail Merchants'
Association are planning an outing for
tiie Fourth of July. They discussed
the idea favorably last night in Un
commercial Club rooms.
The entertainment committee was
( instructed to make plans and to report
at the next meeting. The committee is
composed of A. O. Long, chairman. J.
C. Hollovvay and II. R. Jackson.
The matter ot an equitable initiation
fee for new members In the association
to L. W. Ilerry, W. C.
Knight and F. A. Dalton as a commit
tee. Heretofore there has been no
such fee. Any new members enter
ing bf fore the committee report is act
ed on will be taken in under the pres
ent enrollment rules.
V.. fathers the idea. Tiie boys will be
detailed to tour back yards and alleys
and place a decisive heel into every
can thev find.
P. E. Corriwau Iticomcs Instructor.
I am l-.. I orriveau. graduate student a,i f;,P11iH- committees. At the mass
In horticulture, has accepted an ap- meeting the affairs of the student
pointmetit as instructor in horticulture j hotly will be turned over to the in
at the Rhode Island State College. Mr. ; coming officers by Student President
Corriveau was recently elected a mem- '' K. C. Mead,
her of Sigma Xi. j
' National Guards to Ghe Supper.
Lavvjers' Hall Team Drubs Faculty, j The Columbia Machine Gun Com
Tiie lawyers defeated the Faculty ' pany will give a box supper next
in a baseball games yesterday by a) Thursday night at the Wheat farm.
S.irorilj at Stephens Gives Purl).
The Sigma Iota Chi sorority of Ste-
degree phens College gale a garden party last
submit to from the University in 1U12 and is a i night on the college campus. The cam-
the vote of the student body a pro- practicing attorney at Memphis. He is pus was decorated with boughs of
posed constitution for the Missouri, a member of the Kappa Sigma fra-1 foliage and electric lights. An orches-
Student-Alumni Union. The constitu- ternity
tion has been nassed upon by student
score of 10 to ;i.
east of Columbia.
School Accounting Oflicers Meet.
:- Uiilt.il I'res.
DBS MOINES, la.. May lfi A three
day session of the National Associa
tion of School Accounting Oflicers
opened here today with President
Charles Mason of St. I-ouis presiding.
tra played throughout the evening.
Refreshments were served from a tent
of foliage. Invitations were issued lo
.100 persons.
M. I". -Catalogue Out Saturday.
The catalogue of the University of
Missouri for lOir.-l'jIR, with the an
nouncements for i;MC-lItl7, will be is-
Wiiliam Dick of Philadelphia is vice- sued next Saturday. This year 21,-
president, and William T. Kenogh, of
Roston is secretary-treasurer. Visitors
are here from a score of states.
000 copies will be printed, as compar
ed with lS.OOo last year. This size will
be practically the same ,-0 pages.
