THE BARRE DAILY TIME
VOL. XX NO. 53.
BARRE, VERMONT, TUESDAY, MAY 10, 1910.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
BANDITS TAKE
TO WRECKING
Ditched" Sunset Express on
Southern Pacific; Six
Were Injured
SPIKES REMOVED
FROM SEVERAL TIES
Another Wreck Last Friday
Said to Have Killed
2'i People
El Paso, Texas, May 6. Bandits who
are thought to have been Mexicans from
across the Rio Grande early this morn
ing removed the spikes from a number
of tics on the Southern Pacific railroad
track, causing the derailment of the east
bound Sunset Express near Fort Han
cock, 60 miles east of this place. Six
persons are reported to have been hurt,
three of them seriously.
ACCIDENTALLY
TURNED ON GAS
Stoddard B. Martin of North
Ferrisburg Found Dead
in Burlington
V. N. G. MOBILIZATION.
HE WAS STOPPING AT
Plans About Completed for the Demon
stration at Northfield.
Xorthllcld, May 16. The plans for the
mobilization of the line troops of Ver
mont, which is to take place Saturday,
May 520, are well under way, and the re
sponse on the part of the lioarda of trade
and bueine&s men a organizations at
home stations of the respective compan
ies, has been most gratifying. Favor-
ble replies have : been received from
every business organization in the state
except one. The owners of automobiles,
who are to give their machines free of
charge as a means of transportation of
the infantry troops to Xorthrleld, liave
HUGHES SEEMS
SURE TO LEAD
In the Vermont Republican
Preference as Determined
at the Polls To-day
DAUGHTER'S HOME "Vtd !l 1 ITltT'lt "?
I'.v iviiv iiwiiiK ir . "n mn .......
with most emphatic approval of military
men of experience who realize the diffi
culties of such a mobilization and who
WILSON FAR AHEAD
AMONG DEMOCRATS
Eaglo Pass, Texas, May 'W. Twenty
four were killed, it was stated by the
authorities at Piedras Negras, opposite
here, to-day, in the derailment last Fri
day of a through passenger train from
Mexico City to Laredo. The accident
happened between Quereta.ro and Km
palme Gonzales. ' Reports from Laredo
gave the number of dead at eight. The
bandits carried away all the valuables
they could find as well as much of the
passengers' clothing. All the passengers
who escaped walked barefoot to k,ai
palme Gonzales, nine miles distant, where
& relief train was made up.
AMERICAN EFFORTS
NEAR CULMINATION;
BANDITS BROKEN
Belief at Columbus, N. M, Is That Persh
ing's Army Has- Nearly Completed
Its Work Detachment of U. S.
Troops Recently Attacked.
Columbus, X. M., May 18. The Amer
ican columns' efforts to exterminate the
scattered bands of Villa followers in the
district occupied by Pershing's command
are Hearing a culmination, according to a
belief expressed here. The larger bands
have been broken and driven south, but
a few fugitives remain south of the field
base at Xamiquipa. This is indicated
by an attack on a dozen American troop
ers recently.
Unofficial reports indicate that flying
columns are riding hard to try to exter
minate the larger bandit bands.
BELFAST STUBBORN
BEFORE ASQUITH
Disinclined to Accept Anything Which
Might Imply Future Subjection of
Ulster to Home Rule.
Belfast, May 10. Stubborn disinclina
tion to accept anything in the way of a
government which might imply the fu
ture subjection of Ulster to home rule
tyas evident yesterday, on the occasion of
Premier Asqiiith's visit to Belfast, which
lasted only a few hours. So far as can
be learned, the premier's conference with
a large body of representative Lister
men was disappointing,
Jt is understood that the question or
the general disarmament of forces in Ire
land not authorized by the government
was discussed and, although those pre
ent were pledged to secrecy, it is rumored
that cold water had been thrown on the
proposal. The discussion was very full
and frank, but it is asserted that the re
sult was unsatisfactory.
Sir Edward Carson s telegram to the
Lister Unionist council, to the effect that
he had no knowledge of rumors respect- Burlingtou, May 16 Stoddard B. Mar
ing the government of Ireland, did not tin, former owner of the Martin houee, a
bring about an alleviation of the situa- hote, fit Korth FerrlflDurg w foullJ
r mil Knltnar itaalf Hioa mat ahrtur O nv I
iens of accenting the compromise which. aeaa morning at the nome oi ms
it is understoo
offer. Ulster
tireiy unartected ny tne recent reoeinon ... turnpd on whfi h. TeVired
and the provisions of martial law have ,. .. . ... , .. . addition in h uul ! m-rW drills. Progressive: and only a single name
... i f i 1 :tu. luaruii hib a mute ui .uiuuibuui? - - - -
not been enforced. I fhern will l rnrnrh r . Una .t.mti .tjn a I ,- thai kin "WViorlrOW
i.- .1.! . i ji l il. inH uii 7 v.ar. nf uam Ha vii 11 . n. r-.'r'vu in -
Averviiiiiig ouiwaraiy caim, uui mc - -e- -- chas ncr. sword and havoncf. content, na- l-;i... T-i..foT. V .1" under the col
keenest interest underlies the surface ap- cousin of Xorton F. Allen of Jvorth ter- rades, auard mounting, etc. The last m lalwded Democratic. Secretary of
pearance and many Ulsterites declare rishnrir. The funeral will be held at that event will be a tent witchinc contest in Rit Guv V. Railev irave official notice
their determination to have no dealings ,.. Th.iro.tav which a number of the new army pyra- that the conditions of the filing of names
vvnn tne isauonaiisis. jui tne newspa- - - mldal tents will be erected. These will had been com pied with by no other can
. y if a -.: a: i I I. . ... . I . "
pers in jm-iibsi aavise caunon in regaru ne occupied at nignt oy tne cadets ot tne didate.
to any promises that the premier my rTDHf AM r,I?'C,'r A TiV university, while their rooms will be giv- Therefore, the voters went to the poll
have made, but which are not yet, public I "J-i J.n'ii.Ai uuiinuu pn over to gl(cn number 0f he business with their own work in view, providing
property. ATTACK FAILED men's organizations who have loaned thev were not Democrats and supporters
Jlr. Asquith, who arrived in the pri- . their machines as may care to remain of Woodrow Wilson, because it became
vate motor car of Baron Wimborne, for- A 1 1 iilA U jjlUJN 1 over night. Some of the infantry organ- incumbent upon them to write in the
FUNERAL OF
G. B. MILNE WAS
LARGELY ATTENDED
He Was Formerly Proprie
tor of Hotel at North
Ferrisburg
see the gTeat benefits to be derived from Vermont's First Trial of the
the experience in store for both company I . .
.rrimary jjucs rsuL in util
ise a Large Vote
commanders and the machine owners or
drivers. Among those who are qualified
to pass on the vtf.us of such a mobiliza
tion and who have been in hearty sym-
I pathy with it are Limit. .1. C. Waterman,
U. S. infantry, the inspector-instructor
of Vermont National Guard, and Lieut. Votini? beuan at noon throughout Ver-
Ralph M. Parker. I'. S cavalry, professor mont and wiH continue untii 8 o'clock
of military science and tactics and com- ... . , .
mandant, Norwich university. io dtermme the preference
The exhibition of mounted and dis- of the voters, in three political parties
1 " . ." L...L1 . mounted drill to be civen by the firBt fnr nre.iHential nominees in 1916. The
od, air. t e.rast is ready i c" """7 squadron of cavalry, V. N. (5 , that d th ' . art es named on the official ballot
capital was almost en- by illuminating gae which was accident- fo'r tfle vigiiin(r tnipi dmlU thiee parties named on the omual wi ot
ly turned on when he retired. creatlv appreciated by the visitors. In ",e i'""" -
Mr. Martin was a native of Middlebury addition to the usual close order drills. Progressive; and only a
id w R7 v nf a0 H was a tnrre wi" be rough riding stunU, steeple appeared in print, that beii
id was B7 years of age. He was a chasing 8word and Uyonet contegtg( pa. ii80n Princeton, N. J.," v
mer lord lieutenant of Ireland, was ten
dered a luncheon by the lord mayor and Fr.ch Official Statement Savs the Oner.
.1 1. - T .1 - C ' . 1. l A .1 '
iuvn iit'iu it ctiiuerence wun huuul h uua
ation was Weak Bombardment of
Positions at Avocourt Wood and
About Hill 304 Continues.,
en leaders of the local commercial com
munity. This conference lasted three
hours, after which a brief official state
ment was issued to the effect that the
premier, at his own request, had met a
few citizens with whom he had had a
full and frank discussion concerning the French P"'Uons at Avocourt wood a
Faris, May 16. The bombardment of
nd
I iations are planning to remain over un-jname of their choice for president or to
til the following day. l hey will sleep insert a sticker waring that name, to
in their shelter tents, which will be erect-1 eether with the further requirement of
ed on the university upper parade. marking a eroes after the name whether
Governor nates has slgnilied his inten- the name was written, printed or amxea
tmn oi being present, tie win be met at by sticker. Failure to mark the cross in
the railroad staion by a special escort. validated the ballot.
Hot coffee will be provided for the vis- this was Vermont's first presiden
iting troops by the first seuadron, and tial preference primary and the voter
win oe served on arrival oi tne troops at had not become accustomed to tne new
present status of affairs. Immediately
after the conference, Mr. Asquith re
turned to Dublin by Riitomobile. He was
enthusiastically cheered by thousands of
the populace.
WANT BREAK WITH ENGLAND.
CARRANZA WILL TRY
TO PATROL PARRAL
Also to Protect the Mexican Side of the
Big Bend Country from Visits
of Bandits.
i Washington, I). C, May 16 The net
result of the military conference between
Scott and Obregon, as reported to-day to
recretary of War liaker, was to convince
the Carranza government that the United
(States' purpose in the exjtcdition was to
stamp out brigandage, aud that as a con
sequence there now exists substantially
n unwritten understanding that the
larranza lorces win enueavor to demon
etrate their ability to handle the situa
tion as the necessary first step toward
the withdrawal of the American expedi
tion.
Scott believes that Obregon is acting in
good faith and that the border situation
is less critical. Obregon agreed to police
the Parral district and put a big patrol
along the Mexican Bide of the Big Bend
country and not have big forces in Persh
ing s rear. Scott promised not to dis
pose of the American forces to embarrass
the Mexican operations and to strength
en the American border patrol.
Boston Irish Memorialize Congress to
Take Action.
Boston, May 16. A crowd that filled
Tremout temple last night in memory of
the Irishmen executed after the Dublin
riots stood in silent prayer in tribute to
the dead, heard several speakers denounce
Kngland, and passed resolutions 'favor
ing the immediate severance of all diplo
matic relations with that government
(England) as an enemy of every princi
pie this country stands for."
A large crowd was unable to obtain
admission to the hall where the meeting
was, and an overflow meeting was held
on Boston common.
The resolutions protested against the
"cold-blooded massacre" of Irish citizens
about Hill 304 still continues, according
to the French official statement to-day.
A weak German attack with grenades
to the northwest of Thiaumont farm was
repulsed. In the Woevre district shell
ing is proceeding along the sector or
Lix-Moulinville. The rest of the front
is quiet.
1 p. m.
Camps
"SANGUINARY LOSSES."
Inflicted on French Who Were the At
tackers, Says German Report.
Berlin, via London, May 16. The re
pulse by Germans of several attacks
against positions on hill 3M. with san
guinary loses to the French, was an
nounced to-day in the war office statement.
STAYED A FEW MINUTES.
HO milpfi want, of here on the Trnntrnn
Then the iermans were Ejected By the tinental railroad
British.
PRISONERS REVOLT.
Austrians Interned In Canada
Were Fired Upon.
Cochrane, Ont., May 16. An outbreak
among Austrian prisoneis of war in the
internment camps at Kapuskaeing last
Friday was quelled by the military au
thorities after one of the prisoners waj
killed, nine seriously wounded, several
fatally ami tour siigutly injured, it was Uh(.r, ha(, !.,, a gr0wing Hughes senti
learned here last nignt. I ment all through the etate despite the
The revolt is said L have been started efforts of workers for isew England rnen
by about 300 Austrian prisoners, who to develop strength for their candidates
were removed from the camp at Pena- and. too, denpite the fact that itugnes
Hum, where they had refused to work has been decidedly recalcitrant as a can
and had turned on their guards. They didate, having refused to permit the use
were taken last Wednesday under heavv of his name, as had Theodore Roosevelt
guard to the Kapuskasing camps about The Progressive party selection was
practice, there was not a large turnout
of people. Moreover, the wet weather
conditions served to cut down the voting,
It was not expected, in consequence, that
more titan a minor fraction of each party
would participate in the primary
As to the results, it was a foregone
conclusion that Woodrow Wilson would
be the choice of the Democratic voters
for renomination. The Republican pref
erence was somewhat in doubt, but all
signs early this afternoon pointed to the
selection of Charles E. Hughes of ew
York, justice of the united States su
preme court. During the past few weeks
VILLA HAS RECOVERED
And Is Attempting to Raise a New Army
in Durango.
Held Headquarter in .Mexico, via
wireless. May 16. Villa has recovered
from his wounds and has been busy for
several weeks attempting to raise a new
army in imrango state, according to a
story told by a Mexican captured in a
recent engagement.
BUILDING COLLAPSE
KILLED 9 PEOPLE
Crowd of People in Akron, 0., Restaurant
Were Buried in a Mass of Debris
Militia Called Out to Aid Police.
Akron, )., May 16. Nine persons are
known to have been killed, two are inir,
i2 and a score were injured, some prob
ably fatally, when the building housing
the Crystal restaurant collapsed during
the dinner hour last evening as the re
sult of a dynamite blast in an adjoin
ing excavation. The restaurant, which
was in the old Beacon-Journal building in
the center of the buoiness district,
crowded with diners at the time of the
rrvh.
Seven of the nine bodies recovered
Iiav been identified and the two mising
persons, who are known to have been in
th restaurant, re believed to b till
in tb great pile of broken timbers.
tmitvi steel and tons of brirks and
mortar. Htt ery B. field artillerv, Oh'o
National Guard. i tailed out to aid
the police In handling a crowd of in.-CKi
jTon hich packed nearby streets.
Krui work ti quirkly orgnnifd
nd volunteers, under the d:rertirn of
police and freirwi. dug into tie ruin.
j-uM.ng out the ir-jured and removing
the boLea.
The new arrival continued to mani
fest a spirit of insubordination at Kan
tiakasing. The smouldering unrest cul
minated Friday into a not and the
guards fired on the prisoners,
bayonets were used treely, it is said.
"We call iinon the government of the i - t ..i i . r and the outbreak in which other pris
I - " .... i-a ItdRBrn rlBl. 1 Mill fl 1 1 a l 1 V CHRL III I ..... . .
United States," continued the resolu- the former nl.ee the enmv lw.mh.rH.,1 10"" participated, was not quolM (or
tiens, to express to the British empire heavily a small section of our trenches
through its ambassador in Ixmdon, its and a raiding party succeeded in cntcr-
norror aua aeiesiauon or me crimes r them, but on v for a few m unites
against humanity, morality and religion, "Meanwhile, further north we subject
London. Alav 16. The following official
and denounced the American press and communication was issued last evennig:
people "who by their support of the Brit- "Yesterday evening and during the
ish propaganda have aided the British njght there was considerable activity on
in ' the crime of Dublin." our front between Loos and Bethune and
perpetrated and being perpetrated in this ed the German positions near the Hoh. n
hour in Dublin. xollern redoubt to a heavy and effeetivj
"In view of these crimes and the nu- bombardment. Further north still, iu-t
merous offenses of the British govern- south of the canal, the enemy exploded
ment against tne nonor, tne rignts, tne a mine 25 yards in front of our trenches
peace and the commerce of the United and eeized the crater. After a sharp
&taies, we tavor tne immediate sever- bombardment with trench mortara cur
anee of all diplomatic relation with that infantry secured the lip of the crater
government, as an enemy of every prin- capturing one prisoner and finding ecv
ciple this country stands for
"We call upon the senators and con
gressmen representing this common
wealth in Washington to support the so
called 'Dyer reaolution' or any other res
olution expressive of the detestation of
eral dead Germans in the crater.
lo-day both sides exploded mines
north of Hulluch, but no infantry fight
ing took place. We earned out a sue
cessful bombardment of the enemy's wv
sitions opposite Frauquissart. Our artil
the American republic of the crimes now frv silenced enemy trench mortars in the
being perpetrated in Ireland.''
Mayor C'urley in introducing the chair
man of tbe meeting, Joseph F. O'Connell,
said that he would be remiss in his duty.
if he tailed to respond to the "righteous
call of suffering humanity."
It would appear, he said, "that after
seven centuries of persecution of oppres
sion and savagery that the people of Ire
land had earned the right to home rule."
neighborhood of St. Eloi.
ITALY BEGINS TO CURTAIL.
NEW U. S. SUBMARINE
CAN CO 5,500 MILES
The L-ll, Launched at Quincy, Mass, Is
the Largest Underwater Boat in the
American Navy She Is 170
Feet Long.
Quinev, Mass., Mav 16. The subma
rine L-ll, the last of seven vessels of
this cls built by the Fore River Ship
building corporation, wan launched to
la v. j he submarine is 10 feet long and
is one of the largest underwater boats in
the United States navv. She will hava a
cruising radius of SVK) miles.
May Fix Maximum Prices on Provisions,
Says Rome Report.
Rome, via Paris. Mav 16. The cabinet
isHiied reports to-day prohibiting the im
port ation of luxuries and bulky articles
rmt of prime necessity, such as pianos
and furniture. This step was taken to
remedy the difficulty of securing freight
age for government supplies and neces
sary foodstuffs. The government is also
couriering the establishing of maximum
prices for provisions and making a more
extended use of female labor.
WILSON SEES ARMORED CAR.
the
ARREST OF CASEMENT
WAS DESCRIBED
BY POLICEMAN
He Testified that Casement Refused to
Answer Questions Until a Gun Was
Levelled at Htm He Tried to
Drop Roll of Paper.
London. May in. The testimony at
the taisement hearing to-day was large
ly concerning the landing of the party
t Trallee. Mary Gormsn identified Case
ment as one of the three men who landed
from a submarine early on Good Friday
morning.
A farmer told ahout finding a collap
sible bat, and children told of finding
revolvers on the hore. Others told of
seeing signal limits at sea on the pre
vious nirht.)
(Issement arrwsred entirelv at his esse
and smileH cheerfully when be took bi
eat at the opening. Bailey alo wa
nrre c.mpfjte4 thsn tc'terdsy.
Nejrant Jhn Hearne of t'ie Pnysl
mitted to the eawtitiv r.rrsrnr. The! Irish constabulary nt fie.1 of a host
president c batted only a moment with beirg found and he tid r,f arretn
his uniformed vi:w" h t once de- I ' "ssemect. bo claimed to be in author,
parted th his e-ort to o II iijvn the. Me refuel to answer qn'tton nnt 1 a
ials of the Navy lesj-ue and later fojrifle s levelled at him n te mr
mnt'T over to FU'tinw.re. i-ere ie wi'l'to the Mati.'wv he dropped a r 11 of j
tke part in a rirsd-; next Thursday, per !,xh the p. dice rC(er-L
Maasacausetts Machine Reaches
White House.
Washington. May 16. Private Wil-
ism H. rorrest, eighth Massachusetts
nfantry, riding in an armored car
equipped with two machine guns and
escorted bv a detsil of the district Na
tional Guard under Sergeant C. W".
Moore, drew up in front of the White
House offi.es veeriy and st once bd
the whole police force on the .j,n ire.
The Bay State seller merely te
bearer, however, of a Mter of intrdiic
tion from Oitcrm-r Samuel W". NM'a't to
President W:!on. and wis at once ad-
several hours. There were no casualties
among the soldiers.
Major-General Sir Sam Hughes, minis
ter of militia, last night sent General
Logie, commanding the Toronto military
district, to Kapuskasing to take charge
of the situation and report to him.
RUBLEE'S NAME REJECTED.
of
He Had Been Working as Member
Federal Trade Commission.
Washington. D. C, May 16.- The nom
ination of George Rublee of New Hamii-
shwe, aa a member of the federal trade
commission was rejected yesterday by
the Renate. Senator Gallinger. the Re
publican leader, had opposed the nomi
nation for 15 months on the ground
that he was "personally obnoxious" to
him and the power of the senatorial cour
tesy tradition was so great he won his
point by a vote of 42 to 36 in spite r.f
even more uncertain than the Republi
can; and indeed it was doubtful whether
a very large numlter of Progressive votes
would be cast. Roosevelt, who might be
considered the logical candidate of that
party, was just as likely to Teceive as
Rifles and "'""J votes umicr ine rvepuoncan column
as under tne rrogressive. nui as ibt as
the two leading parties in the state are
concerned, the result of the preference
primary is almost certain to be Wilson
vs. Hughes.
Just what effect that expression of
preference will have on the state conven
tions to be held later in the month is un
certain. In conjunction with the pri
mary, caucuses are Wing held to-day to
elect delegates to the state conventions,
the Republcan to be held at Montpelier
May 26 and the Democratic at Burling
ton on the day preceding the Republican
assembly. The choice of the voters to
day might be expected to have consider
able influence on the action of the con
ventions, but it is not obligatory.
The Primary in Barre.
Apart from the lethargv that has
marked the general feeling toward the
preferential primary, the unpropitious
weather conditions probably inveighed
against the election in Brre to-day. The
six polling places, one in each ward, were
opened promptly at noon, but the influx
of voters was not large enough in any
instance to tax the election officers.
Service Were Held at Hi Late Home" on
Spaulding Street, Representaives of
Many Organizations Being
Present.
Barre to day paid tribute to one of it
leading citirena when the funeral of
George B. Milne, whose death occurred in
Denver, Col,, Thursday, was held at the
Milne home. 28 Snauldinar street. The
re nu I ns of Mr. Milne arrived in the city
yesterday, accompanied by Mrs. Milne
and son, George Edmund Milne, and ti
W. Varnum of Boutwell, Milne 4, r
num. who met the funeral patty in Clii
cago. .services were held at ociock
this afternoon and the occasion brought
together a very large company of rcl
tives, friends, business associates and the
representatives of various interests with
which Mr. Milne had been identlhed.
Operations at the Graniteville quarries
of Boutwell, Milne A. Varnum were sus
pended to-day and the company's offices
on North Main street was closed. Many
employes of the concern and practically
the entire staff of office assistants in
Barre and at the quarries were present
at the funeral. Recognition by the city
of Mr. Milne s deep interest in the wel
fare of the community was paid by the
presence of several city officials, includ
ing members of the city council, and the
board of trade and other organizations
were represented.. The seating capacity
of the house was exhausted and many
were standing during the service, so gen
eral was the desire to pay a last tribute
of respect to the deceased.
The community also recognized in va
rious ways the passing of a citizen who
had its interests close at heart. A very
large number of the places of business
along North Main street had their cur
tains drawn during the services.
The officiating clergyman was Rev. Ed
gar Crossland, pastor of the First Pres
byterian church, and he was assisted by
Rev. John B. Reardon, pastor of the
Barre Universalist church. The service
was of a simple nature, Rev. Mr. Rear
don offering the prayer and reading from
the scriptures, and Rev. Mr. Crossland
paying tribute to the memory of Mr.
Milne in feeling words. George F. Mac-
kay sang "Just as I Am Without One
Plea" during the service.
The bearers were: IT. W. arnum.
Mayor James M. Boutwell of Montpelier
and Guy R. Varnum, members of the
quarrying corporation. City Clerk James
Maekay, lrgil h. Avers and Alexander
Milne.' Knights of St. Aldemar com-
mandery, No. 11. K. T., members of Gran
ite lodge. No. 35, F. and A. M., Hiawatha
lodge, No. 20, I. O. O. F., and Clan Gor
don, No. 12, 0. S. C, were present in uni
form at the services, the four organiza
tions acting as an escort while the body
was being taken to the cemetery. Other
organizations with which Mr. Milne was
associated were represented as follows:
Barre Burns club, the fclke, Goddard
seminary trustees, Mount Mnat tempie
and Barre City hospital tnistees. Inter
ment was made in the Milne lamiiy lot
n Elmwood cemetery.
Among those from out of the c.itv who
attended the funeral were: Dr. Frank
Clapp of Grafton. Mass., Mrs. Dickie and
William and Jamee Dickie of Waterbury,
Mrs. Daniels of Morrisville, Henry Ketch
am, Mrs. H. W. Varnum of Jefferson ville,
Mr. and Mrs. Jsmes Henry of Williams
town and Mrs. J. M. Boutwe'U and Miss
Rumsey of Montpeliar.
Some of the contributions in an un
usually beautiful floral tribute, apart
rom the individual tributes, were as
follows: (Ian Gordon, wreath; Granite
Manufacturers' association, wreath;
iranite chapter, keystone; Quarry Own
ers association, wreath; t. Aldemar
commandery, cross and crown; Boutwell,
Millie & Varnum, 76 American Beauty
roses; quarry employes of Boutwell,
Milne A Varnum, anchor; Odd Fellows,
wreath; Mount Sinai temple, crescent;
fficers and directors of the Quarry Sav-
ngs Bank & Trust Co., pillow; Barre
ltv hospital trustees, roses; stockhold-
rs of the Barre Hotel Co.. roses; trus
pes of Goddard seminary, roses.
SENTENCED
FOR BURGLARY
Charles Gilchris Given' One
Year's Term for V 'oil
field Bre? 'a ,
BARRE Y0T GUILTY
OP: FOWAY CHARGE
Ora Kellogg Was Sentenced
and Then Placed in Hands
of Probation Officer
Charles Gilchris of Marshfleld pleaded"
guilty in Washington county court yes
terday afternoon, when arraigned on a
burglary charge before Judge F. M. But
ler, and was given a sentence of not less
than a year nor more than a vear and a.
ialf in the house of correction. Gilchris,
according to the information filed by the
state's attorney, burglarized the house of
Dan Abbott in Marshfleld on Jan. U.
Ora Kellogg of Barre pleaded guilty to
charge of forgery, was sentenced to the
house of conduction for not more than a
year and a half, fined $20 and given two
montns in wnich to pay, the sentence be
ing suspended and the respondent placed
in charge of the probation officer It ia
alleged that ho forged a check for the
amount of $20, using the name of M. C.
Cutler.
Although a chancery case was listed
for hearing this forenoon it failed to ma
terialize land court was not engaged. It
is expected that final adjournment of
the present term will take place Friday
or Saturday, if two state cases are dis
posed of by that time, the cases being
State vs. Lillian Robinson, perjury, and
State vs. Charles Wyome of Moretown,
arson. In the kttei case the respondent
1 i.. : i . f . rt
jmo rrimnea w imam ivora and A. l.
Theriault as counsel. " The jurors have
been given instructions to report to-morrow
noon, when, presumably, one of the
bove cases will be tried.
a vigorous and insistent hght by the ad- j00ths for the balloting were erected
ministration for nomination. vesterdav and this forenoon Alderman
Mr. Rublee, who has been serving on Rossi, chairman of the elections commit-
the commission since soon after it was tee, distributed to each polling place a
created, will lose his post and draw no bundle of twllots sealed and secured bv a
salary for his work unless the enate s padlock. W ith one or tw o exceptions the
action is reconsidered. Five Republicans election officers who served in the March
voted for Ins confirmation and 14 IVmo- elections were at the polls to-day.
crats voted against it. I Fewer than a do.cn votes had been
After the roll call, which followed a I polled in the ward 6 booths at city hall
hitter debate. Senator Mollis of New I when an hour had passed. Shortly after
Hampshire, who led the fight for Rub-I 1 o'clock only a few more than a dozen
lee. chanced his vote in order to move had been Killed at Spaulding school in
for a reconsideration. This mav bo done
at another executive session in the near
future.
KILLED BY DERRICK.
Quincy Granite Worker Struck By Fall
ing Mast.
Quinev. Mass.. Mav I". Pekka Kain-
kainen. 22 veers oid and unmarried, of
M West street, this citv, was fatally in
jured yesterday afternoon when a BO foot
dernck at the qimrrv of Oscar Djers fell
and pinned him benesth it.
After haftikainm had been taken from
beneath the fallen derrick be was rushed
to the Quincy hospital, but died immedi
ately following hisrnval. He sustained
a fractured skull and his right leg and
rm were broken.
QUARRY ENGINEERS STRIKE.
Refuse to Work with Nonunion Men at
Milford, Mass.
Milford. Mass.. May IL-Kivr station
rr enirineers of the Webb Granite Co.
plant here struck vesterday on au-coiint
f the employment of a nonunion en
pneor. I hi .1!"H somewnat affced
the oprrst'.on of the Hitting- shei. Siift.
A. P. Hedberg lock no a-tion, pending
the matter W-ns tskn up bv Harrss H.
Sbermsn. pri:rt of tHe company.
I m m Tre. T. J. "tonnl! aii tJt
t'-e di-f'i-vilt v w til l b a tjttMH
The er!v.ee'' utikmv ,3 hs.l a r,e-'l
ward 2 and the number of ward l voters
who had elected to register their prefer
ence was not large at l o'clock. The pre
diction was made that more votes will
be polled from 4 o'clock until the polls
close at 8 o'clock than from noon until 4
o'clock. 1 he boxes will be turned at 8
o'clock as required by statute and the
returns will lie registered at the citv
clerk's office.
Two Caucuses in Barre To-night.
Two partr caucuses will be in progress
this evening while the tellers are count
ing the ballot in Ba rr's fi rst preferen
tial primary. The city council having
arranged to hold its reirular session in
the office of the water opartment, the!
Republicans will convene in the eotim-u
chamber at city hall,' aa the court room
is being used aa a polling place for th
..ixth ward. Delegate and alternates to
the ftate convention in Montpelier May
Irt and a city committee for the ensuing
two veers are to be elected. The limo
crsts are to meet in the Tavilion thestre
t o'clock to elei-t dolcpates and alter
nate to the state and district conven
tion t. be held in Burlington May 25.
ARSENIC WAS FOUND
In Stomach of Mrs. Virginia Giovanelli
Who Died Last Week.
A report received this morning bv Dr,
J. W". Stewart, city health officer, from
the state laboratory of hygiene at Bur
lington, stated that the stomach of JIrs
Virginia Giovanelli, whose death occurred
at her home on Third street la-st Thurs
day, contained traces of arsenic. The
positive resiKinse to the test for arsenic
is said bv the authorities to indicate sui
cide. The report was submitted by Dr.
B. H. Stone, the state pathologist, after
the local authorities had forwarded the
woman's organs to the laboratory, fol
lowing an autopsy Friday morning. Mrs.
Giovanelli's funeral was held Saturday.
SIX DOGS ATTACK YEARLING.
Farmer Investigates and Shoots Three of
the Canines.
Sheldon. May 16. n hearing some
dogs barking yesterday Arthur Terry
took his gun and went out to investigate.
He found six dogs attacking a yearling
on the farm of his neighbor, Weeks
Graves. The animals had the animtl
down and were biting it when Mr. Perry
came in view. Thn-e of the dogs got
awav but Mr. Perry shot and killed one
of the three remaining and injured the
other two. It is thought tbat the year
ling will live although it was severely
bitten and was almost exhaucted.
Many Cases Nol Prossed.
After a review of the docket yesterday
fternoon by Judge Butler and State's
Attorney Gleason. only one case was
marked for trial, State" vs. Lillian Rob-
nson of Barre, perjury. Others, how
ever, were passed to allow the states
ttorney to investigate and it may be
that others will come up for trial by
jury, but it is not probable.
i Entries were made in the following
cases: State vs. P. W". Perkins, dealer in
Christmas trees, found guilty by jury in
1913, fined $300, judgment reversed and"
cause remanded by supreme court, nol
prossed; State vs. Irvin A. Norcross, ob
taining money under false pretenses, con
tinued; State vs. Raymond Abbott, fur
nishing, nol prossed; State vs. Edson
Willey, rape, nol prossed; State vs. In
toxicating Liquor, Eusevia Ordonez,
keeper, an appeal from Barre city court,
nol prossed; State vs. Intoxicating Liq
uor, B. Rueda, keeper, apt., nol prossed;
State vs. Intoxicating Liquor, Jose Man
ual Cevalloj, keeper, apt., nol prossed;
State vs. Charles Magoon, mayhem, con
tinued, the respondent being confined in
the state hospital and will probably nev
er recover: State vs. Levi Morvvay, white
slave, continued, respondent in state hos
pital for insane; State vs. Oliver Pccor,
perjury, has served sentence for bigamy
in connection with the same charge, case
left on the docket; State vs. Anina Co
guir.i, adultery, continued; State vs. Eu
sevia Ordonez, selling, nol prossed; State
vs. L. Contollo, selling, nol prossed; State
vs. George H. Cross, manslaughter, con
tinued; State vs. Joseph Canales, false
pretenses, restitution has been made, the,
respondent being employed at Greenfield,
Mass., continued.
Twenty-three cases were passed and of
this number a few may be taken up at
this term but in that event it is expected
that they will be disposed of without a
trial. Cases in that class follow:' State
vs. Intoxictaing Liquor, Tibaldo Gabel
loni, keeper, apt.; State vs. Eddie Milne,
Bcnnie Prestini, Henry Columbo, Fred
erico .Gi-icomlni, rape; State vs. Etta
Shover and Marshall Linlow. adultery.
SULLIVAN THOMPSON.
ATTACK REPULSED.
BRIDE DRINKS POISON.
Mrs. Mancini of Milford, N. H, Takesc a
Pint of Liquid.
Milford, X. H.. May Mrs. Annina
Manini is in a senom condition at the
home of her sister in East Milford. as
the rcMiIt of drinking a pint of disinfect
ant by mistake, if is supposed, within a
few hours aft.r her marriage Saturday,
night to Aniidio Mancini. Several dorters
orkM over her and it is believed she
!m rlisnce for recovery.
The br,,ic Mis Annir.a Grshuco
and hsd beon e-nployed at the IliIMmro
m
trectirg Ut rvnrg shout the MtuatiOB. M.k. but wer reruled.
Employes in One Slate Quarry Left
Work Yesterday,
roultney, Msy 11 The strike of slate
workers in th Mettowee valley has
spread to South Poiiltney an! yester
day about 4o men errp'oyed in the Shd
den quarry quit work, their grievan
heinjf r-tHl!y the me a in other
riant. They ak for a nmr-hoiir dav
. I he couple were msrne ! Saturda v 1 and to cents an hour im rease. It i
Germims A lulled tit Port in Portoeaese evening lv t'n. iorge A. Hukon atilkely that n?er ermont quarries i,l
1 U V . .
East Africa.
rri. Msy It. It is offw-iaiiv report
ei from P.-vring-ie East Africa tht hr!ink-. irfm-t the etab'ir merit in t' e Grtnvilie.
(rrrr nith flive and tree rns-l After ("ie fi.e.t rifi prte te J X. Y, urtili nhifh Hve been h ,t
bme gm t K-e attjkd le rt at lTi ie ilrtrk. t'e or-ntert f a large b"t-
Marriage of Bane Young Woman and
Schenectady Man Last Evening.
A pretty home wedding took place at
the home of Mrs. J. X. Roberts, 3.- H;ll
street, last evening at 7:30 o'clock. whe;i
her daughter. Miss Frances Thompson,
became the wife of George Sullivan, sou
of Mrs. W. A. Price of Prospect street
and a nephew of Mrs. George Earl of
South Barre. The ceremony was per-
formed by Rev. W. J. M. Beattie, rector
of the Church of the Good Shepherd, in
the presence of immediate family mem
bers and intimate friends of the briil.
and groom. Miss Violet Price, a cousin
of the bride, and John Anderson of Hill
street, attended the couple. The brida
was gowned in blue silk and carried
roses. Dainty refreshments were served
after the rersmonv.
Mr. and Mrs. Sullivan left on a lute
evening train for Schenectady. X. Y.,
"here they are to make their home. Mr.
Sullivan is employed in the plant of the
General Electric Co. in Schenectady.
STRIKE REACHES P0ULTNEY.
the hume of rer s;!er. a'fer which thre!be affected this week. There are 10 or
st a reception and jojhfi-alion hk h j 12 qitarriet in thi region which are op
leteJ i.t t n esrlv hour Sun-lay nvrn iei-sted bv tle same interest that con-
t of the powerful d.siaie tafit.
'Aiwa nearly a m-rtS baae of labof
t rc u hies.
