The Alliance Herald
The Leading Paper
of Western
Nebraska
3,000 Copies
16 Pages
2 Sections
r
READ BY EVERY MEMBER NEBRASKA STOCK GROWERS ASSOCIATION. ALL THE NEWS OP ALLIANCE AND WESTERN NEBRASKA
OFFICIAL ORGAN NEBRASKA VOLUNTEER FIREMEN'S ASSOCIATION. IT REACHES HEADQUARTERS FOR 15,000 FIREMEN
VOLUME XX 1 11
ALLIANCE, BOX BUTTK COUNTY, NEBRASKA, THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 1916
NUMBER 62
MILLION DOLLARS IN WELL AGAIN NAMED
GOLD FROM ALASKA
FIRE (COMMISSIONER
OUR LINCOLN LETTER
Valuable Vrgo May Ik Itouted II. F. Kiuart!e H-olntel tTilef
Through Alliance on Way to
Denver -Change Guard
While It la not generally known, It
Deputy-Neville Announce
HTe Appointments
State Officers Were Heckle lOnotigh
to h'Mt Turkey Dinner and Have
a Happy Thanksgiving
The democratic o01ccra-lect at
the capltol commemorated Thanks
giving with genuine feeling this
Volunteer firemen all over the year. One or two of them, more
is nevertheless a fact, that during state of Nebraska unite In extending recaiess man me oiucrs. even went
the past two or tree years literally hearty congratulations to W. S. Rid- so far as to buy a turkey for their
millions of dollars worth of gold gell ove rhls reappointment as Btate Thanksgiving dinner, and had the
builllon has passed through the city fire commissioner. Governor-elect dealer charge it to their next year's
f Alliance In guarded express cars Keith Neville has given the plum salaries.
ever the C. D. & Q. While the In- tree a little agitation with the result) Work of propping up the .east
habitants slept the trains have pulb- that Judge Itldgell is re-appointed, I wing of the state house was corn
ed In, made the necessary stop, as Is Chief Deputy Fire Commission- menced the fore purt of the week,
changed guards and sped on the way er II. F. Retiuartte. It has been ru- Several wagon loads of heavy tim
to deliver the gold to the United mored for some time that Judge Rid- bers have been unloaded on the
States mint at Denver. In practtc- gell, former Alliance citizen, would grounds, and before the legislature
ally every instance, it Is said, the again be named, and now It Is an ac-' meets next mouth it is Intended that
shipments through Alliance have tuallty. Judge Kidgell is very pop-1 the work will be completed arid ev
been made at night. The greatest ular with the volunteor firemen's as-,erything made so suro that the thun
secrecy la maintained regarding the soclations over the state and has'deiing oratory of the most virulent.
proven nun seir an earnest ana ei-iui niuiiumuiu ijcu ' j'
licient official. He is an official who i a fly oil the walls,
works. Mr. liidgell still maintains i The slate canvassing board flnlsh
hia monih.THhin in the Alliance vol-! cd canvassing tho returns of the
unteer fire department.
Now Oiiiue Wjirtlen
DR. BAKER IN ALLIANCE
President of Fidelity lUfwrve Cn
vany TiniiKnrUi.g HomIucsa with
District ajMl luteal Agents
shipments, and but few know any
thing about it- until afterwards. The
guards, which are changed here, do
not know they are to make the trip
until about thirty minutes before
leaving time. P. D. Roberta of Alli
ance hna mado a number of trips to
Denver and the mint aa a guard.
Out of Aal.ska tu Five Weeks
In about live weeks now it is esti
mated there will be a shipment of
late election the fore purt of the
week and placed their stamp of ap-
Gcorge Koster of Niobrara has piovul upon tne ceiuucato. mo 01
been appointed chief game warden to i liclul canvass shows that President
succeed Gust Kutenbeck, present in- j Wilson carried 82 counties in the
cumbent. Game Warden Kutenbeck j slate. Secretaiy of Suite Pool car-
has known for some time that heinea 77; biaie -treasurer nan, 10;
. - I . lik. HA. ... I 141.,..
gold leaving Seward, Alaska, for So- was to-be supplanted by a new man. , biaie auuitor cmmi, u, unu nui
altle. Whether this gold is for the "I have had the place four years," I ney General Ueed. 67. Goveri.or
Unlted Slates mint at Denver, wheth- says the game warden, "and that la , elect Neville wus elcc ed by 6.763.
nt If la fnr ntia if f ha .or i .at Divnt- e,TttT enouch. 1 believe in passing The returns show 'that without tno
mints, or whether it la for the gov- these things around a nine, wr. uougias county yoio m.
crnment at all is not known. But Koister. the new appointee, is a wen couiu nave oven nwi u,
should the shipment be for tho mint known hunter and trapper on the Ni- 400 plurality. A. O. Ihomas. for
. . I 1 .... .. .. ...... ....I.. (a... I. ..it .I'll ll I if I in I nil
nhmn. nni la hi nresent ruaniuK a i eiuie uuriiuicuunuu .o uvuh..
at Denver and should it follow the
aame course of travel as have the
other shipments during the past two
or three years it will be taken to
Seattle from Seward, placed in closely-guarded
express car and shipped
to Billings, Mont., over the Great
Northern, where it will be transfer-
hotel In the town where he resides.
He has a hunting lodge on the river
ond has always taken a great deal
or - Interest in birds and other ani
mals. Veterans Recognized
Colonel J. H. Presson of omana
red to the C. B. & Q., tho guarda ha been reappointed recording clerk
changed and the journey continued
to Alliance where another change
will be made in the guards and tho
shipment sent on it a way to Denver.
Ia Closely (auarded
The guards are compelled to 're
main with the gold until it reaches
the mint at Denver. - If tho gold
reaches Denver at night the express
car is switched to the mint and the
guard given a receipt there, other
wise the guard turns the gold over to
in the executive offices, and William
Words has been reappointed Janitor
far the mansion and executive of
fices. The reappointment of Col.
Presson as recording clerk by the
new governor had been expected, as
the cclonel has been a valuable ad
junct to the executive offices for
some time. A Lincoln dispatch In
commenting on Col. Presson's reap
pointment, says:. .
A good speaKer, wun a now oi
tho ovnruon onnmnnv nt ivonvor ami l:meims:e that would have made old
obtains his receipt from the com- Demosthenes or Bob Ingersoll green
pany, uth envy, Colonel Presson has many
According to advices received here tlmeB been called up)n to fill dates
Robert Griffiths and C. Haley, ex- for past; executives for several ad
press messengers, passed through ministrations and , be . filled - tnoBe
A In aim nr. NniromHar 99 nn riatPB With Credit. AS Writer , OI
their way to Interior camps to bring proclamations he has no equal .and
out golu shipments. They expect to the "horn of rlenty is always over-
return to Seward on their way to flowing wun aojecureo uu
Seattle in five weeks with at least high Jlaluting language which make
$1,000,000 In gold dust. tbosa proclamations things of beauty
Many operators in the Iditarod ana. joys torever.
and Inoke districts recently complet- The appointment
by the smallest plurality of any re
publican on hla ticket. Ho camo
within 1302 votes of winning out.
State Veterinarian J. S. Andeison
returned from Wauneta tho latter
part of the week where he hud been
tor several days investigating a re
port that the foot and mouth disease
was prevalent in that section. J. II.
Robertson of Chase county shipped a
car of cattle to Kansas City some
time ago and when tho cattle arriv
ed it was found that many of them
were afflicted with aa ailment simi
lar to the f6ot and mouth disease. A
complaint from Kansas City was im
mediately dispatched to Dr. Ander
son, and the shipment - Isolated. A
quarantine was-. . ordered and the
state veterinarian promptly Btarted
an investigation. After spending a
week in Chaso county Dr. Anderson
Dr. D. B. Baker of North Platte,
president of the Fidelity Reserve
Company, arrived In Alliance the
first of last week and has since been
working here and in neighboring
towns in connection with John W.
Thomas, district agent for north
western Nebraska, and Archie Greg
ory, locnl npent nt Alliance.
Dr. Baker practiced medicine in
western Nebraska for twenty-five
years. In his profession he Baw the
need and benefit of life Insurance Cd
such an extent that he became an In
surance enthusiast. After studying
the proposition until he became
practically ftn insurance expert, he
decided to give up hla large and luc
rntivo practice In order to devote his
entire time to tho life insurance bus
iness. A.i a result of his efforts, tho Fl
delHy Risnrve Company was organ
ized with the purpose of conservlne
and using all the good features of
other llfo Insurance companies ami
Improving upon those? features that
were susceptible of improvement,
with the object in view of Etvlng pel
Iqy holders tho best possible valuos
for the premiums paid. Dr. Baker
Is an enthusiastic exponent of tho
Idea that if a man la not a believer
in life insurance it Is because he does
not thoroly understand the prlncl
nlea Involved in a complete protec
tion policy. His Instructions to his
agents are to thoroly explain every
feature of the Fidelity Reserve Com
pany policy, knowing that where it
is tho best understood it is the most
popular.
HOLIDAY WAS WELL
, ENJOYED IN ALLIANCE
Just tho Right KIimI of Weather
Make Day Ideal Services In
the Several Churches
to
WOMEN'S CLUB TO SELL
RED CROSS SEALS HERE
Will V9 Their Percent to Pur
clinMe Mauitary DrlnkltiK Foun
tain for Alliance
The Women's Club of Alliance will
have charge of the local sale of Red
Cross Christmas seals this year. It
Is expected that a supply will be re
ceived within a few days, possibly
Hum ween, lo be placed on sale In the
vurloua business places of the city.
Business houses will probably be sol
icited and an effort made to place a
large nu ber of stamps. The Wo
men's Club Is endeavoring to secure
the necessary funds to purchase and
install a sanitary drinking fountain
to be erected In this city. A sani
tary drinking fountain will do its
part to relieve the possibility of the
carrying of the dread malndy via the
public drinking cup.
Ninety per cent of the money de
rived from the sale of stickers re
mains In the state, where It, -is spent
for publicity on ihe prevention of
tuberculosis, while ten per cent la
returned to the American Red CrosH
mid the National Association for the
prevention of tuberculosis, for the
rout of printing, packlig and mail
ing. The local club will receive a
percentage of the total gross sales
which they will apply towards the
purchase of a sanitary drinking
fountain.
May He Put on letters
The government allows the stick
era to be placed on all mall and par
cel post packages. The stickers may
be attached to express packages.
The sale of Red Cross stamps
started on December 1, but for cer
tain reasons those in charge of the
Alliance sale were slow In getting
their order in. However, when the
stamps arrive the sale will be start
ed and an effort will be made to
make ud for lost time. Mrs. K. R
J. Edholm, executive secretary for
the Nebraska Association for the
Study and Prevention of Tuberculos
is which Is the Nebraska distributor
for Red Cross Christmas seals, has
undertaken to distribute 600,000
BRISK CHRISTMAS .
TRADE REPORTED
Thansglvlng day dawned in Alli
ance with Just the finest kind of
weather one could imagine. It was
Holiday Stocks I.argo Mu h I toady
Money In Country-People Ituy
log Substantial (Jifts
Every Indication points to n big -
Christmas trade for Alliance mer- .
chants this year. The Christmas
trade has already started off brisk,
and It is expected will be In full
swing before another week rolls
around.
One of the very noticeable things
in connection with the holiday dis
plays is the sice of the Christmas
stocks, which are if anything largor
than usual. Ixwal merchants are
being kept more than busy between
selling merchandise for the holidays
and unpacking and displaying the
new shipments of Chrlutmas wares.
While already many of tho show win
dows and Interior displays feature
Christmas goods, yet new shipments
are being received dally. Kaatern
conditions have delayed the ship
ment of many of these lines, but are
now coming through.' The displays
in the Alliance stores are about us
large and complete an one will find
in most. any city, everything consid
ered, and are being enlarged each
duy.
Hano Holiday Season
The fact that people are buying a
better class of Christinas merchan
dise this year indicates a safe and
sane holiday season. While there Is
the usual purchase of toys and
things for the kiddies yet the sale Of .
furniture and goods in the . house
furnishing line are very substantial,
especially is this true in rugs and
furniture where there is no prospect
of any material price decline for all
of a year. Jewelers report good
sales of the better class, of their of
ferings. The clothing and men's
furnishing business la also good, ac
cording to the merchants, and is ex
pected to be heavy as the Christ nuui
time approaches.
' The 1916 Christmas trade prom
ises to be a record breaker for Alli
ance merchants. Never before haa
there been so much ready money
seals In Nebraska this year. Rod wuh which to buy gifts and with the
r.lnud and Central City have at
readv dlsnosed of large quantities
The for , er city, which has a stand-
weather Just right for turkey eat-! , committee on tuberculosis (
ing. football and such things. There J b Calhor chairman) has sc
.. iii a t f n rk r f f maf In InA All. . j a.
nam to the conclusion that it was v'r" "r,:. ': 3,000 seals anu venirai n for their snare, loo. Aireauy ono
ntt4he so-ialled "iot and mouth dis- W nugh "P"1 uLJone through Mrs. J. C. N.ylor, sub-agent or two lnsUncea of the purchase ot
L I but hat ! la ! known among vet- one, just right to make everyone ,nt anrt ftUo pr0Bldcnt of I automobiles for Christmas gifts are
liomatitus " or can- 'e 1 the Woman'. Club, sold Its Initial r(.pr,,d and a number of pianos are
ready cush It Is natural to expect
that a certain percentage of it will
be soent alonn about Christmas time.
Mrs. riano and phonograph dealers, aa
secur-; woii !. automobile men, are coming
Central City n for their share, too. Already one
orinnriuna as "stomatltUB. or can
kerous sores which form in the
mouth and on the tonguo. The dis
ease Is contagious, but not necessar
ily fatal. When' the malady is dis-
ed their season's work and reported
at Seward last week with gold ship
ments that they are taking to Seattle.
of Mr." Presson
ia a fitting recognition oi tne oiu vet
erans and will give general satisfac
tion. COUXTUY SCIKHMi TO IIAVH
KXIUB1T AND PROGRAM
An art exhibit will ''be held by
School District No. 3 at the Fairvlew
church, Friday evening December 8.
starting at 8 o'clock.' The beautiful
collection of pictures for the exhibit
r 1b olaned t,y the Lincoln fine Arts
rotations Pay 75 a Mouth and Hot- Shop. In connection with the exhlb-
. . A I A n.nlThlltll Will hfl CM Vfn
l" A1' I & thTschool chUdr-en. together wit h
lUaicetoJuatiry , The pro,.eeda f rom the
box social will be Invested in pictures
JOBS ARE OPEN FOR
MALE STENOGRAPHERS
tei
Men stenoeranhera : and tVDewrit
era are needed in the civil service de- for the school
partment of the United States gov
ernment. There is a groat need for
male stenographers, in fact for some
time the government has been una
ble to supply the demand., The us
ual entrance salary for opsitlons of
this nature are J900 a year, a few ;
appointments are made at $1,000 a
year, and extremely few at higher
salaries.1 Promotion is reasonably
rapid for those whose services prove
satisfactory. If there are men in
Alliance or western Nebraska who
are stenographers , and typewriters
and who are looking tor a jub that
pays $75 a month to start, ueie is an
opportunity. Examinations lor theso
positions will be held in Alliance on
January 9, 1917, uiiiK-r tua uirwctlon
of F. W. liicks, secretary of the local
civil service board. Tuere is such
an urgent need' mat it is probable
successful, applicants Will -'be at work
in the Uepariu-ental service at Wash
ington, D. C, in a snort tiuae.
Otuvr Jobs Open
' ' There are some other good jobs
open ihat could be tilled successfully
by men of western Nebraska. A
chemist's aid is needed. The pay is
from 7i0 to 11.200 a year. A den
tal interne (male) is wanted. The
puy ia $600 a year, with maiuteuauce
in Saint Elizabeth's Hospital. Wash
ington, D. C. A chemist (male) is
to be hired at a salary of $1,200 a
year. Physicians (male) for posi
tions in thtf Indian and Panama Ca-
mil services are needed. Ihe Inal
This Is the exhibit of its kind for
the country . schools, it is nopeu
that those Interested In the school
will show their Interest by attending
the exhibit and program Friday evening.
IIOTFl ACCOMMODATIONS ;(?!
WILL HK AT PUFJUICM
es
And the people proceeded to give ah,nmBnt of inno seals the day they helnB held at the stores t6 be dellv-
thanks. Members of Holy uosary wero received and have ordered 2.- t.red Bt Christmas time.
Catholic church attended mass at 6 j ftn() more to be dcllvcrea immodiate-j Many out-of-town people are drlv-
a. id 9 o'clock Thanksgiving morn- . ' ine in and coming in by rail to do
,al..; -, - mg. Rev.' Father Manning preacn- ... p m. nnlean: head of tho ,.". u;nl., .hmmincr and some ex-
coverea. tne state vei.er.ua, ..- . ThftnksKlvlnK sermon at the 9. r M r ,,Q ,ui f i "'IIV ,..... h.o ra
immediate, isolation, ana treat- ----- - Roth maaBe8 were p - ior cr,V0 ."'"k' -
emy, as me .. . Af Wi-.icr Nclinmlca. huvlnK i. ,...nt...iht unmni Aiilnnrn mer-
. i . riii..it. v . ... .... ... . - . in .1 t ....i.i.'.m.i.. n
repairs. Hnntthlllff. She knOWS ,.,, ,.u. thoir nrnnrll. Ther
Held inion nieeuiig f from practcai experience tho ravag- Vv El.nirg the merchandise and get
The Protestant churches or me f he deadly maady tuberculos- tln pad for what they sell.
city uunru iu me u.u.up, - , Horn in ivnnsyivania anu rnm-.
Thanksgiving service from 10:30 to . . tho large part of nf,r
inursuuy uiuiumir, . , , bt-.ai,i afflicted wun me
ment of the, following solution: One heW t S . Tgnes Acady
level teaspoonful permanganate pot- .neiaa l anerKOlnR repah
asli to one quart ui wuim -either
swab or syringe out the:
mouth. ... 1
Governor-elect Keith Neville came
in from North Platte Thanksgiving
morning, visited the state house a
few minutes and in tho afternoon
went to the football game. While
tiBt-A however. Mr.Novlll6 caused
two of the home guard to lift up
ices belnK held at the Metuoaisi
church. Rev. J. li. Cams was in
charge of the program. The music.
which was beautiful, was rurnisueu
under me
Truman. Rev.
drea ddlsease and only after a very
stubborn, fight by living In the opon
did she survive.
Now she has taken hold in the
work of selling Red Cross bchIs for
the benefit of persons less fortunate
two or me nom -L"k"-,V by the Methodist choir,
their voices in additional Thanksglv- ( 1 R T
ing praise because of mo announce- Mrintvre offered the prayer of "'vif 'h ,h .nealln to
eJlti rSTs oner.i Thanksgiving, Re. Layton of the en. and firm, in the state to aid
WTa ln a tu nther was Col. J. Baptist cnurcn reau tne i the movement against tubcrcuios-
.-. luutci, ... - i ThankselVlIlB Uay prociaumuuii.
Pron is a sort of neutral, non-Bee
tarian religious advisor to the gover
nor. ' His friends, and they are leg
ion, point: wuh pride to the fact that
no governor has ever gone wrong
since the colonel's Incumbency of
this Important position. One other
appointment was announced while
. .., . Mr Neville was nere, mat in ui s
There will crtalr.ly be something Mr vme wo fish
doing in Alliance when the state con-1 h' will take Oust
vention of county commissioners, bu- j "Xrk's Place. Mr. Rutenbeck
pervlsors ond clerks is neia nere , , t
i- . i i
H. Presson. record ng cierg ana Rev. W. M. Martin, the evangelist alf Million In Nebraska Refore
cral factotum or tno ow holdlnn revival meetings at the - Ml, whPft Mrs. Ruleau'more en
fice.; Col. Presson is a Pioncw napUrt cburch. preached a forceful Uved. the society wouienjance hi
Ptttriarcn oi tne m fii f t houcht aud help. ,., t nrA Cross iihplr sec
mont. As a matter of fact. oi. ------.;. taVtn , lhe '" - ft
I nu iiiihi lilK n nil u v " - ..... i nav n n n nnvw iir ii.iiiu au.uvu w .
V. A lltlta ra
cember 12. 13 and 14. Ttie Alliance
hotel reports that they atreuay nave
about all the reservations they can
take care of. The Drake hotel has
received a larxe number und Indica
tions are thut rooms will be at a
premium during this period. The
business aud entertainment features
of the . program seem to.appenl
stronRly to the membership ond it Is
not at all Improbable but that the
citizens will have to come to the res
cue and volunteer rooms for these
three days. ' ' ... .
The addresses of welcome will be
plven by Mayor Romlg and Earl D.
Mallery. president of the Commer
cial Club, and the responses by J. C,
Kennedy of York, president of the
state association, and C. E. Neuman
of Grand Island, president of tne
county clerks' organization.
The entertainment will consist ol
a bin theatrical performance tho
first night, a smoker the second plght
an service jobs pay $1,000 to $1,200 and a novel barbecue me closing ev
a year aud the Panama Jobs $1,800 entng. -
a year. A statistical agent (male) lMfUtISFY OF nritLINflTON DIF.S
is wanted for the Bureau of Fishery M(;KI S ".Vv 'sslstant to the
ies at $1,400 a year. mere- an , -,deBt of the Burlington andi
,,.u..i t. u for a ivurhnr nf H irr le u 1 1 11 re " jiiroiuouv , , ..'1
- rmer hCai or tne tirotneruoou oi
(male; In the Flandreau Indian j?al?"y Trainmen, died at his home
school in South ' Dakota. Job pays f.f'bu November 28. Tbe
J! : Snw'W l?b Ga.esburg
un I wa b-
Oregon, at
liance on Wednesday. Dec. 13.
December 13 and 14, examinations ! and lhe galen tool.
Will be held tor a laooraiory apyreu- , .72(j a yeaP
tice (male) at salary of $480 to Those who have the qualifications
$510 a year for work In Bureau of hould understand that there are
Standards. other positions continually present-
.- L t m InnSlnnaHflll' - II A
on uecemoer tuuuun n jng themselves ana it an applicant
be held for dairyman (male) in the quannei he is liable to appointment
Indian service at the Oneida. Wis., at any tmP,
says he has had the Job four years
and he thinks mat is ionn euuusu.
He believes In passing these plums
around occasionally. ' .
T. M. HAMPK ASSIMIIS
! IIADDOUFF MANAil3li:.NT
j
T. M. Hampe arrived In the city
Saturday to assume' the management
ot the Alliance store for the Haddorff
Music House. Mr. Hampe succeeds
C. T. Knapton, who goes to Casper,
Vj... to open up a new store for the
li.iddorff'B. .
Mr. Hampe for several years has
been the ruanauer of the wholesale
drparin-ent of the Haddorff business
and ci-mes to Alliance to remain here
..t ihi h vear. and probably longer.
Mr Hamne accompanied her hus
band brie and they will become lo
pied as soon as possible. Both Mr.
and Mrb. Hainpo are pleasant people
to weci and will no aouot oecome
senu'iitd (lulnUlV. '
Mr. Hampe has been in the piano
buslnen for something more than
hiiMiwn vonra and understands tbe
bupl.ieas thoroughly. Several of
ihe western Haddorff stores are un
der the supervision of the Alllanco
store, so that in addition to main
taining an efficient solllfi gforce for
the Alliance Btore. and the keeping
of a complete and up-to-the-minute
line of players, pianos, phonographs,
records and supplies, be must keep
the several other western Nebraska
siid eastern Wyoming stores going
to their fullest capacity.
Clean cotton rags wanted at The
Herald office. We pay three cents
per posnd. Woolen rags not wanted
Union Thanksgiving service was tak
dand green
n for the benefit of the poor of tho v..v vehr . where the state san
city, me tunas Dem lum i ttarlum for consumptives is locateu.
the city misslno. A canvass of thehag gent ,n it8 PCOnd order for 10
city was made and It is reported that 00Q gpaj9i yrota all over the state,
the committee rouna oniy iuur lo,u a0COrdtng to a letter j-ecetvea py tne
ill.'s in the entire city thai were pui- ,,eral(j from Mrs. Edholm, calling
tlally In want. . . I for more stamps are coming In and
Thanksgiving services were umu
by Dean William Carson Shaw at St.
Matthews Episcopal cnurcn i
o'clock in the morning. , t
At the FiMtttNtll l.aioe
ALLIANCE WON FROM
SCOTTSBLUFF HIGH
(rverwiielniitigly Defeat Opponent,
40 to 7 In Uno for Jtlack Hills
tiiamuUn.hn Now' ;
a crowd of five hundred or (
tbualastic rooters tne Alll-i
gh school football squad won
end tame from th Scotts-,
Llah ..iiu.l tKla flnlliill. at that.
stickers, nlnce. on i Tkankselvlng day. The
final score was 40 to 7. lhe win- -
nlng of this Kume places the Alllanco'
teanvliTiualltttn for the Black Hllui'
chaniplqpshiPAlllanc having A fif-J
ty-tlfty rhance with Hot Springs fori
the " honor. " Alliance has won-nva-
games this season, lost two and tledj
The
ance a
v. .Anhiiiinl thorn will he IIO ' fnr ,1110
trouble In disposing of 500.000. and Le PIuik- KffeUi- - -sbo
has set th vmrk at 600,000. The work of Alliances velerau
Fi'niS'nrf ve? Die state Mfrt' pVir- hark lk5 inline'prniUM, n nMy?on
hinir sealsrfnaWpastltig-sMckers seottsbliiff's rlgh , aide, the betfdy
football game between Alii ln nvprv i,..,r Bent out. f&'hert8 are i wirk of' Dickinson lh " skirt the
nd 'Scottsbluff high schools,' ' p0 ,pnn? u helpingstandti
staged at Scottsbluff. should have atr0mahH the University of'O
inciHl K large nu.i.ber from hero, ' . -hton collene. Bellevue.
and
but the fact that the train. due out of ljrov,nfir.H;illHnd many of tbemarr
here about 1 o'ciocb in me ilt?rMUU." ochial schools are selling mem,
for- the Bulrts did. not elave until --w--
about 3:34 O'ClocK Kept many MOKK Aisin "
. I . at GftLtltt. I
Those wno am go nirit.-u i ...v
hinfr Rhout 7 o'clock. A number of
the party returned mat eveimm.tu
Bridgeport, arriving there about 11
o'clock, where they attended a dance
until the train left Bridgeport about
2 o'clock. They arrived home about
4 o'clock. The football team re
turned on that train. Luckily the
team went to Scottsbluff Wednesday
morning or there probably would not
have been a game.
The day was Ideal for auto drivlug
and many took advantage of it. Oth
ers attended the theatre. The day
was one of rejoicing. Many camo to
spend the day with home folks. Oth
ers left to do the same thing, ,
CAMPAIGN' OVKIl AND MOXKY
HKMAIN IN TIIK THKAKl'KY
The expense Of waging the demo
cratic campaign In this state was
$21.1 al, according to the report filed
by Treasurer A. V. Johnson of the
democratic state committee, with the
county clerk of Lancaster county.
The committee emerges from the
conflict with a $444 balance. The
national committee contributed $10,-
022 to the state committee. Senator
Hitchcock and Keith Neville were
the heaviest Individual contributors.
In all there were over 2.000 donorB
from among Nebraska democrats.
AM-IAMKIUII.liOi.li!
The Elgin Review says: j
Uind owners" .and 'merchant 1 1
westerir Nebraska are Jubilant, , ofc-er
the report that the Burlington is
planning to commence work wt,
spring on the continuation or the ex
tension westward fronvO'Nell. "The
O'Neil line now runs out from, Sioux
City and its progress further into the
state will be a big boost for the
stockmen and farmers in that dit
trict. At Burlington headquarters
u was admitted that a survey has
already been run between O Nelll
and a 'point near Dunning on the
m.b iima linn of that railroad, and
that the value of this extension will
make It Imperative in me lmuifui
futur.. When the O'Nell-Dunnlng
extenstou is completed, the branch, s
now ending at Sargeant. Burwell and
iii h continued for a tew
fi'.. " :. n.t with u. this
m Ai-MfihiA network of eerv
ie inn through the central part of
the state. Alliance business men Rr
overjoyed at the prospect of th s im
provement, figuring that It will give
I .n.itinn between Sioux City
and Oiha and probably better
prices and markets.
Clean cotton rags wanted at Tbe
u...M We nav three cents
per pound. Woolen rags not wanted.
itlBg-sMckersi stottsbluff's rlh ,i
nRitifinla areiu.ru- nf-. Ilirlrlnsnn lit'
. a ....... 1 ... . . . .
nii'in ends and me general u w-?uf mi-.
CruHthK; I ward pass proved too tnuv-a lor i
Scottsbluff. who were weak and slow
In gettlnn In and tvefiklng up the,
plays. The - Hcotlsbluil -Star-Herald
in Its hews story cf he game had tna
following to say l . ... ... . . . ,
Pays AUianco tVwiipliiiKiit ...
"In wlnnlni? this game the Alli
ance team can inaVd A Just, plalnj for
. i .. t !.......!.. inn. I
the western nino ciiuiupiuu-i
Si:ittsblufr is lor them. They have
mronn team of experienced players
and the offensive work is as good aa
any of the lilgl schools in tn state.
Espetlully their; taiien lorraauou i
line" pluqgeB is effective. ScottsbluJ
was cliMJ-iy ouulassud except ia.tb
third quarter, when they showed' up
with some Kood fooiball. keeplug the
visitors iu the center of the field and
breaking up meir piuyu m
shape During tbe rest of the game
they lacked the punch and lost
through lnubility to break up the Al
liance passing ana enu-i uur.
S. ottsblua s only touchdown came In
lhe first uuarter anw aiih
kicked to the locals. Then by a
couple of line plunges, end runs and
a well-executed forward pass, Hood
went over the line ror a ou"u"7";
Many penalties were inflicted on the
Alliance team, mainly for offside
work and for holding. Scottsbluff
was penalized but once. Lot8Poi;
Captain Davenport in the backfield,
and Burns at right end did the most
effective work for tho visitors, while
Captain Burnham. Harper and 11.
(Continued on page 5)
