r
S
RNA
O
.LiujLulil
------ u
"JtXOBLSIOB,"
VOL. 35-EstabHshed 1832. GREENVILLE, OHIO; THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 1916 tuT?27
)
Gettysburg.
Rev. W. C. Mitchell of Wil
shire, appointed to fill out re
mainder of the conference year
of this charge left vacant by Rev.
J. 0. Hillery, removed to Toledo,
preached his first sermon here
yesterday morning. He made a
good impression upon his parish
oners and will doubtless be found
a useful pastor among his people.
. "Bob'' Seeds delivered the sec
ond number of our lecture course
last Thursday night, subject.
"Mistakes of Life," in our school
auditorium to a well filled house,
notwithstanding the inclemency
of the weather. "Bob" is a hu
morist and treated his audience
to a large grist of humor and sa
tire.. Every attendant got his
money's worth is a general ver
dict '
Otto Keck of the, city was a
business visitor hers yesterday.
J. H, Stoltz has been grading
the lot about his new residence
and is getting things in pretty
good shape for convenient use
and attractiye appearance.
Those of us whose turkey does
not roost on too high a perch
will grace our tables with the
fowl on next Thursday. The
probability is the turkey will be
somewhere else than here. We
will content ourselves with a less
ter will begin. During the month
the planet Venus will continue as
the morning star and can be seen
low down in the southeast before
sanrise. Jupiter will continue as
the most conspicuous object of
the evening skies during the en
tire month, while Saturn can be
seen late in the evening well to
the northeast.
COURT HOUSE NEWS.
PROBATE COURT.
W. L. and C. C. Pearce were
appointed administrators of es
tate of Matilda Pearce; bond
$6000.
Application filed for the ap.
pointment of a guardian for Jos
iah Grill. ,
Greenville, daughter of F. B.
It i
Rarick. . ' .
Order of ar.m9.aomai.f 'anA c..-
The winfrpr oV.oa ara inon in I
of real estate issued in estate of
Deaunrui stars ana Dnmant con- p M La-
-.i.11.-L' 3 0 1 - I
sanations ana a iew directions iMi j
Inventory and appraisement
J 1 i j 1 m I
x0riocangtnemmayDeoiken- fiIedinegtate of
. Ii i. TTT 11 1 I
crai interest, we au rememDeri fiali , . . ,.
I -... oiou w wat buersiup proper-1 '
, land Mollia' Slata 19 Aw,-.-.,.,-.
. i iy. ana petition to sell nprsnnai " "
flashed its latitude and lontritude I . . dauchtp kt Por qua I $1.
property at private sale; order of " uc'
u.u, uver u.e ucean, now .je
just as sailors locate a ship in
Abraham N. Sink, 22. farmer, Bubmyer, lot 25 in Savona, $800.
Ansonia, son of John Sink, and F. U. Schreel to Samuel J. Mc
Ethel Brandon, 23, Ansonia. Dowell, 40 acres in Allen town-
i
daughter of Eugene Brandon. ship. $3000.
Joseph J. White, 27, railroad- V. S. Marker to Clem McNutt
cr, Union City, and Edna P. Gar- lot 1178 in Greenville, $65.
rett, 27. music teacher, Union The First National Bank of Ar
City, daughter of Wm. Garrett, canum to M. A. Herman, lots 408
Noah D. Oldham, 20, farmer, and 409 in Arcanum, $420
Sidney, Ohio, son of John C. Old- Viola Noggle to G. H. Worch,
ham, and Iona E. Rarick, 26, 77 acres in German township, $1.
Elias Welty to G. W. Cupp,
lots 534 and 537 in Union City.
Paul A. Shank, 21, laborer, I1-
Arcanum, son of Edward Shank, G- w- Cupp to E. C. Baechler,
lots 534 and 537 in Union City,
OHIO ORYS ARE
PLANNINGFORWAR
Expect Slafo-Wide Campaign
NexlYasr.
hold mmm 1.1 mm
Five Thousand Delegates and Visitors
Will Attend State Trusties of Ohio
Anti Salcon League Are Expected to
Declare For a Prohibition Campaign
and Convention Wil! Plan For a Vig
orous and Aggressive Fight.
DRY STATES SOLVE
BREWING PROBLEM
Plants Now Employ More Men
Than Ever.
MAKE MANY USEFUL ARTICLES
this way, astronomer locate the
stars in the heavens. The dis
tance in degrees that a star is
north or south of the equator of
the heavens is called its declina
tion and the equator of the hea
vens, like that of the earth, is a
great circle through the stars
drawn half way between the
poles. .For central Ohio it pass
es through the east and west
points and crosses the meridian
south of the point directly over
head and a little less than half
way to the horizon.
First and final account filed m
estate of Louis L. Baltes.
Maud J. Pearce was appointed L Carl H
guardian of Hilda M. Pearce and
others: bond $1500.
David H. Lonp,f42, farmer.
Versailles,. D. 4, ion of Frank Don,t Neglect Your Cold.
S. Long, and Mary E. Althoff. Neglected colds get worse, in
37, Versailles R. D. 4, daughter stead of better. A stuffed head,
a tight chest must be relieved a'
CarlG. Ungerfcht, 25, drutr- once- Dr. Bell's Pine-Tar-Hon
cn'sr firponvillo ev is Nnfurv-'c
.Inniah ni:i nn. .-. - "i. l I.I
to ine uayton state Hospital. n -,. ' .
TT , . viireuynis, uitutsiiLer 01 viiver I c "'.tiocuuc tar loosens
j mv.iuivi nao appuiIILcU
administrator of estate of Henry
W. Schafer; bond $12,000.
Last will of Moses Holling'er
was admitted to probate and rec
ord. Jacob Hollinger was ap-
W. Craig.
COMMON FLEA3U0UKT.
NEW CASES. '
21001 Thomas Silvers versus
John Christian, executor of es-
pointed executor under said will; tate of Martin Christian; on ap
the phlegm, y!U breathe easier
and ycur cold is broken up
Pleasant to take, Dr. BelKs Pine
Tar-Honey is an ideal remedy for
children as well as grown-ups;
At your druggist, 25c. -Adv
bond $3200.
costly menu than the usual popu-
lar fowl for the occasion.
. Solomon Martin and wife of
Versailles attsnded divine ser
vices yesterday in our M. E.
church and afterward were the
' guests of Ed Cook's family.
An infant boy came to Mr. and
Mrs. D. Nease to bless their
home.
Mrs. Sarah Murphy had a sur
gical operation performed on one
of her eyes last Friday. So far
as can be known now the opera
tion seems to have been success
ful. , Rev. L. E. Carr will preach the
Thanksgiving sermon in our M.
E. church next Thursday even
ing. Nor. 27. XOB
Invenfnmr onA .
xu-ymct oi me longicuae oi me i , . . ..-
Itimrl in aaoirvmmsi.. Cii 1 ta
omyx aatiuiiuiiiera use me meat I pZPjj
it,.l i.U 1.1 1 I
.3. , , - Account of distribution filed in
cai raenaian or me piace on me 00i.af. TO n T
..... .uJ estate o W C- Denmston.
-ii axiUMn anu vail bins me I . ,
I Order of nnvnfo aala f
star's right ascension. It is L.
i ciui ucu in estate oi Mary
peal from docket oj: Squire Lam- j
mers. - - :
21002 Lizzie Mshepard ver-
-Si k
su3 Harry H. Shepard; for di
vorce and alimony, gross neg
Would Use Bone Depos
its in Pribilof Islands.
What the Secretary of Com
merce designates as probably the
lect, habitual drunkenness and I larest known bone deposits in
adultery charged!
the world are to be found in the
well known fact that any star
will cross any meridian about
four minutes earlier each night,
so we can write the following ap
proximate rule for finding the
date at which any star will cross
the meridian at a specified time
of the night, provided only we
know its right ascension or time
that it crosses the meridian on
March 21. Subtract from the
star's right ascension the speci
fied time of the night. If this
21003 Amanda Ullom versus I p"bof Islands, in the Bering
J. Vanscovoc.
First and final account filed in
estate of David Martin.
Sea. These deposits are the ac
cumulation of more than a cen
tury and are the property of the
United States government, which
Martin Ullom ; for divorce and
alimony, gross neglect and ex-
treme cruelty charged.
21004 Vpivn r. paw
Account of final distribution RIn nrQ , J acouired them alomr with other
"vn, .J U1 U1IV1W, I -
.. -mMma negject and ad ch Alaska is,and3 &nd ig now trs
21005 C. E. Westfall versus! to devise some means formak
Willetta Buchanan: to recover I m tnis material, valued at mil-
Pearl Melling was appointed
administratrix of estate of Jesse
A. Melling,
Inventory and appraisement L- e -j
tion of a residence
nied in estate of John DeCamp.
$699.23, balance due on construe-1 llons of dollars, available to Uni
ted States buyer.-. One of the
21006 Charles Ryan versus A.
H. Clark; for $2500 as damages
many deposits is described as a
mile and a half long, a mile broad.
and from two to six feet thick.
1 hese deposits, which because of
Forget Your Aches.
Stiff knees, Aching limbs, lame
back make life a burden. If you
suffer from rheumatism, gout,
lumbago, neuralgia, get a bottle
of Sloan's Liniment, the univer
sal remedy for pain. Easy to
apply; it penetrates without rub
bing and soothes the tender flesh.
Cleaner and more effective than
mussy ointments or poultices.
For strains or sprains, sore mus
cles or wrenched ligaments re
sulting from strenuous exercise,
Sloan's Liniment gives quick re
lief. Keep it on hand for emer
gencies. At your druggist, 25c
-Adv
MAKKIAQE rJCENSfcfe.
Guy Lecklider, 20, farmer, nr. i
Ii ivi in j unco ictnvcu
latter is me greater aaa A nours i wuyuie. son oi j. r . L.eckli- oiftA7P'ori pmm v,a t ip
to the star's right ascension, di- der, and Edna M. Stump, 21, nm;-fwx the climatic conditions Jiave re
Ii aaiv, cvuiuiii; obiatui ui coiaic Ji l
"uc L i" "M ou.w uauKiiter John DeCamp'torecover $1170.71
- I - T TT ft i I
difference by two and the num- r. otump. for care Qf John DeCam
.... - I T71 r i 1 nr i I
ber ot minutes bv four and the vueuwj ongnt, iarm- oiaootut 4. t
I 1 -xwo maigdici ivvan versus 1 -
roaulf toiII Ka tVio nnmW nf I er, Twin tOWPShiD. SOn Of Ham. n ,1 . . ... . I rrrnnd if nnlv rnoona rf tr-nna
months and days after March 21 ilton G- Briht an Sylvia M. paitition of real estate account. portation could be devised. Since
. . ... .... I Sionaorthonrrh OI Tm!i 4. I " I .1 . , .
mac me star win De on the men- """S"' "" tuwu- p..
I "1ft Ivi X CUt3,
I nVi' f TT ii I
dian at the specified time of -ft ny it w 21009-Addie Foui man versus
ni2nt- senbaugh. Frank Fourman and others: for
The right ascension of the bril- C' A Waner. 21, clerk,Lights- pai tition and sale of real estate,
liant constellation Orion is about Vllle son of J L; Wagrer, and accounting, &c
Ltiadys L MendenbaU, 18, Lights- 21010-Addie Fourman versus
tained their fertilizing properties,
would be able to supply an un
known quantity of bones to be
there is no regular steamship ser
vice to these islands, one plan
proposed is to unilize the navy's
collier on return trips. Popular
Mechanics.
Arrangements arc now under wai
for what Is expected to be the biggest
gathering of the temperance forces o
ir.e state Ohio has ever seen. A con
vention will be held in Colinnhiw Tan
16, 17 ai:d IS, and will be r.ndnr th.
auspices Of thS Ollin AnH.KaW,.,
league. While similar muetings have
Deen held almost everv vear. tho mm
Planned for January will be of special
importance, as it Is exnected rt th:
meeting a formal diKlaratinn for
state-wide Prohibition vote will then
be made.
The call for th rnnv-pnUnn ho a
teen issiu-d by the headquarters com
mittee of the Ohio Anti-Saloon league
ine state trustees will meet nn th
afternoon of Jan. 16 for their annual
business session. These trustees, rer.
resenting the several church denom
inations, outline thp nolir.v nf th
league and their word will set in mo
tion the machinery for a state-wide
vote.
It is now generally believed these
trustees are practically unanimous for
a campaign next year and the league
forces are ?oin? forward with the pre
liminary preparations. Tho county
chairmen, representing the Ohio Dry
Federation, have also been sor.ndeu
and, like the trustees, believe next
year Is the time to strike. These
county chairmen will meet at the time
of the January convention and wili
co-operate with toe trustees of the
league.
The convention will follow thr
meeting of the trustees and will be
largely attended. At least 5,000 dele
gates and visitors will be present
Each church, Sunday school. Young
People s society.' W. C. T. IT.. X. M. C
A., Y. M.C. A. Grange, and every or
ganization and society which will co
operate in the work of making the
state dry is entitled to reoresentation
and participation in the convention.
Memorial hall, the Iarcest auditorium
in Columbus, has been secured for
several of the convention session?.
and other halls and churches are to
be used
It is too early to know who some o
the more mominent SDeakers will be.
but negotiations are now on for bring
ing to the convention a few of the best
known men in America the kind of
men the whole state will want to hear
The recent dry victories which
brought four additional states and De
territory of Alaska into the Prohibi
tion columr, the gratifying results ir
other states and the failure of the
wets to regain a foot of territory iu
states already drv. is an incentive for
the dry forces of Ohio to push the
fight to drive saloons from the state
Added to these dry victories is a
growing feeling of dissatisfaction
with the operation of the Ohio license
law, t'.ie futility of all efforts to make
the liquor traffic law abidine. and the
disgust of the voters of all parties
with the constant meddling of brew
ers and liquor dealers and saloon
keepers in politics.
Slg Concerns Which Formerly Made
Beer Are Now Turning Out Shoe.
Milk Products, Automobile Parts
Soap, Ice Cream, Furniture anti
Other Produits and Are Giving
Work to More Men Than When
They Were Erewing Ecer.
CoIi;m'-in. O. The dry states seem
to be satisfactorily solving the prob
lem of what to do with the breweries
now that they can not longer manu
facture beer. From reports received
at the headquarters of the Ohio Anli
a!oon league the brewery plants in
the stales now dry seem to be busier
than they were when they were manu
facturing beer:
Tb Flint, (Mih.) bre'.vcry is now
a Methodi.-t c:n:rch.
Tho Lansing (Mich.) brewery i?
now used in ihe manufaittire of aut-
parts.
The Hanier brewery of Portland,
Ore., Is now a tannery, employius
1,600 men w here it formerly employed
136 men.
The Ber.wood (V. Va.) brewery in
now a chemical and soap plant.
The Fairmont brewery. West Vir
ginia, is now an ice and milk prod
ucts plant. '
The brewery of the Portland (Ore.)
Brewing company' is now a furniture
factory and employs 600 men, while
as a brewery it employed 100 men.
The Cedar Rapids (la.) brewery lj
now a yeast factory.
The Iowa City (la.) brewery is now
a creamery and produce company.
The Uneeda (W. Va.) brewery is
now a aiilk products company.
The Coors brewery of Denver, Colo.,
now makes malted milk.
The Huntington (W. Va.) brewery
is now a meat packing plant.
The North Yakima (Wash.) brew
ery is now a fruit by-producU com
pany. The Salem (Ore.) brewery now
manufactures loganberry Juice.
The Star brewery. Washington. Pa .
Is now the Capital Paint, Oil and Var
nish company.
The Raymann brewery of Wheelini.
W. Va., is now the Raymann comnanv.
engaged in meat packing.
The Pacific Coast brewery. Port-
land, Ore., is now a shoe factory and
employes 2,500 men. as aeafnst 12S
men employed when it manufactured
beer.
Chiiaren Cry
FOR FLETCHER'S
CASTORI A
Astronomical Data for
December.
There will be a partial eclipse
of the sun visible only in the
south, polar regions and even
tnere only about, one one-hund-
reth of the sun's surface will be
obscured. On the 21st the sun
will enter Capricoruus and win-
five hours and thirty minutes.
When will it be on the meridian ville dau?hter of Roy Menden- Frank Fourman: for divorce,
at 10 p. m. ? Five hours and thir
I T J. s) T . rxpr m
ty minutes plus twentyfour mm-J ster a. revry, a, jarmer, JREGISTER OP i)EEDfc
.... i- : - ? a. i . I n rjinKiin mwnGnin ann rT uuncH. I
ua ien gn-es nineteen nours ana - " Dan Gasson to Rachel H
thirty minutes. Nineteen divid- Fetry, and Pearl Miller, Gass0D) lofc a in VersaflIeg $1
ed by two gives nine and one- uownsmp, aaugncer Elmer &, Roll to Virgil L Tea-
- ... j Ltt : vr ii I
half and thirty divided by four ford, loUK) in New Madison,
gives seven in round numbers; Charles A. Love, 56, farmer, $6000.
whence Orion will be on the me- Versailles, ana Mrs. Ueorgia C. . ww r,, ti
uvuiiauuwil LU tJOIin
ridian at 10 p.m., nine and one- Mauk, 47, Versailles, daughter Connaughton, part lots 311 and matter of m?"
half months and seven days af- o1 moma3 a. Burns, 3 in Versailles, $2.
ter March 21, approximately Jan- Vernon E. ftookwalter, 20, yard John Connaughton to John the disease is- He can eat and
uary 12. It is almost exactly on brakeman, Bradford, son of New- George, part lots 311 and 312 in sleep 88 wel1 33 ever he stays
tne equator, can you nnd it? ton C. Eookwalter, and Mabel I. Versailles, $260.
lhe brightest star in the heavens Martin, 20. Bradford, daughter John H. Koenig to D. S. Burk
is Sirius. Its right ascension is of Simon G. Martin
"Some un sick at yo' house,
Mis' Carter?" inquired Lila. "Ah
seed de doctah's kyai. eroun' dar
yestiddy."
"It was for my brother, Lila."
ouui wnat s ne aone sroc ae
"Nobody seems to know what
SALOON MEN WANT RELIEF
Illinois Retailers, Like Those of Ohio.
Want Relief From Brewers.
Columbus, O. Saloonkeepers in
this state are greatly interested in
the efiort Chlearro saloonkeepers are
making to eet relief from eoneret,s
from the brewers who huckster beer
from house to house. These salooa
keepers want a federal investigation
and a stop put to the sale of bottleO
goods from wagons.
Chicago sa'oon men claim that mi
der the internal revenue law, all Eale-
of liquor nuu:t be made in the loca
tion named in tiie government license.
Of course the same law applies to
Ohio a, to Illinois, and Ohio brewers.
like their Illinois brethren, sell their
stuff from house to house, thus violat
ing the law and competing with the
licensed dealer. The Ohio saloon
keepers do not like this anv belter
than do the saloonkeepers of Illinois.
PART OF PRISON TO CLOSE
Effect of Prohibition on Crime In
, Colorado.
Denver, Colo. The effect of Pro
hibition upon crime has been so mark
ed that the first of the year, or one
year after Prohibition went into oper
ation, one entire wing of the Colorado
penitentiary will be closed for lack of
prisoners. The prison has barrlv
three-fourths of its former occupants.
If the number of prisoners sen
tenced the past six months continues
through the next six months, ihe pris
on will discharge about 37 men for
each new one received. The number
of prisoners received since Prohibi
tion became effective are for shorter
terms than formerly. Warden Tynan
sees the day not far distant when the
prison will operate merely a fraction
of Its present buildings.
PROHIBITION AND LABOR
More Jobs For Workers When Sa
loons Are Voted Out.
Spokane, Wash According to the.
report of a Spokane labor agent, dtir
!ng the first nine months of this year,
with the state dry, 23.281 jobs were
given out, compared with 0,552 for
the corresponding months of I9ir..
when the state was wet. This com
parison causes the Spokane Chronicle
to say:
- "Prohibition may not have opened
up all these additional jobs, but with
out saloons and breweries, the amouut
of work open to the laborer has in
creased vastly. The diversion of
money from the saloons into legit,
mate lines of trade has helped to ex
pand payrolls to an extent sufficient
to more than absorb those formerly
supported by the liquor industry."
six hours and forty minutes. Esley Dawson. 22. harbor TTn.
When will it beon the meridian ion City, son of George N. Daw-
at 9 p.m.? The answer will be son, and Ethel E. Welch, 18, Un-
given next month, Ohio State ion City, daughter of Charles A.
University News. Welch.
holder, 100 acres in Alleu town
ship, $1.
D. S. Burkholder to Clyde Lud
wig, 100 acres in Allen town
ship, $1.
..iartha A. Swank to Charles
any
out all day long on the veranda
in the sun, and seems as well as
any one; but he can't do
work at all."
"Law, Mis' Carter, dat ain't
no disease whaj; you brothe' got!
Dat'sa gifI"-Everybody's.
nsirSubscriba for Ihe Journal.
HERE ARE SOME KANSAS FACTS
TOPEKA, Kan. In explaining the strength of Prohibition sentiment
in Kansas after the state has been without saloons for more than
a "a.i1 rvf nontiirv flnvftrnor Panner nninta to thARo fanta
Every governor of Kansas for 22 years has said over his signature
that Prohibition is a success.
Every member of the supreme court of Kansas and every state
official says that Prohibition la a sucaess.
ttvay-v TinlitlctLl DBrtv in Kansns favors the Drohibitorr law and
bas endorsed the law In its platform.
More than 700 of the 780 Kansas editors In state convention. In
cluding newspapers of every political faith, unanimously endorsed Pro-
oioiuon.
The temperance Society of the Methodist Church asked bank pres
idents in Kansas what they thought of Prohibition. The reports
showed 165 favored the law, w'-ile only six expressed doubt of Its
wisdom.
During the session ot the last legislature, by unanimous rote in
both houses a Democratic senate and a Republican house went on
record in a series of strong resolutions telling what Prohibition has
dona for Kansas and emphatically approving it.
c
