? ; r.y. -p ? ^'
Franfe Carpenter
Look, for His Alaska Letter in
the Sunday Times-Dispatch
No Lapse in News
T.-D Only Richmond Paper
With 7-Day A. P. Service
06th YEAR
VOI,I Ml-: HH
M MIIKII :<:tr.
RICHMOND, VA., THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 80, 1916. ?TEN PAGES. ESiV?"E" ?UNSETTLED PRICE, TWO CENTS
I &
Educators From All Parts of
Virginia Take Part in
Meeting.
REPORTS SHOW PROGRESS
r* Distinguished Speakers on Pro
gram at City Auditorium
To-Night.
W ? ih regtratInn yestcrda.v totaling
2.000. or 500 ahead of the second day
last your. the eleventh annual meeting
of the Virginia Kiln, utionitl < *r?n for -
??nc! now going on in Richmond bids
fa: v t'i outstrip 1! it.s pr^dcc^HSors in
attendance. Juki an it* p.ogram has al
ready g? ven promise of being the best
ever present oil at an annua] eduoa
tioiial gathering in this State. Cum.
?jdnte registration figures last year
showed 2,.!00 in attendan e.
''onference directors are confident
tii.it that llmirc will l?' parsed to*dav
ami placed far behind bv the time the
1 onfp|pni'f closes t..-morrow night. .1.
T. Kent i '".ss, chairman of the commit
to" (hi registration. estimated last
night that at Imsi l.?;00 dejegates had
been registered yesterday. Three
clerks were busy a!] da> yesterday en
t tolling \isitors and -npplv ing them
wli.| con fere Ik' hadg e.M and inforti.a
t Ion.
After several simultaneous depart
mental meetings this morning and a
light program this afternoon. Tlx- prize
attraction of the whole meeting w i 11 te
presented at s if, o'clock this evening
in the rit \ Auditorium linvrrnur
IJenty farter Stuart will preside:
President < "|iu rles <; Slaphis. of the
State Teachers Asuoc ation. will make
his annual arid ress. and .John Ken
drick Ranga. of New Vork. will deliver
his le. ture. ?'\V? fs and Co." ,\ quarter
of Richmond singers and the Philhar
monic Assoc I a t ion will give a concert.
III N I'lllt |? % II \ til \'| | ;s
? ?H I't IXIII ^ |-:||| ( \'| ion
\ estf-rday'p program included the
meeting id !>:3o o'elo. k in the audi
torium of John Marshall High School.
'< '? which Mr. Motiglas S. I-'r.ctcati and
?I II R'nford ! pn k e; Hi., twelve d
pa rt in' n t a I meting- h ? Id simuitan. -
CMIB|> from 2 until .'i 45 o'. lock yester
day afternoon: the meeting at t .>".-lo? k
>esterdav afternoon, at whl 'i Mayor
rgf Ain:d ? w-lcm.Ml Mo \ ft'tors
''' the cl t \ . and f*rofessoi Kdwin M
Hopkins. of the I'nlversity of Kansas,
and Associate Professor Thomas II
Hrigcs. <if Columbia L'nlverslty, spoke;
and the meeting at Kir. o'clock last
night, at which State Superintendent
TV ?" Stearnes and Dr. Ueorge II
Menn.v. president of .he Lnlversit> ..f
A la ha ma. mad?> addressee,
.Mr Pinfold. A>"-i:tant Supet *nten
ilent <f the Klchninml l'ubli? Schools,
speaking > <? -1 ? rda y morning on "The
\< \t Step |n |?ubli. I! :u. ation." ad
vocated a minimum t.rni of
. ?? ven months through, ut the State. < }i?
passage of nil effective compulsory
education law b> th ne\t legislature, i
ami the making *?f a thorough survev
of the entire public school system of
\ it ginln Mr Motiglas S Freeman
?pokf on ?The delation of Public
tSchool* to Good '"iMzenship "
iin.ii *>< ii<h>i. t \mk'I's
? ii vi?: i:\iiiiiition t>It III.
The trustees and superintendents fie.
dared at tlieir meeting yesterdny
morning that they would recommend
that all tea.-hrrs in the State be given
a holiday annually on the Wednesday
of conference week, in order that they
might attend the meeting. The meas
ure was proposed Tuesday at the meet
ing of th.- executive committee of the
State Teachers- As:ociation
The John Marshall High School
? ''"in Corps. 275 .strong-, gave an rX.
hihiiion 'It ill in complete regalia at
!! I;. ..'dock ye?ter?lay morning: in the
^ Cra\Armory.
All school oflicers. ten.hers, prin
cipals and delegates t,, the conference
were entertained nt luncheon at 12:30
..'clock yesterday in the nines' Armory
by the merchants of Richmond. A
total of attended the luncheon. At
n similar entertainment given during
tl.< conference last year. I'.rtft were
present. The Virginia School Supply
Company entertained the visiting su
perintendents. trustees and supervisors)
V a' the snmr hour yesterday with a !
luncheon at their building. Meadow and '
Marshall Streets. More than I0f> wore !
present.
>I\M?R A I\SI,110
i:\ti:\us niu.fOMK !
Mayor Oeorge Ainslie yesterday af- I
t. moon extended a cordial welcome to :
the State Teachers' Association and i
members of allied organizations.
"Richmond welcomes the associa
tion." he said, "because we have come
to realize the enormous Importance of
the association to the present and the j
future welfare of the State. It has |
not been so long ago when teaching I
was considered to be Just a respectable [
duty for women who had to make a
living, without any special thought be
ing given to training, aptitude and i
adaptability. It is different now We |
spend on those who enter the teach- (
ing profession a great deal of time
and labor in preparing them for a j
work than which there is none more j
important. Mi Richmond the time has'
come when we are putting forth
greater effort and more money in pro. j
vldlng teaching staffs and modern !
equipment for our schools. Mi the last
budget more than 25 per cent of the !
funds, after the fixed charges had been
provided for. was devoted to the
schools. Four years ago the amount
spent was only 1 :i per cent of the
budget."
( NK OK NCIIOOI.S AM
roMinrxiTv ( i:\tkii.s j
The Mayor advocated the use of ihe !
school buildings as community centers, j
calling attention to the fad thai in |
< < Jontinued on Third Pago.)
Foot hull Trains?Southern Itallwav.
Special trains leave station. Hull Street.
Richmond, for Charlotte and Intermediate
r.?,n,-\ 1, 0:'10, ???: a?<> f'" Ouri'Lin
/.lianel Iljll and Intermediate points 11:30
P. M. Sleepers open for occupancy !i-00
1'. M. Ilepular trains leuvo from Main
Street Station, Richmond. 1 n
Washington Feels
Deep Resentment
Expects Allies to Reconsider Re
fusal to Issue Safe Conduct to
New Austrian Envoy.
I Uy AHMoetatfil l*rc;4?. I
WASHINGTON, November 29.?The
l.'iiiicil States litis sent notes to Great
lirit?tin and France. it becamc known
to-day. requesting reconsideration by
those governments of their refusal to
issue a safe conduct through their
lilork;u|p lines for Count Tarnowski.
the new A list ro- i lungarian ambassador !
to tiiis country, ami speaking of the j
unfortunate effect that a continued re
fusal would have on opinion here.
The notes point out that it is an
inalienable right of sovereign nations
to exehuiige ambassadors, and insist
that a third nation, even In 'line ?,f
war, is not justified in denying that
right. Great care is taken to base
the representations solely on the
grounds ?>f international right as dis
tinguished from mere international
courtesy, making it clear that the j
I "nlted States Is not asking a favor or
assuming the attitude of a pleader.
If the present note meets with an
unsatisfactory response. it |s amditted
that a very difficult situation will be 1
developed. The allied embassies are
deeply concerned over the resentment
felt by the Washington government,!
and are taking unusual care to keep,
their governments fully informed.
I.'ai l> replies to the American notes
are expected, owing to the fact that
''ount Taniowsk! is scheduled to sail
from Rotterdam on the !>utch steamer
Nieuw Amsterdaip on December 1*'.
Should the replies prove unfavorable,
the I*nited States might send a final
note notifying the allies to disturSi the
Austrian envoy at their own risk, or
M might be decided to send an Ameri
can merchantman or warship to some ?
neutral port to receive the ambassador1
and bring bin. across the Atlantic. As
yet. however, such .? contingency has
hardly been contemplated, in view 'if
the confident belief that the allies will
> :e!d
TO WITNESS INAUGURATION
Mm l''runrlk<-o Women l)rmo<'ral<t Will
Invnile Washington
In Force.
?"AN F1 J ANCISCO. November 2!i
San Francisco women Democrats will
in\ade Washington :n force on in
augur.it ion day, if the plans advocated
at the luncheon held here to-day bear
fruit. The movement is expected to
re-ult in at least 1.000 women of Cali
fornia? led by the <";,lifornia Greys,
tin* crack San Francisco military or
ganization and their band going to
Washington lo lake part in the in
aupuraI parade.
The expeditio i >- to he known as
the Women's Inaugural Special Train
for Was 111 i g ton. Word Iihs been re
? ?etved that the Governor of Missouri!
u .11 have tiie party as his guests for
one day. and the California Greys will
be received by the famous Richmond
Mlues arid the Virginia Military Insti
tute. The party will leave San I'ran
< i-eo February 21.
WILSON PLANS QUIET DAY
Will \ 11 piul Service* nt Presbyterian
< liurch nml Have Dinner W Ith
l-'nmllt nt llome.
WASHINGTON. November 2i??Presi
dent Wilson's Thnnksgivi ig plans call
for a day of complete rest. A mam
moth turkey which was sent to Wash- I
iugton from Oklahoma bv a Wilson ad
mirer will be served to the immediate
members ..f the White House family at
the evening meal.
Karlier in the day the President and
Mrs. Wilson will attend the Thanks
giving services at the Central Presby
terian Church.
Joseph Tumulty, secretary to the
President, was turkey hunting in the
Washington markets to-night. South !
Trimble, of Kentucky, notified the sec-!
retarv several days ago that he had
shipped a turkey to the Tumulty ad
dress. but the fowl had not arrived,
according to a late report made l?y j
the express company.
OHIO SETS NEW RECORD
tillTs Wilson More Vote* Tlinn Were
liver I'riNf for Any Other Presi
dential I nndldnte.
COIjI'M I'US. OHIO. November "9.?
The State Canvassing Hoard, composed'
of State oflicers. finds the plurality of j
President Wilson in the recent election
in Ohio to have been 9(1.110. The Wil
son vote was ijfH.JGrt. against 514,S.1fi
for .ludge Hughes.
Mr. Wilson has the distinction of
receiving more votes than were ever!
cast for any candidate for President
in Ohio. In 1904 Theodore Roosevelt
had 600,095; In 190x Mr. Taft had
,'?72.312. In four years 'Mr. Wilson
gained the support of nearly 1S>0,000
voters who did not favor him in 1012.
PAPERS ADVANCE PRICES
Three Morning Dallies In 1'lttshnrgli
UiiIkc Hale From 111 to 12
Cents Per Week.
PITTSniTUGH, PA.. November 29.?
Three local morning papers announced
to-night thai, beginning on December
1. the rate per week will be 12. in
stead of 10. cents. This announcement
followed one made by the four after
noon newspapers yesterday, advanc
ing the price per copy from 1 to 2
cent s.
WILLARDS AT WHITE HOUSE
American Amliimmdor to Spain nnd
Wife lleeelvetl by President
nnd Mr*. Wilson.
I Ry Associated I'rens. 1
WASH I N G T O N, November 29.?
Joseph 10. Willard, of Virginia, ambas
sador to Spain, and Mrs. Willard were
received at the. White House to-nlghl
by the President and Mrs. Wilson.
FOOTBALL CLASSIC
EVENT OF TO-DAY
Big Gridiron Contest Is Chief
Feature of Thanksgiv
ing Holiday.
both teams in readiness
Champions I*rom Universities of
Virginia and North Caro
lina to Meet.
Abounding ill prospe ri t y and having
"very reason to ofTer thanksgiving.
Riehmond will i o-.luy cep-bratc the
annual occasion by ottering up her
Kratitude from fulfil and |>ow and
from mansion and collar, and then
""?n out masse for the holidav. In
the morning special services will he
held in . hutches ,,f all denominations.
If lliey follow the rural fashion. the
churches will he decorated with the,
visible results of the present tide of'
wealth and productivity. so thai man!
may see an he prays the goodness
which the fields of Cod have brought
hi in.
I" the home, a: the, midday hour:
with some, at T o'clock with others.!
the great America ti bird will take hi?
accustomed place i? fr(lllt Ilf ,,|ft
of tiif! paterfamilias, and be carved ac
cord!,,,: to <llvers ,,ee?s ;lI1? the ,lum I
"r wat?rlng mouths. A turkey for'
everybody lias been made possible bv !
the downward trend of cost in this i
particular instance. Then, of course ?
there will |?. .rt ?f pumpkin '
with generou:. portions of various
kinds of other pics and puddings.
<;ItKAT I IMITItAij, ( I.ASMI
is KICATI hi: ok da V
'!?" the feature of the day will be
the annua! game between ihe elevens
of North Carolina and Virginia, begin
nitiK in Broad Street Park this after
.10011 .< r o clock. The weather
or eras t is cold and partly cloudy!
weather. lir-.t.g as much a social oc
casion as an afr.-iir of the tfridiron.
the game will be attended |,y ,>,e 100
f'*l "ieir 'lebutante daughters and
enthusiastic scions, to see and be seen,
as well as by the proletariat and those
who go for the port alone. Chrvsan
th?-r?ums for what is a Thanksgiving
!?ay without a chrysanthemum?wil;
blow from every grand stand seat.'
from every un pillowed. uncushloned
A^Hv'tivr ln>;n j y ik) fr om ev#?ry auto
mobile parked against the rail.
There w ill be a chaos of color, a riot
or life and unpainted beauty when tli
crowd sits down and awaits the un
leashing of the twenty-two helmeted
in i "ms. it win i,e an anxious moment,
that, for the gridiron men themselves.
Hut that first long wait over, the (list
down attempted or won. the two
elevens will settled into their stride
and know afterwards only the Joy of
strif.. and th-- grim determination to
cross the farther goal.
% A Mil A It I, OK VISITORS
HAS AI.HKAOY Altlth Kll
Ihe vanguard of the visitors arrived:
yesterday afternoon and night, filling
all the hotels from near-beer cellar
t? the attic row. Down below they
talked oxer a charged bottle and made
their boastful bets. Upstairs thev
dreamed of football, seeing it. their
fancies a touchdown by the m?e and
White or the Orange and Hlue. each as
his sympathy gave father to the wish.
It is to be a <b.s,? game, the prophets,
say. ami to prove the correctness of
their vision they point to the fact
that the betting is even. It is true
that Nor Hi Carolina ventured forth
this year with stouter heart and more
rightful .-lain, o the title of a worihv
foe. And Virginia, with a weaker
eleven than usual, has done desperate
things to keep her men on the <|ui vlve.
alert for the surprise which the old
North State tniiv bring. So Richmond
may b. treated to a football game
rather than onl/ to a mere social, con
ventional event.
Not In many seasons has there been
so pronounced an opportunity for a
dose game between the two elevens.
Not since that sail day for North Caro- j
line when she sent her Governor and
her college president to witness her
defeat while liovernor Stuart and!
President Alderman drank in the sweets
of victory have the prospects for sol
large and gala a gathering of en
thusiasts been brighter. It had been
expected that Secretary of the Navy!
Joseph us I'a n ie Is, present on that I
other occasion, would accompany the
visiting team, but pressure of business'
affairs rules otherwise.
\ IIII ASS A l)OH WII.I.A It l>
'I'O \YIT.\KSS 4 'O.VI'KST
Joseph K. \Villard. ambassador to1
Spain, and his family, who left Wash
ington yesterday, will occupy seats in
the grand stand. Representatives of
the State government, city officials and
men prominent in official and civil life
will he present to urge Virginia over)
the last inch of ground. They will |
form a sober background for society !
bedecked in all its glory.
Of course, the first arrival, and. be I
it said, the loudest and most consistent j
booster, from North Carolina is Father
I'errin Husbee. an attorney of Raleigh.!
who graduated from North Carolina In I
3J- It was he who captained the lira! :
team to play against Virginia. In I^OI
he brought up nine men to play lv<&c- i
hall /,-ainsl Virginia. Me went home!
with the score ? to l against him. The
game was played in Island Park, on
Mayo\s Island, where in those ancient i
days all the sports were staged. Mel
has attended the last twenty-one
games between the two Institutions,
and. though North Carolina has lost 1
eleven consecutively, Mr. Husbee. being
a true North f'a'llnlnn, has never lost j
heart. Of other losses he may have |
(Continued on Fifth Page.)
_ FAST NKItVICK TO THK WKST
rr",1ln '*MvlnK, Richmond *:.S0 I>. m. dally I
(Byrd Street Station I connects at Wash- I
"?lo.n, wl|h Pennsylvania Railroad's Capi
tal Kxprers with through sleeping ears
Cinc\nnitV?n^ St. C,cvcland' I
Carranza Forces Reported as
Fighting Hard to Hold Their
Section of Chihuahua.
FOREIGNERS BELIEVED SAFE
First Foreign Refugee to Leave
Besieged Town Arrives
in El Paso.
?
llv A?-*n.ii,te.) I'rrw. 1
Kl/ I'ASd, TK\ . N?v>nilifr 2S Tin* i
first foreign r?-fitti? i<- leave t'hihua-i
luia City ?iuthe sieyc began ar- '
liwl Iipip to-da.\ lli- reported that!
Villa and Julio Acos'a ?i>r? in control
of part of the ? ? it % when he mailc hla |
escape by automobile at o'clock this
morning', Owing to t!>.? fact that !>>? :
had boon in hiding. h<* explained that ;
lie had no means of knowing titst- ;
hand Just what had happened. or even |
the whereabouts of <General Trevino. 1
Carranza forces were holding hard j
to their part of the city, according to1
the refugee, wh? added that he under-i
stood all foreigners were safe.
Cannon firing ceased some time early |
Monday morning. !>ut t'i<> small-arms i
firing continued throut t Mondaj and
Tuesday, the refugee declared. He ad
mitted knowing nothins more about the
military situation in the capital than,
the report.- brought to him from time'
to time by servants and others who
came to his home, which is near the!
home of General Trovino. he said.
As he passed along the Villa Abu - i
ma-la road in his automobile late to
day. the refugee reported having seen
is.", bandits at bos Tatnjues. about
thirty miles southeast of Juarez.
Mi:\ A I.I. WKI.I. AltMKI).
in r 111: is not Mtn.i:sTi:i)|
He said the column was moving in i
the general direction of Villa Ahutnada
south 'if Juarez, and the men were all
well armed, but he was not molested.
I'tiited Slates Army officers stationed
at I'abens. Tex.. thirty-two miles
southeast of here, and opposite Guada
lupe. Chihuahua, were notified to-night,
and dispatched scouts to investigate
tiie presence of bandit? so near the
border. The Juarez military officers
were also notified of the reported pres
ence of the bandit force.
When he left Chihuahua City at 2
A. M. to-day. the refugee said be could
hear rifle shots in different parts of
the city, but was not molested as be ?
drove out. Only two men appeared on
tiie street through which he drove, and
neither of these challenged him.
The foreigner sain he had heard of!
looting in the business section of the :
city, but had not verified this report. I
Ho declared be had no way of ascor- j
taininc the whereabouts or safety of
the other foreigners in the city, as he
did not dare to leave his home. How
ever. he added that be did not believe
any foreign residents had been killed. I
He said little damage hail been done to J
the city, as Villa had no cannon when
he made the attack.
MAKKS HASH KOH PI.AIVS
.VOItTII OK STATU < MMTAI.I
After slipping out of his garage in
an automobile, the foreign refugee
made a dash for the plains to the north
of the State capital, he said. Ho
passed a number of bandits between
the cii-v and the border, one band heing
encountered near Sauz. He said those
bandits shouted "Viva Villa" as ho
passed in his automobile, the flag of
his country flying on the car. The;
bandits did not stop him. ho said, nor i
fire in his direction. lie saw another
hand further north, but was not near
enough to ascertain who they wore.
He did not pass through Sauz. going j
within two miles of this town, nor did j
he know whether or not any foreign
refugees or Carranza troops wore at
Sauz or Terrazas. Ho stopped at Villa j
Ahumada. where lie was detained j
temporarily by the Cajranza guards,
but was permitted to continue to the I
border.
As a precautionary measure, addi
tional troops were ordered downtown
from the fort and army camps to- j
night bv Rrigadier-General Hell. Ar-I
tillery was held in readiness on thei
Mesa, overlooking the oily and Juarez, j
and an armored automobile was sent
to the International P.ridge. The re
port of bandit operations in the vi
cinity of Juarez was believed to have
been responsible for this military ac
tivity.
on.ir.t t to w iTiiiHiAw \i.
or \MKiiirA\ rout i:s ,
I Hv Assoclnteil Pref* I
.II'AUKZ. November 20.?Mexican]
merchants who reached bore Monday,
night from Natnlquipa reported to-day '
that petitions were being circulated in !
the towns and settlements in the vi
cinity of the American expeditionary j
force's headquarters and outposts ask
ing the I'nited States government not
to withdraw the American troops now.
They claim Villa has made a threat |
against all who lived in Nn mi qui pa.
Guerrero. San l-Suena ventura, Casas
Gralidos, folonla Dubbin. Colonia '
Juarez and the other towns in Western
Chihuahua, saying ho would kill all
residents of these towns and burn i
their homes because they had aided the
Americans.
A report is in circulation hero that
a bridge has been burned between
Santa Sofia and Guzman, on the Mexi
can North western Railroad. If this Is
true. General Pershing will bo pre
vented from receiving supplies for bis
column by railroad.
100 PER CENT FOR YEAR
I) I reel or ? of I. du Paul de \eninurn
Company lieclnrr lloKtiltir mid
Special Dividend*.
t llv Associated Press. 1
WILMINGTON. D1CI... November 2??.?
The directors of the 10. 1 du Pont do
Nemours Company to-day declared the
regular quarterly dividend of 1 1-2 per
cent on the common .stock and a special
dividend of 24 1-2 per cent, making a
.total for the year of 100 per cent.
Call for Concerted
Uprising Against
High Cost of Living
I.'
Governors andMayorsW ill
Be Asf^ed to Set Aside
Days for Series of
Boycotts.
I liv tc*i I Toss* 1
NISW VudtK, Xovcmlii-r 2 ft.?One or
11) <- most remarkable food situations
ever noted in niiiiiection with the
Thanksgiving season dovclopod here
to-day as a tesult of the unprecedented
food pricey, on one hand there was
,i semipanic among dealers in the1
Thanksgiving turkey market as n re
suit of the public's refusal to buy at j
the prices demanded, i' was announced
by Joseph llartigan. commissioner of
weights a Jul measures. On the other j
hand, a rail for a concerted public up
rising against the high cost of living
was issued here by Mayor Burns, of
Troy. president of the New \ ork
State Conference of Mayors, who ad
vocated proclamations by the Cov?
ernors of all the. States and Mayors <>f
all the cities of the country to tie pub- j
lished broadcast and read in the
schools and churches, setting days for
a series of boycotts against high
price d foods. %
.Mr. llartigan said that large quan-.
titles of turkeys, chickens and geose ;
had been shipped here from the West
by the raisers, in expectation of high
prices.
"Hut the public is being scared off by j
the excessive prices of the last few .
days." he said. "The price of 3S cents
to cents which now prevails is so
high that retailers state that the pub
lic Indicates it will not buy. for the,
prlrc is boyoinl it.s inojtns
The dealers are finding, he said, a
feeling that "if the public were to
paj high prices they would establish
a precedent which would mean the
same high prices at Christmas and
New Year's." They were predicting
better eleventh-hour sales when the,
prices dropped, he said.
uni.itiKi)
TO ItKIM t'K I'll ICKS
The egg boycott, he said, has pro
duced less buying, and "in self-defense
the dealers have been obliged to re- i
iluce the price In order to induce put - :
chases."
The price of cold-storage eggs at
wholesale was I and cents lower to
day than yesterday morning, when the
egg boycott began. Kggs sold at 34 to 3S
cents a dozen, according to grade. The
average price for fresh eggs was i>3
cents, as compared with .>j a year ago.
The price of fresh eggs showed no
change front yesterday.
Some of the wholesale dealers assert
ed that the boycott would play into
the hands of foreign buyers. They suid
that men who want eggs tor export
arc waiting for a reduction in price, j
An o(licit*I daily report issued for the ;
benefit of produce dealers said:
"Storage eggs are lower, under a re.
ductlon of speculative support, and a
disposition on the part of the dlstrihut-!
ing trade to hold off and use the stock
on hand."
The Housewives' League to-day con
tinued active missionary work t<> dis
courage the use of cg.is. One inethol
Is an endless chain of telephone ap
peals. one woman called up twenty-'
tive of her friends, asked them to ah- ;
stain from eggs for two weeks, ami !
then asked each of these twenty-tlve
to call twenty-tlve of her women
friends and deliver the same message, j
A canvass of the hig public markets
showed that almost every Item of the
Thanksgiving dinner will cost more
this year than it did a year ago. Sonic
of the retail increases tin cents) arc:
IftlK. 191 ii.
Turkeys, pound .IS to 10 2K
Pucks, pound 2S to so "jo
Roasting chickens... "4 to 30 L'O
tieese 2S to 30 "JO '
Butter 4t! to i!2 37
Cranberries, quart.. . 1!? to 1*0
Celery, bunch 20 to 30 is
Onions, white, quart. 1."? 1"
Pumpkins -0 to r>0 20 to 30
WOK KIM. TO KINO SOI.l Tl(l\
Kim in<;n run es ok kiioii
CIIK'AUO, November 2ft.?City. S*tat*
and Federal officials, together with |
numbers of civic, women's and other ?
organizations were working to-day to
find a solution for the high prices of
foodstuffs.
With the campaign centering on outs
it was announced that municipal in
spectors had discovered in storage1
about seo.ooo eggs of questionable qual
itj which wi re lagged and marked for
examination l>y the city chemists.!
while more than 2.000.000 eggs were)
found in six cold storage houses await
ing an increase in price. In addition, j
government inspectors found 3fi.0no.ooo !
esjgs stored In another warehouse, the,
owner of which has not been located.!
Charles K. ('line. Fnited States district
attorney, also began an inquiry into,
tile report that .lames R. Wetz is tlo- :
holder of 72.000,000 egi^* In Chicago,
and to learn, if Mr. Wetz Is not the
actual owner, who is hacking him in
the alleged attempted corner.
MlltKOI.lv l?OI l/l'll \ DHAI.IOIIS
tltOlT IIKIMi OX K.HNTOt K101)
N'OIII-'OBK. VA? November 20. The
declaration of war on what was al
leged to he exorbitant prices. Issued
this morning by the Housewives*
l.eague. in a resolution adopted urg
ing llie people of the city to forego
the pleasure of Thanksgiving turkey
and to restrict the use of egc* to those
absolutely necessary in cooking, was
more generally observed than expected,
market men declared to-nlehl. As a
result, turkey was offered at retail
from 31' to 3S cents Prices yesterday
ranged from 40 to 4."? for the same
stock. Poultry dealers admit they are
overstocked, and will have to re
refrlgerate supplies owing lo the
slump in the retail trade.
Increase During Year
About 1 6 Per Cent
W ASMIM.TOV >ovrinhrr IIO.? llf
ImII price* of food* In (hp 1 nlteil
SltilrN u* n whole ndvnnceil It per
criil from September I." to October
IT., innkloK ii HI per cent lncren*e
for tnrlvr innnlhi, n* ithonn In re
port* completed to-dn.v l?>- the Ilu
reini of l.nlinr Stntl*tie*. The ftRT
ure* ch me from "!!."? retnll denier* lo
forty-live principal indtmtrinl cen
ter*.
In the thirty day* covered by the
report*, ineiiln declined from I to II
per cent, hut nil other nrtlole* Riven,
except ten. coffee nnd rice, mlvnnced
from I per cent for henn, to II per
eenl for butter, bread nnd aucmr,
ii ml II per cent for eKR.i.
PRICE OF MILK GOES
UP 1 CENT PES HUT
Dairies Advance Retail Selling Fig
ure to II Cents, Kffcctlve
To-Morrow.
I'AVI.NCi MORI', TO IARMNRS
They in Turii Are Put to (ireater
Cost ill Purchase of Cattle Feed
and Other K.vpenscs, According to
Statement.
With abnormally high prices al
ready prevailing for practically every
continoillty used by the average house
hold. the high coat of living will be
felt still further In Richmond with an
nilvanee in the retail price of sweet
milk lo the consumer, effective to
morrow. It was learned last nisrht
that I he dairy companies of this city
would advance milk on December 1
1 cent per quart to II cents, in order
I hat higher prices may be paid to the
dairy farmers for their products.
Dairy farmers are facing a serious
situation, it was said last night. They
arc paving from 40 to >50 per cent more
than they did a year ago for practically
every commodity that they are forced
to purchase for the production of milk
and butter. Realizing that they could
not exist under such conditions, they
appealed to the dairy companies, which
met them in their demands.
Leading dairymen said last night
that they realized the situation facing
the farmers, and knew that some
action must he taken i?t once to pre
vent the'eity's milk supply from being
placed in jeopardy. Accordingly, the
farmer was granted ;in increase for his
products. Stress was laid on the fact
last night that the farmers in no sense
made demands for higher prices, hut
that dealers, knowing their condition
almost as well as the farmers them
selves. readily agreed to the advance.
AI)V A.NCi: PIT I \TO K.KK lOt'T
KOIt )IO\TII OK DI-H'K.YI licit
The advance of l-'_? cent a pint for
sweet milk in Richmond will he
placed in effect by the dairy companies
for the month of December, but there
will he no reduction until the high
price of animal feeds has declined.
Many dealers in supplies fear there
will he no break in prices this win
ter. and some doubt was expressed
last night whether the price of milk
would he reduced on January 1. Such
action will not he taken unless feed
has declined, tt was said. Dairymen
said the retail price would he gov
erned entirely by the commodity sit
uation. and that as soon as these arti
cle* dropped, the price of milk would
be reduced.
Dairymen said last night that they
were now paving the farmers IS cents
per Ballon for sweet milk, as against
cents which prevailed a year a?o.
Many of them said they preferred to
work on a close market, if they can
'lo SO. allowing the farmer the great
est figure possible for his product, that
the supply may not he curtailed.
<;ltl-;.\T ADVA.VCK I>
nun.: ok < atti.i; khkii
Thej recalled I lie tight between
dairy men and producers in Boston re
cently. in which the latter were
granted an advance, but said that lo
cal farmers were receiving H substan
tially higher rate for their products.
"We found that we would have to
pay the farmer more for his milk."
said a leading dairyman last night,
??if we were going to keep him going!
<Ireat advances have been made in i
the prices of various materials and
food products i he farmer must buy,'
and he could not continue in business
at the same prices he was receiving!
last year.
" K very item on his list that must
be purchased f>>r his herds has ad
vanced heavily in recent months.
Meal is about 10 per cent higher than
last year: bran has increased to a
marked degree, while Hie j.ri.-e .>f corn
is at such a high level that they are
selling their crops rather than feeding
corn to the cat lie. Cottonseed meal (
alone has increased from $'.'1 to $is i
per ton within the past year."
SEND PROTEST TO WILSON
Member* of Xeu Orleans Cotton Cx
chnnjre Oppnne Deportation of
IIcIkIhiim to liermnny,
I My Associated Press |
N'KW <>I{1. KAN'S. November "!>.?
About 100 members of Ihe New Orleans
Cotton Kxchange to-day signed a pe
tition, which was forwarded lo Presi
dent Wilson, urging him to protest to
tiermany on behalf of the United States
against the deportation of Belgians to
(.Sot-many,
iTEUTONIC FORCES
SLOWLY CLOSING
! IN ON BUKHAREST
Advance Toward Rouma
nian Capital iMeeting With
Little Impediment.
'IMPORTANT JUNCTION
OF PETECHTI CAPTURED
In Center Defending Forces Re
ported to Be Retreating East
ward in Disorder.
IUSSI.WK MAKK SLIGHT GAINS
Apparently Little Infantry Fighting
lias Taken Place on Any
of Other l<'ronts.
' By Astnclated I'ross, |
Although the Russians, probably art
.1 diversion. are'carrying on with great
[ intensity an offensive in the Car
pathian region aroutnl Kirlibaba, north
west tif die Roumanian border, tiie ad
vance ??f the Teutonic allies alone the
line in Wallachia toward the Ron -
| tnanian capital of Bukharest appar
ently is meeting with little impedi
| me tit.
I he left llank of the forces of the
central powers have now captured the
I important railroad junction of i'etechti,
1 sixty-five miles northwest of Buk
i barest: in the center the Roumanians
are reported to be retreating eastward
j in disorder, while the right flank, com
posed of the army of Field Marshal von
Mackensen, which crossed the Danube.
' is carrying out maneuvers in co-opera
tion with the. other commanders to the
mirth.
The Petrograd War Office, in admit- '
ting a continuation of the retreat of
the Roumanians, says* Von Mackensens
men operating from Alexandria have,
advanced along the turnpike road to
Kulugurena. the latter town being
twenty miles south of Hukharest.
Turkish troops are. fighting with the
Germans and Austrian.? in this region.
1 he Russian official communication
asserts that the Russian attack east
and south of Kirlibaba has resulted
I in the capture in both regions of
' ridges and the taking of 700 men pris
' oner. The Berlin War Office admits
j that slight gains were made, but says
j the Russians suffered heavy casualties.
I Apparently little infantry fighting
j has taken place on any of the other
| fronts. On the line In France ami
Belgium there have been artillery
| duels at various points, and here and
j there small attacks by raiding parties
: of both the belligerents. Similar
righting is taking place on the Uus
I sian fiont.
The latest German official cominunl
i cation says quiet prevails on the Mace
? .Ionian front, there having been no re
sumption of the great- battle of the
early week in which both the Teu
tonic allies and the forces of the en
tente claim to have had the advantage.
The Russians admit a further ad
vance by the Turks south of Van. In
| Turkish Armenia.
The Mritish government, beginning
December 1. will take control of all
! the coal mines in South Wales, appar
ently to prevent the wage dispute be
tween the miners ami operators from
Interfering with the coal supply.
"O I It A MAN'S n WAI.I,A?'HI.\
meritioa'I'ixo i.\ disorok--.
H10RUN'. November 29 fhy wireless
to Sayville).?The Russians begun at
tacks yesterday at many places along
the Northern Roumanian front, it is
; announ ed officially. They gained
small local advantages at a heavy cost.
The Roumanians in Wallachia before
i Bukharest are retreating in disorder.
The statement reads:
!? ront of Archduke Joseph: In the
wooded Carpathians and on the eastern
frontier of Transylvania the Russians
yesterday launched attacks at many
points against the German and Austro
. Hungarian lines. They suffered de
feat. Minor local advantages were
paid for in sanguinary sacrifices.
"The infantry of General von Fal
kenhayn's army is victoriously advanc
ing along the entire Walla.hian front.
The defeated enemy is retreating east
ward In disorder.
, "Front of Field Marshal von Mack
ensen: The movements of the Danube
army correspond with those forces
operating further north.
In Dobrudja there has beon only
minor fighting activity."
sioititi \>s ( Ai-i'i iiR HKK.irr
XOItTIIW K.NT OK (Jit t XISIIIT,
I Hv Associated Pr?\<.?. |
l'ARIS. November 29.?Serbian troops
yesterdi.y captured the height north
west of Crunlshte. on the Macedonian
front, east of Orna River, the War
Office announces. \ height east of
hill 1050 also was captured. A violent
battle is in progress northwest of
Monastir. The French are advancing
toward bill 1248. the statement says.
The Italians made progress in the re
gion of Farvena St.-na height, west of
Monast ir
RISSIAN TROOPS TAIiF.
711 I'R ISO \ KR 1
! Tiv A-n.h'Ih t e< I J
1'I*. I ROGRAI*. November 29 i via
London ).?Russian troops advancing on
the Teutonic lines east and south of
K irlibaba, In the Southern Carpa
thians. have captured the ridges of
heights there, and taken ill prisoners,
the War Office announced to-day.
I NCR KASKI) At'Ti VIT V
ON MOM >1H KIIOXT
f By Asuwriated prejis 1
PARIS. November 29. -Increased ac
tivity on the Somtne front south of
the river is reported by tin- War Of
fice. During the night there were
spirited artillery engagements In the
regions of Blachea and Pressoire. The
communication follows:
"There has been very conslderabl*
?i
