THE WEATHER FORECAST, i
Partly overcast and colder to-day, pre
ceded by rain in the morning.
Highest temperature yesterday, 61 ; lowest, 46.
Detailed weather, malt and marine reports on page it.
IT SHINES FOR. ALL
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 91.
NEW YORK, THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 1916. Copyright, 1916, 6y the Bun Printing and Publishing Association.
ONE CENT
In Greater New York, 1 Klmrhm
Jersey City aad Knwk, I TWO CKNT9.
Stm.
WILL PUT MWAMOUS MEN
COST OF LIVING
OP TO CONGRESS
Bctimiing Members He
lieve Situation Calls for
Investigation.
MOPOSKI) EMBAKUO
IS NOT POPULAll
Bill Aimed at Cold Storage
Seq nest rat iou Is
Ready.
FOOD PROBLEM IS
SURE OF ATTENTION
Departments Are Taking
No Active Interest in
Conditions.
Washington, Nov. 29. When Con
rtss gets together It is almost certain
to undertake an Investigation of high
prices and the food situation. Al
though the embargo plan proposed by
Representative Fitzgerald docs not
iffm at all popular and Is not likely to
set very far. returning Senators and
Representatives believe the situation
calls for somo Investigation with a
view of determining a remedy.
Itcprescntativn McLcmoro of Texas
announced to-day thnt he would pre
sent a bill aimed to prevent a seques
Uatton of foodstuffs for e. long period
In cnld storage plants, which he thinks
Is responsible In a great measure for
present conditions. The bill ho has in
mind would require those who store
foodstuffs for speculative purposes to
dispose of 10 per rent, of the goods
every thirty duys at tho prevailing
matket prices under penalty of fine or
Imprisonment. Owners of the c-otd
storage plants would be obliged to
make affidavit to the percentage of
foodstuffs so dlslKiscd of by each imli
TlJiul storer during each thirty day
period. Affidavit would be required
from those storing goods concerning
nhether or not it was done for spectt
ktlvo purposes.
norland to Art.
representative Borland of Missouri
announced his Intention of proposing
that Congress either appoint a special
eoTnilttec to Investigate tho opeintlonH
f what he described as the "food trust."
or eLe call upon the Federal Trade Com
mission to juake such an Inquiry. He
tld the most pronounced feature of
th n hole situation Is the fact that the
eold storage plants of the country have
cornered food products and are manipu
lating prices to their own advantage.
Senator t'omercne, who arrived here
from Ohio to-day, and Is regarded as
r'.o'r to the White House, (.aid, with a
significant smile, that he regarded the
rro,)of(i "embargo" as "very remote."
Tie expressed tho opinion, however, that
Congress might act to meet tho situation.
Despite the condition lit the large
titles niirl the growing agitation for re
l'f from present conditions, no depart
r'dit of the Government has Interested
Itfelf apparently In the matter. T
sufttaln the Hinnunt of food In cold
Horace warehouses. It was said, would
take prnhahly many ninutliH. No notion
ef this Kind would bo undertaken by tho
Department of Agriculture unless di
rected specially to do so by the Presi
dent or Pong! ess.
Department ot Active,
Tie Department of Agriculture In
rnnrerned about prices only no far ns it
can Affect them hy stimulating produc
tion. It hnx for several years been col
I'ctlng and disseminating Information re.
rardlng marketing conditions with the
Idea that the more Information there
was on the Mibject. tho more stable
might be prices. Three years ago a
tlureau of Markets was established for
which there Is appropriated $l,SOO,O0f
mn year.
No official cognizance has been taken
ef tho present situation, nor has any
complaint or request for an Investigation
"en made by Commissioner Hnrtlgall
"f Now York, or any one else Interested
In 'lie movement to obtain lower prices.
Tho Department of Justice could, If It
so desired, start an Investigation to do-
termlne whether or not thero was ii food
trust, but It has not done so, nor does
It seem to be the Intention to take up the
matter.
Representative Fitzgerald said to-day
tint ho would have two bills ready for
Introduction Monday bearing on the pro.
rofd embargo. Minority leader Mann
salil ho did not believe an embargo
nould he placed on food products, and
that It was not a remedy for tho evil.
An embargo offered as n retaliatory
measure, In his opinion, differed greatly
from mi embargo to regulate prices, and
"itl!cnt warrant did not exist for a re
taliatory embargo,
TURKEY PRICES DOWN.
I'ku nnd Other Knlalilea Show llf-
feet of Slackened Ileinnml.
Cold storage eggs took a further drop
"t l'i cents a dozen wholesale yester
da -a 2'j cent tumble. In two days
nnd experts agreed that tho fast grow
"ir egg boycott had much to do with the
deiieasn In price, as It lessened greatly
'lie demand. The high retail price of
turkeys prevailing In the morning oper
aied ns a voluntary embargo. House
wives Just wouldn't buy and butchers,
taKing their cue from the women folka,
made It plain to the wholesalers that
tlu didn't propose to loud up nnd take
ilutneca.
In ionseiiience of die Inch of demand
'd of turUevs were placed In cold
'rzo to emerge around Christmas
' ' ' .lien the linldeis l.opo thrrc will
wire money in the blids. Those
n,ls that weren't good enough In lie
"! jway In icfilgeratois wero sold
Continued on Fifth Page.
PEOPLE OF U. S. SHOULD
RETURN THANKS TO-DAY
Expressions Generally Point to Peace and Prosperity
Enjoyed by America, With Wishes for Speedy
End of War Which Has Brought
Misery to Most of World.
REPRESENTATIVE Americans have suggested to THE SUN reasons
for the sincere offering of thanks to-dny for the reverent ob
servance of the old Thanksgiving Day, even though more than
half tho world is plunged in calamity.
They do not agree altogether, these gentlemen of the professions and
Of bUslneS8 life, in their remnni urhv tVianlra v,r,., .till L 0-,.l l,t .,.,
F - - - - ' "
refer directly or indirectly to those
UT 4 1- .L ....
"cm. in me recent election peace and prosperity. The heart of some
of these interesting expressions contributed to THE SUN to-day by some
characteristically alert citizens comes to this: That while things gen
erally arc in a pretty bad mess Americans ought to give thanks very
earnestly because they arc not in the great war and because there stems
' quim u ioi oi money noout.
Following arc the exrrressiona
prominence:
Lane Ileealla War.
To thk Koitor or Tub SvsSir:
This country has every reason to bo
thankful, but the unhappy world
starving, blind, tortured, ensluved,
broken hearted why should it bo
thankful? Fiianklin K. Lans.
Railroads Clad They Survive.
To thk Kditor or Tub Sun Sir:
Looking back over the eleven years of
Incessant assault upon the railroads of
the country', I think they have cause
for profound thanksgiving that they
still survive. The Institution of prop
erty upon wheh our Industrial civiliza
tion rests should be thankful for the
defence the railroads have made for
It. I P. I.ORKE.
Illshop Greer's View.
To the Koitoii or Tub Sun Sir: As
wo gather in our churches and re
ligious temples on this Thanksgiving
Day let us thank (lod not chiefly for
the fact that wo ourselves are blessed
with prosperity nnd peace while other
nations suffer calamity nnd lack and
arc bleeding white with war that
would lie an odious and pharlsaic com
placency unworthy of the American
people but rather for the fact that we
of our inunty have It In our power to
succor nnd relieve them, to help and
Jieal their wounded life and minister to
their need. Iet this be tho dominant
note of our national thanksgiving.
David II. tlnrxn.
Wsltrrnon lad He's Alive.
To tub KtiiTort or Tub Sun sir:
l'ersona'.ly I am thankful that I
am allvcund patriotically that Amer
ica is not as Kuropc Is.
IlKMIT WATTEItSON.
J, 11, liny lluiiiorons.
To tub KutTon or Tub Sun Mr:
Why should we bo thankful? The
farmer K-causo of late rains and early
and H?rslstent drought? The parents
because of lnfjntlle paralysis? Tho
Republicans because of the election of
Wilson? Our homes because of the
high cot of living? The northern
zone because of a mouth early winter?
All mankind because of the world nt
war? Yes. The farmer gets more for
what he raises tnd will have Another
chance; the parents) because tho In
fantile paralysis Is yielding to hVlenco
nnd sanitation; tho Republicans lie
cause of their great gains nnd tho
prospects of the next election; our
homes for lessons in economic living;
wc people In the northern lielt liecausa
shod are running tu tho Hudson nnd
winter will lie. mild: all mankind, for
both sides are winning victories and
the right will prevail and tho world is
learning the stupendous folly of war;
tho coal dealer and the Ice dealer, for
they will get their price whichever way
the weather goes. James It. Dat.
tVirwnn Prn for I'eaee.
To tub llnrmn or Tub Run -Sir:
This country lias every reason to be
profoundly thankful thnt It has not
eeii drawn into the European war. It
haa nlso cause for thanksgiving In the
prosperity It Is enjoying, but as this Is
largely duo to conditions produced by
the war In. which our fellow beings nro
MilTerlug untold misery our thanks
should bo accompanied by supplication
and prayer that the awful human
slaughter nnd material waste should
be brought speedily to an end.
James H, Koroan.
Why Mraus Is Glad.
nr., .mi- Viiitoi! or Thk Sl'N Sir: Wo
I should ever bo thankful that we live In
n land of realizable Justice nun Happi
ness, under n people's: government,
.k.m tiio rlclitx of all nro secure
I under equal laws, where tho people
have' It at nil times in tneir power to
correct thn tihuses and to perfect tho
machinery of government. But we
must always Ix-nr In mind that eternal
vigilance in the price of liberty.
Oscah S. STnAUS.
Itcjolcrs In Power to Aid.
To thk UniTon ok Tiik Sun .Sir: Wo
may be thankful thnt wo hnvo tho
nieaiiH to aid tho wounded and tho be
reaved, th" fnthciiosH nnd the widows,
and that wo huvo the heart and pur
pose so to do. We may bo grateful
that tho wide reach of American sym
pathy knows no creed or raco or
boundaries. We may rejolco In our
own prosperity that It gives us tho
greater power or neipiuuicss at nnmo
and abroad. Wiu.iam C. Hkdkikmi.
For Short Term Unlera.
To tiik Kpitph ok Tiik HusSlr: At
. II . ...I. ..,! tlM.1.
I tllO CiOSO Ot n "I'll nilliim i .i. m-
I dentin! election and In full sight of tho
horrible 'atnHtioplie in I'.nropo Diougni
llrltUh lr"r ' Frnlser.
I,oNtosr, Nov, 29. Denial that the
British cruiser Newcasdo was sunk by
a inlr.e, as reported In n Berlin wire
lesn despatch on tho strength of ad
vices from Botterdain, or that dm ves
sel waa sunk at all, Is made In an ofll
cial statement Issued this afternoon.
TELL WHY
-. 1U . . U J U.lll w Ul, l.U UUW IIIW.K
conditions which so interested the
. .
sent In THP QttM 1... f tUnl t
i
about by hereditary and dlvlno right j
governments, the American people
have great reason to be thankful that
they received from the Pilgrim fathers
ut Plymouth In 1620 the conception of
a Chief Executive elected for a short !
term by the people to be coverned. and
that they have safely developed this
method of selecting their chief officer
by 12S ycurs of practice under the
Constitution of tho United States.
Charles W. Eliot.
O'Uormau (irateful.
To Tils Cuitor or Tub Sun Sir:
While tho American people have much
to be thankful for. wo rIioiiM
cially gratuful that in one of the most
critical periods In tho world's history
Wo have been spared the desolation of
war. We enjoy peace nnd happiness I
in abundance, but In our day of !
thanksgiving wo cannot bo insensible
to our obligation to do whatever wo
may to alleviate the distress and suf
fering of fellow human beings crushed
by the horrors and calamities of the
buttlctleld. In this spirit wo should
reverently offer thanks to Almighty
Clod .for the blessings Me lias bestowed
upon us during the past year and pray
that the wrath of men may bo re
strained; that our civilization may be
protected fiom the dangers that
threaten it; that wisdom and courage
may be given to meet the greatest
crisis of our time, and that peace may
soon reign in those unhappy lands now
torn by strifo and warfare.
James A. O'Uorman.
Calder Sees I'. S. AnnLe.
To the Editor or Tub Sun- air:
Nationally we hne much reason for
tlianksgilng. We have been awakened
before It wus too late from the folly of
believing that material prosperity j
could be maintained by physical weak-1
ness and Industrial lnetllclency, and tho
whole trend of nur present develop
ment Is In the direction of prepaicd
ncss for the future In the fuctory, on
! the farm and on the frontier of land
nnd sea. Tho inertia natural in such
a huge mass ns our population
has leen overcome. We are no longer
a fat nnd flabby nation. Our muscles
are hardening. That means national
health. William M. C'alukii.
I'raee C.rrntrM Illrsslnii.
To tub Enrrnii or The Sun -Sir:
The causes for thanksgiving on the part
of all seem so apparent as to mako
their portrayal redundant. As a whole
the country has furnished crops suf
ficient for our needs and an iippi ecl,il.lc
surplus for our less foituuate world
lielgliliors. We have lioen exempt
from climatic extremes and exten
sively pievalent epidemics. Tho foot
and mouth disease that tliteatened tho
cittle Industry hist season lint lsen
eradicated. The recurrenco tif in
fantllo paralysis is unlikely. Should
It appear a way 1ms lioen found to con
tiol It. We nre nt peace and our sol
He on the border are repairing to
their homes. In recounting our bless.
Ings the greatest is peace- peace with
all the nations of the world.
l-'nBllERICK I). r.NtiKRWOnii,
Parker for Preparedness.
To TUB KlIITOR OK TlIK Hl'.N Nfr:
These United States should offer most
hearty thanks, for thn lesson of pre
paredness they nre learning, not
through their own bitter experience,
but through observation of Kurope's
great war, Alton U. Paiikkii.
Snnnn Thinks nf Others.
To tiik F.uiToit ok Tiik fii:sSir:
The people should be thankful for the
continued blessing of peace In a period
of nlmost world war; business men
should bo thankful for the unprece
dented ptosperity which Is theirs; the
plratoH who by market manipulations
havn cornered food and fuel supplies
nnd fattened upon tho necessities of
others should lie thankful that the
present law requires me to show com
bination or conspiracy before r can
present them for Indictment nnd
prosecution. Kiiwaiih Swank.
Daniels Sees I , S, 0ip)irliinltr.
To tiik KniTon ok Tun Si'.v Sir:
Tho carnival of form nnd strife on
half tho globe lias drawn from thn
other half thn finest spirit of brother
hood. There never was a keener edgo
to humnii sympathy, a deeper realiza
tion of tho worth of woman, tho di
vinity of childhood, the dignity of labor
nnd tho tights of man, America's op-
j purtunlty for Inland, even universal
I service, will loom larger than In nil
her history when peace again smiles
I upon tho world, fur In Iter thinking. In
I her living, in her spirit nnd In her
1 government sho has enthroned Ideal
1 Ism, For these tilings I am thank
ful. .IllSKI'lll'S Daniixh.
at.aus.aso Flaaaeetl Cargo.
Dui.UTH, Minn., Nov. 29, The steam
ship Hhenango left hern to-day for
down thn lakes with what Is said to
be thn most valuable cargo thnt ever
sailed on die great lakes, The cargo
cnuslstb nf 44C.OOO hushels of flaxseed
valued at II.SRS.SSA,
V
TELL OF EVACUATION
OF CHIHUAHUA CITY
Kitflitccn of Trcvlno's Officers,
Who Escaped Vllln, Sny
Cupltnl Has Fallen.
BATTLK LASTED 5 DAYS
Hnndlts Finally Peciinnfc De
fenders in a Decisive Ac
, tion on Monday.
exchange Ambassadors and Insist that
a third nation, even In time of war, Is
Kt, I'aso, Tex., Nov. 19. That Gen. not Justified In denying that right, (treat
Trevlno evacuated Chihuahua on Mon- ,,,'r,1 13 "k io.bnse the representations
. . ,. . , ... . . , solely on the grounds of International
day Is the story brought here to-night rBnl jf ,nKU,hfI, frnm mero nter.
by eighteen Carranzlsta otlicers who es- national rourtesy, making It clear that
caped from Villa's forces five hours after) h United States is not asking a favor
Ge, Jacinto Trevlno gave up the city j " xVKtttU'nt
Gov. hranclsco Trevlno. brother of the . the general principles of International
general commanding the gnrrlson. Is i law hi the case will cause a reconsider
union the nrrlvnls at Juarex. He s I tloii by die Allies. If the present note
meets with an unsatisfactory response
wounded hi the head and leg. lt ndmlttetl that a very difficult altua-
.Major .Manuel aviios, one or tne war-'iion
tnnza artillerists who were directing the
defence of the city and who Is among
tho arrivals. In telling the story of the
live days battle said.
"Oen. Trevlno received message
Wednesday last, signed apparently by
lien. Francisco Murgula, the Carranzlsta
commander at Torrean. The message
stated that he would arrive in Chihuahua
and specified the time. Villa appar-
ently Intercepted this message and substi-i
tuted for it one which said Murgula
would arrive at 2 o'clock Thursday morn
ing. Trevlno was suspicious and ordered
all troops to other positions Wednesday
night.
"Oen. Trelno alio sent a party south
Wednesday night to reconnoitre and
they returned at daybreak Thursday
morning with first continuation of the
fact that the forres were those of Villa'
and not of Murgula.
"Wa t,n. I r. rtnrt I.. r1.t1..n. I
bua city and Villa apparently had an
equal force. We had thrown up strong
barbed wire entanglements around the
base of Santa llosa to protect the artil
lery, and Qen Trevlno was there him
self. That was our strongest position.
We had twelve guns of 73 and SO milli
meters. VlllUm. n ..... ! i.
llll. la. rtralrn I Ir.t l.
Villa was at the heels of the party we
had sent out to reconnoitre and they had
trnrely readied us with their report
when tho Vllll.-t.-ui drove their first at
tack against our forces on the soutn.
lt was repulsed by our artillery. Tho
second day the Vllllstas made an at
tempt to storm Santa Boea. Again they
retired. The third and fourth days were
much as the first two, but on the fifth,
Monday, a decisive action decimated
our forces.
".Saturday morning, howoer, whllo we
were watching the enemy through
glasses Hen, Gonzales, Trevlno' artil
lery romnmiider, called out to Gen. Tic
vino that nn automobile had come out
to the enemy's firing line. We watched It
several seconds. A fliture limping and
on a crutch got out. i
ll Is Villa.' said Gen. Trevlno. Then
lie otdered us to turn the guns upon the
limping figure and eight shots wero tired.
Two of them struck nnd demolished the
machine, but the limping llgLTe got
away.
Villa Cavalry Charlies.
"On Thu.sday. the first day of the
llnlil nn 'lll' nr.lil.i. .. I
Ki.-tti, . ii,.. f. iiiii.iiii nun ('"nn ii ii
terrific fire Into us nnd the Vllllrta cav
alry under tills cover charged toward us. I
"They struck the barbed wire en
tanglements, which had been charged i
wllh electricity, and while men anil
horses were piled up in a bleeding mass
we turned the guns Into their ranks. I
shall never forget that terrible picture. '
It was during this part of the engage
ment that Gen. Jacinto Trevlno, our
commander, was struck," I
Tim Major said that lie saw Oarrati
zlstns In all parts of the town as bo
went through, all crying "Viva Villa !"i
t i. i.i -i . ,, .., ... i . i
lllMI III- MUllI-fll Will ll'IOllt'lll'll III MIOIII
"Viva Villa
city.
to get safely out of rlie ,
A llrfuaer'n Sor
The first foreign refugee to leave Chi
hualiua since Ihnslegc began arrived hrrc
to.day. llo reported that Villa and Julio
Acosta wero In control of part of the
ily when bo made his escape by auto
mobile nt 2 o'clock this morning. Owing
to tho fact ho had been In hiding, he
explained that ho had no means of
knowing first hand Just what had hap
pened or even the whereabouts of Gcu.
Trevlno.
Carranza forces were holding hard to
their part of the city, according to the
refugee, who added that ho understood
all foreigners were safe,
Cannon lltlng ceasul some time early
Monday morning, but the small arms
firing continued through Monday and
Tuesday. The refugco admitted fcnowirw
nothing more about dm military sltua-
tlon In thn capital than tho leports
brought to him from dine to time by nor-
vnnts anil otheis who came to his home,
which is near the home of Gen, Ticvino,
When he left Chihuahua city, ho said, j
he could hear rifle shots in different
parts of the city, but was tint molested
as lie drove out. Only two men nreared ,
on thn street through which he drove
and neither of these challenged him. He
said he had heard of looting In the busi
ness section of tho city, but had not
certified this report, lie said little dam
age has been vlono to the city, as Villa
hail no cannon when he made the attack.
As ho passed along the Villa Ahumada
roads In his automobile late to-dny tho
refugee reports having seen 185 bandits
at l.os Tanqucs, about thltty miles
irom Juarez, He said the column
was moving In the general direction of
Villa Ahumada
the men were all well armed, but he was
" u.,i,fc, i, n, I
not molested by Hie bandits.
U. S. AVIATORS DINE IN PARIS.
Ambassador Shnrp and Prof, Woods
Among; the Speakers,
Pons. Nov. 29. A special Thanks
giving eve dinner hero to-night woh at
tended by thirty of tho 200 Americans
who nro In training us airmen nt Due
nnd .luvlsy. Other guests were Henri
Hubert, president nf I he Paris Bar As
sociation, and Leon Theodor, president
of the Brussels Bar Association; Bear
Admiral Do Gouy, Gen. Malterre, who
was seriously wounded In tho battle of
thn Marne.
Tho American Ambassador. William
Graves Sharp, and Prof, James H.
Woods of Harvard University, American
exchange professor at the Horbonne,
were among the speakers.
I .tin- rate to Clminnull, l.nulsvlllt and
tho West. FliiMt seentry via ChSsapcnJii)
Ohio Hy. OlDce. 1:33 B wtr.Aiv.
U.S. URGES ALLIES NOT
TO BLOCK TARNOWSKl
Safe Conduct, of Envoy De
clared to Bo an Inalien
able Bight.
Washington. Nov. 29. The United
States has sent notes to (Jrcat Britain ,
and France requesting reconsideration
by those Governments of their refusal to
Issue a safe conduct through their ,
blockade lines for Count Tarnowskl, tho
new Austro-llungnrlan Ambassador to
this country, and speaking of the unfor- I
tunate effect that a continued refusal 1
would have on opinion here. ,
The notes point out that It Is an In
! alienable right of sovereign nations to
win tic developed.
.Should the renlles nrove unfavorable
the United States might send a final
note notifying the Allies to disturb the
Austrian envoy at their own risk, or It
I might be decided to send an American
"1, ', "r , ,"e
f"I,r1"1,, 'or' "celve the Ambassador ,
.r'"i'm "f;.0'"' ,ho tlan,lc" ,A"
?'AcrA "uc" contingency lias.
' ' " " ' " ""mP ''' vlcwor1I '?
c0"n'let that the Allies will yield.
FORD PROFIT DUE TO
THEM, SAY DODGES
,, ,, ,
IJl'OI lll'I'S A lit) it V
Maile Com
pany a .Success, Is Claim
in Suit.
I Dktroit. Nov. 2D. Klliott G. Stexen
son. counsel for the Dodgo brothers. In Ills '
I closing argument III Cilcult I'ourt to-day.
' "" '"J""""" i" prevent JK nry koui
f deelonlm- the Ford Molnr I'nm.
pnnj's business with the profits of the
concern, declared that the Dodges, and
not rord, wero responsible for the com
pany's success.
Stevenson traced the history of the
Ford Motor Company from Its organiza
tion, b'pcaklug of Ford's efforts to raltc
money to organize the company In 1903
he referred to the manufacturer as "an
Inventive genius or an imrntlvv crank."
The attorney declared that It was the
mechanical and engineering ability of
the Dodge brothers. Horace E. anil-.lohn
!'.. who became associated with Ford,
that gavo the company the business Im
petus which brought success.
Stevenon answered arguments which
wcie mane this forenoon by Alfird I.uck
lug. attorney for Fold. The (iiestloii nf '
whether cnpll.il stock tan also l legally
eoniuei eii capital assets, or Ico versa,'
was the point at Issue. Lucking main.'
talned that the Fonl company lias not I
violated the State law which provide
that no company may Incorporate for:
more than 125,000,000 in Michigan. Hi
1 declared that the law a fleets only the
. capital stock of a oinpan. The Ford
i1"1- Company Is capitalized nt I2.00U,-
"When tho legislators said capital
stock they meant capital." said Steven
son. "They loi-ognlzeil the dancer that
the concentration of capital In the hands
of ono corporation nr I ml S Idunl means
to the community." Stevenson dcclated
" XVlml ' 000 On,' '
""r,h ,r,,ht '400.mu.nftl-
FRENCH CREDITS $14,500,000,000
It ritilillr's IVnr lltpense Will
Iti-nch Thnl Tiitnl li March, IIII7. '
I'Anis. Nov '.'9.- By March 31. 1917.1
the total credits opened by tho French :
Government suite the beginning of liui-'
tllllles will amount to 7:,5irt,iiiii,iiiii 1
francs (fourteen and a half billion dol
lars), sas Ilaoul I'eret, tepoiter of the,
Budget Committee of the Chamber of
Peptides, In lecommendlng the vote ol '
a provisional appropriation of s,t;on.. ,
ooii.ono francs to pay thn exiensis of tin
llrst quarter of 1!M i.
M. I'eret also endorses die new taxa- .
tlon project which would leld dno.iiiMi,.
000 fr. Mies, These taxes would bo de
rived from InqrcasoH In tin- laxe on in
comes and on toh.tcco, wine, beef and
other commodities.
CONTESTS VANDERBILT POLICY.
'I'rnvrlrrs Insurance Coiiiian Hold
Dentil nn Incident of Wnr.
Tho Tinvelcrs lusuiani'o Conmniv
which has been sued by the estate of 1
Alfred G. Vandeibllt to ircover l.-.n,. ,
OOO on a policy held when Mr. Winder-1
bill was lost on board the I.iisltnula,
asked Justin. Shram jeslerday for nn
order rcpililiig that the complaint papers
bo made morn ilellnlte, .
Counsel for Him company contended '
that tho policy, taken out In 100.1, plain.
!' excepted the Insurance company fiom ,
payment In case or iteatli by war iircl- I
dents. Time was given for submission
of briefs.
COURT FIXES GOLF'S STATUS.
Holds It a "lleiirflcln! Ileerratlnii"
Bntlier I'liiin nn "Amusement," I
Chicago, Nov. 29. Golf, according to!
, , ' Zi m Co rTd' Z t
.. , recreation. ' rather tli.m
an
"amip-einent.
The decision frees Mary ,. Condon, I
ns executrix of tho estate of John Con-!
don, owner of tho old Harlem race
trark. from paying an annual amuse-'
ment license fee of 7fi0 a ear for the,
public, golf links which now adorn the'
former racing park. ,
ENGLAND TO RUN COAL MINES.
linvernnienl 'In Urn Over Adminis
tration of South Wales Fields, I
London, Nov, 29. Under the defence 1
of the realm act tho Board of Trade I
announces that frnm December 1 It will i
assume control of all the coal mines In '
South Wales. A committee, has heenj
nppoiiuru representing inn Hoard of
Tiado, tho Home Olllce nnd the Ad
miralty for the administration nf tho
mine, and will meet to-morrow to con.
sldrr tlte question of wages
There has been a long dispute con
(lining tho demands of the South Wales
miners for nn Increase of the war bonus.
SLAIN IN BELGIUM
LIKE HISS CAVELL
Mine. Hcloise Morcsse; French
woman, Declared to Have
Been Shot by Germans:
NO DETAILS ABE GIVEN
Wilson Instructs Gerard on
Method of Dealing With
Deportation Issue.
sieilnl r,tt,le tiffitdi to Tar. Sin.
Paris, Nov. 29. When the details of
the shooting of Mine, llclolso Moresse
become known tho world will And the
case Is a parallel to that of Miss Edith
Cavell, according to Vie feminine, which
to-day reports the death of the patriotic
KiViirhwoinan rxrcntrd In Brussels.
Mine. Moresso was the wife of a Bel
gian Journalist. When the war began
she remained with lilni. Her relatives
last heard directly from her 111 January,
1913. but recently a merchant In Am
sterdam wrote to them, saying she died
"tragically" February 29, 1916, "the vic
tim of her ardent patriotism." Con
firmation h.'i.t been obtained of the report
that she was shot by the Germans, but
no details have been ascertained.
Mine. Moresso was Id eurs old, tho
daughter of M. llrguitrc, who Is the
overseer of IMward Tuck's estate, Ver
mont, near Malmalson, where Mr, Tuck
maintains a hospital.
The Cerman authorities have Issued a
decree Imposing a further payment of
IO.OQij.000 francs (K.OOO.OOO) a month
on Belgium, according to a llavas des
patch from Havre. This Is additional to
the existing levy of 48(1,0(10,000 francs
(I'JB.ooo.oiin.) The despatch says that
the Provincial Councils have been con
voked for December 2 In order to ap
prove tile new imposition.
IMward Tuck, aged New York hanker,
founder of the Tuck School of Adminis
tration and Finance at Dartmouth Col
lege lles ill Paris, where he was a
vice-consul. ISfit to 1S6. He built the
Hospital St. dl at Malmalson and has
endowed various other educational and
iltllaMhroiU- Institutions In France anil
America,
Mr. Tuck Is nn uncle of Mrs. French
Vaiiderlillt, who was tin- first wife of
Alfred Gwyune Vaiiderlillt.
WILSON ADVISES GERARD
They Hate Hoar's Conference on
Questions of l'nllr.
Washis'uton, Nov. 29. Amlusador
Gerard after a final conference with the
President at the White House left this
evening for New York, whenco ho will
sail for his post on December S. Mr.
Geranf declined to comment upon his
conference, which lasted an hour, or to ,
say whnt subjects had been discussed,
lt in known, however, that he will not
take to Berlin a written message from
tho President.
It Is understood, however, that
methods for exerting the Influence of
the Fulled States In behalf of the Bel
gians deported Into Germany, without
arousing the ho-tlllty of the Gorman
Government, were discussed ,md that the
Ambassador received final Instructions
on the views to bo presented nt Berlin.
The President Is understood to have
emphasized the unfavorable Impresslo.i .
rent oil here by Germany's treatment of.
the Belgians and to have reiterated that
the Fulled States had said Its last word
on submarine warfare and expected Ger
many to llvo up to her pledges.
Purine the day the Ambassador went
to the State Department for a dual con
ference with Secretary Lmising, Whllo
Mr. Gerard would not discuss the matter
for pulillrtaloii he Is said to Intvo In
frimeil the President that Germany un
doubtedly N leady for peace, but only
on terms H.itlfartory to her Whether
the Ambassador will have a conference
In New York with Col. II. M, House be
foie leavlnt for Berlin was undecided
w hen In- left here.
There have Ikcii leports here within
the last few da.vs that Col. House him
self would go to Huropo In the near
future, hut the Colonel has said that he
has no rucli plans at present.
ALL HARRIMAN GEMS BACK.
I.nst of stolen .leel Itecoserrd la
n IIIhhioiiiI IVndniit.
Mi's, i; II II. nihil. in tecoveied cs
terday the last of the Jewel of the $.- ,
noo collection which was stolen from her.
last spring, and fur tho theft of which!
Arthur and Oivillc Daggett arc under'
rret. 1
Mine. J HIiiiik a wealthy l'iciicb-1
woman with a country home nt llrwlna,
I'iUe count v. Pa., broiiKht back to Mrs,
I!, mini. in tho mlaslug diamond pendant
worth lio.ooo. and upon Identification
readily surrendetcil It In (lie real owner.
Mine Blum had lumxenlly 'Uptight the
pendant from a Broadway Jeweller fori
fl.Min The detectives had found her by
Undue the uiin lliiough die hands of a,
number f Jewellers, each of whom is'
believed to have bought the pendant In
good fa ilh.
POTATO ALLOWANCE CUT.
German)' scheme "Ives I'o p illa
tion Leas, Vlorc to Hard Workers.
linn in, via London Nov 29. Owing
to the ii regular harvest this near, which,
with a taigo Increase In grain over last
oar, showed u decided falling off In the
prtalo crop, II has been decided to Intro
duce n new K'heme of potato rationing,
nn January 1 the urban population
will be placed on :i dally allow ance of;
tliiee-iuartci's of a pound instead of one I
pound
The agliiultui.il population will have
mi allowance of one pound dally dining
.lanuaiy and Fein nary and thereafter a
pound nod a half The potatoes thus
saved will be devoted to placing those
performing hard labor on a ration of two
pounds dall.v
10 YEARS FOR WHITE SLAVER.
lliMfd I'lifrMi. Who Lived on Girls'
S hn mc . Sent to Slnsr Slnic.
n..,-l.l ti.ti'rluli IIia itlilln .In'..
I 'It. Ill I "III r....,. nillll.
III the underworld ns Dave Siberia, was,
sentenced estenay by Judge Iloalsky
I.. I U.,u.lnll. In ,.,., ?.. I
III iii-H'-liii ..-.-m-. i i-" "i . I lllljt
nnd n half to nineteen nnd a half years
In Sing Sing, nnd to pay a lino of tl.noo,
which If not paid must be "worked out"
st the rate of J I a day.
At his trial a week ago testimony wsh
given that he lived on the earnings of
fifteen outtg women.
.
rlNKIII'RST HtrTW.a AMI COl.r LINKS)
nownprn. 1 014 Staliuard Air Llne.llMty wy.
AERIAL FLEET URGED
TO AW SHIPWRECKED
Coast Guard Would Add Air
craft to Life Saving
Stations.
Washington, Nov. 29, The employ
ment of aeroplanes as a new means for
saving life In the case of vessels
wrecked off the coast Is urged In the
annual report of the United States Coast
Guard Issued to-day.
Congress Is to be urged at the coming
seilon to grant authority to the life
saving service to establish aviation sta
tions and organize a force of trained
aviators to be stationed along the coast
prepared to supplement efforts of the
life savers and their lino throwing guns
to bring the whlpwreckcd ashore. Pro
vision for such a force has already been
Incorporated In the pending naval appro
priation bill.
The plan, as outlined In the report, Is
to have aviators carry a line from the
shore to the vessel In distress by flying
over It and dropping It on the deck. This
Is what is now accompllsrinl by the line
throwing gun, only in many cuses the
shipwrecked vessel Is too far out for the
gun to reach her. The icport says:
"The value of aeroplanes In tills con
nection lias passed beyond the icalm of
speculation, and there Is now no doubt
that the use of aircraft will greatly fa
cilitate this Important work by the coast
guard."
A step has already been taken In the
organization of a force of flying life
savers. Three Junior officers of the life
saving service arc now undergoing train
ing at an aviation school with this In
view, The report shows that the lives
of 1,21(3 persons were saved during the
year and assistance was given In various'
ways to 13,742 persons on board vessels I
by the life savers and cutters. The value
of the property saved from Immediate
Jeopardy was 110.638.335, while the cost
of the service for the year was 10,
213,711. if J
TIES TRAINS 2 HOURS
Theatre, Crowds Wait While
hotly of Unidentified Vic
tim Is.Ktricateil.
For two hours late last night a lung
line of elevated railroad trains filled with
homeward bound theatregoers was
Jammed from Fifty-ninth street to Ninety,
ninth street while efforts were being
made to extricate the body of an uniden
tified woman from beneath the trucks of
a train, where she bad fallen at the
Ninety-ninth street station.
Motorman Charles Marsh, 194 Brad
hurst avenue. In charge of a northbound
Sixth avenue train, noticed a figure
standing between the third rails of tho
express and the northbound tracks as ho
was pulling into the station about 10:.1)
o'clock. Ho took It for a workman at
first, but nt It came within the light of
the .-nr lamps he fivc It was a woman
about 33 years old, Ho Jammed on Ills
emergency brakes and sounded bis
whistle. Just at that moment the figure
siemod to tiip and fall directly beneath
the wheels.
Tho Midden Jolting stop of tho train
threw the occupants in a panic, which
was calmed with dltllculty. Other trains
piled up behind. A hurry call was sent
for a wrecking crew nnd an ambulance.
Dr. I.eddy of Knickerbocker Hospital nr.
rived nnd crawled down between the car
wheels to the woman's side. He found
her dead,
It was more than an hour Wore the
wreckers extlli-ated the victim's body
By that time the block of cars extended
to Slxty-shth street No tinlns run
ning above tho scene of the accident
c.iused ,i dial til of trains to scud south
ward from the northern terminal of the
load, ami tratllc was nt a standstill on
both routes, ninth mid south, It was
12:3." before tratllc was resumed. Mean
while a crowd, attracted b,v tho news,
clamored mound tho station entrance
until the reserves wore called to disperse
it. Two women III die street fainted
and had to be treated in u nearb) drug
store.
CHICKEN FOR DIET SQUAD.
Itnineal fnr Turkey Turned llntvn
hy Cnninilaalniirr.
CliiCAilo, Nov 29. -Boast chicken, will
bo the ptlnolpal article 011 the dinner
menu of the "diet squad" to. morion
The iiiembeis suggested turkey, but John
Dill Itobertson, Health Commissioner,
decided that tuike would Increisn the
dletarv cncncs of tho .nomi in
tent that inlKlit endanger his effort to
show that an Individual can live on food
costing to cents n day
The bill of fare for to-Torrow follows:
lln.ikfdH Oningis, Wafflos and si run.
riiffre.
Pinner I'renni nf pea miup, roant ebb (ton
mi m.ri-iiiK mm KlUiri KntV'. IIIMHlieil
I pot.ttuoH turnips, elery, cranberry sauce
apple pie, enffpo.
Slimier llnm 11 frlmini'. nf nt.i.r. i...i
i and Imlter, nnsorted fresh fruits,' drop I
rnkew, I'lionii,
Dr lloliertson said there were no
, inaikeil changes in the weights of the
twelve members of the squad. 1
WOMAN GETS HIGH LEGAL POST, j
: ipolntril Junior Aaalatnnl At.
tonic? -Ccllcrnl nf Colorndo,
DK.wiai. Nov. 29.- Miss Clam Built I
Mozzor, the .v.oungoht woman ever admit
ted to pvactlco In ttio Colorado courts,.
was nppoiuteii .minor Assistant Attor-ney-Gcneral
of tho State to-day by Leslie
Hubbard, Attorney-Gencral-olcct, It was
Hubbard's tlist appointment and take
effect January 9.
Miss Mozzor wa graduated Inst year
fiom the Fnlverslty of Colorndo law
school, Sho supported herself white at
tending college by leclllllng ami doing
newspaper work.
PITTSBURG PAPERS RAISE.
Morning Sheet Will He I U Cents
a Week. 1
1
PiTThBtnal, Pa., Nov. 29, Three local I
nun nine papers announced to-uUht that
beginning on December 1 tho rato a '
week will bo 12 Instead nf Id cents.
This announcement followed one made
by the four afternoon newspapers es.
terday advancing the pi Ice a copy from
1 to 2 cents.
Three Cent Papers In W. Virginia. 1
Cl.AitKsncr.ii, W, Va Nov, 29, Two I
local newspapers to-day announced
that hereafter each will be sold at three
cents a copy, owing to die high viwt of,
print paper.
OKK.tT I1KAK SI'RISCi WATK.R.
Itc. tha iaa at six flats ttopptrsd bottlai.
RUSSIA STRIKES
AS FOE SWEEPS
ON IN ROMANIA
Big Offensive Launched in
Hope of Stemming Title
of Invnsion. f j,
i i
PITESCI, STRATEGIC
CENTRE, CAPTURED
Teutons Now Menace Reac
of Two Armies in Pra-
liova Valley. i
HUNGARIAN PLAIN"
A 131 OF MUSCOVITES
Czar's Commanders Hope to
Harass Falkcnliayu
From the Rear.
London, Xav. 29. Itussla has movstl
at last to help Jlumanla by launching;
an offensive on a wldo front In the
Carpathians to tho north of the Uu
nmnlun frontier. Judging from th
preliminary success nf tho Iltlsslnns in
the region of Klrllbaba, military ex
perts here find n ,asM for the hope
thnt the t?zar's forces may I! ablo to
harass the rear of the Teuton armies
In ItiimanU so as to check the invad
ing tide, now sweeping on to H110lr1rr.it.
Meanwhile, however, Von Fa I ken -iiayn's
troops have captured tho highly
Important railroad Junction of Pltcacl,
sixty-five miles northwest of Bucha
rest. By this stiokc two Itiisso-P.u-matilan
armies nro threatened from
the reir. Von .Muckonsen's t loops,
yesterday only forty miles from
Bucharest, nre pushing on.
Punic has wlzed tho Btini.inlani,
Berlin says, and their retreat has be.
come a, disordered rout. Bcforo both
wings of the great Teuton tinny. Pal
kenhayn's and Mackenscn's. the Itu
niaiilans nro llcclng tovvanl their capi
tal. The Teutons are advancing vic
toriously along tho entlic Wallachlan
front, Betlin announces.
Hussion Hi-kIu Prise.
Gen. Letchltsky's Bttssian nruiy la at
tacking along a front of many mllei ta
the woisled and snow clad Carpathian,
Just north of the tip ot .Moldavia, Ru
mania's not tlicrn piovlnif. They ara
snuggling to foivn the Carpathian
passes, enter the lliingntiau plain and
turn tho left flank of the wbolo Teuton
Hue In Transylvania and Ituinaula,
Gen. Letchltsky's inot notable success
in this effort, which Is still being con
tinued stubbornly, wns gained nearKlrll
Iriba, on the border lino of Buknwina
and Hungary, twenty miles north of the,
Bumanlan line Hero tho Russians by
an Impetuous charge drove the iVutoni
from heights cast of Klrllbaba and took
more than 700 prisoners and six machine
guns. South of Kliilli.ili.i thn Huslnna
took a ridge of heights along the whole
front.
May Split Teuton Line.
Tho Russian advance, if it can be kept
up, will drle a wedgo Into the Teuton
lines near thn entrances to thn Stiol unit
Bodua passes leading to tho plains of
Hungary Tho ltulslans hnvo been posted
for mouths oil the Mimmlts of the. Car
pathians near theso passes, seemingly on
tho point Sif forcing them. If tliey Mic
ron! they may throw mi' of Joint tha
whole Teuton plan for the ctushlng of
Biminiilu
There Is some doubt, however whether
the Itumaiiiaiis ale In a position to tako
nilvantago of the Itusslan counter pros
Mile. Supplementing tile olllelal an.
noiinceineiits, German corre"ponilents
with Von Fiilkenhuyn'H army contlnuo
to tell of Rumanian ilemorallz itlon.
Tho ,o,'iloli:ci;n'.s corresponilent tel.
egiapliH that all the Rumanian trenches
taken nro found filled Willi abandoned
war material. Loaded 1HI1 " were found
lvlug In position, pointing from thn
treiichi-s, where the soldiers lift them.
Another lliiiii.inl.iii disairr seems to
be foreshadowed by tho tall of I'ltescl.
Tho Russians and Ruin. ml. ins defending
Khnpolung must retreat or lie cut off,
nnd mm cover dm slronglv defended
Rumanian positions lu dm Prnhova
Valley, south of the Piedcnl Pass, nro
now practically untenable.
i'hrriilen I'lmik noil Hear.
Von Falkenha.vii is now serlouily
threatening tho tear of Avon-ecu's posl
linns northeast of I'ltescl, which thn
Rumanians have defended Muhhnriily,
The Teutons found they could not forca
tho Prahova Valley by dlicct attack ex
cept at tremendous cost and now thoy
have struck at tin Rumanian II. ml, nnd
rear, using die same tnrths dial havo
been so successful against every other
Rumanian position.
Besides tho mllltai y Importance of
this rapid manu'iiv le, Its economic lm
portaiue is gnat It makes piactlcally
certain that within a few days the great
Bumanlan oil fields south of tho Prnhovii
Valley will fall into Teuton hands.
Pltesol's fall Is Important largely be.
cause of Its relation to dm Prahova Val
ley positions. The Prahova Valley, tho
Bumanlan contimiatlou of thn I'mlcal
Pass, is the main load to dm heait oC
Bumanla and Buchaiest, Its doubln
trark railroad Is hy far ttio bet for mill,
tary purposes, and it runs right through,
the nil Holds, I'ltescl Is soutlivvcst of,
that W to say behind, the positions tho
Rumanians occup In the heights 011
either side of the Prahova Valley, From
Pltoscl the Teutons can attack In tho
rear If the Rumanian try to hold their
positions.
The ltusso. Rumanian troops at lm
polling nro In the same situation, ex
cept that their peril Is inure immediate.
Tl eir ietie.it by lull . ut oir, fin tha
railroad from Kimpoluug runs oulv outi
way, to Pltcsii, and Von Fulkenhayn
holds Pltenjl. These troops niuu now;
