' fist copy AVAILMLE
*
vt 5Eri/% A"iV4^i^ yV^ 4^ " ]^| From Press to Home |
; Temperature for the past twenty-four M 14 by % 9|TI1 It 1 rl IW ty7!^ ; MVJ m^theHour"
hours < nilitis at noon Highest, H / / \ Ll^LJi ___________
1 'a!?:^rt,51't V/llv / %/Uvl 1X1 Im " i
J- , I ^ I 7 - f r / v <<woni Net ClrralitloB. Nratk ef Oetober.
lilt, Dally ATerage, 76.9911 Suatay. BMTL
~X^29^1& WASHINGTON, D. C., THURSDAY, NOYEMBER 30, 1916-TWENTY-TWO PAGES. ONE CENT.
CAMPULUNG SEIZED
BY GERMAN ARMIES;
ALSO GAIN PITECHTI
Thousands of Rumanian Pris- j
oners Taken During Successful
Invasion.
RUSSIANS CONTINUE
THEIR NEW OFFENSIVE
Troops Defending Line Before Bucharest
Declared to Have Been :
Driven Back Further.
:
Ity the Associated Press. I
P.KRLTW November :i??, l?y wireless (
to Sayville.?The Austro-German forces (
have captured the Rumanian city of ,
Gainpulung, opening the road through
to the Torzburg pass. More than 1,200
Rumanians were captured.
On the northern Rumanian frontier
tiie Russians are continuing their new
offensive movement. The war office
announces that they obtained tio important
results yesterday, although
gaining small advantages at the cost
??f heavy losses. In western Rumania
the troops which are defending the
line before Bucharest were driven hack
further.
Near Ciolanesti more than 1.200 men
and ten cannon* w.-re captured. Field
Marshal von Mackensen's troops which
crossed the Danube, have captured
nearly Rumanians.
Pitechti Also Captured.
Pitechti. in Rumania, sixty-live miles j
northwest of Bucharest, has been cap- 1
tured by Gen. von Falkenhayn's troops, j j
the war office announced in last night's ,
official statement. Today's statement 1
reads:
"Front of Archduke Joseph: In the
forest of the Carpathians and on the
frontier mountains of Moldavia the
Russians continued their attacking
without obtaining important results. (
They suffered heavy losses and had to ! i
be contented with small local advan- !
tages. In west K mania we pushed j
back hostile vanguards. In addition to I <
the capture of Pitechti. we also yester- |
day took Campulung, and thereby <
opened the road running through Torz- j j
burg pass. 1
'In the fighting there seventeen otfi- s
cers and 1.200 men were taken pris- t
oner and seven cannon and much baggage
fell into the hands of the Ba- ?
varian troops. Capt. von Borcke's { {
squadron of her majesty's cuisassier t
regiment took prisoner Ciolanesti a \
hoPtile column composed of seventeen
officers and 1.20ft men. and captured ten
cannon and three machine guns.
Danube Army Advances. j i
' Army group of Field Marshal von j1
Mackensen: The Danube army is ad-j *
vancing. fighting as it goes. In the ''
course of the attack against the Ku- T
manians the Schleswig-Holstein and 1
(Jlucksburg ami the Bavarian ieserve j
rifles, under command of Maj. Asehuuer, t
distinguished themselves. J
"This army since crossing the Danube *
has captured forty-three officers and .
2,421 rank and file, and has taken two | j
heavy guns, thirty-six field guns, seven : j
small guns, seven machine guns and 1 t
thirty-two ammunition cart-;."
By gaining possession of the whole line J .
of the river Alt in western Rumania, to- < ^
gether with the towns of Alexandria and ,
Giurgiu. the Tenoe . Hies shortened
their front b- .-bout l:miles, the military
critic of !'ie .Wws Agency 1
writes. The in-also h;.\< gained ^
nriuispuico ' < ? ?: IMIIUW V\*.I *.
distance of 185 miles. j
Hundreds Surrendered.
A correspondent of the L.okal Anzeiger ' v
telegraphs that the German troops which!1
advanced cast of the Alt valley outflanked ! <
the Rumania:* on the northern part of ; '
the river, and! that hundreds of the Ku- j
manlans surrendered, the others disband- |
lag and fleeing into the mountains.
In consequence of this move the Au?- j
trians and 'lermans were able to break '
through Rothenthurio pass at the narrowest
point almost without loss and
advance southward without encounter- i
init rcaltttnce. j s
The Kun ;innn.s lied iri panic, as is
own by the large number of prison- (
?-rs taken recently. ; r.d also by the ; ?
act that captured tr*nch**s ?v?-re found i
. i,.- filled wi?h war material of all
mi-. ltd'- - :-r.l! r.-jidy for firing, the
">rresp< rub.n nys, were lying before , f
The rr? 'IH 1 . P??::r*ed T <r. trd the I
former Atrfctro-< ierm.i r: positions. i ,
Check for the Allies
{
Northwest of Monastir
Reported From Berlin
P. . . Pr- fi.
kKKI.I.V, November by wireles:
To S: ;? \ i!I . ? An an? r;.pt made by th?
.t? lit*: allies to advance in the re- j
- north V. e-1 of \f?.:.: i southern ,
- i.i t. wn: frustrated yesterday by tin
1 :ulgar-'jerrnan forcer-. a??-?>rd ng to to
i.i\ o.fn ia I 'bo-man : tat trimm t. N* ; :
I
' . r if. ::->ilte the S.-lbiai,: W?!"e 'lr:..-; .
from 11: - west slope of Kuiri mountain. |
Reports Bombing of Prilep.
I .w.j.-. * - I'. 'II. J I,*
t>-Mowinv? official report from the .Mac-- j
d<-r ;tn front wris piven out here today:
Th -re \\?-r?* no important developments
? -terday on the front of the army <f
*>;? ?a t. K. ;r: and fo;< an- hindering.
ration.-, our aviators have dropped:
number of it s J'rilep * ir?
s?-ri>ia. t w? n' >-ti\ miles north* a>r of :
Monasiin." , '
Invaders Approaching
Kulugurena. But 12 Miles
From Bucharest Forts
15y th?* AxMidiM I'rus. ;
L().\l>ON, November 30.?-The rapid
advance of th** CJermans In Kumatiia,
with the capture of Petechti and the
;.pproa? h to Kulugurena from tliurKiu.
regarded here as constituting a s<-ri- j
ous situation. Judtfin# from votnrnej,t in!
f 1 m? r iiiii>? paper-. Jt is remarked '
that jf rhi invaders reach Kulugurena
they will he only seventeen inih-s from
Ku-harest and only twelve in ilea from
B the outer forts of the capital
The military correspondent of the
Times, however, sees cause for hope.
(Continued 01/ Second Page.)
GERMANY IS READY
TO END JE WAR
Chancellor von BethmannKollweg
Says Enemies Desire
to Continue Struggle.
URGES UNITED EFFORT
By the Associated Press.
ofiitijiiN, .Novemoer oi?, oy wueicss u
Sayville, X. Y.?In an address to the
reichstag yesterday in introducing tin
man power bill. Chancellor von Bethman
n%Hollivejr again announced that
Germany was ready to end the war
by a peace guaranteeing the existence
and future of the nation.
In presenting the bill providing for
compulsory service of civilians for war
purposes, the chancellor spoke in regard
to the military situation and the
purposes of the measure. It was the
chancellor's sixtieth birthday and his
desk was decorated with chrysanthemums.
Says Enemies Desire War.
"The war continues, with its destructive
forces," the chancellor said. "Accordingly
our enemies desire it. They
celebrated the past summer as a period
of victory. But did they obtain what
they wanted?
"Our lines are unbroken, and Rumania,
through which a great change
of events was expected, is now atoning
for what she did. God has helped us
jp to the present. He will help us further.
"The almost superhuman heroism of
our troops, which cannot be expressed
ii words of thanks, and our clear conscience,
since we, the first and only
ones, were ready, and are ready, to end
the war by a peace guaranteeing our
existence and our future?they give us
moral right to such confidence.
"But, gentlemen, this right ought
lot to make us forget duty. Our enemies
do not yet desire peace. They
lave superior numbers at their command
and almost the whole world deivers
war material to them."
Idle Hands Assist Enemy.
The chancellor urged the necessity to
!o everything in Germany's power in
rnler to manufacture the necessary war
naterial, saying:
"Hands that are idle assist the
inemy."
The bill, ho continued. Jiad been di^:ussed
with the interested trades and
n the reichstag main committee, and
was in harmony with the patriotic
spirit shown by the whole nation since
he beginning of the war.
"On behalf of the confederate governments,"
the chancellor continued. "I
isk you to assist in the work which
will bring us new strength and guide
is toward victory and peace.**
Cites Need of Material.
The war minister, Lieut. Gen. von
Stein, pointed out the paramount role
>f war material during the present conflict.
He said the heroism of the troops
it the front imposed upon every Gernan
at home the necessity of providing
the requisite materials and added:
"The enemy has suffered appalling
osses from our artillery. For a long
ime a very energetic French general
stood opposite my sector. We found
>n prisoners and on the dead docunents
which mostly were incornprelensible
to us. From them we learned
low many death sentences were passed
by the general on his own soldiers. At
he time of our victorious attack on
he much talked of wire hedge at
Thiepval. behind which machine guns
vcre placed, the order was given:
A'boever retreat* will be shot. At the
.im?- of the attack on the heights south
>f Avricourt soldiers captured there
stated they had received Th?- order:
ivery one who retreats will be shot.
"To us such an order is incomprehensible.
The heroism and sense of
iuty of our soldiers justify our coiifllence
that they will never be found
vanting. even when fighting against
lumerieallv superior forces."
3ritish Will Aid Allies
Whose Territory Is Now
Occupied to Fullest
I.OX DO X. November 30.? Ronald McWill.
unionist, asked the government
n the house of commons yesterday
ifternoon whether with the view to the
liscover.v or* intrigue in America or
rlsewhei'- having the intention of
ringing about peace before the dedared
object? of the alii'- ar* at
ained. "it woul'i be possil t?> make a
behiration that no question of even
1 <-rnporary ces.-at ion of military opera 1
ions could be entertained so lonir as
Jermati troops remained in occupation
r' any territory of the allies."
A Konar Law, secretary of tin- colonies.
replying for I'rrinier Asquith,
who is confined t?> his home with a
old. said The question was one for the
allies to eonsider in concert and that
until it was considered lie could not
make any statement except "that the
illies whose territory is occupied by
the enemy may be assured of full "support
of lb*- British K'ovfcrntnent." Mr.
Law anderi that he doubted tin- advisability
of m.thiny a n .nnouneemont such
a> Mr. McNeill .-uuKested because it
m.ent be taken as meaning that "that
is all we are asking for "
FALLIMG OFF IS SHOWN
IN BRITISH CASUALTIES
LONIjON. November .'10.?British casualties
in the month of November, as
reported from all fronts, were 74,6a0.
iff the total 2,351 of the casualties
among officers and 72.299 men.
Ti.'-f w:i; a mark?*d-falling- of!' io
!):. Nov -riib*-r ios.-o-s ;is coin pa <1 with
. lit months, probably owin^ to tlm
Idwiiik down of th?- Kornmc earripaign
mi account of bad weather. Tin: avr;iK?
daily loss In October was 2,452,
I'omijai"?m1 with 2.4*8 in November. TinNovember
casualties bring up the total
of British casualties reported in the
five months since the beginning of the
Somme offensive to 488,852.
Conservation
of Paper
Kv?-ry citizen is called upon to see
thai not a pound of paper is was led!
In-mand from every clerk that any
unnecessary wrapping of packages
be dispensed with.
jf you have no further use for today's
newspaper save it for the
bchool children's playground fund.
Call Main 6026 aj?d ask for the
nearest public school to yotfr home
and the old papers will be sent for,
EVERY D. C. SOLDIER
TO GEIA PSESENT
j Washington People Are Remembering
Their Troops
Along the Border.
!
! SAN ANTONIO HELPING. TOO
Contributions to Fund.
fnllmrinp* rnnl l-ilrut inns tf?
the National Guard Christmas
j fund have been received:
j Previously acknow ledged . $107
1 j w. G. w 1
i Total S108
' ?1 |
Washington people are expected to give !
to the District militiamen now* on the j
border?their official representatives in j
1 the army of preparedness?a Christmas j
that will long be remembered by the men,
judging from the manner in which responses
are being made to the Christmas
fund which is being raised by The .Star
for the men in the field.
Though separated by miles of territory
and in a new field, the homesickness over
being away from the family fireside at
Christmas time may be alleviated by the
distribution of many presents to be
bought with the fund which is being raisj
ed for the District troops scattered along !
: the border in four camps. The 3d In- j
fantry and Troop A, Cavalry, are at San
Antonio, Tex.; Battery A. Field Artillery,
is at El Paso, Tex.; Battery B, Field Ar- ,
; tillery, is at Douglas. Ariz., and the Sig- j
j nal Corps Company is at Nogales, Ariz, j
There is now practically little hope
! that the men will be back home Christ-\
{ mas day, for even if orders for their re- j
I turn were issued at this time it w ould !
1 take a month or more to get the neces
1 sarv railwav ?-riinnmint to brine them
! back.
Christmas day will certainly be dull !
j for them unless the Washington people
i come to the front and provide some- (
thing to make the boys happy.
People of San Antonio Helping. Of
course, they will have plenty of u
good Christmas dinner provided by ^
j Uncle Sam and the extra mess fund 1
! maintained by each organization, but
| they need something to show them that
j there is a real Christmas spirit. The ?
i people of San Antonio are coming to
| the front in great shape to provide for
j the District troops Thanksgiving, and
j they certainly will follow it up with 1
Christmas donations. They are cook*
ing all kinds of pies, cakes and sweets . n
for the District men for their Thanksgiving
dinners. I tl
The people of the District who ap- b
preciatc the hard work which the Dfs- ] tl
trict soldiers are doing on the border \ s?
can show their appreciatnon in no better
way than by contributing to the d"
fund to buy Christmas presents for ' ci
the men. The money will l?e sent to : oi
the officers at the various camps, so j ai
that the presents can be bought in j r<
time for Christmas. Kvery man will ; r<
get an equal share in th?* fund, and I>!
there are approximately 1,500 men in ! ir
the four camps. ' a'
Besides cigars, cigarettes, pipes and tr
tobacco, which the men enjoy at all . c<
times, there are many little things;
which they would like to have to make tr
their tent-houses complete, and they j k
; have real tent-houses now. Hoard a
j floors arc installed, and heavy frame- ; h
work holds up the t? nt, making cozy
littb homes for tin- men. with a good
i ::re in the little, black, coni?al-shaped
: tent stove .
; w
What Things Art Needed. ;j
H Ur.ri. -,rt toilt f tiCtolv in the ?-iv nfid"
! shaving- brushes, safety razors, talcum ' 01
; powder and cold cifam. They need ' oi
plenty of writing materials and stamps I (?'
! j li
j to write to the people back home, for vi
j the small pay of S10 a month which
most of them receive will not permit
j them to have everything. And a supi
ply, enough to last a week even, will tl
i be highly appreciated by the men. 1
The frequent inspections held by the
army officers has taught the men to i
keep their homes in the open Just as vv
: tidy as the homes they occupied in ai
. Washington. Everything must be just . s{
| so, so the sanitary officers will put m
1 them on report. Many of them need ' ^
, big laundry bags in which to keep ^
' their soib d clothing. They keep the
i tents looking Peal, but the men can'
n<?t always tind funds enough to pro- ,j,
vide them. These i-an provided with
a pari of the fund w inch is being * '
I raised.
There ar<- so many things which tin- '
i trooper needs and tlie Jong list of wants j !
j outlined several days ago includes:
j something for every man.
TR00PS0NB0RDER Is
HAVE REAL FEAST :
! t I
i
I tl
.Thanksgiving Dinner Menu
Ih
Contains All the Regula
tion Dainties. J
c,
1,
HOME FOLK SEND BOXES ;>
w
I U
by j. crosby McCarthy.
Staff Correspond*-nt.
| SAX ANTONIO, Tex., Xoveinbt-r '{ >.? j,;
If the militiamen from the District of d
Columbia are homesick today it is not P
because they failed to partake of a p,
real Thanksgiving day dinner. The
spreads that were set before them when
mess call sounded at noon were feasts
in every sense of the word. They
were jut as tine as the limited culi[
nary equipments could make possible,
i All last night lights were burning: (
I in the company kitchens, where cooks
I were hard at work preparing good '
| things in readiness for the feasts, and ^
j not until the men filed into the mess ^
hall for dinner did they relax their C(
efforts. rri
"Wo are not much on style today, j^1
but wa are there when it comes to w
eats. Wo ara there both ways" Is ths Si
way on ||| cooks described the sit- ti
ation. and expressions of like nature
*ere heard from all of them.
Everybody Has Plenty.
Tliankgiving day dinner was eaten
ut of mess kits by the majority of
16 militiamen from the National Cap:al,
but it tasted just as good as if
?*? /HehoQ liuf] hfpii r.f the finest china.
aper napkins and oilcloth took the
lace of linen, hut the soldiers did not
jind it in the least.
There was enough for every one ami
le men were not limited to second
elpings. Third and fourth trips to,
v tables from which the goodies were
lived were not uncommon.
Some of the company commanders:
E-cided that cooking turkeys on th?~ude
field ranges would 1"* a danger- .
js experiment, arid accordingly made
rrangements to have their piece de J
sistarico cooked at bake shops and |
-staurants downtown. The birds were i
repared by the company cooks accord-|
g to their particular tastes, and
fter receivig the stuffing and other ex as
were taken into the city to be (
joked yesterday afternoon. j
This morning they were brought out)
? cam]) an?i wrapped in blankets to I
oep them warm, and they were given j
fresh heating just before being
irved. (
Good Thing's From Home.
In addition to the pies and cakes
hicli the housewives of Sun Antonio
rovided for the militiamen today, uni.-r
the ausj)ices of tlie Rotary Club,
[her home-eooked delicacies were seen
ri the tables, for scores of boxes of
ood things reached here from Wash igtori
yesterday, and others were reiived
today.
Twenty huge sacks of mail wove devered
to the lid Regiment yesterday
tid about half that number this mornig.
The men of Troop A also received
ieir share of boxes from home.
All duties were dispensed with today
y order of the camp commander, and
le men are free to do as they like.
The only men of the 3d Regiment
ho are not benefited by this order
re those of Company K, who were so j
nfortunate as to have their turn to
and guard fall on today. This did j
j\ mean that they missed the Thanks- j
iving dinner, howevci, fur tic- men
>ok turns on guard, and all of them J
re given plenty of time to enjoy
ieir meal.
Practically all the companies served
hanksgiving dinner at noon, but sev- '
*a K preferred to have the feast spread!
lis evening. Mans ? ! Ilie men ex
"ct to have a second dinner down- j
>wn this evening, for many dinner and
lealer parties have boon planned. :
Go to See Foot Ball Game.
About twenty members of Troop A
ft at 7 o'clock this morning: to attend
te foot bit 11 game between the teams
I the University of Texas and the
gricultural and Mechanical College of
exas.
It is the biggest game that is played J
i this section of Hie country, and? the ,
oopers are anxious to see the kind of
?ot ball Texas provides. Because of
it- large number of absentees. Troop A |
ill have a second Thanksgiving feast
miorrow. for enough supplies have
i'fn laid in t<. prepare two grand
teals without any difficulty.
'I'his was truly a day of Thanksgivig
for the men of the 3d Regiment,
>r about the time they sat down to
inner Capt. Will If. Chase, supply ofli^r,
announced that a requisition for
54 new pyramid tents had been aproved
by the quartermaster departlent,
and that sion the torn and leak-!
ig tents which the men now are using;
ill be discarded. This means much to j
le militiamen, for every time it rains j
ley have a hard time keeping their
?ts and equipment from getting wet. j
The 3d Regiment made an excellent
lowing yesterday afternoon in a dress
arade. Realizing that, it was the last i
uty they would have to perform for'
vo days, the men put a lot of snap!
ito their drilling and presented the/
. st appearance possible. '
Pittsburgh Charity Needs Greater.
PITTSBURGH, Pa., November
espite the great prosperity in this
ty. charity organizations said today !
le appeals for aid, compared with
irmer years, have not decreased. The J
tjmands are greater than ever before, j
iii? official said. Appeals have come I
om hundreds of workers whose wages
ave not been raised to meet the high i
_>st of living, exorbitant prices forcing
iany families to seek aid who have
Dt done so in previous years. All
nown to be in need of dinners today
ere supplied^by private charity, the
&lvaticm similar associa
BIG SALARY IT
NEARS COMPLETION
Fixes Compensation of 18,000
Government Clerks for
Coming Year.
GENERAL RAISE UNLIKELY
The legislative, executive and judicial
appropriation bill, carrying about
$39,000,000 and providing for 18,000 government
clerks' salaries, will be ready
for a report to the House by Saturday
night.
The present program, on which the
subcommittee in charge is working, will
permit of a report to the House MTmday
or Tuesday, making the legislative
bill,, and its provision for 18,000 employes"
salaries, the first business of the
second session of Congress.
Subcommittee at Work.
Chairman Byrns and his subcommittee
were at work at the Capitol practically
all day today, hearing nearly thirty
government officials who have submitted
estimates.
The Post Office Department and the
V n-ir TJfmu rtmunt TT.-f?rr? f nplnmnul
establishments represented today.
The hearings are closely guarded and
the estimates have not been made public,
so that only a guess can be hazarded
as to whether the subcommittee will
report many increases in wages. It is
practically certain that no flat or horizontal
raise for ail government employes
will be carried in the bill when
it reaches the floor, hut it is quite certain
that many and various proposals
for increases will he made after the
bill is in committee of the whole.
May Add Nolan Bill.
one of the interesting possibilities is
that the Nolan three-dollar-a-day bill
is in position t<> be added to the bill as
un amendment.
The Nolan bill, providing a minimum
wage of $3 a day for government workers,
is on the calendar, having been
given a favorable report at the first session.
A point of order made against it
that it is not germane could be met with
a successful argument, it is believed, and
the only precedent which will settle it
quickly is the Holman rule, providing
that amendments to appropriation bills
must decrease lather than increase appropriations.
However, the House is the
judge of its own actions, and even if the
Nolan bill is ruled off on that account
there are other ways of tacking it on as
a rider.
217 Members for Bill.
There arc 217 members pledged to the
bill, it is understood, and with this
large number, practically anything is
possible.
It is not definitely settled that the
Nolan bill is to be added to the legislative
bill, but the friends of the measure
ars* talking of it. This bill, of
course, relieves the situation regarding
employes under the $i?oo class. There
are still thousands of salaries between
and $1,hoo which were established
by statute in the early sixties,
and have not been raised since then.
NO TURKEY EOR DIET SQUAD.
Chicagoans Also Forego Pumpkin
Pie in 40-Cent Menu.
CHICAGO, November 30.?There was
no turkey, pumpkin or mince pie or
plum pudding on the Thanksgiving
dinner menu of the dieting dozen of the
Chicago health department. Instead,
they were given roast chicken with
dressing and giblet gravy. Other extras
were declared too expensive for a
meal in the attempt to prove that it is
possible to live well at the rate of 40
cents a day.
However, cranberries, which have nat,,
materially increased in brtee since ladP
^ ' / -^ * /V^\-~ Q^s
?**?*
r?n
4. ;? I
WJ
! year, were served in a sauce. Turnip:
j mashed potatoes, celery, apple pie an
i coffee also were served,
j The bill of fare for today follows:
Breakfast ? Oranges, waffles an
sirup: coffee.
Dinner?Cream of pea soup, roaschicken
with dressing and giblet grav:
mashed potatoes, turnips, celery, cran
berry sauce, apple pie, coffee.
Supper?Brown fricassee of oyster:
nreaa ana ouuer, assorieu ncau u uu;
drop cakes, cocoa.
D. C. SIGNAL COMPANY
I PRAISED FOR ITS WORI
Eeturns From Day's Maneuvers an'
Makes Dash for Big Turkey
Dinner.
Special Iiispatch to The Star.
NOG ALES, Ariz., Camp of Distric
Signal Company, November .10.?Th
District; Signal Company returned fror
a day's maneuvers in the vicinity o
CaJabassas loaded down with prais
{from the regular army umpires for t.h
| good work done by this organization.
Today is an oil day in the camp, an
at noon the men made a dash froi
the trenches in the direction of seve:
big turkeys which arrived on the fir
ing line last night.
Maj. Harry Coope, adjutant general o
the District National Guard, but nov
detailed with one of the militia brig
ades at Nogales, entertained the officer
of the Signal Company and their wive
at a theater party last night.
Three members of the Signal Compan
have distinguished themselves in a thril
ing rescue of a young woman who was o
tire back of a runaway horse. They ar
Privates A. B. White, Willis and Walthei
While exercising horses of the signa
UUiap.lII) LIIV j Utf.UlI ?X WUI1IU11 n \v?i?
screaming "Save me!" The thjee me
started after the runaway, and Privat
White caught up to her first. He rod
alongside the horse and lifted th
young woman from the saddle whil
the other two men caught the hors<
The name of the young woman was no
obtained by the men.
Mrs. Russell M. MacUennan, presiden
of the Society for the L'otection of lug
nity and Honor of the Uniform of th
United States, wife of Uieut. Madam
nan of the signal company, is at No
gales.
SAVED FROM SEA DEATH.
Steamer Rescues Seventy-Two Per
sons From Sinking Schooner.
BALTIMORE. November 30.?Tli
Norwegian steamer Borghill. which ha
arrived from Oran. Algiers, brough
seventy-two shipwrecked persons froj
the American schooner tJeorgiett?
which sailed from New Bedford. Mass
November 12 for the Cape Verd
Islands. Among them were two snial
children, whose mother had died on. th
voyage. The Borghill. which had los
part of her foretopmast. was detain*-*
at quarantine for fumigation.
Ul III" I rBL U'.'U pcwjuc, llll>-niA Wfl
passengers and sixteen members of th
crew. Most of the passengers am
crew of the Georgletta are Portuguese
They appeared to i?e none the worn,
for their experience.
PRICE OF OIL GOES UP.
Pennsylvania Refineries Ask Tw<
and a Half Cents More.
OIL* CITY, Pa., November 30.?North
western Pennsylvania refineries hav
in the past month advanced the pric
of fuel oil from 3*4 cents a gallo
to cents a gallon. This ad vane
has been caused by the use of the <>j
in the great steel plants at Pittsburg!
and Youngstown, <>hio; Sharon, Pa
and other steel centers. Refineries i
Oil City and vicinity are turning awa;
orders at present for the heavy grade
of oil that are usually sold at cost
So great is the demand that crud
oil is being shipped from Oklahoin.
to supply the refineries in this sec
tion. If thiH petroleum product cai
be obtained in sufficient quantities t
warrant its continued use some of th
mills declare they will entirely d<
away with^oal for fuel.
ITEACHERS' PENSION
: BILL NOW READY
Measure Will Be Presented to
Congress Early in December.
REFERENDUM IS SENT OUT
The bill providing for the pensioning
of public school teachers who have
grown old in tjae service will be introduced
in Congress early in December,
according to plans now being formulated.
It has riot been decided vet as
to who will be asked to bring it before
the House of Representatives. It
will not be necessary formally to present
it to the Senate, as a bill very
similar to the present one has already
been introduced in that branch of Con-I
gress, and will need but few changes
to conform with the one for the pussage
of which th< teachers are now
working.
.a rererenaum on tne presem uki ?jto
be sent out early next week. This
was decided at a meeting of the central
committee in charge at the Franklin
School yesterday afternoon. The
referendum covers two main points. It i
first asks if the respective teacher, j
"broadly speaking, approves the bill
for teachers' pensions as it now
stands," and. secondly, calls upon the ;
teacher, irrespective of the answer to
the question, to make suggestions and |
recommendations for its improvement.
Purpose of the Referendum.
The purpose of the referendum is to
learn the consensus of opinion of pub- |
lie school teachers on the bill in question,
so as to strengthen the bill. Signatures
are requested to the referendum,
but the vote will be counted,
whether signed or not. It is hoped to
get definite, constructive suggestions,
and the teachers are earnestly solicited
to make these.
Steps looking toward a campaign which
will thoroughly cover the District of Columbia
were taken yesterday with the appointment
of subcommittee chairmen to
choose committees which will present the
teachers' pension bill before various civic
organizations.
Miss Alice Deal was named chairman
of the subcommittee on women's clubs.
Miss Adelaide Davis chairman of the
subcommittee 011 home and school and
- similar organizations, Selden M. Ely
chairman of the subcommittee on citizens'
associations. Miss Rebecca E. ShanJ
ley, chairman of the central committee,
is chairman of the legislative committee,
the other members being William J. Wal(j
lis and Miss Anne Heers. Miss Flora E.
Hendley was appointed as chairman 6i
;t the committee on statistics. Miss Deal
being named as another member of that
iJ committee. Alfred Doolittle was chosen
as secretary of the central committee.
FEWER TURKEYS SERVED
ON TABLES IN CHICAGO
Dealers Report Declines of Four and
I Five Cents a Pound. With Corn?
paratively Little Demand.
. w.r. Vn.-.n.U.. tu n.imlt.
t I WU-AIMU-nALr-ULIM I UUIIM
t
A two-and-one-half-cent piece is dee
mandod by tlio country, according: to
the director of the mint, whose annual
report, made public today, recommends
passage of a law authorizing coins of
that denomination from copper and
nickel.
"When you consider that we have no
coin between the one-cent piece and the
five-cent piece, and that many an article
0 worth more than a cent and less than
s r> cents sells for the latter price because
of the lack of an intermediate
c I monetary unit of value." says the di11
r?-ctoi\ "the economic importance of it
,t i will be readily seen. Articles which
* i now sell for 1". rents each, or two for
. a quarter, would sell for 12Ja cents.
? Popular shops, such as the f> and 10 |
1 cent stores, would undoubtedly place i
e articles now selling two for 5 cents on |
t sale at %l\-> cents."
1
?| NINE VESSELS ARE SUNK; i
!' SOME OF THEM NEUTRAL1
e I
LONDON. November 30.?Lloyds re|
ports tlie sinking of the British steamship
ilea pwcll.
A large Herman submarine on Tues^
day afternoon made an attack without
warning, according to Lloyds, on the
Brlxham fishing lleet. Two trawlers
e were sunk by gunfire and bombs, and
e another was disabled. The masters
;ind crews were saved. The submarine I
is reported to have tired on the boats |
li after the trawlers were abandoned. !
1 L.loyds also reports the sinking of
I, the British steamships King Malcolm.
4.351 tons gross; Moresby. 1.763 tons
|| gross; Maude Barssen, 1,222 tons gross;
v the Norwegian steamship IVrra. 953
s tons net, and the Spanish steamship
t. Lucienne.
e ?t was announced here yesterday that
:t the Greek steamship Alargherita. probably
- the Margarita, of 1.112 tons gross, had
n been sunk by a submarine of the ceno
tral powers in the eastern Meditejrrae
nean. The passengers and crew dr tbe
o Greek vessels were landed^jtt Alex&n
CAPITAL OBSERVES
THANKSGIVING DAY
IN DEVOUT SPIRIT
;
People Gathered at Fireside
Altars Thankful for Peace
and Plenty.
WORKERS HAVE REST DAY:
ATTEND CHURCH SERVICES
I Inmates of Pnhlir Institution*
yesterday's sudden slump in the retail
and wholesale markets fewer turkeys
were served on Chicago tables today
than on any Thanksgiving day for
years, dealers asserted. A few firms
open this morning quoted prices 4 and
,t 5 cents a pound below yesterday's high
e point, the birds selling at wholesale
at from 2f? to 27 cents a pound and
.. the retail prices of the small dealers
c ranging from 28 to 3~> cents a pound.
e with comparatively few buyers. Other
fowl also dropped in price, but the |
j declines were less sharp than those on \
n turkeys.
n Reports indicated that a number of
turkey raisers who shipped last week,
when turkeys brought around 32 cents
f a pound in the wholesale market, and
v whose carload lots arrived just as the
slump set in, were ordering their live
s birds back rather than sell them at
8 the low prices.
Merchants pointed out that the crest
y of the demand has been reached, and
attributed the slump to the disinclina"
tion of dealers to carry'the fowls over.
c while many consumers asserted mat
r: the activities of the various organizaI
tions which have been urging: housee
wives not to purchase turkeys at the
II high prices were responsible,
e
SAYS COUNTRY DEMANDS
-?- ii? ?m mi r- or*iT nAiii i
Holiday at JMearoy army rosrs.
With the big dinner which Uncle Sani
provides for his military men today
tlie day is being--treated as an ordinary
holiday at the military posts in and
around Washington, including the
Washington barracks, the Marine barracks
and Fort Myer, Va.
"Building the Rat Out of
Existence."
Katproof buildings exterminate
them, says the United
States public health service;
protecting the country from
bubonic plague; scientific rat
hunters tor Uncle Sam. Read
this article in The Sunjtey Star.
or tne poor una tne unrortunate.
In the asylum?, the hospitals?even
in the correctional institutions?there
has been cause for thanksgiving:, because
of the departure from the drab routine
of every-day misfortune. So far
as is known, none of the poor or unfortunate
has been overlooked, and in
this Capital city of the country almost
every one must have a cause for
thanksgiving in some form or other.
Joyous celebrations have been arranged
i by many organizations, to take place
j this afternoon and tonight. Workers
i have a holiday, and the District of Co1
lumbia is thankfully at peace and rest.
President Wilson Spending
Thanksgiving Day Quietly
in the White House Circle
President Wilson spent Thanksgiving
quietly with members of his family and t
1 took no part in several special celebrations
to which he had been invijted.
With Mrs. Wilson he attended his
regular church this morninv. having deJclined
invitations to be present at the
| pau-.viii'.-m an mass u.v ni. rairiCK n
I Church and a joint celebration of
Methodist churches.
The turkey for the White House
Thanksgiving: dinner was picked from
among: several sent to the President
from different parts of the country.
Tonight the President and Mrs. Wilson
will attend a ball given for the
benefit of the Navy Relief Society at
the Washington navy yard.
Turkey Dinner to Feature
Thanksgiving Celebration
at the Y. W. C. A. Building
The feature of today's celebration at
the Young Women's Christian Association
building, 14th and G streets
northwest, is to he a turkey dinner,
scheduled to begin at 5 o'clock. According
to those in charge of the affair,
there are to be real, whole turkeys
placed upon the table, in order to give
those who may have been away from
their homes for long periods a chance
to see a "regular"' roast turkey in front
of them. There will, of course, be the
usual "trimmings," along with a number
of good things to eat.
The building is to be open until ' *
o'clock tonight, and all that time there
will be an informal reception Immediately
after the dinner a program of
music and dramatic reading, prepared
under the direction of Miss Julia F
Roman, chairman of the entertainment
committee of the association, is to be
presented.
Selections will bo given by Mrs. Ethel
Holtzclavv GawhT. soprano, accompanied
by Harry Wheaton Howard, and
by Miss Victoria Siddons. reader.
All lonely girls and young women
all women being considered "young" in
this case?are invited to attend the reception.
entertainment and dinner. Tbo
last will cost r.<? cents, but all the other
affairs will be free.
The dinner, which is a regular yearly
feature, is to be given under the direction
of the lunchroom committee of the
association, with Miss Florence Beasley
and Miss Florence Buckingham in general
charge.
Afforded an Opportunity to Join
in the General Feasting.
I 1
.
i The District of Columbia, in common
' with other communities throughout
jtho 1'nited Slates, today is celebrating
Thanksgiving day in the midst of
peace and plenty. Tin- chief executives
of the nation have set the example to
the people of going to church, to give
thanks, as President Wilson phrased
it in his Thanksgiving proclamation,
that "the year that has elapsed slnre
w litM ui)B?Tvcn uur ui i ri;iii t\ j?k n
ing has been riVh in blessings to us *3
a people."
All over the capital, around tho flresido
altars, ar? gathered family parties,
the thoughts of rrany of them
dwelling, as the Thanksgiving proclamation
says, "with painful disquiet
upon the struggles and sufferings of
the nations at war and of the peoples
upon whom war has brought disaster
without choice or possibility of escape
on their part."
Inspiration for Thanksgiving.
To turn from that picture to the
peace and contentment at home has
been a real inspiration for a real
Thanksgiving?the subject of many of
i the sermons in the churches of Wauh|
ington toe ay. Elaborate services have
| been held in many of the capital's
i churches. The spiritual needs of the
people have received no less nourishment
than their material needs. There
has been again opportunity for tho
feastings of the table, in the homes
and in the charitable and other Institutions
which minister to the wants
