trj vtjs
W T
NIGHT
EXTRA
STRA7,
icxst
NIGHT
lii.-; '- ,.!
tj
EXTRA.
i?ftntt
Arft" - A
c
VOL. in. NO. 67
51
BROWN IS BEAT
START
ALMNHAYN
Germans Occupy Strategic
Railroad Center Cut
Foe's Retreat
UiACKENSEN ADVANCES
BERLIN, Nov. 30.
Campolung, In northern Rumania, lias
'been captured by tho Auatro-Gorraan army
! of General von Falkonhayn.
' Campolung Ue3 at the point where tho
Itumantan plata touches tho southern range
of tho' Transylvanlan Alps. It lies at tho
, termlnils of a railway lino and is eighty
miles northwest of Bucharest. Tho fato
, of Campolun? was sealed when tho Austro
Germans captured Pletescl.
Tho capture of Caippolung was an
nounced by tho War Office today.
The Russian offensive continues In full
wing along tho Carpathian Mountains,
tut tho small local advantages gained were
paid for with heavy losses, the official state
ment says.
The capture of 4898 Russo-Rumanlan
i prisoners Is reported,
On the northern frontier of Rumania all
resistance has been broken by tho Gcr
I mans south of Toerzberg Pass and tho road
,from that district Into the interior of Ru
mania Is now open.
On the southern frontier the array of the
Danube continues its advance toward
Bucharest ,
The text of the official report follows:
Army group of Archduke Josef
In the wooded Carpathians and tho
Moldavian frontier tho Russians have
continued their attacks without obtain
ing any important results. They suf
.fered heavy losses and had to be con
tent with only small local advantages.
In western Rumania we pushed back
hostile canguards. In addition to
Pltescl wp captured Campolung on
Wednesday, By this capture the road
through to Toerzburg pass has been
opened.
At that point we captured forty
seven olllcera, WOO men of the' ranks,
seven cannons and much baggage. Tha
captures were made by Bavarians.
Captain von Borcke, of her Maj
esty's regiment of cuirassiers, reported
the' capturo of seventeen Rumanian
otttcera and 1200 men near Clolanestl,
Ten cannons and three machine guns
were taken also,
Army grqup of Field Marshal von
Mackensen The Danube army con
tinues its advance, fighting Its way for
ward, During" attacks against the Ru
manians the Slesvlg-Holsteln, Buecke
burg and Bavarian reserve rifle regi
ments have .captured forty-three offi
cers, 2481 men, two heavy guns, thlrty
tix Held guns, several small cannon
and seven machine guns, as well as
thirty-two ammunition carts.
On the front northwest of Monastlr
attempts by the enemy to advance
failed. The Serbians, who have been
OoflUnatd co Fife Three. Column Two
THE WEATHER
For Philadelphia and vidnltvOver-
and colder today; tomorrow fair and
der,
XESOTH OF DAY
TiM 7:03 .ra.Uoan ri.. .10:39 p.m.
9l. ... 4U3P.H1. I&iwm feuiu. p.u p.m.
DELAWARE BIVKK T1D CHANCES
CHESTNUT STREET
vitir -12:21 .in. II.w wettr. .12.34 v.m.
ih ter . B'20s-.nMHla w.ur. . fi.lSpja.
WSMFiniATtmB AT EACH HOC
ai IBT'iiTlSTr
siasissisHsKSiiWKsslI
BBS1 irolwV wCTfcv'V" P32r
Di)'iij'.ji.iij7r.iMjrjjr' jj i 'ijHriflpTJLi1 .i7.1'iiq 11 u!'2iiJMLVj.Pir.-!iiiJiiiyM
,;...;.rrrre'r-- . ly.-gw -j'-p flyer," ,7W XXnZ.Tf'' - -'r' a'jrr-jigy.'".ygY-w.ir r-v.r-. .-.--srrrrr.r --rr---.,rAy:y:Trvr;fm'!rr -ffrrT','mara
CAMPOLUNG
CAPTURED BY
iryrgrgTwrw
CORNELL MEETS PENN
OF MEADOWBROOK
WIEGAND STARS IN
ST. JOE'S WIN; 19-0
Scores Two and Engineers
Another Touchdown
Against Catholic
High
DECIDES CATHOLIC TITLE
HOUSTON FIELD, Nov. 30. St. Joseph's
College won tho Cnthollo school champion
ship of this city this morning by defeating
tho Catholic High School eleven, 19 to 0.
The gamo was played on a gridiron that was
a mass of mud.
The weight of the victor was such that
It had little dimculty smashing Its lighter
opponent's line. Tha Purple and Gold was
outweighed almost fifteen pounds to tho
man. but the playors fought a hard, aggres
sive battle.
Tho first touchdown was scored at the
start of the Becond porlod, when Wlegand,
after a series of line smashes, crashed
through right tackle tor the score. A long
forward pass, Wlegand to Bums, good for
2C yards, made the second score.
Line plunging, intermingled with severnl
short forward passes over the line of scrim
mage, was responsible for the third and
last touchdown. The Catholic High lino
made a valiant stand In tho shadow of its
goal posts, but the terrific line plunging of
Wlegand and Grlbben proved too much for
them. The latter scored the touchdown on
the fourth down.
A crowd of 6000 witnessed the game, the
stands belr.g packed long before play was
started.
Only one penalty was Inflicted during the
game and St. Joseph was tho culprit.
FIRST PERIOD
Catholla nigh kicked off. It was a poor
kick and stopped on ,St. Joe's S5-yard line,
Gallagher punted to Catholic's 25-yard line.
Unable to gain, Cunningham punted out
of bounds on his 80-yard line. A forward
pass by Dougherty went, over tha goal line
for a touchback. Catholic started from
their 20-yard line.
Bracken made 3 yards oft tackle. Cun
ningham made E more pn a fake kick. He
Continued on I'flie KItht, Column till
PITT AND STATE ARE
CONFIDENT OF VICTORY
Powerful Western Pennsylvania
Elevens Clash at Forbes
' Field
lilt. . SUte.
Sutherland ....... left suard,..,, 1'arrUa
I'rik- (cautaln), , . , ..renter , . . . C'onaf rr
Rtldei .... '! Hint Utkle.,,.,.. Cnkl
llVrron '"........ rUM .nil II IiiJm
Marrow .!..... .quarterback,. ,......, , Kulm
IlIalK 7,, 7t .. halfbarW .(c.plaln) Clark
ii"ir" . : r : -rish t .&"
McLaren .fullback 1U
Beferee J. A. Krajw. WlHtams. !milr
BltrrlmaJi. Ucneva. Head Unuman-rUaxwell,
mTarthmoie- Tim of Quarter Jllteea ulo-
PITTSBURGH, Nov. 30. Football en
thusiasts from ail parts of the Keystone
State, from the neighboring States and, in
fact, from all over the country today
poured Into Pittsburgh by trains, cars and,
automobiles for the annual football cjassjo
aForbes Field this afternoon between ,jSe
elevens representing University of Plftsf
burgh and State College. The hotels were
all booked eolld and all the reserve as
lor the game were gone eariy. Indleatjgns
were that the biggest crowd that ever M
tended a football gra weat of the JJfe
ghate vm. 1ft &fi4f9. WJMggjJII
Ayfirts'sr-wMsU tt JiMV' .-asP
CLUB'S CROSS-COUNTRY RUN
COLGATE ELEVEN
CRUSHES BROWN
Powerful Providence Team
Crumbles Before Batter
ing of Hamilton Boys
on Muddy Field
SCORE IN EVERY PERTOD
Bu tTnltml JYm
ANDREWS FIELD, Providence. R. I.,
Nov. 30 Colgate overwhelmed tho much
heraldod Brown cloven today, 28 to 0. The
Brunonlana woro powerless to oopo with
tho shifty, driving Maroon attack, which
swept down tho field desplto nnkle-deep
mud and n steady downpour of rnln.
At every department of tho gamo the bril
liant Hamilton olevon outclassed tho Bru
nonlana. Tho Mnroon attack slid off tackle
for successive flret downs, tho Brown lines
men being easily boxed.
Pollard, tho dusky Brown star,' faleld to
shine and was smothered every time ho
took tho ball.
The Href Colgate touchdown came within
flvo minutes after the whistle started tho
game and from then on Colgate porststently
threatened tho Brown goal.
Anderson, Spencer, West and Hubbell,
who punted for Colgate, Btnrred for the
winners, whllo Hlllhouse's punting was the
one redeeming feature of tho Brunonlana'
playing.
FIRST PERIOD
Horning kicked oft for Colgate to Jemall
on Brown's 10-yard line nnd ho carried It
back 13 yards.
Jemall made 2 yards on the first play.
Hlllhouse punted to Anderson on Colgate's
30-yard line, and he ran It back 10 yards.
Spencer broke through left tacltlo for 8
yards. Spencer again broke loose and car
ried the ball to Brown's i 3-yard lino for
a first down. GUlo got a yard through
canter. Spencer was stopped without gain.
Anderson made n successful pass to OHIO
and It was first down on Brown's 33-yard
line. He was tackled by Jemall.
Anderson went nround left nd for 13
yards before he was forced out of bounds'
by Pollard on the 22-yard line, aillo punc
tured left guard for a 3-ynrd gain. QlIIo
fumbled, but It was recovered by .Spencer.
A forward pass hit the ground. Brown was
Continued on fuse r.ltht. Column Tbrta
KYR0NEN VICTOR IN
MEADOWBROOK RACE
Finishes Third in Handicap
Cross-Country Race Cap
tured by Lieberman
A field of seventy of the best runners In
this city and others trailed at the heels of
the Flnlander, V, Kyronen, Mtllrose A. A.,
amateur champion cross-country runner of
the United States, "who won the prize for
the fastest timo today over the five-mile
Robertson-Cobb's Creek course, Sixty-third
and Walnut streets. ,
With his handicap of three minutes and a
half, the dynamic little Fin took ;he first
prize for the best time made over the
course, even though his actual finishing
place was third. The race, which was the
annual Meadowbrook Club handicap cross
country run, was won by Joseph Lieber
man, a student of the University of Penn
sylvania, who was home in the elapsed time
of 31:25.
The junior race was won by Robert nu
ark, followed by Dick Jones. The Inter
mediate race, over a distance of two and a
half miles was won by Alfred Turner, who
was closely trailed by John A. Whlttaker.
The summary j
Biassed
MEAPOWBHOOS HANOJCAP "m'.
J-JOMBt MeUnnea. UnlvsriUr of ..
31 -iJuu i "
CaUaM J em Stm Jfew. J itwa few
PHILADELPHIA, THURSDAY, NOVEMBER
RWILL
RITY
OF INSURANCE
Will Recommend Stringent
. Measures in Message to
Legislature
PROBE SURE IF NEEDED
Oovernor Brumbaugh declared today he
will urge the enactment of tho most
stringent Insurance taws In his next mes
sage to tho Legislature. Tho Governor
will Insist on the enactment of laws which
will give full protection to every policy
holder In Pennsylvania,
Oovernor Brumbaugh also will probably
urge the Legislature to order n sweeping In
vestigation of Insurance conditions In tho
State. Tho proposed nction of Governor
Brumbaugh, together with tho announce
ment that Mayor Smith would order an
Investigation of the policy Insurance
scandal In Philadelphia, caused a double
sensation In ofllclal circles today, especially
when It became tynown that Seth H. U'hlte
ley had been named by another Insurance
man as the "mysterious philanthropist,"
who cleaned up approximately $100,000 by
Insuring members of the Police Beneficiary
Association In this city.
Should an Investigation be conducted to
ascertain the present business methods of
Pennsylvania Insurance companies. Gover
nor Brumbnugh believes that Charles Evans
Hughes or somo Fennsylvanlan of the 1st
ter'a typo .would make an excellent In
quisitor.
DENIES TOUTICS IN CASE
Governor Brumbaugh, who today Is at
his home, 251 West Walnut lane, German
totvn, denied that potltlci was behind the
Investigation Into the affairs of tho Pen
sion Mutual Life Insurance Company and
the Union Casualty Insurance Company.
The stand taken by State Insuance
Commissioner J, Denny O'Nell to make n
thorough Inquiry, no matter who la im
plicated In the present State-wide Insur
ance scandal, will be backed up by the
Governor,
'I wish you would deny tho stories that
politics figures In the Investigation now
being conducted by Commissioner O'Nell,"
said Governor Brumbaugh, as he empha
sized each word of his statement,
"There Is no politics In the present In
quiry, but. In Justice to Mr, Wood, I wish
to say that he will be treated fairly and
just. He will receive tho same fair treat-
Contlnutd on Fate Tno, Column Tbrta
CORNELL ROOTEns HERE;
RAIN STOPS GREETING
Bear Mascot, Full of rep, Arables
Along With Glee aa Party Ar
rives From Ithaca
Rain prevented the usyat hearty recep
tion tq Cornell rooters when they arrived
at the Reading Terminal this morning.
The train shed was almost deserted, and
the few- spectators who Were waiting for
trains regarded tho followers of the Ithaca
eleven with cold, apathetic eyes.
The first section was composed of eleven
cars, from which tumbled the Big Red
soccer team, S2S undergrade, a band and
tho famous bear mascot. The bear was
full of pep and ambled about the shed
with glee; the band reserved its tingling
tunes for the game this afternoon, while
the students were openly confident of tho
ability of their favorites to trim Penn.
The second section arrived soon after the
first, but the third was delayed until
almost noon, by which, lune prospects tav
good weather conditions were improved,
perhaps as courtesy to the thirty-five co-eds,
who bd traveled from New York State to
Wf ft 8Ntt wtlsfeianA ifr tt&l?
30, 1910
Constant, 1918,
LATEST
TODAY'S FOOTBALL SCORES
PENN 7
'CORNELL te 3
BROWN ..,,,,, O .
COLGATE ,., '" ' 7,,
PITT. rM(tti 9
PENN ST ATE .',
W. AND J , . G.
RUTGERS, ,,..... .....1 O
SCHOLASTIC FOOTBALL SCORES
VILLAN'VAP. 2 0
CHESTER II.. 0 0
0 0-8
0 0- 0
CAMDEN II... 0
CAMDEN A... 7
LA SALLE C
LA SALLE A.. '
0 0 0-0
0 0 7-LI
-
CATII. HIGH.. 0 0 0 0- 0
ST.JOSEPH'S. 0 G 0 7-10
PENN LEADS CORNELL, 7-3,
EARLY IN FIRST PERIOD
Penu scored n touchdown aiul Cornell n l'luhl yonl ruisy .-. Uic
first iicnocl, mnltliif; tliu. score 7 to a.
Cornell von the aifcB inul decided to receive thy lclclc-ott. They
defended thu west goal and were favored by a slight wind. Captain
Mathews lcickcd-off for 3?cm, but the ball tinvolctl only 10 yards;
Anderson, Cornell'o right guard, falling- on thd. hall. TZo l'enu cap
tain slipped as ho watt about to hoot tho ball. Mueller tried to -cut
outside Little, hut was throw without gain.. Shtvorlek tried tno other
end, hut Mathews losacd him for a 3-yard loss. Hhlvorick thou nude
a splendid punt, which wont out ot hounds on 1'chu'b 0-yard line,
Berry tried the right side of Cornell's lino uu a fake kick, but
gained only two yards. Tho same-play was tried again, and tho l'enu
tullback was thrown without a gain, ono of his own men colliding
with him. Berry punted out or. bounds o nhls own'UO-yaru line,
Speed tridtl to cut through Ilenning's guard, but was stopped.
Miller rando 3 yarfls on tho nest play through. Little, but Horr
mnli could got only' another yard. Shlverlck dropped back to Venn's
40-yard lino nnd kicked n goal from field. Cornell, 3; l'cnn, O.
Mathews made another short kick-off, Speed taking the ball on his v
20-yard ltuo and returning 0 -yards. Shlverlck punted to Bell, who
caught tho hall on his 35-yard line and dodged his way bacTc Tor 10
yards. Derr smashed through a holo mado by Helming for M yards.
Ho had a clear field when Hoffman nailed him. Ho gaTneu 5 more
yards through tho same spot and then hurled a forwaiS pass to Light
for 0 yards more, placing tho ball on Cornell's 30-yard lino. On a
double pass, Derr to Berry, 3 yards moro were gatno.d. Hoffman
united Berry on a wide end run. Bert Boll held tho hall until Urqu
hart circled around the otherind and look tho hall on the run. Urqu
hart went over the lino for a touchdown. Berry kicked the goal.
Score, rciin, 7j Cornell, 3. ,
There .was no score in the remainder of tho period, which ended
with the hall lit Pom's possesion on' Jier own 38-yard Hue.
' ' ' ' ;- i 1 :--'..
CHILDREN TO TAKE PEACE SIOVEyPLEA TO WILSON
NEW VOIUC, Nov. 30. Eight boys and girls will bear to 1'rosldont "Wilson
tomorrow a peace resolution adopted lost night by 600 porsons in I'ubllo School No,
4, nivington and Vltt streets. The resolution asks that the Presldont "use tho great
power of his offlco now" to stop tho war. The meeting w'as called by the American
Forum. Thoso chlldron, dressed In the uniforms of the boy and girl police organ
Ued by tho 13ast Side Protective Association, will ho received by the President at 1
o'clock, Suptorlntendent Harry Bchlact announced. Schlact announced plans to
have 100,000 children parade in the city, their heads down, in silent prayer, on
Christmas Day as a protest against war,
HARIIY LAUDER TO BE KNIGHTED NEW YEAR'S
NEW TORK, Nov, 80. News was brought here from Scotland by the Anchor
liner Tuscanla that Harry Louder, the Bcotch comedian, is on tho King's list of
Now Year's honors for a knighthood In recognition of hla services in obtolnlnBrr
cruita for tho army since the war. The comedian has spent $100,000 In ( paying
for a band of pipers to travel all over Scotland aiding reeruitlnaand In sums given
for war relief. In addition, It was said, Lauder had given his services freely at
concerts which have realized thousands of dollars for the funds.
SAN DIEGO, CAL., LEADS NATION IN SUICIDES
. Philadelphia's suicide rate declined slightly last year. It was 18.7 to JOO.OOO
population, a decrease of X per cent from the five-year period of, 19J0-J9H, the
rata of whioh was 17.7. Of all the large cities Philadelphia's rata is among the
smallest Tho cjly Saving the highest In'
a rate of 33.3 tp 100,000 population. The, statistics were compiled by insurance
agencies,
BLAST BLOWS BABY FROM WINDOW; MOTHER FOLLOWS
Mrs. Alice Walters, 63 WUlard street, Caroden, became paple-strioken when
an oil stove exploded In her home and threw her flfteen-montb-pld. baby from a
second-story window. The woman then leaprt from the wlndo MJt&eT Pd
ohjld acre Is & crltlal .condition at th Ceopsr Hospital, Tha damagajjsflr w.
sHfhjr
r n Postto Ltrorn Cosiri.tt.
SPORTS
3
O
P
7
O
7
O
7
- 0
-28
S. PIIILA.H... 0 0 7 0-7
WILM'NGT'N. 0 0 0 0- 0
MEDIA HIGH.
MEDIA II. A...
POTTSTOWN.
tfOR'IST'N H.
NAT. FARM S.
P. I. D A.
1915 was San piego, In California, with
'
PRICE ONE CENT
PENN-C0RNELL
GAME STAGED
N SEA OF MUD
Both Elevens Confident aa
They Trot Out for Final
Football Tilt
ROOTERS ENTHUSIASTIC
Teams Hnvo Long Preliminary
Drill to Becomo Accus
tomed to Slush x
Inn. Cornell.
trrqnhnrt ........ 1-f n. llrfmon
Milh- lrft tnrki.,,...,.. OMIle
jttnnlnc left cunnl Miller
'"' ..rjnUr., .......... t'nri
l.atrrnTiuic . ...rlflil rimrtl Anderson
J .It t to ,riihl tnfkle., .,..,. Jenrtt
.Miller ........ .rlcht nd JWlcr
Ilrll ... .... .. .qimrlrrtinck. ...... HhlTerlck
lrrr lrft Imltlinrk. ...... llofTrann
l.liht rlilit hitlfbatk........ Mpml
ltrrrr fiilllmck Jtnfller
OfTltlnl llrfrrn-. rj. J. MrCartr. Gr-tnnnton-ni
timnlri II. I l"iillt. Ilroirni line.
men. Wllnirr Crowell, rlimrlhraoret Held
Judre, H. H. nkenon, Jibuti.
By CHANDLER D. RICHTE& .
FJIANKLIM FIELD, Philadelphia,4 Nor. .
SO. Pennsylvania and Cornell played the
final game of tho season this afternoon on
-. field that was n sea of mud. Deforo the
two teams had been tramping around on the
field the Bod appeared to be fairly Arm,
but It Boon was evident that a battle very -much
like -the famous" contest between the
lied and Dluo and Cornell In 190$ would
bo repeated.
Coaches Sharpe nnd Fornrell both ln
ststod that It was itn even bet, and pre
dicted victory If tho breaks were oven,
Cornell came out upon the field much
carllor than la the usual custom. Tho Big
Hod team took tho field for prnctlco at
1:37, Conch Sharps desiring his men to
becomo accustomed to handling the wet
ball. Thoy wore glvon a generous recep
tion by the crowd, but there wore not many
on hand when Sharpe put his team on the
field.
Tho crowd was unusually slow to arrloe
nt tho flold. As a rulo, the stands are
filed fifteen minutes bofore game time, but
today not more than 8000 spectators wore
on hnnd at this time. They wero coming
In sWdy streams, however, and as32,000
tickets -weres old, It was certain that thore
would bo no empty seats shortly after the
game started.
In tho punting practice prior to the start
of the game, Shlverlck, Cornell's moat
touted punter, appeared ot havo a. grcati '
practice kicks did not average lO yarda""- -'"
and after working out a few minute's, he '
went down the field to receive punts, while
Hoffman was taken in hand by Coach
Sharpe.
lie booted the ball E0 and SO yards con
sistently, and It looked as It he might
sharo the kicking burden with Shlvdrlck.
Ponn came on tho field nt 1:64 and was
given a wonderful reception. Aa the' Fenn
team came on the field, the Cornelllans re
turned to the dressing room for a final
lecturo by Coach Sharpe.
In the punting drill Just before the game
started, Howard Berry had wonderful dis
tance, two of his klclcs traveling 70 yards
before touching the ground. He was fa
vored by only a slight wind,
H0LLWEG SETS
PEACE DEMANDS
Tells Reichstag Existence
and Future Security Must
Be Guaranteed -
READY ON THESE TERMS
BEIUJrtf, Nov. JO. Germany la ready,
for a peace which will guarantee her ex
istence and 'her future but since Ger
many's enemies ore not yet desirous ot
peace, Germany will go confidently forward
In war.
So declared tha Imperial Chancellor, ,
Theobold von Rethmann-IIollweg in thV
Reichstag today, Introducing the 'new bill
for a national auxiliary service tho mobil
isation of civilians.
"The war continues with Its destructive '
forces," the Chancellor declared. "Thus our
enemies desire It They are celebrating
the last summer aa a period of victory.
But did they obtain what they wantedT
Our lines are unbroken and Rumania, in
which a great change ot events Is expected,
now atones for what It did,
"God has helped us up to now and He
will help us further.
"The almost superhuman heroism of dur
troops, which cannot be expressed In words
of thanks, and tho clear conscience that Wa
have as the first and only ones who are
ready to end the war by a peace guaran
teeing our existence and our future gives,
us a moral right to such confidence.
"But, gentlemen, this right ought not; to
make us forget our duty. Our enemies ao-
not yet want peace. They have superior.
numbers at their command and almost the .
whole iworld delivers them war roatrlalf .
In this contingency, the Chancellor ar
gued that It was necessary Germany d"'i
everything in, her power Ut manutastura "-" Is
war material. y "V '
"Hands that are Idle assist the enemy,.:
he said. -,'
He explaJaed that th bill ha4 fen fll"-"
cussed with the Interested trades a la
the Reichstag main committee.
"On behalf of: the ooafeditatea ,Ofnnh
aenta, he dwtered, X uk. for- j itf; . .
la, thla xtt work WW (!( jta m
mn toegj'j$gd' mi: . tasyt -"
-'-' " " ' t -. "-r&
k
ft
H
