THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWEXTY-SKVENTII YEAH
12 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, THURSDAY MORNING, NOVEMBER 30, 1916
12 PAGES
VOL. XXVII., NO. 195
SCARE
!WEESAWTR00r3lf.
DAmiuub
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
KANSAS CITY. Nov. 2!. No devel
opments have appeared in ihe last 24
hours in the infection at the locut
stock yards, against which federal and
state officials have flung a lar-reacn-i
K embargo in the fear that it might
prove to he foot and mouth disease.
In the light of the non-appearance of
additional suipoms the livestock ex
perts, among whom are Dr. Adolph
Kichhorn, chief of the Pathological de
partment of the hureaii of animal in
dustry in Chicago and ir. James Flem
ing, representing the lical bureau, ex
pressed the opinion tonight that the
disease which has 1 een marked only by
mouth lesions. might prove other than
the foot and mouth disease and develop
into a condition which possibly might
define a new malady. However, judg
ment is being withheld pending further
tests. Further inoculation was begun
today with cattle, horses and swine. In
no cases here have foot lesions been
found.
The livestock inoculated several days
ngo was examined and is expected to
show results soon.
I. c. c. takestteps
rRenoblirn A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Nov. 29. As an em
ergency measure to relieve the freight
car shortage, the Interstate Commerce
Commission today authorized railroads
to establish and maintain until May 1
next, a progressive demurrage scale,
higher than the present flat rate of tt
a day. The scale is a compromise be
tween the proposed graduated schedule
in the railroad tariffs recently suspend
ed and the rates suggested by ship
pers' "interests."
The rates will become effective three
days after each railroad files with the
commission its formal schedule, or
probably within a week.
I'nder the new seals, two free days
are allowed and then charges are SI
for the third day, 12 for the fourth day,
S3 for the fifth, and S3 for the sixth
and each day thereafter. The rule that
charges shall be suspended on days
wheTf wTatherpTrvehtirtmloadinK and
the so-called averag agreement by
which credit is allowed shiper8 who
unload in less than the two free days,
are retained.
The suspended schedules provided
for two free days and charges of S3
for the third day, S3 for the fourth, (4
for the fifth, and S5 for the sixth and
each day thereafter, with the weather
rule eliminated, and the average agree
ment modified. The National Industrial
Traffic League, a shippers' organiza
tion, at a hearing, made a suggested
miu i.t tt a ilflv for th third und
fourth davs. S2 a day for the fifth and
sixth days, and S3 for each day there-
after.
Commissioner McChord. who ts di-
recting an investigation of car short-
age, explained today that the commis-
sion's order was intended only to stlm-
ulate prompt unloading and thereby re-
lieve the pressing needs of industries
for more cars.
n
CUDAHY DIRECTORS )NCREASED
ro..,rMean A. P Leased Wire
CIIICAGO, Nov. 29. At the annual !
0 STOP SHORTAGE
OF RAILROAD CARS
me.,K oi stockholders of the Cudahy cutor. His testimony consisted pr.n
packing company held today at Port- icipully of the brief statement:
land Maine, the number of directors I "My father and mother loved each
was increased irom tnree to live ana
the following chosen: E. A. Cudahy.
J. M. Cudahy. K. A. Cudahy Jr., G. C.
Shepard and H. F. Wilkins. The latter
two are old employes of the company
and were elected to the new directorate.
Liter the board of directors met in
Chicago and elected the following of
ficers for the ensuing year: President,
K. A. Cudahy: vice president. K. A.
Cudahy, Jr.; treasurer, John K. Wag
ner: secretary, A. W. Anderson. K. A.
Cudahy formerly was president and
treasurer and John E. Wagner was
secretary.
FOOTBALL PLAYER DIES
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
PITTSUIRG, Nov. 2S. William A.
Jones, aged 20, of Munhall, I'a., mem
ber of a football team representing the
dental department of the University of
1'ittsburg, died late today from In
juries received in a game on Novem
ber 3. Jones was kicked In the spine
and paralyzed.
Prices on the Coast Soar Upward
Republican A P. Leased Wire
HAN FRANCISCO, ,ov. 2H. The
pinch of high prices for virtually every
commodity that goes to make up a
Thanksgiving dinner was felt today by
market shoppers in every city of size
on the Pacific coast. The smaller com
munities were more favored by reason
of their proximity to the trudt gardens
and poultry fasms and the cost of sup
plies was not quite so emphasized as
in the centers of population. Turkeys
generally were to be had at prices
ranging from twenty-five to thirty-;
eight cents per pound, but at these fig- i
tnes, which were only slightly higher j
than those of last year, there was no;
lac k of purchasers. I
A careful appraisal of sentiment in !
San Francisco by the poultry retailers;
developed that there was little likeli- i
hood of a boycott" on turkeys and as a;
result, 2",n tons of dressed turkeys h,ve j
been shipped to the local markets in
the last two days. Mince pies and con
fections have soared, however. This
was explained by dealers as rcsoltin-r
from the price of ers. which retailed
today at sixty cents a dozen. Raisins.
on or the chief products of California,
were 3r.c a pound, whereas last year
they were 22c. Pumpkin pies cost six
ty cents; butter was ninety cents for a
two-pound square, and bread was six
cents a loaf.
Southern Idaho, a turkey country,1
was not Immune from the high prices
for that favored fowl, reiort from
VILL AIS IN CHIHUAHUA
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
KL PASO, Nov. 29. The first for
eign refugee to leave Chihuahua City
since the siege began, arrived here to
night, reporting that Villa and Julio
Acosta were in control of part of the
city, when he made his escape by au
tomobile at 2 o'clock this morning.
Owing to the fact that he had been
in close hiding, he explained that he
had no means of knowing first hand
just what had happened, or even the
whereabouts of lieneral Trevino.
Carranza forces were holding hard
to their part of the city, according to
the refugee, who added that he un
derstood that all the foreigners were
safe, at least to the extent of leaving
the area through which Villa fought
hin way.
He reported having seen 185 bandits
at Los Taiuiues, a small settlement a
short distance southwest of Guadalupe
and about 30 miles southeast of Juarez.
He said the column was moving In
general direction of Villa Ahumadu.
south of Juarez and were all well armed
and eiilpied. He was not molested
by tile bandits, he said, as the head of
the column had passed out of sight
when he passed through Lis 'families i
and he saw only the rear guard, he
said
I'nited States army officers stationed
at Kuhens. Texas, 82 miles southeast
of here, and opposite Guadalupe, Chi
huahua, were notified today and dis
patched scouts to investigate the pres
ence of bandits so near the border. The
Juarez military officers were also no
tified of the reported presence of the
bandit force.
Cannon firing ceased some time early
Monday morning, but the small arms
firing continued through Monday and
Tuesday, the refugee said upon his ar
rival here by way of Villa Ahumada
and Guadalupe. He admitted knowing
nothing more about the military situa
tion in the capital than the reiorts
brought to him from time to time by
servants and others, , who came to his
home, which is near the home of Gen
eral Trevino, he said.
He was tld. he said, that Villa was
at the Ameni.!i Smelting and Refin
ing companj a plant with a force of
men. This is east of the city. He said
much of the fighting had been confined
to the south, as Villa entered the town
from that side on List Thursday morn
ing. The refugee explained that he
bad not been out of his house since
that time until he left in his automo
bile for the border.
hen he left at z a. m
todav he '
said he could hear rifle shots in dif- rived in Juarez tonight after a trip as
ferent parts of the city, but was not far south as Sauz, 2S miles from Chl
molested as he drove out. Only to
men appeared on the street down which .. (Continued ion rage Two)
ACCUSED PROSECUTOR
ON STAND IN EFFORT
TO. PROVE INNOCENCE
Rem.blicar A. P. Leased Wire
I f" T. JOSkPH, Mo.. Nov. 2J. The
Idefense of Oscar U. McDaniet, pto-i-
' editing attorney of Buchanan county,
"who is on trial on the charge of hav-
inR murdered his wife, clowd late to-
I d;'y a"d court adjourned until Friday
I when the introduction of states rebut-
till testimony will begin.
After the accused man had occu-
' pled the stand a large part of the day,
the defense ended Its case With th. -
j introduction of Odell MclHiniel 12
years old. son of the indicted prow-
Mr. McDaniel was called to the
stand after his aged father and two
of his sisters hud testified that Ms
married life had been happy.
"Did you assautl yctir wife?" he
was asked on direct examination.
' I did not," MclJanlel answered.
The court room audience was th
largest that his attended any session
of the trial and heard the prosecutor
ell his story calmly. He sat with
hands clasped most of the time he
was on the stand. Now and then. In
the tense silence that pervaded the
court room during his testimony, he
drew his handkerchief from his pocket
and wiped his lips.
Mr. McUanlel gave his version of
l.p events the night of the murder,
July 14. This was that he had left his
hom about 7:41 p. m. to go to lodge
but had left there about an hour later
to watch two road houses comernlng
which complaint was made. The cni-
r.lnint wnu m:t,le in Keritember Islf,
'and again In April, MeDaniel :iiJ, but
Boise stating that "turkeys were bring-
uK i ne unpreceuenieo price oi a- cenis
a pound." Shipment of the birds from
the Roise valley, it was said, will total"
well above SI 00.000 this year. j
In Portland. Ore., the prke of turkey
today ranged from 2S to 30 cents. Job
bers there cleaned up their stocks but I
many fowls were left In the hands of j
the retailers. These, It was said, will '
STANDARD OIL HOLDINGS
ARE BEING MENACED
NEW YORK, Nov. 29. Wireless dispatches from Berlin reportinj a
decision of the Rumanian government to destroy plants connected with
the extensive oil fields of the countr were read without apparent trepi
dation today at tha local offices of the Standard Oil company, which hat
holding there valued at between $7,000,000 and $10,000,000.
The last word received here fron the company's representative in
Bucharest arrived two days ago, aeiording to an official of the company,
stating briefly "all well." Whether t'ii alluded to the personnel of it
Human an company, which includes a number of Americana, or to the
situation in general, the local offiri were unable to determine. They
expreeted "the utmost confidence" in the ability of their representative
and of the United States government to do all in their power to guard
American interests in Rumania.
. ..Tn" oPut. up to 30 days ago aeraged 700 barrels of petroleum
rjaily. The main offices are at Bue larest with an American named
Sadler in charge. ,
he drove, he said, and neither of them
challenged him.
The foreigner said he had heard of
looting In the business section of the
city, but had not verified this report
and diil not know whether the looting
was done by the bandits or by the na
tive residents of the town, who took
advantage of the situation to rob the
stores and houses.
The refugee said he had no way of
ascertaining the whereabouts or safety
of the other foreigners In the city, as
he did not dare leave his home for fear
of being shot. However, ne added, that
he did not believe any foreign resi
dents had been killed. He said he was
sure he would have heard of It bad
any of them been shot during the fight
ing or executed by tne nandits. He
said little damage had been done to
the city, as Villa had no cannon when
he attacked.
After slipping out of his garage in
a high power automobile which he had
had packed since the fight started,
ready to leave as soon as he consid
ered it safe, the foreign refugee made
a dash for the plains to the north of
the state capitol, he said. He passed
h number of bands of bandits between
the city and the border, he added, one
ban i being encountered near Sauz. He
sum mese ounuiis snouieu, v ivu ilia
as h- passed In his automobile, the
flax of his country flying on the car.
The bandits did not stop him, he said,
nor fire In his direction. He saw an
other band further north, he said, but
waR not near enough to ascertain who
they were.
He did not pass through Sauz. going
within two miles of this town, he said,
nor did he know whether or not any
foreign refugees or Curranza troops
were at Sauz or Terruzas. He stopped
at Villu Ahumada, where he was de
tained teiiiMirarily by the Carranza
guards, but was permitted to continue
to the border, lie aid ne passed a
train coming north, which he believed
to be the train carrying General Gon
zales of Juarez, as he had been told the
general's train was on the road south
of Juarez. He did not know whether
or not uny refugee train was on the
road between Sauz and Juarez, al
though he was told at Luguna station,
he suid, that a train was expected north
from Sauz some time during the day.
Gonzales Returns
Jl'ARFZ. Nov. ZS. General Francis
co Gonzales, commanding the Carranza
garrison In northern Chihuahua, ur-
hud not previously be.n Icoked Into.
He returned to l is home about 11
o'clock, talked to his wife, who hud
j retired, and left fifteen or twenty
minutes later to answer a telephone
call which said his brot.ier was In
I trouble in a saloon,
He found the call untrue, he said,
went to two other saloon-i. and r-
turned home about midnight. He en-
gaged In a pistol duel outside the
1 house and li en went into the hous;
it', get another weapon. Heard "font-
steps through the weeds' which lie
uppored to have !een his assailant.
he said. When he entered the home
he found his wife had been attacked
and r.as lying "in a pool of blood."
Mr. Marker's cross examination
brought out that Mdfcmiel was versed
In criminal law and "had studied the
big murder cases" of the last lew
ve.ws. To question as to whether he
had been "trying to arrange an alibi"
the witness declared he "would have
had latrolmcn with him throughout
the night If such had been my Inten
tions." The prosecnt kpg attorney questioned
him nt length upon the burning of -i
mattress with fcl w ife's tied, the morn
ing his wile died.
Mr. Mi Daniel said he had ."ttached
Utile importance to ' lu as "l e pre
sumed police officers had obtained all
the evidence possible."
The examination ended when Mr.
Marker drew from the wiiness that
he carried life Insurance policies total
ing 1V upon the life of Mrs. McDa
niel. However, McDaniel testified he
had "spent more than this nmoiint al
ready In uttemptlng to find her mur-ile-ed."
be held In cold storar- for the Christ
mas trade.
At Tacoma, Wash., turkey prices
broke sharply during the day under re
ceipts from Oregon and early tonight
prices of the birds which had been
quoted at 3 to 38 cents a pound were
sold from 32 to 3ii cents. Staples, how
ever, averaged about 20 per cent higher
than last year.
NIN DEMONS
HAUL I UUftT
Nine starters will line up at shortly
before one o'clock this aiternoon, for
a hundred-mile race, the m ist quickly
promoleu event ever staged in Ari
zona. With the drawing for positions
yesterday and the passing of cars by
the technical committee, all arrange
ments were completed, uud today, ob
servers of Thanksgiving will witness
a trial of speed that will ' certainly
surpass that of fair week, when most
of today's cars comR-ted for the same
distance.
All the cars in today's ra e except
the Ford of Thoniason and the Mercer
of Roy Meacham and the I 'ope of
Hoyt Medler. were In the state fair
century. Hubert Delno, winner i.f the
first lUu-miler, will start today as
the favorite, but there is nobody
rot even himself but admits lie Hill
have more competition this afternoon.
H. G. Armstrong, driver of the Hud
son Siiier-Six goes into the race will:
considerable money backing him. Many
bettors are also favoring the Merre
team, entered by Johnnv 1'oling. and
driven by himself and Hoy Meacham.
wro rode as mechanic in lhu,firl
rti re.
Meacham v iil drive the new Mener.
which was shipjied In by express and
Worked over eslerday in time for the
InstM-ctlon by the committee.
Tom Hrewer of Globe, driving the
;ime Mormon with which lie won
fourth money during the f :lr Is loo'nl
upon with favor as a finisher within
the monev. The rumor hn got urounl
that 'Red" hns something.
The Spa. which ran second to Ce
S'.utz No. 3 In the fair century until
a broken tire put It out, is anothe
entry from which large gobs of speed
are expected.
Hoyt Medler last night secured
Glen Thomas as mechanic, and will
drive his Pope -Hart ford.
Another interesting entry is the
Overland, wrlch ran the hundred with
out u halt during fair week. Adding
to the surprise of this performance
is the fact that the overland turned
over In practice the morning tif th"
race, and had to be repaired in dou'de
ouick time. Al. Gl.idney will he at th-
hel.
The race today sets a record for
speedy promotion. It as Just nine
days ago that a number of BUtomobi'e
men met In the P.epublican office and
fuured that if they could guar
antee the purse, so as to secure a
T'irce A sanction, they would get
enough of the southwestern .teed
kings In to make the race interesting.
Jen V. Prochaska. was asked to take
charge, and except for a flying two
day trlpto Glote, has been on the jo!
every minute. All the Innumerable de
tail attending an nutomohile track
race rave pasesed through his hands,
ami all h.ive. been attended to. Joe
s;icnt last evening touring uronnd the
ttnek on the big motor sprinkler,
kindly loaned t'V the city, to spre.id
oil on the track.
The track Is In splendid condition
for speed, it will be practically free
from dust, and will make the drivers
put on considerable thought for their
t'res. The pit work today should be
exceedingly Interesting.
The race has been so timed ns t-i
interfere a little as Mslhle with the
(Continued on rage Eight)
o
HOW PHOENIX WILL
CELEBRATE THE DAY
10:30 a. m Special services at Trin
ity Cathedral.
1 0 : 4 T. a. m SiKvlal services at
Christian Science chutch.
10-41 a. m. Thanksgiving services
'y V.lon Lutheran church at v. C.
T. V. office. 221 West Monroe.
l-.tiO m. Very seclal observance of
turkeys, cranberry sauce and pumpkin
pie In many Phoenix homes.
1:00 p. m. One hundred mile auto
mobile race at the state fair grounds
lasting until 2:40 o clock.
3: 'mi p. m Final football game of
the Inror season between Phoenix high
school and t'nited States Indian school.
at the Indian school grounds.
3: Ml to H:C0 p. m. Mor perlal idi
servance of the aforesaid .tirkev In all
Phoenix homes where such ceremonies
were not concluded at noon.
7::;o p. m. I'nion service nt First
Haptlst church. Dr. Ray C. Darker
of the First M. E. church will preach
the i hanksglving sermon.
7:3(i p m. Performances In all down
town theaters, and parties in many
homes.
Phoenix will observe Thanksgiving
In the good old way, but with a 10U
mile niito race added to the usual
football game. Kverything will be
closed except such businesses as are
necessary to care for and transport
people. There will be but one cltv
delivery of mail this morning and no
rural deliveries.
All banks, state, county and city of
fices except those of peace officers.
wl'l remain closed, as will city ticket
and freight offices on the railroads.
London Financial
Circles Surprised
At Federal Steps
fiepubllcir A. P. Leased Wire
IiNDOX, Nov. 29 Financial cir
cles In London were surprised by the
warning sent out by the American
federal reserve board, cautioning banks
not to invest their liquid ussets t.b
heavily In the British treasury notes
about to be offered In the American
market, nnd nt the first Impression it
was a disagreeable surprise.
The general feeling among business
men here Is tnat the entente ull
are such good customers of the I'nl
ted Slates that they can reasonably
expect all possible assoinodalion , ir
methods of payment and ulso that
Great Britain's financial standing re
mains so high that ull dames of
government securities hud been pro
tected in America, even under the
present circumstances, about as readi
ly as American securities wotud he
taken here. There has been a cerin'n
amount of criticism both in pailiim.-tu
and by financial writers of the gov
ermer.ts policy.
WARSHIP MAY GO FOR
AUSTRIAN
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
Vv AMI irti I ON. Nov. 29. The
T'nited fitates has-sent notes to Great stage of the negotiations when It Is
.Britain and France, it became known ; hoped that a firm statement of the
today, requesting re-consideration by I general principles of International law
those governments of their refusal to in the case will cause a re-considera-Issue
a safe conduct through their j tion by the allies, if the present note
blockade lines to Count Tarnowskl. the meets with an unsatisfactory response
new Austro-Hungarian ambassador toi it Is admitted that a very difficult sit-
this country, and speaking of the un
fortunate effect that a continued re
fusal would have fin opinion here.
Ihe notes point out that it iM an
International right of sovereign nations
10 escnange amnajisauors and Insist
that a third nation, even in time of
war. is not Justified in denying that
right.
Grciit care is taken to base the rep
resei:tatlons solely on the grounds of j
international rights distinguished from I
mere International rourtesy, making it I
ciear mat tne i niteu Males is not ask-'
ing a favor or assuming the attitude j
of a pleader
Care also is taken not to put the
government in the position of having
( hanged Its altitudcafdnce the last com
munication on the subject.
It was planned at first when tin- re
buff was received, to drop tin- position
of being a messenger of Austria und
make a formal demand in the name of
tne I rilled States.
NEW YORKERS WRATH Y
OVER TURKEY PRICES
REFUSE TO BUY THEM
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NKW YORK. Nov. '.'. New York's
turkey buying public has arisen in Its
wrath agnlnst the nonormal high cost
of living of the Thanksgiving day
fowl, and, as a result, there was a
semi-panic today among turkey deal
ers. According to Joseph Hartigan.
ommissioner of weights and mea
sures, the h'rte quantities of turkevs.
hiekens and geese shipied here
in i
anticipation of the high prices
of i
Thanksgiving eve. have remained in
the Ice boxes and stalls of merchants
until tonight, prices taking a down-
ward trend. The prevailing price has
been 3H cents and more a ound.
At the same time the dealers were
feeling the effects of the public's ln-
d.gimtion. a call for conceited upris
ing against the high cost of living
having been issued here by Mayor
Cornelius F. "turn of Troy, president
of the New York state conference of
mayors. The call advocated procla
mations by the governors of all states
and mayors of all cities of the nation
to le published broadcast and read in
schools and vhurches establishing davs
for a series of boycotts against high
priced foods.
Mayor Burns also .advocated, in ad
dition to those proclamations, the
opinion of housewives' leagues, mo
tion plctun- houses, and lalior organi
sations in the attitude of those activ
ities, according to merchants and pub
lic official has been the creation of
the most remarkable food situation in
the history of the nation's great feast
da y.
Mr. Hartigan made his announce
ment as to the panic condition fol
lowing his investigation Into the poul
try markets.
"The public Is being scared off bj
the excessive prices of the last few
days," he declared. "The price of 3
cents to 41 cents which iw obtains,
Is so high that the public speedily
Indicated Us refusal to buy, for the
price is beond its means. The deal-
ets have found that the public feeH
it would, if it paid the high prices de
manded, establish a precedent that
would mean the same high prices at
Christmas and New Year."
The egg bovcott. he said, has pro
duced less buying, and "in self defense,
the dealers have been obliged to re
duce the price in order to Induce
purchases."
The fact that three thousand more
barrels if potatoes were received this
year thsin last, during the two days
liefore Thanksgiving, and that pota
toes now are selling for $4.rl and S!,,m
a barp'l as against the recent price of
S7.00, Indicates, he said, a recession of
notnto buying by the public and that
the top price has been passed. The
dealer, ne said, "is shoving his pota
FORD'S SUCCESS IS
Repjhhcan A. P. Leased Wire
1.IF.TROIT. Mich.. Nov. 2n. Counsel
for the 1 halve brothers in closing
argument In circuit court today for
an injunction to prevent Henry Ford
from developing the Ford Motor com
pany's business with the profits of
the concern, declared that the Ihdges
and not Ford were responsible for the
company's success.
The attorney traced the history of
the Ford Motor company from Its
irganlzation. Speaking i.f Ford's ef
forts to raise money to organize the
company in l'JOl, he refered to the
manufacturer as "an Inventive genius
or an Invei tive crank." He declared
that It v.ns the mechanical and en
gineering nullity of Horace K. and
John l Dodge, who became associated
with Ford, that guve the company the
liuslm'ss Impetus which brought sue
cess.
The attorney for the Ford company
maintained that the state law which
irovldes that no company may in
corporate for more than S23.Oiln,i00 in
Michigan has not been violated. He
leclared that the law affects only the
capital stock ot a eompanv. The rord
Motor company Is capitalized at
$2,0110,000,
" hen .the legislature said capital
stock, thev meant capital," said op
nosing counsel. "They recognized the
danger that the concentrating of capi
tal in the hand.') of one corporation
or Individuals, means the community."
He declared that the Ford Motor
DODGE BROTHERS SAY
DU 10 THEIR WORK
DIPLOMAT
It was decided, however, that It was
linnecens:irv to t:iW nnfti r-ton ut lliin
uation will be developed.
The allied embassies are deeply con
cerned over the resentment felt by the
Washington government and are tak
ing unusual care to keep their govern-
ments fully informed. It s not known
that they have forwarded any direct
representations to their governments
except insofar as the nature of their
Information is In itself a recommenda-
tion. Nevertheless, officials have every
hone that this informal action bv the
diplomatic representatives of the na-
tlons will go far toward influencing a
change of attitude.
Should the replies prove unfavor
able, the I'nited States might send a
final note notifying the allies to dis
turb the Austrian envoy at their own
risk, or it might be decided to send
an American merchantman or warship
to some neutral ports to receive the
ambassador and bring him across the
Atlantic. As yet, however, such a con
tingency has hardly been contemplated.
toes on, the market lest he be caught
w ith
"It
when
on tils hands.
is significant, that last year
we had a bumptr eroti of tio-
significa nt.
tatoes," snid Mr. Hartigan. "there were
less potatoes shipped here at this time
than this ye .r when there is an a.
leged shot taie."
This year's cranberry receipts here
are also f.,r in excess of last rt-ar'i
ne saiu.
UP OF. 'LIBERTY
Reiublican A. P. Leased Wire
NKW YORK, Nov. 29. New York'3
great "sky scrapers" will be brilliantly
illuminated Saturday night when
President Wilson heads an automobile
pnradu through the downt n section
of the city after he has accepted on
behalf of the nation a new electric
flood-lighting system for the Statuo
f Liberty, provided by funds raised
by popular suliscription by the New
York World.
Preceding the parad.', it was an
nounced tonight. Miss Ruth Iw. who
recently established a new American
record by flying from Chicago to Hor
nell, N. T.. will circle about the presi
dential yacht Mayflowvr in an aero
plane electrically lighted. At the same
time what is said to be the most pow
erful searchlight in the country will
be played on the Mayflower, from the
decks of which the president and his
narty will view the illumination of
tne Liberty statue.
It is planned to flood the cltv with
red, white, blue and golden lights on
the night of the president's visit, a
committee headed by Mayor Mitch-1
stated today. More than luo electrical
ly driven and electrically illuminated
automobile will be used In the Parade
following the ceremonies in New Y'ork
harbor
The president will bo met bv the
mayor and others after which he will
board the Mayflower and proceed to
the Statue of Liberty.
, o
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Nov. :'. Secretary
Daniels awarded contracts today for
more man sua.uuu.otio worth of new
fighting ships for the navy, Including
four battleships at II l.Oort.fliiii each.
two fleet submarines at approximately
Sl.19il.UUU each, und 27 coast subma
rlnes at from S694.000 to Sli'.'S.OOO each.
These vessels comprise the bulk of
the great budding program of (it! craft
01 various types appropriated for by
the last session of congress, l'.ids for
four buttle cruisers will be received De
cemher 6 and for three scout cruisers
on January 3, with the hope of com
pleting the task of getting ull the ships
under contract within the six months'
limit set by congress.
Already th" house naval committee is
at work on the 1H1S bill and early ,:
the spring the department must find
building facilities for at least thi-e
more battleships, one buttle cruiser.
and a proportionate number of other
craft remaining on the three year c.N-
struction program. The bill to be
through this winter for the navy w i I
carry it total of nearly $4t0,OiQ.o'ui.
Secretary Daniels announced that the
contracting companies had agreed to
the department's specifications calling
tor turbo-electric propulsion. It was
this point which delayed the awards.
company has nsscts worth, at
S4UU.UIIU,OI0.
least
PRESIDENT WILL
ITCH LIGHTING
CONTRACTS AWARDED
FOR FIGHTING SHIPS;
HUGE SUM EXPENDED
K1S 511
NEW OFFENSIVE
AS II DIVERSION
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
Although the .Russians, probably as
a diversion, have started and are car
rying on with great Intensity an offen
sive in the Carpathian region around
Kirlibaba, northwest of the Rumanian
border, the advance of the Teutonic al
lies all along the line In Wallachia to
ward the Rumanian capital of Buchar
est apnarently is meeting with little
impediment.
The left flank of the forces of the
central powers have now captured the.
important railroad Junction of Pete
chtf, sixty-five miles north- st of Bu
charest In the center the Rumanians
are reported to be retreating in disor
der, while the right flank, composed of
the army of Field Marshal von Mack-
ensen wnicn crossed tne Lianube. is
carrying out maneuvers in cooperation
wun tne other commanders to the
north.
The 1'etrograd war office in admit
ting a continuation of "he 'rtVeat of
the Rumanians, says von Mac-Kensen's
men operating from Alexandria have
advanced along the Turnpec road to
Kulugurena, the latter town being
twenty miles southwest of Bucharest.
Turkish troops are fighting with the
Germans and Auslrians in this region.
the Russian official communication
asserts that the Russian attack east
and south of Kirlibaba iftis resulted in
the capture in both regions of ridges
and the taking of 700 men prisoners.
The Berlin war office admits that
slight gains were made but says the
Russians suffered heavy casualties.
Apparently little infantry fighting
has taken place on any of the other
fronts. On the lino in France and Bel
gium, there have been artillery duels at
various points and here and tli :
small attacks by raiding parties of l,ot.
tne belligerents. Similar fighting Is
taking place on the Russian front.
The latest German official communi
cation says quiet prevails on the Mac
edonian front, there having been re
sumption of the great battle of the ear
ly week in which both the Teutonic al
lies and the forces of the entente claim
I to have had the advantage.
The Russians admit u further ad
vance by the Turks south of Van in
Turkish Armenia.
The British government heginnire
Decemlier 1 will take control of all the
coal mines in South Wales, apparently
to prevent the wage dispute between
the miners and operators from inter
fering with the coal supply.
Congressmen Will
Investigate High
Cost of Eatables
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON Nov. i. With the
arrival in Washington of members of
congress the subject of general dis
cussion dominant among them is the
high cost of living and the food em
barsro to be urged by Representative
Fitzgerald of New York as a remedv.
The discussion has presented a wide
variety of views, some members be
lieve that an embargo is not tho
remedy for existing conditions and
the subject threatens to lead 10 much
debate in congress. Represeniative
Fitzgerald paid today that he wortid
have the bills ready for introduction
Monday bearing on the proposul em
bargo. Among other house members
who talked of the situation today were
Minority leader Mann, Representative
Borland of Missouri, and Representa
tive McLmore of Texas. Mr. Man 1
said he did not believe an embargo
would be placed on food products and
that it was not a remedy f.ir the ev-,1.
An embargo offered as n retaliatory
measure, in his opinion, diffeted great
ly from embargo to regulate pric-s
and sufficient warrant did not exist
for a retaliatory embargo.
Representative Borland doubted th"
wisdom of an embargo but thought
the soaring prices of food stuffs
could be checked by some form o;'
legislation. Representative ,M -IMrior
was Inclined to. favor the embarg-o.
o
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Nov. 29. Ambassa
dor Gerard conferred With lYesident
Wilson late today, and received final
instructions on views to be presented
to the German government regarding
the deportation, of Belgians and sub
marine warfare.
No written communications have
been given the ambassador hut Mr.
Wilson outlined to him fully the atti
tude of the American government to
ward pending Issues. The president is
understood to have emphasized the un
favorable Imnression created here by
Germany's treatment of the l'clpia '
and to have relierated that ti e I'niteu
State hns said Its last word on
submarine warfare and expected Ger
many to live up to her "ledges. After
spending an hour with the president,
Mr. Gerard left for New York. He
plans to sail for Berlin lecember 1 if
his private business permits. During
the day the ambassador went to the
state department for a final conference
with Secretary Ijinsing and also talked
with Secretary Daniels und other offi
cials. While Mr, Gerard would not dis
cuss the conference for publication he
is said to have informed the president
that Germany undoubtedly ts ready for
peace on terms satisfactory to her.
Whether the ambassador will have a
conference In New York with Col. K.
M. House before leaving for Berlin was
undecided when he left here. .
GERARD ST 0
GERMAN
DFICIALS
