ASHLAI
"Ashland Grows While Uthla Flows
City of Sunshine and flowers
Ashland, Oreyori, Lithia Springs
"Oregon's Famous Spa'
ASHLAND. OREGON THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 1916
NUMBER 55
VOL. XLr
TT TTX IT TV T 1 d
Start Ball Rolling
For Normal in 1918
A- committee hns been appointed
from the- Ashland Commercial Club
which will work In conjunction with
the representatives from this county
and educators of the state in secur
ing a reopening of the Southern Ore
gon normal school at Ashland.
fclvery effort will be centered upon
the placing upon the ballot and the
carrying of a bill reestablishing the
normal lit the election two years
hence. Realization of the fact that
no appropriation could be xpected
from the legislature this year was
made plain by the representatives at
a meeting held with tho committee
last Frllay night. The fact that the
Pendleton normal bill, with Its vastly
greater appropriation and with the
opposition offered by Weston, camo
very near to carrying, and that the
Ashland normal proposition will have
no opposition of the kind, leads to
the belief that the voters of Oregon
are beginning to understand the need
of more normals and with two years
of educational work it Is hoped that
the Ashland normal bill will receive
a substantial majority.
A- meeting of a number of inter
ested Ashlanders was held Friday
night at the Commercial Club to lay
out a plan and start the ball rolling.
W. If. Core and lien Sheldon, who
will represent Jackson county at the
ne:;t session of the legislature, were
over from Medford to exchange views
with workers for the Southern Ore
gon Stato Normal at Ashland. Repre
sentative C. M. Thomas was expected,
but was unable to be present.
Mr. Sheldon and Mr. Core both ad
dressed the meeting Mr. Sheldon go
ing into the situation quite exhaus
tively from every angle. Ho and Mr.
Core both expressed the belief that
Ashland's ultimate chances for the
reopening of the Southern Oregon
normal are excellent and growing
better. IJoth, however, were agreed
that the securing of an appropriation
from tho next legislature Is out of
the question since the tax limitation
bill carried at the recent election.
It was the final conclusion of the
meeting that a' bill presented to the
people two years hence providing
for the establishing of a normal
school in Southern Oregon and an
other in Eastern Oregon will tarry.
Sentiment for the normal schools Is
steadily Increasing. The state board
of regents has declared for two more
state normals. The editors of the
state, fathered here In convention
hist summer, have a broader concep
tion of the isnie than ever before.
Pdueators generally see the need.
Brief speeches were made by Mr.
Eubanl's for the local school board.
Prof. Briucoe as to the attitude of the
faculty, E. J. Kaiser and others. It
was pointed out that the ragents
practically demand that additional
normals be located in cities that pro
vide H'Oil or more school children
for cadet teaching. Jt has been
found tlmt Oregon's one normal at
Monmouth has been hampered by
lack of this facility. Tho local schools
have 1010 pupils to say nothing of
the Belleview, Nell Creek and R-da
Springs schools contiguous to the n
Mini property. The Ashland schools
would glndly cooperate with n iioniial
in the matter of cadot t?peli'!i?r.
Homer Hillings, who acted as rbvr
men of t!-e meeting after President
Frank Jordan of the Commercial Cl'ib
called it to order, was authorised to
appoint an executive committee to
formulate a plan of campaign to be
submitted to the committee as a'
whole and N afterward to our repre
sentatives in tho legislature. The
meeting then adjourned. '
Park Borjd to Lr
- Cfl Entire Force
Tlie ptirk board has laid-off all of
tiio men employed in the city parks,
the order to take ei.-ct Friday, It
is reported that Superintendent
Graves has resigned, his resignation
to take effect the first of the month,
when he will probably return to San
Francisco, where a position awaits
him.
Blair Quarry Ships
Car of Granite
The Blair granite quarry has
shipped a carload of finished granite
to Portland. Mr. Blair has gone to
Portland to attend to the unloading
and shipping of the ear, which Is
loaded down to the limit. :
Lose Robbers -After
Fast Chase
An attempted robbery, a thrilling
chase, sii ootlng and final escape en
livened the usual Tuesday night
quiet of Ashland. Pat.olman Car
penter In making his usual rounds
found the back door of Simpson's
hardwaro store opened, the burglars I ell has -finally got tho city tax down j idea in view of the fact that hiring
having removed an iron panel and (to 22.3 mills, which is absolutely asja man by tho day would cost $5.00
bored through tho inner door. The! low as It can be figured. Of this ( every time they needed him for tho
burglars must have just effected en- 'amount 13.3 is devoted to the er-j
trance Carpenter entered andipenses of tho city, a big cut from,
searched the building with his flash
light but saw no one. Ho turned on
the night light and started to phono
to Simpson's house. Just as he had
Glen Simpson on the line he heard
Ithe front door click. A robber had
turned the Yale lock and jerked the
door open. He was out in a flash
! and another followed. They had
I been crouching behind the counter.
: Carpenter had dropped the phone j cut to 2 mills from 4.7 mills, in the The delinquent light payment was
iand pulled his gun. A command to j police department which was pruned j carrlf (1 over finally, effecting a big
I halt failed to slow up the fleeing! one man by the simple expedient of !c,lt- A" ltpm of W or legal ex
'men, and fearing to shoot Into the reducing the money for next year j lon8,'s W;'S cut,
ctreet thn n.itrolman eave chase, hv JflfiO. Tho library denartment $18,117..""
Tl,o mon tn;liPil (town the alev next
'to the Ashland hotel. Calling to Pa -
trolman Wlmer, who had just start-
ed from tho police office on his I added for sewer purposes, .05 for jon the fash on hand had been made, ; nmor strict clauses which would pro
rounds in the other direction, Car- j publicity, band and Chautauqua, .fi5jwns 7 :i""3 raising $1 R.l 47.57. j tect tho c ty in every way. He sug
penter went down Water, street and ! for springs commission, 2 mills to Library Budget ' gested that the contracts be made
W'nier down Oak. Wimer saw two ! hon'ds and interest 'which was not T1"' library budget which called jn n,p form of a tentative option
other men, who hnd probably been !
posted in front of the store, follow.
the first two. !
!
When Wlmer got into Oak, two General fund i. ; ." , ci a the river above Gold Hill, the organ
men were hurrying along In front of , Interest and bonds 9. ,e;Ti unon work W s,arted i,ll,n slxt' izers of the district claiming that wa-
the armory. They ran at sight of, Fire department 1 "2 I ' ,!i I . 1 nit nil 1 ,'i . , . n , ; day8' T.' Contr"ct WOuU1 "r0,PCt!ter In any amount desired Is avail-
him and he" gave chase. They turned
I down the railroad and into the brush
land ho followed. When he was down ,
'the track a short distance the other
It wo broke cover from near the Fruit!
! Association building and dashed
i across the track down Oak. Wlmer
i fired three shots, after calling on
;them to halt, but they disappeared
into the ihadow. Glen Simpson ar-
rived at the store shortly after Car -
,..,.- Wl It TI,o T-r,l.l,oro trni a
.dollar In change from the cash regis-
ter. .
t
EndersvIlIe'Hov
Busy 0nTFrame-Up
H. C. Eiulers ind his political eo -
jrts have boon rxceedl-igly busy of
horts have boon rxceedl-igly busy of
Ir.te. It Is said that they are fram-
Ing up to control tho politics of Ash-
land In'tho comin-T election. It is
Mated th.it Kndors' linkup is nnnta
or T.mi'iin for mayor, Stone for conn -
cil from the Flnt ward, iv-uis for
rouneil f-om tlie fjeond and W. W.
Caldwell for council from tli? Third,
The last rumor h; to the effect th.ft
th" fact (hat bo!h Banta and Larakln
are l-no.n to bo Kndors' political
henchme'.i. it may prove expedient to
relent a candidate for mayor who is ; had goju, nnd finally cut it out. j rjpp t0 roni,iJi the council passed protection for spectators in case .of lv t!,,t,.,-n,jm ,1 k by a t borough in
net s.i r.upinely clos" to the great po- j Li-Jil String'-is. th two-mllllax which Is all they nr rain. The locals have noiliiir; to say ; A i;,a( iM1 jir t-er onrts that
lit jivrcl:ant. self-constituted boss
r-nd docs not Favor so strongly of li'a
noxious pcfitical odor.
It is ,-tated that in ca? Mayer
Johnron decided to make another taMo an.i n rer;uest ror a levy ior
t-y. Btnta v.ill be bin opponent. , If the baud of one mill was also du
nno'.her citiron not. subservient, to I'erreil.
rnde-s er'.ers th f'eld. Lr.mkin will
lie put in tho raci against him on tlte
re'-n'L.,h:,t T.nmki-i can cont-ol th
c'lucli vote; but. if Greer becomes a
candijlHt'! it will be neee?ary to s"
l'-'.i a c.l;iil:d.:te apparently entirely
apa'-t ' from the En dors machine in
order to defeat Greer. Reed has
been looked npnn by the Enders fac
tion, it is said, as a likely oppone'it I
If Ci-ner niTis but tlie fact that he'ent :hmi, mtts einorcug me cur-:
'ins 1,en once defeated by Greer and tailnn tit tf the force next. year. The , ,H,, iNend.Mit for its upkeep at $1,100. .winter with her uncle, S. V. Johnson.
! is known to b.1 fairly tied in with the council did this with thd view of try- a year and a half mill would allow "
.' Enders faction lm may bo side-1 '''r ",!t Mayor Johnsons cil hen po-.$l50 for po.sil.lo breakage and re- "ill be '.d for band and the mim
i ! - . . ... ...... - ii ,.,,Mt t. ., 1 ,1 r,i u- i,i-iijpi iiieliiilintr
("clicd for a hoi'. or vote getter. ;
i However true, these proenoat lea- i
thins mav prove tlie fact remains '
that Enders, by hook or crook, will
To doubt make an effort to control
tlie politic;! of Ashland. On with tha
music. We shall see what we shall
Since this was written Mr. Lamkin
has filed for mayor.
Free Dinner At
F?Kt!fln Wall nev's salary was an extravagance but 1
iUUJJHM ftill1iat nfter h)a yoar he b0evud the !
'
A free dinner will be served at the i
Mission hall Thanksgiving day from
12 until 1 o'clock. All donations,
such as cooked potatoes and all other
kinds of vegetables, cakes, cookies,
doughnuts, pickles and fruit, will be
very gratefully accepted.
Please write your name on all
dlshea sent to Mission hall, which is
located Just below Loom Is ft Kelson's
grocery on Fourth street.
Council Trims 1917 Tax Budget
Down To Total Of 22.3 Mills
After cutting and slashing every
fund from tho totals published in
the tentativo budget and working
until 12:30 Monday night and all
morning this morning tho city coun -
the original estimate and 1.7 under ments so convincing that Councll
the limit allowed by the law. man Nininger stated' that although
Tho big cuts were made by carry-! he had seconded Mr. Banta's motion
Ing over delinquent debts owed by! he would be forced to vote against
one department to another. These.it- The salary was left as at pres
will be handled by the various de
partment' borrowing money from
the water department sinking fund.
The other big cuts were made in the
I nark commission budget which was
; mf forml tho Inn of 2 mills, fire de -
' partment .3 mills, street .5 mills.
While a' small tax of .01 mill was
figured currertly in tho first place,
The budget now stands.
mills
. . . ?
2.
, Parks
Street
Library
Sewer
Pub. Chat, and band
, Springs commission o
Total 22.3!
The original estimate was 24.S .
mills.
! The county tax islG mills
SrllOOl tU D mills.
Budget Meet
I The tax budget meting at the city
'hall Monday night was atended by
who made frer
about "5 taxpayers,
jcjuent suggestions and asked for in
' formation fr.ely. But few sugges
tions lo: huge cut were made, tho
'only big one being regarding the
1 carrying ever of a delinquent street;
lighting bill fcr $5057.,0 to next
S"i...B " l" lreeuue of $23 cash, a cut of .5 mill
yr. This was from last year and; mado A ovls(m of f().
"'as not paid because of an under wi(a;ijn; ()f ,hp (Wlm cormr
-stima-e by the council and a re-, a!owr( Mf Ro(,hn ma(o (1)
. Auction tf asossibl. valuation. 'mi,Cl,s(Io!, t,,a. hirln!J n a I
1 ?:iice tlu light department was , ,ni of $ 1 7 s . G 2 for feeding tho city'
' defined 1.'s'v able to bear that bur- ,tcam P0;,j i, ,aie, l,ut owing to
den at the time it was not paid. The !t0 .-. tl.)t tl(l cjt, toam ls lS(,(
council donated tho matter and
asked for a straw vote and although
. the vote favored carrying it over,,
the council decidvd to pay it only to
' change air most of the spectators
; Trior to taking up tho budget in
regular enlcf a request for a levy
: for th? buying of street light string -
ers for celebrations was laid on tho
(Jenerel Ihmd
The v.ficius salaries in the general
fund i'liig fixed by ordinance cr
by the ne::t council, were passed over
without iTnment although the re-,
corder.'s office h-dp salavks renuircd ' fi"i lax allowed for plant upie -ep
-xpl.r.iati.ii to sonic who did not urn jwi; i'be.oiu.'ey neodtd. '.Mr. Gn u' r-.ii-ritand
how they were paid. ; y,u d Hint while the plant, could In
Police Department ikipt np for possibly a lin'f mill ow
The police department' fund was j nir to. tho fact that the springs roni-
i'e iit'-' i. , i
" C forC(1 re-'U used to advantage In earing for
1,,r,ion 1:1 ,ft0 in I1olice nniL the iountalns and assisting in the
aiiT a eti'itni onus ' iv ih nn; iv maul',
..i ... . j., . i, i i
The council talked over cutting ;
out their own salaries but finally I
foil ml nut 111 m ihov vi.ro ttenA liv '.
1 i ,. . .
the charter and could not be cut out.
,, ...
City Attorney
The city attorney's salary was not
cut. MK Nlnlnsor Btated that nrlorfl.epn nald for n eortaln leneth of
to his coming onto tho council ho
had always believed that the attor-
city had got more than Its money's
WOrth. '
Recorder Gillette stated that hard-
hy a day passed that he did not con
sult the- attorney about something
and always found him willing to
give up his own work for the city's
work. On an Inquiry from Mr. En
ders it developed that in' the past
two years but $100 had been paid
for work outslds tht city,, this being
tha only extra In the attorney JUne.
City Engineer
Mr. Banta wanted the city en
glneer's salary reduced but after i
Councilman Hoot, who, being a civil
; engineer himself, had ridiculed the
smallest job, the reduction would be
a costly one. Others made argu-1
ent.
Minor Matters
All the minor expenses were deem
ed necessary and no tenable objec-
tions could be fodnd to any of them.
i The final general fund amount du-i
jclued '!'on Wednesday morning after
j further cuts by figurlngmore closely j
j or l-1 m'"!) was considered an item i -which would become an option upon!
I at a tim-and Librarian Hicks called ' the completion of the sanitarium
: unon ''ucntly for explanations. ltiWMch iu ie opnIol, of tho council j
i was uawrl ;-s it stood lint after the1 . j .. i. . I
.had s-a'-l that they could get along .
iLVn , i m" . . i l"" " " wntPr
j" 'T " " ! iWhlch the clly co,1,d do,late as a ho'
ljf T1 e '' , Pd,,ctl0n m ha': mw was the surplus sulphur water
5 j he mcde .n the number of new tor hatMng and a t!in 0, lhe mh!a
i nil i iii ill on rna npi nr nni ir
-
The fire department budget wast0 Messra, Do(lgc pnd Mm,lliy, .
Psse(1 whout chance Monday night The maU(,r g (enK conH,,,erei, ,,y
iuul ,6U"": , 7
ion hand a cut of .3 mill was of -
fected Wednesday morning. Thai
jn,y f'"1 diBCUS8(,f wn" t,,at of 23
r (,0rs and develope. that
!thA lnii-pr floor of tlip firo 4t:itloll
i : ... . ,
i l0,a,,jr wlt.1,0"t. "!;"t an,d
doors were needed to save electric
I current and relieve the jail like at
mosphere. Street Department
fly carrying over $ln0 owed by '
' y
( . f
imcnt and possible
every day in the year thb
was deem-
; tlJ iliadvj!.i(i,1(,
1 p;lrk.
f0ntravy to the general epeca-
'ti(m that the park budget would give
allowed to levy, almost without, coip-
i,1;.it and without any argument
' arising. Tho. council and most, of
the spectators relied, that the;
amount we.'j insulTieii t and, iu fact.
Hi ' p-irk c!ti"iii.'don ill' a tentative
bud ('t lVid to come wiMiin He- to
m: : is na'l made no pjans mr lu'in
; or uatoring the park or for payment
. 0f paving assessment.
'ineial Water Plant I'pkeep.
I
;,-, Tlanta asked Ms. Greer if ih1
nt ssi'Oi nail a contract villi me sit
pairs, no ocuevcu tno mil nun count
, . . , . . , ,
n-ni a in 1,11 i iriLV wors or n ri
not near enough could bo granted
inul a- the law. Mr. Enders asked
I II 11. no tin i ha Ii :i Mi- Villi i
... . , , .1,
Weircn wis paid $3 a dav auto hire
, ,, ' , ,,
In addition to his salary, ami Mr.
ai - eer explained that the S3 he had
tinto when he-was hauling sand for .
tho pipe line and had been paid out
of the Smith-Emery money which the,
sprint commise)n used to finish up
the pipe line ft satisfactory shapo
after tho compr.fV finished. Mr. Jor- j
dan appealed to the council not to
make tho mistake of not allowing
enough, as breakdowns might occur
which would need monoy to fix, The
council1 passed a levy of .5 mill.
' Publicity.
A levy of .6 for publicity, Chau
tauqua and ban was made. This
will raise ii,Z9.io, of wmcn sauu
goes to tho Chautiuqua' and the rest.be flgure'd.-'
Surplus Water May
Be Used as Bait
B. R. Creer appeared before the
city council following the budget
meeting Monday night and outlined
a plan for attracting tho investors
who are known to be contemplating
a sanitarium investment here, ask-
ing that the council gave an Informal
expression of their approval. The
council did not take definite action
lowing to the lateness of the hour,
but have the matter under consider
tlon and will meet this week again
to consider it.
Mr. Greer stated that while of
course the outcome of tho recent
election leleased the capitalists from
their promise regarding a sanitari
um, he believed they could yet ho
induced to matte the $50,000 Invest
ment here by offer of the mineral
waters. He made It plain that there
was just a chance of gottlng them
but that he considered It well worth
trying. He stated that arrangements
had been made with Messrs. Dodge
end Murphy for a tentative nronosl-
tlnn for their waters mid nskpil Hint
j the cUy have their attorney draw
up a contract offering their waters
thp clty in every -possible way. . Mr.
i .
"u soua ior umumub. ine surplus
mnia ana soua ior oaining neiongi
the council, the majority of whomi,ng nhead with preliminary surveys
1 . .. .,. , , . .
irrtll.r Llltil lilt nillMUB n.uri in ui
. ' no use to the city except as a halt to
j induce a sanitarium investment, and
who reRM Ulflt tnfi FQyM
.
be so arranged as to absolutely pro-
'tect the city's fountains and Interests
In every way. Tho consensus of J
: opinion seemed to lie (hat there
iciulil ln no tiossilile liiirm in offer-'
i ing the water with hop. of the bait
proving -ttraetivo enough to b-ing a
$50 non institution to Ashland.
On Shoulders
Or On Stretchers
The football game for the south-
eron Or.'on rhumpionship will he
played at the Medford ball park to-
' morrow
fternoon. The grounds are
said to lie in fine shape, and covered
grandsla.td and bi-acliers will aflord
regarding their chancs. but have
, refused to secure "dull a" for the
Klks' ball, and fr.,m all indiealh.iis
intend to be carried off the t'U
Miller on the shoulders or tin .r sup
portei-H as winners or In stretchers,
'i'iie AMiIand band is gel"g down and
Medford will have th I"
.baud, out.
The entire local .-I udent body will
attend and probably sevr;:l hnndt Ml
tov nsiieo;)le. Pelting oil Is n main
at two to one on Medford with little
.,1:1..,. J m.;,i, y in light.
M:s Carol V. Mitchell of Port
land, win ha:v been rpenilsg a few
mon! !a in Arhlt-niL has rone to
(Milh I'a'dena, Cul., to 'ipetid tho
r. .
rep'tirat tons wnn which iae euj in,
asked to assist. One or tv.o citizens'
. .
....... n 1 -i i; or no- n ;i r'r ' 11 I I V V V
,-, r,-- , . -
"'il Air. Vtnlers urge'd a .5 mill levy
for tho band alono.
Sower.
1,,,.,. ( 1 iniil wa'i mado to nro-
A bn or .1 nun ui.hhi 10 no
,11,,., nine over Sn00 fo-ewer this
ule .1 nan out .n m. au,mn
amount Having neen nieg.my n .
from tho general fund In the past.
lii(ii-cst iuul honds.
The largest single fund, , the In-:
terest and bonds fund, calls for
mills, and as Is absolutely nec,
9 1
I
necea-
sary that these 1m mot, it was passed
without argumont.
The assessed valuation of Ashland
Is $J,dl8,8iu.
The estimated corporation tax Is
$278,200, making a total estimate ot
taxable property of $2,692,510.
One mill on this will raise 12,
692.50. From this basis the amounts need
ed1 for the various departments can
One District Forms
And Another Hay
At a meeting of the county court.
Monday the order calling an election
for the creation of the high line Ir
rigation district December 27 wa8
signed by Judge Tou Velle and Com
missioner Leever,
Directors for the district were
named as follows, to be voted for:;
For division No. 1, James Owens; for,
division No. 2, Ieonard Carpenter;:
for division No. 3, Wm. Budge; for,
division No. 4, J. A. Perry; for di
vision No. 5, George B. Dean. W. H.
Gore was named as treasurer of the
district.
Polling places were designated as
follows: Dr. Plckel's ranch, north of
Medford on Eagle Point road, fop
district 1; W. II. Brown's residence
Roosevelt avenue, for district 2; resi
dence of W. H. Hammond, Orchard
Home tract, for district No. 3; Oak
Grove school house, district 4; West
Side school house, district 5.
On account of protests filed by
Messrs. Birdeye, Long and others,
action on the creation of the River
side Colony irlgntion district wad
postponed pending investigation.
The final hearing will be held Fri
day. The land coming tinder the propos
ed district comprises about 1200
acres lying along Itoguo river, below
tho town of Gold Hill. Water for the
I propose;! (iisiiici iui im uiiveu nuni
aldo. Tho cost will be $:!5 per aero,
! with a maintenance chare which it la
! thought will not-exceed f.O cents per
I
A d of
-
, Go(1 uni ,)7 C(,t of ,he ,.,
, , ,n .., .
of ,
Thp AHhlan(,.XR,(nf aMrM ,8 R0.
f.nU plans.
Reed For Springs
I WtCr COmmiSSSOHer
Mr. Or-or will not be a candidate
f"'1 "l-rlug" at,.r conuuission.r In
In eon.lt". cty d.c.ion. In view ot
! fart ih.-.f Mr. H.-ort. b, liis cam-
Lpalgn a-;:;'nst Mr. tJrepr In tho recall
election, staled that he was. anviciH
;lo hives. hat- the wli-. springs wa
iter deal and would uive his finding
to the nubile, if Mr. LV'-d will :igi-;
to do that new ?'r. Greer will sup-
! port him f-ir tho place. There havo
,cn a ,,t of ch:ir?-s made by Mr.
l'hidei-s 'inii his In "ehnn v aga.ln-a tlm
inti-iM-ity anil .Intent of Mr. Greer iii
Uh) HI!r!-s niaiter, every one ot
vhieii wi:s and absolulely false.
The only way the matter can be fair-
invest iir.ii icn, and io Ihat end will
.-iilport Mr. Peed for si, rings filter
ctiiii'iilsd-mer ii' he , will ai'i'eo to
,,.,). ,no inve-ll'-ition and five U'9
r . . i s without res n ve to th,i pulv
i !c .() ,,,,,, ,( yr ,. :itiioii3
in ,-,,.:( i;;:n ion, and as ho
failed to cor. viel. Mr. Gru-r in tho
r,.,.nU election, witho.it ie ' est i",:tt ion,
, ;i,nu(i , nylons, now that thu
opporlunity is offer.-d. to gl.-o Mr.
, (;;.t, ,,r tiK. iieneiit of a fai.- trial wifh-
i at. prejudice. Tli'Tt ft re, wo thi.i'C
"'i-. ;, -ed should miko the race, whit
that unei rstamlit'g, ami if he does,
the Tidings w ill Mitnport It I m .
Fcrsnsr Locd
Teacher Killed
V'.ts F'hel Rlg.lon, formerly prpt-
,u,, it of lllrt M:,lwl litli ar.li,nl ni.l
1 M'"1 " : ' v ...
who' left here In 1ill for !en
; where she has since been .the head
lot the English department at tho
Sa em high schoo-, d.ed Mondav
. .
morning from the result of Injurba
.
" .
automobile while crossing n street Pi
.balem. according to word received
In this city, Miss Rigdon started
across the street at a corner In thu
. . ,
company oi a. u. uiancy or roruanu
and was run Into by an automobile
driven by Asa Tlcdall, who since her
death has been arrested on a charga
of manslaughter. Miss Rigdon suf
fered a fractured skull end did not
regain consciousness, dying three
hours later at a Salem hospital.
Miss Rigdon has many friends fu
this city who will be shocked to learn .
of her death. Her parents reside In
National CUy, Cal. She has a broth
er and three sistors In Salem.
