BURLINGTON, VERMONT, THURSDAY, NOVEMBER HO, 1916.
NUMBER 22.
1. XC. NRW S R KS VOL LA1U.
TIN
E
NVOY
'S
ASEJAKEN UP
Requests Allies to Rccon-
ov MnCi: in (Vwo Silfo
1 tUIOCIV l MIIIIWHUIIII
FAVORS ARE ASKED.
mil (n pritmriif I rKH "i tint iirp-
THANKSGIVING AT
THE WHITE HOUSE
President and Mrs. Wilson Will
Have for Dinner One of
Several Large Gift
Turkeys.
WIlMMl
cabinet ,
1L'
. X' W I'd
I 111. I I 11. l'M fc.'. tin- nil'"
lins rnt t i - In (ileal Hritutn
raiii'f. it neninc l.lu.wn ui-nny, it-
rt ci n. eh ration ul their rdii-ui
li c nduct tltriiii:!i tin ir
-1 1 unt-'ui i ambassador in this
, imil spi ,ik P., df tin' nnP. minute
I ul u iMiilii'ti' 1 rdusal would have
Mini, In re
in li s petal l iliut it i.- un In-
hit r'l-lil r.f snvorelKii nit t miin in;
i. I 1... .... th.il I II.. III..
kl unions nn i - iiini mi-i.-i
II Million, ' ii ." - I 1 1 IIHtl
.mi. ..I i.. .1, in in. it. ill tlelit
aunt.. U'l.lfe
L liiri IS l.ll' ii i iiiiciu .ii- i'.-
.n li n'l ii
WiishlnRton, N'nv. S!.- Piei!e:i'
imil nearly nil Hie mcmbcr.i ul ii."
will spend TlmnkKKlvliiK day in Waahum
l"ii with their fiiiiitllf m. In tlif tnornlnu
the I'lesldont and Mrs, Wllsnn v. HI U'
I" church mid In thu evening Ot-v will
attend :i relief Imil tit the null I n HI n
navy yard. 'I ho Wlillo House family
will have for dinner one (if He several
Mk turkeys wnt fur the mcaslnn !
Irlpiids In different pat in of tlio muti
ny Many government officials, diplomat
and members n' OmgroMS will attend the
annual Pan-American limns and luncheon
at Si. Patrick's Catholic C'liur. h. Tim
I President will j-n to -,s u.-. n diunii, m
i thai of Mrs. Wilson.
All jsov orriniont depart men's ebwd ul
tionn to-dny and will not tcuiicn fni busl-ne-s
until Friday niornltiv
HAPPENINGS
N VERMONT
Local Kerns of Interest from
All Paris or Ihe Green
Mountain Slate.
THE NEWS IJY COUNTIES.
'rem Mir l-lnnil In I lie l.nl.o n Ihe
I'risituiiic, Mime: Offer CroeK mill
hr (lie Mnire nf Itlfo ltlvcr.
MDISflH COUNT'
MIDDLEIJURY.
MRS. M..I. DAVIS DIES.
tnii nil h i-ii n
ai rif. i i an u u
I i I 1 " (! i- ,i
l r a hi l
r
., mounds "f inter--anslud
from un re
. iiiukluK II char
i - i.s nol asking a
ihe aliunde of a
i ' nut to put Ihe p'V-
,,t ,i i, , t , n oi iinvniK enmiK-o
i u i t'n last cninnHiiiieulinn
which Mat nioiely the
ii.i Austrian Kovern-
i i . f r a sale conduct. It
It tj t 111'. I V ll' II the relltllf WilS
I or l Ihe position of bdnK a
' s'
iin ti ei
i r
li i
1
u tri.i. and make a mr
i. tie mime of the I "tilted
. r' i
i
i h.iwver. that it wns
ink -udi action at this
int- latimiH. w hen il is
ri lati nieiit of the j.'1 n
i" in -national law ill the
r i iiMdetntioti hy Urn
1 i hi note tninttf with
,i in i-i -ponce, it is adinit-
, i it nation will he dt -
j i I i r i , ns are ilreply con-
i , r il ri iilmenl fell liy H
, i i n un nt. and are Inkm-'
i . p llieir Boverntni m
r i the Anierienn imlF
w oi.' lo un' tai l loin
uf l.leMl(ielv ("itiiiiiilHlnMer
llrnke lliii I Ie i'rs lun.
Klvet .liiiu'tloiV, Nov .".I -.Mm
I. llavls, wlin would liai hepn
mi earn of ace on .lanualA I, dlod IhiH
aflernoon at the linnie of her son, !'. I.
I avis, livestock eoiiunlsslonei fur Ver
mont, uhete she had made hei home Ui
lust feu year.s.
Mrs. Davis, who was the widow of
RuiihiMl Dais, whoc death ei inreil ;T
wars awn, and the sister of Ihe lale .Indue
(Miarles II. Maxhani. of win 1mm iount,
fell and hroke her hip llc ears lik'n and
never leeovered. She leaves Iwn daUKli
ters and three sons, Mahel. wife of Dr.
lleorKe N. Davis of Maneliester, N 11 ,
Miss Minnie Davis, who has taken entile
earn of her mother for the past Ihe ears,
Waltur Davis, ilniSKlst or ("oiienrd, N. II ,
Sidney .1. Davis, font rnetor and builder
In MlnneapiiMs, and K 1, Dais of thn
pl.iee. She also leaves a sister in t'hl-
'I 'li' ele-MHellle'il nf Ml..l M'lrlllU
'.T'lerns of Mrini;i', N .) , lo I'erelvnl
, Wilds, un ,1 Mi '.'il, CI. ul, -s M. Wilds,
hits he' n .i!'ii"iiin i (I Mr Wilo-i is an
Httotm III Ve rk i i , a
hhe li'-m of Kali I i Wild,
istri'l The date fur the viddinif liu.1
not lieen II.M'd. Mr Wilds is a tmidUKti
.lolin fiears, who Is a patient at that In
stitution and wlio Ik slowly I eeoVet Inn -I!
Huston has opined an employment
olTUe.- Miss Dmothy Meyer has coin lo
lioston to spend a week Willi her parents.
-The Mls-es Iteno I. AdaniH mid
Dorothea and Louise lie.Miolds have rimio
to lltilland (o spend TlianksKlvlnit at
their homes. Hnllln Iller, who lias heen
spandltiK two weeks In Inwn, lias noun
to New I I:i oil and expects lo pass Iho
winter In that town. I,. D. Havens has
line to Chester to visit relatives anil
friends for n week. Joseph Calhoun lias
Rone to Albany. N. Y.-Mts. Karl Ijttn
has fjone In llurllilftton. where she Is visit
ing in the home of Mrs. Henry Xlore.y. -Mis.
T. I'. lirennati and .sonnir son have
annc lo Holland to visit her parents, Mr. !
and Mts. T. '". Halpln Me. and Mrs.)
John l.oveU of .North 1'le.isant street
w to Klven a surprise Par';, at their homo
Monday evi ninK. ('aids were played, fol
lowed by refreshments. .Mr. and Mrs.
1iVett will soon move to Ilutland, whole
he has a isitlou. Irving l'ates has Bono
lo Hrlstol. CoriA.. where he lias a position
as foi email in a laundry. Mr. and Mrs.
C. S. Tylar have pone to Itandolph.
where liny vill visit relatives and
friends for a fo.v days.-C. r. liieh has
re.lntnid Imp i UurlhiEtnn, wliere Im was
li.illed by Ihe !lltieus of his aunt, Mrs.
I('!a:.i 1 Drown of Itrandon. who is a
I pntleni ai tlm Mary Kleloher hospital, ai i ll((titlnK
whli b inslilu'ion she undirwent an opera
I Hon Monda.. Chniles ralnii r has le
I turned from tiiirllnutnn. where he wen'
I sevral davs ntfo to take bis daughter,
WARSHIPS
COSTING SB
510,000
Secretary Daniels Awards Con
tracts for Building .'51 Eight
in!r Craft.
BATTLESHIPS ON LIST.
Will Cost 311,0(10,000 Knoll To I'lrrt
MibiiinrliiiN mid Turn 1 5 -Sven
Cunii Mitiuiarliies In (lie
Order.
THREW HERSELF BEFORE TRAIN
Mlsi llnhel nllirivn, Who llml Com
pltilncil of fains In Head, Mi els
Jlorrlble DenHi.
1 27
uth IlvrRato, -1 nin-.vin" hor-
in front of the weal-bound -Mont- j
r & Wells Itlvcr train at six o'clock
morning. Mis.-i Mabel Nutbrnv.ii,
TEUTONS ADVANCE
T
mm
us
r mber nf i roily, to the Mary lneteber bospllir tor
1 Iteetor ', ti-ealment for a swelllim of the fine
Miss .nla I'lerie, who Is teaebl' ' selmo'
in Kndbury, is iipctnlliiK li'i Thao! .-,'.i Inir
day Miration at her home here. -Mr. nnl
Mrs. lVi'tcr K'linf of ttutlnnd, former resi
dents of this town, nre hern to. spend
The cold weather and dei p I several days.-Frank A. Darker, who has
the mountains are kieplni; the been in town this week on li-n.il business.
of Mldilkhuiy ('olb'Ke In the elas
I and wati elected a liuslee last
iVeiy few di 1 1 ate lien killed
i section
'snow on
i "f 11102
year.
In
this I
, hunters at home. The Kssay dull will
'tneel al the home ot Mts. D. 1.. ltobinson
Tuesday aft' rnnon, December I-', at :!:"n
p in. The llev. lieoi'Ke H llsley and
Miss (ieitruile I, llsley of Westbiook,
i Me. ale vWllmj,' Col. and Mrs. S. A.
i llsley al The Alldison.--Wlllinin I'. Uus
Isell Post, No. vi, (J A. I!., and Dm l.adlei.'
ii'lrele. No met in their rnoni'.
jln ibe Dyer block Tuesday evenliiK Mr.
and Mrs John AV. Stokes of Spi InKlleld,
'.Mass., are visitlm; in Mlddlebiity and
loiher towns in tin i ounly Harold Hay-
lias i canned to Whiting.
VERGENNES.
The Vcruenncs C.un dub held Its an
nual ThiinksKhlinr slmot I'riday, about .0
' members particlii.itlnK Dr. V. . at
ieiniaii was winner In the regular aliotKun
'shout and llarrv M. Norton In Ihe handl
leap. In eai h escnt the prize was a
pound tutkey. The lllle shoot was posi-
I tinned until Tiiusdav afternoon
Musi of Mrs. D.-.viv-w i,f, v
Nerwiih. rfillll' u' I, ere a fe '
l l,e f liner. it i e-i . 1 i
I I'l Ki ni.i af li rnoi n
pent in
i auo
be
Attorney
Allen It. Stlll-ti'VHIlt of M lll'l lelllir.V Was
4ieie Stiturdin on business. Jacob and
waul of Mlddlebiiry College unit Katur- 111. Miller of HurlhiKtnn 1-ited friends
day In Ciittincsvllle and eoniliicted s'fv-!ieic Satnrdav -Henjnmiii I'. H.iiley ivi
lees 111 tile Methodist chutcli in Hint place I lentlj slaui-'btered a two-year-old ho;;
Sunduj . The lederateil fair ciuduitid by! that tipped the scales at Upi I-! pounds and
tin ladles of the so vi nil churches in Ibis , vlelded i, pniipds of lard. Mr:. Ida Doteu
Washington. Nov 20. Scrrctn.ry
Daniels nwiirled contracts to-day for
more than IMi.iino.nOM worth of new
Hlilis for the mn;, Iniludlns
four battleships, at 1 1.OOO.nOO each,
two licet BUbmarln"H at aPproxlmatle
?l.1!ia.nno each, and 27 coast subma
rines at from SCVI.fipu to anil each.
These vessels comprise the hil'l; of
the ure.nt btilldlim procr.ini of sixty
l craft of var'ous l pes appi opriated
for by the last Cutmress Mills for
four battle criliseis will he rci eived
December fi iieM. and for tlltce scout
cruisers on January I!, with the hope
of compli'tltux the task of tfcttlnir all
the ships under contract within the
six months' limit set by Coniriess
Already the House, naval commitiee Is
at work on the litis hill and calls in Hie
spit'iK the ileiartinent must liud liiilldlnti
facilities foi at least tluce mote battle,
ships, one baltle cruiser and a propor
tionate number of other craft i enislniiui
on the lhree- oar construction pi"'i iini
The bill to be put thfoiiK'u tills wlnler for
the na will tarry a total of nearly iti""1,
nfo.fn n
I Contracts foi two baltlpsliips each were
awarded to-dav tn the Now Vork Ship
IliuihlluK company and Ihe Newport News
' shlpbiilldliiK and Dry Dock inmpanx.
I company.
I Three of I lie new submarines will b"
ft
fell
pel
tills
ilau,:btcr of Mr. and Mrs. William Nut-
brown of tlila place, wan In'-.tuntly killed,
In r body bolng found v.hrn dnyliKht .
cai.ie. Kor two or three W"oV:s Un; yoiiiu' !
woman bad complained of pains in nc
lira,'!, and so It Is hellevid llml 11! tiuilth
was tlio cause of her suicide.
The body was found mar a crorslns In
this vlllaKc, and on a Um nearby lay
her co.it anil tin! , the latter evld'tico In
dicatliiK beyond dojbt thai it was a cum'
of self-destruction. Hecnuse nf the dark
ness, Ihe tralnnn.li did not know what
had occurrod.
Miss Nutbrown v as .10 your." of art"
end for sorro time .mis employed in the
lutnlly of JtlilK.' XicIioIr ill St. John."
bury. Itccently sbc uaine lo .S.nilli l!ye
irato lo esalal hor parents In the main
tenance of n boarillliK house. Hut-ides In r
p-iritit!', sh" lravcr. one sinter , Mrs.
'.in..! flute, v.-bn llvis on a fnnn In
ibis vicli'lly Thu fainlb came lt.ro fn.ni !
Cuunda
Both I'laivlcs of Gorman Army
Closing In Roumanians
Fleeing in Disorder.
RUSSLVNS START ATTACK.
t-'etoe of ..etiop, !loiTror. Im Outside
Kouiiianlati llonlrr ami ti lril
I'.hly .11 c ii it( fii- Illiertlon.
I Harrc. Nov. 2tl Wlun the Croon Motm
tlnln exprofa pulled Into Darru this nmrr.
I line at oiKht o'clock Hie trainmen worn
I asked concerning the k'llim; of Miss Nut
brown at South ItyoRiito. They km w
Imitliinir of ihe occurrence and wore at
illrst Inclined to doubt the truth oT Him
.report thai their train had kilhd tier,
'althoiiKh Ihey said It was so dark when i
ithe train went through hoimi uyiwii"
I Hint It would have 1 n Impossilile to
Isie anybody lyln on the track. The
jetiKine and car wheels showed no sIkim
I of blood.
PASTOR RUSSELL LEFT
ESTATE OP ONLY .S200
.i i
rti
'I ri w
Hi rdlll
l '111
UIM
' I
I .-'
scliodulod to s.id
ii Ihe Duti li Mi ana r
Ml Deci mli r Hi
prove unfavirablf .
(.-lit M ini a hunt note
. s lo di.-turli Hie
tlicr own n.-k, or it
to m nd an Ami rican
i. ncuttal port to re
nt i ia nl. r and brini? mm
the 'i i it c As yol, hnwovor,
i nti my hail hardly boon con-
' n mi- of Ihi confident belief
iii i i s wm yield.
CONTRIBUTIONS FOR
STi
li is fit. bv tin California .ShilibutlrliliLr rom-
Mllaue will lie bold ill the town ball of ISurllnKtoii is vlsltlni-" frli nils hole.- ,,UMy ..f Hnnx Hcadi, Cal., is const and
Thursday, December 7. The lb v. li. M Miss Mary MeCadden and niece, Mrs. T. ,, s.-.i'-ton licet submersilile went in Hie
Is' m ol Hiitl-ind, district superintendent j M Murray, who have been lsltin Mr I j-eclrlc llnat company of Now York and
the ISiuhiicton district of the Troy land Mrs. Ilobi it Hudson, nave luiumeii ,),,. ,,.111111111111,' sK small boat's and le
nt to the Lake Toipe.lo Una'
llrid(-'' poi I, Conn
NO W
ARTEC
. nt. 1 . in . . made Ids 1111t.11.1l visit to the j to Hmoklwi, N. .-V. W . I-laKR spe.il
1 M. ibooiit Cbuich hero Sunday and t Sunday in Mlddlebiiry with his uncle
pr. idied al the inoniini,' services. Col Karl I'rost Waldo l'owcrs, a -ttijciil
A llsley. wlm lias In en cniiMned to at tlio Dm llnKton ltusincss Collose, spent
In-, m .ins at The Addison tr a few , the week-end w-Uh his parents. Dr. and
wi.k-- is slowly (.-aliiinir, altlioin-di be isj.Mrs. J. I'.. 1'iiweis. Attorn-v and Mi"
nn ihle as yd to have his rooms. I'ratt Samuel It. Ilot.ford of lluifiilo. N. V..
11 "' rrtll, who myslerioiisly disappeared ' wore week-end quests of c.-Mnor and
li-oin In.- b'.nio in Ni w Haven on October , Mis. John A. Harrington. -I.evi II Hrown
I'M.'i. returned unannounced Satin day made a biisiiuss tilp to Mancbcster Sat
nicht Lewis l.'uller of Worceslet, urday.
c .11.-111 of Mis. A. c. Tuber of this vll- VeiKomios Ciinuso observed l'oimdo! '
'bi"i 'diot a black bear weKblnf Iff.' nli,-ht Friday evenins. and worked Hie
1
. .Vn-tonnor wi
t In ir
inti.uin
I
l'MM IvS HMSi: PIUCJ!.
r' 1 .1 Nov. 1$. Till co local
ntr ia ier nioiinced to-nit-'ht that
nn '
1 I
, inbcr 1, the nito per
it -to. id of la cents. This
fi . wed one made by thu
1.1 w -1 ipers yesterday ad
i m per copy from one tn
-Li I N I
11 ( 11 10
..Y
d 11
II I 1'
bi
.11
in il
red
It
1.
till
W
WITIK tl'T -OOI
21. After beini?
ii nhout food or water
llarr of Clilcauo to-day
the Massillon polico
.His for help, llarr
o.l. lie declared bo
icok iiko at Cblca
while he slept.
'HIST I'OO-illALL FATALITY.
Is' r vi i .1 inumi t. .IOHC.S,
i M i" I ill I' . . member of a font-
team ntr. -iti'in-r tin- inntai ir
mint f lb- I iiivorsily of IMIlMiurK
late l d- y fr 111 injuries 111 a tea in
.ovembor .1 'i.' w-i-4 kf k ! m lilt'
and pnraly ! uit'd
j p. nnds Mr. Fuller had been visitlm.'
idalivis in Hancock and was on Ins re
turn In ibis vilbii-'o when he saw the
animal cnumr out of liis liole. The pelt
If-a lino one.- -Mrs Hairy J Cobb and son,
Clifton have ctuie to Swanton. where Mr.
('i.l.l. is 1 lUTime.l in 1 lie picture
l iisliiess.-Mr. and Mrs. Sidney Hush
liell have none to Thomiisonville, Conn.,
where they will spend tlio winter with
their son. M. W Hiishndl.-Mrs. C. II.
Lowe of Moni pole r, who has bet n visit
lm.' at the home nf I'rofeveor and Mrs.
lliilhaway, ha.- returned Imino. At the
r"(.'iilar iin i Im- nf the Middb bury iliaiiKc
Friday . ininit.' the follow iti' 1. Ulcers wore
I ideeteil: Mn.-i. r. II M. liain: overseer.
Frank J. 1 hit. I. a id . hctuicr. Mrs. Henry
'I'liinas: steward. Charles l.itmin: assist -
Cicnernl Wood, representing the Hotiuh ant steward. Dana Jones: lady assistant
Illdors' association, Bae the now under- steward, Dili. I Hailott; tn usurer, llany
takini; in behalf of Norwich his uiniuali-j L. Hunt: mr.liirv, Mildred Hunt; ibap-
Onc Covers Half the Cost of Rid
ing Hall and Stahlcs An
other of SS.noO.
New York, Nov. 'St. An enthusiastic
luncheon held here 10-day at Hie Hank
er' club in the interest of Norwich I'nl-
versity was attended by (ioncr.il Leon
ard Wood, Perrv Helrnout, Unbelt Itacon,
12. D. Adams. Daniel Williard. prcMdont
of the n & O. railroad, 12. II. llookoi
Ira L. Heevis and others.
tied endorsement and praised Hie univer
sity most highly. 'I'ho under taking con
templates raisine; funds for sta'des, rldintr
halls and a commons ball.
Announcement was made of one, contri
bution eovorliu.' one-half Ihe cosl of tlio.
ridiiiK ball and stables and another con
tribution of $."i,i'0. The lielnulnK Is most
promising.
A letter to Captain Arthur F. Crosby,
secretary of the ltoin;li Uldurs' associa
tion, from Colonel Uooseiclt on the, sub
ject of Norwich Is as follows'
"The sMKKvstlon 01 Mnjiir-denoral
Deonard Wood, the llrst colonel of our
KoukIi Itidors' rcKlincnt. that the HoiiKh
ltlders take dellnlle action to assist
schools that provide tlrst-i lass military
instructions, meets with mv hearty ap
proval. I understand the plan to bo for
the (.astern blanch of the HoukIi Hldei.-'
roinr&rr Tn I iniiT ''"i,i,it"i"f's-s "'-"latum t i.pKir, -u
USllSUrJ I III 1 lliH I I"'"' a ampan-'ii in behalf ot Norwich
I mill la I III I IM I I I 1 'l'"ity "f Norlhliehl, Vflrmont.
LUIUUIV I I U kalMll I ...,, ..... ,1,,,, 1 1 i u lino ol.l linn il n I inn
ATUE OF LIBERTY
UJIII'Ill lllVIHIl.11 ll II4lltll
Celebration in New York
Saturday Night.
1 W or(, No- J'.l Niw 1 ol KB
at ' sk s-rap' is ' will be brilliantly
nun it d S.it r Lit night when Pros
it llbon h( 'ds .m aiitomohile par
IbrouKb tin downtown section of
e ity attir In b is incepted on be-
f of tin n.itii ii i new ebctric llood
..1 ... . .. ... 1.... .t... .......... ..- 1 ti.
1111 U 1- . ." I I III .III ill'' PI IL II. Ill 1,111
v prrtvnb il by funds raised by popu-
nibsiriiitinii by thu New Vork
rid
1 ei 1-11 1 UK .'I' ... ... ..ii.-, .iii-
inceil to t.iKiil, .miss 1 .11111 Law, wno
ently establio'ied a new American
rd in in ron.iutics by Ilinn from
em o to nniucii, 1., w in on Oil
ill the pro 'Idol. Hal yacht Mu!lowcr
an , irpl.m ' b 1 tric.tilly liislite.l At
Siii ii till . what is said to hu the
st powiiiiil -c iioniiuni, in un' coun-
ill In pl.iMil on the Mayflower,
111 till II KS III won'll l no j icMiiciil
I Ins party will view thu lllumiiia
n of the I.iIk rty statue.
t ! planned to Hood Hie city with
white and blue and Koldnri Hunts
Hie nil-' lit of tlm Piesldeut'K view
.ii.iiii nti.i in- 1 .' v r .Mil
1 lllllllll' !!
1 'tilted to lllnlit. -Morn tlian JUU
1 H ie ally driven and electrically 11-
ninatid automobiles will Im used in
nnr, nli followille; the ceremonies 111
i 01 1; harbor
Flu President is expected in arrive
Ni w York shortly alter three o'clock
turdu afternoon, J Jo will he met by
mayor and others, nltnr wiucn no
II board tlio Muyllowei' and proceed
tin si. Hue of Liberty. Thn naval
dit Doll. hill Willi SccretniW of til
m iJalili I: 011 board, will follow thu
Ilowi 1 Part of the Allautle llei
II pai'tli ipati 111 the ccrcmiiiii' S
n
woman "knows the f-torci" unlcsi
has icad the latest aUs of tlio stores,
He only stiictly cavalry school in
Miiei'ici makes il peculiarly appropriate
bat the Iioiinh Hldois Mdopt' it.
'The regular' army officoiH who h.ivii
inspi't led Norwich University, includlm
loncral Wood, spiak with marked en-
tbusiasm over the military enioieney of
the Institution. I am much impressed
with Hie hu-'h standard which was estab
lished nearly one bandied years iiko, and
which has since maintained in this, the
oldest military school In the 1 nlted
States except West Point.
I am Kind to loarn Hint our old reni-
inent hcediiK Hi" possibility ol till tiler
servhe lo the country, lias decided tn
alio action Hi. it will show that the talk
1 tn mt preparedness is tuliiKlnK concreio
usults. 1 hope that our roKhnont will
Im able to secure sufficient money to
net the bilildiriKS which Norwich Fill-
eibity so much needs. This would enablf
tlio school to continue, with Increased
oMUipmeiit and facilities, to train yount!
men for first class service! to 1110 nation
In peiu e as well as In war.
Like (ieperal Wood, I should be Kind
to do anylhiiu? I can to help alone in thia
most commendable work."
St. .lohnshury Wedding.
St. .lohnsbury. Nov. SO -A very piotty
wcddliiK look place at the home ot Mr.
and Mrs. 12dwaid Pelorbon to-day wnen
thoir daughter. Helen, was united In
nnirlw to Milton FIcwefliiiK. a drafts
man of llostnn, The llev. (ienH',0 Martin,
piuitor of the Methodist church, pm form
ed Iho ( ereniony. A double iini? survUv
was used. The bride and Krooin were
'unit tended The bride was kIwii away
by her father.
Misses I'.thel Taylor. Itae Harney and
Fawn Harney helped In the duilim 100111.
Mrs. Ilaii Peterson of HuilliiKton cut thu
Ice cream. Miss ICdith Stone wa in
chat'Kn of tho Kiiest book. Dccoratlom
color, salmon nrcon and yellow chrysan
Hicmums and Kround pino nnd sprucu
tumuli, sprucu wreaths, Kreen and yellow
ciepii paper, yellow ribbons and smllax
and chosanlheiiuims,
With official order In strike in
hands of coal miners, eastern Hrltlsli
Columbia and Albeita face one of the
most far-i oaehiiiK strikes In history of
c. ni.nl. 1 Coal siipi.lv is aln i.l short
I in e 1. 1 ihurth of cms throitabout
lust SUIIIIIIll
lain, llanso'-i S Hcnei'lct; Katrki-eper,
Hoy Slurti wait; Flora. Mrs Mary His
sott: Cel.- Mrs. Nelson Si ymniir:
Poniuna Mrs. Willis Only: chorister.
W. IJ. ('him nt; pianist, Mrs. Arthur
lirislol. The .bile of the Installation of
the new ollieers bus not be n set.
A pretl., double wedding took place
lit St. Mar s Catholic Cliuiclw Monday
inoriiiiiB at einlit o'clock, when Miss
Hlichi'l Trudo and William Dosjadon of
Cornwall and Miss Daisy Lathrop ot
Lincoln and Stanley Trudo of Cornwall
were united in man lane by Father T.
-I. I nard. Aftei the enremonv they
were di I veil P. the home of Mr. am!
Mrs. Trudo in Cornwall, parents of)
two ni rue coiitraetlnu parties, where I her-enf!
the wediluiK pii'ty was Riven a break
fast. I tot Ii eouplc.x leeeived many cost
ly and useful picscnts from their many
fiiomls. Laler in the day Mr. and Mrs.
Trudo and Mr. and Mrs. Despidon loft
for parts unknown. They will make
their homos in this vicinity.
Stale Mastei n the (Iranye and Mrs
Willis -N. C.i.ii bale returned from
Washington I', c, whine Ihev attended
tho National Ornuue uieetlnif. which
was hold in th.it city last week.- Halt
W. Landers, who lias been sufferiiiu; for
two weeks witli lumhauo and kindred
tumbles wa able to resume his posi
tion apnln Monday. John Caldwell,
who has been In town for two weeks
to visit relatives and friends, has re
turned to Florence. - Miss Minnie
Doilne, who was taken ill whllu isltln;;
nt the home of her patents. Mr. and
Mrs. Charles DoiIrc, in Prooloi, two
weeks iiko, has recovered and loiurned.
Charles L. Parish of Hililport. John
W. Mason of Sprlnftlebl .mil Henry
Mari'oue, and D. J. Marcomli of Hrnt
tleboro are vlsitlnc lelatives in lov.n.--Miss
Doris Maclielscv has returned
I'inm West llutlmiil after a visit at the
linnie ot 1 1 1 ' paienls. Mi. ami Mis. L. C.
M.ickolse.N A. C. OsKood of Hui-liiiK-tuii,
who lias In on on n business Irin
in this section for a week, has returnul
honio. Mr. and Mrs. Pearh lirantlsoii,
who looently went to nui liriKion. liavo
returned for a couple of weeks,
previous to their final retain lo thn
(Juoon City. Mis. William Moieomli,
Sr., who has boon vIsIHiik at Hit homo
of hei son, (leorui! Mm comb, for a few
das, has letuiiioil lo hor homo in Hinl-
jiort. -Motidnv, mm ket day. ckks(a. noolli,
biiiUKht r,2 tents and biittei :m ., 37 j mail of thn
cents. -Mrs Lucy lidKortiin has i losed
her house and uoiiu lo .'air Haven,
whole she will spend the winter with
hor daimhter. Mrs. K. 11. Clift. Mis.
Mary Til. Ion lias Kno to Hioiikhn. N.
V., to bpenil the winter with her daiiKli
tor. Mrs. A. L. Janes.--Mis. Julia
Webster is vtsltinir Mis. Conine Weli
sler al Hid linnie of Mis. C. P. Smith.
Miss 1-2 Dominlim Is also there.
Peter J. Donnelh, a inimor wull-known
resident of this vlllime, hut now of Hiid
poil, was on Ids way hoinn ycstenbiy
with a pair of horses when din nock yoke
litoko. lettlm; Hie wiiK.1111 onlo Hie horses
and friKhtcnliiK them. They tan anil
Mr. DonneU was Ihtowii and iIi.ikkciI
l.n ipute a dislame, but eluiiK to the
tcaiii and inauaKeil lo stop Iheui lie
was so badly cul and hi nisei! that Dr.
I' L Dincy ol" lids vilhiKo was called ami
was (iblincl to take several slltdies to
do 1 Hu wound Willi. 'in K Sc.irs has
. tiirned fl' itii Hie Funny Mien hospital,
vvliuru lui vvuul tu Msli his nioUicr, Mis.
tlilrd and foiirtli degrees on Ihice cinin
dates. The election of ollicels for tin
comiiiK vear will be held Friday evening. I
December V John II. LiiSonttf has com
menced woik on the Norton House to re
pair the dam.iKc Vmne b 11" nil II'
-.1. C. Meld visited bis sister, Mrs. Abra
ham Lash, of liurllnKton, Katuiday
Twin boys were bom Sunday afternoon in
Mr. and Mrs. Claude Fisher ot Montpcl
ior. Mr. Fisher is a son of Mr. and Mrs
C. F. lishei of tills place. -Mrs W. A.
Meade of Hartford, a foimer 11-sidint of
YerL'ennes. was a week-end vlMtoi to In .
.nnl Mrs. .1. It. Powers. Percy 1-2. Kevin.-.
former iiKent for tlio American l.xpie
companv her, now iiKent for the same
company at Littleton, N H., spent Sua- 1
dav niKbt at the home of Mrs .1 C Watt. 1
Mam sired, leliirnlliK to Littleton Mini-1
ilij morning. -Siieei Commlssmnoi '
John M. Allien and a lorce of men are .11- '
stalllnu a '-iin b diameter, llti-foot Iouk
lion sluiceway in the Ciosbv hollow .Tlio
2iworth l.oiiKUe of the Methodist I2pisi 1 -pal
Church of Hai'iiuniiow 11 will hold a
hos social in the chinch Friday evcnliiK.
The boxes will be sold at auction. C. I.
Marsh of Hiandoii called on triotids here
ostonla.v. Allien William Palmer, son
of Mr. and Mrs I'2dward Palmer of this
city, has enlisted in the naval tr ilnii K
school, Harracks A. Newport I. I. --Tile
Methodist llpisoopa Church at Harnuui
town has boon HioroiiKldy romodob-d and
the tirst set Nice in sl yeais was hold 'ti
the church Sunday evenuiK under ibu
auspices of the Hpworth LeaKiie, Mrs.
j I n 1 r j Sears, b-ader. Ites-2at" services
will In' hold Sunday noon. -Mrr.
J. C. Walt, --on. Dr W. S. Watt, and her
ilnUKhtcr. Mr- Mary vv'alt, left Mon
day fur Little N. H , wboio Hicv wi'l
spend the wint. 1 -Tin condition of Mis. j
(leon-'o ('. Ho--, wno inientl" Ullderwoiii
an o emtlon at the Fanny Allen hospital,
is s'ov. iy impm.'inK.
Mis P.ichanl MacdniiKiil lias boon
lulled In limners' Home, N. Y., by
thu serious i!!i.esn of her mother, Mis.
Mary avert'.- St- Peter's Court, c. (.
F , will bol l a card party and dance
at Forestc-s' hall Thursday evonln
Music will 1.0 fiinnsnen ny ur, and -Mrs.
V. W. Wan main. -Mis II. D. lldiTciiv,
who has been vlsttlntf hor inutlicr, Mrs
12. li. Wtlcrn. at the home ot her brother,
W. P.. YVainrr. has .uuirneii 10 Now
York city - M"- 1" 'r- I'Vibhie Rave u
paity M0111I.0 afternoon in honor of tho
Kiih 'hlrtliilav of her il.nc'hter. Cr.ioc. I.', of
her Ktrl friends OehiK i.res'M.t. (lames
were played -.nd ref 1 oshment.-. served. -The
(ondillon nf Mrs. IC. U Win ox, who
is at Hie hopi' nt her son, vV. It Warner,
reonverhiK fioia an oporatlnn nt the Marv
l''letcher liospit.il. is Htrndii Improving.
Allied Plan- of Hildpni! is spondiiiK
n lew- davs burn The Jlev. Aaron H.
Clark of It.'-'bud. K. D, a foimer prip
clpal nt" the emetines -.t-h fil, c.illed
Ion friends 'on- .viouuay anernoon aim
was the Bur I of Mr. and .Mrs. (it-oiKo D.
Mlddlebriioi. Mi Clark Is making a trip
i;at In 'la' uitertsts of the mission work
,'inionK the Ploux linllans in Dakota, ot
which he has had chaiKc tor about :m
years. Tii-nay inoliiiliK lie nave an
address in BurliiiKtnn before lite students
of Hie I nivci-sit of Vciiront. Mrs.
Clark, wlm wr-s Hie .lauKhler ol Cvrm
(ornier iirouunji'.i iiuslucsi
It.v. accompanied Mr. Clink
visliiriK her brother, JuiIki!
John Moon- or riaiisnuiKii, ., 1 .- tih
Ilisliy Meui'.nai uiirary win do 1 ioh-u 011
ThanksBlvliiK dnv-
The llev Thomas Stevenson, pastor of
the Vois-oniies and I'ci lislnn k .Methodist
Hplscopal Chinches, and .Mrs. Alice
Follies of Cliesterlown, N. Y . won. 111111
ilod ThanksulviuK evo In the Methodist
I2plscopal Chiuob of Maylleld. N. V., by
Ibe llev ' l'- Hooth, The bridu was mar
liid in her tinvelliiK dress of dmk bliiu
seine, with Imt to mulch, and was attend
ed by Mis ' '' "ooth and Miss Anibrose.
Thc'lionevniooli will be spent In Mil Held
and Dunkirk, N V. Tim llev. and Mrs.
Stevenson "I" teturii home 011 Wednes-
Jlt x p,i iber I'leipolnt Lodlie, No.
:t7, KniKhts of I'ylhlas, will iiominale olll
ic'rs for t'"' ''omiiiK year at Hielr ioku
lur iiicctlnK lilday cvvnmK-Ollii .Mmi
clieslor of liltslleld, Mass, has Joi I
wlfi at HU' noil 1 nor paicius. Mr
I company ol
Tlio now battleships will In ,-ister ship
to the California and 'D ntn 1 . now
under construction, except that tiny will
b" lltlid to carry eiifht IB-1111 1 nllos in-'
! stead of ? 11-inch Tliov will displac
iaboui :ij,r.oa tons.
Tin tvin licet submarines will bo of tin'
so-called xGO-ton tpe and similar 111 siz.
to the licrnian P-M, which called r. . cntly
at New poll. P.. I. Iii-fou inakinK a raid
on alliid ce.nimi rre off Nan'uikit
' Now Vork, Nov. 20. An 1 state of
! was all that Pastor Charles T Ttussoll
licit, acconlliiK to bis will, which was
'published to-day in Ihe December issue
I of the "Watch Tower." The estate is
b. (ucatbod lo his widow. Pastor Kussoll,
'who was founder of the Watch Tower
I lilble and Tract society, spent 10 years
In evangelical wolk.
Tlio will stipulates that 'lie mm np
p.iinled by him as the editorial staff of
!us magazine are to reecivi Jla inch every
month for current cxp. n.-c-i m addnion
to board and lod-inK
DOUBLE SUICIDE IN
RATTLEBORQ ROM
E
FUNERAL OF MISS AUSTIN.
and Is now
llml of S. Albans Woman Token In
lllirllnclon for llitrlnl In l.al.e lew.
St. Albans. Nov Li'. - Funerai sdrvi. es
for Miss .Iciinie D. Austin. iikciI ":l vear.s,
who died at the hospital Monday niorn
itiK. follnwinK an opoi atlon, worn held at
the Methodist 12pi"i opal Church this
I moi'iimp; at ;i:.Tn o'ctoc.i. the Key. John
, Hoiijandn Magon oHiciatmi; Mrs (). W.
Hrewer sanK "I Hoar You CallniK Me"
and "Face to Face." which had been re
iiuesteil l. Miss Austin The bearers
1 wore A. c S P.eeman. W. '1 III own, (J
' W. P.rowoi, P.. K Palmer. Hairy Lenn
'ard and Chimin o 12. Heommi. The nt
' mains were taken mi Hie in."'". o'i lock train
'to HuilitiKton fm burial in Iike View
'oenioter.v AoooinpanyinK the remains
were Mr and Mrs. A. l(. Austin,
Mrs HeorKo Austin. William Austin, Mr.
Hrevver. Mr and Mr11. MiiKee, Mr. Leon
ard, C 1'2. Ileenuiu and -Mr and Mrs. A
W. Mcrthu- of this oHv, Mis. Jennie
Wells and -Mrs Aitbur Wells of Milton
and Mr and !lr William PanIto of
SpriiiKll'id. .las--
TEUTONS iTlTlLDINfi
NEW SLEEPING CARS
Herlin. Nov .".1. (via S.i.v ville.1 The cai s
of the famous W1mon-l.1t company, so
familiar to Amerii ans travoim-' on Con
tinental rallvv.ijs. will, so far as Herman
railways, mid pin'. ably her a'hes' railway.-,
are coai on, o.l, be re itjoi d by
similar but llimouubl ui'-dcrni '.c.l ars
of a new Herman oninpan. will' b has
iust been fnundod. Witn tlio moilest capital
of Jl.i.i"l The old Fi encb-llelKia'i
company had a miin.ii.oly tn neatly the
wind" of tluroi.1 to run its slcepliu: cars,
ilitiiim' i.irs, and pallor iars over the var
ious railways, and tho famous trains,
such as the North and South 12:iprcss
onntiecHp.K Pe'.royrad and Constantinople,
with Hie wc-,i of llurope, v.eie ci uiposffd
mliriiy of wiqnris-lit.
When the war luolvo out this l'rrnch
HeHrinn service C'-ase.l aliruptly, and its
handsome! earn have since luen turned
into rollim; hospitals and carry the
wounded tiom tho haltli'tle'ds. iristead
of bKdal couples nn ibeir honeymoon
trips. 11s in peine tlino.
Iven la fnrc the war the Pr11.-sl.1n-llessian
I'liion of State Hallways decid
ed urn tu renew the tommis with Hi.
From li-1'.elpimi lonipan.v. bit 1 rente a
t'crvi. " of It-- own. .Sirae Hi" boyinnln
of the war the m w company ban boon
foimuiK. in whieb Austrian. HuuKarlan.
ami ('cman capit il p.irtiiip.itc piopor
lion.ilel. 'I'M.- company .ib.-oiiiid (ne
Fitiiiu; Car company, 011 Prussian linos,
and .a few olbei lunnlhit' companies, it Is
understood that tho new coiuvin will
immediately boein to urfjanlze a servn e
all over Central Kurnpe on new and much
Inipro.ed lines. Its new rolling stock Is
b.-l:iK ib sl-'iie-l on artist ii as well as masr
pr.u lien1 lines.
PHP. WOMAN COl'NTV AC.I'2NT.
llutland, Nov. :ti. -A nioviunetii to en
Kane a woman county iiBent lor P.utliind
county In order thai tm farmers" wives
may learn thu latest liooilos KoveniluK
the name of housekivpuiK while their
husbands are amdyliiK Intonsivo aitii. ul
Hue has been innuuurntoil- WKh " view
to launchiiu.' it before a lame number of
women theie will be 11 session for women
at Hie :111m. 1 1 uiiioHuu of the llutland
county fai in I. mean bete December .1. A
circular letter sent out by Hie olllcois in
vites Hie women to spend the murnliu: In
shnppinK. to dine at Ihe Shrlnn thealis
with the luiieaii mi'iiibeiship and then to
listen to lectures by Miss Kathleen Halk
Iiih, woinan county uncut for Cbeshiie
county, New Hampshire, and Mrs J. M.
I Hiuucli, who is associ ited with Hie uni
versity oNtcnsInn win'U at liurllnKton
Mrs. Dluiock's topic will hu "Thn Kusl
uess of HousekeopiliK-"
Mother and Daughter Inhale
Fumes of Gas Range Both
Dead When Found.
Hrattleboro, Nov. if' Mrs. Carrie Sophia
Porter Johnson, .'.'I. wife of Ktm'ene O
Johnson, a vvhrclvvriKht of 10 Spruce
street, and her daughter Miss Victoria
Johnson, -jr., tommittod suicide this fore
noon in their home by asphyxiation. They
tnoveil a cot from the attic into the
kitchen, plUKuod all opcniiiKS to the 100111,
plaiod thoinselvos on the cot.
with her head one way and til
Ihe opposite
I Hie valves
Although the ItussiatiH. probubly nr r
diversion, have started and are rarryin
on with Krea.t intensity an offensive In tho
"nrpathimi resion around Kirlibaba
nortlivvoH' of the Ftnumanlan border, tbn
advance of the Toutonlc al!i"S all aJon,:
1 tho lino In Wall.-u bin toward tl.c J'oi
I man Ian capital of liuiinr. st a;par.'nUy
Is inectliiK with little lin,ii"lltncn:
The left Hank of Hie forces of tho cen
tra! powers have now eapt ur d t'o Im
portant railroad Juncilon of I'etocl.ti, '5
miles northwest of I'.ucharesf. m tno
center the Roumanians nre reported t
be retrcatlim ea'iward In disorder wine
Ibe rlKht Hank 1 .imposed of the army
of Field Marshal Vori Mack'Iison wbi (l
crossed the Danube, is carrying out
inanoouvres In co-o. 1 atiun with the other
crnnmnndeis to tin porth
The pi iroKrad war off'ce In admi'
HnK a continuation 01 tl. rctn.it of
the Ilotiinaniatis says tlo M.uki'isin
men opi ratiiiR- from Alexai dria ha e
advanced alom; the Turnpor n id 'o
KuliiKurena. the latter town b. tri; JO
miles south of Hucharest. Turks are
IIkIiHiir: with tlm Hermans and Vn
trians 111 this region
The Russian official eommnpi U m
assorts that the Russian att.o k 1 -it
and south of Kirllbaba hus risuU. il n
the capture in both regions ol r,o-
and the taking of Ton men prison' is
The I'" rllli war office admits that si it
trains were made but says tl Hu- is
, suffered heavy casualties
Apparently bubs Infantry l,i:htitiK l. is
taken pl.no on any of the other froi is.
on the line in Franco and Ho unim tl c-b
di.'ivo '.eon nrltlllery duels it s an ia
points and here and there -nail a te ,s
1 o.v laidniK parties of hot' tie lii'lfftr-Ion:.-
Similar IikIiHiik Is tn in pUn o on
, ho Ru-iian front.
Tho latest Herman o!tn I..I comrminica-
1011 savs, pilot prevails e.ntl Maccdont.in
front, there havinK I.e. a no rcsnmpti m
of the Krcat battle of the earlv wec'i In
in null Hot It the Teutonic alllos ami tlm
I forces nf the mtento claim to have had
Hie advaritiiKo.
The Russians admit a further nd v on
bv tho Turks south of Van in Tur- 'i 'r-
iponia.
The Hrltlsli kov eminent becinmiiK Dc
comber 1 will take control of all the coal
mines in South Wales, apparently to pre
vent tbe miirc dispute between t tic mi
ners and ormrators from interferins with
the coal supplv.
TURKEYS AND EGGS
DROP IN CHICAGO
Housewives In Tlinf
Ilcononiicall a"
(it.v Undue
Possible.
me lym
other 1
directum, and opened all of
of the larBo uns range. 1 hoy
wore found ny .vir. .innnson wnen 11.1 n
tunicd at noon for his dinner. Physicians
eoiild not revive them. Mental unbalance
is Ki vun as the leaaon for the double
suicide.
Mrs. Johnson some years iiko under
went an operation and at that time her
fnnlly weio told that she was not al
ien riuht mentally. Miss Johnson,
who had been married and obtained a
divorce and the liullt to resume her
maiden name, a few years iiko attempt
ed her own life by drinking" denatured
alcohol. Since lor divorce she had
made her home with her father anil
mother NeiKhbors noticed Miss John
son k to a mail box near hor home at
about nine o'cloik this inuruiiiK and
mn it .1 letter Afhr that tiny Jld not
!. ither mother or dmiKhiei. '
u':.. I'.inlilii'' iirnisu,.! as l.cth had
obses.-ed '.villi He- idea that ho ti"ibh .
bois did not like them I
Mr JoMison. when ll returned it!
noon, vvm fore, d to obtain ei.trinop by I
moans of 11 ladder lo the S' lonn :uur. ,
Mrs .lohiisiu was bmn in Howe. M,i-n ;
and I1.1 I lived here :ll years, the I
leaves li. r bust and, one son and .1- .
linuKhter j
("hi'.iKo, Nov. L"i. Turkc .- .1 I
took a sudden drop to-day when 1'
found they wore certain to have I
ipiautitles of each on hand 11
been expelled Inquiry ami" . r
dealers revealed that hou-e'v
turric 1 to duck- and seese ami .
for their Thanksqivins dinners .r
buying just as few okks as vu r. n.
rf.iry to provide the "tlins" for 11 . -
About mid-day wholesale dean s
rinunccd a drop of three cents .1
on turkeys and two cents a d".
ckks. A little Inquiry onions let ,, .
veiilod that turkeys had dropped fr
cents ;i pound tn 21 cents. Ukss 1. 1 1
down one cent a dozen in th" 11 a
of instances, prices rniiKlutr fmn ;1
to :i cents a dozen.
i en
1 ;er
an
i 'ail
id
n?
w r
1 s
l si
. Tl
- -e
.r- 'I
n.'
, ntv
cuts
,vhh h 1
been
FOIlMITnL.Y OF VHHMuNT
Hurralo. N. V., Nov. 2D. Mrs 1: .irna
Whit' ornb. '.14. widow of th' ' it '5r
Charles (iilbert of 1 1 yd" I'.i-1 d ed
i.irly to dav iit In r hurii I Hp;
l..vp'i one daiiKbtcr, Sir. lh U it
ler Skinner Tbe fun-rit ;irr.ni uie its
are pot completed
WOMAN TO REPRESENT
KANSAS ELECTORS
CHIEF JUSTICE
E'
1UNS0N TO RETIRE
Tupckiv, Kans
cbly will 0 tn
Ktaiwii' in tlic
Hubert !.
nei-.ticral n Slat
Nov. " A woman prob-
.fhlnwton to reprcs. at
1 1 'idenlia! electoral " !
Tuticr, chairmi'l'. ot tnei
ommittco, said 'o-l.-: ,
Announces He Will Not Go
fore the Next Legislature
for Re-elc. lion
Bo
P' epu ratiom. wore boiiiK made I" 1 hno-e
Mis. P.. c li.vniun of lluubinson i"
rei.iesent the Kansas electors. Mrs. Lav
mau Is the llrst woman to bo named us. -v-a
presidential elm tor In the Stall lice
"Women of Kansas aided mtiterlnlly I j,, u,eia: d
11, civniK I'resident Wilson hi.' s' H to-nlBhl:
plummy in inis lhh, .tei i..nni.. .
.1.1..!.. . iu llMtie- r,i.'i,''iUri,-in nf I'll! HOWl 111 l-H'
Voters m send a woman m annl'iSTCoi l er fn. appeared trn follow iiiK
m b.'i'ter. Nov. 21 The follnvdni; ns
-el.itive to the rellreinnt f .""'llei
M'.':;. f w;.. 1 o-jl
Man 'heater Journal cf No"'im
with tin Kansas vote.
HIGH PRICES PINCH
PACIFIC COAST CITIES
I, Idle
1,11.1'IH I of
l.c In sn,i
T'ir-
Ins
(luutluurd ou luigc (vvu.)
Iini. 1.11 on
""niiielsco.
imlsco. Cal. Nov "Ji. -Tile pmcl
prices for v.rlwally
1,1)110,000 pound of tuikevs arrived
In Huston Monday from Tomih and
sniilhweM iilcv were sold to w liolc
saleis at Ironi :U In .11 cents a pound
H. l. ill. is .-.HO tin v would have to Kit
from 12! tu la 11 ut"
San I"
if liiaii prices for v.rlwally ovcrv com
nioilliy that jiocs tn inc.ke up a Tnanks
"ivlnu dinnet was felt tu-day by market
slinppets ill every clly on the l'.l'itii'
voiisl Tlio smaller iiiinmiriines wore
innie favored by reason of their prosiinil.v
to truck Kin dens and poultry (arms.
A ciirefiil appraisal of sentiment in San
i'liincisco by poultiy retailers developed
that there, was little likelihood of a boy
colt on tuike.vs and as a lesiilt Sia tons
of dressed turkes have boon shipped tu
the local niaikels in Hie last two days.
Tbe iciail price was Kenerally fioin -'5 to
cents a pound.
Raisins, one of the chief ptoducls of
Callfoiniu, woie 33 cents a pound, when
us last year Ihey were i,'2 cenls.
Soutbi 111 Idaho, a turkey country, was
pot immune from the IiIkIi prices fur
that lavorcil fowl, reports flom Holse
slallUK llial "lurkejs were liriliKlUK the
unprccediintcil price uf 32 cenls a pound "
Shlpunnts of Ihe birds from the Roise
viilli, II vvu- saal, will total well above
!IW).W0 this vuar
j .11 nui: mi'Vsos Mrr i'd lit'
I CA.MiinA'r:: tint !tt2-i2i.i.t s"in
! The Journal lias r-sc.vcl for p.". tea
I in M t he follow 11:5:
I I think this is Hie preiwr Htc ",ii(f
known Hie fact thai iry r.r.me will 1,0 "(
before the I.i-Ki-lature at its iut '1 iloi
Iin 1 niicctlon wlih the olei'tlon .f ices
lln makinii this stntemont 1 vm-i .e ex
I Ijn si. 11, y nppreciatinii of Hu f nil'
I I .'ii'ideiice with which I have I.e.- lion
I or oil li the people of Vtrnmul, wiic
throiIKh tlieir repreeni!iti.es nave j.iver
me I." consecutive elections to ,. seat ir
their hluliest court.
LOVlll.A.VD .ill'NSCN
Manchester, Nov. :I0, 19K".
Chief Justice L.ivcian.l Mansne of Map
cliester vvas born in Mancnester J i y 21
ISI3; Wius educated ,ir mirr - iiuntoi
Seminary; was a mentor of the constitu
llonal convention of IxTo. of the House of
Reprcscnliitlves In 1V.V 1S7I and Is:' anil
a member uf the Senate in ISTS. servinK
ns president pro lenipuie' was re Islcr
of proliate froiu IS'Ct! ta ivio, ai. 1 J ulKo of
probato Ironi IsM lo IV'i. vv
by Cloveiiior DiliitiKham a-'
of supreme court In Kvi, v 0
Tyler, promoted; and his
. c-slVe . le.'tioi's '' 1 lie . .0 .1
He l.o ,uilo duct .liut'-i 01
of J!)l,k
'p
nt
id
inc
1 a. I
