! HOME EDITION
TODAY'S PRICES
Mexican bank notes, state bills.
lc: pesos, S7c: Mexican sold. 45c; na-
.una lea. 16c: bar silver, H. & H. quo
tation. 74c; cupper. t33 0fiS4.00;
grains Irregular, livestock strqner. stocks
blther.
LATEST NEWS BY ASSOCIATED PRESS.
El Paso, Richly Blessed, Is Thankful
TO R EST
Protestants Of City Unite In
Union Service In Cleve
1 land Square.
PONTIFICAL MASS
PRO-CATHEDRAL
'Army Camps Celebrate with
Feasting Governor Of
Georgia Maes Talk.
Eli PASO, rich in the -world's bless
ings, celebrated Thanksgiving
day with a glad heart.
Business houses throughout the city
and public institutions, including banks,
courts and city and federal offices
closed.
In the army camps, all duties were
suspended and the day was given over
to rest, thanksgiving and feasting.
Protestants of the city united In a.
big union thanksgiving service in
Cleveland square, with a military band
furnishing the music
Catholics of the city united in giv
ing their thanks in celebrating pontifi
cal high mass at the pro-Cathedral of
the Immaculate Conception, Rev. A. J.
Schuler, bishop of the diocese, offi
ciating. Several of the Protestant churches
held individual services. Including St.
'"lement's Protestant Episcopal and
Highland Park Methodist.
Throughout the army camps, there
"was feasting at noontime, one of the
principal features being a special
"open house" In company M, iOth ln
fj.nx.ry. where the zeneral public was
received between the hours of 11 and
12. and served with refreshments.
This followed the dedication of the
Axton tabernacle in the IOth infantry
camp during the morning. This chapel
is the gift of the soldiers to the chap
lain, whose services have been so large
ly attended for many months past.
Family dinners and dinner parties
among friends were held over the city.
All the hotels were taxed. The Sheldon
featured a dinner-dansant In the after
noon and evening.
The Juarez race meeting opened in
the afternoon for Its usual winter run.
Football games at the ball park en
tertained the soldiers and civilians In
the afternoon and the formal opening
of the new El Paso high school was
another feature of the day. A foot
ball game at three and a program in
th- auditorium at four, followed by a
general Inspection of the handsome
ji-vr building, featured the afternoon.
Alumni of the high school were hosts.
Many dancing parties last evening
and this evening were held or planned
as features of the holiday. The Elks
and the officers at the fort gave dances
last evening. The West Ysleta
Country club and the Toltec club dances
occur this evening.
Blahop Celebrates Mns.
Solemn pontifical high mass was cel
ebrated at the Pro-Cathedral of the
Immaculate Conception by bishop A. J.
Scbuler. Father J. H. Maloney was dea
con and Father P. "Weeks, S. J-. acted
as subdeacon. Father Francis A.
Lederle. secretary to the bishop, as
sisted at the services. Jesuit priestn
were deacons of honor. Capt. Patrick
It. Dunnigan. chaplain of the 3!d
Michigan infantry, delivered the ser
mon. Lejeal's mass in "D" was sung
for the services.
Fathers Aguirre and Maya were the
Jesuits acting as honorary deacons to
th bishop.
Standards were furnished by the
321 Michigan, chaplain Dunnigan's
regiment.
Governor IIarrl Talk.
Tne various units composing the
Georgia brigade held a Thanksgiving
Gtri ice Thursday morning at ten oclock
at the brigade headquarters, at Camp
Cotton. Gov. N. E. Harris, of Georgia,
a. leader of Methodist laymen at home.
fllf-Iivered an address, the meeting be
ing held under the auspices of the bri
gade's chaplains.
t-nlon Service Held.
T'nion services were held by various
Protestant ministers in Cleveland
square at 10:30 oclock, P.ev. C K. Camp
bell delivering the sermon. City at
torney J H. McBroom read the presi
dents proclamation. The 16th Penn
slvania infantry band rendered music
for the services. Besides Rev. Camp
bell, the following ministers took part:
Rev A. A. Davis. East El Paso Pres
bvterian; Be v. J. H. Allen. Austin Park
Christian: Rev. A. C. Harris. English
Lutheran: Rev. J. F. Williams, First
Baptist Rev. W. C. Baber, Altura
Pretbytenan.
Special Servleeii Held.
At Highland Park Methodist church,
Hev. H. P. Bond, pastor, conducted A.
special Thanksgiving service at 7
oclock Wednesday evening; while at
10:"n oclock Thursday morning, a spe
cial Thanksgiving service was held
at ")mrch of St. Clement. Episcopal.
A "-p-cial musical program was ren-J-
rii b the choir for this service.
Tabernacle Dedicated.
rme of the interesting features of
Thanksgiving day was the dedication
of 'he tabernacle In the camp of the
2'ith infantry at Fort Bliss, which was
attended by many people from El Paso.
Ch.iplain Jos. Clemens, .of. the Eighth,
field artillery, and chaplain W. W.
Brandei. Eiebth cavaliy, assisted chap
lain John T Axton. of the 10th. in the
service. Col. Alfred Hasbrouck, com
manding the regiment, was present and
gave thf key into the keeping of a
custodian. A cement cornerstone was
d-;Mted in the corner of the building
wit .iiiur-n.r.st ceremonies. The
(Continued on Page Column 3.)
But Privately, Did You "Thank The Lord" You Are "Not Like Other Men" ?
sr:ct.i; copy, five
EI BESTS SI PEACE
CJllSEFWEIElETil
Kev. C. K. Campbell, In Sermon at Municipal Service,
Extols the Almighty for Evidences of Prosperity
i In This Country Glad for Recent
Triumphs of Prohibition.
CHOOSING for his text the 11th verse
of the 65th psalm. "Thou crownest
the year with Thy goodness," Rev.
C. K. Campbell, pastor of the Asbury
Methodist church, delivered the follow
ing sermon at the open air municipal
Thanksgiving services in Cleveland
sauare Thursday morning at 10:30
eclock:
"In accordance with a national cus
tom. In obedience to the president's
proclamation. In response to a religious
instinct, we are assembled for the pur
pose of rendering thanks to Almighty
God for national blessimrs. If this
were an experience meeting, we wo.uld
record personal reasons for thanks
giving. 'Come and hear, all ye that fear
God. and I will declare what He hath
done for my soul." But at this municipal
-service we gather to voice a nation's
gratitude to a nations uoo. we are
then, to recite national causes for
thanksgiving. For the purpose of guid
ing our meditation in rich fields of sug
gestion and inspiration, this is chosen
from a psalm that celebrates the annual
miracle of harvest: Thou crownest the
year with Thy goodness.
Crown of iGoIden HaneMts.
"The wheat crop of the previous year
is 5SS.000.000 bushels and it is selling
for tl.75 a bushel. When to this is
added the other staple crops of corn,
cats, barley and rye. our granaries are
filled with the inconceivable amount of
4,707,000,000 bushels of grain Our gr.r
ners are full, affording all manner of
store.
"Our agricultural harvests are but
one branch of our national prosperity.
Our national wealth is put at jiz.oo.
000.000; bank deposits at J2E,086,3S5.000.
.aianuxacruring inoustnes empjue,avv.
000 persons wnose
wages, asgregate I
J5.3i0.00- and - whoT3WSfSUro-T
products are valued at 133.300.000,000.
Says Mr. Gompers: 'Never before in the
historv of the world have so many peo
ple been employed at such high wages
and under such excellent conditions."
"We attribute this extraordinary
prosperitv not to any political admin
istration, but to God himself. He filleth
thee with the finest of the wheat Thou
visitest the earth and waterest it Thou
greatly enrichest it. Thou providest
them corn when Thou hast so prepared
the earth. Thou makest It soft with
thereof. The harvest fields declare the
goodness of God and economic progress yy""- .nr. uunxaien reieasea i
shows His handiwork. i iJle,?'TPusuant to an order of Judge ,
-As a worshipper of the God of love Paul D. Thomas issued Wednesday af
and peace and as a disciple of the ternoon. The men released were serv
F.Ider Brother of the race. I studiously ng out small terms on misdemeanor
avoid giving thanks to God for our charges, all being under a five day sen- 1
profits from the traffic in war muni- tence.
tions. True mechanics have been given The court did not hold session Thurs-
steady work at big wages and the cof-
fers of the munitions capitalists are
swollen with the gigantic profits, yet I
withhold my thanks. I do not rejoice
in money made at the price of shedding
human blood whether It is the blood of
Mexican peons or Prussian war lords,
all of whom are made in the moral
Image of the universal Father. For the
gains made in the munitions traffic we
are apologetic ratner man inanmui
Would it be out of place to sound an j
smonitorv note in this service
dedicated
to praise? Prosperity is not on un
mixed blessing. It has its insidious per
ils. Prosperous nations that forgot God
are buried beneath the rubbish heaps of
antiquity. Where is the crown once so
proudlv worn by prosperous Palestine'
Shattered into a million fragments and
-scattered to the four winds.
National Peace.
"A crusade was once inspired by the
watchword fanatically proclaimed. 'It
is the will of God." Selfish reasons may
be urged for war. economic arguments
advanced, historical precedents cited:
but there does not live beneath these
peaceful skies the political orator who
can convince the plain people of
America that war Is either God's will or
our will. War with Its attendant hor
rors. Its harrowing scenes, its heritage
of hate, is not In harmony with the
mind of Him who said. T' came not to
destroy men's lives but to save them.'
It is a striking coincidence in history
that the outbreak of European hos
tilities marked the celebration of 100
years of peace between America and
England. During that century America
unsheathed her sword but once anil
then for the sake of, striking a tyrant's
chain from a captive people. The senti
ment of the plain people of this land is
gratitude for national peace. He maketh
peace In thy borders. Columbia's feet
are shod with the preparation of the
gospel of peace.
"Our third occasion for national
thanksgiving is
The -Tlrlt of NatinnalUm.
"About 130 years ago we were 1,000,
000 people of a common stock in 13
colonies along the Atlantic seaboard.
Todav these 48 states are Inhabited by
a multitude of 100.000.000. a thousand
times more mixed than crossed the Red
Sea with Moses. Our population repre
sents almost every race and religion.
a'most every written historv- and un
written nisiory and
written tradition. Cleavages are ere- 1
a . 5? racial lemperamenxs. secuonai I
prejudice, religious beliefs. If our sue- I
cess in welding all these diverse ele- I
"BL" '.SJffS.;' S" S5- j
ally cementing these discordant mem- j
bers into a harmonious body animated I
by a common aim. ana working for a j
common welfare. America is com- I
ing to the gradual realization of I
this ideal not primarily because she. in
the asylum Of the politically oppressed. !
not because of her democracy or free ,
institutions, out ratner because she is a .
W.NOUOJ1 iMtiuiL Aiicr ail. iue real iruiuui seiiuiiieiiis ui iMsnev uieiice tJt
meltlng pot of the nations is the King- ! ercised in our behalf? Who but God
dom of God. In Christ Jesus, there can 1 Implanted in the maternal bosom that
be neither Greek nor Jew. barbarian.
Scythian, bond ror free. America Is the
chosen nation for realizing this divine
purpose. We are thankful today for
this Joseph's coat of many colors
cunts.
EL PASO. TEXAS, i HURSDAY EVENING. NOVEMBER 30. 1916.
colors that blend so harmoniously
against the background of the star
spangled banner. The spirit of nation
alism was never so strong as today.
"Our fourth cause' for national
thanksgiving is the
Iteeent Trlnmpbx of Prohibition.
"During this generation the Son of
God has gone forth to war against hell's
most notorious stronghold, the liquor
business. In the early days of this cam
paign there followed in His immediate
train not the politician nor feminine
suffragist but the white ribbon brigade
and the church militant. One state af
ter another has been captured from the
desperate enemy by this valiant army
until now there are 24 white states in
the union: 60 percent of territory and
!0 percent of the people under the white
ibbon The only landslide of the re
cent election was that of prohibition.
"All hail Montana: all hail -Michigan :
all hall Nebraska: all hail South Da
kota: all hail Idaho. You have helped
to crowrt the year with the diadem of
the white ribbon. AH hall Utah and
Florida with your "dry legislatures and
"dry" governors. All hail Missouri, al
most a victor defeated and disgraced by
your ovn capital city besmirched and
debauched, beer soaked and whisky
stained, her foulness the more con
spicuous against her immaculate back
ground. Ail hail William Jennings
Bryan, deposed leader of Democracy,
but committed to the leadership of a
far greater cause either you or your
ptrty ever championed. We are thank
ful for the consecration of your splen
did gifts to this glorious cause. This is
truly a cause for national thanksgiving.
O Columbia, the gem of the ocean, we
will wipe the remaining stains from
your fair 'form so that we 'can present
you, to civilization a glorious nation, not
navingspor . or, wrinkle; or'-any such
. th in
K'h." ...
. -1
7
crownest the year with Thv
Roodness. Bless the Lord. O my souL
and all that is within us bless His holy
name. RIess the Lord. O my soul and
forget not all His benefits."
25 Freed From Jail On
Thanksgiving M orning
Approximately 25 inmates of the city
vail were made nappy Thanksgiving '
morning at S oclock, when corporation
ay morning, ana win not convene
i.iiu until r naav morning, wnen tne
cases of those arrested Wednesday
nlght and Thursday will be taken up. ' i
111 PLUM PUDDINGS ARE
SENT TO COLORADO TROOPS
Fort Collins. Colo., Nov. 30. One
hundred and eleven plum puddings were
tSZZ
t " ' " Vn.:. .. LT
men ana inenas irom
the Colorado
agricultural college for their Thanks
giving dinner, it was announced here
today.
Battery A was mustered out of the
federal serviw in September. The pud
dings were shipped south a week ago
in three consignments.
p RATITUDE to God For Blessings
Is Most Acceptable Form of Prayer
Even the Cup of Sorrow and Afflictions Which We Cannot Understand Are
Blessings in Disguise, Sent for a Purpose.
By Hev. Fr. James H. Maloney, of the Diocese of EI Paso.
"IVt pralne Thee, we blesn Thee, we
give Thee thanka for Thy great glory,
O Lord God, -Heaienly King, God,
Father Almlchty.''
GRA-i
is
RATITUDE. the soul's respiration.
the most acceptable form of
prayer we can offer to God, In
return for His unlimited munificence.
We pre debtors to the Giver of all good
things, not only for His personal bene
factions but also for the temporal fa
vors bestowed upon us by the hands
of men. To Him we stand in debt for
our existence, its preservation, 'and
continuance as well as our merciful
redemption.
vvimt a blessing to be able to pan
. ...
. ! ;
tne mysterious boundaries that separ- j
Pfng from darkness into light, to -
haIJ tne air ot Heaven,
the starry firmament.
to coiuemniait !
10 oe auie iu ;
c,mii.r- iriti, nnr f.iioui man
We are indebted toGod for the agents I
of His meroy. the instruments of His
providence, our parents, friends and
benefactors. Who but God Almighty
could have inspired them with tne I
mother's love, a spark of the Divine
love, as well as spirit of self saci if ice
in the care of her offspring?
Nw the Acceptable Time.
Now ii- the acceptable time, this Is
M0 cHtEj
MILITARY RULE IS
DECLARED IK
EffECT
Washington Denies Report
That American Is. Named
As Military Governor.'
U. S. PREPARES TO
BREAK DEADLOCK
Plans To Enforce Treaty
Obligations to Guarantee
Interest Payments.
SANTO DOMINGO, Dominican Repub
lic Nov. IS. (Delayed) An Ameri
can. military, governor of Santo Do
rr ingo has been appointed.
W'ASHINGTON. D. C Nov. 30.
Capt H. S. Knapp. commanding
the American naval forces In
Dominican waters. Has by proclamation
declared a- military rule In the Domi
nican republic to break the deadlock In
the local government and carry out the
treaty obligations of the United States
to guarantee Interest poyments on the
public debt and other obligations,
llenles Mllltnry Governor Appointed.
Capt Knapp today notified the navy
secretary of bis action and It was ap
proved. He said be expected to have
. train, straightened out by Dec 2 and
I eported condition quiet and the popu
lace satisfied with hiz action. There
was no clash and no military governor
vras annolnted. as mm reported from
a.7 n tnDtmtlttgtf-- '" -
Affair Much Involved.
Since the election of the new presi
dent of Santo Domingo, affairs bare
been in a deadlock because the local
government refused' to permit pay
ment of obligations which the I'nlted
States has pledged itself to see ful
filled. Affairs became so Involved, it
was said here, that Cant Knan. aet-
I ing under the full authority with which
nt has been clothed. deciJed to clear
UP the situation by putting the island
under militar rule temporarily to pre
"t oroer ana carry out the local
government's obligations.
GREGORY IN TEXAS LOOKING
INTO FEDERAL JUDGE VACANCY
Austin. Tex.. Nov. 30. Thomas W.
Gregory, attorney greneral of the United
States, Is in Texas to Investigate ap
plications for the position of judge of
the federal court made vacant by the
resignation of judge T. S. Maxev and
the death of Judge A. P. Mccormick.
in Austin today Mr. Grefrorv took
part in the university hame comfnir t
Ul CKUI V LOOK.
celebration, being an alumnus of the I
university. He also attended the in-
ofU1heaLeiversistys pres,dent vlnsoa
1
Tn CTDiirc ttwi ccc urine
Zr. ,;?.nU:3
OF BROTHERHOOD RECEIVED I
Nash ille. Tenn., Nov. 30. Employes j
in ine engine, train ana yard service
of the Nashville. Chattanooga & St
Louis railroad, have voted in favor of
a strike if necessary to force the man
agement to receive the brotherhood
her.ds in conference, and have given the
railroads until 6 p. m. today to replv.
the season. If we are Imbued with a
deep sense of gratitude for earthly
benefactions, we should never fall In
thaiikfulnesc to the 'Divine Giver."
In justification for the absence of
gratitude 40m to vindiea e themselves,
offer the following excuses: While
1 wmci 1 wuie enjoying roousi neaim
I theV W Tf. MllbfePtpd In a lon-tHv cn-
journ on a hospital .pallet; they say j
rtners were deluged with honor and 1
flattery while they.were Igored and de'
splsed. fetill others complain that
wh.le many were in enjoyment of this
world's goods in abundance, they were
the victims of poverty's straightening
circumstances. Yet withal we must re
turn thanks for humiliations and afflic
tions as well as benefactions, however
paradoxical it may appear.
now onen wnen tne cup of sorrow
uaa uceu pressea 10 our lips it nas ueen 1 uen ,JL mere, ami torrents 01 grace,
a veritable blessing in disguise, and It st- Bernard says, so- hurtful to our
will remain for the day of final reck- selves, so abhorent to men. and s-
oning for us to be appraised of our in- odious In the sight of God. How much
del;-d-ess to God for these selfsame, w would prefer to be charged In the
w,j ren)ain for the day of final reck
epintUal benefits. Tribulation's deluges :
are iruiy uui reiresmug snowers, mat i
nounsfl tne seeds of faith, which
in
11 ,ru,la UI "nciiiication.
lesmnsa.
Affllctlonr ai m truth for martal
man the raw material out of which we
""' ft" "e wl" "e u
pected to be clothed in when we pre
sent ourselves at the banguet of the
king in Heaven. How iioteworthy.
however, is the absence on every side
of thanksgiving to God by His crea
tures whether the circumstances be
auspicious or adverse.
Wc lack griititudt; iu times of prot- '
OET.l
If Hi
- TO MAKE PEACE
Chancelor Says Existence
and Future of the Empire
Must Be Guaranteed
Berlin, Germany. Nov. 20. (Wire
less to Sayville.) In an address to
the relchstag Wednesday, In Introduc
ing the manpower bill, chancelor von
Bethmann-Hollweg again announced
that Germany was ready to end the
war, by a peace guaranteeing the ex
istence and future of the nation.
In presenting the bill providing for
ccmpulsory service of civilians for war
purposes, the chancelor spoke in regard
to the military situation and the pur
poses of the measure. It was the chan
xelor's 60th birthday and Ills desk was
decorated with chrysanthemums.
Tell of Foe Failure.
"The war continues, with its de
structive forces." he said, "according to
our enemies' desire. They celebrated
the past summer as a period of victory.
But did they obtain what they wanted?
"Our lines are unbroken and Ru
mania, through which a great change
of events was expected. Is now atoning
for what she did. God has helped us
up to the present He will help us
further.
"The almost superhuman heroism of
cur troops cannot be expressed in words
of thanks. Our conscience Is clear since
we", "the first and only ones, were ready
and are ready to end the war by a peace
guaranteeing our existence and our
future.
I1II5 Hand "Aulst 'Enemy. "
"But gentlemen, oar enemies do not
yet desire peace. They have superior
umbers at their command and almost
the whole world delivers war material
tc them. !
The chancelor urged the necessity to
An.
cicrmias ib uenQan s power, iu
cider to raanufacture-the necessary war
II BierilllB. spying;
"Hands that are idle assist the ene
my." ' "
Urges rasmtgr of mil.
The bill, he continued, had been dls
crssed with the interested trades and
In ths relchstag main committees and
was in harmony with the patriotic
rpfrlt shown by the whole nation since
the beginning of the war.
"On behalf of the confederate gov
ernments." the chancelor continued. "I
r. k vou to assist in the work which
will bring us new strength and guide us
toward victory and peace."
Katherina Schratl Is
Not, Allowed To Enter
Emperor's Death Chamber
London. Eng.. Nov. 30. A Zurich
dispatch to the Wireless Press says '
that the actress Katharina Schratt, who j
for years was an Intimate of emperor
Francis Joseph, was refused admit-1
tance to the emperor's death chamber 1
on the day after he died and was re-
. " " ,
Quested to leave the castle immediately. :
. .... ." I
CLAIM GERMANS ARE SELLING
STOLEN FRENCH SECURITIES !
!".. 1-. . . 1
-"ov- r reacn- .
in organization of German banks to
market abroad securities and coupons
Jl"'0?' disappeared from the invaded
districts of France and Belgium after
the Germans entered those districts
has been disclosed by the French secret
service in the case of Gesbran Rabbat
a Syrian banker arrested at Geneva.
Rabbat was charged with having in
(Continued on page 13. CoL 1.)
perity because of delight's intoxica
tion and are therefore oblivious of our
indebtedness to our eternal benefactor.
We fall to render thanks, in moments
of adversity since our grateful affec
tions are congealed by tribulation's
cuuiy ojasi ana it is only wnen in ab- 1
ject need that we make the pretense
of gratitnde for favors received. If
w& realize our indebtedness because of (
temporal benefactions how much great- :
er are our obligations in view of being
prospective neirs or his eternal klns
dom. His gifts and favors are resul
tants of motives of purest love for us
and cost the inestimable price of' His
precious blood. Yet how ungrateful
we are and what little thankfulness
we have been the authors of in return.
Ob in gratitude, that Hardliner wind
that dries up the fountain- of nietv. the !
be pointed out as guilty of ingratitude
wwaru our oeneiaciors, a living evt-
dence of dispositions cold and treach
erous. . - -
DeDil'lgent In Giving Tbanka,
Our nation's chief has proclaimed the
supreme domination and Providence of
our creator and Importune acts of
Thanksgiving by all for past .favors as
well as petitions for a continuance of
the same.
Let our diligence in.giving thanks be
part of that mighty stream formed by
the universal gratitude of man at this
season, that reaches the great ocean
r aiv ine love, wnicn ev, r returns In
torrents of celestial benedictions.
1
r.l tH M H H Kr.r
1 2 CARS START
II ASCOT HE
Drivers Compete for $3000
Firsa Prize in 100 Mile
Speedway Dash.
1ms Angeles, Calif., Nov. 20. Twelve
automobile racing drivers started today
in the 100-mlle championship award
sweepstakes on the one mile Ascot
speedway here. The first prize was
worth 3M.
Following Is the list of entries, given
in the "starting order:
-n rrivr Car.
1 Eddie Rickenbacher Doetenberg
8 Earl Cooper .btati
4 Kddie. Pullen Mercer
? v it Rni-knull Mercer
1 . GeorK Bazase DtMMnberg
27 Omar Tofu Omar Special
I Wm Weightman 111., Doesenberg
t Sterling Price . .Candy
If Ira Vail Hudson
S Win Taylor Horaman Special
r Purrr Terry Special
10 M. J. Mooole Dnesenberg
Boycott OfHousewives
Puis 75,000 Pounds Of
Turkey In Cold Storage
San Francisco. Calif.. Nov. 30. Be
tween 75.040 and 100,000 pounds of
turkey, held by local commission mer
chants, was sent into cold .storage to
day as the result, they said, of an in
dividual boycott by San Francisco
housewives, who showed by few pur
chases that they believed the prevail
ing price of 35 cents a pound too high.
Late yesterday some markets dropped
to 28 cents a pound -when it became
apparent that buyers were maintaining
a "hands off policy toward the
Thanksgiving bird.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER. CO.
RAISES .WAGES. lCPERCENT
' Chicago. 11L. Nov. 38. A ten per cent
Increase, in pay affecting about SSOOO
emplojrs. Is announced by the Inter
national Harvester company.
"Increased wage rates were general
throughout the company's plants last
year," the 'statement says. "During
that period no general Increase was
made to the clerical and other offfte
employes. Therefore, in addition to
normal esalary adjustments, a special
allowance of ten per cent will be made
to the other employes receiving not
more than J?Mn per year, the monthly
aadvance being 520."
The annual payroll of the company
will 'm increased by J 1,000,006.
LOS ANGELES RESTAURANTS
RAISE PRICES 20 PERCENT
Los Angeles, Calif.. Nov. 30. A 20
precent Increase in food and drink
prices is announced by the Los Angeles
Itestaurant Men's Protective associa
tion, representing 941 eating houses. It
is to cro into effect within a week.
Committees were authorized to deter
mine in what manner (be various
classes of places should make the in
crease. Some' expected to eliminate
"free coffee," others to charge ten
cents for a glass of beer, and the cafe
terias to add a penny here and there. -
Association officers said their mem
bers were paying 48 percent increase
over last year for foodstuffs.
11EI1FIEI.D COINSEI.S THRIFT:
S.VVK PAPEIU HE URGES
Washington. D. C Nov. 30. Secre
tary Itedfield of the department of
commerce watched a paper saving
wrapping contest between department
store girls at a theater here. Wednes
day night and made a speech counseling
nation wide thrift that would make the
country independent of foreign paper
manufacturers. He said that one-third
of the 241.009 tons of paper produced
uailv in the United States is wasted.
'Housewives should be taught to save
their newspapers and these should be
collected diligently. Customers should
not Insist on such thorough wrapping
of packages and the wrappings should
not be burned, but saved for paper col
lectors." he said.
1VAT CIIBAPER. POTATOES.
Chattanooga. Tenn.. Nov. 30. The
Chattanooga council of women, repre
senting 0000 members, has appealed to
the municipal commission to appoint a
committee headed by the mayor to pro
cure Irish potatoes for public distribu
tion at "reasonable prices." Potatoes
are selling here at SO cents a peck.
DENVER MILK PRICE RAISED.
Denver. Colo., Nov. 30. Dairymen In
north Denver. Wednesday night an
nounced an Increase in the price of
milk from 7 1-2 cents a quart to S 1-3
ante, effective today. This brings. the
prle up o a uniform standard through
out the fit "
RADIO ACTIVE METAL
FOUND NEAR SOCORRO
Santa Fe. N. 1.. Nov. 30. A deposit
of canary yellow mineral, highly, radio
active, is found in the San Lorenzo can
yon. 15 miles north of Socorro, accord
ing to Prof T. C. Macka, of the State
School of Mines
Heart to Heart
Talk With Parents
fcCEbSlTY is the mother of
IXJ Also "Where there's a will
The membership privileges of tie Y. M. C. A. are a Blightv fine"
thing for the boy in whatever conditions or surroundings he may find him
self. Any Uy who. desire' a membership in the. 1 Paau "Y" ean secure one
very-easily. Ard sourinjr it has iti- own advantages, too. By working for
Hie Herald, securing subscribers, be is developing himself in the science of
salesmanship and the sure way to independence. See H. H. Frfc, the circula
tion manager.
WEATHER FORECASTS.
Kl Paso and Wnt Texas, fair,
wnrnicr. New Mexico, fair. Arizona.
fnlr.
FOURTEEN PAGES TODAY.
Trevino and Murguia May
'Still Trap Enemy, Is the
Belief of Carrancisias.
BANDITSARE IN
CHIHUAHUA CITY
Some Refugees Reach Bor
der But Americans Be
lieved Still In Hiding
BY ASSOCIATED PRESS.
PRESIDIO, Texas, Nov. 30. Report!
on apparently good authority
etate that "Villa has occupied Chi
huahua City and that the de facto gov
ernment forces are moving toward the
border. One division Is reported at Al
dama, 15 miles northeast of Chihuahua
City, and another at Coyame, IS mllea
due west of here.
There is an undercurrent of excite
ment among the Mexican population
across the river from here.
, A message waa received at the mili
tary headquarter "ia-iOJInaga. Wednes
day night; which had been brought
-from Aldama to Coyame by courier and
from there sent to the border by tele
graph. The contents of this message
were not made known, but it is be
lieved to contain certain Information
about the column of de facto troops.
No refugees have yet reached the bor
der here from Chihuahua City. There
was unusual activity reported in the
Ojinaga garrison today.
A FORCE of about Z50 Constitu
tionalists is holding the peniten
tiary In Chihuahua City, aecord
Irg to a report current In Juarez Thurs
day. They are well supplied with am
munition, and it is hoped that they
will be able to hold out until the Joint
forces of Gen. Jacinto B. Trevino and
Gen. Francisco Murguia can retake
the city from the Villlstas.
i "We still have men In Chihuahua
j City," said a Mexican official Thurs
' day afternoon. "We do not deny that
, the Villlstas have entered the town.
but we feel confident that they will
eventually be trapped by the strong
i xorces oi uen. Trevino ana lien. Mur
guia.
A second troop train arrived Thurs
day morning, in Juarez, bearing 500
cavalrymen from Ozuna's command, and
two large and eight small cannon,
t Report Are Conflicting.
From a wealth of Information which
flooded the border Thursday .with the
arrival of troop refugee trains at Jua
rez, it was impossible to ascertain
definitely where tue forces of Gen.
Trevino are, though it was well es
tablished that Francisco Villa cap
tured Chihuahua City Monday morn
ing early and is presumably still in
possession.
One report said part of Trevlso'a
forces were at Coyame and the res;
at Aldama. Another said part of Tre
yino'a forces - came north along the
Mexican Central and the rest went
ye1i,aLons,tne Mexico North Western.
A third said part came north to Sau
and the rest went south to form a
Juncture with Gen. Murguia. Later in
formation was expected to reconcile
these conflicting assertions.
AVounded Troop Reach Juarez.
Wounded Carranza soldiers were seen
early Thursday in a second class pas
senger coach which was In the Juarez
railroad yards. On a number or flat
cars in the same yards" were seen
field pieces, which are believed to have
been brought from the south by Gen.
Francisco Gonzales when he returned
late Wednesday night on his special
train from the vicinity of Sauz. The
wounded were brought north to the
border at the same time. Hospital sup
plies were hurried to an improvised
Red Cross car Thursday and Mexican
physicians were in attendance on the
wounded.
A train was being made up In the
Juarez ards to go south. It is expected
to bring additional refugees and
wounded soldiers to the border.
Villa Holds City. Refugees Sny.
Ten Syrian refugees who arrived here
early today on a train from Sauz re
ported Villa in possession of Chlhua
(Contlnned on Pace S. Column S.
invention," is an old and true saying.
there's a war.'
1 WllWbW
lie
NORTH
4
