"PIT "FTP
T
H FM A T M
LL.Jl. 11 A JOyaM o
3
YOUJIfJ ST.
C00OYILLE, TENKSSSE1, THUESDAT, XOYIMBEH 80. 1916.
NUMBEB 48
J a
D
TRAVELERS' AID
Baa) and Scop.
BT GERTRUDE WHITNEY
Willi Terr new to many, Travelers'
Aid work la really one of the oldest
charities, (or does the Bible not ad
monish that we be mindful of the
"stranger within our gates T" To be-
oo me a Travelers Aid. training, which
oonslsts of courses In the Bible, so
cial service, good housing, hygiene
and first aid, is necessary. The
watchword of the Travelers' Aid So
ciety Is "protection from danger and
reventlon of crime" for travelers,
especially women, girls and boys
alone. -
Travelers' Aid Societies are now
definitely organized in. considerably
over one hundred cities which have
regularly employed workers1. There
aire also probably on thousand differ
ent cities and towns which we caa
count on for co-operation,
All persons, American or foreign, of
whatever race, age, creed, class or
sex are helped solely on the ground
of their necessity. The basiB of the
work is entirely non-sectarian. It
not only protects from danger but
shields from temptations whleh are
vicious morally, physically and finan
cially. It conserves the morals and
future usefulness of thousands of
young people every year, and is the
timely prevention which makes res
cue un-necessary.
Mr. Mullanphy of St. Louis showed
his recognition of the great work
done by reaching individuals before
there is need of rescue in making his
will and endowing a society known
as the "Mullanphy Travelers' Aid Bu
reau" for the purpose of carrying on
the work; and while most cities are
paying from fifty to sixty dollars a
month to their workers, the St. Louis
Aids receive one thousand and twelve
hundred dollars a year.
In Buffalo the Travelers' Aids are
employed by the Y. W. C. A., which
more than ever makes It a connecting
vrk 'between, young people coming
into a strange city and the church.
In Buffalo alone during the month of
August the Aids assisted over two
thousand women and ' children to
trains, in locating friends, in secur
ing rooms in respectable hotels and
rooming houses, and In many ways
which ate classed miscellanous. Hun
dreds are passing thru Buffalo in the
care of other Travelers' Aid Societies
who hand their card with name and
description to our Aid to be signed
and mailed , by her to the Society
.from' which, they, .had come. An in
stance of the co-operation between
Travelers' Aids in different cities is
shown in this case.v
The day of the Preparedness Pa
rade a young girl of some sixteen
years of age disappeared from the
factory where-she was working. All
efforts to locate her by her heart
broken parents employes of the de
tectives seemed futile until one day
the Supt. of the Co. found in some
.way that she was some fourteen
miles from a Pennsylvania city. He
came to me and asked If I could sug
gest some way to get her without
using police force. I wired a Travel
ers' Aid In that city asking her it she
would get the girl, put her on the
train and wire me when the girl
started for Buffalo. She answered'
promptly that she would, but later
wired that she was holding the girl
subject to our orders because of the
fact that a married man insisted up
on coming with her. We wired her
to let them come and notified the po
lice. When they reached Buffalo
the man was taken into custody on
the Mann Act. This is not. the only
young girl this man has carried
away to a life of sorrow and shame;
and the Company, detective force and
Press were loud in their praise of the
cooperation of the Philadelphia and
Buffalo Travelers' Aids and their help
in returning -this girl to her home
and bringing the man to justice.
Other cases in point are these, 'and
show the variety of people needing
beln and their wants: One night a
well dressed' young lady of about
eighteen came to me crying"and say
ing she was suffering from inflama
f ion of the bowels and wanted to
go to a hospital, and would I please
for money (or ber to go betik borne.
This was sent by telegraph money
order and I went with her to the main
office where she received the money,
purchased her ticket and went back
home wiser and happier.
Recently a bride of three days das
brought in from the train uncon
scious. I immediately brought a phy
sician who was In tha. station, ho
found it necessary to give a hyper
dermic at once in order to bring up
ner neart action. She waa unable to
resume the Journey for several hours
but was a most ' interesting and
charming patient It was hard to tell
which suffered more the bride or the
young husband. Her chief concern
waa the fact that their delay would
prevent them from reaching home .in
time for a reception being given for
them that night
some time ago a young girl came
into the Leigh Station and sank into
a seat crying as if her' heart would
break. I enquired the cause only to
hear "I wired my father I'd be home
on this train and the conductor says
it doesn't stop at my home." There
was just ten minutes to spare but in
that time I found the trainman and
we in turn found the conductor who
wired the Supt. and got a permit to
stop at Tunkhannock and let the lit
tle lady off to meet her father be
tween one and two o'clock in the
night. As she .stepped aboard the
train she smiled thru her tears and
thanked me.
One lady who bad a hemmorhage
of the nose showed ber appreciation
by sending me a beautiful purse upon
ner arrival at home.
Then there is a funny side to the
work If one has a "funny-bone". Take
for instance these questions:
"Are you the Travelers Belief?"
"What time Is the 6:35 train due?"
"Have you a Y. M. C. A. for girls
here?''
An Indian girl came up to me at
the Erie Station and said, "Will you
tag me around." I said "Do you
want me to?", and' upon hearing
Yes" I asked where she wanted to
be 'tagged', and when she said to the
stores I realized she wanted me to
take her shopping. The eternal femi
nine! -
As is my custom, I asked an Italian
woman if I could do anything for ber
to which she said "Phwat?" I either
said-do you want anything," only to
hear "Phwat you got.?" .
At the New York Central a woman
asked, "Is that tha stairway to the
trains?" Upon being told that it was
she said "How do you get down?" I
replied, "Usually people walked but
that occasionally one fell, which call
ed for a Travelers' Aid with arnica
and bandages."
It is in the unexpected difficulties
that arise incident to travel that
women and children need help. The
unscrupulous Und newly arrived stran
gers easiest to ensnare.
Common dangers are wrong ad
dresses, lost directions, or none at all.
One evening at about ten o'clock an
old lady came in from one of the
trains and said she had come to visit
her son who was a fireman in Buffalo
HONOR ROLL OF CITY SCHOOL
FOR 1ST. QUARTER SESSION
High, grace
1st Grade Carrie
Wheat
In the 2nd. 3rd. and 4th. Grades no
one made the average.
6th. Grade Eleanor Halle.
6th. Grade Elton Lowman, Hazel
Wait
7th. Grade Emma Dome Jenkins.
8th. Grade Thelma Rogers. EJiia-
oeth Wilson. Mabel Pierce.
To make honor roll Is one of the
greatest honors to be received from
City School. The reaulrementa era
1st That the student average 96 per
cem. on eacn suDject pursued. 2,
conduct muev-be entirely satisfac
tory, a. 'mere must be no tardies
or absences not cancelled by points
above 95 per cent on some study.
M. T. CARLISLE. Supt.
- CITY SCHOOL NOTES '
Last week to the City School Notes
I stated that we had nine teachera
in our school. I want to say that it
is 10 that , we have. In giving a list
of names of -r faculty tnUnl to
mention , the name of Miss Bessie
Selby who is one of our best teach
ers. I have known her work else
where to prove Just as satisfactorily
as In the City School. Thanking the
Herald for allowing me to correct the
mistake, I am,
HERMAN MAYBERRY.
HOLLADAY SCHOOL NOTES
By Lee Carr.
'The Holladay School iax still pro
gressing nicely with one hundred en
rolled. Everyone seems interested lu
school work. .
The Holladay Literary Society
meets every Friday afternoon. A
very interesting question was dis
cussed last meeting: Resolved: That
the negroes have been more cruelly
treated than, the Indians. . The affirm
ative side won.
The Holladay School and Lee Semi
nary Bunaay school is preparing a
Thanksgiving program to be given at
Lee Seminary. We desire the at
tendance of all the patrons
The pupils of Holladay School set
apart Nov. 11th for planting trees
The day was beautiful and several
trees were planted.
Holladay School will soon be pre
pared to care for the stock of stu
dents Who ride to school, as a barn
is being constructed.
MIbb Margaret McKenzie and Miss
Willie Alcorn visited Holladay last
Wednesday. Miss McKenzie came
for the purpose of organizing a To
mato Club. '
We are glad to note that most of
Me pupils who have been absent are
back In school,
The pupils of Mr. McCulleys room
took advantage of the splendid offer
of Colgate & Co.
The pupils were requested to write
an essay on the Teeth.
Following is the . winning essay,
written by Miss Jessie Taylor of the
7th. Grade
The Teeth
The teeth begin to anoear when a
but she was so bewildered she had child is about six months old, and at
forgotten his address. I looked in aDOut the age of six years these teeth
the city directory but could find no
fireman of the name she mentioned,
I then called up headquarters to see
begin to get loose, caused by new
teeth coming under these and push
ing them out. At about ten years of
if they knew of such a fireman, but a)re the last set of teeth have apnear-
they did not Finally she explained ed. Th first set Is called tempora
that he was a fireman on the N. Y. ry( the second set is called perma
Central Ry. I accordingly sent to the ' nent. The teeth . are divided into
yards only to find that he had gone tw oparts. The part below the gum
out on his run but a friend gave his j i8 the root and the ' part above the
address. She felt sur this was not gum Is the crown. The crown is corn
right and was not willing to go there, posed of pulp, dentine, and enamel is
I suggested taking her to the Y. W,
C. A. for the night thinking after a
good sleep her mind would be clearer.
She refused to leave the station, how-
the covering of the teeth.
The teeth are a very important
part of the body. If we .didn't have
teeth we couldn't grind 'our food as
ever, so I fixed her up with a pillow : it should be ground and our stomachs
and blanket, where she slept until , would be worn out in a little, while,
morning; while her son came for her , Chewing the food gets it in a condit
as soon as he came -in from his run Hon so the digestive Juices can digest
and was notified that hjs mother was the food quickly, and as our teeth
there. . i have such an important use we should
Another case of a young lady, -a Ca- take the best care of them we possi-nadian-
came in one morning with bly can. Some good rules on care of
a little Doy some iour or nve yen the teem are: i. nave a aentiBt
old
STORY TELLERS LEAGUE
As was previously announced. Mrs.
Cora Cox Lucas waa In charge of
story Hour last' Friday.
A number of visitors were present
to near Mrs. Lucas give a talk on
Schumann, and hear her play many
or mm neauurui child scenes.
Mrs. Casey of Nashville also sang
two oeauuiui muaoys, accompanied
oy urs. w. a. Howard. -
Both these musicians are artists of
ugh class and CookevilU children
are to be congratulated on having the
rare opportunity ox hearing them.
COUNTY UNION POSTPONED
to county Farmers Union to
meet at Oak Grove consolidated
echoolhouse the second Saturday in
Deo. Is postponed until the third
Saturday. Dec. 16,-1915, at 10 o'clock
a, m... with the following program:
Welcome Address; M. L. Fan-is.
An Ideal Community, Jesse Gilliam.
The Benefit of Community Co-ope
ration, Blair Harrison.
An Address by Prof J. M. Hat
field, and other short talks.
We hope to have a full represen
tation from the Locals. The public
invited to hear these talks.
H. D. McCULLEY. Pres., ,
B. C. HUDDLEC TON, Sectv.
CHURCH OF CHRIST
There will be preaching at the
Church of Christ Sunday. December
3 at 11 a. m. and 7 p. m. by S. P.
Pittman of the Nashville Bible School
He will present a very Interesting
subject to alt
PRAI8E SERVICE PROGRAM
Praise and thank offering service of
the Missionary Society at First Pres
byterian Church, Sunday evening,
Dec. 3rd, at 7 o clock.
Doxology ....
Scripture Reading and Prayer
Dr. Coile.
Music .Miss Von Bockern.
Greeting Mrs. T. FInley.
Reading Mrs. R. H. Harding.
Reading Mrs. Carlisle.
Music Quartet of Mixed Voices
Thanksgiving Story Mrs. Q. Dyer
Music Flute Solo by Prof. Netto.
Talk Mrs. Smith.
Thank Offering ,
Pageant By. Juniors.
M. E. CHURCH, 80UTH
Rev. It J. Craig will preach Sun
day mornitfg, Dec. 3, on "A Yearning
God." The Sunday night service as
usual will be evangelistic and will
begin promptly at 7:00 o'clock. Ev
erybody will be welcome to attend
both services.
The regular monthly . communion
will be held at the close of the ser
vice, Sunday morning.
The Epworth League was delight
ed to have Prof. C. D. Daniel, .of T,
P. I. address the meeting Sunday
night. His topic was "Friendship"
and it was a very beneficial discus
sion of true friendship, that of man
toward man. and man .towards Christ
The League is endeavoring to have
something of value and Interest at
every meeting, ana begins promptly
at 6:15 p. m.
A well attended meeting of the
board of Stewards was held at the
oarsonage Tuesday nignt.
The first quarterly conrerence win
be held Dec. 11, and the presiding
elder. Rev. H. B. Blue, will preach
Sunday night Dec. 10.
FIRST PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH
At the First Presbvterian Church
next Sunday morning the Pastor, Key.
A. J. Coile will preach on the subject.
iMy Father's Business!" At night
the Annual Praise service of the Wo
man's Missionary Society will be
held. A cordial welcome awaits all
who will come. , ' i
J. W. GILLEM NOT MOVING
Some one has been reporting that
W. Glllem was moving-his grocery
store to the country, but such Is not
the case. Mr. Glllem Is still at the
8eeinar she was at a loss what exaniine th teeth two or three timps same old place and is putting in a
to do I interrogated ner only to nna, year and remove or fill any decay- bigger cza -me oi groceries,
that she expected 16 be sd t the, hi twU. . uiuoi .mi -tiieiuI -cu!cu etc., than he has
grandfather of the little boy, who teeth thoroughly at least three times
was not related to her. She did not a day with a stiff brush and warm
remember the grandfathers address water or some kind of good tooth
nor his name. She remembered his powder or paste. 3. Don't pick the
phone and make arrangements with j street but not hlB number. She said teeth with pins, but instead a soft
the hospital for a private room for ' his name was something like "Go-far, wooden tooth pick. 4. Don't put
her. She was suffering so intensely that was all she knew. I called up very hot or very cold substances in
I was glad to do it for her and after information to see if there waa a par- the mouth. 5. Don't bite any hard
making the arrangements got a taxi j ty on that St. by a name anything substances and crack nuts with the
and sent her with a nurse to the Jiob- ; like that. They said not. I then teeth. If hard substances are bitten
pita!. On the steps of the hospital suggested that she place the little the enamel Is apt to crack and let
she became a mother. Only anoth-, boy on the radiator in order that the air and particles of food get into
er case of a poor misled girl! when, the grandfather came in he the tooth and when air or anything
Another young lady came here to, might recognize him only to hear, gets to the nerves a violent ache sets
meet her betrothed; he had failed to "He has never seen. him." She didn't up and will sometimes give much
I even know whether he knew wnicn trouble. So always taxe the Deet pos
appear and after two days of waiting
the Travelers'- Aid wired her people
station she would arrive at or not.
In desperation I suggested that she
take the boy back to Toronto, but
she said his parents had' closed their
bouse and gone to the. eea-snore, ana
sible care of Ujeteeth.
ever had, and is preparing for a big
Christmas trade.
WHY SUFFER SOT
Why suffer from a bad back, from
sharp, shooting twinges, headaches,
dizziness and distressing urinary ills?
Cookeville people recommend Doan'B
Kdney Pills. Could you ask for
stronger proof of merit?
T. A. Roberson, farmer, Route No. 1
Monterey, Tenn., sayfe: "My kidneys
gave me a lot of trouble and I had
a dull ache In my back and Bboulders.
I couldn't rest well and was so lame
and stiff mornings that I could hard
ly get around.. The kidney secretions
passed irregularly ana most or me
time were profuse. Colds settled on
my kidneys and Iw as bothered by
rheumatic twinges. When I read of
Dean's Kidney Pills, I used them and
they gave me great relief."
Pr'ce-T?" t ? . -v r-. Don't
simply ask. for a kidney remedy get
Doans 'Kidney Pills the same that
Mr. Roberaon had. Foeter-Milburn
Co, Props., Buffalo. N. Y.
m. itwnatlun'ma tsJxA m.nA x.J-rn but She for NOW reason aw UVl warn ,
saastrangHyning toodand pracroa hlm to know. She aid she had an.
tame to add nchDCN to ber tuooc Unci who la a barber In Buffalo and i
and bete up her mmrm befora St tf ",,7 I
il m. cwvmneAi . help her. I went to an Italian bal
sa wo amm. n a i x.. .h tn km tf I ooold cet any n-
. t.tvii Atom the Unel bat eould
j mot I then called p the "Barbers I
eaatuBed to xext pc
today- fesfattnsb woddhride.
NoAIcohoL
kill
u rr i
III I II MM
STOCKHOLDERS MEETING
The stockholders - of Cookeville
Hnm Telenhnnn Co. will meet in the
a .1 . a nouse ana gvats u uie nwouum, j- -
F-lnrhenra nnenriincr wnrlr nnd . Mn ,. adremi whii Chancery Court room at the court-
devotion drains and strains hex waiting to plan some way to help house VtSon2aS9itfCT
? . i tiT j them the young lady came up and m- Saturday,. Dec. a, 1916. The
physical Strength and leaves Baid. "There is a man that looks like hoard of directors desire all th Atock-
mark in dimmed eyes and the picture of cnare.; 5"'-"!" p. bKSes; p.
careworn eznressions she T-'fa? -Tiime ' b. c huddleston. secty.
a"e IWnrp hr time. hoy. He replied that he was. I took
Sef Deiore ner u, him over to the child and when he
?r?r?mfr weeks later going home quite happy. I kCC(Ll V V JLL.lVllClI UoUll Z
Sf f f HIM II V I Lost tickets and lost pocxet doom
I UNI I II Nl ;are another common problem. One'
, VVJi J jj brirM afternoon this aummer a young j
HH"f " mouuer wiui iiu ouu --
daughter, all splendidly dressed, bat
m tears, come to me to expuun uai .
she had lost her silver pure with her i
.R, R. ticket and $20.00 in it 1 sug-
C? ECSWICLW CCD UVEIl CIL Tusband ln lv lk h7r
THE GAME THAT WASNT
PLAYEO
Tennessee Tech. advertised two
amea for last) Saturday and waa
able to play only one. That the
W,U1 "entry waa most Interest-
muK?..ne anjM- That the game
with Livingston would have been
more interesting no one doubts.
But fate decreed that there should be
no SUCh game. For thin naithar n.
lngston nor Tennessee Tech waa to
viaine. waa fllmnlv diiA to m. u.
iea ox aaxomoDiia miahana that mm
not be avoided. Both teams aa well
as spectators are to be congratulated
on the good snirit shown in th fri
of such disappointment aa all evident
ly eiu
Tennessee Tech nlnna tn nt .
free game at some time . during the
basket ball season to mik un tnr
the free game advertised in th two
ana one proposition. Clean athletics
ana reliable advertising la th slo
gan of the management at T P r
and everything possible will be done
to always make good, on anything
this institution offers.
Both the school bova and tha rww-
pie oi ine town aooreciate tha Afrn-
or uvingston to give the T. P.
noys a: game at Livingston to make
up for 'the dlsarrsclsti.iM-jf of Batn.
day and it is hoped that such game
can ne arranged.
- SIMS WEST
A wedding that came as a sunrise
to their many friends was that of
Miss Flossie West of this city and
xar. Tanx u. Mima or Gallatin, Tenn.,
at the home of the bride's Barents.
Mr. and Mrs. J. C. West, 115 Church
bu, last Saturday at 3 o'clock p. m,
Rev. E. A. Cate officiating Only i
few relatives and frinds wer oresent.
The home was artistically decorated
with ferns and Autumn flowers. The
bride was attired In blue chiffon
broadcloth with hat and gloves to
harmonize, and carried a bouquet of
oriaea roses and lilies of the valley.
ene is one oi cooawviile'a most pepr
lar and accomplished yonng ladies
Mr. SimB is a prominent young busi
ness man of .Gallatin. -
After Dec 1st. they will be at
home to their friends at Gallatin,
Tenn.
MUSI, CTREAT ENJOYED
Cookeville has been enjoying a se
ries or musical treats given bv Mrs,
Kenneth Cayce of Nashville, vocalist,
Airs, uora vox Lucas or south Car
Una, pianist and Mrs. W. A. Howard
of Cookeville, accompanist.
A morning program was given at
the Tennessee Polytechnic Institute,
and an afternoon musicale at the City
school, and an elaborate evening
program at the City school auditori
um by 4hese talented musicians.
LITTLE BOY KILLED -
Last Friday morninAJames Bll-
brey. little eon of Mtf and Mrs.
Taylor Bilbrey, who live a mile out
of town, was killed by falling from
a mule he was riding. His foot
caught In the trace chain and the
mule ran away, the boys body being
badly bruised and many bones brok
en a& he was dragged over the
ground by the frightened animal.
SALE OF MULES
Anybody wanting to get some good
uules at their own price should
came to the sale Saturday, Dec. 2, at
Wall's Sale Barn. The mules have
been raised by J. H. Jared & Son, and
they will sell them on twelve months
time, with note of approved security,
or one-fourth cash, title to remain
with owners. .
NO RATES GIVEN
The T. C. Railroad Co. having re
fused so far to give us any cut rates
on transportation to the Middle Ttn
nessee Farmers Institute which mepts
in NaBhvllle, Dec. 6, 7, and 8, on ac
count of said road yet being In the
hands or tne receivers. All larmera
desiring to attend this meeting will
have to pay the regular fare, unleiH
they yet give us rttes. The Supt.
promised me to give us the best
rates they could, but have heard no
more from him. f '
B. C. HUDDLESTON, Cc Chrn.
Mt View Lodge No. 179 I O O F
met at the uoual hour, 7 P. M., Nov.
25th. 1916. D. E. Slagle. N. G. presid
lng, with a good atjendsuce. Quite
a lot of routine business waa disposed
of. Another week. Just passed, in
which no benefits was due to be paid,
it being the 2nd week for a period of
pve years In which no benefit m
due to be paid, a fact that ia truly
gratifying to the Lodge. The 2nd.
degree was conferred upon one appli
cant The 3rd degree will be con
ferred at our next meeting.
Bra Jno. L. Lee had the misfortune
to be thrown from a wagon a week
ago, falling on the back of his neck
and shoulders, coming very - near
breaking his neck, fortunately, he
escaped with only severe bruises. He
is yet unable to stir about, however,
but is improving. The election of
officers occurs at our next meeting,
Dec. 2, 1916.- All members that can
should be in attendance and partici
pate In the election and then attend
the Lodge often and assist the offi
cers, etc.
CURTIS M. BUCK .
The following resolutions were
adopted by Mt View Lodge No. 179.
L O. O. f. of Cookeville, relative to
the death of Curtic M. Buck.
"Curtis M. Buck was initiated as a
member of Mt. View Lodge No. 179
O. O. F. of Cookeville. Tenn.. on
Dec. 1. 1900, and until his death at
his home near Cookeville on Oct. 29. '
1916 he was a loyal and devoted
member of our Order.
For several years poor health had
prevented him from regularly attend
ing the lodge meetings, but at all
timed he manifested hia interest and
deep concern In the work of the lodge
and the progress of our order. .
Brother Buck was an honest man.
He lead an exemplary life. He was
devoted to his family and his friends.
He loved Odd Fellowship.
Therefore be it resolved, that we,
his brethren of Mount View Lodge,
deeply . deplore the death of this our
brother. We shall ever treasure the
pleasures of our associations with
him in the work of our lodge, and we
extend to his widow and children our
heartfelt sympathy in their sorrow.
Further belt resolved, that a page
of our minutes be set apart to 'his
memory, and that a copy of these
resolutions be forwarded to bin
widow. Fraternally submitted.
ERNEST H. BOYD,
J. H. McCULLEY,
W. H. BARR,
Committee.
ALGOOD CIRCUIT NOTES
Prer ching at Shipley Sunday morn
ing, Dec, 3, by the pastor, F. B. Cox. - .
ALBERT MASON v HARRIS
TURER AT T. P. I.
L EC-
Impersonates . "The Fortune Hunter"
First of A Series o Lectures To Be
Given Thla Winter
-For-
FARM AND CITY PROPERTY I
I have a number, of good farms for fa i.- 1 can f how you
better than I can tell cu. If you want to buy, ttt mt. -
v I al have a nuralx r of Houses and Lots in Coeke Tills and
Alirood for gale and iftink 1 can suit ju. If )u "wSfct to
sell, list with me and I'll do the rect.
See me for all kirids ftf Insurance at d Bcr.df,
I J. W. Richardson,. GobkeviHe,Tenn. J
On last Friday evening Albert Ma
son Harris, instructor In Oratory at
Vanderbilt University, highly enter
tained a large audience with his ex
cellent presentation- of "The Fortune
Hunter". Mr. Harris was f slated by
several feplendld musical elections
rendered by local talent
The next lecture of this . ries win
be Prof. Gub Dyer's "Ma: 'age. Di
vorce and the Home", whi', will be
given Friday evening, Decent .r lMh.
' SPECIAL MATINEE
At the Strand Saturday afternoon
bealnnina- at S o'clock, a special
Matinee will be given for the benefit
of the Rest Room. An an extra fea
ture Mr. Joel Barnes will give seve
ral vocal selections. This ahow
should receive a liberal patronage, aa
It to given to help a good work along.
CHURCH OF CHRIST
J. D. Guan of Sparta will preach
at Al rood next Sunday, Dee. 9. both
xoomlng and evening. Everybody ln
vtted to bear him.
MOMTRV
We Are haying eome alee- fall wea
ther at present , Gathering' orn
eeems to be the erder of the day it1
present '
Some of yoa writer on Route One
wake ap and gtve as the news.
Well, 1 will close by asking all of
the Herald readers to remember e
oa th 19ta of Deeemaer, and od
ae a card. I will not tell bow old
1 am, bat am between 37 and M and
the aae gaeeeing my age will veeeive
a surprise. Address all earda to
MalUe Swack, Monterey, Teaa ft. 1
CARD OF THANK8
We wish to thank the people of
Cookeville for their kind assistance
and patronage of the play presented
at the City School Tuesday night
for the benefit of the Ladies Rest
Room at Sparta.
Rest Room Committee,
Mrs. J. R. Lee, Chm., Sparta.
MONTEREY, ROUTE 2
Health is very good in. our neigh
borhood, except bad colds and they
are very common.
The writer went over to Calfkiller
and spent a week with her, sisters
and relatives.
Say, James Lee, what has become
of yout Have you lost your, pencil,
as you have quit writing to the Her
ald, i
Hurrah, for Mollie Dahuff, she haa
not forgotten to write to the Herald.
Haywood Johnson, have you mov-
ed.or what's the matter that you don't
write to the Herald t uuess you
have lost your pencil, too. Do yoa
remember when you worked at the
spoke mill in the Tays Hollow. I
still remember how to play, the ban
Jo. Ezekiel Stamps visited Bill Swack's
last Friday night,
Say, Mary Lou Farley, we are look-,
ing for you some day. ,
Fannie Stamps and Ada Randolph,
I am looking for a letter from you.
iHollis Mllligan and family visited
Mr. Joe Swack's last Sunday. .
I will close by asking all of the
Herald readers, schoolmates, rela
tives, ntrantrers. all. to remember me
on the 19th day of January, and send
me a birthday, card. I will not state
how old I am, but somewhere between-
13 and 16. All carda will be answer
ed and highly appreciated. - Address
to Miss Maggie Swack, Monterey,
Tenn., Route 2. .
Absolutely Puro
Lkia frcn Cren cf Tcrfcr
J. aM
V
v..
A
b4 .
.
