Hi
Mrs. Heidel Is Quoted
in Indianapolis News
In its report of the W. C. T. U. na
tional convention the Indianapolis
News has the following to say of the
address of Mrs. F. W. Heidel, whose
work on Sabbath observance is attract
ing national attention:
With national prohibition almost
within sight, the automobile and the
Sunday moving picture show today
came in for censure when Mrs. F. W.
Heidel, national superintendent of the
Sabbath Observance department of the
W. C. T. U., addressed the convention
in Murat theater. Mrs. Heidel is from
Valley City, N. D. Among other things
she said:
"Good can be said of the automobile
in its relation to Sabbath breaking.
Although it has received its share of
censure as a means of Sabbath break
ing, unlike the saloon, however, good
can be said of it. When our Christian
people learn to guide it aright, in more
ways it will help to spread our good
work than it has done now.
"The Sunday movies have been con
demned as not contributing in many
cases to a healthy atmosphere or a
well-kept Sunday, so many have been
closed by petition or retors to law.
"This department very properly be
longs to an organization fighting the
liquor traffic. The saloon is the most
prolific source of Sabbath desecration.
Through its wide open front door, or
open side door on Sunday, go so many
of our laboring men who are fortunate
to have this day from their work, with
the result that their bodies are less fit
for their labor on Monday than if they
had been held to their work.
"During the year just closing 1,282,
013 pages of the depiartment literature
have been distributed 13,683,830 cop
ies of secular papers have carried a
message on Sabbath observance to as
many adults, and 119,372 adults have
signed a pledge to observe the Sabbath
as a day of rest and worship, to neith
er purchase nor patronize Sunday
newspapers, to. use their influence
against Sunday travel and excursions,
not to patronize any store on Sunday
(except for medicine), not to send or
call for mail on the Lord's day, to
make Sunday work light at home and
to work for legislation protecting the
Sabbath."
Women of City Clubs
Establish Loan Fund
President McFarland is in receipt of
a check for one hundred dollars as a
gift of the Tuesday, Sheyenne, Sorosis
and Women's Clubs to be used as a
Student Loan Fund for girls.
Because of the courtesy extended by
the Normal school to the State Federa
tion of Women's Clubs at their recent
meeting. Mrs. Leo Straus, chairman
of finance of the local board, suggest
ed that the money remaining in the
treasury after all bills were paid
should be given as a Student Loan
Fund No. 2, for the use of women only.
This" fund is established "in order
that the women may feel a more per
sonal interest in the girls and as a
stimulus for further gifts."
Let Contract (or Standard
Oil Co.'s Distributing Plant
The contract for the $50,000 dis
tributing plant of the Standard Oil
Co.'s plant, to be built in Carrington,
has been awarded to W. H. Carson,
the New Rockford contractor. Work
is now in progress and Mr. Carson
has a crew of mfn now doing the
work. The work will be pushed as
rapidly as the weather conditions will
permit, and as much of the work as
possible will be done yet this fall.
The building wil be of brick and con
crete and modern in every respect.
FATHER'S DEATH REPORTED
The Misses Anna and Clara John
son received a telegram from their
brother Monday morning which con
veyed the understanding that their
lather, O. Johnson, had died on a
train going into St. Paul. No further
particulars have been received as yet.
WE'VE GOT 103,002,000
Washington, Nov. 25.—The popula
tion of continental United States has
passed the hundred and three million
mark. Officials of the treasury de
partment in their monthly money cir
culation statement estimated that on
Nov. 1 the population of the country
was 103,002,000.
Monday, Dec. 4 th. $60.00 for
the round trip, including berth,
meals and auto trips. Cheaper
__ than staying at home. See the
VOL. XXXVIII—NO. 35 (Official County Paper) VALLEY CITY, NORTH DAlKOTA, THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 1916.
North Dakota Debt is
But 65 Cents Per Capita
Every North Dakota man, woman,
child and baby old enough to be con
sidered population owes 65 cents as
his or her share of the state's total
indebtedness. Terrible, isn't it, with
skirts and shoes and everything elsa
the families wear or eat or look at
mounting higher and higher each day?
Eut, just suppose'n you lived in
Massachusetts. Then your public
debts would be $35,62, and so would
your wife's, and little Johnnie's and
Elizabeth's and in the family of six or
seven children would be somewhai
considerable.
Oregon is probably the only state in
the northwest whose per capita public
debt is less than that of North Dako
ta. In 1915, census report on sucn
matters, Oregon's indebtedness per
each was only 32 cents. North Dako
ta's per capita indebtedness at the be
ginning of 1915 was $1.10 but by the
end of the year it had been reduced to
78 cents per capita and during 1916 a
still further reduction was made,
bringing the present per capita debt
down to 65.55 cents, to be somewhat
exact.
Massachusetts owes more per capita
than any other state in the union. The
per capita debt for the group of New
England states averages $22.17 for
the east north central states, the per
capita obligation is $2.53, and for the
west north central $1.16.
At the beginning of 1915, Uncle Sam
found that North Dakota's total debt
was 771,228, of which $578,700 was rep
resented by bonds. The net indebted
ness at the end of 1915 was $548,366
and through the action of the state
board of university and school land
and the state auditing board taken
this week, the total bonded debt is cut
down to $472,000.
Per Capita Wealth
Large in America
Washington, Nov. 25.—The govern
ment report show that each man,
woman and child have $9.28 based up
on the amount of gold circulated. Over
$4,000,000,000 worth has been circulat
ed which is an increase of $454,000,
000 worth over 1915.
MOTHER DIES IN BOSTON
The death of Mrs. Rebekah Smith,
mother of A. C. Smith, of this city, oc
curred Nov. 16 at Boston, Mass. Mrs.
Smith was 79 years old, and death re
sulted from old age. She visited '.n
Valley City a year ago last June, and
had been failing in health during the
past year. Mrs. Smith also lived hire
about eight years ago, and while in
Valley City made a host of friends.
She was a beautiful Christian charac
ter, greatly beloved by all who knew
her. During her visits here she was
an attendant at the Epworth M. E.
church and will be remembered here
especially by the members of that
church. At Boston, Mrs. Smith made
her home with her daughter, Mrs. H.
P. Holway.
ENTERTAINED THE CHOIR
The choir of the Lutheran Free
church, consisting of about 20 mem
bers, was pleasantly entertained Mon
day night at the parsonage. The eve
ning was spent visiting and a general
good time was had. Great plans were
also made for special songs and music
during the coming holidays. At the
close of the evening delicious refresh
ments were served by the hostess. It
was past 11 o'clock when the guests
departed and all felt that they had
spent a very pleasant evening.
Binford Times: The teachers re
turned Saturday and Sunday from at
tending the N. D. E. A. at Fargo. Miss
Kjelland visited at her home near Val
ley City on Saturday.
City and County Fared Well
Valley City and Barnes county far
ed well in the election of officers at
the recent meeting of the North Da
kota Education Association. Miss
Minnie Nielson was elected a mem
ber of the executive committee for
four years, O. A. Barton was made
president of the rural section, while
R. C. Mueller was elected secretary of
the modern languages section: In ad
dition to this Normal professors and
graduates got offices in a number of
sections.
Excursion to Texas
Valley City Land Co.
THE WEEKLY TIMES-RECORD
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
Mandan Gets Next
Dairymen's Meet
Mandan, Nov. 25.—Mandan has
been awarded the annual conventions
of the North Dakota Dairymen's asso
ciation and the annual Livestock as
sociation auction sale.
Definite dates for the two events
have not been fixed, but they will
take place in January.
Crop for 1917 Depends
on Climatic Conditions
Fargo, Nov. 27.—Climatic conditions
next spring, as affecting the germina
tion of seeds, will tell the 1917 crop
story.
Proclamation by President
That the farmers are well supplied
with seed grains, that they have a
great quantity of fall plowing com
pleted, and that they are in readiness
generally to take advantage of satis
factory spring weather conditions, is
the information that comes to Fargo
from almost every section of the state.
Only in isolated districts—such, for
instances, as the flooded out portions
of the southeast, and the regions in
the north end that were hit by an un
usually early snowfall ,are backward
in the matter of fall plowing.
Seed tests conducted by Professor H.
L. Bolley at the North Dakota Agricul
tural college, have indicated that the
seed wheat, despite the fact that much
of it is shriveled, possesses higher ger
minating qualities than might be an
ticipated.
These tests are made by M. Bolley
as state pure seed commissioner, and
the expense is paid by the state. Any
farmer who wishes a report on his
seed is provided with the information,
the experiment station conducting the
tests and giving a faithful report,
showing the germinating percentage,
etc.
Washington, Nov. 18.—President Willson, by proclamation yester
day, formally designated Thursday, Nov. 30, as Thanksgiving day.
Here follows the president's proclamation:
"It long has been the custom of our people to turn, in the fruitful
autumn of the year, in praise and thanksgiving to Almighty God for
His many blessings and mercies to us and the nation.
"The year that has elapsed since we last observed our day of thanks
giving has been. rich in blessings to us as a people, but the whole face
of the world has been darkened by war. In the midst of our peace
and happiness, our thoughts dwell with painful disquiet upon the
struggles and sufferings of the nations at war, of the peoples upon
whom war has brought disaster without choice or possibility of es
cape on their part. We cannot think of our own happiness without
thinking of their pitiful distress.
It is expected that the farmers next
spring will plant their wheat a bit
more shallow than ordinarily, because
of the lesser germinating power. This
will give the sprouts easier access to
the surface, and insure better growth.
APPOINTS DAY
"Now, therefore, I, Woodrow Wilson, president of the United
States of America, do appoint Thursday, the 30th of November, as a
day of national thanksgiving and prayer, and urge and advise the
people to resort to their several places of worship on that day to ren
der thanks to Almighty God for the blessings of peace and unbroken
prosperity which He has bestowed upon our beloved country in such
instinted measures.
"And I also urge and suggest our duty in this, our day of peace and
abundance, to think in deep sympathy of the stricken peoples of the
world, upon whom the curse and terror of war has fallen so pitilessly,
and to contribute out of our abundant means to the relief of their
sufferings.
"Our people could in no better way show their real attitude toward
the present struggle of the nations than by contributing out of
their abundance to the relief of the suffering which war has brought.
"In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the
seal of the United States to be affixed.
"Done at the City of Washington this 16th day of November, in the
year of our Lord 1916, and of the independence of the United States
the 141st. WOODROW WILSON.
"By the President: ROBERT LANSING, Secretary of State."
if in doubt where to do your banking busi
ness—depositing, borrowing, savings or
anything else in banking service —ask some
one who has done business with us.
MOHALL'SNEW HOTEL OPENS
Mohall, Nov. 27—"The Gates," Mo
hall's new HO,000 hotel, was opened
to the public and while not yet com
pleted, the manager has the building
arranged in such a way as to take
care of the traveling public.
The building is modern throughout
and has every convenience of the
hotels of larger cities
*A
iiiimiiiiiiniiiii
Ask Our Customers
Many new customers have come to us
through the recommendations of old ones.
We feel pretty sure that the client you
ask will be a satisfied one.
It does not pay us to have any other kind.
BANK OF VALLEY CITY
I
Frazier and Macdonald
Dedicate Three Schools
Governor-elect Frazier and State
State Superintendent-elect Macdonald
returned to the city Saturday evening
from the northwestern part- of the
state, where they had been the prin
cipal speakers at the dedication of
three consolidated schools. Two of
these schools were in Williams county
and in the open country. At these
there were large crowds and much en
thusiasm and splendid community sup
pers were served. The one known as
the Lindahl school had an extensive
program and a banquet that was car
ried through with neatness, dispatch
and efficiency seldom seen anywhere.
The dedications were used by the
speakers to call the attention of the
people to the Chief purposes of such
schools and how best to realize these
purposes. Mr. Frazier is a strong ad
vocate of the consolidated school, as
Mr. Macdonald has been for years. It
was a revelation to the governor-elect
to find what had been accomplished in
the western part of the state in the
field of rural school betterment.
lady Who Is Leaving
Was Honored Guest
Monday evening Mrs. A. S. Sigurd
son and Mrs. J. E. Jones, of the Shey
enne flats, were the hostesses at a de
lightful bridge tea at 6:30 at the
apartments of Mrs. Sigurdson, compli
mentary to Mrs. Sam Hall, who is
leaving the city soon. The four little
tables were decorated in pink and
white, and the place cards, flowers and
the menu were carried out in these
same colors. Miss Annie Baillie as
sisted the hostesses in serving the*
luncheon. The tally cards for the
card tables were carried out in the
colors of pink and white, and at the
bridge games Mrs. Fralik Ployhar re
ceived the prize for having the high
score and Mrs. C. G. Lund was award
ed the prize for the low score. The
guest of honor was also presented
with a gift. There were 16 ladies
present, and the affair was one of the
most attractive and nicely arranged
parties of the season.
Fred Rebhahn and R. F. Flohr, two
good farmers from the Wimbledon
district, were callers at this office
Tuesday to renew their subscription.
We had the pleasure of showing
them the working features of the shop
and a demonstartion of the linotype
machine. We are always glad of the
opportunity to do this for all visitors.
Fargo, Nov.25.—Suit has been launch
ed in the district court at Duluth by
the Northern Trust company of Fargo
against the Consolidated Grain com
pany, the Trust company holding as
signments of grain tickets issued by
the defunct North Dakota Grain com
pany, of Dazoy and Walum, N. D., on
which it seeks to recover.
That the grain sold by the North
Dakota Grain company to the Consoli
dated Grain company, a Duluth term/it
al concern, was not the property of the
North Dakota company, but was, in
fact, owned by the farmers who haa
stored it in the elevators of the com
pany at Dazey and Walum, is the
basis of the trust company's suit.
When the North Dakota Grain com
pany went bump last February, the
Northern Trust company had to pay
$10,000 to ticket holders, the local con
cern having issued bonds to cover the
elevator business.
The balance of the tickets—aggre
gating $7,200—were tarred for by a
collection made by the state railroad
commission from the Consolidated
Grain company Chairman W. H. Stuts
man of the rail board effected such
collection, holding that the purchasing
company was liable to the ticket hold
ers—the actual owners of the stored
grain—and that viewpoint was then
accepted by the company.
When the Northern Trust company,
to which ticket holders having $10,000
worth of grain in the elevator assign
ed their claims—after the Trust com
pany idemnified them—made a de
mand on the Consolidated company
for reimbursement, on the same theory
that the rail commission had present
ed, the claim was not allowed by the
Duluth concern.
The principle involved—that of a
purchasing company's liability as to
the actual owners of stored grain—
is of tremendous importance to the
farmers of the northwest, for it would
mean their complete idemnification in
case a defunct elevator concern in
which they had stored grain, had sold
their wheat to a terminal grain con
cern.
Held for Forgery in Jimtown
Brings Suit to Re- 'Slope Country Proves
cover Elevator Loss Alfalfa Profitable Crop
Under the Northern Trust company's
suit, filed by Attorneys Pierce, Tenne
& Cupler of this city, the plea is
made that the purchaser of stored
grain must determine the actual own
ership of that grain.
State Only in Making,
Hanna Tells Delegation
Bismarck, Nov. 25.—"North Dakota
is a great state in the making," said
Governor Hanna this week in address
ing a Slope delegation, "it will be in
the future what we, its present citi
zens make it.
"The east—even our own Red River
valley—has no appreciation of the
land west of the Missouri. A few
years ago, when I bought a farm in the
Slope country, my friends in the val
ley regarded me as fit subject for an
insanity inquest. Even today, the
eastern part of the state has no con
ception of the vast natural resources
.of central and western North Dakota.
"The day will come when our lig
nite, made into briquettes, will supply
tlie entire northwest and a splendid
fuel. We have more coal than Illin
ois, Iowa and Pennsylvania combined.
Yet, every year, we sent $4,000,000 to
$5,000,000 out of the state for coal.
"We are burning every year straw
which could be made into products
worth millions, and the day is not far
distant when we will have industries
utilizing this waste.
"More cattle go out of North Dakota
every day now than in the greatest
prosperity of the old ranching era.
Where a few years ago it was diffi
cult to procure an adequate local milk
supply. North Dakota now is ship
ping $5,000,000 worth of cream out of
the state every year."
Jamestown, Nov. 25.—E. H. Leach
was arraigned in justice court, presid­|
ed over by Judge Bigelow, late yester
day afternoon on the charge of for
gery in the third degree. The com
plaint was made by G. W. Howe. The
defendant was held to answer to the
charge at the next term of district
court, his bonds being placed at $1,000.
Leach was unable to furnish the bond
and was delivered into the custody of
Sheriff Fitzgerald.
C. A. Jones, who has extensive
farming interests near Eckelson, was
a caller here Tuesday to renew sub
scription and keep the big county seat
paper a regular visitor at the farm.
ESTABLISHED 1879
Bismarck, Nov. 25.—There is no
question in the minds of the owners of
the Herronwood farms, near Leith,
that alfalfa is a most profitable crop
for the Slope country.
These famous farms are owned by
Geo.W Herron and his two sons, L.
C. and D. W. Herron. G. W. and L. C.
Herron were in yesterday to call upon
Commissioner of Agriculture and La
bor Flint, and they reported that on
a 50-acre field of alfalfa this fall they
harvested 140 bushels of Grimm alfalfa
seed, which sold at $25 and $30 the
bushel.
The Herrons have been interested in
alfalfa for four years. They now have
one of the best stands to he found any
where, and they are supply seed to
progressive neighbors who have learn
ed to appreciate this most valuable
forage crop.
Until quite recently sweet clover,
which grows so abundantly every
where in North Dakota, has been con
sidered a worthless weed. Within the
last year its value as a forage plant
has been so clearly demonstrated that
next season the. Herronwood farms
will have 40 acres of sweet clover for
seed.
One of the problems of western
North Dakota has been the improve
ment of its pasture. Sweet clover, it
is believed, will solve this problem.
The Herrons last summer pastured 50
cattle on a 20-acre patch of sweet clo
ver and would still have had an abund
ance of seed this fall, but for an early
frost.
The proprietors of Herronwood
farms came to North Dakota from near
La Crosse, Wis., 11 years ago. They
are real farmers, excellent representa
tives of the splendid type of agricul
turists which the Slope is now attract
ing.
Governor Hanna Asks North
Dakotans to Retnrn Thanks
1
Governor L. B. Hanna has issued his
annual proclamation setting aside
Thursday, Nov. 30, as Thanksgiving
day for the state of North Dakota. The
proclamation follows:
"Since we as a people last united
in giving thanks, another year of
peace, prosperity, growth and ad
vancement has passed. To us has
been vouchsafed a year unmarred by
epidemic, serious disturbance or eco
nomic loss, and to us has been given
a year of peaceful enjoyment of the
prosperity of our commonwealth,
Therefore, I. L. B. Hanna, governor
do hereby proclaim and set apart
Thursday, Nov. 30, as Thanksgiving
day in the state of North Dakota for
the year 1916.
For these things let us be truly
thankful, reverently observing the
day set apart in offering praise and
thanksgiving to Almighty God, bearing
in mind that the most sincere praise
and gratitude is to be rendered in
faithful service.
Done at the Capitol at Bismarck
this 24th day of November, A. D. 1916.
L. B. HANNA,
Governor
THOMAS HALL.
Secretary of State.
Minot Negro Gets
Life in State Pen
Minot, Nov. 25.—Claude Peoples,
colored, was convicted this afternoon
of the murder of Frank Gregg in a
dance hall quarrel. He was sentenced
to life imprisonment.
AUSTIN-DAKOTA
STOCKHOLDERS HOLD
AN IMPORTANT MEETING
A meeting of the stockholders of
the Austin-Dakota Development Co.
I was held in the city Monday evening
at the Commercial club rooms. Re
ports from the superintendent of the
mines and from the consulting engi
neer, Dean Babcock, of the university
of North Dakota, were very favorable.
They are installing a large two-reel
engine and cages at the mines for de
velopment work. The outlook for the
mines is wonderfully encouraging,
and they predict the mine will be
come one of the most prosperous
properties in the country.
Among those who were here for the
moeting were T. C. Griffith and Chas.
Garvin, of Grand Forks S. H. Nel
I son, of Finley Ralph Hall, of Carring
I ton and Chas. L. Johnson, of Bowdon.
Among the Barnes county stockhold
ers who were in the city for the meet
ing were Dean Smith, C. A. Newman,
Henry Bruns, John Noak and Fred
Beals.
Farmers, Attention!
If you intend to make a FARM LOAN this fall,
do not overlook in calling on the—
Middle west Loan and Trust Go.
Valley City, N. D.
We can quote you a very low rate of interest.
Loan can be closed on the day the application is
taken.
'M*-
v' jsfefc&l. X
4
