n
Marble Hill Pre;
"I
Vol. jo.
Marblc Hill, Missouri, Thursday, Nocmher .$;. oin.
No. 31.
THE 1
nil
rn
mill whether or not you got your prefemue, vou must bin Clothing, Shoes, Groceries l:tc, for vourseif and
family and the question is where you can get the most and best quality of merchandise for the least money?
m a . m
U you nave neen a customer of this store any length ot time we have no iear of how you w ill decide th;
matter for we are sure that the courteous treatment, low prices ami excellent quality of our goods will ap
peal to and hold you as a regular customer, but if you have not traded enough at our store to uiliy realize
the kind of treatment we accord all with whom we deal we ask that vou treat us fairlv bv coiring to our
store during this Sale and giving us an opportunity to prove; to you that our claim to be the best trading
point in Bollinger county is true. Be fair to yourself and to us by giving us a chance to quote you prices on
anything you nitiy need, before buying. We have more goods than any other store in the county and can
supply your wants at the lowest possible figures. Tzy us an J sec if this is net true.
Sale begins November 18, and closes the last day of the year
Ladies' and Children's Cloaks
Wf I.. 1 vp fi t ! rxrri !K-(Vtlil) fill weather M far tht fall, but oti
know ii t t, .i, . uhn Mx a titu. we may r'aotihiy ex
;cl cftM. b.i weather Uh many day Yoorwife A children
thotiid ! If'i.ii.d with M.lr of iHjr frmni, srrv kftille and com
fijflnbir ca!s t f re the td weather brains and there w no
reson why tl t ..uU w - f;r we nave ulmt mi sue and
oy prtl garn at in tfu line you ih for
See this big line of Real Bargains before you buy. They
are eyeopeners.
Men and Boys' Hats and Caps
(Xbt hi tln nwu'.y loo like the mirth w dw tt the
full B'o in ! j,w.Ki with our bw of th ;-! We can fit
any hp! ant ; ke?.k od any taste ih Hat or Cap We
ur do htsip in thu I trie Come in and see how bright e ,ire
Pratt's and International Stock f .ods
and vptpfinar) f'-n,;et!;f will go til a cttg:in It ilf ;k you
kk after yKr :.k for l rs are loo valuable to urtfln-t
Dress Goods
Dress Goods
"Talk ts i hrap. " m are the prices on our entire large sto k of
Ir- (',! We can not duplicate the g ods in llie mnrkei at
ti.f (rn rs are yllni! lUin lot of gooiK (nit f nre tfiM'W -ur
ctititner the U-in-lit of thev burHin.i .tn-i u:akmti new fti-ini,
by itivniji mi If you don 1 believe we bve the ou anl at rn e?
ytui rm t (injilh-nte el-H-where, call ami b't us liow ymi VVe .ire
in iteiii! earnest und inetu to show you that ve nre
Children's Caps and Sweaters
Jt?r Mo-k n larye unl ounjileic an l we ran make yi;r little
ones 1 "infort.ible this winter for very little money If you don't
U-ltee thiv tome in ami -e our bii line.
Comforts and Blankets
n ktuw how unootiifortahle one is if wl in Us an-1 you eaa
not l an tt while in :hi i'iilitioii Vn tion t uo-M-rve
mii tiimtl:v however when e are al:iut iiiviru ,iway
l' n,'or; and Hlankeis Just iihik- ia ani prii-e them
Millinery
Mi'linery
We have soici a mattinnit'i st-n-k of ju!i' atnl i-hil'lre;i'. Hi,:
arid Civ,& this fall, but we ha- a W in--p. i,--io-d..:e left
and in ord-r to clean out ih.' stock ci:Mr vt- .nc i;fT-rni' them
A t and Ii t I o u C o s t
They wim't last Uma at the prices we arc niakin! on liietn. so if
you want one you .should not wait
Shoes
Shoes
We have always tried to be ;ible to supply our customers- with
AnVthing iliey mirfh! destre in the Shoe line from the most dressy
to the liest in evervday work ( and we now have a iartrr
StiK'k than ever before, so we feci sure that we can till your wants
more satisfactorily than ever Save a doctors bill by keeping
your feet warm and dry. thereby economizing and save money on
your shoe bill by buyim' from its thus twice saving money We
also carry an t xccptiena'ly 1 ir line of the fatuous "Hall" and
' Bullseye" hi amis of rt.biier footwear am! we an mokii.c esif tally
attrac'ive pri'-es on tlietii See how lew we sire'oh the puces !e
fore you buy
Coal Oil, per ujilon Juriinj this Sale only
Se
Gloves
Gloves
Do y mi know that glors arr no knier einhlerel a luury
They are a oeiTHMty Anyoie can do fietter work in any line if
their hiirt art in ii-! rotniituxi at1 if the skin i hanl and
rrm'krd wpeo. yon unrJy kr rnHn;h in a few Ikhim time through
inaNltty to turn off your work rijjlit, to pay for tfloves to hieW
them vera! ppk. Think of thw frm a buiivrs standptunt
and then come in atnl let us fit you out with any kind you desire
Overcoats
Overcoats
We have the Urgent Sto k ami tfiratrst variety of Dvernwt on
hand we have eer boimht any !e(xi In wler to push these
ginnl out we are offering ps-idl indiKTtnent in the way of low '
pffc-es to our customers T1ey are rare bargain we them
Irish Potatoes $1.60 per bushel
We will pay you St M per bushel for tfod. pk keil Irish (nHatoes.
HnnjJ them in
Clothing
Clothing
We have the lart sttx k of Clotliini; in the ronnty and we art
offermi! the entire line at the lowest p"ssible price
S2.)t0 Suits will $o during this Sale ?r only
1S(H) "
ir -
" " -
10 IX) " " " " -
8 00 "
Young men s Suits will jjo at from SJ.oO, SSfiti. $10. $12."d and
SIS.
BijJ lot of close cut Suits. :52, :V4. 1" lt. 17 and 18 sizes will jjo
at a bargain IXmi t forget to look at them.
Hoys' knickerNx ker Suits in latest styles can not fail tg please
you in quality and prW
Our line of men's Trousers is the barest in the county and our
prices are the lowest See us before oti buy.
$20 tH)
lti.W
13 (X)
12 50
10 IX)
9 85
USti
5 75
Paints
Paints
Wp are selling our stock at last years prices, and you know there
is quite a lot of difference in this season s prices and those of last
year
Groceries
Groceries
Did you ever stop to think that there is lots of difference in
groceries Many merchants keep such gxds on hand until they
are stale absolutely unfit for human beings to eat. Our stivk is
changing every week no week passes that we fail to receive a
large consignment of fresh groceries therefore we never hesitate
to guarantee such gtxxis to be as fresh as can be found in the
market.
Trunks, Suitcases and Grips
We have a few left that we are o'Tenng at a barg un fotm in
and see us before vou bi;
1 4 'Pounds of Suifjz for rith ivrr So.tV purchase
We will be pleased to have all our old friends call at our Store any time and would like to become acquainted
with nian others. We arc In position to sell you go. ids cheaper and pay higher prices for our pnnliKC than ccr before. Mien. h not brine us tur
Turkeys. Chickens, Oocse. Duvks, V.zzs. Butter, Lard, PotattK's, hides, in fact anything you may hae to sell. We are in busiiu . to trade and we must
move our goods out.
I.ct us know when you hae any heep, Mog, Cattle, or other lie stock to sell. We are in the market for it.
TTaytor
nn
JVU
ours for business.
nn
mm
il
iissouri
