' , -
-j
rt A topping
1 1 Days YiU Cferist
Lv mas. Shop Early
Pl
THE HUSTLER
Watch Hustler Ado ts
Henderson County V
Home Paper
VOL. XXIII. NO. 46
HENDERSONVILLE, N. C. THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 1916
PRICE FIVE CENTS
r i ni '
WOMBLE YILL .
SERVE FOURTH YEAR
AT METHODIST CHURCH
B G. Tuttle Appointed Presiding Elder
Aslieville District Mr. Burgess
and Mr. Huneycutt Returned
Rev. Y. F. Womble has been return-
n if. rdorsonville by Conference to
ed to '1U'"
servo his fourth year as pastor of the
Hendorsonville "Methodist church. Rev.
B G- T.uile was appointed presiding
lltVr cf ilio Asheville district. Rev. A.
'B-irsof-; i t turned to East Fiat Rock
amHv. R- F- Huneycutt was return.
t to Mills River. The appointments
,n- tlv shcville district follow:
Aslieville District.
r G. Tuttle, presiding elder.
Aslieville, Bethel J. O. Ervin.
sheville. Central C. W. Byrd.
Aslieville, Chestnut Street D.
Ai.
tins.
Aslieville, Haywood
Street O. P.
Ader.
Asheville. West Asheville S. T. Bar
ber. Aslieville Circuit J. H. Lanning,
supply.
Biltmore and Mt. Pleasant D. R.
Proffitt.
Black Mountain G. . H. Christeu
berry; R. L. Ferguson, supernumerary.
Brevard W. S. Poovey.
Fairview W. A. Thomas, supply.
Flat Rock and Fletcher A. Burgess.
Hendersonville W. F. Womble.
Henderson Circuit John H. Green.
Hot Springs and Marshall To be
supplied.
Leicester J. Ei McSwaim
Mars Hill J. L.. Smith.
Mills River R. F. Honey cvtt.
Rosman C. A. Johnson.
Spring Creek J. M. Green.
Sulphur Spring3 T. A. Groce.
Swsnnanc.a--i P. Bogle:
ri:ron and Saluda W. A Newell.
Vi nut J. O. Banks. ply.
'tjn erville E. W. Fox.
Wcaverville Circuit T. Hugging,
President Weaver College J R.
Walker. . . ':
Missionary to Corea--M. B. Stokes.'
Missionary to' China R. J. Parker.
Resolutions approving the- unifica
tion of Methodism In the United States
upon the tentative plan adopted by the
General Conference of the . Methodist
Episcopal Church, were adopted by the
Confernce.
C. A. Johnson S. L. Owen and J. C.
Brown, local preachers, were elected
deacons and T. L. Noble, a local
preacher, was elected elder.
W. C. Bowden and J. F. Harrelson,
preachers on trial were discontinued
at their own request, having failed to
pass examination.
F. w. Cook, J. H.. Green, M. W. Mann
and J. w. Vestal, traveling preachers,
were elected deacons.
R. F. Honeycut. E. B. Troy' R. F:
Mock. J. E. McSwain, W. M. Smith, E.
0. Smithdeal, G'. W. Williams and J. M.
Fo'ger, traveling preachers, were,
elected elders.
Ten new men were admitted on trial.
T. J. Huggins. J. LaFayette Smith, Ed.
Love Kirk, Thomas F. Higgins. Wil
Ham l ee Scott, Joseph M. Greene,
Samuel p. Mauedin, Houston G. Aller
B. c. Revis, John C. Umberge.
A S. Abernethy, J. W. Bennett, J; W.
Combs, T. V. Crouse. R. L. Forbis U.
V. Howell, C. A. Johnson, M.. A. Os
borne and W. A. Jenkins were-preachers
continued on trial.. . ..,--'
The committee appointed a year ago
to look into the matter of establishing'
a Methodist IiospitolitbinVtliiQ.'Qoii.'
ference recommended that, the building
of a hospital under pie condition 'that
ft be located .where, a suitable hospital
medical staffs a suitable, site, at least
$40,000 toward . buildings and equip
ment to ultimately cost not less than
1150,000 is secured. ,; The. eomniittee
v&s continued" with power to ictj " "
J. R. Scroggs, presiding elder "of the
Shelby district -annnpunce'' that T. H.
Comann fcadjoined the 'ministry of the
-Presbyterian jChurch. ,,' . .. Zr ''I
The Conference . which as held , at
tonia. Bishop John C. Kiigo; pre
wding. adjourned Monday xiight' to
fiieet next year in juheville. - .:
COLO EED PUPlLt "OF ;'CI11
maot. lnpip snewisa,
All aortv3i(8ie"ilkici&t made by
colored atndetr or . eiterh ;2orth'
Carolina 'WKulaplItt-'thfe5- T:U.
I- aoditorinin;1 in tAsSevilIe Thursday
d Pridax of: lait ;-wefe fT 8ewihg,
drawing, Weavingr crbchetingTr carpen
"J and other Tocatibna.1 training work
jere exhibited by the achbola of Hen
flerson and Buncombe countiet. - '
Tb teachers deserre tne r eat
Praise for their work. . He(
county was '.Jthere with thc VXxas
e excellent exhibits of the Hender,
onviiie colored graded school were
equal to any and second to none In the
fair. Hundreds of men. and women,
ho were competent to judge, ifpolce in
je highest terms of the work done by
e students of the HendersonvllJe
graded school. For quality, neatness
variety and artistic arrangement, Hen
oersonvilie had it.
Pl AY TO I?E GIVEN AT
SHAW'S CREEK SCHOOL,
s'iaws Creek graded school will give
a. play on December 8 at 7 o'clock, en
titled "Cabbage School Play." after
hich a box supper will be "given,
everybody cordially ihvited.
0
UR Father, from thee come alf
Each day we pray fbr"ddifr
supply all our needs ' according to hy
Christ Jesus. We thank thee fir the nu
life. Friends, health, food, shelter allw
thee. Accept our song of thanksgiving whiphy rises from
deeply thankful hearts. May the renewed emories of the
Thanksgiving season lead us to give our livfs to thee with
a richer sense of consecration than we have hitherto known.
Not alone content to speak our thanks on thii one day, may
prayer and song and life proclaim our
of the swiftly passing year. Amen.
OLD TRICK LEAVES BABY
IX HANDS OF RUGBY WOMAN.
Mrs. W. L. Miller Asked to Hold Child
Saturday and the Mother
Never Returned. ,
While standing In William's store
here Saturday afternoon Mrs.W.L. Mil.
ler was approached by a well dressed
young woman, apparently about 22
years of age, who asked ber to hold
her baby for a. few minutes while she
went to do some shopping at another
store. After holding the baby for
some time, much longer than, the stated
few minutes. Mrs. Miller started an in
vestigation, and found that a suitcase
of baby clothes and some food had been
left for her together with a note stat
ing that she was known as a good
Christian mother and had been picked
for a, guardian for the little stranger.
The note explained that the baby's
name was Alfred Lee. Ray and asked
Mrs. Miller to be good to him.
Mrs. Miller took the child home and
notified officers who are looking lor
the mysterious mother.
The baby is about 8 months old and
lusty youngster, it , is thought that
the japtVf came to Hendersonville on
the Irfiln v from Lake x Toxaway, but
further this, no one seems to
know who :jhe is or where she hails
from.
DEEDS RECORDED.
Realty transactions recorded in the
office of the Register of Deeds for Hen
derson county during the past week
include the following:
Leon. Fischer of Charleston, S. C to
J. W. Fulton of Mcintosh county, Ga.,
for $3200, property on West Sixth Ave.
Miss Dovie Youngblood to Mrs.
Myrtle E. Crawford, for $900, property
on Pine street.
G. C. Guice to V. P. Adair, for $200,
2 acres in Hendersonville township.
T. B. Laughter to M. D. England, for
$80. 8 1.2 acres in Clear Creek town
ship. J. B. Patterson to H. F. Cantrell, for
$350, 15 acres In Crab Creek township.
J. K, Blythe to H ..F. Cantrell, for
$5?, 14 1-2 acres in Crab Creek town
ship. G. H. .Valentine to Annie C. Davis of
Cleveland, Ohio, for $900, property on
Sixth avenue, West;
A. Carl Stepp to L. E. Fisher, for $1
and other valuable considerations, lot
on Gertie avenue in East Flat Rock.
W. A. .Smith, mortgagee to P. D. Hay
of Charleston, S. C, for $1200, George
Burke, Jr., property in Laurel Park.
W; A. Smith to P. D. Hay of Charles,
ton, for $10 and other valuable con.
siderations, property, in" Laurel Park.
... W. P,' Potts to Fannie Collins for
$800. property on Pace street, city,
C O. Hearon of. Spartanburg, to
C.VP. Sanders, also of Spartanburg, for
$900, 60 jacres' more or-lessen Green
River tbwnsblpi : ?;: s r -..-v..--'
W. P. PotU to A. G. .Elhinney of
buncombe county,- for $10:. and other
valuable r conBidertii;.)ot on Yar
borough street, elty.' - i -y ; t
SHERMAN SETS INQUIRIES
THROUGH RATTLE STOKT;
The. article nnblislCeld asi w'eet eJl-J
posing of Hehdeftroa cdunty'-'eftttlei lit
Baltimore, had caue i;tiiMeTrf to
aulries to -be ent ' ln ttf Mr."BhenQftn.;
One -was -receive frora. 'ft man-a
Wadesboro, and another at jit. vjieao
wrote that he had about $5 iiead br:
gale and" wantediMr.. Sherxnan to cohe
The young ladies meiibew of the
Phllbponoclan ,I4terry Society of
Frultland Institute, - will - Dfesent
Shakespeare's greaVcedy;' 'A Mid.
nraer-ht:rireamnjth,
rluin of " the school .tonight at 7:30
o'clock. Rehearsals -have been held al
most daily and the presentation will no
doubt be very enjoyable. .. -.
MARRIAGE LICENSES.
License have been isswed for the
marriage of Thomas N. Marshall cf
Wolf Lake. N. C. and Clara Van Vie.
rah of Hendersonville; Fred Byers
and Maggie Brewer, both of Arden,
Route 1.
P'nk Teague; white, aged 61. . was
killed by an automobile near Conova?
Saturday. He stenned from behind a
wagon in front of the' automobile and
was killed. l .r
J.
WILSON
MgCARSON
PASSES TO REST
Popular Member of City Police Force
Ded Sunday Night of Heart
' Trouble Funeral Tuesday.
Hendersonville was saddened. Mon
day morning when it was announced
that 'J. Wiison McCarson had passed
away on Sunday night shortly after
nine o'clock. Up to the first ol Noyein.
ber Mr. McCarson had been in the best
of health, but an affliction of the heart
fastened itself upon his body and re
sulted in his death.
Mr. "McCarson was about 46 years of
age. and is survived by his wife and
three children, Margery, Joe and
Trask. He was a native of Henderson
county and had always taken a lead
ing part in public life. For several
yearg he was chief of police of Hen
dersonville, later city treasurer and
tax collector, -and at the time of his
death was a member of the Hender
sonville police force. He made-a fear
less 'officer and was very popular
among Jrta associates.
' Jn the-lection November T,' hewas:
a candidate for sheriff " of Henderson
county, but was, defeated by M. AUard
case, his republican opponent.
The funeral services were held from
the home in South Hendersonville
Tuesday afternoon at two o'clock, con
ducted by Rev; Geo. F. Wright, pastor
of the East Hendersonville . Baptist
church, and interment was made in
Oakdale cemetery. A large number of
sorrowing and sympathetic friends of
the deceased and his family attended
to pay their last respects to the re
mains. Included in this number were
the members o the city , council and
Chief Otis PoweVs Policeman Ed Gar
fen and Thomas Williams, Ernest
Thompson, superintendent of streets,
A. A. McCall .city plumber, and G. W.
Brooks, city treasurer and tax collec
tor, were pall bearers.
Mr. McCarson was held in high es
teem by all who knew him. and his
death brought widespread sorrow.
ONE
SHEEP BRINGS
OVER FOURTEEN DOLLARS.
J. C. Brlttain-a prosperous farmer
of the Mills River section, disposed of
one sheep on the Hendersonville mar
ket, Tuesday -which netted him $14.70,
or 12 cents per pound. Mr. Brittain
has eight or ten headof nhcep on his
farm at present but they .are not for
sale. He ratendrTiext year Jto go into
the sheep-raisingJwislness on a larger
scale' and hopes 40 liave at least a hun.
3r6d head; ; Sheep-wfetogj -at the price
above mntSojy-mt ta be. pro.nta
ble t6"our aTfnrsttdthe. sale Of-the
wool 'at the ' presfixtt hlgh prices con
stitutes 'no: little 4teta tpwards well
Robert-SignioijgedwiS instant
ly killed by eipn fymctj
Sunrfiy. mactt
ride'-'3 '- - '
""':;--7f----- ,
place 3rcur ; Advertising feppy for
lnitrriasvKiiion in cHiwjcot
later than M o n J a y, December 4tn,
" Q Owing to the rush of business ads corning
in later may have to be omitted.
gratitude every day
m
MR, JACKSON IS SLATED
FOR MINORITY LEADERSHIP.
That
reoentl
rownlow, Jackson of this city
; elected on the republican.
ticket tbf the lower house of the stats'
legislature,- is a candidate for the
speaker; hip of the. house is the inter
esting iewsV sent out from Raleigh.
The dispatch from Raleigh says:
"BroYnlow Jackson, manager of
James 4. Britt in his two recent cam
paigns far xongress. 1914 and 1916, is
a candk ate.for the speakership of the
lower tpuse. Mr. Jackson, of course,
does not hope to be elected, but he is
running; for the minority leadership a
position held by H. S Williams, wfc
recently' raced Bob Doughton for con
gress ipS. the Eighth. Mr. Jackson's
friends -are at work for him and urging;-all;
?eblican members to cast
their vptesj f Or him when they come
to elect' V -.
' Ihef'Henderson county man is a
merchant :and - business man who
makes ja most .successful sideline of
politics . He ran away in the late race
In vHenderspni county, beating one of
the' most popular men in the county,
and eating him very-badly. It is said
that no; Republican ever received such
a majorltyr in that county. And 1
derson had" been right badly done up
bv fraternat quarrels in the county in
thVsummer.
"The election of Mr. Jackson as mi
nt?rtfeda6rnldi?laee him in line
for nythiHgs -that his party, could-give
htm, thoughts friends understand the
pickings are quite limited."
FASSIFERN HAPPENINGS
OF THE PAST WEEK.
Thursday morning at 11 o'clock Prof
DeColingny made'an inte;stihgltalk to
the Fassifern students, on "the old
Spain." 5
,Miss Elizabeth Haupt spent several
days at Fassifern last week. vDuring
her stay in - Hendersonville she spoke
to the boy scouts Friday evening; on
Sunday afternoon to the Fassifern students-;
Sunday night at the First Bap
tist church and Monday morning at
the graded school. Her subjects were
on the work among the Ojibway In
dians. She. Is traveling to interest in
the'lhdians. She worked under the
Episcopal mission board in Minesota
for some years but her health failed
and she is'now working independently
doing what she can for the red people.
Misses Vinton Liddell, Leonora
Blount, Harriet Bellamy and Betty
Skelding spent Saturday in Ashevltie
as the guests of Mrs. Tom Settle.
Mrs. Lucian Walker. Miss Hooper
and Miss Vinton Liddell spent Sunday
in Arden visiting friends.
Miss Shipp and Mrs. McBee delight
ed the inmates at the County Home
Wednesday by taking them a bountiful
basket of "good things" for Thanks
giving. ; ' '
The faculty and atudents wish to
thank Hunter's Pharmacy for the treat
given them oil Jast Friday jifternoon.
-yul A. Rockwen of Ashevffie; troth,
er-of Kiffln Rockwell, American feviaioi
killed in action in France, is to marry
Marie .Francpls. eanne Leygues.
daughter of the president of toe iot
chamber
tjf deputies of Frahce. : - , :
:- 1 x- '
3B-
-1
PHONE i SIX
" For the Ad Man
JUDGE ADAMS DECIDES
III FAVOR OF WEAVER
Counsel for Britt Enter Notice of Ap.
.peal to the Supreme Court May
Contest Seat in House.
In the case of Representative James
J. Britt vs. the Buncombe county board
of election, Judge Adams Monday dis
missed the writ of mandamus, issued
by Judge Shaw on .behalf of Mr. Britt,
to compel the board of election to com
ply with the law in certifying the re
turns. The board certified the returns
shortly after the mandamus was issued
and gave Zebulon Weaver, democrat,
a majority of nine votes in the district.
Mr. Britt's attorneys contended thar
the action of the board was illegal in
that certain ballots that were unmark
ed but which contained only the name",
of the congressional candidates wero
counted.
Counsel for Mr. Britt noted an ap.!
peal to the state supreme court and!
republican leaders said that an effort
would probably be made to enjoirhthe
state board of election from issuing
a certificate of election to Weaver
pending a decision. i
It is evident now that Mr. Britt will
carry the case to the supreme court,
and in the event of failure there., will
enter notice of contest on the floor; cf
the House of Representatives in Wash!
ington. In case it comes to the latter
Mr. Weaver is given a certificate by
the state board of election, he will
draw one year's salary no matter how
the House decides. An appropriation
of $2,000 Js. made by the House for the
purpose of paying the expenses at
tached to a contest. .
Judge Adams, Tuesday afternoon,
told attorneys for Britt. that in view' of
the fact that he had'dismissed the man
damus proceeding he preferred not to
sign the temporary injunction against
the state canvassing board and the sec.
retary of state enjoining them from
issuing a certificate of election to Mr.
Weaver. However, he told them that
if they could not find another judge b
would consider signing the order.
Thomas Settle left Asheville Tuesday
afternoon in search of another judge.
The following- Interesting light pn
the situation In the tenth Is given in'a
dispatch from Raleigh to-the Greens
boro News, written byThOmias Bost:
"Tenth district lawyers here' today
don't think Congressman Brjtt has any
chance in the state courts or in the
national Congress. 7 ,
"The attorneys believe that any in
investigation will drive from any mind
not made up as to fraud, all dissatis
faction. One of them who appears in
the case and dodges the calciums de
clares that Weaver has been as surely
elected as Ed Pou. "If we count 'ail
unmarked ballots he is safe by 300
and if we count only marked ones he
is tuttea oy iuu. ...iiMi wnac maoe This letter shows- us what one real
Weaver safe in giving Britt any. stand- ' influential booster can do for our
ard of counting If there is a contest thriving city, and what people who
absolute proof is ready to show Wea. ,naVe tried it.: think of Crystal Spring
ver's honest election. As the case water. Undoubtedly as Dr. Ennis
npw,is much has been printed that says, Crystal Springs can be made a
looks bad because the facts have not grat asset fo? ; Hendersonville . and
been presented .because they ' were not; our peo le ought to realize that it iTa
relevant in granting the certificate,- bi dTinK. ?ard f0r the citc ".
"There never : was anything more un-jsith is always doing all he Jan fo
just than some of the news stones .he mM nf w4n,prartlllo Tit.
written about the tenth. People have
allowed themselves to become biased
.Dy lmpeneci reports. 11 anyooay-i
m m 1 - a 11
to cast out those uhmarkeddon't see De1Se The neoSe PUttmg ,tS mej',ts
what Tt could be. And if there is aDee the people-
contest all these things will be brought
out
"In the late JohnsonrPate .primary
election in. this cohnty, the state board
of elections ruled that Johnson had
not received a majority and ordered a the Seventh avenue crossing a force of v
new. primary. . Johnson-restrained the- Southern railway carpenters are here -county,
board of elections; from issuing at work moving . the station about 50 s.
certificate of nomination to Pate after feet' further south of its present loca,:
the second primary had declared Pate tlpn. The soil is bein 'removed -froni-winner.
;The lower -court held that around the iati3 Jand the building -v.
Pate lost his "right" to another primary j will be kedVupnd rolled in its en
by not'making known "his purpose to , tirety to the new location: TLe' Soiith. -contest
'the election and therefore e , era . Express eompahy's office and rhe
was .without remedy, albeit,, the judge baggage room ar6 ocenpying te'mjpor
allpired the election, to .take place. . ary quarters until the trull ding in moVv
- ''methlaot the; same issues areed. It Is thought the " work'will -be
Involved Ih this contest from the 10th completed by : Christmas and the bulht' '
the state bdtrdjbAVtog uled Jn fayor ing the awH ;Ke nerly 'kAU'ifM
iSf-'marte ballots, while "the$e were otherwise-imnroved. . : --r-.'- -;.
f li'orTBOTrttfeai Ine prei?iicW-- Nbw.
Mr. weaireri Dacjter ecir s l f
1 elected jbyatry test to be employed.
"J1. V." 'i.?
ERjVlLLE GARAGES '
GET? UlQ-iYULt FROHT BRITT.
-te-
i'bording to a import, iehtfent front
Washington to the Greensboro News
ty Parker B. Anr90,,-.Henaerson-vilje'
was the place in hich money
wsfs freely ftpent fpx..autp.JW?e by J.
Ji -Britt' one Nawmber 13. The figures
IIEND
fSir church, to going-over thecouhtty de
1 indicate .that -November IS-was tneJi ,t- -l.r ., --u a ; v
to the tenth district congressman's re
port, he spent- $930 for; automobile
hire and telephoning ;alone. ..Robert
jAnderg extracted $20 from .the ; com
mittee : for automobile, service, while
the Hendersonville Automobile com
pany collected $2177 for the sam; pur
nose. G. T. Orr a down for- $14,75 for
!Mov riding" the Republican: cand;date3
I friends and admirers while tha Miller
and Brown garage received ?2b rcr tno
same purpose. The balance of tho
$85.2a expended on that unlucky day
November 13 wos thrown to the Ashe
ville, Telephone and Telegraph com
pany. Only; $12.68, however, waj used
for phonp p"erv!ce on the above men
tioned thirteenth day of November.
L SPRINGS A
BIG DRAWING CARD
D. Ennis Tells What People Who
Have Tried It Think of the Water
' From This Spring.
Dr. John E. 'Ennis who spends his
summers here, is a "live-wire" booster
for. Hendersonville, and considers
Crystal Spring water one of the city's
greatest drawing card. Doctor Ennis
is now in St. Petersburg, Fla., and
writing to W. A. Smith, owner of Lau
rel Parkj within the bounds of which
Crystal Springs is located says:
'iLast winter I made an effort hers
to have northern tourists the following
year get tickets passing through your
city, advising them to stop there for a
time. . A number did so and I am
pleased to tell you they were delighted
with Hendersonville and will now be
regular visitors both fall and spring.
Some of them down here are boosting
your city
to all they come m eontact
with.-
"A Mr. Owen and wife of Portland,
Maine, remained one wees. ii.cy v.n
stop at least two months on their way
home. A. Mr. Morris Henick of La
Porte. Indiana, and wife at my urgent
request stopped on his way, telling his
wife he only done so to keep his word
with me and a day's rest might do him
good. They were so captivated with
your city-tffey remained one month,
and from this time on will be with you
three or four months every year. Mr.
Heniek is a wealthy man, with great
influence among the vast crowd of
tourists who come here and I know he
will do us great service. He has been
suffering from rheumatism for many
years in the-past, being always under
the care of a physician. Accepting my
advice he drank one gallon per diem,.
of Crystal water while there, and as a
result was cured of that terrible dis
ease. He stopped at the Cedars. .
Please tell Mrs. Bailey her kind-cat';
and your efficient water made this
wonderful cure.
15'pw if yqur Board of Trade wilt
furnish printed matter I will make
aneffort toRet. many tourists to'stvo
while going fromhere this, spring or -returning,
ext fall. If successful in
this, it wUJ make your season much .
longer! "' '
: "Will you kindly ascertain, express
charges : on 5 - gallons Crystal Springs
water, to this placen and advise b"cst
method of packing, if you could fur
nish me with a. circular fescriptive ,
the water and its similarity to Poland
springs. I can send hundreds to your
place. Let the facts be known as. to
he wonderful cures made by the use of
this water. It will prove the greatest
attraction you possess to draw tour
ists. . ' - -' . . -. ' ,v:'t ' - r '' ' .
"Your board . of trade ought to get up
a circular or .pamphlet descriutive of
Crystal Springs water "
trying to put the water on the market
.It Js free as air, almost. This naDer
ha tim i mn nPMoJ
.iwerur PEIM MOVED TO
RELIEVE CONGESTION.
In order to relieve the congestion at
-.- . : ' ' ' - -: 'x
;jnSiSMX WORKER, A1IOXG
'Je-.f -
INDIANS LECTURED HEKEv
isixzaoetn Haupt, ox . va tun fc, v-
ton, Dr C.A wha has spent several years
CRYSTA
! doing mission jwork among tlJ.Ojite!ray;: tf
and Sioux inamns cf . Northern iitchi
gan;-. lectured.: a' the PlrtBajr v,
church- here Sunday nikhtf fc r union 4- :
-womegatio: composed of ttt& member
of all the other hnrcij.es'MisstUupt;
who hj a member c of - the .Episeona -J
ing to renlistihegeneral Interest bf
denpminatiofrs is mission work amofag
these Indians. '. - .
MODERN WOODMEN TO
ELECT NEW OFFIC E RS.
Fernwood Camp, 15,282,' Modern
Woodmen of America will hold their
annual election of afficers at their next
regular meeting "Monday night,. Decein
her 4." and all members are urged to be
'present.
- Tbs membership campaign now he
leg conducted by members of this
rTTvr will cloe the. first Mndayin
Tanuarv at which time a banouet will
! be served in. thejodge hall.. - - '
