' M Pí "
V
w
it
11
ÍÍ 1
VOLUME 1!
LAYTON. NEW MEXICO, THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 1916.
NO. 47
17
I if I u.
I A
ti
1
rnYfOTT on r.nr.s i
HAS WIDE APPROVAL
MAYORS OF SEVERAL CITIES
HIVE SANCTION; MOVING PIC
TURES TO AID IN FIGHT FOR
LOWER FOOD PRICES FOR
PEOPLE
New' York, Nov. 27. Steps for a
statewide boycott with the weight cf
official sanction from rnayors of its
force, were taken ton'f.y, i. was an
nounced here by Joseph Hnrt'gan,
commissioner of weights and rr. ras
ures and secretary to Mayor Mitch
el's committee on food supply. Mr.
Hartigan said that Mayor C. F. Burns 1
of Troy, N. Y., president of confer
ence of mayors of ci ies of New York
state, advised him by telephone that '
he was about to call upon the mnyorj
of every city in the state to ''issue a !
proclama ion to the people urgmg 1
them not to use eggs for two weeks,
except for the aged, infirm, sick and
children."
"The boycott is the only method
by which we cr.n smash the power of
the special ínteres s which km under
stood to control the egg market,
ma;, or l.wns believes," Baid .Vr. Ha.-i.-ipiiti.
'"The program he proposes is
that each commodity in turn shall re
ceive the same .xeatment and thai in
the public interest the maycrs will ag
itate the sarna proposition with re
.gard to each articles."
Pictures to Help
He said mo ion picture interests
have volunteered to help the boycott
campaign by flashing slides in their
theaters informing the public whnt
to do from t;me to 'Jme as differe-t
foods are put under the ban in order
to break up the "alleged speculation
which is said to be causing abnormal
ly high prices."
John J. Dillon, state commissioner
of foods and markets, announced to
day he expecs to bring from coun
try districts of the state more storage
eggs to sell them at 35 cents a dozen,
having already disposed of sixteen
cases of thir.y dozen , each.
Thanksgiving Day. How is it Kept?
tt -i i o y' i,,ovfcmüt'r 30ln '8 Thanksgiving Day, a day which has been kept by the people of the
United Mates, since it was inaugurated by he Pur.tansyin 1692. Throughout this country the people
as a "hoe -;!'. rather arou-.tl their fables, hv'en w ,h many of the v. v.ries of li.fi-, r.roduefs of their
toil am! trvii '.Kjntlful feast. As they are coin so the thought comes to our mind, as to whether
the great majority who are partaking of their fest'vities, really give a serious thought as to the mean
Jtc r.n 1 bv-i'! -.n-v of -.he duy, and whether the yuuiger K;ncratica u being instilled with the true
thought and meaning of the day.
We doubt very m-ich if such is the case If not, it is high time that the people of this nation
should be a vnicd and forced to give bucH mat.ers mure serious consideration.
Unlike other holidays, which have been set apart, either by legislative enactment or by custom,
for the ce'eb-wtipn of some treat achievement, in honor of some event, or as a day of recreation, to
be spent m merry-making. Thanksgiving comes to is as a day of prayer and of thanksgiving to the
Supreme ruler of the Universe for blessings received.
r" The day has been handed do-vn through the centuries and comes as a heritage to us from the
Puritan P.'T-ims vho settled in New England in 1G20. These sturdy forefathers, braved the s orms
of the mit;h!v ocean m frail barks, leaving homes in Englund and sought refuge in the wilds of this
country, inhnhited only by savages that they might be free from tvrame; persecution of the crowned
heads of Euope and that they might worship their Cod in -.heir chosen manner. After a vear of toil
and mu; y hnHships endured, harvest time comes. Their crops have been garnered in and they have
been prosne'e-'s ?.r I r.re bountifully provided for. S. in true consecration, realizing the source from
whence These r.VSmgs have C0TT1P- 8 proclamation is sent out, and on a set date these Pilgrims gathered
for public worship and Thanksgiving.
Control, if you will, this first Thanksgiving day with the manner in which our Modern Thanks
givings rre kept What do you find? No-, a day djvoted to thanksgiving and praise, but a day to be
celebrated with frivolous merry-making and social enjoymen..
Throvch this broad lnnd, we Pre so prowl of, resplendent in wealth and grandeur, looked upon as
the ideal Christian Nation of the vo-ld, the neopte of this country will be found converting this dav,
dedicated ;u . memorial, into a rio.ous holiday. Q almost every athletic Hold of our great colleges
and instU'ition of .lwrainj? students of rival mile 3 will be vicing with each other for physical and
seien ifie s.ir-remnc?, in the great game of FootV.ll, cheered on by thousands of loyal followers,
hi'c in the rreat Metropolis of our nation men will meet in roped arenas nnd contend for pugilistic
honors. So'ii I ; v U ho! l s-ay anil all the ball-rooms will be flooded by the dancing public, and the
tho!t?s r"d rrn;-5.men. houses viWbe packed to th;-!r utmost capacity. Everything done will simply
be a detraction from the true purpose of the dav.
Ilo- aboi-t. the Churches, will they be fully occupied ? No. A few consecrated people will not
fo-"i'i' r'"d. ! ' r-t' -r to vor-ihin, bnt the gr.at majority will not, and religion will be relegated
i-to d's-nrd as a vo'ic of .he Antique.
Many will ask the question "What have I to be thankful for?" Before answering take a
retrospective view and ascertain for yourself.
Tl-Tcr-hn-t i1-" whn'e vorM the year jus4: c'osing has been one of blood shed and turmoil. While
the fertile riohts of Europe's agricultural districts have been converted into slaughter pens, and pools
of b'ood, of the best and ablest men of the contept'nn- armies. United States hns remained at ponce.
True. ; that, many times critical momea ,s have arrived when it seemed as though war could
nor be averted, and our country must be forced to make the inevitable punge into the struggle.
True. ;t is. tjbnt ve have seen indnntr;-'l s'r ties being wage! between the strugiíliní labor,
nnd Gian.' corporations, many times threatening dUtistrous results. Yet we have seen these critical
moments pass, without doing harm, and prosperity and plenty reigns instead.
In (Mu- o 'n county, Union county, New Mex'-o. Ho-" abou us. Have you thought of the sim
ilar't" of yov.r situation as compared with those of yo-ir forefathers. The populace of this country
is mti'e up principally of men and families who have come from every where that they might secure
homes of their own on the undeveloped lands of th's state and be free from the land lords of the old
v ealthy thickly settled communities, where competition was ux great for anyone to accumulate.
The seasons have been right and most of the farmers have been prospered and many are now situated
among plenty. , .
Zc:h bc'nT the caselet us give credit, and praise where they are due; not to an individual, cor
porntion or political party, but to Him who holds the destiny of men and NaUon3 as it were in the
pa'm of his hnnd. Render thanksgiving and praise for pas i b'essings hopefully face the future, and
presenes untarnished the heritage of our forefathers, Thanksgiving Day.
KEY PAPCEL FOST RATES
REDUCE HIGH LIVING
CHAMP CLARK TO ALSO URGE
FEDERAL LAW FORBIDDING
VEAL AS FOOD
Chicago, Nov. 28. The diet squad
which is undergoing a two weeks'
test to help establish an economical
standard of living, and to prove that
palatable and nutritious meals can be
served for no more than 40 cents a
day, has been fed for a week at net
cost for food consumed of 33 2-3
cents a person each day. On this diet
the squad has gained a total of twenty-seven
pounds.
The first week of the test was fin
ished tonight. A statement of food
consumed, purchased at random at
retail stores in the downtown dis rict.
shows that the total cost for food for
twelve persons was $28.28. Of this,
$2.13 was for fruit, mos.ly upóles,
oranges and dried fruits. ' Vegetables
.cost $4.10, the chief item being a peck
of potatoes at 59 cents.
Figures Not High
Staples, including flour, molasses,
''ten. coffee pud brenkfan. cereals, cost
. $7.72 of. whVh $1.C5 was for twenty
pound of sugar a"d $133 for one
eighth of a barrel of flour. Three
. pounds of coffee cost 81 cents. But
ter eres and cheese cost $1.52. Fish
added $1.07.
The most expensive article of diet
. was the mea:, of which $10.08 worth
was purchased. Twenty-four loaves
of bread cost $2.40 and thirty-five
quarts of milk brought the expenses
up $3.15. There are $6.89 worth of
supplies on band, making the actual
cost of food consumed $28.28.
Tomorrow's menu:
Breakfast: Baked apples, French
toast, coffee.
Lunch: Clnm chowder, corn bread
and butter, Hunter's pudding, lemon
sauce, tea.
Dinner: Spaghetti soup, meat pie,
succotash, bread and butter, prune
jelly, tea.
Recipe for Pudding
Recipe for hunter's pudding: One
cup finely chopped suet, one cup mo
lasses, one cup milk, three cups flour,
one and one-half teaspoons salt, one-
half teaspoonful each cloves, mace.
allspice, one teaspoon cinnamon, one
and one-half cups raisins, two table
spoons flour. Mix and sift dry in
gradients, add molasses and milk to
, suet, combine and add raiains, which
. have been floured, turn into a greased
! mould cover and steam three hours.
STOCK CAMPAIGN
BRINGS GOOD RESULTS
PROGRESS OF EQUITY IN UNION
COUNTY. STOCK CAMPAIGN
RESULTS IN GAIN. $8,000 IS
RAISED TO DATE
The special stock campaign for
ncmbers an.l capital is resulting in a
-surprising rally to the standard of
Equity. Nine meetings' so fur have
Ven held in as many ''Locals," and
i total- of $S000 s'.'C ired to put into
he business in Clayton.
New members al.o are being sign
d at every meeting and the farmers
re up on their toes at the prosnects
f one of the bv;es. businesses in
Jnion County bei.if; developed here.
National orTan'rer, H, ('. Morris
s preaching EiuHy in lar ire doss.
-1 bns vh'ab!e figures to prove that
"tjity hns e"cr proved one of the
ihief ns1"' ;n the !e":timnte growth
nd development of the commun'i
here it operates.
The following article contributed b'-
Mr. Morris to the Gem State Rural,
shows something of the benefit Equity
s to the Minnesota farmers, and is
orewith printed by special permis
sion:
Rial Preparedness
ganic matter to develop the humus
conditions to where it becomes avail
able for the use of plant life. There
fore the farmers of this section have
been forced to adopt live stock as a
lnsie unit in the building up of their
industry.
O necount of very limited range
facilities '.he dairy type of cow has
become standard. "Old timers" say
s'ic lonUed a doubtful commodity at
first, bat our figures show that she
hns proved a bit ssiug in disfu'se. She
h is been imported by thousands and
bred U(j throueh rem ra ions until at
the pn-sent time she constitutes one
of the state's chief assets. She has
vindicated her eitir.cr.sh'p and forced
,he co-operative creamery on the
farmer!;, and duo to her humble cftu-t
bear on the owners of a certain pub
lic ball because the F. S. E. local
bought space for an ad on the new
drop curtain. However the men who
oppose the idea of- allowing the farm
ers to organze need not be taken ser-
Wasbington, Nov. 28. Officials of
the department of agriculture and the
postoflice department have agreed to
r.sk congress to provide for an exten
sive investigation of the high cost of
living, with a view to using .he par
cel post to bring the consumer and the
producer closer together. No defin
ite plan of action beyond requesting
funds for the inquiry have been form
ulated. The late session of congress appro
priated $10,000 for a parcel post ex
periment of foodstuffs but that 3 be
lieved to bo too small a sum for an
undertaking to result in adequate in
formation. Three general proposi
tions are suggested by friends of the
parcel post system:
1 That the postage of food stuffs
be lowered so as uo induce farmers to
supply the nearby markets.
Think Farmer a Victim
2 Enlarge the service out of cities
into rural communities where a spe
cialty is made of food products, and
3 Increase the size of food stuff
parcels from 50 to 100 pounds.
Department of agriculture officials
do not be'ievc that the farmer is
boosting the prices, hut, on the con
trary, is the victim equally with the
consumer, of the middleman.
Champ Clark, speaker of the house,
who returned to Washington today,
issued a statement taking issue with
Tfepresen'ative Fitzgerald, who would
apply an embargo on foodstuffs. The
sppaker believes that the high cost of
living is the direct result of a con
spiracy, which should be checked by
immediate and drastic action.
Nailed Ears to Door
"I believe there is a criminal con
spiracy to raise the price of certain
articles of food," said Speaker Clark.
"I do not refer to those staples which
have been affected by climatic condi
tions, but to o' hers, such as eggs and
butter. While I have not examined the
criminal statutes in their bearing up
on the snbect, it would seem that
there ought to be some way to reach
the conspiracy thru the law.
"In olden times, in England, the
man who conspired to boost food
prices was called a 'regis' er,' and the
people did not bother with appeal to
ously, since every fair minded man
will admit that any of these towns the law, but led the offender around
would be wiped off the map if ev- j to the blacksmith shop and nailed his
eiy farmer within Zo miles of town
". o..!.l mo- away. II is by-virtue of
tl-e f:u t fht the farmers have made
these fr.rms that the merchants are
ah" ; to do lvjs:ne?n. They theni-"l---es
cannot keep he town ";roing."
The farmer heve, as iii every place
in agricultural communities, is the
foundation for all the successful bus
ness enterprises of each civic center.
And the Minnesota farrier is coming
she hns set Ma mind very seriously own, as he properly should.
I IT,. I,.,a 9711 "f-imnr." n'
to .hink'mg along lines of further
co-operative effort.
A 'yo her re.-ord of established bus
im'sa h thro."i:i r the spotlight on co--n-r.T
ive ei"r"y hi n general way
has lightened the organization work
f o w F. S. E. For instance, here at
Ottertnil Inst year the dairy farmers
ere very short on feed and found it
necessary to anpease Mrs. Cow's ap
pe.ite with millstuffs. The local el-
! evators .ere, as usual, very proud of
i their bran and shorts, and at this
j juncture the Equity stepped into the
Co-operation is the Minnesota , breech. They 1;:' 1 in their mill feed
farmers' talisman. It has cast a at a net saving of three to four dollars
hereditary shadow before it until the a ton. With this four dollars a furm-
nsing generation of young farmers
ind its environments laid in the very
nleasant walks of co-operatve effort.
There are. over 4000 co-operative
creameries in Minnesota. The one
U Oterail distributed over $37,000 to
the farmers last year nad did over
$45,000 worth of business. -
If we bisect these figures it means
that there 4000 creameries did over
ninety millions of dollars business
and paid the patrons over 74 millions
of dollars in the year just passed.
This state is in the lake region with
a vengeance. There are over 1000
lakes in Ottcrtail county with names
and a place on the county map. Al
ways, in a lake country, the soil con
tains a liberal percentage of sand,
and this is no exception. Sandy Boils
require a liberal application of or-
er can pay his succeeding year
making him eligible for two years'
benefits in his society.
"Life is just one,, hing after an
other" says the 20th century seer;
so our Otertail Equity boys handled
carloads of flour in connection with
their mill-feed and netted a saving
of 25c to 45c per 100 lbs.
The latter price was their first sr.v
Ing, and the first price (25) repre
sents the saving they made AFTER
THE LOCAL MERCHANTS RE
DUCED THEIR PRICE.
On the whole, farmers look with
favor on the Equity movement and
conditions seem ripe here for organ
ization work, but as usual some few
of the business men are opposing
the move. At a certain nearby town
considerable pressure was brought to
ias ill ' farmers e'evators in
midi ip;i to his creameries, ware
houses, slock yards, etc., rnd what is
more remarkable and 'jtrnirs him as
a real pnsines man is tne fact that
he is cultivating loyalty to his organ
ration vo a snrnrisinr de-rrpp. And
v hat business man is not loyal to his
ovvn business?
Our Minnesota brother believes in
b'm Equity society ri"ht ' from the
cround up from the local to the na
ional, nnd ho is paying his dues
rifr'nt on time. Our national 'office
needs riv-e loyal support, because itr
best revem-o is from membership fees
and dues when paid promptly.
Hurrah for the Minnesota F. S. E.
ears to the door.
Every sta e legislature ought to
prohibit the sale of veal within the
state; it is not proper food, anyway.
"I intend to urge the passage at
'his session of congress of the Hamil
ton bill, prohibiting the interstate
shipment of veal, and propose to
write to the governor of Missouri
asking him to recommend that the
legislature prohibit the killing of
calves in Missouri."
Representative Fitzgerald is not
dismayed by the opposition which has
developed.
"The fW.ht for an embargo has not
yep begun," he said today.
Ttery-Stoddard
It was quuc a surprise to many of
the friends of Mrs. Emma Stoddard
to learn of her marriage to J. L.
Tiery a prominent merchant of Ala
moosa, Colorado, on Tuesday of last
week. The Citizen extends them con
gratulations and wishes them a long
r id happy life.
CARD OF THANKS
The Sisters of St. Francis wish to
thank the many kind friends who gave
them such sympathy and aid in the
recent illness and death of their be
loved Sister Paula.
W. O. Kirby, of Kenton, Oklahoma,
Tuesday of ths week.
W. A. King one of the contractors
here is erecting a nice brick room
ng house back of the old Bushncll
residence. This will be a modem es
tablishment nnd will be quite an addi
tion to that end of the town.
Charles Hawkins, Charles Suthers
and Leek Wamsley spent the fore
part oft he week quail hunting and
brought in several dozen quail as íhe
result of their good shooting.
Mrs. Perkins was in the city the first
of the week shopping.
Ora Taylor of Stead, was attending .
to business matters here Monday of
this week.
E. L. Subblcfield, of Wilkins, Okla.
was in the city the first of the week on
business.
We regret very much to announce
that Rev. J. Q. Herrin, pastor of the
First Baptist Church here, has been
called to Las Cruces to take charge of
the work there. We extend to both.
Rev. and Mrs. Herrin, our best wishes
for success and happiness in their new
field of work. This couple has been of
inestimable value to our community
and our loss is decidedly a gain for
Las Cruces. So far as we have learned
it is not known at this time, who will
fill his place here.
i j, , w' . ; . " a- . ? ' V
' ' '- ...A
