I
9he Pueumeari Jiews
ft Adrertbern Know Where to ft
ft Place Their Ada ft
ft
ft
0 ft
Largest Circulation of Any ft
0 Caper In Quay County ft
ft
AND TUCUMCARI TIMES
VOL. XV.
TUCUMCARI, QUAY COUNTY, NEW MEXICO, THURSDAY, NOVEMHER 30, I91G
NO. 10
ARRANGEMENTS BEING MADE
TO HOLD A BIG SEVEN-DAY
CHAUTAUQUA IN TUCUMCARI
Tucumcnri Is to have u Chautauqua
-Mr. W. E. Welch, tt representative I
of the Redputh-Horncr Chnutuuquus
met with the Commcrciiil Club Tucs-
day night uiul discussed plans where-
by a Chnutuuqun might he brought to
,1.1. nil.. lfl.1 lifnnnutf !... 11. Ill 1 . 1
.ma .ll.jr. win .,u.v.iitiun i.i .v.. I
favorably received and the men pros-
ent suggested that a body of not less
than twentyfive citizens of Tucumcnri
i.u asKeti 10 uuck me proposition as
guarantors, and authorized the secrc-1
tary, Mr. Rny Z. Royer, to assist in
piomoung mis innuinuqim.
This is a $2500 Chautauqua. The '
Chautauqua people ask that the citi-
zens of Tucumcnri sell 531 season tick-
ets at 3.00 each as n II rat ticket sale.
The citizens will receive 50 per cent of '
all sales of season tickets above $1000.
The program for the Chautauqua
will consist of seven dnys with two
programs each day, to be Held in a
largo tent furnished by the Chautau
qua people.
Among the attractions are William,
Rainey Uennott, Sec. of the Interna
tional Lyceum Association, Thomas
Ilrooks Fletcher, who will lecture on
"Community Deadheads" and is one
of the best attractions ever brought
to Tucumcnri; Edward Amherst Ott,
lecture .subject "The Spenders." Lou
i:eauchamp, Ex-Gov. Patterson, of Ten
nessee, and William Jennings Rryan.
Among the musical attractions offer
ed on this program arc Ellis' Hawaiian
Orchestra, The Killarney Lndies Sex
tette, The Guardsmen, n Mnlc Sextette,
the Metropolitan Artists, the Play Lit
tle Women, with nine of the 13 orig
inal New York City Cast, and best of
all a full and complete presentation of
Gilbert and Sullivnn's opern. "PINA
FORE" This company consists of 10
people, has principals and chorus, or
chestra and musical. director, and real
ly wonderful scenery, even the ship
will appear on the stage during the
performance. Perhaps the most won
derful of all this is the fact that sev
en of the principal soloists nro tho
samo as appeared in .the New York Hip
podrome. Miss Marie Hogan, singing i
tho part of Ruttcrcup. A complete
writcup of the program will appear
later.
Tucumcari is fortunnte in securing
such an array of well known talent as
is offered on this program. This was
made possiblo because the following
business and professional men believe
in Tucumcnri and hnve signed a con
tract cnlling for a sale of tickets 531
amounting to $1000.
A. D. Goldenbcrg, D. J. Finegan, J.
W. Corn. U. S. Devor, Hawkins & May
William Troup, Alldredge & Saxon,
Joseph Israel, C. H. Kittson, Tucum
iiri I.iirhL & Power Co.. bv Fred C.
Sickles, Mgr., T. A. Mulrhead & Co..
H. Goodman, II. R. Jones. Adolph Yor-,
enberg, W. A. Foyil. S. M. Wharton j
Ira K. Furr, R. P. Donohoo, Sands-1
Dorsoy Drug Co., C. M. Stimuli. IT. !
Iloncm, II. C. Mnrkhnm, C. R. Kamil-,
ton. C. S. Shaw, R. A. Dodson. W. A.
Collins. t
OFFICIAL COUNT ALMOST
FINISHED IN CALIFORNIA
Sacramento, Cal., Nov. 25. Figures
tubulated nt the office of the secretary
of state today when the canvass of
San Fruncisco county's returns for
presidential electors had been compil
ed, showed that the highest democratic
elector hnd n margin of 3,800 votes
over tho highest republican in thu vote.
Figures were: J. Francis Heney, high
est democrnt, -100,200; J. F. Cnrlston,
highest republican, -102,301. The low
est democratic elector, Mrs. Cnrrio L
Tyler, was found to have 403,01 votes
or n nmrgln of 1,227 over the highest
,,., ' ,. .,, , i
republican. These figures do not in
elude the amended vote of Orange
county, where the nddition of tho vote
of n missing p icinct is said to make a
dinVrence of thirty-thrco votes in fa
vor of the republican electors.
While the nbovo results have not
the secretar7of ftto ItaJ M-
ored correct and.it is not expected the
result of tho canvass when officially
iicen accorded official certification by
Tof the'inSvo 'of SvS'
mccment of the official vote of
Uitc Is not expected before Sun-
MISSOURI IS DEMOCRATIC
Jefferson City, Mo., Nov. 28. A re
vision of tho list of newly elected I
members to tho general assembly made
by Secretary of State Roach, decreases ' tho eCcting of nil the new stato offl
ine Democratic majority in tho house ccrs Thoy hol,i Ul0 balance of power
oy one but leaves tho sennto unchang-; nna lt is p to tho pnrty lemlor8 to
wl. The revised count shows: Sennto ick their strongest and clounest men
Democrats 20, Republicans 8; IIouso;ir lhoy oxpcct to wni JuBt nny 0id
Democrnta 77, Republicans 05. , iMng (on.t K0 unywi,crc In tho U. S.
I Tho people want good men nnd while
TO STRAIGHTEN A RROOM J they do not nlways get them they
Tako n pail of boiling water and corn . enmo very near cleaning the platter
plotely immerse tho straw end of tho J thli year.
broom for ten minutes. After tho Tho people hnve great confidence In
straws have bocomo completely soak-1 Jones And you can sco by tho voto thnt
ed, withdraw tho broom and Buspcnd ho wns tho recipient of the largest
it by tho handle. voto of nny of tho candidates.
V. S. AWARDS TWENTY-NINE
SUBMARINE CONTRACTS
I
Washington, I). C, Nov. 29. Sec-'
rotary of the navy Daniels today gave ,
. 1 i I .
omULS HIT til CMUHl UUIUI1CU linil IWII
sou ton fleet submarines.
Eighteen coast defence submersible
went to (he Electric Rout compnny nt
?(i'Ji,U(Kl cacli; six to the LaUe Torpedo .
i0at company at $094,000; three to
i,0 Cnlifoinin Shipbuilding company'
on Lake designs, at $098,000.
One fleet .submarine went to the
Klecti if lloat Company at $1,180,000
, th,. ther to the Lake company at
1,105,000.
Some minor modifications remain to
,o fixed but the navv denartment has
insisted upon certain features of con-1
struction. I
All the bids are close to the limit.
It will be about two years before the
first of the ships are delivered to the
government.
ANOTHER GIRL TRIES
Amboy, 111., Nov. 28 Miss Mnttie ,
Crowder of Kansas, Illinois hns been
cho.ien as successor to Mary Smith I
as $10,000 housekeeper of the lone
some farm James Parkhurst an-!
)olno)1(, t(J(,ay M,M Smith U0 chi
rngo-hred stenographer, chosen by Mr. 1
Parkhurst and his wife a year and '
four months ngo to be their house
keeper and daughter in return for '
which she was to receive $10,000 at
their death, could not accustom her
self to the life and surroundings of
tho Unm. mm Crow;Ior wns sciccted
from among the 1,500 who applied
when the old couple advertised first.
T
2,
The ollicinl count in New Mexico
mve-4 Wilcnn Ihn nlntn liv n Innit nf
more than two thousand. Felix Gar-'
cia 33,112; .1. N. Upton 33,121; Jose I
G. Chaves 32.075, Democrats. H. J.
Hnmmond 30,531; Juan Ortiz 30,580; I
C. L. Kill .10,07.1. Republicans.
A. A. Jones, democrat, received 33,-1
031; Frank A. Hubbell, republican, re-!
ceived 30.200. Jones lead over Hub- j
bell was. 3,335.
W. H. Walton, democrnt. for dele-1
.Kate in congress, received 32,070; B.
('- Hernandez, R., 32.030. Walton lead
" !
For governor, E. C. dc Raca, demo-,
crat. received 32,100; H. O. Rursum.
republican, 30,510; de Raca's lead wns
lr,20. !
For Lieutenant Governor, W. C.
.McDonald, democrat, received 31,137;
W. E. Lindsny, republican, 32,330. Mr
I.indsav won bv 893 votes.
For Secretary of State Antonio Lu-!
'ruin, democrat, received 32,48-1; Gil-1
berto Mirabal, republican, 30,883. Lu-,
cero's lead was 1001.
For Auditor, Miguel A. Otero, dem-'
ocrat, received 31,582; W. G. Sargent,
republican, 32,133. Sargent's lend was
551.
' For Treasurer H. L. Hall, democrnt,
I received ."3,151; Gregory Page, repub
lican, 30,738. Hall's lead wns 2143. '
i For Attorney General Harry L. Pat-
ton, democrnt, received 32,380; Frank
- Clancy republican, 32,000. PattonV
U.,'m'-I ,,,,,,,
Superintendent of Public Instruction
was tho closest contest. J. L. G. Swln
noy, democrat, received 31,058; J. II.
Wagner, republican, .12,030, Icnving n
difference in Mr. Wngner's favor of
only 72.
For Commissioner of Public Lands,
George A. Davisson, democrnt, was de-
S'&fc SliTSTvntat
"lnV- 1 ' v,f ' Mr Frvln
'V?1'0"; Ic"VlnK Mn Ervin
Jurt S of the Supreme Court.
.tmMi rnL
HcW ,occivc'1 3,'588S Robcrl8
32,379,
I For Cnrnoratinn Commissioner Ron.
ifncio Montoyn, democrnt, received 32,
501; Molnquias Mnrtinez, republican,
31.100. Montoyn's lend being 1,458.
Tho foregoing returns show thnt tho
1 i,if.nnn,1pn vni,,i- nf Movl .11.1
AMARILLO TOURISTS PASS
THROUGH FROM LAS VE(!AS
W. T. Stanberry, of the Amarillo
Dally News, and R. A. llabb, also of
Amarillo, were Tucumcari visitors to
day. They were on their way home
from Las Vegas and were trying out
the new extension of the Ozark Trail.
They said the road between Tucum
cari and Hanley was the worst on the
route. Tucumcnri gets more cussing
than all the other towns in the world
and all on account of the bad roads.
People like to come here, but they
enn't enjoy the trip the way the road
now is, but wait awhile and perhaps
when Tucumcari is as old as some of
the other towns she will enjoy good
roads in nil directions.
Mr. .Stnnl.erry was well pleased with
our country and if wo will make the
roads better so an autoist can make nt
least 20 miles an hour all the way.
the road will be kept warm with tour
ists. It takes money to build roads
and it takes men who know how to
build roads to use the money to the
best advantage.
COMMERCIAL CLUB
HOLDS 8IG MEETING
The Commercial Club met Tuesday,
Nov. 28, at the Court House and there
were n goodly number of boosters and
pushers present. II. lloncm, vice press
dent, presided in place of Mr. Mulr
head, who was out of town and could
not be present. Minutes of the Inst
meeting read and approved and the
membership committee reported the
acquisition of 51 new members since
the organization u few days ago. This
boosts the membership to more than
100, but it is the object of the new or
ganization to not quit t.o!icitiug mem
bers until the number has been in
creased to tako in every man in Tu
cumcari who is for the upbuilding of
the town nnd county. There will bo
members from nearly alt the leading
communities in the county if tho pres
ent plans arc can led out.
The by-laws committee reported anil
read a Constitution that had been
drafted. Report was tabled and com
mittee instructed to report further
next meeting.
Oznrk Trails delegates, Street, Corn,
and Uoyer, who attended the meeting
at Oklahoma City last week, told of
the wonderful things they saw in the
City nnd reported what was accom
plished at the convention. Ways ami
means of securing money to put Quay
county ronds into butler condition wore
discussed. Those present favored a
bond issue of sufficient amount to put
all main traveled roads in county in
ondition. It was reported that a move
ment had already been started by the
farmers in the county for a bond is
sue nnd plnns of co-operation' were
discussed and a committee appointed
to make estimates of cost on road con
struction, and to submit such estimate
of cost at a later meeting.
Mr. W. E. Welch, representing the
Redpnth-Horner Chautauqua present
ed u proposition to hold n chautuuqua
here next summer and it struck a fa
vorable spot. The appointment of Mr.
Uoyer was made to assist in finding
out whether the citizens wanted to
back such a move.
Chus. T. Unas, who was foreman at
the bear grass factory here when it
was in operation, was present with
namples of fibre made from tho green
grass which he had manufactured by
the use of small machines he made
nil proposed to disclore his process
if a stiK'tt company could lie formed to
finance the proposition. He Ktated his
case clearly and it was received with
pleasure. If his plans are followed It
would not take a great deal of money
to begin with. After it had proven
itself to be successful, there would be
no lack of capital to build a big fac
tory. Ry using Mr. Haas's process it
would be possible to cultivate bear
grass and harvest it every year, lt
is native and grows without rain, nnd
it would not be necessary to cultivate
it much. Tho blades are cut from the
crown with u knife nnd could be bound
in bundles, allowing a common wagon
to carry nt least a ton at a load. It
was thought it would easily bring one
cent or nearly thnt much, per pound.
That would mean much to tho farmer
during the fall nnd winter months
when work is slack. Mr. Haas agreed
to turn out sufficient amount to end
samples to fibre concerns for their
opinion ns to quality and prices.
Tho meeting ndjourned subject to
call of President.
Much work is needed during tho com
ing yenr and every citizen of Tucum
cari and Quay county, who is desirous
of putting their shoulder to tho wheel
and mnking this city nnd county big
ger nnd better, should not wait for
tho soliciting committee to call upon
them, but nro asked to call nt Mr.
Royer's offico nnd signed up the mem
bership enrd.
Of course dipt. Kncnig didn't want
to start tho Dcutschlnnd back until ho
knew who had been elected President.
GOODMAN SPREADS OUT
OTHERS .MUST MOVE
H. Goodman is spreading out, as it
was supposed he would when he came
to Tucumcari. Hu is not content with
one store room. He is having a large
wure-room erected on the back of the
lot now occupied by his grocery store.
Hu has leased the adjoining store-room
anil will take possession of same the
flrht of the year.
Mr. Goodman said he was not tell
ing just now what he would put in the
other room, but the people of Tucum
cari may well expect him to fill it with
good salable mcrchnndihc. Ho is a' London. Nov. 28. Marked by the
firm believer in the prosperity of New 1 most extreme simplicity, in accord
Mexico and Tucjmcari. He came here ance with the late inventor's wishes,
because he liked it better than any 1 the funeral services over the body of
other town in the state. He intends to Sir Hiram Maxim, who died November
make his home here and this new ad- 21th, were held at noon today. There
dilional store room may not be all be j were no flowers anil no crepe. No
will spread out before many months. , official representative from number-
The Ridley barber shop will move to less societies and organizations which
the room now occupied by tho Severe Sir Hiram was a member of, was
Millinery Store. The room is .some- present. The coffin, made of plain
what small but it is the best Mr. Rid- oak, was carried to the West Norwood
ley could find. cemetery ehapel in an automobile.
Mrs. Severe docs not know where
ulwt 11111 mfil'n 111.' u(fiir (. tit tmili
... ...ix. . 1 null i . .-. null).
every building in town Is now occu
pied. The business buildings are as
scarce as residences. It means some
money will be in demand next year
for the erection or nice business blocks i
and the investment would be a good
one.
GOVERNMENT OWNERSHIP
Washington, Nov. 28. Government"
ownership of railroads is inevitable
If I M fll . 1 . .
.uutu .. .nom.eownse mr me Ainer-
.can railway executives' advisory com-
muB, imiiiy u, i uie eo. gro,s.onni lt,ni tl)e Stato Tcachc.s Association,
committee investigating the whole. T)e un)ht,r was sixlv ,, thcy re.
subject of transportation, unless con.ct.m, thu )lmnur for h ., travelu(,
gross takes measures o relieve the , lhe most nKKrt,K!lic nliItiH.
roads from dual regulation by states i M()St ,)f the tcachers hail ruturnwl
and federal government ami to. emedyThurS(lay ni ht rcporte(1 an
Present conditions, Mr. Thorn told
the Fenators nnd representatives, can
not continue. "Unless these things
are accomplished in my opinion, the
time is short between prlvnte and gov
ernment ownership."
E
LIBERAL IN SETTING
DELINQUENT DATES!
On account of the late arrival of I
the books and other necessarv articles '
for the County Collector to 'begin his !
work, the commissioners have extend
ed the delinquent date to Feb. 1, in
tend of December 31. This will nl
!nw those who desire to do so, an op
lortunity to keep their tax money
mother mouth and delay the collcc-
inns of taxes in this county, but Quay j 'i number of laws in the interest of
ropcrty owners are i'ways ready to education in this stale. The resolu
donate their share to the running of i tons, it was believed, would be adopt
be county, state and government nf- ed with little discussion,
"airs and when they receive their no-, Summed up, the umendments urged
ideation that they can pay their tax- by the educators of New Mexico are
e.i there is no doubt but the Collector I -is follows:
will be tho busiest man in the coun- i The prohibition of ulcoholoc drinks,
try. Money is more plentiful in liii-- The extending of suffrage without
ounty than usual but most of us like regard to sex.
to wait until the Inst day to pay our ' Making the office of state school
bills, and taxes arc no exception. superintendent an appointive one.
Elimination of county school super-
GREAT UNION MEETING j.itendent offices from politics and mak-
On Sunday evening, December 10th,
at 7:00 o'clock all tho churches in town
will meet in the Center Street Meth
odist Church for a Union Service. The
It. Y. P. U. of the liaptist church, the
Spworth League of the Methodist
hureh. the Cliris! inn l!nilo;iVfii' nf thn i
Presbyterian church and the Young wns as follows:
People of the Dif-ciples Church will : Authorization of appointment of a
have charge of the program for the school supervisor.
welling. ' Increasing appropriation for depart-
A subject of world-wide interest has ment of education.
ieen chosen for discussion and every ' Equalization of school levies in all
one is invited to attend the service counties.
ind enjoy tho entertainment. j Election of school boards and di-
The theme to be developed is, "Chris rectors in the fall and not nt a genernl
tianity." ior at a legislative election.
First: It will be compared to other Appointment of one business man
.ellglons as Mohammedanism, Hindu-, and one city school superintendent on
sm, Ruddnsm and Confucian. ?m. the board of education.
Second: Tho part Christianity has Passing of a teachers' retirement act
olnyod in world progress or civillza- Urging on congress the nppropria
ion nnd its uplift of womanhood. , lion of one million acres of govern-
Third: Christianity in America; in ment land in this state for cducutionnl
Temperance Reform; in Education; . needs.
.ind in a Spirit of Rrothcrhood. Help in the battle to eliminate ill it.
Fourth: Christianity for tho Indi-,eracy.
Muni in its Redeeming Power and '
keeping power. Tho answer to thu U. S. POPULATION 113,309.285
oft-asked question. "What is Chris- Washington, D. C, Nov. 29. Popu
tinnity?" will bo given under tho ns-Ration estimates of each of tho United
-ertlon that, Christianity is Christ." States for Janunry 1, 1917, ns deter
Muslc, in varied and beautiful forms mined by the burenu of census which
will be a feature of tho evening. A based its calculations upon the increase
combined choir from all tho Young
Peoples' hocletfcs will render special
songs and choruses.
Miss Gnrdnor will sing a solo, Mr.
Ralph Paddock will play a violin solo,
Mr. Jnckson nnd Mrs. E. Pack will
sing the lovely duet, "His Plan," nnd
other delightful numbers.
Wutch for entiro program next week
Mrs. RIchnrd Coulson nnd her noph-
ew, Sergt. Robt. Pcnrcc, of Louisville,
Ky., now stationed nt Fort Rllss, with
tho 1 0th Provisionnl Division, N. G
nro visiting Mr. nnd Mrs. C. M. O'Don-
el, nt tno ueu Knr.ch for a few days."
WHEAT STEADILY DECLINING
LOCAL MARKET HOLDING FIRM
PAYS MORE THAN HUTCHINSON
SIR HIRAM MAXIM DEAD
SIMPLE I'UNERAL CONDUCTED
JACK PULLEN SECOND
MISS SHAFF FOURTH
IN STATE CONTESTS
Qu c()Unt sent .i.rto,, of
tenchcrH to Snnln this W(.ek t0 llt.
excellent time and well pleased with
banta res hospitality.
Our orator, Jack Pullen, came near
bringing home 1st place, and it may
yet lie decided that he has won it. As
it now stands Jack is sure of second
with only 0-10ths of one per cent be
hind tho first place.
Miss Shaff was declared the best
in the declamatory contest by the au
dience but the judges got into a se
rious squabble and it ended in her only
receiving fourth. She was first said
to have won second with n youn-r lady
from hast I.as Vegas first, lt was
that two of the judges were from
Las Vegas. If so there is noth-
so strange about the Vegas girl
winning first, it is n well-known tact
that Miss Shaff is good enough to mnke
the best of them hustle and if she only
was entitled to 4th place there were
sonu' miKht' oml ren,h,r in ,hc co"-
1 Resolutions are Dry and Timely
I Resolutions were offered by Dr. D.
R. Hoyd. as charman of the resolution
.ommittee, urging drastic amend
ments to the state constitution and rec
immending that the legislature pas--
ing them appointive like city superin-
lendents,
Installation of a budget .system for
the administration especially of af
fairs of education.
Legislation asked of the solons who
culher here in Jnmiurv. summer! mi
as shown by the- federal censuses of
1900 and 1910, have just been nnnounc
ed. New York is tho largest with 10,-
.1(10,778; Pennsylvania Is second with
8.591,029; Illinois third with 0,19.1,020.
Nevada is tho smallest with 108,730;
Arizonn has 259,000; New Mexico has
410,900.
Quito n number from here nro In
Santa Fe this week attending tho State
Tcachers Association. Jack Pullen nnd
Miss Junnitn Shaff, contestants In tho
oratorical and declamatory contests,
arc in Santa Fc. Their many friends
hope they will be roturned winners.
Wheat has been steadily declining
on thu maiket for the past week on
account of various reasons, but the
Tucumcari market has held firm. Mr.
Higday, the local buyer, received sev
eral loads of wheat last Friday. Thoe
bringing in wheat from the plains last
Friday were J. W. Jolly. J. E. Mc
Kee, J. M. Longford, H. II. Steiuba
gen, J. J. liostick, J. (). Jordan.
The price paid Friday was $1.77.
and the sumo was paid Saturday, but
.Monday it dropped 12 cents, going to
.SI. 05 where it has since remained.
J. M. Suter, W. It. Hrant, F. M. Me
Clusky. S. F. Green, Roy Green and
J. H. Gray were in Mondny witli big
loads of wheat and sold it for $1.05.
Tuesday R. M. McClusky two loads.
W. W. Sparks. J. L. Rrissey. M. R.
Hail. Walter Hailey, M. F. Huttrum,
E. F. True, C. N. Denton, S. A. Wells,
E. L. Klingsporn, C. W. Dean brought
in 22,310 pounds and received $1.05.
Mr. Higday is also buying a largo
amount of beans. Oh the 21th he lc
ceived 0,580 pounds and paid out over
$500 for same. One man. H. I). Davis
brought in a load containing 2750 lbs.
He received $220 for the load.
E. R. Sprinkle, E. S. Paddock, J.
W. Jolly, T. M. Webb. Wm. Ilrown
were here with beans last Friday.
J. P. Smith was in Saturday with
a nice load containing 1720 pounds.
Monday T. A. Hardin. W. W. Sparks
C E. Christy, W. M. Rrown nnd W.
C. Wells brought in 3910 pounds.
Wednesday M. II. McClure brought
in 2070 pounds and was paid $105.00
for same. Others bringing in beans
Wednesday were T. M. Webb. R. F.
Sparks. J. A. Garrett and H. C. Ste
vens. Resides those hauling benns and
wheat to town there nrc big loads of
maize heads coining in from all di
rections. Heads are brnging $25.0(1 a
ton. Roans 8c a pound. Wheat $1.05
per bushel.
If the roads were better to the
south Tucumcnri would suro got her
share of grain as the buyer? nrc pay
ing tho price nnd farmers are well sat
isfied with everything but (he rough
roads they are forced to come over to
bring their products to Tucumcnri to
sell.
Y. M. C. A. SPEAKER IS
COMING TO TUCUMCARI
This week a letter was received by
tlie Chamber of Commerce from W.
H. Day, who conducted the campaign
in Tucumeari for .-ubscriptions toward
a Y. M. C. A. building, requesting
that arrangements be made by the
Tucumcari Y. M. C. A. committee mi l
the Tucumcari pastors for an engage
ment some time in February for one of
their International workers "Dig Ma
son," who is now making a speaking
tour in the Southwest. Accordingly,
the pastors of Tucumcari anil the orig
inal Y. M. C. A. Committee, composed
of W. Wntkins, E. S. Paddock. W. L.
Walters, S. A. Ramsdale. Scotty Nich-
ols. W. '. Amelon and J. II. Hackett,
were called together last Tuesduj ev
ening and nfter considering thu mat
ter, voted to have Mr. Mason visit Tu
cumcari.
Mr. Mason weighs 350 pounds nnd
Mr. Days states that ho is the best
speaker for Railroad men thnt the
M. C. A. has discovered. He is em
ployed constantly by the Rnilroad' De
parfincnt of the International Com-mit-Fe.
His home -n in Michigan nnd
hi" headquarters are in New York
City. He has Incn worl ing fo.- lb-
past two months in the Southwest
vith wonderful suecos
Mr. Day advised of the committeeV
lecisiou in the mntter and another
letter has been received from Mr. Day
stating that Mr, Mason will be here
at some dnto around February 21 to
28th. He will remain in Tucumcari
one week holding noon meetings in the
shops, and evening meetings in the dif
ferent churches, or in some suitable
hall as may be decided Inter. It is an
ticipated that Mr. Mason will be well
received by Tucumcnri's entire citizen
ship.
"WORK, OR WALK"
Mr. J. L. Henrn, who has the con
tract for tho erection of the Hotel
Glcnrio, gives employment to every
mnn who will work. Those who de
cline to work nro Invited to walk. Mr.
Ileum 1','S employment for other car
pentersno idle men in this town.
The erection of several other build
ings are contemplated hero this win
ter nnd spring, which will furnish stea
dy employment to carpenters nnd work
men. "Work or Walk" is tho slogan
at Glcnrio. Tribune Progress.
Mrs. Chus. Lackland and son, nnd
Miss Esther Stntham, who hnvo been
visiting relatives at Palestine, Texns,
St. Louis and other points in Missouri,
for several months, returned homo last
Sunday night. Thcy report it cold
in Missouri and they were glad to re
turn to the "sunshine" stato.
