VOL. 33, NO. 36.
SUBSCRIPTION, $1.50 PER YEAH
HEPPNER RITTER
15
COMPLETE
lirldne Across John Pay Finished
And Federal Aid Will lie Ask
ed For Improvement of Iload
Through Forest Reserve.
Itoad Means Much to
Hitter.
SCHOOL NOTES
There is now direct road connec
tion between Heppner and Ritter.
After several years of agitation and
after more recent hard, consistent
work, the greater part of which was
donated by public spirited citizens of
the Hitter communr.y,, the road has
become a reality.
The north fork of the John Day riv
er has been bridged and Ritter is now
35 miles closer to market than ever
before. The road is a most natural
one, being on a water grade the en
tire distance. Leaving Heppner, the
highway goes up Willow creek, across
the summit and down Ditch creek to
tlia John Day river. In the entire
distance there are only two steep
pulls, one is out. v,f t'jO Willow crook
basin and the other is up over the
hill out of the North Fork Into Rit
ter. The road opens up a rich terri
tory to Heppner and the substantial
donations made by Heppner business
men show they have not been slow
in realizing the value of the road.
Local men have subscribed nearly one
thousand dollars toward the -.omple-tion
of the Ritter road. "K'e last
donation was completed this week
when a committee from the Hepp
ner Commercial Club raised $286 as
Heppner's part toward the building
of the North Fork bridge.
About nine miles of the road pass
es through the National Forest Re
serve. Inasmuch as the Morrow
county court has offered to spend dol
lar for dollar for all the government
will spend, It is likely the Federal
Aid to Road Building commission will
be asked In a short time to assist In
improvements to this part of the road
ttassuiK through the reserve.
Th committee raisin funds for
the Rltter-Heppner bridge was in
charge of W. 0. Minor and In the
raising of this last contribution, Mr.
Minor deserves the larger part of the
credit. Those who contributed to the
fund were: First National Bank of
Heppner, $35; Sam Hughes Co., $10;
Gilliam & Blsbee, $15; Humphreys
Drug Co., $5; Thomson Bros., $15;
Wells Bros., $2.50; Patterson & Son,
$5; Oscar Borg, $5; Henry SchwarZ:
,$2.50; Oregon Garage, $5; Wnu Hay
'lor, $5; City Meat Market, $2.50;
Phelps Grocery Co., $10; Heppner
Milling Co., $15; Vaughn & Sons,
$15; E. G. Noble, $10; Albert Bow
ker, $5; Minor & Co., $15; Patterson
& Elder, $2.50; Phill Cohn, $15;
Heppner Light & Water Co., $15; W.
O. Minor, $10; McAtee.'ft Aiken,
$7.50; C. A. Minor, $10;' W. B. Bar
ratt, $5; Guy Boyer, $5; Wm. Wilson,
$1; Wm. McRoberts, $2.fi0T Elkhorn
Restaurant, $2.50; City Bakery, $2.
50; L. R. Purkey, $1; O. K. Res
taurant, $2.50; Louis Pearson, $2.50;
C. E. Woodson, $5; Eastern Hotel,
$2; Wells & Nys, $2; Sam E. Van
Vactor, $2.50; A. D. McMurdo, $5;
Nelse Magnusen, $5; Farmers Union
Warehouse, $5.
In District No. 54, Miss Clarion A.
Lee is Hie t adicr. The em1 nluieut is
11. This district lias a., excellent
schoolhcuse. The lighting is correct,
the light being admitted from the
left side and the window space being
equal to one-fourth of the floor
space. The water Is kept in a closed
jar with a bubbler fountain attach
ment. Two framed pictures are on
the walls, and some more will be pur
chased soon. The heating and ventil
ating are correct, a Smith heating and
ventilating plant being used. The
school building and outbuildings have
been painted.
Mrs. B"ie Hineline teaches in the
Alpine ('''' riot. The enrollment Is
20. A new chair and fiesk have been
purchased for the teacher. A closed
tank is provided for the water sup
ply. Plans are under consideration
for changing tho windows so as to
give correct lighting. A number ot
Other Improvements will be made,
also. Some of th. pupils of this
school have dono excellent work in
the industrial work.
In Joint-District 5-52 Miss Alice
Wilkins is the teacher. The enroll
ment f3 eight. A new 'tank has been
purchased for the water ?upp!v. This
district hopes to build a new school
house In the near future.
At Morgan, Miss Echo Githens Is
the teacher. The enrollment is 17.
A new heating and ventilating plant
has just been Installed. One stand
ard picture has been purchased. A
basket ball outfit has been added to
the play apparatus, and the pupils are
making good use of It.
Miss Lera Githens teaches in Dis
trict No. 28. This school has a new
framed picture. Water is kept on
the stove to furnish moisture for the
atmosphere. A new barn and a new
outbuilding have been built recently.
The pupils were engaged in a lively
geography match when the writer vis
ited the school.
In District No. 15, Miss Pearl O.
Streeter is the teacher. The enroll
ment Is 13. This school Is provided
with a good stove, surrounded by a
good jacket. The windows are pro
vided with good window-boards, wa
ter Is kept on the stove, and a ther
mometer hangs In the room to aid In
the regulation of the temperature.
This school has three standard fram
ed pictures. The water Is kept In a
closed tank. An excellent book-case
Is provided for the library.
Miss Sylvia Severance Is the teach
er in District No. 53. The school is
small, the enrollment being seven.
New blackboards have been purchas
ed recently. The heating and ven
tilating are accomplished by a good
Jacketed stove and window-boards.
Water is kept on the stove. This
school has a good globe, a set of maps
and an International dictionary.
The library books of a few districts
are in the office. The writer visited
the schools In these districts before
the books arrived, hence he has not
delivered them. If some person from
each of these districts will call for
the books, the books may be sent to
the schools.
I
I President Wilsons Thanksgiving Proclamation j
i"y the President of the United States of America.
A Proclamation:
"It has long been the custom of our people to turn in
the fruitful autumn of the year in praise and thanksgiv
ing to Almighty God for his many blessings and mercies
to us as a nation. The year that has elapsed since we last
observed our day of thanksgiving has been rich in bless
ings to us as a people, but the whole face of the world has
been darkened by war. In the midst of our peace and
happiness our thoughts dwell with painful disquiet upon
the struggles and sufferings of the nations at war and
the peoples upon whom the war has brought disaster
without choice or possibility of escape on their part. We
cfiinot think of our own happiness without thinking of
their painful distress. ,
"Novr, therefore, I, Woodrow Wilson, president of the
Unite! States of America, do appoint Thursday, the thir
tieth day of November, as a day of national thanksgiving
and prayer, and urge and advise the people to resort to
their several places of worship on that day to render
thanks to Almighty God for his blessings of peace arid un
broken prosperity which he has bestowed upon our be
loved country in such unstinted measure. And I also urge
and suggest our duty in this, our day of peace and abund
ance, to think in deep sympathy of the stricken people of
the world upon whom the curse and terror of war has so
pitilessly fallen, and to contribute but of our abundant
means to the relief of their sufferings. Our people could
in no better way show their real attitude toward the
present struggle of the nations than by contributing out
of their abundance to the relief of suffering which war has
brought in its train.
"In witness, whereof, I have hereunto set my hand
and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
"Done at the city of Washington, this seventeenth day
of November, in the year of our Lord, one thousand nine
hundred and sixteen, and of the independence of the Uni
ted States the one hundred and forty-first.
"WOODROW WILSON" .
"By the President, EOBEBT LANSING,
Secretary of State.
Chas. B. Cox, west Heppner farm
er was a Tuesday business visitor in
Heppner. Mr. Cox is getting launch
ed into the farming business in good
shape. lie recently purchased the
Hani ranch and with the Her ranch,
which he rents, has a good proposition.
HENRYBUGKMANV1S1TS
FORMER HOME HERE
BUTTER GREEK HOME
SCENE OF WEDDING
NOTICE OK ANNUAL MKET1XG.
Notice is hereby given that the
annual meeting of the Galloway Tele
phone Company will be held in the
office of the Humphreys Drug Co.,
in the city of Heppner, Oregon, on
Saturday, December the 30th, 1916,
for the purpose of electing officers
and the transacting of such other bus
iness as may come before the meet
ing. D. O. JUSTUS, President.
Weds Hermiston Girl.
James Edward Warfield of lone to
day secured a license to wed Dottle
Wilds ot Hermiston. Pendleton
Tribune.
i ?
I Thanksgiving
BALL
THURSDAY, NOV. 30
AT THE FAIR PAVILION
Music by the Bungalow 'Orchestra of Portland
A Good Time Is Guaranteed
$1.80
TICKETS ' "
Henry Blackman, pioneer Heppner
merchant and at one time one of
Oregon's' foremost citizens, is up from
San Francisco this week looking af
ter business matters and visiting at
the home of Mr. and Mrs. Phill Cohn.
Mr. Blackman is feeling good over
the re-election of Woodrow Wilson
being a democrat and a staunch be-j
liever in Jeffersonlan principles. He
was prominent in city, county and
and state politics w hile residing here,
representing this district in the
state senate, served as mayor of
Heppner and was at one time col
lector of internal revenue under Gro
ver Cleveland's administration. Mr.
Blackman took a lead in Heppner's
industrial and civic life, and when
he and his good family left here for
Portland several years ago, the coun
ty lost one of its biggest and best
boosters. Mr. Blackman is now en
gaged in business in San Francisco.
His sons are scattered. Hep, the
cartoonist, is in Fort Worth, Texas,
Leo, the mining engineer, Is In Chile
South America and Abe Is traveling
salesman for a wholesale silk firm,
with headquarters in Los Angeles.
"Morrow County is a land of milk
and honey" said Mr. Blackman, in
referring to the four million dollar
wheat croD which was raised here
this year. "The people are prospe
rous, happy and contented. It if
truly a wonderful country."
Local Nimrods Successful.
Several local sportsmen attended
and participated in the big turkey
shoot at Pete Sheridan's on Butter
creek last Sunday. They were suc
cessful ' and brought home about
twenty turkeys and geese. S. W,
Spencer won the big prize of the
day, a twenty-four-pound turkey gob
bler. A large number of nimrods
from Pendleton, Echo, Stanfield and
Hermiston were also there. Those
who went down from Heppner were
S. W. Spencer, Thos. Brennan, Har
old and Henry Cohn, Dr. R. J.
Vaughn, Dr. A. D. McMurdo and B
R. Patterson.
The Morrow County Rod and Gun
Club will act as host to a similar af
fair In this city on the 17th of De
cember. At that time a large num
ber of snortjmen from Umatilla
county wiU, bo here as guestb
S. E. Notson, recently elected dls
trlct attorney, has taken offices In the
Roberts building. He will move his
office furniture and law books from
his old office In the court house early
in December.
The Butter creek home of Mr. and
Mrs. M. S. Corrigall was the scene of
a quiet wedding on Wednesday morn
ing at 11 o'clock when their daugh
ter, Miss Lucy, became the wife ofyf
Thomas O'Brien of Heppner. Rev,
BOARDMAN
John Mack, son of E. W. Mack, was
aken suddenly ill Tuesday. Dr.
.Vainscote' of Hermiston was called
by phone. x
J. C. Ballenger received a car of
lumber today.
O. H. Warner has commenced his
new livery barn.
F. F. Klitz is building a nice com
fortable room for his father-in-law,
Mr. Wheeler.
E. P. Dodd and Wm. Kennedy were
in town Monday in the interest of the
school election.
Mr. and Mrs. C. Voyen returned
Monday from Hermiston.
Mr. Tallman and L. Darley stopped
over night Monday on their way to
Portland by auto.
Quite an interesting school meet
ing was held in Castle Rock Monday.
Most of Boardman was there to help
elect a new director. Mr. C. C. Paine
was unanimously elected.
M0RRDWV1CTG
AT 610 COHN SHOW
Newlon Exhibit Wins Second Prize
In Grand Sweepstakes Event at
Walla Walla Corn Show".
POSTMASTER WILL
AID IN RECRUITING
Morrow county strengthened her
claim as a corn producing section
when W. D. Newlon was awarded sec
ond prize in the sweepstakes event at
the Walla Walla Corn Show last
week. The following letter was re
ceived by this office from Mr. Newlon
which tells of his prize winning ex
hibit. Walla Walla, Wash., Nov. 26.
The Gazette-Times,
Heppner, Or.
Gentlemen:
I am proud to say that my Mor
row county cord exhibit has won sec
ond prize in the sweepstakes event,
winning over hundreds of exhibits
from Idaho, Washington and other
parts of Oregon. I also won three .
other second prizes and one fifth
prize. This will help to put Mor
row county where it belongs, along
at the head with the rest of the best
counties in the state of Oregon.
Yours respectfully,
W. D. NEWLON.
Mr. Newlon's exhibit came from
corn grown on dry land under dry
farming conditions. The results that
have been obtained In the first year
are only indicative of what may be
done after a series of years.
Washington, Nov. 27 Postmasters
are to lend assistance to the United
States Marines In the securing of re
cruits and will be paid $5 for each ac
cepted applicant, according to an of
ficial announcement made by the Mar
jor General Commandant of that organization.
Hereafter the military-looking
youth who appears at the post office
may fail to be attracted by the gaily
colored poster depicting the life of a
Marine, but he can scarcely escape
the appraising eye of the postmaster
or the latter'g query, "Say, young fel
low why don't you join the Mar
ines?" "
Doubtless the young man with mil- I to-date. One feature is the plate
Itary inclinations will bring little ap-! glass doors leading off from the main
prehenslve shivers to his sweetheart hall way. This feature allows an
when ghe suspects bis frequent con- abundance of light to enter every cor
versations with the potmaster are rel- ner of every room. Tho office Is rleo
atire to the arrival and departure of mtetnrp with dressing robms for the -"males."
I convenience of patients.
Dr. Purkey Moves.
Dr. L. R. Purkey has taken office
rooms in the Roberts building where
he is now receiving his patients. The
new office rooms are thoroughly up-
j SALE! SALE! SALE! I
J. O'Rourne of St.. Patrick's rec
tory of Heppner performed the cere
mony in the presence of near rel
ativs and a few friends.
Immediately after the wedding the
young people left for Portland and
other points for their honeymoon trip
f several weeks. They will make
their home in Morrow county.
Mrs. O'Brien is tne eldest daugh
ter of Mr. and Mrs. Corrigall and a
very popular young lady of the But
ter creek section, where she has a
host of friends. Mr. O'Brien is a
sterling young man who came to Mor
row county nine years ago. During
the most of that time he has been in
the employ of Minor Bros., extensive
sheep and cattle men. We join with
their many friends In extending con
gratulations.
A bunch of fine Jersey heifers
and some other property which a lack of time
prevented us from selling last Saturday.
At John Hughes Ransh, 4 Miles Below Heppner
SALE BEGINS AT 1 P. M.
J. E. Hale, who has been connected
with the Minor & Co. store in this
city during the past year, has resign
ed his position and will move shortly
with his family to Echo, where he
has taken a similar position with a
merchandise store in that city.
FRANK PARKER, Owner; L E. MILLER, Auctioneer
m
rr i nr npii i ititiiti 3
Wfc Mil lilAiiiifUL ii
g
Searches For Lost Brother.
Postmaster Richardson received a
letter recently from a man in Con
necticut who is searching for a lost
brother, and asks Mr. Richardson for
any information he may be able to
give. The man in quest Is Thomas
Henry Reynolds and he was supposed
to have been herding sheep in Mor
row county during the summer of
1913. The letter from the brother is
as follows:
Postmaster, Heppner, Ore. v
Dear Sir:
I had a brother in your city In No
vember, 1913. His occupation was
herding sheep in the summer. His
name is Thomas Henry Reynolds,
age 30, height 5 feet, 10 inches and
weight about 175 pounds. His com
plexion is light, and he has red
cheeks. I have not heard from him
in four years and would appreciate
very much any information you could
give me of him, dead or alive.
I remain,
Sincerely yours,
BERNARD REYNOLDS,
174 Gregord St.,
Bridgeport, Conn,
for you sake, because our own prosperity depends on
what we do for you
THAT we have succeeded, as far as we have, in making
our business more of A HELP TO YOU;
THAT whereas we handle only RAW MATERIALS, yet
we are now equipped to help you make such a use of
those materials as will contribute to your comfort,
health and prosperity;
THAT we have been able to make ourselves, through our
Architectural, Engineering, Plan Book and Service
departments, an economic necessity to this community
and thus justify our being here in this business;
THAT we have passed the experimental stage of SER
VICE and can devote our efforts in the future to being
of still GREATER HELP TO YOU IN SOLVING ALL
OP YOUR BUILDING PROBLEMS;
THAT we can bring to pass your hopes of a home prop
erly heated, or a BARN or a SILO or ANY AND ALL
BUILDINGS;
THAT It is again "Turkey Time" and we hope that yours
will be large, fat, sweet and juicy;
AND WE ARE THANKFUL THAT WE CAN BE THANK
. PUL FOR ALL OF THESE THINGS.
R. F. WEIGEL, Mgr.
TUM-A-LUM LI MBER CO.
