TArtSv 3:3 -
l" . . . in imm-J
i MAILS
'From San Francisco!
China, Dec, 23.
For San Francisco:
:FIberla, Maru. Jan. J
From Vancouver:
Makurk, Jan. 24.
Tor Vancouver '-
'.MaKiira, Jan.' V
nv-n!nr Bulletin. Ht. 1SS2, No. .C
Hawaiian Star. Vol.XXIV. No. .1Q - r- -
caHanz -a leaders slIin by cDtpslniG VfflLLA
... w
nnST CHIEF TRIES
TO AVOID A DREAK
VITII RLE Sffil
Report He?Has Not Signed Pro
tocol But Temporizes With
. Modifications
( AnwUtrd Trn by Federal WirtleM)
EL PASO, Texas, Dec. 28. News
hat been recti ved here that two of
Carranza's greatest military leaders,
Gen. Luis Herrera and Col. Manuel
Orozto, havo been killed at the order
of Gin. "Pancho Villa after he had
conqiered Torreon. Villa's secretary,
-Garcia, is said to have been killed also
at the same time.
SAN ANTONIO, Texas, Dec. 28.
Carranza telegraphed today to the
Mexican consul here, Senor Beltran,
that Gen. Murrjula, one of the Car
ranza commanders, has retaken Torreon..
WASHINGTON, D. C Dec. 29.
Whether communications SHI be sev
ered, by the United States with the
Carrarlza government depends largely
upon the answer to the last United
States request, made to Carranza ana
bearing upon conclusions of imme
diate arrangements for border safety.
. Jn this note the United Stats calls on
Carranza either to sign or to repudi
ate the rending protocol. Carranza's
answer was put in the hands of Sec
retary Franklin K. Lane, member of
the Am;rlcan-Mexican joint commis
sion, this afternoon. It is of .eight
. typed oases and will be made public
when Lane communicates with the
American commissioners.
It is understood that it contains sug
gestions or modifications carefully
worded so as to avoid a break with
the United elates.
.' t A" Mexican official statement says
.that "The door to further negotiations
, jjaft- not been closed.. ' ' .
-V m n m -
ji i mil i a iinii iin
MAYitMiIlw
ASaEKU LOANS
Ners published Wednesday of thj
choosing of 12 cities for farm loan
I pnks lends additional interest to tLe
following Washington despatch: ' "
WASHINGTON, D. C. Dec 7.-Offlcials-
of the farm loan board an
nounced Thursday that more than
50,000 farmers have applied for mort
gage loans aggregating approximately
$150,000,000 or more .than 17 times the
amount of money which will be im
mediately available for loans upon the
organisation of the 12 farm loan
banks. Most of the applications have
'come from the South and West;
"Although the location of the banks
probably will not be announced be
? fore December 20, It was said Thurs
day that almost immediately after
'organization the banks wiuld find It
necessary to issue, bonds for practical
ly their entire capital stock to meet
the demands of borrowers.
The rate of interest on londs is a
subject now engaging the board's at
tention. It Is thought that it will not
exceed five per cent and may. be as
low as 4 f-2 per cent'
EUROPEAN BANKING
. INTERESTS TO WORK
WITH FEDERAL RESERVE
- t AuMK-Utfd Trt by Federal WireW)
WASHINGTON, D; C, Dec. 29.
The authorization for the. federal re
rerve bank n New York to" appoint
the Bank of England agent will in all
likelihood be followed similarly by
Japan, China and Australia.
PARIS, France, Dec. 29. The ap
pointment of a Bank of England agrnt
by the federal reserve bank of New
York will likely be followed by the
conclusion of a similar arrangement
with the Bank of France. , '. :
JAPANESE EMPEROR
OPENS PARLIAMENT
WITH SHORT ADDRESS
(Spprial Cable to Xippn Jiji)
TOK'O, Japan, Dec. 28. The 3Sth
sessloa of the Japanese parliament
was formally opened today by Em
Ieror Yoshihito. He made a short ad
dress to the tncmbers of both houses.
' l'rince Tokogawa was elected presi
dent of the house of peers and . S.
Ijimida ' was chosen, as speaker of
the chamber of deputies. It was an
... nounced that R. Mtzuno, a member
of the nouse of peers, had been named
as assistant minister of the depart
. ment of the interior.
JPLANS FOR NEW KALIHI
f $v - PUMP ARESEWG DRAWN
Plans and specifications of the pro
posed extra pump for the Kalihl
pumping plant are being drawn up by
Harry Murray, superintendent of the
water department, and will be ready
to present to the Oahu Loan Fund
Cocmission ' within a .' week. The
immp , to be iBed for emergency in
case an of the present junits break
down. ' '
CHINESE REQUEST
MADE III CAPITAL
HVE MONTHS AGO
1A
Plan to Allow Laborers to Enter
Hawaii Told Before House
Committee
' That t'.e movement of kwal Chinese
socioiiM and I.tsinesMiien to seek,
through action at Washington, the ad
mission of Chinese laborers here was
proscjted actively at the national
capital J'.ve months a no was learned
yestsrd-i.' by the S;ar-Bulletin. .
Last August W. II. Hindle,: who has
just left for Washington with Farm
Cornn, Mas in Washington partly on
private business and appeared on
August 23 at a formal hearing before
a subcommittee of the l ouse commit
tee on territories. He represented
thV Tn ted Chitse Society of Iloro
lulu, bearing credentials signed ly
prominent local Chinese, and showing
that on August 4 he was named to
represent all the Chinese in Hawaii
on the ian favored.
Thv in aring !ieffro the house sub
ccmmtte goe i fully into the . re
quest Uy the rhin le. A lon peti
tion, iig.ied by the United Chinese So
ciety, Yee Yap, president, was filed,
going into the history of the Chinese
here and dwelling on present business
and agricultural conditions. The pe
tition t onclude i in part as follows: i
'The foregoing statements are made
with a .iew to endeaor, if possib'e,
that the government of the United
States of America, rnd the republic
of China, can enter into a special
agreement for the territory of Ha
waii; that Chinese laborers may be
admitte.l to the islands; that the same
privileges be accorded to the-Chinese
race as to other nati. ns of Oriental
ra'ce." ,, ;'
Throtujhout the hearing it was em
phasized that the chief benefit of such
Chinese labor immigration would be
to the rice industry in the islands."
The petition was also presented
to the house comm.'ttee, on terri
tories. .-f X. . "'- !'
In anjer to a question by Congress
man Brumbaugh, Hmdie said: "The
Chinese will be bound. by this agree
ment, if any of thera come to Hawaii
for the purpose of lajocr, never, under
any circamstanres.-ta; enter the United
States of America."- ; j
Hindi's return Washington, ac
compinled by Farm Cornn, is be
lieved to forecast i more active press
ing of the objects set forth in the pe
tition. Local Chinese say that they
have received substantial encourage
ment tiom Congressman Burnett,
chairman of the immigration qom
mtttee, and others ; !
SCH0FIELD BUNGALOWS
NEARING COMPLETION
Rapid work which has been done
upon the 1 1, non-commissioned of fl
eers quarter's at Schofield Barracks
which are how nearing completion,
has be 3.1 the cause of considerable
comment. ; ;
The buildJngs, which are of bunga
low cottace type, stand on the high
ground at Cfstncr and present a pleas
ing appeaivice according to many
comments fd&ie upon them.
Four r.elr quarters lor company
officers anc for others for field of
ficers of th Va Cavalry will be com
pleted in arch.
NEW Y0EK STOCK ;
MARKET TODAY i
Following art the closing prices of
stocks on tha New York market t
day, sent by tht Astbclated Press over
the Federal Wireless (
Yester
Today. day.
Alaska Gold .......... 10 11
American Smelter ...... 103 104 J
American Sugar Rfg. . . 109'2 109
American Tel. & Tel 125'a 125
Anaconda Copper ...... BOVz B2Va
Atchison ....104 l04'4
Baldwin Loco. ..... 57 60 '
Baltimore & Ohio ...... 83H 848
Bethlehem Steel ..t 505
Calif. Petroleum ... ... . 24j 25
Canadian Pacific ....... 165'4 167
C M. & St. P. (St. Paul) 9Vt - 914
Colo. Fuel & Iron ...... 44'4 45'4
Crucible Steel 59H 62!'2
Erie Common .......... 34 34i
General Electric ....... 166167
General Motors .. ...4......
Great Northern Pfd. ... 1174 118
Inter. Harv N. J. ..... 121 119
Kennecott Copper . . . i .." 44'8 454
Lehigh R. R. .......... 794 80
New York Central ..... 104 1044
Pennsylvania ........ .. 56?a j56H
Ray Consol. ........... 25'2 26H
Southern Pacific .. . 96 974
Studebaker 104H 109'4
Texas ... . .. ........... 222J2 221
Union Pacific ......... 147 148
U. S. Steel . ..... . .. 105! 4 10754
U. S. Steel Pfd. ....... 120 11974
Utah ... . . .... ..I... . .. 99?8 101 '2
Western Union 96 1 96?4
Westinghouse . .... .... 5514 56V8
Bid. fEx-drvldond. JUnquotad.
,-. - sugar . ;v';: , ; .
SAN FRANCISCO, Cal., Dec. 28
Sugar: 9C degrees test, 3.14 cents.
Previous quotation, 5.02 cents.
12 PAGE? -HONOLULU, TERRITORY OF HAWAII, THUIDAY,
Late News At A Glance
TEN YEARS FOR DYNAMITER DAVID CAPLAN
LOS ANG ELKS. Cal.; Dec. 2S. David Caplan, alleged to be a member
of the union labor dynamiters who set off explosives in the Los Angeles
Times and the Llewellyn Iron Works plants in 1SH0 and convicted on one
count of the indictments against him. was today sentenced to 1') years in.
the ionitentlary
BROTHERHOODS AND RAILWAY HEADS RESUME - CONFERENCES
NEW YORK. N. Y., Dec. 28. Members of the railway brotherhoods
and representatives of the railways today resumed their conferences on the
demands of the brotherhoods on hours. No developments have been made
public v It is understood that the railroads suggested that if the Adamson
law is upheld by the supreme court, the rcntroveisy will be settled on the
Imsis of the award to the switchman's ;.un!on, .which was given an increase
on a compromise basis. .
ALLEGED BOM B-PLOTTE
SAN FKANCISjCO, Cal., Dec. 28.
bombing conspiracy was the testimo
fidential agent of the German consul
of German Consul-General Franz Bo
the testimony of Louis J. Smith, st
ley was directly involved in the cons
late American neutrality by destroying
Smith claimed that Crowley was the m
mite jobs.
FLOOD OF GOLD POURS INTO U. S.
NEW YORK, N. Y., Dec. 2S. With a deposit of $33,fH).lfO(irt in gold by
the Morgan lianking Company with the New York and Philadelplila. assay
offices, the largest day's Importation of gold ever recorded came today.
Of this J33.OO0.O00, $2.'.,000 was in the form of American eagles the Wedtical
gold shipped to Paris in April, 1904, . as part payment of the $40,000,000 paid
by the United States to the old French Panama Canal Company in se
curing Uncle Sam's rights to the canal. The gold reached here in the
same boxes as it went to Paris in The total 191C gold imjorts low
amount to 5678,000,000. i - -
RAINFALL PASSES NORMAL FOR MONTH
At 2:30 this afternoon 1.22 inches ot rain had fallen since yesterday
noon, maKing a total of 5.43 to date for the month. ? From C o'clock this
morning, when the present rain began, M inches have fallen. The nor
mal for the month is 3.39. -. .
YOUNG CHINESE SEEKS TO BECOME LAWYER
I loon Wo Wong, a local Chinese young man, filed in the supreme
court this afternoon his application for. a license to practise law in the
courts of the territory. Wong is another McKinley high school alumnus
who has made good. After finishing at McKinley he entered the law de
partment. of Northwestern university and was graduated recently. Prior to
returning to Hawaii he was admitted to "the bar of Illinois.
SUITS BROUGHT AGAINST TH TEE CONCERNS
Dep.ity Attorney-GeneraLW. H. Heen filed in circuit court this after
noon actions against the Koolau Rubber Company, the People's Store of
Wailuku t-nd the Maui Vulcanizing
failed to present to the treasurer
state of affairs of their business
Circuit Judge Ashford has signed penal
appear m ms court on January t, . . . v- . :
HARBOR BOARD CONSIDERS THIRD ENGINEER
i larbor commissioners who closeted themselves at 2:25 o'clock this af
ternoon to discuss a third englnetr to serve with George W. Armitago
and O. H.'Cere on the board which will insect Piers 8, 9 and 10, ha not
reached a decision at 3 o'cIock. The board announced itself as a commit
tee of the wholetand no minutes were taken, the object of the session being
to consider qualifications of various engineers to serve on the board. Both
of the engineers chosen are at the meeting.
FIRST SUGAR FREIGHTER LEAVES NORFOLK
First of the American-Hawaiian's sugar freighters to start Trora the
Atlantic coast for the islands via Panama, the Minnesotan, Jeft Norfolk,
I Tirginia. today according to advices received this afternoon by the . Mer
chants' Exchange. C P. Morse, general agent in Honolulu for the line,
said he believes the Minnesotan has been substituted for the Floridan,
which was designated with the Texan and Mexican to carry island sugar
to San Francisco for transshipment to New York. The Minnesotan is com
ing here direct via the canal, and should arrive about January 22 with a
full cargo of. coal, 9000 tons, for the Pearl Harbor naval station. ;
BELIEFS SURVEY
IS UNNECESSARY
A federal survey of the schools in
Hawaii is net necessary, asserts Can't.
L. G. Blackman. principal of the Ho
nolulu Military Academy antl mem
ber of cne board of school commis
sioners. There is little doubt that a fed
eral survey 'would be a very good
thing, bays Capt Blackman, "but I
do not think Hawaii needs it If there
was one, however, the. investigators
would be surprised at and pleased with
educational conditions as they exist
in Hawaii today They would find
that the standard in Hawaii is higher
than ne might expect, taking into
consideration the -condition's teachers
are laboring under and the tremendous
alien Mopulation.
"Personally, I do not think the
survey is needed;1 but if it is desired
it undoubtedly would De worth while.
We have notainf to hide in our
schools and the greater the publicity
regarding their work the better it
will be Jorn concerned.'
"The federal government does not
know tfhat we are doing in Hawaii in
the way of education, and for this rea
son I would welcome a survey."
; Capt. lilackman thinks the expenses
of a feJeral survey should be met by
the legislature.
CARVALHO MEETS DEATH
NEAR AIEATHIS MORNING
Arthur Carvalho, a brakeman in the
employ of the Honolulu Plantation
Companv, was killed this morning
near Aiea. He was 29 years Old and
Is survived by his wife and , three
children. He was a member of the
Lusitana society and the funeral will
be under its auspices at Aiea, In
formation obtained by the Star-Bulletin
was that a -telephone pole fell
upon him.
A gift of $500 has been received by
the Koran Jajuku, : a Japanese girls
boarding school . at Wailuku, Maui,
from B.-F. Dillingham, according to
advices received in Honolulu from
the Valley Island. The school ac
commodates 50 girls, some of whom
are homeless orphans.
R DENIES CONSPIRACY '
That he had no knowledge of a
ny today of Charles C. Crowley, con
ate, called by the defense In the trial
pp and his associates. According to
ar witness for the prosecution, Crow-
piracy with consular Officials to vio
ships carrying munitions to the Allies.
an who actively enfineered the dypa-
Company, the complaint being that they
of the territory annual exhibits of the
due CO davs after December 3 lf 1915.
summons citing the defendants p
RESOLUTIONS OF
: It was "Resolution Day' Vat the
Rotary Club, - President Towse call
ing on the members for their New
Year's resolutions and reading one
himself. Through many of the resolu
tions ran the sentiment that Honolu
lu should work for good roads. Other
sentiments concerned furnishing more
amusement for visitors; taking a
more active part as individuals, In
civic affairs; cooperating with imbHc
officials; endowing a bed j. at th
Children's hospital; realizing fully
that Honolulu' is a rapidly-growing
city and responding to its needs.
II. E. V'ernoft,' quoting the figures or
the presidential election, declared that
Wilson has been reelected-' by the
voice of the people, that the governor
of Hawaii is - the appointee of the
president, and both this fact" and the
dignity of the office should be suffi
cient to prevent unfair, nagging and
petty criticism of the governor. The
resolution in which . he set this forth
was greeted with general applause. A
feature of the day was the presenta
tion to each club member of a photo
graphic group of the Rotary Club of
ficers, within the Rotary wheel, the
New Year cards of Rotarian Roscoe
W. Perkins. V '
RESCUING PARTY FAILS
IN SEARCH FOR 200
PASSENGERS ON LINER
TOKIO, Japan, Dec. 28 Members
of the rescuing party which started
from the coast of Japan to search for
the passengers of the Hankaku Maru,
the coastwise steamer which went to
the bottom off Chefoo in the Yellow
sea, have given up hopes of finding
any of the passengers, and it is
thought that the boat went down with
all on board. There were more than
200 passengers on the liner. :
BOOZE WAS THE CAUSE
OF NIOLOPUA'S DEATH
Nunu Niolopua came to his death
Tuesday through his own carelessness
and Intoxication when he fell from an
auto truck and was run overaccording
to a Verdict of the coroner's jury today.
R0MR1SREAD
I)KCEMBEir 28, 11)10.-12 PAGES
CROOKED DEAL IN
OPIUM IS PROBED
BY If. S. OFFICERS
' . . '
Japanese Said to Have Bilked
Fellow Countryman Out
of $1000
Details, of a "badger game, where
in 50 tins supposed to have contained
opium were used as bait" to secure
$1000 from a local Japanese, and hav
ing all the earmarks of the now fa
mous Scully-BoweJ-McGrath-Boggs
swindle,' have leaked out through (ue
local Japanese press. The alleged
deal is being investfgaled by V. S.
Marshal Jerome 3. Smiddy and the
U. S. attorney's office.
If sufficient evidence is gathered
the matter will be presented to the
federal grand jury, says District At
torney S. C. Huber. Already Huber
has mter viewed a numler of persons
professing to know something about
the deal, but he says that the atrair
has a number, of angles and that It
may take some little time to bring
the matter to a head.
According to stories told by those
interviewed by the U. S. attorney,
three local Japanese arranged to sell
50 tins of, opium to another Japanese,
the consideration being the payment
of $1000 upon the delivery of the tins
and the payment of another $,1000
after the recipient of the opium had
disposed of.it. v
Arrangements u-ere made, the story
goes, whereby . the three Japanese
met the fourth at a House in Kewalo
one night about three weeks ago. The
r0 tins were placed on the table and
the buyer handed over $1000. At
that point another Japanese, believed
to be -a confederate- of the sellers,
rushed Tin shouting, "Here are the po
lice, we are caught," whereupon there
was a general scramble of the Japan
ese to get out of the room. . But there
were no police. . .
When the Japanese who was to buy
the opium returned to the house botn
the opium and the money had disap
peared. -Marshal Sralddy has . In his
possession a tin partially filled with
opium whicbs is alleged to be one of
the 50 tins.'. ;lt was turned over to
the district attorney's office by one
of the Japanese interviewed in con
nectlon with the deal. . -
IS FOUND TO BE
lEATH
Examination By Hospital Man
Shows Prisoner Booked as
v Drunk is Really Corpse
The arrest of John P. Kekaula this
morning on a charge of first degree
murder brought out the story of a
remarkable arrest made by the police
Christmas night that of a dead wom
an who was taken to the police sta
tion, formally charged with drunken
ness and placed in a cell after life
had left her body. '
The woman was Twrs. Kekaula and
the husband is now accused of being
responsible for her death although
the police generally scout the idea.
Mrs. Kekaula was found about 10
o'clock Monday night on King street
near ?ua lane, lying under , the
eaves of a tenement, house. The
Dollce were notified and thinking she
was drtuik they brought her in, book-.
ed her Tor intoxication and carried her
below. '-,
Frank Stevenson, emergency hospit
al assistant, saw the police carry the
woman down stairs and thought her
appearance strange for a drunken per
son. He asked Capt. Kamahu, on duty
at the time, to be allowed to see her.
and a few minutes later he reported to
the captain that the woman had been
dead some time.
Mrs. Kekaula was the captain's sister-in-law
and the victim's sister was
standing at the desk at the time. She
fainted vhen the word was said.
The sister of the dead woman how
charges that the husband beat the
wife severely at times and that such
assaults were the cause of the. death.
Dr. R. G. Ayer. police surgeon, says,
however, that the woman died of fat
ty degeneration of the heart.
The iwlice rerort that the victim
had ben drinking very heavily Christ
mas day and night.
Sheriff Rose ha3 ordered a thor
ough investigation.
In conflict with these statements
is the information furnished by City
Attorney Arthur M. Brown to Circuit
Judge Ashford, who has issued a war
rant for the arrest ot John Kekaula.
Hawaiian, the charge being first de
gree murder.
Kekaula is charged with having
beaten and kicked Lizzie Maluna, a
sister of Mrs. Daniel Kamahu, on De
cember 23. The woman was removed
to the emergency hospital in a criti
cal condition and died shortly after
as a result of her injuries.
Accompanying City Attorney Brown's
information are affidavits of Kamiola,
Lizzie Kamiola and Mrs. Kamahu. all
Hawaiians, in which they allege hav-
WOMAN ARRESTED
COLD IN D
TEUTOtJS APPARENTLY
TO PRESS PEACE PLAN, THOUGH
ALLIES DEMAND TIIEIIl TEO
Paris Papers Declare Berlin's Reply to Yikon
Note is Evasion and "Hypocritical ExpzdU
ent"DefeaUif Rasso
as Complete
WASHINGTON, D. C, Dec; 28. Austria's reply to Pre$idnt Wilson's
suggestion for an outline of terms of peace was received at the state de
partment this afternoon. .
"
WAS 1 1 1 X ( H IX, I . '.. I h'v. LS. Tlui t ( icrnm n v has an i n t en
tmn of making Pirsidfiit Wilson tti nuilinm for 'lenlativo disrusHioii
of 'narv negotiations is nnlerstoMl in well-infonuetl circles here to
lo t lit vast'. It U'came known toila v, ' ami ..widely cominentetl niMin.
that liermany will nt jM'tniit Ihe road to jtvare negotiations to U'
Mocked by a'lvfnsal of tht' Mntenti' Allies to niter into a. conferemtv
without a irior knowle'tlge of her terms.
j In the drplomatic nianenvering which has arisen, (Jerniany is
planning to so handle her i.'Mints as to secure a road to the negotia
tions ver tin i-efnsal f the 1'ntentc l'owers.to move until the Teu
tons have given some concrete evidence of what Ihey are prepareti 1
do toward hringihg an'eud to the war and adjusting international
relations.
Rumanian Defeat
VirtualiiComplete
(Asfioristrd Prei by Fdrl WirrflMn)
BERLIN, Germany, Dec." 28. The
defeat of the Russo-Rumanlans is re
garded as completed. The Teutons
early today captured 3003 more of the
defending forces, who are now cooped
In a smart portion of the northwest
ern part of Rumania, turrounded on
three tides by Teuton armies.
j BERLIN, Germany, Dec. 28. Offl
darreport early today says that both
east and west fronts- are compara
tively quiet. In the big Wallachlan
campaign by the Teutons against the
Rumanians' there Is nothing new.
! Rimincul Sarat has been captured.
Northeast of Do'ran lake,-on the Ma
cedonian front, another Knglish at
tack was made, but was repulsed.
MAYOR CONSIDERS
tlEl' APPOINTEES
.With the resignation of Lorrin An
drews and S. P. Correa as memoers
of the Civil Service Commission be
cause of their election to the legisla
ture, Interest has been aroused as to
who their successors will be.
Mayor John lane said this morning
that he had net come to a definite de
cision but it is understood that his
selection will' be W. J. Sheldon and
Edward Fogarty. Noa W. A lull will
be reappointed.
The appointment of the new cim
missicners will te made the first of
January by the mayor to be approved
by the board of supervisors, and theTe
is thought to be little doubt that
both Sheldon and Fogarty will be the
new nUmbers. ,
Another change that will take place
in the city hall the first of the year is
the resignailon of Fldwara Woodward,
secretary to Mayor Lane. Woodward
would not say this morning why he
was resigning except that it was with
the approval of the mayor. It has
been learned, however, that he has
been asked to be clerk of the next leg
islature and is giving up his present
position to accept the offer.
ALLEGED CHINESE
GAMBLERS LET GO
: BY JUDGE ASHFORD
"Lee Chin and 35 other Chinese,
charged with being present at a
gambling game, . were declared not
guilty by Circuit Judge Ashford to
day. The defendants were arrested
in a raid by police and detectives aft
er the officers had smashed down a
locked door to get into the room
where it wag alleged gambling was
going on.-
The prosecution's evidence consist
ed of the battered door, a box full of
Chinese checkers, a button, a-lantern
and a stool. Attorney Lorrin Andrews,
representing the defendants, contend
ed that the Chinese game of checkers
is a contest of skill and one that only
two persons may play.; The court
held that the prosecution had not
proved that a gambling game was be
ing conducted. ,
ing witnessed the beating and kicking
of the woman, tvamiola affirms that
when he visited the emergency hos
pital Lizzie Maluna -was pronounced
dead. Mrs. Kamahu affirms that
when she viewed the body it wa3
covered with bruises. .
The warrant of arrest is returnable
at 9 o'clock tomorrow morning. : Ac
cording to City Attorney Brown, the
case will be presented to the terri
torial grand jury on Friday, January 5.
PRICE FIVE CENTS
- Rnmanians Regarded
f
. It had leen forecast that the
Lntente group would lase a re
fusal on the fact that the tlerman
projosals are too vague to receive
consideration.
M The Teutons, it is now under
sttMxl; ai-e willing to jierniit a con
fident ial exchange of broad, tenta
tive terms through President Wil
son if necessary to hridge the gap
which now threatens to prevent
the assemblage of penec delegates. .
Intimations have reached thft gov, .
eminent that a statement of thjs
position will soon le cominunicat
eil to the United State's.
Paris Pre;
Germany's Answer
(AMOriated Pre T F4erl Wirtlf) ' 'f .
l'AUIS, France, Dee, S,
Morning pajKirs of Paris are.
unanimous in pronouncing Oer
manv's answer to the United
Sates a jolite refusal to comply
with .President Wilson's Hitgges
tions. The Matin says: - "(Jerinany in
tentionally reverses the terlns of
Wilson's note. The enemy is at
tempting to hootlwink us." '
The Petit Parisien declares : .
''The reply is not direct nor is it
a loyal answer to the American -suggest
ions. It is only a hyK- (
critical exjedient. It ignoi-es Wil
son's suggestions that (Jerniany ;
state the t onditions on which he
will accept peace."
u nTv:Tnv n f' tw
ine omciai text arrivea loaay
of (Jermany's reply" to President"
Wilson's note suggesting a state
ment of peace terms. Assertions
are made in oflicial quarters that
no contiilential commnnirations
from Ur S. Ambassador (lerard
accompanied the German note.
German Papers of
A Laudatory r.iind
(AsuocUtrd Prea br r4rl Wire1i)
liKULIX, Germany, Dee. 2S.--Gerni
any 's answer to the Unitetl ;
States, insisting that the Teutons
are ready to discuss peace, has
caused a good impression on the
press generally, according to news
pajer comment. ' J
Only the anti-American newspa
pers show a disposition to dissent,
particularly on the point that Ger
many will cooperate after the war
in an international movement to
abrogate armed strife. These pa- -yers
are, of the opinion that any
interference by America is intoler
able. -
A 'reply has been handed to the
Swiss minister along the same
lines as the reply to President
Wil.wm Switzerland having given
Germany a note similar tf that o?
the United States.; ' 3
TWAIN'S COUSIN DIES4
TUCSO. Ariz Dec,
Clements, cousin of Mark
here today. V
