I . _ ' . ; ; : , 1
WEATHER F^^K0W a | im f
Partly cloudy and colder tonight; w ^ V ^9rI1 FtOJV% PtGSS to //offll*
temperature somewhat below freezing. I - ^ I^^HB^M^Bj^Bv ij 1 j!( H .
S?r;modera,ew(!t /^ 1 r% 9 IT BT IT^lrl^Wlr MM? Within the Hoar"
Temperature for twenty-four hours | I I ^^9 9 H H H 9 H 9 9 H 9 9 9 . 9 JbaKtmii^
ending p.m.: Highest. a.m. to- Wf il H w B H V H 9 9 9 9 H 9 Qr /^^B' 9 |i 9 9
9^^PI , , }
1 - ...... . ? ?' i I | y , J ^ Sworn Net Circulation. Month of November.
CLOSING MEW YORK STOCKS PAGE 17. \ / ^ V > " \JT .M M, 1wW 7MB, ,?U7. Wtt
No. 29,546. WASHINGTON, D. C., THURSDAY, DECEMBER- 28, 1916?TWENTY PAGES. * ONE CENT.
CARRANZA'S REPLY I
TO BE GIVEN TODAY
To Be Handed Secretary Lane I
r by Chairman of Mexican
iy Commission.
MAY REOPEN NEGOTIATIONS (
Gen. Carranza's answer to the request I
that he either sign or repudiate the
pending protocol, which will be deliv- t
ered late today to Secretary Lane by r
Luis Cabrera, chairman of the Mexi
can commissioners, is understood to t
contain suggestions of modifications s
which have been carefully worded to j t
avoid eliding the negotiations. I
"The door has not been closed." was ! s
'the comment of one Mexican official, t
who had read the reply. Further than
that no intimation was obtainable as to 1
what its terms were. r
Mexican Representative Arrives. j
While Carranza was informed flatly 1
k that the United States expected a final
reply last Tuesday, it seemed possible that
the American commissioners would j A
not force an end of the negotiations if
a reply, even late, was not of such a 1
character as to preclude further consid- *
eration. ^
Luis Cabrera,' chairman of the Mexi- *
can commission, arrived here from New r
York this morning, bearing the answer t
of Carranza. lie made telegraphic ar- e
rangeroents last night with Secretary
Lane to submit the answer today. j j
It has been understood here for sev- i a
cral days that if Gen. Carranza did not
return such an answer as would war- \
rant a reassembling of the joint com- ^
mission the negotiations would he de- r
dared ended and that Gen. Carranza's r
ambassador Kliseo Arredondo, would re- t
turn to Mexico, leaving the embassy
here in charge of a confidential agent. t
Would Delay H. P. Fletcher. v
This would not amount to a severance
of diDlomatic relations, because in a
strict sense there never have been any.
Such a turn, of course, would prevent
sending Henry P. Fletcher. American Z
ambassador designate, to Mexico City, ^
and, in short, the situation would return c
to the point it occupied before the commission
negotiations began. h
Mr. Arredondo today unqualifiedly de- b
nied published reports that he had been r,
recalled. t,
"It is absolutely untrue that I have
been recalled by my government," said e
he. "nor do I know if the government is
f ontemplating summoning me. If it e
should occur, as it did a few weeks ago, j t]
it would not be in the nature of my. J &
| withdrawal from my post."
- WILL ATTACK JUAREZ I
AND CHIHUAHUA CITY?
i
Villa's Forces Planning Simultane- n
ous Movement, It Is Beported ^
in El Paso. 1
S
II
EL PASO. Tex., December 28.?Fran- a
Cisco Villa's forces are preparing to c
attack Chihuahiia City and Juarez r
simultaneously in an effort to estab- s
lish railroad traffic between the bor- r
der and Torreon. it is said by a man
known to be close to Villa.
A Mexican refugee who arrived here
from Torreon said Villa was preparing
to move north with 5.000 men to
attack Chihuahua City. He reported
another force of 500 Villa followers to
have been yesterday at the Calderon
ranch, sixty-five miles southeast of
Juarez.
Skirmishing between the rebels at
Calderon and the de facto troops which
left Juarez Tuesday for Chihuahua
City was reported here late yesterday,
but could not be confirmed in
Juarez. The Villa forces southeast
* of Juarez are commanded by Col.
Manuel Ochoa and Col. Mariano Tamez, r
according to a deserter who has ar- *
ii\ed at the border from the Calderon
ranch. The Villa followers were said 1
to have been sent north to take r
Juarez as soon as Villa started his at- a
tack on Chihuahua City.
It Is not believed here that Villa has *
any direct tactical connection with the *
operations reported from the eastern 1
military zone near San Luis Potosi, '
Tampico and Monterey, but Gen. far- r
rera Torres and the Cedilla brothers 8
are said to be operating in that sec- 1
tion under the Villa banner.
The occupation of San Luis Potosi *
by the Villa forces Monday was re- *
affirmed by men known to be close to 1
Villa, but was denied by Carranza Con- 1
sul Soriano Bravo, who said a message
bad been received at Laredo. Tex., from .
San Luis Potosi. I
THOUGHT VILLA NEAR. "
Rumor of Attack on Juarez Follows
Explosions Near El Paso.
KL PASO. Tex , December 2H ?Three j
explosions that sounded like cannon shots j
and seemed to come from the Mexican 1
L side filled El Paso last night with ru- ^
p mors of a Villa attack on Juarez, until it
I was learned that they were caused by
molten slap escaping and flowing over
wet ground at the smelter near here.
A local American paper added to the j
excitement by issuing an extra at the i
same hour proclaiming that a rebel army !
of two thousand men was marching on j
Juarez
SEARCH FOR STEAMER
MARYLAND ABANDONED
NANTUCKET, Mass, December 28.? j
The steamship Maryland was regarded!
as probably lost today. Search for her |
vessel and crew by the coast guard 1
cutters Acushnet and Gresham, which ;
was begun after the Maryland's wire- !
less calls of distress were suddenly si- 1
I lenced Christmas night, was abandoned >
| without having developed any trace of
either. Flotsam found by the cutters .
could not be identified as being from j
fr' the Maryland. Hope for the safety of
the steamer's thirty-odd men lies in the
wr possibility that they were picked up
t fron the ship's boat by a passing ;
steamer. j
The cutters had circled for more than!
thirty hours in the vicinity of the posi- j
k tion given by the Maryland's w ireless i
operator. I
i
MENECOKS I
TO A SUDDEN END
3rotherhood Heads and Railway
Managers Adjourn
After Two Hours.
:ause of break unknown
\y the Associated Press.
NEW YORK, December 2S.?Resump;ion
of conferences here today between
epresentatives of the railroads and the
employes' brotherhoods was quickly
erminated. The reason was under:tood
to be that the conference commitee
of railroad managers sought to ap)ly
the recent switchmen's arbitration
iward to the present controversy over
he A dam son act.
The conferees had been in session
ess than two hours when an adjournment
was taken, and no announcement
vas made by either side as to whether
uture meetings would be held. The
>rotherhood conferees were obviously
listurbed when the session ended.
Neither side would be quoted as to
vhat had takers place.
It was learned, however, that the
oads suggested that the dispute beween
them over the application of the
Vdamson act, if upheld by the Supreme
?ourt. be settled on the basis of the
switchmen's award, which, the railroad
nanagers held, gave the switchmen on
he roads involved nine hours' pay for
'ight hours of work.
Representatives of the brotherhoods,
t was asserted, declined point blank to
Lccept a settlement on such a basis.
They are declared to have pointed
nsistently to the Adamson act and to
lave demanded that an agreement be
eached under the act. Such a settlement,
they held, would grant them
en hours' pay for eight hours of work.
Tho r-j ,,,o no .r^r-c: ,.-,11 onnti??Q
heir individual conferences here, it was
tated. The plans of the brotherhoods
fere not announced.
For Federal Commission.
A federal commission to decide disputes
etween railroads and their employes, reardless
of whether the United States
upreme Court may hold the Adamson act
onstitutional, was the suggestion which
he chiefs of the four railway brotheroods
indicated today they might place
efore the conference committee of raiload
managers. Representatives of the
wo sides went into conference here to
iscuss the Adamson legislation and its
ffects.
William G. Lee. president of the Brothrhood
of Railway Trainmen, discussing
he idea before the conference began,
aid:
"I believe, and a number of the railroad
xanagers agree, that the creation of a
ideral commission of eight members,
>ur representing the roads and four the
rotherhoods, sitting as a court of offlial
adjudication, could satisfactorily disose
of whatever grievances might def.!nn
tVio pnaHc anH tVicir am.
loyes.
' Oppose Outside Connection.
"The members of such a commission
lust be men who understand their busiess.
but before becoming: members they
rould be compelled to sever all conneclons
they previously had with either
ide. Such a commission should have
denary powers, would hold hearings and
fter deliberation would announce its deisions."
According to the brotherhood chiefs the
oads* representatives have already eobidered
the idea of such a federal comnission.
Mr. Lee would not say definitely
hat discussion today would center on the
iroposal.
The conference committee of raiload
managers and representatives of
he four brotherhoods of raiload em loyes
resumed here Today their conerence
relative to the application of
he Adamson law in the event that
t is held constitutional by the United
!tates Supreme Court. Through an
igreement between Attorney Ceneral
iregory and the raiload attorneys the j
ffectiveness of the Adamson law has j
?een suspended pending the outcome of
he test suit. Therefore on January 1
he employes will continue their work
vithout any immediate benefits from
he law. which was to have gone into
>peration 011 that day.
Will Not Withdraw Suit.
The railroads, it is understood, will
tot withdraw the suit or permit anyhing
to halt the decision of the court, j
t was stated, also, that tire railroad
nanagers would decline to enter into
in alliance with the unions in return
or their support in the effort to deVat
President Wilson's proposed polcy
of compulsory investigation of la>or
disputes. The railroads aiso will
leeline, it was stated, to co-operate in
my plan to have the Adamson law re
>eaiea.
A possible outcome of today's conference
was the appointment of a joint
>oard to determine the operation of
he- law if its constitutionality is esabliahed.
DESTRUCTION OF OELTO
DECLARED LEGITIMATE:
5y tl.e Pre**.
BERLIN. December 27. via London,
December 2K.?The reply of the (Jer- (
man government to another of the|
\merican inquiries in regard to steam- j
ships sunk bv submarines, in this in- I
<i;incp relatinir to the destruction of l
the Norwegian steamship Delto, with
Americans ire the crew, declares that i
he steamship was chartered for transport
purposes to a belligerent govern- !
nent and hence its destruction was j
egitimate. This reply, which "has been !
delivered to the American embassy,!
says that so far as was possible the :
safety of the crew was provided for. J
rhe men were given half an hour in j
xhicli to enter the boats. The weather!
was clear p.nd the distance to the shore '
was not excessive.
Marina Settlement Delayed.
The settlement of the Marina case,
which hinges on the question whether
[he steamship was a government
transport, is being delayed pending receipt
of further advices from Washngton.
The American government has
transmitted for information two statements
from the British government
claiming that the vessel was engaged
to carry horses as part of its cargo on
p?astbound voyages, but was under no
engagement for westbound trips and
therefore could not be regarded as a
transport. Germany is waiting to (earn
what interpretation the American government
gives these statements. There
has been no 1 urthee dvelopments in
the case of the ArabMb
SEES "NO QUORUM"
IF PROBE COMES IIP
T. W. Lawson Hints Senators
and Representatives Will
Evade Investigation Action.
PREDICTS'LEAK' THIS WEEK
The belief that any "real investigation."
based on the recent resolution
of Representative Wood of Indiana
asking for a probe as to wnai nign
government officials, if any, profited
financially through the President's
note to the belligerent powers, would
result in there being 110 quorum in
either the Senate or the House next
Monday was expressed in a long and
sensational telegram received this
morning by Mr. Wood from Thomas W.
Paw son of Boston. The telegram also
prophesies a shifting of bank accounts
similar to those of the sugar
investigation days in case such an investigation
is really expected, and confidently
alludes to "this week's leak"
as worthy of more attention than last
week's.
Mr. Lawson's Letter.
Mr. Lawson's wire is as follows:
"New York, December 27, 1916.
"Congressman Wood of Indiana,
Washington, D. C.:
"Just read today's New York papers.
You and Chairman Henry unable to locate
me. Really! Framed over my desk
is an envelope inscribed 'To Thomas
W. Lawson'?no other address. To
settle a wager it was mailed in an interior
town in China and landed in my
Boston office in record short time.
"If you and Chairman Henry wish to
communicate with me toss a post card
from any window in the Capitol, addressed
to 'Thomas W. I^awson' or *T
W. L., Boston," and you will receive answer
by return mail.
"Take a tip from one who played the
big Washington Wall street game and j
the big international publicity pame
long before you were old enough to distinguish
between a stock exchange and
a congressional hall?spend less effort
on last week's and more on this week's
leak, which is liable to inundate both
Wall street, and Washington.
"There were only sixty-odd millions
hogsheaded from last week's; this
week's may run into billions.
"And this tip, too, is meant in the
best of spirit?if it was actually believed
in Washington there was to be a
real investigation of last wek's lf-ak
there would not be a quorum in either
the Senate or House next Monday and
a shifting of bank accounts similar to
those in the good old sugar investigation
days.
"Whether or not I received postcard
from you or Chairman Henry, rest easy
in the knowledge I will answer your
public talking as reported by the press,
and that when you digest my answer
you will know more about Washington
Wall street stock gambling leaks than
before you begir> trying to locate.
"THOMAS W. LAWSOX
"of Boston.
"P. S.?I am mailing you and Chairman
Henry four of my books?'Frenzied
Finance.' 'High Cost of Living,'
'The Remedy' and 'Path Pointer.' A
casual run through them may help you
in your leak tracing."
Representative Wood's Comment.
In commenting on the telegram Mr.
Wood today said that at no time has
he stated that he could not locate Mr.
Lawson or get in touch -with him.
Upon the other hand, that he has taken
it for granted that when the proper
time comes there will be no trouble
about reaching Mr. Lawson and getting
a full statement from him with refer
ClltC IU w iirtL l?^ nil"" ' I,vnvciniiifi ?.n<i
leak connected with the President's
peace note.
Mr. Wood further stated that the reflection
cast by this telegram upon
every member of the House and Senate
was sufficient to warrant the full
est investigation of all the matters involved
in his resolution, and that the
Senate and House, out of self-respect
for each of these bodies, should insist
that such an investigation l?e had.
Mr. Wood further stated that if the
editorials appearing in the cosmopolitan
newspapers in the country are any
reflex of public opinion, the public itself
will insist that the fullest investigation
be had of this matter, not only
for the purpose of ferreting out those
who are responsible for the advance
information received by Wall street,
which caused the loss of millions of
dollars, but for the further purpose of
preventing a recurrence of such a calamity
and such a scandal.
KENTUCKIANS ONCE MORE
IN/FIGHT WITH MEXICANS
KJj PASO. Tex.. December 2ft.?Several
hundred shots were fired across
the Rio Grande into Mexico west of
here early today by members of the
Kentucky National Guard, whose officers
declared that the fusillade was a
reply to shots tired from the Mexican
side. So spirited was the American
lire that residents of the district
thought a machine gun was being used,
but this was denied by the Kentucky
officers. There were no known casualties.
<*apl. 1". W. Clarke, in command of L.
\ ompany, .,u j\eniucKy inraniry. wni?n
did the firing, affirmed that he not only
hoard shots and saw flashes on the;
Mexican side, hot also saw some Mexicans
when rhe headlight of a street car
crossing a bridge lighted the bed of the
river below.
"About four shots were fired at- our
detached post when one of the men
struck a match to light a cigarette."
said Capt. Clarke. "The detachment
had fired about fifteen shots when we
Joined in.
"I made out several men afoot and on
horseback running up the river gorge.
Firing seemed to come from several
other points. We kept up our fire until
we were sure the Mexicans were driven
well <>ut. Several hundred shots were
fired by us."
After a personal investigation. Gen.
Hell, commanding the border division
here, announced today that the exchange
of rifle shots across the border
last night started from the Mexican j
side, when one of the Kentucky in- !
fantry outposts struck a match. Gen. !
Bell said he would notify the Juarez J
military authorities of the shooting, j
Gen. Jose Murguia, commander at ,
Juarez, also Instituted an investigation, j
Greece Demobilizes Her Army.
LONDON, December 28.?The foreign
office has received Advices that the
Greek government is carrying out its
promise to demobilize the Greek army.
The work is proceeding officially, the
advices indicates.
Braid Tickets for Sweden.
COPENHAGEN, via London, December
28.?A Stockholm dispatch to the
EkstrabUUtot says that bread and flour
tickets will M issued in Sweden from
January lit
, J :. .. .
News Note: Five hundred Ca
Villa Ahumada.
ENTENTEPRESS
AGAINST PEA
Failure of Berlin to S
TN It T7
Kegarded as Ln<
of Negot
By th<? -Associated Press. ]
LONDON", December 28, 11:15 a.m.? <
The Manchester Guardian, taking; the 1
point of view that Germany has reject- j
ed the proposals made in the American <
note, says that President Wilson's suggestion,
instead of being: "the outcome
of a dark German scheme," Is so em
barrassing to Germany that it is evaded j
altogether in the reply, Avhich recurs, ,
instead, to the proposal Germany her-j,
self has made, which the allies already!
had rejected. !
"British denunciation of the note is ! i
j?
clearly superfluous," the Guardian con- j !
tinues. "The task of our foreign offices j;
will he very much lightened if Ger-j
many refuses to carry her definition any j,
further, or even to reply to the general I
statements made on our behalf. It is j
clear we, on our side, can go no further |
tor the time being.
President Clears Conscience.
"President Wilson, by the issue of
his note, has cleared his conscience, and
if Germany now resumes or, rather,
increases submarine 'frightfulness,' so
as to strain her relations with the
United States, the President will, at f
any rate, stand before his people as one i
who did his utmost to avert catastrophe
l?y an effort to re-establish peace."
The Guardian also takes the ground that
the German reply hints that the proposal
to establish a league to insure peace after
the present war will not constitute an
Item in peace negotiations, and adds:
"Vet. how appropriate it would have
been to discuss a league of nations in connection.
for example, with Germany's most
cherished plans for 'freedom of the seas!'
* We are inclined to infer that unless
Germany is prepared to go much further I
this first chapter of peace negotiations is
closed. Germany attempted to figure in
the role of a magnanimous victor, but a
magnanimous victor ought not to appear
on the stage in a palpable state of hunger.
* The allies took the measure of her
proposals without difficulty and the President
brought it to the test of definition."
Czar's Words Applauded.
The official order issued by Emperor
Nicholas stating that the time has not ar- j
rived for peace negotiations takes the j
leading place today in both the news arid
editorial sections of the evening newspapers.
Some of them suggest the other
members of the entente should follow the
lead of Russia and state their terms. The
Standard says:
"We cordially welcome this frank exposition
of war aims from one considerable
member of the alliance. It would do
no harm and it might do much good If
the other allies made it clear once for all
that there can now he no question of res- :
toration of the status quo. There has
been far too much Inclination in this
country to treat the mere evacuation of
occupied territories as a test of sincerity
on Germany's part. *
II 1.1 HOW MUHC llllic m<x?. iicuiftCM-iiia I
and neutrals understood the true situation.
The allies believe they can inflict j
very shortly a crushing military defeat on j
Germany. She then will be offered peace i
on the lines of restitution of Alsace-Dor- !
raine, relinquishment of her spoils, the!;
loss of her colonies and the payment of ;
suitable indemnities while her allies will j
have to meet the minimum demands of j
Russia and Italy." I;
Regarded as a Trap.
The London morning papers generally j,
regard Germany's reply to President j,
Wilson as no reply at all, but a renewed j>
effort to trap the entente into a confer- i,
ence at an inopportune moment for the J,
latter with a view to averting what is']
consistently maintained here as inevit- j,
able?the defeat of the central powers. | j
The^Post, asserting that Germany re- !
gards President Wilson's note as an j j
instrument fashioned to serve her in- !,
terests, says that Germany has seized |
the occasion with the desperate eager- ,
ness of a drowning man catching at a j
straw. Rejecting all idea of a confer- js
ence. the Post says: i
"It is perfectly evident that if a dis- r
cussion were once begun, the war could j;
not possibly be resumed. The long- j:
gathering momentum of the allies, once 1
checked, could not be recovered." ,
Little New in Note. 1
PARIS, December 28.?The newspapers
comment freely on Germany's reply
to President Wilson's note concerning
peace. All of them affirm that .
it contains nothing not contained in the
first corkgiunication of Dr. von Beth
CHRISTMAS IX MEXICO..'
rranzistas are reported to have (
STILL FIRM
CE CONFERENCE
itate Teutonic Terms
iing Possibility
nations.
mann Holleweg's,. the German imperial
chancellor, except that it proposes a
conference in some neutral capital.
"Germany," says the Temps, "invites
her adversaries to a conference without
making to them any disclosure ol
what she proposes to say until their
delegates surround the green cloth."
The Temps then attacks fn detai
what it terms the systematic mendapitj
of Dr. von Bethmann Hollweg respecting
the origin of the war. and: allege*
that he changed the date of the' note
of Count von Berchtold, the Austrian
foreign minister, of which the chan
cellor spoke recently in the reichstag
The newspaper fsserts that while
C'ount von* Bernstorff. says one thing
in the United States, Dr. von Beth(riann
* Hollweg says another in Germany,
and expresses the hope that
Washington will now be able to measure
the sincerity 'of, the German government's
declarations."
Changing Views at Petrograd.
PETROGRAD, December 27, via London.?Switzerland's
indorsement ol
President Wilson's initiative in soliciting
the formulation of peace terms by
the warring powers and the news tha
other neutrals will follow suit hds decidedly
strengthened the impressior
made here by the American proposal
and corrected whatever tendency then
existed in certain quarters to regari
Mr. Wilson's note as inspired by qthei
motives than those set forth.
In well informed quarters it is sait
there is no reason to believe that tin
added influence of other neutrals wil
in any wav change the potnt of vie*
expressed by the foreign office or a'.tei
the national conviction that the pres
ent time is inappropriate * for the con
sideration of peace terms. But the torn
of the press comment has become to
day considerably more inr-lined to view
the possibility of intervention on #its
own merits. The Novoe Vremya,. wh'icl
bitterly reproached President Wilson ir
its earlier comment for what it terms
ill-timed interference, now says^ tha
however President Wilson's efforts ma]
be received, there can be no possible
interpretation of the note as unfriendly
to the entente allies, or having beer
sent, with other than the best of in
tentions.
Explaining Note at Rome.
HOME, December 27, via "Paris, December
28.?United States Ambassadoi
Page .had a. long interview with Baroi
Sonnino, the Italian foreign minister
today in regard to President Wilson'?
note. Ambassador Page e'lucidatec
passages of the note which have beer
the subject of controversy in the Italian
press, and emphasised the friend.lj
spirit which moved the I'resident tc
address the belligerent powers.
Tnnlnne Mnf Hntimiclin
ICUIUIIO- IKUl Mil IIOlll/
That Foes Can Be. Induced
to Enter Peace Conference
By the Aswiatrd I'n-ss.
BKRL.IN, December 27, via London
December 28.?Germany's answer* t<
President Wilson and the promptness
with which it was made have eausec
a pood impression generally in thf
press. Only, the ajiti-American newspapers
show a tendency to dissent afu:
express the view that interference ol
any kind by America is intolerable
The latter papers find a certain satisfaction
in the proposal that delegate?
the belligerents meet on neptral territory,
which is interpreted as cl^arb
excluding the participation of neutral?
in the conference.
Count von Reventlow, while avoiding.
a direct attack on the German an
svver, assumes that no (ierman delegate
will be found willing to take a seat at
the same table with English anc
French delegates after the recenl
speeches of Premiers Lloyd George-anti
Briand, or until those speeches are
apologized for. The Taeglische Rundschau
says that the note emphatically
rejects the participation of neutrals
in a peace conference which, it -thinks
would undoubtedly prolong negotiations
beside disturbing the natural determining
forces.
Conclusions Not Optimistic. ^
The papers, however, do not reach optimistic
conclusions based on the exchange
of notes. The Lokal Anfceiger says
that it has not even a remote belief thai
Lhe allies will send. delegates to a peac(
ieserted and joined Villa's army at
I conference if such a step is recommendi
ed by President Wilson,
i The disposition of certain pan-Ger'
| man newspapers to read an unfavor/
! abM interpretation into the Austrian
I and German replies to President Wilson's
note is not shared in official, circles,
where the interpretation generol,
ly voiced. Is that the reply is in prin>
ciple. "a loyal acceptance of" President
Wilson's suggestion. promoting the
prospects of peace now and in the future
and an effort is the same direction
j as the original peace proposal of the
I central, powers."
| As to the prospect that peace will result
directly from the present rregotiations>(ind
interchange of notes there is no
. marked, display of optimism in either official
pr unofficial circles.
Switzerland Is Favored.
The example of the Portsmouth nego[
tiations, which ended the Japanese-Russian
war, is, however, sorpetimes recalled.
I The diplomat quoted -also expressed the
7 personal opfrwton-that the entente would
| I probably reject the German proposal for a
? conference in a neutral country. He said
i [that, if the proposal were accepted Swit.
! zerland. would be the most probable place.
for the. meeting'because of its central poj
sition. telegraphic facilities, adequate hor
tel accommodations and- the belief, he
' said, both sides had in its complete neu.
trali ty.
; REPLY TO SWISS NOTE
! LIKE THAI TO THE U.S.
r . 1
[ j Berlin Claims to. Be in Complete AcII
cord With President
si ' Wilson.
l | '
j j BERI.IX, December 28, via Amstpr*
i dam and London.?Tfyc (Jerrhan reply to
Ij the Swiss note has'been handed to the
1 I Swiss minister. The tenor of the replv
i follows:
"The imperial government has taken
note of the facl: that the Swiss federal
council, as the result of its haying
placed itself in communication with the
j President of the .United States,"is also
I ready to ta*ke action and side with the
.! United States toward bringing about an
; understanding between the belligerent
: nations and toward "the attainment of
i.a lasting* peace.
"Spirit of True Humanity."
"The spirit of true humanity, where,
| by the stdps of "the Swiss federal coun"
j oil aVe inspire^, is fully appreciated and
j esteemed by the imperial government.
1 ) "The imperial government has- yi
| formed the President of the United
5 | States that a direct exchange of views
1 'seems to it. to he the most suitable
1 means of obtaining the desired result.
"Led by the same considerations
which caused Germany on December 12
to offer her hand for peace negotiations,
the government has proposed an
immediate meeting of all the belligerents
at a neutral place.
Prevention of Future Wars.
"Tn agreement with the President of
, ]the United States, the government is
of the opinion that 'the great work of
preventing futifre wars, can only he
. taken in hand after the present work!
) war has terminated, feo soon as that
i"j moment .comes they will joyfully be
I ready to co-operate in this sublime
j|task.
j "If Switzerland, which, fa*ithful to its
I | noble traditions, in mitigating the suff
I ferings caused by Ihe present war, has
;won unending gratitude, wjU also eo.i"
i tributo to safeguarding the .world's
ijment will highly welcome such action."
| POLICE SAFER THAN CITIZENS.
i And It's Safer to Be a Fireman Than
a Minion of the Law.
? NEW YORK. December 2S.?Statistics
: prepared by medical o/ficers qf the Netfr
I York poJice and fire departments and
: submitted to Mayor Mitchel by Fire
| Commissioner Adam son indicate that
despite the risks, of their service it is
* safer to be a fireman than'a policeman
' and Safer to be either than a plain citi-'
zen. Percentages of deafh and illness
[ are lower in both services* than in- the
general average of the public.
Blow Bank Safe, Getting $800.
DANVILLE. .111/. December 28.?Robbers
blew open the saffe in Morgan's
' Rank, in Perry ville, Ind., early today j
P and escaped with $800 in cash and sevi|.
erai'hundred dollars in bonds. ,1
COMPliTE DEFEAT
FOR RUSSIAN ARMIES
' !
Slavs Summoned to Defense of
Rumania Hurled Back,
Says Berlin.
10,220 MADE PRISONERS
"
By the Associated Press.
BERLIN, December 2S, by wireless to
Sayville.?The defeat of the Russo-Rumanian
forces (in Rumania) by the invading
Teutonic army has been completed,
it is announced officially. Russian
troops. Which attempted- to regain
lost ground, were thrust back an^l
ejected from their new positions with
heavy losses. In yesterday's fighting
the Austro-German forces took 3,000 j
prisoners. The statement reads-:
"Front of Archduke Joseph?On the
T u/lntra In t V? o IT noil mfltTl iaTl S
German riflemen drove off strong Russian
patrols in a hand-grenade engagement.
In the Meste Canesci sector there
was repeatedly lively cannonading. In
the mountains, in* the Oituz and Putna
valleys the fighting activity increased.
Stampeded From New Positions.
"Army group of Field Marshal von
Mackenscn: The 27th of December
brought to the 9th fArpiy Infantry" under
Gen. von. Falkens'ayn a complete I
victory in the battle near Rimnik Sara J
over the Russians.summoned to the defense
of Rumania. The enemy, who was ;
defeated on December 26,. attempted to
regain the ground lost by counter
thrusts of strong masses, but the at- j
tacks failed. Prussian and Bavarian
infantry' divisions pressed behind the
enemy, whose forces flowed back. Our
troops stampeded hipi from his new
positions constructed during the night
and pushed ahead beyond Rimnik Sara.
"At the same time further southeast
German and Austro-Hungarian troops
pierced strongly intrenched Russian
lines. They repulsed here "also violent
"itml-u mn/lo iirwiTv thoir flank
and advanced fighting in a northeasterly
direction. The enemy* again in
this defeat suffered heavy sanguinary
losses.
10,220 Russian Prisoners.
"Yesterday 3,0t00 prisoners and twenty-two
machine guns were brought in
as booty. The number of prisoners
made by the 9th Army in engagements
near Jtimnik Sara forms a total of 10,220
Russians.
"With the Danube army yesterday
there were only local engagements.
"In Dobrudja, Bulgarian and Turkjsh,
troops succeeded in throwing the Russians
from fortified height positions
east of Matchin."' ?
. The Teutonic allies fighting in Rumania
captured the. .important town of
Rimnik Sara, On the railroad northeast
of Buzeu. according to the official
communication issued last evening.
Russians Pressed Back.
PETROGRAD, December 28. British
admiralty per wireless press.?The following
statement on. military operations
was issued today by the war office:
"Rumanian front?Throughout the
day (Wednesday) the enemy made a
number of fierce attacks along almost
the whole of our frqnt. In the region
of the upper stream of the River Rimnik.
north of ilegura, he succeeded in
pressing back slightly our cavalry detachments
and Infantry detachments
of the Rumanians.
"On the Rimnik highroad our detach'
ments. after having repulsed a series
of attacks, were obliged to abandon
first line trenches, which were demolished
by artillery fire.*
"Enemy attacks in the remaining
sectors wore beaten back with great
losses to. him," and in the village of
Valea-Sel'tzei, by out counter attack,
we captured several machine guns.
British Attack Fails.
BERLIN. December 28, by wipeless to
Sa will p.?Unsuccessful attacks by the
British on Bulgarian advance lines in
the Lake Doiran region are announced
in today's army headquarters statement.
The text reads:
"Macedonian front: Northeast of
Lake Doiran, several British companies.
after strong: artillery preparation^
j unsuccessfully attacked Bulgarian outposts."
Braila Now Under Fire
of German Guns From
Across Danube River
BERLIN. December 28, by wireless
to Sayville, N. Y.?Braila. the important
.Rumanian oil and grain depot in
northeastern Wallachia, is under the j
tire of Germano-Bulgarian cannon from I
across the Danube, says the military
critic of the Overseas News Agency, in
his review today
"The remnant of the Rumanian troops
decimated in Wallachia," the military
, critic writes, "retreated in confusion
behind the River Sereth for the purpose
of being reformed there untier
Russian leadership. Simultaneously the
Russians, i-n strongly prepared positions
between Rimnik-Sarrat and the Danutie.
offered Resistance in an effort to
prevent a. further German advance toward
the Sereth. Consequently, new
and violent engagements occurred.
"The allied German and Austro-Hungarian
forces captured o.oOt) prisoners
in tne;r first rush and gained ground
The strongly, fortified village of Filipechti.
situated in the center of the
position, on the railroad to Braila. fell
into their hands, as well as adjoining
positions on both sides of the town.
"The new Russian troops, v\hich are j
in strong force, appeared to show no
greater power of resistance than did.!
j the Rumanians. The German attack j
i nntablv assisted by the surprising
J ly. great success in P'obrudja, where, I
!. after the fall of Tultcha and Isakcha,-I
I only the Matehin bridgehead of Braila j
! intervenes as a. 'means of resistance:
i Braila, however, already is within reach
I of the Germano-Bulgarian guns. ,
"In Macedonia no further attempts to
attack on the part of the entente are
reported, but the Bulgarian infantry
has effected an advance northwest of
| Monastir/'
Militiamen Reject Public Banquet.
PTTTSBI'ROH. Pa.. December 28.?
Declaring that they had been fals'ely
represented' as wanting to come home
and suffering from lack of food while
on the Mexican border, sergeants of
the 18th Pennsylvania Regiment, which
is - to be returned Monday to be mustered
out, have voted -unanimously to
reject the offer of a public banquet and
reception in honor of the. regiment. Th.4
Pittsburgh city council and the commissioners
of Allegheny qqunty. had
appropriated 13,000 for the'toanquet.
GERMANY BELIEVED
WILING 10 STATE'
rasracE
Held Not Averse to Confidential
Exchange of Tentative ^
Proposals.
WOULD BLOCK REFUSAL
OF ENTENTE TO PARLEr
Teutonic Government Beady to Com*,
ply With Any Suggestions From
President to Assure Conference.
. Germany, it was made knowl?o|
here today, will not permit thd
road to peace negotiations to bo
blocked by a refusal of the entente
belligerents to" enter a conference
without'prior knowledge of her
terms. It has been forecast that
the Entente powers would base a
refusal on this condition.
The central powers were represented
today as willing to permit
a confidential exchange of broad
I tentative terms through President
Wilson should it become necessary
to do -so to bridge the gap
which threatens to prevent a
gathering of peace delegates.
There were broad intimations today
that a statement of this position
by Germany either had been
communicated to the United
States government or soon
would, be.
Official Tekt Now Here.
Th#? official text of- Germany's reply
to President Wilson s' note arrived today,
and it was declared that no confidential
communication from Ambassador
Gerard accompanies it. There are
indications, however, that a conflden
tlal statement of Germany's position,
if made, would come through the am
Dassai^ur.. it IWO wren au.>vuuv?? ...
advance, however, that it would not be
made public, and it is likely that its 4
receipt even would not be admitted,
to the United States to make every effort
to bring:-about a peace conference, and to
that e.nd is represented as ready to comply
with any suggestions from President
Wilson. As the case .stands now the German
government considers it has met all
the suggestions in the -President's note,
and a statement to that effect has been
made by Count von Bernstorflf. the German
ambassador.
It was said today that Germany had
no intention of asking the .entente to
make public its terms. and at the same
time would not publicly divulge her
own. on any consideration. The view
expressed in certain circles here is that
the Teutonic terms when laid before
the entente delegates will be such as
to admit of their acceptance.
German Ambassador'Optimistic.
! Count von Bernstorff. the. German
ambassador, who hurried back to the
j capital last night, reiterated again to day
that he felt a conference would rej
suit from the. present situation, and
.that he considered it in a light-of
optimism.
Germany's position is represented as
one of willingness to impart her terms
in' a confidential manner first, If that
is absolutely necessary to a conference.
but otherwise preferring to reserve
them for presentation at a round
table conference where- they could bo
discussed with more freedom.
Official Text of Reply.
The official text, which differs some la
phraseology from the unofficial, follows:
"The imperial government has accepted
and considered in the friendly
spirit which is apparent in the
con^munication of the President
(the) noble initiative of th#? President
looking to the creation of bases
for the . foundation of a lasting: *
peace.
"The President discloses the aim
w;hich lies' next to his heart a?d
leaves the choice of the way opeif.
"A direct exchange of views, ap*
pears to the imperial government as
the most suitable way of arriving at
the desired result. The imperial
j government has the honor, thereI
fore, in the sense of its declaration
of the 12th instant, which offered
' the hand for peace negotiations, to
propose speedy assembly on neutral
j ground, of delegates of the warring
states. . .
MIt is also the view of the imperial
government that the great
work for the prevention of future
wars can first be taken up only
after the ending of the present
conflict of exhaustion. The imperial
government is ready, when this
nnint has been reached, to co-op
ernte with the United States at this
sublime task."
Growing: Belief ' Regarding: Allies.
That the allies will declare that therw
must be a military solution to the war,
both In their note to the President and
in their reply to the.central powers. Is
the growing: belief here both on tha
basis of statements at the allied embassies
and from cabled press comment.
Intimations from both Paris
and Rome that the allie's will not discuss
peace until they actually hold the
territories the.y# considered essential for
their future are taken to indicate tha?
the allies .want to wait for-a substantial
military victory and a reversal of the
present military situation.
STEAMSHIP OZAMA SAFE.
Missing Vessel Anchors Inside
Breakwater at Block Island, B. I.
BLOCfe ISLAND, R. I., December 28.?
The Clyde Line steamship Ozama, for
Which four coast guard cutters had
been searching along the New England
coast,, anchored inside the breakwater
herti today. Her coal supply was lo.w,
but the vessel was apparently undamaged.
according to word brought ashore
by fishermen.
The Ozaina left Portland. Me., December
21 for New York, and had not been ]
hearci from until she appeared here. It i
is believed she was blgwn to. sea in the 4
storms of the past week. ^
