VOLUME XXXV
j BAXTER SPRINGS. CHEROKEE COUNTY, KANSAS. THURSDAY, DDCEfiDER 23, 1916
NUMBEIM3
7!
When 700 feel that nature has been overwork
ed and your system needs' building up and -lecoperating,
: .
YOUR DRU.GGIST
it the man you look to for the desired result.
We have a remedy for most of the ills that .
human flesh is heir to. Try us.
' Our prescription department is kept at the high
est point of efficiency.
JANES C. PAGE.
- OPPOSITE STATE BANK
I Harp on Quality and Service.
. Steam Laundry Probable.
. L. H. Winters, of Pittsburg,
was in Baxter Springs Tuesday
trying to lease a building suitable
for the establishment here of a
steam laundry with a dyeing and
nrmtafnir ffartflrtmpnt ' Ho loft (n
the evening for his home, not
discouraged but disappointed, for
he was unable to find a suitable
uuuuui. uuuu uuamcao men,
anxious to see the industry estab
lished here, promised to use their
best efforts .to induce some one to
build a place for him. Here is
the opportunity to make a safe
but ought to have 50 feet of
ground in width so as to provide
air space and light around the
building. The building need not
be finished to any extent inside,
except the office room.
A business of this find would
afford employment for eight or
ten people and would - keep in
town a lot of money that is now
spent outside. To secure the
building is a business that every
man in Baxter should make his
own. Talk it up. Induce your
friend, who has the money, to
make a contract with Mr. Winters
for a period long enough to pay for
MOTHER (!. 0.r - KE17S L10VE3; '
FOR DAXTER HAS flEV PRESS
Council Grants Franchiiefor Get Ready to Handle Increas
Oklahoma and Northern J ed Business When it Comes
Road to Enter City- ' to Our Little City
' " . - '
.The City Council, at the regu-' The News staff has been busy )
lar meeting Tuesday night, grant ' ever since the paper was printed !
ed to Messrs. T. B. Mason and ; last week in moving the plant, j
F. M. Overleee, of Bartlesville, We have had" all sorts of hind- j
Okla., a franchise to build and 1 ranees and still are in an unsettled !
operate an interorban electric , state, and on that account ""we
railroad in Baxter Springs onNe-jbeg our reader to everlookthe
oaho street, from it insersection ' shortcomings of the paper this
Military street west to the city .week. By next week we hope to
limits; the road to be extended have the plant rearranged and to
from there west and south thru ibeable not simply to do as well
, ... . as we did in our old location, but
Picher, Carum, Commerce, Miami gin tolmprove the
and on to Bartlesville. The stip-. not quxUity and quantity
ulationsof importance in the fran-1 of the news but also in its typo-
chise is that actual construction
work on the road shall be started
within one year and that inside of
eighteen .months there shall be
completed and in operation , at
least that part of the line running
from Baxter to Picher. In other
particulars the franchise is identi
investment., a launury once u.nu tw
established will not move unless t u . , i
- - -iwoum De a 101 Deiwr ior some
forced to do so. Any landlord one t toxe8 on a v
sceaay renter in ms ouiiaing.
Here it would seem is the oppor
tunity for some one to make a
good income for himself and at
the same time help to improve
the city. A laundry need not be
on the main business street. It
can be two or three blocks off,
High Stereos and Jeff (Skillet)
Ridge, both colored boys, were
arrested Saturday by Marshal
Horton for fighting. Both boys
had been in Joolin that day
which accounts for their misunderstanding.
Try Our
TRY IT LIKE THIS: y
FRESH B0ILIN0 WATER-EE SURE IT IS FRESH. SCALD
TEAPOT. PUT ONE TEASPOONFUL OF OUR CELEBRATED TEA INTO
THE POT FOR EVERY TWO CUPS OF TEA. ADD BOILING WATER.
LET STAND FOR THREE MINUTES. POUR IT.
WHEN YOU DRINK IT YOU WILL FIND THE FLAVOR EXQUISITE,
AND THE INVIGORATING FEELING THAT CONES FROM DRINKING
COODTEA.
OUR EXCELLENT TEA AND GOFFEE COSTS A LITTLE MORE PER
POUND BUT MUCH LESS PER CUP.
THE PEARL GROCERY
BIGGER BETTER BAXTER
I WILL BE PLEASED IF YOU WILL LIST YOUR
BUSINESS WITH HE. YOU WILL BE BET
TER PLEASED WHEN YOU SEE HOW QUICKLY
AND SUCCESSFULLY IT HAS BEEN HANDLED.
I THANK YOU IN ADVANCE
0rt Phoa
-
D. MARTIN
graphical appearance. One of the
several improvements to The
News plant made at the time of
moving was the installation of a
new newspaper press, larger,
faster and much superior to the
press on which the paper had
been printed. The 'press just in
a, a . I
rol with the fnmiMm irranted the ! Stalled Is 8JSO Ddllt tO 00 all Kinds
Southwest Missouri Railway re- j of job and book printing. New
centiy, 1 type, several hundred pounds of
The grantees of this franchise it, and new case cabinets, etc.,
are millionaire oil and gas men of i have also been added to the equip
Rortioaviiio Thpv anA ntwSment. so that now the Baxter
Tba "lire win REAL ESTATE EXCHANGE nan.
wealthy associates comprise the
men back of the Oklahoma &
Northern Railroad company, the
survey for which was recently
made by the Pplmer Engineering
company of Kansas City and
for which Richard Flood is at
present engaged securing right of
way between here and Picher.
At the council meeting Mr.,
Flood stated that it .was intention
or the company to start con
struction work at this end, that
actual operation would begin in
February and March.
Several weeks ago the company
ran a survey into the city along
Sheridan street, but occupation
of this street was included in the
franchise to the Southwest Mis
souri so Neosho was substituted
for the Bartlesville road.
The road from Bartlesville pro
mises much for Baxter and Jhe
personnel of the men back of it
is practically a sufficient guaranty
of good faith, that the road is to
be built. It passes through a won
derfully rich country, rich in lead
and zinc; at this end, immense
coal fields in the middle and
mammoth oil fields and the
largest smelters in the world at
Bartlesville. " -
In a later issue The News will
give a more complete description
of this country.
Former Baxterite Suicides.
Benjamin F. Crain, who will be
remembered by the older B arter
ites as having lived here for sever
al years, committed suicide re
cently in Aberdeen, Wash. The
information was sent here by C.
C. Pinnick, another former citizen
of this city, to his father, W. D.
Pinnick. Cram's home was in
Elma, Wash., where he conducted
a garage and blacksmith shop;
He had drives to Aberdeen and
had been "in . that city but a few
minutes. He drove up to a
garage and -conversed with the
bookkeeper a few minutes and
bidding him farewell left the office
and climbed into his machine.
The bookkeeper was of the opin
ion that he was about to drive
out. A moment later a shot fol
lowed by groans startled all the
garage. It was traced to Cram's
machine where his nearly lifeless
body was found. The bullet
went through the head and but
into the hallway. He is survived
by a wife and son and daughter,
both chQdrep being of age. He
was probably 43 years old.
printing plant is well equipped to
do any kind of printing. It re
mains to be seen whether it will
prove to have been foresight or
folly, making this considerable
expenditure to improve the News
plant right in the face of the
present exorbitant costs of print
ing paper and everything else in
the line that has already , put
hundreds of small papers out of
business. But The News man
believes in Baxter, and while the
present business does not warrant
the improvements we have made,
we believe that Baxter is going to
grow fast from now on and ere
long will give us plenty of oppor
tunity to make use of our invest
ment. It is the purpose of the
owner of The lews to be pre
pared to provide Baxter Springs
with whatever kind of a paper
the size and enterprise of the city
warrants. When our town gets
big enough and has a sufficient
number of wideawake advertisers
to make a daily necessary, we are
ready now to start one. But we
must grow a lot before a daily
can be made to pay here. To
make a little four-page daily paper
possible it would have to earn at
least a thousand dollars a month.
Our new location is the second
door south of the postofBce, where
the public is cordially invited to
call. Advertise your business;
The News is read by almost every
person m the uaxter territory;
bring your job printing to us, we
are prepared to do any kind of
work and give you first class
printing at as low a price as any
printing house outside of this
city.' If you are not a subscriber
let us add vour name to our
rapidly growing list, so that you
may keep in touch with the prog
ress of this fast 'changing. and
growing community. ineiMewa
"Boosts for Baxter all the time."
New Garage.
The new Jefferson Highway
Garage, at the corner of Military
and River street, Baxter Springs,
Kaa., on January 1st, or a few
days thereafter, will throw its
doors open to the public and be
ready for business. Besides a
complete repair- department with
a first class mechanic in charge,
we will carry in stock a complete
line of accessories, oils and gaso
line. AH work .guaranteed. Open
day and night. Phones, office No.
1; residence No. 10.
S. P. Schaefer, Prop.
Why do we say that the New ,
Edison is not a 'Talldng Machine"? .
-Here is the answer
There are nearly iCO different
makes of talking -machines and
so-called PhOnographs on the mar
ket" Each differs from the others
in certain mechanical details, but all
have a common characteristic in
varyi- g degree, viz,: a strident and'
unnatural tone. So much for all
talking machines.
Now with reference to -
The New' 1
Edison
BY actual comparison with more than a score of great, sing
ers and instrumentalists it has been demonstrated that the
New Edison re-creates all forms of music with such literal fidel
ity that the original cannot be distinguished from the Re-Crea- -tion
when both are heard, in direct comparison, ..The truth
fulness of this statement is not open to question. These com
parisons were made in public before more than 300.0CO
people and are chronicled in nearly 300 of America's principal
newspapers.
No talking machine could sustain such a test and no talking
machine manufacturer would dare to submit his machine to
such a test in public. Therefore, you will understand why
we say the New Edison- is not a talking machine.
J. W. GRANTHAM,
Baxter Springs, Kansas.
-PJANOS
Mtadgmarttn Ur Htlldty Oiwi e
KODAKS PHONOGRAPHS
lon't Pay St Twigq!
How many accounts have you paid twice,
just because you failed to take a receipt, or lost
it after you got it?.
. . Open a checking account at this bank
and pay all accounts by check. Then you need
never pay a debt more than once.
Evary Check a Receipt
You have a valid receipt in every check
you issue. It will stand in law. Isn't this
enough reason why you should bank your funds?
SMALL ACCOUNTS RECEIVE THE SAME
CAREFUL ATTENTION HERE AS
LARGE ONES "
The
BaxterNational Bank
WEAXSAKSBSSSOr THZ FEDERAL KE2SKVE BAJOC
Your Own Judgment
Nine times out of ten it pays to back your own
- judgment, especially In financial affairs. If s your money -you
spend and if you fail, you will have learned a lesson, .
and will profit by the experience..
When you permit other people to invest your money
for you, you usually pay dearly for their services. Our
bank does not invest your funds for you. .We merely
safeguard .your money until you are ready to invest it
yourself. Then if you want our advice, we will tfve it
cheerfully and to the best of our ability, but our first care
is to safeguard our depositors' fund and to offer all other
accommodations of modern banking. Can we be of any
service to you? .
OUH3 I3-TK3. CKLY CAKIt in CAJCTZH
crn:;iC3 in vncirrsrrro Ana
',
Banter State E
