- nin
nwo. w, in %=.M a.TO A 0D B.m D
NO. S79M ~ mcen. WA-HINGTON, ik -.. i'HURSDAY, D x E; M 28,.-1916OE..~lTeg
EXPECT GERMANY
TO OUTLINE PEACE
TERMS SECRETLY
Diplomats Here Think Kaiser
Ready to Tell Conditins -
in CdnfAdence. .
POLK ENCOUJRAGESBEIJEF
Ste Dpartmn Counselor Sussab
Poeilty of Informal Nftotia
tions with Teutoas.
P%609 advocate. iwacWmbgtN.. beaded
by Prefidlet Whon last night pimnned
thaw he. em the belief tht Germany
wf perpared to man to tohi govern
met,-under the close meal of Cmnfidence
a =tatuent of the terms upon which
the central aIII will end the war.
The hope was based upon statements
by high German offcils in this country
that Germany would not be averse to
s ecretly conveying to this country the
alms and objects of her military cam
paign. and upon persistent reporta from
abroad that neutral diplomatist, in Bar
lin were. or soon would be, In possession
of a confidential communication from the
German foreign ofice relating to the peace
situation.
No Annsaseement Made.
At the State Department no announce
nient was forthcoming as to the effect
of Germany's formal note, which failed
to comply with the President'm request
* ' for a statement of peace term. Inquiry
as to rossible informal confidential ne
gotiations, however, addressed to Coun
selor Polk of the department elicited the
following reply:
"As to whether Germany has commu
nicated any secret matter to neutral dip
tomats in Berlin. I would say that as
such a matter would be confidential, the
question could not be asked. But for to
day I am willing to answer: No."
The form of the counselor's answer was
generafly accepted as demonstrating the
possibility-or even the probability--of
informal negotiations which would pro
ceed. despite the apparent Impasse in
the formal peace correspondence, result
Ing from the German reply to the Presi
dent's note.
Believe Gerhamy 1m Ready.
Neutral diplomatists generally credited
W reports from abroad that Germany would
uve to this country, possibly to all neu
trals. a statement of her peace views, to
h. held inviolate until a similar state
ment could be mecured from the entente
Pewers. Officials of the German Ermbassy
declered t'at they had not btnm#advised
' f c prepa'ation of any much communi
e tion. but they admitted that they be
' t developments along this line
p's'pibl.
th-er ugestion emanating from
-Tan s re w-as that a su1pplement
v nm.-icatio from the central
v r dght I~-cnt to this country by
Tnorsky. the new Austrian Am
0'we t: arranging to start for
to soon na practicable. It
t. ,,t the -rntral powers might
be tu'.ilin to covmit themselves even
'lecotmniation, but that they
old transmit their peace policy state
'ent througih the new ambaessdor by
',?rd of mouth.
Nev Move by SpoIn.
The ros"ibility of a separate peace
moV b% SP:i liat night loomed up
a one of the developmnts receiving
o onile: ation by Washington
vra. Ambassador Riano de
hat ht had received no word
his government relative to the
rituatio'i. but that the embassy was
deepkl interested In reports from
abroad that Spain might invite the
1be!!ig0rnts to an "immediate" peace
,onference along the lines suggested
ermat, in both of her peace
Diplomatic circles here, however,
took the view that any separate peace
move at this time would be in the na
p ture of a side issue, which might sup
plement. but could not supplant, the
general efforts of the neutrals, headed
by the United States. to end the war.
Peace activity among the neutral dip
lomatic representatives continued un
abated.
Neutral diplomats credited reports
from abroad that Sweden had followed
Switzerland in a note to the belliger
ents, indorsing President Wilson's
peace program.
CARRANZISTAS JIJT1NY
'TO JOIN WITH VILLA
Four Hundred of Fist Chiefs Men
Desert to Enemy,
(By the laternattaeal Dews Servlem,)
El Paso, Dec. 27.-Four hundred Car
ranilsta troops, part of the command of
Gen. Gonzales, the deposed commander
of Juarez, mutinied at Villa Ahumada
late this afternoon and joined the
Villistas operating in that neighborhood
under Tames and the Quevado Brothers.
Gen Gonmalem, with 50S troope, left
Juaren tonight ostensibly for the mouth to
operate agaInst V~IIlstas. Carranma
adherents in Juare. profems the belief
that Gonzales either will baecaptured by
the Vllisetam at Villa Ahumada or will
join the Villistam with his 600 troops,
Via Ahumaa now Is In foil posession
of the Vltstam, together with the Gio
I ( ialem recrutts, a special train of thirty
five ears and a locomotIve,
Spring-Like Again Today;
CeId Waye Dre Temrw
Yiestrdar..pe..-.e wither wi he
repeated today, with the eeptien that
there Is to be no raIn. The day win
be eme, with a tailing Im-speratnre
whigh wiN he the foeruer= of a od
wsve. dim here tomerrow.
Waranlus of a eeM1 wave entending
trim Northern Missppt, nethward
Swere ereered yederday by the Weathe
Bss.Tswan am----panied by the
sasiete it h m.de.
The eMs wave wran was eresnei
laWestra Tinmiese'lNether
N ehs em and as emes set
Pr..it Wi.. had a praHte -h e
ahow at the White luse last ngt.
The exhibition, arranged by el. W.
W. Hart., the Preeident's aintary aid,
showed pla for hmproving puble build
inga and grounde in the National Cap
The President has afested deep in
terest Is plans for further beautifying
the Captl.
WAIT FOR COURT
Eight-Hour law Not to Go
Into Effect January 1.
Nw ork Dc. .-Forma notice was
Smsi to noe Waskinela Mmli.
served today on UM Brotherhood em
ployee throughout the conutry that the
Adamnon Eight-Hour law wl not be
put Into effet on January 1 and that.
Pending the declico of the United States
Supreme Court. the accounts of the
read, will be "kept in such a manner
that, if the constitutionality of the
eight-hour bill be upheld, the men ahall
promptly receive any back pay due under
the decision of the court."
Two months ago it was announced that
such an arrangement would be entered
into betweenthe attorneys foo the gov
ernment and he railroads. Some of the
leading lawyers of the country argued
at that time that the goverment could
make no such arrangement with a bill
passed by Congress abd that the law
would have to go into effect January 1.
whether or not the railroads liked It.
When the railroads, however, showed
a determination to test the constitution
alty of the lay, Attorney General Greg
ory agreed to what In practically a stay
of its operation. The brotherhood law
yers have had no part in this agreement
and the brotherhoods themselves have
only taci1r assented to it.
The formal announgement of the stay
was communicated to the employee In
printed statements posted in all the
yard., assembly rooms. station houses
and roundhouses of the railroads this
morning.
GERMANY IS BUILDING
GIGANTIC NEW "SUDS"
Navy Department Hears of Plans for
Great Undersea Fighting Type.
Submarines of hitherto undreamed of
fensive power and radius of action are
under construction by Germany.
The Navy Department here O been
informed, it was learned yesterday, that
these great undersea fighting units are
being rushed to completion In German
shipyards and will be :igt into service as
fast ais they are completed.
The only example of German submarine
warcraft to reach American shores-the
U-53, which put into Newport unexpect
edly gfter an unheralded trans-Atlantie
voyage-will be dwarfed in size and pow
er by the new type of submersible, the
information here shows.
While possessing greater speed and
cruising radius than Present types, the
most striking feature of the new vessels
ta the fact that six-inch guns are mount
led fore and aft. This may result in do
I ing away with the feature of undersea
warfare to which the administration has
objected so strongly since the beginning
of the war-destruction of enemy ship
ping without warning.
Naval officers here who are regarded
as international law authorities pointed
out that the new submarines will be able
to lie so far away from vessels and sig
nal them to stop by firing a shot across
their bows that the danger of defensive
guns on merchantmen reaching the sub
mersible is gone or at least greatly min
imized.
ENTENTE'S ANSWER TO
GERMANY IS URAFTED
Allies Nearly Ready to Forward Reply
to Germany.
(by the Internatieal News Seoysee.)
London, Dec. yL.-Progress of the peace
negotiations took this concrete form
today:
Russia has drafted her reply to the
German proposal of a peace conference
and has telegraphed it to the French
government for its informatm. Russia
has not yet delivered her reply to the
American Ambassador, but is waiting to
bear from her allies. Russia's answer
%FI be a firm refusal.
France wtIl make probably the longest
and most detailed answer to Germany.
I This answer has been written after 4
conference with England. France will
refer to the causes of the war and will
state her unwillingness to enter Into
peace negotiations until Germany has in
dicated her willingness to accept terms
that will make peace just and lasting.
The British reply to Germany will be
briefer than the French reply, probably,
but of the name general tenor. It will
be a flate refusal to enter into a son
ference with Germany, until Germany ha.
shown her hand.
The purport of all the replies will be a
refusal by the aliem, jointly and sever
ally.\of German's propoeal, hot the door
will be left open for a reply.
In the meentime all the belligerent.
will continue unaheted preparationg on
the largest mdle for a new on..nsve in
The reply to President Wilmon peace
'note will not he taken up by any one of
the allies until the aweP he. been dim
patched to the German proposal. which
preceded the' Presidenta letter. But if
Germany's anawer in snt by Saturday
of thin week, it in probable that the allies
wil agree apon their aaswer to President
Wileon next week,
New York, Dec. E.--"The United States
is a ntien of economic iluiterates," Fran
A. VY7t, presideet of the ,Natiemal
ciymno ewT toM naamnhr.
Itheir een eo here teday.
"We have some elena by the rule of
thusab --e a nhod. -he .dded, ud
iase etelmee4e buseni
issm oinse ue abeste
is ilesmg te.
TEUTONS SMASH
RUMANIAN UNE
Mwk-n's Army Breaks
Through on Ten-Mile
Front.
(my the Internatdenal News servls.)
nmashing a gap ten and one-half miles
wide Into the Russo-Rumanian frefleld
protecting the Sereth line, Field MarshaI
von qackensen's ninth army of Kron.
stadt fame, effected the great "break
through" for which the Teutons have
fought in a terrific battle. lasting five
days.
Rimnicu-Sarat, the vital 'rail head
northeast of Buseu, is in Teuton hands.
Bralls, the great Danube port, forty
five miles to the east, surrounded from
three sides, is outflanked and must fall
automatically. as must the Macin bridge
head, now being battered by Mackensen's
Dobrudja forces.
Galata. the Last remaining source of
supply for the Rumanians from Beesa
rabia, becomes the immediate objective
of the Invaders' right wing while the
center, driving north from Bbmnlcu
Sarat, is aiming at Fpcsaml. The an
ter is now only twenty-five rgiles from
the Sereth line.
A total of 8,900 Prisoners . has been
taken by the Teutons since December 27
-7,600 by the Ninth army and 1,300 by
the Danube forces.
Petrograd admits a withdrawal of the
Russo-Rumanian lines at two places, on
the Rlmnicu-Sarat highroad and in the
region of the upper Rimnicu-Sarat River.
In other sectors the Russian war of
fice asserts, the assaults of the invaders
were beaten back "with great tosses' to
the attpekern. Some machine guns were
captured by the Russians in counter at
tacks.
Mackensen's great thrust in front of
the Sereth line holds a serious menace to
the Russian front in the wooded Car
pathians. If the momentum of the latest
"break-through" is as strong as is Indi
cated by the Berlin report, and the driv
Ing power of the Teuton center Is what
it was in the Rumanian battles, the final
attack on the Sereth line should come
before the end of this week.
A piercing of that line would shake the
whole Russian front from GaLacia down
to the northern tip of the Transylvanian
Alpine ridges.
BURNED WIFE'S DRESS
OFF, HIS SONS TESTIFY
Youngsters Declare Father Held Tem
Back-Woman Dies.
We young boys. I and 10 years old.
yesterday told how their father set fire
to their mother's kerosense-soaked dress.
holding them until the woman's cloth
ing was burned from her body, before a
coroner's jury investigating the death :f
illy J. Ransom. Stephen J. Ransom, col
ored, husband of the woman who died
early yesterday at Freedman's Hospital,
was held for the action of the grand
jury following the testimony of his two
sons and other witnesses.
According to the children. WIlliam, 7
years old, and Stephen, 10 years old, their
father lighted a match and threw it ,n
his wife's lap. She had been cleaning
the floors with kerosene and her cloth
1gg was saturated with the oil. The
younger boy attempted to aid his mother
in extinguisking the flames. This angered
the father, the boy testified. and he then
lighted a piece of paper and threw it
in his wife's lap, holding the boys and
allowing the clothing of the woman to
be burned from her body while the
children screamed and he watched the
fire.
Later the boys testified, Ransom sent
for a doctor. Policeman Miller, of the
Ninth precinct, investigated the case with
Detective Sergeant Springman and Pre
cnct Detective Delamico.
HOUSE REPUBLEANS
PLAN PARTYCONFAB
May Meet After Recess to Formulate
Governing Policy.
Immediately upon the reassemblIng of
Congress after the holiday recess, a con
crete effort will be made to bring about
a conference of Republican members who
have been re-elected for the Sixty-fifth
Congress, together with such members
of the party recently elected, with a
view of formulating a policy rbr the con
duct of the party in the tower House of
Congress after March 5.
The movement is the result of the re
cent outbreak of Representative A. P.
Gardner, of Massachusetts, in which he
announced his Opposition to the selec
tion of Mr. Mann as Speaker of the next
House. Mr. Mann has thus far, however,
withheld his approval of the proposition.
Such a conference, it Is felt by Repub
licans of all the varying shades of be
lief, will go a long ways toward settling,
in advance of the gathering of the Sixty
fifth Congress, many questions of policy
and party practices. It will allow the
new members to get acquainted and pro
side opportunity for concessions and
counter-concessions whIch will go a long
way toward Insuring unity of action and,
party solidarity in the season of strife
which must follow organination of the
House by the opposition party.
Despite the universat desire of Wash
ington oflielals to "get Congress off their
hands." Administration leaders were pee
simisitc last night as to the posiit
of concluding the legislative business
before the present Congress expires
March 4,
They were inglned to belIeve that only
herculean efforts by both Honseand
Senate can prevent an egtra session of
the new Congress soon after Presdent
Wilson Is inaugurated,
ASEB SALE 01 RAILWjas.
a Francisco, Cdi., Dee. 7-The An
glo-London and- Paris National Bank,
boiders of $1,I0,00 worth of bonds issued
by the Market Itreet fleilway hn 1I12
thi afternoon filed suit aglnst the Mar
ket Sheet Railway end the United Rail
rash forecos a mortgage hid on all
the ptoportg dl the Market St all
way end the different traceim.on pra
tiena included in the 135 eom..man,
The .bank asks to have the uaate
de s,ues.. e S eas an
For Peer "Eiles"
Th0 time-l a. sa. today.
The plaoe-Belaso Theater.
The attraction--Aanefte Eeler
mAnn in the Mm masterpieco, "A
Daughte. ot the Goda' -
The .aee-*. Washington
"kiddi and some of their
mothers.
The hOeta-Managemeat of the
Belsaco Theater. The Washington
Haraid, the William Fox ilm Cor
pat.o., and the Associated
Chares,
FILM FETE TODAY
1,500 Poor "Kiddies" to Be
Guests at Belasco.
There will be 1,110 or more delighted
and expectant ,'kiddies" in the Belasoo
Theater at It O'clock this morning, when
Manager I Stoddard Taylor gives the
signal to start the unwinding of the
masterful film spectacle, "A Daughter of
the Gods." exclusvely for the entertain
ment of the poor children of the District
who have few opportunities to witness
such screen classics.
It will be a g, "movie" day for the
"kiddles," and tt eagerness with which
they accepted the invitations of the via
itorn of the Associated Charities who
are dispensing the invitations indicates
that the-size of the theater is the only
thing that will restrict the size of the
appreciative audience that will watch
Annette Kellermann, the human mermaid,
terform skillful aquatic feats and direct
her army of denisens of the sea in move
ments that are a delight to the eye and
wilir please each little film critic whose
eyes are alive to the wonder of screen
pictures.
Yet erday was a busy day for the com
mittee of arrangements. Manager 1.
Stoddard Taylor personally extended the
invitation to a number of the charitable
institutions of the District to have the
little inmates as his guests, and in each
case the invitation was accepted.
Eight visitors from the Associated
Charities worked throughout the city dia
pensing the tickets to poor children who
looked upon the precious pasteboards. In
many cases,. as a second visit from Santa
Claus.
The visitors worked in co-operation with
the church authorities who are familiar
CONM'NUED ON PAGE TME.
Telgraph Tips |
London. Dec. 27.-The Norwegia steam
ship Sn, I82 tons, has been sunk, says
a dispatch from Lloyds today.
Paris. Dec. 27.-Lieut. Herteaux brought
down hi- fourteenth enemy aeroplane on
Dec. i. the war office announced todgy.
Bound Brook, N. J., Dec. 7-State Sen
ator W. W. Smalley. died here early to
dqy. lie was 66 yearsa old.
Norfolk, Va., Dec. 27.-Navy officers
who examined the t'. S. S. Delaware to
day declared she could not be made ready
for sea before Jan. 15. and probably later.
The Delaware was rammed last night by
the fleet tender Sonoma.
Buffalo, N. Y., Dec. 2.-Morria Gold. of
Philadelphia, shot and killed Sophia Snit
ser. 22, at No. 23 Spring street. this city.
today, and then shot himself, dying in
stantly. The couple were to have becn
married tomorrow.
Berlin (via Sayville wireless). Dec. 27.
Nine allied aeroplanes have been shot
down by the Germans on the western
front, the official statement said today.
Chester, Pa., Dec. 2.-The body of the
man found shot to death on the 1ast
Ninth street bridge terly Sunday. was
today identified as that of Isaac Taylor.
of Toledo, Ohio. and the local police and
Philadelphia detectives are working on
several clues by which they hope to clear
up the mystery within a few days.
New Yerk, Dec. 2.-The engagement of
Miss Gladys C. C. Fries, to E. Roland
Harriman. son of the late E. H. Harri
man, was announced today. The wed
ding probably will take place in the early
spring.
New York. Dee. 27.-The board of gov
ernors of the New York Stock Exchange
this afternoon granted the petition of
the members to close the exchange ie
cember 30.
Pneumonia killed thirteen Guardsmen
and four regulars at the border during the
week ending December 23. the War De
partment announced yesterday.
St. Louis, Dec. 27.-Shot in the stomach
by a policeman who mistook him for a
robber, Rev. Lot E. Doty. Baptist min
ister. was reported dying today.
Steger, Ill.. Dec. 27.-Belief that Thomas
King, 93 and his son, Thomas King, Jr.. 66,
burned to death In a fire which destroyed
their home here Christmas Day, were
murdered for $2,000 led authorities to be
gin an investigation today.
Paris, Dec. 27.-The engagement of Miss
Eleanor Thackara. daughter of the Amer
ican consul general, to Frederick Cauld
well, of Washington, was announced to
day. The wedding *ill take place in
Boston next month.
London. Dec. 27.-Immediate action by
the British government upon the home
rule for Itgland question is expected, ac
cording to the Manchester Guardian. The
paper adds that consultationa on this sub
ject are proceeding.
Mexico City, via Galveaton, Dec. 27.
Gen. Luis Herrera, one of the best known
Carransista commanders, has been killed
in a battie with bandits near Torreon,
it was announced here today.
Buffalo. N. T., Dec. 27.-Mgr. Paul D).
Hoolsbber, 6, for thirty years rector of
St. Louis' Church and one of the best
known priests in Western New Tork died
this afternoon. lHe was a native of Ger
many.
Tokyo Dec. 11.--The Japeanese sateam
ship Iaoikau Maru. with 400 persona on
hoard, has ge ashore of Chefoo, Chia,
says a dispatch reoeived hers today,
Amnga the pessengers on the naaun
Ma nm-em Ammmn. Ubsn he o -
RAISES TO gO
IN INDIAN 1i
Senate Committee to Grant
Increases if Baced by
A opriations Body.
Another step forward for the adVeass1
of higher salaries for Federal and i]
trict employee was .ds.yed.,rday.
the aenate Commoittee em Tndan affairs
agreed that the and d 1 per cent graded
increse would be written Into the fi-n
dian bill. provided that schedule was ao- c
cepted as the standard by the seate
Committee on Appropriations when It
cozpders the legislative. executive. and ,
judicial appropriation measure.
The concession marked a point forl
which the legislative representatives of
the Federal limployes' Union have beenj
striving in the interest of 1400 employee
Included In the Indian 'ill.
H. IL McL.rin, of the Federal Em-I
ployes' Union. and Min Florence Ether
idge. treasurer of the organisation pre
sented the cam for the employee at the I
hearing granted labor representatives. t
They declared that the dapoeition of
Congress was not to discriminate against
any employs in the service, according to;
leaders on both sides of the House and!
Senate. "What Is fair for one, Is fair I
for all." said Mr. McLarlu. "and I fel,
Your committee will see the injustice ofI
giving this Increase to employes nameds
In one men -tre and excluding those in
other supply bills, equally entitled to
these increases." ;
It was explained that the Indian bll
was the first appropriation bill conald
ered by the House and that it was re
ported and acted upon favorably before
the matter of higher smaaries had become d
acute.
After hearing the representatives of the b
union, the committee, through its chair
man. Senator Ashurst, announced In
formally that there was no disposition to
deal other than fairly with the Pederal
employes. If the sense of the Congress
is that all employee of the grade below
1.200 are entitled to 10 per cent increase
and those betwein 1,10 and a1NS to
5 per cent. then the Indian Affairs Com
mittee wIll not discriminate.
With the 5 and 10 per cent increases
Included In the legislative and the In
CONTINUED ON PAGE TWO.
I. C. C. WOULD FORCE
b,
DISTRIBUTION OF CARS :
Railways Expected to Fight Unauthor-I
ized Action of Federal Body. is
The Interstate Commerce Commission P
today will put to the test its latest at- tU
tempt to arrogate to Itself further pow- tj
era over the American transportation sys- ,
tem. not expressly invested in It by Con- B
gres. G
RepresentatIves of the American rail- U
roads are summoned to appear before el
the comission to show oause why that N
body should not issue drastic orders re- j,
quiring railroads to handle cars In ac- ti
cordance with the commission's dictates. C
with a view to clearing up the car short
age and car congestion situation. a
The commission has not express juris- r
diction over the movement and distribu- ja
tion of freight cars, but as a last resort
in clearing up tihe present serious trans
portation situation. it has taken a leap '1
in the dark and 1ill attempt to settle Ir
the difficulties on assurled authority. 9
As a result of this action it is expected it
that the Railroads will go Into the courts C
to fight any orders the commission may I
issue which are distasteful to them. g,
These vases will be fought up to the Su
preme Court of the United States and It t
Is expected the commission will be upheld c
as in the past. bi
WILSON TO CELEBRATE
6OTH BIRTHDAY TODAYk
Occasion Will Be Observed at White P
eo
House Without Ceremony. ti
President Wilson is o year@ of age to
day, but with the exception of a quiet
family dinner party, at the White House
the occasion will not be otherwise cele
brated.
Within the last few days, the Chief
Executive has informed friends that he
Is in better health than at any time
during the last ten years.
He plays golf every day the weather
permits. goes to bed seldom later than
U o'clock and gets up early. -
To this daily routine. Dr. Gary T. Gray
son. the White House physician, at
tributes the Presidents splendid physical
condition which gives him the appear
ance of a man much younger than the
admitted three-score years.
President Wilson was born in Staunton, g
Va., December 28, 1%. - n
ACTOR WANTS HEART RAL tr
di
Chicago. Dec. 27.-Thomuas M. Gregory,
registered at a local hotel as from Pitts- P
burgh, today declined to comment upon Is
a soit for 110.000 brought by Herbert b
Gebauer. vaudevIlle actor, who charges u
alienation of Mire Gebauer's affecticns.
Gebauer's petition charges that Gregory. ~
president of the galvanizing company and o
reputed to be a miilnaire, has followed
Mrs. Gebauer from city to city, shower
ing her with gifts, flowers and dinners. im
Gregory. Gebauer seys, is a married man.
'Bunk.' was the way Mrs Gebauer1
characterized the salt. "CoincIdence haa gg
thrown Mr. Gregory and myself together
in several cities.'' e said. "I canceled
the affection clause the third day after
I married Gebauer. is pockets are lied t
with fishbooks and 'I em compelled to
make my own living." h
p
, BEER UP; GUN M ALTR.
Mauch Chunk. PS.. Dec 1.-The wale..
sale liquor dealems in Carbon Osnty
have. raised the prise of beer to $fm allh
harrei. The -sa-nha-- are pamin I'
to meet the Incease Up reducing the me I
of the glass. Ii
Owing to the Inermesed price of "wt ii
goods" which neessinted the sstth5 I
dewn of the ennti~ ermerly glvem haL
and he e inaa
CARRANZA I
TO ACCEF
Zuesions Fairness of
Ambssador-Desi
Leave X
WEXICAN SITU)
Ve-satiano Carraza. Fit Chief
Al arranged by the Atlantic City Cow
ates, as a wbrking basis for settlem
fairsil.
Shortly after it became known
adiated the action 'of his envoys, it
,emasador Designate Eliseo Arredoz
yrtnight
It was also learned from Mexica
ould probably leave Washington as a
lat negotiations had ended.
REVERTS TO 6
The action of Carranza in refu
lexican imbroglio the same status as
ons. The whole matter of withdrawi
as reverted to the circumstances wh
wveral months ago a vital step to
so countries.
While it is known that the War D
ie border from any untoward manife
etion, it was denied by department c
reaks were anticipated.
lOOM IN BANKING
ational Institutions Gain Four
Billion Dollars in Two Years.
'he national banks of the United States
Lve greater resources than at any pre
ous time in the history of the national
inking system, according to a report on
eir condition as of November 17. issued
r Comptroller of the Currency Williams
isterday.
Tbe national banking resources have
croased more than fdur billion dollars
the two years the Federal Reserve
'stem has been in operation. These
anking resources. representing but a
>rtion of the total banking resources of
ie United States, no* exceed by more
Lan a hillion dollars the combined re
turces of the Bank of England. toe
ank of France, the Bank of Russia. the
ernan Reichabank. the tank of Italy.
ie Bank of Spain, the Bank of the Neth
'lands, the Bank of Dienmark. the Swiss
ational Bank. and the Imterial Bank of
ipan. according to the latest reports of
it condition of these institutions, the
otnptroller says.
In addition to these resoures of the
ktional banks. must be added the tre
endous bankhig iower of the State and
iings banks and trust companies.
On November 17 i . total resources of
merican national banks amounted to
5.0.000.000, an ire ase of 3 per cent
two years. The in, rease aloe ia
rest as the resores (of the State banks
vo ycars ago. Tire comp;ilation.' says
rmptroller Wiltiams, disrlos a condi
on of strength, of progress. and of
-owth beyond all predt.
Comptroltr Williatis draws attention
the wide dissem.nation of the Amen
in banking poser. Whereas national
nking strength fomerly was congested
the Eaot, reports on November 17
row that the &ourres in the Southern.
Iddle Western. WNstern, and Pacife
Ates amounted to more than the total
sources of at rtational banks in the
untry as late As 1.
In the last two years the Eastern
ates gained 0 per cent: New England
ates. 22 per cent; Southern Statee. 32
,r cent; Middle Western States. 11 per
nt; Western States, 50 per cent, and
ie Pacific States. 33 per cent.
YERY SEVENTH FAMILY
NOW HAS A "RIVVER"
fhich Means There Are 3.500.000
Autos in the United States.
By the lateraetstal News Service.)
New York. Dec. 27.-If you are a seventh
,n or a seventh daughter. y ou should
sve an automobile.
Every seventh family In the UnIted
ates owns one, according to figures
ven out today by the National Auto
obile Chamber of Commerce.
Its census. based on account of auto
obiles lost June and the estimated Pr'
tction since that date, shows 3.500sir
rs in the country today. The popula
on of the U'ntted States (not counting
reign possessIons) Is 102.000.00 or .
i.000 families on the cenaus bureau's
sae of four persons to a famIly, Fig
v out the car averz yourself.
The production of automobiles tn the
nited States for the first ala r,"-ag
1916 was 7/9,000. according to figure.
the Chanber of Commserce.
The total number of cars registered
the country on July I was 2AG4,
these New York had the greatest
amber, SS,15. Ohio was second wlth
1.,5. fellowed by llinoia with 75.17
nasylvana lUA and CalIfornia 18r.EIS,
It is esimate tht the diatribution 'if
irs prodneed desing the last bait et
as year will give New York 4.0g-w a
dal of NMl Other States wIll sheo.
creases, snording to H. W. Pedy, of
as (2aamber of Coinneree.
SN00TB TWO; DEUF CROWD.
New Yerk. Dec. 2.-Mistaken, it is be
ged, for- two men whe ieomntly fisd
aiy to esesie the aengance of the
laba. Ang45ine Dastaaa and Nieoo
statt wese stot ad sm6ttsly wounded
idsy by an unident~fied nmn in a rsaloon.
sre. Melding a ceowd In the place at
a, wit Ma reiete the straniger en
The Wsed mmn wige t~ te
)ECLINES.
T PROTOCOL
joint Commission Plan.
gnate Expected to
ashington.
TION CRITICAL
of Mexico. has disapwped the pase
-issi- of American and Meica dae
sent of Mexico's tangled intaational
in Washington that Carranza had me
was declared in diplmiatr cigriga that
do would leave here within the we
in sources that the Mexican diplomt
on as formal announement waa made
)RER STATUS.
sng to ratify the protocal. gives the
before the commison began its ses
ng the United States troops in Mexico
ich made the call for the confereace
preveig further breaches between the
epartment has taken atepa to safegeard
stations which might follow Carranza's
fficials last night that any actual at
Note Received Here.
The communication from the head
of the de facto government of Mex
ico, objecting to the terms of tine
protocol, was receivAl here last night
and was at once placed in the hands
of translators to be prepared for
transmission to the State Depart
ment.
While the Mexican Embassy deeitned
to disclose the contents of the commnti
cation from Carranza. or even to admit
Its arrival. It was learned from official
sources that the rerly %as unfavorable.
It was stated that the first chief ques
tioned the fairness and etalty of the ar
rangement made by the joint comae
slon, end sought to force a continuance
of negotiations, evidently with the hea
of securing more favorable terms.
state Depetsmaot Imeatseot.
What action the administration will
take as a result of the Carransa reply
could not be ascertained. but a feelink
of impatience was apparent among Stat
Department oflacils. They declined to -
discuss the situation, asserting that the
entire matter was still In the hands of
the joint commission. Representatives
of the latter. which Is hfetdd by Sec
retary of the Interior Lae, were out
spoken in their belief that the Carransa
government has about reached the limit
of the extraordinary patience display ed
toward Mexico.
The reply of Gen. CarrsaaL wIll prob
ably be turned over to the Amnercar.
members of the commission, which has
been alled together by Chairman ILne
to meet in Washington later this week.
It is helleved that the members of the
commission are opposed to any further
consideration of any counter-prosposl
which may be made by the de facto
govern.-ent In Mexico.
They are understood to be prepared to
re commend draetic diplomatic action
un ess Carranza accept, the commission's
protocol withopt quibble.
JuSt how far recommendations along
this line would be endoroed by the lState
repamrtment and the President. and made
effectIve. was doubtful last night. The
President, throughout his dealing with
Mexico, has shown an Inclination to give
the de facto government every op
portunity to work out its own salvation.
and diplomatic circles here while
recognizing that another Mexican
"crislt" was et hand were not inclined
to look for serious developments last
night.
May Break with Caieasa.
There was considerable discussion.
however, of the probability of a complete
break In all diplomatic relatiors with the
Carranza government The diplomatio
relations of the two countries. however.
are exceedingly tenuous at p-eesnt, and
CONTINUED ON PAGE Two.
JUAREZ NOW IN GRIP
OF REIGN OF TERROR
Half-Starved Carranza Soldiers Com
mitting Depredations Nightly.
By L. V. B. RUCER
(Internatieal News seseSte.)
EI Paso. Tex.. Dec. 2 -luarez is In the
grip of a reign of terrar. Half starved,
poorly clad Carransa soldIers, driven te
delpratjon by hunger and the rigors ot
a winter In Northern MexIco, elad omly hn
the cotton uniform of the tropon, ase
committing depredations nIghtly to Ob
iln food end ighgig.. ..
ECvery nig~ a daema
dera, nuver ti tb the asths
ties. The bodIes generaily are bested he
one trench. A warm overcoat or M
elothes is worth a Enan's life to ow.
Blankets and clothIng aro being stoiea by
the wholesale.
The trou~ble started with the ardlval et
the troopa under Glea. Margula, sg to
relIeve Gten. Geoasalee,
Since their arrival he Imoa a wee
ago, the troops have Uet been paid. A
dysl warawas aareowety aveen by the
departure of Gen. Gemle ad a
troops to asit Ia th deteme at CM
huahua City. Pert of Gen. Mutra'
troops fonow thnenm to the eapito ta.
Paris, Dee. UK-Pesah e la anae~ et
life are partsa- hsmass to the mamary
af Sme. de Thebee, ferams eesea, whe
d1ed en 8oda at her o beme to h
bshas the Wm m ammma
