. a via tip i
THE . WEATHER FORECAST
Local rajna.or snows to-day; to-morrow
fair and colder; modirata wtt winds.
HlchMttonpiratart yesterday, 40: lowMt, 3.
Detailed weather, mill and marine report on paf 11.
IT SHINES FOP ALL
VOL. LXXXfV. NO. 119.
ONE CENT TSTn;. xSS
NEW YORK, THURSDAY, DECEMBER 28, 1916. ntin. . b prtnmo pwum9 Awtum.
SENATORS IN
REVOLT OVER 4
PORK BARREL
Newlandsv Frames Round
Robin Against SSvamp
Land Reclamation.
5,000,000 GRAB'S '
DEFEAT EXPECTED
Vigorous JProtest, Liberally
Signed; Will Be Made
Public Soon.
OPPOSITION.BATTLE
QUIETLYARRANGED
Inside Details of Effort to
Rob the;Ppckets of
Uncle Sam.
PRESS AND PUBLIC FLAY
PORK BILLS IN CONGRESS
$120,000,000 Raid on Federal Treasury Described as a
National Scandal and Reproach The Worst
This Country Has Experienced.
EXPRESSIONS from public men and editorials from leading news
papers of the country .within the tut few days show a rising resent
rnent against the touch's trlpte assault upon the United States Treasury
through the omnibus public building bill, the Mood reclamation bill and
the river and harbor bill, which together will appropriate more than
$to,ooooo, a large part of it for wholly unnecessary and extravagant
projects. The attempted looting of the Treasury, in which the Southern
Democrats are having a gleitul part, is described in many utterances as a
national scandal and a reproach.
Below are extracts ftom a few of the recent comments on the Demo
cratic pork measures:
Fakll Ledger, rktlaaelfhla Every
thing that Congressman Clark of Flor
ida, the unblushing- father of the pork
barrel public bulldlni bill, which pro
poses to leach millions from a rapidly
emptying treasury, says in l:s defence
but confirms the odious character of the
measure. It Is conceived In the worst
kind of cheap sectionalism to begin' with,
la persisted In from the most sordid of
motives the m.r dalr of Congress
men "to get something" for their dls- deficit for 1917. according to Mr. Mc-
J -i- m i i . ' IAm DmiMm Wltwin'a BPAtarv of
grasp the Idea that the United Btat:s
does not consist of the narrow strip lying
along the Atlantic littoral, but embraces
In addition some two million or more
square miles which deserve considera
tion. In short, It believes any proposi
tion relating to a domestic improvement
deserves to be treated on Its merits and
that none should be damned by senseless
assaults by uninformed editors upon a
system.
Knickerbocker Frets. Albaay The
WAsjiinoto" Dec. t A Senatorial
retina robtb. directed " against the so
called "flooi reclamation bill," which was
described In Th,8un this morning aa
the latest and most flagrant manifests
tlen of the "pork barrel" politics of
Southern Senators, and Representatives,
ha been circulated quietly among Bena-
ters and will be made public In a few
ays.
The paper has been liberally signed.
Senator Newlands, Democrat, who has
long been an ardent advocate of scien
tific flood control free of sectional' bias
and void of real estate exploitation, has
taken the -lead -In organising the protest
against the big flood reclamation grab
engineered by Southern -Senators and
members In the Interest of Ave States.
As soon aa the majority of ,the Com
nUttee on Commerce of the Senate de
cided to report the flood reclamation
measure and limit Us benefits to four
States Senator Newlands protested. He
called Into conference a number of hi
colleagues ,ol both parties and pointed
out to them the narrow, sections! and
i"pork" character of the bill as reported
and he found that be had many sympa
thisers In his fight on the scheme.
The protest Is expected to finish the
flood reclamation!!!. It can never sur
vive the tight thai la to be made a-jalnst
It by Senators on both aides or the cham
ber, in the opinion of leaders who learned
to-nlcht of' the activity of Senator New-
lands and the success thst has attended
his efforts to organise against the latest
Southern Democratic "pork" barrel.
.Early Paktlvatloa.
The nroteat aralnst the flood reclarmv
tlon crab may be published to-morrow,
but will certainly be made public before
the. session meets next week. The coun
try will hear from' It before (he Senators
behind the bill get a chance to put across
the measure to boom swamp land real
estate.
If the flood reclamation bill, one of the
trinity of "porW" measures by which the
Southern Democrats controlling Congress
are seeking to tap the Treasury, succeeds
In rettlns- throuch the Senate and la
tinned by the President; the taxpayer Of
the cktmtry,' It Is 'asserted by those who
nave, analysed the Dill, win nave io xsay
55 per cent of the expense of a project
rivalling In magnitude and In engineer
ing difficulties the Panama Canal 1
But while, the Panama Canal was
undertaken tot the; benefit of the whole
country and of 'the world, the sole Dene
flclsries of this land scheme wll be the
owners of the" H.COO.dOO" acres of land
to be reclaimed along the, lower Missis
sippi, l'n no way will -the Northern or
Weltern States benefit from this pro
posed scheme.' fJo such proposition has
ever before come before Congress.
The plan tp -make rice and cotton
plantations 'out of 'swamp lands with
money from' the .Federal Treasury and
thus enable the -owners' to reap a for
tune at a mere trifling expense to them
elves Is not a. new -one. It has been
srltated for years. But the early pro
jectors of thls huge Southern real estate
promotion scheme apparently never
dreamed of any such proposition as Is
presented 'In the bill which the Southern
statesmen have already succeeded In
getting through the House and having
reported In the Senate.
The First Idea "Ratertalaed.
When the Idea was first advanced In
the South that the Government should
virtually . canalize the -Mississippi and
make swamp landa forimiles back of
the proposed 1,200 miles of levees blos
som Into rice and cotton fields It was
thought that the owners of the land to
be benefited' would have to pay a large
hare or the expense. "
Voicing the plan that was i In mind
when the flood -control committee was
appointed at ths. Isst session. Speaker
Clark said that ha did nor oeueve mat
Congress would consent to drain private
land at public, expense, but he believed
that a scheme similar to the Western
Irrigation measures could bo devised by
which the overflowed lands could be
drained -and -the owners pay for- the
drainage. i ' t
Syndicates In, the South Interested In
the Droanefstaseik pointed out that .In
some esses the Government had defrayed
one-third of the ' expense of building
short sections of levees to reclaim lands.
But the bill conceived by the flood com
mittee, controlled by the Representa
tives of six Southern (Hates, proposes
that the taxpayers, of the country shall
contribute II for every II contributed
by the owners of the land In the Initial
undertaking of constructing the levees
to hold back th Mississippi.
In order to accomplish the' reclama
tion r ikia .latiit luwiVir. much more
must be dot than merely- to build the
levees .high moafa t imprison ,ine river
within 'a narrow chaaaal aa compared
with IU present width.
Tatal, lavalTa.
Government, eatirtaera, the) record
hows. u.tlsua he for tha flood commit
tee that that Uveas should be protected
bv N.imuit'iiiia.-tlut they should
be lined by caaoret. "The ax pause of
this. irvnrJtB. tka atajrlassrs. would
be about nilUMK. v.atuurmtom
c$ntmmmimaSaTru
tricts and It proposes to gild the
squalor of unprogresslve "poor white"
hamlets In the uttermost .recesses of the
pine belts or the mountain redone of
the South with millions of money for
Federal buildings just to amuse back
woodsmen largely and to replace' the vil
lage store as' a. lounging place.
An effort at this time to spend $11,
400,000 of taxes for such work when the
United States faces the greatest deficit
since the civil war Is more thsn folly.
It rises to the dimensions of a national
scandal. The very worst form of pork
barrelling Is found In erecting In sage
brush villages 175,000 granite structures
for post offices. It has happened In
many cases that the total post office re
ceipts In such towns are not one-quarter
Urge enough to- pay the Interest on the
cost of the building.
Moat. Sraadalpae Barrel,
Dally Cosrast, Hartford It Is
the
Adoo, .President Wilson's Secretary of
the Treasury, will be I18S.000.000.
What will be the deficit for 111? Does
anybody know, or care? Certainly the
members of Congress do not, for they
are now bent with all their famous
energy on a public building bill carry
ing 135.000.000. a "flood prevention" bill
carrying 145,000,000 and a river and
harbor bill carrying 140,000,000 1120.
000,000 of pork alleviated here and
there with a streak of worthiness, but
for the most part sheertpolltlcal waste
or publlo funds.
And In the meantime what Is being
done about protecting the United States
SUBWAY COST
(HIT FOR CITY
Entrances Along William
St, Obtained Free by P.
S. C. Diplomacy.
NEW "HUB OP TRAFFIC"
Wall Street Station Expected
to Be One of the Busiest
in New York.
Diplomacy on the part of representa
tives of the Pubtio Service Commission
hss saved the city a snug sum in obtain
ing entrances to stations along the Will
lam street subway. Basing their argu
ments on the reciprocal benefits, the
agents have obtained consents from
property owners to build Ave entrances
without paying for easements or con
struction. Three of these will lead to
the Well street station, which will ex
tend approximately from Wall street to
Cedar street, and two will lead to the
platform of the Fulton street station,
which extends from Ann street to John
street
The commission found It less difficult
to negotiate for entrances to the Wall
street station thsn to the Fulton street
station. The business men In "The
Street" seemed to appreciate more read
ily the vulue of keeping entrances off
the sidewalks and the (benefits that
would accrue from approaches through
and Its workers against the competition their buildings. The Wall street station
of foreign lands which will surely fol- will probably develop Into a "hub of
I0". he .ft?1 w: Why. tramc." the facilities there permitting
SSluS Wv1 ?Uld ,'ne "'8,el,cc of Passengers to go to Flatbush and East
nuLTi .h?:!E?J? y 11 N York, to upper Manhattan and Hast
14 fr r. h" BroM "d t0 Qun ' transfer
moat scandalous barrel of pork that was
ever packed down by a Congress, and
this raid on the Treasury comes at a
time when the Federal revenues are In
sufficient for ordinary Federal expenses
and when the Treasury' deficit grows
annually. The New York Sun quotes
an official statemsnt from the Treasury
Department to the effect that nearly
110.000.000 of the proposed $58,000,000
appropriation for public buildings, or
more than one-rourtn oi ne ioim.
needless, unwise and extravagant. That
la about as strongly as a Democratic
Treasury-Department could be axpected
to speak of a Democratic Congress.
Might It not Justly be called criminal?
Trlksar, Ckleage The pork barrel la!
a parochial expression of local selfish
ness which demands service from the
federation and .decline service to It.
It Is an Indication of the "get and not
give" spirit which Is demoralising the
American people and making .then un
fit to exist in competition with hardier
peoples In whose conception Individual
sacrifice la not Inconceivable. The pork
barret represents the depth to which
Americanism has fallen. The nation Is
Santa Claus and the parochial American
wants to steal something out of his pack.
The answer to the pork barrel ought to
be a law for military conscription.
Robert I.. O'Brles, editor Herald, Bos
tos The pork barrel appropriation bill
now pending Is an outrageous misappli
cation of public funds. Some time the
neonle will realise that, though borne In
Indirect taxation, these loads find ulti
mate lodgment on the backs of the
millions, and are then .known -as "the
high cost of living."' ,To a Very large ex
tent this is the high cost of being gov
erned, and It is a cost due to the folly
and extravagance of our lawmakers.
North Ass ericas. Pkltaaelshla All
pork barrel legislation Is vicious. South
ern pork barrels under the present Ad
ministration are Just as vicious as the
Northern pork barrels which have been
a feature of Republican Congresses for
so, many years. The pork barrel 'must
go If this nation is ever to nave euit.cm
national government All appropriations
should be made on an absolutely scien
tific basis.
Opposed to All Pork."
Jnarsal. Mlaaeseollt The Journal's
objection to the proposed pork barrel
legislation does not. rest on me iuci
the South Is the beneficiary. It probably
Is natural under the circumstances that
if legislation or this character is to oe
permitted the South should gather the
bulk of the spoils. And while the total
amount of money Involved Is awe Inspir
ing and while sectional lines are umwu
closer than under itepuoncan con
gresses, nevertheless the North and
West In protesting would hardly come
Into courts with clean nanas.
The Journal Is opposed toipork legis
lation whoever! the beneficiary. The rem
edy for Congressional pork Is the educa
tion of the public on the question. When
constituents learn mat ivs oniy pwr
Congressman who wilt want to waste
the.pub.llo money to atrengthen his own(
hold on his district there will be some
hope of reform.
rhrBii. ftaa Fraaclseo The Chron
icle does not share the view iriai
all Improvements maae ouuiae u
Tork' pity and State should be put In the
nnrb" barrel category. Its distance from
.. . . . . .1 ...... 1.
the national capnsi
Ky., with 5JT Inhabitants. Is at stake?
Do not the Northerners pay nine-tenths
of the bills, anyway? -
Aatl-Pork Remedy.
SsrlSfS.ua t'slos If President Wll
Von will make It plainly understood that
no such pork barrel measure will have
his signature appended to It, the battle
for economy will be greatly advantaged.
In addition, the proposal of Congress-'
man Frear that nil, Items In this con
nection be left to ft rtimmltt,. rnmnnrf
of the Secretary ok the. Treasury, the
Postmaster-Qeneral andMhc Attorney-
Oeneral, for them to Investigate and re
port on, commends Itself aa a promising
means of shelving the log rolling
methods that havo become a reproach
and scandal to the nation.
Bepsblless. VTaterbary. Cose. Con
gress seems to think the nation will
stand for anything In the way of pork
bsrrel legislation. But Congress Is mis
taken. It Is not a good year for pork.
The nation' Is not so blinded bv pros
perity that It will fall to see ami resent
gross extravagance In Federal appropriations.
Dally Pn.l, llnaitoa. Texas Sena
BARS U.S. GOLD
TO ARGENTINA
England Orders Banks to
Eeceive No More From
New York.
FEABS TIGHT MABKET
Big Shipments Cause Great
Britain to Take Drastic -Action.
Wall Street entrances
The Wall street station will be
entered by way of 48 Wall street, on the
east side of William street, consent hi v.
Ing been obtained from the Bank of
New York. The commission would also
line an entrance throuch 44 or 46 Wall
street, on the west side, but has not yet
obtained consent. The Bsnk of America
owns this building.
From Jacob II. Schlff the cnrnmlulnn
obtained consent to build an entrance on
the Pine street sldelof 52 and E4 William
street and on the opposite corner. Clara
T. A. Collier and others have consented
to an entrance under S3 William street
on the Pine street side. There Is to be
a double stairway on the southeast cor
ner of Pine and William streets In the
Kuhn, Ioeb Building. Negotiations are
nlso under way for an entrance through
the Pine street side of GS William street
on the northeast corner, which lstwned
by the George S. Howdln estate. It Is
likely consent will be obtained. On the
northwest the commission had to go
back a short distance from the corner
because of the narrowness of the corner
building and It Is now negotiating for
consent throun-h 49 ntll 44 1ln titrrrt
tors representing, the great. Northwest which Is owned by Mary A. Hoyt. who. It
In Washington have combined In an Is understood. Is favorably Inclined,
effort to defeat the flood control legists-'
tlon which bus received the sanction of Pulton Street Entraaees.
the lower hnilBA nf fnn.nu Th.
latlon has In view flood. ron. At the south end of the Fulton street I
trol by the building of levees a system ,ullon consent has been obtained from
which serves u local need at the expense! ,lle No .10 w"la'n Street Corporation
of menacing property, navigation and t" establish an entrance nt Tl John
life in the lower reaches of the streams. "Ireet. which Is to be about 20 feet wide
It Is at best a shortsighted policy amI wl" P" under the giound floor of
which should not receive the support of the building nt 116 William street to the
a Government which Is able to build now station. This. It Is believed, will be one
for all time. We in Texan have tried of the finest entrances along the route.
much the same methods of flood control, 1 An unsuccessful attempt was made to
and It must he conressed by their most
ardent advocates that those methods
have not met with success. The time is
almost here when the United States will
cease to play with Its flood problem
after the manner of a baby boy with
soap bubbles.
Not a Sectional Sport.
The Sun. Baltimore Pork chasing Is
not a sectional sport. Northern and
Western Republicans havo proved them
selves quite as fond of It and as expert
In It as Southern Democrats. The cry
of sectionalism distracts from the real
Issue, but the thing Itself Is disgraceful
l beyond words, and all haters of graft
The new British Cabinet took Its first
step yesterday to solve Great Britain's
foreign financial problems. In a state
ment Issued to bankers by A, Bonar
Law, the new Chancellor Of the Ex
chequer, In conjunction with officials of
the Bank of Engtand, all banks In Ar
gentina with English capital and all
agencies or branches of London banks
were ordered to receive no more gold
from the United States.
The move was taken with a view of
stopping. If possible, all shipments of
gold from the United States to Argen
tina, which recently have mounted to a
high figure. Irt doing this the new
Chancellor of (ho Exchequer hopes to
save O rest Britain the embarrassment of
high money rates In New York, which
might result If shipments of the precious
metal continued on a large scale by this
country to Argentina.
It was taken for granted In banking
circles that similar steps would be taken
In regard to other foreign countries to
which the United States recently has
been shipping gold. The Inference was
also taken that the British Government
considered the New York money market
at present the most Important In the
world, and that It would prefer to have
the United States keep the enormous
amount of cold which It has shipped
here since the beginning of the war
rather than have the metal shipped to
other foreign countries where the British
Government has but little concern In the
money markets.
2.1,000,000 to Arsteatlna.
Recently more than $25,000,000 has
been shipped by local bankers to Argen
tina, where the balance of trade has
turned sharply against this country.
More recently sterling exchange on Ar
aentlna has dropped to a discount of
more than 5 per cent, from parity, while
sterling In New York In the last few
months has never been at a discount of
more than 2 per cent.
England being a heavy purchaser of
Argentina's raw materials, the South
American republic took advantage of. the
heavy discount of sterling exchange in
Argentina by selling her sterling bills In
the New York market at a profit. This,
In turn, has caused a steady drain on the
gold supply of this country, and, while
not serious at an, bankers believe Great
Britain foresaw tho fact that other coun
tries where sterling exchange is at
heavy discount might cash their bills In
the New York market Instead of London.
Such a turn In the situation. It Is be
llcved in banking circles, might result
In a movement of gold of considerable
proportions out of this country, and
might force England to make heavier
cold shipments to the New York mar
ket In order to prevent high money rates.
WILSON PLANS TO SAVE
HIS FACE ON PEACE STEP;
SWEDEN'S ACT IS A JAR
KAISER BEATEN,
DECLARES CZAR
Bussian Emperor Tells His
Army Peace Proffer Is
Sign of Defeat.
BRITISH SEE NO
VISION OF PEACE
Official Circles Say Germany
Must First Advance an
Idea of Terms.
Pxtroorap, via London, Dec. 27. In
an order Issued to all the units of the
Russian army, dated December 25, the
Czar, referring to Germany's proffer of
peace, asserted that the proffer was
made because Germany feels that her
complete defeat is near. He added that
the time for peace has not yet arrived
and that the enemy's strength la ap
parently waning while that of Russia
and her allies Is continually growing.
The Emperor's order says:
'Germany Is feeling that her complete
defeat Is near, and near also Is the hour
of retribution for all her wrongdoings
and violations of the moral law. As In
the time of her strength she declared
war, so now feeling her weakness sho
offers to enter upon peaoe negotiations,
desiring to complete such negotiations
before her military strength is ex
hausted.
Creates False Impression.
"At the same time she is creating a
false Impression about the strength of
her army by utilizing her temporary suc
cess over the Rumanians, who lack ex
perience in the conduct of modern war
fare." ,
Arguing that the Allies are entitled to
choose a favorable hour for peace negoti
ations. Just us Germany chose a favor
able hour for declaring war, the order
says :
"This time has not yet arrived. The
enemy has not been nrlven out of the
provinces he has occupied. Russia's at
tainment of the tasks created by tho
war regarding Constantinople and the
Dardanelles, as well as the creation of
a free Poland from all three of her now
IncotnpletoPtrlbal districts has not ye't
been guaranteed.
To conclude peace at this moment
would mean failure to utilize the frulu
of the untold trials of the heroic Russian
troops and fleet. These trials and .hu
still more sacred memory of those noble
sons of Russia who have fallen on the
battle field do not permit any thought of
pete until final victory over her
enemies.
London, Dec. 27. It is not believed In
official circles here that there exists any
possibility of assembling a peace confer
ence, ns proposed In the German reply to
President Wilson's noto, unless Germany
Is willing to make suggestions In ad
vnnce regarding her Ideas of the terms
of peace.
England and France have fully agreed
upon the terms of the reply to be made
to the peace proposals; of the Teutonic
Powers, It was learned at the Foreign
Office to-day. It la hoped here that the
answer may be despatched by the end of
this week, but other nations of the En
tente, although agreed In principle, may
require verbal alterations, which would
necessitate further delay,
It Is expected that once this reply
has been forwarded the response to
President Wilson's note will follow very
shortly.
Russia's reply to the German peace
proposals was telegraphed Monday to
the French Government, says a Reuter
desiAtch from Petrograd.
The Allies' answer to the Central
Powers has been prepared In Paris and
Is now the subject of discussion between
the various Ministers. It Is understood
hero that the reply does not give spe
cific terms, but refers generally to the
objects of the Allies.
The reason for not stating the specific
terms Is said here to be that the terms
of the Allies largely depend upon tho
extent of tho military victory which
President Realizes U. &
Prestige Hangs on Sin
gle Thread
CONSULTS LANSING
ON NEW PROCEDURE
Gerard and Berlin Foreign
Office Exchange Views
on Notes.
BERNSTORFF SEES
COMPLETE HARMONY
Embassy Outlines the Pari
Neutrals Will Take in
Conference.
Washi.noto.v, Dec. 27. President
WJUon and Secretary Lansing con
forred at the Wlilto Houso to-day over
the fato of tho American peace note.
Tho President has not given up tope.
But ho is understood to reallzo that th
situation la far from encouraging and N
that tho potentlul Influence of tha
United States as a peaco factor now
hatiRM by a single thread.
Tho conference with Mr. Lansing la
described as the first of determined ef
fort which tho President will make to
savo American prestige at foreign
they confidently expect, and that any ' capitals and If posslblo persuade th
Entente that It Is a mistake to regard
the American notes as inspired by th
German peace proposal.
Asj an Indication of how carefully
statement of terms now would be upon
tho existing military and territorial situ
ation which the German Imperial Chan
cellor, Dr. Von Itcthmaiin-IIollwec,
claimed was based on u German victory.
Therefore it Is held that Germanv is In i
a position to state her terms, whereas Secretary Lansing Is proceeding In tha
the Entente terms becomo definite when i matter at this critical stage It la said
military successes have been achieved. I tfaat purp0(H.,y refnUned from
reoding-the unofficial text of tha Oar
man reply to the President's note. He
fears there .may be some slight dls-
obtain consent for an entrance through
the Fulton street side of 144 and 146
Wllllnni street and negotiations for an
other entrance under 140 William street
were halted by the recent death of 8. J.
Zabrlskle, the owner. The commission's
agents are now negotiating for consent
to an entrance on Ann street under the
building at 148 to 1S4 William street,
owned by the Charles F. Noyes Com
pany. It Is considered likely this con
sent will be obtained.
Tha construction of the subway Is well
advanced. It is estimated to be from
S5 to 95 per cent, completed and In
some rirt ready for track Installation.
Operation may begin within a year.
Kngiish Remittance ilun, Eat
ins; Charity Jlcal in Al
bany, Gets Big Fortune.
and extravagance should unite to arouse
public sentiment agal.Vst It. I pCWfVff PCC AT MNNFR
Welding Kiss. Chairman of the Execu- """''
ttve Committee of the Chamber of Com- nrccrDT IC fffA aaa
merer This Is not a time for large ex-' UMOHSXM SO sUtPtfVVV
penditures, particularly on small Inter
ests. If money Is to be spent It thould
be on the largo ports where the devel
opment will most largely benefit the en
tire country. For Instance, while large
sums have been voted for tho, "Improve
ment" of creeks and bayous In the South
,wn have been unable so far to get the
money necessary to develop the port of
New York . In a way which most ef
fectively will attract world trade.
We want the East River deepened
so that any ships can come In from the
Hound, so battleships can enter. We
want the Hudson deepened off Fortieth
street so that large ships can dock there.
It Is hard to make the little communities
understand that when they do anything
for a port tike New York they are bene
fiting themselves and the entire coun
try, and to persuade them that we are
not trying to get these appropriations
through greed; These little local Im
provements have only a local value.
I
WANTS 8U1WAY FBE8HE5ED.
Havea Rasoraea nunu
Wlaaows la Cars Oaaaed.
commissioner of Health Haven Emer
son sent yesterday a request to' Frank
Hedley, president of the Interborough,
asking that the windows of all subway
car be kept open, '
In this way. Commission fcmerson be
lieves, the "fetid air surcnargea wnn
Infectloua Bacteria wmvi. v
iVl! Vh. ...hW.v trains will be diluted,
and the travelling public will be some
what prottCieo against um
now lOOge in unu
Commissioner c,mrnn mim
In winter the public la o warmly clad
as not to mind, trie cold this will cause,
and that the Open windows will benefit
greatly tha health of the city. While
be makss hla suggestion as a request, his
ton 1 mandatory.
Chart IV. Oat ta Crawaed.
Londok, Dec. J 7. A Vienna, despatch
forwarded by way of Amsterdam says
that Kmperor Charles and Empress Zlta
c Austria toft' the Austrian capital to
isiiirnrrr '-n
MISS ASaUITH NOT TO WED.
Forsser Premier Deales Report His
Daaa;hrr la Rat-aged.
London, Dec. 27. Former Premier
Asqulth Issued a statement to-night de
nying that his daughter Elizabeth Is
engaged to be married.
Fear Utah .Money Itatra.
England also fears, local bankers say,
that high money rates In New York
might result in tho withdrawing from
London of some of the large balances
held there by large American banks.
Recently more than $50,000,000 was
withdrawn from London during tho
flurry In call money rates. Especial
significance was attached to the new
move by Great llrltaln because of the
negotiations for the new loan In the
United States.
The new ruling became effective at
once. Several local bankers.who havo
een making shipments of gold to Argen
tina, were Informed yesterday that fur
ther shipments would have to be mude
to other Argentine hanks those in
which Great llrltaln In not Interested.
Despite the new ruling by Great llrltaln
local bankers htllevo that 150,000,000
more of gold will lie shipped to Argen
tina In order to stabilize exchange rates.
It was also learned yesterday that
Argentina has transferred between 112,-
000.000 and 113,000,000 held In London
to New York banks. This Is part of the
conversion fund against which tho Ar
gentine Government Issues paper money
In Argentina. It was paid to the l.on-
don Legation instead of being shipped
to Argentina liecauso of tho war risk.
Similar amounts are held In several
other European countries.
Negotiations ate understood to bo un
der way between Argentine representa
tives! and the Ilrlttsh Government for
loaning this money to Great Britain.
In this wuy, bankers believe, Great llrlt
aln will be able to correct the exchange
situation In Argentina to some extent, an
Several London newspapers reported
Tuesday morning the engagement of
Miss Asqulth to Hugh S. Olbson, first
secretary of the American Embassy In
London. A despatch from Dublin a
week ago to-day said It was reported
that the engagement would be announced
shortly. Miss Asqulth and Mr. Gibson
were then visiting at the Vice-regal
Lodge In Dublin.
Miss Asqulth Is the youngest daughter
of the former Premier, being not yet
twenty-one years old. She has shown
talent as an amateur actress, especially
In war benefit performances. Mr. Gib
son was first secretary In Belgium when
the war started.
HKABOABD TLA. UMITRD, lit . M.
Cam. Jan. 1 sr. Palm Beach, , M.
"U".:,' A- l('l.,aJn.srnv 1 nrl- Quickest
to Bslleslr sad t. Pstsraburg. Inq.
bMie Air Lias r tltl aVdway. iiti.
Albany, Dec, 27. While he, his wife
and his five children were eating charity
Christmas dinners, William Skinner,
resident of a basement In the slums of
Albany, received a letter from England
notifying him that a fortuno of 15O,000
has been left to him by his father, a
prominent English barrister who recently
died.
Skinner was the business fullure of
the family and finally he was sent over
here as a remittance man. Some weeks
ago Dr. Crelghton R, Storey, a local
clergyman who devotes his time to 'the
relief of the poor, heard from neighbors
that Skinner s six children were without
food or adequato clothing. Dr. Storey
Investigated and the three older children
were sent to the Humane Society, while
philanthropists did what they could for
Skinner, his wife and the two younger
children.
On Christmas Day tire three older chil
dren shared in the turkey dinner pro
vided by the Humane Society, while the
charity committee of the Klwanis Club
furnished turkey and "trlmmln's" for
the family left at home. They were
eatln.T this when the letter arrived.
Skinner will get 1760 a year for s'x
years under his father's will and then
will get all the Income from the 1150,000.
His children will divide the income after
his death.
Skinner has a brother who Is a lieu
tenant In the English army and has
distinguished himself at the front
Caaal Taar Slalca Faar Drowa.
Panama, Dec. 27.' The canal tug Re
liance, formerly the Scully of New York,
sank off the Colon breakwater In a heavy
sea to-day, The tug's master, Peter
Evans of Ban Francisco, and three
negroes were drowned.
s ABB YOU BUM DOWN
Dewey's Port Wine a Olive Oil will build
you up.
i ni
well as prevent the drawing on the
American gold supply.
Great llrltaln shipped to the local
Assay Office yesterday for tho account
of J. P. Morgan & Co. (8,000,000 of the
precious metal. A shipment of (4,600,000
was also made to the Philadelphia Mint
for the account of the Morgun firm. This
brings- the gold Importations Into this
country slnco January 1 up to (039,-300,000.
Defiance of Geriuauy.
"Who dares to think that he who
brought about war shall have It In his
iwwer to conclude the war at any time
he likes?"
In conclusion the Emperor, expresslrg
confidence that no Russian soldier would
desire peace until the enemy had been
expelled from Russian soil and had
irtvpn enarantees ta nrevent a nossible
repetition of a treacherous attack, raystl
"Iet us be Arm In the certainty or our
victory and tho All Highest will bless
our standards and will cover mem
afreh with glory and give us peace
worthy of your heroic deeds, my glorious
troops a peace for which future genera
tions will bless your memory, which will
be sacred to them."
Mees "Xentrat Leagse" for Peace.
The Bourse Gazette, which expresses
the hellef that the suggestion of Presi
dent Wilson was not a casuol oct of the
American Government, but tho lesult of
organized efforts of tho neutral Powers,
which are already equivalent io a neu
tril lracue with a united aim, says:
"The picture Is now quite changed.
The affair Is taking a serious turn. The
union of neutral Governments In an ef
fort to secure a genoral and lasting
peace opens up quite a new combination
of world Interests, and the part p!aed
by tho neutrals will have a tendoney to
lay the basis for a stable world peace."
This newsnauer concludes, however.
that peace cannot bo secured "by the
neutrals and their typewriters." but It
must arise out of tho sacrifices and
labors of the fighting notions.
"All the neutrals together." nays the
Bourse Gazette, "cannot euarantee a
world peace, because they aro not mili
tary Powers, and when the Germans
again show their teeth they will lie able
to add nothing by good wishes anil type
writing to convince German psychology."
VIENNA HAILS WILSON
AS ALLY OF TEUTONS
Comment of British Press,
The promptncfis of the German Gov
ernment's reply to President Wilson's
note Is characterized by tho evening crcpancy between the text as reported
many's eagerness to bring tho war to an b ""-"less despatches and tne official
end. text, which Is expected hourly.
The Standard says: "It would be a Mr. i.nn.'nn- nm.iima ,v,.
SulrU CSrwohue.dbr.Pmo?. I""""'0"- "' ' -oun of
fatal to wusto time over them. We
trust the Government will give Presi
dent Wilson a perfectly courteous but
also a definite reply and then get on
with the war ns energetically as possi
ble."
The Evening ."for says: "Germany has
replied In hot haste. She Is working
the Wilson note for all It Is worth. She
Is trying; to make peace by wireless.
The contrast between her panting pre
cipitancy and the Allies' leisurely
languor Is great. There Is
Brave, urgent need for cool wisdom
and bold leadership In the circumstances.
We note with alarm the gronlng dis
position In certain qunrters to make
bad blood between the Ilrltlsh and
American people. That H playing the
German game and must be stopped
dead. There must bo no mercy for
lunatics who are ready to poison Anglo
American relationships. Init us make n
stand against the colossal Ineptitude of
misrepresenting and "misunderstanding
President Wilson's note."
"Maladroit Diplomacy."
The Poll Mall Gazette says : "Germany
has not been slow to seise the ndvnn.
tages given her by President Wilson's
maladroit diplomacy. It would be a real
triumph for Germany to have herself
ri-cugnizea as tne wirepuller of the
Power whoso subjects her sub
drowned with Impunity and which lec
tured her In the name of nil the nrdln.il
virtues, n would teach the world that
ny jetting tile Americans do tho talking
Germany understands how to get her
own way eventually tn tho sphero of
practical pontics.
I no studied mnart al tv nf Hie
American note KiippllcH Germany with a
coat of whitewash of which she was
badly In need. Germany proposes an
Immediate conference of belligerents,
which appears to her to be the most
promising way of promoting a fissure In
thn Entente. The Allies have only one
IK1SMIML- IllUlUUP io inis
F. W. WHITRIDOE UNDER KNIFE
ll.es at your dsalor or 111 Vuiinn
uu Bti., N, X. Phone 10(1 Cort,
Head of .'Id Avr. Railroad Oper
ated On for Appendicitis.
Frederick W, W'hltrldge, president of
tlie Thlid Avcnuo Railroad Company,
was operated on late last night for up-
pendicltls at the New lorlt Hospital
after he had been hurriedly removed
from his home nt 16 East Eleventh
Ftreet earlier In the evening,
Mr. Whltrldge, who Is 63 years old.
had been 111 for the past week and
physicians wero watching him carefully.
It becamo apparent u rew days ago
that an operation would-be necessary
and one was planned for a day or so
hence. His condition became suddenly
critical yesterday and arrangements
were made for his reception at the hos
pital In haste. Hla wife and Bon went
with him. The operation was per
formed by Dr. Charles Gibson, who said
later that It appeared to have been successful.
"Xcuc Frcio Trcsse" Says En
tente Cannot Now Refuse
German rroffer.
Dayton. O., Papers Raise Prices.
Datton, Ohio, Dec. 27. Increase In
the cost of white paper and other things
entering Into the making or a news
paper are given as the cause of In
crease In price to-day of the Daily Newt,
the Evening Herald and the Morning
Journal to two cents a copy,
OBBAT BKAB SPBING WATEB.
Me. the esse of els glass stoppered bottles,
At, f
!.onpon. Doc. 58 (Thursday). A Reu
ter despajh from Vienna by way of
Amsterdam quotes some of the Austrian
papers regarding the peace proposals.
Commenting on Austria's reply to Presi
dent Wilson, the Neuo Frele Prrssr saya :
"By our reply President Wilsons pol
Icy Is at once allied with our own. Tho
Entente can refuse nothing to the Cen
tral Powers which they would not also
refuse to President Wilson. The Entente
no longer faces us alone, but also Amer
lea, with whom we aro In full harmony."
The TJrlcanpoaf says :
"Our proposal gives the Entente a fa
vorable opportunity even at the last mo
ment honorably to turn from the crlmo
of war to the reconstruction of civiliza
tion. Moreover, the fuct that President
Wilson sent his note almost slmulta
neously with ours shows that he also
considers any fundamental change In the
war situation impossible."
The Aroeifer Zeituna says;
'The reply of the Central Powers to
President Wilson Is Inspired by the
same high Idea aa their first peace offer.
Conscious of their victories In Rumania,
they go their way undisturbed by
speeches or writings In which the force
that failed on the battlefields seeks to
assert Itself In phrases,"
official documents remain with him even
after the documents themselves are re
ceived, and when there Is any alight
variance In phraseology It often proves
difficult to dissociate the official from
the unofficial versions.
Statement by Ilrrnatorff.
Count von Hernstorff. the German Am
bassador, returning unexpectedly to
night from New YorK, authorized the
following statement:
"I regard the noto of my Government
as constituting an acceptance of every
thing suggested by President Wilson In
his note to the belligerent nations of
Europe."
It was mndo clear at the embassy that
Germany stands ready to make known
her terms on the first day of any con
ference that may be held. Tho German
policy, upon which the reply to Resi
dent WIIon's communlnitlon Is baaed,
was outlined ns follows :
Germany feels that the conference
suggested by It firs: should be composed
of delegates from tho belligerent coun
tries whoe duty it would bo to settle
territorial terms. Once theso terms are
agreed upon representatives of the neu
trals should be called In to participate
In consideration of tho questions of
guarantees for the future. In which neu
trals aro as vltzilly concerned as bel
ligerents. These guarantees. In the German
view, necessarily would have to do with
tho freedom of tho seas, limited dis
armament, formation of a world league
of nations to enforce peace and ths
establishment of an International court
of arbitration, Germany is said to con
sider that neutral nations can have no
interest of their own In terms such as
those relating to territory.
Action by Snellen.
Tho new deelpmcnt in the dlplo-
will hold no rturnwlnn with , .." '"' " u inn nero to-uay was a dee-
President Wilson 00 To-day.
Washington, Dec. 27. President WIN
son will celebrate his sixtieth birthday
to-morrow, , Congratulations began ar
riving to-day at th Whit House, lie
Intends to work aa usual.
punished criminal or with n Power
whose most solemn engagements nrn
mere scraps of paper. If Mr. Wilson's
reul object was to elicit a plain stole
ment of the alms and terms of both
sides. Berlin's answer shows that ho
failed.
"It did not require a note to procure
a plain statement of the allied cause.
Upon the German side tho Invitation
meets with summary dismissal. The III
conceived note has been frustrated and
the most dignified courso now would bo
Its frank withdrawal,"
Santonins "Prise of Victory."
The ll'rstmln.ilrr aazettr says: "For
two or three days the pretense was kept
up that tho American proposals wero an
unfriendly attempt to snatch 'the prize
of victory' from tho German people, but
this clearly Is not ut nil the view of tho
German Government, which sees In It a
welcome opportunity to Improve tho oc
casion and nt the same time push for
ward Its own proposal for stopping the
war. rresineni wiisou is nut to blame
for this, and wo should be very unwise to
rush to the conclusion that lie expected
to receive this answer and was to that
extent playing Into the hands of the
Germans.
"There apparently are many misunder
standings, both here and in America,
about President Wilson's intentions, and
that makes it the more Important that
we should make our own position plain.
We hope therefore that our reply to the
American note will be u careful and
well reasoned statement of the position
as we understand It and not a rtiere
hasty dismissal of the American note
ns If It were ultra vires. The United
States Is deeply concerned In the Euro
pean struggle and has a hundred good
reasons to desire peace, tint It should
not be difficult to make her see that
a mere patched up truce would be as
little to her Interest! aa to ours,"
patch that Sweden had followed Switzer
land In Indorsing the President's pro
posal, inni nweuen nau addressed a
note to the belligerents and had sent
copies to neutrals urging consideration
of terms of peace.
Secretary Lansing said that such a
note had not reached the Stute Depart
ment, and he had no knowledge of Its
having been despatched. The advices
received said the note had already been
delivered in some of the belligerent capi
tals. It may bo said authoritatively that
this Government would have preferred
Indorsement from any of the other coun
tries ut this time. The Swedish court ta
known to be so closely linked to the
court of Herlln that tho Swedlsp note
only gives tho President's endeavors
more than ever a pro-German aspect.
President Wilson Is understood to bo
particularly chagrined over tho fact that
his definite statement In the note that
It was not connected with tho proposals
of the Central Powers has been brushed
asldo aa Irrelevant by tho Entente coun
tries. So far no statesman of any of the En
tente countries has taken this assertion
by tho President at Its face value. They
have simply declined to accept It and
have drawn their own conclusions aa to
why the American Government came for
ward with peace suggestions immediately
after the Herlln Foreign Office had mad
the same pica.
Effect of Swiss Statemeat.
In this connection the official state
ment from the Swiss Government has
served to crystallize the Entente Im
pression and to undormlne the effort of
President Wilson to persuade the En
tente that his action was taken Inde
pendently and without consultation
among other Powers.
The Swiss statement says that the
Government of Switzerland feu bejt In
4. Asasmyxxfr:
.AU.ii- fv
