FINANCIAL EDITION
NIGHT
EXTRA
ST4
NIGHT
EXTRA
ibimtut
N
,i'
"vy jmm i rtk rw wrm-nLms
&jkla vii riiiiri
fi rrg- fflsTSJTi TTrti i' -JTi VaSlMasssW JgL- JssW-JH JMi. ,rU, Jik- Jtm
VOL. IIL NO. 90
ENTENTE REPL?
WILL POINT TO
FOE'S 'CRIMES'
Berlin to Get Hint of Peace
Terms in List of
Accusations
,WILL REJECT U. S. MOVE
Statement of Principles to Mark
Rejoinder to President
Wilson's Note
Note Called Warning,
Not Move for Peace
TT IS nuthoritntlvely stated
in
X Washington thnt
INo more notes will bo
written Germany on the
submarino issue.
2 President Wilson's message
to belligerents wan not a
"peace note," but was sent in an ef
fort to forestall what appeared to bo
an impending break with Germany
on tho 6iibmarino issue.
3 ft was sent as a warning,
not as a pence overture.
LONDON. Dec. i.
Dispatch of tho Allies' reply to Germany's
? eeace proposal In Imminent.
Ek information today Indicated that the
v phraseology of the Identical notes to be sent
by all tho Kntenlo nations has virtually
been settled upon
llussla's reply couched In terms agreed
upon by tho Allies Is already en route to
rarls, where It will bo handed to tho Amer
ican Ambassador, with France's note, for
transmission to Berlin some time within the
next few days.
From authoritative sourcos It was learned
the Allied notes would contain:
A rejection of a pcaca bated on Qer-
man-mado plans.
A vigorously worded summary of the
. principles for which the Allies contend
they nre fighting to remove the men
ace of militarism, or might over right,
of tho rule of force over International
it.fr.
Probably the Allies will make mill
Clearer their alma nnd purposes by a recital
of the crimes for which they propose to
hold Germany responsible.
Tho noto, howovcr, will not state spe-
IA..I.1I.. .1... t.mn mm nhlj.h .... A Ulna M.III
1 biHVAIIJ V.tw ..-una uii niiivtt ..." .....v..
,t rnnnt in frille nenro. Such terms must ba
f "T. (nferentlally drawn from tho statement of
no Aims nnu purposes lor wmen mo uio3
are-Cgotlng. -
It will not consent to trie peace confer
ence urged by Germany. It will not admit
the llmellnosa of the German plea, nor of
President Wilson's suggestions.
At the same time theso Allied notes go
"forward to the Central Powers, through
bine dlplomatlo agencies of Spain, Swltxer-
; hnd and America, tho Allies will probably
forward an Identical noto answering Presi
dent Wilson's peace suggestions.
This note la likely to point to tho German
reply nnd elaborate somewhat In meeting
the American Presidents plea for. a state
ment of principles. It will also probably
smphasfzo the Importance to America of
Uie establishment, eventually, of a peace
of such pormnnence as to prevent nil re-
, currence In tho future of another such
world disturbance, according- to author-
' Katlva Information today.
Such a peace, the note will point out.
can only bo achieved by vigorous establish
' mint of the principles for which the Allies
are striving.
Tho Dally Telegraph today asserts that
the Entente notes as approved by all tho
Allies will set forth "In plain words why
the Allies nro fighting and what they are
fighting for."
In view of Washington dispatches. In
timating that President Wilson's note and
Secretary of State Lansing's original state
ment that tho United States was "on tho
erea of war," were based on the belief
of American otllcinldom that German sub
marine warfare would shortly force the
putting Into effect of tho threat of a sev
erance of dlplomatlo relations with Cer'
many, mado In the Sussex note, press and
public comment was noticeably less bitter
today.
Georges Clemenceau, former Premier of
Prance, writes as foIlowB In his paper,
Vltomme Enchains:
lie who wants tb Influence directly
the opinion of men must speak out
clearly. Mr. Wilson's lantern smokes
too much. In England the same Im
pression was produced at first, and It
will be recognized that when a states
man Intends to Influence contemporaries
It Is a grievous misfortune If both
friends and enemies can In good faith.
i mistaken as to his Intentions.
if. Clemenceau concludes by declaring
that the Allies are engaged In a war of self
.defense and that they were In no way re
sponsible lor II- hrirlnnlnr.
In view of the German hope that Russia
could be Induced to make a separate peace,
dispatches from Petrosrad have produced
most satisfactory Impression In London.
The Petrograd correspondent of the Morn
ing Post Intimated that Russia will demand
the unconditional surrender of aermany In
her answer to the Teutonic peace proposals.
A dispatch to tho Dally News from as
Bsva says that a number of Austrian dip
lomats have arrived thers. They were
Ceolloged en fate te. Cotaaa Two
THE WEATHER
FORECAST
For Philadelphia and iflclnf PartlV
vvwiy ana coiaer onipni, teitn
iof ts degrees; Frtdajf o'" W".
moderate wind viottlj northwest.
tKNOTlI OF DAV
Soa tt iM pjn. I UNO soUtes. I: IM
nU.VW.lEK H1VKK TIDE CMANtUS
C'HKijTNVT UTIiKKT
Itlth wsttr 4 -OS m. j H igtv wtr
"K wu IllUn.1 Low vfitw.
4Jll.m.
11 Ait p.m.
TgMPEBATPBE AT BACH MODS
TTT 51 in It i" 131 I I 21 3l 41 !.
F4-5
LOUGHLIN is r.im.Tv
OP F1RST.DEGREE MURDER
Verdict Cnrrlcs Recommendation of
klfe Imprisonment
rniMt.VCiTO.V. .V. J., DM. St-John
JicLoughlln. who was place.! on trlsl Toes
day for the murder of tllchard J. Wyekoff
on February It last, was found guilty of
murder (ft the first degree today. The ver
dict carried with It a reeommendatkm of
ro Imprisonment. MeUughlln appeared
mueh unconcerned and showed no apparent
Jims of emotion when Foremen tleerge
Rngllsh announced the verdict.
A few moments later Judge Thomas W.
Trenchard sentenced Mctushlln In th
New Jersey state Prison for life at hard
labor.
"KING-PIN" DOPE
VENDOR GUILTY
"Dago Ernest" Convicted on
Evidence of Cocaine Quccn
Who Squealed
WORTHY FATHER WEEPS
Emest Purcaro. alias "Dairo Krnit." who
la alleged to have cleared ItS.OOO In six
months ln tho "dope" traffic, wm today
found irullty by a Jury before JiuIko Tbomp
son. In tho United States District Court,
of the accinatlon of havlnR maintained a.
drua; station at ::0H North Juniper street.
Purcaro was comlcted largely on the
testimony of Helen Fisher, a woman ac
complice In hfs druir business, who Is known
to the police as the "Queen of the Dopern."
This woman turned Stale's evidence and
testified that aha sold moro than f 300 worth
of dope dally from tho North Juniper
street address and turned the money over
to Purcaro.
Purcaro Is tho son of a wealthy retired
wine dealer. Joseph Purcaro. of New York.
The elder Purcaro. who has the appearance
of Loins n respectable business man In
Rood circumstances, wept when he heard
the vlrdlct. Ills son, who was dressed as
immaculately as a younR broker, nlso
showed evidence of a nervous shock when
ho hoard the foreman of tho Jury pronounce
tho word KUllty.
Internal re vena o officers said that the
youns man was heavily charged with mor
phine, but It Avas apparent that een the
deadening Influence of the drus failed to
repel entirely the shock of his conviction
Purcaro Is said to be the owner of two
automobiles and several parcels of real es
tate In the "tenderloin."
Internal revenue offlxers exblbltttpa imnki
book-In which thero was a record of deposits
amounting to J000. Purcaro's wife Is said
to bo confined In the ward for the Insane
at the Philadelphia Hospital, n wreck from
tho uso of morphine. The conviction of
Purcaro was hailed by United States DIs
trlct Attorney Kane as the Government's
greatest victory In Its fight ngatnst tho
"dope" traffic In Philadelphia,
Vice squad men testified to havlnR nr
rested twenty-ma or mord-tiddlcts who came
from an alley lending to the North Juniper
street house. Drugs were found In the
possession of all of theso persons.
CHEMUNG CAPTAIN HOME
John Li. Duffy, Bnck in New York, Una
No Official Complaint to Mnka
NEW YORK, Dec. 28. Captain John I
Duffy, of the American steamship Chemung,
which was sunk by a German submarine
on November JftoTf tho Spanish coast, ar
rived homo today on the French liner Ilo
chambeau. lie said he had official com
plaint to mako of tho submarine's action.
A solid shot over his head, ho declared,
caused him to stop. Ho sent the ship's
papers aboard the U-boat. Immediately
afterward all hands were ordered to leao
the ship and she was sunk In two minutes.
Tho rrew embarked In two lifeboats and
the U-boat towed them until tho Spanish
steamship Salvador was sighted
BOY KILLED BY GAS;
FAMILY OVERCOME
Brother, Returning Home, Finds
House Filled With Suffocat
ing Vapor
Qaa killed fourteen-year-old Charles fitle-
fel, of III livers avenue, Cheltenham, this
morning as ho slept His older brothsr.
Fred, was overcome In an attempt to rescue
Charlie's sister, Margaret, eighteen years
void, and the father, Charles Stlefel, Sr.
The boy was pronounced dead, and the
others sent to tho Jewish Hospital, whsre
the father Is Still In an unconscious con
dition. The brother and sister rallied re
markably, and were said to bo out of dan
ger this afternoon.
Tho family used candles before retiring
last night, for what reason no one has' as
v.r been able to ascertain. They went ta
bed at an early hour, but for some reason
gas Jets were left fiQwIn; In two of the
rooms downstairs,
jred came In ear')' h4 warning and
srailled tho esoaplof gas, wblsh by this
time had filled the heus. He ran upstairs
... hi. .i.ter-a bedroom and started ta carry
her out. The gas was getting too much far
him by this tlm, SJ1 just oeiere no reaeaea
.h bottom of the dark stairs be fell with
hU unconscious burden.
Neighbors heard the ran ana, rustuo w
the nous. 4BwUd s. The cold air
from the outside flawed the house and
Inablsd them to carry Fred and his sitter
tTtbe street Dr. It D. Johnsou was W
w. ..i hasty dumosi by hint r-
14 Jo W JTOMUtvata J Chan. t
M
Xo. iiebdirtiuaU-buI-ufc-.
L . . - - - -
REACHES THREESCORE
Prcstilent Wilson wns born nt
Stnunton, Vn., sixty years njto
today. Some reports from Wash
Ington tell of fnco lines nnd rny
hairs, but Doctor Grayson, tho
President's physician, snys Rolf nnd
outdoor cxcrclso havo mndo Mr.
Wilson fit nnd fino nnd ten years
younger.
MEXICAN SOLDIERS
FIRE ON US. GUARD
Clash With Kentucky Detail
Reported in El Paso
Distinct
FILIBUSTERS ON RAIDS
YAs PASO. Tex . Deo. 18. Mexican out
posts lq thfl bed of tho Illo tlrando opened
nro on a patrol ut the Third Kentucky
National Ouard west of in Paso eurly to
day. More than 300 shots were nred across
the Itlo Gran Jo by tho guardsmen after
tho fusillade from tho Mexican side.
, The" entire city and -the mtlltla camps
were aroused by the sound of heavy firing
shortly before 1 n. in. Regular army offi
cers In tho vicinity nt tho time declare
they heard no shot, from the Mexican
side, while others and offlcers of the guard
on tho patrol stato that scattered firing
continued several minutes from tho other
bank.
Captain II W. Clutk. In command of
Cqmpany U Third Kentucky on patrol
duty- above tho Union StVtjoW'told the
first shots were fired nt the 'patrol under
Lieutenant Hale Tho guardsmen dropped
to tho ground and opened fire nt the
spot whero they saw flashes. Another de
tachment ran up and Joined In tho volleys,
shooting at tho flashes of the Mexicans'
Titles.
So far as known there have been no
casualties. Residents on the boulevard a
mllo from the smio of the shooting reported
bullet holes In their houses-
United States authorities havo made a
demand upon the Cnrrama military com
mander at Juares to ascertain whether any
of his men were stationed at the point
where tho shooting occurred or took part
In the skirmish.
KARKDO, Tex., Dec. is. Two parties of
filibusters crossed the border Into Mexico
near this olty early Tuesday morning. It
became known here today. One of the
parties engaged In a running fight with
Carranxa soldiers from the Nuevo Ijvredo
Continued en l'-to Two, Column One
NEW YEAR "WELCOME"
CRASHES TO PAVEMENT
Huge Sign Takes Tumble While
Being Hoisted on City
Hall
Several per!" narrowly iswapwl Injury
when a wawnw.th'n wleoealng tlu new
year fell ea the south aids of City Hall
this afteriJjoa. with a crash that jould be
heard for several blocks.
The slgu whleh weighed iWO pounds,
was fty-wo by thlrty.twa let and was
desolated with' several thousand vari
colored lights.
, svom of workmen were endeavoring
to raise It to a paint ltnn the sitwuJ
and thM flv-ao. whsn tlw ropes parted and
It fell with a loud report.
Fortunately, a reserve pejleeman was on
the spet and prevented passers by from
entering the ball at that potat while the
sign was belse put In plant.
OH bearing of the accident. Chief Mao
LawahHn put A fcros of sleetrtolais to work
nuedlutiy. Tbey are feUowiag the de
sign wbkft he wappssl tor the New
Year's display, and the sign will be In piaee
at tbi proper time. ust as If the accident
bad never occurred.
Faces Jail or Loss of Vote
A sentence of sis month In the county
tall, the loss of hts vou ml hU credibility
as a. wllw! was Impoted on Clifford VY
Smith, thirty-seven jeors, of 10JJ Haddon
avenue, by Judge Boyle today The charge
agalast Smith was perjury Otf November
I when he was arrestsd for not support
but U - father, he testified that he did
not own acjr property. It was later found
Out he avyssd several bouses and A farm.
PHILADELPHIA, THURSDAY, DECEMBEB
HOTEL BLOWN
UP; FOUR DIE IN
CHARRED RUINS
Acetlycne Plants Explode in
Madison Hostelry, Mount
Holly, N. J.
MANY SERIOUSLY INJURED
BuihlitiK Literally Lifted From
Foundation, Then Collapses
From Blast
Four persons were killed ami a score
Injured, severat seriously. In a fire nnd
explosion which demolished the Madison
Hotel, Motlnt Holly, N. J . at It o'clock
this morning Tho fire resulted from the
explosion of two acetylene fan tanks In
tho basement of tho hotel Tho building
was blown to pieces and tho ruins took
flrn immediately. Imprisoning tho victims
and hindering the rescuers.
Twenty-seven persons ure believed to
liavo been In the hotel at the tlmo of tho
explonloiL Of these, tvvent -three have
been accounted for. Firemen nre digging
In tho ruins for the bodies of the missing
Those known to bo dead arc:
IIOIIKIIT HNTDKII. .ntcn j.r oM, son of
ir iioMri onnir. prorrinr".
CIIAIlt.KM OUAY. loMy )trs oM. Urtrn.ler l
tho txiKl
TWO I'StDKNTirtKI) twro who were
itrlnMliiif in tn barroom.
Anions ttxi more rlnulr Injutrd srei
Jltttf ItOtlRHT MNYDHIt. furt-ne. in
prlvtrrn
IIKI.KN K.VTDKII twentr thrni xr oM. tir
iiituentrr
Mltit M. H llt'DWi.V mothrr of tt f-iijtJir
JOHKI'll HAIMfX
Theso four with half a doitii others are
In tho Ilurllngtou County Hospital. Nearby
homes havo been turned Into temporary
hospitals where physicians am treating tho
less seriously Injured,
AID lU'fJIIKD TO TOWN
Fire deportments from Itlverslde. lllver
ton, I'embcrtoii, Mnorestown, Ilordeiitown.
Uurlliigtnn, Delanco and Morchantvlllo re
sponded to tho call for nld. Ily 1 ii'ilock
tho tiro wm under control, but not until
tho hotel was reduced to a smoldering
mass of ruins.'
Mrs Snjder, her mothor. Mrs. Hudson,
and her son and daughter were In their
bedrooms when tho cxpluslon occurred Jo
seph Haines, who Is employed In a gsruge
near tho hotel, dashed Into tho ruins and
dragged out tho three women I In col-
la pied from his buna before he was able
to find Itobert, the son.
Firemen .Jiyard Cliarl(1iwOr.ay,j tHerbar
Continued on rase rJii-n, 1'olumnrtiree
JOHLKSS MAN KNDS LIFE
Despondent und Unemployed Victim
Commits Suicide by Gas
Frank llenkle. twenty-eight years old of
111 Daw sun street. Mannyiink. who has
been living In a lodging house nt 317 Urren
street for several weeks, wrote u note ill
noon today stating that he had ' nothing to
live for" and a few minutes later stuffed
all tho crevices In tho window and under
neath tho door with imper and then, after
turning nn tho gas. lay down on tho bed
In his room and died
Henkle'M body was found by William
lloxer, tho proprietor of thn bouse, after he
detected tho odor of gns Ho railed the
police nnd the body was sent to tho Hahne
mann Hospital to bo pronounced dead. The
man's relatives were notified Henkle. It Is
said, had been out of work and grew
despondent
.Mill Hands Kseape Mnrmyunk Tire
Fire which started in ".io carding room
of the Freeland Manufuctui'lng Company's
mill. Walnut lane and 1-ntirlntoii street.
Mnuayunk, today damaged the building and
rtock to the extent of several thousand dol
lars. Fifteen men and women who were
working In tho room where tho fire s'arted
fled to safety Firemen were greatly ham
pered In their work by the dense smoke
from burning woolens. The mill Is n three
story structure of stone While the origin
IMS not as et been established, It Is bo.
Ilevcd that some foreign subn'ance crrnted
a spark In one of tho carding machines.
Igniting the material
PEACE 'LEAK' CLEAN-UP
DRAWS LAWSON'S FIRE
500,000,000 Mndo on New York
'Change, He Says, on Wilson
Noto Tip
WAaHINOTON, Dec ! Mere than
UO.000,000 was made In Wall street by
those having advance Information on I'reel
dent Wilson's pease note, according to a
telegram received today from Thomas W.
lAwaon by Hepreeentallve Wood, of Indl
ana. The telegram follows:
New J'ork. Dec. S7.
Just read today's New York papers.
You and Chairman Henry unable to
locate me. really I Framed over my
desS la an envelope Inscribed To
Thomas W. J-wson." no other address.
To settle a wsgsr It was mailed In an
Interior town In China ami landed at
my Beaten office In record short lime.
If you and Chairman Henry wleh ta
communicate with ms, toss a post card
from any window In the Capitol ad
dressed Thomss W I-wsn or "P.
VV. U, Beaton." and you will receive
answer .by return malL
Tl9Ti tip f"M " wh ll-yd the
big Washington-Wall street gams and
the bV International publicity game
long before you were old enough to dis
tinguish between a stock exchange and
a cpAgreasteiul hall spend leu tuns
on lasf' 'week and. more on this week's
leak, 'which U HM to Inundate both
Wall sfreet and Washington
There were only sixty-odd mtiUen
hogsheaded from last week's ; this week's
way tun. Into bHUcns,
And this tip too. is meant In the
beet of spirit If it wae actually be
llavced In Washington there) was to be f
a re4l Investigation of last week's leak
there wsdld not be querwn in either
the Ssnate or the House next Mat-
Ceatiaa4 ea tse fwe. Cebwa Oae
28, 191G
Certstsnt,
QUICK
LARRY KYKE SUES DERRY FOR DAMAGES
Stnte Senator-elect T. Lnwienee Eyre, of Wont Chester, today In
stituted n dntnnje suit ngnlnst Willlnm It, Deny, Collector ot the
101 1 of riillatlftlplttit) to recover $60,000 drtmngeti. The sKtlt Is Ue
outgrowth of temttrkft mitite hy Mr. Herry ilurlng; the teeent'eninpAlrrt
In Chester Oottiity, In which he ooupUrt the nnme of 'Mr. Byte rr?t
the enpltol ncnmlM. nt which time -Mr. Eyre vh Superintendent o:
Grounds nud TlulhUliR. nt llnrrihui(r
GOVERNOR FIELDER REFUSES TO RERIEVE ASHBR1UGE
Oovettior l'leldcr, of Now Jersey, thin nftciiioon tefusod to grant
n leprleve to Wllllnut A. Anhbr(d(;c, of Cnuulen, who Is under sen
tence to die In the electric chnlr tome tlmo next week, Aahbrldfto
killed nn nctresn nud Inter killed n Jnllor while trying: to oscnpo froiu
tho Cnmdcu County Jntl.
ICE AND 'FOG
r3rwT'. .- - .-. -
" "Hssssrft'WfetMWWBjjs-liBjjyy'yK Rs5ssHrS8WtKQBSJUBjsjSJSseu f""..'! " 'ei1'
il - V- . e Ai .mr- - .'7HS SaBSSBBtx tj'
FvrX. sr, &!&&. 'Zv5R-&Zri
Sf32WtrV. - J . ..KUAirA'HpiH-
Trnffic on tho Dclavnro wna considerably hamptirod twin by tho per
sistent misty rain which obscured objosts oven close by. The n mount
of ico chokiiifr tho r(vor is uliusunl for this tlmo oC yenr.
IDA TAIUIELL WILL NOT BE
Tho r.vr.Ni.Mi I.mxiuit s utile to stnto
not be ii member of the tariff board to bo
BRITAIN DROPS OPTION ON 2,000,000 TIME FUSES
NEW YOIIIC. ttoe. 28. The Ilrlllsh (iovornment, which Inst full plne'ed n con
tract Willi tho American Locomollvo and WostlnRhoiira Air llrnko Compnnlcs for
1,000.000 tlmo fusoH with an option to purchuso nn mtdltloiml-l'.OOO.OOO ut thn l.nmo
price has decided not to exercise thin option. (Tho decision Is probably duo to thn
known fact that (Iront Hrllnlu now Is In better cumllflnn to supply hor own war
neodH than she vvns Inst full.)
PEACE NOTES BOOST RUSSIAN WAR LOANS
LONDON, Doc. IS. ltussliin wur loun subscriptions havo iucrenseil consider
ably since publication of penco notes, Peliogriul dliipntchoH via tho Wireless Press
announced today. All cooperative socletlei Imvo nubscrlbeil twenty-five per cent
of their nipltal.
GREEK ARMY DEMOBILIZATION GOES ON RAPIDLY
PAHI8, Deo. 28.nemolilllitlon of the firrek nuny In compliance with tho de
mands of (ho Allies Is going on rnplilly, nuvs it dispatch from Athens today. Tioops
that nro allowed (o retain Ihelr arms nro bcin k shifted to tho extreme soullicrit part
of Orccco, tho movemontn bnlnK supervised by Alllotl army elllcors. Thern Is n
noticeable ohaiiKo In tho tone of tho rnynltst prose In Athens, tho dispatch lidded.
DYNAMITERS WRECK NEWSPAPER MAN'S FORMER HOME
OAKLAND, Cnl., Dec. 28. Dytinmllers today wrecked tho houso until n few
dns ngo occupied by Charles T. Huchlson, manager of the Mlnhifj nnd HclentlMo
Press, who fur months lias boon (bo recipient of blackmail letters. The police nnd
postal nutborlllori say tho ox plosion vux (ho work of the gai)K which several wryks
ngo n lipped u unto under tho door of the exoeutlvo munslon nt Hacramontn, demand
lug that (lovoriior Johnson deposit 130,000 In koM coin In n. certain place under
penalty of having his homo blown up. Letters received 'by Huchlson nro almost
Identical und in tho same handwriting us tbut received by the Governor,
. LOOK OUT! 25 "BOMB CIGARS" LOOSE IN THE MAILS
I.OS ANOKI-BS, Dic. 28. Postmasters throughout the United iJlntoa were
notified today by postal authorities to be on the wutch for twenty-live "bomb
cigars" mulled December Si t doffs, Oil. The package containing them nro
tubular n form, tha warning said. Five men, recipients of tho cigars, have been
.sent to hospitals with mutilated faces Nicholas Harris, of Hnn Francisco, delivered
the oigar he receive;! to the pollcu. In the end tbey found n two Inch cap filled With
enough fulminate of mercury to have blown off his head bad ho lighted the cigar.
GUYENEMER BRINGS DOWN 25TII TEUTON PLANE
PABI8, Deo. 88. Sublieutenant Ouyenamer. l-'ronee's premier aviator, has
brought down bis twenty-fifth Clermau aeroplane, today's ptllolal statement Asserted.
The report detailed considerable aerlul activity on the western front, with aerial
bombarding expeditions on llomp liach, Dllllngcn. Ilriey and Hagondanget Two
French dirigibles, It was said, bombarded factories at Neueklrchen.
MANY GERMANS DIE OF STARVATION, SAYS PAPER
IXWIXW. Dec. S8, Dealli from starvation is becoming' common In Germany,
says a dispatch to tho Dally Telegraph from Parle. It quotes a traveler, recently
returned from Germany, to the effect that the-food shortage has reached tna climax
of Its cgrlgusnesa. This traveler declared that lie saw many persons in Oennuny
fall to the street from sheer exhaustion, due to live lack of food.
SYNDICATE TO REOPEN BELLEFONTE STEEL MILLS
WHM.UFQNTH, Pa.. Deo- 38. The Hyde City steel rolling rolWs have bii
acquired by u syndicate of oqplJttllsW haded by Br. C- -. Uennlgof this plage, the
Inventor of the titan metal, and ootUraeters are remodeling the- pbjnt. a, a wt of
approximately J HO. W0. The mills have been closed live years.
i s isssiii ussi-. 1 1 ssa--tsM I'm i .ein.es i'"l"S
5,000,000 FROST DAMAGE TQ CALIFORNIA ORANGES
IX)S ANOELM8. Dec. "8. Frost has daroagad the orange crop of California
more than l..6O0, according to censcrvattva estimates today. OrulwrdUts are
spending IT9.000 nightly for oil for stoves among the trees. Some are employing
yuropoail war methods by running a curtain of Ore a mil long awl driving it
skyward to force bask the descending currents of oold air. 3'he erapgo crop this
year is valued a,t i0,W.M0.
tola. t tns retire '.teats Ceurtst.
k
NEWS
GRIP RIVER
ltPv
n a itfrrss;;
tssaaaciatifiWiWrtiiBwitt wii rv,i wnu
MEMBER OV TAIUEF BOAKD
uutliorltiitlvcly that MIhs Ida 'Parboil will
appointed by President Wilson,
5
S
LINKS BALDWIN
WITH LIQUOR IN
SPEAKERFIGHT
Chester League Calls
Penrose Man Option's
Bitter Foe
ACTIVITY IN HOUSE
TERMED DISORDERLY'
Attempt Mado to Divert
Support of T. Larry Eyro
and Colleagues
ALLEGHENY CAUCUS OFF
Cox, Vnro Cnndidntc, Mnkcs In-
rontls Into Baldwin's
Strength in West
PRICE ONE GENT
llepresenlatlvo lllchard J. Ibvldwln. Pen-rose-McNIchol
candidate for Speaker of the
House, not only voted with the liquor In
terest when tho Isst county local option
measure came up In the House, but hustled
about the room In disorderly fashion and
lined up others aealnst the measure, ac
cording to John H. Cole, secretary of the
Cheiter County No-License League. It Is
nlso charged that Ilnldwln Is now bonds,
man for n liquor dealer nt Chadds Ford.
Actinic In behalf of the league, Colo
today made this statement In n. letter to
T t.nrry Kyre, State fieijator-elect, who "
Is a member of the Ilaldnrln campaign com
mlllee
Tho league has started n campaign to
force Kyre and two of three Hlnto Repre
sentatives to withdraw their support from
Ualdwtn and nre arranging a series of moss
meetings throughout Chester County.
Tho two Hepresmlntlves who were elected
on n local option platform nre Samuel A.
Whltnkrr and Mnrla Holllncswortb,
In addition to asserting that Datdwln
voted with the ll(Uor Interests, the league
charges that ho Is the bondiman tor the
present holder of the liquor license of tha
Chadds l-'ord Hotel.
CHAIlOreS -AOA1N8T BALDWIN
Tho tetter to Kyre, among other thine,
says-
Kvery enemy of the liquor trafllo
knows that Ualdvvln Is anulntt county
local option On the day that the last
county local option measure mot Its v
Waterloo In tho bouse. Charles 4
Huston, president of tho league, antP
the writer wore present Kt close' range
and witnessed Ilaldwin vote with the
liquor Interests nnd noted his unwnr
ranted and disorderly activity In cir
culating around the room to keep other
members of the House In lino against
county local option, it's n matter of
ecord that for tho year 191 nnd con
tinuously before llnldwln Is one of the
two bondsmen for tho present holder of
the liquor license for Chadds Ford Ho
tel. Tho selection of Ilaldwin as
Speaker of the Houso would bo one of
the worst blows that tho causo of tern
pernnce could porslbly receive st this
stago of tho fttht, In Pennsylvania.
Kyro led tho (Ira for tha local option
plank In tho platforiti at (ho convention ol
13H. 'As cl ho has not replied to tha
letter.
CAUCUS CALLKD OFF
The caucus of tho Allegheny County members-elect
nnd Senators-elect to tho Lcglf
lature, which was to have been held at the
end of this week, has be'en abruptly called
off. following tho tumultuous caucus held
yesterday by tho Philadelphia, delegation,
according to word received from Pittsburgh.
Kdwln It. Cox. the Vare-Drumbaugh-Mageo
c.vndldato for Speaker, has made bltf
Inroads Into the Baldwin strength lir Alls
chony slnco Public Service Commissioner
Mageo opened tho fight thero In his behalf,
nnd tho Cox campaign managers now tlalm
fourteen of the twenty-fqur speakership
votes In tho western county
When tho speakership contest opened COX
was sure of pnly three voles In Allegheny
County. Fear that the Inroads hs liss made
In the Ilaldwin strength have been so great
thnt a resolution Indorsing tho Delaware
i-r.imiv i-iiiiiildato tnlaht be rejected alto
gether caused James V. Woodward, a Bald
win supporter and chairman or tna aeiega
Hon, to call off the caucus.
IHVAI. I.KADI-!t8 CLASH
cox received the expected twenty-four
votes In the Philadelphia delegation at y-
tenlnv'a stormy caucus, neiu in tne rooms
of the llepubllcan City Committee, Kiev
enth and Chestnut streets Tho other sev
enteeq members of the delegation to the
House made It plain that they are lined up
solidly for Baldwin, but technically bolted
the caucus by refusing to vote at an. euer
State Senators Vara and JlcNIchol had en
rosed In the hottest factional debate heard
at any llepubllcan Organisation meeting
held here for fifteen or twenty years.
As It was well known that twenty-four
Stats Itenrcaentatlvea would support Cox-
Senator Vara made an attempt to have the
unit ru e bind the minority to vote for nil
candidate. This was successfully oppoeed
bv Mariiehot. -who saw tna only binaini
caucus would be held In Ifarrlsburs
So confident was the Cox camp that talk
was heard of reprisals. The Cox backers
are after the place bold for years by Thomas
II. Uarvln, chief clerk or the House. Frank:
Morrlsen. of Philadelphia, and one of Cox's
workers In IlsrrUbure, is mentioned for
the plsee.
To placate Frederick C Bhrhardt. of
Lackawanna, who says he might bo a, can
didate for Speaker, it was Intimated that
if Jamee I. Woodward of Allegheny, per
sists In backing Baldwin. Cox might nam
the Laajtawanna. member as chairman or
l'euUuu4 ea Vase Klevea. Column four
ANOTHER SKETCH
s By
qUARKES DANA GIBSON
AmeriWs 'greatest portrayer of tHq
foibles of society, will appear in
TOMORROW'S
uimiit0 1& Sedg?t
wrm 4i t 43i jT-4TT4ir
be
-" - AV . "Ill ill"
yyrr
