I - METAL FRIGES'' :v:- : !3h'V 1 j-' . jH
I L- - - jst 3 Snow Tonight or Friday In West Por- (
I ; tlon; Slightly Rising Temperature. ll
I -Fortysixth Y.,r-Ni. 32,, - FEARLESS. INDEPENDENT. PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER, H
I r'CC Cn" OGDEN CfTY, UTAH, THURSDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 28. 1916. '. em., as Seod.c,a.. .tur at . pc.,,,,.. 0d.n. u S
Central Powers Will Submit Broad I
I E Peace Terms to President Wilson I
I Germany Will Not Permit
l Road to Peace Negotiations
I to Be Bloclked by Entente
Washington, Dee. 28.: Germany, it
was made plain here today, -will not
i permit the road to peace negotiations
to bo blocked by a refusal of the en
tente belligerents to enter a, confer
ence -without prior knowledge of her"
terms. It has been forecast that the
entente powers would base a refusal
on such a condition.
The central powers are, reported as
willing to permit a confidential ex
change of broad tentative terms
1 through President Wilson, should it
I become necessary to do so, to bridge
the gap which threatens to prevent a
gathering of peace delegates. There
were broad intimations tdday that a
statement of this position by Ger
many either had been communicated
to the United States government, or
soon would be.
Confidential Statement Coming.
s The official text of Germany's' reply
to President Wilson's note arrlve'd to
day and it was declared that no con
fidential communication from Ambas
sador Gerard accompanied 'it. There
are indications, however, that a con
fidential statement of Germany's' po
sition, if made, would come through
the ambassador. It has been an
nounced in advance, however, that it
would not be made public and it is 1
' likely 'that its receipt even would not
be admitted.
United States Expected, to Aid.
Germany, it was said today, is look
ing to the TJnited States to make ev-
! ery effort to bring about a peace con
: j ferehce and to that end is ready to
; consider any suggestions from " the
president. "
As the case stands now, the Ger-
man government considers it has-met
all the suggestions in the presidents
note and a statement to that effect
has been made by count von iiern
storff, the German ambassador. '
Germany, it is stated authoritative
ly, never has believed that, acting
alone, she would be able to- bring
' : about a conference and now; that the
influence of neutrals has been
brought to bear foronce, the German
officials have taken their view a'siep
further and believe they cannot bo
successful without assistance of, the
United States. They believe that the
United States, in view of its vital in
w terest in the settlement of the war,
, would not be adverse to participating,
because it has been reported'a's desir
ing most of all to Bee the peace termB
make provision for the future secur
itv of the world. Without participa
tion by the United States in that
I phase it is felt the results would be
without effect.
Germany' Attitude Submitted
There were intimations today that
Germany's position on. ail these points
had been conveyed by Foreign Min
ister Zlmmermann to Ambassador
that Germany's terms-were probably
. conveyed, in the "highest 'confidence,
for the Information of President
Wilson.
It was said today that Qermany',b,ad
no intention of asking the 'entente to
make public its terms, and at the
same time would not publicly divulge
her own under any consideration.
The view expressed in German cir
cles here is that the Teutonic terms
when laid before the entente dele
gates will be such as to, admit of their
acceptance.
Count, von Bernstorff, the German
ambassador, reiterated again , today
that he felt a conference would result
from the present situation and that
he considered it in a light of opti
mism. Germany's position is represented
i as one of willingness to impart hijr
terms in a .confidential, manner first,
if that is absolutely necessary,' to a
conference, but still preferring 'to re
' Berve them for presentation at 'a
round table where they could be dis-,
cussed with more freedom.
I ' Washington, Dec. 28. The official
I ; text of Germany's reply to President
R1 Wilson's peace note was received
II here oarly today. So far , as . was
; known it was unaccompanied .by any
' :, other communication and was said to
' be substantiallv the same as the un
' official text received Tuesday from
t Berlin. '
The official text which' differs
some in phraseology from Ihe unof-
ficial follows:
, "The imperial government has ar
, cepted anl considered in the friendly
spirit which is apparent in the com
munication of the president, the no
ble purpose of the president looking
( to the creation of bases for the foun
I elation of a lasting peace.
"Tho president discloses the
thought which lies next to his heart
I and loaves the choicest way open.
Direct Exchange of View.
"A direct exchange of views ap
pears to the imperial , government as
wj the most suitable way of arriving at
EH tho desired result. The imperial gov
B enment has the honor, therefore, in
fl the sense of its declaration of' tho. lztn
Instant, which offered (he hand for.
Ml pza.ee negotiations, -to'propose speedy
assembly on neutral ground, of dele
gates of the warring states.
'It is also the view of the imperial
government that the great work for
the prevention of future wars can
first be taken only after the "ending
of the present conflict of exhaustion.
The imperial government is readv
when this point has been reached to
cb-operato with the United States in
this sublime task."
German Reply to Swiss.
Berlin, Dec. 27,'via London, Dec. 28,
8:05 a, m. The German reply to tho
Swiss note was handed to the Swiss
minister today. It is on the same lines
as the reply to President Wilson.
The text of the answer of Germany
to the Swiss note reads:
"The imperial government has tak
en note of the fact that the Swiss fed
eral council, as the result of its having
placod itself in communication with
the president of the United States, is
also ready to take action and side with
the "United States toward bringing
about an understanding between the
belligerent nations and toward the es
tablishment of a lasting peace.
Spirit of True Humanity.
"The. spirit of true humanity where
by the steps of the Swiss federal coun
cil are Inspired Is fully appreciated
and. esteemed by the imperial govern
ment. "The Imperial government has in
formed the president of the United
States that a direct exchange of views
seems to it to be the most suitable
means of obtaining the desired result.
Immediate Meeting Proposed.
"Led by the same considerations
which caused Germany on December
12 to offer her hand for peace nego
tiations, the government has proposed
an itrimedinte meeting of all the bellig
erents at a neutral place.
"In agreement with the president of
ment is. of the opinion that the great
work of preventing future wars can
only be taken in hand after the pres
ent world war has terminated. So
soon as that moment comes, they will
Joyfully be ready to co-operate In this
sublime-task.
"If, Switzerland, which, faithful to its
noble traditions in mitigating the suf
ferings caused by the present war, hns
won unending gratitude, will also con
tribute to safeguarding the world's
peace, the German nation and govern
ment will highly welcome such action."
Page Explains Wilson Note.
Rome, via Paris, Dec. 27, 11:30 P. m.
United States Ambassador Page had
a long interview with Baron Sonnino,
the Italian foreign minister today in
regard to President Wilson's note.
Ambassador Page elucidated passages
of-the note which have been the sub
ject of .controversy In the Italian press
and- emphasized tho friendly spirit
which moved the president to address
the', belligerent powers.
oo
Villi HEEDING
FRIEWAPPEAL
Alters' Attitude Toward Amer
icans and Other Foreigners
Found in Mexico.
WORLD WATCHING HIM
Torreon for Headquarters
Has 10,000 Troops and
- - Plans Big Campaign.
El Paso, Texas, Dec. 28. That
Francisco Villa has altered his attitude-
toward Americans and other for
eigners found in Mexico is the belief
of friends of Villa here, who today an
nounced they had appealed to him not
-to kill any more foreigners.
, This appeal was sent Villa during
his occupation of Chihuahua City. The
d6cument, it was said, reached him
after a number of foreigners there
had-been killed, but the fact that no
foreigners were molested after Villas
occupation of Torreon was cited to
show that Villa has heeded the ap
neal. The message to Villa informed
him that the world was watching his
movements and urged guarantees to
non-combatants and the protection of
fn wasPrs3drby Villa partisans hero
that Torreon would be established as.
Villa'fJ provisional headquarters. He
was a& t0 have lncroaaed hIs com'
mahd to 10,000 troops, and.lt was pre
dicted a campaign for tho control of
the entire state of Chihuahua would
bo inaugurated.
. no
ARRESTED FOR THEFT. '
ProvoVDec. 2G.-Sberiff Henry East
rr7sted H. Bergen of Salt Lake hero
?oX on suspicion of having stolen
:afcout160pounds of copper wire.
BITTER COMMENT
ON GERMAN REPLY
i
Paris Newspapers Pronounce
Answer to Wilson Request
a Polite Refusal.
PLAYING TO GAIN TIME
Central Powers' Note to
American President Only a
"Hypocritical Expedient."
Paris, Dec. 28, 5:4o a. ra. The
morning newspapers today are unani
mous in pronouncing the German an
swer to President Wilson's note to
the belligerents a polite refusal to
"Germany's says the Matin, "Inten
tionally reverses the terms of Presi
dent Wilson's note and requests rep
resentatives of the nations at war to
seat themselves at a conference ta
ble and talk at randpm without know
ing what they intend to" say. She
knows the allies will never make j
peace on the terms which sho at pres
ent Is disposed to offer. During tho
period of temporary slackening in '
hostilities she will be able to obtain
fresh supplies, .while, secretly .plani.
ning new military preparations just
as she prepared for mobilization dur
ing the diplomatic conservations of
July, 1914.
"While giving satisfaction to the
United States by a clear explanation
of our duties, it behooves us now
more than ever to keep a close watch
on the movements of the enemy at an
hour when he is attempting to hood
wink us."
Tho Petit Pari si on says:
"The reply of Germany and Austria
Hungary is not a direct loyal answer
to 'ihe American suggestions. It is
only a hypocritical expedient. Presi
dent Wilson asks the belligerents to
state their conditions. The central
powers ignore this and simply offer
a conferenco without any preliminar
ies. That is a trap in which they
very naively thought to catch the allies.
"One understands the haste with I
which they replied without waiting
for the concerted note of the allies,
which it is a pity was not sent earlier.
President Wilson asked for guaran
tees for the maintenance of lasting
peace. Berlin and Vienna postponed
their explanations until later. The
president of the United States can in
no' way declare himself satisfied. As
for the allies their reply to the Wash
ington cabinet is made much easier."
German Maneuver Unmasked.
Stephan Pichon, writing in the
Parisien Journal says:
"The American note regarding the
inspiration of which we are not suffi
ciently enlightened, has at least had
the merits of unmasking a German
maneuver. That is a self-evident
truth which we formulated here from
tho very firsL It is now fully proved
that it is that. It would suffice for
neutrals to ask Germany for the de
tails of the peace she wished to con
clude, to make it impossible for her
to furnish them."
In the Figaro, Alfred Capus says:
Means Bondage for France.
"Germany in her answer to Presi
dent Wilson proposes a meeting of
delegates at a neutral city. That
city, if it was specified, would remain
forever famous as the greatest trap In
history. France, not to speak of our
allies, would come out the vassal of
her adversaries of today and so many
prodigious sacrifices, so much glory
won in marvolous battles would have
only served to make of us a subject
and a fallen people."
Note an Evasion.
The German reply to President Wil
son's note is regarded as an evasion
by the Lausanno Gazette, which says:
"The Berlin government pretends to
welcome. President Wilson's initia
tive, but it really evades answering
the American note as well as the
Swiss one. It suggests a conference
between the bolligprents, a confer
ence held behind closed doors, and
at the conclusion of which each of the
negotiators would be free to boast of
extensive concessions made and ac
cuse his adversary of secret reserva
tions and bad faith. What tho appeal
of Washington and Berne is for is the
Juxtaposition in full daylight of tho
objects of the war but the objects
pursued being evidently contained in
the motives of those who let loose
the war, those motives can not help
jieing made apparent. It is easy to
see what a formidable indictment
they would form and why Berlin and
Vienna insist on discussing peace on
the basis of the war map and refuse
a procedure which would 'throw a full
u
I- ."O r- "
light on the responsibility for the
war."
ANSWER MAKES A
0000 IMPRESSION
General Comment in Germany
. Favors Reply Made to
President Wilson.
SOME ANTI-AMERICAN
Predicted No German Dele
gate Will Be Willing to Sit
With Allied Repre
sentatives. Berlin, Dec. 27, via London, Dec. 2S.
4:30 a. m. Germany's answer to
President Wilson and the promptness
with which it was made, have caused
a good impression generally in the
press. Only the anti-American news
papers show a tendency to dissent
and express the view that interfer
ence of any kind by America is intol
erable. The latter papers find a cer
tain satisfaction in the proposal that
delegates of the belligerents meet on
neutral territory, which is interpreted
as clearly excluding the participation
of neutrals in the conference.
Count von Reventlow, while avoid
ing a direct attack on the German an
swer, assumes that no German dele
gate will be found willing to take a
seat at the same table with English
and French delegates, after the recent
speeches of Premiers Lloyd-George
and Briand or until those speeches
are apologized for. The Taegelischo
Rundschau says that the note emphat
ically rejects the participation of neu
trals in a peace conferenco, which, it
thinks, would unduly prolong negotia
tions, besides disturbing the natural
determining forces. It believes that
the German people will approve tho
proposal in the Gorman note that the
question of a league to enforce peace
be postponed until after a settlement
nf tVio nroaonf 'M'sit- ! ranenne flifif
by pursuing such a course the prob
lem of permanent, world peace can be
dealt with by an assembly in which
all the nations qf the world can take
a share.
Reply a Loyal Acceptance.
Tho disposition or certain Pan-German
newspapers to read an unfavora
ble interpretation into the Austrian
and German replies to President Wil
son's note is not shared in official
circles where the interpretation gen
erally voiced is that the reply is in
principle "a loyal acceptance of Presi
dent Wilson's suggestion promoting
the prospects of peace now and in
the future and an effort in the same
direction as tho original peace pro
posals of the central powers."
The speed with which tho Austro
Germans replied is a further indica
tion, according to a high Gorman dip
lomat, of the ready acceptance nere
of President Wilson's ideas. Tho
Swiss note will bo answered with the
, VV51K on
1 RUSSIANS IN WALLACHIA
r
Czar s Troops Being Rapidly Pushed Back to
, Sereth River in Moldavia Great Success
Scored on Railway North of Buzeu.
Field Marshal von Mackensen is
continuing his sledge hammer blows
upon the Russians in northeastern
Wallachia and is rapidly pushing
them back to the lino of the river
Sereth in Moldavia. He won a vic
tory yesterday and captured an addi
tional 3000 prisoners.
The most recent attack appears to
have scored its greatest succoss in
the region of Himnik-Sarat on the
railway twenty miles northwest of
Buzeu. Tho Teutonic forces have
pushed forward beyond Rimnik-Sarat
The Austro-German forces are advan
cing in the direction of tho important
Rumanian grain and oil storehouse of
Braila, on the Danube.
Across the Danube from Braila,
the German-Bulgarian-Turkish forces
made headway in their attack upon
the Malchin bridgehead where the
last remaining Russian forces in Do
brudja are hanging on to the north
western corner of the province.
On the other war fronts the fight
ing has been of a minor character.
The French on the Somrao front have
been successful in extensive mining
operations. Berlin, in its report on
the western front fighting, announces
tho loss of eight airplanes by tho en
tente. Germany has replied to tho Swiss
peace note in a manner similar to that
of the German reply to President
Wilson's note, reiterating the propos
al for a conferenco of tho belligerents.
same Interest and In the same general
spirit and will convey in addition a
cordial tribute to tho hospitality ex
tended by the Helvetian republic to
invalid war"prisoners.
The diplomat in question said that
as far as what he considered the in
timation in President Wilson's com
munication regarding tho maintenance
of the territorial integrity of the bel
ligerents in an ultimate peace settle
ment is concerned, the answer lay
less with the central powers than with
their adversaries. The latter, he
said, had openly proclaimed as their
goals of war tho detachment of Al-sace-Loraine
from Germany; Gallcia,
Bukowina and the Adriatic produces
from Austria-Hungary; and Constan
inople and Armenia, from Turkey.
As to the prospect that peace will
I result directly from tho present nego
tlations and Interchange of notes,
Swedish Steamer Sunk.
London, Dec. 2S, 11 a. m. Lloyd's
Shipping agency announces that the
Swedish steamer Friga is believed to
have been sunk.
Eight Airplanes Lost.
Berlin, Dec. 28, by wireless to Say
vllle. Eight airplanes were lost by
the entente allies in yesterday's fight
ing on the western front, the war of
fice announces.
The text of the statement reads:
"Western front: Isolated sections
of the Flanders front and the Somme
salient were temporarily under strong
I artillery fire.
"The activity of the aerial forces
was of the liveliest sort. Tho enemy
in aerial engagements, or through the
operations of our defensive aircraft
lost eight airplanes."
French Repulse Germans.
Paris, Doc. 2S. Noon. French
troops last night repulsed small at
tacks near Lechenoy on the Somme
and on the eastern slope of Hill 304
west of tho Mouse in Verdun region,
the war office announced today.
Mines sprung by the French near
Beuvraignes on the Somme front
caused great damage "to tho German
defenses. One of tho explosions pro
duced a crater 120 yards long and 40
yards wide.
The French flying corps yesterday
attacked several blast furnaces and.
steel mills. The airplanes were aid-1
ed in tho attacks by two dirigibles.
there is no marked display of optim
ism in either official or unofficial cir
cles. The example of the Portsmouth
negotiations which ended the Japanese-Russian
war, is, however, some,
times recalled. The diplomat already
quoted expressed tho personal opin
ion that the entente would probable
reject the erman proposal for a con
ference in a neutral country. He said
that if tho proposal was accepted
Switzerland was the most probable
place for the meeting because of Its
central position, telegraphic and ade
as to its neutrality.
Amstordam, via London, Dec. 2S,
S:40 a. m. A Vienna despatch says
that privy councillor Rudolf Selghart,
governor of tho Austrian land credit
bank, has resigned at the request of
Emperor Charles. He is succeeded by
Ritter von Leth.
CAR SHORTAGE! I
BE ACTED UPON I
Railroads Must Show Cause "H
Why Drastic Orders Shall
Not Be Issued. 11
CLAIM NO AUTHORITY H
Representatives Summoned
Before Interstate Commerce
Commission to Discuss
Traffic Congestion.
Washington, Dec. 28. Representa
tives of railroads throughout the coun- '
try today appeared before the inter- jH
state commerce commission to show
cause why th'e commission should not
take into its own hands the car short
age situation, heretofore dealt with by
the roads themselves, and issue dras- '
tic orders to relieve congestion.
The order which the commission ap
parently is preparing to issue, unless
the roads show cause why it should
, not, would require the roads to return
: to connecting lines all foreign cars on
' their tracks after unloading. Hereto- 'H
i fore the railroads have endeavored to ll
' cope with the situation by requiring
I roads in the east where the congestion
! is greater to return to connecting lines
I monthly a larger number of foreign
cars than received.
Rules Are Disregarding.
This requirement is said to have
been largely disregarded by certain
eastern roads, with resultant upset of
the relief plans. While congestion of ifl
I traffic is said to be somewhat less at IH
1 present than recently, the improve- iH
ment In conditions apparently has not ll
! hppri rnnlri ns thp. commission ex- ' .H
pected it would be. '
Claim Commission Has No Authority iH
One of the phases of today's hearing H
was the claim advanced by certain rail- ,
road interests that the commission ap- jH
parently was without authority to is- fl
sue such an order as suggested in to-
day's summons. jJ
George Hodges, secretary of the car jH
service commission created by the
American Railway association, the
first witness, said that it had been fl
agreed that the commission should
have all the authority of the railroad
executives over car distribution. Tho
Grand Trunk, he said, had refused to
be bound by the rules which had Im- jf
posed an increase in the per diem rate
j for rental. He said thirty-seven in- ll
j spectors were out checking up the rail- H
roads. H
BROTHERHOODS I
MAKEPROPOSAL I
Ask Creation of Federal Com
mission to Settle Disputes
Between Roads and
Employes.
SUGGESTION DISCUSSED H
Members With Plenary Pow- ,
ers, Would Sit as Court of '
Official Adjudication. '
New York, Dec. 28. Creation of a jfl
federal commission to decide disputes
between railroads and their employes, I
regardless of whether the United '
Slates supreme court may hold the '
Adamson act constitutional, was the '
suggestion which the chiefs of the four
railway brotherhoods Indicated today
they might place before the conference
committee of railroad managers. fll
Representatives of the two sides H
went into conference here to discuss I
the Adamson legislation and its ef- j
William G. Le, president of tho IH
i Brotherhood of Railway Trainmen, dis- i
cussing tho idea before the conferenco
"I believe, and a number of the rail- j
road managers agree, that the creation
of a federal commission of eight mem- f
bers, four representing the roads and j jH
four the brotherhoods, sitting as a I
court of official adjudication, could sat- j
isfactorily dispose of whatever griev- jH
jances might develop between tho roads fl
and their employes. jH
"The members of such a commission
must be men who understand their
business, but, before becoming mem- , fl
bers, they would be compelled to sever H
all connections previously had with jH
either side. Such a commission should g
have plenary powers, would hold hear- jJ
ings and, after deliberation, would an- j
nounce its decisions,"
According to the brotherhood chiefs,
the roads' representatives have al-
ready considered the idea of such a H
federal commission. Mr. Loo would
not say definitely that discussion to-
day would enter on tho proposal. J
