THE BARKE DAILY' TIMES
I1AKHK, VERMONT, THURSDAY, DKCKMRKR 28. 1910.
PRICK, ONE CENT.
VOL XX NO. 242.
GREAT CRATER
MADE BY MINE
The German Defenses Near
Ueuvreigncs on Somme
Front Damaged
FRENCH AIR FORCE
ATTACKED MILLS
Several Small Attacks
Germans Were Put
Down
by
Paris. Pec. "28. French trooP last
tiiclit renulsed small attacks nwr Leche
noy on the. Somrao iinJ upon the eastern
. - ..... . .. . i l ..
slope of hill 3H wtH OI inn .-unite in vo
Verdun region, the war office unounccd
to-dav.
Mine snrunir bv the French near Peuv-
relgnes on the So in rue front causrd great
damnge to German delcnse. un ex
plosion produced a crater 120 yard long
and 40 yards vide.
The French flying corpa yesterday at
tacked several Want furnaces and ttcel
mill. The airplanes were aided in the
attackt by tvo dirigible.
RUSSIANS BEATEN
IN NEW ATTACK
Berlin Official Statement Tells of Their
I Being Thrust Back on Rumanian
1 Front Patrol Activities on
Russian Front.
Berlin, by wireless. Pec. 28. The de
feat of the Russo-Rumanian forces by
the advancing Teutonic army has been
completed. It is announced officially that
the Russian troops which attempted to
regain the lottt ground were thrust back
and ejected from new positions with
heavy losses. In yesterday's fighting the
Austro-Oerman lorces toon d.uou prison
ers.
Patrol activities on the Russian front
were reported in the section of the state
ment dealing with that area.
HEAVILY SHELLED BY GERMANS.
British Lines North of the Somme and
Near Le Sars.
London, Pee. 28. The British head
quarters in France issued the following
statement at midnight last night:
"Our positions on the right of our line
north of the Somme and near Le Sars,
were heavily shelled by the enemy at
intervals Tuesday night and .Wednesday
morning. Bombardments of the enemy
defenses, and trench mortar emplace
ments were carried out by us with good
results south of Arras, in the neighbor
hood of Hulluch and west of Messines.
"On Tuesday in the course of a number
of fights in the air, a hostile machine
was destroyed and five others were
forced to land in a damaged condition.
Three of our machines are missing."
ENGAGEMENT DENIED.
!
Asquith's Daughter is Not to Marry
Hugh S. Gibson, American.
London, Pec. 28. Former Premier As
quith issued a statement last night de
nying that his daughter, Elizabeth, is
engaged to be married.
Several London newspapers Tuesday
morning reported' the engagement of
Miss Asquith to Hugh S. Gibson, first
secretary of the AmericaiC'embassy in
London.
ALLIES LOST EIGHT AIRPLANES.
During Wednesday's Fighting on West
ern Front.
Berlin, by wireless, Dec 28. Eight air
planes were lost by the entente allies in
yesterday's fighting on the western front,
the war office announces.
CARRANZA'S REPLY
WAS CARRIED TO
WASHINGTON
SAYS SMALL WAS
ABUSIVE TO WIFE
County Solicitor HiU Says lit Ilaa Evi
dence Tbat tha Accused Man Even
Mad a Threat to Kill Her.
(Wpee, X. 11., !. 2H. The case uwn
hick is bad the time's r)iarv that
Frederick L. Small strangled aud hot hit
wife, Florence A. Small, afterwards ar
ranging a fire which atmosi destroyed
the evidence of the rrinie, was outlined
to day to the Jury by County Solicitor
Walter I). II. Hill. (
His summary of the nnwecut in' ma
terial indicated that testimony not pre
viously made public would be brought
out. Threat by Small to kill his wife
and abusive treatment of her would he
related, he eaid. An Insurance Mdicy of
$'.(! ,(HH, obtained by Small as a joint in
strument cotering the liven of both ami
payable to the survivor, was emphasised
as a link in the circumstantial chain.
Wires, spark plnp and alarm clock parts
found in the basement of the cottage
would be the subject of testimony of
witnesses regarding possible ue in con
nection with starting the tire, the solic
itor stated. He told the Juror nlo of
an inventory of the contents of the cot
tage drawn up carefully In minute de
tail and found in a small satchel after
the fire.
The jury yesterday afternoon made the
journey of five miles from the courthouse
to the cottage at Mountain Mew in a
large pung drawn by four horses while
Small and his guards were conveyed in
a milliter sleigh. Automobile carried
the ret of the party, the judge, counsel,
the official stenographer and the news
paper correspondents.
County Solicitor Walter I). H. Hill in
dicated where the doors of the house had
been, the position of a revolver relative
to the spot where the body was found,
the site of Small's workshop in the rear
of the house and the location of neigh
boring cottages.
Sydney F. Stevens, for the defense, di
rected the jurv's attention to a hatchway
door, over a flight of steps leading from
the outside of the house to the cellar and
to a cleat on the inner side which served
as a fastening for the door. Mr. Stevens
pointed out tbat under this cleat, when
it was in a position that would leave the
door unfastened, the paint was scarcely
damaged, while the rest of the door had
been scorched and partly burned away.
It is understood that the defense will
contend that this evidence supports its
theory that in Small's absence a tramp
entered the house, killed Mrs. Small, set
the fire and left by the hatchway door,
leaving it unfastened. The state assorts
that Small after shooting his wife, beat
ing nnd strangling her, went away, leav
ing some device that would start the tire
hours after he had departed.
Returning from the scene of the mur
der the jury's attention was called to the
lonely road through the woods about a
mile in length, from the lake to the main
highway. The jurors were then driven
to the village of Mountain View, where
they boarded a train for Ossipee. They
covered the same route mat ?maii iook.
on Sept. 28, when he left his home and
started for Boston.
Mrs. Small's mother, Mrs. Elizabeth
Curry, of Dorchester, and Miss Norma
Curry, sister of the murdered woman,
arrived in town last night, ready to go
on the stand for the state. With them
at dinner at the hotel were Ex-Police In
spcetor "Andy" Houghton of the Bank
squad, who is with them as escort; also
Alexander W. Clark, policy registrar1 of
the life insurance company in which the
mutual $20,000 policy taken out by Mr.
Small, was written by E. C. Conner. This
policy is expected to figure largely in
the state's case as offering a sufficient
motive for the crime. Also there was
fire insurance on the cottage, in excess
of the actual value of the place.
Tho responses made yesterday by
talesmen would have been exceedingly
pleasing to advocates of the abolish
ment of capital punishment.
AUSTRIA GLAD
TO HAVE PEACE
Official Reply to Switzerland
Tells of Sympathetic
Attitude
TOWARD THE NOTE
THAT WILSON SENT
Switzerland Commended for
Noble and Humane
Disposition'
Berlin, via Imdun, !ec. 28. A Vienna
dispatch says the Austro Hungarian gov
ernment to-day answered the Swiss note
by transmitting a copy of the note lent
to Wilson. The message assured the
Helvetian government that the noble
minded suggestion of President Wilson
met with a thoroughly sympathetic re
ception from Austria-Hungary.
Tlie note added that the Austro-Hun-garian
government regarded the Swiss
action in suporting Wilson as evidence
of a noble and human disoition which
Switzerland since the beginning of the
war has manifested toward all the bel
ligerents. Germany Also Replies to Swtizerland.
Berlin, Per. 28 The German reply was
handed to the Swiss minister to-day.
It is on the tame lines as the reply to
President Wilson.
OFFICIAL REPLY
FROM GERMANY
IS RECEIVED
BANKING SUPREMACY.
Luis Cabrera Would Not Divulge Its
Purport, But It ia Thought to Be
Suggestion for Modification.
Washington, D. G, Pec. 28. Luis Ca
brera, chairman of the Mexican commis
sion, arrived here to-day from New York,
bearing the answer of Carranza to the
demand of the American representatives
that he ratify or repudiate the protocol
signed at Atlantic City.
The character of the reply has not been
revealed, but it is generally believed it
Has Been Established in United States,
Says Comptroller.
Washington, P. C, Pec. 28. Resources
of national banks of the United States,
Comptroller Williams announced last
night, have increased more than $4,000.
000,000 during the last two years and
now aggregate $l."),o20,000,000, exceeding
by about $1,000,0000,000 the combined
total resources of the Bank of England,
the Bank of France, the Bank of Russia,
the German Rcischstag, the Bank ot
Italy, the Bank of Spain, the Bank of
the Netherlands, the Bank of Penmark,
the Swiss National bank, and the Imperi
al Bank of Japn.
In statement based on returns from
the last bank call, November 17, the
comptroller directs attention to the fact
that the increase has been at the rate
of approximately 18 per cent a year dur
ing the last two years as compared with
six per cent a year for the ten-year peri
od from 1904 to 1914, and that the to
tal resources are at present more than
double what they were ten years ago.
"The compilation just completed of
returns for the last bank call," the comp
troller's statement reads, "discloses a con-
So Far as Known It Was Not Accom
panied By Any Other Communica
tion and la the Same as Re
ceived From Berlin,
Tuesday.
Washington, I). C, Pec. 28. The offi
cial text of Germany's reply to Presi
dent Wilson's pence note was received
early to day. As far as known, it was
not accompanied bv anv other communi
cation and it is said to lie substantially
the samo as the uiiofticial text received
Tuesday from Berlin.
In spite of the wide gulf , between the
insistence of the central power for an
immediate peace conference and the fore
cast of a unanimous refusal by the en
tente allies to enter such a conference
without knowing Germany's terms in ad
vance, tho American government be
lieves that the negotiations in progress
are resulting good. It was said -with au
thority that, until the door of peace ac
tually is closed by oni side or the other,
President Wilson will continue to hop
that any discussion will tend to1 hasten
the end of the war.
Count Von Bcrnstorff, the German am
bassador, returning unexpectedly last
night from New York, authorized the
Associated Press to make the following
statement:
"I regard the note of my government
as constituting an acceptance of every
thing suggested by President Wilson in
his note to the belligerent nations of
Europe."
It was made clear at tlie embassy tbat
Germany stands ready to make known
her term on the first day of any con
ference that may be held, and officials
expressed themselves as being greatly
surprised at the view pending in some
quarters here that the Berlin government
had failed to meet the president's sug
gestions by not setting down in the re
ply the terms upon which it was willing
to make peace.
The German diplomats say that rres
ST. ALBANS MAN
HEAD OF POULTRY
BREEDERS' ASSN.
A. B. Wheeler Elected President at the
Annual Meeting Which Waa Held
in Bam Ytitcrday Afternoon.
If you awake at dawn tomorrow
listen carefully for the dying echoes ot
the rail of chanticleer. If you will lit-
ten you will hear the swan song of the
poultry hor and not until IU17 wili
(liiir.li street hear or any other thor
oughfare in Harrt know tin) grand chorus
of tlie rooster and hit dawn greeting kin.
I he eleventh annual show of the er
inont Poultry association cloaca to-night
after the niott successful three-days' ex
hibit in its history. There remain an
opportunity to iusjHvt the fine .honing
of blooded birds at the Church street
gymnasium, as the floor tuperintendent
and hi assistant will lie there to escort
all visitor up and down the aisles and
aisle of feathered champion.
lute in the afternoon of the second
day, the Vermont Poultry Breeder' asso
ciation met at the gymnasium for its
annual buoinnta session. The following
officer were elected: President, A. B.
Wheeler of St. Albans; vice-president, C.
A. Bevoir of St. Albans; secretary, W".
G. Freeman of Bellows Falls; treasur
er, K. If. Ilemcnway of Manchester; ex
acutlve board for two vears, C. L. Curtis
of St. Albans, V. L. Pivoll of Bellow
rails and K. II. Peck of Rutland; execu
tive board for one year, F. F. Gray of
Townshend. P. C. St. Croix of ISellow
Fall and W. Barclay Scott of Barre.
When Secretary Freeman tendered hi
resignation it wu accented and a vote
of thanks was his reward fur his elfi-
iency as a servant of the association in
the past.
The ermont association i the offi
cial branch of the American Poultry as
sociation and a good deal of interest was
manifested in the proceedings, rour new
members were admitted. It was voted
to divert !. to tbe Vermont Poultry
association to be used for prize and a
similar sum was voted the next official
show, wherever it may be held.
From the floor two amendments to
the constitution were offered. One would
empower the president of the Breeders'
a-sociation to appoint tte organizers,
each to receive instructions to turn his
commissions over to the association in
the district to which he Is assigned. The
second proposed amendment contemplates
changing the date of the election ballot
frm Keli. 1 to Aug. 1 Neither proposed
amendment was accepted, as each has to
lie on the table for a year, dust before
adjournment. W. Barclay Scott of Barre j
was elected election commissioner.
Officers of the poultry association were
biisv to-dav in assigning some of the
ribbons awarded by the judges yesterday
afternoon. It was a matter of consider
able remark among poultry men who
have frequented the show hull since the
opening that two ol ine nnesi exninivs
were made by women. Jlrs. uonani
Smith of Barre had n splendid showing
of Buff Orpington and the ribbons they
won entitle her to foremost ran among
the exhibitoi. Jtbother woman exhib
itor was Mrs. E, A. Carey with an attrae-
tive grouping of bronze turkeys, on which
lass she captured all of the prizes.
This forenoon it was announced that
Judge George P. Coffin will give a lec
ture in the court room at city hail this
evening at 7:30 o'clock. Many of the
visiting breeders expressed a uesire to
hear the Freeport, Me., poultry expert,
and the free lecture is expected to attract
many who are only amateurs in the
science of poultry breeding. Judge Cof
fin will have something of interest to tell.
Ladies are especially invited to attend.
Throughout the evening, the Church
street gym. will remain open and visitor
will find that none of the birds have
been removed from the hall.
Remaining awards announced to-day
were as follows: Silver-Penciled Plym
outh Rocks stl. 2d and 3d cockerels and
1st, 2d and 3d pullets, ,J. H. Spraguo f
Barre.
Pit Games 1st, 2d, 3d, 4th and Sth
cocks snd best pen to Joseph Parker; 1st
hen. S. N. Parker.
Black Orpington 1st cock. Karl For-
11 of Montpelier; 2d cock, C. B. Win
SINKING WAS
LEGITIMATE
Is Claim of Germany in Con
nection with Delto
Case
PLAYLET WAS PLEASING.
Furnished Part of the Program at Ipi
copal Christmas Exercises.
Tim annual thristma exercises and
tree were held In the parlor of the
Church of the Good Shepherd last even
inir bv the children of the church and
! Sunday school, aud to help eclehratf the
iMt-iwi,!n parents and mewls of tu chil
dren filled the parlors of the church to
listen to the entertainment. Every
thing waa in keeping with a merry
Vlih'tide. A Urge tree at one side of the
room, decorated with colors of red and
green and with Santa Clause of red and
while. The parlors also were decorated
in red and green, with Christmas bells
suspended from the ceiling. Beside the
tree, there were two table loaded with
present a and candy, the candy being put
into roue-sliH-d Christmas boxes and
sell of the children wa presented a
cone.
The feature of the evening, however,
v.as the playlet in two act by the chil
dren, it taking the form of a Christmas
wined v and being tilled with wit which
kept the audience in an uproar through
out the evening's entertainment. The
play was staged in the ante-room of the
parlor, the mom being the flat commonly
known a Finnegan's Hat and was occu
pied by Pat Finnegan and Biddy Finite-
tt ruction t,f the Norwegian steamship ! ran. his wife. It was rather of a dingy-
IMto with Americans in the crew de-1 looking place, with the windows in the
dares that the steamer was chartered for I rear covered with snow and all signs of
SHIP CHARTERED
FOR A TRANSPORT
Crew Given Half an Hour to
Leave, Weather Was Clear,
Shore Was Not Far Off
Berlin, Dee. 27, via London, Pee. 28.
The reply to the German government to
the American inquiry regarding the de
transport purpose 'to a Mligerent gov
ernment and hence the destruction was
legitimate.
This reply, which has been delivered to
the American embassy, savs that as far
as possible the safety of the crew was
prosperity entirely lacking in the sur
roiiudings, and poverty staring the fin
nrvans in the face at every nook and
co i ner.
Frank Wolls took the part of Pat and
did remarkably well, while Lucy Wells
provided for. the men being given half j played the part of Biddy Finnegan. John
an hour in which to enfr the boats. . The , Hall, as Prof. Baton, a German violinist,
weather was clear aud the distance to
the shore was not excessive.
SEARCH FOR MARY-
LAND ABANDONED
Hope for tbe Thirty or More Men, Who
Were on Board, is Based on the Pos
sibility of Their Having Taken
to Small Boats.
Nantucket, Mass., Per. 28. The steam
had remarkable control of his German
dialect, and Miss Neversmile, by Isabel
Beat tie. was also well taken. Those who
took less important parts did equally
well. 'Tlie program also consisted of sev
eral songs and recitations, woven in
with the comedy in a way that proved
very novel.
After the program was completed, the
present were distributed, Frank (!. How
land calling the names, and the older
boys ai-ted as dispensers of the gifts.
At the close of the evening's festivities,
Miss Maud Coburn, who had the entire
BODY CARRIED
HOME IN SLEIGH
Walter A. Johnson Was In
stantly Killed Chop
ping Trees
SKULL FRACTURED )
AS AN OAK FVi
V
His Companion, li Win
ters, Took the ;mains
Out of the Woods
Brattleboro, pec. 28. Walter A. John
son, aged 41, of Westminster was in
stantly killed late yesterday afternoon
in the wood in his hill pasture. Ho
and John Winters had been cutting wood.
Just before quitting time they dislodged
an oak tree which had caught on other
trees twenty feet "from the ground. It
fell, striking Mr. Johnson on the head
and fracturing the skull. Mr. Winters
took him home in a sleigh.
Mr. Johnson leave his wife, who was
Libra Hooper of Walpole, N. 11., and one
child three years of age.
, .' ' ', .' ... care of the program, was presented a
Maryland was regarded as probably i. . V . i-:u:... i i n....i;
ost to day. The search for the vessel by , f mi.nih(.M of tll(. Sllnd,v
he coast guard cutters Acushnet and tM, . V(.ry ,y rp.
I.resham, begun after the Maryland; ,. .,,' ' OJ f,.i ......
called for assistance by wireless Christ-!'.....'', ... ,, ,ri,.. ,;..,:.. .4
..Int. .. . .. l...,,).. J 4i., nn u,tl,
...., -....-... y,y ,.rRV,r for (hristnias." Kthel Castle;
out any trace having been found of the igonp jule niritniaB Vl,.Ulrr ,ri.
vessel or her crew Hope for the safety , d(parlm,.nt . ..Novv ,)on t y0II
of the vessel s thirty odd men lies in the T(.,,; Mil(rP(, A (., in
possibility that they were pi.kej up by illlP Window," junior class of girls; song,
a passing steamer. After the Maryland i .. itlli n..iu f .!, i.,irm.;t
sent out her first call for assistance, the
wireless operator reported tho engine
room as flooding, when the wireless sud
denly failed.
SMALL EPIDEMIC IN VERMONT.
Scarlet Fever Haa Broken Out in Two
Far Separated Sections.
Burlington, Pec. 28. There is a small
epidemic of acarlet fever in Vermont,
rases being most prevalent in the ex
treme northern and southern parts of the
state. The cases have, M a rule, been
class of girls; song, "Stars of Decern-ber,-'
junior class of girls.
GLENUGIANS CELEBRATE.
With Feasting, Toasting, Singing and
Dancing Last Evening.
Feasting, toasting, song and dancing
brought to its close another successful
year in the annals of the Glcnugie club
last evening when some forty sons
Buchttn, with their wives and other in
vited guests came together in Clan Gor-
light ones, although there have been; don hall for their vearlv jollification.
three fatalities and a number of severe J Covers were laid for eighty people and
cases, which shows that the epidemic j there were few absentees when the big
may be considered serious, nr. i. r. dinner of chicken was gotten under way
Palton, secretary of the state board of jBt fl o'clock. The hall was attractively
health, and Dr. H. A. Ladd of the state jdeeora ted with colored festoons that
laboratory have visited Montgomery and-, gomehow seemed to center in front of
an arch which fronted the orchestra left.
An illuminated disc over the arch let. it
be known that the (ilenugie and tlie
Glenugians only were holding forth.
Charles A. Keith presided happily as
toastmaster and among the representa
tives were the following: Scotland,
DIED AT GRANITE VILLE.
Anthony Donahue Was Well Known
Resident There.
Anthony Donahue, one of the oldest
residents of Graniteville and for several
years a prominent merchant in Barre
Town, died at his home last evening at
8:.'i0 o'clock. Mr. Donahue observed his
82d birthday Sept. 21. He was a native
of St. Sylvester Last, P. Q., and came to
Graniteville a quarter-century ago. For
a time he was engaged in the mercantile
business and afterward he conducted a
grain store, retiring from business activ
ities some years ago.
Fifty-six year ago he was married in
St. Sylvester K,ast to Miss Lllen Sheri
dan, who survivor him. In 1010 Mr. and
Mrs. Donahue celebrated their golden
wedding anniversary. The deceased
leaves two sisters, Mrs. Bridget Poherty
of Grand Rapids. Mich., and Mrs. Julia
McCullongh of Detroit. Mich. Also sur
viving are a nephew, James F. Donahue,
and a niece. Miss Mary E. Gallagh-r,
both of Graniteville.
The funeral services will be held in St.
Sylvester's church Saturday morning at
fl o'clock, the parish priest, Rev. Fr. Jo
seph Turcot, officiating. Interment will
lie made in St. Sylvester's cemetery near
South Barre.
LEAVES NO RELATIVES.
was another suggestion for modification edition of strength, progress and growth
' ..... .... nil ... .i.if.iii, Kdrini,rj.i nf nul inn.
and contained insistence that American
troops in Mexico be withdrawn immedi
ately, c
DECLARED SOLVENT.
Case of Martin H. Gibson of Ryegate
Was Pend'ag a Year.
St. Johnsbnry. Pee. 28. An involun
tary petition in bankruptcy tiled against
Martin H. Gibon of Ilyegate, was dis
missed bv Federal Judge Edwin M.
Thomas of Connecticut, in a hearing, held ing state banks, savings banks and loan
Tuesday evening at the ofiice of Judge land trust companies and national (tanks
Harland B. Howe. The case had been as well, as late as the year 1304
beyond all precedent. Resources of nation
al banks on the date of the last call are
greater than the total resources of all
reporting state banks, savings banks, pri
vate banks and loan and trust companies
throughout the United States at the time
of the inauguration of the federal re
serve system about two years ago.
"It is also noteworthy that the re
sources of our national banks at this
time exceed by $321,01)0,000 the total re
sources of all the reporting banking in
stitutions in the I'nitcd States, includ
ident Wilson had no intention of drawing
a public declaration concerning lerms .Chester of Koyalton; 1st lien, i '. n. vwn
from the central power. On the con-1 Chester: 1st. 2d and 3d cockerel, 1st, 2d
trary they think the president's sugges-'and 3d pullet, C. B. Winchester; shape
tion "that an early occasion be sought and color, niRlc, Karl Forsell; shape and
to call out from all nations now at war! color, female, C. B. Winchester; silver
such an avowal of their respective views cup for the best display, C. B. Win-
as to the terms upon which the war Chester.
might be concluded," has been fully met s. C. Buff Leghorns 1st cockerel, H.
pending iu court for over a year. The
creditors alleged that Mr. (iibson had
conveyed property to defraud them.
Judge Howe was prevented from sit
ting on the rase as he was one of the
creditors, and it was heard by Judge
Thomas of the United States district
court for Connecticut. The case was dis
missed by him, on tbe grounJ, that Mr.
(iibson was not insolvent. Harry Wit
ters of Porter, Witters and Harvey ap
)carcd for the alleged bankrupt, and
ioree L. Hunt uf Montpelier for the
petitioning creditor. Chsrles Hosi'orJ
mad Fred Wright of Woodsvitle appeared
ler tKe intervening c red. tors.
The greatest percentage of increase.
the comptroller states, during the two
year period in which the federal reserve
system has been in operation was in
the western states. Geographically, the
increase twas as follows: New England,
22 per cent ; eastern states, 3! per cent ;
southern states, 32 per cent; middle
western states, 31 per cent; western
states, 50 per cent; Pacific state, 33 per
cent.
"In this period, the statement say.
"the New England and et-m states in
creased a totsl of 2.l.V.0). whde
the sonth and west, including tie far
west, increased $2,2,f)"(im.n
by Germany in seeking an immediate
conference with her enemies.
The German Policy.
The German policy upon which the re
ply to, President Wilson's communica
tion is based, was outlined as follows:
Germany feels that the conference sug
gested by it first should lie composed ot
delegates from the belligerent countries,
whose duty it would be to settle terri
torial terms. Once these terms are agreed
upon, representatives of the neutrals
should be called in to particiate in con
sideration of the questions of guarantees
for the future, in which neutrals are as
vitally concerned as belligerents. These
guarantees, in the German view, neces
sarily would have to do with the free
dom of the seas, limited disarmament,
formation of a world league of nations
to enforce peace, and the establishment
of an international court of arbitration.
Germany is said to consider that neu
tral nations can have no interest of their
own in terms such as those relating to
territory.
Staekpole. Montpelier; 2d cockerel, A. C.
Oilman. Montpelier j 1st hen, A. C. Gil
man; 2d hen, H. Staekpole; 3d hen, A. C.
Oilman; shape and color on male, H.
Staekpole; shape and color on female,
A. C. Oilman.
R. C. Black Minorcas n. W. Scott of
Barre won everything in his class.
S. C. Brown Leghorns 1st cockerel
and 1st pullet, Charles Balcntine of East
Calais. '
PRESIDENT WILSON
60 YEARS OLD TO-DAY
He Received Many Messages of Congrat
ulation from Various Parti
of the Country.
Washington, P. C, Pec. 23. President
YEAR AT HARD LABOR
FOR ATTACKING GIRL
W. H. Willett of Burlington Sentenced in
City Court There By Judge Harvey
of Montpelier City Court. "
Burlington, Pec. 2S. W. H. Willett
was sentenced to a year at hard labor in
the bouse of correction by Judge E. M.
Harvey of Montpelier. sitting in city
court here to-day. Willett pleaded guil
ty of an attempted assault on a girl who
is a stenographer to the city court clerk.
Willett has a wife and four children.
Groton, where a large number of cases
have appeared. -
A part of the svVxils in the state
closed earlier than' was intended on ac
count of the fever and in Montgomery
and Johnson Christmas exercises were
lKwt noned. a strict quarantine being kept.
There are undoubtedly many cases of the Representative James K. Piric of Wil-
tever w nicn are so ngru uim oi.ysicio.i i,amstoWn; "The Ladies," Harrv David
is not, called and the health officer is not !. ,ii,n rhn Ur,,u. Amn,.;,.s,
notified. But those who hV been sub- Alexander Re'id. Some of the old songs
ject to these very light ease can carry that are a part of the heritage which
tne germs 10 ouiers wno may "-jsoions of that country where rolls the
disease in a severe form. Light cases are jcatgi,, Cghie brought with them to
akeo apt to leave the patient with chron-1 America were touchinglv rendered bv
ie troubles of the kidneye, heart, ears and Miss parbara McDonald". Miss Agnes
even the brain. ' I K,.it h. Afiss Elizabeth Stenhen. Oeonre
Other than scarlet fever there is not a !jllLw)d Bnd ieo sievright. Xone of
great amount of contagous disease in the BO,oisU wag aliowed to retire with
the state. Measles and whooping cough ;ont encwe M(l tha (lemnnJ for an
are found, as u i usua at this tune of the , tf,gion of remarkg WU8 just pro
year, but diphtheria has been pretty well , nmlnt,ed wheneVPr anvont, arose to re-
stamped out. Two threatened epidemics
of diphtheria have been checked by tak-
. . . , t. I .L!IJ.
ing wholesale cultures oi scnoi i-iiiimru
spond to a toast. A distinctly enjoy
able feature was the reading of a let
ter from George Booth, a resident or
Where these cultures have been taken , in ; , , X. V., who in other days was
largo numbers it has been found that of mo .itg of th,. ,,..
about i per cent snow uie iiceui-9
active germs.
SUBMITTED TO CAPTURE.
Villa Made No Resistance When Taken
in Barre To-day.
Somewhere north of Chihuahua, the
Barre police raptured Villa this after
noon. The efforts of Tershing's column,
Scott and Funston to the contrary not
withstanding, he submitted tamely to ar-1
ing sr
gie club. Mr. Booth toasted Biichan. the
land of his birth, and graciously offered
a tribute to the women of Glenugie. The
toastmaster read the letter and its con
tents were loudly acclaimed.
After the exercises, the hall was
Mrs. Rosa Prario Died at City Hospital
Wednesday Evening.
Mrs. Rosa Prario, wife of the late
A. Prario, died at the city hospital Wed
nesday evening around 7 o'clock, the end
following an illness of nearly two
months. Seven weeks ago, Mrs. Prario
sustained a paralytic shock and a fort
night afterward she was removed to the
hospital for treatment. One side of her
body was affected by the paralysis and
from the outset her condition was re
garded as serious. So far as known she
leaves no relatives in America, although
there are distant kin living in Italy.
With her husband, she came to America
ten years ago and had lived almost con
tinually in Barre. Mr. Prario's death oc
curred "three years ago. Mrs. Prario has
resided for some time in the Sanguinetti
block on Xorth Main street.
Funeral services will be held in St.
Monica's church Friday afternoon at 2
o'clock. The parish priest, Rev. lr. 1.
M. McKenna, will officiate and interment
will be made in the Catholic cemetery
on Beckley street.
'HAPPY-G0-LUCKY'SH
Held a Leap-Year Dance in Howland Hall
Last Evening.
The members of the "Happy Go Lucky"
club held a leap year ball in Howland
hall last evening, there being about 30
couples on the floor to dance to the
strains of Riley's music. Take it all to
gether, it was the most successful enter
tainment yet held by the club. A great
deal of work was put into trimming up
the hall bv the members of the commit
tee in charge of the affair. The orchestra
leared of tables and chairs nnd until ! played from a platform in the center of
Hie nail inmnieo in iru mm picru oiii.
surrounded with a row of evergreen ti ees.
the wee, sma' hours were arriving, the
Biichan folk danced the old reels and
the familiar schottische. Mrs. John
Forbes had catered for the banquet and
an efficient corps of assistants saw to
rest and of his own accord walked all the j it that there was an abundance of re
CHECKER TOURNAMENT ON.
Following Business Meeting of State Club
in St. Albans.
St. Albans, Pec. 28 The annual meet
ing of the Vermont Checker Club assoeja
The walls were all trimmed with oepe
paKr. Christmas bells were suspended
from the ceiling and streamers of red
and green crepe were attached to tho
sides of the room nnd ran to the centxr
of the hall, thus forming a canopy and
giving a beautiful effect.
Punch was served by the Misses Mur
iel Beattie, Mildred Lander and Mabel
MoLeod from a booth in one corner of
but in Granite street last night. Rosa t in a th,;e who have attend- l- " ' , at "of
Hrusa was the complaining witness and L the vearlv reunions since the club!0" to harmonwe h of ?
a badly -discolored eye was exhibited by orpanizod will be ready to depos. TTt ete7 nt we the
Mises Merle Gow. Kstheryn Martin,
Marion Anker and Teresa Carroll.
wav to Magistrate 1L W. Scott's court
at citv hall. Pancho Villa is atill at
large, but Charlie of the same surname
acknowledged a breach of the peace of
fense and paid a $5 fine and costs.
Villa's trouble started, not in Mexico
freshments for those who danced
There is little doubt that the Buch
aners were never any more pleased with
their annual get-together than last even
ing. It was the 1 St h banquet of its kind
and until another year comes along to
he complainant in vouchsafing her story tw ihe 1!U6 affair set the pace. The
, x Y1-. li: u-:..l.n 11,. I . . , ., e ,, r -ii
to ura nil juror ..imam itinii. - i committee inciuaeu ine ioiiow ing oihi
latter told the court this attemoon oi ms
investigation and alleged that the quar
rel took place in a house owned by the
respondent. Villa asked permission to
give bis own coloring to the fracas story
aud pictured the woman as a person who
combined with inebriacy the evil of cig
arette smoking. In extenuation, the re-
J . t . Al,np Matini fnr ill-
tifving his bourse in the quarrel. Judge William McLaughlin, Quarryman, Is Pa-
. . , , , A 4 1..
ugians: Iiarry uavmson, noneri .-Mimus.
Samuel Henderson, James Mortimer,
William Still, Alex. Reid, Charles A.
Keith, Alexander Cowie and James
Clubb.
SLIGHT SKULL FRACTURE.
Scott took iudicial notice of evidence of
fered in this manner by the prosecutor
tient at Hospital.
William McLaughlin, a quarry worker
I...U ti.;. .;. vui.. .o. : nul the respondent and after Mlla had , ,. . ,.,n i,,...ri,. ... ,..
,, willing l tn, j.. v., in--. ,-iiucih ; IIIJII 1 B II, -m ill j y rt-,-, , un i .... c n J' Lan,, frAm 11 1 iimiin"'",. - - .......... v ,
Wilson is 60 year old to-dav. He waslemoon, and the annual tournament of'paid his fine he was cvwnargea irorn ; hospital this forenoon to receive
. . ... . .1 .l.. All i. ,i,,it nnv iMnir the Kio i - 1 ,
the recipient of many congratulatory
messages from all parts of the country
and abroad. No sjt'eial celebration was
planned.
BAIL NOT FURNISHED.
And Leon Porrel Was Taken to Caledonia
County Court.
St. John-bury, Pec. 28. Leon Torrcl,
charged with breaking and entering into
a numlier of stores in Lyndonville on Fri-.
day night la. appeared before G. "C,
Krve in municipal court yesterday after
noon after returning with the officers
! from Nanlonl. .vie., wnere ne weni alter
the alleged breaks. He waa bound over
335 INVITATIONS
Sent to Attorneys to the Annual Bar
Meeting.
Burlington, Pec. 2. J. II. Mimm. sec
retary of the Vermont Bar association,
has snt 335 attorneys their invitations
to the annual bar meeting next Tuesday
at Montpelier. Tlw feature will be tlie
farewell address of Judge Loveland Mm-
on.
emoon. ana ine annua. i,r.ment ... Vj, iet ow the Ritf ji.v nospnai im. . mje: ,,,,,,,, eom.tv court under 1,0jn
the association opened after the nun-ting. J-txl. All is qmn now aiong treatment for a slight skull fracture -, 't fumj.hed and tha
The business session was held at 1:30
o'clock, and the following officers were
electen: President. W. i). Ingalls of
ltichford; vice-president, L. J. Kgel.-ton
of Rutland; secretary and treasurer, W.
C 1 1 nag of Purlincton: governing board.
W. D. lnr!l William Gill and J. M.
Tagpurt; director of games, William Oil.
following the meeting, the annual tour
nament opened.
Swedish Steamer is Missing.
Ixuidon, IVc. 2S. IJoyds announces
that the Swedish steamer Friga is be
lieved to have been sunk.
Crandc.
OFFICERS' SCHOOL HELD.
About 40 Expected to Participate at St.
Albans.
St. Albans. Per. 28. The annual school
. , , ...tr i :.. i .. .i . hull. lii "" -
wnicn lie , ... .c..,.-i -t ... ,,lrn thA rniinU i. I
Boutwell. Milne A arnuin quarries to-,1'" . . v.. j. ......... i
dav. With other quarrymen, Mel-augh- I
lin was tipping over a stone in the .
quarry yard. A I hitch was used in ! SEVERELY BURNED,
CCU ring llir i"irc nun N iimin ill,l j
one of the loose ends slipped from thet
to awall inai. I lie case may or aisnuseix
of ill this session Of county court.
Frank Wbeelork Injured at Scale Works
in St. Johnsbury.
St. Johnsbury, Pec. 28. Fr jk Wheel-
l . ts" . i J m. v .
ticers are making their headquarters at man to the hwpital. Although "e in o. k. a moni.ier empio, oy ine rair-.v-
-r r mA .,. .B.irw are K iiiir i.irv is a Painful one. the idivi tsn is bank Sle t o.. suffered serious burns chi
held at the armorv. It is expected thst 'not apprehensive of seri..u- re-nlts snd one of his feet yetrrday when he spilled
about 40 commissioned officers of the' it is thought that the tient will m..ke im.lt.n irn into one of his hos. Ho
state will be present a pcedy recovery. lu Brightlook hor.tL
for the officers of the 1st infantry. V. X. j granite. Mclaughlin was struck on the
i- i..,l In I liia citv lt nii-lit and ; id of his head. Ir. K. II. Haih v was
will continue until this evening. The of- called and it wa decided to remove the St
