HAPPY NEW
YEAR TO All
, - - . . - - -:- -:v - ; -
VOUXXIli. NO: 50 : WP ' HENDERSONVILLE, NC.THURDECEMBE, 1916
Farmers t&mga
Henderson. County WEAVER TALKS lOD ADViCEi SlSfilttiff
Tlio farmers will organize a Hender
son County Farmers' Association at
Jho court house Tuesday, January 2,
at 11 a. m. A call has been made by
fourteen leading farmers of the coun.
ty for this meeting and every man. on
th0 farm is urged to attend.
The object of the organization is
for the betterment of the farm life,
bettor farms, better stock, better mar
kets, better roads, a county fair, dem
onstrator, creameries and in fact any
thing for the good of the farmers.
The new year promises to be the
best year for the the farmer in the
history of the county and with a per
manent organization of members
from all over the county meeting reg.
ularly to discuss improved methods,
exchanging ideas and co-operating
with the state and government will
no doubt greatly increase the values
of agricultural lands.
The question of organizing anoth
er farm loan association will be dis
cussed. Information will he given by
E. ?. Millsaps. state agent, who will
address the meeting.
A number of short talks and the
personal expressions from a number
of farmers will be heard atthe meet
ing.
A tentative program has been sug
gested as follows:
" Call to order by Dr. C. Few.
Nominations for temporary chair
man, secretary.
Object of the meeting stated by the
chairman.
Introduction of speakers for ,10 J
minutes talks. !
State Agent, E. S. Millsaps.
R. H. Staton, vice president First
Bank & Trust company.
E. W. Ewbank, president of Citizens
National Bank.
Dr. C. Few, retired physician and
farmer.
J. W. Morgan, farmer.
John T. Wilkins, merchant.
J. W. Bailey, railroad agent. - v
CHRIST3IAS AFFAIR AT THE
PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH.
"It is more blessed to give than to
receive" was the theme of the delight
ful entertainment given by the Pres
byterian Sunday school last Sunday
afternoon at 4:30 o'clock.
Instead of the usual custom of the
Sunday school pupils being given a
treat of candies and fruit, it was de
cided to make this a giving Christmas,
and the children came w'th the'r s-ifts
for those who are less fotrunate than
themselves.
The church was tastefully decorated
in evergreens, and stretched against
the railing of the rostrum was a white
canvas having the scriptural motto:
"It is more blessed to give than to re
ceive." In front of the motto stood a
white cross garlanded with ivy and
kalinia, forming a pleasing attractive
effect.
Recitations and songs were rendered
bv the children, all typical of the gift
of the Christ child to a lost world.
Two little tots whose songs were lis
tened to with much pleasure and in.
terest were John Brown and Elswirth
Meteer, who each stood before the
large audience and sang of the joy
to the world in the birth of the
Savior.
The other pupils rendered their
songs and recitations in a very cred
itable manner, and the entire pro
gram was most inspiring and enter
taining. The cash offerings and contribu
tions of groceries and. provisions
were ery liberal. The Balfour Or
phanage and a few needy - families
were the recipients of the contribu
tions and as the text. "Itis more
blessed to give than to receive was
beautifully demonstrated.
XMAS BUSINESS WAS
FINE SAYS ADVERTISERS.
Hustler Investigates Among: Its Ad
vertisers Finds Good Results.
Some Doubled.
Hendersonville business
. 1
nOU&ea
rared well
trade. The Hustler made a careful
. " t
ill YPKTlP'n t'nn o m r-r, 4fa lioQl a rllTOi- I
tisers and without a single exception j
D UUUUB 0 v.r-
it was found that the holiday trade I
had surpassed last var and in many 1
surpassed last, vear and in many i
iuoiiiiiees it nad douoied tne same
one year ago.
Hendersonville business men are
very nruch encouraged over the out-
,4. .. . - " . . ... 1
S" , iiitSsSft?Sly
Pirt of the Sea? Th cttv author!-
ties' a4 keepfng rtKast ol the times
an Aw v ji ,o
vi" llgllt UUW gpeUUlllg mwua"3
nf riniian t- t
ments. I
Ue1Sh0,5,a3 lbewrh.er 13 m?e
lbU11?f " starLa!Ie
fore.
figuring on many new houses
The city will in all probability Jiave
a golf course within the next few
mnnthc An nnn-i. mr.a Vi am thia I
eek confering with a -local commit-
tee in looking over several sites suit
able for" such. Ie depends on -how
cheap the landowners will , lease the
Property before anything definite can
fce stated as to the location.
Misses Annie Patton and Erline Hart
are spending the Xmaa holidays In
Charleston.
fc.T
4 w . .
James Foy Justice, Senator of the .:
Thirty-third North Carolina district
leaves next week to take up his duties
in Raleigh during the legislature.
Senator Justice was elected by a
handsome majority and begins his po
litical career quite a young man. He
is one of the leading young lawyers
of this section of the state and will
no doubt make his mark during the
session of 1917 legislature.
When seen by a Hustler reporter
Mr. Justice was reluctant in speaking
of what he proposed to enter in the
way of new bills; but emphatically
stated that he was not going to im
pose any additional expenses or taxes
upon the county and would use all his
efforts in giving his district the best
legislation in his power to-obtain.
In speaking of creating any new
offices for Henderson county Mr. Jus
tice stated that he was not in favor
gj.jA.rjH VVj '"-T u -
of such unless it was a non-partisan jpnsn some substantial good for the
board to take care of the county leg: people of the tenth district and I shall
islation, after the constitutional j enter upon my duties with the pur
amendments had gone into effect. He jpose of working not only for the tenth
wouldnot commit himself even on , district hut for the state and the na-
this until, he has thoroughly gone into
the matter after hearing both sides in
Raleigh and find what other counties
are going to do about it.
Senator Justice has spoken on scv-
eral occasions that he has no a.ve to tneenactment of progressive and bene
grind or special privileges to extend flclal legislation."
in serving the people of this district; The awarding of the certificate of
that he will endeavor to give them election to Zebulon Weaver, Democrat,
the best he has regardless where the i hy the state canvassing board, follow.
chips may fall or the consequence of j ing the congressional controversy be
his political career. j tween Mr. Weaver and Congressman
Senator Justice states that he is in Britt, which has been on since the day
favor of the Australian ballot system
and will favor most of the recommen
dations of the special committee on
the reform of our civil procedure
whereby the expense of holding
courts will be reduced from $1,000 to
$1,500 to Henderson county and the
trial of cases greatly simplified.
The Hustler will keep in touch with
legislature and report all matters
pertaining to Henderson county.
VETERAN PASSES.
Mr. Enloe, Formerly of Henderson
County Dies Suddenly In This
City--Sl Years Old.
T. J. Enloe, a former citizen of this
county, 81 years old, died suddenly
at the home of his sister-in-low, Mrs.
N. E. Hesterly, on Washington street,
last Friday night where he and Mrs.
Enloe were visiting. He is survived
hv o wifo anrl fiVA children. Tne
Zi,4i vr.B Aihpr- ra?p Mrs
?"enr...r.M,. eCri0f of
1 T." ,r.. lm
tnis cu u my an qiwu duu. nuu
San Francisco.
Mr. Enloe had been making his
. t,ot, g n fT. thA Tni
home near Inman S C.. for the nasi
few years but was ' f
. .. . .
. 1ST LU.fi nai uo D'vu -"
1 11.. J4T -ha saivAH irt'tha V.htn
m - -
rv or III Vii.1 VJiiua icguucui. uuu
nr.ava f this
-Z: ' rtT; Ww
. -,-r V. rnr
county, tie va3 uue ui OUi
vivincy 'hers and it is thouch that
"Vyone or two members of this well
2!L? nli TJT, Hvinr -
KT,r nmnanv ar now livinir.
RliU " 11. -",Ul- J C
T,-It,
FLORIDA FIKM WATS CHICKENS.
""""""" ' .
rrV 'TJIirmoTi firncorw tin, Of NpW
'" P1?- written our local ,
I Board of TraU aski.ns for "".t
I 'alr " 1
"y"" j
vu.a, egga "." "
V,iV.o
cniCKens.
Instead o sending a list of names
11 A anctl! 4Via TTn atlOT- tn
! PuMUhment is" 'itatemenT iiViag
Cch farmer the .ame opportunity.
MODEKN WOODMEN MEETING.
XIlA
The Modern Woodmen wui noid an
open meeting next Monday night Jan
uary 1st., and all members ana tneir
families are cord'ally invited to attend.
MISS JUSTICE SICK.
The many friends of Miss Nora
Justice will regret to learn that she
is quite sick at her home on Oak
street. , .
If Mr. Britt Takes it up the Bepnb.
publicans Will Kegret it
1 ...
- He Says. ' , . . ,
HEPUBLICAKS ABE SORE.
(fluy Goiimm in Greensboro News.)
Asheville, Dec. 23. Congressman,
elect. Zebulon Weaver gave out a state
ment to the press in which he says
that he and his Democratic friends-do
do not fear a contest by Mr. Brittfon
the floor of the house. Mr. Weaver
say8 that If the congressional fight is
taken to the house he . proposes to
bring out some interesting facts. His
statement follows:
"To say nothing of illegalities, irreg-,
ularities In the eelction, I expect to
show Congress conclusively, in case
of a contest, that I received a majority
of the votes cast and deposited in the
. "v mV fluls"1UL; viaenee
my ha.ntiS. certified and sworn to,
shows this to be a fact. I have not
relied on rumors or hearsay state-
ments.
"In regard to unmarked ballots re
ferred to by my opponent in the elec
tion, I expect to show that there were
many unmarked ballot for him in what
Mr. Britt claimed were the returns;
that in many precincts unmarked bal
lots were counted for him and that if
the election had been determined by
the unmarked ballots alone I would
hare received a majority of the votes
cast.
"Going further there is evidence of
illegal voting and other irregularities
and this testimony comes from all sec
tions of the district. If a contest is
inaugurated by Mr. Britt I expect to
expose all illegal and unfair methods
resorted to in the district and in so
doing I shall Jeel that I am performing
a service to which the people of. the
tenth district are entitled.
I hope while in Congress to accom-
; tion. I feel that the Democratic party
in the four years of its incumbency has
accomplished more for the people than
any party has ever accomplished and
I will do all m my power to assist in
.
;of election, added another chapter in
an already famous case and did not
meet theapproval oj the great host of
Republicans here in the 10th, as was
natural. The Republicans were keen
ly disappo'nted for they fully believed
that the state Supreme court would
uphold Mr. Britt in his appeal and that
the certificate would not be awarded to
Mr. Weaver.
It is generally believed here that Mr.
Britt will take his fight to the floor of
the house, which he as intimated here
on several occasions that he would do,
in case the courts of the state decided
against him. No decision regarding
this is expected, however, until Mr.
Britt's arrival here this week from
Washington, the Congress adjourning
Friday for the -holidays.
The Democrats are greatly elated
over what they say an end to the
congressional controversy, for many
of the leading Democrats here, when
seen hy a representative of the Daily
v" ""1WU.1 ..aj u.auttli Blttieu 11111
1 -ney aia not relieve tnat Congressman
?ritt would dare take the fight to the
noor of tne Boose
One Democrat said
that If Britt did go to the floor of the and monkeys that the tourists greatly them. This is about the people who spent It will pay handsome divl
house with his fight and lost there that enjoy. ' I did not those who didn't. j dends. It is the only way to get what
tt-" " Je
"e wouia De luuea politically nere m
&g he De defet
'at home and In the Congress, whereas
i:tiinisr rif mnin htiii annca n
T .,T.H A1 1 w . -
--v. i,M. w viic
i f1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 im no .it i iid i rn irfniiA.
ix;
I tiUU au wouia stana a cnance ol
'again becoming the congressman from
i "4 ai""ct . . .
, . -"".fT?' " ttls
f?ea ?nd sist that Mr. Britt will be
;tne strongest man the party ever had
in-the district, regardless of the out-
come of contest in Congress. He
can again be the standard bearer of
il t- tn .
uie ncpuDncan party in tne lutn, win
or loseMi 5.1.' renerafopin
lon ' sTerl "dtog Republicans
to resardlnj thifpoin? . .
While the decision reached by the
Supreme court and "the state canvass
ing board pleased local Democrats, at
least most of them, and surprised and
displeased local Republicans, it came
as a great relief to many men who do
not take any great interests in pdlitics
of any nature, other than voting once
in awhile. They have been swamped
with politics for some time now, in
fact ever since last spring, when the
Democrats first starbad the campaigns
for the primary and many of these
men are glad that they will now have
a chancb to talk and think of other
matters for awhile anyway;
Miss Lila Wynne, a teacher in; the
Flat Rock Schools is spending the holi
days in Gaffney, S. C.
Write What St. Petersburg, Fla., Has
- aB4 ( Is Doing IIow Hendersdii
TiHe Should GrQv.
SHOULD BUY TWO PABKS.
Hendergonville can be made the
great . Summer ' Resort ' of the south.
Scenery., ri valine - any in
America; CrystaJ. Springs water, clear
and cola, curing diseose r that have
baffled, our best physicians, air satur
ated with theexhalations of the noble
white pine invigorating all who"
breathe - it freely, a climate unsur
passed,? north o rsouth, a location on
au uqauiaiing plateau imequaled m
any. other mountain section are the
natural attractions given by Deity to
your citizens, your State, the nation
the world. i
These-great attractions are not
purchasable, they are a gift a. prince-
iy aouauou maae for np.nenr nf man 1
given only to a few places or sec
tions. For the -iivslirt ilm ilu&cnl r.r
recluse ; ones such kttrnrtirma .1Y.W
suffice, but for the great masses of last throughout all time. ; ,
people, the professional or the busi- I Tne spirit of Chritsmas is the spirit
ness men, the agriculturist or me- 1 of Christ and the Christian spirit wa
chanic I who constitute fully nire everywhere in evidence: Chief Otis
tenths of the tourists, they are insuffi- . Powers was there with the, tree and
cient, the great multitude of men tne decorations and ,; called on Bill
who visit summer or winter resorts : Bansa to electrify things. Bill was
for relaxation from business can. only ' there as usual when anything is need
be held "by social pleasures' and out ' ed.;: Lots.. of folks stand, in awe of a
door amusements. In a .few brief chief pf police probably because he
letters we propose to show some of pwsts lawful authority but no
the numerous attractions. ? furnisher DOdy was &wed hy the smile that stuck
here. that. has. made St - Petersburg to the face of our chief of police Sat-
the Tourist Capital of the South.
Hospitality shown the tourist should
be mentioned first, for it is one of.
tne sunsnine City's main assets.
Winter visitors love to come because
they find hearty welcome they soonf
feAl- at tTfo Thpv nrr,.0n;of v.
L . .w
comfortahlo tn in hvpi-v waxr moVa
their stay- pleasant, "and in return
write theiVrhoTw'ft nanerK p-iwino- i-t...
car filled with friends -from their
town or onmitv
The numerous churches and frater. Freeze, J. L,. Rose and. Miss, jma Mc-j every man, woman ana cmm.. ; Aua
nal societies here at once seek out Clain made a sextette of ministerinf up late doing the same thing, if iz is
the tourists who are members of their spirits whose kindness, love and care, j necessary. Every letter you write ii.
Association and extend to them a for the poor made them known as real j vite some one to come to Henderson
brotherly regard and marked atten- Daughters of the King. They were t ville and bring a friend; or several,
tion. Nearly every state in the everywhere, they wanted to helD every . Send Hendersonville literature to
Union is renrpsentpri hv a stato ACCn needv on and they did. Dr. C. Few. I everybody you know and a great
ciation. The churches erive them the
use of the church for their social or
business meetings several times each
month; for out door amusements our
numerous parks give the tourists ail
thev need or desire- our citv saw th
absolute necessity for parks ten years men who attended the community j marking items about Hendersonville's
ago 'then we had only one given the ' celebration were men with big warm improvements, new enterprises, and all
city, its founder a Mr. Williams now hearts. these things of public interest, and ;
we have at least seven fine narks in- : The merchants and citizens of Hen- send them to somebody at a distance. ;
side tne city limits, ranging in s:ze
from two to twenty acres. Our ci;y
now proposes to make two more on
the bay front that for the purchase
of the land and preparation for
planting will cost over forty thou
sand dollars. In Williams park, one
block from the center of business wo
have made ample preparation in the
way of open-air amusements. There
are eight v fine croquet courts and
about same number of quoit courts.
These are kept in fine shape and
used daily by hundreds of citizens.
There is a beautiful band stand,
around which seats are furnished
that will accommodate thausand3 of
people. A very comfortable pavilion to contribute. They didn't get mucn know notnmg about the Tacts. But it -has
been built to be used by checker 'pleasure out of Christmas such peo- is worth while to give them the facts.
and chess players; in the center of ple never do. The spirit of Christmas . There are people all over this country
the park is a large fountain the wa- isn't for such people. The real Christ- ! just waiting for you to invite them
ter flowing constantly; At the base , mas joy consists in mcking some on ' to some handsome, happy, hustling
a pool is made as a home for hun- else happy and it's a paradoxical Hendersonville. But you say this will
dreds of acquatlc plants and gold fish, j truth that in giving to others we re- cost money. Of course it will. Every,
in thepark are fine" toilets for both ' ceive more than we give. i thing of any worth in this life cost
sexes. There is also a few squirrels
It costs our city not less than eight
thousand dollars to keep these parks
in good order, but they draw crowds
of tourists wbo leave millions with us j event hereafter. Mayor Brooks was ,'ToujcJst Capital." Just get together,
every year and owning so much pro- jas happy as tho' he had just heard of ' Pull together. I hope they will par
perty our financial rating is equal to .Zebulon Weaver's election to Con- don my "butting in:" I feel interested
any in the land for any bonds we de- greSi.. There was not a sad heart in in Hendersonville, and want to agitate
sire to sell. The city band piays in
one of the parks every Sunday and is
enjoyed by thousands.. Mirror lake ; ability to provide a similar occasion
containing mare than twenty acres is j f or an the poor little waifs of the whole
located in the center of our finest res- world. The author of Christmas haa
idential districts, here is our fine Car- promised that even a cup of cold wa
negie library with some four theu- ; ter given in His name shall have an
thousand books. The Athletic Club j abundant reward. Then think o the
and Boy Scouts will both have build- reward f0r the people who contiibuted
ihgs in this park. of their means or labor to make happy
Our city is now making six nne
Rouque Courts m this park to oe
used by various national clubs. -
Now is the time for ienaerson
ville to secure at least ground enough .
for two city parks, one to be on noTth
Main street and tne- otner on tne
south. As an investment it will pay
better tbion anything you can do. - ,
In next letter I will describe our
golf grounds and ball grounds. These
have already brought hundreds - qr
new-citizens and a vast sum ol money
to our city.
Yours truiy,
JNO. E. ENNIS.
:
Mr. and Mrs. R. L. Rusher, of Pe-
tersburg, Va.are visiting the home of
Mr. Rusher's parents, Mr. and Mrs. J.
A. Rusher. Mr. Rusher .will return
Friday.
Mayor Brooks Chief Powers antt Cm.
' mittee of Ladies Beeeixe. Praise --
For Their Efforts. -
LIBERAL SUPPORT GIVEX.
; v (Sam T. Hodges.)
It - was some community Christmas
tree Well I guess so
Everybody
was there including Santa Claus a la
M. C. Letson, and. everybody was hap
py. Why not? One loo t at the de.
lighted faces of the poor littl.3 tots who
received gifts would have sent a yule
tide glow into a heart Of stone and
; wce ""-""j " "
'4'Ed" Brooks or to use his official, title
' Mayr Brooks, started "the, ball rolling
1 when he introduced in a few well
ciiosen woras. tne Big sscout, uev uec.
4. Wright. , 'Big scout". Wright was in
' his happiest Aiumor he saw the hapty
w-a vi .
further he saw into the hearts cf
ffcnar rhiJdren and he knew that im-
! pressions were bein made that would
urday. He . had worked hard, and he
received his reward, theonly reward
that any real man ever desires on such
an occasion, the reward of a duty faith-
fully performed and the satisfaction of
knowing that by. reason of his efforts he
was brinsrinff. sunshine and happiness
into the Mves of hundreds of tioor littlti
children who but for the community
tree would hr.ve had no presents, no
toys. no. candy. and no real Christmas;
as could ben-Mesdames R.,Barnwen,
i j. F'. Brooks James Laughter.. P.
who attended tne festivities, tnougnt
for a minute that ha was attending a
Methodist love feast and he had dim -
culty in restraining a shout of praise.
Io wonder any man with a heart
' would have felt the same way and the
dersonville had the spirit an rignt. it creates taiK ana taiK aDOUt ien
they contributed freelyLawyer W. A. 1 dersonville. And a great deal of talk
Smith had the honor of making the leads to an Investigation,
first contribution and his friends know Publicity. Keep everlastingly ad- ;
that Bill Smith is ready always to do a vertising Hendersonville. It talks for ;
most liberal part for Hendersonville " you while you sleep. Use the papers -on
every occasion, ' it is to Bill Smith in telling what you already have and
more than to any other man that Hen. what you expect to have and get right--dersonville
owes hei position as the down to having that. Go right into i
leading, resort of the Western North the heart of the big centers where
Carolina mountains and he was right the tourists come from and use their r
there to start off the community sub- papers In telling them the advantages - I
scription. Almost everyone helped, of Hendersonville." Do it big. People 'I
Just a few tight wads and every town1 in this day like big things, and when I
is cumbered with a few selfish spirits you come down to climate, scenery, It
who want to keep every penny that water, pure air, and hustle Hender-
.they can get their clutches on refused son ville is a big thing for those who t
h Tjut this story has nothing to do wit
j Hendersonville's second community
'tree was such a success that every-
j body agrees that It must be an annual
; the citv hall, unless it were some neart
, bie enough to feel sorrow over its in-
hundreds of poor ones most of whom
they do not even know. They are the
salt of the earth and Hendersonville is
full of such. It makes a feljow feel
;good to know that he can shake hands
with such ral human folks and be
one 0 em .
Below is a . list of the contributors.
Some names may have been omitted.
But there is a record kept by the Clerk
-who makes no mistakes. He has their
names as wen as these for a future
; holiday thatwill be their when tho
King makes up his jewels.
i a balance of $54.85 wa9 Inmed over
J'to the Associated Charities to help re-
j lieve the needy during the long hard
J winter months that are to come,
; Cash contributions to the Communi.
ty Christmas tree;
j . .
j . (Continued on Page 8.) y
To Make, 'Hendersontfle J Famous as1
;r:jaii 'Z'l
. - . Suggestions.
LITTLE THINGS COUJfT.
(By Old Hurrygraph.)
Durham, N., C, Dec. .A headline
question in the French Broad Hustler ;
of December 14th was: "Will Hender- "
sonville" Become Tourist Capital?" 1
answer ,Yes if the proper 'means are y
used. The, Great Creator has done all i
He "could do" for -: Hendersonville, in
beautiful scenery,' healthful air; and
pure wateiv It is for man. to carry on -the
work of . utilizing": the great ad-' '
cantages, - and I letting it be known to' f
the world. How 1 Preparedness, agital-i'
tion. and ipiicity--;,- J.r-v. N
-Preparedness is . being . ready to en
tertain the" guests , in the things they
most delight in. -You have the Caroli. rc
na Terrace, as ; fine ' a' hotel as
any tourist could wish the Park
Hill Hotel, and ; the Kentucky Home,
and good;, boarding, houses in large
numbers to entertain gu6sts. Now go
in for golf links,' tennis courts and all ;
those kinds of -amusements that draw V
and -hold people who are out for pleas- ;
ure. Give them the pleasure and Hen-r
dersonville will not be long arriving at:
the Tourist. Capital" stage.:., Hender--sonville
' has long been in;, a - class -to V
itself in its broad streets ? and -sideV-walks,-,
with; : their beautiful shade -trees,
and Test : places along ' : these -pavements.
- That o Itself has .been a,,
drawing card. ; Now arrange' for other,
things to suit other , tajkes. ? When a
man gives a house, party, or an enter.
itainment to his friends he s very caret
ful to see that all their wants are an
ticipated in -order that they may enjoy
themselves iter the fullest extent, so he
'provides " for their - different whims.
The same policy will work with tour:
ists.' . It is :theonly correct- policy to v-.
pursue to inako Hendersonville a hust
Agitate! Keep thethinlf goings dlet
up early arid talk Hendersonville
; many mure ua auuui khuk. ' euyie
are curious to know ho. they get
'things; how you got their name; and
1 they begin an agitation of the matter.
'This is a little thing, but it tells im."
mensely. Use your town papers by '
. money. But It will be money well
you want. Go after it
But the Hendersonville people know
what to do to make their town the ':
. some.
I read with interest, and a great deal
of pleasure, the letter of Dr. John E.
Ennls, of St. Petersburg, Fla., In your
issue of December 14th. He is agitat
ing right. Thafs good wholesome
stuff he's writing. As a booster, Dr.
Ennis is a good one. In St. Peters
burg he boosts Hendersonville; and in
Hendersonvile he boosts St. Peters
burg. That the kind of men to tie to.
If he will allow me, I would call him
St. Booster of St. Petersburg. But
what has been done can be done again.
He tells you what has been done. 1
believe Hendersonville can outdo that.
That'3 my faith in the good people of
HendersonvilleGod bless 'em, as Tiny
Tim would say, "every one."
Hope you all had a very Merry
Christmas, and are ready, with renew
ed courage, hope and determination,
for a new start in the New Year to
making Hendersonville the Capital for
Tourists. . .
This New Year hint. With the en
tire press of the country clamoring
for cheaper paper; the North Carolina
publishers looking around - with a
(Continued on Page 8.)
?ior tnesunimer 'anatjwinier travel ; "
&thejb:aixsX,f-;T-'"-
t
