's " t S/ ~ s q r'1 I ' ]VA " srI7 :sS ,
VOLUME XXXII. LAURENS, SOUTH CAROL[NA, THURSDAY, DECEMBER 28, 1916
[IIHR BIG PARTY
CAN CONIROL HOUS[
Power In Hands of Six In
dependents.
FIGHT COMES
ON SPEAKERSHIP
Organiiation Steps Will Find All but
Chortle Conditions in Lower Branch
of National Congress. At. Least
Twenty Seats to be Contested.
Washington, Dec. 26.-Revised fig
ures on returns of the last election
'show definitely that neither Demo
crats nor Republicans will have a ma
jority of the next house, necessary to
'ndlpenuients will ,detd1:ntjne whLich
elect a speaker, and that a handful of
side will control the organization.
Conceding seats to candidates in
possession of certificates of election
because they are certain to partici
pate in the organization of the house
the personnel now stands:
Republicans 211, fDemocrats 21:1 In
dependents 2, Progressives 2, Prohi
bitionist 1, Socialist d, contested 2. A
majVrity is 218 hence should either
Democrats or Republicans win both
of the contests they still would be
short a majority.
All of the independents are main
taining strict silence, regarding their
attitude on the speakership, but the
Democratic and Republican leaders
are agreed on how most of them will
vote, provided caucuses are held and
solidarity maintained by the twQ old
parties.
Kelly of Pennsylvania, a Progressive
who formerly was a Democratic mem
ber of the house, is listed as a Den)g
cratic probability. So are Randall
(Prohibitionist) of California whq vot
ed for Speaker Clark the last time,
and London of New York (Socialist)
who sits on the Democratic side now
and has been shown favors by Demo
cratic leaders.
9chall of Minnesota (Progressive),
the leaders agree, probably would
ean towards a Republican candidate
if convinced of his progressivism. He
campaigned for the national Republi
can ticket during the last campaign,
although opposed by the regular or
ganization in the State. Fuller (inde
pendent( of Massachusetts also is
classed as a Republican hope.
Martin of Louisiana (Progressive)
comes from a sugar district in-Loulsi
ana and has indicated that assurances
possession of certificates of eection
will be .his first concern in voting on
the organization. lie formerly was
a Democrat, however, and Democratic
leaders hope to get his vote. At the
same time Republicans think he can
be convinced that their party is, the
only one which has his sugar interests
at heart.
Contests in which certifiates have
not. been issued arcei hnin the Thirty
secondl Pennsylvania oastrict, where
Repreventative hlarchflc'ld ( Rlepbuli
cnn) is contesting the election of Guy
10. (amipbell (Diemocrat) who on the
face or the retur ins won by 416 votes,
anod thie Th'i Ird Newv Jerrsev district.
where TRepresentative Scully' (Dlemo
c-a t is opp~osing the election or
Robehrt C'arisen (RTepublli) . Schully
niow is reportedl to have a lead of 125
votet on thle recoun lt but there still
are a bout :1,000 v'otes to be passed on
b~y the cour't" a't least 20 seats. it
is said, will be contested in the house
atfter it is organized.
JBroadulIs Workman Latndedl in (County
Jail on Acecou~nt oIf the Dheath of his
W1ife.
Broadus Workman, a negro rman
who has been living on Mr. Jf. T. A.
hallew's place near Mountvilie, was
airrted and~ placed~ in the counly jail
yesterdlay charged with! the miurder of
hli wife, who (lied from mnysterious
ca 'isca thle night befoic. Neighbors or
the negr'oes state that Workman creat
ed con31dderable excitement in the
neigh borhiood the nii ght before by hea:it...
ing bila wIfe. Yesterday mornig the
niegr'o woman wvas found1( in bed withi
ma ny br ulaca and contuiionis abot
the body, a~ particularl y lar :ge hole be
in:5~ rif~in.l the womitti' head, Re
lotst inidiciite that WVorkmuan wva
tirunkie lo claimu that his wife died
WILLIAM LEWERS, BOYD
PASSED AWAY YESTERDAY
Fifterai Services will be Held this A&
ternoon at 4 O'clock in the Laurens
Cemetery.
William Lewers Boyd, one of the
oldest and most highly esteemed citi
zens of the town, died at his home
yesterday morning at 6 o'clock, his
passing being gentle and peaceful,
death being due to advanced age. Ho
was 84 years of age last Mlay and for
the past few years of his life had lived
in practical retirement. The funeral
will he held this afternoon at 4 o'clock
at the Laurens cemetery. The servic
es will be conducted by Rev. Robert
Adams, qf Pendleton, in the absence
of Rev. C. F. Rankin who is away foi
the holidays.
Air. Boyd was born and reared in this
county near what is now called lloyd's
Mill, which was named for the Boyd
family. He entered the Confederate
army upon the outbreak of hostjiitles
in 18611, becoming a member of James
lIattalion. lie was given an honorary
discharge, however, on account of iii
health, but during the latter months of
the war he again became a soldier, en
listing in the reserves under Capt.
Level of Newherry, where he was
teaching at the time. After the war
he cane to Laurens and in 1867 was
depot agent here. lie remained in this
position until 1869 when he became a
clerk in Mr. John Kyle's hardware
store. In 1869 he married Miss Mar
garet Anderson, of Spartanburg coun
ty an4 removed to the country for
three years, returning in 1872 and
forming a partnership 'with his broth
er,- James M. Boyd, to take ever the
business of Mr. Kyle who had died.
His brother died some years ago, but
Mr. W, L. Boyd remained in the hard
ware business until a few years ago
when he retired, disposing of his store
to Mr. '1. L. Nash. He also served
one terip as county auditor. Through
out his business career he was known
as a man of the strictest honor and
integrity, being highly regarded by his
associates.
Mr. Boyd was a member of the Pres
byterian church practically throughout
his life. For forty years he was an
elder in the First Presbyteiah church
of this city and during most of that
period was Clerk of Sessions. He was
a man of strong Christian faith and
took much interest in religious mat
ters.
The deceased is survived by his wife
and two daughters, Miss Willou Boyd,
of this city, and Mrs. S. B. Talley, of
Atlanta. He had no other close rela
tives.
BANKS DECLAltE DIVIDENDS.
Local Institutions Rllet Substantial
Financial Conditions b) Usual Divi.
dends,
The banks of the city will make their
usual dividend payments on the 1st of
January, several of the institutions
having already deciared dividends andl
wvrittenl out the e-hecks for' distribu
tion. Thell following are the banks and
trust coimpaies wh'le h have alreadly
ield the annutal mleet ings and voted for
thle uisual disbursements:
Lau renis National Hank, I per ceint
semi-annual on $50,000, amounting to
$2,000;
Enterprise National Bank, 4 per'
cent semii-a nnal Onl $100,000, amioun lt
liig to $1,000;
l'almetdto 1Bank, I per cent semi-an
nIuzal on $50,000, amountinug to $2,000;
Farmiers National hiank, 3 1-2 per
(cnt onl $50,000, amouintiing t) $1,750;
Lau rens Tlrust C~ompan111y, 4 per cent
semi-annual on1 $17,500, amiounltingd "o
$1,900;
The Peoples Loan & Elirhange Bank
has not yet had its annual mueet ing and
lie 1 Iome Trust Compiany does not
make( -disbursements at this periodl of
tho yea r.
New Oficer's to Assume Iuites.
Thle newly elected ofifelabs of ' the
cnunty, S. C. Reidl, for nlheriff, Ri. RI.
Owingau, coroner and WV.' S. Adair,
('n10nty comm i'jioner, will assu me
thir d'ifles Onl Tuesday, Jan. 9th, as
p'ctecribed by Ilaw. Clerk gcf ('ourt
l'oweru and Road Conmmissioner J1. TI.
Trodd, who wvere re-elected, will hien
their seconid termi on the ttante date.
'Tim terms~ of the auditor and-treasurer'
d, not ex(pure until later in the year,
*'olettor Blaecwell will take up his
duitios on the. (bird Tuesday in Janu
Ary, hoinr the 1nth of the month.
WEDI
OF THE Hi
Reid-Smith.
At the home of Mrs. Bettie Reid of
the Oakville section, Miss Porah Reid
and John Casper Smith of Waterloo
were united in marriage Wednesday
afternoon, the ceremony being per
formed by the Rev. R. G. Lee, pastor
of the Baptist church at Waterloo.
000
Sullivan-Segars.
A marriage that cane as a- great sur
prise here was solemnized as Oswego,
in this state, Friday when Miss Kath
leen Sullivan, daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
. A. Sullivan of this city, was mar
ried to Mr. Drock Segars. Mrs. Segars
had been teaching school at Oswego
and there met the man to whom she
was married. The bride is an accon
Wlished young lady and had numerous
fr!uends here Who were intcrested in
her marriage.
000
PoAl'.t iston.
Today at noon, at the home of Mr.
and Mrs. 'T'hos. P. Poole, a few iniles
from the city, their (laughter, Mis;
Mary Frances Poole, will be united in 1
marriage to Dr. William Algienon
Alston, of Hagood, Sumter County, S.
C. The bride-elect is a graduate of
Lander College and a young lady of
n\any accomplishments. She has been
teaching at Hagood. The groom is a
practicing physician of Iagood ' with
a large and growing practice. Wed
ding cards announcing the marriage
were issued last week and a large
number of people are expected to be in
attendance.
0001
Altman-Roper.
Mr. Robert H. Roper and Mr. Law- I
rence Barksdale loft last week for t
Tampa, Fla., where Mr. Roper is to be
married today to Miss Ruth Altman, of
that city. Miss Caroline. Reqer, lad *I
gone down a few days before that and I
Mr. and Mrs. C. H. Roper, the groom's
parents, went down Tuesday. Miss Alt- I
man is a graduate of the Greenville
Female College and is a young lady of F
many attractive qualities. She visited 1
Miss Caroline Roper here for sonic I
time last summer and made numerous
friends during her stay. Mr. Roper in I
a rising young business man of the 1
city, -being connected with the Iau- j
rens Glass Works, of which his father
's president. The young couple will b
take a -wedding trip to various Florida 1
points and return here to make their 1
home next week.
000
Woliff-Mahlon.t
On Saturday, December the 16th,
at half after one o'clock the Chestnut
Ridge church was a scene of loveli
ness, when Miss Lucile Wolff became
the bride of Mr. Lawrence Mahon. The
color scheme of yellow and white was
carried out in the decorations so taste
fully planned by Mrs. John D. W.
WVat.ts and Miss Annefte Craig, of Lan
caster, a schloolmate of tihe bide.
Th'le first of the bridal plarty to enl
for was Mliss Lulcile Cox, who was
ulsheredl to the piano11 by3 Mr. Nesbittf
Mahon. Misses M aron andl Ka therline
l1o0 f. wer'e t~hen es'ortedl by Messr.' .1.
C. and L. C. liarksdale to their pla'ces
near' the pIlano. After taking their
place.s they sweetly sang "A i'er'fec i
Da.y"'. As the wteddmng mlarch was I
sounided Mr. L. C. l13arksdale oin the
rightf. and Mi'. Furma 11111(olemianI i n'
left entoered and too(k thleir mpla~nces at
t'he altar,. following came .\r. Noshiti
Mahon on ther rigt and .\r. .I. ('.
ifarksdale. on the left, forming a seni
circle at tihe atltar. Next (0ame the
dame of hionor, .\rs. .1i o. W. I loltI, of
Laurens, in brown coat suit ,ea rrying
whiite earnations and5 0( fern 113led wit hi'
yellow tulle. The imaid of' honor. .iiss I'
lI arie Wal lace, in b: (wn) (otsu13it and(1
yellow bllouse, carlrying> a hournei (f
ca rnatlonls an.d ferns ti d wha .v''o v
talle entered nex't. Thei' rI.:,beart:',(
little Mtiss Liliaion l hen<, in whhen
thei( bidet on the~ ::r. afht i , to
the allar' whom i!" wa :.' I I'
'Ir oml and1 h:is~ h..i ( ma , Mr i:
::aid by Rev. J1. 11. War-i;h:g:' o: 3;:- C
(ouri, the ih'. 1Incly le' tft. It is.e e I
or'deir.
Tih~e brnide was' 5 mtire inQ br I owni
chiffon brioatdelofhI (contan)it av i h ye Io(w
blouse and( accessries to omat'h. I I'm
bouqluet wvas Kilarney ro*Aes and3 fernil
w~kh white malline. SheO 1is 11h' on1!y
daughtor' of Mr. and,$rs, Gieo. F. Wolf,
)INGS
3LIDAYS
md has for several years taught very
uccessfully in Sullivan township.
Mr. Mahon is a progressive ,young
armor of the Rabun community,
where he will carry his bride after a
!isit to relatives.
Mr. and Mrs. Wolff entertained on
riday night in honor of the bridal
)arty.
The beautiful collection of china,
at glass and silver attested the popu
arity of the young couple. The best
wishes of their friends go with them
o their new hone.
000
Owens-Hiays.
Clinton, Dec. 21 .--On Vednesdav vv
ming at the First Presbyterian hiur1ch
liss Virginia Owens and illr. L. St.('lair
lays were inited in marriage, lUr.
)adlCy .tones otlieiating. The church
was decorated in holly and holly
rrealhs. Preceding the ceremony
here was a half hour of mtuisi( and
everal seleCtions by Mrs..1. P.i.alaiobs,
r., followed by a solo, "Until," by Miss
mmie Hobertson, and "At Dawning"
y Harnie Parrott.
Witi the first strains of .llendels
oln's wedding march the two little
ibbon girls, Frances Glenn of Spar
anburg and Marion Copeland of
linton, came down the side aisles
nd removed the ribbons to open the
vay for the bridal party. Next came
'liss Adele Pitts of Sumter and I. S.
)wens of Abbeville, then Misses May
)wens and Kate Shands, Tommie
ryse and Dr. Sadler; Misses Mary
)wens and ';vie Shands with Christo
iher Adair and John Little, Misses
fary King and Marjorie Spencer with
3rskine Carte" and Spurgeon Stimerel.
lext came the maid of honor, , Miss
ulia Owens, in a gown of Nile green
affeta, carrying a shower bouquet of
nistletoe; then the little ring bearer,
faster Billy Lancaster, of Laurens,
arrying the ring in a large white
ose. Just before the bride came the
wo little flower girls, Misses Flor
nee Bailey and Regina Peake. The
ride came in with her brother, W.
. Owens, of Washington, D. C. Her
irlish loveliness was enhanced by
er dress of georgette satin with real
ace. Her bouquet was of ide
oses with a shower of lillies u, the
'alley. The bride was met at the
ltar by the bridegroom and his be
nan, Ernest W. Carrigan. The
ridesmaids were lovely in dainty
tresses of white net with light green
affeta and carried armfuls of holly
led with white tulle.
Following the ceremony a recep
ion was held at the home of the
ride's parents, about 200 relatives
rnd friends attending. The guests
yore met at the door by the bride and
ridegroom, who ushered them into
he parlor which was beautifully dc
rated, white and green being the ir
omilnating colors. Numbers of white
b'eddling boils, mistletoe and carna
ionis madec the room onie of loveliness.
'he guests thlen entered the back 'fanr:
or in whlichi the presents were dis
layedi. 'Thiis roony was decorated with
lolly, paiinsettIas anmd redl hells, giving
festive gliday aspiet. Delightful
'freCshment~ifs of creamu and Cake were
ervedh to the guie:ts in the diingi~
Oomi, it binImg preisided~ aver lby Air s.
m. .M. Colpeland anmd .\ rs. W. Ii. Owens.
hr. Follow Iing thiis minits a nd Coffer
ver'e ser'ved in th li inmg room, wherei'
issCs l'lizabeth ii(aldwell and( .\lary',
.uith (opehind tied tiny fans of mistlIe
oc anmd ibbon an each guest.
Thle youn zg coupie left oni thle P
'chlc ve'stliuIe far a Nothlern tipI.
hbe bride is tihe daumghler of .\nr. and
ir's. W. E. Owens of this city and is
very' bcaui liful and attractive yoiung
vomla n. The i bidegrm'i is a younig
f the ('lintoni hospita:l. Like his bridle.
it is loiaular andi~ heldi in high esCm!'ii
y' li his fr'ienzds and assoelates.
fmlea, Thonnwe llemiulnap CVuha
'o See a iva no ta) h* )( :11( i'l (n
inl Cioleefor hehliay.
Alls *e Aph . ot !ate
ItOBERiT E. GONZALES
LAID TO tEST
Funeral Servilces ield Yesterday
Morning at Eleven O'('ock in Colum1.
bin.
Columbia, Dec. 26.-All that is mor
tal of Robert Elliott Gonzales, rests in
Elmwood cemetery, the grave hidden
beneath a mound of flowers placed by
loving hands. He sleeps beside his
uncle, the lamented N. G. Gonzales and
a little sister.
The funeral services took place this
morning at 11 o'clock at Trinity Epis
copal church of which lie was a de
voted member. The body arrived late
last night from the border accom
panied ,by Capt. E. 13. Canley, Ser
geant'Crunt Murray, and Sergeant
.James Mclie, intimate and close per
sonal friends of the deceased. 'The
body and escort were Imlet in Spar
Ianbhtrg by a delegation of friends
from1 ('olunhia and on their arrival
here were taken to the homite of his
father on lilbcland street.
Trinity 1 churchi was lilled with irela
tives and friends who were present to
pay their respect on Ite sad occasion.I
As Ihe body approached the clirch
Sehutmaker's hand played the Il 'al
march from Chopinll. The body was es
corted by a ylhttoon frot ('atden
military company of the first regiment
under the coilmtand of a sergeant.
The services were in charge of Rev.
Kirkman G. Findlay, rector of Trin
ity and pastor of the deceased, as
sisted by the Rev. John McSwain,
chaplain of the second South Carolina
regiment, who was home on leave and
who represented the regiment and its
colonel, Holmes H. Springs.
The funeral services at the church
were brief, consisting. of two hymns,
"Lead Kindly Light," and "Abide with
Me", by the choir, and scripture read
ing and prayers from Mr. Finlay.
The funeral procession to the cem
etery -was lead by the band softly
playing Chopin's funeral march. The
Camden military squad escorted the
remains which were followed by a
long line of relatives and friends.
At the grave a double choir of male
voices sang "Peace, Perfect Peace,"
and "America," The burial service was
conducted by the Rev. Mr. Finlay while
Mr. McSwain offered a prayer. The
Camden military squad fired three
volleys over the grave and taps were
sounded by Mr. Tom Lightfoot, him
self a veteran of the Spanish-AmerI
can war.
The grave was literally covered
with a mass of beautiful floral trib
utes which came from friends and or
ganizations of the deceased. The of
ficers of the second regiment sent a
beautiful circular wreath while the
machine gun company had as equal
ly a beautiful wreath. The State Press
Association sent a design, a wreath,
made to resemble a column. A more
beautiful collection of flowers has
rarely ever been seen in C'olumia.
Several newspaper men from varil
ous parts of the state were here for
the funeral.
Ilohert El Ilot t onz'a les was I t t n '
eight years of atgc and was srivin g ats
s'contd Scergeanmt in thle mitachinlie gun i
compan)1iy of thle s(econd fothII 'arol ina
Infantry when lie succombed~i t to an; a
tack of pnleimonla oin Ithe .\lxicant
lorderi, w here I he. regin en t is ntow on
guar'd dutvl. Pior) to his enlistmtent
last .June lie was paragraph wrciter on
the C'olumbcia Slate, whiere ihe inode a
nat ion wide reinlitationt and was ree
ot-iz ed as one of thce moasi 1br iint
you 'lc news~iipper men of the 811 Sout.
lIe wvas a youing manl of many11 talents1
and entgaging cdersonalty 1. llis deathI
wahs mourned1(( by thle tire1 stalt' and
dlrew forithi tiutes 'romt Ieopbi in
every~ wvalk oiif li'. C'olumbctia hcas
The allbee rscc' 'ere aill alssociates,
.lhn .1. cormarkc , .l0e Sparks.; Irian
Iel .lohn c .le no i,.c r y Icn
. I I 'cina .:
'T.: wi~' I l'' 'n alation of
3rnctc':y nicht,i.ba. 1:.t at 7: I 'Iad
Te memian'c'~ are ear'ne:: fly req]uest ed
to bn lnr'ocnt .
FROM TN COUM
News, Letters From Many
Sections.
CORRESPONDENTS
GIVE LOCAL NEWS
Happenings of Interest to Many People
All Over the County and to Those
Who have left the )amiy Hearth.
stone.
Ii('KORY TIAVERIN NEWS.
Ilickory Tavern, Dec. 2&.--The in
dications are that. we are to have rough
weather and conse(luentt had roads.
.Nir-. 'ellie Abercrotuiie is still on
the sick list.
AMr. iDavie Ilitts, of ilberton, (.a., is
v'siling: relatives in this conu::mintitL"
Air. I'lits is larin demonstratu'.
.\r. .Jiimiie L.ee Kellett, o \Woot
r~uff. was in ouir mit4t ITimrsday and
Friday on business.
Quite a large crowd attended tho
box supper here Friday night. Tlho
exercises were good 1nd very near
forty dollars were taken in.
The money will be used for the ben.s
efit of thse school.
The school teachers, Al isies Madgo
and lallie MlcKittrick, have gone to
visit home folks near Ford Shoals and
Miss Mary Rasor noar )onalds.
Among those who are back home
from college are Misses Vera Baldwin
from Winthrop, Corrie Knight from
Lynwood, N. C., ir. Jobn Thomason
and Mr. '3. T. Leopard from Clemson,
Miss Mae Pitts, who is working in
Asheville, N. C., is visiting homefolks
at the present. She brought one of
her friends, Miss Alexander, home
with her. Miss Alexander returned
Tuesday.
Mrs. Welborn is visiting homefo1kg.
in Savannah at the present.
Dr. Welborn spent Sunday night
with his parents at Fountain Inn.
Mr. N. M. Abercronmbie is going to
get over-stocked on Ford cars. He has
two now.
Mr. Milton Sullivan, who Las been
in North Carolina for some time, Is at
home at this writing. .
Mrs. Florence League, and two sons,
Horace and J. C., spent Monday with
Mr. J. M. Sumerel and family.
Rev. Walter Baldwin and family;
spent. Monday with Mr. A. A. Aber
Cromhie.
ir. W. S. Bolt and family spent
Monday with Mrs. J. Rt. Brownlee, of
Dials.
Mr. Frank Buzhardt, who is living in.
Georgia, Is visiting Mr. W. M. Aber
Crotmbie.
An old-fashioned rabbit stew was
held at W. M. Abercrombie's storo
Monday night. All present enjoyed tho
occasion immensely.
.\il-. .1. M. S'mterel and fanly spent
M\i iss 'i the I Htoil. and brtot-ht r, Eric,
arec sp end(in g Qhi isin'ra wit h iatives'
int leltont.
('Ihristmt ta:5 2e's wei If '.'ucht enjoyedI
thte la pti1st Suty~ schtool '%as held in
the (churcht and the onei of the Metro-.
(list SF-tiday school iwas hn ld in I I:e an
Ott last Sunt~hiy afittrnoon at 1h1(0
shilp. The14 10ol1loig oi!(CIr were
Ilolt a 51inpinlg wIill bei hel .at W\atts '
li' is (lrdially ii..ieti.
r 1hr wi hit (riipn t . n
lir. i and 1j's. W.~ 1id. Ilu n Zel Ig
(Continueal on 14rg0 1ight.'i
