$he Pwumeari Jfews
oa
6
6 Largest Circulation of Any $
A I'apcr in Quay County 6
A Advertisers Know Where to
0 Plnee Their Ada
AND TUCUMCARI TIMES
Quy 0uV7
Ml
VOL. XV.
TUCUMCARI, QUAY COUNTY, NEW MEXICO, THURSDAY, DECEMBER 28. 19IG
NO. 11
WASHINGTON SEES
HOPE FOR PEAGE
Washington, Dec. 20. Germany's
reply to President Wllr.on's note Is re
gnrded here ns hnving advanced the
pence movement another step, despite
the fact thnt it disappoints in not
meeting his suggestions for an avow
al of terms.
The reception Germany's reply re
ceives nmong the entente nljios, whose
statesmen hnvc pulilicly dcclnrcd they
were against such n program, now
becomes the point upon which a fur
ther move is hinged. The German
note probably is the prelude to n se
nes or carefully considered delicate
moves in the great game of world
lomncy, all possibly leading to a real
consideration of peace terms on the
grounds which the beligerents may
feel can plnco them at no disadvantage
This is the official view of Germany's
reply so far as it has been formulated
on the bnsis of the unofficial text. The
official copy had not been received to
night nnd President Wilson was keep
ing his mind open.
Ncutrnl diplomatic quarters, too, re-
gnrded the note ns a step toward peace fantry are among the I est of the Nn
and rather leaned to the view thnt Gcr- tional guardsmen now on the border
many might follow it with n eonfiden-1 and that they arc fa? rcnchlng the
tinl communication of some soTt out- efficiency standards of the regular
lining her terms. 1 army, is the opinion of Phil McLnugh-
The views of the entente embassies, ' Hn, representative of .he Associated
frankly expressed, was that the note Press at Columbus, who is in El Paso
wns not an answer to President Wil- for a few tlnys.
son's communication, but rather a doc- "I have observed the . Jew Mexico in
ument for ofTlcinl circulation in Ger- fantry," said Mr. McLai-glin Inst night
many and in ncutrnl countries with "and I huso seen it steadily improve
the object of molding opinion to place from day to day and from month to
the responsibility for continuing the month, until today I I cliove the or
war on the entente. Among the Gcr- gnnizntion is one of the most efficient
manic diplomnts, the only icw ex- units on the border. Regulnr nrmy or
pressed was one of surprise that the ficor.s with whom I hae talked aharo
reply had preceded receipt of the en- this opinion and many of them do not
tentc's response to Germnny's original hesitate to dclare the ew Mexico in
peace proposal on December 12. ( fnntrymen the equal of a similar
It wns everywhere ngreed thnt the I number of regular trocps.
principal sticking point wns the lack' "The New Mexico regiment was the
of a definite statement of terms, such i first to respond to President Wilson'a
ns President Wilson nsked, nnd such j call. One company, that from Dem
os Lloyd George declared the allies , ing, did-not wait for li e call, but ar
would require if they were not to put! rived at Columbus six hours after the
their "heads in a noose with the rope ! Villa raid upon thnt town,
in the hnnds of the Ge -minis." It is I "When the New Mexico regiment
not beyond the realm of diplomacy, ! Hist reached the border, newspaper
however, to find a wny to bridge that correspondents and others criticised
difficulty and Germnny'i failure is not the showing made by the guardsmen,
regarded as n block to the nogotia- nnd this criticism was later, in a mens
tions, although it maker them exceed- e at lcat, justified by the fact that
ingly difficult. the physical cxamina'.'ons made by
Germany's declaration that she re- the regular army surgeons resulted in
gnrds the work of searing the world fully per cent of the soldiers being
ngninst future wars the work to bo j rejected for physical disability,
taken up nftcr the present conflict wn j "Since that time, however, the reg
ended, wns regarded wi h diversity of , imenl has r.teadily improved. Colonel
opinion. tJiuclnls who turned haci: nnd
compared the statement with the mes
sage of President Wilson did not find
the two out of hnrmony, nor in dis
agreement with the president's public
utterances on a world league to pre
serve pence; yet there was an indefin
able opinion abroad in officinl quarters
that the ending of the wnr nnd the
safeguarding of pence of tho future
wore a joint problem so inseparable
that one depended upon tho other.
Those taking this view referred to
Lloyd George's declaration thnt the
allies would consider it possible to en
ter a conference only if Germany
would first openly offer reparation,
restitution and jjlarantces.
HAZEL McDARIS ALLEN
Little Hazel Allen, the adopted
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Freeman
Allen, nnd the pride of their home, de
parted this life Sundny, Dec. 21, after
an illness of short duration from men
ingitis. About two weeks before her death
she was taken sick with kidney trouble
which turned into meningitis. For
several days her condition had been
quito critical nnd if she had recovered
physicully she would have remained
a cripple. This fact made no differ
ence with Mr. and Mrs. Allen and they
did nil in their power to save the lit
tle girl's life, l;ut not until Sundtiy
morning when she died did nil hope
vnnirh.
Hazel was 12 years of age nnd the
daughter of Roc McDaris of Quay.
Her mother preceded her some years
ago and she was taken into tho home
of Mr. and Mrs. Allen, where she was
loved and cherished as though she hud
been their own child. Sho hud many
little playmates nnd life was pleasant
in every respect, but fate decreed she
was needed elsewhere and the nngcl
of death took her from this earthly
tabernacle to tho cvorlnsting home.
The bereaved hnvo tho sympathy of
all and it is hoped they will be com
forted to know thnt Little Hnzol will
not be caused to suffer tho pangs that
sho would hnvo perhaps incurred by
that dreadful disease, had sho been
saved from death only to bo left n
cripple.
Funeral services were conducted on
Tuesday morning from the residence
on Gaynell avenue, and tho little body
was taken to the cemetery near Quay
and placed bcsldo the mother, there
to await tho resurrection morn.
It's easy to bo patient when you
have nothing at stake.
COUNTY SUPT. PACK IS AP
POINTED CHIEF CLERK
County School Sururintcndent K.
Pack of this clly has been appointed
chief clerk in the sUi e superintend
ent's office at Santa Ff. He is selling
his goods and stock preparatory to
moving to the state capital.
, Mr. Puck's ability las been recog
nized by Mr. Wagner, the new state
superintendent, therefore he was ten
dered this appointment. At first ho
hesitated, but later ; ccepted. His
many friends here are sorry to lose
him as a citizen and were in hopes
lie would again go jnto business In
Tueumcnri, but they lire glnd to sec
him secure this positic i nnd know he
will fill it with honor n-iil efficiency.
The Santa Fe Record has this .o
say of the appolntmen' :
"County Supcrintend-nit E. Pnck, of
Tuciunrnri, who goes it of office the
nst of the month, has boon appointed
chief clerk in the department of edu
cation by hupcrintcntn nt elect .1. 11.
dip-.Wagner. Mr. Pack, a hough he hold
(the post of county suticrintcndont In
the strongly democratic county or
Quay, is a republican and while nt
Santa Fe recently, du'ing the cduca-
lionnl convention, mnile many friends."
I ICfllf'H'ri.'ll IMM.'CC MAM
LIKES NEW MEX. TROOPS
El Paso, Dec. 125. Tint the officers
and men of the First ew Mexico in-
i" u- "i eoiiiiiiiuu, umjur ,
Iluppe nnd other officer! have worked
unccaringly to recruit and bring the
regiment up to u high r. undard nnd to
uphold the honor of their stntc. Thnt
they have succeeded ir their task is
the unanimous opinion of tho regular
army officers on duty at Columbus.
"Recently the New Msxico regiment
has been attached to tuc punitive ex
pedition, being the only national guard
regiment directly under commund of
Major General Pernhiiu and it is now
doing n considerable sh ire of the out
post duty and guard duty about the
base of communication.".
"Another honor whic'i hns fnllcn to
the lot of the New Mcx enns is the se
lection of several of their officers to
commnnd truck train running be
tween Columbus nnd th headquarters
of the punitive expediton in Mexico,
Captain Arthur Brock and Lieuten
ant Frant Nowkirk bei ig recently as
signed to this rcsponsil le work.
"Tho New Mcxicnn regiment, like
the various units of the nntinnnl guard
is made up of men fron nil walks of
life. Included in its ranks are farm
er;;, bankers, clerks, Merchants, me
chanics, cattlemen, mi'-ers nnd not a
few cowboys. Inciden'ally, it is the
only regiment on the border that now
bonsts of men of Sp: nish-Amcncnn
origin, nnd though there is considcr-
nhly healthy rivalry between these
nnd what might bo cnl cd tho regular
Americans, it is a rival y for efficiency
nnd works well in br'nging out the
best there is in loth classes of sol
diers. "Altogether Colonel Abbott has rea
son to bo proud of hi men nnd the
state of New Mexico is to be congrat
ulated upon raising one of tho best
guard regiments now in the service
of Uncle Sam."
DUNLAP CAPPS
Miss Thelma H. Cupps, daughter
of Mr. nnd Mrs. A. R. CupiM, of Quny,
N. M was united in mrriingo with Mr
Charles Dunlnp of tho tame place, Inst
Saturday, Dec. 23. The ceremony was
reformed in Tueumcnri bj tho Rap
list minister, Rev. A. L. Mnddox.
Tho young couple will mnko their fu-
luro homo on u farm near Quny and
their hosts of friends wish them a
hnppy journey through life. In tho
words of Rip Van Winkle, "May they
live long and prosper."
H. II. Miller was in from Quny toduy
and whllo in town ho dropped in tho
News offico long enough to push his
subscription up two more years.
DE
WILL GOME HOME TO
BE
,1
Los Angeles, Dec. 20. It became
known today thnt Gov rnor-clect K. ('.
de llaca, of New Mexic , who has been
nt the Santn Fc Coast Lines hospital,
since shortly nftor the recent election,
recuperating from u brrnkdowyi oc
casioned by tho strain rf the campaign
In which he was cho? n chief execu
tive, will leave for Ni w Mnxico ne::t
Thursday, the time m his depnrturo
depending on the abil .y to get suit
able sleeping ear rose' .'ationn.
Several days ago D . .). A. Masaie,
of Santn Fe, ono of tin leading physi
cians of the New Mcv co capital and
the medical adviser of the Into Judge
William 11. Pope, who died fiom the
Fame disease wiMi whi h Mr. de Uaea
is said to bo suffering at rived in Los
Angeles for the purpo of consulting
1
J
j
with tho hospital nut! tntics regaid-
ing Governor-elect de i'aca's case. Dr.
Massic will nceompntr Mr. do Haca
on the return trip to N -w Mexico.
It is not known whether the gov
ernor-elect will go fir t to Ids home
in East Lns Vegas or - .-11 proceed di
rectly to Santn Fe. H:- term of office
ns governor will begin an New Year'
day, which is next Mo iday, and it is i
his intention to bo in the capitnl nt
that time to toko the ith of office.
Mr. do Haca decla- s that ho Is
greatly improved in h alth and does
not entertain uny fear of u phyrieal
breakdown r.ftcr cntc ing upon the
strenuous duties of his offico.
AARON HOGGS MAI ES GOOD
RIG CROWD IS SATISFIED
Anron Hoggs, the hi h school com
edy given by the students of the High
School assited by two f rmcr students,
last Thursday night t the Opera
House, was one of the best homo tal
ent if not tho best c or produced in
Tueumcnri. This is sayi.'g n great deal
becaiiFC Tueumcnri is noted for its
tnlent nlong theatrical linos nnd it is
expected to be first clns
Every member of th j east did ex
ceptionally nnd thoFe ticked to lend
did their parts in a prt 'c?nional man
ner. The play wan qu.-o lengthy but
the crowd did not can nnd many of
those present wished f .r another net.
It was thought by t iosc in charge
that they would r.tugc t' e play at San
ta Rosa sometime in tie near future,
iut it was nftc rward learned that
there was no stage la -ge enough to
produce trfo piny ns it should bo so
this trip has been im efinitely post
poned. lho receipts were mist gratifying
to tho management nnd they are most
thankful for the patn iage accorded
tho play.
HENRY KUHLMAN J
USTAINS
:C TUESDAY
returning to
ins drain Co.,
nry Kuhlm.-.n
.in street und
ight leg under
was tr.ken off
found that hi."
d in front ol
oi e the turret
thu water hni'
layer of u-u.
and could nut
surface.
?n to his home
'lore ever i.iticc
he is getting
be expected.
A BROKEN hi
Tuesday night whib
his home from tho On'
the burro, on which I
wus riding, fell on .V
caught Mr. Kuhmnn's
him. When the animn'
of Mr. Kulilmnn it was
leg wns binkeu.
Tho accident happei
II. Goodman's store, w!
hail been sprinkled ami
frozen making a heat
Tho burro was not rho
stand up on this flick
Mr. Kiihlmun wns tul
nnd ha1' been confined :
but it is reported tint,
along us well as could
U. S.
ARBITRATION HOARD
GRANTS EIGIU'-HOl'lt DAY
New York. Dee. 2 The .H-hour
day with straight pro rata time for
overtime is granted to he .Sw.ul.meii
union by the federal ni-' itratinn board
in a dcei.'ion today in t o Switchmen'.-
controversy with the .lili-onds. The
award gives an mcren- or : cents per
hour for both foreman anil helpers.
"This decision in t' Switchmen's
controver. y with the i ilro:id hns ar
important bearing upo. the Adamson
law." it was stated lit e today by an
nffirinl Kiinl:i uiiiin for .hit tmnfuninrt-
committee of manage! of the rail
roads.
"It does not O. K. tl Adamson net
in our opinion. The Adnmson legis
lation gave tho men lti hours' pay for
jiirht hours' of work, or an increase
of about 2Ii per cent 'i wagon. The
nwnrd today gives the .'witchmcn only
nino hours' pay for ight hours of
work or between l.'l am' 10 per cent in
crensed wagon. Wo t, t n gr&it ileal
of satisfaction out of this award."
John E. Whitmore, while scuffling
with Mr. Fons one tiny last week sus
tained a broken ankle und hns been
confined to his home over since. It
is not known just how tho accident
happened but just like two boys they
were excited nnd when tho largo bone
in the right nnklo broke thoy both fell
nnd Mr. Whitmore know his little
play had cost him considerable. lie
has sufTcrcd quite a little nnd it will
bo several days before ho will bo able
to be out nnd nround without tho use
of his crutches.
111. 0. GALLAHER DIES
AFTER Hi BRAVE
FIGHT KITH THE T. B.
W. D. Gallahcr, who c'amo here sev
eral years ngo, from S-indorsvillc, Gn.,
ufiering fiom that diead disease, tu
berculosis, died Tuosdry morning, nnd
the body wns shipped 'o his old homo
for burial, leaving here Thursday morn
ing.
When Mr. Gallahcr first enme here
about three years age, he secured a
lent and other nppratJ.s und camped
on tho Eager ranch m.rthonst of Tu
cumeari. Ho improvud in health and
wns not content to retain idle so ho
went into business, firt in tho whole
nile produce business, then he pur
based the coal busino of Wm.Troup.
He wns a splendid hit incss man und
made mnny friends nltbough his health
wa'i bad nt all times. He would have
back-tict't and then ml! .', return to his
work only to hhvo nnother backset and
lose tho ntrength ho h xl gained while
resting nt home. Ho rail a wife nnd
two children back in G'orgin but they
would not come to New Mexico to slay
with him. Ho was homesick nnd lone
some most of the timi when he wns
not working nnd this ?nded to cau'c
him to lose nil the s -ength he had
ever gained. Mr. Gi Maher made a
brave fight for life n ul would have
won, under different conditions.
His mnny friends l; iew of his re
cent sicknens nnd of h's supposed re
covery. He returned to his work on
Wcdnosdny nnd continued to stay nt
tho office most of the into until Sat
urday. He wns unable to get the eonl
he ordered from tho nvnes on nccount
of tho confiscation of s'.me by the mil
rnnils. This worried lilm riuttn n little.
and his customers could not under-1
-tnnd why they could not buy coal.
Tliii together with his weakened con-1
dition nrc said to hnvo been too much
for him nnd the end came to his re
lief Tuesday morning.
His folks were telegraphed nnd nsk
ed what to do with the body. No an
iwor "'mo from his wKe for two days
and it was lenrned Inter that she was
visiting nt Afton, Vn. A brother in
Florida tplcgrnphcd to prepare the
body for shipment and hold until his
wife was heard from. Late Wednes
day word was received to ship the body
to Sandersville, Gn., and it was sent
out on tho first train.
SALE UROS. STUDIO INSTALL
MODERN "NORTHERN LIGHT"
Solo Brothers Studio has lati-ly in
stalled u modern "Nt.rthcrn Light"
machine which is said 'o be the moit
powerful artificial light made. It is
nt'dl, the body stnmbng only i:i'i
inches high nnd tho complete light in-
eluding the reflector weighs but M'.i
poitniK yet this wonderful little outfit
"roduces n white light of 15,000 can-
He-power, strong enoiifh to permit of
the very fastest exposures possible.
The top nnd bottom end plates nre
foil' truetod entirely of asbestos. Tho
weight of the Northern Light is there
ore greatly reduced be ides rendering
'he light absolutely safe in every re
spect. Mr. Snle is now equiprod to do work
after night ns well as in the day t'me.
Cloudy weather has no horrors for
this studio. Patrons choose pictures
made by this light in preference to
those made by daylight.
Mr. Sale is nnxious to demonstrate
this now machine nnd will npprecinte
vnur visit to see it in operation. He
knows photography from A to , nnd
with this new equipment he will not
be handicapped in the least.
NET PROFITS OF RAILROADS
BEAT ALL FORMER RECORDS
Washington, Dec. 2 . More than
one liliinn dollars net ii.cnmc from op
erations wns made by ihe railroads of
i he country during the year now clos
ing. The huge total Is tho peak of
prosperity in railroad operations, nnd
stands more than or .third higher
than the total of 101-1, hitherto the
banner year.
Statistics gathered by the Interstate
Commerce commission, complete for
nine months, and mad- the basis for
calculation for the en ire year, indi
cate that the total net income from
nocrntlonH will bo npp -oximateiy 1,
.1118.0110,000. For tho fi-st nine months
of tho yenr complete returns show
78r.r)58,2G(S. Even uV does not rep
resent the full nniount us roads whose
income Is less than $1,.)00,000 nre not
included.
TWO PASSENGERS LOSE
BELONGINGS ON TRAIN
The following item was clipped from
Monday's El Paso Times:
"Two passengers on nn El Paso &
Southwestern train en route to San
Diego, CaJIf., from Tucumeari, N. M.,
were robbed of their vnhmbles whllo on
tho train. A. R. A. Jolly of Sun Diego
I reported tlio tneft or n suit case con
I tabling two pistols, a diamond stick
j pin, a snck of old coins nnd n qunn
, tity of clothing. Mary E. Reed of San
'Diego, Calif., lost several silk dresses,
'some jewelry and some valuable deeds
und abstracts."
RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE
STATU TAX COMMISSION
That n more adequate and complete
ns.ses.iing system is nrcesrary in this
state in order to pi-cure u proper valu
ation nnd iisserMncnt. In thin connec
tion we might ntate that the only
method of ccuring u proper assess
ment is to have nctunl visitation and
inspection by the nssossnrs.
Ijirger power should be vested in
the Tax Commission ever the assess
ment nnd collection of taxes, and the
making of county und i lunlcipnl levies.
Some definite plan of estimating ex
pense and expenditure . in advance for
the fb.cal year, should bo mude com
pulsory on the local ofuciuls, or in oth
er wordu, we believe th.tt u budget sys
tem should be adopted.
Ambiguities and conflicting provi
sions of present laws hhould he cor
rected nnd a codification of our school
tax It) .va rnnde.
Some method should bo provided for
clearing up our rolls of back taxes,
either by fulc, compromise or rebate,
anil in the event of compromise or re
bate, the Tux Commi-sion should be
made a party and no compromise or re
bate allowed without its consent.
That it would be a matter of great
economy and efficiency if the office or
Traveling Auditor were placed with
tho Tax Commission, to that the Tux
Commission would hne tho supervi
sion nnd control of the Traveling Au
ditor. That the Tax Comm'ssion has been
seriously hnmpeicd since its orguni
r.ution by lack of funds nnd it is the
opinion of tho Commis ion that in or
der to carry on the work, the present
appropriation should be at least doub
led. CHAMPION HEAVYWEIGHT
TANGOER OF THE WORLD
Hughey Mnck. the heavyweight
comedian of the Vitng -nph Company,
is now an ardent, tango fiend, ns the
result of his training to appear in the
Blue Ribbon feature, "A Night Out,"
recently released. Hughey was told
by his director that he would hnve to
exhibit terpsicoronn ability in order
to faithfully portray the role of Jeff
Dorgan, a propi-etor of a notorious
cafe. Up to thi. time, tho two-step
and tho waltz htrl been the bes that
Hughey could do. Hut game 'to the
core he engaged the sen-ices of a pro
fessional (lancer, who taught him thv
rudiments of the Argrntine tango.
As seen in "A Night Out," Hughey
will never have lovin- cups forced
upon him for succopsfu ly rivaling the
Castles. lie find.? hint-elf to unbend
at the waist for his waist has long
since disappeared.
"A Night Out" features May Rob
son nnd is a wholeso-ne comedy in
five hat.py reels. It w 11 be shown nt
the Ma-onic Opcr-.i House next Sat
urdny night, Dec. .'!().
PUTTING ON GRAVEL ROOF
Work on the new hotel is progress
ing fine, the tar nnd t ravel roof be
ing put on this week. With the build
ing entirely enclosed, vork can pro
ceed regardless of weather conditions.
Glenrio Tribune Progress.
The above item throws some light
on the movement of g-nvel nnd wind
through Tueumcnri the past few days.
Saturday it looke I like all tho gravel
and sand in the west pr-t of the coun
ty was being moved tl. rough Tueum--ati
or -omf point in t ie cast. Mon
day was another grave' nnd sand day
und Tuesday some more passed this
city. That hotel at Glenrio must be
a "whoppar" if it takes nil the sand
anil gravel in the county to cover it.
It is hoped that if they need any more
up that way they will u-ie the railroad
and not trust to the elements to carry
it as quite a lot of it as left here in
places that can do very well without
it.
UNION GARAGE WILL MOVE
On next Monday the Union Gnrage
will move all of its belongings, con
sisting of tires, tubes, gasoline, oils,
nnd all kind of ncces ories to Main
street to tho building formerly occu
pied by the Sun Printing Co.. one door
ent of the Elk Drug S ore.
Mr. Montgomery has sold his shop
tools and leaed the old building to J.
B. Smith. This building hereafter will
bo known ns The Tucumeari Garage
and Mr. Montgomery's new plnco on
Mnin street will still hold its "Union
Gnrage" name. Mr. Montgomery re
spectfully usks nil of h's old custom
ers nnd the enr owners in general to
cnll on him nt his new place on Main
street.
GRADUATING EXEKCISES OF
TEACHERS TRAINING CLASS
at the First Baptist church, Tucum
eari, New Mexico, Dee. .11, 1910:
Doxology by congregation.
Invocation by tho pastor.
Song (117) tho Lord's Day.
Baccnlaurcato sermon by Rev. E.
B. Atwood, of Albuquerque.
Song by tho choir (2.T) Praise ye the
Lord.
Awarding diplomas by C. Ross
Payne.
Song (!I77) congregution.
Exercises commence promptly at 11
o'clock. Everybody invited.
Whnt a self-mado man needs is a
wife who can polish the rough spots
and muke him acceptable,
CONGRESSMAN W. B.
E LOOK
P. M. JOB
W. li. Walton, our newly elected con
gressman, was here Saturday in the
interest of the local postmastorship.
He arrived unannounced to most of
the Democrats. The day wus spent in
tho Vorenborg and in the several of
fices of the lccnl Democrats.
There tire several candidates who
arc quite anxious to land this little
plum, hut from what is learned since
Mr. Wulton's visit, the number of eli-
jgiblos have been sifted down to three
'und perhnps two. It is not yet known
who Mr. Walton decided should huve
the appointment, but he no doubt bus
a fnir idea of who should be the man
nnd the appointment will be made in
due time.
"YATES FRAZIER
Prof. E. M. Votes nnd Miss Mildred
Fruzier, both tenchers in the local pub
lic schools, wore married ut the home
of Mr. and Mi s. W. F. Kirby, on south
2nd street Wednesday evening ut G:."10
o'clock by Rev. E. D. Lewis of the Cen
ter street Methodist church, before n
few witnesses, Mr nnd Mrs. W. F. Kir
by and Miss Gcorgin Gardner.
While thu mnny friends of tho con
tracting parties hnvc been expecting
this murringe it wns not known when
or where it would occur, thus they
stole a march on their friends und tho
ceremony was performed with out a
charivari party being even thought of.
They will continue to teach in the de
partments now being under their su
pervision, and will continue to make
their home in Tucumeari until thu end
of tho present school year.
The New3 joins the many friends in
extending congratulations.
J AM RESOLVED
Who doen not make resolutions
nnd break them? The beginning of
a new year is ever a favorite time
for "swearing off" and kindred other
"stunts." Because of tho reason and
thc""icnd6ncy" "or human nnture, the
subject for Sundny night nt the Chris
tian church will be "I am Resolved."
The religious and the irreligious, the
saint nnd tho sinner, the democratic
nristrocratie and plutocratic, the old
the young, the rich, the poor, the
white, the blnr'c, men women nnd chil
dren will find something of value In
this. You arc most cordially invited
to nttend.
In the morning the general theme
of n Christinn's duty in giving will bo
discussed under tho subject "A Gift or
a Tip? It is good to carefully consid
er this subject occasionally, so let us
have a large attendance.
In the nuto race the Buick took the
lend ngain Inst Sunday by the small
margin of ,1G miles, P.uiek 0210. Ford
0183. Both cars arc now on the home
stretch, so lot us bu up nnd doing.
NOP.RIS .1. RKASONER.
Minister.
JORDAN ITEMS
The Xmns tree nnd program at Jor
dan was u grand success and every
body enjoyed themselves.
Mrs. Johnson nnd duughter, little
Mosselle, of Tucumeari spent Xmns
with Mrs. Waltenbarger.
Rev. G. F. C. Fons and wife of Tu
cumeari, spent Xmns with J. W. Kel-
say.
Mrs. S. A. Wells has been on the
sick list for several days.
Master Col. llurdcn hns been con
fined to his bed on account of throat
trouble.
E. Hardin, wife and baby are spend
ing the holidays with homo folks.
Jack Fish, W. G. Winninghnm, W.
H. Surrat and Ernest Hall made a trip
to town last week.
Mr. Mustgroves and Mr. Montgom
ery made a trip to town last week in
Mr. Montgomery's new tin Henry.
We were vHtcd Saturday by jte of
the worst wind nnd snnd storms that
was ever known in this part of tho
county. Some of thu formers tried
to float their farms over east of the
Texas line.
J. O. Jordan went to town Saturday
in his tin Henry after some Xmas
goods, but got stuck in snnd nt tho
river, and did not return until Sun
tluy. Jim it pays to not load to heavy.
Ernest Hall and family took Xmas
dinner with Mr. nnd Mrs. John Har
den. W. G. Winninghnm made n trip to
Mclroso this week.
Mr. Montgomery nnd family and
Ernest E. Hnll und fnmily culled on
Mr. and Mrs. S. A. Wells Sundny
evening.
Mr. nnd Mrs. Henry Dobbs and Mrs
Wnttenbnrger made a trip to Tucum
eari last week.
Miss Lena Wattenbnrger who is at
tending school in Tucumeari, is now
spending tho holidays at home.
Mrs. Minnio Cooper of Oklahoma.
City is visiting her brother, Dan Brown
Wo wish tho News and its editor a
Merry Christmas and a Hnppy Now
Year. Whiskers.
It is paradoxial, but when a man
is bested he is worsted.
