THE PICKENS SENTIl
PUBLISHED WEEKLY OFFICIAL PAPEY SUSIPTION PRICE ONE DOLLAR PER EA
Established 1871-Volume 46 PICKENS, S. C, DECE.lII;EIj 28, Nub
IN MEMORIUM
Elizabeth Bowen
For a child to be universally mourned
she must have been beloved by all who
had known her. The heads of all who
knew her were bowed in genuine grief,
the hearts of all who loved her were
wrun wth unutterable sorrow when
they learrqed that little golden-haired,
blue-eyed Elizabeth, daughter of R.
Edward and Mary E. Bowen, had fallen
into everlasting slumber.
On Tuesday evening, for the first
time in her life, she was touched by the
hind of disease, and on Saturday morn
ing, when the sun flooded the hills with
the golden light of day and the winds
brought the first cold blast of winter,
her drooping eyes were closed for the
last time, and her soul, with the spirit
of the last flowers of autumn, passed
into the Gieat Beyond. Yesterday, a
perfect Sabbath and a perfect day, we
who loved her laid the little body of her
to rest at Liberty in view of the spot
where, five years before in September
past, her body and spirit first blossomed
into our hearts and lives. We laid her
to rest, and Nature, in whose arms she
sleeps, in the silent hours of the night,
while the world slept and the angels
watched, silently and tenderly drew a
soft blanket of downy white about her
and kissed her into blissful dreams of
Heaven. As we watch the drifting
snow we can but think that it is a trib
ute of Jove from Nature, typiflying the
purity and holiness of this angel child.
Her soul is released from the fetters
of clay. It is not given us to know
why she was taken, but surely the Mas
ter has some mission in the Vast Un
known for her spirit to perform which
she could not accomplish while im
prisoned in the flesh. -
James Earle Hagood
Ruling Elder James Earle Hagood was
born at Old Pickens on April 23, 1859.
His parents were' James Earle Hagood,
Sr., and Esther Robinson, his wife. His
father was clerk of the District Court
of Pickens, which then included the
territory now known as Oconee county
afid Pickens county.
In 1873 his father removed from thr
Piedmont region to- Charleston, taking
his family, and they resided there until
1903, when they returned to the present
county seat of Pickens county. In 1893
James Earle Hagood, Jr., made his
home in Easley, S. C., where he lived
until his death on the 13th of November,
1916. He made a profession of his faith
in our Lord Jesus Christ in his early
manhood in Charleston and was received
into the Methodist Episcopal church,
South. In December, 1889, he was re
ceived by letter into the Presbyterian
church at Pickens court house, and on
October 8, 1893, he was received by
letter into the communion of the Pres
byterian church at Easley, S. C. On
September 22, 1890, he was elected to
the eldership of the Easley church. and
was ordained December 3 of the same
year. Foi' a number of years he was
superintendent of the Sunday school.
On September 4, 1895, he was mar
ried to Miss Dora Folger. He is sur
vived by his widow and one son, Ben F.
Hagood. Mr. Hagood wvas greatly be
loved, not only by the inner circle of
his family and relatives, but by a large
circle of friends. He had qualities that
made him popular with all who kgw
him. In 1910, in the city of Greenville,
he was, stricken with paralysis and his
- ~> "~gih has stealthily and steadily
die~ned until lie was finally called into
rest November 18, 1916.
Mr. Hagood loved the church. R arely
was his place vacant at any service to
the-very last, attd in recordling the deep
eense of our loss the session places on
record with pr~ofound confidence its well
founded hope that he is now entering
with fuller joy into the servicesof the
church triumphant.
By order of the session.
'C. D. WALLER, Moderator.
W. M. HAGOOD, Clerk.
Honor.Roll Dayton School
{Following is the honor roll of D~ayton
.school for the month of'December:
*First Grade-Queenio Burrus, Rema
Burrus, Elizabeth Couch.
Second Grade-Ruth Couch.
Third Grade-Lola Tompkins, May
Tanner, Clarence Tompkins, Carl Tan-'
ner.
Foutrth Grade- Bessie Burrus, Bertha
Burrus.
*Fifth Grade-Roy Burrus, Priscilla
Findley, Clyde Tompkins.
Sixth Grade-Willie Burrus.
Seventh Grade-True Tompkins, Del
la'Thompson.
* Elghth Grade-Vernon Leslie.
ADA H. MILLER, Principal.
GER'tRUJDE FOSTER, Assistant.
MR. MILLER AND MR. EVANS
Joel H.Miller and John Gary Evans
Exchange Spicy Letters .
John Gary Evans, chairman of the
state democratic executive committee
of South Carolina, recently wrote a let
ter to Joel H. Miller of Easley, in re
ply to a newspaper article by Mr. Mil
ler. Mr. Evans requested that his let
ter be made public. In accordance with
Evans' request, Mr. Miller has given
the whole correspondence to the press,
and it makes spicy reading, in addition
to presenting a review of the action of
the state democratic executive commit
tee in refusing a hearing on the charges
of fraud which were offered in connec
tion with the recent primary.
The correspondence, which, as is
shown by Mr. Evans' letter, is publish
ed in accordance with his request is as
follows:
Easley, S. C.. Nov. 16, 1916.
Hon. .no. Gary Evans, So-Called Chair
man State Democratic Executive
Committee, Spartanburg, S. C.
Sir-I have your letter of November
"'L", which, I presume, means 11. I
quote your letter in full, because I ex
pect to turn my letter over to the press
for publication, as suggested in your
letter, and in this manner the record
will be complete. You address me as
follows:
"Mr. Joel Miller, Easley, S, C.:
My dear Mr. Miller- My attention has
been directed to an article published by
you in The Anderson Tribune, entitled
'Card From Mr. Miller.'
"In this article you state: 'I have
investigated this question with many
others from the different counties of the
state. What (lid we last see to our sur
prise?' 'That there were about 1,500
sworn complaints toat came before the
state executive committee to be inves
tigated.' What did they do? I will tell
you what happened and what we did.'
"In the first place, when the chair
man of the state committee moved for
a protest and contest in the election for
governor, not a single voice was raised,
not a sworn complaint was presented,
not a single affidavit or any other com
plaint, verbal or written, was presented
upon which the state committee could
take any action. On the contrary, Mr.
Ritchie signed the report presented by
the sub-committee to the general com
mittee in which it was declared that
Mr. Manning had been nominated by
the democratic primary. Mr. Ritchie
stated that when the-question was pre
sented that he could not vote for it for
the reason that he had seen evidence of
improper practices used in the election.
He did not produce any evidence at this
time upon which the committee could
act, and the question being upon the
adoption of the report, the chairman
ruled it out of order and any otherques
tion that had not been properly present
ed. The chairman further ruled that if
Mr. Ritchie desired he could give his
reason for not supporting the resolution.
The resolution was adopted and neither
Mr. Blease nor any friend of his on the
committee ever offered any evidence of
fraud upon which the committee could
act.
"I believe that you are honest asnd
mean to do what is right, but I am sat.
isfied that you have been deceived as to
the truth of this matter. I am sure
that if you had informed yourself, in
stead of blaming the committee you will
condemin Mr. Blease and his so-called
friends who have triedl to deceive you
and other honest men of this state as to
the truth of the facts in this matter. I
hope you wvill correct your statements,
as there is no foundation for them, anid
in justice to the committee you will
make this letter public.
"With best regards,
"Yours very truly,
"JNO. GARtY 1VANS."
In reply to your letter', I beg to say
that you most assuredly misstate the
facts, but I am not surprised at that.
rhe truth of the matter, as you know,
is as follows:
Six members of the state democratic
3xecutive c9mmittee voted as a protest
against the nomination of Mr. Manning.
The statement submitted by Mr. Ritchie
was the statement of all six of these
gentlemen, and reads in part as fol
tows-and I quote from the Columbia
State, which dlenounced you in 1896 as
bitterly as ever man was dlenounced,
but which seems to be your spokesman
now.
In the Columbia State of Wednesday
morning, September 20, 1916, itls stated:
"'When the committee reported, Mr.
Ritchie said that he had signed the re
port, but could not vote for its adoption.
Hie read a statement alleging, on in
formation andl belief, the use of whis
key and money in favor of Mr. Man
ning. .Six members voted against do
elating Mr. Manning the numinee. . .
.Those voting against the adoption
members from Anderson, Clarend9n,
Laurens, Newberry, Union and York.
In the statement read by Mr. Ritchie
-and I quote again from the Columbia
State-it was stated:
"I take it that no democrat would
want to take his nomination if a great
majority of the electorate should hon
estly believe that he was takinga taint
cd nomination. I have here affidavits
and letters from different parts of the
state, from men of unquestioned integ
rity, which set forth that money, whis
key, coercion and intimidation were
used in the primary election held on the
12th day of this month, and in several
instances that names were placed on the
club rolls on the day of the primary,
and that boxes were opened before the
time provided by law so that a number
of men might vote and that ballots were
fraudulently changed in order to bring
about Mr. Manning's nomination for
governor, These affidavits and letters
are here in the original and will be read
to the committee if it so desires; and
every mail brings additional evidence of
the same character. "
Those affidavits were in yourcommit
tee room in the possession of those six
members, and this statement of Mr.
Ritchie's, which was adopted by the
other members of the committee which
formed the minority of six, offered this
proof to your committee, as is shown
by the facts, and your committee, or a
majority thereof, refused to receive it.
I repeat-these affidavits and letters
and telegrams, to the number of more
than 1,400, were in the committeeroom
at the time, in possession of these six
committeemen, and were offered to your
committee, and refused to receive them
or to hear them read in your presence,
and you as state chairman ruled out all
references to them.
Notwithstanding the fact that even
the Columbia State says there were
charges of fraud, you say that nothing
was presented upon which the state
committee could take any action. Cer
tainly not. You and your cro wd would
not have taken action bgainst Manning
if our Savior had been present and said
there was fraud. Of course Mr. Blease
has never offered any evidence of fraud
because he has sense enough to know
that, no matter h6w strong a case you
might make out, you and your crowd
would have. decided against hi,. Your
actions heretofore had shown that, and
why should he go before your commit
tee when he knew that it would be a
whitewash, and that you all would hold
up your hands and holler "Oh yes, we
have investigated the matter and there
is no fraud."
You were afraid of it and you dodged
it. So be a man and acknowiedge it.
You say that you believe I am honest
and mean to do what is right. I thank
you and regret that I can not return
the compliment. You may be honest,
and you may mean to do what is right,
but your humble servant is convinced to
the contrary. As matter of fact, I pre
fer to believe your Columbia State of
1896 in regard to you than your Colum
bia State of today in regard to you, be
cause I am convinced that the facts
show that the first judgment of the
Columbia State in regard to you was
the more nearly correct.
You say that if I had informed my
self, that instead of blaming the com
mittee I would condemn Mr. Blease.
No, sir. When he foundl that he was
robbed, lie sat silent and made no p~ro
test or contest--did not open his mouth
-and only when the ireform convention
was called and he was requestedl to ad
dress it, did he evei' say yen or nay in
reference to the election.
You say you hope I will correct my
statements Thei'e is nothing to cor
rect. Every one of them is true. Your
committee refused to inv'estigate fraud
when the chai'ges weire made openly
and directly to you hy six of your mem
bers, and this fact you can not dodge,
however you may attempt to (10 so.
I have no apologies to make toyou or
anybody else. There was fi'aud in the
primary, proof of which wvas offered
you as the head of the party in this
state, and you and your' committee re
fused to investigate it. Manning ac
cepted it, and took the office under such
a cloud as no other dlemocrat has ever
taken an offlee in this state. That is
the truth, and your denial at this late
(lay, in the face of the positive evidence
as written by your own spokesman, the
Columbia State, will not convince any
body to the contrary. You know that
if you had investigated those charges
of fraud, Manning's election must have
been declared illegal by your committee
if there was one spark of honesty, left
among a majority of your members, as
at is known to be illegal by a majority I
of the white democrats of this state.
I have been your friend, and have
supported you in the past, but mus tre
gret that I can never do so, in view of
your arbitrary rulings, against fairness
and justice and honesty, in the past
campaign. -
*Yours very trulvy~
(Signed) JOE, II' MILLER, a
HON. W. E. FiNDLEY
AA
Recently Elected Member of the House
of Representatives from Pickens
County.
William Elbert Findley, son of Mr.
And Mrs. J. B. Findley, was born in
P'ickens county, near Glassy mountain,
May 20, 1881. He attended the schools
in the community, then entered the
University of South Carolina and grad
ated with the degree of A. B. in 1905.
He taught in the university and studied
Amd in 1907 took his A. M. degree. le
then entered the law office of the late
Julius E. Boggs of Pickens, where he
studied law and was admitted to the bar
in 1908. He was married to Miss Essie,
eldest daughter of the late Dr. George
W. Earle of Pickens in November, 1909.
'his union has been blest with three
bright children-two boys and a girl.
Mr. Findley has large farming inter
ests which he looks after himself, be
sides his law practice. He is regarded
as a safe lawyer. He seeks to put law
on a high plane. le has a discrimina
tory mind, presents his cases clear be
fore the court, and makes a splendid
advocate at the bar.
Being strictly honorable, upright and
of the cleanest morals, he will seek to
represent his people in the legislature
to the very best of his ability. We are
fully satisfied that the interests of
Pickenk county will be safe in the hands
of Mr. Finley. It will be of interest to
our older people to know that he is a
great grandson of Col. W. Elbert Wel
born, so well and favorably known by
our older people, and like Colonel Wel
born, he is especially fond of horseback
riding.
Luther W. Pickens
Luther W. Pickens, eldest son of Mr.
and Mrs. William H. Pickens, was born
in Anderson county about. forty years
ago. When he was a boy his father
moved to Easley, where young Pickens
grew to-manhood. He graduatrd from
the Easley high school and has since
been storing his mind with useful
knowledge. He is a student of men
and books. He is familiar with the
current literature ot the day, and he is
without doubt one of the best informed
men of his age in the county. Mr. Pick
ens is one of the descendants of Gen.
Pick ens of Revolutionary 'fame, and
Gov. Pickens of Civil wvar fame, and
there is no reason why Luther should
mot become as useful in his day as they
were in theirs.
When quite a young man Mr. Piekens
avas married to Miss Esther .Johnson of
E~asley. His wife dliedl several years
igo He has one little boy. He has
icver married again. Mr. Pickens is a
>usiness man, having merchandised with
ais father and brother' in Easley. He
ilso lived in Macon, Ga., for some time,
vhere he was engagedl in business. Mr.
Pickens is very popular among owr peo
ile, as was evidenced by the large vote
le received, lie wvas elected in the first
>rimary. We have no fear but what
:he interests of Pickens county will be
ooked after andl caredl for by Mr. Pick
mns, Mr. Findley and the old true and
:ried Senator W. TP. O'Dell.
Six Mile News
Rev. Stringfield preached a very in
itructive sermon at Six Mile Sunday
ast. It is understood that Mr. String
kild and family will move within a
ihort time to our village and we wel
:ome them.
Garcie Lee, who has been in college
it Greenville, is reported very sick with
neasles. Mrs. Lee, his mother, went
o Greenville to attend him during his
lness. His friends hope for him a
peedy recovery.
S. E. Mauldin and family will move
n a few dlays to the Mountain View
ection.
Lawrence Dillard, who is teaching the
tuhama school, was with homefolks
ast Sunday.
George Kennemur of Reeds Springs,
do. Who has been spending several
veeks with relatives, has returned
Pickens Contributes Liberally
It took 1-on. A. J. Boggs only ashort
while to collect fifteen dollars in Pick
ens as this good town's part i wiping
out the Democratic campaign fund de.
ficit. If every town has done as well ir
proportion the deficit should be wiped
out by now. The money has been for
warded to Congressman -elect Dominick,
who will turn it over to the treasurer of
the camlpaign fund. Following are th
contributors:
W 11 Chastain.$1.0(
IR R oark .-.. 1.0(
T I I Stewart 5(
N A Christopher.. L ..... .0(
R T Hallum- -- -.5(
IH E Seaborn.. - . 5(
R E Bruce -------- 1.0(
It A Craig.---------------- .
J N Ilallui - -.5
.1 DYongue-... - 1.0(
J A H Townes ------------------.2
Jas. P. Carey 1.0(
.1 B Newbery- A-.
T A Bowen. - .............- .2E
0 S Stewart. -.. 1.0(
John C. Carey ... 1.0%
A J Boggs. --.. .4.(
Total. -.-- . .........$15.0(
Several of these gentlemen also con
tributed to the dampaign fund befort
the election.
Honor Roll Norris School
Following is the honor roll of Norri:
school for the month of November:
First Grade- Helen McWhorter, Frank
Clardy, George Clardy, Ruby McQueen
Advanced First Grade- Henry Entre
kin, Lance McWhorter, Grace Kirby.
Second Grade---Rosa Bell Rice, Lotth
Alexander, Edward Bowen, Bud John
son.
Third Grade--Clyde Entrekin, Minnit
McQueen, Pauline Gaines, Lizzie Black
ersby, Louise Boozer, Annie Belle En
trekin, Raymond McWhorter."
Fourth Grade--Catherine Bowen, Res
sie Baker, Pearl Owen, Ruby Owen
James Dunn.
Fifth Grade-Cecil Young, Alton Mul
linax, Norene .Johnston.
Sixth Grade-Lizzie Entrekin, Lilliat
Johnston, ,J. P. Garvin, Huston Alex
ander, Olive Alexander.
Seventh Grade-John Entrekin, Elle
Tate, Eunice Baker, Clifton MullinaN
Eighth Grade-Lola Baker.
Ninth Grade--Willie Kelley, Garlan
Leopard.
Tenth Grade-Josie Garrett.
L. E. Kinmy, Principal.
Pickens Mill Notes
(Too Late for Last Week)
Dear Sentinel: I thought I woul<
write you just a line or two to let yoi
know that our village is on the map.
On the evening of December 9 Ili
young people gave an entertainment ii
the new school auditorium. The farce
"Packing the Missionary Barrel", b3
the following young ladies: Misses El
len Adams, Essie Evatt, Clovie Evatt
Pearl Swayngham, Bessie Parsons
Leona Swaygham, Katie Pace, Lithic
Pace, Manie Porter, and Miss Esthei
Edens, was well given. "Dat Famou:
Chicken Debate" by Messrs. Joe Bag
well, Charley Johnson, Clarence Holde1
and Elfordl Porter, wvas much enjoyed
Music by the band was another inter
esting feature.
We had the pleasure, last Sundlay, 01
entertaining the Baptist Woman's Mis
sionary Union in its quarterly meeting
These women were greatly sadd~ened1 b
the death of their leader, Mrs. C. N
Watson. Mrs. Watson had been as
signled a large part on the program foi
the day,. andl her de(athocuring or
the (lay prev'ious to the me'eting-cas
ra gloom over the enutire meeting. How
iver, the chiildren br-igh tened up thing:
wvith their songs and recitations.
Mr. George D). Brown, superi tend
3nt of mill schools, visited our villag<
ast wveek.
Little Lois Pace, daughter of Mr. am~
Mrs. Robert Pace, is quite ill of pnelu
nonia. A ColItERgPONl,,NT.
The Sentinel's Honor Roll
New subscribers last week:
E W Piekens, J1 M D~odson,E N NJones
G C Chastain, W P Sidewell, J TfA dams
D~ L Ragsdale, J N Ragadale, J1 N Gil
strap,HiS Rampy, H I Porter, J I
Porter, S N Bolding, 1 0 Simmons, I
P Stephens, C E D~alton, ,J D 1Jandona
I L Cantrell, WV R Merck ,W fm>acus
Mrs Ina Dacus. Rt N Whitlock, Oscar
McDonald, J Tr Turner, J1 A Mullinix,
Jesse M Bolding, .J Tr Atkinson, -D) W
Bryant, Rt A Mauldin, Mitchell Chap
>ell, Robt. Gillespie, Butler Smith, H
Miller, S A Roper, Ray Lynch.
Renewals:
(i 11 Grant, .\ u Iinws..egsnu', '.01, .las%. A
-ins, .lake (GilliejI, ) 7 P'ressley, .\I i 1,oop.
'r, .Al TI Smil b, S (' A rnobt, T1 .1 ,an kIn, .1 rx. F.
1 Porter, ( NI Nianhiho, A I' A Iexandqer, .1I I
lnrgesN, Nirs. Licena liigglnH, WN I' ignyns
1ey. WN C Ssborn, Fransk Rlosemond, (cot)
IobI. Stewvart, irs. lE NT JIones, W A WhIte, I
P' Nelson, C W inter, A I' Dusl;)se, W II Urano
hfrR. .1 N Alorgan WV lI Ellenburg, J1 A P'arsos
.1 A Iken, WN nI fleter, Imsa Nimmons, W
'immos. .1 .1IasIl, c ha pmninn a r ..
IMARRIAGES
Married, by Judge J. B. Newbery, at
his residence, December '17, Miss Min
nic \Vatson and W. J. F. Smith of Pick
ens route 5.
Married, by Judge J. B. Newbery, at
his residence, D'cember 7, Miss Agnes
Fortner and Mr. .1. C. Connor, of Green
ville route 7.
Married, I)ecember 24, 1916, at the
Presbyterian manse, Liberty, by Rev.
John C. Bailey, Mr. Wyatt Farr and'
Miss Janet Couch.
Married, December 2.1, 1916, at the
Presbyttrian church, Central, by Rev.
John C. Bailey, Mr. W. P. Reynolds
and Miss Ola. Pressley.
Last Sunday, December 21, 1916, at
the home of the bride's parents, Miss
Lillie Nix, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. J.
E. Nix, was happily married to Mr.
Grady, Reece, Rev. 13. G. Fietd officiat
ing. Many congratulitions were ten
dered the couple.
A double wedding occurred at the
Pickens court house last Wednesday,
December 20, when Judge J. B. New
bery married, with one ceremony, Miss
Fannie Gunter and Mr. John Taylor of
Easley, and Miss Owie Wyatt and Mr.
William Stansell, also of Easley.
Married, at the home of the bride on
December 2.1, Mr. David E. Pressley to
Miss Bessie lickard The bridegroom
is the youngest child of Mr. and Mrs.
D. Z. Pressley, while his bride is the
d(ughter of Mr. and Mrs. Henry Dick
ard of Liberty route 3. Rev. W. M.
Walker performed tle ceremony,
Married, December 17, 1916, at his
. residence in Central, by J. B. Johnston,
N. P., M r. W. A. Cothran and Miss Viola
Herd. Mr. Cothran is a prosperous
young farmer of Calhoun. Miss Ilerd
is the daughter of Mr. andl Mrs. Ierd of
Central. They have the best wishes of
their numerous friends for a long and
prosperous life.-Easley Progress.
. The many friends of the contract
ig . parties will read with interest
d the marriage of Mr. Clarence Skelton
to Miss Carrie Kelley. and Mr. Martin
Mitchell to Miss Angie Kelley, which
took place at the home 'O the brides
December 10, 1916. The 6Uides are sis
ters and are the daughters of Mr. and --
Mrs. Elisha Kelley of Central route 2.
The two couple were married under the
same ceremony i) the presence of 'a
large number of relatives and friends.
The double ceremony was performed by
Rev. J. R. Davis who, with the happy
couples' many friends, wish them along
and prosperous life.
A most beautiful weddin r occured at
the hofne of Mr. and Mrs. R. K. Lewis,
near Pickens, December 17, at9.30a.m.,
when their daughter, Miss Lillie, became
the brideof Mr. John Bolding, Rev. C. R.
Abercrombie officiating. The bride
groom is . the son of Mr. and
Mrs. W. N. IBolding of the Moun
tnin Viewv section and is a young
man of many bright and noble traits.
The bride is the third (laughter of Mr.
and Mr's. R. H.' Lewis andl is a charm
ing young lady, numbering her friends
by her acquaintances. 'The waiters on*
this young couple were Mr. Robert
Welborn. Mist' Bessie Lewis, Mr. Sar
gen t G riflin and NM iss I rene Bolding.
Several other friends and relatives Were
also lpresent. Mr. and Mrs. Holding re
I ceived mn nic presents, andc immedi
.ately after the ceremony they all went
to Mountain Viewv for services, and after
ser~vices were dlismissedl they returnedl
to the home oif the bride' s father for'
dinner, where all k inds of dlelicious foods
we reservedl. In the afternoon there
was some) good singing, led by Prof. R.
M N. Bolding. .u r. Holding has .just corn
pletedl a nice dwelling house near J. M.
Garrett'.s store, where they will make
their future home immediately after ~
Christmas. T[he happy young cotiple
has the congratulations of their many
friends. ONE PhESENf'.
Liberty Is Dairying Center
A Liberty special to the Greenville
News says: Liberty is becoming quite
a center for the dairying industry.
There, are. now five dairies whose pro-.
ducts is ship ed from here. Thie largest
of these is te Liberty Dairy and Stock
Farm, H. C. Shirley being the prpie
tor. This dairy is about one androphalf
miles from town and is situated In the
certer of a 700-acre tract. Mr. Sil
has 60 head of cattle, man Shirlec
are .registeredf Jerseys. He tas a steam
engmne which is used in operating e he
cream separators, the pumpfnof water
and other things about th diry, He
Is a great believer in silos and. the
feeding of silas e and clover for dairy
cattle.aM r.h Sr ejhae been oprating
iner a long the dairying line in this.
