(J 1
O ;
e
t '
' "a
VOL. XXVIII
nOOD RIVER, OREGON, THURSDAY, DECEMBER 28. 191G
, Xo. 31
f v
We Have Your Suit
HERE
There is not a single doubt of that. The best
clothes makers in America have foreseen what you
will want, have anticipated your every whim and
fancy. We have hundreds to select from at this
Live Store The Beaufort, The Lenox, The Beltsac
The Suffolk-all made by
The House of Kuppenheimer
Prepare to look prosperous for th holidays.
Now is the time for you to get the best selections
of style and fabrics. Our stock is most complete,
our service is at its best right now. Meet clothes
satisfaction face to face at this store. You will
know real service after purchasing:
$20
$22.50
J. G. VOGT
The First Frost Has Fallen
With the season's change will come a desire to
change your menu. You will find everything desired
in the line of good things to eat at our store. Just
give us a call for the best Hot-Cake Flour, Syrups of
all kinds, Breakfast Foods, Oatmeals, Cereals of the
Season, Breakfast Bacon, Etc.
The atmosphere of autumn will sharpen your ap
petitewe will furnish the foods.
Telephone 2121.
ARNOLD GROCERY CO.
Hay.Grain, Mill Feed,
CORN
Made from corn grown in Hood River Valley, milled and
sacked by Kelly Bros. No better, fresher meal than this.
Get it from your grocer
Kelly Bros. Corn Meal
We Wish You One and All
A Very Happy, Prosperous
New Year
Kresse Drug Company
The 3tcM Store
Until Further Notice this store will close at 8 p. m., except Sat. night 11 p. m., starting Jan. 2, 1917
$25
Flour and Corn Meal
MEAL
i
AN OPEN LETTER
Dame rumor with intent of filling in a dull period has
misrepresented some facts. It isjdue to you and to our future,
that these be correctly stated, and briefly as a true version
will permit.
In 1908 we completed and occupied buildings through
Second to Third streets. This enabled us to store an immense
stock that had to be bought far ahead in carload lots. Then
came two important changes.
We sold out our stock of heavy building material, such
as doors, windows and mouldings, and many large factories
opened distributing warehouses on coast, thus mnking car
load buying unprofitable, except in heavy stuff like nails and
roofing. This left us surplus floor space not earning full
measure. For insurance economy our store is divided by fire
walls, the first wall 100 feet west from Second street, the
next wall 150 feet. Beyond this is 50 feet extending to 3rd
street, making on short notice three, two, or all ee, distinct
and separate buildings.
This last section we have leased for a long term of years
to J. C. Penny Co., Inc. We will give possession March 1,
1917, and make the fire wall solid. We have not sold them,
or any one, any part of our business or merchandise. We
still have room to double our stock and will be in shape to
serve you more efficiently under a much reduced expense.
While receiving a nice income as rental from a concern very
highly recommended in 10 cities where we made inquiry, we
have no interest in their business beyond that of landlord,
but was glad to learn that the manager here is also a partner.
This is all there is of the many tales in circulation.
Respectfully submitted,
STEWART HARDWARE & FURNITURE CO.,
By W. M. Stewart, Owner.
DO IT
Now is the time to buy that Fall suit while our
stock is complete.
Absolutely the largest stock of fine woolens to
select a suit of all wool cloth.
Over fifteen hundred samples to select from.
Also bear in mind we make these suits in Hood
River, tailored in the latest fashions. Pinchbacks
as well as English, and the ever popular Boxbacks,
made for you and to fit you.
MEYER, The Tailor
108 Third
Tailor to Men
The Fashion
To and from Parkdale are running on changed schedule.
Automobile now leaves Hood River daily at four o'clock
instead of four-thirty. Cars leave Parkdale daily at seven
thirty a. m. except on Sunday. Parkdale-Hood River trips
are made every Saturday night, machine leaving at six-thirty.
Travel right, when seeing the Mid-Columbia district and
tell your visiting friends about the excellent service of
The Fashion Stables
Telephone 1201
Frederick & Arnold
Contractors and Builders
Estimates famished on nil kinds of work
Phones; jM'
NOW
Street
Tailor to Women
Stables Cars
Hood River, Ore.
M. E. WELCH,
LICENSED YETERI5ARY SURGEON'
I prepared to do any work Id the veterin
ary Una. He eap be found bj calling at or
pboDlDf to the rublon SUkblea.
tOCAL FREIGHT
BUSINESS BIG
HOOD RIVER STATE'S THIRD CITY
Revenue from Tonnage Originating in
Valley Surpasses $1,000,000 Annually
Mt. Hood Line's Business Grows
Recent statistics show that the city
of Hood River stands tbird in the state
of Oregon in freight earnings. Port
land, of course, is first, and Astoria is
the only other city, at which fieight
originates that returns railway linea a
greater revenue than at the capital of
the Apple Valley, which is classed
with such points as Tacoma and Spo
kane. While at the present tin complete
figures on the freight earnings of the
1916 products of the Valley are un
available, conservative estimates will
bring the total revenue for railway
lines to a figure of more than $1,000,
000. The apple crop of local orchards
the past year has reached more than
1,500,000 boxes.
1 be rate on apples to points east of
the Mississippi river is 50 cents per
box. Thus if 1,000,000 boxes of this
fruit is shipped to the terminals of the
Mississippi and Ohio Valleys and At
lantic seaboard, the freight earnings
of fruit will reach $500,000. The total
lumber shipments originating at Ruth
ton, just west of here and practically
an extension of the local O.-W. R. &
N. yards, and on the line of the Mt.
Hood Railroad Co., the Hood River
Valley feeder of the transcontinental
Union Pacific system, reach annually
approximately 2,200 carloads. The
greater part of this lumber is shipped
to Utah, Idaho and Wyoming points.
The average freight per car will reach
about $200, making a total of $440,000
in freight revenue. Some 200 carloads
of wood, averaging a freight return of
$25 each, are shipped annualy from
Hood River to points of eastern Oregon
and Washington. While the potato
crop of Hood River was damaged to
the extent of 50 per cent by the early
November freeze. Superintendent Wil
son estimates that approximately 20
carloads will originate at points on the
Mt. Hood line this season. The pota
toes are shipped principally to Port
land and California points. Tins year,
for the first time cider apples have
been shipped in material quantities to
outside points. Approximately 50 car
loads of this grade of fruit has been
shipped to Portland, The Dalles and
Vancouver, Wash.
The magnitude of the local freight
business can be comprehended when
one realizes that the average of the
daily freight delivered from the Mt.
Hood Railroad Company s line to the
O.-W. R. & N. Co. throughout the
year reaches about 8 carloads. The
Mt. Hood line, originally extending
from here to Dee, the location of the
plant of the Oregon Lumber Co., was
primarily built by the lumber concern
to handle its own output of lumber.
As the Upper Valley orchard district
developed, the line was pushed to
Parkdale six years ago, and today it
is one of the O.-W. R. & N. Com
pany's chief feeders. Voluntarily year
before last the local valley line and the
Union Pacific Co. put into effect a rate
that enabled the apple growers of the
Odell district and all points north to
ship their fruit directly to points east
of Huntington at the same rate granted
Hood River. The new rate provided
for an absorption of five cents per 100
pounds, including the total on all'ship
ments from Odell and points north,
while the same absorption applied on
shipments originating at points south
of Odell. The saving to growers this
year over the old rate will reach more
than $10,000. The Mt. Hood line this
season has handled twice as many
apples as in former seasons. By the
end of the year a total of 750 carloads
of fruit will have been handled by the
Valley line, all but about 50 of these
having been delivered to connecting
lines.
The passenger business of the Mt.
Hood line has shown a remarkable
increase during the past year. Up
until last summer the passengers of
the road weie handled in the mixed
train operated once daily between here
and Parkdale. To handle the increased
passenger traffic Superintendent Wilson
last spring put into commission a 30
passenger rail automobile. The service
was merely an experiment, but it has
grown permanent. Throughout the
summer and autumn months and even
during the winter the big rail machine
has made two round trips daily from
Parkdale, carrying maximum loads.
Because of the severe winter weather
all but one round trip will be discontin
ued on January 1-until the opening ol
spring weather.
"The passenger business has been so
successful with the rail auto," says
Supt. Wilson, "that I shall recommend
next year the purchase of another sim
ilar car, and I have every assurance
that the purchasing department will
give us the car."
Today a kindlier feeling between the
officials of the Mount Hood Railroad
Co. and the citizens of the coraumnities
it serves exists. The communities have
been aroused to the enormity of the
valley road's work. It is realized that
the line is afixed institution furnishing
a very beneficial service. It is true,
too, that the railway officials have
awakened to a new realization of its
opportunities. There is a new spirit of
cooperation. The officials showed their
willingness last summer to facilitate in
every possible manner the passenger
traffic. Residents of the Upper Valley
and points between Parkdale and Hood
River expressed their appreciation with
a renewed patronage, and the past
year's business has been gratifying.
"No condition hat ever been more
gratifying to the officials of the rail
road company," declares Superintend
ent Wilson, "and we are going to en
deavor in every manner to keep our
service up to the high standard main
tained during the past summer. We
wish through the columns of the Gla
cier to personally thank the citizens ol
the valley for their hearty support and
'cooperation, and it is our New Year's
j wish that the spirit of friendliness is
I further cemented as time pauses."
LITIGATION MAY
FOLLOW EMBARGO
Litigation between Northwestern
fruit aalae agencies and traniconti
nental raliway linea is likely to result
from the action of the railway systems
in placing a temporary embargo on the
shipment of apples, according to offi
cials of local co-operative salea agen
cies. Kenneth McKay, manager of the
Fruit Growers' Exchange, the local
affiliation of the Northwestern Fruit
Exchange, while be characterizes the
present embargo aa a possible benefit
to Northwestern growers, in that ifl
will tend the clean up an over supply
of apples in eastern terminal cities,
questions the legal right of the railway
companies to set the embargo.
"In my opinion," eaya Mr. McKay,
"the action of the railway companies,
if allowed to go unquestioned, will set
a precedent that is likely to hamper
the fruit industry of the Northwest in
the future. While our organization is
not likely to begin litigation, I am
expecting the matter to be threshed
out drastically from the Seattle office
of the Northwestern Fruit Exchange,
and some of the other Northwestern
district associations affiliated with the
central agency will undoubtedly en
deavor to restrain the railways or to
sue for a decision that will prevent
possible future embargoes at such a
time aa might seriously injure apple or
other fruit shippers."
Urhcials of the Apple Growers Asso
ciation characterizes the action of the
railways in setting the embargo as in
volving a principle that may be very
inimical to Northwestern fruit inter
ests.
"If shipments of fruit had continued
unhampered," said Mr. MKay, "east
ern markets would be further rilled
with Northwestern boxed apples. The
fruit would either be stored orplaced
in sale in a weak market. Should the
market revive, a likely outcome, the
Northwestern apple shipper will have
plenty of refrigerator cars in which to
rush his applea to the eastern centers
and take advantage of the condition.
At the present time all of the markets
with which I am acquainted have
enough apples to supply them for the
next several weeks."
The Union Pacific embargo went
into effect Saturday night at 12 o'clock.
The Great Northern was refusing early
last week to accept shipments of ap
ples, while the Northern Pacific, which
can handle local shipments of apples
through. its Wallula gateway, offered
to carry fruit in ventilated cars but
refused the option of the Bhipper to
send the fruit by heater service. Be
cause of the extremely cold country
over which the line travels the latter
rail line's embsrgo might as well be
absolute, according to local men.
The Union Pacific embargo, which
was said to have been set because of
the abnormal congestion of the
freight, the lack of motive power'and
the prevailing cold weather over the
Rocky Mountain region, will last until
January 8, according to announce
ments. The Apple Growers Associa
tion is hit more heavily here than any
other shipping concern. The Associa
tion has already shipped approximate
ly 1,000 cars of fruit, but has 700 addi
tional to roll. The Fruit Growers
Exchange will escape with not more
than 20 cars of applea unshipped.
O'.her concerns and private individuals
have a prouable 30 cars on hand:
II. If. HI ALUMNI
MEETS SATURDAY
When Bill Cass, president of the
Hood River High School Alumni Asso
ciation, calls the tenth annual meeting
to order next Saturday night at the
high school auditorium, there will be
graduatse there all the way up from
Harold Hershner, '04, to the class of
'17.
From the replies to the invitations
sent out by Florence Brosius, secretary
of the organization, it is estimated that
150 of the 250 alumni of the high school
will be present at this year's meeting
and banquet.
The meeting was originally planned
for tonight, but on account of the fac
ulty being out of town attending the
Oregon State Teachers' meeting, it
was postponed. However, the meeting
even then could not be scheduled so as
to allow the presence of County Super
intendent Gibson as he is attending a
county superintendents' meeting in Sa
lem next Saturday.
The wife or husband of an alumnus
is extended an invitation to attend this
year aa President Cass thinks many
have stayed at home on former occa
sions rather than attend without their
life partner.
This is the first time in recent years
that the function has been held at the
high school. 1 he new auditorium and
enlarged domestic science department
afford a fine place for the meeting and
banquet, and all such affairB of the
future.
The committees in charge are: En
tertainment, Mrs. Edgar Franz; re
freshments, Florence Brosius, Frances
Bragg and Fred Coshow ; decoration,
Julius Jscobsen, Lottie Kinnaird and
Gladys Reavis; dancing, 'Paul Lancas
ter and Lawrence Hershner.
INTEREST CENTERS
IN BUDGET MEET
Interest in Hood River now is center
ing in the budget election, which will
be held todsy. Special representatives
from all five county granges and from
the city will be present. According to
the budget, aa published by the county
court, the funds for road improvement
next year will be levied under the head
of general funds instead of a road fond.
By this means the county will be able
to raise a road tax from the city, al
though they apportion no money for
municipal work. The method of rais
ing the funds will also place in the
court the power of expending the funds
wherever the members of that body
will.
This move on the part of the court
will be opposed by rural factions, who
assert that each road district should
received its full proportion of the road
funds as provided for in the law, when
the money is raised under a general
road fund. The city will also oppose
the action.
Shere is Mt Hood Agent
Stanley J. Kher mhn ), hopn nnpr
sting the rail automobile of the com
pany, hai succeeded L. J. Braieau as
agent of the MousA Hood R. R. Co. at
the eity office. Mr. Brazeau has gone
to Portland, where he will be in the
employ of the O.-W. R. 4 N. Co.
NEW SYSTEM
ISPROPOSED
CITIZENS WANT DUAL GOVERNMENT
Commission May Be Appointed to Outline
Plan for the Amalgamation of Gty
and County of Hood River
Agitation is now under wav in Hood
River county that will probably even
tally lead to a request from the Legis
lature, on the part of local people, to
change the laws of the state in such
wise as to make possible the amalga
mation of the governments of the citv
and county of Hood River. It has
been suggested during the Dast week
that local legislative representatives
be asked to take the proper steps
toward creating the dual form of gov
ernment. After a deliberation on the
matter, however, it has been decided
that a too hasty action would render
impossible a law adequata in detail to
all the demands of the proposed new
form of government, and ultimate
action will be left for some future
Legislature.
The matter baa been broached to
me, says Geo. K. Wilbur, joint sen
ator elect from Hood River and Wasco
counties, "and 1 roust say that, while
the idea is in a measure revolutionary,
I believe the city and county would
gain in economy and efficiency if the
two governments were combined. Hut
nothing could be gained by rushing the
question into the coming Legislature.
Aa yet we have not had time to know
just what we want. It will take some
time and earnest study to outline a
definite plan of action."
It is now suggested that a commis
sion, composed of representative men
of both city and county be appointed
to make a study of the governments of
cities and counties of San Francisco
nd Los Angeles, California, and other
similar dual governments of eastern
states. This commission, if appointed.
will be authorized to draft a plan.
j The proposed movement meets with
general approval by both the residents
of City and Valley. The consensus of
opinion is that the matter should have
thorough investigation.
It is argued that Hood River City
and County at large are communities
of similar interest. The entire county
is small and compact and has the
appearance of a town, the'population
is dense and the property is cut up
into small holdings. All conditions,
geographic and economic are ideal, it
is said, for a common form of govern
ment. It is further declared that the pro
posed new form of government will
result in a great saving in that elec
tions will be eliminated and one set of
officers, instead of two, will administer
the affairs of both. While the number
and designation of new officers of the
proposed dusl government have not
been named, it has been suggested
that the tenure of office should be four
years. Under existing laws, the city
holds an annual primary and an annual
general election, each of which cost
approximately $100. The county holds
two elections biennially, each costing
an approximate $2,000. County offi
cials have warned the people that
records are in constant menace from
fire because of the poorly constructed
vault in the old schoolhouse now used
aa a courthouse. It is argued that
within a few years a creditable, com
bined city hall and courthouse could be
erected from the savings in election
cost under the new form of govern
ment.
COMPANY 12 WILL
PRESENT O.A.C. BAND
The Cadet Regimental Band of the
Oregon Agricultural College will give
a concert here next Tuesday evening,
January 5, at the.Heibronner hall, the
temporary armory, under the auspices
of the Artillery Club, composed of
members of Twelfth Company, Coast
Artillery Corps, O. N. G. The ap
proaching concert is creating a keen
interest. A large proportion of the ar
tillerymen, formerly O. A. C. men,
were members at one time of the Ore
gon Agricultural College regiment.
The band concert will be followed by
an informal dance.
The band, conmposed of 38 pieces,
will be directed . by Harry L. Beard,
who for the past 11 years has been
conductor of the musical organization.
Albert S. Hall, an ollicer.of the artil
lery company, was 12 years ago regi
mental adjutant and had charge of the
military band.
Admission to the concert and dance
will be 50 cents. No seats will be re-
861 Vcd
The first annual ball of the Artillery
Club, held Christmas night, was a-de-cided
success, having drawnmore gen
eral. interest'and the largest'attendance
of any social event of the year. Wal
ter F'ord had charge of the dance. The
big Heilbronner hall, temporary ar
mory, was beautifully decorated by L.
E. Foust, Joe C. Hayward and William
Bailey.
CALIFORNIA BOYS
II. BLAGG'S GUESTS
Harold Lindeman and Claude Tyrrel,
both of Los Angeles, Calif., students
of O. A .C, are here over the Christ
mas vacation at Roadside Fruit Farm,
the home of their host's parents, Mr.
and Mrs. F. H. Blagg, the guests of
Henry Blagg. their fellow student
The visitors are combining pleasure
with work while here and are making
an inspection of the fruit warehouses
of the Apple Growers Association.
The visiting California boys and their
host are members of the new chapter
of the Sigma Chi fraternity recently
installed at the college.
Mr. Blagg, known to bis Hood River
f rends as Heine, will return to O. A.
C. tomorrow to participate in practice
of the basketball team. Mr. Blagg was
known as one of Hood River Hi'a most
noted basketball players. He ia one of
the leading members of O. A. C.'a
quintet.
Don't forget that the date of the re
ception to be tendered by the members
of the Woman's Club to their husbands
has been changed from the evening of
January 3 to January 10.
