ft
FULL LEASED
WIRE DISPATCHES
llouraal
CIRCULATION IS
OVER 4000 DAILY
THIRTY-NINTH YEAR NO. 281
SALEM, OREGON, THURSDAY, DECEMBER 28, 1916
PRICE TWO CENTS Jt
SrTANDB JTVM
lli l
TO SEIZE GRAIN PORT
Mackensen Seems To Bt p Viving Strong Toward Odessa, I
After Having Conquei Seven-Eighths of Rumania
Berlin Reports Steady Vance and Caoture of Large
Number of Russian Pr iers Through Breaking of
Russian lines fighting becoming More Severe Daily
London, Dec, 28.---Attempt to invade Russian soil
north of Dobrudja or east of Moldavia, as the next de-
yelopment in Field Marshal Von Mackensen's eastern of-
fensive, is expected here. Advance of the Teutonic ,
columns is being opposed in fierce fighting by the Susso-
Rumanian troops. The German forces have lost heavilv
in their northward advance and from now on they will!
have even heavier fighting cut out for them, as the Russo- j
Rumanian lines are now attaining their greatest strength
inrougn consolidation
Very little doubt existed
military experts that Mackensen's objective was Odessa, j
Russia. They recalled recent
front hinting that this was
I. m-i
at which the. Teutons were aiming.
, Almost seven-eighth of the entire territory of Ru
mania is now in German hands. Moldavia alone remains i
free from the invader. But here the Russian and Ruman-1
ian line is safe from the sort of military tactics by which1
Yon Mackensen and Von Hindenburg achieved most of i
a.1 i ,i n " . , .
tneir successes m the Rumanian campaign - flanking" -
4-t " i.1 i. i.1
uijeiauuilS. KJll Uie west, lite
the great Carpathian range
Ts , , V, A r....j-i. .
London now expects a stiffening of the resistance alone-
HT1J..: u J un.
iiuo muiuavian mie aitu a nail,
Capture of Rimincul Sarat,
unexpected here.
Berlin, via Sayville wireless, Dec. 28.
r.t ? onn .
fM ;h .,, !-, ,,. "fl
oners during the' engagements about j plane, today's official statement assert
ed by thc war office today. " Tester-, ed. The report detailed considerable
If iininouli-Sarat up to 10200, was report-
Whiw hl-ono-hr in " fun BTntaiiianl o..l
"The number of prisoners made by the
CSf'i-r?'
290 55 uueu.
""m t u- t ..I South of the Avre, a German raid-
The Danube army according to tl.e;i t was di th 8talcment
ZtfeiS1 y PartlSl lasferted, and in the region of Beauv
Bi nis j esit 1 1 ay. ' raignes, French forces successfully ex-
t.i"' VP-Hploded mines against German positions.
tonified height positions east of ds io le th and 40 in wkth
The statement said the Prussian and
Bavarian infantry detachments at Ri-jitinicu-Sarat
pressed behind the enemy
as they flowed back, tool: by stampede
e enemy positions constructed during
tde night and pushed ahead beyond
Kiminicu-fSarat-"
The victory was achieved over. Rus.
sians rather than Rumanians, the Rus
sian forces betng those summoned to
Rumania 's defense. The enemy was
defeated December 26 and tried then
tfl regain the lost ground by counter
thrusts of strong masses, but failed.
"At the same time further south
ast," said the statement, "German
nnd Austro-Hungarian troops pierced
Strongly entrenched Russian lines and
also repulsed violent counter attacks
ihu aga-i si ineir riniiK. mey aa-1
vsncea rignung, m a northeast direc-
4 ; . . 1. r, 1
' T TTT' .K" ,' suneriug ucuvy,
sanguinary losses in defeat. I
Brings Down Another,
Paris, Dec. 28 Sub-Lieutenaut Guv
r'l alius want t' live in a little town
-where ye 're remembered after th'
hearse gits back t ' th ' Kvery stable, ' 1
xairt Tell Biokier, t'day. One thing
.t - be glad of is that stogies have been
fe&ortencd an inch.
here today in the minds of;
dispatches from the eastern i
the point beyond Bucharest
r J
11 i J a. , i -i -i I
allies iront IS protected Dymous tipartmont entrance baby case.
and on the east the rivers Meanwhile Marjorie Reese, four
j
li. . -i i
put to tne merman advance,
announced last night, was not
enemer, France's premier
unougiit down his Mtn Uerman aero
nerial activitv on the western f ront
...I.l I I.... .i: l:ti
T. . - ... ? . r .
Rompbach, Dillingen, Briey and Hagon
ngp
Two rrench dingibles. it was
saia' bombarded factories at Ncuskix-
German attacks on the eastern slopes
of Hill 304 were checked.
(-Continued on page two.)
WALL ST. GAMBLERS
MADE SIXTY MILLION
BY TIP ON PEACE NOTE
Washington, Dec. 28. Over sixty mil-
j0n dollars was made iu Wall street
by those having a'dvance information on
- " . . d. . I
president Wilson f peace note, accord-1
ing to a telegram received today from i
Thomas I-awson by Representative
Wood, of Indiana.
The telegram follows: .
"Now York, Dee. 28. Just read to-1 in touch with him. He says he s taken
day's New York papers. You aud jit for granted when the proper time
Chairman Henry-unable to locate me, I comes, there will be no trouble in reach
really? Framed over my desk is "an en- ing I.awson and getting a full statement
velope inscribed 'To Thomas W'. Law-'from him on what ho knows concerning
son, ' no other address- To settle a wag-j leaks connected with the president's
er, it was mailed in an interior town in peace note.
China and landed at my Boston office
iu record short time.
"If you and Chairman Heury wish
to communicate with me. toss a post
card irom any winnow in tne capuoi vesiiguiion oi an uie matters invoivei ; ers of bituminous coal in the I nion.
addressed 'Thomas W. Lawson,' or 'T.liu his resolution and that the senate' Because European demands on east
W. L., Boston,' and you will receive land house out of self respect for eachcrn mines have resulted in leaving mid-'
answer by return mail. of these bodies should inahst on such an I die western states unsupplied, heavy or-
' ' Take a tip from one who played the I investigation. j ders from the central states are pouring
big Washington-Wall street game and! Wood said that if the editorials ap-ju and for the first time in the state's
the big international publicity game pearing io newspapers of the country history Colorado is shipping coal as far
long before you were old enough to dis
tinguish between a stock exchange and
a congressional hall spend less time
on last week and more time on this
week's leak, which is liable'to inundate
both Wall street and Washington.
"There were only sixty-odd million
hogs headed from last week's, this
week 'g may run into billions.
"And this tip, too, is meant in the
best of spirit;"
If it was actually believed in Wash
ington there was to be a real investiga
tion of laet week's leak there wouldn't
be a qaornm in either the senate or
house next Monday and there would
be a shifting of bank accounts, similar
to those in the good old sugar investiga
tion days.
' ' Whether or not I receive postcard
from yen or Chairman Henry, rest easy
in the knowledge I will answer your
CHICAGO'S SRIME RECORD
Chicago, Dec. 88. When the
accessor to Chief of d'olice
Healey steps in New Year's eve
he. will face the problem of com
bnttiug a record of crime which
may not be equalled iu any city.
Figures published today com
piled by Thomas M. Kilbride,
secretary of the state board of
pardunsf show this crime record
for Chicago:
A hold up every six hours.
A murder every other day.
Two suicides a day.
An arrest every seven and
one-linlf minutes.
Liquor, lust, gambling and
bad company are the most fre
quent causes of crime, Kilbride
says.
NEW TRIAL DENTED CAPLAR
! tiZiSSfZ VlSli&ttfo
Capian, convicted of manslaughter in
ffZ Iffi
senteneed capian t tea ye;
K '
" '
WIFE IS NOT TWINS
Slip fannnr TsiIta Rahv ftiit
H V iaRe,DiD w
A U J D..--..
One Door and Buggy
at Same Time
1ew Vurk ,)t''- 8os
p.orMT vi'tory t0,lay ar'st,u
people, in supreme court, atter a Hear
;,,,, wi. ...
J I
months old, continues through a tem
torarv iniunclion to use the front en-
UancB o ,Ue Robert Morris apirtments
with the dogs and cats and people, m-
stead of being smuggled up the garb
age aud laundry entrances.
Marjorie 's father is trying to make
tne losses ot ins apartment let her use ,
the front door all the time. They in-i
aviator, liaslist she "ght to use the rear entrance where 6a.Uer tmU fa WHs expi.eMed'
Li. .LbeUS(' hSs ,bal., fIne wh(V0,3!that the first chief ultimately would
iracK up me oeauurui loyer.
Justice Uijur suggested maybe Mar-;
jorie could be brought in the front i
way ttD'l ner carriage in the rear way
twins and that mamma Reese was the
sole guardian of little Marjorie and
couldn't be both places at once.
The judge smiled "why not let her
wait upstairs while you take the car
riage down the back way first?" he
asked. "Babies aren't in a hurry any
way are theyf"
Then he decided to read up on Solo
mon and decide the baby case some
other way.
Freight-loads of 6,000 tons are com
monly hauled by single locomotives of
the larger type. .
public talking as reported by the press
anu mat wnen you digest my answer
vnti will t.-rmiv mnri' atirmf tVu uti i nrrlnn
. . . .7 ' . . O.
rton -
all street stock gambling leaks
before you began trying to I
locate,
' Thomas W. I.awson, of Boston,
Wood said that at no time has
he
stated he could not locate Lawson or get
v oou stated further the
reflection
upon ev
cast by I.awson 'a telegram
ery member of the house and senate,"
"us -sui liciciu io nitriuui me iuiicm. in-
are any reflection on public opinion the
public itselt will msist on the fullest in
vestigation, not only for the purpose of
Yerreting out those who are responsible
for the advsnce information received by
Wall street, but to prevent a recurrence
of such a scandal.
President Wilson, Sixty
Years Old Good Health
Washington, Dec. 28 President Wil
son is 60 years of age today. From a
"close up" view he looks at least 10
years younger. A aide view of the chief
executive as he stepped almost jauntily
through the corridor leading from the
White House to hia office, he looked
about half his three score.
According to Dr. Cary T. Grayson, the
AGREEMENT IS
NOT SATISFACTORY
TO CARRANZ A
Leader of De Facto Govern
ment Will Make New
Proposals
MEXICAN AMBASSADOR
AT CAPITAL REMOVED
Carranza's Forces Are At
. tempting to Head Oft
Villa's Army
By Carl D. Groat
j ( United Press staff correspondent.)
I Washington, Dec. 28. Luis Cabrera
j this afternoon presented to Secretary
of the Interior Lane, who is chairman'
of the American group of Mcxican
I American pence commissioners, General I
Stiites uote regnrdin
h"?
Hie note was pre.
Carranza's answer to the last I'nited j
g the troop with-
presented without ex
planation by Cabcrn, who would make
no statement regarding H. Secretary
I. ane said he might make a statement
regarding it later this afternoon.
Presentation of the note under these
iicumstances was generally interpreted i
as meaning tarrsnza. instead or signing
v.. - ...-V..UV.. u.v.
aowmtt counter propus-ms.
The communication was a long one
! It was written in (Spanish nnd before it
is made public by Secretary I.ane will
Tt wars written in Snmiish juid hefnrc il
be translated and submitted to the other
members of the American commission.
A Agreement Unsigned.
Wnshinortnn. Dec 28. That (Jpnerlll
Carrnnza has not ,j;ned the troop with-!
urawai proioooi oui nns insieaci again
submitted counter proposals, was the
,.owinir beiief here todnv. This belief
.. :,, n,- ntc,;.i ;,.nlo.
sign the pape,
jrcu in touch tlc situation
said they believed Carranza will seek
another peace conference. This request
was expectd to be submitted by (Jhair
manftbrera of the Mexican commis
sion, when he sees Secretary Lane early
this afteft-noon.
Meantime it developed that Ambassador-Designate
Arrcdondo probably will
leave hero within the next two weeks
and may be replaced.
Arredondo for a long time is said to
have felt keenly the fact that his gov
ernment and himself were not fully
recognized by this administration.
Though Cabrera has been suggested as
a possible successor to Arredondo, Con
sul General De Negri of San Francisco,
was reported today as Carranza's choice
to fill Arredondo 's plaee.
Lane is Informed.
I Washington, Doc. 28.- Franklin K.
j Lane, chairman of the American com
! mission, was informed of Carranza's de
I cisfon regarding signing of the border
I protocol in a conference with Chairman
Cabrera of the Mexican commission this
afternoon. .
It is understood that an official state-1
mant concerning the announcement will
be made tonight.
Carranza is Active,
Kl Piiho, Texas, Dec. 28 Kvorv energy
0f the Carranza government today It I
1 directed toward rushinir troor-s to Sal-!
thaii'tillo and Monterey to head off the ad -
vance of Villa's bandit armv noon these
ities and Tamoico. according to reports
' reachino- Cnited States authorities here.
"(Continued on page three.)
Colorado Is Facing
1 r 1 n ;
Ut'gUldr XMai F dHIUlC
Denver, Colo., Dec. 28. Colorado will
soon feel the pinch of coal famine, deal-
era declared today, despitei the fact that
this state is one ot the heaviest nroduc-
1 east as Iowa
Stocks here are becom-
ing greatly depleted. government's attitude that violations
Bituminous coal here is now selling! which affected property are not even to
from $5 to (0.50 er ton, against 4jbe compared to violations which affect
to 5.50 a year ago. life, the warning is generally interpret
r. resident 'a ririvatn nhvaicinn President
Wilson never was in better health,
Plentv of outdoor exercise is what has
kept him fit, Dfi Grayson says.
A deluge of rain prevented his usnsal
game of golf with Mrs. Wilson and he
spent the forenoon quietly with hope
of an automobile ride this afternoon.
Three years ago the president was re
ported from time to time as being in a
bad physicial condition. He continually
suffered from colds, which held on ten
aciously. Walking and golfing have
driven away his weakness for cold and
his added weight gives him the a pnear -
anco of perfect health.
TODAY'S WAR MOVES
Bossia is about to face another Ger-
i man invasion this time in Bessarabia.
Teutonic columns will be on Bussian
soil north of Dobrudja and east of Mol-1
tluviA within the neit few Havh if thev i W
continue their present rapid rate of ad-
vance.
This, the apparent drop in the Bus-
siun power 01 rrsiaiuuce, was me mwi
significant development iu today's of
ficialstatement Berlin, which report
ed capture of Himimcul-Snrat last night,
told today of further progress beyond
that city in Buniania. Farther west the
Germans claimed Brnila was within
reach of their guns. Should the city
fall the Hermans will be in a position
to use the Danube for flanking opera
tions. Berlin spoke today of ' 1 surprisingly
great successes" in Dobrudja recently
and detailed big captures of Russians
There was little fighting activity on
other fronts reported today.
Odds and Ends of
Great World War News
London, Dec. 28. A British military
mission in Rumania destroyed Ruman
ian oil fields valued at $150,000,000 be
fore that territory fell into German
hands, W. YV. Rutherford, a member of
parliament announced at a general
meeting of the Rumanian Consolidated
Oil Fields company today. He said
the property and stork obtained by the
Germans was valueless.
Hungary is Hungry
London, Doc. BB. Daily food demon
sl rations in the chief cities of Austria
Hungary, grent misery; wiih hundreds
ot suicides during December, were re
ported in Exchange Telegraph dis
patches from Geneva today.
The dispatches deelared rne misery
,f thc workorit in Anslria and Hungary
was unnallinu- and lamentable,
Reply to Switzerland
Amsterdam, Dec. 28. Germany and
Austria have replied to Switzerland's
reiteration of President Wilson's peaco
suggestions with practically the same j
phrases in which tliey acknowledged
the Ajjperican iote, dispatches from
Germany said today.
In addition, it was said the reply
declared that Swiss collaboration in
the securing of world peaco was most
agreeable to the peoples of the cen
tral powers and Bulgaria.
Commander Decorated
Amsterdam, Dec. 28. Submarine
Commander Valentincr of the flermnn
navy, has bven jdccortited wjth thc
Order Pour Lo Merit for his exploits
in sinking 138 ships with a total of
282,000 tons, according to Berlin dis
patches received here today.
Sinking Justified
Berlin, via Sayville wireless, Dec.
28. Germany's answer to American
inquiries as to sinking of thc Norwe-
atMmfllilri tlnlt, no rn 11 Mm i i t erl to
Ainrmssaaor uerara loauy juiuura
sinkinc of that vessel on the ground
that she was violating neutrality and
dismisses the contention that her pas
sengers were jeodardized as - unjusti
fied. (Continued on page three.)
NO MORE NOTE WRITING
ON SUBMARINE ISSUE
IF PEACE
By Robert J. Bender.
(United Press staff correspondent.)
Washington. Dec. 28 "The fear that
1 if prcient peace negotiations fail this
I nation then must clear its slp.te on the
: submarine situation, with Germany grow
! nnnco todav.
But President Wilson intends to push
this peuco of work to the limit to avoid
: possible subsequent unpleasantness with
Germany, if possible.
Both President Wilson and Secretary
l.ansinir have decided to maintain n dis-
, r ;i it silence on this topic. This is due,
it is believed, to the fact that they do
not wish to appear to be wearing n chip
on the shoulder when peace is being
(talked with even slight hope
or
buc-
e.mw
There is now i "mistaking, officials possible,
believe, that President Wi(son's peace j Otherwise, it is stated, the adininistra
noUs to belligerents and the two sub j tion feels the course of neutrality
sVrfuent " explanations" by Secretary might be embarrassed by the contimi
Lansing, in effect, constituted a warn- nnco of the session, with the possibili
ing against any unbridled acts of war ties of debates, or measures being in-
thnt would involve A.ncrican lives or
rights. Since it has always been thiB
ed as being directed therefore, tniefly
acninst th central nowcrn. whose sub
marines have not only destroyed and en-
dangered American lives, but have also
destroyed American property, admitted
ly in violation of all rules of human
ity and international warfare.
Officials, however, are trying not to
overemphasize this a tin y .really want
to aid peace, and have already put thc
government on record as not considering
any change in the neutrality policy at
this time.
One authority, however, repeated that
there will be no more note writing to
, Germany : and he indicated that if Gr-
' many cuts loose with her submarines,
HAVE SOME MONEY
Washington, Dec. 28. Re
sources of the national banks
have increased over four bil
lion dollars since the inaugur
ation of the federal reserve sys
tem three years ago, according
to the report of Comptroller of '
the Currency Williams today.
The resources of the national
banks' have doubled since the
spring of 1908, he said.
TOBACCO IS BARRED
McMinnville, Or., Dec. 28. The days
of the college boy who wan wont to
roam the campus exuding great puffs
of smoke from an overgrown calabash
pipe have passed, if President Riley of
McMinnville College insists upon obe
dience of an order issued putting the
ban on tobacco in all forms.
Riley has given the boys until the
first of the year to wean themselves
from the weed made famous by Sir
Walter Raleigh.
A large number of the collegians
have already taken the professor's or
der to heart and are eating candy and
chewing gum as substitutes for tobacco
FIFTY SURVIVORS
OF
Fate of Remainder of Four
Hundred Passengers Still
Unknown
Tokio, Dec. 28. Fifty survivors of
the pnsscngcrs and crew of the steam
er Bankalcu Mnru, which was wrecked !
off Ohcefoo landed safely, according
to a dispatch from that city received
today. The survivors include two
American passengers.
A few Chinese passengers escaped
by boats to Dairen before the other
passengers left thc Sankaku.
The fate of the remainder of the 400
passengers- and crew who were aboard
the Hnnknku when she went aground
is not made clear by the lisatches. It
is feared, however, that many may
have frozen' to death.
First dispatches yesterday stated
that there were 400 passengers nnd
'.row aboard the Sankaku when she
wont, ashore. Today's advices, account
for only 50 Americans and Japanese
and "a few Chinese posengers." This
would leave the unaccounted for ap
proximately 350. Dispatches from To
kio do not indicate clearly the probable
fate of these, except to exprdw the
ominous four that many may have froz
en to death.
Dairen, mentioned in the Tokio cable
is believed to refer to Tairen, across
the Straits of Peehili from Cheefoo.
Tairen is a short distance north of
Port Arthur and about 75 miles from
Cheefoo. The point where the Sankakn
Maru went aground is located in cables
as "off Cheefoo," probably near one
Of th5 Miao-Tao islands, between
Cheefoo and I'ort Arthur.
MOVE FAILS
following probable failure of the peace
negotiations, then a break must inevit
ably come, in keeping with the Amer
ican Sussex note threat.
The fact that the allies intend to
state their terms and aims is thought
here likely to put Germany diplomatic
ally "in a hole" and hence to make
peaco even more improbable than it now
seems.
Whether there will be an extra ses
sion of congress after March 4, depends
in a large measure on the prospects of
peace in Europe.
Best information today was that
president Wilson will desire to have thc
national legislature in session if there
is indication between now and the close
of the present congress that peace is
jecreu into tne situation wnicu iiukhi
be disturbing of America's delicate ad
justment in international affairs.
In ono group hero today, however,
it was suggested that the president
might desire to keep congress continual-
ly in session if the possibility or a
break with Germany continued to loom
as a possibility.
If the administration determined up
on a severance of relations with Ger
many it is believed the president would
"ask the advice of congress "presum
ably through a special message and
this despite the fact that he could take
such action without congressional au
thorization. The president himself intends to re
main close to Washington in order to
remain in best possible touch with uQ
velopments and he ha arranged for. nl
most daily personal or- telephone talks
with Secretary Lansing.
REPLY OF ALLIES
10 GERMAN NOTE
FOLLHREPARED
Peace Based On German
Made Plans Has Been
Rejected
ALLIES WILL MAKE CLEAR
AIMS FOR WAGING WAR
German Reply to President
Wilsons Peace Note Re
ceived Today
By Ed L. Keen
(United l'ress staif corrcspondcat)
London, Dec. 28. Dispatch of the
allies' reply to Germany's peace pro
posals is imminent.
Information today indicated that the
phraseology of the identical notes, to
be sent by all the entente nations, hail
practically been settled upon.
Kussia'8 reply couched in the terms
agreed upon by the alUesis already
en route to I'aris, where it will bo
handed the American ambassador, with
France's not, for transmission t Ber
lin sonic time wi bin the next few dys
From authoritative sources the Unit
ed I'rPss learns (he allied notes will
contain :
A rejection of a pence based on Ger-'
man made plans.
A vigorous worded summary of tli!t
principles for which the allies contend
they are fighting to remove the men
ace of militarism, of might over right,
of the rule of force over international
law.
Probably the allies will make still
clearer their aims ajid purposes by a
recital of the "crimes" for which (hey
propose to hold Germany responsible. .
The note, however, will not state
specifically the terms on which the al
lies will consent to talk peace. Such
terms must be inferentially drawn from
tne statement ot the alms and pur
poses for which the allies are fighting.
it win not consent to the peace confer
ence urged by Germany. It will net
admit the timeliness of the German
ftfi, nor of President Wilson's sug
gestions. At. the same time these allied notes
go forward to the central powers,
through diplomatic agencies of Spain,
Switzerland and America, the allies
will probably forward an identical not
answering President Wilson's peace
suggestions. This American note is
likely to point to the German reply
and elaborate eomewhat in mooting
the American president 's plea foi n
statement of principals. Piobably also
it will emphasize the importance to
America of the establishment, eventu
ally, of a peace of such permanence as
to prevent all recurrence in the future
of another such world disturbamle, ac
cording to authoritative information
today.
Such a peace, the nots will point out,
can only be achieved by victorious es
tablishment of thc principles foi vbieh
tho allies are striving.
The Daily Telegraph today, Corrobo
rating yesterday 's I'nited Press dis
patches asserts that thc entente notes)
ss approved by all the allies will set
forth "in plain words why the allies
are fighting and what they are fight
ing for.
In view of Washington dispatches,
intimating that President Wilson's
note and Secretary" of Slate Lansing '
original statement that the United
States was "on thc verge of war"
were based on the belief of American
officialdom that. German submarine
warfare shortly would force the put
ting into effect of the threat dlplo
fmatic severance with Germany, made
in the Sussex note, press and public
sentiment was noticeably less bitter to
day. Answer to Wilson
Berlin, via Suyville wireless, Dee.
28. General opinion in Berlin is that
tho German answer to President Wil
son 'b note "warmly appreciates the
president's intentions and perhaps adds
practical suggestions for conclusion of
peace." thc press bureau announced to
day. It said also that the Teutonic
answer had been handed to American
diplomatic representatives at all cen
tral powers capitals.
(iMBtmued cm page two.1
THE WEATHER
. .
Oregon: To
night and 9l kra v
generally fai;
easterly winds.
2SJ
