I
First
Maui County Fair!
Nov. 30, Dec. I and 2
Bsosi Th2
Maui County Fair
k IP
VOLUME XXIII.
WAIUJKU, MAUI CO., HAWAII. FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1916.
NUMBER 39.
EOS
Young Rancher
Weds Maui Bride
John G. Zabriskie And Miss Alexa von
Tempsky United At Beautiful '
Home Wedding
Kneeling before a gorgeous bank of
chrysanthemums In the Pumnolei
home of Mr. A. McKibben and Mrs. J.
M. Dowsett, John G. Zabrisk'e and
Miss Alexa von Tempsky were united
in wedlock last. Wednesday afternoon
at two o'clock by Rev. J. Charles Vil
liers, in the presence of immediate re
latives and a few family intimates.
The wedding ceremony was that of
the Episcopal Chnrch. Mr. McKibben
Is the groat-unclo and Mrs. Dowsett
the grandmother of the bride, and it
was their desire that the young couple
should enter the matrimonial state in
their home.
The bride was Riven away by her
uncle, Mr. McKibben, and Miss June
Mitchell was the maid of honor. Mr.
Zabriskie was attended by Roy von
Tempsky, a brother of the bride. The
ushers were Douglass Damon and
Frank A. Lufkin.
The bride wore a beautiful silver
gray wedding gown of the Colonial
style, which was brought out by a
gray hat trimmed with pink flowers,
and she carried a bonnet of pink orch
ids. The bridesmaid wore a rainbow
lavendar gown and a hat trimmed with
pale lavendor. She also carried a
boquet of pink orchids.
The groom, until a few months ago,
was connected with the C. Brewer
Company of Honolulu, but recently has
been associated with his brother-in-law,
Roy von Tempsky, in the manage
ment of the Erehwon ranch in Kula.
The bride is one of the young social
favorites of Maui and a daughter of
Mrs. Dora von Tempsky.
The wedding gifts to the young
couple were truly magniflcient and
most of them of great intrinsic value.
The groom gave the bride a very pretty
gold wrist watch.
Preceding the weddirfg on Wednes
day, a reception was held the night be
fore at the Puunene Social Club, where
nearly 300 invited guests spent, the
evening in dancing.
Among those present at the wedding
were the following: Mr. and Mrs. J. N.
S. Williams, Mr. and Mrs. Ben Wil
liams, Mrs. Jack Dowsett and Llewl
lyn Dowsett, Miss Ladye McFarlane,
Allen Davis, Douglass Damon, Madam
J. G. Zabriskie, Mr. and Mrs. Frank
Baldwin, Mr. and Mrs. Harry Baldwin,
Mr. and Mrs. Sam Baldwin, Mrs. H.
P. Baldwin, L. von Tempsky, Misses
Armine, Gwen and Lorna von Temp
sky and Master Errol von Tempsky,
Mrs. Herbert Mist and Miss Edith
Mist, George Copp and Miss Beckle
Copp, Dr. and Mrs. Duruey, Miss Emily
Wells, Rev. and Mrs. Villiers. C. D.
Lufkin and Frank Lufkin, A. McKib
ben, Mrs. J. M. Dowsett and Mrs. Dora
von Tempsky.
Puunene Chemist
Takes A Bride
A quiet wedding with only relatives
and a very few intimate friends pres
ent was solemnized a week ago Wed
nesday In Honolulu at the home of
Mrs. Agnes Judd on Wyllie Street,
when Miss Helen Kitchen of St. Paul,
Minnesota, became the bride of James
Hamilton Pratt of Puunene. The
house was prettily decorated with
quantities of green and masses of
white flowers, many of the latter
grouped Into wedding bells. The cere
mony was performed by the Reverend
Henry Judd, and Miss Anna Cathrine
McCue. daintily gowned In pink, was
the maid of honor. Mrs. Judd played
the wedding march. The bride was a
pretty picture in white. She wore a
heavy white silk suit and a most be
coming white picture hat, an can-led
a fragrant bouquet of white sweet
'pease and lacey fern. The groom's
mother, Mr. R. J. Pratt of California,
came Jn on the Matsonia to be present
at the marriage of her only son on
Wednesday. The bride has lived on
the Islands but a year, the greater part
of that time being spent at Puffnene.
The groom is a nephew of Dr. J. S.
Pratt and has lived on the island for
some time. After a honeymoon of
about two weeks on Oahu, Mr. and
Mrs. Tratt will return to Maui, where
they will make their home, as Mr.
Pratt holds a responsible position with
the Hawaiian Commercial Sugar Com
pany. .: . ,
HANA NOW HAS NEW
DEPUTY SHERIFF
Sheriff Clem Crowell has appointed
T. K. Wahihao to succeed the late E.
J. do Silva as deputy sheriff of the
Hana district. The apointment was
made by the sheriff on last Tuesday,
after he went to Hana on the Claudine.
The new sheriff came to Wailuku by
the returning boat in order to file his
bond and take tho oath of office.
Sheritf Crowell is still in Hana, at
tending to official business.
RARE ANIMAL COLLECTION FOR
FAIR MENAGERIE IS GROWING
Cameron Successful In Getting Attractions For Children
Now Has Daisy, A Monkey And Three Water
Buffalo Still Looking For Talking Birds
F. B. Cameron, the Maui County
manager, is going to be the most pop
ular man on Maul with the "kiddles"
Mexico, and then adds, laughingly,
on November 30, December 1 and 2
if he keeps on adding to the fair
menagerie, as he has during the past
week.
Not content with acquisition of
Daisy, the Honolulu baby elephant,
he started out this week to see it he
could not find something that would
serve to interest the hundreds of
children just as greatly, for he realiz
ed that all of them, especially on
children's dav, would not be able to
see and ride Daisy at the same time.
Cameron felt that he had somewhat
succeeded when he heard of three
water buffaloes on a r'.ce plantation
away up one of tho YVsihel valleys.
The fair manager started for the rice
plantation and without a great deal
of trouble convinced the Chinese
proprietor that he owed it to the youth
of Maui to have those buffaloes on
exhibition at the fair.
Now in parts of the islands water
buffaloes are a common sight, but In
others they are as rare as are
elephants. Such is the., case In most
parts of Maui, so Daisy is going to have
Competition to hold first place in the
affections of the younger visitors at
the fair. And especially is this so rs
Penhallow Back
From Coast Trip
Plantation Man Is accompanied By
California Newspaper Man Who
Is Son In Law Of C.B.Wells
"Some one has been knocking the
Great Northern. She Is as steady as
a big hotel," declares H. B. Penhallow,
manager of the Wailuku plantation,
who waa a returning passenger on
that vessel from the mainland, where
he has been for the last six weeks on
a pleasure trip. Penhallow made this
remark, as for some unknown- rea
son, U had been repeatedly stated on
Maul that the Great Northern was not
a comfortable vessel upon which to
travel.
C. B. Fowler, the business manager
of the San Francisco Chron
icle, accompanied Penhallow back to
the islands and was his guest In Wai
luku for several days, during which
time the California newspaper man
had an opportunity to see how a great
plantation is conducted. Fowler is
the son-in-law of C. B. Wells, former
ly manager of the Wailuku plantation.
Penhallow was In Los Angeles on
election night, the night before the
Great Northern sailed for the islands.
Ho said he went to the Burba nk
theater to watch the election returns.
It amused him that when presidential
returns were given there would be
but Blight applause, but as soon as the
returns from some "wet" county were
flashed on the screen there would bo
a great uproar.
reuhallow says he paid a visit to
Mexico, and then adds, laughingly.
"But I didn't go very far in."
That the Oriental parade is to be
one of the interesting fair attractions
was made evident by statements of the
members of the Japanese committee
at the regular Thursday meeting of the
various fair committees held in the
Town Hall yesterday afternoon. , It.
was stated that more than a thousand
Japanese would take part In the
parade and that some 'of the entries
would be unusually unique, and ethers
very beautiful.
HAWAIIAN BAND IS
COMING TO FAIR
Definite assurance has been
received that the Hawaiian band
of Honolulu is to be here for
all of the three days of the big
county show. When a request
was made to the Honolulu peo
ple for the band it was readily
granted, and the bandsmen
heard the news that they were'
to come to Maui with evident
satisfaction. There are thirty
four pieces in the Honolulu band
and it will add greatly to the
entertainment and amusement
for the fair, especially for the
dances and parades. The bands
men will arrive in Lahaina on
Wednesday afternoon, preceding
Thanksgiving Day, and remain
in Wailuku until Saturday eve
ning, the last day of the county
show. 1
And
one of the three buffaloes is a keikl,
a native daughter of Maul, and as a
woman writer would say, in spite of
its bulk, "it is Just too cunning for
anytlrng."
Cameron says: "Do you know, I nev
er stw a water buffalo before, and
that keikl got my eyes and I watched
its antics for half an hour." Now any
one, who knows just how busy the
fair manager is these days, will ap
preciate that the baby buffalo must be
worth watching, if he spent thirty
minutes doing so.
The securing of the buffalo whetted
Cameron's appetite and he started on
a search for more strange and amus
ing animalstolnterest the children. He
succeeded, for he remembered' that
Miss Irene Altken has a very old and
friendly monkey, whirh delights in cut
ting didoes for children. When Ca
meron explained his mission to Miss
.Uken, he was immediately told that
the monkey would enter the fair com
petition for the children's attention at
the county fair, with Daisy and the
water buffalo.
Cameron is not yet content and just
at present he is out sleuthing to find
a flock of parrots wh'ch will say "hello
kids," in all the languages of the is
lands. Sow you have a rare bird or
animal, anV want to add to the
youngsters' fun, make it a part of the
fair menagerie.
Red Cross Stamp
Sale Is Now On
Mrs. Frank Baldwin has been placed
in charge of the annual Christmas sale
of Red Cross stamps for the benefit
of the tubercular fund on this Island.
She has been sent $500 worth of
stamps and they are be'ng rapidly dis
posed of by a number of lieutenants
whom she has named. Ninety per
cent of the amount realized from the
sale of the stamps will go to the bene
fit of the Kula Sanitarium and ten per
cent to the American Bed Cross so
ciety. The main need to raise funds for
the Kula sanitarium at the present
time is to secure money with which to
erect a school room for the fourteen
tubercular ? hildren who are inmates of
the Kula institution.
Mrs. Baldwin has the following
persons assisting her in the distribu
t'on and sale of the stamps: Mrs. W.
II. Field. Wailuku; W. A. Baldwin.
Haiku; Duncan Murdock, Paia; Mrs.
Harry Baldwin, Paia, and nearly all
the stores and Jianks. .
Young Wailuku
Couple-Wedded
Thomas Cummings and. Miss Kala
ni Ross were married Wednesday eve
ning "in the Church of the Good Shep
ard, at 8:30 o'clock, by Rev. Villiers,
the pastor of the church. Only the
near relatives and friends of the
two families were present. George
Cummings, brother of the groom, act
ed as best man, and the bride was at
tended by Mrs. Ahung.. Cummings is
a young Wailuku man, who is in the
employ of the Kahului railroad. The
bri.de is a daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Manuel Ross. The young couple will
make their home in Kahului.
Expect Coke To Be
Named On Bench
The term of James L. COKE as sen
ator from the third senatorial district
on Oahu expired November 8 and he is
now eligible for the appointment to
the circuit court to fill the vacancy
caused by the resignation of Judge
Stuart. Coke's friends are hoping to
hear soon that he has reeeived the
appointment, for which It is generally
understood that he Is slated, says the
Advertiser. r
It was the general belief some time
ago that Coke would be appointed to
the bench, and he resigned his senator
ship with that in view. But the law
stepped in and interfered, it being
held that, notwithstanding his resigna
tion, he was ineligible for a federal
position until the expirafion of the
term for which he wad elected senator.
Coke left Friday on the Manna Loa
for a trip to Maui. It is possible that
shortly after his return he may re
ceive word of his appointment, as,
now that the dust of the presidential
election has, to some extent cleared
away, the Nation's chief executive will'
be able to settle clown to routine work,
such as signing commissions and writ
ing notes.
Coke was on Maui on legal business
last week where he met a number of
tho local Democrats. He went back to
Honolulu to meet Senator Phelan.
Death Takes
Young Teacher
After Three Weeks' Illness, Miss
Amy Swain, Greatly Beloved By
Her Associates, Passes Away
Far from the home of her parents,
and hrr dearest relatives and friends,
with the exception of one or two
friends or her school days. Miss Amy
Swain, the young Kahului kinder
garten teacher and community work
er, was called to the Great Beyond on
Tuesday of this week, almost at the
ery beginning of her life-work. Al
though far from her home, tender,
sympathetic, new-made friends, and
those of her school days, with all the
skill of three physicians, tried to the
very last to make her final days as
bright and devoid of pain as possible,
ami always with the deep hope that
her life might be spared for the work
for which she was so eminently fitted.
She came to Maui in September,
after graduating from the Wheeloek
Kindergarten Training School in Bos
ton, where she was given the highest
recommendation by Miss Wheeloek.
Another Wheeloek graduate, who
knew her when she was taking the
kindergarten work, says of Miss
Swain that she was very popular at
school, on account of her great good
sense and general ndaptibility to any
situation. She held several honor
offices in the school and was a member
of the student council. "Miss Swain
held the highest ideals, was unselfish
in her work, of great fidelity, known
to always keep her word, and was
quiet and unassuming," says this
friend of tho unfortunate young
woman.
A mass of flowers consisting of roses
ferns, daisies, orchids, and lilies, a
silent tribute of the many friends Miss
Swain had made on Maui during her
short residence, surrounded her casket
and the altar of the Kahului church,
when a simple funeral service was
said over her remains on last Wed
nesday afternoon. Rev. Dodge and
Rev. Pleasant conducted the funeral
service, Rev. Tleasant telling how Miss
Swain had endeared herself to his
family, with whom she had been liv
ing. The pallbearers were Captain Park
er J. S. B. McKenzie, D. C. Lindsay,
Frank Lufkin. D. W. Townsend, L. 11.
Mathews, Richard Lilllco, F. J. John
son and F. T. Bostwick. -
Miss Swain was ill three weeks.
First, with meningitis for two weeks,
and then erysipelas set In, of -which
she died. She was unconscious the last
week.
Rev. Pleasant accompanied the body
to Honolulu, from where it will be sent
to the home of her father, O. B. Swain,
in Clinton, Conn.
Woman Age 104
Dies In Hana
. After living for more than a century,
during which she saw the many
changes of government and customs
of the people in the Hawaiian Islands,
Mrs. K. Kuhlhewa died In Hana the
early part of this week. She was de
clared by members of her family to be
104 years old. Up to within three or
four days of her death, when she went
to bed with almost her first sickness,
she fully retained her faculties and
appeared to be in better physical con
dilton than many younger women. She
had six children, one of whom died a
few years ago. The old lady survived
her husband for twenty-five years,
who was noted in his time in Hana
for his great strength. The grand
children and great grandchildren of
the woman are so numerous that no
one in Hana will proffer a guess as
to their number. Mrs. Kuhihewa was
never outside of the Hana district in
all her lifetime, so kamaaina in the
district assert.
8
TO EXHIBIT PAPER
OVER 100 YEARS OLD
One of the very rare curios
which will be exhibited at the
Muui County Fair will be a
newspaper which was published
in the latter part of 1TJ'., which
gives an account of the life and
death of President George
Washington. Poems and obitu
ary facts, with heavy mourning
border, are on the front page of
the publication, and in spite of
the fact that the paper is nearly
a century and a quarter old, it is
in a good state of preservation
and can be read without dif
ficulty. The paper is the prop
erty of Mrs. I.oveland, the moth
er of Mrs. V. C. Lindsay, and
baa been treasured in her family
through all the years of the past
century.
Controversy Between Field
And Inter-Island Continues
Belgium Minister Appeals To America To Stop
Deportation Of Belgians To Germany
To Work In Munition Factories
HONOLULU, November 17 The controversy between Auditor
Field of the public utility commission and Attorney Warren of the
Inter-Island Navigation Company was continued yesterday afternoon,
when it came up before a meeting of the commissioners. Field says
that the $100,000 withheld by the company impared its financial stand
ing. The company denies that this is true. Another question has enter
ed the controversy to whether $250,00 out of $750,000 was paid to the
Wilder company .. a stock dividend.
The All-Americans beat the 25th infantry nine 6 to nothing yester
day. There was timely hitting and an errorless game.
Charles Forbes has resigned his captaincy in the national guard.
WASHINGTON, November 17 The Belgium minister has ap
pealed to the United States government to check the deiortationof
Belgians to Germany. He declares Belgians are being compelled to all
intents and purposes to fight their own soldiers.
Continental, commercial and national banks of Chicago have agreed
to loan $5,000,000 to China.
Government today starts probe to investigate the charge that there
is a great collusion of industrial interests to keep up. the high price of
living. The investigation will be made upon the inter-state basis.
BERLIN, November 17 The Bundesrat of Prussia is discussing
the advisability of raising an army for home protection. A census has
been ordered to determine how many and who are eligible.
LONDON, November 15 New South Wales coal strike is grow
ing serious. Fifteen thousand industrial concerns have been closed
down for lack of fuel. Two hundred thousand employees are out on
strike, state Melbourne dispatch.
NEW LONDON, November 17 The submarine Deutschland
sailed last night on its second voyage from America to Germany. It
is estimated that it took cargo which is worth $2,000,000. The cargo
consisted of rubber, nickel, zinc and bar silver.
LONDON, November 17 A Russian steamer loaded with muni
tions blew up at Archangel dock. There were 150 killed and 000
persons injured by the explosion.
CHICAGO, November 17--Franklyn Roosevelt declares life of
American navy is at stake in fight to get control of portion of California
oil fields.
HONOLULU, November 16 Queen Liliuokalani received the
riders today on the lanai of the Washington Place home today,
as a part of the Kalakaua Day celebration. She may attend the recep
tion tonight, which is to be given by Princess Kawananakoa, where fully
1000 persons are expected to be present.
Emil Berndt says that .the Chamber of Commerce amendment re
garding the raising of funds for the promotion committee is desirable.
It is intended to merely smooth the rough edges and is desirable to all
the islands, he says.
Peter Lazarenk has been held on a $1000 bail on a charge of man
slaughter, after his car had run over a person who had his legs crush
ed and afterwards died at the emergency hospital.
Inter-Island attorneys, with the company's vice-president and
auditor, cross questioned Gooding Field today. The statement is made
that the material of the company depreciated more than $400,000 and
they deny that this amount went into dividends.
PARIS, November 16 French and Russians, with a four mile
front, are pursuing the Bulgars in Monastir. They have recaptured
portion of Bicssoirc.
The British have captured village of Karakaska on the river Stru
ma. BERLIN, November 16 Germans and Bulgars have retired to
new positions on Cerna.
The British were repulsed at Grandcourt.
The French have lost a section recently gained at Saillisel, on
northern edge of St. Pierre Vaast Woods.
- PETROGRAD, November 16 General Mackensen, who is re
treating in Dubrudja, is burning villages.
LONDON, November 16 The Serbians have captured Tatavtsi,
near Monastir.
German aeroplanes have killed four civilians.
EL PASO, November 16 T. O. Hoemuller, a German merchant
at Parral, wife and baby were killed by Villa men, because he exhibit
ed ears cut from Carranza soldiers by the Villaists.
CHICAGO, November 16). M. Bell, ecretary of national as
sociation of Master Bakers, says that twenty per cent of the bakers in
America are out of business, on account of the soaring price of labor.
WIRELESS MARKET QUOTATIONS
vSKSSION 10:30 A. M. November 17, 1916.
Sugar Price at N. Y. 96 degrees ,
liwa Plantation Company
Hawaiian Commercial & Sugar Co ,
McCrydo Sugar Company
Oahu Sugar Company
Olaa Sugar Company
Pioneer Mill Company
Waialua Agricultural Company
Honolulu Brewing & Maltiug Company
Mineral 1'roducts Company
Honolulu Consolidated Oil Company
L'ngels Copper Company
Mountain King Mine
Hawaiian Sugar Company
Onomea Sugar Company
Hawaiian Pineapple Company
Oahu Railway fc Land Company
Mutual Telephone Company
Hilo Railway (7 per cent Pfd.)
Hilo Railway (Common)
San Carlos
Honokaa ,
35.X
62.00
mi
50. X
43.
33.
20. A
1.30
3.60
4.75
0.50
43.00
56.
63.?h
160.00
20.00
.
17.'
12.00
a
)
