V
(:,'noV2Si31
LATEST CABLED SUGAR QUOTA!
C. a viZKTur UR;-.n
Nnv( 111, f10 lt twonty1.
four hour' Talhfiill, T Tern
fretnre, Mis. HP; Mm, 7fl.
Weather, putt cloudy, v ,
' :. Cents, Dollar
W Centrifugal! N. Y.-'per lb. twr to
Prleo, Hawaiisa barii 6.52 11 3010
I,sst previous quota- "
tion. , fl.C5 . 159.60 !
v..J--,,
111 I I I I I I 1 . C I I I I M . I I
V(L. 1X. KO.
BULGAKS
BACMWID0RONT
... i n
SERBIANS AND FRENCH,'
BRITISH DRIVING THEIR ENEMY BEFORE THEM
IN MCED0.NIA, CLOSING IN UPON 1I0NASTIR;BUT
' TEUTONS CLAIM GAINS
VON : MACRENSEN RETIRES
. . (Associated, Press
PAK1S, November 17 lhe pendulum of the great war has swung
lack to the Balkans once more, and the fighting reported M
Macedonia yckterday held the interest of the entire world in a tight.
grip.
It was there that the Allies pursuing their Avowed intention 6f
keeping the German and the German allied armies busy on every,
front, successfully launched a new series of attacks which netting
them large gajns of ground, still further embarrassed the Berlin and
V icnna general stalls, ,
'Hie pressure. along the Varna
has been steadily increasing for
Wednesday broke down the resistance of the Bulgarians and Ger
mans defending Monastir, compelling the Teutonic armies in that
arena to. fait back before the battering of the reorganized Serbian
and Italian forces, while farther to the east in the vicinity of Doirsri
and aMong the Struma river the Allies hacked their way forward,
capturing, towns of importance
. munitions And. supplies. . A
; ' i -v .. . " . 'BULGAR. iIlf E
'v criusly Endangered thewhole of
) ?9rtr additional villages have
t y'i J i rwi'the east bank of the
7ia(l.iyiat,r the' Bulgarian and
jsiJVve been unfortunate,
torifj.t Vl this arena says that the
. njltepared positions on the
wardu ''Af't tatpmrnt iimued by the
. .jfSH4rbianii, whd have lxpo
. Milijit!'fron4!alonka, have rnjilurcd
(iniloa, outhoairt of Monantir.
Othrr war drapatchea toll of the bomtiardoipnt of Bucliarest, capitnl of
Rumania, by German aviator. They dropped a number of hombu on the city,
killing four civilians and wounding twenty others.
From The sea-cone of war yesterday came news that the Creek steamer
Barbara and the Norwegian steamer I.rkkcn have been sunk, but whether
by submarine or rain is not given out.
The oiticlal communique itumpd from the French war office last night says
that the French, with their forres augmented by Russian regiments whieh
recently landed at Halonika, have cut
until they are now within four miles of Monastir. The Bulgarian army on
this sector, defeated and thrust from its 'positions, is retreating, pursued by
the Allies.
On an another sector, west of the Cerna river, where British and French
are cooperating, the Bulgarians hum abandoned their principal positions, and
toward Yiirascbok the French and Herbinna are making good progress.
On still another purt of this front, in Macedonia, near the Htruma river,
the Brilinh have assumed the offensive and have defeated the Dulgurinns,
espturintr the village of Karakasha.
Jo tiie iiubrutlja district, wnere Berlin asserts there have been but minor
engagements, the Bucharest despatches as well as the accounts from Petrograd
declared that von Mackensen is still in full retreat, hammered aontlnuslly by
the pursuing Russians and Rumanians. The German array Is reported to bn
burning villuges and ravaging the country through which it la failing bock.
fa Transylvapia the reports from
Allies, There the troops under the command of General vo Fafkenhayn have
lieen successful in their attacks upon the battling Rnmaniaua and have forced
them out of their positions in the Alt and Jiul valleys. .
The Rumanians are reported by Bncbarest to be falling back toward Areful
end Radlcinesti. In the Hurduk Pass region the Germans are reported to have
taken K'OO prisoners, and the Russians who have been attacking the Germans in
Moldavia are falling back, their lines broken by the superior German artillery.
Berlin flutly denies that the Rumanians and Russians have recaptured the
town of Ronnscio. J
BEAR AND EAGLES FIGHT FUBIOUSXT
Farther north where the Russian Bear and the Double Eagle of Oormnny
nre tearing each other fiercely, the buttle rages still but without definite gains
ly either side. All along the (ialiciun line the great guns are roaring day and
night, and as fnr north as Ria on the Baltic seethe fighting, is ebbing ami
(lowing. '
In the Italinn-Austrinn rcjjion there may or may not bo much to report
when the veil of censorship is lifted. At present the situation is clouded by
the eonBicting reports from either side, but It is believed that great events are
taking place. On the west front the French hy a series of determined charges
recaptured a portion of Vressoire, which the Germans oeeupied Wednesday.
WESTINGHOUSE COMPANY ADVANCES ALL SALARIES
(AssocUUd rrass by Ftdsral Wlrslsss.b
I'fTTHBlIRGH, November 17 More
thnn four thonsand members of the of
Hue force and other employ of the
WcstinghouNe Electric Company yester-
'
ATTEilSD :BY
F02S; FAFXING .
AIDED BY RUSSIANS AND
IN TRANSLYVANIA FIGHT
by Federal Wireless.)
, , "
.. J
river, and south of Monastir which
months became acute Tuesday'anf
and many prisoners together with
,
ENTMNCER$D'-:'''r:
ne Bulgarian linein that region,
been evacuated by the retreatin
river, and Berlin is even compelled
Teutonic arms in tat theater of!
1 he Berlin despatch regarding the
Bulgars "have rctincd to new ljut
Cerna river."
London bureau of information ycdtonliiy
cooperating with th Frrnch and Brit'mh
th important townn of 'Tatavtui and
their wuy forward against the Bulgarians
Bucharest are not so encouraging to the
day were notiled by the mansgement
thiit the company hue derided to adopt
a bonus system. This will add more than
twelve per cent to the salaries these
men ure now receiving.
HONOLULU. HAWAII f ERRITORY. ;f FRIt)Af .CnOVEMBER
1 X' ' -
SCENES on the Balkan front where the Serblan"and "their British, Russian and French allies j
are . reported to be driving back the Bulgarians; Who are aided by the Germans and Austrian!.
Tb upper picture shows the first detachment of, Russian troops on the march from Salonika, where
they landed, to the righting line. Below is a pic ure of group of Serbs resting behind the lines.
The map gives an idea of the relative positions of this' fightinr front and the points at which the 1
Allies in iminr
V?
(Assoctsts4 rsi by redsral WUelssa.)
l,ONIX)Nr November 16 In view of
the statement by Walter Bunciman,
president of the board of trade, on the
food shortage before the house of com
mons yesterday,' a group; of house sseu.
hers declare that they will support a
motion that the manufacture of intoxi
cating liquors be prohibited.
Thousands In Big
Demonstration For
President Wilson
(Assseuud rrass by Federal Wireless
WASHINGTON, November 17
Ten tbouatad people turned eut Uat
night for a monster demonstration
in honor of President Wilson's re
election. ' The . crowds seeded by
bands and announcing their coming
with sslvos of bombs marched to
the north portico of the White
House where they cheered until Mr.
and Mrs. Wllsop appeared. The
demonstration was in charge of
Joseph Tumulty, secretary to Mr.
WUson.
1 IIIA ' - I fl m I .s. ' T atasjV , M . S 1 rs IsH 10. M IV si I
SoS SUNK -( 'I
Twelve. Thousand Ton Vessel lh ':!rr 5
Destroyed Says Berlin y' .J - - Jj
' K i 'T firirit Kv'7 .
(AssoclrtoS trsss by rsdsrsl Wlrslsss) dLZWzVLJL , vj " A
BKRIJN November HI A German ' : ' -v.-, '
submarine on November 15 torpedoed " "mmm imm
mimm mmmw vilustasmurderi
'mmSiM' ' BE LOANED JHINA GEt?MAN MERCHANT
IM I I I
' J: : ,'! vf:
Chicago Banking Interests Agree
To Advance Money and
Lansing Approves
' (Associated Ptsss by rsderal WlreUss)
' WASHINGTON, November v 17 A
t'Hn of S5,(H)0,000 to the government of
China has been engineered by Dr; Well
ington Koo, Chinese ambassador to the
I'nited Htntea. The underwriters of
(he loan are the interesta back 'of the
Continental. Commercial and National
Banks of Chicago. , '
It is understuod that the whole nego
tiation while in progress was submitted
o Secretary of State Lansing, who is
aaid to hav thbrouglily approved of
the termt of the loan. It la believed
lhut these include the hypothecation of
Certain of the
taxes of the . Chinese
government over
period "of ; three
years.
Reports declare that Doctor Koo
mde efforts to ruise this money in Ku
rope, but faibd, ami was forced tH
come to America before the detail
rould be arranged end the money se
cured. NOVELIST-DEAD -!
(Associates 'rase by Fedsrsl Wireless.)
NKW YORK, November 1ft Accord
ing to a , eablegram received he'e'.
lh'iirv 8ienklewics, author of "Quo
Vailts" end - severe! other famous
works of historical fiction, is dead at
Vevey, Switzerland.
1916 SEMI-WEEKLY
...':! '
'!"fC"""'T, y :' 4.;;,,
Wife and Baby Also Slaughtered
By Special Order of the
Bandit Leader
(Assectstsd frm by rsdsrsl Wtrelse)
KL PAKO, November l(Wlt Is re
ported here that Theodore lloemuller,
a German merchant at Parrel, Chihua
h, his, wife and baliy have bees
killed by Vlllistss. .
According to two refugees, the Ho
muller execution was ordered ty Villa
in a frenxy of anger becanje Hne
muller had displayed in a show window
ears cut from Cnrranzistan, together
with a letter eriticluing Villa. ; ,
Munition Explosion '
Kills Many Scores
.isoeaMd rrsss by rsSsrs) Wireless.)
J.ON1.MJN, November 17 Despnt
dies to the Kxchauge Telegraph
A'ewa Ageucy from its Htockholm
correspoudeat last night reports thut
150 meu were killed and 0SO more
jt less seriously Injured when a
quautity of ammunition with which
the Russian steamer Barou Hreeeni
was loaded exploded as she lay at
her dock in Archangel unloading
uer cargo.
tf,
M WHOLE
' "ill. mmm
W t. rnrDiPAioTn:
UrHHtLVSHIULIUUHIIdlU,-
iiiTrnuriir m: r
Assistant Secretary Roosevelt
Declares" Government Must
Control Some Wells
EXPLAINS U. S FIGHT
TO MINING ENGINEERS
Naval Service Helpless Unless
Court Struggle Ends In Vic
tory For Uncle Snm
f
(AssclUA rr.ts by r-,lrt,l Wlrsrrss)
CHIf!AfiO. NowmlM, ir The life
of the I'nited nv i st, stake
in the fl nh t of tli.- t-".-,l. i :. I ;;ivernirient
to retain euntrol cf . .;.,, f the
Calif onuH oil li. Id :,s i iul( am re
serves, di'.lnnil f iHiil I , ii 1 1. Kimnevelt,
assi-ttant socri'tiiiy of tin- imvy. in an
addrsfl here y-Ki'Titiiy b.-fmi. the Con
gress of Ami-rii.in Mining l!ninerrs.
The SIMS her reviewed the histnrv of
the strnjrgle nf the gnwrnmenT to es
tablish these resei-Mi nf oil Innd be-
ymnmg wilh the I n it wtilnlr:inl or
ders to; the pres."il .m-oitm nf ityits filed
by the ftovernnieiii i,. reinver billions
of do)larn worth of the nil lands now
being .-tried.
1 he fortunes in oil Inn I which both
the government luel privute imlividual
seek teontn ,-ire is the !-nn .loannin
valley .., flekls. AsiHtiint .Secretary
Roosevelt said:
','," t hp siiirowi of the government's
winning the ligil fipbt for the Califor
nia oil .fields depends the very life and
existence of the lviitol Mutes uavy.
t nhss. the gvi ninejit enn n-tain the
withdraws! fields in California ns petro
leum reserve under control of the new
departjMnt, the imvy HH helpless.
'y"(Hl Hieiins incrPMsed sneed. Onl
With unlimited oil.sdtiulk' cd Ik Kit.
''ItClM'J ttrl nMoisi fbAcruising
rndiim, that make, a rel navy. The
J-l'tHiHI",'. II'KJ,. wriiq
fl4. u..1 nil, Vth qUI
"f'!;V vf!th He;t nited
. l,n,M knot bat-
CWtter nil
tin -i Is asv
tut can
tjerhip. withnut.oil such Shipa ennnot
ue'imiii.
r-.-e.
if
Carries With Her More Than $2r
00000 Worth of Cargo For
German Peop'e
-
(AsMclst4 Press by iMlsrsl Wirsltsn.i
NKW l.(lIK)N, I olilittctivllt. ,
veiuliri I ,' The Iti-ruitm merchant null
niuiihi i)eiitM-ii(iiiil Htiumod out of this
poit List nil i, piiTiKiug en., roiilo muuy
merchiiiit vehsel mid the Aiin-i iciin
eiuisi-i I '('loiiili.H. In Kpite bf the hour
it huh hulf punt one oVIock in the
morning !lm iiiiM'rliaut ctuft souiuli'd
their whistle to i he tli-pnrting sulimn
rine uml the m-:i r h lihl n of the great
ii iiU'-. iwuMitii plnved nvctln' dingy
hull nf the uiidirn uler craft in compli
ment. I lie I'l lltsi Ii 1,1 llil W?IM tOHTll nut of
the liiiilinr by two tugM provided fur
lu i b i , uKierii orwnrdiiig t'mn-
p"ny, s j. .-- t.r the iilnaarine in this
iiihiitr. t'lipl. I' ll.,:jlh nud other
otlt, i:iIm nf the iiitiipnny accoiupnnieil
the uniiiiiiu ini' In Slid,., rot limed on
the tiiii.
It ii i-hl iniiited that jmore thart
JJ.IMIII.IHMI vmh Hi nf iiiIiIkt, Kins, nickel
and Imr tiilvei eninpOHiid the cargo of
the Mililmirine uheii ie steamed unny
from her wlinif here.
I.' i l. ihlll .,11, la hf.,1 lu,.. ..,,..1..
to ilynninite h.-r just before she left
i nul.l nor l- nut lienl icnled lust niuht.
Cnpliiin Koenig of the (lertnhn super
siilniiuriiie lleiitw-hliiiiil yesterday suid
thut l.'D Ioiih nf Hie iron bnllust of the
)eiitM-lil:inil will lie inliVeited into sou
venirs of the hlxe of u dollar. They
will linve n relief impression of the
Den I mil Innd on one side nnd a signn
tiiie i.f dipt ii I n K we nig on the other,
ami these nill lie Hold for the lieuefit of
(!ei'iii:iii uiiluwH uml ni phnns . bereaved
by I he :ir.
,f,
P
tl
( Anwiciiisri Prsu by Psdsrsl Wlrslssi.)
III K'I l.N", NnwiMber 17 Tliv' nrgnui
.iitiiin of ii " ll"iue Army" in (lerin.inv j
is lii-int: iliseu.iHi'il the RiiitdCHrul Mid
in thiN i nei tinn u census has been or
deieil. The I it n under iliseussimi eon I
templi'le-. the or"iiiiir.!ilion of all iii
li:in- nut now i.illed or subject tu cull
for Hi" regular unny into a greHt i nny i
for Inline proteetiun. All civiliiiiis sub
jeet to Mu h ii legiilntion will be listed
under the icnuiis ordered.
DEUTSCHLAND ON
WAY 10 BREMEN
NUMBER 4S80
llllltKVtiit I
I it
THEIR BEHALF
Belgium's Minister To United ;
' States Calls Upon Uncle Sam
To Put An. End To German
Methods In Invaded Country
...
THOUSANDS TORN FROM HOME
TO WORK FOR CONQUERORS
Unless Movement Is Stopped En
tente Allies May Refuse .Per';
mission For America To, Con
tinue Relief Work In Nation'
f Assodsts rrsss by rtdsrel Wireless)
WASHINGTON. November':
17 Mr. Ilavciiith, BeU ' ; ;
gian minister to this cotintry ha
filed a. formal appeal to the people
and government i of the United
States to stop tAe deportation if '
Belgians from their native land ly
the Teutonic iftviders. ".;v;
In his communication to the of- ,
ficiajs of .the stalc '-department ' ?
through which flie ' message was :
given, puUWityV'last night.i, Mr
1 favenith 'declared that Tm ft part, r
of, the truth has oeen iold of Jhe.' r
(lerman outrages against the peojlf ' '
" o'f,Auuuui ovyrriiji , My
gians are being eompellcd td Jtll fiK v'
Tr2-.i
their own courttry by the Invaders '
Thousands Deported , ' '.."..
"The (lerman governor general . , ,v
of the conquered provinces of'Cel- "f
jium." says the eommunkation, fis- -forcing
thousands upon thousands ' ,
of the unemployed . Belgians to go .
to (iennany to- work til the tjuar-
ries. and in the. factories engaged ' '
in turning out concrete for ust in
the army. Others are compelled" to '
vork in the lime. Vns under tjje
retext that they .are charge uprr
n public charity." ::';. '
After detailing otiier instances of
the action of the German govern- ;
Hint in Bejgiimt.and the effect it is '
uving upon the; Belgians and their
oinitry. the communication goes
on to state thatrV ; . .,
"The .goveritineni( Belgium
wishes to file with 'the people of
the United States and jsith the gov-ernnu-nt
of this Country its ener
gelic protest against "this coercive '
neasure which the authorities now' . .
in control of affairs' in a large por-w t
tion of Belgium haye 'seen fit to, ;' V
idopt. It is contrary tolthe law o(
intions and the laws ot humanity,
and the Belgian government asks '
that the United States, take active : .
measures to intervene in oHder to V
sccurc l'lc ceSSStiort ojf (tlepoftation
of Bell'ian snlilerte' inb I......
of those already 'deported."
. l. .Mi ' .
M.AY STOP RELIEF WORK
The order of Quartermaster-General
nn HanlM'rxweig that Belgians 'must
work for the (lermans' reported
from Amsterdum, baa crested a strong,
fil ling in Kugland Ksinst continasnee
of the work of the American ommis
cion fur Relief, in Belgium.
It is contended there that, leaving
aside the ipiestion whether the order U
is violntion of the convention of The
Mugne, it i hardly reasonable to ex
.et the Kntente governments to find
end pay. for food which the commission,
distributes in Belgium, when they are
placed in the position of feeding at
1 1 en- own expense persona who are
in king ft the Uennan army.
MRS. BOISSEVAINE ILL
(Assoctstwl yss by rSsrt Wireless)'
i ns A N KM:, Noveuir 17 Mra
lues Millliulland Boissevaine, who has
been denperately ill in this city for
hi fine time was reported slightly better
lust niuht, following the sixth transfu
sion of blood, her physicians Lav'
uiui'e.
'.S't.i
