' 'Vll'SOEJ'
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair and somewhat warmer to-day;
to-morrow .fair; fresh winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 40; lowest, a.
retailed weathor, mail and marine reports on pago 1 3.
IT SHINES FOPv ALL
VOL. LXJpCIV. NO. 78.
NEW YORK, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1916. Copurtpht. 1U. bv the flan Pmtino and PublUMng Aiioitatton.
ONE CENT
Jerier Cllr and Newark. J TWO CENTS.
: TEST OF 8 HOUR!
LAW IN COURTS
NEXT THURSDAY
Injunction Suits of Union
Pacific or Santa Fe First
to JJe Heard:
HAlMiOADS HOLD UP
5,(100 OTHER ACTIONS
'Attonu'.v-tJeneral Gregory
Hay Agree to Less
Costly Method.
COJJPOIfATIONS FEAH
WILSON'S NEXT MOVE
"Big Foui''Brotherhoods to
Join American Federa
tion of Labor.
Wasiii.voton, Nov. 16. Text of the
constitutionality of the Adamson eight
hour law probably will be based on
the Injunction nults of cither tho
ti 1., .
i n. . acne or tne Mania Fc rail-
road, it became known here to-day.
these petitions to lio.d the law's ,
irrectivenesa on January 1 nre set for
rgument next Thursday. They are !
iw r .
IT.e nrjfl nf Inn pntilnmnlnll T. nnn . '
Hons, and as time Is the Important eh-
nient In the present litigation tho
choice probably will fall on them.
The Department of Justloo attor
neys continued to-day working out
their course of action. It has Ihtii
filr.y definitely decided now to take a
Ingle case the decision on which will
Mnd every other court of lower Juris. I
oictlon on the sumo suits. Whether
Attorney-aenerul Gregory will wulvo
Ihe necessity of nilng suits bv everv
- road in tvery Jtimi1aT"dIs"frrct"haH not
wen announced jet. Tho rallroid
mn have sent word to him they win
iireo to any proposition he offer.
Business .Mm I nmlrmn l.nr.
The litigation has excited Imprest
In
wider circle than was anticipated. Fol
lowing the report from New York that fir a loan of 5,i)00,00o from the Con
the newly organized .National Industrial tlnental ntul Commeiclal National Itank
Conference Hoard had voted a resolution of Chicago. The proceeds have been
in condemnation of the law the National placed to the credit of the Chinese Gov
Cuuiicll of the Chamber of Commerce of eminent.
the I'nlted States decided to take up The loan, which Is secured by a tax
aiscusston of the law at a special meet-i
Ing to-morrow,
The meetings of the National Council
luue been arranged In ndvance of the
s't'Slons of the Newlands commission so
uiai a presentation of their views on .
the eommlsslom They "will consider n '
Wltlon to the Adamson law. strike pre. I
vsntlon and wage fixing by the Interstate,
..iuii iinesuons migiu lie put before ,
wommerce commission.
Henry It. Towne of New York will
present n plan for tho prevention of the
Interruption of public utilities by strikes
at to-morrow's session. Many railroad
an1 financial experts from the big cities
of the country have been Invited to
testify before the commission.
ROADS HALT LAWSUITS.
Managers Await Wort! From Greg
ory ns to Injunctions.
New York roads yesterday withheld
ppllcatlons for Injunctions to halt the
operation of the Adamson eight hour
law. This forbearance was due to the
dlre not to encumber the courts with
further litigation until tho attitude of
Attorney-General Gregory has been
i maae clear. Pnless he waives the neces-
. lty, the local Judicial district will he 1
mm puns, no is expecieu io .
rrant permission for the roads to hold
a limited numuer of suits ror tne
freseut.
As tnnnv of the railroad heads are to
he In Washington on Monday to attend
the hearlnqs of tho Newlands commls-
'Ion It Is probable the decision of the !
Attorney.Genernl will be made then, II.
snowden .Marshall, United Stntes Attor
r.ty In this district. Is in favor of trying
wit thu constitutionality of tho law
through a tingle action.
Mr Marshall's suggestion Is that one
cafe ie sel- ted for a test ; that this
cave be submitted to a District JudKc
ho would tender an Immediate de
tlilon sustaining the constitutionality of
the a-'
Jn.llelal Code Drtllles Mrtliixl.
lender section 53S nf the ludlcl.il
l. in which It Is said, "Any case iny
,hlrh Ihp ronHllliitlnnnllt v nf nnv hu'i
''the I'nlted States Is drawn Into ques-1
"in an appeal Is to be taken direct from
Ihe Ulstrl t court to tho Supreme
Court." a quick decision on the law
euld bv obtained.
I'oi the present December 2 ha been
et ,1 tin. date for .iri.umi.nl nn the
petition of the Krle nnd New York
ttntrai flefore that time the situation
I' likely In take snver.il Mhlfls Ilia: will
ihariKi' whole comiilexlon, The com
lnlmii apiioiuted to observe the opera
tions of the i klit hour law will con
tribute several surprises, according to the
Ple-enl viewnnlnt.
This commfssion, which Includes Knows about the contributors to the inur-Majoi-ricn
(jeoigu W Goetlials. George der fund.
Itublee r, Udward K. Clark, will begin .
: " "r- " neiui,. io.. 1
"tne It will receive Its Instructions oil
the aW f.0.n tPMdent Wilton, This
f t l one that carries much Itopo to
he "Hig Four" They confidently ex
lct the president will Interpret the
plr t ,f tne law to the commission as
he ex, j ,,,, it i. ihe railroad brother-
oii)'nlssiin Is contlneil solely to nb
er ii ire However, both factions tin
l' I ami that tho commission will not
IT': ui withom settling In their own
luli.On the exact meaning of th law, It
tlKOil lliei l,pll,.in Irm lloil l.i.p'illslL lhC0 SI'CII 111 IllOOCni I nil.--. I- r..-.-.inm tneir Homes nil. I nil-Ill' i-p . --..i, our mr.
of it. f,,r . ". "'11.1." ,,;,r.i the sun al the rate of I.13I.SIB, lulls posted Ihioim mut Pails higned
m ., f ' "T 'V'lKH1'";",l , !mIIpm a il'iv 1 1 ceo rdlng to Ihe Hrv. Mar- bv 11 e o'llclnls Invito -very .seholder
i-r .criri.'bi'ingi'i .iZ , ' "" """, hr.uw un,x iwmuk'
, .:-! i-W..'rM ..emands w,
$2,000,000 LEFT BY
. PARTNER OF BARNUM
Stnte t Oct J?B0,000 in Taxes
From Fortune, of Willlnm
Washington (,'olc.
An nwirnla.il of the estate of William
Washington Cole, the circus man who
amassed n fortune a partner of I. T.
Ikirnuin, was concluded yesterday by
Henry VC. Johnson, tax appraiser lor
Queen, nnd showed a valuation In ex
ceew of $2,000,000. The State of New
York will share In thu fortune to the ex
tent of $S0.000 In the Miape of taxes.
Mr. Cole died March 10, 1915, at his
home at Crydcn's I'olnt. Whltestone.
leaving In his will $550,000 and the use
of hl real estate to tils widow and
amounts ranging from $1,000 to $10,000
to seventy relatives, other bequeata
were made to the Actors Fund and other
cnarmrs.
Vagueness In the terms of th will has
thrown tti document Into mention.
Sevcial of the relatives for whom nrn.
vision wiim maile In the form of annuities
have ,lled iiiul tlielr heirs are claiming
the annuities. n the Surrogate's Court
It wan decided that tho annuities should
revert to the estate, hut this decision was
reversed In the Appellate Division and
ine lourt or Ajipcala now has the ques
tion before It.
The appraisal showed Mr. Cole's es
tate consisted of $1,225,042 In railroad
nnd city bonds and $918,500 In real es
tate at 32 Union Square and 19 Kast
sixteenth street and the estate at White
stone. $30 SHOES IN 3 MONTHS.
All
Women's Fontnrsr In Have
Cloth Tops, tyi)a Maker.
HotfTov, Nov. 1C. Khocfl at S30 a nalr 1
.Uciocl at the annual meetln
utv nioe ami icatiier 111111 m.iiiiv. '
..,f ,. wnnt ,,, f
'hey will have to pay a good round
lL cture ..rSilS
that In three months all women's shoes
wl" he. I"a',,, w1"1 l lotl1 ,on"- Therc ls
no need for leather for soles except next
. . .. ..
Itllbber and tlbre soles
"r,! l,,'tter than the average sole leather, i
i:,.V;j.....;;" . . ! r". .
.:rja":..'. u,u"! lu """
(in,..,-.. ' v-.. i- i-i i . , i It Is expected III army circles that
,,,r, llr iV,h v,, 1'1" ,,,.t,1mlrrJ ordeis to Ucn. Pershing for his with
h ' ,N ' u ! AwIIoii of 'drawal will go forwnr.1 within a week
cntlon that there would lie no advance
in the price of shoe leather unless the
warring nations make too big a demand
"n surplus stock now In the hands
,,, ,, a ulllH. however were declared
to lie scarce.
CHINA BORROWS $8,000,000.
l.onn Mndp liy Chicago Hank
-For
I'ulillp uhi-rlitlnn.
Wasiiinoton. Niiy. lfi.--Annnuiice.
inent was made at the legation to-ulght
that the Chinese Government, through
Minister Ivon. has concluded lieirntlatlolis '
levied by the Government, will be of-
Savlncs Hank 111 a few daxs
haimgs JtiaiiK in a few aaxs
elgn financial enterprises to bo under-.
taken by a middle Western banking In-
s Itu Ion. a ton m y
V an-lng
I
PROHIBITION FOR BRITAIN.
Cfforl Will He Mnde to Stop Mann
fneture of l.liinor.
T.nvwi. iiv. If,. A million lbftt fhs I
manufactuie of Intoxicating lhiuor in'Ac-flnn on Grn. Funston's Itmurit
Great Hrltaln should be prohibited will
be made In the House of Commons, ac-1
cording Jo notice given by a group of
memncis aner me specca lasi nigiu ot
Walter Itunriman, President of the
Hoard of Trade, on the food situation.
The members of the group, their no
tice stated, will move that this prohibi
tion should be Imposed In view of Mr.
Itunclman's grave statements respecting
the shortage of corn, sugar and other
foodstuffs.
........ mvnerren
CURTJJT PASSPORT CANCELLED.
r, s. Mslr Department Arts In Case
of Itoatnn Writer.
fifiMiat Cable Ite'txilch lo Tub Six.
I,o.roN, Nov. 1(1. It has been learned
hUpp ii.,. i Hip stntn Denartmeut has can.
celled the passport Issued to I). Thomas
l-limil III uosioii, mi" ......... .... . -si.
Germany In behalf of the London ilmcs
under eiver of Ills American passport
Mr, Curtln, whose nrtlcles on German
ci ndltlons nre attracting much attention,
is now facing an embarrassing position,
as he Is booked for a series of lectures in
Kngllsh cities but will find hlmelf III
the position of an alien travelling In
Kngl'ind without a passport. The llrlt
Ish authorities strongly disapprove Mr.
Curtln's method of obtaining news frcm
Germany,
BAFT SUSPECT ON WAY HERE.
Ciirdlnnlc Mnrder I'lind
.
(ollrclor
1 .,....i i,.
Arrr-tr.l in ieni.
Antonio Cardlnale. who Is said lo have
collected the ti,M fund used to procure
, the murder of Harnct llaff two years ago,
im.i been cintured, Cardlnale fled the
codiitry and enlisted In the Italian iinn.
' It became known last night that tlie
prisoner has been run down and Is being
brought back by William Herman Hlack.l
UIIJilKlii ' "V . ,. ,
Assistant I list-, let Attorney, and an Hal
l.i ii eiiard.
t, t understood Cardlnale has been
offered Immunity If he will tell all he
1 nnuri im hk. sr.F.N in j tinrj.
jJDUJi. v
Will "e Visible Three Months, M
I'rlrst-Astro er,
t Lotus. Nov. !!. A gigantic, ininet,
outclasslii!
size and brilliancy nil
.u.. ..nribueslern
cording to 'Father Hrelinan, and piohably
II
will remain visioio ior imn mw -
w 1 bo at Its best In June. The comet,
which l know officially Cornet U,
was i flrat rewrld by Prof. Max WoU at,
HMlbrt. '
, a
GUARD IS STARTED
BACK FROM BORDER
Win Department Inaugurates
General Plan to Itclicvc
Militia.
PEItSHIXd TO WITH Mt AW
Will (let Orders Within
Week After Protocol Is
Signed, Army llelioves.
Washington, Nov. 1C. The first defi
nite move toward withdrawal of the
National Guard from the Mexican border
was announced to-night by the War De
partment. Five regiments will return
home at once and others are expected to
follow. Th- regiments ordered to re- j many years prominent hi South Amen
tum nie the Seventh New York, the cm trade, yesterday completed nego
Klrst South Carolina, the Third Indiana, ! nations for the purchase of the New
thm Third Wisconsin, and the Third
Minnesota. They comprise 5,296 In
fantry. Secretary linker In explaining the
order made this statement;
"It Is In continuation of the inillcy an
nounced some time ago by tho War De
partment to gradually withdraw Na
tional Guard regiments f rotfi the border
as conditions permit, ntul In accordance
with recommendations from Gen. Fusion. 1
that the designated regiments have been ,
i i... ..
The movement has been llnke.l with
" l" 'ho an. once
r i..t.. t i i--t A t..
...i. -
deny nor mUrm the report auU wouui not
1 lununeiu on 11.
Seunlor Mloin- I'leHseil.
r,
lalrnian
of the Senate Foreign IMatlons .Com
mlttee, said after a conference with. Sec.
retary ltaker that he whs pleased "the
hojs were now tunning home." He ls
also pleased at the news ho received
concerning the withdrawal of the Amer-
lean regulars from Mexico.
or ten days after the protocol arranging
for a border patrol Is signed at Atlantic
City, l'ershlnai command Is expected
to relieve approximately ,",,ovu National
Guardsmen on the border. It may be
that the National Guardsmen of the bor
der States Arizona, Texas and New
Mexico will remain Indefinitely
The altitude of Senor Cabrera toward
the projiosed .protocol Is rmnlpp snme
uneasiness here because of reports that
lie disagreed with the other Mexican
commlssloiieis. deports also reached
here from Atlantic City that the ques
tion of an American loan to Mexico was
Involved In the ngiiement.
tttl.OOU' .Men Iteiiinln.
The withdrawal of the lle teglmiils
ill pursuance of Secretin) llakci' older
of to-day leaves sixty-nine regiments
and six battalions nf Infantry, totalling
71.112, on the bonier. There are three
regiments, seven sipi. nitons and twenty,
four troops of cavalry, making in all
batteries, a total of lii.i.U'. and there
nrp three ,.,ltall..ns and twelve com-
' ' T" "' ',, . . ', ' i
1 ' ..V" . . V..:
of "K!"7r V- ""f1""1 '
nineteen ambulance companies, making
!l ,0.tal. of 14.??' i,lm tw-'nty-nlne field
i hospitals, totalling 1.X07.
The total force of National Guards
, men after the withdrawal of the live
! regiments thus will be 99,"02 men.
ASKS BETTER CAMP.
.. , . ,.
"in-
San Antonio. Tex.. Nov. 10. Gen,
I -minion nas asscu me ar Department
to authorize the expenditure of $12,000 war purposes, ns well as for the con-' The artillery struggle continued vlo
to, floor tents and make other Improve-' strui'tion of various essentials to ship-' ,r"t ,nf region of Abl.ilncourt.
ments In th" camp of the expeditionary
force in .Mexico.
Action on the reipict, otllclals believe,
will Indicate tne policy of the War lie-
pnrtment regarding troops In Mexico
If It is the Intention to keep them theto
Indefinitely the requested Improvements
...III t. nl.llm- -n.l
Will WW UUIIIUIIMII.
fnlirrrn Iteiiinln (Ibdurnle.
Atuantic Citv. N. .1., Nov.
1(,. All
efforts of the American leprcecntaMvcs
mi mi .... Anon ,iiii. iiiiiii i. .mi i... in -
nilsslon to persuade l.uls Cabrera, chair-
man of tho Mexican representation, to
abandon his opposition to the plan of
iiorucr vniiuni ui mi m seiieini nv
,,u ,nlleiiffll. s
fulled to-day. The other
Jjjpuihers of
lost hope to-ulght
will be continued,
and the conference
MISS RANKIN TABOOS CAMERA.
Coimrc onion-elect Won't Leave
Unmet I'enrs Movie .lien,
Mtssot't..v, Mon., Nov. 10. No more
pictures are to lie taken by motion
picture men and press photographers of
fluu li.ii nlipt In II'. fllWln I tin ttnf lent.oii.
In bp Pleetpd In the t'ldtr-d StlnleH Coll.
grcss, according to her decision to-day. i
. ....sl,i..(.i.. r,,f, t ,,llnw mvselfi
to be photographed and will not leavo
the house while there is a camera man
nr. tho premises." snld Miss Hanhln
The block in which she lives Is patrolled
by camera men,
Itepubllcan leadeis of the State, It Is
'said, win tied Miss llauklii that the pub.
Ilnllii uha iiuiu r.mnli'inir in! is lit ultiu titir
ns ,t fr(..,(i t huh at tins suggestion
hp ((.0,i(, ,, ,,,de pot to have nnv
: photographs taken for newspapers anil
I motion plcturci.
PLEA FOR A DARK FRANCE.
Government .U I'eople lo Itednce
l.lulillllK of Houses,
PAttis. Nov IB Minister of tho In
tdior Malvy has Instructed the pre
fects of eveiy ilepirtinent In France lo
appeal, In cooperation with tin. Mayors
ot the cnuiniuile.i, to the people to rn
. .... .n.K ii... II..1.H ...
I once as i ii r as no.iiii' ine iikiiiihk oi
be manfully accepted In viow nf the
need ot seconding tho efforts of our
soldiers In tne trenches. It Is tho duty
of the people In the rear to add to the
force of the armies. The whole of
France inuit flfht."
$15,000,000 DEAL TO I
BOOH SHIPBUILDING
Great Camden -Plant Bought
With Idea of Expanding
American Industry.
MAY BUILD WAR VESSELS
American International Cor
poration at Head of the
Gigantic Purchase.
The American International Corpora
tion, the Nntlonal City Bank's new for
eign trade concern, In conjunction with
the International Mercantile Marine
Company, the Patiflc. Mall Steamship
Company nnd W. It. Grace & Co., for
York Shipbuilding Company of Camden,
N. .1. Tho acquisition Involves more
than 15,000,000 nnd marks the further
ance of tho alms of American banking
ami shipping Interests to extend the
sphere of American commercial Interests
throughout the world.
The buyers of the shipbuilding com
pany plan to organize a new corpora
tion to take over the assets and prop-
erty In which the majority Interest will
be owned by the companies named. Tho ; I'ressolrc Is entirely In our possession
.., ,..,.. .in i.. iin,ii,i,.t.,i ihpland our gains of November-7 hae been
j. .I i. '...,...... ... ............. i
present stwkholders probably receiving I
'' " ' ""r """ 11 ' a"
tirnh.iiilft thfit iiart nf iht atrM'U of I hp
mi i... ... .,- .......
nrnmtm Mr IMrrhn.r.
Two of the principal reasons for the
nurchase are to meet ulans for exnanslon
'
f the American Mne, which Is controlled ,
by the International Mercantile Marine,
.inn in luriner me PAl"iiisiiin "i l"c i a-i . . ., .. . . , . ,
clllo Mall Steamshh. Ommanv on the""'for' Wl,r" r''l!lK', yesterday.
l'aclllc. A heavy Interest In " the llrst 1
named company was purchased during
the receivership by the Amerlcnti Inter
nattonil Corporation. The I'aclhV .Mall
Steamship Company win purchased by
the American International Corporation
and V. It. Grace Co. about a jear
a so. Just aliout the time It was proposed '
In abandon business and ell the fleet
becaiiM" the old couipaii) could not com-j
' liete with ,lnpanep shipowners under'
the Follette siamen's act. In making
he announcement, nf the shipbuilding !
mircniise me new owners sain : i
"The American International Coroora-)
Mon. the International Mercantile Marine
. oiiii'.iiij . ... ii, (t.ivu re i. u, tutu nie
I'acltlc Mall Steamship Company have
purchased the properties of the New
York Shipbuilding Company. The com
pany now has contractu which will till
the present capacity of the ards
thrntiKli 1!M7 lmproements ami c-
nmtpri.ii.. .1... v .h.
"In order to assist In meeting the ic
iliilrcinents of Die Government's con
structlon programme a certain amount
of Gneririeiit work If offered piobably
wlll be taken by the new company, al
though demand fur the renewal of the
fleets of the companies purchasing the
at clx. together with private business
now on nanil anil In contemplation, will,
It Is estimated, use the entire capacity of ' A"'r,' '"! tl,,liHiis m launch a conn
the yards and proposed cxton-lons" for rr " also Hip .einians say
''' i't fle )ears.
To I'orni Coriinrntlnii
I "It Is proposed til Ol'L'.llltlP :l noil'
coiiioratlon which will take owr the
assets nnd jiroperty of the New York
Shipbuilding Company. The majority
Interest will be owned by the American
International Corporation, the Interna
tional Mercantile Marine Company. W.
It. Grace & Co and the l'aclllc Mall
me.imsiup l ompnny. It Is possible
; portion of the stock will be i.nVre.l fr
I public subscription at a later date."
The plant of the New Vnrl sii,i,.i.n.i'
' Ing Company Is equipped for building
i sieei esseis for both mercantile nnd'
building, suih ns limine engines and
noiiers. it has flvo shlpways. and lis
, present capacity Is ino.nnn tuns per
annum. 1 lie plant appealed to the buy.1
eis because of its location, equipment1
1 and general adaptability to large scale!
' production. Recently a 7.000 ton dead
11',, ,,1.1 f.-nlnltl... t...llt ... .1.1.. .
......i i,i,ti-i .,,n I.IIIU ,l UIIS IM.IUl
and a trial run made In the lemarkable
u"! "f fourteen w-eeks.
i I'loji.iioi i- iiiiereMen Ml llle pur.
, ehnse, which have strotu; llnnnclnl bark.
I MBi P l(1 ,,,,, t. American shlpbiill.l.
1 ing inuuMiy on a iar with the Industry
abroad before the war, and the olllcl'ils
! Ii.ols to the Administration to plan laws,
which will encourage the Industry As-
j sumnccs nie Mini in nave been obtained
In regard to laws for protecting the lu-
dusliy
Old OCIeer, llrtnlnrit.
The New Yolk Shipbuilding Coinpiny'
was Incorporated In New Jersey in IM'li.
, i - . .in 1,1 ... , ii.h -! n -iiiu.i.iiiir. in 4.i,.iiii... .
1 000 and lis bonded dfbt to $2,000,(100.
j The controlling Interests in the company!
for a number of years have been lli'nrv'
I". l.'rlet:. A t' .Melton n Pliiul, !
banker, and I loin y vv alteis of New Yorl,
The present oMIccim of the lompahv,
which me aln
nly at work on plniiH for
! CXPil llslotl, W
be letalned by tho pur-
' iiasers,
The plans for the Immediate extension
, of Ihe plant Include the building of two
.additional shlpways. which will give the
company. It Is estimated, an additional
I capacity of nt least :,0 per rent. Kven
j this extra output, hnvvevei. will not give
, the company f.n'U lles with which to till
the business now under negotlntlon.
1 In the last ten yeais the New Yorl:
1 Shipbuilding Company has turned out
I Mich vessels as the nrninml cruiser
"""" '." ""'oi- iiiiras(,vi'w
Hampshire, Michigan, Arkansas nnd
1 Oklahoma, eight destioyets and a mini
' ber of battleship, for foreign Govern
tnenls,
JEWS FREE IN "NEW" POLAND.
Millcl HcoomiUcs Judaism a lies
HkIoii In Public l.nvr,
LoNboN. Nov. H',. A lleuter despatch
from Amsleiil.iin sajsj
"A Warsaw telegram announces that
ah edict has been published recognizing
Judaism a a icliglou In public law."
When Germany and Austrln-Hiingary
ptoiialtncil a week ago those portions
of Itussian Poland occupied by their
armies as an Independent kingdom, Itus.
sla denounced the plan as a scheme to
recruit Poles to fight for the Teutons,
Jews here believe the new decree hua
a similar motive. Judaism Is not recog.
nltcd by the Hustlan Government,
FRENCH RECOVER
ALLOFPRESSOIRE
Great German Offensive, De
signed to Pierce Sector,
, Ends in Defeat.
PICKED MEN VANQUISHED
Joffre's Soldiers Also Regain
(round They Lost North
ofsKailliscl.
London, Nov. l-S.-i-After twenty-four
hours of lighting ns tremendous ns any
hitherto seen In the Homme battle, the
Krencli have succeeded In taking back
from the Germans practically all tho
giound lost In the great German attack
yesterday.
North of the Somme the French made
to-day a sudden nnd dashing counter
attack that swept the Germans out of
a group of houses northeast of the vil
lage of SalltlHcl.
South of the Somme during the night
there raged a terrific battle In the out
skirts of Pressolre. The Krench were
attaikbie to drive out tne Qermans. who
hnil m.iimerri in rllrc in tiarl nf Ihe
eastern outskirts. j
i , i, .i ... ,,,, ,,, i
At the end of a ferocious fight under
a bombardment of extreme violence
"i respects maintained, says the
French statement to-day.
(irriimn Work. I liilmir
I Thus In the fighting of a night and a
day tho French havo undoin- all that 1
the Germans welt- able to do bv L-reat
t.,mmt,r aUll,.kH vsvfvl , ri.t..)turi.
........i...- t..
iiriiijtvi- mi inu IIUIIIH'III niKI- "I f-i.
i.iorr,. Vaast wood Tlu-xe trencln-s h-ul
been In French hands only a few daya
V" stupendous effort the Germans
made yesterday, which has been almost
entirely set at nought by the French. Is I
described In despatches from the front.
ii n.m imiiiiiiik less man an 'iiori in
force to bri-.il; through th.FieiicU lines.
not simply to nvapture last ground.
Slx- thousand men were used In
twele attacks uhiii French positions
hi the blood snaked Ablallicourt-I'res-solre
sector. The German tromis were
all of selected regiments, picked troop
8anHt ;ome f ,hpm ouardsmci id
.i remainder llunnvnplu...
r-m ..ni..i -
first attack was made." The - rnielff,l"''oIu,l,m Introduced yesterday ex-
hurlid It back. After t'ie. tlist attack
live more attacks were unified by the
German generals, uitutlly an attack
eery half hour until 10.15 oVIim k.
In ttie afteriiiiiiu the Germans returned
llcfore evening airived slv more .marks
nan neeti mane I liee afternoon at-
incKs wen- nude a division and
half, but by d'ferent men from the -IIU-
ion am! " half that had attached In the
morning
, As a result the Germans got some of
the outlying himsex of l'iesoiro mul lost
(10 per cent, of the troops engaged. They
, were dtlveti out of the Iioums to-day
i nil the llrltlsh front the German
i shelled trenches nortti and south of the
"M'"'"" limn- inii.nii titiattxrt nil
, the Ancri front.
KIiik (Je'irsp tclesraphed rr.ncratul.i-
ltrltlsh comniamler In France, upon the
"Kieit success" of the last few days, re
flecting credit on nil ranks.
French "tnleioeni.
The French nfllclal statement Issued
to-nlglit says:
On the Somme front some enemv dp.
tachmenls which had succeeded In
I gaining a foothold In a group of houses
northeast of the village of Sallllsel
wrw driven out by a spirited counter
auaci;.
I.verywhere else the day was calm,
Un
November IS one of our air
pilots brought down an enemy
ma-
chine nenr Chaulnes.
The French announcement I'sued to-
day follows:
North nf the Somme the rnemi- ,n.i
. .
not renew hit attempts against our
front.
South of the Somme nr made an
attack during the night against the
eastern portion of Pressolre, which
had I II it'Viipleil by the eneniv. Here
tho French troops resisted with ad.
mlr.ible eneigv, and thanks to this
tenacity, loitpled with the determina
tion of our troops, vvu drove the Ger
mans from the village.
At the end of a ferocious MKht under
a bombardment of extreme violence
Pressolre Is now entirely In our posies
slon, and our gains of November 7
have been In all respects maintained.
According to recent Information the
enemy, who brought forwaid to take
part In this attack forces hclnngtui; to
three different divisions, suffered very
heavy losses as a result of the serious
check we put upon him
io tno west or itheiuis a surprise
att.icli on the part of the Ptiemy upon
" w 111 trencnes, loiiowing a pre-
IMii.iuuy iiiiiueiy nre, lesuileil In fall,
ute under our cut tain of tire.
German Ilullelln.
The fiermnu statement says'
Army Group of Crown Prince Itup
precht Separate ltrltlsh attacks on
the load of Mallly-Serre, further to
the east mul to hn southeast of Heau.
iiioiiI, failed In a hand Kienade comlml.
Slionger attacks against Gr.indcourt
broke down under our lire.
In hard house to house lighting we
wrested from the French the eastern
part of Sallllsel.
lit the evening the Hanoverian
Fusilier Iteglnieut No. 7."i spumed the
tenaciously defended French trenches
on the north edge of St Pierre Vaast
wood. High! olllcers and 321 men and
five machine guns wen biought In.
In the fighting yesterday In the sec.
tor of Ablalncoiirt-PresMilte the line
was unchanged.
Thlrly-nlne Itclglan. were victims of
a host ll air attack on iisteml, As a
reprisal against the bombing of peace
ful Lorraine villages Nancy has been
hlii lied and bombed in the coin mi of
Ihe last few days.
Ilrltlsli In miner in cut.
The ltrltlsh olllclal statement from the
front In Fraino Issued to-ulght reads;
This uftcrnoon the enemy bombaid
ed our new front north of the Ancre,
Continued on Second rage.
DEUTSCHLAND SLIPS AWAY
.ON RETURN TRIP TO BREMEN
Submarine Departs at 1 :30 A. M. From New London
With Two Tugs Carries $2,000,000 Cargo
and Mail Saluted on Way Out.
New London, Conn., Nov. 17 (Friday,
2 A. M.), The Dcutschland slipped out
of her berlh In the harbor at 1:30 o'clock
this morning to begin her perilous voy
age back to Itremcn.
Sixteen days ago she ramo In under
cover of darkness, without pilot or
tender. This morning she left the harbor
accompanied by two tugs of tho T. A.
Scott Wrecking Company, Capt, V.
Illusch nnd other ofllcluls of the Eastern
Forwarding Company, American agents
for the undersells line were on one of
the tugs, A launch rilled with news
paper men followed the three vessels
down the Thames lllver to the mouth of
the harbor.
Ily 1a break It Is believed the sub
mersible will be well out toward the
open seas, playing the game of hide and
seek with ltrltlsh cruisers In which she
now Is adept through the practice gained
In three Atlantic crossings.
Aboard the Deutschtand Is fierhaps the
most valuable cargo ever packed In such
small space. It consists of gold bars,
nickel, rubber and other of Germany's
necessities which can be transported In
compact form.
Effort at Seorecj
There were no formal good-bys. livery
fiiori, in laci, was mane to Keep the
hour of ,,,p.lr,ure HM.rpl. ut frol'n lm
tin
many activities of tho dal- observer
were certain the dash was close at hand.
T,,c l steel net that guarded the
rillriinrn In rli, fuirkpt U'hi.ri, nil. Iiv
. iaUC( olrt ,lf t,p w(iy a, mijui
A dozen sailors from the Wlllchad Joined
tho guards, and alt persons wero
I warned to keep awsy from the wharf,
i , ..i
. ii.imi .is uui.ru in i iivw B'tter illllll
COMMONS ADOPTS
FOOD CONTROL PLAN
( (I VC I'll 1 1 1 (' II t Will 1X Pl'ICCS
Oil hllflllMPS 1,01'(1 Dl'VOIl
port May He Dictator.
"'ii i.ablf Itrtimleh In Tne Scv from Ihe
London Timtl.
London, Nov. 16. The House, of Com
mons adopted without division to-day
pressing the House'" opinion that the
Government should adopt measures to
cotieri tho food supply nnd diminish
the tisk of shortage and high prices,
I'nder the heading "No Food Tickets
Vet." the 7'bnrs says editorial, y
"U'e Imp excelteup authority for stat
"1K iUul "" 'luestlon of granting food
tickets Is not regarded as likely to arise
Immediately. Conditions, of courhe, may
, change at any time, but tho outlook s
not now such as to render the adoption
of the German system III any degree
probable."
In connection with the Government's
dei'lsion to appoint a food dictator nnd
I Institute a fonn of war bread, taking
other drastic measures to control fond
staples. Lord Pevonport, who has
covered the country with a network of
retail stores unuer tne line 01 ine iiuer.
natloinl TVa Consjiany, Is prominently
mentioned as a likely candidate for the
post of food dlctatoi .
The ottlclal inonthly review- (.ays of
high prices; "Taking the country as
a whole the Increase In Ihe retail cost
of food nt the beginning of the war
until November 1 Is 7S per cent., a fig
ure which Is based upon the relative
Importance of tho various articles of
wotklng class expenditure. As relates
to food only It may lie reduced to 72
per cent.
If tin. Increase on the duties upon
... . ..,,.1 1... ,l.l, I ., Inrx nro.
I pnrlioii of the Increase will be found due
. in the r se in Ihe mice of notatoes. t lit)
. .. . . . .
average retail nr co on .oveinner i no-
Ing '.'i pence per seven 'pounds, com.
pared to 4ij pence a year ago and 3!1i
Pence on the corresponding date of 1914.
"The price of milk has Increased 7 per
rem. uuriliK iiiunin, inn in ri .iki-
price Is r.'4 pence n quart. The pile
of flour has advanced per cent., of
bread per cent.
"llggs are dearer than they were a
month earlier by 19 per cent, and fish
til 11 i.ivf r..ti ltMtt.if nil. I I, h tv
,u.. ; . .
detail food prlies on November
10H:, compared with similar prices In
191.'. showed an average Increase of 27
per lent. Potatoes aio more than double,
gtanulated sugar Is dearer by 39 per
lent. During the year increases of 20
In 2.1 per cent, wero recorded In Hour,
biead, milk, butter, cheese, fish, bacon,
meat, margarine.
"The percentage of Inci eases on hutch-
pr's meat eomnarpil with tliin.i. of .Itnv.
1913, show from M per rent, on ltrltlsh
legs of mutton to 11.', per cent, on fiozen
breasts of mutton.
Wl oilier aiucies ine
letall lUlies ale mote I lilt IV ilouiile.
"Mtice Jiity. ran, sugiu, egg, nsii,
potatoes and Hour are 7-1 per cent, above ;
the level It miy be estimated that he
average increase in tne cost ot living
for the working classes since July. "O
taking food, lent. doll. Ing, fuel light
:i tul mb-eel .'menus p i. nendlt ill p.s. ts R.i imr 1
cent., dlnregardliig increased taxation."
'. ,, ,.
70.17v' ARMY" PLANS.
lii-rniiin Gov eminent to
Workrrs From Volunteer
Select
'nree,
llKiu.lN, via London, Nov. 1G. The
JliiNifi'MMfi dlcusscd to-day the Govern
ment bill for oigaiiizlng a so-called
"home arnii " It Is contemplated In tho
llrst lia-ttmce to ask for volunteers for
the home army and not to resort to com
pulsory steps at piesent, although lns
may lie done later In the c.im of .persons
who ale unable to show that they nre
engaged In some useful occupation,
In order to obtain a Inmtwoi thy basis
for Hie home army the Government has
ordcied a census of the entire homo pop
ulation of Decemlier 1. with occupations.
I 'mm the lists the oigaiil.ei of the new
InduMilal in my will be able to select
persons available us workers.
India O. Id's Wheat Rxports.
London, Nov, 16, The ' Government
of India has sanctioned the exportation
to i.'ngland, France and Italy In Novem
ber, December and January of 400,000
tons ot wheat.
who ventured close to the arehouc,
and a hose was turned on another.
Tho Kastcrn Forwarding Company
early In the night put up u high cap us
screen on the roof of Its oftlce, thus shut-
ting off the view of the submarine from
a house on the hill. whK ti nas neeu
charging 25 cents a look for the last
few days.
A tank car carrying fuel oil was
rushed hero from rainier. Mass., by a
special locomotive. The I'nlted States
cruiser Columbia anrhored off Kastern
I'olnt late to-day, and swept the waters
of tho lower harbor to-night with Its
searchlights.
It Is believed the IHutschland will
head straight for the high seas. She
should pass Hlock Island within Ihe next
few hours, and once past the lino drawn
north from tho great south light on the
cliffs of that outlying bit of land she Is
lieyond the technical three mile limit
Hecnuse of tho easier egress to the mean,
Capt. l'aul Koenlg probably will not re
peat the tactics of his llrst caslbound
voyage, when ho lurked In American
waters Inside the capes for a day or
more before putting out to sea.
A Illch ( urgo.
While tho manifest of the Iciilsli-1
lam nnfmt ViflU tint VPt llPSII tll!lllP llllb-
lie. It Is cstmnted that Its approximate;
alue Is over $2,000,000. The cargo con-,
slsls largely of crude rubber, nickel, zinc
and sliver bars. She also carries eeral
tacks of mall from the German llmlsissy
at Washington. Some of the mall was
Bald to be for the Getm.ui llniperor.
When the lieutschland p-isscd Columbia
at 1 :43 o'clock several passing steameis
anil the Columbia turned their search-
lights on tho boat,, and blew their
whistles. (
-
SAYS RUMANIA IS
VITAL TO ENTENTE
, . .
( I'llppl. 1'01'lliei' I'OI'eiiril MilllS
tec of France. I'l'trcs llisr
Drive From Salonicn.
I'.n.s Nov. 1 -.lean .'ruppl. for-,
merly Xllnlster of Foreign Affairs, speak.
log at a meeting to-day pre-lded over by
l'rof. l'alnleve. Minister of Public In-
structlon, outlined the Importance of the
intervention of llumanta on the side of
the Allies In the war.
As a result of llumanla'e participation
the allied armies ate now at iirxiv.i,
from which point, he said, they would
be able to advaiRv toward Hudiipest. It
Is only sixty miles from Knlafat to Ntsh,
throush which passes the railway con-
nectilK the Central Powers with tr.e
east.
Prof. Crupple pointed out also that It Is
only 1X0 miles from the advanced posi
tions on the Salonlca front to the lun
ula', nnd that the ltui-o-IttiiuaiU.tu
arm.rs have a natural path through the
Dobrudji toward Sulla nod Constanti
nople. Porr.a Watra, in Moldivia. when
the Kutente Allies have been fighting sue
cessfully. overlooks the plain of Hun
gary. These considerations, he urged, ate stif
tlclctit to show the Importance of the
Itumaiilau front In the plans of the en
tente, Prof. ruppl continued:
Hut If In default of action vlgorou.
IZZ , r' i 1 .'" V',,,rl . ""'V111'; Jj
1". , ,.fp"l'U''1' lf. "'U, ,hrU'' 0t
tentral Powers coming from the north
or west succeeds; If Von F.ilhenhayn
and Von .Mackeiisen Join their armies in,
the illtcetlou of the Dobrudji, then we
, Will see, instead or a definite encircling
of llln l-enlp-l Pnerj lh ,l..nrU ,h,.
, 7" .".V"' " ,H ' "
Orient onetie,! widely m lb., enemy im.l
me ieu nana oi in llussiaiis, pre V II 1111 y
! 0.l1V''r,,i'! ','y ,"' ""mania.
i no. .m m-.i.
.'TI,.., la it... p. .,1. I I. I....1 I
"" " ....... i v i.-.p. ,
I" 'he face. The Germans know that,
"d they piove It by the Immensity of
' their effoii."
. I 'I of. Cnippl spoke of the splendid i
, ni-i m oi inioiJiii.i, ion p.iiii 11 .in inn
sulllcienl for the Allies that Itussla each
day was Incrc.iMng her forces In thu
DobrmlJ.i ami the Carpathians The ac
i tlons 'the. Allies on the Salonlca ftont.
) he declared, must o.ch diy be more
....lA.l ..t mm.. i. .
i . 'v..'1 1 . .vv". ,,M!
CALL ON ENGLAND TO PRAY.
Unite Posters I'm" Ihe .Vlltlon in
Ask lllv Ine Help.
penal Cable Deniatch lu Tub Si
I.onpon, Nov. HI. Londoner were
surprised this morning to observe wallj
"v,,r the city covered with huge
olll-
i clal posters exhorting Kngllslimeu to pray
daily for their enimtiv for II. nl
i alll hl,(ll.,
v.imirfit n.mv'. ...,.r,h i
pr,nen.ly : "Cnld a tellginus levival
,u,.s ,,,.. ,, llIK tt, ,,
Wlll. iMntlmie" 'I ne are followed by
tlen. Sir William It. ston's message
..A ,., ,, .h-ietnunatlim on the part of
.. . . ... . . 1 . .
i tne nanoii in icei nivine neip won M
tiudnubledly furnish valuable help to our
sildlers and s.ntois."
The po-ter cuds with the following
wolds, printed in large type - "Will you
Join those who every day at noon, and
at family praveia at home, pray for our
mutiny, our sailors and soldiers'.'"
HENRY SMITH MAY GET JOB.
Former llrml nf Park llnard -Mentioned
fur I'nslmastrrsblp,
It was reported lat night that Presi
dent Wilson may appoint Hcmy Smith,
who was President of the Path lioaid
mulct MliNor -M' liellan, In be postman.
ter of New x oi k Mi Smith, whin
asked If he had heard any thing lion,
Washington on tho subject, said he had
i not, but ndiuttti .1 that ha had been
urged for the place.
Mt Smith Is a lawyer nt 132 Nassau
street. Ho was born In Albany In isn;:t,
and came to this city In 1SS9. Ho Is
known ai an Independent Democrat, Ho
was mentioned In 1909 as a posslbbi
Democrat lo candidate for Mayor.
PINEIIVRHT 1IOTELH AND OOI.F LINKS
now open, laq. Seaboard Air Lint, lilt U'arar,
Aiv.
ALLIES SMASH
ENEMY'S LINES
IK MACEDONIA
i CJreat Drive Urines Sarrail'a
Troops "Within Four Miles
of Monastir.
POWERFUL Dl'iFJOXCKS
ARE CRUMPLED UP
Many Villages Are .Taken
and Uerinano-Iiiilrur
Forces Retreat.
SKRHIAXS SHARK
JXTlfK VICTOR! KS
JJj.jf s 'Pake Stl'OlUrlV Fol
tifieil Point in Brilliant
Attack.
1 N"V. 1'.. Serbian, Kioncli and
Hussian troops mo onlv four miles
f,,, ,, , ,' - .
fr,n" Monastir. IlrivlliK forward
without rest throiuh mud mid slush
tonictltncs up to their iiiiiiplls, (leu.
Sarrall's troops hac crtiinplcd tho
liitlgar-Gennan lino it many pluccs
and are piehslng tho Oerm.-ns and
llulgars on tho plains of Monastir.
Strong positions, fot tltlcil for months
under direction of Gorman engineers,
have lalleti nr havo been given up as
i result uf the fill Ions attacks of tho
last few days.
Desperatj' cffoits by the llulsar.s to
stop the advance by counter attacks
failed. Ijrgc numbers of prisoners
,and inut-li booty hao been taken, but
h(
, , ,
j ei,7'- tll"t '' "re-
K""1''"-
I'o.trrfol Lines Abiiiiiliined.
Kenall -in, tho strong fortification
and troiii Ii lines about It, cons.dercd tho
most Itdiicateli fnrtiilid po dion In
western Mm edoiil.i. have been abandoned
by the Germans and llulkais.
Terrific Hie of the 1'remti 7.'ik and
the threat to their light flank forced
the Teutons to slip away from Kenall
last night. They did not stop tho re
treat until they hud gone six miles
towanl Monastir, and Mood on the
northern bank of the lllver Vlro, a
tilbutary of the Cerna.
French and Itussian troops, pushing
upon the heels of the enemy, occupied
the villages of Jnbyanl, I'orodln and
Veltishlna near the Win. Serbian troops
In the same opeiatioii drove the llulgars
from the villages of link! I, Gorn-Jcgrl,
Sledno.Jegrl and Don-Jeer!.
Further east. In the Cerna bend,
Seiblnn troops who had pushed far north
amid tho Chtiko Mountains drove the
llulgarl.ins from tho linpottant Tepavtsl
position and broke into iinir strongly
fort fled lines from lven to Yarashok.
Tin ee vlllngts and the Yarashok mon.
I ,1... 1. 1 .,,, Jt . , , i.. .,!
li-lits with their Hated Hulgar enemies.
'Tepavtsl was defended by Germans of
j ,llkan,ul rcKlmcnt. who lost
j j '
'
nrltlsh Also Drive Ahead.
... ,, ,,. , . . .,
At tllO Same time tllo Hr t sll lit tll
"l-ier exiremiiv oi me ion
Mii.-cdonlan
f n , ,.! .. sudden d sh f award nnd
i , ,. . , . , .... .u-
I ' ! " " "ft ' Mmheait
. ,,
ll HI' .11 illllll. , nv i 1 i.o 1. won. I. ii ami.
inent to-night says tlm village was cap
tured after "a brilliant engagement.
' Thu I'ltilgarlans there am withdrawing on
the left bank of the brook of .Nihor.
This concerted action by the two wings
, , ,- Is uieeteil hem with
i "f..SJ,Vl ,0 t r."V to mm , h Hulg 11 "
Jn ; 'J ' . 1 . i -,,r Li,
H""" "f ' !':h.'lf,":
f'Tcemetits t! . . ve x ce I hitel .
i ! V"1 fi " '
Lt'lleVt'll,
-j-i..- dns-, connect...n between tins
from In Macedonia and tho ltum.inlau
ftont in Dnbrudja, If not on the. Transyl
vaiuan side, Ii pointed out. Serious rc-vci--es
un h as tho Teutons are now aut
lei.ng in Macedonia cannot but draw
men from the ninilcs striking at Itu
mania, It Is declarer!
To-day's Gel man olllcial statement ad
nilts a rctliemctit in tho Cerna region,
and for the Hist ttmo the llulgars uUo
cotifis that all Is not well then-. Tho
Germans say btielly : "Prcpuvd new
positions tif the lllver Co no. scitor wero
occupied "
Tho Hulgar statement admits that tho
llulgars have lallm bail; on a lino four
.,..,.i ..n..,., .i,i,.t, i m
vcrv dnso to Monastir.' "In tho Cerna
i.end heavy lighting look place and thu
Hulgai-lan nnd German Hoops vvithdtew
positions north of Tepavtsl and Che
gel," it conclude.
h " "
Vllackcd During lluliislorin.
Despatches fiom Gen. .s.u rail's Lead
quartets at Saloul a oinphas .e tho des
perate cbaia ter or the ftgntttig Tho
attack was begun In a ra'n-torni, says
rirtcr's cm tespondent, ur.it nt bomo
places tho Hulgar trenches vvoio filled
with water and slush from thu recent
snows. In this welter the Serbian aim
Fiench enmo to grips with the llulgars
and Germans.
Cnolllclal ncoutits of tho prisoners
taken In tho eatly singes ot the uttark
siy that fiOO soldleis, two nllb era and
tho c.uletH had been counted, The.
1 French War utllee, through vvh-ch com i
I the lull icpnits of tho .Macvduiitaii cam-
pi go, It-sued lu-nlght tho lollowiliK slate-
inent '
i on tho Struma front ltrltlsh forces
havo captured, after a brilliant en.
g.ig.'UUiiti the vlllagn of Karakuska,
on tho eastern sldo of Lake T.ihlnos.
The HulgariaiiH im withdi-iwing on
tho left bank of tho brook ot Nllior.
On the Cerna front, In spite of rain
and snow, our offensive has continued
victoriously In tho bend of thu ilvcr.
Hero the lighting was of extreme, se.
verity. The violent counter attacks
ot the Germano.Hulgarlan troops, ile.
Uvired during the night ot Xovctultr
. I'Diillitutd on fourth Pmg,
' fc-i..
