we -6 -M
ON& "_we & _ _ _ _ _ _
RAA
NO. 3682. WIATIU-FAin; WARNER WASBI~iGTOqi, D. (I@ FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1916.OEC&
LABOR PREPARES
FOR BIG BATTLE
AGAINST CAPITAL
Employers Also Lay Plans to
Wage Finish Fight on
Eight-Hour Law.
WILSON MAY I 'RERE
President Declared to Contemplate
Calling Conference to
Avert Clash.
Captl and labor were bnought
face to face with what posdily may
be the greatest struggle in history of
the nation by developments on both
siden yesterday in the contest over the
Aams- eight-boar law.
Indications were last night that the
threatened strike of railway em
plAye may he only one feature of
the battle. The American Federation
of Labor is making plans to espouse
the cause of the railway trainmen and
to make the eight-hour law universal
in its application to all forms of la
bor. The National Founders' Associs
tion. representing 15,000 employers
of labor offered its support to the
railroads in their fight in the courts
on the Adamson measure.
Wilse May Call Ceaferene.
President Wilson, it was declared In
high official circles. was seriously con
templating calling another conference of
railroad heads and employes with a view
to averting the strike threatened by the
rafroad men.
It is known that the President is deter
mined to go to any lengths within the
Wcund of authority to cffect a settlement
"f the controversy and avoid a strike of
i.e workmen. A further conference. it is
i. ileved. would tend to bring the oppos
Ir : factions nearer to peaceable settle
n.-nt and afford a basis for final agree
mient.
: f it should be decided to call the con
ference. it would be held before the con
p emng of Congress for the short session.
This {pllows closely upon the semi-official
arneucfeenent rrade Wodnesday that the
I 'ministration 's ylanning to ask Con
* iss to make certar changes in the
samson eignt-hour law, which is now
ti. subject of attack in the courts by
*riore than a doean of the railway Bys
S;ns. It is understood that one remin
advanced for another conference - that
it would enable the officials to gather
aditional Information on the subject,
which would be useful in drafting the
proposed changes in the law.
All Comissiones Mere.
The presence in Washington of Gen.
cosge W. Goethals and George Rublee.
who. , ith Commissioner Clark of the In
t1r1 state Commerce Commission. comprise
t: cnctmmissaon appointed by the Presi
dn ., 1.t.dy the workings of the Adam
son act, has done much to strengthen
the belief that important steps are about
to be taken by the Qlnistration to bring
1:1., factions in the eight-hour controversy
into agreement. Gen. Goethals and Com
loier Ruhle, were in conference yes
terCay with a number of officials in de
l itments closely allied to the work of
me commi35st
Ualtimore, Md., Nov. 14.-President Sam
ueI ;nipets. of the American Federation
co I abor. annoin(el today, after receic
I i n t-om the presidents of the
9 iailroad brotherhoods. that the rep
11r iv- .f the railway employes will
i:nitnime londay or Tuesday and
i: udress the American Federation
*~11 1(1
.i:uiRai!ticr. Mr. Gbompers gave in
1rvieu ers t( understand that labor Is
o .'terimmtit.I that the eight-hour law for
trainmen as passed by Congress shalt
stand.
In New York the "National Industrial
' aference Board,". cmprising employers
f approximately *.;000O0 laborers, has
I been launched.
To heek Uaiversal Law.
The formation of the industrial confere
(nke-coming as it did on the heels of
he railrcads* action in starting contests
in many States against the Adamson bill
-- ad the effect today of making labor
apprehensive. It was the chief subject
of discussion among the labor leaders,
nnld it had th, effect of consolkdating
sbor.' determination to fight for a uni
versal right-hour day.
This was seen clearly in a resolution
ofTered from the floor by Delegate An
drew Hill. of Little Rock, Ark., asking
the federation to take steps to secure a
universal eight-hour day as a "standard
work day for all mechanical. industrial
and mercantile establishments through
cut the entire United States by legislative
enactment."
To repeated questions on various phases
of the situation resulting from the recent
unsatisfactory conference of the brother
hood heads and the railroad managers
in New York. Mr. Gompers would only
repeat his statmenent-that the law is
going into effect January 1.
From this and from the gral import
ance which is appaerently attaibme. by
- Mr. Gompers and other federation Ied
er, and delegates to the proposed visit
to the conv'ention of the brotherhoo'd
lenders, it appears that the trainmen's
representatives will. in Baltimore next
* week. issue their deS to the railroads.
New York, Nov. 16.-ailroad off
cials today proceeded with their plans
to attack the Adaseson eight-hour law
in the Federal courts.
H. Snowden Marshall. Unifed States
attorney for this district, suggested
that the action of the roads in bring
ing a multitude of suits all over the
country is unnecessary. He suggested
that the railroad companies might by
agreement with Attorney General!
Gregory brIng a single actien. The
case then could be carried only to the
United itatee Supreme Court for a1
Padjudication.
-whl n .va.W...NAn ..
matsm en the pert of stogie makers
that theie demands for an increase in
wages be mest before tomight hes resulted
in n euspension of that i=nutr in Wheal
log. Mo than L.W mee and toys and
enrly t girls are Idle.
Developments of
Fight of (
These salient facts in connec
tween capital and labor over the
of yesterday's developments:
President Wilson is said to be
labor leaders together for another
strikes.
Representatives of railway ei
dressing American Federation of
Intimations from Baltimore c
to crystallize labor sentiment for
National Founders' Association
bor, offers support to railroads in f
BOOST U. S. SHIPS
$15,000,000 Merger First
Step in Constructive Plan.
(oy the Iaternateual News serviee.)
New York, Nov. 16.-The first definite
step to place the American flag over a
merchant marine of the first rank on all
the seas of the world was taken today.
This step was the purchasing of the New
York Shipbuilding Company, of Camden,
N. J., by the International Mercantile
Marine Company, the International Cor
poration, the Pacific Mail Steamshig
Company and W. R. Grace & Company,
The deal involved about $15000,000.
Announcing the conclusion of the nego
tiations. 0. J. Baldwin, vice president of
the American International Corporation,
said:
"We have been considering action of
this kind for some time. Our conclusior
is that the time is now the most favor
able since the advent of the steam and
steel vessel to restore the American mer
chant marine to its prestige of the earl)
nineteenth century. We believe the con
struction of vessels to be begun at once
will mark a new ma in the maritime
history of this country. t
Mr. Baldwin's words bear great weight.
since he is the spokesman for the com
panies which control almost. the entire
vessel tonnage Pr' to u the seas today.
The official - ,un = t says Im
provements ap. enwargements are to be
made at once. A new ship is now under
construction at Camden. The company
already has contracts that will carry it
through the year 1917, but it will accept
orders from the government in connection
with the preparedness program If offered.
EMPLOYERS OffER AID
IN RAlROAD BATLE
Founders' Association iUl Help Fight
Adamson Law.
New York. Nov. 16.-Support of the rail
roads of the country in their fight in
the courts against the Adamson eight
hour-day law was offered today by the
National Founders' Association at the
closing session of its convention at the
Hotel Astor.
At Wednesday's session of the assocIa
tion the formation of a national indus
trial conference board, representing 15,
000 employers. to oppose activities of
labor unions which they regard as in
imical, was announced.
Most of the twenty-four members of
this board discussed plans all day to
day.
The scope of the board will be very
wide. It will watch all legislation, and
the activities of such labor organizations
as the American Federation of Labor.
It will combat anything that seems un
reasonable or unjustifiable In law and
equity. It might, for instance. it was
said, contest the provisions of the Clay
ton anti-trust law, exempting labor
unions from treatment like corporations.
At the closing session of the founders'
association these officers were re-elected
for a year: President. William H. Barr.
Buffalo; vice president. H. J. Boggis,
Cleveland. Ohio; secretary, J. M. Taylor,
Chicago; treasurer, Chicago Savings
Bank and Trust Company.
NEUTRALITY BREACH
CHARGED TO BRITISH
Use of Telephone and Telegraph Lines
Declared Illegal.
New Tork, Nov. 1.-The State Depart
ment is investigating a complaint that
British ofilcials in this country are violat
ing the neutrality of the United Stated
by their use of the telegraph lines be
tween this country and Canada, it was
learned here today.
Whenever agents of the British gov
ernment secure Information in this coun
try of the presence of U-boats off the
American coast or of other activity on
the part of Britain's enemies they im
mediately telegraph or telephone to Ot
tawa or Montreal. From these two cities
the information is relayed to the British
high-powered wireless station at Glace
Bay and frean there sent broadcast to all
Eritish vessels.
In this way the British have been able
to notify their cruisers and merchantmen
that a U-boat has been reported near
Norfolk, Boston, In the Gulf. or anywhere
along the coast. In the smne mnanner
the British cruisers wateblng for the de
parture of the Deutsehina will be ap
Prised by wireless n=tmantely the sub
mersible mnerchantman leaves.
AUTIOR 07 "QU0 VADN" DE8,
New York, Nov. 16--fenry Uenhiewins,
Polle novest beet baenn in the United
States as the anther of "Quo Vadi", is
dead at Vevay, SwitaarlIan acessedsg to
a neae received today by the Polish
victims' relIef comimittee here. Uie visited
the United States last in 1W. His home
was in Warsaw.
Chienee, Nov. K-Inveain of Chi
cads's cold storae waeeeees was be
gun by agents af tlis Pedapal Department
of Justice today in esmeetiam witha the
isquiry into the high es et fl which
wilt be naade hy the stead siir which
wil ......e ne.a uM~
Day in Big
:apital and Labor
ties with the coming struggle be
Adamson eight-hour law stood out
:onsidering calling railroad heads and
conference with a view to averting
aployes announce intention of ad
Labor convention in Baltimore.
nvention that federation may seek
universal eight-hour day.
representing is5oo employers of Ia
ght against Adamson law.
BRAKE ON PARLEY
U. S. and Mexican Envoys
Again Get in Deadlock.
(By the Internatemal News servltee.)
Atlantic City, N. J.. Nov. 16.-The Amer
lean delegates insisted today on certain
features in the Mexican border control
plan which again aroused the suspicion@
of the Carransa envoys. As a result the
negotiations looking toward a settlement
will be still further delayed.
The Americans argued that although
they agreed to the withdrawal of Gen.
Pershing's column from Mexican soil,
these troops must all be posted on the
American side of the frontier. The militia
must also be kept on the border. In case
of an alarm that another Mexican raid
is headed for United States territory,
these troops will be ready for instant
bez vice.
In a memorandum of which the com
missioners studied today the first article
provided:
"For the co-operation of the troops
of both countries."
The Americans said that the United
States must maintain a strong army on
the frontier and be prepared to strike
over the line again in case the Mexican
soldiers cannot prevent bandit raids.
The Americans also Insisted that Mex
to maintain a strong army in the North
ern Mexican states and be held respon
sible for the maintainance of law and
order there. Unless this was done and
the boundary of the United States was
threatened the American troops would be
privileged to act and with all possible
expedition.
Senor Cabrera, chairman of the Mex6.
can delegation, aid:
"We Mexicans are all working together
to perfect this agreement."
BOY SLAYERS FREED
r JrORS INJDAN
YouMgs" II -and 12 Years Old Had
Killed Rancher.
(By the Iaterastlemal News S"vlee.)
Twin Falls. Idaho, Nov. 16.-"Not
guilty" was the decirion here this after
noon of a Jury, after deliberating two and
a half hours on the fate of Harold Love
lace, I2 years old, and Lynn, his brother.
a year younger, confessed slayers of F.
Thomas Hamill, a school teacher. The
boys' mother became hysterical when she
heard the verdict.
Caught in the act of looting the ranch
home of Hamill, last August. the two
children barricaded themselves in the
house upon his approach and ordered
him to keep away on pain of death. After
a parley. Harold agreed to come and
give Hamill food while his brother kept
the teacher covered. As Harold approach.
ed the teacher, the latter seized the boy.
who shouted to his brother to shoot. The
lad blazed away and Hamill dropped
dead with a bullet in his brain.
The boys fled with Hamill's horse and
wagon. They took with them supplies
and eight guns and revolvers Six days
later they were overtaken and confessed.
HARD OF AVON TAKES
HAND IN DIVORE CASE
Judge Quotes Shakespeare in Separat
ing Youth and Age.
(By the Interuatieual News Service.)
New Rochelle, N. Y., Nov. 16.-Mrs.
Alice Pitcher Vosburgh, 23. and pretty,
can thank the everlasting genius of Bill
Shakespeare today that she is a free
%oman. Justice J. Addison Young grant
ed her a divorce from Edgar G. Vos
burgh, 6, a wealthy Dutcheas County
farner.
Justice Young turned to "the passion
ate pilgrim" as he made his decision:
" 'Crabbed age and youth cannot live
together!" he quoted. "Youth is full 'of
pleasance, age is full of care.
" 'Youth like summer morn, age like
winter weather.
"'Youth is full of sport, age's beath
is short.' etc.
"Shakespeare was right." continued the
court. "and I find for the plaintiff.
Next."
NOR LYNCES NEGRO ULMYER,
Melville, La., Nov. 16.,Tsam Grant. a
negro charged with slashing a white man
to deth with a razor, was take from the
city jail here early today aid aned to
a trestle by a mob of twenty men. The
jail was unprotected, the town marshal
having left It to hunt for a pair of hand
cuffs for Grant.
FATHER DID Of Wgggy,
Tilton, N4. H., Nov. 1L- g.
Colby died here today from wM over
the arrest of his daughter M M Mon.
tana, charged with the dat Mq . A
Tihomas, a politician of Thoben~p~
Mont. The young womnan was a Mwu
paper corespondent and Is aMia to have
shot Thomas for insulting her.
-Telegr~ah swiuje.,- ? ts.
New York. Nov. M-1sM
Brokair, 24, whom the - g,
e of the cleverest
in the ountry, wasaret b
detectifes.
The la was, seeri e a. e,
to death with a ser', was trs a
sesy, uguing the nm
aq ratvewhen h m.
MUMATIN GRASP
OF 'FRAJCOSERAJ
Gdw Defillidf of ii garia. Ba.
Batateed Dow. by French.
(y the t.......... News .ewiee
L0nda, Nov. X.-Monastir, the mel,
Bulgarian bas. In Macedonia and pIvots
iWt for the entire Bulgaro-Teuton line
gurdlng the Orient Railway from th
south. tonight is in the steel clasp o
the 1tafoo~gerbian Bakan armn sad I
expected to fall within fbrty-eight hour.
The last powerful nag of defesa..
built and Improved upon by the acm
of technical skill every hour of ever:
day of a whole year. was battered down
today like so much rubbish by the Frene;
"seventy-fives" and occupied by Frenc;
and Serbian troops In a sudden resump
tion of the "big push."
The Cerna bend'Is cleared of Bulgar
and Germans and the river's natural de
feuse qualities are definitely lost to them
The defenders are retreating headlong
upon Monastir City. At last oflicial ac
counts early this afternoon, the pursuer
were less than four miles away.
Ten onlages, each a vertable for el
one town and a fortiaed monastery fell t
the allies drIng the last twenty-hou
h..r.
| Telegraph Tips
Berlin. Nov. 16.-German pig iron pro
duction during October was 1.160,000 ton^
as against 1.115000 tons in September, th
Overseas News Agency announces.
Fairfas. Va.. Nov. 16.-Miss Matilda
Coleman Page, previously of Brooklyn,
N. Y., a niece of Mr. Thomas Nelson
Page, American Ambassador to England
was married here to Dr. J. Packard
Laird, of Devon, Pa.
Athens. Nov. 1.-King Constantine aa.
the Greek royal princes attended th.
state funeral of Col. Errangoudis. aw
aid-de-camp of the king. The coolnel wa
killed In the United States by coming I
,contact with an electric wire.
Philadelphia. Nov. fr-The Danish steam
ship Wiih Colding, bound for Antill:
with a cargq of bituminous coal, and
Pure Oil Company barge were in col
lision in Delaware Bav. The steamshig
was damaged and was beached.
Winsted. Conn.. Nov. 16.-George J
Groffman. monument dealer, of Meriden.
died suddenly of heart disease In Oa:
Hill Cemetery. Southington. while erd4
ing a tombstone over a grav, Hst
70 years old.
Boston, Mass.. Nov. 16.-A campaign *
education in the care of babies will be
conducted by the State Department o
Health in western Massachusetts. Head
quarters will be located in Northampton
by Mrs. Mary B. Dickinson, an assistan
in the division of hygiene.
San Antonio, Texas. Nov. 16.-On com
plaint of the postal authorities that sol
diers along the Mexican border have been
sending live insects. animals and reptile
through the United States mails Gen
Fumston has ordered that postal regula
tions be stricey observe@ by the militia
men.
Garrison. N. Y.. Nov. 16.-Mrs. Willian
Burbank. of Nelsonville. Putnam county
received word that her daughter. Mrs
Elizabeth Burban Hodgman, of Eldred
had given birth to twins. making three
sets of twin grandchildren born to hei
children in seven years.
Baltimore. Nov. 16.-John H. Crowley
a niuniepal Judge of Lansing. Mich.. rar
into and killed Edward Gurts. of Balti
more, when on a tour to Florida. Th
accident took place just one year after
his own son had been killed by an auto
'nobile in Lansing.
Icndon. Nov. 16.-The Prussian Diet is
about to take up a bill providing for ar
increase in the salaries of its members
according to an 'Amsterdam dispatch to
the Exchange Telegraph Company.
Freehold, N. J., Nov. 16.-Mrs. Alexan
der Young, Pilngle. whose husband diet
October 22 at Eatontown. leaving an es
tate value at more than $300,000. will con.
test his will on the ground that he was
mentally incompetent, and was unduly in.
Ifluenced. Mrs-.Pringle, who received $70.
000 under the will. has filed a caveat.
Peekskill. N. Y.. Nov. 6.-In payment of
an election bet William B. Amory, of
Peckskill, drew a crowd by rolling a
peanut six blocks through the village
streets. It took Amory one hour and
55 minutes to meet the obligation.
Philadelphia. Nov. 16-Julius Falk. violin
lst. paid U9M5 for a Guarnerius violin in
the collection of violins and cameras sold
at auction by the estate of the late J
R. Barton William. brother of Mrs. Johr
Astor. The-violin is dated 1710 and bears
the inscription "Fillus Andres Facit,'
which translated is "The son of Andreas
made it."
London. Nov. 16.-The Greek steamship
Barbara, 2,831 tons. and the Norwegian
steamship Lokken. 1.934 tons, are report
ed to have been .'unk by submarines.
London. Nov. 16.-Serbian troops hav
captured the villages of Tupavtsi and
Oniles. southeast of Monastir, according
to a Reuter dispatch from Salonika to
day. The Serbs took 00 Prisoners.
Harrisburg. Pa.. Nov. 1.-In preparm
tion for the coming session of the legis
lature, A. N. Pomeroy, superintendent o
public printing, today appointed J. W
Parks and George W. Wagner, Philadel
phia. and J. T. Wilson. Belleville, proo
readers.
HUBTIG OF" "N' HEAVY TOLL
ILansing, Mich., Nov. 16-Pren preaen
indication the hunting season of 19ui r
Michigan will break all recordS for fa
talities.
With the deer season open only fiy,
days there have been five deaths in tii
woods, four are traced directly to mistak.
lag of men for deer.
Since the opening of the huating seaso
leptember 1. when duck came in, tinm
have been twelve daths traeeable dieeth
to hunting accidents.
YALE STUDEN M imu.
New Haven. Conn., Nov. M.-Chartes f
Whitney, of Chicage, Ill,, Weath Yal,
student, today was held mijm
aponsible by Coroner Eli MIs. fr Ma
death of Antonio lMorcha, a fat hand
who was killed and his body Bangled u
the Milford turnpike by Wig-eye me
ing automobile en November . ,-.r
.cmner charged that Whtmp mag__
Idrinking before the aeume andwe
no usng due caution lain vngb
gmarOutings T.
Chaylestown,
i1.i, b
uONS OWu E
RMANIAS M1
Capture 1,200 Me in Vigor
ous Offensive.
(oy ehe Intermaflemm News sergies,)
London, Nov. 16.-Today's odiciat war
bulletins from Berlin. Petrograd *and
Bucharest show that Gen. von Falken
hayn's offensive against northweatern
Rumania continues favorably fr the
Teutons.
Driving the Rumanian before them
along the roads leading southward
through Rothenthun and Saurduk passes
into the interior of the hard-pressed Bal
kan kingdom, the Austro-German forces
under the former chief of staff again
captured five officer. and .1a men dur
ing the pat twenty-four hours, the Ber
lin war office announced this afternoon.
The battle for Campulung, now the
chief objective of the Teuton right, has
been raging with the utmost fury for
forty-eight hours, and no decision asems
as yet in sight. It is before this im
portant strategic railway city, one of
the "gates" to Bucharest, that King
Ferdinand's troops are battling with the
embittered tenacity of men fighting for
their homes and hearths, with their backs
against the "wall," which In their case
is the Danube. where Mackensen is
liable to try a crossing at any moment.
Indeed, for the first time in weeks, of
ficial word came today of renewed artil
Icily activity near the bridgehead of
Turtukal and the fortress of Suilstria.
Turtukal, best adapted for a crossing,
is at the same time the nearest point to
Bucharest from the south for the Ger
man and Bulgarian troops lined along
the river.
The Rumanian war offlee announced
cannonading at both points today.
Credit Is given by the German war of
fiee report to the tenacious defense of
the Rumanians.
I,5AD BAKERIES CLOSE
AS ROUR PRICE RISES
I Seriousness of Situation Revealed by
Secretary of National Association.
4 my the Iaternatieal News svee.)
'hicago. Nov. 1.-More than .100 baker
ies have been closed throughout the
United States since August I and others
are daily going out of business as the re
su!t of the soaring prices of grain, flour
and other comodities used in baking.
This announcement was made today by
J. H. Bell. gen(ral seeretary of the Na
tional Association of Master Bakers of
Amerlca. on his return to Chicago from
a meeting of fhe executive board of the
association in aphiA.rm, e, whish
the high cost or living problem was the
tople.
Mr. Bell said a serious crisis exists and
that Inintediate and firm steps are neces
asar to relieve conditJons, both in the
Interest of the consumer and business
men of the country.
LINER'S PASSENOiERS
WITNESS SEA BAlTE
Men and Women on Andania See Clash
Near British Coast.
(By the Intermatiomal News Serviee.)
New York. Nov. 16-Fifty passengers of
the Cunard liner Andania arrived here to
day with thrilling stories of the naval bat
tie betwieen British and German destroy
ers near the Downs on the night of Oc
tolier 26. The passengers had grand
stand seats for the battle.
The Andanla left London on the 24th.
but anchored near the Downs when
warnings were received that the Germans
were near. Two nights later the battle
was fought and the flashes of the tqi
gurs could be pjainly seen from the decks.
All during the night the firing continued,
but by dawn all had disappeared, and the
vessel prockcded to Plymouth for coal.
There. they said, they were Informed the
British lost eight trawlers, two destroyers
and an empty transport In the battle.
The Andania ran Into a terrific storm
in mid-Atlantic. the worst, Capt. N-son
said, he had seen in twenty-five years.
BRITISH EXPEL SUFFRAGIST.
iterlin. via Sayville wireless. No%. 1. -
British authorities have allowed MI
Emily Hobhouse. well known Engli
suffragIst, to leave England, accordint
to reports received in Berlin today.
3liss Hobhouse's Expulsion is reported
to have been ordered because of a series.
of articles she wrote comparing the Bel
gium of today with Boerish South Afrisa
during England's wars on the Boers.
DENIES SHELLING LIFEBOATS.
Berlin. Nov. 16.-The report of the coin
mander of the German submarine which
sun'. the British ship Rowanmore. parts
of which were made public today, rlt
cules the charges made in British soure -
that the undersea boat fired on lifeboats
containing the Rowanmore's crew. The
report winds up by characterizing the
charges as utteriy false.
WOXAN ON 700-N~IL HImE.
PhIladelphIa. Pa., Nov. 16.--One lone
dollar and indomitable optimism appear1
to he the capital stock In trade of Mrs.
Mary Kane, of New York, who arrived
in this city last night with her 14-year
old son, and announced her Intention of
starting on a severn-hundred-mile hike to
Dayton, Ohio, where she expects to make
her future home with three daughters.
1OESPRE ROM SAFE.
New York, No,. 16-A dipper "Jimmy
Valentine," who nnhalantly joked with
ta night watchman a. he "woriced."
robbed the but-giar-proof safo of William
Shaldon& Co., brokers, in the financial
d~atrict early today ani es-ped with
ui.2n In cash. He left behia-a him theu
t ends of do~iare in negotlabll securities.
The watchmann befleved the youtth was
,'"werkiag late'
n~an Soldier mIte by bark.
Panama, Nov. 16.-Clarence Ware. a
amsenhe of the eanst artillery. was se
Ivr* tlten by a shark in the canal
esdlte O8eeset Me was tahen
A-88
15,000 TORCI
PAY WILSC
WHIL 1
President Joins in Sin
As Chorus of 4(
Executiv,
Along streets lined with 150,00
mated at from 12,000 to 15.000 parat
red torches, hanners and floats. ia"i
Wilson back to the Executive Mausio
It was a greeting from his neq
which warmed his heart. and though I
out the dightest hitch.
The parade concluded, the Presid
family, stood for sixteen minutes on
listened to 400 choristers sing the t
with vim.
U-LINER LEAVES
Deutschland, in Early Morn
ing, Darts for Sea.
(my the Nateatedei !ew. !ervice.:
New London, Nov. 17. (Frid.yt-The
German m, rchant submarine slipped down
the Thames River and away from New
London early this morning.
Hier clearance had been kept secret by
customs officials, and her departure
caused much surprise. although it was
generally believed she would not wait
more than a day or so more.
Shortly after I o'clock this morning two
tus of the T. A. Scott Company snaked
the undersea boat out from her dock.
Thc Scott Company , associated %,ith
the Fastern Forwarding Company. Amer
ican consitnees of the Ocean Transporta
tion Company. owners of the Deutsch
land.
Great activity around the Deutschland's
'ier began to be noted last night. The
webbin.z. which concealed the undersea
boat from the river side. was let down
and the tugs made their appearance
At 1:50 o'clock in the moruing the sub
marine, towed by the tug, began to move
down the Thames River.
An unidentified man who i said to have
h'Id a package of gunpowder and a quan
tity of acid in his possession was cap
tured inside the stockade which was the
berth of the German merchant sub
marine 7. utschland today. The gry
got out night. An effort was 11d4
by the ople ounected with the
blockade runner to supprese the de
tails. and some of them are inclined
to deprecate the incident. but others
believe firmly that by the capture of
the unknown an attempt to damage
or destroy the boat was frustrated.
BRITISH MERCHANTMEN
HELD UP BY UNCLE SAM:
Guns Mounted for Coastwise Trips
Cause of Action.
(By the IJternatieaal N4ews Service.)
Norfolk. Va.. Nov. 16.-Two British
merchant vessels. each armed. were held
up here today by customs nuthorities
until their cases can be pa4s-ed on by
the State Department at Washingto:.
The steamer Tonowanda. Berkenheal
to New Orleans, with creosote. has a 12
pound gun mounted on her poop. She
was scheduled to leave yesterday but
ficials refused clearance papers.
The steamer Rimutaka. Juneuin. N. Z
to Plymouth. with passenegors and a casgo
N :t sI.000.o. has a 4.7-inch ; m
mountei on her -op house and carties
Efty rounds of tmmunitilon.
Treasury Department ofliials tat i.
that clearance r:iprs were be'nc refusdI
the armed British vessels Tonowan.ia:
and Rimutaka row at Norfolk b--susel
they derired to go on : coastwise vona.
They will have to ,eove their guns be
fore getting passports for a coastwise
trip.
BRIDE AND PARANOUR jLAIN.
police Search tor Young sausham
Fottoylug Gruesame Traged.
Detroit, Mich.. Nov. 16.--Detectives
smashed their way Into an eloquent do
mestic tragedy today by breakinz down
the doors at 431 Monroc avenue-the .cmsIa
of Richard Caparotta. On the floor lay
the bodi s of Mrs. Caparotta, a 16-year-old
bride, and Petro Damore. =. The bodics
were ,nrtially disrobed. and the room
bore evidences of a 'erri12 ttruggle Bit.
had been shot to lesth.
The police que serrchlu;g for the qir!'s
husband
PRESS SUPPORTS BERMSORD.
London. Nov. 16.-Lord Beresford. who
declared in the House of 9eers last night
that the "press had been muszled by the
most autocratic governmnent since the
days nf Pharosh." found a :endy, chamn
pion among British newspaper. today.
The independent section of the press
declared that the British government haa
purposely misled the people. pa laly
as to the mmnan of German subain.
TWO MUEDERS START RI0T.
Detroit, Mlich., Nov. it.-Two murders
and a riot of more than M persoes who
attempted to lynch a psoner smspeeted
of .e alaytnga spewad ? a of tester
through the suburb, of Wyate earty
toda-.
Harry PauL. Eand Mertis Harris, 2B,
both were ahot down frem ambush as
they left their fruit sto.. Soe. after
three hundred citisens stormed the jail
and denanded that M1amuet Gianota. a
supect. be aurmendsred to th.
Steafn. Noev. 3-An optadm -ee
m'al days age aboard the mm.amm am
munition abIp Baren Egesoa. at Arch
angst, caused the deaga et - and the
Injury of m otthe asejiag to word
,eessed ass teder ai es seoer
[ BEARERS
N TRIBUTE
50,000 CHEER
ing National Anthems
)0 Serenades the
Mansion
0 erectator., a marching host. eati
lem accompanied by twenty-six bads.
night welcomed President Woodrew
1 for four years more.
hbors. as the President expressed it.
astily arranged. was carried out with
mt. with members of the White Houn
the portico of his official home and
ational anthems. in which he joined
0 Tre hcad of th, parade reached the
White Hous, at 1:3 o'lck and %as
mfeeted by the Ptsidentia salute of
twenty-one bomb., fired from the Mci.
ment grounds. A halt was made v'hii"
the members of the WisVon-M11arhall
Democratic Club of the District and the
local committee. headed by Charles M -
Darr and Walter Cotello. marched to
the main entrance of the Executive Jan
slon.
(In behalf of itl peraders. Preident
Darr. of the D-trict Demnocrati, (lub.
felicitated the President in a briecf im
promptU speech.
"IEneedImaIy Gratero."
' am exceedingiy grateftl for this
demonstration," the President reped
'Express for me to the r'.opte of tile
lirtrict and of nielghborinz Sttes which'
tarticlpate my heartfelt thanis for th,' i
good wiAles and co-operation."
A reviewing stand was ere,.rd in the
court of honor opposite the White House
grounds. Inst of the paraders artied
their neek. inI passin this point f.-.
glimpse of the Preaid. rit. but upoin I
advice of 1'r -'ary G;yo le did ~t
risk the possibility of contracting c, -
while revile-ing the line. Seeret,: .
State Lansing. Secretary of War Hak.
Secretary of the Treasury McAdoo. sec
retary Daniels and Other members of Ih
Cabinet, with their familes. made th'
ofMial review.
It took forty-seven minutes for the pa
rade to pass the reviewing stand. Th
rmarchera occupied twent-flive minutes
in covering the route. Not the leat im
pressive feature was the cavaleade of
auton*W'e which wound up the proce
min. TI ' - were more than USe me
chines tl this sCnon, from h e
'flirver" to the aprepaementens liinou
sine. and the din of the auto hern and
srens inade coeversaion bmpij. ble whtie
they wese passing.
Mmo e ee.
Aa soon as the last parder had passd
the chorus of 4on singers left their sta-d
and marched into the White Hous..
grounds. President Wilson met thm o.
the portico. Mrs. WJIlsoM. Mrs Wit,..
H. Rolling. Mi, Helen Woodow Ron_
Miss Bertha Lolling. Joh' tand!;.h) Rl.1 -
inc. Dr. Carv Grayson. T;,-t T
multy and other White lHoule ec,' a
in' the part y. Percy IR. Foster. aho hal
oireted the singing at tihl la. t . 1 -
tucurals, led the singers in "Anrt '.
The President wore a henvy overcoI
and a slouch hat. He kept his ?,
thrust in his pockets ar a beat tim. r l
lis left foot during ih first v m . E
joined with the singers in the iait I
The Wilson quartet. composed of M-ls
Fannie Shreve Heartill. Miss XIlte ''h-i, -
wth. W. W. Sorrell. and Fransis It
Heartill. gale "(Carr.- Me Rack to (1:1
Virgirnv.' and the President loinld
the shoruses. The seretilade cos..1
thi ingi.: ,f ti. S;ar S;-ngi. i Ila
loer." fotlow In: ahich -th, Prye..an.
i li-ad.r Foster and nniraiulato :.
on his di-ectior of the songst-rs.
Amenfers with naiete.
"Youare' the grentest man in th
r enthuciastic Demo t ,ou;.
-d. thc Pr(Fieidet turred to ent.: the
WNh t -4iue.
!ii -i;rn.I and acksnowIedged the rom
I'imeit Wi, a salute and a sile. and as
he retired. a band struck u "Dixie
lturing the parade a fireworks demon
stration was staced on the Monlment
arounde. and tihe ieremonies at t.
White iouse were constantly pun -tuated
with the nois, of bursting bombs and
rockets.
The route of the parade was Penn, I
vanis ateneJ to Fifte'nth street, in Fif
tenth sIreet to New York avenue. thence
ot Pennsylvania aetiue part th White
11011L'.
Durinl, the pai ade Pennsylvaniat nienti^
was !ind rolitly on c:her sid. with cli
zens uiwln thv pros'esion moved. Thou
sands of e ale srgei against it- rope,
along Pcnnsylvania avenue fiomn Four
and-a-half to Fifteenth streets north,- '
on1z before the marchers were given In.
order to fall in.
Frm to rastems.
Charles W. Darr. president of the 1. -
son-Marshall Asociation. formed the or
tiees of his asso-iation in platoons of
four each. The officers of the staff of
lh ?hief marsha! tame next, comopkting
thts inr-ldu torv tnit.
Mar".hing. 1Xl :!Ilreast. with flags. ban
ne. and ei, man carrying a small
American fiag over his shoulder. the main
body of machetrs formed on the Avenue
just off Fati1 street. Mounted palies
led thec way.
One hundred horsemen came next in
.line. They were followed by the Marine
Hand, whicib struck up lively airs and set
ti'e blood of thes me. in line tinling as
they oved forward. The studts at
Georgetown University fall in right be
hind the members of the Wiisn-Mraflt
Aocieation, whncb followed the smell
platoe. of its ems.
Marchingr with Mr. Ihg were Searstory
to thes freideet Tdm7t. Ditrict Cams
n'ltmer Newman, and the esosre ot
the a.onhens=. ach carried a the
stickt, and fresh emes were set et -
quetiy as the proeedesan dend.
Batv of (meesa.
Aa the heed at the processia smen
EUemeth steet, where the ee at a.
leakdr was backed up in toeesh
earaes half a bloat deep, a centm
salve at cheers and hurrah. brake es.
Thi was further a=mad' wene the
M ad and, catehag the enk# at the
moment steku Amsrte."
Oe bisk further te the Am a
raet a which hmsb -o e
kg eke sad -ele e he am
were sre to push the ereed base e
the reps easte ha Band.
As the kee passed in beat at a
'a --c esat. ee
