htfu&Ywp. -wjg
rc.
-i- a Jk A. V- iS
STRA
NIGHT
EXTRA
ituentn
NIGHT
EXTRA.
6
oi. m.-no. GO
rnrLADELPiiLv, i' in day, novemmsii it, ismi
ComioUT, 1BI. sr mi fciuo I.imik Courixr
PBIGE ONJBJ OJamf,
r sv0itm-i!im' '
it 1
c
(J-LINER SINKS
TUG; 5 PERM
IN DASH TO SEA
I Deutschland in Collision
as Motorboat Rushes
Toward Her
SUBSEA CRAFT ONLY
' SLIGHTLY DAMAGED
Returns to New London.
.Will Be Delayed by
Inquiry
MEN ON SMALL BOAT DIE
Captain Hinsch, of Interned Ger
man Ship Neckar, Falls Over
board; Saved by Sailors
NEW LONDON'. Nov. 17. The dennan
merchant submnrlno Dcutschlnml, which
left early today for Qermnny, rammed hnd
wink one of her convoying tUKB. Tho tug
as crossing the submorslblo's bows to
ward off a motor boat which was bearing
down upon tho Deutschland.
The tug was tho T. A. Scott, Jr. Five
rnembers of her crew. Including the cap
tain, John Gurney, were drowned.
Tho damage to tho Deutschland was so
flight that It was said she could booro
palred In a week. Her bow plates were
buckled by tho Impact.
The news of tho disaster was sent to the
oijlce of tho T. A. Scott Company hero by
wireless, and several of tho Scott tug-i Im
mediately put out to tho scene of tho dis
aster and escorted tho Deutschland back
to port
VICTIMS OP DISASTEIt
The drowned wcro:
Captain, John Gurnoy.
Engineer, William A. Caton.
Fireman, Edward Stone.
Cook, Clarenco D. Davison.
Deckhand, JSugeno Duzant
Officials are unablo to say whether or
sat the occupants of tho motorboat In
tutted to harm the Deutschland, but every
' oni was taking tho utmost precautions.
Accordingly, when the motorboat suddenly
tppeared out of the light hnxo rind began
peirlng close to the Deutschland, the T. A.
Stt, Jr.. while racing at.,lop.apeed, swung
directly In front of the submerslble'B bows
. to get between her and the small boat.
The accident occurred nt 2:30 o'clock,
' out hour after the Doutschland left tho
8Ufe pier, in a stretch of water known as
the Race. The Tlace is about twelve miles
front Port-
CRAFT LIFTED INTO THE AIR
The tugboat was struck amidships on the
Ur board side and sank Immediately. The
note of the submarine bit deep into the
tug's side. Tho llttlo craft's stern was
llftd Into the air and her propellers, free
of th water, hummed llko giant electric
fans.
Csptaln Frederick Illnsch. of the Eastern
Forwarding Company, American agents of
the owners of the Deutschland, had a nar
row escape from death. He was standing
on the deck of the T. A. Scott. Jr., talking
to Captain Paul Koenlg, of tho submarine,
through a megaphone vvhon tho collision
took place. Captain Illnsch was thrown
into the water.
United States Steamboat Inspectors Wil
liam E. Wlthey and Harry N. Ilankln this
morning began an Investigation of the col
lision and their reports will fix the respon
sibility for the accident. It is likely that
the departure of tho Deutschland will be
delayed some time by tho Investigation.
The Deutschland carried ' a :, 000,000
cargo of crude rubber, nickel, zinc and
tiler bullion.
The decision to depart was quickly and
Quietly ma'de, and few saw the submarine
as she sllppfd from her berth and sped
Continued on rasa Eleven, Column Three
UNION LEAGUE SPENT $12,277.20
Treasurer of National Campaign Com
mittee Files Statement of Elec
tion Outlay
Horace C, Jpnesf Conshohocken! treas
urer of the national campaign commltteoi
of the Union League of Philadelphia, to-'
4y filed a statement at the State Depart
ment In Harrlsburg, showing that during
th recent campaign tho committee received
ltt.m.77 and expended J4J.277.20,
Charles Palmer, of Chester, defeated
candidate for Supreme Court Judge, spent
lets than B0, The following spent less
Hum S0; Thomas V, Jenkins, Philadel
phia, Democratic elector; Daniel a. Hen
dricks, Chester, Prohibition elector.
THE WEATHER '
FORECAST
For Philadelphia and vicinity
Partly cloudy tonight and Saturday,
Kith lowest temperature tonight about
thirty-fix or thirty-eight degrees; fresh
toutherly winds becoming westerly Sat
urday, . LENGTH OF WAV
sSll? .48aro.IMooarUM.ll.40p.nl.
sa wi 4 3 p.m, Moell' touiba, 8:15 a.m.
DELAWAKU B1VEB TWB 1HAM1E3
CHESTNUT 8TKBBT WHARF
EmTJ.V" Si11'11 iHlsh wtr T:IOp.tn.
"Ur J.iS it ni. 1 jUw water. .1.40 p.m.
TBMPKBATIKB AT EACH llOVB.
jjl -"I 10t 111 131 II it 31 4 IS
R.138I 411 441 451 4j 461 401 431 43
'TBie Vacant WqMWM
GOVERNMENT
HI i tWW" i '"In ...ijli ' J' .- J. i. " "-NC"w,,wl'lBw j)KS
This mnchine, driven by Sergeant William Ochcr, U. S. A., whoso portrait
League Islnnd after traveling ninety miles from New York in ono and a
MONASTICS FALL
NEAR AS ENTENTE
FORCES ADVANCE
Allies Push Two Great
Planking Movements
in Macedonia
MAY SAVE RUMANIANS
PETROGRAD, Nov. 17. Austro
German forces driving toward Campo
lung, Rumania, have, captured the vil
lage of Liresht, the War Oflice re
ported today. The Russo-Rumanlan
forces holding Tirgujiulij, in the sector
of the Jiul Valley, have bceji compelled
by the Austro-German' attacks to evac
uate the place.
-" ' i-brDOn?o. n.
The fall of ronastlr within three days was
confidently predicted here today with re
ceipt of fresh news of the victorious prog
ress townrd the Macedonian clty-of French.
Italian Russian and Serbian forces. Fight
ing through snow, sleet nnd mud, the four
Allli-s hae Impetuously swung twice In
llnnking movements of glgnntlc magnitude
and have a lsellke grip on the Monastlr
neighborhood
General Serrall refused to be drawn Into
attacking the Bulgarian defenses to the
south of Monastlr defenses which Sofia
some time ago pronounced Impregnable
end, according to all reports which rcac'.i
here, has forced retirement of the Bui-gnrlan-Tcutonlc
defenders from these posi
tions without their hardly striking a blow,
by the threat of a strong enveloping move
ment. Full of Monastlr will be a distinct blow
Continued on rare Eleien, Column Four
FOOD SUPERVISION
URGED BY PERKINS
Head of Mayor Mitchel'a Com
mission Recommends Bul
letins Like Those Issued
by Weather Bureaus
NATIONAL, STATE, CITY
NCW YORK. Nov. 17. As head of
Mayor Mitchel'a food supply commission,
Ueorgs W. Perkins toduy declared himself
In favor of national, -State and municipal
boards for the supervision of the country's
food supply,
Ferklns's plan' would be to supply pro
ducers with bulletins similar to those now
Issued by weather bureaus Informing them
where they can l?est market their supplies.
This, he believes, would prevent much
waste. The Federal commission suggested
by Perkins would disseminate this Informa
tion. Perkins would have a State commls.
slon to Investigate reasons for the present
high price of food staples and to And, the
channels which control the supply of food
to the cities.
Tho city commission, according to the
Perkins plan, would control cold-stbrage
houses, markets and posalbly delivery sys
tems that might affect the prire of food.
WASIIINPTON. Nov. 17. With an in
crease of 160 per cent In exports of meats
Blnee the outbreak of the war, and with a
constantly greater proportion of her grain
crops leaving tho country, America s as
suming an ever greater share of the burden
of feeding stricken Europe. This. In the
wake of short crops. Is given by govern
ment officials as one of the foremost rea
sons for high price on foodstuffs.
During the first eight months of this year,
ending with September 1, the United States
has shipped abroad mora tian J20O.000.000
worth of meats and dairy products. This
presages u total eiporUtlpn of these
products for the year ( nearly a third of
a billion dollars- During the same eight
7
Continued on 'M Tea. Column Tare
AEROPLANE LANDS HERE ON FLIGHT
U. S. AIRMAN ARRIVES,
CLAIMING NEW RECORD
Reticent After Flight From New
York, but Snys Time
Was 1:15
Lack of Information about a government
aeroplane that descended nenr League
Island has kept Its movement-) clothed In
mystery. Tho machine, driven by Sergennt
William Ochcr. I". S. A., camo from New
York Into yesterday In ono hour nnd fifteen
minutes, landing nenr TM" Vnro's Leaguo
Island olTlco on tho Southern Boulonrd
To questions of tho curious who sur
rounded tho machine on Its arrival Ochor
would say nothing Ho did reply guard
edly to questions put by an Interviewer, In
which he told of the time of his flight.
If his claim that he lraoled the ninety
miles In nn hour nnd a quarter is correct,
a new air record between this city and
New York has been established.
Shortly after his flight, Ochor went to
the residence, of his slstsr, Mrs. .AjigWsUls
W. UeckerTof !l58"SoutrfTwentleth B'treet,
where lis spent the night. Jlo was, Just as
Sphinx-like today as"hn was last night, but,
nevertheless, It li believed that tho aero
plane wjll ascend lato today with Wash
ington as Its destination. Inquiry of Gov
ernment officials failed to reveal whether
tho mission Is for testing tho vnlue nf
aeroplanes in coast defenses or whether
an ncrlat mall route mny be established
between the capital nnd tho metropolis.
It Is supposed that Sergeant Ochcr Is
testing what Is known ns a "stabilizer." a
machine which Is used to keep the aero
plane on Its proper balance. Tho machine
Is of the Glen Jtnrtln type and Is worth
about $11,000.
It Was Lucky He Tripped
Falling Into nitroglycerin with a lighted
candle, William Katerd, sixty-one years old,
of tho merchant vessel Macclnaw, escaped
Injury except for a cut on his head, which
required several stitches nt tho Pennsyl
vania Hospital. Tho candlo vvns extinguished
when he tripped on a hawser and felt
through a hatchway into the hold loaded
with explosives, otherwise
TRANSIT COMPANY
TO DEFINE ATTITUDE
Oflicials of Corporation Expect
ed to Attend Joint Council
manic Committees' Hearing
on Mayor's Ordinance
ITS ACCEPTANCE LIKELY
The Joint Councllmanlc Committee on
Street I'.allvvayH and Finance this afternoon
will hold its second public hearing to dis
cuss Mayor Smith's transit ordlnunce, In
which the draft of a le.iso between tho
city and the Ilapld Tranoll Company was
Incorporated,
This meeting was called primarily to
hear the company's views. Chairman uarc
ney, of the Finance Committee, wlio is
presiding at the hearings, sent Invitations
early this week to officers, directors and
stockholders of the n.pld Transit Company
and affiliated companies. Although the
company made no formal reply to the Invi
tations. It was stated ut the V It. T execu
the offices that official representatives
would be sent to the meeting
President Thomas K. Mitten, Chief Coun
sel Kills Ames Ballard and perhaps Iloratw
G. Lloyd, a member of the transit com
pany's directorate, are expected to be tn
corporation's spokesmen.
Oscar Deasley, representing the Over
brook Improvement Association, who ap
peared last Friday and suggested several
points In which Ihe lease could bo amended
to safeguard thV city's Interests, lus pre
pared his pointy In the form of a legal
brief, as suggested by Mr (larfney, Director
Twining, of the Department of City Transit.
This will be presented at the hearing.
The company will signify Its vvllllpgness
to accept the general terms of the proposed
agreement, It Is understood, with soma
minor modifications to be agreed upon at
conferences between cqjnpany and city
representatives. Whether or not the pom
pany will reveal Its plans for financing the
equipment of th new lines as provided in
the proposed lease 4s not known.
Mr. Beasley in his brief urges that the
Transit Company be allowed 'only 5 pr
cent interest instead of fi per cent for Its
Investment to equip tho Unas in order that
ihe city's surplus income might bs greater,
lie also urges that in agreeing to protect
Cntlnod oo fare Kljtattta. Column Tare
Begittimthe IwRft .t& Everujig Ledge Tomorrow i.n..NQ
appears in tho circle, landed near
quarter hours, tho aviator reports.
ROADS AND MEN
READY TO BEGIN
8-HOUR INQUIRY
Both Sides Prepared for
Showing Before Con
gressional Committee
MAY INVOLVE ALL LABOR
The nntlnn-nlda fight over tho eight
hour law wan centered In Washington today
ns labor's nnd capital's lenders prepared
for tho greatest Industrial strugglo In
ears.
Tho business men of the country, as rep
resented by tho national council of tht.
United States Chambers of Commerce went
Into session nt tho capital to register tho
sentiment of tho nation's business men to-wanl-tlM-lgbHwrlHKr-i,t,l"
--V--
Tho Nnllonnl Association of Slate Ball
way Commissioners also outlined its views.
Iteprescntatlvcs of nil Interests In tho dis
pute began to gather In Washington for
tho opening of tho congressional Investi
gation of tho entlro railroad situation Mon
day. Preparations wcro complete for tho
Investigation with a list of witnesses In
cluding scores of representative men who
aro to present vnrtous phases of the cuntro
v ersy.
FIRST AllflUMEXT IX COURT
AfiAINST ElflllT-HOUIl LAW
SCHEDULED FOR THURSDAY
WASHINGTON'. Nov. 17. Test of the
constitutionality of the Adamson eight
hour law probably will bo based on the
Injunction sulu of cither tho Union I'a-
Contlnurd on rose Tuo, Column Tbree
'DRYS' READY TO STRIKE
FOR A NATIONAL LAW
Bryan Expected to Aid in Battle
Before Congress This Winter
for Passage of Prohibi
tion Act
SIIEPPARD TO LEAD FIGHT
WASHINGTON. Nov. 17. "Dry" work
ers, encouraged by the declaration of Wil
liam Jennings Dry an that, ho will devote
tho next four sears to putting prohibition
Into the Democratic platform, aro prepar
ing for a vigorous fight In the coming Con
gress la force through prohibition meas
ures. They feel they will have the Influ
ence ami probably tho personal assistance
of the Commoner In their work.
Dr)an himself will como to Washington
next week lo confer with "drjs" here on
plains for the- "campa'gn." He expects to
see the President and probably will discuss
his program with him Bryan says he will
not be more than a day and a half away
from Washington at any time during the
winter session of Congress.
Senator Sheppard, of Texas, win arrive
In Washington next week to take charge
of the Senate end of the work, It Is un
dirstood now he will Introduce not only a
national prohibition amendment and one
for the District of Columbia, but also a
"dry" 'measure for the Hawaiian Islands.
The National Legislative Committee of
the Anti-Saloon Lsague of jmerlca. In
cluding officials of State organizations all
over the country, have baeu Conferring
regularly here during the last ten days.
keeping In direct touoh by wire with Sen
ator Sheppard. They believe tho results
of the last election, turning four more
States dry, and elsotlng dry legislatures In
two others. Indicate that the time has
come "for the big drive."
With the election over they feel that
polities will not play m Important a part
and that many Cungrasmeu who feared to
express their views before election will now
supjwrt them.
QUICK
HUGHES'S LEAD IN MINNESOTA CUT TO 94
ST. TAUL, Mhitt., Nov. 17. Hurjliea's plurality over President
Wilson in aiimicBotn vvns cut to 01 in offlclnl returns from nineteen
were Ctmtltlos received here totlny. The vote now stand: Hughes,
I3a,2IO Wilton, 182,152.
TODAY'S RACING RESULTS
First Uowlc ice. Si-yeni-olds. selling, 5 12 furlongs Flare, 111,
Ambioso, $18.00, $7,00, $0.80, flist; Clold Bond, 113, Williams,
12.70, $10.10, second Key Eiinis, 100, Kopnleumn," S20.-10, third.
Time, 1.00.
Sceoml Uawlc ince, nil njjes, 1 mile Billy Ollvcv, US, Hnycs,
?0.00, ?U.U0, $2.90, woiij.Mcictmnt, 100, McAtec, ?1.10, ?2.70,sccoiul
Capital riisio, 100, Ambrose, ?2.00, third. Time, l.-U -l-D.
UODZIANKO UE-KLECTE1) PRESIDENT OF DUMA
I'lrrilDUItAU. N'uW 1?. Michael llorirlimkn Im bt-cii rq-clcctccl president of
the Duma. (Koiislniiko uvlnnttH to tho OUtlnurUl fnctlon in Iho Dunut. Ho hint
served ns president nf tho Uumn for three consecutive sesiluni uiul Is regnrtlctl tit
ono of the niott utile tncdl.itor.t between tho re.-ictlonnry nnd progressive elements In
IVlionrnd
KUSSIA DENIES SEPARATE PEACE REPORT
l'UTllutlKAl). Nov. IT. 1'eislslent repot ts that Ituisln will conclude u scpurnto
pence wore formally denied today. Accordion; to Information from n nemlolllclul
source, tho I'orciKii f'lllco hui .ciil Iclcxinuis to nil Kimltin ieprcscntntlvcB in tho
Allied countries dcckirlni; Hint It lu ltussin's llrm Intention not to mnlte n fcepnrnto
peace under nn.v r'ri-iiiiiitnnces whatsoever. The icportn are cnlled "nbnurd
GENERAL CHEMICAL GIVES BONUS TO EMPLOYES
.N'.U' YOI !IC. Nlv. 1 7. '1 1 1 1) liuncrnl Chemical Company lodny announced n
graded bonus to employe i of from !i to 174 per cent of their cnrnlngs from
December 1, 191C, to November 30 of this jesu depending on length of service nnd
loyalty.
MAY COTTON SELLS AT NEW HIGH RECORD PRICE
N'KW YOrriC-N'ov. 17.- May cotton wild at l'l centH this morning, n now high
record. Spot iiovvs from tho -South Indicated u big demand all through that territory
ARMED U-BOAT REPORTED OFF CONNECTICUT COAST
NKW YORK, Nov. I". The New York livening Journal tbli afternoon received
word that n Htrnngn ntibmnrlne, with n sun mounted on Its deck, could bo noon
near Hnrtlctt'K Reef, off tho Connecticut coast. Tliu mibmniino vviih believed to
bo n (Icunan t'-boiit walling to convoy the merchant boat Deutschland back to
Bremen.
TURKS DEFEAT RUSSIANS IN PERSIA
--CtWH'r-ANTIfv-OPIitlr-Nnvr-lTni di-featwrtlicf
Ruvrianu nenr llumadan, captuiiiig the village bf HlUJar. tho Wnr Office riiported
today.
AUSTRIAN SEAPLANES RAID ITALIAN POSITIONS
VIUNNA. Nov, 1" Austro-llungnrlnn icnpinncn bavo iikoIii attacked Italian
positions at Dobeido, honclil nnd Vunni'Kllnnu, iua u repot t l.ssucil by tho Ministry
of Mnrlnu todaj. "
SCHOONER WRECKED OFF PORTO RICO; THREE MISSING
WASHINGTON, Nov. 17. Commander Kdvvln T. I'ollock, of tho transport
Hancock, In I'orto. Rlcnn wntern, icportcd to tho Navy Department that tho Amer
ican schooner l-'rcd If. Davenport was wrecked In a storm Wednesday night off Capo
Francis, I'orto Rico, nnd three members of her ciow nro mls-slng. They nro James
E. Mulberry, first mnle. W. L. Hlllcrd, cook, niul W. C Vhignrde, scatmin. Tho
Davenport's captain, vvhoio name vvai not Riven, was seriously Injiued. Four
members of tho eievv were rescued by the United States tender I'otomac and hnvo
been landed ut I'ueilo Plata.
U. S. FIGHTS NEW HAVEN COMBINE
WASHINGTON. Nov. 17. Tho Doii.ii talent of .Itisllco today lllml with the Inter
ntato Coiunu'icu Commlhslon. a brief domaiidlng the Immediate ilhoi cement of the
Now York, New Haven and Hartford Hallway Company fiom its vvnter lines In
New Kngland tcrrltoiy. Tho department chaiged that tho operation of water lines
by tho railioad was "monopolistic and In restraint of trade." Business nnd civic
organizations filed pleas with tho Uoverument hevcrnl weeks ago asking that the
company bo permitted to contlnuo to opcruto water lines, tinting that othervvlso
n hnrdshlp would bo forced upon Now lhiglaud commerce.
ROOSEVELT TO HUNT IN SOUTH SEA ISLANDS
Nl-JW YORK, Nov. 17. Thcodoie Roosevelt Is going on nnothcr liuutlnK expedi
tion, lids time to tho South Sea Islands Accompanied by Mrs. Roosevelt, bo-will
lenvo New York the llrst week In February, it was announced today, for the FIJI
Islands and tho Kamoau Kioup In tho South Sea. Tho Colonel and Ills vvlfo will bo
gone two month:). Expeditions Into tho Interior of tho two groups' of Islands will bo
mudo for tho purpose of studying inummal lifts and tecurlng specimens.
RESUME COMMUTERS'
Tho i'ubllc Service Commission will
Thursday to levlew all tho (impositions
to determine commutation talcs in tho
Mccormick and cummings plan Wilson's inaugural
WASHINGTON, Nov. 17. Chairman Vnnco C. MeCormlcK and Vivo Chnlrman
Homer dimmlngs, of the Democratic National Committee, came here today to
urrango preliminary details for I'icsldont Wilson's hocond luauguiul, Thuy con
ferred with tho I'losident at lloou and later arranged for the establishment of
permanent headquarters lu Washington In charge of W. It. Holllster, assistant sec
retary of the National Committee.
WILL LAUNCH FIGHT TO MAKE ENGLAND DRY
I,ONDON. Nov. 17. A campaign to mako England dry will shortly bo launched
In Parliament. It bus tho active support of King George, himself a teetotaler.
Champions of prohibition, seeing their chance (n the present food situation, wlU
Introduce a motion In Commons prohibiting the manufacture of all alcoholic bever
ages. In connection with this campaign a movement is under way to decrease the
widespread eixcesslvo drinking among women which has developed since the war
began.
WILL PROBE GOVERNMENT MANUFACTURE OF ARMS .
0
WASHINGTON, Nov. 17. The War Department announced today the following
board to Investigate the advisability of complete Ooyernment manufacture of muni
tions: Colonel Kernan, Twenty-eighth Infuntry; Weujenant Colonel Bummera)!,
field artillery; Major Fuller, Ucnsdict Crovvell. Cleveland; It. 'G. Ithett, Charles
ton, S. C.
U, S, SUPPORTS CHICAGO BANK'S LOAN TO CHINA
CHICAGO, Nov. 17. The Continental Trust and Savins Kaidc of Chicago, has
tho "diplomatic support' and protection" of the United States. Government In making
a loan of ?6, 00.MW to the Chinese Uoverument. It was announced today. The loan
is a direct obligation of the Chinese Itepubltc and Is secured, both as to principal
and interest, by revanuts deiiveii from that nation's tobacco una wine taxes.
NEWS
CASE NEXT THURSDAY
meet In public session In Philadelphia next
ndvnuced by tho commuters unit railroads
suburban district.-.
WORLD CR0W
:m
ivi
SEEN FOR CUt
Sale of New York Plaiit
on Delaware Opens'- t;
New' Era $
x
BOOST FOR WHOLE
CITY, SAYS OFFICIAL-
r ..y
President Knox to Continue'.
at Head of Concern in'V.
Camden ,f
NO "AFTER-WAR" FEARS
What Samuel M. Knox Sees
in Philadelphia's Future'
J Philadelphia will soon sur-
pnss Clyde, England, ns tho
S'lFi i Krcitcst shipbuilding center.
Philadelphia will supply great fleets
which will scour tho, acas for Amor
lenn trnde. i
2 Boom in shipbuilding indus-
try will plnco Philadelphia
m tho front rank of world ports
Generous share of world trnde, "will
como through this city.
3 Great stimulus is certain ajl
nlong tho line. Other indusT
tries will boom and now industries al
lied with "shipbuilding mny locate in
Philadelphia. . ,.
Philadelphia will become tho world's
greatest shipbuilding center n tho result -of
tho purchaso of tho properties of the
New York Shipbuilding Company by ths
Anierh-nu International Corporation In as
sociation with the International Mercantile
Mnrlno Company. This prediction wan
mado today by Samuel M. Knox, president
of tho Now York Shipbuilding Company,
Mr. Knox's statement Is regarded as
carrying particular weight becausa th
purchasing companies have already decree!
that ho should remnln tho head tot' the
- K--... V..-,. c. I. .....,,.. i ..
.i. , urn aiuiiuuiiuing company ana uirect
tho futnro efforts of his company toward
world-supremacy In tho shipbuilding trads.
Mr. Knox prophesied that I'hlladelBhui
would bo lu n short thus outdistance the
Clyde ns a shipbuilding center, and that
.tills, city ' wQiild In ,the. nrar future dtvkBjai ; , 5- ;
"position In tho front rank of tho worl'ds - 'X
, perts. 4.
WORLD SUI'llIJMACV m
'The prospects for tho future," he dV-i
dared, "are well calculated to make hope '
be.it exultantly In tho breasts of ThlladelV
phla business men and In tho breasts of
Philadelphia port Idealists. Tho purchase
of tho New York Shipbuilding Company by
uiese Dig interests will automatically twine
the world-center of shipbuilding Industry
to Philadelphia. For some thno rhlladel
phla has been this country's greatest ship
building center, but now we will have world
supremacy. "' .
'The New York Shipbuilding Company
will, become America's most powerful and
cffectlvo Instrument for seizing world rads.
We will pluco upon tho seas tho American)
merchnnt fleet which will carry American
goodi to all of the ports of the world.
"Nn more favorable location could have
been picked for n shipbuilding Industry of , ,
world Importance than our present slten'
tho Delaware Ittver. Here wo have tb
very cream of the shipbuilding labor of
the country craftsmen who are skilled- n
every phase of tho Industry, men who In
Intelligence nnd Ingenuity surpass any othsr
shipbuilders In the universe.
"On the Delaware, ninety miles from the
sea, vve can build ships In time of war or ' '
In peace without Interference from anybody,
Wo' are closer to the great steel centers'
than any other shipbuilding city, and be-
causo of tlijs we can get cheaper steel.
Coal and other raw materials are right
nt our back door. Nature by 'her arts has w
conspired to mako our plant the mosjt won
derful shipbuilding site on earth. Wo have
a wide river with a deep channel which
permits the passage of ships little and big
right to our front door f ,,
A3 POUT HOOSTKIl ' ,-'
"Our plant Is already the best equipped
In the country, but It Is soon going to be;
the best equipped In tho world. We are '
not afraid of what Is going to happen artert
the war. Before the war vve could not com-T
pete with the Clyde because of the Itfw - '
standard of wages there. Ilut wages 'are,
high now ut Clyde and we aro convinced.
that they are not going down after the,,
war. i
"I am certain that the great boom In I
shipbuilding here will prove a wonderful
stimulus to riillaaetpnla. as a port. -,&,?. . ,,..,,
"It will cause a boom anions- othutif , '
Industries Industries which are alwuyi ,
tries which are closely allied with. Vflfjfcy
building. I have no doubt either but thiC "
nevy Industries will come hero and, .build ' .
nlants. Philadelphia, too, will receive its '
lur9 of the great world trade which vrljt
b rtiuua nosaitiie py tne construction -pj, ,
hundreds of new ships flying the American
flag." '. .,. ,
Th NwYfflBC3hIpbulldlng Cumpan
Mveuleen yeartriur va( -pmnc-at vm,q
la oru of the most modern In the couiile
a. M Knox, now president of the
pany, will be uleeted president oX tn
awnpany. and its orpawiation wW
kDt intact. It was said
Tho American International, which
the larireat Interests In the deal, in ,
new company formed recently by the W&r
tional City Sank of Nw York far HHr
purpose of inereatinK foreign trade. Jfwmum
A Vanderlip lit Its prsMdiNt
-i
eeju wm. js .
s1:. i
WKj j?"
&-; . :
9Mb'0S i
mm:-'l
dnm,M
SmtP. ,XE
'f
