A Business Guide
Real Estate and Court News
Daily fa Times-Dispatch
fUdjtttotii* Srime^-Pi^pafctj
Fix Your Own Car
Guerrlich. in the Sunday T.-D. j
Will Tell You How
66th YEAR
* OMMB .tfl
M MIIHIl :?2
RICHMOND, VA., FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1916.?TEN PAGES.
WKVH'KH ?CLEAR
PRICE, TWO CENTS
GARNET! BECOMES
New Member Is Chosen as Chair
man by Vote of Judge
Wingfield.
PRENTIS ON SUPREME BENCH
Judge George M. Harrison Suc
ceeds Judge Cardwell as
President of Court.
Within :i few minutes a f t er taking
tho oath of olllcc, < 'hrist.opher I! '!ar
nett. recently ;l {> ;?oi 111 ?? 0 by Governor
Stuart to fill Ihe vacancy on the State
1,'firpornilon Commission by the
elevation of .1 ii<1k?* Robert R. Prciilis.
its i.-halrinan, t?? (lie Supreme Court,
yi'stf-rtltiy was Heated chairman of the
f < oinmisBion.
T!i<- proceedings were brief and
? Itlinut particular ceremony Judge
William F. Rhea, ranking ihciiiIi't of
the commission sim <? t he resignation
?.f Judge Prentis, presided. Fouimis
sioner .1. Richard Wingllebl, in whose
hands the matter of the chairmanship
rested, was the first to vote, casting
liis iiatlot. after a brief explanatory
address. fur Mi. Garnett The future
chairman then voted for himself, tak- |
ing the position that he could. as head 1
' of the commission, rentier better service
to the State Judge Rhea, with the!
issue already decided, refused to indi
cate liis choice
Mr. Oarnett. as chairman of the
.State Corporal ion ? Commission. becomes. j
ipso facto, .i member of the State Tax .
Hoard, to which body he bat* rendered
<-Otlf>picUOUS H'TVlee during the last
few months as eounsel ami executive
assistant. Though no hint bad been
Kiven by those who held the secret as
to who would suceeed Ju<lc Prentis.
those who were in a position Intel
ligentlv to analyze the situation sue- 1
gesteii Mr, Oarnett. principally for the i
teason that he, in his capacity of legal
adviser to the Tax Hoard has made an j
exhaustive study of the State's tax
problem*, and is better fitted, perhaps, !
to help in their solution than one who'
Is not quite so intimate with them
\mv(;kiki.d casts i?i-:? im\o
voti-: koii uAitMm
After declaring that his ate and
health precluded him from standing
for a position which carrier with it
so much of arduous work. Commis
sioner Wingfield. in casting the first
vote, explained why lie should vote
for Mr Oarnett
"It puts tr.e iti a very embarrassing
position t<> decide between you." he
said. "There is an old saying. "I could
be very happv with either, if t'other
dear charmer were away" The situa
tion Is that Mr Oarnett succeeds Judge
Prentis. who was ele.- . ; last February
? ?halrrcan for one -.ear In some States
tiiev have rotation in office, and that
j.\n\ be a good way?we have never
tried it here in Virginia. It would
seem natural that Mr 'Jarnett should
come into .Tudce Prentls's place, but.
on the other hand. .fudge Rhea has
been loneer on the commission than
any one of us Priority of service, or
of standing in service, in legislative
bodies is generally a< ted on. but not
in vs riably.
"There are some practical considera
tions that appeal to me. One is. our
work Is divided up into departments?
certainly as to attention to details. To 1
put Jurlge Rhea in now as chairman i
would give hint comparatively new
work, and Mr. tJarnett would have new j
work. The work as chairman is re
lated mainly to the issuing of char
1 ters. That takes most of the time, in
volving legal questions. As to the Tax
Hoard, which the chairman become* a
member of ex officio, that hoard has
* immense power over the persons and
property of the citizens of the State,
and it seems to me desirable that all
sections of the State, as far as prac
ticable, tdtoiild be represented on that
hoard. The ilovernor comes from the
same section as Judge Rhea, and that
section would seem to be adequately
represented now. For these practical
considerations I cast my vote for Mr.
Oarnett."
^ ji di;!?: it Hi',a doi;s
.\OT VOTK .\T AI.Ij
Judge Rhea, who was presiding, di
rected Mr. Garnett to vote next.
"1 vote for myself." said Mr. Oarnett,
"not for personal considerations, hut
because I believe 1 can be of greater
service to the State in that position
than otherwise. 1 am sorry that I am
forced to cast my vote before Judge
Rhea expresses his choice."
"If that is the wish of the majority
of the commission." said Judge Rhea,
"it is not nccessary that I should vote
at all. Mr. Wilson will prepare the
order appointing Mr. Oarnett chairman
of the commission."
The new head of the body fprst came
into prominence, politically in 1911,
when he managed the campaign of
Representatives William A. Jones and
t'al ter Glass for the United States Sen
ate against Senators Martin and Swan
son. Two years later he directed the
fight of John Garland Pollard for At
torney-General of Virginia, his prin
cipal winning out over the incumbent.
[ Judge Samuel W. Williams, of Wythe,
j by n narrow margin. Mr. Pollard, on
I succeeding to othce, made Mr. Oarnett
I Assistant Attorney-General.
Mr. Garnett was born in Mathews
t'ounty on July SO. 1ST."), and graduated
from the University of Virginia with
the degree of master of arts in 189S.
From 1901 to 1904 he was dean of the
Woman's College, in this city, finding
time to study law at night. On leav
ing the Woman's College he was pro
fessor of law at Richmond College, for
three years.
The election of Mr. Garnett's suc
cessor as legal adviser to the State Tax
Hoard probably will be made within
the next few days. Governor Stuart,
who Is chairman of the hoard, said
yesterday that he had not issued a
call for a meeting, and had no definite
date In mind. The board is composed
(Continucd oi7~Thir<l Page.)
Probe Into High Prices
of Food in Full Swing
I liy Associated 1
\l ASIII.\<>TU.\i .'November 10.?
The liivfMllKaiiiin rnentl) InniiKii
ruted It) llip Depart men t of Juxtler
Into lltr minrlnK of prlcrn of food,
??on I ii ii il other nriTNNliirx of ho
ImiiiiIIcil In Interntatp trade in non
In full mivIiir In .Vr'vr Vork. < IiIcuk".
I'lllHliurch, Mm FranclNeo nnil other
eitlpn. To-morrow tlio movement
may Inkc on a liromler neope upon
? bo return here of Chnlrmnn Hur
ley. of I lie Federal Trade < oiiuiil*.
nIoii. who Ii u m announced llnil llir
<?0 in in I mm I on mny cnnfililrr I nun r <11
ntely wliclhrr to lnveMllt;nte tlip In
I'ruiinl ('0*1 of fnod prmluetN.
If flip eoiiiml-odon tnkex net inn,
llie i wii luvcHllKiidonN will hp ,-on
dneted Hrpnrnlrli',
Olxtrlet n I tnrnrj n in flip clllpn
nnniPil, and In nihiip otlipr of ihr
more Important po|iiilniion i-pntprx,
Iiiivp lippn d I reeled particularly to
PMiniinp thoroughly into any hiim
ppcted concerted net Ion or pro
ducprs or dealpr) by combination or
ncrppinpnt to rnlnp prlcex of nrliclpR
?-r?NMlnic Mntp llnpn. nnd to InMtltute
??ro.tpciif Ioiih nhrre unrrnntrd. So
fnr thprp Iinvp lippn no dpvelnpnienta
to announce.
SUM OF SIS,000 ASKED
E
Xrcileti to <*?rr.v on Work, Virginia
RnptKt Association
Is Told.
I?I,A.\S r<)K HOVS' SCHOOL
To Ito Uicitlcd at Wytheville, if Town
Haises $!?'">,000?Hcsolution Criti
cizes Cicnorul Funston for Alleged
Action To wart 1 Kvanjjelist*;.
ISpe< Sal to The Tlmes-Oispatch. ]
\? >RK< . \"A.. November Ifi.?Six
ty -five thou baud dollars was the
amount for home mii-sions requested
of the Virginia Baptist tieiwral Asso
ciation. In session to-night at the First
Haptist Church, by Hp v. R. l_i. Gar
land. secretary of the State mission
hoard. Mr. Garland declared Hip hoard
could not begin to do the work prop
erly with less than this amount, tliat
at least tivp additional missionaries for
work amoiiR the foreigners of the .Stale
were needed, as .sell as money for the
conduct of the mountain school in
Ruchanan County. Rev. M. .lain^s. of
1 'rewe, and Rev. P. C. Motowski, of
Richmond, two of the three State mis
sionaries. told of their work and of
need for more men in the field.
Presenting a report of Sunday school
and colportage work. He v. .1. T. Watts.
? >f Richmond, emphasized Die import
ance of the teacher training- depart
ment, and the need for more accurate
records of Stindi-y school work. He
stated that Baptists were backward in
the matter of Sunday school statistics.
From the figures he hail been able to
nattier, lie said, the enrollment in the
schools of the Stat" is RtS.OOO. lie
said that during the eight years sii.ee
the teacher training department had
been created -.0-2 diplomas had been
granted to graduates in the normal
course. f'thers who spoke on this
work were: Rev. o. !?. Sams, of Lynch
burg; I <r. Cecil Cook, of Charlottes
ville. and Rev. C. M. Billings.
\ r.\v i*astohs i.vritoni cei>
TO Till-: ASSOCIATION
Before any discussions took place the
new pastors who have come into the
association during the past year were
Introduced by l?r. R. R. Garrett, of
Portsmouth.
The association decided to-day to es
tablish at Wytheville a school for boys,
at a cost of $100,000, provided the town
of Wytheville will contribute $23,000
of the amount. It was said to-night
that it is not expected that any diffi
culty will be experienced in getting
Wytheville to contribute, or in rats*- I
ing the rest of the money. The school
would lie of the same grade and char
acter as Intermont College, at Bristol.
Captain C. (.}, Snead asked for sev
eral hundred dollars for improvements
to the. dormitory at Fork Union Mili
tary Academy. Xo action lias been
taken.
The most striking feature of this 1
morning's session of the association \
was ;iie adoption, by a rising vole, of
a resolution criticizing General Fred j
Funston, commanding the American !
troops on the Mexican border, for his!
alleged action in forbidding evange- '
lists to tell the soldiers that they are '
"lost sinners." General Funston. the \
resolution states, granted permission
to Preachers to hold religious services,
"provided these preachers did not tell
'he men that they were lost sinners."
After stating that the general as
sumed the role of theological judge and
censor, the resolution drawn by Rev.
R. 11. Pitt, D. D., continues:
"This would be an absurd situation
if it were not at the same time so
serious.
TO TAKR fl? (IMCSTIOV
OF GOVKll VMIO'T t. IIAI'I.AI VS
"In view of this incident and of the
importance of the whole question of
government chaplains, and in order
that our people may he fully informed,
we authorize and instruct our presi
dent to appoint a committee of five to
gather all available information 011
this subject and to report at the next
meeting."
Mr. Hutchison the moderator of the
association, is chairman of the com
mittee provided for, and the members
ar. t-> sec President Woodrow Wilson
as soon ns possible.
The report on home missions was
made by Rev. J. F. Vines. I), n.. of
Roanoke, who stated that church ex
tcmlon work has made splendid prog
ress. in spifo of the necessity of flu
irhing the work of the Judson Me
irorial. Rev. George W. McDanlel. n
n.. of Richmond. In his report of the
committee on t te report of the cdu
(Contlnued on Second Page.)
WILSON GETS ROYAL I
WELCOME "HOME"!
People of Washington Join in
Enthusiastic Celebration in
Honor of Re-Election.
10.000 MARCH IN PARADE
Chorus of 300 Voices Serenades
President With Patri
otic Songs.
WASHINGTON. November 1?The
peoplf- of Washington and of nenr-by
sections of Maryland and \ irginia gave
President Wilson ;hi PiillMisiiistlo home
coming oolobralioii to-night m If nor
of lii.s r?-ion. M"re I bun 10.00")
'strong, the_\ n?i?fioin the '"apitol
to the White House to the music of
many I>:11?<? -. ami wavitiK red lights,
while varied-colored oombs burst over
lie:i<l. Wh?*ii they had passed, :i chorus
| of 300 voii ^s serenaded the President
with "Tin Star-SplaiiB^ii Uaniitr.
"I ?ixie." and other patriotic melodies.
Th" celebration participated in
l?y l>t?th in? n aii'l women members of
I >emoora t ic organization.-. government
clerks, sutf ra u ist s. ivpresenta t j ves of
union labor ami oltlaens goie.-t ally.
Thousands pack<d the sidewalks ami
,|ic"ri''i as tin* parade passed.
The President, with Mrs. Wilson ami
a party of r? httiv? s. viewed the pro- j
cession from the northern portico of
the White Mouse, fiontlng on Penn
sylvania Avenue. The President was
in his best moot), lie .smiled as if in
tensely gratI fled. and his moving lips
showed ne sang with the choir. The
national anthem was sunt: with a back
ground of wildlj waving (laps.
Tiie parade teemed with unique fea
tun s. Mrs. .Joseph Seal, of lluffalii,
N. V . dr??:;ed as "Miss Democracy."
even to the traditional ankle-length
pantalettes stood on an illuminated
tloat. More than 100 members of the
Women Voters' Union made a great hit
in their white skirt?, blue coats and
fancy re?|. white and blue paper i-el
mets. The Railtlmore Seamen*' I'nion
j was represented by a IIoat on which
stood a group of men in yellow oil
skins and sou'westers.
From a reviewing stand outside the
White House grounds. Secretaries' T?*tn
sing. Raker and Redfield. ami members
of their families :'ud other ranking
officials watched thy demor.st rat ion.
A I.I. AMKItir.VN KNVOV.s
k.\ i'kctki) to hi:si?;x
Illy AMorlate*! I'rfcs.l
WASHINGTON. November 1?.?in ac
cordance with custom in the diplomatic
service. American ambassadors and
ministers abroad are expected to re
sign as a sequence :o President Wil
son's re-elrction and ruccessioti to a
new term of ofllce.
The practice which has become gen
eral in thi Ameiioan diplomatic ser
vice since President Roosevelt frankly
requested the resignations of tail of
the ambassadors and ministers, will
afford President Wilson the necessary
opportunity to carry out plans he has
projected, involving a very consider
able reorganization for the diplomatic
set vice so far sis the heads are con
cerned.
That a considerable number of the
incumbents will he. asked to rennin
in otlico is certain, but t-onie do not
wish to remain, and some have proved I
unequal to the heavy requirements of |
their stations. It is said that in the I
course of one of his informal talks to
newspaper men some time ago. presi
dent Wilson had precisely this situa
tion in the diplomatic service in mind
when he remarked "some men grow in
otlice and others swell up."
It is expected that the general ten
der of resignations in the near future
will relieve President Wilson from the
necessity of adopting the course taker
by President Kocevelt and calling di
rectly for the resignations.
\n < n.\\(d: i.\ roi.rrit ti.
tl.|li\MK>T or IIOLM'.
t By AfwoctAteil I
WASHINGTON, November 10.?No
change in the apparent political align
ment of the Sixty-Fifth Congress has
occurred thus far as a icsult of un
completed canvasses of the votes in
close .list rids. j
Democratic leaders who had hoped'
to gain one member in the Third i
Louisiana District were disappointed
to-night when announcement was made
of complete oflicial returns showing
that Whit P. Martin. Progressive, hail
been elected over Wade Martin, by
ninety-nine votes.
In the Tenth North Carolina Dis
trict. where Democratic leaders are i
predicting that canvass of the returns I
in Runcotnbe County will show Repre
sentative J. J. Rritt, Republican, to
have been defeated by Zehulon Weaver,
Democrat, the result still Is in doubt,
and court proceeding;- have been in
stituted by the Republican candidate,
which will delay vhe canvass until
next week.
Hopes of the Democrats for a gain of
one vote in Michigan and possibly in
Minnesota have nol been abandoned.
Representative Rerkes. of the Second
Michigan District, telegraphed to-day
that an error had been found in Jack
son County, which, if corrected, won If
Rive him the election by a plurality
of fourteen votes. In the Twenty-first
Pennsylvania District. tlin Democrats
still have some hope of overturning
the result. C. II. Rowland. Republi
can, now has a slight majority over
William E. Tobias. Demo.-rat.
To-night the new 1 loose seems still
to stand: Republicans. 217; Democrats,
212: others, fi.
HIGHKS IIAS I.HAD
OK 42."i IN .MINNESOTA
I By Associated Press. 1
ST. I'Al'l,, MINN . November 1f>. --
Charles 10. Hughes's lead in Minnesota
stood to-night at I2j. With fifty
seven counties' tabulation sheets re
corded at the State House, the un
olliclal records from the remaining
(Continued on Second Page.)
VIEWS OF BUSINESS
ON ADAMSON LAW
9
Will Be Sought at Special Meet
ing of Chamber of Commerce
of United States To-Day.
TO LAY BEFORE COMMITTEE
Department of Justice at Work
on Government Defense to
Railroad Suits.
I< . \ .(.# Pro*.-; j
WASH INUTuXi N'f vfiiitior 1 *?.? l>is
cussion c.r the r;<i1road situation, and
particularly the Adam^on oiclit-hour
law from thn standpoint -if tItcoun
try's business interests will begin here
to-morrow at a speeiul meeting of the
national council >>f the Chamber of
i'i'Iiiiikt ?? of the United States. Many
prominent spr&kers an- on the pro
Rram.
'I In'- meeting ?v*av ? .t11 ? ? I fur the pur
pose of liavilli; business interests affil
iated with tli?? chamber express their
views just before the joint congres
slonal tiommittee appoint* ?l to Investi
gate railroad fiuestions. meets here
iipxt week.
In addition to the Adamsou law,
questions of strike prevention and
way- fixing; for common carrier em
ployees by the I nterstatc Commerce
Commission will be taken up.
WOllKIMi <)\ DKTAII.S
ok (?ovKit.v.tiK.VT
Department of Justice attorneys to
day continued working on details of
the government defense to railroad
suits attacking- the constitutionality of
the Adainson act. It is, probable that
an effort will In.- made to take one of
the .suits to the Supreme Court as
quickly as possible, so that a final de
termination that will he binding upon
all lower federal tribunals may he had
about January 1, when the law, unless
enjoined; becomes operative. So far
as the department is informed, the first
suits set for hearing: are those of the
Santa and the Union Pacific Rail
roads at Kansas City, November 23.
The Joint congressional committee
announced to-day that its tirst hearing
day, Monday, will he given over to
State railway commissioners. These
commissioners have been In session
here for t<everal days, and sentiment
has been .stronjr in favor of appear
ing before the joint committee to tight
action by Congress tending to take
away their powers over Interstate car
riers. The> oppose any increase in
tin* l-Vrieral Commerce Commission, or
authorization for it t<. act in different
parts of the country in sections. After
the railroad commissioners, will come
railway presidents, hankers, economists
and representatives of such labor, and
Industrial organizations as wish to he
hea rd.
i'ij a ,\ I 'd it KM-'oitci-:*ii-:vr
OK ('O.VTHAt'Tl'AI. KKI.ATIO.V
At the meeting of the Chamber of
Commerce to-morrow a plan for pre
venting the Interruption of public util
ities operation by strikes will be pre
sented by Henry Towne, of New
York. The plan provides in substance
for the enforcement of ti;e contractual
relation between public utilities and
employees.
l?r. Charles II. Van llise. of the Uni
versity of Wisconsin; Victor S. Clarke,
of the Carnegie Institution, of Wash
ington: Charles Nagel. of st. Louts;
former Secretary of Commerce and
Labor. Harry A. Wheeler, of Chicago,
and John 11. Knhey, of Host on. a for
mer president r* the clian\ber, also will
make speeches on railroad prohle.us.
l-'ot M)i:itS' ASSIH I \TIO\
AI'I'ltOVKS 'I'.OST s; ITS
f By Assoc! a toil Pro.-*., |
NKW YOriK. November 16.?-Action of
the railway companies throughout the
country in beginning suits to test the
constitutionality of the Adanison law
was approved to-day by the National
Founders' Association at the closing
session <>f i;.*- convention here. The
association is composed of more than
600 manufacturing corporations in all
parts of the country. It was stated
at the convention that this step is the
tirst of a series of similar actions to
be taken by other industrial associa
tions composing the newly organized
National Industrial Conference Hoard.
For Our IVomen Readers
The Timcs-Dlspntcli offers n uni
que booklet of recipes to the women
of It It'll in mill.
A nation-wide demand lias nrlxen
for e.\pert ndvicc on the hiti lug of
canned food. There were over club!
tlinuMiind requeMtN for kucIi ndviee
nt the I'linn in ii-l*u el tic Kxpoxltlnn.
A stuff of Nflentlatn mill special
ists liiin been at work for months In
n special laboratory investlgatliiK
nnd experimentini(.
Their work lias JiiMt been com
pleted. The Times-l>lM|?ntell I* able
to offer you ItH results.
('mined food In usually ready to
ent, lint it In not ready for lin
en refill nnd fiistldlous housewife to
serve nt her Inble.
The booklet here offered denlx
thoroughly with the modern prob
I em In cookery?-h <iw to prepare
canned food.
Some households use much canned
KoodM, others but little. Kvery
household uses noine. \o household
can afford to be without thin new
book If Its kitchen boasts n cau
opener.
Vou can secure n booklet free by
seiiillnK a n t stnmp for poMt
iiKe, with your name nnd address, to
Till'! TIM I'JS-l MM PATCH IM'IIIIMA
TIO.X ItlltlOAI.
l'*rederlc J. Ilnskln, Director,
Washington. I), t'.
BELGIUM APPEALS
TO UNITED STATES
I Asks Active Intervention to Stop
Deportation of Workmen
Into Germany.
BEFORE STATE DEPARTMENT
Coercive Measure Declared to Be
Contrary to Laws of Nations
and of Humanity.
I By Associated Press. I
WASHINGTON. November Hi.?An
appeal fur activc intervention by 11ir
l?nit?(l States to stop the deportation
??f Belgian workmen into ^Germany
wn? presented to the State Department
to-day by K. Havenith. tlie Belgian
I minister. The Belgians, Mr. Havenith
raid, practically ;tre being comt>etied
to light against their own country,
contrary to tlie laws ?<f nations and
lu?mar. it v.
The American government already
I ha.i Interested itself in this situation.
I and Charge Grow, of the embassy at !
Berlin, has been Instructed to discuss
it personally with Chancellor von
Bctjimann-Holl weg. although no for
mal representations are authorized.
coMM t \iiwnox snuiittko
TO STATIC DKI'AIITMKNT
Minister llavenith submitteil the fol
lowing communication to the Slate Po
pa rt ment:
"The German govcrnor-ge neral in
Belgium is forcing thousands of Hel
gian workmen who are unemployed or
without work, to go to Germany to
work in the quarries, in manufactur
ing- concrete and in the lime kilns,
under pretext that they are a drain
upon charity.
"The Belgian government protests
energetically against this coercive
measure, which Is contrary to th| law
of nations and tlie laws of humanity.
"The government of the King asks
I the active Intervention of the govern
! ment of the United States to obtain
the cessation of this deportation of
IVlglan workmen into Germany, and
in obtain the liberation or those who
have already been deported.
"The Germans claim that these work
men are not employed in war indus
tries. it should be remarked, how
ever. that they are employed in in
dustries directly connected with the
war, and the employment of this Bel
gian labor releases a great number
of German workmen who are sent to
the front. Thus, these Belgian work
men are compelled practically to fight
against their own country."
I SKMPIjOI .1IK .N'T III B
KNTIItICI-Y TO UKItllA v*
In making public the communication,
tlie minister issued a statement, which
said:
"The Belgian minister calls the at
tention to the fact that the unemploy
ment of Belgian workmen is due en
tirely to the action of the German
government which lias requisitioned all
the supplies of raw materials and de
stroyed the industrial plants hy re
moving the machinery. The German
government has absolutely paralyzed
all business in Belgium: furthermore.
? lie German government, which ,-laims
to try to encourage Belgian industry,
h:is imposed a war tax of 40.000.00i>
francs a month (about twenty times the
normal amount of Belgian taxation)
for the past two years, upon a country
which is without business and which
Germany herself has impoverished by
war and devastation."
PRICES MAY BE PROHIBITIVE
Officer* Want Aviation Station I'lnced
on Hampton Roads If Suitable
I erni* 1 an lie Arrnn^c^l.
I By AksocIaipiI Ptohm | ?
WASHINGTON, November 11>.?Al
though a board of officers of the Coast
Guard service has reported in favor
?>t establishing the ttrst coast guard
aviation station somewhere in Hamil
ton Roads, prices on available sites
have appeared so prohibitive that it
may he decided to place the station
elsewhere.
'I lie station is planned as the nu
cleus of a,, extensive coast guard
aerial service. and while officials
would prefer to have it on Hampton
Roads, it was said to-day the station
might he forced into another locality
by prohibitive land prices.
NO IDLE MEN IN CHICAGO
Municipal l<odfrlnK-l1ntiMr lOmpty, Al
though Wintry Weather
Prevnlt*.
IH.v Associated Preas. |
CI I It 'AGO, November 10.?The mu
nicipal lodging-house is empty to-day,!
although wintry weather has prevailed '
for nearly a week.
Itinerants have failed to appear this |
year, it is said, on account of the
great demand f..r labor throughout I
the country.
Owners of cheap lodging-houses are
complaining that while ordinarilj at !
tliis season their places are till.d >.?
capacity, and tliey have to turn men.
away, at present, despite tlitu|,i :
snap." less than half of their beds are
being oeeuiled.
SIENKIEWICZ DEAD
I'oIImH Novell*!, Author of "lino YihIIs,**
Passes Away nt Vevey,
Itxerland.
I Hv Associated Press I
NKW YORK. November Hi.--Henry
1\. Sieiiklewicz. tlie Polish novelist,
the author of "Quo Vadljj," is dead
at Vevey, Switzerland, according to a
cable dispatch received here to-day by
the Polish victims' relief committee.
Hlenkiewicz had devoted much of his
time recently to Pidish relief work.
Deutschland Slips Out
of Harbor Early To-Day
\l--.\\ I.IIMION, ( UN \ ? November
IT.?'I lie lieuIh?'IiIiiiiiI, tlie t.rrinnii
.ntilitniirlite nlilt'li ii rrl veil here on
November I. slipped out nf lIn* liur
hor ill an nirl) hour to-tlu) hound
lor Itrritlcii. >Iir I?? 11 I??t pocket i?t
tlie Mil to pier nl I tJM? o'clock, and
Man low ed down tlir harbor l>> two
(iikm. Her clenrnncr had been ke1>t
Hrrrrl l>? i'UnIoiiin oIIIi'IiiIn, ii ml hrr
deiuirture caused mueli surprise. nI ?
tliouuh It wiik Rcnrrall}' believed she
would not wait more llinn n day or
mo niori*.
Shorllj after I o'clock thin uiorti
hiK tno tins* of the '1'. A. Scott
t'onipmiy ??Miiaki'il" the undersea
liont out from licr berth. 'I'lie Scott
t'oiopuny In tissoclii t?-d with the Kust
era l-*or wanting Company. \nierlcan
coiiHlKaeen of the Ocean Transpor
tation t omptin.v, onnrra of the
Drutsi'hlaad.
tirent activity around the Deutsch
laiid'i pier lieuan to lie noteil aliont
inliliiiuht. The wehldiiic which con
ceuleil the undersell hunt front the
ri?er side was let down, anil the
Iocs ainile their nppcarance. At
I ::tt> o'clock In the morning the miiIi
ninrlae, towed hy the Iiikh, hrenn
to move down the ThameN Itlver.
Tliliil conditions were Koiid, nnd
the niihinnrlne made rapid progress.
At time* her deck* were nwanh. At
? o'clock ?he wan nearly at the en
trance of the linrlior. tine tUK wan
lradlnp the way and the other fol- I
lowed at a clone iliMancc.
APPROVES MOVEMENT
FIR UNION OF CHURCHES
Methodist ('onference l'asses Resolu
tions Counseling Reasonable
and JLihernt Spirit.
SKIWKATK CHIKCI1 FOK XFGKO
Interesting Report Is I'resentetJ t>n
Work of Ferruni School?Bishop
Kilgo Praises Work of Churches in
(lunlot t esvil Ic Distriet.
Resolut Ions expressing the. approval
of the Virginia Conference of the move
ment to unite the Nortn'crn and
Southern branches of the Methodist
Church and counseling the maintenance
of a reasonable and liberal spirit at
the meeting of the joint commission of
the two churches which will consider
plans for union in Baltimore On De
cember 2s were adopted without dis
sent at tlie session of the conference
held yesterday morning in the Broad
Street Church. Re.v. James Cannon,
Jr., D. Ichairman of the committee,
presented the resolutions. Tlie other
members of the committee were Rev.
I-:. H. Uawlings, I), l)., Rev. \V. Ashttry
Christian. I?. l>? Rev. \v. |{. Renu
champ, I>. |>? and Rev. 15. T. Dad
inun, I). P
The commission, which will meet In
Baltimore this winter, consists of
twenty-live men from the Southern
church and a like number from the I
Northern church. The members of the
commission were appointed by the
general conferences of the two
churches. The ineetiiiK will continue
several days, and plans will lie made
which may lead to the reunion of the
branches which parted in lS4t over the
question of slavery. In order for the
recommendations of the commission to
become effective, they must lie ratified
by the two general conferences, which
meet hut once in four years, and pos
sibly by tlie annual conferences.
Negro Methodists should be organised
into a separate body organically
joined to the rest of the church, say
the resolutions. agreeing to the pro
posal of the last general conference
of the Southern church.
IIKI'OHTN OX WO It K III-'
MOUNTAIN SCHOOL,
Rev. 15. M. Beckham, principal of the
Kcrrum School, a mission maintained
In the mountains by the conference, re
ported that the school was in excel
lent condition. The number of pupils
was increasing rapidly, lie said, pupils
and teachers were inspired by a spirit
of enthusiasm, and the institution was
'?n a tirtn financial basis. Mr. Beck
bam spoke of the wholesome moral in
fluence of the mountains and the
healthful country food.
To that Bishop Kilpo assented. "I
always thought," he said, "that you
could raise a boy better on sorghum
than on lluyler's."
Preachers of the i harlottesville,
Danville. Kaslein Shore and I'arin vdle
Districts made brief reports of their
work in i lie past year. Bishop Ki|?o
interrupted frequently with questions,
admonitions and praise. < if the f'har
lottesville District he was particularly
coinpliincntarv.
"A wonderful work of mace has ^ .ne
on in that district in the last two or
Hue - >? so's. 1 have been watch-iur it
ll is one < the highest districts in
i!ie whole el; urch. It is a rural di>-- !
trn i. <'h.'tr.oltesville thinks it i.> a-t |
biK as a hemisphere, but it isn't a city.
. t: ipii 1.' ill has been pouring out
'?h- *!?!?? 11 . p III.) hills .,f tint sec
tion."
IIIMIUI* l';vs Til lilt T|.;
'I O H Olt Iv ????' t ill Ml |(
The *?'*??l " reports iiiov I l.ie bi.-'iop
?o pa \ 111? i i tribute to the w in |; ..i . |U. I
< bin. h. < i.? preacher doe< .i.oic f'.i
the ?.i ens of the Stat j of Virginia
than all "he Judges, sh>?i(.?*. iuri;,'
tmiK'ixiUes . beaters and cir- us
biped. : a id the bishop. If u,c laymen
would 11uit supporting outside s. mi
iclicians and benevolent organizations,
ami w iinbl put their money in the
woik of ti< church, there \v> >.h| i.,.
enough funds to support all tlie Sn\
.'a; '?i bonis. missionary enterriiises
'ta'liies of the church, and the world J
would he evangelized in the pi t scut
penr ra t ion.
Xenr the close of the morning ses
sion Bishop Kllgo retired for a time
from the chair and called Rev T. Mc.S*
Simpson, D. |?., presiding elder of the
(Con11iiucd on"scctiniT Rage, j
'i
ENTENTE TROOPS
CONTINUE ADVANCE
TOWARD MONASTIR
Seriously Break Teutonic
Lines East and West
of the Cerna. ,
i BERLIN ADMITS LOSS
OF SOME OLD POSITIONS
Austro-German Armies Force
*
Further Retirement of Rou
manians in Transylvania.
1USSIAXS CAIN IV TH)ltltl 1>JA
MaltP Furlher Progress SoulItwartl,
Enemy fturniim Villages as
Tliey lletrcat.
I llv t^.1 !'ro>- 1
T.''NT">.V. November 1 <V In the Mace
donian theater the entente troops con
tinue to press the Teutonic allies in
the Fernn River region. and, accord
ing to the Serbian War < ifllee. have
scrlmisly broken their lino both east
and west of the Cerna. southeast of
Monastir. capturing four additional
villages east of the river, and on tho
western side driving them hark from
several additional points toward >inn
astir, Berlin admits that in tiio Porna
region Hip Bulgarian-German forces
have loft old and occupied newly pro
pared positions.
To the east tin' iiritish have taken
tlte town of Karakaska, on the cast,
side of l,ako Tahinos.
The Austro-Gerntan armies in the
Transylvania theater in the Alt ancl
.Mill Valleys have forced a further re
tirement of the Roumanians, and also
have made progress in the Rothenthurro
and Szurduk I'ass regions, taking 1.1200
prisoners. On tlte west Moldavia front
Itussian attacks east of the Putna Val
ley were put down by tlte Teutonic
allies, as also was an offensive in the
vicinity of tlte Oituz Pass.
Whilo Berlin asserts that there have
been only minor engagements in l>ob
rudja. Petrograd reports that the Rus
sians have made further progress south
ward. ancl that the Teutonic allies con
tinue to retreat, burning villages be
hind them. Denial is matlc.hyrq?r.Hn
of the assertions that the Roumanians
have captured tlte town of Ronascio.
on the Danube.
Bombardment* are taking place along
the entire eastern front in Russia and
(ialieia, according to the Petrograd War
Ofllee. P.erlln reports a repulse of a
Russian attack southeast of Riga.
MTI'ATIOV \ MA It I7.IA
.madm sommwiiat onscrnE
The situation east of Goriziit is made
somewhat obscure by the variant claims
of the Vienna and Home War Ofllces,
both of which recorded successes for
their respective armies. Vienna as
serts that the A list rians have captured
another Italian trench in this district,
together with sixty prisoners and two
machine guns, while Rome records 'he
reoccupation of trenches evacuated hy
the Italians on Tuesday.
Fighting in the Sotnme region of
Northern France shows little diminu
tion in intensity.
The British advance in the Ancro
region sofius to have halted. London
announces only artillery activity dur
ing the night. Berlin, however, re
ports hea vj attacks by lite British
yesteirtay. notably one <<n the village,
of Grandmurt. which is declared to
have broken down.
The successes against the French
scored by tlte Germans north of the
Sotnme yesterday are reported by Ber
lin to-day. They consisted, according
to the statement, in tlte capture of the
eastern section of the village of Sail
llsol. where the French were menacing
the German positions in the St. Pierro
Vanst wood, and of French trendies ott
the northern edge of this wood.
1 lie French reacted against the
Germans south of the Somine, near
Chan I hps. where a German counter
attack was announced yesterday to
have wrested a part of the village or
Pressiore from French possession. The
French recaptured this ground last
night. Paris announces.
ItltlTISII iimatmv off
in IIAMM.HKWPi; ATTACKS
H Kill, IN. November 1 (via Sav
vill.-l. ?Attacks l?y Iiritish troops on
the German lines along the road from
Maillj t.. Sen e. and also to the south
east of Beaumont, north of the River
Ancro. were beaten off by the Germans
in hand-grenade fighting, the War Of
fice announced to-day. Strong British
forces attacked Giandcourt. but the
assault broke down under the German
tire.
South of t In- Sotnme, the eastern
section of Saillisel section was taken
from the French and French trenches
on the northern edge of St. Plerre
Vaast wood were captured, together
with more than iimi prisoners and ti\e
machine guns.
FIIMNt II A M? Id ssi \ \s
A OW ( l.osi: TO MON tJiTIn
I IJv A.ssoi'iHtod l'rcs> ]
PAUlJ". November It;.? French and
lltiiisiati troops on the Macedonian
trout at?: now within four miles of
Monastii, it was announced officially.
The War Otlicc says the pursuit of the
defeated Bulgarians continue?. ,
I'tiring the night the Bulgarians
abandoned their principal positions
west 01" the Cerna Itlvcr. The French
and Serbians took too prisoners and
made progress toward Varashok, in
the t'erna Rend west of' Monastir.
South of Monastit tlte French and
Russians are reported to be making
substantial progress. It is in this re
gion to the north of Kenali that they
have advanced to within four mltos of
Monastir.
