EEKÜJ
ÜttflE
Vol. 59.
Jasper, Indiana. Fridy. NOvembee 17 , 1916,
No. 11.
PreliÜKÜon Papers
Fiiied mil Crime
F
ill I TCVT
; this-state." (Constitution of the State
.--. i&T of New York, article 3, section 3.)
1
I
with Liquor Cases 1
OASE
Prohibition agitators picture Kan- 1 Deny the Power of the Legislature
sas as the Angel State.
But Kansas papers ir. their n'ews
cdkr ns show that prohibition has
not .jt rsased crime nor its sordid
ness and has increased certain of
ftfxihRS i' that str.te.
Tlinr the Topcka Jour:. I reported
the HCt for the SeptexiiL term of
Crinr- ! Court:
"Ch li5G criminal ca. .docketed
for the . ;tember term 'ie Shaw
vnee Cour District Cour -. 1 J are f o?
viola-.: m : the prohit . i y liquor
law. Nine, ither cases a. for statu
tory offenses, and SB? assault,
hand i widens of the gpox business.
"Ext . ;-f " eniaHes the offi
cers c v.h court. eon 9t.chpa
to Make It a Crime to Trteat Disease
by Prayer." Chief Judge Bartlstt.
first interview with the investigator
"She told me that she had come to be
ertblieal diseases.
If It "was" the intention oT the Xegi
lature to relieve members of th
It appears from the statute that we Christian Science rnd ether churches
IGlirisllan Sslenca Prauios Fuliy
Vindicated.
ficurr i-.nx if tfili cost fhf . iiry 250
But is not lively tka jiorc than ')ook
n-t.ii-.f-h of thpm will ,-v. i muse l.he Cole, v. hi',
legal machinery to revohe. Äccord-
A LB ANY, N. Y. The official text of
he decision of the New York court of
appeals of Oct. 3, reversing the lower
court judgment i'gainst Willis V. Cole,
a ChristiMi Science practitioner, con
victed of "'pt ing medicine w't'iout
lawful autho, ,ution and registration,"
W for publication today.
rr and Henry D. Esta
fored as counsel for Mr.
interests of the state
iter by Kdward Swann,
beearr' av;
Samuel J ,
w ere l.j. .1
ing to Robert Garver, first assistant 'iI5in" au:.ra y u-.ouert iayior ol
county attorney, only about one founsel). 'Hie decision was written
mot cne in ton frets to the trial W J"üC i. ry A. Chase ot Catskill,
lin
stasre. The rest are dismissed. Gar- and w !lovs:
ver said. The county has a chance to . Th PpU 'H ti e State of New York,
tret the exnense of the trial bad: i Respondent v. Willis Vernon Cole,
cret tne expen
through assessing the costs against
the defendant in case of conviction
Appellant.
Appeal from a judgment of the ap-
But in the Anril term, but fsur con- '"Peliato division oi the supreme court
victed liquor dealers aid the costs. in the tirst judicial department, en
The rest elected to stay in jail and tered Zrty 10, 1W, afflrming a juds-
await a rrolc. meni of the lÄpw York county trial
i ranch) convicting the
niA tn smnr-nv fnv trial fnr infr,- defendant of the crime of "practicing
" -t . . . mornmn H'lt Iinitt loitrful mit hni'irmfSnn
wrvmon ninrrfA AWlr- S.-v. Ul(l 1 Cbi.-U atlOll. J
application
ork Cour ty
Medical Society, a warrant was on
tained against the defendant charg
ing him with practising medicine as
defined by section 1G0 of the Public
Health Law of the state of New York
without being duly licensed therefor
(People v. Cole. 25 N. Y. Crim. Rep
350.) On March 21, 1911, he was in
than one case.
The prevalence of crime In ' ,n
nessce is merely hinted at in th. r
tial work of the grand jury repor vd
in. the Chattanooga Nezvs as foilov:-
"Containing three murder indict
ments and twenty true bills for al
leged sellers of liquor, another report
rr'i ittuc u' gj.4tuu ju j, tiuvi uiclou uy t 01 uiiu 'jui y ui me cuuiicy
still another is expected Wednesday of New York. The indictment charges
afternoon. 'ihe expected report, liim with the crime of practicing: medi
which, in fact, has already been cine without lawful authorization and
passed on by tne jury and is now m registration and alleges that such im
the Attorney General's hands, will lawful practicing: of niedicino occurret
add three more murder charges and on the 19th day of January, 1911, and
practically winds up the worl; of the continually thereafter to and nclud
jury along this line. ing the 2Sth day of January, 19W. The
"In the early jury report there are , defendant was tried on such indict
nine indictments for burerlarv, four- Iment in the New York supreme court
teen for larceny and other true bills, criminal term, but Hie jury failed to
besides the whisky cases, making a agree and was discharged. Another
A J 1 J. Jl 11 IT-J J. rnl. f T f o 1 Tt'o a lirwl ill enmn Ammf n 1 rl
loiai oi nicy-iive lnuicuucnLb. me ; vmi Wl luuu auu
second report will embrace ten alleged resulted in a verdict of guilty and a
The defendant was never registered 1 treated for trouble with her eyes and naVfi mloted that a nerson Dractices frnm rhA nmi-isions of sections lftC
i i t i i.i -r c At a "
stomacu trouDie. i mrcrmcu ner uuu medicine when he "holds himself out and 161 of the Public Health Law to
Christian Science treatment was ag being able to diagnose, treat, oper- the extent of permitting thm within
prayer to God, we did not oelieve in ate or prescribe for any human dis- the rules. reml.vi--ns and tenets of ti
drugs, medical treatment, anything eas6f paillf jnjuryt deformitv, or physi- church io i.i- .u fr. office and-then-like
that and she asked me to give her cal condition, and s'ho shall either offer prayr r for the hea' of tl
treatment. Somcjthi: was wro,d offer or undertake, by any means or disease-; l ?ho-?p thai vi come t-
regard to the basis ofChr method, to diagnose, treat, operate, or-such church members iu treat men'
Science, and I told her su sf"r- prescribe for any human d? ase, pain,! and the defendant has in good fait
tnat nribiian öcienct; ab tm- . ninrv flp.fnrmitv or nhviral conrii- ntA in &"11(irflnnr( thfrpwfth. ho i
not jnrilty of the crime alleged in th
The language of the statute is very; indictment.
general, if bears .evidence in itself The Christian Science church is- in
excepted trom un
tlie medichl
of the state.
" " - injury
about God, and the truth about ir.mv ti(Jn
relationship to God ami the truth, cf T1
his birthright as a result t
thi? n
or licensed as a practitioner of medi
cine. He is a member of the Christian
Science church and a recognized prac
titioner within thp rules of such
church. For about seven years he
maintained an ofiice in the city of New
York. At the times mentioned in the
indictment his office was on the ninth
floor of a building at Fifth avenue and
Madison square. It consisted of two
rooms; one, a reception room contain
ing chairs, tables, a clock and lit
erature and an inner oflice contain
ing a desk, two chairs, and a tele
phone. On the door of his office were
he words: "Willis Vernon Cole, Chris
ian Scientist"
The evidence taken on the trial con-1 she realized her oneness with Gcd r.:i'
l ! ornf in linrmnnv with find that t" ir
,11 A IT I if , J. n NUt AL IUJIIJ II.b.A. v....
- j , , iwas tne treatment anü Avas wnar vf-
wno ior seven years nau ueej.
the Nqw York County Medical Society!""- Tr"; h" H " "mv
: cfi,r hands, or sat with my head paitiail
bowed for 15 minutes, in prayer."
He testified that at the secoud inter
uuudu, xuu - ... that the words wereteii5sen for tfco terms expressly
wnat we teacn ana i ioiu i tun on express plirpcse of prohibiting, except! prohibition contained in
1 toici,ner inar. on mis Dasi. c ; upon registration and authorization practice dcts of many
tms oasis aisease was no pan or ,11 .f ü practitjouer aB by the statute It is SO expressly
Dirtnngnt, or in narmony. ana miphi rmr.1of1 ornrv tv, an mnii Umhit nf MnitiP. Now
I 111 V f X V. VA. V V. . V Mi - VA A W 44 W I J V ivi. W W - J - - -
that could thereafter be used or
claimed to be used to relieve or cure
n em-,waMa? irena1uneni fia wfas Vd :r disease arid infirmity-any person
tion of,Would d0 She Sat therG f0r ab0llt 1 1 ! individually, or as a-representative of
minutes. I covered my fnce with in; 0
as an investigator, and the testimony
of the defendant.
The investigator testified that at
iview "She spoke to me about taking
on Jan. 19. 1911, she had waited n n6 tfi t h h
the reception room of his office with; fe f j , (1 j ,,
others unti her turn arrived and then t - t , , Uwl j b ,.,
wonf infr ho innar riffipp Sllf till- 1
worn glasses for many years
and taken them off.
I told her
went into the inner office. She fur
ther testified as follows:
aau i uui it ue . v,u.c. T trouble with my eyes and ha,-
And he said he was Mr. Cole, a r Chris- Qther dJseaaM and thf4t , had
tian Science healer ... I said fQ a number of physicians . nd
. . . that I read about him m the h t r had been hoaled b Cnnstlan
newspapers; that I called to see if he cjcience He further testified that on
could cure my eyes. I had been trou-, ü ä i it he told her Th t
bled with eye trouble. And he said,
'How long have you been wearing christian Science treatment was
glasses?' And I said, 'Ten years He prayer to God. I told her that Chris
said, 'You understand I do not give tian Science, realized that God was om
any medicine, I only give Christian nipotent, or all powerful; that He was
Science treatment' ... I said to omniscient, or all knowing; that He
him, 'What is Christian Science?' And was omnipresentf, or ever present; and
he said, 'I cure by prayer.' He said that because God was omnipotent and
that 'You must have faith in God; omniscient and omnipresent, and God
that God doesn't make us to have any was good, that it must follow that evil,
disease; that we must be all love and disease, inharmony, sin and discord
all kindness and that God would cure were no part of Iiis Being and had no
the infidel as well as the confirmed be-, real existence, and I told her' that man.
liever in His Divine Power.' And I, was the image and likeness of GocJ,
said what would be the lee And he and was entitled to dominion, and that
said ?2 for the first treatment and his birthright was dominion, and that
all subseqnent treatment: $1. . . . he had the right o affirm and seciire
The defendant then said, 'I will give immunity from discord of whatever
you a treatment.' So Mr. Cole had name and nature, and that disease Was
his chair facing mine, and he closed like a shadow that flees before; the
liic ovac on1 r-nicorl hie linnrlc; 11 n tn lirrlif '
his face and remained in perfect
silence for 15 or 20 minutes. . . .
He said, 'That will do for today's
treatments .... You come- back on
Friday any time" 1 On Friday, thel like and loving and good, and just
next day, she returned to his office.) and free from error. He says he then
Her testimony as to what occurred; praved again, and that prayer is a
He says he told her that this result
would follow from spiritual under
standing He says he spoke to her
...i'tfV.. i i;r 1 hl.!t
uout XTceping ner ue pure auu uiuibi;
linimr siiftrs" 1 judgment was accordingly entered
Here's how prohibition succeeds in Inst the defendant on the 30th day
improving morals in Washington: lrch, 1912 He appealed from
tt o j. n . t, such judgment to the appellate divi-
"Hoquiam, Sept. 6. A report bysion where it was afflrmed bv a di.
Police Judge Martin Smith filed yes- ;vided court (Peeplo y. CoIc 163 App
terday with i Clerk Lundin, shows that Div 292J Anppeal was then takeln
the bulk of business xn police court from such judgmeilt of affirmance to
during August was the result of tllis colll
over-indulgence in liquor, practicing medicine when unaccom-
"Elcven defendants arraigned on panied by acts that are in themselves
the charge of drunkenness, two for evil, vicious and criminal, is not a
having an illegal ((imntity of liquor in crime at common law. Practicing
their poicsion ard ihrce for fighting, medicinu is not malum in so. It is im-
indulgence in liquor Jigurea in tue portanl in the intoivrt ??f p-.l lie hoalth
case 01 tne oeimrerents.
is as follows:
"I went in and he said to me, 'Why,
you are looking very well And 1
said, 'I feel about the same And
after that, why, he spoke about God
is good and we must have love and
faith in God. And then he says, why,
he will give me a treatment So that
Mr. Cole placed his chair facing mine
again, closed his eyes and put hia
hands up to his face and we remained
in perfect silence there for about 15
or 20 minutes."
She further testified that before the
treatment she said to him, "Mr. Cole,
I have a nain in my back. . . . 1
then said that I had a porous plaster
on my back at that time; and 1 said
synonym for treatment
He further testified that at the first
interview "I told her I could not cure
her, that I had no more power to cure
her than anyone else, that God was
the only power, and the only healer.
. . . I told her that she could cure
herself just as much as I could if
she would study and purify her life
and her thoughts and cleanse from her
coiiFciousness fear a.nd inharmony and
false thoughts. I told her that by
studying and gaining an understand
ing that she could apply the principle
and law of Christian Science as well
as anvone else, as well as I could.
.to him what did he think about the God."
and that
I told her that 1 was nothing
she was nothing, it was
pain I had in my back. Ho said it
was some kind of disease, but he could
not tell what kind it was; he said, '1
can cure it.' . . . He said, 'You
must now take off that porous plaster
bocause Christian Science cannot cure
with plasters on
His testimony as to what was saic
at the third interview is as fellows:
"We discussed Chrirtia- Science and
I picked up 'Scieuce and Health will
Key to the Sorirlrcs' cy IIrs. Eddy
which is recoeur'.cd in nt-tian
He said! Science as tr-e standard tpxi!"i.ik:
it
i .a w . . . a . i .
Tn addition. m.hii. ii-oifnvi Um.! nnfcrn Ii!.? tüat i must taue ou my gmsses iS the original unnuan r e iei
one was arraigned for exceeding the ing himself out as a phvsician or wel1 as remove the plaster from my. book whiili we accept with the Hob
snood limit and two for disorderly : lion lr nf rliso-so. shon'fl hnv th1 back- - Tlmt 1 should have, scriptures of which it ir, c::planalor:.
X - . - - - ----- - - - ...... v - - J til 1 i i ? . 11 i i . . .
as the basis oL our groat iviigr.;
sp
VUUUULL
4..11 i-U:M ..U,.- Ar,(. "r;. Qiitii1nc rldcifrmvrl tr ni'ntnnt iMiMini UlOC lUC fal
ginia: .health and general welfare by regula- nJ"?!t K00tD m
ttt-xt . -rtr -rr r UVT fllO l)PJlClir3 Of midlCMIA. llilVH hePTl 'itllOUt tliem.
"oiarKSDurg, v. va., nope. u. .: t wanted to
United States Deputy Alarsiials lrom - ,V Y, . T. r Science I
jfnmppi ana luarunsouv : nave ocen ' . A l,U4UHUUl t eid
Tili ciiiin iiirFi i . ri i i
Knew Vau rlircr un nlinrrnxf inrf loo,onrc
here. Thir.-en have been arrested in t AIvhon a P-rson is charged with nrac
the last t enty-four hours, and the , Uclu medicine without a license it is
marsh.I.i are still at work." .necessary to oxammo the acts of the
OT . . Txr t c . 01 ' legislature to ascertain whether the
MV'cinsburg; V. Va., cpt ,actg complained of are in violation of
Sidney Rymcr, former prosecuting at- the staUlte ftW
torney of Lewis county, W. Va , and . The Puhlic Hcnlth Ijaw (Cons. Laws,
candidate in 1906 for the West Vir- Ch 45) of this 5tatP provides, and did
crinia Senate, today pleaded guilty in !nnflvif1rt f the t,-mo tin,,,! n
the Federal Court here to the charge lhe in(liclmonlS( that "Xo person shall
of bootlegging in Clarksburg, W.Va., ;practico medicine unless reistered
and was sentenced to four months in au(1 leRalIy authorized prior to Sept. 1,
jail and 1UU tine. mif or ,miess licensed by the regents
"Eleven men entered pleas of guilty and registered under article S of chap
today before Judge Dayton to charges ter 6G1 of the laws of 1893 and acts
of bootlegging, and were given terms amendatory thereto, or unless licensed
in jail and lines of $100 each." by the regents and registered as re-
"Huntington, W. Va., Sept. 3. lired by this article. . . ' (Public
George Church, marshal of Bar- -Health Law. Sec. 161.) "Thcpractice
boursville, ten miles from here, was of medicine is defined as follows: A
shot and killed today by a gang of aerson practices medicine within the
bootleggers he was trying to arrest, i meaning of this article, except as here
Church was formerly a police lieu- 'inafter stated, who holds himself out
tenant here' , ls being able to diagnose, treat, op-
'rate or prescribe for any human dis
Publication authorized by the ,.ase, pain, injury, deformity or phys-
Indiana Breaers Association. Ca condition, and who shall either
Iter or undertake, by any means or
'method, to diagnose, treat, operate or
, rescribe for any human disease, pain,
I FARN SHORTHAND injury, deformity or physical condi-
It will pay you well. It la an aseurod rauis of n 7
good employment. It ia more than that. It is sui , ai.,n n0vidq "Thk r-
im-aluablc pnsonal aecomplishmctHn time and 1 f'EnKP ai.-o p.oiues. tins ar-
labor saver thruout your life. tide h.ill U )t construed to aiTect
i lie of the religious
BENN PITMAN PHONOGRAPHY
' The Phonographic Institute,
aKCUniATT. OHIO,
Benn Pitman, Founder.
Jrxorne B. Hos-ard, Frcsidrnu
Sore Nipples ami Cjm$mi Umfc
Arc quicXly ctireii by Hppii u. " r,, '
tfalve. Try u; it. is a üucccss. fzue aj ci nU,
rii. .1 . . .1 i n ,T : . 4.1. ni 1
education, tnining. skill pnd knwl-i müIlJ lllu H,m unuuisiauuiug, u eti 1
must nave courage; iiiul i s.iiuuiu ie-
asses. ... I said 1
glasses as I cannot go
. . . He said if I
be cured by Christian
must remove the glasses.
'How can you cure
locomotor ataxia?' He said, 'Just by
prayer and having faith in God He
said, 'When patients are given up by
physicians they always turn to Chris
tian Science for help " He told her
to come back on Monday, Jan. 23. She
did so. She said to him, " I removed
the plaster that was on my back as
you told me to And he said, 'I want
you also to remove the glasses.
says, I have to keep the glasses on
. . . I said, . . . When I eat
bread and potato I would distress my
stomach very much He said, 'Leave
your stomach alone; you go home and
eat anything you want to
She returned again on Jan. 27 and
brought her little girl with her. The
little girl wore glasses. She further
testified, "I said to Mr. Cole that the
child has ben wearign glasses, and
she also has a cold. I said, 'Can you
cure her by Christian Science?' and he
said. 'Absolutely 1 said, 'yell, will
you cure her?' And he replied, 'Abso
lutely So I said that the child had
a pair of roller skates, and wearing
glasses, why, if she should fall she
would injur? herself. And he said,
'You take the glasses off and let the
child run and romp like other chil
dren'; that mothers should not put
such fear in children. . . ' He gave
tNm treatment similar to the one he
had given her before.
The defendant during the interviews
stated to the witness that she had as
much power to heal disease as he had,
and could do so as well if she wouli
study the Bible and rely upon its
promises and offer the prayer of un
derstanding and faith. She under
stood him when he asserted that he
could euro disease as saying that he
could bring about the cure by means
of prayer to Almighty God. He said
to her that all diseases are alike to a
Christian Scientist.
Tilg, defendant testified that h! the
a school, religious body or otheior
anization. U j
It does not appear thatn.ne defend
ant attempted to diagnose the dfeeases
which the investigator stated to him
that she had; he not only in sub
stance denied th-n she had any disease,
but asserted tr-at they rested in1 her
imagination or wer mere evidence of
lack of true relation ta her God.
There was no m'vry on his part into
the symptoms W ch tie investigator
claiv-.od tli -f as indicating the!
diseases. vas no laynig on of
hands, mac5'";aii.n. massage or out
ward cerem-r.ial. His direction tq her
to remove her glasses and take off a
Dhrons plf'ter which she asserted she
iad up 11 u'' back we"e, as also as--ertf
t fcr ' 'n. si ly to bring .about
compi ce per upon tne
power r.nd J! Ungues? of God to heal
her disease Such directions were
not, he asserts, intended as a pre-
pcription or as advice.ffYl was a test
of her faith. Tie, however, testified
that prayer wat a synonym for treat
ment. He habitually termed his in
terposition by prayer a treatment, and
such it would j-eom to have been in
the ordinary m.n, ot- the word. He
had a place v.v.cf int vrv-.Titiun by
prayer to G .1 " Jih s .1. it h rough
him at a v rvht- . ;l or.ipensa
lion r -c 1. He as
sert., u.o-'c i rpojiiton with
Hod by prayer to ta.- away disease
or what he alleges to be wrong- rela
tionships between persons having dis
eases and iPir God. Hiß interposition
with Qaü S5 Wl2ind Uy-h-im, roquir-
excepted in the
Hampshire,
Massachusetts, Connecticut, North
Cr.-olina, North and South Dakota.
Kentucky. Tennessee and Wisconsin.
We think the exception in the stat
ute in this state is broad enough t;
permit offering prayer for the healin?
of disease in accordance with the rec
ognized tenets of the Christian Science
church. It may be said that if tin
exception is so construed, it willylead
to numberless persons assuming to
cure diseases in the name of a church
for the purpose of thereby maintain
,ing a business and securing a liveli
hood. Th religious tenets uf a church
I must be practiced in good faith to
come within the exception. Who 1
auch practice is a fraud or preten
it is not excepted from the gen er. ' .
prohibition. When wrong is practio I
in the name of religion it is not pr -tected
by constitution or statute. (Re
nolds v. U. S., 98 U. S. 145; Davis v.
Be; son, IS3 U. S. 333; Mormon Church
v. U. S., 13G U S. 1.) Many of tha
decisions referred to by counsel may
be explained by the fact that the per
sons therein severally considered were
frauds and shams. (See people v.
Spinella, 150 App. Div. 923; affd., 206
N. Y. 709.)
A person should not be allowed to
assume to practice the tenets of th
Christian Science or any church as a
shield to cover a business undertak-
When a person claims to h
ed Di-; v
bp' v c
so:;
ea... . .
ed. J... .
practit: ..i
to handle V
to him .i '.
obtaining a
n tl.Tt the -.inharmony
. , hz ahd the per-
. . .iev '1 of dis
ra glu be adjust
. 'u id ndant as a
.' aeem tq have been
..ic' :n of those that came
.u.n ills wiili a view to
Diwne cure. Such inter
position iu.!er sich circumstances
was, in thv 'angua-,e of the defendant
himself a treatment."
AVe are of the opinion that the de
fendant did "treat" the investigator by
"any (some) means or method, as
the word is used in the general pro
hibition contained in the statute.
The r.oncral and comprehensive defi
nition of a person who practices medi
cine has an expröss exception. The
descriptive words are preceded by the
phrase "except as hereinafter stated."
The execution couced dly refers to ch
ing.
practicing the relifcus tenets of a
church, particularly where corapen".
tion is taken therefor and the -practice
is apart from a rhurch edifice or U10
sanctity of the hDme of the applicant,
the question whether uch person is
within the exception should be leftto
a jury as a question of fact. In this
case the court charged the jury;,.,IL'
you find from the evidence in this case
that this defendant did engage in the
practice of medicine as alleged in the
indictnmet, within the definition which
I have given to you, it is no defense
that he did what he did from any sense
of duty, or that he did these acts in
the practice of the religious tenets of
the Christian Science church." We are
of the opinion that the court was in
error in so charging the jury. The
exception was intended by the Legisla
ture to exclude from the prohibition
the practice of the religious tenets of
the Christian Science and other
cnurches. It was necopsary, as Ave
have seeii. that the practice be of the
tenets of a recognized church and tlie
court instead of charging the jury as
.stated, should have left to the jury the
questi:'i whc.htr the defendant was in
'ood t. ith prarti the tenets of
church v.i Li the meaning of
t.'iith. I asked her to procure a copy
of this hook." He testiited that hi
read to her from that book, "To be
'present with the Lord' is to havo
not mere emotional ecstasy or faith
but the actual demonstration nnrl u-.
derstanding of Life as n r '"1 U
Christian Science. To be. .
Lord' is to bo in obedience :v lllllol.izGd so to do. or whether the
of God, to be absolutely governed by exception should be continued therein,
Divine Love, by Spirit, not by mat- is a question for the Legislature and
ter. ! not for the courts. The nurpose of
the words tn section l: 6fArJle Public' the statutory exu ption.
Health Law as foiled: "Thfä article The judgment ah -uld be reversed
shall not be construed to' affect . . .land a new trial ordered.
the practice of Hie reliaimTs-.tenets of Cuddeback and Cardozo, JJ., concur:
any church." The exception -includes Willard Bartlett, Ch. .1., concurs in the
everv person in the practice of the re-! following memorandum:
ligious tenets of any church and it is; "I concur in Judge Chase's coustruc-
not in anv wav in conflict with the, tion of the statute. But I would kO
federal or state constitution. The farther. I deny the power of the Lc
language quoted from said section 173' islature to make it a crime to treU
is not in nny seusc an ajlirmative disease by prayer'
license. It is, we repeat, an exception. Collin, J.. not voting; Hogan J., ab
to the jreneral prohibition. Whether sent: Scabury, X, not sitting.
tim nrncticp of the relieioua tenets! Judgment reversed, etc.
of any church should have been ex
cepted from the general prohibition
again?t the practice of med 'nine un
less the practitioner is registered and
A to ocurngw.
tenets of anv t'hnr h
(Pub-
Is taur.ht in reliable choola everywhere. Lot ua ÜC Health .:iw. ? 1 . . J
racoinmend one to you. Or we will advise you Qtir cot tltution provides: "The free
cboutsclf-instructioaorleisoaabvmaiL Write to mre in,? enjuvnv-lt Of religiOUS
una
crinr'Vii
ever 1
man : . -
t
and worsVi; without dis
n or preference, nhall for
.'lowed in this state to all
. . but the liberty of
conscU nee ! ereby secured shall not be
SO cor.1 'rued as to excuse acts of li
centiousness, or justify practices in-
cßlisisti t .w Ltli th ufiace .qx safety of
nnnnmn nnnonlnnc fnr n ctincrln mo. I
ment that Life and intelligence are
purely spiritual neither n nor of
matter and the body will then u.fer
no conscious complaints. If suffering
from a belief in sickness, you will find
yourself suddenly well. Sorrow is
turned into joy when the body is con
trolled by spiritual Life, Truth and
Love.- . . .
'Entirely separate from the belief
and dream of material living, is the
Life Divine, revealing spiritual under
standing and the consciousness of
man's dominion over the whole earth.
This understanding casts out error
and heals the sick, and with it you
can s; ak as one having authority "
He testified that he was practicing
Christian Science as laid down by the
church. Ho denied that he was prac
ticing mouicire.
It was conceded on the trial that;
Christian Science is a religion based
upon the S'-rii.tures and founded by
Mary Baker Kddy in 1S(6 and that
the "church has a' out a million mem
bers. The aliened naming ot moral,
mental and physic d:H?ses by pray
er was prarticed L Christian Scien
tists in New York for more than 20
years before the time mentioned in
the indictment. It t conceded
that in order to ohtala 1 rv iuon the
list of practitioner cf Christian
Science church prcn' m it ho fur
nished satisfneto-y .. tve church of
v...- - -- -- -
applicant, br.t t f
experience of t. ar
element in h
church reio vl '.'v
of the l'. J"' . '
1 c tions of tlv
' due lion an "
"'nt 13 not an
ri tims. Tl
' ? ncer!
faith in the . -v; - r:i t Erucy oi '.raj
the general statute is to protect citi-j
zens and others of the state from being!
treated in their physical ailments and.
diseases by persons who have not ade-i
quato or proper training, education or
qualifications to treat them.
The tenets of a church are the be
liefs, doctrines and ercrls of the
church. The exception relates to the
tenets of the etfurch as an orgax;zd
body as distinguished from an indi
vidua!. It does not relate to or ex
cept persons pracUging in accordance
with individual befij.
It appears from the record that it
is a tenet qf tjivj Christi mi Scienc
church that prayer to Oed wi!' ro.-ul
in cot v'Jete c :v? of par:cul?,r dis
eases in a prc cri'. d, irvdlvid -' 1 r.ns"
?Iealing wou'-l rom t'. l.-c ,t -the
promir.fU wcncof iho ch ;rch n;-
its member?, hit tli . one d' Uncti
belief arotr d which thc church frgai.
zation is fo.wd'd and usuaaiued.
It is claimed th:it ft. hurch
tends its influence p;.d y.rf '.ds .."v,
edge of its power hy jwai f? ! tl.-r oi
stration on th mvt oi its siiiir
practitioners in -rcniiiA . c.-r
throw of m.,rni, xnr.il tnd ,V 1
disease. It dis-Mrrs auy r i r--upon
skill, edrica. on or V b '' '1
view of the tends -of thv. C'-K-irt:.:.
Science church the exctitv-n u th
prohibition in the statute Irvrcr-n-'-than
the provision of the cn-!i i-oi
of this state which we hnv qnrted
and which pennits the free Q'er
and enjovment of religious prefer 1 on
and worship without discrimination
or preference. '
The exception in the statute is not ,w
confined to worSlfip orDUtyf'but In-
cJudesthe practice fil reujasu lejie.
Trainer's Wifo (to her husband)
Coward! Come out of there and meet
He face to face, if you have & drop o
tiood in your veins.
For Him.
.3.nd liow'a bijiioeis Mr. CrapT
pOh. things ar;i Hnc a litti
