Arizona State Fair and Exposition, Novembqr 13, 14, 15, 16j 17 and 18, 1916
THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAS
18 PAGES
Auvaan 3J.va, ARIZONA, FRIDAY MOIiNING, NOVEMBER 17, 1916
18 PAGES
VOL. XXVII., NO. 182
rjJITTT'
a A h JL i
17 A TO
111
PtiOENi
ES SUP All
STOCK PARADE AND PEACE
CELEBRATION FEATURES Of
TODAY'S AUGMENTED CARD
Closing of down-town stores yesjterday resulted in another gr;at crowd
at the rtate fa'r. While no figures are available for the purpose of compari
son, it is thought that another dally attendance record has been broken.
Fraternal day offered another good program of horse racing, both in the
harness and the thoroughbred classes. Cowboy sports and free acts filled
in. with consistent class.
Of special interest was the announcement yesterday that the auto polo
games, which' have proven such intensely interesting novelties, would be held
over for Sunday, and together with a number of free acts, constitute a pro
gram for that afternoon. The Sunday program is designed to permit thou
sands who have not been able to get away from business during the week, to
see a part of the best features the fair has offered.
Yesterday afternoon, following the Arizona derby onto the mile track, the
automobiles did half a dozen practice laps, preparing for the 100-mile speed
contest tomorrow afternoon. Owing to unavoidable delays, incident to getting
tha generously large program off. the cart were unable to remain on the track
very long. The quick falling darkness and the fact that the mile, oval was ex
tremely dusty, made it impossible for the drivers to put on any special bursts
of speed, but the crowd of 5,000 who remained, were pleased with the exhibi
tion of speed.
For the Saturday race the track will be well oiled. Last year it was proven
that merely watering the track was not satisfactory. Too little water left the
dust alive and ready to fly with the passage of the racers: too much caused
aggravating delays in the program. The city motor sprinkler will be used to
spray 3.000 gallons of special road oil on the track under high pressure, and
the result will be not only a dust less, but a very fast track.
In addition to the already strong proaram, which includes the big live
stock parade, the Mabel Normand Peace celebration will be put on at the
fair grounds at 3 o'clock this afternoon. !
Live Stock Parade Today
What promises to be the greatest
live stock parade in the history of
.Arizona State Fairs is billed for to
day at one o'clock sharp. This is
the announeemant of no less a per
sonage than Commissioner H. It.
Wood, backed up by AV. F. Van
Kirk, superintendent of the 1 ivc
Wih-k department; Judge Hugo Van.
I clt, who fur several years has
' judged the prize stock at Arizona
fairs. The only regret Judee Van
T tit has is that he cannot be hera
to participate in the whole affair
from beginning to end.
More than four hundred head of
the finest cattle in the southwest,
tie pride of the famous valleys of
Arizona, will be marched to the in
spiring strains of band music past the
great Brand stand at the fair ground'
this afternoon. Superintendent Van
Kirk will bo the man-hal of the par- j
ade and It Is not at all unlikely j
that two bands will be needed to
properly set off the finalities of the
great?st live stock attraction of the
year. .
Kariy this mornirg the clten.lar.ts
v.ill begin netting the sto-k in readi
ness for the parade. They wili be
curried to the last possibility of
pmoothnesg and shineyness, and sleek
ness until their fat sides will fairly
gMsten with the glints of the af;e'.--noon
sun. Fat stock sho'vs in Ari
zona are historical In live stock af
fairs, nnd this year's wi',1 be th?
epoch making tarude if signs do not
fail.
The live stick industry Is one of
tho state's chief items of wealth- It
Is one of the greatest industries in
the state besides, and in Maricopa
county esoecially it is high in point
of valuation because of the wonder
ful possibilities in the dairying lire
tlUJt in many casos have oee-n dem
onstrated to be not possibilities at
all but actualities. The value of this
industry to the valley can be g'lagfd
vhen the prrade is seen in all ita
magnificence. There are but few
slates in the I'nion, and none with
the. agricultural acreage of Arizona,
that has anything like th splendid
showing of ttie A'izona State Fair in
the matter of live sto.k.
EaRily the stock parade will be ope
of the chief events of the week.
Hundreds of thousands of oVllirs
worth of four footed animals will
be marched or led bv lie granl
etanri during the time alloted for tha
parade, and the thousands of visit
ors to the great grounds will hav.;
seen something that will long remain
w ith them as a memory hf the wealth
of Arizona. No to hav.? seen the
stock parade this yeir will be to
have missed a big event of the wet-k.
fill BRIGADES
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BROW.VSVILI.K, Tex., Nov. is.
Movement of approximately 10,00'j
troops, with motor trucks, combat wag
ons and mule pack trains out from
Brownsville on the first of a twelve
day maneuver, was effected expediti
ously, according to Biigudier Oenerai
James Parker, chief umpire in the
"white" and "brown" army campaign.
The "browns" tonight are yamping at
Olmito, eight miles noitti Prowns
ville, and early tomorrow ae txpected
to begin an advance on the advanced
brigade of the ' white" at Kan Benito.
The "brown" army, during the Man
Prominent Club
Suddenly at
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WITCLAS, Nov. iS.Mrs. Annie M.
Dean, wife of Judge Fletcher M. Doan,
formerly a jitstice of the Arizona su
premo court, died suddenly late today,
aged 61! years. She was prominent
in women's club affair in the south
west. Her husband and three sons
survive. I.'er brother, Mujor (ieneral
Arthur Mm ray, I'. K. A., retired, who
IRMUOMENHST
even if the big events were to be
counted' on the f.'.geis of one hand.
That's how high it stands.
TEUTDllS SEE1
id be backing
UP ALB LI
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
In the .V;.ci'doniaii theater, the cn
ter.t troops continu? tj press the'Teli-"
tonic Allies in the Cerna river region,
and, according; to the Serbian war
office, have seriously broken their
ine both east and west of the Cerna
southeast of Monastir. capturing four
additional villages east or the river
ind on the west side driving them
back from several additional points
toward Monastir. Berlin admits that
the Orna region tee liulgerian-Ger-man
forces have left old and occupied
newly prepcrid positions. To the east
the British have taken the tow n ot
Karaska, on the east side of Lakc
Tahinos. The Ajstro-Cerman armies in the
Tvansj lvanian tiieater in the Ait and
Jin valleys have forced a fjrther
retirement of the Rumanians and al
so have made progress in the Rother
t!n..rm and Szurduk p;ss regions.
" fcile Herl n asverts that the re
have been only minor engagement.;
in Dobrud a, J'ctrorad reports that
the Russians have made fiirthe.- prog
ress southward and that the Teu
tonic allies continue to retreat, burn
ing villages behind them. Ienia! is
made by Berlin of the assertions thai
the Rumanians have ranture-d the
town cf Bonasclo en the Danube.
Bombardments are taking place
along the entire eastern front in Rus
sia and Calicut, according lo the
Petrogr.-d war office. Berlin re
ports a repulse of a Russian attach
southeast of Riga.
The situation east of Gor'zla 1
made somewhat obscure by the vari
ant claims of the Vienna and Horn"
war offfices, both ot which record
success- for their respective armies.
Vienna asserts that the Austrlans
ha-e captured another Italian trench
in this dist'ict, together, with pixty
prisoners and two machine guns, while
homo records the reoccupation of
tr-nches evacuated by tne Italians
Tuesday.
STAGE I
C
euvers, will represent a foreign power
intervening in Mexico, having "invad
ed" the United States last night at
point Isabel. The "white" army will op
pose the "invasion."
The two forces entered most exten
sive maneuvers held since the guards
men were ordered to the border. In all
20,000 guardsmen, from nine statee and
several legular army organizations are
involved.
It- tok the "Brown" troops four hours
' steady marching to cle-ar Browns
ville. They will camo eieht miles north
of here tonight, renewing their advance
on tne. White brigade Friday morn
ing.
Woman Dies
' - M
Douglas Home
is now in Nogales, is expected to ar
rive here tc morrow.
.Mrs. Doan was born in Bowling
dreeu, .mo., ner father. Samuel F
Murray, and grandfather, Judge Carty
Wells, having ijat on the circuit bench
m .oi"soun ioi many years. A sisioi
Mis. R. R. Sanderson, now resides. If
Bowling Green, while Herbert U
Murray eif Palo Alto. Cat., is he-
brother.
Interment will be made In Tucson
today's fair PROGRAMftLtminh m
Friday, Novem ber 17,1916
9:00 A. M. Opening of the great gates f(t the fair.
10:00 A. M. Butterfat contest continues.
12:00 M. Opening of the Grand Stand at Fair Grounds.
1:00 P. M. Grand Livestock parade. E. F. Van Kirk, Grand Marshal.
2:00 P. M. Harness Race Program begins
The Free-for-AII Pace, open, $1X00.
The Free-for-AII Trot, open $1,000.
The 2:27 Trot, $1,00Q.
2:00 P. M. Running Race Program begins
One-half mile Consolation, open: horses not winning first
or second at the races this week, $1D.
Six and one-half furloncjs Consolation, open; Horses not i
winning since June 1st, $200.
Five and one-half furlongs Consolation, open: horses not'
winninn first, tucnnd ar thir4 at thj rare th! wL I
i Three or four additional events will be added; distances
' end purses to suit horses and persons on the ground.
3:00 P. M. Peace Ceremony conducted by Miss Mabel ' Normand, the mo
tion picture star.
Finals in Steer Roping Contest
DARE DEVIL FLOREY THE GREAT HAREM MYSTERY
The Bicycle Diver, in Plunge for N ACE AND ZARADO
Life Gyir-nastie Experts
FLYING DAVID THE PABST KIDS
In Daring Parachute Drops Boxers and Wrestlers; "Paper-
DIVING DIANA Weight" 'Champions ,
In Fancy and Hazardous Aquatic HARRY CRAWFOfiTJ
Events ' In His Passenger-Carrying Bi-Phne
HANKINSON'S AUTO POLO
"The Most Exciting Game in the World." Two Exhibitions: Great Britain
vs. America
7:00' P. M. Grand Wter Carnival at Carnival grounds.
7:0C P. M. Performances in ' all down town theaters.
m ill
If I FIEIBS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire!
CHICAGO. Nov. 16. The life of th
I'nited states navf is tit stake tn the
figt t to retain government control of
the California petroleum reserves, As
sistant Secretary Roosevelt of Ih.;
navy j'ssortcd in a papr rend tonight
before tho annua meeting here of
th American Mining Congress, i
'It may he ft dowrf -js tfcltiil.f
conclusion," raid the rpper, "th:fl ihc
navy cannot revert to coal burning
vessels without norrrous loss of -efficiency
and. furthermore, that the
navy will rot so revert."
The article is the nnty de-artment's
opening attack in the renewal of ih;
fight in congress, over the 1 b-ian
amendment tn the general oil land
bill designed to pro'c-t the c'a'inj ef
California operators. X ivy offk'i-us
have insisted that the policy of build.
iv.g oil burning ships could not be
carried cut if the amendment carried
nd Secretary Daniels appealed di
rect!, to President Wilson when i
nq seeme'd imminent dur.ng ti e If st
session of congiess.
Mr. Roosevelt's paper de:lard tat
o.l fuel for the navy n,e: nt in-
crea.-.ed speed and cruising rai-ius.
(Continued on Page Two)
HEWED
GUARD REGIMENTS GO
HOME; OFFICIALS SAY
DON'T UNDERSTAND IT
Republican A. P. Leased Wire)
SAX ANTONIO, Nov. 16. The five
infantry regiments ordered home from
the border toc'nyJ)y the war depirt-
ment were selected by (Ieneral
Kunston from the troops on patrol
dutv at the request of the departmen",
to elesignate that number of organi
zations for release.
Acting under thpse instrurtifins, he
recc minended the rturn of the First
South Carolina at Kl Paso: Seventh
N'ew York at McAllen: Third In
diana at Llano Grande; Third Wis-
onsin at San Antonio, and Third
Minnesota at Llano Crande.
Staff officers tonight professed ig
norance, of the reason lor the return
movement it this tim. They were
at a loss to know whether the orde,
is the beginning of a general return
movement of state troops engaged in
border patrol -work. It was admitted
in militarv circles, that there :'
N
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHIN&TON. Nov. 16. DiWns-
glon of the railroad situation and par
ticularly the Adamson eight-hour law
from the standpoint of the country's
business in this will be heard here to
morrow. Several hundred representa
tives of commercial organizations are
expected and many prominent speak
ers are on the program.
The meeting was called for the pur
pose of having business interests af
filiated with the chamber of commerce
express their views Just before the
Joint commission, appointed to inves
tigate railroad questiwns, meets here
next week. In addition to the Adam
son law, ciuestlons of strike preven
tion and wage fixing for common car
rier employes by the interstate com
morce commission will be taken up.
Department of justice attorneys to
day continued working on details of
the government defense to railroad
suits, attacking the constitutionality of
the Adamson art. It is probable that
an effort will be made to take one of
the suits to the supreme court as
ADAMSO
Republicans Still
Seem to be in the
Lead for Congress
Republican A. P. Leased Wire'
WASUlNtJTOX. Nov. Hi. No
change in thfi apparent political align
ment of the Sixty-fifth congress has
occurred this far as a result of un
completed canvasses of the votes in
close districts.
Demociatic leaders who had hoped
to gain one member in the third
Louisiana distriit were disappointed
when announcement was made of
complete official returns showinr?
that Whit P. Martin, progressive, had
teen elected over Wadu Man in by
'9 ote s.
In the tenth North Caro'.lim dis
Jrict. where democrmt" leider are
T i-ad'otmst I'wt Cir,v t f the return
In Buncombe cotnty will show i.'p
resentative J. J. Britt. Hop., to have
1 e. n defeated by Zcbulon Weaver,
pern., the result ftill Is in diiuht and
court proceeding have been Instituted
by the republican candidate, which
will delay th? canvass until n"t
week.
Mopes of the di-mocrats for a gun
rT o;e vote in Michigan and pos
sibly to in Pennsylvania have not
he-en abandoned. Representative
Penkes of the second Michigan dis
trict, who apnavently was defeated
on the unofficial returns, telegr ip";e;i
todny that an error had been found
:n Jwkson county, which, if corrected,
voult! give him the flection by t
m ijoritv of four votes t: er Muk R
Bacon. Ren
in the thirtieth Pennsylvania dis-
fContinued on Page Two)
no state troops to take the place
of those relieved unless regiments
that already have seen border service
are sent lack. All troops lemainln,;
in state mobilization camps were ex
hausted under the last call when 2.",
PO'l guardsmen were sent to relieve
some of the organizations that had
been on the border for a ieriod of
months.
The time of departure of the five
regiments ordered home will depend
on the rapidity with which railroad
stock is assembled for the movement.
"In selecting the five regiments along
Ih'- border. General Funston gave
consideration to the length of service
of troops from various states ant
nlso was partly governed by knowl
edge of states that had benefitted in
earlier returns movements. Another
factor was the desire to keer intact
the divisions or taetlcaf units into
which state troops have been organ
ised nt various border points.
LAW TO BE
iiulckly as possible, so tlmt i final
decision that will be; binding uiwin all
lower federal tribunals may be had
near January 1, when the law, unless
enjoined, becomes operative. So far as
the cfepartment Ih Inrormed the first
suits set for hearing are those of the
Santa Fe und the I'nion Pacific rail
roads at Kansas City, November 23.
Cnless some reason develops for a re
quest for postponement, they will be
the first heard and any effort to ex
pedite a supreme court hearing will be
based upon the lower court decisions
in them.
The joint congressional committee
announced today that Its first hearing
day, Monday, will be given over to
state railway commissioners. These
commissioners have been in session
here for several days and sent mluit
has been strong in appearing hefoie the
Joint committee to take away their
powers over interstate carriers! They
oppose any increase in the federal com
merce commission. After the railway
commissioners will come railway pres
idents, bankers, economists and rep
resentatives of such labor and indus
trial organizations as wish to be heard.
T DOLED
n
HOMEWARD BOUND
NEW "LONDON, Conn.. Nov. 17. !
The Deutschland, the German
submarine, which arrived here on !
I November 1, slipped out of the har- i
hor st an early hour today bojnd '
' for Bremen. She left her pocket at i
I the state-pier at 1:30 o'clock and I
I was towed -down the harbor by I
l two tug. !
j Captain F. Hinsch and other of
i flcials of the Easte n Forwarding i
I companv were on one of tne tug3. i
i A launch filled with nespaer- 1
i men followed the subr-jrtikle down '
' the Thames river to ctia rr.uth of !
the harbor. '
UlilOITS"
TO QUIT POSTS
Republican .A. P.- Leased Wlrel
WASHINGTON. Nov. 16. In accor
dance with custom in tne diplomatic
scrvi'e. all American ambassadors and
minis.terr abroad are expected to re
sign as n sequence to President Wil
son's reelection :'.nd succession to a
new term of office.
Manv of them were appointed ori
ginally without special knowledge on
their part of the peculiar customs of
tlicdr posts. Some hud no intention
of rerminirg abroad more than one
term of fo:ir years in other cases
ome who expected to make even
shorter stays abroad have, from force
of circumstances, especially exigencies
of the present war. continued at their
IMists oily to mc-n the wishes of the
slate uepa i fluent.
For -i:;n policies w i'l engross a larn
part of President Wilsons attention
n the immediate future to an extent
never contemplated when he first
assumed the office. it is re
tarded as essential that in the de
velopment of the lirger plans of the
administration in foreign intercourse,
the president snould have specially
selected ambassadors and ministers to
meet the demands in each case.
Fortunatclv the practice which has
become general in the American dip
lomatic service since President Roose
velt req lestcd the resignations of all
the ambassadors and ministers, will
afford President W ilson the nece-ssary
opportunity to carry out plans he
hasi projected, involving a very con
sldnble reorganization of the dip
lomatic service as far as the heads
ire concerned.
That a considerable nrmlier of the
Incumbents will- be asked lo remain In
office is a certtainty but some do not
n-ish to remain and some have proven
iiiipli:al to th heavy requirements of
their stations.
It is expected that the general ten
der of resignations in the near fu
ture will !elitve President Wilson
from the necessity of idopting the
course taken by President Roosevelt
and chKing directly for the resigna
t ions.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
PAWS. Nov. 16. Secretary of State
I&nsing's instructions to josenh C.
Grew, the American charge d'affaires
at P.crlin, Vent on bch-ilf of the Bel
gian government, to discuss with Dr.
' v on Bcthmai'n-Hollwej, th" German
Imperial chancellor, the . eiuest'on of
DISCUSSED
Many acceptances of invitations to tes
tify have been received rom prominent
men.
At the meeting of the chamber of
commerce tomorrow a plan for pre
venting the Interruption of public utili
ties oueraticMi by strikers will lie pre
sented by Henry R. Towne of New
York. The plan was said tonight to
have the indorsement of the Merchants'
association of New York, and provides
in substance for the enforcement of
Ihe contractural relation between pub
lic utilities and employes.
I Dr. Charles R. Van Hise of the Uni
versity of Wisconsin. Victor S. Clarke
of the Carnegie Institution of Wash
I iiiVton, Charles Nag of St. Ixiuis, for-
mer secretary of commerce and labor,
I Marry A. Wheeler of ChicSugo, and John
J 11. Fahey of Boston, a former president
ol ine cnauioer, aiso win mase speecnes
on railroad problems.
Officials of the organization pre
dicted tonight that the question of
concurrent Jurisdiction over railroads
by state commissions and the inter
slate commerce commission will be
taken up and plans suggested for a
single controlling commission.
!PKESiDET'S ACTION REGARDING
- BELGIANS APPROVED BY FRENCH
np(fo rrrnivrQ nr
ON TO SOLVE TH
MEXICAN
CIWH SPEND ENTIRE
DAfTilTOCOIiEl
fiGREEMENT FAH FHDM PRESENT
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
ATLANTIC C1TV, X. J.. Nov. 1C
All efforts of the Americans on the
MexioHn-Amei ic an joint commission
to persuade Luis Cabrera, chairman
of the Mexican representation, to
abandon his opposition to the plan
of border conno! approved in general
bv his colleagues, failed today. The
other members of the commission had
not lost hope toniyht that the confer
ence wojld he continued. 1
.Mr ':u'!tiu met with the commis
sion today for the first time since
Tuesdaf. Tin- fact that he had bitter
ly opposed the agreement sanctioned
Tuesday by Iiniacio P.onillas and Al
berto J. IViii, tho other .Mexican rep
resentatives, and that while he was
out of the city vesterday, Mr. Bonil
las and Mr. Pani again offered their
suport to the plan, resulted in pe
culiar interest being attached to
his reappearance in the commission
room today. It was believed possible
he might yild lo the importunities
of his colleagues and bring the dis
cussion to an amicable close.
P.efore they left their room tonight
ifler a long session, the commission
ers agreed that they would say
nothing regarding the day's talk. Mr.
CaVcra met the newspajwr men and
told them he had agreed "not to say
one word" lo ihe press. A few min
utes later Secretary Lane, chairman
of the Americans, supported Mr. Cab
rera with a similar statement.
it became known, however, that vir
tually the entire day was spent in ar
gument calculated to oonvlnce Mr.
Ca:r.--ra of the advisability of en
dorsing the plan and to make clear
to him the danger in which con
tinued opposition might place his
government Mr Cabrera was ready
witn counter suggestions, whichit
is said, are regarded by the Ameri
can as impossible for tnem to ac
cept. All was ready for the formal prep
aration of an agreement. There has
lieen forwarded from Washington a
supply of the special paper on which
treaties are written and even the
"
CHINESE GET
YANKEE GOLD I
I WASHINGTON. Nov. IS. A j
loan of $.","OO.IIOO gold has been I
made hv the Continental and !
I Commercial National lUmk of Chi- i
I on go to ihe Chinese government !
' through its minister here. Dr. I
! V. X. Wellington Koo. The Chin- j
I ee legation announced elav that I
1 the monev had already been
I pledged to the credit of the !
I Chinese government. j
I . I
.
(the deportation by Germany of Bel
gians iroin inen- n irive land, is re
garded hoie as an action of great
tnrvirtance. The newspapers discuss
appreciatively. The Temps, alluding
to the incident, says President Wilton
Is resolutely determined to hold to
his principles, undeterred by Mexican
complications, adding that he "in
tervenes with fear of contingencies."
The Parts Midi sees in the instruc
tions iff Secretary Lansing the be
ginning of a revolt of neutral na
tions against w hat it calls 'the barbar
ous nnd illegal measures of the- cen
tral powers."
'-Mr. Wilson." saws the Midi, "con
scious that he is the head of thc
largest neutral nation. whK-h is re
nowned ir. the world for its wide
humanUunan feelings
has taken an
Mexican Troops are Worried;
Think Juarez to be Attacked
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
KL PASO, Nov. 16. In a letter
written to his brother, a saloon keep
er in Kl Paso, Colonel M-irian
Tamez, who revolted with a small
following of Carraiiisa soldiers from
the Juarez, garrison and joined Villa,
is said to have announced his in
tention of returning and attacking
Juarez soon. He said he would be
accompanied by Manuel Ochoa, a
general under Villa at one time. Rod
rigo ejuevedo and Silvestre Quevedo.
The b:fndit commands of these men
S1TUAT10
TO INCREASE OUR
MERCHANT MARINE.
NEW YORK. Nov. 10. The
American International c orporation
in conjunction with the Interna
tional Mercantile Marine company,
the Pacific Mail Steamship com
pany and W. R. Grace and com
pany, for many years prominent in
I South American trade, have pur-
! cnased the properties of the .New
I York Shipbuilding company of
i Camden. X. J. The requisition of j
i this company is in furthentnee of
the aims of the American banking j
and shipping interests to extend
the sphere of American commercial
interests in foreign countries.
C-
green, white and red ribbons, the
colors of .Mexico, were purchased to
day for binding the sheets, but there
appeared little prospect tonight of
their early use.
-o
Ship Builders See 4
Daniels Regarding
Cruisers Plans
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Nov. 16. Private
ship builders and navy officials were
in conference again today without
reaching agreements regarding con
tracts for construction of uj vessels
of the 1917 navy building program.
With the exception of the four scout
cruisers, the question of price is nut
involved, it is understood, the discus
sions hav ing to do with modifica
tions of contract stipulations pro
posed by the bidders.
Indications tonight we're that the
battleships included in the program
would be built, two by the Newport
News Ship Building and Dry Dock
company and two by the New York
Ship Building company, their Kids
having been found most acceptable by
the beard which reviewed them.
Whether the steam-electric drive
system preferred bv the navy will he
installed in the battleships had not
leen finally settled tonight. This
aspect' of the bids offered the con
ferees today. The builders have sub
mitted proposals to construct the
hulls and other machinery of the
ships, leaving it to the government
to purchase the" electrical drive equip
ment similar to that being provided
for the California. Tennessee, and
New Mexico. Navy officials Want
the builders to assume fuir responsi
bility for the ships and their ma
chinery, making their arrangements
with the electrical equipment com
panies which are also represented at
the conferences.
The discussions may continue sev
eral days longer. So far only the
battleship and destroyer bids have
been considered, thj question of the
scout cruiser and the submarines
having been passed for the present.
The board is understood to h:iv
recommended the awarding of con
tracts for eight destrojers to the For "
River Ship Building company of
Quincy, Mass.. six to the I'nion Iron
Works of San Francisco, and two
to Wm. Cramp and Sons of Phila
delphia. There are many points in
the modifications proposed still to
ne worked out, '.lovvever, and awards
may he delayed even if the board's
recommendations are followed.
Initiative which may possibly nwaken
all the sleeping consciences of other
peoples still indifferent."
I.a Liherte nd other new-sna tiers
eemmeri! in the same vein.
are the ones which have been rob
bing passenger train between Chi
huahua city ami Juarez and raid
ing ranches south of Juarez.
There is said to be a feeling of
unrest among the troops of the
Juarez garrison and the officers fear
a number of the officers and sol
diers of the garrison will revolt if
the bandits attack Juarez. A trciou
train carrying 400 infantry vent
south from Juarez today to' pursue
the bandits who are operating in
northern Chihuahua, it Was announced
ill Juarez todny.
