The Ecno bat a
reading circulation
of over 4.000 per
sons who trade in
Leavenworth. Ad
vertise and increase
your business.
Vol. 13. No. 46
CHIKAMIN CREEK STONE MAY BE USED
EOR THE PROPOSED GREAT NITRATE PLANT
At Priest Repids 400,000 H. P.—lar
gest Electric Plant in U. S. — Will
Benefit Leavenworth
The election is out of the way and
it is timely and proper to turn our thots
to the things that will benefit our town,
things that mean growth and prosperity
lor Leavenworth. Not only for Leav
enworth, but all eastern Washington.
The building of a great electric i
power plant at Priest Rapids will un-j
questionably bring into use the great
body of limestone on Cbikamin creek
to make nitrate for the government
and fertilizer for the impoverished lands
of the United States. Leavenworth is
the gateway to the Chikamin creek
marble bed. The building of the
power plant at Priest Rapids requires
between two and three million dollars'
worth of cement. Cement can be
made right here at a saving of a large
sum of money.
If you follow us we will tell you
why the Priest Rapids plant will be
built, and why it will be built in the
next few years.
Priest Rapids is located about eighty
miles south of Wenatchee, in the Col
umbia river, near where the Chicago,
Milwaukee & St. Paul railroad crosses
the Columbia. The rapids comprise a
series of falls covering a distance of
■bout nine miles, with a total fall in
the river of fifty feet. A thoro exami
nation and calculation of the power
possibilities has already been made by
competent hydraulic engineers. It is
proposed to build a dam at the head of
the rapids fifty feet high, of steel and
concrete, across the Columbia river,
from which will lead twenty or more
penstocks, constructed of steel and
concrete, fifteen feet in diameter and
nine miles long, from the dam to the
foot of the rapids, where the greatest
power plant in the United States will
be built. Each penstock will deliver
water power to • twenty H. P. turbine
power wheel. The dam will raise the
water fifty feet, and the fifty foot fall in
the rapids will give 100 foot pressure
at the power house for all the water in
the Columbia river. This has been
estimated by competent hydraulic en
gineers in both government and private
service, to make possible the develop
ment of upwards of 400,000 horse
power «t Priest Rapids, or 20,000 more
horse power than is now developed at
Niagara Falls, on both the American
and Canadian side of the river.
There is scarcely any doubt that the
power possibilities at Priest Rapids ex
ceeds any other in the United States,
and would rank with the greatest in the
world. Its enormous value was recog
nized about eight years ago by Mr.
Robert E. Strahorn, railroad builder
and capitalist of Boston, Mass., and
Spokane. It was he who a few years
ago built the North Coast road from
Spokane, thru the Yakima valley and
Natches pass, south of Mt. Rainier, to
Portland. He afterwards sold the road
to the Great Northern railroad com
pany. Mr. Strshorn about that time
bought the land on both sides of the
river, giving him complete control of
Priest Rapids for nine miles. It is
said to have cost him a pot of money
at that time, but is now considered
worth several pott of money. Five
years ago he sold his holdings to New
York and Portland. Ore., capitalists.
Mr. Howard, president of the Portland
Street Railway Co., and the Portland
Light and Power Co., is one of the
Portland men interested in the project.
Mr. Henry J. Pierce, of New York, is
at the heati of an eastern syndicate
which is also interested in the Priest
Rapids land. These men are ready
and willing to invest a vast sum jf
money in the development of the
Priest Ripid power enterprise, the rea
son for which will appear as we go on
with the itory ol the project. Also
why the undertaking cannot proceed
until tome comprehensive federal
waier power law is enacted. For more
Zlbe Xeavenwortb fefc :>
than two years congress has had under
consideration a law defining and limit
ing the rights of power companies do
ing an interstate business.
One bill originated in the senate
and another in the house of representa
tive. They are along different lines.
One is intended to materially restrict
the activities of power development,
while the other, it is claimed, is in
tended to stimulate the building of
electric power plants. Both bills
passed congress in August last and
were sent to conference to reconcile
the differences and make a bill that
could meet the approval of both houses,
but the eight hour bill coming up in
the last hours, and both houses anxious
to adjourn so that the members could
get into the political game, the water
power bills were never reported back
to the respective houses from the con
ference committee. The matter is
expected to come up again amone the
first things when congress again meets
December 4th. That some bill satis
factory to all parties will pass at an
early date is not doubted.
The water power people are only
waiting until some definite action is
taken so they can know just what the
rights of capital will be under the
federal law. The government has un
der consideration the building of a
phnt at Priest Rapids for the purpose
of making nitrates and fertilizer under
an act of congress appropriating 820.
--000,000 for such a purpose. There is
vow under consideration a proposition
to build the plant on condition that the
government take 150,0v0 H. P., or
three-eighths of the power developed",
that being sufficient for its purpose,
and ihe balance to be used by private
parties. It is quite probable that the
government will join the present own
ers of the ajacent lands and the Mil
waukee railroad company, and build
the Priest Rapids plant. Once con
gress acts on the water power bill it is
believed by those in close touch with
all parties interested in the develop
ment of the plant, that the building of
the great power plant will shortly take
shape. The location ol the rapids is
all the government could desire for
strategic purposes, being located east
of the Cascades, far enough from the
Pacific coast to make it practically im
pregnable from an invading foreign
army. It would be the best fortified
and naturally protected munitions plant
in the United States, and ideal in every
respect. When not employed in mak
ing war munitions it would be free to
make nitrates of lime for the use of
the farmers in fertilizing their land.
Nitrates of lime is the highest prized
and most productive of good results.
Because of a water rate from the point
of origin the fertilizer could be de
livered at Atlantic ports at very low
cost and would not only make the
United States independent of foreign
fertilizer but actually make it cheaper
than the foreign article.
In the making of fertilizer lime stone
is extensively used and here is where
the Chikamin lime stone deposit
comes into the scheme. The Chick
amin limestone deposit is not only one
of the largest in the couDtry, but ac
cording to an analysis made by Prof."
Roberts, of the Washington Univenity,
it it the purest in lime, being 9854
per cent pure. The deposit is prac
tically inexhaustible. The mountain
is several miles wide and can be
traced for over twenty miles. It has
already been passed upon as to quality
and extent. Its use in making fer
tilizer depends wholly upon the build
ing of the power plant at Priest Rapids.
It would seem that the power would be
brought here and the limestone con
verted at this place. But this has not
been fully determined. It may prove
impracticable, tho heavy power voltige
is now transferred from Great Falls,
Mont., to Miles City, a distance of
180 miles.
Th« Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul
The Higher Up the Valley You Go the Bigger and Better the Apples Grow
Leavenworth, Wash., Friday, November 17, 1916
! railroad has already electrified its
Rockey Mountain division and the
service has proved even more satis
factory than anticipated. The company
is looking about for power to operate
the division between the Idaho line and
the coast. Other than Priest Rapids
there is no great power possibility any
where near their lime so it may be
taken for granted they will co-operate
with the government in the development
of Priest Rapids. The cost of con
struction of this huge plant is estimated
to be eleven million dollars. Between
two and three million dollars worth of
cement will be used in constructing
the dam, power house and the concrete
conduits. Because of its proximity to
the Rapids it is only reasonable to be
lieve that the cement used in the
building of the plant will make it prof
itable to build a cement mak
ing plant here as soon as the water bill
is enacted into law. Watch the fate of
this bill. It will be passed at the com
ing session of congress and things will
begin to happen very shortly alter.
All the material necessary to making
cement are in close proximity. It has
been estimated that $400,000 above
the cost of the plant could be saved in
the item of freight difference alone,
over the cost of delivering cement from
the Pacific coast or the nearest eastern
plant. The Leavenworth cement
would be shipt to rock Island, a dis
tance of thirty miles and from there by
barge down the Colombia river to Priest
Rapids, at an aproximate cost of 13 per
ton.
Central Washington is just beginning
to realize what a valuable asset it has in
its water power. It is in every way
superior to other power and it it X)
much cheaper. The installation of the
plant to develop the electricity it the
only cost. After that the water flows
thru the pipes onto the turbine wheel
and develops the power.
Electric power is as sure to be the
moving force of the future as anything
in this world. It is the best power
and the cheapest power in this world.
The only cost is the installation of the
plant. Once the plant is built it is
good for a thonsand years, and then
some, and practically without any
future cost. It requires neither wood
or coal, or men to handle it. Com
paratively few men can take care of a
hundred thousand H. P. plant. To
develop the same amount of power by
any other method, besides the cost of
the plant, there is a constant cost of
fuel and five or ten times the man cost
to operate it. The dormant energy in
the streams of the state of Washington
will be developed very rapidly in thr
next few years. We are only beginning
to realize the enormous latent wealth
in our streams.
The great Northern will next spring
begin the building of a hundred
thousand H. P. electric plant on the
Chelan river. There is the possibility
of a two hundred thousand H. P.
electric plant at Rock Island, on the
Columbia river, near Wenatchee. The
building of the Priest Rapids plant will
be the beginning of such water power
development in this state as will as
tonish the most ardeDt optimist. Such
great possibilities as Priest Rapids
possesses can neither be overlooked or
doubted by those of us who profess to
be openeyed and openminded, and with
the returning tide of prosperity Leaven
worth will go some and grow some.
There is latent power in the Wenatchee
river, the White river, the Chewawa
river, the Icicle and the Entiat rivers.
There is over one hundred thousand
H. P. in the streams of Chelan county
that needs only to be harnessed to make
every hamlet thrive with industry. The
next ten years will work wonders and
Leavenworth is not the least of the
towns to be benefitted.
ferryman Leads Adams 60 in Senatorial
Contest
According to the last report m the
Wenatchee World of Tuesday J. H.
Ferryman has a majority of 60 votei
over Mr. J. B. Adams. Mr. Adams'
majority in Kittitas county wai 416
and Mr Ferryman's majority in Chelan
count; was 476.
NEWS ITEMS FROM
PACIFIC NORTHWEST
Seattle's Mayor is With the I. W. W's —
Ship Buried in Sand Ten Years
Ago Being Dug Out
Seattle citizens are pretty well dis
gutted with the latest outburst of their
mayor, H. C. Gill, who has declared
himself in symphathy with the I. W.
W's who sought to invade the city of
Everett, and killed two Everett citizens
in a fight which ensued when the
people of Everett refnsed to let the I.
W. W. land from the boat which car
ried them from Seattle.
Gill not only declared he felt no
responsibility for letting an armed mob
start out from Seattle to shoot up a
neighboring city, but he went farther,
called the Everett citizens cowards,
and when the returning I. W. W.s
were Jailed here, the mayor sent them
blankets and his chief of police bought
tobacco for them. The mayor refused
to admit any blame for letting a lot of
irresponsibles go around carrying re
volvers, and the I. W. W. continue to
hold meetings here without interruption.
Everett citizens are indignant at the
lack of co-operation by Seattle police
authorities for the suppression of the
gang. The prosecuting attorney of
this county, however, has given every
possible assistance towards the pros
ecution of those known to have par
ticipated in the murder of the Everett
citizens, and it is likely that at least
twenty members of the I. W. W. will
stand trial on murder charges.
A story of a recovery of "buried
treasure" has come to light here as a
result of the big boom in shipping on
the Pacific and the high value of steam
ships. The steel steamship Sesostris,
lost in a fog and run aground ten years
ago on a sandy coast of Guatemala, has
been dug out by a Seattle syndicate,
and will soon be floated and in operation
as good as ever. The big freighter is
worth more today than the day she
went aground, although she was aban
doned for ten years, almost buried in
the sands of a deserted shore. The
sand helped to preserve the vessel and
she is said to be in fine shape. Es
timates of the value of the Sesostris
range all the way up to a million dollars.
Formerly she plied between this coast
and German ports, in the Kosmos line
service. The syndicate which is float
ing the abandoned liner is said to have
the backing of D. E. Skinner, of Seattle,
head of the Skinner-Eddy shipbuilding
corporation, which is one of the big
new concerns engaged in steel ship
building at this port.
One feature of the election from a
local standpoint was the overwhelming
defeat of Milo A. Root, former Justice
of the state supreme court, in his race
for superior court judge. The old
scandal involving Root's retirement from
the Supreme Court wa3 hashed over
again in the campaign here, and he
spent considerable sums in advertising,
but the voters refused to allow him to
"come back."
Local railroad officials and railroad
men generally will keep close tabs on
the case filed in the federal courts at
Kansas City last week by the Santa Fe
Railroad to test the Adamson eight-hour
law. There is no information to be had
of local officials as to whether or not
any of the northern railroads will make
separate contests of the statue, or I
whether the Kansas City case will be a
test for all the roads in the west.
Shippers in this state, who were perhaps
glad enough to tee a railroad strike
averted by any means possible, will be
much interested in the outcome of the
Adamson bill and the other railroad
legislation recommended by the Pres
ident last September, lince the outcome
is very likely to involve an increase in
freight rates.
Indian weather prophets in the {
Northwest are quoted as predicting
another cold winter for the usually'
temperate section like Puget Sound,
but many people think the Siwash dope
is being used chiefly as advance agent
material for the wood and coal dealers.
Government reports show lew cases of
one hard winter following immediately
upon another, and there is no scientific
reason to expect a repetition ol the
snow and cold weather of last winter on
the coast. The railroads have made
many provisions for a repetition of the
tie-up of last February, but are sincerely
hoping that nothing of the sort will
occur. Nevertheless a good many old
settlers will take the tip from the red
men and lay in plenty of supplies for a
cold spell.
SPECIAL TRAIN fIFTY BOX
CARS LOADED WITH APPLES
Left Wenatchee Tuesday Night—Man
and Stove in Every Car-Refrigerator
Car Shortage
To overcome the refrigerator car
shortage the Great Northern railroad
offered the apple growers of Wenatchee
the use of ordinary box cars and a spe
cial train to rush the fruit to the market.
The offer was accepted, says the
World, and Tuesday evenine the train
pulled out with a stove and man to fire
it in every car. The sight of smoke
booming from fifty freight cars, all in
motion, was an unusual experience.
Business Booming in Seattle
Mr. S. R. Davidson, Seattle, a large
stockholder in the Leavenworth Mer
cantile Co. arrived here this morning
on one of his occasional visits to Lea
venworth. He says Seattle business
is booming along in great shape. Next
year is expected to be a record breaker.
Mr. Davidson expects to leave for
home tonight.
Mr. and Mrs. Jack Love of Tye are
the proud paients of a new boy, born
at the Leavenworth hospital Wednes
day.
Married in Wenatchee
Mr. Geo. Hilton and Miss Violet
Stafford, accompanied by Mr. Rich
Chambers and Miss Movie Duncan
went to Wenatchee Wednesday and
were married by Judge McCoy,. The
bride is a daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Joe Stafford, old residents of Leaven
worth. Mr. Stafford is one of the old
time engineers oa the G. N. Miss
Stafford is a charmiDg young lady with
a hojt of friends. Mr. Hilton is em
ployed by the Leavenworth Lumber
Company.
Oil Burning Engine Catches fire
Blowing the whistles at the railroad
round house is one way of arousing
the population to the existence of fire.
This morning at five o'clock the
whistles blew furiously and some sleepy
denizens got up and looked for fire.
If they failed to locate the fire it is due
to the fact that this time one of the
whistlers caught fire. One of the oil
burners caught fire from oil that had
leaked. No damage of consequence
was done and the fire was promptly
extinguished.
Prevent Tire Outbreak Now
Tomorrow may be too late. Take
the "stitch in time" today. This is
the first cold weather of the season.
Stoves, flues, chimneys, etc. that
have been out of use for a year may
have gotten out of fix. You are firing
lup to keep the house war.n. Have
you stopped to think of an outbreak of
fire? You may during the summer
have moved something near the stove
pipe, hung a garment where it will
take fire. When you moved it there
j last summer there was no danger.
Look the house over for fire traps.
Do this to save life as well as property.
Fred Lee and family leave this week
for Spokane where Mr. Lee has se
cured a position in the G. N. freight
office. He lived here a long time and
leaves a lot of friends. Mr. W. F.
! Ramsdel of the forestry office and his
i mother will occupy the house vacated
•by Mr. Lee.
Our Jot Printing
department is com
plete. If you want
High Class printing
at reasonable prices,
come to this office.
$1.50 Per Year
fOXEOLA-OTHERWISE
RED JHOUNTIAN OLE
Is Back With Another Silver fox—The
fourth—Plenty More—Gone Is
Their Exdusiveness
Back again with another silvei Fox.
He arrived here Wednesday evening
with Mr. J. E. Praul. a mining pros
pector who has lived in the Red Moun
tain country for the past ten years and
makes occasional trips to the haunts of
men for supplies.
But it is Ole and his silver fox that
interests us. Tbis is the fourth silver
fox he has bought in, or one every year
for the past four years. Now, silver fox,
until Ole came on the scene, were sup
posed to be scarce. When as many as
a half dozen were taken in North
America in a year it was considered a
pretty good year foi silver fox catching.
They were so scarce that connoiseurs
millionairs and kings were about the
only people that could afford to wear
silver fox furs. All silver fox taken in
the Russian dominion are ipso facto
the property of the crown, and are
worth from one to two thousand dollars
each. There is danger that Ole will
upset silver fox values. In other words
make them so common that common
people can afford to wear silver fox furs.
Ole says he can get a silver fox when
ever he wants one, and appears to want
one every time he returns to civilization
for supplies. The last three he dis
posed of for the beggarly sum of $150.
$100 and $75 each. He has knocked
the exclusiveness out of silver fox fur
as completely as Mr. Ford knocked
exclusiveness out of automobiles when
they cost six and eight thousand dollars
and only kings and millionaires could
afford to ride in them. Yes sir, Ole
has another silver fox, and its a beauty.
That it is a silrer fox we have no
doubt, because Ole says it is, and
futher says there are plenty more where
this one came from. He appears tn
have found the gold mine he has been
hunting for the past twenty years, in
the shape of a flock, a farm, or whatever
you chose to call it, of silver foxes.
Low Temperature Last Sunday
For some two months we enjoyed ex
ceptionally delightful weather. Not too
cold, but just cold enough to make one
step briskly when out in the air. L»st
Saturday night Old Winter waked up
and gave us an earnest of what he had
in store. Between Saturday afternoon
and Sunday morning the thermometer
dropped over twenty degrees, and since
then has hovered around eight to fif
teen above zero. At Cashmere and We
natchee it was a few degrees colder and
over in Douglass county lower than zero
temperature was recorded. Every day,
tho, the sun shone as bright and cheer
ful as one ever saw it shine on a May
morning. Ice formed several inches
on still water, However, as it was un
accompanied by either wind or snow, it
was ideal winter weather.
Cold Damaged Apple and Veg
etables
Advice to the effect that the cold
weather which prevailed from Saturday
night to Wednesday did considerable
damage to fruit and vegetables that was
not properly housed or protected.
Some apples still remained on tne trees
when the cold weather set in. Thou
sands of boxes remained in the orchards
and were stacked up on the outsic*
near warehouses, because of lack i f
room inside. Potatoes and other vege
tables had not all been housed.
New Concrete Garage in Spring
The building of an up-to-date gar
age on the corner of Ninth and Com
roercial streets, adjoining the light and
telephone building, earl; next spring,
ii under consideration. The comple
tion of the Scenic highway will add to
the tourist travel by way of Leaven
worth and another garage will become
a necessity.
