ll
The Telegraph service of The
Daily Gate City and Constitu­
tion-Democrat
our
Sir
is receivedover
own leased-wire.
NO. 119.
t-L
atschiand, Starting Home,
Collided With Escort and
Sent Her to the
Bottom.
MEN DROWNED
Captain Hinsch of the Eastern
onvarding company, which owns the
titschland, was pboard the Scott,
p., and waa thrown into the water,
ailors from the Deutschland leaped
ftverboard and dragged him on the
nbmersible. He was nearly dead
Tom shock and cold.
The tug Cassie's meii helped in the
ae of other members of the
(Continued on page 2.)
Ik,
Jig Chicago Financial Con
cern Makes Loan of $5,000,
000 to Chinese.
ih-
1ationaltoday$5,000,000
United Press Leased Wire Service.]
CHICAGO, Nov. 17.—Chicago step
td out as a new factor in Inter
finance with the announce-
Oade to the republic of China by
'afco bankers. This is the first large
international loan to be made Without
he aid of New York financiers. Tha
Continental and Commercial National
'ank here made the loan. The loan is
or three years, at six per cent. It Is
direct obligation against the Chinese
fcpublic and Is secured by revenues
thrived from that country's wine and
lobacco taxes. Arthur Reynolds and
[ohn J. Abbott of the Continental and
«T»~r-ifti National Imnlc and V. K.
PI
m*'
to
lidtfreas Freighter Puts Back
Port Thie Morning After
Crashing Into the
§v 8cott,-
Jjnlted Press Leased Wire Service.]
INBW LONDON, Conn., NOT. 17.—
attempted dash to sea by the Ger
|an merchant submarine Deutsch
Ind ended early today in a collision
ptween the super-submersible and
escorting tug in which Captain
uerney and four members of the
lg's crew were drowned.
jThe Deutschland, bound for Bre
men, put back to port immediately
liter the collision and by 5 o'clock
His morning was aagin warped into
ler pier. She waa once more shield
by the liner Wlllehad, her "moth
•r ship," and the big steel net was
|wung into place to further guard
ler.
Work wag immediately begun by a
nail army of workmen to learn the
tent of the submersible's damages
a result of her second collision
arlng the present trip. She smash
into a pier when she made her
kart from Bremen and was held up
days for repairs.
The collision this morning occurred
the treacherous stretch of water
Rtween Fishers and Little Gull
klands, known as The Race. The
rater there* is 250 feet deep. A
krong current, sucked landward and
jeaward through the narrow stretch
the mouth of Long Island sound,
akes It one of the danger points
that vicinity. The tug T. A."Scott,
attempted to'cross the Deutsch
tnd's bows while the Scott and the
ng Cassle, acting as rear guard for
he submarine, were steaming along
ft twelve knots an hour.
There was a splitting crash and a
Teat hole was torn in the Scott'
|r.'s side. She broke in two and
nk within three minutes. The crew
ad no chanoe to /reach the life
ats. Captain Guerney in the wheel
fous e, is believed to have 'been
ashed to death.
The four sailors who went down
Kith Guerney were all below deck,
apped like rats. They are Engineer
Villiam A. Caton Edward Stone,
eman Eugene Duzant, deck hand,
nd Clarence Davison, cook.
VOiL.
123.<p></p>MTSCKLAND
RAILROAD MEN
EXPECT NO STRIKE
If Adamson Eight Hour Law
Pails, They Figure Presi
dent Wilson Will Come
to the Rescue.
SUBSTITUTE TO HZELP
Possibility of Transportation Tleup on
New Year's Day. is Scouted
By Brotherhood
Head*
RUnlted Press Leased Wire Service]
CLEVELAND, Ohio, Nov. 17.—Con
fident that should the Adamson eight
hour law fall, President Wilson will
provide another measure which will
insure trainmen of an eight hour day,
heads of the various brotherhoods
here today scouted the possibility of a
general strike in January.
Warren S. Stone, head of the
Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers
said that if the Adamson eight hour
law was knocked out, trainmen looked
to President Wilson for an effective
substitute.
Possibilities that the position tak
en last summer would not hold for a
strike in JanuAry loomed here today
and brotherhoods said this question
would have to be decided at a meeting
held in Washington on Monday. It Is
said a further conference between
railway heads and railmen coming
from Washington is desired by broth
erhood men. This, it Is believed, in
dicates the willingness of the broth
erhbod to further consideration of the
eight hoar law and an amendment
which might make It jaorm. satisfac
tory to all. W. S. Carter, president of
the brotherhood of firemen and John
H. Sines, vice president of the broth
erhood of trainmen, both doubt the
possibility of a strike.
A railway strike is a remote possi
bility, said Sines. W. G. Lee, presl
dent of the railway trainmen, alone
refused to comment on the situation.
New Haven Tiles Suit.
BOSTON, Mass.', Nov. 17.—Coifasel
for the New York, New Haven and
Hartford railway today filed a bill
the United States district ctourt at
tacking the constitutionality of the
Adamson eight hour law. The bill
called for a preliminary injunction
restraining the government from put
ting it into effect. 'Judge Morton will
hear the road's petition December 11.
Garretson on Vacation.
CEDAR RAPIDS, Iowa. Nov. 17.—
A. B. Garretson, president of the Or
der of Railway Conductors, expects to
leave on an extended ocean voyage
to South America about December 15
in search of better health. He declin
ed today to comment upon the rail
ways' attack on the Adamson law ex
cept to reiterate his belief that the
measure is constitutional.
L. E. Shappard. vice president in
charge of the order, Btated the rail
ways are resorting to the courts in
order to cause delay.
Adamson's Opinion.
WASHINGTON, Nov. 17.—Con-_
gress has the undoubted right under
the constitution to prescribe both
hours of labor and amount of wages,
not only for railway employee, but for
others in interstate commerce. Repre
sentative Adamson, vice chairman
of the joint congressional committee
on interstate commerce told the
(Continued from page 1.1
ITHOUT ASKING ADVICE
OF NEW YORK BANKERS
city to the Chinese legation.
Secretary of State Lansing read
contract and announced the depart
ment of state gratified to see the re
public of China receive financial as
sistance from citizens of the United
Stfttfi8
The loan is considered Important
by bankers here in that it was con
sumated without advioe from Japm
or European capitals, which have hith
erto been consulted and usually par-
sent that a loan has been ticipated In Chines® lloM^ With tlUs »^^I^^prtathm'of these
hade to the Penublic of China br Chi
transaction the UnM*d
recognized as a great financial power I ^lrd
mansions win uc -h -j
loan. The territory Into which the
raa ffSi"S2
who also a$ted la advisory oa^-itrilwtln* the bond# In tbe «•*. .-VT"
*-4
1
»•. •'*.
States, the one hundred and forty-first.
Enormous Amounts of Meat,
Grain and Vegetables Have
Been Exported From
United States.
HIGH PRICE, THE EXCUSE
Exports of Grain Has Doubled so Far
This Year Over 1814, While
Meats 8how Great
r'v
Gain.
[United Press Leased Wire Service.]
WASHINGTON Nov. 17.—With an
increase of ISO percent lft exports
of meats since the outbreak of the
war and with a constantly greater
proportion of her grain crops leaving
the country, America is assuming an
even greater share of the burden of
feeding stricken Europe.
This, in the wake of short crops,
is given by government officials as
one of the foremost reasons for high
prices on food. stuffs.
During the first eight months of
this year—ending with September 1
—the United States has shipped
abroad more than 1200,000,000 worth
St^es jJESirts for the Tear of nearly a
of a biIUon
'^he^lTOn6 i8°Sto Coffered to public United Stales has co^bnted a
i-evi Mayer. Attorney for tne can* r-uij«ut-ujux* y" ,r~— toaitliini tm imam I) 'I (Cmtlmed oa oma»
-evl Mayer, Attorney tor the tank: Philadelphia will have ^charge^of 1 lOcstinM oa page I) ^. 'J (OontlKK
whA MWIM luinr rtina fyihttting tkfl iHHMl I® I ..
dollars. During the
nf tinihnltad M- MUM .eight months period of 1914
Trade opportunities of unlhnlted the outbreak of the
"rtons will be opened op by the
ttMM totalled
ATIKT
bat $8,-
expo
AITAM
WAM in ita «IIA
anil Coiuttitution-Bemoccat
Thanksgiving Proclamfi ion
By President Wilson
November 30th., Set as Date For American People to
Give Thanks jto Almighty God
'i DUnited Press Leased Wire Service]
'WASHINGTON, Nov. 17.—Calling upon America to "contribute out of our abundant
means" to the relief of those living in belligerent nations "upon whom the curse and terror
o| war hw so pitilessly fallen," President Wilson today issued his Thanksgiving proclama
tion.
He set November 30 as the date for Thanksgiving. His appeal for :.ts observance fol
lows:
PRESIDENT'S PROCLAMATION.
"It ha* long been tha custom of our people to turn in the fruitful autumn of the year in
praise and thanksgiving to Almighty God for His many blessings and mercies to us as a na
tion. The year that elapsed since we last observed our day of thanksgiving has been
fin)i in blessings to us as a people, but the whole face of the world has befen darkened by
war. In the midst of our ppace and happiness, our thoughts dwell with painful disquiet
upon thp struggles and sufferings of the nations at war and of the peoples upon whom war
Viaji brought disaster without ohoice or possibility of escape on their part. We cannot think
of our own happiness without thinking also of their pitiful distress.
"Now--therefore, I, Woodrow Wilson, president of the United States of America do ap
point Thursday, the Thirtieth of November, as a day of national thanksgiving and prayer,
Mirf urge and advise the people to resort to their several places of worship on that day to
render to Almighty God for the blessings of peace and unbroken prosperity which
He has bestowed upon our beloved country in such unstinted measure. And I also urge
awH suggest our duty in this, our day of peace and abundance, to think in deep sympathy of
the peoples of the world upon whom the curse and terror of war has so pitilessly fallen and
to contribute out of our abundant means to the relief of their sufferings. Our people could,
in no better way, show their real attitude toward the present struggle of the nations than by
contributing out of their abundance to the relief of the sufferings which war has brought
in its train.
"In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United
lliales to be affixed.
"Done at the city of Washington, this seventeenth day of November, in the year of
our Lord, One Thousand, Nine Hundred and Sixteen and of the independence of the United
LABOR UNIONS
Executive Committee Report
Endorsed by the Delegates
Condemning Arbitration
Plans.
TO HELP NEWSPAPERS
Investigation Into the High Cost
Print Paper, Is to be Taken
Up by t(ie A. F.
of U.
({United Press Leased Wire Service]
BAI/TIMORE), Md., Nov. 17.—While
the American Federation of Labor
In annual convention, sat in the Oar
den theatre and listened more or lees
patiently to the reading of resolu
tions today, a tremendous undercur
rent of interest swept toward the ac
tion* of the big railways in fighting the
Adamson law and how such action
would affect organized "labor.
Speculation ran high as to what the
representatives of the big four of the
railway employee would say when
they addressed the convention the
first of next week.
Report Endorsed.
BALTIMORE. Mr., Nov. 17—Dele
gates to the American Federation of
fore federal investigation had been
completed, would become a criminal
act.
The Oknadlan arbitration plan waa
suggested to President Wilson as a
solution of the railway crisis when
strike was threatening recently.
The resolution asking for a com
mission to investigate the high cost of
living, was adopted without debate.
The convention will in all probabil
ity launch a movement to help the
newspapers throughout the country,
at ohe of its early sessions. The cost
oxp«tpr share J"" year propor. lonate- of news paper, It is pointed out, has Rotenturm pass In Rumania and being twenty-fl-e cents and an effort
I-madewto the deno^i- flE »t any time during the period advanced in price since the first of charged Franc Tyreur warfare by Just to rest his overcoat, a college
nouncexneni is _*.
VMI*
fmt
1
1
KEOKUK, IOWA, FRIDAY,
NOV.<p></p>RAMSLITTLE
17, 1916
(Signed) "WOODROW WILSON."
OF
of
Official Report on Somme
Fighting, States That Artil
lery Duels Are Being
Fought.
CAPTURE MACHINE GUNS
British Report Says Further Ad
vaneea Have Been Made Along
the North Bank of
Ancre.
[United Press Leased Wire Service.]
BERLIN, (via Sayville wireless)
Nov. 17.—Repulse of British infantry
attacks preceded by artillery fire,
near Beaucourt and vigorous artillery
duels along both banks of the Somme,
were detailed In the official statement
today. It read:
"On both banks of the Somme,
Labor contention today unanimously, thero were temporarily strong artil- pliclty of $50,000 dinners
endorsed the executive council- report
(jery
which condemned all proposed I liah attack near Beaucourt- was today, but the he Ttest-to-goodness part
pulsory arbitration plans under which, iaunched, following a preparing fire of the Bhow vas over after Judge
eit iiae mm f"™", T1"•"^r^rbrfoie Tn"lts the Tear from'lOO par cent to In some Rumanian people. General Von Mack- bred, custom tailored horse is sub- jewels gracing society in the boxes
nation of the bonds. .Theywfllbe -old ofjhe i^tln^es nearly 8W per cent. ensen reported lively artillery ex-, jected to much discomfort. Still this on various occasions. Two hundred
STILL COUNTING !r|l|| fit
IIMH'S VOTES
California Returns Have Not
All Been Compiled, But
Grand Total is Near
Completion.
FIVE COUNTIES ARE OUT
Hughes Is About 3,500 Votes Behind
According to Estimate Made
by the United
Press.
[United Pre^p Leased Wire Service.]
BAN FRANCISCO, Nov. 17.—'While
official compilation of the vote cast at
the recent presidential election was
under way at Sacramento under per
sonal supervision of Secretary of State
Jordon, official returns of all but Ave
of the fifty-eight counties in the state
were tabulated by the United Press
today. These showed a net gain for
Wilson over his unofficial plurality of
532. The totals of the fifty-three coun
ties were: Hughes 183,703 Wilson
198,482, a lead for Wilson of 14,779. The
same fifty-three counties in the unof
ficial count gave Wilson a lead of
14,247. Ih the five counties which
have not yet completed the official
count Hughes had a lead of 10,706 in
the unofficial returns. This would in
dicate a lead of 3,541 for Wilson in the
state, on the 'basis of fifty-three official
county returns and five unofficial.
These plurality figures will be chang
ed, of course, when the full return Is
in. Hughes has shown gains in Los
Angeles county and Wilson In Ala
meda and San Francisco counties.
None of the countlM? has completed
the official count as
Secretary of -Statfe Jordon announc
ed that he had requested the republi
can and democratic state chairmen to
send representatives to Sacramento
to watch the official tally and to as
sist his men In compiling: the figures.
He Is anxious to have all parties sat
isfied when he certifies the official re
turn to the electoral college.
Tho canvass In San Francisco and
Los Angeles counties 'Is proceeding
slowly.
In New Mexico.
AILBtfQTTEIftQtrE, N. M., Nov. 17.—
^Eleven of the twenty-six oountles in
New Mexico have officially canvassed
the vote taken on November 7.
Of these counties, eight are repub
lican and three democratlo, which
causes the returns canvassed so far
to show pluralities for all the repub
lican candidates, though in some iiv
stances the pluralities are reduced
from those shown on the unofficial
returns. Of the remaining fifteen
counties yet to report, officially, nine
are known to have given substantial
democratic (pluralities, three are
known to have gone republican and in
three the vote was close.
President Wilson's plurality In the
state based on. known returns, will
be between 2.000 and 3.000, It is esti
mated now.
Indications are that the official re
turns when completed, will show
safe pluralities for Jones, democrat,
(continued on page 2)
Show in New York City Cost a
Quarter and Represented
$2,300,000 Display.
[By George Martin. United Press
Staff Correspondent.]
NEW YORK, Nov. 17.—Having in
dulged In a couple of million dollar's
worth of horse show this week, 30
clety today got back to the rigid sl»j»-
duels, \bout evening, an Eng-1 There's be a few more minor events
either a strike or lockout declared be- had also extended to the south I William H. Moore, winner, and three of carrots every day In addition to
bank of the Ancre. The attack failed, other society wfcipf in the coach and her regular food. Most of E. T. Stotes
as well as a night attack west of Le- four contest, gave an exhibition of bury's horses, it is said, prefer pea
Sars.
"The fifth regiment guards of gren
adiers, stationed on the road from
$250,000 on wheels.
Flers to Thilloy cleared that section each hoof Is all very well In its wav,! groom. No real groom would think
of English troops, capturing live ma- but in a common public place like of speaking ro you for less.
chine guns. French advances on both Madison Square garden, one nev*r All together^ it was an exceedingly
sides of Sailly 8nd SaiUesel brought can tell what underbred horse ine high priced, high class show. A mil*
no advantage to the aggressors. Dur-1 may be compelled to associate with. lion dollar's worth of class on tha
ing the day and night on both siiies Besides one mit ses the soft leather
flyers were active." lining of one's box stall. Even in
The statement detailed further ad-! this high cl.i«s public rendezvous
vance of Teutonic troops south if where It costs an ordinary hum:.n
in Rumania
by Just to .rest his
has brought a reduo. changes and fiom the Macedonian million dollar aggregation of four
I foot fashionable did not have it EO
{Continued on
..
f.. rough. All the stall poets wore young
THE WEATHER
Fair. Temp, unchanged. Local
,temp—7 p. m. 43 7 a. m. 28.
TVG
TEN PAGES
!HLL ur
Within Three Days Bulgarian
Tpwn Expected to be in
the Hands of the
Allies.
JS IN VISE-LIKE GRIP
'French, Italian, Serbian and Ruev'atf
Forces Have Advanced to
the Gates of the
City.
[United Press Leased Wire Service}
LONDON, Nov. 17.—The ftvll ot
Monaatlr within three days, was confi
dently predicted here today with re
ceipt of fresh news of the victorious
progress toward the Macedonian city,
of French, Italian, Russian and Ser
bian forces. Fighting through snow,
sleet and mud, the four allies have
Impetuously swung twice in flanking
movements of gigantic magnitude
and have a vise-like grip on the Mon
astir neighborhood.
General SerraO refused to he drawn
into attacking the Bulgarian de
fenses to the south of Monaatlr—de
fenses whfcll Sofia some" time ago'pro^"
nounced impregnable—and according
to all reports which reach here, has
forced retirement of the Bulgarian
Teuton defenders from these positions
without their hardly striking a blow,
by threat of strong enveloping move
ment.
The fall of Monastlr will be a dis
tinct blow to Bulgarian pride and ex
perts here predicted another appeal
from Sofia for German assistance in
retaking the city. Its natural impor
tance is not great, but Bulgaria ap
parently attaches sentimental value
to the holding of the city.
One Immediate effect of the allies4
advance. It was expected here, would
be relief from General Von F&lfcen
hayn's forward movement into Ru
mania. Military observers believe
some of his forces will be diverted to
render assistance to the retreating
Bulgarians north of Monastlr. Jusd
now Rumania is feeling the effect oi
this strong movement southward of
the Teutonic forces. Von Falkenhayn
having crossed the Carpathians and
advanced a score or more of miles
across tho frontier, occupying a posi
tion where he now threatens a flank«
lng movement of the Rumanian line
on the Danube.
Considerable activity, coincident
-with the Monastlr advance, is also re
ported from the British force operat
ing to the east of the Struma river,
(Continued from page X.)
LUXURIANT QUARTERS FOR
THE HIGH PRICED HORSES
mattresses on their elbows so they
could be backed Into softly. Mono
gramed bath robes, ear muffs, hoof
mittens, sleeping bags, manicure se*.s.
shower baths, fajicy pillows and a
few other of the common comforts of
life in a stable were provided in pro
fusion.
There was Mrs. Guggenheim's
"Knut," for instance. He had a
bevelled mirror and a special comb
and brush for his forelock, and across
the street of stalla stood Conference,
the high jumping, high living old girl
Felix Rye, New York, who aspires to
follow the well known cow over the
moon. Connie Is the champion high
jumper of the ^vorld. Record, eight
feet, three inches. She eats a bucket
nut and
The horses are very glad It is over, information was gathered only after
Steam heated stall? and a groom for a lavish expenditure of 25 cents per
chopped feed salad. All this
hoof, ?150,000 worth of it owned by
E. T. Stotesburv of Philadelphia and
an equal amount by Judge Moor.\
$20,000 worth of decorations, thirty
thousand dollar's worth of priz«vi.
Another million dollar's worth oi
and fifty thousand dollar's worth »»i
gowns doing the same, in all, abo it
[$2,300,000 worth of horse show.
'J
'-ii
--a!
sai
jtn
f]
a I
|l1
4*
1
1
