THE TENS GAZETTE _
Gazette Pubhing Company, Ld. Official Paper of the Parish oO d artd dFisth iaa Levee District..
NEW SERIES.VOL. XXVI ST. JOSEPH, A, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17. 1916 IIII
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
DR. LA. MUURDOCI
St. Joseph, La.
Physldan and .urgon
Omo o lak Road.m l
ona Phase 12-3; Reeldnce. 1
L O. IUy. M. D. H L TriesM. D
DIR LILLY AND TRICE
sa ,esm ors t eD LAfl & " ,,daaa
SLt. Joseph, Louisiana
Omce, Bank Bldg., up stairs.
G. H. CLINTON
Attorney-at-Law
ST. JOSEPH, LA.
W l practice In East Carroll. Uadts.,
Tuets, Concordi. anrd the Bupremr
aid edertal Courts.
DR. GEORGE N. CLARK
DenUst
ST. JOSEPH, LOUISIANA
I Newall Bullding, Plank Road
W. D. NOBLE, M. D.
Phyosician end Surgeon.
Office Phone No. 26.
ReeJUlence Phone Ne. 1.
NKWELLTON, - - - LOUISIANA
THOMAS M. WADE, JR.
Attorney-at-Law
Will practice In Tensa sad adJola
itParishes, the Supreme Court M
the Btate and the Federal oorutm
Loans negotiated on real estate
Rt. JOSEPH, - - LOUISIANA.
NATCHEZ CONFECTIONERY
Confections and Sweets
Of All Kinds.
CANDIES, CAKES, ICE CREA.L t
WE SOLICIT
WEDDING AND PARTY
ORDERS
Our Restaurant is now open and s
service is unecelled.
NATCHEZ CONFECTIONERY.
NATCHEZ, - - MISSISSIPPI,
STiL "SENATOR CARDILL"
4 O P&RrNCa. Mauter
o. r WILDN, egat
Reguir Tr-Weekly
NATCHEZ & VICKSBL'RGO
PACKET
Leaves Natches Sundays, Tuesdaib
sad Thusdays at 12 oos.
I:
Leaves Yicksburs M sdays. Wes, I
ansdays and Frida~ys at aces, aO em
am.sl it "zPress atIs~
i. .. .. . Al. M. Joseph \Viitaker. MI. i. I
Phone 70 I'hone 71l
DRS. LILLY & WHITAKER i
Physicians and Surgeons
ST. JOSI iH. LOUISIANA
oflfce. Bank Building, Upstairs
Phone 34-J.
A. J. KISNER, M. D.
Specialist
Eye, Ear, Nose and Throat
GLASSES FITTED
(Suceessor to R. C. French,
502, I,.AIN STEET
Natchez, - - 1issisiippi
O. M. FOWLER
Surveyor
312 ARLING;TON AXE.
Natchez, - Mississippi
rIIOSE NO. *Z
I offer mty servi-es to the Te,,1':is
puhlltc. nod wi. he glad to answer
,all. by mnall or wlre.
Thos. M. M.\Vad,. Jr. 1're.ide't.
THE TENSAS ABS'TRACT CO.
(Incorporated)
ST. JOMEPII. LOi.UISIANA
c'omplete und tcurr.ct Albstract. o"
Title Of all "ci'z.a, i.4-h ., I. a~ml
iron, records of Il *l ti ttate.. I:.t
tnd4 par!lh. and vetili t iii olrig I;.;
|I|strtll t|,'l .
a le 1 Good 1narde
,.merican dol
mars grow on the)
adventisins· tree.
to have a sale
"i
Bills owris
We arefizedlor turna
~Iout work ol thr is
in doubic quick time.
L'
Xr~~·......&' A'.,~B
I-I
ii.
r )%
r MIN
RCYAL ?ALACL. AN' CONSTITUTION ý59LiAz
A GA\INST a ha'kgr, l of '
c rulmlirng but iiagliit'tent mar- 1
leh. te'lples, of miaslv'- aqlue
ducts, of extensii a ph lllll itlheaL
ters, it i:s easy to project the. tics o.f
:,entinmetnt which Mhtd the life of the 1
eIreek of ttdtay to t hat of the classie
worthies from whnl he (.ilims direct 1
dsc'ent, cci.ordingtt to a (onlluni'tlation
addre.ssed to the Nation:al Geographic
society by George lllgginLs M.oses, for
nmerly Unitel States auntassaldor to
Greece. Mr. Moses In his graphic pic
ture of'the Athens of today and of the I
modern citizens of the city which
reached the pinnacle of its greatness
In the days of Pericles, says:
It was with only a slight shock that
I learned that the man who brought 1
me my morning coffee at the legation I
bore the tremendous name of Themis- 1
tocles. And yet it is difficult to vis
ualize the modern Athenian with those
' ho, once walked his streets.
"Thinking of Homler, of Praxiteles
and of l'hIhlas. one looks for Helen,
for Hlerlmens and for Athene; but the
only helen I ever saw in Athens was
an American girl. married to Ia Inmm
bher of the cuainet, and whose golden
hair, blue eyes and classic feiatures
mlade her at once the reigning Iihostess
in the city. And it is only in the
islands or deep In the country where
the Albanian flood once s\wept across
the Attic plain has never reached, that
ione finds the facial lineaments and the
bodily grace which the ancient sculp
tor has taught the modern world as
leing coinnmon to all Greeks of classic
tune. And this survival persists chief
ly among the children, because inces
s:nt toll and scanty nourishment soon
deprive both boys and girls of their
native grace and stamp them with
the ineradicalle marks of a life of
labor.
Climate is Agreeable.
"The Attic year is sharply divided
climatically into two seasons, the rainy
Sind the dry, the hItter beginning late
In May and extendinlg teo early Octo
her, and during which there Is no rain
full except a single thunder shower,
which conies with greait regularity dur
inlag the second week in August. Ol;t
Wide of Attica cliimatic condlitions rsre
sonmewhat Ibetter. In the islands alo'ng
the Gulf of Corinth, and in the Morea
there is constant greenery-grass,
vines :andI many trees. But for one
% who spent,. is I did, four summuers on
and in Athcrs., it is not easy to learn
that hills nlay have a beauty asi(le from
I. forests, and that colors, contour and
form can lend enchantment to the
naked reck. It was long before my
- New England eyes appreciated the
wonderful tints which the Athenian
sulnet tllrows upon Lycalaettus and
HIymettu and that I lea:rned that Ath
- ens now. as. ever, rshitll ibe hailed as
the 'viohi t-erro\wn'ed city.'
"Personally. I found the Athenian
cl imate n'reeab.''l, and I cannot now
recall i single day of tny stay there
kWnen, even in the rainy seasoll,. the
sun did not shine at leat part of the
tlmne. Coli winlds there were, to be
sure, in winter, blowing down from
the snow-carlp,,ld bills above the town
or blowing t:p from the sea at I':haler
on : but thelre were no frosts: the roses
blootmed .luriing every month of the
ye:ar in the lea:tion gardens: oranges
rilpened in the open air, Mind we picked
oulr br:eakfast fruit from the trees
.ut ide of the window, while the palm
tloul"'i=ies there as I have seen It no
where else, not even in the Riviera.
The sutlnner heat is easily endurable,
! despite a welil-nigh constant tempera
ture of nearly 1(k), the absence of rain
removing thilt humlidity which makes
American Inidsulnnier so intolerable.
Social Year Is Divided.
"Socially. too, the Athenian year dl
video Itself with the climate. At the
end of the rainy season the court, the
dlplomatic' lHtly and the rich flee away,
I the latter going, as they say, 'to Eu
rope'; and to take ltheir ptit'.' there
flock to Athos- and In thl , ,.aidh h,
tels at Plialerot: nild to vill:ti all! re
sorts at Ketihi.ial-in-the-hi!ll nluiuberý
of rich Grtek" frifom A.\sia .Minor and
frotm Egytipt li and tl \\hl, city re
verses the order of its n inter life,
turnilng night into day and spending
most of the hours L.tw'en sUo.et and
sunllrise out-of-doors..
"Athenian houses are built to resist
heat. The exterior and interior walls
are all of thick stone, and, with tight
ly closed windows, one stays indoors
until the afternoon tea, when the level
rays of the setting sun Iswrulit adven
ture. Then one strolls or drives, dines
wherever the dinner hour may find
him, and invariably out of doors, jour
neys by tram to Phaleron for thetbath
ing and the music, or seeks the cool
garden of the Zappelou to see the
"movies," or goes to Alyssiia for din
nor and the vaudeville, and never loses
caste by returning honme as late as
two o'clock in the morning.
Athens Dines in the Open.
"Everywhere about the town. on the
roofs of clubs or hotels. lil' the gar
d( ns or on the terrace.s of restaurants,
Itnonath the ierpler trees of the parks,
and even in the streets tables are
spread. and I ventulre tot say that more
than 1).l000) peoplle dine in the open
air each night of an Athenian summer.
Greek cooking is more oriental than
indigenous. Lamb or kid, with clhiik
en-which has always seemed to me
to be the national bird of all Europe
are the principal meats, though from
the shores of Ele!lsis comlle dehl~ronut
wild (ltuck, and other game birdls are
found near by. while pilau. a Turkish
dish of rice with chicken or litub,
and gluourti, the Bulgarian ferrnent of
milk, are standards in every Ilhlleuni
bill of fare.
"With the renewal of the rains the
brown fields and hillsides quickly
clothe themselves in green. The royal
faimlily returns from its "cure," the dip
limats collie hack from leave, thli
great houses of the city open, and
the winter season begins.
"Enterta:ining In Athens travels a
isomewhat narrow circle. State din
iiers at the palaces, reciprocal enter
iarlmnents at the legations, few recep
tihns, and still fewer dinners at Greek,
houses form the backbone of the win
ter's enjoyment. Greeks rarely invite
a stranllger to their board, although
among then:selves exists a soiery
which'l the foreign colony knows of
chiehly by rumor.
"There is much conversation in Athe
nian salons, and always of a high or
ider. In no cal,ital of Europe. I believe,
can le found a more cultullred so'ijety.
and in no drawing room that I have
known doe's c' nvertat!on flow SO
,snio,thly and at such at highl level.
Art, politics and the (drnlma are all
well kLaown in Athens. and the (;reekks
are such accomplished linguists that
any frci'iga'er Imay use his own speec'h
without hesitation. Fr nch. of eradrst
is the prevailing foreign tongue, with
English pressing it hard for first
place."
A Possibility.
"Strancers in the city need have hlut
little troublle in g-,tting about on the
street cars." we decla:ired. "They run
frequently andi-"
"'Eh-ya:." returned old Festus Pes
ter, "hut lperhaps sone of the strangers
do not com1e to town for the sole pur
pose of running frequently.'"-Kunsas
City Star.
She Knew the Game.
Mrs. Willis (at the hball game, as tie
pitcher and catcher hold a conference)
-What are they talking about?
Mr. Willis-About what to throw to
the next hatter.
Mrs. Willis-Bnt they aren't allowed
to throw anything to hitm except the
ball, are they :-lPu'-k.
f GOTIAM
CITIE5
Gotham t Organs All to Be in Tune Next Year
I E\% YTOR of the really great reforms long necessary is promised
N at last. d organ In New York is to be tuned. There are 500
hand ,rand One of thnem is In tune. George H. Bell, commis
sioner of licenses. is responsible. An
.8 Italian gentleman with a monkey and
a :n organ stopped outside Mr. Bell's
,7 2  residence one morning and Mr. Bell's
appetite was spoiled by the acidulous
Saccent the Italian gentleman's organ
... ---gve to what Signor Verdi had sup
 Vposed to he among his sweetest and
most melodious harmonies.
Mr. Bell went out and so fright
ened the Neapolitan by displaying a
badgef that the gentleman from Italy
pray .l! for merc.y, and when told It
was p.io.ibie only if he :tad the organ tunted at once, he, the organ and the
monkey hurried to a tuner for treatment.
'The other 499 are at or :a)lut Broud and Watll street!s every business day.
\VhIy organl grinders infest the financial district is a min3.t-ry unfathomable.
\Witlh one excepltion no one ever has been knrlo\wn to give mloney to an organ
grimnder to play in the neighborhood of thef stock exc'hange. Many persons give
I mon,y' to them not to play or to ('cease laying.
The one person who is known to have given nloney to ill organ grinder to
Splay is an Englishman, it nmember of the cotton cexchange. On the afternoon
of ,ecenmber 24. 1914, full of ('hrlstmas spirits and patriotic sentiment, hel
thonuht it would be a noble thing to have an organ grinder he had met in
.South William street play "Tilpperary." Ile gave $1 to the music master.
:Every time the Italian stopped or tried to switch to another tune the English
man gave $1 to him. From early in the afternoon until nightfall that machine
ground out "Tipperary." Bty that tilme teverybody but the Englishman was an
earn,.t supporter of the kaiser.
It always has been supljls,'d th:~t thl news of the large sum that one
Italian got that day has led other organ grindlers to hope that some day some
thing like that will hnappen to, them just as ihe report of big winnings on the
race track or the stock t xihange, leads persons to persist in playing in the
expectlration that sonme day they will be tlhe lucky ones.
Mr. Iell declares that hi' never u\ill is:sue a license for a hand organ again
mnl.s that hand organ hlts been Ituneii. All licenses expire December 31,
i91. lile will withhteld renewals until the grintmers bring certificates that all
the bile anid distempelcr have been,( remoived from the torture
Thousand Seattle Men Spanked for Their Curiosity
S EATTI'LE. \'ASII.-Mor,, than 1,0(M) prmilneint Seattle nmen have actually
beaum sp ankecd with a rulbber hose by Ed Murray. a clerk in the city-county
buihling,, because of their curiosity. to l.ook at ,icturrs. 'The list includes
superir court judges, clty cotuneil
men, heads of city and county de
ipartments, dozens of lawyers, and an
-assorted crowd of others, some oi"
them froim other cities.
Because each victim wanted to
see his friend spanked the news has
been kept quiet
"Have you Peen the Seattle
blackmail picturls! whispered Mtr
ray to a fellow worker one day.
"No," was the reply.
"Well, they're going to be dle
stroyed tomorrow," he went on. "If you want to see them I can fix it up for
you."
Then Murray and his victim went through dark hallways to one of the
long record vaults on the first floor of the county-city building.
"I'll keep watch," was the next word; "they're in the box in the corner.
SJust pick 'em out"
When the victim leaned low, the trusty rubber hose came into play.
"\'hack !" it resounded as it hit the victim where dad used to apply the
paddle.
"pWow !" wailed the victim.
eMurray, who is gray headed and always serious appearing, discovered
he hadl uncovered a great indoor sport.
ills victim worked with him in decoying others, and Murray became a
master in the art of swinging the hose.
"Name, please," he asks them, after landing the one swift blow. Red
fared and twitching between agony and laughter, the victims gave their
names and were recorded in Murray's book, which now contains more than
1,000 names.
One man came all the way from Everett, walked into the comptroller's
e office, went to Murray. and asked confidentially if it could be fixed up so he
b could see the pictures. Murray arranged It And the man went back to
Everett and sent down more victims.
Park Love Fashions in New York Quite Unchanged
: N E\V YORK.-There's absolutely no change In love fashions. says the vet
i eran policeman on the Central Park beat, near the entrance at One Hun
dredth street. "I'm patrolling a section of park where I played as a boy,"
he says. "I've watched the spooners
I •O.V now and I've never seen any change
• AI in love-maklng styles. The language
C of the day may change and the fash
ions in clothes may change, but not
the antics of the smitten.
"They sit the same as they did 40
- i., years ago and they hold their arms
• all cramped up for hours-same as
they ustii. They look at each other's
v*yes like the monkeys you see in the
Zoo--just looking, sometimes half an
hour at a time, with not a word. "Do I bother them? Not on your life. I'll
· go out of my way n&t to luother them. I think there's soiethling wrong when
a chap doeHsn't want to spoomi now and then. Only once was I roiled--but
even that passed away quickly. I came on my own boy spooning with a
r, pretty little girl. What made mn sore was that I coughed and blew my nose
3- aC) .s to tip them. They were, slow., I roared out: 'Kelly. come over here!'
7 "The. boy recognizeil my voice anil jll:nlpt'l with the girl. They tried to
beat it, hut I told thenm ti' wait. They di(( and I toli hium I'd thrash him
w hen 1 got home, and I tolii the girl I'd a good notion to spank her then and
;,'there.
t "r .N,, you won't.' said my boy. And then he walked off with his girl just
z as if hi' we.re my father and I was the son."
Atlanta Has the Only Woman Veterinary Surgeon
ATLANTA. GA.--MIss Ruth Corker. fifteen years old, of Oraowood Park, a
Iiuturb) of Atliant:. is thi' only girl veterinary surgeon in the worlil. Treat
Ing mluiflcs for icckjJa~ or se'wing up huge cuts in horses' legs is child's play
fir this girl. who learnedl hi'r profes
si,,n through her father and grand
fatber, both of whomi are vreterinary
suriiins. She has a large number of
anhial patients.
r- "It takes a barrel of chloroform
s to put a mule to sleep." said Miss
Corker. "So I rope them down. in
Ject cocaine locally and operate."
Miss Corker is very pretty, with
dalrk brown hair and hazel eyes. Shi'
wanted to do *'somet~hing different"' d/
from other girls. she saidi. This is a
new and entirely unexplored field for women. There are woman yahysii.ansi
to who specialite on human patients, but sa, far as is known this little girl is !
the only femele "horse doc~tor" in the wocrld.
Miss Corker" is very much in love with her wolt. She has acted in the
S-apacity of helper to her father for so long that there Is nothing In the li.o
[of animal almr that she !o afraid to tackle,
EDISONS
LATEST STYLE CABNET.HORNLESS
PHONOGRAPH
OWN"a wrrz
The Diamond Reproduenr acd the Blue Ambeid Reemo
T1e ow ne Ambnrol neud Is praetc u-ll l idnii ..
When ja ru with the Udium Diamond Reprodueir the ttIW5
sad ewnrtues at the original must are faithfully preservlend.
the reproduction Is Free ifrom Meoaamlal quality.' Qtatos rusts
JOHNSTOW'S CHOCOLATES HAVE BECOME INTERNATIONAL
FAVORITES, AND ARE RECOGNIZED AS THE
WORLD'S FINEST CONFECTIONS.
Some f the Meet Popular Sellers Ant
INNOVATIONS SWEET, TRIAD, QUINTETTE,
MALTED MILK, CHOCOLATE BRAZIL NUTS IN CREAM,
THAT PACKAGE. EXTRAORDINARY, ETC
Put up in dainty packages, from 80c to S5O0.
Hugo Jereslaw,
NEWELLTON, - - - LOUISIANA
Hot Springs, Ark.
THE NATION'S FASHIONABLE PLAYGROUND
NATUREIS GREATEST SANITARIUMl
QUICKIEST TIME AND BEST SERVICE
VIA
----IRON MOUNTAIN---
Fer Full Information as to Schedule, Rates, Etc., r for ree
Illustrated BOoklet, See Your Local 'icket Agent, or writ
A.G.P.A.
A eundria, - - - LoisiýB
THAGENTS FOR: X IITI
Wiueh ugoJr Aems Gw
Oe- Fire ArmN se . HOARTR 1:A
Howe Scale rk
Smith a Wesson Revolvers _ _ _
Mllburn Hickman W agen
ChamplIn Mowing MacUeTAI
Hortlg-Bookeor Plow Ce. C TIVATORS
Vulvan Plow Ce.
Banner Buggles
Molilne Plow C."A
Starretts Fine Tools
Strling Emory Wheel Ca P
ILEWIS HOFFMAN HARDWAREC
UI~JIIV~tL~ COM PANY
Hoffman Block - Vlckaburg, Miss.
i i I-------- _----------
Thos. J. olmes,
Ti n and Sheet iron Worker,
t 1I LESPED)EZA SEED PANS FOR SALE
Ib theuse oWthi panO atched tthe-ttrb
of Mowing Machine, oU can Uave from one to two
bH s oarfl s-eed to the acre.
He as all the best features of a irst-dam hotel
VElAvflER SHlOP, BATH ROOMS, AND AN EXCELL.e
nI! I BILLIARD ROOM
It A favorite stopping phee for· Teusas people.
J(~AL G. SMlTH, - PrOprietA r
Hoff-, Block- --------- Vl-b- M-- ss. , +:
inAre You Going to Build?
BI so urr out the idea under the moss favorable conditoiru
by seeing us about the lumber required .or the purpose
T to beild fetnomicallr, build w oel
FOR HIGHGRADE, WELOMANUFACFURCED EOUGE
AND DRESSED LUMBER,
I I~ uL~ge, loing, Ce~lng ComPposition Ree~fings Sash
Doorr, ndso pFinle Interior Fipnih, Etc.,
Cell on US. We mke a speilty of Long Ls Yeow P-ne
Bridge, Flooring. Alwrays get our prices and investigate wr
Aities before placing your order.
~ LA ENOCHS, The Lumberman
iro mG-GAD. mAmYA  IOGM,;
NA TCHDEZE MISS. " 5
r--- Doors, ---IC I Fl Interio - Et. - - - --------
JOB PRINTING Bad Frietil od .
eIttle cheaper thas the other fellow. We~dding inviatoas. hitter heads, bill hda.
ml. bills. tateNmeti. dodHerS. cards, tc, ahl reccwe the samme caru Isine
-lus a iU~bettie r tan seem Aecsm. Prompt delivry alws
.,.r
