Km TEAK No
:W uen*6 backwikd.
When the Laud Has
■ WW Wd Sparsel > Settled.
gM nr .hi 1.001111- frem. ef..| \m
liderstand that 1 r Wheeler
work on lie properfv
HVj kv a Bridgepen Conn , com
i' llljliusd on Mineral Hill near
■■Badly- < A lark' an ’ ou,a l ” work
BVfge on the Mineral Mil: claims,
||B1« were never made to paj. large-
remoteness trim transpor-
Wheeler still lives at the
( ten he is not awa\ looking
properties h owns in the
■aai
IHigiefroni S. E. Barron, the tiiaii-
S. Mining com pan.. with
fStdtuated a few miles south of
Kh,states that Or. E. 11. Thatcher,
one of the stockholder , in
klHfcrporailon. has recent I > visited
and return- hone reeling
with the properly and Hie
■nof develop men; so far made,
l&Q. S. went through minis vtcis-
K but never paid for operations.
(Hgßsrron was one of the hardest
E,operators in the county until
moment he was
Huito the state legislature, when
■Kg* up mining in this county.
Hnkeianow is nor known.)
Hie Want daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Hi Ml died Saturdti . (Mr. Beall
fifteen years and Mrs.
HlkMwMrs. Henry Staples. I
Bto Prospector states that the ther-
Umtm registered close to zero,
Huns something like th■■ weather
Bine been having this week
BkKC was billed to take place at
BrnSnceof Wfu. Bain, on the Sim-
Bnetn last night . (Mr. Bain in those
B|«i8 a rancher in the Simllkn-
WMSKS- Ho was elected to a coun
a taste of metropolitan I
to Conconully and
Bvntnaed to the farm to stay. He
Bbtm it Okanogan, i
m trials and tribulations of the
■Beef those days iu the matter of
■Mrieation with the outside ran
■t be understood and appreciate,!
nbpeople of the present day. with
■Mb catting through the country
■ M west, north and soma. The
■Min' says "If there is anything
MMag upon Christian lortitude
■ Waring upon the arrival of
■fit at this place, and at this season
■Hiyear, we have failed to discover
BAa is a social Item in which a
Bh resident of Orovllle figured:
Hfc* of the musically inclined
Blls Of Mr. and Mrs. John Boyd,
B*Med last Thursday evening to
Hi Mrs. J. F. Samson, who is an
Hapllshed performer on the guitar "
Bferlff Reid was up last Friday for
H purpose of putting Duu Mulchaey
Hpssession of a piece of land on I'al
■ lake. over which a protracted cou-
Hthas been carried on in the super-
Bconrt, Judge Neal having hut r< -
Hf>r decided the case in favor of
BUmt. (Mr. Mulchaey is still living
Hike land that was under controversy
■ Judge Neal is a resident of Oro-
H*. but the wherabouts of ex-Hheriff
BU is not known, i
■wee in a while the law was enfore-
Bd this country la those early days.
F Prospector says that "Sunday the
■** were surrendered to solitude.
Bnefa absence of people on Sunday
■ (ter before been noticed in town,
hinted that Sunday closing
■lnference to the back door as well
■ ike front. The roving population
■At seclusion and wept.”
|* kill was given at Hard (,'iuiiimugs’
■A away down on the Okanogan
■t. Me evening last week, which
■••Handed by everybody in the
pktwhood. Fred Reiser, of this
Bj*kW In attendance. When a voting
Bn V this way has a desire to shake
■At a little matter of an hundred
■ drive does not stand in his way.
B*Waot learn whether Hard look an
■Apart, but If he did, and has lost
■Alb since the days when wo knew
■it would have been worth (ho trip
■ ••• the old man do the Highland
■lara sailor's hornpipe. (Mr. C'uiu
■felived on a farm where the low n
B’naaogan is now situated. In this
BP*. Cummings is a prosperous
■•Ant of Riverside and shows lit-
BjAi of the passage of years. Mr.
JAf is still a resident, of Loomis,
■••skittish as he was twenty years
■ Aving a boy almost large enough
PAuddances in neighboring towns »
■~*nral tidal wave has engulfed
r > *** or th. Tlie official order was
PjAnted demanding the closing of
PAainess houses in the south end
F•• Sundays. The front doors
F tniigiously locked, but the rear
F**»»were left on the latch. Prose-
FJ Attorney Peter McPherson was
Ppbpon to round up the offenders,
Aarnetl Saturday tliat Peter
■ Awn below performing his duty.
FjAj - years ago Uie Wenatchee
|T|** 9 the southern boundary of
PAan county and the town of
BA*®rth was j„ (jkauogan county.
PWharao,., the prosecviling attor-
Still residing in this county at
Hunkey lias returned to
pAolly and resumed Ids extensive
C»«tice after a six weeks jaunt
C’fSpolcane. (Mr. Hinkey was a
FJAtot. but eccentric lawyer. He
Cm*® 1 hero to Honolulu, and has
Km * ighl
of for years.)
Ej*® to received that Alf. Cowherd.
FA*e next spring (Mr. Cowherd
was the original locator of the ivan
hoe mine, and with the assistance of
his wife ran a stamp mill on the prop
erty for years. Mr. Cowherd died sev
eral years ago and Mrs. Cowherd is a
resident of Spokane.)
.las. E. Forde. the head and front of
the Orovllle Trading company's mam
moth mercantile establishment, was
in ixioniis Friday last. (Mr. Forde
still has Interests in this countv. and
is a frequent visitor to Orovllle from
his home at Spokane.)
Guy Fruit returned Friday last from
a trip to Seattle, where he went in
charge of a shipment of cattle. (Mr,
Fruit is enjoying a quiet life in his
latter years at Loomis.)
Maj. Eretl Wehe leaves Monday for
the east and will be absent all winter.
(The Major at that time was working
claims near the old postoffice of W'o
hesvllle, and is living today on a
ranch on the shores of Wanlcut lake,
he having spent the pasi twenty-five
years in that neighboorhood. He is a
veteran of the civil war, and is holding
up well under the flight of years, for
he does not look any older today than
h ■ did at the time the above item was
written.)
Chas, Hamilton has returned to his,
rancli north of town after spending
the summer developing properties lie
is Interested in located in the neigh
borhood of Camp McKinney (Mr.
Hamilton was one of the most popular
residents of this upper country He
died some eighteen years ago.)
Roy Slater, the chief push of the
remnant of the progressive party of
Spokane county, was a visitor in Oro
vllle Thursday last. Thai party has
lost Its organization, but there is
enough of them left in this state, as
the late election went to prove, to
cut quite a figure In the results. Mr.
Slater says that the leaders, or bosses
(and that word is awful to use in
connection with the progressive party
considering that the membership was
so dead set againsi bossism.) took
offense because the entire organiza
tion of the republican party was not
turned over to their hands and so
bucked the ticket. It is fair to say in
this conjunction that If what Mr. Sla
ter says is true, and we believe he is
a man of his word, some of the repub
lican committeemen of the state act
ed very injudiciously in their treat
ment of the progressive leaders and
naturally created antagonisms How
ever, the rank ami file of the repub
Beau party welcomed the old mem
bers back into the party, and Mr. Slu
ter and his friends showed mighty lit
tle desire to placate all factions by
taking offence at a few at the expense
of the many republicans of the state.
The Omak Chronicle says that
"Orovllle and the Methow made some
wonderful Ann trades and got by quite
nicely. ’’ The Chronicle is the most
suspicious paper in the county and is
always finding a nigger in the wood
pile whenever a neighboring town
starts in to do anything. This paper
challenges the Chronicle to point out a
single instance wherein a trade was
made between Orovllle and the Me
thown. The vote of Orovllle is open to
inspection, and the figures do not show
that a trade of any character was
made. Candidates running for office
who visited Oroville during the cam
paign were firmly told that any kind
of a combine was out of the question.
Orovllle had one and only one object
in view. That object was accomplish
ed without sacrificing any other can
didate. it comes with a mighty poor
grace from the Chronicle to criticise
the voters of other precincts when it
boasts that Omak voters always stand
pat. It is not known what the word
means, hut the inference is that the
voters stand firmly together
.HIKING \ RKIORD.
Gouzuga college, of Spokane defeat
el the Montana State college foot ball
team Saturday and his old mates on
tile Orovllle football team lead with
pleasure the record Ben Prince made
in the game for Gouzuga. Prince made
the only touch down for his team. In a
report of the game the Spokesumn-
Heview sporting editor says “ I lie
Montana defense massed to meet a
eenier buck, but it would have taken
two teams to have stopped Prince,
who lore through like a 14-inch shell
and was not downed until ho was two
yards over the line And again.
"Prince was Gouzaga’s best ground
gainer, being good for gains from two
lo five yards practically every time he
carried the bull
li A/A Alt.
The Deborah society will bold us
annual fancy work bazaar Friday, No
vember 24, from 1 to •< l>. m„ in the l-i
hrury building, offering all kind.- -
fanev and useful articles suitable for
gilts'. Also doll clothes and candy
Cake and leu will be served all the
afternoon. Come ami do you: Xmas
shopping early.
CAKII PARTV.
The ladies of the Altar society oi the
Catholic church will give a card party
j n the library building next Wednes
day evening to which everybody is
cordially invited to attend. This will
be the first cf a series of card parties
to be given by the society during the
winter months.
OVER TO THE ENEMA
AN I'NNECEHSARV .1 AH.
SINGULAR ACCIDENT,
L , N ° rubb M>et With a sin
,l and very painful accident Sun
evening in which she had both
lists broken, ami suffered minor
bruises, Peter Sneve, Mr. Grubb, Mrs.
Crubb and Mrs. Grubb's mother, made
« trip Sunday to Molson iu Mr. Sneve's
ear. U„ , he return trj]J about 5 O . elock
“! *“ e evening, and within half a mile
01 the Nine-mile school house, in some
manner Mrs. Grubb was thrown from
the car, striking on her hands and
lace. She was rushed to Molson where
Gi. Tyler examined the Injured woman
and found both wrists broken and sev
eral slight cuts and bruises on the
face. The bones were set and the pa
tient made as confortable as possible
under the circumstances.
Mi bneve Is unable to account for
Hu accident He was traveling at. a
speed of not more than twenty miles
pci hour on a smooth road. The car
struck a rut, yet the jolt was hardly
sufficient for those in the front sent
to notice it. They were not aware that
Mrs Urubb was thrown out until the
elder lady notified tuem of the acci
dent it i . thought that Mrs Grubb
must have been standing up, or at
least partially upon her feet when the
slight jar precipitated her to Hie
ground. The injuries are not necessar
ily serious but the unfortunate suf
ferer will not have the use of her
hands for several weeks.
GRAND TREAT TOMOIM
The famous Royal Gwent AVelsh
Male singers, one of the very best
musical companies on the road, will
appear in the Orpheum this evening
under the auspices of the Orovllle
band, and the people of this place are
am tired of one of the most delightful
rausica lentertainments that has ever
been their pleasure to hear. There are
some dozen singers In the troupe, and
every one an artist. It is to be regret
ted that the coming of this company
was not known sooner so that greater
publicity could have been given to the
event Owing to its size the company
seldom appears in towns as small as
Orovllle, and the opportunity to enjoy
such a treat is owing to the fact that
the members have to remain over in
town all night making their circuit.
The daily Vancouver, B C. News-Ad
vertiser has this to say of the appear
ance of the troupe in that city;
“Gallant little Wales, world-tamed
for her singers. never did better than
last night, when the famous Royal
Gwent Welsh Male Singers delighted
an appreciative audience at the Avenue
theatre The technique, expression,
precision of phrasing and purity and
power of tone from bass to alto, was
wonderfully perfect. In fact the whole
performance was so charmingly beau
tiful that the most exacting critic
would be full of praises for these born
singers. This choir has had a magnifi
cent reception on the American conti
nent since July 11. 191'.
A . the singers are from Mouth
Wales, Mr. David John, the director,
has had a successful career in the
work for 23 years and was director for
22 years of the Salem Baptist Church,
Maestag.
The program was of a most diversi
fied nature from the famous Welsh
hymn, “Ton y Botel,” to the laughing
quartette. Every singer acquitted him
self well, and the choir covered itself
with glory Mr. Dewi Michael shone
brilliant in Hie song “Mary”, and in
the encore “Two Bright Lyes.” The
part song. “Father's Lullaby,’’ was a
real lullaby, it was followed by "Awn
be nyr Wyddfa Faur." sung in the
Gwalla tongue. The English is Let us
Climb to file Top of Mount Snowden.”
This part song brought forth raptui
ous applause which it well deserved,
la the duet “Excelsior.” one might
si’ggets that Mr. John's voice was per
haps. too heavy for Mr. Davies. Mr.
Ben Jones was intensely dramatic in
"The Maniac.” Showing his versatility,
for encore he gave “Annie Laurie,
with choir accompaniment. The Welsh
national anthem, "Land of My Fathers,'
led in solo by Mr. Trebor Stratton, and
joined iu by the choir and audience,
was exilarating.
ri’STL'LAII DECORATIONS.
Measles have broken out in the val
ley with the commencement of cold
weather and some of the neighboring
communities are hard hit. Oroville is
not to escape the scorge this year. Last
year there were scores of cases in all
tin; surrounding country, yet. strange
to snv, not :t single case made its ap
pearance in Oroville. This immunity
was purely accidental and could not
bo accounted for-at the time Hie
mild, yet annoying, and extremely
contagious disease broke out In town
last week. There have been many cases
down tlie valley, so it is reported, and
Oroville could not hope to escape the
second visitation. So far only some
half H dozen cases have developed, hut
fit KHe i considered tlie situation suf
ficiently alarming to justify the clos
ing of the schools tor a week. An Ol
der has been Issued prohibiting ail
public meetings as well as closing the
schools for the time being
TOWN ELECTION.
Within two or three weeks the resi
dents of Oroville, will he called noon
t,, select a mayor, a treasurer and
three councilman. The gentleman
whose terms expire are J. P. Samson,
mayor. K. A. McMahan, treasurer and
Dr F V Beale. Geo Bartel! and S. B.
Starrett, councilmen it is understood
that Mr. Sauisuu, who has given more
tOVILLE, WABHIN ?TON NOVEMBER 17, 1916
of his time to public business during
the past two years than he could well
afford to do, will not accept the re
nomiuation. It has been suggested, and
we consider the suggestion a moat ex
cellent one, that the people of the town
concentrate on Dr. F. A. Beale for may
or. The doctor has been a councilman
for a number of years and he has serv
ed the town faithfully and well. He
has always been prompt and constant
in attendance upon meetings and ha - )
been fair and just in his consideration
of every matter of municipal business
that has come before the council. The
last administration has been the best
me town has ever nad. especially in
the matter of strict economy Two
more years of the same careful busi
ness administration and the town v ill
•■e ir, a most favorable anti fortunate
condition. Dr. Beale has contributed
largely towards bringing tli: financial
affairs of the ’own up to Its present
standard and could be depended upon
to lontinue the good work.
A CASE OF SELF DEFENSE.
We gently but firmly protest against
the unwarranted reference iff a rather
spiteful nature that the Omalt Chron
icle la occasionally maxing to Orovllle,
u practice that was repeated last wees
in tiie mention of the race rqj tne oom
missionershlp between Miller and
Hershberger where it was said that
Hershberger was "going tQ. nose out
ahead by the aid of that great little
political jitney manufactured lor the
occasion by Oroville-Methow valley
politicians.” The fact, is that no poli
ticians in Orovllle had a hand in the
Hershberger campaign. It was u spon
taneous protest from about,the entire
population, as is evidenced by the vole
cast. at the lale election. Knowing how
jealous the editor u I the Chronicle in
oi any slight cast upon the people of
his bailiwick, we would enjoy reading
some of the pungent diatribes he would
pen if a commissioner should ignore
Omak as the commissioners have stu
diously ignored Orovllle in the past.
The Chronicle man has lived in Oro
\ille and is familiar with the division
ousting here that has beep a curse
to the town and a fearful drag upon
its advancement. He certainly must
and does realize that there was some
ground for complaint against the com
missioners, or the people ccfuld never
have been so closely united as they
were upon the question of the election
of a commissioner ti'om district,
Every voter who has any interest
whatever in Orovllle and the north
end of the county registered his, cr
her, protest a.t the polls against what
they considered well founded griev
ances. This single instance of loyalty
to a common cause In this place is
worthy of commendatton and not an
ungenerous slur.
And, by the way, we are becoming
tired of the prevailing disposition in
some quarters of giving Orovllle the
worst of it on all occasions. Why this
disposition prevails we know not, yet
that such is the fa< t cannot be denied.
The people of Orovllle have always
stood true to their word when given
to a neighbor. They are generous in
their patronage of celebrations or pub
lic events taking ptace In adjacent
to-wns. Nor by word or deed have they
ever thrown a straw in the way of the
progress of oilier communities. This
people have never attempted to absorb
funds for public works that belonged
to other sections. They have respond
ed generously to calls for help from
other communities, and in return have
received only rebuffs. The people of
Orovllle have long submitted patiently
without protest, but there comes a
time when even the worm will turn.
With the coming of election they felt
it necessary for self protection to
make a decided stand in favor of a
candidate who would treat them at
least with some degree of fairness
and if combination was required to
gain that end they believed the condi
tions justified that combine. In doing
so they entered the late contest with
out a single promise of reward or pun
ishment. There was no knifing one
man to aid another; no attacking one
community that another might benefit.
A single object was kept constantly in
view, and the attainment of that object
was one of the most wonderful rever
sals of sentiment evei recorded in the
county, for had not Orovllle stood by
Mi. Hershberger ho would have been
defeated by not less than 1500 ma
jority. When you come to think about
it Orovllle, that iias been held in con
siderable contempt for its passiveness
and non reslteuce against injustices,
did a pretty fair job that was entered
into single handed on behalf of a can
didate who was hardly known outside
of the precinct in which he live?
,i. F. Samson returned Monday night
from Spokane where he had been in at
tendance nt tiie meetin gof the l.astein
Washington Good Heads association.
Mr. Samson reports a very harmonious
session with a disposition prevailing
among those present to recommend iii
propriations for the main arterial state
reads upon which work has already
been done, for the purpose of complet
ing them before money is devoted to
laterals, which would seem to be the
most sensible course to pursue The
association recommended »UO.OO" for
the completion of State Hoad No. .0 n
the Okanogan valley. With that sum
Judiciously spent, not as if was i \
last year, road No. 10 should b tin
Into pretty fair condition
The cold wave of the past week was
felt all over the west, and in various
parts of Eastern Washington the ther
mometers registered below zero
BELIEVES IN THE COCNTKV.
A, W r . Boyd, who has been with the
Tvanhoe mine as superintendent of
underground work since development
first commenced on that group of
claims, was in town over Sunday on
one of hia occasional business visits.
Mr. Boyd is very much of an authority
on mining, as he has accumulated
much knowledge from years of prac
tical experience us a prospector and
operator. He has worked In and had
charge oi mines that were profitable
producers, has prospected, handled a
drill and directed the work of others.
He is familiar with treatment plants,
minerals, formations and all things
pertaining to mining, and his Judg
ment as to the general merits and pos
sibilities of a mineral bearing district
so far as apparent to the eye, is
worthy of consideration. From what
he has seen in Northern Okanogan
county Mr Boyd is convinced that
there la mineral here iu quantity and
quality to justify extensive explora
tion He declares that this is not a
poor man ’a country In the matter of
mining, but he feeT satisfied that un
der a thorough system of investigation
there are claims in this neighborhood
that can lie worked at a profit. His
I confidence is not that oi a prospector
who carries around a few samples
[taken from a small hole in the ground,
and sees millions in it, but from care
ful observation together with his ex
perience carrying on development at
tin Ivanhoe.
We have heard others during the
past score of years who had license to
express an opinion upor> the subject.
make the same general assertion. So
far with all the mining that has been
carried on in the north part of the
county, there never yet has,been an
individual, or company, commanding
sufficient means to make a thorough
test of the mineral possibilities in the
way of deep mining. It Is true that
vast sums have been recklessly and
ignorantly thrown way In mining
operations, but there is not an instance
where a man with a reputation as a
successful operator and experience in
conjunction with that reputation, has
had charge of a property with surface
merit with sufficient money at his
command to continue development un
til he could demonstrate to a finality
whether pay ore existed in the coun
try. There have been instances where
work has proceeded so far as to prove
the presence of ore both of value and
quantity, btU Just at that time thH
operator would run out of means, or
some complication would arise neces
sitating shutting down. The truth of
this statement is exemplified in the
old Judge group, in the Ruby, the Gol
den Zone, and more recently in the
Ivanhoi
Mining in northern Okanogan coun
ty is certainly in disrepute at the pres
ent time, yet such men as Mr, Boyd
whose knowledge has not been gained
through hasty and superficial examin
ation of the surface, or a few prospect
holes, have no hesitancy in declaring
that some day raining will be carried
on in this district as It has been car
ried on successfully in other parts of
the west where that industry has made
fortunes for those so engaged, and
then Okanogan count' will at last
come into its own.
AFTEH GOVERNMENT LOAN.
At a meeting of the land owners un
der the Irrigation project held in Odd
Fellows hall Wednesday afternoon, the
secretary presented a report detailing
the work done during the fiscal year,
closing October 31st. Among matteis
discussed was the desirability of or
ganizing a local loan association un
der the federal rural credit law. It was
decided to take this subject up again at
a meeting called for Saturday. Novem
bt : ■ at Orovllle Meanwhile the
Inn i owners will probably wise up on
the provisions ot the rural credit act.
The terms of Geo. I Cole and E.
Trua.v are closing as directors of the
West Okanogan Valley Irrigation dis
iric! and two successors will hive to
bo chosen, one tor a tnree year term
an I ore for a one year term. An elec
tion "ill be held on the second Tues
day m December, the 12th, to fill those
vacancies. The matter of available can
didale* will be ctmvassed at the meet
ing called for Saturday. November 25.
1 Or.M’IL MEETING.
Minutes of the regular meeting of
the tow n council of Orovllle. Washing
ton. November 12, 1916.
Present, Mayor Samson, Councilraen
Beale, Smith. Stnrreit & Friis. Minutes
of the previous meeting read and ap
proved as read Dr. Liner appeared be
fore the council to consult with that
body m regard to the handling of
schools and pubic meetings during
the continuance of measles In the town
at. I after some discus ion In regard to
tb • matt'i Di Finer was instructed
to ask parte - having measles In the
family to keep inside as much as pos
sible and that no children under the
age of 1 > years be allowed t oattend
the picture shows and that the schools
b- opened Monday and scholars in
spected by the doctor for a few days
and that Hie teachers be instructed to
send an pupils home at once that
show an- siniptonis of measles The
clerk was instructed to have six blue
prints of the town map made. On mo
tion council adjourned.
Minutes of the regular meeting of
the town council of Wash
ington. November 6. 1916
Present, Mayor Samson. Council
man Beale. Smith and Prtls, Minutes
of previous meeting read and approved
as read. The monthly report of the
town treasurer was read and placed
on tile. Motion was made and carried
that the town treasurer be instructed
to transfer $400.00 from the water
fund to current expense fund. On mo
tion the following bills were allowed
and ordered paid; E. J. Wilson salary,
$75.00; E. U. Hoose, salary and phone,
$101.21; E. A. McMahan, salary, $8.13;
Telephone Co. phone, $2.75; Okanogan
Power & Light Co. $111.25 ; Crane &
Co. supplies water works, $28.55;
Schultz & Co., freight, etc. 7.85; Ed.
Davis, scythe bolt, 25c; L. H. Pren
tice, street cleaning, 12.60. On motion
council adjourned.
E. K. HOOSE, Clerk.
TO OPEN NEXT WEEK.
The new Orovllle hospital, one of the
must compelte and elegant institutions
of the kind in any of the smaller towns
of the state will bo ready to open to
the public next week. Modern in all its
appointments, steam heated, away from
the disturbance of the business part of
me town, beautifully situated as to aur
rounding views, it will be a luxurious
haven to those who require medical or
surgical treatment, lutormailou that
opening the hospital would take place
next week reached this office only a
short time before going to press. The
establishment will be in charge of a
competent manager and corps of nur
ses, and better service could noi be
secured In any city.
FORD-LOUDON.
Saturday, November 11, at the home
of the groom's father, at Loomis, Far
ri) Ford and Miss Kuth Loudon were
united in marriage, the Rev, G. S. dea
ler officiating. Only a few of the rela
tives of the contracting parties were
present.
The parties to this matrimonial alli
ance are well known In the northern
part of the county, as the bride was
born at Loomis and the groom has
grown up in that place since childhood.
The groom Is the only son of Wm. J.
Ford, of the mercantile firm of Forde
& Ford, Loomis, and although quite
young, has already made a great suc
cess In the cattle industry. The bride
is a pretty and accomplished young la
dy. the daughter of those pioneers of
Okanogan county, Mr. and Mrs. Geo. W.
Loudon. The young people will make
their home on Mr. Ford’s ranch on the
fcßol shore of Palmer lake. A multi
tude of friends extend hearty congrat
ulations with best wishes for their fu
ture happiness and good fortune H
life.
XITKV ESCAPE.
Prosecuting Attorney Johnson, of
Okanogan was In Orovllle Friday last
on business connected with his office.
Mr. Johnson has reason for congratu
lating himself that he had no opposi
tion for the office of prosecuting at
torney. Even in that case there is no
doubt but that he would have been
reelected, for he has made an active
and efficient official, while running
his office at a minimum of coat to the
county, but voters were so erratic In
casting their ballots this year that
true worth In office seemed to have
little Influence upon the voter In mak
ing a choice and the uncertainty of
the result tor a few days was a strain
on those who had opposition, yet
finally pulled through. All that Mr.
Juhnsou escaped.
LEASE TIIE 0. K.
Fred Neal, Jack Gormorly and Tim
Griffin, the last two old and experienc
ed prospectors and miners, have taken
a lease on the O. K., mine on Kruger
mountain and started work this week
with the object of shipping as rapidly
as the ore Is extracted. The O. K . is
owned by George Blackwell of River
side, and considerable development has
been done on the property in past
years, showing up considerable ore of
good quality. The prospect certainly
warrants these men in taking hold at
this time or with their knowledge of
mining they would not do so. People
around here will watch
with a great deal of interest, for the
general belief Is that under develop
ment several properties on Kruger
mountain are sure to make paying
mines. There are a number of partially
prospected claims within a radius of a
few miles on the mountain, all of them
showing ore of good value, and it
would really seem all that is necessary
t ) make a sure enough mine is to go
down on the ledge?
FANCY BAG HALE.
The ladles of the Episcopal Guild
will hold a fancy has sale in ijje Oro
ville Investment company's office, ad
joining the Spokane Hotel, on Tuesday,
December 5, An elegant line of fancy
bags, just the thing for Christmas
presents, will be placed on sale. Tea,
coffee and cake will be served during
the day.
CORRECTION.
On the inside pages the statement is
made that W. A. Bolinger had been
elected joint senator Cat returns
show that Faulkner was elcted by a
majority of some 120 in the district.
L. L, Work, formerly president of
the First National bank of this place,
was in town Thursday Mr. Work
with his family is leaving for the At
lantic coast where be expects to en
gage in business and make his future
home—Brewster Review,
A Dtl.UiimXl £ MKUI AIMXJttT.
A crowded douse greeted the per
formers taking part la the minstrel
show given last Friday night, and a
better pleased audience has never gath
ered In the Orpheum, or any other pub
biic place in the town. From the going
up to the ringing down of the curtain
the crowd was in constant convulsions,
and no professional troupe that has
ever visited Orovllle has given more
genuine satisfaction. Those talcing part
were residents of the town, acquain
tances, friends and neighbors of those
who tilled the auditorium, and general
surprise was expressed that there waa
so much latent talent In town. Every
number on the program was vocifer
ously applauded, every Joke and antic
aioused a whirlwind of laughter, and
every song and dance had to be repeat
ed in response to the insistent demands
of the happy crowd. In past years there
have been many amateur performances
given In Orovllle, but never before one
on such an ambitious scale, nor one
that possessed so many elements of
real merit. The performance wae a
Bur prise—a most pleasing ana agree
able surprise—id an present, and coni'
aieuuatory praise was to be heard on
every side. About all the participants
have taken part iu local performances
before, but last Friday night one and
all surpassed all previous efforts on
the stage. The show was one continu*
ous hurricane of fun and oven after the
last number closed the audience clung
to their seats, reluctant to believe that
the evening s pleasure was at an end.
When the curtain rolled up there waa
displayed a half circle of performers,
seated, with some of the chorus banked
up in the roar. Six burnt cork artists
occupied the ends. Dr. D. H. Lewis. Bob
Hill and Audray McMahan manipulat
ed tlie bones, and R. Sanders Bagby.
Lawrence Dallam and Lee Christopher
fingered tambourines. A. P. Murray oc
cupied an elevated seat in Uie center as
interlocutor, a trying position that he
filled most admirably. The others on
the stage were Mrs. Lewis, Mrs. Bev
erly Powell, Mrs. R. A. Jackson, Miss
Eliza Orathwold, Miss Louise Pennan.
Miss Rutlt McCaunon, Miss Elizabeth
Graves, Messrs Berbrldge, Johnson,
Hart, Starreu and Siiverthorne.
The medley of Jokes, humorous ato
nes and patter that was part of the
grand opening, caught the audience
from the very start, arousing a whirl
wind of mirth that had no rest from
the opening number until the end. The
ttrst ealo and chqrys, "You’d Never
Know that Old Home Town of Mine,"
by Lawrence Dallam, was a decide hit,
and started the’VMla podrtda of good
things that never had a weak spot In
the list. Then followed in their order a
solo “Underneath the Stars,” by Mrs,
Beverly Powell; “Walkin’ the Dog,” by
Mrs. Lewis; “When I Leave the World
Behind," by Mr, Starrett; “Down where
the Swanee River Flows’* by Mrs. Lew
is; and "Play us a Simple Melody," by
Miss Elizabeth Graves, assisted by six
dancing young ladles, Misses Finaen,
Pannou, Grieger, Bartell, Seward and
Mrs. Peterson. Every number was ren
dered with exceptional merit and was
warmly appreciated by the delighted
(audience.
The second pan represented a roof
garden with very pretty stage Bettings,
and the entertainment that followed
was in the nature of a cabaret per
formance. Mr. Htarrett sang “When It’s
Moonlight in the Garden of Love,” the
chorus being carried by the guests sit
ting around small tables. A funny
story, "Two Black Lot's in a Vision of
Noah's Ark," Dr. Lewis and Mr, Mc-
Mahan, was a very clever numberMtnd
brought down the house. Mrs. Lewis
and Mrs. Dowell sang a duet most
charmingly. Examples of the modern
dunces were then given by two couples
Mrs.Harry Evans and Lawrance Dall
am and Mrs. C. B. Dowell and Robert
Hill. The several dances were the po
etry of motion, and by many were
considered one of the most Interesting
numbers on the program. Then Gar
land Ethel, as the lady, and Theo
dore Johnson pulled off a most com
ical burlesque on modern dancing,
which evidently touched the funny
bone, as the house was kept in a con
stant uproar while tne exhibition was
on. The performance closed with a
grand liuale, “The Midnight Cakewalk
Ball.'' and it proved to be a sidesplit
ting ending to a sidesplitting enter
tainment throughout. After the show
most of the audience remained to take
part in the dance that followed.
Much credit for the success of the
entertainment is duo to R. Handera
bugby, who makes a business of put
ting on amateur performances, and the
result of his efforts here Justifies the
statement that he is eminently quali
fied to carry out any thing In the
entertainment line he might decide to
foster. And while credit is due to the
manager those who made Ute minstrel
show a screaming success are entitled
to a full measure of praise. Mr. Bagby
took hold of the raw material and
within ten days during which time
there were only eight rehersais. he
produced an entertainment that has
never been surpassed in the town. The
participants must have done faithful
work, for they were almost letter per
fect, and the smoothness of the per
formance was not marred by a single
hitch. The orchestra made up of Mes
stv Ingham. Wilson, Bartell, Gregg,
Neal, Graves and Mrs. Ashby, is en
titled to special mention for the excel
lent music during intermissions, and
for the orchestration accompaniment
to the singers and dancers. So good
was the entire performance that the
pub'ic trusts that there may be more
than one repetition during the long
w inter months.
91.60 PER TEAK
