MIDDLEBURY, VERMONT, FWDAY, NOYIO.MDER 17, 1010.
NO. 40
VOL. LXXX.
STEiN-BLOCH
SMART CI.OTIIK8
cnjoy such a splcndid reputntion that
most dealers would be glad to scll
them. This privilcge, liowcvcr, is ac
corded to only onc dealcr in cach city
a privilegc that is our in Middle
bury. May we show them to you ?
$18.00 to $25.00
IVES & SHAMBO
Cobb Hlock
middlebury, Vermont
ira
onc
TIHOUUH'B'S
VALUS
.. Thanksgiving Linens ..
Snow wliito Linen Dmmiek nml Napkins
Heavy nll pure linun, 72 in. wide $L 00 to $1 9S per yd.
Napkins to Mutcli a 155 to ?'i 25 por iloz
Murcerized D.unask at 50c and 75o IlandKome deslgns
Napkins ?1 2,5 to 2 00 perdoz
Oood valuoa in I'uro J.inun Damask
from 50e to ijl 00 per yd.
Niipkina ranging from $1 25 to ?2 75 per doz.
IN THE WORLD OF FUR FASHiONS
Out ranking nll previoua seasone). Fura liave beeoino eBsen
tiula of the wardrobo this winter SeparaieScarfs.Separate MuiTs
nnd IVrfectly Mntched Set- of Racw-m, Opossuiu, Hudson Seal,
Black Lynx, Ited Fox, Black Fox, Black Wolf, Kitt Fox, Brown
aud Black Coney, Nalural Lynx and Nutria
Scarfn ? 25 to $20 00
Muffd 4 00 to 25 00
SetH 10 00 to 45 00
In ull tho wanted widths and kinds 42c to $1 25 per yd.
including Coney, Iludsou Seal, Mole
akin and Ermine.
BLANKET BATHROBES
In n great variety of eolora, CoUars
and Cuirs handsomely bound with
Satin. Sizes3ito46. Prices 2 75 to $0 00
Regarding our tremendous Salo of Suite, Conto nnd Dressea tliis
BBunon, wo wiali to call to your attention that thero are still many
excellent niodela to select froin
I'rices withtn the reacli of all
You Never Pay More at Dyer's
SUGCESSOIt TO F. W. DKCKWITII
MIDDLEBURY, VERMONT
"Hitch YourWagontoaStar"
was good advice, but the vvagon containing the
prices of commodities must have been hitched
to a meteor. We are retarding its progress at
presentbut it will get away from us eventually.
A lot of things at the
OLD PRICES
while they last
f. c. dyer co.
' Tlic Jtig Store "
Salisbury, Vermont.
PEABODY-WILDS.
Middlebury Young Lady Qeeomes
Orida of New York Man.
Grosso Polnto on Lako Champlain,
tho lieautiful liomo of Mr. nml Mrs.
Charles M. Swift, was tho sceno yeator
day cf tho wcddlng of MIsh Eliznboth
Platt Wllds, dnughtor of tho lato Mr.
and Mrs. Charles M. Wilils of Middlo
bury, to Mr. Robcrt Ephralm I'caboily
of Now York. TIip brido was accom
panicd by hor brothor, Mr. Porcival
WildaofNow York. Hor slstcr, Misfl
Sophlo Wilda, wns mnld of lionor and
tho bcst man wns Mr. Grosvenor rar
well of New York. Tho brido's gown
waa of white sntin nnd ailvor ombroid
ored tullo. with clustors of orango bloa
soms catching tho train. Her vcil,
which wns drnpcd in Spanisli fashion,
wns cnught ncross tho bnck by a spray
of orango blossoms. Sho woro stringa
of pcarls across the forehead and car
ried n hand bouquot of lilies of tho
vnlloy. Tho ninid of honor's costumo
wasof pink silk and white luco nnd
brown fur. The ceromony wns por
formod by Proaident John M. Thomas,
Among the guusts wero Mrs. Hobert
Pcnbody of Hoston, mothor of the
groom, Mr. nnd Mrs. Hnrry Scott and
Mr. Kodman I'caboily of Iioston, Mrs.
Wylkes Covey of Minncapolis, Mrs.
Charlos Iiliot nnd Miss Ellon Eliot of
CnmliridRo, Mnss., Mrs. Cliurlcs Walil
ron of Schenectady, N. Y., Mr. Charles
liurlingham and Mr. Iinrold lienncttof
New York, Mr. Normim Unrrower of
Fitchliurg, Mnss., and IJr. Kichard
Eustis of Cambridge, Muss.
Tho Middlebury guests incliiileil I)r.
nnd Mrs. Ezra lirainerd, Mrs. D. Mc
Gregor Means and tho Misses Elcnnor
and Mnrguerite Means, Mrs. Louis M.
Skiirand Mrs. John M. Thomas.
After the ceremony a wedding brcak
fast was servcd. Vittum's orcliestra
furnislied tnusic. Mr. and Mrs. Pea
body lef t on the evemng train for New
York, whero Mr. Peabody, who is a
Harvard graduate, is engngcd in the
shipping business.
PBItTILIZBIt CAMPAION.
FATAL HUNTING ACCIDENT.
A sad hunting nccidcnt occurred on
Wednesday morning when Basil Pipor
the 17 year old son of Mr. and Mrs.
W. G. Piper was shot and fatally
injured by the accidentnl discharge of n
gun. Young Piper in company with
throe other boya about the same uge
had planned to spund a weck dcei hunt
ing and went into camp on Tuesday
evcni.igon the mountnin ncar Daniel
Dragon's. His companions were Basil
Laque, Burton Billings, and Walter
Hammer. On Wednesday morning the
boys started out, three of the boys hav
ing rifles. Young Piper earried a shot
gun loaded with a shell containing nn
ounce ball. The greater part of the
forenoon had been spent when the acci
dent in some unnccountable way hap
pened. The ball from the gun entered
his left side passing through the lung
and coming out at the shouldcr. The
young man was at once taken to the
home of Elmer Lee and Drs. Martin and
Prentisssummoned, whodid all that was
possible to relieve his suffering. He
died at about 3 o'clocK on Thursday
morning.
UNION SERVICES.
A change in the schedule of Union
Services brings two unusually strong
preachers to Middlebury during the
month of November. Rev. George E.
Horr, D. D., who preaches at Memorial
Baptist church next Sunilny evening, is
president of Newton Theological Insti
tution, Newton.Mass. Rev. J. Douglas
Adam, who preaches at the Congrega
tional church one week later, Sunday
evening, November 2G, is professor of
Practical Theology at Hartford Theo
logical Seminary, Hartford, Conn.
These men are widely and favorably
known as able and forceful preachers
and should bo greeted here by largc
congregations. Especial thanks is due
the college uuthorities whose cordial co-
operation in the matter has been an
important factor in securing Dr. Horr
and Dr. Adam for these services.
LSohodulo of Meetlnga to Bo Held
by County Aoent Currlann.
MoHt of tho fnrmurH In Addison
County buy commorclal fortllizor oach
year. Many of thoso farmors huy It in
tho most exponslvo wny, thatiH, in
small lols for Dcccmbor pnyinent. If
thoy would pay cash, about 8 por cont
intorcst on tho valuo of the fortllizor
would bo snved, If tho farmers bouglit
in cooporntion, thoroby gettlng ahlp
monts of sovornl hundred tons, nbout
10 por cont moro intorcst would bo
savcd, This appllcs to rendy mlxcd
goods as woll aa unmixcd ohcmicnls. If
tho farmors bought chemicals and
liorne-mixed thoir fortilizcr nbout 12
por cent moro intcreflt would bo anvcd.
Tlat is, if tho farmors bought in tho
most elllciont way thoy could obtain
tho samo nmount of plant food for
about two'thirds tho coat of tho for
tilizor aBthoy buy it now.
Considoring tho fnct that about 2000
tons of commorclal fortilizcr are bought
by tho farmors of Addison county at
an nvorngo prico of $30.00 por ton
which flgures aro not fnr from right,
the farmors in Addison county aro now
pnying?00,000 forcommercial fortilizcr,
If they buy as thoy should, thoy can
savo $20,000. I)o you beliove it?
Tho county ngent will run a fortilizcr
campaign in Addison countj during the
month of Docombor. The purpose of
this campaign is to get tho farmors to
buy more plant food for tho dollar ex
lienileil" This movement is bound to
muot some opposilion froin fertilizing
agents, and all local agents are asked
to attend tho mcetings so that prices
may be compared, and so we may como
to a thorough undorstanding of what is
mi'iint to be done. This phtn to be fol
lowod in purchnsing chetnicnls is as
follows:
1. A local man will hnndlc the goods
on commission.
2. Farmers will deposit in tho local
bank enough rnonoy to cover the forti
lizer bill and the commission to the
handler.
3. A drnft will be attachcd to bill of
lading, which will rnake the goods pay
able on arrival at dostination.
1. Farmers will take the goods imme
diately on arrival of the car. Tho handler
will be at the car todistribute the goods
to oach farmer as per his order.
5. The county agent will give a mix
ing demonstration in each town where
chemicals are purchased.
Remember, this is cash business. It
is economy to sign n note nt the bank
and pay G per cent intorcst, if this is
necessary, rathet than to buy in tho old
way and pay 20 to 30 per centinterest.
The following is the schedulo of mcet
ings to be held during the month of
December, at which time the county
agent will have prices on chemicals and
will present to the farmers a more
thorough understanding of tho fertilizer
situntion. The formulao for mixtures
for tho dilferentcrops will beworked out
so that the farmers may know just
what they wish to buy.
Addison, December 4, 2 p. m.
Panton, December 4, 7:30 p. m.
So. Starksboro, December 5, 2 p. m.
Starksboro Center, December 5, 7:30
p. m.
New Haven, December G, 2 p. m.
Bristol, December G, 7 :30 p. m.
Lincoln, December 8, 7:30 p. m.
Waltham, December 11, 2 p. m.
Weybridge, December 11, 7:30 p.m.
Cornwall, December 12, 2 p. m.
Middlebury, December 12. 7:30 p. m.
Whiting, December 13, 2 p. m.
Orwell, December 13, 7:30 p. m.
Leicester, December 14, 2 p. m.
Salisbury, December 14, 7:30 p. m.
Shoreham, December 15, 2 p. m.
Bridport, December 15, 7:30 p. m.
Ferrisburg, December 18, 2 p. m.
North Ferrisburg, December 18, 7:30
p. m.
Here is is a dollar ! Do you want it?
BISSETTE BAKERY SOLD.
Mrs. I M. Taylor hns made extensivc
repairs in the Taylor block, and has
fitted up a bakery store in the sejtion
adjoining the reataurant.
This store is n-)W occupied by William
Collins, the baker, whose products have
been known to Middlebury people for
the past four years. Mr. Collins will now
conduct the bakery business, having
bought the stock formerly owned by
A. J. Bissette.
MEETING POSTPONED.
The annual meeting of the Village
Imprtwement society is postponed until
Mnrch by vote of the executive corf
mittee. The outstanding oills were all
paid November 1. Annual dues can be
handed nnytime to Mrs. J..A. Fletcher
or Mrs. John II. Stewart.
CENTURY CLUB CONCERT.
The Signor Cafarelli concert is the
second number in the Century club
course nnd will be gien nt the opera
house, the evening of November 22.
This company brings an exceptionally
fine musical equipment, including a
beautiful $1000 harp, a rare old violin,
and melodious bells.
Their music, with songs and readings,
skillfully blends the classic and the
popular, providing enjoyment for all.
Signor Cafarelli composes, and plays
many of his own selections, and each
member of his party is said to possess
the rare Italian musical temperament.
MARION CLARKE, IMPERSONA
TOR. I
Friday evening, November 24, the
comedy "Daddy Long Legs," will be
presented by Mis Clarke at the Con
gregational church, undcr the auspices
of the Missionary association.
"Daddy Long Lega" is a story that
revives one'sfaith in the swcetness of
living-, and its charm is sure to delight
the audience. Mjss Clarke is a Ver
mont girl of pleasing personalty, and
her work nppeals to all lovera of
dramaiic ait.
Reliable Remedies for
Cold Weather Ailments
If Fall Is a season of cliangcable weather. Wet fcct and ex
posure to the cotd causcs sudden attacks of jllness.
Sore Throat, Colds, Coughs, La Qrlppe,
Catarrh, Ncuralgla, Earache, Croup,
nnd many other ailments are usually causcd by such cxposure,
i The mcdicinc chest should bc storcd with reliable remedies
which will cnablc you to readily combat minor ills,
f You'll find the Rcxall Remedies most rcliablq and cffcctive,
Makc out your list and bring it in, or lct us help you in mak
ing selections.
Sheldon's Rexall Store
Ol'POSITH TIIK l'OST OFFICK
II. A. SHELDON, 1813. W. II. SHELDON, 1010.
Rubbers
Leggins
TAKEN BY STORM
But we were ready with a complete line of shoe rubbers, leg
gin rubbers, leggins, woolen sox, overshoes, ice creepers, etc.
We are carrying the B. F. Goodrich "Hipress" and "Straight
line" rubber loot-wear. The best grade on the market today.
ALSO A FULI. LINE OF
MOCCASINS SLIWERS
$2.25 to 4.50 60Ct0$2.25
F. A. BVANS s,w
SncceHHor to
. 12. Cleiuent
"THE QCJALITY SHOE STORE "
66 nisiln Strcct I'hone 32-2 itllddlcbtiry, Vt.
Shoes
Moccasins
D. S. PEASE
FURNITURE
UNDERTAKINC
The Goal of the Entire Family is the Comfortable Home.
We are striving to assist you to gain this end by offering you
furniture distinctive in quality and design at the lowest prices.
Remember that we carry the biggest stock in Addison County.
We can show you
Mattresses Ranging in Price from 3 05 to 25 00
Beds from - - - - 5 00 to 30 00.
A good assortment of Dressers and Chiffoniers in all the Pop
ular Finishes, Circassion 'Walnut, Bird's Eye Maple, Quartered
Oak, Plain Oak, Etc. Bear in mind that we also carry a
choice collection of Framed Pictures and Picture Moldings.
If you are planning to have framing done during the
Holidays, it is well to bring it in early.
I
ADDISON COUNTV'S LARGEST DEPARTHENT STORE
FUR WEATHER
Snow nnd colder weather call for furs. Wo have a fine line of these
goods that we would be pleased to show you.
Blankets and Comfortables
Do not put ofl buj ing these goods. You may have to pay more.
Rubbers and Rubber Boots
Wo have been doing a big buMiii'HS in these goods this week but our blg
lines are unbroken. Bill-Band and olher standard niakes.
Sheep-Lined Mackinaws
Sheep-Lined Corduroy Coats
Underwear for Baby and up to Grandpa
MIDDLEBURY SUPPLY CO.
The Store That Sntlsfics
La7nrowitz Block Formerly Chapman Block,
Telephone No. 52-2
Middlebury, :: Vermont
