etrti-lieejtig rtbote.
THIRTY-FIRST YEAR.
NORTH PLATTE, NEB., APRIL 4, 1916.
No. 23
MGVm
Slate 1'rohlbHon the Cure
Sprltsd and often bitter battles over
the license question are now going on
in ninny communities In Nebraska.
The experience of Lincoln In theso
campaigns has been so unpleasant that
the whole city wishes to bo froo ot
them In the future. Every" town whore
the question comes up periodically Is
Injured and weakened by the divisions
that accompany this sort of strife. The
conviction that the only permanent
cure Is to vote the entire state dry has
been growing In evory community af
Jllcted by those perenlal disturbances.
The knowledge that the failure of the
prohibitory amendment to carry next
fall will mean a resumption of tlie li
cense fight In Lincoln In loss than a
year will undoubtedly make hundreds
of votes for prohibition in UiIb city.
As the situation has developed In re
cent years, thoro Is now only one way
to tho pormnnont peace that must be
hold on this question. Lincoln Jour
nal.
Farm For Rent Inquico of A. A.
Schatz.
H. P. SHURflWAY
Republican Candidate (or
Lieutenant Governor -
Farming Wakefield, Nebr. 31 jTSi
State Senator, serving third term.
Author of the Shlimwny Law State
aid to schools teaching agriculture,
mnnual training. and domestic science.
PLATFORM.
Statewide prohibition.
Greater vocational education.
Conservation of state resources.
Municipal ownership..
Strict economy in expenditure of
state's money.
Upon this platform and his public
record, he asks your support.
' '
Ford and Dodge Brothers9 j
The two makes most prominent in the
world are falling way short
on deliveries.
We must deliver your car now out of our present
stock or you may have to wait an indefinite time.
Ford Touring $440.00
Ford Runabout $390.00
Dodge JsSST
Hendy
Dewey and Fifth
Operators (icl .More L'ny
Union Pacific telegraphers were
gi anted a wage lncreaso of about flvo
por cent, according to announcement
by General Superintendent W. II. Jcf
ers. The operators had asked for an
increase of eight per cent and for a
while rumors were circulated ot a
threatened strike. Omaha Boo.
Wclngaiid Says "liusinoss Good."
C. O. Wolngnnd says the patronage
accorded the Hotel McCabo since Us
opening has been beyond his expecta
tions. Saturday night ho was com
pelled to turn people away, all rooms
bolng full. Sunday the capacity of the
dining room was overtaxed. Our peo
ple genorally iwill be ploased to learn
that the now hotel is meeting with
such satisfying succoss. Traveling
mon speak very highly of the serviue
glvon thciai.
Increases Efficiency of Gasoline
J. T. Murphy, of tho Union Pacific
carpenter gang, says that tho company
is now placing a substance in tho gas
oline used in tho track mptor speeders
that greatly increases tho efficiency ot
the gas. AVlthout the use of this sub
stance tho speeders averaged nineteen
milos to a gallon of gas," by using it
twonty-nlno miles to the gallon Is se
cured. Two 'Ounces of the substance,
which is solid and smells like moth
balls, is used to each five gallons of
gae.
: :o: :
v ' EBusiness is Expanded
Last fall C. J. Pass built an addition
to his green houses, and this he
thought would bo sufficient to moer,
all requirements. Now ho finds condi
tions .such that another sixty-foot ad
dition is needed and this will be made
this year. Until recently Mr. Pass with
the assistance of his father and one
man took care of the business, but the
constantly Increasing, volume has has
made necessary the addition of a first
class llorist, a man who learned the
business In Germany and is an expert.
We visited the green, houses Sunday
and were, surprised, at the" Immense
area of plants and flowors In tho
houses. . 1
: :o: :-
We have the exclusive agency for
Hikell's Violet Articles. Every articlo
guaranteed.
NYAL DRUG STORE.
The Platte Valley aid society will
havo a diutreh supper and apron sale
at the Platto Valley school houso Fri
day evening, April 7th, to iwhlch" all
aro invited.
Miss Eunice Babbitt, who is of tho
teaching staff in Lincoln, arrived here
last evening to visit her parents.
F. 0. B. DETROIT.
F. 0. B. DETROIT.
& Ogier Auto Co.,
Sts. North Platte, Neb.
Is It Wet or Dry I
The Issue In todny's election Is wot
or dry; llttlo attention will bo paid to
tho candidates for councilman. Tho
dry oloment claim thoy will carry the
town by a good-sized majority, some
of the mora onthuslastlc placing tho
majotrity at 200. Tho wots say thoy
have a hard fight but if thoy carTgot
out tho vote thoy. will havo a majority
greater than last year. Personally
Tho Tribune makos no forecast; It li.'.s
pafd no nttontlon whntovor to olthcr
side of tho proposition, and oos no
kiidw anything about tho conditions.
I If tho town goes dry Tho Trlbuno will
assist all good cittzons In seeing that
j tho law is not fractured; that boot
I logging is prohibited. :
i ::o::
Hound Over to District Cowl
J. C. Clough, who was brought here
from tho Ilall county Jail last woek,
linil n linnrliii In tlin pmmtv cnitrf vnu.
' terday mornlnc and is out on hia own
recognizance for $600. Clough posod
as the brother of Mrs. J. C. Nystrom. rec"En''' and Had boon glvon a place
Who married J. C. Nystrom of doth- on a atnto tlckot. This was of Itself
onburg soveral weoks ago, to obtain siifTIciont to unite everybody In a grand
poaesskn of his farm and other prop-! demonstration, and coupled with It was
erty and it was afterward discovered tll fact tlmt r townsmniit neighbor
that she and Clough had formed thls'nnd, fr!oild hiul "con selected as tho
conspiracy and were in tho habit of oni to whom recognition was glvon. It
visiting different towns for purposes of i wnn further endorsement of tho emu
this kind. Her marriage to strom 1 (1,t,nuv f Koith Novlllo by his homo
twas the result of a matrlmoninl nd-lpoPl0- Man" oral endorsements had
vertlsomont. previously boon given and published;
::o:: l1lls supplemental endorsement while
.Merchants Jtespoud Liberally. ; none the less hearty In fact it wns
The committee appointed to solicit more vociferous was moro goneral. In
contributions for tho baso ball fair planning the reception no thought was
report that thoy havo made a partial given of tho wet or dry proposition,"
canvass of the business section nnif It was tho only evening that Mr.
that tho merchants have respondi-d ! Novlllo would be at home during the
very liberally. The canvass twill bo j campaign, thus it was necessary to
completed this week, and the commit- take ndvantago of the day, and the
tee is confident that tho collection of
articles they will have on sale will be
sufficient to create a good sized fund'
for
tho base ball association.
Tho other committees having In
cnarge preparations tor tno rair report:
goo:' progress and all say that i will
be a "hum dinger."
.01 :
No School This Wcok. I C( at tllc colirt ,10U80 ,mrk nnfl innpch
Supt Tout requests us to state that;P,i west to Locust( nortn to Pronti
the city schools will be closed all c;iat on Pront to Dowoyi B0Uth to Th,nl
week. Whether they will open next, and east to tho Neville residence. It
.uuuuay ueiiiiun upon uiu comuuon oi
mu uiaunavs wniun imiuio uiu ciosini;
necessary.
Tho morning tho schools open tings
will be displayed on the buildings
early. Watch for tho Hags.
::o::
For Sale.
One cnrlond Tennessee Jacks at thp
North Side barn. Will sell or trade for
young stock. S. L. Watson, Columha,
Tennessee. 21-4
$785
ENTHUSIASTIC JtEt'El'TIOX'IS
TKXDKHK1) KEITH .NEVILLE
The reception glvon Keith Neville,
democratic candldato for tho nomlna-
enthusiastic, the most hearty, the most
loyal, that Tho-Trlbune editor has ever
witnessed In North Platto dm Inn his
thlrty-fivo years resldonco, It was an
outpouring of the people of tho town;
republicans rubbed shoulder with dem
ocrats, tho "wot" and the "dry" ming
led together unmindful of tho battle of
ballots of tho following day; U was a
gathering of all conditions of North
Platte's citizenship all bent on ex
tending best wishes for the success
of our townsmnn. Tho reception had
been planned by republicans and dem
ocrats alike, for after thlrty-flve years
of pleading to the peoplo of tho east
part of tho state, Wcstoru Nebraska
m" nt Inst niltl for tho first time been
people of North Platto doslred to muko '
Mi demonstration that would hernld to,'
all parts of Nebraska tho fact that
North Tlatto stands as a unit bohind
.the candidacy of Keith Novlllo; and
mat all citizens attest his sterling
worth,
TUe--foaturo of this .testimonial to
Mr.'Noville was the nnrmln wlitoli fnrni.
wns about , blocks , length( nlul J
noluded tho band, lilgh school cadets,
and high school foot ..ball team, ' sccona nnu ,ourtn eslnys evenings
tho tiro motor truck' manned by about I cacu month.
a score or moro firemen in uniform, I Tho noxt mooting will bo held Tues
200 torch bearers and about sixty auto- j tluy evening, April 11th. Tho following
mobiles loaded with mnn mwi wm.m.i ' committee will bo on tho ontortalnmcnt
Thoso in nutomoblles and the torch
bearers woro provided with roman can
dles and as tlb processlsn proceeded
south on Ddwoy theso were fired off,
presenting n very pretty effect. Ar
riving at tho Novlllo resldonco tho band
rendorcd soveral selections while the
crowd shook Viands with Candidate No
vlllo and wished him success In his
campaign. Following this J. G. Bcdlor,
as chairman, introduced Geo. N. Glbb?,
M. M. Itedenbaugli nnd Ira L. Unre,
who made brief talks. Candldato No
vlllo was then Introduced, and ex.
pressed his hearty thanks to tho peo
ple, Irrespective or party affiliation,
for tho expression of their good will.
saying that tlie greatest" factor In tho
succoss of ills calmpnign was tho loy
alty of the peoplo of his homo town
to him. Following Mr. Neville's talk
hundreds again approached and shook
his hand.
The crowd 'was at all timos onthusl
astlc and everybody proclaimed that
'.Xcvllle Is all right."
-::o::
Villa a .Man of Mystery
El Paso, April 3. Francisco Villa
has again bocomo tho man of mystery.
Almost within the grasp of tho Ameri
can cavalry after the battle of Uuor-
rcro the bandit Is reported to havo
slipped through tho net closing about
him and to havo covored tho trail of
his (light. Mexican officials In Jaurez
sought Information of the brigand's
wherabouts, but tho land lines brought
no definite word.
Mexican roports hod it that Villa and
uncther band of his followers woro
ovlng on Chihuahua with tho Inten
tion of getting tho garrison of the do
'to government to revolt nnd Join
'n against tho Americans. Theso
r ports lirought horo by travelers woro
outed by Mexican Consul Garcia
While tho bandit's main command
w n scattered at tho battlo of Guerrero
li h believed horo that Villa has sev
eral largo bodies of mon disposed of
at convenient- positions on tho conti
nual divide, and that Colonel Dodd
ad his troops may como In contact with
them at any time. While tho search
for Villa continues Colonol Dodd will
also seek to destroy these armed bodies
of Vlllastas, who aro a constant menace
td the lino of Amorlcan communications,
CIl'lT AND COUNTY NEWS.
Mrs. Charles Wilson, of Choyonno,
Is expected tills wock to visit her olstor
Mrs. Harry Murrln. ,
nrn,, , ' , n , , ,t ,
1 St V00K, M
I Mrs- Howard Dolson, ot Omaha, Is
axpoetod hero this morning to remain
for several weoks.
Miss Ihuol Mlnihall, ot the Lincoln
teaching faculty, Is hero to sponti a
wcok with tho homo folks.
Misses Pajillno Unblock and Minnie
Lincoln who woro visiting in Pnxton.
enmo homo Sunday ovonlg
W. J. Tlloy loft yostorday morning
for Lincoln whoro ho will transact
business for a fow days.
Mr. and Mrs. A. M. Hrickson returned
Sunday cvoning from IConrnoy whoro
thoy niado a short visit.
Mr. and Mrs. Will Ilaldock and fam
ily wont to Sldnoy Sunday morning
to visit Mr. nnd Mrs. Jack Mann. I
A. A. Hotchklss returned Saturday
! from a visit of sovoral weoks with
friends and rolatlvos In Michigan.
F. J. ZaJIcen of Oxford, stnto game
wardon, wub the guodt of his slstor
Mrs. Of Wlllorttm for sovoral dilys and
left Wednesday.
II. V. Illlllkcr, of Denver, formerly
of this city, was horo for a short tliua
Sunday whllo onrouto to onstom
points. 1
::o::
Loyal .Mystic Legion of America.
North Platto Council No. 40 L. M. L.
A. met Saturday ovontng April 1st to
preparo for tho 20th anniversary or
tho order In North Platto.
Many of our prominent citizens, both
. n,0.n nml hvloincn; aro loyal members of
tho L. M. L. A
Officers woro oloctcd for tho en
suing year and a class -of candidates
was Introduced Into tho mysteries of
tho society. Tho officers woro Installed
bjf deputy supremo councilor John
Kennedy of Omaha. Postmaster P. II.
McEvoy and Mrs.-Anna Parker, were
reported sick and llowers were ordered
sent to their housos.
North Platto Council Loyal Mystic
LcK'on w111 moct 1,1 11,0 K- p- lmU Ul"
committee: Mesdames Graco McMJch
aol, Mortie Dick, Llzzlo M. DIonor,
Nclllo Woods, Region M. llorrod, Anna
M. Gullilaumo and Knto Frazlor.
John Kennedy will remain In the
city a fow days to complete tho cam
paign for now nienibors. Phono .'100.
FRED J. DIENER,
Sscy.
Special Price
On Live Hens this Week.
We oflcr you for your live poultry (Good Slock, Empty
Craws.) The following prices per pound.
Chickens that arc full ol feed will he docked from 3 to
5 pounds to the 100. Wc are not htiying feed at this price.
liens 13c. Slags 8c.
Old Roosters 5c. Geese 8c.
Ducks 10c. Turkeys .. 18c to 14c.
If you bring in over 100 Hens at one time (not full of
feed) we will pay you lc a pound premium on liens.
This price is good until Saturday Nighl, April 8th, unless
cancled in Friday's Issue.
North Platte Produce Co.
EARLY SEED OATS
We will have a car of choice Early Seed Oats
on track Wednesday. Also Seed Corn,BJSiberian,
and Hog Millet, Alfalfa and Sweet CloverSeed, and
the price will suit you.
H. L. PENNINGTON,
Phone 99 and Black 388.
Jacob Rosonburg, of Maxwoll, is in
tho city today, transacting business
nnd visiting friends.
Furnished rooms for housekeeping
Inqulro nt 414 west Third street, tf
The Itest quality nt is reasonable price
30,000
School
Children
In Now York f My alouo need Cllasses.
New York, Chicago nnd ninny olher
cities employ experts to oxnmlno tho
eyes of school children because very
much of (lie apparent stupidity, back
wardness in studies, difficulty in Icft.rn
liiff, nervousness and oilier physical
troubles aro duo to defective vision
which glasses will correct.
Classes are necessary In order that
many children niny have a fair chanco
in life.
Slight defects in refraction. If no
giccted, ofien result In permanent In
jury to sight nnd Jionlth.
Your can havo your child's eyes,
or your own, tested at Clintoii.s nnd
any defect in refraction Is found, secure
glasses properly llttcd to correct it.
C. S. CLINTON,
Jeweler and Optician,
The SIpi Willi tlie llig ltlng.
THE CHILD'S
CROW AS IT)
SHOULD
Sold by
Wilcox Dept. Store.
300 East Front.
Educator Shoes
smTo5r
