THE WEATHER
tm.
Overcast to-day and
IT SHINES FOR ALL
easterly
Highest temperature yesterd
Detailed weather, in-itl and mirtn
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 217.
NEW YORK, TUESDAY, APRIL 4, 1916. Copiripnf.tliie.t.- the Sun Printing and Publishing Asioclatlon.
PRICE TWO " CENTS.
-B-s-s-B-s--sT B H'
tHsWTit 13.
ALLIES DEFEND
THE SEIZURES
OF U.S. MAILS
licpl.v Upholds Slight
Control of Letters on
Bon nl Ship. .
to
SAYS GERMANY SENDS
MUNITIONS IN MAILS
Will Xnt Confiscate Bona
l'iile Correspondence Af
ter Search, Says Note.
tslttM.roN. April 3. The I'liteule
A1W icply to the American protests
;a:nt ni.nl sei.ures wan presented to
tlie Mate. Department to-day by the
British Ambassador. H upholds the
Allies' legal right lo cxoichte control
hit tn. ul on ls.ir.l ship, lliu aino us
iitcroli.itulli-o, and Justitles seizures on tho
troutid that Germany has been using the
nulls to tr.ULismlt all kind of mer
chandise, Including war contraband.
w-ilc Instances are shim with ap
pealed pi oof where Germany sought to
lio the panel is-st osteins of neutral
tuutitrics In efforts to replenish supplies
oJl needed for the prosecution of the
wai.
Tho l.'nlentv Allies take the view that
On 111.111 has simply been Imposing on
Uie tct'Hiilc.itlties of postal regulations to
u- the malls fur obviously forbidden
puipie. Tho Allies fall to see why
t.il should be vailed Jutlll.ililt- simply
Vvau-c .ontraband is labelled "panel
litis! ' befolo It Is SCtlt.
The Allien memorandum also pointu
uji thai German) iH'gau seizing mall
month ago and that no protest wu
u-clo b tho United states to Germany.
The Allies, however, ag'ivo to icfr.cili
lio.ii seizing or conllsvatlng bona lido
uii iispulidciiic, letters or despatches,
liiuvidcd tlK ate assured of their
tiiliuiiiciii--e. Uut they claim the light
w inve.itlgatiun.
Tli.' At. lib' memorandum leads:
"The lieatmcnt of postal correspon
utiau curled by sea lias been during
u.e piescut win llu- taii-a. of various
...iiiitalntli:.. It has brought about
uine confusion and sometimes called
forth cilllelsms which. In the Interests
ef international relations and neutral
luniinercc, the allied Governments think
Hlse to dispel.
r.ff-t itt tin. Wnr,
"The postal service have iiiwa.vs had
at.d fill I have before ever thing else for
a object the receiving, transportation
nd distribution of written correspon
dence or missive letters, Gradually peo
ple have come to use the same pouches
'o send printed document?, then cam
ple, valuables and tlnally. under the
tame of "parcel post,' nearly all kinds
ft merchandise by simply fulfilling cer
tain conditions of weight, volume and
packing.
"It Is equally known that by means
nf employing postal ntamiKi any closed
envelope, whatever may lie Its contents,
in weight or its volume, may tie sent
It- mall and Is treated by the postal
f 'tmltilstratinn as a letter.
"Tim fffect of tho war Upon tlilr otabi
''tilings ghes rite to the following oh
M.itlnnn: "t the time of the neeond eonfeience
The llnsuo In llift" the Oerninu 1m
r'ti.il 'iovernment pointed out that siiicelln secietary of Colgate ii Co., has lost
'he telegraph offered to the belligerents ' SL'.Oon worth of Jewelri because she left
rosin" of communication more rapid and
Fife ttiHii the post there wh no longer
ny Inlet est In ronsldeilng as formerly
I "st ii conespondences as able to con
t'ttlte atlleles of coutrahaud by analogy
r,l in impeding their rhlptr.ent by i,elx
r Hiid ionllc:itlon.
"T'ns proportion, In appearance so
pv If . having Inspired confidence In
' ii- i'oweis, they adopted this view
1'ilti' The full article of convention
Vo II of The Hague. I'.mi" stpulalej', an
leown. that henceforth postal corre
"ii'indence Is 'Inviolable' on the sea.
fill, h 'pirecls' can under 110 consld
'ration be considered as 'letters,' Vorre
I'nilt nies' or 'despatches' and It Is clear
'I'll nothing can save them from the
'r e ..f the right of s)llro control.
visit .mil eventual seizure
which belong
to the belhsereutH on the
rrt-itd to all turgors.
high seas lu
I Hen tiermnii SHnurrn,
"f'"ii friuiig Hie shiplng of letters,
ffiil.rs eueloies or other coiissitiiuenlH
'"iiii'l.il to the postal service ntid coin-
'I1 IksI.jI in the poslal bags of the
"st.i' ailiiiiulstrntloiiM of the eouutrlis
. mi ulin n the shrining Is made, the
k'1 'il liovfinmeiits called the attention
"' tlie neutral loverninents to the fol
Ifwh g . misidenitious ;
'1'ioin Decciiibei 31, 1911, to Decern
Dr :i. J ;t J r, , the, Herman or Austro
Ihirig.iilaii naval authorities have tleti
l'"fd without wauling or previous In
I'eitli.n thirteen mail boats, with the
postal bags on board coiulirj from or
suing to neutial or allied countries,
oltli'j'H caring for the Inviolability of
He ilospaicltcH and correnpondence
Milch they contained, any more than
'r the Inoffensive iiersons on board
tlicie sttamerH.
"! s not within the knowledge of
tii .iIIihI (iovernments that an)'' prot
niat.oii concerning postal torrcupon
'k'li' e hat, ever liren addreraed to the
I"'iihI (loMMiinients.
"11 the dates of Auirust 11. 17 om.i
10i;, the neutial postal nnck boats
Iris'
I N'orweirlaii I . 'Ilanlinn .rr
I.Norwcgiun), 'liernianla' (Swedish)
U'i Uieir mall sacks of all place of
"rlnln ami destination eelied on board
;') iho (ierman .naval authorities; the
jttT.N and coriespondenco were censored
tlm (lei man military authorities, as
vhoan iy the photograph herewith
utini'veii U, example (Kxhiblt 3).
.luntltlcd hr tlermanr,
"The allied (loveriimenti are of the
Philon that later on the Imperial Ger
niJn (Iineinnient, while announcing Its
"trillion no longer to practike these sels
h.is declared that these xelsures
and would bo perfectly Justified lu
c rje According to the Imperial
irrman Hosci'iinient, Convention Num
'"r 11 of the Hague treaty, 1907. not
""Ing l.Cn ratlfled by all the belllger
pt I'imcrs, would be without appllca
b'Hi. "Finally, more recently, the control
Cutillniiffl on Btcond Page,
KAISER PICKS POLISH KINO.
Said lo Ha,,- Xrlrotnl Duke l.nll-
told nf Bavaria.
Special Cable Uetpatch to Tns Sc.
HoMf, April 3. It Is reported here
that the Kaiser lias destined Duke t.ult
polil of llavurla as the future King of
loland. It In enld that the consent of
Fjmpeior Francis Joseph nf Austria
Hungary has practically been secured by
the young Duke, Who wint to Vienna fur
that iiurixw.
Duke T.ultpold is the thli.l mm of the
Into Duke Matelmlllcn-Kmmanucl. Jle
was born In the rhateau of lllcdcrslcln
near Munich on jm, no. 1S90. He In a
j-loutenaiit of the Kirn Iteglment of
llavarlan Fhlann ami In n chevalier of
the Onlcr of -if. Hnbcit.
URGES WILSON TO LEAD WAY.
I'arU I'i. per aa All llelllKrrent
Look to V. 9, to Act.
litcial Cable bttpatclt to Tub Bi n. I
I'Antn, April 3. The Tonus edltoilallvl
expresses tho oiilnlon that nulilln iini. 1
tiient In nil the neutral iMUtitrlen In ris
ing dally and beginning to dominate the
ptudent reserve of the (ioeriimeiils.
These tendencies, the paper says, are
Mill a frnll movement and will not tnke
consistency unless a firm and resolute
attitude is taken by the l'ower which
ncrveH an a Ruble for all neutrals, name
ly, the ('tilted States. Tlmt la uhv all
tho belligerents ate looklnir tnw fi rit
Washington and the Paii.Anit.rli .nti mil.
ference, ut which the prestige of the
fulled Kliiles kIcm her tin. ilmolimtliii.
influence, the paper nays.
President tt'ltnon at the present mo
ment, the Temp states, ban the power
to hasten or retard tho Insue of the
struggle. It depends on him whether
tho war enters, resolutely the new phaso
for which the world Is waiting, the pa
per concludes.
'WAR A mistake; says
MAXIMILIAN HARDEN
I)(M'HI'C (.(M'lllllll.V Is Hcnily
Oi'Smiizc the IVhcp of
Kill-ope.
to
V.fiwt fufciV iMfrA lo Tut. Si
IlKittlV. via Amtcrilam. April 3. The
.Vornrnposf announces that Dr. von
llethhuiun-Hollweg. the Imperial Chan
cellor, will make an Important speech
In the Hclohstag Wednesday on the war
and the international sltu.itlcn.
Maximilian Harden writes in
y.ukunt.
"Notwithstanding almost ountless vie
torie and despite tlie fart that our land
In flee of enemies, while our armies
occupv an area equal to the United
Kingdom, we think the war In a cruel
misfortune, a "recurrence of which must
be prevented by all jneans.
"We wish the treaties to be respected
and Che rights of the powerful ami th
weak alike never again to be Inter
fered with. Let us come to a conclusion.
The war wan a mistake, made not by
one, but by all. though not eiiually by
ill. and ou will find (terniauy ready to
01
iti-e'the peace of ICurope.
"Tlii' hriUr h.i" conic for the Kaiser
and the Chancellor to state their war
aims. Our enemies are afraid that ufter
the war (lermany will continue to arm
h-rself and prepare for other wars.
This would mean on attempt at woild
rule and would bring all those who
would sign piace with us in deadly
danger. Till" will never be. Xnhm
will remember this war with pleasure.
Let 11" end It and organiz" peace.
"To hush up the desire for piace be.
cause It would prove our weakness I"
folly. (Ierinany has learned the mys
terious ways of Providence."
HER OEMS SENT TO LAUNDRY.
In. I'.iIkhIi Oii'ln llnck
T,IIM .levvelrj.
I'nrt of
.Mic, ltii"svll Colgate, whose
husband
It over night in a pillowcase. At flist
she thought hhe had Inst the entire
17,(100 worth she put theie, but yester
day .,ut w 01 tli was recoveied.
Iist Saturday .Mr. Colgate leported
to the Second branch detective bureau
that he was sure the $7,000 worth had
been stolen from tils apartment in the
Devon Hotel, 70 West Klft'j -fifth street,
by somebody who had used a pasti key to
enter the sulle. The Jewels, he said,
were securely locked in a closet, where
Jlrs. Colgate nlways kept them.
Iist night .Mr. Colgate telephoned
I.tioif Keiittctl lit the S1.COII1I hr.Ltiell
that the jewels had not been stolen at i
all. but had been sent to the laundry
in a pillow case. He had recovered jew- ,
elry worlh JS.OOn from the laundry, but
the wlierealsiulH of the remaining U'.iiOi) ,
worth was still a mystery. Detective
Cooney was aligned to try lo wlvo the .
mystery. 1
WOMEN IN CLUB QUICK TO PAY. '
Kill llelle Old Smvv nt areleaaiirn
in $:i,000 Iti-atnurnnl Illfl.
When 400 women, owing teparalo
and distinct restaurant bills amounting
in all to $3,000, pay those bills, all but
one little $1.33, v.lthln two days of pres
entation It augurs pretty well for the
honesty of the sex, .Mrs. Joseph Grls
wold Deane, treasurer of the Women's
City Club, to whom tho bills wero paid,
says she doesn't believe any men's club
In New York can show such a clean
record,
When Mrs. Deane took office a couple
of months ago her friends warned h,.r
that it would be anything but a lied
of roses.
"Kvcn In men's rlubn the treasurer
has an awful time to lollect the bills,"
thev said.
When the name was posted of tho one
woman whose bill of $1.33 wasn't paid
tender hearted women rushed post haste
to Mrs. Deane.
"Take that name down," they cried.
The poor woman has Just had a Uiby.
How can you expect her to pay a hill?"
LOSES "MENTAL ANGUISH" SUIT.
CoHlH
for Wife Came l.atr and
Wanted llaiiiHars,
Ho
Washington, April 3. The Supreme
Court to-day In an opinion by Justice
Mclleynolds held that John Myers of
Ashevllle, N, tX, could not recover dam
ages from an express company because
of "mental, anguish" ho suffered when
the carrier failed to deliver a casket
and funeral garb ordered for his wife
until after the funeral was over. The
North Carolina courts awarded damages
for "mental anguish," but the Federal
court repudiates the ruling.
The record showed that the plaintiff
refused to accept tho roods wiien they
arrived. The undei taker took them back
and refunded the money, so that the
only around (or damages was "mental
mulsh."
HOLLAND SAID
TO EXPECT BIG
ALLIED DRIVE
Fear of Neutrality Being
Involved (iroundless,
London Hears.
THOOl'S 3IASSIN(J ON
THE DUTCH FKONTIEK
Siitci.ili.ahle Hetixtteh to This Si v.
1.0NPON. April 3. Many umlllctlug re
ports have been received heie regarding
the uneasiness which undoubtedly exists
In Holland, tine catiM-, accoiding to a
despatch from The Hague, Is the rumor
that tlie "great offensive planned by the
Allien at the Paris conference" will In
volve the neutrality of Holland.
It Is officially Mated here that nothing
has been done by the Allies which Is
responsible for the disturbed conditions
In Holland Tilde is not the slightest
intention nil the pall of tlie A'.lles of
landing In Holland, nor was Holland
discussed at the Paris lotiferetice, except
perhaps In legard to the blockade.
It Is riinldered that Cermauy Is cir
culating reports in Holland for the pill -
pose of malting mischief for the Allies.
The ;oIm .Hud's Kotterd.ini corre
Ifpondcnt In a telegram dated .vesterday
states mat tne leason tor imica iniiuaiy ,
and naval activity Is the fact that the
Germans have concentrated large masses ;
of troops ejt of the southern Hutch
fiontieis.
Within the last foitnisht all available
afrniantroopslnllelglunihavebeeii.il- 'he night repott alo irlls about n
spatched to the fighting line, but In the ! vnlu and costly ilenii.iti attack wet ot
last few days a new lev. thlfly of '' Meiie .vestetday evening, when In
vouug men. has arrived In Itrlglum. f.'ntry was hfnt forth to engage the
Manv new troJlx. have airlved at Oheut ercneh on the northern bank of the)
and several regiment have been sent to , V,"r,Kr"' !1 Ml,:'n """'i t,u' Haticourt.
n...... . .i in.. ..Musi ' llethllirotiit se ctor.
t.un 11 mi m u 1 1 1 1 ion
has also been UC-
spatched toward the sea.
oirenullirli I'ronller tlefencrn.
Holland !' precautlonarj measure In
clude a considerable cMeimon of the lc.
ICIIVIT. "II in. o. 11. ...1'. ...lvu,(
gleatejit renilevlty exists as to the
reason It Is thought that the Allies' of
fensive w.U result In a great many
Germans entering Holland, necessitating
t. I. .....1...1.I I ll inlit.1. llm.
u strong Dutch frontier army
The (ierman paper" lefer to the
"alat mlng newt." in Holland, but confess
themselves puzzled over the Dutch at
titude. They advise the people to keep
calm.
According to the .Vlruirr llvtlcr
duunrhn Co urn ut the Dutch steamship
1 1 red. 1 returning to Itotterd.un yes
terday had an experience so Important
that at preeent it Is not wise to divulge
Its nature.
statement wa Issued to-day saving
that ihe .Ministers ami neaiis or tne
j .VI ill? .11111 11.11.. 1I...I .111 iiimiviiii: . 1..1
the (Jueen.
An Indication of the public apprehen
sion was .1 small 11111 on the llauue
branch of the It.uik of the Ncthei lands
for mital money in exthange for paper.
Those taking part In the run were for
the most part money changers, who1
feared the lesutnption of the panicky
cntidilitui that pii'vailcd at the out
break of tlie war. (Internment bonds
were slightly lower lu price, and the ,
, bourse at Amsterdam aim showed a
1 slight depression. 1
I IteportH from tellable .sources Indicate
that the Hutch (loveiiiiueiit Is I i.in-
1 nlng to buy linl.Otm tons of wheat fiom
Uie I'tiiti-d Stales, lu addition to the!
usual Cii.niit) tons .1 mouth. In order ,
to nritig tli" wtie.it reserve", now prac-,
tically ehailled, to a better condilliui.
The Amsterdam llmtilrhliUnt Males
that the din-dors of the Holland-America.
Dutch I.lovil. Uiitteiil.iinniM he l.loyil .
NiMler.and, and Kov.il Dutch sleainshlii .
coiini.'ililes confen e,! 011 Stinday 1 on-
cernlng tin- route to be taken In' conic-'
mience of tho activity of Ceriuan Mib-.
marines. The dceon of the director"
was not announced. .N'cderland. Hotter,
damsclie, and Koval hutch liners will
not sail at present.
Another special meeting of the fab.
Inet was held to-day The Austrian'
.Minister untitled the Dutch lintel mucin
that no Austrian submarine wa" In the
neighborhood when tlie Tubantla was
sunk.
I 011 11 1 er Vlrnsiirca Taken.
rhr V f frn iki on Aptil 2, In refeienee
''"man roncentratlon on Dutch
fmntlers, wild- "We do not Intend to
''"" tlmt these (Ierman movements
are directed against Holland, but as It.
Ik undeniable that they have taken
I'M "r army authorities considered It'
their duty to take counter measures.
v n.ii i ierinany iinenus ny tne ('om en-
tratK.li I" very hard to say. According
to the Inspired press of Merlin no Dutch,
man feats danger from lermany, but
thinks that the only attack could come
from (licit Mrltaln or Km inc. I.ut 'the
semi-official t.nkuhinnliirr, which Is bet.
ter Informed, pi hits the following li.idlj i
hidden menace: 'We cannot accept the
notion that Holland has learned uoth
lug during the course of the win. In I
any event we in (lermxiiy look forwatd
to the development of the situation with 1
resolution.' "
The Amsterdam cm respondent of the
nll Hjpirti nttrihutcH the scare to i
flermati agents, especially two Hague i
newspapers, whlrh, he says, are known '
to he In (lermany pay.
He adds that lie h-irnn from a most
ttustworthy source that the Dutch flov.
eminent has In-eu Informed by minis,
ters abroad that there Is a possibility
of French and Kngllsh tioops breaking
the German lines In llelgluin. If thin
In done and In cas the (Ierman retreat
In as rapid as the Allies hope, a very
pressing danger confronts Holland,
namely, thai the retreating German
armies nuy seek shelter in the Dutch
territory injecting Into l.imburg to
hasten their retreat.
if the German minles reaching Hol
land allowed themselves to ho dis
armed and Interned, the correspondent
says, nothing would bn nimplcr than tn
send them to ramiw until the conclusion
of the war. Holland knows, however,
that the Germans would not allow them
selves to be Interned without resistance
If they think resistance will help their
escape, the correspondent continues. He
adds that the Dutch Government, with
the unanimous support of public opin
Ion, Is doubling lis guard on the frontier
to meet any emergency.
Hrlllsh Deny l.osn of Hie Donegal,
1.0NP0N, April 8. The Hrltlsh Ail
mlralty to-day formally denied the re
port published lu tho A'ociiiforie el
tung to the effect that a ship of the
'county class, possibly the Donegal,
struck a mine and sank in the
middle of February. The Donegal Is
a cruder ot MOO tons displacement.
-i '
FRENCH REGAIN
LOST GROUND IN
VAUX VILLAGE
Terrific Counter Attack
Drives Teutons From
New Positions.
(JKH3IANS, OUTWITTED,
HUSH INTO A TRAP
."it i i.W rat,lr lleepalrl. In Tut St.
Puns, April 3. Tlie battle for the
village of Vaii. formidable obstacle
In the 'ion ii Prime's drive against Vet
dun east of the Mouse. Is still raging
furiously. The l'letich were successful
to-day in a violent counter attack, the
first one on a large scale thus far at
tempted. In fighting of the most .ivagc char
acter, which I. (.-lid ail of last night
and throughout the d.iv, the loiinler at
tack g. lined steadily lit. til to. night the
Prencli had ree: it tired the uestein part
of the village and besides thrown the
(rvrmaiis back to the not them edge of
the Calllette wood and to the pond north
of Vatlx. All of these osltlou had been
hurriedly fortltled by the Hermann since
their capture eslerdj and tho' day
before.
Thus, a vital part of the two.mlle gain
,nillp ,. ,)lP (;rnnil, .., r(r, fmm
tm.m llv t,K. rm.h , ,p counter
atai
lierninii ttliu-k Cosllv.
ii.cmis iioni me nnii n suiirinrui 1
o.ii iiif ri.'oco o. 10 "ecieii.v ev 111 uaieo ,
, the po.tlons which funned the tlelinan'
objective, and when Hie Teuton tioops
I dashed forw.itd they were met by a hall'
of lire from the 'oiithein bank of the
'' .. .
drawn two mgh: before Krenili flank- Dontiv had wounded live person", one
Itig fire fiom ll.tliiiu oiirt alo met tho of them n oiiiiin. nope of them, how
attac!:ers, who '10111111 110 Infantry to ever, danuerousl. l"a h of the live re-
attack. ,
The 1-reni'li MTU 1,1 1 night coiiimtiiiliiue
follows
lletween So.oti" and I.helui" we
concentrated our Hie against Herman
organizations north i.f the Mols Muttes
and Mont de SapiKiieul,
In the Argonue our h tileries vio
lently bombarded the western edge
of the Mols d'Avocourt. An enemy
blockhouse was destroyed and it mu
nitions depot was blown up.
Wet of the Meiise the Germans
launched .vesterday evenifig a vlgor
oim attack between llaiicourt and
Itethlncoiirt against our position on
the northern bank of tlie Forges
stream, which bad been evacuated, our
troops having withdrawn to the south
bank lu the night or March 31 to
April 1 without the nieiny being aware
of the fart Taken by surprise under
tin' violent lire fiom our new p".
tloii" and tlie Hanking lire from lltth
liicoiirt the enemy tn)p" suffered Im
portant losse- vtlthint iiigaglng In
battle.
To.ila.v there was violent bombard
ment in tin' legion of the Hols llouril".
There was no Intaiitry action.
llasl of the Meuse our counter at
tacks developed successfully lu the
course of the day we threw the enemy
back til the northern edge of the
Itol" le la Calllette and to the pond
north of Vau;. A last i outlier at
tack, which wa" paitlcul.irly lively,
resulted in our reoocupatlou of the
wc"teni pin of the village of Vauv,
which we had evacuated
In the Woevre district theie was
Intense artillery activity In the sector
of Motllaluvllle.
I, unn erlon In l.erolll ll.
Tlie French War otlne In this after
noon's communique iiiliiiittnl that the
Hermans tMeida were able to extend
their fmnt over an aie.t of this length,
adding that licit losses wen- Inflicted
on the Teuton Infaiilrt column" as they ,
came forward In euccessltc waves.
The gains netted by the French conn
t r olTeiislve not only reduce the Ger
man extension onslileriibh but also
present a great menace to the whole
German flout in the Dnuaumoiit-Vaux
beet nr.
The afternoon statement reHirted onlv
Unit "ground had been gained" In the
Calllette wood and gave an outline of
the Flench front III Hie Douaumont
Viiuv sector. To. night's eoinmunliiue nn
tiouiiced the tccaptiirc of tin western
i.i 1 1 of the v'lll.ige of Vaux, which liull-
eates that tlie counter attack gained ill ,
intensity " Hie afternoon hours wore
on and that the Gel man leslstance
hlackeiied lonsliliralil.t.
I'ri'licli linlii llnnl of Vlcuae,
The French afternoon lominunlnuo
was as follows.
West of the .Meuse the Isimhard
meiit was continued at the villages of
llaiicourt mid Kmic.-, inn without any
action of iiifaiitt.t.
Fast of tlie Meuse tlie fighting which
went mi last night In the legion of
Douauttiont and Vau was favorable
to us. We gained ground In the Mols
dn la Calllette. our Hue rests on the
light on the pond of Vaux, then
crosses the Mols dc la Calllette, tho
northern cottier of which Is occupied
by the eneinj, and lejnltin our posi
tions lo the south and west of the
village of Douaumont.
It has been conllrined Hint the at
tacks of the enemy yesterday were
extended over a front nf three kilo
meters (uea ply two miles). They
came forward in succesnlve waves,
followed by hi till columns. The ac.
Ilvlly of our artillery and the lire
of our Infantry caused heavy losses In
the ranks of the enemy.
In tho Woevro the night parsed
ipiletly.
lu Lorraine the (lie of our aitlllery
caused llauits tu break out at l.e'n
Itemabols, west or Lelutrey. and in tho
legion nf Ancervlller, south of Ilia
inont. The reconnaissance of 'the
enemy, wWeh was iilteinplliig to reach
our positions, was icpulsed by our fire
a'l it point near Moycn.
Gl'JRMANS CLAIM GAINS.
Say Tliey Hold French I'onlllonn
From HaniMiiirt lo lli'ltilncoarl.
Dpectal fable Hetpaleh lo Tiis Sin,
Mkiiun (via 1indon), April 3. Fol
lowing Is to-day's Hertnan War Olllce
Continued on Second I'apc,
KILLS HIMSELF
IN HOME AFTER
SHOOTING FIVE
Babylon Baynian Ends Life
With Pistol Held Off Be
siegers Many Hours.
BIiOODIN(J OVEI! FINE
3IADK HLM INSANE
II.viivi.on, I,. 1, April t. KiUlpped
wl'h a revolver and an appatently Inex
haustible supply of cartridges, t.'.ipt.
William X. Donle.v. to jears old, a
bayman, luttenched In the second story'
of bin little home on the shore of Ureal
South Hay, held off .sheriff Odell, a force
of deputies, inaily all the village police
and the greater ii.it t of the local
population all d,i j esterdaj .
i Shortly after 1 o'clock this morning
the body of Capt. Donley was found In
the h.illwav on the oeculid tloor of Ills
home, uhete he had committed suicide
by blowing off the top of his head He
hail used an automatic shotgun. j
Late last night a friend of Capt. Don-'
ley nked SherllT Odell If he would tiei
mlt him to go Into the house as he was
personally aciiualnted with Donley and (
iad no fear of the Captain doing him j
(larm. Sheriff Odell consented, but said j
he would like to have srine of Ills mi ll
lo ac o:ni.ill lull. i
lliior tr'liinll. I'oiceil.
llepeated knock- on the front door) radio to t'dllimlm. X, M., April 3.
failed to get any ic-ponsc. and the d.or Thp n)llru(.r of nvt. Mfvitan i niplo.vees
was finally forced. The sherlfT was with , . ,,. , , , , .
the part.v and all pro-veiled upstairs to at the Corralitos lunch by a band of
where they thought t'.vpt. Donley might ' Villlsiai mi their retreat from C'olum
be found s they ..N.iMied th. to. of avenged Friday
the stairs one ot tlie party stumble l ove-
the Ii l of the Captain. 1 night when lu nit attack upon a party
It Is not known the i-x.n t ti'iie
at I
which Donley killed himself, but.
ic-
ordlng t Sherllf udell, 't mast have
been done some time after 1 o'clock.
reived a leg wound The officer" an.
the I.i l folic of volunteer hehsTS lie"!-
tated to storm the house becau-e, to all
.ippeaiances. Donley was lnane, and
the.r purpo-e .tr to take him alive
rather than to kill him
ll'Uly veterd.iv Donlcv II a fteiu
of auger 'threatened the members of his
own family and they lied to the home of
friends, several blocks away. He Is said I
to have declared his Intention of poison- j
lug all his relatives.
fined Alton for lli.cU Mioollnu.
Doules mriul wis unbalanced, v
uualiitani e" ay, a" a result of his arrest
and conviction last week on a charge j
of shooting duck" dumw th" clned sea
son. Fines aggiegatiiig $fl On wire as-
sesseil against hllil. Donley feared
financial ruin If forced to pa tlua money
and brooded .oiisianily
After the member of the family had
lied Donley sent for John I'luuie. j it.1
tired tire tli partltielit en: tain, and Will- i
lam Kdward Mov tie, a neighbor. Fori
several davs the bayman'" friends have J
believed that his arrest was the result I
of a plot and when the two men arrived
in hi" yard lie met them and i barged
them with having set a trap for him.
I.... .. tui. ..,..iiit..a llotilt.e t-,i!lt.l-fri
finletti- .mil uuve no LTound for suspicion
ot dementia. Then suddenly he ran to (
tlm fmnt porch an I grasped hi" ilnniile
handled shotgun ('liinie and lXnyii.i 1
IrtiM-d on him and wrested the weapon,
him and w rested the weapon
Donlcv ran Into the huiife, to
iriun mm. i"imet m m mr uuuw, m
appear In les" thai, a minute with a
revolver. He llred us -non as lie reached
the doorstep and continued lo shoot un
til the levolver was emptied. Cllllile
and Mone each was shot in the leg.
Donley, who-e pocket-, aliiarently
were mien wuri i-ariroiKt--., ieii,.iiien .inu (
w-aven tne wi'.ipou iiit-i..it-niKi-. iow.iiu
,..,v ,..r-.M Mho ventured within ramie,
Capt Tlieiiilore .1. Walts, attracted by
.1... 1,. ..i.i.en..cli,.,l unit lo receive
a wound similar lo those which Clunle
and MoyiHi had siilfeivd
My this time the entue iieighboiliood
of Hie bay front won in lenor and ''
call was -ent for the polite. A warrant
til CooHr and Pollccnian Thomas Gal
lagher vtas ordered to serve it. Gal
lagher got no fuilhrr thou the flout
gale when Donley laid him low with .1
levolver bullet
Wooihii 110lber Icllni,
Donley then lotlted 111. o the house,
but soon reappeared at a second stoty
wludiiw, revolver lu liihil He tiled at
the liouses of Ills nelghliors and two
shots slunk Mrs. Kdwln M Post
Gallagher, the policeman, meanwhll
iiiatiaged to reach another house from
which he Imped to be able to shoot
Donley, lu the arm, hut the latter kept
out of range
While policemen stood guard a tele
phone call was scut to Sherllf Odell
and District Attorney Green. odell,
with six of Ills men. ai rived In the after
noon, having driven thirtv-llvo miles
from Itivcrhead, but Donley was not to
be subdued by county ollicers any more
easily than by the village police,
All last night the demented man con
tinued to sit tit the second story window,
his revoltfr ready, while the Sheriff
and his assistants, grouped in a dark
comer, discussed plans for effecting his
capture.
The story of the alleged plot to" bring
about Donley's itrtest for duck shooting
Involved a garnet warden who, It Is as
snrted. c.ime from Hiotiklvu. beciune
friends with the hayinaii, and then sug-1
Rested a hunting expedition. Tlie bay
was frozen, ducks wero plentiful near
the shore and the two men lite, said
to have iMigged a largo number.
After that they started for the city,
Intending l dispose of their game at
good prices. 011 the way they were
met by detectives, by prearraiigeinent,
HiciMilliiR to the belief of Donley'"
friends, and the bayman was 111 rested.
Ilesldes the charge of hunting out of
season he was convicted of carrying
game from one county to another. A
lino was lmpose-1 for each duck lu his
possession.
TO REOPEN CANAL APRIL 15.
(ioethnln Will Vol llela Milpn on
iccolliil of Slldea.
ec'll fable lUnpalch lo Tnr Sis
Panama, April 3. After a i, uvful
survey of the slides in tlte Halliard cut
Miijor-Heii. (leorgo W, Clnethals this
afternoon said that the canal would be
reopened on April IS, as previously an
nounced. .
i
ft
FIRST STORY OF ROUT OF
VILLA BAND; RADIO SA YS
PURSUIT IS RELENTLESS
American Infantry to Scale
Mountains to Get
Villa.
NEGRO REGIMENT
PICKED FOK TASK
The Corralitos Massacre
Avcntred by Killing; of
Culprits.
Is
SKIRMISHES ALONG
FIIONT A HE REPORTED
Positive Denial .Made That
Col. Uano Is Aiding
Villistas.
ii. liiioiMii: ii. i.hii:t..
fprrvtt nrteitind'nt ' Tn Stv
Kifcl.ti HnAi4LAr.Ti;itH. I'lnitivi: V.svk-
1 niTiox, t'NiTFD Status
AllMV.
NE-Ut
; NfKVAS Casvs fJnvsbKs, Mexico, via
of bandits cast of San Geronlmo the
American cavalry killed a number of
Vllllsta-. Including .Manuel linen, one
of Villa's chief lieut'Hiant" and the
man said to have ntilereil the lulling
of the men nt Corrallto!..
Till" information conies from Car
ta tml-tJ sources, but I" not vouched
for by the military authorities. No
detuil" of Friday 'night'" encounter
arc available.
The American liendqtinrtcrn were
nut of lomtnunicatlon with the front
all day. (ol. Hefuglo Davlla. com
mander of the Carranzi garrl-nn ot
Nilevas t'.isas irattde". and members
of lit" staff wcic guest." of the
Amor-
ic.in general "t.iff at dinner
to-day,
Th
was another evidence of the
amity ox
-ting bttwien the two Gnv-
eminent''.
From private muii-cs vvh.cli are lea
sonablv credible it was burned tin.-, nf
tertiooti that the Atueiii'au fold's arc
vitoriui"ly purMiinc the rcninatit" of
thcaJiand of Vil.i"la- which wa" cut
to pieces by Col. I'rwln's command at
.''an (leronlmo on Wedtiesdav .
Theie have been a number ot brief
skirmishes with some of Villas scat
skirmishes with sonic
tcred band- since the light last
Wcdnesdav between Villa s personal
0.,.lir, ,,n,l tin- cut airy command of
; -,iti nf Col Dodd't. brigade.
,.o,leil if Villa lias liene-
tr.tted Into the iiiivuntallls out of le.U'li
I of the A merit an c.ivaliy. that he shall
ii i- ii... - --
.."chip, tin iicn. i'er-iinm iia-i
I ranged to have
liifantrv Male the1'""" '" 1 ninuaiiua city, at a point
mountain crags. The I w citty-tourt 11
tlflUlt-t
which is composed or tie-
. . i,p
groes, I nf
11-cil for I his vvoi l;, II
is dcclareil.
It 1" llcllll II MlltlVPl
thai Col.
Cum of Ciirranwi's forces fought
! against tin Americans with Hie VII-
i istas ncir (ittetrcto last WednosiUy.
' .'urthcrmiiie. Gen. Pershing reports
. U(,n ,..,., llt s.in Anto-
tilo that lu
sklnnlsli with a
"'"I -
nunt of the Villa baud near lkuiii
niba 011 Sunday the C.irranv.l"tiis nu
ll er t'ol. C.llln 1 1)1 ipe rti t cil with the
Ameilc.in troopv
The natives are generally surprised
at the mobility "f t lit- American troops
and at the slaving qualities of tlx; big
American cavalry horses which they
hud supposed would not be nble lo
i.cgnliati' the extremely rough countiy
over wii iii t ie operations aic in ing , , ,. , ; , ...
. 'hospital ate to be sent to Hie ilepirt-
j.-iitiilut'teil. 1ir, imcpitul ,u i'it Sam Houston.
I Tlie men and the aiiliiml" arc slaiiil-1 -j'1,,.,, ,-, ,.,,onlc eases, and lliev
. Ing tho strain wonderfully well. He-1 an- to L. ned to make loom for
I ports say that no men urn ill and that1 the new hospital cisis coming in fmm
there has been no cull for rcinniinls. Mexico el.il! lit wav of I'olninbu.-.
I , Aililltlnn.il wards aie being arranged
at the fort. Troop M's I1.111.nks have
REPORT TRAIL LOST. i""'n '"''" mv leinpoixuy nu.irters
' 1 .11'.' being creeled for hospital ue
IHn
nlil lo
Miles
lliixe I 'iiiii
Mi'iincril.
olllll
St Antonio, Tcx April 3.- Meporl
reaching hendiiiaitera to. day Indicate'
the Ions of the Villa trail and the fact
that the bunted bandit has gone south. !
At the same time it Is said unnllliially 1
here that more troop will be sept Into I
Mexico, ptesiiniably Infantry, better to
protect the line" nf couituuiili'atlon and
Insure the supplies from bauds of Vil-
lislas which at
liter south.
tneuatitig the lines fur-
The mobilization of Cart an .a Hoop
is causing considerable uneasiness in
ainiy circles, according to utiotliii.il ad
vices. It I known that several mes
sages p M'd between headiniarlers lice
mid Gen. Pershing to-day on this phase
of the Mexican trouble. It Is under
stood that Iho leports aro eiy utisatls
factory and conflicting from the Ameri
can army point of view, Heaibpiarlers
refused lo give out -anything contained
In to-day's messages.
THREE VILLI ST A RANDS.
nrloii ttiicln 'limn llxplnlned
Inalal til In I Wonndeil.
Id. Paso, April 3. Many things tend
to confirm the reports thai Villa lias
i line or more bands all working lu
different dllcctloiiN ot tin. same time.
The attacks upon Minaca and Guerrero
ai.. siippuf.cdly the work of two s.
1 1 not groups, and the presence of bandits
near Cuslhuliiuclilc on the day follow
ing tho engagement of the Seventh
WHERE IS VILLA?
IS HE HURT OR NOT?
AVILLA Ih so elusive Unit the
despatches about his where
abouts and condition are conflict
ir.i.'.
He has been reported safe in
hotly and limb within the last few
days.
lie has been reported as having
a broken lei; and a wounded hip.
He is huid to be in u seques
tered hut in the Sierra Madrcs
near Guerrero.
He is reported to be in the San
Andreas hills IicuiIIiik with a shat
tered kneo for Chihuahua, with
American troops pursuing ten
miles back.
He is reported by a statesman
in Washington as being hemmed
in that is, he has the Atluntic
Ocean on one side and the Pa
cific on the other.
The one certain thing seems to
be that he is still alive.
Cnvalry with the Villistas at Salt Gero
nlmo suggests that this Is a third bind.
ltepeated rumors from Chihuahua that
a raid by Villistas Is anticipated led
many piison.i mi the border to-day to
believe that tin; same baud that visited
Cusllinlrlaohle, augmented by new re
cruits from the San Geronlma and Minaca
massacre, are now but a short distance
west of Chihuahua.
Passengers fiom Chihuahua assert
that the Spanish tesldeiits of I'hl
huahua nty ale the only ones who
were alaimeil over the repott that Villa
Is making his way toward the city. The
Spaniard" who weie driven out of Mex
ico by Villa are said to fear the i lilef
tain morv than any other man In .Mexico,
and those who had returned to Chihua
hua are preparing to come to the border
if Villa moves toward the State capital.
Insist Illn In Wounded.
Advi.is ttceiVed by local mining men
to-day iepe.it the slatetiKtu that Amu
lean troop" arrived tit San Antonio, ten
miles north of Cuslhulrlachlc, Friday at
noon -and that Villa had gone south, and
was wounded In the knee. The news
that Villa was wounded was brought into
"Cusi" bv vv 1 gatherers who supply
the mine plants. I
Gen. l.uli. Gutieiiez, eomuiandrr of,
the Constitutional
fortes In Chihuahua,
III a mesage to Gen. Gavlra of the
Juaiez garrison to-day Insisted that
Villa was wounded In an engage incut
with Carratiza troop at Guerreio on
March 27, Ho states I.i li message to
Gavlra that his advice from Gen. Cava
zne, who survived the sucld(n Vllllsta
attack, led him to twllcve that Villa
has been conve)ed Into secret caverns
and ravines of the Kan Andres Moun
tains and that he will be found there
evcntualb. The message from Gen.
Gutierrez also state" that the Vllllsta
troops In the Gu. riero district are badly
deinoraliz d.
Gen, Gavlra wa" askid imam to-d.iv
1 regarding tlie pereistent ru.nor current
In the I'ulted States of the ilefectlon
i or G. n l.uls Hern ra and Col. ('.mo and
, he denied vigor.nH.v that there had
been any defection or that there vca
any prohabil.t of the Atneiican troop"
bating attacked liitnii under Cano
last Wediiesdav at Guerrero Instead ot
a band of Vllllsta-.
"Fiom evert sitiicc toiiies the .illlr
, illation," he snd, "that Villa Inn. been
, engaged In the Guerrero dlstilct and
I that he wa wounded "
1' An uiiusu.il minor that I going th
rounds among the mining men eslled
in 111 Paso is that Gen, lleireia wa
In "fusl" on Frld.iv ami that In bad
lint one or two men with loin. When
asked what he ptopo-ed to do be I"
said to have icplleil: "I don't know
l whether to tight Villa or the Amcri
i cans."
Aineil.aiis air.ving ft kid ('hihuahuii
on s'lindiv, howivir. ieKrted seeing
fieri era
inn in" commanil at ..121111.1.
wnere tnr trail 1 rosses from Guerrero
it. i iijiillir I ney llllglll lie mere elincr
to stop Villa should he be retreating
east or to go in ot.r the trail to at
tack Inm. It was said.
Hctlcr ( nee
for U 011 nd eil.
lek soldiers final
Wounded ami
tlie
un
fmnt 1:1 Mexico will no longer be
loaded ,,t the 1 u Station in i;i Paso
and sent to 1'ort llllss over the m, Mest
load III thv COIIIltl'V. Instead tlie Ir.ilnu
1 will be stopped at the Fort Mils." siding.
. the patients taken fmin the train thete
and tr.tnsferied onl.t a shoi t distant e
, to tllo post hn-.plt.il
1 ne new in, 111 was the ic suit of protest"
1 .ik. hum i.iimiik 1111 111. 11 on in an sorts or
weather, to be hauled tor t) v.- miles in
Jolting army ambulance". The fort
j hospital had lnen pi on, four tnotiii
J aniliul iiHcs for trati-imitiiig the wounded
and sick, but these ambulances have
Is en lost In transit
i'r-'o 1 M is now on lionlei- patrol
duty and is not 111 need of the liar,
lacks.
AGREE ON ANTI-DUMPING.
Wll.on nuts Measure In Impose
lliiinllr Inu llullen.
W.VRIM.X'UTOV. Aim! 3 ,,.,ctn.il
agieeinent on tlie lerins of the pi op, ted
iiiitl-ilumiilng legislation wlthi will be
cinlioilleil III the onmlliil- icveuue hill wa
reached to-day b Hie licsiileiit and
lleptesetitatite Ixilcliln
It will ImpoM. an aiiilitioii.il t.,1111' 011
foreign goods s. Id 111 the Fulled States
lit cheapei prices than those ptetalling
in tlie country of nilgiii, witi utitair
t omiietttlon ptinlsiiiiis applied to for
eign pixalucts sln11l.11 in those in the
law coveting the dunesii.' Munition.
The dyestiilts iiucMlon also was dis
cii"sed, but no comiUMOii vtas re. 11 lied.
BITTER ATTACK ON MERCIER.
l.ernillll I'll per lleclnren I nrdliiHl la
II Poll He III II.
Special Lablt lieivnlch in Tin: Si v.
I.o.niiiin, April 3 - The finiil.fm It r
'iiliiiio loi'chidcs an article concerning
Cardinal Menicr, the Melglati prolate,
with the following words'
"If the Cardinal icccivcs the marttr'"
cruwn lor which 110 hankers it will
hardly be placed on his head by tin.
Poie. Ho has shown lie i prepared to
Hiiirlllce Hie vital Interests of the Church
to foment his pci'Minal politics."
at
COL.
EH WIN LEADER
OF THE SQUADRON
Villistas Saved From Anni
hilation by a Quirk
Alarm.
MAIN BODY FLED
FROM AMERICANS
Villa's Forces Defeated by
the Carranistas at
Guerrero.
The
battle
which
nisr detailed account of
Mm
lu Mexico last Wednesday,
In
Col. Dodd's American cavalry
men defeated Villa'" Imnilll baud, came
to Tim Sf.v l.tt night lit a message
from Its (orrc-ponilcnt ut tho front,
George II, Clements. This lufm matlon
shows that the buttle took place in
Sim (ieriuiiino, north of fliterrcro. In
stead of in the town of (Suerrrto, ns
generally iK-llevcd. and that Villa had
not met vtlth the siicii'.-s in niiuihllal
Ing the ('arran.i garilsiin at (lurrn ro,
u" luevlotisly jvpresonteil in muhc des
patches from tlie bonier.
Mr. t'lcni' nts's despatch tomes fiom
I Cltii, I'ctshlng'" advance base by motor
truck to t'oltimbit-, N, M., and fium
Columbus to Tin: Sr.v by tvltp. It Is
tin- llrst direct message from the ft out
of th" llrst- engagement of American
troops mi Mfxltuu t-nll.
The Carrnnza claims in 11 Paso,
given elsewhere In Tim Sr.v to-day. In
which It I" stated that the Guerrero
gani-oii was not n'ltilhllutci! by Vlll.t,
an biirnr mil in Mr. Clements'." vivnl
I story from the ftont .Mr 'Icijionuw
tnessitut' follows
1'UIJ. DKSCMPTIO.X or
COL.'EUWIS'S FIGHT
illlnllla
' I ii 11 1 1 "ciillered Inlet
"iiiii 1 1 (irniipn,
i.i'.niiiii: 11. 1 i,i:vm:n r.
II. v
prrinl r,,rrr.rnnrt,nt nt Tnr St
AIHtM'Kli llvsi:. Pl SITItC I'xl'gplUu.S,
1'mti:p Stvti:s aiimv. Ni:vn ..vMn..fii-A,
Mexico. M.nih ni (by trip 1. train to Co
liimlni". Apt il 3. -The vici..t of the
American forces over Villa - har d in th
battle ,1,: San Geronimo Wednesday. I.i
which s.t Villistas w killed and
maii.i nunc tioiiniled an. I onlv tour
Atlictic.iiis sintered .asii.iltie wa.i
gained b a r-iU,iiliou nf the ,-cveiith t'av -ali.
under Col. Ilrwiii, who lias been
1 leading inn
f thtee column'., under thti
, command of Col I -odd, In pui'Miit of
Villa.
Vccorillng to 'he itp it of tu. .' n
' Gelotllmo battle made by C.,1. Doid, (!o,
1 llrwlli, who had icwlicd Ma .niil, last
, Sllliil.it, licald that Villa w 1- stiiking
I vtest fi mil Santa Maria Valle wini
Giieiieio ;is nbjectite i'ol ljrwin lu.
mediately 1 ul loo-... fiom the lui-. with
th. view of meeting Villa I fore In could
form ii Junction with H loudly foi i
Willi ll. 11 Was ! polled, Wele awaiting
I 1,1
coming in the llintiu.. litis tu t of
Guerreio. My making a for. ed march
Villa mil veiled in re ii'hiug Gun c 1
and theie got the euipii"-'' of b,- lit.
It I" believed that III ixpc.'ttd ti-t
1 'a I'm uza girrisin of the town won d
leiioimcc altegtalit e t. the de la to Got-
1 1 111 0 ill of Mexico and Ib.ck to Ins -milliard
and together tlie.t would aiiempt to
give battle to the .iptini.i. lung A met -cans.
1 11 it .i 1 1 of .1I1. 111. lolling 1 'a r 1 a ita
the garrison put up a heron il.-fiiice of
the town and 111 a iweutt hour light,
diiive .if Villa, after killing in. my of his
null, cstl1111l.il from eight,
eight, and wounding tnativ
:n tirtv-
niivv lliu oiMiileil.
I'o' lit IV l" hopid to irnve ..1 i, nu
ll 10 in lime In ingage Vnla. but 11 I ,n
lie tv. i" ihsappoiiiit il i'o- bandit leauir
hid been whipp.il ami, it tits ieioiled
bv men who said liny tow Inm fall,
nail I.i, u tairled avta.t lioni 1 1. ID I.I s.i
(..oily Wotiiiilcil that lie m.iy mui' aga ti
liad hi" men in baltlc
It vtas irioited to Co! Ii a Cat
t o leiuti int of Villa's del, at, I baud
I. id th'd soiithw 1 i.i tow. ltd M 11 1. .1 Willi-
tut giving lil 1 omnia d n t nmr, t tm-
t.i.lli to teed tlie llolses C I Kl'Win IV-
sinned tlie 11111.-.111I The m i.nli mi loi.
all Ttie-d.i.v .1 d all iilesd.i.v mglit, .tint
'at ' ..'clock Wcilnesd i morning n ached
S in 1 i. I'oiillno, whi le the !..nit. lud,
s nl tlie night 111 fan. ml s,.initv.
, It had been i'ol. I'rwin'- rilenlion t,
smpiisi' Villas men Willi tin hopo
lapttniiig Hi' won did h- i.i. . but In
that In was .1 1". . 1 1 -. 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 I lice.iipMt
n lb, l.olgl.l.l 1 ' Of t'e Ii'1' tlii'Olli
whiih Ii. w..s cninp' lied to ...intuit i i
piiisuil Col Krwin wi;uli have liee'i
able to siiipt'ise t e li. hi. lit band, so
1 irly did In icach the leiiditoiiN. hail
lot either a Irietiil.y naliV" or .1 h.ir.l
riling iiutiio.-t givin tin al mo ol t.i
Ann I leans' ,iiptin. .1 i-t ... 1
w.n'- .nhu'iic giiaid rule Into t
li .liiiits began to I in cle ni.i
hi.U"t's 111 w niiii thev h id '1
n.aue Inward tile coli.il Ic it'
I.
I ce
tee
ifi.l
llio
1111-
I bor
Wele kept. The Ann r .
uudi.it
It niel,i il life, w 111. n
1 - w a 1 mly
1 1 iniialeil to b
:i tew of t
I Is.
11 to
but a nialoiu.v
t the I, in.
. 11 treat tuwatil tlie lllll.s
I My this tune the main ho '., nf I ".vin'.e
I worn out Miuadron had lea.lied tht
It-tnelt In which the var-jimi'd wa Haht-
American Victory Won
San Geroniino. Not
Guerrero.
. v - "jt It Jl '
