T"TW ---fc-B 'TWWl ff
"-w,a"',v wliy'wjp
FIN
CI AL EDITION
NIGHT
EXTRA
NIGHT
4 EXTRA
ictumm
' c z
l
VOIffI& fflO. 174
PHILADELPHIA, TUESDAY, APRIL 4, 191G.
Corinioiiii 1010, bt tin 1'tauo Lirxits Counnt.
PBIOE ONE OEN0?
IMjropiJUlllH WJ vm.m iymmm-"'.-mjm'ii ' W .iiWMMIMWJ'i 'MS 'rMmmri m m a .maim .
t
k
F
I
r
;W;
VILLA DASHES
SOUTH AS FOE
SCOURSJIILLS
Mexican Outlaw Headed
for Parral to Join
Reyes' Force
VILLA CASUALTIES 300
Report of Wound Ruse to Scat
ter Dodd's Troops While
Bnndit Escaped
EL PASO, April i. The presence
of Pnncho Villa with n smnll hand of
his followers ill the nclRhliorhood of
Satcvo wat corroborated here today
in dispatches received by Bishop
Brown, of the lUormon colony. The
dispatches came from Juan Terraiuas,
n wealthy rancher in Chihuahua.
Tcrrniuns states that he belices
Villa is beaded for I'arrnI to which n
good road leads from Satco. Noth
ing was said of Villa being wounded.
Pancho Villa has given his Ameri
can pursuers the slip and is now ap
proximately GO miles ahead of the
chase, according to latest reports.
Dispatches, which seem to be -18
hours behind nil the movements in
Mexico, say that on Sunday he was
tit Satcvo, 50 miles south of Chihua
hua City. He is believed to bo headed
toward Parral to join his powerful
ally, Canuto Reyes.
Unofficial reports say that Villa
already has passed Parral and is
rearing the Durango state line.
The outlaw chieftain was able to
make this gain on his pursuers, it
is said, by putting out the story that
he was wounded and in hiding, caus
ing Colonel Dodd to scatter his forces
among the hills of Guerrero for de
tailed search, without making prog
ress in any paiticular direction.
Meanwhile Villa fled to the south
ward. Colonel Guitorrcz, Carranza com
mander in Chihuahua, dnsists that
A? Villa has'beon wounded and that the
Carranza forces will come Jn contact-
with him shortly.- However, Ameri
cans oh' the border have their doubts.
Reports to San Antonio state that
casualties to the Villistas so far
have totaled 300, approximately 200
of whom have been taken prisoners.
The American troops have been in
constant skirmishes with small bands
of the Villistas for several days past.
It appears Villa himself manages to
escape these encounters.
Tho War Department officially
confirmed the report of yesterday
that additional troops were s-'nt into
Mexico Sunday. They arc to strength
en the lines of communication.
VILLA HEADED TO TORKEOX
TO JOIN' HIS ALLY, REYES
BL PASO, Texas, April 4 Francisco
Villa has been compelled hy the rapid .pur
suit of American cavalry to nbandon his
plans for an attack upoh Chihuahua City.
On Sunday afternoon tho hnndlt leader,
accompanied by eight members of his per
sonal bodyguard, was In the vicinity of
b"ateo, BO miles Bouth of Chihuahua. At
that time his American pursuerH were 20
mllea behind the fleeing chieftain
It la now regarded ns certain that Villa
Is headed toward Parral. thenco possibly
to Torreon. where ho hopes to fonn a
junction with his powerful ally, Canuto
Reyes. If this Is done he Will have at
least 2000 men In his forces
This was the, news that c.une today by
courier from Casas liramles. It appeared
to be the most reliable Information re
ceived during the last three days as to
the whereabouts of Villa The same
courier reported that intermittent rilie
firing had been' hcaid for several hours
on March 31 near VA Vnlle, tho sub.baso
of the punitive expedition He said he
believed that a skirmish had followed an
attempt by a band of mounted Mexicans
to. cut the lines of communication between
CaBas Grandes and Kl Valle.
ESCAPBS CAPTURE.
Prom the story told by the courier. It
appeared that Villa had a narrow escape
Continued on I'lice Vive, Column One
THE WEATHER
Many have carelessly remarked, in these
chilly April days, how nice it must be to
chase Villa In the warm nnd sunny land
of Mexico. "Just think of those lucky lads,
riding horseback in shirt sleeves," Is the
exclamation. And then one reads of track
ing Villa through the snow! In those
mountains of Mexico conditions are not
Blmllar to those at Palm Beach You can't
tPlways go by the .latitude in Judging the
temperatures. For Instance, we had in
extreme youth Imagined Siberia perpetu
ally covered with a blanket of snow.
It was a disappointment liter to learn
of Siberian wheat fields.
FORECAST
For Philadelphia and vicinity
Cloudy and unsettled tonight with
possibly light rain; Wednesday partly
cloudy and slightly warmer; fresh
wortyteaac .tvinas
For cmMta see page 15.
3RS0NAX
51K 1NQ11SITJVB- Will the pernon who sent
a. uont finl SL ied Mr laciu'ftttiva to th
Kvrh to Leuuku ronimum ate with Itoom
HUB l aettaui airvi di onrvi
JOUND
DID CRUSHING OF TWO TOES"
GIVE MANVPPISNDICITIS?
Workman Files Claim and Compensa
tion Hoard Faces Puzzle
Can Injured toes cnuso nppendleltls?
This Is tho problem which confronts tho
Workmen's Compensation Hoard today,
following a claim petition for ilOO, to pay
for nn operation
.T 1'rn nk Knurr, of 6314 Upland street,
savs they can and did In his case His
cmploer, the Southunrk Foundry Com
pany, of Port street and Washington nvo
line, rioem't think so Ilxpert opinions
from physicians will lie called for at tho
hearing, which will he set ns soon aH the
clilm Is filed with Ileferce William B
ScOtt
Knnrr crushed two toes hy dropping a
hrnvy plorc of forging on them March 6
On March 11 he was suddenly stricken
with appendicitis and was operated upon
nt tho Osteopathic Hospital hy Dr Ira
W Diew, nn oteopath with olllces In the
Land Tltlo Building Doctor Drew today
declined tn my whethet or not (t Is pos
slide for nppnndUIUs to result fiom nn
Injured too but ndded that he will gle his
opinion If called upon to testify
ALLIED AIRMEN
BOMBARD FOUR
GERMAN CITIES
31 Machines Shell Keyem,
Essen, Terrest and
Houthulst
DROP 86 LARGE BOMBS
Conflnns Station Also Attacked
in Retaliation for Raid
on Dunkirk
LONDON. Apill I Thirty-one Allied
aeroplanes ycsteidny raided Oernian towns
In retaliation for the bombardment of
Dunkltk Sunday night hy n Zeppelin
An olllclnl statement sajH that 86 bombs
of large calibre were dropped on tho
enemy cantonments nt Kejoni, Essen. Ter
rest and Houthulst. The great Krupp gun
plant Is nt Usheii A French nlr squadron
also bombed tho station nt Conflnns v
The Zeppelin that attacked Dunkirk, the
noitherntuost town of France, and a
strongly foi tilled port' In the Strait of
Hoer, Is believed to hao been one of
till fleet that raided the southeastern part
of Scotland and the southeastern counties
of England on Sunday night.
Yesterday's British nfTlcliil communica
tion Inditatcs that battles hi the clouds
are Increasing In frequency It says:
"Yesterday ono of our nlatora shot
down a Cormnn machine In the neighbor
hood of Lens. Another aviator attacked
and droe off llvo hostile machines after
a, close epinbat wlthtwo of thcrn." , t.
Irf,,lthb Verdun district "IhVro Js "nlso
flrec6 fighting in the air The French
olllclnl statement yesterday says:
"Today numerous aerial combats were
fought with success in the region of Ver
dun Our nlntois brought down four
Gcrmnn aeroplanes; other enemy machines
took to lllght or were forced to land"
What Is looked upon as tho possible
inauguration of Zeppelin warfare on a
large scale is seen in yesterday's official
announcement from Berlin
Foi Hi- flist time the War Olllce state
ment In recounting military activities uses
the subhead, "AliMilp movements," like
"eastern thcntie" and "western theatre"
WHAT BEFELL THIS CAR?
Abandoned and Badly Battered;
Found on Springfield Avenue
What happened to a largo new touring
car before it was found abandoned on
.Springfield avenue, between 56th nnd SCth
streets shortly before 5 o'clock this morn
ing by Mounted Pollcemnn Hplecer, Is a
puzzle which the police of the GBth street
and Woodalnd nvenuo station are trying
to solve today It Is known to have ar
rived there after 3 o'clock, ns Policeman
Splcer passed tho spot at that time and
the car then was not to be seen Tho
license number is 118786, fiom this State
The car was badly battered Tho front
Is dented, the windshield nnd lamps are
broken and thero Is a bad gash at the
side It was hauled to tho 65tll street
and Woodland nvepue station District
Detectives Qulgley and Prince nre making
an Investigation
HUNTER SHOOTS FIVE;
BESIEGED; ENDS LIFE
Madman Also Tried toKill
Wife and Children at
Long Island Home
nAIU'LON. I I. April 4 Captain
William Donley, a hunter and guide, who
barricaded himself In his home after
wounding five persons, blew his head off
with a bhotgun early today. Donley's
body was found on the second lloor of his
home.
La(e jesteiday Donley drove back by
fast firing a group of friends who tried to
approach and talk to him. He watched
on all sides Whenever a head appeared
he shot at It.
Police and Sheriff established a guard
line almost a half mile from tha home
and would not let any one approach.
After dark the cordon drew close to pre
vent Donley's escape. A period of quiet
started after midnight and shortly before
dawn. Sheriff Pdell crept silently up to the
houes and broke In He found Donley's
body.
Donley's victims, whom he shot as they
were passing his home, were;
W. P Bojne( hotelkeeperj John Clunle,
Thomas Gallagher, chief of police, shot in
arm and leB Theodore Watts, shipyard
owner, and Mrs. Kdwln M. Post.
Donley is believed to have been driven
insane by brooding aver what lie thought
as a pjot Qf the neighbors to have him
arrested and punished for shooting ducks
out of season He was arrested several
dais ago, and at the tUne of his death
was awaiting trial Neighbors deny they
were persecuting him
Before barricading his home, Donley
crowded bis wife and four children into
a room and turned on the gas, locking the
door as ho went out Mrs. Donley escaped
by a cellar stairway hurried away with
he CDUuren uuu iwn teiuiucu vu nit
A He drove ner on out MS knot
tire vyen he attempted to
DUTCH FRIENDLY
TO ALL POWERS,
HAGUE ASSERTS
Recent Military Measures
Not Aimed at Any of
the Belligerents
SAID TO FEAR A DRIVE
Allies' "Feelers" Concerning
Closing of Border Re
jected, Berlin Says
LONDON, April 1. A Home wire
less message today said it lintl been
learned from Zurich thai Holland had
closed the German frontier and was
massing troops nn the German border.
The report has not been confirmed
from any other source.
THE HAflt'E, April I
Holland's diplomatic relation with nil
the belligerent countries ate rrleiully tic
folding to nil olllclnl nt itemrut mithnrl.eil
heir today
Recent mllltniy mrnsuics. It was stated
ale not connected In nnv wav with any
dlplnni itic dltllcultles between the N'cthei
lands and any of the belligerent Powers
RERUN. Apill 1
The Dutch Government, it was lepoit
ed heio todu, has refused to complv
with an Informal uspiest fiom the Allies
that It close the Holland fiontlcr to Uei
man Military measures lno been taken by
Holland ns n warning that it will resist
nny nttempt to force It to aid In the plan
to "starve out Germany" Theto Is no
longer any doubt here that the Hutch
activities weio inspired by developments
of tho allied confeieiice at I'.uls
The Allies, thus fin, have made no foi
inal demand upon Queen Wilhelinlun, It
Is reliably stated .Mlnlteis of the Al
lies nt Tho lingua npptu.ichcil the Dutch
rorcign Olllco with Infnimil repiesentn
tlons In the naturp of ' feelers " Queen
Wilhelmlnn'H answer was to summon
Parliament Into special session and can
cel leaves of absence
From several sources todas caino tho
tcport thnt the Dutch Minister of Agri
culture has ordeicd an accounting ten
dered to the Government of all available
sIolKs of grain and foodstuffs This was
considered hlghlv significant In view of
the report that the Allies would blockade
the Dutch coast If Holland refused to
shut off supplies to (icrmnuv
LONDON. April 1
The Allies are planning n great dilve
Into Germany by vvaj of Holland, ac
cording to dispatches from Dutch cities
Many conflicting reports have been re
ceived here regarding tha uncraclnejWiWhlch
undoubtedly exists, in Holland.! 'One cansei
ilXCcordlng'to a dispatch fiVrnTho' IRigUe.
f la the specific rtunor that the "great of
fensive planned bj the Allies nt the Paris
conference" will Involve tho neutralltv of
Holland
It Is officially stated hero that nothing
has be n dono by tho Allies which Is
responsl lo for tho dlstuihed conditions
In.Hollaiu'
200 PERISH IN FLAMING
KENT POWDER PLANTS
Explosions in British County
May Have Been Caused by
Zeppelin Bombs
LONDON, Apill I.
Klro that broke out Into last week in
one of tho Government powder factories
In Kent caused n numhei of explosions
resulting in approximately 200 casualties,
tho Silnlstiy of Munitions announced to
day. Tho fire wa still burning vcsteidav,
hut Is now belloved to bo under coutiol
The official statement says that the (Ire
was accidental It was (Uncovered about
noon, but spread rapidly and reached the
powder houses, terrific explosions, fol
lowing i
It Is possible thnt the fire rcpoi ted in
tho foregoing dispatch was caused by an
Incendiary bomb dropped from one of tho
Zeppelins that raided tho County of Kent
last week.
MRS. SMITH HELD
BY CORONER'S JURY
Widow of Murdered Man For
mally Accused of Firing
Fatal Shot
Mrs Hose Victoria Smith was held with
out bail today by tho Coroner's jury to
nvvalt the action of tho Grand Jury on
the charges of the murder of her hus
band, Charles Smith, with a shotgun. In
the rear of his heating shop, at H5'.'3 Ches
ter avenue, on March :S The widow is
believed to have committed the murder
while in a jealous rage over the belief that
her husband, fiom whom she had been
separated for more than u year, was
squandering the money due her, on a
weekly court order, on other women
Much testimony that was new was
brought out In the hearing today In the
dying statement of Smith, made shortly
before his death In the University Hos
pital, it was divulged that Minnie, a
9-year-old daughter, had sat on the desk
beside her father and facing the doorway
behind her father, from which the fatal
shot was fired The child was not called
to the stand According to Smith's state
ment, Minnie was the only witness to the
tragedy It was also brought out by
Coroner's Physician Wadsworth, who
made the Inquest, that the charge of shot
that was emptied into Smith's back, caus
ing his death, must have been fired from
a distance of less than 10 feet, so that
whoever fired the shot must have fctolen
up stealthily to this distance
Several witnesses who had attended
Smith right after he was found shot bald
he accused ills wife of the shooting in all
his statements.
When she was taken before Smith in
)ils cot at the hospital. Policeman Weaver
said that Smith identified his wife as the
murderess.
"Oh, dear, oh, dear." Weaver said she
cried, as she flung herself on her knees
beside ber husband, "don't put that black
spot on me
But Weaver said Smith turned hiu back
to his wife with the words "Take her
pway,
MAYOR ORDERS M'NICHOL
TO' RESUME SUBWAY WORK
UNDER THE CITY HALL
Conference With Senator Ends in In
struction to Proceed Island Station
Matter in Doubt, But Construc
tion Is Considered Assured
McNichol Asserts His Attorneys and Engineers Must
Study Unforeseen Difficulties Before Going Ahead.
Lennon May Offer Amendment to
Clear Away Doubt
Mnyor Sniitli this nftcrnoon instructed Transit Director Twining to lmve
tho Kcystono State Construction Company resume work on the Broad street
subway tinder City Hall as soon ns possible.
The announcement was made by the Mnyor after an hour's conference
with State Senator James P. JIcNichol, the head of the Keystone Company,
which holds the 91,700,000 contract for tho woik.
Neither Mayor Smith nor Scnntor McNichol said whether or not' the
island station tinder City Hall would be as planned by former Director
Taylor, but it was fceneinlly accepted as true in view of the Mayor's an
nouncement cnrlier in the day thnt his inteipretntion of the Lennon amend
ment to the municipal lonn was thnt it piovided for every line and detail
of the Taylor plan, including the City Hall station.
James E. Lennon, president of Select Council, a downtown Vare leader,
who intioduced the nmendment advancing the transit items to S57,100,000,
said just before the meeting of the Finance Committee todny that ho would
hold a conference with his colleagues nnd, if necessary, amend the measure
so that there might be no further doubt over the status of the station.
DR. GARBER WARNS
AGAINST "SCHOOL
PROGRESS LEAGUE"
Orders Teachers to Advise
Parents of Pupils That Or
ganization Has No Connec
tion With Education Board
WOMAN AGENT ACCUSED
Sicborfl .tcnchtSrn were Instated Cy Dr.
John r. Garber, Siipcrlntcnitetit of Saluipls,
today tn nflvlsa juiptls, tci-informs their
parcnts""that the School Progress fengue,
cjt 612-B14 Chestnut street, whoso stock
lias been purchased hy more thatOO
principals and teachers In dirtcrej'tparts
of tho country, was not a branch of tho
float d of Kdueatlon
This action was tattcn by Doctor Gar
ber, after lienrlng that mibFcrlptlnns for
n. monthly magazlno called School Prog
less, which Is published by the School
I'rogicss I,engu had lee", obtained on
alleged representation thnt th ltonrcl of
nclucntlon was fostering tho project. A
wnnilng was sent by Doctor Garber alto
to tho ofllco of tho School Progress
League
Parents who have subscribed for the
magazine nllege that tho canvasser told
them that the teachers of this city had
agreed to a plan to send n ninthly re
port of tho educational progress of clin
ch en attending school to the'offlecs of the
School Progress League Tho canvasser
Is also alleged to have said the Board
of Education had Indorsed the movement
The report on "educational progress,"
parents say the canvasser told them,
would appear in the monthly magazine
The usual Introduction given by the
woniiin ennvasscr. It Is alleged, was
"I am from tho Board of nducatlon "
Pi luted on the bottom of the receipt
given for payment Tor the niagazlno ap
pears the following.
"Unless jnu receive the Homo nnd
School Ilcport within 20 days from tho
above date, kindly notify us School
Progress League, 612 Chestnut street,
Philadelphia Pa "
SUBSCRIBED WITHOUT KNOWING
Mothers who subscribed said today
that they had no Idea they wore subscrib
ing for a monthly magazine when they
made pa ment. They Insist that from the
canvassers' speech they formed the Im
pression that the Board of IMucation was
behind the movement Some of the sub
scilptlons were obtained from residents
who llvo nlniobt In the shadow of the class,
rooms of tho W. S Stokley Public School,
nt 32d and Berks streets. Teachers at
tached to this school are asked dally by
their pupils for the date of the magazine
In which their "educational progress" will
be mentioned
Doctor Garber's attention to the School
Progress League was called recently by
Milton C Cooper, a district superintend
ent. In whose jurisdiction the W S Stok
ley School Is located Ills attention was
called to the School Progress League by
Mrs Katherlne C Lacey, principal of the
school For several davs she had heard
youngsters gossiping about the coming
monthly reports
It became known today that Doctor Gar
ber is conducting an Investigation Into the
connections with the School Progress
League of a man who at present holds
a position with the Board of Education
This man Is a stockholder of many shares
of the School Progress League. At one
Continued en I'aic Five, Column Ttirte
POISONED CANDY "APRIL FOOL"
Yoman Confesses Sending it to Girl
Friends of Her Son
RICHMOND, Va., April 4 Mrs Mar
garet Slpe, 55 years. old, w?s committed to
jail at Harrisonburg today pn cpnfeelng
that she had ient poisoned candy to Misa
Wily1 Kyger and her two sisters. The
candy was marked "April Foot."- It con
tained Ktrychnlne
Accused of Attack and Robbery
LANCASTER, Pa, April 4 Jack
Reese, a familiar figure in local police
courts, was arrested this morning on the
Charge Qf having enticed C T Held, of
Farkesburg to a vacant building on
Water street last night, beating him and
robbing hint of nearly J 100 and a line
gold watch. Reld had met Reese and was
betas shown the town.
ANOTIIHR McXICHOI, COXKllRC.Vr'n
Tho engineering dlillrultles to which the
cessation of work on Pebruaiy 'H was
ascribed will bo taken up later todaj at
a confuence between Majoi Smith Di
rector Twining and Senator McN'Ir-hnl
I'ndcr the Mnyoi's Intel prctatlon of the
I.eimnn resolution (King an Item of $57 -1(10,000
in the municipal loan for transit,
the work under ("Its Hall will pioceed ns
original planned, and the necessity for
nn changes In Iho contract with the Ke
stone Construction Compiny will be taken
up nt a conference between City Solicitor
Connelly nnd at unoys for tho company
ADVANTAOi: OF CITY HALL, STATION
Tho adoption of the Taylor plan for tho
location of tho great Island stutlou under
City Ilnll. with n four-tiack subway nt
that point, will permit easy transfer nt
pAssengers between the present Market
Htreet subway and the Uroad street tube
Under" the Twining plans for the slntlnn
tho'ljnssehgors would havq been forced lo
wnlk nearly two blocks to chango from
the north nnd south bound to tlm east
and west bound high-speed trains. It
was contended this would h.tvo forced
passengers to the streets and Into the sui
faco carR of the Philadelphia Hapld Tran
sit, to the great gain of that company and
tho loss o' thousands to the public
Senator McNichol said befoio work
could be resumed under City Halt it
would he necc sary to take Into consid
eration engineering or cither unforeseen
Uio'coiliracrwas Jo'" nncl'n.st "Cn ""JS
added that a confcienco between City So -
llcltor Council , iittorucjs for tho Key-
stniio State Cniistiuctloii Cnmiianj , ns
Hull (1U nilill nAll mwflitnaHii .A.tunMA-.llh
tail, i ',3, ' .7". ,"5
just how the work should proceed and
whnt obstacles would havo to bo over
come. MCNICHOL IS SATISFIHD.
"Wo havo been requested by tho Major
to resume work under City Hall." he said
"I discussed the mutter with tho Mnor.
and made it plain that If tho city Is h.itls
(iecl to go on with tho work, wo aro tatls
lled, provided that conditions are such as
will enablo us to lesumo woik to our sat
isfaction "In enso any unforot-een trouble has
arisen, obstacles Involving foundation
troubles, for Instance, we want to have a
thorough understanding as to what these
obstacles are If the city wants the woik
done all right Hut there are a number
of things wo want Ironed out befoiu wo
proceed In order that wo may know
how we stand, wo will have our engineers
make a thorough report "
The Senator explained that Director
Twining, acting under orders fiom the
Mayor, had a perfect right to order the
resumption of the work, Just as ho had a
perfect right to order the suspension
He ndded that his attoriicvs and en
gineers would meet with Twining and
city representatives In tho very near fu
ture possibly within a week to urrtve
at some deilnite plan to resume the work
Continued on I'uge Seven. Column Two
0RTYNSKY WILL VALID;
CHURCH GETS PROPERTY
Only Minor "Charitable Be
quests" May Tangle Es
tate of Bishop
Speculation among members of the
Ruthenlan Catholic Church of this city
as to the disposition pf the estate of
Bishop Stephen Soter Oitynsky, which
was believed to have been confused by
reason of the filing of the will only eight
das before the death of the bishop, on
March .'4, ended today with the announce
ment that the church property, which
was held ill Uishop Ortvnsky's name as
head of the church In America, will go
on to his successor without difficulty.
It had been believed by the church
members that the disposition of the church
properties would be tied up because
"charitable bequests" must be embodied
in a will earlier than eight dajs before
the death of the decdent It was an
nounced today, however, that the church
properties, which had been left to the sua
cessor of the Bishop, would go to him un
hindered, because they could be construed
as ''charitable bequests "
The church properties include all the
parish and church bulkllngn of th Ruth
enlan church These will be turned over
to the successor of Bishop Ortjnsky, but'
there may be some difficulty about the din
position of two minor bequests, one of
them a farm near Chesapeake City, Md ,
to the Church of St Basil the Great, as
this cornea under the head of "charitable
bequests." Unless a contest is made by
the church this property probably will lw
turned over to the normal heirs of the
Bishop. A brother Joseph Ortynsk), u
the principal beneficiary of the Biabops
personal property.
v
EXTRA!
ZEPPELINS AGAIN RAID ENGLAND;
FORTIFICATIONS ARE SHELLtfD
BERLIN, Apill 4. Zeppelins made another laid nu xhe south
cast coast of England last night, throwing explosive bombs down
upon tho fottiflcnVions of Otcat Yat mouth, the Admiralty announced
tni afternoon. The Zeppelins leturned safely, though hcavllj shelled
LODGE URGES UNIVERSAL MILITARY SERVICE
WASHINGTON, April 4 Senator Lodge, just baok from the
"piepaiedness"' luncheon with Colonel Roosevelt and Ellhu Root, to
day defined his ideas of national dcfou&c In a spirited Senate speech,
Scimtoia listened with Intiest, for they loelleved he was expressing
the vlws on which Colonel Roosevelt would wage Ills campaign. He
dcclaied for universal uiilitaiy seivicc aad training for a limited time
la the lite of evut-ft citizen.
MARCH EXPORTS FROM THIS PORT $21,000,000
nvpoits from Philadelphia durinr; the month of Mnrcli ohowed an approxi
mate value of $21,000,000, an increnso of about $14,000,000 over the value of those
cluilng Match, 1015, according to the report of tho statistician of the Board of
Commossioncrs of Navigation, mndo public today. Exports of grain for March
show nn Increase of 2,755,848 bushels over the pamo month last year; flour
showed an lncrcnw of 22.6S3.11 7 pounds, nnd coal an Increase of 13,850 tons,
Wnr enrgoca vnlueri nt $8,000,000 left this port during March.
CONNELLY AT HARRISBURG TO CLOSE ELECTRIC CASE
HAimiSBUnG, Pa, April 4. -City Solicitor Connelly, appearing beforo tho
ruhllc Service Commission todny for presentation of llnnl papers in tho Philadel
phia nicctrlo case, snltl for Major Smith that tho basis of settlement is eminently
Nitlsfnctory, thnt the rates are fnir to the city and that a refund will bo arranged.
Tho Commission adjourned immediately thereafter and -will tako up tho case later
this afternoon.
SUGAR EXPORTS GAIN 573,000,000 IN 20 MONTHS
An increnso of $73,000,000 exports of sugar from the United States In th
Mist 20 months of the Curopcnn war is shown In reports from Government
departments, mado public nt the Bourse. Tho United States Is exporting more
sugar in n month than formerly was sent out in a year. Tho increase in exports
is duo to tho heavy demands from England and France, exporters explained.
Tho total value of exported sugar since tho war began is $75,000,000. "When tho
war began, the price of sugar was 4.40 cents a pound. Today It is quoted by
Philadelphia refiners at 7 cents n pound. These prices aro wholesale, but as
retailors make no profit on sugar tho retail prices are tho same.
STORM MOVING UP COAST TOWARD PHILADELPHIA
Warning of a storm off the Atlantic coast, from tho Delaware Breakwater
to BoMon, was posted today by tho Weather Bureau, which predicted that th
storm would reach Philadelphia lato this afternoon or tonight. TJio disturbance
began lo assume deii 'o proportions off tho Virginia Capes-thls morning-, moyirnr
northward or northcai tcI. Calm northeast winds probably would assume Kale
forco along the coast by nightfall, it vvaB said, but tjie, "vYcaor Bureau doubted
It tho storm would ''amount to mucH" In tho cltyv Upht rains $md moderates
winds would bo Fhiladejphia,'s portion. It was- pxpcctcfi,
FRENCH DESTROYER CAPTURES CRIPPLED SEAPLANE
PAUIS, April 4. A German seaplane, with a broken wing, which foil into
the North Sea, has been towed into Dunkirk by a French destroyer, says a dis
patch lecelved hero today. Tho two occupants of tho seaplane wero captured.
SLAVS THREATEN REPRISALS FOR SINKING OF SHIP
PCTHOOHAD, April 4. Reprisals
j nt f?r t.e lnklng- of ttib hospital ship Portugal by a German or Turkish
1 fllll)m,irl,,c ln tn0 "lack Sea, with heavy loss of life. Tho Russian Government
I hns sent a note to tho noutial powers protesting ngalnst tho torpedoing of the
I Portugal. Tho Spanish nnd United States embassies have been requested to
I .
nrl"B th0 I"-tcst to th0 attention of Germany.
QUEEN VICTORIA OF SPAIN ILL
MADRID, April 4. Queen Victoria of Spain is seriously 111. she was com
pelled to take to her bed several days ago, but was thought to bo recovering
when she suffered a relapse. King Alfonso cancelled all his engagements today
to icmain near the sickroom.
NEGRO ATTACKS WOMAN; PURSUED; DROWNS
The body of a huge negro, who attacked a woman, accompanied by a man,
on West River Drive. Fairmount Paik, and then plunged Into the Schuylkill River
to escapo the shots of Park guards, 1b being sought today with grappling Irons
In tho liver below the Glrard avenuo bridge. Ho is believed to have drowned.
Tho nttack, which occurred last night, was frustrated by Park Guard Eugene
Miller, who pursued and grappled with the assailant, and Park Guard Harvey,
Link, who fired three shots at him beforo ho leaped Into tho river nnd disappeared.
The names of tho man and woman wore withheld
BRITISH WAR WIDOWS MAY GET HUSBANDS HERE
PITTSBURGH, April 4 Thousands of war widows of British soldiers will
bo asslbted in getting good husbands in tho United States and Canada by the
Salvation Army, In conjunction with tho Canadian Government, according to
announcement by Colonel "William Evans, in command of the Salvation Army here.
Because a great many ot the best men of Kngland havo been slain the 'widows
are without an adequate matrimonial field, Colonel Evans declares, nnd many;
must come to American shores for remarriage and livelihood. Tho Salvation Army,'
he mis. will atslst tho Canadian Government ln placing the widows In an environ
ment that will enablo them to get good husbands.
RODIN GIVES HIS ART WORKS TO FRANCE
PARIS, April 4. Auguste Rcdln, the sculptor, has executed a deed of gift to
the Government of ail his own works, art objects he has acquired and tha
famous Hotel Blron, In which they ate displayed. The building will be called the
Museo Rodin l.ereaftei. He retains the studio, but the rest of the large building
and the grounds that surtound It become public property.
BULGARIA PROMISES TO QUIT GREEK SOIL
PARIS, April 4. Greece has been notified by the Bulgarian Government that
all troops will be moved from points on Greek territory, according to a dispatch
from Athens. It is said that Bulgaria also assured Greece that she intended to
do oveiythlng possible to maintain friendly relations between the two countries.
LADY RALPH PAGET BACK FROM SERBIA
LONDON, April -1. Lady Ralph Paget has arrived at London with 54 ot
the staff of her hospital at Uskub. Lady Paget remained in Serbia, carltur for
wounded Serbian boldlers when the city of Uskub was captured, ghe was, later
detained by the Bulgars
"I haven't any brain left," declared Lady Paget when asked to talk about
her experiences. She looked thoroughly worn out, but was still an attractive,
figure in her nursing uniform.
COALITION RUMORS PERSIST IN CANADA
OTTAWA, April 4 The munitions
ical complexion ominous for Major General
and Defense. The significant feature Is
for him In the House of Commons in his
General, the Duke of Connaught, sent'
Opposition, with a view to recommending
oially denied. tut tne story persists, unere is a iceiing nere mat a geueruu
tion this year is not at all Improbable.
PANAMA CANAL TO
PANAMA, April 4.- After a careful
Major General George W Goetbsls said
IS. as previously, announced.
aro threatened hy tho Russian Govern-
graft scandal Is rapidly assuming a, polit
Sir Sam Hughes, Minister pf Militia
that none of sir Sam's friends speak:
absence. It Is said that the Gover
for Sir "Wilfred Laurler, leader of i
a coalition Government Th.13, iaj
REOPEN APRIL 15
survey of the slides ln the. i
that the canal would Is reoper.
a
11
is
4
J
i
hMJBsHiMPBiTTMinlMlra
