Site m
rt
WEATHER
MARKETS
NEW YORK CITV
Average price of cop
per for week ending
March 29, 26.50.
Arizona Tuesday rain
Southeast, warmer.
AssociateU Press Special Leased Wire Service.
VOL. 18, NO. 266.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, TUESDAY MORNING, APRIL 4, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
HIT 3K
ALLIED
II. S.
NATIONS
IKE REPLY TO
OF
1
Sir Cecil Spring-Rice Presents
joint Reply to Secretary
Lansing on Question That
Has Been Up for Months.
LETTER MAIL NOT TO ,
BE INTERFERED WITH
in Parcel!
WU1 Be
SENDS APPRECIATION.
Merchandise Sent
Post. However,
Treated as Any Other Mer
chandlse.
NEW YORK. April 3 Eliza
beth, C'JPPn of the Belgians,
lias stent a cablegram of appre
ciation to the Daughters of the
American Revolution for their
appeal to the country to give
$7,000,000 for Belgium on the
birthday of King Albert. The
day will be known as "Bel
gian flag day" and all' funds re
ceived will go to the commis
sion for relief in Belgium to
aid the 3.000.000 destitute in
Belgium.
TEUTONS TAKE REGULARSARE
TRENCHES IN
REGION OF
VERDUN
AGIST THE
NATIONAL
GUARDS
"D
VNOZIUV XIN30Hd
ANCillLLAFLtSiiuuillTDlUllllS
I
i
i
I
(By Review Leased Wire.)
WASHINGTON, April 3. The gov
ernment of the Entente allies, through
Sir Cecil SpringRice, the British am
bassador, presented to Secretary Lans
ing a joint reply nrade by the United
States against the seizing and censor
ing of neutral mails. It declares that
no legitimate letter mail has been con
fiscated nor any treaty rights violat
ed but emphatically asserted that the
allies' intention to continue searching
parcel post packages for contraband
"concealed under postal folders."
In regard to "true correspondence,"
the note says: The allied govern
ment "will continue for the present
to refrain from seizing and censoring
at sea these correspondence, letters
and dispatches, and that they will in
sure the most rapid trnsition of them
possible as soon as the benuiness of
their character is known."
The vigorous protest of the United
States against the treatment of neu
tral mails was based largely on evi
dence in the possession of the State
Department that while mails had not
always been searched at sea. neutral
..Y.;- ,,nnr hoino liVon intn Rritiull
fTr nsoection had their mails (By Review Leased Wire)
removed, detained, and otherwise in-, WASHI.VGTO.V, April3 The House
terferred with. The reply does not ( naval committee brought to an end
mention this phase of tne complaint.
i nun riPARiun id
LUI1U IILnillllU IU
ENDED BY HOUSE
IM1IITFF
nn n i ill
1 1 ri rniui i
un linn
All of the French Positions, J Senate Military Committee
South of the Forges Brook! Votes to Include National
Between Haucourt and Guard Section in the Gen
Bethincourt Captured. eral Staff in Measure.
LATTER LOSEIN OTHER ' SENATOR CHAMBERLAIN
SECTION OF SALIENT FIGHTS AMENDMENT
F-ROGRESSIVES MEET.
KANSAS CITV. April 3.J
Progrt :sives of Missouri met In
State conven'ion here today,
elected forty delegates and al
ternates to the national con
vention of the party In Chicago
and adopted resolutions fa
voring the nomination of Theo
dore Roosevelt for President
and declaring for nation-wide
prohibition.
The deb-gates to the conven
tion were instructed "to vote
first, last and all the time," for
Roosevelt.
Bandit Leader Reported On
the Road to Parral With Few
of His Trusted Followers
Positions and When Teu
tons Occupy Them a Terri-;
ble Fire is Poured on Them, j
i The French Evacuate Their , Chairman Also Warns Both
"ational Guard People and
Regular Army Officers to
Stay Away From Halls.
Secretary Daniels Ends Three
Day Statement Question
of Politics is Brought Into the
Discussion.
The protest was in the form of a
memorandum of instructions to Am
bassador Page at London. It stated
specifically that the American gov
ernment was inclined to consider that
parcel post shipments are subject to
the same treatment accorded general
mail. In regard to parcel post ship
ments, the communication says "mer
chandise shipped under the shape of
parcel post must not and shall not be
treated differently from the merchan
dise shipped in any other way."
The allied governments assert their
right to search general mail in the
following statement:
"That the inviolability of postal
correspondence, stipulated by conven
tion number 11 of The Hague Treaty.
1907. carries by no means any preju
dices to the rights of the allied gov
the
(By Review Leased Wire) i
Having straightened out their line'
l by occupying all the French positions
(north of the Forges brook, between;
Haucort and Bethincourt. northwest of
Verdun, the Germans now are engag-,
ed in shelling the region of Boureous ,'
Wood, some five miles northwest of ;
the fortress. j
East of the Meuse. around Vaux. !
there has been considerable fighting!
between the French and Germans, in i
which the French were victorious in i
driving back the Teutons to the north
ern outskirt of the Caillenie wood, and '.
in reoccupying the western part of the)'
village of Vaux. which they had pre- J
viously evacuated. I
The occupation by the Germans of '
the Haucourt-Betbincourt front follow-
ed a. vigorous attack in which the Get- j
mans met no foe. the French having i
evacuated their positions at night I
today its prolonged hearing on
1916 naval appropriation bill.
Scrota ry Daniels closed a thr.ee day
statement before the committee with
a final appeal in support of the Ad
ministration's five year building pro
gram. A sub committee will begin
the measure, it became known, to pro
vide six capital ships, two dread- south of the Forges brook and at Beth I
naughts, and four battle cruisers, as a j incourt. the French poured a direct'
compromise between the recommenda j and flanking fire into the attacking1
tions of the Secretary and of the na- Germans, who suffered heavy casual-1
val board. i ties
without the Germans observing the j
movement.. From their new positions i
(By Review Leased Wire)
Day in Congress.
SENATE: ,
Met at noon.
Resumed debate on the armv
till.
Judiciary committee post por.nl
until Tuesday consideration of
Brandeis nomination.
HOUSE:
Met at noor,.
Miscellaneous bills requiring un
animous consent were considered.
Secretary Daniels again discussed '
national defense before the naval
committee.
Brig. Gen. Crozier, chief of
ordnance, testified before the
military committee.
Representative Borland, Mis
souri, and Doolittle. Kansas, urg
ed investigation of packing houses
befoer judiciary committee.
SENATE:
Recessed at 5:20 p. ni. to noon
Tuesdav.
HOUSE:
Adjourued at 5:l"f to 11 a. m.
Tuesday.
cokItWs
! MAR nv II P
nun ni n
imu ui Ui Ui
FROM GEN.
GANO
WASHINGTON. April 3. Over a
' Villa nrtnv omVial were
Mr. Daniels parried all efforts to-1 Artiiery duels between the Germans i vigorous objection by Chairman Cham-J tnat the Carranza columns
day to get from him a statement as to
the relative place among naval pow
ers the United States should occupy.
He said the five year program he had
mapped out would not put the coun
try in second place, in his judgment,
and that the present Congress could
not be asked to make up for the defi
ciencies of 20 years past. At the
Pershing Reports that De Fac
I to Troops Actively Engaged
Part of Bandit Band. Doubt
Dispelled by Information.
(By Review Leased Wire)
WASHINGTON. April 3. Evidence
of cooperation by Carranza troops
with the American forces bunting
Villa, apparently disposing finally the
rumors that Col. Cano and his com
mand had deserted to Villa, came to
the War Department late today from
General Pershing. He reported an en
gagement on March 29. presumably
near Guerrero, between Cano's troops
and one of the bands into which Col.
Dodd scattered the main Villa force.
I As this clash. In which Manuel
f Baca, leader of the outlaws. Is said
; to have been killed, occurred on the
I same day that Col. Dodd struck the
convinced
were ac-
"The Fox" is Also Said to be Unw'ounded and Has Only
Thrown Out Repo.cs of His Injury to Misinform Ameri
can Soldiers. U. S. Troops Are Being Pushed, However,
in His Wake, and Are Far From the Base in U. S.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
SAN ANTONIO, April 3. The belief General Bell to reach an agreement.
armv headouarters that Villn had ne "' placing in service or
j escaped from the region in which Gen- "'ore motor trucks alleviated lempor-
eral Pershing" cavalry columns arei r,l suppo ing situation. However.
perating became a certainly by the anJ General Pershing reported today
close of the day. No report from ilex-. that motor trucks now are delivering
ico stated that he had disappeared, but Mipplies to a point south of NaniiquI
J all information secured indicated that P- almost 2t0 miles from the border.
), ,nt i General Pershing also reported that
General Pershing's report, received j n found grain of an inferior grade
!afte noon, contained the news that at:'or the horses ami mules, but grass is
least a par, of the dispersed Villa scarce and the need for hay is press-
i force that was driven from Guerrero . ln
March 29 still was moving in the dis- The aeroplanes are being used for
' . - . . . . i i ..... lrnniniiinifl inn luilmon 1 1 .. I'nlnni.
inci nonneasi mi inai piaue. uui nu
mention of Villa's whereabouts was ' Dubian and the front, and that meant
made. The report was dated yester- will be supplemented by a wagon
day. Six columns at cavalry were yet 'wireless set that bad been sent tor
riding" in the hills and plains in that ard lo t 'be advanced bases.
section while scouts were endeavoring j
to pick up the trail of the scattered! VILLA AT SATEVO
bands, as well as that of their fugitive. KL PASO. April 3. Francisco Villa.
unwounded and accompanied by only
eight men. was at Satevo. DO miles
i south of Chihuahua City, two days ago
according to information received here
chief.
One force of Villa's men, estimated :
at 100, commanded by Col. Beltram.
was located near Bacineva. about 2a
i i lud nnrthaDul if f2iiirm anil in- i
formation was' gathered that indicated odHy Tom Mexican sources which.
Ihuf rt tho fnnr nr v hnnrirurt ctill -- -
were In that region. No reference was ;
usually reliable in tbw
past. If this information is correct it.
midoinJhil report of ftnT encounter I "'"
that was mentioned in press dispatch-1 bandit hi'f "eaded toward Parral
e (rm the front I IM ' fading his American pursuers
- -- - - i
Information gathered from sources!
and confirmed by General Pershing in
dicated that the intelligence officers;
of the punitive force were having to j
contend with difficulties created by the
receipt of misinformation liberally
supplied in districts which villa or:
his followers had passed.
, by at least sixty miles. The nearest
point to Satevo which the American
! troops are known to have reached is
: Su Anlonio, sixty miles to the north-
! west.
The rouie. said to have been taken
, by Villa, is one wilh which he is thor
oughly familiar and which, indeed, ia
General Pershing also reported that!k,,!n P'ons as -Pancho.
the difficulty in securing reliable " "m Guerrero it l-ads across
guides. His statement that it had h "'ntal d.vide through U,.
Iliichiniba pass info a broad
enrments to visit and if need be to close of the European war he said
stop and seize the goods which are
falsely deposited in the covers, envel
ops of letters, contained in the mail
sacks." The text of the allies' note made
public ty the State Department, was
in French. It is about 2.000 words
long, and opens with the statement
that the "treatment of personal cor
respondence has been durign the pres
ent war, the cause of various uncer
tainties, and that the allied govern
ments think it wise to dispel criticism
of their course.
"At the time of the escond '"anfpr-
ence at The Haeue in 1907." thei
statement says,
he believed a great opportunity would
come for disarmament and with a
strong building program, tiie I'uited
States would be in a better position
to urge that movement successful than
if its fleet were weak.
Representative Butler of Pennsyl
vania assailed the secretary's recom
mendation for a government projectile
factory. He asserted the specifica
tion for armor piercing shells were so
high, that tehy could not be made and
that specfications of navy 14-inch guns
and other material had been revealed
during Mr. Daniels' administration to
the Russian and German governments.
Rear Admiral
.v r-rmn tninerlal i He suggested that
government pointed out that since the f"8?- f ordnance be asked
f:w,, f-H , the hellieerents to vrodnce a letter to the Krupp Co..
of Germany
telegraph offered to the belligerents
means of communication more rapid
and safe than the post, there was no
longer any interest in considering, as
formerly, postal correspondence, as
able to constitute articles of. contra
band by analogy and in impeding their
shin-nent by seizure, snd confiscation.
"This nrooosition, in annearauce so
pacific, having ben inspired by pow
ers, they adopted this vtew point. The
prticl" of the convention No. 11 of
The Hague. ,1907. ' stioulates. as it
kno-vn, that henceforth postal corres
pondence is inviolably on the seas.
"A first observation must be made
concerning the parcel post.
"The sendine of any merchandise
by parcel nost is a wav of fhipnine
and the transportation same to shin
ntne and transportation rv means oT
shinning bills or bills of ladinc. with
the difMr"ice tmt this transnortation
is nidertaVen by postal ervice.
"Jnch narcels i-an nnder no consid
era'lon he considered as letter", cor
resnnp'lence. or disnfltches. and H Is
clear that nothing can save them from
the erercise of right to visit and
eventual seizure which belone to
belMgerenfs on the high seas in re-
and Russians continue on the eastern j berlain. of the Military Committee, j lively cooperating with the Americans,
front. An attack by the Germans a-, the Senate todsv 35 to 30 adoDteil ' "This seems to dispose, finally, of
gainst the bridgehead at Isukull was , ,,, ,.. I 'he rumor of disloyalty on the part
repulsed hy the Russians. The usual !
KnniKarf)nimtta o in nri irnapu n tliii
Austro-ltalian line. Constantinople re
ports that the Turks, strongly reinforc
ed, have checked the Russian offensive
in the Caucasus region and that the
Ottoman forces have made advances
in the Tiehoruk valley. Petrograd,
rgan-l , ,, , - ... r ..appeared well founded.
iof Col.. Cano. Secretary Bakes said . . ,.. u
nurd', r i . . . n i -1 Which way ilia has
-ul,ru in a formal statement. Previous re-;, . .
-!., . , j ...... largely a question for .
nffW-lnltt to ilnnht I
I 1115 1 u u i n ill ri
i out at General Funston's headquarters
jthe plnn to amend the army reor
i ization bill creating a national gua
Fection of the general staff. Whe.i . ports had caused
recess was taken today the chair . i:;n ' Cano's loyalty, and General Pershing's
and other members of the coi.nuitte,' ! difsna,.lh was ""' ith ,'a, saf-
fighting hard against a second amend-; The fa",.t that tnree davi, elapsed I 'P8 uW resume
nient championed by Senator Cum-1 after the 48 hour old report of Col.
however, asserts that the Russians mins and Senator Lee of Maryland, ; Dodd s engagement before news came
have taken a heavily fortified Turkish ' which would eliminate the provision, of the Cano fight, renewed hopes that
position and south have captured a for such a section. j important subsequent engagements
Turkish detachment and dispersed1 Senator Chamberlain charged, dur-ibad not yet been reported to head
Turkish cavalry detachments. : ing the debate, that pernicious activl-j quarters.
In Arabia, according to Constanti- ty on the part of officers or both thei That some supplies and forage for
nople, the British attacked by Shtek ' national guard and the regular army j the cavalry, even if of poor quality
Osman, have been driven from fort i-: threatened to undo the months of I were being obtained "off the country"
Bed positions with heavy casualties ! serious work by the committee and ; by General Pershing's forces, was an-
and forced to retreat. This is report-i he threatened that miless the ariiiyOtner encouraging teature oi me ui
ed bv the Turkish office. It was on . officers ceased attempting to influence , este report. The general
been reported to him that Col. Cano
bad engaged a Villa force in a fiuht
some days ago served to quiet, some-
what lh. fuap that ha.l . riuun Kara
that Cano had revolted, a report that ""in8
rell founded. uWn M.e.o .o
valley
which runs east to San Andres, Villa's
old headquarters, then south lo Santa
. Ysabel. the scene of Villa's r;asa re
and then
Parral.
The mstn who hrrmi-hr lh. uinrv nf
gone is now ...... . . . ... " ' '
eneral Persh-1 ' iven
It was pointed, accourt oi tne Danuit s
Minurnii.. .ItU Ulu VI I Hil4liltKl.
thnt h- foil T.i.V-,l .. H. ' " " imiH'ssime v, ,ril-
I '.t . ,'. , tication his own' credibiliy is vouched
ine cnase oi u . . , - .
In, Kv , I. I ............ I. . . i ..... . . .
K.nl ih. ..ri..r .1.1. St ra'iurw Ulfu
vnuuu ii i v iuh i ii i i it.t , iiiiii'. . -. .. . , , .....
. , . , . , , ..here wno have employed him fur sev-
pointed out that the second phase of , v 3
the punitive expeditions work will be ,
far more difficult than the first. !'n' vh! ",.d- b." R."r kM
The topography of the country, south i f"r' m ""y fl'!h"n,s ,,h
of GuerVero. is such that successful , W- ,UMl.lt
pursuit can be conduced only by a , "l"o , , " . ,h 7 . "
, , , , , , , .... rcro district wjth orders to ppoe a
wide deploying of forces and the utili-' , . . . V
, , . , . 1 far as thev could the American ad-
zation of a large part of the inlantry. ,. . - --" '"" w
I, wa, pointed out that the further , he . TZJTl
Admiral Strauss wa summoned ia. tacKea oy tne raiders.
ter and read the letter in question. It Berlin asserts that Edinburgh and
was a reply nrade b ythe board to Leith, and points on the Firth of
the Krupp Company to supply 14-inch I Forth and the Tyne were visited by
(Continued on Page Thre.) (Continued on page 7)
Photographic Copies of von Papen's
said corn
March 30. i legislation through personal appeal to: of Inferior quality was pienttrui , ana
A British official statement says in j senators, he would seek to have them i that beef cattle in sufficient quantity
the German air raids over Scotland j disciplined by the War Department. ; had been secured.
Sunday night 10 persons were killed ! He said officers who appeared before I The American cousul at Monterey
and 11 injured. There were no casu-l'he committee were unwilling to see advised the State Department that ex
alties in the sections of England at-' 'heir plans worked into a homogeon- citement there following the Columbus
ous bill, and as soon as they conclud-1 massacre ana tne entrance oi Amen
ed their testimony began to attempt can troops Into Mexico had completely
to Influence friendly senators. 'subsided. Friendly relations between
The committee might just as well ; (Continued on Pane Four.)
igive up if such influence is going to
i induce the senator to withhold his j
: support until the measure em
everything the officer wants,
e.uress fcrcai irrei mui mt- iih-
troops penetrate into Mexico, the great
er will be the necessity for streng;h
ening the lines of communicalion.
From the border to the extreme
southern positions, that advanced
post already have travelled 300 miles
when there is taken into account the
twisting. of the trails they have gone
over.
The Northwestern Railway is not
freely to American officers always.
provided ihai the informal ion was
'false. The story of Villa's being
; wounded was carefully concealed for
the express purpose of misleading Us'tl
eral Pershing and Col. Iodd into th
belief thnt the bandit was in hiding in
.the n.oun'ains and thereby inducing
them to split their forces into small
searching parties who would waste
... I : .. .. I .. I it . .. . . J
due to a failure of General Gavra and j w. lnakjrK his W-J M)U,h .
i mis part or tne story ts given color
to
J ,m , j j r 1 1 C tional guard has seen fit to inject it-
LettCTS 10 VOn CLOT UOZ bent U. J.-( into the halls of Congress until
bodied Report In Douglas Has Villa on Sonora
aui' . . . . . na
Border In the District of bahuaripa
(By Review Leased Wire)
WASHINGTON, April 3. Photo
graphic copies of letters said to have;
beer, written by -Captain Von Papen,
German military attache, to persons
in this country asking them to aid
Von Dcr Goltz, thp alleged German
"py. brought to New York last week
by Scotland yard deiectives, are in the;
possession of the United States gov
ernment. These letters, it is said,
were written at the time Von der
Goltz was shaping plans to blow up
the Welland Canal. One was address
ed to a German government official in
this country and met with such re
sponse that Von der Goltz was able to
leave the United States on an Ameri
can passport issued to him under the
(By Review Leased Wire.)
DOUGLAS. April 3. Villa and
ga'd to all cargoes.
"Among omer pumerous "'n'.jiia, of Bridgen.an Taylor.
ft win oe sUTic-ni 10 iumi-. j... .
parcel not na-kaees containing o-.
The name of this official, who still
is at his post in this country, has been
ther iW.io niorr"" of r-ihher for carefully guarded. In the letter to him
Hsnt-ir' fsti""rs T-iinr. Tihi .lae-tvon Papen is understood to have ac
naHho Mranho. Acre. Linda. Para. knowledged that Von der Goltz was
and P-arill or nln. s'v ne Par
cels containing 410 revolvers for C-er-msnv
via Amsterdam sterner GelHaf.
'Concerning this letters or follf-s
of envelopes, or others, entrusted o
(he postal ser-W and commonlv
nostet in the nostl hses of the postal
nHmitiirtmtionx of th- countries from
rhi.-Vt th.e sh'npfpe 's made, the 1
tinH ' irovernmonf s cn'lrt the attent'on
of the neutral j"i-cr"'"ents to the
'form ripwrnhiT 19H. to nerotp-
r 1 the Ontijn or Ansfrian-
Hutigarian naval anthorities have de
(Continued on Page 81
trustworthy in the confidence of the
writer and as such was commended to
the good offices of the recipient. Of
ficials here expressed the belief that
the letter established the fact that, in
trying to bring about an invasion of
Canada and in planning the destruc
tion of the Welland Canal, the plans
were endorsed by von Tapen as von
der Goltz claims.
Photographic copies of this letter
by the admission of General Pershing
today that his intelligence department
has been given much misleading in-
rmation and It was becoming mors
! difficult to secure reliable reports. Con
st various towns. - The Agua Prieta ! tinuins his story, the man said:
garrison today is said lo have number-' "The American officers were fooled
ed but a few more than 100.. ''al first but they have a fair knowledge
li-rimlj frutav Fr.,in tiki. Vanlli River Of the If'Sl situation nnttY Mnli tll Alt.
adds to the long memorandum address j considered in which effects the whole jnj(v of Santa jarDarai Chihuahua, j v,IIey ,,,,,, thM while ,he oVfacto S'am e column is driving southeast
ed to the State Department regarding co"ntr' '' , ' . , v. but a few miles from Dolores Pass. froops have withdrawn from the moun ! with all the speed they can command,
von Papen. Army officers have objected to the,pa jnl() the Sahuaripa district of tainous region which compruses the ' Their one chance of catching up with
The contents of the confidential Cummins amendment and maintained ; gonora ccortins ,0 rPporta rMChInk ; Vgqul Indjan stronRnolat there ar Villa is that they have a good road and
memorandum never have been dis- l"e efficiency or tne general Btaq , prit from the south. It is ,ronr irnrrisop at n of the railroad : should not be handicapped bv th b
known to Only three would be lost if its meeting were open , . . brought there by htn ri.m .nd i-mniim Problems of forage and water Th-
passengers arriving from Nacozarijon the west coast railroad. itrnil leads ihrough broad valley
this morning. The report that Torin and Bacum, t where there is generally plenty of wat-
The report did not slate how many towns not directly on the railroad but!r 'his time of the year and which
men Villa had with him or what bis;ner lt nav Dt.en occupied by lhe! fairly fertile and well cultivated. Of
condition was. Twelve American em-;yaqjs js not believed here. Howev-! urse. the neon farmers mill try io
ployes of the Voclezuma Copper Com-,rri j, js sported from reliable Amert-1 conceal their grain but American gold
pany, most of them the heads of de-jran an(j Mexican sources that thei and silver will be a temptation many
Dartments. returned to Nacozari today j pr0ncho Vanuis. whose conquest was of them will be unable to resist
to resume their work where they left . progressing rapidly when the Coliuii-
c,..,.. sn,s.h ..,.i n. ,.... itwo weens auo wiien iumuiuu-u i -
commending von der Goltz, are con-!. ' , fnr ', . ... border following the announcement of
i now it looks as if it were a fight be-;
von der Goltz's recent statement to the. tween the regular forces and the!
Departn ent of Justice. This probably j national guard, as to which is to beis,a band of his men are In the vie-,
closed and are
persons in the Stale Department, to ! lo natlnal guard officers, many of
President Wilson and lo one or twoi1'0"1- 11 was charged, received their
of the officials of the Department of i appointments as political rewards and
Justice ' would not appreciate the necessity of
While some of the occurrences out- i !Uasri',ins niili,ary serrf-'8 uml-r di8'
lined in the confidential memorandum ; ' "f," n.' .. , , ,, , .
hno k. . ,,m; . . Senators Martin, Lee. of Maryland,
have become public, it is known that .,., 0. .... ,,'.,.. u ...i.
ami OIIIIlll mill Idlll.ltK UI vir-tii ,ia.
spoke in opposition to the federal
the salient points of its contents have!
ran,..., p. J , volunteer plan.
- i . . . w.. ti n ii n aurru HI l I , ,
tained in a batch of correspondence'
regular army with at least 96 hours
the President's direction to send the
taken from von der Goltz in England .h h ,,v,...i . vocation" i.' troops into Mexico in pursuit of Villa
and will soon be made public. I'oi- i nation I According to company sources, about
tions of the correspondence, included j Senator William suggests that two one-qunrter of the employes have now
the voii Pepen leiters. and were pho- j st.na,or!, frm, Ueotgia need not con-' returned lo Mexico. Conditions in
tographed and brought to the United : mrt ,viti, u,e volunteer army plan. Nacozari and vicinity are quiet and the
States by the Scotland yard detectives j w hich he advocated he suggested to Mexicans fail to show any hostility
in whose custody von der Goltz cross- De put into a branch of the West toward Americans. Should conditions
ed the ocean. Point Ai-a.iemv remain as they are. the company man-
It was the original intension of the J Senator Weeks spoke in favor of agement intends to return th men to
government officials to publish the
correspondence seme time ago. but its
publication was del.iyed to gain time
for this government's investigations.
There is nothing in the letters, or in
von der Goltz's statement in New Vork
to indicate under whose instructions.
ana otners rrom von Papen of a naturiir any. von Papen was acting when he
pot disclosed, have been submitted to! endorsed von der Golz' plans and sup
the 8tate Department. With them plied him with money to carry them
went a note detailing the essentials of o-it. '
the feileml volunteer system anh ! . .acozari a few at a tune until tne IUII
praised the bill as the best piece of j working force has resumed,
military legislation ever put before Five thousand defacto Mexican
the Senate. Senator Brandagee of troops r in tb Mortrzutua district.
Connecticut also made an urgent plea! it was learned thie ajtrooon tbrou&b
for the volunteer array. At the close jArut PrieU official ourts. Abut
of the day Senator Chamberlain ' 1500 are guarding the niduBUiu pass
again warned the Senate that hels between Srmnra ad Chihuahua,
would ask for nlgbt sesslone -unless jTbe rest sr said to m encamped at
more rapid progress is made in thei watering places io tie northeastern
near future. part of the state, or are in garrisons
bus rail caused cessation og opera
tions against them, are rapidly reas
sembling in formidable bands and are
once more raiding ihe country. There
are now 69 Americans in the valley.
These men are said to be well armed
and determined to hold their property
"If they can catch up with Villa be
fore he gets into the Torreon district
they ouht to be able to kill or cap
tme him but if he is able to join forc
es with Canuio Reyes they will have
a difficult task ahead of them."
Mexican officials here and In Juare
refused to discuss the probability of
Father Angel Maria Uarrelo. aged I Villa heing close to Parral but tber
3 years, whose death is attributed by
his friends to a broken heart, because'
of his exile from Sonora more than a
year aso. was buried here today. Req
piem Mass was sung with the Very
show no inclination to belittle the story'-
General Gavira. the Juarez com
mander, said he had no diiect new-
from the front as the wires between
Juarez and Casas C. ramies were again
Reverend M. Portela. acting head r f ; f"' r commission due to heavy storms
Sonora, and five other priests, four e'l
them exiles from Mexico, officiating..
Father Bunelo. realieioy that his
death was prtr at hand, is said tn
bav asked pnroiissioQ of General
Calles. nill'tary jrnvernnr of Sonora. 1
return to Uls birthplace. Graijados. jjou
ora. Permission was refused,
priest died uddenly Fidav.
ATTEMPT FAILS
COLUMBUS. X M, April 3 An at
tempt tn establish a wireless station
at T Valle Tor communicating be
tween General Pembina; at th front
atid hie iff at Colonia lib'an. ttiirtt
Tli he expedited, has failed because of at-
(Continued, on Taje Two.)
