I
-4
AIM QUERQUE MORNING JOURNAL.
CITY
EDITION
CITY
EDITION
-. JL
THIKTY-SEVEXTII YEAH.
VOL. t'U '
TEN PAGES.
HIGH
OFFICII
L
OF GERMANY IN
UNITED STATES
IS
IMPLICATED
Plans of von Der Goltz to
Blow Up Wetland Canal En
dorsed by Captain von Pa
pen, Is Story,
ALBUQUERQUE, NEW MEXICO.TUESDAY, APRIL 4, 1916.
TEN PAGES.
THE WEATHER
weather iki:c..st.
Denver, Colo., April 3. .New Mexi
co: lucsduy colder, with rain south
east and ruin or snow north portion;
ednestlay unsettled, colder southeast
and warmer northeast portion.
LOCArV WEATIIEK ItErORT.
For twenty-four houra. ending at
q p. in. yesreruay.
Maximum temperature, 67 degrees;
minimum, Ji degrees; range, I'M de
grees; temperature ut fi p. in., 55 do
greoS; southwest wind; partly cloudy
CITY
BANK CLEARINGS.
Yesterday
I125.582.15.
INVASION OF CANADA
PART OF CONSPIRACY
State Department Has Infor
mation Regarding Teuton
Activities Which May Now
Be Disclosed,
H MORNINU JOURNAL IRCCIAL LIASIO Wmti
Washington, April SI. Photographic
have
BLAZE IN NEW YORK
IMPERILS SKYSCRAPERS
11 MORNINO JOURNAL IRICIAL LIARIO mil
New York, April 3. A. section of
the business district In the lower part
of the city was threatened today by
a spectacular fire which burned two
five-story building at 111 and IS Deek
man street, occupied by paper deal
er. The loss was estimated at $100,
000. For a- while the flames which
swept rapidly through the Inflamma
ble materials in the buildings, im
perilled several skyscrapers on both
sides of the narrow thoroughfare, and
on Nassau street. Several floors of
the fourteen story Morse building
were damaged.
The American Tract Society build-
been i,nP ft twenty stories, in which the
ACW1 York
Dally by Carrier or Mall, C0
a Month. Single, Copley 6
DANIELS CLOSES
TESTIMONY
NEEDS OF NAVAL
PREPAREDNESS
Several Clashes Occur Be
tween Secretary and Illinois
Congressman Who Criticizes
Administration, .
FISKE'S RETIREMENT
IS FULLY DISCUSSED
Compromise Program of Con
struction May Be Drafted in
Committee Bill Now. Framing.
.,A,.lltU A .ittt1U &J4 lrl to
written by Captain von Papen. the " unices are located,
withdrawn German military attache,!111 imaged by smoke and
. v...m l water.
to persons in hub vuuhuj osmns intm
...i II,, .lo,. 41r.H hi iiII.tim ! 1 "f
""I 'Z' : rT . tadly damaged by fire
rv i 111a 11 "t'J t 'wd - - - -
week nco by Scotland Yard detect
utererrn f the Unludj STATE-SUPERVISED
These letters, it is saw, were wm
ten at the time von der Goltz was
shaping plttiiH to blow up the Welland
canal. One was addressed to a Ger-
The buildings burned today were
about .two
weeks ago and were bping repaired.
of the many cases that runic before
him of young officers addicted to
drink. He cited one man who told
him thai his son, a young navy offi
cer, never had vised hipim- in any
form before he went aboard ship.
Although he had , resolved in ask
for Admiral Flake's resignation, the
secretary mm Id he changed bis mind
when congress created (he office of
chief of operations to supplant the
aide system, and intended to allow
the admiral to serve ns aide until the
office expired.
The admiral resigned. liowe r, be
fore the new law became effective.
Xt Heal Difference.
Representative mitten directed at
tention to Admiral Klske's statement
that he had resigns,! because ho bad
differed from Mr. Daniels on the pre
paredness question. Th,. secretary
said thut was not (Me reason given to
him for the resignation. Representa
tive liritten usked that certain letters
from Mr. Fiske and the general hoard
to the secretary warning him that the
navy was' unprepared for war be
placed In the records. Air. lmnlels
nerttnea to da no, saying lie had no
intention of permitting sin h corre
spondence between! the bourd and
himself to be mad the subject of gs-
slp. j
CongrfHsninn i Criticised.
Representative Oliver, of Alabama,
democrat, made a statement sharply
ittucking Representative Rrllteii. Ho
said the Illinois member's attitude
throughout the hearing hHd followed
the single line of criticizing the sec
retary of the navy. He Killed atten
tion to the fact that Mr. liritten had
insisted upon calling- Admiral Fiske
and declared the questions propound
POWERFU
L
GERMAN
DRV
E
AGAINST
VERDUN MAKES
GOSTLY GAINS
French Retreat, Drawing Teu
tons Into Position Upon
Which Deadly Flanking Fire
Is Poured,
HEAVY FIGHTING ON
EASTERN BATTLE LINE
Both Russian and Turkish Re
ports Claim Successes in
Caucasus Region; British
Force Beaten in Arabia,
lV MORNIN9 JOURNAL FECIAL LIARIO WIM
Washington, April 3. The house
naval committee brought an end to
day to its prolonged hearing on the "l to the admiral by Mr. Uritlen had
1917 nHViii appropriation bill. Hecre-been of a purely personal nature, not
Itarv Daniels closed a. three-da v state-,"" effort to enlighten the committee i
. . w..r i : a i itt tin v -1 1 r.rnl.luiMU
. . - . - ... t -m.. unfit .iriuui llrtilu.. ,.i..t I, ..w ' 11
una. uppeHi ior 8iipiori 01 int mum..-, ,tv im.-v ...... n - j
WINNIPEG QUIET AFTER
TWO NIGHTS OF RIOT
mv morninr jounNAL inctL liaiio wirii
Winnipeg, .Manitoba, April ;t, Quiet
prevailed here tonight following the
rioting of Saturday and Sunday nights
in which four soldiers and one civilian
Wei, dangerously Injured und scores
of other persons rut and bruised.
Military authorities took steps to
prevent n repetition of tho Violent
scene brought on by clashes between
soldiers and the police.
An agreement was reached where
by the city police hereafter will main
tain order among the populace and
the military authorities among the
soldiers.
Tho war cries of u drunken Indian
who tried to rescue u soldier from
the police started the trouble on Sat
urday night. Scores of soldiers ral
lied about their comrade and a Ben
era I fight ensued.
Disorder broke out Sunday evening
when soldiers attempted to storm the
police station and rescue comrades
taken into custody the night previous.
MOUNDED AND
ME
ONLY EIGHT
, VILLA IS
NEAR! PARRA
L
FLOOD CONDITIONS AT
DALLAS THREATENING
MOKNINa JOURNAL .RACIAL LIAIIO fRI!
Dallas, Tew, April .1, Rising alight
ly further today, the Trinity river at
Dallas tonight stood at 3H.1 feet, the
highest since May, 111 OS, when a stage
of 62.6 feet was recorded. Thu river
still was rising slowly. Property dam
age has been reported but there has
been no loss of life so far as known.
Bandit Chieftain in No Recent
Battle Either With Carranza
of American Forces, Is Re
port in El Paso,
PERSHING THROWN OFF,
TRACK BY SYMPATIZERS
Peons Loyal- to Their "Mexi
can Robin Hood," Give
False Information to Expe-
' dition; No Reliable "Guides,
11 MORNIN JOURNAL RIOIAL LIARIO KIRtl
101 Puso, April 3. Francisco Villa,
i1 MORN, NO JOURNAL IRICIAl LIAIIO WIRI)
Having strulghtened out their linei
by occupying all rrencn positions , ,,0,(H m)rth ()f IulaM ,,, h); unwounded snd aceompanlod by only
north of the Forges brook, between j rv,l. (1)lWv mywK im) u ,(,(,VPd eight men, was fit, Satevo, 60 miles
Huucourt and Hethlncourt, north west j (h(, (.r,,Ht wi l)UHH lml)iH ,on ,u orisout, of rhlhimhua ' City, two days
,oi .eroun, uie weriuaim now ure en- tomorrow Tb cr.l.i i,,. f..n... J ago. according to information received
in shelling the elgion of theMn ,. t,,,,,. ,.i , ! here toriav from Mexican source
Istration's flve-vear building program !try dashed again when the tor-1 l!our,u m M"w t,,"t'8 no,,l,- iHlderable loss In llveso, k the Ran-I hlch have proved usually, reliablo
A suh-conimlttce will begin immedi-1 m(r "f,kl'd lf a democratic congress' w,'st "f ln' f"r,r,'w'- jhandlo and western sections of Texas1'" the past. ' .
utely framing the bill. ;na,l ,)ot ut ('"Wn the recommemla- Krtst ot ,ho M"'" around VauKjWhlch will probably run Into hundreds) M l'l information is correct it.
TFXA RANk FAN 9' it became known toniht that a de-iuo" ,r r,'P"
I E-AMo PAINr rAILi.)prmlne(1 effort woulJ hf m fi) pr(J.,,thre ba.tleshii
republican secretary
ps to one.
11 MORNINO JOURNAL f Rf ClAL LIARCO WIRI!
vide for six capital ships two dread-; ., "If 'ou mt t g into polillus"-
,.,R government official in this coun-L. vru
n,i t with such resnonse thatMvest lew" "llnK ana irust 'ompany,
open its doors today, having been or-.
dered closed yesterday by State Rank-;
'naughts and four battle cruisers as a
'Secretary Daniels began.
! IMPORTANT DECISION
icompromise between the recommend.!-1 " " '"'" , ,o say
!(,..., i. ., e ,h, ...... .i , tnat politics should be excluded, but
.... ... Ift slut nnoerviMxi inut tntitii ML., " wi v dv...v.... ....... . ,,,..,,
von der uoil was aoie 10 ica.c l,,n lf ,, ,,,,.. , ... . of the navy general lward.
I'niied States with an American pas-
Would Not IV? Se'itid.
fr. there has been considerublo fighting 0f thousands of dollars.
between the French and fiermaos, In
which the French were victorious in
driving back fhn Teutons to the
northern outsklrt of the rulllotte
wood, and in reoccupylng the west-
a general debate on the subject fol- j ern )art of ths village of Vaux, which
loweiU Mr. Rritten asserted that; they had previously evacuated.
hours out previous reports that the
chief Is heuded toward Parral und
Is hading his American pursuers by
., I.....I .il..u nl... H. ...
ON PARTNERSHIP LAW;
point to Satevo which the ' American
j troops aro known to have reached is
i1 MORN, NS JOURNAL (PIC, AL LtARCO WlA !San AntOlllO, SlXt.V IlllU'S tO t llH
Wushlimton, April . The supreme' northwest.
Is llirutleil low iTUfTUi,
,..,i-i sunn,! him under tne anas M . ' " ' . ...v.... ...... . , -u,-u , .-.u.,,,,-, ,,,, , mtiuiy ,-,,r. .unui inuuy ueciue, tnat n 1 tin rall-
K" " ino- ( nmm uii fip .T..l-ti a n.,(..ror.n Air. DanitTs riarr led h 11 ol forts tud:,v t fh ,nna,fn. p n,Ci'U. i.r.(r,..uKi..d I r,.i. ... .-, - .... .
Hrldirman Taylor. i"? - .. - .....,.,.,.,.. ,-,,-,. .....n ,,,,., . , ,. nrvupainii, oy me vrciiiians m purr ot a pannersnip us smn ana or ,,. ,..,1,1 , i,..0 i,. iuU.,11
Kudorml by von l'apcn. MiamanBgemcnt of the bank's affalrso get from him a statement as to 1 he. during his administration. , , Haucourt-Helhincourt front fol-(he Individual membership of the part-Vvuta is .1 which h Is thi,r"
The name of this official, who is w" c,hfed; 'r 'if 'f" T? "aVal ,,0",r'a U,, 'lt 'S mZ ,tha" ,;U !ow"1 u v"tftr'," ",,,llk ,n hih, nershlp as such, the individual credl-j f,A y Uxi ml and which Indeed
,til at his poat in this country, has! Bank Oommissloner Patterson .United, states should occupy He saldIr. Secretary," he said however, the (lermans met no foe, ors ofa member have priority in the ffwJ a 0 lB u' ,,ns M Tun I
t carefuiw".,,rded. In the letter here probably would be no loss, the five-year program ho had mapped Secretary Daniels replied that Hec- , .pm,h mivl ,vilvM thetr dislrlbutlon of assets over tho part-! 1" ? " d:,n0 " " ro ,t leads
n 1.. ..niivtiri-wi? huVO f.Y.' ... nWiX.,nc, ui-,- - - jj w - - - v . ,
Drained that the bearer, von der Goltz, i'',r'nien " that they will obtain;"",! Place In his judgment an
v,.w,nuiKli. nml trnuttvorlhvl
W IW U rpjiiijiBtuiv, wiv. " v - - - -.
p-iauu in v V -ion,, vnwl 1 Adfl imrt
poHiiloiiH At nlKlit without Uu Uer- ( ncrnhip I'lvdltorn
about 75 rpntfl on tho dollar.
.ind thatmmendation until, after the repub-j ohi),yvlnli niove,ent. From
.the present congress could not beillcan defeat In the last election and
Di'PWlts protected by tho state guar-;H8kpil to make up the deficiencies of! then "recommended everything lu i
and as such
good offices of the recipient. Offi
cials tide expressed the belief tonight
that this letter established, beyond
question, tho fact that von der Goltz'
activities in trying t bring about an
invasion of Cunada and in planning
the destruction of the Welland canal:
wore endorsed by von I'apen, as von I
der (ioltz claims. !
Known to nopurtinciit. j
Photographic copies of this letter!
and others from von Papen, of a na-j
lure not disclosed, have been tsubmlt-!
ted Lo the state department. witni
went a noty detailing the essentials of
von der Gobz' recent statement to de
partment of Justice officials. This has
been added to the long confidential:
memorandum given to the state de-i
partment before the withdrawal of
von I'apen was requested, by thej
American government. I
Kept Close Scvrct.
The contents of the confidential
memorandum never have been dts-l
closed and ure known to only three!
persons in the state department, to
President Wilson, und to one or two
officials in the department of justice.
While some of tho occurrences out
lined in the confidential memorandum
have become public, it Is known that
sensational portions f its contents
liave never been printed.
Soon to Bo Itibli.-dicd.
SCOTLAND
RAS
FIRST EXPERIENCE
WITH ZEPPELINS
itwenty years past
At the close, of the Kuropeun war,
he said, he believed a great opportun
ity would come, for international lim
itation of armament and with a strong
building program adopted, the United!
States would be in a better position to
urge that movement successfully thuu
if lis fleet were weak.
I'actory Plan Assailed.
IJeprcsentative liuth r, of renrisyl-i
jvunia, republican, assailed the sccre-:
tury's recommendations for a govern-
j mi lit projectile factory. He asserted
I that tho specifications for navy armor,
piercing heils were so high thut they!
met
sight.'
ANTI-CATHOLIC
MOO I HO
ST
5 SCHILLER SENT
MILITIA CALLED
I could not be met bv manufacturers.
Air Raider Circles Over One;,,nfl aw1 Iip hd rt'iis, to H City Hall Closed Against Meet-; ku" WM rauwi
ilieve that the specifications for navy! . r, . . . , n. . The usual bombard
l own tor horty Minutes: 1 -'-" i other material had: mg to rroiesi Against oiato
This decL-iion wns announced in the
i their new positions south of thej''i",e of the failure of William Gray
Korges brook and at llethlncourt, the "'hi sous of Philadelphia and of Its
French poured a direct und flunking I lIln Partners individually.
fire into tho attacking Germans, who
suffered heavy casualties.
Along the remainder of the French
front, artillery bombardments ha
preilomluati d, allhougli there have
been several combats near Verdun,
in which the Gcrniuns lost four aero
planes, and aerial raids by the
j French on various German canton-
mcnt.i in liclgiuiii.
i Heavy ItoniluirdmeiilM,
Artillery duels between the Ger
j mans and Russians continue on the
i eastern front. An attack by the Ger
I mans against Ihe bridgehead ut 1k-
l,v the Russians.
TO HOSPITAL IN
r n i , ( ,;ueen roveaieu uuring jvir. lianicis un-
UIUjpillg DUIIIUSj OtJVei administration to tho
People Killed,
IBY MORN, NO JOURNAL RRICIAL LIARIO WR
London, April S (7:13 p. m ) A
.Scotch correspondent in a certain
town, In a dispatch concerning Sun
day night's air raid, says:
"Scotland has had Its experience
with a Zeppelin raid last night. A
Zeppelin appeared ten minuteg boforo
midnight and circled over the town
Russian and Ger-
jman governments. H suggested that
I Rear Admiral Htrauss, chief of ord
inance, be asked to produce a letter to
the Krupp company of Germany.
CrrrNsmlcnoc With Germany.
Admiral .Strauss was summoned lut-
inents are In prog
ress on the Austro-Ituliail line.
Airl fnr pHnrian QrlinnlQ1 -ituntinople reports that the
Mill IUI Ottldllclll OtllUUIbi Turks, strongly reinforced, have
CaUSe Of TrOUble, : checked the Russian offensive In tho
Caucasus region and that the Otto-
' ' j man forces have made advances in
11 MORNING JOURNAL 6PICIAL LCASfU WIRI tho Tcbotulc valhy. I'elrograd, hovv-
Haverhill, M iss., April SS. The local' ever, asserts that, the Russians have
company of the slate militia was called: seized heavily fortified Turkish posl.
Man
er and read the letter in question. It; upon by Mayor Albert L. Hartlelt. to-jtions at an iillltiid- of l,00 feel
wus a reply to an offer made before, night to assist the police in controlling; on the upper Tchuruk, and farther
the war by tho Krupp company-(o suji-i ft crowd of r,000 peoplo concerned ln!south have captured a Turkish posl-
piy 14-inch guns for the l-hlted Htates;a riotous demonstration in the vicinity, tlon and dispersed Turkish cavalry
nitvy. Ihe ordnance bureau answered' of city hull. Muny windows In lho; detachments.
that lf guns to meet the requirements building were broken by missiles. Mrltlsh nrv Itcalen.
for forty minutes, dropping many jfuned in the offer could be provid- The crowd assembled us a result of, r Arabia, according to tho report,
: bombs, warning of the enemy's tip- ule i-oinpauy s ma wouia nave iu-;an attempt to hold a meeting in thtnt, jjiitlsh near Kheikh Osnuin have
1 .u ....... ,hn tcntion. 'v,..u f,. fi.n .,iu,.uuin ti.. , , .
r-intxln vim ltu,en'u nlleired letters ' ' ' ' I"-"i"e "i ., iw. v..., ........ n,.on unven lTom ioruiieu posiuons
eonn endinc von der GolU are coiiJp,pt,tr!c ,ish,s ,,PinK cl,t ""' Kvel" T ? ? Rre not R"p( ifk-'tl'"1" " Ox sectarian schools. ThejwU h(.avy CUsaltles and forced to
.ah,e I f ir? 1 . d . ll bo'l' remained calm and many per-jour 14-lnch guns." Admiral Strauss. meeting was regarded as antl-Ga.ho- rHr,at.
, ,4 i f i a sons ventured Into the streets to get sum. jney are ror a rnucn superior, He. Tnoiuus u. LeyUen, of Mmnervuie,
a.uui vuil uri UU1K, an ,,,,. i, -l.l KUn." mrt,n it,.,.. n, .,,....,, f,..v,,. Iln
'across tho Continental dlvld through
tho Pachimiba pass lito a broad val
ley which runs east to giui Andres,
Villa's old heudqilurtcra, thence
south to-.Santa Ysnbel, tho scene of
Villa's massacre of eighteen Ameri
can mining men, and then southeast
through Kalevo to Parral. -'
I T'Ji man win, brought thu hiur
of Villa's arrival at 8atcvo here gave,
a circumstaiillal account of tho ban
dit's maneuvers and plan of cam
paign. Whllo his story is imposrilblo
jot verification his own credibility is
vouched for by rcp'utuhle American
business men here who huve em
ployed him for several years.
Villa In No Hatllcs.
"Villa," ho said, "has never taken
...... fU,.,ln ...tll. n,.t.
VV HO UaptUI'CU Dl'ltlSll I American or t'arranzlsta troops. Hh
Steamship Single-handed onjS 1 f S
the High Seas Is Committed t:pr,0!", f',,r "s th,,y could tha
n . , ... . American advutice. At the same time
tO rSyCOpatlllC Ward, th peons were instructed to ijive in-
formation freely to the American of-
j fleers, ulways provided that tho In
formation wns false. Th story uf
Villa's being wounded was carefully
concocted for tho exprem purpose tf
misleading Ocnerul Pershing and
NEW! YORK CITY
,IU l SUOll I'B UUIUU JJU"HV- "i 1,(,,; ,, I lltll tllO WTCI'IIV on,l t,n mln.lnlVn. Cotl.ll., r 1, u ,1 n,l..r.
The sinking by a Turkish subma-
I rine in tho Uluck Seu, on March 110,
i of a 1,000-lon Hiissian transport with
j .u.sn toreign ouice in i.onuo. . ' " Htnl(.k but mllen ,lHm(1Ke was done In said tlwy had no knowledge of any tised ns the speaker. When the hour ' " ", ' , tw other vis
ions of the correspondence, includ- the resift(,ntuu iPlilns or othf.r informution havinKlfor th), nwiinK arrived, the crowd i" 1' fl , ,1 ' ,?r, 1 Z V,"'
nig the von Papen letters, were ,.... , ii1Wn lmi),.tfH in.ti,., p.i mu,.nJ fl-rmi -.f hull -m n un rlnriod ln " ' '
brought to the muted States by the " p ,..." " .iment. " I . d " Z' "V. n "L ! TurklHh Wilr " 11 Mh
Gotland Yard dctoetlves in wboso " . itu:".": " """"Z , "".1.. vi v lZ u. 1 " ,Z ! "'at tho Russian hospital ship
Portugal, was' torpedoed and sunk In
assertion that the armor-piercing shell if by a preconcerted plan from
specifications were too high, Admiral; parts of the city.
Strauss produced the records of the
department to show that the Midvale
and Crucible Steel companies had de
all
the Pluck Hea.
In one Instance penetrated a building! livered large quantities of shells that
from the roof to the basement.'
Another Scottish
had passed the tests.
I A Hrilish
that in the
off it-ill 1
German
Finding the . police powerless, hv S).0,,ttl)(, n,Kht t,.n
"Five nersomi were killed In
(passage leading to a tenement build- nlent-
t.,. ...t.A.... . 4.., Silllllu PfllU rri.uru lil.l 4li,i n ra rnut,A
,,1 . .4 It , , lntl 1 1,1 i:" H'lUlB W r, e 1,,llftt-ll I," I - ..tT ...V.,. l.V'U. UIIU ..... Vlt..', .....
uatuuy ion uei "U' i roast u m-m-: rnnkci their exist by means of fire es-I In answer to Representative Butler's Kleven falso alarms were rung in as
w-i-aii. n, vvs me original jiiiiii'im
of the British foreign office, it was.
aid tonight, to publish the corre
spondence some time ago, but its pub
lication -was deferred to afford offi
cials here a chance to act on its dis
closures. T'I.qw,. Id r...,lt,.- -.4.4",..!.. .... ;A In
m.? r'v TttA dtr 8,'.,tt!'H' t the arrival of a Jteppelin overjlo criticisms ot himself implied oraction the cltiZen soldiers would take.' i"1'- "' ,h" T
I.. ,lu the same unnamed town shortly be- stated uuring tne testimony or Rear
whoso instructions, it any, von Papen mlt,Iligbx An ,ncenUlHry boillb Admiral Fiske, former aide for op-
was acting when he, endorsed von deiiwu ,iwmj ,, )m,4,r,i,4,i,. at I erations. and became involved in a
Linu3 im Kuppuea mill nun
capes. Two servant girls employed
in a doctor's house were killed while
a man was killed In the street. Two
hotels were struck and several per
sons were killed or injured. A bomb
mayor decided- about 11 o'clock to seek
the aid of the militia. The sounding
of tho ml III Iti signal on the fire alarm!
hud the effect of bringing to the scene!
statement says
air raid over
persons
I were killed and eleven Injured. There
were no casualties in the sections of
IDV MflRNIHtS JOURNAL RRICIAL. I.IAIIO WtRKl
New York, April 3. Clarence Reg
inald Hudson, alius Ernest Hchlller,
who single-handed took possession of
tho Hrlllsh freight steamship Mutop- j ''flour! Dorld Into the belief that the
. on the blirh seas wns e.onmlttert i ,,,,nU" ln """"If " ' "10U
England attacked by the raiders.
Secretary Daniels replied at length more thousands, courlous to see -whut
money to carry thi,m out.
fire to a building, which blazed up in j warm controversy with Uepresenta-
Anti-rUoctMk-k Blii Approved.
Washington, April 3. The Kenyon
bill to prohibit interstate transporta
tion of racetrack information was ap
proved today by X sub-committee of
'he senate Interstate comorce committee.
The Day in Congress
Met at noon. '
ri'.Bumed debate on the army bill.
Judiciary committee postponed con
sideration of Biundei nvralnatiou.
sin h a manner that the correspond
ent said tho glare must have revealed
the whole countryside to the Germany.
The subsequent movements of the
machine, the correspondent adds, sug
gested that it was able to determine
Its location, p.ombs continued to fall
ln quick succession. Several narrow
ly missed prominent buildings, but
muny others landed harmlessly in
open spaces.
There were so many persons in the
street that it was not surprising that
numerous casualties resulted, due. to j
, flying glass and splinters of wood.
The most serious damag, both to life
and property, was in the densely pop
ulated poorer districts of the town.
tive liritten, of Illinois, republican.
Responding to. questions by Chairman
Padgett, ho said Admiral Klslie had
sought appointment as commander of
the Atlantic fleet when Rear Admiral
Badger retired and had repeatedly re
quested It, to the secretary's great
embarassment.
IVefcrred ru-tcher.
In the city hall meanwhile many
people who had arrived early for the
meeting found th'-mselves locked In
with the building besieged by the
crowd. Friends ou the outside who
tried to communicate with those In
side the building found the telephone
wires out of order. j
One section of the crowd around!
tho building went to the residence of
Dr. Herbert R. Wales and attacked thej
house. Dr. Wales wns interested in
Pierlin asserts that F.dlnburgh und
of
Forth and tho Tyno were visited by
the Zeppelins anil that violent ex
plosions and numerous fires occurred
both In England and Scotland. All
the, airships returned to their base.
NEW COUNSEL FOR
DEFENSE OF CAPLAN
.Mr. Daniels said he told Admiral L;on's corning her,
r MOKNIN JOURNAL ClL LtfO Willi
I I, o AnpHfH, April 3. New cimnHi.l
The rcMiilonco; ,, llih l,fl t , , -( 1M
- - , tl... hi it 1 - A 1 a l ' V" I , ft M:"' GJUj 'Hill int. t ur,.
Fiske that Admiral Fletcher, then j " pr ' oiner or me h ll(.a ,,,, , cnun rap
commanding a squadron in Mexican i'",mol7S"f e meeting, was treat-, urn( ys )( ,,.l,irf, niwt1K.
waters, seemed ent iled to tlte sti.ir" ""'" lasui-n,. j-hil in uie
pointment. Admiral Fl.tke replied
to tlie psychopatttli: ward at Hellevip
hospital tonight for observation. Hud
son, who, Edited States Attorney If.
Hnowden MarshalJ earlier In tho day
aiinonueed, bad not committed a
breach of federal laws within this
Jurisdiction, was taken In charge by
District Attorney Swann after his re
lease by federal authorities.
Hudson, with George Kaller und
Otto Milleder, were arrested In con
rii'Ctloii with an alleged plot to dam
age the .steamship Punonla, wero
questioned for (wo hours ln the dla
Irlct attorney's office.
I.aler Hudson was taken before a
magistrate, who committed him to
Hellevue for ten dnys.
Horn In ICiisnla.
District Attorney swann said ho
had learned that (Schiller was bom lu
Peirtigrad, KusMa, of an English
father and a German mother. He
wus In the Ilritlsh army for a time
and for three months w'us at the
military camp at .Salisbury Plains.
Ho came to New Yoik in March,
1'JKi, and had worked since in fac
tories and mi furnis.
Tho police say they have learned
that Hudson's parents and two sis
ters now are in Kngiuiid. His father,
previous lo the declaration of war,
was manager of cotton mills In Mos
cow. According to Information galh-
talns and thereby Inducing them to
split their forces Into small search
lug parties who would waste their
time In the wild Sierras whll Villa,
w.-ia making his way safely south
ward," Gulden Not Ib'llitlritt.
This purt of the story Is given col
or by the admission of General Per-
jshlng today that, his department has
been given much misleading informa
tion and that It wns becoming more
difficult to secure reliable guides.
Continuing his atory, the man said:
"The American officers were fooled
ut first but they have a fair knowl
edge of tho real ttlttiatlon now nnd
tho advance column In driving south
east with all the speed they can com
mand. Their ono chance of catching
up with Villa is that they have a
good road and should not bo handi
capped by tho big problem of forage,
and water. Tho trail from Kan An
tonio to Hatevo leads through a broad
valley where there Is generally plenty
of water at this time of the year
and which Is fairly fertile anil well
cultivated. Of course, tho peon farm
ers will try to conceal their grain
but American gold and sliver will
bo a temptation many of thorn will
be unable to resist
Must It,- Caught (juicily.
"If they can catch up with Villa
before ho gets into tho Torreou dis-
Met at noon.
Miscellaneous bills, requiring unan
imous consent were considered.
Secretary Daniels main discussed
national defense before naval com
mittee.
Hrigadier, General C.aler. chief of
erdnanre, ratified bire the mili
tary commitfye.
Representative Porlacd, Missouri,
"d DooHttle,! anvs, uVged Invcsli
gutlon of packing houses, before judi
ciary committee.
AMMUNITION PLANTS
ON COASTS FAVORED
V MORNIN4 JOURNAL RRICIAL LIASIO WIRC.
Washington, April 3. Hrlgadier
General Crozier, chief of army ord
nance, told the house military commit
tee today that the army already has a
reserve of ?25,00,00n rounds of am
hunllon for rifles and machine guns.
but should have 296,000,000 more.
General Crozier said It would be a
good policy to have a small arms am
munition plant on both coasts.
that Fletcher did not want It. the
secrelary said, and asked that Ihe. ap
pointment be held up until he could
write to Fletcher. This wus done, Mr.
Daniels said, and when Mr. Fletcher I
replied that, he would be honored ly!'re attacked and
: . ('apian Is
with killing
. Il, ll-L'IU 1
Ph. . . Am,'r",;:n Charles llager.y, a victim mt the dy-
Charles Hoyt, commissioner of publ.c namilin(r f th ,.r,H Angele? Times In
'), "no iritioe a iiemonsirauon. tl'110
.iean mie, ucis ot violence contin
ued ln other parts of the city.
the command, he was uppolnted;
and ovrecgeu
irom mm nine on Aomirai risnc was
not in harmonic with the navy depart
ment. "Our. first difference," said the sec
retary, "was ovrr the wine mesH or
der. Admiral Fiske was greatly ag
grieved. He said navy officers would
go to using cocaine. My only regret
about the order Is that I did not issue
Jacob Margolis, of Pittsburgh,
an attorney active lu cases growing
frr.n, rlr.lirw ,, I Vitimswlrtu-n fltti
The rooms of the National f lubi t. .,,,,. r mis uo ,,,.r,!.,i ,.1.
the furnishings! , i,
it on March 5, when I came intojOf
fice, instead of waiting."
, ' "o to Drink.
( e had been
MiuaiiH or police were sent, (.,,lef of counsel for the defense, and
to guard tho residences of the mayor! , assistant. Kdwlu V. Mt-Kenzie, no-
,i,ui ,.,.,rr ,rii,,,eis or hip cuy govern- f.Pd th', district attorney that they I
r.r(..i i... ii, ii,.., ii,.,i i j i trict. they ought to be able to kill
..,i,v r, tin,, nun wrtn till '
out of bis father's hntu. d,.ri,,. .. capture him, but If he Is able to
quarrel w hich arowo when Hudson ! J"ln
brought a tramp Into the house while
his father was iitertalnlng a. dlMin-
ginsbed guest, and Insisted that the
trump should be treated on the. same
i-quiiuiy as rue guesr, j-
forces with Canuto Reyes thV
, I will have a difficult tusk aheud of
! them."
j Mextcuii officials here and In
IJuurez refused to discuss thu prob
ability of Villa being close to Par-
j ral, but they showed no inclination
to belittle the story. General Ga
! vira. the Juarez commander, said he
PLEAD NOT GUILTYil",d "ot r,"i'ivpJ n,'ws from ,nn fr,mt
, j ss the wires between Juares and
casus , mimics were aKtiin oui- wi con-
MEXICAN EDITORS
merit. The police station. In he base
ment of the city building was be
sieged. No arrests Were reported.
.SuiiHtariuiii Probe Continued.
Chicago, April 3. The civil service
Investigation of the municipal tubercu
loi'ls sanitarium of which Dr. Theodore
B. Sachs, who committed suicide ves-
terdayy, was heud, will be continued,
according to announcement made to
day hy Mayor Thompson,
had withdrawn. When the case
called they were not in court
Caplun said he did not know
they were not.
Disagreement us to tactlts. it
!RV MORNINa JOURNAL RPICAL LIAttIO WlRI j
l.,,M A not. ( A,.,,, 11 ...... I.. ,
was ! " ,. .... .....
nndj mason and r.iti ique c lores
wnyiMagon, brothers and editors, pleuil-'tl
not guilty today In I nited State"
was ! district court to Indictments returned
mission, duo to heavy storms.
p.i:i.ii: i: n.u has
ELIDED AMERICANS
sold later, caused the withdrawal of
Coghhtn and McKe.nzie. Caplun, It
was said, was the finul arbiter and
picked Margolis' way of conducting
tho defense.
A continuance was given until
Wednesday.
Mu.i 1 nt.,nfn Tnv Atirtl A Th
against the,,, In February by tbeft.Hr irMBl.d yesterday at army
grand Jury, charging them with " headquarters that Francisco Villa had
lng the mails to incite murder an i PHL.Hp,d froin the Tegion n which
arson through the publication of El
Regeneration, an alleged revolution
ary Mexican newspaper. .o date for
their trial v. at aet.
General Pemhingg columns are op
erating, became a conviction by the
close of today. No report from Mex-
ico stated that he had disappeared.
