I
- H
p I Today's Metal Prices ffi A t(N ivi GLt VTV XvtfvX 4 P. M. CITY EDITION I M
I v.a if II P II MllIrTl S)i tl II LI 41 I LI TEN PAGES
K '-'0- With Frost in Southwest Portion. l
I FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. cl
I Forty-sixth Year-.No. si. Price: Five Cents. OGDEN CITY, UTAH, TUESDAY EVENING, APRIL 4, 1916. Zm 7Z Z ' "1
- . . wiuiy j " xxu. Entered as Second Cla3 Matter at the Pootofflce, Ocden, Utai. n s'H
I General Funston Sends More U. S.
I ; Cavalry to Protect Pershing's Line
1 &
i MI APACHE SCOUTS AND TRAILERS
f ACCOMPANY CAVALRY TO MEXICO
I Nearly All Available Troops Have Been Called to Join in Pur-
gj suit of Villa Chief Now Reported 200 Miles South From
K Scene of Guerrero Fighting Over Roughest of Moun-
ilj tain Country and Heading for Parral in Hope
I of Gathering Force of Two Thousand Men.
m Washington, April 4. General Eun-
iW ston advised the war department to-
I day he was sending more troops into
I Mexico from Columbus to protect the
line of communication with General
I Pershing. He did not state whether
I any additional troops had been sent
I forward to the military base.
V So far General Funston has not sug
1 gested reinforcement of General
Pershing's forces except merely to
protect the extended communication
m lines and there was no confirmation
today of border reports that exten
m sive additions to the fighting column
would be. required
V Late reports to the war department
w A sny VnTs of the F'fth and Eleventh
wLQ cavalry and the 20th and 24th infan
3L try were stationed at Columbus
muI Pivate advices seeming to show
' that Villa has been definitely located
south of Chihuahua were received to-
i ' day by the state department and at
' once turned over to the war depart
ment for transmission to General
Pershing.
t i Scouts From Fort Apache.
Nine Apache scouts and trailers
have been ordered from Fort Apache,
Arizona, to General Pershing's col-
,' umn. Captain Hazzard of the Tenth
, cavalry who was with General Fun
ston when he captured Agumaldo,
left with the scouts For the border
today but he will not accompany them
into Mexico.
The army censorship today veiled
the number and personnel of the ad
ditional troops which have been sent
across the border. Major General
J-i- Scott, chief of Btaff; said the extra
' I troops had left Columbus two days
- I ago, but no word of the movement
I had been allowed to leak out It was
believed that the Fifth cavalry, re
cently sent from Fort Myer, Va , Fort
(. Sheridan, Ills., and Fort Ieavenworth,
Kansas, were drawn upon.
u Two messages came to the state
department regarding alleged location
of Villa south of Chihuahua. Depart
5 ment officials believe that, from their
information and press reports, it was
definitely established that he was
t headed south.
Today's official dispatches varied
legardlng the reported injuries of the
v bandit chief. At the state department,
those In close touch with the chase
doubted that he had been hurt. They
pointed out that since Villa's fight
March 27 with the Carranza garrison
at Guerrero, he had apparently trav
eled about 200 miles through moun
tain paths over the roughest of coun
ym try and that, if wounded, such a feat
) ( would have been almost impossible.
San Antonio, Tex., April 4. Offi
; clal admission of the belief that Villa
has fled far beyond the American for-
ces and now is operating south of
Chihuahua City waB made at General
1 Funston's headquarters today.
' , Since yesterday much information
Indicating that Villa was in the neigh
j ' horhood of Satovo, moving towards
; Parral has beea received, but that re
garded by, .General Funston as most
! reliable came from Consul Letcher at
Chihuahua,
' , Officers regard the troops engaged
; in the chiSse of Villa as adequate but
the line Jot communication, already
nearly 300 miles in length, Is causing
1 them anxiety. They do not believe
it can safely be lengthened without
HI being reinforced by more troops.
ml Conflicting Reports Received.
ni Consular Teporis reemvuu ui neau-
Mt quarters late last night gave confllct-
Mk ing information regarding the wherea-
M5- "bouts of Villa. General Pershing has
Kf not been heard from since the dls-
Whr patch in, which he told the search for
if! Villa in tne Guerrero district was bc-
K ing continued.
k If It Is proven beyond doubt that
I Villa is on his way south, perhaps
1 toward Parral and oven Torrcon, the
1 campaign against him connot be car-
1 rled much farther unless the railroads
V between Chihuahua and the border
B . are made available for the movement
of troops, or enough more troops arc
J ' sent into Mexico to strengthen greatly
I the lines of communication. This was
frankly stated at General Funston's
IS headquarters where It also was intl-
mated that representations to this et-
m feet would ho made to the war de-
S ' partment.
M . All Available Troops Dispatched.
jM Witk the dispatch of the remain-
mW ing detachments of the Fifth cavalry
w and Twenty-fourth infantry from CO'
Mm lumbus, General FunBton haa sent la
Al io Mexico all the troops immediately
mm available. The actual number ol
IIS troops operating in Mexico never has
K& been made public for military reasons
HI but army officers regard the numbei
f as altogether inadequate.
Mf. Staff officers explained today thai
HklS since the beginning of the chase th(
J fcltuatlou had' become so altered tha1
fr' jt uas become imperative that a shor
R cut to the field of operations be inad
H or that the roundabout road now fol
H, lowed he guarded by a much heavioi
H force.
c: f it is true that Villa has goni
south of Chihuahua the Americans
will have to swing their line of com
munication sharply to the east and
then be prepared "to move an indef
inite distance southward again. If the
railroads, or particularly, the Juarez
Chihuahua lino of the National rail
ways is used a more direct and more
satisfactory' line could be established.
New Troops Ordered South.
El Paso. Texas, April 4 With Fran
cisco Villa still In flight and his
whereabouts apparently unknown to
his pursuers, the campaign of the
United States army now scouring
northern Chihuahua, Mexico, for the
bandit and his -followers, entered to
day what .may be considered as a
second and broader phase. New troops
have been ordered to depart from tho
military base at Columbus, Is M , into
Mexico to protect the lengthening line
communications which is rapidly be
coming attenuated as the flying col
umns of American cavalry advance
southward.
Villa hns been reported at many
points within the broad zone that
ranges from ,the Raon country to the
Benito Juarez district. The last Mex
ican report was that Villa was south
of Satevo and heading for Parral but
this could not be confirmed. The dif
ficulties of the pursuit of Villa have
multiplied because of the misleading
information given by Mexican peons
to General Pershing's men.
Large Forces 'Wll Be Needed.
Army men here believe that as Vil
la's movements southward with hjs
trail covered for the tlme'at least "it
will be necessary lo establish new
army bases and strongly guard the
line of communications. To do this
large forces of American reinforce
ments will bo needed. Meanwhile the
use by tho American army of tho
Mexico Northwestern railroad for the
transportation of supplies becomes
more Important
Already tho question has arisen
how far the pursuit of -Villa will pro
ceed and it is believed here that the
developments within the next week
or ten days will bear on the answer.
Goes Through San Pedro Valley.
If Villa has led his forces to the
south of Satevo, it is likely that he
traveled through the valley of the
San Pedro river. In this event ho has
passed the Los Remedies ranch own
ed by William Benton, an Englishman
whom ho murdered in Juarez about
two years ago.
After Satevo his trail is believed
here to have led south toward Parral.
Durango In Rough Country.
Well Informed persons here believe
that Torreon is Villa's present objec
tive but after that he will proceed to
Durango city. The country In that
section 1b very broken and remote
from all lines of communication. Here,
it Is pointed out, Villa could spread
any story he pleased In order to rally
the Ignorant inhabitants to his stand
ard. The American troops will not be
without forage and supplies however,
If they follow the trail through the
San Pedro valley. This Is a rich agri
cultural section where there would be
plenty of supplies and water.
The great difficulty would be the
lengthening line of communications
-from Columbus, N. M., to Parral,
which by the army's line of march is a
conservative 400 miles.
Railroad Situation Unchanged.
flnnornl npnrirft "Roll .Tr nnmmnnrl-
ing the Fort Bliss base, conferred
today saying later that there had
been no development In the situation
regarding tho use of the Mexican
Northwestern railroad for the ship
ment of supplies to the American
troops.
Private James T. Kakley, of Troop
K, Thirteenth cavalry, died at the
Fort Bliss hospital today. Thla Is
the third death among tho expedition
ary forces.
oo
GENERAL REYES
WILL SURRENDER
Sends Letter to Carranza Com
mander Offering to Give Up
Self and Forces If Given
Amnesty.
i
s Torreon, Mexico, April 4. General
j Canuto Reyes, commanding tho Villa
- forces in this locality, has sent a let
ter to General Trevino, Carranza com-
t mander, offering to surrender with all
3 his forces If given amnesty. This in
t formation was given out today by
t General Trevino.
3 Carranza authoritiea here say that
- the surrender of Reyes would break
r organized resistance" to the de facto
government and end the hopes of
3 1 Villa. There is a disposition, how-
ever to accept his offer conservatively
as the letter says six weeks will bo
necessary for General Reyes to notify
all his followers and there is a possi
bility that this may be a ruse to gain
time for Villa.
It has been rumored Intcly that
Villa was making his way to the north
of Torreon in order to effect a Junc
tion with Reyes.
In the letter to Trevino the signa
ture of which has been positively
Identified, Reyes says he deplores the
useless continuance of a bloody and
hopeless struggle.
Trevino to Issue Proclamations.
In answer General Trevino said to
duy he was preparing proclamations
which would allow all bandits ten
days in which to come in and give
up their horses and saddles. He said
tho Vlllistas will respond readily.
General Reyes Is the recognized
chieftain of the small bands operat
ing In the Laguna and Chihuahua dis
tricts, Including those of Controras
and Hilaro Rodriguez.
There have been no signs lately of
aggression by Contreras in the Nazas
district. This probably is due to the
fact that strong Carranza forces now
are located at Velardena.
oo
FOLLY EXPLAINED
Charges Made in U. S. Senate
Against British Examination
of Neutrals Are Denied.
London, March 17. (Correspond
ence of tho Associated Press). In
reply to an inquiry of tho Associated
Press In regard to the charges made
In the United States senate that the
British censorship was being used for
ha nitrnnon nf rroiiiJrirr trorlo tn(Yr.
V..V jW..J-FWWw' Wl. UlillllK bKIUU ...&-.
mation for the use of British traders,
Lord Ncwlon of tho foreign office
made the following statement:
"The American press recently re
ported certain statements made in the
senate referring to the censorship of
mails in the United Kingdom, and ex
tracts were quoted by Senator Walsh
and others from-a confidential circiF
lar Issued by the 'British postal cen
sor to his examiners of letter malls.
Tho conclusion drawn from these in
structions was that his majesty's gov
ernment are utilizing tho censorship
to discover the trade connections of
neutral foreign firms in order to
wrest their legitimate business from
them in the British Interests.
How Examinations Are Conducted.
"That this deduction 1b entirely er
roneous may be best demonstrated by
examination of paragraph two of this
confidential circular. This lays down
that the examination of letters In the
trade branch Is conducted with a view
to the following points and to the
following points alone:
"A Direct trading with the enemy.
"B Indirect trading with the en
emy. "C Trading by unauthorized per
sons In the British empli-o in muni
tions of war.
"D The discovery of intermediar
ies, that Is, evidence that persons, or
firms In neutral countries are acting
aa intermediaries in foreign countries
for correspondence and business.
"E The procuring of statistics, but
it is laid down that his subject has
reference to the two particulars of
direct specials or shipments on
through bills of lading to neutral
countries in Europe of those com
modities upon which from time to
time the trade branch is instructed
to furnish a statistical report
"These commodities are laid in
paragraph 11 and consist of the fol
lowing: "Cocoa, cotton, cotton yarn, waste
and thread; fuel oils and lubricating
oils; hldeB, skins and leather; maize,
metals and ores of all kinds; nitrates,
oil cakes including poonac; packers
products (1 meat, bacon, lard, jus,
oleo or any edible animal fats) ; rosin,
tannine: extracts, wool and such other
articles as may be added from time
to time.
To Exclude Articles From Germany.
"It will be observed that theso com
modities are those which It is the
specific object of tho allied govern
ments to exclude from Germany. Tho
object of extracting the particulars
referred to Is to obtain some Idea
of tho quantities of the Important
goods which are coming forward from
all overseas countries to the neutral
countries adjoining Germany. It is
hoped that in this way any abnormal
movement will be detected sooner
than it can he revealed through for
mal statistical returns.
'F i'ue transfer of enemy steam
ers to a neutral flag.
"G Patent specifications, since re
cent patent specifications, or particu
lars of inventions, may not bo trans
mitted from the United Kingdom
when the receipt of such Is likely to
benefit tho enemy.
H Tho exposure of attempts to
deceive tho customs or defraud the
revenue or to take any course of ac
tion ngalnst public interest or the in
terest of tho allied powers.
"I The intercepting of any infor
mation of Interest concerned with
trading or finance In relation to the
war, such as the economic condition
of enemy countries, or the supply of,
or demand for, or price of important
commodities and munitions.
Information for War Purposes Only.
"A careful perusal of these instruc
tions "will show that there is no ques
tion of information gleaned from the
censorship of Buch correspondence in
i the United Kingdom being used for
trade purposes and tho instructions
are purely departmental regulations
for the guidance of officers concerned
in tho censorship. Tho sole objects
of theso regulations are military'' and
are aimed at preventing news of mili
tary Interest from reaching the en
emy and to place obstacles In the way
of enemy trade."
rvi
MERCIER WRITES
TO HIS PEOPLE
Cardinal's Letter of Encourage
ment to Belgians Arouses
Wrath of Governor
General Von Bising.
PRIMATE THREATENED
Man Who Printed Pastoral
Communication Sentenced
by Germans to Year's
Imprisonment.
London, April 4, 810 a. m Cardi
nal Mercler's pastoral letter which
I evoked a remonstrance from Governor
General von Bising last month, has
just been received here After ex
pressing joy at being back among
his fellow countrymen and stating
that his Journey to Rome had been
blessed beyond what he had dared
to hope, the Belgian cardinal turning
to the position of Belgium said:
"Let us even suppose that the fin
ish or the Issue of the gigantic war
now being fought In Europe and Asia
Minor Bhould bo uncertain, one fact
is already established In civilization
and history the moral triumph of
Ljeigium in unibuu wiui yuui kuis
and government you have made Im
mense sacrifices for your country.
Peoples abroad understand your spirit
of sacrifice; you are admired and
your generation has taken its place
gloriously In history. Is not that a
conquest my brethren? Are you not
.the most jrlpxiaps ot conquerors?
'Sympathizes With People.
"T know that you weep, that the
hearts of mothers and wives are brok
en, that lives aro being lost on the
banks of the Ysor, The Imprisonment
of our nation on our own soil Is sadly
prolonged.
"We shall win, hut we are not yet at
the end of our sufferings. France,
Great Britain and Russian have pledg
ed themselves to mako no peace until
Belgium has recovered her entire in
dependence and been largely Indemni
fied Italy In turn has adhered to this
pledge. Our future is not in doubt,
but wo must heprepared for it"
Von Bislnp Vigorously Protests.
On March 20 a letter addressed by
Governorf-General von Bising to Cardi
nal Mercler in connection with the
latter's pastoral letter was published.
The letter said in part:
"Your eminence, In pastoral letters,
induces in political statements against
which I decidedly protest It Is quite
Inexcusable that your eminence
should raise unjustified hopes regard
ing the issue cf the war. Thus, for
Instance, your eminence has mention
ed Inaccurate utterances of persons
who are not In touch with events and
who certainly cannot he called ex
perts. You speak of the possibility
that a decision such as desire could
bo expected by the spreading of di
seases. By such arbitrariness you cause
among a credulous population noxious
excitement and Induce them to oppose
the administration work of those who
are in occupation of the country. Es
pecially In-admlsslble In a pastoral let
ter is a hint at menace to the relig
ious liberty of tho people of tho occu
pied territory I warn your
eminence to desist from political ac
tivity. A report published in Berlin re-
rmr-rHntT fowllnol Tftoi''a nrintnrill
(j'""'b "a'ul-i i-K-iwx' ,.
letter said that according to advices
from Gorman officials In Brussels tho
cardinal slated In It that If he once
doubted tho final victory, his faith
had now been restored as a result of
his conversations with North Ameri
cans and South Americans who had
inspired him with unshakeable confi
dence In Belgium's victory.
The Koelnlsche Zeltung announced
on March 31, according to a Havas
dispatch from Berne, that the printer
who printed Cardinal Mercler's pas
toral letter had been sentenced to a
year's Imprisonment,
Rome, April 3, 7: Go p. m., via Paris,
4:10 a. m. The text of Cardinal Mer
cler's pastoral letter is awaited here
with keen interest and there aro
many conjectures aa to why the print
ed copies which tho cardinal was to
have sent the Vatican have not reach
ed their destination. The text of tho
document was made known In Rome
to certain church dignitaries and wns
considered exceedingly moderate. It
1b said no allusion whatever was
made to Germany in a direct "vvay,
through a sense of courteous recog
nition by the cardinal of tho fact
that the German authorities had not
prevented him from visiting the
pope. Tho document as seen here,
was in two parts the first dealing
with the pope's attitude toward Bel
glum as expressed to Cardinal Mer
cler, the text of which was submitted
to the pope himself and tho second
dealing with matters purely ecclesias
tical concerning Belgium and civil
ians. It was Indeed noted that so
Inocuous was the pastoral that it
LOOKS AFTER WANTS
OF YANKEE TROOPS
IN MEXICAN DESERT
CoL Henry L. Rogers.
Col. Henry L. Rogers, quarter
master of the cavalry division in
Mexico, has nothing to do but solve
al? transportation problems; supply
cavalrymen with animals; supply the
animals with forage; furnish the sol
diers with clothing, camp and garri
son equipment; provide for roads,
railways and bridges; superintend
the commissary and take charge of
all other details not specifically as
signed to anybody else.
seemed to lack the strength and vigor
of his previous utterances.
nn
I), S. TO MAKE
Great Britain Refuses to Give
up aermans, Atismans ana
Turks Taken From
American Steamer.
BRITISH CLAIM RIGHT
State Department to Call for
Unconditional Release of
Prisoners, According to
Many Precedents.
Washington, April 4. Great Bri
tain's refusal to release, tho 38 Ger
mans, Austrians and Turks taken
from the American steamer China
near Sbang Hal was received today
at the state department and will be
given out for publication later.
The British note Is understood to
insist upon the right of that govern
ment to seize enemy subjects return
ing to take part in the war.
This, it Is understood, the United
States is prepared to dispute vigor
ously. The Intention of the state de
partment Is to demand the uncondi
tional release of the prisoners accord
ing to many precedents.
nn
IS NOT DOUBTED
Neutrality of Holland Has
Been Assured Respect
What Germany Will Do
a Question.
Amsterdam, April 4, via London,
7:30 a. m. "I do not -for a moment
suggest there is a possibility that
Great Britain Intends to land her now
armies on the Dutch Moast" said For
mer Minister of War Colyn today In
an Interview roirardine: recent mvster-
lous military preparations in Holland.
"Wo have tho assurance of Britain
that she will respect our neutrality
and we rely on that assurance. But
tho question Is what does Germany
think of this?
"If the Germans begin seriously to
be afraid of such a contingency, name
ly tho landing of British troops In Hol
land, what lnfluonce will that have on
Germany's attitude toward us? If
Germany judges our defensive capa
city inadequate and considers that a
British invasion into Germany through
Holland is to be feared, would It then
be strange if we were approached
from the German side with proposals
to which we cannot submit, because
they would mean the abandonment of
our neutrality toward the allies?"
Jonkerr Colyn added that there was
an increasing possibility of conflict
on both sides and while a waiting at
titude might be adopted toward Great
Britain something positive should be
done with regard to Germany. He sug
gested the strengthening of the Dutch
forces In order to mako it clear to
Germany that Holland has the power
and the Intention to prevent a menace
to Germany's open flank.
DAY IN CONGRESS
Washington, April 4. Senate: Met
at noon.
Continued consideration of the
army re-organization bill.
House: Mot at 11 a. m.
Debate on rivers and harbors bill
resumed.
a
t
STRONG FRENCH POSITIONS ARE 1
CAPTURED BY THE GERMANS 1
Points Southwest of Douaumont and Northeast of Verdun Vll
Fall Into Hands of Teutonic Troops British Recapture '.H
Crater at St. Eloi, South of Ypres Bitter Fighting '
Costs French Extremely Heavy Sacrifices Ac- 'mmW
cording to Berlin Reports. .H
Rome, April 4, via London, 2 : 25 p. m. -Wireless reports H
from Zurich state that Holland has closed her German frontier
and massed all her available forces there. v
Paris, April 4, 12:10 p. m. No In-'
fantry attacks were made last night
by the Germans In the Verdun region,
the war office announced thlB after
noon. The French continued their
heavy bombardment along the Douau-mont-Vnux
front, northeast of Verdun.
The response was feeble. There were
violent artillery exchanges near Avo
court and Malancourt.
The text of the statement follows:
In the Argonne district we have
bombarded certain of ttie German
positions, particularly in the region
of Montefalcon and Malancourt
"West of the Meuse there has been
artillery' fighting of considerable vio
lence along the front from Avocourt
as fqr as Malancourt East of the
Meuse the night passed relatively
quiet
"The Germans have made no at
tack against the front between Douau
mont and Vaux, re-established by our
counter attacks of yesterday.
"French batteries have been particu
larly active In firing upon enemy posi
tions In this region. The enemy has
responded but feebly.
"East of the forest of Le Pretre a
strong reconnaissance by the enemy
has been dispersed by our fire.
"In Alsace, French batteries were
successful in shelling a German sup
ply train on the highway between
Thann and Muelhausen."
Berlin, April 4, via London, 3:20 p.
m. Strong French positions south
west of Douaumont and in the Call
lette wood northeast of Verdun, have
been taken by German troops, tho war
office announced today.
Recapture by the British of a mine
crater at St Elol, south of Ypres,
which the Germans had been occupy
ing, is also reported in tho official
statement
"After powerful artillery prepara
tion the British have taken possession
of the crater south of St Elol which
we took from them on the 28th of
March.
Strong Positions Captured.
"In the region of the fortress of
Douaumont our troops, after bitter
fighting, captured on April 2 some
strong French defense positions south
west and south of the fortress and in
Calllette wood. They repulsed from
the captured positions all the enemy's
counter attacks which continued Into
the night. Employing exceedingly
strong forces and at tho cost of ex
tremely heavy sacrifices, the French
repeatedly and fruitlessly stormed
the defense positions which they had
lost in Calllette wood.
"During our attacks on April 2 we
captured In unwounded prisoners, 19
officers and 745 men and eight ma
chine guns.
"Eastern theater: The situation Is
unchanged. The enemy artillery has
shown Increased activity only north
of Vidzy and between Narocz and
WIsenlew lakes."
Review of War Situation.
There is a slight lull In the battle
lading around Verdun, following the
J violent fighting of yesterday by which
the French pushed their way back to
'the northern outskirts of Calllaux
wood between Douauniont and Vaux
and regained a footing in the village
of Vaux Itself. No Infantry engage
ments occurred last night, according
to the afternoon Paris bulletin.
Northwest of the fortress, tho ar
tillery on both sides has been active
ly employed along the Avocourt-Ma-lancourt
front where the salient In
tho lino is gradually being straight
ened out by the southward push ot
the Germans.
A British powder factory In Kent
has blown up, causing the death or
iniiiTv nf fin np.rsona The ministry
of muntions declares the explosion
was purely accidental.
Norway, says a Copenhagen dis
patch, has asked Germany to Investi
gate ' whether German submarines
have been responsible for the sinking
of the largo number of Norwegian
vessels.
The Berlin war offlco In today's
official statement made its first men
tion of the recent drive northeast of
Verdun which penetrated the French
lines In Calllette wood and nearby.
The statement does not concede the
French claim to recapture of any part
of tho territory lost, declaring that
their cduntcr attacks were altogether
fruitless and cost them heavily in
casualties.
British Capture Mine Crater.
Tho British claim to have captured
a mine crater near St Elol, south of
Ypres, Belgium, Is conceded by Ber
lin. Rome has received reports through
Zurich that tho German frontier of
Holland had been closed by the Dutch
government and that all available
forces of tho Netherlands had been
massed there.
London, April 4, 11:15 a. m. The
arrival at Bombay of Baron Chelms
ford, who in January was appointed
viceroy of India in succession to Bar
on Hardlnge, is related in a Reuter
dispatch from Bombay. Baron Chelms
ford was received by the ruling chiefs
and the naval, military and civil au
thorities. London, April 4, 12:19 p. m. The
explosioa of a powder factory in Kent .
has caused the death or Injury of 200 IjH
persons, it was announced officially 'H
today. IH
The following statement was given H
"The ministry of munitions reports 'H
with great regret that during the jH
week-end a serious fire broke out in '1
a powder factory which led to a series HH
of explosions in the works. The fire H
was purely accidental. It was dlscov- H
creJ at midday and the laBt of the -v
explosions took place shortly after ,H
two in the afternoon. 'H
"The approximate number of cas- VH
ualties is 200." ifl
General Ivanoff Retires. JH
Petrograd, April 4, via London, 2:15 f'mW
p. m. General I, N. Ivanoff has re- ll
tired -from the command of the Rus rH
slan armies in Volhynia and Gallclan -JH
and Emperor Nicholas has addressed 'lH
a complimentary rescript to him. zl
General Ivanoff's successor has not H
been announced. H
English to Salvage Zeppelin. H
London, April 4, 4: OS a. m. Tho jH
British Aeronautical institute has ask- H
ed the government's permission to H
undertake, at its own. expense, tho
salvage of the Zeppelin L-15, which is
lying in shallow water off the mouth IH
of the Thames. The institute be- H
11 eves that if the salvage is under- irH
taken by aircraft experts, "tho Zep- M
pelln can be saved, rebuilt and launch- I
ed against the enemy witihn. three "
months." '
oo H
RUSSIA SENDS
OUT PROTEST!
Formal Note Is Sent to All mM
Neutral Nations Regarding Ifll
Destruction of Hos- H
pital Ship. -jH
VESSEL AT ANCHOR M
Crime a Flagrant Infraction of M
International Law and Com- H
mon Act of Piracy. H
Petrograd, April 4, via London, 4:55 H
a. m, The following is the text of
. the formal note which tho Russian
government has sent to all the neutral H
governments, protesting against the
destruction of the Russian hospital
ship Portugal: H
"The Russian hospital ship Portu-
gal, with a Franco-Russian crew and a
proper sanitary staff on board, was
cruising in tho Black sea, its destina-
tion being Ofow. On March 30, at H
S:S0 o'clock In the morning the ship jH
stopped off Cape Fatleh in order to H
permit one of tho vessels accompany- jH
ing her to pump out water which was Jl
hindering progress. At this moment '9m
a submarine approached the station- xltMm
ary ship, circled around her and sud- 1
denly fired two torpedoes from a dls- 'H
tance of about 50 meters. ql
Red Cross Doctors and Nurses Drown. jH
"One of the torpedoes missed, but 1
the other exploded in the engine room H
of the vessel, which sank at once. A
Russian torpedo boat, which happened ,'H
to he In the neighborhood, was able 'il
to save 15S persons out of the 273 H
aboard. All the others, including !l
fourteen ladies of tho Red Cross, 50 ll
doctors and male and -female nurses, :
"The Portugal bore all the dlstlnc- '
tive signs prescribed by the special 1
agreement which was signed at Tho H
Hague in 1908, and which applied to ll
naval warfare, the principles of the f'l
Geneva convention. An exchango of !-
notes between tho Russian, Turkish
and the Bulgarian governments ac- -2
ceptlng these principles, guarantee 3
similar immunities to hospital ships In (
the Black sea. 'jl
"The circumstances under which ll
this attack was made exclude all pos- '1
slbillty of a misYike having been' :
made by the submarine. It was a 'H
deliberate attack. fl
Common Act of Piracy. 1'H
"The imperial government formally . H
protests to the governments with ;. H
which it Is at war against this new 1
violation of the customs of war and &
against persistent contempt for con- tl
ventlous and treaties. The govern- UH
ment sees in this crime, not only a H
flagrant Infraction of international
law but a common net of piracy, of H
which It makes tho civilized world ,H
the judge."
The noto is accompanied with a re- H
quest to the governments of the Unit- $H
ed States and of Spain to bring the 4
protest to tho attention of tho Ger- mm
man, Austrian and Turkish govern- 5
ments. 1
oo imtm
Visitor C. A. Brown, traveling mm
freight and passenger agent of the Jl
Southern Pacific, with headquarters Tl
at Reno, Nev., was a visitor yester- H
day at the office of Commercial mWM
Agent M. D. Shorts, jH
