AILY
VOL. XX NO. 17.
15AHKK, VKKMOXT, TUESDAY, APJUL i, 1910.
I'ltICK, ONE CKXT.
THE
BARRE
TIMES
200 VICTIMS
OF HOLOCAUST
IN POWDER SHOP
A British Factory in Kent,
England, Was Blown Up
After Fire Had Broken
Out, Series of Explosions
Continuing for Some Time
OFFICIAL STATEMENT
CALLS IT ACCIDENT
The Fire Was Discovered
About the Middle ofHhe
Day and Lasted for Sev
eral Hours Last Explo
sion Occurred at 2 O'clock
London, April 4. An ' explosion in a
powder factory in Kent caused defcth or
injury to 200 persons, it was officially
announced to-day. The statement said:
"The ministry of munitions reports
with great regret that during the
week-end a serious fire broke out in
a powder factory which led to serious
explosions. The fire was purely ac
cidental. It was discovered at mid
day, and the last of the explosions
occurred shortly after 2 o'clock in the
afternoon. The approximate casual
tie were 200."
suffered heavy losses without having been j
able to fight. i
"To-day the bombardment was quit !
violent in tne region ot ikus Jiourrus, our,
there was no infantry action.
"East of the Mouse our counter at
tacks developed success. In the course
of the day we drove back the enemy as
far as the northern outskirts of the
Caillctte wood and to the north of the
Vaux pond. A last counter attack, par
ticularly spirited, enabled us to reoccupy
the west part of the village of Vaux,
which we had evacuated.
"In the Woevre there was intense ar
tillery activity in the Moulainville see-
tor.
"In retaliation for the bombardment
of Dunkirk by a Zeppelin last night 31
allied aeroplanes dropped on the enemy
cantonments at Keyon, Essen, Terrest
and Houthulst (in Belgium), 83 lhclls
of large calibre. Last night one of our
squadron bombed the. station at Con-
nans.
"To-dav numerous aerial eombnts were
fought with success in the region of Ver
dun. Our aviators brought down four
German aeroplanes; other enemy ma
chinery took to flight or were forced to
land."
MORE TROOPS
BEING SENT
INTO MEXICO
THOUGHT TO BE INSANE.
FRENCH POSITIONS
NEAR DOUAUMONT
WERE CAPTURED
Hodson-Schiller Sent to Institution for
Observation.
New York, April 4. Clarence Reginald
Hodson, alias Ernest Schiller, who sin
gle handed took possession of the Brit
ish freight steamship Matoppo on the
high seas, was committed to the psyahol
ogic ward at Bellevue hospital last night
for observation. Tlodson, who United
States Attorney P. Snowden Marshall
earlier in the day announced, had not
committed a breach of federal laws with
in this district, was taken in charge by
District Attorney Rwann after his re
lease by the federal authorities.
Hodson with George Haller and Otto
Will Be Used to Protect Line
of Communication from
Columbus, New Mexico, to
Pershing's Column as It
Pursues Villa
BANDIT LOCATED
NEAR CHIHUAHUA
The Government Officials at
Washington Do Not Be
lieve He Is Wounded, Be
cause 200-Mile Trip from
Guerrero Would Have
Been Impossible
San Antonio, T
admission of the
fled far beyond the A
.Official
. Villa has
.:a forces and
Milleder, arrested in connection with an ! ig now operating south of Chihuahua
alleged plot to damage the steamship j City was made at Funston.s headquarters
The German War Office Claims Success
Northeast of Verdun Admits
Small British Success
Near St. Eloi.
Berlin, via London, April 4. Ptrong
positions southwest of Douamont and
Caillctte wood, northeast of Verdun have
been taken by Herman troops, the war
olfice announced to-day.
The capture by the British of a mine
crater at St. Eloi, south of Ypres, which
the Germans have been occupying, was
also recorded.
HOLLAND MASSES
ALL HER TROOPS
ON GERMAN LINE
Wireless Reports from Zurich to Rome
States That the Dutch Have Closed
Their Frontier Bordering
Germany.
Rome, via London? April 4. Wireless
reports from Zurich state that Holland
has closed the German frontier and has
mossed all her available forces there.
in the district attorney's office. Later
Hodson was taken before a magistrate
who committed him to Bellevue for ten
days.
District Attorney Swann said he had
learned that Hodson was born in Pet
rograd, Russia, of an English futher ami
a German mother. He was in the Eng
lish army for a time for three months,
was at the military cat at Salisbury
Plains. He came to New ork in March
1015, and had worked since in factories
and on farms.
The police say they have learned that
Hodson's parents and two sisters now
ftre in England. His father previous to
the declaration of war was manager of
cotton mills in Moscow. According to
information gathered by the police Hod
son was turned out of his father's home
during a quarrel which arose when Hod
son brought a tramp into the house
while his father was entertaining a dis
tinguished guest and insisted that the
tramp should be treated on the same
equality as the guest.
to-day.
COURT HALTED BY LYNCHING.
MANY WERE KILLED.
During Zeppelin Raid Over a Town in
Scotland.
London, April 4. A Scottish corres
pondent in a dispatch concerning Sun
day night's air raid says:
"Scotland had its first experience with
a Zeppelin raid last (Sunday) night. A
Zeppelin appeared ten minutes before,
midnight and circulated over the town
for forty minutes, dropping many bombs.
Warning of the enemy's approach was
given the people by the electric lights
being cut off. Everybody remained calm
and many persons ventured into the
streets to get a better view of the raid
ers. No building of public importance
was struck, but much damage was done
in the residential quarter.
"Five person were killed in a pasage
leading to j tenement building, whose
occupants were obliged to make their
exit by means of tire escapes. Two ser
vant girls employed in a doctor's hovic
were killed, while a mati was killed in
the street. Two hotels were struck and
several persons were killed or injured,
A bomb in one instance penetrated
building from the roof to the basement,
Mob Raided Courthouse and Seized the
Accused Negro.
Idabel, Okla., April 4. At the con
clusion of testimony yesterday at the
preliminary hearing of Oscar Martin, a
negro, charged with attacking a white
girl, a mob of 500 stormed the court
room, seized the prisoner and hanged
him from a back balcony of the court
house.
Ineffectual attempts to seize the negro
had been made previously. Martin was
arrested Iriday in connection with as
sault on Edna Murphy
Washington, D. C, April 4. General
Funston advised the war department to
day that he was sending more troops into
Mexico from Columbus in order to pro
tect the line of communication with
Pershing. He did not state whether ad
ditioual troops had been sent forward to
the military liase.
So far Funston has not suggested the
reinforcement of Pershing's forces except
merely to protect the extended commit
nications lines, and there was no con
firmation to-day of border reports that
an extensive addition to the fighting col
umn would be required.
Villa Located.
Private advices seeming to show that
Villa had been definitely located south
of Chihuahua were received to-day by
the state department and were immedi
ately turned over to the war department
for transmission to General Pershing.
To-dav's official dispatches varied re
garding the reported injuries of the ban
dit chief. At the state department those
in close touch with the chase doubled if
he was hurt. They pointed out that
since Villa's fight on March 27 with the
Carranza garrison at Guerrero he had
apparently traveled ahout 200 miles
through mountain paths over the rough- I
est of country and. if he was wounded
such a feat would be almost impossible
OFFERS TO SURRENDER.
43 CORPORATIONS DIED
Because They Did Not Comply with Ver
mont Requirements. -
North field, April 4.-Forty-three Ver
mont corporations censed to exist on
April 1, last, because of failure to pay
their annu'.il license tax or to pay their
annual charter tax to the state. Of the
total number, 3i failed to pay their li
cense taxes.
Those included in the last-named di
vision, as reported by State Tax Com
missioner diaries A. Tlumley, were a
follows: Allen-Sanborn company, Chel
sea; Beecber Slate company, West Paw
let; Bradford Agricultural & Trotting
association, Bradford ; the Brown Manu
facturing company. Rich ford; Chrysotile
Asbestos corporation, Ixwcll; division
No. 1 of Windsor County Ancient Order
of Hibernians, LudJow; Domina Manu
facturing company, Enosburg; Dorset
Mountain Marble compapy, East Dorset;
Farview Casualty company, Barre; Fow
ler Bottling company, Burlington; Gran
ite City Coal Yard. Inc., Barre City;
Granite City General Store, Bsirre City;
Gerald Holmes Baking company, Barre
City; F. M. Hunt Piano company. Or
leans; L. N. Kellogg, Inc., Charlotte;
Killington Produce company, Rutland;
Lake Bomoscen Slate company, Fair Ha
ven; Lukeview club, Woodstock; lng 4
Goodhue Manufacturing company, Bur
lington; the Milton Co-operative Cream
ery company, Milton; Missisquoi Mineral
Springs company, Sheldon; the .National
Flooring company, St. Johnsbury; New
ark Lumber company, Island Pond; the
Newport Co-operative association, New
port; Northfield Turning 4 Novelty com
pany, Northlield; I eru t ticese company,
Pern; Bandolph Jce company, Kandolph;
Buthind Opera House "association, Rut
hind; Scotch Hill Slate company, Fair
laven; Springfield Printing company,
Springfield; I'nited Talc Products com
pany. Troy; the Vermont & Chicago
Granite company, llardw-ick; the Ver
mont Granite Quarries company, Hard
wick; the Windsor County Paper com
pany, Springfield; f Winooski Valley
Creamery association. Waterbury.
Those which failed to pay their charter
CROWD'S FURY
SPENT ITSELF
Haverhill's Night of Rioting
Evidenced by Trail of
Broken Glass
CITY HALL STORMED;
ALSO RESIDENCES
Protest Against a Proposed
Meeting to Oppose Secta
rian Appropriations
Haverhill, Mass., April 4. A trail of
broken glass was the only visible evi
dence to-day of the disturbance last
night when a mob held the city in it
power for Beveral hours and smashed
windows at will. The fury of the crowd
was finally spent in the early hours this
morning and before daylight the streets
were deserted and the local militia com
pany returned to its armory.
The cause of the riot was the objec
tion of msny residents to the granting
by the city government, of a permit to
Thomas A. Leyden of Somerville to de
liver an address in the city hall on sec
tarian questions, particularly regarding
appropriations for sectarian schools. Lev-
den endeavored to deliver an address
Sunday but the demonstrations at that
time forced a postponement to last night,
when a throng surrounded the city hall
and again prevented. The meeting was
taxes were: Fireside Insurance company, i regarded as anti-Catholic.
St. .lohnsbury; Melior Slate company, I The cif hall was stormed and the
iiomes ot several prominent citizens, were
GRANITE MEN CONFER
WITH INSURANCE
EXCHANGE MEN
Several Representatives of Boston Organ
ization Came to Barre To-day and
Went Over the Details of
Barre's Grievance Over
Rates.
Poultney; the itettowee Realty com
pany, Inc., Dorset; Nathaniel Slate com
pany. Inc., Poultney; Otter Creek Elec
tric Railway company, Bennington; Tin
mouth Power company, Bennington;
Woodstock Ice company, Inc., Woodstock.
BURIAL AT MAPLEWO0D.
General Reyes Commanding Villa Force
About Torreon.
daughter of a mill employe at Bis
marck, where the ajtack occurred.
The lynching happened during a lull
in the hearing before Judge Williams.
All evidence had been put in and the
court wag engaged in considering it at
the time the rush on the court room was
made.
Torreon, Mex., April 4. General Can
uto Reyes, commanding Villa forces in
this, locality, has sent a letter to Gen
oral Tl-Bi-inrt 1 1 . 11 ' i rr ii j .i nn m ri ti n. I
13-year-old j offprj to ,,llrrf,m-,,r an i,js forces if
AGREE ON ANTI
DUMPING PLAN
President and Kitchin Deride on Method
to Protect U. S. from Post
war Activity.
given amnesty. This information was
given out to-day by Trcvino.
STRIKE IN CLYDE
PLANTS IS ENDED
Settlement is Largely Due to Amalga
j mated Society of Engineers.
Funeral of Clinton M. Bassett Was Held
at His Late Home.
The funeral of Clinton M. Bassett, who
passed away at his home, 47 Summer
street, Saturday morning after a long
illnes. was held at the house Monday
afternoon at 2 o'clock, Rev. Bert .1. Le
high, pastor of the First Baptist church,
officiating. The bearers were: Forest
Bassett, Robert Ikissett, Earle Bassett
and Frank Hrtssett, sons of the deceased,
and his brothers. Burton Bassett and
Hayes Bassett. Among those who came
from a distance to attend the services
were: Hayes bassett of Cabot ana Jlr.
and Mrs. P. M. BeekVr and daughter of ,
South Rvegate. Interment was made in
Maplewood cemetery.
Floral tributes included the following.
Roses. Mr. and Mrs. .1. L. Mead, Mr. and
Mrs. .f. F. Veino, Mrs. Carrie Owen. Mr.
and Mrs. W. .1. Hutchinson, Mir. and Mrs.
J.. Hutchinson and son. Mr. and Mrs.
Charles Hutchinson, Mrs. Alice Hutchin
son. Mr. and Mrs. A. Clark and family,
Mr. Bruce and family, Mr. and Mrs. 11.
Bradley, Mr. and Mrs. Clark and family,
Mr. and Mrs. P. M. Carr; pillow, family
and mother; carnations, Mr. and Mrs.
Burton Bassett, Wayne and Emma Mar
tin, Mrs. John Bassett, Mr. and Mrs. A.
L. Saunders. Mr. and Mrs, W. S. Patch,
Bethany class: mixed flowers, Philathea
class of the Baptist church; carnations,
Mr. and Mr. P. M. Berkley and family.
attacked. Every window in the city hall
was smashed, and Leyden was beseiged
in a room of the building. Believing that
the police were not able to cope with the
situation Mayor Bartiett ordered out the
local company of militia, and at mid
night the militia drew itself up before
the city hall, while a crowd of more than
10,000 people, many of them shouting
threats against Leyden, surrounded them
Meanwhile, acts of violence continued In
many parts of the city
The plans for the meeting received
wide publicity a week ago, when the
mayor's veto forbidding the use of the
city hall for such a gathering wa over
ruled by the board of aldermen. It was
announced that Leyden proposed to dis
cuss, among other things, state appropri
ations for sectarian school purposes, I
subject which figured in legislative de
bate last winter and was later made a
political campaign issue. Leyden is said
to have been formerly a Catholic priest
the ofnefcla announced later that Ley
den would not be permitted to hold the
meetings scheduled for this afternoon
and evening and that if he returned to
the city he would be liable to arrest
for inciting to riot. One official said
Leyden told him that he had no desire to
return.
TRYING TO COLLECT INSURANCE.
Widow
and
Three Children
$15,000.
Sue for
REMAINS TAKEN TO WILIAMST0WN
An insurance policy on the life of Or
vie M. Jones, late of Warren, was the
basis for a suit w hich was tried in Wash
ington cnuntv court to-day, when court
assembled after the week-end recess.
The case was brought by the widow, Jen
nie L. Jones, in behalf of herself and
her three children, Mrs. Mildred S. Pray,
Merritt A. Jones and Marion E. Jones,
against the Mutual Life Insurance Com
pany of New York. John W. Gordon ap
pears for the plaintiffs and W. N. Ther
mult and George I Hunt for the defendant.
The jury drawn was as follows: W. TI.
Representatives of the New England
Insurance Exchange of Boston made
overtures to the Granite Manufacturers'
association of Barre to-dav for a recon
sideration of its announced plan to or
ganize a mutual fire insuring company,
with the result that joint conference
was held in Manufacturers' hall. Engi
neers and agents of the exchange ap
peared in the city this morning and were
met at the rooms of the association by a
special committee recently delegated by
the granite manufacturers. Before noon
arrived. Fire Chief C. B. Gladding and
Water Superintendent Frank O. Lee h:ul
been invited into the conference.
In deliberations the manufacturers are
represented by If. J. M. Jones, James T.
Marriott, Alexander Duncan, William
Barclay and Secretary Harold P. 1 1 in- j
man. Among the insurance men who at
tended are: H. Austin. W. T. Inness. J. S.
Caldwell, J. F. Driseoll and H. F. Water-
house of Boston, J. W. DeWolf of Provi
dence, R. I., and F. P. Hogan of Boston.
Nothing tangible came out of the fore
noon's session, although there were a
number of indications that the private
insurance companies do not desire, to see
the manufacturers withdrawing their in
surance in fdvor of the co-operative com
pany. Actionem the part of the New England
exchange follows the application of the
manufacturers for a charter to organize
a mutual company. Early in the year a
hearing was held in BArre before the
state insurance commission and at that
time it was said that the commissioners
were inclined to look with favor on the
proposal of the Barre manufacturers to
organize for themselves. Since that time
a number of manufacturers have can
celled their policies and a good many
signs pointed to the fact that the asso
ciation was seriously addressing itself to
the work of forming a mutual company.
Alleged exorbitant rates were cited by
the manufacturer in their petition for
a charter and a detailed statement of fire
losses, premiums piud and insurance car
ried in ermont granite towns in the
past decade was submitted to the stale
com mission. Evidence tended to show
that the burden of paying insurance pre-
CITY ATTORNEY
GETS$100MORE
City Council Gives William
Wishart Increased
Salary '
SO. END P NTS WANT
BIGGr aATER PIPE
V
Cfo hat Four-Inch Pipe
-es Not Give Suffi
cient Protection
That the system of accounting now in
use at city hall incorporates all of the
desirable features of the uniform system
adopted by referendum throughout tho
state at the March elections and goes
further by including much that is essen
tial in reckoning municipal finances was
the gist of a motion adopted by the city
council at its regular session lust even
ing, wnen the clerk was instructed to
notify the secretary of state that Barre
is not contemplating any change in its
present system. Inquiry concerning the
uniform system recommended by the spe
cial, conxmissiou sometime prior to tho
March election developed the information
that many of the most valuable features
of Barre's system are to be found in the
so-called uniform system, and when tho
city clerk received a communication from
the state secretary asking that a requisi
tion be made on the state for the supplies
necessary to the adoption of the uniform
system, it was decided to hring the mat
ter before the council. Without a dis
senting vote the council went on record
last night as favoring the retention of
the system that has been part and parcel
of the city government for severs 1 years.
There were two callers at the meeting,
two w ho Were heard before the council
waded into a batch of routine business
that ended in an executive session. ' Da
vid Gilbert-son. recently confirmed as wir
ing inspector, dropped in to ascertain tho
nature of his duties. It soon became ap-
minms in towns where the fire nrof pet inn !
was inadequate to the protection was I Pr'nt that Mr- "'I'x-rt son's idea of what
falling on Barre.
is required measured pretty well up to
Chief Gladding and Superintendent Lee Khe notion of how n inspector
testified to-dav as to the city's pro. fnnum acpiit iitmseir in tne uncharge or
paredness" for fire and several phases of
the insurance question were discussed in
formally by manufacturers and repre
sentatives of the exclmnge.
FOUR TOWNS SEEK
NEW ARMORY
Petitions of Northfield, Springfield, St.
Johnsbury and Newport Were Heard
at Montpelier To-day Board of Pub
lic Printing Also Met To-day.
State officials and the heads of depart
ments, together with representatives of
the towns of Springfield, Newport, St,
Johnsbury and Northfield, gathered this
forenoon at the State House in Montpe
lier for the purpose of attending meet
ings of the bourd of public printing and
state arimry commission.
Pursuant to an act parsed by the 1910
legislature, creating a commission hav
ing the power to designate the location
and erection of an armory every two
his duties. Intimations were made that
certain phases of the inspector's duties
had lteen ignored in the past and Mr. Gil
bertson, in qualifying himself for the po
sition, was asked to insist that wiremen
live up to the requirements of the ordi
nance. It wa-s suggc-ted that dealers in
electrical supplies and fixtures be re
quested to post notice in their shops
th.it will call tho attention of patrons to
the necessity of consulting the inspector.
City Attorney William Wishart ap
peared with a request that the council
honor his petition for an increase in sal
ary. Mr. Wishart said he- accepted the
office last year si-s a sort, of a trial. He
thought that the SiV) recommended by
the salary committee last week was in
adequate and suggested that a little
lioost would be perfectly proper. Tho
prospects for a fairly busy year in tho
city attorney's department, he went on,
are looming rather lareo and a substan
tial increase would be wholly welcome.
During an executive session Mr. Wish
art was called in to consider the question
of salary along with the councillors. At
length the council returned to open ses
sion and voted to give the city attorney '
an increase of $100 per year.
Wiltev street granite manufacturers
Charles Brockway Died at Hospital In
Waterbury.
The remains of Charles Brockway,
whose death occurred at the state hospi-
Glasgow, April 4-The strike in the ' " Waterbury yesterday, passed i !rrrOI1 jrrp(j y ("ram. W. R. Cooley. T. J
Clyde plants is over and work w ill he re- j through the city over tne Central er- r-Rrr,,n, j. j,. Knapp. Guy H. Howe, John
sinned to-day. This result is due large- ' niont rauroaa this forenoon en route to Oshorn. Addison E. Fos. M. M. Goodell.
lv to the decision of the strike, commit- " "''amstown, llie former home of tlie 'FrPH Darbm?. Carroll Wheeler and Bert
Ht'ec to hand over the whole matter to deceased. Mr. Brockway had been a pa- j i Nelson.
the local officials of the Amalgamated t'' at the institution only a few days, j Only one witness, the w idow, was put
Society of Engineers for negotiations He was around 40 years old and leaves on the stand by the plaintiffs side of the
with the Civile dllution-of -laltor commi-i ''is w ife, w ho w as Miss Dora Piatt of j case. Mr. .loties was insured for $5,000
Y tllisnistown. l-or a number of years , in the defendant comtanv on Aue. 10.
years at a cost of S2o,(KK) to the state
that sum being -appropriated, the com- are not the only ones who are hoping for
mission, consisting ot (rovernor t. H . more lire protection. A petition signed
Gates, Adjutant General Lee S. Tillotson by such manufacturers as Barclay Bros.,
and President Ira L. Reeves of Norwich the Martinson Estate Co., Robins Rros.,
university, met in the governor's chain-j E. A. Bughre & Co.. the Carswell-Wet-ler
to hear petitions from towns in the j more Co.. J. P. Corskie & Son. William
tatc which agree to furnish a suitable j Milne, Lit tlejo'in. Odirers A Milne and
site for an armory. McDonnell A Son? nked that the water
I'nder the statute there have already ' nr. in extending through Batchehler"
lieen armories erected at Bellows Kails i meadow- be increased to an eight-inch
Washington. Anril 4. President Wil
son I i.u,riiv ts.tor w ;.,!,; ( sions. If a settlement had not been ef
House agreed yesterday on general terms i'ected the government was determined ! Mr; Brockway was engaged as a rural j 1BH. and he died Aug. 2ft, lfll.V Tbe
cuinpHny reiuneu in spiiip tne claim on
the ground that the insured misrepre
sented facts that were material to the
of anti-dumping and unfair competition 1 to adopt stringent measures in order to j delivery carrier, having his headquar
PREPARATION FOR
NEW MOVE AT VERDUN
Germans Made No Infantry Attacks Dar
ing the Night at Any Point In That
Region French Kept Up a
Heavy Bombardment.
Paris, April 4. There were no infan
try attacks hist night by the Germans
tn the Verdun region, the war onice an
nounced this forenoon. The French con
tinned a heavy bomliardment along the
ltouaimmt-Vaux front, northeast of Ver
dun. The response was feeble. There
were violent artillery exchanges near
Aoeourt and Malaneourt.
French Re-occupy Part of Vaux.
The otlicial statement last night reads:
'"Between Soissons and liheims we eir-
ried our concentrated tires against the
German organizations north of the Butte
wood and Mount Sapigneul.
"In the Argonne our batteries violent
ly bombarded the west corner of the
Avoeourl wood. An enemy blockhouse
a destroyed, and a munitions depot
blown up.
"West of the Meue the Germans
Hum lied yesterday at the end of the d-iy
a vigorous attack, beteen Haiieourt an 1
Bethinoourt. ainst our position n the
north bank of th Force brook, which
we had evacuated, withdrawing to the
south bank in the night of March 31
April 1, without tbe enemy pcrceivinji
it. '
"-Mirpris--I by a violent tile i!iret"dj
legislation to meet conditions after the
European war. The ways and means
committee will put them in the revenue
bill, which Mr. Kitchin told the presi
dent would be readv for the House about
April 20.
The anti dumping legislation will be
along the general lines of that eliminat
bring the strike to an end.
DEFENDS HIS FATHER.
Newell Leighton Testified in Murder Trial iw iI1 be made in the village cemetery.
at Woodstock. I
Woodstock, April 4 Newell Leighton, i SLEEPER WAS ROBBED
inliitli- inHioto.l u'Uli hiu C.tli.,,- l.,.,l
ters at the Willianistown postolTiee.
Funeral services are to be. held at his
late home in Willianistown Wednesday case. The suit was brought for $1.".000.
afternoon at 1:30 o'clock and interment I After the plaintiff's side bad been fin
ished the defense put on four representa
tives of insurance companies and then
.. I t v. .. , : ,r i i J ' 11
eign goods to be sold in the Vnited State ! iwhV ii i , lJames Unworthy of Montpelier Met
...... .... ..... .....f.,.. ,., - V. ".If- . , , , T,-. ,
Misfortune at Winooski.
,. ..,,., fr.,-, .. i.;.i. ! u:., i i !!," in Sharon on February. 24, last, dur
new provision will impose an additional ! discussion over the ow nership of lg I Winooski, April 4 -John Younger and
tariff to bring the selling price in the,ln 8 'U," "T Iot 1,1 V", t(,'-n. ,rt,,fll'd ,mrl? 11 '-T .V , rroto.l last even
f.t,f j10 ; ,ni,i tw. if ;for the defense yesterday in indsor , mg. charged with the larceny of a dia-
introdnced Ir. W. B. Mavo of Northfield.
who was a fellow member in the last
legislature with Mr. Jones. The last
named witness testified that he had con
versation with Mr. Jones in January of
1!U5. in which the latter said his health
and St. Allans and four towns now seek
to secure the building to be erected this
year by the state for the use of the Ver
mont National Guard. Northfield was
well represented at the hearing by John
L. Moselv, State Tax Commissioner
Plumley, "William White, J. P. llabidou
and others. Newport, St. Johnsbury and
Springfield also sent several citizens, in
cluding officers of the companies in their
towns, to set forth the needs in their par
ticular town.
letters were mailed some time ago to,
the heads of department and those re-1
width, setting up that the extension is
needed lVHtise the present main is in
sufficient for commercial purposes and
w holly inadequate for fire protect ion pur
pones." Inquiry revealed the fact that
the main now used is only four inches
wide. The matter was referred to the
iildermaiiic committee of the whole.
Three patres of fool -cap were not too
numerous to conttin the names of all
petitioners who are -kin' for a font
bridge nero-s Stevens bran. h. near the
corner of Kiver and Center streets. Al
derman Healy. who profe-s-ed it;noranc
quired by rthe board of public printing, as to the exact locution of River street,
notifying them U meet the board and to said that a good many men were making
discuss the making up of such reports hort cuts these dais throneh the me-
and some definite plan adopted whereby dinm of f.wd bridges spermine the branch,
much duplication now found in reports ', The petition indicated a desire on the
may be overcome, and to put them on a part of it authors to shoot a hnds.'"
more efficient wnd economic bai. The across the stream with 1''C extremities
"lrl!T " 1'" minting .came into being I re.tiP on land ow uedbv Marr A Cnim
a stomach trouble. He also said, testi
Med the w itness, that he had been treated
absent from his duties in the legislature
at one time on account of illness
VERMONT BUSINESS TROUBLES.
the B-oods were sold at the market price J nnty court in the trial of his father j moud ring and $30 or $.15 in cash from for ulcer of the stomach. Mr. Jones wa
in the foreign country. j ... ..... ............. ,.....,.,,...,.,., v, u..
The unfair competition legislation will1'''""" en''pl' in ("e tragedy in the woods, j arrived in tow n yesterday from Montpel
be along the same lines as the unfair! H'a testimony referred to the action ier. where they had Is'en employed in
competition sections of the present law!0 the various employes of Gibson, who 'the Montpelier house. They met Voting
applying to unfair conix.tition in the ! were engaged in removing from ' he tim- er and later Kenworthy was taken to
L'nited States. 'KT of disputed ownership. Hotel Brunswick by Younger and Vuley,
The president and Mr. Kitchin dis-!Bn,l the witness said lie heard Gilison j w here he was put to bed. l"pon bis
cused the question of protecting the!,l,t,r n words 'T am shot."' He told awakening he discovered that his cash
dyestuffs industry in the I'nited States 'M,w' John ( ongdon. w ho ow ns property ' and diann.n l Ting were gone. He im
Burlington Man and Brattleboro Mer
chant File Schedules.
Rutland, April 4. Joseph Leolnir of
Burlington, a laborer, as a former part
ner in the lumber firm of Bouchard .t
I bv No. 2:i." of the acts of 1915. which was ; on one side nn 1 the Harrison Granite Co.
approved March l!', 1915. The board is ( on the oppo-ite bank
composed of the governor, state treasurer A report from the fire committee on
and state auditor of accounts. The board, the application of W. A. T-anp for per
is authorized to decide upon the number ' mission to do -i .wd bit of altering to
of pages, binding and number of reports j his pr.Hertv at lis South Main street wss
required. j flavored with iut enough contention to
The State House to4c on tin's forenoon ' make its acceptance doubtful for a feir
an appeuranee livelier by far than at any moments. Mr. 1-ane had a-ked permission
time since the las.t legislature, among to ens t n rear annex to the brick hou
those present to attend one meeting or 'at No. the structure to be used for
j the other, or both, Iwing members of the . machine shop and auti display room.
I public service commission, members of. After Imikimr oer the premises with the
! the penal board, the tax commissioner, tire chief, the rMin!ttee ri-.smmended
rior of the nuuex b
the state lard of j vision that the eti
routed with -feel and the interior wlls
with a-li.-.tos paper. To some of th"
from competition from abroad, but no adjoining the timber lot on which the i mediately notified Chief Barber, who be-
w.rtr.1.,c:r,. An.,l.A.l Ur V:t,i.. whootinfr Occurred mill fiHiera ivh, nit. n,n invctdf ii.utn a.i.f fin. linn Vinitinor
vv.uo ... o i ..-.. .in. iii' iiui xniii .--..... ...... ......... ...... . . ,.. .p. -.. ,-,K .-,'. - , . - . , .
... ... ...... ..... ... . I .win i,. x.riflr II., if h.H n i,- ..C v ,1
lie expected an additional tariff on dve-. ncsse.i tne snooting, camel (,ihson to locked him up. uley was later found . " ' ' v .. .. " , . commissioner of acricultvre stste eeohv i thit the reo-ict f minted with the rro-
. . . ... - i.i.-' 1. 1. ...i i. i- i -. . ..-.j-i.-aj, . .. mim'ton. .X. 1.. neitiir ttifi ottipr tinrtr . . . -.. . ' ...
siuiis wmmi ne imposes in ine revenue ''"- inixui.ii nr nnt tir uieii. on r.im sirept inn nuinnieu naving warn j . t i Rlst. member ot
bill, but the details had not been worked ewell Light'-n s testimony related , the ring, but did not know what had """" ' j health.
out. particularly to his participation in the become of it. They will probably be '""!"'.' 11 " v J- '.l we The stfP boits! of education held
affair and tended to show that he had given a hearing to day. u. , , ,n.V v , J
no part in the attack in which Gibson , ", ,,,r TO,'rrr" T.W college. Columbia university. : would Is- .-tabhshnw unlikely pre
V, 1 1 mi .Minn-1 Nw y(,rk ,.jtv hn hli Wn apjsiinte I dent in grant i.U such a renue-t in ti e fir
(commissioner of education and who w ill di-trict. and the applicant's all. ge, dp
i assume his duties .Line 1. meeting with script ion of the annex a- a h-an-to l.sVcd
the hoard. The ma i'-rity of the menilrs sis though he hain't done th structure
and Mr. Hillegis left for their rervtie ' i i-tice when rtitmy o the apidi.-a
SKY-SCRAPERS THREATENED.
' lost
his life other than arguing with
Fire in Lower New York Caused I100.0O) T" 7 " V . ' . to "T" ! Ir,."n
line umoer ioi. ine og wiiicli V iiaries
leighton claimed to own.
Damage,
New York. April 4. Part of the busi
ness district in the lower part of the eity
was threatened veterdsv bv a spectacu
lar tire which itumed two five-story Mornsnlle Household Had Double isit
buildings at It. and 1 lWkman street from the Grim Reatyer.
TWO DEATHS SAME DAY.
SIX TRIAL. Uon, Bouchard secretly left the state by
j night, taking ith him of the firm's !
Three Utner rnsoners w ho tscaped Cus- money and various books. Iedair as-
todians at Large. sert that lie afterwards discovered that
Providem-e. K. I.. April 4.-Six of tie c"n'VT? ,'!oM V, t!'" "m"u nt of
nine men who were indicted la,t we.k on ;'-v.-s that h.a partner ;
charges of assault with intent to kill "v'r,r' t0 hm ow" mnr" ,han ,h" ,
!-.....- .i.r:. - P.l. i. T.ii, t There are no assets to cover the
homes this foren.Hin.
HORRIBLY CUT ABOUT FACE.
It ion showed that the bu.JKrs is ft I
' b" S .'i t in s.e and trv . stories l:ik'h.
'On the tout i -n t- r' lut ': request, how.
ind :if-fi t Uv report, thre tncm-
occupied bv pars-r dealers. The loss wa! ! Nation tolvin. while Mng taken bv the indebtedness and IWI.ard. who i, still U r v-t-I s-idi'.'. in t'.c .-Ti motive ani
estimated at l.Ww. ! Mornsville, April 4. Edwin II. Iy.c V,fi-,,.r to the st.-te p-ison. were placed ""l "f th ut 1 " ' rftuse, to Mc john Hastings of St. JohnTfcury Hit By ti,- fpl "' .-rc n t bcir-l.
F'T a time the f!nu-. wbi. li swept yesterday morning at :,10 oM-s k on 1rjsl vt,.r,iav in the superior rt. a s- hcdule. I-'sir hss no jsersonsl debts. . Frt 0f Emery Wheel 1 ,!p :' ' ' ' " " , f ,: '" " M. M 1e Cos!
rapidly through the inflammable mate- B"d -ight l ours Inter, at 2:30 yesterday ji,rr Kdward II. Maoii. .!., ph B. Hi ttotnev is K s. Wcb-ter. ! r a pet - t I cr- t . .,!' e ,
rials in the bniidinc. impenllel several aftern.snn. his daughter. Carrie M. Iyk. ; lronard. Albert INdtn. Wilfrcl K. Char-; '"ley S. Mtchclimn of Ilratth-h.0. a , St. J..!.n-btiry. Apr-! 4. .1. d.n il .-t - .... v. T'.c!"-! with min-r
skv-scTsrers on both id.- of tie narrow del. Mr. lke, who had been in failing pender. Thomas .1. AI!-n and George A. merchant, against whm tie Gaiety u.i'. b.!!y ii.j-ir.-f -ter.!.iy by t en i'-cit-1 in C it-pw tor's ivc
thoroiu:hfsre arid cn Nasau stre.-t. Sev- lealth for scleral years, suttere l a sienk
era I floors -f the ll-t..ry !.e Iwiil 1-rp "n Simdsy. Mi-s lyke. who lad len
w ere lameg'1. i-u hl' tor 'mil tn bi pn ittcng veaf. uai
The Ameri-n Trt nci. tv bu ' !;n In ill w :th i n"i'nonit i-r ti e ; ist
f st-.rie in wi.i, h t' c New '
lr..m our new in.-iii"))-. -Mid a ..''ttKing ofti.es are .itnit.-ii. iil-o w.i .1...
trs from Ikthincourt, t..c enemy fortes smoke and water.
rfc Sun vt k sli- -'i, I t. !" .'
.ae.'d bv ti:r . b;.l j i.cuaioii:.!
the vtuer lung Suiiinj,
Mahler.
I.fnirl polion s
redo. s.,.,.jon,. a
"Ihr.-e others v hn e-. aped st th
Ilress companv. Bitter
Bros., and the
both of New
luntarv tetith-n i:i
fin.c lisnkruptcy March .1. v.-.t.-rdsr fe, ),;
nd flsrpender pleaded Francis lress company.
r rel. (York, filed an tnvoluntJ
-v ,i:.;.iitn tim. stol ! rod !f-n p i t r. hen led. but s h.s"hile through C. M entice Mdl.-r st-
iHejcd in w. re iiide t.-l. ar II. i.ry A. IW-an, IksoicI torn. v. He owes M creditors flT.ft'S his "- at;. ut'i
the burst ii p f sn rnicy n tm 1 m th.
Ka-.rbai k Scab- fn,t-ty. A woikni .ti
ran ict' the w h.-el with a h-a of iror,
'i.g 'he a-, j.Ji-t.t. A f yi.' p . e
stru. k H.t t-t in face. l.-i..kn;.
Lt-avrms and lli.sui GoddarL
and claims assets of IIOMX
was tak'-n U Br j-Ltl-'k b..p!til.
. "i-.icr: 1 it,.n. !..:c;.t- I .micron w a
- irn j er"'--'.-n f. c a t..re l.llld-
i-.. -ii M -' t.n -tr.f t' ITuTitipp.
t T1 O i' ne -TI t e ' .1 c f.i.llCMi 1; ia -
ten o) ih- 'r,t 'tii:.t;-c Ue I. th-
(Con; .'icl tn I -urG-i .
