FtNANCIAL EDITION
tfSTRA
NIGHT
EXTRA
vofc. in. NO. GO
ituentng
ittttt
NIGHT
EXTRA
o
&
sj- "
. A
f
1
1
n
fflPEROR CHARLES FRANCIS
PROCLAIMED DUAL MONARCH,
SUCCEEDING FRANCIS JOSEPH
Death of the Aged
Increase m Prussian Domination
of the Central Empire,
TT "I "Tv 1
B juonaon
'efr Buler, Who Is Only 29
VYicn xnny jivaiaer ana meniDers oi Uther
Royal Families Will Attend Funeral
in Vienna
LONDON, Nov. 22. Archduko Charlca Francis Joseph has been proclaimed
nporor of Austria and King of Hungary, succeeding Emperor Francis Joscnh.
'.jwho died In Vienna last night, says a dispatch from Amsterdam today.
No data has been sot for tho coronation. Even If the Emnornr hnrf HvpiI
ins Archduko -would havo cdrrio Into power-on December 2 ns Regent.
Although Vienna has so for withheld official court confirmation of. tho death
iefUie aged Emperor, his demlso has
' various sources.
The new rulor of tho nation which mnde demands on Serbia and precipitated
the Great War is twenty-nine years old and is oupposod to bo at tho front In
command of Austrian troops operating In tho Carpathians against the Rumanians.
Undoubtedly ho has already boenjummoned to Vienna.
'" . With tho prospoct that tho nowsoverign may havo an important bcarinc
W on tho future In tho war, his character
deep study by oil Europe, ucrnocrnticnuy inclined, very littlo was known of
aim up to tho time that an assassin's bomb murdered tho Archduko Francis
jerdinand, tho heir, in Sarajevo, Juno 28,
new ruler a military man
Th man who will now become Austria's
' rolfrls known to have had a good military
H Mucaiion aim una " ...,. ..-
U a military commnnuer in mo bich. ,....
Ho ha lacked any training whatever In
itatecraft or diplomacy. Moreover, ha as-
l(. iumes'the throno at a tlmo when tho strong-
eit of men would' have a task In malntnln-
K lr.g the empire of AuBtrla-Hungnry Intact
bind strong. Hungary la growing restive
under the ilapsburg yoke.
Strong leaders of men havo recently np
"jartd there. They fear swnllowlng up of
Hungary In tho Toutonla emplro and have
, " not hesitated to express that bellof and
'H 'wotk for Hungary as a separate kingdom.
put Immediate result of. tho removal of
1 Us etrong nguro of the aged Emperor was
ItUeved hero to mean an Increase In Trus
'i& domination of tha Control .Empires.
Friiefs Joeph. acknowledged ono of the
(troegeat rulers, of -modern times, is no
jsfte. A mere stripling, succeeds him. Ger-
ftny will prouauii una mm pnam in ac
uttdtng t'q Prussian .wjflb.es. ;- - -
DEATH WAS PEACEFUL
SJspatches from Vienna via Amsterdam
i.today declared that the aged Emperor's
?4eath was peaceful. .
The Umperor was apparently In fairly
food health Monday night', twenty-four
hoars before his death. Ho nroso at his
usual hour on Tuesday morning and went
.through his customary program of busying
'himself In governmental nffalni. Lafer ho
received tho Archduchess Mario Valerie
and Baron Burlan, from the Foreign Ofllco.
Late In the afternoon he became suddenly
'.worse. Ills temperature rose alarmingly.
'It was obvious then that the end was near.
The Archduchess Marie Valerie assisted
rthe aged ruler to h!n bedroom early Tues
. day night He was unable to sleep and
;.kpt complaining of pains In his throat At
I I o'clock he appeared moro quiet and
' teemed to be rostlng. But twenty minutes
Jster he suddenly gestured to' his throat,
; eetmed to strive for utterance, and died
j, .within a. few moments, presumably of tho
' catarrhal affection resulting from a cold
.from which he had constantly suffered since
'jJuly.
ARCHDUKE NOTIFIED.
To Archduke Charles Francis Joseph,
.who has been In Vienna for some time, was
'Immediately notified. The telephone con-
; Etflb Bchoenbrunn Palace with the Ger-
"nun headquarters In the field was used to
; notify Emnamr William of Germany.
JT$Jt t expected that In addition to the
pJCiUer, the Czar of Bulgaria and the
.uunn rnnco or xurxey win auena mo
(funeral, no complete plana for which havo
Jit been made publla V.
i,The conference between the Austrian and
,Huniartart Premiers, scheduled at Buda-
'PMtlhU week, -was Immediately postponed
' Mad (he Hungarian Cabinet called in
ifttpeelar Session at once. Count Tlsza, the
i", Hungarian Premier, left for" Vienna Im
mediately.
VIENNA PREPARED FOR NEWS
Vienna, )t was said, "had been prepared
the news, but nevertheless removal of
k ruler, who had wielded power for sixty-
'Wit years, caused a profound Impression.
j'The, Vienna court Is known as the most
format In all Europe, and a great many
iaMsuly medieval ceremonies will attend
;mclal announcement of the sovereign's
dth, preparation Of hie body for bursal,
jatrmeat and proclaiming of his successor
a (i throne. According to custom, prob.
$My tbe work of embalming- the dead Em-
.'Wror'a body was begun today. Ills heart
lUtbe removed and placed In a separate re-
ConUtsud n rt Tup, Column Two
THE WEATHER '
FORECAST
For Philadelphia and vieinitu-
pQkudy this afternon and tonight, fol
yeteJ by rain Thursday; tteadilu ruing
fwfsralure; moderate southerly winds.
Delaware kivku xidb cuance
1 I'llKSTNU'f STftKKT
, . B-W.mLovr wator., 4 B.W.
v u it m. uruh uUt . . 1 16 .
jr a, ioj uCHT ; " "Si jjXA.
''. -a, ai W'A'ufii'i ,.l,.-
Monarch Means an
.believes
Years Old, Now at tlo Front
been confirmed In special dispatches from
and disposition has beon the subject of
1014.
GREATEST BRITISH SHIP SUNK IN
PROMISE HEAVY
FRAUD PENALTIES
i
Democrats "Will Push -Probe
in Alleged Ballot
Tampering
BOARD TO'BE ARRESTED
John O'Donnell, chairman of the organ
ization committee of ths Democratic city
committee which wilt determine on Friday
afternoon tho course, to be taken In the
aljeged ballot frauds downtown, was em
phatic In assertions this afternoon that
stringent means would bo employed to pun
ish the offenders If found guilty.
O'Donnell. who-was ousted a few. months
ago by davemor Brumbaugh frpm the
Board of Registration Commissioners, was
supported In his declarations by other mem
bers of the committee.
Just what action la contemplated is not
known as yet, as Ignatius A. Qulnn, coua
Bel for the Democratlo committee, said to
day that he would wait until the conclusion
nf tha meeting on Friday before starting
legal proceedings.
The extent of the ballot frauds Is difficult
to estimate. Whether tho Democratlo lead
ers have something in reserve, compared
to which the lone case ..downtown would be
Inslgnldcant, or whether the one revealed
so far la the limit of their -discoveries, Is
not known. It Is believed pertain that more
cases will be discussed at tbe meeting on
Friday. '
The possibility of Federal authorities
belnr called in to aid inHhe investigation
wau branded by Democrats as "ridiculous."
It Is not that the violations of the law are
so numerous, but that Democratlo leaders
desire to remove as far a possible any
collusion between Organization election offl-.
oiaU and Democratlo ortlclals, as has been
frequently the case tn recent years. For
this reason whatever turn .the investigation
may take will still keep it entirely within
the definition of a "local affair,"
Many have been tbe charges that It was
impossible to brlnjr out a large Democratic
vote in wards other than independent
through the fact that the minority members
of the election board are In many case
Democrats in name only ; in others tbey are
gang workers, put in through Juggling votes.
It is alleged
just where the Democrats wtll get the
money to complete a contest Is not known.
A regular election contest will cost several
thousand dollars and the cost of pressing
criminal charges against the election board,
In case their arrest U ordered, will also
be expensive- In the event of wholesale
trresU tb expense will be still greater with
so more money la the depleted treasury.
While the Jff4ian board .usti there
bad been no trauo, iw iiii u a. uaoy will
toiKw ahortiy after the mMttai t tbe or-
fankatien cttauoKta, it Is wit
PiniiADEIiPHIA, WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER '22, 1918
ADAMSON ACT
HELD INVALID
ONFIRSTTRIAL
Kansas City.Judge, Finding
fdr Roads, Orders Im
mediate Appeal
GOES TO SUPREME COURT
Action on Test Cnao In Highest
Triburinl to Begin by De
cember 4
KANSAS CITY, Mo., Nov. 2J. Judgo
William C. Hook, In the Federal Court
here today", held that the Adamson so-called
.eight-hour law la unconstitutional and in
valid. Judge Hook refused to grant the
motion of Federal attorneys to dismiss tRe
application of the receivers of the Missouri,
Oklahoma and Gulf Itallroad for nn injunc
tion ngatnst the Adamson law.
Attorneys for the Government are ex
pectod to appeal to the Supreme Court nt
once, making this case the test case to de
termlno In the highest court In the land
the constitutionality of the law.
Judge Hook mado his decision at 11 US
o'clock this morning.
"My, decision was merely to rush tho
ensn to the Supreme Court as rapidly as
possible," Judgo Hook said. "I have given
tho Government until 3 o'clock to perfect
an appeal to tho higher court."
Francis M. Wilson, United States Attor-
THE JBRITANNIC
ney, and Frank itagerman, special counsel
for the Government, Intimated that the ap
peal would be ready "by or before 3
o'clock." !
JUDGE HOOK'S OPINION
Judge 'Hook's decision, follows:
"This Is an Independent suit to enjoin the
enforcement of a recent act of Congress,
commonly called'the Adamson law, upon the
ground that It Is contrary to the Constitu
tion. In the character of the averments the
plaintiffs bill of complaint Is stated to be
typical of a number recently filed by the
railroad companies In various district courts
of the United States. A motion to dismiss
has been presented on behalf of the defend
ant United States attorney. The sole ques
tion raised by it is that of the constitution
ality of the law. The court Is Informed
that the other 'case's stand on application
for temporary Injunction. An appeal from
an order granting or refusing a temporary
Injunction goes to the .Circuit Court of Ap
peals and not further by ordinary proce
dure, while an appeal from a final order
or decree In such a cose would go direct
to the Supreme Court of the United States.
In the former a decision would be Incon
clusive; n thajatter a decision would defi
nitely settle the question for the whole
country. The" motion to dismiss the case
here, however It Is decided, will promptly
result In a flnnj decree from which an ap
peal will be taken to the Supreme Court
The assistance of this court has been In
voked to facilitate a final and authoritative'
determination of the constitutional question.
The case was presented but yesterday and
a decision la dCslred today.
"It Is far from being an agreeable duty
for a Judge tq record a Judicial conclusion
without the care and deliberation essential
to a conviction that he would stand to In
every circumstance. Upon tbe merits of
Continued en Vase Two, Column Ono
ROBBERS SHOOT UP
TOWN IN GET-AWAY
Explosion in Bank Brings Out
PoBse of Citizens, but Looters
Escape With $5000
CHAMPAICJN, Jllj,Nov. . In a spec
tacular street battle wth. four auto bandits
who looted the exchangs bank at Roberts
of nearly H00O earl.today, p. p Roberts
was shot In the arm.
A posse of cltlMJif ensaged the robbers,
the explosion that wrecked the bank vault
having aroused the town,
The cracksmen escaped after a running;
tight, thoueh they dropoed 100 in silver
to tbelr st-wy. t
The bandits spent four hours in Roberts.
They rst out all th 'telephone and let-
rpn wires to preveot resident from mm-
medec oosistiuBc, r
FALKENHAYN
TRAPS 80,000
RUMANIANS
Two Army Corps Face Cap
ture or Annihilation
Near. Orsova
GRAVE PERIL TO CAPITAL
Gcrmnns Drive on Bucharest
From the East and
South
BEItLIN, Nov. 22.
Crushing nil opposition, the seasoned
Auntroaerman veterans of Von Falkon
hayn are driving across tho Rumanian plain
toward Bucharest,
Striking out from Craiova, which the
Austro-Germana made their base of opera
tions after Its capture yesterday, two Teu
ton armies are advancing toward the south
nnd east. The Rumanian forces lying along
the Danube Itlver between Orsova nnd Cat
afat, estimated at mare than two nrmy
corps (110,000 men) In strength, are In
flight. Their possible fato Is capture or
annihilation.
Ono powerfut column of Teuton troops
Is moving toward Platra, n town on tho
main Rumantnn railroad, where It Is crossed
by branches running north and south. It
Conttnord on rate Fonr. Column Two
AEGEAN SEA
EXAMINER SCORNS
WOOD ACCUSATIONS
Roney, of Insurance Depart
ment, Refuses to Answer
Charge of Malice
COMPLAINT MADE PUBLIC
William J. Roney, chief examiner of the
State Insurance Department, was asked to
day to reply to a statement ' Issued last
night by Lyndon D. Wood In which he and
other assistant examiners were attacked ns
having "made an unwarranted, malicious
and despicable attack upon the credit and
reputation of tho American Assurance Com
pany, of this city."
Mr, Roney simply said tho attack wasn't
worthy of notice.
Sir. Wood In his statement said further:
"I charge that Mr, Roney did this dellb
erately In an effort to offset the effect of
information, which he knew I possessed and
might make public, concerning actions of
himself and his .associates In shielding of
ficers of the American Assurance Company
before I became a part of the management."
Further on in the statement Mr Wood
says former officers of the company told
him "they had nothing to fear from the In
surance department"
I'APBnS OOT REPORT
Mr, Wood says the Insurance department
gave copies of the examiners' report to tbe
newspapers before he got his. This is an
error on the part of Mr. Wood. Copies were
not given to the newspapers and anylng
the reporters got they procured themselves
from the records In Harrlsbiirg, The rec
ords were open to Mr, Wood Just as they
were to the reporters.
Mr. Wood gave out a copy of a letter sent
to Mr. O'NeU. It Is as follows!
"November 20, 1U.
"Dear SJrwWe are in receipt from your
department of a copy of ths report on the'
recent examination of this company by
your examiners.
"It was received by us two days after it
was supplied to the newspapers of this olty
uj ;wvi ,, "ftitniiiHiuftiLuing a, rS'
quest iue Hi us uiw me ex
amlnatlon
was In" process that in
accordance with
Centlaiud en I'sso Two, Column Tw
See thfi Back Page
for an artist's conception of what
was the scene to the Aegean Sea
when the British Jfner Britannic took
her last plunge, ns chroaicre4 to to
day's dispatches.
QUICK
WOULD RAISE CITY TAX RATE TWENTY CENTS
A tax rnto of tjl.70 Is mlvocnlcd by Chairman Gnffney, of thp
finance Committed of Councils, for 1017. trills Includes n tnx of
fifty cents for schools. The proposed rnte, which Is twenty cents in
excess' of tho present rate, would give the city nn Income of
935,508,533.07.
WOMAN WHO LEAPED FROM HOTEL WINDOW DIES
Mrs. Charles Samson, of Now York, who Jumped front n fifth-'
Btory window nt tho Bcllovue-Strntfotd Hotel, this nftornoon, died
about thirty minutes later in the Jefferson Hospital.
TODAY'S RACING RESULTS .
First Bowlo race, purse, maiden S-ycar-oidSj 0 furlongs Lucius,
11C, Hayncs, ?S!.70, ?2.20, ?3.D0, won; Tyrant, 115, ButWell, ?8.-10,
?8.-10, second Leading- Lady, US, Ball, $3.80, third. Time, 1,M 1-0,
BRITISH SEIZE MAIL UOUND FOR NEW YORK
NKW YOltIC, Nov. 22. Tho Scnndlnavlan-Aincrlcnn llnor Stockholm, which
nrriyod hero today, reported tlin't British authorities at Kirkwall removed nil tho
ships mall. Flvo days out two Gorman stowaways wcro discovered ln!ono of tho
ship's llfebontM, covered with ennvas. Thoy had beon living on crackers and water.,
Sovcrnl noted Swedish skaters camo over on tho Stockholm for wlntor meots hero
this winter.
MARSEILLES, France, Nov. 22. Tho
today, reported that slio was stopped by a
into tho sea.
imUMIMUGH SIGNS DEATH WARRANTS FOR SIX
HAiUUBBUHa, Nov, 22. Governor Brumbnugh nlimcd the following death
warrants today: John Nelson, Wyoming, and Jonas Brodst, Lehigh, to bo executed
during the week of January 8; ratrlck Cnllary. Northampton, weok of January. IB;
Harry Ward, Mattcrn nnd Ernest Halnca, Jefferson, week of January 22.
COMMERCIALISM CRUSHES AMERICA'S SOUL, SAYS POET
NEW YOltK, Nov. 22. After four weeks' tour and Inspection of tho Unltocl
Stntcs, Sir Itablndrnndath Tagoro, noted Indian poet, rotfehed his conclusion today
ns to "what Is wrong with America." "Commercialism;" declared tho poet, "Is
crushing tho soul of America. Itollet must como or thoro will bo war."
TWO RAILROADS INDICTED FOR FREIGHT REBATES
WASHINGTON, Nov. 22. Tho United States District Court has roturncd four
Indictments involving npoclnl concessions to shippers, tho Intcrntato Commorco
Commission announced today. Tho Indictments, each In twonty-nvo counts, charge
tho Louisiana and' Arkansas Itallway with rebates on yellow plno shipments to tho
Bodcow Lumber Company and tho St. Louis Southwestern 'Railway with con
cessions to the Louisiana nnd Arkansas.
U. S. STEEL GRANTS ANOTHER 10 PER CENT INCREASE IN PAY
NKW YOItlC, Nov. 22. Increases in pay to employes in factories, mills nnd on
railroads nil over tho United States, which will amount to approximately $50,000,000
annually have been announced' since November 1, Following twoothcr Increases of
10 per cent each nnd ono restoring va' cut of 12 per cent, tho United States Stool
Corporatlqp, has announced another 10" per cent Increase This latest increaso affects
250,000 employes' nnd will ndd about 120,000,000 to tho corporation's payroll. It
takes effect ,Decynber IB. .. '
BOSTON. Nov. 22, Tho American Woolen Cnmnanv has auUinricr-H nil iin inula
o advance 'tho ivnges of thoIrac'.OOd i employ os tea Ver 'cent. ' ' ' " "-'
, f
PAPjVL ALLOCUTION WILL HE APPEAL FORi PEACE
HOME, Nov. 22. Tho allocution which Popo Benedict XV will deliver at the
secret conBlstnry on December 4 will bo the most fervent appeal for pcaco from
tho Vatican sinco tho wur began. It was learned In Vntican circles today that tho
Popo nnd Cardinal Casparrl, tho Papal Secretary of State, aro working daily upon
tho address. Ilomnn Cntholio prelates throughout tho world aro to bo asked to pray
continually for poaco.
GERMAN REI'EY ON U-BOAT ATTACKS OFF TO UNITED STATES
BKItLIN, Nov. 22. Tho informal reply of Germany to tho American inquiry
rcgnrdlng tho sinking of the Btoamshlps Itowanmoro, nievnul Abbey, Strathtay
and Antwcrpen has beon forwarded to Washington by Joseph Grow, secretary to
tho American Kmbnssy. Tho German Government regards' tho Itowanmoro nnd
Antworpen cases closed. As no submnrino commander ever reported the sinking
of tho other steamships, tho Government holds that thoy wero sunk by other
agencies than by U-boats. (Tho RlevaUl Abbey and tho Strathtay were both sunk
early in September, but those cases arousod no Hpoclal publla Interest. Tho Strathtay
was sunk in (lie Kngllsh Channel on September 2 while bound from Now York fop
Havre. Liter tho British Admiralty was reported to havo admitted that sho.was
destroyed by a mine.) "
GIRL WORKERS FLEE FROM FIRE IN FACTORY
Fifty girls employed in tho shirtwaist factory of Bernstein & Small, on the
second floor of 622 Market street, hurried out of the building Bhortly after coming
to work today, when a. broken cas Jet In tho cellar started, n small flro. Employes
of Simon Miller & Son, wholesale shoe dealers, who occupy tho first floor nnd the
cellar, quickly, quenched tho blnzo. Tho damage is trifling.
U. S. PLANS BIG AVIATION POST AT ESSINGTON
An aviation post, under the command of United States Army Aviation Service,
is to bo established at EsBlngton, according to Major William Mitchell, U. S. A.,
chief of staff of the aviation service. Thera will ha two squadrons of aeroplanes,
numbering thirty-six each, with ISO officers and men nnd twenty experienced (Iters.
BRITAIN TAKES INVENTORY OF POTATOES
LONDON, Nov. 22. The Hoard of Trade has Issued an order requiring nil per
sons cultivating more than ten acres In tho kingdom to make a return of their potato
stocks and contracts by December 7. I
NEGLECT BY RAILROAD BLAMED FOR WRECK
WASHINGTON, Nov. 22. Tho Interstate Commerce Commission today sharply
reprimanded operating officials of tho Western Maryland Railroad because of "lax
operating rules," which was given as tho cause of a wreck near Knobmount, Vo.,
October 12, In which two employes were killed and thirty persons Injured. An
Investigation by the commission showed that the wreck, which was between an ex
cursion train and a. freight train, was caused by failure of oporatlng ofQcfals to
Inform the freight train crew that an excursion was being run.
NEW YORK WOMAN, ILL, PLUNGES
FIVE STORIES TO BELLEVUE COURT
Mrs. Charles Samson, Wife of Broker, Crushed in Leap.
Dying in Jefferson Hospital Was Suffer-
ing From Nervous ffection
Mrs. Charles. Samson, wife of a New York
broker, 41 Bxehanga place, Jumped from
the fifth floor qf the Bellevue-Stratford Ho
tel thla afternoon; and Is In the Jefferson
Hospital In a dying condition.
The woman, who Is thirty-five, years old,
left alone for a moment to the bathroom
of her suite, climbed out on the window Mill
and plunged down Into space and landed
on a root In the court three stories from
the street She Is said to be a sufferer from
a nervous disorder. Her nurse, who came
to the hotel with Mra. Saau$n yesterday,
discovered her employer's absence, and. upon
leaking dewn lata the court, taw lr lying
oo the roof.
Hotel employes notified Dr. Charles
Bush, tbe bouse plfyslalin. who treated
Cortiranr, lain, tt ins l'estto Ltean Cohmni.
NEWS
Orcolc steamship Erlssos, which arrived
submarine nnd 118 bngs of mall thrown
her, while tbe ambulance of the Jefferson
Hospital was called to the-Clianf ellgr street
entranea to the hotel and she was . re
moved to the hospital.
According to J. Miller trailer, manager
of the hotl, Mrs. Samson came, to tfc
hotel yesterday from the'. South, accom
panied by Mrs '.ynderwoqd and a nurse.
They enraged a suite on the fifth floor. ,
Following the tragedy, Frailer tele
phoned Mrs. Samson's husband In New
York. The broker sold he would get to
this city as soon as possible.
Whn woman attempted t0 eR(j ner
life hundreds of diners wers in the hots
at luuoheon, while many others were stroll
lag about the lobby. But w of jJisej
knew of tt a.
PJRIOB OJfE 'OJ3NT
BIG BRITANNIC
LOST; 50 DEAD
1100 RESCUED
Greatest British Liner;
Victim of Mine or
Torpedo :
USED AS HOSPITAL
SHIP BY ADMIRALTY,
Huge Steamship Meeta
Tragic Fate on. Way
From Salonica
FINDS GRAVE IN AEGEAN
World's Greatest Ships
and Fate They Met
VATERLAND 64,282 tons prop
orly of tho Hamburg - Amoricon
Lino: Interned nt Hoboken, N. J.
Britannic 18,158 tons; property
of tho White Star Lino; sunk in tho
Aofjenn Sen.
Lualtanin 30,300 tons; property
of tho Cunard Steamship Company;
sunk by German submarine, 1916.
Titanic 15,000 tons; property of
tho White. Star Lino; sunk, 1012, by
collision with iceberg.
LONDON, Nov. 22. The British hospital
ship Brltannlo, former White Star liner
nnd largest -British vessel afloat, was sunk
In tho Zea Channel of tho Aegean Sea yes
terday. Tho Admiralty announced today that ot
those aboard about fifty were lost, twenty
eight woro Injured nnd Hop saved.
The Brltannlo was built for the White
Star Lino's passenger service being fin
ished only last year, but was Immediately
requisitioned by the British dovernment
for use ns a hospital transport.
.The Zoa Channel, where the Admiralty
states the great ship was lost, is a bit of
water between tho mulnland of arceco nnd
tho island of Zea. From this It Is safe
to assumo that tho Britannic was bringing
back wounded from Salonica, the channel
being ono of tho direct routes to tho Allies'
dop6t In this section. .
Tho Admiralty announcement declared
tho vessel had been sunk by a mine or tor
pedo, NEW YORK, Nov. 22. At tho offlces
bf the Oceania Steamship ' Company, the
White smr!rin'9rlt'vVoa:s'ta'tetr"'tliat the
Britannia never has been armed.
'The Britannia 'never has engaged In
trnnsatlantla service, not having been com
pleted at the outbreak of tho war. She
was turned over to, the Government and
fitted out as a hospital ship with cots for
2500 men. She carried usually In addition
to patients 200 nurses and orderllesand 100
surgeons, besides her crew of about 900
men. '
The 'Brltannlo as a hospital ship was
operated solely by ofllcers of the White
Stnr Line. At the local ofllco It was stated
tho ship was strictly a nonbelligerent.
Tho ship was withdrawn from Govern
ment service, according to reports to the
New York offlco. and taken to a shipbuild
ing yard about a month ago to havo her
passenger accommodations rebuilt They
expected her to be placod In transatlantic
service within n short time. Nothing has
been heard of the ship since word was re
ceived that she was to be rebuilt
It was staled here that the Britannia
was commanded by Captain C D. Bartlett
Tho Brltannlo. was the largest British
ship afloat nnd was second only to the
Vaterland, tho huge German passenger
vessel. In tannage. She displaced 18,151
tons. She was propelled by three screws.
HATFIELD P0ST0FFICE
LOOTED BY YEGGMEN
Snfo Blown and Everything of
Value Stolen as Village
.Sleeps
Yeggmen forced entry Into the postofflee
at Ilaffleld, Montgomery County, blpw open
tho safe end stole money, stamps, and otjjar
articles the value of which has not yet been
ascertained.
This Is the second safe-blowing Job In
Hatfleld within n a week. Several days ago
yeggmen forced ap entry Into the office of
the Hatfield Times and after blowing open
the safe, robbed the place.
Detectives Poyle and McOHnn of City
Hail, are searching every nook and corner
today of the Tenderloin, where this class
ot criminal hides after each Job, in (he
hope of unoarthing same clue,
Tho robbery tock place about i o'clock;
this morning. As there are no police in
Hatfield, the men took no precautions to
muffle the noise. They went about the task
with evident leisure, and after blowing th$
safe, ransacked the postofUce and took
everything whieh appeared to be of value.
The robbery was not discovered until
Fstmatyer Jacob Hollenbach arrived at
he cfllee.
' pesussusn ii in ii
P. H. R- TO BUILD NEW YABD
WH J sy ' "low
?4Q0jOOO to Be Spent on Improvements
at Shocks Mills
rnent was piade at tb loot I offlwa of
Pennsylvania Railroad today that ptosis
are being prepared tor new olasflfleaUo
yard at Shocks MIHe, on the Cetas&i
branch, to cost 1I0,90 and for addttio!
track U,$attiac at On Knots, cselSctttoa
yards, to cast k to ?I4.10.
Breotlea of biuk twiwa at Xuo tm
Mexican taWNm wui email aa estiuHtur
at at Jewt $44Mf .
