44 H'
W E A THER
.._mai ?*iiK nn R-i-xv. raon
^BM ( N-l Ml 1 I.
Inl" B?|?(*rt on r_r** II
^HB^^^ Ftecf tn T.i
"~E_-~
First to Last
the Truth: News ? Editorials ? Advertisements
t&ribmit
CI R C U L A T T O N*
Over 100,000 Daily
XetPaiH, Non-Return-ii'l
\oi
1\\M No. 21
).*>!
?r-P,.t?ht iei_?
Ihe Trihune .??'_ 1
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1916
a * *
/\\*l* f 'l.'VT ,n N,,w tnrV. t.i,. N???rW.
U.lli I l-.s I .!,,?., (ii, an. M..?H,_.?
Francis Joseph, Austria's Ruler, Dies;
Archduke Charles Francis to Reig
UNIONS PLEDGE
FIGHTTOFINISH
0N8-HOURLAW
Rail Chiefs and A. F. L.
Announce Union
Against Capital
AGREE TO OPPOSE
ARBITRATION PLAN
Attorneys Work to Get
\damson Law Decision
Before January 1
- ...
Nov. 21.?Three of
bood praakkata, aasurad
?f the ndividfl I flupporl tt the
IMTNB T ederation of Labor. went
-ht to -'watch
dfl lir.es while the rail
? thfl government" on the
Adar:.
The Supreme Court may pass on
.M c,,. ..ity of the Ada-nson
...ry 1. Attorneys for
I confl tTOd to-night wi'h
-: | Giagon w<;n a!
I a tart eaat hefore
din ma. Then
ipN p of such an agreement to
Bflrrow.
ition so far as the broth
f concerned wa? sharpiy
-.he understanding they
.. hind with the Federation at
- rtantiaUf that un-1
- foDowa:
\Y ::...*.: G. Let, president of the
way Trainmen.
th?t if the four
rganiaitions did not
? *-h, :r day guaranteed by
. rhe Adamson law
? r..
ration I'romiaen AM
--. Stone. head oi thfl
oi Loeomotive En
pOfltrs, .- .ir<d that unle.-s they
.-??-hour day on the rail
would be ".-.ome unt'in
? --" beforfl the country.
ation, speaking through
rUBOO] Gompers, and
. y iti the enthusiastic*
plBOSfl that gretted
heads when thfl lat
*he conventir.n, an
Oflly that it exp-cted
? ? kimnen to Inaofuntfl the ei^ht
lay i *i Ji'f.uary 1.
Th.* rotbarboodfl also declared
,n to oppOBfl compulsory
-vrhik they have I-reath
! tpfrtlw with tbe
?flWati i. to oppoaa tlie Praaidflnt'fl
plan for compulsory investigation,
.irl'.tration that
u1."
Will Work TflgrtBflff
BTfltj ail thia. however, ,
he combined de- '
M . | raa] - cf organized la
;.nd the redera
vor-ia of Mr. Lee blawelf,
... i .an r i(iinpi. *.? aalliatioo
umed of before.'' The
our" at the co: -
la the delegatea
all doubt about a com
thi near future. Ihe
? irhflfltfl niterpose at'
aaid. "no ruU
?etiag together."
., better under-tandiisg," he
.' . .r. going to harifc to
?? future because ?re know
iag -.parately. I
im at >? Jgh to aay that
?? are goiag to wart lofrtkot for al
.r day for every claas |
ef labor and if WI n.i.'t gt-'. It peace
tkiy, ?? r it."
lautflfl later Mr. (iompers
At nounded even more
wenacirij 1I< leferred to the recent'
I National Induatnal;
Baard, te rt?aaat IflgialBtivi
. | iabor.
Srrepla **Mone>'? < hallenge
money power of the I'nited
Itati ? -*id in hia lalemn, delibera
tive fflflfciaa. "faiied to corrupt the elec
. showed their coiorv They
?ac*. and -{ave a public declaration of
? ? ? ti ritioi: to antagonne every tf
| mt forth by organized labor. to
lufltriallj, politically and leg
loatiaM-d ?? !???? a. r*lua_ fl
late: emperor, new ruler and future monarch
U. S. STEEL CO.
GIVES 250,000
HIGHER WAGES
Third lOPerCent Raise
Makes Year's Pay
roll $50,000,000
Wage . of a quart.r of ? million men
,d hy the I'nited States Steel
Corporatiotr I creased on De
cerr.b'r IB. l'V.e advance to the un
I employe? ol the iron and fteel
tompanie. i? to average 10 per cent,
.r departneata, according
to an announcement mane yesterday
hv K. II. <;.?*?>'. chairman of the tinance
committee. j.roportionate mcreat-es will
Le made.
Thia will he the third 1" I" r cent ad
..... . haa made
.n the wage? of ita werkeri thia year.
The firat becam.- effeetWe .lanuary 1
and the aecond on May l.
Th" aggr*g_t. ? uured.
will amount. to more thaa ttO.09-,000
? r at> i payroll ia 1911
|n 191 _ it will have
averaged more than |! **** if
the hifhet rate of wagei :i maiatamed
imoaai paid tu
nrill be i
The deeiaion of the Steel Corporation
to ..>iv_r,ce wage. i.' thia time wai ac
.,, by Mt. Gary te the abnormal
' an.l ateel in
.nly," he aaid, the
0n oi v...<?? woald not come up
'or eoaaideration oi decimon at this
time of the year, hul ln conaequenee
abnormal condition. now (
,,'. ,- ba. been deci-od to increaae the
mat* rates of our iron and steel com
paniea about 10 per cent. te tahe ?
r?r 15. Aato other departmenta,
inereaaea will he equitably propor
t:?Ae..milar increa*e. it is expected. will
be announeed b] th,
eempaaiee. The i oited Sl
Corporation cmplo.s* only aoa-eaioi
ubor <>f the employi aow a? nt
I approximately 176,.?ic what
are ktiovi. aa common laborer-. 11 .!
to theae that the 10 poi eoat waa*
advance chiefly appHea. Their average
waae on January I of thil vear wa
about $-' a da\. After December li
it will t.e aere thaa 11
of the current net i-arninjr*
ol tbe Steel l orporatiea place them et
more than 11,000,000 a daj
holidayi end Buadaye. 'l'he Decembei
quarter may ahe** a? high as I10S.000,*
! ,. ? uKI bi ing tne total for
the year at ove I **xd would
? quarter r.f
the year about J.o.o.io.d.i 0 above the
Septernber quarter, in which th?- prr
enl big r?T quarterly earning*
was .-*? t.4.1 i thti.
lmring thi ended Sep*
temb? r ot' the Steel Corporation earned
. p?r eent i ? eom
mon stock. Karr.mgs foi the Septern?
ber quarter were ::t the rate of M
per cent.
Big Woollen Mills Raise
Pay of 40,000 10 Per Cent
Bo.ton, Nov. 21 A 10 per rent wage
increase ia all the mill. of the Ameri
tan Woollen Company. which oaaploya
:U>.Of?0 hand- la New Kngland and N>4v
Vork State, war. announeed at the head?
quarters of the company here to night.
At the ?ame time the Arlington Mill.,
the big lotlot. plant of which at I.aw -
rence empleyi **M0i) hands, announeed
"a higher .calc of wagea." the amount
<f which wa* not .pecilied. lt war. be?
lieved that the new scale would he *im
llM to that made public laat mrht by
the Cotton Marufactuier.' A.sociation
ot New Bedford, gianting their 33,000
employe. a 10 per cent raue.
FRANCIS JOSEPH. CHARLES FRANCIS JOSEPH AND HIS SON
Von Jagow Resigns
As Kaisefs Minister
Health Blamed for Retirement of Much Criticised
Director of Foreign Affairs? Some Suspect
Chancellor May Follow
..n.-'erdani. Nov. 22. C.ottlieh von I
Jagow. the (Jerman Minister of For?
eign Affairs. has resigned, according to
? Berlin diapatch. The condition of his
health ia given as the cause of hia res?
ignation.
Dr. Alfred Zimmermann. Under Secre?
tary of Foreign Affairs. the dispatch
adds. probably will aucceed him.
The "Tageblatt" prints a rumor that
Herr von Jagow will become ambassa?
dor at Vienna.
I - rr, Tlic T. ;i._r.? |!
WaahiBftea, Nov. ll.? The report of
von Jagow's resignation, whirh is not
contirrr.ed in official .iispatches here, i_
riot neeeeearily of international im
portanee, officials said to-nighu I'nd**
the (Ierman form 4>f government. tne
Chancellor i. the solje responsible Cab?
inet officer, the various ministcrs being
merely administrative officiais.
Rumor* have been current for sorn
time, it was pointed out, that von
JagOW might resign on aecount 01" ill
healt'n, and rndcr-Secret. i > Zimmer?
mann has been suggested as his prob?
able succes.or.
Mav Foreca. I Other ( hangea
A possibility that is being diseus-*eii
with great interest in official quarters
,; von Jagow's resignation is due
to the belief that ( hancellor von Beth?
mann-Hollweg is about to be forced
out by the growing influence of the von
Tirpitl party, which aims to return to
the ruthless submarine warfare of
Lusitania daya.
Kecent reports here ha\e insisted
PURSUE GIRL AND ABDUCTOR
l_>ng Island SherifT* I'oaae Seeks
Stranger >\ hi? Disappeared with Child*
Kast Northport, long lalaad, Nov. gl.
SherifT A. W. Biggs is leading a posse
,n pursuit of a roughly dresse.i strang?
er who was seen v.ith thirteen-year-old
Eliiaheth Hoffman on Saturday. The
girl has not been home since her
mother, Mis. Henry Hoffman. sent her
on an errand on Saturday.
V( .terday r.lizabetlCs brother. eleven
roari old. *aw her with hei -trange
lOKpanioB, of whom she seemed mor
afraid. The man threatened him
and' Kli-abeth begged him to run homo
.i.d t'-li her mother. That ivas near
.he railroad station, and it il saul thr.r
a few minutes later the riii_n and girl
boarded an eastbound train.
a-? '
WAR STRIPS PALACE STAFTS
King Ordera Knglish Hou?ch_ld At
Ia. hes Int . Fleld
I.ondon. Nov. 22. "The Time>" un
derstands that the King has ordered
. every unmarried man of militarv age
ion the royal -taffs at Buckmgham Pal?
ace. Wind.or Caatle, Balmoral and
Sundnr.gham. whatever his employ?
ment, to report foi service with the
colors.
At the beginning of the war the King
released as many men as could be
.pared fi.r .rrviee at the front, and, un?
der the I?erby scheme. all the remain
der attested. The present action fur
ther depleten the ro>al *_tab!i-hment.
PIM:MlKS>r HUTI.I ? and OOU itSU*,
.*.o- y?i lnaui.-t __?.?.-._ Ail -._.?? ll?l B't-tj
. A ?
that von Bethniann-Hollweg'a day*
von numbered, ar.d.it is consid'-r".'
blfl that von .lagow dcsired tfl di -
part l.efore bil resignation was askeJ
by a new Chancellor.
Gottllflb von Jagow'** ri?e in C,erma*i
officinldom was sudden and Mirprisir.**.
Although he had been in the diplomiiti*
ICrvicfl tt his country for -.eventceii
*,ears. when Bfl was made helmsman o.
('ermanv's foreign atTairs ifl ItlS, bfl
was practically unknown ;.t thfl tini.'.
He had been praiied hy Priacc Baeloer
as "tp<. BIOll promisintc BBf-oag tha
yonager geaeratiea of (ierman diploma
tists." hut the appointmcii' oi
Kcure a peraon to ie reeponaible a poil
was received with no little eritieifMB.
Pacod Sharp ( ritiriim
1' aai not strange. then, that tho
trying U?ki that eonfrunted Herr von
Jagow when the Kuropean war began
breught him into still more disfayor
ui'h the people. The task of defending
ac:s leaPOrtOd hy one faetiOfl and con
demned by unuther proved almoM over
wnelmmg'to the comparatively "fOBBI
niKii who aai tO be judged BOt by tU
racord but by his conduct of the
a:r:i:i i of the day and hour.
Wbe-fl Hen von lagow permitt.*d the
fVutro-Hungariai aotfl tfl tbe United
Statei regarding the exportaiion or
munitiom to b,- aenl te thii eoantrt
without his being consultcd, and rol
lowed thii mifltake v.ith a pers.stent
advocacy tt thr diviaioa of the Belgian
Congo Batwoen Cenaaaj ?nu rr*.r,c*.
criticisni reached a head.
As earlv fll A.-fBBt, Ifli, Herr v?n
Jflgow'l retirement wa- urged by cer?
tain German partiaaaa, and since then
reneated nuuon have r-ached the out
.,,].? aorld that be wa? to be replaced.
Both l?t Alt red Ziinniertnann ana
I'rince von Buelow have been men?
tioned frequently as pasaiUa ?****?*"
to Herr von .lagow. Laat May there
aai a strong ag.tation for the replace
ment of von Jagow by von Buelow.
POPE CONGRATULATED
ON 62D BIRTHDAY
Rome. Nov. 21.- On the
occasion of the sixty-second
birthday of Popc Benedict
to-day, His Holiness received
messages of congratulation
from all parts of the world.
FRENCH WARSHIP
AND 7 STEAMERS
SUNK IN CHANNEL
H-ri.n. Nov. M. "*>ne of our sub?
marines in the Lnglish Channel. on
Novemb-r 14, sank ? Krench guard
vessel. a|.parentiy I torpedoboat de?
stroyer of the Are or Sabre class, ar.d.
besidea. flifl enemy merchantmen," ?aya
an otT.cial statement isaued to-day
?The ?am.' I -boat -ank the Norwegian
ateamer lUvang, which waa carrying
war BBBterta! for the trench govern?
ment.''
London. Nov. il. The following com
munication was iasued by the Britiah
Admiralty to-night:
"The British Admiralty state. on au
thonty of the Krench Mtnistry of
Manre. that no Krench war veaael was
? unk or. N'ovember 14 ui the Lngln-h
thannel" I
CRAIOVA LOST,
RUWANIANS IN
GRAVE PERIL
-
Falkenhayn Traps Foe
at Orsova in Sweep?
ing Victory
Bv ( ? ?
I.ondon, Nov. 21. - Craiova, the
capital of Weetern Wallachia. has
fallen to Falkenhayn.
Tho operations leadinp up to tho
greal Teutonic success an* shrouded
in mystery. Details of all the im-,
ppltant movements of the last three
uays are ladtillf. But it is clear that
almost -l.diio square miles of Ruma?
nian territory have been conquered
hy the invader; that control of the
entire railroad system of Western
Wailachia has come into his hard-;
that a Rumanian army of consider
able size virtually has heen trapped
in Orsova, and that the victonous
troopt are sweeping forward frOM
the west. r.ortnwest and north tow?
ard Bucharest. less than a hundred:
miles away at some p '-.
Germans F.nter ( raio\a
(?erman troops marched into
Craiova at noon to-day, Herlin offi
cia'.l:, announeed to-night. Basing
their views on the incomplete reports
imvv at hard. ob-ervcrs here express
the belief that the city was taken by
the joint forcM operating in the Jiul
Valley and from the Orsova region.
I h. anaj ia the J?j1 Val?
ley. it ;ipprars, broke the Rumanian'.
?....? el l.-gujiul and drove Ferd
inand'- rapidly before them
tearard I raieea, both force-. making
I the railroad.
Pttrograd announces to-day that the
1. n .man- had retired to the region
of Filliash. This place is at the junc?
tion of Orsova-Craiova and the Ter
gujiul-i 'rait.va railroad', about thirty
? .,rthwe?t of Craiova.
At the -ame time that this move?
ment was going on other Teuton forces
w. re advancing iwiftlj down the Mat
ruh Valley from the reirion north ef
Two days a^*o these troops
reached the t >r<ova Craiova railroad
above Fill'ash. liloving along this road
they appareiitly joined forces at Filii
ash with the army driving down the |
Jiul Valley. The two forces then
moved int. Craiova.
Mleee Rumanian* Fscaped
Although there ia no indication as
to the fate of the Rumanian. who
were defendmg the Jiul Valley, the
best opinion hold*. that they were able
le re; *ai to Craiova before the enemy
cou 1 cut them off from the aouth.
Thee forces are now presumed to be .
facing the invaders from the ea.t and
*outh of Craiova.
The -wift advance of the Germanic
troops did succeed. however. ;n cut
ttng of tha eastern lme of retn ..
the Rumanuti forces m and to thc
? outh of dr-ova. The position of the-e
ii ro- extreaaeli crmcai. Their
(ooliuued on page I . ..lunui I
EMPEROR, 86, GUIDED
NATION FOR 68 YEARS
On Throne in Three Wars, Taking Sceptre
Amid Life and Death Struggle with
Hungary and Italy?Vigorous to
Last?Successor, 29, Commanded
Armies Invading Rumania
London, Nov. 22 (Wednesday).? Emperor Francis Joseph of Austria-Hungary
died at 9 o'clock last night at Schoenbrunn Castle, in the sixty-eighth year of his reign.
He was eighty-six years old. His death is announced in a Reuter dispatch from Vienna
by way of Amsterdam. ?..-._. ? a
Archduke Charles Francis Joseph, his grandnephew, whose accession as co-regent
was to have been proclaimed on December 2, will succeed him. On the day the an
nouncement was to have been made Francis Joseph would have completed his s?xty
eighth year as ruler.
"Vienna reports that although the death of the Emperor had been expected, the
news, which was printed in special editions of the newspapers, made a deep impression
on the public," says a Central Nfews dispatch from Amsterdam. _.,,-.,
"A special Cabinet meeting waa held. The heir to the throne, Archduke Charles
Francis, haa been for some time in Vienna.
"A meeting of the Hungarian Cabinet has been called at Budapest. Fremier
Tisza will afterward come to Vienna."
SUFFERED FATAL CHILL AT WAR FRONT
The emperor's grandnephew became heir to the throne upon the aasassination ot
Archduke Francis Ferdinand at Sarajevo, which resulted in the preaent war. The new
monarch ia twerfty-nine yeara old and haa been in command of the f orcea of the Central
Powers in the Carpathians and along the marshes of Transylvania, where they are in
Although rumors of the impending death of the aged Hapaburg ruler have cropped
up at brief intervals since his nation waa plunged into war, the vigor of the Emperor
has as often given them the lie. The cause of his death is traced back to a severe chill
which seized him while he waa inspecting his troops last July.
At that time he waa confined to his bed, and it is believed that he has spent the
greater part of his time there since. For some time daily bulletina have been issued
regarding his health, and deapite the stories that were allowed to seep out that it was
only the Emperor's rash disregard of physicians' injunctions that made the bulletins
necessary, they were awaited throughout the empire with the keeneat anxiety. For sev
eral days'they have shown a persistently increasing temperature, and the last, issued
last night gave rise to grave surmises. It waa aa follows:
"The seat of the inflammation in the right lung, establiahed yesterday, has in?
creased. The patient's temperature early this morning was 38.1 Reaumur; at 2 o'clock
39.5 and this evening 39.6. Breathing had accelecrated to 30 respirations a minute.
Appetite small and vitality visibly lowered."
Nevertheless, he insisted on giving daily audiences, and yesterday Premier von
Koerber was with the Emperor for an hour.From Geneva the report came yesterday tJ_t
the sacrament had been administered to the Emperor on Saturday.
DEATH INCREASES
PRUSSIA'S POWER
Francis Joseph Opposed
Domination of Empire
by Kaiser
x - ?? n ? M ? I aai*
Washington. Nov. Jl. News of Kran
cis Joseph's death was received without
surprise by officiala of the government
the Au-tnan Kmbassy. Reports to
the embassy recently have indicated
that he was near death.
It is declared that the conduct of the
var will in no way be affected. If any?
thing, it may be expected, it is said.
that Prussia will more than ever domi
r.etc Austna-Hungary. The old Km
reror, who fought through .he war with
l'ru_-;_ in lM_i has been a stumbling
block to the complete I'russianism of
the Dual Monarchy. and friends of the
Teutonic Alliance say it will be far
eaeier tor (iermany to deal with a new
Emperor than with the old one.
Talk of a separate peace between
Austria and the Allies as a reault of
the death of the Kmperor therefore i?
not taken .enously m diplomatie cir?
cles here.
The ae* Emperor of Austria and
King of Hungary emerges from the
lurid gloom of tragedy and acandal
ti plunge headlong into an all but uni
v, r-al cataclysm menacing the very ex
Itteaee of his dual realm. The reign of
bi_ predecessor, his great-uncle, was a
tiagedy of nearly threescore and ten
ytars. The brief career of his fathc*.
v ho did r.ot reign, wa. an unspeakable
scandal. His uncle, who was prevented
t v murder from succeeding to th.
tl.rones, was an arbitrary reactionary.
who would have mtensiried the anti
popular status of the H?p?burg?. Thi.
i ..iiiiiiue. -.ii P-?e . ..I ...... ".
THREATENED TO ABDICATE
Solemn chureh services and patriotic meetings throughout
the land testified last December 2, the sixty-seventh anniversary
of the regin of Francis Joseph, to the veneration with which he
was regarded. Cliquea and party affiliations were forgotten while
the praises of their ruler were sound ed by his people.
"All the newspaper. without regard to party," said the Over
*ea? News Agency, "publish appreciation of the sixty-seven years'
rule of the nation's revered monarch. They point out tbe solidar
ity of all the nationalities within the Dual Monarchy and express
the firm conviction that the great achievement. of the nation'i?
ermies will result in the Emperor'. signing a glorious peace."
Although on that day his people looked forward to the sign?
ing of "a glorious peace" by Francis Joseph, there had been
numerous rumors that percolated through neutral countries that
all was not well with its ruler.
In January, 1915, it was reported from Geneva that Francis
Joseph was about to abdicate because of difference. with his im?
perial ally, the German Emperor. The attitude of the Kaiser
regarding peace was said to be at variance with that of the ruler
of Austria-Hungary, and they likewise were unable to agree on
military policies.
It was said that the decision was reached by Francis Joseph
after Archduke Charles Francis and Baron von Burian. the Austro
Hungarian Minister of Foreign Affairs, had returned from an un
satisfactory conference at Berlin.
Reign Began Amid Rebellion;
I.nded in World's Greatest War
Krancis Joieph 1, Kmperor flf A'.s-.
tria. Apostoiic King of Hungary. waa
born on August IH, lS.'IO, at Laxenburg.
a castle near Vienna built after the
rnost romantic mediarvm nioiiels* by hia
grandfather. Kmperor Francis I, >aho
uis an admirea of Walter Scott.
At his birth the new r-cion. of the an
lieat and illustrious houae of Haps
burg lad no certain chance of ever
i.M-.'nUing the AuMnun throne, although
bfl came to be looked upon aa the nat
ural heir long before he attained it
His grandfather. Krancia I, waa stil.
alive. and deatined lo reign tor ftVfl
yeara more. He was .
elder aon, Krancia Joi?nh'-.
dir.and I, who had married u 1? .
daughter of Victor Kmmanu ?! of |ai
(uiiia. the future King of Italy. I,ut ha.l
r.o iasue. The sueceaMon would, there?
fore, in the course of events fall to hia
brother, the Archduke Kranr:-. t harlea,
and descend fn m him in the fulneaa af
time to his hon. the yourg I'rince
Krancia Joseph Hut the flflfl
tjry haatened ?vent*.
The mother of Kr?i tha
<
