THE. WBATHER FOMCAAt.
Fair to-dy i trr incrW..Y f0ud
inm and warrior; taat wiatda. '
IT SHINES FOPv ALL
Hlfhett temperature ye.Ur.U7, 4.: lowest,
Detailed weather, mall and mHm teaortson pete 11.
mm
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 88.
R. R. MANAGERS
PLAN TEST SOIT;
DECISION JAN. 1
reims.vlvanin, New York
Central and Burlington
Heads Sec Gregory.
CONFER TO-DAY yiTH
ATTOBNEY-GENERAL
Hope to Hasten Supreme
Court Ruling on the
Adamson 8 Hour Law.
GOVERNMENT MOTION
FILED IN KANSAS CITY
T. S. Starts Constitution
ality Fight oher ActiQiis
May Be Dropped.
Washington, Nov. 21. Conatltu.
tonality of the Adamson act may be
determined by the Supreme Court be
fore January 1, when It becomes ef
fective, through an understanding be
tween the railroads of the country at
tacking It and the Department of Jus.
t!ce. Attorneys for the Pennsylvania.
New York Central and Burlington
road conferred to-night with Attorney-General
Gregory and Solicitor
General Davis and It Is understood the
question was discussed of making a
test case of one of the suits with
view to bringing the law before the
Supreme Court as soon as possible.
Although Department officials were
reticent about the conference It Is be
lieved further negotiations will be un
dertaken to-morrow and that there Is
ptospect of an agreement which would
liut the Issue on one case.
t
Declsloa May !: All I.UIa-atlea.
If this course Is adopted both the
Department and tho railroads will
make every, effort to expedite the case
they may select for the test.
Although the question arose fust Wf.
day at Kansas City In the cane of the
Missouri. Oklahoma and Gulf the pres.
tnt Intention here Is to make the fight
on the suit of the Atchison. Topeka and
Santa Fe suit set for hearing there
Thursday. ,
A decision by the Supreme Court
oull not In law be binding on other
litigants, but If the railroads and the
Department agreed thst all parties
ihuuld abide by a decision In this case
r.o other suits would be begun, and
tlK.fe already Instituted would be
dropped. . ,
Both sides are represented as anxious
that there be an early decision by the
highest Federal tribunal of the validity
of the Adamson act In view of tne-Jmv
portance of the Issues Involved anlbe,
unsettled condition which may reeeK
from failure to have a flnal Interprets,
tlon promptly. The Departmental
course probably will not be determined
finally until the representatives of the
Department of Justice at Kansas City
are communicated with and pass on the
advisability of resting the Issue on this
(are,
Hallway Esecatlvee Caster.
The railway executive now In Wash
bton held an extended meeting to-day
t determine the order In which their
tftlmony will be presented Thursdav
to the Joint Congressional committee In
eitlgatlns railroad problems. Their
first spokesman will be A. P. Thorn,
counsel to the railway executive and
sdt-lsmy committee.
Frank Trumbull, chairman of the ad
vljory committee, gave out a statement
J)lng the executives wanted to help
the Joint committee In arriving at a
conclusion which would make the ra'I
ro.icN more useful, but adding:
'The representative of the railroads
had no completed plan or programme
lo aubinlt at this time and (Ud not wish
' appear as the advocates or opponents
of any special plan."
Mr Trumbull said the executives felt
that many laws relating to railways,
especially State laws, weie primarily
punitive and restrictive.
V. S. ASKS QUICK ACTION.
Motion riled la Kiimi City lo Be
Decided To-day.
Kansas Cur, Mo., Nov. 21. Legal
kirmlahlng 111 the tight of the railroads
the United States against the Adam-
"'i Hunt hour law was brought to a
uldn jau(! to-day by a motion filed
l' the Government In the United States
District Court here which. It Is expected,
lll icault In a decision on the con
'tltutlnnAllty of the law by the Supreme
t'ourt of the United States before Janu
y 1, when the law Is to go Into effect
"I'lolnuged, ur.necei.sary and scatteted
lillMllon should. If possible, be avoided,
"iheiwlsc injury may result to the pub
1" .mil ttm railroads and their em-
I'lojees," the government say In Its
hiotlon as a reaspn for Its action.
lilst of Government's Motlea.
The (iovernment's motion, which was
directed against Alexander New and
Henry ( Ferriss, receivers for the Mia
out I, Oklahoma and Uulf Ilallroad, em
Mled two distinct requests of the court,
follows;
"1 The (lovrrnment asks an Immedl
e decision on the Injunction petition
hied liy the receivers for the Missouri,
Oklahoma and Uulf, in which the Adam
"hi law was attacked as unconstitu
tional, and an order required forbidding
Us enforcement. The Government , con
it ml that the Injunction petition should
. e dismissed because the law Id coastl
I tutlonal, therefore leaving .the rslhreod
basis In equity for Its action.
"2. Should tha law be hald uiutaoall.
tutlonnl the Government sks that tha
uun airect the receivers for the rail
road to Join the Oovemment la get tin
the ia advanced Immediately to tee
Supreme court of Use. United, autee far.
final decision.'', ' .V?.,
Juris WUAlaa. C -- ..-- l aha,
nMsr11- ,--iiw rM
Ft I aha WawaBBSBBBBBBBBBBasfaBBBBBBTaBBBBBBBB aaaaaaaaaaamaaawaaWwa I .im".it, w J " I
U-BOAT SINKS BIGHT
VESSELS IN ONE DAY
Bwrlia Says One Ghaunel Vic
tim a French Destroyer
Britala Dob lei It.
BoattM, via I-ondon, Nor. 31 A Ger-
man submarine sank In the English
Channel .November 14 a French guard
vessel and seven merchantmen, one of
them a Norwegian, according to an of
ficial communication Issued to-day. The
communication says:
"One of our submarines In the English
Channel on the fourteenth sank a French
guard vesael, apparently a torpedo boat
destroyer of the Arc or Sabre class, and
besides six enemy merchantmen. The
same U-boat sank the Norwegian
steamer . Ullvang, which was carrying
war material for the French Govern
ment." London, Nov. 51. The following com
munleatlon was Issued by the British
Admiralty to-night In connection with
the Berlin report of the sinking of a
French guard vessel:
"The British Admlrslty state on au
thority of the French Ministry of Marine
that no French war vessel was sunk the
14th In tha English Channel."
The master and part of the crew of the
Norwegian ateamer Finn landed to-day
and reported that their vessel had been
sunk by a Cermsn submarine.
The ateamshlp Director landed eight
members of the crew of the Creek
steamer Marie N. Rouasos, which cap
sited. The other members of the crew
were drowned.
ATlllKa, Nov. 20. (via London, Nov.
31). The Spetaaea was torpedoed by a
submarine this morning. At east one life
was lost. The flpartl Is also reported
torpedoed and sunk.
The foregoing probably refers to the
Greek steamship Spetxal of 1,904 tons
gross, owned in Plrstus. There Is also n
Greek battleship Rpettal, which In Sep
tember was reported from Athens to
have Joined the Anglo-French naval
forces In Greek waters. She displaces
4,804 tons.
'KAISER SUPPORTS HOLLWEO.
Paallcly Declares for ('aadeataa
tloa at Chaaeellor'a Critics.
But UN. via London, Npv. :t. Em
peror William has just taken occasion
to declare publicly his support of chan
cellor von Bethmann-Holiweg against at
tacks upon him by his opponents at
home.
A number of prominent persons In
Karlsruhe and vicinity having recently
sent the Chancellor a letter condemning
the campaign of his opponents against
him and the present methods of conduct
ing the war.Tan'd having sent a ropy of
this document to the Emperor the latter
caused the chief of the Civil Cabinet to
reply In the Emperors behalf that he
observed with lively satisfaction this
demonstration from Karlsruhe.'
SAILORS "PUT LAW"
ON THEATRE MEN
Four Bluejackets Have War
rants Issued Charging
Discrimination.
Warrants were Issued yesterday by
Magistrate Mrdulre In the Adams street
police court, Brooklyn, for the arrest of
Ha'rry Traub. owner of the Olympic
Theatre, and his house manager, Kd
Ward Oottman, who are charged with
violating the State law In discriminating
against sailors in uniform. Application
for the warrants were mude bv Assstant
United States District Attorney Cuff.
Edward Hill, a sailor on the hospital
ship Solace, now In the navy yard, swore
that he and three other sailor bought
box seat tickets on Sunday for the per
formance at the theatre, but that they
were refused admittance to any of the
boxes. They were told, so they said, that
the gallery was the place for them, as
"no decent people will sit In a box with
a sailor In uniform."
The bluejackets reported the occur
rence to the executive officer, Ulackw.MI,
of their vessel. The latter turned them
over for examination to Surgeon Wood
land, who found that the men were "per
fectly sober." Thon the sailors nnde a
second visit to the theatre with the
same result, they swore.
Both Uottman and Traub denied that
they refused to allow the sailors to sit
In the boxes, but Insisted that the blue
jackets could not occupy two of the or
chestra boxes. .These seats. It was ex
plained, are not for sale to the general
public. The case will be threehed out In
court this morning.
QUITS $80,000,000 CONTRACT.
Mldtale Slrel Co. Won't Make
Rifles for British.
Philadelphia, Nov. 21. The Mid vale
Steel and Ordnance Company virtually
hna relinquished Its $o,uuu,ovu army
rlflo contract,
Under an arrangement somewnai sim
llsr to that by. which the British and
Itussian commissions took over the Hub
elan shell contract from the Kddystone
Ammunition Company some weeks ago,
the British commiralon now takes up
the Bemlngton Arms Company contract
which covered z.ooo.ouo isnnew nnes. in
both these contracts the Baldwin loco
motive Works had an Interest In the
way of royalties and In the construction
of the huge buildings under Improvement
lease arrangements on us jujniunc
property. . .,.,.
It is unaersioou wiai mic onnn
mission reimburses the Mldvate Com
pany to the extent or perhaps $10,000,
nnn rash, which has gone Into the Item-
Ington Arms operations.
HO C. P. 1. CABS TO CROSS LIKE.
Oae lleelllltles Break Oat la Ilall
road Coatreversjr.
VANCOUVgs, B. ('.. Nov. 21, The con
trove rsy between the Canadian I'aclflc
Railroad and tha American lines relative
to rstsntlon of freight cars reached open
kaaiiiiitas to-day when D. Coleman, as
sistant general manager of the Canadian
PacUe. issueq instructions siuiis me
.hai. tins that under no circumstances
hovld any Canadian I'aclflc freight car
ha BOfMlftat to cross the border Into
.ziaiutJfSiSiL, laMaU said AmarU
sasaaawa-.
NEW YORK, WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 22,
U. 5. STEEL RAISES 250,000
MEN $18,000,000 ANNUALLY
Corporation Meets High Cost of Living With Ten
Per Cent. Wage Increase, the Third Since
the First of the Year.
The United states Steel Corporation
announced last night nn Increase of 10
per cent, in the wages of the employees
of Its Iron snd steel companies, effective
December 15. The Increase affects
about 220.000 employees, adds about
IIS, 000,000 annually to the payroll and
brings Hi average wage of the em
ployees to the highest point In the his
tory of the corporation. Wages and
aalary Increases In other departments of
the coriwratlon also will be adjusted
equitably.
"Ordinarily the question of wages
would not come up for consideration or
decision ol this time or year." said Judge
Gary, chairman of the corporation, In
making the announcement, "but In con
sequence of the abnormal conditions now
existing It has been decided to Increase
the wage rates of our Iron and steel
companies about 10 per cent., to take
effect December 15. As to other depart
ments, Incieases will be equitably pro
portioned." Judge Oary declined to make any fur
ther comment on the advance In the
wages, but another official said the ac
tion of the board of directors was taken
"Willi due regard for the higher prices
now prevailing for necessaries of lire In
all parts or the cuuntry."
Talrd lacreasr This Vear.
This Increase Is the third to be put
Into effect this year, the total Increase In
wages amounting to more than Co cents
a day for the average workmen or the
corporation. The first advance or 10 per
cent, was put Into effect on February
1 and added about $15,000,000 to the
annual payroll. The second udvance lie
cams effective May 1 and added about
1 17,000,000 annually to the corporation's
payroll.
Common lnbor under the new wags
rate will receive about 12.(7 a day, com
pared with 2.4I at present and $2 be
fore the war. Total salaries and wages
paid tu the company's ltl,13 employees
In 1915 aggregated $176,800.1(4. Since
that time the number of employees has
Increased greatly It Is estimated the
payroll of the corporation at this time
is between $200,000,000 and $320,000,000.
which implies an Increase of approxi
mately $18,000,000 under tha higher rate
of pay.
Independents Mmy Fallow.
Steel men took It for granted that the
Independent concerns, which are now
earning the highest rates In their his
tory, would follow the lead of the Steel
Corporation. It Is also stated that the
Increase, which probably Vlll be granted
by the Independent concerns will be In
the form of bonuses more than prema
nent waxes, and that the latter will con
tfnue only as long as the companies con
tinue to do the present great business.
The -retatlons between the Steel Cor
CALLS NIGHT COURT
SOCIETY SIDE SHOW
Chief .Magistrate McAdoo Says
It's Favorite Sport of Some
I'ptown Persons.
Chief Magistrate McAdoo and Dr
Katharine Uemeut Pavls, chairman of
the I'arole Commission, had a tug of
war yesterday over the $500,000 appro
priated many years ago for a new court
and detention house for women. It was
at the annual meeting of the New York
Probation and Protective Association In
the Russell Sage Foundation Building.
Magistrate McAdoo, Dr. Davis and Miss
Maude K. Miner, secretary of the aseo
elation, went the speakers. Oorge W.
Alger presided.
Dr. Davis admitted that she was one
of the original group of women who
worked hard to get the city to appro
pi late money for a new building to re
place the antiquated Jefferson Market
couit. Hut elin saw matters In a new
light now, she mild, nnd while realizing
the evils of the present rouit and deten
tion pen In which young girls and old
burdened women are herded together
while awaiting trial she believed, since
money woa so scarce, that this fund was
more needed to establish a farm colony
for the 700 women prisoners now serv
ing sentences on Illsckwcll's Island and
In other prisons.
Magistrate McAdoo intimated that If
Dr. Davis had ever presided over the
Jefferson Market court on n sweltering
July night she would feel differently.
"The neighborhood Is malodorous," he
said, "nnd the noise of the 'I.' trains
makes It a nerve racking experience to
try these delicate cases there. The
court room Is too large. By having a
small court In b detention building we
can shut out that mob of human foxes,
mostly of the male porsuaslon, that now
swarm to hear tho evidence and stare at
the unfortunate women.
"doing to night court Is now a fa
vorite amusement with some uptown
persons, who, after a heavy dinner, say :
'Well, shall we go to a root garden or
the night court? They come to be en
tertained by uh and feel cheated If some
or the prisoners don't scream or faint.
But at the risk or depriving these sight
seers of amusement I plead for tho Im
mediate use of that appropriation In the
way that was Intended the erection or
a court and detention house further up
town, where women arrested and wait
ing trial ran be kept and tried under
decent conditions,"
Magistrate McAdoo favored a day
rather than a. night court for women.
Miss Miner spoke last. She said that If
there wasn't enough money left to carry
out the original plans the building could
be made smaller and still accommodate
22S women. She dilated on the Injustice
of penning up women held aa witnesses
with old offenders, as must be done now,
Nugfar Cards la ftwllaerlaud.
Washington, Nov. 21. Switzerland's
sugar shortage, according to consular
advices, has become so serious that deal
ers have asked the government to Intro
duce sugar .cards. America Is selling
sugar to the Swiss for the first time.
Sales already this year have totalled
nearly 3,000.000,
rlNXHlBST HOTKLa AM$t OOt-f UNU
new . ilM-aeeeeMdAtoJUaeTtltlflrwar.
Am
i , i
poration and Its employees have always
been very amicable. The company has
done a great deal to Improve the home,
social and physical conditions of Its
workers, and has erected model 'tene
ments for the use of men mid their
families In the cities where Its plants
sre . located. The corimratlon has u
pension scheme and a profit sharing plan
for the benefit of Its employees. These
are considered models In this country
and abroad. Atmosf. every year the em
ployees are given an opportunity to buy
both common and preferred stock of the
corporation at prices below the market
quotations. Most of the employees who
have taken advantage of this schQittu
have large profits to their credit.
NEW ENGLAND WAGE UP.
Woollen Workers Herri r lit Har
Cent. Raise.
Hoston, Nov. 21. A 10 per Cent, wage
Increase In all the mills of the American
Woolen Company, which employs 35,000
bands In New Kngland and New York
State, was announced In the headquar
ters of the company here to-night. At
the same time the Arlington .Mills,
whose big cotton plant at l.awrcnco
employs 5,000 hands, announced "a
higher scale of wages." the amount of
which was not specified. It was be
lieved that the new scale would be simi
lar to that made public last night by
the Cotton Manufactures Association of
New Bedford granting their 33.U0O cm
ployres a 10 per cent, lalse.
All the Increases In the pay of textile
operatives thus far nnnouncwl are to be
effective December 4, In most instances
they mark the third advance within the
calendar year and bring the wakes to
the highest point 'In the history of the
industry.
It was estimated In textile circle
that the granting of a 10 per cent, raise
In all New Kngland mills would mean un
addition or more than $10,000,000 ;i year
to contents of the pay envelopes.
HIGH WAGE MARK IN N, Y,
.More Mrs KmplorU and .More
Miner I'ald Oat Than Since I III 4.
More workers were employed and a
larger aggregate of wages was paid In
factories In this State In October than
In nuy month since June, 1914, when the
State Industrial Commission began to
keep records. The previous high mark
tiad been In September, but last month
bettered the record of that month.
As compared with October, 1915, there
were IS per cent, more employees and
29 per cent, more wages; as compared
with October, 1914, there were 23 per
cent, more emplojees and 49 per cent,
more wages. The average weekly earn
ings last month were $14.93, as com
pared with $14. SC In September. A Jeur
ago the average earnings were $13,30;
two ears ago $12.24.
I TEUTON ENVOYS TO
QUIT ATHENS TO-DAY
Entente Allies Refuse Urmiiiitl
for Delay in Their
Deportation.
London', Nov. 21, A Neuter ileMutili
I from Athens nays the delay demanded
by the Austro-tlemiau diplomats In
their deportation rrom Athens hus been
refused and that all of them will leave
Athens to-morrow morning.
The Austrian Minister has decided to
leave quietly to-morrow. Tim departure
of the German Consul-tlenernl and I'rof.
Karow, director of the Austrian Arcluro
logical School, and several other Aus
triads and (lei mans has aU.i lieeii dr.
manded.
Apart ftom the fact that nets of
espionage are charged against the enemy
Minlsteis, It Is pointed out that a recent
statement from Count Mlrhnch.-the Oer
inan Minister, to the effect thut esels
carrying recruits to Sulonlcu would he
sunk by Uermau submarines constitutes
it declaration of war nsnlnst that purl
of (Ireern which is lit war on the side of
the Allies. The Crown Council, which ut
three hours to-day under the presidency
of the King in order to consider the ex
pulsion of the four Ministers, decided It
was Impossible for the Government to
prevent the execution of the allied order.
Count Mlrbach Is said to have refused
to take cognisance of Admiral Fournet's
communication and to have returned it.
The Crown Council approved the re
fusal of the Government to hand over
Greek army material In order to make
good the material delivered to Genitalis
and Bulgarians.
"It Is learned that Premier Hi laud
of France In u telegram to the King
suggested that In order to emerge from
his present dlfllcultles he seek a rec
onciliation with former Premier Vi.nl
xelon and decline war on ltulcurlu,
While the suggestion thut the King
reeull Venlaelos is meeting with oppo
sition In Athens sentiment In favor of
the Ing accepting the other principal
sugscsllon, namely, that he decline war
on Bulgaria, Is grqwlng.
An the I.ambros Cabinet Is a purely
service one It is understood tu bo the
opinion of the King that It should be
replaced by a Cabinet representing at
least the present Boule (Legislative As
sembly) ; therefore the restitution of
the Ministry Is under consideration, to
be folowed by a reorganized Kalouero
poutos Cabinet nlong lines Informally
suggested by the King to the Entente
Powers pn September 21, It Is further
understood that the King proposes to
consult with the ICnteute Powers with a
view to avoiding such u failure iih uc.
curred In the case nof the Ministry un
der Premier Kalogeropoulos.
Athens, Nov, 20, via London, Nov.
21. The Crown Council has decided in
principle to refuse to surrender the nrma
and munltlonH-ef Greece to the Kntente
Allies, as denjflnded by Vlce-Adinlrul
du Fournet, thV commander or the al
lied fleet. King Constuntlno on leaving
the palace after the meeting was
cheered by a crowd which was waiting
the conference's decision. It Is un.
dtrstood that Premier I.ambros will re
main In power for the present,
This morning the secretary or the
American Legation, Sheldon Whltehousc,
had a conference with the Turkish, Bul
garian and Austrian Ministers with ref
erence to the United States taking over
the Interests of their nationals. The
Dutch. Minister will be charged with the
care of tha Qtrman Interests,
1916. Copynpht, lilt, ey toe
DEUTSGHLAND SAILS
AS THRONG CHEERS
Submarine Departs From Xcw
London in Daylight With
out Secrecy.
HI'OdiNO 3 MIIE LIMIT
Likely to lie Off Nantucket
'l'i is .Mot-niiis Unless Cap
tain Clinngcs Course.
Nkw fiNnoN, Conn., Nov. 21. Half a
doin persons on Observation Point at
Watch Hill, It. I., saw the last of the
submarine Deutschland this evening Just
as the sun was sinking behind their
hacks.
Far to the east was a tiny spot grown
gray In the gutherlng dusk and the dis
tance. As the sun dropped the spot
faded out aud the orean was left un
disturbed. Hy morning the tiudeisea freighter
should be off Nantucket unless another
accident Intervenes and unless Capt,
Kuetilg, her commander, runs her up or
down the cosst to elude any British
warships which may be lying In watt
for her. She will still be Inside the three
mile limit when dawn makes her visible
and the water will be plenty deep enough
for her to submerge. If Capt. Koenlg and
Ills crew display again the skill and
daring and have the luck which carried
them safely across the ocean three times'
the famous German submersible and her
12,000,000 cargo will probably be back
lr. Hreineuhuven In two weeks und half
or less.
. leeldeul This Time.
There was no accident to-day to mar
her departure such aa that of last Frl
da., when after smashing Into and sink
ing one of her convoying tugs with a
lis of live lives Capt. Koenlg had to
turn the boat back to her dock. The
Deutschland left over the same course
she went out on then, through the
treat herous reefs and swirling waters
off Hare Hock, Into the Sound with
qulckenliK epeed and then out toward
the Often ocean.
Just after 1 o'clock this afternoon the
boys, the obi time mariners, the occa
sional sightseers, the newspaper men and
the others who had made It their duty
to watch as carefully as they Could from
shore all the activities aboard the, un
dersea vessel agreed that Capt. Koenlic
and tits crew appeared to be more busy
than usual.
As her departure st sny time was
expected the watchers came to the con
clusion that the Deutschland was about
to set under way. Word spread
through the town and most of the In
habitants, men nnd women, the blind,
the lnme, the halt, babes In arms, dod
dering old men, lined the banks of the
harbor on both Hides.
Tuits Open Gate.
Two tugs, provided by the Scott
Wrecking Company, owners of tha Ill
fated T. A. Scott, Jr., which was sunk
last Friday, came puffing to their task,
They swung away the high fence, nailed
on pontoons, which srreened tho sub
marine from sight on one side, and
veered the North German Lloyd
freighter Wltlehad, screening another
side, uround so the way was clear. Then
they lay by waiting to escort the
freighter out.
Neither crew nor captain paid any at
tention to the watchers. Finally at 2 :20
everything was In readiness to suit
Capt. Koenlg. nnd he gave the order to
cast off. The Deutschland backed slow
ly out from the pier, half turned and
headed out towanl !,ong Island Sound.
The tug Alert mid tho ateamer Frank
i:. Heckwlth. which has been serving as
ii lighter, chugged along behind.
(heer rolled from the spectators on
the west shore over to the other side,
where they were caught up by those
then- and sent back again. Both shores
were lined with automobiles, of which
there must hava been 1,000, as well as
crowds on foot, The movie men were
collectively grinding off thousands of
feet of film from the State pier when she
left, and then they dashed out to the old
Pequot House wharf to gel more pic-
lures. ,
No Warshlna In Nlaht. I
The new and the captain were on
deck, but they paid no heed to the sirens
of the eBsos In the river, to the toot
ing of automobile hoina or to the cheers,
not even responding by as much as n
wave of the hand. Her speed was about
six knots until she got close to the New
London light, three miles from her pier:
then she quickened to ten knots, and
when she struck the tloodtlde waters of
the Itaco she Jumped her speed to twelve
knots, making the Alert and Heckwlth
puff angrily In llielr efforts lo keep tho
pace
Near Hace flock the Alert was sent
back. Aboard her was Capt. Frederick
lliuscli, the only representative of the
Cistern Forwarding Company who went
out to sea. Capt. lllnsch, through a
megaphone, shouted out guttural fare
wells In German to Cnpt, Koenlg, who
responded, nnd then the Alert, turned
about.
The Heckwlth was left behind after
both vessels had passed through the
P.nee. nnd then tho Deutschland was
left alone, except for tho strlns of pri
vate motor boats behind her. Then she
Increased her speed to ubout fourteen
knots, nnd kept this up until she was
out of sUht.
There were no warships of anv de
scription In sight off Fisher's Island, and
If the Deutschland had headed straight
out to sen It Is believed she would have
escaped detection from the enemy, in.
stead she kept heading due east, as If
she planned tn pass Nantucket.
On her way out she passed the United
States cruiser Columbia, n United States
monitor and five submarines which were
going through manoeuvres. In each case
the American Jacklcs lined their desks
nnd yelled sulutes to the German sailors
who waved their hands In reply.. '
MINISTER VON JAO0W RESIGNS.
i.
Alfred KliNUirrmaiui llxnrcted tu
Succeed o Forelvu Post,
Amstkiipam (via I-ondon), Nov "l '
Gottlieb von Jagow, the German M'in'ls
ter of Foreign Affairs, has resigned or
cording to a Berlin despatch. The con
dition of his health is given ai the cause
of his resignation,
Dr, Alfred Klmmermann, Under Secre
tary of Foreign Affairs, the despatch
adds, probably will succeed Ilerr von
Jagow,
The Tageblatt prints a rumor that
Herr von Jagow will become Ambassador
at vienaa,
Sun Printing and PUMng Attcctatton.
EMPEROR OF AUSTRIA-HUNGARY DEAD;
RULED DUAL MONARCHY 68 YEARS;
A SOVEREIGN OF MANY SORROWS
SBBBBSBBBBBaBBaSBBBBBBBSBBaBBBBBBBBBk '
aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa??"' ' , .
1 ' -1
? aaaaaaaaaaaas
I f .y"C " rf jeepiBg w t
, Francis Joseph, Emperor of Austria.
First of the rulers of the warring countries to die since the conflict began.
RUMANIAN ARMIES CAUGHT
IN A TRAP; FACE DISASTER
Von'Falkenhayn's Troops Occupy Important City of
Craiova and Compel Retreat of 40 Miles Fear
in London Mackensen Is Executing Coup.
!.o.spon, Nov, 21 outgeneraled, out
numbered nnd initfluukcd, the Human
Ian unities In the west apparently nie
trapped between two powerful sections
of Field Marshal von Fulkcnhiiyn's In
vading forces. F.very Indication Is,
that a disaster Is Inevitable unless it
miracle Intervenes.
The German strategist has been
pounding the Humanlans sluwly buuth
ward along the Jlul Vulley for weeks.
To-day came the sudden announce
ment that ut noon Iih troops occupied
the Important city of Craiova, 120
miles west of Bucharest, on the main
line of railroad between the capital und
Orson, Fiom thW the obvious con
clusion Ls thut lie so far outnumbered
aud outmanoeuvred his adversaries
that wlille lie was pushing back the
Hiimanlan army In the Jlul Valley
with part of his forces another arm of
his command aed uround the east
flank of the Humanlun army In that
section und captured Its principal liaHe
In the reur.
Ilrlreat Forty .lilies.
The Rumanian forces which had been
holding Craiova tetreated forty miles
northwest along the railroad to Fllllash
(Flliachu), where a blanch lull
load Joins the main line. Hut
their direct movement and that of
the Jlul army toward Bucharest '
In the east Is rut off by the German I
coup. At I he siiiir time the Rumanian
forces at Orsova, already occupied In
staving off a frontal attack, now aie
menaced from the rear ns well. The
Humankin army in t tie Alt valley, par
allel to midnot far east of tho Jlul Vul
ley, also Is menaced.
Only a sudden and seemingly Im
probable reversal of the tables can Hive
the Orsova, Jlul and Alt armies fiom
being hammered, from three sides while
they effect u Juncture and attempt to
withdraw eastward through a narrow
zone to Pitescl and Bucharest. From
all the data at hand this Is the best
that can happen to the Rumanian arms.
The worst aspect Is that the Germans
have lielter than a sporting chance of
striking eastward at Bucharest Itself,
along the railroad to Pitescl, which
would cut the communications of the
army at Klinpolung with Buebarest. In
that case the Rumanians would be sur
rounded. However, the arrival of Russian ie
enrorcements seems to have stiffened the
Rumanian defences noitli of Klinpolung.
The Russians took the offenslye in that
region to-dsy. Further successes, or
oven a continued successful defence,
would keep a line of retreat open across
country.
In tha Alt Valley the Germans contin
ued to advance south of Hothenthurm
pass, which serves further to endanger
AMERICAN DIPLOMAT INSULTED.
Coasul-Urneral Murphy I'nrlvllly
Treated by German Officials,
Ammtkriiam, Nov. 21, Dominic I.
Murphy. American -onsul-Gener.il at
Sofia, Bulgaria, arrived here to-day
through Germany from Stockholm, where
he went recently with his wife to visit
their daughter.
Despite tho fact that Mr. Muiphy had
a special pass from the German Lega
tion at The Hague, It ta stated that the
German authorities at Waruemuende
treated the couple with Incivility on their
way to Stockholm and again on their
return, notwithstanding the Intervention
of Dr, Maurice F. Egan. the American
Minister to Denmark, and also' the Ger
man Minister, who hod assured Mr. Mur
phy that the treatment accorded him and
hie wife would not occur again.
ONE CENT
f
the Itumjpiuu iiiuiles further to the
east,
tieilln I'unMdeied tile occupation of
Craluvu or siilllcleiit importance to call
for an (iftlclal bulletin from the War
Olflre several hours nfler the routine
dully olllclal stntement had been given
out, an unusual Mop taken only on the
rarest occasions. This "iostrrlpt"
simply said that the invaders occupied
the town at noon. The routine ottlclal
statement Issued In tho morning said:
"German and Austro-lluiiKurlan
troops north of Klinpolung repulsed sev
eral Russian tilKht attacks. On the Alt
River some Important towns nnd en
trenched heights were captured by us
from the Rumanians in severe struggles.
Gur Infantry stands before Craiova,
which until now has been the seat of
the chief command of the first Rumanian
armv.
"Front of Field Maishal on Mack,
ensen Nothing Important wrurred with
the exception of artillery engagements.
Constnnza nnd reinuvudn were shelled."
The Russian olllclal statement said:
"In Trnnsylvanln. in the Alt Valley, the
enemy- continued his attacks with the
usual force. Under ptessure of the
enemy the Rumanian troops are retiring
slowly southward. In the Jlul Valley the
Ituniiinluns, under the pressure of su
perior enemy forces, retired to the region
of Fllllash."
Vienna adds In an olllclal leport:
"Fast of the Alt River we have gained
a footing on. the heights south of the
Soattenl. Rlvel "
f Foreast li lleporls.
The official teporls from both CTer
man and Russian headquarters the last
two ila hint piepared tho public for
the news of the success of the Central
Powers' thrust at Rumania, but it had
been hoped that Russia, which was
known to b.i sending leenforremetits
into Rumania as faat us possible, might
be in time to nveit Die blow. It Is
admitted thut the positions of the Ru
manian rorces In Orsova are now ex
tremely critical und they may be com.
pelled to evacuate the Orsova region
the holding of which has up to the pres.
em boned the Teutonic allies from
the use of the Danube.
According to Information In Ruman
ian quarters In London, tho Kntente
Allies had already made provision that
tho huge stores of grain In Craiova
should not fall Into enemy hands. The
swiftness with which Von Fslkenhayn
struck Ids blow caused surprise here,
aa to-day x Russian ofllclul communlrn
tlon reports the. Rumanian retreat as
having only leached Fllllash, ubout
forty tulles noithwest of Craiova,
Some anxiety Is felt because nothing
has been heard of the German Field
Marshal ion Mitrkensen's operations In
Dohrudja for some time, nnd It Is sug
jested that his recent jctreat may have
been a deliberate move to conceal. th
assemblage of big forces for a possible
crossing of the Danube opiwslte to where
Gen. on Fulkenhsyn Is fighting. In
which case he might he expeeted to be
heard of at Nlklpoll or. further west, at
DIAMOND TRADE BOOMING.
He lleera toi.soll.liited's Report
Minns Lamely Increased Front.,
,Hfffof Cahlr nttpatri lo Tiik Scs.
Lonoon, Nov, 21, A striking lm
provemeut In the dhmond trade Isslinwn
In the ntinual report of the great com
blnatlon known us De Beers Consoll.
dated. For the year ended June 30 the
net revenue of the concern was $10,710 -460,
ugalnst $2,871,995 last year. The
nctual sales of diamonds amounted to
11.1,202,1110 and the profits to I6.1S,00
This enabled preferred share holders to
receive dividends from July, 1914, to De.
cember, 191.1, n payment of $0,000,000.
An explanation of the Improved re
turns Is to be found In the better demand
for diamonds which began to ussert Itself
in the early part ot the financial year.
ta Greater New York. KIsewhere
Jersey City and Newark. TWO CKNTfl.
His Demise Took Place at
Schoenbruiiii Castlu
Last Xiglit.
SAOHAMENT GIVEN
TO HDL SATURDAY
Held Audiences 3ionday;
Kenuiined Out of lied
Xenrly All Day.
CATAJtl.lt STAJITED
HIS LAST ILLNESS
Archduke Charles Francis,
Heir to Throne, at
War .Front,
laj.siMjN, Nov. 22 (Wednesday). t0m
peror Francis Joseph died laat night at
a o'clock nt Schocnbrunn Castle, ac
cording lo a lleuter despatch Xrom
Vienna, by way of Amsterdam.
The Vienna bulletin Issued Tuesday
evening concerning the condition of
the Emperor said:
"The sent of tho Inflammation In tho
right lung, established yesterday, has
Increased. The patient's temperature
curly this morning- was 38.1 Reaumur,
ut 2 o'clock 39.5 und this evening 39.fi.
Breathing had uccclcrutcd to thirty
respirations n minute. Appetlto small
and vitality visibly lowered."
Tho first Intimation received hero that
Emperor Francis Joseph's health was
ugalu the subject of solicitation was
contained In a despatch dated Novem
ber 12 emanating from u Vienna news
agency, which reported that the Em
peror had been suffering for somo days
from a slight catarrhal uffectlon.
Subsequent reports from various
sources, moro or less conlllctlntr. repre
sented that his condition wn bccomlnit
worse, but none, of them Indicated that
his lllties, threatened to reach a critical
state, und from Vienna came assurances
that tie was still uble to give audiences
to one or more .Ministers dally
What gave some ciedcnco to the sus.
plcton that his condition was much
gruver than the olllclal bulletins Indi
cated was tlie report, which still lacks
official confirmation, that It had been de.
elded to associate tlu heir to the throne,
Archduke Charles. Francis. In the gov
eminent of the country and thnt lie was
to assume the position on December 2
on the sixty-eighth iinnlversaty of the
Emperor's ascension to the throne.
So far us Is known hern Archduko
Charles Is Mill at the front In command
of the army.
Archduke Chniles FiaiuK cr.ind
nephew of Hnipernr Fruncla JomyiIi, be
came heir to the throne of Austria
Hungary hy the nssuMdn.itlon of Arch
duke Francis Ferdinand pi lor to the out
bleak of the, war. lit- has been in com
mand of the Austrian nrmlt on lurlous
fronts during (lie past two .wars.
Archduke Charles FranclH was born on
August 17, IssT. ills wife tum Pilncess
Zlta of the Bourbon houso of Parma.
HI father was the Archduke otto, who
was the outNer In other of Finncls
Fridlnuud,
CHANGE FOli THE WORSE
llllliliilnintor.v. ren llei elnpeil In
lie II lit lit I.iiiik,
Hrni.1.", by wireless, Nov. 21 A
Vienna despatch, uys tho overseas Nowa
Agency, tepuits that the condition of
Emperor Francis Joseph became worse
to-day. Ills temperature Increased this
afternoon,
A Geneva despatch quotes the KnUi
Utchti y.rltiuiii as naylng the sacrament
was admlnisteifil to Emperor Francis
Joseph on Saturda
A Vienna lespat!h quotes the follow.
Ing bulletin on the health of th0 Em
peror: "111 night a restilcled Intlammatorv
area appealed in the right lung, other
wise the catarihat symptoms are un
changed. Tin temperature tills mornln.
39, evening .17 s I Reaumur) Heart's
action good, breathing tegular and quiet,
pitlte smaller."
The despatch says that the Emperor
remained out of bed nil of .Monday until
evening and received several visitors.
EMPEROR'S CA REER.
He Hilled l.oimer Than , of ,ie
Mlier lliiiiabiiru.
anvro'rU'l?, J.",Ph "'R""1 'gei man
any of the .other Ilapsbuigs In nil tho
six and a quarter centuries that th
"I- iulcd Austria, llo was on
the throne about slxtj .elnlit joars, IWteeii
years longer than Fiederlrk 111. (H0
M93), whoso lelgn w.1N next In point of
duration.
iMancl.B J"rcl'l "' 'ru August IS,
12'. ? lelllia, tho eldest son of
Archduke I-iimcls and a nephew- of Fer
'i!iUmlJ." wll from 1 S35 ta
i i rVi0 ,,urr ''"l'1''! tbo Debonair,
had yielded thu telns of government
entirely to IVIme Mcttcruuh. and this
-Ministers ie.icllon.it y policy
brought the throne t,i tm vemu r
overthrow. At the. h.giui'ng of ist
Hungary, under tho leadership of i.ouh
Kossuth, was In open revolt. Ch.trloi
Albert of Sardinia had risen nguliwr
Austrian rule, unit ih,. .Mutilans had
been cxpcllui from .Milan and Venice.
Jlettemlcli tied before the storm ho
had aroused, and the faineant ami
debonair l.mpotor ahdlrntnl iifinr twlc-i
lUelng from his capital to the Tirol
Francis Joseph's father was quite as
feeble of purpose as Feidlu.uid 1 and
ha renounced his claim to thi tbroii.
In favor of his so Tho latter w.ik dm.
tlcally the unanimous choice of rim
Austrian court and was popular with
the people, lie. was then IK ,-jM
old. He had been educated very care
fully under the supervision of his grand
father, the father-in-law of Napoleon,
m
I
1
i
I
.A.
r Ml
BaT- . "" e""--' i.Jii.ai.'.
