Alive-.. -
THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAH
10 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, WEDNESDAY MOKNINfl, NOVEMBER 22, 1916.
10 PAGES
VOL. XXVII., NO. 187
STEPS TAKEM TO
ti t eight
HOUR LAW
Republican A. P. Leased Wire .
KANSAS (Try. Nov. 21. l,esal !
skrimiahing in the fight of the rail
roads of the I'nited States against
the Adamson eight-hour law was
drought to u sudden issue today by a
motion filed by the government in
the I'nited Slates district court here,
which it is expected will result in a
decision on the constitutionality of the
law by the supreme court of the I'ni
ted States before January 1, when the
law is to go into effect.
Prolonged litigation should, if pos
sible, be avoided, otherwise injury
may result to the public and the rail
roads and their employes,'' the gov
ernment says in its motion, as a rea
son for its action.
The government's motion, which was j
directed against I mtfs Alexander .New
:md Harry C. Ferris, receivers of the
Missouri. Oklahoma and Gulf rad
road, embodied two distinct re,ties;s
of the oiirt os follows:
"1 The government aW;-s an Im
mediate decision on the injunction
petition filed by the receivers of the
.Missouri Oklahoma and Gulf in 1
which the Adamson law was attacked
ns unconstitutional and an order r
ouested foriiidding its enforcement.
The government contends that the in
junction petition should be dismissed
because the law is constitutional,
therefore, leaving the railroad no hasds
in equity for its action.
"2 Should the law be held uncon
stitutional, the government asks that
the court direct the receivers for the
la'lroad to join the government In
getting the case advanced immediately
to the sup-erne court of the I'nited
St 'tes for finnl der ision."
Judge Wm. C. Hook, sitting in the
case, announced that be will render a
decision tomorrow. Judge Hook stated
from tl-e bench that if the motion
were granted, he would re-iuest re
leivers of the Missouri. Oklahoma nr.il
Gulf to invite the legal representative
of all railroads in the I'ni'ed States
to take p.irt in the proceedings.
Should the law be held rons'itu
t tonal by Judge Hook, it U expec'el
that the railroads will anpeal from th
decision in favor of the government
in an effort to stop the law's dec-e
before January l. In any case, the
government plans to have the ques
tion of constitutionality of th- law be
fore the suoretne rmnt when that
tribunal reconvenes December 4 end
i-. u-fp tnt it be advanced for im
me dime, .heading, t, -f-t
Action in the rase was taken on th
Inim'tion petition of the Missouri.
Oklahoma nnd Gulf rather than on
similar petitions of other roads
throi-yhout tl-e I'nited States, te a-i.
the Missouri. Oklahoma and C.ulf Is
tinder the direction of tie federa'
court That enabled the mrpmnvr'
to ask 'he co-oier;ition of the rallm-id
in obtaining a final ilecMnn of the
case before January 1. This assNt
rnce c:n ! ordered bv tV rnurt ''n 1.
ns Indicated bv Jiide Hook, will tie
t- ordered if he de idea to grant tl
niotioni Had be nvernmcnt peoceebd
agninst a railroad not In receivership,
it wa-t tointed out bv a member of
the government counsel, the rni'rial
mieht have rhosen to .combat te law
brnnh various k nl trvnei'ver'
which wop'd hv delayed the final
(i"tion indefinitely.
Like othe- In'-'nctiop nctitions fPed
l'V manv rail'opdt. th
Mis-nuri. Ol li- i
J.oma nnd Golfs nctL.n snm't ' r
Adnmson law' contended tnt it ''-
i'neoP"it"tiiP"l ve"no"e it 1e-ive '
the railroads of their prnnrtv -nithmt'
doe process of law nnd rnitiiwIM
them to oav sums f monev to pi
t.i..vi without receiving anything in
return.
Decision n" this -nln to nw n'V
V.ivo no Undin" e'feet nntsido t'.e
western Missouri rtnt u-hlcheve-war
it pnc. tn.iv be nullified ty no
penis to the sunrcm" eourt.
"There l n' tl?" t bp cT' ited nhn-'
this action." Frank Hn"crmsn "el i)
ro'inei for tt- ffovernmrt"t. seid to
day, "ft is slmti'' "n a'nn to rd
v.ince tr cafe m.lek'" to the Fii-r-rn"
rr."t wHeh W'H t'e the f!nal prbite-"
The same view w is expressed by
Arthur Miller, attorney for the Mis
souri, Oklahoma and Gulf receivers,
who said the thin" to he done
row ws to pf.aU the bulge's decision.
Mr H?ir-tiin filed the oetition to
day i" tile nem of Krannts M. W'il
(ton. I'nited S'tate dittrht ettorney.
Cot-e Uo Jan. 1.
xv.8HIVGTON. Nov. 21. Tb con-i-titntionalitv
of the Adamson ,"ct mav
l e determineli by the ("inreme cotrt
before JammJi- 1. when it becomes ef
fective, through an understanding n-
Republican A. P. Leated Wire
CHICAGO, Nov. 21. Definite infor
mation to Hyp port rumors that produce
dealers are permitting fruits and veg
etables to rot In the fields in order to
cause a shortage and increase prices,
came to the government officials, who
are investigating the causes of the
present high price of food, today.
B. L. RrutidaffP, a farmer of Gary,
lnd repotted that he hud sold his crop
of seven acres of pumpkins for cash.
When the crop ripened and the pump
kins were allowed to rot In the field,
he tried to find the buyer and learned
that the name and address he had been
given were fictitious.
That similar conditions prevail else
where and that speculators are buying
potatoes, cucumbers, cabbages, pump
kins, apples and other fruits and veg
etables and allowing them to rot un
picked have been rumored in the fed
eral investigation from time to time.
Complaint also was received that a
combination to raise the price of
beans exists and that large quantities
of them, both in bulk and in can. are
being held III Norfolk. Va.. Philadel
phia, nnd Saginaw, Mich. The storing
of these beans, according to the re
port to the federal bureau, has In
creased the cost of canned beans 60
CROPS BIGHT AN
ROT IN ORDER TO BUST PROCESS
DECIDE THE
BY FIRST OF YEAR
tween the railroads of the country
fighting and the departme nt of justice.
Attorneys for the Pennsylvania,
New York Central and Burlington
roads conferred with Attorney General
Gregory and Solicitor general Davis
tonight, and it wns understood the
question was discussed of making a
test case of one of the suits with a
view to bringing 'the law before the
supreme court as soon as possible.
Though department officials were
reticent about the conference it is be
lieved further negotiations w ill he un
dertaken tomorrow and that" there is
prospects of an agreement which
would put the issue on one case. If
this course is adopted, both the de
partment and the railroads will make
I every effort to expedite the case they
may select for the test. Although the
i question arose first today at Kansas
City in the case of the Missouri,
Oklahoma and Gulf, the present inten
tion here is to make the fight on the
suit of the Atchison. Topeka & Santl
Ke suit set for hearing there Tnurs
day. A decision by tVe supreme court
w not ln ; ,,e binding on other
litigants, but if the railroads and the
department agreed that all Parties
should abide by a decision In this
case no other suits would !' begun
and t'.inse already instituted would be
dropped.
Both sides nre represented as anx
iou' that there be an early decision
bv the highest federal tribunal of tlte
validity of the Adamson net ir. view
of the importance of the issues in
volved and the unsettled conditions
which may result from failure to have
a final interpretation promptly.
G. C. Todd and Marvin E. Cnder
wood of the department, are on thiir
wav to Kansas City to appear in the
Santa Fe case and the department's
course pvohpbly will not be deter
mined finally until they are communi
cated with and lass on the advisabili
ty of resting tbe issue on this case.
Because of the seriousness nf the
dispute over the act. President WiNon
hat made recommendations tor tail
road legislation the principal p.irt of
his next messaee to congress, whl-h
he completed late today. These recom
mend, r ions. It became known tonight.
w ill be nmcticallv the 'same as those
mede bv him to congress last Aue'it
v hen tl e Adnmson bill, a part of his
proeram. was enacted to prevent the
(Continued on Pace Three)
Admiral Harris
Throws Light On
High Naval Cost
TRepublican A. P. Leaied Wire
WASHINGTON. Nov. 21.- Light on
the high and growing cost of living
was given the house naval committee
today bv Rear Admiral rrederick It-
Harris, thief of the bureau of yards
and docks. Explaining his estimates
for the fiscal year 1H1S, Admiral Harris
ftiid increasing prices of material -and
labor were rendering the huge navy
building program on which the coun-
try has emliurked doubly extensive.
Submitting an estimate of $2,000,000
for shore station maintenance, as
against $l,Mi.o0 last year, he warned
the committee that the actual sum
needed would be nearly 3.0o0,0tu.
which would, buy no more than J1.S00,
000 did a year ago. He explained that
structural steel had gone up from t'5
to J102. and that last quotations on lo
comotive cranes ran as high as $24,000
for machines that cost $10,000 last
year.
Admiral Harris was doubtful wheth
er it would be possible to construct at
the Philadelphia yards the thousand
foot dry dock for which congress ap
propriated $3,000,000. A similar dock
at Norfolk, he said, apparently could
be furnished t t that price Bids tor
construction of the Philadelphia dock
will be asked next January.
11... Ua,..!,,,. lhinl.l.
1 lie .clUIIIHftl ,r,triuty Jn .
had not yet determined which of the.""" "- "7h. " , h "' -yards
designated for capital ship con- f-'"" Jh J?hti , nr""
struction were to be equipped out of "V"? l in -tatement reported
the $S 000.000 fund am.ropriated last a t,h,ck n the homme district with
year. Complete studies have been fJen'n ut a'tlvlt'"'
made of all four plants, he added, and rronl-
KAM ...III 1. nrt rialnv tt-1 f h pnimlrilP- I
-...-I, ,. hn ih ueretrv decide.
The yards are at Boston. Philadelphia,
Norfolk and Bremerton, Wash.
D . . niuaa wmm m western Wallachia. and probably
III nil 1 1 1 I M means the putting off of important
II I I lllfllr I I II ! Rumanian forces from their line of re
nLLUllLU I U I Craiova lies on the main line be
tween Orsova and Bucharest, about
I about 40 miles northwest of Craiova.
If, General von Kalkenhayn's troops
per cent and dry deans 40 per cent in j have beaten it to Craiova, which is
the last six months. i probable, its railway line of retreat
An agent was sent to Peoria, 111., to thus is severed. Likewise, it would
investigate a report that 28 carloads of apnear thut the Rumanian force which
potatoes had been dumped into the had been operating in the Orsova re
river there. It developed that the po-iglon, was seriously Imperilled, if not
tatties, had been condemnedby health 'cut off by this new Teutonic success,
authorities. The agent was instructed j Craiova, before the war, had a pop
to learn how long they had been held , ulatlon of nearly 51,000, and was an
in cars. active center of Rumanian trade.
Knotty Problem Put Up To
Farm Loan Board In Texas
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
AMARILI4A, Texas. Nov. 21. Are
cattle i'.n agricultural cro;i? This was
the knottiest prol.li m et.eoii"tered by
the federal farm loan board which
he:ird farmers from three slates here
today, urge that a farm loan bank be
located in Amarillo.
"That Is something we will have to
work, out." replied Commissioner
George VV. Norris, to the New Mexico
farmer who enquired "Vou have
lulued u qiieution that thin board will
FINAL WORD IS
GIVEN MEXICANS
IWfTOTHEM
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
ATLANTIC CITY, N. J., Nov. 21.
Whether the long conference of the
Mexican-Americun joint commission
will end with an amicable adjustment
of the problems faced by Mexico and
the L nited States or by a disagree
ment which may result in still more
serious differences depended tonight on
General Carranza's representatives.
The Americans placed before the Mexi
cans today a plun involving the with
drawal of the American troops now in
Mexico under General t'ershing and
the future protection of life and prop
erty along' the international frontier.
The Mexicans have not replied. In
stead, they have offered a few counter
suggestions to gain further time.
That the close of the conference will
not come much before the end of the
week was indicated by the departure
tonight of Dr. J. It. Mott, one of the
Americans, for Cleveland, where he will
speak tomorrow night. He expected
to return late Thursday and ! pres
ent at the meeting Friday of the com
missioners.
The departure of Luis Cabrera for
Philadelphia tonight was much more of
a puzzle than was the going of Dr.
Mott. Mr. Cabrera went without ad
vising the American commissioners of
his intention and it was only after he
had left that it was said by one of
the attaches of the Mexican commis
sion that he had gone to consult Ha
fael Nieto, sub-secretary of finance,
who came to the I'nited States several
days ago regarding changes in the
mining decrees. There was prevalent
here an opinion that he might also re
ceive through Mr. Nieto fresh indica
tions of what General Carranza desir
ed him and his colleagues to do. Mr.
Cabrera left word here that he would
be back in the morning.
Secretary of the Interior Lane and
his colleagues faced tiie Mexican rep
resentatives today and in terms that
were not ambiguous and that appeared
to admit of little debate, submitted the
American proposition. They insisted
that the rights fit all foreigners In
Mexico, American or otherwise, must
be respected.
Under the terms of the program the
American troops will be withrrawn
within sixty or ninety days if in that
time General Carranza has demon
strated his ability to prevent raids In
their vicinity. This conditional with
drawal Is to be followed by the polic
ing of the border by the two armies,
brfl there will lie no joint action. The
.Americun army avIH do its work on its
mrn sde and tho'Mcxican arr.y III
l exeeted to see that disturbance
south of the line are not carried into
the I'nited States.
I case raiders cross the border into
the I'nited States, the American gov
ernment is prepared to pursue them
into Mexico. No restrictions will be
accepted as to the size of the force and
no limit to the field of operations would
be recognized.
When the program was laid before
the Mexican commissioners they ap
peared not to believe that the Ameri
cans really meant that the finar stage
of the long conference had arrived and
that the American proposal was of po
drastic a character. They offered no
debate, but asked time for consid
eration.' At the afternoon joint session the
Mexicans offered u few suggest ions, the
exact character of which Could not be
(Continued on lai;p five)
10 STAR! RETREAT
Republican A. P. ceased Wire!
Bh-'RLIN, Nov. 21. (By Wireless to
Sayvlile.l The capture of Craiova In
western Wallachia, by German troops
was announced by the war office in an
f ..l I u...om., .1,1 . ' n
1 Th capture by General von Falk
enhayan's forces of the town of Crai
ova apparently clinched the Austro
German hold upon a large section of
120 miles west of the capital. The
Rumanian army, retreating ln the Jinl
valley, was falling back toward this
town and was reported In the Petro
,grod official statement of Tuesday to
I have reached the region of Killiash.
have to study and that is, just what
does cultlVHtlon mean."
What the commissioners said was
fh'v biggest crowd that has attended
any of the meetings since the henrings
iw-EJin today, came from Oklahoma
New Mexico and northwest Texas. to
large wns the crowd that when the
f(0 seat in the federal court room
hud been filled and several hundred
were una hie to get m. Commissioners
Quick nnd I.oi.dell conducted an ever
flow xnectinj In unotber building.
CRAIOVA CAPTURED
KI11S FORCED
EffiP.tROR ,FR
CLOSING LONGES
FRANCIS JOSEPH LATE
EMPEROR OF AUSTRIA
k l i
If-!
' iarvy
if
i
RESER VE BOARD SA YS
NO DANGER FROM THE
EUROPEAN GOLD FLOW
Republican A. P. Leated Wire
WASHINGTON. Nov. 21. The fed
eral reserve hoard and li e federal ad
visory council' agreed at a joint con
ference today that there were no un
avoidable dangers in the continued ex
traordinary inflow of European gold In
settlement .of trade balances, but that
proper methods must be employed to
control the gold supply and to prevent
undue expansion. Close to $300,000,000
is represented in the net inward move
ment of gold this year, without any
indication of a diminishing or reversal
of this movement.
The conference closed the quarterly
meeting of the advisory council, com
posed of prominent bankers, represent
ing the various federal reserve districts.
The council recommendation to the
board included renewal of the propo
sition to authorize nationul banks in
federal reserve and central reserve cit
ies to establish branches within those
cities; encouragement of transfer to
the federal reserve banks of the money
in the vaultB of member banks; great
er caution as to protected renewal
credits and reduction of excess reserve
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BALTIMORE. Nov 21. Efforts to
effect an ufliliation between the
American Federation of labor and the
Railway1 brotherhoods, received a de
cided impetus today when the federa
tion convention here enthusiastically
received speeches by the four repre
senatives of the brotherhoods and
President Gompcrs, of the federation,
favoring such action.
Leaders of the organizations tonight
were pneparing to inaugurate a joint
fight for better working conditions,
particularly for railway workers of all
classes and against all cumpul.sory ar
bitiation measures just as though an
official affiliation had been perfected.
Both sides entertain high hope that
they will be able to gain much during
the coming session of congress and In
preventing the breaking down of pres
ent favorable la.ior laws, by presenting
a united front. They believe, too,
thut olflci.tl affiliation only awaits
certain formal steps to be taken by
the brotherhoods at their next con
vention, to be bcbl noine time next
year.
Other than to ray that they would
oppose all sorts of cumpulsory arbi
tration bills In congress, the speakers
were rather indefinite today as to
what they expected to do for the
great mass of railAuy workers. Fed
eration b-aiTs, however, raid the pri
mary object of the proposed affilia
SUCCESS MEETS
PLANS TO 'JOIN
UNIIHRS
MIS JOSEPH
a 1
UA 1 I I
- h$
V'V
I' J
-v i..i,g
by beginning at the end of this winter
to count the balances held by reserve
agents not as reserve hut as bank
balances. Both the board and council
agreed that business conditions were
excellent.
The board's official statement tonight
regarding the conference follows;
! "The federal advisory council, which
! closed its regular quarterly session here
today, devoted its attention to a survey
' of business conditions throughout the
! country, to reserve conditions in the
several districts and in this connec
' tion, to a consideration of the situa
j tion produced by the large and con
tinuing imsrts of gold.
I "The council considered means for
making effective in a "greater degree
the transfer of vault money by mem
ber banks to their respective federal
reserve banks a process rendered pos
sible by the recent amendment to the
federal reserve act. It was agreed that
this is a desirable development and
that it should be encouraged.
J "The council announced Itself as in
entire accord with the views already
(Continued on Page Three)
tion is to bring about an universal
eight hour day.
Brotherhood leaders left here after
the meeting, undetermined as to what
their net step would be. If they
sh mid decide to call a strike, should
the railroads not put the Adamson law
into effect January 1, they probably
will ask a conference with federation
officers. They also will seek confer
ence, it is believed, if the present in
junction suits of the railroads tire
successful. No conference followed
the nieting today. ' Shortly after the
speakers had addressed the convention,
all of the brotherhood representatives
left here for various cities.
William G. Lee. Warren S. Stone
an.1 L K. Shephard of the trainmen,
engineers and conductors, returned to
Washington and ". S. Garter, of the
firemen, went to New York.
Lee. who made the principal ad
dress to the convention, sought to
m;;ke it plain that the brotherhoods
were not coming to the federation to
obtain hole, (specifically for their fight
against the railroads over the Adam
soa eiabt hour day law. fie declared
that the l iotherhoods were willing to
assume all responsibility in that strug.
gf. but he held that the time had
come when it was to the interest of
all railway workers to unite for their
inntii il advantage.
Mexicans Continue To Get
Together For Bandit Hunt
I Republican A. P. Leased Wire
' DOCGLAS, Ariz.. Nov. 21. General
Arnulfn Gomez, with between 1,511(1 and
2.000 men, has been sent eastward front
(he Herniosillo district overland to
Dolores pass, the most feasible em
trance for Villa bandits, should they
attempt to invade Sonora, according to
reports received in Agua l'rieta today.
I It is rumored that Gomez" force will
T REP MOWN
AGED INARCH IEL TOR SOME
THE,
THAT HE WAS
CENSOR WTROEDSEACT
(By Republican Associated Press Leased Wire)
LONDON, Nov. 22, 3 41 a.m. Emperor Francis Joseph died last night
at 9 o'clock at Schoenbrunn castle, according to a Rcuter dispatch from
Vienna, by way of Amsterdam. t
The first intimation received here that Emperor Francis Joseph's health
was again the subject of solicitation was contained in a dispatch dated No
vember 12. emanating from a Vienna news agency, which reported that the
emperor had been suffering for some days from a sliqht catarrhal affection.
Subsequent reports from various sources, more or less conflicting, reported
that his condition was becoming worse, but none of them indicated that his
illness threatened to reach a critical state, and from Vienna came assurances
that he was still able to give audience to one or more ministers daily.
That gave some credence to the suspicion that his condition was much
oraver than the official bulletins indicated, was the report, which still lacks
official confirmation, that it had been decided to associate the heir to the
throne. Archduke Charles Francis, in the government of the country and that
he was to assume the position December 2, the sixty-eighth anniversary of
the emperor's ascension to the throne.
Archduke Charles Francis, grondnephew of Emperor Francis Joseph, be
came heir to the throne of Austria-Hungary by the assassination of Arch
duke Francis Ferdinand prior to the outbreak of the war. He has been in
command of the Austrian armies on various fronts during the past two
years.
Archduke Charles Francis was born on August 17, 18S7. His wife was
Princess Zita. of the Bourbon house of Parma. His father was the Arch
duke Otto, who was the younger brother of Francis Ferdinand.
Death Expected
LONDON, Nov. 22. Telegraphing from Amsterdam the Central News
correspondent says:
"Vienna reports that although the death of the emperor had been ex
pected, the news, which was printed in special editions of the newspapers,
made a deep impression on the public. A special cabinet meeting was held.
The heir to the throne, Archduke Charles Francis, has been for eome time
in Vienna.
"A meetinq of the Hungarian cabinet has been called at Budapest. Pre
mier Tisza will afterwards come to Vienna."
DEUTSCRLiD IS
. HOMEWARD BOUND
AFTER ICCIOEiT
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW LONDON, Conn., Nov. 21.
The German merchant submarine
I leutscbland, with a $2,Oi)0.M)il cargo
and official m::il for Emperor William
aboard, made another start for Brem
en this afternoon, her dash iast Fri
day being frustrated when she tank a
convoying tug, nece!
cesit:i
lating a return
to port for minor repairs.
Her skipper, l"aul Kwnig, changed
his tactics today, for instead of steal
ing out ot sea under cover of dark
ness as was the case la.st week, he
boldly steered down the harbor ill
broad day light without convoy. Local
mariners were surprised when h';
again elected to send his craft through.
the dangero is waters of the r..T
where the collision occured in whic'.
five of tlie tug's crew were drowned.
The tug Alert, of the T. A. Scot
Wrecking company. ub-ngent of ti e
Eastern Forwirrding company, r
m iin"d half a mile astern today. V; -ing
the Race safely, the Oeutsch!;. M
turned her nose to the east and head
ed for Nantucket shoals. The Alerl
followed for a short distance and re
turned to her pier. Captain Frederick
Hinscb of the Forwarding" company,
who was the only man saved in the
disaster last week, was on board the
Alert.
The Deutschland apparently was
ready to sail late Inst night or early
this morning, but for some unknown
reason plans were changed. Two tugs
had .''team tin nil night, ready to act
ns convoys, but they were dismissed
at 2:30 o'clock this morning.
During the afternoon there Were tin.
usual signs of activity on the state
p!er nnd on hoard the North German
Lloyd liner Willehad. the submarine's
"mother ship," indicating that the time
for departure was near.
At 2 o'clock the Alert and the fisii-
'Continued -in I'age n 'iree
EXPERTS EI PLANS TO REDUCE
H GHL1G COST ! THE EAST
Republican A. P. Leased Wire!
NEW YORK, Nov. 21. A central
market, so located that steamships
could unload directly under its roof
and with connecting spurs for rail
roads was advocated today by John J.
Dillon, commissioner of the state de
partment of foods and markets, as
the 'most practicable means of com
batting the high cost of living here.
By eliminating the excessive cost of
handling and re-handling food pro
ducts. Mr. Dillon said, it was hi
be re-enforced by a considerable body
of volunteers from the southern part
of the Mocteztima district and the
Suhnaripa district, who are mobilizing
in the towns,
No additional troops reached Agua
I'rieta today, although reports from
southern Sonor.t Indicated that the
mobilization of vailable forces for the
I movement north and east continued.
PIES
NEAR TO DEATH
The death of Francis Joseph is a re-
murkahle climax to the long list of
tragedies in the Hapsburg family a
list unparalleled in any other reigning
house in Europe. : He dies in the midst
of. the world's greatest war, w hich he
himself largely brought about by his
determination to avenge the act of as
sassination of bis heir, the ..Archduke
Francis FerOinuad, as liie retult ot an
alleged Serbian conspiracy, while on a
state visit to Bosnia on June 2S, 1M4.
Francis JoFeph tfas 86 years old nt
the time of his death. He was born
August IS, 1830. He was only 19 years
of age when he'ascended the throne of
Austria, upon the abdication of his
uncle, Ferdinand I., December 2, 1S4S,
making his active reign extend over a
period of sixty-eight years, all but the
first' twenty of which he was also
Apostle King of Hungary. It is doubt
ful that if in all history there has been
nn active, authenticated reign that was
longer. But in recorded history there
certainly has been no reign of equal
duration to that of Francis Joseph.
Louis XIV., of France, was nominally
king for seventy-two years. He act
ually occupied the thrwne for little
more than half a century. A closer
rival, and the only one of modern
times, was Queen Victoria, t ho reigned
for sixty-four years.
The aged monarch, although he had
suffered serious inroads upon his
health for many years past, was strong
enough to keep a firm grip on affairs
of state almost to the last. There were
repeated reports of a serious illness
from a bronchial affection, and fre
quently rumors of his death, which
were proven unfounded, when official
announcements were made from Vi
enna. Some of the reports asserted
that his mind had become affected
through worrV over the great war, but
Ilia truth tit lhaad M!m.-,v ii-itu ,,,t A
I mined.
j In November, 1915, on the occasion
I of a visit of Emperor William of Ger-
many to Vienna, it was rumored that
Francis Joseph was about to make a
possible move for a separate peace, but
owing to the strict censorship in Aus
tria there was no confirmation of such
a report.
The ultimatum of July 23, 1S14.
which Francrs Joseph sent to King
l'eter of Serbia, denouncing the anti
Austrian propaganda in that country
and demanding prompt punishment of
the assassins of Archduke Ferdinand,
was supposedly dictated by Francis
Joseph himself and it was this doru-
(Continued on Page Five)
I belief the prevailing prices 'or food
I'omiuuuiiies wouia 00 materially re"
dueed.
That the problem here has become
acute, was further emphasized by
Deputy" Assistant District Attorney
M.irkewltch. He Announced that hn
was preparing to submit to the grand
jurv. evidence he has collected con
cerning the increased cost of poultry.
So far as the producer is concerned.
Mr. Marke witch declared, he had been
unable to find any reasonable excuse
for fie advance. The producer's price,
for the last six months, he added, has
net ben changed, although house
wives now are paying from four to
five cenis a ixnind more for poultry.
Developments of the last few days,
it was said tonight, have aroused the
entire city Joseph Hartigan, com
missioner ff Wnorhtu and' mu,ei.wu
j announced he would meet represen
Matives of the Merchant's association,
Jthe chamber of commerce and other
j civic and commercial organizations..; r
wiiu n. icw 10 lorimuaiini some piau
whereby producers of food and other
necessaries may sell direct to the con
sumers. Elimination of the middle
man and relief of railroad freight oirr
congestion here, the commissioner as
serted, would result in an Immediate;
reduction in prices.
