COMMENCED AUGUST 8, 1837.
ST. JOHNSBURT, VERMONT, WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 22. 1916
VOL. LXXX, NO. 16 WHOLE NO. 4141.
The Berry-Ball Dry Goods Co.
Have You Taken Advantage Of
OUR THANKSGIVING SALE OF
Ladies' And Misses' Suits?
Every Suit in our stock included.
Three Lots.
All arranged in
$16.50, $21.50, $27.50 and $32.50
Dinner Ware
Let us show you a new Dinner Set for the
Annual Family Dinner Party.
Nippon China
in one of the Newest Stock Patterns, shown in
different decorations and colorings.
The Berry-Ball Dry Goods Co.
w
m
r i
Av4
.v.
V, 'I
I', 1
'J
ft
$4
Jyyl:.Pr3
ST.JOHNSBURY. VX
v ...
IT IS PROVEN
by time and experience that
banking by mail is Safe and
Convenient.
Many of our depositors have found this
modern method ta be a great saving of
time.
Your account is cordially invited.
4 Interest Paid
Interest starts each month.
-'A
i
.7,
'41
3
V
VERMONT SCHOOLS MAY GET
iSTATE ACCOUNT SYSTEM
Burlington, Nov. 21 A universal
accounting: system for all the Vermont
schools similar to the system now In
use throughout New York State was
advocated by ur. M. is. Hillegas, state
commissioner of education, on his re
cent Visit to Burlington and will prob
ably go Into effect at the beginning of
the next school year. Practically all
of the cities and towns throughout the
state use slightly different accounting
systems for their schools and these
also differ from the method of the
state board of education, so that con
fusion arises when an attempt is made
to verify reports and it is also diffi
cult to secure accurate statistics un
der the separate accounting methods.
The new system differs but slightly
from the accounting method now used
in the office of Sunerintendent Chit
tenden, and even if it is not made
state-wide will probably be used by
Mr. Chittenden next year. A univer
sal school accounting system through
ut the state would not only simplify
the work of making reports to the
state board of education, but also to
the national commissioner of educa
tion at Waakiagton.
OFFICIALi ATTENDANCE
CWedejiiaa TTant ASa Pay
Of X. E. Fruit Show held in Mont
pelier is given at 7000
An official report of the attendance
at the New England Fruit show, given
by Secretary M. B. Cummings of the
State Horticultural
tal of 7073 was present during the
three days and four evenings of the
big event. By far the great majority
ol ""a numoer were Vermonters not
far from 7000 of them but many
other states were represented also.
One man. George II. Terriii nf
risville, drove 30 miles to get to the
show. He had to push thrnnc-h
snow with a wagon and a single horse.
In order to return he was compelled
to have the animal re-shod and nhtaln
a sleigh to replace the wagon.
Hon. L. Lewis Ellsworth of w-
cester, Mass.. president" of the hnw
and F. Howard Brown of MariKn
Mass., its secretary for several years,"
were among the consDicuon fijrn-m..
present in addition to Governor aGtes,
ex-uov. btickney. etc. Members ofi
the supreme court, says Secretary
Cummings, were there and "passed
judgment upon the show." Officers
of the horticultural societies of other
states were plentifully sprinkled
among the visitors. The latter were
mostly subordinate officers of the show
as a whole and were officllally present
FRATERNAL MEETINGS
Passanapale Lodsre. No. 27. F. Jk A.' M
Regular Communciation Thursday even
fccemoer 7.
P. W. Jackson. W. M
rlD H. dollofp, Secretary.
BaavreM Royal Arch Chapter, No. 11
Stated ConTocation Friday eTening, Dec
cm OCT B.
Raymond A. Piael, B. H.P.
Fkbd G. Moon, Secretary.
Palestine Commander y. No. 5. K. T
Stated Conclave Tuesday evening, Dec-
c mocr o.
Akthub G. Spragub, Em. Commander
Bam. I. Evans, Recorder.
The Museum of Natural Science.
Open week days 9 12A.M., 1 P. M
Sundays 2.30 to S P. M.
All visitors welcomed.
St. Johnabury Athenaeum.
UBIilT BBADING BOOM ABT OiLLEll
o'clock to 9 o'clock each week day, Wed
nesday evenings excepted.
3 o'clock to 5 o'clock Sundays.
All are invited.
LOCAL NOTICES
(Notices will be Inserted In this
column in reading matter type at the
raie oi ten cents a line Tor the flrn
insertion and five cents a line for sub
sequent insertions of the sime copy.)
The ladies of the Universalist
church will hold their annual sale and
supper in the church parlors, Nov.
23 and 24. There will be tables of
food, aprons, fancy articles and home
made candies. On Thursday evening
they will serve a clam chowder sup
per, early table at 5:30. On Friday
evening an entertainment will be
given.
Save December 1st for "Daddy
Long Legs."
I have moved my office from my
house to the Merchants bank block.
Office hours 10 A. M. to 12 M., 1.30
P. M.to 4 P. M. Dr. T. R. Stiles. ,
Get a box of Almon's Cold Tablets
at Searles drug store and cure your
cold. Only 25 cents.
Fairbanks Coffee, sold by A. H.
Gleason, 73 Main street.
If you need a monument or any
lettering done in cemetery write or
can &34M. j. E. Walker.
PASSUMPSIC CONG
CLUB HOLDS MEET
Seventeenth Annual Sssion Of The
Society Met At South Congre
gational Church Tuesday With
Large Attendance
ELECT OFFICERS
After Business Meeting was held Ban
quet Followed by Speeches
Rev. C. A. Adams, Arthur
T. Stone and Rev. J. J.
Hutchinson ore
Speakers.
A. H. MIEOD DIES NATIONALGRANGE
Had For Many Years Been a Prom- Appoint Committee to Prepare Brief
inent Business Man of St. Johns- I Freeing Farmer of High Cost
bury Funeral Thursday. I of Living Blame
450 BUCKS KILLED TO DATE
Hunters Report to Game Commission
er a Week of the Open Season.
With one week of the deer season
gone, a report from the office of Fish
and Game Commissioner J. W. Tit
comb shows that 451 buck's have been
shot in the state since the opening,
Nov. 15.
The number by counties is as fol
lows: Addison 14, Bennington 38,
Caledonia 21, Chittenden 10, Essex
37, Franklin 7, Lamoille 29, Orange
30, Orleans 12, Rutland 52, Washing
ton 80, Windham 80, Windsor 41.
CHRISTMAS SHOPPLXG PLANS.
Shop Early Campaign Inaugurated
Window Trimming Contest by St.
Johnsbury Merchants Prizes.
,The retail committee of the Com
mercial club met Fridays afternoon
to perfect plans for the Christmas
shopping campaign which will (be in
augurated Thursday, Dec. 7. Espec
ial emphasis will be laid upon the
early shopping feature and the buyers
are urged to cooperate with the
merchants and shop early.
The committee votea to conduct a
contest to stimulate a greater inter
est in window display, fully realizing
that good windows not only mean
more business to the enterprising
merchants that install them, but also)
give the town a brighter and more'
metropolitan aspect Full details of
the contest will be announced later
and all local merchants will not only
be invited but urged to participate.
Every St. Johnsbury merchant will be
eligible for entry and valuable prizes
will be awarded the winners and cash
prizes to the school children for
judging the displays. The prizes will
be awarded by a competent commit
tee of outsiders and the cash prizes I
The 17th annual meeting of the
Passumpsic Congregational club met
at the South Congregational church
Tuesday afternoon, beginning at six
o'clock with a banquet and folowed
by a business meeting and lecture at
eight o'clock by Rev. H. L. Davidson
of Lisbon, N. H.
At the business meeting the follow
ing officers were elected for the en
suing year: President, F. W. Baldwin
of Barton; vice president. Judge Nel
son A. Dole of Danville; secretary and
treasurer, Miss Helen Graves of St.
Johnsbury Center.
Justice was done to the excellent
menu prepared by the ladies of the
church following which the chairs
were pushed aside and the banqueters
listened to some eycellent after-dinner
speeches. The first was by Rev. C. A.
Adams of Danville who spoke on, Why
do Canadians Make such Good Yan
kees and is there any Pull to the Old
Flag at this time.
Arthur F. Stone the next speaker
gave an interesting and entertaining
rendering of the subject, "Do the
churches need book worms or fish
worms." Rev. J. J. Hutchinson of
Lyndonville brought the post prandial
exercises to a close by answering the
question, " Can a minister run across
country and' at the same time run
across sermons."
Other commities elected for the
year were the executive committee
composed of Rev. J. J. Hutchinson
of Lyndonville; Rev. A. M. Caldwell
of St. Johnsbury Center; and Herbert
Balch of St. Johnsbury.
The question came up at the busi
ness session whether the annual meet
ing should be continued, as, until last
summer, none' had been held since
1911. The delegates voted to hold
a session each year for It was shown
there were many waiting to gain
membership in the club.
At 8 o'clock Rev. H. L. Davidson
of Libson gave an interesting talk on
the work, that has been done by the
church in his village.
St. Johnsbury lost a sterling citi- Washington, Nov. 21 The national
zen and one of its foremost business grange in' their session here today
men when Angus H. McLeod passed I nominated a committee to prepare a
away early Tuesday morning at the I brief freeing the farmer of the blame
home of his daughter, Mrs. A. L. I of the high cost of living. The com
Stevens. Although in failing health 1 mittee appointed, after a discussion
for several years, his indomitable will of the question whether "the farmers
refused to submit to bodily Infirm- are getting rich at the expense of the
ities. and it was onlv a few montha consumer," began work on the brief.
I Tho farmoro ehnivA V, r V, .
atrr. thol V. o kl. 1 . tu mcii me VUSl
I or tneir product was twice as much
uon witn tne business life of St. as a few years aeo and also chnw.rf
Johnsbury with which he had been the difficulty in obtaining market for
cioseiy menunea ror more tnan 0 their products.
years,
Angus Hector McLeod was born at
Cote St. George, Ont., Nov. 29, 1842, i
of Scotch parentage. He was edu
cated at Huntington academy, Hunt
ington, P. Q. Early left fatherless he
was obliged to earn his own living, General Ru :h C. Hawkins Offers Uni
his only capital consisting of his versity of Vermont S100.000 On
ff lit. f . 1 A I
iaufl. c-ourae. ana inausiry. As a nn. nn nni t..ii
KT7 r V ? a tofta V a At .A1 n Mfn4-l 3
mill .1 - J . 11 M
, : ' 47" ' "e l General Rush C. Hawkins of Bur-
v ; I V Iington has agreed to give $100,000
; Z.:" to tn university of Vermont on con
$100,000 FOR U.V.M.
dition that $200,000 more be raised
in some manner by the university. Mr,
Hawkins is a civil war veteran of 86
years of age. Several years ago he
gave to the university a very valuable
TTo novor r.r, rKli, V... I " " 11U"6 """
Civil war. This collection is surnassed
in this country only by one at Prince
ton. With the offer Mr. Hawkins
gives several suggestions for improve
ments. They are that a new auditor
ium be built, more room for the Bill
ings library, a larger library for the
tirompnt Tnar,, i.-f ..l "-6- mai me engineer-
department have a new building
or an addition, and that the science
which he gradually developed into the
extensive business known as the A. H.
McLeod Milling Co., managing it
most successfully until his retirement
in 1910.
served at various times as lister, vil
lage trustee, and school director. In
1880 he became a director of the First
National bank and in 1895 succeedea
the late Col. Fairbanks as president
of the institution. He held the office
until failing health compelled his re
building be enlarged or a
erected.
It seems quite probable
$200,000 can be raised.
new one
that the
ADVERTISING COMMENDED
Head of O'Keefe Advertising Agency
says Newspaper Adds Pay.
year. He had been vice president of
the Ely Hoe & Fork Co. and a direc
tor in the E. & T. Fairbanks Co.,
1909-1916. In all his business rela
tions his keen intellect, unerring judg
ment, wonderful memory and live.v
sense of humor made him a valuable
advisor.
He was a faithful member of the
South church for over 40 years, regu
larly in his pew on Sunday as long as
health permitted. He was one of the
founders of Briirhtlook hosnital nn Koston, Nov. 21 Maj. Patrick J.
was always interested in the best good 'Keefe of the O'Keefe Advertising
of the town. Never did he turn a sency delivered an interesting ad
deaf ear to a call of real need and dress to. the Pupils in salesmanship
his erect bearing and hearty greeting ana Dusmess administration at both
so familiar on the streets of this vil- Eng'ish classes of the Charlestown
lage will be missed bv a laree Mtv7 Evening High School last night on
of friends. tne growing interest in civic affairs
He married in 1867 Mary J. Roge-s and tne advantages and growth of ad-
of Trout River. N. Y.. who died in vertising.
MRS. H. B. HOWE
Wife of U. S. District Court Judge
Passes Away Sunday Afternoon
lrominent in Town Life.
Mrs. Maybelle Jane Howe, age 88,
wife of Judge Harland B. Howe of the
United States district court for Ver
mont, passed away at her home at
2:30 o'clock Sunday afternoon, after
an illness of about two weeks.
Mrs. Howe was prominent In all
the progressive movements and in the
social life of St. Johnsbury, and was
a woman who won and held a host
of friends by her genial ways and
strength of character. She was keen
ly interested in and a generous sup
porter of every worthy cause, and in
her home life was ideal. Judge Howe
and family have the sincere sympathy
of the community.
Maybelle Jane Keisey (Tlowe) was
born In Danville, Oct. 8, 1878. the
daughter of Harry and Flora Keisey.
For many years she was a successful
teacher in her native state. On May
3, 1900, she was united in marriage to
Judge Harland B. Howe, and to them
were born four daughters, Josephine
E., Barbara I., Matalda A., and Har
riet B. Howe.
She was a member of the St. Johns
bury Woman's club and of the Grace
Methodist Episcopal church, in which
organization she was an ftntii
worker.
She leaves besides her husband and
four daughters, four sisters. Mrs.
Frank Bugbee of Springfield, Mass.,
Mrs. George Giffln and Mrs. Mv:-tle
Clark of Lyndonville, and Mrs. Wal
ter Seavey of Pinepoint, Me.
ltiring
FUNERAL OF MRS. HOWE
Large Xumlxjr Attend Men ProihJn-
ent in State Law Present.
1909 after -42 years of ideal weddtd
life. Their three children are
Charles H. of Detroit, Mich., Mrs. J.
He said it is cheaper to advertise
one page in a newspaper than to send
post cards to purchasers when the
$276,779.63 FOR SCHOOLS.
All But Three Towns of Vermont
Represented In . the Division of
This Sum.
All but three towns in the state
will share in the "balance of the con
solidated school fund," as the laws
of 1915 term it. All but these have
spent at least $200 on their rural
schools.
Dr. Milo B. Hillegas. state commis
sioner of education, has given out a
statement in which he said: "The
commissioner is engaged in issuing
me warrants to the state treasurer
for the payment of the consolidated
school fund of the various towns. All
but three towns in the state share in
this fund. Apart from the amounts
appropriated for transportation and
the employment of trained teachers,
advanced instruction and vocational
courses, the sum of $91,854.43 is to
be distributed.
H. Brooks and Mrs. A. L. Stevens of cost of the cards and clerk hire is
this place. He also leaves five grand- taken Into consideration, because the
children, one sister, Mrs. James Hor- newspaper reaches such a large num-
ton of Montreal, and two nephews. ber oI People- He stated that suc-
Since the death of his wif MrJ ce&5,lul Business concerns are setting
McLeod has made his home with Mr aside a certain sum from their net
and Mrs. A. L. Stevens on, Main street, Drofits for advertising in newspapers
wnose devoted care has made his in- ,u traue papers.
valid years happy and contented. ln relation to interest in civic af-
The funeral service will be held lairs JvlaJ- u -Keefe said in part:
Thursday afternoon at 2 o'clock from Within the past few years there
109 Main street. has been developed in this country a
new and growing interest in civic af
fairs. Business men ar. hep-innimr
- I. -T
"Twenty-four thousand eieht hnn-
will be given to those school children ea and nlnety-six dollars and sixty
.woe juugiueiu as 10 tne Drizett
agrees witn tne special committee o
judges. Three complete scholarshiD
in the International Correspondence
scnoois of Scranton, Pa., valued at
rrom $500 to $800, will be given to
me successiui contestants. The
prizes will be of great value to the
winners as they include a set of the
famous I. C. S. reference library that
nave Deen successfully used by thous
ands or merchants all over the United
states,
The merchants who do not win will
oenent in two ways. First, in the in
creased business during and after the
contest; second, in a greater annr-
ciauon or window decoration.
R. K. C. CLASS ENTERTAIXED
Academy Girls Hold Candy Pull Oth
er St. J. A. Students Present.
xne acaaemy girls of the North
Congregational Sunday school royally
emerutmea me . k. .c. class and a
iew otner academy students at a can
dy pull Friday evening in the North
cnurcn. ir "the proof of the nuinc
is in the eating" the young ladies may
well congratulate themselves as cnnlra
judging by the manner in which the
many candies were received. The mas
culine guests enjoyed the DartlciDation
in different athletics feats and stunts
wnich were followed by a few guessine
contests. The R. K. Cs. miarter ren
dered a selection and the gathering
broke up with several songs by the
wnoie company.
LOSES THUMB OX SAW
Workman Employed at the Fairbanks
Scale Factory Meets With Acicdent
James Sanborn, while at work on a
three cents has been apportioned to
the various towns for assisting in the
cost of repairs and new buildings.
Each town receives one-half of the
amount expended for these purposes,
between the sums of $200 and $800.
We won't help any town that has
spent less than $200 on buildings and
repairs.
"Sixty-seven thousand one hundred
and eighty dollars and twenty centes
was appropriated to the various towns
spending on the average for the past
four years sixty per cent or more of
tne grand list for current expenses
"The towns will receive a total of
;48.9.63 from the state for thfi
school year ending June, 1916. The
corresponding total in the previous
year was $268,057.03.
The delay in the apportionm ent rf
the fund balance due the towns ha
arisen from the necessity of first ob
taining the exact and complete re
turns of every town in the state in the
matter of its expenditures. A SDeclal
committee or the board of education
nas nnished most of the preliminaries
required, the necessary warrants ar
now being made out on the state
treasurer, and the various sums to h
paid should begin to go out the first
ining next veek.
The balance of the consolidate,-.
fund is not only far greater than the
Doara nad Itself supposed wmiM o
the case, but it Is larger than the last
legislature presumed cwould obtain
The legislature's advance estimate
was not within $33,000 of the actual
amount of the fund.
Bdstrrets mrr hat they impede the
ports further expansion in practically ?aVv t i t ? community through
all lines of manufacture. The cold Lf hf interest f by the project or
weather of the week together with berfl t tST ' mem'
good sleishine- have heen f,rfnr0 bers ot the community, will suffer the
fne- to ti,,,i-- 71 consequences,
sonable goods. Granite monumental LaJiffJ10 t enterprise which
men renort nrH,. -, manifest themselves in participation
but predict and anticioate n community affairs react upon th
business for the coming sni-in, no.i Business man and benefit him. Hun
r-tt . " r dreds of
iiuaiues nave enjoyea a good
Advertised Letters.
Letters advertised for the week
ending Nov. 18 are: Ladies. Mrs R
D. Blodgett, Mrs. IL J. Ben way, Miss
business and report large shiDments
of rough stock. The demand for gran
ite for building purposes is still slow.
Marble is reported as moving reason
ably well and there is a good demand
for slate for all purposes. Lumber is
in demand. There has been a larger
amount of hard wood utilized this
year than that reported previously.
Robbin manufacturers report a large
volume of business, one new firm in
this line is to commence business
ngnt away, in this state. Large or
J
uers nave Deen placed for turned
wood novelties. Organ manufactur
ers report a liberal increase in the
aemand ror their production and man
ufacturers of .piano backs and sound
ing boards are operating full force
and overtime in order' to take care
of orders in anything like reasonable
time. The furniture manufacturers
also are behind in shipments. The de
mand for sash and blind is reported
as only fair. The snow fall of the
eariy part of the week was general
from the central portion of the state
and northward. South of this line
out lime snow fell. Farmers are find
ing a ready sale for all kinds of pro
duce and prices received are of the
highest on record. While commodity
prices will be a factor the outlook for
holiday trade warrants the statement
that there will be liberal buying. Dai
ry products are in good demand and
heavy shipments noted. There is a
larger demand for poultry, turkeys
and similar products beyond ability
to supply. Collections vary from fair
to slow but there is noted a small im
provement. The week's failures num
berer two as compared with eight for
the same period last year. The amount
of money involved was 36 percent less
than a year ago.
communities throughout the
( country are dragging along, unsight
ly in appearance and unbusiness-like
in methods, simply because thev nrr
the stimulus and entpmriso tv
would result from the business men
taking a hand in public affairs.
ACADEMY N'OTES
Seniors to Debate on W ar Quest ion
uasketball is Talked.
The funeral of Mrs. Harland B.
Howe was held from her late home
on Pearl street Tuesday afternoon
at two o'clock. Rev. George A. Mar
tin pastor of Grace Methodist church
officiated.
A large attendance of friends from
n and out of town testified to the es-
teme in which Mrs. Howe was held,
and the abundance of beautiful flow
ers and floral pieces held a further
tribute to the fine character of the
deceased.
The Caledonia county bar associa
tion met, and marched to the house
n a body, and the Grace Unity club
of the M. E. Church also attended.
Many prominent state officials were
present as were also many members
of the bar throughout the state.
The interment was in the cemetery
at St. Johnsbury Center and the bear
ers were: L. N.iSmythe, Arthur 11.
Gleason, George Caldbeck, James Im
pey, and Joseph Fairbanks of St.
Johnsbury and A. B. Pratt of Lyndon.
Among those present from out of
town were:
William Howe, Fitch burg, Mass.;
Hon. Frederick S. Piatt, of Rutland;
Arthur P. Carpenter of Brattleboro;
I'. M. Meldon ot Rutland; Miss Oliva
Howe, Manchester, N. li.; Mrs. Ag
nes Hawkins, Concord, N. 11.; Mrs.
Belle Graves, and Mrs. Earl Fletcher
of Lyndonville; Hon. Harry B. Amey, ,
Island Pond; Hon. and Mrs. Herbert
C. Comings of Richford; Hon. Mar
tin A. Brown, Boston; Hon. Vernon
A. Bullard, J. J. Enright. and Thom
as Reeves, Esq., of Burlington; Hon.
Mathew G. Leary and Thomas H.
Browne, Esq., Rutland; Hon. James
Ea Kennedy of Williston; Martin 11.
Gibson, East Ryegate; Hon. Walter
A. Dutton, Hard wick; Hon. Frank C.
Williams, Newport; Hon. E. A. Cook,
N. A. Norton and Hon. Joseph T.
Gleason of Lyndonville; Asa Wesson
and Charles Dole of Danville; and 11.
M. Osgood and Mr. and Mrs. Elisha
Bigelow and John L. Norn. of Lyn
donville; Mrs. Porter H. Dale, Island
Pond; Mrs. Frank A. Bugbee, Spring
field, Mass.; Mrs. G. L. Giffin, Lyn
donville; Mrs. Walter Seavey, Pine
Point, Me.; and Mr. and Mrs. Harvey
Keisey of Lyndon.
Debaters chosen from among the
seniors will debate, Tuesday Nov. 28
on, Resolved: "Germany is responsi
ble for the present war." Affirma
tive speakers will be Miss Lillian Mar
owitz, Norman Lowe and Charles
Branch; negative, Miss Ruth Bigelow,
wiuiam junis and Donald McWain.
Clinton Hawley, formerly of Hart
ford High School, enrolled Monday as
a junior.
Joseph G. Purcell has returned to
school after spending a few days at
nis nome in Mechanicsville, N. Y.
Dr. Benedict gave the basketball
boys a short talk Tuesday morning af
ter chapel. Mr. Stradley who will act
as coach called a short meeting at 4
p.m. to which a larsre nnmhpr r. i
sponded. The practices will begin
soon and the whole school is unusally
optimistic in looking forward to the
season.
Vermont Official Returns
Montpelier, Nov. 22 Charles Evans
Hughes' plurality over President Wil
son was 17,542 according to official
figures made public last night. The
vote as counted stood as follows:
Hughes, 40,250; Wilson, 22,708;
Hanly, prohlb., 709; Benson, soc., 79 8.
sawing machine in the pattern room Lillie C Emery Mrs- Lottie Went-
or the Fairbanks shops Friday after-1 worin gentlemen, u. u. Chase, Geo.
noon, had the misfortune to cut off R" Bray
the thumb of his right hand.
"Old Maids" Play Cards.
The Old Maids Whist club held
their first party of the season Friday
evening at the home of Miss Hazel
Shaw, South Main street. The clu
is composed of 12 young ladies.
Use the American Tablet
Fish and Game Lea en e Meetins-.
Lyndonville, Nov. 21 The annual
meeting of the Vermont Fish and
Game League is hereby called to be
neia at tne Pavilion Hotel, Montpelier,
rnuay, isov. z, at 8 o'clock p.m. It
is expected that this meeting will be
adjourned to a later date to be held
in connection with a Sportsmen's con
vention or some special function.
Suspend
Criticism
You are not to blame for the
present Coal situation, neither are
we. We can work the thing out
together on a Golden Rule basis.
Criticism won't help a bit.
Grain Affects Egg Prices
Boston, Nov. 21 Marketmen here
say that the high cost of grain is an
Important factor in the advancing
prices of eggs; farmers throughout
the country, they declare, are dispos
irg of their poultry rather than sus
tain a loss through the winter months
when the hens do very little laying.
Bpi
