Wl '!? Py1' "'.-'fi f '&' fV
7s
1HE HARTFOkD HERALD.
Subscription $1 Per Year, in Advance. "I Cw, th Bwaid tf oj wirM, iu im of in latfew taring i m? fat" 41; Kinds Job Printing Neatly Executed,
T5EA. .
HARTFORD, KY WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1916.
NO. 47
MINT MEN
; FOR PROHIBITION
And Will Seek State-Wide
Legislation.
MS FOR EARLY CAMPAIGN
f Those Back Of The Movement
Are Leading Democrats
01 Kentucky.
X'l TO THE 1018 LEGISLATURE
Louisville, Ky., Nov. 17. Tho
formation of an organization, within
the Democratic party In Kentucky,
the object of which will he to bring
about action by tjhe next regular
(session 'of the General Assembly, at
the Meeting In January, 1818, sub
mitting to the-people an amendment
to the State Constitution for State
wide prohibition, was set on foot In
'Louisville yesterday at a small gath
ering embracing some of the best
iknown men of tho Sta'tey They form
but tho nucleus of a body that will
be made up of men of their stand
ing and character 'In every county,
.scores of whom are already in touch
with the organizers., The plans of
campaign that were laid are prob
ably the most thorough yet mapped
out in such a ,fight in Kentucky.
The head of the now organization
Is Dr. A., J. Alexander, of Woodford
county, widely known philanthropist
and agrlpulturist, who assumes the
chairmanship, land Col. P. H. Calla
han, of Louisville, the well known
business man and student of public
questions. "Associated with them on
the executive committee are former
Wef-Justicc J.mP. Hobson, of
Frankfort; Dr. M. B, Adams, "of
peorgetown; Dr. A. Gatllff. of Will
iamsburg; theHon. JJ'GulhrleCoke,
of Logan county; fqrmer Circuit
Judge James M. Benton, of Clark
county; Henry M. Johnson, of Louis
ville, andyBen B. Cozlne .of Shelby
county.
Permanent headquarters of the
onVwiizatlon will be opened almost
Immediately. The 'campaign will be
vigorously conducted In every coun
ty in ,theStato in which there 13 the
'slightest prospect .of naming a Dent
ocraflfi member of tho House Of Rep
resentatives, and In every district
where a State Senator Is to be chos
en. An executive committee will be
named in each county and district,
made up of men of the standing nnd
typo of tho Sthte. Committee, and
"through these county committees tho
campaign will bo carried Into each
precinct and to every Democratic
"voter.
The campaign probably will be
opened with a big "demonstration at
bomo point In Kentucky, at which
the speakers will be men of national
as well as State prominence, and the
opening will be' followed up by
meetings' In the various districts and
counties. Special attention will bo
paid to the counties composing State
Senatorial districts in which a Sen
ntor Is to he chosen, as a failure In
the uppor branch of the Legislature
could nullify any action that might
bo taken bya iaJrlty of tho lower
House. The fight will start' in earn
est about, tho first of tho year, glv
lng seven months to organize for tho
August primary election. I $250,000 for the erection of n sau-
Tho men who, have set on foot this atorium In or near tho city of Louls
movomont to settle tho Question of , vllle. The Long Run Association,
prohibition in Kentucky beUevo that ( t0 which Louisville belongs, has
their plan Will bo effective, more so pledged to raise ?3G,000 of the
than if fostered only by a faction of ( amount hero in the city. Half of
tho Democratic party, as they plan ho total amouut of $250,000 will
to bring together with them repre-t0o ra8ed at once. The executive
eentatlves. of tho great business in-, committee, upon tho pledging of this
terestg and people of all glasses who , city's contribution of $35,)00 will
are working for Improvements In the (iien navo complete charge; of the
moral and social condition or tno
State,
Dr, Alexander, head of the move-j
mott, U .one oi tno uesi Known men
IW"
iPvPl- WKrusa section of Ken-
-W.J
7tky, He 13 at the head of; Wood-
imrn Ursa, near. Spring 8tatlon, and
bis mu prominent (or, a numuqr oi sary omrer oi me soumern uopari- 10 cuu mm inuuu. io nus mj.u
years' ip,' improving tho methods of ment for tho Thanksgiving dinner, with a loyalty stronger than that of
agriculture and la 'goo4 rpads. He of the soldiers along the bordor and any soldier to his flag; he was
is a graduate-of Prfawto'Unlversl- Gen. Peoahlug's cqlumu lntfeEleo. I wholo-hoartcd, unselfish and depu
ty, having gone ;&rvh "that lnsti- A War DepartmonaunoHBeeent dablo. He had fixed opinions nut!
tutlon when PrMi4at Woodrow to-day said every precaution ,"'pro- he spoke, them with unmlstRknb.o
Wilson was at?JH 1wmI, and Is an vide the troops wit!) flttUifrif east ( clearness. Through many years h'u
intimate friend - (tstb. President, Thanksgiving and Christuiai'' wa ' unfaltering devoijon to the public
who has vlslt4;W'at.Woodburn.-being made and not a man', among I good and to the hlgliost idoah of
Dr. Alexander WMt'oMea medical the militia and regular troopa would. Kntucky life and chnracter hav
nlsajoaary ln Kw. retHrnlss to be unprovided, found expression through tho col-
. , . i ' -
Kentucky- upon tho death of his
father several years ago. '
Col. Callahan, who is vice chair
man of tho organization, Is presi
dent of tho People's Forum In Louis
ville, and takes a deep Interest In
every movement having for its pur
pose the advancement of tho city
and State, He was a member of the
State Democratic campaign commlt
teo in 1911, and knows tho game of
politics. N
Former Chief Justice J. P. Hob
son, of Frankfort, is one of tho lead
ing members of the bar In Kentucky
nnd ha3 always taken a lively Inter
est in the liquor question and the
solving of it.
Dr. A. Oatliff, of Williamsburg, a
member of tho executive committee,
Is 'a coal operator in Eastern Ken
tucky and the owner bf extensive
coal lands In thati section of the
State. He Is one of tho leading
Buptlsts In Kentucky, having chdowv
ed a Baptist college In hl3 home
town.
Dr. 51. B. Adams, of Georgetown,
Is the president of Georgetown col
lege, and a leading Baptist. He' was
for several years at the head of tho
Anti-Saloon league In Kentucky,
wntching the legislative fights at the
State capltol for that organisation,
and doubtless will takoTi prominent
part In tho campaign thnt Is to be
waged.
Judge James m. Benton, of Win
chester, made a reputation for him
self as Circuit Judge In the enforce
ment of the law, and has stood out
for a number of years on the antl
llquor side.
Mr. B. B. Cozlne, of Shelbyvllle,
Is the editor of the Shelby News, one
of the ablest and most fearless Dem
ocratic county newspapers In Ken
tucky. Mr. Henry M. Johnson, of this
city, who Is associated' fn the move
ment, Is a lawyer and president of
the Men's Federation of Louisville,
the work of which has recently at
tracted so much attention.
THE OHIO REPUBLICANS
SPENT" K72 THOUSAND
ColunibUs,. O., Nov.
17. To carry
on the most disastrous campaign in
tho history cf the Republican party
In Ohio excepting, of course, the
year 1912, which Is commonly elim
inated from calculations it cost tho
State Capalgn Committee the unpre
cedented sum "of $372,331.98, ac
cording to Chairman Charles 5. Hat
field's report. filed with the Secre
tary of State to-night.' Tho g. o. p
general staff admits It spent almost
seven times as much as tho Demo
crats admit they spent. The figures
plainly "show why the Democratic
committee devoted it3 closing weeks
In talking about the enormous fund
of tho opposition.
In tho State campaign the' com
mittees disbursed nearly half a mil
lion dollars. Taking several factors
Into the equation. It Is a falriis
sumption that this represented only
a small part t what was laid out in
tho campaign. It would not bo for
afield If theiguess was hazarded that
the campaign of all candidates,
which tormented tho voters for
many weary wo?ks, cost " between
three and four million dollars. At
that rate i,t. probably mcan3 thea
was $3 spent for every ballot that
dropped into the boxes, to cay noth
ing of tlmo consumed. Cincinnati
Enquirer.
To IluWd Big Sanatorium.
Ltfulsvllle, Ky., Nov. 10. Mem
bers of, tho General Association of
Baptists Hi Kentucky, in session at
tho Walnut Street Baptist church.
this morning passed a motion to raise
proceedings.
Turkeys For Soldier Uoya.
Washlnuton. Noy. 16. Turkeys
and "trimmings" for 150,P0O men,
.. . t. .
,ara being bought by the War De-1
'partment through tho chief commts-
EDITOR OF HERALD
PASSES AWAY
Heber Matthews Succumbs After Illness of
Eighteen Days.
Mr. Heber Matthews, editor of the
t
Hartford Herald, died at his home
on Union street last Thursday morn
ing at eleven forty-five o'clock, after
an illness of eighteen days. Ho was
first stricken the thirtieth,, of Octo-
ber, Just after "reaching The Herald
office, with a sudden and violent at-1
iacK or p3uuo-angina,pectorls, n
deadly heart disease. Dr. Ford was
hastily summoned and succeeded in
allaying to some extent tho attack,
but It was about seven hours before
tho stricken editor was able to be
removed to his home.
He seemed to steadily regain his
strength and was so far Improved
by the following Sunday that he
walked down town for a few min
utes. Sunday night he grew worse
and suffered considerably from car
I'lac asthma which Increased dally
until Friday, when ho again seemed
to rally, but was slightly worse Fri
day night. From this time he first
appeared to grow better then worse,
until Tuesday night he seemed dc-
cldedly Improved and sat up In bed
and talked cheerfully with his fam
ily, who had hurried to his bedside.
Wednesday he seemed to continue
better and his family
and friends,
begai:
ly he optimistic for his re-!
covery. Thursday movnlng he was union was blessed by the birth of
not quite so well but no decided re-J three children, Mr. Victor Matthews,
verse wss apparent. He, however, of Houston, Texas, Mrs. . Boy A.
told his wife that he was "nigh Sommers, of Washington, D. C. r.nd
unto death" and asked that his phy- Elizabeth Matthews, who died 1n iu
slclan, who had only left some thlr-j fancy. Mr. Matthews -Is purvlved,
ty minutes before be recalled, which by his wife and two children.
was done. From thljj'-tllne-he sank
rr.pl(ilyx and In less than two hours,
had passed away. Mr. Matthews
himself gave tile Impression from
the first . that he considered his
chancoB for recovery small, but said
little and soemed cheerful even to ,
the 'last, desiring to live, but pre-(He had long been a faithful mom
pared to die. I ber of the Methodist church and dl
Mr. Matthews was born at New-, reeled that the. service be conducted
burg, Ind., May 23, 1SC3, being 53 by his pastor In his church. After
years
old . at the dato of hi
death.
Ho was tho son o!
Aaron and Elizabeth (Calloway)
Matthews, both of whom pre
ceded hlin to the grave by 21 and
19 ypara respectively. After receiv
ing a common school education he
began hl3 newspaper career at the
age of 10 oa the Madlsonvlllo Hust
ler. He woiked on newspapers in
Greenville, Princdton, Hopkinsvllle
and Leltchflcld before finally begin
ning lls work on 'the Hartford Her
ald, as foreman, iu 1S84. In 1805
he became editor en The Herald and
llEUEK MATTHEWS.
When the world makes up Its es
timate of bravo men or useful men,
It often underestimates or overlooks
tho real qualities of life and charac
ter west needed iu this peaceful
land. For the truly courageous
man,' tho really useful and efficient
man, Is he who, with the beginning
of each day, bravely takes up the
battles and the burdens of that day
and goes forward to meet his, duties
and responsibilities with clear head
and strong heart. Wltiiout the blare
of trumpets or the throb of drura3
such a man goes unfalteringly into
tho conflict of mastering tho reals
tent forces around and within him
self and of winning those battles the
glory and reward of which are not
promotion or any of.tho pomp or cir
cumstance of war, but nro tho np
proval of a conscience void of of
ten so and tho knowledge of each
duty woll and faithfully duno from I
day to day.
Such a man was George Heber
Matthews, who, during all the yean
of his maturity dovoted his life and
talents to tho earnest tnsk of mak-
lng tno worm n llttlo cleaner nnd a
.. . .....
llttlo better and to helping, wiiero
possible, each man so fortunate ns
W
. . . . l
x WVWrjT
Jm$Lr
ably filled
!iat poiltlon (until Jih;
death.
He married Miss Futura Smith,
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. T. M.
Smith, of Hartford. The ceremony
was performed in the Old Hartford
House hotel October 13, 1S87. This
The funeral Services were con
ducted by Rev. I). W. Napier in the
Methodist church Siturd.iy morning
at 10 o'clock. Tho text was tho
17th
Psalm and loth verse and was
, selected
by Mr. Matthews and read
from his own Bible at his request.
this last and Impresbivo tribute the
remains were Interred iu Oakwoort
cemetery by the side of his infant
daughter and mother.
Mr. Matthews was a member cf
the local Maccabee .Lodge of which
he was Lieutenant Command r. He
was also a member of the Interna-1
tional Typographical Union, and had ,
served several years ns secretary to
the Ohio County Democratic Execu
tive Committee.
Mr. Mathews war. a good citizen
and will bo greatly mlsaad In Hart
ford and Ohio county.'
unins of the Hartford Herald then
as always a clean and foicetul news
paper. '
neucrtMattlicw3 was a clirlstlau
gentleman and he was a skillful and
useful member of tho great nowspa
per fraternity to which ho so com
pletely gavo himself. Above all,
this man was a friend whoso loyalty
was never doubted, and whoso un
selfish Interest might, always be re
lied upon,. Ho did not seek the trlf-
ling tribute so often loved by monwc a nw uoing puurisiteti
In public place: ho was entirely t throughout tho dirk tobacco produc
content to meet his task and do his , !"B district of Tenncsseo and Ken
slmplo duty through each day to hls,tucky. Felix G. Ewlug.'of Glenravon,
friends, his country and his Ood. j Tenn.. president nnd general mnrut.
We who know him best loved him , Ser. of tho Planters' Protective Asso-
and will mlsa him most. Pence to.ciation, annouces tnat tne campaign
his gentle spirit. II. D. R. for membership made by the organ-
Owensboro, Ky., Nov, 18, 101C.
Frost Destruction Very Grcnt.
Hood River. Oro.. Nov. 1C Based,
on reports from all apple districts ,
of tno Northwest sales agency ol!l-,8
clals hero to-day estimated the ag
gregate losses to the applo Industry
by the cold wavo which has prev
vulled for nearly a week past at $1,
500.000. The frost, It was said, had
made unfit for shipment approxi
mately 1,750,000 boxes of apples In
tho four States of Oregon, Washing
ton, Idaho and Montana.
May Have To Woik Or Night. !
Sacramento, Cal Nov. ID. Rr-i
turns from forty-two of California's
fifty-eight counties have been of"-
daily canvassed to-day by tho Soc-i
retary of Stato without departure! '
from the unofficial filiations of
tho same' district. A3 the staluti r.-
quires the completion of tho canvass ,
by November 27, and as the misslnr
counties Include tho largest 'contort
of population, the statisticians face
the probability .of working night
and day during tho latter part of
this week.
MOltlllS WIUSON FILES
PETITION IN HANKltUPTCV
Morris Wilson, of 4618 Euclid
avenue, listed liabilities of $3G,22
in a voluntary petition in bankrupt
cy filed yesterday In the offlco of the
clerk of tho United Stutcs District
Pnilrf Ml WHann wlin t anitni
of tho Louisville Clothing Company,
has no assets otlior than personal
apparel and household goods, claim
ed exempt.
His Indebtedness Is reprtsjr.ted
by fifty-one notes held ag-ilnst him
as indorser, creditors being listed
from many places In Kentucky, In
diana and Tennessee. His bankrupt
cy petition Is the outgrowth of the
failure of the Big Sandy Telephone
& Telegraph Company. Courier
Journal. Escaped From .lull.
Last Sunday evening about six '
o'clock Herbert Midkllf started no
Into the Jail to take the prisoners
supper and when he turned tho bolt
Marslial
il ' Flnley
that fastens tho outer door,
Nail, Tom Cralian. Alfred Flnley
and Wade Itaymer, who Had pried
tho cell door open and come down
it of the stairway, lunged
, ., , ,.
e door, throwing It opsn
to the foot
against th
and Marshal Nail followed by tl'
other three made n break for liber
ty. Herbert MIdklff caught Nail
who succeeded In getting away. He
next caught Crahan and they scuffled
out ir.lo tho street wncn the n'arm
was given. Mr. Kownn Holbrook
and s-lp Harold were tl.i- first ;o an
swer, when Crahan wns soon sub
dued and returned to Jail. The oth
er two, Flnloy and Kaymer, of their
own accord, went back and were
found in the cell when Crahan war
returned.
Charlie Burton and John V.'or.d
never left the cell. As socn'ifa' pos
sible Herbert and others who had
assembled. pursued Nail down
Washington street and across the
Mcllcnry meadow, but It was so
dark and Nail had so much the start
he succeeded In mnklng his escape.
Nail was under Indictment for
murdering a negro woman in Haytl
several months ago. The nlann svas
spread by 'phone to different yoInt3,
bllt b'
Leiuled
far he bus ;i H toon 'Pl'i'e-'
Eaily Suit? Kxpcrtrd. , Franco w?re called into confeiencJ
There Is every indication now thit and assurance given by the Gorman
the board of directors of the Farm- that nn further deportations would
era Co-operative Association will be made. The case of the Belgians
make a sale of the pooled crop with- Is considered identical in principle.
In a short time after the board n-l Reports from Rome that the Unit
convenes next Wednesday, having ed States has Joined or will Join th
taken a recess Friday until that i Vatican, Spain or the Nelhorlnud In
time. . .1 Joint protest are declared untrue.
, In this quest'on as in the mn-jy oth-
In speaking of n prospcctlvo t'lle ers that have arisen during tho w.ir
this week President Ford 3aid Sat- the United States will act Independ
urday: "I feel more, encouraged to- ently.
day than at any time slnc2 the caai-j The deportations nre regarded by
pies were ready for Inspection. I sonio officials here as an, attempt to
believe that v,o are going to make release German workors for the fir
ono of the tejt sales evsr made by '"g Hnp by replacing them with Bel-
jany organkali
' when his Is d
lion in this district and
ono, the future success
of the Farmers' Co-operative Asso-
elation Is absolutely certain." Ow
ensboro Inquirer.
Association Dlsbaml.s,
Hopkinsvllle, Ky., Nov. IS. In
a four coliunn newspaper article
(nnilmi .liaafm 1 ll 1 T I.Mr. ntln.l
izatlon during 19 1C has failed to
I, ''"'. , " ",
85,000 ceres pledged, and that the
tfili iriA ftnrAMtliAdl ml it littli iti at
farmers' organization which has
I'layed such an Iniportnut part In the
i luoacco since ivvt nas nnai-
ly nnd
entirely retired from busl-
ness.
Two Houses Hum.
Central City, Ky., Nov. 10. Two
houses bolonglug to the E. E. Greg
ory estate wore destroyed by fire of
unknown origin nt noon to-day.
A play will bo given for Goshen ,
school, Saturday night,. Nov. 25th
Title of play. "All a Mistake." A
farce 'comedy in three nct,i. Tl'V.e
twoliours. ROY II. FOREMAN,
Teachsr.
., " ",r
, ?hQ ? d,. ar? free from ,aX ,"
tM UnltdJlngdonu
Ono ton of whale blubber will
yield 200 gallons of oil.
0. 5. ACTS IN
BELGIAN CASE
Charge At Berlin to Take
up Matter.
OF DEPORTATIONS WHICH IE
Held To Be In Violation of All
The Assurances From
Holhvcg.
i:Kn:n c.v the opinion iikhr
Washington, Nov. 10. Deporta
tion of Belgian civilians into tier
many for forced labor has reached
such seiious proportions that Amer-
I lean Charge Grew at Berlin has been
Instructed by the State Dopartment
in il.- flirt ,....
I ... "T """""' i' veraonauy
with Chancellor von Bethmann-Holl-
wegg. Tlie charge was requo3tod to
' Sa' lhat SUch (Icl'ortatIo"s could not
' lUt haVe a R10St unfortunatt effect
,.,, ....ip.r u" "e"' opinion, particularly in
'." .,I;I.,tho l'nlte'1 st!". hlr!i has thj
J,0", n v 1 "T, C,V"lan
, ulation very much at heart.
Thft ,' . If .,
to-day, grew out of a long report
from Charge Grew in which he stat
ed that ho had discussed the situa
tion Informally and unofficially with
Under Secretary of Foreign Affairs
Zlnimermanii. The latter admitted
that a definite policy had been
adopted to enforce the labor of Bel
gians in cases where they would not
work voluntarily, on the ground
that so many refused to work as to
make the strain on public charity
intolerable.
The deportations are vlewvd here
not only as a violat'on of interna
tional law, but, iu a degree as a vio
lation of Germany's assurances to
Ambassador Gerard la3t June which,
though relating to tho 20,000
French women and girls deported
from Lille, Koubalx and Touroolng,
are felt to bo applicable to; the Bel
gian situation. At that time, when
Ambassador Gerard had gone to
general headquarters In France to
discuss the vtMck on the Sussex
, with KuiPeror William all the Amer
ican rellf workers In Northern
gians. More than any ether ono
thing this Is expected to increase the
bitterness of tho Allies toward Ger-
many and their desire for peace
through a crushing victory. For
eign Minister Beyens and Cardinal
Mercler. of Belgium, have Issued
public appeals to the neutral nations
to effect a cessation of the deporta
tions. Englnnd al30 la deevly con
cerned. Reports as to the execution of th,?
deportations vary In detail, biit not
In principle. Those who go to Ger
many voluntarily are mado to sign
a Bonerai free.wiu contract under
whIch t, are nssured ood fu0(,
salary, guarantee of caro for their
families aud freedom of correspond.
enco w,th thom. Thos(1 ,., t
.'. salll , ho pnpppm, llorw
possible through Imprisonment. If
thts is unsuccessful In securing sig
nature tho labor is compulsory at 30
pfennigs a day without provision of
families or permission to correspond,
systematic form when on October 10
tho Gorman Governor General was
"ported to havo requested the pres-
,dcnts of t,ie Somites Nationals de
Secours, under penalty of lmprlsou-
ment., to furnish lists of nil llelglnni
receiving aid. Many of tho presi
dents refused and were at once put
In jail. On tho basis of the lists
that were obtained, however, drafts
we begun nt once. No accurate In
formation has been received either
as to how' many have been deported
or where. The work to which they
have been sent is designated as "In-
L-dustrlal."
i .-.
