I r Way's Metal Prices jT L . fl jv "f Vf-WVVf vX' P-M. OTY EDITION I i I
1 12.625; copper, $32.50, $33.50, second J 7 ulcatuco nfah- Tnir,ht Fair- '
quarter, $31.00 to $33.00. ff WEATHER Utah: Tonight Fair; lH
K iff - ... Thursday and Slightly Warmer. jH
I ' FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. -
II Forty-5ixth Vr-No. 290. Price Five Cent. QGDEN CITY, UTAH, WEDNESDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 22, 1916. Entered a. Second-Clai. Matter at th e Po.tofflce, Ogdan, Utah, WM
I British Hospital Ship, Britannic, I I
1 Torpedoed and Sunk in Aegean Sea
! ! OEEP EMOTION IN VIENNA
i CAUSED BY THE OEATH OF
! EMPEROR FRANCIS JOSEPH
I
I Special Editions Throughout Europe Announce
1 Passing of Aged Ruler Who Has Worn
j Double Crown for Sixty-eight Years.
: i
!j London, Nov. 22, 11:35 a. ra. "The
i death of Emperor Francis Joseph has
5 caused notable emotion in Vienna,"
says the Exchange Telegraph com-
pany's Amsterdam correspondent. The
general public "was not aware of the
serious nature of his illness, accord-
ing to those advices, because of the
non-alarming character of the bulle-
Itins issued.
The emperor, the dispatch adds, was
feverish yesterday afternoon, being
unable to eat .his evening meal and
retiring at 7 o'clock assisted to his
bed by his daughter, Archduches Val
erie. He found himself unable to
sleep and asked that his physicians
be summoned, complaining of pains
in the throat.
Emperor Dies Suddenly.
At 0 o'clock the emperor appeared
to be in a more restful state. A few
minutes later, according to the dis
patches, the doctors saw him and he
made a gesture pointing to his throat.
A second afterward he was dead.
The members of the imperial family
were immediately summoned as were
the officials of .statew.ho prepared. an
announcement" of the death.
Emperor William was immediately
informed of the passing of his ally,
the message being sent over the tele
phone which links the headquarters
of the German army with Schoenbrunn
palace.
Nothing has yet been decided, it is
said, with regard, to the emperor's ac
cession. Paris Papers Comment;
Paris, Nov 22, 7 a. m. Although no
oincial confirmation of the death of
Emperor Francis Joseph had been re
ceived in Paris early this morning, the
press generally accepted the news as
authentic. Special editions announc
ing the emperor's death were bought
up rapidly-, and the passing of the
monarch was discussed with the great
est interest. In their comment the
newspapers are merciless.
The Matin says:
"The sinister old man, who for sixty
eight years wore the double crown,
disappears too soon, notwithstanding
his eighty-six years, for he has not
seen the approaching hour of expia-
.j tion of the crimes for which he will
I l bear eternally in history a crushing
responsibility and stigma. But the
j "' Bpectre of punishment must have
haunted his later days If this man, so
monstrously indifferent, was acces
Jh Bible to any feeling whatever this
fg : man who witnessed unmoved the
S worst catastrophes heaped up on his
ilK fallcn family and his country. The
I Irony of fate!
' Man of Ferocious Egotism.
"If he had disappeared from the
scene three years sooner, the world
would have forgotten his calculating
1 cowardice, his ferocious egotism, his
I hypocrisy and would have remembered
: nniv V.Q nrivnr tu1 nnhlln mfsfor-
ItunoB which marked almost all the
years of his reign, without reflecting
that these misfortunes wero all de
: served. He would perhaps have been
; pitied. But justice has not permitted
' that he swindle the world out of this
i supremo homage. It has made for his
death a setting of reprobation and
r horror."
', It is not believed in Paris that the
; death of the emperor will affect the
: var In any way. The general Impres
', sion here is that he had long been
1 more or less of a figurehead, signing
; without reading documents to which
. Ma signature was necessary and tak-
tag no part in affairs of state.
Amsterdam, via London, Nov. 22,
1:50 a. m. The Vienna bulletin issued
csday evening concerning the con
I dltlon of Emperor Francis Joseph
tald:
mi u "The Beat of tho inflammation In
at 1 s bright lung, established yesterday,
nti : haB increased. The patient's temper
, tore early this morning was 3S.1 re-
I W ( nmur; at 2 o'clock 39.5 and thiB vo
$ $4 'tlnS 39.6. Breathing had accelerated
i 2 iTj to 30 respirations a minute. Appetite
A U ,tmaU and vitality visibly lowered."
4 Archduke Charles Francis, grand
efci 'J'Phe'W of Emperor Francis Joseph,
ad - 1 Smo heir to the throne of Austria
re 'ttP ?aneary by the assassination of
jjn's vr y chduke Francis Ferdinand prior to
" jjfcr i outbreak of the war. He has been
1 I i Z. comniand of the Austrian armies
ial" W ' var,0Us fronts during the past two
if1'- V" V rs
ed,:; J Archduke Charles Francis was born
jo-' ' 5 -US, Aueust 17. 1887. His wife was
's ?' '8f 5icesa Zlta of the bourbon house
... ?, wr parma. His father was the Arch-
-3-
duke Otto, who was the youngest
brother of Francis Ferdinand.
Like the death of Pope Pius X, the
end of the venerable Emperor Fran
cis Joseph is charged largely, against
the great war. The one man was a
helpless spectator, shocked at the
horror of such a sudden and wide
spread clash of arms; the other the
man whose action in avenging the as
sassination of his heir engulfed nine
nations in combat.
With Francis Joseph's death in the
midst of this great conflict there is
a remarkable climax to a long list of
tragedies in the Hapsburg family a
list unparalleled in any other reigning
house in Europe including the assas
sination or violent death of seven
near relatives.
The fortitude with which the em
peror bore each blow and in later
years withstood the inroads of ill
health himself was the wonder of his
people. Fears that the shock of the
assassination of his heir, the Arch
duke Francis Ferdinand and his con
Bort while on a state visit to Bosnia
on" June 28, 1914, would kill the em
peror were answered in characteris
tic manner.
Francis Joseph, then-nearing his
eighty-fourth birthday, rocuperating
at Ischl from a catarrhal affliction
which each spring had wore heavily
upon him, mustered strength to return
to Vienna immediately,, and take a
frim grip on the confused state of af
fairs. With the royal funeral rites ob
served, and the new neir, the young
Archduke Carl Francis Joseph recog
nized, tho venerable emperor and his
advisers turned to Serbia with de
mands which startled all Europe.
From the ultimatum of July 23, de
nouncing the anti-Austrian propagan
da and demanding prompt punishment
of the assassins of Archduke Ferdi
nand, according to items supposedly
dictated by Francis Joseph himself,
practically dates tho war now ravag
ing Europe.
In his manifesto of July 28, the day
of formal declaration of war upon
Serbia, Francis Joseph said:
"The Intrigues of a malevolent op
ponent compel me In defense of the
honor of my monarchy and for the
protection of its dignity, anti the se
curity of its possessions to grasp the
sword after long years of peace.
"The hope that Serbia would keep
its word has not been fulfilled; tho
flame of its hatred for myself and my
house has always blazed higher.
"In this solemn hour I am fully con
scious of the whole significance of
my resolve and my responsibility be
fore tho Almighty. I have examined
and weighed everything, and with se
rene conscience set out on the path
that duty points."
With the war on, communication
with Vienna was practically cut off.
Rumors of the emperor's assassina
tion or his Impending death from
shock over the great war he had or
dered were circulated with denials
following.
On August 27, when the Germans
were moving into France, Francis Jo
seph conveyed his greetings to Em
peror William In these words:
"Victory after victory, God Is with
you. He will be with us also; I most
sincerely congratulate you, dear
friend, also the young hero, your dear
son, the crown prince, and vhe Prince
Rupprecht, as well as the incompara
bly bravo German army. Words fail
to express what moves me and with
me, my army, in these days of world's
history."
Official Death Notice.
Paris, Nov. 22, 2:30 p. m A Havas
despatch from Madrid says the Aus
trian embassy has announced official
ly the death of Emperor Francis
Joseph.
This is the first official announce
ment of the emperor's death to be re
ceived. News in Washington.
Washington, Nov. 22. Messages of
condolence on tho death of Emperor
Francis Joseph of Austria-Hungary
were prepared at the state depart
ment today In expectation of immedi
ate official announcement from the
American ambassador at Vienna or
the Austrian charge hero. President
Wilson will Bend messages both to the
Royal Famllv and to the Austrian
charge here, while Secretary Lansing
will send messages to the charge hero
and to the minister of foreign affairs
in Vienna.
Congratulations to the new mon
arch will not be sent until later when
his ascension to the throne is official
ly reported.
Washington, Nov. 22. The German em
bassy, basing its views upon an intimate
knowledge or conditions in the dual monarchy,
is certain that the death of Emperor Francis
Joseph and the ascension of Charles Francis
Joseph will result in renewed' military activity
of a most energetic character. The dead
monarch, by reason of his age and his infirmi
ties, has taken no more than a passively active
part in, the war plans for some months. The
new ruler has been actively engaged on vari
ous fronts where the Austro-Hungarian armies
have been operating during the last two
years.
' f No Effect on War.
Count von Bcrnstorff, the German ambas
sador, feels that from an internal political
viewpoint, the death of the Austrian emperor
will not have the slightest effect on the war.
In times of peace such an event might have a
strong effect. In war lime, however, the am
bassador believes the people are united for
success of their arms. Furthermore, the am
bassador feels that the peoples of the duol
monarchy have been so solidified by the war
that the death of their ruler will not bring
about any political changes of importance.
The new monarch is said to have well defined
ideas regarding peace and personally is peace
fully inclined. He is described as "a sensible
man and, therefore in favor of peace rather
than war."
Daughter Reads Prayers.
Amsterdam, Nov. 22, via London, 1:56 p.
m. The Vienna Frcmdenblatt says it learns
that when the Austrian emperor died all mem
bers of the imperial household who were in
Vienna, were present in the death chamber.
Baron Bunan, the Austro-Hungarian foreign
minister, and Dr.-Kocrber, ihe Austrian pre
mier, and all the court dignitaries also were
there. Archduchess Marie Valerie read the
prayers for the dying.
Kaiser Wilhelrn Expected.
London, Nov. 22, 2:30 p. m. The
German emperor and King Ferdinand
of Bulgaria are expected to arrive at
the Austrian capital tomorrow, says
a telegram from Vienna received by
the Exchange Telegraph company by
way of Geneva.
According to the. latesj. JrletaIIs of
the Austrian emperbr's''aTati','lhev mes'
sage says, his majesty became delir
ious yesterday afternoon, passing later
Into a comatose condition and did not
recover consciousness.
Change for Worse.
Amsterdam, Nov. 22. Via London,
2:22 p. m. Emperor Francis Joseph
on Monday evening, for the first time
went to bed earlier than usual. The
first part of the night passed undis
turbed. Then attacks of coughing be
gan. During the day time yesterday
feverish symptoms showed a threaten
ing change for the worse and in the
afternoon an aggravation set in which
resulted in the death of the aged mon
arch. Archduchess Mario Valerie, who had
remained constantly at her father's
death bed, had gone to the Western
Railway station shortly before eight
o'clock to meet her daughter, who was
returning to Vienna from the royal
chateau at Wallsce. The archduchess,
however, Immediately was recalled by
court officials to Schoenbrunn, as,
after her departure all hope of the
emperor living through the night had
disappeared and shortly after her re
turn his majesty breathed his last.
Despite the fact that tho evening
bulletin left no doubt about the em
peror's serious condition, the people of
.Vienna still maintained their firm
belief In his power of recuperation and
the news of his death, published about
eleven o'clock had a parlyzlng effect
upon tho public. All amusements were
at once suspended.
CHARGES AGAINST
PRODUCE DEALERS
i
Fruits and Vegetables Allowed
to Rot in Fields in Order to
Increase Prices.
Chicago, Nov. 2. With the receipt
of Information, which, according to
United States officials, apparently
tends to support the belief that cer
tain produce Scalers are permitting
fruits and vegetables to rot in tho
fields that prices may be increased, a
corp of federal agents, directed by
United States District Attorney CIyne,
today was searching for the persons
responsible. The evidence, if obtained,
will bo presented to tho federal grand
jury herb attempting to fix the respon
sibility for Increasing food prices.
Organized Holdup.
Intimations have reached Mr.
Clyno, ho said, that through organ
ized effort, agents have been sent
through the country purchasing sup
plies and preventing their shipment
to middle western markets. These
complaints, according to Mr. Clyno, in
dicate that seven acres of pumpkins,
twenty-eight carloads of potatoes and
a trainload of cabbages have been
destroyed to further the food shortage
and that wholesalers in Norfolk, Phila
delphia and Saginaw are holding quan
tities of beans in storage while the
price rises.
Announcement was made that a
forum for tho discussion of the prices
of foods and other necessities will bo
established hero shortly.
NEW DEVICE FOR
THROWING BOMBS
i "nit -rzJi
This new device for throwing
bombs, or gTenades, has just been in
troduced by the French on tho
Somme front. The bomb is inserted
in the stand and the rifle of the sol
dier is used to fire it
ISSUEtaNSAS
Prompt Appeal to Supreme
Court of United States
Will Be Made.
JUDGE HOOK DECIDES
Holds Measure Unconstitution
al Urges Road to Assist
in Rushing Appeal.
Kansas City, Mo., Nov. 22. The
Adamson eight-hour law was held un
constitutional here today by Judge
William C. Hook in United States dis
trict court.
Judge Hook directed tho receivers
of the Missouri, Oklahoma and Gulf
railroad, who brought the original ac
tion In this case, to enjoin the law
from going into effect, to assist the
government in expediting tho case to
the supremo corut of the United
States for final decision and instruct
ed them, through their attorneys, to
invite the representatives of every
railroad In this country to participate
in the hearings before the highest
court In the land. This was requested
in the government's motion to dismiss
the injunction petition of the railroad,
tho government desiring to avoid "pro
longed, unnecessary and scattered liti
gation through the hearing of count
less similar suits filed by. every rail
system in every federal district in
the United States through which their
lines run.
It Is expected that the ultimate de
cision, as to whether the law will go
into effect January 1, will bo handed
down before that time. A transcript
of the present case will be filed in
the supreme court before it recon
venes December. 4.
Judge Hook's Decree.
The text of Judge Hook's decree fol
lows: "This is an independent suit to en
join the enforcement of a recent act
of congress, commonly called the
Adamson law, upon the ground that it
Is contrary to the constitution. In the
character of the averments, the plain
tiff's bill of complaint is stated to
be typical of a number recently filed
by railroad companies in various dis
trict courts of tho United States. A
motion to dismiss has been presented
on behalf of tho defendent United
StateB attorney. The solo question
raised by it is that of the constitution
ality of tho law. The court is informed
that tb.9 other cases stand on appli
cations for temporary injunctions.
"An appeal from an order granting,
or refusing, a temporary Injunction
goes to tho circuit court of appeals
and not further by ordinary procedure,
while an appeal from a final order or
decree In such a caso would go direct
to tho supremec ourt of the United
States. In tho former a decision would
be inconclusive; in tile latter a deci
sion would definitely sottlo tho ques
tion for the whole country. j.ue mo
tion to dismisB the caBe, however, it is
decided, will promptly rosult in a
final decree from which an appeal will
be taken to tho supreme court.
Court Invoked to Aid. i
"The assistance of the court has
been invoked to facilitate a final and
authoritative determination of the con
stitutional question. The case was pre
sented but yesterday and a decision is
expected today. It is far from being
agreeablo duty for a judge to record a
judicial conclusion without the care
and deliberation essential to a convic
tion that he would understand in ev
ery circumstance. Upon the merits
of the case, the government neither
asks nor receives from a court great
er consideration than is reviewed by
tue settled rules and presumptions of
law, but a request by the department
of justice to aid the progress of a
case consistently with the rights of
everyone cannot be declined, certain
ly not for personal consideration.
Law Cannot Be Sustained.
"Upon a consideration of the Adam
son law and of what iB said of its
practical effect and what was intend
ed to be accomplished by It, the judg
ment Is that, as the court construes
the terms of the law, it cannot be sus
tained. Since both parties have said
they would not plead further, what
ever the decision may be, a decree
would be entered for the plaintiff, re
citing the defendant prays and Is al
lowed an appeal in an open court. The
case in which the plaintiffs were ap
pointed receivers is in charge of the
judge who is acting here. An order
will be entered in that case directing
plaintiffs and their counsel to co-operate
with the department of justice in
lodging the appeal in the supreme
court by December 4 next, and as that
court may find it consistent to grant;
also to Invite counsel for all railroad
companies and other similarly Inter
ested in tho question involved to par
ticipate in the presentation of the mat
ter to advance the arguments on the
merits as fully as though their clients
were parties to tho litigation. Though
the decree of the court in tho case
is informal yet, because of the varying
circumstances, the plaintiffs will be
directed to keep their accounts and
be prepared promptly to pay their
employes on the basis of the Adamson
lawshould the decree be not sus-rfainedT-
Neither the attorneys for many largo
railroad systems, who wero present in
court, nor the government counsel
present would comment on the decree.
Apparently both sides regarded the
caso only as a means of obtaining a
decision by the supreme court, which
is the final arbiter.
Kansas City, Mo., Nov. 22. The Ad
amson eight-hour law was at issue to
day in United States district court
here in the first of many cases filed
throughout the country attacking its
constitutionality to reach an issue.
Whatever the decision rendered by
Judge William C. Hook today, appeal
to the supreme court of the United
States wilL follow quickly In an ef
fort to obtain the ultimate decision in
the case before January 1 when the
law is to go Into effect.
Action in tho case was precipitated
yesterday when Frank Hagerman, spe
cial counsel for the government, filed
a motion before Judge Hook, asking
immediate decision in the injunction
proceedings against the law brought
by Alexander New and Henry C. Fer
riss, receivers for tho Missouri, Okla
homa and Gulf railroad, which the
government contends should be dis
missed. Should Judge Hock decide against
the government's contentions and
hold the law unconstitutional, the mo
tion asks that the receivers for tho
Missouri, Oklahoma and Gulf, which
is in the hands of receivers appointed
by the court, be directed to assist the
government in bringing the case im
mediately before the supremo court
which reconvenes December 4.
Judge Hook stated from the bench
that if he decided to grant the motion
he would direct the receivers to in
vite representatives of all railroads
in tho United StateB to participate In
the final legal battle before the high
est court In the land, thereby deter
mining In one action the validity of
the numerous suits pending in various
United States district courts.
nn
WILL BE NO RECESS
APPOINTMENTS MADE
Washington, Nov. 22. Because of
the short time before congress meets,
President Wilson probably will not
make recess appointments to tho tar
iff commission, the shipping board
and tho board to administer tho work,
ing mn's compensation law. Offi
cials said today that he has not made
inal selections for any of these bodies.
TRANSPORTATION OF
HARVEST HANDS
Chicago, Nov. 22. As "reapers of
tho grain to feed the nation," harvest
hands are entitled, to free transporta
tion, according to speakers at tho
tenth annual convention of the Indus
trial Workers of tho World in session
here today.
A communication from the Inter
state Commerce Commission explain
ing, however, that under the law such
transportation cannot be provided,
was read by William D, Hoywood, na
Uonal secretary.
v
FATE OF THE RUMANIANS
HANGING IN BALANCE;
NEW BATTLE IN PROGRESS , I
Germans and Bulgars Making Stand Against H
French and Serbs on the H
Macedonian Front. ' I
The fate of the Rumanian armies
in western Wallachia appears yet to
be hanging in the balance.
The exact measure of the fruits
gathered by the Teutonic Invaders
from their capture of the important
Wallachian city of Craiova, reported
yesterday, Is not yet apparent but
fears are expressed in entente quar
ters for the safety of the Rumanian
forces that have been operating in Ihe
Orsova region, on the western Ru
manian frontier, now that the main
line railroad has been cut at Craiova.
Also it seems virtually all of west
ern Wallachia has been won by the
armies of the central powers.
A new battle has opened on the
Macedonian front where the Bulgar
ians and Germans who evacuated
Monastlr are making a stand against
the pursuing Serbians and French,
Paris reports the Teutonic allies mak
ing a stubborn resistance and a heavy
fog also holding up tho advance.
v Comparative quiet continues to pre
vail on the Franco-Belgian front, "Loh
don announcing nothing more import
ant than artillery and patrol activity.
Austro-Germans Unchecked.
Berlin, Nov. 22. (By wireless to Say
ville.) The Austro-German invasion
of Rumania is proceeding unchecked,
says today's announcement from the
war office. Rumanian attacks were
defeated and ground was gained on the
Rothenthurm pass road and in the Alt
valley.
The entrance of German troops into
the Rumanian city of Craiova, the cap
ture of which was reported last eve
ning, was announced in today's offi
cial statement which reads:
"Southwest of Riga advanced detach
ments of German territorials brought
back from a Russian position 33 pris
oners and three machine guns. Other
wise from the sea to the end of the
Carpathians near Kronstadt, no impor
tant fighting occurred.
"On the Rothenthurm pass road and
in the valleys leading into the Alt
river valley, ground was gained in en
gagements. Speedily breaking the re
sistance of the defeated enemy by a
bayonet attack and a thrust, West
Prussian and East Prussian infantry
entered Craiova from the north and
squadrons of Her Majesty's Cuirassier
regiment from the wesL"
British Trenches Raided.
Berlin, Nov. 22, by wireless to Say
villo. British trenches south of La
Basso canal wero raided last night by
tho Germans, the war office an
nounces. The statement follows:
"Western front: Foggy weather has
greatly interfcrrcd with fighting ac
tivity. "South of La Basse canal patrols of
Anhalt Infantry Regiment No. 93 and
Magdeburg Pioneer Battalion' No. 4 en
tered British trenches and after de
stroying the defensive works, brought
back more than twenty prisoners and
one-machine gun.
"In the Somme sector also, there
was only moderate artillery activity
during tho day. Tho fire increased in
the evening on both banks of the An
cre and upon St. Pierre Vaast wood.
"British attacks northwest of Serre
broke down under our defensive fire."
Germans Capture Height.
Berlin, Nov. 22, by wireless to Say
vliie. The capture by German forces
of a height near Paralova on the
Macedonian front ten miles northeast
of Monastir, is announced officially as
follows:
"Between Lake Ochrlda and Lake
Presba and on the Monastir plains
vanguards of the entente forces came
within reach of the German and Bul
garian positions.
"East of Paralova our Rifles of tho
Guard re-captured a height and main
tained it against several strong at
tacks." Heavy Fighting In Progress.
Paris, Nov. 22, 12 noon. Energetio
rcsiBtanco is being offered by the
Germans and Bulgarians on the Mace
donian front north of Monastir, the
war office announces. The advance
of the entente forces was delayed also
by heavy fog. Five hundred more
prisoners were taken.
Tho Germano-Bulgarlan forces are
accepting battle on a line running
from Snegovo, three miles north of
Monastir, to Hill 1050, southwest of
the town of Makovo, which is 13 miles
northeast of Monastir.
WOUNDED MEN I
SENT TO BOTTOM I
i-
Over Fifty Allied Soldiers Lose !
Lives When Ship ' IH
Is Sunk. IH
TWENTY-EIGHT INJURED ' H
Great Converted Liner, Lar- H
gest in Commission, and IH
Equipped With 6,000 'i
Beds. !
Athens, Nov. 22, 6:30 a, m., via Lon
don, 4:52 p. m. The White Star line jJ
steamship Britannic, serving as a hos- k
pital ship for wounded soldiers of the
entente allies, has been torpedoed and
sunk, according to an official an
nouncement made here today.
The Britannic was sunk off the isl
and of Kea (Keos, south of Atica in
the Aegean). She carried 1000 Brit
ish sick and wounded men.
The Britannic was was enuipped
with thirty-five life boats and the loss fM
of life incident to the sinking is sup- IH
posed to have been small. IH
Fifty Lives Lost.
London, Nov. 22, 4:10 p. m. The '
British hospital ship Britannic has lH
been sunk with the loss of about fifty
lives, says a British official announce- JM
ment today.
'The Britannic was sunk by a mine ; jH
or a torpedo yesterday morning in the
Aegean, according to, the official state- jH
ment. There were 1106 survivors of
whom about twenty-eight were injured. (
Full details of the disaster, it was an- , jH
nounced, will be published as soon as
they are received. jH
It is understood hero that the
Britannic sunk was tho new White WM
Star liner of that name of 47,500 tons.
Largest Hospital Ship.
It was reported in a special dis
patch from London on December 6
last that the 47,000-ton White Star
liner Britannic, then recently complet
ed, would be used as a hospital ship
bv the British government, making H
the largest hospital ship in commis
sion, with an equipment of six thou
sand beds. Last June, however, it
was reported in a news dispatch from
Liverpool that the Britannic had been
returned to the White Star line for
restoration into a passenger steamer.
The White Star liner Britannic was
the largest vessel of the White Star
'fleet afloat Built in 1904 at Belfast,
she was 852 feet long, 94 feet beam,
and 59 feet depth. Her length was
somewhat less than that of the White
Star liner Olympic, which measured tM
888 1-2 feet, but the Britannic had the
greater tonnage, the Olympic's being
46,300 tons as compared with the
Britannic's 47,500.
Late in November, 1915, it was re- jH
ported that the Britannic was being
fitted out for the Dardanelles Bervice
aa a hospital ship. The only other
British steamer Britannic is a com- tiM
paratlvely small vessel of 224( tons
grosB, regarding which there is no j
record of having been In the British jH
war service.
No Americans Aboard. !
Washington, Nov. 22. At Red Cross ,
headquarters today it was stated there
weer no American surgeons or nurses j
under Its direction serving on hospital
ships in European waters. Their only JM
workers are several units which aro '
ashore. They pointed out that, If
there wero Americans aboard, the
Britannic they undoubtedly reX'
unteers who had gono abroad on their -own
account. IH
Greo" sSer Erlsoa tos arrived fe
118 Soto of mall and forced her to H
throw her curso overboard.
