Crossville
Chronicle,
TH riNNEMIt TIMH I , CONSOLIDATED
O . 4 V ILLS OHHONIOLI I j 1895
VOL. XXX. , CROSSVILLE, TENNESSEE. WEDNESDAY. NOVEMBER 22. 1916. NO. 47
is
OPt SEASON FOR HUNTING. DIXIE SHORT ROUTE.
What It is Lawful to Kill and What Bridges All in to Clear Creek and
OLD RESIDENT GONE. MIDDLE TENN. FARM NEWS
Unlawful and When Season
Closes
The open season lor bunting com
ment Wednesday of last week.
Whlk tne hunting season is at hand
there ue cercion restrictions that for
bid trie killing of certain birds and
wild annuals and these birds and ani
mal tnat may be killed cannot law
fully be killed by just any means the
hunter way choose. Herewith we give
an extract from the game laws that
will help Chronicle readers to know
the law and thus render them less li
able to violate the game laws. In this
we do not mention the fish laws for the
fishing season is not at hand and will
not be lor some months yet:
Quail and Partridge November 15
to January j. Except the following
counties; Bedtord and Moore, Decem
ber 1 to January 1; Chester, Harde
man and Haywood, December 15 to
March 1 ; Fayette, December 15 to
Febri;aiyl5; Montgomery, December
1 to February 1; Sullivan, November
20 to February 15; Washington, No
vember 20 to January 1 ; McMinn,
Morn . .-, Unicoi and White have close
season for three years, Rutherford for
four years, Crockett for five years, and
Gibson foi two years.
Tu. i t js November 15 to January 1.
Gobi ! is ay be killed from April 1
to April 25.
Bwan, 0 ese, Brant and Ducks Oc
tober 1 to January 15.
Rails, Mudhens, Coots, Sandpipers,
Curlews September 1 to December 1.
W. "cocks Novembei 1 to January
1.
"Sripe and Flovers-etober 1 to
Deci " her 36.
Di v August 15 to January 1 Ex
cept !! the following counties: Mont
gomery, September 1 tc December 1;
Fay i tti , August 1 to November 15;
Work Being Pushed on It
That portion of the Dixie Short
Route betw sen Crossville and James
town, a distance of approximately 40
miles, is rapidly nearing completion in
this county and work is being pushed
with great energy in Fentress county.
All the bridges are in between
Crossville and Clear Creek, a distance
ot about 20 miles. At one of the
bridges a small amount ot tilling is
needed at one of the approaches. That
will likely be completed within a few
days.
The Fentress county workers moved
their camp to Clear Creek Monday to
begin making the fill on that side of
the creek. The concrete piers are up
and the bridge company is expected to
commence putting up the bridge with
Home of Son Wednesday.
Mrs. Caroline Tucker, Erasmus, died
Wednesday at the home of her son, S.
A. Tucker, in her 87th year, having
Agriculture, University of Tennessee,
Knoxville.
! passed the 86th milestone of life last
May. Death was due to old age. The
remains were interred at Thomas
Springs Friday forenoon attended by !
numerous friends and neighbors.
Her life had been one of quiet and
simple service for those she loved. She1
had been making her home with her
son for several years as her husband
had preceded her to the grave some
thirty years ago.
Last year the Chronicle offered a life
subscription to the person who had
lived the longest in this county, pro
vided they would write a letter to this
paper telling in a brier way ot their
ment, which is at other times used for
the regular courses in agriculture and
because of the availability of one of
Mrs. Caroline Tucker, Erasmus, Died at Prepared Exclusively for the Chronicle by ! the 8tate experiment station farms at
n. i r r i it ,i niiuiviue, v. nu n is useu lor in out-
Division of Extension. College of iof.door laboratorv work.
The purpose of this course it to give)
those who can attend a thorough, prac
tical training in the various farm prac
tices which have tor Tennessee been
to the farmer the
Because the institu
tion which gives the course is a state
scnool all of the work will deal with)
Tennessee conditions.
At the end of the course a certificate
is given to each person. This certifi
cate will show the work that has been
accomplished during the six weeks.
The date for the course has been set
or January 1 to February 10, 1917.
Q a week. It will take the Fentress ! &0journ in this county. The letter from
Kuit . Aigust 1 to November 1;
Sullivan, November 20 to February 15;
(tanner, August 1 to January 1;
Crockett has a close season for five
years.
Squirrel i June 1 to January 1, ex
cept in certain counties.
Deer are protected until October,
1917.
License tor hunting in any county of
of residence $1.00; for hunting in any
county of state, $2.00; ncn-residence
license, $10.00.
All licenses are issued by the County
Court Clerks.
IT IS UNLAWFUL:
To kill wild birds, other than game
birds, except the English sparrow, the
owl, crow and members of the crow
family, the hawk, except the sparrow
hawk, and the turkey buzzard.
To kill game hirds and animals ex
cept in the open season.
To hunt birds or animals without
first securing a hunter's license.
Except that person may hunt upon
his own land without license.
To barter, sell, or serve for pay or
offer for sale any of the protected
birds or animals.
To hum upon the inclosed lands of
another without persmission.
To k:ll more thun twenty game
birds or animals in one day.
To take, ship or transport any pro
tected animal or bird, killed in this
state, unless the same be in the per
sonal possession of oi be carried open
ly by tht owner or person who killed
or captured same who has in his pos-1
session at the time a lawful license to!
bunt.
To use any pitfall, deadfall, scaffold,
cage, snare, trap, net, salt lick, blind,
pen, baited hook, poison, chemicals or
explosive for the purpose ot killing,
in.iuri g, or capturing any protected !
birds or animals. President Wilson has
To pursue, catch, take or kill any Thursday, November 30,
birds, wild turkeys, wild ducks, wild ,v,n Day-
geese or other aquatic bird or fowl be
tween sunset and sunrise.
Grand juries have inquisitorial pow
ers to investigate the violations ot
any of the game and fish laws.
All sheriffs, deputy sheriffs, con
stables, city marshalls and policemen
are ex-ofhcio deputy game and fish
wardens and as such, are required to
enforce all game and fish laws.
County forces about a month to com
plete their part of the fill. The bridge
is under contract to be ready for traffic
by January 15. The approaches to the
bridge will be completed before that
time.
Atty. J. T. Wheeler came over from
Jamestown Monday in two hours and a
half in his Ford car and had very little
difficulty at any point. He reports the
Fentress county people highly pleased
with the progress this county has
made in constructing our twenty miles
of the di8tc .ee between Crossville and
Jamestown and says that Fentress
county will rely have their part of
the work re. ly for traffic by the time
the Clear Creek bridge is ready, l hat
means that within three months every
thing will be in shape so that ti e run
from Crossville to Jamestown can eas
ily be made in two I lours. Before
the Dixie Short Route was built it was
a hard day's drive to cover ihe dis
tance between the two places with a
team and by auto it was an impossibil
ity. The trip can row be made with
ease by team in a little over half a
day.
GRASSY COVE AND CRAB
ORCHARD
The work is largely completed on the
road between Grassy Cove and Crab
Orchard, there being about two miles
remaining that is only partly com
pleted. When this is finished it is ex
pected that work will be begun on the
road between Crossville and th top of
the mountain, where the Grassy Cove
and Crab Orchard road comeo nearest
to Crossville, a distance ot about eight
mi lei.
The bad weather that is due to ar
rive soon is expected to delay road
work to a considerable extent until the
opening of spring, when it will be
pushed with renewed vigor and by
next tall there will be many Utiles
more of good grade throughout this
county.
It is now easy to travel to Rock
wood, twenty-four miles east, and the
road will probably be completed in a
few months to White county line,
fourteen miles west. That means an
easy outlet on the east to Knoxville
and Chattanooga now and a little later
the same easy outlet to Nashville
RUSH CASE.
The Supreme court, sittinar at Knox
ville. has declined to pass on the Vic
tor Rush case, convicted in two cases
for the killing of his brother, Will
Rush, and the wife of Will Rush,
Mabel Rush, in Grassy Cove last Sep
tember a year ago, until they hear ar
gument by the council. The case has
been transferred to Nashville, where
the court will convene the first Mon
day in December.
THANKSGIVING DAY.
designated
as Thanks-
WEATHER REPORT.
Mrs. Tucker showed her to have been
one ot two women who had lived long
er than any other then living person in
the county, and she was awarded the
life subscription, which has now ter
minated. The other lady to receive u
life subscription, was Mrs. Zylphia
Flynn, Lantana, who is the mother of
Ex-Tax Assessor W. L. Flynn, Capt.
A. L. Flynn and two other sons, one of
whom, T. S. Flynn, has been living in
Idaho for several years and the other,
Phillip Flynn, lives at Lantana and is
caring for his aged mother.
The letter Mrs. Tucker wrote was so
interesting that we repr duce it here
with to Bbow how her lite had been
cast in quiet and peaceful places, free
from the turmoils and excitement of
modern progess. The letter follows:
HISTORY OF HER LIFE.
Erasmus, Temi., May 23, 1915.
Editor Chronicle : -As I hear you
want the old tolks to write you a let
ter I thought 1 would write and tell
you I have been here several days
myself.
1 am the oldest daughter of Burl and
Lizzie Driver. I was born in the year
183085 years ago. My parents came
to this neighborhood from North Caro
lina. This was then White county. 1
lived with my parents until I was 33
years old, when 1 met and married
Elijah (j. Tucker, who also came from
North Carolina.
We settled at what is known as the
old Uriver place, one mile south ot
Erasmus. Our nearest neighbor was
Geo. Patton, one mile away; the next
was three miles. There were Sam
Thomas, Grancer Scarhrough, Rebecca
Flynn, some others.
1 have in these 85 years seen many
great changes, tor instance, in the
mail service. We had to send twenty
miles for our mail and pay 10 cents to
get a letter out of th post office. Now
two cents will carry a letter trom your
door thousands of milts.
Our nearest store was Sparta, twen
ty miles away, but we didn t need
many stores for we neither had much
to sell or anything to buy with
We made
and cotton.
sheep on account of the wolves; the
woods were full of them, we could hear
them most any time.
There were no schools or churches in
this country in my young days. I
have lived in this county all my life ot
85 years; have never been over 40
miles from where l was born. I was
75 years old before 1 saw a railroad
train and 1 have my first ride yet to
take on a train.
After 1 was married, 1 had born six
children, of which four are now living:
S. A., L. F. and E. L. Tucker and
Mrs. R. G. Lewis. The others, a boy
and a girl, having die in middle age.
I also have 41 grandchildren and
twelve great grandchildren.
The Middle Tennessee Beef Breeders'
Association is holding a Hereford sale found to return
at the State Fair Grounds Nashville, j greatest profits.
Friday of this week November 24.
This sale makes possible for the live
stock farmers of Middle Tennessee
Who desire to develop the Hereford
type ot beef cattle an opportunity of
unusual value at the very least ex
pence. SHEEP AND WHEAT
It is a Middle Tennessee farmer who
tells this story :
In driving a band of two hundred
ewes they got into a wheat field along
the road. The irate landowner under
took to hold them for exorbitant dam
ages. Believing that the squire was
prejudiced against sheep and realizing
that witnesses for plaintiff testified
that damage was greater than the croc
off the same land brought the year be
fore, the shepherd put up $300 and
bought the crop and left the sheep
there.
Later be sold the ewes averaging
100 pounds at 6 1-4 cents and lambs, 65
pounds at 0c. Then the wheat crop,
much to the chagrin of the Viatives,
made him an average of 29 bushels per
acre, whereas only 15 bushe s were
threshed from its last crop.
Since then it haH become the general
and very profitable custom to graze
small grain well up into April with
sheep and lambs, having good fences
so that they can be kept off in very
soft weather, from cropping too close,
or after joints begin to form. Actual
results justify the assertion that light
ruminants like sheep and goats are a
distinct advantage to such crops. In
this way one can eat hia cake and have
too. Many folks thought the land
could only grow wheat, whereas it
could and did throw off three crops
more easilj and better than one wheat
wool- lambs.
BEES OF VALUE TO FARMERS.
Have you ever noted the fact that
the honey and wax produced on Ten
nessee farms in 1909 reached a value
of almost $185,000?
Do you know that this honey was
DroHiicerl on 27.000 farms?
r Do you know that the man who made
the most out of bees was the one who
made the most out ot general farming
and live stock?
Do you know that since the date
when accurate figures were secured,
the honey output of Tennessee has
dropped off very materially ; that foul
brood, the worst disease that can at
tack bees, has ruined the industry on
many farms and in many sections of
the state?
Do you keep bees?
Whether vou do or whether you do
FORGET YOUH ACHES.
Stiff knees, aching limbs, lame back
make life a burden. If you suffer from
rheumatism, gout, lumbago, neuralgia,
get a bottle of Sloan's Liniment, the
universal remedy for pain. Easy to
apply ; it penetrates without rubbing;
and soothes the tender flesh. Cleaner
and more effective than mussy oint
ments or poultices. For strains or
sprains, sore muscles or wrencheH lig
aments, resulting from strenuous ex
ercise, Sloan's Liniment gives quicK
relief. Keep it on hand tor emergen
cies. At your druggist, 25c. 1.
PROSPEROUS KANSAS.
not you will be interested in a plan
which has for its purpose the develop-
our cloth from flax, toe I nient 01 an mdustry which should be
We couldn't have any aaairig t0 the wealth ot lennessee at
least a half million dollars each year.
C. E. Bartholomew, an expert bee
keeper, has been added to the slaff of
specialists of the divisions of exten
sion. He will be subject to the call of
the farmers of the state. Right now
he is beginning a campaign of educa
tion on the point that bees need to be
protected against winter weather in
Tennessee as much as in any other
state. His work is made possible
through the cooperation of the U. S.
Department ot Agriculture and the
State Department of Agr cultuie with
the Division ot Extension of the Uni
versity of Tennessee
INSTRUCTION IN AGRICULTURE
The state college of agriculture,
State Where V'omen Vote and County
Poor Farms Are Few.
There are thirteen Kansas counties
which own no poor larniB and have ne
pauper residents of any kind.
There are seven counties owning
poor farms but with no inmates and
there are nine counties in which the
inmates are able to make the tarms
self-supporting and the counties make
no contributions to the poor farm bud
get. In halt a dozen counties there are so
few paupers that the county rents out
the farm and uses the income for the
support of the indigent poor in homes
In the county.
Where there are only three or tour
indigent poor persons in the county,
it has been found more satisfactory to
keep these people in private homes at
county expense than to maintain the
county farm homes.
More people afford automobiles in
.Kansas than any other state. Isn't it
significant that these srjlendid condi
tions are tound in a state which has
made its women voters, and where
men and women help to decide public
affairs? Do some thinking about the
ballot for women.
T. rj, TO SELL.
Judge E. T. Sanford has ordered that
the Tennessee Central railroad be sold
not later than February 15th, The up
set price is $1,350,000. The entire in
debtedness of the road, including un
paid interest, amounts to more than
eleven and one-halt millions of dollars.
Indications are that the one million
dollars in bonds held by Nashville and
the $50,000 in bonds held by this coun
ty will be worth the paper they are
printed on only.
The forecast for the weather for the
week commencing Sunday, November
19, for Tennessee is : Fair until Thurs
day or Friday, when there will be
rains. Temperatures will average
much higher than during the week
just passed.
famce the death of my husband, which is a part of the University of
which occurred twenty-nine years ago, j Tennessee, has just announced definite
I have lived with my children around plans for this year's short course in
the old home place. , I agriculture. This course consists of
i nave always enjoyed good health six weeks of instruction in agronomy,
and do yet. I still make a few yards animal husbandry, dairying, and horti
ot cloth occasionally ; made a fine culture and is available to any parson
piece last winter on the old-fashioned sixteen years of age or older. The
'ooni' ! expenses for the six weeks' course
1 enjoy good hearing and good eye-j need not exceed $35. This small ex
sight ; can thread a needle as well as pense is made possible for the people
anybody. Mrs. Caroline Tucker. ' of Tennessee because of the equip
Attorney G. W. Cline has moved his
office from the Cline building to the
Mitchell building over the post office.
R. D. Holt is here from Cliffy visit
ir.g trienos.
W. M. Palmer was here from Wheel
ing, West Virginia, last week visiting
his wife and her family, Mr. and Mrs.
E. S. Jones.
A band of Indians consisting of sev
en wagons and some twenty or thirty
people struck our town yesetrday and
made life miserable for a while by
pegging ana rattnnt; oit tneir jargon,
which no one could understand. They
were about the dirtiest' and hardest
looking hunch of nomads we have seen
in many moons.
Mr. and Mrs. II. 11, Webb arrived
home Saturday from a trip to New
York and Canidian points that extend
ed over several week -. They enjoyed
the trip splendidly and arrived home
in the best of health an i spirits, yet
glad to be home again.
A possum hunt and wiener roast i
planned for tonight. About twenty
young people will to, c I ;.peroned Jby
Mrs. J. B. Johnson Pud ylrs. M. A.
Martin.
