Jmihi
VOLUME TWENTY-FOUR.
ARDMORE, OKLA., WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1916.
NUMBER 40.
i
LAW IS NOT
T T
X.
FEDERAL JUDGE WILLI
HOOK HOLDS THAT THE
IS UNCONSTITUTIONAL.
. ATTORNEY AT CHICAGO DIRECTS
l. A. FEDERAL AGENTS TO HELP
. -"X RESPONSIBILITY.
V,
TO HIGHEST COURT MAY BE- E
Judge Hook Directed Receivers, Who
Brought Original Action, to Assis
Government in Expediting Case to
the United States Supreme Jur.ge.
Kansas City, Mo., Nov. 22. The Ad
amson law was held unconstitutonal
here today by Judge William O. Hook
of the United States District court.
Judge Hook directed the receivers
of the Missouri. Oklahoma & Gulf
Railroad, who brought the original
Chairman of House Committee on
Appropriations. Favors Placing An
Embargo on Food Stuffs and Will
Prepare Bill for Coming Session.
Chicago. 111.. Nov. 22. With the
receipt- of information, which offici
als say tends to support the belief
that certain produce dealers are per
mitting fruits and vegetables to' rot
in the field, so as to boost prices,
the district attorney directs federal
action in this case, to assist the gov- agents to search, for the responsible
ernment in expediting the case to the
supreme court of the United States
final decision and Instructed them
to Invite the representative rf every
railroad in the country to participate
in the proceedings before the highest
court.
It is expected that an ultimate de
cision as to whether the law will be
effective January 1, will be given be
fore then. The transcript in the pres
ent case will be filed with the su
preme court before it re-convenes on
December 4.
While declaring it "far from agree
able" for a judge to render a decision
which he would stand to, "in every
circumstance," the Judge in order to
expedite the case endered the decree
for the plaintiff railroad. Attorneys
for either side would not comment on
the decision. The government's mo
tion precipitating the action was filed
yesterday. The only question raised
is regarding the constitutionality of
the law.
The legal ..skirmishing on the Ad
unison law was brought to a sudden
Issue yesterday "when a motion was
filed by the government against Alex
ander New and Harry C. Ferris, re
ceivers of the Missouri, Oklahoma &
Gulf railroad, embodying two distinct
requests as follows: "First, the gov
ernment asks an immediate decision
on the injunction petition filed by
the receivers of the Missouri, Okla
homa & Gulf railroad. In which the
Adamson law was attacked as un
constitutional and an order requested
forbidding its enforcement. The gov
ernment contends .that the injunction
petition should be dismissed .because
the law Is constitutional, therefore
leaving the railroad no basin Ii
equioty for its action. Second should
the law be held unconstitutional, the
government asks 'hit the court direct
receivers for the r.lrot-.d to join In
getting the case advanced. Immediate
ly to the supreme ecu", of the United
States for final JocUion."
Immediate'; therefore. Judge Honk
I i nounced that he wouii ake thf
motion under adv. si-men! and render
ris decision todtv.
While the action taken was In the
case of only one railroad, every line
of transportation In the United States
is affected by the case and may
eventually become patlclpantg In It-
parties with a view to a federal
grand Jury investigation to fix re-
spons ibilltyfor the increased prices
Washington, Nov. 22. Government
officials believe that other railroad
.uiu will be halted, pending the out
come of the Kansas City case. It is
uncertain whether a decision on the
Adamson law will be possible before
January 1.
Wants Embargo on Foodstuff.
Washington, 1). ('., Nov. 22. Rep
resentative Fitzgerald, Democrat,
chairman of the house appropriation
committee, announces that he favors
an embargo on foodstuffs and that
he proposes to prepare a bill and
press the subject early in the com
ing session of congress.
, Fitzgerald said lie favored an em
bargo because "It Is the most effec
tive weapon n our controversy witli
Great Britain with her unwar
ranted outrages and in defensible
blacklist of American merchants. An
embargo will be more effective than
many months of diplomatic negotiations."
Two Meatless Days.
Paris, Nov. 22. Two meatless days
a week, Thursday and Friday, have
been decided upon by the cabinet,
while discussing the food supply. A
decree to that effect will be issued
soon. It has also been decided to
prohibit th making of fresh pastry
cakes, rolls and fancy bread. The
smallest loaf will be two pounds.
Crackers and kindred edibles of a dry
character will be the only cakes per
mitted. Use Ash Heaps for Fuel.
Washington, D. C, Nov. 22. The
scarcity of coal, due to the war. has
driven the Hutch to the ash heaps
for fuel. Consular reports describe
the method of griding the refuse
from the furnaces and passing it
through a liquid, which depurates
that having a fuel value from the cin
ders and ashes. Two thousand tons
of refuse produces twenty-eight tons
of fuel.
Emperor Francis Joseph of Austria-Hungary,
Whose Death is Announced Today, and Arch Duke
Charles Francis Joseph, Heir to the Throne
' J f s ' '. ":; 4 ' $ ,
i5't 4ffL V s ,v'rf v.; jA
i '& 1 ' '3
fk c - Q i - w i 'i
k. ' I - 'IS ." ; A
MCHDUKE FRBHCIS JOSEPH T ' JV ' ARCHDUCHESS Z7fl
luJlDH
DIPLOMATS
WILL LEAVE
ALL DIPLOMATIC REPRESENTA
TIVES OF THE CENTRAL POW
ERS WILL LEAVE ATHENS TOMORROW.
SUCCESS AWAITS HER
Chicago. 111., Nov. 22. Twelve em
ployes of the Chicago health depart
ment today began two weeks' experi
ment which Is Intended to demonstrate
that a person can 1It properly on
forty cents daily, nt health com
missioner directed the diet squad to
at slowly, asserting that the "faster
you eat, the more you eat." Forty
minutes is allowed for breakfast.
nnunncnnnnnsnnn
tt
a
ts
tt
K
tt
tt
WEATHER FORECAST
New Orleans. I.a.. Nov. 22.
The weather forecast for Ok
lahoma for tonight and Thurs
day is generally fair with not
much change of temperature.
The school friends of Miss Ford
Harry will be pleased to learn of her
snccess at teaching which reaches us
from Lone Grove. Miss Barry Is a re
cent graduate of the Ardmore High
school. She Is an artist of far more
than mediocre ability and she has a
poise that makes her an ideal teacher.
When site was first employed, Mrs.
H. P. Zanels, who has charge of the
school, planned for her to take some of
the upper grades, but she gave out
such promise as a primary teacher
that she was assigned to that depart
ment Her work is Ideal, the little
folks are doing excellent work, and
that Is saying much, for Lone Grove
has a reputation for doing the best
work in the county. Miss Barry has
before her a career as an artist that,
will bring to her a national reputation
when once she has made an oppor
tunity for herself In the world of art.
She is the daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Steve Noland of this city and usually I
spends her Sundays at home in this
city.
London, Nov. 22. Emperor Francis
Joseph died last night at 9 o'clock at
Schoenbrunn Castle, occording to a
Reuter dispatch from Vienna by way
of Amsterdam.
The first intimation received here
that Kmperor Francis Joseph's health
was again the subject of solicitation
was contained in a dispatch dated
Nov. 12, emanating from a Vienna
news agency, which reported that the
Emperor had been suffering for some
days from a slight cau-.rrhal affection.
Subsequent reports from various
sources, more or less conflicting, rep
resented that his condition was be
coming worse, but none of them indi
cated that his illness threatened to
reach a critical state, and from Vi
enna came assurances that lie was
still able to give audiences to one
or more ministers ually.
What gave some credence to the
suspicion that his condition was much
graver than the official bulletins in
dicated was the report, which still
lacks official confirmation, that it had
been decided to associate the heir to
the throne, Archduke Charles Francis.
In the government of the country, and
that he was to assume the position
on Dec. 2, on the sixty-eighth anniver
3
l r
EMPEROR FRRNCIS JOSEl
himself largely brought about by his
determination to avenge the act of
assassination of his heir, the Arch
duke Francis Ferdinand, as the re
suit of an alleged Serbian conspiracy.
while on
June 2S. 1914.
Francis Joseph was 86 years old at
1 1 if time of his death. He was born
Aug. IS, lS.'JO. He was only 19 years
of age when he ascended the throne
that of Francis Joseph. Louis XIV of
France was nominally king- for sev
enty-two years. He actually occupied
(lie throne for little more than half
a century. A closer rival, and the
only one uf modern times, was Queen
Victoria-, who reigned for sixty four
years.
The aged monarch, although he had
suffered serious inroads upon ills
health for many years past, was strong
enough to keep a firm grip on affairs
of stale almost to the last. There
were repeated reports of a serious
llness from a bronchial affection and
frequently rumors of his deatli which
wero proven unfounded, when official
announcements were made from Vi
enna. Some of the reports assert that
his mind had become affected through
worry over the great war, but the
truth of these reports was not ad
mitted.
In November. 1915, on the occasion
of a visit of Emperor William of Ger-
of Austria, upon the sbdlcation of Ills
sary of the Emperors ascension to uncle, Ferdinand I., Pec. 2, 1S4S, mak
the throne. 'in his active reign extend over a
So far as is known here. Archduke 1 period of sixty-seven years, all but
Charles is still at the front in con
mand of the army.
state visit to Bosnia onlmanv 10 Menna, It was rumored that
Francis Joseph was about to make
a possible move for a separate peace,
but owing to tlie strict censorship of
Austria, tliure was no confirmation of
such a report.
The ultimatum of July 23, 1914.
which Francis Joseph sent to King
Peter of Seriiia, denouncing the anil
Austrian propaganda in that country
anil flemnnHiiifi' nrnmnt minis) met fit
the first Twenty of which he was also
Alliens, Greece, Nov. 22. All diplo
matic represeiilaiives of the central
powers and Turkey will leave Alliens
1 1 1 i 1 1 - tomorrow, in accordance with
the demand:) o!' the commander of the
allied lleet, he having refused to ex
tend the time limil for their departure.
Teutons Offering Resistance.
Paris. Nov. 22. -The Germans and
Bulgarians are offering energetic re
rislaiice unit Ii of Mouastir, on the
.Macedonian front. A heavy fog is
delaying the advance of the entente.
Five hundred prisoners have been tak
en by the allies.
Rumanian Attacks Repulsed.
Benin, Nov. 22. The Humuniun at
tacks were repulsed and ground gain
ed on tlie Itotliernsturm Pass road and
in tlie Alt valley, the war office says.
British Trenches Raided,
Berlin, Nov. 22. The British trench
es south of Lubasse Canal were raid
ed last night by the Germans, It Is
officially announced.
Greek Steamer Held Up.
Marseilles, Nov. 22. A submarine
stopped the Greek steamer Erissos,
seized one hundred and eighteen sacks
of meal and forced her to throw her
cargo overboard, tlio vessel reported
upon arrival here.
Hospital Ship Torpedoed.
Athens, Nov. 22. The White Star
liner steamc rship Britannic, serving
is the hospital ship for the wounded
of the ententes, was torpedoed and
sunk, It is officially announced. Fifty
lives were lost.
I
HI
FRANCIS JOSEPH'S CAREER
Climax of Tragedies.
I Apostolic King of Hungary. It Is the assassins of Archduke Ferdinand,
doubtful that If in all history there was supposedly dictated by Francis
'lias been an active, authentic reign 'Joseph himself, and It was this docu
li.iut was longer. Tradition says a ment that directly precipitated the
ll'haraoh ruled for ninety-nine years, I war now ravaging Europe. .Five days
The death of Francis Joseph Is a and there Istlie more credible Instance i later, after Serbia had compiled w ith
remarkable climax to the long list of of Ita lueses II., Sesostris of tlie Greeks all the demands wMh the exception of
tragedies In tlie Hapsburg family a whose reign is reputed to have cov agreeing to allow Austrian author!
list unparalleled In any other reigning ered sixty-seven years. But In re-1 ties to enter Serbia to stamp out the
house In Eirope. He dies In the midst corded hlsUiry there certainly has alleged anti-Austrian conspiracies,
of the w orld's greatest war, which he been no reign of equal duration to I Francis Joseph declared war.
PROTESTS ON IITTIHN
DEPORTATION TO BE OPENED
OF BELGIANS; DECEMBER 1
I
Three masked men entered the First
National bank at Boswell at 2:15 this
afternoon and held up the men In the
institution at the pnfnt of revolvers.
They ordered two white men and a
negro Into tlie vault and turned the
key. They then went through the
Institution and took all the cash that
could be found, amounting to $8,000.
The men made good their escape.
They left Boswell going north and
three pos.es were organized at once
to give chase. Two posses are
moun'ed and one is In an auto. The
vault door wa. not locked and the
house, although he will maintain an men made a quirk exit from the prison
(office In the building where he can but they were unarmed and could do
the contract for furnishing the house
throughout, and the furniture will be
tlie best that money can buy. The
ihotel will be jnodern in every depart.
I ment. and a good home for the travel
ling public.
Captain Whittingtun will Like no
active part In the management of the
THREE MASKED MEN ROBBED
BANK OF EIGHT THOUSAND
DOLLARS AND ESCAPED POS
SES IN PURSUIT.
look after his private affairs.
KING ALBERT OF BELGIUM , ACCORDING TO STATEMENT OF
I
SENDS AUTOGRAPH LETTER TO'
PLAY TENNIS ON ICE
KING ALFONSO. POPE BENE
DICT AND PRESIDENT WIL80N
THE OWNER THIS MORNING 'Arrangements Being Made for the Ice
Championship.
! uriiT in rurov uiv i .V York. Nov. 22. Tenlns on Ice
with prominent players participating
and a possible Ice championship
Havre. Fraice. Nov. 12 King Al l The Whittlngton hotel w ill be open- i "!'in the next year Is planned by
bert of Belgium has sent autograph '-l for business December first, ac-! Frederic k Alexander, the Davis cup
i letters to King Alfonso of Spain. Pope 'cording to a statement of Captain jchatnp.on.
The rain of the past two days has Benedict and President Wilson on the Wlilttington this morning. Mr. Moody.
effectively put a temporary stop to i"u,,Ject of the deportation of Belgians who will manage the house, is making
farmers bringing cotton to the city, j by !e German authorities
Not much was doing on the local mar-Vlrstiems Sieole.
kets today, w ith prices remaining
about the same as yesterday, at 19..fl ,. ., .
ii .iiiu i-,iiu- iirc Mi
Picture Shows in Parks.
according preparations to take charge. While ., -A York. Nov. 22. Free motion
has contracted to take over tlie . , urp shorn In Larks are recom-
entire place, ( aptain Wlilttington s-a-1 n:l,ni by the park commission, who i
t- j tnis morning thai Mr. Moody waslSa, j;,,. -expense would be small
' curing nn mnlinv nTif lha ratiunnnl ...... . i ...., . , .
- . . ...... - - .......... (and I'll vi i i.iuunauua ii u.'I Bulls
nothing toward tlie rapture of the
bandi's.
The news was phoned to The Ard
tnorclte by A. Williams, who lives in
this city, bit who happened to be In
Boswell at tlie time tfle robbery oc
curred. Boswell Is on th Frisco, thirty
miles ea 't of Durant.
SUIT AGAINST DRAYMEN
Xt land ?0 cents. There will be Terr
Bjlittle more cotton harvested ia this """r " "'"' ougiu ,-r.n dining room and merely take;ouIJ be glven wholesome outdoor
tt I section tills season on ad- ount of i ' tne r'"1 r"r'- no uch a' :ive charge of the rooms above. -ntenaliinient during trie summer eve- carryiiis out an alleged agreement for
Violation of Anti-Trust Law Charged
In Fixing of Milk Prices.
Au-tin. Tex.. Nov. 22. The state
lias sued fourteen Austin draymen in
the dis'rii t court for alleged viola
tion of the antitrust laws In fixing
the price of milk. The state also seek
an injunction to prevent the dairymen
ananannnannana a'tiie recent rain.
1 a good time.
The Bass Furniture company has r.inz."
tlie increased pricj-.
