*r
S
1
1
VOLUME XXXVII.
PLENTY OF GRAIN
FOR LOCAL MILLS
N O S OF SUPPLIES FOUND IN
REGULAR TERRITORY KEEP
WHEELS TURNING
QUALITY OF WHEAT MAKES A
BETTER GRADE OF FLOUR
THAN USUAL
While Minneapolis millers are buying
wheat from all over the Northwest,
shipping it from as far west as the states
of Washington and Oregon and paying
as much as 50 cents a bushel freight,
New Ulm millers are securing enough
in their own territory to supply the
demand. The wheat being ground by
the Eagle Roller Mill Company as usual
is coming from their own line of elevators,
with additional supplies being purchased
from North and South Dakota and
Eastern Montana.
Grain From Four States.
"While we usually are obliged to buy
a considerable gram outside of that
taken in at our elevators, situated on the
M. & St. L. and Northwestern roads,"
said H. L. Beecher, of the Eagle Mill
company, "this year our purchases
extend over little larger territory than
usual. We are experiencing no trouble
a in getting plenty of wheat to
vi Nceep our mill running, and in filling our
orders.
"When the new crop season opened
this fall we were a little fearful that so
much of the wheat was shrunken that
we might not be able to keep the flour
-r up to our high standard, but we found,
after a little experimenting, that the
shrunken wheat mixed with the plump
berry, produces a better quality than
I ever, and that is just what we are doing
this year. This flour makes an excellent
loaf, large and firm.
"Besides a large crop in Montana,
aad of the very best quality, there was
a large amount of the 1915 stock left
over. Montana wheat is among the
best that grows anywhere/'
Minneapolis Goes to Coast.
Minneapolis, according to the Journal,
is drawing wheat from sixteen states and
three Canadian provinces to supply her
mills. Wheat brought from Washington
and other far Northwestern states, costs
50 cents a bushel for the freight, but
gain men in the Mill City, find that
4lhere is such a large variation in the
price between the Pacific Coast and
Minneapolis, that it pays to buy in that
market and pay the difference freight.
One firm in that city last week, bought
in one purchase, 95,000 bushels of
Washington bluestem wheat. Tacoma
and Seattle would ordinarily get this
wheat, but there is not enough ocean
tonnage available on the Pacific to make
it possible for the grain to move that way
for export.
Flow of Commerce Changes.
The incident is given as an illustration
of the change of the flow of commerce
across a great producing empire and
the backward turn of the traffic stream.
The wheat will come east over the Great
Northern road, far out into the state of
Washington, at a freight rate of 50
cents a bushel.
The following states are now supply
ing Minneapolis mills with grain:Minne
sota, North and South Dakota, Wiscon
sin, Montana, Idaho, Wyoming, Oregon,
'Washington, Nebraska, Kansas and
Oklahoma, and the Canadian provinces
of Manitoba, Saskatchewan and Alberta.
Barley is coming from California and
Utah, while corn is coming from Missouri
and Illinois, in addition to the states
from which the supply is usually drawn.
PURSE-SNATCHING STUNT
PULLED OFF IN NEW ULM
The first case of purse-snatching to
occur in New Ulm for some time, was
pulled off Saturday evening, when Mrs.
Pauline Vetter, 511 North Minnesota
street, was a victim, losing about $19.
As Mrs. Vetter was nearing her home
from a trip down town, about 8 o'clock,
a thief stole up behind her, grabbed the
hand bag which contained her money,
and which she was carrying, ran through
the yard of County Superintendent of
Schools R. B. Kennedy, and made his
escape. Mrs. Vetter called for help,
and a number of residents of the neigh
boyhood were soon present, but the thief
i%one. The police were notified and
'x Int search was made.
A* Junday Tony Manderfeld was arrested
*by Chief of Police John Herzog, on
suspicion of having committed the crime
and held in the county jail. Monday
evening he admitted to Chief Herzog,
Sheriff Julius and Deputy Jahnke that
he was guilty, but made the excuse that
he was drunk at the time. He is still in
jail, the officers awaiting the action of
County Attorney Frederickson, who was
expected from Springfield last night or
this morning. Manderfeld, who is about
18 years of age, is a member of an ex
cellent family here, but has been con
sidered somewhat wild and has hereto
fore caused the officers more or less
trouble.
The stolen hand-bag was found in an
alley near the scene of the robbery and
returned to the police Monday. It con
tained only a handkerchief and a 25
cent piece.
The robbery occurred less than two
blocks from the business district and was
an exceptionally bold affair for New
Ulm.
PRISONERS ESCAPE
CAUGHTAT HANSKA
ACCUSED SLEEPY EYE ROBBERS
LOCK DEPUTY SHERIFF IN
JAIL CELL.
OFFICER WAS GIVING THE MEN
SUPPER WHEN THEY TURNED
TRICK.
Deputy Sheriff Jahnke was neatly
tricked by two prisoners Wednesday
night, and they both made their escape,
but not for long, however, as both are
back behind the bars. The prisoners
not only made their escpae, but they
succeeded in locking the angry deputy
in their cell room before leaving on their
short and chilly journey.
The prisoners are Clifford Henry, 19,
and Robert Loftus, 22, accused of robbing
a store at Sleepy Eye on the night of Oc
tober 14. They were captured at their
home in Rockford, 111., and brought back
here the following Friday by Sheriff
William J. Julius. They waived grand
jury proceedings in justice court and
announced their intention of pleading
guilty and taking their sentence.
Wednesday evening Deputy Jahnke
went to give the prisoners their supper,
and as he walked around the cells to pass
the food to the men one of them complain
ed that the water faucet in the farther
corner of the room was leaking. Jahnke
went to investigate and quick as a flash
the door lock snapped the prisoners were
gone and the jailor was a prisoner in
his own jail. Mr. Jahnke immediately
put his trusty six-shooter into play and
took a pot shot at the fugitives through
the window, but without effect, except
to arouse his family who released him.
The entire surrounding country was
notified by rural telephone and a good
description of the men given.
About 11 o'clock the next day Deputy
Jahnke was notified that his birds had
been captured at Hanska and were locked
up there. He immediately drove to
that place and brought them back to
jail. They were out of jail less than 20
hours.
The prisoners, once they were back
in jail readily explained how they
planned and made their escape. While
cleaning their cells during the day they
came into possession of a piece of wire
which they cunningly placed in the lock
of the outer door to the cell room, pre
venting it from locking when the turn
key entered. With this arrangement
it was easy for them to make their es
cape when the deputy had his back
turned. Leaving the room they locked
the door and threw the key in the jail
yard where it was found the following
morning.
After making their escape the prisoners
made for the railway tracks, striking
the M. & St. L., which they followed to
Hanska, traveling nearly all night.
They supposed, however that they were
on the Northwestern line, and believed
they were at some station between New
Ulm and Mankato, expecting to jump
a freight train, which they were waiting
for when discovered by Hanska people.
The arrest at Hanska was made by
Mayor Erickson and Constable Green
holz of that place.
HOW ST. JAMES WAS NAMED.
The St. James Plaindealer has just
found out who named that town and how
it came about. General Sibley, who was
a director of the old St. Paul & Sioux
City railroad, now a part of the "Omaha"
system, was authorized to choose the
name for the new town, but he decided
on an Indian cognomen, which he him
self could not pronounce, when he came
to tell it to the president of the road.
This so angered the official, that he de
clared he would give it one that could
be remembered and immediately wrote
across the map the word, "St. James,"
and St. James it was ever after.
NEW LAND BANKS
BENEFIT FARMERS
PRACTICAL TRIAL IS TO BE
GIVEN FEDERAL RURAL
CREDIT PLAN
REGIONAL INSTITUTIONS WILL
BEGIN LOANING MONEY TO
AGRICULTURISTS
The new federal rural credit system
is about to be given practical trial.
Twelve regional land banks will be ready
to lend money to farmers soon. What
should be the attitude of Minnesota
farmers toward the new system?
The great majority of those who have
studied the new plan carefully and with
out prejudice agree that its main feat
ures are sound. It is possible that de
fects in detail may prevent its successful
operation at first, says E. Dana Durand
of the Minnesota College of Agriculture,
but defects can be corrected as soon as
experience shows what they are. It is
not for farmers or friends of farmers to
stand aside and criticise the new system
before it goes into operation. The thing
to do is to try it out.
Two Classes of Banks.
Two classes of banks, federal land
banks and joint stock land banks are
provided for by the law. If the former
succeed it is not likely that the latter will
do much. Bankers or capitalists have
no control over the federal land banks.
As soon as the farmers borrow enough
money from these banks, they will be
come, through their local associations,
the sole stockholders of the banks. It is
essentially a co-operative scheme.
If the farmers want the scheme to
succeed, they must take part in it and
the sooner the better. The banks can
not work at all unless the farmers form
local associations and apply for loans.
The land banks cannot sell any bonds
until they have taken mortgages from
farmers, since the bonds must be secured
by mortgages.
Rate to be 5 Per Cent
The first loans to farmers, of course,
will be made from the proceeds of the
capital stock subscribed by the federal
government. It is understood that the
federal farm loan board intends to lend
this money at 5 per cent, and those first
applying for loans are, therefore, sure
to get them at this rate, which is lower
than most farmers in Minnesota are now
paying. After che bonds based on these
first mortgages have been sold, the rate
of interest on future loans to farmers will
depend on the rate at which the bonds
are sold. It may be higher than 5 per
cent or even lower. If it should prove
to be higher, the first borrowers will have
gained by their promptness. If it proves
to be lower, they will not lose anything,
because the law permits them to pay up
their loans and make new ones at the
best available rate. Farmers, therefore,
who want to borrow money, or to reduce
their present rates of interest should take
advantage of the new act just as soon as
it goes into effect. This they can do
only by forming National Farm Loan
Associations.
A Groundless Fear
Some farmers have expressed a fear
that under the new plan they might
somehow be held responsible for the
debts of others. They do not see why
they should be asked to become stock
holders in the local associations and thus
indirectly the Federal Land Banks.
They are afraid that they may lose their
subscription to the stock, or even be
assessed to cover losses. There is, of
course, a conceivable element of risk to
the borrower, but the loss could not
be large and the danger of losing any
thing is so slight as to be absolutely
negligible. If, therefore, a farmer can
save appreciably in his rate of interest
by borrowing from the Federal Land
Bank, or if he feels that the plan of long
time loans with amortization is a material
advantage, he should not hesitate to be
come a borrower by reason of the in
significant risk which he takes by be
coming a stockholder.
The division of agricultural economics
of the University of Minnesota will be
glad to furnish information or assistance
to any group of farmers dersiring to
participate in the new credit system.
Union Thanksgiving services will be
held at the Friedens church at 10:30 on
Thanksgiving morning, Rev. George
Mayer will preach the sermon, with Rev.
C. Hohn of the Methodist church, Rev.
E. F. Wheeler of the Congregational, and
Rev. H. F. Schlaak of the Bethel church,
taking part in the services.
**5aKo*°
NEW ULM, BROWN COUNTY, MINNESOTA, WEDNESDAY, NOV. 22, 1916.
COMMERCIAL CLUB
FOR IMPROVEMENT
OLD DIRECTORS ARE ELECTED
TO MANAGE AFFAIRS FOR
ANOTHER YEAR
MUCH ENTHUSIASM MANIFEST.
ED|AT ANNUAL MEETING OF
ORGANIZATION
The election of a board of directors,
reports of officers, discussing plans for
improving New Ulm's many beauty
spots, including the improvement of a
bathing place in the Cottonwood river,
were features of the annual meeting of
the Commerical Club.
The directors elected were the same
as those serving last year, and were
chosen on the first ballot. They are:
G. A. Ottomeyer, Charles Vogtel, J. F.
Armstrong, F. H. Behnke, J. A. Ochs,
H. N. Somsen and A. H. Stork.
A meeting of the Board of Directors
will be held within a day or two, when it
is expected they will re-elect President
G. A. Ottomeyer and Secretary-Treasur
er W. F. Meile for another year.
Make New Ulm More Beautiful
The matter of making New Ulm the
beauty spot of Southern Minnesota was
brought up in a discussion started by H.
N. Somsen, relative to the long talked-of
improvement of the proposed bathing
place in the Cottonwood River, west of
the city, and evoked the most interest
of any part of the evening's proceedings.
Mr. Somsen started the discussion
by calling attention to the fact that a
tract of land had been purchased by
three members of the club, and was being
held until such time as the city or the
club was ready to take it over and im
prove it. He said the matter should be
begun early enough that it might be in
shape when the season opened next
spring, and that now is none too early
tpbejjin making.preparations. The work
of cleaning the river bottom, he said,
hiusx be done while the water is low,
and it would never be lower than now.
Albert Steinhauser proposed the ques
tion to be left to the board of directors
with power to act, and offered a motion
to that effect.
Would Copy From Madison.
Fred W. Johnson said he thought the
matter should be further considered than
that of merely the establishment of a
bathing pool, and could be handled
far better by some different organization
than the club, or any other commercial
body. Mr. Johnson then related the
experience of Madison, Wis., where a
plan was started a few years ago to im
prove the parks, driveways and other
beauty places about that city, starting
with small popular subscriptions amount
ing to a few hundred dollars the first year,
and reaching now in the neighborhood
of $20,000 a year in subscriptions, and
that more than $300,000 has been spent
on the work in that c*/. Mr. Johnson
said he felt sure that a similar organi
zation could be formed here, outside of
the Commercial Club and work out like
plans for New Ulm.
Mr. Johnson's talk created a most
favorable impression, and Mr. Stein
hauser changed his motion relative to the
bathing pool, to include also the con
sideration of the Madison plan by the
board of directors. The motion was
carried by a unanimous vote.
President Ottomeyer announced that
the matter of "community singing" had
been brought to his attention with a
request that it be brought before the
club.
A motion that the matter be referred
to a special committee of three, was
carried.
President Ottomeyer appointed the
following committee, who will act with
a committee of the Current News Club,
to plan a Community Singing program:
W. G. Alwin, F. H. Krook and Dr. Rieke.
The committee from the Current News
Club is composed as follows: Mrs. C. G.
Reim and Mrs. C. W. Miller.
Chairman Ochs of the Good Roads
Committee, reported that the Kuehnel
highway problem, referred to that body
at the last meeting, had been left un
touched until after election, owing to the
fact that some of the members were
unable to give the question the necessary
time, but election now being over, it
would be taken up and given the desired
attention.
Club is Growing.
Secretary-Treasurer W. H. Meile read
his annual statement which showed that
nothwithstanding a number of members
have dropped out owing, most cases,
tojtbe fact that they have left town,
there are now ten more members than
ML Ss.' ^..~v.\
4 l-qW?*B
ft
y*^^JT?s
rinrm^
when the last annual statement was
issued. A year ago the club had 161
members the present number is 171.
There were nine meetings during the
year, with an average attendance of
about thirty, the attendance ranging
from eighteen to fifty.
Some of the more important subjects
taken up at the meetings were: Taking
of the census of New Ulm a pork pack
ing plant publishing a mailing list of the
city amendments to the by-laws so as
to provide two classes of members:
active and honorary the appointment
by the mayor of a board of censors the
organization of an Ad club a central
heating plant, a white way to the depots
putting up guide posts raising the
Kuehnel road and improving all raods
leading to New Ulm enlarging and im
proving the cemetery improving and
(Continued on page 2)
TURKEY SHOOT AT
ARMORS THIS YEAR
ANNUAL AFFAIR TO BE MORE
COMFORTABLE THAN EVER
BEFORE
LARGE CROWD EXPECTED FOR
DOINGS ON NEXT SUNDAY,
NOVEMBER 26.
New Ulm marksmen will be able this
year to get their Thanksgiving turkeys
under the most favorable conditions.
Then those who do not shoot, but are
desirous of winning a deer will not be
obliged to stand around with the cold
November breezes biting their ears and
noses, for the annual turkey shoot and
deer rafle is to be held at the Armory,
next Sunday, November 26.
The affair is, as usual, for the benefit
of the financial end of the Brown County
Fair Association and promises to be more
a1 tractive than any given in the past.
Plenty Fowls Certain.
Ferdinand Crone, as in times past, has
been busy for the past week, gathering
in ih& necessary turkeysv and those who
anticipate a gala day next Sunday need
have no fear of being disappointed by
any lack of fowls for the occasion.
There will be no "Hasenpfeffer" this
year, whichmay be a slight disappoint
ment to some, but the usual rabbit hunt
was necessarily dispensed with, but most
of those who will attend will probably
be willing to forego the feast for this
season, and will not miss the slight
discrepancy for once.
The Schell Brewing Company, as is
its wont, has donated the usual supply
of deer and the raffle will be a big feature.
Those who have the "doings" in charge
feel that the attendance will be un
usually large this year, for the reason
that those who come will be more com
fortably cared for than when it is held
at the fair ground. People from twenty
five to thirty miles around New Ulm
are expected for the occasion.
Sure to Get Turkey.
Besides the usual shooting gallery
there will be other means provided for
those who do not feel themselves com
petent to test their skill against the more
expert marksmen, and everyone, pro
viding he is a good "shot" or lucky at
the wheel can carry away the coveted
turkey.
COAL SITUATION LESS
SERIOUS THAN FEARED
Duplication of orders given by panicky
dealers and consumers is believed to have
caused the recent scare that there is to be
a serious coal shortage in the Northwest,
according to the head of a wholesale
coal company at Minneapolis, who has
recently made an investigation at Duluth
and Superior. He says it was discovered
that duplicate orders had been placed
with as many as three coal companies,
by buyers who feared they might be
left out when the rush came later on.
This gave rise to the belief among whole
sale shippers that an unusually large
amount of fuel was being ordered, when
in fact it is about the same as usual.
In the meantime the Head of the Lakes
coal shippers are checking up their orders
and comparing notes, which is now about
completed. Until this has been finished
no coal is being shipped.
"The situation is not the least bit
dangerous," the Minneapolis man de
clares. "There is more coal in the
country now than last year. If the
supply is handled intelligently in this
part of the country those who need it
will have plenty. There were almost the
identical number of cars delivered to the
railroads this jear as last during the
month of October. The reported short
age is fictitious
P^I^P^^I^^^P
"ft S yiT
SERGEANT ENGLISH WRITES OF
EXPERIENCES ENCOUNTERED
ON MARCH.
Since the order was„issued to men in
uniform that they must not write to their
home newspapers, there has been but
little "first hand" information to give
New Ulm citizens concerning the boys
and their doings in Texas. Only a
personal letter once in a while gets thru
to the public and this week the Review
has such a letter for its readers from
Sergt. F. E. English of Co. A. Mr.
English describes a four days hike which
the men made. The portion of the letter
telling of the hike follows herewith:
"We left our camps at Llano Grande
at eight o'clock Wednesday morning of
the 8th. Went west through the town
of Donna to Ebenezer which was twelve
miles and arrived there at 12:45 P. M.
The day was warm, the roads dusty.
Here we pitched our dog tents then for
carrying water for dinner which we did
gladly as hungry as we all were. All
the boys soon found one of the canals
about two hundred yards from camp and
then for a good wash. It was surely
some sight to see.
After supper all being quite tired we
crawled in for a good nights rest, only
to be waked up at one o'clock to hold
down our tents as it began to rain and
blow. We were all soaked and our
blankets also, tents down and no place
to get in out of the rain. Maj. Pfaender's
tent soon became crowded. It seemed
the whole regiment tried to get in it.
To keep warm we made a big fire at the
kitchen which was only a hole in the
ground for the fire place and we began
to gather around from all over. This
was about four in the morning and still
raining. Mai. Pfaender was a father
to his batallion as he helped build fires
for alL
Orders then came to turn around and
go back to Llano Grande but after a
short time they were changed to con
tinue the trip. By this time the rain
stopped. Breakfast was soon ready
and at nine o'clock we were on our way
northward to Edenburg which was nine
miles northwest. This was Thursday.
The morning was cool and hiking was
fairly good in spite of the night's rain.
We arrived at Edenburg at one o'clock.
We set up our camp in the west part of
this town. Here we had a beautiful
place, there being about three blocks of
vacant ground.
After dinner all were free until 9:30
P. M. Most all the boys went into
town. There was a picture house there
run by Mr. Henry Klossner who is a
brother of, Mr. Jacob Klossner of New
Ulm. So of course we all went to the
show.
Down here at picture shows there is
only a high board fence around with
wooden benches to sit on and the blue
sky for a roof.
Across the road from our camp east
is the court house which is a beautiful
building and made one think of Minne
sota and home. The town is divided.
(Continued on page 2)
FARM HAND BECOMES VIOLENT.
Oscar Olson, a young farm hand em
ployed near Sleepy Eye, was examined
in Probate Judge George Ross' office late
Saturday, for his sanity. He was com
mitted to the detention hospital for
observation. The young man is said
to have been acting somewhat queerly
for nearly a month, but it was not until
Saturday morning that he became vio
lent. On that day while employed at
his usual labor he suddenly left his work,
mounted a young colt and started toward
Sleepy Eye at break-neck speed. The
farmer telephoned the police at that
place to watch out for him. When he
arrived he was taken in charge, after a
hard struggle, and placed in the city
jail. He was very violent /during the
afternoon, and was brought to this city
by Sheriff Julius.
Young Olson, who is 20 years of age,
came to this country from Sweden, with
a brother two years his senior, a couple
of years ago, one being employed a few
miles south of Sleepy Eye and Oscar
north of town. They were very quiet,
unassuming boys, and industrious. The
cause for Oscar's sudden loss of reason is
not known, but the physicians believe
that with a few weeks of care and treat
ment at the detention hospital his mind
will be restored.
^V/fi
it a
fcMjWi!/
MINNESOTA
HISTORICAL
SOCIETY
NUMBER 47
SOLDIER BOYS IN
STORM ON BORDER
NEW ULM TROOPS ARE CAUGHT
IN A REAL OLD TIME TEXAS
TWISTER.
S
1 1 &
1
4
