THE BARRE DAILY TIMES'
VOL. XX NO. 213.
BAIUIE, VERMONT; WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1916.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
BRITISH LOSE
HOSPITAL SHIP
Fifty Lives Lost and 1,106
People Saved from the
Brittanic
reported to Lave reached the region
Filliaith, about 40 miles northwest
Craiova. If General Von Falkenhay
troops have beaten it to Craiova, as
seems probable, its railway line of re
treat thui ii severed. Likewise it would
appear that the Rumanian force which
had been operating in the Orsova region
was severely imperiled, if not cut off, by
thin new Teutonic success.
Craiova before the war had a popula
tion of nearly (50,000 and was an active
center of Rumanian trade.
5 AGED MONARCH
WAS A VICTIM
OF PNEUMONIA
VON JAG0W OUT.
GREAT SHIP SUNK
BY MINE OR TORPEDO
The Brittanic Was Built by
White Star Line and Taken
Over bv the Government
London, Nov. 22. The British hospital
ship Brittanic has been sunk with a loss
of about 50 lives, sayei the British official
statement to-dav. The Brittanic was
Bunk by a mine or a torpedo yesterday
morning in the JKgean sea. There were
l.lOfl survivors, of whom 28 were in
jnred. Full particulars have not been
received.
The Brittanic was a 47,500 ton vessel
built for the White Star line. It was
taken over by the government soon after
its completion and wag the largest hos
pital ship in commission, with an equip
ment of 6,000 beds.
GERMANS RAIDED
BRITISH TRENCHES
SOUTHOFLABASSEE
German Official Statement Also Tells of
Repulse of British Attack Near
Sene on the Northern Part
of,the Somme Front.
Berlin by wireless', Nov. 22. British
trenches south of Ix, Bassce canal were
raided last night by the Germans, the
war oflice announces, and a liritisn at
tack near Serre broke down under Ger
man fire.
The capture by the Germans of t
height near Paralova, 10 miles northwest
of Monastir, was also announced.
Succeeded By Zimmerman as German
Foreign Affairs Minister.
Amsterdam, via London, Nov. 22
Gottlieb Von Jagow, the German min
ister of foreign affairs, has resigned, ac
cording to a Berlin dispatch. Hie corui
tion of his health is given, as the cause
of his resignation.
PREPARE TO LEAVE
ATHENS QUIETLY
All the Diplomatic Representatives of
the Central Powers and Turkey
Will Go To-day.
Athens, Nov. 21, via London, Nov. 22
All the diplomatic representatives of
the central powers and lurkey will leave
Athens quietly to-morrow morning in ac
cordance with the demand of Admiral
Du Fornet, commander of the allied fleet.
The admiral to-dav refused to extend
the time limit for the departure of the
diplomats. The Turkish minister is hav
ing the legation dismantled and the fur
niture packed.
UPHOLDS CHANCELLOR.
MEET STUBBORN
RESISTANCE TO THE
NORTH OF MONASTIR
Germans and Bulgarians art Holding Up
The Entente Offensive and Heavy
Fog is Also Interfering.
Paris, Nov. 22. Energetic resistance is
being offered bv the Germans and Bulga
rians on the Macedonian front north of
Monastir, the war office announces. Th
advance of the entente forces is also de
layed by a heavy fog. Five hundred more
prisoners were taken.
The German-Bulgarian forces are ac
cepting battle on a line running from
Snegovo, three miles north of Monastir,
to hill 1060 southwest of the town of
Makovo, which is 13 miles northeast of
Monastir.
RUMANIA APPEARS
TO BE HELPLESS
Austro-German Attacks are Continuing
and Counter Attacks are Being
Put Down.
Berlin by wireless, Nov. 22. The Austro-German
invasion of Rumania ia pro
ceeding unchecked, says to-day's an
nouncement by the war office. Rumanian
attacks were defeated and ground was
gained on the Rothernthurm pass road
and in the Alt valley.
RUMANIANS OUTFLANKED.
And
Town of Craiova Has Been Cap
tured By Teutons.
London, Nov. 22. The Austro-German
forces pushing eastward through south
west Rumania have captured the town
t Pro I a anl 1i T? i ma niana l n a t-a
retreating 'down the Jiul valley and at 6 8.u.rPrise' h "gain elected to
other noints from the Transvlvanian 8teer h "aft through the dangerous
Alps region apparently are in danger of
Kaiser Approves Present Methods "Of
Conducting War."
Berlin, via London, Nov. 22. Emper
or William has just taken occasion to de
clare publicly his support of Chancellor
von Bethmann-Hollwcg against attacks
upon him by his opponents at home.
A number of prominent persons in
Karlsruhe and vicinity having recently
sent the chancellor a letter condemning
he campaign of his opponents against
him and the present methods of
conducting the war, and having sent a
copy of this document to the emperor,
the latter caused the chief of the civil
cabinet to reply in the emperor's behalf
that he observed with lively satisfaction
this demonstration from Karlsruhe.
The "home army" bill, providing for a
general labor service for the men who do
not go to the front, has passed tha Bun
desrat. The ways and means committee
will assemble Thursday to consider the
measure, which will then be submitted to
the Reichstag.
DEUTSCHLAND ON
HER EASTWARD TRIP
AFTER BOLD START
Emperor Francis Joseph of
Austria - Hungary Died
Last Night in Vienna Aft
er Ten Days' Sickness,
Having First Contracted a
Cold While Walking with
King of Bavaria
TEN PER CENT INCREASE
ARCHDUKE CHARLES
FRANCIS SUCCEEDS
The Heir Apparent Was at
the Bedside of the Dying
Ruler, as Were Several
Other Members of the
Royal Family Francis
Joseph Had Ruled for 68
Years
Paris, Nov. 22 A Havas dispatch from
Madrid says the Austrian embassy has
announced officially the death of Emper
or Francis Joseph.
This is the first official announcement
of the emperor's death received.
Emperor Was in Schoenbrunn Castle.
London, Nov 22. Emperor Francis Jo
seph died last night at 9 o'clock at the
Schoenbrunn castle, according to a Ren-
er dispatch from lenna bv way of
Amsterdam.
German Submarine Left New London in
Broad Daylight and Thus Defied Al
lied Warships Supposed to Be
Watching for Her.
Watch Hill, R. I., Nov. 22. The Ger
man trading submarine Deutschland,
which started again from New London
for Bremen yestepday afternoon, passed
hre last night, moving eastward through
HloeK island sound. She was without
convoy, 10 miles off shore.
Passing Watch Hill, eastbound. on a
line with Montauk point, which forms
the tip of Long Island, to the south, the
Deutschland was on a course exactly the
reverse of that which Capt. Koenig fol
lowed in reaching New London on Nov. 1.
The submarine was headed past the
north shore of Block island, and going
toward Point Judith.
GOT AWAY CLEARLY.
Deutschland Did Better in Daylight De-
' parture from New London.
New London, Conn., Nov. 22. The Ger
man merchant submarine Deutschland,
with a $2,000,000 cargo and official mail
for Emperor William stowed in her hold.
made another start for Bremen yester
One Report Says He Died in Harness.
London, Nov. 22. Emperor Francis
Joseph practically died in the harness,
according to an Amsterdam dispatch to
the Central News. The dispatch says
the emperor arose at the usual hour
Tuesday, gave an audience to his daugh
ter and Foreign Minister Burian and it
as not till afternoon that his condition
grew worse. Jn the early evening his
temperat ure rose and the physicians real
ized that death was approaching.
It is reported in Berlin that Emperor
William will attend the funeral.
The death of the emperor caused nota
ble emotion in Vienna, says the F.x
change Telegraph company's Amsterdam
correspondent. The general public was
not aware of the serious nature of his
illness because of the non-committal
character of the bulletins. He became
feverish during the afternoon and re
tired at 7 o'clock. Being unable to sleep,
he asked that a physician be called. He
complained of pains in his throat at 9
o'clock but appeared to be more restful
a few moments later. According to the
details received, the doctors saw him
and he made a gesture, pointing toward
his throat. A second afterward he was
dead.
For 35,000 Employes of the American
Woolen Co. in New England.
Boston, Nov. 22. A 10 per cent wage
increase m all the mills of the American
Woolen Co., which employs 3,,300 hand
in New England and New York state,
was announced at the headquarters of
the company here last night. At the
same time the Arlington mills, whose big
cotton plant at Lawrem'e employs 5,000
hands, announced "a higher scale of
wages,' the amount of which was not
specified. It was believed that the new
scale would be similar to that made pub
lic Monday night by the Cotton Manu
facturing association of New Bedford,
granting their 33,000 employes a 10 per
cent raise.
All the increases in the pay of textile
operatives thus far anounced are to be
effective Dec. 4. In most instances they
mark the third advance within the calen
dar year and bring the wages to the
highest point in the history of the indus
try. Representatives of other mills had no
statement to make last night regarding
similar wage increases at their plants,
but in the past such advances have
usually been virtually uniform in north
em New Kngland mills. It was estimat
ed in textile circles that the granting of
a 10 per cent raise In all New England
mills would be an addition of more than
$10,000,000 a year the, contents of tne
par envelopes.
Franklin Y . Hobbs, pr;c.dent of the
Arlington mills, in announcing the new
scale of his company, suid :
The increase is in accordance with the
policy ot the corporation to adapt its
scalo of wages to improved conditions of
business and to keep i at least on a par
ity with the best wage scale among its
competitors in New England."
This announcement, was posted in con
spicuous places at th mills in Lawrence
na was read dv in erapir-.is as iney
eft work last night. I
The American oaten Co. is the larg
est manufacturer of woolens in the
world, the Wood mill in Lawrence alone
employing 6.0(H) operatives.
8-HOUR LAW
CALLED VOID
SUPPER-SALE SUCCESS.
Judge Hook Gives Decision,
Declaring It Unconstitutional
CASE IS HURRIED
TO SUPREME COURT
All the Railroads in Country
Are Urged to Participate
BIG WAGE INCREASE.
United
States Steel ' Corporation
nouncas Raise.
An-
End Was Due to Pneumonia.
Paris, Nov. 22. The death last night
New York, Nov. 22. The United
States Steel corporation last night an
nounced an increase of 10 per cent in the
wages of the employes of its steel and
iron companies, effective Dec. ;, nex
Wage and salary advances in other de
partments of the corporation also will be
eqjittablv adjusted, it 'was stated. In
increase affects, in all, about 200,010 em
ploves and probably adds nearly $20
000,000 to the corporation t payroll.
Ordinarily the question of wages
would not come up for consideration or
decision at this time of the year,' said
Chairman Libert H. Gary, in making th
announcement ; "but in ., consequence of
the abnormal conditions now existing, it
has wen decided to increase the wage
rates of our iron snd steel companies
about 10 -fxi -urtt. it t.e effect bout
Dec IS, A to other departments, in
creases will be equita,blv proportioned.
Another official of the corporation sait!
the action of the directors was taken
"with due regard for the higher prices
prevailing for necessaries in all parts o
the country.
It is estimated that the payroll of the
steel corporation at this time 1 between
$100,0H,0OO and $2OO,0O0,0OO, which im
plies an increase of approximately $20,
000,000 under the higher rate of pay.
Kansas City, Nov. 22. The Adamson
eight-hour law was held unconstitutional
here to-day by Judge William C. Hook
in United States district court. The de
cision was given in connection with the
injunction proceedings brought by the
receivers tor the Missouri, Oklahoma &
Gulf railroad.
Judge Hook directed the receivers to
assist the government in expediting the
case to the supreme court of the United
States for a final decision and instructed
them, through their attorneys, to invite
the representatives of every railroad ir
this country to participate in the hear
ings before supreme court. This had
been requested in the government's mo
tion to dismiss the injunction proceed
Ings, the government desiring to avoid
prolonged, unnecessary and scattered liti
gation.
It is expected that the ultimate de
cision as to whether the law will go into
operation on Jan. 1 will be handed down
before that time. -
. 10-INCH MAIN
FOR SOUTH END
MOTORIST SUES TOWN.
WILL TELL ALL.
Fugitive Therek Will Make Clean Breast
of Thefts.
Miami, Fla., Nov. 22. Edward Therek
the absconding messenger of the Nation
al Shawmut bank of Boston, stated here
of Emperor Francis Joseph of Austria "' "58h ?.hat wV'd P'K '-'l"?
...... v.. 1 ...u: .1. .v.. ..i breast of his thefts to Vice-President
r. an vaunt-, t, ft vwm vm.u nun, i .
joy just as soon as lie reacnea iosiori
this week. Therek claimed before U'nit
by a cold which the aged
monarch caught while walking in Schoen
brunn park ten days ago with the King
of Bavaria, according to a Zurich dig
patch to The Parisien. The cold de
veloped into pneumonia in the right
lung.
When it w'as realized yesterday that
his condition was serious, his daughter,
day afternoon, her dash last Friday 1 ir,.ri,Wr,.Bs Marie virie' nA ,; n,.nh
having been frustrated when she sankl.M ArMuiiil- rwi Vrn-i thn hir
a convoying tug, necessitating a return j apparent, and Joseph Frederick, were
to port for minor repairs.
iter skipper, 1'aul hoenig, changed his
tactics yesterday for instead of stealing
out to sea under the cover of darkness,
as was the case last week, he boldly
sailed down the harbor in broad daylight
and without convoy. Local mariners
being cut off.
Troops of King Ferdinand in the Jiul
valley have reached Filliash, but here
they are outflanked by the Teutonic al
lies at Craiova, and, without the aid of
a railroad to convey them eastward,
seemingly must be caught on the plains
of Wallachia in the vise of the Austro
Oermans, which is closing in on them
both from the north and the south.
Added peril to the Rumanians in this
region is noted in the continued advance
of the Teutonic allies in the Alt valley,
south of the Rothenthurm pass, where
Tetrograd admits the Rumanians are re
tiring slowly southward. An advance
eastward along the railway 25 miles to
Slatina would give the Austro-Germans
this- ininortunt railroad town anil comnel
the retreating Rumanians in the Alt ' ,ineT Willehad, the aubmersible's "
valley also to take the high roads in anihiP" indicating that the time I
endeavor to escape in the direction of
Bucharest.
CAPTURE OF CRAIOVA.
German Troops Occupied the Town Tues
day Noon.
London, Nov. 22. The German official
report concerning Craiova as received
here says the town was occupied by
German troops at noon yesterday.
The capture by General Von Falken
hayn's forces of the town of Craiova ap
parently clinches the Austro-German
hold on a large section of western Wal
lachia and probably means the cutting
off of important Rumanian forces from
their line of retreat by railroad.
Craiova lies on the main line between
Orsova and Bucharest, about 120 miles
west of the capital. The Rumanian
trmr retreating in the Jiul Taller was
iaUicj back toward this town and was steamed back.
waters of the Race, where occurred the
fatal collision in which five of the tug's
crew were drowned.
The tug Alert, of the T. A. Scott
Wrecking company, sub-agents of the
Eastern Forwarding company, trailed the
submarine half a mile to the rear. Pass
ing the Race safely, the Deutschland
turned her nose to the east and headed
for Nantucket Shoals. The Alert fol
lowed a short distance and returned to
her pier late in the afternoon.
Captain Frederick Hinsch, of the For
warding company, who was the only man
saved in the disaster of last week, was
on board the Alert. He declined to see
newspaper men.
During the forenoon there were un
usual signs of activity on the state pier
and on board the orth German JJovd
mother
for de
parture was near at hand
At 2 o'clock the Alert and the fishing
schooner Frank Beckwith went up the
harbor to the pier. Fifteen minutes
later the steel net guarding the pocket
was hauled up and the pontoon bearing
a fence 15 feet high was pulled to one
side. At 2:30 the Deutschland glided
out and proceeded down the Thames to
the mouth of the harbor.
Captain Koenig was in the conning
tower and 18 of the crew of 20 were on
deck, attired in oilers. They waved their
hands in farewell to the Willehad's crew.
One sailor was stationed at the bow with
field glasses to see that the course was
clear.
A few passing craft sounded their
whistles in salute, but the Deutschland
paid no heed. Near Eastern point, she
passed the United States cruiser Colum
bia. Here the Frank Reikwith left the
procession and went to her pier.
The Alert followed for a few miles and
summoned to his bedside-
It is not believed in Taris that the
death of the emperor will effect the war
in any w-ay. The general impression
here is that he had long been more or
less of a figurehead, signing without
reading the documents, to which his sig
nature was necessary and taking no oth
er part in affairs of state.
The New Emperor.
Vienna, Nov. 22. Archduke Charles
Francis, grandnephew of Emperor Fran
cis Joseph, became heir to the throne
of AuRtria-Hungary by the assassination
of Archduke Francis Ferdinand prior to
the outbreak of the war. He has been
in command of the Austrian armies on
various fronts during the past .two years.
Archduke Charles Francis was born on
August 17, 1837. His wife was Prince
Zita of the Bourbon house of Parma. Hi
father was the Archduke Otto, who was
the younger brother of Francis Ferdi
nand.
A MONARCH FOR 68 YEARS.
Francis Joseph's Reign Was Clouded by
Tragedies.
The death of Francis Joseph is a re
majkable climax to the long lint of trag
dedies in the Hapsburg family a list un
paralleled in any other reigning house
in Europe. He died in the midst of
the world's greatest war, which he him
self largely brought about by his deter
mination to avenge the act of assassina
tion of his heir, the Archduke Francis
Ferdinand, as the result of an alleged
Serbian conspiracy, while on a state vis
it to Bosnia on June 2S, I ! 1 4.
Francis Joseph was St5 years old at the
time of his death. He was born August
IS, lS.'iO. He was only nineteen years of
age when he ascended the throne of Aus
tria, upon the abdication of his uncle,
Ferdinand 1, December 2, 1S48, making
bis active reign extend over a period of
68 years, all but the first twenty of
which he was also Apostolic King of
Hungary. It is doubtful that if in all
(Continued on fourth page)
ed Mates Commissioner twan late yes
terday afternoon that he and his wife
were known in Boston as Mr. and Mrs,
Thatcher, and that they were married
in Los Angeles, (al., two years ago,
Both Therek and the woman with him
here were again arraigned before the
commissioner yesterday afternoon and
formally turned over to the deputy I nit
ed States marshal, who will leave here
tiHlay for Boston with them. Capt. A.
C. Armstrong, chief of the bureau of
criminal investigation of Boston, and
Harry J. Murray, superintendent of the
Boston branch of the Pinkerton agency,
arrived here yesterday and will ac
company the prisoners back.
Capt. Armstrong fully relinquished the
prisoners to the government and stated
that there would be no friction, although
he had a warrant for both Therek and
the woman's arrest.
It developed yesterday that the woman
secured $40O0 from the sale of some of
the securities in Baltimore, but nwide
from the $500 that Therek had pasted
to the bottom of. his feet the couple had
very little money.
The federal authorities are-of the be
lief that Therek has 1000 hidden some
where here, but he stoutly denied this
yesterday, claiming that the officers have
relieved him of everything he had. The
couple's two trunks in the express office
here have not as yet .been searched. The
keys to these trunks were found miss
ing from the woman's hand satchel last
night, but the jailor claims that he saw
them iii the possession ofTherek, who
was placed in a separate cell.
TO MEET AT M0NTPELIER.
Annual Meeting of Vermont Fish and
Game League Friday.
The annual meeting of the Vermont
Fish and Game league is called for Fri
day evening of this week ac the Pavilion.
It is expected that adjournment will be
made to a later date when the election of
officers anil other business will receive at
tention in connection with a sportsmen's
convention or similar function to be held
undr the auspices of the league.
The annual sportsmen s convention is
becoming an event of growing imr
tance in the minds of sportsmen and wild
life conservationists.
Charles L. Hefflon of Burlington, Plaintiff
Against Sharon.
Burlington. Nov. 22. The suit of
Charles L. Helfion of this city against
the toyn of Sharon was filed yesterday
at the office of the county clerk. Sir.
Hefflon sues to recover $1,000 and costs
for injuries to himself and his automo
bile which he claims were received in
the town of Sharon when the automo
bile which he was driving slid sidewase
off a bridge or culvert. The accident for
which Mr. Hellion seeks to recover oc
curred in July, 191.5, when he was driv
ing the car between West Hartford and
Sharon, in the town of Sharon. The
suit sets up that there was a hole at
one end of the culvert and on account of
the unsafe conditicn of the road, for
which he claims the town is responsible,
the machine slid off the culvert, there
being no rails to. guard against such an
accident. Mr. Hefflon avers that he was
pinned beneath his car and received se
vere injuries to his right shoulder and
arm. and that the machine was also dam
aged.
Philathea Class of Baptist Church Had
Large Crowd.
The Philathea class of the Baptist
church held a sale and supper in the
church parlors yesterday afternoon and
evening, which proved to be ono of the
most successful affairs ever held at the
rlUhL!:?' rb"" ft Inn Aldermen Plan Better Pro-
were served a tempting supper.
The church parlor was very attractive
in it festive array, streamers of red,
white and blue and festoons of the same,
combined with the decorations of the va
nous booths, making a pretty scene,
There were booths for fanevwork, calen
dars, home-cooked food, jellies, preserves,
etc., a candy booth, another for aprons
and still another where the parcel post
business nourished. In the smaller room
were set tables where hot or cold refresh
ments fniirht fie arvprl the nrrhwav hn
tween being hung with white paper No Action Taken On Pm
streamers in a novel manner.
Miss Bernice Clark was in charge of
the calendar booth, which was trimmed
with yellow and white, and Mrs. Quincy
Perry and Mrs. Harland Stevens presided
over the domestic booth, with its well-
filled tabic and decorations of red, white
and blue.
'1 ha a nfnn r. M. .1 nt- I , ., : , I L- in P : 1 I J , , . . , .
i.. .ui iii-Kfu 10 exiena a lu-incn v.ir
Y ... , 1 I. iJ I
lyewis ana airs. 1,, le rerry acieu am, u,. f:,.,:u rn.. j.:.,:..'
salesladies, was well patronized and lie- 7, "7 , , , - ' u"""g
si,le havinir dozens of verv attractive tchelder s meadow at the South end
aprons, of all styles and kinds, which w'as submitted at the regular meeting of
drew many purchasers, the booth itself the aldermanic board last eveninz bv the
r . i . r : . ....... 1 n
. . , ... . -i central erinont railroad, which reserves
decorated with moss sent from Sowanita, .
Fla., by Rev. G. T. Raymond for the oc- tne nht to charge a nominal rent of $5
casion." This moss, artistically draped yearly for the privilege. Like most of
over a star in the center and over the the 10-inch water mains in the city, the
upper corners of the booth, was lighted proposedouth end extension exists only
at night bv colored electric globes, which on a blueprint, but the water depart
added much to its beauty. The moss ment expects to substitute the real pipe
was a novelty to v ermonters. bewjr long, 'or the paper main sometime next snriiic,
of a pale color and more like sea weed The city attorney is to examine the ten-
than that which northerners have been laiive agreement submitted bv the rail
accustomed to look for in the moss fam-1 road's attorney before it is finally ac-
lly. icepted by the board of aldermen.
The candy booth, trimmed with red, I After broaching the subject of cheaper
white and blue, was in charge of Mrs. I power, a subject effectively introduced at
(;ienn Perry and Miss Henrietta Inglis, a special meeting of the council last
tection for the Granite
Plants There
GET RIGHT OF WAY
OVER TROTTING PARK
posea r rancnise to New
Power Company av
An agreement whereby the c'
"0
priv.
main
who carried on a brisk sale.
Mrs. Byron A. Wright, as postmistress,
disposed of parcel post packages at a
rapid rate. These were sent from all
week, the aldermen decided to postpone
further consideration of the topic until
they have something tangible to work
on, something in the form of a tentative
parts of the union bv friends of the I franchise, which the legislative commit-
church. United States flags appropriate- tee will prepare with the aid of the city
ly decorated the "postoftice." attorney. This in the beginning, for at
In a booth representing a fireplace, the heel of a brief business session, the
with a background of red and white, Mrs. aldermen transacted a small budget of
Harland Maxfield and Mrs
disposed of canned goods.
The fanev work booth, which was dee
orated in lavender and gold, was stir
rounded most of the time and there was
F. A. Church routine business with commendable dis
patch.
ital statistics revealed in a tabic sub
mitted by Health Officer Dr. J. W. Stew
art for the month of October indicated
FARMERS NOT TO BLAME
For High Cost of Living, the National
Grangt Thinks.
Washington. D. C, Noy. 22. The na
tional grange in session here yesterday
named a committee to prepare a brief
freeing the farmer of blame for the high
cost of living. The committee, appointed
after a discussion of charges that farm
ers are getting rich at the expense of the
consumers, was directed to set forth that
the farmers' own purchases cost twice
as much as a few years ago and that
profits on farm products have remained
nearly at a standstill.
Two dollar wheat, speakers declared,
ill not enrich any farmer as long as
the cost of labor and machinery eontin
ues to rise. Distribution methods in I
aree measure will be held responsible
by the committee for the high cost of
food to the consumer.
LEFT $ioo TO CAT.
Milford. N. H- Woman Sees to It That
"Skip" Is Cared For.
Manchester, N. H., Nov. 22. Among
he wills offered for probate yesterday
was that of Mrs. Kliza A. Holt of Mil
ord. who sets aside $100 for the care of
icr house cat "Skip."
Besides private bequests, Mrs. Holt left
S200 to the town ot Milford for the per
etual care of her burial lot.
The Methodist church at Hillsboro
Bridge will receive a material, sum at
he death of Adeline M. Kimball. Mrs.
Rebecca S. Hastings of Hillsboro Bridge,
in her will, leaves whatever real estate
was owned bv the late Samuel D. Hast-
ngs to Mr. Kimball. Upon her death
the property is to be sold and the money
stributed, one-half to go to relatives of
Mr. Hastings and the other half to the
Methodist church.
FUNERAL OF MRS. HOWE
Was Held at Residence of Judge Howe in
St. Johnsbury.
St. Johnsbury, Nov. 22. The funeral
f Mrs. Harland B. Howe, wife of Judge
Howe, was held at the residence yester-
y afternoon with burial in the Howe
family lot in St. Johnsbury tenter. Her
pastor. Rev. George A. Martin of Grace
ethodist church, officiated. Members
of the Caledonia county bar attended, as
id those of Grace Unity club, of which
rs. Howe was the chief organizer and
rst president. There was a large dele
gation of prominent Vermont officials
and lawyers from all parts of the state.
Rutland was represented by F. S. Piatt.
Thomas H. Browne and P. M. Meldon.
an abundance of dainty articles to tempt that there were 18 births in that period.
the money from the pocketbooks of those Nine of them, if they all mature, are
who came to buy. Hand-painted china, eligible for the presidency. The balance
crocheted and tatted articles and beau- between genders is pretty well preserved,
t if til embroidery, bags, dolls and numer- as the remaining half naturally are of tho
ous things were there in great numbers, flighty sex and some day may be women
Mrs. Harry Bradley presided at this aviators, after the. manner of Kutn Law.
booth. In October, too, there were eight cases of
The committee in charge of the supper I contagious disease, three of them measles.
were Mrs. Carl Rollins. Mrs. Alden Grear- two each of whooping cough and scarlet
son, Mrs. J. A. dimming. Mrs. Crossett, fever and one of erysipelas. Fifteen
Mrs. L. V. Jones, Mrs. F. Woodcock, Mrs. deaths reported were due to the follow-
Fred Butler, Mrs. James Grierson and ing causes: Apoplexy 1, accidental 3, ap
Mrs. Lyle Perry. " - - ponriicitis 1. cancer 3, consumption 1,
The sale will continue this afternoon I disease of the heart 1. disease of the
and evening, and instead of the supper a brain 1, erysipelas 1, hemorrhage 1, and
program consisting of readings and mil- premature birth 2. The report was ac-
sical numbers will be given, after which cepted for filing.
a general social hour will be in order. According to the report of Overseer
. J. napp of the poor department.
CRUSHED BY HIS TEAM. there was an appropriation of. $700 for
charity in September, a balance on hand
Michael A. Kelly of Rutland Went Over at the beginning of the month of $55.16.
Embankment. Disbursements amounted to 71.I0,
I leavinc a balance of $37.06. Overseer
Rutland, Nov. 22. Michael A. Kelly, a riapn's report was accepted.
truckman, of 86 East street was almost Building Inspector Ocorge M. Rand re
instantly killed when the team which he nort-d favorably on the followine anpli-
was driving went over an embankment L.tions to build' and permits were irrant-
on Sheldon place, just off Terrill street, Ld. Mns. Liwie Cook, to build a piazza
about S o'clock last evening. on Pen-in street; Peter Mathieson, to
So far as has been learned, there were ereot a dwelline house on Hale street.
no witnesses to the accident, and it is The October report, containing references
not known exactly how the affair hap- tn o minor nermita granted, was ac-
pened. Kelly was seen driving his team eptod,
on North Main street shortly before 8 Permits to install lights, etc., were
o'clock lat evening and he turned into eranted as ol lows on the favorable re-
Terril! street and Sheldon place. It is port 0f Inspector D. if. Gilbertson: P. G.
thought that in attempting to turn Pnrieelli. liffhta for Prospect street bam:
around he drove too close to the bank, ljones Bros., office lights on North Main
as the wheel tracks indicate that one Ltreet: Central Granite Co.. one stone-
wheel of the vehicle went over the em- Lned motor; N. D. Phelps Co., temporary
oanKmeni, causing me wajfon to upsei. fixtures; Smith, Wfntcomb ft Cook to.,
When found -Mr. tveiiv was pinned ne- u ci,anire location of switchboard: C. H.
neath the wagon, with the seat pressing Grander of Rartdolph. to wire for litrhts
on the body. He was badly crushed. The in park gtreet house; M. A. B. L. & P.
horse was cut and bruised. lr. F. H. Co.. to install 11 meters. The report of
Gebhardt was immediately called to the fjty Engineer Fl 0. Lee, relative to num-
scene of the accident and l ndertaker berinir houses on Orchard street was ac-
J. P. Clifford took charge of the body. cpr,ted. Herbert L. Abbey was iriven a
Mr. Kelly was about 65 years old and nprmit to move a henhouse on Willey
had lived in this city for many years. strpPt
He was a brother of Patrick Kelly, who
served on the police force here many
years ago, before Rutland was a city,
He is survived by one sister, who has
kept house for him. He also has several
nephews in the city, one of whom is t or-
Warrants were approved as follows:
Street department payToII, $285.13,
street, state highway, sewer and surface
sewer, sidewalk and health accounts;
water department payroll, $68.55; fire
department payroll. $03.21; police de-
nelius J. Kelly of 34 Kendall avenue, an Uartment payroll. $104.80: G. A. Bcmis.
a t a v i j t - ; n- . I
agent ior me v.ranu inion ira -o. I $14, gervices as janitor.
THREE-MINUTE COURT SESSION.
BADLY HURT IN FALL.
Vermont Supreme Court Heard Docket I
Read at Rutland.
DEMOCRATS REJOICED.
Woods ville and Wells River Celebrated
Victory.
Woodsville, N. H.. Nov. 22. The Dem
ocrats in Woodsville and vicinity held a
jollification last night, beginning with a
hand concert at 7 o'clock, followed by a
display of fireworks. At 7:30 o'clock a
parade, lieaded by the band, marched to
Well River and return, after which a
program was rendered in the opera house
bv Frank O. French of St. Johnsburv.
Tickets will go on sale to-n!ght at
Curaniintrs 4 Lewis' for 'Common Clav,"
tb big dramatic production Coming to 'cottx-dian and monologist, assisted by a
tkt Barre opera brQe next Sairdajr. loca male quartet.
Rutland, Nov. 22. The special Novem
ber term of the Vermont supreme court
which opened in this city yesterday last
ed just three minutes. In this brief pe
riod the judges filed into the county
court room, Rev. Joseph Reynolds offered
praver. Sheriff Knoa c. rish made
proclamation. Clerk George N. Harman
called the docket and Mr. Fish adjourned
the term on the order of Judge Ixveland
Munson of Manchester, who presided.
The docket contained a single case, in
re estate of W. R. Morgan. H. D. Fill
more, administrator for the estate oft
Mason C. Morgan, claimant. Fanny T.
Morgan, administratrix for the estate of
William R. Morgan, apt., a Bennington
county prolate appeal. The case was
continued until the general term.
Judge John H. Watson of Montpelier
was absent, owing to slight illness. Judge
Munson, Judge Seneca Haselton of Bur
lington, Judge George M. Powers of Mor
risville and .ludge William H. Taylor of
Hard wick being on the bench.
John Turner of Merchant Street Is in a
Critical Condition.
John Turner, a stonecutter living at
175 Merchant street, is in a critical con
dition at his home as the result of a fall
which he sustained while clearing snow
from a piazza roof. The accident oc-
tj,e curred as the man started to step onto a
piece of unsound Ice. Losing nis Daiance,
he fell from the roof to the ground, a
distance of nearly 15 feet, striking on
the sharp edge of a sidewalk leading to
the front door of the house. He retained
consciousness and was removed to the.
house at once. Dr. J. A. Wark was
called and from the outset it was seen
that the man had been seriously injured.
Latterly a council of doctors was held to
determine the course that should be fol
lowed in Turner s case. It is said that
he is unable to move his body and that
he retains control only of the lower
limb and arms. It is feared that the
spinal column is affected.
COUPLE SENT TO JAIL.
VETERAN THOUGH ONLY 66.
George Lucia, Richmond Contractor, Died
Tuesday.
Richmond. Nov. 22. George Lucia, the
well known contractor, and for 15 years
a resident of Richmond, died yesterday
afternoon at 4:30 o'clock of pneumonia
after an illness of not quite a week. He
was 66 vears of age. He was a veteran
of the Civil war. Besi.ies his wife, who
was Nellie Atberton. he leaves a son.
Henry Lucia of thi pUee. and a daugh
ter, Mrs. O'Brien of Burlington.
For Stealing Pocketbook in a Bellows
Falls Store.
Bellows Falls, Nov. 22. Mr. and Mrs.
1l,n V. Burn-hard, aired and "J4 re-
spectivclv, were .sentenced yesterday t
is 3 days in the house of correction at
Hut land by Judge T. E. O'Brien, having
pleaded guilty of stealing a pocketbook
containing $S.7I, the property of Gcorgs
l',rowe.
The pocketbook was left in a local
store Monday evening, and the couple
tiMik it when they ent out. They claim
enJeDce ia buncook, N. H.
