"PleasureBcomes through toil
and not by indulgence and indo
lence RuskW'
"Go often to the house of thy
friend, for weeds choke up thcuiv
ews mm
used path' Scandinavian Edda,
VOL. XXX
NO.
MOIUUSVILLE, VEIUIONT, WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 22,11)16.
$1.2 A YEAR
1A I
iti.
en
TURKEY DtfR
THANKSGIVING titf
SO CENTS
AT DEPOT RESTAURANT
GO TO EDMUNDS'
Tor Victrolas and
Victrola Records
H. J. EDMUNDS,
Optometrist and Jeweler,
JMorrisville, Near Depot, Vermont
SEE H ERE
Big demaud for Old Iron and All Kinds
of Junk. Bring it to Depot and get the
Highest Cash Price.
OSCAR KAHN
Morrisville's Original Jnnk Man
Telephone, 25-5. Lake Street, Morrisville Vt.
THE ECONOMY STORE
Special for Saturday, a Mark-Down
of Sweaters and Shirt Waists.
New line of Ladies' Underwear, No
tions, etc.
Onr line of Christmas Goods will con
4 ain useful Gift Goods and was selected
carefully with a money-saving view.
MRS. 0. M. TAYLOR
CJhampeau Block, Morrisville, Vermont
BUSINESS NOTICES.
Wanted. Cook for lumber camp and a few
good Men. C. J. & r . U. Hurt, stowe, vt.
C( "The Smell of Print- 8
ff er's Ink Is Music to 11
J My Ears," Says the ft
)) Successful Merchant, (v
11 Mixed Metaphor, but 7f
Good From an Ad. $
I( Standpoint. ))
. For Sale Two Houses in Hyde Park Vil
lage; also, small farm, 75 acres.
Box 76, Hyde Park, Vt.
Wanted. Fonr Table Girls for the Decern.
ber 1 erm of Court.
C. E. Saverv, Hyde Park Iun
For Sale. One Second-hand Remington
Typewriter. Price, $15.00.
H. Waitb & Son, Morrisville.
Cash Paid. Highest Cash Price paid for
Calves, Cheap Cows, UulUand Hogs.
Tel.124-31 John Miner, Kvde Park.
Lost: Deposit Book No. 12038 issued by the
Lamoille County Savings Bank & Trust Co., De
cember 31, 1913. Finder will please return dook
to the Bnk or to the owner.
Magazines and Periodicals. Special
Clubbine Offer for any combination. See us be
fore making up your order.
H. J. Edmunds, Morrisville,
For Salb. One pair Traverse Sleds, 1 Lum
ber Wagon, 1 Buggy Wagon, 1 Sleigh, 1 Driving
Harness, 1 Work Harness, 2 Buffalo Robes and
Blankets. C. D. Oakes. Johnson,
Car Owners, Attention. We are prepared
to Paint, Overhaul and Store your Car for the
winter. Prices right ana worK guaranteen.
Hyde Park Garage
Strayed. From my mountain pasture, two
2-) ear-old Heifeis, with hole punched in right ear,
Anyone having such in nis possession, piease noit
ty NORTON ). fuNls, It u. z, nyae rarm
Notice. Having sold my farm, I offer for sale
mv nice pair ot young Bay Horses; 3 i.oits: 1
and 3 years old; I Grand Gold Coin Range in
good repair; Also, all Household Furniture
A. F. Rogers, Eden,
Notice. As we expect to be in California for
the winter, we have arranged with ri. wane a
Son to handle our DeLaval Separator bHsiness
during our absence. All repairs or new machines
can be had ot th;m. C. r. smith, Momsvuie
For Sale. One Glenwood Coal Parlor Heat
er. Mattreses. finest quality black cur.ed hair
nerfect condition: an assortment of Beds, Bed-
uine. Chairs. Crockery, Kitchen Ware, etc;
Winchester Rifle, ic-Special; 1 Couch. Most tea.-
sonable prices. One Tenment, with bath, to rent.
W. F. Benson, Morrisville..
W. G. T. U. ,
At the regular meeting of the W. R. C
next Monday evening the quilt, which
has been sold on tickets, will be drawn.
At 8:30 an intermission will be called
when a short program will be given and
the winner announced. All holding tick
ets are requested to be present. Two
badges, those ol the guard and assistant
euard. have been missing tor some time.
Will the persons Having them please re
turn them at this time. . "
AT SALEEBY'S
Values That CaBnenot Excelled
We consider that the values we are gizing
an Women's Suits and Coats, are the most
that can be given.
Judging from the enthusiasm of womon
who have been to other stores in their inspec
tion of Suits and Coats and finally bought their
garments here, makes us stronger in our belief
. that we do have the largest assortment and
biggest values in Women's Suits and Coats
in this vicinity.
Hundreds of Women's, Mis.es and Junior's Suits and
Coats in the newest fabrics, colors and styles from which you
an make your choosing.
Suits from S IO tO S35-
Coats from $5 to $30, including the Seal Plush
Coats.
Our styles and sizes will fit any size woman from 14 to
The newest styles and best values in Fur Scarfs and
jMuffs.
Men's Style-Craft Overcoats
The newest models, finest materials and best workman
ship that your money will buy are offered here at Saleeby's
t SI2.50, $15, SI7.50 and S20.
Great assortment and the same materials
and values as last year in Mackinaws, Sweat
ers, Underwear, Hosiery, Gloves and Mittens,
Women's Wool Scarfs and Cap Sets, Night
JRobes and Bed Blankets.
Nothing Can be Gained by Waiting,
LieeL Mem:
A. J. SALEEBY
.the store that.saves YOU MONEY."
JOHNSON, jt VERMONT
MORRISVILLE
Mra. Permella Boynton hat been under
the doctor's care the past week.
F. C. Peck is in charge of the freight
depot during the absence of P. A. Hovey,
The condition of L. M. Mayott, who
has been quite poorly of late, is improv
in.
Martin D. Wilkins of Winooski, a for
mer resident, was a visitor in town last
week.
Miss Minnie Bliss has been at home
several days on account of the prevailing
distemper.
George Carter of Nicholville, N. Y.,
former resident has been spending a few
days in town.
, W. H. Towne went to Hardwick Mon
day, where he has a two weeks' job of
mason work.
Mrs. Morris Greene is a guest of her
parents, Dr. and Mrs. T. A. Flandreau,
In Washington, D. C.
Miss Hazel DeLong of Plattsburg, N.
Y., is visiting the homes of W. L. Durgan
and Fred V. Durgan.
Harrison Hern and Christopher New
ton of Burlington are at John Jones'
during the deer season.
Mrs. C. S. Edwards left Monday for
Boston to visit her sister, Mrs. A. H.
Houston, and mother, Mrs. Delia Bar
rows.
Mrs M. A. Miner and children of Roch
ester, N. Y., came last Friday evening to
visit her parents, Mr, and Mrs. Louis
LaRock.
Mrs. 0. N. Flanders and son, Oliver,
of Boston are guests of her parents, Mr,
and Mrs. P. J. Liberty and her brother,
Lewis Liberty, and family.
Miss Kate Carleton, who has been
spending some time with relatives here,
went to Wells River Saturday, where
she is attending a case, as trained nurse.
Miss Mary Moody, who has spent some
time with her niece, Mrs. C. M.Obapin
of Boston, came Thursday evening for a
stay at the home of her sister, Mrs. C. H.
Slocum. , 1
i
Mrs. Anna Jones and son, Walter, wenl I
Monday to Worcester, Mass., for twal
weeks at the home of her sister, Mrs!
Walter Grtmt.- and her mother. , Mrs.s.
Flora Doty.
Jay Gamblin, who is employed on a
railroad at Montreal, and who was a
guest a few days of his parents, Mr. and
Mrs. S. M. Gamblin, returned to his
work Saturday.
Hon. and Mrs. Clement F. Smith left
Monday evening for an extended western
trip. Miss Frances Smith, who visited
them over Sunday, returned Monday to
her studies at Montpelier Seminary.
Morrisville friends have received news
of the birth on Nov. 8, of a son, ArbaMax
well, to Mr. and Mrs. Leonard R. Nor
ton of Fort Worth, Texas. Mr. Norton
is a sen of Mr. and Mrs. George Norton
of Richmond street.
Miss Orace lyndall, who teaches in
Greensboro, was in town last Friday
and Saturday, coming to attend the
Teachers' Convention. She returned Sun
day and was accompanied to Hardwick
by Mrs. P. A. Wakefield and son.
The ten Ten parties to be given by the
W. B. C. are well under way. Those
who have already entertained are Mes
dames Clara Bradley Niles, Ida A. L
To wne, Hannah Taylor, Helen Towne,
Olive Gilbert, Lizzie Fisher, and Misses
Glee and Lula Towne.
Mrs. W. B. Sommerville of New York
City came last Friday for a visit with
her daughter and husband, Mr. and Mrs
Raymond II. Hatch at the Susanna
White cottage at Samoset. Mr. Hatch
hat been in Eden with a party of deer
hunters the past week.
A notabiy prompt settlement was
made by the Union Mutual and Vermont
Fire Insurance Companies of Montpelier,
on the losses at the recent fire at the
Alamo Daity Farm. The fire was Friday
and their representatives arrived Satur
day morning and a settlement was made
by noon of that day.
A letter received in Morrisville recently
from Harold Burnett, formerly order
clerk in the Munson store, states that he
is now in the English army doing service
in the European war. ine letter wai
written October 28 and at tbat time he
was in a hospital, suffering from a
wound, received in his shoulder.
Interesting Teachers' Meeting
There was an attendance of about 130
at the annual teachers', meeting, held at
Peoples Academy in Morrisville last Frr
day. The convention was called to or
der at 10 a. m. by Principal Simpson of
Hyde Park, President of the association,
and the program was carried out as
printed. The addresses in the forenoon,
"Our Professional Opportunities," by
Bessie Bacon Goodrich, Prin. of Johnson
Normal school, and "My Idea of a Suc
cessful Teacher," by Dr. Hillegas, were
especially interesting. Folio wing achick-
en pie dinner at the Universalist church,
the afternoon session opened with a con
ference of Rural Teachers by Supt. Howe,
woo was followed with interesting papers
by Supt. Crosby, Mrs. Martha Baker of
Hyde Park, and Mrs. Florence Tinker of
Hardwick Center. A conference of Pri
mary teachers was opened by Miss Susie
Bigelow of Stowe; topic, 'The Develop
ment ot Reading." The Elementary
teachers conference, Mrs. Harriet M. Ide,
chairman, considered "The Problem of
the Retarded Pupil." This was followed
bi an address of "The Junior High School"
by Prin. W. H. Douglass of Burlington.
Prin. Sears had charge of the Highschool
Teachers conference, the topic being
"Certain Problems iu Co-o.rdination.
Dr. Hillegas conducted a conference for
Superintendents and Directors, Miss Ella
M. Brownell of St. Johnsbury gave an
address on " Music in the Rural School
and Community," and the program was
fittingly closed bv I. O Smart, D D,
pastor of college street church, Burling
ton, who gave his excellent address, "A
Simple Reader and His Shakespeare."
The musical numbers by the P. A. Or
chestra and the P. A. Girl's Glee Club
were much enjoyed.
At the business meeting the following
officers were elected: Pres.. Georee A.
Burnham, Stowe; Vice Pres., Supt. C. L.
Cowles, Craftsbury; Sec'y and Treas.
Mrs. H. M. Ide, Morrisville; Executive
committee, Miss Bessie B. Goodrich, C.
D. Howe and Miss Marv Tvndall.
THE EARLE bJO R E
Ladies' House Gowns
We meglad to announce that we have receiverl our usual
large assort ment of the ce'ebrated "Ideal" House Dresses. It is a
good dress with full skirts, well made, and made to fit. There are
none better.
Long Coats For Babies"
This assortment is made uo from Bedford Welts, lined with
white outing and come in the popular prices.
Children's Bath Robes
We are showing a new line of Children's Bath Robes, made "
up from the heavy blankets and in an assortment of colors. Very
attractive.
LaResista Corsets
Another new invoice of these famous corsets. It is one of the
best selling corsets we have ever carried, and there is a reason for it.
Our Ten Can! Window Weask your inspection of our
UUI IUI Uwlli VflllUUH ten cent window. We show
a few of our large stock of articles that sell for a dime. The amount
is limited this season, for the reason that many articles, usually to
be found in this line, cannot be had, as they come from abroad. But
we have a great showing. Just come in and see for yourself.
GF0RGE F. EARLE
iViornsvJIle,
Vermont
Suffrage Study Club
Yesterday afternoon, Mrs. Houston of
New York, a national organizer, and
Mits Scofield of Darlington addressed a
meeting of ladies at the school building
on equal suffrage. An organization was
perfected for the study of this great
question, the following officers elected:
Piesident.Mrs. H. W.Ide; Vice President,
Mrs. J. T. Sears; Sec'y, Mrs. II. L. Stev.
ens; iTeas., Mrs. b. W. Gates, There
was a good attendance of ladies at the
meeting.
Cong'l Brotherhood Meeting
The first meeting of the Congregation
al Brotherhood, held last evening at the
church parlors, was attended bv up
wards of fifty men of the church and
proved an enthusiastic gathering. A so
cial half hour and reception held in the
pariors was louowea Dy an oyster sup
per in the vestrv, after which President
Howe introduced Rev. L. A. Edwards of
the Congregational church of Newport,
a classmate of Rev. Mr. Baker, whogave
a strong, forceful and helplul address on
"The Church in the Community", point
ing out the responsibilities and duties of
churchmen of today in a manner that
held the closest attention of his hearers.
Mr. Edwards is an earnest, eloquent
speaker and this large gathering of Mor
risville men were glad of the opportunity
of meeting and listening to him.
Interesting remarks were also made by
Rev. W. E. Baker and Mr. Howe, who
referred to the work of the Brotherhood.
Mr. Baker spoke of the increased interest
in church and Sunday school work and
all members of the Brotherhood are
urged to enter the Brotherhood class in
Sunday school, taught by Prin. Sears,
which had an attendance of eigteen last
Sunday.
Harmony Pomona Grange
The next meeting of Harmony Pomona
Grange will be held In Morrisville on
Wednesday, December 6. The fifth de
gree will be worked in the forenoon and
election of officers will occur in the after
noon. Lamoille Grange
The Grange will hold its regular meet- j
ing this week Friday evening. The pro
gram, containing numbers appropriate
to the Thanksgiving season, is as fol
io ws: Song, choir; paper, The True Spirit j
of Thanksgiving, Mrs. L. S. Gile; roll
call, school day reminiscences; selected
reading, subject pertaining to Thanks
giving, Mrs. II. T. Kellogg; song, quar
tet; Thanksgiving and Colonial Days,
Miss Oella Thompson; Grange Journal,
Mrs. Mudgett and Mrs. Hollis; discussion
tor farmers and farmers' wives, "What
has the American farmer to be thankful
for?"
HYDE PARK
Fine weather is this.
Dr. Wakefield of Hardwick was in
town yesterday.
Mrs. Ethel Holbrook was a visitor in
Burlington Monday.
A. B. Collins has been spending some
time with relatives in Barre.
L. J. Desautels and bride of Burlington
ars spending a few days in town. '.
Clyde Brown is clerking in Foss' store
while the head clerk is out after a deer.
Swafford's splendid show is here three
nights Thursday, Friday and Saturday
ot this week.-
Miss Blond Seymour is spending a few
days in town LefoTe going to Washing,
ton to resume work there.
Senator Pag? and daughter have left
Atlantic City and- tc-t Washington, ,
The Senator continues to improve in
health.
A meeting to organize a branch of the
American Red Cross will be held with
Mrs. Hamlin on Tuesday, Nov. 28. at 3
p. m. Officers will be chosen and plans
made so that actual work may be begun
as soon as possible.
Capt.Waite is expected home Monday,
There will be a special meeting of the
Cemetery Association Thursday, Nov'r
23, at 3 p. m., at the home ot Mrs. H. A.
Noyes. All members are requested to be
present.
Lieut. Gov.-elect Hulburd is wearing
another broad smile just now. He is a
grandpa, a son having been born to Mr,
and Mrs. Roy Hamlin (his youngest
daughter) at Springfield, Mass., Tues
day morning.
The marriage of John Herrick and Miss
Doris DeNio took place at 4 o'clock this
afternoon at the home of the bride's par
ents, Mr. and Mrs. Preston T. DeNio.
The matron of honor was Mrs. Fred
Campbell; the bridesmaids were Miss
Bertha Herrick, Miss Ruth Bullard and
Miss Marjorie Hulburd; the best man
was Roscoe Herrick ; the ushers were Guy
were Dorothy Strong and Hilda Stevens; ,
the ring bearer was Wayne Campbell.
Miss Frances Noble played the wedding
march and Rev. Y. R. Hamlin performed
the double ring ceremony. The bride was
h.nminolv nrrved in well, a full and
complete report of the event will be given
next week.
OPERA HOUSE HYDE PARK
3 NIGHTS
STARTING
THURSDAY
it . An
, nr. u
THE
"Swafford Players"
WITH
CORINXE CARPENTER
IN A SERIES OF MODERN PLAYS
5 BIG VAUDEVILLE ACTS 5
Thurs. "m
Evng., 1
i!i;n'
i
he finis
EVERYTHING NEW BUT THE NAME
The Biggest and Best Show Traveling For The Money.
NEW PLAYS NEW SPECIALTIES NEW PEOPLE
Entire Change of Plays and Vaudeville at Each Performance.
Prices, 13 25 and 35
Seats on Ssle at Usual Place.
The Swafford Players"
which will fill a three nights engagemen t
at the opera house Hyde Park starting
on Thursday, Nov 23, comes well recom
mended by our sister cities. The com
pany is presenting up to the minute plays.
interspersed with high class vaudeville, j
The personal of the company embraces
the best dramatic artists selected for
their well known ability, and offers a
pleasing evenings entertainment calcu
lated to please all classes. There will be
special matinee given on Saturday.
The sats will be on sale at usual place.
Popular prices will prevail.
The attention of ladies interested in
air goods is called to the advertisement
of Mrs. Stella Fulsom on page 2 ol this
paper.
mir
) ill lllll
I V lliixil wa vim
11 HYDE
PARK
rcicticl Economy
SAVE YOUR DISCOUN V and you will be
surpiWed at tJie number of articles you will
get FREE. We are giving away artioles to
our old customers every day and explaining
our method to new customers. Come in and
let us explain to you. It will psy you great.
WARNER CORSETS
The kind of Comet that In gurnteed; price
50c, $1.00 and $1.50. Our 50j Corset w as
good you have paid H 00 f..r. Hnveyou
heard about our TOQUE !E TS t Com- in
and see them before you buy. Lsnies' Fin
Delette SkirU at 25c, 20c aid 60c Nithi
Kob f w ti-n id woman at oiks an.1 $1 00 are extra good value LdiIc at t-m. :
UNION SUITS fi00 bnvs a floe Worsted Union Suit for men. Weals""
"era ! 1U ud 1.50. Uolon Suit. Blouse, Jersey lilova. Gauntlets nd
Knw lnror Knickers for boys are am 70 2 our new arrivals. Let the boys see if eta
OVERSHOES just in! Can we help von with tnt Thanksgiving Dinne-r e
V1d,,m."5"ITiV we shall have Honey, Fus Dte, Nuts, Celery, Ohfes. Gr.pes,
Jelly, Bnms, Oranges, Cranberries Sealsliipt Oysters aud Oyter io balk.
Itarsain Day Specials, Saturday, Xov. 25th, Only :
One lb. Victor 35c Coffee 29c; 3 pkgs Cream C rn Siarch 25e; 2 p Eiastie Ir iog
Maicti 17c; 2 cans baltnou 25c; None Such Mince Meat 8c pkge, Cll and is.
