First
Maui County Fair!
Nov. 30, Dec. 1 and 2
Boost The
Maui County Fair
VOLUME XXIII.
WAILUKU, MAUI CO., HAWAII. FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1916.
NUMBER 32
Boat Is Nearly
Sunk At Lahaina
Returning Visitors To Hilo Have Nar
row Escape Are Crashed Against
Concrete Pier Shock And Scrat
ches Result
Another tragedy at Lahaina land
ing, which for a moment portended
a much more serious one than that of
over a year ago, was averted simply
by good .fortune on last Monday eve
ning when one of the landing boats of
the Mauna Kea was smashed against
a concrete pier of the wharf. Within
less than a hundred feet of the wharf,
the landing boat was picked up by a
huge breaker and carried at a speed
of twenty miles an hour agninst the
wharf pier.
For some almost unaccountable
reason, the pier failed to smash the
boat to pieces and after a few mom
ents hard work it was righted and
brought to the landing, with the In
juries to the passengers confined to
shock and a few bruises. Just before
the boat struck the landing the for
ward oarsman dove from the boat, but
he managed to swim ashore.
As the boat crashed into the pier
all the passengers were thrown upon
the bottom of the boat, but none were
forced overboard. The wave as It
receded from the wharf also carried
the boat backward to where the oars
men were able to gain control of it.
If the boat had not struck the pier
it would have forced into the dark and
swirling waters under the wharf and
probably swamped, where many of
the twenty passengers would almost
certainly have been drowned.
Opinion differs as to whether
the boat steerman, when he
saw the danger the boat was in,
deliberately guided the boat against
the pier to prevent it from going be
neath the wharf. The majority of the
witnesses of the accident, however,
credit the steersman with saving the
boat from plunging into another boat
loaded with passengers which was
leading.
The first boat was also caught by a
huge wave, but having a clear way at
the landing the crew were able to
bring it safely to Its destination.
While first boat was nearing the
landing the second boat was caught by
the waves and In order to avoid smash
ing into the first boat the second had
to be guided away from the landing.
If the two boats had smashed to
gether both would have been capsized,
it is said.
At the anchorage where the Mauna
Kea lay the sea was very smooth and
it was only as the boats neared the
shore that the big breakers were en
countered. Blame is attached to the
crew of the second boat for riding the
boat in on the surf Instead of holding
It back with their oars. The jumping
overboard of the forward oarsman is
also severely critislzed by some of the
passengers.
The excitement on the wharf,
where there was a great crowd wait
ing for the return of friends from the
civic convention and the Hawaii fair,
was great after the boat smashed in
to the pier, as it was a few moments
before it was known whether the boat
had been stoved in, or was still in a
condition to be brought alongside the
Among those in the second boat
were. Mr. and Mrs. W. L. West, W. E.
Shaw of Honolulu and Mrs. William
Lennox of Hana. West was bruised
just below the knees and Shaw receiv
ed a cut on his face from the accident.
The ladles escaped injury, but suffer
ed slightly from shock, as did all the
women passengers in the boat.
Lahaina Guard
Given A Piano
Militia Companies Of That Town Are
Planning Weekly Social Night
Basket Ball Starts Soon Other
Notes Of Activity
The guardsmen of the Second Bat
talion, stationed at Lahaina, are the
.'fraud possessors of an Emerson-Ang-elus
piano. Sunday a petition, asking
aid of the people of Lahaina, was put
in circulation and in twenty-four
hours the public responded so gener
ously that the amount required was
practically doubled. Regardless of
nationalltlty, the public was more than
magnanimous in its response.
The local companies are each plan
ing a weekly social night at the Arm
ory. The Second Battalion Indoor Base
ball League starts its schedule of
weekly games on Saturday, October
7th.
Company "PVtati.oned at Puu Ko
1U, has completed ihej swearing in of
the enlisted men undet the new Feder.
al oath. ' '
As the members of the Pioneer Mill
Company's THig-oi-War Team, are not
entirely satisfied with their recent de
feat, at the HarvestCelebration, the
Company "K" Team has agreed to take
them on for another contest at the Ar.
mory in the near futare.
i
t
i -
Delegate Returns
With Young Bride
Contractor Foss Is Married To Popu
lar Hilo Girl While At
Civic Convention
Contractor J. C. Foss, Jr., who went
to Hilo as one of the civic convention
delegates, turned the latter part of his
trip into a honeymoon and wedding '
trip, as he was married a week ago j
last Thursday evening to Miss Adeline
Fernandez of the Crescent City. The !
bride is a daughter of Mr. and Mrs. i
David Hurst of Hilo, and was during '
her younger girlhood days a resident j
of Kahulul for a number of years. She I
still has many acquaintances and '
friends on Maul.
The wedding ceremony was perform
ed at the home of the bride's parents,
where a reception was afterwards held
at which there were nearly 100 guests.
The newly married couple returned to
Maui last Saturday night and will live
in the Foss home in Wailuku.
Pupuhi Warrant
Is Withdrawn
Court On Advice Of County Attorney
Takes Action Which Will Save Ho
nolulu Land Dealer From Arrest I
Not Implicated, It Is Said
The warrant of arrest for Sam Pu
puhi, the Honolulu land dealer, who
was charged with being implicated in
an alleged land fraud by which Dr.
Raymond was said to have been bilked
last week, has been withdrawn, in ac
cordance with action taken in the
district court yesterday morning. Dr.
Raymond, who swore to the warrant,
states that it was erroneous to have it
appear that Pupuhi was implicated.
In withdrawing the warrant of ar
rest. County Attorney Bevins, with Dr.
Raymond and Sheriff Crowell present,
appeared in court and made the .fol
lowing statement:
"In the case of Sam Pupuhi, W. E.
K.Maikai and M.Mahiai, the warrantof
arrest was issued on 21st day of Sept
ember. Since the filing of complaint
and issuance of warrant, it has been
discovered that the only evidence in
the hands of the prosecution against
defendants, and the county attorney
instructed the Sheriff not to serve the
warrant on the defendant Sam Pupuhi,
pending further investigation. At this
time, I will ask that the proceedings
be discontinued so far as Sam Pupuhi
as is concerned, and ask that Sheriff
be instructed not to serve warrant on
Sam Pupuhi.
Judge McKay, then said: "The
Court, upon the showing made by the
county attorney or prosecuting officer
in this case, will grant the request
made and instruct sheriff not to serve
warrant upon Sam Pupuhi, the war
rant now being in the hands of the
court returned as unserved in the case
of Sam Pupuhi."
W. E. K. Maikal and H. Mahiai were
arrested last week. Their preliminary
hearing has been passed until October
12.
Mooring Placed
In Hana Bay
Inner and outer mooring, strong
enough to hold securely the largest
vessels which can enter that port,
have been laid at Hana under the sup
ervision of Capt. John R. Macaui'ay,
territorial pilot.
The entire set of mooring, which
were place there primarily for the
safety of the Matson power schooners
R. P. Rithet and Annie Johnson,
weigh more than 30 tons and Is
stronger than required for vessels
usually calling there. The moorings
are big 'enough to hold safely ves
sels as large as the Matson steamers
Lurline and Manoa, In all weathers.
There are two of the moorings in
the harbor itself, one for stern lines
of the ship and the other for bow
lines. Each mooring buoy is held in
place by two large anchors and chains
and the shackles and pins were hot
clinched.
For the further protection of ships
in Hana harbor needing to breast over
or swing around, a three-Inch pin, im
bedded in solid rock a depth of 2 feet
4 inches, has been driven on land. To
this Is attacked 10 feet of 2V4-inch
chain, with a ring in which a line
may be made fast from ship to shore.
Th'e, with the mooring buoys, gives
excess strength to make any vessel
secure when even the stormest
weather prevails.
Capt. Macaulay was assisted in lay
Ing the outer mooring by Capt. R. Wil
liamson of the Inter-Island steamer
Kaiulanl. Plantation labor was se
cured to put In the inner mooring set.
The moorings are independent of those
to which Inter-Island steamers tie up.
Fair Men Learn
Much In Hilo
Hawaii Exhibition Of Great Value To
Manager Cameron- Parker Ranch
Exhibit And Others Are To Be
Brought To Wailuku
Imbued with new ideas and Inform
ed as to the details of county fair
management, F. B. Cameron, the man
ager of the Maul County Fair, has ro.
turned from Hilo confident that Maul
will be able to make its first county
show almost the equal, if not better
than the second Hawaii county fair.
Nor does his confidence detract from
the excellence of the county fair on
Hawaii for every visitor speaks of It!
with the highest of compliments. Burl
the Hawaii county fair was so good
that it sets a high standard for the
Maui fair promoters to try and equal I
or excell. While Manager 'Cameron j
was way he went into the practical
side of fair management and he return.
ed with a fair comprehension of the
rates that should be charged for ad
missions and the square foot charge
for exhibits, with a hundred other
minor details added.
Perhaps, the most Important thing
accomplished by President Wads,
worth of the Chamber of Commerce
and Manager Cameron in visiting the
Hawaii fair was done in interesting
exhibitors in the coming Maui show.
Both these men were. practically as
sured that the Parker ranch exhibit
at the Hawaii fair would also be shown
here, even though the expense atad
trouble of transportation to Maul will
be great.
With the Parker ranch Btock on ex
hibition here, the hope of having as
good a fair as Hawaii 1b not an Idle
dream. This exhibit is one of great
practical value to stock raisers and one
of intense interest to everyone who
enjoys seeing fine livestock.
Other exhibits shown at Hilo were
those of the Kona Coffee Co. .and the
Suerry Flour Co. . Both had large and
instructive exhibits and the Maul men
were told that the exhibits would' be
brought to Wailuku for exhibition Id
November and December.
The Advertiser and the 9lr-Bulletin
of Honolulu, both of which had Hilo
booths and exhibits, also intend to
have Maui fair exhibits.
Plans for the securing of exhibits
from all over this countyare still meet.
ing with success, the near approach of
the fair dates arousing greater inter
est as every day passes. Now that the
trouble of housing has been settled
by the possibility of being able to get
tents in which to place the exhibits.
theendeavorof the fair workersis being
turned actively to the securing of suf
ficient exhibitions to fill all the tents
available.
Another meeting of the executive
committee of the fair is to be held on
next Monday at which the information
gained at Hilo will be discussed, as
well as other detals concerning the
fair work.
Maui Made Good
Officials Say
Wadsworth And Case Praise Delegates
For Good Attendance At Convention
Meetings Valley Isle Songs Make
A Big Hit
''The Maul delegation made good,
because it played the game 'all the
time,'" enthusiastically declare Presi
dent Wadsworth and Secretary Case
of the Chamber of Commerce, when
discussing the Maui attendance at the
civic convention. Both the officials
were particularly well pleased on ac
count of the interest in the serious
work of the convention which was
shown by ail the members of the del
egation.. According to Secretary Case the at
tendance of the delegates at the dif
ferent sessions of the convention was
highly satisfactory. He adds: "The
Maui men not only took part in all the
fun of the trip, but attended to busi
ness as well."
Other returning members of the
delegation say that they were highly
pleased at the entertainment and hosp
itality shown them by the Hilo
people. That the Maui delegation in
its catchy costume and with its still
more catchy Valley Isle songs attract
ed favorable attention Is the opinion
of all the delegates.
Regarding the work of the conven
tion, the expression is made that it
waa of great value. One of the del
egates believes that as a result of the
convention that all the islands here
after will get "better roads and less
politics," as he puts it.
I). II. Case, who was a member of
the resolution committee, was one of
three out of five members of the com
mittee who opposed the passing of a
resolution favoring the forming of a
territorial commission to superintend
(Continued on Page Six.)
Blind Pigger Has
To Payffig Fine
Hana Justice Makes Japanese Illicit
Liquor Dealer Dig-Up $250
And Costs Of Court
Judge H. E. Palaklko of Hana ap
parently bn'Jeves in making illicit sel
lers of liquor pay heavily for breaking
the law when discovered as was shown
by a sentence he administered to
Edoue, a Japanese contractor and
storekeeper of that district, the first of
this week. The police had secured
sufficient evidence to warrant the con
viction of the Japanese and the magis
trate fined him $250 and costs of court,
which amounted to $3.50. This is
V severer sentence than if often given
to opium dealers. Sheriff Clem Cro
well went to Hana to aid in prosecut
ing Edoue.
Maui Speakers Plan
Settlement Visit
Primary Candidates Will Spend Two
Hours At KalaupapaNext Week
Inmates Anticipating Treat With
Much Pleasure
Since the ban against making polltli.
cal speeches at the settlement on Mo
lokal has been raised by the Territori
al Board of Healths as the result of a
plea made by Dr. Raymond and James
Coke, most of the Maul primary candi
dates are making plans for viBiting
Kalaupapa next week. The Maul can,
didates will leave for Molokai on next
Wednesday on the Mikahala and will
have about two hours at the settlement
for campaign purposes.
So many are planning on going that
the Kalaupapa Inmates will hear a
great variety of speakers, even though
the time to be taken by each will
be very limited. All the candidates
who have signified their intention of
going to the settlement are candidates
for nomination as representatives.
The candidates who have stated
their Intention of visiting the settle
ment are as follows: L. B. Kaumehei
wa, Char'es Kaanohl, John Brown
Levi Mahiai. Robert Nawahine, Char
les Makekau and Enos Vincent. J. W.
Kalua will accompany Vincent as an
Hawaiian interpreter. A number of
others may decide to go before Wed
nesday.
This will be the first time in eight
years that the inmates of the settle
ment have had an opportunity of being
entertained by political campaign
speeches. Every letter from there
shows the great pleasure they are tak
ing in anticipating the visit of the earn
ing In anticipating tne visit or me
campaigners.
Korean Hangs Self
With-Waist Belt
Simple Preparations Made By Suicide
Drops Only Few Inches, But
Far Enough To Cause Death Was
Mentally Unbalanced
By using his belt to form a noose.
Chey Barf Huck, a Korean laborer,
hung' himself at Camp 9, Puunene,
early yesterday morning. When the
man was found by fellow workers life
had left the body. The Korean went
to the edge of the camp Just at day
break and after slipping the belt
through the buckle he fastened one
end to the eavers of a small vacant
house with a nail. He then stepped
upon a box and slipped the noose
around his neck, afterwards kicking
the box from beneath him. The drop
was only a few inches, but It was sum
cient to cause death. The suicide is
believed to have been mentally unbal
anced. Accidental Death
Coroner's Verdict
That Umematsu Oda, the 17-year old
Japanese who was killed by a 50 foot
tall, in the Puunene mill a week ago,
came to his death by accident was the
verdict of the coroner's jury summon
ed this week to hear the evidence.
Oda was knocked to the floor of the
mill while a big piece of Iron pipe
was being placed in position by a der
rick. Among the witnesses were Dr.
Sawyer, William Lougher and William
Serby. The members of the coroner's
jury were, John Garcia, W. R. Boote,
Koma Apo, Manuel Picanco, Luke
Rogers and K. Chong.
Mr. and Mrs. E. R. Bevins welcomed
a baby daughter to their home on last
Wednesday.
ENTRY OF GREECE INTO
WAR STILL DOUBTFUL
Honolulu Waterfront Strike Situation Is Growing
More Serious Shipping Delayed Stock
Market Decline Expected
HONOLULU, October 29 Art Smith will make flight from Ho
nolulu sometime in December or January, while on way to Japan.'
The stevedores strike has begun to squeeze shippers. Indication is
that the strike situation along the docks is quite serious. Ships are
delayed in being dispatched.
Chamber of Commerce discussed the condition of labor at a meet
ing held yesterday afternoon. A resolution was adopted declaring for
the free handling of cargoes.
Hawaiian Chemists Association is to meet on October 11 and 1Z.
Listed shares on the stock market are dull again. Brokers predict
moderate decline along all lines, especially in sugar securities.
Wilham Lishman suffered a fractured leg at the seaside Hotel,
when he was run into by an automobile.
PAKIb, beptember Z9 A big battle has been begun in Valhynia.
Petrograd makes a report on the huge total of war prisoners taken.
The British yesterday captured a large German redoubt, north of
Thiapaval. Between Thiaumont and
pulsed. German warships and aeroplanes have bombarded Bucharest.
German general staff officially admits
Major Moraht, military expert
ers to not underestimate value of
BERLIN, September 29 Premier makes an important address at
the opening of the Reichstag. He
NEW YORK, September 29
have left their jobs, business is not
by unionists.
WASHINGTON, September
ese are denied, and are said to not
New York that Mikado would insist upon recognition is discounted.
Authority was not given for the
and Baron Sakatatni has no right
his announcement, it is declared.
LONDON, September 29 The entry of Greece into the Great
European War is still uncertain. . While officially neutral, it is under
stood that King Constantine is prepared to enter the war upon the be
half of the Entente. The plan of the Allies is to turn defense of the
entire Levant to Greece and to reorganize Serbians against the Bulgar
forces.
ATHENS, September 28 King
of an immediate declaration war
to be held at Mydilene tomorrow at which revolution will be proclaimed.
Reports that a general moblteation has been ordered are said to be
premature. After session of ministers at palace it was stated that an
early movement against Bulgaria
ed that King Constantine decided in favor of immediate war, directed
first against Bulgaria.
BERLIN, September 28 The Greek minister today informed the
German government that the Greek censorship has been abolished and
Greece from now on refuses responsibility for news dispatches origina
ting in Greece or directed to Greece. "
Germans today victoriously repulsed Allies forces on greater part
of sector between Ancre brook and river Somme. ' .
PARIS, September 28 German attack today between Thiaumont
and Clery was repulsed with heavy losses. French battries are bombar
ding Germans on the Somme front. . ,
NEW YORK, September 28 Strikers have so far failed to get
big sympathy move from other unionists.
HONOLULU, September 28 Reported that Makino.publisher of
the Japanese Hochi, is trying to enlists Japanese labores of waterfront
and railroad employees to strike. '
Publice meeting was called for 3:30 this afternoon as the result of
I he intimidation of labor. The action of the labor leaders is said to be
stirring up the men of business of the city. Maritine affairs committee
has asked President Smith that meeting of all interested citizens be call
ed at once. Fear of more thugging is said to be the reason. One strik
er has been arrested after Filipinos are set upon. Labor agaitators are
busy day and night and large crowds threaten strike breakers on piers.
Governor may soon choose two militiamen as candidates for admis
sion to West Point. The selections are to be made from the roll of the
National Guard of the Territory. Adjutant-General Johnson in' letter
to governor gives details for making the selections. Preliminary ex
aminations for the applicants will be held between January 1st and 15th
of each year. ' ' ' 1
' Mi
(Continued on Page Four.)
WIRELESS MARKET QUOTATIONS
SESSION 10: 30 A. M. September 29, 1916. .
Sugar Price at N. V. 96 degrees
Ewa Plantation Company 35.00
Hawaiian Commercial & Sugar Co 51.
McBryde Sugar Company. .. H.y
Oahu Sugar Company 92.00
Olaa Sugar Company . 17.1-8
Pioneer Mill Company 42.00
Walalua Agricultural Company . 24.3-4
Honolulu Brewing & Malting Company 20.00
Mineral Products Company 1.17-Ji
Honolu'U Consolidated Oil Company , 2.90
L'ngels Copper Company 2.90
Mountain King Mine g.65
Hawaiian Sugar Company
Onomea Sugar Company ;
Hawaiian Pineapple Company
Oahu Railway & Land Company
Mutual Telephone Company
Hilo Railway (7 per cent Pfd.)
Hilo Railway (Common)
San Carlos
Honokaa
Clery the German attack was re
loss of Thiapaval.
of Berliner Tageblatt, warns read
the successes of the Allies.
disclaims triumph of Allies.
While large numbers of strikers
as badly paralyzed as was expected
29 The alleged claims of the Japan
be official. Announcement made in
banquet address made sometime ago
to discourse along lines laid down in
Constantine has decided in favor
upon Bulgaria. Monster meeting is
might be excepted. It latter develop
'. 43.
, 5$.oo
49.1
20 00
