e. h
FINANCIAL EDITION
$
NIGHT
EXTRA
vol. in. no. id
icimtmn
foftger
NIGHT
EXTRA
ALLIES BEGIN
SURROUNDING
OF BAPAUME
French and British Drive
' T u..n u1 n ri C!r-vvrt T3 n 4-
JJOTWaiu uo uvmuuu jjul-
tle Continues
2UNS IN FIERCE DUEL
lalgs lucn tapturu otrungiy
Defended Farm Southwest
of Le Sars
Pounding tholr way forward amid
battered German positions, tho Allies
avc again scored important gains' on
he Sommo front.
. A great movement to encircle Ba-
I'jwume, one of tho three main objectives
V ef the Allies, has been launched.
v Jwhilo the French wero advancing on
t-the Fregicourt-morval lino the British
Jdspturcd a strongly defended farm 500
' -yards southwest of Lo Sars in a night
bittlc.
E fH 4 h m ., b.. .... firm L .a. l.nHlA,. !,.,.
mat 'VII lU tOWC114 41U1II, 1ICY UtlbUVO IIUVC
Edsvelopcd, especially north of tho
TGalician border, as a result of the
i counter-offensive of the Germans.
U iSurging forward and backward tho
SGerman Allies and the Entente troops
fixe still locked in battle aH along the
Macedonian front. Thq-Bulgarinns, un-
KBindful of their heavy losses, tried
Ngaln to drivo tho Serbs from their posi-
; lion at ivaianiuncamu iiciguis, in ntai-
crn Greek Macedonia, but failed.
The Bulgarian forces that occupied
rllangalia, on the coast of Dobrudja,
have been bombarded by a Rumanian
squadron.
Decisive developments are pending in
.(Jrecce. Tho Greek revolutionists havo
captured the island of Hygra. General
Danglis, former Greek chief of staff,
fc'lJas gono to Salonjca to" join tho revolu
tionary movement. The torpedoboat
Squadron of tho Greek racy has de-
i'serted to the Allied fleet.
' PATHS, Sept 29. French and British
3? troops havo begun to "pocket" Bapaume
L W th6 Sommo front, os'they aid Combles.
South of Bapaume tho French hare raf
iffnewed their attacks on tho J?)regleourt-
Itorval line, where fresh progress has been
made, the War Odlco announced today In
its communique.
The attacks followed the British assaults
northwest of Banaume ridge, north of Thlep-
fval, where they, too; advanced their lines.
An artillery dusl of the utmost violence
is raging both north and south of the Sommo
JUver, tho communique Bays.
Bapaume Is one of the threo main objec
tives that the Allies set out to reach when
they began their big push in France on
July 1, the other two being Combles and
Peronne.
With the capture of Combles the Allies
' cut the Germans' main line of communl
.cation between Bapaume and Peronne and
opened the way for taking those two towns.
With the French- working toward the Beth,
une road, a strategic highway which the
Germans hold southeast of Bapaume, the
British have set out to clear the ridge
stretching northeast of -Thlepval and In the
direction of Eaucourt-L'Abbaye, where the
Germans have erected powerful fortifica
tions. By, Uie capture of a redoubt there,
which the British took along with 600
prisoners, General Ilaig's men now com
mand n. ljarcA ftitntlnn nf thA nnrthprn vhIIav
$ t the Ancre.
LONDON, Sept. 29.
A strongly defended arm, southwest of
1 Sars, on the Somme front, was captured
from the Germans In a night attack, it was
stated -In the official report of the British
War omce today.
rforth of Thlepval the newly won posi
tions of the British being violently shelled.
BERLIN ADMITS THE LOSS
OF TRENCHE3 ON THE SOMME;
3 OTHER ATTACKS FAIL
BERLIN, Sept. 29.
The Joss of a small trennh section on the
Somme front was admitted by the War
Office today. The official statement says
.that the Intensity of ' the great' battle slack
s' eoed on Thursday but that a number of
SrltUh attacks were repulsed. The text
fv follows;
' Western front. Army group of Crown
Prince Rupprecht After the samruln-
. Irv nnnl.a f I.a aimu rrt k.m 0"T
' . lb. ti.141. lh DnnM. ..I,...!......, ..V
Urday. The English attacked between
r? the Ancre and Courcelette, but were -
jt svpmnea wun (no toss oi a ma irencn
wftuti. juruiwcsi u norm ' or
riULADELPELTA, FB1DAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1910
Comioni. 1810, It Till rcmo LtDoit Com rim.
Continued en l'nte rift, Column. Thb
THE WEATHER .
V .
; FORECAST
For Philadelphia and vicinity Rain
lb W AM afternoon or tonight, followed
ty eUartng and much eoole-r; Saturday
ffr and cooler, rwft westerly wind).
I.KNGTH er BAY
fcS !..,., BUM'a.m.lMewi rlM... :Bd.ib.
Mia,,,, BUT .w.Mm kh)1, lJ5jj.ro,
KB '
'i- wir,
UHUVWABB RIVKR TIDK CHAN0H8
CHESTNUT BTHHBT
. S:M n.m.tHtah wtr.
,10;M a.m.lLow wutvr. .1
TKMCKMATUKK AT KAOH HOUK
XADo lL i t L i LL il" ' s
!-3JTOL,I5iJS
9;W p.m.
m 4i .
MRS. JOSEPH C. LE DUG
1 ..Bt kX ammm 1
VB -4i v3.swOslflElC9isisisisisS M
Thoto br International Film Srvlc.
Chicago woman shot by Mrs. Harry Bchor, who killed J. C. Gravcur
in the Hotel Walton and then ended her own life. Tho wounded woman
is recovering in Jefferson Hospital, where her husband visited her
yesterday, declaring his confidence in her unshaken.
COMMERCE BOARD
SCHEME TO DELAY
TRANSIT SCENTED
Hiring of Outside Expert
Regarded as New Move
Against Speed Lines
LETTER STILL MYSTERY
The now fajious letter sent by the
Chamber of Commerce to Mayor Smith urg
ing the selection of W. Barclay Farsonu,
of New Tork city, as an expert "o partici
pate. In the transit lease conference con
tinues a mystery. The question which goes
unanswered is whether tljls letter was de
signed only to serve the Interests of a
clique in that tody or whether It repre-'
scnts the sentiment of that Important or
ganisation as a whole.
Friends of real and Immediate rapid
transit fear that strong influences are at
work for delay and that in getting an out
sldo expert to come to the city at this time
they hope so to becloud' the situation that
no operating agreement between the city
and the Philadelphia Rapid Transit Com
pany can be worked out for months to come.
A canvass of the members of the ex-'
ecutlve committee of the Chamber of Com
merce today faded to reveal that any reg
ular meeting was called to authorize tho
letter which was written by N. B. Kelly,
general secretary of the body, and signed
by Howard B. French, president. When
asked pblntblank whether tho letter had
been authorized either by the general body
or by the executive committee, both Mr.
French and Mr. Kelly refused to reply.
DELAY ItUSE FEARED
While 'the members of the executive com
mittee could not tell of any meeting where
such a letter had been authorized they
called attention to a resolution adopted Borne
months' ago urging that outside aid be
sought In order to settle the controversy
which was then being waged. At that time,
however, the direct question of an operat
ing agreement was not )ieforo the publto
and the controversy was rather over con
struction problems.
It was at that time the name of Mr.
Parsons was brought forward first by Alba
Continued on rate Six, Column Two
MRS. BELZER FIRED
SHOT THAT KILLED
GRAVEUR,COPS SAY
Shatter Theory Fourth Per
son Had Part in Hotel
Tragedy
PISTOL WASN'T GRAVEUR'S
All doubt was dispelled today In the
mlrul.i of detectives that Mrs. Harry Belzer
did not Are the shots that killed Joseph
C. Craveur, a New York garage owner,
wounded Mrs. Joseph C. Le Due, of Chicago,
and ended her own life In Wednesday
morning's shooting at tho Hotel Walton.
A revolver was found clutched In the
right hand of Mrs.'Beber by two of the first
personsjto enter the death room on the rlnth
floors ' after the shots wero fired. This,
detectlveB said, scattered the theory ad
vanced that tho revolver might have been
used by any of the other principals In the
shootlngr by a fourth person.
POLICE THROUGH WITH CASE
The revolver with which the shooting was
done did not belong to Graveur, It was
established this afternoon. His weapon
is at hla homo In New York. The re
volver wielded by tho slayer apparently
was purchased In Now York or this city,
the police believe.
Detective Callahan, of the "murder
squad," announced today that the police
are through with the case.
"It's up to the Coroner now," he said.
'Wo have completed a thorough Investiga
tion. . Nobody is going to get me as a di
vorce suit witness."
The inquest will be a formal affair, it Is
belioved.
LE DUC REAFFIRMS FAITH
Joseph C. Le Due, the wounded woman's
husband, today said that he would obtain
an affidavit from his wife's nephew to the
effect that she did visit the nephew's home,
in substantiation of her story that she
was not the woman who registered with
Graveur at the hotel. The nephew lives at
Norwood, Pa
in' spite of Coroner's Detective Frank
Paul's conviction that Mrs. Le Duo did
Continued on 1'ase Two, Colomn Two
PAJAMA-CLAD HOTEL GUEST SEES 'EM
AND HE HADN'T BEEN DRINKING, EITHER
Bellevue Bellhops Seek to Unravel the Mystery of
Room 618 They Go, They See and a Real
Animal Man Has to Do the Rest
All the bellboys' bruises were pretty well
healed today, but the monkey hunt Is still
the main topio at the BellevueStratford.
No. one seems to know how the monks
got In there. It has been learned definitely,
however, that they didn't walk up to the
desk and register and thenrlde to their
exclusive sixth floor room In the elevator.
But no pne connected with the hostelry
denies that they were in the hotel. It
would be useless.
One of the bellboys heard a startUs
poise. It sounded as though three or four
persons wero strangling at. the same mo
ment. This was followed by a number of
thuds. Then came a series of crashes.
Visions of a ghastly midnight crime came
before the trembling bellhop. He groped
his way to a house phone.
'Soroethln awful horrible's goln" up here
In No, U." he gasped, "gIJ,tho cops quick."
THE FIGHT JS ON
The desk clerk summoned "Josh" Whit
comb. He commandeered a couple of husky
porters and two agll bellhop. This brave
quartet, led by the boy who made the' dU
eevery and one et the house managers,
UUhllysrMPteed to the r M mystery,
All was quiet wlthUi.
Suddenly there burst eut em the midnight
air a serio ot groaif then came a efcueMe
ftoally a eras, tu scouts at um
door burst it open. They stood at the en
trance horrified.
-Sitting up In bed was a .well-known guest
of the hotel. He was clad' In silk pajamas.
Perched on the brass posts at the foot of
the bed were two monkeys, uttering defiance
to the man in the pajamas. On the elec
trolier two more monks Joined in the denun
ciation of the only human occupant pf the
room, who turatd. lasy ty -n the In
trudata and hrmlnded them casually that
r wasn't receiving visitors at such an
hour.
"Where did you get these monkeys?"
some one asked.
A smile of relief chased tho frown from
the man's face. "And' so they're really
monkeys!" he said. "Thank heaven." The
simians showed vthelr teeth to the intruders
and mobilized on top of a bureau after
weeping off all annoying ornaments with
their tails.
The porters and bellhops, armed with
brooms, were about to charge,' but two of
the enemy sprang to the electroliers while
two othera by a flank movement made far
the top of the main bedpoets.
TUB BATTLKI WON
The man In bed retreated to a wardrobe
and watched the fight with one eye around
tha door. The battle alternated from by
CeaHnuod oa !' Ms, CetiHMt &r
FURTHER VICE
PROBES URGED
BY GRAND JURY
Conditions Same as Before
July Raid, Investi
gators Find
POLICE ARE ACCUSED
Houses Operating With Officials'
Knowledge Presentment
Charges
Vice and gambling are rampant In Phila
delphia, Conditions are Just as bad as
ever.
The police officials who were Involved In
the July vlco probe should be brought to
trial beforo the police board.
Unlicensed saloons masquerading as
clubs should be wiped out tmedlately.
Mayor Smith should push the Investiga
tion These are n few of the'Bteps urged by
tho September Grand Jury In Us final pre
sentment before Judge Carr this afternoon
In Quarter Sessions Court.
The Jury urges that the vice probe
started by the July Grand Jury be continued
and that some one well Informed on vice
and gambling conditions and not nfTUIated
with the police department take charge of
tho Investigation with tho co-operation of
the District Attorney.
POLICE BLAMED
The Grand Jury also said that the ex
posure of tho July Grand Jury investigation
brought little result as the vigor with which
conditions wero Investigated has weakened.
It was also asserted In the report that
members of the present Orand Jury visited
resorts nnd found that they were evidently
operating with tho knowledge of the police.
Just before tho Grand Jury's recom
mendations were made known Director Wil
son announced he would confer with police
captains of tho city every two weeks for
the purpose of learning the actual condi
tions In their respective districts and take
steps to rcm.cdy tho evils. The first of these
meetings was held this afternoon. The
director declined to comment on tho Grand
Jury recommendations.
BRITISH PRESSCHEERS
LLOYD GEORGE DICTUM,
'KEEP OUT OF THE RING'
War Secretary's Demand for
"Knockout" of Prussianism
Taken .as Blunt Warn
ing to Neutrals
& "HISTORIC MANIFESTO"
By ED. L. KfcEN
LONDON, Sept 29. Lloyd George's
declaration that the war-must go on to a
"knockout," and his warning to neutrals
to make no peace overtures at present, con
tained In an Interview given the United
Press, won tho unanimous support of the
English press today.
The Lloyd George statement, described by
the Express as a "hlstorlo manifesto," was
printed In every morning newspaper in
Great Britain and telegraphed by all the
great news angencles throughout neutral
and allied countries. The newspapers
printed lengthV editorial comment
"This really historic manifesto," said
the Express, "puts In direct and unequi
vocal words what every man and woman
In the British Empire feels. Germany's
growing conviction, that If the' war'contln
ues she must be broken and beaten Inevi
tably, leads to neutral agitation for peace.
"American politicians, eager for the hy
phenated vote, undoubtedly would suggest
mediation, asking the belligerents to kiss
and forget their quarrels. To all would-be
peacemakers, whether In America, Itome
or Spain or other neutral countries, the
war secretary bluntly says: 'Keep out of
the ring.' "
DECLAIMTION OP RESOLVE
"It Is at once a declaration of British
resolve and a warning to those who would
thwart it that Great Britain simply won't
listen at this Juncture to whines and over
tures from Germany through any source,"
said the Mall. "Many signs Indicate that
Germany Is planning peace overtures via
the United States. Hence Lloyd George
wisely took an American Journalist Into
confidence, using straight from the shoulder
language which Americans appreciate.
"These words ought to go a long way
toward enlightening neutrals. The British
people recognize In hla words the proof and
echo both of their spirit and their policy,
The British army afield will be strengthened
by them In the knowledge that their valor
and sacrifices are not thrown away by the
weakness of politicians."
"Interviewing," said th Times, "is an
American institution which the old world,
borrowed, and it is only appropriate that In
Choosing this method of expressing hi
views, the Secretary for War should favor
with his conMence the head of ens of the
great American pews organisations.
"It ta a ferolbU, downright answer to aer
man and pro-German Intriguers' peace talk,
apposite In form, excellent in substance,
most opportune In season. '
"There la a reason-giving point to a me.
CnHiul am rw Fir. Celurna 0M
PRICE ONE OKNT
QUICK NEWS
PHILLIES 0 '
BROOKLYN.... 0
BOSTON .0 O , -
NEW YORK O O '
NEW YORK O O ; ' "
BOSTON O 3 ,'. '
Shawkey and Walters: Ruth and Thomas.'' " ' . ' '
DETROIT '. ,. ;v .
ST. LOUIS ' . '
' . ofilEk GAMES POSTPONED
TODAY'S RACING RESULTS
First Havre do Grace race, maiden 2-ycar-olds, 5 furlongs
Kilts, 112, Ball, $3.10, $2.30, $2.10, won; Storm Nymph, 112, Byrne,
$2.70, ?2.20, second; Supernal, 112, Schuttlngcr, ?2.30, third.
Time, 1.03.
Tirst Woodbine race, Diamond plate, $600 added, 2-year-old3,
foaled In Canada, 0 furlongs Bine Dove, 10S, Kobluson, $7.70,
S2.DO, $3.40, won; Belle Mahone, 103, Pickens, $2.70, $2.50, second;
Statlm, 108, McDermott, $2.00, third. Time, 1.15 2-5.
PIEDRAS NEGRAS PLACED UNDER MARTIAL LAW
SAN ANTONIO, Tex., Sept. 29. ricdras Negras, a borCcr town,
opposite Eagle Paso, has-been put under martial law. Many officers
of the garrison were arrested "uy General Perlaldl, military com
mandant, on the charge of participating in a Villlsta plot.
SAFE BLOWERS ROB CANADIAN BANK OF $9000
WINNIPEG, Man., Sept. 20. Safe "blowers robbed the bank of
Hamilton Branch at Caron, Sask., eighteen miles west of Moose-Jaw,
early today and escaped with $0000. The telephone and telegraph
wires leading into the town wero cut, the night watchman at the
bank was held up and the safe blown up by four men.
. -.
"JOHN M-PARKER TO CAMPAIGN FOR WILSON '
ASBTJBY. FABK, U. J Sept.; 20-rJohn M. Sarkbr,. nominated
by the progressive 'national convention for the -vice presidency As
Colonel Boosevelt's running 'mate, will epeal: for President Wilson iii
New York, New Jersey and Ohio, it wa8 anuouacedtoday. Parker
wrote, to -President Wilson offering. his services and the-oTTer has
been'accepted.
MAN HELD ON CHARGE OF SELLING "DOPE"
George Stromo, 910 Winter street, was held to the Federal Grand Jury under
800 ball by United States Commissioner Long today on a charge of selling narcotic
drugs. Special Tollccmcn Hicks and Patchelll arrested Strome'at Ninth nnd Winter
streets September G, when they Haw him, they said, sell .two packages of cocalno to
Florence- Samson and accept a dollar for them. They saw tho Samson girl, thoy
said, give one of tho packages to another girl.-
DEUTSCHLAND READY FOR ANOTHER VOYAGE TO U. S.
AMSTERDAM, Sept. 20. The German merchant submarine Deutschland
ready for a second trip to the United States, according to the Loltal Anzclgcr.
is
PARALYSIS EPIDEMIC ON WANE; ONE NEW CASE
. Dr, A.'A. Cairns, chief medical Inspector of the Ilureau of Health, belleyes tho
end of the Infantile paralysis epidemic in this section of Pennsylvania is near.
Only ono death and ono new case wero reported to the bureau today. There wero
soven new cases yesterday, but no deaths. Earl Brlnder, thirteen months old, 2321
Beybort street, died of the disease last night in tho Philadelphia Hospital for Con
tagious Diseases. Hugh Tourison, two and one-half years old, 222 East Mt. Pleasant
avenue, was reported to have contracted the disease.
TWO MORE BRITISH SHIPS SUNK
MADRID, Sept. 29. Tho British steamship Roddam, 3218 tons, from Newcastle,
has been sunk in the Mediterranean, evidently by a German submarine. Eleven
members of the crew were landed today on the Spanish coast.
LONDON, Sept. 29. A dispatch to Lloyd's this morning reported the sinking
of tho British ship Second by u German submarine, The Second was the eighth
victim of submarines within twenty-four hours,
GERMANS. REPORTED BUILDING THIRD U-TRADER
LONDON, Sept. 29. The Amsterdam correspondent of tho Exchango Telegraph
Company says travelers who have arrived from Bremen report that a third Ger.
man commercial submarine will be ready to sail within a month. This submarine,
to be known as the Kaiser, Is said to be slightly larger than the Deutschland.
PRICES NOT TO RISE, SAYS MILK EXCHANGE HEAD
Talk of an Increase In the price of milk has been branded as groundless by
Dr. William Kelly, president of the Philadelphia Milk Exchange. It had been
reported that a rise In price was discussed at a recent meeting of the exchange,
but Doctor Kelly said only trade matters were considered. It was "repeated yes
terday, nevertheless, that some members were Inclined to favor a rise, but that
the majority of dealers were opposed to It.
WESTINGHOUSE
PLANT COMING;
JOBS FOR 5000
Big Company Buys 500
Acres to Build South
of City
OTHER WORKS TO MOVE
Marino Turbine Department to
Be Followed by Others From
P4ttsburgh District
190,000 SCHOOL ENROLLMENT PREDICTED FOR TWO DAYS
Dr. John P, Garber, Superintendent of Schools, has estimated that 199,9f0
pupils will be enrolled In the Philadelphia public schools when the. second day's
enrollments are counted today. It. Is expected that 6000 pupils will be afireMed
today, yesterday having been the first day for enrollment.
PENROSE AND DU PONT LEAD AS ABSENTEBS
WASHINGTON, Sept. 29. Senator Penrose, 1r the sieAs of the (
from 1911 to 1916, answered 402 rollcalli out of 1199. Senator Oliver rmpondaj wJ
768. This is snown in trie record compiled by the National Voters' League om
lust made public, Senator Marine, of New Jersey answered IMS rollcalls of the
1199, while trustor Ju Pont, of Delaware, responded to 406
The Westinghouso Company Is coming
to Philadelphia.
It has purchased a tract of more than
BOO acres "known as the "Hill Farm." la
Tinlcum township, east of Ridley Park, on
which It has begun to erect a plant for the
construction of steam turbine marlno en
gines. Already It Is making contracts. One
of more than 1,000,000 has been awarded
to It by the Chestor Shipbuilding Company.
The new Westlnghouse plant, when com.
pleted, will give employment to more than
8000 highly skilled mechanics. The plant
Is being erected here for convenience to the
big shipbuilding plants which are springing
up on tho Delaware.
Some months ago the president and other
high omclals of the Westlnghouse Company
selected the Hill Farm for this purpose and
made a deposit to bind the transaction.
Subsequently they took title to tho prop
erty In Uie name of John It. Scott, as shown
by the records In the County Courthouse
In Media.
It is said that this will bo but the begin
ning of the transfer of many of Westlng
house plants to this location, largely on ac
count of the unsatisfactory labor condi
tions in tho Pittsburgh district
The Hill farm on the Delaware Is six or
eight miles this side of Chester. It Is near
the huge plants of the Baldwin Locomotiva
Works and the Remington Arms Company
at Eddystone, The Reading Railroad run
through the property nnd the Delaware
River washes ono corner of It
The Westlnghouse name and Interests
are connected with the following companies:
The Westlnghouse Electric and Manu
facturing Company, the Westlnghouse Foun
dry Company, tho Westlnghouse Gear and
Dynamometer Company, the Westlnghouse
Lamp Company, the Westlnghouse Machine
Company, the Wostlnghoise Airbrake Com
pany, the Westlnghouse Traction Brake.
.Company aud. the .Met,al Filament Lamp
Company, nil In America: the Wcstlng-
nousq .nianuiaciuring company, uimttea, or-
Canada, and the Metallfadcn Gluhtampea
fabrlk Geselschaff'of "Cferrnany,
. Westlnghouse securities are, held by banks
and private, investors In every State in ths
Union and by many Investors In iorelgfe
countries.
The principal Westlnghouse plants ar
located In the Pittsburgh district at East
Pittsburgh, Braddock, Trafford City, Swiss
valle and Wllmerdlng.
It Is possible that a branch of the West
lnghouse Gear and Dynamometer Company
will bo the, one to locate first at Esslngton.
as that department Is concerned with the
manufacture nnd building of the electrical
ly driven and controlled marine turbines,
which the lato George Westlnghouse, In
collaboration with Rear Admiral Melville,
perfected and patented before his death,
and which are looked upon by experts as
the future propelling power of all mode: a
ships, men-of-war as well as merchantmen.
P0,ICE ARREST MAN .
IN KILLING OF WIFE
New Hampshire Resident HelcL ,
JJody Found in Water Re
veals Alleged Murder
MOUNTAIN VIEW. N. H., Sept 29.
Fred L. Small, formerly of Boston, was he!4
today In connection with the murder of his
wife and the destruction of their summer
home here by lire.
The house, which la situated, on the
shores of Osslpee Lake, was destroyed by
fire .last night The body of Mrs, Small
was found with a rope around the neck. It
is believed she was strangled and burned
with the house,
Sheriff Chandler, pf Carroll County, maU '
the arreBt when Small stepped from the
train today. Late yesterday Small bearded t
the train for Boston and It was shortly
afterward that his home burned.
Mrs. Small's body was found lying with
head and shoulders 'In a pool of water ia
the baserpent of the house, having fall)
there when the floor above fell through,
Tied tightly about the neck of the woman
waa a double coll of rope fastened with a
square knot at the back. It is betleyed the,
fire was set to cover up the crime, but the
chance falling of the body letto the poet
of water revealed the mttrder. When
the woman's body was rmyd team Um
ruins today It was faud the afeuit Nad !,
crushed In, -v-
WOMAN EXHIBITOR tfXflfQ
FROM INJURY AT -foitffi MW
It. Sdw-ard fh&eJfcM Uifc,
MOJUMrOttltH ... t
as
W MM MM Hm a t U
krt sMW yeMetttaywM reported toda
ta b drlsHr.
Mm fufCertd, a fractured skua wlun bar
kiwi teil oa her.
ee
V--u-" f-i si i I ., !,.., ' - t---t -i vrmnt wwf j VVftfHifj M sVffJ XITft VttfHHB M,! -"" - - - --.., . -, r , TT ,.
"I" " I I I . II I 111 II I III J II. "'"' ' J--.- .. t .1111.11 II Mill II 11 llll I J ... .1 .1. I I l I I I
' " ' ' . w a v-"
Pictorial Page for Exclusive Views, of the PbillW Opehiag Baseball Battle With Brooklyn at Ebbtt' Md Ymtet
41
m ::
