THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Showers and thunderstorms to-day;
cooler; to-morrow fair and cooler.
Highest temptrature yesterday, 7!; lowest, 64.
Ex"1 weastier, mail tnd marine reports on pace 1 1,
IT SHINES FOP, ALL
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 29.
NEW YORK, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1916. Copyright, 1916, by the Bun Printing and Publithing Astociation.
ONE CENT
la Ore-lee New Toes,
Jersey City umI Nawerk,
Elsewhere
TWO CENTS.
Sim.
REVOLT FORCES
GREEK KING TO
AGREE TO WAR
Constantine, in Fear of Los
tog Throne, Decides to
Join Allies.
I LTIMATUJI WILL
ORDER BULBARS OUT
Warships Join Allies' Fleet
When Admiral Condou
riotis Quits.
VKX1ZEL0S ISSUES
A PROCLAMATION
Holies Ruler Will Lead the
Army Mytilene Joins
Crete in Uprising.
Lovoov, Sept. IS. Wur jgnlnst Bul
garia has been decided on by King
ronstsntine and the Greek Cabinet.
An ultimatum will be sent demanding
tint Bulgaria -evacuate Immediately
the part of Greek Macedonia she now
rccuplcs. Mobilization of the whole
Creek army will 1osln without los. of
'.me.
This I the news in despatches re
tell ed to-day from At ho hp. Premier
Kalngernpoulos said before a hastily
jaimnned Cabinet meeting that an
iitlmatum would be sent to Bulgaria.
Au Athens despatch dated yesterday
inernlng says:
"The King called a conference of Pre
mr Kilogeropoulos, Gen. Moschopoulos,
tr.s Chief of tff : Hear Admiral Daml--to.,
the Minister of Marine, and Nlch
'. Stralho. ex-Mlnlster of .Marine, at
the r..lace thin mornlns to dlscurs the
4,tlon to be taken In view of the silence
f the Entente Tower respecting
irrece's .iroposal to join the Allies, nude
'hrouh the Greek Ministers at the En
irate capital ten days ago."
First Xm of Move.
Till I the first news that the formal
propoial for action by Greece on the aide
(the Allies was made by King Constan
ts Government. It Is believed that
'"c Kir waa induced to take thl.i atep
' the growth of thematlonal revolt and
' r if the loss of hl throne unless lie
fcuUd to the desires of the Greek
"ip!r
i despatch from Athens Iteuter'a
v respondent nays a telejram has been
rciwd there from Canes giving the
tuiarv of ihe pmclamatlon of a pro
lan 1.1 1 Government by former Premier
'tiiel.-is and Admiral Condourlotls. Tlie
'inn points of the document, says the
'rrepondent, constitute a comparison
f' tre Greece of to-day with the Greece
f 1512.13?
'The application of the personal policy
'if th (.ncerelgn. a vlrtlm of bad coun
"' ." the proclamation says, "has re--lt"il
In a rapprochment with Greece's
iilt.iry emmlcs. the Violation of ths
'onMltutlon, internal anarchy and Isola
' on anil contempt for Greece, which the
Allien consider hostile liecause she re
fjed the Serbs the facilities accorded
ihe Rulgars,
'The victorious army of 1912-13
hbindons the territory conquered by the
niton's blood; the population Is fleeing
ifore 'he Invaders; war material has
Uen given the Bulgars; Ortek soldiers
have been sent tu Germany by way of
rofla, and patriots are regarded as
traitors.
Minnltl gave What's Left.
'To-day l not tho moment to estab
"h the responsibility. Our duty Is to
' what ther Is atlll time to save.
Tn attain this It Is essential to reestab
lish national duty by an Immediate re
turn to the policy dictated by the na
tional conscience, namely, range our
elvcs on the side of the Allies and
frblan to expel the Invaders.
"It would be u happy ovent If at the
Seventh hour the Kins; should decide to
'.ke the lead of the national forces. In
ontr.iry event It Is our duty to do
Me needful to save the country from
the thnatenlng ruin. We aro entering
IV snuggle convinced that the nation,
'ndep ndently of the state, will accom
pll'h the miracle and brine the country
t'ick to the status of eighteen months
HO "VKNItCMS,
'jo.voormoTis."
The departure from Atnens of Ad
n.lral 'ondourlotls, besides causing a
leep Impression on the King, completely
P'rt the navy. The Greek battleship
'Iplra and two torpedo boats have left
'her anchorage with the Greek fleet and
Mned the allied fleet In Salami Bay.
Prince George Recalled,
Prime George of Greece, brother of
King Constantine, who lias been In Lon
don for some time representing the views
"f the Greek court, received to-day a
el'gram from the King recalling him to
When, it Is reported that an Impor
tant announcement regarding the situa
tion In Greece will be made to-night or
to-morrow at the Foreign Offlra here.
There Is a feeling of relief In Athena,
"cording to despatches, at the pros
Pct nf a termination of the strained alt
uatlon caused by the refusal hitherto of
Hie King to art In accord with the In
dignation at Ilulgarlan occupation nf
Ireelt territory and kidnapping of Oreek
trocpx It haa been reported that the
tiret-k note to Germany regarding" the
transportation of Graek troops from
Kavula set to-morrow as the time limit
or an answer.
The revolution which M. Venlaetos la
bout to head still grows. The Island
"f Mytilene haa Joined the Venfsetlst
movement. All the local authorltlea
"re placed themselves under the pro
Ally committee of National Defence, with
hesiio.ua rura at Balonlca. A monster
meeting Is planned for to-morrow.
A Berlin despatch aays that the Oreefc
Minister to day Informed the Gsrman
t'Ovsrnment that the Greek censorship
Cearlaurd on Third Pa ft.
BRITISH BATTLESHIPS
TO HAVE 18 INCH GUNS
Effective at 25 Miles and to
Be Employed Apralnst Land
Fortifications.
Washington, Sept. JS. Battleships
equipped with 1 Inch guns, three Inches
bigger than any now In use and two
Inches greater than the largest guns pro
jected for the new battleships and bat
tle cruisers to be added to the American
jeyy, are under construction In Great
Britain, according to unofficial advices
which are given credence by naval of
ficials here. The guns fire a projectile
weighing 2.000 pounds and hnve a range
of twenty-five miles.
Tin weapons are designed for use
against land fortifications. As a means
of developing floating forts which could
throw great projectiles Into land forti
fications out of eight over the horlaon
the reported British venture la regarded
by ordnanco experts as having great
Possibilities.
What effect development of such en
gines of war might have on future bund
ing plans of the American navy no
official would predict. It was apparont,
however, that keenest Interest was be
ing taken th the experiment.
The largest gun carried now by any
naval vessel so far as shown by records
here are the IS Inch rifle mounted on
some of the latost British. Oerman and
Italian battleships. The largest on any
American ship are those of the 14 Inch
type, carried by the Pennsylvania and
vessels of her class.
KAR0LY1 PROTESTS
RULE BY THE KAISER
Hinififiry Parliament Lender
Snys War Lord Would Hun
Pour Nation.
ptiinl I'nhit nr'pur'i in Ths Siv
I.ovpon, Sept in. According tn the
correspondent of the .Woralni; Pojl at I
Budapest, the rieech of Count Michael . a roar of approval and delight, partly. It
Karoly,. leader of the Opposition. In the , paVGye"aus:,!er S'lhe
Hungarian Parliament on September 20 u) a, t
was n vigorous protest aKalnst the as- j
tendency of the Kaiser over the govern-1 ' A1"K- fr llelun Candidate.
menta of all the Teutonic Powers, espc- "No American need apoluglxo for be
clally. of couise. Austrla-Hungary. ln dldnto for office." Mr. Huehea
' " continued after the clamor stilled, "least
Count Tleaa. the Premier. h mak ne or nU j. j desired to remain on the
great efforts to prevent Huh n,evli l.c- bt.ncn, t ha(1 desire lo irUin. to
comlnsl known. , politics, but there came a summons
"Should the war end undeclelvely." the wnch no honorable man could refuse,
correspondent says Count Karolyl ns- j did assume the garb, call It motley or
serted, "and should the struggle of tlx-, What you will, of a seeker of office, and
belligerent ginups tie continued In fields, am now before the American people
political, our foreign polltlclana and seeking the highest office In Its gift. For
statesmen give us no guarantee that they, what purpose? Not that 1 covet power,
can cc,ne with the problem. i but I do covet the opportunity. If It Is
"Information I have received from the afforded, to maintain American rights
best source Is that the German Km- and American honor."
peror has assumed the role of War Lord They were off again, this time simply
not only over his own empire but over ripping the air with yells and shouts and
Austria-Hungary. Bulgaria and Turkey. making the big building quake and
I know they have transferred the hitch shiver with the Impact of stamping feet,
military command to the German Km- Hut Mr. Hughes waa not done by any
peror. I means. Ha went on:
"This Is the most dangerous game we "Our distinguished former Secretary of
have eer been playing at. It Is more State has made some otiervatlons with
dangerous as the German Kmpetor under respect to American rights. He makes
the powers vested In him can votno for-i a mistake In assuming or suggesting that
ward at once with a fait accompli as re- the criticism of the Administration's for
gards the time and terms of pea-e and elgn policy Is, ns he puts It, that 'our peace
other vital matters concerning Germany's Is a peace without honor' We have no oc
allles. which mlgnt place tin in a very'caslon tn go Into war with respect to
awkward situation, for we gave over to known right that any nation will re
Germany all our powers of t-eIf-govern- r.prct If we know huw to convince that
mcnt. our rights as a nation, as soon as nation that we aro Arm In maintaining
the sovereign rights parted out of the .them. I like Mr. Olney's pen as Socre
hands of our King, who took oath under' tary better than his pen as an apologist,
our constitution to uphold them." I We gate no convincing sign that we
Count Karolyl also attacked the A us- meant to enforce our rights. That Is the
trlan General Stiff. Count Tlsia, reply-1 difference between resolution In fact and
Ing. said that the sovereign rights of the resolution In theory."
King of Hungary, who is the Kmpcror
l'rancls Joseph, had been vested tempo- lilts' at lilamson Bill Too.
rarlly In the highest command, namely. I ,. ..... ... , . ., ,
general headquarters, and that this step1. Mr, h,ot ""''. ' Mr ,ln'y
wa" i.eceesa?y for military consldera-1 ""I'.de.l his opinion of Mr. Olney's ex
iinn. ruses for the Presidents course In the
tlons.
Count Karolyl retorted that this
meant hla Information waa right, and
the only excuse for this drastic Infringe
ment of the laws was the old age of the
monarch, but this they did not think
necessary to state.
"The situation." he continued, "la that
wc huve given up our only remaining
fortress and our Independence to u tnr-
elen Power."
Count Polonys. ex-Mlnlster of Justice,
ii-.i-.i ,h fteneral Staff and demanded
that Baron Burlan. the Austrian For-
elgn Minister, be held responsible for the 1
fniinres of the war. and also the Mln
Ister of War. who had shown animosity
and hatred for the Hungarian Parlia
ment. Deputy irgron objected to giving a
decoration to Count Csernln, late Austro
Hungarlan Minister to Bucharest, say
ing that he was a traitor tn his country.
"Instead of the rope he deserved," he
said, "they gave him a decoration."
2 ITALIAN AIRSHIPS DOWNED.
Austrian Get One Prisoner In
Thrilling Battle,
Vienna, via London, Sept. 2S. Aerial
fights between Austrian and Italian
fliers over the Adriatic are reported In
an official announcement Issued here to
day, which says:
On the morning of September 26
Ave enemy aeroplanes dropped numer
ous bombs on Durs (Durazzo) with
out doing damage worth mentioning.
v.... m ,( narnnlanafi nsrf tirlerl Itn-
mediately In defence and after a bat-
tie an enemy hydroplane was forred
to alight on the water, where It was
salved by an Italian destroier. They
shot down another tony miles from
the coast. The observor, an Italian
naval officer, was dead and the pilot
ssrlously wounded.
, . -- .
ROBBER BAND LOOTS 4 TOWNS.
HIsT Thefts In Manchester, Marble-.
he-ad, Essex and Hamilton, Mass,
Boston, Sept. 28. News that summer
homes In the fashionable North Shore
colony had been robbed of ihoiwands of
dollars worth of Jewelry and sllvcrw;iio
within tha paat atx days waa mado public '
to-night by the police of Manchester, ,
Marblehead, Essex and Hamilton.
Police nf these towns ssld they sre
working on tne ineory mat a nana or
burglars made their headquarters In this
city and toured tha North Shore by night
In automobiles, oeing amen in tneir roo
berles by confederates within Ihe houses.
The publication to-day of a reward of
ItOO offered by Samuel D. Warren of
Ho st of for the recovery ot lf.000 worth
of Jewelry stolen from Ms summer resi
dence waa followed by the police an
nouncement of four other robberies.
Benjamin B. Crownlnshleld lost 11,000
worth of silverware.
HUGHES RETORTS
TO OLNEY ATTACKS
Stirs Saratoga Conference to
Wild Enthusiasm by Hot
Denunciation.
morn he is candidate
Points Out Danger of Forced
Legislation Speaks in
Trenton in Morning.
Saratoov Spriniis, N. Y Sept. 2.
Angry to the heart over Hlchard Olney'e
flings Charles K. Hughes, speaking here
lo-nlgbt before the llopubllcan Slate
Conference In the halt where he was
first nominated for Governor ten years
ago, replied so vigorously to the former
Secretary of State that 7.000 persons
sprang to their feet and went slambang
cruiy for five minutes.
It was a new Hughes that the State
llepubllcans saw In action a Hughes
burning with Indignation; s Hughes
throwing aside all Indirections and
euphemisms , a Hughes that railed a
spade a spade. No one had ever seen
the man so fiercely aroused.
Mr: Olney'e criticisms published last
Saturday morning In a defence of the
President's course In the Adamson bill
matter, brought about the explosion.
Sweeping his right fist backward toward
where National Ohaltmaii Wlllcox, Gov.
Whitman. Senator Wadsworth, ltobort
Uacon, William M. ('alder and a dozen
other State leaders were sitting, and
then turning squarely to the great
audience, Mr. IIUKhes burst out:
"The distinguished former Secretary
of eitatc snld In eubstafticti that I doffed
the Judicial ermine and appeared In the
motley grab nf an ordinary seeker for
oilier. I did doff the Judicial ermine
and I submit to yuu that you know, and
Jccry American knows, that It fell from
my shoulders unsullied."
That sentence lifted the audience to
its feet. Seven thousand yells plied up
Adamson bill procedure,
"A distinguished Democrat," he said,
"a former Sec.elary of State I have al
ways admired and respected and whose
record presents a singular contrast to
that of the present Administration
spring, to Its defence In Its hour of trial.
With his ability, I assume that he has
done the best that can be done. He says,
referring to the recent railroad sltua
tlon, that I object not to the 'averted
strike," but 'to the mode of Its uccom-
pllshment. to wit, by the threat of a
strike within a time too short for due
consideration of nevcssary legislation.'
"1 am not prepared to admit the neces
sity of wage Increases by law, But I do
object In every fibre of my being to leg
islation under duress. I object to the
surrender, of the Kxecutlve to force. That
Is tho path of disaster. If the distin
guished Kx-Secretary of State deslret to
take the nntlnn along that path I will
not accompany him "
Then came a third demonstration that
shook the hall. There was no mistaking
the delight of the audience In the fight
ing Hughe-i perhaps unexpectedly re
vealed to them. Wlllcox and Whitman
and others almost as well known were
slapping each other upon the shoulder
and shouting, "Bully!" "Oreatl" and
down In the crowd men were doing all
eorts of antics under the pressure of the
excitement.
Fllllinatcrllfg Fruitless.
"He asks why I did not urge twenty
eight Republican Senators to filibuster to
the last ditch, Mr, Hughes continued
"Well. I do not believe In filibustering, for
,one tll,n- ' Lnngress through Its ma-
'Joilty determined to pass the bill there
was no reason whatever why Its action
hibhii mtiy ui- uj- iiiiwusicring,
wrKUnieiiis more, inin line renqy come lo
this, that In somo way the Administra
tion should have been enved from Itfdf.
"The truth l. tho Executive destroyed
I the moral strength nf the situation when
1 threw up his lund. yielded the piin-
iclple of arbitration and went lo Congress
demanding the railway we bill ns the
firlce or peace. . ongiesa, no far a tho
morale of the situation va concerned,
ratlllod a surrender already made. The
Administration clime In ground. It se
lected Us ground carefully and with a
manifest view to niirtl-i.in fxnedlencv. In
the cloning days ll acted with swiftness,
and It cannot now rry that n Republican
candidate i thousand inllc away nlinuld
have saved It from carrying out Its fixed
determination."
Mr. Hughe then cn-icenlrated his at
tack against the President, excoriating
the procedure taken In the Adnminn bill.
He answered Mr. Wilson's defence that
a sudden crisis existed by bringing Into
the evidence correspondence which
proved that the menace ot a callroad
atrlk. waa known long before Mr. Wil
son went to Congress nn August !9, that
the business men of the country long
foul (mini on Nrcontl t'wje.
MME. EMMY DESTINN HELD
BY TEUTON MILITARY EDICT
Singer Detained in Prague,
Where She Went to Be With
Fiance, Dinh Oilly.
ALGERIAN IS INTERNED i
Opera and Concert Contracts'
Vpset by Inability of 1'. S.
Embassy to Aid Her.
Kmmy Destlnn will not tetuin lhl
season to sing again the roles In which
she has endeared heiself as a member of
the Metropolitan Opera Company. It
was learned yesterday on good authority
that she Is being detained by the Teu
tonic military authorities, .she was at
Castle Plaes, her recently acquired conn
try place, nt Ncuhaus, Bohemia, near
Prague, the last time there was any di
rect communication from her, She went
to Prague at the dote of Inst season to
be with Dlnh Gllly. the Algerian opera
singer, to whom she Is teported to be en
gaged to be married, lie Is interned for
the period of the war In Austria because
he Is a French subject. In spite of the
warning of friends that It would be dim
cult to return, Mine. Hcstlnn went to Bo
hemia In order to be with him.
The most recent communication fiom
her came Indirectly through the Ameri
can Embassy nt Vienna, to which she op
piled for assistance In leaving the coun
try, and the State Department at Wash
ington She wns unable to obtain a pass
port because she N not yet nn American
citizen, although she has taken out her
first papets In this country
Charles 1.. Wagner, who Is Mine. Des
tlnn'e representative In America for her
concert engagements, said yesterday he
has been unable to get Into direct com
munication with her for weeks owing tn
the difficulties Interposed by the British
censors. At Mr. Wagner's ofllie It was
learned that Jdnie. Destlnn's concert ac
companist. Homer Samuels, who went to
Stockholm In order to meet her, is re
luming without her. He cabled from
Stockholm that he was sailing yesterday
for New York
Mme. Destlnn had been engaged to
tug Atiln at an open air performance
of that opera In San Francisco on Satur
day and arrangements were made with
Mine. Johanna Gndskl to take her place
when It was learned that she could not
appear. She wan also listed as the bright
particular star of the Ellis Opera Com
pany, of which Charles A. Kills of Bos
ton Is the manager, and Slgnor Cam
panlnl of the Chicago Opera Company
Is director and conductor, for a tour
beginning October 17 at Toledo, Ohio,
and continuing until the opening of the
regular opera season. Mr. CUIs was not
In the city yesterday to say what ar
rangements he lus made to substitute
for Mme. Destlnn.
SHERIFF AL SMITH
CHOPS OWN BUDGET
He Can't 1'se His Private Sec
retary at 81,500 a Year,
So Out With Him!
Al Smith, Shetlff of New York county,
prufoundlv shocked the members of the
sub-eommlttee on budget yesterday
when he appeared before them with the
statement that he has nn ue for a pri
vate secretary nt $1,500 a year, and
asked that the Job be abolished. The
request was granted promptly.
The board of elections asked 1.3 51,
9M for 1I .', as against Sl.4lt7.65 1 In
1916. There will be but one primary In
117. The sub-committee will recom
mend an appropriation of Sl.Sno.CSS,
with a probable addition of $20,000 for
Janitor service In the scnoot houses
used as polling places.
QUITS CELL; FEARS BLACK HAND
Prisoner. OTeratnylnsr Time Three
Month, tn l.enve Pnunlry.
(Iss'lNINO, N. V . Sept, 2S. Itocco Du-1
rssso, formerly a United Statos soldier,
left Sing Sing prison to-day with re
luctance and under the protection of a
guard. He might have left three months
ago, but refused, as ho Insisted the
BIa,ck Hand would get him the minute
he left the prison. Durazzo was con
victed In Brooklyn of carrying concealed
weapons as a protection agalnt the I
band and had t-erved three years. He
declined all offers of assistance. Finally I
the prison authorities Interested tin
Italian Immigration Society, which
agreed to send him back to Italy.
Henry C, Merrltt, the Kastchester con
tractor, was psroled to-duy. He served
u sentence for converting public funds
lo his own use.
PORTLAND EXPRESS IN CRASH.
lilts Frelnht nt Smith l.nvrenee,
Shaklnc I'p Passengers.
South I.awrrnit, Mass., Sept 2S.
i The Portland Expiess, from Boston for
Portland, Mc over the Boston and
Maine Railroad, crashed Into a frlcuht
train Just west of tho station here to
night. Nobody was dangerously hurt,
although the passengers were badly
.lialicn up
The front of the passenger engine was
, demolished and three flat cars loaded
with '.tool i alia were overturned, block-
I Ing traffic for nn hour. The nccldent
j.hnppcned on Urn Andover street cross
ing, one of the busiest In the city, whllo
hundreds nf mill operatives were re
turning home.
MONITOR FIGHTER DIES AT 79.
I Last II lit Onr nf the Crew it ml
I Xevrr llrcnr a Pension.
I FnNP mr Lac. Wis, Sept. 2' finis.
Inphcr P'-lce, member of the view nf the
Monitor In Its fight with the Merhmsp
durh'-f the civil war, died nt his homo
'at Slo-kbiidgc to-day aged 79 yens.
Price's rtrtth la said lo leave only one
virvlvor of the Monitor'a crew Prlcn
, never drew s pension from the Govern
' inent.
Itr.WKV'rt WINBS UKACr. ANT TAM.K
l"i ' le ilfll'lom, IS Fuller
M ;.u mi .'u, .S. V, I I'hone J'JOl Cj.i
'if r.
HHP., HjBJBJBJBJHJr
i PSx !- BBBBBSSSSSSSSSSSS9
V - '"ssaaaaT
'k flsSBBBBBBl
iIbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbW.
I fi' WZr''' BBBBBBBBBBBBBBB
$ 4'Ibbbbbb
'
' BBsbibbbbbbbb1bb
' "' VsbbbbbbbPwbbH ' '
i YBBBBBBBBBBBBW' ....
Pliuiu i ipvrlKlit l.y Ml.hltln
Emmy Dcstinn,
lyric soprano, who is forbidden to I
leave wonemia to tuini ner contract
with the Metropolitan Opera Com
pany and for concert tours.
The same altlintlon prevailed at the
Metropolitan Opera House yesterday, as
Mr. tlnttl-Cnsazzt has not yet returned
and nil arrangements are In hi hands.
He 1 1 not expected to leave Kurope for
at lemt n week yet. and It Is possible
that he will yet have time to make ar
rangements to till Mine. Detlnn's place
at the opela till- svaitou befoie his de
parture. Mme. Destlnn was under contract with
the Metropolitan for only n part of the
season, and the remainder of her time
was taken up with other engagements,
principally In the concert field She Is a
lyric soprano, and It li probable that a
part at lcat of her work will fall to
Mines, Knil.ii, llappotd and Borl,
who are the other principal lyric so
pranos of the Metropolitan company. Her
principal roles have been In "Madama
Butterfly," "Alda." "Tosca" and "Car
men." Her W'agnerlnn roles aie Kllia
litth In "T.innhacuser." f.7u In "Lohen
grin" and Senfit In "The Flying Dutch
man," She was for eight years the star
of the Iloyal 0wra in Berlin before com
ing to New York.
CUPID GETS BIG LIFT
FROM R0SH ha-SHANAH
Cit.x Clerk Scully .Marries 04
Couples in One Ijny. Set
ting a Iteciinl.
Sixty-four marriages. .1 lei-oul mini-
bi-r. were irfnniieil In ilie t'i'y HaU
ytsterday by J. J. Scully, t""Ity Clerk, and
1,1s deputy, F. J. Goodwin In .ul :j
m.irrlagj license wero Util ,n Man-1
hattan.
The leasnu was that ('lipid found ,m
aid In Itns'.i h.i-Sh.ui.ili Many shop.
stores and factories wete cloud, rfHing
betrothed couples th Uliil-ual opportu- 1
ult - of a da) off which was nut a legal,
holiday with the City Hull i-loscl. Sol
Mr Seullj nilulit appropriately have sub
stituted "Shnliin Ali'Iehem" f"r his
stereotjped "i dope )on may hoi h bo
huppv
YACHT BURNS; 4 NEAR DEATH.
- - - -
'luniifiii'liircr mil! Gitral llrseiied
nn- Indian Mnrlioi- V ne hi (In I..
Greenwich, Conn., Sept. II. H. B,
Xl Villi II if " I. .UVIIII.-, New
lorlt, n s.lk inaiitu.i'-iurer, w.ih hla rtlfe
and two friends whore names wute with,
held, were uImi.iiiI Newman's, motor
crulher. tho i:ulyn II.. when It caught
Ore to-night off Great CnptHln's Island,
about five miles snuthwiM of the Indian
Hatbor Yacht Club. All In the partv
"r" iiuinfii .inn narrnwiy nusseu ucatll
by drowning The motor cruiser was de
"Irnyed. Mr. und Mm. Newman and their two
guests, halil to be from Chlcngn, left
New York In the boat shortly after noon.
As they nc.iifd c!renwirh tho p be.
i-amo choppy and a kerosene oil stove In
the engine room u erturued, the oil
limiting, Those on board mndo their
way to tho tender through the flames.
They weie picked up by the oyster boat
ostiea of South Nonv.ilk
STRIKE VICTIM A SUICIDE.
Old Mount Vernon Man Worried by
llavliiK to Walk.
Mors. Vwinon. N V Sipt :s The
body of Charles V l.cvluus. mi old resl.
dent of Mount Vernon, w th tle ,iad und
ion arm seven u. whs round this mom-.
Ing alongside the New Haven tracks In'
the deep cut uliiler the Tenth avenue I
bridge.
As the tracks am forty reel below the
bridge it Is believed l.eviiius, who was '
74 years old. leaped off the bildgo In a i
lit of despondency 1
l.uvlniis had worried ovei the trolley'
Hlrllic because It made him walk tool
much j
NECK BROKEN: DIDN'T KNOW IT
PlttslHiric Alhlele l.rnrns Why He!
t'nii't Piny Football,
1'ITTsiil'KH. Sept. 2s, Joe Maston,
nil nioiiiiil athlete of tho fnlverslty of
Pittsburg, did not know until tu-dnv Hint
his tnrk was broken Inst fall. Aflcr
vainly trying to pWy with the football
leani lie consulted u physician,
An X-r.iy photograph illrio,-n that
tho only reason Maston Is not dead Is
because ths fracture Is between the
second and third vertebra nnd the
spinal column Is not nfTccted,
I, 7 Launched In the Pacific.
Lonu IlrAcji f'il., 'Vpl 2 I'nlled
SI-'" '
'is; i-'ieil h'"-i-
ll
f-ni'i.i i).
T. R.TEELS HOW OUR
FLEET AWED KAISER
Describes Manner of Itringing
Germany eo Time in Vene
zuelan Crisis.
t'NLIKK WILSON METHODS
'Inside" Facts Given in Let-;
ter to He Incnrporateil in
Life of John Hay." I
A letter fiom Theodoie !tooevett to
be Incorporacd In the next edition of
William It. Thayer's "Life of John liny"
was made public rslerday by the pub
lishers, Houghton Mllllln Company, be-c-iiue
of Its bent ing on the chapter de
scribing the manner In which thu roun-
,lry, without bringing on a war, brought j
Germnny to time when Germany threat-j
i-ned to hnmbatd mil occupy Venezuelan I
cities In order to secure the pament of
the South American nation's debts.
On the publlcatTbn of Mr. Thayer's
book this chapter aroused great Interest
and was reprinted In part In the Coil-
!reiumi Itiroiil because of the con-j
trust It afforded to the methods now em-1
ployed In dealing with foreign countiles. i
Mr. Thayer, on the nuthoilly of Mr.
I lay, said the AinerUan Government de
manded of Germany the withdrawal of
her fleet fiom Venezuelan waters and an
agreement to arbitrate tne differences
between the two countries This Ger
many refused to do.
Hal tie Flret Assembled.
Ill regaul to this situation Col lloose
velt wrote In the letter Jut made pub
lic: "I became convinced that Germany
Intended to selzo some Venezuelan har
bor and turn It Into some strongly forti
fied place of arms, on the model of
Klao-chow, with u view of exercising
some minus of control over the future
Isthmian Citial, und over South Ameri
can nffalrs generally.
"For some time the usual methods of
diplomatic Intenourse wero tried. Ger
many declined to agree to arbitrate the
question at Issue between ner and Vene
zuela und declined to say that she would
not occupy Venezuelan territory, merely
saying that such possession would he
'temporary' which might mean any
thing. I finally decided that no useful
purpose would be served Ty rurtlier de
lay and I took action accordingly.
"I assembled our battle fleet under
Admiral Dewey near Porto Blco for
inanieuvres.' with Instructions that the
fleet -should he kept In hand and In fight
ing trim, und should be ready to sail at
an hour's notice. I told John
Hay that I would now see the German
Ambassador. Ilerr von Holleben, myself,
and that 1 Intended to bring matters to
an early conclusion. Our navy was in
ery efficient condition, being superior
to the German navy"
Wins by Firmness.
Col. Itooseelt described his flrsl In
terview with the German Ambassador,
in which Von Holleben politely Indicated
his belief that the Kaiser would con
sider arbitration absolutely out of the
question. The answer of the President
war that unlers he received Germany's
ngrei nicnt to arbitrate within a stipu
lated time he would ordT Dewey's Meet
to Venezuela to prevent the contemplated
occupation of Venezuelan territory Von
Holleben visited President Roosevelt a
few days later, but made no mention of
the Venezuelan matter.
"I nsked r.'.m," "n'd Col Roosevelt.
"If he had nny answer to make from his
Government to my request, and when he
s.ild no 1 Informrd him that In such
event It was useless to wait as long as
I had Intended, and that Dewey would
be ordered to sail twenty. four hours in
advance of the time 1 had set lie ex-Vrcss'-d
deep apprehension, nnd said that
his Government toiild nut atbltrate.
However less than twenty-four hours
be'ore fie time 1 had appointed for
i-.ilillni: tin- older to Adnilr.il Dewey the
Ambassador notified me that his Impel l.il
Majesty the Geiman Kmpi'ioi had dl
i ected him to tequest me to umlei take
the urbitiatlon myself"
iJxccrptH from a letter of A. W fa III
sen, an American of German pat nit.ige,
are quoted by Col. Roosevelt to chow that
Von Holleben first advised h's Govern
ment that he ( Roivcvell ) wns probably
b'ulllng The Ambassador, according to
Mr t'alllscn, subsequently wns obliged
to eat his own words and cable In hot
liiiKle to Berlin He later was recalled
mid dismissed from the diplomatic sei
vice COLONEL GOES WEST TO-DAY.
gpenka To-morrotr In Battle Creek
l.ntrr In Five Cities.
Oil Roowvelt will leave here this a'
temoon for Battle Creek, Mich., where he
will deliver to-morrow his second speech
of the campaign, called by those who
have seen It his "skin 'em alive'' speech,
The speech will lie dellveted In a tent
holding 10,000, Republican-! and Pro
gresslves havo united In making the nr.
langements.
This speech of the Colonel's has been
awaited wltlK great expectancy hj thu
campaign managers, who are preparing
to circulate It all over the country. Col,
Roosevelt will return to-morrow night
fiom Battle Creek and will have another
conference with Chairman Wlllcox nlmul
his Western trip, upon which he will
start probably the h-coihI week In Oc
tober Chicago, Kansas City, liidliu
apolis, Denver anil San Francisco arc
the places believed tn have been M-lccteil
for Roosevelt speeches
THIRD SUBMARINE READY.
The Knlsrr Will Make Trip to
tiiierlcn In n Month,
l.n.NTiiN. Sept 2i The Amsterdam
correspondent of the Uxchanm- Tele,
graph fiiinp.iny fux iravelleis who
have nritvrd from Bremen tepnit that
.) third German coinmerclnl submarine
will be ready In (all within ,i month.
This submarine, to be known as the
Kaiser, Is said to be slightly Inrgrr than
the Doiitschland.
Hr.nt.lN, via London, Sept 2 News
nf the arrival of tin- Bremen at New
London, fonn.. Is still Licking, but the
announcement of Its successful voyami
is oxpected any day.
The Biemcn took much longer than
waa calculated would be necessary, and
though Ihe owners rtieccsfully con
cealed any appearance of apprehension,
they have been waiting anxiously for
news.
The Deutsrhland I" expected to leave
for tr-e Pulled Stales when the Bremen
air' i' Ni- London loaded with dye
slulfs -in-J medicines,
20 VOYAGES TO SEE
HER SOLDIER FIANCE
Next Trip Widow and Italian
Cavalry Lieutenant Will
He Married.
Mrs. Ailmlnill l.alorre. a well to do
Italian widow of New Haven, finished
yesterday her twentieth round trip to
Italy since the beginning nf the war,
despite danger from submarines.
The object of each visit In her home
land was to see her Intended husband,
Ihnest Carolina, a distinguished Italian
lawyer and lieutenant of cavalry. He
could not get away to see hor mil so
she had to go to htm, talking with him
In 'the brief periods of his rurlougi.
She says she will go rack to Naples In
four months, when he will get a leave or
absence and they will be married ; that
H ir he survives battle with the Aus
trlaus. Her little girl, Isabel, American
born, has accompanied the' widow on
every trip.
ALCOHOL EXPECTED
TO OUST GASOLENE
Chemists in Session Here Told
of Its Clieap Production
for Motor I'se.
At the ionfercnce on Industrial alco
hol, arelone and acetic acid at the Chem
ists flub, which was one of the features
yesterday of the fourth 'day of the chem
ical convention, scientists predicted gen
erally Hint denatured alcohol would take
the place of gasolene as motive power of
the future.
"There Is no longer any question of
the commercial success In the manufac
ture of alcohol for automobiles," said
Arthur D. Little of Boston, nn expert on
wood wsstf, who Is chemical counsel for
the fanadlan Pacific Railroad. "Experi
ments have shown that alcohol can b
manufactured for as low as 2fj rents a
gallon, and at that price It will undoubt
edly be preferable to gasolene.
"Alcohol H cleaner than gasolene, will
not explode nor catch fire, and will de
velop practically as much horse-power.
The decrease In cost has come through
Improved methods In Its manufacture
from wood waste, from waste sulphite
liquor and from molasses."
Arthur H. s'omey. superintendent of
the Kastern laboratory of the Du Pont
Powder Coifipany, which Is rated with
the best establishments In Germany, aent
n message that "the manufacture of al
cbhol from sawdust lis a commercial suc
cess nnd will grow accordingly."
MenMon was inado at the conference
of a substance which Is being developed
for movie films. It Is non-inflammable
and waterproof and Is known as cellulose
acetate. In the applied colloid sym
posium Dr. Charles L. Paraons. chief
chemist of the United 'States Bureau of
Mines, told how America cun be Inde
pendent of foreign material for the china
and porcelain wnre Industry through a
new system of purifying secondary kaolin
luund In Suuth Carolina and Georgia.
The convention continues to-day.
11 GET LEWIS0HN JEWELS.
Ilniikrr's, Wife Left Fortune
firms tn Relatives.
Mis I Minus M. I.cwisohn, wife
of
Adolph !.ewiolin. banker, whose will
was tt'ed for probate. yesterday, left a
fortune in Jewels to her hutli.iiid, her two
Kins, two daughters and el grandchll-lii-n
The value of her property was not
stated, but the 1'rt of Jewelry Includes
diamond tut- is. horses)- : "ng", buckle,
and other efftots o: great value.
Mrs. Lewi-nhii dlid at Klberon. N .1 .
on July :'s Her summer home thre she
left to her husband, and to her sister,
Mrs Jennie It Schlffrrof 2t F.at Sixty
ninth street, and her two brothers, Jacob
and Jo'epli 'aim, go bequests nf I25.0OU
each
The i-fsldiiary estate Is left to Mrs.
I.ewisolin's two sons, Samuel l.ewisohn
of West Fifty-seventh street and Julius
l.ewii-ohii of Salt Lake City, nnd the
daughter.-., C.ara P.ossln of 16 Kast Sixty-second
street and Adele Legman of 31
West Fifty-sixth street
DR. K00 RESIGNS POST.
Chinese Minister nt Wuablualon
MirTrrlti From III Health.
WvsitiNiiToN, Sept 2i--Dr Welling-
ton Kern, ChlncM- Minister to the Putted '
Statis, has sent his leslgnitlon to the
Chinese Foielmi lllllce. It was earnedi
t-d.t Continued III health was given
as) thu reason.
Dr Koo Is only 30 years old tha
youngest diplomat ever accredited to the
I'nlted State He was graduated from
Columbia I'niverslty In IIW, nnd ic
reived his degree of doctor of philosophy
In l!"12. He has also received nn honor
ary degree from Yale. He was ap
pointed Minister to the I'nlted States In
November, 19 15, by Yuan Shlh-k'al, to
whom he had been pilvate secretary.
His home Is near Shanghai. Ho married
the da lighter of Tor.g Shao-YI, first
Prime Minister of Ihe republican Cabl
net TO PAY FOR MAIL BY BULK.
ci Plan tn He Tried on Itallroads
Cntiinii-nrliiK .n. I.
WASHINGTON, Sept 2S The space
basis for compensating railroads for
transportation of mulls will be put Into
effect November I throughout HO tier
cent of the service, the Post Office De
partmciit announced tn. night, Final
decision as to whether It shall be made
permanent Is left to the Interstate Com
merce Commission
The in tier cent nf the service In
which the present weight basis will ne
retained Is the "1 Ion-iI pouch iK-rvlce,"
rniislstlug of malls tiaiiMiilttcd In locked
i'.iek In baggage car nnd handled by
agents of the rallinul companies.
DYESTUFF CENSUS SECRET.
Iledllelil Hold. I'p Facts Pending
Importers' Protests,
Wahiiisoton, Sept. 2S. Publication of
parts nf the dyestuff census compiled by
the Department of Commerce will bn de
feired Secretary Rcdneld announced to
day. pending consideration of protests
made by Importers, who charge that to
put private information collected by the
bureau Into tha hands of manufacturers,
would be unfair and Illegal.
Tho main objection is In tho lira nt
the names of Oerman manufanturera
with whom American Importers deal. The
census, compiled to aid American manu
facturers In building up a horns Indus
try, Is in the hands of the prlnter-nl
parta of It hat'e-besn made -public
GREAT 'STRIKE5
FALLS FLAT AS
LEADERS SULK
Union Heads to Confer .Mon
day About That General
Trade Tieup.
P0LICK CANNOT FIND
ANY M0HK HAVE QUMf
Labor Chiefs, However, Tn
sfst 1(1:5,000 .Joined
Army of Idle.
TOJIJIITTKK OK M'
UWIXDLESTOAFEW
Brotherhood of Loeoniotiv0
Engineers Won't Fight
the Interborough.
"Sympathetic suspension of work,''
for which Hppe.il had been made byj
certain labor lenders, lit tho hope of
winning tho carmen's strike, fizzled oul
yesterday. Then; was no more re
sponse whatever by lalxir unions to tho
call of the carmen for help, and despite
tho claims of HrneM Llohm, necretnry
of tho labor convention, that 163,000
men had quit work there wag sufficient
evidence to warrant the assertion that
organized labor In Greater New York
had refused tho appeal to light thu
battle of another union.
The mectlnB of the now executive!
committee of thlrty-fivo which lia
been selected at tho labor convention
In Beethoven Hull on Wednesday
dwindled to a small group yesterday
morning. That group became still
smaller In the afternoon. Then Hugh
Frayne, Its chairman, leaving tho com
mlttee'a rooms In 3 Great Jonea street,
practically admitted the failure of ths
much touted scheme for a sympa
thetic strike by announcing that a new
assembly of labor delegates -.ill b
celled for Monday morning ot 10:30
o'clock In Beethoven Hall.
Leaders Mill '-l lBhtlii."
"The fight Is still on." he said sadlv,
and we have not surrendtied the Idea,
of a tleup of all trades in New- York.
ou see If wa,s this way. Certain oi
ganlx.itlons have toid us that they hail
not had time In which to call a strike.
They told us the question of n stllkii
must be voted In soi.e Instances by
district council, and then must go baik
to the unions for final decision. Now
there has not Keen time, as ienulre.1
by the by-laws, for the o.illnu of i-uci,
meetings Accordingly many unions
have not had time to uct."
Then ou admit your plan fcr calling
a mispenslon of work has failed" .r.
Fr.ino was asked
"W do not !t has been successful,
for we h.m- mo! thin 1 .5.000 men out.
now and we will have mine. No, wa
cannot give the names of thorn org.inl.a
turns To piiblls.i them would make thi
heads of thon- unions the object of
blacklist by employers and do them
great damage "
President Theodoie P. Shonts of tha
Interborough Rapid Transit Company,
greeting newspaper men at the. Hotel
Belmont last night, fald the subway and
elevated lines were doing a better bus!
n;s this )ear than last during the Jew
ish holldajs. Aslieil why the general
strike had fallen Hat he said the "best
of the union men have minds of their
own nnd do their own thinking,'"
Poller Can't Find New Strikes.
u'l"'n lolJ Ul" l101" r,,ul'' get mi
""ee of an ncv unions that had quls
w-nrk Mr I'ravue said "I don't caie.
We know that we have the mien out nn.V
we are satisinu.
Then Mr. Praym- entered one of th
high powered automobiles that the labor
leaders use now.idajs (while thev urso
the union man to walk fio-n tho Batten"
to The Bronx) and was whlir.cd awnv
III company with Sttlke Loader W U.
Fitzgerald The enthusiasm seemed tn
have gone on' f the leader. though they
tried boldlv to keep up a show of cutis
fldenee and optimism
When the committee met In tho morn.
Ing they seemed to have some hope left,
for Secretary llohm, leaving the com
mittee rooms, laid "The members of
the committee aro now scattered about
the city getting union out Just wait
until 2 HO o'clock and we will havo a,
big surprise for you. And I am not
bluffing when I nay this "
But the day wore on and no Mr sur
prise burst forth from the committer
room upon a n-ore of reporters gath
ered In the street Nothing happened
except that a labor lender would appear
and accuse tin tiewspapeti of having
been unf.itl and untruthful
Three lllu Hope rc Hiishciti
The thiee big hopes on will, ll the 1 ibne
loaders iclled for harassing tile traction
companies were blasted in the enure, of
the day. These were I -f u-.-il ( ' io
building trndcH t take nnv -i-'un fnl
lire of the teamsters to call n st.lke nnd
a disavowal by A, I.. Grldley, or'4iiH'ei
of the Brotherhood nf Lvcnimillv c l.u
glneerw, that he had said l.e would inih.i
trouble for President Theodore P. ShoiiH
of the Interborough.
The executive board of tho Vnr
York Building Tiaib- w,i In reh n.i
from 10:3o A. M. uu'.l 2 l" P. M d u
Ing which they decided tn put cvi- m
til next Wednesday . vote on the s
pathetic strike, Even In the evini i i
decision by the council to strike, I -ever,
the final decision would Ht i.,.i
the unions,
The session was a lie-il(d one 1' ' -,.
gerald made an appeal for help M i
striking enrmeu. While the tun- ' ?
the committee were In vcsslin. i
East Fifty-fourth street there was ti , i
heated debate, the lepnrters j
street hearing the loud voices
During the debate a i-usp di - unt
flying out of the window nnd n.i'iow'y
missed,-, reporter sundtug on tin- tu
i
