# Rain this afternoon; partly cloudy Y ^77 i . * LT-Y /S I O "^rom Press to Home I
and much cooler tonight. Tomorrow, M I B A/ & u^yil
fair fresh westerly B ! Br^B ^^B Br^r ? WW* B ewBr B ^fBr/Bh R An . .1 .. ,,
Temperature for fl I T B B I 7 JB f B B^r B B B III ^Hb^^ I \ mm (j^Mr ITithm the HoWr
ending p.m.: Highest. I Wf rU| III | | | | | /4 | B JlAl ______
^ ^B ^B ^B ^B ^B ^B B
^ Inn Hat Clrnlttln, Heath at Aagaet.
CLOSING NEW YORK STOCKS PAGE 30. ^i i i ^ V?/ * ? . Daily Axrerage, 7?Aa?! Seeder. 55,712.
No. 29,456. WASHINGTON, D. C.t FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1916-TWENTY-FOUR PAGES. ONE CENT.
HIGH PRICE OF FLOUR
MAHEROFCONCERN
Co-Operation of Federal
Agencies for Suggestion of
Remedy to Be Invoked.
U. S. COMMERCE CHAMBER J
URGED TO INVITE VIEWS j
Program for Nation-Wide Campaign
to Be Prepared by Committee
of Washington Body.
With Washington bakers expressing:
the belief they will have to raise the
price of bread, as has already been
done in New York, Chicago and other
large cities, as a result of the soaring
price of flour, which is now the highest
it has been since the civil war, leading
business interests today took up a plan
to obtain the nation-wide views as to
what is best to be done to meet the
situation.
The Chamber of Commerce of the
United States is to be urged to take a
? referendum of its subsidiary organizations
as a barometrical indication of
what the business men of the country
think would be most efficacious to protect
the consumers.
The co-operation of many federal
agencies is to be invoked, including
the bureau of markets of the Department
of Agriculture, which is already
investigating the marketing of wheat;
the solicitor of the Department of Agriculture,
the federal trade commission
and the bureau of foreign and domestic
commerce of the Department of
Commerce. President Wilson already
has before him several petitions from
bakers' associations urging that he call
a special session of Congress to consider
the wh?at situation with the suggestion
that an embargo should be deiared
against the shipment of wheat
>UL U1 1X119 uuutur>.
Washington Chamber's Action.
The special committee appointed by
the executive committee of the Washington
Chambe of Commerce yesterday,
of which John G. Capers is chairman,
is to hold a meeting Monday noon,
when a definite program for the nationwide
campaign is to be adopted. In
the meantime the members of the committee,
most of whom are commission
and flour men of extensive experience,
are carefully preparing data to be submitted
at that meeting as gathered by
the Chamber of Commerce of the United
States and by the Commerce and Agriculture
Departments,
As a fear has been expressed that the
farmers might feel that they would
icse through the establishment of an
embargo on wheat, business leaders are
preparing to present the general welfare
view of the situation at the meeting
of the National Grange here in November.
What They Expect to Prove.
They expect to prove to the farmers
that they will get just as good prices
for their wheat by having it held in
this country and milled here as they
would get through their product being
shipped to all the nations of the world, j
They propose to argue that the United !
States must take care of her own hungry
first and make it possible for them
to get flour; that after that the other
needy nations should pay the price for
flour if America has it to spare.
The committee of the Washington
Chamber of Commerce is going to wait
on all government officials who would j
be interested in this matter, and it j
nopes to invoke the support of Con- |
press. The presentation of the case to I
the National Grange is in the expecta- !
tion of getting the support of that organization.
Local Bakers Reluctant to Talk.
Washington bakers seen today were
reluctant to discuss the outlook regarding
the weight and price of loaves
of bread, following the publication of
dispatches from New York. Chicago and
elsewhere that the price had been
raised. They say that if the price of
flour and all other ingredients continues
to rise they will be forced to raise their
price for bread, but that they will not
do this until absolutely compelled to.
They take the position that competi- |
tion will compel each baker to give the
largest loaf he can for the money.
In Chicago the price of a small loaf
of bread was raised from 5 to 6 rents.
The price of cookies, crullers and
other bakery goods was advanced. Rolls
and doughnuts that sold for 10 cents I
advanced to 12 cents a dozen; those j
that sold for 12 cents went up to 15 j
cents. Five-cent sandwiches at some
downtown restaurants and lunch counters
were sold for 7 cents.
While the federal Investigators were
learning what could be done regarding
the Increased prices housewives prepared
to hold a mass meeting, to demand
that Congress place an embargo
on the exportation of wheat and flour
until the home supply exceeds the home
consumption.
The biggest bakeries In New York an- i
nounced the increase to go Into effect
October 2.
Borne weeks ago. while the National
Association of Master Rakers was
holding its annual convention in Salt
Jjtke City, the federal trade commission
made an investigation of the
wheat situation in Minnesota and Ohio,
and the commission is to be asked to
make this report public as soon as possible.
Want Wheat Exports Stopped.
At a meeting of the United Master
Bakers 01 rsew i ors on September 13
resolutions were adopted urging Conf^ress
and the President to stop the exportation
of wheat. Several similar
resolutions have been forwarded to the
President.
Leaders in the milliner and baking
trades and commission merchants advance
many arguments why there i
should be an embargo and are bringing
their views forcibly to ail the federal
bureaus concerned.
In supplementing his presentation of
the case yesterday to the executive
committee of the Chamber of Commerce.
P. T. Moran. president of that
organisation, himself a dealer in flour
for more than twenty years, said tnat
at least one-third of the eastern wheat !
crop was damaged and unfit for milling.
This has contributed to a very i
serious situation.
In speaking of the proposal to have
the Chamber of Commerce of the
United States appeal to its subsidiary
organizations for a referendum on the
wheat situation, and what should be
done for the relief of the consumers,
Mr. Moran said: "The combined wisdom
of the business men of the country
through such a referendum should be
a good barometer on what is necessary.
This vote should have strong influence
with Congress and other federal
-agencies for declaring an embargo ori
I
whatever other method may be found
for relief."
The price of flour In Washington?the
highest since the civil war?as given
in The Star yesterday, is still in force,
with a prospect of increase any time,
i One of the largest milling concerns
with offices here is selling to the retail
dealers at $9.40 a barrel. This price is
set by the mills and is on a standard
preferred brand. In handling this
many retail dealers get but 20 cents
profit on the sale of eight sacks. The
average price per sack for the standard
brands of flour today was 60 to 65
cents. In Virginia the price is 70 cents
per sack.
di AMCTn broiiMr
iLMIIO IU RLOUIYIL
TAlMffl PRESS
President Wilson Arranges to
Confer With Newspaper
Men Twice Weekly.
MEDIUM TO EXPOUND
ISSUES OF CAMPAIGN
No Tours to Be Made, But Letter
Writing to Various Organizations
Throughout Country Is Begun.
LONG BRANCH, N. J.. Septemlwr 29.?
President Wilson today arranged to resume
conferences with newspaper men
which were a feature of the first two
years of his administration. Through this
medium he is expected to discusis political
subjects freely and expound them for
the country.
Soon after entering the White House
the President inaugurated the policy of
seeing Washington correspondents twice
a week and submitting to a crossfire of
questions on all kinds of subjects from>
them. "When the foreign affairs of the
government became delicate because of
the European war Mr. Wilson stopped
the conferences. He now plans to see
newspaper men twice a week while at
Shadow Lawn.
The President had no political engagements
today, but spent several hours
reading letters and telegrams from democratic
leaders in different states, and attending
to public business. Tomorrow
he will review the 4th New Jersey regiment
at Seagirt, N. J;, and at 4 o'clock
in the afternoon will address members of
young men's democratic clubs from New
York. .
Opens Letter-Writing Campaign.
In a message opening his campaign
of letter writing President Wilson declared
last night that "the question is
about to be determined whether we
shall keep the nation upon its present
terms of peace and good will With the
world or turn to radical changes of
policy which may alter the whole aspect
of the nation's life."
The President wrote the letter to
Miss Leona L. Larrabee, president of
the Women's Democratic Club of Portland,
Ore., thanking her for work being
done in his behalf by the organisation
"I cannot help having: the feeling:,"
said the President's letter, "that the
intelligent women of Oregon need no
suggestion or intimation from me as -to
what are the real issues of the present
campaign or the real concern that
women must have with those issues.
As a very sincere advocate of the extension
of the suffrage to women, it
seems to me a very great disservice to
the cause that partisan use should be
made of it, particularly at a time so
critical as this, when the question is
about to be determined whether we}
shall keep the nation upon its present
terms of peace and good will with the
world or return to radical changes of
policy which may alter the whole aspect
of the nation's life."
Business in Hands of Young Hen.
In another letter, sent to Howard S.
Williams of Jackson. Miss., expressing
regret that he cannot attend the annual
convention of the Young Men's
Business Clubs of America, at Jackson,
October 10, the President declared that
the future development of the country
rests in an unusual and peculiar degree
at present in the hands of young
business men. .
"The problems of the future in the
field of business are going to be new !
problems very largely," he wrote, "or
else old problems in a new form. It
will need imagination, vigor and enterprise
to deal with them as they should
be dealt with, and the young men of
this generation should be preparing
themselves in mind and purpose for a
new era. It would be a great privilege
if I could come to bear such a message
in person. Since I cannot, I can
only ask you to utter it for me, and to
assure the gentlemen assembled of my
profound interest in the part they are
to play in the future development of the
; great nation we love."
No Campaign Tbur.
i The President made it clear again that
he has no intention of making a campaign
tour. It was reiterated that all speeches
| made by him away from Shadow Lawn
I will be before non-partisan organizations
and, generally speaking, will be non-political
in form.
! In replying to an invitation to make an
extra speech on one or nis middle western
! trips. Secretary Tumulty wrote that no
plans were being made for any rear platj
form speeches by the President. On these
trips the President's private car will be
attached to regular trains, and only the
regular brief stops will be made. A suggestion
has been made here that a Wilson
day be celebrated before election in all
I parts of the country, the President to
! write a message for the occasion. The
; plans are only in tentative shape, howj
ever.
GOES TO EMERGENCY HOSPITAL.
Anthony Tall Selected as Superintendent?Begins
Monday.
Anthony Tall, who for several years
has been associated in the management
of the Post Graduate Hospital, New
York city, haa been engaged as superintendent
of the new Emergency
Hospital and is to assume charge Monday.
Dr. Harry Lewis, who was resident
physician under Dr. Magruder,
and who succeeded Dr. Magruder as
superintendent about three years ago,
has resigned to enter private practice.
Dr. Lewis will remain for two weeks
with Mr. Tall at the hospital until he
has familiarized himself with the work
of that institution. Mr. Tall will look
after the business end of the hospital
management and Dr. McDonald will be
chief resident physician until the expiration
of his term.
'DESERTIONS UPSET
THE GRECIAN NAVY
I
Battleship Kilkis, Formerly
U. S. Idaho, Said to Have
Joined Revolutionists.
DEEP IMPRESSION
IS MADE UPON KING
Entente Powers Silent as to Con
stantine s irroposais to
Join Them.
ATHENS, September 29.?The departure
from Athens of Admiral Coungouriotis,
besides causing1 a deep impression
on the king, has completely
upset the navy. The Greek battleship
Hydra and two torpede boats have
left their anchorage with the Greek
fleet and joined the entente allied fleet
in Salamis bay. A report that the battleship
Kilkis, formerly the United
States battleship Idaho, has deserted to
the revolutionists has been received
here, but is denied by the Greek ministry
of marine.
The king called a conference of Premier
Kalogeropoulos, Gen. Moschopoulos,
the chief of staff; Rear Admiral
Damianos, the minister of marine,
and Nicholas Strathos. ex-minister of
marine, at the palace to discuss the action
to be taken in view of the silence
of the entente powers respecting
Greece's proposal to join the allies,
made through the Greek minister at
the entente capitals ten days ago.
Mytilene Joins Revolt.
The loyal officers and soldiers of tife
garrison in Crete, who are said to consist
of a third of the Greek force on
the island, have requested the entente
allied consuls to provide means for
their return to Athens. The island of
Mytilene has joined the Venizelist
movement, all the local authorities
having placed themselves under the
"committee of national defense" established
in Saloniki.
Venizelos' Proclamation.
LONDON, September 29.?In a dispatch
from Athens, Reuter's correspondent
says a telegram has been received
there from Canea, giving the
summary of the proclamation of a provisional
government by former Premier
Venizelos and Admiral Coundouriotis.
The main points of the document,
says the correspondent, constitute
& comparison of the Greece of today
with the Greece of 1912-1913.
'The application of the personal policy
of the sovereign, a victim of bad
counsels/' the proclamation says, "has
MSUlted In a rapprochment with
Greece's hereditary enemies, the vialotion
of the constitution. Internal anarchy
and isolation and contempt for
Greece, which the allies consider hostile
because she refused the 8erbs the
facilities accorded the Bulgars.
'The victorious army of 1912-1913
abandons the territory conquered by
the nation's blood; the population is
fleeing before the invaders; war material
has been given the Bulgars; Greek
soldiers have been sent to Germany by
way of Sofia, and patriots are regarded
as traitors.
"Our Duty Is to Save."
"Today is not the moment to establish
the responsibility. Our duty is to
save what there is still time to save.
To attain this it is essential to reestablish
national unity by an immediate
return to the policy dictated
by the national conscience, namely,
range ourselves on the side of the allies
and Serbians to expel the Invaders.
"It would be a happy event if, at the
eleventh hour, the king should decide to
take the lead of the national forces. In
a contrary event it is our duty to do the
needful to save the country from the
threatening ruin. We are entering the
struggle convinced that the nation, independently
of the state, will accomplish
the miracle and bring the country back
to the status of eighteen months ago.
(Signed ) "VENIZELOS,
"Coundouriotis."
BATTERY A TO EL PASO;
TROOP A TO SAN ANTONIO
Two Units of District Militia Directed
to En Train for Border
Destinations.
Orders for two of the three units
of District militia, now at Camp Ordway,
to entrain for the border were
received shortly after 1 o'clock today
from the Eastern Department.
Troop A. District Cavalry, is ordered
to San Antonio, Tex., and Battery A,
Field Artillery, to El Paso, according to
Lieut. George A. Monagon, acting adjutant
general of the camp. As yet no I
orders for the 3d Infantry to proceed I
have been received, but they are expected
any moment.
*? ~ nrpnnrn tlnno ?
J II U1C J- - -a U> V
going forward for getting the organization?
out as fast as possible. All the
equipment is being packed. It is merely
a question of wagon transportation to
the Rossiyn railroad yards and loading
it on the cars.
Nothing is known officially at the camp
as to the destination of the 3d Infantry.
The only information on that point
which the officers and men have is
through press dispatches from Gen.
Funston's headquarters, saying the 3d j
Infantry would go into camp at San Antonio.
1
The War Department this morning
made public a copy of Gen. Funston's
telegram designating the troops which
were to be returned to their state j
mobilization camps. The 1st Separate I
Battalion of District Infantry, colored i
troops, was named as one of the organizations
selected to return.
In view of this, the large detachment
of colored recruits now at Camp Ordway
will not see border service, but will be
mustered out when the organization returns
to camp.
Survivor of Herrimac Fight Die*.
FOND DU I.AC. Wis.. September 29
Christopher Price, member of the crew
of the Monitor In its tight with the Merrlmac
during the civil war, has died at
his home at Stockbrldge, aged seventynine
years. Price's death is said to leave
only one survivor of the Monitor's crew.
IMce^nevar draw a pension from the govk
k. i
r
i y^, i
THIRTY ARMED MEXICANS
CROSS AMERICAN BORDER
Flee When Discovered, One of Them
Deserting' Burro and Stolen
Carbine.
Gen. Funston notified the War Department
today that a band of thirty
armed Mexicans crossed into American
territory yesterday near Yaleta, Tex.,
but retreated across the Rio Grande
without firing, immediately their presence
was discovered.
The Mexicans belonged to the command
of Col. Revel, a Carranza officer.
With other de facto officials he has assured
Gen. Bell that the incident will
not be repeated.
Gen. Funston's Report.
[ Gen. Funston's report follows:
' "Yesterday about noon a small pa|
trol of the 8th Cavalry, from Yaleta,
[ discovered about thirty armed Mexi:
cans on the north side of the Rio
Grande about two miles west of Yaleta,
toward El Paso. All the Mexicans
were dismounted and concealed in the
| brush, except one, who had a burro
and was apparently on guard.
"The Mexicans all retreated across
the river. The mounted man left eo
hurriedly that he left his mount with
a Mauser carbine in the boot. This
carbine, which has a gun sling marked
K, 10th Cavalry, is now in our possession.
No shots were fired by either
side.
No Repetition Assured.
"These men belonged to the command
of Col. Revel, a Carranza officer.
This matter was at once taken up With
the Juarez authorities. It has been
promised there shall be no repetition
of this affair.
"Nothing was disturbed on this side.
The reasons for the crossing are not
known."
Troop K, 10th Cavalry, was the command
attacked by Carranza troops at
Carrizal.
WILLIAM J. KNIGHT DIES.
Member of Balding: Party Which
Created Civil War Sensation.
FINDI.AY. Ohio. September 29?Wllliam
J. Knight, seventy-eight years old,
who was a member of the famous Andrew
raiders' party, which stole a Confederate
I locomotive in Georgia in the civil war and
made a historic dash north several hundred
miles, is dead at his home in
Stryker.
Mr. Knight was the engineer who guided
the locomotive north until the Confederates
overtook the party which was
attempting to cut off the source of supply
of -the rebel troops. There are still four
members of the party alive.
ROOSEVELT TO TALK IN TENT.
Off to Battle Creek Before Return
to New York.
. NEW YORK, September 29. ? Theodore
Roosevelt leaves this afternoon '
for Battle Creek, Mich., where he will
| deliver tomorrow his second speech of
ithe present campaign. Republicans
and progressives have united In maki
ing arrangements for the speech, which
is to be delivered in a tent.
! After delivering his address Col.
Roosevelt will return to New York. He
plans to start on his western trip in
the second week in October and to
speak in Chicago, Indianapolis, Kansas
City, Denver and San Francisco.
Machine Records Heart Beats.
CHICAGO. September 29.?A machine
which records every motion of the
heart was exhibited today before the
convention of the American X-Bay Society.
It is called an electrocardiograph.
By its use. It was explained,
i physicians may Obtain exact records for
1 diagnosis of heart disease.
#
v_.
"Another By Bartlett"
Those who read "The Wall
Street Girl" in our SundayMagazine
will welcome another
love serial by Frederick
Orin Bartlett. It is
entitled "The Triflers," and
you will find the opening
chapters in the next Sunday
Magazine of The Sunday
Sfar.
HUGHES IS STUMPING
OLD BATTLEGROUND
Motors Through Muddy Streets
of Binghamton, N. Y., in
Rainstorm.
BINGHAMTON, N. Y.. September 29.?
Charles E. Hughes went over his old
! nolitical battle ground of New York state
again today. He left here at 4:30 o'clock
this morning.
Stops of an hour each were down on th
program for Binghamton, Elmlra and
Corning. The day will end with a night
address at Hornell, where he will spend
the night.
Tomorrow's program will carry him
through the state to Buffalo at night. He
will return to New York Sunday morning.
Caught in Rainstorm.
Mr. Hughes motored over muddy
streets throjgh the first rainstorm he
has experienced since commencing hit*
campaign August 5 to address an audience
in the opera house here. It was his
first speech of the day.
The strenuous program laid before
him by the national chairman was vetoed
by the nominee himself, who
merely appeared on the rear platform
of his car, so that the crowds might
! see him at stations between Saratoga
and Binghamton. It had been arranged
to have him speak at these
stations. At the last moment it was
decided to have local speakers take
his place, so that he might conserve
his voice.
Mr. Hughes spoke of the protective
tariff.
Facing Critical Period.
"I tell you, fellow citizens," he said,
"we. are facing a critical period. It is
Tin itime to be talking of a tariff for
revenue only. We need protection to
our Industries. There is no man in the
country today who can tell you where
the democratic party stands with respect
to protection of American interests.
"It takes all of us, too, to make the
; United States and to make our coun|
try prosperous. We'll never do it unless
labor and capital work together
amicably."
j The nominee renewed his attack on
' the administration for the Adamson
bill. He declared that he "would like
to see an eight-hour workday," but
that he stood squarely for Investigation
before legislation and would "not
yield an inch either to labor or capital"
In that principle.
DEPlJTY WAR MINISTER
OF GERMANY IS OUSTED
BERLIN. September 29, via London
3:56 p.m.?Gen von Wandei, deputy
minister for war, has been dismissed
from the war ministry, according to
an official statement given out by the
German government today.
J
LEVELS THREADS,
THEN FALLS10,OOP FEET
Guynemer Shoots Down All German
Craft in Two Minntes, Thirty
Seconds.
PARIS. September 29.?Three German
aeroplanes brought down in two minutes
and thirty seconds by a stop watch is the
. latest exploit of Second Lieut. Georges
Guynemer. Incidentally, Lieut. Guynemer,
| who is known as "king of the aces," fell
10,000 feet, but escaped unhurt.
Guynemer went to the assistance of a
comrade who was hard pressed by five
German machines. He brought down two
of them within thirty seconds, and then,
rising, overtook a third, which he shot
down two minutes later. He was looking
for the remaining two German machines
when a shell burst beneath him and stripped
the left wing of his aeroplane of every
' stitch of its covering. He plunged giddily
earthward.
Had Picture of Funeral.
"I gave myself up for lost," he said,
"but after falling 5,000 feet I thought I
would struggle all the same. The wind
blew me over our lines and, like a flash,
I I had a picture of my funeral and all
! my good friends following the coffin. I
continued to fall and the levers wouldn't
budge. In vain I pushed and pulled to
right and left. I made a last desperate
effort all to no purpose and then I saw
the field toward which I was dashing
I down. Suddenly something happened and
my speed diminished. Then there was a
resounding crash and a violent shock.
When I recovered my wits I was in
the midst of the fragments of my machine
and practically uninjured. How
am I still alive I asked myself. I believe
it was the straps which held me
i to my ?eat which saved me."
i On September .16 Lieut. _ Guynemer
was officially credited with his sixi
teenth enemy areoplane. A week later
he was reported to have brought down
> his seventeenth and eighteenth. He was
wounded in a fight in the air last
March and in a subsequent flight was
t forced to descend between the French
and German trenches, but escaped.
GEN. GIRODON IS KILLED.
Gen. Joffre to Supplant Older Army
Leaders With Young.
| LONDON, September 29.?Gen. Pierre
Girodon, one of the most brilliant of
the younger generals brought out by
the war, was among the killed in the
fighting on the Somme front September
i 23. He was colonel at the outbreak of
hostilities and was appointed chief of
staff of the 31st Army Corps, then of
tne orient expeditionary rorce. He was
shot through the lung in that expedi- 1
tion and on recovery was placed in '
command of the 12th Infantry Division. 1
The latest list of appointments con- 1
tains the names of ten generals placed
In the reserve to make way for younger !
and more energetic officers, pursuant to 5
Gen. Joffre's settled policy of keeping 1
the higher ranks up to their full 1
standard of efficiency. ]
NEW LORD MAYOR OF LONDON, j
Sir William Henry Dnnn Elected Today?Interested
in Poor.
, LONDON, September 29. 2:13 p.m.? j
Swr William Henry Dunn was today ,
elected lord mayor of London. ,
The new lord mayor, who will take j
office In November, will be the third j
Roman Catholic lord mayor of London (
In recent years. He was closely asso- (
elated with Sir William Treloar in the a
work of improving the condition of ,r
thousands of London's poor cripples, 1
and is treasurer of the Alton Cripples' (
Home. 1
r
RUSS SEVER ENEMY
LINEIN1I EAST
Austro-German Communications
Disturbed Some Miles
Above Kirlibaba.
SLAVS TAKE MOUNTAIN
AFTER FIERCE STRUGGLE
Brnssiloff Pushes Ahead on the Upper
Sereth?Has Taken 420,000
Prisoners.
PETROGRAD. September 29.?'The
Russian commander. Gen. Brussiloff,
has pushed forward his extreme left
durine recent davs to the hisrhwav run
ning between Kimpolung and Maramaros
Sziget, cutting: that important AustroGerman
line of communication some
miles above Kirlibaba. After a series
of desperate battles the Russians succeeded
in capturing a mountain overlooking
the highway, which gave them
an important strategic advantage. At
the same time they took a range of
mountains overlooking Kirlibaba.
According to the correspondent of the
Novoe Vremya, that town for the first
time in the campaign is under the fire
of the Russian cannon. Immediately to
the nortji of this district the Russians
forged ahead to the upper reaches of
the Charny-Cheremosh, where the
stream bends southward to Kuty (Bukowina).
Advance Against Odds.
The extremely difficult mountainous
country is offering every advantage to
the defenders and the advance has been
made against tremendous odds.
A noteworthy success has been
achieved by Gen. Brussiloff's center in
the neighborhood of Manouva and
Kharbuzoff, villages on the upper
Sereth, where the Russians have made
an advance in the face of strong German
reinforcements, capturing 1,500
Austro-German prisoners.
A recapitulation of the prisoners and
booty taken by Gen. Brussiloff's army,
as sent out by the staff, shows a total,
since the offensive began, of 420,000 officers
and men taken prisoner, and the
capture of 2,500 machine guns and mine
throwers and -600 cannon.
Successful Air Raid.
An official statement issued today by
the Russian war department says:
"Western front?In the region of
Boruny and Krevo, southwest of Smorgon,
our aviators made a raid on points
in the rear of the enemy's lines. Bombs
were successfully dropped at various
places, causing explosions and fires
among the enemy's stores. Bombs also
were dropped on wagons, on narrow
gauge railway stations and on motor
car transports.
"During the raid an aerial fight took
place as the result of which four German
aeroplanes were brought down.
One of our machines, after a fight with
two aeroplanes of the Albatross type, I
fell in the enemy's line. In addition
we lost a machine of the Moran parasol
type.
Enemy Offensive Checked.
In the neighborhood of Gukalov the
enemy, after an intense artillery bombardment
of our trenches, assumed the
offensive. Being met by our rifle and
machine gun fire he retired hurriedly to
his trenches.
"On the River Bystritza, in the region
of Bogorodchan, our scouts surprised
three field sentries and defeated the
enemy advance posts, capturing in this
operation several scores of prisoners,
twenty rifles and 300 cartridges.
Vienna Heports Successes.
VIENNA, via London, September 29.?
"Front of Archduke Charles Francis:
Southeast of the three-country angle,
north of Kirliababa, in the Ludowa district
and north of Arata pass, the enemy
delivered fruitless attacks. South
of Lipnicadolna the German troops advanced
successfully. Russian prisoners
to the number of 130, together with
machine guns, were captured.
"Army group of Gen. von Terztanszky:
The forces under Gen. von Marwitz
recaptured, after bitter fighting,
the last portion remaining in the hands
of the enemy of positions we lost a
week ago. The enemy suffered ex
ranrdinarilv heavv Iossps Thpv alar.
lost forty-one officers and 2,800 men
prisoners, one cannon and seventeen
machine guns.
REFUSE TO ADMIT DEFEAT
IN N. Y. STREET CAR STRIKE
Labor Union Officials Still Claim
Neary 200,000 Workers Are Out.
Some Disappointment.
NEW YORK, September 29.?Labor
union officials who attempted to organize
a general strike here and in
Westchester county in sympathy with
the striking street car men refused today
to admit defeat and still claimed
that nearly 200,000 workers had quit.
They announced, however, that efforts
to call out others would be postponed
until Monday, when a meeting of the
local federated unions will be held to
consider what action shall be taken.
Hugh Frayne, chairman of the joint
labor conference committee which has
directed the endeavors to call out all
the trade unions, explained the postponement
of further action by saying
that many of the "unions had not had i
time to consider the strike call.
The most serious disappointment ,
suffered by the labor chiefs was the ;
iction yesterday of the allied building
trades with a membership of 100,000 1
ind the teamsters' union of 20,000 mem- i
bers in postponing a decision on the ,
strike issue. ,
The strikers in trades outside the
3treet car men include about 10,000 3
arewery workers and machinists. 1
J. T. McCutcheon Buys an Iiland.
CHICAGO, September 29. ? John T.
dcCutcheon. cartoonist, has purchased 1
in island in the south Atlantic ocean
lear the Bahama group. The island 1
s three and a half miles long and a '
ittle more than a mile wide and is !
lown on the admiralty charts as Salt 1
lay Island. To mariners it is known I
is Treasure Island, because of the
nany legends of buried gold which <
>irate chieftains placed there in the
lays when the rovers of the sea plied i
heir calling. i
.a,.: 1
NEW ALLIED DRIVES
GAIN MORE GROUND
IN SOME REGIONS
French Smash Forward Be
tween Fregicourt and Morval
Toward Sailly.
BRITISH SEIZE FARM
SOUTHWEST OF LE SARS
Also Take Most of Schwaben Bedonbt,
Overlooking Ancre
Valley.
ADVANCE NEAR COTJRCELETTE
German Commander Praises Enemy
Efforts?Teuton Ammunition Probably
Destroyed by Explosion
North of Ytres.
LONDON, September 29.?
New drives made by the French
last night and the British this
morning resulted in the capture of
additional ground on the Somme
front by the allies.
The French gain, as reported
in the afternoon Paris bulletin,
was effected between Fregicourt
and Morval, in the. direction of
Sailly, on the Peronne-Bapaume
road north of Rancourt, where
the wedge being driven into the
German lines between Bapaume
and Peronne is almost at its
sharpest point.
The new ground won by the
British, as reported by London,
lies something more than a quarter
of a mile southwest of Le Sars,
on the Pozieres-Bapaume road,
northeast of Courcelette. Le Sars
is about three and one-half miles
from Bapaume, toward which the
British in this sector are determinedly
pressing. The captured
territory comprised a strongly deC
I I c
IC11UCU l&l lii.
Gain Most of Redoubt.
The British late yesterday attacked
Schwaben redoubt, most of which is in
their hands. In the last twenty-four
hours in this area nearly 600 prisoners
were taken. The redoubt occupies a
crest 500 yards north of Thiepval and
represents the highest ground on the
Thiepval spur, with a ful view over the
northern valley of the Ancre.
Elsewhere the British consolidated
ground and advanced lines north and
northeast of Courcelette.
British aeroplanes, as usual, in the
last two days co-operated brilliantly
with the infantry. Much damage was
done to enemy batteries and there have
been many instances of their aeroplanes
attacking troops and transports
on the ground with machine gun fire.
German Lauds British.
A captured report of the fighting on
the Somme, issued by the commander
of a German corps which* participated
in the battle, contains a tribute to the
quality of the British troops, as follows:
" 'The British infantry is smart in attack,
largely because of immense confidence
and great artillery superiority.
One must admit the skill with which
they consolidate themselves in a* newly
gained position. They show great tenacity
in defense. Small parties, when
once established with machine guns in
the corner of a wood or a group of
houses, are very difficult to dislodge.'
"The following sentence shows the effects
of our artillery:
" 'Hitherto our instructions, from experience
gained in defense and attack,
were based on a carefully constructed
trench system. The troops on the
Somme front found actually no trenches
at all.' "
London Official Report.
The British official statement of today
follows:
"The night was quiet on the greater
part of our front. The positions we
have won north of Thiepval were heavily
shelled. Our bombing parties were
active in the neighborhood of the
1 Q n rl tha Uaaalon
ocnwaoen icuwuui ?*n? i?t i>cao>an
trench, parts of which are still held by
the enemy.
"A strongly defended farm 500 yards
southwest of Le Sars was captured by
our troops early this morning:.
"North of Ytrea and southeast of Bapaume
our aeroplanes observed a huge
explosion as if a large ammunition
dump had been blown up. The smoke
ascended 9,000 feet."
A Reuter dispatch from Amsterdam
quotes German war correspondents as
admitting: the German loss of Combles.
The Frankfurter Zeitung says that
the defenders, a regiment strong, escaped
to the German lines during the night
despite the fact that they were sur- .
rounded by the Anglo-French forces.
Herr Wegener, in the Cologne Gaeette,
says that Thiepval was voluntarily
evacuated.
French Communication.
The text of the French statement
follows:
"On the Somme front our troops
scored fresh progress between Fregi;ourt
and Morval. Both north and
south of the river there have been artillery
engagements of varying intensity.
"Everywhere else the night was
juiet.
"During the day yesterday a Fokker
teroplane was attacked by our pilots
tnd crashed to the ground north of
$
