THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TW KNTY-SEVENTH YEAH
8 r4r, PHOENIX, ARIZONA, FRIDAY MORNING, SEPTEMBER 29, 1916
8 PAGES
VOL. XXVII., NO. 133
QMS
ME
BOMBS
AT
P0SRKN6
DURING I OF CONSTRUCTION
GERMANS. FORCES OF ALLIES
KEEP IIP TREIR B0HD1WT
' (By Republican A. P. Leased Wire)
Except for a fresh British attack, which gave them the greatest part of
a German redoubt north of Thiepval and 600 prisoners, the troops of the en
tente in the region between the Somme and Ancre rivers in France, ap
parently are taking a breathing spell and consolidating positions captured in
the great offensive which began last Monday and has already netted them
Combles, Thiepval and other strong German positions at various points along
the twenty-mile front.
During the work of construction, however, the big guns of the British
and French are hurling tons of steel against the new German ositions. An
other attack, with Bapaume and Peronne the objectives, is forecast.
Meanwhile, a big battle is in progress on the eastern front in the region
between Lutsk and Vladimir, Volhyrski, around Sviniusky and Korynitza,
where Russians are attempting to advance, but the Teutons are impeding
them by heavy counter attacks. The German war office says these counter
attacks in the region of Korynitza havo resulted in the recapture of posi
tions lost recently by the Teutons. Heavy casualties were inflicted on the
Russians, says Berlin, and in addition 41 officers and 2800 men were taken
prisoners.
In Galicia, the Germans west of Krasnolesie also pushed forward their
lines, while in the Carpathians attacks by Russians were repulsed in hand-to-hand
fighting.
The Russian general staff announcas that since General Brussiloff be
gan his offensive, 420.CCO officers and men of the Teutonic allies have been
made prisoner and 600 cannon and 2500 machine guns and mine throwers
have been captured.
Around Petroseny and Hermannstadt, in Transylvania, Teutonic allies
and Rumanians are engaged in bitter fighting, but with no important re
sults. Paris reports repulse of Bulgarian attacks on both sides of Fiorina.
There have been bombardments by British of positions of the central pow
ers by land batteries near Doiran and by warships in the Aegean sea.
An infantry attack by the Austrians in the upper Cordevole valley,
Rome says, was repulsed.
Greece"s entry into the war on the ride of entente allies has not yet been
announced. An unofficial dispatch from Athens gives the text of the procla
mation of a provisional government in Crete by former Premier Venizelos
and Admiral Coundouriotis, which declares that if the king should decide
not to take the lead of the national forces, "it is our duty to do the needful
thing to save the country from the threatening ruin."
North of Thieoval
LONDON Sept. The British
forces nave capturea me sreaur iin
i.f a Gennan r. doubt north of Thiep-
VWIUII ei inc. lluil'iciil lai-
ley of the Ancre, taking nearly 000
trisoners, according to the official
Ktateirent from general V.eadquarter
issued at midnight.
Takes Schwaben Redoubt
WITH THK BRITISH ARMIES IX J
TUB HELD IX FRANCE, Sept. 28,
Via London, Sept. 29) "You have
Just time to get into a tree top and
Kee us go after the iSthwaben re-
d -ilit." said a staff general to the
cnrresionil-nt of the Associated Press ,
today. !
Attacks have been so numerous;
along the British front in the last fe'v j
ilavs that even If Informed of all be- '
fore hand, the correspondents would
nave to possess a ouai r;. ij "
be present at nil. The offensive is m
'lie oi lis mt-uv-uii. siae. uui is-ie-
i , .. i. i. ..,;j ,i ,
ausu..,, .......
leys fury
Schwaben redoubt is bevond Thiep
al which was taken Tuesday. A
crowned this "ridge
d became the center of
"Where it Htoo
th- strongest defense German industry
and ingenuity could build. This was
the goal of the Ulstermen in their,
heroic charpe on July 1. when thev
fell face forward under the storm of
m o hine gun fire i.er.
of the former shrine.
from the site,
In nil the ueeW sinco .Tnlv 1 thr
I'ritish made no further attempt at
this hill. Their trenches were in the
same place as before that day. The
No man's land." or "Dead Space," ,
' ' -
remai.'ioii wnere it vfs wnn tne i .er-; vancing waves of khaki,
mans first formed their defensive lincj There are creeping artillery barrages
Idit while the British were swinging and Jumping barrages and many kinds
from the south, where the grand at- as the guns come playing an increas
tack on July had succeeded they had ingly skillful part. And the Germans
given Thiepval and Schwaben redoubt I came back, their shells screaming
a fair dailv allowance of shell fire, through the British shell curtain, try
thoiiKh mnkinr no infantry attack. ing to check the human waves. But
For nearly thre" month? this soft-' unless their curtains were1 laid in the
rnlng process continued. Then when right place they were waste. A line of
the Eritish had gained- the ridges infantry may be fairly safe with a cur
running at an angle with the old Ger- tn'n shell fire a hundred yards on either
man line of Thiepval thev began to side. ! rMV
ti.-o fn 'iteret in that old first. Tomorrow those waves may break
line. Now they did not have to at-1
t r-y it in front but nnneired in from fContlnued on Page Threo -
BIG SYMPATHETIC WALKOUT IN
NEtllfORKDOES NOT MATERIALIZE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK. Sept. 28. The widely
exploited sympathetic "walk-out" of
trades unionists in Greater New York
In aid of the striking car men, which
was supposed to have started yester
day, had not materialized tonight, ac
cording to the police. The labor lead
ers, however, claimed that upwards of
140.000 workers actually had quit their
places but refused to make public the
names of any unions answering the
call. The police declared they were
unable to find any evidence of a general
Htrike.
A meeting late today of representa
tives of 36 unions of the United Uuild
iuir Trades, comprising a membership
of more than 100,000, refused to take
any action In the sympathetic strike
movement, it was announced. They
Kimply voted, according to their spokes
man, to refer the question back to the
unions themselves and adjourned until
next Wednesday.
The longshoremen and tidewater
boatmen, numbering about 34,000, also
failed to take any definite action. A
resolution passed by 41 longshoremen's
unions said the men stood ready and
willing to quit in sympathy with the
car men "whenever, in their judgment,
a strike is necessary," when they are
ordered out by their international
president, T. V. O'Connor. Members
asserted that the prospect of O'Con
nor calling a strike was remote, be
cause of existing contracts.
The International Brotherhood of
Teamsters held a secret meeting but
the result was not disclosed.
For the first time since the car strike
began, iSeptember 8, many Burface cars
were oiw-ratnd today without police
guards. Numerous cars without wire
netting to protect niotormen and con
i WASHINGTON. Sept. 28. The fed
tiie side as well as having it In a eral farm loan board returned to
crushing vice. ' Washington today after a tour through
One German officer, who was cap-
turcd he did pot think tlu, Brit
.si g(,0(, enolla). poI(erR to attack ii
iroort enouar soldiers 10 aitacK in
this wiv. which was iust the way the
i'ritisr did attack after their lesson the twelve banks authorized under
of July 1. "And we hope the Germans the rural credits law. The tour be
will continue to think us stupid," gan at Augusta, Maine. August 21.
said a Pritish sti'ff officer. ! and took the board to the Pacific
But bevond Thiepval was that last coast, and as far south as Missouri,
commanding high ground south of the A similar trip will be taken soon
Ancre. Bare and brown it looked through other states in the south and
this morninc and distinct were the southwest.
fJerman trenches, which we're going' In a statement tonight the board
f g"t if at a eiven moment.
Meanwhile all alona th iine of
h'.,. ,k ,,j,.' -m
which has been maintained without
ntermssion of iate Thi8 kwps tne
(jermans alwnvs under strain, de-
,. Wnt-ira t.',t n. thev
ean Thev never know when or
wher FUCj, things as happened this
mnrnins at schwaben redoubt may
unnr,
happen.
And suddenly balls of smoKe, so thieK
that they soon became a. cloud, were:
lniri ,.vC; th r.0rmn fir.t lin on the I
ri. .rv n. hr.,n fmm ,n 1
nashss ng "death
,aid iu grippin clinging mantle over .
fhi. ,r..-h ,hnLo inmatoa ronlH anr-
vjve ()nly by hupgjnp thelr dugouts.
v, vn -.,h , ,n I
,ma-inarv lines of tane laid for the!
guidance of the gunners.
" !j T " m Ix. .. I
when the rain of steel ceased, the !
I Rritish soldiers, timiner their arrival to
!. : ':.... .i.. . .
lis Lroaiiuii, ncic Liitr uainut'i i
and at the doors of the dugouts. Then
on to the next trench in the same
fashion. The waves of shell fire swept
Up the hillside as shields for the ad-
ductors also were put in commission.
The service generally, it was an
nounced, was improved, cars being op
erated even in suburban towns affected
by the strike. Officials of the transit
companies asserted that the attempt to
tie up the industries of the greater city
by a sympathetic "walk-out" of union
workers in the various trades had been
a failure.
The possibility of a strike of motor
men on subway and elevated lines be
ing ordered by the Brotherhood of Lo
comotive Engineers was said by union
men mcmselves to be remote, inasmuch
as the motormen now are earning from
a to u a any. interborough Rapid
Transit officials asserted thev did not
anticipate any trouble from the broth
erhood. Dr. Montezuma
Give Dr. Coolidge Licking
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CEDAK RAPIDS, Iowa, Sept. 28.
M , the second day's session of the
Society of American Indians here, an
pac.'ne challenged an Arapahoe to
comoat during a clash over a resolu
tion proposing the abolition of the
federal Indian bureau.
Dr. Sherman L. Montezuma, . an
Apach" in the course of an impas
sioned speech attacking the Indian
burea.i as inefficient, directed his
remarks at Dr. Sherman Coolidge of
Colorado, an Arapahoe Indian, presi
dent of the society and a former
Hughes Denies Urged
OVER ONE
D
MICHIGAN CENTRAL BANDITS I
ARE STILL AT LARGE I
I DETROIT, Mich.. Sept. 28 The
i robbers who held up the New
I York-Chicago express on the
Michigan Central railroad, ten
! miles west of here last night.
j well still at large late today. (
j Government detectives and De-
troit. officers, at the head of
! searching posses said no clues !
I had been obtained. One of the i
I two registered mail pouches which j
I were taken from the mail car was !
i found today about 100 yards from !
I where the robbers stopped the
i train. The pouch was slit and !
I was empty. I
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
twenty-nine states to gatner infor
mation for its guidance in dividing
tne country into twelve lanu iun
districts, and designating the sites of
.expressed satisiaction over me re
suits and predicted that the plan of
putting farm loan banks into opera-
Hon before February I next, could be
carried out.
The Keenest Interest In the federal
farm loan act was manifested by
farmers of every class of people In the
V''"'"" c ""'"
vTh? law was universally approved
by farmers, business men and bank
ers, who assured the board of their
.71;; . ;,, ,,. ri0. i
Tne nd for. the federal farm
was especially emphasized by
nequ.litie. In interest rates
?sc. J , Jn i"S8' ele.rat's
ranging from five per cent per an
num to fve per cent per month. It
was Rnown l" every state visited that
even tne industrious farmer of mod-
est means, wno naa only a small
I farm, but who could offer unques
tionable security, was unable to get
' "
creuit on any terms
In many states it was found that
the farmer was never certain that he
could effect a. loan, however good the
mortgage security, and that the inci
dental delays were serious and fre
quently defeated the purpose of the
loan.
"In several states it was called to
the attention of the board that the
joint stock land bar.ks were being
organized hv questionable means by
stock salesmen or promoters who are
taking advantage of the farmers'
desire for loan on the amortized plan
to sell stock to farmers. Farmers
are advised that there is no necessity
for subscribing to the stock of any
private corporation for the purpose of
securfng such a loan and are cau
tioned not to do so except on an im
proved basis. The board suggests
that farmers make no investments
in such land banks until they have
first inquired of the federal farm loan
hoard, at Washington, as to the char
acter and responsibility of such or
ganizations and of the men who are
organizing thein. No Joint stock land
banks can lie organized under the
federal act except with the approval
of the federal farm loan board."
, KILLED IN ACTION
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON, Sept. 29. General Pierre
Girodon, ore of the most brilliant of
thu younger generation brought out by
the war, was among the killed in the
fighting of the Somme front on Sep
tember 23.
NEGOTIATIONS COMPLETED
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BERNE, Switzerland, Sept. 29 (Via
Paris) Dr. Arthur Hoffman, foreign
minister today announced that econ
omic negotiations between Germany
and Switzerland had been completed
satisfactorily. It was arranged h
said that each country should supply
o tho other what was urgently need
ed for home consumption except such
articles as Switzerland had bound it
"If not to export.
Qffers To
member of the federal bureau.
"I am an Apache," he shouted, "and
vou are an Arpahoe. I can lick you.
My tribe has licked your tribe be
fore." "I'm from Missouri," shouted Dr.
Coolidge, and the laughter that fol
lowed broke the tension.
Both sessions of the conference
wore heated. The treatment ac
cordd the Chippewa Indians by the
tovernment presented an opportunity
tor severe criticism and heated de-
ronse of the work of the Indian
bureau.
TOUR OF FARM
It! BOH IS
BROUGHT IB El
HUNDRED VILLBTAS ARE KILLED
SEVERE BUTTLE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHIH L'AHUA CITY, Mex., Sept. 2S.
Over a hundred Villistas were
killed, the bandit leader liaudelio
L'ribe taken prisoner and heay cas
ualties suffered by Carrancisia forces
in a terrific tight at Cusihuiriachic, an
important mining center about no
miles southwest of Chihuahua City,
according to a message received this
afternoon by General Trevino from
General Matias Ramos, who himself
was slightly wounded.
1 he details of the fight were few
II
CUSIIRIRIC
'ind merely appended to the request ofjtrary to expectations, no progressives
General Ramos for surgeons and med- were nominated. Vacancies were left
ical supplies. A hospital corps de-'in six congressional districts, how
tachment was accordingly rushed to ever, and members of that party may
the scene by train. ; '
It is stated that the garrison .it
Cusihuiriachic co-operated with the
forces of Ramos, but whether they
were attacked or had been the ag-.
gressors. does not appear. f
BaudeOii t ribe, leader of the band
and Villa's chief lieutenant was the!
originator of the idea of cutting off.
'he ears or captured 'government sol
diers. Many others of his command
are reiorted to have been made pris
oner News of the fight was also received
here from the telegraober at Santa I
'sabel who added nothing to the re-!
oort of General Ramos. The general's '
official report Wfs sent bv way of,
that town, to which the hospital train
ttas len dispatched.
santa Isabel is 33 mues oy train
from Chihuahua. The Mexico North-,
westerp railway njakes a lpop to Cu.xi-
nuiriachtc from Santa Isabel, while
the cirect distance between the tj soon. Both democrats and repub
towns is about 23 miles. . licans had officially endorsed state-
Troops continue to pour into Chi- wide prohibition, and their candidates
huihua City from the south to par- are making it the big issue. Hence,
ticipate Mn the Villa hunt. General ' with the outlook so promising, the dry
Apolonio Trevino's command arrived campaigners today patted all parties
from Torreon today and paraded on the back for their local promises,
through the streets. The horbes of criticised them for not making their
this command were in good condition national conventions stand for prohi
m! the troops will be sent into the bition, virtually decided not to p it a
field in pursuit of Villa at once. state ticket in the field this fall, and
General Fortunato Maycotte is ex- tonight went joyfully on their way to
nected to arrive here soon with his Wyoming.
command from the Laguna district ! Utah's reception was cordial. From
near Torreon. The command of Gen- Price down the line to here, at Spring-
eral Carlos Ozuna is now en route vil.e. Provo, Midvale, Salt Lake City
from f'allillo to reinforce the garrison and Farmington, enthusiastic audi
here, and a command from Monterey ences met the party to applaud every
under Colonel Muzquiz, is also on the
road.
Reoort Fight at Indio
PRESIDIO. Tex.. Sept 28. A report
hat nine American soldiers crossed
to the Mexican side at Indio. 20 mile ; reason the republican national con
up the Rio Grande from here and he- j vention did not endorse prohibition
ame involved in a fight in which
:hrce Americans and four Mexicans
,vere killed, reached here today from
invate sources. The nvlitarv authori
ties, however, say they have no con
firmation cf the report. It was salt
that the Mexicans were having a
'ance at Indio at the time, but the
cause of the trouble is not stated
Villa with 2.000 followers, is within
thirty miles of Ojinaga according to
-i report here which claims Carranza
officers at Oiinaea as its authority.
A conference between Colonel Rio-
ias, chief of arms of the const itu-
'lonalist troops at Ojinaga, converred
yesterday with Major A. V. P. Ander
son, commanding the American garri
son at Presidio. Neither side would
say what matters were discussed.
Arredondo At Laredo
LAREDO. Texas. Sept. 28. Eliseo
(Continued on Page Two)
o
New Blackmail
Scheme on Roads
Over State Lines
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW " YORK. Sept. 28. A black
mailing scheme reported to be in
npertion on railroads crossing state
lines by which attractive women
swindle male travelers with the aid
of men confederates, is being inves
tigated by special agents of the de
partment of justice it was disclosed
here today.
au-lnrtla wna
Information of the
sent anonymously to
Tv, r- t" ODI,it 'ji.s; .
tornev, who is in charge of tbe'Martine is not a .fit man to preresent
"blackmail syndicate" cases in New state in the United States senate.
York and other cities , If the president had kept his hands
The informant to!4 Mr. Knox that
while traveling recently from Port
land. Oregon, to St. Louis, he was
nearly trapped by one of the women,
and afterwards learned from a pull-
man porter that the "badger game"
was being played by women traveling
reguiariy on tnat une.
i RETURN FALSE TEETH
CONSIGNED TO GERMANY t
I
! LONDON Sent '8 in ronner- I
I tion w ith the tecent relonsu. fnr I
I the return to America of a con
I slgnment of false teeth addressed
to i.ermany. an official of the I
I admiralty said tnriav that I
I the recent seizures of iih . I
I sisted of 100 dozen sets some hav- I
I ing rubber plates and others com- I
I posd of materials supposedly I
I needed badly in Germany I
; j-j
Filibuster Against Adamson Bill
PLEDGES SUPPORT OF
E VER Y STAND OF HUGHES
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SARATOGA SPRINGS, Sept. 2S.
Generous support of every 'stand
Charles E. Hughes has taken in his
campaign for the presidency and
realty endorsement of Governor
Whitman's administration, marked
the platform which the republicans in
slate conference here adopted tarly
tonight.
An eleventh hour change in the
plans of the leaders eliminated from
the platform as adopted by the ten
tative plank intended to place the
arty on record as favoring a return
to the system of nominating st;
ficers by convention. The toeli
state of-
toelief fin
ally prevailed that it was inadvisable
to recommend the change at this
time.
Prior to the final business session
of the conference, the slate commil-
tee selected uresidential electors. Con
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
OGDEN. I'tah. Sept. 28. Every-
where the prohibition national cam-1
paigners went in L'tah they. were, told j
that the state is certain to - go dry
suggestion of a dry state and shout
back assurances that it was coming.
The state is wet now only because of
Governor Spry's recent veto.
X Frank Hanly, the presidential
candidate, charged today that the
, was that it had been packed with rep-
resentatives of the liquor interests "by
i such men as Charles Warren Fair-
banks."
"Fairbanks would not sign a remon
strance in Indiana," he said, "because
I he is trying to hold the German liquor
, vote."
"If l'tah had prohibition." Dr. Ira
Landrith said, "vou could walk on dry
land from the (Atlantic to the Pacific.
Whv not fall in the big white line.'
I The sneeial train left here tonight
for Wyoming Rawlins, laramie ana
: Cheyenne, and Greeley and Denver,
(Special to The Republican)
NEW YORK, Sept. 2S. Comment
ing upon the results of the primaries
in New JeTsey and Massachusetts
this week. William R. Willcox, chair
man of the republican national com
mittee, said today that more hard
hintra lmd heen dealt to the demo
cratic proposition that the president
I is stronger than nis party
"In both New Jersey and Massa-
rhusetts" said Mr. Willcox, 'It was
made incontestibly clep.r that the fa
vor of Mr. Wilson is a source of
weakness with the people and that
the opposition of tne presiaeni iu
i to give a candidate popular uii.
All New Jersey knows that Mr.
off . M.irtine would have been de
feated easily and overwhelmingly.
Rv.t the New Jersey democrats re
sented the interference of the presi
dent, and even more than that they
resented the impression sedulously
1 spread abroad by the democratic
iniimm-iB mm m:
r-i I tine would be a signal triumph of
( presidential influence. So they saw
I
to it that it was not Martine out
i President Wilson who was defeated
I in th primaries. The Massachusetts
! ease is on all Tours with that of New
jerwey. jeiieiill V me, Lltr mt-i man,
much more fitted to represent Masa
chusetts in the senate, had the handi
cap of President Wilson s onen sup
port. The federal office holdeis took
ic TniniiTAu
iu iulu u i tin
1
OPPOSITION OF WILSON GIVES
CANDIDATE POPULAR STRENGTH
oft tneir cmls and went to it as hard j nandez planned and carried out the
aa ever they could. Mr. Mansfield i Columbus raid after being sent out by
the l",onent of General Cole, much 1 Villa from Ascension to steal cattle.
'e" widely known m the state, had The letter adds that Villa became en-
in his favor chiefly the fact of thejraged when he learned what had been
lie selected to fill these.
It had been expected that at least
six progressives would be named and
that the progressive state committee
would indorse the coalition ticket and
fail to place a ticket of their own in
the field. However, word reached re
Publican State Chairman Tanner late
in the day that the progressives then
requested eight places on the ticket.
He declined to grant this, and the
committe adjourned to meet again In
"New .York October 3.
Besides praising the presidential and
gubernatorial candidates of the party,
the platform declared for a re-submission
of the woman suffrage in
1917. condemned the national defense
act, criticized the recent mobilization
of the Mexican frontier as an ex
ample of the "viciousness" of the ad
ministration's preparedness policy, de
nounced the I'nderwood tariff bill,
condemned the Adamson eight-hour
law, end took a firm stand for the
principle of arbitration of industrial
disputes.
WILSON BEGINS
HIS CAMPAIGN
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
long BRANCH, N. J., Sept. 28. In
a message opening his'campaWn of
letter writing. President Wilson de-
ciarea tonight that "the auestion is
about to be determined whether we
snail Keep the nation upon its present
terms of peace and good will with the
world or turn to radical changes of
policy which may alter the whole
aspect of the nation's life."
The president wrote the letter to
Miss Leona I Larrahee. president of
the Women's Democratic club of Port
land, Ore., thanking her for work be
ing done in his behalf by the organi
zation. "I cannot help having the feeling."
said the president's letter, "that the
intelligent women of Oregon need no
suggestion or intimation from me as
to what are the real issues of the
present campaign or the real concern
that women must have with these is
sues. As a very sincere advofrr'e of
the extension of the suffra-re to
women, it seems to me a very great
disservice to the cause that partisan
use should be made of it. particularly
at a time so critical as this, when the
question is about to be determined
whether we shall keep the nation upon
its present terms of peace and good
will with the world or turn to radical
changes of policy which may alter the
whole aspect of the nation's life."
(Continued on Page Two".
Colo., will be visited tomorrow.
.no answer was received here to a
telegram sent President Wilson last
night from the campaign party, asking
how he stood on prohibition. He had
been requested to reply here.
IT NOTES
president s opposition. And that was for jf th(? administr;tion had
more than enough to overcome all his desired to know the facts before so
other difficulties and land the prize ti. it had abundant opportunity on
for him. Johnson and McGillicuddy, ' 'be solicitation of the business of the
in ftfiafne, were the first sacricicial United States."
offerings to this resentment against "V, at is the administration's rec-
presalent Wilson. The incidents are
now sufficiently numerous to be con
clusively indicative of a general feel
ing. It is evident from its appearance
in widely separated parts of the coun
try that it is not due to local condi
tions but to nation-wide dissatisfac
tion with the policy of the national
administraton."
Trying to Extablish an
Alibi For Pancho Villa
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
EL PASO. Texas, Sept. 28. Further
efforts to establish an, alibi for Fran
cisco Villa at Columbus and Santa
Ysabel are being made on the Amer
ican side of the Rio Grande. This
movement is said here to be fathered
, by persons interested in starting an-
i other revolution against the de facto
; government.
The latest evidence of this effort is
a letter purported to have been writ
ten by one of Villa's minor officers,
stating that Pablo Lopez, Jesus Gar
cia. C. Cervantes and Nicolas Her-
IF
TH
TO ADOPT BILE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SARATOGA SPRINGS, N. Y., Sept.
28. Charles E. Hughes tonight told the
republican unofficial convention here
that he had no', urged republican sena- 1
tors to fillibuster "to the last ditch"
against .the passage of the Adamson
eight -hour law, passed to avert the
threatened railroad strike. The nom
inee declared Jie did not believe in fili
bustering, for one thing, and that if
th? majority in congress had deter
mined to pass the bill there was no
reason whatever why its passage should
have been delayed by filibustering
tactics.
"It (the administration) acted with
swiftness," Mr. Hughes said, "and it
cannot row cry that a republican can
didate a thousand miles away should
have saved it from carrying out its
fixed determination."
'The nominee read to the convention
correspondence between Chairman
Newlands of the senate interstate
commerce committee, and Harry A.
Wheeler, chairman of the committee on
railroad situation of the chamber of
comn.erce of the United States, and
President Wilson none of the letters
was from ti e president, but he was ad
dressed in the correspondence to up
hold his contention that 300,000 firms
and corporations in the country had
asked the president to take action be
fore the threatened strike situation be
came acute. Mr. Hughes also quoted
an extract from the president's address
to congress on the subject to support
hir claim that the bill should not have
betn passed.
A question asked by Richard Olney,
secretary of state under President
Cleveland, as to whether Mr. Hughes
had not urged rpu'Mican senators to
filibuster against the bill was made thi
occasion for Mr. Hughes' declaration.
He said: "He Eays, referring to the
recent railroad situation, that I object
not to the averted strike, but to the
mode of its accomplishment, to wit:
Bv the; threat of a strike within a time
too short, for due consideration of nec
essary legislation. I am not prepared
to admit the necessity of wage increase
by law. but I do object in every fibre
of my being to legislation under duress.
I object to the surrender of the execu
tive to force. That is :he path of dis
aster. If the distinguished ex-secretary
of state desires to take the nation
along that path I will not accompany
him.
"He asks why I did not urge t-wei.ty-eight
republican senators to filibuster
to the last ditch. Well, I do not believe
in filibustering, for one thing. . If con
gress, through its majority, was deter
mined to pass the bill, there was no
reason why its action should be merely
delayed by filibustering. Arguments
alung this line really come to this that
in some way the administration should
have been saved from itself.
"The truth is that the executive de
stroyed the mora' strength of the sit
uation when he threw up his hands,
yielded the principle of arbitration and
went to conicress demanding thb rail
way wage bill as the price of peace.
Congress, so far as the moral of the
situation was Concerned, ratified a sur
render already made. The administra
tion chose its ground; it selected its
ground carefully and with a few par
tisan followers."
Mr. Hughes' citation from President
Wilson's address to congress was a
brief one. The part quoted followed
the president's declaration that "I yield
to no man in firm adherence alike of
conviction and of purpose to the prin
ciple of arbitration in industrial dis
putes, and was a part of the same
sentence, which was as follows:
"But matters have come to a sudden
crisis in this particular dispute and the
country has been caught unprovided
with any practicable means of enforc
ing that conviction in practice, by
whose fault we will not now stop to
inquire."
After declaring that "Here was
American business, a month before the
railroad crisis, asking for an inquiry,"
Mr. Hughes continued:
, ' -' nugnes said, after declaring
that the administration could not cry
out that a republican candidate should
have saved it from "carrying out its
fixed determination." -
"And I submit to the American people
that it is a record of humiliation.
(Continued on Page Three)
done, and had dismissed all of his
commanders.
This is in direct opposition to the
statement of Mrs. Maud Wright, the
American woman who was a prisoner
of Villa and who was released the day
preceding the Columbus attack. She
claimed to have seen Villa leading his
men toward Columbus.
It is also stated by friends of Villa
here that he will be able to prove an
alibi for himself at the time of the
Santa Ysabel massacre, at which
eighteen Americans and other foreign
ers were killed. An effort will be
made. Villa's friends here declare, to
convince General Hugh L. Scott, chief
of staff of the United States army, and
whom Villa calls his friend, that he
had no part in either of these attacks.
WHY RNr DELAY
