reditu lutV'fclfcrHf
iff
JiagpEf
cefclu
Uuattfief.
Jasfek, Indiana; Friday, SEPTEMBER 29, 1916,
No. 4.
YOL. 5V.
Clever Tricks to Get
Liquor m "Dry" Stale
NaüvsG of Arizona Evade
Most Stringent Pro
liibitioii Law
"WATCHFUL WAITING" H AS
SAVED A NATION'S LIFE
PIONEERS IN INDIANAPOLIS CENTENNIAL PAGEANT.
Mexican Envoy's Tribute to President
Wilson's Policy. '
! Convincing testimony to the wisdom
!'
ass -mmm i
1 3 Tfe&W
5 wSM
1 S:v
f o - - sr-' . . ..-AAA..... . . . .
1 I
nd justice of President Wilson's
" "- " " ' , Mexican poncy is urougnt iroin Mex
ico itself by Luis Cabrera, one of
Phn:::, Ariz., Jan. 15. A Phoenix J Mexico's commissioners at the joint
busir ss n:nn drove his automobile i Mexican-American Conference now in
over .0 Lcs Angeles and shipped it ! session at New London, Conn,
back. Tic sent two gentlemen down to ' "I do not care to discuss political
the frc-ir.t depot with, the bill of !
ladin-, cautioning them carefully to j jf
tow t.V machine to his residence. Eut i N 3
they liii A r.?e any rear on for towing
a per "ec.V: ftucd car, apparently in run
nine crder. so thev tried to start the
engir Kot a couh! Thoy found the !
carbi, etor lull oi a Lquid that looked,
but c .J not smc'l, gasoline. Then
they .rained sc-rse of che liquid from g
glori as ln jr,gs were ike result and '
the c ri.är.tjxv2d buisiiiess man had
nil 1 ir.i'M rtf f:rmil:lf Vpp.ninfr from
into thy territory.
This is only one of hundreds of
clever subterfuges that have been re
sorted to in order to evade Arizona's !
strict prohibition law. Every day the
officers "get wise" to some new
scheme of the booze importers.
A barrel labeled "asphalt" came
from Los Angeles for a local con
tractor's warehouse; it rolled out of
.the back end of the wagon and wai
smashed on the pavement. When sev
eral gallons of asphalt had oozed
away, a large keg still intact was
'observed by a policeman to be in the
middle of the wreckage. He investi
gate:! and found that it contained
5vhiskey of high quality.
Officers of Miami became suspicious
that a piano case received there and
stilled to Mrs. Hosa Disney did not
contained worü oi bottled
liqucr.
Br t ties are interned in the middle
of cans of lard or honey shipped to
Arizmru Scores of suitcases are left
uncalled for at railroad stations be
cause the owners suspect that they
are suspected and often they are
right. Dozens of arrests have been
made because one bottle in a trunk or
6uit2ase was broken in transit.
Of late a number of shipments have
teer, made in the bladders of animals,
which never break no matter how
roughly the baggage is- handled. It
is said that there is an unprecedented
demand for bladders at the slaughter
houses of El Paso and Los Angeles.
In Tucson a dealer in household
4-
-- I I .
This "review is to close witl fcV rid
and the cat culience juinLi in In
diana states song, "On the BntM 'of
!the Wabasti."
Last Great Pageants of the Year in Two Weeks' Celebration.
Typical centennial pageant scene showing how' th.e pioneers traveled when Indiana was in its primitive state,
when men and women braved the hardships and dai;vr4 of the wilderness in laying the foundation of a great
commonwealth. In the picture is the old Brown county ox-team and cart which is to participate in the Indi
anapolis pageant.
or international questions of any X
kind," said Senor Cabrera in a recent 4-
interview, "but I will say that in ofli- J
cial circles of Mexico President AVil-
son is looked upon as one of the great- X
est men the United States ever has
had as a leader. He is calm and con
siderate, and his much abused
'watchful waiting' policy has probably
saved the life of my nation and pre
vented your country from entering
into a needless struggle."
INDIANA'S GREATEST CENTENNIAL
CELEBRATION AT INDIANAPOLIS
DEMOCRATIC PROMISES
T
T
T
I
X
T
I
Big Civic and Patriotic Demonstrations Cover Two, Weeks.
Oct. 2-15, Inclusive.-
t
T
-r
T
i
INDIANA GO' NTIES IN
SONSTEB PAGEANT
X
T
T
7
SCHEDULE OF EVENTS.
Oct. 2. Grand review of patriotic and fraternal organizations in .j
streets of Indianapolis. X
Indiana Centennial pageant at Riverside park first six afternoons.
iOct. 3. Homecoming of Hoosier exiles from other states. A
great welcome awaits the "exiles'" at Indianapolis. V
ex- T
Hot A TnfHnnn nrt litrntiirp find nrnliif-nntiire. Immensii
TO FARMERS FULFILLED Mbit of fine and domestic arts at John Herron Art institute.
T
X ' Oct. 5. Religious pageant, floats by Indianapolis churches, review
Benefits Under Wilson Set Forth in j, ing the denominational history of Indiana. x
Official Pamphlet. . ß County processional pageant, with floats representing the
The Democratic platform of y counties, cavalcade of 92 young women on horseback, reunions of In-
Round-Up of AH Hoosiers For
Big Parade and Reunions
at Indianapolis.
t
T
2
t
made this promise to the farmers of
America :
"Of equal importance with the
question of currency reform is the
cultural finance. Therefore we rec- X
ommend that an investigation of :
agricultural credit societies in for- , X
. t i i 1 1 i li. '
eign countries oe maue, so luat it
may be ascertained whether a sys-
X
X
t
dianapolis people with "the folks back home." Great Hoosier reunion
at state fair coliseum at night. Address by former President W. H.
Taft. Massed band concert. Review of Indiana music of 100 yearB.
Oct. 7. Olympic games, with contests by college, high school and
athletic associations at state fair grounds, for Indiana championships.
Oct. 8. Centennial services in Indianapolis churches. Union meet
ing with united choir at night at Soldiers' monument or state fair
coliseum.
Oct. 9. Parade of floats showing development of Indiana manu-
tern of rural credits may be de- t factured products and industrial enterprises, given by Indianapolis
Utensils remarked casually to a con
stat le that his stock of can openers
had been exhausted that morning. He
could not understand why so many
full-grown men should need can open
ers. The constable ran down this clue
and arrested an enterprising young
fellow who had imported and sold!
whiskey in tomato cans with gaudy
labels.
Automobiles have been used exten
sively for the introduction of liquor.
At Clifton a yoang man with a big
car, which he frequently drove to
Lordsburg, N. M., fell under suspi
cion and was arrested. He had fitted
a false bottom in his machine and was
carrying from seventy to eighty
quart bottles at a load. In the auto
of a prisoner arrested at Miami were
several concealed copper compart
ments, all full of whiskey. One young i
man and his wife for several months
ma le regular motor trips between El
Centro, Calirornia, and Phoenix, each
time carrying numerous bottles and
keg! that were retailed at a great
pro It he e. Two others made a bus
inefö ii" stea'.ing autos in Lcs An
geles, loading them vrith liquor, driv
ing to Arizona and selling cars and
cargoes.
Sf:rii C.'in espondence, Deseri Ne&s,
Salt J.e City.
Published by the Indiana
Bretze rs A ssociatio
vised suitable to conditions in the
United States; and we also favor
legislation permitting national banks
to loan a reasonable proportion of
their funds on real estate security.
"We recognize the value of vo
cational education, and urge Federal
appropriation's for siich training and
extension teaching in agriculture in
1 X
business houses, manufacturers and labor organizations.
Oct. 10. Women's day. An extraordinary program of features for X
! 4- the women of Indiana. x
" Oct. 11. Public health parade. Floats showing the old and mod- 4-
-- x
j- ern ways of safeguarding public welfare. Given by the Indiana and 4.
T Indianapolis board of health, hospitals and others. J
! T Oct. 12. Motor parade over historic highways. The greatest auto y
parade ever given. Delegations from over thr state, all concentrating
at Indianapolis, where a gigantic parade will be given. A great goon
These pledges, with many other 7 roadsn meeting at state fair coliseum with speakers of national fame,
services to the farmer, have been com- 4- Oct. 13. Educational day. Forty thousand school children in a
pletely fulfilled in the legislation of X great patriotic demonstration at state fair grounds. Boston Grand
the present Administration. The rec- j; Opera company, with ballet of 100 and orchestra, in "Andre Chenier" j
ord of Democratic Performance is of- .1. at Murat theater at night. X
Tavorl in rnmnnrlsnn with Hin T?oniih. x i -r-. i t tji
lican record of broken promises to the' X
Oct. 14. Boston
(matinee) and "Faust
Grand Opera company in Japanese opera "Iris" x
t" (night) at Murat theater. ?
sued by the Democratic National Com- . .0 mus.cal finale. Bos on G. an I Opera company 4.
, - i i;X with Indianapolis choral society m erdis Requiem, at staie ta;r t
raittee. Copies have been furnished 1 . j t
to every Democratic State Commit
tee for free distribution.
LATEST PHOTOGRAPH
OF PRESIDENT WILSON
coliseum (night).
X
Do $ot Trifle
"If good, nd vice for mon awl women. It
may be vital in the case of a child. Lorn
experience has proven that there noth- i
ing better for colds in children than
Chamberlain's I
It is a favorite vnth niany mothers and
ÄtTr disappoinLs tli-m. It contains no
jegimn or other narcotic and cnay be given
jlttth implicit coufiti nce.
I
. i
S" " "
PAGEANT-DRAMA OF
HOOSIER HISTORY
Wonderful Statehood Spectacle
to Be Given by 3,000
People.
A great centennial pageant to $t
staged at Riverside, one of the finest
of the Hoosier capital's chain of parkfl,
in which 2. 00 men, women and chil
dren will h east in a dramatic pic
ture showing the progress and de-
hundred
tanding
if:
p j velopmeat of Indiana for one 1
t?5 years, v.-iu ue cue ui u:e ouls
fj , features of the centenary jubilee at
TndianapoPs Oct. 2-15.
The paqeant. which is to tell a
thrilling story of the eaily sufferings
and hardships and later triumphs of
the men and women who have made a
great state, will be given each after
noon of the first week of the celebra
tion, beginning Oct. 2. at 4 p. m. each
dramatist, will not only be education
al in its li'itorical character, but will
visualize the future possibilities of
the state. There are to be ten epi
sodes and five symbolic scenes deal
ing with the mate's development from
the first exploration of La Salle, the
French trader, down to the present
time.
All of these great events are to be
depicted on a vast open-air stage by
men and women raithfully costumed
A processional "pageant staged by
the counties of Indiana which will
contribute fioat and picturesque
groups of people to it is one of the
brilliant spectacles to be given as a
chief feature of the great Indiana cen
tennial celebration at Indianapolis the
first two weeks of October; the county
pageant to be held on Oct. 6. It
promises to bethe largest and most
elaborate spectacle of the kind that
has ever been given in the United
States, and it will be one of the out
standing features of all the statehood
centennial programs that have been
given in Indiana this year. The speak
er for this special day is to be Wil
liam H. Taft, former president of the
United States.
Preparations began weeks ago in
counties where there is spirited inter
est in seeing that each -is splendidly
represented. Some of the counties
will have his'orical fioits. othors by
floats show in tt t'- rYef resources. A
conspicuous '1 .'-'iir' to be a caval
cade of 9U youn? - Tr.en on horse
back, which will V ifl the page mt
one oqn'-stri'jn cor.iins: frc-i eaci
county, and or.t of the 9- or. 3 will b
chosen to impersonate "Indiana."
The equestrians for the eavilcadr
are now being selected in Uie countie.
by popular vote, many of th so con
tests being conducted .by the new:;
papers. The girl receiving tho htah
est number of votes is to 1 ? chosi
to represent "Indiana." A large nuin
ber of brass bands from over the state
will accompany their floats in th pa
rade, which is to move over the lndi
anapolis streets.
Indianapolis people who formerly
lived out in. the state are forming re
ception committees to greet th? folks
from "back home" when they come to
the Hoosier capital, and during the
day each county is to hold a reunion
It is going to ois the g tatest reunioi
held in the history of Indiana, and
the first of its kind "held in America
"County day" is to cv ninate at the
CENTENNIAL OLYMPIC GAMES
Indiana Athletes In Championship
Contests at Indianapolis, Oct. 7.
Athletic contests for Indiana champ
ionships will make up the Olympic
games program of the statehood cen
tennial celebration at Indianapolis,
the contests to be held at the st&to
fair grounds on Oct. 7. College and
high school, Y. M. C. A., and other
athletic organizations, will be repre
sented by their best talent, and the
long disputed championships will be
determined, the centennial yoat
awards being especially attractive to
Hoosier youth in all lines of sport.
The indications are that the con
testants will be in such large num
bers that the day will rival the Olymp
ic games of old Greece in magnilurJö
and quality. The contests are bing
organized in divisions, the Y. M. C. A.
; athletic clubs and turner societies
j holding field sports ami th men and
women uniting in giving pi et squA
drills. G. W. Lipps, of the Independ
ent Turnverein, Indianapolis, is' chair
man of this division.
The college athletes will be in an
other division, the chairman of which
is A. H. Berndt, of Indiana university.
Bloomington. Public school boys will
make up the third division, of which
Charles Dyer, Indianapolis, is chair
man. Still another division" will, bo
for tennis and golf players, the chair
man being James Lo wer y -superintendent
of the Indianapolis park
board. The Olympic program is in
the charge of a general committee, of
which Theodore Stempfel. of the
Fletcher-American National bank of
Indianapolis, is chairman. Th con
testants can make entries thiough the
division chairmen.
One of the day's features proposed
is a Marathon relay race, starting at
the four corners of the state and end
ing at Indianapolis. Another is a
schedule of baseball games which
will , determine J.he state araatsR?.
championship.
iENTURY OF INDIANA ART
IN GREAT EXHIBIT
r. . 1 f A fT f
i. inin, ,mo,i ? whlrfi! state tair consim v..vu- m
LOr LUC ptW'uioi ,cnwv " . , . , . . . nUa i
IS LO SptsaK UL ' 'i' vw iitio
are to be seated ! ' ti-i as at a
state political ro.v u'vi. The band
will be mas-.r vt , rn for a grea
concert in v?;v;h ;vrha:s 1,000 musi
cians will take p
f aay the SDectacle drifting into the
-l!P&V , early twilight so that the spectators
spe
may enjoy some remarkably unique
electric effects and illuminated tab
leaux. The paceant as written by William
Chauncoj Langdon, New York pageant
they enter. The great Hoosier drama;
promises to present scene after scene:
calculated to tli.ill the blood of every:
loyal Irdianfon. " ;
Riverr" :e park war, - lected because
It is ea f -cached fro : the city and;
besides :?iurerqn situation of-:
fered admirall? o ranity for out-;
door drama. A gr.:i ".stand will ac-j
commodate nearly 10,000 people. From.
the grardstand the spectator will have?
a fine swrp of the srrRSsy stage wi.h;
Whitf rivtr, skirted .by woocHand and;
the old canal beyond.
in fixe iresentation of this grcs-t
A feature of the Indiana Centenary
telebration at Indianapolis will be an
exhibit of Hoosier fine and domestic
art products covering the century, and
the John He?ron Art institute will
keep the centenary exhibit open to the
public during the entire month of Oc
tober.
Mrs. Albert Rabb is chairman of the
committee on literat:ro rid has
planned som novo! ideas for showing
Indiana's procrcss in this direction.
Harold Haven Brown, director of Uie
institute, by appeal to the people of
the ' state, is gathering a wond rful
collection of the beautiful, the antl'iuc,
the curious in the way of art. All
over Indiana families ere ransacking
attics, trunks and close!?! for HoosWt
arts and articles of hiHiian interest,
dating from the r a. liest dr.ys to a
quarter century ago.
The display is to be in thre de
partments. One section wi!l be de
voted to the fine arts in painting and
sculpture, another to historic por
traits and prints, the object being to
show in historical sequence the mora
noted ien and women of the stae'e
history; a third section will include
household utensils of historic and
human int?rest. as well as a-ticl"s of
the professions and tools of the
trades.
A SoUer.
A musical Ur.vire of the night
meeting will be i rv'ew of Indiana
music covering the state's first cen
tiirv Tliis medley will be played
by a band of sixty. T&e musical re
view being with the arud songs and
battle airs of the Indians, it will in
clude the music whirh the first
French exnlorers and soldiers brought
iTtr. tvio HnnKipr wilderness, the mili-
"What kind of & dog Is that, mj
HV ft. MtUr. (irn't 7 - hi
Trom Hand to iV:wS
The Coij.ietti--H!: ; U. rfa
I wa3 so drc:t!r rlh K- .ud I
nicture oPJioosier life people from all: tary airs of tne British, the folk songs iimply had to tavrs. bat.
over tho state have responded to the; of tne first settlers, the patriotic I hid my nou v.i,:!)
call for pioneer relics to aid "in bring-; music 0f the war of'lSl2, the Mexican Mr. Baprj--- -o; -t-
Ing realism into the pageant. war an tne Civil war. Old songs t0 say tlrr üüC
The hours for the pageant perform-: like N6me Gray" that were immense- ttle har.d ' .
ances have been arranged so that vis- ly popuiar in their time and which are gucv ft - ? ..
itors to the city may attend the spec-j unf&nliUar to many people of this gen- jovey . ;lür (
taple and also other events of the cen- entlon will b revived in ihe medley. ge ' '
tennial celebration.
- 1 ' . , , v " "V " T : t -
r j ' V
1
