I
If B
- Iron County Record. I
1 WITH WHICH IS CONSOLIDATED "THE OBSERVER." H
I I , . ... Mil - " - ' - - ..- ... . .. - - H
M . , .11 .. ,.-! I Ill .! II.- " .. -' "-" I I ' ' .... ,..,, ... . ... ,. B-B-B-B-S
VOLUME XXIII $1.50 PER YEAR CEDAR CITY, UTAH, FRIDAY, SEPT. 29, 1910. 5 CTS. PER COPY. NUMBER 42.
iim mra iiimi ii I w wrTrM MMMMMMMMMM r ttt Trrmirnr -awi bVBBYBI
.-, MANY VACANCIES I
' ' BE FILLED
Feature of Conference Was Re-
I lease of Officers and Selec
tion of Successors.
STAKE PRESIDENCY
I FULLY REORGANIZED
Apostles Lymnn und Ivina in Attend'
' ancc nnd Give Advice President
Lyman Talks Finance.
The quarterly conference of the
Purowan Stake of Zion convened in
! this city last Saturday, opening with
; the general Priesthood meeting at 10
a. m. Pres. F. M. Lyman and Apostle
f A. W. Ivins, besides the members of
' ' the stake presidency, most of the bish
ops and other officials of the stake
were in attendance, and the meetings
were largely attended by church mem
bers and the public generally.
Owing to the fact that there had
I been a numbor of resignations, creat-
T ing vacancies to be filled, the confer-
I once was of more than usual signifi-
if cance.
w Tho opening remarks at the Priest-
X hood meeting were made by President
l Marsden, who explained briefly the
A circumstances which made it ncccs-
Ij sary for him to resign his position as
H stake president, and exhorted those
present to be faithful in the perform
D ance of the duties required of them.
ADOstle Ivins followed with an in-
M tercsting nnd stimulating address.
drawing from his store of personal
experiences, and instructing the mem
m bers in their various duties.
fli The meeting was held in session
H beyond the regular hour, pending the
H arrival of Pres. Lyman, who came in
II by auto from Lund.
0 On his arrival Elder Lyman stated
that one of the important matters of
H business before the conference was
W. the selection of a now stake president.
Elder L. -N. Maradan -having requested
! . to bo released, on account of failing
' health. Each member of tho priost-
hood present was requested to write
1 tho names of three persons on a bal-
lot whom they felt would be suitable
BJ to act as a stake presidency, from
which a choice of officers would be
BJ made and presented to the people for
their confirmation Sunday morning.
B Saturday Afternoon Session.
Conference convened in general
fl session at 2 p. m., President Marsden
S ' conducting.
Opening prayer was offered by El
9 der Reese J. Williams.
B President Lyman addressed the con-
ference, referring to tho early scttle-
91 mont of southern Utah and his hard-
?,. ships and experiences endured while a
'M resident of Cedar City, Parowan, Bea-
K vor and Fillmore. Tho apostle occu
lt pied tho entire time at this session,
with the exception of the timo re-
I quired for the presenting and sustain-
I ing of tho general and stake author
ities. Prior to the presenting of these
officers, a number of resignations
, were presented and approved of. A
list of these vacancies, with the new
appointments follow:
Tho Stake Presidency and ward
clerk were released and the new Stake
Presidency sustained as follows:
President, Wilford Day; first coun
sellor, Wm. II. Lyman; second coun
sellor, Hugh L. Adams, Jr.
Tho superintendency of tho Y. M.
M. I. A. was released and tho new
officers sustained follow:
Ellas M. Corry, president: Frank B.
Wood, first assistant; U. Ashton Jones
second assistant; Wallace Lunt, secrc
t&rv The counsellors of the Y. L. M. I. A.
were released and Helen Nelson and
f Bertha Perry were sustained to fill
fU the vacancy. . ,
M The presidency of tho Primary As-
U sociation wcro released and new ap-
II polntments made as follows:
W Mnrv A. Palmer, president, Ruth
fl Dalley first counsellor and Caroline
Robinson Jones second counsellor.
9 , Tho bishopric of the Cedar East
1 ward was released. Tho new bishop-
H ric is as follows:
1 Henry H. Lunt, bishop, Frank B.
I Wood first counsellor, and Calvin Pen-
9 dleton second. John Hnllman as Ward
Clerk.
Joseph W. Prince, second counsellor
to Bishop Paco of Harmony ward was
released and William P. Taylor se
lected to fill the vacancy.
Ellas M. Corry was released as
clerk of tho Cedar West ward and
fj Albert N. Tollestrup was selected as
tfft' tho new clerk.
All the stake and general author
ities, with these changes, were pre
sented and unanimously sustained.
At the evening meeting held at Pnr-
owan, tho whole of the bishopric was
I roleased, also tho ward cleric. The
' new officers are as follows:
J Hans. J. Mortensen, bishop; Wm. C.
I Mitchell, first counsellor; David A.
i Matheson, second counsellor; Joseph
I E. Ward, clerk. ,
j Sunday Afternoon Session.
.1 Tho timo Sunday afternoon was oc-
cupled by tho retiring and incoming
. "A stake presidency and by ApostleB Iv-
I
ins and Lyman. President Marsden
said that ho felt humiliated upon tho
occasion, on account of having been
obliged to nsk to be released from tho
important position he hnd held, but
stated that ho was not able longer to
do justice to tho office.
President Marsden spoke feelingly
of tho support and assistance that had
been extended to him by ex-President
U. T. Jones and said that he hoped to
be of as much support and assistance
to his successor in office.
Pres. Wilford Day Baid that it would
be impossible for him to fill the im
portant position to which he had been
called without the support of the peo
ple. Said that he would do his best
to fill the position creditnbly, nnd re
quested that any of the saints having
suggestions to mnko would feel free
in doing so.
Apostle Ivins referred briefly to his
travels throughout tho stakes of Zion
in this and surrounding states, and
spoke of tho condition of tho people.
Said that between whiles ho enjoyed
getting into the streams of cold water
up to his waist and fishing. Spoke on
the question of Reformation, and said
that there was much need for it a
mong the saints. Said wo all had
habits that wo needed to reform. The
speaker referred to the many improve
ments in progress in Cedar City in a
temporal sense, but believed that the
people were not giving enough atten
tion to religious matters.
Spoke of tho use of liquor, tobacco,
profanity, dishonesty, hypocracy, im
proper dancing, etc., as some of the
things to be shunned and forsaken.
Said the gospel of Christ teaches
peace. Our Redeemer did not talk
much to us of stocks and bonds and
flocks and herds; He did not worry
much about this world's goods.. But
tho gates of heaven are just as much
open, the speaker said, to the rich man
as to the poor man, so long as ho has
acquired his wealth honestly.
Pres. Lyman Talks Sugar Company.
After talking for a short time on
generalities, Prs. Lyman talked on
Temporal Salvation. Said ho had al
ways made it a rule when paying the
one-tenth of his interest for tithing
to lay aside at least n liKe amount
"for Brother Lyman." Said that ho
had been very frugal and saving all
his life. Had no bad or extravagant
habits, and made it a point to spend
very little money; never took a vaca
tiondid not fish or write poetry
but attended strictly to business and
saved his money. That when he came
through the settlements he always
stopped with "Brother Jones," (indi
cating tho ex-president) and did not
Say him anything; saved his money,
ut while ho had been very Baving all
his life he had lost three independent
fortunes by unwise speculation or in
vestments. One of these he said he
lost in the establishment of tho first
Sugar factory. Tho Church had in
vested $50,000 in the enterprise and
there was danger of it being lost, so
tho sneaker, Pres. Jos. F. Smith, He
ber J. Grant and othera had pledged
valuable stocks, mortgaged some of
their homes and other property to
erect a sugar factory, and that while
the Sugar company had done well and
payed good dividends, this money had
never been repaid to them.
Said that he had invested consider
able in sugar stocks and was a direc
tor of tho sugar company, but that he
had nothing to do with tho fixing of
tho price of sugar, and that if anyone
thought ho could change the price of
sugar he would like to see mm try.
In closing Pres. Marsden thanked
all those who had contributedt to the
success of tho conference and invoked
tho blessing of the Lord upon all present-
. . t
During the session a solo was beau
tifully rendered by Elder Lawrence
Adams of Parowan, and the choir con
tributed appropriate anthems.
Conference waB adjourned for three
months.
THE REAL KNOCKERS
OF IRON COUNTY
Mrs. Julia Seaman of Lund Discusses
Conditions in West End.
Lund, Utah, Sept. 2G, 1910. Dear
Editor. I am enclosing $1.50 to re
new my subscription to The Record.
The subscription year has not quite
rolled around yet, but I am renewing
ahead of time because I know the
price of print paper has gone up con
siderably In tho last year or so, anu
might go higher; so I am willing to
lend this much support to our county
editor. If everyone would renew his
or her subscription a little ahead of
time it surely would keep tho county
papor on a Btrong foundation.
I heartily commend you in your ef
fort to lower tho price of sugar. Wo
homesteaders certainly need a cham
pion in more ways than one.
If some means were provided where
by the bounty on rabbits could be in
forco all tho time, so as to lower the
cost of ammunition to tho rabbit fight
ers, it would be of untold assistance
to the dry farmers.
We have raised hero (in tho Esca
lanto desert, so called) a few very
fine potatoes and a little very nice
com, but tho pests devoured at least
twenty acres of crops for us. Tho
loss to some farmers is far in excess
of this. Eliminato tho pest problem
and this county would grow by leans
and bounds. Tho pests are tho knock
ers for this county, effective and per
petual. Yours to help boost,
MRS. JULIA L. SEAMAN.
Our rugs are beauty spots. They
will help to furnish your room artist
ically, Leigh Furniture & Carpot Co.
I
ARROWHEAD TRAIL !
GEISK BOOST
Association Officials and Other
Enthusiasts Pass Over the
Route to Zion.
ORGANIZING CHAPTERS
ALL ALONG THE LINE
Met With Automobiles nnd Escorted
into Town Trip Into Canyon was
Abandoned for Lack of Time.
On Thursday afternoon tho party
of trail blazers of the Arrowhead As
sociation who arc en route from Red
lands. California, to Salt Lake City,
via tno nll-tho-vcar route, arrived in
Cedar City, being met about Hamil
ton's Fort by half a dozen or moro
cor loads of people from this place.
Tho party at this time consists of
the following: Mr. Douglas White,
general industrial agent of the Salt
Lake Route; Mont Chubb, president
of the Arrowhead Trails Association;
Dr. W. R. Burke and wife, a booster
for the route; J. II. Fisher, president
of tho Rcdlnnds Chamber of Com
merce, accompanied by his wife; C. II.
Biglow and F. U. Owen, of Los Ange
les; II. II. Ford, president Rcdlnnds
National Bank; A. Seipsic, dry goods
merchant, Rcdlnnds: Franklin Bell,
orange grower, Rcdlands; Miss Pylc,
of Pasadena.
A meeting was arranged for the
visitors in the evening, and was ad
dressed by some of the prominent vis
itors, who explained tho objects of the
Arrowhead Trails Association and the
benefit the highway would bo to this
section of the country.
At the close of the meeting steps
were taken for the organization of a
local chapter of the association at this
place.
The party left Cedar City north
bound this morning, their next stop to
bo Parowan, wherfc another chapter of
tho association would bo formed. It
was expected that the expedition
would reach Salt Lake Sunday.
Owing to a lack of time, the pro
posed trip into Cedar canyon had jo
be abandoned.- " 7"" -
REPUBLICANS NAME
THEIR COUNTY TICKET
Select Woodbury for Representative
and Other Strong Candidates
for Various Offices.
The Repubilcans of Iron county met
in county convention last Monday and
nominated their county ticket, as fol
lows: For Representative, John S. Wood
bury, of Cedar City.
Long term commissioner, James C.
Robinson, Jr., of Parowan.
Short term commissioner, T. Wil
lard Jones, of Newcastle.
Clerk, Wm. T. Morris, of Parowan.
Recorder, Mrs. G. M. Benson, of
Parowan.
Treasurer, Silas J. Ward, of Paro
wan. Sheriff, John II. Corry, Cedar City.
Attorney, Geo. Hunter Lunt, of Ce
dar City.
Assessor, Reese James Williams, of
Kanarraville.
Mr. Williams is also named on tho
ticket for surveyor.
At the precinct primary, Jethro
Palmer was nominated for justice of
the peace for Cedar precinct and M.
D. Watson for constable.
NATURAL BRIDGE WILL
PROVE STRONG ATTRACTION
Last Wednesday the committee on
transportation appointed by tho Com
mercial Club to entertain tho party
of Californinns coming over the Ar
rowhead Trail from California, ac
companied by Mr. Flanigan, tho dis
covorer, as guide and one or two other
persons, made a trip into the canyon
and climbed up to tho natural bridge
which was first brought to public at
tention one month earlier, IMS was
tho first time that yo editor had been
privileged to view this natural won
der, and it was certainly worth the
effort expended. Wo made tho trip up
the canyon in Dr. Leonard's Studeba
ker rondster in a little less than an
hour as far as tho Jones and Bulloch
Coal mino and tho Fife saw mill.
From hero it is about a mile to the
bridge and tho climb under present
conditions is decidedly arduous. Those
mounting to tho bridge on this occa
sion wcro Drs. Leonard and Macfar
lane, Merchnnt W. H. Leigh, William
Flannigan, discoverer and guide, John
II. Fife, William Fletcher, chauffeur,
and the editor of Tho Record. Mayor
Jones went ns far as tho coal mine.
The stately grandeur and unusual
phenomena of tho structure is poorly
illustrated by tho photographs yet
taken. It is far larger, and more un
usual than wo had imagined. With n
little moro improvement to tho road
nnd tho construction of a suitable
trail from tho coal mino to tho bridge,
which can bo done at smnll cost, this
will bo n strong attraction for tour
ists passing over tho Arrowhead trail.
FOR SALE. Extra choice promium
stock saddle, $76. D. M. Clark, City.
MORE ABOUT THE
PUBLIC UTILITIES
J. S. Woodbury Makes Reply to Mr.
V. S. Peet, nnd Advances
Additional Reasons.
Editor Iron County Record, Sir:
In your issue of tho 16th inst., is an
other letter from Mr. V. S. Peet.
Since ho makes frequent use of my
name, I feel justified in saying some
thing moro.
Mr. Peet says I failed to "give any
specific reason for" a utility commis
sion in my last article. That state
ment is far fetched. I have advanced
n number of "specific reasons."
An additional reason is that utili
ties arc of a quasi-public character.
Tho people who use them (and that
means nil tho people) have just as
much interest in them as th6 pcoplo
who own them, nnd their improper
management effects these users moro
seriously than it docs tho owners.
Our socfnl organization is so interwov
en with them that any interruption
thrcntens us with havoc, as note tho
recent threatened strike of the Rail
road Brotherhoods.
Mr. Peet professes to sec nothing
wrong with tho rato schedules in op
eration today. That certainly was
not his position when the Salt Lake
county tclcphono rumpus was on lr.st
spring, and I call attention to tho as
sertion made at that timo that tho
controversy cost tho people of Suit
Lake county nnd the telephone com
pany moro dollars than would bo re
quired to maintain a state utilities
commission for ono or more years.
Wo need a state commission to reg
ulate inter-state utilities and to assist
tho inter-state commerce commission
in regulating inter-state systems.
Mr. Peet gets funny and says "Now,
Mr. Woodbury, if your motives aro
pure and honest in arguing a public
utility commission, why do you not
include in such a commission all Utah
corporations?" Wo mark this exhib
it A, and will introduce it in evidence
when Mr. Peet organizes a mining
corporation to develop a prospect.
Again Mr. Peet tries to obscuro tho
real issue by dragging in tho sugar
trust, beef trust, Salt Lake Butchers
and Grocers association, etc., etc. Ho
wants to know if I am bo anxious to
protect nnd regulato actual necessities
why not investigate these concerns
which are boosting prices. -'Now "It
might bo that a legislative investiga
tion would be n good thing. Yes, Mr.
Peet, if you will mnko that n motion
I will second it.
Mr. Peet quotes somo hot stuff from
the San Francisco Chronicle in criti
cism of tho California railroad com
mission. The article may or may not
have some foundation in fact, but I
could fill your paper with state re
ports favorable to state control.
Hns anybody learned of any state
repealing its utility commission law?
I think not, and over 40 states have
them, including our neighbor, Idaho.
Again, tho Republican and Demo
cratic parties in Utah have declared in
their state platforms for such a com
mission. Not a vote was cast against
it. Mr. Peet evidently believes plat
form declarations are not to be taken
seriously. That Hko railway plat
forms they nro to get in on.
If there aro peoplo in Utah who
wink nt party perfidy, for heaven's
sake keep them out of tho Legislature.
Tho logical goal to which Mr.
Poet's argument leads, is that popular
government is a failure and wo should
have as little of it as possible and
leave the holding group to follow
the bent of its instinct with as few
checks as possible. That might be
alright if the people who buy the
service, and tho fellows who labor to
produce it, were satisfied. But since
it docs not work out that way, wo
have a condition confronting us, and
tho question is, how to meet It?
Yours! J. S. WOODBURY.
Cedar City, 9-20-1G.
SALT LAKE ROUTE-U. P.
BUILDING GETS PRIZE.
Word has just been received that
the Jury of Awards, acting for tho
Panama California International Ex
position, at San Diego, California, has
given the Grand Prize for buildings
of its class to the Salt Lake Route-
Union Pacific building, which has been
operated by these two railway sys
tems since the beginning of tho ex
position in January, 1915. This build
ing has been ono of the features of
tho Exposition, carrying with it a
most interesting exhibit, bearing upon
the country tributary to tho Salt Lake
Route, and also maintaining an ef
ficient information bureau covering
every section of tho great West, thus
forming a most valuable adjunct to
the exposition's many attractions.
A party consisting of Mr. Garratt
Wilkin, superintendent of tho Moscow
Mine out of Milford, Mr. D. R. Ryan,
a Salt Lake capitalist, who has for a
long time had important holdings in
tho iron fields of this county, and a
Denver capitalist, whoso Identity was
not disclosed, wqro here looking over
tho iron deposits tho fore part of this
week. Tho party was reticent as to
their objects and intentions, but It
is surmised that more than passing
moment attaches )c their visit hero
nt this time.
Mrs. James Sherratt and hor two
youngest sons have gone to Los Ang
I oleB to visit her daughter and family,
j Mrs. A. J. Sparrowk.
SAHARA.
Sahara, Utah, Sopt. 29, 1910.
Tho regular meeting of tho Sahara
Center Civic club met with Mr. nnd
Mrs. A. E. Mnrkwith September 27th,
in connection with tho celebration of
their eighth wedding anniversary,
with tho usual good attendance of
club members. Tho following visitors
from Newcastle wore present: Mr.
lames Knoll and daughtors, Misses
Mary nnd Iva, Miss Vcrn Paco, Mr.
Claud Knell, Mr. Virgil Decker, Mr.
A. T .Jones and Mr. Robinson of
Beryl.
Following the business session, n
very interesting program was rend
ered. Mr. W. L. Shultz, ono of our
members, gave an, able nnd interest
ing talk on his travels In Japan. In
the muaicnl nnd literary selections,
honors were shared with visitors anu
members alike. During the refresh
ment period string music furnished by
club membors, enlivened the occasion.
Tho club extend Mr. and Mrs. Mnrk
with ninny thanks for the pleasant
evening, with best wishes for their
future success, they being the first
settlers in this locality.
The next meeting is to bo held nt
the homo of Mr. and Mrs. J. A. Fnlrlcy
on Snturday evening, October 7, 1910.
One of tho pleasant affairs of tho
past week was held at the home of
Mrs.'Arlio Fourman, on her wedding
anniversary, September 20, 1910, from
10 a. m. to 4 p. m., which in reality
was a stork shower in honor of Mrs.
E. M. Mngmussen. Following tha
dinner Mrs. MngmuBscn was tho recip
ient of mnny useful nnd beautiful
presents. Timo passed quickly over
tho needle work nnd social chat. Those
who participated wcro: Mrs. Frank
Hedrick, Mrs. D. M. Pcnrce, Mrs. A.
F. Markwith, Mrs. James Baker, Mrs.
J. E. Fairley, Mrs. H. J. Patton, Mr3.
G. JohnBtono, Mrs. S. A. Davis, Mrs.
T. R. Prey, Mrs. W. G. Bumpus, and
Mrs. Chns. Jobcrt of Ford. Mrs. Four
rcun, who was assisted in sorving by
Mrs. Johnstone, proved n charming
hostess. Wo nil regretted Mrs. Corn'a
inability to be present.
Mr. R. C. Knell and daughter, ac
companied by Mr. Willard Jones, nil
of Newcastle, whilo passing through
Snhara called on friends. I
m m I
We are pleased to have Mrs. Corn I
with ub again, she having returned
from the Southern Utah Hospital, af
ter her unfortunate accident. She
wishes to extend thanks for courtesies
vshown. her .while-In Ccdar-Gityj-
Miss Helen Mnkin of Omaha, Neb.,
is at tho Markwith home. Sho is one
of the party of three, including Mr.
Markwith and Mr. Willhide, who mo
tor to Parowan Friday, tho 29th, to
make final proof on their entries.
Mr. T. Howlnnd was called to Los
Angeles, California, on tho 20th inst.,
on nccount of the sudden death of
his brother. Mr. Howlnnd has the
sympathy of the entire community.
Union Sunday School 10:30 a. m.
Mr. G. C. Hutchcrson, superintendent.
All welcome.
PARAGONAH.
Pnragonnh, Utah, Sept. 27, 191G.
Tho Misses Evelyn and Thelma Mc
Bridc left Saturday for Provo, where
they will attend school the prcsont
season.
Miss Gertrude Talbot of this place
and Wesley Lister of Pangultch, wore
married in tho St. Georgo Temple this
week. The young peoplo expect to
make their homo in Panguitch, but
rumor hari it that their Paragonah
friends may expect a danco before
they leave for their new abode.
k I
Miss Efllo RobinBon, who has been
very ill tho last eighteen daya with
typhoid fever, has now passed tho
crisis and if no complications arise
will soon be on the road to recovery.
Quito a largo percentage of this
ward attended stake conference nt
Cedar City last Sunday, leaving tho
town quite depopulated.
A handsomely designed rug or car
pet with good, tasty coloring, Is a real
treat to any visitor to your homo in
fact, it is a real treat to yourself.
Our rugs and enrpots have just that
effect on everybody. Don't fall to sec
the beautiful display. Leigh Furni
ture & Carpet Company. Adv.
WANTED. Girl for general house
work. Mrs. E. H. Ryan, City.
Presbyterian Mission Services.
Services will bo held next Sunday
evening at 8 o'clock in tho Library
auditorium. Wo invito you to worship
with us. CLATON S. RICE,
Minister.
THE WEEK'S OFFERINGS
AT TIIORLEY THEATRE
Following is the program of moving
picture plays to bo shown at tho
Thorloy Electric Theatre during tho
week, beginning Monday, Sept. 18th:
Monday night "Passers By" fivo
reel feature by tho World Corporation.
Tucsdny 5 reels Western play by
tho Universal Film company.
Wednesday Fivo reel Western play
by tho Mutual company.
Thursday Second episode of "Tho
Secrot of tho Submarine." (Read tho
story now running in Tho Record.)
Friday Alice Brady in "Then I'll
Come Back to You."
Saturday Six reel program by tho
Mutual Film company.
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT M
OFFERS TO ASSIST FARMERS ' flB
It is up to tho pcoplo of this nnd
surrounding states to assure the gov- H
eminent of their willingness to avail
themselves of the opportunity to get
money through tho banks roferrcd to;
also that Utah is the logical location
for one of theso banks. In order that H
this can be done systematically nnd H
also enable all of tho farmers of
the stato to thoroughly understand
the workings of tho new act, the Salt H
Lake Real Estato association has in-
vitcd Dr. George Thomas, dean of tho
Agricultural Collcgo of Utah, to ad-
dress the farmers and business men
on this subject at tho Commercial club H
at 12:45 p. m. on October 0th, 1910. H
Dr. Thomas has made a study of tho H
Federal Farm Loan Act, also rural
credit systems in other countries and
will, in n few minutes, tell you whnt H
it has taken him years to learn. H
The public is invited to attond this H
address. Wo especially urge that all H
out-of-town farmers and business men H
make it convenient to hear this ad- H
dress nnd to cooperate with tho Salt H
Lake Real Estate association In sccur- H
ine for tho farmers what thov have M
needed so long. M
Anyono unable to attend nnd desir- H
ing information about tho Federal jH
Farm Loan Act may receive same by H
writing to the Snlt Lako Real Estato H
association, C. C. Nelson, prcsidont. M
PASTURE TOLET. Will tako a H
limited number of animals for pasture H
at $2.00 por head per month. Splcn- B
did feed. Foster Brothers. M
Thomas G. Gill, a sign specialist of 1 ,
Salt Lako City, has been spending r H
somo weeks in southern Utah in tho M
interests of his health, and incident- B
ally has been viewing tho scenic lit- HB
tractions of Iron and Washington
counties, descriptions of which ho hns
been sending to the Salt Lako Trib- ,
une, of which ho is a special corres-
pondont. Mr. Gill is loud in his prais-
cs of tho Little Zion or Mukuntuwcnp Bl
monument, which ho considers to bo BBb
one of tho greatest scenic attractions 1 BVI
in the world. Ho also visited the Ce- WBBl
dar canyon and tho natural bridge, 1
which appealed to him very strongly, , BB
and good accounts of which he sent to VAI
tho Tribune. Being an artist by pro- a iJBpJ
fession tho beauties of nature appeal J1 BBb
to him very strongly. tBBJ
TWO BIG EVENTS. !fflH
Utah State Fair-and Fall Conference'-. - jrfflTfll
L. D. S., Salt Lako City, Sept. iflVfll
30, Oct. 8th, 1916. JVflB
''H
Low excursion rates via Snlt Lnko ' VAbJ
Routo on snlo Ncphi and Tintic and ' BBbJ
North, Sept. 30th to Oct 8th, inclu- IBBbI
sivc, good returning Oct. 12th. BAbJ
All other points on sale Sept. 29 to (BBb
Oct. 7th. inclusive; good returning un- 'jflBJ
til October 16th. AVI
Extra sleepers and day coaches for Hfl
the occasion. Adv. L. Oct. 8. , ?
TAYLOR COMPANY HAS j H
WEEK'S ENGAGEMENT I jH
Will Present Strong Repertoire of 1 fM
Plays All Next Week What the
"Reaper Has to Say. ftBli
Tho E. Forrest Taylor Dramatic Co. flflB
which is well and favorably known to &BI
Cedar City thcatro goers, is billed for K:9bJ
a six-nights performance hero next gSVB
week. This popular troupo is making fll
a tour of the southern part of tho sl
state. Following is from the Richfield. 'BH
newspaper: v lAVJ
E. Forrest Taylor and his excellent jH
company of players began a four- kSBJ
night's engagement at tho opera houso iBbI
in this city Wednesday evening, a iVAl
record-breaking audienco giving close IbVJ
attention to tho unfolding of that ImBI
splendidly fascinating dramn, "Tho iBflU
Spendthrift." During tho entire week 'flB
the company has boon grcoted with IJH
very largo audiences, demonstrating llflH
to perfection tho old adage that "Merit ilH
always wins." Tho Taylor company WM
hns long been a favorito with thcatro liVJ
goers in this city. E. Forrest Taylor flfll
the well-known actor is a footlight S&BB
favorito as also is Miss Ada Daniels, $
tho accomplished nnd versatile actress fl
and comedienne, who can move an iflj
audienco at any timo to smiles or to J&l
tears. As is always tho caso when r'lrfll
visiting this city Mr. Taylor has an VmM
exceptionally nno support, overy mem- fi1BJ
ber of Mb company being adapted to ' FiB
his or her part, and the whole means ,IflBJ
that it Is ono of tho most nicely bal- iKr5
anccd organizations on the road. Ur&
Richfield peoplo are lovers of tho Up?
drama, notwithstanding that of lato wlv
yearB tho "movie" fnd has upset many ilSfo
of their previous ideas of tho "legitl- wr
mate" in stago work, and they havo mi
boon brought to realize, this week, . iw.:-m?
that tho Taylor company is one of tho '
best in every way that over made a 'flR$'
date In this city. Mr. Taylor Is a
bright and shining star In his inter- BL
pretations and delincntlons nnd his,- 'BESf
overy appearance before tho footHphCfs V BliK
is a signal for npplauso. Miss AdaV 'Br$&
Daniels Ib so entirely natural in-her Bffft
many assumptions that long ago sHb Bib
achieved notable distinction in anv of WEL
tho many realistic dramas in which
sho has beon a conspicuous figure. Tho BBJ
proof of tho pudding is chowing the BBb
strings. Tho nest proof of tho merits 4bJ
of a play and tho work of the players "BBj
is to- sco and hear it yourself. The Bfl
Taylor company closes its engagement BBJ
in Richfield this evening. Tako tho BH
Reaper's word for it and enjoy an ev- H
ening that will long linger in your BVl
memory as boing ono profitably nnd, Bl
pleasantly spohl Rlchfiold Ronpor.
i'bYJbbYJ
ABHH
BJBBH
BRBJ
, BBJ
