toriwrt Society Ttfl'
His
Tenth Year, Number 19
LIBERAL, SEWARD COUNTY, KANSAS, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1916
$1.50 Per Year
BOY KILLED BY LIGHTNING
"While working on the Bert Allen
farm two miles west of town, Charley
Tice was struck by lightning and In
stantly killed. It happened about
Your o'clock Saturday aftrenoon dur
ing the awful electric storm that
. iswept this section of the country.
The lightning was Intense, and Is re
ported to have struck many times
around Liberal and the adjacent vi
cinity. It seems that Charley and a com
panion were drilling wheat, and when
the storm became rather severe drew
their teams up facing each other,
then sought what shelter from the
rain they could beneath the animals.
Charley was standing slightly be
neath the neck of one of the mules at
the time the lightning struck, and his
companion was not more than two
feet away. Tlce was working four
"mules, three of which were killed, the
most peculiar feature of the tragedy
feeing that the lightning killed two
mules on one side, skipped one, and
then killed the one on the other out-
lde. Tice's companion was knocked
in a semi-conscious state, but after
some moments regaind himself suf
ficiently to crawl and try to walk only
to stagger and fall, until he reached
the Charley Miller place, a. quarter
of a mile away. Doctor Knlsely was
Immediately brought to the scene,
"but all efforts to revive him were
useless. He was then removed to the
undertaking establishment where a
lung motor was applied In the hopes
of restoring respiration, but this also
proved futile. x
The untimely death of Charles Ed
ward Tloe was a great shock to the
entire community. He was widely
and favorably known, having lived in
and around Liberal several years.
Tuneral services were conducted
"from the Methodist church Sunday
Afternoon by Rev. Hestwood, and In
terment made In the Liberal ceme
tery. There were many floral offer
ings, and one of the largest crowds
In the history of Liberal was pres
ent at the funeral to extend their
sympathy to the heart-broken family.
cnaries Jtiayaro. Tica was born ue
cember 26, 1896, and died September
23, 1916, being less than twenty-one
years of age. He leaves a father and
mother, three brothers and two sist
ers, all of whom were here at the,
time. The Democrat extends sympa
thy to all In their bereavement.
Down near Florls word came that
a man on the Mesnard place had been
rendered unconscious but Is recov
ering. A mule and a horse had been
Killed by the same bolt.
CONGRESSMAN SHOUSE HERE
OCTOBER 11
Congressman Jouett Shouse of the
Seventh district will, speak in Liberal
on Wednesday evening, October 11.
Mr. Shouse is a good speaker and will
give an Interesting account of the
happenings at Washington during the
last two years and the part he played
therein. Announcement of the place
of speaking and the hour will be
xnadeLin our next issue.
Clothes You Redd About for $17
When you set the appearance any gentleman is proud to have
When you get the quality that is guaranteed to give satisfaction, isn't it
sense to wear
Sfyleplus
K Clothes
7
TOt MAM I.l.tt.tB
"The same price the nation over."
'j
They are the nationally known clothes of medium price, and we con
trol the price here. A great designer and a staff of assistants perfect each
model to exactness. A great tailoring organization specializes on the mak
ing of this suit and overcoat The popularity of Styleplus has brought
about a volume so great that the makers have, been able to keep the price
down to $17 just as in normal times.
ALSO STEIN-BLOCK SMART CLOTHES
MILLINERY DEPARTMENT
'.' Of course you have noticed the stylish hats from our very busy Mil
linery Department, and then have you noticed the reasonable prices? Mrs.
Pearl Oeurmyer, who has charge of this department is building some beau
tiful styles at from $4.00 to $6 00 that bring from $7 60 to $10 00 in the
large city millinery stores. We wapt you to know that we are running
our millinery department on an economical busis That's why fte are pro
ducing such beautiful hats at such a little price, We consider Our Millinery
Department the biggest advertisement we have. ',' ."
TU tfafc-lte Cm. lit!
"38 Years Successful Merchandising Has Taught us How to Serve You Better"
0?j iT"
VL.
WMVAV2
LIBERAL, KANSAS
ESTABLISHED 1878
guymon,, Oklahoma
DALHART, TEXAS
STAR ROUTE STARTED MONDAY
The star route from ' Liberal to
Hugoton, mention of which was made
In these columns several weeks ago,
was put Into operation Monday, Cbas.
E. Butcher, who made the lowest bid,
being the carrier. The 'route goes
from Liberal to Hugoton by way of
Ematon, returning the same day by
way of Lafayette. It is 35 miles long
each way and will have a dally ser
vice. The carrier leaves here at 7:00
a. m and returns at 6:00 p. m. This
Is the route that has been asked tor
so long by the business men of Liber
al and the people who were former
ly served by it, and had It not been
for the strenuous efforts of Senator
Thompson in cutting short several
miles of departmental red tape,, It
is doubtful it It had ever been re
established. It will be a decided ad
vantage to the people of both towns
to have this route again running, to
say nothing of the patrons of the two
other offices served by It and the
folks living along the route itself.
CAN REGISTER AT CITY HALL
Arrangements' have been ; made
whereby the registration books will
be kept at the city hall for three days
some time between now and election
day, m order to give those people a
chance to register who find it diffl
cult (or Impossible) to climb the
stairs to the city clerk's office over
the Miller building. This will be
quite an accommodation to those who
are afflicted In such a way as to ren
der stair climbing a tedious Job, and
they should watch for the dates
carefully. This doesn't necessarily
mean that only those so afflicted can
register at that time, but It will be a
help to them. Anyone who is legally
qualified to vote at the November
election can register those days, and
we urge every voter to show up with
in the next few weeks and do so. The
dates at which the books will be at
the city hall will be published in our
next Issue.
E. D. Cooper transacted
matters In Plains Monday.
business
things
Right.
(We fix
What's the use of getting your watch repaired unless it is
done right? The reason we have made a success of our busi
ness is because we do things right. If your watch needs re
pairing, bring it to us, We give the most particular attention
to watch repairing and guarantee our work to give satisfaction
in every way. . ' ' '
O. J. WILKINS, Jeweler
At Taylor's
NEW PLATER FOR MAJESTIC) PEDDLER'S LICENSE SHOULD BE
Prof. Albert Vontoskl arrived Moo-1 ., ". INCREASED
day. from McAltster, Oklahoma, and
will-take charge of the piano and
musical features of the Majestic the
ater next week. Prof. Vontoskl has
until recently, been located In Palat
ka, Florida, and brings excellent rec
ommendations from that city In re
gard to his ability as a musician. He
will also give lessons, on the piano,
violin and other instruments, and
has a card in this issue of the Demo
crat regarding tne same. He Is a
graduate of the Leipzig (Germany)
conservatory ot music, and was
bandmaster in the United States navy
for four years. His wife will arrive
from Florida in a few weeks and
they will make their home here. Un
til she arrives he can be found at the
home of Mrs. Catherine Larrabee on
North Grant avenue.
HUTCHINSON MAY LAND IT
Quite a few business men and
farmers of Liberal and Seward coun
ty attended the hearing of the Fed
eral Farm Loan Board at Hutchinson
last week to give their testimony re
garding the advantages of having one
of the land banks established in that
city. Hutchinson is centrally locat
ed and is the logical point for the es
tablishment of that institution In this
state. It seems that the men who
conducted the hearing were well
pleased with the conditions they
found in Hutchinson and it will no
doubt receive serious consideration
when the time comes to locate the
bank in Kansas.
Piano Ruined by Small Blaze
Wednesday morning the gong
sounded and the fire department
started north to the home ot Mattie
Cohenour from where the alarm call
for help had come. It seems that the
blaze had been discovered In the par
lor of her home near the piano. Be
fore the fire was extinguished, It
burned a pile of music, the piano
stool and ruined the piano entirely.
It is supposed that the children had
been playing with matches about the
place and had set fire to the -music
that lay near the Instrument.
r " Tfcst week a 'traveling dry-goods
peddler struck Liberal and started
peddling his wares from the rear seat
of an automobile. One of the mer
chants called up this office and want
ed to know If he could be stopped
Upon Investigation It was discovered
that the man had paid the $10 fee and
nothing could be done to prohibit
htm from selling his goods. This 11
cense Is far too small and should be
raised until it prohibits such mer
chandising, not only for the protec
tlon of the merchant, but also for the
protection of the consumer. They
have no "come-back" on this class of
people and the only thing they have
when he Is gone Is a piece ot goods of
inferior quality which they could
have bought much cheaper of the
home merchant.
Frank S. Sullivan, grand chancel
lor ot the Knights of Pythias for the
state of Kansas, was In Liberal Wed
nesday and met with the local lodge
that night. A good attendance was
present and work In the third rank
was exemplified. Mr. Sullivan made
an appreciative talk at the close of
the meeting, in which he declared the
members to be 99 44-100 per cent
efficient In conferring the work. A
lunch was enjoyed by the members
at the Annex Cafe after lodge.
Liberal has a good fire-fighting
equipment; Liberal has a good bunch
of volunteer firemen; Liberal has a
water pressure heavy enough to take
care of any ordinary fire, but Liberal
HASN'T got any system about getting
the aforementioned equipment, fire
men or water to the scene of a fire
In an orderly manner. No pains seems
seem to be taken to notify the man In
charge of the fire wagon where the
fire Is located, and the fire whistle is
generally blowing full blast before
the department is notified. There
should be a system worked out where
by the firemen will know the street
or ward wherein the fire is located by
the time the whistle starts. Running
the fire' fighting department all over
town before finding the fire Is going
to be a costly pastime some day.
Rev. McMunn and wife, W. F. Hub
bard and Pete Fox, all of Optima,
were In town attending to business
matters and receiving medical treat
ment a few hours Wednesday. Mr.
McMunn was pastor of the Methodist
church at this place about ten years
ago atd will be remembered by lots
of Liberal people. Mr. Hubbard was
one of the founders ot the Democrat
(at that time the Independent) about
the same time, and both expressed
great surprise at the growth of the
town since they left here. He Is now
engaged In the mercantile business
at Optima.
You will notice a half page ad. this
week of a speech by the Hon. John S.
Simmons, Republican candidate for
congress from the Seventh district.
The speech will be given at the court
bouse next Monday evening at 8
o'clock and the Republican organiza
tion Invites everyone out to hear
Mr. Simmons on that date.
CHAS. E. LOG Up DEAD
Chas. E. Logue, who has lived in
or vneftr' Liberal Bun jast several
years, died Saturday afternoon of ty
phoid fever. Mr. Logue was born in
Stafford county, Kansas, October 21,
1888, and died September 23, 1916,
aged 27 years, 11 months and 2 days.
Deceased leaves a wife and two child
ren. The remains were shipped to
Stafford, Kansas, Sunday for Inter
ment. Mr. Logue was sick several
weeks and seemed to have no chance
to pull through from the very start.
The Democrat Joins the family's
friends In extending the hand of sym
pathy In the loss ot husband and
father.
,
Inspector Blough Here .
3. B. Blough, postofflce inspector,
was In the city last week looking over
Liberal and noting the necessary Im
provements which would have to be
made before the free mall delivery
could be Installed. He said there are
about three crossings that will have
to be put in and tour blocks of cement
sidewalk before the free service can
be extended to all parts ot the city.
Mr. Blough said he might recommend
the service with these Improvements
but added that the delivery would not
extend to the parts where they were
needed until the Improvements were
put In. The places objected to are
already covered by city ordinance and
will be In shape In a little while.
ANOTHER FIRE SUNDAY
The Liberal fire department made
another run Sunday this time the fire
being in the rear of the Liberal Auto
ft Supply Co, The prompt work of
men present, who armud themselves
with four or five fire eitlngulshei
put an nd-tt .the, blaze Just as .the
Are truck drove up. The run was
made In good time and the depart
ment would have been there had Its
assistance been seriously needed. The
origin of the fire is unknown. While
some ot the assistants at the garage
were seated In the front end they
happened to look back and noticed
the fire climbing celllngward. The
damage done amounted to but little.
and $75 or $100 will cover It all in
full.
Vernon Spencer, the young man
who escaped recently from the re
formatory at Hutchinson, stole a car
near Tyrone, and then stole several
more cars in New Mexico and Colora
do, was finally caught In the latter
state, tried and given two years in the
pen, according to word received by
Sheriff Dobson from officials In that
state.
T. F. Hopkins, one ot Seward coun
ty's most prominent farmers, has an
Immense stock sale advertised in this
issue of the Democrat. Mr. Hopkins
does not intend to leave the country
but is merely holding this sale to get
rid of some ot his surplus stock. He
has about the best bunch ot livestock,
mares, mules and hogs listed in the
bill we have seen In this country and
we Invite your attention to the bill.
There will be free lunch served at
noon.
7
Are You Going Away for
Your Winter Vacation..."
?
If so, we sell Travelers'
Cheques, payable any
where without identifica
tion.
D3
First National Bank
LIBERAL, KANSAS
Member of The Fedi ral Reserve Bank of Kansas City, and
operating under U. S. Government supervision and control.
