SUt6 Library ':j
six pes THE PKQCHE RECORD
ESTABLISHED SEP'T 17, 1870.
PIOCHE, 1 AXCOLX CX)UXTV, NEVADA, FRI DA V. SEPTEMBER 2, 1010
VOLUME XLVII; X UMBER 3.
fow; Valley Lease
Cuts Into Yuba Dike
AFTER HARD STRUGGLE COMPANY SEEMS ABOUT TO BE RE
WARDEDMILL MAY RE REBUILT AX IMPORTAX.', PIECE
Ls OF DEVELOPMENT FOR COMPANY
After several months of hard driv- months operation was burned and
ing the Meadow Valley Leasing Co. while the . management of that com-has.-made
connection with the 1200 j pany had in view the opening up of
level of the old Yubaworkings, into i the Yuba dyke, at a later date, owing
which no one has -been for something 'to the burning of their millingVant,
around 20 years, The , old Yuba has J they did not get to it and practically
a most envious reputation as an ore . retired, from the field of operation,
producer in the early days when high j being succeeded by the Meadow Val
grade lead ores, the only kind ship- ley Leasing Co., which has conduct
able under the early day conditions, ed the dyke development during the
were dispatched by wagons to the past few months, extending the cross
Salt Lake smelters via. Milford, cut running south from east of No. 5
Utah, and thence by railroad to Salt shaft to and across the dyke, and as
Lake. This entailed a wagon, haul of t the old Yuba workings was the ob
about 140 miles and took exceedingly 1 jective point, after encountering the
high grade lead-silver ore to stand hanging wall of the Yuba dyke, and
the transportation expenses in addi- -t finding no ore to speak of at that
tion to the high smelting charges point, they started east along the
exacted at that time. jvein to connect with the main Yuba
The records give the Yuba proper-; Workings and finally their efforts in
ty, known in those early days as the this respect have been realized.
SERIOUS INJURY TO
AMALGAMATED MINER
"American Flag" credit for a produc
tion of silver-lead and gold of some-
It is understood that a very good
ore showing has been encountered
thing over $5,000,000 and some of and further development is contem
; F. A. Murray, a miner employed
in No. 1 mine of the 'Amalgamated
Pioche Mines & Smelters corpora
tion, met with a serious accident
early yesterday morning by being
hit by a falling rock and which re
sulted in a broken spine. At this
writing he is getting, along as well
as could be expected, but the injury
is one of the kind where the chances
are against him. The injured man
has been a resident of Pioche for
several years and has many friend
who hope that he will not be per
manently disabled and that he will
soon be fully recovered.
Dr. Duckworth says the injury is
extremely serious.
UN A NCI XG OF ARCANE
PROPERTY UNDER WAY
II. W. Rand, who was in the city
this week with Mr. Lohman;n east
ern engineer, informed the Record
before his departure foi the' east
yesterday that arrangements are pro
gressing favorably for the financing
of the property of the Arcane Mining
company and contemplates that conditions-will,
be suchthat active devel
opment work will begin in the near
future.
Mr. Lohman expressed himself as
being well pleased with the Arcane,
as well as the Virginia-Louise and
as to the latter, was surprised to find
such enormous bodies of ore, which
are almost Identical to those' of the
Prince Consolidated company. Both
he and Mr.? Rand expect to return
in about three weeks.
CAMPAIGN' IN STATE IS
MAPPED OUT BY WOMEN
the ore shoots mined to make this plated by driving a raise to the Yuba
extraction were very arge and ex
ceedingly rich In the metals mention
ed. The Yuba main shaft caved
some 20 years ago placing the prop
erty out of the producing column
1100 level from the 1200 stope on
the ore shoot already encountered
and also a drift will be driven west
from the dyke crosscut into virgin
territory, where the indications all
ever since and no development or, point to being near ore. There is
exploration work was done in the , supposed to be a large tonnage of
property during all. this time, owing millable'ore in the old property, and
to law suits and the caving of the from results already obtained, we are
shaft, until about three years ago the
Yuba, Leasing & Develapment Co.
took hold through a lease from the
present owners and even under their
operations the Yuba Dyke, stated by
jengineers to be the mother lode of
the. pioche district, was neglected as
that company confined its operations
mainly to the deevlopment and open
ing of the Meadow Valley fissure on
which they also had a lease.
The Yuba company built a mill
last year which after only a few
informed that the reports in this res
pect will probably be fullly verified.
This will unquestionably mean the
rehabilitation of the Yuna mill in
Cuts 'ime, again ttartinf its wheels
hi iteration and adding it: quota to
me mineral production o" thig-district.
: ' "
The Record wishes the present op
cators every success in tin venturj
as their success certainly means
much to the Pioche district ami much
moie to the camp of Pioche proper.
ELDORADO CANYON
TEEMS WITH ACTIVITY
from Kingman and Chloride, which
crosses the river on Wisner's Ferry,
which has been built during the last
year, and is located at the foot of the
canyon. Coodsprings Gazette.
ELY DISTRICT IS
TOP OF BIG WATERSHED
HIGH SCHOOL NOTES
('. E. L. Gresh, mining operator of
Eldorado canyon, was In town Wed
nesday. He has been for the past
month iu Salt Lake City,, in. the .in
terests of Canyon properties.-
Eldorado conyon has within the
past year sustained a steady, healthy j Very few people of this district
growth. The Eldorado Nevada mine, are awaro of the fact that one of the
of which Q. A. Duncan Is general continental divides is formed from
manager, is working full force,- is , the summits surrounding the dis
. starting deep mining operations and trict, on the west and south, namely:
is milling and shipping bullion and ' Kimberly and Murray summits on
concentrates." "our "west; Bull whack in the south
The ofd Techattlcup mine, which end of Steptoe forming the drainajfe'
in the old days produced millions of between Steptoe and Cave valleys,
dollars, is now being worked in a ; the summit between Snake and Ham
scientific manner and lias a daily pro- jlin valley. Doc Bailey, who was con
duction of over 60 tons of ore. There ! nected with the forest ranger s-ir--is
as much bullion . being shipped vice for several years and has given
from Eldorado today as there is from I the subject much thought, says: "To
Oatman. " describe the situation more thor
oughly, e. will take. the drainage
from Kimberly summit. All the
water from that section drains to the
west, or W'nte river valley; raises at
White river and a short distance
south it sinks and does not again
come to the surface until it reaches
the Adams-McGill ranch at Hot
creek. Just south of Hot Creek the
water again sinks and rises in Pah-
ranagat valley; sinking again it
comes to the surface in Meadow vai
ley wash and theuce flows into the
Muddy at Moapa. From there it finds
its way to the Colorado and on into
the Gulf of California.
There are many good properties in
the canyon that are being worked
by the owners and being opened up.
Eldorado is confident that it3 dis
trict is going to draw the attention
of the mining world this fall and are
preparing. Among one of the most
notable properties is the Eldorado
Empire, of which Mr. Gresh is the
president and the moving spirit. He
is busy sinking to catch two veins
that come together on his property.
One of them is the vein of the fam
ous Wall Street mine, which has pro
duced millions in the past and which
Joins on to the Eldorado Empire on
the west. The other is a strong
'The water drainage to the east
north-south vein that Mr. Gresh has from Kimberly summit into Steptoe
opened up on his property. He will i valley sinks within a few miles, but
sink his shaft to a depth of 300 feet, j (there seems to be no question that it
which should tap both veins, the again rises at Wells. Of course all
Wall Street vein dipping to the south of the streams in the intermountain
while his own vein dips to the west, i country sink, which forms the basin
The Rand Mining company's proper- j drainage. Whether the subterranean
ty is a short distance from the Eldo-' drainage is to the Atlantic or the
rado Empire, and is also a good pro
ducer. The formation in the Canyon
i strong, with big vein . fractures
Pacific is a matter of conjecture, but
the fact remains that it does drain
to one, or the other,, or the greater
Managers of the Woman's party
are ready to conduct a thorough and
systematic campaign in every county
of the state from now until election
day. To enable organizers to have
facts at hand for every situation a
campaign text book has been prepar
ed which furnishes not only a his
tory of every Democratic congress
man who must be opposed because of
the opposition of his party to nation
al woman suffrage, but also the fig
ures of the presidential and congres
sional elections for years back in ev
ery district of the state. Through
a study of election returns : party
managers have decided how . their
forces must be distributed where ef
fort must be concentrated to defeat
President Wilson and the Democratic
candidates for the senate and house
in this state.
The workers of the Woman's party
who are already in Nevada are: Miss
Anne Martin, the national chairman
of the party, Miss Mabel Vernon, the
national secretary, Miss Alice Henkle
of Chicago and Miss Sara Grant of
St. Paul, Minn. " During the last
weeks of the campaign speakers of
national prominence will speak In
the principal towns of the state to
bring Nevada women voters the ap
peal to stand for the principle of na
tional woman suffrage rather than
for the interests of any 'national po
litical party. It is Miss Grant's par
ticular mission in the campaign to
explain how impossible it is for the
women of 20 stater, to get suffrage
by amending state constitutions. At
an open air meeting held at Second
and Virginia streets Saturday night
Miss Grant said:
"When President Wilson insists
that the only way for women to win
enfranchisement is by the state
method he condemns them to what
he knows is a long' and fruitless
struggle. Working by the states
women must overcome not only all
the opposition of the forces drawn
up against woman suffrage but in
surmountable constitutional difficul
ties. In my own state of Minnesota
an amendment in order to carry must
have not . merely a majority of the
votes cast on the measure itself but
a majority of all those cast at the
election. We will never win a suf
frage amendment under, such condi
tions. The women of 20 states are in
a hopeless condition.
"The only hope of the unenfran
chised women of the country is :.a
amendment to the constitution of the
United States. We therefore come to
western women voters to appeal to
them to use their political power to
help procure" the passage of tills
amendment. They can do it by show
ing all political parties ttiat women
will not give their votes to a parly
which has used its power to block
the national suffrage amendment.
That is the reason we are now Bik
ing women to withhold their support
from President Wilson and the Dem
ocratic candidates for senate anc"
house from this state."
Precinct organization in Reno for
the Woman's party , is rapidly being
forwarded by Miss Grant and Miss
Henkle who are in charge of that
work. A meeting will be held to
morrow afternoon at the home of
Mrs. Sardis Summerfield, 907 N. Vir
ginia street, for the organization of
the 12th precinct. Both Miss Grant
;and Miss Henkle, will speak. Reno
Gazette. -
Largest Enrollment In History of In
Nt it lit Ion Down at Panaru
Operator Is : j
Sanguine About Silver
NEVADAX PREDICTS WHITE MET AL WILL SOON SELL AT 75 CENTS
PER OUNCE MINES ACTIVE EVERYWHERE IX STATE
AT THE PRESENT TIME
and the formation of andesite with a j portion of the intermountain. country
monzonite contact is a splendid one ' would soon be converted Into a lake
tor gold to' make in.
There is a daily stage running to
the Canyon from Las Vegas, and also
one from Searchlight. There is also
a three times a week stage running
-Ely Record.
There are rumors af a wedding of
two popular young Pioche people
we wonder who they could be?
, (Special to the Record)
PAN'ACA, Sept. 28. There hat
ben a remarkable increase in the
number of students attending the
Lincoln County High School during
the past year. In 1914-5 only sev
enteen students' remained during the
school term. Last year there was
an increase of over 100 per cent in
fact 4 1 registerd. This year's regis
tration will no doubt be 25 per cent
larger than that of last year. This
increase is due in part at least to
the many practical courses now be
ing offered, such as science, agricul
ture, animal husbandry, woodwork,
sewing, economics, media n 1 c a 1
drawing, and orchestra.
le is also being realized that the
high school has an efficient faculty
and that the work done compares
favorably with that done in other
schools of the country.
The classes in sewing are plan
ning to make their own uniforms for
ttwr coming year. This idea was in
troduced into the school In order to
do away with the individual rivalry
in dress which is often felt In high
schools. The girls have selected
their own styles by classes and it is
to the just credit of each class that
the styles selected are conventional
and in keeping with true high school
spirit. We believe that the parents
will highly appreciate this move
ment.
A course in mechanical drawing
is being organized this week. The
instruction given will include the
care and use of drawing instruments,
free hand and block lettering, geo
metrical problems, projection, mater
ial sections, simple machine design,
house and barn plans, tracing and
blue-printing. The course is proving
very popular and quite a number
have already entered for the course.
The two orchestras are now organ
ized and are rehearsing regularly,
orchestra (a) meeting twice and or
chestra (b) three times each week.
Mr? Karl Bank is the instructor.
Last week the high school and
district school boards acted favor
ably on the suggestion of Principal
J. R. Smith regarding securing the
services of Dr. Armistead to examine
the teeth of the school children. This
was not made compulsory but those
desiring to take advantage of the
doctor's services could do so. More
than 80 pupils and students had
(their teeth examined. When the final
results were tabulated to our aston
ishment 58 per cent of the children
had defective teeth. Some had al
ready lost one, two or three perma
nent teeth and many needed fillings
or extractions.
The boys and girls who learned
that they had perfect teeth were very
proud Indeed, and many of those
needing attention had the work done.
The results in general will prove
very helpful, especially if the stu
dents carry out the instructions giv
en by the doctor regarding- care of
the teeth, etc.
The schools desire to thank Dr
Armistead for hi3 services which he
w kindly rendered free of charge
ANACONDA DIVIDENDS
TOTAL $181,000,000
"Never since I have been idenli
fiu with Mining in Nevada iim t.-.ore
been so much prospecting and devel
oping," said Frank Manson of the
V, .nern Ore Purchasing Comi.apv to
the Gazette. "While there h iv.j hern
no startling: discoveries or new ciui:
of unusual richness, yet the work is
bearing fruit in the way of a tremen
dously large output of the metals,
and we will continue to enjoy too
benefits of high prices which have
prevailed so far this year, and I le
lieve, will continue to prevail for the
rest of the year for a long tini-3 to
come.
"These benefits will result from
the development work done which
would not have been done had metal
prices been normal. Take copper,
for instance. With the metal Belling
around 27 to 28 cents a large num
ber of prospects and small mines
near the railroads have been able to
ship ore of very low grade, which
has provided a revenue for systemat
ic work that has resulted and will
continue to result in the making of
new mines. The same conditions ap
ply to silver, although this metal has
not advanced so far above normal as
copper. But the silver miner "has
been able to. make a profit on ore
less rich ore often is encountered.
"Silver is going higher there is
no doubt of that in my mind. You
will notice that it is slowly climbing
up, and I expect to see the quotation
established at 75 cents within a short
time. The silver market is affected
by inactivity at times, but you will
notice that it never fails to advance
when buyers enter the market. The
same conditions exist in lead and
spelter, both of which have gone up
within the past few days. The plac
ing of new orders for munitions will
be followed by further gains. There
are no heavy stocks to draw from as
in normal times these have been ex
hausted and the market is dependent
upon the dally production.
"The great activity in Nevada
comes home to us directly as buyers
of ore. Our Hazen plant, which is
eectrtcaly driven and modern in
every way, is taxed to its capacity
and it has kept ust Jumping to take
care of the ore. Our side tracks con
tain twenty-five to thirty cars of ore
all the time and we have to keep it
moving to avoid congestion. Nevada
is piling up wealth at a great rate
from its rich mineral resources and
the industry has been given an im
petus from which we will enjoy ben-
that he could not touch last year, and elits in the years to come." Reno
in taking out the low grade more or Gazette,
SALT LAKE ROUTE
THE "ROAD OF QUIET"
DISTRICT COURT IX
SESSION" AT VEGAS
New Mill Superintendent
Carl Austerman has succeeded. T.
H. Franklin as foreman of the mill
being operated by the Doris Mining
& Milling company.
Anaconda has declared its'tegular
quarterly dividend of $2 a -share.
This. calls for more than $4,660,000
on the 2,331,250 shares Issued. Here
tofore this year $11,656,250 has been
paid tn dividends; The new declara
tion will bring the Montana com
pany's total dividends up to $181,
000,000 in round numbers.
Howard Elliott, inspector of trans
portation of the Salt Lake Route,
was a caller in town last Wednesday
and distributed an interesting leaflet
directed to officers, employees and
the public. Here are some of the
things it contains:
"We want the Salt Lake Route
known as the "Road of Quiet."
Nothing adds so much to a journey
as a good night's rest; nothing de
tracts more from the pleasure of
traveling than a night's repose In
terrupted by noise. To be awaken
ed by loud talking, the banging of a
ruck handle on the station plat
form, the crashing of Ice into water
coolers, the blasting of a whistle or
the calling of signals on an adjoin-
ng track, is indeed disquieting.
"The Salt Lake Route has a good
many "talking points."
"We are the diagonal line to
Southern California.
'Our roadbed is smooth and our
cars are well built and comfortable.
"Our employes are capable and
courteously attentive.
'Our dining cars and lunch coun
ter service is excellent and for the
convenience of passengers our diners
on the Los Angeles Limited now run
through between Omaha and Los An
geles.
'Our trains reach Los Angeles.
Salt Lake City, Omaha and Chicago
at hours convenient for makiug con
nections in all directions.
"Our engineers make smooth
starts and stops.
"We have less desert than any
road entering California and two of
our through trains, the westbound
Pacific Limited, and the eastbound
Los Angeles Limited, traverse the
desert almost entirely by night.
"No passengers on the Salt Lake
Route have been killed in train ac
cidents in more than nine years. But
up to now we have not made a fea
ture of preventing noise on and
around passenger trains. That work
we now begin.
"Trainmen inside the cars will
avoid talking in the presence of
sleeping passengers. They will make
signs or whisper and caution pas
sengers to do likewise.
"Baggagemen will not allow truck
handles to fall to the platform with
District Judge Chas. Lee Horsey
convened court Thursday morning at
ten o'clock. The roll call of the
grand jury was the first business.
All being present they were instruct
ed to proceed with their deliberations
and retire, 1.
The trial jury roll was called, after
which the court proceeded with the
trial of Lou Groesbeck, indicted for
violation of the gambling law.
The following jurors were sworn
in to try the case: John Falvey,
Richard Cooper, W. J. McBnrney,
Geo. Weeks, Engene Barnum, T. C.
Higbie, John A. Leavitt, Horace
Jones, Ute V. Perkins, John F. Mil
ler, F. J. Rushton, J. P. Dunlop.
Saturday morning Richard Bus-
teed for the defendant, made a. mo-.
tion to dismiss the case on the
ground that the indictment failed to
state a public offense. The motion
was granted by the court.
The grand jury immediately there
after returned a true bill again
charging Lon Groesbeck with viola
tion of the gambling law. The de
fendant was arraigned and the time
set for pleading at 10 o'clock Mon
day morning.
Lena Carl Rule was granted .a di
vorce from W. L. Rule on the ground
of non-support. Stevens & Hender
son appeared for plaintiff.
Dorothy Sayre Butler was granted
a decree of divorce from Henry Cov
ington Butler on the grounds of cru
elty and non-support. W. R. Thomas
appeared for the plaintiff. Las Ve
gas Age.
fires to avoid popping off of engines.
"Employes whose duties require
them to fill ice coolers will not
throw, push, nor kick the ice cakes,
but will let them slide easily into the
containers, and will place and re
move ladders with a minimum of
sound.
"Cars will be switched together as
quietly as possible, switchmen re
membering that a shock to the equip
ment may also be a shock to the pas
sengers. " ,r ..
"Running a railroad is a "contin
uous process. We are always'open.
Our trains operate night and day.
a thud. Instead, they will put them ( We never sleep. Our passengers do,
down gently. j however, and we want them to arise
"Enginemen will not sound the in the morning with the realization
whistle nor nrig the bell when along- that they have had a safe, a smooth,
side passenger train except as provid
ed in Rule 32 of the rules and regu
lations of the operating department,
and they will properly regulate their
a rapid, a comfortable, and a peace
ful journey on the "Road of Quiet."
"Let 'Mum' be the word on th
Salt Laka Route."
1 .
