-p
HIT
SOUTH BUSINESS
1-1-14
VOL XXXIII NO 25
Auditor, County
WAUSEON, OHIO, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1916
$1.50 PER YEAR
G0UWFY
0
TMSUME.
PLEASANT SUNDAY
fen'a CUm of Methodist Church
Wtiucon Visit Men'a Class of
Mvthodiat Church of Fayette
Chicken Dinner and Profitable
Iloura.
Elfthty-aix men member of the
Man'a Class of the Methodist Church
entrained in twenty autoa left Wau
aeon last Sunday morning at eight
o'clock bound for Fayette as guests
of the Men'a Class of the Methodist
church at that place. The Wauseon
men were returning the visit made by
the Fayette men some time ago. The
viaitora arrived in Fayette in time for
Sunday School at 9:30 and the
preaching service which followed.
Rev. Cook, pastor of the Fayette
church delivered a sermon which
seemed especially appropriate for the
occasion, speaking on the theme of
"Church Attendance" and using as
his text the words concerning the
habit of Jesus in regard to attendance
at The Synagogue, "As his Custom
Was." The Sunday School hour and
tha church service were very much
appreciated by the Wauseon men as
was also the fine chicken dinner serv-
APPRECIATED BY A
COMPETENT JUDGE
The following letter is self ex
planatory and furnishes the voters of
the Fifth Congressional another rea-
oflson why they should return Hon. N.
fc,. Matthews to Washington as re
presentative of this district at the No
vember Election. Mr. Mann of Illi
nois the writer of the letter was the
Republican House leader in the re
cent Congress and Mr. Colb, at pres
ent manager of the Turnbull Wagon
Company at Defiance, Ohio, the party
to whom the letter is addressed was
formerly a resident of Illinois and a
close personal friend of Mr. Mann:
"James R. Mann, Member of Con
gress. United States House of Re-
nrewntativea. Office of ReDublican
I .aaAor CttritrA R 1 1 i M i n (r Wfishinortrtn t
' ' V".v. , . . .
D. C. Sept. 7, 1916.
Mr. Alonzo J. Colt,
Turnbull Wagon Co.,
Defiance, Ohio.
My Dear Colt:
Some days ago Congressman Mat
thews was in and handed me your
compliments, expressed in your letter
to him. I thank you. I might say
that Matthews is making good as a
member of Congress. He has done
some extremely good work. -I think
he is one of the best of our new Re
publicans. Yours sincerely,
(sig) JAMES R. MANN."
FATAL HCCIDEHT
M. R. Snavely Hurled From Auto to
Instant Death Machine Executes
a Complete Somersault and Lands
Right Side Up Car Slightly Damaged.
ANNOUNCEMENT.
The following is clipped from the
d by the men of the Fayette church Tribune, Cape pirardeau, Mo., Sept.
in tha church dining room. Between 7th:
aixty and seventy Fayette men sat "Announcement was made yester-
down with their guests making about! day afternoon of the engagement of ena oi tne raajator was some
one hundred and fifty men eating to-I Miss Rose Leming, daughter of Mr.wnat ent; t30?6 was cranked
One of the residents of Wauseon
came suddenly to the end of his mor
tal life last Tuesday afternoon when
M. R. Snavely was thrown from his
automobile and instantly killed.
.Mr.! Snavely had been to Pettisville
and was returning to Wauseon at
about four o'clock when the accident
occurred. He had crossed the New
York Central and Toledo and Indiana
railway tracks at Pettisville about
forty rods north of the tracks the. ma
chine which was going at a rather
high rate of speed began to skid and
in the endeavor to bring it straight in
the road in some way the machine
was turned over end ways and Snave
ly was thrown from the machine
striking on his head in the road,
crushing the top of his skull and
causing instanteous death. The auto
seemed to Jiave turned a complete
somersault and was found upright
north of Mr. Snavely's body and head
ed South toward Pettisville. There
was no perceptible injury to the car
except that the water funnel at the
front end of the radiator was some-
gether and enjoying each other's so
ciety. v
Following the dinner with Profes
sor Chase, who is the teacher of the
Fayette Men'a Class, as toastmaster
in hour or more was spent in after
dinner talks and speeches. F. H.
Reighard as teacher spoke for the
Wauseon Men's Class; Earl Baldwin,
president of the Fayette Class spoke
for that class. Other speakers were
Judge Wolf, A. H. Barber, C. J. Ives,
Mayor Roll Hoy, Dr. Wm. H. Schulz
and C. M. Spring of Wauseon; O. B.
Huffman, C. K. Miller, Rial Belding
and Mr. Cullis of Fayette.
Mr. C. M. Spring spoke for the old
soldiers Sunday School class of Wau
seon of which he is" a member.
Mr. (fullis, who is now located in
S wanton aa the Editor of the Swan
ton Enterprise called tha attention of
the men present to the advantages of
getting together in such gatherings
as they were enjoying and offered the
opinion that if "Kaiser Bill" and the
and Mrs M. E. Leming to be married
to Prof. Frank S. Kenyon, head of the
music department at the Normal
School. Mr. Kenyon came to the
Cape about a year ago when he took
charge of' the music department at
the Normal School. He is an accom
plished musician and has given several
recitals that have met with success.
1 The engagement of Miss Leming
and Prof. Kenyon was made known at
a very pretty luncheon given by Miss
Mary Kochtitzky yesterday afternoon
to fifteen of Miss Lemings most inti
mate friends. Each guest received as
a favor a corsage bouquet of pink
Ophelia roses. The announcement of
the engagement was made known by
tiny place cards upon which were writ
ten the names of the young pair and
the month of their wedding, Novem
ber, the exact date was not made
known. , '
COUNTY LIBRARY
There is no county library in Ful-
rest of the boys, who are playing at.1"" cuum "u ",Brc ?rfu KrlV- u
being kings ind emperors over in of movement toward the estabhsh
v.S. kT.i i t ,j w ment of such an institution and. m
getting togetheJ at pot luck dinners he meant there is the public li-.
such as this there never would have bfttry Wau,sen wlth totaI .f
been any European War. j Bbout ,b0 volumes open to any res.-
., . ,. . dent of the county so far as the read-
Fol owing the after dinner speeches : in(r room nd tne reference . library I
m rui:ii iiuui was ciijuvcu miu lilt?
Wauseon men started homeward
about four o'clock having enjoyed a
very pleasant anl profitable Sunday.
up and run back to Wauseon without
giving any trouble.
Coroner Hartman was notified and
went to the scene of the accident,
later Mr. Lloyd Edgar of the firm of
Edgar and Van Rensselaer brought
the body to the undertaking rooms of
that firm in Wauseon and a brother
and sister of Mr. Snavely were noti
fied by wire of his death and instruc
tions concerning the disposition of the
body asked for. . j.
Mr. Snavely who -was about thirty
five years of age has been a resident
of Wauseon for the past four or five
years, for a number of years he was
engaged in the lightning rod business
here in the county, for a timeconduct
ed a restaurant on North Fulton
street and for the past two years has
been employed by E. C. Reynolds as
a salesman.
He was unmarried and so far as is
known has no other relatives than a
brother living at Amherst and a sis
ter living at New Haven, Ohio. Mr.
Reynolds speaks of him as an excell
ent salesman and he was generally
liked by those who knew him for his
amiable and genial disposition.
WEDDED
Miss Goldie Punches of Oak Shade
nd Mr. Orin V. Hill of Morenci.
evening in thevWeek with the excep-1 Michigan, were married at Tedrow
tion of Fridays. Any citizen of! September 21, at 10 o'clock. Rev. A.
COUNTY CAMPAIGN OPENS
Republicans of Fulton County Meet at Couit House
arid Organize Hughes-Willis-Herrick League
Hon. R. W. Austin To Speak at Delta
Thursday, October 5th
Answering the call of Chairman I what the Republicans principles and
Outcalt of the Executive Committee.: policies have accomplished in the
of the Republican County Central
Committee, something over fifty re-;
publicans from all parts of the coun
ty gathered at the court house last
Saturday afternoon. Chairman Out
calt presided over the meeting and af
ter calling it to order announced that
the purpose of the meeting was to or
ganize a Hughes-Willis-Herrick Lea
gue in Fulton county, he explained
the plan and purposes of the league
stating that Hughes-WiUis-Hemck
prosperity and growth of this nation
ana they believe that these same
principles and policies will be of real
service in bringing the country to
that state of efficiency which will in
sure the peace and prosperity of its
citizens and make the nation a real
source of help and strength to the
nations of the world.
After the organization of the Lea
gue was completed, Chairman Out
calt called the new president, Mr.
Waltz to the chair; Mr. Waltz in
Clubs would be organized in each pre.
cinct in the county and that these i ringing speech thanked the members
When organized Will form parts CI;fnr hnnnr mnferrerf imnn liim as.
the County League. Mr. Outcalt an-8ured them of his determination to
nounced that Mr. V. W. Curtis secre-, d0 an m his power for the success of
tary of the executive committee had the Republican ticket this Fall and
been .appointed organizer for the asked fnr th heartv and earnest, re
operation of every member.
county.
Opportunity was then given for
those present to sign constitution of
the County League, the result was
Short talks from the candidates for
county office and others all express
ed . their determination to work for
tyiat all those who were present sign-,he success of the whole ticket, the
ed this constitution, so that the Lea-! names of Mr. Matthews and Mr. Cass
gue started out with a membership of j were mentioned by several of the
fifty. The next step was the organi- J speakers and the spirit evinced by
zation of this league by the selection these speakers was to do all that
of officers consisting of President, C. t they could to roll up majority enough
R. P. Waltz of Delta; Vice President, j for them in Fulton county to over
F. E. Kenyon, of Wauseon; and; come Democratic majorities in other
Secretary-Treasurer, W. W. Acker-i counties and send them back to Con
man of Wauseon. There was much igress and the State Senate respect
enthusiasm evident in the meeting ive-ly.
and the determination to roll up thei Announcement was made of the
largest republican majority in the;openjng of the campaign in Fulton
history of the county for every re-lcounty by Hon- Richard W. Austin
publican candidate on the ticket from 1 0f Knoxville, Tennessee at Delta on
imncs ju. iiugneo uuwii n ura uui Tnursdav evening October otn: Mr.
candidate for county office with no
breaks in between was manifest in
the talks from the various speakers.
Austin is not only one of the best
speakers of the country, throughly
posted in regard to the political is-
The "realization that the battle of! ciiDB rf fViia ra mra i om Kilt. Vio is lan
the ballots on November 7th will be;a of marked ability and is large
a battle for principles and policies of hy responsible for the defeat of the
government rather than a battle over ,bin to independence to the Philli
personalities is deep seated m the;pinea which would have been turning
minds of the Kepubucan voters oljioose an undeveloped untrained unedu-
All are united in praising the hos
pitality and good fellowship of the
rayett men
the county mat have the privilege of
drawing books from this library by
the payment of 25 cents for three
months or $1.00 for an entire year.
D. Miller the pastor of the bride per
formed the ceremony. The happy
couple will reside at Morenci where
Mr. Hill is employed.
Fulton county.
The ideas and theories in regard
to governmental methods of the oppo
sition party have been tried out and
they have failed, signally failed; in
deed they have brought the nation as
a whole to the verge of a crisis un
like any which this government has
ever been called upon to face in the
past. A crisis that has to do with fin
ances, with our relations with other
nations and with our internal rela
tions. The people of this nation know
Pile YomI
Favorite
"Men's
cated people unfit and unable to gov
ern themselves to the rapacity and
greed ofnations who are waiting for
some excuse' to take their island coun
try from them. Mr.. Austin is a
man who does things and Fulton
county is indeed fortunate in securing
him as a speaker. The address will
be given in the City Hall at Delta
next Thursday evening and every citi
zen of Fulton county ought to hear
him. Delta extends a cordial invita
tion to all.
ii
BRDKEN-IN-TD-PBINT"
Wauseon Has . Been Discovered by
Musical Press Extensive Comment
by Local Papers Concerning the
Alice Nielsen Concert Here Put
Wauseon on the Map.
Wauseon has "broken-into-print" in
the big musical journals. From the
tact that this city the smallest on
the Redpath seven-day circuit heard
an artist such as Alice Nielsen, maga
zine stories have been developed that
are highly complimentary.
In recent issues of at least three
leading musical magazines Musical
America, Musital Courier and Musi
cal Leader there have appeared ar
ticles by George G. Whitehead of the
Redpath Bureau's publicity depart
ment, regarding the tour of Miss
Nielsen which closed with a concert
at Maysville, Kentucky, September 4.
Features have appeared in leading
newspapers of Ohio and adjoining
states, and the official Lyceum -and
Chautauqua papers have commented
extensively along the same line. :
From the article appearing in the
September 21st , issue of Musical
Courier, published in New York City,
the following paragraph relating to
Wauseon is taken:
"From Clyde to Cincinnati, from
Wauseon to Wheeling, the Nielsen
party toured in historic private car
"Elysian". Regardless of population
each city contributed a capacity au-;
dience. Census takers say Clyde,
Ohio, has 2,815 inhabitants, while
Wauseon's population is but 2,650, ac
( Continued on page 4)
"HINMAN HAND SHAKE"
"The Hinman Handshake" is the
title of a neat little four page paper
which is published in the interests of
the Hinman Milking Machines. The
July 29th issue of the current year
is devoted to the territory for which
D. W. Myers of Wauseon is distribu
tor and contains Mr. Myres' picture
as well as some excellent cuts of. the
Holstein herds of Jos. Burkholder at
Wauseon and the Beaver Valley Stock
farm at Morenci.
IMPROVEMENTS -ALONG
LINE OF D. T. & I. RY.
The following items of information
from the "central offices of the Detroit
Toledo isirid .' Ironton Railway indicate
that; the wave of ' prosperity has
reached that road:
The : six monster freight engines
purchased by theD. T. & I.iare now
all in active use.
At Washington Court House the
road is preparing to double the size
of its" freight depot to better handle
the greatly increased business at that
point. '
In view of the general car short
age throughout the country, the D.
T. & I. is holding every possibly car
to accomodate patrons of the road.
Each passenger - train now saves
five minutes at ' Washington Court
House where' the " D. T. & I. now oc
cupies -the hew Union Station, elim
inating one of two stops previously
made.
Numerous new industrial concerns
have opened along the D. T. & I. dur
ing the past 12 months.
1916 BUCKEYE CORN SPECIAL
J. R. Clark, Director of Junior Con
tests of The Board, of Agriculture of
Ohio informs us that "the only Offi
cial Tour of the Corn Boys and Girls
of Ohio to Washington will occur the
first week in December.
Everybody is welcome to go along
with the winners. We will visit Pitts
burg; ' the , mountains and battle
fields of ' . Maryland and Virginia:
Washington, "with all its historic and
sacred places; Baltimore, Philadelphia
and New York,- the greatest city in
America. ' "We will be gone one week,
beginning December 4th.
More than four times as many trips
are pledged as last year and more are
coming. Domestic Science Contests
may be held up to and including No
vember 10th.
. AN ARTISTIC ARTESAN
John .Trondle is a good blacksmith
as everybody .who has had occasion to
patronize , his shop on North j Fulton
street can testify; but John is. more
than a first class artesan, he possess
es real artistic , talent as is evidenced
by. some .rough sketches done at odd
moments , when, the .press of' heavy
work was lightened .for a time., These
sketches . indicate ihat John with
chance to work and develop his talent
would be a real artist.
FREE LECTURE
Lectures on Poultry Raising and Care
of Poultry by Professors From O.
S. U. Given at Court House in
Wauseon.
The Wauseon Poultry and Pet
Stock Association has completed ar
rangements to have a course of lec
tures on poultry and the handling of
poultry to be given at the court house .
at Wauseon during the fall and com
ing winter. ' y.
These lectures will be absolutely
free and all people interested in poul
try or the production of eggs are wel
come and urged to hear this full
course of lectures by professors of
Poultry Husbandry of the Ohio State
University.
The first lecture "The Farm Flock"
will be given Thursday evening, Oc
tober 12th, beginning at 7:30.
' These lectures will be in a series
one supplementing the other, through
the whole course.
Other lectures will be on: "Pre
vention of Diseases," "Selecting the
Good Layers," "The Selecting and
Care of Breeding Stock," "Incuba
tion," "Brooding and Feeding Young
Chickens," and "Poultry Houses."
Start in with the first lecture and
don't miss any of them. They are
worth while. Tell your neighbors
about them and urge them to come
with you.
EXHIBITING POTATOES.
Exhibits at county and state fairs
have been suggested as an import
ant means for the improvement of
varieties of potatoes. Although some
counties list more than a hundred
varieties, only seven axe of sufficient
importance to warrant extensive
planting, according to S. N. Green, of
the Ohio Experiment Station. These
varieties are: ' Beauty of Hebron,
Carman No. 3, Early Ohio, Early
rose, Green Mountain, Irish Cobbler
and Rural New. Yorker No. 2.
In the Station's Monthly Bulletins
for August and September he gives
suggestions , regarding exhibits and
identification of varieties. The points
in potato judging are also included.
USE McCALL'S DRESS PATTERNS
GOOD FELLOWS AND A FORD
Last Monday evening a great big
fine looking fellow and a meek little
Ford came t into Wauseon from ,the
East; the big fellow proved to be
Rev. Hubert C. Herring, Jr., pastor of
the Congregational . church at Bur
lington, Wisconsin, a seminary class
mate of Rev. W. C. Schafer pastor of
the Wauseon Congregational church.
Kev. Herring was returning from
Boston, Mass., where he had been
spending his vacation, to his work in
Wisconsin; which explains the pres
ence of the "meek little Ford", his
vacation companion, running right
along with him from Burlington, Wis
consin, to the centre of the Universe
down in Boston, Massachusetts and
faithfully running back home with
him after the Summer play spell. Mr.
Hemng found his "erst-whue". chum
Rev. Schafer, stayed all night with
him and then on Tuesday morning
took him along in the "meek bttle
Ford" as far as Chicago o that they
might live over again the "good old
days" at school. Mr. Schafer return
ed Thursday looking as though ha had
renewed his youth.
GEORGE A. HEATH
While having sold at different
times in his twenty-six years' exper
ience some Behr Bros., A. B". .Chase,
Everett. Schiller. Story. & Clark and
Mehlin instruments,, George A. Heath
of Wauseon.' features the Straube line
of pianos and player-pianos, and has
on display at his warerooms, on South
Fulton street a complete showing of
the latest models. Mr. Heath first be
came associated with the retail piano
industry in 1890. He has installed
one of the most beautiful retail piano
stores in Fulton county, and is known
for many miles around as "the piano
man of Wauseon." He also features
the Columbia Grafnola, and gives
wide display in the.weekly papers to
this end of the business, which he
has developed wonderfully in the past
few years. The Chicago Indicator.
Musical Journal.
SUPERIORS SCALP INDIANS
, . Tha Superior Base Ball Team came
back and defeated the Wauseon In
.fis, Sunday, to the tune :of 5 to 4.
.-iStickley, a former member of the
Indian team, and for some time pre
vious to last Sunday, considered by
them a candidate for the scrap heap,
pitched for the Superiors. He proved
too much however, for his former
team mates, who, all but dislocated
themselves in endeavoring to find the
ball. In addition to pitching in old
time form, he received splendid sup
port at every stage of the game.
By defeating the Indians, the Su
perior team claims the city champion
ship.
KNIGHTS OF PYTHIAS
All members of Wauseon Lodge No.
156 Knights of Pythias will take no
tice that there will be a grand rally
of the membership of this lodge at
the next regular meeting, Tuesday
evening Ocober 3rd. Work in the
Third rank will be followed by re
freshments. Every member should be
present. Important announcements
regarding the Fall and Winter work
of tha Lodge.
CHARLEY GARMON, C. C.
WEATHER BUREAU '
.Forecast for tha week beginning
Sundav. September 24. 1916 l
Ohio Valley and Tennessee: Fair
weather will prevail until Tuesday or
Wednesday when there will be local
rains followed by fair weather the
latter part of the week.,
Region of the Great Lakes: Fair
weather "will prevail until Tuesday or
Wednesday, when there will be local
rains followed by fair and cooler wea
ther the latter part of the week.
Special scenic effects, entrancing
music and sones and a clean, delight
ful play will be seen tonight when
Freckles appears at the Princess
Theatre.
Copyright Hart Schaffncr k Marx
HERE is every reason to call
R VARSITY FIFTY FIVE the
young men's favorite. It is made by
Mart Schaffner & RJJarx
- The name covers a number of variations; and a num
ber of styles' all stylish and correct.
See the new fall models of Varsity Fifty Five here:
they're ready now. $18.00 to $25.00.
THEY ARE NOW
HERE
Ladies' Most Beautiful
Fall Coats
Together With
Misses' and Children's
Apparels
WHEN you come to inspect our array of just arrived COATS, you will observe that
we have assembled a variety more than extensive enough too meet the precise
angle of every feminine viewpoint-. EXTREME or STUDIOUSLY modest but all
DEPENDABLY CORRECT and MODISH. PRICE requirements too are pleasing for
they are MEDIUM. x , . .
THE FARM CREDIT BILL
Stetson Hats
Florsheim Shoes
Eiarrison & FunEdiouser
Home of Good Clothes and Shoes
Bros.
Congress has passed it and the President has signed
it. So far so good. But the underlying principle of
getting a loan under the regulations of this new bill, is
after all, a good reputation, ability and resources upon
which to obtain the loan.
The same old rule; the rule that has determined the
making of any loan from time immemorial.
Any farmer, any man, can build up for himself a
credit standing that will entitle him to the confidence
and the financial assistance of his fellow men.
As the bank is one of the principal institutions
through which men build up their credit rating we invite
you to become a regular customer of the
FIRST NATIONAL BANK
WAUSEON, OHIO
Our Ideal Millinery
's Smartest Hats
For Ladies and Misses
ALL the NEW FALL MILLINERY
MODES which are most favored this
season are found here in abundance and
most effectively trimmed. Prices are
particularly at r icti e when you consider
the quality and rich beauty of designs.
Special Assortment
Fancy Towels and Towel
Sets
These separate towels are more
attractive than ever and you will want
to make your selection as soon as you
se them.
Prices 25c to 85c each
TOWEL SETS in pink and blue in
cluding three pieces, we are offering at
most remarkable figures per set 89 C
Fall Apparel For the Home
Rugs
ROOM size RUGS, in regular
and extra sizes see our splendid
new line, our prices are, a
Revelation.
Linoleums
Window Shades
Curtains
Marquisette curtains are all
the vogue showing of this time
our NEW FALL delivery in
the very finest qualities and
beautiful patterns
From S 1 .25 to $6.00 per pair
Wauseon's Exclusive Dry Goods Store
SPENCER-EDGAR-VOLLMER Co.
When the Most Popular Prices Prevail for Quality Considered
