VOTE AND WORK AGAINST ALL REFERENDUM MEASURES
Education
Organization
Emancipation
VOL. XXV.
LEGISLATIVE REPRESENTATIVES OF STATE
FEDERATION COMPELS OBSERVANCE
OF THE LAW
Pess dispatches from Olympia dur
ing ihe past week contained the in
teesling information that "the labo
leaders who threatened to sue thi
secretary of state regarding the man
ncr in which the referendum meas
ures were to appear on the hallo
had found themselves mistaken tint
backed down." This statement is s(
far from the facts that H. L. Hughes
who initiated the action against 11k
secretary of state, has issued the fol
lowing statement of the facts in tin
case:
By H. L. HUGHES
In the matter of the suit that was
brought against Secretary of State
I. M. Howell by myself through At
torney C. J. France, of Seattle, to com
pel that official to place the seven
referendum measures upon the ballot
in accordance with the plain pro
visions of the law, Mr. Howell has re
ceded from his position and announced
determination to place these measures
upon the ballot in the misleading form
in which he had already placed them
in the state pamphlet containing all
the initiated and referred measures
and the proposed constitutional amend
ment.
While the questions will now appear
upon the ballot in legal form, great
damage has already been done
through their misstatement in the
pamphlet and the illegal and unwar
ranted argument for the bills which
he injected into that document; and
what are we to think of a state of
ficial' who stoops to such political
jobbery as that of which Mr. Howell
has been guilty in this case?
Inspired News
Immediately following Mr. Howell's
somewhat graceful yielding to this de
mand for a correction, what appears
to be "inspired news" was sent out
from Olympia to this effect:
"Attorney General Tanner an
nounced tonight that the pro
posed suit to be brought by H. L.
Hughes, a Spokane labor man,
through Attorney C. J. France, of
Seattle, for an injunction to re
strain I. M. Howell, secretary of
state, from placing certain matter
on the printed November ballot in
connection with the referendum
measures, has been dropped. The
labor leaders were under the im
pression that the 'popular* names
given the measures in the office
of Secretary of State Howell, to
gether with instructions as to
voting on them, found in the
white book, would be printed on
the ballot."
The "labor people" were not under
any misapprehension in thsi matter.
Mr. Howell's office had already pre
pared the copy for the ballot, and It
was exactly as it appeared in the
pamphlet and would have so appeared
this suit. The statement in the
pamphlet is itself a violation of the
plain provisions of the law which Mr.
Howell has for his guidance in pre
paring both the pamphlet and the bal
lot. Mr. Howell had stated in the
pamphlet that the questions would ap
pear upon the ballot in that form, and
relying upon that statement I brought
suit to enjoin him. Mr. France, my
attorney, filed this suit in Thurston
County last Thursday. When the at
torney general learned the suit was
brought he thought the matter could
be corrected without the necessity of
proceeding with the suit. Mr. France
then went to the office of the secre-
'tary of state with Mr. Tanner, the at
torney general, and found that the
secretary of state had the Illegal
form of ballot already prepared to
send to the printer. Mr. Tanner told
Mr. Woods, of the secretary of state's
office, that the form they proposed
was illegal, and in the presence of
Mr. France, my attorney, and In the
presence of Mr. Tanner, the form of
ballot was corrected so as to conform
to the provisions of the statute. This
correction was made as a direct result
of the suit, and of course after having
been made there was no reason for
pressing with the case.
Howell Favors Measures
Unquestionably Mr. Howell desired
to see these referendum measures
passed by the reactionary legislature
lof I!US become laws, and lie therefore
cunningly arranged the matter in the
pamphlet in such a manner as to mis
lead the voters into voting in favor
'of them and opposed to their real In
tention. Notwithstanding the fart
that he yielded to the demand of this
Isuit, which was that he comply with
the plain provisions of the law. it is
important that the people of this state
know the character of man who holds
this important public office within
their gift; atid I therefore make this
plain statement of the three particu-
lars in which he violted the law in
the manner these matters were placed
in the pamphlet, and would have vio
lated it In the ballot had suit not been
commenced.
Chapter 183, Laws of Washington,
1913, provides that the caption to a
referendum measure shall be in this
language: "PASSED by the legisla
ture and ordered referred hy petition."
Mr. Howell stated this caption: "PRO
POSED to the people by referendum
petition." A very cunning form of
suggestion that was undoubtedly in
tended to prepare the voter for favor
able action upon the bill.
As a second violation of the law,
Mr. Howell followed the title of the
measure, and immediately preceding
the form of question to be voted upon,
these words: "To sustain the legis
lative act, vote FOR." Is this not an
argument, or suggestion, to the voter
to vote in favor of the act? It costs
| any outsider just $200 per page to
(get an argument into the pant
i phlet upon any measure contained in
it. Did Mr. Howell pay $200 per page
for this argument, or $1400 for the
seven arguments, or is this one of the
perquisites of his office?
Clear Violation of Law
In the third instance Mr. Howell
clearly violated the law in the mis
statement of the form of the question
to be marked on the ballot by the
voter. He originally stated it as fol
lows, taking for an example Referen
dum Measure No. 3: "For Initiative
and Referendum Act "
and "AGAINST Initiative and Refer
endum Act ." The law, which
lay before him for his guidance in the
preparation of the matter for both the
pamphlet and the ballot, each of which
must be identical with the other, pro
vides in plain, direct and unmistakable
English that the form of the question
shall be "FOR Referendum Measure
No. " and "AGAINST Refer
endum Measure No. ."
Of course, Mr. Howell complies with
the mandate of the law when some
one takes the trouble to enforce it
against him, but what if he had suc
ceeded in putting this political job
over on the voters of this state? The
very form of the misstatement of this
question would have led many voters
who favor the initiative and referen
dum to have voted for this act, the
purpose of which is to make inop
erative the initiative and referendum,
when as a matter of fact they would
not have been misled into voting
wrong with the question stated as the
law provides.
An even more flagrant violation is
to be found in the statement of the
question in the matter of the anti
picketing bill, Refereindum Measure
No. 6. Here Mr. Howell states the
question in the pamphlet, and it would
also have appeared on the ballot had
it not been for this suit, as follows:
"FOR the Picketing Measure "
and "AGAINST the Picketing Meas
ure ." Quite likely any voter
who favors the right to picket would
have voted FOR after reading that
it was A PICKETING MEASURE,
only to learn later what he was vot
ing for was an ANTI-PICKETING
measure, which it is in fact.
Still Misleading Voters
I am glad that this matter will now
go upon the ballot in the proper form.
The arguments and false suggestions
which Mr. Howell injected into the
pamphlet, however, will go on doing
their work by preaching day in and
day out all through this oampalgn to
the people to vote against all referred
measures, including the proposed con
stitutional amendment, limiting the
right to suffrage, as the safe way of
and the Constitutional Amendment
The Labor Journal
BAGLEY AND THE UNIONS
In Detroit, Mich., there are two
companies under the Bagley name,
namely. Jno. J. Bagley & Co., which
is the tobacco company, and the Bag
ley Land Company, Inc. These com
panies have different stockholders and
are two separate concerns.
Some time ago the Bagley Land
Company. Inc., let out a contract to
construct a building and the unions
went to the land company and asked
them to use union labor, so the land
company called In the contractor and
asked him to use union labor, hut he
refused. The contract had been pre
viously signed, so the land company
could do nothing.
The local union then issued a boy
cott notice to all the locals against the
Bagley tobaccos, which is a different
company, and many of the union men
thought that this action of the Detroit
local was very unfair.
The Bagley Tobacco Company is
about the oldest union tobacco com
pany in the world and has its own
union printing shop and its own union
box factory, and the more Bagley to
bacco you use the more you help the
unions.
There have been false reports put
out by salesmen of non-union firms
that Bagley is no longer a union house
and many of the union men have
fallen into this trap and stopped using
Bagley tobaccos.
The more Bagley tobacco you use
the more you help the unions, but how
many of you union men have scab
tobacco on your hip this minute?
JN'O. J. BAGLEY & CO.
Bulletins From Industrial Relations Committee
New York.—"The street railway
men of New York City are now wag
ing the greatest fight for trades union
ism and industrial freedom that this
year of great victories and trades
unionism has produced throughout the
nation. W. B. Fitzgerald, national or
ganizer for the Amalgamated Associa
tion of Street and Electric Employees,
backed by the American Federation of
Labor, and especially by the organized
labor movement of Greater New York,
has come to a clinch with the Inter
borough and allied street railways
companies, backed by the Morgan and
associated financial interests," says a
report to the Committee on Industrial
Relations, by Dante Barton, member
of the committee, who has investi
gated the strike situation.
"From Wall Street has gone forth
the order that trades unionism in the
City of New York and in the nation
must be crushed," the report con
tinues. "This is a national decree of
the incorporated money power of the
nation. The evidences are multiply
ing that all the forces in the United
States that are lined up in the bank
ing headquarters of New York have
drawn together, or are drawing to
gether for an industrial war on the
workers who are seeking the oppor
tunities of prosperity to free them
selves from industrial servitude.
"The challenge was thrown down to
labor here by the Interborough and
the Morgan interests, as a climax to
the declaration of war on organized
labor in California, to the increasing
efforts of the steel trust to beat down
the organization of the workers in the
Pittsburgh district, in Youngstown and
in the Minnesota Mesaba Range. It
came in response to the efforts of the
National Association of Manufacturers
to break up trades unionism, and
finally it was thrown down in des
perate resistance to the great victory
for the eight-hour day, won by the
four railroad brotherhoods.
"The fight on the street railway
employees and the Amalgamated was
forced by the Interborough, and Its
controlled New York Railways Com
pany, after those corporations had
treacherously lead its employees and
the Amalgamated to believe that its
recording our opposition to these bills
which were passed by the last legis
lature in the interest of special privi
lege.
In addition to that, let us also hope
that the voters will elect some other
man to the office of secretary of state,
and relegate Mr. Howell to private
life, as a wholeeome warning that the
people will no longer tolerate cheap
political jobbery on the part of men
whom they honor with high positions
of political trust.
THE OFFICIAL PAPER OF THE
DEVOTED TO THE INTEREST
EVERETT, WASH., FRIDAY. SEPTEMBER 29, 1016
TRADES
COUNCIL
NEWS
The Trades Council was called to
order by the president, W. C. Hall.
The credentials of, Rae LockWOOd,
Tillie Freeman and Howard of the
Cooks and Waiters were read and the
delegates seated.
A letter was read from the Cigar
makers' Union of Milwaukee that the
Coraza Cigar Company's cigars are
not union made.
The Longshoremen repot ted that
they expected their international
president.
The Stage Workers donated $15 to
the Shingle Weavers and reported the
Riverside theatre still unfair.
The Label League had o good
meeting and on next Friday evening
they would have an open meeting, to
which everybody is invited.
Brother Tauver was elected trustee
to fill the balance of Broth, r Walkers'
term.
The Council adjourned early so the
members could attend the dance given
for the benefit of the Shingle Weavers,
which was both an enjoyable and
financial success.
hostility to them had ended. They
violated, both legally and morally, the
contractual pledge that ' had been
given, that they could go about their
legal and moral right of organization
without hindrance or interference.
Imposing on the good faith of the
Amalgamated and its leaders, the of
ficials and interlocked directorates of
these corporations secretly imposed
upon their employees a fake 'service
contract,' which violated both the
spirit and letter of their former
pledge. When confronted with this
fraudulent master and servant con
tract, the officials of the railways cor
porations said they would agree to
nothing, except to have the fraud
tested in a court of law. knowing that
to establish the fraud in a legal trial
would require two or three years, In
each of many hundreds of cases.
"The thing was a palpable trick to
drive self-respecting nu>n into revolt,
and when the revolt had come, as the
corporation interests had designed
that it should come, advantage was
then taken of their own fraud, to
issue the defiance to trades unionism,
not only in the transportation busi
ness of New York City, but in all
fields of organized labor.
"The organized labor movement of
New York City has responded to the
challenge in a way that assures vic
tory for the trades union movement of
the United States. A parade of the
men who struck at the call of Or
ganizer Fitzgerald showed approxi
mately 10,000 men in line. The strike
order, which thus completely par
alyzed the New York Railways and
Interborough's transportation, except
as professional strikebreakers could
keep it in crippled service, was ap
proved instantly by the lebor federa
tions of nation, state and city. When
the Morgan interests arrogantly re
fused to arbitrate at the call of the
Public Service Commission, all the
trades allied in any way with the
transportation business of New York
declared their purpose to stand with
their brothers of the Amalgamated.
Back of this immediate demonstration
of labor's power and right was the
explicit warning, that the whole trades
union movement of New York, em
bracing nearly one million workers,
would refuse by all means at their
command to permit the street railway
men to be bullied back into industrial
slavery.
"The immense corporation, the In
terborough, that has precipitated the
strike in New York City and put five
million people to inconvenience and
expense and in danger of fatal acci
dent, has the meanest record for
financial corruption and imposition
upon the public, which feeds it, of any
public service corporation In the
EVERETT TRADES COUNCIL.
OF ORGANIZED LABOR.
CHEAP ENCYCLOPEDIA
NON-UNION PRODUCTION j
Indianapolis, Ind.. Sept. 14, 1916.
To Organized Labor.
Greeting: Very attractive advertise
ments are appearing in the principal
j magazines of the country, offering
liberal inducements and easy terms In
in order to push the sales of the
"Handy Volume" issue of the Ency
clopedia Brltannlca. The purpose of
this letter is to call attention to the
non-union conditions under which the
work is produced.
The printing and binding of the
"Handy Volume" issue of the Ency
clopedia BrltanniCa is done by (he R.
R. Donelley & Sons Co., of Chicago,
and the J. r. Tapley Book Manufac
turing Co., of New York. Both of
these concerns have been opposed to'
the printing trades unions since the j
inauguration of the eight-hour work
day In the printing industry, and have |
been and are now operating non-union ;
establishments In .ill braches of the
printing trade.
We will appreciate it if you will
give publicity to the contents of this
letter in the columns of your interna
tional or local labor paper, and also
instruct delegates to central bodies to
report the matter to their respective
local unions.
Thanking you cordially in advance
for your compliance with these re
quests,
Fraternally yours,
A. P. SOVEY, President.
Walter X. Reddick, Secretary-Treas
urer.
whole United States. The public in
vestigation made this year by a legis
lative committe of the State of New
York, proved that the Interborough
had given away millions of dollars of
the public's money in the form of
bonuses to officials (some of whom
are now causing this strike), and in
all the other devious ways known to
immoral business. The record of
public inquiry proved that the Inter
borough had put over a contract on
the city which secured to it a guaran
tee of as good business in any year
as the corporation had had in the past
years of its existence. The inquiry
showed that the public business of
rapid transit in a city of six million
people had ben subordinated to the
private greed of profit takers, who
had assumed practically no risk in de
veloping transportation, and stood only
to make profits.
"The wages paid to the men in this j
service are less in the great majority !
of cases than every impartial author
ity declares is necessary for decent
living in the metropolis. The hours
of service violate every rule of good
social economy, of health and of per
sonal welfare. When the men, sub
jected to those completely inhuman
conditions, sought the right that
street railway workers in other cities
of this country have sought and ac
quired, the Interborough brought the
lash down upon them with a ferocity
only equal to the greed with which it
has from the beginning of its existence
robbed the people. It immediately
demanded "police protection,' though
the only violence even threatened
was the violence which the corpora
tion itself inflicted or threatened by
the employment of strikebreakers,
which have justly been described as
the lowest form of animal life ' Thou
sands of men, many of them the most.
vicious in the country, were brought
in by a notorious strike-breaking j
agency. Several hundred of the most
decent of these strikebreakers them
selves struck from their humiliating
employment. The right of the em
ployees to picket the cars and shops
of the Street Railways was denied as
jan Incident to a trick of building wire
cages around the front and rear ends
of the cars, for no other purpose than
to deceive the. jreneral public into the
belief that the men running the cars
were in danger of violence from the
strikers and their sympathizers.
"The injur?' to the public perpe
trated by the street railway corpora
tions has included the killing of four
passengers, and the serious injury of
103 other passengers These fatal ac
cidents were due to the employment
by the corporations of incompetent
I strikebreakers and 'green' and wreck
less motor-men and conductors. If
Vote and Work
AGAINST
All Referendum Measures and
the Constitutional Amendment
Referendum Measure No. 3 and Referendum Measure No. 4
render useless the Initiative, Referendum and Recall.
1. By requiring all persons both in the city and the country
districts to sign all petitions in the registration offices and before a
registration officer. t
2. Making it a gross misdemeanor for any one to solicit or
attempt to induce any one to sign a petition within 100 feet of the
entrance to a registration office.
Referendum Measure No. s—Whitney Convention Bill:
destroys the Direct Primary by
1. Restoring the caucus-primary-convention, paid for by poli
:icians, and compelling candidates whose names appear on the ballot
to swear to spport the platform made by the machine controlled
convention.
2. By eliminating independent candidates by means of a
joker."
3. Legalizing the power of the "hand picking" executive com
mittees. I
Referendum Measure No. 6—Anti-Picketing Law:
designed to destroy labor unions by
1. Making unlawful the publication of any facts concerning
any labor difficulty. Under this law it would be a crime for any
person to even carry a newspaper anywhere containing a statement
of facts about any labor trouble.
2. Preventing tre use of pickets to inform the public of the
unfair attitude of an employer.
Referendum Measure No. 7—Certificate of Public Necessity and
Convenience:
1. Prohibits any new public utility either privately or publicly
owned unless State Public Service Commission consents to it on the
grounds of public necessity or convenience.
2. Prohibits extensions of municipally owned public utilities—
water, gas, electric, steam heating plants, street railways, interurban
railways, except on consent of Public Service Commission. (Note
that telephone companies are omitted.)
Referendum No. B—Port Bill:
This meausre thwarts the effort of the people of the Seattle
Port District to develop publicly owned and operated harbor ter
minals for access to cheap water transportation to compete with the
state-owned and dominion-aided ports of San Francisco and Van
couver.
By preventing, in the interest of private dock and warehouse
owners, further improvement of the port for the benefit of producers
—of grain, fruit, lumber, fish, etc.—and of consumers of both city
and state —private profit opposed to general welfare.
By adding to the Port Commission one official elected by the
city alone and three officials elected by the county for entirely dif
ferent purposes—a denial of direct responsibility to the people in
the management of their public port utilities.
Referendum Bill No. 9—Budget Bill:
This Budget Bill prohibits the temporary use or transfer of all
idle public moneys from one fund to another and compels cities and
towns and all other municipal corporations to berrow money and
go on a warrant basis in all unforeseen cases not provided for in
the annual budget.
This bill and the Renick bill have cost the people thousands of
dollars in interest on borrowed money while they have millions lying
idle.
Senate Bill 98 permits the state to use its idle moneys, but the
foregoing biMs deny the same right to all municipal corporations.
Proposed Amendment to the Constitution—Providing a Property
Qualification for Voters:
This proposed amendment will deprive 75 per cent of the
women and 40 per cent of the men voters of the state of the right
to vote on any measure providing for the raising or expenditure of
public funds.
It is a reversion to the absurd laws of colonial days, and un
thinkable at the present time except by those privileged interests
which are attempting at all times to wrest from the people their
power.
such homicidal acts had been perpe
trated by the strikers, there could be
no question that they and their lead
ers would have been indicted for man
slaughter But processes of law and
order seem to be completely immune
from any punishment for their acts.
They even have the audacity to
threaten to use the courts and the
prosecuting machinery' to indict and
arrest labor leaders who are exercis
ing the lawful right of collective
(action for self-defense.
"Among the union organizations
that have been the quickest to come
to the support of the street railway
men are the Dock Workers and Long
shoremen. It was concerning these
workers that the present John Pierre
pont Morgan, who now has the con
trolling interest in the street railway
corporations, made his famous state
ment showing the complete indif
ference of such financiers to the
rights of workers When questioned
by Prank P Walsh, of the United
States Commission on Industrial Re
lations, whether he thought that $10
In Organization
Lies the Hope
of Labor
a week was enough ror a dock worker.
Mr. Morgan replied- 'If that Is all he
can get and he takes it. 1 guess it Is
enough."
"This industrial controversy here in
New York is still pending, in fact as
Organizer Fitzgerald has said, it is
just beginning, so far as Its final and
significant phases are concerned, but
the ultimate issue can hardly be in
question The great mass of the peo
pie of New York are in sympathy with
the strikers."
New York —Pledged to exterminate
organized labor just as they have
fought every decent and progressive
movement that ever balked their lust
(Continued on Page Three)
THIS EVENING
EVERYBODY WELCOME
LABEL LEAGUE
SOCIAL SESSION
No. 84
