he Caldwell Watc hman
OL. 30. ('OIUM1I1A. LA., FRIDAY, SEPTEMIBER 29, 19+1t;,
The po
dci licati ri
EVEP day befor
Rouge Li
meetitng i
OER WATER PLANTI
is arrangi
at ir ilian
'ORDINANCES AUTHORIZING PUR- c':itory ac
CHASE Iatoic Ito
CHASE OF ENTIRE PROPER- aton Ito
TIES OF WATERWORKS. I'te mee
the me'cti
-------ing plans
the nest
CONTRACT PRICE $800.000 naOniOnl
th'° work
Deed and Title Covering the Property ttciitorimi
Will Be Submitted to Dillon, enoval
Thompson and Clay For Their
::roundls.
Approval. .rot.
inlg pest
a cityv i
mIot ing pt
ivr. port.- with labi
Ordinances authorizing thi pur- chants ar
chase of the entire properties of ihlc ownerslui
S hlieveDQr.t . Watprwolrks -- Company, lishment
from pumping machinery to formulae, coring ra
and maps, issuing certiticates of in- the teder:
debtedness for $200,000 to pay two- accommo(
thirds of the contract price for $800,- The fo]
000 and for the construction and appointed
equipment of an entire new pumping, ensuing 3
filtering and softening plant, passed agricultur
their first reading without dissenting ment and
votes at an adjourned meeting of the chants, 1
city council. Immediately following real esta
this meeting Mayor 'Ford and Com- real estat
missioner Ward ..will go to New York
to close the dltransferring the wa- What t
ter company j iperfy to the city. largest e
The deed and title covering the prop-, Arkansas
erty will be submitted to Dillon, athletics
-Thompson and Clay for their: ap- gle betwe
proval. versity "I
Ai the adoption of the two orrli- Universit:
nances will be' within the specifies played at
time limit, they will pe kept on the Shrevepol
in the office of T. H. Thurmond, city is schedu
auditor, for 'the seven days required vember 4
by law and are open for .inspection ready tra
;by any one Interested. preme str
ball team
'BRIEF NEWS AND NOTES. has play(
New Orleans still is doing business Christian
in the way of helping to feed the oig Universit}
litmy called out a uttAe
recent sta
the district quartdrmaster stationed certificate
here, has charge of supplying the mil- of results
itary camps ia -Alabama, Mississippi chairman
and Louisiana. 'There are still a num- Board at
her of troops. at Camp. Stafford, near persons a
Alexandria, and ' 7,000 rations were 576 paersonst
sent there only the other day. Most 76 passed.
of those came from this city. The for the d
troops in the other states have never negroes
left their caimps,: and are being fell failures
their "three p'r day" regularly. New white,
Orleans has bifi upon the contracts
and got her share in competition with Secret
the home markets. dered bt
the balls
Colonel W. T. Stevens. of Jennings, theion in
engineer for the halt million dollar tors nol
road to be built in Jefferson Davis state nt
parish, -W.illiam Raymond, Colonel ly tatennc
Stevens' chief engineer, George Hatli not, be(
away, police jiror of Ward Two, vie- the . Re
ited Mermelttai to inspect the loca- cent oe
tion of the ..proposed bridge over the cn ol
Mermentau river. The location of 1912.o ]
the bridge as appioved by Mr. Atkins conside
will be two hundred and thirty-five
feet north of the Southern Pacific rail
road bridge. This is said to le the Atte a
most desirable location and would M ittee
elinqinate two railroad crossings as
the present public road carries at fact t'
this time in addition to 5hortenifg the the Cl
route from a quarter to a half mile as the
tary
'I'he Ouachita Natural Gas and Oil banr
Company, which has a franchise Io be su
Niriab gas in Monroe, will begin
drilling for gas and oil on one of their
ma'~Y lepses within the next few T
days;' Suffclent pipe is here for the
irst well, and that the rig has been age I
shipped from ShreVeport.' . S. Hun- CAm
h ll
ter, member of the company, has ru- Chag
lre
turned from the East, where he com- ing 1
pleted arrangements for piping for Ber
the gas mains to be laid in Monroe. spac
tory
LouiK.Ylallon of White Castle, 8- tioni
yea-old son of P. L. Viallon, may lose
th' sight of Ln eye as the result of an Al
attempted joke on the part of a plai- poli
mate. Mistaking some lime for four brid
oe of Viallon's young friends threw twe
oahanaful into the lad's face, some wa
iodging in the eye. He is now under ens
of a physician. pla
- the - per
MaflaWk Shackford of the Lafay- fed
ettet ~rs %air is fast getting the
groueds anbuildings in shape for 1
the eightha ,LjiI fair fixed for Octo- Sh
her 124g5- The site Ip within tle cor- Gr
pb1ier Aii2tS 'of' LJifayetta O near the on
railtvOa4 statilo. mI
Indication5 are that the special tax lot
.edctionbeldat Lake Charles in which Im
Seiour-nUill school tax, was voted for a ze
period of ten years, will be contested
by interested parties a
a
ThO electric illumin8tlon of the t~
grt wie w of Crowley is to be a
ontipwuede by 8n appropriation from a
tiaieuPolce jurY' by a complete circle s
at the court rquare. -
The port of Baton Houjo' will om
dedlicated formallylv Octobe'or 17, the'
day before the opening of 'l! Baton
Rouge Live Stock and A;:.,I2uurtal
Fair. The date was decid"d at a
!meeting of the executive coi.ttiltr'n
of the ('hamber of ('otiniirci, wh it
is arranging for the celebratioiti Sen
ator Itansdell will delive t'ill diei i
cattor' addtress. lie is comning to
IRaton IRouge to attend the fair.
l'ri'<ident L I '. . ta laii nrrsid'd a
the nimeeting and outli I 'd the Vl)t':
ing plans of the coninir Oal holy for
1he next fiscal year. Ilis plani w Ie r
) una:ii nusl\' indorsed. An 0u line i t
tl!e work which the chaito' r will try
to acc'ompjli h follows: ýt in:n '
auditoriui or conyen no ' MI!i
removal of the pe a n;ary I ii
i"'i
wivthin iii. 1 it# , mitte m 't'p s k n. l h
I' port whalirves, a niw eourthl
a city library, and (ii hI.1 , pr t
mlotitug port advant umi, to flt) t 1) 0n -t
witth lahor, phutronviing I Ott in
Schants and mianut'acturers. iui:t.ti 4
ownership of puiblic. ttitiit ije, ed a
liolishment of a live stocl: market, o '
curing railroad shops. enlargenain t oi
- the Iederal building, better passeng ir
accommodations out of Bnton Rouce. On
The following commit tees will no slc.iall
Sappointed by the president for the ono of
ensuing year: Legislative, publicity,
agricultural, live stock, civic imiprove
ment and public utility, retail mer
Schants, railroads, parish auxiliary, ROU
Sreal estate, good roads, industrial.
real estate and entertainment.
What has proven to be one of thi
largest events in college history in FIGHTI
Arkansas and Louisiana, especially n : ENIGI
athletics is the annual football stru't- 3'
' gle between the Arkansas State Uni
versity "Razor Backs," and the State
University of Louisiana "Tigers,'
Splayed at the Louisiana State Fair at Buch
Shreveport every autumn. The game report
Sis scheduled for the afternoon of No- Ofice a
vember 4, and both colleges are .1- have g
Sready training their men for this su- Germas
preme struggle. Arkansas has a foot- Provinc
ball team of enviable reputation and was in
has played such strong elevens at miles a
Christian College and Washington voda ri
University of St. Louis.
'ý'cerfitlcftte» &at toO4 the pom
recent state ezamilaatlons qualified for Somme,
certificates, according to the tables hld at
of results compiled by John R. Coniff, War 0
chairman of the State Examining quently
r Board at Baton Rouge. Of 1,385 white The"Nor
e persons who stood the examinations, n f
t 576 passel, and of 416 negroes 160 man c
, passed. The per centage of failures Hilt 76
for the whites was n7.21 and for the Clery 1
,r negroes 61.26. The percentage 'f vance
failures for all applicants, black and fire ar
I , guns.
ts white, was 58.42. to rea
th sectiot
Secretary of State Bailey was or- scertail
dered" by a court decision to place on cere
the ballot in the next November elee- iteuene
L'' tion in Louisiana the names of elec- vigoro
tors nominated by the Republican or
vis 'r aie recent- our it,
nel state. convention. Mr. Bailey recent "
stlr- ly announced that the names would ed at
is- not, be placed on the ballot because Bouch
- the Republicans failed to cast 10 per "In
thea- cent of the total vote polled in the ISoutn
th 1912, elction and therefore was not aS a
i considered a political partt under the tacks
fve state law. minoi
rail- 'tailur
the At a meeting of the eecutive com-i
ould mittee of the Orleans Levee Board,
o ld Mr. Fayssoux called attention to the P
at fact that the securitysl deposited in, sol
t the City Bank to cove the depos~t gouit
the board are not all state securities, bulim
as the law contemplates. Thesecrt- of
i Oil k e unstructt tto tecuorti1 agal
'e to be substituted for those not contem- mali
begin plated by the Loalsiana law. datch
their
few The plant of the Brooklyn Cooper
r the age Company, on the grounds of the
bee Amercan Sugar Relnng Company,
Hun- Chalmette, will be considerably en- Ptc
as r, larged so as to provide for increas- In
com- ing business. Bourg & Serpas, of St. tent
g for Bernard, contractors, are filling in the th
Lroe. space with cinders and sand, preparw'Vo C
tory to the erection of the fouind
tle, 8- tions for the new building.
iy lose - eewark
t of an At a regular meeting of the ArObaby, a
a pla?- police )ury the subject of a roq6e medic,
r four bridge over the Mermentau ri,%ersity, sih
threw tweet thts and Jefferson p ano, a 13.
some was taken up, and Colonel W.,! and three
under ens was authorized to pre were pilfe
plans and specifications. ' chard.
pense of building is to bt
Lafay- federal funds. - WaCarra
ugthe - ang
ape ore The National Farm eiir sa troot s
3r Octo- Showl whi~ch to beY -~eC- iate, on McI
e cor- Grounds, November 1 es was reportn
ear the one of the main e arm ce1ved here
tion with the figh was e to have inr
making for one of t citi- the soldiers
lelal tax loan banks. The
in which made at a meetL
:ed for a zens at the St. killed Lh
ontested her and Bernstorff i
Ptomaine a9s only partment thl
a family of t of the ment would
of, the two-year'otd eans phy- any loan to I
ha to be, after a vig Hospital United State
iion from Istomach f Dancy of tha
ete circle siciatnst
that the
FRENCH USE MONSTER AMERICAN RIFLE
4 +
rye. ;..
Una ftegetgn now being urged by the French 4)1 the~ Soinine front. This gigantic rifle Is mounted on a
sTferinhiy constructed gun caisson, which rests on steel trucks and is easily moved from point to4 point. The gun i
onet of the many made in America Bnj 5lhipped1 to Europe for use against the Teuton powers.
rov e
mry ROUMANIANS CLAIM
tril. jGAIN IN DOBRUDJA
f th
'y in FIGHTING WAS IN REGION OF
ly 7n ENIGEA, 19 MILES SOUTH CON.
ru STANZA TZERNAVODA
tini- RAILWAY.
State
Oir at Bucharest, Roumania.-The official I
game report issued by the Routnanian Wars
f No- Office announces that the RoumaniaLns
'e '- have gained a success against the
S su- German and Bulgarian troops in the
foot- Province of Dobrudja. The fighttqg
and was in the region of Enigea, 1,9
Sat miles south of the Constanza-Tzern&
igton voda railway.
d for Somme. The Germans gained a f
bles held at some advanced points, t
oniff, War Office announced, but su
ining quently were ejected. r
white The text follows:
tion, "North of the River Somme Or- t
160 man forces attacked our positionEst
ilures Hilt 76 along a line running from he U
r the Cler! Road to the Somme. Theirul
:e r vance was broken by our cuttaindf g
kad fire and by the fire of our macne
guns. The enemy found it imposslO
to reach our lines on the nortl t
as or- section, while on the southern it '
ace r- certain German detachments wah tc
ree on - secured a footing in our advance9o. m
r ele·- sitions were at once driven out a r
bl ceal vigorous counter-attack delivBrecI'Y h
recent- our troops.
ewould Artillery fighting of a fairly 91t
would ed nature is going on in the sec' of
ipe Boucharesnes.
n10 per "In the Champagne distBict, et of cr
as not Soutan Hill, as well as I)the yges, co
Sth at a point northwest of 4tkiro, at- TE
er the tacks on the part of the enet on th
minor French 'Os* resulte in de
failure. an
ye com· fl-- e
Board, School Dynamited. ml
to the Poplarville iss.-The Loyal nm
pited in oplidated S vlj1, a two-story bk bu
posit solidated Sjartly wrecked byy- cr
curities, abuilding, wlarge barn, the propry
it secre- was burned. Grievme Gr"
to the of the scrchool is believed to he Ati
ecuriti s against e vandals. The Lal the
contem- inspire, e of the largest conul- nal
schoo ols in the state. gol
date(4________a
d Cooper- kc a Wheat Embargo.
Is of the Mo.-An embargo on the r stn
'ompany, A of wheat until the supg ern
rably en- Ptceed the home consumption cY
increas- tin a resolution addressed 1poll
fas, of st. lent Wilson, adopted at a mee sha
ing in the the Chicago Woman's Assocle me
,prepar'Vof Commerce. not
e found - ------- cer
Botanit Shoots Boy. tem
4ewark, N. J.-Dr. Henry Hurt die.
ie AraSoby, a noted botanist and dean r o:
a roqe medical faculty of Columbia Ini thol
i ritersity, shot and wounded Alfred Fa and
poano, a l3-year-old boy, here. Fasano land
W Stand three other boys, Dr. Rusby saidevee
werre pilfering peaches from his or. men
Schardthe
-------- med
Carranza Troops Attacked. of ii
t Washington.--An attack on Carran.
r a troejis in or near Tampico by a
e force under a bandit chief named Pa
laez, on Me~xican Independence day, Rusi
Swas reported In official dispatches re- cord
ceived here. The bandits were said T ile
to have inflicted heavy lOSses upon tobe.
the soldiers before being repulsed, wa
000
Loan To Belgium. be 0
eashingfton Am. bassador von
Bernstorn informed the State De
partment that the German e Ne
ment would consider null and void N
any loan to Belgium negotiated n teid have
United States during German occt i
Pancy of that country - paper
whici
DJA!IAKES OFER TO
ENTENTEPOVERSv
,ON
PROPOSALS ARE ACCEPTED
WILL MEAN ENTRY OF GREECE
INTO WAR.
ificial
Was
t the ILL REORGANIZE CABINET
Sthe
,htiqg
19 thens Hears That Part of Crew of
zerna- Cruiser Avaroff Have Mutinied
Venizelos Says Greece Must Act
eardless of Government.
on the best ant
tu - elegraphed definite proposals to the
entente capitals which, it accepted,
will mean Greece's entry into the war.
SIf the uncertainty of the relations be
)DEft tween Greece and the entente contin.
m he ues, it is regarded as not improbable
eirl that Greece may declare war on Bul
unet garia on her own account.
acRe Semi-official efforts of the cabinet
msole to ascertain from the entente minis
rtfm ters here a statements have been
a elf fruitless. The ministers were given
wA to understand that as many as three
,e o- members of the Greek cabinet were
t a ready to resign if the entente wished.
,ty The sole reply was that Instructions 0
had not been received.
-it- l
of London.-Athens is filled with Ir a
mors that 300 men of the crew of the
t of cruiser Averoff have mutinied, ac
ges, cording to a dispatch to the Exchange
at-. Telegraph Company. The report says
on that the remainder of the crew and
in detachments of marines were sent
away in boats. Other ships of the "
fleet are said to have quelled the in
mutiny. T.
. The Averoff is an armored cruiser re
bk built In March, 1910. She carries a
yy- crew of 550 men. In
Piy Former Premier Venizelos of 1
rae Greece, in an interview cabled from t
he Athens to the Petit Journal, declares P
Sthat the Greeks must defend their
Ia. national interests regardless of the
government. M. Venizelos is quoted
as saying: pr
"Although Roumania entered the W
struggle, the court party which gov- tic
erns us seems to persist in the poll- ch
n cy of what it calls neutrality. This tra
policy is persisted in even after the da:
ee shameful Kavala Incident You ask ott
ýci, me what the future will bring. I am sa
not In the position to answer, but wh
certainly something must be at
tempted if Greece does not wish to
die.
"What was done at Saloniki, tw(
ni (though improvised and precipitate, roo
. and recent manifestations in the Is- Pos
no lands of the archipelago, show that Jud
d, everyone realizes that if the govern- bee
r- ment has forgotten is duty toward cez
the nation the nation must itself im. pos
mediately take in hand the defense
of its own Interests."
n. B
a New Russian Loan. usec
a- London.-A new war loan by the pani
Y, Russian government is proposed, ac- ipn
e- cording to a dispatch from Petrograd. Mar
d The plan is to issue at the end of Oc- crir
n tober a new internal 5 1-2 per cent istwo
war loan to the amount of 3.000,000,
000 roubles, the price of issue to
be 95.
avia
Paper From Cane Stalks. fligh
New Iberia, La.-Arrangements than
have been completed for the construc- fair
tion here of a factory to manufacture kille
paper from sugar cane stalks from built
which the juice has been ground
PART OF CARRANZA
GARRISON DESERIED
SVILLA LEFT CHIHUAHUA JOINED
BY 1,000 OR MORE ADDI
TIONAL MEN.
ED
:E
Washington.-The most detailed
accounts yet received of the fighting
at Chihuahua City when Villa cele
ET brated the Mexican Independence day
by a successful assault on the Car
ranza garrison, reached the War De
partment from Brig.-Gen. Gee. Bell,
Sof
commanding the El Paso military dis
trict. It asserts that Villa personally
led the attacking forces; that he took
and held numerous and important
buildings in the city for several
hours; that he was joined by a thou
the rr son an ret , 5 M 'o
ted turn soon, and taking with him a
vate large quantity of captured arms, am
b munition and artillery.
be- Gen. Bell's dispatch does not show
tin- Gn elsdsac osntso
ble the source of his information and
jul- many officials believe his account of
the incident was founded on rumors
nat reaching the border as were various
als- stories which have been transmitted
fel by State Department agents. They
e were Inclined to believe for that rea
ee son that the full truth of what trans. 1
e pired is not yet known.
pd. Reports so far received are similar a
na only in that they show a fight did oc
cur on September 16 and that the Vil- I
la followers took the penitentiary b
and some other buildings. They all
he conflict, as to the part Villa played, ,
e- not even agreeing that he wasg
present
is
id Lowest Death Rate Ever.
at Washington.-The lowest death b
ie rate in the country's history is shown C
in the preliminary statistics for 1915. C
The rate, 13.5 per 1,000, is based on I a
, reports from 25 states and 41 cities
awith a total population of 67,000,000. d
In 1914 the percentage of deaths was 2
,f 13.6, the lowest recorded up to that t
time. The average rate during the
s period 1901-1905 was 16.2.
It
e To Receive Arkansans.
d Washington.-Edgar B. Merritt,
president of the Arkansas Society ofo
e Washington, received a communica- iil
r. tion from William B. Polsom, in m
i. charge of the "Arkansas-on-Wheels" n
s train, giving October 23 and 24 as the
B days scheduled for Washington and m
r other data for use of former Arkan- Cr
Ssans arranging to entertain the party
Swhile in this city. go
SDraws One Cent Fine.
Chicago.-A fine of one cent and a
two-minute imprisonment in a court- o
room chair was the punishment im- ty,
posed on Michael Levin by Federal ele
Judge Landis. Levin, aged 20, had wo
been found guilty of falsifying con- Ne
cerning his age to obtain a postofice Se1
position.
Woman Is Beheaded.
Berlln.-The headsman's axe was all3
used here in the execution of Johan- reg
na Ullman, one of the two particl* 5trT
pants in a shocking murder here last the
March. Her female accomplice in the the
crime, in which a girl friend of the pine
two was choked, robbed and cut up,ex
is awaiting beheading. kno
Flyer Drops To Death.
Shawnee, Okla.-M. G. Roberts, an H
aviator, while giving an exhibition at a
flight in an aeroplane before more f enal
than 2,000 spectators at the county a. t
fair here, fell 1,500 feet and was Nov
killed. The machine had been ie- 5100
built and it is believed defective me of t
chmnlsm caused we accident. Iweri
RUSSIAN TROOPS ON
MRCEDONIAN FRONT
CAPTURE OF HILL WEST OF
FLORINA, WHICH HAD BEEN
STRONGLY FORTIFIED.
COUNTER ATTACK CHECKED
French Artillery Caused an Outbrcak
of Flames in Doiran, and French
Trcops Made Prog'ess cn
Their Left Wing.
Paris. Rlu:ian Iroops (In t " wist
ern end of the Malc donuia fr.n t took
the (illensive. The w'ar lh anounc
ied that they had captured I11 916,
west of F'lorina, which had lit fur
titled strongly by the BIulgariat. A
Bulgarian counter attack was check
nia ed by French and Russian artillery
and bayonets.
French artillery fire caused an out
break of flames in Doiran, and French
troops made progress on their left
wing. On the Broda River Servian
' troops reached the frontier and
DFrench infantry made a slight ad
vance to the north of Florida.
The announcement concerning the
NED Macedonian front reads as follows:
"On the left bank of the River
Strunaa British troops, continuing
their raids, were successful In an at
tack upon Jammah, to the north of
ailed Lake Tahinos. A detachment of
tting French troops operating on the right
cele- of the British took a trench at the
p day point of the bayonet and made some
Car- prisoners.
r De- I "From Dolran to the Vardar our ar
Bell, tillery has displayed great activity.
y dis- An energetic bombardment of Dolran
inally res ulted in causing a fire in the town.
took "On on rleft wing progress was
,rat(In
)rtant continued along the entire line. In
verni the region of the Brodna river Ser
thou- vian troops have reached the fron
rad and
o r9- no Prench
m a Infantrymen have occupied the first
,am- house of Petorak, as a result of a
spirited fight, and they also have
show made a slight advajLe to the north
and of Florina. W
it of j "To the west of this town Russian
nors troops captured by assault Hill 916,
rious which had been strongly organized by
itted the enemy. In this same locality a
'hey Bulgarian counter attack was check
rea- ed by the fire of our artillery, and
ans- then repulsed at the point of the bay
onet by French and Russian troops
flar acting together.
oc- "To the southwest of Florina a
Vii- French reconnoitering detashment
Lary has had several spirited engagements
all in the country south of Preeba Lake,
fred, with Bulgarian detachments from
was Blklista."
I An Another Embargo Appeal.
New York.-President Wilson will
wth be asked to call a special session ot
iWn Congress to declare an embargo upon
oIn the exportation of wheat and feder.al
ole and state investigation of the iw
l00 crease in the price of flour will be
rademanded by resolution adopted by
wat 200 bakers of Brooklyn. It is saji
the that flour would be sold at $14 a bas
e ret and bread at 20 cents a loaf next
spring unless an embargo is imposed.
itt, Relief To Reach Syria.
of New York.-Secretary of State Lan
- asing has informed the American Com
la mittee for Armenian and Syrian re
l" Ifef in this city that food supplies
he for starving Armenians and Syrians
nd may be distribiyted through the Red
Crescent and the Red Cross at Beirut,
ty Syria, by permission of the TurklslL
government.
Women Fight Wilson.
a Reno, Nev.-Miss Anne Martin, na
tional chairman of the Woman's par.
,. ty, arrived to remain until after the
al election in November. She says the
d woman's party is ditermined to carry
n. Nevada against President Wilson and
e Senator Pittman.
Great Britain Apologizes.
Washington.-ureat Britain form
g ally exprpssed to the United States
. regret for the action of a British de
s stroyer in holding up and examining
the Philippine steamer Cebu within
the territorial waters of the l'hillp.
pines. Because of a heavy fog. it was
explaned, the commander did not
know the vessel was so hear shore.
Connecticut Guards to Vote.
Hartford, Conn.-The Legislature
at a special session passed an act
enabling the Connecticut gyardsmpn
a. the Mexican border to vote at the
November election and appropriate.
$100,000 for the rellef or dependents
of the soldiers. No other matters
'were considered.
