1'
Mfwiimgtei
VOL. 43
FARMINGTON, ST. FRANCOIS COUNTY, MISSOURI, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1916.
NO. 38
GLEANINGS FROM THE A BIG TENT AND A BIG
FARMINGTON PAGEANT OaY AT FLAT RIVER
Lyceum Course
(Redpath Talent)
At The
M o n a rch
SEASON 1916-17
5 Numbers
NO. 1. MT. VERNON SINGING PARTY
NO. 2. JESS PUGH CO.
NO. 3. MUSICAL ENTERTAINERS
NO. 4. C. C. MITCHELL
NO. 5. THE MUSICAL GUARDSMEN
Reserved Season Tickets, - $2.00
Tickets may be bought and seats reserved now, during the
day at Karsch's Shoe Store and at night at the
Monarch Box Office.
First Number Monday, Oct 23rd
Be sure and get Tickets now
Making Good
Parkhurst Sleeth is making good
as Chairman of the County Democrat
ic Committee. He is full of energy,
push and enthusiasm in the work. To
him is largely due the securing of the
speakers and the big tent meeting
at Flat River this week. He person
ally visited State Democratic Head
quarters, suggested what was nec
essary, arranged plans, provided for
the erection of the tent and accommo
dations for the speakers, and as a
consequence everything was carried
out in decency and order. Parkhurst
is a live wire and he purposes whoop
ing up the campaign until the close of
the polls on November 7th. Demo
crats, put your shoulders to the
wheel and help, him.
PASSES 86th BIRTHDAY
On Wednesday, September 20th,
Rev, J. H. Denman passed the eighty
sixth anniversary of his birthday in
a quiet, contented way at his home
in Farmington. This venerable ser
vant of God was licensed to preach at
the age of eighteen years by the
Rock River Conference of the Meth
odist Episcopal Church. For a num
ber of years he "broke the bread of
life" at Rock Island, 111., and other
stations of that circuit. At the close
of the Civil War he was sent to South
east Missouri to preach and organize
churches of the Methodist faith, and
he organized what is now known as
the First Methodist Episcopal Church
of Farmington. The congregation
was organized at the old Carleton
Seminary at Cedar Falls in this coun
ty. 1
Mr. Denman was a widower when
he came to Southeast Missouri, and
in 186fi he married Miss Sarah King
of Bollinger county. Shortly after
his marriage he settled down on a
farm in Bollinger county, but contin
ued to preach and organize churches
in Bollinger, Madison and Cape Gi
rardeau counties. This year he and
the faithful partner of his life and
ministry celebrated in a quiet and
home-like way their golden wedding.
Mr. and Mrs. Denman removed to
Farmington about eight years ago,
when he retired from active minis
terial labors, and where they have en
joyed the peaceful, contented closing
years of lives well spent. Like the
sweet psalmist of Israel, he may say,
"I was young and now am old, yet
have I not seen the righteous for
saken nor his seed begging bread."
May the years that shall still be ac
corded them overflow with the joy
of that faith which is the substance
of things hoped for, the evidence of
things not seen.
WOULD LAMM ADVOCATE IT?
Editor Times:
In reading accounts of Judge
Lamm's campaign speech I fail to
observe where his judicial mind has
offered any solution to the vexing sit
uation of lack of revenue to meet ap
propriations for each bi-ennial period,
for the support of our State institu
tions. It was so during the Hadley admin
istration, as well as during that of
Folk and Major. The Judge should
enlighten the voters as to how he
would avoid a deficit and at the same
time meet the demands on the State
Treasury.
There is a way but would he advo
cate it? A VOTER.
Another cold wave is here.
Piano Tuning
R. W. VORHEES of St. Louis is
in town tuning pianos. A card
dropped at the Farmington
Post Office will receive prompt
attention or phone 334.
PUBLIC SCHOOL NOTES
On Monday morning Rev. Clarence
Tucker, a missionary from Brazil,
South America, and a brother of R.
C. Tucker, conducted devotional ex
ercises in the High School building,
iind delivered a very entertaining ad
dress on conditions in Brazil. H'i
coming was much enjoyed by pupiU
and teachers.
Glenwood Baker and Burdctte
Johns, St. Francois county representa
tives in the Boys' State Fair School
at Sedalia, report interesting times.
Judge E. E. Swink met the boys at
the depot and conducted them to the
fair grounds in one of the official cars,
and advised them to report to him in
case they needed anything or got in
to trouble. His kindness and atten
tions made them feel very much at
home.
Representatives of the different
high schools of the county met in the
High School building at Flat River
on last Saturday and re-organized the
St. Francois County Athletic and Or
atorical A.ssociatiaaJMy)''" tnc
name of the assoWfiWfc the Ath
letic and Oratorical Association b.'
the Lead Belt. This change in name
was made in order that some of the
adjacent schools outside of St. Fran
cois county may participate in the
activities of the association and not
feel included in St. Francois county.
At the same meeting a fall schedule
of girls' basket ball games was ar
ranged, details of which will be giv
en at a later date. The first game of
the season in which Farmington will
participate will be on Saturday, Oct.
7th, with Esther High School in that
city. The Farmington girls began
practice this week and an enthusias
tic group reported for work.
The first football game of the sea
son will be played in Farmington on
Saturday next, September 30th, with
Flat River. Flat River High has a
lucky bunch under the coaching of
Prof. Brucher, and a good team is as
cured. That team got enough real
experience last year to wear off the
new, and can be expected to grVe a
good account of themselves. The
Farmington boys are rounding into a
good machine under the coaching of
Prin. J. S. Dearmont, who has an en
viable reputation as an athletic di
rector. Lovers of grid iron sport will
be treated to the real process on Sat
urday, and a great crowd should be
in attendance to help the boys get
started and win a decisive victory.
Watch for the ticket tags and wear
one.
LYCEUM COURSE SE
CURED FOR FARMINGTON
Farmington is to have a Lyceum
Course this winter, the Monarch Thea
tre having contracted for five splen
did numbers to be given during the
winter at intervals of about a month.
The fn'St number, The Mouht Vernon
Singing Party, comes on Tuesday
night, Oct. 23d. This company is
composed of five people, and is one
of the big numbers of the course. As
their name implies, this is an ideal
singing company, and they conclude
their program wtth an operetta, in
costume.
Next comes the Jess Pugh Com
pany, an excellent offering, followed
by the Musical Entertainers, whose
reputation is that they never have
failed to please and satisfy an audi
ence. C. C. Mitchell, "The Bombshell
in a Nutshell Man," is the fourth num
ber on the course and he satisfies al
so. The best number, The Musical
Guardsmen, six strong, a singing or
chestra, has been saved for the last
and we do not hesitate to say that
this is as good a number as has ever
appeared in Farmington. Their pro
gram will be indeed a rare treat.
The price of season tickets is $2,'
and seats may be reserved now. Fur-i
ther information may be had of the
management of the Monarch Theatre. I
The Phillips Restaurant was this
week removed to the Taaffe building,
north side of the Public Sauare, which
has been fitted up in excellent shape.
With large rooms and better facili
ties this up-to-date restaurant is in
better shape than ever to accomrao
u.i.u Its customers.
A Few Thoughts From the Rich Spec
tacle Which Presented So Much of
Historical Value
The Times has previously treated
of the Farmington Pageant, recently
produced in this city in such a splen
did manner, from different view
point:;. It now occurs to us that the
presentation of a few thoughts
brought out by such presentation, will
be most timely and may result in in
estimable good to this community, by
calling attention to the great possi
bilities which that remarkable enter
prise has shown this community is
deserving of.
In the first place, the Pageant dem
onstrated, beyond peradventure, that
this community is capable of present
ing, and carrying to successful con
clusion, enterprises of unusual merit.
There is not only the talent, but like-1
wise the will with proper concentra-:
tion to carry to successful conclu
sion enterprises of the highest possi
ble conception, with honor and credit i
to our people.
It has also pointed the way to an '
annual celebration of such character j
that must mean the placing of Farm- j
ington and St. Francois county in the,
spot-light, and attract much that is j
best in high-class citizenship to this
community, as it will mean an endless I
chain of advertising that will cause j
thousands from distant points to see
and recognize the many attractive!
features of Farmington as a home
city. t
An annual spectacle, along such
lines as were so successfully carried!
out in the recent Pageant, will not
only give valuable experience to the
most unusual number of musical stu-1
dents to be found in this community,
but serve to draw the best possible
class of families here, who may be
looking for similar advantages, in
this way building up the community on
the most solid base possible.
Such reflections again lead us to
the thought of the very great need of
Untold Riches I
In Prospect
George K. Williams returned home I
Tuesday from an inspection of the i
mining properties, in which he is very
largely interested, in the Miami, Okla.,
field. He is so completely overflow- j
ing with the glittering prospects for,
great wealth there that it is impos-'
sible for one to hear him and remain'
unconvinced that he and A. 0. Nich- j
ols, his partner in this venture, havei
indeed "strucH it rich in that field
which is being rapidly developed into
one of the richest fields of lead and
zinc that has ever been tapped.
But, to substantiate his story of
the wonderful richness of the produc
tion from their mines there, Mr. Wil
liams brought with him specimens
from each of the two shafts they have
just put down on their property, an
inspection of which shows that noth
ing could be richer in lead and zinc
development, in that or any other
field. Then, to hear George K. tell of
the immense deposits of just such
mineral that is already in sight makes
it impossible for one to sit still.
Messrs. Williams and Nichols own
two pieces of what seems to be among
the richest holdings in that field, and
have already one shaft sunk on each
claim. One shaft is 106 feet and the
other 194 feet in depth, and each hole
shows up similar ledges of the richest
kind of ore. They already have ma
terial for, two mills on the ground,
and work of erection will be pushed
with all possible speed.
Both these gentlemen are well
known in this community as expert
mining operators. Their reputation
for reliability and truthfulness can
not be questioned; hence their, repre
sentations carry with them conviction
of their truthfulness. The excite
ment here has reached almost fever
heat in the Miami mineral fields,
where quite a number of Farmington
citizens, it seems, are holdin" -w-of
the richest claims. Mr. Nichols
has taken up his residence there, in
order to keep in constant personal
touch with the progress of the work.
Coming This Way
We are reliably Informed that the
National Iead Company has taken
the Pirn property, a large a'oa of val
uable mineral land lying this side of
Elvins. This is a valuable property
and the companies have for some time
been trying to get possession of it.
The companies' holdings are gradu
ally drifting towards Farmington.
ANOTHER BARN STRUCK BY
LIGHTNING AND BURNED
The big new barn of J. T. Claywell's
fatm just south of State Hospital No.
4 was struck by lightning Wednesday
night, set on fire and comnletely de
stroyed, together with about 20 tons
of hay and all the farm machinery
stored in the barn. Several horses
in the barn were gotten out. There
ns insurance of $500 on the barn and
contents, but the loss far exceeds that
amount. Mr. Claywell had just re
moved his family that day out to the
farm from their Farmington resi-
a city park, where all such improve
ments as were necessary in prepar
ing a stage for the Pageant, arrang
ing and construction of seats, etc.,
which necessitated considerable ex
pense, may be made permanent. In
such a park, which should be conven
iently located and close in, could be
built a permanent auditorium, which
would be always ready, in all kinds of
weather, for just such renditions as
was the Pageant.
Then, too, whatever the perform
ance might be, its consummation
would not be left to the mercy of the
weather conditions. The expenses en
tailed in ground preparation for the
recent Pageant, multiplied by three or
four, would be sufficient to erect a
splendid permanent auditorium, which
could be constantly improved and add
ed to as necessity required, and that
would be a positive asset to the city.
All snch expense in the late Pageant
fl complete monetary loss to the
promoters.
With such an auditorium, with seat
ing capacity for every probable need,
Farmington would then be in the most
unusual and advantageous position to
attract State, district and county
meetings, of various kinds. In fact,
she would then, perhaps, soon find
herself in the van-guard as a con
vention city. Would that not be a
consummation devoutly to be sought?
AndBll this splendid result could be
accomplished, not only to the ultimnte
saving of this community, but to its
permanent splendid profit, as well.
Is it worth while, think you? We
would, be glad to hear from any one
who may feel interested in this mat
ter, either privately or for publication.
The time is now here for Farming
ton to arouse herself and to go after
those things that must result in her
growth and ultimate profit. Will you
help us break the shackles?
Mr. Hensley Speaks
Here Monday Night
Hoiii. Walter L. Hensley, Democrat
ic candidate for re-election to Con
gress, will speak at the Court House
in Farmington next Monday evening,
October 2 at 7:30 o'clock, under the
auspices of the Wilson-Gardner Club.
Everybody is cordially invited, and a
special invitation is extended to the
ladies.
It has been Mr. Hensley's fortune
to have served in Congress during the
most constructive period of legisln
tion in the history of our country, a
period, too, that has been fraught
with some of the most momentous,
grave and critical problems, growing
out of the European War, that our na
tion has ever had to deal with. He
has not only taken part in this his-torv-makine
epoch, but he has given
the questions arising from time t(f1
time earnest and careful thought and
study. He comes back to the district
to give-an account of his stewardship
as the people's servant, and to ask
their indorsement and approval of
his conduct, fresh from the scene of
his labors, and the message he brings
will prove interesting and informing.
Mr. Hensley is of that energetic
and nervous temperament that enters
enthusiastically into any work that he
has in hand, and while his work in
Congress has not always been in the
spot light, it has been of the nature
that has gained for him tne respect
and good opinion of those with whom
he has labored. Senator Reed, in his
speech at Flat River last Monday
night, speaking in the most eulogistic
terms of Mr. Hensley, gave a single
instance of his watchfulness and clear
insight into matters of legislation.
As the Federal Reserve Act passed
the House it contained a clause that
admitted of the old interlocking di
rectorate which enables a coterie of
a few men to cont rol whole systems of
corporations. Mr. Hensley noting
this (law and not being able to have
it amended out of the act before it
was sent to the Senate, marked that
and other features of the bill which
he deemed objectionable, and went
with it to Senator Reed. The Senator
promised Mr. Hensley that he would
tool into the matter, which he did,
consulting with the latter frequently,
and after giving the subject careful
study found that Mr. Hensley was
right. Senator Reed then went to
work and succeeded in having the in
terlocking directorate feature of the
bill eliminated. This is not Mr. Hens
ley's story, but Senator Reed's. And
Secretary of the Treasury McAdoo
said if that feature had been left in
the bill it would have greatly weak
ened the soundness and usefulness of
that splendid financial measure the
Federal Reserve law.
Come out Monday night, October
2nd, and hear Mr. Hensley.
Wm. J. Anderson brought to the
office Tuesday a half-dozen choice,
large-sized, smooth Irish p"tat cs
which he raised on the old Murphy
farm. Billy says he only had two
acres planted this year, for which he
expects to get $1.75 a bushel, but
that next year he is going to put in
a big crop, as thffe is certainly money
;r raisins potato.
Thousands of Voter Hear the Convinc
ing Presentation of Facts and Fig
ures at Monday's Meetings
Monday was indeed a great day in
St. Francois county, principally ow
ing to the fact of the big Democratic
tent meetings at Flat River that af
ternoon and evening. These meet
ings are pronounced by old-timers,
who have for many years been follow
ing the political trail, as being the
most enthusiastic held in this county
for many years. But the night meet
ing was a record breaker, in the en
tire history of the county, both in re
gard to numbers as well as to the
splendid amount of enthusiasm
aroused. Never before, say the "old
timers," was such a large and en
thusiastic meeting ever held in this
county.
Senator James A. Reed was the
principal speaker in the evening, and
for more than two hours he held the
great gathering, estimated at from
4,000 to 6,000, in breathless attention,
frequently arousing them to enthusi
astic and prolonged cheering, which
testified, more clearly than it would
be possible with words, that the
speaker was giving them just what
they were craving and that they
were being convinced. If there had
previously been any doubt about the
political status this year of St. Fran
cois county, surely none is now re
maining in the minds of any of those
who were in attendance at the meet
ing Monday evening.
Senator Reed appeared to bo at his
best, although he was, in fact, far
from prime in the afternoon. But
who could stand before an audience
of 5,000 honest, earnest citizens, who
were zealously craving information
before making up their minds, with
out feeling the real inspiration of such
an uplift? Certainly Jim Reed is not
so constituted. He was immediately
elevated to his best, largely by his sur
roundings, and he began pouring out
facts and figures that took hold and
sunk in; he portrayed in most con
clusive manner how, had it not been
for a man of such sterling qualities
as Woodrow Wilson on guard, this
country would now be I the throes of
hell which war real); is beating
out its brains and li'i blood against
an insuwi .tintabl lwark, whieh.
if finally vercotne,lniscicaoJ' nothing
but dead men's bones and groanings
that cannot be uttered.
Senator Reed spoke as though in
spired. He struck our right and left,
and every blow carried a punch that
told. He threw the x-ray on Charles
E. Hughes, who is trying to usurp the
Presidency, and held up tho shallow
ness of his pretenses so that all might
see. He not only stated that Hughes
was the tool of the big financiers and
corporations, doing their every bid
ding, but proved it. His speech was
not made up of mere assertions, such
as Republican orators are compelled
to resort to, but he was prepared to
prove, and did prove, every state
ment he made. He brushed aside his
Will Pass Anywhere
In his speech at Flat River Sena
tor Reed, in treating of the soundness
of the Federal Reserve system, told
of how it had met and taken care of
the tremendous flow of United States
obligations that the European war
hurled back upon us, amounting to
billions, and said that this is destined
to be the great financial center of the
world, and that the American dollar
would take the place of the English
pound sterling the world over. i
A gentleman who heard the Sen
ator said that this reminded him of
an incident in the practice of Dr.
Poston of Bonne Terre. As he tells
the story, one day a woman with her
little son came into the Doctor's of
fice very much excited and distressed,
and so out of breath that she could
scarcely speak. The Doctor noting
her distress kindly asked her what
was the trouble. After a gulp she
succeeded in telling him that the lit
tle tad had swallowed a dime. The
Doctor with a reassuring smile and
patting the little fellow on the head
said: "Don't bo worried, madam.'
American money will pass anywhere." j
Fine Advertising
The St. Louis Star, in its issue of
Sept. 20th, reproduced in full the sto
ry of Farmington's Pageant, taken
from the Times of September 15th.
That the story was worthy of repro
duction by a great metropolitan news
paper is a splendid compliment to this
paper. But it was more than that. It
was one of the best possible adver
tisements of this community to the
outside world.
It is just such publicity as this that'
neiji iiiiinettsui amy in uiuiKiiiK i-aiui-
ington into her own. This city is
most noteworthy, in many respects,
us the successful condition of the
lageant must testify to any discern-,
tg mind, and discernment is rapidly
oming to be a prime factor with
many of the more desirable citizens.
Then, too. there are many such citi
zens who arc constantly looking for
a. more desirable home town, or city,
and to all it is just such publicity as
'Vis that makes a stn'.toti" ameM
Republican opponent, Walter Dickey,
and also Judge Lamm, who seems to
think he is running for Governor on
the Republican ticket, with the state
ment that neither were deserving of
good ammunition so long as they
were equipped only with blank car
tridges. The meeting was presided
over by Hon. J. H. Malugen, of Bonne
Terre.
Hon. Frank W. McAllister, of Par
is, Democratic candidate for Attorney
General, was the principal speaker at
the afternoon meeting. He confined
himself to a sane and logical discus
sion of State politics, touching on all
those things from which Republican
speakers have been vainly trying to
extract flaws. Speaking of the
"busted" State treasury and the "loot
ed school fund", of which Judge
Lamm's carefully prepared speech
mainly treats, to serve his own per
sonal ambitions, Mr. McAllister dealt
in figures to Bhow the absolute fal
lacy of such statements. Instead of
a "busted" treasury, the figures show
all of the various funds to be abso
lutely in tact, notwithstanding the
decreased State revenueE from dif
ferent sources. He further stated
that only during one period had the
school fund been looted in this State,
and that was for about ten years, in
the latter sixties and early seventies,
when the Republican party was in
complete control of the State govern
ment. He spoke concisely and to the
point, his speech being completely
stripped of all superfluities, making a
telling, and, apparently, a lasting
impression on his auditors. He closed
by asking his auditors if they believe
Republicans should be permitted to
continue to misrepresent abroad this
grand old State, which they have ma
ligned ever since the war. He ad
vised a stinging rebuke to such polit
ical bandits, believing that in such
action lay the course left open to the
ridding of the State of such political
free-booters.
Congressman Walter L. BapfUy fol
lowed with a brief but happy speech,
and was given an ovation when he
mounted the speaker's stand. He
aid it was nt ' '. . f.t cf de
priving hi eu.v-' .'.uem.ii at such an
opportunity of hearing such' eminent
speakers from a distance; -that he
proposed to spend several days in St.
Francois county before the close of
the campaign, when he hoped to meet
all the citizens personally, and that
all would then have an opportunity of
hearing him discuss the many and im
portant issues of the present cam
paign. That old Democratic war-horse.
Senator Jasper N. Burks, presided at
the afternoon meeting, and made a
characterisitc speech in opening the
meeting. Gower's Juvenile Band of
this city was in attendance und en
livened the occasion with splendid music.
Another Jail Break
Peter Smith and George Black broke
out of the Farmington jail last Tues
day afternoon. There is no resident
iailer nt: t.hn i.nil huilil inn n mir Up
Beatty occupies a room there at night
to look after things, and Sheriff Wil
liams and Deputy Brown look after
the juil dui-Mig the day. Tuesday af
ternoon they both happened to be out
of town. Sheriff Williams, with that
sympathetic nature for which he is
well known, did not lock the men up
in the steel cells, but permitted them
the freedom during the day of the
corridor around the cells. The ceil
ing of the jail is stripped with steel.
By some means the men got one of
the steel strips loosened, crawled up
between the ceiling and the floor of
the second story, made their way
along the space between the joists
until they came to a place where they
could pry the planks of the second
story floor and get out into the
room. Here they lifted' a shotgun
and a pair of shoes belonging to Mr.
Beatty, went through a window out on
the buck porch, thence to the ground
and hiked out for as yet nobody
knows, for they are still at large.
Smith was serving a term in the
penitentiary on a conviction of forg
ery and was recently taken from the
pen and brought here to be tried at
the November term of the Circuit
Court on another charge of forgery
connected with the Flat River Bank.
Black was in jail on information
charging him with the theft of an au
tomobile at Elvins, and his trial was
also to come up at the November
term.
Still Coming
The followinc new snrwcrihnra
been received the past week for The
Times, which indicates, among other
things, that the people are interested
in the campaign now in progress, and
that they know where to get reliable
information: F. L. Graham of Liber
tyville, W. R. Springer and F. E.
Boyd of Flat River, Chas. H. Black
ledge of Avon, P. J. Yeager of Bis
marck, Rev. Warner H DuBose of
El Paso, Texas; W. B. Phillips, of
Farm'nron.
