9m
mm
52D YEAR.
OREGON, MISSOURI, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1916.
rlothes Satisfaction
Death of Henry Z.ichninn.
Henry Znchman wan born In Marlon
county, Ohio, January 28, lf33, nnd
died nt bin homo in Oregon, Mo., Pvp
tombor 22, HUG, fiRt-tl Ki yearn. 7
months ami 21 day, tie wan unite I
In mniriago August lf, ISC1, In Mnry
Ansclment, nml to union eight
cliil'lrrn were bom, thice of whom
liave "gone on before." In October,
I Mill, lliotl.er Znclmtnn, villi his fr.ni
lly, came lo Mlrimni, settling on n
fnun, nenr Nickcll's Grove. In 18S2,
bin wife died, and In 18K:t ho mnrrlul
Mnithn Smith. Thin union wan bless
ed with nr.e child, nml In 1SS7 the
hnml of death nsnln deprived him ( f
II companion. In lhOl ho wnn marrit I
to Mrx. Su.nn llendcr. with vhom ho
live I for 21 yearn, when she, too, wn
called to the "other side," since which
time hln youngest daughter linn lov
ingly nml tenderly minlstctcd to hli
nerds nml kept hi home.
Mr. Znchman wns converted, when
nh nit ir year nf njri'. nml nt once
iinitni witu the l.vnngillcul Asrtci.v
tlon, of wh'ch he rontlnui'il nn hnnore.l
nml useful member linlll the ilny of
lil ilcntli. During the yearn of hlit
henltli nml vigor, ho ni always fore-mo-t
In the woik of the ehuirh, nml
during bin lait yearn, when no longer
nlilo to follow the doslti-n of liix heart,
his oft cxpicsscd regict wnn hln Innbil
Ity to nerve the Lord In the chuie-h. an
win liln formrr custcm. In the lnt
months, when In conversation, ho
would often uii-h Unit the l.oril might
soon see lit to tiihc him Home, for tto
fell hi work wan ilone, nml on lnt
l-rhlny morning, the bird jjrntly kiss
il him nslocp, like n tlieil child on It
mother' lio;om. Ill mil rnmc lot
pcnccfully nn the sunshine of n ptln(
morning.
"Life nml labor ilone, an sin!: thcilny,
Light from Itn load the spirit Mix,
Wlille heaven umlcnith combine to nay
Mow blent the righteous when he
elien."
The deceased cnine to Holt eoiinlv.
In I SSI!, nml started n fnrin In the
Nlckoll'n drove tltrtrtrt. and pursued
thin lire until Ib'J.'l, when he Hlli.il,
nml ennie to Oregon, wher he tcslded
until il( nth. living n ended, unpictcu
Hons, b-it devoted Christian life.
Mr. Zurlnnnu wan one of the pto
mern fir tlic Kvnngclirnt cIiuitIi nf
thin cn-intv, nnd he together with hi
brother, Daniel Zaehmnii, hln father-In-law,
Joseph Ansclmcnt, Ailnm
Hung, Ulrlch lltirher nnd Daniel
Kunkel, Sr., nrgnnlrod the llrnt clnm
nf thin rhtiivh In the county in the
NlckellV Gruxo section. Daniel Znc'n
mnn In now the only icmnlnlnK mem
bcr nf thin orlKlnal clnnn.
Mr. Znchiiinii in sun-lvcd by five,
children: Chnrlcn, '.Vcsjcy. and Mrs.
Wesley linstock, of thin county!
I-rank, of Seattle, Washington: I!ev.
Itlrhnnl II., of .SprliiKvalley, Illlnoln,
nnd Minn Mac, of Oregon; nnd neven
Kranilchtldrrn. He In alnn nimivcd
by live hrnthern: Daniel, of thin city;
Mlrhnel, Trnnk nml l.ewln, of Marion,
Ohio, nnd Joieph, of HochcMcr, In
illnnn. I'unenil K'n'Icen were held from the
J'.vniiKellcnl ihurch, .Sunday nfler
noon lnt, Seiitemlier 21, enmlurteil by
hln pnHnr, liev. V, C. Johnson, who
wnn anMMed by lievn. A. I'. Itlre. of
Mound City, nnd l J. IVltr. of Win
Mnn, Mlnnouil, n former pni-tor of the
NlrkellV .lirove chinch.
The Intirment was In the Nlrkelli
tiimo ci'iiietci-y.
M .m PHP!
5trwyr ouutc esiDCE. etroec am rtc t cum 1 ,u " Ti IV ijSF.
a g d. m
U 3 S
WO Ms tW f
News Snapshots
Of the Week
On the Homme front Hie Trench nnd IlrllMi ofrefilo nwept IhroiiKh the t.'ernmn llne, U'liiK broimlil nenrer lo the chJcctlMx ot
their pre-ctil ilrhc. I'ernniie mid Itiipiiume; lln!luii Irwin n new mote on Tilele, while the KcrlniH for the llrnt lliue In n
)cnr fought on Scrvhin territory, ItirenteuliiK the llnlpirhiiii nroiiml Moiiu-tlr. The IikiciimiI mthlty of I' liwtn lm cnueil
ninny of the nlllen' In rue tnerehniitiiieli to firm with four Inch emu. After Hie ciilline of Hie On. ! Iirl.lce ki.hii. ihlrli l.llliil
eleiin. Ciiiimi1:i nt ome ntnrleil nn lnelh:iiHnii lo .lnee the blnine. Htrect. miIihiij nnd "I," mr weie coiciiil ullh nleel tiellliiu lo pioliit mntornicli from
'jutiii Uurlnt.' Mi-olid New Vork elly Iriictlou lrll.o. Hmln plmiK to enpliire nml Inleru Mul.ll HuHd. ex rnllnii of MoriH-io, who lei nlnrteil niinttn-r leU lllen,
rorl.fie Venrt. Mnrrliil.
It In n little late, "Pack." bi t It In
nlnrere, in well n n rood thing, no
lintter when it rome. n'onj;, ro The
I'Millne! exlemln yon nnd your denr
wife itn niiicere niiiL'itiilnt onn en
hnvlng reached your fortv-llve yen'""
nf tiiniried life, nnd honen yon both
limy live to enjoy your iiinmomi nnr.l-
vcmary.
,l. C 'nck" Jnebv nnd Nnncv
llogcrn werp mnirleil feptemlier II,
IK, 1. nml they inve cone iinwn t ie
rondttny of life toudhrr hand In liiiml.
nlilo by nhle, henrt to limi t, nnd taken
t lie clouds with the numdiine mi lovlnn
Iv together. They hnve rnl'Pil n nice
rnnil v or r illilrrn. nml thev lofelher
with nome frlemln nnembled nt .1. IV
homo in Mound City, on Kumlnv, lTlh
Instant, to rc elirnte the ocean on. In
the form of n Mirprbe to thp couple,
and It proved a mnnt happy nITnlr.
J. r. iiagny wnn liorn In mir linnnn
rounly, thin ntatc, August "JTll, 1MI.
U h nnier wan c nan inc iv. n V r-
glnl.ltf.'wlio emlirrnteil. when n voting
man, to Kentucky, nml in ltvii came
to Mlnnouri. nml In lS.'.l enmc to Holt
county, rnil J. V. cnine along, nnd thn
lingnyn inrateM m licnruii townrhlp,
In that nectlon now known ti the
Itpgl.y dintiict. for wl.oi.t the illntilct
wt.s nniiieil. J. P. until nulte rrcentlv
ever rcmnined on hln old fnrm, when
he moved to Mound City, where he
nnd hln wife nre Inking life cony in
inn icu;i or an inuunirioun, irttgni
life.
When the C v Wnr rnme on. .1. P.
rnt liN lot with th cniiM- nf the
So'Jtli. and put on the gray, an n mem-
nor nt i no idiii .Minouri inmntry,
S. A., nnd we believe he mnde n irood
loldier, lighting for whut he thought
wnn ri;iit. .Mr. naitiiy in n .Man,
and a member of the Mound City
lodrc. Mr. Hr.isby, now In hln "fitli
yinr. In enjoying rennonnbly good
health, an Ih nUo hln wife.
Our IIoh,
Two rplmdld young men, Ilnlph
Mooie nnd Choiter .Springer, hnve
launched their bark upon the com.
mcrelu! sen, nml hopo to bo nhle In
guide their bark In n wny that will
l.rovp n help to them nml beneficial
bi the people nt large In thin nectlon.
They nre both young men of rich, red
blood, full of that energy that In need
ed for Hurcennrul merchnndli.lng, nnd
we benpenk for them n libernl nhaio
of the trade. They nre ilci-crving
young men, nml come to thin trnde
w th elenn hand and clean henrtn,
with but one motive uppermost to
i-crvc their customcm honornblc and
well, llnth them young men nre well
known to all our people; their liven
have been rant with un, and they
iloubtlef feel that they can get In
touch with the people nn to their
needs In good, reliable merelianillnlnjf,
nnd nt prices an reasonable nn ani
line can wish for, cont being connid
ered. When In town, go In nnd nhako
Halnh and Chester by the hniul, and
wish them nurrcsn, nml encourage
them by buying something from their
shelves.
MrDanirl In the Toils.
Osrar D. McDanlel, prosecuting at
torney of lluchanan county, wan plac
ed under arrest Sunday last, Septem
ber 21, on n warrant Issued on com
plaint of Hart M. I.ockwooil, special
,1 tVlUiCH I n r 1 1 m MnDn t 1. 1
with the murder of hln wife, on the
night of July 14 last. When nrrcBted
ho displayed no emotion whatever.
Domestic troubles nre described by the.
authorities as tho motive for the das-
lanuy crime, and this In tho theory
upon which tho case Is based by tho
stnte.
Hinges! Ker.
W. A. S. Dcrr, who lias been buying
and shipping live stock from Oregon
for 34 yenrs, Informs us that on I'ri
day Inst, September 22, ho shipped a
single deck car of hogB, tho largest
load ho has ever shipped In his 34
years of experience. Thcro wcro 110
head, and tho total weight was 24,860
founds, and they brought $2,449.20.
Will says this load beat anything he
iviT iiunuicu m mo nog line.
Will Tyson, last week, brought
in some aou neaa or sheep from the
umana mantel.
t:ijihty-lth Mile Stone.
Another milestone wn reached Sun
day Innt. September 21. WW, by Mr
Jlnry t urry, nml nltliougn now n.
yenrn of nge nnd miltc feeble In ti e
phytlrnl, nho In Mill n woman of nm..t
reii'iirkidi'v mertnllty. nnd retnlnn her
ientnl pnlno far beyond those muc'i
younger.
Tho ocrnnlon nf her birthday In nl
wnyn olecivnl by her rhlldrcn, who
gather r.boiit her nnd bring to ber
tnVeiii of leve nnd well wishes, nnd
Sunday last wnn no exception lo the
rule An nddltlon thin year wn the
mining of her first great-grandchild.
Mil's IMna Wllhelminn. daughter f
Mr. nml Mm, Johnon .1. Knvhlll.
Her ch'ldrrn nr.d chHdivn'n rhl'driii
were fnthenil nt the lioirp nf her
Highly and Sewn. Some Ki'mlmliinrrnrri',
Tlii' Old Sentinel temln itn nearly IMItor, Sentinel: Having returned
'ml nlnreie roni'intulntionn, nnd nl- fnun my vnrntlon, nllliough It linn per
ho'igli n little Into, they nre none tlieilmp.t nliendy had ovcrinurh publicity,
'e ,. slnreie. On Senlember Ifi. Uncle ' 'l teen n iironei Hint I should ncknowl.
liUim Hertvn reiicloil nnotlu r birth- liilge fa vein treelved nml ndd some-
n. nml It wnn innrliril H7. Nn iiin'i ' lilnir to t he nlorv or my Inn.
etn nny more out of thin life In bin! My nntlcipntioun were mole than
Ihimii field than he; nml nn man, I realireil fu the privihge of walking
"e nii or child within the eonlliien .nlmut Hip olil home town, not so much
f the county, thnt In not willing to
'mil whatever he telln them nboul
shfne. I'ishlng In the essential pnrt
f Ids life, and he snvn he In ever
ee'e ft !c ot ill Inb v,aonn nnd
r eouillt'oil' be"-g I J
i . I . '-nrl.i Mp'iobir I'..
' bet n renn ' 'd d .rn'".' ii
In- . . ( mw, Ohi, r ' ler--" d
dnurhtcr. Mr. nml Mrs. 0. I). Zoo, to !. n cn.-p.-i.tc" n ; o-;,an cr -ity
wliere lr, cuny iliiiing her iimny Hint rime. i,e ih'ii.kii Mime, gomi.
venrn of wldimlrwHl hn mnde her in Mlci mil !. oln. In
home, nml "?In" Curry seemed to en r"d In IMW me - t Or"on .' eie
Joy every hour of the time they spent ho f " I 'r 'ir ' nlll !Tti. ber
wltlf her. An elnbornle dinner wn1 he ti i -1 un nod ..vol to Mound C t.
prepared by Mrn. Zok, nml sho enjn nnd 1 " 'nyil ver sleei
nl the ninny good thing to nt i III 1 " b ill t'lt M !' ibuiv!
spirnd before her nnd the guc.tn. tber- eui H'eii i.ul'in vlMi lli'.t nrj-r.
"Mn" Cerry In every relation aflnlzn'.lo". .
Ilfo ban AIM her niche In the ptftilrn Mr. Ilerron wnn twice mnrrlfds hir
of life with n brnutlful simplicity, nml ! Hist wnn to hninli Is In Ohio
... .' . . 1 , fc. I... .11... 1 I.. ,
by thin simplicity linn irnde her ilenr
to not only her Klopeople, but to all
who have been within her elide of
friends nnd Hint rlrcle may well In
clude nil our people.
She hn been n resident of our little
city for sixty ycnis, nnd she ban seen
It, an well an the county, grow to
their present splendid proportions, nnd
nn ine matenni nivnurementn. Nic i.i
perhnpn one of the oldest of Hie sur
viving pioneers of Oregon, nnd not n
resident of the oM histoilc town to
day, but will wish her days inn) yet
bp mnnv with un n beautiful rhnrnc
ter ami In mnnv respectn n remark-
Meter Post, C. A. It.
Ilv tlivltlltlnn nf line rmiirmln. Ilnli.
ert Montgomery, we met nt hl home,
Sat unlay, Septendier 23. Mr. and Mm.
Montgomery greeted each romradn nn
we entered the npacloun reception hall.
Mrn. Harry Dungan pined on each
comrade n lovely boi'iet, and we
were comfortably seated in the pallor.
The comrades present were:
C. W. Cummins, A. W, VanCamp,
i. ii. iiniieris, I., w. nrailiey,
W, I). I.ukcnn, Knrl Cooper,
D. P. Dobynn, V. Tunihnm,
l S. Morgan, Philip Hush,
Dan Kunkel, T. C. Fuller,
Dnn llurrler, Itob't. Montgomery,
Clint I.everlrh, W. II. Hnrdmnn.
Tho regular meeting of the Post
wan transacted, after which a memor
ial sendee was held for our dennrtol
comrade, August Weigcl. Comrades
llotiens, i nner nnd Montgomery each,
spoke of Coimndu Weigcl as a high-
imniieu, conscientious citizen, a true
friend, nn acrommodatlmr and hclnful
neighbor nnd a bravo soldier.
l'ollowing this service, tho comrades
Just named above, gavo us some of
their cxncrlcnccs while attending tho
National F.ncatnnmcnt at Kansas Cltv.
Comrndo Itnbert wns especially for-
iunuiu in inci'iuig ijuiic a numucr ni
his old regiment, tho C2d Illinois In
fantry six men of his own company.
Comrndo Fuller was greatly pleased
to meet one man nf bin old regiment,
tho 83d .Indiana Infantry, and of his
own enmpnny. This wns a glad meet
ing, ns they iiml been boys and school
mates together. Comrado Montgom
ery met one of his regiment, 22d Ken-
tuck:)' inrantry. lie said lien Morgan
was tho Instrument In getting them
together, nnd says Hen Is n regular
"rat" In digging things up.
About this time we were Invited to
tho dining room and served with nn
elegant two-cnurso luncheon. Tho
rooms ami tahles were tastefully dec
orated with tho national colors. Mrs.
Montgomery was assisted In serving
by Mrs. Win. Morris, Mrs. Harry
Dungan and Miss Gusta Uppcrman.
Tho usual voto of thanks, and tho
thrco times three, were extended, and
wo bade good evening.
You may hnr from us again In tho
near future.
F. S. MORGAN, Adjutant.
Miss RachacI Weller, ofMaltland,
Is teacher of piano at Chancy, Wash
ington, University,
ifi.VI: she died in lSCM. nml hln second
.arrlnge wnn to Mnry K. Trnvernncr,
In IM',1. She dlii! No, ember I. HHI,
nt the nge of 73. Uncle Milt wan
made nn Odd IVIlow nt Mound City
in IbTi..
Here's to you, Uncle Milt!
P. K
( haplir Z. P. H. O.
The immliers of Clipptrr Z
0., begun their woik for the winter
of P.Mfi-IT, nt (lie home of Mis.
Frnnky lllmle, on I'rldny nfteiiiimn.
.epteinlier ... I His wns our lirst
meeting for seveinl weeks nnd ixciy
nlile woman. The Old Sentinel with one wns very entliiinln' tie over lu-gui
...I.I .1. 1 I . . . .. . . 1 ..I...- II .. I.I..I. I.. ..
which she him been n pnrt nml n tend
er from II Inception M yenrs ago,
scnim us Kimuy gieeungn.
About the family bnnril on her sftth
birthday were gntheied, on Sunday
last, were: Mrn. C. D. Zonk, husband
nnd daughter, Mm Sherman Hibhurd
and husbnnd, of Kunsnn City; her
sons, Aut Curry, wife nml four elill
drcn; Tom Curry, wife nml daughter,
Mi's. Johnron I'ayhlll, husbnnd and
their daughter. Kdun Wllhelminn. Her
son. Mont, of K'ansns City, wan iiuahle
to bo present, ns nlso her grandson,
W. II. Curry, of Indianapolis. Minn
llonnle llro.lhcck, n niece, wns abo
piesent.
Where They fin.
The annual conference "of the M. K.
church, which wnn In session nt Kiiks
vllle, Inst week, closing Its labors on
Sunday last, September 24, nnd lllshop
Ounyle, who presided, mado his on-
nnunrements nn to the appointments
iur iiiu year.
liev. Anderson, who hnn been with
un for the past two yenrs, retires from
aeuvo service, ami will likely removo
to Keokuk, Iowa,
liev. Sumuel Cnrothcrs, who hod
mis r targe n IHK.i-4. ret res rroin nc.
tlvo ministerial service after 41 years'
service, joining mo conference nt
Louisiana, Mlssouil, In 187(1. Ills last
chariro was that nf the Onklnml I'nrk
church, at St, Joseph, the past ear.
uev, innrics r.. I'circo is returned
to the Huirmnn Memorial charge, at
St. osciih.
Charles J. Chaso is continued ns tho
District .Superintendent.
W. It. I.nycart is assigned to He
thany. A. J. Hrcu'k, who was here, IWKl-a,
Is returned to Amity.
II. K. Morga goes to Helena.
Wilnier Doughty was accepted by
tho conference, on trial, nnd was as
signed to Martinsville,
C. F. Hand Is tho new assignment
for Oregon.
J. II. Thompson, who wns heiu In
1013-14, is sent to llldgowny.
J. H. Dennett to Fillmore.
J. P. Sturgcs returns to Maltland.
I.ano Douglas Is returned to Mound
City. Ho wns tho pastor In Maltland
in 1003-5.
W, B. Christy, who wns hero in
1884-7, is assigned to tho KIrksvlllo
charge.
William Lunsforcl, of tho Ilagby
district, is very low with typhoid
fever.
nine Hie new study, which In n course
in slioit Moi, v telling nnd in learning
the history of the blithers.
Although we weie glnd to be to
gether ngaln, our henitn were nd
dened by the death of .Mr. Henry
Zncliienn, fnth-r of our piesldent,
Miss Mne. which had occurred n few
bourn lefoie. She In ii'sinied of the
nympnthy of each one of us nnd of un
love nml honor for her until Ine nnd
fnlthful rare of her nged father.
Mrs. Knte Clngett wnn received into
the sisterhood, nnd we nre much pit n.i
ed to number her among un.
A rommlttie wn appointed to su
pervise the hnspitnl room, furnished
by the Chapter, nt the new high school
building.
We enjoyed the dainty refreshments
and adjourned to meet October fi, nt
the home of Mrs. Ilebeccn Allen.
MILS. HIHTII II. IIUNKF.i:.
Jnumnllst.
o
in what I rnw un In the memories
nwnl.ciied.
At .mi: the fnini'hr obJertH i mtihi
nig were what wnn known nn the
I'.-tel blee'i. fie ." n. i'U M-'t lerb
deuce, with law ollice adjoining: the
Itrtrt Pc.ahl'lfit-f'itl rlill(-li. .lllili.A
".InrMnml'n residence: the siunre yel
low linuie of A. C. Itevnn, nml lent
ihnce, with biisement, wheie n scbml
wnn Inught by liev. t'huilen Mcl'nln
in IH.'iT: the brick blnrksmltb ami
wngon simp of dipt. Alfred Wnlternj
r.nn ino court noure, somewiint cnmrg
id.
An elfort was jnnde to dlcoer tho
..Id log ri.fiise, in which Snm
Ituley 'uiw ;;i(i.iH' sixty yenrn ago,
I ut It liud dlsi.'i'Loihul. Kunkel' nhl
i ...in ,.. , . i
reii nun onn Afn,.voe. i ne inline
City Hotel, kept by Mr. Kcovec b.id
hill surcecileil by u brick; the Price
House ennwrted Into several small
Imps. I lie .'ciitiiu'l, which hnd form
elly iK'runleil u frame buildlm:. known
as (ingg's Hall, hnd mnveil Into itn
iumi iiinitein n few doom south or
about where WhilmirV saddlery shop
unci! to stnnd. The rerldenre section
f the town hnd been much extended.
nml on every hand were beautiful
home nml grounds. A slntely high
ichool building was found gracing the
hill, wliete formerly stood the liisj,
In irk school building.
The fn'iilllar Mi am roller, with piles
oi nroKen none nml snun, gave . rem
ise of luivid stieetn. which good work
if imt nlica.ly done, should extend tn
the country load.
It In cause for I cent thnt I could
not have leisurely visited other pails
of tho county, meeting oilier member
oi x in' l ourtli Ui-'iuiy. However, tin
brief view liad of the town nml vicinity
gave me nn Imiueislou of nrosneritv.
nn. I t in lot contentment, iimI n moral
tone, in tditup contrast with the com-
inemni rusn oi iiuiie ntiier ciuuiuu
ultles.
I'lom Oregon, I dlopped down to
Wniienshuig, wliere our leglment en
iniupeil for a t iin nml wheie icpore
ine remains oi my loonier, ijeorge,
enred for by coioiudc of the (i. A. It
.Mar uere, uisn, in tin- last testing
plnro of the wife of my youth. Thence
to Sednlin. the nlace of our innniiiL-e.
where, nlso, the I'oiirth liegiment wan
stationed for u while. At Scdullti, it
was my privilege to met my fello.v
newspaper man ami comrade, j, west,
Goodwin, of the lliuoo, who Is turn
over BU year or uge, but still elrec
tlve.
Jackson, Capo Girardeau count)-!
was the next stunnlnir nluce. There.
by searching the county records ami
consulting un (instruct ollice, 1 wns
alilu to locate the former home of
Shepherd llowman, my grandfather,
and my probable birth-place. Hiring an
auto and securing tho service of u
photographer, we went northwcstcrlv.
through Oak Itidge, thenco four or
five miles further to thu farm und
home, which I was able to recognlzo
us- mo spring nousc. ui) a grassy
sloiio stood tho old Iol- house, w-llh
were it long iiorch, und hack of the house
re lilowii
eml dn)n befme electric light nnn cei.
plume sen ire will lie resumed. A
nil or the depot toof wan blown off:
the livery hnni wnn nreltlv hndlv
Inmagctl: John t'ouifhlln'n line ulllre
wns blown from itn foundation; n coal
house, nt the home of V, A. Solteiler,
wnn picked up nnd carried nbout n
milium ynnin nml deuioiiriicil. tico.
ourier suireieii ttie most ilnmago of
nny one in town. Hie front porch
wnn torn nil" of bin house, ipilte u
number of shingles torn oil, and the
'-.else mole or less lviHln.l tttil tiT
hnpe. nnd his large bnrn wnn Idem u
lonn. Small h'tildhig., nil over town
were mote or less dnmngiil. Almost
ever) hotly In town, who had cellars.
Went to the cellar when the storm
rnme up nlmut U p. 111. Hall stones,
is inrge n mn eggs, reii ror nimui
"ve minutes, breaklnir out unite n
number of window light. The dam-
age in town will inn up to siveiul
hundred nullum. lieinntn coining
friun the country, Wednesday mom-
-ng. innirnie eiore or n-ss nnn-nge. It
Ictioilril thnt Hen I'nemnn' house
"n- ImiiiixI, either struck by lightuln;;
r iiiowii over, nnn rmigiit lire; liln
tun wn nln blown nwny. At the
'nil (ifcflia'n nlace. Hie b.ini nml
other outbuililingn weie blown down,
but the bouse wnn not dnmngid, nnd
almost nil of bin otrhnrd wnn uproot-
ii. ii win i'e seveiai n.-ivn nerore llie
extent of the dntenge will l.e known.
. D. Morris' hum In tepoited us
lown down, .Many Iroen weie also
limn iWn In dilfeietn si-rtlonn of
the adjoining territory. Ill'lli:,
After Man) Year.
Chnrles Groom, of 1'orsvth. Tnnev
county, thin state; IM Gloom, of Wal
lace county, Kuti'as, and l-rnnk
Groom, of Topckn, Knti'iis, nil broth
cm. weie heie "t week, rolled by the
renoun niciinc-sn oi ineir mother, .xir.
;), liTcnini, wtA re!dc on Uoute I,
nenr Oregon, Thcsp gentlemen were
ill born hi re In Holt county Charley.
icur the old Duurnn mill, und l.'d ami
l-'imik on the old Hoswell fiire. riv
ct-uplisl b Homer I'lirsi.i . 'l-i
wns tlicii nist vim, e.iil; t., ,. v ,,i
home in mnny yenrn. Chnrlcn in nn
.ibstiuvter nt I'ois.Mli. and one of the
ending eltl-ens of thnt place, having
held various county ollleen Iheie, Kd
nml Frank nre piomlnent citizens
"here they reside. We nre glnd in
Into Hint Mr. Grocm I now lomn
better.
A Former Itc-hlinl.
Mm. J. I. Dillon. fori..erly of this
eft), but wlio removed u few year
ago to Uniting. Nebraska, write us
nilcr n lecent date, n follows, from
D.hImiii, Montana, whcio she hnn re
moved with her family:
"My family In ipilte se-nlteri-d, thin
xear. Mnln-I is tinrhlng in Kentucky;
','inn in still In Nebraska In n very
nice ofllre, nnd Irene nml husband aro
out here. Wo have claims Joining.
Tills In a lino country, nnd we aru ail
enjoying our homestead experiences.
Irene's thiee months' old hoy is tho
linest ever, nnd never let's un get
lonesome. We still wait anxiously for
Sentinel ilny."
Didn't Ask Him.
Some parties, unknown, railed ut
Hie stole of S, M. Howard & Co,, nt
Fortescue, Monday night nf tills week,
September 25, It is evident their cnll
wns mado after business hours, for no
ono wnn there. Iloth Air. Howard and
his partner, Judge A. W. VnnCnmp,
had gone to their respective fire-side
and bnoo7.ed away until early morn
ing, ami on opening tho store early
Tuesdnv mornliiir. found thev hnd hnd
caller,' who be-lped themselves to ujby tho spring house.
stijipiy oi shoes, overalls, etc.
The lllirclnw lilood-hoends
cnlled Into ser-iee. nnd thev ti nPed wns the barn, nlsu of lues, nml intiu-t.
the untile ns fur ns Napier. lleiolOno end of tho dwelling houso linl
it In supposed the thief or thieve took j been torn down and a liko addition
the frff'g; t train, leaving tl.eie nbout mudo to tho other, prcscn-lng tho
0 n. m. original form. Tho apple trees, which
It was on June 2, HJI2, that tl.o Clover seventy years ago, dropped their
V. Crulg store wan burglarized. golden fruit along tho path to tho
Will Jnspor, on May 24, 1000, had 'spring, had passed away, hut a num-
nnrTi, sii'Mic. etc., stolen rtmn ins
barn.
F.mmiU llinkle bud n ?1(0 dollar
bill stolen from his home, I'ebiunty
22, 1012,
Hnlley M. llees'ey and John C.
Illnkio ea-li had a horso sto'?n July
1001.
Jan. Dukn hnd a horco stolen July
7, 1007.
I,. I, Moore, manager, anil Judgo
D. F, Morgan, of our Intcrurban rail
road, havo returned from St. Louis,
whero they purchased a new combi
nation coach for the company. It will
bo ready for delivery In about two
weeks.
-i-.-.-n. .. u . uut u num
ber of nines still flourlsheil In Ihn
front yard. After making views of
theso familiar scenes wo faced about
lather regretfully for home.
So tho cntlro trip has passed from
actual experience to a nicro memory,
coupled with a lingering desiro to try
it over again.
Finally, permit tno through this
medium to repeat my thanks to all
who so kindly contributed to render
my visit a perfect success.
, , , ClIAHLiES W. BOWMAN.
Washington, D. C, September 18, 1010.
Jim Hodgin has purchased tho
Mrs. Tilda Harmon farm, of 160 acrcn,
in Clay township, at $165 per acre,
Holt fount) In II.
You cnu nlwuyn rest usnurred that
wime of tho boy who go out fron
Holt county will some day sooner or
Inter be heard from, ami now the In
formation reaches us that Mart, son
of Judge George Ilibhard, of this
county, In tho Itcpublicnn nominee for
representative In Johnson county,
Wyoming. I. K, Gilbert, who was In
tho clothing business hero with C. .1.
Koork, nnd mnrried u Miss Kurtz,
of Nodaway township, In tho Repub
lican nomineo for county treasurer of
the same county. They aro both tho
"stuff," and will fill tho Job all right.
An Old Timer.
Sid Itussell, wlille West this sum
mer, met Cyrus Cook, at Colorado
.iprings, wnero no was residing, en
Joying reasonably good health at tho
age of 83 years, Mr. Cook was at
tho head of tho Oregon schools, during
tho year 1858-fi!l-0ll-(ll. He, with A.
viutrous, wcro nt tho head of tho
Holt Countv New, in 1850. Thin
wns tho first paper published in tho
county, und wns established by J. if.
C. Cundilf In 1857.
Eenlerl'iined.
.Miss Huella Hulntt wns hostess,
riiuisday afternoon, to Class No, 4,
of the I'resbytcrlun Sunday school,
which wns organized recently by ten
young Indies, nnd is cnlled tho "I'll
liy" clnss, with Mrs. Will Markt as
teacher. After tho regular meeting
of the class was held, a most enjoyable
social hour was spent in music, and
games, and a dainty luncheon wns
served.
Joe Lent went up to Mound City,
one day, last week, and visited with
his sister, Mrs. Claudo Williams. Joe
says there wasn't any little, tiny baby
