THE BARRE DAILY TIME
VOL. XX NO. 167.
BARRE, VERMONT, FRIDAY, SEPTKMHER 20, 1910.
TRICE, ONE CENT.
BRITISH TOOK
A NEW POINT
AUTO HIT YOUNG GIRL
Winooskl
Child's Condition
Determined.
Not Yet
Captured Strongly Defend
ed Position Southwest
of Le Sars
ATTACK WAS MADE
Winookki. Sept. 2!). Adrienne Matte,
flveyear-old daughter of Mr. and Mra.
Ferdinand Matte of East Allen Ureet,
wa the victim of an automobile aeci-
dent between 4 and 8 o'clock yesterday
afternoon at the corner of Weaver and
Spring street. A ear owned and driv
en by Robert Ryerion hit the little girl,
throwing her to the ground. The ex
tent of her injuries cannot bo ascertained
for a few daya. '
In company with three other little
girls, ahe i coming from St. Louis
convent and was standing on the aide
walk talking. Mr. Ryerson was driving
THIS MORNING r m"hin .'''"InVMM'
TV lilt II B m lUtl UIIV HIC I HHt
started to cross Weaver ktreet as he was
driving on to it. All four children saw
the car, it is said, and started to cross
in front of it. all getting safely by ex
cept the Matte girl. She was hit by
the mudguard and was thrown to the
ground. She was picked up and carried
to her home and Dr. Shcehan was sum
moned and later Dr. J. (J. Ihabault was
called for consultation. She received a
bruise jut above the temple, the shoul
der was injured, and she was also bruised
about the arm. The bruise above the
temple is quite a serious one as it is
feared that a blood congestion is apt to
develop. The little girl was unconscious
hist evening. Mr. Ryerson stated that
his car was being driven at low speed and
that he put on the emergency brake im
mediately. One of the little girls in the
crowd said they beard the horn and that
Mr. Ryerson also yelled at them.
Schwaben Redoubt Also En
tirely Captured Late
Thursday
STILL HAS HOPE
THAT GERMANY
WILL CONQUER
Chancellor Von Bethmann
Holhveg States That on
the Whole the War Situa
tion Is Favorable, Allies'
Successes on Somme Not
Affecting the General Sit
uation-
London. Rent. 2fl.' An attack by Brit
1sh troops on the Somme front early
4 his morning resulted in the capture of
strongly defended farm 600 yards
outhwest of LeSara. the war office an
xiounced this afternoon.
The official statement last night was
H follows:
"We attacked Schwaben redoubt, most
f which is in our hands. In the past 24
hours in this area nearly 000 prisoners
Tvere taken.
"The redoubt occupies a crest 600
?rtT?iJTt: two shots
T n Illlienb pi UUIIU VII uic Aiii'i'-. i
"with a full view over the northern vaney
of the Ancre.
"Elsewhere on our front we eonsoli
dated our ground and advanced our lines
jiorth and northeast of Coureelctte.
"Rritwh. aeroplanes, as usual, in the
past two days co-operated brilliantly
with the infantry. Much damage was
done to enemy batteries and there have
been many instances of our aeroplanes
attacking troous and transports on the
ground with machine gun fire." ,
WHILE IN TAXI
at
FRENCH ALSO MADE
SOME PROGRESS
Official Statement at Paris Says They
Advanced Between Frcgicourt
and Morval.
Later Frank Marshall Fired Once
Himself as He Was Entering His
Home in Brookline, Mais.
He Died Last Night.
Brookline, Mass., Sept. 20. The sui
cide by shooting of Frank Marshall, a
restaurant proprietor in the market dis
trict of Boston for 25 years, at his home
here last night became known to-day. A
son, Carl Marshall, said that nis latner
was despondent.
His statement cleared up a mystery
which the police of Brookline and Bos
ton were endeavoring to solve. A tax
driver reported that a passenuer who
alighted at the Marshall home yesterday
BREATHES HATRED
OF GREAT BRITAIN
Germany Will Not Think of
Peace, He Asserted, as
Long as Her House Is
Burnnig "She Must First
Extinguish the Fire"
GIVEN ROUSING WELCOME.
Col. Reeves Back Among Norwich Stu
dents for Short Time.
Xrthlield. Sept. 20. Colonel Reeves
president of Norwich university, who
has been ill command of the First Yer
mont infantry on the Texas tordiT sine
July 1, arrived in town yesterday nmin
from Burlington. He was taken to the
university at once where the corps hud
assembled in lJewrv hall to greet linn
As he entered the remm ho was met by
a rousing X C cheer with tolon.l
Reeves at the end. Applause for sev
eral moments was so great thst no words
could lie heard. President Reeves then
cave a short talk.
He said that he hoped to be back to
Norwich for good by Saturday. Intil
then he would bo busy mustering the
regiment out of the federal service. He
regretted deeply that the original plans
for the citizens training camp at Norwich,
this summer had to be given up; but he
believed that when the country called
there was no sacrifice too great to be
made. He was very sorry that the
corps had lieen prevented from joining
the regiment on the border. He had
lone his best to make this possible so
that those who had volunteered would
not be disappointed. But now that it
was over we would forget about it as
soon as possible and go forward to make
nwist Huecessiul college year.
After he had finished speaking he came
down from the platform and shook hands
with every cadet present. Cadet Majoi
Cpham introduced the new men to him
Five minutes after this informal re
ception wns over, the colonel was in his
olfice looking over his mail.
Paris. Sent. 20. Further progress was
made by the French last night between fired two shots while riding in the cab
Fregicourt and Morval on the Somme and attempted to fire again while he
front, according to t.he statement of the was entering the house. The officials
war office to-day. On the Saloniki front were unable to get any information about
the Serbians repulsed four Bulgarian at- the matter last night.
tacks on Kaimakcalan.
DROVE CARELESSLY.
100 VILLISTAS SLAIN.
And A1u Without- Linens Woman Mo
Hunt for Villa By Carrawa Soldiers Re- p , st Alb
St. Albans. Sept , 2!). Mrs. C. H.
Chihuahua City, Mexico, Sept.2TT. (Cheney 0f Swanton was arraigned in city
More than 100 Jlla followers were court yesterday before Judge X. X. Post
killed, bandit leader, Baudelio Vribe, on . eharce of drivinir an automobile
Mas talcen prisoner, ana neavj 'casualties carelessly and driving without an op
Were suffered by Carrania forces in a erator's license. She pleaded jmiltv and
fight at Custhuvriaohic, an important was fine(j $5 and costs for ,.ach offense,
mining center 50 miles southwest o' amounting to S22. w-hich she paid. Tfrg.
Chihuahua City, according to a n eesnge chenev was driving in this citv late Wed
Received yesterday by Gen. Trevino from negday afternoon and came down Bank
Gen. Matiag Bamos, who himself was .treet at ft raDjH ,.ate, crossed the road,
and circled around and went up on the
sidewalk in front of Miss Mary bwee
nev s store. As she went around a car
belonging to Raymond Sheldon of Ben
nington was hit and one wheel damaged.
The Cheney car backed down the two ce
ment steps, and was not damaged.
slightly wounded,
Details of the fight were few. A hes
bital corps detachment was rushed to the
scene oy train, it is maiea unit ine
garrison at Cusihuiriachio co-operated
JWith the forces of Ramos.
Baudelio Vribe, leader of the band,
jsad Villa's chief lieutenant, was the
iDriginetor of the idea, of cutting off the
fcara of captured government soldiers,
tklany of his commanl are reported to
have been taken.
News of the fi?lt come also from the
telegraph operator at Santa Isabel, which
Is 33 miles by train from Chihuahua
SELLING PROPERTY FOR TAXES.
Middlebury Constable is Taking Drastic
Action in Collection.
Middlebiiry. Sept. 29. Constable Milo
The hospital train was sent to Santa K. Moore has this week sold two small
Isabel. places in Middlebury to secure the pay-
Troona continued to pour into Chihua- ment of overdue taxes. One was the
htia City from the south to participate Trudo place in the east part of the town
In the Vina nunu usn. .poiotiio ire-
yino's horse command arrived from Tor
eon yesterday. It will bo sent into the
peld immediately. Gon. Fortunato May
rotte is expected soon with his eoininniid
from the Laguna district.
The command ot (n. Carlos Azunas is
r-n route from Saltillo and a command
from Monterey under Col. Muzquis also
Is on the road.
HUGHES ANSWERS 0LNEY.
JTeDs Why He Did Urge Republicans to
Vote Against Eight-Hour Bill.
Saratoga Springs, X. Y., Sept. 20.
Richard Olney s criticism of Charles fc.
flughes and his campaign was answered
last night by Mr. Hughes in a speech be
fore the Republican unofficial state con
vention which repeatedly brought the
delegates to their feet to cheer and ap
Plaud.
"The distinguished former secretary of
state said in substance that I doffed the
judicial ermine and appeared in the mot-
lev -'garb of a seeker for office, Mr.
Hughes said. "I did doff the judicial er
mine and I submit to you that It fell
from my shoulders unsullied.
"Xo American need apologize for being
candidate for office, least of all, I.
had no desire to return to politics, but
there came a summons no honorable man
rould refuse. I did assume the garb, call
It motley or what you will. 1 am now
before the American people seeking the
highest office in its gift.
"For what purpose! Not that I covet
power, but I do covet the opportunity if
It is afforded to maintain American
right and American honor."
TALK OF THE TOWN
J. C DeBrune of .Park street left thia
morning for Bradford, where be will
ipend several days on business.
C, L. Anderson, Joseph Perroti ond
John Mclntyre of Lynn, Mass., arrived
tn the city last night and will spend
leveral days in the city on business.
Mr. and Mrs. Cbsrles Stewart returned
to Barre last evening after spending their
koneymoon in Bton. They will stay
it the home of the bride's parents, Mr.
nd Mra. Jamea Gregory of Washington
street, for a few daya. before going to
Montpelier, where they will reside on
tint street.
bid in by a man named Deruaha, who
has occupied the property for two years,
and the other known as the K J. La
voche place on Shipman hill, which was
bid in by Col. T. M. Chapman, who held
a mortgage on It. It is understood that
there are a number of other properties
that will soon be put under the hammer
for the same reason.
MONTPELIER
Co. H Boys Are Expected Home Latter
Part of Next Week.
Capt. Cmighlan of Co. H, 1st Vermont
regiment, returned this morning to Fort
Ethan Allen after spending the night in
the city, being the first of the local com
pany to arrive home after the three i
months' stay in Texas. Capt. Coughlan
expressed himself as delighted with the
climate at Kagle Pass and like every
other member of the company is in ex
cellent health and has gained 14 pounds
in weight since leaving Montpclier last
June.
The mustering out process is being car
ried on the reservation, the companies
comprising the third battalion being the
first to receive the papers necessary to
their departure for their respective
homes, the company battalion will fol
low and then the first. Co. H forms part
of the second and it a the captain's be
lief that the members of the company
will arrive in Montpelier and Barre the
latter part of next week.
Berlin, via London, Sent. 29. Germany
will persevere until victory is here, the
Reichstag whs told vesterdav bv Chan
cellor Von Bethmann-lio'lweg, according
to the full text of the spo'-h published
to-day. The chancellor declared that this
year's harvest has made Germany's posi
tion much more secure than last year.
In his attack upon Great Britain he
declared that country was breaking one
international law after another and was,
above all, Germany's most egotistical,'
fiercest Hnd most obstinate enemy. The
(rorman statesman who would hesitate to
use against this enemy every available
instrument of battle that would really
shorten this war such statesman should
be hanged.
Chancellor von Bethmann -Tfollwvg de
clared his contempt for those circulating
reports that Germany's means of light
ing were not being employed to the full
est possible extent. lie added that in
order to disappoint the enemy he would
not give the details.
Referring to the actual conditions on
the war front, the chancellor said that
the attacks made bv the centra! powers
in the southeastern theatre had frustrat
ed the great plan of the entente to sever
the connection of Germany with the
Orient by separate conquest of Turkey
Bulgaria and Austria-Hungary.
On the whole, therefore, he said, we
see Moisted successes Detail enemy at
tacks on the Somme, which cannot in
fluence the general situation. On the
other hand, we see the successful re
pulse of all enemy attacks and the frus
tration of the enemy's intentions in the
Balkans and the farilurn of his plans.
Since the first day of the war we have
sought nothing but the defense of our
rights and alone declare our readiness
for peace negotiations.
In concluding his speech, the chancel
lor exclaimed: "Germany will not be per
mitted to think of peace while her house
is burning. She must first extinguish
the fire."
VERMONT SOLDIERS BANQUETED
NEARLY 200,000
WORKERS ARE OUT
Labor Union Officials in New York Do
Not Admit Defeat of Their Plans
for Sympathetic Strike.
Xew York, Sept. 29. Labor union offi
cials who attempted to organize a gen
eral strike here and in Westchester coun
ty, in sympathy with the striking street
car men, refused to-day to admit tneir
defeat, and still claimed that nearly 20(1,.
000 workers had quit. They announced,
however, that efforts to call others would
be postponed until Monday, wtoen a meet
ing of local federal unions will be held
to consider action.
CRUSHED TO DEATH.
C. S. Sumner of Boston is spending a
week in the city on business, being the
guest of his son, Lyman F. Sumner of
St. Paul street.
Stanley F. Wilson of Chelsea, re-elect
ed chairman of the Republican state
committee, is visiting in thcity, having
arrived last evening from Burlinglon.
where he attended the etate convention
held yesterday. Othert who returned
last evening were State Auditor Horace
F. Graha4, Secretary of Civil and Mili
tary Affairs Benjamin Gates and TV. A.
Lord, nominee for city representative.
U. S. Senator Dillingham left this noon
for Manchester. X. where he will be
one of the speakers at a big Republican
rally held at Recreation park Saturday.
The Republican candidate lor governor
of Xew'Hampsbire and others will be on
the program.
West Rutland Quarryman Struck by 12-
Ton Rock.
Rutland, Sept. 29. Peter Dowicz was
instantly killed yesterday morning at 11
o'clock at the True Blue mill in Wet
Rutland when a 12-ton block of marble,
which was being hoisted into a gang.
split and pinned the laborer to the
ground. llr. C. F. Fleming was called
and the body was later removed to the
rooms of Charles H. Camplwll, an under
taker, in the O'Rourke ambulance.
Mr. Dowicz had been employed by the
Vermont Marble company but a few
days and little is known of him. He
leaves a brother in Buffalo, X. Y., and
the funeral arrangements will not be
made until the latter's arrival.
REVOLVED ABOUT SHAFTING.
Arthur Willis, Machinist, Killed at Poult
ney. Rutland, Sept. 29. Arthur Willis of
Hampton, X. Y., died at the Rutland hos
pital at 5 o'clock yesterday afternoon as
a result of injuries received wnue at
work in the SUso plant mill at Foultney.
The man was at work oiling the ma
chinery when his clothing became caught
on a rapidly revolving shaft. One of his
arms was badlv torn and was broken in
three places. He also received internal
injuries whicn resulted m nis ceam at
the hospital, where he was taken im
mediately after the accident.
Mr. Willis is survived by a wife and
three small children.
Big Demonstration Also Given Them on
Streets of Burbngton.
Burlington, Sept. ,20. A crowd esti
mated to have been 10,0H) people wel
comed the Vermont troops, back from
F.agle Phjs, Texas, when they came to
this city last evening to attend a lan
quet at the Van Ness house given in
their honor. The soldiers were brought
from Fort F.than Allen in special electric
cars and they paraded from the corner
of North street and North Winooski ave
nue to the hotel, being enthusiastically
cheered all along the li.;:te.
Pres. Benton of the l'niverity of Ver
mont w as toa st master and Mayor Drew
extended a welcome in behalf of the city.
Colonel Ira L. Reeve, commanding offi
cer ot the Urst erniont, was men intro
duced and was given one of the most
leat'tv. ovations of the evening, to which
he feelingly rescinded. Col. Reaves
thanked the citizens of Burlington on
behalf of the regiment for the welcome
and sentiment which prompted it and
also thanked Colonel Dickman for allow
ing the Vermont troops to Oi-eupy bar
racks at Fort Kthan Allen.
The commanding officer then told of
thi splendid record made by the Vermont
troops during their three months' serv
ice on the lxrder and stated that, al
though he had served in several regi
ments, he had never met one whose per
mnel equalled that of the First Ver
mont. The Vermont troops were the
first, regiment to reach the border, al
though their home stations were the fur
thest distant, after the mobilization
started and were the first to perform
service on the border. They were given
many positions, of responsibility and were
highly regarded by the regular army of
ficer. Colonel Beeves modestly placed
all the credit for these splendid achieve
ments upon the shoulders of the officers
and men of the regiment and denied that
any of it belonged to him. In concilia
ing he stated that the Vermont, troops
must be kept-in-their present etate of
efficiency-
Adjt.-Gen. Lee S. Tillotson, who fol
lowed Colonel Reevea on the program
said that the hardest task of the Xa-
tional Guard was before it and that was
to maintain its present Btatus as an im
portant factor in the national defense of
this country. He attributed to the mob
ilization of the National Guard, the pa
cifying of border troubles and the avert
ing of actual hostilities with Mexico.
President John M. I nomas of Middle-
bury college, former chaplain of the Ver
mont regiment, paid a splendid tribute
to the officers and men of that organiza
tion and a still heartier one to the com
manding officer, whom he characterized
as a great executive animated by the
highest motives. The proudest fact of
his life, declared President Thomas would
lw that he had worn the Vermont uni
form and his most highly prized jewel
would be bis chaplain's insignia.
Gen. T. S. Peck referred with deep
emotion to the. splendid record of the
Vermont troops during the Civil war
and the hearty welcome which awaited
them upon their return. He mentioned
the fact that Dr. and Mrs. Seward Webb
not only sent $i,.r00 for the use of the
regiment's hospital at. the time of the
Spanish-American war, but also present
ed the men with a beautiful service med
al, saying that he hoped the present
guardsmen would receive a similar me
mento. Brief speeches were made by Col. Jo
seph T. Dickman. commanding officer of
the Second cavalry, Capt. TV. X. Hud
son of M company, Capt. John L. Cootoy
of C company and Chaplain Moody. Aft- j
er a selection hy the oano, tne exercises
were closed with the playing of the '"Star
Spangled Banner."
HE FELL 10,000
FEET AND LIVES
French Aviator First Ac
counted for Three Ger
man Aeroplanes
WENT TO RESCUE
OF COMPATRIOT
Knocked Down Three Ma
chines in Two Minutes
and 30 Seconds
Paris, Sept. 29. Three German aero
planes brought down in two minutes and
30 seconds by a stop watch is the latest
exploit of Second Lieutenant George
Guynemer. Incidentally. Guvnemer. who
is known as "king of the aces," fell 10,-
(XNl feet, but esi-aoed unhurt.
Guynemer went to the assistance of a
comrade, hard pressed by five German
machines. He broiiiht down two within
iO seconds and then, risinu. overtook a
hird, which was shot down tw'o min
utes later. He was looking for the re
maining two when a shell burst beneath
im and stripped the wing of his ma
chine of its covering and he plunged
earthward. Although the machine was
emolished, the aviator was practically
nhiirt.
S. C. WILSON AGAIN
STATE CHAIRMAN
OF REPUBLICANS
Party Headquarter! Will Be in Montpel
ier Presidential Electors Chosen at
State Convention in
Burlington.
Burlington, Sept. 29. The Republican
state convention yesterday afternoon
elected James A. Pollard of Chester, Earl
S. Kingsley f Rutland, Alexander Dun
nett of St. Johnsbury and J. L. South-
wick of Burlington as presidential
electors, after which tho following state
committee was chosen:
Addison, M. K. Barnes of Chimney
Point; Bennington, F.. E. Potter of Pow
nail; Caledonia, J. R. Searles of St
Johnsbury; Chittenden, A. L. Sherman of
Burlington; Kssex, 11. B. Amey of Island
Pond; Franklin, Harold Fairchild of Fair
field; Grand Isle, Juan Hobinsnn of South
Hero; Lamoille, S. B. Waite of Hyde
rark; Orange, S. C. Wilson of (helsea;
Orleans, C. S. Skinner of Newport; Rut
land, B. L. Stafford of Rutland; Wash-
ngton, Maurice Dewey of Montpelier;
Windham, J. K. Piddock of Sax ton Riv
er; Windsor, A. 1:. Watson of White
River Junction.
On the adjournment of the convention
he state committee organized as fol-
ows: thnirman, Stanley V. Wilson of
Chelsea; secretary, J. Ralph Searles of
WASSTRANGLED
BEFORE Bl WED
Crime Reve vj at Mountain
View, N After House
F Last Night
MRS. FRED L. SMALL
WAS MURDERED
Wife of Boston Real Estate
Broker Was the
Victim
Mountain View, X. H., Sept. 29. Mrs.
Fred L. Small, the wife of a Boston real
estate broker who was burned in a tire
which destroyed the Small summer
house at Lake Ossipee last night, was
first strangled by a rope tied about her
neck and beaten over the head, it was
$10,000 DAMAGES AWARDED.
the
t
To Charles Barclay, Who Sued Wetrnore
& Morse Granite Co.
The plaintiff. Charles Barclay, a quar
ryman, was given a verdict of $10,000
amages against Wetrnore A Morse
ranite company in Washington county
court vesterdav afternoon, bavins? sued
company for negligence, an accident
the defendants' quarry resulting in
Barclay losing his eyesight and causing
other injuries. The plaintiff obtained a
erdiet for exactly one-half of the
mount sued for. The jury was out
about two and one-half hour reporting
shortly alter s!:,)fl o clock.
Henry Russ vs. Michael Good, trespass,
is the case being tried in court at the
present time, the case having been tried
a year ago with a verdict for the defend
ant, but was appealed to supreme court
and remanded for trial. The suit is the
result of a quarrel between two granite
cutters which occurred nearly two years
aog at the Jones Bros.' granite plant in
Karre.
- According to evidence submitted, an ar
gument commenced during the noon hour
one day at the granite plant and ended
bv Good striking Russ on the jaw. The
defendant claims that his action was the
result of the attitude of the plaintiff.
Good profes-ing to believe that he was
going to be attacked and acted in self-
defense.
The plaintiff on the stand yesterday
afternoon told his version of the affair
and testified as to the injuries he sus
tained as the result of the blow. Good,
it is alleged, walked across a table where
several men were playing cards, and
struck the plaintiff.
The jury hearing the case is as fol
lows: Horace TV. Davis, TV. C. Mann,
John A. Foss. George Cooper, Alvah But
ler, Miltn Glines, Charles Bullock, TV.
L. Stone, Xeil Tassie, Alva Xewhall, Rob
ert Whelan and C. P. Spaulding.
discovered when the body was taken
St. Johnsbury; treasurer, Maurice Dewey from ,.. r..ng
of Montpelier; members of the executive ,t . ... . , . ,. JL
committee, the president, secretary and l " ' l"c
B. L. Stafford of Rutland, Chauncey S. "" " 'over me crime, jiy a
Skinner of Orleans and A. I Sherman mere chance, however, the ruse failed.
of Burlington. It was decided that the The body dropped from the burning floor
headquarters should be at Montpelier, into the. basement and the head and
and the matter of the coming campaign shoulders lodged in a pool of water. The
was left with the members of the cx- rope, which had been drawn twice around
ecutive committee.
The Platform.
The convention adopted the following
platform :
the neck and secured with a square knot
at the back, was preserved.
Mr. .small, who lett home at 4 o clock
yesterday afternoon, six hours before the
fire was discovered, returned hurriedly
Believing that the voters of any body by automobile this morning to assist in
the investigation. It is stated that he
left his summer home yesterday for a
business trip to Boston and that his wife
was alone when he departed. Later
Sheriff Chandler of Carroll county, on his
own authority, placed Small under ar-
politic are entitled to know the
ciples upon which a party seeks
suffrage, we, the Republicans of
mont, by our representatives in
linn-
their
Yer-
state
convention assembled, do hereby declare
the principles for which we stand.
We again renew our allegiance to that rest and held him at a local hotel, pend
party which from its oragnization has jng instructions from the county solid
stood for the protection of American tor.
citizens and American rights at home Mr. Small retired from active business
and abroad, and pledge our earnest sup- about three years ago and since then
port to the platform recently adopted Small had remained at his cottage most
by that party in national convention as- of the year. The cottage stood on the
sembled. We recall with pride the po- large shore about two miles from that
sition taken by Vermont in that conven- village and was the only occupied place
tion which had so large a part in bring- in the vicinity. The tire had gamed con
ing about the nomination of our peerless siderable headway before it was di'cov
leader, Charles Kvans Hughes. ered by villagers at 11 o'clock last night.
Appreciating, as never before, the vir- The loss is $10,000.
tue and power of a united party, we
commend the patriotism of strong, cour
ageous and devoted leaders who have en
rolled themselves once more under our
The couple, who are about 50 years of
age, were burned out in the caiem.
Mass., conflagration, and soon after that
they came to Ossipee and purchased the
HARMONY AT CONCORD.
ELDERLY MONTPELIER MAN.
RELATIVES SUMMONED.
To Bedside of Senator C. S. Page in Rat
land HospitaL
Rutland, Sept. 21. It is understood
that the family of U. S. Senator Carroll
K. Page have been summoned to the bed
side of the senator in the Rutland hos
pital. Senator rape has been in the hos-
iitaj about a werk.
Jeremiah V. Babcock Died This Morning,
Aged Nearly 81.
Jeremiah V. Babcock, an old resident
of Montpelier, died at his home, 2.') Lib
erty street, in that city this morning at
ft o'clock after only a few days' illness
following ptx.r health for a year. The
cause of his death was "gallstones and
heart disease. The funeral will be held
from his late home Sunday afternoon at
3 o'clock, and interment, w ill be in Green
Mount cemetery. Montpelier.
Mr. Babcock was born in Danville in
December. 1 S:5, and came to Montpelier
in 1S.54, since which rear he had re
sided in that place. He was employed
as a clerk in drug store and was at
Republicans Had One Little Tiff Over
Floyd.
Concord, X. H., Sept. 29. A short and
sharp platform was adopted at the Re
publican state convention here yesterday,
proclaiming that the reunion of the ele
ments of the party is now complete in
Xew Hampshire.
The truth of this statement was borne
out by the presence in the convention of
many who were conspicuous in the Bass
and Churchill insurgent movements and
several prominent Bull Moosers.
Mr. Hughes expressions on all the is
sues or the campaign were tuny en
dorsed and in a storm of applause a plat
form plank was ratilied congratulating
the country on the assured election of
Hughes and Fairbanks.
The credentials committee reported 605
delegates present out of a possible 814.
This was by far the largest attendance
at a state convention in recent vcars.
and the party leaders pointed as an evi
dence of gratifying intere-'t to the pres
ence of .ino or more spectators from out
side the citv. j
Col. John H. Bartlett of Portsmouth ,
was elected chairman or tne convention.
His address dealt at length with the i
binders of the national administration.
and his arraignment of Pres. Wilson and
his advisers was applauded to the ut
most. His plea for a wage protecting
tariff met the approval of the. convention
and the adherence, of the delegates to Re
publican tariff principles was emphasized
later in the resolutions adopted.
The candidate for governor. Henry TV.
Keyes of Haverhill, is free from plege
of "anf kind, according to his statement
addressing the convention. He said: "I
mane no promises in me miiarv i-m-paign
and s)all make none in the elec
tion contest, except that if I am the peo.
pie's choice. I shall devote all my time,
thoughts and energy to the welfare of
the state."
One-minute speeches were delivered bv
Congressmen Cyrus A. Sullowav and Ed
ward H. Wason. both of whom were
greeted with prolonged cheering.
Karlv in the day three or four dele-
gate from Hillsborough county said they
were opposed to the choice of former
Gov. Charles M. Floyd of Manchester for
banner, and we urge all Republicans to property on the lake shore.
supreme and victorious effort under the
leadership of men like Iheodore Roose
velt, William H. Taft and Charles Evans
Hughes.
We recognize the fact that agricul
ture is the predominating industry of
our commonwealth and the chief source
of our material prosperity. We believe
that nowhere in the L'nited States are
there greater agricultural opportunities
than in Vermont, and that our citizens
should be encouraged to remain upon
the farms of our state and that all meas
ures looking to the upbuilding ot agri
culture, both in method and practical
results, should commend themselves to
the favorable consideration of the general
assembly and that the teaching of practi
The local agent of a life insurance com
pany to-day made it known that in Jan
uary last he wrote a joint policy on the
lives of Mr. and Mrs. Small for $20,000.
Before his arrival from Boston this morn
ing Small offered $1,000 reward for in
formation as to his wife's slayer.
GEORGE HOLLISTER DEAD.
Marshfield Man Had Been 111 for a Long
Time.
Plainfield, Sept. - 20. George K. Hoi-
lister, one of the best known and high
ly respected citizens of Marshfield, died
Thursday evening at 11 o'clock at his
..u t.i i . j .:i.u 'v " ..... s
cai agriculture snouiu ue prowcuieu -in. bra fij?ht apaiRt fatal illness. The fu
vigor and efficiency. neral will be held from the home at 1 : 30
lioou roaos are essential ana necessary
for the highest development of our state
m all its phases, and the proper ex
penditure of our money for better high
ways means new and higher attainments
in all walks ot me. and tne extension
of highway improvement to rural com
munities will enhance the value of our
hill farms and add ple&srrre and profit
to a laree rural population. W e believe
in the continuance of the present high
o'clock on Monday, Rev. Arthur TV. Hew
itt officiating. The burial will be in the
family grounds on Hollister hill, and the
Odd Fellows will perform the rites of
their order at. the grave.
George E. Hollister was born March
7, 185(1, in his late home on the farm
which has been in the Hollister family
for more than a hundred years, and
where four generations of the family
have lived, George being the last male
way policy with such improvements as dMcendant'of thjg branch of the family,
one time encased in business under the
name of Rabeoek Cutler. Hi last ac- j presidential elector and a meeting of the
tive work was in the store of Collins ! delegates from this coutifr was quickly
Blakelv. He a a Mason and a mem-'called to iron out the difference. A a
her of Bethany church, being creatlv in-;renlt of this, Mr. Floyd was formally
terested in Sunday school work.
He leave hi wife: one brother, Har
vey M. Bahrok of Boston; an I a half-
sister, Mr. ,1. A. 'adlorK of St. -lohns-burr.
Mr. Karl Sawrer of r.arre
brought up in the family of Mr. ana Mrs.
Babcock, beln a niece.
endrcd. and when hia name was pre
sented to the convention there was po
opposition. "
The other nominee for electors are
Col. B. Ijeighton of Dublin. George A.
Carpenter of Wolfeboro and William R-r-rown
of Berlin.
ill be commensurate with our chang
in.g conditions and the best methods of
road construction, and recommend the
expenditure of a reasonable part of the
highway money on the so-called bacK
roads under state supervision.
It is imperative that the citizens of
our state receive best possible educa
tional advantages and that equal oppor
tunities for the securing of an educa
tion be given to all. Believing in thia
principle and that wherever practicable
the rural school should be restored, we
favor the continuance and extension of
our present educational system so that
the same, may be brought to the highest
possible point of efficiency.
We call attention to the marked in
dustrial progress already achieved by
Vermont under successive Republican ad
ministrations, and we declare lor the con
servation of our t-orests and water pow
ers and for the continuation of the cam
paign of publicity that has been so ef
fectively carried on. j
We favor the immediate repeal of the j
so-called Perry act.
We believe that the present primary
law should be given a fair trial with
such amendments thereto as the expe
rience of the last primary electk-n seems
to warrant.
We favor the enlargement and exten
sion of our workmen's compensation act.
We believe in the consolidation rather
than in the creation of commissions, and
that the conduct of the public business
should be thoroughly efficient and as
economical as will be in keeping with
the dignity of the state, and that the
state should enlarge in no new endeav
or until it has adequately provided for
those which it has already undertaken.
Having endorsed the platform promul
gated by the Republican national con
vention, we do not deem it necessary or
wise to repeat herein the principles
therein set forth. We believe that a
promise made should be kept and to that
end we urge that our candidates for of
fice at the coming election shall carry
out faithfully each and every recommen
dation herein made insofar as they may
have power and authority so to do. .T
loyal Republicans we pledge our support
to all candidates nominated by the party
in state and nation and we mil our party!
to the standard, confident that the re-tpon-e
will Le such to insure the tri-
itmph of the just prim iple lor e h. oh
v-e contend in btth state and nation.
an only brother having aiea some years
ago. Mr. Hollister was married Febru
ary 14, 1SS3, to SIiss Mary tnow, and
tvo children were born to them, Misses
Edith and Carrie.
Mr. Hollister was a member of Ar
cadia lodge, I. 0. O. F.; of the Rebekah
and Halcyon encampment, and had for
merly been active in the grange. He
represented Marshfield in the legislature
Of 1S9S.
He waa a very kindly man and a friend
to everybody and his loss will be most
keenly felt bv the entire community.
MILNE WARK.
Marriage Took Place at Presbyterian
Manse Last Evening.
A quiet wedding was solemnized at
the Presbyterian manse on Wellington
street last evening at 8 o'clock when
Miss Eunice Wark, daughter of the late
William TVark of South Barre, was mar
ried to Alexander A. Milne, ir.. s-on of
Mr. and Mrs. Alexander Milne of 14
Xichol street, lirido and groom were
unattended and only the immediate rela
tives witnessed the ceremony, which wns
performed bv Rev. Edgar C'rossland. Mr.
and Mrs. Milne left at !":30 o'clock for a
wedding trip to RosWn and vicinity.
They will make their home in Sioutn
Barre.
FELL FROM A TREE.
William Morgan, Aged 65, Had Several
Ribs Broken.
William Morgan fell from a tree while
working on the Blanclard property on
Barre street. Montpel'er. this morning
and had several ribs fractured, and he
may have sustained internal injuries.
He Vis engaged in trimming the tree and
was about 1.1 feet from the ground. He
was taken to his home at To Main street,
where a phy-iian was called, and it is
likely that the patient will be takeu t'
11, -h inn hospital as he has no relatives in
Montelier. He is a Unit 65 years old.
Chimney Blaze on Howard Street.
The fire truck answered a still alsim
early this afternoon for a chimney fire
in the iiou-e on Howard street occupie!
by Mrs. F. Paolaro. The blare was aou
tincuiihed with little dm"
