NEW MEXICO STATE RECORD
$1.50 A YEAR.
SANTA FE NEW MEXICO, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1916.
NUMBER 105
MARRQN & WOOD
SUSPENDED BY
SUPREME COURT
dant a certain alleged release, which
was in words and figures as fol
lows :
"Albuquerque, New Mexico,
"Nov. 1st, 191.).
"Whereas, by article 8, of the con
tract between the Mevers company.
Inc., of Albuquerque, New Mexico andj
myself, dated January 1st, 1912, said
: company is required t0 make a cer
tain payment to me in the matter of
r.. ,,,rmw-r Alex D. Shaw & Co., of New York,
DECISION BY JUDGES HANNA on the happening of certain events
PARKER AND NEBLETTi 'Now, therefore, in consideration
UIPFrinirlfi RfiTH FOR of t,H-' s,,m of onu !n,lar an) other
iuartnjuiiiiu oum run(Vall,.ll)!e Cfinsi,icratios to me iM
ONE YEAR I hand, receipt of which is hereby ac-
j knowlcdged, I hereby release said
Mil Hill! TV to me of the sum of $5088 or any
part thereof mentioned in said ar
ticle 8 as a credit to said Alex I).
Shaw & Co.
'KRNF.ST MF.YF.I'S."
that saiil respondent Francis K.
l.ood then and there, alleged and
'! pretended to the court that tlin said
GOTS ' r,''i :ise constituted valid and admis-
ishih' evidence ot ir.e payment and
cause of action up-
uuntTPTIT HV,un wnicn inc planum had nrouglit
iiKUUuni ot spit jn sai(, cfinrt. (hat sa.d re
BAR ASSOCIATION AND AT- !on! Franc's K Wood moved ami
lequesieu me conn to instruct tnc
jury that said release constitutd a
valid and sufficient defense on be
half of the defendant in said cause,
and that he thereby caused the dis
trict judge then presiding in said
cause to instruct the jury, which
iury, under the instructions of the
court, returned a verdict finding the
issues for the defendant, that in
truth and in fact the said release
THE AUTOMATIC LAND SELECTOR
ON THREE CHARGES
LENGTHY OPINION
INTO UETAIL UJN AU-j discharge of the
CUSATIONS
TORNEY GENERAL
The state supreme court in a un
animous opinion, written by Associ
ate Justice U. II. Manna, suspended
from practice in the state courts for
a term of one year State Treasurer
O. N. Marron and his law partner-
Francis F.. Wood, for reasons ap
parent from the syaltabus by the!-1 not a valid and lawful re'ease.
court, the proceeding being one for
disbarment upon an accusation con
tainting nine specifications. This
follows upon suspension from the
federal court practice after hearing
before the late Judge W. H. Pope.
The syllubus and opinion of the court
follows :
SyMabui by the Court
1. An attorney at law, having in
It is posscssiiu a copy or duplicate of
an original contact, the contents of
which are material to the determina
tion of the issues in case, who con
ceals the same and replies, when call
ed upon by opposing counsel to pro
duce it, that the contract was not in
his possession or custody or under
his control, when, as a matter of fact
the said contract is at that time
where it has been concealed by him,
is guilty of unprofessional conduct
and subject to a reprimand, there
fore. 2. An attorney at law who offers
in evidence on behalf of his client
an alleged release as constituting!
vaiid and admissable evidence of pay
ment and discharge of the cause of
lischarge or satisfaction of the said
defendant from liability to the said
F.rnest Meyers, and that the said
respondent Francis F. Wood then
and there well knew the same,
procurement of Release
It appears from the evidence that
the said release was procured from
the plaintiff, Frnest Meyers, for the
nurpo.se of enabling the firm of Alex
D. Shaw & Co., of New York City to
recover from the Meyers company
the sum of $501.88 which had been
placed with the defendant, the Mey
ers company, by the said Ertst
Mevers as security against possible
liability upon a merchandise account
at that time unsettled and disputed.
At the time the said release was
introduced in evidence it appears
from the proofs that the said res
pondent Francis E. Wood was thor
oughly familiar with all of the facts
and circumstances surrounding the
execution and delivery of the said
release, and knew that the same had
never been delivered to the Meyers
ccmpany except for the purpose
hereinbefore stated . He also ktiew
, J Wv. ' 'i?i V ; . V OBLIGED p, m,..;
"""yH ; r wAixZU " r-
Tuesday
! K. 1!. Sprinkle, J. J. Murdick, G. P..
McDonald, C. L. llendrickson, A. J.
(ireeu, J. W. I.angford, V. Pud I,
:K O. Akin, J; J. W. Akin, and V. V. .
! Guilders.
Wednesday
1 S. . Wells. Jo,- M. Wells. II. ('.
.Greer. 2; (.. ('. Ilu'itlcv. J. 11 (iray,
P. A. Sui'tun, '; I K. (''I. oat, '; J. II.
Jester, and J. K. Marsh, I
I lie price paid ulie.it during
the past few days was $1.50. Mi'.
i!i;-day ha3 two cars ready f..r ship-!
nient, but as the market was off tl-is j
week the best offer he had was $1.-10;
t o. b. 'i iii nun ari. As lie paid as j
high as SI a,:; for soim. of the wheat'
he could ii ' turn it loose at that fig-,
Mire. If the eealr was finished
STATE FAIR
DRAWS LARGE
ATTENDANCE
THURSDAY WAS THE BIG
DAY A FINE PROGRAM OF
ATTRACTIVE FEATURES
.they t
ad am:
'Id hove tin- wheat for the
1 i
BIG IRRIGATION DAM
IN CIMARRON CANON
NOW BEING BUILT
GOOD KUSIG AND
MUCH RACING
LIVE STOCK EXHIBIT LED
BY CHAVES COUNTY,
WHOSE CATTLEMEN AND
BIG HOG FARMERS WERE
THERE WITH THE GOODS.
Fair opened
Monday on
at Alhu-schedule
OR THE STATE LAND TWINS
Kalor.. . M Sept. .." . . . : V:
o tinofiiei.il hut thoifiir.-hlv relial'.Ie
iiiforiuatiiii, the largest irriyationi
project ever l.iunelied in northern i
New Mexico has bceoiiic a certainty,
.during the j.asi few il,lvs with tliei
.eoinpletioii of prelitninarv ar- !
'rangments for tin- liiiililiie,' of d.. i
I'.a.L'le iest dam ill Cimarron canon1
jhy the Cimarron Valley Land com-1
pany, says the Katon Kamre. Mi- Tin- Slate
terial is now passing through Katon nuerqne on
;liv rail en route to I te Park for its i time
jeonstruction, and the supervising en-1 The openinft attraction was the
jKineer is already on the uroiin.1 com-! joint political debate between Jude
.pletuiK his plans lor the .starting of ; "Woodmansee, of Ohio, representing
IconstriHtion work at an early date. 'he republicans, and A. A.Jones, rcp
I I hose familiar with the propose,! ' resent itiK the democrats,
site for the l.i:,n reservoir rea'ize the; Most of the comities in the state
immensity of the undertaking and I were represented by' fine a-ricnltural
the potential possibilities of the dam 'exhibits and manv of 'hem, particu
lar impoundiiifr within the walls of larlv those in the eastern part of
ithe canon and the wide bottoms of f the' state, made a splendid showing
the low er Moreno valley a veritable j with livestock of every kind.
j iiMMiiiiciiii i.ikv several inues in icukuii
land covering between four and five
thousand acres of Moreno vallei
.sm U.a A;;n, , 01 mat iiiiiv iiiai a i cdssiKiiniciii ui
moves to instruct the jury that said J'10 sa. claim had been crecuted by
release constitutes a valid and suf
ficient defense on behalf of his client.
when in truth an dm fact the said
release was not a valid and law
ful release, discharge or satisfaction
of the claim, all of which wis then
well known to the attorney, is guil
ty of unprofessional conduct in the
practice of intentional deceit of the
trial court before whom the cause
was then pending, and by reason of
COLD SHOULDER
AT CARRIZOZO
PEOPLE OF GOVERNOR'S
HOME TOWN REFUSED TO
TURN OUT TO HEAR
OTERO, DE BA0A AND MO
DONALD SPEECHES
the said Alex P. Shaw & Co., to the
said Ernest Meyers, which was in
tended to suepresedc and cancel the
said alleged release.
In consideration of all the facts
and circumstances in regard to this
specification, the court finds that the
said Francis E. Wood in so introduc
ing in eviilenre the said release, was
ntiiltv o f deliberate and intentional ' children in the
decent of the district indee before I than 70 voters
tercst and strength to the work, leav
ing with them 1014 Bibles and Tes
taments and $500.36 in Christian lit
erature, besides thousands of pages
of tracts.
In meetings held In connection
with the work, 501 sermons and ad
dresses have been delivered and 1S8
conversions reportd from this work.
Uhis, society, in this county two
years ago by the organization of
Sunday schools openeff up two old
vacant and abandoned churches,
discontinued.
where the work had long since been
The missionary recently was called
uo by phone and asked to go up 35
miles into the country and organize
aSunday school, lie rode the dis
tance the next day on a load of lum
ber which was to seal and prepare
In the L building in which to meet, and in
REPUBLICANS ARE
WARMING UP IN
GRANT COUNTY
The poultry exhibits also attracted
a great deal of attention, some beau-
(,,. i.1Mj ,,,, ,t, - : t 1 1 ii i specimens ncing snown, me
f:ij ihcalthy condition of which goes to
-i vt i I ;
The estimates call for a solid con
crete dath 110 feet in height, closing
jthe narrow gap between the walls of
I the canon, which come within less
than one hundred feet of meeting at
this point. The two opposite pillars
of natural masonry are called the
Eagle Xcst Rocks because of the nu
merous aeries of eagles upon their
sis..i.L-t . Tl. Ar
l,rri,,J.si 'HI Mill II lilt 1.IOSIIIII HI . . i ! I
this gap will make it necessary to di-1 tra,ncd' from wh,ch t0
vert the main highway up McEvoyl The boys' and girls'
canon to the right of the reservoir
site over the route formerly taken bv
Taos freighters in earlier days. The
rairoad xtension survey from lit
sho wthat New Mexico has in pros
pect a large industry in this line,
when it is undertaken with more de
termination. The state educational institutions
made fine and attractive exhibitions,
particularly the Colleg of Agricul
ture, which always makes a good
showing of its work having always
a fine body of students excellently
draw.
camps were
another feature and the youngster
certainly enjoyed themsekes, both
day and night to the limit.
Plenty of Indians and Indian per-
Carrizozo. N. M.. Sent. 24.
governor':, own home town last night I order that the building be in read
Governor McDonald, E. C. de uaca.jness for Sunday, spent two days n
democratic candidate for governor, ! carpenter work, preaching and b !'
and M. A. Otero, who is running for ling meetings at night at the honm.
state auditor on tnc democratic iick- , tins way tne Sunday serv ces we, e , . .. was" oreanize.!
300 JOIN CLUB IN ONE NIGHT
EXPECT TO ELECT RE-
rufiUuaflO inia auut n ark to 1 aos follows tlie graile up j formances were on the program,
nrATTAU Aurn pfkPTTT All 'eft-hand canyon to the south which were of interest and helped to
WAlilUJt rurumuvijf the r(,S(rvoir site spice the occasion for visitors from
STATE CANDIDATE " nature should continue prodigal ; sections of the state and from out
et, spoke to less than Ua people at a well advertised, and the school wa
political meeting. There were Ml nicely begun with about forty mem
audience anil less hers, one lumily driving tvelvr tin e
the applause was down the river.
with snows and rainfall over the of the state, wdio were not familiar
headwaters of the Cimarron, even J with our Indians and their interest-
the immense proportions of the bigiing cost mes, customs and recrca
Silver City, N. M., Sept 25 At one .reservoir, when completed, will he'tions
of" the lar:-st political gatherings taxed to accommodate th etremeii-! The social functions rv.-ry evening
ever held ill Grant lounty a youngd ius flow that passes through the Were of much intere-t . old" provided
.ioreno vaney into ine Cimarron can- e,,tn,in , for n i,w in... num.
from all parts
said conduct is ini.ioct to suspension ! V '"T f ."" was then be-th,n , and en thusia sin .hacking. Tlie late Judge Wn, I). Pope was j tntim,,,, tr, the. end,. Among tbc!CIRLS. BAND GETS
(mm nrirllri ii. ll,n I, '"g "earn, HTIU lll.ll lOS LUIIUllt.1 I v 1 - im HHIIDI.IIV
from practice in the courts
3. Attorneys at law. accepting em
n;ition of such employment, is used I
to secure the employment of such at-!
tornevs by the person in such adverse j
relations to the former client, de
serving of suspension from practice
before the bar in the courts of this
state
Opinion of the Court
There are nine specifications in the
accusation filed against the respon
dents. The first specification is to
the effect that in a certain civil ac
tion pending in the district court of
Bernalillo county said respondent.
nig lieanl, ami that lus conduct re- "l mnl" '" k." "w. tne Honorary vice-president oi H e I1,.,,mln,.,.i ,,.. dent l ed with th
tiuircs punishment. jat the cause ot the cool reception , American Sunday School Union for cu, are y. I). Murray, one of the
plovment from one client and n the 1 is there ore considered ornere. k ..... . i , . ... - ",';evv .iicxu.i, ami lyss ,o , ne .-o- ,,,.,.,., repul. lean, ol tic state
course of such relation, caining in- J b'. !,e co,.,r tb SJ'1' w ome where he I is ahV.v i , C"'y ' ,fl'"- V"y k''''"Iy i ''y , ' " hc acknowledged head of the
formation adverse tn the interests of Francis R. Wood he, and he is here- Home where lie has .ilwjjs m- ccrs anj missionaries, who unite in rclll,l can i.arty in Giant county,
iiiriiidiion aaviisc to ine interests ot , , . r c. .;.... I loved nonularitv anmnt iirmi r of ... ... .,,i;... .. u,. p..,,.. ,i tl : ', ... .. . r n i..
such client, which, after the termi- i l'".?1"'"-""" V""1 '"""'"i: ' '..,-' u .......1 f...- J - ' K ' . 1 . V. " i an" V- l."x- u. "' :'
in tne courts oi incw Mexico as an"" " ' sympaiuy aim prayr in hit uoui m sented to he the repiililiean candi-
atlorney at law for and during the f"'1". that grave directions to de : ,0, row, in the h.s .; of this faithful, (iaU, for ,,(. senate from (irant conn-
feriod of one vcar from the date!'5-" as pariy s candiiiaic i r ; fearless man of God. ilv ;UHi Mr. C,,x will he endidat
ttiereot. Ss's.in. .....n .... . n.t
The third specification in the ac- "cas with which McDonald and his
cosation was dismissed. associates were treated. Otero a'so
The fourth specification of the ac-l's unpopular here because of Ins re
cusation was dismissed. !cord w,llie Rovcrnor of the territory.
The fifth specification under the
here with a membership ol JtW. vV.V". i n'ierueaiii mis nuge waier , ,rr of ladv visitors
11. Nehlett was elected pTeident . The s'"' age lies a tallow tract oi the fin- nf the southwest.
meeting was in session iron. 8 o clock , est tanning land , the southwest. , T,u, or,,,.r ,- r.roreSon
until 11 O Clock, and the enthusiasm ,ot- tl. various ..mani -r, t i m-. and in.
tit ut ion s that took part in the ra-
S WELL NEW UNIFORMS rade will sen.- in a oieast,,,. to give
some idea of tin- uietrorinlitan nature
I'he Clovis Ladies' Hand is about of the attendance and participants
the affair:
charges presented was dismissed.
The sixth specification of the
charges against the respondents was
dismissed..
The seenth charge as incorporat-
T- . n ... . . . . . 1 ' t ill uic nil I i.a i mil ui .i,.m-j
Irancis I'.. Wood, having then and ,;.... u ;c u,f
there in his possession a certain copy tjme jn t,,c niontll of jlllv ,o,0i thc
or duplicate of an original contract, j s.,j,, 0wen N Marron and Francis
the contents and purport of which ;E Wooil acccrted cmplovment from
were material to the determination ! OIlc Petra G (;arci;i Q fthc city o
of the issues m said cause, concealed . Alh::qucrnrc. New Mexico, in conic-
SaT 'lpn;',t l a 'letter in the !noction with thc ;uminiftration of
r f.ee of the clerk of said court and t!ie C5tate of one Elias G. Garcia,
when, afterw ards he was requested ,CCcased. the son of the said Tetra
,.r im inu n inc uppusiic parry f; Garcia, and that the course of
to produce his said copy of said con- saM employment and dnrino the con
tract, he replied in substance that tjIlllance of tlicir relation as attor
Ihe contract was not in his pos- j n ovs and ciient , ,le faid Marron and
sesion or custody or under his con- VVood were informed of the exis
ted, when as a matter of fact the .. f , 0c;ki ..;, .Imi h
SUNDAY SCHOOL
UNION DID BIG
WORK LAST YEAR
TWITCHELL AND
RENEHAN ORGANIZE
'from Ihe senatorial district coinpri.s
i.o' Grant and l.una counties. These
said contract was at that time re
maining where it had been conccal
beneath a blotter in the office
of the c!erk of the district court.
It is contended by the respondent.
said estate of Elias G. Garcia on
the part of a woman then residing in
Salt Lake City, Ctah, which informa
tion it is alleged was divulged to the
attorneys in question for the purpose
T- n nr . . . ; dlivriit-ys ill iiucsiion leii inc pin
Francis E. Wood, that this copy of f enab.jnK thein t meet such claim
the contract was not material to the
issues in said cause, and that there
fore his conduct was not subject to
criticism. It is urped by the attorney
peneral. however, that regardless of
the materiality of the said document
in the trial of the issues in said cause,
the conduct of the said respondent.
Francis E. Wood, was reprehensible
'to the same degree as if the docum
ent were material and necessary to
the trial of the issues in said cause.
With this contention we fully asree.
The conduct of the said respondent
in concealing the paper from and
deceiving the court and opposite
counsel bv statements borderinc up
on, if not amounting to actual f-Isc-
Tiood. is certainly unhecon:ng a i
member of the legal profession. !
The court therefore fnds that said
rrancis K. wood in tne particulars
hereinbefore mentioned has been
Ktijlty of unprofessional conduct re
ouiring punishment at the hands of
the court.
It is. therefore, considered, order
ed and adjudged by the court here
that Francis E. Wood, by reason of
his aid conduct, is deserving of the
renrimand of this court.
The second specification of the ac
cusation is to the effect that the re
spondent Francis E. Wood, while en
Raged as counsel for, the defendant
Jit the trial of a certain cause before
the district court of Bernalillo coun
ty tn which Ernest Meyers was
plaintiff and the Meyers comnany.
incorporated, was defendant offered
?n evidence on behalf of the defen-
sbotild the same subsequently arise
that thereafter thc employment of
said Matron and Wood was termin
ated by the said Petra G. Garcia,
subsequent to which it is alleged
that Owen N. Marron, on behalf of
the firm of Marron & Wood, wrote
a letter to an attorney in Salt Lake
City, Utah, requesting him to put
in a Salt Lake City paper an ad
vertisement asking Mrs. Elias Gar
cia, the alleged common-law wife of
said Elias G. Garcia, deceased, to call
at the office of said attorney, who
had something of importance to
communicate to her; that as a re
sult of said advertisement the wo
man in question appeared at the at
torney's office in Salt Lnke City and
subsequently employed the said Mar-
X: Wood to bring suit in behalf
of her chi'd which was alleged to
be the child of Elias G. Garcia.
"The gist of this charee is that the
said firm of Marron & Wood, on in
formation imparted to them in con
nection with their employment by
said Petra G. Garcia, failed to main
iaim inviolate the confidence 'aipd
preserve the secrets of their client,
and by their conduct in stirring tip
litigation, soliciting and accenting
employment in the manner afore-,
said, violated their duties as attor-neys-at-law
and members of the bar
of this court. i
Newspaper Publication
. ."The ein-Mh snecification of the
charges against the respondents deals
A. L. FALES, OF R0SWELL,
STATE MISSIONARY FORj
NEW MEXICO GIVES !
STATE RECORD SPECIAL!
INTERVIEW I
. -i. i.i: ...i tiu'c -..ir
ALBUQUERQUE CLUB rzi"nx,S
Grant enmity is expected to elect all
Ithe republican candidates. V. 15.
'Walton is personally popular in
THREE HUNDRED REPUBLI- Grant county, but the sentiment for
CANS JOIN MOVEMENT:?,,-';
WHICH IS MAKING RAPID,'10' iM 1,0 ''''f"''1-
ss ovEE THK:TUCJMCAIi BYS
The Hughes-Fairbanks- Club of the:
Duke city nf which t ity Clerk Thos.
I Hughes of that city i' president, w.'Si
Thc missionaries of the American j given a great boost last Friday cve-
Sunday School Union, ll in number, j nine by a couple of Santa Fe men !
during the past fiscal year oranied who went down to assist Col. Twit-i
for the first time 1413 Sunday Iche'l. the state president, and Attor-,
schools, operating in every state ofinev Isenchan.
the Union but one, and reorganized! The Albuquerque Journal had Ihe
722 others; 71,lf0 teachers and schol-1 following to say regarding the spe.ik
ars were enrolled in these schools. er .
They afterward made 14.75.? visits From the address of Col. K. E.
to these and other needy schools to Twifchell delivered last night at the
give them further aid, besides mak- republican rally, it could be seen that
intC 2fK,450 visits to the homes of theMV. Twitchell the historian and M.r.
people. "wiichell the politician could not lie
They distributed during the vear, 'separated even for campaign nnrpos-
bv sale and gift. 62.321 Bibles. Ncw!es. Co!oncl Twitchcll's preliminary
Test?ments. and the Gospels of lohn, remarks had to do with thc raily
the classiest musical attraction in the
s":ubvcsf. The new uniforms for
the band arrived Friday, and Satur
day afternoon the nirls nave a con
celt in front of the liexall drug
store, 'i'he music drew a big crowd.
The new uniforms are blue with
"s- - it in,, t r i ii i in t ii . lit. ii'i I. nr.. i. i,,i i.
men are highly respected in their , ,.irv s( vlp decorated wit h white potn
home county, and will .end great pons The ,)alK, IIlak(.s swtI1 a1.
strength to the republican ticket. It ,,t.ar.-,nre, and it is needless t sa
was stated at the meeting last night jt vviI) makl. a ,it in ix.,)Swt. ,lis
by wise political scrs that Grant w.,.k wllcru j,. arc paing at
I11II1V Will ,e ,1 Miijsi.iiiin.i iiii.j".- , 1(l t-,,r
'1 he Clovis Ladies' Hand is a fine
adeertiserMent for the city and di
rector Croft deserves credit for or
gsiniziny, such a clever musical ag
gregation. It may he of interest to
the people of Clovis to know that
the cost of tlr1 new uniforms, whi' h
includes the hats, was more than
$7(.
Clovis challenges any town or citv
in the Cnit'-d Stales to show a !;,.gir
nr heMer-cquippcd ladies' band than
the one here.
So far as we are able to team from
the musicril journals, there i but e-ee
in ihe 1'ni'ed S'.ales that ran equal
it. and that is the ladies' hand in
Wclliimtoii. Kansas, with 2& piece.,
the same number as the Clovis hand
3000 BUSHELS WHEAT
IN FIVE DAYS
WANT A GAME WARDEN.
I NOT A POLITICIAN
8,565 religious books, valued at f4,-
and 2,002,085 religion periodicals;
170. were distributed gratuitously to
ministerial students and to Suiiday
School workers.
This combined force on their va
rious fields delivered 23,812 sermons
and addresses in the prosecution of
the workr"and the first fruits of the
year's work are 69 church organiza
tions, 29 church buildings with S.441
professed conversions.
The national field is divided into
ten districts, New Mexico being a
part- of the new Rocky Mountain
district reorganized in June, compris
ing the states of WyomingL Ctah.
Colorado, New Mexico, andArizona.
New Mexico
A. L. Fales of Roswell, state mis
sionary of the work of the American
Sunday-school tinio nfor New Mex
ico, reoorts the ornniration and re
organization of 105 Sunday schools
in the state by this society dnnng
the past five years. Tn these schools
312 teachers have been enlisted in
giving Bible instruction to 4780 schol
ars enrolled. Aid was given also in
with the same case as the specifica-l95 visits to these and other schools
(Continued on page seven) and in 7368 family visits to give in
EASTERN NEW MEXICO IS
MAKING GREAT SUCCESS
l
('that the ew Mcxief) ( i.mie
tcctive association, consisting of a
, thousand or more representative i
OF WHEAT RAISING AND sportsmen and game cr.nservers oil
,the slate, be allowed to submit the,
IS PLANTING BIG ACRE-;namc of a proper and qualified man
1 fur tti4 nffien nf &lfi1. ,r:im.. ..fr.l..,. .
First D:viion.
Police
Marsh:,! and ctnff
Alhiioneroue P.an.l
(iiand Armv of the hVnublic
Officers of Sf'te F: ir
h'ire Depart "tent
P.ernali'ln Cnnniv Commissioners
Mayor Westerfield and City Council
Second Division
Vlifpirrme l"'li'Mi s,.,f)0j fjand
Indian el-ool Cadets
Trolian s;rj)(10i p.
t'nifed Strifes Forest Service
Women's l.f'!i.f Corns
Yrun;r Men's Ctir'spau ssociati'"irt
Third Division
N'en- Meico I'ni-r'-itv Hand
N'ew es.ico 1'ni-ersitv Marching
.'ereerM ion
Rovnl .-;-t,!.o.-s Te". Flo,.,!.'
Women's ("l-r'sfi-in Ten perance
Coo.,
'onn n's Sio'fi-ae T1splay
Wo, .'m, ,i of tl-e VVrld
P.erievfdc iit oriet r s
Fourth Divinion
Mi "rod Industrial School
Women's p. n. fi! 1 ea:;ue
School Fhihit
Fifth Divi-ein
P-i !do P.oniio I'at d
1 alior Oreaiiiations
De-r,rater! nt. eno'iiles
Livestock F.v'iitiit
historv of New Mexico, hginning
yifVi thi Snanili rulp th lpvi-nnf
is the proposition being put up to the
republican and democratic candidates;
for governor by thc executive com-;
Special to State Record. P""1 f. , .
Tncnmcari. N. M.. Sept. 25.-This'..A mcn!or',: ' HcinK drafted set-;
..... ...; k. ..s.u.l,ot r.i ,1""? I ort n tnc tact mat the warden
dominion, and fmally the American i .hat market. Last week about 4,!shou,d be a properly equipped man;
occupation, an., me speaKer emp.M- , d marketed here from thel"' ,, , !"' "". - "M
lh 'ffj'L1,1 1 Plains, but this week the total num- tTJ0. ,
f-"' n. .in .... .1 . -. r of oads amouts to 61. better ; ,' " ' ,.' y .
tancc of the present citizens of t:ie..i., ,i,, .!,..., j ki.cti.ic -..'Tanif conservation. It is understood i
man inrce tnuusidiiii iiuaiicisi wt-it ., . t, . , .
sold t th rl.ir.ht Elevator and the !' M V.r. r.nrsnm basa'ready pledged ,
a-U- .Sa tiloo . -,.i, tnr:"me" atrree to thc plan anil Mr '
l,IM1" .s.v..y ,,s ... ..s.. .... . . o. -,.,. ,t , ,.. i .:.: i
state
Colonel Twitchcll's principal
tad- on the administration was d.-ltheir product. Many of the farmers ."aca ,s expected to make a
reeled toward the Mexican policy. hmlt ew machin OTOceries ai d ,ar p:o,,,,,c 1 ,u n.,r'"r,n:l1 WI' .
Hr berated tne fact that in .len'mg
with the situation of the southern re-
bought new machinery, groceries ai d
dry goods, and a goodly sum was
point
ni.tslir tli nrpsiHent had declined In'
take into his confidence men from
the border states who were acquaint-
left in Tucutncari.
out the great need of more efficient
administration along this line, with-!
Sixth Division
Hoys' and Oirls flub
l'elai' Merchants
W. H. IP'"ti :md Co
lohn P.envens
C" A Wright riothing Co.
Whitney Hardware Co.
Sevenh D.'vition
Wholesale Merchants
Manufactures
Armour and Co
Ivara hi Farm Co Kvhibit
Eighth Division
Cowboy
Indian AcTregation
Automobiles, ot Decorated
Patrick P"d Frnurisco
Ninth and Tenth DWiiont
Motorcycle C'uh
Pretiaredness Cltdi
Preparedness Display
lout rpoar.l t.i nr.tilir- !., .nt
Friday inf keeping the ioh so far as possible
those hringing in wneat tins week .clear out ot politics.
Will Tech Snih.
ed with the temperament and th were E. R. Cox -three loads. J. W. At a meeting of the executive com-! Miss Auroro R. I.oci ro. head
of
lanniap-e of the citiens of Mexico. iKelsav. W. C. Montgomery. 2: J. G mittee of the Santa Fe Came Pro- the department of Spanish in the
Colonel Twitchell referred to the I Mattenbarger, 2: T. E. Hardin, S. A. .tcctive association held recently at ! Tucumcari high school, has had nu-
contempt with which the country's i Wells. 2; Elick Smith, 2; N. L. Caton
foreign policy is said to be regarded
abroad.
A. B. Renehan was the second
speaker introduced by Tom Hughes,
president. Like his predecessor, Mr.
Renehan snoke slightingly of the
Wilson policy in dealing qyith Mex
ico. He referred to outrages com
mitted on the religions orders and
the failure to protect American lives
in the border republic
and D. C Brown.
Saturday
D. D. Branson, T. F. Brown. J. A.
Woodward, A. L. Law. John Brewer,
2: Will Owen. W. E. Kirk. 2: O. W.
Newton, S. F. Green. 2; J H. Gray.
Me.dy
K. E. Drake. 4: S. R. Weeks, W. J.
Gregg, 2; Wm. Young, W. H. Green
and S. L. Disney.
the office of President C. G. Mar- mcrous repi'ests to orarire a class
dorf. who is also a member of the
state ereci'i"-c rommittee. the resig
nation of Ed. Safford as secretary
because he is unable to be on the ib
was accepted and Adolf Fischer was
elected to fill his place.
Arrangements were mide frit the
receiving of 'arge consignments of
trout fry for local streams exnected
shortly from the bureau of fisheries,
and other matters were discussed.
Spanish for the benefit of those
who are nnahle to attend regularly.
class has been organired for the,
benefit of the teasers in the Tu
cuirlcari schools. This c'ass meets
on Mondav an'' Tb"rdav evenings
of-each week. Miss T.ncerr, proposes
to orsranire a class open t.i all who.
are i"terested. to meet on Tuesday
fid FriHv e'-en'ngs of each week.-
Tucumcari News.
