'IWItoHt! Ibrary
Capital Building -
Published in the Mo
The Oldest Copper Pro
during District in the
State of Arizona.
rend - Clifton District.
Population 15,000
AND HORENCI LEADER
' '-'VOLUME XVIII.
CLIFTON ARIZONA, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 191 6. y
NUMBER 19
The
Copper
Era
SUPERVISORS MAKE
APPLICATION FOR
FOREST ROAD
In Accordance With Rules and Regu
lations Promulgated by Secretary of
Agriculture Greenlee County Board
Proposes Co-operative Plan for Clif-ton-Springerville
Highway.
Following the visit of Supervisor
Dutton and County Engineer Redd to
Albuquerque, during the first week of
September, the first official act look
ing to the co-operative construction of
the Clifton-Springerville highway was
.taken on Wednesday evening of this
week when the members of the Board
of Supervisors, with State Engineer
Cobb present and approving the propo
flition, made application to the Secre
tary of Agriculture, through the office
of the district forester at Albuquer
que, for a portion of the Forestry
road fund available in Arizona daring
1916-17.
So far as known the Board of Super
visors of Greenlee county has sub
mitted the most liberal . co-operative
plan in Arizona and it is the expec
tation that the entire fund available
during the present fiscal year, amount
ing to approximately $60,000 will be
expended on the Clifton-Springerville
highway .
Only two other counties have made
application for a portion of this
fund, Gila and Maricopa, but In no
instance have these counties offered
the financial co-operation that is pro
posed by the Board of Supervisors of
Greenlee county,
The proposition of the Greenlee
County Board of Supervisors is now
in the hands of the District Forester
at Albuquerque, whose duty it. is to
recommend to the Secretary of Agri
culture the most feasible and advan
tageous road building projects in his
, district.
The application presented to the
District . Forester sets out at length
the importance of tne proposed
Springerville-Clif ton Highway . In the
application the attention of the de
partment is called to the fact that
,the largest unbroken, virgin forest in
Arizona lies between Clifton, -and
Sprineerville; that on the southern
boundary of this forest is one of the
largest mining districts in the State
affording a ready market for forest
products, especially mining timbers;
that the building of the Clifton
Springerville Highway will form a
connecting north and south link be
tween the two trans-state east and
west highway systems, and "in con
clusion the application pledges the
taxr.vers of Greenlee county to bear
one half of the cost of construction.
Those present at the meeting of
the Board on Wednesday evening, at
which time the application was form
ally approved included W. T. Witt,
Chairn of the Board; S. F. Awa,lt,
and W. W. Dutton, Members; Lamar
Cobb. State Engineer; J. S. Barlow,
Assistant State Engineer; A. L. Ter-ry.Clerk-
R. R. Webster, W. B. Kel
ly and W. S. Bradfield, representing
the Greenlee County Chamber of
Commerce. Those present felt con
fident that the Greenlee county appli
cation offered inducements to the
Forestry Department greater than
those offered by any other county in
the state and, taking "all things into
consideration, that the Clifton-Springerville
highway would be one of the
first projects undertaken by the For
estry Department in the state.
Forestry Department officials from
Albuquerque, including Messrs. Pow
ell and Reddington, are expected to
reach Greenlee county shortly for the
purpose of looking over the proposed
. routes between Clifton and Springer
ville at which time they will be ac
companied by members of the Board
. of Supervisors and the County En
gineer. The proposition as presented by
the Board of Supervisors to the Sec
retary of Agriculture is as follows:
Clifton, Ariz., Sept. 27, 1916.
The Honorable Secretary of Agricul
ture, Washington, D. C.
Sir:
In compliance with "regulation 3,
Rules and Regulations, Secretary of
Agriculture, under Section 8 of the
Federal Aid Road Act," approved
July 11, 1916, we submit the following
proposal for co-operation with the
United States Forest Service in the
construction of a road in Greenlee
county, Arizona, from Morenci via
Metcalf, through the Apache National
Forest to the northern boundary of
Greenlee county.
(a) This proposal is made by the
Board of Supervisors of Greenlee
County, Arizona, by and under whose
authority all county funds raised by
direct taxation or bond issue for the
construction and maintenance of
highways are expended. (See letter of
-- Solicitor of the Department of Agri
culture addressed to the United
States Forester, dated July 18, 1916.)
(b) This proposed road will serve
' to connect by the shortest and most
feasible route (Clifton to Springer
ville) the two East and West state
highways. (See accompanying map
of State Highway System of Arizona.)
It will provide the most direct means
of communication between North
eastern Arizona and all of Northern
New Mexico, and Southern Arizona,
where reside four-fifths of the popula
tion of the latter State, representing
three-fourths of the assessed valu
ation. Traversing a country heretofore re
tarded in growth by the absence of
connecting highways, it will serve to
develop a section rich in natural re
sources. For its 2,000,000,000 and
more feet of timber within this coun
ty it will provide access to a market.
It will render accessible large areas
of" agricultural land upon which can
be utilized the waters of Blue and
Eagle Rivers and part of the waters
of Black River. These waters of con
siderable volume now running to
waste will be stored for irrigation,
fluming and the development of elec
trical energy.
Located on the divide between the
Blue and Eagle rivers, this proposed
imiukh
. "".'"o ui.CTiuicuu in iitc-
stock and real estate assessed at very
nearly $1,000,000.00.
The Clifton-Morenci Mining Dis
trict, at the southern terminus of
the road, has 'a population of approxi
mately 16,000 in a radius of 3 1-2 miles
and an assessed valuation of over
$28,000,000.00.' This Mining District
is now using annually 20,000,000 feet,
B. M., of lumber and mining timber,
paying from $9 to $12.50 per m freight
charges.
(c) 1. The proposed road is locate
ed in the northern half of Greenlee
county, Arizona, and, with the excep
tion of eight miles, is entirely within
tin a A no rth A Matinnal Pnroot I RdA fa ft.
Icompanying imap of Greenlee county.)
I 2. From the Town of Morenci it
vuns in a northerly direction up
Chase Creek to the divide between
;tbe Blue and Eagle Rivers, thence
along the divide to the northern
boundary of Greenlee County at a
point approximately seven miles south
; west of the Town of Alpine in Apache
county. It will be approximately
seventy miles in length, and the road ; at GiODe on October 11th and at Clif
gradient should not exceed six perjton on October 12th with Tom Camp
cent. No estimate , has been madeinelj
ot its probable cost.
3. In addition to furnishine a short
connecting link between Northern 30th a'nd at Prescott on October 2nd. U'J'!er. Texas. The ceremony was
and Southern Arizona and New Mex-jTTet)rv D Estabrook who was a can-' performed by Rev. Dr. Hill of tne
ico, it will connect the Clifton-Mo- didate o; the nomination for the presi j Presbyterian church at the home of
renci-Metcalf district with numerous 1 dnc y atrainst Justice Hughes wm the bride s parents, Mr. and Mrs. E.
small communities and ranches on the gddress the Yuma Republican Club onKent m the presence of a few im
water sheds of the San Francisco, , 0ctober 16th, and tbe new Ajo Repub- j mediate relatives and friends At the
fl ue, Eagle and Black rivers. ,lcan club on September 17th. He 1 conclusion of the ceremony the bridal
(d) The County of Greenlee pro-jis one of the best speakers in . theouP'e left for Cloudcroft, N. M.
poses to enter into a co-operative , country j I where the honeymoon was spent
agreement with the Secretary of Agri-. genator Wm E Borah, of Haho, ' among the mountain pines,
culture for the construction of this . r,o-iQ niohoo TncJ Mr. and Mrs. Neill arrived in
-oad from Morenci to the northern
boundary of Greenlee county .with tne
unaerstanaing mai eacn party 10 iueithe presjdent and the greatest pro -
reement is to turnisn nny per ceni
of the total cost of location and con -
struction.
Immediately following the signing
of this agreement, Greenlee County
proposes to take the necessary steps
to begin and complete the " construe-
tirm nf the mad from Morenci to the
Southern boundary of the Apache Na- Monday night at which time officers ed a degree of prominence in the
tional Forest, with the understanding Y.ere eiected and committees were ap-! musical art and music circles of Clif
that the Secretary of Agriculture will pointed. jton wln De Breat,y augmented the
prosecute the construction of the Tne meeting was for the purpose 1 coming season by her presence,
road on the Apache Forest with equal o( organization and aside from this no Mr. Neill has been a resident of
promptness. The location and con- matters of importance were taken up . Clifton for several years and holds a
struction between Morenci and the at tnls time. responsible position with the Arizona
Apache Forest will be done by and Tne offlcerS elected and committees Copper company as auditor. He is
at the expense of Greenlee County, appomted were as follows: a young man of sterling worth and
and the amount expended thereon p Riiey, Chairman; A. L. Gravely, 1 business integrity and is popular
will be considered as a part of the secretary' W. E. Kelly, Treasurer, among his large acquaintance,
fifty per cent to be contributed by Executive Committee: P. Riley,' The Era joins in extending felici
said county toward the aggregate cost B R LanlleaUj joe Deck, J. K. Chil-! tations to the newly weds and with
of the completion of the highway. ton Edwards, A. T. Wilson, J. ! their many friends wish for them a
WTien the Secretary of Agriculture
has expended a similar amount
in
location and construction of
road ' upon the Forest, then
County of Greenlee proposes to enter
into such an arrangement for tne rur-
ther prosecution of the work as may !
be satisfactory to the Secretary of:
Agriculture to complete construction
01 me roau uii iue npatuc i-uicot,
each party to the agreement furnish
I of such location and construction
Greenlee county has an area of
1.900 square miles, with an assessed
valuation of $32,000.000 00 In pro-
portion to area and road mileage, It is!
by far the wealthiest county in Ari-;
zona, its people are in i m "'
construction of permanent highways,
, . r . K4n-l.mova
having twice approved the issuance
of bonds for such purpose. At the
General Election in 1914 it was the
only county in the State that voted
favorably on the proposed State bond
issue of $5,000,000.00. In 1915 they
.'approved by a vote of nearly 7 to 1
it UUUU VI 1 -( w ,w vj .v. - "
(struction, and it is generally conced
ed that Greenlee county has for years
lead all the other counties of the
vi
construe-
Sate in permanent road
1 tion and in economy of cost thereof.
We desire particularly to call the
'attention of the Honorable Secretary
of Agriculture to the following ' facts
: and conditions :
- 1. The largest unbroken, virgin
forest, rich in natural resources, lies
within th houndaries of the Apache
2 On the southern boundary M
ese reservations is one of the larg- j in Clifton today from the north corn
iest mining districts of the state; af- ing across country by the way of Fort
'fording a ready market for all forest j Apache. Mike Rice first came to Clif
products, particularly lumber. jton in 1880 and was looking up old
3 The proposed Morenci-Metcalf 1 time friends here this afternoon.
Snrineerville Highway will be the
North and South connection between
the two trans-state East and West
highways, and will become a strong
link In our State and interstate high
way system.
4. The Board of Supervisors, the
Greenlee County Chamber of Com
merce and the taxpayers of this coun-
ty are ready and willing to cooperate
with the Secretary of Agriculture in
the early construction of this im
portant highway.
5. In this connection, we desire to
state that local parties, notably Ira j Road Law, approved July 16, 1916,
Harper, of Blue, Arizona, R. R. Web-1 contemplating the construction of a
ster, of Clifton and a local company road from Morenci through the
of Clifton citizens are anxiously , Apache National Forest to the north
awaiting the completion of this pro-'ern boundary of .Greenlee county,
posed highway, and figure on supply- 1 Very respectfully,
ine the local mining companies with i LAMAR COBB,
mine timbers and stulls from the State Engineer.
Apache and Datil forest. ! Submitted through the office of the
BOARD OF SUPERVISORS, j District Forester Mr. Paul G. Red
Greenlee County, Arizona in-rtcrj, A'.hrnipr'jue. X M.
REPUBLICANS HOLD MEETING
On last Saturday evening the Re
publican county central committee
met in Clifton with the candidates and
according to all accounts the most en-1
thusiastic meeting ever held In Green- j
lee county by the party was the re- j
sult. Nearly every precinct in the
county was represented and the
meeting abounded in expressions of
confidence in the party candidates and
loyalty to the organization in
coming election.
the j
It is understood that a large
sum ;
waa subscribed for the furtherance of j
tne campaign and arrangements were
completed ror mass meetings to be
held throughout the county. Several
speakers of national prominence have
been engaged to tour the state in
company with Tom Campbell, can
didate for governor, among whom are
Clarence B. Miller of Duluth, Sena
tor Borah of Idaho, and Former Sena
tor Burton of Ohio.
National Speakers Coming to Clifton
To enable Congressman Clarence
B. Miller, of Duluth, Minn., to speak
on the same platform with Tom
Campbell, the published date of Mr
Campbell's meeting at Clifton has
been changed. from October 11th to
October 12th. Mr. Campbell and
..-n ... , . .
congressman Miner win speaK mere
on that day.
Mr. Campbell will speak at Morenci
on October 11th instead of October
12th. No other changes have been
made in Mr. Campbell's schedule
Congressman Miller who is one of
the greatest platform speakers in the
country will speak at Prescott ' with
Judge Kibbey on October 9th; at
Phoenix with Judge Kibbey on the 10;
Former Senator Burton, of Ohio.
5 1. . 11 ath
d Nogales on dates to be an -
nomlCed. James R. Garfield, son of
gressive ieader is booked to speak in
;pnoen5x and Tucson.
DEMOCRATIC MEETING
The riiamnnrsiHr nniint V ofntral COIT1-
niftnn on
H T CosDer j. b. Simms, P. R.
Von Rihhoi- W H Pansintr.
Y. E.
J. V.
Kelly.
Park8 p Rney, F. E. Wi'.lia-s
J.
v nll,ltn, v p. Keilv. O. J. Co'ey.
c E gteVens, W. H. Pansing.
Members Central Committee: P.
Ri Q j Cotey, joe Deck, R. R.
Uhitor M T r.rflHv F. E. WH-
i.cuai.., - ' - - -
liams, S. C. Swift, Clifton; Gordon
r,..i, w t. iswi w w. Pansine.
er:W: U Neel WH.Jansing
A. L. Gravely, Morenci; W. E. Keny,
D -R T.nnnpall. -T V.
.,,, "w Wilkev. Duncan: J. K.
fl- gheldon; J.' H. T. Gosper,
Blue j j Filleman, Eagle; A. T.
Wilson Eagle; p. R. Van Bibber.
finthrievJ. B. Simms. Franklin.
'
.
1 nav nanw
Labor Day Dance
....-j-.. ! v,! i,
there wHlb Ta dance at th TprincTss
Theatre, the proceeds of which will
go toward making up the deficit incur
red on account of the Labor Day Cele
bration. The committee in charge of
the celebration found themselves
short of funds when settlement was
mam; tlUU Lucy aic Lan.ui& mo uiwuo
'of making the shortage good which it
is hoped will be made up. All are
. invited to attend and help the boys
' out. Good music has been secured
and an enjoyable time is promised.
i.
, Mike Rice Arrives
Mike Rice, an old pioneer of this
state, and at one time under sheriff of
1 i"'s couuiy m iu eany ujo,
State Engineer Approves.
Office of the State Engineer, Phoe-
inix, Arizona, Sept. Z7, llb.
I The Hon. Secretary of Agriculture,
i Washington, D. C.
jSir: j
I have the honor to transmit here-
' with, with my approval, proposal of
the Board of Supervisors of Greenlee
County, Arizona, to enter Into a co
operative agreement under the pro
visions of Sec. 8 of the Federal Aid
FIRE DESTROYS HOUSE
On Wednesday afternoon about 3
o'clock fire completely destroyed the
old Collins house on the East Side
opposite the Greenlee Garage
The
building, which was owned by
the
Arizona Copper company and occu-
pied by Chinese vegetable dealers,
was of brick construction and the
fire had gained such headway by the
time the alarm was turned in that it
was consumed in a short time, only
the brick walls being left standing.
The origin of the fire could not be
ascertained but Is thought to have
started from a quantity of oil stored
in the place. An excellent pressure
of water was obtained and the' fire
boys did effective work in saving ad
joining buildings from total destruc
tion. The frame house south of the
burned building was in jeopardy and
at one time the roof was blazing
fiercely, the flames being driven by a
high wind which was blowing at the
time. The nouse was considerably (
damaged by tne fire and water, al-
though most of the conieuis were sav-j
ed.
Several streams of water were also
played on the big garage across the
street in which large quantities of
gasoline and oil were stored. Had 1
this building caught it wouid '
probably have destroyed every house
in the vicinity as the wind was high
at the time. The burned building was
corapU-teiy destroyed with the excep
tion of the walls v hieh are still
standing. The inside was gutted by
the kames and nothing was saved of
the contents.
NEILL-KENT NUPTIALS
A courtship which began a few
years ago in Clifton was culminated
in the marriage on September 6th of
v. H. Neill and Miss Mary Kent at
1 Clifton last week and are now
at
.home to their trienas in me
Fraser
! uou&e m uuiu ".i""
Mrs. Neill needs no introduction
to Clifton as she is well known here
having taught music in the public
schools for three terms and having
made hosts of friends who are pleas
ed to aw in welcome her. to, their
m.idstflfl.", rs.. iNi!i '.s a young iuy 01
imanv accomplishments and has attain-
life of happiness ana prosperity.
REGISTRATION BOOKS
' OPEN UNTIL OCT. 15tS
Only Seventeen New Voters Have
Registered Since Sept. 18th Only
Fifteen Days Remaining.
! eon.
xveuistraLiou ui,uicio
. eral lecti on, which comes this fall on
j , ia
ll
inst., at the office of the county re
corder. ' The books will remain open
m InU of tT f tie
e,4at register
'Sk of the books on this
until October 15, the final day for re-
, " TOOC nf ,hnl,t is
'days when registration was closed for
I the primary election. Since the
, WQS1 ro.nninid twelve
ULtasiuu uiaing v" vm.
ereat register was
Democrats and five Republicans have
availed themselves of the opportunity.
It . will be necessary for voters to
declare their party affiliation on this
occasion the same as for the pri
mary election. The great register
compiled from the registration of
this year will be used in the primary
- ,
j election two years hence when the
Lull aimiauuLio v kj v
Here from Ranch
Jim Cosper, who has been spending
several weeks on his ranch on the
Blue, is in Clifton this week. Mr.
Cosper states that he will remain
1. cnnin tima onH nnaaihlv until
after tQe eral election. during
which time he will aid in every way
possible the democratic candidates in
the November election. Mr. Cosper
who before the primaries had aspira
tions for the shrievalty, withdrew in
favor of Arthur Slaughter, the regular
ly nominated democratic candidate.
His efforts will now be put forth to
help elect the entire democratic
ticket from top to bottom.
Postmasters Convention
J. M. Ronstadt, postmaster of the
Tucson office and president of the
Arizona Postmaster's convention, has
issued the call for the 1916 conven
tion. The meetings will be held in
Phoenix, fair week, Tuesday and
Wednesday, November 14 and 15.
Fair week was chosen to give post
masters of the state an opportunity
to meet and visit the Arizona exhi
bitions at the same time.
Selling Studebakers
Harry F. Solomon and B. Freuden
thal, of Solomonville, were in Clifton
on Friday bringing over two Stude
baker cars. Mr. Rascoe, of Morenci
w. s th? purcl'MKor of one car.
MINE FIRE AT MORENCI
A smouldering fire of unknown" ori
gin has this week filled the Clay mine
of The Arizona Copper company at
Morenci with deadly gases which for a
time caused suspension of operations
In that part of the workings. The
fire was discovered about 11 o'clock
Sunday night by workmen who were
returning from the Fairbank claims
through the tunnel in the Clay mine.
On account of the dense smoke the
men were compelled to go over the
mountain instead of through the tun
nel and upon arriving in Morenci
they reported the matter to the com
pany officials.
The helmet crews from both the D.
C. and A. C. companies penetrated
to the source of the fire and found i
it had started in a tunnel of the
Clay mine and that a cave-in had oc
curred resulting in the smothering of
the fire, since which time it has been
smoldering.
According 10 a statement iroui
rnpral TwtrmeAr Harmirhael renorts
According to a statement from
of the fire have been greatly .eiX, In
gerated and outside of danger from freS
the gases formed the work of confin-! HfiZmVT, k the fam0UJ'
ing the smoldering timbers, little . flTn?. ter been Prepared,
damage has been done. n? as f ased and oya
The area where the fire started has f e. JA 4116 conversation
been bulkheaded and with the ex- 0f8dJr he grammar stage
ception of part of the 'mine work Is l mJ " un d subjects, and
new eoine on as usual vi?8 U is allesed was finally corrupted
Oneg delth has so far resulted from' i f Pf? a,?d obscene language un
the fire the victim being D. A. Lang-nl t1f "ard: . t.
lev a voune civil engineer on Tues- " tne resu,t of the hilarity and
OS affeTofn' T. Holt, a neighbor,
vising the construction of some ore 7tho 'am,I'l was , forSfd f"
bins some distance beyond the Clay . "' aU1ed Marshal lt Crawford and
mine and was returning home through ?Is?nt werecIted to appear in
the tunnel when it is thought that he urt ad an8.we,r charges which were
became confused and was overcome against them The com-
by the poisonous gases, his body later , &ahT to ,Mr- ?ol
being found in a stope near the Clay arf,e8 6 men wlth in5 Profane
mine. The body was taken to his and f,b8Ce,ne lguage and by riotous
home in Morenci where on Tuesday f"d 0 8 conduct' and tno8
.voi short funeral services were tbe Darty w.no were neld to answer
conducted and on Wednesday morn-
ing the remains were shipped to Los
Aneeles for interment.
MEXICAN KILLED BY COMPANION
About one o'clock this morning a
Mexican by the name of Pablo Chaves
was killed on Chase Creek by a com
panion with whom he had an alter-
cation. It is understood mat tne eter-
iKiuiu.111 ,v
ion over wmuu iu i w w siancu.
rarucuiars 01
been learned but it is understood that
Chaves had been paying more . .tten-
tion to the other man's wife than he
thought proper and the men were
threshing the matter out in a wordy
battle when the husband became
gered at tne remarks of Chives and
picking up a large rock smashed him
m the face with it knocking him to
the ground After Chaves was . down
he repeated the dose with deadly ef-
i" 11 v uj r,a it
. Upon realizing he had done it
is saia mat me r "
his wife of his act and ed er
that he was taking a leave of absence
tor an inaeuniie .
yet been located although the officers
are making efforts to learn his where -
a . 1 -kAA
Thn2TorroniTnf Chalet this
over the the remains of Chaves this
afternoon but at this time their ver-
diet has not been rendered.
" I . .
Pleasantly Surprised
un last weunesuay evemug m mc
Clifton Baptist church, the Board of
?rl
Finance, on
the church,
Rev. W. J.
Gordon, with a beantifui
wotnh nnrf fnh n a token of Tnplr
v6 and tteem and Mn Spann act
love ana esteem, ana Mrs. opann, act
watch and fob
i 1 f 1.1. -.!
; h l A irl Rn.iotv nrft-
s j X j. ruC .IV " ,
handsomely embroidered table linen.
Thoueh the castor and his wife were
fJf f tL tm
touched the hearti,of the givers and
many eyes were filled with tearsas
the pastor bade his friends farewell.
Refreshments were served in tni
rc r v. , , ,j
building by the Ladies Aid Society
nev. joraon auu uia wutj nave uuno
faithful and effective work here in
tile ServlUc Ul VWU. ailU lOAC mcmucio
, , . . . -i
01 uieir cuureu 1 iij
true friends outside, regret to see
them leave the community. Rev.
Gordon has been called to assume
charge of the Baptist church at Wins-
low, Arizona. He and his family left
Clifton for their new field of lacr on
muiBujr """"5 ing they and o. J. Cotey were sen-
fenced to a fine of $5 each, they be-
Sells Drug Store !jng represented by their Attorney
Postmaster J. L. T. Watters thiSjraVe Ling. The cases against the
week disposed of his drug store, the
purchaser being George Deibert, of
Clifton, who will take possession on
.next Monday. Mr. Watters has been
' conducting the drug store for the
past fifteen years, ever since he in
' stituted the business, the first drug
store in Duncan . During these years
; he enjoyed a liberal patronage from
' the people of Duncan and the valley
and his many friends will regret his
decision to retire from business.
; Mr. Deibert comes here from Clif
i ton, where for some time he had
charge of the drug department of the
A. C. company store. He is an ener-
;elic young man ami un expert phar-
ni.icist and is certain to be successful ; ed. Dr. Burtch this week investi
in his new vents re. Duncan News. ! gated a report that there was a case
'on Shannon Hill but found it with-
Back from Big Bend 'out foundation. The disease has ap-
! R. R. Webster and Henry Hill re-1 arently been effectually checked
1 turned this week from the Big Bend through the efforts of the county
country in Texas where they are in- j health officer and his corps ot as
1 terested in a quicksilver mine which ; sistants. In a communication to Dr.
, is being operated under the manage-1 Burtch the State Health Officer high
i ment of David Gough well known min- ly commended him upon the able man
j ing man of this section. Mr. Web- ner in which the situation has been
ster reports the property in a highly handled here and stated that every
satisfactory condition and negotia-! possible precaution had been taken
tions are being completed for taking: for its suppression. It is now hoped
over additional property. A new cor- that our sister city will be able in a
poration will probably ,be formed in short time to resume her normal con
the near future. dition without a handicap.
PARTY ENDS IN THE
LOCAL JUSTICE
COURT
A Result of "Welcome Home" Party
of Fifteen Men Are Haled Into
Court On Complaint of Neighbor
Whose Peace and Quietude Wert
Disturbed By Convivial Spirits.
Five Found Guilty, Remaining Nine
Cases Dismissed.
The local justice court was this
week the scene of a climax to a party
held on last Friday night in South
Clifton by fifteen young men, wel
coming home one of the young men
wh l,j . . - " -
1 h. nad. been east on his vacation
were O.J. Cotey, E. C. Fitzgerald,
A11,?7, VA Hoy J" H- Gray
i'" . y- owanson.
Beany Lynde, Jack Lvnde. Harrv
;Goldzier, Dr. Jones, Dean Mason, M.
K. Dolorden, Maxwell and John Fen
wick. The case came up for hearing Mon
day afternoon before Justice Mc
Williams. The men were to have
been tried separately and by a jury
and tne flrst case Caiiec Was that
of
q j Cotev
Witnesses were heard
on DOth sldea and accordlns to rell.
,tMaoa , tha AJ re"
eM, proven T I w,
brought out that jjr. Cot vlgIt
tne ho n h
, h M purpose, of consult
Jnf-U1(te Qf . th-.nfembers on a matter
of'bus,nesg and was there Jnt
tlm a utu more than ftn d
after artakin of the b , ho8pltall.
and compleBxlng hls buy8ine88(P ,eft
tne nouge and went dlrectIy 'home
and thafrUuring his stay there was no
8Uch ,anguage U8ed J waa alled.
ThIs testimony was corroborated by a
ne hew of the delendant who stated
ttat 0, v, ,,',,.,. x.-
11 o'clock he
was passing the home of Mr. Cotej.
an(J 8eeln Ba M dr d ,n f
mInute8 chat and7hat when ne
entered the house defendant was al-
ready ln act ot undressing and pre-
talked for
h an an
.witness left the house Mr. Cotey
turned out the light and undoubtedly
-etired.
During the trial verbatim testi-
my a8 ven of the language at
4- 1 1 ; a ai
S!",Wt!JJ" " bA-
ucTCioi w uiucu Wiiu nclC U1COCUI &W
, . . -
the hea"nS were notified by Justice
MWii,ipTT1!. nf wi,,f wn .nnin. at.
i won ;UUiiUg auu
warned them that they had better re-
tire. However.withtwo or three ex
ceptions, they stayed and as Tad says
got an ear full." Upon the conclus-
-n ot the testimony the jury compos-
, c McBrlde Lue Buckelew, J.
c Carra c. L. McLaugWin,
Smith Jonn T rarrlea. T
-.. T
H. Morgan, Geo. Younger, Jesse Mon
tieth, Wm. Piersick, Geo. Stewart and
jtietn, vvm. fiersicK, ue
c B' c foreman,
retired and
isoon after returned with a verdict of
guilty.
1 A'V tnJitJ.ml iini YnA Kaa
' rviiuiuci uiuiviuuai 11 lai uau uccu
, t f Tuesday morning but in the
meantime the plaintiff agreed that lt
the cases of Peter Riley, Beany Lyn
de, Harry Goldzier and Jack Lynde
were tried he would be satisfied. The
jpleaded guilty and on Thursday morn.
, remaining nine men were dismissed.
It was understood that Mr. Cotey will
take an appeal to the Superior Court.
Smallpox Under Control
The smallpox epidemic which has
been raging in Morenci for the past
month is now well under control and
no new cases have been recently re
ported, according to Dr. L. A. W.
Burtch, county health officer. The
new pest house at Bunkers has heen
completed and the inmates are rapidly
recovering and it is thought that in a
very short time all will be discharg-
