1'"' 'f' fl
l WW HJSV-CVO
m III I .
If
V
Vol. 20
EAST JORDAN. MICHIGAN, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1916.
No. 40
Wholesalers
Our Guests
Entertained Our Citizens With
Excellent Program at the
Temple Theatre.
East Jordan was visited this week for
the second time in five years by the
Wholesalers' department of the Grand
Rapids Association of Commerce. The
departments noted vcstibuled all-steel
Pullman train of eight coaches arrived
in the city Wednesday evening at 7 o'
clock and was met by President Carl
Stroebel of the board of trade, and the
owners of thirty automobiles in which
the visitors were conveyed uptown.
The rain prevented a parade by the
Wholesalers and the Furniture City
Band which had been one of the pleas
ing features in nearly all the towns and
cities on the four days' route.
In Temple Theatre a public meeting
was held at 8 o'clock, the hall being
packed to the doors. The band render-
4
i"
7
A.
& iif v.-v iif
tfvj
W. K. PLUMB
Secretary Association of Commerce
in Charge of Trade Extension Tour.
ed uuring the evening several selec
tions, including two descriptive pieces
which were highly entertaining to the
audience.
Mayor A. E. Cross opened the meet
ing and gave a cordial addiess of wel
come, assuring the' visitors that the big
welcome banner across Main street
meant just what it said, and before the
meeting closed the Grand Rapids men
appeared to fully realize that the East
Jtrdan business men truly were glad
tosee them again.
Carroll F. Sweet, vice president of
the Old National bank, Grand Rapids,
presided, and speeches were made by
Hebcr A. Knott, of Carl Knott Co., E.
L. Wellman, Grand Rapids' famous
bean man, F. E. Leonard of II. Leon
ards' Sons, Lee M. Hutchins, of Ha.el
tme & Perkins, and R. O. Bisbee of the
Peoples' State bank, East Jordan. The
inter-dependence of Grand Rapids with
East Jordan and vice .versa, character
in business and how to promote and
retain it; the upbuilding of western
and northern Michigan, were some of
the points made very interesting in the
talks.
Several selections were given by Mr.
Hazel Reilly, one of Grand Rapids lead
ing tenor singers, and all were greatly
enjoyed, his voice being beautiful.
Business places remained open longer
than usual to give the visitors a chance
to see and appreciate the unusually
clean and thrifty appearance East Jor
dan presents, not on occasion but
habitually. Comments upon the evi
dent prosperity of East Jordan were
heard on all sides during the stay of
the Grand Rapids men.
Thursday morning the seventy-five
visitors called upon their local retail
patrons.
Wholesale Acknowledgment
The Herald is indebted for the fol
lowing gifts from the Grand Rapids
wholesalers who were our city's guests
this week:
National City Bank memorandum
book.
Box of Double A Putnam's chocolates.
Worden Grocer Co. Money Bag.
Kalmbach Logie Co. Hand mirror.
vj. B. Knowlson Co. Pair of gloves.
,tyichigan Engraving Co. Printer's
guage.
Grand Rapids Bedding C6. Pen and
quill.
Bennett Fuel and Ice Co. Pencils.
EAST JORDAN SEVEN
IJOYNE CITY THREE
East Jordan Base Ball Team added
another game to their long string of
victories this summer, when they won
the game at Boyne City last Sunday by
the score of seven to three. Roberts, a
former state league pitcher, was on the
mound for Boyne, but orr local team
located him for thirteen bits.
The Score: 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 R II E
East Jordan 030201010 7 13 1
Boyne City 1 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 3 5 3
Batteries: Eas.t Jordan, Scdgman
and Bennett; Boyne City, Roberts and
Camorod.
A game will be played on the West
Side diamond next Sunday, Mancelona
ooming over for a game. Next Wed
nesday the team goes to Central Lake
for the Home-Coming, and plays Alden.
WASTE LAND EXPENSIVE.
Nonproductive Acres Represent
Dead Capital and Arc a Loss.
Every acre of nonproducing tillable
land should be put to work or sold, says
a new publication of the department,
Farmers' Bulletin 745. Many farmers
would make more money if their busi
ness were larger, but the size of a farm
from a financial standpoint, is measur
ed not by the number of acres embrac
ed in it but by the number that are
producing crops, pasturing animals
economically, or supporting a growth of
marketable forest products. Nonproduc
tive acres are loafer acres, and the
money tied up in them is dead capital.
On eyery farm, however, there are
certain areas necessarily devoted to
nonproductive purposes. Fences,
ditches, lanes, jind building lots produce
nothing themselves, but they are
frequently essential to production on
the rest of the farm. Nevertheless,
they may occupy in the aggregate a
considerable percentage of the available
land. It is a part of efficient farm
management to see to it that this per
centage is no higher than necessary.
In this connection, some interesting
figures are given by the bulletin al
ready mentioned in regard to the
amount of land occupied by fences of
different kinds. It takes, for instance,
oiriy 201) rods of untrimmed hedge and
only 214 rods of zigzag rail or worm
fence to waste an acre of what might
be productive land. For the same ex
penditure of land one can run 4.7J rods
of woven wire and 473 rods of barbed
wire. Other considerations, of course,
may make it desirable to use the hedge
or the worm fence, but the waste in
volved is a factor that should not be
overlooked.
Similarly, farm lanes often may be
eliminated by a simple rearrangement
of fields; headlands, or turning spaces
at the edges of fields, avoided; and the
farmstead itself the group of farm
buildings with their lots and yards, the
garden, and the orchard made com
pact. In the case of the farmstead,
however, considerations of health and
attractiveness may well justify a slight
sacrifice of economy.
. While a little planning often will
result in the saving of much land now
devoted to these unproductive uses, a
more difficult problem is presented by
waste of land land that is rendered
untillable by swamps, ravines, rocks,
slopes, etc., woodland that produces
nothing salable, and pastures that are
too poor to be profitable. Some areas
are, of course, hopeless, and in that
case they should be left out of the
reckoning altogether. Before this is
done, however, it will pay to look into
the possibilities of profitable reclama
tion. Many untillable fields, for ex
ample may be turned into productive
pastures, or, if they will not grow
enough grass to make this economical,
they can be used for the production of
timber. On the other hand, it frequent
ly happens that woodlots which yield
nothing but a little firewood for home
consumption are permitted to occupy
valuable land. In deciding whether
such lots should be cleared and tilled,
the cost of clearing, the increased
value of the cleared land, the interest
on the investment, the salable value of
the timber products, and the added
expense for firewood which will follow
the disappearance of the timber roust
all be taken into account. With un-
wooded areas, the advisability of bring
ing them under the plow may be de
termined by comparing the probable
cost with the market price of good
arable land in the neighborhood.
Obviously, the higher the price of land
rises the more incentive there is for the
farmer to avoid waste in the utilization
of it. It is significant, however, that
the investigations of the department
have shown that, irrespective of the
price, tenants put a greater part of the
land to productive use than owners.
The tenant pays rent for each acre and
he can not afford to have any of them
idle. On the other hand, the man who
has no rent to pay may be able to get
along on the produce of a part only of
his farm, and he is, therefore, more
likely to overlook the potential value of
the part he wastes. By so doing he is,
of course, throwing away opportunities
to make money, but this is not always
appreciated by those who have not
grasped the important fact that the
average farm is too small for maximum
efficiency and that in the majority of
cases to increase the size of the. farm
business is to increase the profits from
it. Those owners, however, who realiz
ing this, are operating leased land in
addition to their own, are, like tenants,
careful to see that they pay for no
loafer acres.
To anyone who is buying or leasing
land, then, the important question is
not "How much am I paying an acre
for this tract?" but "How much am I
paying for the acres that are going to
work for me?" In the new bulletin it
is calculated that a farm of 100 acres,
selling at $100 an acre, will cost the
purchaser actually $111.11 an acre if
DO per cent of it is productive, and $200
an acre if only f0 per cent of it is pro
ductive. As a matter of fact, the per
centage of improved land in farms east
of the Mississippi is only fJ.5 and west
of that river only 50.8. Improved land,
however, it should be noted, isliot al
ways the same as productive land. A
good timber lot, for example, is not im
proved, but it may be highly productive
and farm buildings and fences stand on
land that is improved but produces
nothing. ' In the final analysis it is the
amount of productive land that de
termines the earning capacity of a farm
and that should therefore determine its
price.
School Commissioner's
Notes
May L. Stewart, Commissioner
First round of visits in . wilson town
ship completed. Everything going
nicely!
Wilson township teachers' meeting
at the office on Saturday, the 23rd. A
full aitendance at each meeting of this
kind will be expected. . There will be
but the one for each township and the
professional spirit of the teacher will
necessarily be judged by the one pres
ent or absent mark. Let us hope that
your teacher may be marked present.
Some of the new approved textbooks
are being used in Pleasant Valley, in
the German School, and in Deer Lake.
Every teacher in Wilson township
subscribes for at least two school
magazines.
Only one school in Wilson township
which is without legal equipment in
school furnishings.1 These schools are
not Standard yet in seating and lighting
but it wouldn't take long to get there.
Report cards and courses of study
have been mailed to all teachers.
The seating schedules mailed to
school directors this week contain a cut
loaned to the commissioner thru the
kindness of the state superintendent.
The department has also loaned to the
commissioner free of charge for use in
the directory of 191G-1917 a number of
cuts showing conditions in country
school buildings. If your school is a
Standard school, just send in a snap
shot of the same. It will be deeply ap
preciated and good use will be made of
the same.
Circular letters to school officers
relative to the year's work were mailed
recently.
The blanks for the school credit for
home work system reaches a few
schools at the end of the first or second
week and the teachers ask about credit
for the first two weeks of school. In
any case of this kind the child may be
credited the first and second week with
the average amount during the third
and fourth weeks of school. This ar
rangement may be used in any school
where the cards have arrived late.
Balmer method ' position charts on
hand in the office for all not yet sup
plied. Resolve now, ye parents, that your
children shall be in school every day
even at the cost of sacrifice in the home.
Resplve now, ye children, that ye
shall earn large diplomas for'full year's
perfect attendance.
Let us start the year with a vim. The
boys and girls are the flowers thaf'will
thrive or wither under our care. Their
environment is the garden we are
cultivating. Let us labor with diligence
and care.
THE GOLDEN RULE IN
THE TUBERCULOSIS FIGHT
The whole questipn of fighting tu
berculosis comes down to the golden
rule. You do not want others to give
the disease to you; you should not allow
yourself to give the disease to others.
And the only sure way of not giving
the disease to others is not to get it
yourself.
That may seem a curious way of
putting it. It is put 'that way to
emphasize the fact that good health is
not only desirable but that it is, to a
large extent, positively a dity. The
man who allows his body to become
run down and in that way holds out an
invitation to the tuberculosis germ is
committing a crime against himself not
only, he is committing a crime against
society in general. By endangering his
own health he is endangering the
health of his wife, of his child, of his
neighbor, of the stranger who passes
along the street.
And if a person has caught the
disease either through his own fault or
through the fault of some one else, it is
his sacred duty to protect others against
hiimself. That is the great value of a
campaign such as is being carried on in
this county now, that it centers the at
tention of all the people pn this disease.
And the person who is not interested in.
fighting the disease is potentially a
criminal, if it is criminal to give to
others a malady that causes suffering
and death.
To come once more to the cardinal
principles in fighting tuberculosis: The
care must be begun early. If treatment
is begun in time; tuberculosis is one of
the easiest diseases to cure. In the
early stages it can be cured almost ten
times out of ten. There Kie few seri
ous diseases about which a doctor can
be so hopeful as about an early case of
tuberculosis.
But it is still more important that
every one shall keep his body in such
good physical condition that the disease
is not caught. The man who keeps his
physical forces at high tone runs little
danger of contracting tuberculosis.
Hence everything that is done by the
individual and by society to build up
health and strength is done to check
tuberculosis.
And for both the cure and the pre
vention of this disease the three chief
elements are plenty of pure air, plenty
of wholesome food, and plenty of rest.
This trinity of forces is nature's means
of fighting tuberculosis. And up to the
present time nature's method is the
only method that has yet been discover
ed. And of the three elements named
the greatest is plenty of pure air.
By keeping his windows open day
and night, winter and summer, while
he is well and strong, a man increases
his chances tenfold for remaining well
and strong.
FIRE BLIGHT IN APPLE
Undoubtedly many of the readers of
this article have noticed in their own
or neighbors' apple or pear trees, short
branches on which the leaves look
scorched and killed. I have noticed it
in many of the trees in the gardens of
this city, and I have had several re
quests for information in regard to it.
This condition is due to a disease
known variously as the Fire Blight,
Tear Blight, and Apple Blight which
has come to be recognized as one of
the most serious enemies of these
fruits. It is a bacterial disease, gaining
entrance to the tree through wounds or
through the flowers. The germs are
carried by insects to the flower. The
insects are attracted by the dark,
mucilaginous fluid that oozes out of the
diseased wood in the spring and which
is swimming with bacteria. From the
flowers and other centers of infection
the disease spreads through the whole
plant.
When it appears the best treatment
is to remove and burn the infected
parts, cutting from 12 to 18 inches be
low where the disease appears. The
disease may be carried in pruning
implements from a diseased to a healthy
tree. Therefore, the best plan is to
disinfect the pruning tools after. each
cut with kresol carbolic acid, formalde
hyde, or some other good disinfectant.
If each large cut is also painted with
this, it will help to check the disease.
B. J. HOLCOMB.
The board of strategy is the kind you
get at a poor boarding-house.
A man would be given a patrol joy
ride if he wore a suit made from striped
awning; but a woman can get away
with it.
The man who tries to buy his way in
to heaven may discover later that he
gave up money to an unauthorized
representative.
VanPelt's Tour
ing Dairy
Charlevoix County's Good Roads
Booster Writes Interestingly.
(First Day Out)
Thursday, Sept. 14, 1910.
We left Charlevoix the Beautiful,
Thursday, Sept. 14th, 101G at nine a. m.
made a short stop at my dear old home
in Norwood with the sad thought that
I'd never make it my home again. T
fixed up a few little necessary things
for the benefit of the next occupant
and left for Manistee, 120 miles from
Charlevoix; and at Traverse City 12:30
p. m., had dinner and left rft 2:00 p. m.
Passed through Bcnzonia at 3:45, Bear
Lake 4:4.") and at Manistee 5:45, when
we found reasonably comfortable
quarters at the cosy little Briny Inn.
The worst roads we struck today
wero between Charlevoix and Nor
wood, except some short stretches be
tween Eastport and Torch Lake and
between Interlochen and Benzonia. If
some gravel could now be placed in
the low places on the stretch from Lou
See's cornor and Porters on the Nor
wood road, this stretch would last a
year or two longer, but as it is now go
inglt will soon go to the bad. On ac
count of the very poor work done on
the Norwood road this year, the poor
est I ever saw, I advise that no more
money be spent on this road until the
new county road is built, as it is grow
ing worse and worse every year.
I wish to call the attention of the
public to a very dangerous place on
this stretch of road. It is at the cross
ing of the brook at Henry Van Dusan's
about half way from Charlevoix to Nor
wood. The attention of the town of
ficials was called to this last summer
when they were" working on the road,
to make it as impassable as they know
how. It seems that last year the Path
master used tile to convey the water
instead of building a bridge, but they
were short about eight or ten feet in
order to make - the road as ida
as it ought to be. It is now filled in on
top of this tile so high that some day
after a heavy rain, some big car going
at ordinary speed will cause the earth
to slide off and away goes Mr. Car. I
speak for myself because I came near
sliding off myself. Unless soon fixed,
the town of Norwood will have a bill of
damages to pay in my opinion. Fool
luck may save us, as it has many times.
Good night,
v VAN PELT.
(Second Day Out)
Friday, Sept. 15, 191G.
Left Manistee 7:30 a. m.
Arrived at Scottville, 8:35 a. m.
" at Pentwater, 9:30 a. m.
" at Shelby, 10:30 a. m.
at Montague, 12:00 noon.
Stoped for dinner at the Franklin
House, "The House of Quality On The
Pike," Peck & Peck's Son, Proprs.
Left Montague, 12:40 p. m.
Ar. at Muskegon, 2:15 p. m.
" at Grand Rapids, 4:00 p.' m.
Roads all exceptionally good except
last ten or twelve miles going into
Montague. There is some strife on be
tween the factions one recommend
ing this town tour instead of the West
Michigan Pike, which is the one we
should have taken. It is queer how
people will knock. If I lived five miles
from the route selected for a depend
able road concrete, which they all ad
mit is the only one that will last for a
long, long time, I'd vote for that road,
knowing that I'd have part of the way
to my trading point, instead of voting
against it and not having any. '
The weather has turned cold and we
find the top up and the curtains drawn
very acceptable. Nothing between
here and Charlevoix begins to appeal
to us except along White Lake. Here
we found large houses and barns al
though the buildings need paint and
fruit trees along the side of the road,
We have only had time to converse
with a few men. All admit that good
roads have increased the price of their
property and. they look for good re
sults for bcing'on the Pike.
It's now ten p. m. and time for all
honest men to be in bed, so I'll sleep
(the sleep of the just, I hope) in one
of the nw Pantlind Hotel's bully good
beds.
(Third Day Out)
Saturday Sept. 16, 191G.
We left Grand Rapids at 7:30 a. m.,
passing Odessa, 39 miles out, at 9:00 a.
ro. Here, we had the worst street
crossings' imaginable. I remarked to a
man standing near, "Your crossings
are mighty bad." Yes sir, he said,'
D n bad.", Thank you, I said, that
hardly expresses it, but It Is pretty
good. 1 can say some things in this
line, too, but I can't do the particular
crossing justice. We passed much
clay soil and saw but few cars. Wood
bury, 9:20 a. m., poor roads About
eighty per cent of all the cars we meet
are "Henry's SpecialsJiSunset, 9:35
a. m. This town hajs a big sign as fol
lows: '"This is Sunset. Welcome,"
which I thought a good thing. Many,
towns we pass through we do not
know the name of except by the Blue
Book directory. We have seen several
of the same kind of road men as are
seen on our Norwood road, using sod
for the road bed. . We bumped and
bumped over them, singing "Home
Sweet Home," while we jumped the
back breaker. Grand Ledge, 10:30 a.
m. We have left a lot of very bad
roads behind for others to enjoy. Near
here we saw our first good old sugar
beets and I said, "This would make big
Henry Wagner smile." Some of the
farmers have used the sides of the road
by planting corn and it was good corn,
too. Lansing, 11:00 a. m. Weber
ville, 12:30 p. m., where we stopped
for dinner. Flowerville, 1:50 p. m.
Oh, what a lot of impassable roads we
have left behind us. They are making
deep gravel roads and several cars got
stuck. One man said that he knew
they were fooling away their money
on these roads, that they ought to build
concrete roads. I said, No, not in this
clay soil. If you had good drainage as
we have and a good loam soil, it would
be the best you could use and it would
last a life time. Brighton, 3:00 p. m.,
and was in Detroit at 5;00 p. m., mak
ing a drive of 438 miles the first three
days. It's now 9:30 p. m., and I'll say
good night.
VAN PELT.
WALKER SCHOOL RE
CEIVES STANDARD
SCHOOL PLATE
The fifth Standard School in Charle
voix county received recognition from
the state department and received its
plate on the night of. Saturday, Sept.
23rd. A fine neighborhood gathering
faced the autumn storm to witness the
presenting of the plate, to hear the
program prepared for the occasion, and
partake of the good things to eat which
the good mothers of Eveline No. 5 had
brought with them.
The building is now remodeled along
scientific lines and is not only larger
but more healthful and more comfort
able. It is well decorated and fine to
look upon, altogether a building of
which every resident of the district
may be justly proud. This effort which
has been largely the result of the work
of the past four months is due almost
entirely to the hard work and leader
ship of the district board and the
earnest fathers and mothers who work
ed with them. The director of the
district is Mr. E. H. Clark, the moder
ator A. B. Clark, and the treasurer R.
II. Sherman. It is but a modest esti
mate of their work to say that they are
doing more for Eveline development
than could be done in any other man
ner in working for its community,
social, and educational life.
, Supt. Mcintosh of Boyne City deliver
ed the address of the evening speaking
about farm life, its joys, and opportuni
ties. His frank, cordial manner found
a responsive cord in the hearts of all,
and his views on acres of diamonds
will not soon be forgotten. Before and
after his address the boys and girls
sang very spiritedly. Miss Lorraine
sang with much feeling "The Truest
Love is the Mother's Love", and re
sponded sweetly with the encore "Just
a Wearyin' for You."
Before the plate was presented in be
half of the state superintendent of
public instruction, the commissioner
dedicated the building to truth and
health, and gave a brief history of the
"Sta'ndard Schools" of Michigan, show
ing the rapid increase in their mumber
during the past two years.
Three cheers for Eveline No. 5, the
fifth Standard School In' Charlevoix
county, the third Standard School in
Eveline township and one of the best
in northern Michigan!
Cold storage is afailure when it
comes to keeping an engagement.
Instead of running away from your
work try to find a more efficient way
of doing it. That is the secret of
success.
If sympathy could only be converted
Into cash it's doughnuts to fudge that
there wouldn't be so much of it wasted.
It may be better to be happy than to
be rich, but very few poor' men ever
derived any satisfaction from that belief.
