Time
PAGES 1 TO 8
OWOSSO THE CITY OF PUSH"
VOL. XXXVIII
OWOSSO, MICHIGAN, SEPT. 29, 1916.
NO. 27
r 1 1 rr w w n
owosso
FIREMEN GET MORE REST
Mayor Grants Evary Sixth Day Law
Giving Every Fourth Day
Before Court.
On application of the firemen of the
city through Chief Craig, Captain Rob
ert Crane and William Howell, the
Mayor haa granted the firemen every
sixth day off dnty instead of every
seventh and eighth days alternately as
at present A law giving every fourth
day was declared unconstitutional by
Judge Gage, and is at present before
the supreme court for final decision.
Bond for Pavement.
The city commission has authorized
the issuance of bonds in the sum of
$ vu, we money to oe usea tor paving
South Washington atreet.
Parka Near City Wells.
Commissioner Bosevear is having the
land around the old city wells near Oak
Hill cemetery cleaned up, and will also
beautify the land near the new wells
and make parks at.botn places.
Shiawassee Well Supplied.
The registration of automobiles for
the state is up to 133,851 pleasure cars
and 10,196 commercial cars or trucks,
and the county of Shiawassee stands
tenth in the list with 2, 197 pleasure cars
and 52 commercial cars. The average
price of ft license in the state is $12.
Miscellaneous Shower.
Misses Agnes and Ida Schymura, East
M ain street, entertained at a 6 o'clock
dinner Tuesday evening, compliment
ing Miss Jessie Delaney, whose mar
riage to Mr. Ralph Plerow of Lansing,
will take place soon. Three courses
were served by the hostesses and thirty
five guests were present.
Bought Carload of Horses.
Harry P. Madden of East Buffalo, N.
Y., purchased a carload of horses at
Sutterby's barn in this city, Wednes
day, paying good prices for the animals.
Mr. Madden is an expert horse buyer
and is a good man to look over the ani
mals. His trips are appreciated by the
. t A rrriAra in tViio nnH nrrnnni1ino mnn-
ties. J. C. Dunn of Flushing, is Mr.
Madden's representative in times be
tween his visit9.
Koerner-Slnger.
The marriage of Otto Koerner and
Mrs. Minnie Singer was solemnized
Monday afternoon at the Asbury M. E.
parsonage by Rev. J. B. Wallace. They
were attended by Miss Lottie Koerner
and Paul Hasse. They will resile on
George street.
Tuesday evening a large number of
friends surprised them at their home
and presented them with an oak rocker,
a set of silver and a purse of money.
Will Enlarge Laundry.
John Hughes has purchased the lot
on Ball street south of the Hughes laun
dry and will take down the old wooden
b uildings and in the spring erect a con
crete building 60x66 feet covering both
sites for his business. Plans are not yet
completed, but he will probably build
two stories high, the second floor to be
made into apartments. New machin
ery will be installed to make the plant
one of the best in the state.
Another Farmers' Club for Prohibition
"The members of the North Owosso
Farmers' Club are opposed to the so
called 'home rule' amendment; and
aie in favor of state-wide prohibition,"
position of the members of this club at
Its last meeting.
We have no question but that this is
the sentiment of eyery Farmers' Club,
Grange or Gleaners' organization in the
county.
Will Move to Larger Quarters.
W. G. Duffield has taken a long lease
of the new Fletcher building on West
Exchange' street and will move the Star
Bargain house there Nov. 1, occupying
both first floor and basement. He will
add several lines to his stock which now
conshts of crockery, toys, pictures,
kitchen ware, etc. - New mission de
sign fixtures will be installed and a
gallery built around the entire first
floor.
Crown Cirolo Class Election.
The Crown Circle class of the First
M. E. church met Monday evening at
the home of Mrs. Ray Gardner, 651
North Washington street A large
number were present and during the
business session the following officers
were elected for the coming year: Pres
ident, Miss Minnie Jesseph; vice presl
dent, Miss Dora Thome; secretary, Miss
Zella Beamish; treasurer, Mrs. Ray I.
Gardner. Following this a social hour
was enjoyed and Hht refreshments
were served by the hostess.
Indoor Ball League.
At a meeting at the Odd Fellow Tem
ple plans for the season's indoor base
ball urames were made which will in
sure good sport for the lovers of the j
game. Six teams will make up the
league, including the Malleables, Owos
so Mfg. Co., Robbins Table Co., Inde
pendent Stove Co., the Masons and the
Woodard Furniture Co. W. D. White
head is president, James Campbell vice
president, W. S. Cooper secretary and
treasurer. J. E. Ellis, C. P. Bentley
and W. D. Whitehead will draft the
schedule; Andrew Green and James
Corcoran will act as umpires, and J. E.
Dingwall as scorer. Play will start
Oct. 3.
Walsh-Cadleux.
Mis9 Gertrude C. Walsh of Owosao,
and Aloysius C. C. Cadleux of Detroit,
were un ited In marriage at St. Paul's
Catholic church, Rev. Fr. P. J. Slane
officiating, Monday morning, Sept. 25.
The bride was attended by her sister,
Miss Marguerite, both wearing navy
blue suits with hats to match. Michael
Cadieux, brother of the groom, was
best man. After the ceremony they
motored to the home of the bride's par
ents, Mr. and Mrs. J. M. Walsh, of
East Oliver street, where a four course
wedding breakfast was served to the
Immediate relatives. The favors and
decorations of the table were in pink
and white. The home had been artis
tically decorated with asters and smi
lax. After a trip to Mackinaw and Sault
St. Marie, Mr. and Mrs. Cadieux will
be at home in Detroit.
GIVEN $3,000 VERDICT
Edward Armstrong Wins Damago
Suit Against Ann Arbor R. R.
The jury in the $25,000 damage suit
brought by Edward Armstrong of
Owosso, against the Ann Arbor rail
road for the loss of an arm while acting
as brakeman, leturned a verdict of
$3,000, Wednesday, after deliberating
eight hours.
Armstrong was struck by a car when
a flying switch was made in the yards
at Ann Arbor several months ago and
claimed that fellow employees were
negligent. The company contended
that Armstrong was entirely to blame
and that no warning was required.
Some of the jurors it is understood
were in favor of paying Armstrong a
much larger sum, while others at first
were Inclined to the view that the com
pany was not at fault.
THREE CASES AFFIRMED
Supreme Court Upholds Shiawassee
Circuit Decisions Sugar Co. Wins
From Railroad MoDonald
Hall Case May Be Tried.
The supreme ' court handed down
three decisions of interest to Shiawassee
county people Tuesday in all of which
the circuit codrt decisions were sus
tained. The case of the Detroit,. Grand
Haven and Milwaukee Railroad against
the Owosso Sugar Co., in which the
Sugar Co. won in the circuit court was
affirmed, the Sugar Co. being given a
verdict of 1500 for sugar destroyed or
spoiled while being held for trans
portation by the railroad in Owosso
on the night of the cyclone, Nov. 11,
1911. The railroad sued for freight
charges and the Sugar Co. put in a
counter claim.
The case of Hugh McDonald vs. L. C.
Hall and others for $25,000 was before
the c ourt on an appeal from the Shia
wassee couri's ruling refusing on a
demurrer in whicn the defense claimed
that McDonald had not made sufficient
showing. Judge Dodds sitting for
Judge Miner overruled the demurrer,
and the plaintiffs appealed. The case
will probably go to trial now.
The case was the outgrowth of the
arrest and acquittal of Louis C. Hall,
Jr., on a statutory charge based on the
story of McDonald's thirteen-year-old
daughter. In the conduct of the case
McDonald accepted $5,000 from Hall
and agreed to take his daughter ouf of
the state, but was arrested for ' com
pounding a felony and the money taken
from him and returned to HalL Mc
Donald started suit for damages charg
ing conspiracy.
The third case was that of Prussia,
Detroit, vs. O. and F. Bailey of Burns
township, in which Prussia claimed a
note of $500 given by O. and F. Bailey
had not been paid.' The Baileys claimed
the note was paid and the circuit
court's decision to . that effect was
affirmed by the higher court.
m i
Joseph Shu Its, agent of the Ann A
bor railroad at Corunna, completed
thirty years of service for the railroad
this week.
KING'S DAUGHTERS
STATE CONVENTION
Will Be Held in Owosso Oct. 4, 5
and 6, 1916, in Christ Episcopal
Church Program and General
Information.
CONVENTION NOTES.
Registration and assignment of dele
gates at the church, Wednesday, Octo
ber 4, from 9 o'clock a. m., until 2
o'clock p. m.
Executive Board meeting at the
home of Mrs. C. S. Watson, CC0 N.
Washington St., at 11 o'clock a. m.,
Wednesday, October 4.
Meals will be served -in the Guild
Room of the church. Dinner 35 cents;
supper 25 cents.
A circle lenders' conference, to
which all delegates arc invited, will be
held 15 minutes prior to each session
in the Guild Room, under the leader
ship of Mrs. C. A. Bishop, Flint.
Literature of the Order and daily
papers will be on sale in the rest room.
Mail will be collected and delivered
at the rest room.
Delegates are invited to visit the
King's Daughters Dorcns Home be
tween sessions. Automobiles will be
furnished.
Friday afternoon at 2 o'clock dele
gates will be guests of the Circle on
an automobile ride.
A question box will be placed in the
auditorium of the church. Questions
will be answered Friday morning.
All meetings will be promptly on
Central Standard Time.
- PROGRAM
Wednesday Afternoon
2:00 o'clock
Organ Recital Mrs. F. II. Gould
Devotional Scrvicc.Rev. II. A. Waite,
Pastor Baptist Church
Hymn. .
Convention Opcned....Mrs. J. N. Lewis
State President
Presentation of Program..:...."....:.;....'..-
..................Mrs. Wm. A. Seegmiller
Address of Welcome
For the City.v..Mnyor Jas. DeYoung
For the Church
Rev. W. E. Blachford
For the Circle
Mrs. C. S. Watson," Leader
Response Mrs. Mary Braden, Perry
Greetings from Central Council
Mrs. M. C. Cronin
Solo Mrs. B. G. Mattson
Reminiscences of the International
Convention at Burlington, Iowa
Personnel....Mrs. E. J. Reid, Detroit
, Social Features :
Mrs. F. A. Darling, Detroit
Juniors
..Mrs. Thos. Forman, Mt. Clemens
Religious..Mrs. A. A. Patterson, Flint
Solo ; Miss Lillian Vogel
Address, "Christian Patriotism"....
' Mrs. Geo. Thompson, Owosso
Recommendations from the Executive
Board.
Distribution of ballot.
Delegates will be .guests of the
Owosso Circle for supper at the First
M. E. Church, corner of West Wil
liams and North Ball Sts.,at 0 o'clock.
Wednesday Evening.
Informal Ballot 7:007:30
7:30 o'clock
Hymn Chorus of Owosso Junior
Circle
Devotional Service
Pauline Tragcr, St. Catherine Circle
(Continued on pugc 8)
New Haven Mine Sold.
The New Haven coal mine has been
sold by Leo Ott of New Haven town
ship, who recently secured it at a sher
iff's sale, to W. A Graves and W. E.
Evans of St, Charles.
The new owners are practical miners
of experience, and, with others, will put
In money enough to operate the mine
and try it out. If the experiment proves
succeflsfnl the mine will be worked to
the limit.
Loses Parts of Fingers.
Robert Wilcox, well known garage
man and automobile driver of this city,
lost parts of the first, second and third
fingers of his right hand Tuesday, while
at work on Dr. O. L. Cramer's auto.
Dr. Cramer was in the garage at the
time and cared for the hand. Wilcox
had just warned Mr. Cramer to be
careful and not get his fingers in the
gearing.
t Death of Prof. A.J. Cook.'
Prof.' A. J. Cook passed away this
morning at the home of his son, Hon,
A. B Cook in Maple River, after an ill
ness of several months, aged 73 years.
The funeral will be hd Monday after
noon at the horns of A. B. Cook.
, Owosso 33; Durand O.
The first game of the Owosso high
school foot ball team was a good start
er, the team winning at Durand Satur
day, 83 to 0. The game was well play
ed at all points by the Owosso boys and
although the team is light it is fast and
a 'good record is looked for.
jThe line-up of Owosso was, Martin,
c; Q. Robbins, r g; Welch, 1 g; Giffei,
rt; L. Ross, It; J. Robbins, re;
Bchmltt, le; Stoner, q b; Blair, fb;
Brittson, r f ; Marvin, If. Qolte a
crowd witnessed the game including
over 75 from Owosso.
Oyld plays in Owosso Saturday.
Will Use Now Armory,
, The Owosso indoor base ball league
has closed ' a contract with the
armory committee to use the new
armory for this season's games. As a
result a larger diamond can be used,
and a 14 inch ball instead of a 16
inch ball, and a larger club. This will
result In more hitting and base running
and make the game more interesting
for the spectators
The use of the building for, the base
ball games will help materially in the
matter of funds for the proper care of
the building and the expense of janitor,
fuel, lights and bathing pool, and will
give the spectators a better place to
enjoy the game.
1 mm m
4 Reception for Rector.
A pleasant and largely Attended re
ception was held at the home of Mr.
and Mrs. B. L. Axford, West Main
street, Tuesday evening, in honor of
itev. and Mrs. W. R. Blachford. The
hosts and several members of Christ
Episcopal church vestry and their wives
and the ladies of the guild assisted in
receiving and introdncing the many
who came to meet the new rector and
his wife. Light refreshments were
served. (
Rey. Blachford has received a hearty
welcome to the pastorate of the Episco
pal church and his ability and enthu
siasm in his work has already made
Itself felt in the work of the church..
- '-Congregational Social Untorv--
The annual meeting of the Congre
gational Social Union was held Tuesday
afternoon at the church parlors. The
reports of the officers and various
committees were submitted. The re
port of the financial secretary showed
that the receipts for the year totalled
$1,055 and that - af tar all indebtedness
incurred by the society had been paid,
a nice balance was left.
The following officers were elected:
PresidentMrs. F. E. Kohler.
1st Vice President Mrs. M. W.
Southard.
2nd Vice President Mrs William
S. Noble. .
Financial Secretary Mrs. W. C.
Cadwallader.
Recording Secretary Mrs. George
Reineke.
Treasurer Mrs. G. T. Campbell.
Corey Laundry Sold.
M. D. Corey has sold the City Steam
Laundry to E G. Osborn of theOsborn
Dry Cleaning Works who will take
possession Monday, and later will move
the dry cleaning plant to the present
laundry building and conduct both
businesses there.
Mr. Corey has conducted the laundry
business here for over thirty years,
starting in with his brother Frank in a
building on the corner of Ball and Ex
change streets, and a year later moved
to the building which was destroyed by
the.cyclone and which was replaced by
j the present fine brick block. The busi
ness has always been successful, both
Mr. and Mrs. M. D. Coiey having given
their time and attention to it.
Mr. Osborn came to Owosso several
years ago from the east, and has built
up a successful business which, will
be easily and materially merged with
the laundry.
Mr. Corey was compelled by ill health
to stop tbe constant labor and hustle of
the laundry business and will take a
rest.
Bennington Grange.
The Bennington Grange will hold
Its first October meeting the evening
of the 3rd. There will be a pot luck
supper and a temperance program.
The Pomona Grange will meet in
Laingsburg the 4th of October. Din
ner will be served, and it is desired
that all who can will attend this
meeting.
mm iii
Freeman- Burkhart.
Miss Orpha Burkhart and Guy
Freeman, both of New Haven, were
l united in marriage, Wednesday after
noon at 6 o'clock at tbe Evangelical
parsonage by Rev. A. Ostroth. They
were attended by Miss Gladys Bark
hart and Lawrence L. Matthews Tbe
young con ule will reside on tbe groom's
fat in in New Haven.
A Distinctive Reason
What is the chief reason for the superi
ority of Royal Baking Powder?
There are several good reasons, but there
is one which distinguishes Royal from other
baking powders.
This reason, which every woman should
know, is that Royal Baking Powder is made
from cream of tartar, which comes from
grapes. This means a healthful fruit origin.
It means natural food as distinguished from
mineral substitutes used in other baking
powders.
There is no alum nor phosphate in Royal
Baking Powder
ROYAL BAKING POWDER CO
New York
PRIEST EXPLAINS
CATHOLIC STAND
ON PROHIBITION
Founder - of Society of Catholics Favoring Prohi
bition, Gives Reasons.
Dr. Dennis Hayes, pastor of St. Charles Catholic church, Cold
water, Mich., was asked recently by The Detroit News for the rea
sons that actuated him in organizing the society of Catholics favor
ing prohibition and to explain the church's attitude on the saloon
question. In the following statement Fr. Hayes makes it clear that
he is not coining in conflict with the church in espousing prohibi
tion. Editor.
By FR. DENNIS HAYES.
So you ask me as president of the Society of Catholics Favoring Prohi
bition, for a statement of the reasons which actuated me in the first instance
in participating in.any, movement looking to the elimination of the saloon as
an American institution. "Well, 'friend, I surely have a reason 'for the hope
that is in me; and if you have the time to listen and will be patient with
the I, me and mine outlay necessarily coming into so personal a matter, the
reasons will be given gladly. My present convictions are, of course, the re
sult of years of observation, study and experience and therefore I shall begin
at the beginning, passing by the injunction of poor old Horace to jump in
at the middle. 1 was born and brought up in the Michigan home of a
laboring man, who carefully kept intoxicating liquors of all kinds out of his
house. Even n little whisky for medicine was unknown among us. When a
school boy in St. Johns' parochial school at Jackson, I lived in the toilers'
section of the town and in the same block with me lived three other Catholic
families with boys of my age. They were my schoolmates and neighbor
hood companions. Each one of those three families was cursed, with the
saloon frequenting husband and father, who brought drunkenness and all
its attendant evils into the home. The mother in each case was a noble,
virtuous woman, but bent low with the burdens of misery fastened on her
by the saloons, and the children for the most part were such that their
memory is still with me like a benediction. We boys, after the manner of
youthful comradeship, were in and out of each others' homes day by day,
and the vivid contrasts constantly noted between their homes and mine were
all due to the presence of liquor in their houses and the absence of it in
mine. This liquor was furnished largely by saloonkeepers professing Catho
licity and the shame, poverty, suffering and heart aches of mothers and
children went on until death in two cases and separation in the third, re
moved from the dwellings of my companions their able exemplars of per
sonal liberty; that divine right, its irrational advocates would have you be
lieve, that a man possesses to dofile himself, to forget the sacred duties of
husband and father, and to take a hallowed home which ought to savor of
the peace of paradise and by the exercise of personal liberty to make it
"a place where everlasting horror dwelleth." The departure of the personal
liberty heroes left room for the entrance of peace; and the conclusion of
us boys was, " Better no father at all than one who supports the salooiu"
Sunday Desecration.
In my journeys to and from church and school, Sundays as well as
other daj's, 1 could not help but see much that was degrading. Sunday was
desecrated in a disgraceful manner by unmolested saloons, then as now the
dishonor of the Central City. One picture painted on my memory in those
days will remain there always, showing on one hand how low liquor will
cause its victim (o fall, and on the other how exceeding patient some pious
people can be in tolerating the most outrageous abuses lor fear of hurtinj
the feelings of some other supposedly pious person, namely the saloonkeeper.
One Sunday afternoon as n very large number of us children were leaving
St. Johns' church after our religious instructions, our young eyes beheld
the inspiring spectacle of a husband and wife, out in the dust of the street,
righting each other with blows and curses. Thev had come from a neigh-
1 boring saloon, the key to which, as I now think of those boyhood days,
could have been somewhere at the bottom of the Grand river, its practical
; rises being called for so rarely. In our group were two sons of those unfor
( tunato exponents of iersonal liberty and with us they beheld with inde-
scrioable sorrow and contusion the shame or their parents.
Our hearts sank within us through compassion for our boyish associates
and in silent pity we stole away from the hideous monstrosity we then
knew not how to prevent. or mitigate. At that time a saloon with its natural
inevitable consequences was to me like a stormy, sloppy weather on a free
day, something very unpleasant and undesirable, but still beyond man's
power to ward off or remove. '
At 17 I left homo for Assumption college, Sandwich, Ont., with the
idea in my mind that if there is anything in our civilizaton we can well
afford -to do without; that thing is the American saloon. A Catholic boarding
school offers its fortunate pupils the very largest measure of real protec
tion from the dangers and follies of youth. Despite all this more than
motherly zeal for the protection of young men, the saloon will at times get
in its deadly work. And so it happened on one or two occasions in the
four years of my college life, I saw ignominiously expelled from our ranks
a few students who went back to the parents they had betrayed, the brothers
and sisters they had. defrauded and the homes they had dishonored. Tho
advantages of higher .education, won for them by the saving and sacrifices
of parents and family they bartered in the righteous, glorious cause of per
sonal liberty, for the privilege of standing at a bar and sending money
which represented the brow sweat of sacred kindred, for the vile stuff which
steals away men's brains and brings them to the point,
"When in swinish sleep
Their drenched natures lie as in a death."
For those sad disasters in the lives of a few of my college associates, I had
to thank the. noble, aggregation of right honorable defenders of personal
liberty, who tell , us. the saloon door must swing open, it matters not how
many and "how precious may be the treasures that hopelessly aro engulfed
in the high tides' of evil that sweep at the full from the portals of tho
' (Continued on eighth page.)
