RIGHT HERE
' IN RICHMOND
Allrccticc Homes for Sale or to Lei.
See T.-D. Want Pages.
MANY ANXIOUS
TO FIND OUT REAL
ATTITUDE OF U. S.
1
?Vants to Know What Meas- j
ures Are Nccessary to
Satisfy Demands.
I
/RISIS COMES TO HEAD IN
MIDST OF EASTER SEASON !
3ublic Men Widely Scattered and 1
Their Views Not Quickly
Assembled.
3.%X.VOT iU'SH WOUK ON KttPl'Y j
liam-pllor and Advisers Kealize
Fully Disadvantages of
Break.
BLRLIN*. April 25 'via London).?The j
Vmorlcan ambassador, James W.
>or?rd, is to have another conference i
vlth Dr. von Beihjnaiin-liollwep this ?
ift?*rnoon prior to th?? Imperial Chan-j
?ollor's departure lor great hcadquar- i
trs
At th? For'lgn Ofllce th? corrospon- :
Jems wrr? informed that the Chan- i
?rllor devoting tho holiday* lo j
:onfer??nces on the submarine issue with 1
he <;? 'artmentB concerned. These have 1
lot been concluded
The rnnin purpose of th? Imperial j
Chancellor's flying trip to Berlin has
bt*en, as Ik evident from his protracted i
?onf??rence with Ambassador Gerard on ?
Monday, the desire t>? obtain uh clear
m Idea as poF.sfible of tho attitude and ;
policy of the American government. J
what, If anything, lies behind and he- 1
vond the American note, and what ;
measures are necessary to satisfy the I
American dein.ind. V?efore the momen- j
tons deelrion i? 'aktin by the ICmperor i
and his advisers ax. headquarters.
The crisis has come to a head in the :
nddvt of the Master holidays a reason
playing a highly important role In
German life, when public rrit-n are
widely scattered from Borlin, and their]
vi'ws, which the Ktnperor would
naturally wish to ascertain hefore ?
reaching a decision, not quickly a?
Kerr.blfrt Thus th^ formulation of a
r<-ply to the American note, which ??rc
? nmablv would spell p? aca or war,
cannot be ru?he-l.
nolT. UK 5SK'ITI.K3IB.\T
IS NOT TBI AIIA\nOM;oi
So f.tr ms Geimany Is concerned, thero
Is !-1>X1 a possibility of a settlement,
o;id hope hi* not !>een abandoned h^re. '
But tlw* Germans, as If apparent from {
many tonvi-rsattons* whi ?> the Associ-l
ated Press has had with prominent men :
ainee the beginning of this crisis, wish j
to know beioio riving their answer,
what sort of answer would satisfy the j
United States, whether assurances of a'
properly conducted submarine cam
paign would bo adequate, anil whether'
concessions now would be the pr?*l <d'*
to f"?(her demands bit*:.
It can be stated positively that Dr.'
von Bethmann-Hollwcg and hid ad
visers realize fully the disadvantages'
of a bre.ik with tlM United States, and
that they <in not desire it if it can
be avoided. Hut they leel, if a break:
must com* ultimately, it would be use-j
le?? to indulge in concessions and com-j
promises now, ;?nd llut they might as
w< !1 have th? matter stilled.
Ambassador (tcrard conferred on
Monday with the Imperial Cnanceilor ]
aW>r??. none of the Chancellor's advisers j
participating: in the Interview. He was j
able to give the Chancellor positive or
authoritative information on the limits
of the policy, beyond the notes them-!
selves, but the "Washington policy, sol
far as it was Indicated In the various I
nottr? to Germany, it Is understood, was ?
discussed lengthily and possible solu- I
tlona to the questions which have I
given rise to the crisis were consld- j
ered In this lone and confidential In- i
tervlew, concerning which the ambas
sador naturally declined to talk.
iwiu.ns f.ovc; \rcor.VT
TO SKCHRTAHY MXSl.VG !
Mr Gerard immediately cnblod a long !
account of the conversation to Secre- j
tary Lansing, and t!te feeling here is:
If he were to obtain an answer from |
him bofore the German council Is con- j
eluded and a decision adopted, !t might :
uld materially in the solution. There j
is little expectation of that, however.
There has been a distinctly better,
atmosphere in Berlin of late. Follow-1
ing the publication of the American t
note, an air of gloom prevailed, and
many men spoke of a rupture as in- j
ovitable. The word now is that a set-'
tlerncnt is within the reach of possi
bility 8nd range along the. use. of the t
word optimism, and the last bit of,
pessimism has been abated, and every-j
whore one hears tho query: "What j
does America want? Can wo satisfy
President. Wilson without abandoning!
tho submarine campaign, or doe3 he;
want to prevent us from winning tho:
war?" 1
During tlie crisis there has been an ;
utter absence, of unfriendly demonstra-i
Hons against Americans. The. down-!
town streets for three days have been'
Jammed with holiday crowds, but there ;
ktis not been the slighlofit intimation
aT any deslro to orgnnizc a demonstra- i
ilon against the American embassy, or:
*ven of popular curiosity regarding the I
doings there, and the big square be-:
tween the embassy and the Chancellor's!
palace has been left to th? undisturbed1
and Jnzy tenancy of one policeman and
ono "plainclothes man," who for months
have been posted before the embassy.
DFlPHBflATKS ItBPOTlTS THAT
, CONCESSIONS AUK PRODAnidl
WASHINGTON. April 25.?Secretary
Lansing, In a conference to-day with1
newspaper correspondents, deprecated'
the publishing of reports that reports j
to the State Department from Am I
(Continued on Second Pago.) [
BORDER SITUATION
TO BE DISCUSSED
BY ARMY OFFICIALS
Generals Scott and Funston
Will Hold Conference
With Obregon.
INSTRUCTIONS EXPECTED
AT SAN ANTONIO TO-DAY
Americans Expected to Explain
Attitude of U. S. Regarding
Pursuit of Villa.
CHASE >n;KT BE RELENTLESS
Poi-HliiiiK's* Troops Now Occupy Po
rtions on 1-iine With Strength
ened Centers.
SAN ANTONIO. TEX . April 25.?Gen- i
erals Scott and Funston arranged to I
leave to-morrow for El Paso to die- I
cusa with General Alvaro Obregon. Mln- j
ister of War of the d? facto govern- !
nient. the situation created by the prea- (
enco of American troops in Mexico.
Whether General Obregon, who |
reached San Luis Potosl to-day on his
way north, will go to Juaroz, opposite;
El J'atso, or to some other point on !
the border, haw not been definitely ?
nt.iied, and late to-night the War lie- ,
partmeut was requested to ascertain
and advifio General Scott where the j
conference would take place.
General Obregon could get to Earedo j
or Eagle Pass more quickly than to El !
Paso, but dispatches from Mexico City j
and Washington Indicated that he was
going to El raso. To get there he will ?
have to pass through the United States, j
after entering either at Laredo or i
Eagle Pass, or go through a district |
between Torreon and Chihuahua that Is j
infested with Villa's men.
SPECIFIC IVSTHCTTIONS
TO UK SENT TO SCOTT
General Scott was advised by the ;
War Department to-day that specific
instructions concerning the character!
of the discussion he. is to have with '
Obregon will b>; forwarded to him to- I
morrow. It Is believed by both of them '
and h> arfny otflcers generally that '
General '"'bregon will be given to un
derstand that the United States expects ?
lie pursuit of Villa to be rnnt inti"d (
relent less'.y. either by his de facto
forces or by those of the United States,
and that the United States government .
will look to his government to gain j
such control of the Mc*lca?t fronJlerj
that such a raid as that at Colmnbna |
cannot be repeated.
General Pershing's troops now occupy
positions along n shortened line, with
strengthened centers at Namiquipa and
Casas Grande?, from which supporting
forccs could be dispatched rapidly to'
any point required The de facto
forces in Northern Mexico were esti
mated at not less than -10,000, including
troops In and about Torreon. Military
men realize that General Obregon's
disposition of his northern troops has'
been such as to make his position re-'
markahly strong.
OBHECJOX EXPECTED TO REACH
noituEn nv thursijav night
WASHINGTON. April 25.? General'
Alvaro Obregon, Minister of War o
the Mexican lie facto government. Is
expected to arrive at the border for
his conference with Major-General
Seott by Thursday r.lgfit at the latest.
General Scott will be attended at the
conference by Brlgadler-Gentrs 1 Fun
ston. and It is understood General Ob-1
regon will hrlng with him several Car- j
ranza generals personally familiar with
the situation in Northern Moxlco
There were no developments here to- i
day either In the military or diplomatic!
aspects of tho Mexican situation. Gen
eral Funston forwarded delayed mes
sages telling of the killing of a trooper
of the Tenth Cavalry bv si sniper nearly
two weeks ago, but giving no details. 1
The State Department had reports of i
continued quiet in various parts of
Mexico, and al.so messages indicating
that the presence of tho American
troops beyond the border might influ- 1
once the. price, of Cnrranza currency i
adversely. Oflicials thought it possible!
this was one of the reasons that im- !
pel led Catranza to urge withdrawal of!
the American forces. It was pointed
out that while the soldiers remained in .
Mexico it was improbable that any loan '
could be negotiated by the de facto
government, and thnt their presence
also cast enough doubt on the Immedi
ate future tjicro to depress exchange
rates. East quotations fixed the price
of Carrnnza money at 1 cents on the
dollar.
PUOYISIOVS TO CAIinV
KOnCBS I P TO MAY 15
It was announced officially to-day
that (he forces in Mexico have provis
ions on hand to carry them up to May
la at least. In addition, the lines of
supply are so well established that
every emergency can be met promptly. .
It Is understood also that arrangements i
have been completed lo supply tlie cav- !
airy commands beyond the border with j
additional mounts during the. period of |
recuperation which is to follow the I
redisposltion of the American forces.
There will be no further develop
ments in the situation until after the
conference between Generals Scott nnd
Obregon unless the troops are attacked.
Tho whole matter of the pursuit of
Villa or the withdrawal of the Ameri
can troops Is at a complete standstill
temporarily.
Thero Is much speculation aa to just
what, will he discussed at that confer
ence. Mexican v embassy officials pro
fess to believe details of the withdrawal
of the Americans will be considered.
In other quarters it is generally re-'
garded as more likely that General!
Scott will urge increased co-operation
by Carrnnza troops In the stnmplng out
(Continued on Third l'agc.)
REBELS AND BRITISH TROOPS
IN ALL-DAY BATTLE IN DUBLIN
The World's Greatest Military Conference
Grouped around this Council board are the men intrusted with the working out of the destinies of their respective countries. The greatest
statesmen aud generals of the allied countries are gathered here planning for further co-operation to defeat the Teuton powers. Each country has
sent her most astute diplomats and brilliant military men to represent her at this meeting. Starting on the extreme left and moving to the right*
around the table are: Premier Asqulth. of Kngiand; Lord Hertle. Sir Kdward Grey, David l.loyd George, one of the secretaries; Lord Kitchener, an
Knglish military aid; Sir William Kohertson, Premier of Italy Salnndrn, Ambassador Tittoni, Boron Sonnino, General C'adorna, an Italian secretary;
Mr. Matsui, General Chagas, M. Isvolsky. General GUlinski, Premier Patchitch, General Vesnitch, General Yovanovitch, General Itochitch, General de
Castlenau, General Joffre, another 1'Yench secretary; Premier Ih-iand, Cieneral Koques (standing) and General Bourgeois.
GREAT BRITAIN DEFENDS
NEUTRAL TRADE POLICY
Practices Complained Of by United
States "Juridically Sound
and Valid."
Firrc.YCFf-GOVERNMENT CONCURS
Commission Appointed to Find Ways i
to Minimize Delay?Allies Pledged !
to Mako Restraints as Little Bur-;
densomo as Possible.
WASHINGTON*. April 25.?The latest '
British note in answer to Ameriran
protests against allied interferences '
with neutral trade, made public to- j
night at the State Department, cor,- j
tends that the practices complained of j
are "juridically found and valid." ami
that the relief which neutrals seek is
rather to he obtained by the mitigation |
of necessary hardships than by "abrupt ;
changes either in theory or application
of a policy based upon admitted prin- [
<-H>les of international law carefully'
adjusted to the altered conditions- of |
modern warfare."
It discloses that "an impartial anrt ;
influential commission" has been ap- i
pointed to find ways to minimize d*- j
lays, and pledges the allies to make
their restraints on trade as little our
densome to neutrals as possible.
The note, in which the French gov
ernment concurs, reiterates the mili
tary necessity of re.gulating commerce
to neutrals contiguous to Germany,
and justifies the etTectivenftss of the.
blockade, which was challenged by the
last American note.
More diplomatic correspondence over
the issue Is expected to follow.
t.NAM.MITV OF SENTIMENT
FOR I'ROTISCTIOX OF RIGHTS
The unanimity of sentiment among !
tlie world's neutrals for the proteo
tlon of neutral rights is recognized in |
the British note, which refers tu the 1
subject in terms embracing not the
rights of trade alone. It says in con
clusion :
"His Majesty's government nave
noted with sincere satisfaction the in- ]
titration contained in the concluding
passages of the United States note, of
the intention of the United States to
undertake the task of championing: tho
Integrity of neutral rights.
"The first act of this war was the
unprovoked invasion by tho enemy of
neutral territory?that of Belgium
which he was solemnly pledged bv
treaty to protect. . . .The disregard
of neutral rights has .since been ex
tended to naval warfare by the. wan
ton destruction of neutral merchant
ships on the high seas, regardless of
tlio lives of those on board. . . . His
Majesty's government would welcome
any combination of neutral nations
under the lead of the United States
which would exert an influence to pro
vent the violation of neutral rights, xnd
they cannot believe that they or their
allies have much to fear from any
combination for the. protection or thoue
rights which takes an impartial and
comprehensive view of the conduct of
this war, and judges it by a reasonable
Interpretation of the generally ?e- I
cepted provisions of International w^r.
and by the rules of humanity that have
hitherto been approved by lite civilized
world."
DISPATCH FRUSTRATED
n\ I NCSUAI, METHODS
At the outset the note suggests that
the American complaint is not so much
that shipments Intercepted really wero
intended for use in the European neu
tral countries to which they were dls
patched as that the dispatch of goods
to Groat Britain's enemies Itad been
frustrated by methods not hitherto em
(Continued on Second Page.) ,
Airships, War Vessels
and Undersea Craft ?
in Lowestoft Battle
Y
Graphic Account of Unpre- j
cedented Fighting Given in
Official Statement Issued
by the Admiralty.
[Special Cable to The Times-Dispatch.)
LONDON, April "5.?A remarkable
battle of airships, war vessels and un
dersea craft was fought off the north
east coast of Kngl&nd just as dawn ,
was breaking to-day. I
A German cruiser squadron accom-j|
panlcd by Zeppelins and submarines, 1 ?
bombarded Lowestoft, 100 miles north- \
east of London at t:3n A. M.. and was
driven off after a twenty-minute battle I
in which British light cruisers, destroy-!
er? and aeroplanes took part.
A graphic account of the unprece-j
d'nteil fighting, which raged simul- !
taneously on the sea. above the sea an<l
nnder the sea is given in an oltic.Sal
statement issued to-night by the ad
miralty. The statement says:
"During the operations with the Ger
man battle cruiser squadron off the
east coast this morning, two Zeppelins
were pursued by naval and land ma
chines over sixty miles out to sea.
Bombs and darts were dropped, but
apparently without serious effect.
"An aeroplane and a seaplane at
tacked the German ships off Lowestoft,
dropping heavy bombs. Four German ?
submarines also were attacked by
bombs. one seaplane came under a
heavy file from the hostile fleet, but the
pilot, though seriously wounded, suc
ceeded in bringing his machine safely
back to land. It Is regretted that one
pilot is reported missing. He ascended
during the Zeppelin attack earlier In
the morning and appears to have at
tacked a Zeppelin off Lowestoft at
about 1 :f*i> A. M. He has not been
heard from since.
"About seventy bombs were dropped
in the Zeppelin raid on Norfolk
and Suffolk Counties. One man is re
ported seriously injured."
IIBITIMI St I'KB l? IlAMViK
TO TIKtr.K W.MI VKSSIOLS I
lit addition to the missing pilot the |
British suffered damage to two light)
cruisers and a destroyer. The material j
damage of the bombardment of Lowe
stoft. is said tu have been small. Two j
men, one woman and a child were killed
In their beds.
The sea raid on ISnglaml was the
climax of a day of unusual activity by
sea and air fleets. The German war-!
ships crossed the North Sra in the wako,
of a lleet of Zeppelins, four or five in j
number, which appeared over the Nor
Attention, Every Citizen! j
This will l?e the opening day for |
IHehiiMind'M International League j
buacbnll team.
Hvrry citizen Hint can possibly do
mi nlioiild be at the opening game.
Tlie miiniifnetnrer*. the Jobber*. the
hanker*, Insurance. rctnll merchant*,
profcNHlonaI men, and every head of
Hie city** department* should Join
In the Nplrlt of the occiimIoii.
Do thin for Richmond.
iticinioND cii.vmiikii
or cojniKiici:.
Another Air Raid
on English Coast
LO.\l)U\, April 2(1.?Himlllo nlr- !
olilpn rnlilcd the ( onnllejt ot Msnc.t I
nntl Kml Tuesday nlclit. neeorUIng
to un oflloial Htmenirnt.
"The number of rniilrrn I* uncer
tain." tlie communication adilM. "but
tliey did not vxcrcil four. Tlir raid
er* were met l?j" n brisk nntlnlrornft
Kuutlre. nml ret rented nfter ncoom
pllshlnf; little or nothing."
folk coast between 10:3?> and 11 o'clock
last night and dropped seventy in- ,
eendiary bombs. The real object of tho I
dirigibles, apparently, was to determine j
whether the path was dear for tho
warships. Radio dispatches are "be
lieved to have started tho naval force
on its way. The damage .lone by the
aerial bombs is otlicially stated to have
been insignificant One man was In- .
j n red. j
The German raid on England fol- J
lowed a. tierce bombardment by British ;
warships of the German positions along
the Belgian coast yesterday. First i
news of this action was received to-:
day by way of Amsterdam. Heavy |
damage is said to have been inflicted 1
on the German defenses, and several
destroyers and other light craft were
driven into the harbors. Several of,
these vessels arc reported to have been
hit. Some are said to have been sunk, j
HO.tl H A It I>1.1 >
111' HHITISII IVAitSlill'S
An Exchange telegram from Flush
ing. on the Dutch coast, says:
"Several British warships, accom
panied by destroyers and other vessels, i
yesterday bombarded Zfcebriigffo and
the German batteries off Ileyst,
Blatikenburghe and Knocke. The bom
bardment was one of the heaviest sin
the beginning of the war, and also of
the longest duration.
"The damage done at Zeebruggo is
said to have been enormous. The
harbor and docks were * it several
times and some ships were ink.
"British aircraft also throw homos
on German batteries."
A Central Nows dispatch from Am
sterdam says that the British bombard
ment of Zeebrugge was answered by
three German destroyers. Those, It is
reported, were driven hack into Zee
brnuge harbor in a badly damaged
condition.
In retaliation for the sea attack, live
Herman battlo planes descended yes
terday evening- on the French port of
Dunkirk, dropping six bombs. A French
War Office report says that one woman
was killed and three men wounded.
Tlie material dnm.ige was slight.
<11ASI'.I) IIV llftlTIStl
t'lll'lSEHS .? VII lir.STnOYKns
The admiralty earlier in the day is
sued the following statement on the
naval raid:
"At about 4:30 o'clock this morning
the German battle cruiser squadron, ac
companied by light cruisers and de
stroyers. appeared off Lowestoft. Tho
loon I naval forces engaged It. and in
about, twenty minutes It returned to
Germany, chimed by our light cruise,?*
and destroyers.
"On shore two men, one woman and
(Continued un Second. Puge!)
EXCEPT IN LORRAINE
Rig Guns, However, Continue TlieLr |
Itaiu of Shells on Opposing
, J?PJ*iU9Wfo j - i
FRENCH REPULSE GERMANS
j
Violent Roinbaiilnient Northwest of,
Verdun and Around Mouhtnville. j
Russians Suffer Heavy Losses in |
Attack Near Garhunovkn.
Except In Lorraine, there han been'
an entire absence of Infantry fighting
on tin* western front. The big pun?,
however, have continued their rain of
shells on opposing positions at various i
points.
At La f'hapelotte, in Lorraine, the
Germans launched a heavy infantry
attack against the French, which was
repulsed. Some of the Germans ob
tained a footing in a portion of the
French salient, but later were driven
out with heavy losses.
Around hill No. Hut and in the region
of ISsnes and Cumieres, northwest of
Verdun, the bombardment continues In
tense. To the east of Verdun, around
Mnulanville, there also has been a vio
lent bombardment. In the Argonne the
Krcnch have destroyed with their guns
a German post and shattered a German
trench over a email front. Considera
ble aerial activity by the French air
man. in which four German machines
were brought down, la reported by!
Paris.
On the eastern front near Gar-!
bunovlta the Russians made a heavy
attack against the Germans, but, ac- i
cording to l>erlin, were repulsed with
sanguinary losses. Heavy artillery on-,
gagement* are still in progress in the
upper Cordevole ami Monte San Michcle
zones of th<* Auslro-1talian front.
The lirltisli nfhcial communication
from Mesopotamia says the British arc'
still holding their lines on the right
bank of the Tigris against tho Turks. j
and have somewhat extended them at
one point by driving in the Turkish'
pickets.
(ilOUM.A > I'OST A V n TltKM'K
in:srito\r.n in i jti;xni!
PARIS, April IT..?Tho oflicial com-i
inunicatlon to-night re-ads:
"North of tho Ai.stie after artillery)
preparation our troops captured this
morning a small wood south of the'
Rols-des- Unties (region of Ville-au-i
Poise j.
"In the Argonne our heavy batteries!
destroyed a German post and shat-i
tered an enemy trench to the extent :
of about fifty meters. In the sector of !
Four-de-ParIs, at Mil 285. the Germans!
exploded a mine. Our barrier tire pre- !
vented the enemy from occupying fho
crater, the southern edge of which we
occupied.
"West of ihe Meuse there was an in
tense bombardment at hill not In the
region of Ksnes and t'uniieres. Kast of
tho Mcusc the day was very r|iilct.
"In Lorraine to the southeast of
Rndonvlllers tiie Germans, after an in
tense! bombardment delivered about
noon a strong attack against a salient
which formed our line at La Ohappe
lotte. The attack was completely re
pulsed. Some enemy groups whlrh had
Rained a footing In the northeast part
of the Hutlenr were driven out In tho
afternoon and In part exterminated by
our tire. We took about fifteen pris
oners, one of lhem an otflcer.
"Aviation: Near Va-iuols, an enemy
aeroplane compelled 10 land Inside his
lines after a combat, was destroyed
by our cannon. In the region of Ver
dun one of our pursuing aeroplanes
(.Continued on Second Payo.)
TWELVE PERSONS
KILLED; SCORE OF
OTHERS WOUNDED
Revolutionary Outbreak At
tains Considerable Pro
portions.
CASUALTIES OF RIOTERS
NOT YET ASCERTAINED
First Announcement of Trouble
Made in House of Commons
by Chief Secretary Birrell.
SITUATION* NOW WTCLL IN HAND
Disturbances Confined to Capital,
Other Localities Iteportlng
Conditions hs Quiet.
T.ON'DOX, April 25.?Almost coinci
dental with the capture of Sir Roieer
t'asemcnt, leafier of the Trlsb separatist
faction !n Ireland, while he was at
tempting to land from a German aux
iliary. there has occurred in Ireland an
outbreak of considerable proportions'.
As far as lias been announced by
the government, only Dublin lias been ..
affected. Here fighting took plane all
day between loyalists, policemen and
soldiers and members of the Sinn Fein
?Society, who had captured the post
office. and Stephen's Green and numer
ous houses in various parts of the. city.
Three of the officers of the troops,
four or live soldiers, two volunteers
and two policemen were killed, and
about a score of others wounded. The
losses of the revolutionist.1? have not
been made known.
The government reports that the
military authorities now have the situa
tion well In hand.
Dublin has been the scene of se
rious fighting- between members of the
Sinn Fein Society and regular troops
re-enforced by loyal volunteers. The
loyalists lost about 11 dozen men killed
and nineteen wounded. The casualties
of the rioters have not been ascer
tained. Many of the disturbers were
arrested.
The trouble started at. noon on Mon
day in the center of Dublin, when a
mob seized Stephen's Green, a. large
park near the Royal University; the
post-office. where the telegraph and
telephone wires were cut, and houses
in various parts of the town.
TflODI'S 1IASTII.V St!MMO\RD,
A Mi FIGHTING BEGINS
Troops from the Ourragh and loyal
volunteers we.ro hastily summoned, and
ns:httiiR between them and the mob
began almost immediately.
An official communication concern
ing the disturbance was Issued this
evening. It says:
"At noon yesterday serious disturb
ances broke out in Dublin. A large
party of men identified with tho Sinn
Fein party, mostly armed, occupied
Stephen's Grcon and took possession
forcibly of tlio post-office. whore they
cut tho telegraphic and telephonic
wires. Houses also wore occupied la
Stephen's Greon, fiackvllle Street. Ab
bey Street and aiong the quays.
"In the course of the day soldiers
arrived from the Curragb. and the
situation Is now woll in hand. So far
rs Is known here, three military of
ficers, three or four soldlors, two loyal
volunteers and two policemen have
been killed and four or five military
officers and seven or eight soldiers and
rix volunteers wounded. N'o exact In
formation has been received of the
casualties on the side of the Sinn
Feiners.
"Reports received from Cork. Lim
erick. Knnis, Tralee and both Ridings
and Tlpperary show that no disturb
ances of any kind have occurrod in
these localities."
Tho first announcement of the trou
ble was made in tho Houso of Commons
to-day by Augustine Rlrrell, Chief Sec
retary for Ireland, who said th^t the
situation utis well In hand, but that
communication with Dublin was still
difficult.
MM AG Hit OFFICIAL DBTAII.S
ON'I.Y FACTS OBTAINAm.fl:
I bo only details surrounding tho
situation arc the meager ones con
tainer! in the oftlci.il announcement, but
government officials expressed the opin
ion to-nicht that, with Sir Roger Caso
nient and two of his aids In prison in
London, the troops were in control of
the situation.
Mr. lilrrel! said that twelve persons
had been killed before the disturbances
were riuellcd. Mr. Hirrell declared that
the rebels were, in possession of four
or five different parts of the city of
Dublin.
He also announced that four or five
soldiers had been killed.
Mr. Rirrcll made his announcement
In reply to a question by Commoner
Craig Immediately after the assembling
of the house. He said that the post,
office had been formally taken podses
slon of and Hint telegraphic communi
cation had been cut.
In the course of the day, however,
Mr. Itlrrell mild, aoldlera arrived from
the Ourragh and the situation was now
well in hand, although as communica
tion still was exceedingly difficult, he
was not able to glvo any further par
ticulars. But the house, he continued,
might take it from him that tho situa
tion was well in hand. The Chief Sec
retary for; Ireland stated there h&4
M
