.
' I I . . tiA UIMJRf L THE WEATHER FORECAST.
it shines fok all U il P jfilOH&ils W J JKfSS'
I sssss I mfeuCdSvlBPiEuS $W JsssVssL' A tBBpBl Highest -temperature yesterday, 52; lowest, 4'
1 CSH9SiBdSrM!3lH0VHBBVIsS . sss sassnsawA Detailed weather, mall and marine report on p&gei 5, T,
01,. LXXXIII. NO. 239. NEW YQRK, WEDNESDAY, APRIL 26, 1916. copyright, hh, b gMtt muff,,,, nd MtoMdllJ ' PRTflE TWO r.ENTfl. j
HOLLWEG SEES
GERARDiSPEEDSI 0F- troubled activities
DAWTA I ICDD lInventor of So-Called Substitute Gasolene Once In-
DAUJWUIVAJODR
Secivlar.v Lansinjr Has Xo
Winil Kroin Amlmssn- '
diir on Xote. '
FKA II (iKKMAXY WILL
ASK KUK JIOKK TIME
Yet Lull in V limit Activi
ties (lives Cause for
lleneweil Hope.
riil'SSl'031 MENTIS
c.fi'V if iVi-iitt irimiivl sending some money on the dis
bhh.N Ab ( OMILIA LOR nvery "HI that It didn't umount to
I much after all.
I Knrlcht says his artltlclal stone was
i the real thing and Is now being manu-
MIUIHMIII DIUl l .IH?U1 ,
to lie Demand That Brit
ain Knri Blockade.
(pedal Cable Iletpatchee lo Tat Sis.
I'tnUN, by wireless to London, April
, , . , , . ,,
m.ined by telephone to call on Dr. von
rthm.tnn-UollwtB, the Imperial Chun-i
, .h.
ttllor. this morning,
The Chancellor returned to the field .
quarters of the German army In aplea" ;r,der7"was red
the west after his conference with Am- 1 as to the first count and Knrlcht was
tifMdor Gerard and consulting with rNombr'lsTlS'oe"6 "KlJ l"e
officials of the Foreign Office and po- A certified copy of the Indictment Is
' Bl'cal leiders ' ln ,lle """session of New Work tlrm of
.' , , ,i lawyers. It sets forth that Knrlcht
LOMON, April .'6. The Copenhagen had published an advertisement, be-
corrcspondent of the Daily Mull for- Bl!,"l"5.V, r,
wnl- the following despatch from ,,,,'yoc "oW ffrTl5offi
r"n. t free In either of the following places."
"After conferring with Ambassador! The names of nine places In Tennes
Gtrard and Foreign Minister von Kentucky and Ueorgla followed.
Jagoiv. Chunccllor von llethmann-Holl- ' Tl,e advertisement continued:
nfc convened V slain' council nf nil1 "All A 1 farming land. No swamps or
r.r,m.ti. m H ,,,B t01 llc" or a" rocks. Absolute deed. No restrictions,
Coiern.nen offluials and the leaders ttm, ,, we chdrKe , 3 fl)r m.lkn(f ou,'
t. the political parties. the deed. Send stamp for descriptive
' circulars. This offer closes Novem-
WASHINGTON HOPEFUL; , Llin1 8ynUltate. lfT wLhlnfr
AWAITS BERLIN NOTE ton Street."
i Knricht. said the Indictment, did not
Intend to give away "any lands what
Pii.r. i. (ieriuan will Offer Con- soever," and neither he nor the U. 8. j
frlini Vlena of (irriimn lliri'.'
Uasiiinuto.v. April '.'3. Secretary of
ftnc l..,s,ng I. still without advices'
l orn Ambassador Ocrurd concerning the
Urtn.iu reply to rresident Wilson's de-
an J that Germany "Immediately dc
i i'e and effect an abandonment of its
t,:fei:t methods of subtn.irlnafvarfare." 1
lie ilvuled widely circulated reports '
t it -Mr Gerard had Informed the United 1
cii'es that Germany was prepared to J
r..i!:c c ini-esslons, and added that noth
1. c whatever hud como from Mr. Gerard ;
10 rar exeeptlng extracts from the Ger
r an prci- tending to show how the Uer
t 1 neiuTs hart received the Amer
km 1. ilt
T iere ar" Indications that the delay
C t ic German Government In replying
t) .e lreldent'b demand for "imniedl
te .icttuii Is causing some uneasiness
rre ,i the note has now been before
t ie German otllclal. Including the Kaiser
c m.t i tur nearly n week. But the
LJ.'.t ltb .lw In lehttltior Mr Harnpil urlll
te intructed to reiterate the American I
Knund was met to-day by the answei,
"Not jet
.Meanwhile, the optimistic feeling which
for furtj-eiuht hours has nrevalleil In
cfneU circles hero still (ioUIs. This In
ilue primarily to the continued lull In
.Jl'in.irine activities and a hope that
wne means will be found of avoiding
breach In diplomatic relations between
It two iiovTtimeuts.
Not BIscoiiriiulnK.
Tlie i.end of German newspaper com-
r e ' communicated by Ambassador
Cuanl Is not altogether discouraging,
. ..ul Ainb.ish.idor Pentlcld at Vienna has
iliM extracts from the Austrian and
Hungarian press which strongly indi
cate u ili-slru of the public In Austrla
Hungary to see matters between Berlin
ful Washington amicably adjusted.
It was stated at the German Kmbassy
".nun wmi ouiu von Mcrnsiorn, ine
Crnidii Ambassador, will arrive in
"ahlilng'on to-morrow. Ho is expected
t) urranue. for 11 conference with Secre
tary Lansing to-morrow or Thursday,
tetwor Stone, chairman of the Foreign
Relations Committee, will confer with
I'rcM'letit Wilson to-morrow night unless
Uik of official Information from Berlin
auses another postponement.
. .-in. itii.v imiiisiiik cuaracienzeu me
''lUdtlnii iii:;iiM tn-ihiA' as inichaliired.
apl'ait utiy no one outside the Inner
utile of 1 In; Kmperor's advisers has any
"itnime nle.i uf the reply that Germany
I'mtuiiphtes making, it Is considered
i!.efhH 1.. speculate here and President
nilmti 1. 1 seen tar y Lansing arc nwalt
'z iieriiwny's next move. The Presl
'iit went to Princeton to vote In lire
Kinisuii.ii Conseiiiently there was no
Caiiita-t meeting and the State Depart
r.im un, simply awaiting news from
winirnj
llxpeel Cuiii-rssluns,
Oflidals here regard It as highly prob
wle that Germany will offer concessions
" er reply to the United States, but the
jniKirtiint point, they say. is whethe
Int-fci. ronef-NHinnu win trit ih. rr.i.
. tlent'i ilemiiuils on the one vital Issue
" aiiariiliinment of present method of
'"marine uarfure.
It li feared here that the.aerman Oov
rnrneni will make some counter proK-
tions or deflnite promisea contingent on
"'"liar promises on the part of Great
Britain. The President haa made II clear
nit he will accent nothing abort of a
wnnitB declaration that the present
,. "7 jermany a submarine war-
k..T Dcen abandoned which must be
the cessation of preeent aub
me activities in the war lone.
mui l'"5,Grnin preiw comment 00m-
S . a1t.' hytr- ar" here la talk
Loi'u'l"a"on:nd PO nnw
in4ing between rh (Wo GovemnMnU,
mere in do indication of a wtltln.
V- or. the pan 0f the Oerrnan tiiSW
Ii .thc ffectivftieaa of the: avlemaillM
'ypalgn against. Kncland OfrtMim.'J"y
" (act there la no InatMM .WheW; ttff
Wnricht shown as man
dieted for Part in Land
Originator of an
Several Interesting facts relating to
Hie career of l.ouls Knrlcht of Funning
tlale, 1.. who snys he has discovered
chemical formula which makes of
'water u substitute for gasolene, have
come to light as the result of Investiga
tion here and In Chlcugo.
In the first ,luce his right name Is
Ilenrlcht. This he cheerfully admits,
explaining that the II was dropped off
by a naturalization clerk many years
ugn and he used tho name given him
when he became an American citizen.
He lian gone through bankruptcy three
times. Ho was lined 1500 In Chicago In
1903 for using the malls to advertise
that he would gtvo uway land which, the
United Stales Judge ruled, he didn't own.
Four years ago he claimed the Invention
of a pi m ess for milking artificial Mono
by a new formula and got Into a con
troversy with Ilrltlsh rntiltniut. i,
a ready explanation for every point In
ms iiistory which was set befote him
yesterday, ills claims for the "green
gasolene" have neither been proved nor
disproved by" a scries of practical tests
by disinterested persons. Such tests are
now promised by Henry Ford.
In Trouble With I'. .
Louis Knrlcht was Indicted by the
reuerai urancl Jury In Chicago on No-
.ciiiut-r o, li'irj, on inree counts cnarg-
Ing him with using the malls to defraud.
Un November 11 a plea of not guilty
wa!' ell,frd- The second and third
counts of the indictment .or- ,,n
prossed. On the first count, when the
MUX HKiTY ItKKKN II I.
NOW IN HER 80TH YEAR
Stricken With Paralv.Ms at
Her Son's Home Condi
tion Critical.
Mrs. Hetty Gieen Is reported ns criti
cally ill at the home of her son. Col.
lidward H. It. Green. 5 West Ninetieth
street. She was stricken three days ago,
and her condition last night was reported
1 as critical. Physicians were at her bed-
J,de'- but a" announcements as to her
condition were refused. She is In her
eightieth year.
Mrs. Green has been living with her
son for some time, and her seventy-ninth
birthday recently was celebrated there
with u family party. She still retains
I lior $21 a month flat In llobokcn and
has been seen there recently, although
Ishe has been attending to her business
I n-.Talrs as usual In the house she used
as an office in West Nlncty-nrst street.
It Is said that Mrs. Green only re
centlv finished planning for a house to
be erected nt 7 West Eighty-first street,
which was to be a present to her daugh-
I ter Sylvia, who wan married several
years ago to .vraiinew .sior iiks. 11
is not known where Mrs. Green was
taken III, but she has been nt Col. Green's
home since her condition became alarm
ing. The exact nature of her Illness was
t kliOW, but It was believed that she
had suffered u ntroke of paralysis
Known as thc richest woman In the
world and possessing a fortune some
times estimated at ISO.000,000, Mrs.
Oreen has led tho life of a person of
extremely moderate means and has given
none of the evidences of great wealth.
Hhe has always taken care of her own
affairs and possessed a most unusual
huainehs Hensc. In recent years she has
not been able to take much pleasuie
from living In the Hoboken flat because
of the fact that she was troubled by
uersons who wanted some of her money.
The estimate of her fortune was never
made by any one closely associated with
her. She herself said on her seventy-
seventh birthday that she had no idea
how rich she was. She also said thew
that she was happiest when she was at
work and that she Intended to continue
looking after her own affairs as long as
she lived.
LABOR PARTY DENOUNCI WAR.
Kanllsh Conferenre Ursea Social
lata to Refnse to Serve.
Special Cabtf Petpalch lo Tux Sun.
London, April 26. The Conference of
the Independent Labor Party at New
castle to-day adopted a resolution urg
ing that the socialists of all nations
shall hcucvruiih refuse to support any
war, even on the defensive.
One delegate argued that the invasion
of Belgium formed an .exception and
that the British were entitled to resist
the -Germans In that case. Another re
marked that If alt the workers of the
country had acted upon auch a,resolutlon
at the outset "the Germans Would now
ke In Great Britain."
Such objection were, however. Ignored
by the majority and tb resolution waa
carried unanimously. Another resolu
tion demanded the. deletion of the "idi
otic olauaaa" in the defence of the realm
got, another the unconditional repeal of
The 'munitions act. ,
' :Tbe cluirrsanJn winding up the con-
IH eiil.il im uibmw .inrqweu,
Sale Also Figured as
Artificial Stone.
Land Syndicate then owned or controlled
any such lands, '.'the U. S. Land Syndi
cate being simply the name under which
the said L. ITnrlcht carried on and exe
cuted his said scheme and artifice to
defraud."
III Letter o Jeneller.
The first count of the Indictment was
based on a letter which Knrlcht sent on
December 9. 1801, to V. A. Uustavson, a
jeweller, of Jollet, III. After describing
the virtues of this real estate, tho letter
said :
"We tire sorry to ay that we have
none of the 62 acre tracts left, as tho
applications have largely exceeded the
number we Intend to give away. Tho
other tracta will all be gone In a few
days. But we have reserved for you
three 125 ncre tracts till Monday, Longer
e cannot, and If you delay you will
have to take your chances on getting tho
same. We had no Idea that this would
he taken up us fast as that.
"Very truly yours,
"Tub U. S. Land Stnoicatk,
"I'cr L. Knrlcht, Mgr."
In another letter, mwitloncd ln the
second count ofthe Indictment, which
was not prcmed, Knrlcht was accused of
rendlne a circular letter lo August W.
ihM.r. nil U.i!rr",-K,on' , m; ""'"'"'"R!
that he had given away land In Kentucky
. i-iiiiccivr pu unit ll nvuiu ue semen
and Improved, to the advantage of the
surrounding tracts. The plan worked so
well, tho letter said, that the U.
S. Land Syndicate had put on the
market on the same plan 17,000 acres In
Montgomery county, Oa.
"We are giving uway sixty-three acre
tracts to those we think will be of bene
fit to us." read the circular. "All we
ak In return Is J3 for tho cost of mak
ing out the deeds, certification, notary's
fees, &c. If your application Is le
Jected your money will be returned to
ou In full."
A third letter wan revealed In the
thltd count of the liull.-tment. It .mlniph i'i !,.,...- ,U mi
sent to S.'A. Carter uf Mount Clemens.
...ivii. .tic wrurr aserieu inai me n.
S. Land Syndicate held title to about
2t.O0U acres "In that Harden Spot of the
Blue dross Iteglon of Kentucky, In that
banner county of CSrant." The title. It
wan asserted, was derived "by a grant
Issued by the Hon. Patrick Henry, Gov
ernor of Virginia." The letter continued :
"Before we subdivide this tract we
will give nway a limited amount of the
same In tracts of ten acres each. All
we charge is $2.10 for making out the
deed, notary's fees. &c. There
Is no liner land an where."
Bankrupt .Nine Years l.airr.
Nine years later in a petition In bank
tuptcy filed In the) Federal Court In this
city on October 5. 1910. Knrlcht spoke
of having received ly purchase In 1S!)
title to 2S.OO0 acres of land In nr.nt
Continued on Lait Page.
ALL T. R. MEN LOSE
IN BAY STATE RACE
Hernials Pile I'p Bis: Majority
for Four Independent
Delon-ates at Large.
Boston. April 25. Two or three of
the thirty-two district delegates, elected
to-day to the Itepubllcan national con
vention may prove to be Itooscvelt men.
Otherwise the election was a clean K.veep
for tho regulars.
With ten towns and cities missing the
vole for delegate at large is:
For Itoosevelt ; Cushlng, 35,100; Bird,
S5.1.H; Gardner, 34,806; Washburn.
32,3911.
Unpledged: McCall. U.S22 ; Lodge,
17.715; Weeks, 45.5S8 ; Crane, 15.351.
The only two Koosevelt district dele-
gates elected were Alvln T. Fuller and
r red B. Greenwood, the Ninth Cougres
slonal district. In Hepresentatlve Gard
ners own bailiwick the unpledged candl-
oaics tor district ilelegates beat the
iiimseveii men ny 200.
Gov. McCall. first ott the list of four
uupieugeii ilelegates at large, led the
Bui'i'casiui uci;ei. enator Weeks fell
short of the Ixidge vote, while ex-Senator
Crane, against whom the Koosevelt peo
pie waged a hard tight, ran about een
with Senator Weeks.
Grafton I), f'uslilng. Charles Sumner
Bird, Jteprehcntatlve A. P. Gardner mwl
State Senator Itobert M. Washburn, who
rnaire me race ns ilelegates at large in
an effort to show the country that Mas
sachusetts wanted Theodore Koosevelt
as the Itepubllcan nominee, wcie all de
feated. 'Die only otbi- feature of the primaries
was the light vote cast throughout the
Stiite. The weather was perfect, but not
more than 05,000 Kepublicans rcsjiondcd
to the call of the managers and speakers.
This vote Is about 21 per cent, of that
cast for Gov. McCall last fall.
Mr. Gardner found comfort in the be
lief that If there had been a direct
nomination Koosevelt would have car
lied the State. He made the following
statement to-uiqlit:
"It Is u pity that the vote was 0
lig'jt. Still. If the vote- had been heavy
tho unpledged delegates would have been
elected Just the name. They are all dis
tinguished men, while the Koosevelt dele
gates are much less well known. If,
however, the ballot had afforded the
voters an opportunity to vote directly
for the Presidential candidate whom they
preferred I nm convinced that Koosevelt
would have defeated his nearest competi
tor, probably Justice Hughe, by 15,000
votea."
Few Democrats turned out, Theie
Mere nnly minor contests and rhe dele
gation Is eolldly for Wilson.
UNKIWDE8T CUT OF ALL,
Klaus, Ctyeasjo, Would Iteaame
Shakespeare Ave. for jBaroa.
Ciiicaho, April 25. Alderman Klaus
introduced In the City Council to-day an
ordinance changing the name of Shake
speare avenue to Bacon avenue, and that
of the Shakespeare avenue police station
to Bacon avenue 'police station.
"I'm no Shakespearian scholar," amid
A)drman Klaus, "but I hate to see on
man get away with a thing like that
forever. If Bacon wrote those plays he
iMttM get the. honor we have been gtr
Ing to' tbaktapMr."
: .-I
VILLA BUT 60 MILES
FROM U.S. TROOPS
Consul Letcher Wires Bandit
Chief Is Hiding West
of Satcvo.
PURSUIT WILL 00 ON
Gpii. Otiroffon to Reach Horder
To-morrow for Conference
With Gen. Scott.
Washington, April 25. Francisco
Villa, the Mexican liandl, leader, Is In
hiding In the mountains, sixty miles west
of Satevo, according to a despatch re
ceived at the State Department to-day 1
from Consul Letcher at Chihuahua city.
Letchcr'H latest Information comes from 1
a reliable source. '
Major-Oen. Tasker II, miss, Assistant
Chief of Staff of the 'Army, who received
n copy of the despatch from the State
Department, exprensed the belief that re- :
gardless of the plana under way for a
redlsposltton of the American troops In
Mexico, tlcn. I'ershlng would not hesl- '
tate to go after the bandit If the In
formation concerning Villa's whereabouts
appears trustworthy,
A copy of the L
opy of the Letcher telegram is
understood to have been forwarded to
,Uf.1, I"'"?"0?. by W.Hr 1)f,ar,m("1
communicated to Clen. I'ershlng. At the
present time It is understood there is a
wtfch 'WrX ndown,e,he
due.
At the Mexican embassy this afternoon
tt was s.ild that (Sen, uuregou, Minister
!t;!oX"XX!i
conference with lien. Scott. Chief of
Staff, and Uen. Futvton .it Kl I'aso. Cn-
IcustJeii Obrecon stops off at Chihuahua
It Lrl VtlfPtort :it tils nmliikuf 1 1 1 f tin will
1 day. He Is said to be travelling ou a
, mierini n .innuiitit a i.t- h , t.iin.
tary ald.
Official, of il.e SUM, HeL.Mn....! ..t.
tach much slgnlflcame to the conferenre
on the giound that the attitude which
Clen. Obregou takes wilt doubtless re-
enimem'on' ,he ooTTVr
cooperation between American and Mexl-
can forces In the pursuit of Villa, rather
than u withdrawn! of the Ameilcan
troops.
This Is the proposition, it Is stated,
which Urn. x.-nii will 1t,v l,..r,.. rihr... I
gon and fur that reason no move will be
made bv tu Slate n.imriinem tn un.
"wer the formal note Jf cSEIiim
questing withdrawal pending the out
come of the border conference. 1
The War Department received con- j
Urination to-dny of the press reports sent!
ioni uie not uer earner m trie week tell-
I Mir nf fl.a bill .. ..r .... t.......M
I . . . .. ". ,7 . .: . ' """i"'
in l, jiniii on Ainu 1 ro iietaus are
ki. en hi mu ouiciai uespuicu. wuicn noes
not even contain the name of the sol.
dier killed or the regiment to which
he was assigned.
Gen. Funstou reported to-day that two
battalions of the Seventeenth Infantry
were sent ncroMt the border in Mexico
yeBlerday. This movement is under-1
stood here to be part of the icdliosl-l
tlon of the forces proposed by Gen. Fun-,
ston. The Seventeenth Infantry, It Is
thought, will be used to strengthen the
llne of communications.
Gen. Bliss, Assistant Chief of Staff. I
to-night made nubile the followlne state. 1
merit: I
"Irmiosslble to serai out to look for him
during withdrawal of troops from Pur
tul. Kvery effort Is being made to lo.
cate him with cooperation, uiiparenlly in
good faith, of Prcsldente of lVirr.il. As
soon as Gen. Pershing could communi
cate with American Consul at Chihuahua
requested him to locate Private Klchel
berger." TO CONFER IN EL PASO, i
Gen. Ubrrsrou Wires He Will Keavh !
Inures To-morrow. j
Kl. Paso, Tex., Ajirll 25. In a iocs,
sace to local Mexican officials Gen. AI
varo uhrcguit announced to-night that I
he would teach Juarez tirnbably on
Thunsday and that the conference with
Gen. Hugh L. Scott will be hel.l In i;i
I'nso as soon ns the two American Gen-
cram can get in mis city.
Tills was Htated definitely by Gen.
Obregou, to whom, it Ih understood, the
matter of a place for the conference
had been left. It Is understood that Gen.
Scott, accompanied by Gen. Funston, will
meet Gen. Uhregon, who probably will
be accompanied by Gen. Guvira, Juarez
commander, and Gen. LuIn Gutierrez,
commander In Chihuahua, ntr the Inter
national bridge and that the conference
will be held either it Fort Hilt., or at
some place In Kl Paso lo be decliled
upon by Gen. Scott.
Mexican officials Intimated to-night
that a jirelttnlnary conference probably
would be held In Juarez.
According to what can lie teamed here,
there Is a, belief among army officers
that the conference here will result In
a declaration for Americans to cease
active hunting for Villa bandits In Mcx-1
Ico, but to remain In Mexico in conceu
trutlon cairuw, their activities confined
to restricted areas, for Hie moral effect
It will have on the bandits.
Plants Would llrsume.
This, It Is stated, would give American
cnpltal confidence In the situation and
would result In the resumption of man?
foreign Industries In Mexico, the own
ers feeling secure In resuming work If
the American troops remain near enough
to guarantee protection. Such Industrial
resumption would assure work for many
thousand Mexican natives now starving.
An effort will be made, It Is said, to
Ipdne. the Carransa Government to per
mit the American forces to ship their
supplies by train. The Americans are to
remain inactive as long ns the Car
ranxlstaa are able to control the bandit
situation and when It Is shown to the
satisfaction of the United State that the
bandits hnve been run down the Amer
ican forces are then to be withdrawn.
Meantime the American troops hold
themselves In readiness to cooperate with
the Carransa troops If'they are asked to
do so.
It Is Intimated that siren plans have
been discussed and that It Is only to get
together on the minor points that the
meeting of (Jens. Obregon anil Scott la to
be held bare.
aen. Oavtra and Consul Garcia dls-
Conlinvtd on Fourth Page, ,
"In reference to disappearance of Prl-i heavy tire from the hostile fleet, hut I ? ...'.,! 'v . ,. ';'.'. 1.. .h. ni.
Mite Klchelbi-.ger. Troop M. Thirteenth I the pilot, thouah seriously wounded, n finiiivu i piace, oeiweeu - - , un. -s were maw
Cavalry, Gen. Pershing telegraphs under, succeeded In bringing his machine Lord t.ranard. a tnthollc, who w-as pop-t ..As to ,lle reNol, n ireami a The casualties on t
tnis date that Col. Brown reported on safely back to land. , , . . . Mr o i.ear.v, "1 believe Irish Americans siu". as given out bv t
the 22d that Private Kichelbeiger. more It is regretted that one pilot Is re- ru v imborne. a l rotestant, ror the . ., ;la mucll ln ,hp ,ar. tner Amer. I bureau, are as follows
or less out of his mind, wandered away . ported missing. He ascended during post of I.ord-L eutcn.int. but Premier u.all!li t , n0, kmm. of a.. ,ish I
after the tlelitlm: at Parral. the Zetmelln raid earlier In the morn- 1 Asqultn decided In favor of the latter. Americans Iniolied In miiveniein lit 11..! Ilrnil.
U BOATS, SHIPS AND
ZEPPELINS IN RAID
t
German Fleet Forced to Flce(
Aftej Attack on Northeast i
Const of England. j. ,
Am cTto sJL0RD LIEUTENANT REBEL
British Fliers Shell Vessels
and Submarines Teutons
Put to Flipht.
NEW RAID ON ENGLAND.
Sp trial Cable Detpatci to Tnr. Mc
Iindon, April 26. Another Zep
pelin raid on the English coast took
place to-night. The otllcl.tl state
ment Is as follows:
Hostile airships rallied Khcx
nnd Kent to-night. The number
Is uncertain, but cannot exceed
four. The raiders were met by a
brisk Are of anti-aircraft guns
utid retreated after they had
achieved little or no damage.
Special Cable liripateh to Tnr Sri.
London. Am 11 23. A simultaneous
ralj by a German battle crutaer squad-
iro"' 5?ePPe,ln "d submarines took place
1 this morning at 4 :30 on the seaport of
j0"' BbUt f
, i-onuon,
Written seaplane. crulers and tie-
strojers attackfd the German force and
, n bt-ui" 'u u? i,ir- "a a"d
Ul,"er the sea at the ame time.
Althougti the (ierinan raid wa a
failure. Inasmuch a- only a few shots
. .
w-?ie nred at the British coast, killing
lwo men. a woman ami a child, the Oirr-
,.i ..r..t u AuUfn u. .....i , ..ip ....n.
."'. '""' " ...." -
fttiu tlt-lfl.1. .n.1t lu ..a. .,.(... I !n,t l.l. tlia
t ,!rUlsl1 ofltclals. This pilot wa last
neen fighting a Zepfielin about 1 o'clock In
the morning, during a preliminary raid
foUr S5"""",n' ot Nor,ulk
"ml 's"folk about three hours before the
appearance of the battle cruisers and
-uhin.iriiirs. Another nllot was jerioui.lv
, wounded, but managed to land.
According to a despatch from Am-
1 yterdum British warships accompanied
by destroyers bombarded yesterday the
'o..! naval U.se at Zeebrugge. In
glum, and other towna.
Three British ship. lilt.
ln an ofnclal statement issued this
morning n iu unusu
ni a.r. nrl u ileulrnvet liflil lrf.pt! hit
i r V.V.T. . '
ouriiiK me ensBiseiiiriii. uui nu mi-miuii
" inue "-""' I
pellns and submarines in the attack,
The latest statement issued to-night
! as follows:
During the operations against the
German battle cruiser squadron off
the east coast this morning two Zep-
pellns were pursued by naval and
land machines over sixty miles out to
sea. Bombs and darts were dropped,
but apparently without serious effect,
An aeroplane and a seaplane at-
tacked the German ships off lo)w estop.
dropping heavy bomb". Four German
niiliniiirlties were nlo attacked by
bombs. One seaplane came under 1
lntr nnd annears from reports to have
attacked a Zeppelin off Lowestoft
about 1 :05 A. M. He has not been
heard from lnce. About seventy
bombs were dropped In the Zeppelin
raid on the Norfolk and Suffolk coun
ties. One man is reported seriously
wounded from this air attack.
The A Unci, un l.ovreelnft.
The earlier omclal report telling of the
attack on Lowestoft said :
At about 1 :30 o'clock this morning
n German battle cruiser squadron, ac
companied by light cruisers and de
stroyers, appeared off Lowestoft. The
local naval forces engaged it and In
about twenty minutes It returned to
Germany, chased by our light cruisers
and destroycis.
On shore two men. one woman and
a child were killed. The material
damage seems to have been Inslg-
I ultlcunt so far as Is known at present.
Two British light ciulsers and a de-
ettoer were hit, but none was sunk.
The reort of the British raid on the
Belgian coast camo from itotteriUni to
the (ifly .Villi. It bays:
"There were two bombardments of the
Belgian coast by a British squadron on
Monday.
"Tho first attack was begun at t
o'clock In the morning and lasted for
half un hour, only a few shots being
fired.
"The warships returned shortly after
watd with a stronger force ond for an
hour thero was a severe bombardment
of Xeebrugge, Knocke and thc stretch of
dunes 'between them, which Is sprinkled '
with machine gunn to oppose a lauding. I
A captive balloon directed the tire of the
German guns and was not hit, although
u was shelled hotly
During the bombardment a Dutch
squadron sailed from Flushing to pro
tect tlio neutrality of Holland.
"Details of the damage done have
not been received, but as thc ships' guns
now have thc exact range of the .ee
bruggo positions the damage must have
been considerable."
A report of the British raid, which
camo fioni Flushing by way of Amstet
rjnui, stated that the damage done by 'the
bombardment, which Is characterized us
one of the heaviest und longest during
the war, wan enormous. Tho harbor uml
docks were hit several times und some
ships were sunk. Bombs were dropped
by British aitcraft on German batteries.
The aquadran, it Is stated, consisted
of several British warships, together with
destroyers and other vessels.
The Katt Atiplfdtt Daily 1't'ntes of
Ipswich snys:
"The British warships In the engage
ment off Lowestoft all returned safely.
Two light cruisers were battle scarred,
although not struck In n vital part. A
few were, wounded, ttlthough none seri
ously, Oue of the British destroyer. 1
which on a previous occasion took a
prominent part in the warfare In the
North Sea was again in the thick ot the
fight. A Hhot penetrated her engine
room, but apart from four of the crew be
ing scalded there were no casualties,
"Ho far as can be ascertained the
Continued on Second Poo.
IRISH RE VOL T IN DUBLIN;
CAP TURE PAR TS OF CITY;
12 SOLDIERS ARE KILLED
PRISONER, IS
Baron. Wimborne, Noted Poloist, Said to Be Captive of
Sinn Feiners Irish Here
British for Arrest of Casement.
There was a general report yesterday
In circles that have been Interested In
. Irish Nationalistic propaganda that the
' Dublin Insurrection had been almost
j completely successful and that the Irish
. Volunteers had captured and held as
hostages. Mnron Wimborne, Lord Lieu
tenant for Ireland; Mr. Nathan, Under
Secretary; rten. Friend, commander of
the forces In Ireland ; a number uf stuff
'officers and several hundred British sol-
, dlers.
Another report had it that Baron Wim
borne w.u held not only as hostage for
Irish freedom or further concessions to
1 Ireland, but also that his life would be
forfeited If sir Hoger Casement wcie
executed. Barfln Wimborne and the other
, officials were said to be guarded by Irish
Volunteers.
, 10
n another "cipher cablegram" such as
local lrlsluueii were teportwl to have re-
cetved on Monday night telling of the
uMi was M.ny
disbelieved until the cenor permitted the
n-w to com thro: . yesterday together
with the news of Sir Itoger Casement
' at rest.
Jeiemlah A 0'Lear. president of the
...t.
received the
. . ....... . . ..
u u.e empiiouc esieruay Ul
his office. 3K Park Hon-. Mr. O'Leary
ould not tell a SL'N reporter who was
ptesent when the message was received
" ' - "touchl
such news leaked through because some
Irish cable operator ou the Kerry coast
sllnneil It hv il rnr m.,1 ...i 11
friends' heie,
Baron Wimborne. who has been Lord
, Lieutenant of Ireland since January,
,,.,,, ....
Bel-:15' Known in the United States
for his successful effort in 1914 to bring
,aek ,lle pol cup to L'" from the
United States.
n 1,1. r.n,., .1- .
r ,1(lron , ,9,4 ,,,, b , u.
... . .. . .,.,
1 me son or narou v linljorue arnl Lady
Cornelia Henrietta Maria Spencer-
Churchill, and Is a couln of Wluiton '
Churchill.
lie was educated at Rton and Trlnlt
College, Cambridge, nnd has been both
member of Parliament and soldier. He
has been Captain nf thc Dorsetshire Im
perial Yeomanry and for his services
In South Africa received tho queen's
medal with time clasps. He has repre
sented various districts In Parliament
and from 1910 to 1912 was Paymaster
General, His wife. Lady Wimborne. Is
thc daughter of the second Baron Kbury.
She Is said to own the finest rubles In
the world. Including the famous Hope
IRISH TO MEET HERE.
Plan Demonstration nf Sirapalhy
With Hel.els.
A mass meeting of Irish Americans tn
show their sympathy with the Dublin
Insutrectlon and their condemnation of
the charge of treason against Sir Roger
Casement will bo held here probably on
Sunday.
The decision to call the mass meeting
was reached last night at a meeting of
the directors of the t'ulted Irish Ameri
can Societies, at the office of Jeremiah
A, O'Leary, .IS Park Bow. The call
will be Issued by the following direc
tors, representing all the Irish American
societies! Denis A, Spellssy, Uugeue J,
Flood, Patrick J. Guiiui, John Mulcahy,
Dr. James Merrinian, John Devoy,
Michael F. O'ltourke. Michael Conway
und Mr. O'Leary
While the Immediate object of tho
meeting Is to show tills country and
Kngland that the Irish Americans resent
holly the charge of treason against Sir
Itoger Casement, whom they consider
an Irish patriot rather than a traitor
to Kngland. thc meeting also will be .1
demonstration to give enrouragemcnt to
Irishmen who are fighting for separa
tion from Kngland, Such n meeting,
given official approval by the heads of
all tho Irish American societies, Is ex
pected to have great weight
rands lo Be liaised.
Mr. O'Leary said last night that a
collection undoubtedly would be taken
up, but denied that the money mould be
used to buy arms or munitions for the
Irish rebels. It might bo used, he said
for the relief of the widows and orphans
of Irishmen killed tn the revolution, Ir
Is expected that the meeting will be
held on Sunday nt somn theatre
Besides arranging for tho mecllne the
directors of the Irish societies Issued the
following statement In defence of Sir
itoger Casement .
"Several metropolitan nenspap is
have referred to Sir Itoger Casement us
a 'traitor' and 'renegade.' We desire
to cult to tho attention of thc American
people that the only crime Sir Itoger
Casement hns committed has been that
he loves his country, even unto death
If nuccssary. He did what Washington
and tho American patriots did and now,
by 110 strange coincidence, their foe Is
his foe.
"The United Slates was created by
revolution. Now that the nation Is 1le.l1
and great, this Is no time to asperse t!u.
motives and conduct of men that are
simply following our noble example,
"We feel confident that the American
people, exclusive of Interested elements,
do not approve of the attempts to he
binlrch the patriotic efforts of sir Itoger
Casement and others to obtain tho lib
erty of Iroland."
Irish Here Ignorant of Pint,
Irishmen here were much excited yes.
terday at the news of the Dublin revolt
and the arrest of Sir linger Casement,
Those who would talk, while sure the
troubles were serious, were even mors
' 1 1,3
REPOR T HERE
to Meet and Condemn
sure that Irish Americans had no hand
In, or foreknowledge of them.
Practically every Irishman or Irish
American who has been actively con
cerned in work here for Irish separation
from England disclaimed knowledge of
the origin of the well defined rumors
about town thut Dublin was In revolt,
which rumors circulated on Monday,
many hours before the cable desn.ilehes
telling of Sir Itoger Casement's capture
aim more noura nerore tne news came of
the riots.
Itobert C. Ford, editor of the Irish
Worltt, while sure that Ireland wan In
revolt, said he was afraid there wcie
too many Btltlsh troops to permit of the
revolt being successful. He knew of no
cipher cablegram being received by an
Irishman here announcing the revolt long
before any one el-ie knew of it.
"The revolt Is no surprise to me,"
said .Mr. Ford. "Thete has been discon
tent for some time, and I expected It.
Kery Irishman must rejoice at It."
John Uevny, editor of the. Uaellc
Amrrlcan, would make no statement,
but It was said at his otllce. 16". William
Mreet, that trouble had been nrewltu
slnte the British Government tried to
disarm the Irish Volunteers, a force of
some 2."i0.000 men.
Cull t'nsrliirn a Washing;!
Denis A. Spellls'y of 250 Broadway,
who has beep active In Irish moements
here, said he did not believe the Dublin
affair had been aided from this country,
and then spoke of Sir Itoger Casement,
whom lie knew vhen Sir Itoger was In
this countr .
"He deserves the approval of eery
loer of freedom." he said "He Is In
the same diss with George Washington.
H he were executed the execution
would be condemned by the cMlized
world."
John D. Crlmmlns took rather a dif
ferent view. "It Is all rut to say that
Sir Itoger Is another Washington." he
said. "I think he' crnzv and trying
to make himself n hero. An Invasion of
Ireland is neither feasible nor reason
able. This Insurrection is most deplor
able." Joseph C. Walsh of iriimf, a Ked
mondlte paper, said that the speeches
at the recent big Irish convention here,
when many prominent Irishmen de
nounced Kngluud at a Carnegie Hall
meeting, had served to Inflame Irish hot
heads and imclpltate the revolt.
Jeremiah A. tVI.eaty, president of the
American Truth Society, which has been
called pto.Geiman and pri-lrlsh, issued j l"at ,ne rebels are nut In po.ssewlon
n long statement covering the Casement ' te whole city."
case and comparing it to the case of The trouble started at noun Mon
Theobald Wolfe Tone, who In 1798 sailed . day in the centre of Dublin, when a
from France with an expedition to help n;b seized Stephen' Green a.
Irish rebels. He alo was taken prisoner, I in,.up lliri. nn- ..... , ,. ',.
was sentenced to execution and was said , , 'l, Klla 1'Hvctslty,
to have committed suicide Just as a I "nle"' "N" '' telegraph
stay of execution was grunted because I uml telephone wires wei,. cm, anj
he held a French commission. If Sir , houses In various nrtw of the town.
Itoger holds a German commission, said Troops from the Curragh und J.oval
Mr. O'l.eary. the parallel is exact and Volunteers were hastily summoned
Sir Itoger cannot be executed nd lighting between them nnd the!
t'tilted States to cause Irish Insurrec
tions. If they did decide to bring about I
an Insurrection in Ireland they know
how to get thete to do It ; they would not I
start the movement here. The first I '
heard about trouble In Ireland was when
1 arrived here last night and a news
paper telephoned me M fear there will
bo serious trouble In Ireland It looks
bad for some good Irishmen."
Supreme Court Justice Goff was oue
of the many who refused to comment
at all upon the Dublin uprising. Judge
Goff said that his connection with the
nutl-Ki itish demonstration of Irishmen
in Carnegie Hall had brought him much
criticism, from persons who thought It
111 became him ns an American and a
Supreme Court Justice. Hereafter he
would be silent ou Irish matters, hn
bald.
Justice Daniel Cohalan would say
nothing, nor would the Kev, Father
William B. Farrell. Dr. Thomas A. L'm
met, John D, Moore, Joseph McLaughlin
nnd other Irish Americans who usually
will talk gladly about Irish freedom.
DR. STEIN DIES AT
MEDICAL MEETING!
., , . , .
MOI'tMlllinil S RrOtllOI'-lll-lllW I
Stricken While t'iiliii'
11 I'll per.
Dr Itiihard Stein, a brothei -In-law of
Henry Mnrgcnthnu, Amh.issadot to Tur
key, died suddenly last night of
apoplexy while rending n paper before sn
uudleiice of thirty-five physicians nt the
Acadenn of .Medicine, 17 West Forty-1
third sjtrcei
Dr Stein fell from the platform from
which he was reading before his uiidi..np
knew he was 111. Dr. Percy Frldenberg j
or ; west ritty-nintn street, one of tho
audience, 'nt tempted to revive him, but
found he had died almost Instantly.
Ambassador Morgenthnu was notified
at his home, 30 West Seventy-second
street and went at once tn Dr. Stein's
home to break the news to Mrs. Sophie
Stein. Dr. Isaac Adler of 401 West Knd
avenue. Dr. Stein's Intimate associate, is
seriously 111. so Mr Mnrgeuthau did not
notify him,
Dr, Stein WiiK jears old, and wns
educated at lleldelbetg, where he was
graduated In ISti?. and at Berlin. Ho
came to this country mon ufter his
graduation und commenced practice here.
He was visiting physician at the Ger
man and Lebanon hospitals, and was a
member of tho following medical socie
ties: American Medical Association,
Academy of Medicine, Metropolitan
Medical Society, Harlem Medical So
ciety and Medico-tiegal Society.
Dr. Stein's home was at 71 Vt
Seventy-ninth street.
Rebels Seize Post Office, but
Arc Driven Out b.v
British Troops.
FIGHT STILL RAGING:
CASUALTIES HEAVY
"Rebels Do Xot Hold Entire
City," Is the Official
Report.
i.
SITUATION IX HANI):'
f 03IM0NS IS TOLD
Telegraphic, Communica
tion Is Cut Only Menjrrc
Reports Received.
Spfnal I able Despatch lo Tut Si .
London-, April 25. A serious revolt,
led by the Sinn I-'clners, the ultra
radical lr-Jfli organization, has broken
out In Dublin. For twenty-four hour
bitter street fighting has been In prog
tes.s and late to-night It was still rag
ing. Augustine Hlrrell, Chief Secre
tary for Iri'lnnd, announced In the
ilouae of Commons; this afternoon that
the (3o eminent has the situation ''well
In hand.''
Twelve men had been hilled on the
Government'.- side. Secretary Uirrcll
stated, according tn the last report re
ceived by him from Dublin. The num
ber of casualties among the rebels Is
not known. It Is believed to be con
siderably heavier, as they were facing
un organized military force. Four or
the parts ot the city of Dublin Were in
the hands of the rebels when the Sec
retary last heard from Dublin.
The post otllce, which had been seized
by them In their first rush against the
Government buildings, wan retaken by
Government troops thf.s nflernoon.
-',lli '"-nig 'i. -secretary ulrr' stated
rmol) begun almost Immediately. .Many-
he Government's
he oflicial press
Three military officers
Four or five soldier
Two "loyal Volunteers
Two policemen.
Wounded,
Four or tlvo military oftiiers
Seven or eight soldiers.
Six "loyal Volunteers."
Telegraphic communication with Dub
lin has been cut and for this reason the.
exact status of atTalrh there cannot bo
officially determined to-night. The
statements made by the Chief Secretary
for Ireland and official press bureau
bulletins cover nnl the events of last
night and the cat her part of to-dy.
Information tegurdlug the developments
of tills afternoon and evening Is ex
tremely meugie and unofficial
tie. oil routined i, llnhlln.
Despatches from several parts nf Be
laud late to-night agreed that thus far
the revolt has not spread beyond Dublin
Am olllclal ciininrunlfetlnn issued this
evening concerning the trouble says.
t noon yesterda serious disturb
ames broko out In Dublin. A large,
party of men Identified with thn Sinn
cut the telegraphic and telephonlo
wires, Houses also wer.t occupied In
Stephens Green, Sackvillo street, Ab-
bey street and along tho quajs.
in Hie course of the day soldiers ar
rived from the Curragh und tlie situa
tion Is now well 111 hand.
So far as is known here three mili
tary otllcers, four or five soldiers, two
Loyal Volunteers and two policemen
have been killed and four or tive mili
tary otlUeih atul seven or tight soldiers
and six Volunteers wounded. No exact
Information has been received of the
rristtaltles on the lde of th Sinn
I Feiners.
Kepurts 1 see. veil from Cork. Llm-
erirk, Kurds,. Tialee ami both ridings
jf Tlpperarj mow that no dlstrtr htnres
of any kind have occurred in Hies
localities.
The news of rho Dublin revolt struck
Parliament like a thunderbolt The
House, assembled this morning for the
secret session to listen to the Govern
ment's baring of all Hie facts concerning
Great Britain's military status, with a
view to determining how far the country
must go with ioiiiiulhluii
luminous iold nf Itlslng,
Linked with the attempt huit week by
a Gorman auxlllarv warship to laud
linns in Ireland, which resulted In th
arrest of Sir Itoger Casement and other
prisoners and tlie sinking of the auxil
iary, tlieso tin re events of the Inst
twenty-four hours the revolt In Dublin,
the Zeppelin attack and the raid by
German warships mi the Kngllsh east
coast, are regarded as an ehilx.r.Ue German-Irish
plot. The German part, It is
said, 1 to try to hit Great Britain with
the threefold menace of Invasion, de
struction nnd revolution, while the part
of the anti-English Irish Is to be to
realise their dream ot establishing an
HT'.EAUi. ' t.? ' 1P4-'.' xm.,
