ftf" PT(fS
w
r
SIrttgrc
NIGHT
EXTRA
NIGHT
Ktmnttg
EXT
VOL. II. ttO. 193
PHILADELPHIA, "WEDNESDAY, APRIL 20, 1910.
Conmoni, 1010, it ina louo Ltooti Comfint.
PBIOB ONE O
V TTJV- -, ??' -S '"HfPi-'
TeWrm ' 4
, vf
t
w
'YOU DARE NOT'
SMITH CRIES TO
LOAN ENEMIES
Mayor Flings Challenge in
Face of Those Who
Would Halt Progress
MENTIONS NO NAMES
Insinuates, Though, That Pen-
rose-McNichol Crowd Is
Meant Looks to People
"No net of nolltlclnnn can ilrlTe mo
Into lino by threatening Hie defeat of tlio
transit or enernt lon. I don't lielleTe
nr one for political purpoe would
dare Impede the progress of I'lillndelplila
by endangering the loan."
So said Mayor Smith today, when asked
If ho Intended yielding to the demandB of
the Penrose-McNIchol forces to desert tho
Vares or seo his ndmlnlstrntlon loans de
feated. Senator McNIchol called on tho Mayor
today. Just as ho was nbout to hold a
cabinet meeting. Directors of depart
ments waited In nn outer ofllco while tho
Mayor and Senator conferred.
Tho Senator declined to talk nfter the
conference. Mayor Smith said that he
and the Senntor had talked politics, but
declined to go Into details.
In outlining his plans for a vigorous
campaign for both loan bills, upon tho
success of which depends nil his Ideas for
a progressive municipal government, tho
Mayor said:
"No open threat has been mndo to me
by politicians that they would defeat tho
general loan or the transit loan, but 1
havo henrd such a thing generally talked
of.
"Certain persons havo told mo that such
a course would bo taken, but I can hardly
bring myself to bellovo that nny man or
set of men would daro nttempt to Impcdo
the progress of tho city."
WIL SPEAK TO PEOPLE.
"Thcro may bo some danger In the loan
situation and as election day draws near
I mean to u.io overy effprt to place, tho
truo facts before tho voters so that they
for no reason need bo misled.
"I am accepting Invitations to night
meetings of business men mid other bodies
with tho cxpross purpose of tnklng ad-
vantngQ of thefce meetings to discus? both
, loans.
"I Vncnn to discuss the loan nt tho meet
ing of tho 'Allied Businessmen' tomorrow
night and havo given over my deslro to
remain nt home on evenings botween
now and May 16.
" I havo tried so far to pass a few quiet
evenings with my family, but this pleasuro
I mean to forego until tho loan question
Is settled. My ovenlng engagements', have '
not all been arrange as yet,.btit I 'mean
to erieak at a, blg public assemblage In
est Philadelphia- on May B and at an-
'.ttPU'or -suMay io-
""vm? "Directors and 'department heads
i.Ajt fef.... .amI.Ih.w ifh InnMU cn 4hV
".. ")"" MJ(.'I " " "- " ""-J
y-' will take advantage of overy opportunity
to impress upon mo voters no nceeaaiiy
for the passage of both bills."
"I appreciate the aid being given tho
loans by tho newspapers and feel that
they 'can do more than any other force to
impress upon tho people the need for tho
passage of the loans.
"As far ns the transit loan goes I
expect the people who will profit most by
tho construction of the lines will be tho
strongest In favor of the measure. Thero
may be some people who think the city
plans to spend too much money and they
must bo shown that both measures are
necessary The newspapers can do this
and can do much to oercome any opposi
tion that may develop for one reason or
another.
TRUSTS THE PEOPLE.
"Xo responsible person has threatened
to attempt the defeat of either loan bill,
and I bellove that with the whole question
intelligently presnted to the voters there
can be no doubt of the result. No set of
men can force my hand by threatening
defeat at the polls, and I don't believe
that the people will allow any political
controversy tp impede progress.
"There are some people who do not say
much, but sometimes vote wrong on ques
tions Involving public progress. It Is these
voters that we want to reach and Impress
with the need for both big loans.
"I for one mean to use every effort and
Continued on Fate Two, Column Three
WILSON MAY NAME JOIINSON
President Will Withdraw Nomination
- of It. F. Wagner
WASHINGTON, April 26. President
Wilson, it was authoritatively stated to
day, has decided to withdraw the appoint
ment of Robert P. Wagner to be post
master of New York. It was learned that
the President received an urgent request
from Mr. Wagner that his name be with
drawn. The latter Is understood to have
said that under no circumstances could
he accept tho appointment.
"No Information could be obtained to
day as 'to who would be selected for the
place. It Is generally believed here, how
ever, that the appointment now will go
to Joseph. Johnson.
THE WEATHER .
The lowering clouds or the louring
clouds, as Will Shakespeare would say,
In spite of the Chicago Judge did not
look well this morning. It was a sickly,
prospecy that the sky presented. The
clouds were ashy gray, and all that ap
peared of the Jaundiced sun were a few
sickly pale rays. The supply of spring
tonlo apparently was exhausted. Rut, on
the pther hand, the sky above Philadelphia
was fair to gate upon, In contrast with
the sky that hangs above the Emerald
Isle today. The red clouds of war have
drifted, as with the wind, across the sea
and are casting their baleful shadow upon
the shamrock. The ould sod la being
drenched with blood.
Rearing these facts In mind, say we,
it Is with a firm conviction that we assert
the sky that looked down, upon Chestnut
street this morning was a very fair sky.
FORECAST
For Philadelphia and vicinity
Generally cloudy tonight and Thurs
Say, with probably light rain; some
what cooler Thursday; gentle variable
winds.
For details see page t7.
LOST AND FOUND
HIJACK VOX. NECKPJKCE Lost, from auto
on road from MooreJtown, w. J., to 4Sttt and
IValout Finder return ta C. A. 8.. ti'M
Walnut and receive rewera,
KANDBAO- Reward for return of Udr'a black
tcatber handbac couUlDlnr letters bearlnc
eddrtea be-Low and otber articles, Iorubard
ln ""J Bourse Bid?
Jpuu- lt Mr relj Chow Chpw (iqi. oiT'ttor
ita " Uh Mwr April W Return ta
SUvl paw uR Mimr Vfeon. Reward;
"" Otfcw lt asd Jffeud Ai u I'aw 11
EASTER PARADE ECHO
Quarrel Between Prize Judges Causes
One to Bo Held for Court
An echo of tho Easter promenade on
Falrmottnt avenue last Sunday was heard
In the Contrnl Police Court this morning,
when Oscar Dahms, of 2010 Falrmount
avenue, wns held In $400 ball for court
by Magistrate Beaton, charged with as
sault and battery on Thomas Callahan,
of 2016 Falrmount nvenuc.
Callahan testified that a member of the
committee of the Falrmount Business
Men's Association, which had charge of
the matter of nwardlng prizes, handed him
a committee bndgc and asked him to check
up tho participants In tho parade, find
while doing so he said Dahms snatched
the paper nnd pencil out of his hand and
struck htm.
Dahms said ho wan chairman of the
committee nnd tlmt Callahnn wns not au
thorized to net ns n member nnd when
ho went up to him ho snatched tho paper
and pencil. Ho denied striking Callahan.
YOUTH HAP TOO MUCH "PEP"
Hazlcton Lad Stole, Ran, Fought and
Went to Jail in an Hour After
Arriving
Thomas Burkhart, 21 years old of Ha
zlcton, Pa., nrrlvcd in Philadelphia this
morning nnd In nn hour he had nnntched
two gold watches from a Jewelry store,
led a crowd a merry chase through West
Philadelphia, fought a policeman, was ar
rested, arraigned and held In $600 ball
for a further hearing.
Ills meteoric career In this city begnu
In tho store of C 12. Sanborn, n Jeweler, of
6109 Market street. Burkhart asked to
Inspect Sanborn's best watches. When
the tray wns put before him he snatched
two watches and' ran. Tho chaso led
along Market street to Rlst, to Ruci, where
Policeman Sherr, of tho 61st and Thomp
son streets station, was getting off a oar.
The pollcemnn Joined In the pursuit nnd
caught Burkhart at Arch nnd Kdgcwooil
streets, nfter a fight hi which they both
hilled In the street. Magistrate Steven
son was cutciliig tho police station when
Burkhart wai brought In. The prisoner,
the police s.iy, ndmltctd tho theft, but
explained that bo was In need of money
for medical treatment for his eyes.
NEW GUNS FOR
it'Virf'.-iSc .JKjii.J.'
ts-ms-mKracawsfca
... .. . -,. . - . . ..,";' -vt
Defects havinjr been found in her
Michigan, which is
BRITISH WARSHIP
BADLY DAMAGED
IN NAVALBATTLE
German Shell Penetrates
Boiler Room of Destroyer
in Fight
THREE RAIDS ON COAST
LONDON, April 25. Four persons
were killed and twelve wounded by
sheila fired from German cruisers in
the raid on the English east coast
early yeBterday, it was officially an
nounced this afternoon.
The city of Yarmouth, as well as
Lowestoft, was shelled by the German
warships.
In Lowestoft, 240 dwellings were
damaged, 40 of them suffering se
verely. The Convalecsent Home, the
pier and the' swimming baths were
also badly damaged.
At Ynrmouth only two buildings
were damaged, one of them seriously,;
LONDON, April 26.
Three' separate attacks, one by war
ships and two by aircraft, have beep de
livered against the British coast by the
Germans within the last 36 hours.
In the naval engagement in the North
Sea, following the German bombardment
of Lowestoft, one of the British destroy,
ers is reported to have been badly dam.
aged, although the damage done to the
light cruisers by shells f,rom the German
ships Is said to have been slight.
' A German shell penetrated the boiler
room of the destroyer, causing some of
the boilers ta explode.
The total casualties In the British
squadron are placed at from 20 to 30.
Thtj raid over Kssex and Kent last night
Is shown by official Information given out
tty the Admiralty to have been as ex
tensive as that over the Past coast. Three
Zeppelins took part and dropped many
bombs.
Both battles combined all the agencies
of modern warfare, raging on sea and
land and In the air at the same time.'
Zeppelins helped the German warships In
the attack upon tho English coast, while
atropUuea were used to aid the British
men-of-war u their bombardment of Hie
ilarman harbor works and sun emnlace-
menUt at Zebrufg. and otber points vox
tfca Belgian coast ' f
TROOPS SPEED
TO IRELAND TO
QUELL REVOLT
Martial Law Proclaimed in
Dublin County and City,
Asquith Announces
B1RRELL OFF FOR SCENE
Separatists Hold Part of Irish
Capital Communica
tion Cut
LONDON, April 26.
Troops havo been rushed to Ireland
from England to put down tho uprising
which begnn with rioting by Sinn Folncrs
(separatists) In Dublin on Monday, Pre
mier ABqulth announced In the Houso of
Commons this nftcrnoon.
British, forces hnve also been moved
Into southern Ireland from Belfast.
Tho Premier nlso stated that martial
law lias been declared In Dublin and
throughout the country.
Tho Premier's statement says. In part:
"Troops havo nrrlvcd .nt Dublin from
England nnd Belfnst Martial law has
been proclaimed nt Dublin nnd throughout
tho countv" (Dublin is In Dublin County.)
Mr. Asnulth Indicated that part of Dublin
Is still hold by the Insurrectionists, saying:
"Liberty Hill and Stephen's Green havo
been occur'cd by soldiers. Steps nro being
taken to arrest nil concerned."
It wns olllclally nnnounced that Augus
tine Bin ell, Secretary for Ireland, would
lenc this nftctnnoii for Dublin If the city
could bo reached by nny available route.
Some nnxlety was felt hero over the
whereabouts nf Lord Wlmborne, the Lord
Lieutenant of Ireland, nlthough no ndvlces
had been received up to tho tlmo this
I Continued on 1'iige Seven. Column Three
BATTLESHIP MICHIGAN AT NAVY YARD
rf" 'viKiviu tj,-!Z. f?t,'w,iii win CTs -
main battery, these new 12-inch guns
undergoing repairs at League Island
REPUBLICANS PLAN
TO MAKE U. S. NAVY
EQUAL TO GERMANY'S
Construction Program Boosts
Materially That Designed by
Democratic Members of
Committee
SEVEN SWIFT CRUISERS
Pu a Staff Correspondent .
WASHINGTON. April 26. Itepubllcan
members of the House Naval Affairs Com
mittee have arranged a secret meeting for
today to preparo a construction program
that will malte tho United States Navy
the equal of the German navy. It Is the
plan to boost materially the building pro
gram of tho Democratlo members, the
principal features of which are two super
dreadnoughts and four fast battle cruisers.
"A navy that can lick, aermany" Is to
be the slogan of the Ilepubllcans, accord
ing to one of the Itepubllcan members of
the Naval Affairs Committee, 'TVe have
learned that Germany has seven battle
cruisers, but not all of them are equipped
with 14-Inch guns. Some of them have
11-inch. The Ilepubllcans plan to have
seven cruisers, all of them having a speed
of 35 knots or more, and equipped with
H-inch guns. The two dreadnoughts au
thorized by the present bill will bring our
dreadnought line up to that of Germany's.
The republican Party has always stood
for a navy second only to that of Eng
land, "The three fast cruisers which the. Re
publicans propose to add to the program
of two dreadnoughts and four cruisers
favored by the Democrats, can be built
for about the cost of one of the other four
cruisers. The four cruisers agreed upon
are virtually dreadnoughts and cost as
much, but they have greater speed, be
cause their armor is lighter. The cruis
ers which the Republicans want to add
would carry about the same weight armor,
but Instead of being equipped with ten
14-inch guns, as tie othjtra will be, they
would carry only two 10-Inch. Instead of
costing 116,000.000 to J18, 000,000 each,
they could be built for 14,000,000. This
would make tbem very effective for scout
work, and they could engage the older
German cruisers In case of war, leaving1
tbo larger cruisers and dreadnoughts to
engage the modern German cruisers,"
Two City Appointments Announced
City Hall appointments today Included
George A- Smyth. 1358 South street, cleric
tu the Department of Laws, Hilary $1100,
and Albert J MUler. 1113 East Tioga
street, luapeelpr la the Department oft
1Vuve), Peeka d Ftrrtea, jalira; Ni
FALL DOWNSTAIRS IS FATAL
Camden Man
Dies as
juries
Result of In-
C. W. Crane, who conducted a plumbing
and steam heating business In Camden,
died today nt his home, 11 Haddon ave
nue, as a result of a fall downstairs
yesterday. Ills skull was fractured, nnd
his body was partially paralyzed. Ho
was attended by Dr. Howard Jarrett
Cratio was widely known In Camden
and wns a member of tho Elks Lodge. Ho
is survived by three sons nnd two daugh
ters. The funeral will take place on Sat
urday. Interment will be In Harlclgh
Cemetery.
P. R. R. Brakcman Killed
TRENTON, N. J.. April 26. Frank
Hawkins, of Jersoy City, employed as a
brakeman on tho Pennsylvania Itatlroad,
was killed near Monmouth Junction today
when struck by nn express train. Ho
was walking from the engine to the renr
of his freight train after tho locomotive
had stopped for repairs, nnd did not hear
tho approach of the other engine Ho
was not missed until his trnln reached
here.
Eighteen Months for Dope Dealer
Dominic Campl, otherwise known as
"King Brown." reputed to be one of tho
largest "dope" peddlers In this city, today
was sentenced to 18 months In the Fed
eral Penitentiary at Atlanta, Go., by Judge
Dickinson In tho United States District
Court, Campl was convicted last month
before Judge Dickinson of having n largo
quantity of cocaine In hli possession for
tho purposes of sale. Campl's motion for
a now trlnl wns refused.
Drag Schuylkill for Man's Body
The pollco of Lower Merlon township
nro today dragging the Schuylkill Illver
nt Plat Hock dam for the body of a man
believed to bo Jonathan Sanford, of Vine
land, N. J., a patient nt tho Fnnltnrlum of
Doctor Ludlnm. at Gladwyne. According
to tho police, James Boyle, a resident of
that section, yesterday saw n man who
he believed to lie nn escaped Inmate of
tho Institution, and when ho gave chase
tho limit fell Jnto the river at tho dam.
No Information could bo given nt tho san
itarium. T?yvjMKVigigrjsjgv.A.. ".,.. iw:.r-
Thoto by I r a
arc being placed aboard tho
under rush orders.
AEROPLANE HITS
ZEPPELIN IN DUEL
TWO MILES IN AIR
Frenchman Assails German
in Thrilling Battle Off
Zeebrugge
TEUTON WARSHIP STRUCK
PARIS, April 28.
A French aeroplane, at 3 o'clock this
morning, attacked a Zeppelin off Zee
brugge at a height of 13,300 feet (more
than two miles), throwing nine incendiary
shells at the dirigible, which Is believed
to have been returning from last night's
raid on England.
The Zeppelin turned Its nose skyward
and moved off, but apparently was dam
aged, the French aviator reported In offi
cial dispatches.
Only brief dispatches of the thrilling
air battle had reached Paris this after
noon. It appeared, however, that a fresh
squadron, following out the new policy
of meeting Zeppelin raiders, darted for
ward toward Zeebrugge, when word of
last night's raid on England was tele
graphed to the French coast, for the pur
pose of Intercepting the returning Ger
mans. Climbing to a height of more than two
miles' a speedy French aeroplane maneu
vered until It was aboye. the air dread
naught and began hurling down projectiles.
The Zeppelin searchlights began sweeping
the sky with wide area of light .and Bend-,
ing streams of machine-gun bullets toward
the speeding aeroplane.
The aeroplane discharged virtually all
Its load of bombs before the Zeppelin,
apparently crippled, turned Its prow sky-,
ward and climbed to still higher altitudes
at a dizzy speed.
Meanwhile one of the French planes
participating in the dash along the Belgian
coast spied a German torpedoboat In the
darkness oft Ostend and bombarded the
small warship. Hits were observed, )he
official dispatches said, but In the darkness
it was Impossible to ascertain exactly how
much damage was done.
In recounting these activities, the "War
Office announced that a French aviator
brought down one of the famous German
Fokker fighting planes at iAineviUe near
Nancy, and that the German pilot was
made prisoner
A squadron of German aeroplanes has
delivered another a, t tack on the Intrenched
camp of the Entente Allies at Saontc&,
according to a Havas dispatch from S-
loulca yesterday, toe airmen flying over
H7aa$ 4 Wit lujr. OdwMk)
TWO AMERICAN
SOLDIERS SLAIN
IN VILLA CLASH
. -4
Sixteen Mexicans Killed in:
Running Fight With
Colonel Dodd
DEMAND TO WITHDRAW
Obregon Expected to ,Urge U.
S. to Quit Mexico Scott
to Be Firm
Two American soldiers were killed,
three wounded, while six Villiatan
were killed nnd 10 wounded in a clash
Saturday led by Colonel Dodd. Tho
running fight occurred at Tomachio,
in the Guerrero district.
Gen. Alvnro Obregon, Carranza
Wnr Minister, will demand tho im
mediate withdrawal of the American
troops now in Mexico to get Pnncho
Villa, according to Mexican officials
at Juarez. Obrcgpn is onhis way to
El Paso to meet (jcnorals Scott and
Funston for a conference on the situ
ation. Contrary to this report is tho
Washington belief that Obregon will
be willing to make concessions in view
of the precarious condition of the
present do facto Government and the
fact that he himself is a probable
successor to Carranza and therefore
will not wish to antagonize the United
States.
General Scott will tell Obregon that
Villa must be caught nnd his bands
dispersed; that if the Mexicans can
not do it, and will not co-operate with
the American expedition, then tho
United States will continuo the pur
suit. In nny event, tho troops will bo
held in Mexico until the job is finished.
COLONEL DODD AGAIN LEADS
U. S. ATTACK ON VI LUST AS
COMJMBUS, N. M.. April 26. Two
Americans were hilled und three wounded
fn nn engagement Saturday afternoon be
tween Colonel Dodd'B forces ami Ui' force
of 200 "Villlstas under Cereyantes Bocay.
near Tomachle, according tu radio hies--
,..rf. ,. .-5.... ' .V. i. '" '.?.
The Mexican lost six killed and IS
wounded.
Colonel Dodd, according to Information
received here, had about 100 men when tho
engagement began.
The Villlstas formed tho rear guard of
a stronger force that was proceeding
southward. Despite tho fact thnt they
were outnumbered two to one. Colonel
Dodd's troops drove the Villlstas Into the
hills in a running fight that lasted until
after dark. The Villlstas were last seen
retreating toward Guessere, 'it Ifl said.
Tho American dead and wounded arcs
being brought northward on a 'pack train.
OBREGON WILL DEMAND U. S.
WITHDRAW FROM MEXICO
Y.h PASO, April 20. General Alvaro
Obregon, Mexican Minister of War and
military dictator of the southern republic.
Is traveling to the border today, determined
to Insist upon one principal demand In his
conference with Major General Hugh Ii.
Scott and General Funston that the
United States forces now in Mexico be
withdrawn.
Mexican authorities In Juarez made it
plain that Obregon would permit of no
compromise In his negotiations with the
representatives of the American Govern
ment. They said that the War Minister
would point out that then could be no
pacification of northern Meueo until the
American troops were withdrawn, their
continued presence there being a menace
to law and order.
The same Mexican officials expressed
the belief that Obregon would receive as
surances from General Scott that the
United States troops would be taken out
of Mexican territory without delay. They
declined to state their reasons for this
belief, but their attitude Indicated that
some of the finest intricacies of Mexican
diplomacy were Involved In the confer
ence. With their statement ft the demand on
which General Obregon will stand Arm,
the Mexican officials, apparently Inspired
by directions from a higher source, per-
Contlt-utd on l'ace Nine, Column One
ELUDES NURSE, LEAPS
11 STORIES TO DEATH
Wife of Pittsburgh Millionaire
Frantic When She Learns She
Must Go to a Hospital
NEW YORK. April 26. Eluding her
nurse, Mrs. Theresa Kaufman, wife of a
millionaire merchant, of Pittsburgh, com
mitted suicide today by plunging from a
window from her apartments on the Hth
floor of the RlU-Carlton Hotel.
The body landed on the asphalt on tho
46th street side of the hotel and death
was Instantaneous.
Mrs. Kaufman, a beautiful woman of
40. Iiad been suffering from a nervous
disorder and was to have been taken to
Mount Slnal Hospital for treatment She
became greatly distressed In mind when
told that she must go to the hospital and
was under the constant watch of a
trained nurse,
Henry Kaufman, the husband, who had
accompanied his wife here, recently re
tired from active management of his
Pittsburgh store.
Rotarians Told of City Trusts
Louis Otto Heiland, secretary to the
board of directors of City Trusts, spoke
on "City Trusts" at the weekly luncheon
of the Rotary Club today in the Bellevue
Stratford. Mr HeJlaud gave an enllght
enlng.t&Ut upon, the extent of the Glrard
and AhM1 irust managed by the board
and dtaciHwd, bfw-jriMyaw fcuwHadr
QUICK NEWS
MRS. ROGERS CASE GOES TO JURY
NEW YOUK, April 20. The
on trial for klllinr; her two children
tit 18:05 o'clock this afternoon.
ZEPPELINS DROP 100 BOMBS NEAR LONDON
LONDON, April SO. Zeppeliir raiders threw down 100 boujbs off
the Thames estuary (east of the metropolitan district of London) in
last night's raid, but there were no casualties, the War Offcle, an
noimced this afternoon, The German Admiralty, in an officinl olrtto
ment issued this afternoon, announced that the Zeppelins bombarded
Loudon, Colchester, Blnckwntcr and Bamsgatc.
BRYAN AND CHAMP CLARK GET VOTE EACH IN CAMDEN
Champ Clark and William Jennings Bryun each received ono votq In, Cam'
den In tho election of delegates to tho national conventions yesterday. About'
4000 votes wore cast out of n, normal 22,000. Approximately 3200 woro Repub
lican. The Democrats alono pledged their representatives. Twenty-eight Arotera
forgot to mark President Wilson's name, and ns a consequenco ho ran that
number of votes behind his delegates, noundtrco, a negro candidate, of Trenton,
received only C31 votes.
if
CARRANZA LIFTS
WASHINGTON. April 20. Tho
2C. Tho
export embargo on hides, to becomo effectivo Mny. 1, Special Agent Kodgorfl
at Mexico City cablcil the Stnto Department today. ''Tlio department lias been
negotiating to this end ulnco last December. Tho embargo lina ficcn ori for, five
months.
TAGGART NOMINATED FOR SHORT SENATE TERM
INDIANAPOLIS, April 26. Senator Tlionum TagRiirt was today nominated
by acclamation for tho United States Senate, to till the 8liort term left vacant
by tho death of Senator B. F. Shlvcly. Delegates to tho Democratic State
Convention- gavo Tnggnrt a rousing ovation.
RISING MISSISSIPPI FLOODS MINNESOTA FARMS
LACROSSE, Wis., April '26. Thirty thousand .acres of valuable farm land
near East Winona, Minn., across the river ffom Ijicrosse, wns Inundated today
by water from the flooded Bflsslsslppl. All trafilc on this branch of tho Burling
ton Railroad Is suspended.
JOHNAvPATTEN, PATENT
CHICAGO, '.April 26. John A. rnttoii,
tu.jr nnd widely known In Mbthodlst
vw hwuu jtunu Ift(J J VIUUU4l U4,
ivvVK- yyf ?; r , --t
REFININGr'CO.'.ANNOUNGES JBONUS&S. TO- WORJiER T;
v PITTSBURGH, April 26. Tho Atlantio Refining Company1-makes; tho follow-
Ing announcement: ''Commencing April i hourly andpleco workers will receive
at tiio end of each month a 6 per eaiJt. dividend on their earnings. In addltioa
to this, at tho en4 of each quartor they will receive a dividend of 6 per cent. ,
on their total earnings for tho quarter, which Is equivalent to a 12 per cent.
Increase, contingent upon 'continuous service." '
TWO EARTHQUAKE SHOCKS RECORDED AT CAPITAL
WASHINGTON, April 26. A severe earthquake shock, apparently about
2200 miles from Washington, was recorded .at Georgetown University observa
tory last night. A second of less intensity followed early today. Tho first be
gan at 9:27, reaching Its greatest intensity at 9:36, and lasting until 10:07 p, m.
The second began at 2:23 this morning, lasting until 3 o'clock.
SPAIN DENIES BRITAIN URGED SEIZURE OF SHIPS
MADRID, April 26. Premier-Romanones has emphatically denied recent
statements appearing In the Spanish press to tho effect that Great Britain had
urged Spain to conflacato the German steamships In Spanish ports and to sus
pend navigation through tho Straits of Gibraltar.
DR. DUDLEY J. MORTON TO SAIL FOR FRANCE
Dr. Dudley J. Morton, a graduate of Hahnemann Hospital and clinical chief
of the orthopedic department, will sail Saturday for France to Join tho staff of
surgeons at the American Hospital. Ills homo Is at 2141 Locust street. He la
visiting orthopedist for the Children's Homeopathic Hospital, Franklin and Thomp
son streets.
BRYAN WILL LAUNCH NEW PEACE FIGHT
WASHINGTON, April 26, Another attempt to get Congress to override the
President's foreign policy, such as that which failed with the defeat of the Mc
Lemore resolution, Is being prepared by the pacifist and hyphen members, and
will be launched -. ithin a day or two. Its backers have high hopes, as the resolu
tion hinges on tho Bryan arbitration plan and Is not a frank surrender of Amer
ican rights. The resolution, which Is now being drafted, follows suggestions made
by Mr, Bryan on his recent visit to Washington, as well as suggestions made by
Hearst newspapers, to prevent a war on Germany, though not on, Mexico.
BRITONS MUST JOIN ARMY OR BE FORCED INTO IT
LONDON, April 26. Unless 50,000 recruits come forward wlthfn the next
fourweeks and 15.0QQ more offer themselves eachtveek for, tho. next 10 weeks
following there will be general compulsion In England, Premier Asquith stated
yesterday at the secret session of Parliament. This statement was made In
reply to the clamor of the opponents of the Government for a statement of the
attitude of the Cabinet In regard to compulsion. The Government is loath to put
a measure of compulsion In force If It Is possible to get voluntary enlistments.
SUPPLIES FOR ALLIES WORTH $250,000 DESTROYED
illDDLETOWN, N. Y April 26. A transfer freight station haif a mile Ions
filled with valuable freight, most of it destined for the Allies, and 80 loaded
freight cars were destroyed by Are in the Central New England yards of the
New York. New Haven and Hartford Railway at Maybrook early today. The
fire started from an explosion In a freight car. Whether it was incendiary or
accidental is not known. The loss was
BERLIN OPEN TO PEACE PROPOSAL, SAYSPRINgE
ZURICH, April. 26. Prince Hohenlohe, of Germany, In an Interview In the
Zurich Gazette, says: "I believe that
many are still resolute in waging the war,
sonable proposal to end the slaughter and
1 " !!'. '"
NEW YORK MAYOR SEEKS TO AVERT GARMENT STRIKE
NEW YORK. April 28. Mayor MItchel has called a conference In bis office
this morning to consider means to prevent a lockout or strike in the cloak and
suit Industries, which would involve about 70.00Q workers. Th Cloak and Suit
Manufacturers Association, International Garment Workers' Union, the Mayor's
Council of Conciliation and others have been Invited. In hls'letter explaining the
situation, Mayor MItchel saldi "I Ijope to work out with you measure for pr.
venting a dUturbance which will affect thousands of worker."
DIGGERS' STRIKE INTERFERES WITH BURJALS
More funerals a. the Holy Cross Cemetery had to be postponed today an
account of tho grave diggers' strike, which la stlU in force, everal funeral
processions that a.Tlvcd at thp cemetery had to disband. The bodies wr
piced temporarily In the receiving vaults until the trouble )is ssttted. TiLie;j
funerals were postponed yesterday, and unless the strike U wl4 w'xxi thj tm
csivlng vaulta, wlU U Ailed ta bvlx capacity, Ttw sra&t 0Jws want s lawre&w
si . . t;y,
crtso of Mrs. Ida Sniffcil Jlogersr
by poison, was given to the jury
EMBARGO ON HIDES
Cnrranai
Cnrranr - a Government lia3 removed.
tho
MEDICINE MAGNATE, DEAD
mllllonalra.patcnt, medicine mdnutac
Episcopal church circles, died suddenly, '
WI4bU Hil Vllltlk lmU(
-V" '
$250,000.
while the Government and people) of Qerv
they would wllllnglyentertaln a rea
prevent a world catastrophe."
ki
VI
.i
'vi
1.
tXl
t:
- i1
