/
WEATHER. ^^^7 V 4 ^ llLJf "From Pre** to Home
Overcast tonight and tomorrow, with ^ ^ y B ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ a y^^ll ?????????
probably showers; cooler tomorrow; M >^kL J| B#0 ^fl^. F shA
to moderate variable winds. ^ J ^ k B^^B B^B B^F I 1^ B^bT I l)/l if wwlthUl ttl HoWr
Temperature for ^B I H ^^B B | | B>^ B I B I IBB I _r\ I I JutHBL
ending p.m. Highest. p.m. j | I B^ B m IB ml B B I BIBB I fl I B *****
today; lowest, 42 at 6 a.m. today. A H H . B B H B B H ^B T B ^B B^ LllZZZ^IIZIIIIZIZIIIIZZZIIZZ^IIIZZIZZZZZZli.
on page -A. 1^^/ .^L wA<
' ^ I f W y ~ ? *' T1 f V "? "M OmliOM, >H(k .( Hank.
CLOSING NEW YORK STOCKS PAGE SO. Vbii ^ UW" D"117 A ?** * > * 7**, ",,*"J* **
No. 20,300. WASHINGTON, D. C., WEDNESDAY, APRIL 26, 1916.-TWENTY-FOUR PAGES. ONE CENT.
? .? ? ~
U. S. UPHOLDS RIGHT
OF VESSELS TO ARM
, TO PROTECT SELVES
Status of Merchantmen in
..
I Neutral forts txpiainea Dy
State Department.
PRESIDENT DIRECTS
STATEMENT BE ISSUED
Rights and Duties of Belligerents
and Nations at Peace
Are Cited.
DEEMED REPLY TO GERMANY
Status of Ship* at Sea Also Set
Forth in Discussion of
Issue.
A statement defining the attitude
of the I'nited States toward
armed merchant ships in neutral
ports and on the high seas was
made public today by the State
Department by direction of President
Wilson. It originally was
prepared as a circular note to
other powers, but it later was decided
to issue it as a statement.
TEXT OF STATEMENT.
The statement is as follows:
"The status of an armed merchant
vessel of a belligerent is to be con
eidered from two points or view; nrm,
from that of a neutral when the vessel
enters Its ports, and, second, from
that of an enemy when the vessel Is
on the high seas.
FIRST. AN ARMED MERCHANT
VESSEL IN NEUTRAL PORTS.
"(1) It is necessary for a neutral
government to determine the status
of an armed merchant vessel of belligerent
nationality which enters its
jurisdiction, in order that the government
may protect itself from responsibility
for the destruction of life and
property by permitting its ports to be
Used as bases of hostile operations by
belligerent warships.
"?2> Tf the vessel carries a commission
or orders issued by a belligerent
government and directing it under
penalty to conduct aggressive operation*,
or if it is conclusively shown to
have conducted such operations, it
should be regarded and treated as a
warship.
"<Z) If sufficient evidence is wanting,
a neutral government, in order to safeguard
Itself from liability for failure
to preserve its neutrality, may reasonably
presume from the facts the status
vi mi diniru mcniiaiii ?d.i<_ i "
frequents its waters. There is no settled
rule of international law as to the
sufficiency of evidence to establish such
a presumption. As a result a neutral
government must decide for itself the
sufficiency of the evidence which it requires
to determine the character of
the vessel. For the guidance of its port
officers and other officials a neutral
government may therefore declare a
standard of evidence, but such standard
may be changed on account of the
general conditions of naval warfare or
modified on account of the circumstances
of a particular case. These
changes and modifications may be made
at any time during the progress of the
war. since the determination of the
status of an armed merchant vessel in
neutral waters may affect the liability
of a neutral government.
-SECOND. AN ARMED MERCHANT
VESSEL ON HIGH SEAS.
"tlj It is necessary for a belligerent
warship to determine the status of an
armed merchant vessel of an enemy encountered
on the high seas, since the
rights of life and property of belligerents
and neutrals on board the vessel
may be impaired if its status is
that of an enemy warship.
" <2) The determination of warlike
character must rest in no case upon
presumption, but upon conclusive evidence.
because the responsibility for
the destruction of life and property depends
on the actual facts of the case !
and cannot be avoided or lessened by '
b standard of evidence which a bel- j
ligerent may announce as creating a J
presumption of hostile character. On i
the other hand, to safeguard himself I
from pomiible liability for unuarrant- !
ed destruction of life and property the {
belligerent should, in the absence of;
conclusive evidence, act on the pre- j
sumption that an armed merchantman
1a ?-/t j/cacciui cnaracrer. I
"(3> A presumption based solely on
the presence of an armament on ai
merchant vessel of an enemy is not a
sufficient reason for a belligerent to!
declare It to be a warship and proceed
to attack It without regard to the j
rights of the persons on board. Con- j
elusive evidence of a purpose to use
the armament for aggression is essential.
Consequently an armament which
a neutral government, seeking to perform
its neutral duties, may presume
to be intended for aggression, might,
in fact, on the high seas lie used solely
for protection A neutral government
las no opportunity to determine the
purpose of an armament on a mer?
hant vessel unless there is evidence
f in the ship's papers or other proof as
to its previous use. so that the government
is justified in substituting an
arbitrary rule of presumption in arriving
at the status of the merchant
v???ei. On the other hand, a belligerent
warship can on the high seas test
l,y actual experience the purpose of an
urmament on an enemy merchant vessel.
and so determine by direct evidence
the status of the vessel.
HI MMARY OF CONTKNTinVS
"The status of an armed merchant
vessel as a warship In neutral waters
may be determined, in the absence of
documentary proof or conclusive evidence
of previous aKKreshivc conduct,
by presumption derived from all the
circumstances of the case.
The status of such vessel as a warship
on the hiKh seas must be determined
only upon conclusive evidence
of aggressive purpose, in the absence
Of which it is to be presumed that the
vessel has a private and peaceable
character and it should be so treated
by an enemy warship.
-In brief, a neutral government may
proceed upon the presumption that an
armed merchant vessel of belligerent
nationality is armed for aggression,
while a belligerent should proceed on
the presumption that the vessel is
armed for protection. Both of these
presumptions may be overcome by evidence?the
first by secondary or coli
lateral evidence, since the fact to be
established is negative In character;
the second by primary and direct evi*
(Continued on Sixteenth i'age.j
Prince of Monaco
Indorses Protest
PARIS, April 26.?
Prince Albert of Monaco
has sent the following
cable message to
President Wilson:
"A s a sovereign
j prince, as a navigator,
; as a scientist, I adhere
to the protest you have
made with fine sentii
ment and human digI
nity against offenses
committed by German
arms against the rights
of neutrals, the honor of
mariners and public
conscience.
(Signed )
"ALBERT,
"Prince of Monaco."
DEADLOCK BRINGS
COAL STRIKE NEAR
176,000 Anthracite Workers
Would Be Involved if
Walkout Comes.
SEVEN WEEKS' EFFORT
AT ADJUSTMENT FAILS
Subcommittees Will Hake Eeports.
Convention May 2 Will Decide
Final Action.
NEW YORK. April 26?Deadlocked
over the question of recognition of the
United Mine Workers of America, the
anthracite operators and miners today
face the possibility of a strike involv
ing 176,000 men. The general board
of the mine workers' union meets' here
today to receive the report of a subcommittee
which was unable to reach
an agreement with the operators' subcommittee.
Both subcommittees will
report tomorrow to a general conference
of both miners and operators
that they have been unable to reach
an agreement after seven weeks of
discussion.
Unless this conference is able to
find a way to break the deadlock, it
will be left to the miners' convention
at Pottsville, Pa.. May 2 to determine
whether the miners shall declare a
strike. Representatives of the miners
today expressed faint hope that further
negotiations would be productive of
results and said that not. one of the
eleven demands made by the miners
had been granted by the operators.
Cause of Deadlock.
The deadlock is attributed by the
operators to the miners' demand for
full recognition of the union, a closed
shop and the compulsory collection by
the operators of all dues and assessments
of the United Mine Workers laid
upon their members. The operators
refused this demand, known as the
"check-off," on the ground that it is
un-American and against the practice
of every other labor organization in the
country.
The other demands of the miners and
the answers given by the operators
"r- uuiiiiicu iicrc luuaj ionows.
A two-year agreement. Answered.
Twenty per cent increase in wages.
Five per cent offered.
An eight-hour day. Granted, provided
production is not " curtailed.
Operators Are Willing.
Simpler methods of settling grievances.
Operators willing to adopt any
plan to speed the work of the conciliation
hoard.
Limit contract miners to one working
place. Refused.
Kquitable and uniform price of supplies
to miners.0 Operators willing to
consider at any time.
"Mine run" basis of pay for piece
work. Refused.
j Readjustment of machine mining
scales. Operators offered minimum
rates of $2 to $2.85 a day.
Arrangement of detail wage scales
and settlement of internal questions by
districts. Refused.
To prohibit individual contracts In
mining. Refused.
The operators, in refusing to install
the "check off" system, assert that
they are in accordance with the decision
of the anthracite strike commission
appointed in 1902. .John I\
White, president of the United Mine
l Workers, denies that the strike comi
mission settled this question, but says
j the commission took up that subject
on its own initiative and contrary to
an agreement under which the demands
of the miners were submitted.
DAY IN CONGRESS.
Senates
I Met at noon.
Resumed debate on rural cred;;
its bill.
I Conferees on army reorganizai
tion bill held preliminary meeting.
Houses
Met at noon.
Transacted regular calendar
business.
DISTRICT IN CONGRESS.
Senates
Bill extending the Jurisdiction ?.
of the municipal courts of the
District introduced by Senator
Walsh.
Bill making regulations to
safeguard employes and other
parsons during the construction
of buildings in the District introduced
by Senator Hughea.
Senator Martine of New Jersey
Introduced a bill amending the
building regulations.
/
! BERLIN MAY ADMIT
THAT SUBMARINE
ATTACKEDSUSSEX
Report in Switzerland Shows
Possibility That Attitude on
Subject May Change.
IMPERIAL CHANCELLOR OFF
TO CONFER WITH KAISER
Leaves for Army Headquarters, Following
Conference at Berlin With
A wia%C/inm A Jaw flnrnr/l
auiciivau aiuuaaaauux uciaiu,
TRY TO REACH AGREEMENT
Indications Are That Efforts Will
Be Made to Avoid Break?No
Anti-American Demonstrations
Among: German People.
?
BliRX. Switzerland. April 26,
via Paris, 4:35 a.m.?The Bund,
which has exceptional sources of
information in regard to German
affairs, says it is probable the
German government will not
1.. 1 1 , 1 , i t.
maintain any longer mat tne
steamship Sussex was not torpedoed
by a German submarine.
Berlin Answer This Week.
BERLIN, April 26. via London,
3:55 p.m.?The German answer
to the American note may
not be expected before the end of
the present week. It may be presented
Saturday.
Prior to his departure for headquarters
to consult with Emperor
William, the submarine issue and
Germany's relations with the
United States were again under
discussion yesterday by Dr. von
Bethmann-Hollweg, the imperial
:hanc.elIor, and James W. Gerard,
:he American ambassador.
Expect Modus Vivendi.
The chancellor will reach headquarters
this afternoon. All the surface
indications i>oint more and more
to the probability that an arrangement
regarding the Sussex, and a modus
vivendi on the submarine problem will
be offered to the United States, and
that a sincere endeavor to reach an
understanding will be made from this
side, putting the decision regarding the
future status of relations up to Washington.
The main nuruose of the imnerial
chancellor's Hying trip to Berlin?a
journey which involves twenty hours'
travel in each direction?has been, as
is evident from his protracted conferences
with Am"b;is?ador Gerard, the
desire to obtain as clear an idea as
possible of the attitude and policy of
the American government, what, if
an)thing, lies behind and beyond the
American note, and what measures are
necessary to satisfy the American demand,
before the momentous decision
is taken by the emperor and his advisers
at headquarters.
So far as Germany is concerned there
is still a possibility of a settlement
and hope has not been abandoned here.
But the Germans, as is apparent from
many conversations which the Associated
Press has had with prominent
men since the beginning of this crisis,
wish to know before giving their answer
what sort of answer would satisfy
the United States, whether assurances
of a properly conducted submarine
campaign would be adequate,
and whether concessions now would be
the prelude to further demands later.
No Break Is Wanted.
It can be stated positively that Dr.
von Bethmann-Hollweg and his advisers
realize fully the disadvantages
| of a break with the United States, and
| that they do not desire it if it can be
i :?voided But thev fee 1 If :i hrfak
must come ultimately, it would be useless
to indulge in concessions and compromises
now, and that they might as
well have the matter settled.
Ambassador Gerard conferred Monday
with the imperial chancellor alone,
none of the chancellor's advisers participating
in the interview.
Mr. Gerard immediately cabled a long
account of the conversation to Secretary
Lansing, and the feeling here is
that if it were possible to obtain an an
swer from Washington before the GerI
man council is concluded and a decision
| accepted >t might aid materially in the
I solution. There is little expectation of
that, however.
Berlin Is Less Gloomy.
There has been a distinctly better atmosphere
in Berlin of late. On the day
of the publication of the American
note, and for some time afterward, an
air of gloom prevailed regarding future
German-American relations, and many
men spoke of a rupture as inevitable.
The word now is that a settlement is
within the reach of possibility, and although
it would be wrong to use the
word optimism, at least the spirit of
pessimism has notably abated and
everywhere one hears the query: "What
does America want; can we satisfy
President Wilson without abandoning
the submarine campaign, or does he
want to prevent us from winning the
war?"
During the crisis there has been an
utter absence of unfriendly demonstrations
against Americans. The downtown
streets for three days have been
jammed with holiday crowds, but there
has not been the slightest intimation
of any desire to organize a demoriBtra*
tion against the American embassy, or
even of popular curiosity regarding
the doings there, and the big square
between the embassy and the chancellor's
palace has been left to the
undisturbed and lazy tenancy of one
policeman and one "plainclothes man"
who for months have been posted before
the embassy.
The public and the "press continue tn
(Continued on Sixteenth l'age.)
a
M
IRISH CAPITAL PLACED
UNDER MARTIAL LAW
British Troops Reported to Have Captured
Stephens Green and Liberty
Hall Headquarters of Rebels.
The British ambassador, Sir Cecil Spring-Rice, today
received and referred to the State Department an anonymous
threating communication declaring that any treatment
of Sir Roger Casement other than that due a prisoner
of war of the highest rank "would be a sentence of death"
against the ambassador and other English servants in this
country.
TROOPS POUR INTO DUBLIN.
LONDON, April 26, 3.08 p.m.?Martial law has been proclaimed
in fl-n* fi+AT or?r! /v-Mintv of Dublin it was annonncpH in the hmisp nf
commons. Troops have arrived at Dublin from Belfast and England.
Liberty Hall, headquarters of the Dublin rebels, and Stephens
Green, which was captured by them, have been occupied by the military,
Premier Asquith announced today.
Steps to arrest all those concerned in the movement, Mr.
Asquith said, were being taken.
The following telegram was received in London today from
Baron Wimborne, lord lieutenant for Ireland, dated Dublin:
"The situation is satisfactory. Stephens Green has been occupied.
Eleven insurgents have been killed. The provincial news is
reassuring." , ,
Official Rcnort of Riotlnjr. , English sentiments. Its program calls for
omciai ttepon. ui xwo 6 (he boycott Qf England the refu8al of
An official communication Issued last Irishmen to attend parliament and of
......i., situation in Irishmen to enter business or social reevemng
concerning the situation lations with the Kng)ish j? Ireland. The
Dublin said: abstention, as far as possible, of Irishmen
i "\t noo'n vesterdav serious disturb- from enlisting in the army and from buyv.
1 Dublin V large ln* English goods also is called for in
ances broke out in Dublin. A,iarg ,he society's platform.
party of men identified with the binn
Eein party, mostly armed, occupied 1
VON IGEL WILL IDENTIFY
| wires. Houses also (were occupied ^ In I _
Stephens green, oovn?uic ?
bey street and along the quays. Ill 111 IIP I iri fl rilf II n
"In the course of the day soldiers KflKl"ff\ HI-1 II Wf II V
arrived from the Curragh, and the.sit- I 111 LIlU I ILL U U| II 1)
nation is now well in hand. So far as
is known here, three military officers, .
four or five soldiers, two loyal volunkm
and 'four nftT WiU Accompany Counsel at Confercers
and seven or eight soldiers and six *nr* Wifh ?n ?x
volunteers wounded. No exact lnfor- . cacc Willi State Department
mation has been received of the casual- Affir.* i
ties on the side of the Sinn Feinors. UlllCiaiS.
"Reports received from Cork, Limerick.
Ennis, .Tralee and both ridings of Tipperary
show that no disturbances of any John B. KtanchfloM of v. kind
have occurred in these localities." nrtin^ ?f ni?nchn?Ud of New York,
acting as counsel for the German emHurried
Out of Ireland. bassy, will confer with Secretary LanSir
Roger Casement, leader of the ^ C?u"seIor Po*k of the State
separatist faction In Ireland, who was meiV e tctnorrow about the
, captured while attempting to land arms Tn t 8 86 ?e J agents of the Departfrom
Germany on the Irish coast. Was 1?* from the York
conveyed across Ireland Saturday by a (?ont ? Vf,n secretary to
, strong armea escort who knew the prls- military attache &Pen' the w,thdrawn
oner only by two initials. He arrived in r?.i ? in *
London without incident and immediately _ accompany Mr. Stanch'
was lodged in the Metropolitan prison. Held, and, if the State Department offlThe
fact that Sir Koger Casement has clals wish, will identify anv r.-,.,...."
, been brought to England to stand trial The German emhss.v i? PaPe ?.
and ia detained in military custody leads German embassy, it was said toto
the assumption that he will be tried ay' ,akes 'he position that the papers
on the charge of high treason. do not concern Count von Bernard rr
This charge haa been preferred less than the ambassador ..... i "=",OLO"r.
half a dozen times In England in the last ,!! Pertain purely to
! hundred years. The last instance was omce of the military attache. For
during the Boer war, resulting in the con- that reason. It is contended ?.>,
i viction of Arthur Lynch in 1903. Mr. bassador is not call*,! H
Lynch, who is now a member of the house - . upon to Identify
of commons, was sentenced to death, but any thfin.
the sentence was commuted and a year The papers are said to crmtaf*, ,
later a pardon was granted. startling list of names of persons in
tt-.j TUTott Ha Puf f>W inis coumr> wmicvicu wun aiieirea
Head May Be Cut Off. unneutral activities. It has been
The Express suggests the possibility p2ln.te,d ?ilt that I*1? Identification, as
that Sir Roger, if convicted of high trea- ^bawaSSr^tmBe'f wouTd^nect tbS
son, may be beheaded, as under the exist- ambassador with the affairs disclosed
' Ing law a person found guilty of this of- in them.
: fense may, by crown warrant, be given The von Igel papers. It Is underthe
penalty of beheading instead of hang- stood, also contain material disclosing
ing. activities in this country related to the
The Sinn Fein or "For Ourselves" So- recent uprising in Ireland and the
I clety, accused of fomenting the < Dublin .mamcs of Americans who had knowlrevolt,
is composed 01 men v*. bituJig anu- edge of the plans.
I
C
1 mmrnm?mmmm
I
jjptS
LEADERS JUBILANT
AT REPUBLICAN VOTE
Results in Three States Put
Regulars in Strong Party
Position.
There was loud rejoicing today among
regular republicans at the Capitol over
the result of yesterday's primaries in
three states for the selection of delegates
to the national convention. The
"regular" ticket in each state polled
a victorious vote over Roosevelt and
insurgent tickets. ,
Massachusetts furnished the most interesting
case in point. In that state
Roosevelt enthusiasts had placed in
the field a straightout Roosevelt ticket.
It is quite true, however, that Col.
Roosevelt himself had not authorized
this action, but, on the contrary, had
deprecated it. But the Roosevelt men
would not be deterred and insisted
upon placing in nomination as delegates
at large four men to go to Chicago
pledged to vote for Roosevelt for
the regular republican nomination.
They were Messrs. Cushipg, Bird, Gard
net auu ? aoiiuui n.
Besult a Sweeping Victory.
An opposition ticket was named, consisting
of Gov. McCall, Senator Lodge,
Senator Weeks and former Senator
Crane. They were to attend the convention
unpledged, although it was generally
assumed that they would vote for
Senator Weeks, for the presidential
nomination. The outcome of the
primaries was a sweeping victory for
the unpledged delegation, which means,
the politicians say, that at least
Massachusetts will not be for Roosevelt.
It must not be understood that the
contest which was decided yesterday
was altogether a straightaway fight
between Roosevelt men and the regulars.
It was largely a clash of factions
within the republican party, with
personal jealousies entered to a large
extent.
In Ohio the outcome was important
in the sense of ironing out the last
vestige of opposition to the regular
organization. This was done in the
selection of Gov. Willis as a delegate
at large. It might be said to have been
a case of "completing the record."
Humors of Possible Switch.
There was no opposition, of course,
to former Senator Burton's candidacy
for the presidential nomination and the
delegation is instructed for him. For
some time there have been rumors that
in case Senator Burton cannot "be put
across" the delegation, with his consent,
will switch to Senator Harding
and "try him out.
At any rate the delegation will be
regular republican and will stand like
the rock of Gibraltar against any attempted
stampede for Roosevelt.
In New Jersey the "regulars" elected
their ticket handsomely over the Roosevelt
ticket. The delegates at large to
the republican convention will be David
Baird, Newton A. K. Bugbee, Hamilton
F. Kean and Ira A. Kip, jr. Th^ democratic
delegates at large will be Gov.
Fielder, Edward E. Grosscup, Senator
Hughes and Representative Scully.
BRITISH HOLD TIGRIS LINES.
No Developments Since Recent Battle,
Sir Percy Lake Reports.
LONDON. April 26.?The following
official communication, concerning the
operations in Mesopotamia, was made
public today:
"Lieut. <3en. Sir Percy Lake, in a dispatch
dated Monday, says: 'Today there
were no important developments. On
the right bank of the Tigris we still
hold the line running south and eaat
from Best Aiessa. which we prolonged
this morning to the southward, driving
in the enemy's advance pickets. On
the left bank we still hold the same
line as before facing the Sannayyat
position.' "
PRIMARY ELECTION
TO BE HELD MAY 5
Choice of Delegates and Alternates
to Republican Na
tional Convention.
CALL IS ISSUED TODAY
TO PARTY IN DISTRICT
Qualifications of Voters Prescribed
by Board Having Charge of the
Preliminaries.
Friday. May 5, has been pet for. the
date of the republican primaries for the
District of Columbia, whereby delegates
and alternates will be chosen for
the national convention June 7 In Chicago,
according to a call issued today
by the election board, constituted by
the republican national committee and
consisting of Charles Linkins, Charles
H. Bauman and Jesse H. Foster. The
hours of voting are to be announced
later. The call, addressed "to the republican
voters of the District of Columbia,"
is as follows:
Text of the Call.
"We, the undersigned, constituted an
election board by the republican na
tlonal committee, to direct and supervise
the election of delegates and alternates
from the District of Columbia
to the republican national convention
to be held In the city of Chicago Wednesday,
June 7, 3916, under and by virtue
of the authority vested In us by
the said republican national committee,
do hereby fix Friday, May 5, 1916, as
and for the date of said election of
delegates and alternates from the said
District of Columbia to the said national
republican convention.
"Every male citizen of the District of
Columbia twenty-one years of age or
over, without regard to past political
affiliations, who believes In the principles
of the republican party and indorses
its policies, and who has resided
in the District of Columbia for
one year next prior to the date of the
registration and election herein provided
for, and has resided for two
months next prior thereto in his voting
precinct, and who does not claim
citizenship elsewhere, shall have the
right to vote.
Twenty-Two Election Precincts.
"The District of Columbia shall be
divided into twenty-two election precincts
corresponding to* what has
formerly been known as the legislative
districts. The voting places shall be
hereafter designated, but with the right
reserved by the undersigned election
board, or a majority thereof, to select
other voting places or to change those
already designated, prior to the holding
of said election.
"Prior to the election this election
board shall appoint for each polling
place three citizens of known Integrity
as a board of judges, whose duty
it shall be on the day of registration
and election to determine the qualifications
of all voters, as herein prescribed;
to receive, count, announce and return
the ballots to a returning board,
to be hereafter provided for by this
election board. Said board of judges
shall choose one of its own members
as chairman and another as clerk.
"The election board shall prior to
the election select three citizen:!, qualified
voters, as hereinbefore prescribed,
as a returning board.
"The polls shall be kept open during
such hours of the day as this election
board shall hereafter determine.
"No person shall be eligible to vote
who shall not have registered.
What the Ballots Shall Contain.
"The ballots to be used for voting
for the respective candidates shall
contain the following words only:
" 'For delegates and alternates to the
republican national convention in the
city or cnicago, June seventn, lsib:
Delegates (names of delegates), Alternates
(names of alternates).*
"The hours during: which the voting
precincts shall be kept open will be
hereafter announced by this election
board.
"Each board of judges, or a majority
thereof, shall ascertain and determine
the qualifications of any person offering
to register. If the right to register
and vote is challenged by any person
said board of judges shall at once
determine such person's right to register
and cast a vote; and the determination
and decision of said board of
judges shall be final and binding on
all persons interested.
"When any such challenge is made no
other vote shall be received by the
board until it shall have determined
the qualification of the person whose
right is challenged.
"Each board of judges shall keep a
registration record, upon which shall
be entered, before the vote is deposited.
the full name of the voter, his
street and the number of his residence.
No voter shall be allowed to deposit his
ballot until such registration is fully
completed.
To Announce Closing Hour.
'Ten minutes prior to the closing of
the polls the chairman of each board
of judges shall announce that the polls
will be closed at the time hereafter to
be fixed by this board of election.
"At the close of the polls each board of
judges shall open the boxes and count the
ballots cast and make a return thereof,
to be signed by them, or a majority of
inem, wnicn reiums siian sutio im:
names of the persons for whom ballots
are cast and the number received by each.
The board of judges, or a majority of .
them, shall seal up all the ballots * and
over their names, or a majority thereof,
shall address and deliver the same, duly
certified, together with the registration |
record, to the returning board as soon as j
practicable after the time of such sealing. '
In no case shall the board of judges aa- :
journ until its duties are completed.
<
Duties of Returning Board. ?
"The returning board shall choose one
of its members as chairman and another 1
as clerk. Within four hours after the close
of the polls, or as soon thereafter as prac- .
ticable, said returning board shall convene
to receive the returns from the several
boards of judges at such place as
this election board shall select. Said returning
board shall unsea' the packages
of ballotB and tabulate the returns as
made by the boards of judges. When the
returning board shall have completed its
tabulation it shall openly announce the 1
names of the persons for whom votes (
have been cast and the number received
by each.
"The returning board, or a majority of
them, shall, upon the completion of its i
duties, file immediately with the elec- i
tlon board a statement over their slg- j
natures, showing the names of the per- ,
sons for whom votes have been east
(Continued on Second Page.) i
>
TWO U. S. TROOPERS
KILLED IN BATTLE
WITH VILLA BAND
Three Others Wounded When
Dodd Detachment Encounters
260 at Tomachio.
SIX MEXICANS ARE DEAD
AND 19 MORE ARE INJURED
Fight Occurred Last Saturday, According
to Dispatches Deceived at
Gen. Pershing's Headquarters, y
HOPEFUL FOR GOHFEREHGE
De Facto Government Officials Confident
Meeting of Gens. Scott,
Funston and Obregon Will
Settle All Differences.
FIELD HEADQUARTERS.
April 26, via wireless to Columbus,
N. M.?Two Americans were
killed and three wounded in an
engagement between cavalrymen
under Col. George A. Dodd and
260 Villa bandits at Tomachio,
in the center of the Sierra Madres,
in tirPctAm ffnVinatma on Anril
22, according to an official report
reaching here today.
The Villa command, under four
chiefs, Baca, Cervantes, Dominguez
and Rios, was surprised in
the late afternoon and routed.
After the battle the Americans
found six dead Mexicans and
nineteen wounded, while a quantity
of horses, arms and equipment
was captured.
Hopeful for Conference.
EL PASO, April ?. ? Officials et
the de facto government were
optimistic today in the belief that
the mission of Qen. Alvaro Obregon.
minister of war, to this ci{y or Juares
to confer-with SfaJ. Gen. Hugh L Scott,
chief of staff of the United States
Army, will result in a satisfactory plan
whereby peaceful conditions may be
maintained along the border.
Pending the conference, which probably
will be held late this week, the
bases and lines and communication of
the American army in Mexico are being
strengthened for any eventuality.
Chase of Villa Is Resumed.
FIELD HEADQUARTERS, NAMTQUIPA,
Chihuahua, April 25, via wireless
to Columbus, N. M.. April 26.?Several
detachments of American troops
have resumed active pursuit of Villa,
and are whipping the mountains north
and west of Parrai. where the bandit
chieftain is reported to be hiding.
The advanced base, 300 miles south of
the border, is now completely equipped,
train after train of motor trucks having
arrived here within the last ten
days bringing rations, clothing and
equipment.
Awaits Orders From Washington.
SAN ANTONIO, Tex.. April 26.?MaJ.
Gen. Hugh L. Scott, chief of staff of the
American army, still was awaiting instructions
from the War Department
here today that will govern his coming
conferences with Gen. Alvaro Obregou.
Carranza's minister of war.
He and Gen. Funpton have arranged
to leave for El Paso tonight on the assumption
that it is there Gen. Obregon
will meet them, but definite information
regarding Obregon's choice of
places has not been received.
State and War Officials
Await Word From Obregon
Regarding the Conference
Advices as to the time of Gen. Obregon's
arrival on the border to confer
with Gens. Scott and Funston were
still awaited today at the State and
War departments. Judging by the time
Obregon was reported officially to have
passed Saltillo yesterday officials estimated
he might reach Eagle Pass tonight.
Nothing has been received so
far to indicate where the conference |
will be held.
Secretary Baker said his department
had not prepared any instructions to
the chief of staff as to what he should
discuss with Gen. Obregon. Secretary
Lansing said no State Department representative
would attend the meeting
of the officers. Secretary Baker suggested
that the question of greater cooperation
between the American and
Carranza forces in policing the banditridden
portion of Chihuahua probably
would be the main topic of discussion,
and the danger of clashes with civilIan
or irregular Mexican troops would
be greatly lessened by an understanding.
K?o trn. r>#?r*n rtment officials said no
steps toward preparing a reply to Gen.
Carranza's not? suggesting the recall
of American troops would be taken until
a report from G'en. Scott was received.
The War Department had only
routine reports today from Gen. Funston.
There was nothing: to indicate
what progress he had made In the authorized
redisposition of the forces In
Mexico.
Forces Are Amply Provisioned.
It was announced officially today that
the forces in Mexico and on the border
now were amply provisioned with
stocks on hand large enough to carry
them up to May 15 at loast. In addi- I
Lion the lines of supply leading to the I
big market centers from the border are 1
bo well established that every enter- SA
gency can be met promptly by the M M
quartermaster's department.
It is understood also that arrang^^T
stents have been completed to supnflf
vM
