THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN"
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SIXTH YEAR
12 PAGES
PHOENT
vM.nXrvr,XTKSDAY MORNING, APRIL 26, 1916
12 PAGES
VOL. XXVI, NO. 342
NAVAL SORTIE
i GERMAN SHIPS
DRY'S FEATURE
Elect oi
Attack
'oast
Rattle Cruisers
Knglish East
and Eimatie In
Twenty Minutes' Scrim
mage With British
ONLY CANNON FIRE
ON FRENCH FRONT
AiMhcr Zeppelin Raid Ou
England Reported Last
' Night. Aerial Activitv
IS y French A i mien
, Against German Positions
Lansing Issues Warning
Against Too Great Optimism
As To German Situation
AM
Official Dispatches Have
Contained No Intimation
of the Action That the
Berlin Government Will
ProbaMv Take
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire
A revolutionary outbreak in Ire
land, in which British troops and
x olunteers sustained relatively heavy
sualties tind a raid by a German
Kittle cruiser squadron on the east
oast of Kngland, in which, the raid
ers t-Hcfiiie'l after having bombarded
l.oe.stoft and bit two British cruis
ers and a destroyer, iire the out
rtauding features of the war.
So far as has been made public,
the revolution in Ireland has not ex
tended beyond Dublin where members
f the Sinn Fein society on Monday
aptured the postoffice and other
I'oints in Dublin and in the fighting
which ensued twith the troops and
loyalists, killed at least eleven of the
city's defenders and wounded nearly
a score of others. What the losses
f the revolutionists were has not
een stated. The British government
asserts that the situation In Dublin
i.ow is well in hand.
The German battle cruiser squad
ion made its attack on Ixnvestoft.
renin fire on the coast and killing
l wo men. one woman and a child.
British light cruisers, torpedo boat
lestroyers and air craft chased the
Germans who retreated hastily. Two
British cruisers and a destroyer were
bit by German shells, but none of
them were sunk.
Except In Lorraine there lias been
:tn entire absence iif i.-ilautcj; fiht
lnsr .Mig guns however have contin
ued their rain of shells on opening
l-vsitions at various points.
At jh Chapelotte in Ixirraine the
Germans launched a heavy infantry
itttack against the French which was
fepulsed. Some of the Germans ob
tained a footing fit a portion of the
rrench salient, but later were driven
out with heavy losses.
Around Hill 304 and in the region
of Ksnes and f'umleres, northwest of
Verdun the bombardment continues i
Intense. To the east of Verdun, j
around Moulainville. there also has j
leeii a violent bombardment in thej
Argonne. The French have destroyed
with their Runs a German post and
shattered German trench. Consider
able aerial activity by the Krench
airmen in which four German ma
chines were brought down, is re
ported by Piiris.
'in the eastern front near Garbu
novka the Russian made a heavy
attack against the Germans but. ac
cording to Berlin, were repulsed.
Heavy artillery engagements still
tire in progress in the upper Corde
nle and Montesan Michele zones of
the Austro-Italian front.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
Secretary Lansing in a conference
today with newspaper correspondents,
deprecated the publication of reportB
tluU official dispatches to the state de
partment from Ambassador Gerard
might make concessions to the United
State in reply to the note demanding
the immediate abandonment of the
present methods of conducting sub
marine warfare. He said official dis
patches to the department from Berlin
contained only ouotatiotis of newspa
per expressions similar in many cases
to the editorial excerpts cabled to this
country in press dispatches.
The latest message received from
I Mr. Gerard. Secretary Lansing said,
! ., A.til K.fA.A tho irYinorlul i-lcillcel-
loi. lr. von Bethmann-Hollweg had
returned from a visit to the emperor
nt the front, and had conferred with
the ambassador.
It i understood here that one of the
objects of the various conferences
known to have taken place between of
ficials of the Berlin foreign office and
Ambassador Gerard had been to make
it plain to the Ambassador that there
would be no avoidable delay in re
sponding to the American note de
manding immediate action.
It is felt here that stories indicating
that Germany might make certain con
cessions and that the German govern
ment was willing to go to great lengths
to preserve the friendly relations with
the I'nited States might find their way
baik to Germany in distorted form and
I.ave a bad effect upon the people. The
infernal political situation in Germany
always has been extremely delicate
when questions involing the subma
rine policy were under consideration.
The German Attitude
UK RUN, April 25.. 3 p. m. (via Lon
don. April 26, 2:16 a. m.) Prior to his
departure for headquarters to consult
with Emperor William, the submarine
issue p.i:d Germary's relations with the
Vnited States were again under con
sideration todr.y by Dr. von Rethmann
ttotltreg Imperial chancellor and James
W. Gel ai d. the A.merican ambassador.
A definite decision probably will not
be arrived at until the chancellor has
reached headquarters tomorrow after
noon. All the surface indications how
ever, point more and more to the prob
ability that an arrangement regarding
the Sussex and a modus vivendi on
the submarine problem will be offered
to the United States and that a sincere
endeavor to reach an understanding
will be made from this side, putting
the decision regarding the future
status of relations upon Washington.
The public and the press continue
to view the situation gravely but
calmly, and for the greater part, with
a desire that a way out of the con
troversy may be found.
The widely differing Vossiche Zei
tung and Tages Zeit.ung seem to find
reason for the belief that an under
standing between Germany and the
United States will be arrived at. Un
der thi- healing: "Possibilities of an
Understanding"' the Vossiche Zeitung
revives the guaranties which Germany
gave to the United states in the case
of the ship William 1. Prye, and
which, if extended to all submarine
warfare, the paper believes, would
satisfy A merit, a. Such an admission,"
it says, "would indicu'e no sacrifice
of hont.r."
The Vossiche Zeitung declares t lint
no matter what differences of opinion
exin among Germans no one capable
of serious thought can regard a break
as either desirable or as a matter of
Indifference.
"To answer tweepiugly in the affir
mauve, continues the caper. "In
volves no smulln degree of respon
sibility than in the negative.
the chief question is whether in
America good will and the desire for
j" uiiuinidiiuiii sun xisi at all, or
whether the White House is titter-
mined to time matters in all circum
stances to a. ureak. According to the
wording of the note the president is
willing to receive proposals from
Germany, at least this conception is
gamed from American newomei
comment."
The Tages Zeitung devoted the
grenter part of its leader to an at
tack on the German papers that have
spoken hopefully of a peaceful out
come of the crisis, and reiterates that
the Sussex ease by itself is not re
sponsible for the present situation.
Such papers as are favoring a set
tlement of the case." the Tages Zcl
ti.ng f.ddV "appear to prefer to re-
iiuuiictf a., citective military and
economic war more than to give
Get mar. -American rcjatipmr.
ll'e entile two columns if the
Count von Reventlnw's ejitorial
breathes the fear that nn cnd-rstni.d-ing
will b? reaohed in contrast to th?
other papers which hopes that it
may be.
TD THE ALLIES
BELATED REPLY
Regret That Exigencies of
War Has Made It Neces
sary to Infringe Upon
American Interpretation
of Neutral Rights
Army Increase Bill
Escapes From Mann's Grip
And Goes to Conference
WILL MAKE RFRDEN
LIGHT AS POSSIBLE
If They Have Transgressed,
It Is Not So Bad to Seizt
Neutral Ships As to Send
Them to the Bottom of
the Ocean
Senate Conferees Are All
"Big Armv" .Ven. The
250,000 AjjnenYhnent
Would Probably Be
Agreed to In Conference
up
OF PRO-GERMAi
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK. April IT,. The selec
tion of a jury to try Robert Kay, i
lieutenant of the German army, his
ELEGA
MAI
TESIN
STATES
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
COLUMBUS. Ohio, April 25. Hcpub
in-tu unu democratic nrKunizMtinn
! slates for delegates-at-lame to I be na.
brother-in-law. waiter sscnoiz ana j tional conventions were chosen today
raui uaecne, nejicieu last .igieimw in statewide presidenliul nreferem-.
for conspiracy to destroy ships earn
ing munitions of war to the entente
allies, consumed the first hour today
on the criminal branch of the United
States court. Out of a panel of forty
a. m.
counties
A Night Raid
LONlMiX. April 26. 3;3
Hostile airships raided the
of Kssex and Kent Tuesday night,
according to an official statement.
"The number of raiders is uncer
tain," the communication adds, "but
thry ditl not exceed four. The raiders
were met by a brisk anti-aircraft 1
talesmen, all but two were called, be
fore the jury finally was completed.
Both the government counsel and
at tomes s tor the defense exhausted
their peremptory challenges. A num
ber of the talesmen who either ad
mitted prejudices in favor of the en-
primanes marked by distinct apathy.
J heodore ;. Burton was designated
as the favorite of republicans and Pres
ident Wilson of democrats, for their re
spective presidential nominations. Del
egates elected by each party previously
had pledged their support to one of
j . ,-nr,ii.i.4ii.. unfia expresseu
i? their choice of Thomas R.
re-nomination as vice president.
The number of bullous bearing the
names of Theodore Roosevelt, llenrv
tente allies or expressed pro-German I Ford, Charles E. Hughes and William
tendencies were excused oy tne court rsryan, written in by hand, was
ft;r cause. The jury', as at length ac- small and considered of comparatively
cepted. contained one member, James little significance. One-fourth norma
Mi Shane, a manufacturer of tinder- vote was polled.
gunfire and retreated after achieving'
little or nothing."
An Italian Denial
WASHINGTON. April 25 A de
nial that Italian aviators violated In
ternational law in their raid on
Trieste. Austria last Friday was re
ceived in a statement Issued today by
the Italian embassy here on advices
from Rome. An official Austro-Hun-garian
statement reported, quoted in
he statement said nine civilians had
licen killed in the raid and- added
hat "by this attack Italy has for
feited every right to have her towns
spared."
"Reports forthcoming to the Italian
war officf" says the embassy state
ment, "have established that the Ital
Ian war office," says the embassy
statement, "have established that the
Italian aviators carefully avoided the
city, proper, which Is inhabited mostly
by Italians, and that sixty. Instead
(Continued on Page Two)
r, who declared his sympathy if.
the war. with Germany.
The presentation of the feOvern
ment's case will begin tomorrow.
Surprisingly Cheap
The entire, cos; of the alleged plot
to destroy the Welland canal did not
exceed $5,000 acording to documents
seized in the office of Wolf von Tee',
former secretary to Captain Franz von
Papen, the recaled German military
attache. Assistant United States At
torney Roger B. Wood said today.
Iforst von der Goltz, who was re
turned from England to testify before
the federal grand jury received $600,
Wood said. D. C. Ryan of Buffalo
received a check for J200, the dyna
mite cost SSI; six automatic pistol:;
about $100. and railroad fares about
$120.
Mr. Wood declared the only papers
seized in von Igel's office which he
had examined were those relating to
the , alleged canal conspiracy. He
characterized these as "most illum
inating. "
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. April 25. The lat
est I'ritish note in answer to the
American protests against allied inter
ferences with neutral trade made pub
lic tonight at the state department,
contends that the practice complained
of !'.re "iiiridk-allv sound and valid,"
and thin tin- relief which neutrals seek
is rather to be obtained by the miti
gation of necessary hardships than by
"an abrupt change either in the theory
or appbeation of a policy based upon
admitted principles of internalionui
law carefully adjusted to the altered
conditions t f modern warfare."
It Ji'-cicses thai "an impartial anil
influential commission," has been ap
pointed to find wan to minimize de
lays ind pledges the allies to make
Iheir restraints on trade as little bur
densome to neutrals as possible.
rbe note, in which the French gov
ernment concurs, reiterates the mili
tary necessity of regulating commerce
to in utraN condemns Germany and
justifies the effectiveness of he blk-
idc which was challenged by the last
American note.
Further diplomatic correspondence
on the liisus is exis-cterl to follow. The
unanimity of cntiineiit among the
world's neutrals f. r tl.c protection of
leutral rights is recognized in the
British note, which says in conc'iision:
His laicsty's government huve noted;
with sin ro .f.illssfaction rthe intimation
contained in the com liwllng passages
of the note from the I'nited States, of
the '-itenticn of the I'nited States to
undertake the task of championing the
!nteg-it of neutral rights.
"The first act of this war was the
unprovoked invasion by the enemy of
neutral ten ilory that of Belgium
wiicb he was s llemnly pledged bv
treaty to piotert.
Ti e disregard of neutral rights has
since been extended to naval warfare
iy the wanton destruction of neutral
merchant ships on the high seas re-
ga.'tliess of the lies of those on board
His- Majesty's government would wel
come any combination of neutral na
tions under the lead of the I'nited
States which would e:;ert an effective
inflmnce to prevent the violation of
neutral rights and they cannot be
lieve they or their allies have much to
fe;T from any combination tor the pro
tection of those rights which takes an
impartial and comprehensive view of
the conduct of the war and judges it
ty a reasonable interpretation of the
generally accepted provisions of inter
national law and by the rules of hu
manity that have hitherto been ap
proved by the civilied world."
At the oulset the note suggests that
the American complaint is not so much
that shi,iment:i intercepted are really
intended for ue in the i'.uropean neu
tral countries to which they were dis-
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, April 25. Demo
cratic leaders in the house today fin
ally defeated the efforts of Minority
Leader Mann to prevent the army bill
from going to conference unamend
ed am1 the conferees of both houses,
appointed later, will meet tomorrow
to work out a final draft of the firs:.
great preparedness measure.
A special rule adopted after a brief
debate paved the way for action. The
rule permitted one motion to recom
mit the bill but most of the republi
cans, resenting Speaker (.'lark's recog
nition of Meyer London's right to
make the motion, declined to vote on
the proposal, and it was defeated 24S
to 1.
is m
AND
FORI
THER SITE 5
During tne discussion on the rule
today Mr. )Mann contended that a
regular army of at least 250,000 would
be needed for a first line defense if
tne country were orawn into war. i ftV ', 1 . V
The nitrate ubint uronosal was at- UttlCialS 1081'
tacked bv Remesentatives Lenroot of!
Wisconsin and Longworlh of Ohio,
who declared it was placed in th--bill
at the behest of the "uaterpower
lobby."
Representative Hay replied that the
conferees neve;- would agree to this
provision until ordered to do so by
the house. Prolonged applause fol
lowed. When a majority had sustained the
rule. Representative Kahn moved to
recjimit am! strike oat all of the
senate amendments except that relat
ing to increasing the army to 250,000.
Simultaneously Representatives Long
j oi New York opposing all military
and na. al increases, offered a motion
to recommit. A long parliamentary
wrangle over who should be recog
nized followed and the republicans
gucf-sing that Representative London
would Le the favored one because he
Hi
the Influ
ence Upon Conferees of
the Interventionists
Whom the Revolution
Has Driven to El Paso ,
THE "RUMORISTAS"
'ALREADY ACTIVE
Most of Reports of Recent
Outrages Across the Bord
er Started By Those Yho
Desire Invasion By United
States
bad voted asainst the original house
When the senate conferees were bin while Representative Kahn had
announced there was much comment J not, threw Representative Britten of
on the fact that all "big army" men
hat! been namtd. Senator Hitchcock.
the second majority member of the
military committee and opposed to a
large standing army, was not on the
list.
For almost a week Representative
Mann had led the fight in the house
against sending the measure to con-
Illinois, a republican who stood alone
with London against the original bill,
into the breach with a motion to re
commit. The right to make such a
motion, the republican leaders con
tended, belonged by tradition to the
minority.
"The gentleman from New York is
i minority in himself and he is
ference. He insisted upon having it j recognized." t;;; speaker ruled, w'lib:
recommitted to the military commit
tee with instructions to strike out the
provisions for a nitrate plant and to
insert the provisions of the senate bill
lor 250,00 standing army and a fed
eral volunteer force.
the republicans Mood up and shouted
ob.V-Jticiis. Mr. Mann declared it was
a democratic trick and motioned the
republicans to remain in their seat
when the vote on the motion, was
taken.
IRISR CLASH
MANY KILLED
EVEN CALLES
T
mob seized Stephen's Green, a large
park near the Royal I'nlversity and
the postoffice. The telegraph and
telephone wires were cut and houses
n various iiartsof the town occupied.
(Continued on Page Two)
Strike Stops Construction
of Governments Alaskan Road
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. April 25. All Work
on the government railroad in Alaska
lias been brought to a standstill by a
renewal of the strike among workmen
on the line and there will be no attempt
to continue construction until a definite
settlement of the labor troubles has
been effected.
A dispatch reaching Secretary Lane,
of the interior department, today re
vealed that the walkout last Saturday,
described In news dispatches an affect
ing work north of Anchorage, had in
reality -resulted in the abandonment of
operations all along -the line. Aftr
conferring with Secretary Redfield, of
the commerce department. Secretary
Wilson, of the labor department, and
Attorney General Gregory, Mr. Lane
announced it had been decided to await
an award of the government mediators
sent to settle the controversy and Its
acceptance by both sides before making
any efforts to go on with construction
work.
The workmen are asking 55 instead of
35 cents an hour.
Massachusetts Results
BOSTON, April 25. Massachusetts
will be represented in the Republican
national convention by an unpledged
delegation, if the outcome of today's
primaries may be judged from slightly
more than half of the total vote tabu
lated at 11 o'clock tonight.
The returns left little doubt that the
unpledged group of candidates for del-egates-at-large,
headed by Governor
McCafl, had defeated the ticket whose
members had declared themselves for
j the candidacy of Theodore Roosevelt.
At 11 o clock tonight only three dis
tricts, the Tenth, Kleventh and Twelfth,
comprising the city of Boston, had re
ported complete returns for district del
egates. In each of these districts un
pledged delegates were elected over
Roosevelt men. There were similar
contests in the thirteen other districts.
There were contests in eleven dis
tricts among the democrats, but these
were personal, and all the -candidates
were understood to favor the renom
ination of President Wilson.
The vote in the republican primaries
was very light.
One hundred and fifty-three election
precincts out of 1.140 in the state gave
McCall 4,208. Lodge 4.115, Washburn
3,972, Crane 3,46, Weeks 3,!i2, Gard
ner 3,766, Bird 8,704. Cushing 3,686,
McCall,, Lodge, Weeks and Crane are
unpledged. The others huve declared
for Roosevelt.
Later the unpledged group showed
gains, and when one-third of the vote
was in. each of this group had a lead
of approximately 4.000 votes over the
Roosevelt candidate.
The unpledged group carried Bos
ton Mcfall leading with 30,637 votes.
Crane received the highest vote of
this group, !),24. Bird headed the
Roosevelt - group with 7,276. Wash
burn vvas lowest with 6,553.
F
HI
Republican A. P- Leased Wire
DOCGLAS. Ariz., April 25. Follow.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire I
LONDON". April 25. Dublin has!
.een the scene of serious fighting be-i ing the receipt today of a telegram from
ween members of the Sinn 1-ein so-; tlen. Alva.ro obregon, minister of war
teiy and regular troops reinforced by. In the de facto government, in which
yal volunteers. The loyalists lost! Obregon said that he expected to ar-
about a dozen men killed anti nine- i rive in . I narz Wednesday, Gen. P. Elias
teen wounded. The casualties of thelCalles. military governor of Sotiora.
rebels have not been ascertained, (began making arrangements for holding
None of the disturbers were arrested.; a telegraphic conference with the cab
The trouble started at noon Mon- I inei member. It was announced by Ives
dav in the center of Dublin when a G. Lelevier. Mexican consul here, that
General Calles will request General
Obregon to give him orders as to the
disposition and movements of de facto
troops in Sonora. Arrangements for
getting a "clear wire" from Agua
Troops from the Curragh and Loyal Prieta to Juarez through the I'nited
(Continued on Page Two)
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO. April 25. An Importan
action involving the fate of the Chi
cago. Hock Island and Pacific rail
way company which was begun here
today in the United States district
court before Judge Ferdinand A. Gie
ger, when arguments on a petition
for foreclosure was begun.
Foreclosure is sought by the Pea
body committee, representing $23.0'IO,
000 of the first anil refunding mort
gage bonds of the company, the total
isi-ue of which is $110,000,000.
They contend that payment of in
terest Viy receivers' certificates is
to default, arguing that
this would mean that the bondholders
were being paid with their own
money. L. C. Krauthoff acted as at
torney for the Pea body committee.
Holders of stock and receivers' cer
tificates and of some of the bond
holders opposed this view. Mr. Kraut
hoff explained that the Peabody com
mittee acted because the Central
Trust company and David R. Francis,
ti'itee of the mortgage bond holders,
declined to foreclose.
Henry v. Poor, attorney represent-'
irg the Central Trust compuny ex
plained that his company did not
want to seek foreclosure at this time
tcc:i;i"e of the purpose for reorgani
zatioi. of the stockholders headed by
Nathan Amster.
Attorney Lesing Rosenthal opposing
foreclosure, questioned the right of
tfl i'eabody committe to ask for it.
"To :.!low foreclosure now would
wreck the road," said Mr. Rosenthal.
olunteers were hastily summoned
ind fighting hetween them and the
mob begun almost immediately.
An official communication concerti
ng the disturliance was issued this
evening. It says:
At noon yesterday serious disturb
ances broke out in Dublin. A large
party of men identified with the Sinn
Feiners party, mostly armed, occu
pied Stephen's Green and took pos
session forcibly of the postottice
where they cut the telegraphic and
telephonic wires. Houses also were
occupied in Stephen's Green, Ack-
ville street, Abbet street and along
the quays.
"In the course of the day soldiers
arrived from Curragh and the situ
ation is now well in hand. So far as
is known here, three military officers.
four or five soldiers, two loyal volun
teers and two policemen have been
killed and four or five military offi
cers and seven or' eight soldiers and
six volunteers wounded. No exact in
formation has been received of the
casualties on the side of the Sinn
Feiners.
Reports received from Cork, Limer
ick, Funis, Tralee. and both Ridings
of Tipperary show that no disturb
ances of any kind have occurred in
these localities
The first announcement of the
trouble was made in the headquarters
today by Augustine Birrell, secretary
for Ireland who said that the situa
tion was well in hand, but that com
munication with Dublin was still dif
ficult.
The only details surrounding the
situation are the meagre ones con
tained in the official announcement
but government officials expressed
the opinion tonight that with Sir
Roger Casement and two of his aides
in prison in London the troops were
in control of the situation.
States were made by Consul Lelevier.
Several thousand de facto troops un
der command of General Arnulfo Go
mez, have been concentrated for sev
eral weeks at Colonia Morelos, 65 miles
southeast of Agua Prieta. near the
boundary of Sonora and Chihuahua,
awaiting orders from General Obregon
to enter the latter state.
The absence of these orders has been
puzzling to the Mexican leaders, as
General Obregon's command for the
concentration was urgent, brooking no
delay. Calles has been as much in the
dark as any one els? regarding the ulti-
mate intentions of his government tela- I
tive to troop movements. j
General Calles is confident that the
conference between General Scott and I
rihmmin U'ill result in tin HLTPPrnMlt !
i .:..' uj .i,.. i ji,. ,..i.i. 1'iean d
i ft IK i rii iiitu nil nit- imuiruiuir. n mi- ;
drawal of the American soldiers and
Republican A. P. Leased WireJ
' r:L PASO, Tex., April 25. Mexican
officials in Juarez, it was learned to
night may muke recommendations to
General C'arranza asking that the con
ference between General Hugh L
Scott and General Alvaro Obregon le
held at some other point than Juarez
El Paso.
This move, ii' it is made, will be based
on th strong inier eniionisx ieenn
which exists htre and in the fear that
influence adverse to the do facto gov-
rnment might be brought to bear on
the conferees.
There is no question that, the inter
ventionists are very strong in fci
Paso. The (celing is intensified by
the presence here of a large nunioer
of American refugees who nave ueen
reduced to poverty through beinsc
forced to abandon the businesses they
had built up ji Mexico. In addition
there is a large and powerful element
composed of heads of big mining con
cerns in Mexico who have been com
pelled to close down their plants since)
a year or more ago and who are al
most unanimously in favor of inter
vention. A certain section of the interven
tionists have unfortunately caused
some friction by sedulously creating
rumors of outrages committed on
Americans by Mexicans and for th
destruction by Mexican mobs of Amer
ican propertv. These stories were
either grossly exaggerated or purely
imaginary and hate caused deep re
sentment on the part of Mexican, of
ficials in Juarez. There is ahvay.
sure to be a fresh crop of then; every
time it is reported that the American
roops are going to be withdrawn.
At the same time both sides ex
press the greatest satisfaction over
the conference. The interventionists
:ire convinced that General Scott will
be the bearer of an ultimatum to the
de facto government, the Mexicans
and those Americans who have no
material interests in Mexico anr
equally positive that the American
government is simply seeking ade
ouate grau.-tntees that General Car
ranza is in a position to protect the
border and cope with the, bandits as
a oreliminaiv step to the withdrawal
j of the American troops
I The "rumoristas'' have fought san-
auinary battles in the last few days
I at Satevo. Stan Antonio. Xamiquipa.
I Parral and points east and west, but
every reliable report received here
from the interior reports no serious
disturbance of anv kind.
Wd Meet Tomorrow NiaHt
"WASHINGTON, April 25. General
obregon. minister of war of the Mex-
facto government, is expected
to arrive at tne border for his con-
that the Gomez troops will be ordered j Pr m? " -Mi, ,or ""P" l'-
into Chihuahua to take part in the Soo(t- 'ml" of s,a!f 1f tn American
campaign against Villa and other out- ' arnl'- ' Thursday night at the latest,
laws. Consul Lelevier says. j Xo definite word as to when he would.
At the same time that he reouests rPa-" Juarez was received Today, now-
General Obregon to give him some in- j 'veT. either at the stale department
sight into tiis plans for the immediate. '"" 'he Mexican embassy,
future. General Calles will report the i Embassy officials thought it pos
latest details of the Sonora concentra- sible he might reach the border to
tion, also giving a resume of the Yaqui . right. Advices from General Car-
An Act of Folly
LONDON, April 26 "An act of fol
ly by political lunatics, old disgruntled
cranks and young sin Feiners," is the
orthodox view of tho nationalists on
the uprising in ireland as expressed
by Matthew Keating, member of par
liament frani South Xillumey. Mr.
Keating has been active in Irish af
fairs for six years.
-c
MISSING CAVALRYMAN
Indian campaign during the last few
weeks, since he assumed complete con
trol of the military situation in Sonora.
A succession of victories resulting in
the demoralization of the Indians have
been reported.
It is the intention of General Calles
to leave before the end of the week for
Hmpalme, the headquarters of the
Yaqui campaign.
He will remain but a short time, in
conference with his suborduiates, and
will then return to Agua, Prieta.
Persistent rumors of sanguinary en
gagements which were said to have oc
curred in the vicinity of Parral het ween
American and Mexican forces, served to
cause uneasiness on both sides of the
border today, although no confirmation
could be obtained from any source.
r.mza indicated that Obregon started
rorlh last Sunday evening. A dis
patch to the state department, how
ever, indicated that it was early Mon
day morning before his train pulled
out. On this statement it is estimated
that he might arrive in Ju trez to
morrow nigiii but probably not until
Fricay.
General Scott will be attended at
the conference by Major General Fun
ston, commanding the southern de-
purnnent and in direct charge of he
border situation iind the pursuit in
Villa. It is understood General Ob
regon will bring with him several
Mexicans personally with him.
There were no developments hers
(Continued on fage Two)
Anthracite Miners' Strike
Said to be Inevitable
Reoublican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, April 25. A special
dispatch from General Funston to the
war department reveals that Private
Kichelherger. a trooper of the Thir
teenth cavalry with his mind unbal
anced, wandered away from his com
mand after th" fight between Ameri
can soldiers and Mexicans at Parral
and has not been found.
An appeal has been made to the
Mexican authorities to help locate the
missing soldier.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
::r YORK, ' April 25. Efforts to
harmonize the demands for anthracite
coal miners and the concessions of-
to reach an agreement only after it was
found that not one of the eleven essen
tial demands of the miners had been
favorably received by the operators.
The general board of the miners will
fered by the operators were broken off i convene here tomorrow to receive the
today after more than eight weeks of report of the sub-committee, after
almost continuous discussion by a joint i which a joint conference will be held
sub-committee representing both oper
ators and employes. Predictions were
made tonight by members of the min
ers' general board that the tri-district
convention to be held at Pottsville, Pa.,
on May 3, would vote in favor of a
strike. The joint sub-committee, it was
announced, gave up the task of trying
Thursday. Whether negotiations will
be renewed with a view to reaching a
peaceful settlement of the differences
wilt depend largely upon a disposition
on the part of one side or the other to
offer further concessions, according to
those who have been participating in
the discussions.
