it
I
{i
A
.1
THIS PAPER iaaued in
Two Sectiona 8ection
two—pages 1 to 6—Lo
cal news, stories, corre
spondence and Denison
locals.
VOL. 51
EASTER SERVICES
AT THE CHURCHES
Ideal Weather Brings Out Large
Crowds to Attend Meetings at
Various Places of Worship.
SPECIAL SERVICES AT CHURCHES
Usual Dress Parade Was Much in Evi
dence—Very Pleasing Cantata at
Methodislt Church in Evening
Sunday was an ideal Easter day and
one that will long be remembered in
this and other cities of the country.
When dawn broke Easter morning it
was upon a gladsome day. The sun
was shining brightly, the weather was
AVarm and all gave hope of a beautiful
clay. There was a dazzling showing of
spring styles in .evidence at all of the.
churches and .E^ster* lilies, palms and
evi lowers used in great profusion
went far toward adding to the general
attractiveness of the churches.
As always at Easter, appropriate
music was an important part of nearly
every service, the joyous hymns and
anthetns marking the close of the
Lenten season and the rejoicing in a
risen Lord. At some of the churches
communion was celebrated, members
received and the ordinance of baptism
administered. The places of worship
were crowded at the morning services,
the ladles bedecked and gowned in the
most alluring costumes and the hus
bands, brothers and sweethearts out
iu the same spirit.
Methodist Church
Easter Sunday was a happy day at
the Methodist church, especially beau
tiful and impressive services having
been planned for the entire day, which
were successfully'carried out. At the
morning hour of worship, following
the special Easter sermon by the pas
tor, ten adult members were welcomed
into the church. The "Hallelujah
Chorus" from the "Messiah," reiylered
by the choir, was indeed beautiful, as
was a solo sung by Mr. Roy Dowell, of
Des Moines. Mr. Powell, who is di
rector of one of the large choirs in the
city of Des Moines, happened to be
visiting friends in Denison on Sunday
and kindly added to the Easter service
with his music. The regular Easter
program by the children of the Sun
day school was presented at the Sun
day school hour and was heartily en
joyed, not only by the little ones,'but
the older persons present as well^ In
stead of the regular preaching srvice
in the evening, th large choir of over
thirty voices rendered the cantata,
"The Easter King." Under the direc
tion of Mr. B, J. Sibbert, the singers
f/
Important After Easter
Millinery Clearance
An offering of 100 women's hats for
Thursday, Friday aud Saturday of this
week. These are hats that formerly sold
up to $5. Priced for this week only at
$1.98
•I
had attained a high state of perfection
and the production was enthusiastical
ly received and appreciated by the
large congregation present. The res
urrection day of' our Lord could not
have been more fittingly, observed than
by the inspiring music of the choir, the
helpful remarks of the pastor and the
exercises of the little ones of the Sun
day school.
Baptist Church
The Sunday school had charge of
the Sunday morning service at the
Baptist church Easter day. The chil
dren presented a program entitled
"Easter Day Around the World
which was good. For eight weeks the
school has been studying foreign mis
sions and thiR exercise was a summary
of the work interspersed with readings
and music. At the conclusion of this
program the winners In the essay con
test on the subject, "Baptist Foreign
Missionaries of Today," were an
nounced. Missionary magazines were
awarded to Mrs. Williams, Emogene
Welch, Ila Blackman, Alma Maycock,
Marion Cassaday, Evelyn Conery, Har
old Cassaday, Leslie Nordholm, and
Freland Conery. Besides the maga
zines special prizes were given to
those having the best papers, consid
ering their age and department in
Sunday school. Freland Conery, 8
years old, won first, Einogene Welch
second and Marion Cassaday third.
Presbyterian Church.
On account of the absence of the
pastor, Rev. J. C. Tourtellot, due to
the serious illness of his father at
Hopkinton, churches services were not
held on Easter Sunday at the Presby
terian church. At the morning hour
(Continue,! on page two.)
ELECTRIC FLAG HERE.
Flag Donated by Hon. L. M. Shaw
Arrives and Will Be Placed
on the Court House.
The electric flag presented to the
city of Denison by Hon. Ueslie M.
Shaw, arrived last week and will be
installed in the near future on the court
house. It had first been planned to
put the flag on the dome of the court
house, but on account of its large di
mensions it was feared that it might
be damaged in wind storms, so it has
been decided to place it jyst above the
entrance on the south side of the
building, where it can be seen from
the Northwestern station. The flag is
made of metal and painted in colors
and at night will be lighted with elec
tricity and in such a manner that it
will appear to be waving in the breeze.
It is indeed a beautiful gift and one
that will long be appreciated by the
residents of Denison.
Special in Wash Fabrics for This Week
We would advise an early selection while the assortments are com
plete and prices low.
Printed Seed Voiles—38-inch width, floral designs. Regular 35c
grade priced at 23c a yard.
Awning Stripe Voiles in blue and white and black and white. For
sport skirts and middies. Priced at 35c a'yard.
AUTO ACCIDENT
NEAR VAIL
Denison Young Men in Bad Accident
.Sunday Evening When Return-'
ing Home From Vail.
RALPH HOLMES BADLY INJURED
Car Skidded in Sofit Earth and Went
Through Barbed Wire Fence and
Landed in a Pasture.
William McHenry with a party oi
friends met with an accident. Sunday
afternoop about 5:30 o'clock when re
turning home from. Vail over the Lin
coln highway in the McHenry roadster,
which resulted in the injury'of two of
the members of the party. Ralph
Holmes was, badly injured and was
taken to the Denison hospital, where
his wounds were dressed.
The party, consisting of William Mc
Henry, Ralph Holmes, William Wear
mouth and a boy by the name of Co
burn, from Carroll, lott Denison late
in the afternoon for a ride to Vail. On
their way home and only a few miles
out of "Vail, Wijliam McHenry, who
was driving the car, slowed up to
wait for another party of boys who
were back of them, and turned out to
the side of the road. The dirt along
side of the road was soft and the car
skidded down the embankment and
William, fearing it would turn turtle
straightened up the wheels and the
'car crashed into a barbed wire fence
and landed in a pasture. Ralph was
sitting oil the lap of William Wear
mouth and his leg was cut almost to
the bone for about eight inches and
in addition he received other cuts an«l
bruises. Youpg Coburn, of Carroll,
was slightly cut and bruised, whilo
McHenry and Wearmouth escaped
without any injuries whatever. The
car was not damaged and Ralph was
rushed to Denison and taken to the
hospital, where his wounds were dress
ed. Eight stitches were required to
sew up the gash in his leg. He was
able to return to his home Monday af
ternoon, however, and is now getting
along nicely, although his injuries are
causing him considerable pain.
It was fortunate indeed tfeflt none
of the young men were killed and had
it not been for the fact that William
McHenry kept liis head' the results
would no doubt have been more disas
trous. The boys were not racing and
it is said the car was traveling about
fifteen miles an hour when the atci
dent occurred.
John Schaupp, of Ft. Dodge*, was a
pleasant guest at the Carl F. Kyehula
home Sunday and Monday. I
V,
lr .,A
THE DENISON REVIEW
THIS WEEK'S NEWS THIS WEEK, NOT NEXT WEEK.
DENISON. IOWA, WEDNESDAY, APRIL 26, 1916.
TRACK MEET LAST SATURDAY
Denison High School Held Annual
Tryout for the Big Triangular
Meet at Ida Grove Friday.
The local high school track men
pulled off tlieir annual homo meet
Saturday before a fair sized crowd.
Some excellent track material was
found and with these men out stirring
ui) the cinders Denison should bo well
represented at the coming meets. The
track was not in s-iiape for fast time,
but the records made were quite sat
isfactory.
Many surprises were sprung. Lally
proved to be the dark horse, winning
the high hurdles, the -Mo yard dash
and with several seconds and thirds
tied Wearmouth for second individual
honors at 19 points. Locke proved to
be the star., winning two iirsts, three
seconds and two thirds, a total of 21
points. In no event was the interest
lacking and it was not until the last
event was over that the individual win
trier could he picked.
Further tryouts will bo held next
Tuesday night to pick out the
High jump: 1st, Locke 2d. Lally
"2d, Brodersen. 4 ft. 11 in.
44-0 yard dash: 1st, Lally 2d, O'Con
nor 3d, Wearmouth. tiS seconds.
Broad jump: 1st. Locke 2d, Teut
3f, Lally. 17 ft. 1 in.
£20 low hurdles: 1st. Teut 2d,
Poole: 3d, Lally. 29 seconds.
£:'0 yard dash: 1st, Wearmouth 2d,
Teut 3d, Locke. 27 seconds.
Discus throw: 1st, Wearmouth 2d,
Locke 3d, Cavett. 79 ft. 3 in.
Half mile: 1st, Poole 2d, Lally 3d,
Cavett. 2 min. 42 sec.
Pole vault: 1st, Gary 2d, Locke
3d, Cavett. 7 ft. SVi in.
Mile run: 1st, Poole 2d, Cavett
•3d, Lally.
Roy Partridge has accepted a po
sition as manager of the hardware de
partment of the Boys Store, filling
the vacancy of Robert Beutel, who re
cently resigned. Mr. Partridge has
been eugaged in tlio carpenter trade
for a number of years find of course the satisfaction of everyone,
understands the requirements of "build
er's hardware. He commenced his
duties on Monday of this week.
Mrs. George Ainsworth, of Clinton,
111., is visiting in Denison with her sis
ter-in-law, Mrs. E. O. Thiem. V-
at Savings of 30 to 50 per cent
This offering is made up of 7 5 suits in silk taffetas, gabardines, fine twills, wool poplins and black and
white checks. All sizes from 16 to 50. The entire offering i» divided into three lots.
All suits that formerly sold up to $26.00 priced at $14.85
This is a special lot of suits offered for Thursday, Friday and Saturday of this week only, and positively every suit in the lot is new style and individ
ual in itself. COMC EARLY.
After Easter Sale of Spring Coats
Your choice of any spring coat in our house for Thursday, Friday and Saturday at a discount of 25 per
cent or 1 -4 off. This sale offers you an opportunity to secure new spring garments at the height of the season at a frac
tional part of their regular price.
An Offering of Silks at Much Below Regular Prices
Fashion says: "Women will wear silks this year." For this week
we offer lustrous, appealing, wonderful silks at rpuch below regular
prices.
40-inch Silk and Wool Poplin. Fine lustrous chiffon linish splen
did Aveight will give exceptional service. Worth $1.50. Priced for
this wee if at 98c a yard. Most all desirable shades are seen in the of
fering.
Taffettt Silks in stripes and all new patterns. Dotted foulards anil
black and white check silks. All new desirable, patterns are seen in
this offering. Priced at 77c a yard.
40-inch All-Silk Crepe do Chine. Fine weight. Very practical
for spring wear. Colors are lavender, grey, green, Copenhagen, navy,
white, pink and black. Would retail at other times at $1.98. Priced
for this week at $1.29.
36-inch Flowered Silk Poplins in navy, grey and copenl ag«n.
Regular $2.00 value priced at $1.19.
Items of Interest in Our Economy Section
31-inch Aurora Gingham. 12ic value. 20 different patterns.
Priced at 9c a yard.
Women's Hosiery. All sizes, high quality, all first grade. Regu
lar 15c grade priced at 9c- a pair.
MENAGH'S STORE
HITCHING POSTS
UNDER DISCUSSION
Council Confronted With Problem,
and Will Let Commercial Club
or Business Men Decide.
PAVING IS RAPIDLY PROGRESSING
Paving Crew Busy Building New Curb
ing—Will Soon Be Ready for
Laying of Pavement.
The paving crow is busily engaged
in laying curb stone on tiie streets to
be paved in North Denison and get
ting everything in readiness for the
laying of the pavement. Most all of
the curb in North Denison is now in
place and the grading c.rew is work
ing on North Main street this week.
It will not be long now until actual
paving will be commenced and every
men.onc will have an opportunity of see
who will be sent to the triangular ineel jnsi just how paving looks in Denison.
with Ida Grove a,nd Storm Lake at Ida
Grove next Friday. The boys plan to
go by auto.
A big steam shovel arrived in Denison
the first of the week to be used in
rading and filling the dump "wagons
The summary of Saturday's meet is with the concrete mixture which goes
cn the streets.
The paving of the streets in the bus
iness section will prove to be a hard
ship on the merchants who will havo
some difficulty in getting delivery wag
ons and freight to their doors. It is
naid that a block of paving will be
as follows:
100 yard dash: 1st. Tout: 2d, Wear
mouth 3d, Locke. 12 seconds:
Shot put: 1st, Wearmouth: 2d,
Locke 3d, Brodersen. 39 ft. 3-4 in.
120 higli hurdles: 1st, Lally 2d,
Poole 3d, Tent. 18 4-.r seconds.
V.i id each day and of course consider
able time will be required for this to
set before traiBc is allowed to use it.
The city couucil has not come to any
decision in regard to the hitching posts
and wo understand that they favor a
special meeting of the Commercial
club to decide what should be done in
regard to the matter. Many are of
the opinion that the hitching posts
should be removed from the business
center of the city and placed around
the court house square, where there is
ample room for wagons and teams to
be hitched. Both Main street and
Broadway are far too narrow to permit
the hitching of teams on both sides
of the street and leave ample room for
traffic between. In other towns an
cities hitching posts have been re
moved from the business section and
placed on nearby side streets, reliev
ing to a great extent the congested
condition. No doubt the matter of
hitching posts will be disposed of to
The full text of President Wilsdn's
last note to Germany is printed on
page three of the first section in this
issue. The note, while pduched in.
friendly terms, is the strongest yet
sent fty this government to Germany.
All suits priced up to $35.00 offered at $22.50
All suits formerly sold up to $49.50 priced at $27.50
-t
MUSICALE FRIDAY NIGHT
Denison High School Students to Hold
Annual Festival Friday Eve—
Miss Wright in Charge.
The annual high school musicale will
be given at the high school assembly
room on Friday evening of this week,
for which an especially fine program
has been arranged. This feature of the
school year is always looked forward
to by parents and children and the
program this year will not be disap
pointing.
The boys' and girls' glee clubs have
been at work for the past few months
practicing on the different numbers
which are to. be given. Several chor
uses by the three glee clubs and other
students of the high sqiiool will be in
cluded in the program.
Miss Winifred Wright, supervisor of
music in the public schools, has had
complete charge of the training of the
glee clubs and choruses. Miss Wright
is an accomplished musician and has
met witlT great success with her music
work in Denison and everyone is loud
in their praises for her efforts along
this line.
The proceeds of the entertainment
will be used for the boys' and girls'
athletics and a large attendance is de
sired.
°ONY TO FLOYD RETMAN.
Pony Contest Conducted by E.
Chamberlin Ended Saturday—
Charlie Cramer Second.
The pony contest conducted by E.
C. Chamberlin, the jeweler which has
been under way for several months,
came to. a close Saturday afternoon
and Floyd Retman was awarded the
pony outfit, having received the larg
est number of votes.
Mr. Chamberlin inaugurated the
contest last winter and all of the little
folks were greatly enthused over the
fine Shetland pony, cart and harness
which were to be given to-the little
boy or girl receiving the highest "num
ber of votes. A number of children
entered the contest, but when it closed
there were only four active workers.
Votes were given with each purchase
made at the jewelry store.
The names of the four active work
ers, together with the votes they re
ceived, are as follows:
Floyd Rtman 2,447,996
Charles Cramer 998,065
Peter Cummings 348,985
Evelyn Lingle 175,885
Robert VonBoskirk, formerly an em
ployee of the Bulletin, bnt now work
ing at Ida Grove, spent Sunday in Den
ison visiting at the home of Mr. and
Mrs. C. M. "Jensen. His mother, Mrs.
R. L. VonBoskirk a resident of Ma
rengo, was also a guest at the'Jensen
home.'
If you know of any
news kindlyj hand or
phone th« Review News
department.
No. 17
CLEAN UP WEEK
BIG SUCCESS
Unusual I
interest is Taken This
Week in Order to Make Denison
a "City Beautiful.''
HAVE PUT DIRT ON THE RUN
City Electricians Trimming Trees
Kiddies After Cans and Bottle^—
Clean Up Spilrit Abroad.
"Clean Up Week" is being observed
iu Denison this week, and housewives,
school children and business men, in
compliance with tlfe national proclama
tion and in complauce with the
civic committee of ,the Commercial
club are bending every effort to make
Denison a truly "City Beautiful." All
over the city may be seen the work ot
the garden rake and paint brush and
everyone is doing everything possible
to make^Oenison look spick and span.
"Clean up" seems to be in the air and
many people are trimming their lawns,
painting their houses and sheds and
gathering all of the rubbish off of the
premises. The school children are in
terested in the movement and are com*
peting with one another to see that
not a single can or broken bottle is
overlooked and all are being taken to
the dump. Rubbish and all odd bits
of wood and lumber are being picked
up for fuel for the kitchen stove.
Among the women fplks house clean
ing seems to be in vogue. Rugs are
out being cleaned, interiors are being
redecorated and everything put in
readiness for the coming summer
months.
C.
The city officials are interested in
the movement and are assisting in ev
ery way possible to make the general
clean up effective. The city electri
cians are busy trimming branches along
their light wires so that the danger of
damaged wires during storms will be
lessened. Where property owners are
backward in regard to cleaning up
their premises they are politely noti
fied that they are expected to join the
clean up movement..
Three more days are left in "Clean
Up" week and wonders may be ac
complished in that time if everyone
gets behind the movement. Denison
is the best town in the state and we
are all proud of it, but let's get busv
and make it even better by making it
spotless. There is yet much to !o
done and if it can't be accomplished
this week it can be next. There is no
reason why Denison could not observe/
clean up week for fifty-two weeks in
the year
Is Your Figure Old or
New Fashioned? 1915 or 1916?
Very different are this'season's cor
sets from those of last year. Gone are
the shapeless, boneless models that pro
duced, the "uncorseted" effect and in
their place we have trim, closely fitting
corsets that follow the natural line of
the figure. They area trifle more curved
at the waist—a trifle higher in the bust
—a trifle shorter in the skirt and boued
to give a "free" hip.
The New 1916 Models if R. & G. Rastless Corsets
are designed to transform 1915 figures
into smart, up-to-date 1916 figures.
Whatever slenderness of line you may
have lost through the loose corseting of
the past two years you will regain when
you are fftted to one of the new R. & G.
corsets.
Models for all figures, alight, medium and heavy.
Prices $1.25 to $6.00
I
A 4
V.
-•'J
••••J
$
.v
S&i
