mi I mmmt i i w -hb r aaaa aai aai bw kw " -w Bana. .am. i w iyJViHrn. 'W a a a -a- T t r t : aBaBaa
1.' ( ..-Ai'vmniii
, -t - r v
WednndaYl'Iflii showers 4
I and cooler.
J
j 4 t I ! J I ! l ! I f I
txRstr xxruT.iux-Mi.
jail r rvMLia ikdqkx-w
MAYSVTLLE, KENTUCKY, WEDNESDAY, APRIL 20, 1010.
ONE COPYONE CENT.
"at. r "zrw. . a bbbbbt bbbbbi bbbb bbbbi viu. bbbb1 bbbb twBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBbav bbbbi bbp- 'bbbbbv . i -w- v7n i- .v. -bbbbbbbbbi
JBW' i 4 (ft,
Ffllllll II BnlO-IO lI I I 1 fncllnm that brlngi rosaUs. t)H jWM
JLIEaLI MLMM fUBfo FJ L II I I I I comlitcni with elrcm. 4. .BO
C . ,. .
Ms
If
f
OLD TURKEYS WANTED! SPRING TRAINING
Now i the time to sell your Old Turkeys. Bring thera At L(B(?
in quick. For the present we will pay pay for
Good Hen Turkeys 19c pounds
Good Tom Turkeys 17c pound
E. L. MANCHESTER PRODUCE CO.
no l'nrK Jicing Jiauuicapncu
By Cool Weather News of tho
riajers Who Arc Trjlng Out
With the Loral Club.
With cool weather slnco
training has begun hero tho players bcrod
MAJOR JOHN 8. HUHT KILLED AT
SPRINGFIELD, ILL. I
Mr. C. C. Calhoun received n tele-'
gram Tuesday morning announcing
that JInJor John 8. Hurt had been
Killed by being run over by a train
nt his homo In Springfield, III., Mon
day nlcht. Thorn wnrn nn fnril.nr.
spring tlculars. Major Hurt Is well romnm.
in Mays vl lie. havlnE married
PLANSMADE
For Jlngglcs Campmcetlug At Meeting
ot tho Hoard Tuesday .Horning
Illcren Kays Meeting Mill
Hegln July 27.
Tho Hoard of tho UukcIcs Camn-
are finding It rather hard to round Into Ml.. lIIo Sudduth Moorst .tator ot Zlt ting CTrral5,t tho hom2
shapo, Howovcr, tho boys aro worn- tho lato Mrs. 0. C. Calhoun of this
Salesman: "Why not try one of our Rip Van Winkle Rugs,
madam?"
Prospective Purchase "What kind are they?"
Salesman: "They have an unusually long nap."
We have them with any length nap
you may want.
New Rag Rugs in every size and
color, 49c and up.
at
HENDRICKSON'S
Paints
lng aomo of tho stiffness from their
Joints and aro hoping that tho weath
er will becomo more scasonablo soon.
Tho boys arc enjoying a stiff work
out every afternoon and will bo In
shapo when tho bell taps.
city. Deceased Is survived by hln
widow and threo sons, Messrs. John,
William and Sudduth Hurt. Ho will
bo burled in Springfield.
D0UDLK WEDDim
Harbeson Garage
Will Put Your Car in
Good Order For
Spring
Parts and Sup
plies Gars For Hire
Goodyear
OS AMON.OHIO
Fortified Tires
FORTIFutO AGAINST
Rim-CuU by the No-Itlm-Cut (eituro.
Sbwoau by lbe."On-Air" Cure.
Loom Tread. hy mimr rubber rlveti.
Imecnrity by 128 braided plnno wires.
Puncture, and Skidding by tbe double
thick AU-Weatber tread.
Tho nowest orrlvalB to try out with Tho county clerk's omen wan thn
tho local baseball team nro Mueller sccno of a doublo wedding Tuesday
and Elnsfcldt, catchers; Singleton and nil of tho contracting parties being'
Freeh, pitchers; Anders, Hibnor nnd from Long Lake, Mich. Tho two cou-
Albrlght. Infloldors. Shortstop Per- pies were Miss Alta Thnv. npori ir nnrt
kins, who played last season with tho Mr. Clifford J. Porter, aged 19' Miss
MayBvlllo Regulars, Is also trying out Kmma Short, aged 16, and Mr.Floyd
for tho shortflcld position, but It Is Yost, aged 25. Squlro Edward Ilullock,
not thought that ho will bo nblo to beat acting county Judge, performed tho
rvouy out ot mo ion. rcrKins nanaies ceremony in nis best atvlo
nimscir nicety, ooin m mo ncia ana at
tho bat, and should havo no trouble In I MUSICALE.
catcning on witn ono or tno otner
teams In tho O. S. L. Mr. and Mrs- Gcorco T. Harbonr'a
. . residence, ZI3 Wall street. Deneflt
Manager Jones received wora rrom Mason County Woman HnfTrnpn
ou..... jr 1 1 .. tr... i - ..I i n . tj
oiiurmiuij iciijt iutsuuj nujiug league, uerrcsnmonts rreo. Admls
ho would not bo able to get to Mays- slon 25 cents. April 29. 7:30 n. m
vlllo beforo Saturday. Kelly was one Tickets for salo at all drug stores
I of tho most popular members of last book atorrR. nn
year's team and tho fans aro anxious stores, Art Store and Library, wed-sat
to sco him In a MayBvlllo uniform . ,
"Rain. MJIS. C. P. DIETEMCII EXTEItTAIXS
Outneldor Tlnnln. who was a mem- Mrs. C. P. Dlotnrlr.h nf Fnt a
i i . i i i . . . . . : . .
uur ul lUBL jrcui-n u-uiu, is duukius uf sircoi, entertained with a noon-day
nun in piuvuuu. in maw iuo jruuui, mncn Tuesday in Honor of Mrs W J
follow needs to make him a first-class Cnpllngcr'a guests, Misses Elizabeth
ball player Is a little more aggressive- Splllman and Elizabeth Qoodo of near
ness. Louisville, and Mrs. J. A.
uovington.
Aianagcr joncs uid tne nrst -can
ning" of tho season Tuesday when ho WHEN WILL THEY LFMVl
reit'Hauu uuicaur uiuxuy, uuiuuiuur
uuiuiut uuu inuviuur iiumuu, iiunui jonn SI Odd or Hnhnrrnnn Mimitr
i of tho men showed any clnss and It was arrested by Chlof of Pollco Jame9
wuh mouBiit uauicsa io curry uicin. .MncKoy Tuesday afternoon for nnt
llUVlnc a license tner nn Vila nutnmn.
Tho fans can bo assured of an ex- bile. Hp tilo.i rniiv tn i..
hlbltlon game hero Sunday. The Mays- buforo Pollco Judge John U Whltaker
vino nuKuiura win pruuuuiy uo vuc ana was lined ? 13.90,
leam mai win oppoeo iuu icaeuors,
MASOX CIHCUIT CODIIT.
but If not, somo fast out of town team
will be secured. It is thought that the
strong Weidcmnnn team of Newport Tuesday in tho Mason Circuit Court
will bo tho attraction for Sunday, tho case of tho commnnwnnm, nin..
Ma' Perry Lawrence was dismissed nn mn.
. ... , . n . v .v. rl?n of tho commonwealth's attornoy.
It will be known definitely by the Tho case of J w iirr.v ..oi.
latter part of tho week whether or not Dates & RncorH Pnn.ir.,Minn r.
Frank Emmer will bo released by the panv was also itismi-m.i o. .i, ,i
.i . mi r i i : : .. '"c
v'uuiuuui utuu iu iiiuuniiu. i -rusi-- iendant s cost
dent i nomas ai. uusseu is maKing a
street. Those present wero President
I. M. Lane, Itov. E. U. Ovcrley, super
intendent of tho Covington district;
Itov. W. H. Davenport, superintendent
ot the Ashland district; Uev. E. B. Hill
of Vancoburg, Revs. J. M. Literal and
A. F. Felts ot this city, and Mr. John
Brodt of tho county.
It was decided that this year's meet
ing should begin on July 27 nnd end
on August 6, cloven days in all.
Itov. S. T. Franklin, president of
Union College at Darboursvlllc, was
soloctcd as tho spcakor for tho first
Sunday and to havo chargo of tho
night meetings. Dlshop William An
derson of Cincinnati, was decided
upon as tho speaker for tho second
Sunday. Rev. It. A. Hamilton will
havo chargo of tho young people's
meetings.
The board adjourned to meet nt tho
Old Settlers' Reunion at the camp
grounds on July 4.
Tho Woman's Auxiliary of tho Ma
son County Health League will meet
nt MIbs Casey's room on Court street,
Thursday afternoon at 1:30 o'clock, to
sow for Hayswood Hospital. All ladles
interested aro cordially invited.
Wc enn fill your order for
Ammonia Scrub Brushes Dutch Cleanser
Iirooms Buckets
Sal Soda Snpollo Mops
Phone us your wants
Dinger Brns.,
1D7 USt. Second St.
Phone 2D.
Mr. John H, Urynnt of Enst Second Miss LIda Wood left Wednesday
street, Is In Portsmouth, O., on a visit morning for Danvlllo to resume her
to his brother, Mr Frank Drynnt, who 'work as secretary to President Oan-
Is critically 111. .Held of Center College
' . . i u ii i i
Special Sale Price on i
a
S
8
i
Auto Goggles Plash Lights Safety Razors
Thermos Lunch Box Sets Icy-Hot Bottles
Balls Bats Skates
Maruil Oil Mop, 25c Ask about our Moth Killer
M. F.WILLIAMS DRUG COMPANY
QUIOK SERVICE, PHONE 91.
M
a
M
M
Special reduction salo of luncheon
sets this week at the Art Shop. 2t
Try a want ad In The Ledger's clas.
sided column. It will bring results.
strong bid for his services' and hopes j
I to land him.
COMMENCEMENT SPEAKERS CII0S-
EN BY COMMITTEE.
Preparatory to tho 191G commence
ment ot tho Maysvillo High School, a I
Rev. E. R. Ovorley ot Covington. Rev.
H. Davenport of Ashland, and Rov.
L. n. Hill of Vancoburg. wero hore
Tuesday to attend a meeting of tho
board of directors of Ruggles Camp-(.rounds.
I rcblock
commltteo composed of nine members Shopard.
ot tno racuuy, appointed oy suponn
tendent W. J. Capllnger, and nine
members of the senior class, appoint
ed by Class President James January.
UUK JASXiUK OHABUH met at the High School Tuesday after
LUMBER DELIVERIES noon and appointed six morabers ot
ar verv heavv this rear. BnlIflIns ",B """""""" w "t'l'' u" v"-
operatlons of all kinds aro In full ncel proKraru. inoso tnus
swing nnd w8 ara eettine more than honored wero Misses Ruth Wlllett.
nnr nhnrn of I.imhnr nrnra ollv "uli ouiuu uuu luuuuu iajkci, uuu
from the most experienced m expert Messrs. William Soward. January Jan
i.,,HHora Tho bn i,mt,., or,i uary and Henry Shea.
"VJ "U " AUUJUWt Nm f n fa A . . al
lnmhr vnliiM Tri.r'a wh ih.rf rtn ououiu iwo oi mo six named UIKC
.hoTr. i,.,vir. i,.,. tw- ,ho..M t.a , Uho honorB no chango will -bo mndo;
hinf in .hQf fapt'fnr. v,.. othorwlso tho two honor studonts wlir
II,,. .1...,. l,
i lie aiubuirjLuiuucr vunipauy I theso dropped
Corner Limestone aid Seccnd Streets.
Phons S19.
A. A. McLaughlin. L. IL Behas.
THE HDME OF QUALITY CLOTHES
"THAT'S THE KIND OF
CLOTHES I WANT"
Did you ever say that to yourself when you saw a well-dressed man?
Of course you have. A well-dressed man ALWAYS stands out above the
crowd. And It's so EASY to have trim and neat clothes of lasting material.
Let us show you how to do it economically.
3D. 3r3:H50KtI3Sra-E13R. &. CO.
Panama hats. Miss S.
WOMAN'S CLUB NOTES.
CURTAINS-By The Pair or By The Yard
Even for a great deal more money it would be impossible to get anything prettier or in better taste than
the attractive curtains by tho yard or by the pair which we now have on special display. In the former
line you will find countless fabrics from 15c to 75c yard. In curtains by the pair, 75c to $10.00, you can
select from a stock equally satisfying.
Cretonnes Are Supreme This Season
TIRES!
Kelly,
Miiler,
American,
U. S. Brander.
Bought before the advance.
Prices right. Big Stock. If
you need tires, here's your
Opportunity.
There will be an Important meeting
of tho board of tho Woman's Club at
the City Mission rooms Thursday aft
ernoon at 1:30 o'clock. All members
of the board aro urged to bo present.
Tno regular meeting of tho Woman's
Club will bo held In tho City Mission
rooms Thursday afternoon at 2:30
o'clock. Tho yearly oloctlon of of
ficers will take placo at that time.
All members are requested to be pres
ent at this meeting.
At the regular monthly meeting of
Maysvillo Commandery No. 10, Knights
Templar, Monday night, an Invitation
was given to tho Federation of Wo
men's Clubs, which meets hero on May
17, 18 and 19, to hold Ita banquet In the
Masonlo Temple.
I HUMANE OFFICES FROM CINCEN.
NATI TO WORK IN MAYS-YILLE.
and we are told we havo the largest stock in Maysville. Bright sunny styles, cool, quiet neutral tints.
Floral, garden, shadow and forest patterns, all ready in this complete stock. 15c to 35c yard.
Speaking of Silks
House Cleaning Wants 1
:rv
re-
Every one concedes the silk store of Mavsville is Hunt's. The silks vou want are here. Not in
striction but in profusion. When you see our stock you'll wonder there is so much talk about a silk famine
Some new arrivals in this department are japonica silkettcs at 50c yard. White grounds with graceful floral
designs in color accentuated here and there with just the right touch of black. These pretty fabrics are one
yard wide and will make very dainty cool summer frocks.
191
.r-j-A.
f 1852 HUNT'
At a meeting ot the County Hu
mane Society Monday night It was de
cided to have a humano ofllcer from
Cincinnati here two days in ovory
wok. President Trounstino of tho
Cincinnati society, Is much interested
iu tho work here, having helped to or
ganize tho local society, and 1b send
ing tho officer hero freo of chargo. Tho
Humane Society hopos to broaden its
work In tho county In tho near future
MRS. J. BARBOUR RUSSELL RE
TURNS HOME.
Tho many friends of Mrs. J. Barbour
Russell, who was operated upon sev
eral weeks ago in ClncinnaU, will bo
glad to know that sho has so far re
covered that sho was ablo to bo re
moved to her homo in this city Tues-"
day. She will remain under tho caro
of a trained nurso for sovcral weeks.
City Attorney John M. Calhoun Is Hon. John P. McCartney ot Flem-
in Springfield, 111., called by tho death Ingsburg, was here Tuesday on legal
of his undo, Major John S. Hurt. I business.
Mr. and Mrs, James S. Dawson left
Tuesday for a visit to relatives In
Portsmouth.
.Mrs. J. A. Johnson ot Covington, Is
tho guest of her daughter, Mrs. W. J
Capllnger of Forest avenue.
I Mattings Direct From
Japan
ENTERTAINED CHOIR.
MIKE BROWN
"THE S QUAKE DEAL MAN"
LOWEST PRICES OF THE YEAR
4 cans good Corn only 25 cents 1 caui best Lye Homluy only. 25 cents
I cans belt PampkJn only. ...25 cents 3 cam good Tomatoes only.. .5 cwU
Thes goods are worth more at wholesals coat. W dp not want to carry
roil. eoyiiD. . . ruu it,
Prof, and Mrs. C. S. Dalo of We&t
Second street, delightfully-entertained!
the choir of tho Third Street M. E.
church Tuesday evening at th'olr home.
An ovenlng of music, games and other
diversions was thoroughly enjoyed by I
all present. Delicious refreshments I
consisting ot Ices and cakes weral
served.
Miss Mary Noll Royse has returned
to her homo at Sprlngdalo aftor spend-1
lng a tow days with Mrs. J, M, Literal,
FOR MEN AND WOMEN.
Trj a tub oc ilioner bath at the I
. - - . 1 . 111. i I ( . a ... I
ew. waiwn rrtuio uia anu Harms r
We arc direct importers of Japanese Mattings. On Feb. 14th, the steamer "Shidznoka Main" sailed from
Kobe, Japan, with Mattings for Merz Bros. We are just in receipt of this shipmeht, which contains 180 Warp
O' Kay am a Mattings, 150 Warp Bingo Mattings, Matting Rugs 9x12, Macrcx Reversible Rugs in room sizes,
Junzoyen Mats round and oval shapes.
After paying the duty, freight, insurance, war risk, we aro able to give you the best Mattings that money can
buy for less money than other stores.
Come in and compare our values. Let us show you new novelties in Japanese Rugs.
-If i
'A
not
-MRU m
re
U MODERN LAUNTIHY CO.
