1
1
i-""
I:
•IJW"-P»HIH »niiiui»mimyj|
VOLUME XXXVII.
RECORD SESSION
BY CITY COUNCIL
MUCH BUSINESS TRANSACTED
IN SESSION LASTING BUT
FEW HOURS.
ROAD TRACTOR IS PURCHASED
AND HEATING PLANT PLANS
APPROVED.
jT More business was crowded into the
short space of two hours at the council
I meeting last Saturday evening than at
any previous meeting when the sessions
were stretched to close to the midnight
hour. In Saturday's session the council
decided to purchase a road tractor and
roller at the price of $2,600, heard the
report of the heating plant expert and
fixed the price of steam to be furnished
the new corporation which will operate
the central heating plant in this city.
The members of the council had at
a previous meeting instructed the com
mittee on streets to make arrangements
for the purchase of the tractor and it
took but a few minutes to definitely dis
pose of the matter by agreeing to the
purchase price and fixing the terms at
$200 down and $200 per month.
Then came the reports of the heating
expert, substantially as published in last
^^week's issue of the Review. Mr. Foster
supplemented his reports with a short
verbal report as to how the city should
proceed in the matter.
The council committee which had been
appointed to confer with the Commercial
Club committee on the heating plant
proposition reported that it had met with
that body and came to an agreement
substantially as follows:
"It was agreed by the two committees,
subject to approval of the council, that
a rate of 50 cents per 100 lbs. condensa
tion should be fixed for heating, subject
a discount of 10 per cent for prompt
payment. The committee" of property
owners urged very strongly the propriety
of establishing a rate of 40c per 100 lbs.
condensation, but finally consented to
the rate agreed upon with the reserva
tion that after the plant is in operation
for a year the rate shall be reduced to 40c
providing the returns justify such re
duction.
"The plan of the committees of pro
perty owners as stated to your com
ymittee is to form a corporation at once.
All of »the property owners within the
heating district shall be stockholders in
this corporation. The money with which
to construct the plant will be furnished
by the corporation. As soon as the cor
poration is organized they will apply to
the city council for a franchise authoriz
ing the corporation to lay their mains in
and along the necessary streets and alleys.
The corporation will then go ahead with
the construction of the plant. For
various reasons of a legal nature it is
necessary that the contract for the con
struction of the plant be made in the
name of the corporation. We are as
sured, however, by the property owners'
committee that the letting of the contra'ct
and any work done in or about the con
struction of the plant will be at all times
subject to the supervision and control of
the city council. In this connection it
has been suggested that a committee
from the city council together with the
superintendent be appointed to act for
Nthe city.
"At the time that the franchise is
granted an agreement should be entered
into between the city and the corporation
providing that the city will furnish the
necessary steam at the price of 50c per
100 lbs., subject to a discount of 10 per
cent for prompt payment, out of which
the following payments shall be made:
1. Interest at the rate of 6 per cent
annually shall be paid to said corporation
on the total cost of the plant including
all expenses necessarily indicental thereto
"2. The expense of the operation of
the plant shall be paid.
"3. A reasonable sum shall be set
/aside each year for depreciation.
"The remainder shall be the net re
turn to the city for the steam so furnished
by it, and this amount shall be paid over
annually to the corporation as a part of
the purchase price of said plant and when
the amount so paid shall aggregate
amount the total cost of said plant then
the corporation shall turn over and de
liver said plant to the city as its absolute
property, and shall surrender the fran
chise so granted said corporation.
"As soon as the heating plant is com
pleted it is intended that its operation
and management shall be turned over
to the city and that it shall be operated
and managed in connection with the
electric light and water works depart-
ricwtt
ment, subject of course to the reasonable
supervision of the corporation."
Upon motion of Councillor Krook the
council approved the recommendations
of the committee and agreed to furnish
steam to the new corporation at the price
stated in the report.
Mr. Foster was instructed to at once
begin with the drawing of plans and
specifications for the heating plant and
submit the same to the city council as
soon as possible.
The city attorney was instructed to
draw up an agreement with the heating
corporation and also to confer with the
attorney for the corporation as to the
franchise to be granted by the city.
The city engineer presented a list of
sidewalks, crosswalks, etc., to be built
this year and the council ordered them
built according to the enginee sug
gestions. The city clerk will advertise
for bids to be opened at the next regular
meeting of the council.
HON. S. D. WORKS.
PROF. HESS HEADS
STATE EDUCATORS
IS. i:i£€TED PRESIDENT OF HIGH
SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS
AND PRINCIPALS.
WIDE RANGE OF TOPICS IS DIS-
CUSSED AT STATE CON
VENTION.
New Ulm was honored at the recent
meeting of the superintendents and high
school principals of the state by Prof.
H. C. Hess of this city being chosen
president of the organization for the
ensuing year. This organization is a
branch of the Minnesota Educational
Association which also held its conven
tion at the University of Minnesota the
latter part of last week.
The other officers of the association
chosen are as follows: J. B. Hagen,
Detroit, vice president G. H. Sanberg,
Crookston, secretary and treasurer.
Among the topics which came up for
discussion by the educators were the
following: Superintendent Herman A.
Johnson of Rochester spoke on "The
Value of Co-operative Measurement
Superintendent J. A. Vandyke of Cole
ranie discussed "An Experiment With
the Ayres Measuring Scale for Spelling
Contests Superintendent E. B. Forney
of Cokato talked on "Standards and
Tests in Small Schools Superintendent
B. O. Greening of Eveleth spoke on
"Tests in Reading," and M. E. Hag.
gerty, professor of educational psycho
logy of the University of Minnesota,
discussed "Educational Measurements."
Each of the speakers used charts
showing tabulated results obtained by
experiments in their several schools.
A matter of interest to those interested
in high school athletics was taken up by
the superintendents and principals at
their meeting at the University, when
the 250 members of the organization
voted to form an athletic association
composed of the 230 accredited high
schools of Minnesota.
If the superintendents' plans are car
ried out, all district, state or sectional
high school contests will be held under
the auspices of the association.
The body will pass on the high schools
to play in the preliminary countests for
meets held at Hamline university,
Carleton, St. Thomas and other colleges,
instead of the college controlling the
entries. The colleges merely will judge
the athletic competition.
Certain rules relative to scholarship
and enrollment were passed upon. No
high school student will be allowed to
enter any athletic competition unless
he is carrying at least four subjects,
and his current grade in all of these
subjects must be 75 or above.
WORKSISINRACE
FOR GOVERNORSHIP
FORMER BLUE EARTH SENATOR
WILL SEEK DEMOCRATIC
NOMINATION.
WIDE ACQUAINTANCE IN STATE
SHOULD BRING SUCCESS TO
PARTY.
Urged by his thousands of friends in
every part of the state, Hon. S. D.
Works -has been prevailed upon to file
for the Democratic nomination for
governor of Minnesota and he will no
doubt receive the nomination of his
party with practically unanimous ac
claim. He will be the candidate to
oppose the present incumbent, the suc
cessor to the late Governor Hammond.
Although there are many prominent
Democrats in Minnesota who would be
suitable not only as candidates of a great
party, but would make splendid execu
tive officials, there is none so peculiarly
fitted for the office as is Mr. Works.
His services in the legislative and execu
tive departments of the state have given
him opportunity to gain an insight into
the needs of the state and its people,
given to but few. Politically, he has
always been a consistent supporter of
Democratic candidates and principles.
During his long residence in Mankato he
gained recognition as a force in his party
which could not be overlooked and in
1906 he was elected to the state senate
from Blue Earth county, proved himself
worthy and qualified for the position,
that caused his re-election four years
years later.
During the period of his service in the
upper house of the state legislature Mr.
Works was one of the most active, useful
and unfluential members of that body
and no member of the senate had more
to do with the shaping of legislation than
he. Although a member of the minority
party his abilities were recognized by
the then presiding officer by appointing
him on the most important committees
of that body, among them on the rail
road and finance committees.
When he entered upon his second term
in the senate he was the recognized
leader of the Democratic wing and the
personal spokesman of the late Governor
Johnson and as such was responsible for
the enactment of nearly all of the
measures advocated by the party and
administration.
His services as a legislator for eight
years brought him into close touch with
all of the affairs of the state government,
and there is no man in public life today
who is more familiar or who takes a
greater interest in the needs and re
quirements of the state and its people.
From the very time when he entered
politics he became a figure that com
manded the respect of the voters. Dur
ing the campaigns of Governors Johnson
and Hammond he not only took an
active part as a speaker in all parts of
the state, but became a power at the
state headquarters of the party. His
advice was sought by the candidates and
the clean open campaigns conducted by
the two successful Democratic candidates
bear witness of his abilities. Although
he could have had almost any position
from the late Governor Johnson for the
asking and could have filled any of them
with as great if not greater ability than
did the appointees, he preferred to re
main in the background until he was
urged by G6v. Hammond to take charge
of the insurance department of the state,
which position required the services of a
level-headed business man and a man of
force and character. As such official he
has served the state with marked ability
and fidelity.
Mr. Works is deeply interested in the
growth and prosperity of the state.
Naturally public spirited, his desire for
the highest development of the common
wealth of which he is a citizen, is re
inforced by the large business interests
he holds within the state. He is a heavy
landholder in Northern Minnesota and
is financially interested in a number of
concerns in different parts of the state.
He has been a useful citizen in his other
public capacities and he will bring to the
governor's chair the respect and ad
miration of the members of every party
or faction.
C. H. Stucke of Springfield, who last
winter adopted the role of inventor to the
extent of perfecting a swinging lamp
adjustable to all makes of automobiles,
has been notified by the patent office at
Washington that he received a patent
on the device April 10th.
NEW ULM,BROWN COUNTY, MINNESOTA, WEDNESDAY, APRIL 26, 1916.
COMPANY FORMED
TO BDILD PLANT
NEW ULM HEATING COMPANY TO
INSTALL HEATING SYSTEM
IN NEW ULM.
BUSINESS MEN SUBSCRIBE STOCK
AND ELECT FIRST SET OF
DIRECTORS.
Friday evening tangible steps were
taken to secure a central heating plant
for the two business blocks on Minnesota
street between Center and Second North
streets, by the formation of a corpora
tion to be known as the "New Ulm
Heating Company." The articles of
incorporation will provide for capital
stock in the sum of $50,000 with the
privilege of doing business as soon as
$20,000 of the stock is subscribed for.
As approximately $15,000 was sub
scribed for at Friday's meeting it was a
foregone conclusion that there would be
no trouble in securing the additional
stock subscriptions to make the project
a go. More than two-thirds of the
property owners interested were present
and the sentiment seemed to be un
animous in favor of the proposition.
According to the preUminary plans
outlined so far a ten-inch main pipe will
be laid |rom the waterworks station up
First North street to Minnesota street.
From there smaller main pipes will be
laid thru the front basements of the
various property owners.
It was not only for the purpose of
getting the property owners to subscribe
for stock, but also to sign an agreement
which permits of the laying of the mains
in their respective basements and the
right to enter said premises at all reason
able hours, for the purpose of installing
the heating plant in the first place,
making necessary repairs and for any
other necessary purpose that the meeting
was called.
The committee which had this matter
in hand and which had visited several
cities having central heating plants, told
the property owners that in their judg
ment the only system to install would be
a vacuum system and not a gravity
system plant. In the course of the dis
cussion it developed that in the gravity
system, the condensed steam is not re
turned to the plant but is drained off
from the pipes direct, whereas in the
vacuum system, the condensate is
returned io the station to be there used
again for the creation of steam.
Charles Foster of the Pillsbury Co. of
Minneapdlis, consulting engineer, who
was present, stated it as his opinion that
the vacuum system had come to be re
garded as! the only economical system,
altho the Installation expenses would be
fully 25 plr cent greater than a gravity
system, jjiupt. Mueller of the local
electric light and water works station
agreed with him and told those present
that the pity was forced now to spend
about a $1.00 a day for boiler compound,
a portion! of which expense would be
eliminated by the use of the water re
turned frbm the mains. Besides this
saving there would be a saving in the
pumping .expense, as the number of
gallons of water to be pumped annually
for steam purpose alone would be ma
terially reduced.
For about half an hour Mr. Foster was
plied with questions which he answered
to the satisfaction of the questioners.
His answers, if anything, confirmed the
property owners in their opinion that a
central heating plant using the exhaust
steam from the city plant would be a
gocd investment and would pay for itself
in the space of a short number of years.
The consulting engineer made it plain
that the matter could not be delayed at
all, because it would take fully 3 months
to install the plant after the contracts
have been let. It will take several
weeks to prepare the plans and specifica
tions and sufficient notice would have
to be given to the contractors, so that the
contract could hardly be let before June
1st.
For the fh st board of directors of the
New Ulm Heating Company Ferdinand
Crone, Alf. J. Vogel, Henry N. Somsen,
G. A. Ottomeyer and F. W. Johnson
were chosen. They organized immediate
ly by electing Alf. J. Vogel, President G.
A. Ottomeyer, Vice Pres. and F. W.
Johnson, Secy, and Treasurer.
Congressman C. R. Davies of St. Peter
announces that he will seek renomination
and election. It had been rumored that
he might enter the senatorial race, but
this has been denied by him with the
statement that, he would again run for
congress.
mrn'mumifivM
,%-H
SURPRISES ARE TO BE SPRUNG
AT BANQUET.
Several surprises are to be sprung by
the committee on arrangements for the
Commercial Club banquet to be held this
evening at Turner Hall. Just in what
form the surprises are to be handed out
to the banqueters the committee also is
keeping under cover. It is suspected,
however, that several speakers have been
imported from neighboring towns for the
occasion and that several local orators
will be called upon.
Tickets for the affair have been going
like hot cakes during the past few days
and it is expected that every seat at the
banquet table will, be occupied when
"time" is called by the master ol cere
monies. The attendance will probably
be close to 200.
PROF. HERMAN HEIN
TURNERSPREPARE
FORANNUAL EVENT
ATHLETIC EXHIBITION SHOWS
RESULT OF SYSTEMATIC
GYM WORK.
OVER 250 PUPILS WILL TAKE
PART IN EXERCISES AT
TURNER HALL
Preparations have been under way
for the past several weeks for the annual
gymnastic exhibition to be given under
the auspices of the New Ulm Turnverein,
Saturday evening, April 29th. The
director of athletics, Prof. Herman Hein
has labored faithfully to make this year's
exhibition the greatest ever given in the
city and that he will succeed in this is
predicted.
The training of the various classes has
been a laborious task, as it is not only the
overseeing and training of the classes in
itself that takes time and judgment, but
the working out of the different numbers
is a task in itself little appreciated by the
layman. This year 260 pupils, ranging
in age from 6 years upward, will partici
pate in the exercises and even this
number could be augmented if the busi
ness men's class were included in the
program. As wjll be seen by the follow
ing program some of the classes are so
large that they will have to drill in two
sections because of the stage limitations.
Other classes will be large enough to tax
the capacity of the stage.
In connection with the exhibition the
Junior Society will celebrate the golden
anniversary of its founding and appro
priate reference to this fact will no doubt
be made by the speaker of the evening*
Capt. Steinhauser.
The exercises will begin promptly at
8 o'clock and will last about 2 1-2 hours.
At the conclusion of the exercises a
social hop will take place.
PROGRAM
Grand Review All Classes
Overture Orchestra
Address Capt. Steinhauser
Antagonistics 1st Boys Class
Calisthenics 1st Boys and Girls Class
Folk Dance 1st Boys and Girls Class
Maypole Dance 1st Girls Class
Calisthenics 2nd Boys Class
Exercise on 2 Horses 2nd Boys Class
Obstacle Relay Race 2nd Boys Class
Wand and Dumbbell Ex. .2nd Girls Class
Esthetic Polka 1st Ladies Class (2 Di
visions)
Wand Exercises (complicated)
Zoegling Class
Esthetic Waltz 1st Ladies Class
Horizontal Bars and Horse
1st and 2nd Squad Zoeglinge
Parallel Bars.. Men
Pyramids on Ladders and Parallel Bars
Zoeglinge
NUMBER 17
6DARD COMPANIES
IN BAD CONDITION
LOW STANDING OF MACHINE
GUN CO. CAUSES CHANGE IN
OFFICERS.
INFANTRY COMPANY ALSO IS
BELOW STANDARD SET IN
FORMER YEARS.
Both of the local military organizations
seem to be in a bad way at the present
time because of the inability of the com
pany commanders to devote more of
their time to the service. While the
infantry company still retains a fair
standing with the balance of the regiment,
even this organization does not come up
to the efficiency of former years. Guard
officers admit that Company "A" is well
officered, but that Capt. Groebner can
not afford to devote the time necessary
for proper supervision. Unless he can
make arrangements with the railway
mail service, where he is employed, to
accommodate his run so that he is in the
city oftener, it is possible that he will
tender his resignation as captain. A
vacancy already exists in the lieutenancy,
Lieut. Amann having resigned some time
ago.
The Machine Gun company, organized
about four years ago, is in bad shape,
also because of the inability of Capt.
Juni to attend to his duties as company
commander. The affairs of this organi
zation were brought to a head recently
when Col. Buschers received a communi
cation from the adjutant general stating
that the company had fallen below the
average grade to such an extent that the
organization would not receive inspection
money. An effort was made to have a
re-inspection of the company, but the
federal inspections closed on March 31
and this could not be done.
The communication from the adjutant
general to Col. Buschers read as follows:
"A special inspection cannot be given the
Machine Gun company of the Second
Infantry, M. N. G., as the war depart
ment inspections closed on March 31,
and this organization was declared in
such a state of inefficiency that we will
not be able to draw any money on it from
the government allotment."
Following this communication the
colonel issued the following special order
under date of April 19:
1. Captain Ed. Juni of the Machine
Gun Company of this command is here
by relieved as captain of said company,
for the good of its cause, until further
orders.
2. Lt. W. H. Bierbaum will take
temporary command of the Machine Gun
Company.
Upon receipt of the above order Capt.
Juni tendered his resignation to Col.
Buschers, stating that his private busi
ness tobk up his time in such a manner
that he was unable to devote more at
tention to the affairs of the company.
This resignation has thus far not been
accepted and it is possible that Capt.
Juni will be retained in the service in
some other capacity as he is considered
to bexme-of the best posted men in the
state guard.
Lieut. Bierbaum has taken charge of
the affairs of the Machine Gun company
and will attempt to bring the organiza
tion up to a state of efficiency to prevent
its being mustered out before camp orders
are issued. At a recent meeting of the
company the men assured the colonel
that they were willing to attend the drills
and in every way co-operate with the
officers to make the company as efficient
as any in the state.
The recent meeting \\as ordered held
by the colonel and every member not
present was required to give a reasonable
excuse. It is said two members of the
company will have to face a court martial
as a result, both being absent without
leave.
ChasJ Stuebe, Sr., returned from an
extensive trip to Northern Minnesota
and parts of Canada last Wednesday,
looking after the cattle and land business.
Mr. Stuebe found the business conditions
of Canada in a bad way, in fact there is
but little business transacted. The war
spirit seems to have taken hold of the
people to the exclusion of everything
else. Although Mr. Stuebe did not ex
perience any difficulties either with the
officials or with the population he says
that Germans in Canada have to suffer
on account of the war and those who have
been able to have left the country.
Every German farm hand in the vicinity
of a town is spotted and is ridiculed and
chided when he enters a store for pur
chases. The French-Canadians seem
to be the worst offenders in this respect.
r.,
4
4
