THE BARRE DAILY TIME
VOL. XX NO. 36.
DARIUS, VERMONT, WEDNESDAY, APitlL 26, 1910.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
r
I
SENSATIONAL
AIRCRAFTDUEL
WONBYFRENCH
An Aeroplane Said to Have
Crippled a Zeppelin by
Firing Incendiary Bombs
at a High Altitude Over
the Sea Near Zeebrugge
on Belgian Coast
SEVERAL ZEPPELINS
VISITED ENGLAND
Fein party, mostly armed, occupied
Stephens' Green ami took possession
forcibly of tlie postulllce, where they cut
tiio telegraph and telephone wirea.
Housoa also were occupied in Stephens
Green, Suckville street, Abbey street,
ami alongthe quays.
"In the course of the day soldiers ar
rived from the Currish and the situation
is now well iu hand. So far as ia known
here, three military officers, four or Bva
soldiers, two Loyal Volunteer, and two
policemen have been killed, and four or
live military officers and seven or eight
aoldiera and aix voluuteera wounded. No
exact information has been received of
the casualties on the Sinn Feiners.
"Reports received from Cork, Limerick
A tin is, iralee and both. Killings of Tip
perary show that no disturbances of an
kind occurred in these localities."
RESUME
PURSUIT
American Troops Are Whip
ping the Mountains
Near Parral
OPPOSITION DEVELOPS.
Austrians Claim to Have Re
captured Part of Col Di
Lana, Which Was Recent
ly Captured by the Italians
Sir Roger Casement Has
Been Taken to London
There has been a halt in heavy infan
try fighting in the vicinity of Dead Man's
hill, but the Germans are vigorously em
ploying their artillery in the region west
of the Meuse, foreshadowing an early re
sumption of the battle by the infantry
arm.
Paris also reports a sensational engage
ment two miles above the sea, off the
Belgian coast, before daylight to-day be
tween a French aeroplane and a Zeppe
lin. The aeroplane is believed to have
damaged the German aircraft, at which
nine incendiary shells were fired.
General military compulsion is fore
shadowed in Great Britain unless the un
attested married men come forward in
sufficient lumbers to satisfy the military
needs. A secret session of Parliament
developed this situation yesterday, Pre
mier Asquith stating that the govern
ment would ask Parliament for compul
sory power unless by May 27 men to the
number of 50,000 had attested or if there
after 15,000, were not secured each week
by direct enlistment until the total had
reached 200,000.
..... S't , Roger CasemcnVIcaderef - tba
separatist faction in Ireland, who was
captured on the Irish" coast while mak
ing an attempt to land arms, may be
tried for high treason. The fact that he
has been taken to London to stand trial
leads to this assumption in the British
capital.
After conferring with James W. Ger
ard, the American ambassador at Berlin,
Chancellor Von Bethmann-Hollweg, with
Admiral Von Hoozendroff, chief of naval
staff, has left for the German headquar
ters to consult Emperor William on the
reply to the American note.
Part of Col di Lana on the Austro
Italian front, recently taken by the Ital
ians, has been reoccupied by the A us
trians, Vienna says.
To Another Trial of Voluntary Enlist
ment System. ,
London, April 28. The government
scheme to give voluntary enlistment ays
torn another trial, as explained in the
Hecret session of Parliament yesterday,
hag not met with approval. Sir Ldwarcl
Carson again haa given notice of hla
intention to move a resolution demand
ing equal sacrifices from all men of mill
tary age.
LEAVING GERMANY,
AMERICANS HAVE
DIFFICULTIES
Many of Them Are Finding Trouble In
Getting Into Switzerland Because
the Baden Frontier Has Been
Closed Since Monday.
Geneva, Switzerland, April 25, 1
Plans, April 26. The German newspapers
are now taking a more serious view of
the German-American situation. They
say that Emperor William is expected
to return to Berlin from general head
quarters. In the meantime Americans
attempting to leave Germany via Switz
erland are encountering difficulties. Many
of thom have been held up at Constance,
the Iladen frontier having been closed
since yesterday.
LANSING URGES CAUTION
Concerning Publication of Unfounded Re
ports from Berlin.
Washington, D. C, April 2(5. Secretary
Lansing in a conference yesterday with
newspaper correspondents, deprecated
the publication of reports that official
dispatches to the state department from
Ambassador Gerard indicated that Ger
many might make concessions to the
United States in reply to the note de
manding the immediate abandonment of
present methods of conducting subma
rine warfare. He said official dispatches
to the department from Berlin contained
only quotations of newspaper opinions,
similar in many cases to the editorial
excerpts cabled to this country in press
dispatches.
It is felt here that stories indicating
thanV (f ermmrj "might lnakcccrtain con
cessions land that the German govern
ment was willing to go to great length
to preserve the-friendly relations with
the United States might find their way
back to Germany in distorted form, anil
have such an effect upon the German
people as to make more difficult the an
nouncement of anv policy involving addi
tional restrictions upon the use of submarines.
The internal political situation in Ger
many always lias been extremely deli
cate when questions involving submarine
policy were under consideration.
WHERE VILLA IS
REPORTED HIDING
Col. Dodd's Detachment Has
Been in Another Engagement
Field headquarters, Xamiquipa, Chi
huahua, April 2.), via wireless to Colum
bus, N. M., April 20. Several detach
ments of American, troops have resumed
active pursuit of Villa and are whipping
the mountains north and west of 1'arrai,
where the bandit chief is reported to be
hiding.
El Paso, Tex., April 26. Reports re
ceived here said that Colonel Itodd's ad
vanced cavalry detachment had an en
gagement several days ago, in which
both sides suffered losses. It is not indi
cated whether the battle wag with Villa
bandits or with Carranza troops.
Information regarding the tattle came
n a private dispatch but it gave no in
formation where the battle took place.
Ihe conference between Major-General
Scott and General Ohregon is expected
to take place the latter part of next
week. -
fan Antonio, Tex., April 20. General
Scott and General 1'iinston have ar
ranged to leave for El Paso to-night to
meet General Obregon.
CABOT WOMAN
TOLD OF SECRET
MEETINGS
FAILED TO HEED
THE WARNINGS
Cassius' Pratt, Prominent
Milton Man, Killed by '
a Train
Efforts to Tell Him
of Danger
NO LICENSE PLATE SHOWN.
Barre Autoist Waa Fined in City Court
for Lack.
Joseph E. Marehctti appeared in city
court this morning as the first allegeu
violator or the automobile law to oe ar
rested in IHlrt. Marehctti was arrested
by Chief Sinclair yesterday on a com
plaint made- to Grand Juror William
YViahart. charging him with operating a
car without a number plate (attached
thereto. The respondent, pleading guilty
to the charge, is said to have stated that ?Imfr Wfl5fS rvtir n CSifTavf nrr '
the number plate was on the front seat -""cr VVasnDUm, toUuering
of the car. Magistrate 11. W. "scow - f rf,,.c,V 4-1
nosed a fine of 83 and costs. " vuuv,uo;muii ui l .
WAS BATTERED
ABOUT HEAD
AND MAY DIE
!...
Brain and a Broken
Was Found in Bet ar
ly This Morning ad Foul
Play Is Suspt.d
HEADQUARTERS IN N0RTHFIELD.
CLOSED FOR 20 DAYS.
Paris, April 26. A French aeroplane
Ipnd a Zeppelin fought a duel at an alti
iude of 4,(K)0 metres off Zeebrugge to
day. The Zeppelin appeared to have
been damaged from incendiary shells.
l.ondon, April 2(5. Hoatilo airships
raided the counties of Essex and Kent
Tuesday night, according to an official
statement.
"The number of raiders is uncertain."
the communication adds, "hut they did
tot exceed four. The raidprs were ;nnt
by a brisk anti-air craft gun fire and
retreated after achieving little or noth
ing."
AVOCOURT WOOD
AND HILL NO. 304
BOMBARDED
French Positions Were Subjected to Ger
man Attack and There Was Also a
Big Gun Bombardment in
Woevre District.
Paris. April 2(5. The French positions
on tho Verdun front, west of the Meuse,
were bombarded by the Germans lust
night. The attack centered on the Avo
court wood and the first line trenches of
Hill No. '.iH. In (he W oevre there was a
big gun bombardment.
MARTIAL LAW
IS PROCLAIMED
IN DUBLIN COUNTY
Military Forces Have Occupied Liberty
Hall, the Headquarters of Rebels,
and Also Stepson Hall, Which
Was Seized by Them.
German-Swiss Frontier Even Impassable
to the Mails.
Taris, April 2(5. The German-Swiss
frontier has been closed since Monday
afternoon, even to the mails, says a dis
patch to Matin from Heme. Foreigners
now in Germany have been informed that
none will be allowed to leave the coun
try for twenty days.
Inspector-Instructor of Vermont National
Guard to Transfer.
Burlington, April 2(5. First Lieutenant
. C. Waterman, L. s. A., inspector-in
structor of tho Vermont National Guard,
ill move his headquarter from Burling-
on about the first of next month, in or
der that he may bo located near the
colonel of the regiment, President Ira L.
Reeves of Norwich university. Sergeant
Instructor Charles Steele, 17. S. A., who
has been at the Burlington headquar
ters for some time, will also go to North
Held. '
The summer plans for the Vermont
Nat ional Guard include an o dicers' school.
hich will be conducted at Northfiald
from duly 1 to 10 bv Lieutenant Water
man, and, instead of the usual camp on
the state reservation near Fort F.than
Allen, a practice march' of the entire"
regiment from Bethel to White River
Junction and elaborate manoeuvres at
the state fair in September. Major G. K.
Carpenter of N'orthfleld has been ap
pointed captain and Captain W'.
Springer of Northfield, coach of the stau'
rifle team, which will participate in the
national rille tournament next fall. The
team will be picked by a series of elim
ination shoots during the summer and
fall, the final selection being postponed
until just before the tournament.
Mrs. Charlotte Fhelpa.Waa the Principal
Witness in $10,000 Alienation Case
Brought By Frank C Phelps
Against Charles Utley.
Cross examination of Mrs. Charlotte
Phelps, the wife of the plaintiff, and the
principal witness in the $10,000 aliena
tion suit brought by Frank C. Phelps
airainst Charles I'tlev. a Cabot lumber
manufacturer, was finished by Attorney STEPPED BEFORE CARS
R, E. Brown at 10 o'clock this forenoon QXT A PROSTNfx
in vvasningTon county court, ine elimi
nation having commenced late .yesterday
afternoon. Two other unimportant wit
nesses preceded iurs. rnrips on me siami mi. - m ir i n a
yesterday afternoon and then for nearly A lie irailllTien MRQe r ranUC
three houra the woman told, on direct!
examination, of her relations with the
defendant, relations which commenced
back in 1012 and continued until last No
vember, when the suit was brought, and1
she testified she admitted to her husband I
the affairs which hnd been secret he-1
tween herself and Utley. Milton, April 2(5. Failing to heed the
The witness told of having accepted an warning of several persons, Cassius A.
nvitation one evening back in 1012, ex- n,,tt. nlr-j fl7 VMr. ,,, . i :,
tended by the defendant, to take a ride ....
in hia automobile.. Thev were eone from Prom,nnt resident of i town, was
Cabot village over two hours and his ad- struck ana instantly Killed by a ten
vanee on that occasion were not favor- tral ermont freight train which was
ably received. Ihi,tinr .-. i t.n i,w.i t;wa .-,f
Mrs. Thelps told of other meetings L, . f,u ,: T. t..
which occurred in the summer of 1914 ,, . ,,.; i ,; Entertained Monrnelier Ladies at How-
. i , i . . i . i i i -" 1 1 " i -
Vo , "T V i -fi I J A south-bound freight train was pass- land Hall.
1015. when she met Ltlev in the woods : . ,v...
near the village. During thia intimacy, i 7 " Tl . f n. .nV Members of the Barre Woman's club
the witness testified. Utley repeatedly ffP"' " " e-'v"6 8t?ITed played the part of hostesses yesterday
told her that Mr. Phelps wa.'endeavoring f"nt f "T ye being ift;rnoon tol their Mts, the Woman's
to get rid of her and that her husband Iu. 7 " """ club of Montpclier. About 125 women
was Iravinjr immoral relations with other . .. . : e ,were j)rcgent, 7 he hall presented a
omen. Witness testified that she be- . .. v r. " -.... ....,...., pnng-like aspect by means of plants
lieved what Utler told her. . W,..-I "'B'"' Bnd flowers. White hyacinths, pink tu-
The witness aNo testified that Utlev -""cir unman ami engineer iwni- jipR gnd Eagter iieg were uged effective- Bethel, April 26. With his jawbroken
had tried to get her to take trips with , ly. Yellow jonquils and ferns decorated and (mfferimr from concussion nf th
him to St. John.burv and other places. L -,'":li,,Da1"- ,raw ; Jt roiurneii ti,. serving table, where Mrs. George , . F,"XVlt ,.,. .... ,
si.. h.A r.. f to Milton from Crescent City, Fla., where rwi .n u IV S . Wn.(ermn nresided. braln' Elmer Washburn, a middle-aged
Mrs. Phelos said that her husband had thlT ha1 len spending the winter, and The whole affair was in chare of Mrs. nian an(l lifelong resident of this.
been jealous since 1912 but that on the the.v pre Retting their houso in this Robert Q. McDonnell, Mrs. E. T. Mqwer town, was found unconscious early this
advice of Utley she had denied any rela- "1 .g. m readiness occupancy UR . ..... orning near the Central Vermont rail-
lions un Liiey nna ciurn 10 nr siorv. " i me ynfmm iku wjui pinmr . , ,
VII ITtiM fJlHllimtlun 1U Hint Jl IT w. .Jfs . ,, tuo. rmvii j mum u nun Juno .Tiii.ii , 1
was several days after she came to Mont- M. Mann, in New ort City.
Under the juvenile act Lloyd Edson
aoed 13, who resided until recently on
Foster street, was brought into court to
answer to a charge of breaking windows
and committing other depredations, rea
son's story involved other lads and Judge
Scott continued the case until 2 o'clock
this afternoon, when other alleged offen
ders were expected to aptiear. II. O.
Camp, a real estate agent, testified as to
damatre done in a certain house on Fos
ter street. The lad's father, who told jr A TP A 1T Til? A DUk WT7T) TT
the court that ho was totally blind, in- - r iuliu
terceded in his son's behalf. lt A TTTTTI IXTTTTJ T5T A rT
.losenh A Rn.nplle of Afontnelier. list- """"J" 1I11U UUWU
ed in the Barre court records as an habit
ual drunkard, pleaded euilty to being in
toxicated and was sentenced to pay a $15
fine and costs and to serve 30 days in State's Attorney, B. E. Cole
the county tail. Brunelle was arrested k,
on North Main street last night by Offi
cer David Henderson.
BARRE LADIES HOSTESSES.
of Windsor Has Taken
Charge of the Case
Washburn Was a Farm
Hand Employed on Hara
den Place, Three Miles
from the Village
9 in this village, lie is not
Be- Phelps, followed bv three croups of songs expected to live, and the authorities
pelier with her husband and papers were sides his wife, and the daughter men- by T. J. Waterman, a reading from are working on the theory that he met
mane oui ror no sun inai sne ioiu neril""lcu i umn uiukkki i)riiiiuir uv hum muwu hi me uvuimiu (h x , t.i j! ,l ii,(
I11.F m(i..M with I -Hp. Mrs. Porter Pleroont of Savannah. Ga. Edwin Rrm. All the nerformers were 1De PIace where Washburn was found
Mr. and Mrs. Phelos have three sirmlllFor many years Mr. Pratt conducted a received with enthusiasm, especially Mr.lwas near the lumber yard. It is sup
children and are still residing in Cabot, general store in this village but retired Waterman, who proved himself to be a postd that he had lain there during the
Mr. Utley is married and carries on a some years ago. He had held practi- true vocal artist. Mr. Waterman at ...(. art lf (h. ht .
i,,..,u. i..,.;.... i.. u. ..:n.. it. j. .n .11 u : u ;f f .u ,.., r,n.,t,t ira in . on.irh in K.irlincrton. U JrK ' me nigat, as ne was seen
said to be fairly wealthy and purchased Mr. Pratt was well known to the sum" but spends a day or two every week in in ani about the village last evening
several years ago a sawmill from the mnr campers at Camp Rich, where he had giving lessons in Barre and Montpclier. Constable Fred Putnam, who was called,
plaintiff. Utley was not in court yester- a cottaae. Perhaps his most plunging selections were ordered Washburn carried tu the oll'ire
day but occupied a seat to-day with his "Motner o- .uine. -.oinewnere a voice , r. . u.,
attorneys. Is Calling and "Morning." He was ac- ; . . "
1 1 m 1 1 1 ' 1 t t a mi . -
The jury hearing the evidence follows: UHiJLIU V O T AL1L1O iUAi companies by .Mrs. h. J. liatcticlder,
iWjjar'r nlt",1 to . 1'. "AU propose IMORE LIGHT
John
Howe
F' IT' eeler C'"y H- Thom-i J. Bagley Elected Warden at the
and B. E. Sanders. I J 1
Annual Convention, Which Was
.. . ..
JTJDGEJSTAifVN LEFT BENCH. Hw ,n Burimgton.
Tliomas J. Bsg-
Burlington, April 2fl.-
ley of Bellows Falls was elected warden
Petitionee in Divorce Case Was School
worker in Koxbury wth Him. 0f the grand lodge of Vermont, Xew Eng-
Burlington, April 26. Because he had land Urlor ot i'rotection, at the annual
V7W11H
superintendent in Roxbury convention held here yesterday. C
titionee in the divorce nit hfficeC8 ,.ht"'nr as. .Yipe."
war-Jo' the opprobrious adjective that has
been school su
... 1 a l. . a:.
ofTran'k FlZ GK "VJ I A. Bullock of Northfield; junior to grow on it like , . hand.e to a
was a aihool teacher ,Tudi?e Zed Stanton Pst ard''n. Henry D. Fillmore of Ben- frura ir ine aiaermaiuc iijnugi.Uu
JXl?I , ;t!lf,T; Jrigl,,i"i" mngton; cUr, E. W. Crannell of tee, acting under in.tnictions from the
in Chittenden countv court in favor of
an examination
was held. Ihe mans hair and beard
were matted with blood.
The injuries were so serious that little
hope of recovery wag held out, and it
was said he might live but a short time.
State's Attorney B. E. Cole of Windsor
waa notified, and several clues are be
ing followed.
Washburn was employed as a farm'
hand at the place of Piiilo Un radon on
the road leading from this village to
. Pdndnlnli an,l l.,r.,tw4 ,Kaii1 lh,u nllU,
Darkest Depot square is to be relieved '
FOR DEPOT SQUARE
Matter Was Considered by the Board of
Aldermen Last Evening Sinking
Fund Also Became Subject
for Conversation.
BECOMING CITIZENS.
STRIKE AT BELLOWS FALLS.
MAY DENY NO LONGER.
That a German Submarine Torpedoed the
Steamer Sussex.
Berne, Switzerland, April 2(i. The
Bund which has exceptional sources nf
information in regard to German aifairs
iiays it is probable the German govern
ment will not maintain any longer that
the steamship Sussex was not torpedoed
by a German submarine.
ROOSEVELT TICKET
WAS DEFEATED
IN BAY STATE
Ionduii. April 2ti. Libert y bail, 1 he ; f UM-d
h ad jiiaitis if the Dublin rebel, and I national convention will nominate Knie
Delegation to Republican State Conven
tion Will Be Unpledged as the Re
sult of the Presidential
Primary.
Boston, April 2(5 Thirty-two of the
3(1 Mafsachusettfl Republican delegates
to the Chicago convention, including Me-
Call. Lodge, Weeks and Crane, are itn-
pledged. McCall led the unpledged ticket
with 02,775. Cunhing led the Roosevelt
ticket with 4rt.2.".".
W hen the results rwxame apparent last
night Governor McCall said: "I am nat
urally gratified that the unpledged dcln-
gate were elerted. The camiaign ha'
eeii conducted without rancor, and 1
feel sure that it will have no ill effects
upon (be party."
I bancs Sumner Bird said: "I have
tiling to say to-night.
Grafton I'. Curbing oaid: "We have
apparently liecn defeated. The vote was
lght. Whether the people are not feel
ing hemic, or whether th isnue was eon
do not know. I hope that the
About 30 Men and Girls Want 9-Hour
Work Day.
Bellows Falls. April 26. A walk-out
took place yesterday at the box shoa
of the Uogert & Hopper company. About
30 men and girls demanded nine hourr.'
work each day with 10 hours' pay. the
demands were refused. W . G. Moody
local manager for the company, said
that the company would give the help
Saturday afternoon off during theum-
mcr months, making a 04 instead of a
58-hour week, and said those who had
walked out had been informed that this
would be done.
It is said that some of the help went
to tho plant of the Vermont rami Ma
chine company following the walk-out
and when they asked for employment
were informed that there were no open
ings available. The latter company is
manufacturing shells for the allies and
organizes for the machinists' union have
been here for the past two months try
ing to organize the plant. It is said
they have met with indifferent success.
Judge Leighton P. Slack yesterday aft
ernoon, basing his act on a desire to
give both parties ' the utmost fairness
and not on any legal disqualification.
The suit was brought on the ground
of insanity. The case had once previous
ly been interrupted when a motion for
Burlington; treasurer, F. G. Howland of bo-" of aldermen, sees fit to recommend Applicant, Presented Themselves Before
Uarre; chaplain. Mrs. Alary J. Itoberts or '"lprovrineni, u. p s putt in Barre
Snrimrfield: miide. W. E.'c.reen of Ben- dents of that much frequented little es- . ' , 1
ninirto,,- crunr.Iinn Mia Amm xi fYinUn planadc. When W. H. Messer, represent- Xaturaliattion court, convening in the
of Rutland; sentinel, lon Mixer of i"g abutting land owners' on Richardson council chamber at city hall this" morning
Brattleboro; trustees, T. W. Green, T. B. street, appeared Itetore the aldermen ai at 9:30 o clock, adjourned an hour later
Kllia of Morrisville and B. J. Stewart of I their regular session last night with a re- to the city court room, after the morning
Montpelier- chairman of finance eom-q'est for more light, the petition w-as session of municipal court came to an
RECLAIMED BODY HIS BROTHER'S.
Mep.n Green, which captured by
them, have Imoii occupied by the ml'.i
1ry. Premier .'.( uiih nnomi.-ed in the
1Ioiim of Comr-i"ii to-iiav. Martial law
h been pt.K'bmieii in u,e rity and the
-oiinty nf Iiubl-n. Tmopa buve arrivel
fr- m Peli-t. M'pa to tret a!l tho.!
t-nrn-ertii-d in t1 novemert are tin?
jtuk-, Pr'm.er ApiitH sa'd.
An -T.c-a! Mate rjent i'!t-i lt nisrht
Tr 's a I -'.)- w :
Ixndon. April 2r: An 5 Hl mmmu-rif-ti'n
iwiLirti''' tv Iroi.Me in Ijh-3-r,
In'at;.!. iu.l .t eien;r,. It
"At r r-t.i 'ji w f . -t !!
. l-T' Ve ei t ov !:,.' n. !..
tarty cf irrn ii.!'f 1 w.tli t'.-c S.oa
velt and jrive the country an eiiicieiit
and forcibV adnunii-tratior, an! I re
gret that I fhall tit-t I there to b Iji
on tie triotic movement."
Congressman (.arilner gave out th
tteinent: "It i a pity f?wit the ote
was so light. M'!l. if it had boen beavv.
the UTip)w)g.l i. Irfitri won 1 1 have t-.n
elected jimt tSe Mie. Tliey are all di-ting-iiSil
men. while t K'xwirit dl
cat are mirh well known. If.
however, fHe ball-t la I aff'rdl the
Toter an oppoet'inity to ote d rf-)r
for tii pr"i.:ntial er-!.' Ut wV.m tlm
i 'crrr l. I am e- nv;? ! t? t K,.e
tt-it would bave V t f t tm tfrr!
wr.'t ,liT, r'1"'! " J tl H f W, tv
JJ...I V"t'f."
Winooski . Fisherman Made a Startling
Discovery Victim Two Years Old.
Winooski, April 20. While fishing in
the Winooski river yesterday afternoon,
loseph Parrott saw a child's liody Moat
ing and he called to Clarence Kirby who
was fishing from a boat nearby. The
Intter made his way to Parrott and was
horrified to discover the body was that
of his own brother, Ralph Kenneth Kir
by, Sfrel two years. The lx.dy was taken
to the home of the child's parent,, Mr.
and Mrs. .John Kirby, and efforts wero
made to resuscitate him. but in vain.
The boy had junt wandered away from
home, and Mrs. Kirby had been out look
ing for him when the body wns brought
in. When the child fell into the river he
evidently struck some rocks.
There are six other children in the
family, five boys and one girl.
mix., m k Vm,nr nt u"f ikniu. referred to the lighting committee ana
continuance was made on the ground chairman of committee on laws, C. T. S. then the talk drifted to benighted condi
that the petitioner had not shown the jjerce 0f Vergennes; chairman of com- tiona in other parts of the city. For ob
final disposition of an annulment suit ,;. V ; nrnhm of vioiw reasons, Depot square was held up
instituted in the court of Nebraska. n,.rijni.,n. -hoirnmn of mmmiliw on as a paradoxically shining example of a
Judge Stanton finally decided to hear credentials, Mrs. Olive A. Brown of St. field where much may be achieved in the
400 CATTLE BURNED.
Brighton Stock Yard Beef Building Wag
Destroyed.
Huston. April 2i. The !f building
at fi" l.ngMon stock yards contain
ing 4"0 head of rattle was burned lat
nic'it at an etimated ! of over ?V1.-
i. The tiohce have in.!i.st.-l that the
fire was of incendiary origin, and two
men who were wen to drive away ahort
ly before the alarm waa givr-n were
ought.
The stork yard ara ow-nd by the
pwton and A!hny railmud en I are
t-l to the New- Kngiand Ih-eM-d ll t'
to.
the testimony of the witnesses in the
case and reserve decision pending the
filing of a certified copy of the court rec
ord showing the disposition of the Ne
braskan suit. The case had hardly more
than been resumed when Judge Stanton
discovered that Mr. Davis was a former
school teacher in Roxbury when he was
superintendent.
llenrv Hedard and Henry L. Muir, two
young men who pleaded guilty a short
time ago to information filed again,
them by State's Attorney Theodore j'.
Hopkins, charging them with stealing
copper wire from the tracks of the Bur
lington Traction company on the Wi
nooski road, were sentenced to serve not
les than two nor more than three years
at the house of correction in Rutland.
Upon recommendation of Mr. Hopkins,
the court suspended the sentence and
placed Bi'dard and Muir in charge of the
probation officer, A. L. Sherman. Judge
Stanton -gave the young men Fome ex
cellent advice regarding their proper con
duct in the future and the seriousness
of their offense.
F. W. Perry of Burlington was ap
pointed receiver of the Richmond Light
and Power company, in the foreclosure
suit of the Burlington Saving bank
against that organization, and his hon I
was fixed at SiiUWl. The divorce cases
of K. Belle Thihen't Hays vs. Thomas
K. Hays and of Ethel W. Carpenter v.
K-dward Carpenter, were heard and taken
under consideration bv the court.
Tohnsbury. The officers were installed ay of Introducing artificial viigm, ana
bv Supreme Warden Arthur M. Willis, the discussion culminated in the action
assisted by J. P. Sanborn of Newport, already mentioned.
R. I., as grand guardian. Something of the camaraderie that has
The reports of the officers showed that cieveiopea among ine cuy miner m inn.
there are 27 lodges in this state with a t infrequent conferences over the sink-
total membership of 2.138. Ihiring the mg fund would have necn missing ii inai
pat year there hare been 24 deaths, "inch discussed topic had been ignored
with a total of ft.VIKIO Viaid in insurance, last night. !0 It happened that after
The grand lodge of Vermont was formed -Mayor Gordon was called to preside over
27 rears ago and since that time there a council meeting, ine quesnon oi uepo
hasbeen a total amount of ffl8.ft0n paid 'ting the big money was broached again,
into this state. The order now has $2,- No action was taken, but to quote a
590,000 of insurance in effect. phraae that often recurs in the more
bromidic of huropean dispatches just
GRAIN HOUSE IN TROUBLE.
TWO SUSPECTS CAUGHT.
Sheriff Mann of Brattleboro Arrested
the Pair.
Brattleboro, April 20. Sheriff C. F.
Mann brought in lant night Frank Gue-
gi nis and Nicholas Shiugla who were
wanted in connection with the stabbing
affray yeterday morning when .Albert
G. Vernott, 22, received a terrible wound
in the abdomen.
Sheriff Mann caught the t o men four
miles from Brattlehoro on a Roton A
Main train in Hinsdale. X. H. They ad
mitted the assault, claiming that Vernott
had len hectoring Guegonis and that
Vernott had ehal engej Guegntm Mon
day night to f ght.
Shing'a claimed tht he did not enter
the fight until Mi. hael Ijllla started
to interfere and that wSen Shing'a
now, "the situation is developing." "That
mob of gentlemen called the press," if
Griawold & MacKennon of St. Johnsbury another pair of quotes may be spared
Are Hard Pressed I caneu 10 m un pimmix
the proceedings of the executive session
St. Johnsbury, April 2ft. The firm of extraordinary last Friday evening, but
Griswold & MacKennon, one of the best chastisement was deferred. It was hint
known wholesale grain houses in Vcr- ed that a dictagraph may have been
mont, is in financrat etrait and a meet- used to bring the people's business be
ing of its creditors, chiefly banks in this fore the people and then again, the leak
section, was called for to-day to deter- j w as ascribed by one lexicographer to a
mine upon a course ot procedure. I "squealogTaph.
In the meantime, David h. Porter and South Barre has a vision of prepared-
Robert W. Simonds, counsel for the firm, ness in the matter of fire protection and
are in charge of affairs and conducting to the end that something may lie done
the business. x I in the near future, some of its citizen.
It is thought that the amount involved through Alderman llealv. aHked thecoun-
will lie nearly fl.VWXXl. tin account of cil to quote them a price on three by
the banks refusing to extend further drant to lie supplied w ith water through
credit the firm has been unwble to con- the city mains. It was indicated that
tinne. The causes set forth are the the village might expect the city to pur-
great jump in priiTO owing to war con-lehase and install the hydrants and fur-
Dismembered Body cf Premature Child at
St. Johnsbury.
St- Johnbiry. April 25 The authoii
tepped in to blp his friend Wniott'tie are investigating a gnieome find in
hit lum. He h a di-Iired ere. Thejthe Catholic cemetery, the dismembered
(lit ions and the necessity of filling order
which were received at the old price for
future delivery. They have also lot
heavily on account of the railroad em
bargoes: It i expected that a receiver
will be appointed either to continue the
business and straighten out affairs or to
clone it up.
Captain E. F. Griswold. the senior
member of the firm. i one of St. Johns
bury'a oldest business men. He has re
cently returned from Montreal, where he
underwent an operation on his eyes, but
the nervous shock incident to the im
pending failure of his concern haa caused
a complete breakdown and he is now in
Brightlook hospital, suffering total blindness.
A GRUESOME FIND.
Tie finsn iaj secretary of t' Kn g' Is
of ( Wunki wii! tw at tb Knights nf ig l-'e ii'",.,-r an 1 fKer arrher. 1 ier
kn'fe thy threw into the river yrsterday
mornmg. They had been the bill
s' fe 03 te p.dHleHoro a" day wst -li-
nili water for a stated rental p.r an
num. No one seemed to have a very
definite idea f what the job would le
worth and so the request was referred
to the fire and water committees with
instruction to investigate and report.
A. Tonwsi and bis contractor, A. B.
I .a ne. called on the council to ascertain
whether a permit is to lie granted for
the extension of hi building front on
North Main street. He was infoitned
that the council voted last week to turn
down the reqiie-t for a ermit. Inter
rogated as. to his opinion. Building In
spector Rand reminded the council of
the danger involved in permitting abut
ting block owners to extend their struc
ture too near the street. Mr. Tomasi.
havinir entered a counter request for a
restoration of the grade on Merchant
street, there followed a general discus
sion of condition near the corner nf
N'oith Mam and Merchant tret. Mr.
Ton-asi offered to boild a concrete i,e.
end. A number of candidates for citizen
ship were on hand and there were plenty
of indications that the court would put
in a busy day. Clerk F. S. Piatt of Rut
land was accompanied to the city by
United States Marshal Allen F. Carpen
ter of Brattleboro, Deputy Marshal
George C. Lackey of Montpelier, Bailiff
Jame Haley of Montpelier and the in
termediary, Charles DeK. Bancroft.
Misses Pine and Holton acted as assist
ant clerks.
To-day's session of naturalization
court in Barre was the first in several
months and many applicants of the first
and second class, it was expected, would
appear before final adjournment.
Twenty persons appeared before Clerk
F. S. Piatt of the United States court at
the federal building in Montpelier ye
terday afternoon and evening, 11 of the
number taking the first step toward be
coming citizens of this, country by being
granted the first naturalization papers
and nine applied for the final paper.
Papers were granted to the following:
Urlrnno Aba jo, Spain. Montpelier; Al
fredo Aja, Spain, Montpelier; Michacle
Anzalone, Italy, Woodbury; Giusoppa
Augustoni. Italy, Montpelier: Alfred J.
Back, Kngiand, Montpelier; Franklyn G.
Beaton, Province of Vtielicc. Cabot; Ci
priano Canale. Spain. Montpelier; Al
Ix'rt Edward t'ohKsmith, Kngiand. More
town; Justo Gomez, Spain. Montpelier;
George M. Knowles, Canada. Brookfield.
Applications were filed for the final pa
per by Gennaro I iampl, Italy, Montpe
lier; Nicola (inzone, Italy. Yet Berlin:
Giuseppe Mazzini. Italy, Montpelier; An
tonio Xieolino, Italy, Mont ielier: 1 Maker
ONen. Norway, Moiitdier; William
Kudd. Kngiand. Berlin: Kdnioml Savoie,
I'rovince of (,'ueliec, Montpelier: Peter
Shepari, lYovince of (Quebec. Montpe
lier; Angelo St a linen, Italv. Montpelier.
Assistants to t lerk Piatt vcterdav
were U. S. Marshal Carpenter of itmt
tlelioro, IVeputy Marsh il . f. lackey,
HaililT J. S. HaW-y. Intermediary t '. D K.
Bancroft.' Miic Holton and Pine. Me
nographcrs. WILS0NS NAME ALONE.
Will Appear cn the Ballot for the Ver
mont Primary.
K.ssex Junction" April 2ti. S,-,-retrv nf
State i.uy W. lai!ey announced lit
ni-ht thnt the only written assent of .1
candilate for the presidency of the I nit
ed -t.ite received hv him w froi.i
President oo,how s..n. The latter',
name will, therefore, lie f,c only m.e
(iritited on the laillofs to lc ue-t jt t'
.Ik from the ctner to the end of br. ' preTrreni.ai prin.-r.e. mv i-, me
property line if the ctr will rie the r-hnS ""h "-'" lt ?'..
grade It waa thought '.dvis.We to g. f I TW, Irt.es will I r.f res.ntr.1 -n
b;t more firt land information in fl.st ' KPbN an. l,i. rst.c n.
,;l,tw.r,o.w1 wi'S the resM t, V,- ratcru! Progressive. oters of t '.e iirt
Iwvly of a premature child. Some chil
dren playing in the cemetery came across
a r-'tgh worslen NX containing the l"Jv. .'ermanie c"'Tni!ttee of the
The besd ami ar-" bad been re-novel : .'jfe.l to srV. r on the corner t
oSuirhsm" r!-ih evrry W" tniay antiwere tken to Newfin jad It niK!tird the body waa partly deem set. ' noon at t:!J o'llnt. that t.m. it js i in t .e !.' V ;-ee pr.ivi-,!
tritay erenirig fr - ra . to !. t Hiwtl' I the outcoire rf Vertx-tts in-Heith itfi.yr f. S. liamman is ine
''ie. jurtc. f fit.nj the .
(CnBiinue-I on fosirth raj )
j,te i . ard lt r-ane-.i panics i,i i.ave t e .(.-
dfjer-1 tT'ritv of wr.tteg in tJieir pr-e,i.-e.
) ! 7...
lion's s'ii;rtes w.l f n 1 s r.e
j r:r.te-l. a ti e lem--rat c in; .;ate.
