VOLUME XXXI. LAURENS, SOUTH CAROLINA, WEDNESDAY, APRIL 26,1916.
TROOPS TO R[MAIN
NTILl BETTER TIM[8
Washington is Determined
Not to Move Yet
TO PROTECT FRONTIER
AGAINST VILLISTAS
Understood That ('arranza Will Be In
.ited to Cooperate More Freely in
Suppression of tanditry. itedispo.
stton of Forces Recommended by
Funston. WiN Shift Lines.
Washington, April 23.-Besides a
formal announcement today that
President Wilson has approved a
plan for the redisposition of the
American troops In Mexico there was
a plain . intimation tonight that the
Washington government had deter
mined to maintain a military status
quo beyond the border until the Mex
ican de facto government had dem
onstrated its ability to capture or
crush Villa and his adherents and
prevent repetitions of the Columbus
raid.
Ii the interim it is understood the
American troops will be so placed as
to safegaurd the border towns by vir
tually policing the area south of the
line where Gen. Carranza has been
heretofore unable to check bandit op
erations.
Secretary Baker announced the ap
proval of the redisposition plan af
ter consulting with the president to
lay over a joint report submitted by
Maj. Gen. Funston and Maj. Gen.
Scott, chief of staff, in conference on
the border. The plan was proposed
by Gen. -Iunston and concurred in by
Gen. Scott. The secretary announced
the administration's decision as fol
lows:
"Gen. Funston has recommended
a redisposition of the forces in Mex
ico for the purpose of recuperation
and pending opportunities for further
cooperation with the forces of the do
facto government of Mexico. The
recommendation has been approved
and its execution left to his discre
tion."
Later the secretary dictated the
following:
"The statement I have made indi
cates nothing whatever on the sub
ject of when the American troops
will be withdrawn from Mexico. The
whole subject of withdrawal of the
forces is under arrangement and ne
gotiation by the state department."
Mr. Baker declined to say whether
Gen. launston's recommendation in
eluded his previous suggestions that
the border base be shifted from Co
lumbus, N. M., to Presidio, Texas, or
some other point to the east of Co
lumbus in order to shorten the line
of communication. iHe stated posi
tively, however, that no additional
regiments had been ordered to the
border and that no such order was in
contemplation. The secretary made
it clear also that. miliary oilicials of
thle government wer~e not considering
lie qunest ion of withdrawal from
Mexico, that the matter being solely
in the hands' of the state dlepartmenut.
It was announced tonight that Cen.
Scott hadl completed his mission to
the border and would return to WVash
ington in a few dlays.
The new military plan leaves the
pursuit of Villa at a standstill but
frees Gen. Funston's hands to make
the position of the forces in Mexico
secure by grouping them in posts of
such strength as to protect them from
attack by irresponsible elements of
the defacto government's forces. it
also will serve as a plain warning to
Gen. Carranza that he must bend
ev'ery effort toward getting complete
control of the territory south of the
most advanced American post if lie
hopes to have the troops recalled.
(During the rearrangement of the
line, at least, there will be opportuni
ty for the state department to make
counter-proposals to Gun. C'arr~anza
urging greater cooperation as a
means to cause early withdrawal. The
halt will &lso give the men and
horses of the American flying col
umns a chance for much needed rest.
With the troops concentrated in
positIons where they can control the
entire situation in the territory ground
themi if the need arises, it may be
argued to Gen. Carranza that they
form a wall against which he can
NEWIJERRY COLLEGE WON
IN ORATORICAL CONTEST
Great Crowd In Greenwood to hear
the Young Men, Second Place Went
to Furman and Third to Wofford.
Greenwood, April 21.-=James C.
Kinard, representing Newberry col
lege, won the South Carolina inter
collegiate oratorical contest here to
night, speaking on "Millions for De
fense". Second honors went to .1. A.
Brown, Jr., of Furman, whose subject
was "The Fallacy in Preparedness,"
and third place was awarded to Thom
as Hall Glenn of Wofford, who spoke
of "A New Ideal of Internationalism."
The contest tonight marked its re
turn to Greenwood after an absence
since the spring of 1911, when the
orators have been neard in the audi
torium of Winthrop college, at Rock
11111. Tonight it was in the chapel of
lander college.
Greenwood people welcomed the
State Intercollegiate Oratorical asso
ciation's home coming and the larg'
auditorium was crowded with an aud
ience that listened attentively to the
nine collegians.
Long since the honor of winning
the state contest has been one coveted
by ambiious speakers in every male
institution in the state, and tonight's
orations showed that men of ability
were representing the rcspective col
lege and universitie.
Preparedness, and the great war,
came in for their full share and where
a speaker did not choose one of these
ap his main topic, he usually alluded
to them some time during his ora
tion.
The judges for tonight's contest
were: J. G. Evans, Spartanburg; M.
L. Bonham, Anderson; J. B. Park,
Greenwood; J. P. McNeill, Florence.
*-. S. McKeown of Clemson, presi
dent of the association, presided. Mu
sic was furbished by the B. M. I. or
chestra.
W. H. Youngblood of the Presby
terian College of South Carolina was
eletced president of the association;
Frank Edwards, Erskine, vice presi
dent; 1-i. R. Drake, Furman, record
Ing secretary; R. W. Sease, Newberry,
corresponding secretary; F. R. Rog
ers, the Citadel, treasurer; executive
committee,. J. D. Brandenburg, Uni
versity of South Carolini; L. Bur
nett, Wofford; .1. O. K. Sanders, Col
loge of Charleston; A. 13. Dick, Clem
son.
drive the bandits from the South.
The intimation would be that either
this must be (lone or Carranza forces
themselves must crush out all brigan
dage before withdrawal of the Anier
ican force could be arranged for.
It is possible that, to avoid the pos
sibility of clashes such as that at Par
ral the new American bases will be
established at points somewhat north
of the present most advanced posi
tions. A minor withdrawal, it was
said, might aid Gen. Carranza in
granting the adlditional coop~eration
which will be suggested.
It is knowvn that the possibility of
asking Geu. Obr'egon, Carr'anza war
minister, to comle to the border for a
conference has been suggested hiere.
hiccause of the jealousy Carranza is
saidl to feel over the position the warii
minister occupies in the nmindis of the
Mexican peop)1lihowever', dhoubt is felt
as to the practicability of carrying out
this plan.
All recent reiports indlicate the
prIessing need of relief for Glen. Persh
ing's advance guard, particularly the
cavalry. Men were described as phy
sically strained, without shoes, their
uniforms frayed and their horses
jaded. Many new mounts have been
forwarded and qulantities of clothing
have been sent them. The troops took
the field with only the essential field
outfittings.
Movements of Carranza troop~s near
the border have been closely followed
by Ghen. Funston and wer'e rep~orted
to President Wilson today by Secre
tary Baker. Ghen. Funston is said to
have demonstrated that unless there
Is sthorough cooperation between the
American troops and those of the do
facto government of Mexico, it would
be difmiult for the pursuit of Villa
to continue 'successfully.
Practically all President Wilson's
closest advisors have urged that the
troops be kept in Mexico at least un
til there are reasonable grounds for
believing that there will be no more
tlinne along the border.
|comP[[[Ttn OG OFCHAITIc
Children's Hour .. .. ..10:30 A. M. Afternoon Music .. .. ..4:00 P. M.
Morning Lecture .. .. ..11:00 A. M. Afternoon Lecture .. .. ..4:30 P. M.
Evening Music .. .. .. ...7:45 P. M. Evening Entertainment ...8:30 P. M.
The Julia Claussen program will begin promptly at 8:00 P. M.
Hour Subject to change by announcement
Friday Afternoon .'Tesday Evening
Introductory Exercises I C Schumann Quintet
Grand Concert Killarney Girls Lectre,
Children's Hour, "American Hirds in "'fic Forces That Makes Cities"
Story Land" Allen 1). Albert
Admission 35c Children 15c Admission 50e Children 25e
. Friday Evening lledmrsday Morning
'Concert Killarney Girls
Lecture, "The Man Who Can" Children's lour,
William Rainey Bennett "Stories of Laughter"
Admission 50c Children 25e Moining; Lecturo
Admission 50c) Children 25c)
Saturday Morning
Children's Hour, "The Why Stories" ediesday Afternoon
Admission 25c Children 15c Concert White llussars
Saturday A fternoon Intorpretative Reading,
Grand Concert, Weatherwax BrotlWrs l "Seven Oaks" Everett Kemp
Admission 35e Children 15e Admission 35e Children 15c
Satturday Evening Wednesday Ivoning
Concert Weatherwax Broth rs
Lecture,
'oplar Science IDemonstrat ions" l l 0c Chldcen 2.,c
Montraville Wood Thursday 3lornitg
Admission .0e Children 25c j('l dt's 1ion g,
Monday Morninr ( 'The hollow 't'ee Stogies''
Children's flour, Admission 25e ('ldren Ic
"Stories from tile Classics" Thrsday .1 t(t'ttIt
Miorning Leeltire I ccii'e, '.1y \Vild liid ( uest ''
Adrission 2.,e Children 1,c Etest eHrold laynes
Monda A f'ternoon Adiission 3:c Chldren ioe
Lecture. "The New Orient and Its '1'hrusdav Eveig
Relation to the 'nited States" Bird Masqu,
Ng Poon Chew "Sanctuary and Pageant
Admission 35c Children 15c Admission 50c Children 25c
Monday Evening Friday Afternoon
"In the War Zone" Lectire, "The World We Live In"
A Classic Comedy I Di'. M. T. Hagerman
"The Lady of Gray Gables" Admission 31'ic Children 15c
Parish Players Friday F'enlag
Admission 50c Children 25c Song Recital
Tuesday Morning Julia Claussen, Prima Donna, Con
Children's Hour, tralto, Chicago Grand Opera Co.
"Folk Tales from Different Nations" assisted by
Morning Lecture Pierre hlenrotte, Concert Meister,
Admission 25c Children 15c Chicago Grand Opera Co.
Tuesday Afternoon Marcel Cha'lier, Conductor, Chicago
Grand Concert Schumann Quintet Grand Opera Co.
Admission 35c Children 15c Admission $1.00 Children 50c
lilt. FANT ll:UE. TiHE1 ('IROSS ANCHIORt MEETING.
Candidate for Railroad C'orn nmksiotiem A Sttb-('ott iiritt4eC Appioited to Loo4k
Wmrlednesdayotit Mornting
Spient, Sei erirl 1ays Iti tire ('aunty. Furter inothe111001 tg111( yslt
r. Albert " ant, of telton, can-o ghe
(lidate for Railrioadl ('0111 ltssioner, day in ('ross :Anchiot woundc up with
was fiog the pr'omiinit visitors5 iii the apoiit tin of a sCildroitlee of
Laurens last Wednesday. While in sevet who arto to gather further facts
thle city \Itr. Pailt caliled uiponi several an t lgrtes onth le iir'illosit ion. 'Thley
Cit0 eo rtncere('th tite tHussarlis
or is friernds ateea also tiM a larger edi
nitmt er h ot' 0 the lcr:i it1 s melnt of I~ati w~hole oin May !t)il. at I1Sth tile p~lac e.
rens. le also went illnto several see- i' 10iti"een was marke t by iminse
tbons (of rthe ('omttiy shafti ng hanlds ethuiitsiaismi ad ei vertyonle who w~as
with his ity ritnds arid boost ing pr'setI ente away frlly con in'ed
G randI t Coceri W~(i 11lehite llussarsit
his candidaCy. Mr. hidrn't is a tlau of
iiaiy a ital' trits, of a conigen ial r"e' irt tusuaIly well represened.
per'sonality' and a live wire0. During her 'oesdiion sent from il urens
his visit to lhis (1ounty Ite made many aiotI Iwon 3'-lv toiirri.g cars til
fredadceaetonn-with 1itsitc Iiooste's. Irt ial
tg ly ('very bTuriness house in town was
"etesenty, and aguens was I i a o
F( L. lii riday A ,too ny ot.
l~ir'st Leciuref"tie SWorldtWe Live In"
Admsson35rChlden15
1100k p wit I li localLongieiieciitai
l~oiitatiTi asssed awy a i 111
c~tlbfltiti TisIstheitlta aulei alier sHderti t 1i Concert Mier
forth lcal bt 110' av 1)01 1111 Kulhhao Grand Opira o.'ft e
tAdissoncIev w5t'ChaldIre 15c Admss ionis la $ i.0 Cilen 50ea
thedbete ofo ti i lroad'v otmisaorac-src ohsta3 ied m ia
Sngtoo outerat wihays ('t'he oodlvelenty.antveo airn
wao then t)1shroinnth inton and oescinsxynn er
Larnis oneorte Wedesdahy' Whye h.aoin fnta evce vr l
The fcit .\t.hat nlled uave deedtreatl iehi~ hm eeey
P. hC. tend and alNsoei' miltam eslargeeb w sn, .B
numbwr tha they havsie gs e of th ngtau- f hscty ad D'
goons. lei batery in notra et eore ngtoftecll n
tionsdaoghereMt'sunt. 1shakiagfeyands
lowill h ds many flingin andl hurss lolingtostpsn, essC
will dtemit wri.s Toe amnenia-l TO),allW Hbadoi
prsoaylwil eald a t fii. o'lDu hlriseinsg1011Cd'eso
ahis vs theaonsini 5ad2 Oi~ this cituntyt hes thaden manyv
finsad ratyd lome, stronge al swsuisef 'e' a
Firste'tme Collegewl eaken iidtwaeenetsli a md oitt i i
'lins tnh closiangd I~rnsty-Ridg i oeada ietn fhsdal
sThe fee. bllgm o h se son tdctznofhshm on
wlbePlaye At Saouturda whe
The teadfrom thoo ClintoeMills willa Wtt ll
Asokiutiont the Mloenll llresent 1 1s e.M.3 .Breti o s
"Aubntin.hs itn thet inia gameuitig e.M.LLwsinaere
fcol h audilsrium Th dae Aenpriu fmetnsathe- ,Curhwi
2th bet 8:34)i. Theyeganeonotndaycrack
TO HOLI) CLOVER DAY
AT Hi1ODES DEPOT
County Demonstrator Moore Would
Like to have a Large Body of Lau
rens County Farmers Attend.
Mr. P. W. Moore, county farm dem
onstrator, Is organizing a party of
Laurens county farmers to attend a
big Field Meeting at Hodges, Green
wood county, tomorrow. Several farm
ers of that community have been very
successful in the cultivation of clover
and they are willing to give to the
farmers of the vicinity the benefit of
their experience.
Mr. Moore stated yesterday that he
was very anxious to have a large
number of people go from this coun
ty. He suggested that those having
automobiles invihe those who have
not and thus make a big crowd of it.
The following letter of Mr. W. '.
Stewart explains the matter more
fully.
Clemson College, S. ('.,
April 22, 1'116.
Dear Sir:
A big Field Meeting will be held
at Hodges, Greenwood county on
Thursday, April 27th, that should hen
eIlt al l who attend. Ilodges is situat
e4d on the Southern and P. & N. rail
roads about 1(1 miles north of Green
wood.
Mr. Iob lodges of this 1la1 pirolb
ably a s more c riiisioi clover eCxpleri
(nCe than anty mian in the state. Those
attending this mteeting will have the
iprivilege of seeing wlat .Mr. Ilodges
is doing with this cr1o0p and of hear
ing himi give his experience with it.
Mr. IHodges has, with the use of crim
son clover, brought up a very poor,
sandy farm to where it made more
than $5,000 worth of cotton last year
with the use of only $100 worth of
commercial .fertilizers. Mr. W. W.
Iong and others of the extension forc
es have been asked to make address
es. Can't you get together a party of
interested farmers, business men,
bankers, newspaper men and others
of your county and come to this meet
ing? Such a trip should be of incal
culable value to you and the demon
stration work in your county.
Very truly yours,
W. P. Stewart,
District Agent.
1tUSSIANS NOW ON
THLE WESTElRN FitONTr
large Body of Czar's Army Now Help
ing Allies in Franee.
London, A pril 20).--Russia has come
to the aid of France and Great lirit
ain in the great striggle on the west
ern front. She has a strong force
of Iroops to tight with the allies
there. The lussians disembarked at
Marseilles at noon.
The arrival was noted in the order
of the (lay by the Frencli commander
in-chief, Joffre.
The Russians are believed to have
emba rked at Archangel, on the White
Sea, the only 1)ort1 through which
theire is fr'ee comm n iilentfo hOiiet weeni
lIuossia an th1 le allies ini the west. It
is coinside red pirobabhle fliat trains ports
made a widhe sw'eep out intRo the
Northi A tlaintie beforie headling for thle
Med iteiran0eanl to a void subhma rineCs
in the vicinity of the liritish isles.
lIn this ('11cnecti it Is noted'i pri
vale advices to' New York state thiat
A rchaiige! has boeRn cl0oed to all but
gov'er~nent shiipping. Tlhiis miay' in
dicate other trioop mlovemfentIs to thle
wester'n front either are und~eir way
or contemplated.
Several timfes (luring the war there
has been replorts that Russia was
sending troops to the western front,
travelers even declarinig they had
seen detachments en route through
Scotland and England. No such
troops ever appeared on the wvestern
battle line.
Fine Auto Biirnied.
The large seven-passenger National
touring car Iin which Mir. and Mrs.
Paul Alexander drove from Spartan
hurg to 1Laurienis last Sunday enught
fire near' Ora as they were returning
to their home in Spartanbug and was
practically destroyed. Mlr. Alexander
who was drniving, did not discover the
fire until too late to save the car and~
the occupants had to make a hurry
exit to save themselves. It is not
known exactly howv the fire origiinatedh
but it is suipposed that a crossed wire
waft the cause. The ear was the pro
perty of the Finch Auto Company of
Snartanhurgr.
WILL START FRIDAY
Big Ticket Selling Cam
paign Starts Friday
FOUR TEAMS TO
COVER THE CITY
Big ('anvas Tent is Going up on the
Graded Syhool Grounds, Largo
Crowds are Expected to Attend from
the Surrounding Country.
With the tent rapidly going ipl) on
the school grounds and a big ticket
selling campaign mapped out for to
morrow, everything seems to be in
readiness for the big Redpath Chau
tauqua which begins Friday. Yester
day evening the guarantors met in the
E'nterprise National Bank building and
discussed every detail which would
tend to facilitate the sale of tickets.
The principal thing agreed upon was
that no guarantor would sell any
tic ket for less than $2.50 before lFri
day nor less Than $:.O after that time.
In order to facilitate the sale' of tick
ets the following resolutions were
(Iraw in up and passed at the nieeting,
'eaclh "luarantor present. signing. it,
other guarantors: being exp(ectet to
signI it to(lay:
We,'v %the u1nders:ignedc guatranfors
of the 1111ens (Chauta uqua, hereby
relieve all of those who have prom
ised to buy tickets from us from all
obligations to buy tickets from us pro
vided they buy them from someone
else. This is (lone to facilitate the
sale of tickets. We also urge every
citizen of Laurens to buy tickets at
the earliest possible moment, in order
to relieve the ticket sellers from un
necessary trouble; and we further
more agree not to sell any tickets for
less than $3.00 after Thursday night."
Tomorrow a big ticket selling cam
paign will be put on, Messrs Rice
Nickels, W. R. McCuen, W. E. Meng
and Allie Lee were appointed cap
tains of teams to canvas the entire
city and sell tickets. They will mako
report from time to time to a central
committee, which will have the big
"W3id Cat. Whistle" at. the oil mill
blown every time ten tickets are re
ported sold. It is expected that the
city will he in a hubhnb all day TIhurs
day when the reports of ticket sales
commence to roll in.
A gratifying report of the sale of
tickets already sold was made and it
is conbldently exp lted that the pro
position will he lut through with a
rush.
(lhaiutauqua 'imTen on School ,Lot.
M9r. Kris Messner and his three
crew boys have already erecte-I the
new Hedpath ('hautauqua ten: on the
high school lot. The tent equipment
is all new this year and has a seat
ing enpacity of some 2,500 people.
The crew men with the chautauqua
are ill college mncn and will he found
mlost (couttteouis ini iveriy re'spIect.
Superitenden~('tt Armrives To'day i.
Dr. Iirke, the uper' itendentI of
thle chau ta utlua here, will ariri ve to
day. lI I will have charge of the hius-.
inless ('nd( of thel chautauqua iind the
intr oduct ion of th lie'a~ike rs. 1 Dr.
Iburke is a prtominenlt iister of the
of note.
(Childlren's Work.
Miss Frances Dunning, who will
have charge of the children's work, is
a graduate of Columbia School of Ex
pression. Sho has boen an instructor
at Moody Bible School and is uto
wtidely known for her abIlity in phiysi
cal training,
Morning Lecturer.
Dr. Armstrong is the morning hour
lecturer and -a noted poet. He will
pilease everybody with his interestinig
lectures andl poems.
Advance Agent.
Mr. Witherspoon, who is in chargo
of adivance arrangements, sale of
tickets, etc., has beeni in thle city .inco
Satutrday anid has been actively at
woirk laying plants for thle whirtind 1(
eamnpaign of ticket soiling tomorrow.
Mr. Witherspoon is a graduate of
Washington anid .Jefferson college and
Is a very pileasant andi affable gentle
man.
Can1d te For Aldernman.
Mr. D. 0. Peterson, a native of this
place, is a candidato for alderman i
the city of Union. Mayor Whargton,
of that city, has nthmerouts relattves ia
the contni.
