' The prophet who isn't known in his
' own country can safely lay the blame
at the door of poor advertising Proof
A man doesn't know what is in him
until he tries and he hasn't tried
until he has advertised Scribe
VOL. XXXV, NO. 30
HYDE PARK, VERMONT, WEDNESDAY, APRIL 26, 1910.
$1.25 A YEAR
TAXIB
I am now ready for the Season's Busl
cess and will make long or short trips
ITei 83-11 At Reasonable Rates
LOGAN NILES. M ORRIS VI LLE
y lady may obtain at this store
age of California Sweet Pea Se-da FREE
THE CALIFORNIA PEHFUJIER
has sent us 30,000 seeds to distribute Free to
all. Come at once before they are gone
you do not have to buy auyiuing the seeds
are free, s" come today.
Three handsome prizes are offered for the
product of the seed.
Plant the seed now see our windows for
prizes and date of contest.
Royal Cherry Buds is the latest perfume.
Come in and sample iu
We will begin giving away
these Sweet Pea Seeds on
MONDAY MAY I
BRIGGS DRUG STORE
MORrtlSVILLE, VERMONT
WATCH FOR O.
I have no partners or relative in mv
business. I want your OLD JUNK OF
ALL KINDS. Special price tor Wool this
Spring. Notify me by postal or 'phone.
OSCAR KAHN
Tel. 25-5 Lake Street, Morrlsville, Vt.
Kg" Paid for this paper? Last call.
1 1 California Lf
SweefPeaSeedsvL
M evcrv ladv mav obtain at this itore t oack- 7
v
At Saleebj's
A'tittle Better than You Expect to Get
For Your Money
Every garment we now have to offer is a
little better than its price.
Wonderful Values in
Women's Suits at $15.00, 17.50 and 19.50
Women's Coats at
Girls' Coats at
Women's Waists, 69c,
Women's Skirts at
Men's Suits and Top
$10.00,
Men's Rain Coats at
Boys' Rain Coats at
Boys' Suits at
Children's Top Coats
and everything else in the line of Spring Furn
ishings and Shoes for Men, Women & Children
IT WILL PAY YOU TO INVESTIGATE OUR CLAIM.
A. J. SALEEBY
"THE STORE THAT SAVES YOU MONEY."
OHNSON, a VERMONT
BUSINESS NOTICES.
Wanted. To buy some good Hens.
A. W. Waitb, Mokrisvillh.
Wanted. A man to work on a far a. Must
be a good milker. C. A. Kbed, Wolcott.
Wanted. Yearlings to Pasture for the sea
son ; good feed, good fences, plenty of water. .
J. T. Jewett, Hyde Park.
For Sale One Sheep and one Calf Power;
also Keg. Guernsey Hull is mos. old.
M. . Brewster, Johnson
For Sale. One Jersey Bull, coming two, solid
color j tnree yeaning Duns to turn out;one White
Chester Brood sow. ti. I. Bashaw, Stowe
Cash Paid. Highest Cash Price paid for
calves, cneap cows, ttunsana nogs.
lel.124-31 JOHN MINER, HYDB PARK.
Wanted. A Girl for General Housework in a
family of three, near Brockton, Mass. For par
ticulars address Mrs. N. I. Perry.
Telephone u 3 Johnson.
Notice. Monday, May 1, Woodwards will
start their Milk and Cream route in Hyde Park
village. Also Berries, Vegetables, Honey, etc in
season. T. K. Woodard, Tel. 118 10.
For Sale. Full set Ford automobile wheels.
Sound and newly painted. One 30x3 automobile
tire too good for the junkman. A bargain if you
are interested. Dr. C. S. Leach, Hyde-Park.
Rugs From Your Old Carpets. Stearns
pays the freight on your carpets and returns them
cleaned and rewoven into New and Beautiful Rugs.
Circulars and shipping tags upon request.
Box 392 Steakns Rug Co., Manchester, N.H.
For Sale Eggs For Hatching. Pure Bred
Barred Plymouth Rocks. The best laying flock I
ever owned or heard of. See their record. Eggs
selected and fertility guaranteed. First setting
sold, hatciied every egg. Une setting per day
50 cents a setting.
Dr. C. S. Leach, Hyde Park.
Farmers. We are buying Maple Sugar and
paying market price. Bring it any day and get
your cash. We have a car of best quality second
clear shingles on the road. We will make a spec-
ial cash price of $2 5a per thousand, if taken at
car. Place your order now. A good time to
shingle as they are lowest they have been for sev
eral years. Strong & Goddard, Hyde Park.
MORRISVILLE
Frank Wright has been in New York
State the past week on business.
Miss LefaXay attended a terpsichorean
event at Burlington Tuesdav eveninr.
$8.50, 10.00 and 14.98
$2.98, 4.75 and 6.90
$1.00, 1.39 and 2.48
$2.98 and 4.98
Coats at
12.50, 15.00 and 17.50
$5.00 and. 7.90
$2.90
$2.98, 3.75 and 4.90
at $2.98, sizes 3 to 8
THE MAIL ORDER HOUSE
Tune, "The Old Oaken Bucket."
How dear to my heart are the scenes of my childhood
When fond recollections present them to view
The church, and the store, and the 6chool in the wild
wood, And all the loved spots that my infancy knew.
Last summer I wandered again to the village,
But found not a neighbor of old or his spouse;
The streets were deserted, the farms needed tillage
The town had been killed by the mail-order house.
The village had vanished when merchants were ban
ished, But one lone survivor, as scared as a rabbit,
I found, and asked why the village was dead.
"The town got the mail-order catalog habit,
And that was what killed it forever" he said.
"It was not a war, epidemic, or pillage,
No foeman's invasion or robber's carouse:
The money that should have developed the village
Was all sent away to the mail-order house
The money we earned here never returned here,
When once it was sent to the mail-order house."
Exchange.
O. Howard Smith of Stowe spent Sun
day with friends in town.
Charles Woolcutt of Elmore has been
visiting his sister, Mrs. George C. Gould.
Harley W. Camp begins work next
week as assistant to Station Agent Kel
ley. Mrs. Emma Marvin was the guest ol
friends in Greensboro several days the
past week.
Mrs. Ann Casvant of Cambridge was,
a guest over Sunday of her sister, Mrs,
Sidney Newcity.
Gideon Burnbam has begun work for
the Munson estate, taking Harold Bur
nett's place on the order team.
R. V. Eaton and son, Ren wick, were
in St. Albans over Sunday, where Mrs.
Eaton is visiting her sister, Mrs. Max
Greene, and family.
Mrs. F. A. Cutting, who has been quite
ill the past two weeks, is improving.
Her son, M. P. Cutting, was at home J
from Burlington a short time last week.'
W. K. Jackson of Woodsville. N. H
has been a guest of his brother, Dr. J.
Frank Jackson, several days the past
week. Walter has recently sold his shoe
repairing business in Burlington.
Twelve lit tie people were entertained
at the h me of Mr. and Mrs. George G.
Morse yesterday afternoon in honor of
the fourth birthday of their daughter,
Miss Shirley, Various games were en
joyed and dainty refreshments served.
Harold Dodge captured a woodchuck
in a peculiar manner at the Dodge farm
last Saturday. He saw the little animal
running around aimlessly and when he
got nearer to it, found that it had run
its head into a tin can, which was fas
tened securely around its neck.
E. S. Robinson and T. B. Ellis are in
Burlington as delegates to the Grand
Lodge from Lamoille Lodge, N. E. O. P.
The Warden desires all N. E. O. P. mem
bers to be present at the next regular
meeting, as reports of the Grand Lodge,
by the delegates, will be given at that
time.
Will S. Welch of the Elmore road is
planning to build a large and modern
barn on his farm this summer. He has
the lumber on the ground and will begin
operations within a few days, the car
penter work to bedone by W. I. LeBaron
and W. G. Goodiicb. Ic will be a twenty
sided barn, 240 feet incircumference. Mr.
Welch will tear down his old barns and
will use the lumber for manure sheds and
other buildings.
Miss Catherine Wilcox, an instructor
at Peoples Academy, met with a serious
accident while playing tennis in the gym
nasium last Friday night with other
members of the faculty and students.
They were just finishing a practice game
when the ball struck Miss Wilcox's
glasses,' breaking the right lens. The
glass cat the ball tf the eye at the right
of the pupil. Miss Wilcox went to Bur
lington Saturday morning and is receiv
ing treatment at the Mary Fletcher
Hospital. Late reports from the hospi
tal are encouraging.
Pleasant View Cemetery
If there are any who are planning to
have their lots in Pleasant View Cem
etry remade this spring and want the
work done by the Association, they are
asked to notify some member of the ex
ecutive committee, which consists of
Mrs. E. S. Robinson, Mrs. A. R. Camp
bell and Mrs. Mir a Heath, as the work
can be done more bdvantageously now
than later in trie season. If any, in thin
ning out their shrubs and bulbs, have
any that they care to give the cemetery,
they are asked to notify the committee.
An urgent request is made that the dues
for 1915 be paid at once to Mrs. Fred
Wbeeler.who will be glad to receive them
for the present year also.
Kelley Gets First Score
Maurice Kelley, who has been chosen
as third-sacker for the U. V. M. base ball
team, had the honor of making the first
score of the season for the team, in the
game with New Hampshire State Col
lege, which Vermont won last Saturday
bv a score of 3 to 0.
Son Furnished Father
t John'McDermott was in Justice La
fountain's court Saturday and pled guil
ty to the charge of intoxication. He
was again released and placed in the
hands of the probation officer. His son,
Patrick, aged 20, was in the court Mon
day forenoon and pled guilty to the
charge of furnishing and was sentenced
to from eleven twelve months in the
House of Correction. The sentence was
suspended and he was placed in the
hands of the probation officer.
Mrs. Qeo. M. Powers is visiting in Bos
ton and vicinity.
A. C. Merrill spent Sunday and Mon
day with relatives in Ciaftsbury.
Willis Mould of Mineville, N. Y., is
spending a ten days' vacation at his
home here.
State's Attorney Maurice and R. VV.
Hulburd left today for a fishing trip to
East Alburg.
Miss Theis Oakes of Stowe wasaguest
Saturday and Sunday at the home of
Rev. and Mrs. W. T. Best.
. Miss Lena Wilder returned to her
studies at the Johnson Normal Monday,
alter a two weeks' vacation.
, Miss Beryl Stewart, who is teaching in
Stowe, spent Sunday at the home of her
parents, Mr. and Mrt. T.J. Stewart.
Dr. J. Frank Jackson, W. K. Jackson,
C. H. Raymoreand A. W. Waite left this
noon for a fishing trip to Highgate
Springs.
Mrs. Harry Gregory of St. Johns-
bury was a guest over Sunday at the
homes of her brothers, George, Rob and
Hugh Wallace.
George W. Hunt was in Justice Lafoun
tain's court Monday to answer to a
charge of intoxication. He paid a fine
of $5 and costs.
Harold Johnson, a son of Dr. and Mrs.
E. H.Johnson of Connecticut, a student
at the U. V. M., and Robert Daniels of
Niagara Falls, N. Y., a brother of Mrs.
L. C. Robinson, were guests at the Rob
inson home over Sunday.
Mrs. G. H. Prior has sola" to James O
Reed her house on Bridge street, below
the Johnson tenement, the transfer being
made yesterday. Immediate possession
was given. The residence has been occu
pied for several years by C. Leon Terrill.
Miss Ruth Stewart was given a sur
prise party on Saturday evening at the
home of her parents, Mr. and Mrs. J. T.
Stewart, the event being in honor of her
13th birthday. Several pretty gifts were
received by the young lady and a pleas
ant evening was spent in playing games.
Refreshments were served.
Robert D Merrill, who has been an ef
ficient instructor at Peoples Academy
the past year, has been engaged for the
position of Principal of Bradford, Vt,
Academy the coming year. Mr. Merrill
has made many friends here, who will re
gret his departure, while congratulating
him upon his advancement in his chosen
work.
About thirty young people went to the
horn of Mr. and Mrs. Ernest Reed last
night, where a surprise party was given
their daughter, Miss Fannie Reed, upon
the occasion of her 18th birthday. The
evening was most enjoyably spent with
games and dancing. Refreshments were
served. Miss Reed was the recipient of
many nice presents, including a purse of
money from the guests.
TH E EA RLE STORE
House Gowns
We have gotten in our Spring line of those popular IDEAL
House gowns. A lot ofr people have been waiting for these gar
ments, for the? all say that they are the best fitting and best made
of any dress they ever bought and this year's numbers are no ex
ception to the general rule. Come in and see what handsome
things you can get for a small price.
New WTash Fabrics
Just arrived Monday morning a lovely line of White Goods,
consisting of Beach cloth, Marquisettes, PJisse, Pique, Rice Voile,
Dotted Muslins, Crepe 'de Chines. Barred Muslins. Also new
things in; Vestings, Silks, etc. You will want to see them.
Middies and Shirt Waists
We have a fine assortment of these goods at present ; so me
very aatty Middies-for Ladies and Misses. You can get a pretty
nifty waist for Oae Dollar. Ask to'see them,
GEORGE
Morrisville,
Prizes For Best Pig
The attention of young people is called
to the announcement of the Lamoille Co.
Savings Bank & Trust Co. on page six
of this paper, regarding the prizes offered
for raising the best pigs and the offer of a
loan of $5.00 to those who wish to enter
the contest. Enrollment must be made
for this event with E. L. Ingalis on or
before May 1st. This bids fair to be a
very interestingcontest and there should
be a large enrollment of boys and girls
in this county. ,
A Series of Accidents
Last week was a Jonah for the em
ployes of the Last Block factory, Waban
avenue, a series of accidents coming in
quick succession, making business for the
accident and liability adjusters. Carl
Burnham, who was running the re-saw,
used to saw out rolling pius from the
waste, was the first, being struck by a
piece of wood, which flew from the saw,
Thursday afternoon. He received a se
vere cut, extending fiom the left temple,
down between the eyes and over the
bridge of the nose. He was knocked
senseless. The same board struck Bur
ton Davis, who was working nearby, in
flicting a bad wound on his left cheek.
He went to Burlington Saturday and
had an x-rav examination. It was found
that the cheek bone was fractured. The
injury is a very painful one and he will
doubtless be laid up for some time.
Frank Kittridge had the forefinger of
his right hand badly mangled on the
same saw Friday morning at 4 o'clock,
being one of the night gang. He has
been of! duty since.
Erwin Hoyt was the last victim, re
ceiving a slight injury when a log rolled
over bis foot in the yard. .
HYDE PARK
The Concert Thursday night.
Col. McFarland is in White River June.
Hubert Harris has returned from the
hospital.
Mrs. Cornelia Small is able to sit up a
part of the time.
Woodard's milk route commences busi
ness next fonday.
Miss MarySavage of Northficld is vis
iting relatives in town.
SPRINGER CONCERT C
UNDER THE DIRECTION OF II. KI.VLEY
A MUSICAL EVNT
Bright, Glean, Snappy,
Up-to-date Entertainment
NO DULL MO HE NTS
Solos, Trios, Quartcls,
Humorous Irnpsrsonalions
Given under the Auspices of the Independent OrJer of Odd Fellows,
Thursday Evening, April 27
HYDE PARK.
Notice Owing to the length of th Pror-m, the Concert
will begin promitlg at 8 J AT.
Tickets, 50c, 35c, 15c
F. EAKLE
Vermont
The Rebekahs have a card party at
the lodge rooms this evening.
Miss Stanley, a trained nurse from
Burlington, is at Col. Sawyer's.
Lloyd Hulburd of Jericho spent a few
days here recently with his cousin Benj.
Will Cowan has returned from New
Hampshire, where he has been spending
some time.
Wm.. Paine of Cambridge is visiting
the Blancbard family; came up to see
that new grandchild. ,
Miss Elizabeth Noyes entertained the
mtmbersof Mrs. Abbott's Sunday-school
class last Tuesday evening. Games, ice
cream and cake made anenjoyableevent.
Remember the Springer Concert Com
pany entertainment Thursday evening of
this week the best musical event ever
given in this section. Tickets, 50c. 35c.
and 15c., now on sale at Wood's.
The McFarland prize speaking contest,
for the students of the L. C. A., wiil be
held at the Opera House on Tuesday
evening, May 2, at 8 o'clock. There will
be three prizes given for excellence in
speaking. A small admission fee of 15c
will be charged to cover expenses.
R. W. Hulburd received a cablegram
Tuesday from his daughter, Mrs. Con.
cer, who is now with her husband at
Vladavostock, Siberia, which is 5,800
i miles east of St. Petersburgh, Russia
and some 14,000 miles eastward from
here, and more than half way around
the globe. The message was simply
"greetings." Roger boasts that while
many cablegrams have come to Hyde
Park his is the longest distance yet to
reach here.
The one hundredth birthday of Mrs.
Mary Gibson, which occurred last Satur
day, was a very interesting event, both
to the lady and her many friends. Dur
ing the day thirty friends called on h er
and she received 125 cards, and many
gifts of fljwers, fruit, &c. Mrs. Colborne
a grand-daughter from Winchester.Ont. ,
with her two children, and Mrs. Elphick,
a daughter, from Montreal, spent Easter
with her. Little Miss Marjorie Colborne
and baby Edward Colborne are great
grandchildren, making four generations
present.
Oa Sale at N. G. Wood's
