Tt
"v j -.1 -
. it
Jj? Sunning Hrratfi
KLAMATH COUNTY'S
OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER
KLAMATH FALLS'
OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER
01
Tanth YearNe. 2,t77
KLAMATH FALLS, OREGON, WEDNESDAY, APRIL 26, 1916
Pries Fiva ffwato
Col. Dodd's Troops in Battle With Villistas
TWO AMERICANS ARE
KILLED AND OTHERS
WOUNDED IN BATTLE
COLUMBUS, N. M , April 26 Two American soldiers ware Uin andi
several wounded In a battla with a Vlllleta force Saturday, according to ad
vlcti Juat racalvad.
A column undar command of Colonel Dodd, consisting of a part of the
seeond cavalry, waa the engaged force. It defeated 300 Vllllttaa In Weatern
Chihuahua.
Meagre raporta Indicate that the Villista force wa compoaad of several
guerrilla banda, concentrated undar four general. Their loaaea are unknown.
The Americana routed the Mexlcane, and puraued them until nightfall.
y H. D. JACOBS
(Unltad Praaa Staff Correspondent)
NAMIQUIHI, Mexico, April 29. 8lx Vllllataa were killed and nineteen
were wounded In a three hours running fight between the Vllllataa and one
ef Colonel Oodd'a datachmanta near Machlc.
Colonel Dodd reported today that two Americana were killed and three
wounded. Twenty-five Horace war captured and the bandlta were acattered.
First French Prisoners Taken at Verdum
0tallamimmmmr XVWSaWaiai
WILSON OUTLINES
AMERICAN STAND
ON ARMED SHIPS
LMwti!
&Xf&4&JUteM&&&2fi!lS
Tlicse tiro the first Fronch prisoners taken at Verdun. Thla picture a rows them on the way to the railroad
Htatlon to be shipped to the prison camps in the Interior ot Germany. All the French soldiers in the trenches
now woir metal helmets to protect thorn against bursting shrapnel.
IL PASO, Tax., April 20. Carranalata officials aay Qeneral Obregon will
latitat upon "a aptady Amtrlcan withdrawal from Mexico, upon Obregon'a own
ttrma. It la understood that ha will plead that the de facto government can.
flat pacify ataxia while the expedition remalna. i
Obregon reached Saltlllo today. It Is not known whether he will meet
' "teeK it Jaurex, Laredo er Eagle Paas.
BALL TO HELP
KLAMATH QUEEN
BRITISH TROOPS
TO
SPECIAL SERVICES AT
I THE CHRISTIAN CHURCH
RUSH
DUBLIN
TILCQRAPHIC LINES ARE STILL
OUT, ANO THIS MAV MEAN
THAT REBELS STILL HOLD A
PART OF CITYOTHER NEWS
There will bo special services held
at the Christian church this evening,
beginning at 7:30. The song service
will be a special feature. It will be
followed by a sermon by the pastor,
the subject being "Rcconclllatlollp, or
Making Ood Your Friend."
There havo been a number of addi
tions to the Christian church member
ship recently, and tho church is plan
ning to render greater norvlce to the
Matter.
TODAY'8 ODDEST 8T0RY
United Press Service
SALEM, Ore., April 26. The
e mysterious disappearance of 320
mites of highway in Lincoln e)
count, as shown In the biennial e
BIO TIME A88URED THOSE AT
TENDINQ DANCE AT OPERA
HOUSE MI88 JACOBS NOW
STANDS EIQHTH IN RACE
(Herald Special Service)
PORTLAND, April 26. Following
CITY NEEDS NEW
FIRE APPARATUS
WASHINQTON, D. C April 26.
Belligerents should presume that
armed merchantmen are peaceful un
less "there is conclusive evidence 'to
the contrary."
This la the position of the American
government. It was officially declared
today.
Merely because an enemy merchant
man is armed does not constitute suffi
cient reason for a belligerent to de
clare It a warship, and attack it, re
gardless of the rights of persons on
board. These points are announced. to
the world today in a memorandum. In
tended to clear up the American posi
tion on the general subject of armed
ships.
- A warning Is to be Issued to Amer
icans, asking them to refrain from
traveling on certain armed ships, ,as
soon as me aaminuirauon leama wnat
vessels are under mandatory orders
from the allied governments. --
MEA8URE ON BALLOT AT MON-
DAY'S ELECTION SHOULD RE
CEIVE THE 8UPPORT OF ALL OF
THE VOTERS
road report of Oregon, caused the
.department ot agriculture at e
Washington to wonder.
When Malheur, the biggest
countv in the state, showed an e
Increase of 2,000 miles of high-
way In two years, the department e '
demanded an explanation of State
I'uslneer Lewis. . e if Klamath Falls expects to secure
Today Lewis madethis expla- e lower Insurance rates, the city must
was the standing In tho Rose Festival naUon t0 Washlnrten: The 1911 provide more modern fire apparatus.
Queen contest wbon the votes were
counted at 9 o'clock thla merning:
Mnud Oilman, Portland, 68,681.
Louiso Taylor, Portland, 66,428,
Kdol Fraasch, Eugene, 64,679.
Jewell Carroll, Portland, 64,682
toad report from Lincoln county An opportunity to do this without extra
war made when the tide was out. coat to the taxpayers presents itself
When the 1916 report was made at Monday's electoon.
the tide was in, and 320 miles of There Is on hand in the city nail
roast highways were under water fund a total ot 16,610.60. There are
onJ couldn't be counted.
, two questions on the ballot relating to
Rose Uptegrovo, Oregon City. 61.478. this. concerning the transferring
r-XUISTRATION Or VOTERO
NOT FINALLY REPORTED
Muriel Sating, Pendleton, 61,301.
Waive Jacobs, Klamath Falls, 66,654.
OeorRla White, Corvallls, 61,079.
Klcanor Jackson, McMlnnville, 39,766,
Marian Anderson, Albany, 29,787.
Uoltwl I'ress Bervlce
LONDON. April 26.-aovernmonl i HAI.KM. April 2C. Estimates were
roc-PS, hastily transported from Eug- nm(i0 nt tho offlco ot the secretary ot
wmd, have been rushed to Dublin. They1 ntat0 lojy tiiat tho registration for Anna Allen. Portland, 20,608.
occupied St. Stephens' and Liberty hall thc prmary election would be approx- Mlldren Pegg, Vancouver, 18,360.
In the heart of Dublin yosterday. Innately 226,000. Tho registration re- Myrtle McClarkln. Portland, 309.
The government Is taking prompt I p0,tctj' up to tho present time In 217,-, Christine Haach, Foicst Grove. 14
jwd energetic steps to suppress tho 77!)( DHl n nUmbor of countloi havo not
insurrection. Tho telegraph lines aro ' yot forwarded their completo lists. All Indications nro that there will bo
still out, and this Indicates that the! nr n. mtni mimintr rnnnrioii t the.a big crowd in attendance nt tho
renew still hold a part of the city. It
l believed that serious fighting con
tinues. Secretary Blrrell is going to Ireland.
Offlclal dispatches say the government
casualties are 19 killed and 27 In
Jurtd. Lord Lantdowne announced in the
nouae of lorda that the crew of tho
airman raider involved In the attempt
land troops and ammunition In Ire
land blew up their ship after they were
Mptured.
I'nlted Preaa Service
necretary'8 offlco 146,000 are repub
licans, 54,261 aro democrats, 1,169 aro
progressives, 5,134 aro prohibitionists,
4,900 aro socialists and 6,326 are miscellaneous.
Nearly all tho Paris newspapers ato
now gotten out by women.
ocourt wood and Hill No. 304 by tho
Germans. Thoro are no infantry
moves around Verdun.
A French aoroplane this morning at
tacked a Zeppelin off Zoebrugo, 13,000
feet aloft. Tho aviator throw nine in
"ARI8. AnHI 5fl , An Ittiak... Kami. hamiII.iv Immtiu ilnmnfr(iir llin dlrlfir.
jydment g being directed against Av-1 IMe.
Cleanup D
lay to Be Held
Here at an Early Date
danco to be given this -evening nt
Houston's opera house, far tho benefit
of the.cnndldacy of Miss Waive Jacobs,
Klamath's entrant In the contest for'
queen of tho Portland Roso Festival. .
The Poerless orchestra will furnish
music, and it is understood that many
of the candidates for county offices
will nttnnd In order to rat better ac
ot this money Into the general fund,
and the other concerning purchasing
automobile fire apparatus at a cost
of not oxceeding 6,510.60, Jthis money
to ne taicen irom me general iuna.
The council has advertised for bids
on an nutomoblle fire truck, a combl-
'nation ot hose cart and chemical en
gine, with and without a pump attach-
'ment for Increasing water pressure.
Such an addition to the present equip
ODD FELLOW8 HAVE BEEN CELE-'mcnt will s"PPly Klamath Falls, Are-
v I fighting apparatus needs for years to
BRATINQ THIS DAY A8 THE AN- come.
By CARL ACKERMAN
(United Press Staff Correspondent)'
i BERLIN, April 26. The United
l Press today learned authoritatively
that America's demand that German
submarines rive consideration to
) freighters, as well as to liners, teems
.loe raosi serious oc-siacie in the way
joi settlement, other points can be
, settled, but there is strong opposition
; here to any safeguarding of freighter
crews, as virtually every freighter Is
egnaged in the munitions traffic
There Is a growing feeling that there
will be no break. Apparently the ait- -uatlon
depends upon the firmness of
Wilson's stand.
Chancellor von Bethmann-Holweg
and Admiral von Holtsendora? arrived
at the kaiser's field headquarters to
day to confer with him ngardtag the
American situation. Holweg will re
turn at the end of the week, probably
with a rough draft of the German re
ply.
COMMITTEE ASKS;
A BIGGER NAVY
-
REPORT WILL ASK FOR NAVAL
BUILDINO TO COVER OVER TWO
HUNDRED AND SEVENTEEN MIL.
LION ARMY PLAN UP
FOR NEARLY ONE
HONORED YEARS
NIVER3ARY OF THE
TION OF THE ORDER
FOUNDA-
WM
WMTLOCK
On April 26, 1819, Thomas Wlldey,
John Welch, John Duncan. John1
qualnted with the voters of Klamath Cheatham and Richard Rushworth, in
60RIED TODAY
Falls.
Fan. the com,n ". Klamath
" will observe "Clean-Up Day."
rO.M0U.nca wwabera thla week
eS . ?f mthod, fop bMt uc'
y, occasion, and following
Jgr report, and auggeaUou Monday
vivo,. d,y W,M 0UtoUy M
uSSaE""?. wUl ,,,ur Uin..
T'Vo or, three days will probably bo
set for the clean-up period, As usual,
tho city will hire teams to cover all
rittitH of town, hauling away from the
city limits tho traBh raked up on that
occasion.
Since "Clean-Up Day" was instituted
by the Women's Civic League a few
yeurs ago, it has been practiced every
year, with good reaulU.
BLY POSTPONES
DANCE FOR FORT
AFFAIR TO HAVE BEEN HELD FRI
DAY NIQHT IS PUT OFF A WEEK
TO ALLOW ALL CANDIDATES TO'perty Rebekah Lodge, with a general
no to POUT Reed time and get-together affair, in'
.1
tho city of Baltimore, at the Inn of the "'
Soven Stars, organized what is today, many FRIEND8 OF DECEASED AT.
known as the first lodge of the Inde
pendent Order of Odd Fellows of
America, and Wlldey is recognized as
tho founder of American Odd Fellow
ship.
Each year the recurrence of the day
is recognized by the different branches
ot tho order all over the country.
The members ot Klamath Lodge
No, 137 will celebrate the occasion to
night, assisted by members of Pros-
TEND SERVICE8 AT CHAPEL.
PALLBEARERS ARE MEMBERS
OF W. O. W.
Tho funeral ot the late William
Whitlock, who died Sunday evening,
was held today at the undertaking
chapel. The service was attended by
many friends ot the deceased.
Rev. Chas. T. Hurd, pastor ot the
eluding banquet, dancing, a short pro- Pi esbyterian church, conducted the
gram and other amusements. i borvlce, delivering an appropriate and
According to word received today Whllo the affair Is strictly an Odd comforting sermon, splendid musical
from Bly. the people in that section Fellows doings, it is customary for the selections were rendered by the Elks'
havo posponedthe candidates' moet- members of the Rebekah lodgo to in- quartet. The pallbearers were mem
Ing and ball which, was to have beenlvlte their husbands, and for the Odd bers of the local lodge of the Wood
held Friday night. The Fort Klamath FoIIowb to bring their wlvet, and tbo men of the World,
affair is the same evening, and the usual custom will hold good tonight ' There were many beautiful floral
uosponemont 'vu "made In order to , i tributes, both in aet pieces ana in bou-
make it possible1 for all of the candl- Supervisor Leaves.
dates to attend the Wood River dance. Supervisor M. L. Eriokson ot Crater
Tho Bly dance will be held the fol- National forest, left thla morning for
lowing Friday. There will bo a big headquarters at Medford, after a so
delegation ot Klamath Fall' people at Journ of several days in Klamath
Fort Klamath Friday night (county.
quote, tendered by those who knew Mr,
Whitlock in hit lifetime.
Miss Florence Chaplin, sister ot the
Marchioness of Londonderry, ha
served aa war nurse under four tags.
United Press Service
WASHINGTON. D. C, April 26.
The house committee on naval affaire
today reported a bill for two battle
ships, two battle cruisers and a 12,000,
000 appropriation for the naval avia
tion corps.
The bill also provides for thirty aub
marlnes, fifteen swift destroyers and
three fast scout cruisers. The total la
$217,500,000.
Leaders among the house-senate con
freres on the army bill expect to agree
upon a bill tor a regular army of 176,-
MEDFORD RAILROAD
."'.i WITJOP TOtVOTEIM-
The Medford city cetmeU baa
the proposal boa taaaj fartlt-
stractiom or a railroad ie tke.
Ledge oesmtry n to taw-tote
city.
The election will be held May
Bonds to the extent of ISO .MS wlH
Issued should the people ' favor
proposition.
That wild-burroria the Graaa Caa
yon of the Colorado are laenaatacr"
rapidly is the report from a ranger oa
the Tusayan national forest, who aays
that-the Uttle animals, in their aearea
for forage, are finding their way to the
top in such numbers as to coastltate
a nuisance. Acordlng to the forest
ranger,' there are already thoaaaaua
of the 'animals in the Oread Caayoa
from Supaii to the north of the Uttle-Colorado.
Mrs, George Harrison of Cleveland,
Ohio, runs a goltlub. '
000, a reduced federal reserve, with the
militia granted about all it demands.
Bonanza Meeting is Well
Attended by Candidates
The candidates' meeting held at Bo
nanza last night waa a most enjoyable
one, and was profitable to all. The
candidates were under the direct
charge ot "01" Hamaker, and were ex
hibited In order, and most ot them
were In order.
The meeting was well attended by
Klamath Falls and Bonanza voters,
and about the usual number ot candi
dates were present The meeting was
held in the new hotel, which Mrs. Etta
Kilgore gladly placed at the disposal
ot the visitors.
A little different arrangement than
at other meetings waa used, the can
didates and entertainers being placed
on the balcony overlooking the lobby,
with the audience in the lobby. Solos
by Mrs. Hall, Mrs. Harris, Professor
Burke, and a trio by the Muues Kil
gore, Harris and Hamaker were inter
posed between the speeches of 'the
candidates.
After the speeches, rofreehsseata
consisting ot sandwiches, salad, oake
coffee and ice cream were aerved, the
proeeeda going to the ltsmia Yeaag
Peopled Club, te all ttf waa laaliaed
from the supper, the club members aw
ing the work and Mrs. Kilgore donat
ing her dining room and help to the
cause. ,
This club Is the only oae ec Its na
ture in the county. It la a aeeaaJ eaab, J
with club rooms In the new fcaist
building. It la under the charge ef a 4
board ot directors elected by the oMs
members. It has for its purpose tat -entertaining
of the young people of Bo
nanza, particularly tho young mea sad '
the quarters are fitted for card plsyV
ing, chess, checkers sad pool No;
smoking, swearing or other than-gaa-'fe
tlemanly conduct Is allowed, aad.tas V
club Is self supporting. Jean- TsarSr
has the front part of the room reatod.1-"1
and acts aa renreaeatatlva of the atvV, tP
rectara. rollaetlnv tfca raalala k4 1 ',' wi!'.
After a lata how the iii.i-'mWlH!
?
ml
for the Falls, all expressing tbissistosiy"
" bwbs ausBiy fw waBW,at ,,
f S..V.
JW
...J.A,. -. l.A ' JaA '" '"P-
cumiuuuBitutu at mmmjMWW mvutiWm.j -jv
courteous treatmeat fresi ttk'mm.i
ment and the ecawslttos aB'iamaw. V"''
menu, tad gratified at Use isltalMii -,-and
taterost taJtsa'nso sfffW'
Iniasaa "2 &ttMLt)' . ,
sj3tcsi;
l
t . ";
!. St?
