i t i I
VOL LVSII. KO. "124
POPULATION 23,219
."ILV.ZSDAY, WAY 24, 1916
TEN PAGES 0 COLUMNS
FF.iCE TWO CZ'.TG
Th3 Bulletin Circulation in Kcrwlch is Dcubis That of Any Other lp:r, end Tctl Circulation, is tha Largest in Connecticut in Prcporfon to "the City's Pc
'm
MY
IMI t V 1
Germans Have Replied to the Terrific French Of
fensive in the Douaumont Region
FRENCH TENACIOUSLY HOLDING POSITIONS
Heavy Masses of German Troops Have Been Thrown
Atr&inst the Picked French Troops Each Attack Was
Preceded by Powerful Artillery Preparations Teutons
Gained a Footing in Trenches to the West of Le Mort
t Homme, But Were Immediately Driven Out by French
' Counter Attacks Rome Admits in Several Sections the
; Italians Have Fallen Back On Their Main Line of De-
' , fense British House of Commons Has Passed a Vote
of Credit Aggregating About $1,500,000,000, Which
s Brings Total War Credit to About $11,910,000,000.
. Cabled Paragraphs
German Traffic in. Baltic Restored.
Copenhagen, ' via London, May 23,
11 9.a n m Oerman traffic in the Bal
tic has been restored according to a
Mn.lmn riranatch to the "f ollUKen. '
Fixe German ' merchantmen says the
despatch, arrived in Swedish harbors
today escorted by a large- squauruu vi
German warships.
FEEDING OF CIVILIAN
POPULATION OF POLAND
Will be Subject of Conference- Be
tween Ambassador Gerard and Uer-
. man Chancellor.
Berlin via London. May 23. 8:40 p.
m .Tames W. Gerard, the American
ambassador , today received the Briti
ish counter-proposals to the plan sub
mitted bv Walter Hines Page, the
American ambassador to Great Brit
ain for the feding of civilian popula
tion of Poland by the American com
mission Mr. Gerard will lmmeai
atelv start negotiations with - Germany.
He expects to see the imperial chan
cellor on the subject.
Carranza Troops 10 Hurry naval
, In Bandit Hunt Appropriation Bill'
.
30,000 IN CHIHUAHUA AND ALONG j KITH EN IS TO ADVOCATE NIGHT
BIG BEND BORDER. SESSIONS OF HOUSE.
Condensed Telegrams
A severe earthquake shock w,
felt In Greece.
CHAIN OF EV1DEI1C!
til
i.. iii i i.
Four slight earthquake shocks oc
curred at Honolulu. ...
President -Poincare of France is vis
iting the Belgian front. f .
Cotton Is selling at Texaskana, Tex-
at rrom iz i-a to is cents a pound.
An order for 2.20O.0OO f utM has been
TO PURSUE VIGOROUSLY LIMIT GENERAL DEBATE I received by the American Locomotive I
Queen- Elizabeth of . Belgium - has
been decorated with the French War I
i Cross.
State Claims Conclusive Prcof of the Llurdcr
Wealthy Father-m-LawJohn E. Peck
cf V
COUNSEL ANNOUNCES ACCUSED WILL TESTIFY
More Than 97 Per Cent of the Texas Majority Leader' Says He Will Make
Guardmen Have Responded to Pres
ident Wilson's Call.
Washington, May 23. -Reports - to
No - Further Attempts to Reach a
Agreement -With' the Republicans.
Washington, May ' 23. A special
Shipments of fresh and cured meats
I from Chicago last week totalled 42,-
7O&.U00 pounds.
both th state and war denartments I Hie -to- provide for immediate consid
today further indicated plans of the I eration - of , the " naval appropriation
Funds raised in the United States
to aid Jews suffering in the war zones
! amount to $1,074,886. '
- The British acceptance of the pro
posals to feed the civilian population
of Poland by an American commission
must be - applied to that - portion -of
Poland in Austrian occupation and not
confined to that f Dart occupied ? by
Germany. Germany and Austria must
also agree to care properly forthe pop
ulations of Serbia, Albania and Montenegro.
SENSATIONAL CHARGES IN
WIRE TAPPING CASE
Made by -Mayor Mitchell Against Ro- I
man Catholic Charitable Institution.
trill with 'nikht sessions, a limited
period of general debate and a final
vote not later than JYiday or Sunday
of next week will be brought Into the
nouse iMonday. "- t -
Special Rule Will Be Resorted To.
Majority Leader Kitchln announced
By a vote of 69 to 37 the House
adopted an amendment to grant suf
frage to women of Porto Rico.
" Travelers arriving in Switzerland
from Germany report that - Foreign
Minister Von Jagow is about to resign.
Authorities in Italian Somaliland
The Germans have replied to the j
terrlflo French offensive in the Douau
mont region with assault after assault,
and the deadly combat northeast and
northwest of Verdun is still in prog
ress. Heavy masses of German troops
have been thrown against the picked
French troops, whose successful at
tacks won for them the greater por
tion of Fort Douaumont and consid
erable ground adjacent to the fort of
hhrh strategic value.
These newly captured positions the
French have tenaciously held. - Par
ticular mention is made by the French
war office of the maintenance of the
position in Fort Douaumont conquer
ed by the French Monday.
The fighting at that point is char
acterised by Paris as "a murderous
struggle," each, attack was preceded
by powerful artillery preparations.
Although they were hard held to the
northeast the Germans would not be
denied at Le Mort Homme and after
having been mowed down .by., the
French artillery and machine guns
with sanguinary losses in several at
tacks, finally gained . a --footing to
trenches to the west of this much-fougbt-for
position. Their tenure of
the trenches was short-lived, how
ever, for the French in a counter-attack
Immediately drove them out. .
Italy's first anniversary of her en
try Into the war found her troops on
at least one sector in southern Tyrol
forced back by the great Austrian of
fensive upon Italian soil and in gen
eral retirement to their main lines of
defence from the region south of Ro-
vere-to to the Val Sugana, southeast
of Trent.
Rome admits that between the Ab-
tico and Brenta rivers and in the Su
gana valley the Italians have fallen
back on their main lines of defence.
While Rome asserts " that the opera
tion was carried out in perfect order
after the Italians had repulsed Aus
tnan attacks agansit the .advanced
line, Vienna says that in the retreat
from iBorgo the Italians were harried
across the iborder by the Austrians.
That the Austrians have advanced as
far as the head of Lake Garda and
the Sarca region is indicated by the
Rome official communication, which
says that the Austrian troops assem
blages have been observed in the Riva
zone.
While along the Russian front the
usual bombardments have continued
almost exclusively, in the Pripet River
region the Russians, in an infantry
attack, drove the Germans across the
Vo'seluhu river and destroyed their
trenches.
In the coast region of Asiatic Tur
key, southwest of Treblzond, the Rus
sians have repulsed attempts by , the
Carranza government vigorously to
prosecute pursuit of Chihuahua out
law bands while the American forc
es remain comparatively -quiet.
30,000 Mexican Troops in Bandit Hunt
Closely following news of ' with-
carries the stipulation tnat tne reuei j . " ,"C7l ";ti I this plan tonight after a heated de-
I bate between democratic and repub
iCW, I li- , J ,1 fl Ji h. n0llo 0 tl. ..ToiTtO- M
Sibley and Major Langhorne, inform-1 ?Z " V"3.""" "6, I trl; "'7, "Irv tT " T
that General Obregon had ordered 7Z " Jti!L!Sz. Jrift. a
nn nnA ' J . -. ,n I Att TT at .,17UZV .1.1. iicir UUU1UUU I
u.uuy nuopa 10 engage in me mnai - .... . ... I u i at : .
hunt In nhlhiiBhila.jLT.il nlntiB- th "iuwi i up ine urau- - """"'Si.t""'''
W I 11 rt Mm- 'Uitnhin ncaX . V. . V. n wa
Big Send border. ' " s.
Delay in Diplomatic Action,
Delay in reopening diplomatic 'dls-1 force through by a special rule toy
cussibns over the question of Amerl-1 which Mr. Mann, maintained that an
can troops . remaining n Mexico also I unaersxanaing .naa oeen. reacnea.
was indicated in official despatches. 1 -.To Disregard Republicans,
iate aepanweni omciais saio. inai Bhm ma3ce no further attempt to
receipt of the new note being prepar- reach an arreement with the repub-
eu oy general rranza was noi. ex- Ucans," Miv Klitchin said tonight. "We
proea oeiore nai we. -ii was went over the whole erouad in con-
thought probable that retirement of ference and they agreed to the plan.
lne. f31? cena expeaiuon 10 American i thought it was entirely satisfactory
Sender of the Mysterious Telegram May be Divulged VT.c:i
State Calls "K. Adams.' Said to be a Woman Jcl-n
Cuniff, Special Of&cer Detailed to Watch Waite, Declares
That if Waite Was Insane When He KSled Hb '.Wife's
Parents, Imprisonment in the Tombs Has Had a Re
markable Effect ' on Him Defendant's Most Trying:
Ordeal Will Come Today, When His Wife, Her Brother
and the "Studio" Woman Will Take the Stand Against
'--Him.- - ; - ; 'f"
I
ure. Mr. 'Kitchin insisted that the re- I clan and botanist with the Nansen i
publicans had tacitally agreed to the I polar expedition in 1893-96, died at I
plan which democrats now want to I L-nristiama.
New Tork, May 23. -Confronted by
an unbroken chain of evidence which.
' w., R,i,, .. 1 the state claims, conclusively-proves
officially advised of the refusal of 116 J him guilty of the murder of his wealthy
Texas militiamen to be sworn in for j father-in-law, John E"Peck, of Grand
Doraer uuiy. .
New Tork,: May 23. Sensational
charges by Mayor John Purroy
Ugionists" in attempted jusOflcatlon of fought probable that retirement
conducted by a committee- appointed soil na presented a. new situation, mto thero because many of the repub-
K rLr.vc.mnr- Whitor. Intr, tkii of. i Connection With representations COn-I lWlno hart tnlrl mn that -ora woro an.
lairs of Roman Catholic Charitable templated in General Carranza's new lXious to get away from Washington
institutions in this city, were madejnote- ' - la week from Saturday. .-Of course I
"a-te this evening before the investiga-1 Sibley Expedition Was Not Recalled. I expected, them to object to the rule
lion committee headed bi' Senator Geo. I stnr nQv o 4nnirht tv,otlon the floor as a matter of policy but
F. Thompson. ; , Ithe Sibley-Langhorne expedition was did notJ:hink they would expert me
Alio mayors uiies uiuns were not withdrawn unon orders - , from I w uwuuua ow'uuaij.
Four trainmen were- seriously injur
ed when a Pennsylvania freight train
was derailed in the Caledonia tunnel,
Pennsylvania.
Lieut. Boelke, of the German Air
Corps, brought down his 18th enemy
aeroplane. The Kaiser promoted him
to be a captain.
prompted by the Indictment in Kings -Washington. Officials here believe
countr earner in tne day by John A. the American forces lose the ''hot
Kingsbury, city commissioner of train" of the bandits who raided Glen
chanties, and Wm. H. Hatchklss. spe- Springs and Bouquillas and retired
cial counsel for the chralties depart- because their officers thought no good
ment, for their part in the "tapping could De accomplished . by remaining
of the tappings. The chief witnesses across the border -
against them before the grand jury . . , .
were Catholic clergymen. Guardsmen May Be Courtmartialed.
Mayor Mitchel and Police Oommls- Whether the 116 national guards-
sioner Woods were witnesses before the men of Texas who refused to be mus-
jury but were not indicted although tered Into the federal service shall be
the presentment of the jury declared courtmartialed has not yet been de-
they merited "a most severe condem- termlned. Judge-Advocate-General
nation" if they approved wire tapping Crowder today withdrew an opinion
"merely to furnish counsel with In- I submitted to General Scott, chief of
In- objecting to the - plan to limit
consideration of the bill to' four or
five days : with night sessions, (Mr.
Mann said it "was not generous, fair
or decent." -
He asserted that Mn Kitchin told
Food prices in Berlin have reached
a new high level, and the people are
anxiously awaiting the appointment
him the president had Insisted the billol:'a Iood dictator.
formation in a law case or to gratify
curiosity. sr
MAN BELIEVED TO HAVE
BEEN STRANGLED TO DEATH
Turks to ' assume 'the offensive :-and
have also dislodged the - Ottoman J Body Thrown From Bridge to Track
lorces rrom posiiions on one or tne i 0f n. p. Roai Brewsters'
slopes of the Taurus Mountains. In I - . .
their advance -on Mosul, wlth Meso- I DanbuW. Conn.. Mav 23. The bodv
potamia their objective, the Russians of a man believed to have been
have occupied Zeibecht. - - I strangled to death with hslt then
iiic ormaii uuuso ui anunons uas rarriod ,o-ht miloe mhos. .
passed unanimously a vote of credit 1 Brewsters. N V hv autnmnhilo onrl
aggregaUng about Jl.BOOiWO.OOO. The thrown from a bridee on to the tracks
lorai creaus ootainea oy reat &nt- ot the Central New Eneland railroad.
am since tne war began are
raised to about $11,910,000,000.
thus
DELEGATES FROM 48 STATES
AT CONVENTION OF F. OF W. C.
Attended Reception Given by
and Mrs. Thomas A. Edison.
Mr.
staff, -which outlined the war depart
ment's authority -and rules of proce
dure. General Crowder desires to
consider whether the new army reor-
ganiatioi bill, just passed by con
gress. wiU aftect-the-eitnatian.--
The record of the Texas guardsmen
In responding to President Wilson's
call for border duty was defended to
day by Representative Slay den of
Texas. .,.-v- ' ' ' '
More Than 97 Per Cent. Responded
. "Less than three per cent, of the
guard nave-failed xo answer the sum
mons" he said, "and in view of the
fact that many of the men have fami
lies to support and other affairs which
might prevent their immediate : re
sponse, the proportion seems very
be passed before the republican con
vention which (Mr, - Kitchin denied.
: Solid Democratic Vote Expected,
The " indications are that a very I cutter Seneca reported.
soua aemocratio majority - win vote
for the bill as reported by the naval
committee with its provision for Ave
great - J2O,OOO,O00 battle , cruisers.
Dreadnought advocates are depending
on the senate to add about two bat
tleships to the program..
POSTOFFICE OFFICIALS .
ACCUSED OF LOBBYING.
New Tork, OMh-y 23. The thirteenth
biennial convention of the General
federation of Women's Clubs of
America, opened here today with 3,000
delegates and alternates present he
sides approximately 10,000 visitors, in
cluding the husbands - of - about a
thousand delegates. The first general
session of the convention will be held
tomorrow night and by that time, it
is expected, another 1,000 delegates
and alternates will have arrived.
The visitors to the city have been
escorted to hotels ' and boarding
houses toy reception committees, , as
sisted by Boy scouts.
The convention officially opened this
morning with brief meetings of the
department chairmen and the board
of directors.
Today was "New Jersey day," and
Immediately after the business meet
ings the board members, headed by
Mrs. Percy V. Penny backer, the pres
ident, and Mrs. William Jennings
Bryan, accompanied by more than 600
delegates, left in special trains for
Orange, N. J., to attend- a' reception
given by Thomas A. 'Edison and Mrst
Edison, one of the leading club wom
en of her state.
The (Edison home could not accom
modate the throng and many of the
visitors stood outside In the rain
waiting to be presented. After the
' reception the Inventor delivered a
brief address on suffrage and re
paredness. When he had finished, the
guests sang; The Btar Spangled Ban
ner.
It was officially announced tonight
that delegations are here - irom s
states.
HEARTY SUPPORT TO
CHURCH PENSION FUND
Voted at Annual Meeting of Church
7 ; Club of Connecticut,;
Merlden, Conn., May S3. A hearty
BUDDort to the church pension fund
was voted at the annual meeting of
the Church Club of Connecticut held
. at the Highland Country Club this
evening. This Club is composed of
lay -members of the Episcopal
churches of Connecticut and about
10 were present at the meeting. Fol
lowing are the officers elected:
President, E. A. Harrlman, New
Haven: vice presidents, William C
Pease of Hartford and 'Alfred , Gilder
s4eeve of GUdersleeve; secretary,
. Charles F. Chase of New Britain:
treasurer, Charles T. Cornwall' of INew
Haven: executive committee, com
prising officers and G. IB. Buckley, of
Hartford; . B. H. Hemlnway, Water -burv:
J. K. Smith. Waterbury: S. W.
Randal. Kockvllle, and. H. W. Snow,
New Haven. .
Baptist Disapproval of Divorce.
(Minneapolis, May 23. The divorce
Question was the subject of sharp de
tate at today's session of the (Northern
lioptist convention, but " finally - was
disposed of by the adoption of a reso
lutJoa disapproving! the action of mln
itpr who fTtcta.te'at"ttie marriage of
. divorced persona. .
was tonight positively, identified as
Mohammed Jameel of this city. Ja
meel, who was 33 years old and slnsrle.
was employed in a . furniture factory I small to me.'
and considered well to do. He had! Mr. Slaydon : produced figures . to
not been seen since Mondav morn in cr. 1 sliow that the. membership of the
The police are workins on the theorv I guard had increased in Texas with the
Resolution for a Committee of Inauiry I that he was murdered during a quarrel I last five months and quoted General
no clues to his assailants. ; I Texas guardsmen had acquitted .them-
An autopsy on the body at Brewster I selves creditably in the Mexican sit-
tonight disclosed that the small bones uation. r .
in his neck were broken, probably by I Railroad StriHes Settled.
nanus at nrst ana then later by ,hts I Settlement of the railroad-strike In
"w"- oeii. Apparently, ix was tne in- 1 MitTipjin dist.T-ra wan r
tent or nis murderers to throw the 1 nnrtu i stta itnnrtmn uhHiwq
The resolution is an outgrowth of a L"e 1C? ln "ains Renewed activity , of bandits near
Introduced in House,
Washington, May 23. Postmaster
General 'Burleson ' and his assistants'
axe charged with having organized a
postomce lobby in a resolution Intro
aucea today by Representative Good of
iowa directing a committee Inquiry.
flood of telegrams and letters from ",'v, r"n tZl er "I,-" nen"1 0
postmasters and others urging the re- IfiS. 5Und $?WfT'' J1
.,11 wrrnlafoundy an
rural rree aeiivery routes.
The resolution charees that exten
slon of rural routes has denied many
patrons an emcient mail service, that
political motives were back of the con
soiidation of the routes and that old I Mayor
ana vaiuaDie rural carriers cave oeen
dismissed. It says that pending
araenuraems to tne postomce Bill "llm- Middletnwn
i Acapulco on the West Mexican coast
was reported.
MEETING OF CONN. DEEPER
' 0 WATERWAYS ASSOCIATION
BRYAN AS PROHIBITION
PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEE
The true shape of the earth
.walts accurate 'determination. .
still
E. G. Rogers of New London
One of the Vice Presidents. .
his aiTed h' .V" r c.laon- at "sannual meeting here to-
. t..v..ii. i nr. v. dlsr.uSRPd rnntino hnglnMo -o.
'.! ' I fairs, listened to addreswa trtolr,un I of the Methodist Episcopal church at
PENNSYLVANIA STEEL CO. I to lmnrovinir the witenmn u I Saratoga Springs in which he was
INJUNCTION DISMISSED stat. partook of a Connecticut River quoteo as oeciarmg tnat ne naa apom
11L U" Shad dinner and elected officers for reached Point wnere he could no
Sale of Control to Bethlehem
Corporation Upheld.
Others Mentioned Are Sulzer, Foss,
Hanley ad Hobson,
Chicago, May 23. If he will conselt
to make the race, William Jennings
Bryan may be selected as the candi
date for president of the prohibition
party. - Recent : statements - of Mr.
Bryan before the general conference
eii I next year as-roiiows:
x-ic&iueni.. intujt in. jonrraon, , rsew
Britain: vice presidents. Malor Sam
uel Russell, , Jr., , Middletown; Mayor
ju. u. Kogws, new ijonaon: - T". h.
Henry B.
Newark. N. J.. Mav 23. Thn uira.
",rf uZ.ra" - Kingsbury. Bridgeportr
Tr,r,.i,i,roi ai a." it. I Sargent New Haven: secretarv-treas-
faetnienem steel corporation for 31,- " MoT 'Tv w"tl-' l"'
n,iiu waB aismissea Here today by t V v x l , .,' V . ,UIU
Judge Rellsban. The compiairlant in about 100, made the trip to this
the case was C. H. Venner - I .y "y er irom new Haven.
The temporary in function
ing the sale of the Pennsylvania Steel
company, ootained by Venner, was dis
missed and the court denied applica
tion ior a permanent stay.
M. Blonde!, M mister to
will be succeeded by Col De
Aulaire, now Adjutant to the Resident
General of Morocco.
Rapids, Mich., Dr. Arthur Warren
Waite, the young New Tork dentist,
will himself go on ttoe witness stand in
an effort to save himself from death in
the electric chair. This decision wa
reached tonight by his counsel at the
end of the second day of his trial.
Waited Wife Will Testify Today,
The defendant's most trying ordeal
probably will come tomorrow, when
his wife. Mrs. Clara Peck Waite, her
Rumania, I brother, Percy Peck, and Mrs. Margaret
tsaint I Horton, with Whom waite snarea a
"studio" in a frotel here, will take the
stand against him. Mrs. Horton, ac
companied by her huehand, Harry M.
Korton, and her sister, was in court
today, expecting to be called.
Mystery of Telegram May Be Divulged.
It also is expected that the mystery
tl. T in , I surrounding the identity of the person
are remarkably -free from ice this b nt a te,eg S?rJ?
jo., vot. icnr.9 ui v- uuow 6UCMU i , , . J !f1. t . on
UUIICU UI UrtUlU U1&1115 us
autopsy be held on the body, will be
e Ait.. - d I flisciosefl tomorrow. I'ne xeiesrain
Iowa, was unopposed on the Republi- Pve, nrst intimation -to mex-ecK
can presidential ballot in South la- fa5?!1'?tnat A1ere wasythln rons-.-
i I District Attorney Edward.. Swann
- 'lrT - steadfastly has refused to divulge ttoe
Anniversary Week, marking the 91st I Identity of thesender of the telegram,
annual gathering of the American Un- 1
itarian Association and aUied organr
RUB LEE As. VICTIM ;OF . -
- ' SENATORIAL 7 COURTESY
I 1 I TL - I.! 1 1 I m . I
M . - - . I - HiXO pT-WnS VC( O IVlllBQ 1UU1 I
"r " w- i seriously injured- in a windstorm
but In announcing a list - of the wit
nesses who would he called; by the
state he Included, the name of IC Ad-
Refusal to Confirm Nomination.
Author is a Woman.
It is said that the mysterious person
Washington, May 23. 'Administra
tion efforts to have the senate recon
sider its refusal to confirm the nomi-
which demolished a dozen houses at a I is a woman who lives outside ,thls state
mining camp near Birmingham, Ala. I and that he exacted a promise from
- . I the district attorney not to disclose, ner
A constitutional amendment for Fed- I real name until he was ready for her
era! " prohibition was endorsed by the I to appear at the trial and testify.
nation of George Rublee of New I Cumberland Presbyterian church at its
Hampshire as a member of the Fed
eral Trade Commission, failed late to
day by a tie vote 38 to 38. A
This ends the fight to keep Mr.
Rublee on the- commission, where he 1 placed on exhibition at the annual
86th general assembly at Birmingham,
Ala.
- Jewelry valued at $1,000,000 was
has been serving for fifteen months.
He probaMy- will continue in office
under President Wilson's recess ap
pointment 'until near the end of this
session of - congress, although he can
draw no salary for either past or fu
ture service.
Senatorial courtesy blocked confir
mation of the nomination. The nomi
nee's ability, or integrity were not
questioned, hut Senator Gallinger, the
republican- leaden, - opposed him on
convention of the New Tork State Re
tail Jewelers' Association at Buffalo,
N. T. - - .
Patrolman John Gallagher of Jer
sey City accidentally shot and killed
himself at his home while transf er
inug his revolver from one coat to
another. ,
Thus far the only testimony which
in any manner could be regarded as
throwin gany light on the identity of
K. Adams" was given today by Dr.
Jacob B. Cornell and his nephew, Ar
thur C. Swinton, both of Somerville,
N. J., who declared that Waite's ac
tions on the morning or Mr. -fecu s
death were most unusual.
- Saw Waite With Mrs. Horton.
Swinton asserted that a short time
previously, while he and his mother,
and sister were dining in the hotel
vfcere Waite since has admitted he had
his "studio," they saw Waite with Mrs.
Horton. Waite, he added, tried to
avoid them, but, seeing that a meeting
was unavoidable, he (Waite) remarked
that (Mrs. Horton was a nurse who was
assisting him in an operation at a hos
pital. Curative Effects of Tombs.
If Waite was insane when the ldTleS
his wife's parents, first the aged KrsJ
Peek, by inoculating her with deadiy,
disease germs, ana men mr. -recK, s
his counsel have Intimated tfeey will
try to prove, the- young destine' s im
prisonment in the Tombs has had a
remarkable curative- effect on him, in
the opinion of John Cuniff. The lattfsr.'
a special officer detailed to the district
attorney's . office, said he called tm
Waite about a week -after the -dentist
was taken to the Tombs.
"If a man has made a mistake, he i
quoted Waite as saving, "this men- j
ing the Tombs) is a mighty good place 1
for him, even if be has to remain con- J
fined for twenty years. He would havaj !
a chance here to think things over. . 1
Asked Garage Owners to Have Check I
' - Cashed. -
Another witness who testified Just" I
before the trial was adjourned for tbs i
day was Qustave Cimiotti, owner of a j
garage where Waite kept hts antomo J
bile. . Cimiotti asserted that Walter I
came to him March 20, after suspicion' i
had been directed against him, r.v. i i
asked -Cimiotti -to. go to . bank j
door and cash a check for fclra fori
$9,300. The check was drawn to t.-.e J
order of the garage owner. J
Waite 'Diddn't Want to Draw Money, j
"Waite told me," said the witness,' j
"that he ; didn't want to draw any J
money from the bank himself, because j
he was having some family trouble, f
and he didn't care to be seen getting
money from that particular bank. j
Eugene Kane, who embalmed Mr.
Peck's body, testified earlier in the
day that Waite had given him $9,064
and subsequently had requested tlai
"to nut some arsenic in his embalming
fluid and send It to the district attorney."-
This. was after the autopsy on
Mr. Peck's body had disclosed tha
presence of large quantities of arser.i o
in his vital organs. ,
William Brandt, treasurer of the
A TnpriMn Rnretv n. MtAnhA.1 himsolf
the ground that he had been person- I at the New York office of tl.e comnanv.
ally obnoxious in opposing him " for 1 and was rused to the hospitsi in a se-
re-eiection. xoaays. action was on a I rious condition.
motion by senator Ho) lis to reconsider
the vote by which - the senate last! The Supreme Court held to be un
week rejected the nomination, 42 to I constitutional a Wisconsin law revok-
36. 1 ing charters of foreign corpoiations
Thirty-three democratic and - five I which remove cases from the State to
republican senators voted, for the re- I the Federal courts.
consideration and. twenty-eignt re-1
publican and ten democratic senators
voted against It.
CONTROVERSY AMONG IRISH
MEMBERS OFaCOMMONS
FAILS TO GET WIDOW'S
SHARE OF STRATTON ESTATE
Over Treatment of Prisoners Arrested
During Recent Revolt,
London. May 23,N3.7 p. m. A series
of questions to the cabinet ministers
with regard to the treatment of pris
oners arrested during the revolt in
Ireland gave 1 rise to a controversy
among the Irish- members in the
house of commons this afternoons
Harold J. Tennant under-secretary
of state for war, replied to Laurence
EXTENSION OF NOTES -
REQUESTED BY B. & M.
With Interest Discounted at the Rate
of 6 Per Cent, a Year.
Prospects are for a quick settlement
fo the strike of 4,000 union clothing ..-TSr . .TU -?
workers at Boston, who went out yvs- were" unconormble but that thai
o.x "u"""s I was not the case now. when Timothy
city by steamer from New
wma ana tide were high . and the
steamer was three hours late , in
docking here. A delegation was pres
ent from Springfield,- Mass.
longer follow a political party who re
fuser to endorse national prohibition
were discussed They expressed the
belief that of the national democratic
convention at St. Louis declined to
adopt a National prohibition plank in
its platform Mr. Bryan might consent.
Other candidates for president being
sonsidered by the party leaders' are
Former - Governor William Sulzer, of
New York; Former Governor Eugene
N. Foss of ' Massachusetts; Former
Governor Hanley of Inianan and Rich
mond P. Hobson of Alabama. - v
The convention promises to be most
Important in the history of the party
In the opinion of the leaders.
A referendum vote of the commit
hours and more pay.
Sheriff 8. N. Hailey of Elbert Co,
; was shot and killed in the court hause
at Elberton, Ga, by Arnold ' Worley. '
-r-. l ir... r a -i-.r x . I . 4
cosion. iua.BH iiy io. uuctiuia i heme- ronirh with n. npsrn tvrlsoner.
of the Boston and Main Railroad com- I - :
pany today voted to request an ex- I President Wilson was asked by Gen.
tension or tne companjrs notes irora i e. Harvey, commissioner of Na
Juhe 2 to July 17 Of this year, With I tlona!. nnnrrl in th District of rVilnm-
interest discounted at the rate of six bla, to is8Ue a statement calling on the rLid iwS of his con
nttr fttrtt a tmt This was decided I .,j,n t.,n th. lsTotir,.,! I ne'" prison ana saw some oi nia oun
r- . rf ; w uiij bu b - ivuiuu s,uw - mbvuw i
Healy, nationalist member for Cork,
remarked
Is there a single word that you
are getting from Dublin that is not
false?"
John O'Connor, known as Xong
John," who took a prominent part in
some Irish scrimmages on the floor
of the house of commons In the home
rule controversy of the 80s. said that
yesterday he had visited the Wane
upon, it .was stated, to order to give I Guard.
tne reorganization comnutieo ui uio
road more time to complete - their
Venner"s counsel had contended that AMERICAN DOLLAR STRONGER
in Btue waa a ruse to evaae tne antl- I ON SCANDINAVIAN Rnnsee I ton la inv heinir taken hv mail to sr.
lect a temporary csunnan lur tne
r- t n r ftj -
pians. curing i ua-y u 'Vf New York Central Lines West, an- which could not be heard and O'Con
or tne company met a committee oi nounced that A. s. ingaUs, general nor walked from his seat to the one
lire u.ra.w x,Cw V" superintendent of third district, Is next to Healy's. saying:
made manager of the lines west oi I "What's that yon say?"
Healy made no reply and O'Connor's
colleagues forced 1 him back into his
Timothy Healy, Irish member of I own seat.
Parliament, created an uproar in the
House of Commons' during debate on
the- Irish situation by. shouting, "We
trust laws.
The court -directed the eteel comnanir I u.j n , m r- ..
. w VAw,vwv .V UUI.lUiUlj
venner ior any aamages.
venner gave notice of an appeal. He
holds twenty-four shares of the Penn
sylvania Steel company's comn
stock.
mal 3.73.
Stockholm, May 23. via London. 7.42
P. m. The American dollar and the
convention. Two candidates being
considered are W. P. Ferguson, of
j Franklin, Pa,, and Dnalel A. Poling of
Boston. -
The convention this year will oon-
Engllsh pound have at last shown 6ist f 1i2f. delesates ana an equal
some Strenertll on Scandinavian h,... numucr ui Biicumira.
NEW WOMAN'S PARTY FOR
es. The fall of these two exchanges,
I which seemed to go down hand - In
PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN, nana, was definitely checked - last
: : , I week after the dollar had touched s 97
Movement Launched by Congressional frm the normal 3.73. and the pound
Union of Chicago. - wSti a irom i"6 normal
- j 18.20. The dollar hung for several
uin .nk. , I nays at tnis low level, then inmnpd tn
party will go Into the -presidential l28 nd,todlay, tJu,ted, at 3-30. The
campaign with ?loo,000 to its crcGit, if I , t i7bc q ot
a movement tauncnea toaay -by . the I
ri;V?-ar- BOY KILLED WHILE RIDING
sands to finance the womenjs fight to ON HANDLE BARS OF BICYCLE
secure the passage of theSdsan B.I '"
Anthony amendment was made by Miss Struck in Hartford by a Truck Driven
Alice '.faui, iiaiKmai cnairnmn or tne
union, at convention headquarters to
day. The campaign was launched by
a committee of suffragists. Contribu
tions amounting to $2,210 toave been
secured as a starter, it was announced.
NEW YORK IS NOW
WORLD'S BUSIEST PORT
Last Year Exceeded by $200,000 Lon-
don's Import and Export Figures.
v Washington. May 28 War trade
has made New York within the last
year the world's busiest port The
American city has exceeded" by R200.-
000,000 London's import ' and export
figures. c . r '
New York's combined 1915 exports
and imiiDorts. figures prepared at the
department of commerce today, show a
total of $2,125,500,000. Rx ports are put
at Sl.l94.ooo.Oflo. ana imports at sasj.
000,000. London imports were larger
at $,232,000,000 but her exports
amounted to only $696,000,000.
.Other ports in. the. order of their
Importance are: Hamburg, Antwerp,
Liverpool, Marseilles and Havre.
when I . -. -; . '
Wi Ham F.. DaiIey,..wbo wa j made
chief of the Brockton : fire department
Mondav nic-ht. assisted In rescuing a
vasement juat prior 10 tne ouioreax 01 ' DroKen. . xne anver or tne truck was 'family of seven persons wnen ne an
the recent retbellion. ..:,, .not arrested. -'- swered his first alarm yesterday.
by A. Calugh of Stafford.
Hartford. May 23. Joseph F. Kiltv.
aged 10, was run over and instantly
killed by a three ton automobile truck
driven by A. Calugh of Stafford here
late tody. The boy was riding on
the handle bars of a. bicycle driven
k Another Arrest for -Irish Outbreak,
Tralee. via . London. May 23. 8.48 p. I by his chumb. John Quinn.
m. Another arrest made here today is Quinn became . confused and the truck
believed to have been made in connec. I struck -the bicycle. Quinn escaped
tlon Willi the landing of Sir Roger I with minor-hrts. Kilty's neck was
stituents interned there who requested
him to make public the fact that they
were being well treated.
Mr. Healy. made some remark
Case of Mrs. 'Sophie Gertrude Chel-
lew Thrown Out of Court.
Colorado Springs, Cok., May 23.
The case of Mrs. Sophie tiertruoa
Chellew suing the estate of the late
Winfield 6. Stratton, millionaire mm-a
ing man, was thrown out today in the J
district court on the ground that Mrs.l
Chellew- is not the widow of Strat-ij
ton as alleged. -Mrs. Chellew based 1
her claim to the widow's share of they
estate upon an alleged marriage toJ
Stratton . when he was a penniless ?
Texas cowboy. 8
Mrs. Chellew further declared, tnat 1
Stratton left her and she was after-i
ward informed that he had been kill-1
ed by Indians. Believing him dead
she married again.
Tears later, her complaint set forth,
she met Stratton in Leadville, Colo.,
and Stratton and then a millionaire,
acknowledged their marriage, gave
her some money and promised tier,
half . his estate by will.
Stratton's fortune was founded up
on his Cisco very of the famous Inde
pendence (Mine at Cripple Creek. At
his death the estate was estimated atl
six millions.
Haven and Hartford railroad which
holds shares of Boston and Maine I jjufaio.
stocK tnrougn tne meuium ui tins xu
ton Railroad Holding company. The
trustees explained the various sug
gestions that have been made to - re
oragnize the Boston and Maine, and
later the New Haven company pre-
IJf ijxc- 1 . , . . . . .
sented the subject at ' the . regular J"1"?. Dl"u
meeting of the company's directors for!""" -
SUIT TO COMPEL UNITED
STATES TO REFUND $100,000
their information.
DIVIDED CONTROL OF
With twe conventions threatened-
one the regular and the other a se
cessionist the Republicans of Texas
Brought by Ten Trust Companies in
Federal Court at New York.
' New York, May 23.-i-Ten trust com
BRITISH AIR SERVICE I met at FortWoi to select delegates I ?i!?lf8vJ?sn,, 2'
Disapproved of by Baron Montagu 1 vention will be anti-Rosevelt.
in House of Commons. : j
London, Mav 23, 8.0 p. m. Baron
Montagu of Beaulleii,- former vice
chairman of the joint naval and mili
tary board. In the house today moved
a resolution complaining agamst ui
vided control of the 1 nation's air
srenrlcft. ' The debate which fcVowed
and which was adourned until tomor-J
row -when Earl Curson or Jieaicston,
Lord Privy Seal - will speak, was
considered noticeable' before the maid
en speech of the Baron- jsortnelitie,
who had been a silent member of the
house of lords fori a -. decads.i The
chief points In Baron- - NorthclifCe's
speech were the expressed belief that
the new air board must develop into
an air ministry, that there was heed
for encouraging inventors and manu
facturers that 1 the government would
be placed in tho way of getting- all the
rermired air craft and thiA there
should be tmely training of an ade
quate number of air pilots. : ' " -
. Annie Moortey " of BfJdsrport, C5
xt-arn old. a widow. fri:!ed herself by
hanging last evening in her home. She
had been sick. -
court here today to compel the Unit
ed States to refund about $100,000 they
have paid as special war taxes im
posed in October, 1914. The tax was
collected as. the result of a ruling by
a , government official - classing - the
banking
The Progressive party of Texas, in
state convention at Waco, Tex., con
demned the policies of the Wilson ad- I .-fi.nu. -nth th
nUnistration. commended the principles institutions and assessing them about
ui v...i- one dollar a thousand on their sur
nesa, w upaucu w. xvWlfc. p, camta, and undivided profits.
The trust comnanies contend that
One nundred passengers ana la 01 1 such funds as thev use for title in
the crew of the Southern Pacific liner I surance, trust and executor business
Proteus, were vaccinated, and the ship I and mortgages should a exempt from
fumigated on its arrival at New Tork I tin is tax. Thev tlad exnerta on tha
from New Orleans, when a passenger I witness stand to show that little of
was iouna sunenng irom smaupoi. : 1 their business is taxable.
Should the trust companies win the
Ambassador Page at London cabled I action, the government may be com
the State Department that he had I pelled to refund more than -1500,000,
been officially advised that the death I collected under protest from trust
sentence of Jeremiah C. , Lynch, I companies throughout the countrj
American convicted 01 participation in
the Irish-rebellion, had been changed 1 Movements of Steamships.
to ten years imprisonment. 1 Rotterdam, Mav VI. Arrived
steamer Rvndam. New York.
Nearly 2,300. station employes on the I Gibraltar. Mav 20. Sailed: Steamer
Boston and Maine Railroad, members I Giuseppe Verdi, (from Genoa) New
of the lirotnernooa 01 Kailroaa Ktfttion I l ork.
Employes, last night began ballottlng I .Bordeaux, May 21. Sailed: Steam
on tee question of striking to enfcnceler Chicago, New York.
their demands ior a wage increase ot . -New York, May 23. Sailed: Steam
15 per cent, and an eight hour day. er Regina D'ltalia, Genoa.
r !;-. .,- - . . -a-.. 1. 11 .- '
NOTE TO GREAT BRITAIN
TO BE CABLED TODAY
Protesting Against Interference With
Neutral Mails.
Washington. May t. A completed?
new draft of the note to Great Erit-1
ain protesting against . interference!
with neutral mails was sent to the
state department today by President
Wilson for transmission to JLoncion. it
probably will go forward tomorrow,
when Secretary Lansing, who has
been 111 for several days, returns to
his desk. The secretary had planned
to sign the note at his home so that
it might be cabled tonight, but de
cided late this afternoon to wait un
til tomorrow.
CHICAGO TEACHERS MAY
BELONG TO FEDERATION,
Injunction Issued for Board ef Edu-
cation Has Been Dissolved.
Chicago, May 23. A permanent in
junction against the enforcement ot -so-called
Loeb rule which won id - -hibit
any teacher in the Chicago p
schools from- belonging to the Cr..
Teachers' federation as king as it t
affiliated with the Chicago Fed-i
of Labor was Issued in the circu!; c
here today. The board of e.l :
will appeal to tfae supreme co'.rt.
Loeb rule was passed by the lx ,.
education last September.
New German War Lea-.
Copenhagen, via London, -. :
11.04 p. m. 'The German rc-"-according
to the Voss;.; . j i
(Berlin), early in June wid j-rr
bill for a new war loan of ten -marks.
