What to Wear
And How to IV<cat* It?On I he
Woman's Page Daily
66th YEAR
VOI.UHK 06
M.'MHHIt 144
RICHMOND
Business Men
Rely on the Real Estate and
Court News in The T.-D.
FOURTEEN PAGES.
I'KU ?CLOUDY
PRICE, TWO CENTS.
Carranza Sends 30,000 Soldiers
to Region South of
Border.
MOVEMENT NOW IN PROGRESS
Washington Expects Further De
lay in Dispatch of Note by
First Chief.
Immediate Withdrawal
of Troops Demanded
(By International Xrw* Service.)
MKXICO CITY. .Mux A note
from the de fnctn cnvrrnnif ill of
Mcili-n to tlie government of Ihf
I'niteil Mntrn demanding the i III?
mediate iillhilruuiil of the Amrr
Irnn troop* from Mcxlro ivn? illn
patclied fo \\ nxliliiKlnii to-day.
The notr Htntrs (lint tlie Mexican
people 1)0 not x*nnt H*r I < Ii the
lnlie<l Malm, lint that they are
ready for war rnther than to lm\e
tlirlr nnflonnl honor anil mivrrrlKnly
trampled upon.
The Mexican no vernnienl Im I n -
formed, t li *? note ntuteM, that more
American troops continue to crmn
tlir ltor<ler. The commit a lent Inn <l<?
clftrrn that the Mexican people look
upon thin movement n* in ore Ihan
a mere punitive expedition nnd a*
n \lolotlnn of nntloaal sovcrel trn t j.
Tlie note na? Kent fo \\ nnhlncton
t lilw morning hv npcelal mewHcnKer.
WASHINGTON. May i'3?Ili-ports to
both th?- State nnd "War departments
to-day further indicated plan* of the
Carrania povurtiinont to prosecute
vigorously pursuit <? f n-.thuahua out
law hands while the American forces
remain comparatively o'>ie-erent.
C!osely fo)io\?inr news of with
drawal from Mex S??'? <?f the ond
American punitive expedition sent from
Boqulllas, Te\ . information rea? hod
the State department that General
Obregon had ordered 30.00^ troops to
engage in the bandit hunt In Chihuahu*
and alone the Big Bend border.
MAY IIKliAV KL'HTIIKIt
DIPLOMATIC DIS ft* 8 S10 \ S
I'flay In reopening diplomatic dls
eussioits over the question of Ameri
can troops remaining In Mexico also
was indicated In official dispatches.
State department officials said that
receipt of the new note he.lnc prepared
by General Oarransu was not expected
before next week. It was thought
prohalile that retirement of the Big
Rend expedition to Ameri-.tn soil had
presented a new situation to he dealt
with In General Carranata's new note.
Secretary Baker said to-night that
the Slbley-Langhorne expedition was
not withdrawn upon orders from Wi.sh
Incton Officials here believe th*
American forces lost the "hot trail" of
the handlts, who raided Glenn Springs
and Boqulllas. and retired because their
officers thought no good could be ac
complished by remaining across the
border.
Whether 'he 11*' national guardsmen
of Texas who refused to be mustered
into the Federal service shall he court
martialed has not yet been determined
Juilpe-Advocare-General Crowder to
day withdrew an opinion submitted to
General Scott, chief of staff, which out
lined the War department's authority
nnd rules of procedure. General
r"rowd?r desire. 1 to .onsiiUr whether
? the new army reorganization bill, just
passed by Congress, will -itTeet the
situation.
IIE( Dltt) OK t.l V Itll.NMi:V
DKKKMIKll BY SI.aYIJRN
The record of the Texas uuardsmen
In responding to President Wilson's
call for border duty was defended to
day by Representative Slayden. of
Texas.
"I,ess than 3 per cent of the guard
have failed to answer the summons,'.'
he said, "and. in view of the fact that
many of the men have families to sup
port and other nffairs which might
prevent their immediate response, the
proportion seems very small to me."
J Mr Slayden quoted Mr. Kuns'on as
saying that he thought the Texas
guards had acquitted themselves
creditably In the Mexican situation.
Settlement of the railroad strike in
several Mexican districts was reported
in State Department advices. Trains
lit Monterey were reported operating as
usual, as well as some mines, smelters
and other Industrial plants.
Renewed activity of bandits near
Acapulco, on the "West Mexican coast,
?mis reported.
NOTE TO ENGLAND TO-DAY
Secretary l.nnNlng Will Sign Protest
Agalnnl Interference With
.Neutral Mall*.
WASHINGTON', I?. C\. May 23.?A
completed draft of the new note to
tireat Britain protesting against inter
ference with neutral m&ils was sent to
the. State Department to-day by l^resl
dent Wilson for transmission to Lon
don. It probably will go forward to
morrow, when Secretary I.anslng, who
has been ill for several days, returns
to his desk. The secretary had planned
to sign the note at his home, so that
it might he cabled to-night, hut de
cided late this afternoon to wait until
tu-morrow.
SESSION LESS THAN HOUR
Te\n* Democratic Convention Names
Permanent Committer* nnil Ad
journal Until To-Dny.
SAN ANTONIO. TIOX., May 23.? Pro
eoedincs in the State Democratic Con
vention. which opened here to-day,
Vero brought to a sudden halt after
iw fifty-flve-mlnute session, when the
permanent committees were announced
and adjournment taken until to-mor
row,
Bryan Looming Up
as "Dry Candidate '
He May Be Selected by Prohi
bition Party to Make Racc
for Presidency.
CHICAGO, May 23?if he will con
sent to make the racc, William Jen
nings Bryan may be selected as its
ean?Jirlate fur President by the Prohi
bition party. Itecent statements of
Mr Bryan before the General Confer
ence of the MelhodiHt Episcopal
Church at Saratoga Springs. In which
he was quoted as declaring that he
had about reached the point where he
could no longer follow a political party
which refused to indorse national pro
hibit non, were discussed by Prohibition
party leaders here to-day. They ex
pressed the belief that if the Demo
cratic National Convention at St. Louis
declined to adopt a national prohibition
plank in itH platform, .Mr. Bryan
might consent to become the candidate
of the Prohibition party for I'resident.
The Prohibition National Convention
will be held at St. Paul July 19 to 22,
and will be preceded by a rally in the
Interest of the movement to obtain
pledges from 5.000,001 citizens to vote
only for candidates for public office
who favor national prohibition.
Other candidates' for President being
considered by the party leaders are:
former Governor Sulzer, of New York?
former Governor Foss, of Massa
chusetts; former Governor Hanley, of
Indiana; General Miles, of Washington,
I' ant! Kichard P. Hobson, of
Alalia ma.
The convention promises to be the
most important in the history of the
party, in the opinion of the leaders.
'?ne suggestion that may come before
the convention involves the entire re
organization of the party under a new
name. A referendum vote of the
executive committee is now being
taken by mall tf> select a temporary
chairman for (he convention The
two candidates beinij considered are
W. P F. Ferguson, of Franklin. Pa.,
and I'aniel A. Poling, of Boston.
The convention this year will con
sist of 1,254 delegates and an equal
number of alternates.
COUNTERPROPOSALS MADE
i <irejit Britain Outlines Plan for Keed
Intr Civilian Population In
Poland.
i R Kit LI N, May i'3 (via London).?
Ambassador Gerard to-day received the
; Driti.-*h counterproposal to the plan
submitted by Walter Hines Page, the
American ambassador to Great Britain,
I for the feeding of the civilian popula
I tion of Poland by the American com
mission. Mr. Gerard will immediately
! start negotiations with Germany. He
i experts to see the Imperial Chancellor*
. 'in the subject as a preliminary to
! opening discussion with the department
! competent to deal with the situation.
The British acceptance of *ie pro
' posuls to feed the civilian population
i of Poland by an American commission
carries the stipulation that the relief
must be applied to that portion of
1 Poland in Austrian occupation, and not
confined to that part occupied by Ger
many Germany and Austria also must
agr??. properly to care for the popula
tions of Siberia, Albania and Monte
negro
TONNAGE TAX PROPOSED
mil Would Mlike Rate* Prohibitive for
l-'oreljrn-llullt and Owned
Merchantmen.
WASHINGTON*, p. C.. May 23.?A
tonnage-tax plan to build up the
American merchant marine with pro
hibitive rates assessed against foreign
built and owned merchantmen is pro
posed in a bill introduced to-day by
Senator Galllnger, minority leader, as
a counterproposal to the adminlstra
J lion s measure. Ten per cent discrinii
| natinff fluty against Imports in foreign
, bottoms also would l.e imposed.
The hill proposes tbat a tax of 3
cents a ton, not to exceed 15 cents a
ton during any one year, be Imposed
j on inbound vessels from ports in the
; Western Hemisphere, where the ships
I are American-built and owned; f> cents
j a ten and not to exceed 30 cents a
| y ear on similar vessels from other
j ports; 30 cents a ton on American-built
j craft under foreign flags and 50 cents
i a ton oil all others.
.
DANGER ZONE DESCRIBED
CoiimiiI - (ii-norul Skinner <luote? An
; noiiiicenieiit I?*uecl by Admiralty
' Warning Skippers.
j WASHINGTON. D. C., May 23.? Pan
| f^er zones, presumably from mines in
j waters, about British Isles, are de
i scribed In a dispatch to-day from
| Consul-General Skinner, at I.ondon,
I quoting an admiralty announcement as
i follows:
"All vessels are strongly advised to
| obtain London Trinity House pilots
. when navigating between Great Yar
| mouth and English Channel. Oanger
| ous for ships to cross the area between
, ."1 degrees If. minutes and 51 degrees
; 40 minutes north latitude, and merid
j Ian of 1 degree, 35 minutes and 3 de
i grees, IS minutes, east, longitude. Navi
! gation in any part southern waters of
! North Sea not necessarily safe."
?
! THEY MUST STAND TRIAL
j Defendants Are Arcuxnl of Photograph,
j ing JolniNon-Wlllard Fight Picture*
Into tJie United States.
SYRACUSE, N. Y.. May 23.?James J.
! Johnston, manager of Madison Square
| Garden, and six other defendants, in
| dieted for photographing the Johnson
i Willard fight pictures Into the United
States, must stand trial. Judge Hay
to-day overruled a demurrer to quash.
The court held that the use of the films
In this country would have brutal
izing and pernictous effect on the
young. The men are charged with con
spiring to commit a crime by photo
graphing films of the fight across the
Canadian border.
Glass and James Supporters
Make Interesting Analyses
of Vote by Districts.
PARALLELISM IS STRIKING
Factions Differ Chiefly as to Di
vision in Second, Third
and Eighth.
With approximately of the ?no
j full-vote delegates who will be ac
! credited to the Roanoke convention,
j elected, local leaders identified with
I both the Glass and James factions,
after scanning the lists closely. ad
: mitted last night that the race be
I twc(ii the Sixth District Repregentattve
and the Danville man for the national
committee, has developed into a nock
and-neck affair with the margin so
| close as to make unsafe any prediction
as to the outcome.
I'nlike the usual pre-election claims
I of opposite factions, the ones now cur
rent are modest in the extreme. Or
ganization leaders, while insisting that
Horer A. James has the advantage over
| his opponent, agreed that the margin
[ claimed for him Is not large. In the
ciimp of the Glass supporters much
I comfort was derived from the fact that
j of the 116 instructed delegates that
i have been so far elected, ninety-eight
j have been instructed to vote for Glass
j and only eighteen for James. With
j 300 delegates yet to be selected, the
j Glass forces looked with confidence
i last night to a victory for their candi
date.
I Hit II.MOM) DKt.KGATION
IS I.AItGK FACTOR
Analyses of the situation, made yes-!
i terday by leaders of hoth factions, dis
J closed a remarkable parallelism. This
, was most apparent in the summing up
of the strength of the two candidates)
bv districts, the estimates differing in j
marked degree only m the case of two '
districts of the *en. I
A suminai v of ?h?- rural district-I
claims, based on official and unofficial i
returns received up to last night, runs'
a bout !ike this:
First District?entitled to ninety
three votes in the convention. Glass
supporters claim two-thirds of the
delegates, giving James the remaining
one-third. Vlrtjally the same appor- '
tionment was made by the James camp. I
j Second district?entitled to ninety-<
i one. The Glass faction claims the dis
) trict by a ratio of two to one. Op
| posed to this is the James claim that
i the Danville man will carry it by a
narrow margin.
, Third District?entitled to ninety
\otes. Glass supporters conceded the
i district to Jam' s i?y (l majority of
j about fifty to forty. In the James
? camp it was claimed that the majority
| would tie considerably larger. The big
' factor In this district is the Blchmond
I delegation, with Sixty-two votes. The j
j size of the James majority depends en
tirely upon the decree to which the
Richmond delegation will split, ihe
? James faction claiming all except seven
; or eight of the sixty-two, while the
Glass forces believe that the James
j strength in Richmond Is overestimated.'
; FIFTH DISTRICT IS
CO.VCKDKD TO JAMES
Fourth District?entited to slxty
) riino votes. Hoth sides assume that
! this district will he evenly divided, each
| claiming it by a small margin.
Fifth District?entitled to eighty
eight votes This it the home district |
of Mr. Jam<-s, and both sides agree in
conceding it to him almost solidly. Not
more than one-tenth of the vote, hoth
( sides agree, will go to Glass.
| Sixth District?entitled to seventy
j four votes. This is tlie home district
of Mr. Glass, and both sides concede
him nine-tenths of the vote.
Seventh District?entitled to ninety
votes. This is the home district of
Senator Martin, who is reported to be
vigorously supporting Mr. James. The
Glass forces concede the district to
James by a majority approximating
fifty to forty. James supporters claim
that lie will receive two-thirds of the
vote.
Fighth District?entitled to seventy
eight votes. Glass supporters concede
the district to James by a majority of
two to one. In the James camp the
claim was made that the ratio in his j
favor will be nearer three to one.
Ninth District?entitled to 129 votes.
This is the "Fighting Ninth," tepre
sented in Congress by Uascom C.
J Sleinp, Republican, and in- which dem-j
j ocracy is assumed to he of the organl
?zation type. Both sides agreed in al
j lowing two-thirds of the delegates to j
! James an?i one-third to Glass
' GLASS IS EXI'ISCTKI)
TO CA It It V Til F TI3XTII
Tenth District?entitled # to ninety
four votes. This is the home district '
of Representative Hal D. Flood, who.
although one of the organization lead
ers, is waging an active campaign for
Glass. Both sides concede the district
to Glass by a 3-to-l majority.
In making up their estimates leaders
of the Glass faction made the state- i
menl that their figures fully recog
nize the claims of the opposite side
that a majority of the nearly 500 un- !
. instructed delegates already elected
j will follow organization precepts and
j vote for James. Counting on a con- j
; tinuance of the wave of instructed
Glass delegations, they estimated that 1
i the Lynchburg man would win by a
! small margin.
| In organization circles leaders
j reached the opposite, conclusion, dls
I counting heavily the Glass claims In
Second, Third and Eighth Districts.
| They conceded to Glass the First,
| Sixth and Ninth Districts, claimed near
ly even hrenks in the Second and
' Fourth Districts, and majorities in the
I Third. Fifth. Seventh. Eighth and
1 Tenth Districts. On this basis, they
gave James a majority of more than
100 VOt69.~
I.'p to last night the following had
aIaaIa/I *i- ? - ' -
FIGHT FOR RUBLEE
ENDS WITH DEFEAT
Senate Declines to Reconsider Its
Refusal to Confirm Wil
son's Appointee.
EFFORT FAILS BY TIE VOTE
Unusual Parliamentary Situations
Develop, Vice-Prcsident Pair
ing With Senator Reed.
WASHINGTON, May 13.?Administra
tion efforts to have the Senate recon
sider Its refusal to confirm the noml
I
nation of Oeorec Rublee, of New Hamp- j
shire, as a member of the Federal j
Trade Commission, failed late to-day by!
[ a tie vote, 3S to 3S.
This ends the fight to keep Mr. !
; Ruble** on the commission, where he |
has been serving for fifteen months.'
Ho probably will continue In office
under President's Wilson recess ap
pointment until near the end of this
session of Congress. although he can
draw no salary for either past or future
| service.
CONFIRMATION IS III.OCKF.D
HV SKNATOHIAI, COI'RTKSY
Senatorial courtesy blocked confirma
tion of the nomination. The nominee's
lability or Integrity was not ques
j tioned. but Senator Galllnger, the Re
i publican leader, opposed him on> the
l ground that he hud been personally
I obnoxious in opposing him for re-elec
tion. To-day's action was on a motion
i by Senator Hollis to reconsider the
i vote by which the Senate last week re
jected the nomination, 42 to 36.
Thirty-three Democratic and five Re
, publican Senators voted for the recon
; slderation. and twenty-eight Republl
1 can and ten Democratic Senators voted'
against it.
Unusual parliamentary situations de
veloped before the vote was taken,
among them being the announcement
of an informal pairing agreement be- j
iween Vice-President Marshall, who'
j was absent, with Senator Heed, of'
i Missouri, who voted against Ruhlee's!
j confirmation last week. There also was'
I a switching of Senators' pairs during
| the roll call, and two Democratic Sen- '
ators who voted originally against
| Rublee were absent. It was agreed,
however, by Senators on both sides of
the issue, after an analysis of the vote,
that had every Senator been present
the result probably would not have
I been changed.
CONSIDKRATIOX DKFERUKII
FROM TIME TO TIME
| Mr. Rublee was named by President
ilson after the Trade Commission was
created, in February, 1915. Senator
Gallinger immediately began the fight
against his confirmation. As a result.!
consideration of the nomination was
deferred from time to time in the Sen-I
ate until Congress adjourned on March
4 o?? that year. The President then)
cave Rublee a recess appointment and j
returned his nomination to Congress |
last December.
After the rejection last week, mem-1
I hers of the Cabinet, colleagues of the j
, nominee on the commission and other i
I officials of the government sought to!
prevail upon Senators to alter their
position on the plea that Rublee was
an efficient public official.
Senators who voted for reconsidera
tion to-day were:
j Democrats?Ashurst. Chilton. Culher
? son. Fletcher. Hitchcock. Hollis. Hughes.
Husting, Johnson fof South Dakota), i
! Kern. I.ane, Lea lof Tennessee), Lee j
j <of Maryland), Lewi*, Newlands, Over
j man. Owen, Phelan, IMttman, Pomerene.
I Ransdell, Shafroth, Shcppard, Simmons,
j Smith <of Arizona). Stone, Swanson!
i Taggart. Thomas, Thompson, Tillman!
j Walsh and Williams?33.
Republicans?C.'lapp, Kenyon, La Fol
lette, Norrls and I'oindexter?5.
j Senators voting against reconsldera
i tion were:
Republicans?Borah, Brady, Brande
gee. Catron. Clark (of Wyoming), Colt.
| Curtis. Dillingham, Fall. Galllnger,'
Oofr. Harding. Jones, Lippltt, Lodge.'
| Nelson. Oliver, Page. Penrose, Sherman,'!
| Smith (of Michigan), Smoot, Sterling!!
Sutherland. Wadsworth. Warren. Weeks
j and Works?
? Democrats? lb, u khe ad, Rroussard.
; Clarke (of Arkansas), Hardwlck. Mar
tin. Marine. O'Oorman. Saulsbury, Smith
(of lieorgia.) and Underwood?in
Pairs?Vice-President .Marshall with
Senator Reed: Burleigh with Robinson;!
I Cummins with Vnrdaman; Du Pont with
l Beckham; Gronna with Johnson, of'
j Maine; McCumber with Gore; McLean!
I with Myers; Townsend with Bryan,'
j and James with Shields.
Senators Chamberlain. Smith of South'
! Carolina and Smith of Maryland did not j
| vote. Chamberlain and Smith of S-,uth ;
Carolina had voted against confirtna- I
| lion last week, but Smith of Mirylandj
i was absent on both occasions.
j PAIRS ARK. SW ITt HKl)
Dl'ItINO ROM. CAM,}
\\ bile the roll call was under way i
j Senator Jones, of Washington, who was
I Pulred with Senator Shields, of Ten
i nesser. announced that he had been in-'
formed that the Tennessee Senator, had j
he been present, would have been!
against the motion, and that, therefore, j
he felt at liberty to vote against it.1
Mis negative vote was recorded. Then,
when Senator Weeks, of Massachusetts,'
I was called, he transferred his pair
| with Senator .Tames, i?f Kentucky, to!
the absent Senator Shields, and also
was recorded in the negative. Sen- |
ator James, who was In Kentucky,
i would have voted for the motion had
he been present.
I'HECBDBXT IS RSTAIII.ISIIttI) '
RY ACTION OF MARSHALL.
I A precedent was established in the j
Senate to-day by the recognition of;
the pair between Vice-President Mar-!
shall and Senator ReeJ.
Senate records show it was the first
tln)e in history that a Vice-President
ever was paired, and some parliamen- i
tarlans claimed to-night that the pro
(Continued on Hecond'^Page.)
WHOLE GERMAN LINE
AT VERDUN SHAKEN
Commanders on Italian Front
rMy?p&Kaix>cop -^?V>:.;ia^ < r.;..
Left, (ienerul Cmlorua. the Italian commander-in-chief, who lias moved'
his headquarters to the Trentino front and is trying to stein the tide of the
Austrian advance. To the right is Kiehl Marshal Conrad von lloetzeiulorff,
chief of the Austrian general staff, who lias joined the array of Austrian
generals on the Tyrolese front.
lira IS LEFT TALKING
IIS COMMITTEE RETIRES
Executive Session Only Way to Cir
cumvent Mitchel, Who Refuses
to Bp Silenced.
H K CHARGES CONSPIRACY
Tells Wire-Tapping Tn vest i?ators
Combination Is Working to Dis
credit Committee Appointed by
Whitman.
NEW YORK. X. Y.! May 23.?Mayor
Mitchel to-day charged before the
Thompson legislative committee inves
tigating police wire-tapping that there
was a conciliation working to discredit
the committee appointed by Governor
Whitman to investigate Roman Catho
lic charitable institutions in New York
City. The Mayor said the combination
contemplated spiriting person* away
from the jurisdiction of the committee
and "trumping up testimony."
The Mayor's allegations were prompted
by the indictment in King's County
earlier in the day of John A. Kings
bury. city commissioner of charities,
and William H. llotchkiss, special coun
sel for the charities department, tor
their part in the "tapping" of tele
phone wires. The chief witnesses
against them before the grand jury
were Catholic clergymen.
>1A YOU AMI COM UISSIONKU
MBit IT "SKVKItK COM)KM NA TION"
Mayor Mitchel and Police Commis
sioner Woods were witnesses before the
jury, but were not indicted, although
the presentment of the jury declared
they merited "a most severe condemna
tion." if they approved wire-tapping
"merely to furnish counsel with infor
mation in a law case, or to gratify
curiosity."
The Mayor's determination not to
appear before the committee privately
brought him Into direct and acrimoni
ous conflict with Chairman Thompson.
Finally, to circumvent the witness, who
refused to be silenced, the chairman
ordered his colleagues into executive
session. The committee retired, leav
ing the Mayor still talking in the wit
ness chair.
Th?- meetings of the commission are
betng h?*ld in the rooms of the Sinking
Fund Commission, in the Municipal
l'uilding. The Mayor is chairman of
this commission. Senator Thompson
ordered th?* room cleared, but the
Mayor invited reporters and others
present to remain as his "guests." The
Senator pounded the table with his
pavel while. Mr. Mitchel continued
talking in a high-pitched voice. The
order for an executive session was
followed by a clash between Chairman
Thompson and Frank Moss, counsel to
the committee.
"We can't take up those conversa
tions here," shouted Senator Thompson.
"We can take them up only in execu
tive session."
AVI I.If T.tKK SI n.ir.l TS TO
??IMIOl'ICH A I'THOItlTlKS''
The Mayor declared he would have
to consider whether he would discuss
the conversations except in publtc. lie
intimated that he would take the sub
ject before the "proper authorities,"
with a view to the prosecution on four
charges of persons he declared were
involved in a conspiracy to discredit]
the charities department of the city. '
Senator Thompson issued his call for
an executive session, after Alfred J.
Talley, counsel for some of the clergy
men involved, had offered strong ob
jections to the reading of the conversa
tions in the Mayor's possession, or any
part of them. The attorney asserted
the alleged conversations were taken
down on a slate in longhand by four
police officers and were presented to
the charities Investigation committee,
which refused to receive them on the
ground it would be improper to have
them go on the record.
WKKK-ENT? RATES.
Via Norfolk nnrf Western Hallway.
J3.00 round trip Norfolk; IJ.i.'i Vlr>:lnlu
Bench; on Mile Friday afternoon and for nil
train* Saturday: good for return pastsagb
until Monday followlns.
KITCHIN TELLS PLAN
| AFTER HEATED DEBATE
! Spnriul Rule and Night Sessions Will
He Used to Forre Naval Appro
print ion Hill Through.
I
i REPI HLICANS AHR ANGRY
I Mann and Kitehin Accuse Each Other
i on Floor of Misstating "What Took
j Place at Their Conferences?No
! Further Attempt at Agreement.
j WASHINGTON, May 23.?A special
j rule to provide for immediate con
J sideration of the naval appropriation
j bill with night sessions. .1 limited
j period of general debate and a final
j vote not later than Friday or Saturday
; of next week, will be brought Into the
J House on Monday.
Majority leader Kitehin announced
this plan to-night, after a heated de
bate between Democratic and Repub
lican leaders on the floor, during which
Mr. Kitehin and Republican Leader
Mann accused each other of misstating
what took place at their Informal con
ferences on calling tip the measure.
Mr. Kitehin Insisted that Republicans
had tacitly agreed to the plan, which
Democrat* now expect to force through
by a special rule, while Mr. Mann main
tained that no understanding had been
reached.
"I shall make no further attempt to
reach an agreement with the Republi
cans." Mr. Kitehin said to-night. "Wo
went over the whole ground in con
ference, and they agreed to my plan.
1 thought it was entirely satisfactory
to them, because many of the Repub
licans had told me that they were i
anxious to Ret away from Washington
a week from Saturday, in order to at
tend the Republican convention in
Chicago. Of course, I expected them
to object to the rule on the floor as
a matter of policy, but I did not think
they would expect me to t\ke. their
objections seriously."
In objecting to the plan to limit
consideration of tl^e bill to fou * or Ave
days with night sessions, Mr. Mann said
1 it was "not generous, fair nor decent."
j He asserted that Mr. Kitehin told him
j the President had insisted the bill be
j passed before the Republican conven
tion, which Mr. Kitehin denied.
The indications are that virtually a
I solid Democratic majority will vote for
! the bill as r .-ported by the Naval Com
mittee. with its provision for Ave great
520.000.rtoo battle cruisers. Dread
nought advocates are depending on the
1 Senate to add about two battleships to
j the construction program.
! ASKS FOR U. S. SOLDIERS <
Former l'renldeu I of I'ltmtnta Wauls
'I lie in to Supervise Flection In
IIIn t ountry.
WASHINGTON, D. C? May "23.?A re
quest that the United States supervise,
with American soldiers at the polls, the
presidential elections in Panama next
July was made to-day to Counselor
I Polk, of the State Department, by Pablo
Aroseinemt, former President of the
1 little republic. No indication of this
government's policy was given by Mr.
Polk.
The Panamanian legation recently
assured the State Department that
ample provision for orderly elections
had been made.
ARREST PILOT IN IRELAND
? Relieved to lime Helped Sir Roger
Ca.Hcmrnt 1.11111I \rinn for
Revolution.
TRAL.BF, IR1CL.AND, May 23.
brother of John Goodwin, a pilot. wH
was arrested here by the Rrltlsh auvj
thorlties last week for alleged connec
tion with the landing of Sir Roger
! Casement. Just prior to the outbreak
I of the recent rebellion, was taken into
custody to-day.
The man. who also Is a pilot. Is be
lieved to have taken part In the at
tempt of Sir Roger to ln.nd ,nrms and
'ammunition for the Sinn Fein revolu
j tlonlsts.
GAINS IN BAITLE
BY CROWN PRINCE
ARE NULLIFIED
French Hold Fort Douau
mont Against Desperate
German Attacks.
PARIS DESCRIBES BATTLE
AS "MURDEROUS STRUGGLE"
Masses of German Troops Are
Mowed Down by Nivelle's
Artillery.
PARIS ELATED BY VICTORY
Austrian* Continue Their Great,
Winning Offensive Against Ital
ians in Southern Tyrol.
The Germans hnve replied to the ter
I rifle French offensive in the Douau
| mont region with assault after assault,
\ and the deadly combat northeast and
northwest of Verdun is still in prog
ress. Heavy masses of German troops
have been thrown against the picked
French troops, whose successful at
tacks won for them the greater portion
of Fort Douaumont and considerable
ground adjacent to the fort of high
strategic value.
l These newly captured positions the
French have, held tenaciously. Particu
lar mention Is made by the French War
< >fllce of the maintenance of the posi
tion In Fort Douaumont conquered by
the French on Monday. The fighting
at this point Is characterized by Paris
as "a murderous struggle." Kaeh at
tack was preceded by powerful artil
lery preparations.
Although they were hard held to the
northeast, the Germans would not be
denied at I?e Mort Homme and, after
having been mowed down by the
French artillery and machine guns
with sanguinary losses In several at
tacks. finally gained a footing In
trenches to the west of this much
fought-for position. Their tenure of
the trenches was short-lived, however,
for the French, in a counterattack im
mediately drove them out.
A.YNIVKHSAKY FINDS
ITALIANS IN KKTHEAT
Italy's first anniversary of her entry
into the war found her troops on at
least one sector In Southern Tyrol
forced hack by the great Austrian of
fensive upon Italian soil and in gen
eral retirement to their main lines of
defense from the region south of
ltovereto to the Valsugana, southeast
of Trent.
Rome admits that between the Astlco
and Pronto rivers and in the Sugana
Valley the Italians have fallen back
on their main lines of defense. Whilo
Home asserts that the operation was
carried out in perfect order after the
Italians had repulsed Austrian attacks
against the advanced line, Vienna says
that in the retreat from Borgo the
Italians were forced across the border
by the Austrian*. That the Auatrlans
have advanced as far as the head of
Lake Garda and the Sarca region is
indicated by the Home official state
ment. which says that Austrian troop
assemblages have been observed in
the riiva zone.
W hile along the Russian front the
usual bombardments have continued In
the Priet River region, the Russians,
in an infantry attack, drove the Ger
mans across the Voseluhu River and
destroyed their trenches.
In the coast region of Asiatic Turkey,
southwest of Trobizond. the Russians
have repulsed attempts by the Turks to
assume the offensive and also have dis
lodged the Ottoman forces from posi
tions on one of the slopes of Taurus
Mountains. In their advance on M.ieuI.
with .Mesopotamia their objective, the
Russians have occupied Serbecht.
I kn.mtim; has iikcomk
"MltllDKHOllS STRUfifiliB"
PARIS. May i\T? The fighting on the
right bank of the Meuse, especially In
! :he llaudromont-Kouaumont region, has
become a "murderous struggle." but the
French forces have maintained the po
sitions conquered yesterday in thajr
entirety, notably in Tort Douaumont,
i according to the War OfHce comn.unlca
I tion to-night.
The Germans have multiplied their
desperate assaults, only to be driven
j back with hcav> losses, the statement
( says.
; News of the recapture by the French
j of the greater part o* Fort Douaumont,
which was taken by the Germans at
j the outset of their Verdun drive, wan
j received with great ela,tton hy the
press and the public. General Nlvelle,
| the French commander at Verdun, took
I advantage of the fac* that the Ger
j mans recently ha\e been concentrating
'all their attention on Dead Man Hill,
j on the other side ?.f the river, and
! assembled a large, amount of artillery
j for the attack on ihe Douaumont sec
tor.
| IIKGINS HIS ATTAC K
ON KOIIT nOI Al MONT
On Sunday General Nlvelle began a
heavy artillery attack on Fort Douau
mont and adjacent positions. The hour
fixed for the Infantry assault was 4:31
P. M. yesterday. When the moment
came French Infantry, which h*d been
carefully selected and trained, began
the advance singing the "MaraA!)!*)**-''
