z
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
tin.
4PaTly cloudy to-day, warmer; to-mor-
IT SHINES FOPs ALL
heat temperature yesterday, 54; lowest, 49.
italic! wwifthor, mall and marine reports on past IS,
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 267.
PRICE TWO CENTS.
NEW YORK, WEDNESDAY, MAY 24, 1916. vrioM. .c i-rimim, mm 'Htiis;.iD aociKion.
V
lADAMS'WILL Germans dash vainly
pjpp whm tm AGAINST FRENCH LINES
Smwm 70 REGAIN D0UAUM0NT
'Now Hold Only Northeast Corner of Fort Assault
W.miM Will Tell of .M.vs
Ici'idiis Ti'lc.iri'iini rrinji"
Peck heath Inquiry.
KXI'KI.TS TMSTIFY
I'OlShX WAS FATAL; '' ' esterday. None of the tier-
! man counter attacks won any perma
. lcnt j,uct.cl,Mi according to t,0 com
pri-iini'i Loses .Iniiuty Air
us WitnoM's Detail Unh
oly Attempts.
T .. .'-.Vie flushed esterday
with
tl, ti bin al evidence tmirovo that John
I; IV. k w is pat to death by his i-on-In-law,
Dr. Arthur Warien Walte. Hy
') mnnient time at nightfall cverj thing
I d 1., tn made le.uly for the day of
i, ,ns !-. heiHiled to begin tnls mom
I. k ai Ha' Minimal branch of the Su-
nae I'unt.
T if ti the lull, slender, Itidlfteicnt prison-.
n trial for his life will find con
f.otdng lilm first his wife, Clara I.
Wa.i. alter her, Margaret Weaver Itor
t the other woman". Percy I'eck,
1 - ' . ,1'itr-in-law ; perhaps his aunt-ln-i.
n. Miss C.ithatme Pick, and some
I v .n.tttig Pie d.i the mjMcrious "K.
Ado.s whose, tebttr.un to Percy Peck
In . ,. 1 f,e investigation which resulted
tr I , ac, ueatluti.
1 e ..IftititV of "K Adams" has been
I.,,: , I'oscly gu.udcd seciet by Vis
it t At! , in y Swaun because tne woman
la. headed the publicity which would
f 1, w 'he dls, Insure
Inn after court I it I
. ... i .i..., .a,., ill i,M
r-:', . V' .. ". AJ., -hoT.1
. . I . V. ... ti ..f .,, in.,
,f r J .vol. A. Cornell of ' '.
.S .1 , l,M....B friend of he P ecU . ira I
I i ,v ,o- visits to the Waite apart! m ils I
iritiecl ally befuie and after Mr Peck's
i.ith l ad made him Mplclous that all
Wa tl t iKallt.
Iellf Poison Caused Dentil.
Tl it John i:. Peck tame to his death
- t e unlit of the heavy do-es of
:t.n found In Ills nivalis after death
i4, ihi unqualified ttotltnony of the
f wli.i conducted the autopsies oi
n . . f ! tlie contents of tli i.e orRans.
T I" ion watt found in lance quantl-
a.- ..,wi ..rt.. m, i'...'K"s ,
tir- ,! place In vslileh It was sought,
' 'l- ie were further evidences of I
i Mrm In the brain.
i V'. t ir i: V .up'in. ilean of tho j
y.u , ijol of Ann Arbor I'niveintv :
t. ,
f -
V I
i ,1
" II Si-hult7e. medical examiner
Di.tn. t Attntney: Pr Stanley1
I'. b t of Cornell Pnlveislty Midl-i
' i ' l, all mule those jmlnts ilaln. I
tun nv. Minuned up. said that
ven i:ra ns of arsenic had been
I alt, .ether and that 2Mi Rraln i
' . f it il d.e. '
' "i'y vva the poison found, but '
w.n testimony tint Walte had
d i moiiih before that Mr. Peck 1
- " !i die, as he was very III
vi r- b e terloloKlsts to tell of
i, nv liases of quantities of vlru
j'"i,.v ,,f diphtheria and typhoid
- f ! "V' il by the declaration that
!' w.ll "Vw tint the prisoner
s'l'iid some of these to the vie-'
i
i anie the testimony of the un-
r and embalmcr. the latter of '
1h
! " n elved $!",nim to Insert a little
" fie i.ndi.ilinlntr fluid. I
r vi-i wire related of Pr. Cornell
I - t epViv, Aithur Stvlntnn, and
u-I' "Us reception, the talks
' " .hi ties, the gradual break
: d un the man accused as he
rul tr.i'ii the effects of drURS
' i ' llorton had purchased for
e' lud t r with the half reRjetful
' mi' that i tirWnn Is a Rood place '
i to thiol; over his mistakes
' him tin ro would bo no such
e
VVnlte's smile lYIslliipenrs.
M l.n'lie . Asi.-tant District At
w.iK'il l itie tltni! ill the morn
ie rmi down to business with
' 'a wiiicsc Walte. lookiiiR
1 ai d eo'iifurtablo ns lie had the
' w.ik cir'y In his place, but
1,0 nreessarj exhibits were pro
I 1 ! -' -', in- of ills seemiiiR ills-
' 'idle-' He iihi not seem to want
h at them and he dropped hl ;
vv I, I,, the smile which seems al- ,
- ola on his puidulou.i lower
If r " ted
n n .i'pi of fi.'t, W.ute smiled
, "ia m "I laiiRheii only
! as when the roll of
"M ine J7 von was produced,
1 ,j h .is a Mhoolboy caiiRht In n
I ii li'.L'hed slieelilhle anil shnok .
ii
i d ml sn ered rather than
ii Liter ITuKcne i. Kane.
told of the money trans.-
.ii.l .i,t,,,iit..a .. . i...
. iiin'rAilllllll'l-
'" e had once been convicted
' -ne
;,'i Spr.vtb r. an undertaker from
' if I-, followed the three med-
en .1 tilled emiciselv. lie had
i i h .ih .it itr.ind Itaplds and
"i It to his establishment. Then
t' uolng teh gram and nc-
W , e had heard of this and hud i
" n ,
l'i
Peek'K Idea'.'" the de- '
i h id
-'1 Thin Walte ,ied:
e im wife nor 1 will permit all
n d d not Know then that thn
'v v i- n're.idv under wav. Later
M i y.ted to Mud out Hiinethlng,
1 1 i e. ,. have a conversation
I " U .ntr pii'Vloiis to (Ins t me
Mi I'd.?' askid Mr. Ilrnthern
' nnTit'r.raMoriuT
Pi W ii month before and I told
',,ed lli.it hN next visit wonlil '
' I' i l ll tcid rirniinwl . ., I
' I ,H, I he tetllc'." w.is the iioo.
' st the object, un of Mr.
Dmiet
lot t
'u 'euro.
I'leillei. Den Hi o
eel.
. I
e ' said the witness, " 'Oh,
-hi I mav he hao on
join I,,.' prettv mhiii, be
"III lis
John i;. i'. cic is a !
, ,
i. take, was siicei ed, , tlm I
i". It . hard U. M-iti.-i- of id
,'giitii si i eel, I,, ! walte
n iiieiij for the pii ventlon
"i e gr.iv hair. Wane had
I
t-oiiiiiiuitl ok iuf rage,
r
of
After Assault to Win Back Lost Ground Around
Verdun Broken Up With Heavy Losses.
Pt nil table Despatch to Tile St".
Pains, May 23. Terrific lighting con
tinued throughout Inst night and to-day
In tlie Vcnlun sector, where Die (ler
matiH nic seeking to iceovcr the ground
gained by the Piench
muniques Issued to-day, and the Her
man, wlio lust tlie Koutliern part of Fort
Douaumont yesterday, have now been
pushed Into the northeast corner of the'
fort, the rest of whleli Is In Fiotich
hands.
The (lerman battel les on the west
bank of the Mouse concentrated an un-
usually hcay lionibaulment with large
lallluc shells this mottling on the I icneh
lines Just tn the west of l.e Mort llonime.
These lilies ure on the sloisi of the hill
and lead down to the Uethlncourt biook,
which runs along the Isittoni of tho ra
vine separating !, .Mort Homme from
lllll Sol. The bombardment was con
tinued with the same violence all the
for, noon and this afternoon the (ionium
infantry moved furwaid to the attack In
dense masses.
The Fiench T&.s and mitrailleuses
worked such havoc In the closely packed
German musses, that the attack did not
reach tins French lines, and the erTort
was abandoned until 7 o'clock to
night, when a fresh attack, made with
similar effectives and similar violence
to the first, was launched. This second
attempt was momentarily successful in
getting a foothold on the western part
of the front attacked, near the stream,
but French troops In a counter at
tack, made before tlie Hermans were
able to organize the positions Rained,
recovered all the ground lost.
The section of the front to the east of
the river, from the Ilaudromont farm to
Douaumont. where the French made
their notable advance vcslerilay, was
pOUIIIlCII OJ
the Hermans throughout
ay. to-day both with unceasing ar
til ery fire and with constantly repeated
infantry attacks. Assault after assault
r0uIf.e., ,, tho cIo!,c of the ,,,.
' , . . ....,, ,,nsslon
of the terrain won yesterday and with
-
. still more of Fort Douaumont in their
I hands.
nrrninni I.oir llravllr.
The nlRltt communique follows:
In the rcnton of Verdun Herman
counter attacks took on a character
r pxtrni violence on thfl whobi of
our front, althoiiKh It Is not possible
to ulve precise details of the consider
able number of effectives who took
liai t in them.
On (he left bank of the Mouse,
after bombardment v'th shells of
larce calibre, which was continued
all the moriilnp. the Hermans repeat
edly launched massed assaulting forces
aK.ilnst our positions to the west of
I.e. .Mort Homme. The first attack.
In which the Hermans were mowed
down by our artillery and mitrailleuse
fire, was repulsed with very heavy
losses without the enemy beliiR able
to reach our lines. A second attack,
as violent as the first, undertaken
about 7 o'clock to-nlKht, Rained a foot
ing in our trenches to the west. Our
counter nttack, made Immediately,
lonipletoly drove out the enemy.
On the rlKht bank, the rccli of
Ilaudromont and Pouauniont throUKh
out the day was the theatre of nuxt
saiiKUlnary tlkiitlnR. Tho Hermans
multiplied their assaults. preeedliiR
each by very heavy artillery prepara
tion. In spite of all these efforts,
tho positions taken by us yesterday
were maintained In their Inteurlty.
notably In Fort Douaumont. In this
reRlmi more than 300 prisoners re
maliied In our hands.
There was the u-ual cannonade on
the rest of the front.
Aviation In the rcKlon of Fumes,
a Herman machine, struck by tho
mitrailleuse fire of ono of our ncro-
COMMITTEE TO VOTE
OH BRANDE1S TO-DAY
Friciuls Predict Fiivonililc
poH Test Expected on
' Floor of Semite.
Wasiii-voton, May 23. The Senate
roinmlttee on Judiciary will act on the
nomination of IxmU D. Hrandels to the
Supremo Court to-morrow. I rlends of
Mr Hrandels were contldent to-day that
thee would bo able to get a favorable
reisjrt on tho nomination or nt least a
rMort without unfavorable recommenda-
"Tho HrandiiH follower declared that
fiey would have every Democrat In the
.i ni Senator Shield", vwio is
,11111111',,' - , ' ' " " - , , ,
.-.le-ent. If he remains away and l not
palr.d the Democrats may get a ma-
Jorlty to report out thn nomination, t oo
feeling Is growing that the chances for
confirmation arc Improving.
However, thero Is likely to be con-
slilerablo delay mid " effort will bo
,ado to have the caso conHldered In
,,.,. Senate. This, It Is expected, will
. . nrst test of strength.
t-i,,. Sennto has not yet disposed of tho
KPyon and l.a Folletle lesolullons pro
viding lor open M'wi""". '
Ki-nvon resolution was before Hie Senalo
a lew dajs ago the sentiment disclosed
, n lis so favorable to open sessions that
' Mr Kenyan piedlcled that his resolution
I would prevail. Those opposed to It aro
trvlug H haw It referied to tho ( run
mitlce on Utiles, foi consideration before
the vole Is taken, The test voto Ihere
Ifmo Is likely to come on thn motion to
r 'Mher 'than upon the mcrlfn of ihe
I"1'1"0"-
- " "
NOTE TO BRITAIN GOES TO-DAY.
President Sends II o Stale Depart-
for Transmission. i
. , , , ,
Washington, May .3, A ''"nip eled I
Iran m iuu new i, ... ,
oi-oi.-stlng against Interference with
rni ooiilM was sent to tlie Slate lie-
mirtment to-day by President Wilson
f,,r transmission to London. It will
,bably go fm ward lo-morrow, when
Secretary Lntisliig, who has been 111 for
,ev,.ral davs, returns to his desk
r ),., using had decided lo sign the
l0't !lt ids. homo so Hint If might bo
cabled to-night, but dtclU4 i WS4I
until to-morrow.
plane", was brought down In our lines
near lleaumont. An avintik, seriously
hit In the course of an aerial com
bat, fell In tho enemy lines Itt tlm
reRlon of 1.1 1 1 Re. One of our pilots,
attacked by three enemy aeroplanes,
broiiRht down one of Ids adversaries
and put the other two to fllRht.
Theie was no Interruption In the fight
ing last nlRht on either side of the
river. The Hermans concentrated their
sttetiRth on the west bank aR.ilnst the
French positions on lllll .101 and on both
sides of that helitht, and on the rlRht
bank aRalust the Thl.iuii.ont-Douaumont
line In an effort to recover the ground
lost earlier In the day.
Flaming liquids were used to cover tho
Infantry attack tn the we.st of Hill 30i,
and at thl point one of the French
trenches was penetrated, but a counter
attack tliove the Hermans out again.
The French tlte prevented the Hermans
from reaching the tienchei to the east
of the hill.
The massed formation which wis
conspicuous In the early Herman .it
vaiice on Veidun was brought Into ue
igaln last nlKht in the Herman iffurts to
drive the French from their new posi
tions on the i.ist bank of the river.
The use of these u. asses, according to the
Fieneh comtuunliitit recovered one'
trench to the north of the Thlailinout
farm, but cost the attackers enormous
losses. At only this one point did the
French vleld to the massed attacks.
French Hnlnlnjc nt Fort.
The Hermans ate flRhtiiiR hard to re
tain tlfelr hold on Fort IVouaumont, but
are being pushed back gradually.
The afternoon communique Is as fol
low .
In the region of Verdun the battle
continued with extreme violence all
last nlRiit oil bpth banks of the Mouse.
On the lift bank furious counter at
tacks delivered by the runny against
alt our positions at lllll .104 resulted
In complete failure To the west of
tlie hill, particularly, the enemy m
plojed In large measure m.uhlnes to
throw II lining liquids. This permitted
them to penetrate one of our trenches,
but a brilliant counter movement on
the part of our troops compelled them
Immediately to evacuate all the tosl
Hons gained.
To the east of the hill, In spite of
an Intense preparatory" artillery tire,
tlie attack of the enemy was broken
by our tire and thit,- could not reach
our lines.
On the right bank of the river. In
the ""etor nf Thl.iiminnt and Pmiau-
mont, the battle has been continued
with ferocity. The enemy during the j
nlcht Increased the number of their
attacks In massed formation and suf-
fered enormous losses. Tliey were
successful, however. In occupying a
trench which had been taken by us
to the north nf the Thlaumont farm.
Everywhere. el we held our positions.
Inside of Fort Jiouaumont we have
continued to force back the enemy, and
In spite of a spirited resistance the
Hermnns to-day hold only the north
east corner of the fort.
On the heights of the Metise a sur
prise attack delivered by us In the
Chevalier wood wan In all ic.iiri.ta
fcUccessful.
The night passed in relative calm I
i the ruualiiiler of the front. !
The French military writers lay great
emphasis on the recapture of most of
Fort Dauauinont, not only for Ihe
strategiu value of the height on which
the ruins of the fort stand but for the
moral effect. The recovery of the ponl.
tlon, In the !ew of some of the writer","
nullities the most Imicirtant achieve
ment of the ierm.uis, at least on this
bank of the river, In all their operations
against Verdun,
The success of the attack was made
possible by the concentwtlon of the !ur
man attention on their operations
against l.e Mort Homme and Hill 3fil on
("oiifbuici on TViinf I'mje.
CARRANZA ASKS WHEN
U. S. TROOPS WILL GO
Sends Note to Washington on
Witlidnnviil Says He Will
Defend Nation's Territory.
Mkxico Citt, May 23. Carranza
despatched a note this morning to the
I'nlted States (iovernmcnt asking that
a detinlte day be set for the withdrawal
tif A lint fiii'l i fpm On.Un
The note was carried by a sp-da
istr on a I
-S 'old a delegation of
luw Ntllflents eelw, enlleil on 111,,, ln.,1 iv I
1.... i..,..Vr. .. .,.. .... i
' he frimtlV : Y e . d' ,ha he '
deterinlneil to defend the nallonal
cross
VVIIH
ferritin y from foreign Invasion.
Minister of Foreign Affairs Agullar
publishes a statement asking foreign dip
lomats to advise him when their na
tionals travel by trains, stating that he
Iuih In en Informed that Zapata has de
cldid not to light any longer against
thn Constitutionalists, but to bend
his energies toward dynamiting trains,
with an especial view to killing Ameri
cans. The Minister is determined to protect
foreigners nrcnrdliiKl) with armed es
corts. TWO YEARS FOR PACIFIST.
Ilrltlsh r'niirl-ninrlliil Writer of
Alitl-Mllllnrliii Pamphlet,
Spertnl I'nlile Itmpalch MTiik Scs,
Ir-iNDiiN, May 23, C. II, Norman, the
pacifist ngllator, wan sentenced lo two
yeais imprisonment by court-martial to
day for refusing to obey nil military
orders.
(- .Vnnuan was the author of nn
article published In tlm .Vein AUr, a l,on-
don publication, on December 10, MM.
w WM ,lt),r reprlnled in pamphlet
rnrln under thn title "ilrltlsh Mllltar-
Ism." In this nrtliio ho said that Her
man inllltaiism differed from that of
oilier countries only In lis thoroughness
""..'::! .i?'""
w deli l , h so gl to g neA y"
which, no nam, soiimii to fcot tierlnany
to Join ll against (Ireat Ilrllaln when
the latter was engaged in Hie lloer vvnr.
I.At'ltKI. IIOl'MK. I.AKKWOtin,
Ope until June, Idsel motor ruo.
II When
BILL IN TO PREPARE
INDUSTRY FOR WAR
Nntionnl Council of Six With
Spvcii Advisers Proposed
in Hiiy's Measure.
AXOTIIKH CLOITItK IH'LK
Notice (iiven Tlmt Xiivnl Hill,
Will lie .liimiiicd Tlirotirli
l.nte Nest WeeU.
VVvsitlNUTOx, Stay 53 Another prr.
patedness measure was added to the Ail
ministration's piogratntne to-day In thc
form of a hill Introduced In the llousa
by .Mr. May. chairman of the Military
lommlttee, providing for the establish
ment of n national council of executlvi
Information,
The formulation of this plan for bring
Ing under the supervision of one bodv ,
the national industries and resources of
the country which may lie drawn upon '
In time of war was undertaken, ac
cording to Mr. llav. at the cxnress win
oi tlie resident. I
Tlie Ilitrodiii lion of the bill was onlv
one asptct of the eleventh hour activity
of the Adminl-tratlon leaders In the
Mouse to advance tlie Administration's
preparedness pioRiamine as mar as pos
Slble to COUIIlietion before the e.itlixrlnir
of the national political convention.
Majority la-ader Kltchln aimounccl
to-day that it was the Intention of the
Democrats to pass Hie naval hill by Sat
urday of next week under a special rule
limiting debate. Thin brought forth a
storm of Indignation from the Itepubll
cans, and Itepresentatlve Mann charged
that the gagging was being done bv d
re, Moii (if the President. The attitude 'jf
th" Itepiiolicans foiesliaibiwed a spci
tacular light m the House when the
naval bill is taken up for consideration.
I he new ptepaiediiess measure pio
viillng for the ioutn.il of executive in-
iiirmaiioii is designed in ome respects'
to comply with the demand for a na-!
tlon.il council of defence, but covers onlv ,
the civ.llan aspect of the problem "f
marshalling the resources of the countrv
in preparation for war. The enim.-u i"
to consist of six member, of The v.'''-.
; M..-i. iiu aie to appoint an advisory
, commission of seven persons, experts In
the lines of industry most directly In-
."e,. in uie tasK or defensive prepa
ration. Provision of ,r ,
The bill provides
That a council of executive infor
. ....i.Mi inr me coordination of in
iiusincs anil resources for tl,..
na- 1
"onai security and welfare Is hereby
established, to uonsirt of tho Secret.irv
Jar' ,h" Secretary of the Navv,
'"c Secretary of the Interior, the Secre-
tary of Agriculture, the Secretary of I
'ommerce and the , . 1
bor ' ' 1'
The council hall nominate to the !
I resident and the President shall ap
point an advisory commission con- I
sltlng of not more than seven per- 1
sons, each of whom shall have special I
knowledge of ome Industry, public 1
utility or the development of some
natural resource or hi, otherwiso i
specially qualified In the ,ml linn ,f ,1...
council ror tn.
Ilcrformii ,wm ,t ,1...
"""" Hereinafter described
members of tlie advisory com-
.o.i-.-ioii snaii serve wnnout coinpensa
tlon. but shall be nllowed actual trav-
eiiiiiR expenses and mbslstence
attending tlie meeting C1f
In
the
comiiussion or w lien
ell 17.', veil l.i
uiMsiiKaiions pertaining to Its actlvi
ties. The advisory commission shall
hold such meetings as may lie called
by the council or as provided by the
rules, adopted by the council for the
conduct of Its wot It.
Dulles of the Conned.
It shall be the duty of Ihe council .
of executive Information to super- '
vie and direct Investigation and in
make recommendations to the Presl- I
dent anil the heads nf executive de.
partments as to tlie location of rail
loads with reference to the frontier of
the Fulled States, so as to render pos. ,
slide expeditious concentration of
troops and supplies to points of de. i
fence; the coordination of military. I
Industrial and commercial purposes In i
the location of extensive highways I
mm oiiioi-ii noes oi raiiroaMs the mo
bilization of mllltnry and naval re
sources for defence; the Increase of
domestic production of articles and
materials essential tn tlie support of
armies and the people during the In- '
j i-i i ui'ii'oi oi ioi.'ikii ronimcrce ; tho 1
i iieveiopineiii oi seagoing transpnrta-
tlon; data as to the amounts, loen- I
tlon, methods and means of nrodne.
tlon and availability of military sun- I
piles; the giving of Information to
to
proilurers and manufacturer as to
the classes of supplies needed bv the
military and other services of the i
' . , ,, " ro
liarerci, w;!. re;,,:r,;,osi,
MiWrt
. . . . i ,01 ill
diistrini resources or the nation
Authority . give,, for ,e creai.on
VL Ll" ,:nLr'Um'l. '-les
,"l nmniiiHwi III oil IllVt'SllgaiinnS llllOeil, ,n 1 "- - ........... ...
either by the employment of experts or' whether boring through a wall and In
by the creation of committees of spe- stalling a dctcctaphone Is malicious mls
clally qualified persons serving without , chief,
compensation."
srmoiir to Wnlve Immunity.
aon.OOH Appropriation. , Frederick Seymour early In the after-
The bill appropriates $200,000 to be noon, when he expected to be called bo
Immediately available for the expert- fore the Crand Jury to-day rather than
mental work and Ihe Investigation tn before Chief Magistrate McAdoo, said
1o undertaken by the council or Its tli.it he would testify willingly to all 'i
subordinate bodies and to pa tho , know, and would sign the waiver of
necessary expenses, clerical and other-j immunity upon which the District Attor
wlie, of the council and Its subordinate nn. inelsts. Later, when told that the
committees. The measure was referred proceeding was tn lie a John Doe In
to the Committee on Military Affairs and ,.uiry Sevmour said that made no dlf
will probably be reported to the House ference
soon after the conventions. William J. Hums left Lew Angeles this
The purpose of the Democratic lenders niornlng and will reach New York on
nf the llonso to rush tlie preparedness ' tlir,lay sa,i ids son, Haymond J.
hills will, according tn Hepresentallvo J,' wlw, Friday refused lo obey a
lvlteh n. be carried out even If it Is .'... '...' ,,iiie in.
necessary for the House to convene In
the morning and sit null ate at night
in order to pass the legislation before
the political conventions.
NORTHCLIFFE'S FIRST SPEECH.
irmrs llneonrHueiiirnl of Arm In- I determination not to mane a complaint
.... ... against Hums for unlawful entry or any-
rentor. nn.l Miirr lain,.. m m , , cmire
.iprrial Vahle Hetpatrh lo Tlie Si 1 t,Ht n,e hearing Is being held, He Ih of
l,oNPN, May 23, In thn House of tlie opinion that the making of a crlm
Lords to-day In a debate on tho air Inal charge against Hums Is the District
board Lord Norlhcllffe made his maiden 1 Attorney's duty, not his. District Attor-
speech, lie said that there were three
rlsTntinl nds of 'ihe boa1,,., one
"," ,"mr'' " 'nvn '',l"f",'' t luven-
,.. , ,npm,,, Inventors. h,a ...
i t ' "v-
ntul, Iliianriai assistance nr tno inanu-
facturer, and tho third, an Increased
numtr of trained avialora.
The debate woe adjourned.
MITCHEL, WITNESS A
INQUIRY, ALLEGES
CATHOLICS TO
yjj jB H
William H. Hotchkiss.
Special investigation counsel.
Who were indicted yesterday
BURNS WILL BE
IN PHONE
" """""
ti... r . r t- m
uoc 1,1(luly begins i
trate McAdoo and Others May Be Accused in
Seymour & Seymour Office Incident.
A John Doe investigation into the tap-j
ping of the telephone wires of Seymour
Seymour, lawyers In the Kqu'.tnb'.e llulld-
"'K' which l!tTlct Attornev Swann saiu
yesterday would result In the Indictment
of YVilllum J. Hums, the detective, will
(Otninence at 11 o'clock this morning be
f.Te Chief Magistrate McAdoo.
If the outcome of this Inquiry Justi
fies It the District Attorney will go Into
the whole question of lapping of tele
phone wires by the police and will In
vestigate all the 3j0 cases in which the
police have listened In on telephone con
versitlor.s since January 1. li'll.
flilef Magistrate McAdoo,
Judge
Swann said, will Inqulte Into
tlm case !
of Ficderlck Seymour versus w imam j
J Hums and John Doe." AH the wit- j
on who have been connected with the
Sevmour wire tapping case, Including
t!r,i iv, i i p Morgan X Co . who i
Martin I.k.tn of .1 I . Morgan ,v i. o.. wi i j
mgaged Hums to detect suspected dl- j
v, rung of tills on munitions ordirs from
Ih
Morgan olf Ices to the Sevmour offices,
are subpienaed.
Judge Swann will take ,
personal charge of the Inquiry 1
"We will go into the whole situation'
and decide the best means to indict,'
said Judso Swann. "We will iiiso de
cide whom to indict besides Hums:
Then there ure grounds foi the In-,
dictnielit of Hums?"
ask eil
PnnuaUnedly, yes
diet Attornev.
Judge Swann was
1 arutwered the Dls-
rnlnivfiil I'utry Chars'.
j Chief Maglstinte McAdoo Intends at
j least to start tho Inquiry under section
105 of the Penal Code, regarding unlaw-
JUI eiurj, ihiis" .ii',',,.,, ,.'.."ciih'iv
vear In the penitentiary and 1500 flue
Testimony neiore llio I Illllll isuii ll'K nm-
tlve commlttt e has been that William J.
lturns, ins son, .-sneromn nuiim, mm ii
stenograi'iier entereu me .--eyinour on ice
at night by means of a pass key.
Then, accoidlng to this testimony, not
only was a dctcctaphone Installed In tho
Seymour ofTle'es a
uei-nioiir off U'es I'oiinectlng with tho Hel-
clan Itellef Fund s old office next door,
but William J. Hums 'imself went into
Predcrick Seymours office, opened his
desk and tooK out papers ami carat",
which he returned afterward.
Section lor, makes It a misdemeanor to
enter a building or any part thereof with
Intention to e-ommlt a felony or a larceny
..e niiv malicious mischief. The ones-
thms arising are whether the taking of
Lapers from '-k' wide h are la it re-
,',' 'MH been kept Informed of the
rum,K developments) by telegraph,
I " "... ,,.,i liunm savs. and l readv to
appear berorn tno liranu jury or any
body else and wnlve Immunity.
Mr. Seymour said that lie would ad
hire absolutely to hie. already expressed
nev Swann deseilbed the John Doe In-
"X S mS'.'
I "Chief Magistral.. McAdoo will sit as
' i..i., n,,.i-ir,
n I'liiiiiiliiuiin ,". iv-nmi i on- m
pnrt VI, o (leneral Sessions In the case
of Frederick Heymour versus William J,
i Hums nnd John Doe, and every witness
wh0 has appeared . before me gr the
John A. Kingsbury,
Chnrities Commissioner.
in the wire tupping case.
INDICTED
CASESWANN
i r. s ii .. .
o-uay ueiore iniei magis-
Thompson committee In this eonneition
has been or will be subpoenaed."
Judge Swann's former Intention, ex
pressed In a letter on .Monday to Fied
erlck Seymour, had been to have him
before the Grand Juiy. Ills explana
tion of the change to a John Doe In
quiry follows :
"This case has reachid a place where
tt ought to lie gone Into thoroughly and
publicly Therefore. 1 lnve asked t'hicf
.Magistrate McAdoo to undertake it, and
he ins consented. I cannot make pub
lic the names of all the witnesses who
will appear, but we have nked Fred
erick and John Sejniour. We have aUo
called .Martin Kg.tn of J. 1' Morgan
& . anil r....,p,.A 1' . i
dent of Hi.. I- .1.1.. ii"...!.. J...-'
tlon. which controls the Kqi
tillable llollil.
Ing. where Seymour Sevmour tuve
(jra Vury the aSlT othe'r'w ln tapping
cases which Police Commlesloiier Woods
lNb-J. but we have two liraitd Jurbn
'" M'"sn now and botli of them are
JaminriI ,t ivou1
fllI. ,,,, w.ls f((r thw r(Mon
th it I have asked Chief Magistrate
-Y' -vioo to undertake this In.pilry ; the
Jur ' "s "'"' "" with
dable a task.
n,iu ,-ivieiisie .inn lornii
"If matters develop, however, we shall
go into the whole eltuation. This will
ls a different son of Inquiry than
that of the Thompson committee. Tlie
method of examination before that
committee was not to get at any par-
llru'ar criminal. Ihey were simply In-
quiring into wire tapping as It affected
a public utllltv "
Haymond .1. Hums said yesterday that
he could not see how his father or
an body connected with the Hums
agency could be Indicted for unlawful
entry because of their actions In the
Seymour case,
llnd Permission to Knler.
"Wo had permission from Mr. Mortl
mer and the owners of the Fvpiltablo
Un il up In mil,,, ,l. .oll o I...
, I don't see how it was unlawful
entry.
Testimony hefoie.the Thompson com. 1
mittee nus stiown that William J. Hums
and Martin Pgan of the Morgan firm '
told thn building superintendent that ,
they believed a ciiini. was being rnni-
mltted by somebody In Seymour A- Sey.
mour's office nnd wanted access to the
otiie'o to get evinence. i hen those In
charge of the building gave them access
"Also," said Mr. Hums, "we have laid
all our side of the case before the Dls-
trlct Attorney. F.veryhody concerned
hiiH told him his story, all our onera.
lives nnd stenographers In any way e-on-
cerned In It. We went In there to get
evidence of n crime, and we weie Justl-
fled, My father and I and anybody
else connected with the case will be I stand and get them out of the Jurlsdlc
glad to nppear before tlie (Jrand Jury I tlon."
or anybody else and tell our stories Tho allegid conspiracy, he declared,
again. We aren't afraid of any thine." was an attempt "to Intirfme with gov-
Nelther Frederick nor John Seymour
would make nny statement generally on
the case yeslerday They expect, how.
ever, to make public a lengthy state-
ment after Frederick Seymour Is
through testifying to-day. This slnte.
ment win ne a complete resume or tneir
connection with Ihe wiro tapping matter
The stntement, It was learned last
night, will deny absolutely that there )n t, charities Investigation Itself nilssloner KIngsbiirv of the C: ir, ties !)
was nn International side to the matters I m,. Mitchel allured that the nersons ! Partmeut and William II I l,,t..,t,is
the police overheard, as Commissioner
Woods and Mayor Mitchel io often have
a Id. Particularly It will deny that any
shipment of arms to Ilia nt the time the
American troops went Into MexliM was
oiscusseu over me iciepuone in ineir
.tll.m Islin til'lliimntll (rut It'll! I ,..
moee, ""' " , ' , " oiue
reatures or me e-ase which nave not neen
published, nbout which Ihe Heymotira
have oonferri'd In the last day or twvj
with several persons.
District Attorney Lewis of Kings
piunty let It be known j esterday that
he Is through with his Inquiry Into
wiretnpplng for tho present.
"As far as Kings county Is concerned
the Indictment of Commissioner Kings
bury and Mr. HotchkUs will end the
wire tapping scandal." he said. "I have
no evidence from tlm Thompson com
mittee or other sources to Hhow that
there has been an Invasion of Hrooklyn
by police wire tappers since Father Far
rell's and Mr. Potter's wire were tapped.
"In case, however, any of the ,",riO
wire tapping by the police since January
1, MM, Involve Hrooklyn, and If that
Is reported to me. It will bo taken up,"
T WIRE TAPPING
A CONSPIRACY BY
OBSTRUCT JUSTICE
Supervision of Telephones, He Tells Thompson
Committee, Made Necessary by Efforts
of Church to Interfere in Af
fairs of State.
MGR. DUNN IS FLATLY ACCUSED
AS WELL AS FATHER FARRELL'
sations Overheard by Police Charges Emphatically
Denied by Chancellor of Diocese.
.Mayor Mitchel, appearing bcfoie the Thompson committee yester
day, charged a conspiracy on the part of certain Catholic clergymen anil
others of his co-religionists to interfere with the city government and
obstruct the administration of the law. He justified the tapping of tho
telephone lines in connection with the recent charities investigation on
these grounds.
He recited instances which he alleged made up tlie conspiracy, ex
tending back to 1910, and charged specifically that the conversation!
reported over the tapped telephone lines led the police to bclicvo that
Fnthcr Farrell had promised $50 and Mgr. Dunn, chancellor of the nrch
diocese, had promised to pay $100 to get witnesses out of jurisdiction.
The Mayor was not allowed to reveal the alleged conversations re
passed over the tapped telephones. The refusal to hear this part of his
story led to the most exciting clash in the Thompson committee's history.
Commissioner of Charities Kingsbury and William II. Hotchkiss,
counsel in the charities investigation, were indicted by the Kings county
Grand Jury for wire tapping.
Mgr. Dunn issued a reply to Mayor Mitchel, He denied that he ever
paid $100 to Dr. Potter, and hinted that he and his associates had been
aware for some time of the eavesdropping on the part of the police and
had taken action accordingly. He also saiil that he was responsible for
the Farrell pamphlets.
Chief Magistrate McAdoo will begin this morning a John Doe in
quiry into the tapping of the telephone wires of Seymour & Seymour,
lawyers in the Kquitablc Building. District Attorney Swann says thero
is evidence enough to indict William J. Burns, the detective.
The Mayor was to decide overnight whether he would give full
details of the telephone conversations to the committee in closed session
to-day.
MAYOR CHARGES FOUR
CRIMES BY PLOTTERS
Maor Mit'hfls
things wide open"
facto underlying tin
threat to "tear
-to disclose the
tapping of tele-
'nhone wires In lonmclinu with the
, recent
harltles Invt stlg.ition was ex -
.edited
tetday atternoon befote the
Thompson legislative committee. It did
t.ot get as far a" the Major Intended.
hcciut the committee, in a scene that
waj. not oiuy tenely exciting and dra
matic, but humorously grolesiue. refused
to listen to a recital of the conversa-
Hons t. ported over the tapped telephone
l.tles.
The Mavor charged that during the
entire lite of th" ptescnt city odmniistia
t.on "there has been a well organized
and purp'e.eful conspliacy conducted bv a
ceitaln number of cotellglonlsts of my
own. acting with other peisons. to oh
struct the due process of government ;
to Interfere with the proper and orderly
conduct of the government and with tho
proper and orderly conduct or control
of the private charitable Institutions of
tlie city "
Mayor Mitchel Implicated tlne per
sons, '"either Individually or acting In
concert," In four crimes' which It was
Mispccted by the administration had l en
.committed by them--perjury, criminal
libel, consp'r.icy In titter a criminal libel
and conspiracy to pervert and obstruct
justice and in event the due adtnlnlstra
' tlon of the law It was to get evidence
of these suspected crimes, he r.ald, that
, the telephone wires of the Hev. William
i It. Fariell. a Catholic eiergnian of
i Ilrooklvn. Dr. Daniel C Potter and his
son. Dean Potter, weie tapped b order
of tlie Police Commissioner.
Priests I inter -Misplcliiii.
The administration, he r.ald. was
prompted to order the tapping of the
telephones because "there were serious
grounds for Iielieving tn.it lucre i xisicn
a conspiracv on the part of certain i
nrleUri of the Catholic church, this man
Potter, llebbard ( Hubert W. Ilchhanl,
former nvriar of tho State Hoard of
Charities) and otners, to pervert juslii e,
obstruct the due administration of the
law, teach witnesses what to say on tho
stand (at the Strong inquiry), prevent
1 other witnesses from coming on tho
'r rnment, in slnut, religions interfcieuce I
with the government of this city, which
i is a thing, I think, isintrary to Hie spltlt
of American institutions." While ho Ih I
Major, bo added vehemently, there will
. no Intel ference with tho State by the
; ( hurch, Just as It Is a fundamental
Iptinclplo of American life that the State
, .i,.,n n.n nueif, u with tlie Church.
j ,os lines weie taliped and others were
engaged In a persistent effort to ills-
I ,,, i,. iim .v Kingsbury. Charities
',,, issloner. to "pull him oft' the n.
vestlgatlon," to "malign, slander nnd He
1 ,K. ),, to intimidate him and Hip
I ....
i jjnyor, so that Immunity niigiii ue se-
i ,.,..., , (i,eni. to dlscred t the (iov.
ernor's cnnimlrvslim and all concerned
and to exert all the pressure they could
to obstruct Justlco and tlie admlnlstrii-
., .. ..r .V... I
IIOH "1 I"'
Comng down lo speeiue cases, tne
M, e or charged "that Mr. Farrell prom -
to iir.v I,-.!) to get a witness out
Jurisdiction, and that Mgr. Dunn (ch.in -
cellor of the archdiocese of New Yoik)
nromlsed to pay 100 to set a witness
, of Inrisdlctlon."
Ttie Major, however, was inn per
milled t read Into" fclie record tho con
versations alleged lo trye been reported
over the tapped leleiihonn lines la the
charities InqiillJ It was that action
iv tlie Thou pson nominlltee which pre
cl'pltated happenings whioli have m'arcely
ever I'een equalled. The roinmlttee In
a closed session having adjourned to
- - . - . . .
another room, leaving the Ma.vor In the
witness chair decided it vvotiid hear
tho conversations onlv in sn-iet Tho
Mayor demanded to be heard In public.
So insistent was he tl.it v..,-.. r.,t ,l.
1 nii' nator l liompson's rulings
and ie.nl on in a hubbub of gavel rap.
ping, object Ions by members of t.ie coni
inlttie and ciles for older.
The Major declared he would rend
to thoe who would stay In fact, t
lead four or live seiitui'es of onu of
the conversations reported ovei tlm
t.'lpl.ll telephone lllle befote the din
drowned hN voice and compelled h.m
tl, Hltltl Tl,.. , . .
,,..lVt, rom t,,"',.,,. "'V, ,, tetie
lo go on. .-senator Tnnim,-,,.. iiMiiml.,1
the table with bin g.,v and ordereil
the serge.tnt-.il-inns to dear the room.
The Mavur se, tiled to enjoy the llasco
and sat luck in Ids chair smiling When
the scrgeant-at-arms end. .iv.ucil to clear
out the press table the Jlaj.-r turned to
the reporters and said
"I'll Invite .vuii to st.iv IH make
ou members ,,f the Kinking fund com
mission, so that you an st.iv-. ' And
they tt.ijed.
The committee was it, a quandary.
The Mayor seemed to be the ,-oolest man
In the room. Frank Moss, the commit
tee's counsel, was Hushed with rage,
excited bj a previous angry tilt with th"
Major. Senator Thompson oftcted to
I casou with Major Mitchel, but tho
Major was unshaken In hi- determina
tion lo proceed. Charges of ills otirtesv
flew- back and forth, while tlte crowd lit
the toom, which tilled every seal and
packed Handing space, enjoyed the show.
Finally Mr. .Moss moved tli.it the com
mittee adjoin n to Kniii other building.
Inat-much as the Major would not leave
the committee for a closed Kcsson U the
Coroner's court room.
Offers of ii roinpronilse.
These scenes lasted for nearly half an
bout. The committee by that time wan
almost convinced that ii wub have to
leave If It wanted to do anj moie busi
ness Hint daj Then tile .Mayor offered
to compromise, tilings lie announced
that he would take under advisement
over night the question of submitting
the conveiatious reported over the
tapped tehphm.e lines to the mmnilttee
behind closed doom Ulieieiipon the
committee li.nl its tlosul M-t..on and tho
members fought tilings cm among them
selves Senator Thompson ,..uy jn ,)lc morn.
ing win u the committee convened an
pounced that tin, Mayor ..! been of.
fered the stand, hut had faded to take
advantage of u. n .,h ,lu, ,.,,.,,
would hold the oppoitimlty n for nlm
until to-night and then cms ,er n cl isul
Meanwhile Ihe M ijor in Cltv Hall was
Incensed at the MudlrgH of t o drand
jury ill iirooi.ijn, wlllcli minted Com-
! special Assistant Corporation Counsel to
!"1 v'lse Commissi.. tier Kingbuiy In the
I charities Investigation by the strnnir
commission. s., ,i, il0 ouln
I make known nil Hie den ,n t v(.lr
'!' case wiiiiin lortv-cght hours
1 I, i ll 1 I tU' 1 1 1 (.- tlllw.bn. ..i
f I. HOW Ulg lUIICIlCiai w. l Lm..,
Hardy. Corporation i ounsel, t Maj...
decided to take tin, Hand be'ion tl
Thompson ciinmltteo ,u ; ..o in th
afternoon, lie h.nl thru lied a confer
euce In City Hall with I' .ioin' slonn
I tvlneshory. Ml- I lol.-lo. I . ...
i ,.7, ",, , ', """i
' L1'"1''0". their counsel. ..n.j Heputy
f ' ommiss oner yv.iii.iiu J nheriy and
1 enrge Hi. e I he ohm i.j f t,
j Major In the T imnipsoii conimiiteo room
vas the most drauuti.- incident of the
committee K sen- nionai sesi-on
rei... M , ...... ,1. I , . .,
liie Mayor. h bonair and smiling, with
a largo portfolio under his arm, Hrodu
Into tho room a lew minutes after ,i
o'clock, with Mr. Hardy, Lieut. Hilly
Kennel, the Maynt'.s liodyeuard', Thoo
dor ltousseau, his executive secretary,
and several stenographers, and Commls-slon-r
Kingsbury. Deputy Police Com
missioner Lord had been on hand for
