THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TV K N T Y-SEV ENTH YEAR
10 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, WEDNESDAY MORNTNAi, MAY 24, 1916
10 PAGES
VOL. XXVIL, NO. rt
GEMOTS FOOD
SUPPLY ASSURED
SAY OFFICIALS
Appointing of Food Dictator
Will Centralize Distribu
tion Taking It Out of
Hands (if the Federal
States
NEW POWERS ARE
CONCENTRATED
Dictator W ill He Able to
Take Up All Food Sup
plies and Fix Prices Pet
I apita If Necessarv.
Take Effect Soon
Auvum ixvit
! r rr r n r a to DTT'TM T 1
FRENCH ATTACK WITH
MURDEROUS ASSAULT
OATMAN MINING MAN I
FOUND DEAD IN BED
KINGMAN, Ariz.. .May 13. I
i Charles Crimes, mining capitalist
I and operator of Pasadena, CmL, and
until recently controlling factor and
: general manager of the Tom Reed
j mine at Oatman, was found dead
j about noon today in his room at a
I local hotel. Death was due to nat-
I ural causes. The condition of his
i body indicates that he had been
dead at least twenty-four hours
, when found. His remains will be
shipped tomorrow morning to his
! home in Pasadena for burial.
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BERLIN. May 32. "The adequate
nourishment of our population is fully
assured and will not be rendered
doubtful by any blockade regulations
of enemy states, no matter how un
scrupulous they may be and no mat
ter he w long the war may last," says
the semi-official North German Ga
zette, in an announcement of the crea
tion of a food dlstatorship with
sweeping powers.
"However, the short harvest of 191H
together with reduced imports, have
resulted in a food scarcity in some
directions which, makes itself acutely
felt, and efforts to better conditions
have len hindered by the fact that
each federal state has been able to
make independent regulations. This
will MM be corrected by a centraliza
tion of power."
Probably never before have such
'Weeping powers beep concentrated as
ire now granted Herr von Battocki.
I he now food dictator. Various coun
sellors will be assigned to him, repre
senting agricultural, trade, the mili
tary and the consumers, and repre
sentatives of the federal state and of
associations connected with the war
will aid him. Final decision on all
ouestlons, however rests solely in
Herr von Battoeki's hands. The regu
lations, of the federal council will not
be affected by the appointment of a
dictator but in case of prwiHing neces
sity, the dictator is even empowered
to issue contrary' regulations, but
these must be Immediately laid before
I he federal council for approval.
The dictator will be able to ap
propriate all foods and fodder and
mav even establish fixed per capita
rations if necessary. The only ex
press limitation of the dictator's pow
ers is contained in the provision that
the new department's measures will
WQRKON RIVERS
0 Mill URDDHDC
HI1U nrtnDUlM
BILL COMPLETE
French War Office Describes
Fighting As Murderous,
Each Attack Preceded
With Violent Artillery
Fire. French Hold Out
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. May .-Consideration
of committee amendments
to the rivers and harbors appropria
tion bill was completed by the senate
today after two weeks of debate. The
only important change made has been
the restoration of a $200,000 appro
priation for deepening East river. New
York, which was put into the bill by
the house at the request of the presi
dent and stricken out by the senate
committee.
Many senators have amendments,
and Senator Kenyon and Sherman
have shown no signs of abandoning
their filibuster, so there is no saying
when a final vote will be reached. Op
position to the measure was stimu
lated today by an announcement by
Senator Taggart, democrat, that he
wouldnot vote for it unless ..the
143.000,000 total was reduced by fif
teen or twenty millions.
Over a vigorous protest by Senator
Smoot, the senate sustained a com
mittee provision for a preliminary
survey of the Urazos. Colorado and
Trinity rivers, in Texas, flood preven
tion and Ihe extent to which the na
tional government should cooperate
with the states in carrying out the
plans.
A special rule to provide for imme
diate consideration of the naval ap
propriation bill with night sessions, a
limited period of general debate and a.
final vote not later than Friday or
Saturday of next week, will be brought
into the house next Monday.
Majority Leader Kitchin an-
p nmimr
uiiLbLunnuiL
IS DEMAND FOD
GDL ROOSEVELT
CARRANZA TROOPS PLAN TO
VIGOROUSLY PURSUE BANDITS
take into consideration orders of the nounced this plan tonight after a
mlliltnry commanders. The date on heated debate between democratic and
vhich the new order of things will republican leaders on the floor during
become effective is to be announced which Mr. Kitchin and Republican
shortly. I Leader Mann accused each other as
The surrender by the federal states mis-stating what took place at their
f their prerogative indicates a reali- informal conference on calling up the
zation that existing conditions demand j measures. Mr. Kitchin insisted that
such surrender adequate bread stuffs : republicans had tacitly agreed to the
RM on hand, and It Is even likely that plan which democrats now plan to
the bread and flour ration for physi- I force through a special rule while Mr.
cat workers soon will be increased. Mann maintained that no understand -
Knough potatoes also are available to j ing has been reached.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
The Germans have replied to the
terrific French offensive in the Dou
uurnont legion with assault after as
sault and the deadly combat north
east and northwest of Verdun still is
in progress. Heavy masses of Ger
man troops have been thrown against
the picked French troops, whose sue
eeasful attacks won for them the
greater portions of Fort Douaumont
and considerable German territory
adjacent to the fort, of high strategic
value.
These newly captured ositions the
French have tenaciously held. l'ar-
tuular mention is made by the
r'reiich war office of the maintenance
of the position in Fort Douaumont
conquered by the Preach Monday.
The fighting at this point is charac
terized by Paris as "a murderous
struggle." Each attack was pre
ceded by powerful artillery prepara
tions.
Although they were hard held to
the northeast, the Germans would not
be denied at Le Morle ilomme and
after having been mowed down by
the French and machine guns with
sanguinary losses in several attacks,
finally gained a footing in trenches
to the west of this much fought for
position. Their tenure of the trenches
was short lived, however, for the
French, in counter attack, imme
diately drove yiem out.
Italy's first anniversary of her en
try into the war found her troops on
at least one sector In southern Tyrol
forced back by the great Austrian
offensive upon Italian soil, and in
general retirement to their main lines
of defense from the region south of
Kovere to the valley Sugana, south
east of Trent.
Rome admits that between the As-
lieu and Brenta rivers and in the
Sugana valley the Italians have fallen
back on their main lines of defense.
While Rome asserts that the opera
tions were carried out in perfect or
der after the Italians had repulsed
Austrian attacks against the ad
vanced line, Vienna savs that in the
retreat from Borgo the Italians were
forced across the border by the Aus-
trlaus. That the Austria mi have ad
vanced as far as the head of the
Lake Garda and the Sarca region, is
indicated by the Home official com
munication, which says that Austrian
troops assemblages have been ob
served in the Riva zone.
While along the Russian front the
usual bombardments have continued
almost continuously, in the Pripet
river region the Russians have re
pulsed attacks by the Turks and also
have dislodged the ottoman forces
from positions on one of the slopes of
the Taurus mountains. In their ad
vance on Mosul, with Mesopotamia
their objective, the Russians have oc
copied Serbecht.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
TOI'KKA, Kas., May 23 The one
clear note of this the most chaotic
condition in the history of American
politics is the demand for Theodore
Roosevelt." declared Henry J. Allen of
Wichita, temporary chairman, in
opening the progressive state conven
tion here today.
Mr. Allen predicted that the "only
thing that can keep Roosevelt from
the nomination at the republican na
tional convention in Chicago will be
the stand pat delegates."
"The contest will be between an Amer
ican with a strong program and one
who cannot say where lie stands," he
ss id '
"Theodore Roosevelt stands for the
Americanism of the unafraid; for na
tional honor and self respect. We are
going to Chicago next month with
the purpose of providing the greatest
American feast for the republicans to
come that you ever saw. I hope they
will meet the situation with the great
American spirit."
The convention voted to double the
representation sent to the national
convention and twenty-six delegates
will be elected.
Tne convention adopted a resolu
tion declaring tot Colonel Roosevelt
for president and instructed delegates
to vote for his nomination.
Thirty -two delegates were elected
the national convention in Cnicago.
COMPANY L., ARIZONA
G UARD IS MUSTERED IN
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire)
DOUGLAS, Ariz., May 23. Company L, Arizona
National iuaid has been mustered into the federal ser
vice, being the first organization of the First Arizona
infantry to be sworn in. It has 71 officers and men.
( onipany ( i, of Douglas, with 68 men, and ( !ompany
1 of Safford, with 75, are ready to be mustered in with
in the next few days.
Recruits are arriving daily from all parts of the
state and the regiment will probably be al full war
strength by the end of the month, according to officers.
There has been one desertion, it is reported.
Wilson Policies Condemned
WACO, Texas. May 22. The pro
gressive party Ol Texas, in state con-
BfStion here today, condemned the
policies" of the Wilson administra
tion; CI mmended the principles of
true Americanism and preparedness
as typified by Colonel Roosevelt." and
elected uninsu ucted rtsltif nSjti to tlu-
irogressive national convention. The
delegates were instructed to vote for
the re-election of H. L Borden of
Houston as Texas national committee
man.
German Attacks Fail
I'AKis, .May 23. ughting con
tinued with extreme violence on both
banks of the Meuse along the Verdun
carry the country through until the The indications are that virtually a front during the whole night. Tw
early crop is harvested, although it is i solid democratic majority will vote for German counter attacks on French
possible that the allowance must he the bill as reported by the naval com- positions on Hill 34 failed com
somewhat redured. It cannot be de- mlttee with its provision for five great i pletely.
nied, however, that Germany is likely I $20,000,000 battle cruisers. Dread
to approach nearly to a. condition of naught advocates are depending on
a vegetarian Kden in coming months.
The Local Anzeiger sums up the
"ituation as follows:
"It is no longer any secret that i
cert.n supplies are short, not so
rand as a result of the friendly ef
forts of our enemies, but as the re
sult of Inst year's poor harvest."
The Lokal Anzeiger refers to mis
takes in organization but says after
all the main reason for the existing
evils is the scarcity of supplies.
That the federal states surrender
of their constitutional rights as a pre
liminary to the creation of the food
dictatorship did not come without op
position is indicated by a dispatch
trom Stuttgart, where one branch of
the city council protested sharply
against attempts to introduce uniform I
food distribution throughout the em
pire, "at the expense of the south of
Germany" ,as the proposer of the
resolution of protest phrased it.
1 o
DIPLOMAT RETURNS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, May 23. Joseph C.
Grew, secretary of the American em
the senate to add about two battleships
to the construction program.
o
BIG HANGAR COMPLETED
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NORFOLK, Vc.. May 23 A large
hangar to house Rodman Wunnamak-
I er's big airship, the America, w hich
will begin tests here soon preliminary
to an attempt to cross the Atlantic
was completed today at the Atlantic
coas' aeronautic station
ihe Krench made lurther gains
within Fort Douaumont. The Ger
mans now hold only a small angle on
the northeastern corner of the fort.
Recapture by the French after
three months of the greater part o
Fort Douaumont is received with
great elation by the press and public
General Niveile, the French com
mander at Verdun, took advantage o
the fact that the Germans recently
have been concentrating all their at
tentlon on Dead Man's Hill, on the
(Continued on I'age Two)
MAYOR I ILL 1 CHARGES
Following News of With
drawal of Second Punitive
Kxpedition, Word Comes
Obregon Orders 30,(M
Troops in Bandit Hunt
SIMON IS -OUTUW US
THINNING RW ! IS KILLED IN
RUNNING FIGHT
OF THE MIS
PROHIBITION
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. May 23 Reports?
to the state and war departments to
day further indicated plans of the Ca
rranza government to vigorously pros
ecute pursuit of Chihuahua outlaw
bandits while the American forces re
main comparatively acquiescent.
Closely following news of withdrawal
from Mexico of the second American
punitive expedition sent from Boquillas.
Texas, information reached the state
department that General Obregon had
ordered 30,000 troops to join the ban
dit hunt in Chihuahua and along the
Big Bend border.
Delay in opening diplomatic negoti
ations over the question of American
troops remaining in Mexico also was in
dicated in official dispatches state de
partment officials said that receipt of
the new note being prepared by Gen
eral Carranza was not expected before
next week. It was thought probable
that retirement of the Big Bend expe
dition to American soil had presented
a new situation in connection with rep
resentations contemplated in General
Carranza's new note.
Secretary Baker said tonight that the
Sibley -Langhorne expedition was not
withdrawn upon orders from. Wash
ington. Officials here believed the
(American forces lost the "hot trail" of
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DoFGLAS, Ariz., May 23. That
starvation is rapidly decimating the
ranks of the Yaqul Indians as a re- , . ' maining across the border.
suit of the de facto troops having la , ,', ,..,,, I Whether the 116 national guardsmen
. . . , i ,.f j! ' , . , ' , ' ,. of Texas who refused to be mustered
d.iven them from their sources of liB being closely pursued, according to jmo federa, ce
food supply, was the statement of an official ,,-port today from General martiaIed has not' been determine1.
Colonel Miguel S. Samaniego, who I Trevino. Judge Advocate General Crowder to-
has arrived in Agua ITieta to visit; Some trouble makers in this city dav wi.h(ire,.. an orimion sll,mitted to
tried to stari l lens nere mis morning (;eneral Scott
TReuuGlican A. P. Leased Wire!
CHIHUAHUA Mex M iv ''3 i"" bandits who raided Glenn Springs
Tornas Bojae, 'leader of 'the outlaw ""MullUs. and retired because their
band that raided the Cotton ranches, TT T".".' s"
hay been killed in a running fight at
Sacramento and the rest of the band 1
MEET SET BACK
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN ANTONIO, Tex., May 23. Na
tional prohibition and vvomans suf
frage at the state democratic conven
tion met a severe setback late today
when the committee on resolutions
and platform prepared a report which
declared against national prohibition
ml national woman suffrage. The
report, to lie submitted tomorrow to
the convention, is not expected to be
adopted without a fight.
Reversal for the prohibition forces
were seen shortly after ihe conven
tion met at noon In a session of
less than an hour the temporary or
ganization was affected and commit
tee's named containing ,c maojrity of
Opponents of Thomas B. Love of Dal
las, candidate for national committee
man which was taken by many dele
gates to Indicate a setback for the
prohibition forces.
The committee report will urge the
ronomir.atioii of president Wilson and
of Vice President Marshall. Adequate
national preparedness will Is- advo
cated. The administration of Gover
nor James F. Ferguson will he endorsed.
hi.- family after a years campaign in
the Yaqui river valley. Colonel Kara
iniego predicted that the campaign
would be brought to a definite con
elusion within a few weeks, with the
hostiles scattered, their women, chil
dren and men in the hands of the
Mexican authorities and their moun
tain strongholds garrisoned by Mexi
can soldiers
The Indians have been driven out
of th supposedly impregnable Baca
tete mountaig range, he said. The
plan of campaign of the de facto
forces has been to strongly garrison
each town and ranch where food
could be obtained, while cavalry
commands patrol all' roads and moun
tain tralis.
As a result the greater part of the
men of the tribe, greatly weakened
by hunger, have been driven north
steadily toward the Chihuahua bor
der, traveling in small bands. The
old men and women have been placed
in concentration camps In Guaymas.
The children have been sent to Her
mosiUo and placed in a special school
which has been established for them
by General I'. Elias Calles, com
mander in chief of the Bottom forces.
Colonel Samineigo said that witli
the close of this campaign the Yacpii
problem will have been" settled def
initely and forever. Starvation is de
feating the warring tribes and they
will be relentlessly pursued until all
have succumbed to hunger and priva
tion or have surrendered.
Americans reaching here from the
interior confirm the- statement that
hunger is driving the Yaquis from
their native haunts. One case where
two Indian boys were discovered by
an American in a pitifully weakened
condition, was recounted by an ar
rival. Till- boys told the mining man
who found them that they and other
numbers of the tribe had been liv
ing for days on soup made from boil
ing cowhide, in which a few herbs
(Coift inued on Page Three)
chief of staff, which
by circulating the canard that war outlined the war department's author
had been declared with the United jty an(j ruies of procedure. General
State s. Hut they failed to create any jcrowder desires to consider whether
excitement. the new army reorganization hill, ust
General Ignacio Reyes has informed passed by congress, will affact the sit
fjenera Trevino from Jimenez tnat he uation.
captured the bandit, Abundio Her- The record of the Texas guardsmen
nandez, and a supply of rifles And in responding to President Wilson's
ammunition while searching for his call for border duty was defeated to
btother, Nicholas Hernandez. Villa's ;day by Representative Slayden of
chief of staff, who is reported in that Texas.
district. general Ramos has put "Less then three per cent of the
strong detachme nts up the Rio Florido , guard have failed to answer the sum
to guard the ranches there, which are mons," he said, "and in view of the fact
the only places where the bandits can that many of the men have families to
prov ision chemselves. General Mai- 'Support and other affairs which might
donado s.-nds word from Concho of Preven their immediate response, tho
the execution there of two officers ,"rport'n seems ver" sma11 u me"
and four soldiers of a Villa band, who! uMf Slayden produced figures to
hal received ,Jnn, sty. Thev w ere ho,w. that membership of the guard
shot for the robbery of a carload of 5f '""eased in Texas within the last
provisions destined for the Nice min- ' months and quoted General Fun
, . . ston as saying he thought the Texas
ing camp. The goods were recovered. ' ,r,,j .... ' .
. ti . . guardsmen had acquitted themselves
neneral Luis Herrera at Fftrral hfe creattably in the Mexican sitUation.
asked Genera Trcv .no that the bal- Settlement of the railroad strike i
ance of his brigade be sent him in 'vovurui yovin i.;. k , ,
oner to strengthen the outside points in state department advices. Trains
of Batten and Roaario, Magistral Cie- Monterey were reported operating as
DegUiDa, Fl Carmen and Guanacevi. j usuai as wel, some mlnes smeiter.s
A number of mines have resumed and other industrial plants. At Piedras
working there and General Herrera Negras, official advices stated, railroad
expects for their benefit to run trains shop employes returned to work yes
daily from Rosario to Jimenez. With terday and traffic has been resumed
stronger garrisons, he believes that , through trains from - Mexico City ar-
other minis will he Induced to open. riving there daily.
Renewed activity of bandits near
Acapulco. on the west Mexican coast
was reported.
NEGROES ELIMINATED
N THE H TAPPING CASE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire The mayor's allegations were
NEW YORK, May 23,-Sensational I lm!pted by the indictment in
. . ., . ' ' ' Kings county e arlier in the day of
Charges by Mayor John Purroy Ki ,,u , commissioner
Mitchell against some of his "co-re- , f chartleSi and William H. KotchktSS,
ligtonlsts in attempted Justification! .... ... h.ritb de-
nassy at tsernn was a passenger or ! partment, for th'eir part in the "tap-
the Danish steamer Frederick VIII Investigation conducted by a commit- JT.i ,lf t.Anllnno wir The chief
'Republican A. P. Leased Wire
FoRT WORTH. Tex., May 32 Ne
groes were eliminated as voting fac
tors in the Texas republican conven
Hon here today. Contests over seat-
Ascension Mayor Protests
EL PASO, May 23. Complaint
against the actions of the American
troops at Ascension, in the Casas
Grandes district tL-nc m i i k..
liUyira
question was prominent, occupied the
in Juarez today in a telegram
convention throughout the day and
made a night session necepsary for
election of clelegaies to the national
convention and the transaction of oth
er business.
which arrived at Quarantine tonight
from Christlania. The vessel will
dock tomorrow. Mr. Grew refused to
discuss his mission to this country.
Mr. Grew said he would go immed
iately to Boston.
. .,r...lr. ,.A I... It un.:. " " " V
. , "J'' " T I """"T witnesses against them before the
into the affairs of Roman Catholic ; Werc Cathollc clerg,men.
charitable institutions ,n this city, Mitchel and Police Commis-
were made late today before the eTsIoIter Woods -were witnesses before
et-uu vh I'ljiniriiLiet neaueu tv istau
Senator Uteorge F. Thompson.
President Approves Bill
For Council On Resources
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, May 23 Creation
of a national council to mobilize the
industrial resources of the country
lor use in time of war is proposed In
a bill, approved by President Wilson,
introduced today In the house by
Chairman Hay of the military af
fairs committee.
The measure would provide for a
council to consist of seven members
of the cabinet, with the power to
nominate for the approval of the
president an advisory commission of
Jsev-fn members specially qualified to
j aid in making a survey of the indus
tries of the country and to create
relations that will "render possible in j tions to the reading 'of the conversa
the Jury but were not indicted, al
though the presentment of the jury
declared they merited "a most severe
condemnation" If they approved wire
tapping "merely to furnish counsel
with Information in a law case or to
gratify curiosity."
Mayor Mitchell became a witness
with the avowed purpose of making
public telephone conversations over
heard by the police which, he declared,
justified the wire tapping.
Alfred J. Tailey, counsel for some of
the clergymen involved strong objec-
Bryan Choice of
Prohibitionists
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO, Mav 23. If he will con
nt to make the lace, William Jen
nings Bryan mav be selected as the
prohibition purt.v candidate for presi
dent..
Statements of Mr. Bryan before the
general conference of the Methodist
Episcopal church at Saratoga Springs,
N. Y , in which he was quoted as de
claring that he had about reached the
point where he could no longer follow
political patty which refused to en
dorse national prohibition, was dis
cussed by prohibition party leaders
here today. Thev expressed the be
lief that if the democratic national
convention at St. Louis declined to
adopt a national prohibition plank In
its platform, Mr. Bryan might consent
to become the candidate of the prohi
bition party for president.
The prohibition national convention
will be held at St. Raul, July 19 to 22.
time of need the immediately concen
tration and utilization of all industrial
resources of the nation."
None of the men engaged in the
work would draw sala'ties, only their
actual expenses being paid. An initial
'ppropriation of $200,000 is asked for
the work of the survey during the
first year.
tions in the mayor's publication or any
part of them. The attorney asserted
the alleged conversations were taken
down on a slate in long hand by four
police officers and were presented to
the charities investigation committee
which refused to receive them on the
ground it would be improper to have
them go on the record.
VEILED GIFiL 1ES WITH BAND.
THAT ROUTS GAR RANZA GARRISON
(Continued on Page Three)
tive rewound it each time. Instead.
however, of stuffing the end in lightly i
. . ... . , . i
Bryan Non-committal
WASHINGTON. May 23., Former
Secretary Bryan, here t. might to attend
a dinner given in his honor, said he
never had heard of the possibility of
bis being nominated for president on
the prohibition trrket, "and never ex
pecteti to hear pf it except through the
newspapers."
He declined to treat the subject
seriously enough to answer a direct
question as to whether he would ac
cept the nomination if it were tendered
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
FIELD HEADQUARTERS, May
(By motor truck to Columbus, N. about the neck, in soldier fashion, the
M.. JIa' 28.) Tile soldadero of veiled person carefully patted the;
Nnmiquippa, the girl soldier from the 'fabric into place about forehead and'
town of Namiquippa whose presence temples. Observing this, one of the
with the Villistas has been rumored I American pursuers stopped his fel
since the Columbus raid, has been lows with this shout:
definitely identified as a member ofj "Good night, it's her. Don't shoot."
the bandit organization in the Ojos j The young woman made her es
Azules fight on May S. This fact cape. Her presence with the ban
was learned today from men whodits afterward was verified,
made the cavalry charge and the long " '
chase of the demoralized Mexicans in
that fight. The young Boldadera
not a Columbus raider, but about
week afterward, when Villa routed
the Carranza garrison at Numiquipa.
200 miles south of the border, she
disappeared- from her home.
At the ojos Azules fight one of the
first persons to run from the Mexican
stronghold was a Utile, slightly built
individual in trousers, with
REPORT OUTLAWS SHOT
IS NOT CONFIRMED
BROWNSVILLE, Tex.. May 23.
! Reports that Colonel Luis Morin
I and Victoriano Ponce, alleged Mex- I
I ican outlaws, had heen killed by 1
Texas rangers, seventv-five miles
i north of Brownsville last night j
! When the Mexicans attempted to
! escape from cm-tody, still were j
without official confirmation to-
! night The sheriffs of Kleberg j
I and Wallace countiei reported they
I had not .seen Morin or Ponce since
I they were turned over to rangers
! vesterday. presumably to Je
t brought to Brownsville, where
murder charges have been placed I
I asainst them.
It was suggested that possibly I
1 the rangers nad taken the two men I
to some isolated place for safe
I keeping.
a 1
B Spread Reports To Incite
c Mexicans Against Yankees
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
FIELD HEADQUARTERS, NAMi-
wliite 1 Ql'IPA. Mex., May 23. (Via Radio to
veil over the sombrero, who leaped Columbus, N. M.) The Carranza gar
upon a barebac ked horse and rode rison at Madera is engaged in spread
safely into the hills. After the j ing reports calculated to stir up both
slaughter at the ranch, when the j soldiers and natives against the
cavalrymen were beating up the hills Americans, according to a report re
in small parties, three Mexicans were ! ceived here today from that place,
seen in flight, one of them being the j No clashes have been reported, how
person in the white v eil. The sol-1 ever, between members of the ex
diers thought this make-up he- i pedltlon and any of the Mexicans,
frayed the woman, but suspected that .Meantime the expedition is quiescent,
it might be a disguise adopted by an patrolling only a limited district to
officer to facilitate his escape. Tho -the south. ( 'arranzistas are keeping
veil kept coming loose and the fugi-jaloof from the American detachments.
General Pershing. through the
press correspondents, thanks the
American women who are contribut
ing luxuries to the troops, but an
nounces that the men are amply
supplied with clothing and books, and
a further deluge of candies and deli
cacies would burden the army trans
ports. .The members of the expedition are
in the best of condition physically.
Dentists who have lately joined the
medical staff here have proved a
welcome addition to the army, however.
