A.
THI8 PAPER Issued in
Two Sections Section
two—Pages 1 to 8—Lo
cal news, stories, corre
spondence and Denison
locals.
VOL. 51
COMMENCEMENT
AT COLLEGE
Pleasure to Week of Entertain
ments—Large Classes.
Commencement time is again at hand
for the Denison Normal & Dusiness
inffiniSta^Sni^lS
08
commencement week. Commencement
The next event of commencement
week will be the class play, which will
be given at the Germania opera house
on Tuesday evening, June (ith. The
class has chosen a play entitled "The
Tyranny of Tears," ami it is a delight
ful little comedy that lias met with
much success wherever presented. It
is a combination of the comical, the
serious and the philosophical, which
causes the audience to think while
they enjoy the humor of the situation.
We understand that the play has been
translated into German and given with
success throughout the empire. The
London Times, in speaking of the
play, says: "No English dramatist of
our times has turned out a more
humorous or more human work than
this delightful comedy." The students
of the college have always taken great
interest in dramatic work and it lias
been the privilege of our people of
Denison to s°o some exceptionally
Kood productions put on by them. The
cast for class play this year is ex
ceptionally strong and the participants
have their roles well in hand. The
cast of characters is as follows:
Mr. Carburjt Hubert VanNess
Mr. Geo. Gunning Carl Krauth
Colonel Armitage, Mrs. Parbury's
father Ralph- Brutsche
Mrs. Parbury Dorothy Tucker
Miss Hyacinth Woodward, Mr. Fur
bury's stenographer .. Edna Henry
Evans, Parbury's Melvin Uenule
icollegerecital,mostbutler.always
Caroline, Mrs. Parbury's maid
Hertiia Lehfeldt
One of the pleasing features of
commencement week is the
interesting Programs Arranged for music which is looked
Commencement Week by Students I forward to by the music lovers of Den
of Denison Normal College. 'son. The recital will be held on
Wednesday evening, .June 7th, at the
CLASS PLAY TO BE JUNE 6THH college chapel. No admission will be
charged and all are cordially invited
All Denison Looking Forward With! to
be
Present. The program consists
of vocal and instrumental numbers of
the five graduates of the music depart
ment.
The graduating exercises with the
commencement address will be held
at the Baptist church oil Thursday
college, and fond parents, brothers and evening, June 8th. The class has se
siisters are loking forward to com-1 cured Rev. Frederick W. Rvans, of
mencement week with its numerous Council Bluffs, to give the commence
festivities with considerable interest,
Nof nnlv thrma directlv associated with inusic department, a pait of
college quartet.
partmL**
of
en
week will be observed the week
Juno 4th to 8th.
Commencement season for the col
lege will open with the baccalaureate
sermon at the Methodist church on
Shnday evening, June 4th. The ser
mon will be delivered by Itev. J. C.
Tourtellot, pastor of the Presbyterian
church. It will be a union service and
all tiie pastors and churches in the
city are especially requested to unite
in the service.
0
J^ Preparatory: Prances Boyd
Hertha Lehfeldt. Fred Lochmiller,
Dorothy Tucker. Hubert VanNess.
Commercial: Alma Babbe, Emma
Brogden, Ralph Brutsche, Rudolph
Ericson, William Hansen, Ford Haw
ley. Elmer Her, Carl Krauth, John
I-ind. Melvin Remrte, Hubert VanNess.
...I<p></p>Brutsche,
1.
If
For this week we offer special values for Thurs
day, Friday and Saturday, featuring'exceptional qual
ity at extremely low prices.
NEW
RTHMOR
"Thcv certainly don't look like Dollar W aists."
Nor arc they Dollar Waists as this expression is
ordinarily understood, hut waists which we alone, iu
this city, can sell for just $1.00.
THEY ARE THE WIRTHMOR
This in itself is the highest recommendation as
to correctness in style as to the fineness of fabric
as to the daintiness and prettiness of trimming of ex
cellence of workmanship and perfection o! fit in fact
all that goes to make a Waist desirable.
If every one knew how good they were, every
one would buy them when wanting
inexpensive waists
The models illustrated will go on sale Thursday.
Come early if you do not want to court disappointment.
Sold here exclusively Ready to Wear Dep't.
FORMER RESIDENT
IN SKIN GAME
H. Kunze, Former Resident of Deni
son, Has Close Call From Being
Fleeced Out of $10,000.
"EASY MONEY" ON HORSE RACE
Sears McHenry, of the First National
Bank Was the Cause of the Plans
Being Thwarted—Kunze Easy
Mr. C. H. Kunze, a former resident
of Denison, but. now living on a fuit|
Shorthand and Typewriting. Ralph jnvestmont that he telegraphed his
N
Dlmn I
"LL RRT
Marie Connor. Rhea Cum-.
mings. Gertrude Day, Edna Henry,
Graco O'Connor, Hilda Rath, Alys
Swanson, Hubert VanNess, Loyal Voss.
Music: Verne Eggers, Minnie Lar
son, Jennings Newcom, Lillian Scott,
Hazel Shirk.
The alumni banquet will be held im
mediately after the commencement ex
ercises oft Thursday evening. It has
been the custom to invite the friends
of tiie graduates, old students and
friends of tiie college. Tickets to tiie
banquet will be sold for seventy-live
cents and it is requested that all who
can be present secure them early in
order that preparations can be made
for the right number of guests.
The Review office lias just complet
ed the printing of tiie high school an
nual, which was compiled by members
of tiie graduating class, assisted by
Miss Fay Cliamberlin, of tiie high"
school faculty. The annual is excep
tionally well edited with a complete
summary of the eVcnts of the school
year and contains nu\ny half tonus
and etchings. The book is a crodit to
the staff which issued it and will serve
as a pleasant reminder of school days
in years to come.
Mr. and Mrs. C. E. Liscomb are vis
itors in Denison today from Dunlap.
Second Floor.
smw.
farm near Worthington, Minn., had u|Hem'.y
banker at Worthington, Minn., for a
loan of ten thousand dollars. It was
a fixed horse race and ho had met the
"steerer" in a casual way and heard
the story of a poor man who had just
won a thundred and twenty-five thous
and dollars, who was traveling through
the country with a horse that could
beat "anything," but some crafty Mis
sourians had found a fleet scrub that
could beat the racier whenever re
quired. Mr. Kunze was given a chance
to see a little of the fun. He watched
the "steerer" and his friends bring in
big sums of money until the whole
amount reached a hundred and fivr
thousand dollars. It is even said he
counted the greenbacks, knew they
were good, and was permitted to car
ry them around in a handbag. Tiie
big final race was to be pulled off last
Tuesday, but when it was found that
Kunze was willing to invest a littl»?
money on the raco it was postponed
until Friday to give him a chance to
get his cash. He was held in such
high esteem by his new acquaintances
that they managed to have the race
postponed^ but it was impossible-for
them to loan him the money to place
on the race.
After receiving a telegram from his
banker at Worthington that it would
be impossible for them to furnish him
with a loan of ten thousand dollars,
Mr. Kunze telegraphed to the First
Just think what this means to you! An absolute
assurance that the styles are the very newest that can
be hail—the self-same styles that are being bought
by well-dressed women everywhere.
And what is surely of equal, if not greater impor
tance, is the fact that they are such remarkable values.
Small wonder it is that these blouses always meet
with such a ready sale.
See these blouses. They are the
ever-desirable
Welworths, and can not be bought in
any other store
A Special Showing of High Grade Dresses for this Week
One Lot of Dresses at $12.50
Values that formerly sold at $25.00. As this lot
is limited we would advise early selection. They are
shown in (leorgette srepe and taffeta combinations,
serge and silk combinations and crepe de chines. In
fact, this offering includes every dress in our stock
that fonnerlv sold at $19.00 to $25.00. Priced at $12.?)
COM!•". KAKLY!
THE DENISON REVIEW
THIS WEEK'S NEWS THIS WEEK, NOT NEXT WEEK.
DENISON, IOWA, WEDNESDAY, MAY 24, 1916
National bank here in Denison, ask'
ing them if they would accommodate
him with a loan of ten thousand dol
lars. The Denison bank hail accom
modated Mr. Kunze in the past, and
knowing him to be a reliable and well
to do farmer, sent him a reply that
the loan could he arranged. Mr
Kunze arrived in Denison on the eve
ning train Thursday and went direct
ly to the home of Mr. Sears McHenry
and, not finding him there, met. him in
the private office .it the bank. He ex
plained to Mr. McHenry that he was
very anxious to .secure ten thousand
dollars in cash or a draft for that
amount as he had a deal on for a sec
tion of land near Excelsior Springs
which he would be able to purchase a1
a most attractive price. He explained
narrow escape from being fleeced out the loan was arranged, Mr. McHenry
of ten thousand dollars in cash by
some confidence men at Excelsior
Springs, Mo., last Friday. It was
through the efforts of Sears McHenry
that the plans of the swindling gang
were tliwiirted.
From all reports it seems thata
swindling gang has been making head
quarters at Excelsior Springs for the
past few weeks, and it was while Mr
Kunze was.visiting there lor his health
that lie was taken in by several smooth
men. Kunze was a ."Mike" ami so
enthused was lie over a "sure thin,
enterprise that would return dividends
many times larger than the original
Qf th{j dea Hanker M(
an,i
making out a mortgage on Mr. Kunze's
land near Worthington, which was
properly signed and mailed to Mrs
Kunze for her signature. It was not
until Mr. Kunze expressed some sur
prise that he would not be allowed to
take the cash itself to Excelsior
Springs, or a draft for tiie amount
himself, that Mr. McHenry became
dubious, although he explained that
the money would be available at a bank
at Excelsior Springs, where the deal
could be carried through. Mr. McHen
ry explained that he would telegraph
the bank at Excelsior Springs to fur
nish the amount specified when the
papi-rs were drawn up. Mr. Kunze
left Denison on the 10:nr p. m. train
Thursday for Council Mlufl's and was
to catch an early morning train out
of there for Excelsior Springs. At'tei
Mr. Kunze left the bank Mr. McHenry
thought the matter over and derided
that it would be best to investigate
matters before allowing the bank at
Excelsior Springs to turn over tiie
money. He telegraphed to the ticket
agent at Council Bluffs to have Mr
Kunze, when he called for his ticket
for Excelsior Springs, telephone liiin
but in the meantime detectives a'
Council Bluffs had got wind of the
matter and early Thursday morning
were conferring with Mr. Kunze. and
after considerable trouble, convinced
him that lie was in the hands of confi
dence men. Instead of taking the
train for Excelsior Springs, Mr. Kunze
departed for his home at Worthington
Minn.
M. J. Coleman, a railroad conductor
of Creston, Iowa, was duped out of live
thousand dollars at Excelsior Springs
last Friday, probably by the same
gang that were trying to work Mr.
Kunze. Coleman -'went to Excelsior
Springs last month: and while there
ho heard, of a club house where the
elite of the racing fraternity gathered
and "cashed in." on their sure tips.
Soon excitement moved throughout the
(Continued Page 3.)
We Want Every Woman In Crawford County to Get Acquainted With Our
WIRTHMOR WAISTS AND WELWORTH BLOUSES
which we offer in our enlarged blouse department
RAID CRAP GAME
SUNDAY NIGHT
Big Raid Pulled Off Sunday Night by
Marshal Weeks and Nightwatch
Greene—No Arrests Made.
RING LEADERS NOTIFIED TO STOP
Common Occurrence to Have a Big
Game Pulled Off Every Sunday—
Big Money Changes Hands.
It is generally understood that there
is a gambling ring in Denison, which
is fast growing in proportions until
it is already composed of from fifty to
seventy-five members. Not only men
are engaged in the gambling, but it is
said that school boys not out of their
"teens" can be found with them.
"Crap shooting" seems to be the fav
orite game among these masters of
high finance who improve their time
in some out of the way place by trying
to win some one else's hard earned
money. It is said that it is not an un
common tiling for as much as $200.00
to change hands during one of these
sessions.
,.
,t seemed so plausible thai
Only last Sunday evening Marshal
Weeks and Nightwatch' A. C. Greene
received two phone calls from parties
residing near the I. C. depot, advising
them that there was a crowd at the
tower house that were gambling. At
lo o'clock the two officers decided to
raid the place and journeyed down to
the tower, but they were seen by some
of the confederates and the alarm was
given. The officers arrived just in
time to see the party break up, some
fleeing to the underbrush along the
liver banks and others down the track
while one or two endeavored to hide
under the platform. When the officers
went into the tower they found noth
ing that would show that gambling
was being indulged in so no arrests
were made, but we are told that two
or thsee of the ring leaders have been
notified that the business must^ stop
or there would lie serious consequen
ces to follow.
Every effort should be made by the
local officers to put a stop to this
garmbling which has been so common
in the city tor the past year. If nec
essary to break up the gang a detect
ive should be secured to spot every
man who indulges in it. Denison lias
too much at stake to let its reputation
j^e drugged down because a few irre
sponsible fellows have nothing else to
do but play poker and shoot craps.
Mr. George Piper, Mrs. H. Piper
and Mr. and Mrs.'Frank Piper autoed
down from Vail this forenoon for a
brief visit with friends iu the city.
These New $2.00 Blouses Will go on Sale Wednesday in the Metropolitan Style Centers of the
Country—And They Will go on Sale in Our Store at the Same Time
A Special Offering of China Silk, Tub Silk and Crepe de
Chine Blouses Surpassing Any Showing We
Have Offered Heretofore
China and tub silk blouses.. Values to $3.00.
Shown in tailored and dressy effects. I'riced at $1.98.
Crepe de chine blouses, in pink, gold and white.
Very dressy. The front is shown both with plain and.
colored' embroiderv. Values as high as $4.50. Priced
at $2.47.
A Wonderful Showing of Beautiful Blouses in
Crepe de Chine Only. Values as high as $10.00 are
in this lot. I'riced in two lots at $.1.98 and $5.00
Exclusive Blouses at $7.50. Just received Satur
day of last week. These would be marked to retail at
$12.50. Made tip in (leorgette crepe. Colors are flesh,
white and a fashionable brown. I'riced at $7.50.
Complete Clearance of Odds and Ends
In silk dresses shown in channelise and poplins,—
in fact, every odd dress in our store is offered at this
time. I'riced at $2.'N and $4."S.
Menagh & Co.
Denison, Iowa
COMMITTEE TO DES MOINES
Special Committee to Present Deni
son's Claims for Baptislt College
to Go to Des M9ines Friday
The special committee appointed by
the Commercial club, composed of
•Judge Conner, C. L. Voss and H. Nor
man, to present Deuison's claims for
the proposed Baptist college, will meet
with the committee of Baptists in De
Moines Friday of this week.. The Bap
tist committee, who will decide on tiie
Ipcation of this new college, are meet
ing representatives from the different
cities in the state. Denison has made
the Baptists most flattering induce
ments, offering to donate tiie present
college, together with the beautiful
catnpus and almost ten acres in addi
tion. We are told that Des Moines
does not intend to have the college
moved from that city and consequently
is going to make additional induce
ments to have it remain. The matter
will be settled in tiie near future, and
Denison people earnestly hope that it
will be decided to locate the college
here.
TALK ON EQUAL SUFFRAGE.
Stiltz Wilson, Ex-Mayor of Berkeley,
Cali.. Gave PleaSjng Talk Last
Night in Front of Theater.
Mr. Stitz Wilson, ex-mayor of Berke
ley, Cali., spoke in Denison last eve
ning in the interests of equal suffrage,
to be voted upon at the election June
rtli. Mr. Wilson was entertained while
in the city by those who are prominent
in the suffrage movement and he was
escorted about town in an automobile
bedecked with yellow banners bearing
the words. "Vote Yes on June 5th." The
address was delivered on the street
corner out in front of the First Nation
al bank at S o'clock and the speaker
was introduced by Mr. J. B. Lyon. Only
a small crowd was in attendance,
which was probably due to the fact
that very few people in this communi
ty are interested in the movement.
While Mr. Wilson is a fine speaker he
did not present to his audience any
Mr. and Mrs. John Birkliofer, son,
Elmer, and daughter, Anna, were up
from Dow City yesterday shopping
and visiting with friends. While in
the city Mr. Birkliofer took occasion
to call at the Review office and extend
his subscription to the Review.
,'jma'iKUfimii nil mwai^yp^f •LM«wa»rw
If you know of any
news kindly hand or
phone the Review News
department.
No. 21
CONTRACTS FOR
ROAD WORK
Special Meeting of Supervisors Held
Monday When Contracts for Large
Amount of Road Work Let
WORK IS TO BEGIN AT ONCE
Eight Contractors Entered Bids on the
Work and Supervisors" Pleased
Except on Groupe 4.
Tiie board of supervisors held a
special meeting at the court house on
Monday afternoon of this week for the
purpose of opening bids and letting
contracts for a considerable amount
of permanent road work. There were
live jobs in all, one of them located in
Iowa township, being three miles of
grading on the road between Manilla
and Manning, where 32,094.5 cubic
yards of dirt are to be moved. Groupe
2 consists of 1500 yards of fill in Sec
tion 5, Denison township Groupe 3,
711)4 cubic yards of fill between Sec
tions 15 and 22, Paradise township
Groupe 4, Charter Oak township, be
tween Sections 22 and 27, where 18,821
cubic yards are to be moved, and
Groupe 5. Charted Oak township, be
tween Sections 23 and 24. where 10,090
cubic yards are to be moved.
In all eight contractors entered bids
on the various jobs, they being P. J.
Ryan. E. J. Wilson, J. W. Bauman, M.
Mill, W. R. Shipnian, Thos. Carey &
Sons, T. H. Finneran & McMahon,
Carstens and Khlers. The board was
well satisfied with the bids as made
with the exception of -the bids on
Groupe 4, which were rejected, and
this contract will probably be let at
some future date.
The contracts were' allowed as fol
lows: Groupe 1 to McMahon. Carstens
and Elilers, at 17c per cubic yard
Groupe 2 to P. H. Finneran at 22c per
cubic yard Groupe 3 to P. H. Finner
an at 20c per cubic yard, and Groupe
definite results obtained in other 5 to Thos. Carey & Sons at 17.9c per
states where suffrage has been grant
ed. He appealed more to the chivalry
of man to extend to woman the same
privileges which they themselves en
joy as citizens of tiie great United
States. No special argument was pre
sented by the speaker in favor of the
cause and it is doubted whether lie
converted many votes to the cause.
cubic yard.
The successful bidders expect to
start work within the next few weeks
on their contracts so as to have the
work completed some time this sum
me.'.
Special Offering of Suits for
This Week
\Ye have just forty suits
to offer in this showing. The
entire lot is made up of all
the advanced season's styles
and in fact some of them
have been received in our
stock within the last week.
If you need a suit for dress
or street wear it will be to
your interest to make your
selection at this time. Some
of these suits that we are of
fering could go into our fall
lines, but it lias always been
our policy never to carry
suits into the advancing sea
son. Therefore we have
made special prices in order
to dispose of every suit this
week, ending Saturday night.
We have disregarded
profits in every form and of
fer the entire showing this
week in three lots:
Lot Xo. 1. (iarments that
formerly sold at $19.50. Pric
ed at $11.97.
Lot Xo. 2. (iarments that
formerly sold to $20.50.
Priced at $14.l7.
Lot Xo. 3. Suits that form
erly sold ti]) to $32.50.
Priced at $16.97.
The clerks at the Boys' store sur
prised Miss Edna Schnoor when they ..'
gathered at her home Tuesday eve
ning and -presented her with an elec
tric toaster. The self-Invited guests
took well filled baskets with them and
during the course of the evening delic
ious refreshments were served. The
occasion was planned in honor of the
approaching marriage of Miss Schnoor.
lijti ,y.w„ "j?
sj?
7354
,1
