Crossville Chronicle.
THB TINNIMII TIMM 1 CONSOLIDATED
OROMVIUI OHRONIOLI I ,SOS
VOL. XXX. CROSSVILLE. TENNESSEE. WEDNESDAY. MAY 24. 1916. NO. 21
i i
CATTLE INDUSTRY
Most Important Here. But Can Be Much
Improved by Proper Breeding.
That cattle raising is the most im
portant industry ot this section no well
informed person will pretend to deny.
It is equally well understood that the
business can be vastly improved, if
proper breeding methods are employed.
In several sections of the state the
banks have come to the aid of farmers
ana assisted materially in improving
the quality of the stock raised through
pure blood males, especially in cattle.
Knowing as we do the spirit that per
vades the managers of the First Na
tional Bank here, coupled with the
great benefits that are sure to come to
the bank in a business way, we have
not the least doubt that the bank will
be giad to co-operate with the farmers
of this section in raising the quality of
Cattle produced. As the case now is
very little can be accomplished, for
there are at least three to five breeds
of cattle that are in special favor with
certain cattle raisers. To supply bulls
for all these breeds would be entirely
inconsistent because such a diversity of
breeds could result in nothing other
than a mongrel mixture that would
produce more scrubs than we now have.
It, however, our farmers could come
to a common understandng and decide
on not over two breeds of cattle and
these two breeds be kept as much to
themselves as possible, there would be
much encouragement in the effort to
improve our cattle through pure blood
bulls.
Why would it not be a good idea to
call a mass meeting of the farmers of
the county and through that meeting
work out some plan whereby the mcsit
deiirable breeds might be sefecttd
not exceeding two breeds and then
arrange to get that breed of pure blood
bull .
We feel very strongly that if such a
condition could be brought about the
bank would arrange to very materially
assist the movement with funds for the
initial purchases.
Every farmer in the county realizes
the great importance of pure blood
stock and should be willing to lend a
helping hand to bring about such an
understanding and such conditions as
will rapidly reduce the present high
percentage ot scrub cattle.
If a few such men as John Q. Wyatt,
Harry Martin, Jere Morrow, K. K.
Dunbar, John Kemmer, L. W. Martin
and numerous others we could mention
will take this matter seriously in hand,
splenidd results would surely follow.
What do you say, gentlemen?
OLD CITIZEN 60NE.
Washington Brown Passed Away Mon
day, at Crab Orchard.
Monday morning at 1 :?0 J. Washing
ton Brown, more fami liarly known as
"Uncle Wash Brown," died at his
home near Crab Orchard as the result
of a ohysical breakdown. He was in
his 86th year and had resided in this
county all his life, tie was a man of
strong convictions and was a power in
the community.
The funeral services were held at
Haleys Crove church yesterday at 10 a.
in. and the remains laid to rest in the
cemetery here. All the children resid
ing in this state and many friends were
present.
The deceased was the fatber ot elev
en children, six daughters and five
sons, nine of whom survive bim. They
are Judge S. C. Brown, Athens; Mark
and Robert Brown, Rockwood ; J. F.
Brown, Crab Orchard; Mrs. Martha
Hammel, Chattanooga; John A.
Brown, Mrs. Gus Greer, Mrs T. S.
Flynn, Mrs. W. O. Kearley, Buhl,
Idaho.
Plenty of small single entry ledgers
at the Chronicle office ; 180 pages only
30 cents.
Crane s stationery rj the quire and
envelopes by the bunch at the Chronicle
office. Nothing made better than
Crane's.
If you have nominated a lady in tne
Chronicle Subscription Contest get
busy for her and you may bring her out
winner of the grand prize. That
means that you will get the handsome
26-piece set of Rogers silver FREE.
FORMER RESIDENT DEAD
Mrs. Maria Powell Died in Brooklyn, N.
Y.; Buried Here Sunday.
Mrs. Maria S. Powell, aged 61 years,
6 months and 13 days, died in Brook
lyn, N. V., Tuesday of last week and
the remains were shipped here for m
terrment. The remains arrived bun-
day afternoon and were taken direetly
to the cemetery, after being viewed by
friends in the waiting room of the de
pot. A brief service was conducted at
the grave by Rev. W. C. Martin of the
M. . Church.
A profusion of flowers eovered the
casket as a token of esteem and love
by those who had known her in her
early girlhood and by others who wish
ed to show respect to her son, C. W.
Powell, of Westel.
Relatives and intimate friends pres
ent were: C. W. Powell and wife,
Westel; Miss Hazel Anderson, sister of
Mrs. C. W. Powel, Cookeville; Karl
and Bryan Wheeler, Rhea Springs ;
Misses Bertha and Ethel Wheeler,
Dora Godsey and Jimmy Wheeler, of
Dayton.
Every courtesy that could be shown
by a sympathetic and kind-hearted peo
ple was evidsnced by the people of
Crossville, especially by those who had
been personally acquainted with the
kind and loving heart that was stilled
in death and those who had learned to
esteem her Fon, C. W. Powell, so high
ly. The reniai: s were laid beside her
husband, W. vV. Powell, who aied in
1878, a few months after their mar
riage, the deceased was the daughter
of Major Benjamin Bentley, who lived
on what is kiw as the Bentley farm,
one mile east or town. Only one son
war borfl irmolf. V WTVSiMI;
who is engaged as embalmer by the
undertaking firm of Lamb & Coulter,
Rockwood.
The deceased had been operated upon
recently and had practically recovered
when she was taken with pneumonia
and because of her reduced strength
passed away in a short time. Funeral
srevices were held in the home of R.
W.Powell, Brooklyn, with wnoni she
had been making her home tor some
time. The services were conducted by
Revs. Tenney and 1 awson, assistant
pastors of Plymouth church.
Rev. Tenney read the following pa
per commendatory or the life ot the
departed :
We are met here this afternoon to
join with each other in saying "Good
bye' to the form of one we shall see
no more in the flesh, ana it may be fit
ting for those with whom she lived for
fourteen years, whom she so much
loved and who greatly loved her, to say
some things about her that you will
be glad to hear. It also seems fitting
that these things should be said in the
room where so much ot her life has
been spent during the past rive years,
near the chair in which she sat looking
out into the light, near the sofa on
which she so often lay in pain, seeing
the flowers for which she liked to care,
and in mind again seeing her sitting
quietly by the evening lamp, seldom
speaking herself but always an inter
ested and sympatnetic observer. From
this room so dear to her she went to
what she clearly knew was only a
chance for life here in the flesh, but
her growing suffering was so great
that life here without the hope of
health could only be looked forward to
with dread, and she took her chance
without fear, with the most absolute
resignation we ever saw, knowing that
she was in God's hands and whatever
was to be would be for the best ; if she
recovered from the ordeal before her
i she would have health and comfort for
a few years, but if her age and long
suffering had so weakened her that she
was to pass on into another and higher
life it would be to find herself where
she would be more in the light than
she was here and add to her joy and
peace.
"Just before she left our home she
said, 'I do not want to leave you folks
but it is all right whichever way it
turns, I snail close my eyes here and
open them again in the great, new,
beautiful world and my work will be
laid out for me.' She said to Mrs.
Powell on Tuesday, not long before her
life gently ebbed away, 'Last night
I was happy, oh, so happy that I could
hardly bear it. ' Perhaps she was in
spirit in touch with oar great leader,
Abdul Baha himself, by whom she was
blessed, as also those whom she loved,
when she was quietly before him not
many years ago.
The doctor under whose tender and
skillful care she placed herself said to
us that she was the gentlest and
sweetest woman he had ever had under
his care, and we feel that it must have
been one of the greatest disappoint
ments ot his life that her vitality was
so low as to make it impossible for her
to overcome the after effects of an un
usually long and difficult surgical oper
ation. The operation itself was entire
ly healed but the ensuing pneumonia
proved fatal because of the fact that
her system had been so greatly weak
ened by the suffering of many years.
But her soul was not weakened;
that had grown into a state which it
seems to us is not otten attained to
here. She had really attained to
Peace, which may be greater than
Happiness itself. But she had much
joy in spite of her frequent and great
suffering. Living most of her life in
the country, she loved the birds and
the clouds and the beautiful growing
things. She knew the song and habits
and names of all the birds, and it was
always a keen pleasure to provide her
with books about il.cr.e humble and
happy creatures ot God and feel her
appreciation of sympathjyTith and
help for her joy in all sucdSholesome
pleasures. Coming to a great city tor
the first time in her life she entered
into such of its experiences as we could
give her with a thankful heart, and it
gave us great happiness to do what we
could to take her to stood U.roa. She
common or sensational in any., way.
4 At a Philharmonic concert, though in a
cheap seat, her ear was attuned to the
best music there to be heard. It was
sometimes hard to persuade her that
she must not give up these things to
others as she otten wished to do; for
her life was one of supreme service
and we feel that she was truly a ser
vant of God, perhaps the highest con
ditio which our souls can reach.
'To her faculty of appreciation in
the highest degree ot all lovely and
beautiful things we believe that there
now added to her real life the joy
which comees from the power of ex
pression, treed from the limitations
which hamper us all here we believe
that she is now beyond the veil which
kept her from the light that we all
long for and for whicn we ail hope.
Our Lord Jesus Christ said to his dis
ciples, 'I have yet many things to say
to you but ye cannot bear them now.'
May we not feel that our dear friend,
freed from these limitation?,, is now
hearing such of these things as we can
not yet understand.
"Just one personal word more about
our dear friend whose body lies before
us. On January '31st we had a little
joint family birthday dinner on her
birthday, which was also near the
birthday of some of the rest of us.
Simple toasts were given and the one
to her was 'To our dear Aunt Maria.
Last but not least ! She does not her
self know the depth and richness of
her own heart as we do, and we our
selves who love her may not always
know now much love and sweetness are
behind those rather quiet lips. May
her peace of heart alwavs continue and
bless us for many years. '
"Well! she is gone from our sight
and the Lord does not forbid us to
grieve when we lose for a time those
whom we love, but we do not mourn as
those that have no hope. We know
that she is in the hands of tne loving
God whom she trusted and devoutly
followed and it raises us nearer to Him
to have this spoken of one who so
dearly loved Him and all of us."
DO YOU KNOW THAT
Efficient muzzling of dogs will eradi
cate rabies?
The pretection of the health of child
ren is the first duty of the Nation?
Bad temper is sometimes merely a
symptom of bad heatlh?
Insanity custs every inhabitant m
the United States $1 per year?
The U. S. Public Health Service has
proven that typhus is spread by lice?
Untreated pellagra ends in insanity''
In the lexicon ot health there is ne
iuch word as "neutrality" against dis
ease? The death rate of persons under 45 is
decreasing; of those over 45 it is increasing?
EYES ON THIS COUNTY
Interest Manifested in the Early
Much
Opening of the Memphis to Bris
tol Highway Through This
CountyWorking.
The following taken from the Sunday
Knoxville Journal and Tribune is very
pertinent to the situation in this county
and conveys to the public what many of
our people have been strongly advo
cating for years. The Journal and
Tribune says :
"Certain localities throughout the
south where good roads have not yet
been secured, but located along the
lines where through traffic wished to
go, have separated important sections
of the country and lost a very great
amount of through travel and visitors
from outside by failure to provide the
necessary roads for through travel.
"Such a condition exists at piesent
ih Cumberland county, Tennessee,
which is aboot the only difficult spot
left to a through route between Nash
ville, Memphis and western points to
the eastern branch of the Dixie high
way, at Knoxville, and from there on
to New York and the Carolinas.
"The Memphis to Bristol highway
between Nashville and Knoxville is in
very passable condition throughout
with the exception of the gap at each
end of Cumberland county which as yet
is ungraded. A part of the road
through Cumberland county is in good
graded passable condition and the eyes
of hundreds ot automobilists in west
ern points are turned on this gap and
the nossibilitv of Cumberland county
Bristol highway.
"Roane county, the adjoining county
on the east, has furnished a macadam
ized road to the lice and from that
point the tourist can go in almost any
direction, either turn south to Chatta
nooga on the Dixie nignway or come
east to Knoxville and then to New
York and the east by way of Bristol
through the Carolinas when the Ashe
ville road is finished this tall.
"Cumberland county has appropriat
red some funds for this purpose and it
is believed that she will take up this
work and complete it this summer and
it is hoped by- hundreds of motorists
that this will be the case. She has also
appropriated some money for north
and south roads in her county which,
while being considerable local benefit
would probably not draw through travel
in the way of bringing outsiders into
the county, for lack of through con
nections. There is no county in this
section which would be more benefited
tnan Cumberland county by having
through tourist travel passing through
it and thereby acquainting the general
public of its great undeveloped re
sources from close at hand view, such
as is possible to secure only from leis
urely trips stopping over at various
towns as when traveling by automo
bile. "ihis county has much beautful
scenery and great possibilities tor the
opening up of pleasure resorts provided
it could be easily reached by motorists
from Nashville, Knoxville an Chatta
nooga. "As stated above, that county has
some funds for completing the east and
west connections of this road, thereby
supplying the link which is missing in
a great line for through traffic, and the
hope of Tennessee motorists and those
of other states is that they will succeed
in getting the road through during the
coming summer and their funds will
be sufficient for this purpose.
"The present line of the road runs
through Crossville from which there
are two possible routes to Nashville,
one by way of Sparta and one by way
of Cookeville, both of them having
been spoken of for the Memphis to
Bristol highway.
"The great highway from San Diego
to Washington, known as the Southern
National highway on which an im
mense amount of work is being done,
also requires Cumberland county as a
necessary link. This route runs from
San Diego through Tennesseejby way
of Memphis to Nashville, Knoxville,
and thence to Asheville, Richmond,
j and Washington.
"It will doubtless only be a short
l time before hundreds ot western auto-
I "ill be traveling eastward
uvcr bilis xuuie ill 1.11c wuitc., wiring w
the fact the famous Lincoln highway
between California and New York is a
very difficult proposition during the
winter months on account of snow and
there is a strong chance for this south
ern route to get the bulk of the east
and west tourist travel between the
Atlantic and Pacific, especially in the
winter mnnths.
"The fact that many home seekers
now use automobiles instead of railway
trains makes the value of good roads,
especially of a through road, much
greater to any locality than ever be
fore and Cumberland county will be the
loser if it does not grasp the situation
and put itself in shape to get the earli
est start on through travel possible,
and also be in line tor federal aid on
through highways, which is apparently
becoming closer every duy and which
is sure to come in time. '
Work of surveying the line of the
Memphis to Bristol highway east from
Crb Orchard is now in progress and
the dirt is expected to fly in a short
time That the work will not be push
ed as rapidly as the commission wishes
seems sure because of the difficulty ex
perienced in securing men and teams
for the work. But the construction
will go forward a- rapidly as possible
and in a few weeks the way will be
open for automobiles to pass treely
from Rockwood to Crab Orchard.
Frcm Crab Orchard there is a splendid
J graded road to a point some eight or
nine miles west uf Cio?aville.
I Work will begin 'in the western end
I so s on as the commissi oners can get
' to it. Only six !? remafns to be
j opened to anal v utoo ! g". through
to Nashville.
a By a recent U. ml is uc the funds nec
o f esiwrjr w couipirur . 'lie Mempnis to
-f-Brtjrtfrf highway iLroutfh this county is
provided and the St; e is near at hand
when we will be corn? ted with the
outside world by a road that will equal
any of the auto mnd through the
sparsely settled sections of the state.
GOV. T. C. RYE RE-NOMINATED
Enloe for Railroad Commissioner and the
Ouster Law Sustained.
The deomcratic convention at Nash
ville last week resulted in the nomina
tion of Gov. Ry as the democratic
standard bearer this year. B. A. En
loe was chosen as the candidate to suc
ceed himself as railroad commissioner
in spite of strong opposition of tho
"regular" faction that seems deter
mined to get rid of the la; it of the in
dependent democrats. Enloe won fin
the fourth ballot by a vote of 709 to
575 for R. C. Walsh, his closest oppo
nent. Much opposition was In evidence
against the ouster law but when it
came to the "show down ' the Shelby
delegation voted for the plank of the
platform favoring it.
The convention was a stormy one but
after all matters were settll harmony
seemed to prevail and enthusiast!) for
the nominees was generally manifesto
ed. Ihere is little doubt, however.
that the Crump forces will
;ht Gov.
Kye in Shelby and he v.
I'also bo
Davidson
fought in Hamilton and
counties, because the whif!
sey rorces
are against him.
STORE RODDED AT WESTEL
E. N. Hargitt & Company Suffer Small
Loss; One Robber Cough t.
, Friday night, May 12, the store of
E. N. Hargitt & Co., Westel, was rob
bed. The manager being at Knoxville,
the burglars took advantage of his ab
sence, ine discovery shewed that
they had entered oy tearing off the
screen trom a window that had been
left up.
The robbers are supposed to have
been after money, but. were disappoint
ed as the money had been taken into
the house. Being defeated in getting
the money, they took such things aa
were in sight Among the articles
taken were a watch, revolver, a kodak,
two er three knives, unt of which was
a gold knife which wss a souvenir of
Mr. Hargitt's.
Mr. Hagitt kept still about it in tho
hope of getting a clue, which he got
last Friday. He, with Geo. vitatoe,
then went to Rockwood and atter a
short search, located their man and
with the assistance of the Kockwoad
police, landed one of the men in iai
For speoial reasons names of the sup
posed robbers are not given here.
