heaven bless thee, thou hast the sweetest face i ever looked on."--".
.- SILVER, 71 1 -2 CENTS-
Tonopah Daily Bonanza
METAL QUOTATIONS ,
THE WEATHER
8ilver
X Copper .
11
. 29-30
$7.3547.50
90
f Generally fair tonight and Thursday.
X Lead
Warmer Thuraday.
Quicksilver ...
rm w
VOL. XV--NO. 334
TONOPAH, NEVADA, WEDNESDAY EVENING, MAY 24, 1916
PIEl YEtLEiW MCKT
- m m m m ra , rzi (71 . (3
MM aT - A. . I aw I I :
0 0 B 111 ll liJ ir " " r- -
4 Dead and Fire Still Raging M Lower Level Smuce Last
POUK BOWES ON 1 600 LEVEL
HELMET CREW PIQBTiNQ PIKE
HURRICANE OF FRENCH GUN FIRE EXACTS
APPALLING DEATH TOLL FROM ENEMY
Simultaneous Attack on all Fronts
( .i--ll to hn HollHB.lt. I
VlHdINIA CITY, New, May 24. Fire broke out in the old
Uclcher works of tin- Yellow Jacket. Crown Point, Belcher Mines com
pany at 10:13 o'eloek last night. According to an employe a fuse
Mowing out in the compressor room -on the 1400 level started fire
in the timbers which spread with startling rapidity. , -
A liclmet crew that went into the mine is fighting the fire with
two (dreams and seeking the bodies of victims. They found only the
limit' of Thomas McDonald." Three other bodies, those ot rence
( usiile, 1). Olinto and K. Uattaglia have not yet been recovered.
All the victims were on the 1000 level and were suffocated while
trying to escape to a higher level. Xo other deaths occurred accord
ing to the management.
Tapping of the three men not found were heard up until one
o'clock this morning.
The fire area is not great and all bulkheads have been closed,
while fighting the fire from the Xew York shaft on the Caledonia
side. The fire is believed to be under control.
The Yellow Jacket mine is in the center of the Gold Hill group
-- " ' "
RSI2'N,FoLjV0N BUELOW MAY
I l Villi OIILLL LAI LVOlun
of Comstock mines, adjacent to such properties a.Ohe Crown Point
and Helcher. Its shaft is only forty or fifty feet from the high
trestle over which the .Virginia and Tuckee railroad enters (iold Hill.
The Yellow Jacket shaft is lf.OO feef deep, but the lowest level
wl,i,.h wnrk is heinsr conducted is the 1400. Here between 40 and
.-.I I miners are employed. This was the scene of the big fire in 1B09
hen 27 men lost their lives. Only a year ago there was a bad fire.
hut la. kinif fatalities on this level, and a number of trie miners were
engaged recoveryig the ground that was lost then when caving oc
curred afler the timbers were consumed.
There is a means of egress from the 14(H) level besides the shaft
and that is bv way of the Overman, a property which is not being
worked at present.
The Yellow Jacket on the 1400 is a mass of timbers, where fire
would spread rapidly and gases would -quickly form.' there are
water lines in the property and facilities for bulkheading against
fire. The Jacket mill has for some time past been operating on ore
extracted from this and neighboring ground. '
TODAY AND A YEA. AGO
Official reading! of the tber-
mometer by the United States
(By Aatociated Press).
l'AHIti, May 24. An Italian
Hhell blow up the Invest muni-
thins depot at Ro-rereto and the
town in now In flames, says a
dlHpatch.
OelLFIIICH
GREEK STEAMER SUNK
6Y AUSTRIAN TORPEDO
OF SHOW FELL
ANOTHER SETBACK FOR THE
HORTICULTURISTS TRYING
TO MAKE DESERT BLOOM
COME ON MISSION
foremost Statesman of Europe
Reported to be Assigned
to Washington
(By Associated Press.)
LONDON Mav 24. The KxchangoTelegraph company says n
learns from diplomatic circles that Prince Yon Heulow, ex-German
chancellor, is proceeding to Washington, charged by the emperor with
a special missiop. The dispatch says Yon liuelow will become am
bassador to the I'nited States.
(By Aatociated Press).
TARRAGONA, Spain, May 24.
Twenty members of the crew of
the Greek steamer iBtros have ar-
rived here by lifeboats. It is re-
ported the Iatros was torpedoed
by an Austrian submarine.
WILL
IIIUIR
It snowed last night. Everybody said
Hint they expected it for it felt like
snow all -afternoon. Hut when they
woke up this morning and saw the
uiirrmiiiitinir mountains mantled In
white they thought of the timid flow
ers which lmd begun to put forth their
tendrils and knew the storm spelled
ruin lor their Hardening efforts. Every
body should have know Letter, for
tills Ih one of the oldest confidence
Karnes enacted in Tonopah. The snow
was nothing unusual or unseasonable
as the weather man Insists that the
records of the Tonopah station show
there has been snow in the month of
May for all but twj years since the
station was established. The excep
tion wro mi a and 1914. To a de
gree further It may be stated for the
guidance of householders that in 1907
1 lo days in June showed a trace of
"now and pioneers assert that on July
4. ls02, before the weather station
opened, a heavy snowlall interfered
ilh the celebration of the anniver
siiry.
Lnsi night the snow fall reduced to
pieilpliiilon was seven tenths of an
Inch with the mercury standing at 23
at five o'clock this morning.
Yon liuelow is one of the foremost statesmen of Europe and has
been referred to frequently in the last few months as a man who
might be selected by the kaiser to conduct preliminary peace uegotia
tions should they be undertaken.
E
HI IUD
SECRETARY LANSING DIRECTED
TO ASK BRITAIN ABOUT
AMERICAN
observer at Tonopah.
1916
5 a. m 23
9 a. m 35
12 noon 39
2 p. m - 43
Relative ouuiidltr at 1
today, 31 per cent.
1916
47
60
61
58
i. m.
BUDEIS GETS
J
I
SENATE COMMITTEE VOTES TO
REPORT FAVORABLY NAME
OF BOSTON JURI8T
Bjr Amx-talei! 1'rraa.l
WASHINGTON, May 24. The en
ate judiciary committee voted by ten
to eight to report favorably to the
senate the nomination of Brandeis for
associate justice of the supreme court
It was a strict party vote.
TURQUOISE 0. E. S.
OLD
RECEPTIOI
(By Associated Preaa.)
WASHINGTON, May 24. State department officials are skepti
cal of the accuracy of the report that Yon Huelow is coming to Wash
ington on a special mission from the emperor. No intimation has
been received bv them that such a visit is in prospect.
(By Associated Preia.)
BKKLIN, May 24. The capture of the village of Cumieres, east
of Dead Man's hill, is announced. The village was taken by storm
So fur more than :i00 prisoners were taken by the (iermans in this
operation.
WOMAN
XECUTED
E
FOR TRIPLE CRIME
HEADSMAN, WITH BROAD AXE,
CARRIES OUT SENTENCE
OF COURT
MEXICANS
RUSHED
TO THE FRONTIER
CAVALRY ARRIVE FROM INTER
IOR TO BEGIN A JOINT
FRONTIER PATROL
llf tuiH-llilril Vrtmm.)
WASHINGTON, May 24. The sen
ate committee on foreign relations has
recommended a favorable report on
Senator Kerns resolution directing
ecretary Lansing to inquire regarding
the safety of Americans In Ireland In
districts where martial lew has been
declared.
EASTERN STAR GREETS VISIT O
MARIE BURDICK WITH A ' "tr
BANQUET
By Entente Allies Thwart
ed by Germans
By Aaaociated Preaa.)
I'AKIS, May 24. The battle of Verdun is raging witn'unexamp-
ed violence, the Germans striving with every resource m their
power to capture Hill 304, Dead Man's hill and win back Fort Douau-
mont. '
The tide of war ebbed and flowed all yesterday, when inches of
ground were won and lost at an appalling coRt in men. Repeatedly,
after reducing trenches to ruins by shells, the German infantry dash-
d forward only to be swept away by a hurricane of a curtain fire
from the French batteries and machine guns.
Describing the battle around Fort Douaumont, a combatant said :
The few trees still standing have been stripped and resemble tele
graph poles. Not for a second do the guns cease roaring or the men "
ease to fall." Last night the Germans took a portion of the village
of Cumieres and occupied a small part of the trench each of Fort
Douaumont .
(By Aaaociated Preaa.) i
' ROMK7 May 24. The purpose of the Germans in continuing their
Verdun campaign and the Austrians in pressing their offensive against
the Italians is to prevent an extended simultaneous attack by the
entente allies on all the fronts.
NO PEACE WITHOUT VICTORY
I Br Aaaerlated Pr.l
LONDON, May 24. An order of the day by General Von Hin-
denburg to the men on the Russian front says a Basle dispatch reads:
"The rumor among troops that peace negotiations are about to begin,
is having a bad effect on the morale of the men. There cannot be
any question of peace until we have crossed the Dvina. Soldiers if
you wish peace, go seek it on the other side of the Dvina."
DEATH OF THE MOTHER OF
MRS. J. E. FARRIS IN MONTANA
A telegram was received this morn
iIS by J. E. Karris digued by his wife
lallng thai her mother. Mrs. A. J. Mc
Corkle, had died last night at I.lhby,
Mont., of old as" and vk-m'k'i.hk uulull
et by the shuck of lier husband's
death two nmnlliB ao. M.. Karris
left Tonopah April 2lh for the ld
mile of her mother when she h. aiil her
Illness 'was likely to ba iatal.
MOOSE SMOKER POSTPONEO
illy A-liilril I'rru.)
ISKHUN, May 24. Henrietta Hoi
uleln was executed today for the triple
murder of her husband, daughter and
stepson by poison. The execution was
performed In the traditional manner
by a headsman with a broad axe.
'
FISHERMEN HAVE CLOSE CALL
IN PYRAMID LAKE 8TORM
-My AnclNfe4 tra.l
CIIIIIUAHITA, May 24. General
Gavira, the commander at Juarez, haa
been appointed commander of the
military zone on the frontier and 1000
cavalry have been sent to him to rein
force all garrisons at Important points.
IHf AoHnrrt Vma.1
DUBLIN, May 24. John Macneill,
president of the Sinh Fien volunteers,
was found guilty today by a court mar
tial for complicity In the rebellion.
His sentence will be promulgated with
in a few days.
SUNFLOWER SEED
USED FOR SALADS
8CHOOL CHILDREN INSTRUCTED
TO PLANT FOR THE SAKE
OF THE OIL
ItKNO. May 24. While fishing at
Pyramid lake yesterday Steve M tills
Ich. Krank Reilly and another Reno-
Ite had a n.ar?ow escape from per
ishing, but were rescued by
llera, with a motor boat. After pick
1H tK,Mlalr4 Prm.
COLOGNE, Germany. May 24. Gar
den planting of sunflowers for the
sake of the oil contained In the seeds
was all the rage last year. It was al
n kiifririentlv nnpriMNf ul sn that It Is
(iavlra has been ordered to pursue all . on , ,Hrge ,cale ,,
bandits until they are exterminated.
A report says Villa is hiding at Ha
ctendn Mlmbrern
wound.
while curing his
spring- The very latest suggestion Is
that the school children of Germany
shall utilize pari of their spare time
by systematically planting sunflower
along every mile of roa1 In the em
Last evening Turquoise Cbapte
No.' 10, O. E. S., entertained thei
grand matron, Mrs. Marie Burdlck, at
Its regular meeting In Masonic .Tern
pie, the occasion being her official
visit to her home chapter. The hall
was beautifully decorated. A most
enjoyable and Instructive evening was
spent. Among the guests were a num
ber of present and past grand officers
Including Past Grand Patron, Thomas
Lindsay; Associate Grand Conductor,
Mrs. Ella Armstrong of Goldfleld;
Grand Electa Mrs. Harriet Brown and
Past Grand Patron of Massachusetts.
Adam V. Brown.
The work was exemplified In a very
able manner, three new members be
ing added to the roll. The grand mat
ron complimented the chapter on its
efficient work. An excellent musical
programme was rendered and at the
close of the meeting the worthy mat
ron, Mrs. Clara Gaboire, presented the
grand matron with a set of silver.
A banquet was served, the table be
ing laid in the form or a five pointed
star, decorated In colors emblematic
of the several points. The following
toasts were responded to: "The Order
of the Eastern Star," Mrs. Marie Bur-
dick; "Fraternity," Thomas Lindsay;
Grand Chapter," Adam P. Brown;
Gold Nugget Chapter,- Mr. Johnan-
son; recitation, Mrs. waraie ana
Heorines of the Order," Mr. Hasman.
The closing number was an original
poem, "An Ode to the Grand Matron,"
by Mrs. R. B. Davis.
Much credit and praise la due to
the ladles who had charge of the affair.
A large delegation attended from Gold
Held.
TOIiOPAH ELKS LAVISH PRAISES Oil
ELY BUtlGH AS HOME OF HOSPITALITY
Tonopah lodge No. 1062 B. P. O. E. j soon after 6 o'clock.
.lUH'.K HEN W COLEMAN, Justice plre.
Olto of the supreme court of the State of.
Nevada, anld this morning from WILLIAM GOMM and wife. C. A
ins them hp It took Hers two hour , Carson City. In his capacity as grand I'errlne and wife, Howard Melvln and
to tow them hack to the ahor again, master of the blue lodge of Nevada, he Vn-rt McKadden. who attended the Klka
The Mmwe smoker set for this even
lti haa beco xmtoued on account of
the death of brother William Trabert.1 the other.
Due if the men attempted to jump! will visit the lotal locge of Masonry , gathering at Kly returned last even
from the boat, but waa prevented by, this evening and tomorrow will pay Ing and h tt la Mr. Perrlnee car for
. 1 a... I . 1 . . .W- f , t 1 . . t -1 I-. J 1 .. ft .a . 1 .L I.
an onieiai iinh iu intuwuiTn mug nuuna nmniBis ini h-ji
PRESIDENT AT WEDDING
IHt mM-lelt4 rra-.l
NEW YOKK. May 24 The presl
dent and his wife have arrived to at
tend the wedding this afternoon of
!r. Cary Grayson, the president's
naval aide and physician to Alice Gor
don of Washington.
JAMES KORMAN waa an arrival
fro at Oakland on today", train.
will never cease talking of the time
the members had at Ely as the gueats
of their eastern brethren. The whole
affair was managed with consummate
grace and skill. There was not dull
moment in the three days celebration.
The guests were not allowed to spent
a cent and were told wherever they
went that the white metal for which
Tonopah Is famous was not alegal
tender and there could not pass mus
ter In that community. From begin
ning to the end there was a cease
less round of festivities and, when, It
came to the parting, the visitors only
regretted that they had to deprive
the Ely boys of the Elks trophy which
they won by defeating the copper
miners for the second time. The Ely
team comprised some fifty conteatnata
while Tonopah was represented by
only five marksmen. The Inference
is that the Ely bunch laid down so as
to extend the Bcope of their hospitality
by awarding the trophy to Tonopah
Two invalids, resulting from the
journey, are moving around today with
battered faces, but otherwise In good
spirits. These victims of the joy ride
are Paddy Mooney and D. J. Fitzgerald
who would have been tossed out of
their car when it encountered a chuck
hole had their aviation not been
checked by the steel ribs ot the hood
which caught them athwart their faces
and left them with a coupte of black
eyes, bruised noses and injured feel
ings. The return trip waa made without
incident except that the atorm which
descended on Tonopah last night waa
overtaken twice on the Journey In the
form of a billiard which was encoun
tered both at Hot Creek and Clifford.
While passing through the storm the
touriata thought they were going to
have an Arctic camping out exper
ience Imposed on them, but they ran
so fast that the storm waa left be
hind In each case and the arrivals be
ta to rr. later at the ToaonaJk home
A. H. Jonea, superintendent ot the
Belmont mill established a record tor
the distance covering the 192 mllea
In seven hours and forty-five minutes
without a atop or delay of any kind.
The return trip was made In equally
good time as the car passed all other
on the road and was among the first
to arrive here.
The banquet waa attended by over
500 guests and probably waa the lar
gest ever given in Nevada. The ser
vice waa the beat and the appoint
ments of the table were most artistic.
Tonopah member agree that such an
entertainment could not have been
held successfully by any other group
of men than by the citizen of the
Ely district. -
M. H. COOPER, representing the
Louts Tausalg company of San Fran
cisco, arrived this morning.
BUTLER
HCATR2
FEATURE ALWAYS
TODAY
"THE FRUITS OF DESIRE"
A Big Drama In Every Sen
With
ROBERT WARWICK
In th Landing Role
Today I The Day Fee That
GREAT ANIMAL COMEDY
Dont Fail t Se It
TOMORROW
"THE PAINTED SOUL"
And
PATHS WEEKLY
FIRST SHOW, 7 MS;
SECOND SHOW. 8:4S;
MATINEE, 1:S
