I
ILL HEALTH CAUSES
COLONEL TO RETIRE
HAS SERVED STATE MILITIA
IN MANY CAPACITIES FOR
30 YEARS
TRANSFERRED TO GOVERNOR'S
STAFF AS COLONEL AT
OWN REQUEST
After having served in the National
Guard of the State of Minnesota in
every capacity from private to com
mander of the regiment for nearly thirty
years, Colonel John Buschers will re
tire from the service on June 30th of
this year. At his own request he was last
Wednesday relieved of the command of
Second and appointed as a member of
the staff by Governor J. A. A. Burn
quist.
An election for a successor to Col.
Buschers will be held at the state capitol
in St. Paul today (Wednesday), orders
for the election having been sent out by
Adjt. Gen. Wood last Thursday. The
election will be participated in by all of
the field and line officers of the regiment
and it is expected that the contest for
the honor will be spirited one, because
several candidates are lining up their
forces and the election may require a
session lasting several days on account
of the various factions in the organiza
tion.
While Major Mollison, the senior maj
or of the regiment seems to have the lead
on the other candidates because of his
many years of service the "Young Turks"
are lining up for Major Quane of St.
Peter, who is an avowed candidate for
the position and has considerable of a
personal following. Lieut. Col. Smith,
who virtually assumes command of the
regiment upon the transfer of Col.
Buschers, also is a candidate, but like
the position of vice president of the
United States this position does not seem
•*to be a popular stepping stone to the
"higher one. Major Pfaendgr states
that while he would accept the colonelcy
if elected to the position he would regard
his avowed candidacy as a breach of
etiquette, Major Mollison being his
senior in service and in every way
qualified for the higher rank. Major
Mollison, on the other hand, is said to
have declared that he would not be a
candidate, in case Major Pfaender seeks
the promotion. Major Quane evidently
is not strong on this Alphonso and
Gaston stuff and, although the junior
major in the regiment, is determined
to change the insignia on his shoulder
straps from the leaf to the eagle.
Colonel Buschers' reason for asking
for the transfer to the staff is his con
tinuous ill health and he had planned
to resign a number of months ago, but
was urged to remain in office until com
pletion of the New Ulm Armory. He
laid the matter before Governor Burn
quist when the latter visited the city
Tuesday of last week and the chief
executive agreed to conform with the
colonel's wishes.
Colonel Buschers became a member
of company "A" of New Ulm June 30,
1886, and has served continuously since
that time in every grade from private
to commanding officer of the regiment.
He received his first commission in
June, 1889, when he was elected second
lieutenant of the company. Five years
later he was promoted to first lieutenant
upon the resignation of Lieut. L. B.
Krook. In that capacity he served
during the Spanish-American War, but
like many others of his command he
became ill with typhoid fever while at
Chickamauga Park and was invalided
home to recuperate. His regiment came
back to the state before he had recovered.
When "A" company was re-organized
the year after the war he was elected
captain, five years later major and in
1912 colonel of his regiment.
The retirement of Col. Buschers will
mean a distinct loss to the military
organizations of the state, because he is
regarded as the best posted man in
state. During sham battles at Camp
Robinson, Wis., it is related that he
showed an almost uncanny anticipation
of the moves of the opposing forces,
to the chagrin of commanding officers
his senior both in years and service and
he handled his troops in a manner to
draw the praise from regular army
officers under whose supervision the
maneuvres were carried out. His cool
headed actions have been the admiration
of the enlisted men of the regiment who
keenly regret his retirement.
When we hear a person say that he
always calls a spade a spade, we feel like
saying, "O, Shovel!"
ROSTER OF HECKER POST
NO. 48, G. A. R.
Arhart,J.F. Manderfeld, J.
Doehne, Geo. Moll, H.
Dingier, J. Marschner, B.
Fortwengler, Hy. Nenno, N.
Frank, Wm. Pfefferle,R.
Grebe, F. Penning, P.
Hartmann, Vine. Schneider, Geo.
Huberti, A. Schneider, Jacob
Hegmann, A. Schlumberger, J.
Krueger, J. Schapekahm, J.
Klossner, J. Schwede, F.
Lauden, John J. Vogel, J. P.
Zoller, E.
REDUCES FREIGHT RATE
Court Rules Roads Cannot Apply
Interstate Rate From Duluth
To So. Minnesota
Under a ruling handed down by the
Supreme Court of the state, Minnesota
shippers will annually save all of a
quarter of a million dollars in freight
charges, according to railroads and busi
ness men who are informed on the sub
ject. The ruling is to the effect that
where a railroad can ship from one
point to another by intrastate commerce,
but actually does carry the goods by
interstate commerce, no higher rate shall
be charged for the interstate service than
would have been charge for the intra
state service.
The case in hand involves shipments
of coal from Duluth over the Northern
Pacific through Wisconsin via Superior
to Southern Minnesota points. The
Northern Pacific has been shipping coal
in that way, charging interstate rates
because the coal goes through Wisconsin,
whereas, if the coal were shipped over
the same company's line entirely in the
state of Minnesota, only an intrastate
rate could be charged.
Just where the saving comes in to
shippers in this section of the state seems
rather vague, as most of the coal shipped
from the Lake Superior terminal to New
Ulm does not come under the head of
interstate shipments. Announcement
is made that the rate to the Twin
Cities from Duluth would be approxi
mately $2.00 per ton, but the rate on
soft coal from Duluth to New Ulm al
ready is $1.85 per ton and on hard coal
$2.05 per ton. It may be, however,
that the distance tariff will be revised
and the shippers benefited thereby.
INSANE PRISONER ESCAPES
FROM ASYLUM.
Local police officers were notified by
the St. Peter hospital authorities to be
on the look-out for an insane prisoner
of the institution who made his get
away some time Sunday night. The
prisoner is Patrick J. Gibbons, who in
1911 killed his wife and Rev. Walsh at
South St. Paul.
It is believed by the authorities that
Gibbons had outside help aiding him in
the escape and the supposition is that
he made this way through a tunnel into
the main sewer and from the mouth of
the sewer was lifted to the Northwestern
bridge, which crosses the Minnesota
river near the institution.
Gibbons is described as a short, thick
set man, weighing about 200 pounds.
He wears a mustache and has heavy
overhanging eyebrows. He wore a dark
suit of clothes and tan shoes.
OVERALL SHIPMENT BURNS UP
AT ST. PETER.
Eighty dozen pairs of overalls manu
factured by the New Ulm overall factory
went up in smoke Monday of last week
in St. Peter in a fire which destroyed a
box car and contents while standing on
a sidetrack near the Northwestern depot
in St. Peter.
The goods were a shipment consigned
to the overall factory of Johnson & Co.
at St. Peter, of which the local concern
is a branch. The car also contained a
shipment of brooms consigned to the
hospital for the insane and several pieces
of merchandise of lesser value.
According to Mr. Lindemann, local
manager of the overall factory, the goods
shipped by him had a value of approxi
mately $1,500, all being first grade stuff.
The factory does not sustain any loss,
however, as the railroad company is re
sponsible for the goods until delivered
to the consignee. The loss to the rail
road company, including the box car,
which also was destroyed, will amount
to several thousand dollars.
Although the origin of the fire is un
known it is believed to have been started
by tramps who sought shelter from the
rain and storm which prevailed at the
time of the fire. The fact that one of ther
seals of the car was broken confirms the
suspicion.
VOLUME XXXVII. NEW ULM, BROWN COUNTY, MINNESOTA, WEDNESDAY, MAY 24, 1916.
THREATS MAY KEEP
WHOLESALERSAWAY
ATTEMPTS TO LOCATE IN CITY
MEET WITH DETERMINED
OPPOSITION.
ORGANIZED EFFORT WILL BE
gMADE TO CURB INFLUENCE
OF OUTSIDERS.
That sinister influences are at work
in the Southern part of the state with
the avowed object of scaring away from
New Ulm, business men who are looking
for a place to start up wholesale houses
is the firm belief of a number of business
men of the city, who are of the opinion
that efforts are being made to discourage
the people who had planned to start a
wholesale grocery house in New Ulm
and have already gone so far as to take
an option on a lease of one of the store
buildings.
A representative of one of the whole
sale houses in a town not a hundred
miles from New Ulm was in the city a
few weeks ago and open boasted that
the wholesale house scheme would never
go through in New Ulm as long as his
house was in the business. "Why,
we'll start another house right here in
jNew Ulm and put them out of business,"
was the way he put it bluntly. Of
course this is only a bluff, but it is said
to have worked in a number of other
instances and every effort will no doubt
be made to make it appear as the
genuine article. In this game of bluff
every available string is pulled by the
opposition. Railroad companies are
urged not to grant leases for the erection
of warehouses and financiers of the
Twin Cities are importuned to dis
courage probable investors from coming
to New Ulm.
The opposition of late has been get
ting so strong that the local business
men are seriously considering the with
drawal of their support from such
houses which seem to be in the ring
against establishing wholesale houses
in this city. Wholesalers, it is said,
have formed trade agreements whereby
one does not enter the territory of the
other without permission. The trade
agreement is, of course, a secret and
verbal one, but that it exists is the firm
opinion of local merchants.
While the New Ulm Commercial Club
has not taken any official action, it is
believed that the matter will be brought
to the attention of the members at the
next meeting and a "back fire" started
that will give notice to the outside op
position to keep their hands off New
Ulm and mind their own business.
READY TO PACK CITY STREETS
FOR OILING
The street roller, recently purchased
by the city, has arrived and an expert
is expected to arrive in the city today
to put the machine into commission.
The roller will be put to work packing
down State street as a starter, but its
activities will be extended to the, other
unpaved streets and the northern and
southern extremities of Minnesota
street. The oiler arrived some time
ago and will be put to work as soon as
the streets are properly packed. State
street will be the experimental piece
of road.
PREPARING CITY'S BEAUTY SPOT
FOR VISITORS
All of the buildings in German Park
have been repainted and repaired dur
ing the past week and put into condi
tion for the reception of the summer
visitors. The Sunday night band con
certs will no doubt begin as soon as the
weather warms up sufficiently to make
those who attend comfortable. Con
certs in former years always were greatly
enjoyed and appreciated by the public.
Contractor Gronau is making good
progress with the new building at the
City cemetery recently contracted for
by the city council. When completed
it will be quite an ornament to the city
of the dead. According to the contract
the building must be completed by
August 1.
Clerk of Court Manderfeld issued the
following marriage licenses during the
week: Herman Marks and Anna Fierer,
Springfield Tommy Hagen and Emma
Hagen, Albin Leo A. Sprenger and
Magdalen M. Marso, New Ulm Geo.
J. Puchner and Frances Schmidt, Spring
field Herman C. Vogl and Henrietta
Altenburg, New Ulm Joseph Zupfer and
Agnes Steiner, New Ulm.
ST. PAUL BOOSTERS
PASS DP NEW ULM
BUSINESS MEN KEENLY FEEL
SLIGHT OFFERED BY ST.
PAUL MEN.
TRADE EXCURSION WILL VISIT
EVERY OTHER CITY ON
THEIR ROUTE.
Local business men feel that they are
rather slighted by the action of the St.
Paul Association of Commerce in passing
up New Ulm on their annual excursion
to the trade territory tributary to St.
Paul. Announcement has been made
that the train will make stops on nearly
every station on the M. & St. L. line,
from St. Paul to the Iowa line, but New
Ulm is not included in the program.
When this discrepancy was at first
noticed inquiry was made at the local
office of the railroad company, but the
agent, Mr. Leary, stated that he had no
information on the subject whatever.
He immediately took up the matter
however, with the head offices of the
company and received the following
reply:
"St. Paul Association of Commerce
advise that they are not making stops
any place which they have visited within
the last two years on account of lack of
time. Consequently they will be un
able to stop at New Ulm with the train
which will pass through there June 7th."
At first glance the above telegram sets
forth sufficient reasons for not making
the stop at New Ulm, were it not for the
fact that New Ulm is the only station
on this branch of the St. Louis that the
association visited during the past two
years. The association was in New
Ulm about two years ago and the mem
bers were the guests of the city over
night. They were entertained in every
way possible by the local business men
and the slight this year is therefore felt
most keenly. The matter seems to be
definitely settled by the above telegram
so far as the business men are concerned
for the present, but the slight will no
doubt be remembered in the future.
Stops are being made at nearly every
station along the M. & St. L. between
St. Paul and the Iowa line, even La
fayette and Hanska being included in
the scheduled visits.
Trade excursions or "booster trips"
as they are popularly spoken of, have
become a regular summer feature of the
St. Paul organization and for several
years two trips of a week each have been
made by the members. The purpose
of these excursions is to give wholesalers
and manufacturers an opportunity to
call upon their friends and customers,
at their own places of business and get
a first hand acquaintance with their
territory and trade conditions. In
reality they are not trade excursions be
cause no effort is made to sell goods or
establish trade relations. They could
be more properly styled sociability
trips, as their object is better acquaint
ance and good fellowship.
The trip to Southern Minnesota this
year will be made over the M. & St. L.
the week beginning June 5. The Minne
sota State Band, one of the best musical
organization of the Northwest, ac
companies the train which consists of
two baggage cars, two dining cars, one
tourist sleeper for employes, six standard
sleepers and one observation car. The
party live on the train during the entire
week.
Another feature which has been added
this year is the taking of moving pictures
along the route. Wherever a stop is
made the movie man will catch the
crowds at the depot and take scenes of
the business district of the towns visited.
These films later will be shown in the
theatres of the various towns as well as
in the Twin Cities.
The train will reach New Ulm about
8 o'clock in the morning but for the
reasons above stated will not make a
scheduled stop.
NEGLIGENCE CAUSES DEATH OF
LITTLE CH.LD.
Deputy County Coroner Weiser and
Sheriff Julius were called to Springfield
last Saturday upon the request of the
authorities of that village to investigate
the death of a new-born child, whose
demise, it was suspected, had been
accelerated. An examination of the re
mains by the coroner exonerated the
parties suspected, however, and the
sensational stories in circulation last
week have failed to materialize as true.
Death of the child was caused by negli
gence due to ignorance of the mother,
rather than criminal intent, according to
Dr. Weiser.
ft****************
MEMORIAL DAY SERVICES
AT CITY CEMETERY.
Music Second Regiment Band
G. A. R. Services
English Address,
Hon. S. D. Works
Song, Ladies of Hecker Circle
Recitation, Herman Polchow
Song, Ladies of Hecker Circle
German Address,
Prof. Hugo Mosel
Roster of the Dead
Salute
Taps
ANNULS HASTY MARRIAGE
Judge Olsen Clears Way For Pro
bating of Estate Left By
Nicollet Farmer
Several Nicollet people were in the
city last week attending a hearing in
district court chambers concerning the
proposed annulment of the marriage
entered into by John Micke, a farmer
near Nicollet, who committed suicide
a few days after the ceremony, because
his spouse had left him stranded in St.
Paul a few hours after they were married.
The marriage took place in St. Paul
on March 18, 1914, and was the result
of an advertisement in a St. Paul paper
by the woman proposing correspondence
with a view to matrimony. The woman
came to Nicollet, drove out to the Micke
farm, but stayed only a few hours, but
exacted the promise of Micke to meet
her in St. Paul a few days later. Micke
followed instructions, went to St. Paul,
got a marriage license and the ceremony
was performed by Rev. Carl Koch. The
bride then induced her husband to give
her his pocket book containing about
$150, and on the pretense of visiting her
sister, left him for a few minutes and
failed to come back. He then returned
to Granby and, becoming despondent,
committed suicide by shooting himself
in the head. He owned a farm valued
at $18,000 and personal property valued
at $3,000. As the probate court could
not adjust the estate without taking
cognizance of the marriage, an action
was brought by the administrator, Ed.
C. Johannes, to annul the marriage, and
the matter was heard by Judge Olsen in
court chambers at New Ulm last Thurs
day. There was no appearance on the
part of the defendant.
The order of the judge declares the
marriage null and void, and of no force
and effect whatever, and that the defend
ant, Hedwig Micke, has no right, title,
estate or interest in or to the real estate
and personal property of John Micke, and
that she is bkrred from claiming any
right title or interest in the property.
The entire estate will now go to the
seven children
FIVE DISTRICTS WILL VOTE ON
CONSOLIDATION
Consolidation of five school districts,
three in Brown county and two in Cotton
wood county is planned by the residents
of the southwest part of the county and
a special election is called for June 3,
to be held in the village of Comfrey.
Plans for the consolidation are ap
proved by the state superintendent of
education and the election will be con
ducted under the supervision of the
school suprintendents of Brown and
Cottonwood counties. The village of
Comfrey is practically in the center of
the districts to be consolidated and the
plans are to erect a new modern high
school building in the village when the
consolidation is perfected. For the
present, however, the Comfrey school
building will be used. Only voters of
the four rural districts will be permitted
to vote at the election, as the law pro
vides that the residents of the district
into which the others wish to be merged
have no voice in the matter. The dis
stricts to be consolidated are No. 80
(Comfrey), Nos. 49 and 72 in Brown
county and Nos. 34 and 63 in Cotton
wood county.
ATHLETIC MEET OF TURNERS
JUNE17.
Members of the three societies of the
Minnesota Turnbezirk will hold their
annual athletic meet in Minneapolis
Sunday, June 17, the arrangements for
securing the park where the exercises
are to be held being left to the St.
Anthony Turnverein of Minneapolis.
It is expected that a large number of
the New Ulm athletes will participate
in the meet and also that the passive
members of the local society will ac
company them. An excursion train
over the M. & St. L. will be arranged
for and it is hoped to secure a particular
ly low rate for the round trip.
NUMBER 21
ANNUAL MEMORIAL
OF WAR YETERANS
MILITARY AND CIVIC PARADE
AND MUSICAL PROGRAM AT
CEMETERY.
WORKS AND MOSEL TO DELIVER
APPROPRIATE ADDRESSES TO
VETERANS.
Insurance Commissioner S. D. Works,
candidate for the Democratic nomina
tion for Governor, has been secured by
the G. A. R. committee having in charge
the arrangements for the observance of
Memorial day. The speaking and pro
gram will take place at the City cemetery,
except in case of rain when the services
will take place in the Armory. As
German speaker Prof. Hugo Mosel,
one of the instructors of D. M. L. College
has been secured by the committee.
Commissioner Polchow offered his serv
ices at a recent meeting of the Post and
he will give a reading, entitled "The Per
fect Tribute," in which is included Lin
coln's famous Gettysburg speech.
Several selections by the Second Regi
ment band will be rendered, as well as
appropriate songs by soloists and choirs.
The children of the public and the
parochial schools have been invited to
participate in the parade which will form
on Center and State streets at 10 o'clock
a. m., the route of march being the same
as in former years, south on State to
Second South street, east to Minnesota,
thence north to either Third or Fourth
North street, then swinging into Broad
way and further on into State street to
the cemetery.
Although no orders have been issued
as yet, the local military companies are
preparing to muster their full strength
on that day, as it is about the only
chance they get during the year to make
a showing. Burgs' Battery turned out
for special drill last Sunday afternoon,
preparatory to the Memorial day parade,
the four pieces of artillery making xjuite
an addition to the military part of the
parade. The Second Regiment band
will, of course, head the procession.
While most of the members of Hecker
Post are still active, members of the
organization throughout the country
are urging that the arrangements for
the observance of Memorial day be
taken off their shoulders and delegated
to some public or semi-public body.
Officers of the Department of Minnesota
have made a move with this object in
view, by asking the Governor to make
an appeal to the people when issuing his
annual proclamation. Their letter a
the Governor follows:
"Owing to the rapid decreases in our
membership and the inability of many by
reason of age and disabilities incident
thereto we find it very difficult to proper-"
ly and adequately carry out our annual
custom of visiting the schools of the
state in advance of Memorial day.
"We believe that the time has arrived
when some assistance must be secured
if this work is to be kept up and main
tained and we also believe that in view
of the great events transpiring both in
Europe and this country and the in
tense interest manifested by our citizens
that the time is most opportune in which
to seek the aid and participation of some
of our patriotic citizens in a work so
fraught with the security, permanence
and integrity of our common country.
"By reason of this situation we request
that at the time of the issuance of the
usual Memorial day proclamation, you
include therein a statement of these
conditions with a recommendation that
the state and muncipal authorities and
the people generally give active assist
ance in this work to the end that every
school in the state may be visited on
Friday before Memorial day by one or
more citizens and the practice so com
menced may become established for all
time in this great commonwealth."
Governor Burnquist has written the
Department that he would accede to
their request.
Henry C. Warkne sold his fine resi
dence property on the corner of State
and First South streets a few days ago to
Julius Strohschein of Wood Lake, Minn.
The price is said to have been $10,500.
The new owner expects to move into the
residence about the first of July and Mr.
Warnke and family will occupy apart
ments temporarily elsewhere, as they
expect to make a trip to the West this
fall and will not return to New Ulm until
spring. The Warnke residence is re
garded as one of the most valuable
pieces of residence property in the~ city
and Mr. Warnke has spent a considerable
amount of money to make it attractive.
Pi
2:
i'l
