HE BARRE DAILY TIMES
rm
VOL. XX NO. 60.
BAItRE, VERMONT, WEDNESDAY, MAY 24, 1916.
rillCE, ONE CENT.
GOADED TO FURY
GERMANS TOOK
PART OF TOWN
Launched Powerful Attack
on Cumiercs, East of Dead
Man's Hill, Last Night,
and After Fierce Hand-to-Hand
Struggle Ejected
French Defenders from a
Portion of the Trenches
ROVERTE BURNING,
FIRED BY SHELL
IN MAGAZINE
VON BUELOW'
ON WAY HERE
COLLEGE STUDENTS SEE GRANITE.
Party from University of Vermont Spent
Day in Barre.
Members of the' faculty and student
body of the University of Vermont, Uur
lington, visited Barre yesterday by au
tomobile, being on an inspections! and
educational tour. On thir way to Barro
RECOMMEND
L D. BRANDEISI
CROWD AT G. S. MINSTRELS.
Students Netted More Than Enough to
Send Track Team to Burlington.
Goddard seminary students and faeuW
ty, with a largo number of downtown
people to help pack the Bchool chapel,
reveled in amateur minstrelsy lent even
ON MORMONS
AND MAMMON
Former German Chancellor ffigJS PSl4 ST,';; Senate JudMary Committee
Is So Reported in Lon
don To-day
Explosion is Said to Have Destroyed
Several Heavy Guns Besides Setting
Fire to the Place.
Taris, May 24. An Italian shell has
blown up the largest munitions depot at
Roverte and the town is in flames, ac
cording to a news dispatch from Rome.
The explosion destroyed several heavy
guns.
SPECIAL MISSION
FROM EMPEROR
A Short Time Ago William
and His Former Chancellor
Held a Long Conference
DOUAUMONT ATTACKS
VIRTUALLY FAILED
French Official Statement
Admits Loss of a Part of
Cumieres and Part of a
Trench West of Fort Dou
aumont, but Declares That
the Germans Spent Lives
Recklessly
GERMAN FOOD DICTATOR.
the visitor had dinner at Hotel Barre
and immediately afterwards "vV. 0. Rey
nolds, president, with others representing
the Board of Trade, escorted the guests
to Barclay Bros.' plant, where they saw
land inspected the machinery, operation
and business of a granite manufacturing
plant. Then they proceeded to the Bout
well, Milne & Varnum quarries where an
opportunity was given to see and exam
ine a Barre granite quarry under work
ing conditions, and, incidentally, the
quarry owner invited all to partake of
a substantial buffet lunch.
Afterwards the party went to inspect
the E. L. Smith & Co. and the Wetmore
&, Morse quarries and began their home
ward journey, stopping in Barre for a
short time to view the Burns monument.
The visitors expressed pleasure and sat;
isfactton over their visit and were sur
prised at the development of the Barre
Voted 10 to 8 on the
Nomination
to Spend a Talkative
Evening
a special mission.
It is also understood that Von Buelow
will become ambassador to the United
States.
CARRIED HUGE CAKE.
Paris, May 24. The battle around Ver
dun continues to rage with violence un
exampled even in this region. The Ger
mans are striving with every resource to
capture hill 304 and Dead Man's-hill on
the left bank of the Meuse and to win
back the famous Fort Douaumont on the
right bank. Driven to desperation by
seeing so much of its work undone, the
German command hurled attack after at
tack against the fort, at the same time
keeping up the onslaught on the lett
bank, preventing the French from trans
ferring forces to the scene of the main
attack. All day yesterday the tide of
war ebbed and flowed and inches of
ground were won and lost at appalling
cost in men; but when night fell the po
sitions on both sides were practically unchanged.
Last night a powerful offensive was
undertaken by the Germans east of Dead
Man's hill on the Verdun front and la
general it was successful. The war office
says that after a fierce hand-to-hand
struggle, the attacking forces made their
way into a portion of the village of Cu
mieres. The German attacks on Douau
mont virtually failed, they taking only a
small part of a trench west of the fort
with reckless expenditure of lives. ,
The Attack on Dead Man's Hill.
The official communication issued by
the war office last night reads:
"In the region of Verdun the German
counter attacks took on a character of
extreme violence along the whole of our
front without it being yet possible to
specify the considerable effectives en
gaged.
"On the left bank of the Meuse after a
bombardment with large shells all morn
ing the Germans launched on several oc
casions their assaulting masses against
our positions to the east and west of Le
Mort Homme. The first attack mowed
down by our artillery and machine gun
fire was repulsed with sanguinary losses
without the enemy having been able to
reach our lines.
"A second attack, likewise desperate,
about 7 o'clock in the evening succeeded
in gaining a footing in one of our trenches
to the west. An immediate counter at
tack drove out the enemy.
"On the right bank of the region of
Haudromont-Douaumont was all day the
theatre of a murderous struggle. The
Germans multiplied their assaults which
were preceded each time by very power
ful artillery preparations.
"Despite all three efforts the positions
conquered by us yesterday were main
tained in their entirety notably in Fort
Douaumont. In this region more than
300 prisoners remained in our hands." .
To Guard Against Possibility of a Fam
ine. "
Berlin, via London, May. 24. "The ad
equate nourishment of our population is
fully assured and will not be rendered
doubtful by any blockade regulations of
enemy states, no matter how unscrupu
lous they may be and no matter how
long the war may last," says the semi-
olticial North German Gazette in an an
nouncement of the creation of food dic
tatorship with. sweeping powers.
"However, the short harvest of 1915,
together with reduced imports have re
sulted in a food scarcity in some direc
tions, which makes itself acutely felt dent's cousin, Helen Woodrow Bones
and efforts to better conditions have lett this morning lor jsew lorn to at
been hindered by the fact that each fed- tend the wedding, this afternoon, of Dr.
era! state-'has been able to make inde- Cary T. Grayson, the president's naval
pendent regulations. This will now fie aide and physician, and Alice Gertrude
corrected by a centralization of power." Gordon of Washington and New York.
London, May 24. The Exchange Tele
graph company learns from diplomatic granite industry
circles that Prince Von Buelow. the for- J Among me visitor were uean J. w,
,, . ,. . 1 Votev and Profs. W. Hi Frecdman, Dela
mer German chancellor, is proceeding to - . . - . . . .n(1 t.-
Washirigton, charged by the emperor with Utructor G. E. Hardy and a representa- associate justice of the United S
Tabloid vaudeville, tuneful song skits
and clever local quips made up a program I
that kept the audience on toes from the I
opening chorus, a medley of 12 scoros, to-
the. lowering of the curtain on the farce I
that formed the second part of the show.
LONG FIGHT NOW GOES rTTL SMt m he chT'w" rTc( NO PROHIBITION
- - i mm mere were tnose wno naa to iook on
TO SENATE FLOOR from the ai8le if tnev would witneM th
cumeuy aoings at ail.
In the forecircle were Coach Charles
Hoernle of the baseball team, Hubbard
T nilHrn William r..; Willi-m r,T-
In the Committee the Vote tosh, Arthur Hoernle and Myron Rogers
as tne biacK-raced endmen and .Donald
Arnold as the conversationalist. After
the opening chorus each contributed a
song and each was encored. The music
was interlarded by sharp-barbed hits
that fell where they would. An orches
tra composed of Mis Rachel Ifollisfpr.
n r nr. oi ti.. c- I . A , . . . . .
i.Bamiigivu, n. w., ..injr im tu-1 yuoert uosiant ana i nomas aiappiebecK
ate judiciary committee to-day Voted 10 accompanied the endnien singers, whoe
to s to rennrf f.vnnhir nn fh nnmina. forces were augmented in the solo sing- which followed th
tkn of Louis D. Brandeis of Boston to be JtSlZ Petitin se 60 W
Was Strictly Along
Party Lines
ON THE FORMER
Street Railroad So Short of
Latter They Cannot Pay
for Street Paving Share
Councillors split on '
tion again last night
j- ormon qucJ-
' neeial mnfftinn'
I o
..r manic session.
tive group of seniors in the civil and elec
trical engineering departments.
George Faulkner and Rov Wark of th5
States I inner circle. Others who assisted Messrs.
supreme court. The vote was strictly ,McNabb, Faulkner, Burgess and Wark in
Wilsons Go to New York to Attend
Grayson-Gordon Wedding.
Washington. May 24 Presidentand Mrs.
Wilson and Mr. MeAdoo and the presi-
along party lines.
The committee action remained in
doubt up to the time the vote was taken.
Fubue hearine were held for several
MUST BE ACCEPTED weeks by a sub-committee, which sub-!
mittea a report recommending eonnrma-
tion. This was done by a strict party
vote, the Democrats favoring and the Re
publicans opposing Brandeis. Since then
action by the full committee has been da-
la yed chiefly by uncertainty on the part
of some of thes Democratic members.
Recently President Wfison wrote a letter
to Senator Culberson, chairman of the
committee, urging favorable action.
CHURCH'S TENETS
Before Presbyterian Candidates for Mm
istry Can Be Ordained Decision
Reached By General Presby-
terian Assembly.
the chorus work were: Allen Calef, Har
ris Roule, Harold Wallace, John Chap
man, George Shepard, Percy Smith and
George Swinger.
pie, protesting 'P ction of the council
last week in vi" -ing the elders of tha
Church of Jesu Christ and Latter-Day
Saints permission to speak in the square, "
was read by the clerk, a long-winded dis-
Probably never before have such, sweep
ing powers been concentrated as are now
granted Herr von Battocki, the new food
director. anous .counsellors will be
assigned to him, representing agriculture,
industry, trade, the military and consum
ers, and representatives of the federal
states and of associations connected with
the war also will aid him. Final decision
on all questions, however, rest solely
in Herr von Battockis hands. The reg
illations of the federal council will not
be affected by the appointment of the
dictator, but in case of pressing necessi
ty, the dictator even is empowered to is
sue contrary regulations, but these must
be laid immediately before the federal
council for approval.
The dictator will be able to appropri
ate all foods and fodder and may even
establish perpetrations if necessary. The
only express limitation of the dictator's
power is contained in the provision ttiat
the new department s measure will take
into consideration orders of the military
commanders. The date on which the new
order of things will become effective is
to be announced shortly.
The surrender by the federal states
of their prerogatives indicates a resliza
The Wilson's carried an immense wedding
rake which was made at the hite
House.
Atlantic City, N. J., May 24. The gen
eral Presbyterian assembly to-day adopt
ed without debate the committee report
on bills and overtures warning the New
ork and other presbyteries that the
church s tenets must be accepted by mm
FAVORS KERN RESOLUTION
Interest in the second part centered CU88ion on thel'. tolerance and al-
around the unusually clever "big time" leged bigotry was precipitated and befor
stunts uncovered by Thomas Mapplebeck, adjournment the line of cleavage estab
who combined the artifices of the ma- li.h.j ...
gicran with the mystery work of a Hou- , .
dim. The audience was truly mystified " J u,on..,.8 i.o
by the performance of the student-Hou-1 by voting with the side that favored no
dini. Legcrdermain and sleight of hand discrimination against the elders from
novelties were introduced by Mapplejjeck Uth. When the request was put in las
when he wasn t releasing himself from , M, ,
an improvised cage, handcuffs or chains. weeK "m onuruen, Keynoias ana
Enough money and more was realized no8S1 Bna lne mayor voted to permit tna
to send the track team to Burlington. Mormons to speak in Depot square on
The Goddard athletes will leave the city one night in each week, with the reserva
Friday morning in charge of Coach Kin- tion that Saturday night be excepted.
istry candidates before they should be Demanding Investigation of American ney and will arrive in Burlington in time j Aldermen Glysson, Healy and Bruce op
ordained. It is believed that this action
ends further discussion in the present as
sembly regarding the alleged, heresy
ouestion which involved th Xew York
IN IRISH REVOLT presbytery and the t'nion Theological
seminary.
McNEIL GUILTY
Safety in Ireland.
Washington, D. C, May 24. The Sen
ate committee on foreign relations recom
mended a favorable report on Senator
Kern s resolution directing the secretary
to participate in the preliminaries to the posed the action strenuously.
lnierscnoiastic meet Doojcea ior Saturday. I a motion that would have precipitated,
in alt probability, a bitter religious de
bate was sidetracked bv a counter mc-
NO CONTINUATION SCHOOL. tion, made bv Alderman Reynolds and
seconded by Alderman Rossi, in which,
President of Sinn Fein Volunteers Will
Have His Sentence Promulgated
Within a Day or Two.
NEW BISHOPS ASSIGNED.
To Districts in the Methodist Church
Many Changes.
Saratoga Springs, X. V., May 24. Th
been found guilty by court martial of twenty-five bishops of the Methodist requting the secretary of stste to in
e I KniAconal rJinrch erA aftnicrneH to Ineir I tnrm tha Sonata flhnnt th atliftiHa tf
i;;i,. i- !.. i,.i, .u ..j 1,1. r : . . - -
Luliipiu 1 lJ M HH, 111.11 ..ltt. RUM lt
sentence will be promulgated within a
of state o inquire regarding American Need for It Not Felt Sufficient New the petitioners were asked to present to
safety in Ireland, where martial law was Teachers Being Engaged. the council proof of the charges made
1""-"" , . aaramst the Mormons. The first motion
.aeni .n me city school who tan to woud jde for MU fce . jn
Dublin, May 24. John McNeil, presi
dent of the Sinn Fein Volunteers, has
Washington, D. C, May 24. A resolu
tion by Senator Hitchcock of Nebraska,
day or two.
MRS. H0RT0N IN COURT.
new episcopal residences at a special the British government concerning the
meeting of the episcopal committee of shipment of supplies to Poland was ree
the general conference last nigbt. Al- om mended for passage to-day by the for
though the assignments will not be an- eign relations committee,
nounccd to the conference until later In
the
week it was learned that a larcre
w t k. u.. i V I UTfiVP "WflT nTTTT TV
" r r-' j he effective at the end of the conference.
tant Witness in Waits Case. ,fter being ratified by,th debates. .
' Ynrk Afv i r TMrrf I he seven bunops wno were elected
Horton, who a expected to be an in- 'aBt week received these assignments i
portant witness to-day at the Waite naur-
Thomas Nicholson, who has been sec
tion that existing conditions demand such der trial, arrived in court accompanied reUrv of Ue church board or education,
surrender. Adequate breadstuffs are on by her husband and her sister. Chicago. III.; Adna W. Leonard of
hand apd it is even likely that the bread Special Officer Cunniff told of receiving Seattle, Wash., to San Francisco; Matt S.
and flour ration for physical workers I from Eugene Kane, who embalmed Peck's Hughes ot i asadena, ll., to l ortiann;
soon will be increased. Enough potatoes body, a sample of the fluid which Kane Franklin Hamilton of Washington, I). C,
the country said was used and he identified medical to nusburg. I'a.: Uharies a. Mitchell or
also are available to carry the country
through until the early crop is harvest
ed, although it is possible that the a)
lowance must be somewhat reduced. It
cannot be denied, however, that Germany
is likely to approach a near condition of
a vegetarian Eden in coming months.
There are sharp differences of opinion
touching the food question between Prus
books found in Waite's apartments con
taining marked passages about poisoning.
The sender of (the mysterious K.
Adams" telegram which figured in the
case was identified as Elirabeth B. Hard-
wick of Soinerville, X. J., to-day, This
telegram was sent from New ork to
Chicago, to St. Paul, Minn.; William F.
Oldham of New York, to Buenos Ayres, of not guilty in' the case of State vs
South America, and Herbert welch of
Ohio, to Seoul, Korea.
To Inquire British Government's Atttude. make their grades this year are not to council chamber to-morrow night, with
the Mormons upholding their faith.
against representatives of the petition
ers. It was on the motion to have the
petitioners produce their evidence at thu
regular meeting next week or at soma
other future meeting that the foregoing
vote was registered.
The petition, with the signatures of
f hose who went on record ss opposing re
ligious tolerance, is as follows:
Whereas, it appears that a petition
has been presented to your honorable
board by certain representatives of that
organization called Mormons, asking fop
the use of certain public streets, squares
and parks for the purpose of holding
meetings, having for their object th
gaining of adherents to the Mormon
cause and increasing the membership of
said organization;
"And, whereas we, the undersignel,
citizens of the city of Barre, consider
that the teachings and practices of th
Mormon body are contrary to good mor
als snd opposed to the spirit of Amer
ican freedom and democracy, and tending
have the benefit of the summer continu
ation school established three years ago,
as the result of a decision reached by the
school commission. It is explained that
the need for a summer school in the
grades is not sapparent at the present
time as in former years. Last summer
the registration approximated 80 but
it is said that children who have been
delinquent in their studies throughout
the grades are not so numerous this
Ur AtvoUii VyllAIVVi 11 part of the commissioners to retrench,
inasmuch as the state appropriation has
been reduced, There will be private
schools for summer students this year,
as in the past.
Vacancies in the teaching staff of the
high school and graded schools were con
sidered at the monthly meeting of the
school board last evening. The number
of resignations this year is considerably
smaller than in recent years and the
Jury Brought in Verdict That He Did
Not Set Fire to the Barn of Charles
H. Smith in East Moretown
Last FalL
In Washington county court at Mont
pelier to-day the jury returned a verdict
changes to be msde are comparatively
Charles Wyone, who was chsrged with few. Two of three pending vacancies in
arson in Mtf nor fire to the harn ( me n wnoui iiv oren uiito ior iin- , . i;aa,:. ,:.rk .
Charles H. Smith in East Moretown last "' nfl wira teacner is practically trarv to thp BPirit of American institti-
ta n it ia i n f h rrr-a Ad o ia s tit I .
TO CLIMB MANSFIELD.
CUMIERES WAS
TAKEN BY STORM
Berlin War Office Reports That Thus Far
.They Have Captured Over 300 Pris
oners, Including Eight
Officers.
Berlin. May 24. Thurildian troop"
have captured Cumieres village east of
IVad Man s hill, the war office announced
to da v. The Tillage was taken by storm
So far over 300 prisoners, including eight
ctliiers, have been tai.ro by the Germans,
sia and the south German states. These, I Grand Rapids, urging Perny Peck to have
i - . r ; t i : I . i.,i f v J
however, in view of the new imperial die
tatorship can have only academic inter
est.
HOPE TO FORESTALL
ALLIES' OFFENSIVE
Appalachian Club of Boston is Coming to
Vermont Saturday.
Turlington, May 24. The Appalachian
Mountain club of Boston were so im
pressed with the beauties of Mt. Mans
field in their excursion of September
r , . j 3 i Mansfield on the club's regular Memorial
'a visit to Xew ork and said her . Xv u rJ. .a f
an autopsy on his father's body,
Mrs. Clara Louise Peck v aite faced her
husband in court for the first time to
day when she took the stand as a wit
ness against him. The prisoner looked
at his wife but she appeared not to see
him
father'
fall. The case has been on trial several assured, v aeancies in tne grades are aiw
days, the arguments being made this being filled satisfactorily,
forenoon, followed by the judge's charge
to the jury. The cae was given to the omwrv FfP RTTIMAt
iurv shortly after 12 o'clock, and the T0 QUINCY FOR BURIAL,
v r A t rnnrr tA f 9 AVlrLr
The state claimed that the alleged act August Johnson, Who Died in Barre,
was the result of a quarrel between the urn irora mac city.
J--. J . 1. t' - 1 S 1
rrsponaent .,,u me nmiin. ana tqas re- August Johnson passed away at his
venge was the motive which prompted!, , ...... '
W von. to commit thn felonious let Wit- hm 23 Church street, this morning at
newes were placed on the stand to show 1:15 o'clock, death following an illneis
Austrians and Germans Began Furious
Attacks in Effort to Wear Out
France and Italy.
Rome, May 24. The Austrian offensive
on the Trentino front and the German'
furious Verdun attacks are explained as
a concerted Teutonic effort to prevent
the expected Simultaneous attacks by
the allies along all fronts. Willing to
prevent such a move even at the cost of
enormous sacrifices, the Au&tro-Gernians
aim at wearing out France and Italy,
counting on the temporary Russian halt
continuing until the other countries are
tired out. It is asserted that the Ans-tro-German
plans must fail as the allies
will be able to take derisive simultaneous
action.
jamer s visit to ir ana s..a nr . . . Thrmlh tw ... of the mwees were
husband suggested that ur. Moore be - .,... th. hosnitalitv of that Wyone had boasted that he would that dated from September, 1914. At
called to see her father She said that L. h ,ake Mllnsfieid Trout cUlb has been B't even and that when the buildings that Johnmn wag strickcn with
and had pUnned a trip to Hot Springs a pre.M of the club. Th.
with her. , .r- ..j . mU
null IKJl,C is in 1 ,1 1 , " , , w-mi ij
on account of the Appalachians. The
STATION SATISFACTORY. party, numbering 45, will arrive Satur
day, May 27. and leave Wedneaday, May
Public Service Commission Informs the 1 3 1 , under the direction of William T.
May, chairman of the excursion oommit
tf of the AnnaJ-rhian club.
Vermont Trinn nr. Mt. Mansfield and into Smuff-
public service commission has notified thj Rlerg, yoUh an1 walks near the
Central Vermont Railway Co. that the T,ut cIub wiIl mad(, Tne Mansfield
new station ordered by the commission to ,potjon of thf c.rern Mountain club have
lie built here is satisfactory. ;, tl, ,..;.imr of th forests d.
were burning tne responnent naa cauea t hoi(, fever d pneumonia. Coniplica-
iirnuon u. .r. iru, w.n, w,.uia c tiong ,iPVcVped and latterly his condition
resided, that revenge is sweet. hai, en very critical. He is survived
l ne respondent was on tne stana yes- bv hig wife w) wti ylift. ,jejmle Ellison,
terday afternoon and this forenoon and h he married" in Ouincv.
Central Vermont.
Brattleboro, May 24. The
contradicted the evidence of Barteaux in
regard to statements made. Wyone as
serted that he went to Montpelier the
day preceding the fire, that he purchased
a pint of whiskey on Barre street and
drank half of the liquor on his return
journey. The whiskey made him ill. He
aid when he noticed the fire that he
M-s., in 1000. and by four children,
Miss Gunhild Nelson, Miss Mildred Nel
son, Mlbert nelson ana iwgny icisoii.
There are also left two sisters, Miss A.
Sandblad of New York City and Mrs.
Anna Lekstrom, who lives in Sweden,
tions, as well as a political and financial
monopoly;
"Therefore, we protest against thd
granting for the purposes aforesaid the
use of anv public street, square or park.
Dated at Barre this 20th day of May,
191fl.
'B. G. Lipskv. George Mills. F. E.
Adams, W. H. Olliver. F. Ti. Hathaway,
Thomas H. Cave, sr., Inez L. Thurston,
P. J. Morse, Mrs. C. H. Kenerson, Mrs.
Peter Larkin. E. G. Wells, John J. Sowles,
Earl Batchelder, C. S. Andrews, Mrs. B.
W. Hooker. Miss Frieda C. Hooker, Ches
ter B. Smith, C. H. Kenerson, E. M. Lyon,
Nellie L. Morse. Nettie Cushman. G. H.
Cushman. Etta L. Burley. B. W. Robert,
Nicholas Veale, H. F. Johnson, Florence
Veale, B. S. Ladeau, William J. MacXeil,
James M. Roberts. Glenn C. Carpenter,
L. A. Taft. J. A. Field. F. L. Page. 8. IT.
Barnes, L. B. Dodge, Mrs. M. H. Clough,
C. L. Clough, W. E. Perkins, Mrs. G. C.
Carpenter, J. W. Vaughan, C. A. Carson,
C. C. Bixbv, F. W. Jackson, M. S. Rounds,
called to Barteaux and the latter said t
Shortly afterward the railroad officials, -,,- .,r,,,i work in olearimr the ''t the buildings burn
, , r-u:- tt t i xi tt. I ' ' . r I tv j at i
IIU'IIIUIIIK l niei r.HKiinri-r .1. .11. .uu, r t, f,rm Rnlton mount-in to
of St. Albans, accepted the station from Smw N-otohi M that there is an
open Hithway.
AN OFFICE ABOLISHED.
ITALLVNS SURRENDER
50 YARDS OF TRENCH
Denied Austrian Statement that They
Gave TJp Whole Trenches
East of Selx.
Rome, via Paris. May 24. The Aui-tri-itit-
statement that luli-ns surrendered
1ren.- east of Sr s was denied in an of
ficial bulletin t-dT, bich says that
the Italaes vnluctarily abandoned &1
jari" of t h in this vicinity but
cor.tin'ied to k'd 50 yards taken from
Ce execii.
That of Viceroy for Ireland to Be Done
Away With.
inaon, -May zt. t'remier Asquith. in
the House of Commons yesterday, an
nounced that the office of viceroy of Ire
land has been abolished, according to the
Daily Express.
Jrd inibome. whose resignation as
lord lieutenant hss not vet been ac
cepted, will be offered another poet of
importance unfler tne government.
1 he Duly .News savs that the scheme
for the solution of the Irish problem
...!.--. - ... . 1 .
-men nas reoeivea We largest support in
the cabinet in for an agreement betwen
the Irish leaders, accepting the princi
ple of separate parliaments for I'lster
and the ret of Ireland after the war but
until the end of the war the government
to be in the hands of a coalition execu
tive council, with officers equally distrib
uted between the parties.
Hoodooed.
Appealing to a lady for aid. an old
darky told her that through the Davton
flood he had lost everything, including
his wife and fix children.
"Why," said the dy, "I have seen you
before and I have helped you. Were y.m
aot the colored man who told me you had
lost your -wife and eix children by the
sinkirur of the Titanic!"
"Yeth, ma'am, dut wm me. MoV un
fort'nit mis dat eber w. Kamt keep
a-famlv nohow." Saa Francisco Argj-
the contractor
The structure cost not far from $75.-
000. It is used jointly bv the ( entral
Vermont and Boston A Maine. The new
station will not be rcadv for use for an
other month.
The defense offered was to the effect
that damp rowen placed in the barn on
.nA ihr.. krnw. il KnndMad Karl John Trow, C. L. Currier, A. L. Tierce,
J. 1. tailaghan, tl. J. iiougnton, n. n.
Caxfield, H. S. Parks, E. O. Holmes, C.
W. Martin, X. G. Mascott. D. W. Blod-
gett, A. P. Abbott, B. A. right, L. 1).
Martin, Mrs. W. E. Perkins."
Not without a generous sample of the
tedious discussion that marked or marred
Sandblad and Gustaf Sandhlad, who are
in Sweden. His mother, Mrs. Christina
Johnson, also lives in Sweden.
Mr. Johnson was born in Stockaryd,
Sweden. Nov. 10, 1872. He came "to
FOUND DEEP SNOW.
tHt. 3 was the probable cause ot the nrc. Am,ri(.a in 1S93i Earning the granite
Robert Cook and his wife told of visiting r,l in Oninrv The f.milv
the Smiths the morning following the fire move1 to jjg. ln ,904; Tha deceased other topics introduced during tk? even-
to carry provisions and testified that
was prominent in the local councils of
Mrs. Smith had told them that it was her u- sedih Order nf V. n h. sn.
On Top of Mount Kfllington in Vermont lielief that the fire was caused by the dinavian Brotherhood of North America
PAYS TAXES IN VERMONT.
Hetty Green's Valuation in Rockingham
Is ti 12,000.
Bellows Fall-, May 24. The listers
have finished their work for the town of
Rockingham. The largest taxpayer is
the International Paper Co., which pay
on a valuation of ?20.OO0.
Hetty Green is the largest individual
taxpayer. She is eed on a valua
tion of $112,000. Of this-. $12,000 is for
her home on Church street and the re
maining $100.0110 is personal property.
By paying her taxe here, where she
retains her residence, the richest woman
in the world escapes taxation in New
York.
On May 23.
Rutland. May 24. A Rutland party'
headed bv Walter G. Nourse, which
climbed to the summit of Mount Killing-
ton yesterday, found snow that was waist
deep on nearly all parts of the mountain
above 3.000 feet altitude. Where the
woods were thin the snow was gone but
throughout the evergreen forest it lay
deep on the ground. On the steep slopes
streams of water were running every
where beneath the slushy snow, making
travel very difficult. The drift over the
rockv portion near the summit were of
such character that it was very hazard-
heated rowen. also that a man named
Maeey was in the barn at 10 o'clock
smoking a pipe.
Mr. Cook admitted on cross examina
tion that Smith had worked for him once
and over charged him for his Ubor but
he harbored no ill feeling toward Smith
because of that disagreement. Mrs. Cook
also admitted that she had once pur
chased a pig from the Smiths and that
the pig was a poor ne but that unsat
isfactory trade did not cause her to feel
any dislike for the Smiths.
John Smith and his wife, two other
witnesses for the rei.pondcnt, told of be
ing at the Smith farm when the rowen
and belonged to the granite cutters' un
ion. He was an adherent of the Method
ist church.
Prayer services will, be held at the
house Friday afternoon at 2 o'clock. At
2:30 the funeral will take place in the
Hedding Methodist church, the' pastor.
Rev. B. G. Lipskv, officiating. Over the
Central Vermont railroad earlv Saturday
morning the body will be taken to Quin
ry, Mass., for interment.
DEATH OF YOUNG MAN.
ous to attempt to pick a route over the j WM put in tne j,.- ,n,i th, former tea-
rougn patn.
TO FREE WATERFORD BRIDGE.
Littleton, N. H, People Plan to Co-oper
ate with Vermonters.
Ijttleton. N. H., Mav 24. A commit
tee consisting of Myron H. Kichardon.
Henry F. Green, Fred H. Kng-li-h. Henry
E. Rifhardon and Robert Tut tie is
planning to free the Waterford Littleton
toll bn.lge! Vermont has already taken
action to pay for one half of the cost of
the brvlge. County ( ommiKnr George
H. Turner of Bethlehem -ill be inter-
k ed in regard to securing the stork
from owners on the New Hamp!iire sid.
Tie stoVhoMer are rhic'j LittUtt"
anlWattfor4 rrt-esu.
DOESN'T WANT THE MONEY.
Laura Johnson Won't Try te Collect
from Rev. C. C Wilson.
Boston, May 24 No attempt ill be
made to collect the $.1.fi5 awardnl Ms
I-iura Johnson last week in her f0.O0
breaoh of promise suij aeainst the Bev.
Charles Chase Wtln if KoJin.Ule.
"We knew Rev. Wilson had no money
when ie bro'.ight the suit." said P.!ph
H. Willard. Mis Johnson's attorney.
"All we really iMuiyht was vindication,
and this e he s-ured. Now the
1-oie mai'fr ran re!-"
The n -tor's attorney has filed a mo.
tified to having told his cousin, Osborn
Smith, that it was dangerous to have the
damp rowen in the barn. On Oct. 8 John
Smith again visited bis uncle's farm and
his attention was attracted by the con
dition of the rowen. causing him to in
vestigate. He said the romen was hot
and white and he advised his rouin to
remove the rowen to another place or
the barn would burn. His advice wj
not taken and 12 days later the barn wis
burned.
In bis opening argument the state's at
torney calied attention to the tetim"ny
of John Smith, relating to the dangero'is
condition of the roen on Oct. 8 but the
Are did not occur until nearly two weeks
after that date. In rebuttal Mr. Char!
Smith denied that khe had told the t ook
that the rowen probably cause. the fir
t-.-n t) hae the ver.net m and. b-Jt
this mil not be ruled foe tbout aa-'or that she bad eaid that Maeey was in th young mans a.uaintan e e
other week. the btrn at l'J o'clock that nigts.
Anthony Carr.po Recently Came to Bane
from New York.
Anthony Cempo. aged IS. parsed away
at the home of his arents. 116 River
sireet. !at night at II o'clock. Th young
man had been in declining health for
three years, and it was on the advice of
physicians that he left New ork in the
Utter part of 1314 and came to Barre in
hope that the change of surroundings
would prove beneficial t" his health. He
is survived by bis parents. Mr. and Mrs.
.?oeph Campo; by a sister. Miss Annie
(impo; and by to brothers. James
Campo and Thedre Campo. The youne
man was U.rn in Italy May 22.
and came to New York ith his parents
in the spring of 1!14.
The funeral was held at the h"Ue this
afternoon at 2 oVhxk and interment a
made in Hope rero-terv. A number of
rte-1
the b.dy to the l of burial.
ing, the council finally came to a decisive
stand. Alderman Glysson thought the
authors of the petition should be heard,
inasmuch as most of them are taxpayers,
while the Mormons here in the city, h
said, probably do not pay taxes. Alder
man Healy had something to say. about
the allegations brought against the Mor
mon church in times past and attempted
to give a tabloid history of the cult. Al
derman Reynolds let it be. known that ha
wished to be informed so far as the baser
charges of immorality were concerned
and he was unwilling to discriminate
against any church until charges wen
proven. Alderman Rossi's remark
breathed the same degree of tolerance
and Alderman Shurtleff, too, was for giv
ing all churches a free shake at the pub
lic square if they wanted one.
Something of a weakness tor digres
sions and pointless and irrelevant discus
sion hovered around the consideration of
a pithy note from the Barre & Mont
pelier Traction t Power Co.. in which the
traction people fold of how much they
plan to do in the South Main street pav
ing project. Owing to financial stringen
cy, the communication said, the company
would find it impossible to pay any part
of the coot of paving the street, as pro
je, ted by the council sometime ago. Re
gretting it inability to participate in the
chh- improvement, the company point-!
to the depleted condition of its treasury
and to the fact that its November bond
iha not been met.
Tfiere -ere thoe of the aldermen whi
fa voted re inking the company's fran
chise. hnh mskes it incumbent trpoai
(Continued on fourti p?.) '
