Citizen
"TJie pohet who isn't known in his
own &4 Ny can safely lay the blame
at the dc XKDr advertising Proof
A man doesn't know what is in him
until he tries and he hasn't tried
until he has advertised Scribe
VOL. XXXV, :0. 34
HYDE PARK, VERMONT, WEDNESDAY, MAY 24, 1916.
$1.25 A YEAR
MM MM
This blue X means that your
subscription expires with this
..number and that no more
papers will be sent you unless
your anbscription is renewed.
Renew at once so as to receive
next issue of paper..
Custom is old-fashioned
and easy going. Some of its
ways won't do for our present
day. Have you the BEST
in your lenses ? Come in and
let me tell you about them.
A. R. CAMP 3 ELL,
Optometrist and Jeweler,
Morrisville, Vermont.
BUSINESS NOTICES.
M
BIG DEMAND 1 Will
pay ?8 to $9 per ton de
livered at Morrisville. I
want everything you
have to sell in old Junk
OSCAR KAHN
Tel. 23-5 Lake Street, Morrisville, Vt.
Morrisville's Original Junk Man I
JOIN THE DIAMOND
Club now. 5 cents starts
you and you will soon own a
nice Diamond.
Call in and let us explain.
H. J. EDMUNDS,
Optometrist and Jeweler,
Jvlorrisville, Near Depot, Vermont
Fo Sale. Small, young horse. Extra driv
er. Enquire at this office.
Wanted. Experienced Table Girls for June
term ol nl court. Addiest Hydb "ark inn.
Wanted. To buy some good Hens.
A. VV. Waits, Morrisville.
For Sale. We have one Potato Planter left
Will sill cheap. Call and see it.
A. W. Waite, Morrisville.
(Cash Paid. Highest Cash Price paid (or
halves, theap cows, Bulls ana Hogs.
Tel. 1 24-3 1 John Miner, Hyde Park.
Girl Wanted I Wanted, a girl for general
housekeeping; three in family. No washing. Ap
ply at once to Mrs. E. G. Page, Hyde Park.
Lost. Lamoille County Savings Bank & Trust
Company Deposit Book No. 12,252, issued May
12,1914. Finder will kindly return book to the
Bank or to the owner.
For Sale. Registered Jersey Bull, one year
two montus;; tine individual, strong ana vigorous,
straight back. level rump, solid color. Larries
blood of Golden Ferns Ladd" "Poges 9th" of
Hood f arm and the "Worden." Also have sev
eral younger bulls, equally as good. Have a sec
ond band St. Albans Junior Tread Power, suitable
tor running a separator. -
E. B. Collins, R. F. D. 2. Hyde Park, Vt.
MORRISVILLE
Now the ice man!
Commandery meeting Thursday even'g.
Miss Alice Amsden spent Saturday in
Hardwick.
Miss Alice Marrs has been visiting
friends in Colchester the past week.
Miss Marjorie Brown was a guest on
Saturday of Miss Elsie Perkins of Wol
cott. F. E. Putnam of Brattleboro, general
agent of the Travelers' L f; Iosurance
Co., was in town the latter part of last
week.
Mrs. Joseph Riendeau and Mrs. Ralph
Averill of Hardwick were guests Friday
of the former's daughter, Mrs. Charl.s
McClellan.
The Misses Carolyn and Dora Stew art
of Montpelier came last Friday to v sit
their sister, Mrs. Ned Philips, and father,
John Stewart.
t-SaleebyJs-----
URPRISiG VALUE:
. In Women's
SUITS AND COATS
Most every woman who comes here for her Suit or Coat
seems well satisfied to find the exceptionally large assortments,
the pleasing styles and more than anything else, our remark
ably low prices
We can fit most any size woman. We fit the fat.
New assortment in Women's Dress Skirts in plain colors,
stripes and checks, also White Wash Skirts, in regular and
extra sizes, and White Corduroy Skirts.
Big assortment in White and Colored Washable Dresses,
Graduating Dresses, Taffeta and Silk Poplin Dresses in many
colors. Every Dress priced below its value.
Girls' Dresses from sizes 6 to 14. ' White and 'Colored
Washable Dresses in a great many styles. Prices from 48c
to $4.00.
Women s Waists of every description. . Your selection
can be easily made from such a variety as we are showine.
w aisis irom oc 10 vd.vv.
Summer Hosiery, Underwear and Gloves for most every
want.
Men's and Boys' Clothing
NO ADVANCE IN PRICE.
We can truthfully say that our Clothing Department is
at its best just now. This Spring we have had some late de
liveries owing to the scarcity of materials, but now our stock
is complete. You will find some very beautiful patterns in
the STYLE-CRAFT and other dependable makes in our stock.
Men's and Young Men's Suits from $7,50 to $22.50
We Sell the Best in Men's Furnishings.
A. J. SALEEBY
"THE STORE THAT SAVES YOU MONEY."
JOHNSON, A jt ji VERMONT
An Evening Session at P. A.
In order that the townspeople may
have an opportunity to inspect the daily
work of Peoples Academy, an evening
session will be held on Thursday even
ing, June 1. Classes will be conducted
the same as in the day time, covering a
half day's schedule. It is planned to
have four periods of thirty minutes each,
so there will be at least twenty-four dif
ferent classes in session during the even
ing. This will give the visitors oppor
tunity to inspect the various branches
and departments of the Academy's work.
The school session will begin at 7 o'clock
and extend until 9 o'clock. At the lat
ter hour the visitors will assemble in the
Academy hall when a program will be
carried out which will have lor its object
the presenting of the need of a new
school building. Remarks will be made
by members ol the School Board, and
the Special Committee, by Principal
Sears, Superintendent Howe by R. G.
Reynolds, Former Principal, and by
others. Refreshments will be served by
the Home Economics Department.
Everybody is cordially invited to attend.
This will be an unusual opportunity J
which no one can afford to miss. Kind
ly reserve this date, June 1st, Academy
Building, at 6 o'clock.
L. E. Dyke of Nashua, N. H., came last
week for an indefinite stay.
George Saxby has commenced work in
the McFarland hardware store.
Sack Bros, of Bristol open a dry goods
store in Burke block about June 10.
Mrs. H. H. Dodge went to Burlington
Friday to visit her mother, Mrs. C. R
Kent.
Mrs. Sarah Lunt has gone to Leba
non, M. H., tor a visit with her son, U
Lunt.
W. G. McClintock has gone to New
York, where he is a guest of H. R. C,
Watson.
The Camp Fire Girls of the Universal
ist church will serve a supper Thursday,
May 25.
Mrs. E. A. Bentley has been confined
to the house the past two weeks, suffer
Ing from grip.
Robert Sparks has been off duty from
tne tannery, sunering irom a lame lacu
since last Friday.
C.J. Lease was qff duty as teller at the
local bank for a few days recently, suf
fering from lumbago.
Mrs. C. M. Chapin and infant daugh
ter, Caroline, have been guests of the for
mer'a parents, Mr. and Mrs. C. H. Slo
cum, the past week.
L. C. Bentley has been unable to at
tend to his duties at the Briggs drug
store on account of illness. He was able
to be in. the store part of the time today
Mrs. Anna Jones and son, Walter, left
Monday for a two weeks' visit with the
former's mother, Mrs. Flora Doty, and
sister, Mrs. W. D. Grout, and family, in
Worcester, Mass.
Mrs. Arthur McDonald of Laconia, N.
H., who was called to Vermont by the
death of her aunt, Mrs. Lucretia Collins
pent Tuesday with her uncle, Charles
Merrick, returned home today.
Mrs. Stella Folsom, who was in Bos
ton to purchase new goods, recently,
was in town several days last week as
sisting Miss Taylor and Miss Minnie,
who are in charge of her store here.
Mr. and Mrs. H. J. Fisher left Monday
for a visit in Brunswick, Me., with the,
former's sister, Mrs. Oritha Andrews,
and in Freeport, Me., with his niece, Mrs
Otto S. Raspe. Mrs. Fisher will eo to
White River Junction before she returns
home to attend the Vermont State Fed
eration of Woman's Clubs and will be a
guest while there of her sister, Mrs. C
R. Jaraason.
F. C. Peck, administrator of the W. W.
Peck estate, has sold the Peck farm on
Morristown Plains and the Tenneyplace
nearly 300 acres In all including the
stock, tools, etc., to Hiram Moffattof
Bolton Center, P. Q. Possession was
given Monday. Dan Russell, who hat
been carrying on the farm for some time,
will remain until the new owner can
move his family here.
Mrs. C. J. Thomas returned from Bur
lington Monday.where she went Sunday
to visit her husband at the Mary Fletch
er hospital. Mr. Thomas, who under.
went a very serious operation for osteo
arthritis, a peculiar disease of the hip,
which was performed by a bone special
ist from New York, is doing well and
will probably be able to be moved borne
in about two weeks, but will have to
wear a cast for three months or more.
The many friends of Mrs. Eliza Strong,
who went to the Fanny Allen hospital
about three weeks ago. will regret to
learn that ber condition does not im
prove. Tuesday, Mr. and Mrs. Frank
Sttong of Stowe, her daughter. Miss
Mary Strong, and Mrs. C. J. Thomas,
went to Burlington by auto Sunday.
It was planned to take her to Berwick
Me., where she would be cared for by ber
niece, Miss Amy Marston, but she was
not able to leave the hospital.
It's Clean Up Time
The Village Improvement Committee
of the Woman's Club wishes to call at
tention to the fact that the coming week
is an excellent time in which to complete
the work of cleaning up all rubbish, tin
cans, ecc, in back yards and sheds, so
that we may present a trim and tidy ap
pearance on Decoration Day, when we
are apt to have visitors who may be
critical. Many of the townspeople have
of course already attended to this part
ot their spring Cleaning, but it is noted
with regret that some otherwise worthy
citizens do not seem to realize the sani
tary and economic value of a well-kept
backyard. Not only that, they display
a tendency to litter with rubbish places
that have been painstakingly cleaned up,
a condition which would surely not ex
ist if they took thought about it.
The committee also wishes to suggest
that Clark Park be given some attention
by the townspeople. There is much to
be done in the way of cleaning out under
brush, arranging for drainage, etc., in
this stretch of land, and ideas for im
provement will be welcomed. This place
should one day be one of the show places
of the village, as well as a place for recre
ation and rest. One section of the park
forms a natural amphitheatre, which
could be turned to great advantage in
construction of an outdoor theatre.
Keep it in mind.
Farmers' Dooryards
There is nothing that adds to the at
tractiveness of a farm more than a nice
lawn and well-kept doorvard. Farm
ing utensils scattered promiscuously and
tumbled down wood piles depreciate the
value of an otherwise good farm. We do
not see many such ill-kept dooryards here
abouts, rather they are slick and clean
and show thriftiness. Especially is this
true on the Laporte road. We note the
great improvement E. W. . Webster has
made on his premises. Not long ago the
buildings thereon were in a negleeted
condition, but when "Ned" went "back
to the farm" the first thing he did was
to renovate the buildings and premises.
By a judicious use of paint and the exer
cise of good judgment, he has made the
buildings and the dooryard "observed of
all observers" and they elicit favorable
comment from the passer-by on the La
porte road. Down that way the farm
ers seem to vie with each other as to
who can make their premises the most
attractive and as a result all present
fine appearance. Probably there is more
travel over this road than any other
road In this part of Lamoille County
and these well kept premises are a great
advertisemeut and an indication of pros
perity. . .......
Magoon Hudson
This morning at six o'clock at the
Congregational parsonage occurred the
marriage of Harold Thomas Magoon
and Miss Louise Susie Hudson, both of
Morrisville. Rev. W. E. Baker performed
the ceremony, after which Mr. and Mrs,
Magoon left by automobile for Water
bury, going from there to the home of
the bride's parents at Crown Point, N. Y.
The contracting parties are both well
known and highly esteemed in Morris
ville, where Mrs. Magoon has been em
ployed for the past two years, for the
last few months in the family of C. H
Slocum. ' Mr. Maeoon is a native of
Stowe. He was for several years a pop
ular clerk in the E. W. Terrill grocery
and several months ago purchased the
wood business of F. L. Stewart.
Congratulations and best wishes are
in order from a host of friends in Morris
ville and vicinity.
eg -wuMwwwMMuuMuiiMuuuuiiauauuiaLrjuuujoitiUCUlxjQUC
THE EARLE STORE
Misses' Linene Dresses
We are showihg a pretty line of Misses' Linene
Dresses in pink, blue and white, that attract attention
because of fheir simplicity and durability. They are
easy to launder and are really a good, practical tub suit.
Special Value in Silk Hose
The Burson people have gotten out a black Silk
Hose to sell for 50 els. that beats anything as yet pro
duced in this line. It is knit to fit, without seams, and
sells for 50 cents same as some others without the Burson
features. Just ask to see them.
Ladies' Neckwear
Is among the arrivals this week. There are a lot of
pretty things in Collars. Collar and Cuff sets and Crepe
de Chine Ties in a variety of colors.
Ladies' Auto Caps
l Here is one of the most sensible articles gotten out
for a lady's comfort. They will stay on without pinning,
have visors that act as wind shields to the eyes when
needed; come in a variety of colors and sell at 50 cents
and one dollar.
A New Line
Of Children's Hats and the nattiest assortments of
Babies' Bonnets you ever saw. They are the cutest ever
and sell for the popular price of 25 and 50 cents.
GEO. F. EARLE,
MORRISVILLE, - - VERMONT
13
IiMSfiiUaSIEIEfiiy
P. A. Commencement
Commencement week at Peoples Acad
emy will begin tnis year on inursaay
evening, June 8, the closing event being
the graduation exercises on Wednesday
evenine. June 14. The opening event
will be the class play, "Choicr," which
will be given two nights. The Junior re.
ception will be held Saturday morning,
June 10. The baccalaureate sermon will
be delivered by Rev. W. E. Baker at the
Congregational church on Sunday even
ing, June 11. The prize speaking takes
place Monday evening, class day, alum
business meeting and banquet Tuesday
Where's "Bunch"?
Me. Editor:
Is it really necessary that some person
should enter a complaint against an an
tornobilist for exceeding the speed limit
in our village in order to have the law
enforced after we have paid for the mak
ing of the law? I am very much afraid
that we will have an awful accident here
in our village before the authorities wake
up to the fact that some are in the habit
of running their machines through the
streets at a rate that would be impos
sible for them to check in time of neces
sity.
I hope I am not the only one who has
thought of this and that something may
be done before we have cause for regret.
A Citizex.
Lamoille Go. Medical Society
The Lamoille County Medical Society
will hold a meeting at Hotel Randall on
Thursday afternoon of this week ft two
o'clock. Dr. Gale, professor of surgery
at Dartmouth College, will be present
and read a paper on "The Surgical Aspect
of Obstetics." The public most cordially
invited to this meeting.
"Oscar" Has a Motor Truck
Oscar Kahn has purchased a new Ford
auto truck, to be used in addition to his
other equipment in his junk business.
Since coming tS Morrisville, several
years ago, Oscar has built up a large
business in Morristown and adjacent
towns, has increased to such an extent
the past year that be found it necessary
to add the truck this season.
Send this paper to your absent friend.
It is better than a letter.
HYDE PARK
.. More Hyde Park news on pages 3 & 4.
Darn those doves I Caa't the "corpor
ation" do something with them ?
Mrs. By ts" right and daughter Nat
alie of Barre are visiting friends in town,
Mrs. Lena Fitzgerald is quite ill at the
home of her parents, Mr. and Mrs. A. F.
Boyce.
Miss Anna Edson of Woodsville, N. H.,
is a guest at W. D. Strong's.
The Odd Fellows worked the Initiatory
degree upon a Morrisville
evening. '
Floyd Kinney of Orleans spent a few
days here recently with his mother, Mrs. ,
Maud Kinney.
The L. C. A. boys played ball at Jeffer.
sonville yesterday and won out by a-'
score of 9 to 2. 'Twas a good game.
J. C. Phillips, who conducts a chain of
ou restaurants in mew morgana through
out New bngland, is spending a few days
with C. E. Savery at the Hyde Park Inn.
The L, Q, A. baccalaureate sermon be
fore the graduating class will be given
at the Cong'l church next Sunday even
ing by Rev. Mr. Hamlin, The public are
cordially invited.
Simon May, aged 90 years, died Tues
day at the home of J. M. Miller in John
son. He had been in poor health a long
time and died of a fractured hip and old
age. He was an old-time resident of this
town, where, he lived the greater part of
his life. He is survived by one son, Wil
liam May of Wolcott. The funeral will
be held from the Cong'l church in this
village Thursday afternoon at oue o'clock
and the burial will be in the Holbrook
yard at Centerville.
F. C, LUGE COMPANY
Educator Shoes
for every member of the family.
the Packard Shoe
for men. Rubber soles in high,
shoes and Oxfords.
Queen Quality Shoes
for Ladies in a large variety of lat
est models in high boots and
pumps.
THIS WEEK
We are making a Special Showing of White Shoes and
'umps for Ladies, Misses and Children.
See this exhibit and examine our general line
F. G. LUGE COMPANY
Morrisville, - - - Vermont
