T?7
MAILS ?
From San Francisco:
Mlonia, Jane 21.
For San Francisco:
Mat son la, June 2S.
Frotn Vancouver:
Niagara, July 12.
For Vancouver:
Niagara, June 23.
VAA
12 PAGES HONOLULU, TERRITORY OF HAWAII, TUESDAY, JUNE 20, 1916. 12 PAGES.
Evening Bulletin. Est 18S2, No. 6,06
PRICE FIVE CENTS
Hawaiian Sur. Vol. XXIII. No. 7547
am
A1ffjlo)
JU aiUWL
A
55
5?
.
m a. v a - v mm mm m
ms
UIMM i
t 73 5 T5
0
3
1
Carranza
ras fiu;:s
BACK AT VARIOUS
POINTS OF EAST?
German Despatches Indicate
Defeat of Slavic Offensive
; Above Lutsk ,
NOCHANGENOTEDON
BLOODY VERDUN LINE
Paris Says Attacks on Hi!! 321
Repulsed, Heavy Bombard
ment Elsewhere
Ao"Utd Preta my federal 'Wireleaa)
PETROGRAD, Russia, June 20-
The Russians hav occupied the towns
of Seadova, Stroglnetz and Gliboka on
the River Ssreth, according to an of
ficial announcement.
BERLIN, Germany, June 20.
The German troops under . Gen.
von Linsingen and other com
manders have succeeded in check
ing the great tide of Slavic soldi
er and are in turn gaining
apainst the enemy, according' to
official announcement today.
The Germans are declared ; to
have broken the resistance of the
Russians at various .points north
east of Lutsk .and to be fighting
their way forward, y
GERMANS CANT GAIN, r
. ; : SAY PARIS DESPATCH
(AaaorUted. Pma by Federal Wlralett)
PARIS, " France;' 'June 20.
Three German attacks were made
today north-west of Ilill '321 but
all were repulsed. The Germans
are carrying Out, a . heavy bom
bardment of Vaur, Champ.itre and
Chattancourt.V v , J ?
4
GERMAN OFFICIAL I
CABLEGRAMS !
GERMAN HEADQUARTERS. June
19. Western war theater: South of
the Franco-Belgian frontier to the
Somme lively fighting activity con-
. tlnues. A French Jirnd-grenade attack-near
Chavonne, east of f My, was
repulsed. , Gernlan blastings on
heights Canilenmorte and Argonnes
resulted with got A success, i
In the Meuso district fire ) engage
ments revived appreciably, only to
wards the evening time. In the night
time It reached great vivacity fn.Mor-
thomme and west of it, as in the front
sector from .Thiaumont forest until
. Fort Vaux. As only now reported, hos
tile advance on the night of June 18,
in Thia umont forest was repulsed. Oth
er attempts of attacks yesterday were
frustrated by Hte.
In the engagements of the last two
days, 100' French, In round figures,
were', inrfsonered . Several night at
tacks by the- enemy in Fumln forest
were flatly repcited in hand-grenade
fights. ' , '
An English biplane fell down near
Lens, and another north of Arras. Both
came down from air engagements and
two of the inmates are dead. A French
aeroplaie was shot down west of Ar
gonnes. A German air squadron at
tacked railroad station and military
factories in Baccarat and Raonletappe.
Eastern war, theater: North -part
no special events. Numerous bombs
were thrown on railroad tracks In Lya
chevttshi and Euu isle where there are
mllltarv transports. Russian attacks
were partly repulsed by successful ad
vances in Styr west or Koiki and in
Stochod in the district railroad Kovel
Rovno trmy gro ip under Gen. von Lin
singen. Northwest, Germans engaged
in fight which was favorable for them.
Prisoners and iwoty increased.
Southwest of Luck the Russians at
tacked in the direction of Myogrochow.
The situation of Gen. Count von Both
mers army is unchanged.
PUNAH0U ANNIVERSARY
PROGRAM IN BRIEF
-
Following Is the program in
brief of the Punahau seventy-
fifth anniversary celebration:
Tonight Anniversary exer-
ciseB, 8 o'clock, at Kawalahao
church. Commemoration exer-
dses. Addresses by Prof. Armin
O. Leuschner and Prof. William
Lyon Phelps.
Tomorrow Punahou Pageant
4 o'clock. Alexander Field. Puna-
hou campus. The story of Puna-
hou depicted" in 11 episodes.
Thursday Punahou Day,' all
day on Punahou campus. First
event reception by trustees and
their wires and mainland guests,
begins at 9:30 a. m. Afternoon
events until & or 6 o'clock. 4
.f f
t
Soldiers
Fire
Late News At A Glance
INVESTIGATION CHIYO MA
Advices received today from Tok
Hip loss of the T. K. K. steamer Cuiy
Island off Hongkong. March 31. begu
iiiKtri t Court before Judee Takatori a
tori. Full reports from all officials o
submitted to the court and therefor
arained are Capt. Ernest Bent ana
ing is expected to last several days.
FORT DE RUSSY TO GIVE UP CITY WATER.
Fort De Russy wlil give up the use of city water about July 1, begin
ning a service of its own from Fort Ruger. A big pipe line will be run
down to the former post from Fort Ruga r to supply the entire place.
Fort Ruger has always used water of its own. pumping it with Its own
plant, but water for De Russy. has been purchased from the city. The plan
to supply water by the Ruger plant is a part of the general change that
is going on at De Russy In the enlargement of the garrison. The value of
water supplied by the city at Fort De Russy Is reckoned at 700 a year.
WARING CASE RECORD CONTAINS 1400 PAGES
v Complete notes on the hearing of Capt John B. H. Waring, Medical
Corps, Schofield Barracks, have bee n ; received at headquarters of the
u.n-titan tonartment and vill b made Dublic soon in department orders.
The record of trial and exhibits attached make up a total of 1400 type-j
written pages. Capt Waring was tried for refusal to do duty on the
ground that Hawaiian suniignt arrects nis eyes ana manes mm unui ior
service. ' 4
- SUPERINTENDENT. FORBES GOES TO HILO TOMORROW.
rv.orio n rnrhM BimpHnt pnden t of nublic works, will leave tomorrow
for Hllo, going at the invitation of the board of supervisors ol that city i
to lay out plans for a civic center and a modern high," school. 'He'
will stay in Hilo for about a week, returning to Honolulu in tune to arrange
affairs before leaving for his vacation trip to Boston. L
In the trip to the mainland Forbes will go first to Vashon Island, near
Mn PnrhPM la EDendlnz the summer at their home, and will
then go on to the East He will spend
from there directly to san rrancisco
Jane 28 for the mainland. '
, OFFICIAL SERVICES HERE FOR YUAN SHIH-KAI
Announcement was made from the, Chinese consulate today that official
funeral services in memory of Yuan Shih-Kai, late president of China,
will . be held at the Chinese consulat 905 Sheridan street, at 10 o'clock
next Monday morning. - The services here are held uion instructions of
the Chinese. government --; v j, -i1'
V C. NO INVESTIGATION TO BE HELD FOR A YEAR ; r
,'At'a meeting o the publle ntllltles commission 'this afternoon' Chair
yn'an pUrles,R. Forbes' recommendation to take n4 further steps In the in
Testlration of the Walahl Electric Company,-Lihue, Ivauai, until .the zom
1 ny has had opportunity to operate?
proved. Thia franchise is expected to n approvea oy uongress very boch.
.v. Forbes further recommended that "th companr be ' notified to take
steps to provide for a depreciation fuad." Such a fund to be. used for the
purpose of renewing, restoring, replacing or substituting depreciated prop
erty in order to keep the plant ln'a'state of efficiency. J. I. Bozowich, in
ventor of a street and stop indicator for street cars, was referred to Man
ager !. G. Ballentyne of the Rapid Transit Company.
NEW YORK STOCK '
MARKET TODAY
Following are the closing prices of
stocks on the New York market to
day, sent by the Associated Press over
the Federal Wireless.
i;, Yester-
: ' : Today, day.
Alaska Gold ............ 20 1 19
American Smelter ..... 93U
American Sugar Rfg... 111 110'2
American Tel. A Tel... 130 130
Anaconda Copper 83 S2
Atchison .............. 104H 104
Baldwin Loco. ......... 86 ' 85
Baltimore & Ohio...... 89'2 89
Bethlehem Steel ...... 435 J.....
Calif. Petroleum 19', 18
Canadian Pacific ...... 176 : 1752
CM.&St P. (St Paul) 97 97
Colo. Fuel H Iron...... 42 41
Crucible Steel 80 79
Erie Common . .. 36 36
General Electric ....... 168 168
General Motors ....... -J.....
Great Northern Pfd.... 120'2 120
Inter. Harv, N. J.,.....114 113'2
Kennecott Copper 49 504
Lehigh RV R.-. 80 78
New York Central...... 104 103
Pennsylvania .......... 57 57ft
Ray Consol 21 2V2
Southern Pacific ...... 97 96
Studebaker 137 137
Tennessee Copper ..... 45', 44
Union Pacific 136'4 135
U. S. Steel ............ 84'. 83
U. S. Steel Pfd......... 1172 117',
Utah .................. f 78 77',
Western Union ........ 92'2 94
Westinghouse ..... 59 58
Bid. t Ex-dividend, t Unquoted.
CONVICTED "DOCTOR"
SAID TO BE AT OLD
BUSINESS ONCE MORE
Word reached Dr. J. S. B. Pratt
of the board of health this morning
that Kaneshige, a Japanese ' doctor"
of Kohala, recently convicted in that
district and in Honolulu of practising
medicine without a license, is again
practising In Kohala.
"We are told tn at the county attor
ney Is taking up the case," says Dr.
Pratt. '"Kaneshige was fined $25 for
this same thing at Kohala, and $100
here in Honolulu, which ought to De
a lesson for him. Maybe he will get
$200 next time. It ought to be pret
ty good evidence that he -has a big
practise when he keeps up this work.''
President Brax of Brazil will nego
tiate with the Interested government
for the leasing of German and Aus
trian steamers interned in Brazilian
ports. Brazil at present is suffering
from a serious shortage on ships.
Three of the passenger train crew
were badly injured when a New York
Central passenger train ran into a
freight wreck near Farnham, N. Y.
on U. S.
RU LOSS BEGINS TODAY.
lo state that the official inquiry of
o Maru. which was wrecked on Lenia
n tuis mornine in the Tokio Marine
nd associate judges, Nagura and Ka-
a the Chivo Maru have already been
a the only persons that will be ex-
ief Officer Hachiro Sakai. THe near-
a few day In Washington, coming;
ana ; onoiuiu. ne leaveu ure uu
fnr a year unier a franchise, was ap
FURNISH FIGHT
American and National League
Leaders Crowded by Strong
Team Rushing to Front
(Associated Presi by Federal Wireleaa)
DETROIT, Mich., June 20. The
Tigers won a close and exciting game
from the Indians this afternoon and
are now but one game and a half be
hind the league leaders. New York
won from Boston today and the Yan
kees are now but one half game be
hind the Indians. This week, 'should
give a good line on the strength of
the teams as the Tigers and Yankees
have been showing speed in their re
cent' games. Any one of the, four
teams may be the leader in the Amer
ican League before the week is out In
the National League Philadelphia
took the first game from the Trolley
Dodgers and are now but one game
behind Robbie's crew. The scores of
the games today were as follows:
American League.
At Boston New York 4, Boston 1.
At Fniladelphia Washington 2,
Philadelphia 1.
At Detroit Detroit 2. Cleveland 1.
At St. Louis Chicago 4, St. Louis 2.
National League.
At New York Sew York 4, Boston
2; Boston 1, New York 0.
At Brooklyn Philadelphia 7. Brook
lyn 4 (first game).
At Pittsburg Pittsburg 6. St. Iouis
6 (11th innirg).
. At Chicago and Cincinnati Rain.
AMERICAN LEAGUE.
Won. Lost. Pet
Cleveland :2 22 . 593
New York HO 21 5S8
Detroit 31 21 564
Washington v 23 2Z 558
Chicago 20 20 500
Boston 27 27 500
St. Louis 1!) 31 3S0
Philadelphia 16 36 308
NATIONAL LEAGUE. .
Won. Lost Pet.
Brooklyn 29 18 617
Philadelphia , 29 20 592
New York 24 22 522
Boston 23 22 511
Chicago 25 27 481
Cincinnati 24 28 462
Pittsburg .21 27 43S
St. Louis 22 33 400
An average of 50,000 documents are
signed by President Wilson each year.
JAM LEAGUES
Troops Afear
SIGNAL CORPS LI
HEAD GOES TO
Cable From Washington Calls
7 Maj. Edgar Russel to
Fort Houston
Maj. Edgar Russel, head of the Sig
nal Corps of the Hawaiian department.
Is summoned to the Southern depart
ment presumably for active aervice,
through a cable fionv Washington, announce-!
toda&at headquarters. The
Signal Corps officer kill report for
duty at Fort Sam Houston, Texas.
Maj. Russel has been on Oahu only
about lour months, (laving .arrived
here in February from Washington by
way of .Panama, where the was held up
by the big slides and came overland
to join the transport Logan on which
boat he reached here,' Yesterday Capt
Hickman of Field Company E and 75
men were ordered to San Francisco to
report for duty with , the Southern de
partment and Maj. Russel will sail on
the same boat with this company, the
transport Thomas, due her on or
about July 5.
This practically strips Oahu of Sig
nal Corps, men as 18 men, making, up
two radio sections, left for the bor
der several weeks ago,, there, being no
order from -Washington; as jet to fill
their places. y
COMPANIES GIVE
EXPLANATION OF
lEiiiois
, , .. ;- iiimi' M. n-...' aikJume. - ine waier on me iana. saiu
Plantations Willing 10 ray AQto attach a high value to the property.
Who Are Entitled But Take
Time to Determine
That the alleged labor troubles at
Honotfaa -and Kukulhaele . plantations
were never so serious as reports re
celved in Honolulu indicated, that It is
the intention of the companies to pay
the bonuses agreed upon and that
steps nave beea and are being taken
to that end, were advices received by
mail this morning by J. W. Waldron
from . W. P. Naquin, manager of the
Honokai. plantation. He adds that he
expects na strike nor serious trouble
of any kind witn the laborers and that
within a short time they will. all re
ceive their bonuses.
Relative to the reported labor
troubles, or dissatisfaction on the part
of plantation laborers, on the proper
ties of the Honokaa and Pacific Sugar
Mill companies, J. W, Waldron this
(Continued on page two)
CIRCLE DRIVE MATTER
MAY COME TO SUPERVISORS
Recommendation that Circle Drive
be adopted as the niauka outlet for
Puunui will be made in a report to be
submitted to the supervisors by the
city planning commission tonight
This action comes after months of
delay. Extension of Laiml road was
recommended In February by the com
mission, but held up on request of tue
Country Club and George Sherman,
interested property owners. After a
number cf meetings -at which both
skies were heard the Circle Drive plan
was adopted.
Now Puunui's troubles are up to
the board. Sherman and the Country
Club have both declared that they
would fight the Circle Drive plan in
the courts if necessary.
ESTIMATE.0F NEEDED
ROAD MONIES NOT READY
Estimate of the amo;nt needed for
all necessary road and street improve
ments under th? proposed bond issue
has not been completed by the city en
gineer, George M. Collins. Collins has
been working nij-hts and Sundays on
this estimate bat has found it a great
er task than he anticipated. He de
clares that he is not coming to the
board with an estimate until he is sure
that it is correct in every detail, de
spite the impatience of some of the
members.
SAYS POOR STREET IS
KEEPING CUSTOMERS AWAY.
A petition from A. Tv Longley, su
perintendent of the Terrftorial Market
ing Division, asking that the foot of
Smith street be repaired, wKI be read
at tonight's meeting of the board of
supervisors. He says the street there
is in such poor condition that he has
difficulty in getting merchants and
consignors to come to the market and
nis own machines have an unneces
sarily large repair bill.
RWtamoras
PAYS $250,000
Big Kauai Deal Virtually Closed
at Directors' Meeting
t Yesterday
6000 ACRES7ND 2000
CATTLE ARE INCLUDED
A. S. Wilcox Disposes of Con
trolling Interest Through
Manager Sanborn
Hanalei ranch, also known as the
Princeyille Plantation, on Kauai, fig
ures in the largest aud most Impor
tant deal In plantation or ranch lands
that this territory has known in many
years. With the exception of certain
minor details this transaction. Involv
ing a quarter of a million dollars, wast
completed yesterday. The deal Is be
tween, the Princevllle Plantation Com
pany, present, owners, ana tne Linue
Plantation Company. Ltd.. and the ar
rangement wasumade at. a meeting of
the directors of the. latter company
held yesterday. The consideration la
reported to be $250,000. ; V
It is understood that the deal was
negotiated by W. F Sanborn, manager
of the property, who had an option
which was purchased by - the , Lihue
company for $10,000;. also that Man
ager Sanborn retains a one-tenth inter
est in the plantation and will continue
as its. manager. - . , - . ".':. .. ,
A. S. Wilcox has been the principal
owner of the property and president
of the corporation. ; The land ,com
prises about 6Q00 acres, c which 700
is rice la.nd, and . there are about 2000
tread of cattle with the ranchi Prince
vllle plantation was one of the first
sugar producers In the territory, but
has not been raising cane for a long
time. - The water on the land, is said
In local business -circles -the -price
Is Regarded as a substantial One and
an indication that the Lihue directors
have much faith in the future business
to be handled through the ranch, cat
tle and rice products," a
TREVINO'S EDICT FAILS i
TO SCARE PERSHING
WASHINGTON, D. C June 20
Despite the threats of Gen. Tre vino
that he would attack Gen. Pershing's
forces If the latter made any move
except to retire towards the American
border, Pershing has detachments op
erating southwards. ?:
In West Namiquipa he is pursuing
bandits, in " minor movements, and
paying no attention to ' the Mexican
threats of attack. It is not believed
that the Mexicans will really make
any attack upon the American forces.
The cruiser San Diego, with Admiral
Wlnslowvln command; left at midnight
for Guaymas. The Chattanooga sailed
at the same time for Acapulso and the
Denver for Salina Cruz.
CAPTAIN OF ENGINEER
COMPANY READY TO GO
Capt. Charles R. Forbes, 1st Sepa
rate Company, Engineers, National
Guard of Hawaii, says that his com
pany Is ready and willing to a man to
go to Mexico If needed there by thi
federal government
Forbes' company had a meeting last
night at which the members were put
through a stiff drill with surveying
Instruments, a part of the regular
school work which will be given to the
company. Actual work was given In
demonstrations by competent engi
neers. ' The company consists of 65
men.
STARVING MEXICANS
DRIVEN ACROSS LINE
EL PASO, Texas, June 20. A thous
and half-starved. persons have arrived
from Chihuahua, entering the United
States in search of work. They had
been driven out of Juarez. In violation
of the orders of Gen. Obregon, it. Is
thought the Mexican olficials ejected
them, believing this to be a necessary
course because of the shortage of food
in Juarez.
LADY PAGET THANKS
BULGARIAN OFFICIALS
SOFIA. June 20. The latest num
ber of the official bulletin of the Bul
garian Red Cross published a state
ment signed by Lady Paget, who, with
fifty-two members of her hospital mis
sion, fell into the hands of the Bui
gars with the capture of Uskub, ex
pressing the warmest gratitude for- the
courteous treatment the mission and
its head have received since the re
moval of the mission from Serbia. '
i -
With a f our-horse-power engine a
motor-driven plow of English inven
tion cuts a six-inch furrow at a speed
exceeding three miles an hour. ;
FOR PRINGEVILLE
aim
MILITIA EKPECTED TO DE ON
fM 'TONIGHT; U. S.EWUSES
demand to mmm TROOPS
American Note Flatly Rejecting Csroza's Skr.d l!::.f : j
to MassEior Arrecon-3 r'ests TrevinD s Tr.n::ts
U. S. liavy Vessels Sail, PresuniEbry For Dxica Fcrts
: .;':" '' "'v;VM;'':-'":--:' bulletin. v'; :-- ,;;.v -
- (AtMttatd Tt Servif by Vjeral Wirtltat) '
BROWNSVILLE, Texas, June 20. Passengers arriving from Ma tamo-,
raa late this afternoon report a rumor in Monterey that party of Ameri
cans at Cerralvo have been massacred. As far at Is known. here, the only
American residing at Cerralvo la James Hughes. .
WASHINGTON, D. C, June 2a The refusal of the United States to
withdraw the American troops from Mexico has brought the-nations to the
verge cf war, and preparations are being continued to meet the emergency.
y The question of war or peace ncAw rests with Carranza for answer.
The opinion prevailed at a cabinet meeting today that the chancts are
overwhelmingly for war. There la hopi that Carranza .will be impressed
with the military preparations mad by the United States, but there ar no
indications that Carrahza's intentions ar peaceful, and the military moves
are now planned in the belie! that hostilities are liable to begin at any m-
DOUGLAS, Arizona, June 20. Refugees arriving today declare that
the American flag over a hotel In Cananea, Mexico, housing the office of th
American consul, W. A. Julian, waa the target for hundreds of Mexican bul
let on Saturday during an anti-American demonstration.. Bullets hit the
hotel, endangering the guests, who were largely Americana. Tht mob shouted
maledictions at th "gringoea" but failed In attempts to shoot away the flag
pole, and the riddled American colors were still flying when the refugees
fled. ' w; . '
. r ; . . - . . ..." -. " . - r "
EL P,ASO, Texas, June 20 Ah admission that itvat a band of Carran
za soldi rs and not an outlaw band which fired on the American troops rttlr
ing near Matamoraa last Saturday has been received by th Mexiem consu
late hre from H. Abreu, director of th Mexican consular ssrvki.
,.,-. BROWN WOOD,' Texas, "Jun Zl. Gercnln Lrmo,"a Mtx::an suipectsa '
of an assault with a knif upon f.tr3.V
waa found today by a possa and immediately sh:t if death.
Mtia Regiments
and
Rolling
South'ard
(Av.iate4 Pr Benin by Federal Wireleu) ' ' '
: vWASHINOTOX, D. C, June 20. Following the request of Ocn."
Funston for national guard regiments in active duty on the border,
the division of militia affairs, war department, is today telegraphing
to the stated asking for definite information as to which forces in
these states are ready to move at once. ; - ' r': " ; '
Ak soon as this information is secured, it is expected that the
war department, will issue orders that the available 'regiments en
train and they will be rolling toward the border perhaps tonight. '
r.i: -:.:.r; : . ; ?; - . :
SAN AKTOXIO, Tex., June 20. So threatening is the Mexican
situation that Gen. Funston is preparing to throw all available Am
erican regulars across the border. : ;
He telegraphed today a request to the war depariment.to send
him as soon as possible a large part of the national guardsmen who
are being mobilized on the president's call. . - ' '
He plans a close and effective patrol, made up largely, if not
almost entirely of militia, from Brownsville, Texas, along the long
border-line out to the Pacific Ocean. , . ' v
SAN DIEGO, CaU June 20. Admiral Cameron McB. Wjnslow,
commander-in-chief of the Pacific fleet, i aboard his flagship.othe
San Diego, sailed from this port today, presumably either ..for Guay
mas or Mazatlan. ' - . . ;-
The .destroyers llull, Truxton and - Hopkins followed the San
Diego closely.
BROWNSVILLE, Tex.t June 20. This town was stirred to
anger and excitement today when it became known that the body
of William Browne, brother of Mayor Albert Browne, had been found
in the Rio Grande river. The body was on the Mexican shore, ten
miles south of Matamoras. It 'is believed that the mayor's brother
was murdered. f
Uncle Sain Tells Carranza flatly
U. S. Troops Will Stay In Mexico
(AtMciated Pre Serrie by Federal Wirlea
WASHINGTON, I). C, June 20. Uncle Sara answers an emphatic
"No!" to the demands of the de facto government of Mexico that
the IT. S. troops be .withdrawn from Mexican soil. ; "
The American note, flatly rejecting the demands of Carranza
and his cabinet for a withdrawal of the troops, was handed to Dr.
Eliseo Arredondo, the Mexican ambassador, today. ' It rebukes the
Mexican government plainly for the discourteous tone and temper .
of its last official communication. ; ' ; -
The note reviews the invasions of the -United States territory, '
the fact that the killing of American citizens have been borne with
patience and forbearing. It declares that the United States is re
luctant to conclude that despite the activities of the Villistas and; their
crimes, Carranza does not intend or does not desire their capture, 1
annihilation or dispersal by American or Mexican troops.
The note goes on to recite the cases wherein the Carranza officials
and commanders showed indifference and lack of cooperation with
the Americans, though the Carranzistas knew the whereabouts and
close proximity of the bandits. ; .' ; '- ' .:v ; ;
, The note, which is' sharp in tone, concludes with the statement
that if the de facto government continues to ignore its obligations.
i and if it begins to carry out the
appeal to arms against the Americans, ; the 1 gravest consequence
will follow.; ,. '.. : ' ; -
After a cabinet-meeting today, Secretary .of State Lansing said
that nothing new. has developed and that the, situation :i ur?hin?d,
so far as the state department is concerned. .V , '
Flag PacMu
m.: Kuykeniall while sh v. 21 altcp,
May . B2 0a Trab
By ionijiii
threat to defend its territory by an
