IWWP
hl!ijwi w 0vf pvtgi
NIGHT.
EXTRA
VOL. H.-370. 240
'FIN.ANCIAL EDITION
" " - .
PJIILADMLPJUA, TUESDAY, JUXE
BATTERY B, OF CAMDEN; PREPARES TO LEAVE FOR CAMP AT SEA GIRT
.
20, )10.
in r iti i
Coi-rtimirT, loin, ni tur ft ntto I.ppokb CoMpan.
'vThe upper picture shows members
of the battery gruuiieu uuuiUU mo
'armory door at 0th street and
Wright avenue todny in response
"to orders from Adjt. Gen. Sadler,
of the New Jersey Natlonnl Gunrd.
Below are, from left to right,
ihree of the battery officcis in the
persons of 1st Lieut. John It.
Dlttes, Jr., of Wcstville, and 2d
Lleuts. Charles V. Dickinson and
John II. Hicks, both of Camden.
The battery is now at its full war
'strength, 171 men. Entrainment
of guns and baggage was mauc.tnts
afternoon. The battery includes
four modern 3-inch field guns.
fW I lglfctr?tKTCMrT-ri--.----Tr,--.., , , ,, Lll,,, ' ' iii ii. i.
Sfe"" Sill ibrri rr IWHHBBIMIR sss
WSaSJESBSz r. & mm mk - ciBlk EmBHHHhHhI ra
etw.WfsMffgSSmfiWsS. .wd2iF.lWB5Ma?5s $MWftwm$7"it.W.W Wsm?2ii
1 1 " of guns and baggage was madc.thia riJmWMSBXMhjJt ujMw Wv " "i xfllll
J, afternoon, xno oaitery inciucica T . ' 'T I.TTl 1 J T 7 J L I L T L J iPTMIETTnT f. .rT. I 3 .Jilt J LlL." '1 J W '" j , WelZ
four modern 3-inch field guns. IMMMMlmFW Mm&MM 'waPffiwffwKSF
V" M $H Mk M - jSP":flS $2,660,071 War Munitions
mmm&Mm ms: l. . "'Jb sirAsi.
MiW Wrr.WW .BKtsra
EMMniriHiHe
k .jw 11I -N3x- nCor ( A
fill ' - U Qgffw M-- s . I "
I
mu. - i -van iso. a Ji w Jl iJXS.jl ifcJ
TO CAKRANZA,
QUICK NEWS
WASHING'N.. 1
ATHLETICS.. 0
PHILLIES l!"G. 301002100 7
BROOKLYN ... 000 J 00000 4
nixcy ami Killofdr Dell ftittl Moyera.
11 0
7 3
PHILLIES 2l a.
BROOKLYN...
PHIIS BEAT DODGERS AGAIft
WASIIINnTOM Ti, on a-
cording to statistics of the 'Depart
ment oi commerce obtained here,
the value of exportations of cx-
tlloslVCS to Mpxirn frnm Tnli. 101 K
to Jlay, 1910, apRrcgatcs $2,000,071.
The exportations of firearms for the
same period amounts to $500,107.
The exports follow:
Cartridges $1,900,170
Dynamite -120,111
Gunpowder 119,771
All uther explosives.. 147.719
The rcpoits show that the largest
amounts of explosives were shipped
to Mexico during the month of Janu
ary, with the exception of cartridges,
which were shipped in the largest
quantities during March.
PHILLIES r h o
Pancroft.sa i j 5
Michoff,2b 1 2 1
Slock, 3b 0 1 0
Cravatli, rf 1 1 0
Wliittcd.lf z 2 1
Ludoi us, 1 b 0 2 7
I'askcrt, cf 1
n 0
2 0
0
0
0
0
0
Killcfcr, c.
Rixcy, p..
1 S
1 8 1
0 0 3
0 0
0
BROOKLYN
Myers, cf
Daubcrt, lb 0
Johnston, rf 0
Wheat, If 0
Mowrey, 3b 0
Cutsbaw, 2b l
O'Mara.ss 0
Meyers, c 1
Dell.p 0
McCarty 1
Cheney, p " . . , 0
Matqiiird, p 0
r h o
1 1 3
7
1
3
0
1
0
9
0
0
0
a e
0 0
0 0
0
1
0
0
0
1
1
0
0
2 .0
1 0
tJBAVE
WILSON'S NOTE
IF D. S. TROOPS AM ATTACKED
Curt Reply to Demand for Withdrawal
oi American Forces Refuses to
Yield and Expresses Surprise
. Over Request
TOWN THREATENED
BY. ON-COMING CAHRANZISTA
READY TO STRIKE
Totals.
7 11 'Z7 12 I)
To tills.
1 7 27 12 3
BANDITS UNHAMPERED, UNPUNISHED,
PRESIDENT WILSON TELLS MEXICANS
"gravest consequences" if ho attacks
Threatens Carranza with the
tVlIUGFlMTl trnnno -nrwir Sn TVr..i
.. vuwfU huh 111 UlCAltU.
Ch Cnrrariza's "discourteous tone and temper" in his last note,
hie Americans. andits havc gono ""hampered and unpunished in attack
Recites scores of instances of banditry.
. Ees th?t "V5 Carranza regime had been indifferent to atrocities nml
even encouraged and aided some of the leaders of these atrocities and
and other's?3 Carranza "d not take proper steps to apprehend Villa
WASHINGTON, June 20. President Wllsnn'n r,nn nM., ... -.
tnuaa demand for tho withdrawal of American troops from Mexico was made
r,r--.. unmy, xno noto BayB. y
'The Senretnfv et cn .- i- r. x . . .
: Government oi ? Jiexico; "r ot sn Heiatlons of tl.o de facto
"Department of State,
"Slr-I hnv. - 'Waahlnirton. June 20, 1016.
rlSlR . ' mmunicuion, wmen waH uollvcred to mo on May 22
l"ScoUnr'nB8tri,,c(t,on3 C fe Chief Executive of the do torto Governmelu o
LbJuThu ,? uCt 0.1 th9enco of Ameiican troops in Mexican territory,
fon, of fact ,,7" r: " l ?U,.n.0t' "".maklns answer to the allesa.
Prtse and m mi "-'tjiiB ,tucneu oy your uovcrnment. express tho sur
tud temJr hT .l"lVe been eauscl tl,ta awrament by tho discourteous tone
-.t -r w v4lj iiuil rninmiininniinH nw 1. n ,in -. A r . . - .
f "Tha n ,....miiViiuuii ui mo no imig uuvernment or .leMco.
IlncreaslnT, ' ,ne u,lltea stntcs lms v,ewed wltn ''eep concern and
IWhed atiaT''l,tment thC P'"OK,eSS f th '-volution In .Mexico. Continuous
r .uuuenea and disorders liav.. m,i,in,i i.u .,...., i.- .,.. ... ,. .
plfPublle hno h. . .1. ..w0.. . unco yt-rtia mu .Mexican
Been aacrifl . " W,th ClV" st,lfe: th0 ,,vc" of Amerlranii and other aliens have
Peen dwtwT "1' ""i'rues aoveioped by American capital and enterprise have
lit iii7h k ?k rende,"ed nonproductive; bandits have been permitted to toam
punl,hmem l terrMoT wntlBUou to the United States and to seize, without
hmZ L , .T' effectlve ftt,emI" t punishment, tho property ofAmerlcmfs.
PUriltn . c,tlzans t he United States who ventured to remain in Mexican
rytniurv or to return n,o- . . . .,..,. ,. ... . ...
IKWes hnrho V rui.-i uicir iiiiciesiH nave ueen tahen. and In some
Brought to jTuce ""t'he murdders have, neither bShn apprehended nor
bra den?" hi dlmcult t0 flnd '" the annals of the Wstory oN Mexlcocondltions
EftiMlviar" wnicn nave existeu there uuring these tecent years
"ATnnnin.v awiptj AO.nrrimv .
i 4ThB tlnta fMHl.l.. ....
Botrfen Y ,m' Bds " would Da tedious to lecount Instance after Instance,
Kiiee F outraBe' atrocity after atrocity." It does mention, however, specific
Pftlirt-,e!8!!S,.0f attacks n Brownsville. Redhouse Ferry. I'rogrcso postofflce and Las
P'In'th R during last September," aro mentioned briefly.
Irarilsta in?6 attackst" the note continues, "Carranzista udlierents and even Car-
IWders -h t00k'part ln the lootlnK. burniim and killing. Not only were these
Perpetrat 1 ""-" " "iieaa oruiamy, out unciviuzeu ncis or mutilation were
Voener 1 m wtW,th8tand,nB representations to General Carranza and the promise
fellowlne Na"arete to prevent attacks along the International boundary, In tha
Wons kin0Ilth 0t 0clob6r P Passenger train was wiecked by bandits and several
tfiUted s . SCVen mlles nqrth of Brownsville, und an attack was made upon
Sde nf ,!eVr0pa at the -ame pIaco severu-1 da's ,nter- sl,,co these attacks
?il a 7 a banaits- well known both to Mexican civil und military authorities, us
ftovm, ""'E',Lan omcois, have ben en Joy Ine with impunity the liberty of tho
aft 5 or northern MBvi,.
f "So far ha tv,o .;,:!
Yaqui Indians Join Mexicans in Move
Against Del Rio 60,000 Soldiers
Massed in Chihuahua Prepared
to Meet Attack
BROWNSVILLE, Tex., June 20 Fugitives arriving at Mata-
moras reported tnat all the Americans at Cerralvo mine in Nucvo
Leon had been murdered by Mexicans. The report is unconfirmed.
EAGLE PASS. Tex.. June 20 Ant.ifnrmVn rnni;... ., cu:n
is so intense that several Americans and Englishmen were forced
to take refuge in the British consulate Sunday night, according to
reports received here. The demonstration i occurred shortly after
Consul Silliman received his passports and left for the border.
SAN ANTONIO, Tex., June 20. General Funston announced
today that the quartermaster's department at Fort Sam Houston
had been ordered by the War Department to purchase 50,000 horses
iiiui mutes lor rne national uuartl.
JAMAICA RACING RESULTS
First incc, Mniilcn 2-yenr-oUls, 5 furlongs Sky, 112, Kcogli. 0 to
1, 2 to 1 niul 4 to 5, won; rriendless, 115, B.wies, 7 to 2, G to S au-J
3 to 5, second; Meliorn, 112, Gainer, 11 lo 5, 4 to 5 niul 1 to 3, thlul
Time, 1:02.
-
J"
OTTAWA RACING RESULTS
Fiist inco, 3-ycar-oltlsn ml up,sel ling, G furlongs Jabot, 112, J.
Bell, $D.G0, $3.80 and 93.40, won; Viley, 10D. 15. Kopplcman, $l.ao
and $3 50, second; Will Cash, 103, 0. Mai tin, $4.00, third. Time, 1:21 1-0.
U-BOAT SINKS FRENCH SHIP; NINE MISSING
HAVnil. June ,1'0. The French steamship Saint Jacques. 2450 tuns, has been
sunk by a German subnmiine. .Nino members of tho ciuw are mlsslnK. Saint
Jacques hailed fiom this poit.
LORD HARDINGE IS FOREIGN UNDER SECRETARY '
LONDON. Juno 20. Lord Hnidlngtt today assumed Ills duties us L'udersecrejarv
of State for Foreign Affairs. IIo succeeded Arthur Henderson.
Movement of Mexican military forces today threatened the Texas town of
Del Rio, it being reported that a force of 1500 do facto soldiers, strengthened bv
a band of Yaqui Indians, was within less than a day's march of that position
Reinforcements were dispatched at once by Genernl Funston.
Carranzista troops numbering 00,000 are entrenched in' Chihuahua State
ready to back up their First Chief's latest defiance to tho United States namely
that if another American trooper crosses tho border it will be a si'cnal for
w... ...o yum mu iiu.t move up 10 ine nortnern Republic
On the other hand, President Wilson's noto refusing Carranza's demand that
the American expedition be withdrawn at once was sent to the do facto chlnf
77' ."'" !.r ",v '""" ,,,ove "P l0 carranza. (it is a belligerent Alphonse
Gaston situation.) ....
The President's reply was a blunt, stinging answer to Carranza's insolence
stat ng plainly-that any attempt to attack the American forces now in Mexico
would lead to "the gravest consequences." Tho United States positively refuses
to budge an inch. . "
It is certain that if another bandit band crosses into tho United States
American troops will pursue, even across the border. This will nrecinltato
exactly the situation that Carranza has given every evidence of seeking, throw
ing the blamo for invasion and attneft upon tho United States
Warships have been rushed to Mexican waters preparatory to blockading
the ports and CUtt ncr off Carranza's sunnllns. "iug
Recruiting for the navy was decided upon to meet any possible emergency
SToIy beatd!1 "" PreSident'S " " ' '
.r thSrUnnSedtaateasnd YUCatan' inde"e"de"avo declared a state of
mg toSSSJSC!? support America's policy in Mexico-accord-
MEXICAN TROOPS' AND YAQUI FORCE
THREATEN DEL RIO, TOWN IN TEXAS
af u . ' ' v.tw.
t (om fh the ,ndlfferenc "t the de facto Government to these atrocities gone
'their r "" uuers. an I an advUad, have recolvea not only the protection
r upvernraent. but encouragement and aid as well."
DHPftBDATIONS BY VILLA AND HIS WEN.
Secretary T.ni. ...... . . .. . .
Predati '" """' iaKj up. m consiuaraDie aeiau, in-more notorious
Kse toai asalnst Al"erMnjB in Mexico and on American bordw towns. Among
r ""nces. a of whtclj heretofore have been told of In detail, press accounts
Continued ao fue SU. Cvliuun On
SAN AN1DNIO. Tex.. Jun SO. A bat
tallon of the 3d United States Caalry
reached Del It(o today, from Kugle I'awi, to
protect the town from 1500 CarrltuUta
soldiers and a few Yaqu Indians that are
leportyKl to bft marching In that direction.
According to Information reaclilns llajor
General Funstoc. the Mexican are only 10
miles from Del Ilia The pel JHo situation
s resurded as very grave. The citizens
are clamoring for more protection
Colonel Sibley's comrastid thera is of fair
strungth. and with tha reinforcements he
should be able to defend th cllj from the
Miuns an Yaquls la case they attack
aixordtng to Funston, (
1
The presence of the VaquU so n,ar the
bordsr hi taken JU oonflrmatlun of the re
cent report that the fMernor of Coahyila
had ssnt a band of Indians north to attack
Dl Wo.-
Apparently, the Indians formd a Junction
with a Mexican force, and the two bodies
are inarching under one command The
force was last reported about forty miles
south of J3J Wo. and should arrive opposite
that city teday. if the reports brought here
ara true.
General Henry a. Greene, commanding
that section of the border patrol lying at
Continued pu fas T. Column One
SMYRNA WRECKED BY MUTINEERS AND SHELLS
HO.MC, .lune SO Tho Turkish i-lty of Smrna. on the const of Aslu Minor, has
..i.-1-ii iir.,- mwnj.Mi ny n mutiny or tlie tjarrlwon and by the shells of -Uled war
ships, according to travelers leachltiR Itnlj todn.. It s nlso repotted that -ondi-tlons
nro critical In t'onstntitinople, tho pliiKiie halng broken out In tho barracks.
CABINET REPORTED SPLIT ON IRISH QUESTION
IONDOX. Juno I'O Thoio wnrn nitistpnt rrnmitu iif fll1 ..,,. ,ii.,it i .
- ...... oi'""" ' in mu diviPiiu in inn
Cabinet over tho Irish question when I'urliamcnt reconvened today. That high
feeling still exists In 1 1 eland, especially over tho cNecutlon of tho revolutionary
leaders, is shown by tho Sinn Keln demonstrations in Dublin.
DULUTH, MINN., VOTES OUT SALOONS
Dt'LL'TH, Minn., June 20. L'nollielal returns today from yesterday's election
hhow that Duluth oted to oust tho baloons by n mujoilty estimated at nrouml 500.
The vote was unusuully heavy.
ITALY PERMITS WIVES OF U. S. CITIZENS TO DEPART
IJOMD, June 20. The Italian Uovernment has decided to permit vivos of Italians
who huo become natiiiallzed Americans and have not teturned to Italy for military
service to rejoin their husbr.nds In Amerlcn. Hetetofoie this bad been foibidden.
U. S. EXPORTS EXCEED IMPORTS BY $3,000,000,000
WASHINGTON, June 20. Kxports from the United States for Kurope for the
first 20 months of tho wnr reached a total value of $S,OSo,ooo,000, according to a
table comnleted today bv tho Huron m nf I.'nroftrn nm rtnmnctt r.
- - ' - -"--.. .. viwoni. v uMiiiiciLc imports
during the same peilod amounted to $380,000,000. During ordinary times exports
to Europe exceed tho Imports two to one.
EIGHT ITALIAN VESSELS SENT TO BOTTOM
TOULON. Trance. June 20. The Italian steamship I-eprovedlta has been sunk
In the Mediterranean by twu Austrian submarines. The crew was brought here.
LONDON. June 20. The Italian steamships Hondine and Tavolara and the paying
vessels Fiancesco I'adre. Br.. Antonla V. Annettn and Adelia lune been sunk, accord
ing to dispatches to Lloyd's.
PANAMA CROSSED IN AUTO FOR FIRST TIME
PANAMA, June 20 Samuel firler. superintendent of motorcars at the Panama
Canal, has accomplished for the-first time the fat of driving an automobile across
the Isthmus. Owing to the lack of roads, 23 of tha 17 mllW distance was run uvsr
railroad ties. The actual running time ws 5 hours 10 minutes. M. Hodgs a
Government chauffeur, in the following car, was kllld when his machine tumbled
"I HAVE LOST A TRUE FRIEND," SAYS KAISER
LONDON, June 20. In r telegram of eondolonc from main headquarters to
L'eutenant Geneial Count Helmuth von Jloltke'ji widow, an Aawtrdam snort bays
Emperor William said: "Words fall me to give full xpresslon to my feelings The
Fatherland will not forget Mp ;jreat services As long as I live I shall gratefully
remember what this uprlgrt wise man Vith a character of gold ami a warm
Iryal heart, was to me and ny army I have lost a true friend ln him."
NIGHT
EXTRA
PRICE OXE CENT
TATE GUARD
OFF TO CAMP
ON SATURDAY
General Price and Staff Will
Leave Thursday for
Mt. Gretna
AID FOR MEN'S FAMILIES
Mayor Smith Pinna Public Fund
to Help Those Left
Behind
What Each Guardsman
Is Obliged to Carry
When the Pennsylvania Guards
men start for Mt. Grctnti each en
lisUcl man will carry:
One olive drab uniform (known
to the mm as "O. B.").
One cun and bayonet.
One hundred rounds ammunition.
One woolen shirt.
One pair canvas leggings.
One pair tan shoes.
One web belt.
One blnnkct.
Ono nnnclin.
One-half shelter tent, with
and ptjrs.
One havt rsnrk . Vinldin.
... - , w...,b fnitJ)
lllir. fork .nnnnn. nn nnA ft.f.nt.J
, . - 7 j- -.., ...j. ..in, III db .1111
packet. The entire equipment weighs
10 pounds.
poles
pans
J3rlg,idler Oencral William G. Price, Jr.,
commiinclInK the . 1st Brigade, National
Gu.ud of Pennsyhanla. will leaic for Camp
BiumlMUgh, .Mount lirtlna, early on Thurs
day. acooHllng to inesent plans AVith hlra
will gu the members of tho brigade staff.
Tlie iiiIouh icglments und other units of
tho brigade will not lcae their armories
before Saturdaj. and the formnl opening
of tho camp hao been bet for Monday, by
which time nil of PennsyU aula's 9500
iiuot.i of guarilbtnen called bjthe Govern
ment will be under canvas.
General Price, together with Brigadier
General Albert J. Logan, of the Second
Brigade, and Brigadier General C T.
O'Neill, of tho Fourth Brigade, will reach
Mt. Gretna well In advance of their com
mands with a lew of taking personal
charge of the prpparatlons for receiving tha
troops on their arrial.
Sites for tho arious units have been
located and Lieutenant' Colonel L. V.
IlaiiLCli. Deputy DIUslon Quartermasterria
making special effort to Incroaso his work
ing force on the field to hae everything
In ic.idlnCHS when the flrst troops arrivo
on Saturday.
According to present arrangements the
dlffeicnt leglmcnts will send no advance
details to erect tents, but this duty will be
performed by the men themselves on reach
ing camp.
PLANS SUPPOP.T FUND
.Mayor Smith announced this afternoon
that he hnd under consideration n project
to- provide for the dependent families of
anv local cuardsmnn cnlled tn tha frnnt.
This proposition, the Mayor said, was ths
outcome of confeicnces he had held with
rromlnent business men and had their
hearty suppoit.
"I am nrianglng plans," said the Mayor,
"to call a public meeting with the object
of providing a popular fund to be applied
to the support of the dependent families of
mien men as are tailed Into the service of
the Go eminent and would otherwise ba
unprovided for. I discussed this subject
infoimnlly with Kills Glmbel and other mer
chants, and they nre In hearty accord with
my Ideas.
"1 liellee that our soldiers will feel better
satisfied If they go away knowing that their
families will h cared for in their absence.
Again, I think such a fund would encourage
enlistments and hao a good general effect
nH shotting appreciation of our citizens to
tho services of our guardsmen
"I hae asked General Price, commander
of tho 1st Brigade, to furnish me with a
list of all the men in the arlous regiments
who would leaa their families In need, or
who have dependents.
"I am also halng an ordinance prepared
for piesentation to Councils which will pro
llo leao of absence with pay to all city
nmployes who aio in tho National Guard,
und I will ask Councils for 'an appropriation
to the fund "
Commanders of the local regiments of ths
National Guard of Pennsylvania do not el.
pect difficulty In lecrultlng their commands
up to the enrollment requirements of tha
United States Army regulations. The rush
Cimttnurd en I'acc Ml. Column ThrM
THEWEATHER
Fair maidenii. who in years past wera
thrilled by loe songs which told of the
sad parting of the boy In blue with his
sweetheart at the garden gate, will now
have opportunity to enact the role of tha
heroine. Unfortunately there will be many
riunnnnaH nlnnA1 fti thfl hllil anil nt Ami
t$f eneb'enients pontponeU becauw of th
nroualni' AmrnCAmnnt with tht nr'asan
) w .ii..j 'ao"- -- .. a ksvu
wouid-bt) dictator tn Mexico.
lint it in 4itHt iiudlili. Ihnl ,..s ...111 ..
celvo wold that his message inferring evlo
tlon was misunderstood It Is known that
the temperature In MexU.o is much higher
than it is here
some men do, all sorts of foolish things
when they are affected by the heat
FORECAST
For Philadtlphm and vioinityFair
tonight and probably Wednesday; not
much change in temperature; light
windf, mostly northwest.
LOST AND FOUND
For UtUtr Lot and touiiil Ad I'm e t
COLL1B DOO Lot. ox trad frBnj 3Wb usi
CkUM. SiuUy. Scotcb Mill, browtt. 1tS
Ukck and whU msrslniM. icsuli. anwt ta
saaw ot lul Rwr U rturn4 ta ZS04
Cblnm
tuil lib iu rihi eUvvut Strut Haiti,
Uther UakUlca AOj oil Vut IS iMii 19 "
1
7.
