FUNSTON CALLS FOR TROOPS "SOON AS POSSIBLE"
WEATHER Fair to-nlaht and Wedntlday.
4
III otov
wfot
1 "Circulation Books Open to AIL"
PRICE ONE CENT.
Copright, 11110, by The Pre lablUhlo
Ce. (The New York World).
NEW YORK, TUESDAY, JUNE 20, 1916.
"Circulation Books Open to All."
18 PAGES
FmWML
M
EDITION
PRICE ONE CENT.
ARMY STAYS, WILSON DECLARES;
MEXICO WARNED NOT TO ATTACK
N. Y. TROOPS START FOR CAMP;
TWO COMPANIES OF THE 220
ARE FIRST TO GET UNDER WAY
RUSSIANS CHECKED
BY GERMAN FORCES
IN DRIVE AT KOVEL
Hundreds of the Guardsmen Sleep
All Night in Armories Recruit
ing Is Boosted in the Enthusiasm
Batteries Go to Field.
Twenty-four hours from the receipt of President Wilson's mobilization
order New Vork'a National Guardsmen are on the move to the encampment
at Bcrkman.
.Companies B and D of the- Twenty-second Corps of Engineers left their
armory at Fort Washington Avenue and One Hundred and Sixty-eighth
Street to-lay to proceed to Pccksklll and thence to the mobilization crounda
at Camp Whitman. Thoy will be followed to-morrow morning by the Blxty-
nlnU: Regiment and the six other companies of engineers, and tho work of
preparing tho camp for occupancy by 16,000 guardsmen from all over the
State will be put under way.
Company P of th engineers
niarchd out of the armory at 1.15
o'clock IhLs afternoon and went
through a short drill ponding the ar
rival of Company B which appeared
shortly afteYwnrd. Both bodies then
took the subway to the Grand Cen
tral Station and entrained on thro
coaches for Pecksklll. The train to
t'hlch their special cars were at
. ached is the one leaving the Grand
Central iit 2.03 o'clock.
CARDINAL WILL REVIEW THE
69TH ON WAY.
Tho Sl.xtj -ninth Itcglment of Infan
try, about ono thousand .strong. In
cluding twelve companies, a machine
gun corps nml ho.spltal corps, will
march from tho armory at Lexington
Avenue and Twenty-sixth Street, to
morrow morning at 8.30 o'clock, and
will bo reviowed In front of St. Pat
rick's. Cathedral, Fifty-second Struct
una Fifth Avemie, at 8.45 o'clock by
Cardinal Parley. It will then proceed
to Fifty-seventh Htroot and then west
to Tenth Avenue, where It will en
train In the Now York Central yards.
Major Oen. O'Hyan, commander of
the Stat troops, mado a visit to tho
olty this afternoon for n consulta
tion with Col, Stcrnberger, Chief
Quartermaster, and Col. Btotesbury,
Adjutant General at Division Head
quarters In the Municipal Building.
Ills chief object was to facilitate the
hiring of motor trucks for the mow.
ment of regimental equipments needed
In camp and to learn more In detail
the condition of tho units as to re
cruiting and preparedness to go into
camp.
Ho said that Col. Cornelius Vnnder
bllt, inspector on his stuff, would to
night Inspect the Sixty-ninth Hegl
ment, which la to leave for camp at
daybreak to-morrow.
Col. Sternbergor made several ap
pointment this afternoon for the pur
pose of completing his staff. Ho
picked his men from tho active and
reserve lists and now has a very com
petent corps of assistants
The first appointment was that of
Col. Arthur F. Towiusend, retired,
who, up to three months ago, held tho
position now filled by Col. Stem
berger. Col. Townscnd was sworn in
aa lieutenant colonel. Tho tithcr ap
pointees are Cnpt. Hugo Jauckel, re
tired, sworn In as captain; Lieut.
Carl Breed, w-ho served as an uldn
In the third brigade at Albany, sworn
tn as major; First Sergt. Joseph W.
Farroll, who was yesterday promoted
captain, sworn In us aide, and Dr.
Henry Kottner aworn in as vet
erinarian. Every armory In Greater New Tork
RAETANZER'S
SISTER DECLARES
JAMES
IS OLIVER
"Thai's the Man," She Cries
as the Attorney Enters Court
at Perjury Trial.
TELLS OF HIS VISITS.
Berlin Says Czar's Troops
Have Suffered Big Losses
Along; the Styr.
HKRI.TN, Juno 20. Hepulsn of
strong Russian attacks southeast of
I.oglshln, north of the Prlpet marshes,
was reported by the War Offlco this
afternoon. The Slavs suffered heavy
losses. Othor Russian attacks along
the River Styr arid near Kolkl wero
unsuccessful.
On tho northern end of th Russian
battle front German troops attacked
successfully south of Smorgon In the
region of Tanoczyn, capturing 1U
Russians, four machine guns and four
inlno-throwcrs,
"o regions of Kovcl, I.utz,
Turlja and Klssollu enemy resistance
broke down under German attacks,
South of Turlja a Russian attack was
repulsed.
((Continued on Third Page.)
80,000 AUSTRIANS
CUT OFF IN FLIGHT
FROM CZERNO WITZ.
PKTROGRAD. June 20. Russian
troops havo occupied the village of
Zadova. Stroglnotz and -Rllboka. the
War Ofllce announced to-night.
PETROARAD, June 20. Klghty
thousand Austrian troops, retreating
from tho region of Czcrnnwlu, have
been cornered In Bukowlna by the
lightning drive uf th'i Russian left
wing.
Tho Russlnns aro prosslng the pur.
suit with tho utmost vigor. A lurge
part of tho Austrian force In all
probability will bo cut off and stir
roundod. The others fnco tho alterna
tive of retreating through tho Car
pathian putae, abandoning their
guns, or crossing Into Rumania.
Oen. Pflanror, commanding the
(Continued on Second Page.)
Defense Suffers Blow When
Court Bars Testimony
of a Conspiracy.
The first of the defense's promised
! sensations In tho trial of Rue Tanzer
for perjury materialized this after
noon when Dora Tanzer, sister of the
defondant, positively Identified James
W. Osborne aa the man who courted
Rao and encompassed her downfall.
Mr. OsbdrnW rushed befora ITnttM
i States District Judge Wolverton from
, the Appellate. Division of tho Supreme
Court. As the doors closrd upon him
Attorney David siado asked Dora if
ho was tho frequent called at tho
Tanzer home In 10H.
"Yea, he s the man that's him,"
said tho witness, rising from the
chair. "Ho is tho man who mlnn.1
! my Ulster's llfel"
! Mr. Osborne glared at tho witness
and hurried out of the courtroom.
The witness declared Mr. Osborne
. began calling on Rae at tho Tanzer
home in the Bronx on Saturday, Oct
17, 1914.
"When my sister came upstairs,"
Miss Tanzer testified, "she told me
some one was downstairs. I Innbn.i
I and saw Mr. Osborne standing down
j below."
Three nights in succession, Miss
Tanzer declared. Mr. Oslnirne called
at tho house. The.se visits, she said,
luniuiurn unm .ovn:nDer. On one
visit tho witness let Mr. Osborne into
tho house.
"Mr. Osborne said ho was living In
Seventy-first Street, but proposed to
move Into a four-room apartment and
take care of Hue," she said.
Tho defenso suffered a serious blow
whan Attorney Slado tried to Intro
duce evidence of a conspiracy on the
part of Mr. Osborne and United
States District Attorney Marshall to
save Osborno's fare.
"I will not permit nny evidence of
a general conspiracy to bo Intro,
duced," said Justlcn Wolverton".
Declaring that Miss Tanzer was
being "framed up," Mr. Chanler
promised tho Jury that he would
"prick the Oliver Osborne bubble"
and show that no such man ever ex.
istnd. At least two handwriting ex
perts, tho lawyer said, would testify
that the Oliver Osborne letters and
tho James Osborne letters wero writ
ton by ono and the same man. Mr
Chanter's assertion was tho first hint
as to the result of the handwriting
experts' examination.
There was much Jubilation among
tho defendant's friends as Mr. Cban
lor outlined Miss Tanzor's dofense,
This was occasioned not only by his
llery denunciation of her accusers,
but also by tho printing to-day of the
Congressional Commltteo report cen
suring United States District Attor
ney R, Snowdcn Marshall for laxity
In tho conduct of his oftlcs.
Mr. Chanler laid especial stress on
the part Harold Splolboig had played
when h was attorney for Miss Tan
zor. Tho lawyer told bow attorney Spiel-
berg persuaded Miss Tanzer to with
draw her Identification of Jnmos W
Osborne Afterwards. In snlto of n
pledRO not to do so, Splelhorg. Mr.
chanler declared, called up Mrs. James
W. Oborno and told her everything
b1 been straigbuned out.
FUNSTON SENDS HURRY CALL
FOR GUARDSMEN TO BORDER
4
SAN ANTONIO, Tex., Juno 20. Gen Funston to-day requested tho
War Department to send to hlrn, AS SOON AS POSSHILK, a largo par'
of tho National Guardsmen to bo stationed along tho Mexlcnn boundary
"from JJrownsvlllo to tho Pacific Ocean."
Oen. Funston did not mako public the exnet number requested, but
eaid he had asked for enough to provldo "adequate protection" of tho
border. Ho also withheld tho names of the stations to which tho guards
men would bo sent, although admitting tbat a considerable force would
be mobilized at San Antonio as a reserve. ,
WASHINGTON, Juno 20. Gen. Funston's request for National
Guardsmen reached tho War Department after noon and rcsultod In
telegraphic requests for Information as to when the forces of certain
States would be ablo to move. Orders for entrapment of units ready
for fccrvlce wero expected oefore night.
BRIG. GEN.
(Col'jniht Atiirrirtn
FUNSTON.
lrm , vUtlon )
U S. WILL UPHOLD RIGHTS
i ON BOTH SIDES OF BORDER,
! FIRM STATEMENT IN NOTE
i
500 HANS
IVETOAIJACK
A TEXAS TOWN
Funston Sends Aid on Report
of Menace to City
of Del Rio.
SAN ANTONIO. Tex., June 20.-Re-ports
wero received hero early to-day
that 1,600 Mexicans and Yaqul Indians
are advancing from the south to at
tack Del Rio. Tho Information was
brought by Mexicans to Col. Slbloy.
commanding at Del Rio, and transmit
ted to Gen. Funston.
Gen. Greene, commanding tho Eagle
Pass patrol district, sent a battalion
of tho Tlhrd Infantry on motor trucks
to Del Rio Immediately upon receipt
of their Information. Sibley's com
mand Is of fair strength, and with tho
rolnforcoments ho should bo ablo to
defend the city against tho Mexicans
and Yaqula In case they attack, ac
cording to Oon. Funston.
Tho nrejionee of tho Yanuls so near
the border is taken as confirmation
of recent reports that the Governor
of Coahulla had sent a band of tho
Indians north to attnek Del Itlo. Ap
parently the Indians formed a Junc
tion with a Mexican forco and the
two bodies aro marching under ono
command.
The forco was last reported about
forty miles south of Del Itlo and
should arrlvo onnoslto that city to
day If the reports brought hero ure
true.
Gen. Funston announce! that tho
quartermaster's dopartment at Fort
Ham Houston has been ordered by tho
War Dopartment to purchase. 50,000
horses und mules for th v., Monnt
Guard.
AMERICANS REPORTED
MASSACRED IN MEXICO
Members of Party Said to Have
Been Slain in Mining Town in
Utievo Leon.
BROWN8VII.L.R, Tex. Junn 20
Passengers arriving at Matnmnrns.
opposite here, to-day, reported a
rumor was current In Monterey that
n party of American ut Cerralvo, an
Isolated mining town in Nuevo l.oon,
were massacred by Moxlcans.
The body of William Browne, a
brother of Mayor Allxirt Drownn of
this city, was found In the Itlo Grande
Rlvor on the Mexican side, ten miles
south of Matamoras, to. day Browne
In said to have been last seen In
Matamoras Saturday afternoon IJe
la tUvd to Bivt ta murdtrtd.
CARRANZA
THREATENS WAR
IF MORE TROOPS ARE SENT
U.S. CONSULATE IS STONED
Special Representative Rodgers Ar
ranges for Train to Take Fugi
tives to Coast Ports Following
Night Attack.
AUiXICO CITY, June 20. "If the Unikl States wishes war thev
will have to begin it by invading our territory," Gen. Carranza told a
delegation of men and women school teachers and students who ailed
on him to-day. "We will tolerate the sending of no more punitive expe
ditions across our border even on the pretext of hunting bandits and
assassins."
The teachers called to leam if there were any new developments in
me international situation ana to otter tlieir services in event of war
Durlnir a demonstration which be-"! .
gan yesterday and lasted most of the
night stones wero hurled at tho
American Consulate.
Thn stoning occurred while Vice
Consul Rowc was In the h'ulldlui; and
only ten minutes after Special llupro
(tentative Rodgers hud lift the place.
Mr. Rudgern piotesttd against the
stoning. No American has neon mo-lested.
Utborers, employers, , clericals,
students and thousunds of women
and children participated In a ji.iru.lu
which ended beforo thn National
Palace.
11 Is estimated that butween 600
and 700 Americans fun now In
Mexico City.
An exodus among tho American col
ony has commenced, und all who are
able to do so aro leaving for Vera
Cruz or northern border points.
J. Linn Rodgers, representative, of
the Unltod States to the Car
ranra Government, called at the For
clgn Office last night for the purpose
of arranging for a special train to
leave here Wednesday to carry
Americans to coast ports.
GUARDSMEN'S INSURANCE UP.
I special war premium will be put on
jllfo innuraneo polli-le for National
. (iUHtdmivn who arc golnc to Mexico,
and only a limited amount of Insurance
will bo ficrmltttd
The premium, uecordlng to George It
Woodwnrd. thl'il vlre nresldviii of
I Metropolitan Life Insurance Company,
(in in uw uoici iiitncu mi a coiiierencu or
all tho companies In the etty and an
1 nounced tn it day or two. lie stld that
there would tn no Increase of tho pre.
I mlum on nutatandlng pollclei of mem
bere of the guxd. Limit of tho poct
to be Ututd probkbly will b 11,000.
400 IN PANIC AS A LINER
RAMS HUDSON STEAMER
l.enape of the Clyde Line Smashes
20-J-oot Mole in the C. VV.
Morse at Her Dock.
A brief panic followed thn taminlng.
at do o'clock this morning, of thn
Hudson Navigation t'ompuny's steam
er C. W. Morso by tho Clyde l.ner
IonapH while tho river steamer was
backing Into hnr dock at Pier No. 33
North River. Thn Morsn was ripped
forward by tho bow of tho I.onapo
from her main to her hurrlcaim itarU
on tho port side, making a hole about
twenty feet high and ten foot wide,
Tho fj. W. Morse had jUBt arrivod
from Albany, and her 400 masen
gers were ready to go ashore. Tho
Inapu was coming In from her trip
to southern ports und was making for
Pier No. 30, when she crashed into
tho other steamer. Tho shock created
a commotion on the Morse, a num
ber of women becoming hysterical.
The hole, wun above tho water Huff,
and the C. V, Morsn was not In the
leust danger. Capt. George It. Keller
said sho tnudu her pier without dlf.
Ileum.
Several women suffered from the
shock of tho collision to xuoh uif ex.
tent that It was somo tune before
they could be removed from tho wait.
In room.
None of tho Lenape's passengers
was hurt. Sevornl of the ship s plates
uppearod to have been started.
(For Racing Results Sea Paue Two)
(BntrlM on Pag 13.)
Reply to Demand for Withdrawal of
Troops, Handed to Ambassador To
day, Accuses Carranza of Protect
ing Villa Bandits and Declares
Lives of Citizens of the United
States Have Been Barbarously
Taken; Carranza Soldiers Have
. Participated in Looting."
"I Am Reluctant to Be Forced to the
Conclusion," Says Secretary Lan
sing, "That in Spite of Crimes, the
De Facto Government Does Not
Intend or Desire That These Out
laws Should Be Captured or Destroyed."
WASHINGTON, June 20. President Wilson firmly refuses to.
withdraw American troops from Mexico. In his note to the De Facto
Government he sternly arraigns the whole course of Gen. Carranza which
has brought the two countries to the verge of war.
War or peace rests with Gen. Carranza. The position of the UniteJ
States is pointedyl sei forth in his review of the apparent inability of Car
ranza to prevent border raids and to keep the obligation lie owes the
world by the preservation of order in his dominions.
"If." sins (ho notr, "thn de fnrto (Jorernmcnt Is pleased to
Ignore this obligation and to bvllcre (hat 'In case of u refusal to re
tiro those troops there Is no further recourse (linn to defend lis
terrllorj by an appeal to arms' the (.'orernment of the United
States would sitrelj be larking In sincerity ami friendship If It did
not frankly Impress upon the de fnrto (iinernmeiit that the etecu.
lion of UiN (limit will lend to thn grarest eoine(iierice.
"While this Government would deeply regret such a result, it cannot
recede from its settled determination to maintain its national rights and to
perform its full duty in preventing further invasions o. the territory of
the United States and in removing the peril which Americans alomr Iha
international boundary have borne so long with patience and forbearance."
no It; HANDED TO MEXICAN AMBASSADOR.
The note was handed early to-day to Bllseo Arredondo, the Mexican
Ambassador Designate here, for transmission to Mexico Citv. Conies
were furnished to all the foreign Embassies and Lentions and a summarv
cabled to Special Agent Rodgers at the Mexican capital for his information.
mreuonao a snort time later carcclled his engagement to see Secre
tary Lansing at 2.30. No reason for his action was ohmlnahu si th
State Department.
In addition In refusing to withdraw the frnnnc nnit n.,Hl..
that execution of the threat to attack them Mill be followed by the
grinest ronseimeiices, the note series notice that as long as the
farraiua forces cuiiUiiiin their present attitude uo arms or uui.
munition, or machinery for their manufacture, will lie permitted to
reach .Mexico from the I'nlted States.
Secretary Baker, busy at the War Department all morning with the
details of the mobilization of the National Guard for border defense duty,
went to the While Hou.se a lew minutes before the o.her members for
to-day's Cabinet meeting for a private conference with the President.
Fear that it would be construe as an act of u:ir. th w-ir nm,i.
Imcnt has decided to withdraw its request to Congress for the passage df
i wuuon iuinoruius me rreswen. to use tln.National Guard ia Mexico
