?-* ? ' . ?.
? i'-vwp, ? ' "'t ? "v"-?->v-"ww vv" ? f * -
-^r
i - -**? i
"Mr. 7/ggs"
7"xe Irreprcssihle Jiggs, Has His
Troubles This Morning
iEidimottfi ?"imc? - Ilisimt c
Fox's Comics
In The Times-Dispatch. Amuse
Young and Old Every Day
06th YEAR
volume: no
nl'uitkk 17t
RICHMOND, VA., TUESDAY, JUNE 20, 1916. ?FOURTEEN PAGES. ,V?;V?'Yo:u - FAIR
PRICE. TWO CENTS.
QUICK RESPONSE TO CALL FOR MILITIA
AS DANGER OF OPEN BREAK INCREASES
Instructed to Direct Muster
V ing of Virginia Volunteers
Into Federal Service.
RECRUITS ENLISTING
THROUGHOUT STATE
Mobilization Is Actively Under
Way, and Many Are Respond
ing to Call to Colors.
i SO NEW ORDERS ISSIKD
Washington Requested to Attach
Richmond Blues to Cav
alry Ann.
Brigadier-General C. C Vaughan, Jr.,
'?omrr,ander of the First Rrigade. Vir
ginia Volunteers, was yesterday desig
nated by Adjutant-General Sale to su
pervipe the preparations for the mobil
ization cimp to he established at the
State Fair Groun'ii*. General Vaughan
will he In supreme authority at tho
famp. and t*.*s 11 direi-t the mustering of
the Virginia Volunteers into the United
.-?Mes for service on the Mexican fron
tier. He was ordered 1 r. report here on
Thursday
The failure of the Wat Department
to call out the entire Virginia bri
cnde of three rfifiment.' left General
Vaughan without an active parr In the
mobilization, which will take place
under the direction of the commanders
of the two regiments that have been
called Into service As officers in
charge of the concentration catno. how
ever, General Vaughan will play a most
important part in making the Virginia
contingent ready for service at the
front
At the Adjutant-General's office an
augmented staff worked without inter
mission from early morning until far
into the night on the thousand and one
details of the mobilization. Oeneral
Sale and Captain Lo Masurier, chief
clerk, snatched three hours of sleep at
4 o'clock yesterday morr.inc ar.d went
back to their desks for a grueling day.
An endless stream of messengers
brought 200 telegrams from officers
stationed in every section of the State.
t.nd fully as many telegrams and let
ters went forwnrd from the office.
nr.CRllTS AIlK RAPID!., V
.JOl.MVr; STATF. HOItCBS
I-ate in the afternoon every com
pany of the military units that have
been ordered out had been heard from,
the commanding ofllcer of each report
ing mobilisation actively under way
and the enrollment of new recruits
proceeding briskly The promptness
c,f the response to the rail for recruits
was the outstanding feature of the
day. From the Tennessee line to the
F*a men answered the call to the
colors, and attached themselves to
local companies not yet recruited to
their full war strength.
"The situation is in every respect
satisfactory," said General Sale last
r.lfiht. "Commanding officers report re
cruiting actively under way, with the
prospect that all the companies will
be up to their full war strength with
in a day or two. All the militia < ailed
out will be ready to move to-morrow.
We will not bring the men to Rich
mond. however, until arrangements for
the camp are complete. This will
probably not be until the end of the
week"
The Administrative Board took hold
of the camp problem promptly, and
before the day was over gave the Ad
ju'ant-General assurance that tho
grounds will he supplied witli ample
temporary sanitary facilities by to
morrow. It was regarded as probable
by military men that troops will be
gin moving into Richmond on Thurs
day or Friday.
With the two regiments and the
.Mher units that have been called out.
rerruited to their full war strength,
the concentration camp at the Fair
r;rounds will have, about 3.500 officers
and men. The infantry. Signal Copps
and field hospital corps will he accorn?
modated in tho Fair Grounds inclosure.
The artillery battalion will bo quar
tered on the Sherwood tract opposite.
FOIHTII hecjimext
\ -MAY IIK CA1-LKII Ol'T
One of the early callers at the Ad
jutant-General's office was Colonel
FJdward E. Goodwin, of Norfolk, com
manding the Fourth Infantry Regiment.
Officers and men of this regiment were
disappointed at not being called out
with the rest of tho militia. Tho War
Department, however, had railed for
only two regiments of Infantry from
Virginia, and the First and Second
Regiments were designated because
their companies were better prepared
to take the field on short notice.
Acting at the urgent request of offi
cers of the Fourth Regiment, how
ever, General Sale has taken up with
the War Department the suggestion
that the requisition upon Virginia bo
enlarged to include this regiment too.
Should the Fourth Regiment be called
out there would still remain ample pro
vision, said General Sale, for Stato
purposes in new companies in process
of formation at South Roston and
other points in the State.
In the " Richmond l,ight Infantry
Jllues. disappointment was keen. This
battalion, not being part of any of
{Continued .oo-BeoondJPaao.}.
V,. . * i .. ? : ?
F. KARLK LUTZ,
Mr. Lutx ycstiTflay was elcrtwl
captain of the Richmond Signal
Corps, now mobilizing at Its armory
for servico 011 the Mexican border.
TROOPS SLEEPON ARMS
III RICHMOND ARMORIES
Many Recruits Seek Knlisttnent. hut
Only Physically Kit Are
Accepted.
Ll'TZ HKAPS SIGVAI/ t:OHPS
Klected Captain to Succeed Frank
S. Splatt?Active Drill Work of
Local Commands Will Be Started
This Morning.
Kired 10 such a pitch of enthusiasm
as is felt only in time of a grave na
tional crisis. Richmond troops, about
?i.'.ft strong, who, responding yesterday
to the mobilization orders, gathered in
their respective armories in the city,
slept last night on their arms, ready
to answer at a moment's notice the call
of the. l'resldent for active service on
the Mexican border. Quick, unhesi
tating response was mode in practically
everj* instance by men already enlisted
in the militia.
Lorn? lines of prospective recruits
waited throughout the day at the en
trances to the armories, cach man
eager for his turn in appearing before
the surgeon for physical examination.
Many were accepted and promptly en
listed in the service; others, with sor
rowful. disappointed faces were turned
away with the information that phy
sical defects made them undesirable
candidates for military service to their
I country.
No recruits were accepted by either
of the three organizations in the city
who were unable to measure up to the
I physical requirement? of the regular
I army, prescribed by the War -Depart
j merit for the surgeon's guidance. Major
| Giles B. Cook, of the First Regiment
j Hospital Corps, assisted by Captain H.
Norton Mason, of the Richmond Light
Infantry nines' Battalion, mado ex
aminations for the Richmond Grays,
and was careful that only the best ma
terial was selected.
KARI.R LI T'/, ELKCTKI)
SKi'.val coups nr.An
I Ail troops slept at thi? armories last
i nlKht. and strict military discipline was
j maintained throughout the day. The
Grays arc in command of Major J. Ful
mer Bright, the Howl zers. in the ab
sence of Captain William M. Myers, who
is expected back from Detroit on Wed
nesday morning, are commanded by
Senior First Lieutenant Edward Ci.
| Rees; and the Signal Corps Is in com
I mand of Captain Earlc Lutz, elected
j to that position yesterday to fill the
j vacancy caused by the retirement of
| Captain Frank S. Splatt. First Ser
; geant Deane Haw was at the same time
promoted to the junior first lieuten
ancy.
Captain Lutz, who has been connected
with the Virginia militia for the past
eight years, Is the sporting editor of
The Times-DlHpatch. and is well known
In newspaper and sporting as well as
military circles.
Active drill will begin this morning
in the armories and on the streets
shortly after 8 o'clock. Reveille will
i be sounded at that hour and the men
? put through a fifteen-minute exercise;
i Break fast will follow at <1:30 o'clock,
j An hour later there will be squad drill,
^Continued on Filth" fatto.)
" ' - > -'-rUUfc, - A >.
CONVICT BUT SIX
FOR SUNDAY LABOR:
Additional Arrests Are Made on
Charges of Working on
Sabbath Day.
ONLY ONE PAYS HIS FINE
i Doubtful Cases Taken Under Ad
visement by Police Jus
tice Crutchfield.
\ From nmonsc more than ninety al- ^
i leged violators of the Sunday "nlu*"
; laws, who were arr<algn*d for hearings,
I :n local court* yesterday, only six con
| victlons were secured, the court? hold
ing that fully 90 per cent of the p-r-!
i son* arrested had been en^ag^d In
work of necessity. Several cases were
' continued, but the broad interpretation
: vtlven the law by Police Justice Crutch
' field most of those familiar with
! the situation to believe all of them will
| be held to have been engaged in neces
i nary labor. Nineteen additional arrests I
were made yesterday on charges of |
Sunday violation.
In the rtefeVred class arc- both of the :
i Sunday morr.'.ns newspapers, the shop,
' forre of the Richmond. Fredericksburg j
and Potomac Railroad, the Richmond j
Transfer Company, street car eleaners,!
A. K. Reynolds, a jitney chauffeur, and
f(,ur Armenian confectioners, allied to |
have closed their business on Suturday
and to have kept open on Sunday.
Only one man paid the tine imposed
on him yesterday. He was John N. |
George, a bootblack. The five other
violators noted appeals. Th^se included
the Hotel Richmond, charged with em
! ploylnsc P. H. Finstern as a musician,
the hotel and the musician bring fined
f."> and costs each: the Southern Rail
way shops, J. J. Robertson, foreman,
i an<i S. R. Hague, a machinist In the
shops: and L. M. Taylor, a merchant j
who claimed he was a Seventh-Day
Adventlst and that he had closed his
business on Saturday. Justice. Maurice,
of the Folic Court. Part II., heard the
last three mentioned cases and Imposed
fines of 110 and costs in wuch.
MA XV A HE DISMISSED
o.v r.notMDS of necessity (
With thrse few exceptions, all other'
cases against firms and their employees
were dismissed by Justice Crutchfield.
who held that they were engaged In,
works of necessity. Amon? these were:
Rennle Dairy Company.
Tyler & Ryan, ice manufacturers.
1? Rromm Baking Co., Inc.
Virginia Railway and Power Com
pany.
Richmond Forgings Corporation.
American Bread and Baking Com-,
j pany.
i Home Brewing: Company (ice depart- \
i ment).
; American Locomotive Co.. Inc.
Mrs. Charles H. Jennings. Ice manu
I facturer.
j Tredegar Co., Inc. J
Liggett ft Mverp Tobacco Co. (Allen,
'and Ginter Branch).
Rosenegk Brewing Co. (cold storage
! plant).
j Merchants' Cold Storage, and Ice j
I Manufacturing Co.. Inc.
j Richmond Dairy Co.
Corby Baking Co., Inc.
John Bowman, selling ice.
i Romm &. Grazech. bakers.
| J. Rivlin. selling merchandise.
Richmond Cold Storage.
j Western Union Telegraph Co.
| Southern and Adams Express Com- j
| panies.
Postal Telegraph and Cable Co.
Chesapeake and Potomac Telephonn j
i co.
Nolde Brothers' Bakery.
Chesapeake and Ohio Railway I
| (roundhouse).
i Solomon Bakery.
!? Mocca's Bakery.
Glllio's Bakery.
Baldaccl's Bakery.
Crystal Ice Company.
Clarke Bakery.
J W. L. Hllllard A* Son. ice manufac.
I turers.
I MAYOR NOT SlllPRISED AT
V I'M II Ell OK ACItriTTALS i
? In dismissing the case against J. j
Rivlin. Justice Crutchfield placed him
self on record as holding the Jewish (
Mosaic Sunday legal for persons of i
that religious belief. This being true, j
?Jewish merchants will be allowed to.
close their business from Friday sun-'
down to Saturday sundown and to keep i
open on Sunday.
Taylor, who claimed to be a Sev- i
enth-Day Adventist. which sect oh- :
serves the Jewish Sunday, was fined i
when It was shown that he had been j
in the habit of closing his store on j
?Sunday before .he enforcement of the j
i blue laws. Justice Crutchfield will on- j
j force this rule as it relates to Jews
i also, it Is said.
The single newsboy arrested on Sun
I day on a charge of disorderly conduct,
in charge brought by a policeman, who
i found him crying hts papers on the
! street, was fined $6 and costs yeater
1day.
In discussing the decisions of the
?lower courts yesterday. Mayor Ainslie
[1 observed that his personal opinion as
1. to which of the enterprises wore works
1 lof necessity would^not he taken hs a
i guide, for the police, but that tests had
been made to securc court decisions on
j (Continued on Ninth Page.)
Drive Austrians Before Them
Toward Sereth River and
Carpathian Passes.
MORE PRISONERS CAPTURED
Germans Repulsed With Hand
Grenades in Attempt to Ap
proach French Lines.
Having captured Czcrnowitz, the
Rnvt-l.tns arc well on their way from
that city an'l fiv>m various points along
the River Pruth, driving the Austrians
before them toward the Sereth Rivet '
and the Carpathian Mountain passes.:
Numerous additional prisoners have
bf-cn captured by the Russians irt thoii .
drive. and more iruns, machine guns, '
ammunition and foodstuffs have fallen ;
Into their hnn<"ls.
i Heavy fighiln?r is still in progress to
the north, in Galicia and Volhynia, with
the Russians generally on the offensive,
hut with the Austro-Hungarians and
the Germans tenaciously battling
j against their further advance. In the
[region south of fhe Prlpe.t marshes, to'
j ?he west of Kolki. and alone- the Stok
hod River, where the Kovel-Kovno i
railway crosses the stream, the Rus
sian attacks have been partially re
pulsed by the Herman General von
j Linsengen's forces, according to Berlin,
| white northwest of Lutsk the battle is
1 going in favor of the Germans.
I'etrograd admits the penetration of
th? Russian lines i>y the Austrian? west
of Lutsk, near the town of I.okatchI,
but says that later the Russians re
trieved this setback. The announce
ment indicates that the drive in Vol
hynia has brought the Russians to .
within twenty miles of Vladimir
Volynsk, the head of the railway run
ning north through Kovcl.
CAI'Tl UK OF t.sntl PR IS OX KHS
A.VMU XCEl) I1V ltl"SMANS
Along the Galician border, near
Radziviloff, the Russians announce the
: capture of 1,S00 prisoners. Berlin re
j ports the situation of the Teutonic
allies in Northern Galicia, near Buczacz,
: as unchanged.
i On the front in France only one in
fantry action took place on M*onday.
This was between the Avre. and the
Uise, where the Germans attempted to
approach the French lines, but wcro
repulsed with hand grenades. Only
bombardments, violent in the region
northeast of Verdun anil against the
British positions- near Neuville - St. ?
Vaast, but intermittent elsewhere, have
taken place along the rest of the Una
in France and Belgium.
Numerous battles in the air, in which
six German machines, among them two
Fnkkers, were driven down by the Brit- f
ish, are recorded in the British official
communication. The British themselves
lost two aircraft.
A severe battle between the Aus-1
trians and Italians is in progress on
the Setti Communi plateau, to the west
of Asiago. On the various other sectors .
southeast of Trent numerous Austrian
attacks have been repulsed. The Ital- '
ians report some progress northeast of
Asiago an<l the capture of 100 Austrians j
land two machine guns.
Three Italian steamers and five Ital-]
ian sailing ships have been sunk At
J least one of the vessels, the steamer Le !
l'rovedita, is reported to have been sent
to the bottom by Austrian submarines.'
RUSSIAN'S TAKR It.OOO
PKISO.VKHS AT I'ZKRXOWI'rZ
I'ETROGRAD. Juno 19 'via Lon
don i.?The Russians took S,0.'>0 pris
oners in the city and vicinity of Czer
j nowltfc, the War Ofllco announced to
-day. The official statement says:
"On the front of General Brussiloff's
armies the enemy tried by courtter
attacks to arrest our advance toward'
Lemberg. In the region of the. village
of Rogovitchs, southeast of the village
of Lokatchi, six versts (about four
miles) south of the main road from
Lutsk to Vladimir-Volynski. the Aus
trians, in mass formation, attacked our
units, and, breaking through one sector
of the righting front, captured three
puna belonging to a battery which re
sisted bravely to the lasi cartridge.
< in receiving re-enforcemcnts, we over
threw the enemy, recaptui-fin; one gun
and taking 300 prisoners and two ma-t
chino guns.
"In the region of Koryty nitzky,
southeast of Svinioukhi. southeast of
1 Lokatchi, one of our valiant reiriments
launched a counterattack and put the
enemy to flight. Meanwhile, a section
of our light battery, posted in a wood
in advance, cannonaded the fugitives
point-blank. We took in this action
three officers, 100 soldiers and four
machine guns. Fast of Uorohoff, couth
of Svinioukhi, we seized, after a
I desperate resistance, a wood near the
I village of Rojeff, taking 1,000 prisoners
! and four machine guns.
I TROOPS HF.CKIVKO WITH
JI0TK OF LIUI ID FIHK
j "During attacks in the region on the
southern edpee of Radziviloff the enemy
received our troops with jets of liquid
fire. We took in this region yesterday
1,800 prisoners.
"Our troops, having occupied Cr.er
nowltz and crossed the Pruth at many
places, are advancing energetically to
ward the River Sereth, heing estab- j
llshed by the occupation of the bridge- j
head at Czernowitz. General Let- ;
chitzky took prisoner forty-nine of- :
fleers and more than 1.500 men and
captured- near the town ten guns. In
(Continued on Ninth Pago.)
$??] v> ?*.
Commands Virginia Troops
imiCJADIEK-GKN'KKAL C. C. VAl'CiFI.l.V, JH.
Xewly F.leeted Democratic Chairman
Confers With President and
Other Leuders.
VISITS MKMHE11S OF CA III NET
From Now On Will Devote Entire
Time to Pushing Fight?Main
Headquarters Will He Located in
New York.
WASHINGTON, June IP.?Plans for
an aggressive campaign to begin in>
mediatelv wore laid by Vance McCor
mick. newly elected chairman of the
Democratic National Committee, at con
(trcno?3 to-day with President \Y ilson, j
Representative Class, secretary of the
committee; Secretary .McAdoo, Post-i
master - Genera* Ilurlcson, Secretary j
Tumulty ami several other Democratic j
leaders.
Mr. McCormick spent three hours
with the President, and later visited
most of the members of the Cabinet
I now in Washington and several con-,
; gressional leaders
I "I have beauts my work, and from i
jnow on will devote my entire time to
pushing the Democratic campaign," said i
Mr. McCormick to-night. "With a |
united and harmonious party, the. pros
pects for victory In November are very
bright
"The plans have not been put in
1 shape yet, but I expect to see the Presi
dent .main in a few days, and soon
wt? will have everything: in working
? inter
The main headquarters of the Demo
cratic National' Committee will be lo
cated in New York, but much of thej
work will be done here and in Chi
cago. Mr. McCormick expects to be
in New York to-morrow to confer with
leaders. The first work, he said to-dav.
wiil be to select a campaign committee
of about eleven members, of which he
will be ex oflicto chairman.
DATK KOI* NOTIKVlNt;
WII.SOX NOT YKT KIXI'.D
The date for formally notifying Presi
dent Wilson of his renomination prob
ably will not be fixed until after the
Republican committee announces plans
for the notification of Mr. liUKhes. It
has been practically decided, however,
that Mr. Wilson will receive the notifi
cation committee at "Shadow Lawn."
his summer home in New Jersey.
The President already has begun pre
liminary work on his speech of accept
ance. It will follow the general lines
of the Democratic platform, and will
emphasize particularly the issues on
which the President expects the cam
paign to be fought?Americanism and
peace, preparedness and prosperity.
Simultaneously with the beginning of
the active presidential campaign, the
Democratic Congressional Committee,
headed bv Representative Doremus, of
Michigan, will begin work to secure
lhe re-election of a Democratic ma
jority In the Senate and House.
Vice - President Marshall returned
here to-day from Indianapolis, and said
that he would he at the disposal of the
| President for campaign purposes
vmr.iMA itKAnr.
C A O. Fust Train leaving Richmond
I 12-fio Noon, with parlor car arrives Vhgtala
I Reach 3:S?> P. M. C->nn?ctlOil Norfolk wtta
I wther Ftutt Trulna.r-Adv.
IE
TO INTERIOR STATIONS
Plan Seems to lie Not to Maintain
Heavy Garrisons at Holder
Points.
NO \K\V SICIX OF HOSTILITY
Fnnston Anxiously Studies Horder
for Developments Concerning Con
eentration on Mexican Side?All
QilitM in Hrownsville District.
SAX AXTOXIO, TEX.. Juno 13.?While
100,000 mcmliors of the militia were
being mobilized to-day, General Fnn
ston anxiously studied the border for
any indication of hostility on the part
of Carranza's troops. Officers com
manding patrols aloni; the Kio Grande
from Hrownsville to El Paso secured
wtytt information they oould concern-)
insr the movements on ilie Mexican side,)
both ?)f bandits ami government troops,
hut no official report reached army'
headquarters of anv incident likely to
disturb the delicately balanced rela- j
tions of the two countries.
General Pershing's report indicated
that General Trevino's troops hart not'
> <?i made any advance move, and army j
officers believed it improbable that they i
would, unless Trevino received special
| orders from Mexico City.
Such information as reached General
Fnnston concerning the movement of'
Mexican troops indicated 'a plan not to
maintain heavy garrisons at border
points, but to hold the bulk of the bor
der army some miles south of the Kio
< Jrande.
<! A It IIISIINS AT IIOllDKH TOWNS
CONSIST OP SMA1.I, WMIIF.HS
The garrison at Xuovo Laredo, Mex.. I
was strengthened by a mere handful,
of men. but at. Lampa/.os, between La-1
redo ami Monti-rev, there were held j
...t?0o or fi.OO" troops. The garrison at |
Laredo to-night was less than 1,000. j
At Piedras Negras, opposite Kagle Pass,
the Mexican garrison has been busy
leaving all day. To-night a considera-j
bit* force yet remained, hut the larger
part had moved to points south, where
they were Incorporated with bodies of
troops. Hcfore leaving Piedras Xegras
the Mexicans dismantled t)i?* machine <
shops, removing large quantities of the
material to the interior.
The concentration of heavy forces to
the south <>f Juarez also was reported-j
The onl> point where concentration at
a border town was being effected was
at Ojir.aga, opposite Presidio. There
not more than 500 were stationed, but
the American force at Presidio also is
small.
General Parker's reports from'
Mrownsville said all was quiet in his
district. Traffic over the nternatlonal
P.rldge, interrupted h\ the Mexicans on
the day the Americans crossed the river
in pursuit of the bandits, was not yet
j resumed, but the possession of pon
toons would make communication
simple, should General Parker have oc
casion to send another force into
i Mexico.
General Funston to-night had not. in
dicated to the War Department Just
what units <>f the militia he wanted
first, nor where they would bo placed,
} but If was believe 1 that he would ask
| for those of New York, Illinois and
Pennsylvania, first, and because of
their sup*-riorit.\ at organization .uid
equipment, they would be placed at
1 border stations without loss of time.
NOTE TO CARRANZA
IS STERN REFUSAL
10 QOIT MEXICO
Question of War Depends
on His Reception of
U. S. Reply.
WASHINGTON OFFICIALS
EXPECT HOSTILITIES
National Guardsmen Throughout
Nation Mobilizing to
Guard Border
TO AWAIT FUNSTOX'S ORDERS
Increasing Uneasiness Felt Over
Plight of American Civilians Now
in Southern Republic.
WASHINGTON', June 19.?War -with
Mexico depends on General Carranr.a's
reception of a stern refusal by the
United States to heed his demand for
:i recall of American troops, in the
opinion of President Wilson's close
advisers.
Thev were prepared to-night for the
possibility of open hostilities after the
note, which will he sent forward to
morrow. has reached Carranza's lianas.
Xo indication has come that the first
chiefs attitude of implacable hostility
would lie shaken by the reiterated dec
laration of the latest communication
that the United States has no aggres
sive or warlike purpose toward Mex
ico. but is firmly resolved to protect
her borders and end brigandage in the
border States.
The reply to Carranza's note demand
ing recall of General Pershing's expedi
tion was in the hands of the govern
ment. printer to-night, preparatory to
its delivery and publication to-morrow.
.MI XOil ( IIAXIJES AM) ADDITIONS
NECESSITATE DELAY'
Secretary Lansing had intended to
send it forward to-day. but at the last
moment minor changes and additions
to the 6,000-word document necessitated
delay. Although it had been planned
to send It by special messenger to
Mexico City, the situation has changed,
and it probably will.be handed to
KJiseo Arredondo, Mexican ambassador
designate.
\\ bile the diplomatic steps were in
progress to-day the nation was stirring
throughout its width and breadth with
the movement of national * guardsmen
mobilizing to guard the border. At
least 100,000, and possibly a far larger
number, were preparing for active ser
vice under President Wilson's call. For
the present their mission will ha purely
one of defense, but should wnr come,
they will lie ready also for that. The
new forces will not be assigned for
border duty until mustered into the
Federal service.
Even when mobilization is completed,
only such units will be ordered south
as General Funston desires to fill the
gaps In his l.SOO-mile guard line. The
remainder will rest on their arms at
the State mobilization camps for the
present, awaiting the turn of events.
I'l-A.ME OF I'OI'l IjAIt FEELIXG
KIXDMJll IX MEXICO
Ortlolai reports from many quarters
show that a ti.ime of popular feeling
against the United States is being
kindled throughout Mexico, apparently
with the sanction of General Carranza.
tor the acts in many cases are those oC
his authorized militia or civil agents.
I- rom Juarez to the west coast posters
have appeared calling the people to
arms and asserting that the United
States is preparing to hurl its armies
into Mexico. Chaotic conditions prevail
everywhere, it is said. Clashes such as
that between Mexican troops and
American bluejackets at Mazatlan yes
terday show that relations are strained
to the breaking point. The act of a
subordinate commander anywhere may
bring on fighting that will result in
v\ ar.
So far as officials here are aware.
General Carranza Is taking no strong
measures to curb his soldiers and peo
ple Upon tiii.s fact many of them
tound their belief that he is determined
to force matters to an issue unless the
American troops are withdrawn.
Neither State Department officials nor
members of the diplomatic corps hero
hav? been able to satisfy themselves
as to j General Carranza's motives.
There are some, however, who believe
he hopes to ride Into popularly an a
diplomatic triumph over his powerful
northern neighbors, or upon a war
wave which might establish his tot
tering government in popular estima
tion. Once the war was on and the
certain defeat of his armies fore
shadowed, these observers say. General
Carranzn might sue for peace, trusting
to the magnanimity of the Washington
government to leave him in power.
IXC It K ASt\(i IX10 A SIX ESS
OVEU IM.lt, IIT OF A M ERICA XS
increasing uneasiness over the plight
of some 5,000 American civilians now
In Mexico was manifested to-day in
official quarters. Approximately 1.500
of that number are In Mexico City, de
spite warning after warning through
American consuls and other official*.
Another emphatic message advising
them to leave Mexico immediately was
sent by the State Department through
