777\I'v'
Want. $40? TthNG
It's possible for you to get it.
See page 7 of today's Herald and ' Is 34 m
learn about the cash awards of from cur sn
.,00Retter Perad in your subscription
$3 to $4o each to Herald Readers. N -Il'c a month, daJIy ant
.TH E WT unday, delivered to your dooT.
NO. 3532. WEATHER-FAIL WASHINGTON, D. C., TUESDAY, JUNE 20, 1916. ONE CENT.
"ROOKIES" RUSH
TO THE COLORS;
OVER 500 JOIN
National Guard Recruiting Of
fices Here Crowded All
Through Day.
FIGURES MAY REACH 700
More Than 400 Enlist at One
Station in Less Than
Twenty-four Hours.
HUNDREDS OF BOYS REJECTED
Police Are Required to Keep Back'
Throngs of Curious at L
Street Armory.
With recruiting stations in various
sections of the city still crowded a,
the midnight hour approached, offi
cials of the District National Guard
paused long enough in the rush of
preparations -to formulate an estimate
of the net result of the day's enlist
ment campaign.
Their conservative estimate was,
that during the day, fully 500 persons
filled out papers with the local mili
tia. Others estimated the number as
considerably higher. probably about
700. but when the final tabulations
are made this morning. the figures.
in the opinion of those at militia
headquarters, will be close to 500.
Rough estimates made lato last
night by officials regarding the en
listment. by the individual units com
posing the brigade, are as follows;
Infantry regiment, 23.
Separate battalion of infantry. col
ored. 50.
Field Hospital, V)
Battery A. Field Artillery. 45.
Battery B. Field Artillery, 4.
Signal Corps. 50.
This makes a total of 445. but as re
cruiting continued for some time after
this estimate was made, it is very pos
sible that the grand total Is somewhat
in excess of 500.
Fer Hundred at One station.
Thi greatest amount of recruiting was
done at the station at 12- Perimsylv'nia
avenue northwest, which was thronged
gcontinuously until late last night. At
thought the exact number of enlistments
was not recorded, offilals t.timated that
approximately 400 persons joined at thisi
one station. As this is a general re
cruIting office all of the papers were sent
immediately to the , street armory,.
where assignment to the various units
composing the brigade was made.
Scores of mere boys were rejected at I
'he Pennsylvania avenue station because
hey were under 15 years of age. They
rould not even make a bluff by saying
hey were 18. for no one possibly could
save believed them. so childish did thcy
look. A large percentage of the recruits'
were between the ages of I and 21.
All occupations were represented by
those who filled out papers. There were,
carpenters. clerks, teamsters, oMce bovs,
buttchers. and students.
The total number of men who filled out
applIcation blanks does not represent the
number of men actually enlisted. A cer
tain percentage of the applicants failed
to pass the rigid physical examination
The number of militiamen will he still
further cut down when the entire brigade
is subjected to a still more rigid ph, sical
examination by regular army surgeons.
durinz the mustering-in period at Fort
Uyer. I
Each of the twelve companies of the'
infantry regiment had its individual re
cruiting station in operation at the L
Street Armory until nearly midnight.
Each company enlisted approximately
twenty men. The corridors were crowded
with enlisted men In khaki. and green
looking recruits, and officials in shIrt
lieeves. and husky men hurrying to and
fro with arms full of blanket rolls and
canteens and haversacks. Outside a spe
clal detail of policemen kept the big crowd
In check.
aignal Corps Has U0ces.
The Signal Corps. Field ArtIllery
batteries. Field Hospital and Cavalry
Troop had recruiting stations In full
blast at 28 First street northwest. The
present strength of the Signal Corps is
1T men fifty of whom are radio opera
tors. The radio men will not be taken
to Fort Mdyet. unless the militia decides
to organize a radio battalion. One hun
dred and sixty-three men would be re
- uired for such a unit. There are enough
applications on fie to organIze such a
unit by nightfall, according 1o of~cials.
The Signal Corps will take only seventy
five men into the field. Eight of these
men will be weeded Out at Fort Mlyer.
to be replaced by eight Wester Union'
operators if they can be obtaine . The
fifty persons who filled out papers yes-I
terday will be reserved.
Americaa Steamer Wrecked.
London. June 19.-The American
steamer Seaconnet struck a mine and
was totally wrecked, according to a
LUoyds dispatch from Yarmouth. The
beaconnet displaced 2,294 tons and sail
ed from Philadelphia.
.atesset service to Baltimer.
Bltim ore and Ohio "Every hour on the
8er. 1.10 Uaturdays and Sudayu,
w dge 83.78 good tglp-',y,
Carranza Wel Armed
By Shippers in U. S.
Treasury Department figures on
the export of arms and ammuni
tion to Mexico during the present
year, yesterday showed the follow
ing valuations:
January-Firearms, S11.75; cart
ridges, 1I3,95: dynamite, $l20.105;
gunpowder, $1,J-In; other explosives,
310,.3%6.
February 3Z3: cartridges, 1116,
370; dynamite. 341,081; gunpowder.
$4t: other explosives. Sloq7s.
March-Firearms, none; cart
ridges, L0i774; dynamite. $.W919;
gunpOwder, 31,09; other explosives,
$13,31q.
April-Firearms, 31,A; cartridges.
361.875; dynamite, $t1.142; gunpow
(ler. 0369; other explosives, 124,Mt2.
Figures for 3fay and June are
not available. Practically all the
exports were for the ('arranza gov
ernment.
TO PAVE WAY
FOR MILITIA
Congress Will Be Urged to
Authorize Federalization of
Guard for Foreign Service.
WILITIAMEN TO BE ASKED
TO SIGN A DOUBLE OATH
ksthough Guardsmen May Be Sent to
Border, Law Cannot Force
Service in Mexico.
(hairman Jamnes Hay, f the Miar)
\ffaiis Committee. 1a uxpr td t, ask
inanlmous conseit in th' liouse tiday
for the Immediate coirideratioin of a
joint resolution authorizini th- Presilrnt
:) draft the National G aii -foi se rvk
,n foreign aoil.
The puripose of th- ,reolution is t,
mnake the National (Giard ,f the o.nl.
summoned on Sunda, 1 Prssient \\ ii
son to the servic e ot the I ritcl iftates.
ivailalle" for S-riice in MIc,. should
L large-sale invasion become necessar).
The draft of th- proioned measure was
ient to Mr. Hay .esterlay by Secretar
>f War Baker with an urgent reque't
hat it be passed without de:ay. Actio,
would have b-en taken on it yestrday
ifternoon had ths r-,ilution reach, Mr.
Htay before the Hoe iadjournd.
In a ,nfernce later with Secretary
eralized the Presid, t. uron author ity
mittee was iformed that the War 110
lartm-nt rehards the ieotinon at this
lime as meriy Ire-autionary. There h,
r intention now. Mt. HIa wvas told, to
mend the National Giardesnen aioss the
>order into Mexi- o. -ut the War Depart
ment thinks it adsisable to have the
authority in the event of an emergency.
Federalisation Planned.
Under existing law the President has
authority only to -aill nut the State
troops to repel invasion, and cannot re
ruire them to go outside the territorial
limits of the U'nited States. It was to
zet around this onstitutional prohibi
tion that Congress passed the tiniw army
:rganization bill, recently signed by th
President, to "Federalize" the National
3uard through the pro-ens of a double
3ath, which will obligate those taking it
to bear allegiance to the Federal govern
ment as well as to the Kovernments of
their respective States.
Section Itt if the new 1,,w provides
that when the National Guard is rn Fed
eralized the President. unon :uthority
from Congress. may proceed to draft the
State troors, in time of war or threat
ened war, for foreign s-i r-. It is pro
posed by the resolution whieb Mr. Iny
will introdue today to gaie the Plrei
dent authority to inoke the machinery
of this section as soon aa the National
Guard, summoned out by the President.
is mustered in under the new oath.
Army officials are already frankly
dubious as to the extent to which tmem-'
hers of the National iuard ire going to
be willing to serve in Mexi-s. While tin
der the present law the- can h required
to turn out for duty on the border. It isi
feared that many of them will shrink
from taking the new oath Consequent
ly. it is anti-lpated that a rituation will
arise under which part of the National,
Guard will prefer to cntinue their pres
ent status, while others will e wili4g
to be "Federalized."
U. S. Officers Held.
Austin, Tex., June 19.--Col. Emmett E.
Walker andi Capt. Geirde J. Head, of
the Texas National Guard. were today
;wnvicted by a Jul y of lmproperiy selling
war department prop nrty to Mexlcan
revolutionists. The suipplies which they
sold were entered on the War Depart
ment hooks at a valuation uf $WA~h They
were disposed of to Mexicans for Stin.m
King Predists Victory.
Rome, June 19.--When the new min
sters of the Boswell t'ahinet took the
>ath today. King Victor Emmanpel
maid to them. "Nobody, seeing the
nagnificent brawery of Our troops, can
save any doubt of our final victory."
Verdun Loses 165,000.
Geneva. June 1.-The French losses
Lrouhnd Verdun in killed and wounded up
:o June 5 amount to aproxinately 16
f0. These louses have Occurred on a
ront which is not me ban tsa
.#i am In mta.
D.C.G UARDSMEN
ENCAMP TODAY
AT FORT MYER
District Militia, 2,300 Strong,
Will March to Radio and
Pitch Tents.
TO BE REVIEWED FIRST
Embryo Soldiers Will Be In
spected in Convention
Hall at I o'Clock.
RECRUITING TO BE CONTINUED
aen. Harvey and Staff May Be Left
Behind Unless Order Is Changed.
Men Eager for Duty.
Twenlt-three hundred officers and
men of the I strict National Guard.
led 'by their laid. w Il march up
Pennyl-vania as, i across the Aque
iu-t Hi idge to Fort kyer at 1 o'clock
thi iaf.e no. The,.r they will be
m usteret into Federal service. By 2
clock theoY n ill ie encamped at
tadio ready to start for Mexico with
it an hour.
ltd rst to entrain. howe-:-r, are not
expe-ted be fore next week. During
th 1 inteimi recruiting will be pushed
i;io usly. It is expected that when
the fi nal order to adsance comes every
L"m'paly will lbe . tabst 'd up to its
f " star trengtI of U0i men.
'r,'tttinary to the match to tamp.
the mnembers of the Third infantry
wi ll be reviewel by Gen. Harvey and
his staff in Convention Hall. The
m'-ti111 catty equipment ',its weigh
ng about cightefn pounds each. There
i Il he nothing dressy nor spectacu
at boh ut the review,. Instead, it will
be atmost grim. The pturtpose is to
see ti at every man is properly
equipped for actual war.
Gen. Hamrsey Mae He Lef.
twing to an oersight a! the War De
partment, the Guardsmen at present bid
air to in sent to Mexico wIthout their
onianding ofler ir any members of
his iimmedrliate staff, Gen. Willantm F Har
tey. head if the 1Distric: forces, hears
ane titl- titgadier ge "eal. but ihe Dis
lit Atiia is not large enough for a
b: gadl. To frmitt a brigade it is neces
nair to his at Ikast three regiments.
The Iict iitia has only one.
The ordters oi the War Department (all
,ni: out tbe local lorces, summoned them
is unit,. the infantry, the cavalry. the
a:tiller,. the medical <orps. the signa:
-orps atid the First Separate Battalion
, colored troops each forming a un:t.
.s a res'ilt. Gten. Harvey and his staff
hnae been :eft out. lnless the phrase
and headqiuarters' is appended to the
present order of the War Department,
lhey sill not b. aliowed to go with the
iin. Ilarvey. however. Is iconfident that
ihe pr sent state of affairs will be reme
tied so.ne time today. le declared he had
et i aiting twienty-fIve years for a
I irk at teal --erice' and that he In
i ndsd to take the matter of his detail
up with th. War I epaitment in person
r-is iii ning. Should he fail to be in
imlit it the orilers, the Dtistrict forces
Aill l- under command of Co. Glendie H.
Youin. \l: the tore-s and omeers. under
-I i cu mstances-, probaly nould be
lacd unier olderts of the regitular post
otmmiai.der at Firt Myer.
Double Oath Not Requred,
Unlike esery ,ther National (uard or
gninzation in the I-nited States, it will
not he necessary to administer new oaths
of allegianie to the District troopers. The
numnerou State nilit tat that are now
mtiobilizing sill hate to ie Federalized.
The District militia is already a Fed sat
organizatiti. It has alwnys been so. is
men, ott -nlistment, take exaitly the
sianie oath as that administered to re
t tilts of the regular United Statcs army.
Ifftiers of the Guari expwt thtie to
stand them in good stead today. On
teaching Fort Alyer. the mien still be
examined by officers of the linited States
Medical Corps to determine their physical
titness for servi e. In othlr militias
this examination is expected to deplete
the roster perhaps seriously. The Dis
trict militiamen, en the other hand, will
ftice the re-examinatioin without a qualm.
Being is Edteal uirganization, the iden
tical phyeicatl tequirements of the regular
U'nited States army are demanded of1
the recruIts in the beginning.
Thle dluipment of the DistrIct fo-s
hegan mbovinge to the mobilization camp
yesterday. Bedding, tents, stpplies and
anmmunitton were carried across thme Vir
glnia tine to Radio on the [District Na
tional Gutard wagon train. This com
prises seventy army transportatton
wagons, all of the newest models.
American Beef for Mexicans.
Douglas. Ariz., June 19.--Large
auantitlea of supplies, consisting main
ly of American beef. were shipped
scross the border to Agua Prieta to
:lay to 'the Carranza army under Gen.
Ialles.
Gen. Calles has announced that he
will make no effort to defend Argua
Prieta in the event of hostilit.
wrill make a stand at Fron
unsana
D F1 '
DEFIT
B 1
DEVELOPMEN1
IN MEXII
Following are the outstandini
ican situation:
Two Mexican states declared
to reports.
Secretary of War Baker sent
tary Affairs Committee the text
Wilson to draft the National Gua
Hay today will ask unanimous co
consideration of the resolution.
The governors of thirty-nine
President's order calling out the
yet to be heard from is New Jerse
Secretary of State Lansing a
note demanding a withdrawal of i
be forwarded today. It will be d
redondo and will refuse to compl
The Mexican government 1
through Arredondo, the Mexican
tween American bluejackets and h
sailor and a number of Mexicans
Carranza Troo
Toward War
To Threat
By H. STANSBI'RY.
#11neratiemal News Service.)
Et Pasn. June 12.-The war-like snai
from the Mexican Mile of the bonrder
rrowing louder and more menacing m
the hours go by. Carranzista tron;
have worked all day throwing up eart
fortifications at the south end of tt
International Bridge. Another larg
force has entrenched across the RS
Grande from Yeleta. ten miles south t
Et Paso.
An Amer.an believed to be a soldit
was shot by snipers from Juarez. whil
bathing in the river near the Santa F
bridge late today. -Gen George Bell. jr
has ordered an investigation to establis
the identity of the victim
A refugee train from Chihuaht
brought out a number of foreigners wk
reported passing seven troop trains loa<
-d to the guards with Mexican soldiers i
Moctezuma on the Mexican Central. TI
trains were moving in the direction 4
Juarez and are expected to arrive durr
the night.
Gen. Frances o Serrano. chief of staff t
1,500 Yaqui L
To Attack
(By the sn News ervice.)
San Antonio. Tex.. June 19--Informa
tion reaching Gen. Funston tonieht ir
licatel that the citizens of Del Rio wer
greatly Alarmed over a report that 1..
Yaqui Indians and de facto soldiers wer
marching on that city. The reports sai
the troops were forty miles south of I
Rio and intended to attack tonight.
Col. Sihle'y. of the Fourteenth Cavalr:
has a "fair sized" number of troops a
Del Rio. it was said. but as a pre-autior
ry measure Gen. Greene. commandin
from Eagle Pass, dispatched a battalio
Czar's Armie
Pruth, Advan
London, June I.-A xigorous proseci
Lion of the Russian successes at Czern<
witz Is indicated by today's official stati
ment from the war office at Petrogra<
The invading forces have crossed ti
Pruth at several places and are pushir
Dn toward the Sereth River with the doi
ble object of disintegrating the arr
rected from the Hukowinan capital ar
y tting rearer to Lembherg from the couti
east. The Russians are reported fort:
four nmiies fom Lemberg.
The capture of Caernowitz netted ti
Russians 3,0C0 prisoners in addition to
ruplantity- of military supplies, the Russia
war offiee says.
A reverse quickly overcome on tU
utl-Kovel sector, is admitted. The tota
rnmber of prisoners reported in the day
RussIan report is 7,700 bringing the grart
total since thre offensive tbegan to nearl
l5.080.
The Austrian. have fallen back ona
average of twenty-fiye miles along til
entire front in Galacia and Volhynla e:
cept on those sectors in front of Tarn<
pol.
The Rtussians have straighrtened the:
fronlt out wonderfully and are in a pos
ion to deliver further heavy blow,.
Sharp fighting with the German, on tU
rfenive has. taken plae oni numerotr
the western front during tU
*four hours.
a. -a bmetk b..a..as n
To U6 11
Y GEN.
[S OF DAY
CAN SITUATION
developments of the day in the Mex
war on the United States, according
to Chairman Hay of the House Mili
of a resolution authorizing President
rd for "service on foreign soil." Mr.
nsent in the House for the immediate
States acknowledged receipt of the
National Guard. Among the States
y- - President Wilson s home State.
inounced that the reply to Carranzaa
he American. forces from Mexico will
elivered in person to Ambassador Ar
y with the demand.
>resented to the S:ate Department.
version of the clash at Mazatlan be
lexican forces, in which one American
were wounded.
ps Take Step
in Moving Men
en Pershing Line
has ers , ished h-adquartrs in Juarrz
- and a . nr ,I l .]? Irmm nd r r the tar
.s ranca fos :n A thr . riet*ic
The emr Northwkestrn r i!road fror
Chtaahua to Nadlea has ben com
A mndicred hr Gen. Jacinto Trevino for
e troop movmcments to the westward Thi
e is arrepted by the Amerinan mtn itary au
thoritips as veirrden of t, pnt t
attack Gen. Pereh:ng a souther hir ar.d
posit:ons in the vicinity o Namn4mua
The 'Mexi-can - urnn estimated at
r.5 me,n w11hi1h Irtarted thtOurgh the
Canyon from V\,ls AhumnadaH. m thr
-- direction of an American i:ne of corn
h mun wa tion at El Vaal is , till proceed
ing sloey feward. (ni. Perbshrmg
is said to have serit out a lar ge cav
o1 airy aiard to che-k this advance
I toward his linee. A report of a clash
it between the two forces at any t m.
le would not he a surprise.
The military authorities areatis
fied. h..wever, that the Aerian
forces w i be %, :;I nih!r to protet
ft thremesive,
ridians Move
City of Del Rio
-f the Thirdl infantr, In moto.r trp-k
to Co. .ie pport Ti- trucks left
Eagle Pass at a, ;T 7 erI-k t.on.zhr, and
were expetIed to rearh Del P, by m d
01 night.
e The Ind:ana snd trr pe Areat ae
d those n hich1 tihe 9overnor of Coah
I snt rn rthward sev-rNI weeks ago to _t
tck the ihley.anghorn. exedtron.
Southern Ie partmrentt ofre rs Ihr ar' .
t futable infoTnation that the t r hulls
executive did liSpath a for. against
g the Americans as was repor:ted at that
n . tile.
s Cross River
cing on Lemberg
_Meuse, th<( artillery of hehl armnie, wats
active. but there was no infantrt right
ing In that sector. Folloaning shar
I clashes yesterday in which both
leiaim suces-es, no furthr attarks ia'e
! been launhlitd.
There has been further great act1Vity
InI the air, bomnbarding4 operation, hehind
'1 both fronts being ciarried Ott extensively.
1- Berlin reports that two Biritiuh and one
FiFench aeropiane were bought down.
Sules for $150,000.
aNew York. June 19 -Joseph Stevenson
Ralston, prresident of the Ralston Car
eSates Company, who lives in Columbus.
Ohio, and tm-akes his home in this city. at
the Vanderbilt Hotel. has been sued by
Dr. George F. Demarest for alienating the
affections of Mrs. Pearl Rt. D~emare~st,
from whom Dr. Demarest got a dtvorcre
ns on April 28 -last. Dr. Demtarest asks
le $150.000 damages.
SSpain Fears Mexican War.
MadrId. June 19.-The new-s from Mexico
l( Is creatIng an enormous stir here, owing
I- to the financial and senrtmental inter
esta engaged. King Alfonso has received
* a cable from the large Spanish colony fth
is Mexico begging his mediationr to prevent
0 war between the United States and
Mexico, the consequences of which would
4 hea srianm to bh artes
ISSUED
CARRANZA
WAR IS DECLARED
BY TWO MEXICAN
STATES ON U. S.
Sinaloa and Yucatan Hold American
Government to Be in State of
Hostility With Their Re
spective Units, Report.
Two States Declare War
Upon the Stars and Stripes.
By %um % ew; sre
San Diego, Cal., June 19.-The governor of the state of Sinaloa
has declared war on the United States, according to a radiogram today
from Commander Arthur Kavanangh, of the gunboat Annapolis, new
at Mazatlan.
.luternational e N eric.
El Paso, Tex., June 19.-The Mexican state of Yucatan has de
clared war against the United States, according to a report received here
today.
n e-r+ e e
Mexico City, June 19 (via Galveston)-First Chief Carranza in
an interview this afternoon said:
"I have ordered the military leaders of our forces near the border
not to permit the further passing of any American forces into Mexican
territory.
"If they attempt to pass they will be attacked by the Constitu.
tionalist forces.
"These instructions given by Gen. Trevino to Gen. Pershing no
to advance further were issued by me to the War Department which
transmitted them to Gen. Trevino."
The First Chief was emphatic in his statement that the first
American expedition was not an attempt to catch bandits.
NO REAL CO-OPERATION.
"in spite of friendly words," said the general, "there has been
no real co-operation on the part of the Americans. They took their
heavy cannon and all their impedimenta for a campaign in Mexico
It was not alone for bandits. The Mexican people who have waited
patiently for three months believing the words of the United States
now believe that these words were not sincere and are becoming in
dignant.
Gen. Carranza repeated again that Mexico does not want war
and that no attempt has or will be made by Mexico to cross into the
United States but he stated the sovereignty of Mexico must be re
spected.
"We will resist any attempted invasion. We are weak while the
United States is strong but we will fight to the last."
DEPENDS ON UNITED STATES, HE SAYS.
Gen. Carranza today delivered the following speech to several
hundred students who had called on him to offer their services in the
case of war with the United States.
"it is impossible for me to forecast what will be the outcome, for
that depends upon the United States, not upon us. We have no desire
to precipitate war, but if unfortunately we are obliged to enter into
an unequal contest, I have faith that we all know how to comply with
our duty, and we will perish before seeing our national territory con
quered. If unfortunately we engage in war, you are young and prob
ably will survive and continue to tight on to regain our independence
in the event it should be lost temporarily.
"You will remember that we are descendants of two great races,
Spaniards and Indians, and that the Spaniards first succeeded in re
gaining their independence after fighting against the Moors for one
hundred years, and at the same time began their efforts to discover
America. I repeat that if unfortunately we succumb to war, which
we don't seek, but which we will sustain with dignity, you will con
tinue to fight until you have obtained a new national independence."
"WILL SACRIFICE LAST DROP OF BLOOD"
Cern. Obregon, Minister of War, also spoke to the students as fol.
lows:
"in all contests of honor the contestants first take the measure of
their arms in order that they may be able to fight on equal terms. if
the United States desires to defend its honor unquestionably it should
take the same number of men as we have and have them eqnal9
armed and fight on a field selected by mutual consent. But the United
Shie does not intend to do this. It has designs to crush us witis
brute force and to defile our soil with the feet of the invader. Before
this prospect we are determined to sacrisce the last drop of our bleed
0 suemn ?Afl TrW@
