THE WEATHER
Fair to-day and tomorrofyptfii$'crate
IT SHINES FOR ALL
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 294.
RUSSIANS CUT
OFFDEFEMRS
OF BUK0W1M
Advancing on tho Soivth
Tontoiis. ppn forced,
i Lose ;M)00 Prisoners.
VOLIIYXrA T HOOPS
HOLDING NEW LINE
British Armored Autos
Reach Russian Front
fpecttil Vallt Ptspatth foTitz Ses.
liONnoN, Juno 1!. A Hiitlsh
armored nutnmobllo detachment
under Naval Commander t.ockcr
Lampson arrived cm J unis T In
Moscow, rthuru It was received with
a great official and popular re
Cf pt !on. The detachment started
lor tho Russian front nn Juno 9.
rettogrutl despatches say tho IJrlt-!.-h
armored ear unit comprises sev
rral hundred sailors, mostly Irish.
HelfiUn armored cars which wero
in uso at tho front received Brent
praise In a Russian official state
ment at the beginning of tho new
I'tfetisivo against Austria.
Siraal CMt Detixitch to The Srs,
t.0Npn.v, June 19. Further progress
Mid additional large capturea of Austro
Hunsarlan and (lerman prisoners by (he
armies of Gen. llruslloff In Volhynla,
tinllcla and the Hukottlna are reported
In to-night's Russian War Olftcc state
ment. Hjtli the amount of the ground Earned
f.d the number of prisoners taken are
l:pht In comparison with the eucccsscs
ol the first ten da)s of the Russian
offensive, hut the claims arc sufficient to
indicate that the advanco keeps up
rtendlly. notwithstanding tho strong re
cnlorccmorit& the Teutons hnve been able
by tins time to bring up to aid their
hard prcsted southern lints,
After the fall of Czernowilz, capital
cf the Hukowina. otlielally announced by
Petrogracl and admitted by Vienna yes
terday, lit n. HruslloiT forces swept
cctota the Truth and are now "energeti
cally advancing towaid tho River
Scicth." Tnis river comes nearest to
Czernowilz at tho fortified city of
Storzynetz. defended by a strong bridge
head similar to, although less powerful
than that of Czu now Itz. At this btlikio
lic.nl. about thirteen nub's to Hie southwest
of Czernowitz, the Austru-Hungurlans
.lie expected to make their last stand
i i escape the only alternatite to night
tmo me Carpathian mountains.
Tho army which defended the southern
Hukowina Is In soro stialts. Some tin
"fliclsl despatches declare It to be
aheady cut off from the northern forces
a d retreating toward Kolomea and
Kuty, to the west, and part of it south
. ard to Dornavatra. The army is com
n anded by (Jen. I'llanzcr.
Ilenvj- PIkIiIIiik enr Kuvrl.
In the centre of the new battle line,
half way between Hovno and Hovel,
wheie Teutons and Russians have been
bii'hng for several da'ys now, the for
nur for the retention, the latter for the
ipture of the creat railway converging
ilnt Ixovcl, German reenforcemcnts
ru.-iied south by tho Bavarian General,
Count von Hothmer, are making their
ifleht felt sufficiently to hold the Itus
nan In check.
Further south, between tho fortress of
T.utzk and Vladlmlr-Volynskl, south of
ths road connecting these two points,
the Austrian during the last twenty
fimr hours launched a powerful counter
attack In which they succeeded. accord
Ins to to-night's official Russian state
ment, In breaking through a sector of
On. Hruslloff's front and capturing
'".rpe puns. The Muscovite forces, how
fr, promptly reenforced, In a counter
blow recaptured one (run and took Sou
prisoners. Nevertheless, Indications are
the Teuton front Is still Intact In this
legion.
Less than two miles northeast of the
Oallcl in frontier, south of Radzlwllow,
he Russians report hi vine taken 1,800
prisoners In fighting In which tho Aus
trlans used liquid fire. The town of
Radzlwllow was captured last Saturday.
Here, too, therefore, the Teutons appear
to he making a strong stand, for the
quick Russian dash Into Gallcla, ex-r.n"t-d
after the fall of Radzlwllow, has
not et materialized. Radzlwllow lies
on the direct line from Rovno to J.em
bTj, ms rirody, from which city It Is
n"I more than three miles distant.
.i.oilO More Prisoners.
In the fighting yesterday Petrngrnd
ttan.ii ft 3,iini) prisoners were taken.
The Russian official report follows :
On the front of Gen. Hruslloff's
ma's the enemy tried by counter at-
Kh io arrest our advance toward
1n'ierR In tho reclon of the vll
''Kf of RoKovltchs, southeast of the
flue or l.olratsolil, slv versts (about
in U s) south of the main road
f' ii I. itzk to Vladlmlr-Volynskl. the
A ,
'r a s in mass formntlon attnckeil
s nnd breaking through one
f the fighting front captured
nuns belonging to a battery
leaisteil bravely to the last
(j.i i pi elvlng reenforce-
we overthrew the enemy, recap-
one gun and taking 300 prls-
I two inaehllie KUlis,
I
rcg oi of Korytynllzky,
of Swnoiikhl, sotitheimt of
one of our valiant rcVi-
i i la "iniieil a counter attack and
ii .1 k. rr.enit to ll.glit. .Meanwhile a
hi' ,e ,,f f,u, i j.,t battery pouted In a.
" ll ailvanie ratinnnailed the
'nil t ten point blank We look in this
c ii three olllcer h, 100 noldlers nnd
'')'ir uia hlne guns.
t-ist oi llntolimf. south of Stinlnu
1' n se zed utter a desperate resist
r " i wood near tho village of
llwlf inking I, Ond prlMoners nnd four
i" ne Kims
I'ui.ng att o ks m the region on the
urn hern edge of Kailnlwllnw the
aim received our Hoops with Jets of
h'i i die We look In this region
!'s ia) l.Si'O pi .Miinrs.
Ailinitclnu i'onnril he Serelh.
O n troops, having occupied Czerno-
find crossed the I'ruth nt mnny
ti ' . are sdvanclntf energetically
Coitliitcert on Pljth rage.
GEN, BRUSILOFF
TELLS HOW 616
DRIVESTARTED
Russians at Last Had
Enough Ammunition to
liako the Trenches.
LKAHXKI) LESSON IX
DEFEATS BY (J KliMAXS
Sprnul Callt tttipalth to Tne Scs.
I.O.MHIV, June 10. Stanley Washburn,
t turrespondent of the Time, telecralihs
I an Interxlew with t!cn. llruslloff under
date of June IS, quotlns the Russian
General ns follows:
"Our swieplnR successes are not the
r toduct of n chance or of Austrian weak
itess, but they repiesent the application
t'f all tho lessons we leained In watfare
laKiiinst the Getinans. The principal ele
I incnt of success Is the absolute coordlna
I tlon of nil nrmliK.
j "On the entire front the attach began
in the same hour, and It was. Impossible
I for the enemy to shift his troops from
one quarter to another, as our attacks
were pressed equally at all points.
"The most Important fighting has been
in the sector before Rovno. Here we
I made our crcatent advances, which are
itrlkins seriously at the strategy of the
whole enemy front. I
"If wo ate able to lake Kovtl a rail
way centre oxtioordinnrlly ueful for In-1
tercommunlcatlmis of the Germans nnd (
Austrlans will be In our hands'. Tiiai
this menace t fully realized by the
ineiny Is obvious. from the fact that the
Germans are supporting this sector with
all aailable troops that can tie rushed
up. Some are coming from the west nnd
sume from points on the eastern front
north of us."
Asked to explain the Kfent numlier of
prisoners announced In the oUUial re
ioits Gen. Hruk'.loff said:
Trenches Mrnnre Ilefrndrrs.
"The nature of the modern trenches,
which makes them, with their deep tun-
.1- . ,n..ln.,a an A I f f I .
cult' to destroy, renders them a menace ! I'kkkskii.i., .V. Y.. June 19 -Major-to
their own defenders. Once a position f"pn. John I. O'Ryan and commanding
is taken iroin the irar or flank II Is tin- jollleers or the National Gunid leqlmentij
possible to escape quickly. ,.m;of this Stat., completed to-day the mo-1
had siiltlcient ammunition to use a cur- '
tain of tire, preventing the enemy from
letliiiiK save tlirougn a zone or snrap- ,
nel. which makes their surrender Impcra
the."
With reward to the situation ..s a
whole Gen. Hruslloff said
"It Is difficult to estimate as et what
the political elfeet of our advance will
be. but It will cer'alnly be far reaching
Ii Austrla-Hupiary, and this year It Is
Improbable, If not Impossible, for the I
Gertiaus to send huge suiiport to the
Austrlans
sees I'fteel In the llnlkmis. ;
"The fall of fernowltz must have a I
Iirofonnd efTis't upon Rumania and In
tlie llalkan States These tlr-t weeks
hnve been extremely successful, but I
of our summer campaign. The Germans
may In a small way be suoessful berore
they are tlnaily defeated, but we shall,
I hope, be pressing the war against them
increasingly
"T.ie general situation has been fur
ther Improved by the Itrltlsh fleet's ac
tion." FRENCH VERDUN LOSS 165,000.
CnKiinllles I i to .lutie Set nt Thnl
I'iuuri' (ieriiiitn l.o IIS.OOO,
S,cl.U Corrwoniw, U, T.lB Scn. I
r.rvcvA. June 5 The l-'rench losses I
around Verdun In killed and wounded j
amount to approximately ii,a,i)iiu to
,,
date.
These losses have occurred on a front ;
which is not more than thirteen miles
In length. I
Iajnoon .lime 19.Slnce the begin-,
nine of the battle uf Verdun on Keb-
ruary 21 last the Germans have lost
about 415,000 rnen, it Is staled here,
Statements of prisoners, captureil docu-1
ments and other sources are the bases
of the estimate.
uirurnu irnii 'nVH.TIWTW PTAPT
M.Umtn BIVB riMjl.
I-'ood II IiiIm There Arm)' Mrnt
l uring I'm'tor) Is lltirneil,
!litflttl Cubit Am.iKcA to Tub Set.
l.oNPO.s, June 19. Dutch nnd Sw!m
reports describe food riots which took
plate In AI.-la-Cliapelle and .Munich on
Saturday. There were stiff lights with
the police, who quelled tho rioters atler
several chaiges. It Is Mated Hint the
crowd demonstrating In Munich clamored
for peace, denouncing the war.
The Meter Zcttuny says n big army
meat curing factory at Ilalberstadt
burned down Two million pounds of
canned beef and an enormous quantity
of unentitled meat were destroyed, the
Mier says. The fire Is said to have
been of Incendiary origin.
SINAL0A DECLARES WAR.
Itndlo I'rom lillnboat Coiiimntiilrr
Tells of fio rrnor's Action.
StN Dii:oo, Cal , .lune l!i A radio- ,
'groin frum Commander Kavanaugh of
IOC JiUllt'.'i. ,uii..-,nr., ,
I Ian. says that the Governor of the State
I of Slnaloa has declined war on the
Culled Statis.
' No further details of tin- alleged dec-
, laratlon of hostilities tveio given In the
message, which was directed to Admiral
W'lrislow of the I'acillc coast lleet here.
GERMANS TO RAISE REGIMENT.
Residents of SI. I I In
Kiiri'i' for Harder Mill)'.
Sr. I.ouih, Mo., Juno 19. A regiment
composed of the German residents of St.
I.ouls will bo raised Immediately and
equipped for service on tho border or In
Mexico, August J. Kertlg aiilinuncetl to
ilav lie said a prominent St, I.oulsan.
' V . . i.i ikii nun ...in. ...i. i. a. ...
Itlll oneren lino ."'" "'"''"'....... .. ,ui,.,. lin ll,,, reputnr
equip the raiment If It wa nee.iea tor
"Wo Germans wish to refulo the Im
pression that we wouM not be ready to
aid the United Htntes whenever tho call
for mllltnry service should he made,"
said FertlB, who has served a Meu
tenant In the Germany army.
NEW YORK, TUESDAY, JUNE 20, 1916.
NOTE REJECTING CARRANZA'S DEMANDS TO GO TO-DAY;
MILITIA CALL MAY BE MADE WAR TEXT BY FIRST CHIEF;
THIRTY-NINE STATES NOW MOBILIZING THEIR GUARD
Copyright American Irrss Aoclatlon. II I ' " 'fj!9Hm a h M I .
ALL STEPS TAKEN TO
MOVE STATE GUARD
I'rohlems for Officers.
Kvcn in Coiircutratinir
1(1.(100 Soldicr.s.
IX CAM 1 UK F0HK MONDAY
hlllzation plans which are to concentrate
lfi.non nien at Camp Whitman. Rougn-
keeiivje. In forj Monday In. a two hour
conference til" National Guard lenders
outlined stp ahirh began with 'a sum
moning last nisht of eery unit to Its nr.
moiy. Gen O'Ryan sent e.uti com
iiianib r throughout the State a telegram
directing the Immediate aKsn-mblape of
his legiment or company. He urdeted
t,,,lt ,. lt,n organization be recruited to
strength. All leavis of absence were
O i'H ellcl
Sl ty-nmih ReKlnunt has be... ..
deled to repoit at Heekni.ui by nines
i ig'i.t to start wliliiing Into s uitie
lhv soo .(ir -tl. (.an, ,rart. a coin
pany of engineers of the Twcht -sec
ond has been installing sanitation and
other facilities for a month In anticipa
tion of the scheduled July mobilization.
The entire Twenty-second will arrive at
Heekman with tN Slity-nlnth.
When the militiamen begin to concen
trate from all over the State at the end
of the' week Camp Wliltmiu will be in
proper condition to receive the New
York division.
I""" """""
In accord nice with the State Oonstl-
tutlunat rerpjlrement that a certain per-
(.,,n.aKP f tne guard be kept In the State
...
.. . .1H . t.rolect on aga nst'
at all times as ,ni ,.,r.,ie,i
riots four regiments win " ' 111 1 1
from the order to move to Heekman '
u probably will be the Tenth, (
, u ' m,v.flrth na Setenly. I
Twent) -third. SlxD-mm aim '
fourth regiments. I
, ,.r,,, ii,i,,iial company of ninety oi-
ilntvn flout all parts or ine siatc,
tic TS, OI.n . .
which had been under I ralnim. i
ninler training fm weeKsl
was sjillt UP to-day and the olllccrs were
, . , ,,.. u,...mis.
" lien O'Ryan emphasized to-day tlutt
u hit., mi elTort at speed would mark the
WIIIO iio'ii ',,.... ,1,,, . ,,moinil.
mobll ZJlloll prnceeniio..--i
' haVe ,een Instructed to Hike care
Cin ll". - ,.r fr.ltll ll M
that nolsidy be sunueniy loin .nm. -home
Nothing Is to be clone preclp -fatTy.
Kverybody will be given ample
imeNo llnlsh up "- La
nffitrs The General was in irequenc
com lunlcic't'ron with Got'. Whitman.
iVr-TheMJeJtt'a
ference of tho regular army.
"Half a million men in th will
hn eager to go to the border," sa d l.leut.
cnl IVanklln V. Ward. "Thousands
of 'Veguuir .rn.y nu n who have been
or nh ' " ' ,. , .oi utviirm lo us.
r'woni? haaliy 'trouble recruiting to
I W!:.rThersenfo"-ner army men will be more
valuable than tho militiamen who have
had even six months training."
i s.-rtlcr lrcnily llt'Ktin
Th National Guard has contracts
'. vrk (Vntral Railroad for
he tr ins'porlatlon of troops wherever
, As iruardsmen were called to
heir arniorles to-night they aro already
c nsldered In a statu of mobilization
V ey a e t,, ,,,, paid by Hie State until
, ustcied Into the Federal service, when
the State will bo reimbursed by ho
United Stales Government, Those of tho
in lltlameu who reported at their anno
r , to-night and found It necessary to
etum home wero given that permission.
It will b a few weeks after the troops
liavo leached Camp Whitman before they
avo been sufficiently hardened to Justify
transfer to tho bonier. It Is estimated
that ID00.O0O will be required to main
tain 1(1,000 men at tho concentration
camp for two weens.
The guailisineri in iiim
Slate will
'; ' , " A 7, ' Nev Vork nivlsion.
This Is Iho 'only Stale In the country
ihni hns a complete division. The Now
v,.ru unit consists of four brigades and
three regiments of const nrtlllery, far
over the requirement for a division.
The drawback to Immediate movement j
it, ii wtm a ii .it . j - ib. m y n i
I ' II 1 1 S1SW HI l Will
Onpvrleht bv I'nisrwnoil
t'n.tsrwooi
PREPARING FOR THE MOBILIZATION AT CAMP WHITMAN
"OVE A irroup of commanding officers of thu
New York Guard, photographed at Heekmnn
yesterday. (Jen. John F. O'Ryan is indicated by the
numeral I.ieut.-Col. R. L. Foster of the Twelfth
Infantry by 1, Col. C. II. Hitchcock of the First
Infantry by !! and Lieut. -Col. Franklin V. Ward,
Is the lack of sutllclent eiUlpment.
Thounii theie .oe .inns and ammunition
a plel.t) 111 Hi) org. iiiUatlous .no sadly in
waul of blankets, horses, cots, tc. I liese
itaiits will be 1','iiudled uulckly, rusll or
deis having been sent out to-day.
At the conciiis on of to-da)'s confer-I
ence Hie following statement w.n given
out b) l.leut.-Col. rr.inklln Ward. In
telligence olllcer:
"Tin biggest task in Hie country in
yonuectlon with the mohtl.zatioii of Ihu
National Guard of tlm I'lllted States Is
Hint lulling to the lot of Majot-Ucn.
j ( raj .m, eominaiidlug the division of
New ura uoop-.
........ . r .. -i t .
"V h lo most ot the states are con-
limited with the task of icsseiiibllng
(rn1 ,nm. , tuur hundred to a couple
()f tmlU!J,lmj oMeers and men Gen.
J l .n Is required to mobilize Iti.omi
lioo(., Including t,iy arm of the sc,--
t lev -infantry. Held artillery, catalry.
engineers, signal troops, llebl hospitals,
...... ...i ... .u.,i haken. arinured motor
i nauery aiiu wnguo ii.uns.
1 fe,. ..w.l.OU.. -. fi.ee.. nt llilu NliLiKTlli
'..., n,.. es'tabllshnieiit of a canin on
J" ni"oo.e .. iuur m n,..,.B...
i,(ti(j4 0f ,i motlel toitn, To lllustrnto
,,.. U. ,,f t. ,,r.ilih.ni of sueh ii inn-
. m.in.l, with its horses iin.l mules re-
. (,ir(., for Its working, about 320,000
' ".. ii .. .i. Ill I-. I. ,. a,.llv.
h.iiiuus ui mmi
, iim UK ater must be isitable. The
I 1. 1 l......l.uu It.. .l-U.lm.
Miller Jiiniiiein .ii.mi- iiiwi.-rn , i, .-,,. ,nb
of wells, the erection of tnukw and the
laying of about seven miles of pipe for
distribution throughout tho camp. This
woik is now under way at Camp Whit
man at Green Haven In Dutchess county,
where there Is ono company of the
Twenty-second Coiw of hmglneers on
duly lu charge of the work.
Problem of Miipl)iuK Kami,
"Some Idea of the magnitude of the
work Involved In establishing the mobili
zation camp may be gathered from the
following table of a few of the more Im
portant articles of food supply which
have been contracted for nnd which
cover a supply for two weeks only :
150,000 pounds of beef (75 tons), 200,000
pounds of Hour (100 tons), U,0,n00
pounds of potatoes (75 tons), 35,000
pounds of sugar, (17'i tons), 110,000
dozen eggs, 40,000 pounds of bacon
.1,. ....u. i n nun .m,i.,iiu ,.r iiuiri i vii
tons), 30,000 pounds of mutton (l!i' ! Into a mlxup. The captatra In
o s 12,000 pounds of butter (6 tons), their rooms were busy helping their
12 000 pounds of beans (6 tons), 10,000 "Hfon r. 'nulrment .and get
pounds of dried llsh (5 tons), 25,000
pounds of onions,
Hie Held bakery will turn out 15,000
pounds of bread dally. There will be
approximately 5,500 horses and mules.
Tho forage provided for these animals
for two weeks amounts to S40.000
pounds of oats (24,708 bushels), 400 tons
of hay and 12,000 pounds of rock salt.
"Arrangements for these vast quan
tities of suvplles as well as the neces
sary transportation of the troops are
being made by Col. Henry S. Stern
berger, chief quartermacter division,
National Guard.
"The order directing tho assembling
of tho troops In their armories to-night
at 8 o'clock was lsued by Gen. O'Ryan
to-day. The Slxty-jilnth Infantry will
be tho first to leave for the mobiliza
tion camp. Tho regiment will bo em
ployed to assist In the preparation of the
site to receive the other organizations
us they arrive, .uremia oi uu com-
mnndlng ofilcers at camp of l.utructlon
s i t V. M. to discuss tho various details
of oranlatlons."
Copyright, 1916. by Ifto Sun I'rlnl(itt7
CITY ARMORIES BUSTLING
! AS REGIMENTS ASSEMBLE
"Gallant 69th" and the 71st Are First to Gather Hun
dreds of Recruits Offer to Fill War Strength
Equipment Rush Causes Wild Scenes.
Ill' t'l II1UO is wen. iiii-mu iiru, ,..-
..... ... ' , .....
cre cut ehort, the start of )OUUK
high school and college graduates In
their chosen work was deferred, because
()f ..all ()f ttm.(. Sam to the cltlllans
. ,,f l"" "r 1 " lu citiii.m
of tlm country to take up arms. Mem-
hers of the National Guard and civilians
encer for s-rtice huriied to the ar-
inoneH in uic euj in iiii"i u me .
l ... M..., l.nvlitii l.t enlist lllle.1
hi m,ij
on bv 'the 'hundred In the various regl.
mental headuuarlers.
I Thin, the ntnuirles were bustline.
f bustling places all yesterday and far
, into the night. Col, Louis I). Conley of tho
n m. ...... i.ii. " f...,.l ,.u .. to. In.
gallant Slxty-iilnlli." famed as a light
Ine regiment, was among tho llrst to
gel the call to mobilise bis men at the
Lexington avenue armor) and await
orders. In the afternoon Col. William
G. Hates of the Seventy-tlrst, another
regiment with traditions of two wars,
got a call, and within three hours he
had his regiment assembled, Inspected
ii ml under orders.
The Sixty-ninth's urmory, at I.exliig.
ton avenue and Twenty-fifth street, wan
thronged with privates iiird more than
100 recruits. After Col. Conley had as
sembled bis staff at 11 o'clock for a
conference nnd then left them' lo hurry
lo I'cekskill for a talk with .Major.Gen.
O'Ryan the men who had receited the
call In ienirt nt the armory began to
pour In and lo overhaul their equipment.
Kciulpmrn t lit rrhauled.
There was Major Michael Lynch, who
has been connected with the Slxty
nluth for forty-five years, but as en
thusiastic ns a boy over the prospect of
' renuy ior asseiruny in s uciocic, r.acn
company room became a veritable Jum
ble of equipment as the day wore on.
Hlankets, field belts, aluminum plates,
knives and forks, haversacks were scat
leied over the floor.
Capt, It. I Cummlnga of Company II
stood In the midst of the Jumble greet
ing one man after another as they
rushed Into the room, saluted and then
made a dive for their lockers. The
enthusiastic greetings of th privates
mioii turned to yells of dismay us they
started to don their khaki uniforms,
"Cap'n, somebody stole my shirt rrom
my locker," "Cap'n, I ain't got any shoe
laces," "I Bay, Captain, have you got an
extra bit7 Mine's been swiped," were
some of tho cries that went up and every
private turned to the ruddy, smiling
Cantaln. who always maintained his
I cheerfulness and told the privates to go
Into his office and see what they could
. . . .
I "They need a mo her, every blessed
I one of them," said the Captain. "I've
i heard that ever alnce t o clock thla morn-
nvu
and i'tiMljifny Association.
Intelligence Officer of the Division, by 4. Others in
the line are Col. Klein, Tenth Regiment; Major
Hutchinson nnd Col. Foote, Fourteenth Regiment;
Col. Wolfe, Seventy-fourth Regiment, and Col.
Wadsworth. The photograph below shows a detail
of guardsmen starting from the I'cekskill camp for
Camp Whitman at Ucekman.
lug and there goe the nrt all for as
semhly now " u
At the sound of the bugle the upioar
iliei easel.
"Hurry up, bos," gently urged the
Captain, "you've got ten minutes now"
The men were untitling with Pelts,
fastening on then blanket rolls ana
scrambling In the pile of field, belts for
tlie nrtlcle bearing their number.
"Do we go down in our shirts or with
full equipment "" was the anxious query
put to capi. r.upeit Hughes, novelist.;
In chatge of a company In the adjoining
rooms.
"Never mind the equipment." an- I
rweied the Captain, who was busy strug
gling wun a rnn can of Irish names ami
tiylng lo get his men lo distinguish be
tween "IVticgati" and "Donnliiglon."
I'lesently the companies marched on
the Hour, some fully equipped, others In !
their shirt slietes, and etery compaii)
with a squ.nl of recruits. Just cnliMed. 1
trailing awkwardly behind. Hut the re-
crults got the cheers and Hie handclap-!
ping iroin mo iniong in tne galleries. A
ynun high school hoy. with a red carna
tion In his buttonhole and a handbag,
marched proudly on with Company A,
prepared to stay all night. More re
crultd Just from the ph)slcal examina
tion darted gladly on the door airl lined
up with the regiment they had selected
"We are Just making an Inspection
to-night," said Col. Conley. "We wiujt
to see how many men we hate, what
equipment we lack ami assemble the
men so that wo are ready when orders
come. The men will go homo to-night
under orders to report again to-morrow
night nt 8,"
It was explained that the regiment
expects to move to Heekman to-morrow
morning, and It Is possible that they
may be kept In the armory to-night
Athletes In the Scvf lit -llrst.
Hp In the Setenty first armory mure
than 100 men enlisted before noon. Hut
no orders for a gnieial assembly readied
Col. Hates until 4 :io In the afternoon.
Immediately the call to the officers and
the men was sent out and bv 7 :3ft tin.
men were pouring In, gleefully greeting!
ono nnother and jumping liil'o their mil-
forms.
There were Kid McCoy, ex-prlzefighter :
Hughle Ilonnhnn, champion marathon
runner of the Halted States, llonur
Haker, Kngllsh half mile champion.
Some of tho men did not answer tlie
cnll because they are at the front In
Vln.,.l.- ...III. II.. llfllluV. nH .....
r.i,. i.',. ...
member of the Sevent) -tlrst, has been all the available Vtllllary forces finn
wounded twice on tho French front, but here, leaving the cltlllans, "is theie an
sent a letter to one of his friends re-I enough for hanging the i ea i oniin s
eently announcing that he was ready for ! and clergymen, which W ad one ba
the front a third time, il here."
Many of tho officers hnve seen rer- 1 Curr.inza spoke lengthiH i ih '
Conlliiurd on Third Pagr,
temperature; light southy. wWMiW
Highest temperature yesterdaKjJagpiflfii
Detailed weathel, mall
U.S. FORCING WAR
CARRANZA ASSERTS!;
Firsl Chief a ml Olireiiitii De
liver Warlike Talks to
I'arailini: Populace.
l'riul t'ttbtf l)tiltcli tn.l'nr M n
.Mkxico City, June 20. The stieei
parades unit uianlfeitatlous of Indigna
tion at the "American aggressions" con
tinued to-d ly, tho public taking much
more heart In the situation than cs
t entity.
I'.iily this morning a gieat paiade of
students of all the (internment n hoo'.
including tho professional schools, tail
way men, mechanics and hundteds of
others, gathered with bands, cheering
Mexico, c'arr.uiza and olnegnu and i ty
ing "Death to AitiHtienns" It diw ill
in front of the National I'alace. where
'arratiza said In part
"Regaidlng the Intel nation il s.tua-
j lion, I have satlsfa. lion to lepoit to tou' " bo wile so illsposeil might will In
i conditions aien t ,, seuous as we Judged 1 '"I't-t u.ii .ictlon ;is ,i null, e f th
.testirda). Auiene.iii troops that i-.ossei
In at- M.iiauioi os reined alter a slight!
! skirmish ttlih the forces of Gen. Rleaut. !
,No new incidents ...etnieii til! now to
uggraviite the situation and I iepe.it it ts
not su serious as we thought at Hist
"It is llnoossible to tell toll what tile
outcome wilt he, for that depi mis upon
the i'lllted States, not 111311 us We
haven't a desiie to I' ing on wat, bill un
foitunately we ate forced Into an un
equal stiuggle. I m sure we all know how
t fullll our duty .mil we will all perish
luiore allowing our territory to be ion. j
qllercd
"If unhappily tear conns t,.u ate
young and probably will lite to tight!
on and it gain our ilidependein e in case'
It be temporal llv lost. Vouil reiiicm.a'r
we ale descendants of two great races, j
Spanish and Indian, who llrst n gained
independence from the Moors
utter1
nearly seven hundnd .wars striugl
Gen. Cniranza was ipi.tnl to-da
ill
an interview as saying .
"I hate ordered the liltllt.tr) le.ldeis
of our forces mar the bolder not to
penult Hi" fin ther pisslnu ,,t any
Ameilcau forcir Into Mexican i,in
lory "If they attempt to pass the) will be
att.uked by the Constitutionalist fours
Tin Instructions gltcii bv Gen Tretiiio
lo Hi n IVrshlug riot pi adtance futther
were Is-ueil bt me to the War Depart
ment, which traiisinllli d them to lieu.
Tretmo
Olircuoii l'nll of Honor.
Gi n Oliregoii said in pal :
"In all contests of honor the n iiies
lants tlrst take the measure oi thou
ii mis In order thai they may lie able to
light on equal term- If the Hinted
States deslies to defend Us honor un
questionably it should Hike the m
nur)iliir of men ns we n ite. and equnKy
armed, and tight on fields selected b
mutual i unseat.
"Hut Hie i'lllted States does riot in
tend to do til's. It designs to illjsli
us with biute loico and ditlle our soil
With the feel of tile Invalid llefoie
this prospect we are determined t,, sacri
fice the last drop of our blood to avoid it.
"It gltcs tne the greatest satisf.n turn
lo see tills attitude of Hie stllltlon for
III the noith as well as in the sontii'of
the republic all .Mexicans are agiecd to
sacrifice themselves
In fore tliev w ill '
submit to opptcssion '
llhregon also Haul that m
war bad Mexicans who soughl to i n ate
d llleultlcs foi the Gotei inueiit and the
cilllllt) would be plaicd In the tan
guard nf Hie light He as alw,i)S, he
said w.ih ready lu saciilhe hiinsclf fm
tho land ot his birth, and the present
was not the time for Mexicans to pi
their loyalt) to tlie Govri nnienl
protest
Ililess
I they woiked in a manner in i.itlft iheir
I 1 rotesliitlons
' ddresslug crowds this atlci noon. G. n
. 1 ""cgon said Hint lie had the satlsfi,
. Hon to aiinuutice that Caiiana had
given him permission t resign Iroin
' the Mlnlsti) of War to lead the fort is
......l.,Ut 11,., t l.t.,1 l.,!.,,U ill ll,. ...... I ..I
ii.. m.ii.i i,.. i, I I,.., ... .,i..Hhe Mcx.cin polls in ... In- n. o i.nit
rottfliiui .1 on .S'Koiid
and m uMlAtlK.'ific 1"
r - -
PRICE TWO CENTS.
1
Drat'tiuir of (iuavil for For
eign Service Feared
in Cniurress.
31 1 (MIT HE TAKEN AS
NOTICE OF INVASION
Anti-Anieriean Feelin- So
Hitter Two 31 ore Con
suls (iet Out.
,:.lllll) A 31 KIM CANS
STILL IN .MEXICO
Coventors of Sinulon anil
Yucatan Declare War
on I'liiteil States.
Washington, June 1?.- (fnc.,i ot
the American (loverninenl are await
ing with considerable, concern the ef
fect on the Mexican (internment of
- -
s action in c.illlng out
entile National Gn ird
of the country for settve on the Mexl
cm border
Mespite the fn.'t that the test of
the official c list makes it pin. II that
Its purpose Is tneiiiy to pi ovule for the
defence of Ameilc.in territory it .s re
garded as possible that I'airunza might
seize upon It as a .iretext foi ,i decl.ir.t
DKNOI'XCKD I lion of w.ir. ns was In Russian moblll-
valion of 11H.
I Thai tins I. .!.-.) entlic.lv
piMslble Is colic "h I by olticlals ill Mia
li'iht if their gi iu.ng contii't.ou t! it
t.'arranza's entlM- coiirrc of action In
leceiit weeks. Ivtt in en trained v.ltb
the Idea of for Inn a war with ih-t
I'lllted St lies as tin la-t expedient u
nmlnlng to him as a means of utilt;ti-r
the factions Hi Ale..ao liehlnd him
It Is because of tin ir ft.ir tnal this
might happen that mi ml i is of Con
gress were dubious ln-il.i) over the III
lerpiet.ttlon whkh migiit lie put on
an) ic-olutlon tthn-h migot p.is nu-
tlinliZlllg tile I'leslilem to ill.ll't th
N.it.onal i In. ii. I f,,r forng'i set let.
Notlet- of Intiilon.
It was inuiiteil nut that Can na.i
I oiwoiioo- ii irns in. eriiuieui H in-
vano .tiexidi on a l,u ge i,ii. anil in
tervene in lli.u i mint!)
Tho War 1 leiurttiient has in u 111-
,,'f iciall) uotllld tli.it two Si lies,
I Viic.it, in and Sinalo.i. nave declared
war on the 1'nltnl St.m s through their
1 ' 'tllnl s
(ill llle Inch, ot Uic ilefe.opiiien'a
which pie. ipit.itcd the caliiii'.' nut of
tho National Hiianl cnne news to
il a..- flnlil 1 1. it ll Mi'tli in .mil Ainelii'.in
-outers of a new niiiipli .it.u.i Hunt
ing a i l.i-!i between Ann limn blue
.'itiitets .iiui Mexicans it M.ivatl.in on
tho West coast of Mnii o
The pn.ssllnlitt nl tin- I n led S an-s
bliicUinllng nil Mexican pints ,n pro
tein nuns ami munitions, ir.ni'm;
Oiniuiz.i was fieri y dis, isMi
Srcrrtary l.iulng induati.l ! -i i the
that the rrpl.t to i 'ar i ill , - t.'i m.i.
into iinn liiding a v.nlali iw nt ho
Alliei Iciil funis Imp, Mi xr w.h In
seni to-niortou. at wh Ii 1 nn i will
Iv made piibhc Mill 'i i mm ,
inn si tin x li.) i it ii . . I i r- win , bo
lollonoil In irs, ,u hillg In M Xli' l
tilv it is iimb r -lo nl i' w.' be prt
snitiil to Mr Am do iidn who ui an
ciuaut tip'iit lo sl( ihr ms nt try
Tile ll pl.t W 111 lefllse I hi ., i 1 , !
i wlthdiau.il. gltuu a- i i asm ihr.
irieiit detiii'j, un tits ii k I', lionler
and the lalluie ol Uic ' ' i' i , . , la
I llol itn i- to slliiptess lii. - nl. I
will setcreh leblike tin ' il . Gov
eminent for ts liiu.nt.n i..i i ir -i f, .
go id faith ot tin l'i ti i S- ! ,1 i.l
sel'te Jiotli" again II. il I,. ' i ,. will
Hot be tt Itlhll an n i'i ' , 1 iii i ' t z i
l !o el lllin lit Ins ,), in-l , , . , ,o
lo pie-eitr nrdei hi Iii t ,,i s. i,.
I rar lor snictt nl ,,,noo,
tppn lieiisioo iiintliit i x i t nii-
ictn'jm the safctt uf ii,, .inn x i rl-
I i a i is s t .11 ii ,i tun i ml i a -1 on . .he
I nil" in Mexi.o , Adorn i , 'n-liv
ilia; priiilar I't' ili .in 'it in Ah xn n itas
sti.ni, 'v ii ere isinu, oMi in is . f i in. statu
I ii -it t on nt ile.iirut in. ii i were
lung talon io sail glial il i ie Ahum (cam
In Mix nt bctiuiil Knotted Winnings
in tl cm In le.ne the . oiiiiti t .
" was explallliil that. iesjMt,. die pus.
silnll.t of attail.s on these Americans
In the i,i Hal, It would luiile lo expect
an Vmeiiraii lotee to get to Mexico city
in li-s th.cn two mouths tune, or that
a foi.e of less (hail lonnfiii men could
leach i he i itv In Unit time Then, It
tt i nlisene.i. , ,w, old bn tun late
t the same time steps
taken as i.ipldlt as iiosslb'
e being
In send
east and
e .a Ink
! in mt and pat y tianspoits ,
t coast pill Is for the in p,
Hit: i If nut A un'! nan ,i tiit-e
Ik ,iL thesf points
is w h i nnglit
Sn i la' ,'u ot islmi is h, ,114 ii , .. i
snlity ol Hie A nii-i leans ,n .1 mm
Inieigneis at i'.'impico and l.ir ". pio
Irctlou ol the ml piopc!! ' - ; i i. Ap.
1 1 1 1 1 x 1 1 1 i.i 1 1 1 '.' (inn , ive, i. it us a ' T nn
,'ilin and tie tit it . s. Ii iritcii nn m his
been pat tlclll.ll 1 i micei lied 'ol t , - I. at
Ol tile 111 ll sl ,1,1 well- I ' Ol 1 1 it ,. I, I , ., t
11' It llli s Hat t I - ll, nt i time. I . I 'I i
ol lini "'I lie'tlg Used In I I till
I, lit t
It was ivpl.umd that if il si' mid b
conic o i .-Sill) etrnUl.il't In III. i. k me
1 1 in', an I a'uimmitioi, it'iin ii.n ing
i', Mrtir.llis rxi'rlltlnns inll.ll in made
ii tin . uf ot .1. 1 i i 1 , 1 1 i lit.- 0 i lug
l'i ," '
1' . .nn I lepal I nielli had tin 'on.
, ,, dai , n , eitmiK he maul-
f, . . . il In i is. bei ll s,, d to.
tin .Mexican po(nrl.ice r Gen Ttevllio
