T ' .
v ,
vmigm!iFSiti
i 'TFTr-. w
r
v,
rfrs
i
WEATHER FORECAST:
Fair Today and Tomorrow
(Full Report on Page Two.)
' NUMBER 8037.
SHARP REBUKE IS GIVEN TO CARRANZA
D. C. GUARD RECRUITING SCTS RECORD
"INSOLENCE" OF FIRST
CHIEF DENOUNCED IN
REPLY OF LANSING
Dc Facto Government is Charged With Fail
ure "To Meet Obligations" Demand to
Withdraw Troops is Refused U. S.
Warns of "Grave Consequence."
One of the sharpest communications ever addressed by
one government to another was handed' today to Eliseo
Arredondo, the Mexican ambassador-designate, by Secretary
of State Robert Lansing.
Intended as a reply to Carranza's note of May 22, de
manding an immediate withdrawal of the American troops
from Mexico, the communication, in the form of a direct
note to the secretary for foreign affairs of the Mexican gov
ernment, not only refuses the demand, but denounces the
failure of the Mexican government to meet its obligations
for the protection of American lives and property in Mexico
and along the border.
REBUKE ADMINISTERED TO CARRANZA.
A rebuke is administered for the "discourteous tone
and temper" of the Carranza note, and the communication
closes with the following abrupt statement of the American
Government's intentions:
In conclusion, the Mexican government invites the United
States to support its "assurances of friendship with real and ef
fective acts" which "can be no other than the immediate with
drawal of the American troops."
For the reasons I have herein fully set forth, this request of
the dc facto government cannot now be entertained.
The United States has not sought the duty which has been
forced upon it of pursuing bandits who under fundamental prin
ciples of municipal and international law, ought to be pursued
and arrested and punished by Mexican authorities.
Whenever Mexico will assume and effectively exercise that
lesponsibllity the United States, as it has many times before
publicly declared, will be glad to have this obligation fulfilled by
the de facto government of Mexico.
If, on the contrary, the dc facto government is pleased to Ig
nore this obligation and to believe that "in case of a refusal to
retire these troops there is no further recourse than to defend its
territory by an appeal to arms," the Government of the United
States would surely be lacking in sincerity and friendship if it did
not frankly impress upon the de facto government that the exe
cution of this threat will lead to the gravest consequences.
While this Government would deeply regret such a result, it
cannot recede from its settled determination to maintain its na
tional rights and to perform its full duty in preventing further
Invasions of the territory of the United States and in removing
the peril which Americans along the international boundary
have borne so long with patience and forbearance.
The American reply, which is printed in full below,
was delivered 'in person to Mr. Arredondo about 10 o'clock
this morning and was given out immediately for publication
in the newspapers of this country.
TEXT OF THE NOTE.
The Secrete, y of State to the Secretary
of Foreign Relations of the de facto
Oovemment of Mexico.
Department of State,
Washington. June :o, 191.
Sir: I have read your communication,
which was delivered to me on Mav 22.
1916, under instructions of tho Chief
Executive of tho de facto government of
Mexico, on the subject of tho prcsenco
of American troops In Mexican terri
tory and 1 would be wanting In candor
if I did not bctore making answer to
the allegations of fact and the conclu
sions reached fc your Government ex
press the surprue and regret which nave
been caused this Government by the dis
courteous tone and temper of this last
communication of the de facto govern
ment of Mexico.
The Government of the United States
has viewed with deep concern and in
creasing Disappointment tho progress of
the revolution in Mexico. Continuous
bloodshed and disorders have marked
Its progras.
For three yeais the Mexican Republic
has been torn with civil strlfo: the
lives of Amerlcnnr and other aliens
have been sacrificed; nt properties
developed by American cuplt.il mid en
terprlne have ben destroyed or ren
dered non-productive; bandits linvo
tern permlttod to roam at will thrr.tmn
tho territory contiguous to the United
fctstes uiul ta ctp, without punhhrmint
or without effective attempt nt punlxli
ment. tho propoitv of American, while
the lives of citizens of the United Stiilcn
who ventured to rem.iln In Moitcvi
territory or to return there to protect
their Interest ln.ve been taken, and m
rcrr.e cases onrtnrouity taken, aud the-
HielUahtottm tete
murderers have neither been
bonded nor brourrht to justice.
appre-
It would be difficult to find In the
annals of tbo history of Mexico condi
tions more deplorable than thoro which
have existed there during these recent
years or civil war.
It would be tedious to recount in
stance after Instance, outrage after
outrage, ntrocltv after atrocity, to lllua-
iraia me true nature, ana extent or the
widespread conditions of lawlessness
ana woience wnich nave nrevat ed,
During the past nine months n par
ticular, the frontier of the United
States along the lower Rto Grande has
been thrown Into a state of constant ap-
prenenaron ana turmoil Decause or rre
quent and sudden Incursions into Airier
lean territory and depredations and
murders on American soil by Mexican
bandits, who have taken the lives and
destroyed the property of American
citizens, sometimes carrying American
citizens across ine international boun
dary with the booty seized.
American garrisons have been at
tacked nt night, American soldiers
killed and their equipment and horses
stolen; American ranches have been
raided, property stolen and destroyed,
and American trains wrecked and plun
dered. The attackH on Brownsville,
Red House Ferry, Progreso Poatofnce,
and Las Peladas, all occurring during
September last, are typical. In these
attacks on American territory. Cnrrnn,
data adherents', and even Carranclsta
soldiers took part in the looting, burn
ing, and killing.
Not only were these murders char
acterized by ruthless brutality, but
uncivilised acts of mutilation were
(Continued on Second Page.)
WASHINGTON,
DISTRICT MILITIA OFFICERS
itES1 m&k "atH Bt wSmiM LLLV. Vw. !V:&fonM
BBBBBBBBS. BHHHHm HUBBUB !8IBBiiBBBBBBH HBBBBBBBBBBBK i,L: mS1SIBBBBBBH
BBhu' '"4..BM1 BBV VJBW HH tviBH
BBW!' Jy r'BBBl BBBWmjlBWtBWBWBB BVB vWBBBBBB
BWBWAv.- 'BBT-BWaPi BWBWBBVZItlssBWBWBWai BWBwMV ' 'BwBWBWBWbI
BBBBvLaiiBaBBEBBBvi BBBBvfUBBBBBl BBm. BBBBBV
BBB'MBBBBBWi I BBBBViBBBBBl BBBriBBBBBBa
BBBJ iBBBBBWA .l HBWbWBBBM BBBBBWBBBBBBBBBBBI
bbWsbbbkJ BIAVfllBH bPOMbVbH
vt'??! I BbHISHbIbH WShfWS&w
Nk:!f' J? Hb9bbbH WW
-. & IBHBWBWBWBWBWBWBal sL ? 'Lds
LIEUT. V. H. DENT,
Acting adjutant, Third Battalion,
Third Infantry
I0TIC0UT
IN
Special Train Is Arranged For
to Carry American Nationals
to Vera Cruz.
The first anti-foreign demon
stration in Mexico City was re
ported officially here today. A
State Department message re
vealed that parades were .in
progress, though the demonstra
tion had taken no serious turn.
Arrangements have been
made for a special train to take
a number of Americans from
Mexico City today or tomorrow.
MEXICO CITY, June 20. The Mexican
capital awaited today with tense Inter
est the arrival of the American note.
Arrangement lravo beon mado to flash
a digest of Its contents to all Important
cities of the republic aa soon as It can
bo translated.
Arrangeoienta also are being made to
day for a spec!' train to carrv all
Americana who choose to leave for
Vera Cruz. It is estimated that be
tween 600 and 700 Americans now ore
here.
No responsible official would com
ment on advance reports of tho nature
of President Wilson's reply. Officials
generally expressed the hope that the
United Btutes would meet fully General
Carranza'- demsn for a withdrawal of
the American forces, or at least express
a willingness to negotiate for their early
retirement.
Publication of lengthy dispatches re
porting that President Wilson mobil
ized the mllltla only to gi'ard the bor
der has crentnd a good InrprcHslon here.
On tho other hand, certain Mexican
leaderr havo openlv questioned Presi
dent Wilson's good faith, asserting that
the presence of heavy artillery with
General Pershing's armv Is proof that
the object of the expedition was not the
suppression of bandltrv. but tbo con
quest of Mex'ean territory.
Patriotic ilpmonstrotlonc begun nt
noonvesterdav continued until nn carlv
hour lodav. Tho military patrolled the
principal strceto to prevent anti-foreign
outbreaks. ....
Laborers, employers, clericals, stu
dents, and thousands of women and
children participated In a great parade
ending before tho natlonul palace.
Addressing a preat gathering In the
afternoon. General Carranza reltoratoJ
his nrevlous assertions that ho did not
seek war with tho United Stales, but
would not refuse to tight If war was
thrust upon him.
Virginian to Be
Patent Official
President Wilson today appointed
Robert F. Whitehead, of Virginia, to
be first assistant commissioner of pat'
ents.
Ho also mado the following appoint
montst
To be assistant commissioner of pat
ents francla W. 11. ciay, or ruts
burgh. Pa.
To be examiners-In-chief in the Pat
ent Office Samuel E. Kouts, ot North
Carolina, and James T, Newton, ot
Georgia.
General Aleshlre Is reappointed quar
termaster general with rank ot major
general, ana a long list ot army ap
polntments la announced.
HOI
BURST
MEXICAN CAPITAL
TUESDAY 'EVENING, JUNE 20. 1910.
MAJOR HARRY COOPE,
Adjutant general.
Anticipating an Early Departure
Trio of Guardsmen Wed Be
fore Going to Camp.
Mnra Joined with Cupid to hasten
couplos of Wnahlngtonlans to Hymen's
altar.
Two of the. wedding knots wero to
be tied In Washington and tho third
was tied in naltlmorc. In each case
tho man was a soldier under orders to
take to tho field la obedlenre to Presi
ded Wilson's call for to national
gunrd,
Ernest S. Shipley, twenty-one years
old, of 3400 Albemarle street south
east, appeared at Colonel Kroll's mar
riage license ofllco today In uniform
and asked for a license. He named as
his brlde-to-ho Miss Florence Mario
Woodworth, twenty years old, of 1162
Talbert street southeast. Tho Rev.
Verona A. Lonler, a Methodist min
ister, was named as tho officiating
clergyman.
Anticipating his early departure to
tho border, Bergcnnt Oregory Cipriani,
employed at tho Waller Heed Hospital,
has taken unto himself a wife In the
person of PiOlle A. Gavin, og axs Four
teenth street. The prospective brldo ob
tained the llccnso yesterday in Balti
more. Tho second Dlstllct militiaman to ob
tain a marrlare license was James L.
Taylor, a member of tho First Sepa
rata Battalion, who announced his In
tention of wedding Edith Miluiirn be
fore goliut to tho concentration camp
with tho District militia.
First Battalion ot
Engineers Entrains
Major W. P. Wooten, at Head of
Detail of 350 Men Who
Go to Mexico.
The First Battalion of Engineers, 350
strong, commanded by Major W. P.
Wooten, entrained from Washington
Barracks this afternoon for Fort Sam
lloi'ston, Tex., for service In the Mexi
can campaign.
The nontoo brldgo equipment left
Washington Sut.doy in two freWrt train
loadd. The engineers will reach Fort
bam Houston before tho equipment.
The engineers from Washington Bar
racks will form the neucleus cf the
first regiment of engineers, which Is
to l)o organized under tho new army
reorganization law. Col. MaBon Pat
rick, now at Detroit, will commahd the
regiment. Another regiment of engi
neers will be formed of which Col.
Georgo .Inn, now at Philadelphia, will
be commanding officer. A third regi
ment of engineers will be formed in the
Philippines.
Brig. Gen. E. W. Hine to
Lead New Jersey Militia
TRENTON, N. J., Juno 26. Oovorndr
Fielder this afternoon designated
Iirlg.-Gen. Edwin W. Hlne, of New
ark, to command. Now Jersey's bri
gade or Militia ordered mobilized for
possible MoxlcAn border duty.
He Is to report at Hea Girt by 11
tomorrow morning.
MAY GO TO BORDER;
THREE MEN MARRY
Photo by Duck.
MAJOR ALEXANDER SUMMERS,
Commanding Third Battalion, Third
Infantry.
DELAY IN FUN 10
FEDERALIZE Mil
Believed Passage, of Foreign
Service Resolution Now
Would Cause -Misconception.
Tho Mexican situation took a more
favorable turn at the Capitol today.
A delay in plans to put through Con
gress a resolution authorizing tho
President to draft tha national guard
for foreign service, was announced by
Chairman James Hay. of the House
committee on Military Affairs. Mr.
Hay said this resolution, which Is be
ing prepared at the War Department,
"will not be offered for a week or ten
days."
Several reason aro understood to
underline the switch in program. The
decision not to Jam through such a
resolution at this time material!
lessened the tension at the Capitol over
the Mexican situation.
It Indicates that tho Administration
la- hopeful of avoiding trouble at least
for the present, and that until tho
situation becomes more critical the na
tional guard may mnhliize without
prospect of a quick shift across tho
border.
Feared Misconstruction.
It is also understood that Mr. Hay
and tho War Department officials de
cided that the hurried passage of such
a resolution would bo misconstrued both
In this country and Mexico and might
be regarded as almost tantamount to a
declaration of war.
Adoption of such a resolution ten days
henco may not be attended by the ex
citement and discussion that would en
sue at this critical period.
The language of the new army organ
isation act, which passed this month,
lends difficulty to the adoption of such a
resolution at this time.
TIia Villi Im an A.4A.f t.- t .u-
. 7. v . "u,ulu nn" . mo reso
lution were to past at this Juncture, the
amuMiiun wuura do mat me nation
was at war. The law provides for tho
?J.att..ot thfl nlHtla for such service
"far the norlnd of h n
Inasmuch as this country Is not at war
with Mexico, and hopes to avoid war.the
language referred to presents an unex
pected complication, and cause for de-
The New Army Law.
Mr. Hoy said the resolution had. not
vet been received from the War Tti
partment. The new army law relating to the
draft of Iho national guar "for the
pe-lnd of the war," reads in part:
"Section ill. National guard when
drafted Into Federal service when
Congress nhalt have authorized the use
of the armed land forces of the United
States, for any purpose requiring the
use of troops In excess of thoie of He
regular army, the President may, under
such regulations. Including such physi
cal examination, as he may prescril-e,
draft into the military service of the
Unttod States, to nerve therein for the
period of the war unless sooner dis
charged, any or all members of the
national guard and of tha national
guard reserve
"All persons so drafted shall, from
tho dato of their draft, stand discharged
from the mllltla, and shall from said
date be subject to such laws and regu
lations for the government of the army
of the United States as may rw appli
cable to members of the volunteer
army, and shall be embodied In o: ioni
zations corresponding as far ns prac
ticable to those of tho regular army
or shall he otherwise assigned a the
President may direct."
EAGER ROOKIES JOIN
HERE AT RATE OF ONE
EVERY TWO MINUTES
Parade To Ft. Myer Today Called Off Because
of Delay in Laying Out Quarters Camp
Ready Tomorrow Guardsmen Await
Mobilization Call.
SAN ANTONIO, Tex., June 20. General Fun
aton today wired the War Department for a number
of militia regiments to report to the border at once. '
He declined to state the exact number requested, but it
was believed to be 65,000.
Enlistment of a new soldier every two minutes was the
rate at which recruiting for the District national guard con
tinued today. More than 100 "rookies" were added to the
ranks in the four hours preceding noon and when the clocks
sounded midday there was a line of waiting.
More than fifty men were received at the L street
armory of the Third Infantry Regiment, while at the First
'street. headquarters of the Signal Corps, the cavalry troop,
and other organizations, a similar number was enlisted.
In other words the recruits were enrolled as quickly as
the officers in charge could ply the necessary questions and
make out the required papers.
Throughout the entire morning and early afternoon
the corps of doctors and surgeons connected with the militia
was kept busy examining the embryo soldiery. The men
enlisting today are noticeably of a serious bent. While an
enthusiasm prevails it is of a quiet, dignified charac jr, and
the recruits are of a higher type than in former times.
Inability to get the camp site at Fort Myer in perfect
sanitary condition in time has necessitated a postponement
of the formal mobilization of the District guardsmen.
The guardsmen themselves are ready and waiting. So
far as the personnel of the organization and equipment goes
there is no hitch, and tomorrow afternoon they will line up
in full force and parade through the city with band playing
and colors flying.
Tomorrow evening they will be part of a garrison of
United States soldiers and will be United States troops as
soon as they can be properly mustered into the service.
Capt. Horace P. Hobbs, U. S. A., inspector-instructor
of infantry for the District, will be named in a War Depart
ment order to be issued today or tomorrow as mustering
officer and will have charge of receiving of the guardsmen
into the service of the country.
ONLY A FEW ARE REJECTED.
Only about 20 rcr cent of the appli
cants re being "turned down" by tha
doctors on account of physical defects
and deficiency.
Adverse reports of the doctors usually
announced bv an Informal I'jdpatlve
shake of the hood caused seilWl pa
thetic asper.Is from would-be 'soldiers
during the day,
"Please, doctor, pass me," went up
from more hau one nrdent patriot us
physicians discovered weak noarts and
ether defects.
One particularly atliletlc-looklnc re
cruit had iut about d'.clded that he
hod passed when 'he doctors discovered
that his virion ns defoctlve.
"But I can wear glasses it's only a
temporary weakness," he pleaded. "I
want to go with the rest."
His plea was unavailing, however, and
ho left the armory declaring that he
would leave no stone unturned to have
the defect In his vision waived.
The recruiting was done today at the
respective headquarters ot the differ
ent organizations instead of the sta
tion in Pennsylvania avenue northwest,
between Twelfth and Thirteenth streets
northwest.
20 Tons of Stores at Camp.
With the arrival of the naval mllltla
cruiser Sylvia from Colonial ueacn
shortly before noon today with the
quartermaster's stores for the camp at
Fort Myer, the rlnal equipment of the
camp site was received by Major Alfred
P. Itobblns. camp quartermaster.
Tho hauling of the thousands of feet!
or iron piping ror the water supply
and the materials for the various tem
porary buildings for the camp, com
menced Immediately on the arrival of
the Gylvla. Twenty tons of stores wtre
HOME
EDITTON
PBICE ONE CENT.
brought up by Uout. Comdr. H. B.
Brummett and his men from Colonial
lleaoh.
All of this material was hauled to
the camp site this afternoon.
At 6 o'clock this morning the haul
ing of tho baggage and stores ror tho
camp commenced under the charge or
Major Itobblns.
At the s.ime time details of twenty
onllsten men from the Third Infantry,
three from the cavalry, thrco from the
Signal Corps, -jnd three from A-ieh bat
tery of Held rtlllrry. reported to Capt.
v M. Ncvlls st the camp alto. To
gether with twentv laborers hired by
the quartermaster's department, these
men wero set to work preparing tho
camp.
Great Care in Sanitation.
The health of the men Is the big Is
sue in a camn of this tort, -nd no
chances will be taken by tho Medical
forrs until cvory 'ectlon of the ground
has been clo.urcd and proper arrange
ments mado for water, etc., for tha
men. Pipe lines are being laid to each
comnanv street, which run oast and
west. There will be a faucet nt tho
end of coch streot for tho water. Itv
1h the work of laying the plpo for this
which lias taken a longer tlmo than
was exported.
Guardsmen Ready for Call.
The guardsmen are all ready to go
Into camp the Instant the call comes.
They could havo marched out of their
armories at any time after 10 o'clock
this morning completely equipped for
the field. In the hands of every soldier
is the entire equipment for field service.
At 10 o'clock word, was received at
tiiailnlinvldiia flint t. a . il
..u.UU,.v,o Mi .,. uuuj ui mo rirst
street armory and the troops of the
First Separate Battalion wero ready to
Fullam. of the Third In
fantry, reported bis organization in
readiness at an early hour. Tho camp
c
f
-I
