4' iy
mm i
WEATHER
MARKETS
ARIZONA Generally
fair.
NEW YORK CITY
Average price cf cop
per for week ending
June 14, 27..04.
Associated Press Special Leased Wire Service.
VOL. 19, NO. 20.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, TUESDAY MORNING, JUNE 20, 1916.
U. 5. SULDRSHi i m see
pi acu uiiTU OH TEXIISTOii
ULnUII Willi
i I AN
TROOPS
Sesmen Of Gunboat Annapo
lis Land And Engage De
Factos, And Two U. S. Of
ficers Reported Captured
AMERICANS ARE
LATER RELEASED
Score Of U. S. Warships Onj
West Coast Are Slipping
Down Toward Seat Of Lat-;
est Trouble
(By Review Leased Wire.)
WASHINGTON, June 19. A clash
between Carranza soldiers and Amer
ican seamen from the gunboat Ann-j
apolis at Mazatlan was called to thej
attention of the Washington govern-j
ment today by unnerai variain.
ambassador with a request -that in
view of the tense situation no men
be landed in Mexico from American ,
warships under any circumstances.
Officers Captured.
The incident which occurred jes- . . IJlfJmatum Eauiva-
terday resulted in casualties on both At Least Ultimatum tquiva
sides .and in the capture by the Mexi- lent Is Issued, rollowing
csns of two American officers, who,
urter an explanation were releasee
according to the report, presented by
the ambassador. A dispatch front
Winslow, of the Pacific fleet, announc
ing canture of the men made no men
tion or their release, but officials as
sumed it had occurred after the mes
sp.Ce was sent.
One Sailor Injured
1 ' j
American lTijureu
Mate I. M. Laughter. !
Poats wain's
whom the admiral reponea waB;o.u-,
"grovely wounded."
grVI-l .UUIluru, ;
Admiral Winslow sent only a brief ,
ocount of the Incident, and navy de-1
account
pirtment officials immediately re-
' - . datoiloil ponnrt fjlte
; m T, Za not been received
THLZ theV was'no inUmation
tat Z : ambassador's reouest would
-it" in anv wav the administration's
' r an. Amrt. ans in
Plans for protecting Amert ans n
Mexican cof
-st towns, which wouia
yiroive senomg "".
f-ckets ashore to bring off refugees
should any emenrencv require it
wr,nT, "'""'
More than . score of An.erican w.r j
vessels alr-ady are in Mlcn a l ,
ters. on route there, or being held in ,
rMdiness to ?0 s refugee ships.
Pacific Fleet Moving.
SAN DIEGO. Cal June 19 tt vised all Americans in the vicinity of
cruisers Colorado and Pittsburgh, the Mazat,an Vi as soon as possible,
latter the flagship of Rear Admiral ' hQat from tne wp veg8e, contajninK
Fullam. commander of the Pacific re-, Enslf;n Q Q Kessing, Paymaster An
srve fleet, will sil tomorrow to join drfw Mowat and a number of blue
the ships under Admiral Winslow. ! 8ckpts apnroached the wharf. Ensign
According to advices here. thf cruis- KegRins be(ng under orders from
er Maryland will steam from Bremer-; commander Kavanaugh to arrange
ton. Washington .tomorrow morning wlth thp Mex!can authorities to get
direct to the lower coast. The cruiser . Americans.
Pouth Dakota now in dry dock at
Prererton .also, wni be released to- the Mexicans opened fire on the sail
morrow for duty in southern waters. ; ors and Boatswain Mate I. M. Laugh
The protected cruiser Milwaukee ter Was seriously w'junded. The
and the destroyer Stewart are expect- Americans returned the fire and as
ed to receive orders tomorrow to pro- far as known, six Mexicans were
ceed south. Including ships now in either killed or wounded. Earlier re
Mexican waters. Admirals Winslow' : portg that a drunken Japanese started
and Fullam will have a fleet of 17 : tne trouble are not borne out in re
cniisers. gunboats and destroyers for .ports received here. Ensign Kessing
whatever duty they may be required. !amj Paymaster Mowat were taken
That Admiral Winslow contemplates !
landing a force of bluejackets and later were released on demands pre
irarines on Mexican soil in an emer- ! sen ted to Flores by Commander Kav
gency was indicated today by the fact I anaugh.
that officers and sailors of shins own-1
ne motorcycles "were requested to j
brine them aboard. It was stated that j NEED MUNITIONS MEN
Admiral Winslow wanted a motorcy-j MORE AT HOME
cle squadron for scouting purposes. NEW YORK. June 19. Howard E.
if he found it necessary to land blue- ! Coffin, chairman of lite Industrial Pre-
jackets.
GENERAL BELL TALKS nounced today that he was going to
TO SALT LAKE CADETS ! call the attention of the war depart
SALT LAKE. June 19. General J. i-ment to the inadvisability of calling
Franklin Bell, commanding the West-i for military duty-skilled workmen,
ern Department of the army addressed w.o were engaged in industrial plants
a large gathering of business men this manufacturing war muitious.
evening in connection with the citi
zens military training camp at Salt ...
Lake. He declined to express himself 4 DROWN AT JOPLIN
regarding the Mexican situation. I JOPLIN. Mo.. June 19. Four men
j were drowned and damage estimated
YAQUIS 60 MILES FROM DOUGLAS t 1500.000 was done here by floods
. , , . . .. ftoday following a rainfall of 5.75 in.
DOUGLAS. June 19. The tense sit-(
uatlon tonight was given added gravi-;
ty by the report reaching here from
Calabesas a station on the Nacozari
railroad, sixty miles south of Douglas,
that a large party of Yaqui Indians
had been located in that vicinity to
day. General Calles was informed of this
discovery tonight and is understood
to have given orders for troop move
ments to cover the newest danger men
tlistricL 1
(By Review Leased Wire.)
SAN ANTONIO, June 19. Mex
ican government troops were re
ported tonight to be marching to
ward Del Rio, a borde rtown about
100 miles up the Rio Grande from
Eagle Pass, with the announced
intention of attacking the Ameri
cans there.
This information was the most
notable bit of evidence indicating
the attitude of the de facto gov
ernment that reached General
Funston today.
YALE CREW DISRUPTED
BY MILITIA CALL
NEW HAVEN. Conn., June
19. The order of the mobiliza-
tion of the Yale battalion of the
Tenth Militia Field Artillery
Connecticut National Guard, is-
sued today, threatened the can-
epilation of the Yale-Harvard
crew race scheduled for next
Friday at New London. T.'ie
matter was adjusted by the
grant of a temporary leave of
absence to members of the
Yale crew; who are enlisted in
the battalion.
' 4 - .ft
Clash With U. S. Seamen
At Mazatlan
(By Review Leased Wire.)
SAN DIEGO, Junel9. An ultima
tum amounting practically to a declar
ation of war against tne unitea
: States was served Sunda yon Com- ,
.o,iD, i,th.,r fi Kavannneh nf the
--
Kimboat Annapo by General Flares.
sent from the AnnajAilis at Mazatlan j
WDEUEOBY
OHO
eiiuinj !
i n nn
I
. , , , . A ,1 , ! pn t . ----- -
and received here today by Admiral , zaH tonjgnt witn no Americans and
Winslow, commander in chief of tne,ther forejgn pmpioyes of the Mode
Pacific fleet.
Forbade Departures.
Owing to the low-powered radio set
of the Annans, difficulty has been
experienced in communicating with
the gunboat, but enough facts have
come through to indicate that General
hostile stand
- " , -.-. TiTi.
rpflI8a, to permit Americans to leave
Mizatlan that resulted. in the clash
Sunday between bluejackets Vf the
Annapolis and Mexicans. character-
J carranza soldiers. The exact
8ubsUnce of his uIOlnatnn- ha8 not
been refeivpd
kp(.nriune . thP renorts received.
, ' the commander of the Annapolis ad
without provocation. It is reported, j
prit'jners and sent to the fortress, but i
paredness committee of the Naval Con
suiting board of the United States an-
MACHINE GUNS JOIN
DOUGLAS. June 19. Com
pany ('.. of Tempe, the machine
gun platoon and band of the
First Arizona Infantry were
mustered into the federal ser
vice today, cornpletlng the reffi-
in;
OF DEL Rill
It was brought to the bonier by a
Mexican who said the force was 1.50U ;
strong- According to his rejjrt. the
Mexican troops said they intended to
attack the Americans tonight r to
morrow night.
It was learned late fjday they were
about forty miles south of Del Rio.
Col. Frank Sibley, of the Fourteenth
Cavalry, who commanded the expedi-;
tion that entered MexlC) after the'
Glenn Springs raid, is in command at ;
Del Rio.
OFFERS AERIAL CORPS
SAX FRANCISCO. June 19.
The Pacific Aero Club tele
graphed Adjutant General C.
W,. Thomas, of the California
state militia, today an offer of
eight aeroplanes, three haloons
and t.'ie immediate services of
three aviators.
Hundreds Leave Cananea and
AMERICANS ARE
i n rrinn rnnnn
tLttlHb rltUNl
sop
Nacozari By Train, Auto ' 1 Jvasimngton. J,mei9 -Genera.
A J Af t ft A J f( SAN ANTONIO, June 19. While 7"unston reported tonight that quiet
And AlOOt Ull Advice KJl jno.ooo members of the militia were ' prevailed at Matamoras, where con
U. S. Consuls .being nrObilized today. General Funs- siderable disorder followed the cross-
.,ton anxiously studied the border, forjing of Major Anderson's cavalry
any indication of hostility on the part troops Saturday.
(By Review Leased Wire.? lDf Carranza's troops. j Fleet Leaves
DOUGLAS, June 20. Approximate- Army tofheers along the Rio Grande ! SAN DIEGO, June 19. The cruiser
ly one hundred Americans, including fonn Brownsville to El Paso observed San P'S0- flagship of the Pacific fleet
about twenty women and children, ar- w-hat they could concerning the- move- witn Admiral Cameron R. Winslow on
nvea nere at iweive imny-uve ims
morning from Nacozari. The trip was
without incident, coming as the finale
to two days of extreme stress. .
nvea nere at iweive imny-uve mis
DOUGIS, Ariz., June 19.-
-The
special train bringing, approximately
i.n,iH in.oririns frnm Nai iv
-
south of here ,
las. leu Aacozari at o ciock lonigni.
A 8peciai train will leave Naco-
zuma Copper Company and a few
other miners aboard it and. according tp movements or Mexican troops in-i WASHINGTON, June 19 The fol
to the expectations of the company Hcate the adoption of a plan not t owinf, iisl cf American war vessels
management, should reach Douglas maintain, heavy garrisons at border, , Mexil.an waters. enroute there or
shortly after midnight. . Points hut to hold the bulk of thelheld ,n rea(uneSS ,o go was given out
This move was decided upon as a "order a""' hjme tlles south of the , tfMiay by the navy department based
precautionary step, according to the
management of the company. Condi
tions in Nacozari were quiet today.
Miey said. However, a feeling of hos
for
tility nn the nnrt nf Mexicans
Americans is becoming more . vident
with each day and by removing em-' werf fheld ' thousand or six thou- erulsPr Salem, enroute Guantanamo to
ploves at this time a clash may be n.l troops. The garrison at Laredo Tampico: Transport Hancock. en-
averted I toI,,Bnt was ,es-s tnan i-000- At Pied- route San Domingo to Vera Cruz, and
' . ras Negras. the Mexican town op- t'ree destroyers enroute Key West to
Leaving Cananea. I posite Eagle Pass, the Mexican gar- Vera Cruz.
It is also reported here on good au- rison has been busy leaving, all day. West Coast Gunboat Annapolis at
thority that American employes of the Tonight a considerable force yet re-. Mazatlan; gunboat Yorktown and sup
mines and smelters in Cananea will inajned but the larger part had moved ply ship Glacier at Topolobamp:
come to the border at Naco tonight or to points south, where they were in- cruiser Cleveland at Guaymas; cruiser
early in the morning. 'corporated with other bodies of trt'jps. Albany at Mazatlan and four destroy-
A telegram from W. M. Ju!i?.n. Cni- before leaving Piedras Negras. the vrs held in readiness at San Diego,
ted States consular agent that Cana-. Mexicans dismantled the machine and transport Buffalo enroute to Maz-
nea. today said: : shops, moving large quantities of the atlan.
"Local conditions here are again material to the interior
normal. General Calles issued a cir- j Strong Near Juarez.
cular today calling on all citizens to' The concentration of heavy forces Bulgarian-Roumanian border has
respect the rights and safety of for
(Continued on page two)
Arrival of Wet Goods Brings Smile That
Won't Come Off; Is Despair of Bootleggers
For the first time since December 'cussed in Arizona since the celebrated The subterranean routes of introduc-
31, 1914. the WellH Fargo Express '"personal use" decision or tne su- ,jon between Rodeo and the District
Company, which means all of the preme court. Following the court de- jn (hp Sof,ale) n 1ar,
railroad companies in the state of cision iinnouncement was made by the ()(. rjj,ona w,j reCeive very little
Arizona .yesterday carried "personal , railroad companies that they would nBtr,)neaP' Bnd ,ne autonionile as a
use III llie tuy t. iiiurr nuu iiicimil accepi peinuuni une ur an; umri
warren uistnci. a inauer oi iwen-j class or liquor siupmenrs inro jr-ty-five
shipments of liquor entered i zona. Then, when it became known
the company's offices in this city and j that Schiller Brothers proposed to
in i.oweii. unaer tne provisions oi :
the recent federal court decision. ! a hurried meeting of the railroad f af(ajrs. only in this District
made in Kansas City by Junge Van j heads and leal advisers was called Dut aso jn Tucson and the capital if
Valkenburgh. o fhe federal court of . in Los Aneeles. It was tentatively ,np state the consensus of legal opiit
thft district. 'decided af this meeting that the rail- j()n i8 tlat any interference with li-
Each of the shipments received by j roads would accept such shipments. (1or. shipped according to he man
the express company in the Warren j pes the legal denartments were of datP f t,P federal court, on the part
District was from the Schiller Broth- the opinion that if the matter were f a peace officer or anyone else,
ers of Kansas City. who. some weeks! taken into court they would be com- would be as much incontempt of court
ago mandamiised the Santa Fe rail- j pel led to. However, after this deci- as similar action on the part of the
road and the Wells-Fargo to compel sion was reached in Is Angeles, tho common carrier.
those common carriers to transport ; nremature publication of the fact in i There is little inclination, however,
liquor into Arizona for personal use. (the Arizona newspapers deterred the nn)p prt of the officers in Bisbee,
Inquiry at the offices of the com-j company and there is no means of liwell or the Warren District to take
nany revealed the fact tnat ,rougii i knowing when the matter would have gny action which might involve the
the federal court decision did not re-! come to a focus had not Schiller possibility of their being called in
quire anything in the nature of affi- Brothers taken the case before Judge cont em pt of court.
davit from the consignees, the re-j Van Yalkenburg. Undoubtedly from this time forward
ceiving end would be obliged to fur-1 Since the Kansas City i.tqitor house or until such time as the electorate
nish suclr an instrument before the j secured the mandamus writ aginst or the legislature mav further regii
liquor would be delivered. Another j the Snnta Fe the Southern Pacific late the introduction of liquor into the
tact Decanie apparent. Those receiv
ing the personal use would be obliged
to call at the office of tne common
carrier instead of waiting for the wag
on of the company to mane oetivery.
The acceptance by Wells. Fargo &
Company of the mandate of the fed
eral court, it would seem, sets at rest
ja question that has been widely dis-
US FROM GARRANZA IS!
CftCT CIDCT nil nCMMll
Lilul I II MS UK ML III nil
GALLED TO
BORDER
York, As Many More From
Illinois And Pennsylvania
Ready.
EFFICIENCY HIGH
IN EASTERN TROOPS
Guards From Every State Al
ready Mobilizing ; Many
Ready To Start
By Rev ew Leaded Wire'.
SAN ANTONIO. June 19. General
Funston late today had not indicated '
: to the war department just what units
of the militia he wanted first, nor,
where they would be placed but it!
: was stated that he would ask for
' tl.'jse of New York, Illinois and
Pennsylvania, and because of their
.superiority in organization and equip-!
ment. they would be placed at border i
stations without loss of time.
I
,,,., on the Mexican side both of,
,ents on the Mexican side both of, a prepureu in iraie ai m
bandits an(l Jveinment troops, bnt'n1Sht tonight for either Guaymas
no 0ff.ja ,Pp0rt reached army head-' Maza,,an- TIle f"r"iser Chattanoo
uarter8 npre. of any in(.i,ent thatift at five m- and h f"'SP'- 'X
n.inrtarc Vi-i-a nf onv iiw-iilont flint
'appeared likely to disturb the delicate-j
balanced
relations between the i
Gene,a, Pershing's r eports indicated
two countries.
..... , t,.;. t-. ! ...
inBl umnm .ic.imb
haa t t nia(le a(lv e n vf ;
u..t a... . ... ,....-. ur-..u
Improbable that they could, unless ;
, ,
Trevino received special orders from ;
Mexico City. Such information as
reacneu general runsion conceruiiiB
mo viraniie.
5000 De Factos.
The garrison at Nuevo I-aredo. Mex-
ico, was strengthened by a mere
handful of men. but at Lampasas, be-
tween Lare" an1 Monterey, mere
tween iareuo ana .Monterey, mere
to the xniith of Juarez also was re-,
i'.'nntiniied on Page 21
take the matter mio tne Inderal courts
Comnany. according to word from
Tucson, has decided to accept all
shipments of liquor into Arizona, for
personal use. without the formality of
a rourt artion.
Manv were the bootleggers In Bis
bee and the District yesterday, who
saw the last of their eolden harvest.
ARRIVAL OF WET GOms Y
MEXICO CITY IN
PARADE FOR WAR
MEXICO (ITY. June 19.
The streets and public squares
of the capital were thronged all
the afternoon with patriotic
paraders who marched to t.'ie
various public offices, led by
bands and carrying the. nation
al emblem as evidence of 'heir
willingness to defend the coun
try's honor and dignity in case
of a foreign war.
More than 10.000 persons gath
ered in the great square bound
ed by the cathedral and muni
cipal palaces, where they were
addressed hy General Carranza
General Obregon and other
members of ' the government.
General Carranza told the
throngs that Mexico, was not
seeking war but would not
avoid it at the cost of national
dignity.
ftftft
a prepureu in iraie ai nnu-
uner uuaymas or
ttanooga
l " 'c V- .- "
" lpft oon afterward for Salina Cruz
, ,.,"'" ,
I'nited States destroyers Hull. Hop-
fclns and Truxton sailed from iere late
tndav to accomnanv the flanshin San
Ich is fo sail at midnight for
port8 on tne west coast of Mexico. The
T I 11 1 : I .! 1 1 W Ull fcfC Will IIIIIUW
da when necessary repairs
pleu;d
cruiser Milwaukee will follow in a few
are com-
M Warships Active
n atPSt reports to the department:
Kast Coast Battleship Arkansas.
Vera Cruz; gunboat Wheeling at Puer
.ieXico: gunboats Machias and
Marietta at Tampico; tender Dixie.
enroute Philadelphia to Tampico;
enroute Philadelphia to
been closed to passengers and nier-
c'landise to mask troop movements.
cii'liet Of lillllor for "per-miial'
or
ori'.'inal capacity.
Bisbee peace officers nr.'
ing what their particular
wonder
''lnction i....ivo ,,niii,r h. nniwnt aji..
state, for personal use. the common
carriers will continue to furnish a
great amount of the wet goods in
Bisbee and other towns in Arizona,
That I! i he is iilcased became aiiDar-
ent yesterday when the smile of him
who had been satisfied at M.50 a
quart, appeared on the street.
NEAR-WAR BRIFFS
BAG DDI
05 OR FIGHT SAYS
NOTE TO BE
Open Hostilities Expected To Follow Receipt Of American
Reply Which Will Be Handed Carranza Minister Arre
dondo At Washington Today. First Chief Stirring All
. . Mexico's Hatred For Americans
MORE THAN 100,000 NATIONAL GUARDS
CALLED OUT; SOON TO COME TO BORDER
Militia To Mobilize At State Camps And Federalize Before
Coming To Front" Congress To Meet Today And Make
Bigger Army Bill Immediately Effective Instead Of At
July 1 ; Navy Moves On Mexico
(By Review Leased Wire.)
MEXICO CITY. June 19. General Carranza in a statement to the press
late tonight reiterated his declaration that any movements tf Americsn
troops except to the northward would be considered hostile and that Mex
ican commanders had been ordered to repel It if made.
WASHINGTON, June 19. Upon General Carranza's reception of a stern
refusal to heed his demands for recall of American troops from Mexico, hinges
the question of a Mexican war. in the opinion of President Wilson's close ad
visors. They were prepared tonight for the possibility of open hostilities after
the note, which will be sent forward tomorrow, has reached Carranza's hand.
No indication has come that the First Chiefs attitude of implacable hos
tility would be shaken by the reiterated declaration of the latest communica
tion that the United States has no aggressive or war-like purpose toward
Mexico, but is firmly resolved to protect her borders and end brigandage op
the border states. The reply to Carranza's note demanding recall of General
Pershing's expedition was in the hands of the government printer tonight pre
paratory to its delivery and publication tomorrow. Secretary Lansing had
intended to send it forward today, but at the lat moment, minor changes and
additions to the fiOOO word document necessitated delay. Although It had been
planned to send it by special messenger to Mexico City, the situation has
changed and it probably will be hand. d to Kliseo Arredoudo. Mexican ambassador-designate.
100 000 Or More To Muster
While the diplomatic steps were in progress today, the nation was Mi.rrin
throughout its width and breadth with the movement of national guardsmen's
mobilization to guard the border. At least 100.000 and possibly a far lareer
number were preparing for active serwee under President Wilson s call. For
the present, their mission will he purely one of defense; hut should war come,
they will be ready also for t.'iat. No marching orders for the new forces had
gone out tonight. They will not be assigned to border duty until mustered
into the federal service.
Even when mobilization is com
pleted, only suc.'i units will he ordered
south as General Funston desires to
fill the gaps in his 1S00 miles guard
line. The remainder will rest on their
arms at the state mobilization camp
for the present waiting the turn of'
events.
All Mexico Inflamed
Official reports from many quarters'
show that a flame of popular feeling'
against the United States is being kin-!
died throughout Mexico. Apparently
it Is being done with the sanction of'
General Carranza, the leaders in many j
cases are those of his authorized mill-'
tary and civil agents.
From Juarez to the west coast of
Mexico, posters have appeared calling
the people to arms and asserting that
the United States is preparing to hurl
its armies Into Mexico. Chaotic con
ditions prevail everywhere, it is yaid.
Clash At Mazatlan
Clashes such as that between Mexi
can troops and American hluepackets
at Mazatlan yesterday show that rela
tions are strained to the breaking
point.
The act of a subordinate commander
anywhere may bring on righting that
will result in war.
Carranza Stirs Hatred
So far as officials are aware Gener
al Carranza is taking no strong meas
ures to curb his soldiers and people. '
Upon this fact many of them found
their belief that he was determined to '
force matters to an Issue unelss the.
American troops are withdrawn. .
Neither the State Department nor
members of the diplomatic corps have ;
been able to satisfy themselves us to.
Carranza's motives. There are some, I
however, who believe he hopes to ride !
into popularity by a diplomatic Irl-'
umph ever his powerful northern lead-!
ers. or tmon a war wave which might j
reestablish his tottering government
in popular estimation. Once the war;
is on. and the certain defeat of his ar-1
mies fores-hadowed. these observers i
say. General Carranza might sue fori
peace, trusting to the magnanimity of
the Washington government to leave
him in power.
5000 In Peril
Increasing uneasiness over the
plight of some 5000 American civil-!
inns now In Mexico, was manifested in !
official quarters today. Approximate-1
ly 1200 of that number are in Mexico
City, despite warning after warning .
through American consuls and other!
officials. Another emphatic message'
advising them to leave Mexico tmme-1
diately was sent by the S'ate Depart-j
ment through Special Agent Rodgers.
a day or two ago. Officials do not be-1
lieve the Carranza. government would ;
sanction an attack upon American res-!
idents or that other foreigners would!
I
SENT TODAY
be involved in any case. A weapon of
terrible possibilities is being forged in
Mexico, however; with the attempt to
incite the ignorant peon population to
a war-like feeling against the United
States. Mobs formed hy half-starved
natives who have been told that all of
Mexico's accumulated troubles are
traceable to the Americans, might
well precipitate a situation be von U lue
control of the government
Careful preparation has beep, made
for the protection of the big American
colony near Tampico. In numbers ii
exceeds that in the capital but Ameri
can navy gunboats and lig.'it craft al
ready have been designated to oTIve
prompt aid. If necessary, small land
ing parties would be sent to open the
way to the hoats.
MAY GO TO MEXICO CITY
For the Mexico City problem, how
ever, no such solution presents itse!?.
It was suggested to one official here
teday that an expeditionary force
might lie rushed to the relief of Ameri
cans there. He replied that it would
mean moving an army of 50.noo or per
haps 100.000 men and would take at
least two months to get them there.
GOVERNORS CALL GUARD
Although practically no details con
cerning the mobilization of national
guardsmen reached the war depart
ment today, acknowidgc tueuts of ilie
orders came from every governor,
with word that the troops had been
ordered under arms. In several in
stances, a request thaf the state be al
lowed to send its full contingent to the
border, instead of the regiments or
brigades, called for. accompanied the
acknowledgement. Governor Dunne,
of Illinois, was one of those who made
this request.
Congress To Rush Bill
Secretary Baker Announced during
the day that he had asked Representa
tive Hay and Senator Chamberlain,
chairmen of the House and Senate
military committees, to endeavor to
bring a he ul the adoption by Cnngrtss
of a new army organisation hill, w hich
will become effective July I. The re--olution
probably will be presented to
morrow in both houses.
With this information came also the
statement that the order calling out
the state troops were so framed as to
make it possible to compel the pres
ence at the Itorder. at least, of every
man enrolled.' They were summoned
as national guardsmen in which status
they hear a distinct relation to the
federal government, and hy law. ar
the first source for securing vrduDtevra
They were also summoned as mem
bers of the organized militia and as
such cannot be used herond the bor
der though available for any duty with
in the United States.
