VOL. 52 NO. 146
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., TUESDAY, JUNE 20, 1916
PRICE TWO CENTS
ecial .-Train To-Rush Americans Out
exico
So
Of
M
City
K
m'mmmws cmi mw mms m wim tie
-MEIEM! 1HI FldDM lldDWMSWELE TO C(M
WOHT.HEW
mmim
Government Factories Cap
able of Taking Care of De
mand In Case of "War, Be
lief of Bridgeport Concern
Officials Don't Expect to
' Be Taken Over.
SSeven Months Before Rem
. ington Plant , Could . Be
; Ready For Manufacture
. of U. S. Rifles Company
Will Not Sell Supplies to
Enemy.
That none of th big arms plants
-here will-bo seede or taken by the
TJ. S. government in case of war -with.
Mexico was the- opinion expressed to
. day by officials of the Remington
Arms Co. and -the Union Metallic Cart
ridge Co. "
, Edward Allen, one of the officials
of the latter company said today that
i the U. S. government manufactures
its own small arms - ammunitions at
! the government arsenal at Frankfort,
a suburb' of Philadelphia. Mr. Allen
said that the military, ammunition
manufactured by the company here Is
sold to jobbers in the United States.
Whether any of, it has been shipped
into Mexico he could not say but the
company has no direct dealings with
any of the agents of the warring fac
tions In Mexico. Mr. Allen said that
in the event of a war his company
would not attempt to make ammuni
tion for an enemy nation.
There is an embargo against the
shipment of arms or : ammunition
' from the United States to1 Mexico.
The Meadcan soldiers in ail the fight
ing factions there are armed with all
, sorts anad makes of firearms and the
question of procuring ammunition by
the belligerents is now said to be a
erious one. .
John French, publicity agent at the
BFtemington Anns Co, said today that
fcis company is making rifles and bay
onets for the French and Russian ar
mies and that it" .would be necessary to
make new dies, a labor of about seven
months, if his company cAtould begin
work for the government. He thought
It unlikely that the company .would
begin government work.- The govern
ment manufactures the present Spring
ifleld army rifle at the arsenals at
Springfield and! at Hocfi Island, 111.
This is considered by experts the best
military rifle in the world. Bayonets
axe 'also manufactured at 'both these
arsenals. ' . ' '
At the Watervleit arsenal, New "York
state, and the Washington navy yard
arsenal projectiles and. shells for big
guns are made. The Union Metallic
Cartridge Co.' made small arms am
munition and big shells and projec-
' tiles for ' the government during the
Spanish war and might do so again in
the event of war with Mexico, but Mr.
Allen believes such manufactures
would be under contract without the
government taking over the factory.
TROLLEY CARS
STALLED WHEN
BOLT HITS THEM
Xiightning Disables Tele
phone Dispatching Sys
tem and Burns Wires.
Lightning during the electrical
ktorm last night played queer tricks
With the systems of the Connecticut
Co. It put the telephone dispatching
system of the company out of busi
ness, burned out the wires at the
railroad bridge at Stratford center,
and' struck two trolley cars at Park
and Fairfield avenues.
A bolt ran along the wires at the
Stratford bridge until - It struck the
girders then it grounded, and burn
ed the wires out. The burned wires
were replaced by he repair crew ser
vice being halted for. an hour jwhile
the repairs were being made.
At JS o'clock last night . a Brook
lawn car had Just turrted the corner
of Park avenue while a Fairfield car
was approaching from, the direction
of St. John's Episcopal , church. A
lighting bolt struck the ground with
a crash and seemed to bound about
the rails until it burned out the fuses
' in both cars and prevented them being
moved. , The cars were later towed
into the car barn and replaced by
ethers. ; . -
SHOPS HERE
PREPAREDNESS
SPIRIT 'HOVERS
ABOUT ARMORY
State Institution a Busy
; Place, With Bustle Caus
ed By War Danger.
FORMER MILITIAMEN
RUSHING TO RE-ENLIST
Local Officers of C. A. C.
Have Received No Word
For Mobilization.
Local officers of the Coast Artillery
Corps have received no word for mo
bilization outside of the orders to oro-
ceed"-for the Joint manoeuvres at Fort
Wright. It is known, however, that
two companies of the regular- Coast
Artillery at the fort have received or
ders to proceed as infantry' and Join
the guard at the Texas border and the
other officers of the other two compa
nies have ' received orders to prepare
to leave for field of ;duty at short no
tice. - .
Two companies at Fort Terry have
ben ordered to the Hawaiian Islands.
In view of this situation onte.rr-of the
local 'battalion believe that, the " Con
necticut Coast Artillery corps will '.be
kept at Fort Wright after the sutamer
tour-of duty ends on July L,
Members of the local companies who
had been excused from attending the
manoeuvres because of pressing bus
iness or for other causes, are report
ing to their company commanders and
the armory is a busy place these days.
The report that the companies may be
kept on duty at the Island forts and
later called for service along the bor
der, or in Mexico has brought the re-
enlistment of many former militiamen
and it is quite likely that every com
pany will go to camp with full ranks.
The baggage , of the companies was
loaded on a special train last night
and left Bridgeport early today. Those
in charge were Quartermaster Ser
geant Harry Johnson of the Fourth
company, Quartermaster Sergeant
Robert Lewis of the Second company.
Quartermaster Sergeant Ralph Smith,
with the Eleventh company, and Ser
geant William--Dixon with the band
and hospital corps baggage. -
The three companies, band and' hos
pital corps,; under command of Lieut. -
Colonel Vincent M King will leave
Bridgeport, on - a special troon train
Thursday morning at 8:58. The bat
talion will make a short parade before
leaving camp, going down Main street,
to State street, to Courtland street, to
Fairfield avenue to the railroad " sta
tion. . i ':
Tbw Connecticut National Guard as
sociations . that have been called to
their armories by President Wilson's
request for troops are named! below:
First Connecticut Infantry, Col.
Richard J. Goodman, command :
headquarters Hartford. This regi
ment has 12 companies. Of these
Companies A, B, F, H and K are in
Hartford, Company C is in Middle-
town. Company D in Bristol, Company
L in Willimantic and Company M in
Winsted, and a machine gun -company
in Hartford.
Second Connecticut Infantry, Col.
Charles F. McCabe, commanding,
headquarters West Cheshire. This
regiment also has 12 companies. Com
panies A and G are located n Water
bury, Companies B, E, C, D and F
are in New Haven, Company L in
Meriden, Company K in Wallingford
and Company M in Torrington. There
is also a machine gun company in
New Haven. v
Several of the companies in both
regiments are without officers.
The Fifth Militia Cavalry, Troops A
of New Haven and B of Hartford.
The Tenth Militia Field artillery.
.whicji embraces the five field batteries
recently organized at rale college, the
two new batteries at Stamford and the
.battery at Branford. The latter or
ganization went to the Civil War as
the First Conn. Light battery, and
again to the Spanish war under the
same designation with a platoon
from Yale college. '
The sanitary troops: First Conn.
Field Hospital company. New-Haven;
First Connecticut Ambulance com
pany, Hartford.
The First Conn. Field company.
Signal Troops, of Hartford, command
ed by Capt. George E. Cole, son of th
adjutant-general.
TORRINGTON IS ACTIVE.
' Torrington. Conn., June 20 Com
pany M, second Infantry, of this towh,
is assembled at the state armory
awaiting orders to go to Nlantic. A
large crowd was at the armory at 8
o'clock expecting that-fee men would
soon depart for the mobilizing ground.
Several new men have been enlist
ed. THE WEATHER
Fair tonight and Wednesday, some
what cooler tonight; moderate west
UNITED STATES IS DETEUED
REMOVE PERILS OF CITIZENS
BORDER; TEXT OF AlEft
' 1 : ""v
Washington, June 20 jThe "American note, flatly rejecting General Carranza's demand
for the withdrawal of United States troops from Mexico and rebuking the Carranza gov
ernment, for the discourteous tone and temper of its last communication, was handed to
day to Elizeo Arredondo, the Mexican ambassador designate.
Long-continued outrages against Americans and their property both in Mexico and on,
American soil are reviewed in the note and warning given that troops will' be kept in Mex
ico until such time as the de facto government performs the duty, which the United States
has not sought, of pursuing the bandits who ouglit to be arrested and punished by the Mex
ican government. '
. It concludes with the statement that if the de facto government continues to ignore
this obligation and carries out its threat to defend its territory by an appeal to arms
against the -American troops, gravest consequences will follow. "
"While this - government would deeply regret such a result," says the note, "it cannot
recede from its settled determination to maintain its national rights and to perform its full
duty in preventing further invasions, of the territory of the United States and in removing
the peril which. Americans along the international boundary have borne so long with pa
tience and forbearance."
"I am reluctant, to be forced to, the conclusion which might be drawn from the cir
cumstances," Secretary Lansing declared, "that the de facto government, in spite of crimes
committed and the sinister designs of Villa and his followers, did not and does not now in
tend or desire that these outlaws should be captured, destroyed or dispersed by American
troops or, at the request of this government, by Mexican troops."
The purpose of tjae United States government towards Mexico as questioned in thW
last Mexican note are announced in the following language: .. ' - . V
7"" "Tf a denial is needed Hhat tHis government has had ulterior and improper motives in
its diplomatic representations or has countenanced the activities of American sympathizers
and the American press opposed to the de facto government, I am most emphatically to
deny it. It is, however, a matter of common knowledge that the Mexican press has been
more active than the press in the United States in endeavoring to inflame the two peoples
against each other and force the two countries into hostilities." t
The text of the note follows:
. The Secretary of State to the Sec
retarybf Foreign Relations of the de
facto government of Mexico: -
DEPARTMENT. OF STATE,
WASHINGTON, JUNE 20,1916.
Sir: I have read your communica
tion .which was delivered to me on
May 152, 19i6, under instructions of
the dhief executive of the de facto
government of Mexico, on the subject
of the presence of American troops
in Mexican territory and I would be
wanted in candor if I did hot before
making answer, to the allegations of
fact and the conclusions reached' by
your government, express1' the sur
prise and regret which have been
caused this government by the dis
courteous tone and temper of this last
communication of the de faoto gov
ernment of Mexico. '
The government of the United
States has- viewed with deep concern
and increased , disappointment the
progress of the revolution n Mexico.
Continuous bloodshed and disorders
hav marked, its progress. For three
years the Mexican republic has been'
torn with strife; the lives of Ameri
cans and other aliens have been sacri
ficed; vast properties developed by
American capital and enterprise have
been destroyed or rendered non-productive;
bandits have been permit
ted to roam at will through the ter
ritory contiguous to the United States
and to seize, without punishment or
without effective attempt at punish
ment, the, property of Americans,
while the lives of citizens of the Unit
ed States, who ventured to remain in
Mexican territory or to return there
to protect their interests have been
taken, in some cases barbarously tak
en, and murderers have neither been
apprehended nor brought to justice.
It would be difficult to find in the an
nals of the . history of Mexico condi
tions more deplorable than those
which have existed there during these
recent years of civil war.
Outrage After Outrage.
It would be tedious to account ad
vance after advance, outrage after
outrage on our country, to illustrate
the true nature and extent of the wide
spread conditions of lawlessness and
violence which have prevailed. Dur
ing the past nine months in particular
the frontier of the United States along
the lower Rio Grande has been thrown
into a state of constant apprehension
and turmoil because of frequent and
sudden incursions and depredations
and murders' on American soil by
Mexican bandits, who have taken the
lives and destroyed the property of
American citizens, sometimes carrying
American citizens across the interna
tional boindary with the booty seized.
American garrisons have .been at
tacked at night. American soldiers
killed and their equlpmentand horses
stolen; ranches have been raided,
property destroyed and stolen, Ameri
can trains wrecked and plundered.
The attacks on Brownsville, Red
House Ferry, . Progresso Post Office
and Ias Peladas, all occurring during
September last, are typical. In theee
attacks on American territory Car
ranzista adherents and even Carran
zlstas soldiers took part In the looting,
burning and killing. Not only were
these murders clrracterized by ruth
less brutality but uncivilized acts of
mutilation were perpetrated. Rep
resentations were made to General
Carranza and he was emphatically re
quested to stop theae reprehensible
acts in, a section which he has long
claimed to be under ; the complete
domination of his authority. Not
withstanding these representations and
the promise of an effort to prevent
attacks along the international boun
dary, in the following month of- Oc
tober, a passenger train was wreck
by bandits and several persons killed
seven miles north of Brownsville and
an , attack made upon United States
troops at -the same place several days
later.,
Bandits Unpunished.
Since these attacks, leaders of the
bandits well known both to Mexican
civil and military authorities as well
aa to American officers, have been
enjoying with dmpunity the liberty of
the towns of northern Mexico. So
far has the indifference of the de
facto government to these atrocities
gone that some of these leaders, as I
am advised, have received not only the
protection of that government but en
couragement and aid as well.
Depredations upon American per
sons and property within Mexican jur
isdiction .have been still more nu
merous. This government has re
peatedly requested in the strongest
terms that the de facto government
safeguard . the lives and homos of
American1 dtiens and furnish the pro
tection which international obligation
imposes, to American interests in the
northern states of Tamaulipas, Nuevo
Leon, Ooahuila, Chihuahua and So
nora and also in the states to the
south. For example, on January 3,
troops were requested to punish the
bands of outlaws which looted, the
Cusi mining property, 80 miles west
of Chihuahua, but no effective results
came from this request. During the
following week the bandit Villa, with
his band of about 200 men, was oper
ating without opposition between Ru
bio and Santa Ysabel. a fact well
known to Carranzista authorities.
Meanwhile, a party of unfortunate
Americans started by train from Chi
huahua to visit the Cusi after having
received assurances from the Carran
ista authorities in the state of Chihua
hua that the country was safe and
that a guard on the train was not
necessary. The Americans held pass
ports or safe conducts Issued by au
thorities of the de facto government.
On January 10, the train was stopped
by Villa bandits and 18 of the Ameri
can party was stripped of their cloth
ing and shot in cold blood, in what is
now known as the "Santa Ysabel Mas
sacre." Only One Punished
General Carranza staged to the agent
of the state department that he had
orders for the immediate pursuit, cap
ture and punishment of those respon
sible for this atrocious crime and ap
pealed to this government and to the
American people to consider the diffi
culties of according protection along
the railroad where, the massacre oc
curred. Assurances were also given
by Mr. Arredendo, presumably under
instructions from the de facto govern
ment, that the murderers would be
brought to justice and that steps would
also be taken to remedK.the lawless
conditions existing in the state of Du-,
rango. It is true that Villa, Castro
and Lopez were publicly declared to be
outlaws and subject to apprehension
and execution, but so . far as known
only a single man personally connect
ed with this i massacre has been
' brought to Justice by Mexican authori-
T
IGM MOT
ties.
Within a month after this barbarous
siaugnter of inoffensive Americans it
was noticed that Villa was operating
wlthjn 20 miles of Cusihliriachic and
publicly stated that his purpose was
to destroy American lives and proper
ty. Despite repeated and insistent de
mands that military protection should
be furnished to Americans, Villa open
ly oarried on his operations, constant
ly approaching closer and closer to
the border. He was not intercepted
nor were his movements impeded, by
troops' of the de facto government a I
no effectual attempt was made to frus
trate his hostile design against Amer
icans. In fact, as I am informed, while)
Villa and his band were slowly mov
ing toward the American frontier in
the neighborhood of Columbus, N. M.,
not a single Mexican soldier was seen
in his vicinity. Yet the Mexican au
thorities were fully cognizant of his
movements, for on March 6, as Gen
eral Gaviera publicly announced, he
advised the American military authori
ties of the outlaw's approach to .the
border, so that they might be prepar
ed to prevent him from crossing tho
boundary. Villa's unhindered activi
ties culminated in the unprovoked and
cold blooded attack on American sol
diers and citizens in the town of Co
lumbus on (the night of March 9, the
details of which do not need repeti
tion here in order to refresh your
memory with the heinousnesss of the
crime. After murdering, burning and
plundering, VH19. and his bandits, flee
ing south, passed within sight of the
Carranzista military post at Casas
Grandes and no effort was made to
stop him by the officers ana garrison
of the de facto government stationed
there. , .
No Other Recourse
In the face of these depredations,
not only on American lives and prop
erty on Mexican soil, but on Ameri
can soldiers, citizens and homes on
American territory, the perpetrators of
which General Carranza was unable or
possibly considers it inadvisable to ap
prehend and punish, the United States
had no recourse other than to employ
force to disperse the bands of Mexican
outlaws who were with Increasing
boldness systematically raiding across
the international boundary. The mar
auders "engaged In the attack on Co
liyjribus were driven back across the
border by American cavalry and sub
sequently, as soon as a sufficient force
to cope with the band could be col
lected, we pursued into Mexico in an
effort to capture or destroy them.
Without co-operation or assistance
in the field on the part of the de facto
government, despite repeated requests
by the United 'States, and without ap
parent recognition on its part of the
desirability of putting an end to these
systematic raids, or of punishing-the
chief perpetrators of the crimes com-,
mitted, because they menaced the
good relations of the two countries.
American forces pursued the lawless
bands as far as Parral, where the
pursuit was halted by the hostility ofi
Mexicans, presumed to be loyal to the
de facto" government, who arrayed
themselv.es on the , side of outlawry
and became in effect the protectors of
Villa and his bands.
Action Was Xmperativ
In this manner and for these rea
sons have the American forces en
tered Mexican territory. Knowing
(Continued on Page 2.)
Whole Machinery of War Department' Set in Mo
tion Following Communication From Funston,
Pointing Out Need For More Troops Brother
of Brownsville Mayor Found Murdered on
Mexican Territory Body of Mexicans Ad
vancing to Attack on Del Rio Rear Admiral
Winslow Off With Flagship to Mexican Port.
Washington, Ju,ne 20. Orders for entrainments of
units of the militia, .ready for service, are expected to be
issued by the war department before nightfall, following
an urgent request from General Funston for additional:
guardsmen. , ,
The whole machinery of the war department is jn mo-,
tion to ascertain the status of the various organizations;
mobilized at the order of the President. '
General Funston 's communication to the department!
asks for a large part of the national guardsmen to be sta
tioned along the Mexican boundary "from Brownsville to
the Pacific Ocean."
" With Admiral Winslow, commander-in-chief of the
Pacific fleet, abroad the armored cruiser San Diego, flag
ship of the Pacific fleet, sailed from the port of San DiegQ
this afternoon. Its destination was believed to be either
Guaymas or JVIazatlan, Mex. At TVIazatlan, on Sunday,
there occurred a clash between bluejackets from the An
napolis and Mexicans, resulting in casualties' on both sdes.
IThr-ee destroyers accompanied the San.I)iego.
Mexican troops were reported, last night,to be advanc
ing on Bel Rio, 100 miles up the Rio Grande from Eagle
Pass. It was reported that they were prepared to attack.
' Tension along the border was heightened this after
noon with' the discoyery of the body of William Browne,
brother of Albert Browne, mayor of Brownsville. The
body gave indications of foul play. He was seen, last, in
Matamoras. The body was on the Mexican side of the
river, ten miles south of Matamoras.
YALE BATTERIES
ARE MOBILIZED
ON OLD CAMPOS
Connecticut Cities Reported
Recruiting Militia to Full
, Strength.
New Haven, June 20 The Yale bat
teries were mustered today for service
under the elms of the .old college
yard. The commandsdesignated as
Batteries C, B and D, 10th Militia
Field Artillery, are made up mostly
of x undergraduates in tne university
with a. fair proportion of men wno
will be graduated tomorrow. The
first assembly under the general or
ders for mobilization brought together
upwards of 150 ' men about equally
distributed among the four com
mands. Captain Danford, U. S. A.,
who Is instructor, took command as
soon as the battery commanders had
formed their men.
After the batteries had been formed
they were assembled as a battalion.
Captain Danford then addressed the
men. He said that the showing
made under adverse conditions was a
"creditable one and Xale men back for
their reunions ought to be proud of
what the undergraduates were do
ing. Captain Danford informed the men
that there was much work to be done
to equip the men for service, and it
would also be. necessary to call for
recruits to bring the batteries up to
maximum strength before they could
be sent to Niantic.
The batteries were then dismissed
and the Xale men gathered broke into
ringing cheers again and again.
MAY WATT FEW DAYS.
Hartford, June 20 The entire Na-
lonal Guard of Connecticut with the
exception of the Naval 'Militia, the
Coast Artillery Corps and the First
Separate company was mobilized,
about . 3,000 strong, at armories
throughout the state at 8 o'clock this
morning, in accordance with the or
ders issued yesterday by Adjutant
General George M. Cole.
When the assembly sounded the
five Hartford companies of the First
regiment, the ambulance company
(Continued on Page 2.)
i
Americans Quitting Terri
tory Below the Border
Bring Stories of Intense
Suffering '
Fl Paso Tex.. June 20 Hunger is
'swelling the army that General Car
ranza is recruiting in northern Mex
ico in preparation for possible hostili
ties with the United States, according :
to statistics brought today' by Ameri
cans arriving from that territory.
Many who for some time have been
on the verge of starvation, have been
flocking to his standard in the last
few days' in return for promises of
food and clothing, they said. No ap- '
plicants have been rejected, accord
ing to these stories, -which told of
boys 10 and 12 years of age and old
men being recruited.
One of the arrivals, an American
business man of Mexico City, esti
mates there are now 15,000 Carranza
troops in Chihuahua state, of whom
about 2,000 are in Chihuahua. City, .
4,000 in Juarez and 5,000 In 1 Villa
Ahumada, the northern Chihuahua
base which is 93 miles south of El
Paso. The remainder practically sur
round the American expeditionary
command on the south, east and west.
He skid also that several thousand
troops which had been at Chihuahua
recently were' sent toward San An- 1
tono and Madera, ostensibly to be
stationed along the line of the Mexi
can Northwestern Railway, south of
enerai .Pershing's command.
The refugees brought with them
graphic sries of economic conditions.
One man said that he and his feilow
passengers woiild have starved had not
the train stopped at times long
enough to allow them to get out and
eat raw beans from fields. Another
said he had vainly offered $5 Ameri
can gold for a tortilla.
Both El Paso and Juarez remained
outwardly 'calm today but in both
towns soldiers were kept close to their
camps. Educated Mexicans, some of
them living in El Paso and. others
who have arrived here recently from
interior points in . the United States
have been crossing the frontier in
large numbers recently, asserting that
their place in the crisis is with their
people.
Detachments detailed by General
Francisco Gonzales, on the Mexican
side of the Rio Grande and General
George Bell, Jr., on the American
side, to investigate reports that tho
body of an American killed in Texa3
had been found on the Chihuahua
J side, reported they were unable to &ai
any ixaca ot .
winds. .
' (
