EPU
AM INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAT5
10 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, TUESDAY MORNING, J UNE 20, 1916
10 PAGES
VOL. XXVII, NO. 33
Auvuan 3xvj.8
nn
ARIZONA
JlIj
JLJ?
jpi "
dC7 & .
Mexico Ready But
IAS
WAHNOTSOUGHT
BUT PREPARED
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
MEXICO CITY, June 19 The streets
and public squares of the capital were
thronged air the afternoon with pat
riotic paraders who marched to the
various public officer, led by bands
and carrying the national emblems as
vidence of their willingness to defend
the country's honor and-d'gnity in case
of a foreign war.
More than 10,000 persons gathered
iiv the irreat square bounded by the
cathedral and municipal palace, where
they were addressed by General Car
rana, War Minister Obregon and
other menlbers of the government.
Onejal ('arrsnza told the throngs that
Mexico was not seeking war but would
not avoid it at the cost of national
dignity.
"Mexico," said General Carranza,
will not dec lit re war on the. United
Slates, but will know how to do her
di ty if hostilities are forced upon
her."
A meeting of Mexican workingmen
organizations today decided to send a
committee of workmen to Piedras .
:;ras tomorrow. to confer with a com
mittee from the American Federation
of Labor and to use every effort to pre
vent war between the United States
and Mexico.
It was announced tonight that no
restrictions would be placed on American,-:
des.Ting to leave Mexico. In an
swer to an inouiry made by an emis
sprv of T. !. in Rodgers, representa
tive 'if the American government be
fore the Carranza government, the
foreign office said that every assur
ance would be given fcrreigners of pro
tection oil their trip4o the coast.
A general exodus among the Amer
ican olonv has - cemmenced and all
who are able to do so are leaving for
Vera Cruz or northern border points.
Mr. Kodgers called at the foreign of
fice tonight for the purpose of arrang
inir for a special train to leave here
Wednesday to carry Americans to
coast ports. The result of his mission
had not betn madeiublic up to a late
iio-ii lomgni.
During the demonstrations today the
American consulate was stoned. The
t -ming occurred while Vice Consul
P.iw? was in the building and only ten
minutes after Special Representative
Roogers had left the place. Mr. Kod
gers tonight protested against the
stoning.
Late today a commission of engin
oeis, called on General Carranza and
offend a plan for nat'onal defense in
case war v itii the United States be
came a retlity. The first chief prom-i'w-d
to give tiitir plan careful con
sideration. -
No Araci'iian has been in any way
molested during recent demonstra
: iocs.
Nuevo Laredo Stores Close
LARFDO, Tex., June 19. All bus
ii.ess l ouse ill Nuevo Laredo the
(Continued on Page Thr-i
BROWNSVILLE MA Y BE POINT
, DFCONTACTQFHOSTIUTIES
Republican A. P. Leased Wfre
BROWNSVILLE, Tex., June 19.
Tenseness in the international situ
ation along both sides of the border
in the Brownsville district, recently
looked on as the possible point of
contact of hostilities between the
United States and Mexico, rose and
fell today with the arrival of each
bit of news along the American side
of the river.
After Brigadier General James
Parker announced he was confident
tiiat General Alfredo Rlcaut would
carry out his promises of assistance
In exterminating the bandits along
the lower Rio Grande border Mev-
icarra began repairing their damaged
tracks on the International bridge,
torn up during" the excitement Satur
day night.
Then came jthe news of the calling
nut of all state national guards, and
the recall of Consul J. H. Johnson
from Matamoros. Promptly, Mexi
cans operating from the south side
of the river again to-e up the rail-
road tracks and for the second time
built a barricade of steel rails at a
commanding point, just off the south
end of the bridge.
A number of American .ranch own
ers In the state of Tamaulipas asked
yermlssion to visit their property on
the Mexican side. It was granted
with the proviso that, they go un
jirmed. A few made the trip ' but
shortly after returned to the Amer
ican side. i
The movement of a comiia"" of the
Twenty-sixth infantry out of Browns
ville to the San Pedro ranch, the
American base of the fourth punitive
expedition into Mexico, caused some
FLORES' ULTIMATUM
AMOUNTS PRACTICALTY
TO WAR DECLARATION
n
CHICAGO HAS FIRST
MEXICAN "WAR BRIDE"
CHICAGO. June 19. Chicago's t
first Mexican "war bride" was
! Miss Anna K. Knudson. She and
I Captain August F. Y. Siebel of i
I Company C, second infantry, I. N. i
G., were married today upon re-
ceipt of Governor Dunne's order
I to the state troops to mobilize at
i once. They wore married in the. I
I regimental armory.. I
I l
D n
ISTOH LOOKS
OR INDICATION
HDSTILITY
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAX ANTONIO. June 19. While
100,(100 members of ' the militia were
being mobilized today. General Fun
ston anxiously studied the border, for
any indication of hostility on the part
:f Carranza's troops.
Army officers along the Rio Grande
from Rrownsviille to Kl Paso obtained
what information they could concern
ing the movements on the Mexican
ide both of bandits and government
troops, but no official report reached
trmy headquarters here of any inci
lent that aiJpeared likely to disturb
the lielioately balanced relations be
tween the two countries.
General Pershing's reports indicated
that General Jacinto Trevino's troop
had not vet made any advance move
and army officers believed it improb
able that they would, unless Trevino
received special orders from Mexico
City.
Such information as reached Gen.
Fimston concerning the movements of
Mexican troops indicated the adoption
;if a plan not to maintain heavy gar
risons at border points but to hold the
oulk of the border army some miles
vouth of the Rio Grande.
The garrison at. Nuevo Laredo, Mex.,
Vas strengthened by a mere handful
of men, but at Lampazos, between La
redo and Monterey, there were held
1,000 or 6,000 troops. The garrison at
Laredo tonight was less than 1,000. At
Piedras Xegras, the, Mexican town op-
iosite Eagle Pass, the Mexican gar-'
rison has been busy leaving all day.
Tonight a considerable force was
heavily armed, bt the larger part had
noved to points south, where they
were incorporated with other bodies ot,
troops. Before leaving Piedras Ne-
gras, the Mexicans dismantled the ma
chine shops, moving large quantities
of the material to the Interior. The
concentration of heavy forces to the
south of Juarez also was reported. The
(Continued on Page Two)
excitement until it was learned from
Fort Brown that this company merely
exchanged positions with a company
of the Fourth infantry, which re-,
infantry, which
turned to Fort Brown,
It was reported here tonight
two Mexicans, wounded in the
that,
rear j
guard action on the Amprinnnu whiln
withdrawing from Mexican soil Sun-!Pan'' tne Democrata Mining company
day morning, died in the Matamoros Bd other 'smaller roperties and the
hospital todav. Tht wr.nl,! i,h thi complete paralysis of a community
total number of
ment to four.
dead in the engage-iof
American Bluejackets and
Carranza Soldiers Clash
IRepumican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, June W. A clash
between Carranza soldiers and Amer-
! 'n seamen from the gunboat Annap
olis at Mazatlan was called to the at
tention of the Washington government
today by General Carranza's ambassa
dor here tvith a request that in the ex-
isting tense situation no men be landed j tonight, it had not been reecived.
in Mexico;- from American warships, j Meantime there was no intimatjon
under any circumstances. - that the ambassador's request would
The incident, which occurred yester- alter In any way the administration's
day, resulted in casualties oil both j plans for protecting Americans in Mex
sidea, and in the capture by the Mex- ican coast towns, which would involve
icans, of two American officers, who, I sending marines and bluejackets ashore
after an explanation, were released i n hr,r ,ff refugees should any emer-
according to the report presented by
the ambassador. A dispatch received
from Admiral Winslow regarding the
capture of the men made no mention of
t'leir release, but officials assumed it had
Won't Declare War
! Governor of Sinaloa Takes
Hostile Stand Against
Americans in His Slate,
Refusing to Allow Them
to Board Annapolis.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN DIF.GO, June 19. An ulti
matum amounting practically to a
leclaration of war against the United
States was served today on Com
mander Arthur G. Kavanaugh, of the
gunboat Annapolis, by General Flores,
Carranza governor of the state of
Sinaloa, according to a radiogram
sent from the Annapolis at Mazatlan
and received here today by Admiral
Winslow, commander-in-chief of the
Pacific fleet.
Owing to th low-powered radio
set of the Annapolis, difficulty has
been experienced in communicating
with the gunboat, but enough facts I
have 'come through to indicate that
General Flores has taken a hostile!
stand against Americans and that it
was his refusal to permit Americans
to leave Mazatlan that resulted in j
the clash between the bluejackets of
the Annapolis and Mexicans charac
terized as Carranza soldiers. The
exact substance of his ultimatum has j
not yet been received.
According to the reports received, ,
the commander of the Annapolis ad-
vised all Americans in the vicinity
sibie. a-boat from Vhe' war 'vessel j
containing Ensign O. o. KessLng,
Paymaster Andrew Mowat, and a
number of bluejackets Approached the
wharf, Ensign Kessing being under
orders from Commander Kavanagh
to arrange with the Mexican authori
ties to get out all Americans.
Withtrtil provocation, it i.s reported,
the Mexicans opened fire on the
sailor and Boatswain's Male I. M.
Laughter was seriously wounded
The Americans returned the fire, and
as far as known, six Mexicans were
either killed or wounded.
Earlier reports that a drunken
Japanese started the trouble are nol
borne out in reports received here
Ensign Kessing and Paymaster Mo
wat were taken prisoners and sent
to, the fortress, but later were re
leased on demands presented
Flores by Commander Kavanagh
to
Sonora Citizens Arming
DOUGLAS, Ariz., June 19. Adolfo
de la Huerta, governor of Sonora, is
sued the orders under which the civil
population of the state are arming
themselves, according to Americans
reaching here today from Naco, who
were in Cananea Saturday night and
listened to the reading of the official
message In a theater. De La Huerta
is said to have used strong language
in urging the Mexicans to make haste
to preoare to meet the American
forces. '
From the same source it is learned
that the demonstration of Saturday
night at Cananea was even more vio
lent than was indicated by the first
reports. Many Americans were at
a dance and these were herded to
their homes like cattle. Others were
stopped on , the street by armed
guards who menaced them with
drawn pistols and rifles while they
searched them for money. A num
ber of shots were fired at the homes
of Americans. Armed guards stood
watch over the homes of many of
them throughout the night.
There are approximately fiftO Amer-
iean's In Cananea, according to the
most reliable information obtainable
here. The problem of getting them
out of Mexico without creating more
oitter feelil,S amo"S the Mexicans is
a trying one. The oeparture oi me
Americans would mean the . closing
down of the smelter and mines of the
Cananea- Consolidated Copper corn-
20'00" Prsons-
(Continued on I age Two)
'occurred after the message
was sent.
The onlv American injured was Boats-
wains' Mate J. m. uiugmei, ''"
miral Winslow reported was "gyavely
wounded."
Admiral Winslow sent only a brief
account of the. incident, and navy de
partment officials immediately re
r, nested a. more detailed report. Late
gency require it. More than a score
of American war vessels already are
in Mexican waters, enroute there, or
being held in readiness to go as refugee
ships.
MOBILIZATION
ORDER PROVOKES
QUICK ACTION
Republican.
WASHINGTON
P. Leased Wire
June 19. Response
from governors of the states
to Pres-
ident Wilson's call on the national
guard for service along the Mexican
border reached the war department I
today in rapid succession.
The men will be held at state mo
bilization points until mustered into
the federal service. If the entire force
is not immediately desired for border
service, the units not sent south prob
ably will be granted furlough.
j tire Ltho "Tmum ?nTf i
j which will be upward of 100,000 men,
wiil be held under arms for two
J weeks or a month while the process
of mustering into the federal service
and of equipment are being worked
out.
Pacific Coast Responding
SAN FRANCISCO, June 19. Prac
tically all Pacific coast organizations
have sent word that their units will '
lie ready to entrain within three days !
at the latest. j
Mobilization of the Oregon national
"leu -1
guard is proceeding rapidly. I.
tenant Governor W. W. McDowell has
taken charge of the Montana troo
Every command in. the state of
t-ruued to fun strength before it puiis
out of its 'armory. Also Idaho's sol
diers, Governor Emmet I). Bovle of
Nevada immediately set in m
t:uk,ma
machinery to organize
guard of ttuo men.
Colorado's guardsmen rapidly were
(Continued on I'age Thrt-ei
o
WTPN P
I VL.JJL.LJ
inn
MEXICO ITERS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, June IP. The fol
lowing list of American war vessels in
Mexican waters, enroute there, or held
in readiness to go there was given out
by the navy department, based on lat
est reports to the department:
East coast Battleship Nebraska, at'
Vera Cruz; gunboat Wheeling at Puer
to Mexico; gunboats Machias and Ma
rietta at Tampico; tender Dixie, en
route Philadelphia to Tampico; scout
cruiser Salem, enroute Guantanamo to
Tampico-: transport Hancock, enroute
San Domingo to Vera Cruz, and three
destroyers enroute Key West to Vera
Cruz.
West coast Gunboat Annapolis, at
Mazatlan; gunboat Yorktown and sup
ply ship Glacier at Topolompo: cruiser
Cleveland at Guaymas; cruiser Albany
at Manzanillo; armored cruiser San
DiegO, cruisers Chattanooga, Denver,
Milwaukee and four destroyers held in
readiness at San Diego, and transport
Buffalo enroute to Mazatlan.
Destroyers Sail
SAN PEDRO, Cab, June 19. The
United States destroyers Hull, Hopkins
and Truxtun sailed from here late to
day to accompany the flagship San
Diego which is to sail at midnight, for
ports on the west coast of Mexico. The
cruiser Milwaukee will follow in a few
days, when necessary repairs are com
pleted, r
The war ships are under orders to
proceed to the west coast of Mexico
at top speed. The shfp's bunkers were
filled today to capacity with coal and
large supplies of meat and other stores
were taken aboard. '
The cruisers Colorado and Pittsburg,
the latter flagship of Rear Admiral
Fullam, commander-in-chief of the Pa
cific reserve fleet, will sail tomorrow to
join the ships under Admiral Winslow.
According to advices here, the cruiser
Maryland will steam from Bremerton,
Wash., tomorrow morning direct to the
lower coast. The cruiser South Dakota
nr,w iii rii v doc k at Bremerton also will
AD
be released tomorrow for duty in organized in Phoenix.
southern waters. j An proplane scare caused hun-
The protected cruiser Milwaukee and I dreds of local people to rush into the
the destroyer Stewart are expected to ! streets shortly before dark tonight,
receive orders tomorrow to proceed ! As there were no planes here it was
south. Including ships now in Mexi- reported that this was a military
can waters, Admirals Wnislow and j machine belonging to the de facto
Fullam will have a fleet of 17 cruisers, ! Mexican troops, sent to reconnoiter
gunbiuits and destroyers for whatever i over Douglas. The theories were ex
duty they may be required. j ploded when it was learned that the
That Admiral Winslow contemplates ! 'aeroplane" was a large box kite sent
landing a force of bluejeckets and ma-
rines on Mexican soil in an emergency
was indicated today by the fact that
officers and sailors of the ships owning
motorcycles were requested to bring '
them aboard. It was understood Ad- I
miral Winslow would form a motorcy-
cle squadron for scouting purposes if
he found it necessary to land blue- I
jackets.
OTTDM DC
STERN REFUSAL TO MEET
WILL GO FORWARD TODAY
United States is prepared for possibility of open hostilities after the note
reaches Carranza's hands. While diplomatic steps are in progress, na
tion is stirring through its width and breadth with the movement of na
tional guardsmen mobilizing to guard the border. Their mission now
purely one of defense, but should war come, will also be ready for that.
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire)
WASHINGTON, June 19.-Upqn . General Carranza's reception of a
stern refusal to heed his demands for recall of American troops from
Mexico, hinges the question of a Mexican war, in the opinion of President
Wilson's close advisors.
open hostilities after the note, which will be sent forward tomorrow, has
reached Carranza's hands.
No indication has come that the first chiefs attitude of implicable
hostility would be shaken by the reiterated declaration of the latest com
munication that the United States has no aggressive or war-like pur
poses toward Mexico, but is firmly resolved to protect her borders and
end brigandage in the border states.
The reply to Carranza's note demanding recall of General Persh-
ing's expedition was in the hands of the government printer tonight, pre-
paratory to its delivery
intended to send it torward today, but at the last
'and addition to the 6,000 word document necessitated delav. Although
it had been planned to
. ... . . '
situation has changed and it probably will be handed to-Eliseo Arredon-
clo, Mexican ambassaaor
While the diplomatic steps were
in progress today, the nation was
stirrihg throughout its width and
breadth with the movement of na
tional guardsmen mobilizing to
guard the border. At least 100,000
and possibly a far larger num
ber were preparing for active ser
vice under President Wilson's
call. For the present, their, mis
sion will be purely 4jne of de
fense; but should war come, they
will be ready also for that. No
marching orders for the new
forces had gone out tonight. They
will not be assigned to border duty
until mustered into the federal
service.
Even when mobilization is com'
pleted, only such units will be or
dered south as General Funston
desires to fill the gaps in his 1,800
mile guard line. The remainder will
rest on their arms, and at the -state
mobilization camps for the
present, awaiting the turn of
events.
Official reports from many quar
ters show that a flame of popu
lar feeling against the the United
States is being kindled through
out Mexico. Apparently, it is be
ing done with the sanction of Gen.
Carranza,' for the acts in many
cases are those of his authorized
, military and civil .agents.
From Juarez to the west coast
of Mexico, posters have appeared
calling the people to arms and as
serting that the United States is
preparing to hurl its armies into
Mexico. Chaotic conditions pre
vail everywhere, it is said. Clashes
Entire Arizona Regiment
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DOUGLAS. Ariz.; . June 19. Com
pany. C, of Tempe, the machine gun
platoon and band., of the First Ari
zona Infantry, were mustered into the
federal service today, completing the
regiment. C company was ordered
mustered out several months, ago
and was officially non-existent.'1 as
far as war department records were
concerned. Official permission had to
be secured before the company could
be reinstated and mustered. The
i machine gun company
machine gun company was recently
up in course of an experiment by the
j signal corps at Camp Harry J. Jones,
! a mile east of Douglas.
Two Phoenix Organizations
The First Regiment band and the
machine gun blatoon are Phoenix
organizations. Officers of the old
Company C and the remaining men
had been left unassigned, and the
They were prepared tonight for the possibility of
and publication tomorrow.
send it by special messenger to Mexico City, the
1 "
- designate.
such as that between Mexican
troops and American bluejackets
at Mazatlan yesterday show that
relations are strained to the break
ing point. The act of a subordinate
commander anywhere may bring
on fighting that will result in war.
So far as officials here are
aware, General Carranza is taking
no strong measures to curb his
soldiers and people. Upon this fact
many of them found their belief
that he is determined to force mat
ters to an issue unless the Ameri
can troops are withdrawn.
Neither state department offi
cials nor members of the diplo
TOMMEIlTIfl
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN ANTONIO, June 19. Mexican, government troops were reported
tonight to be marching toward Del Rio, a border town about 100 miles up tho
Rio Grande from Eagle Pass, with the announced intention of attacking the
Americans there. This information was the most notable bit of evidence in
dicating the attitude of the de facto government that reached General Fun
ston today. It was brought to the border by a Mexican who said the force
was 1,500 strong. According to his report, the Mexican troops said they in
tended to attack the Americans tonight, or tomorrow night. It wae-esti mated
that they were about forty miles south of Del Rio.
Col. Frederick W. Sibley, of the Fourteenth cavalry, who commanded
the expedition that entered Mexico, after the GJenn Springs raid, is in com
mand at Del Rio. It-was believed here that he was prepared to take care of
his position, but to make his position more certain. General Greene sent from
Eagle Pass in motor trucks, a battalion of the Third infantry. The batal
ion should arrive at Del Rio before morning.
The Mexican force reported moving north is believed to be the same force
sent north by Gustavo Mireles Espinosa, governor of Coahuila, with instruc
tions to drive Col. Sibley's force from Mexico, when he was operating
south of Glenn Springs.
Has Been Mustered In
company was recruited up to goodly
strength by adding enlistments from
all parts of the state, after the nu
cleus had been gathered at Camp
j Harry J. Jones, near Douglas..
I Fred J. Wrieht. who arrived from
Douglas yesterday, is the organizer
and is commissioned as lieutenant of
the machine gun platoon. He leaves
this week to rejoin the troops and
hopes to takelong-a number of recruits.
Labor Federationists
Republican A. P, Leased Wire
NEW YORK, June 19 The Mexican
consul here gave out for publication
today a telegram received by Modes
to C. Rolland, chairman of a com
mittee of the Mexican Federation of
Labor (La Casa Obrero del Mundial)
from Dr. Atl, the president of the
federation, Mexico City. Rollantl is
in this country, the consul said, in
an., effort to induce the 1 American
Federation of Labor to co-operate
with the Mexican federation, wKlch
Secretary Lansing had
moment, minor changes
matic corps here have been able
to satisfy themselves as to Car
ranza's motives. There are some,
however, who believe he hopes to
ride into popularity by a decided
triumph over his powerful nation
neighbor or upon a war wave
which might reestablish his totter
ing government in popular estima
tion. Once the war was on, and
the certain defeat of his armies
foreshadowed, these observers say,
General Carranza might sue for
peace, trusting to the magnanim
ity of the Washington government
to leave him in power.
(Continued on Page Seven)
The local recruiting stations were
augmented yesterday by an establish
ment at Johnson's, on East; Washing
ton street, where Lieutenant Charles
R. Price, Dan Massie and a bugler
yesterday created interest and re
ceived several enlistments.
It is understood from unofficial
figures that Arizona, with some 1125
men enlisted, now has the highest
percentage of its population in its
national guard of any state.
Would Prevent War
numbers 120,000 skilled workers in
bringing about a peaceful settlement
of the questions in dispute between
the two nations.
The telegram, which has been for
warded to, Samuel Gompers, follows:
"General opinion in Mexico is
against war. However, we will expect
it if Americans force it upon us. By
all means it is Important to make
known to the American public the
rights and duties of both countries to
prevent this unnecessary war."
