Note Flatly Refuses to Withdraw Troops and Rebukes Carranza Government
HARRISBURG tSslllS TELEGRAPH
LXXXV— No. 141
WAR SPIRIT SEETHES IN MEXICO AS U. S.
FLATLY REFUSES TO WITHDRAW TROOPS
WHETHER WAR
FOLLOWS IS UP
TO CARRANZA
Citizens of Both Nations Apparently Are Preparing For
Conflict; Opposing Military Forces Facing Each
Other in Border Region as Mobilization of National
Guard in Every State Is Being Rushed
FIRST CHIEF IN ANOTHER SPEECH HOPES
THAT HOSTILITIES MAY BE AVOIDED
Virtual Declaration of War Served on U. S. Gunboat Com
mander by Governor of Sinaloa Following Clash Be
tween Bluejackets and Mexicans; Carranza Troops
Reported Marching on American Town With Intention
of Attacking
P; AsjrxUTc: Press
San Antonio. June JO.—General Funston to-day requested the
War Department to send as soon as possible a large part of the
National Guard to lie stationed along the Mexican boundary "from
Brownsville to the Pacific Ocean."
General Funston did not make public the number requested but■
e aid he had asked for enough to provide "adequate protection 'of the,
border.
General Funston explained that in making this request he acted
only on the presumption that he was securing an army for defense
and that the stations selected had been chosen with that idea in
mind ; that if it became necessary to organize an army of invasion
he would supplement the request of to-day with one for the remaind
er of the guard.
Those asked for to-dav include units from all hranchcs of the
service. He assumed that the first to be sent probably would be
those from New York. Illinois and Pennsylvania.
So far as possible the State troops will enter the border service
with unbroken units. Regin>ents will be kept intact, and if possible
the division organizations will be maintained.
Washington. June 20.—General Funston's request for National
Guardsmen resulted in telegraphic requests for information as to
when the forces of certain States would be able to move. Orders
for entrainment of units ready for service were expected before
night.
Washington. June 20.—1n the face of a multitude of reports in
dicating seething war spirit throughout Mexico, the United States';
emphatic refusal to withdraw General Pershing's expedition was
communicated officially to General Carranza to-day.
Whether the result will mean war depends on the Mexicans and
General Carranza is so informed. Citizens of both nations apparently
are preparing for it. Opposing military forces are facing each other
in the border region. Moblization of the National Guard in every State
was being rushed to-day.
Hopes Hostilities May Be Avoided
General Carranza in another speech at Mexico City, however,
has expressed the hope that hostilities may be avoided. Even while
these assurances were being conveyed came reports that Mexicans
were enlisting for military service under the impression that the
United States' armies are about to attack Mexico
Serves Virtual Declaration of War
An ultimatum said to be virtually a declaration of war has been
served on Commander Kavanaugh of the United States gunboat
Annapolis by General Florcs, Garranza governor of the state of
Sinaloa, west coast, it is reported to the naval authorities. The'
hostile stand grew out of the clash Sunday at Mazatlan between
bluejackets from the Annapolis and Mexicans, resulting in casualties
on both sides.
Marching on American Town
Mexican government troops were reported last night marching
on Del Rio, 100 miles up the Rio Grande from Eagle Pass, with the
intention of attacking.
With President Wilson's firm refus-,
ll to withdraw American troops from
Mexico on its way to the de facto
government, embodied in a note stern
ly arraigning the whole course of
General Carranza in the situation
which has brought tne two countries
to the verge of war, the administra
tion continued to-day its preparations
to meet any emergency that may arise
arise.
War or peace rests with General
Carranza. The position of the United
States is pointedly set forth in its re-
N
ft
Just a Reminder
Before you start on your vaca
tion, don't forget to order the IHar
risburg Telegraph mailed to your
vacation address. You will jvant
to know what's doing—you don't
, want to come back ignorant of
everything worth while that's hap
pened during your absence.
Drop a postal or call the Circu-
I latlon Department.
BY CARRIERS O CFIMTS \ WEEK.
IIIVGLE < OPIES J i BNTB.
view of the apparent inability of Car
ranza to prevent border raids and to
keep the obligation he owes the world
by the preservation of order in his
dominions.
Secretary Baker, busv at the War >
Department with details of the mobil- !
ization of the National Guard for bor
der defense duty went to the White
House a few minutes before to-dav's :
Cabinet meeting for a private confer- !
ence with the President.
Hold Militia Ht'.-ol ti I ion
Administration leaders in Congress !
.decided not to seek immediate action
on a resolution to provide for making
the National Guard eligible for for
eign service, fearing that such a step
lat this time might be construed by
the Mexican government as a war like
now to deal with any emergency
across the Mexican border, and if it
S should become necessary to send in j
j guardsmen the resolution then could !
j be rushed through.
(Other Mexican News Pases I. 5. II)
STAKT WILSON S CAMPAIGN
j New York, June 20. National
Democratic headquarters were es
tablished here to-day and plans laid ;
for the campaign for the re-election
of Woodrow Wilson. Vance C. McCor
| mick, the new national chairman, ar- |
I rived from Washington and after a i
conference with party leaders an
nounced that he would return to con
fer with President Wilson in Washing
ton to-night. He will place before the
President the names of eleven men
, said to have been tentatively selected
as probable members of the campaign
| committee.
HARRISBURG, PA., TUESDAY EVENING, JUNE 20, 1916.
'
WHY ARE WE GRINNING? IT'S TELEGRAPH PICNIC DAY! I
s J
With their tvineh boxes tucksd safely under their «rms, hundreds of youngfters met at the city school buildings
hefore the arrival of the cars to take them to Paxtang Park for the Telegraph picnic. Above Is shown 'a group
f happy hoys and girls at the start of the day's flliu Below on the left la "Biff Buster," watching the deer In the
:oo at the park, and on the right are four of the thousands about to take a ride on the roller coaster.
LONG CONTINUED
CRIMES AGAINST
U.S.CITEDINNOTE
By Associated Press
Washington. June 20.—The American note flatly rejecting Gen-1
eral Carranza's demand for the withdrawal of the United States!
troops from Mexico and rebuking the Carranza government for the •
discourteous tone and temper of its last communication was handed
to-day by Eliseo Arredondo, the Mexican ambassador designate.
Long continued outrages against Americans and their property (
both in Mexico and on American soil arc reviewed in the note and
warning given that the troops will be kept in Mexico until such a
time as the defacto government performs the duty which the United
States ha> not sought, that of pursuing the bandits who ought to be
arrested and punished by the Mexican government.
It concludes with the statement that if the defacto government
continues to ignore this obligation and carries out its threat to defend
its territory by an appeal to arms against the American troops the
gravest consequences will follow.
"While this government would deeply regret such a result." sav*
the note, "it cannot recede from its settled determination to maintain
its national rights and to perforin its full duty in preventing; further
invasions of the territory of the United States and in removing the peril
which Americans along the international boundry have borne so long
with patience and forebearance."
"I am reluctant to be forced to the conclusion which might be
drawn from the circumstances." Secretary Lansing declares, "that the
defacto government, in spite of the crimes committed and the sinister
designs of Villa and his followers, did not and does not now intend or
desire that these outlaws should be captured, destroyed or dispersed
by American troops, or, at the request of this government. by Mexican
I troops"
The purposes of the United States government towards Mexico,!
questioned in the last Mexican note, are announced in the following
language:
|
"Tf a denial is needed that this government has had ulterior and
improper motives in its diplomatic representations, or has countenanced
the activities of American sympathizers and the American press op
posed to the defacto government. I am glad, most emphatically to
deny it. It is. however, a matter of common knowledge that the Mexi
can press has been more active than the press In the United States in
endeavoring to inflame the two peoples against each other and to force
the two countries into hostilities."
[Continued oil Page ll]
YOUNG MAN DROWNS;
CANOE OVERTURNED
The Susquehanna river, flooded '
! from the recent rains, last night took
toll of another human life when Her
bert Shaner, aged 22, of 1326 Dcrry
street, was. drowned near York Haven.,
Shaner. with J. C. Miller, were in n
1 canoe near the east bank of the river
at Collins. Cross currents turned over
the frail craft and Shaner came up
but once. Miller managed to save
himself by climbing on the overturned 1
boat and floating to a concrete pier j
< where he climbed a ladder to safety.
Shaner was employed by the El
liott-Kisher Typewriter Company. He
was a second year man in the Whar- I
ton Extension School and his school- j
mates will take action on his death at
a meeting to-morrow. The drowned
youth is the son of the Rev. W. !
Shaner, of Columbia. His parents, a
sister and brother survive him. A
reward has been offered for the re
covery of hrls body. i
COULD MAKE CITY
MUNITION CENTER
Vast Possibilities For Manu
facture of Ordnance in
Harrisburg
In case of war with Mexico or any,
other country, Harrisburg will be able
to turn out munitions in great quanti
ties. believe local military experts.
This city with the Harrisburg Pipe
& Pipe Bending Works. Pennsylvania
Steel Company, Foundry and Machine
Works and Elliott-Fisher Typewriter
Company could be made the center
of shrapnel and cartridge manufac
ture throughout Central Pennsylvania.
The pipe works up until a short
time ago was turning out 5,000 414-
inch shrapnel shells for the British
government and within a very short
time this plant could be making sim
ilar shells for Uncle Sam in equal
quantities. The Pennsylvania Steel
would be of great value to the ord
nance department of the government
because of its vast steel manufactur
ing possibilities. It is now turning
out greut quantities of steel "rounds"
and shrapnel forgings for the French
govern ment.
The Foundry and Machine and Fl
llott-Fisher Companies, experts say, j
could be used in the manufacture of 1
the smaller parts of rifles and in turn
ing out cartridge parts.
Light armor for armored motor
cars, armored plate for ships of the
line and similar munitions can be
made by the Central Iron and Steel ■
Plant.
While no accurate estimates can 1
possibly be given as to the exact
quantities without a very careful in
\ entory, it is conceded that the muni
tion product of Harrisburg and its vl- I
cinity would be very large.
THE WEATHER
For llnrrlshurg mill vicinity: Fair
to-night null probably \\ ednes
«'n.v» not much change In tem
perature.
For lOastern Prnnnyhnnlßi Prob
ably fair to-night an<l \\ ednes
dayt moderate temperatures light
northwest winds. |
River
All «t renins of the Susquehanna
river N.vatem will fall except the
Lpper North Branch and the
West llraneh liclon < learfleld
which Will rise slightly or re
main nearly stationary to-alght
and prohahly fall Wednesday A
stage of about 10.1 feet In Indicat
ed for Harrisburg Wednesday
morning.
General Conditions
Pressure in low over North Atlan
tic roam district* and in the
Hooky Mountains and the South
west. Showers have fallen In the
Missouri. Middle Mississippi an d
Ohio valleys. Including Tennes
see and In the Middle and North
Atlantic States.
It is 2 to 12 degrees cooler over
most of the territory west of the
Rocky Mountains, In the Middle
Atlantic States and the I nner St
l.awrence Valley.
Tempernturei 8 n. m., D 2.
Sunt Hisas, 4i3U a. m.t sets, 7i3tl
p, m.
Moon: l.ast quarter, June 22, Still
a. nt.
Klvcr ■since: 11.11 feet above lon -
• water mark.
V estcrdaj*s Weather
Highest temperature. 76.
I.owest temperature. H2.
Mean temperature, 60.
Normal temperature. 71. i
14 PAGES
CHILDREN BY !
THOUSANDS AT !
SCHOOL PICNIC
"Sure Is a Whale" of an Out
ing Take It From Anybody
Who Is There
GUESTS OF TELEGRAPH
Band, Track At lit' tics. Baseball,
Spelling Bee Entertain
Youngsters
If you were luckless enough to he a
mere grown-up visitor in Paxtang
i Park to-day you certainly felt like a. '
' fish out of water, didn't you?
! To-day was the Telegraph's first an- ;
I nual picnic day for Hcrrisburg's school
children! 'Xv.ff sed?
How many thousands of youngsters
i of every age under fifteen or sixteen —j
i front the wee girl or hoy who had to
be wheeled to the park in a baby
j coach to his older brother or sister |
who has already done things in grani-
I mar school track or field meet or play
! ground tournament—can't possibly be
| figured until the returns are all in.
| And that may not be for a day or two.
After the earlier oarioads had emptied
[Continued on Prgc 11
RRKAI) mors IN tiRKKCK
By Associated I'ress
Athens. June 20. Bread riots are
reported at Patras, Aigina. Malias and
Agrinion. The Greek general staff has
been unable to demobilize three army
j corps in Macedonia owing to the hold
ing up of the ships which had been
requisitioned for their passage home
by the blockade. Some Pireus ship
pers lodges protests to-dya at the em
i hasies or the allies against the contin
uance of the blockade and others have i
! discharged their crews. '
ji REPORT MASSACRE OF AMERICANS |
Brownsville, Tex., June 20.—Passengers arriving at f
* * y
[ rent in Monterey that a party of Americans at Cerralvo, 5
; i
by Mexicans.
jj CHANCES OVERWHELMINGLY FOR WAR ,
** WASHINGTON, JUNE 20.-r-AT T JINET
i; MEL LING THE OPINION PREVAILED THAT THE
\ l CHANCES WERE OVERWHELMINGLY IN THE DI-' '
, • RECTION OF WAR. THE ONE HOPE WAS THAT
JI GENERAL CARRANZA WOULD BE IMPRESSED BY 1 '
'j THE MILITARY PREPARATIONS OF THE UNITED
STATES « 1
Berlin, June 20, via London. German troops have
•1 northwest of Lut.sk and are fighting their way forward, the
I • u office announced to-day. 1
iO'NEIL AND MAGEE MEET GOVERNOR i [
A meeting of J. Denny O'Ncil, of McKeesport, the local
option leader in Western Pennsylvania, and William A. ,
Magee, Public Service Commissioner and Brumbaugh lead
er in Allegheny county, in the office of the Governor this
afternoon set Capitol 11 ill buying. Mr. O'Ncil hc.s been* '
• mentioned tor the State Highway Commissionership to sue-' r
ceed the late Robert J. Cunningham. Earlier in the d
I Charles E. Patton, Secretary of Agriculture, who is also® I
talked of for the place, saw the Go nor !
has also been in touch with William D. Uhler, the chief I I
engineer of the department, and it is believed that some- I
tiling will be doing on the commissionership very soon.-k
The parties of to-day's conference declined to talk except to [
say a plan for public improvements was talked of. f
1 SHOOT AT STARS AND STRIPES 1 '
Douglas, Ariz., June 20.—The American flag flying over
I the hotel in which was located the office of American Consul' *
W. A. Julian, at Cananea, .was made the target of hundreds
i of Mexican bullets. J >
, MAIUiIAUK UCEK&US I I
J J«lin Hnmnrri SrlUrr and Blair l.ena l.avrrlj, .Wlddlrtou n.
J Hrnnk John tn«k and Mary rttT.
f (.ordon Huttrrvrortli, Philndrl phln. and Klale L*alle Bvaoa, city.
» i
CITY EDITION
'ENLISTED YET?
IS QUERY HEARD
ALL OVER CITY
Nearly Hundred Men Here
Seek Chance to Serve
Country's Flag
SOON DRILL RECRUITS
"Rookies' Will Be Put Through
Paces in Open Beginning
Thursday Morning
"Enlisted yet?"
Jokingly or seriously, that was tlr
| uppermost question that was univer
sally popped where men met to-day ir.
i train and trolley, o'tii f and store, bani
an d poolroom, street corner and fac
tory floor.
in the armories of Companies 1J
(Continued on Pnjre I]
/ *
Display Stars and
Stripes, Urges Mayor j
Mayor MeaU to-day lusueil the •
follnvilni proclamation:
"The Pro* Mo lit of the I'nlted |
Mate*, unilcr bin Coiifttltutloitnl {
power, huvlnjc called to the color* I
the orunnlrfil militia and National
l«uard of the nevet-al State*, of u lilcli
the Keystone State In which we ltv» j
I* one of the foremont. and the Gov- \
e f nop of thi«« stntc liaviiiß l*i»iied ;
order* for The mobilization or tne
troop* of thin State, a* Mayor of the j
t'lty of llai-ri*hiirK. I eall upon all l
citizen* to ilUpla> the national j
color* on hn*inc«M huildiiiK* nntl J
ditrinu thl* period of mill- J
tnry activity In dcfeit*c of the na
tion'* honor, that once more the Haji
may tentlfy to the nation'* % Irlllty.
It* lonK-e*tahli*hed reputation fn»
loyalty, and it* hearty Nympathy j
with the P«*ej»ldent In all 1
neee**ary to the preservation of na- 1
tlonal honor and the protection of J
' life and property/* I
