H "1 1
Tloday's Metal Prices fff A tl iV X k SL"f VV'VvXvV'V'X 1 4 P. M. CITY EDITION I
I . new l i I P ti n LP L 1 1 S'JLcL 1 LU li i LI lIL5L I
I New York, June 20. Silver, 64 1-8c; sLPJP W m rr ' V ''V W T T WEATHERJahT'Ge H
lead, $6.85: spelter, $13.00; copper, - k v - v Tonight and Wednesday? Slightly H
H $27.5029.25. CI Z Warmer Tonight and In East Portion H
H - - Wednesday. IH
FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. .
I Fyth YcarNo -147' Pr" F've Centa. ' OGDEN CITY, UTAH, TUESDAY EVENING, JUNE 20, 1916. Entered as Second CI... Matter at th. Partoff.ee, Oflden, Utah. H
General Punston Wires War Department I
I to Rush National Guards to the Border I
! MILITIA UNITS UNDER ORDERS TO
: ENIRAIN FOR SOUTH TONIGHT
t
Eastern Guards Recruiting and Rushing Mobilization Car
ranza Soldiers Approaching General Pershing's Head
t quarters at Namiquipa and Assuming Provocative
I Attitude Toward American Army.
: HOSTILITIES EXPECTED AT ANY MOMENT
Columbus, N. M., June 20. American and Carranza
troops are in close proximity south of Namiquipa with the
. ' Mexicans taking a provocative altitude, according to reports
reaching here today from the front. Dispatches received here
were interpreted as meaning that there might be acts of hos
tility in the immediate future, although General J. J. Pershing
is said to be making every effort to avoid a conflict.
San Antonio, Texas, June 20. General Funston today
requested the war department to send him as soon as possible
a large part of the national guardsmen to be stationed along
the Mexican boundary "from Brownsville to the Pacific
ocean."
i
Washington, June 20. General Funston's request for
national guardsmen reached the war department afternoon and
resulted in telegraphic requests for information as to when
, the forces of certain states would be able to move. Orders for
entrainment of units ready for service were expected before
night.
i
Wheeling. W.f Va .June 20. The
.'nirs of the members of the Uni-
- form Rank oT th Junior Order" of
United American Mechanics in life
' oeni of war with Mexico, have been
tendered Secretary of War Newton
Hal-er by the supreme commnndery
V itow m session here. Richard F.
. rhane, supreme commander, said
, ibat between 3000 and 5000 men could
- te organized quickly for duty. Dele
gateb representing lodges in eleven
1 ttates are attending the meeting
trhich will close today following the
election of officers.
i
: Spain Asked to Mediate.
Madrid, via Paris, June 19, 11:20
p. in King Alfonso has received a
telegram from a committee represent-
? Ing the Spanish colony in Mexico City
i appealing to him to offer to mediate
1 between Mexico and the United States
eo as to prevent war. The committee
sent cablegrams at the same time to
s the Spanish press association and the
governments and press of the South
American republics asking their sup
port for Uie proposed mediation by
the king.
Red Cross Offers Hospitals.
Chicago, June 20. Four base hos
pitals of 500 beds each and costing
?160,000 wil be the contribution of
9, the Chicago branch of the Red Cross
, to the event of war with Mexico, ac
cording to an announcement today.
1 This was the result of a conference
between national and local officers
ol the American Red Cross yesterday
fcUeruocm.
Army Officers Promoted.
Yuma, Ariz., June 20. Announce
ment was made today that the follow
to& promotions had been recommend
i d as a result of examinations of of
ficers held here yesterday by a spe
cial board, acting under instructions
9 from the war department:
J The following promotions were rec
U Amended: Captain. Horace M. Rob
ja prison, to major; Lieutenants George
j C.Rockwell, Roy E. Glass, and James
l ., " Woolnough, to captains; Second
f ' Weirtenants Baird, Taylor, Guy I.
Jowe, Joseph T. McNarney, Clyde R
jj flsenschmldt, to first lieutenants.
9 t Chaffeurs Afraid to Return.
' Columbus, N. M., June 20. A num
I j Jr of civilian chaffeurs employed
( living army motor supply trucks
;ere arrested today when they re-
jjised, upon their arrival from the
Bj i Held, to return immediately with sup
ra Mea. Later they were released upon
El Promise to comply with the orders.
g Mexican Murderer Captured.
I Brownwood, Texas, June 20. Gero-
S nlmo Lerlraq, the Mexican suspected
g J assaulting Mrs. W. U. Klrkcndall
ffi jThllo she slept here early today was
k !nd later by a posse about ten
y pHes from here and immediately shot
Ji ! to death.
A )
$ ' . Banks Move Gold Reserve.
i -ti.,,, shlnston' June 20. Comptroller
Ijj Williams announced today that he had
-J,
authorised one of the largest national
banks on the Mexican border to re
jnoye its gold reserve .qr an. inland
city "for fear of a Mexican attack. He
declined to tell whore the bank was
located, but said it was not in El
Paso.
Carranzistas Fire on Americans.
El Paso, Texas. June 20. An admis
sion that the Mexicans who fired upon
the American expedition retiring from
Mexico near Matamoros last Saturday
were Carranzistas, not bandits, was
contained in a message received to
day at the Mexican consulate from H.
Perez Abrep, director of the de facto
consular service.
The message says:
"On last Saturday there crossed up
on Mexican territory near Matamoros
an American foe on the pretext of pur
suing bandits. After an exchange of
fire with us which resulted in one
dead and one wounded on our part,
the Americans withdrew to their own
side."
Resolution In Abeyance.
Washington, Juno 20. Administra
tion leaders in congress decided 'not
to seek immediate action on a resolu
tion to provide for making the nation
al guard eligible for foreign service,
fearing that such a step at this time
might be construed by the Mexican
government as a warlike act. Enough
regulars are available now to deal
with any emergency across the Mexl
can border. If it should become nec
essary to send in guardsmen, the res
olution then could be rushed through.
Reports to the war department in
dicated that the mobilization was pro
ceeding satisfactorily.
nn
NAVY CALLING
FOR AEROPLANES
Machines for Scout Duty Being
Put Aboard Armored Crusier
Hydrogen Plants, Kite
Balloons and Other
Devices Carried.
Washington, June 20. For the first
time In tho history of the American
navv experiments to determine the
availability of hydro-aeroplanes for
scout duty at sea are to be undertaken
during tho summer maneuvers of the
Atlantic fleet. Six of the seaplanes
are now being put aboard tho armored
cruiser North Carolina, station ship
at the Pensacola navy aviation sta
tion, which has been ordered to take
part In the maneuvers.
The North Carolina is fitted with a
catapulting device by means of which
hydro-aeroplanes can be shot out into
the air, no matter how rough tho sea.
The device was recently perfected and
is an advance over anything in for
eign navies. Heretofore it has been
possible to use the aircraft only in
calm weather when they could be
dropped over-side and raise from the
surface of the water.
The North Carolina will be fitted
also with a hydrogen geenarling plant
and carry a kite balloon for obser
vation and fire spotting. Officers iu
the basket of the balloon connected
with the ship by telephone, will direct
the fire of the guns If the plan works
out successfully every fighting ship
in the navy will be similarly equipped .
yu
AMERICANS KILLED
IN MINING TOWN
Brownsville, Texas, June 20. Pas
sengers arriving at Matamoros, oppo
site here today, reported a rumor was
current in Monterey that a party of
Americans at Cerrilavo, an isolated
mining town in Nuevo Leon, were
massacred by Mexicans.
As far as known here, there is only
one American in Cerrilavo His name
it James Hughes. A woman arrival
also reported t4ia.t some Americans
were taken from the train outside of
Monterey and were reported to have
been killed.
Brownsville, Texas, June 20 The
body of William Browne, a brother of
Mayor Albert Biowne of this city, was
found in the Rio Grande river on the
Mexican side, ten miles south of Ma
1 tamoros today. Browne is said to have
been last seen in Matamoros Satur
day afternoon. He is believed to have
been murdered-
San Antonio, Tex.. June 20. That
the last American left Cerrilavo more
than a month ago is the belief, of of
ficials of the Penads Mining com
pany, which has holdings at Cerrilavo.
11. C. Carsen of San Antonio has a
mine in operation there but remained
the last foreigner from Cerrilavo sev
eral weeks ago. J
OO
MOB SHOOTS hi
AMERICAN FLAO
Hundreds of Mexican Bullets
Fired at Hotel in Cananea
Men Shout Maledictions
at Gringoes.
Douglas. Arizona, June 20 The
American flag 'flying over the hotel
in 'which was located the office of
American consul W. A. Julian at Can
anea, was made the target of hundreds
of Mexican bullets during the anti
American demonstration last Saturday
night, according to American refugees
arriving here today After daybreak,
when the demonstration ended, tho
emblem still flaunted in the breeze.
Numerous bullets struck the hotel,
endangering the guests, who were
nearly all Americans. The mob shout
ed maledictions against tho 'gringoes."
After filling the flag with holes the
mob directed its fire at the flag pole
but were unable to cut it.
About 650 Americans reached the
zordqr today from Cananea. The re
fugees composed practically the en
tire American population of the town.
General Calles announced that he
had lifted the embargo on Sonora tele
phone and telegraph lines that Ameri
can consular representatives might
send warnings urging Americans to
leave the state He specified, how
over, that all messages must be writ
ten in Spanish.
NINE KILLED IN
A W!N0 STORM
Southeastern Colorado Swept
by Terrific Gale Tele
phone Lines Are
Prostrate.
Denver, Colo., June 20. Nine per
sons were hurt, two probably fatally,
by a wind storm that last night swept
southern Prowers county, southeast
ern Colorado, according to meager ad
vices reaching here today. Telephone
communication with tho district was
prostrated.
oo
For parcel post purposes there has
been invented a bag sewed to the bot-l
torn of which. Is a flat tag for address
and stamp.
RUSS CHASING
THE AUSTRIANS
Rear of Bukowina Army Beat
ing Hasty Retreat Czar's
Troops Cover Thirteen
Miles a Day.
AUSTRIAN ARMY SPLIT
Russian Forces Occupy Three
More Towns on the
River Sereth.
London, June 20, 5 -'17 p. m. The
Russians are pressing close to the
rear of the Austrians in Bukowina,
who were compelled to retreat hastily
after the fall of Czernowitz. Reuter's
Petrograd correspondent says the
Russians covered thirteen miles in
one day in advancing southward fioru
Czernowitz, and that the army of Gen
eral Pflanser is believed to have been
split into two or more regiments.
Petrograd, June 20. Via Loudon,
130 p. m. The occupation by Rus
sian troops of the towns of Seadova.
Stroginetz and Gliboka, on the river
Sereth, was announced by the war
office today.
Berlin, June 20 Via London, 5:05
p. m. German troops have broken the
resistance of the Russians at various
points northwest of Lutsk and are
fighting their way forward, the war
office announced today.
Paris, June 20, 11.30 a. m. Three
German attacks made last night on
the French positions northwest of
i Hill No 321, were repulsed by the fire
'of the French machine gAingj acccmk
ing to an officiaT'statement Issued to
day by the war office The Germans
are heavily bombarding the French
positions in the neighborhood of
Vaux, Chapitre and Chattancourt.
HUNGER SILLS
CARRANZA ARMY
Starving Peons Flock to Bor
der on Promises of Food
and Clothing.
GRAPHIC STORIES TOLD
Mexicans Are Desperate From
Starvation and Liable to At
tack American Supply
Trains.
El Paso, TexaB, Juno 20. Hunger Is
swelling the army that General Car
ranza is recruiting In northern Mexico,
In preparation for possible hostilities
with the United States, according to
stories brought here today by Ameri
cans arriving from the Interior. Peons,
who for some time have been on the
verge of starvation, have been flock
ing to his standard In the last few
days, in return for promises of food
and clothing, they said. No applicants
have been rejected, according to
stones, which told of boys of ten and
twelve years old and men too aged
to stand erect being recruited.
One of the arrivals, an American
businessman of Mexico City, estimat
ed that there are now 25,000 Carranza
troops in Chihuahua state, of whom
about 2,000 are in Chihuahua City,
1,000 in Juarez and 5,000 in Villa
Ahumada, tho northern Chihuahua
base, which is 63 miles south of El
Paso. The remainder practically sur
round tho American expeditionary
command on the south, east and west.
Ho said also that several thousand
troops, which had been at Chihuahua
City recontly were sent toward San
Antonio and Mndera, ostensibly to bo
stationed along tho lino of the Mexico
Northwestern railway south of General
Pershing's command.
Graphic Stories Told.
The refugees brought, with them
graphic stories of economic conditions.
One man said that he and his fellow
passengers would have starved had
not tho train stopped at times long
enough to allow them to get out and
eat raw beans from fields. Another
said he had vainly offered five dollars
American gold for a tortilla.
"The Mexicans are desperate," a
j refugee from the El Valle district said.
"Even though their attitude otherwise
might be friendly, hunger is apt to
SHE'S THE BABY OF
THE HUGHES FAMILY
Miss Elizabeth Hughes.
Miss Elizabeth Hughes is tho
daughter of former Justice and Mrs.
Charles E. Hughes. She is the baby
of the family and goes to school in
Washington.
force them to attack an American
supply train.
Both El Paso and Juarez remained
outwardly calm today, but in both
towns, soldiers were kept close to
their camps. The number of Ameri
cans crossing into Juarez today was
smaller than usual, but none of them
reported any manifestations of hostili
Xy.JSducatedMexJcans, some of whom
have been living in El Paso and others
who have arrived here recently, from
interior points in the United States,
have been crossing the lrontier in
large numbers recently, asserting that
their place in the crisis is with their
people
T. D. Edwards, United Slates consul
in Juarez, established a desk in the
American customs house for the trans
action of diplomatic business. He de
nied that the consulate is to be closed
but said that if is to remain in charge
of a clerk, open at specified hours
for the transaction of commercial
business.
Detachments detailed by General
Francisco Gonzales, on the Mexican
sido of the Rio Grande, and General
George Bell, Jr., on the American
side, to Investigate reports that a
body of an American, killed in Texas,
had been found on the Chihuahua side,
reported they were unable to find any
trace of such a body.
oo
COAST GUARDS
ARE ASSEMBLING
Ten Thousand Militiamen to
Be Ready to Entrain for
Border in Short Order.
San Francisco, June 20 National
guardsmen up and down the Pacific
coast planned to begin assembling to
day at the various state mobilization
camps In response to President Wil
son's call for men for service on tho
Mexican border. Between 9,000 and
10,000 militiamen in California, Ore
gon, Washington, Montana and Idaho,
will be mobilized within three or four
days, ready and eager to entrain for
the south, according to tho state adju
tants general.
Applicants for enlistment crowded
recruiting stations yesterday. In
Portland they came so fast the surg
eons did not have time to examine
all. Militia officers said the war
strength could bo reached within ten
days.
From Alaska came roports today
that a regiment of infantry will be
organized immediately after the army
reorganization bill takes effect July
1. There Is no militia in Alaska now,
but a regiment Is authorized In the
bill. Movements toward tho forma
tion of companies have already start
ed In Fairbanks and Juneau.
Many western firms have announc
ed that all their employes who go
with the militia will have their posi
tions open to them on their return.
Several Portland employers declared
they would support tho soldiers' fam
ilies, if necessary. A few said they
would pay their absent men half their
salaries during their military service.
MEXICAN DE FACTO GOVERNMENT I
WARNED AND SEVERELY REBUKED I
Lansing Hands Note to Ambassador Whether Result Means H
War Depends on the Mexicans and Carranza Is So In- H
formed Long Continued Outrages Against Amcri- H
cans and Their Property Reviewed and Gov- H
ernment Warned That Gravest Conse- JM
quences Will Follow.
Washington, June 20. With Presi
dent Wilson's firm refusal to withdraw
American troops from Mexico on its
way to the de facto government, em
bodied in a note sternly arraigning
the whole course of General Carranza
In the situation which has brought
the two countries to the verge of war,
the administration continued to make
Us preparations to meet any emer
gency that may arise.
War or peace rests with General
Carranza. The position of the United
States is pointedly set forth in its re
view of the apparent inability of Car
ranza to provent border raids and to
keep the obligation he owes the world
by the preservation of order in his do
mains. Secretary Lansing had a private
conference with President Wilson be
fore today's meeting.
War Is Inevitable.
At the cabinet meeting the opinion
prevailed that the chances were over
whelmingly in the direction of war.
The one hope was that General Car
ranza would be impressed by the mili
tary preparations of the United States
and make no further effort to have
American troops withdrawn. There
has been no indication, however, that
Carranza's intentions are peaceful,
and every move now is being planned
in the belief that hostilities may begin
at any moment.
Washington, June 20 The Ameri
can note flatly rejecting General Car
ranza's demand for the withdrawal
of United States troops from Mexico
and rebuking the Carranza govern
ment for the discourteous tone and
temper of Its last communication was
handed today to Eliseo Arredondo, tho
Mexican ambassador designate.
"I am leluctant to bo forced to the
conclusion, which might be drawn
from the circumstances," Secretary
Lanslng declared, 'that the de facto
government, in spite of the crimes
committed and the sinister designs of
Villa and his followers, did not, and
does not now, intend, or desire, that
those outlaws should be captured, de
stroyed or dispersed by American
troops or at the request of this gov
ernment by Mexican troops."
United States Determined.
"While this government would deep
ly regret such a course" the note says,
"it cannot recede from its settled de
termination to main.tain its national
rights and to perform its full duty in
preventing further invasions of thrt
territory of the United States and In
removing the peril which Americans
along the international boundary have
borne so long with patience and for
bearance."
U. S. Attitude Stated.
The purposes of the United States
government towards. Mexico, question
ed In the last Mexican note, are an
nounced In the following language:
"If a denial Is needed that this gov
ernment has had ulterior and Improper
motives In Its diplomatic representa
tions, or has countenanced the activi
ties of American sympathizers and the
American press opposed to the tie
facto governmen . I am glad most em
phatically to deny it. It is. however, a
matter of common knowledge that the
Mexican press has been more active
than the press of the United States In
endeavoring to inflame the two peo
ples against each other and to force
the two countries Into hostilities."
Text of Lansing Note.
The text of the note follows:
The secretary of state to the secre
tary of foreign relations of tho de
facto government of Mexico:
Department of State, Washington,
June 20, 1916.
Sir: I have your communication
which was delivered to me on May
22, 1916, under Instructions of the
chief executive of the de facto govern
ment of Mexico on the subject of the
presence of American troops in Mexi
can territory and I would be wanting
In candor if I did not, before making
answer to the allegations of fact and
conclusion reached by you govern
ment express the surprise and regret
which have been caused this govern
ment by the discourteous tone and
temper of this last communication
from the do facto government of Mex
ico. Mexican Situation Reviewed.
The government or the United
States has viewed with deep concern
and Increasing disappointment the
progress of the revolution in Mexico.
Continuous bloodshed and disorders IH
have marked its progress. For three jH
years the Mexican republic has been jH
torn with civil strife; the lives of IH
Americans aud other aliens have been H
sacrificed; vast properties developed M
by American capital and enterprise fl
have been destroyed, or rendered non-
productive; bandits have been per- IH
mitted to roam at will through the H
territory contiguous to the United Rl
States aid to seize, without punish- H
ment, or Avithout effective attempt at H
punishment, the property of Amerl-
cans, while the lives of citizens of the H
United States who ventured to remain M
in Mexican territory, or to return M
there to protect their Interests have IH
been taken, in some cases barbarous- IH
ly taken, and the murderers have M
neither been apprehended nor brought M
to justice. It would be difficult to H
find In the annals of the history of H
Mexico conditions more deplorable H
than those which have existed there H
during these recent years of civil war. H
Mexican Outrages. H
It would bo tedious to recount in- H
stance after Instance, outrage after i H
outrage, atrocity after atrocity, to 11- j H
lustrate the true natare and extent of ' H
the widespread conditions of lawless- H
ness and violence which have prevail- H
ed. During the past nine months tho ' H
frontier of the United Spates along H
the lower Rio Grande has been thrown H
into a state of constant apprehension H
and turmoil because of frequent and H
sudden incursions into American terri- H
tory and depredations and murders 0 H
on American soil by Mexican bandits H
who have taken the lives and destrcjy- H
ed the property of American citizens, H
sometimes carrying American citizens H
across the international boundary H
with the booty seized. American gar- H
rlsons have been .attacked at night, H
American soldiers killed and their H
equipment and horses stolen. Amerl- i H
can ranchen have been raided, pro- j H
perty stolen and destroyed and Amer- I
icaij trains wrecked and plundered. ' '
Tri attacks on Brownsville, Red jl
lluse Ferry, Progresso postoffice and H
is Peladas, all occurring during Sep- 9
tember last, are typical. In these at- jfl
tacks on American territory Carran- M
zlsta adherents and even Carranzlsta M
soldiers took part In the looting, burn- H
Ing and killing Not only were theso H
murderers characterized by nithless i
brutality, but uncivilized acts of mutl- r
lation were perpetrated Ropresenta- iH
tions wore made to General Carranza H
and he was emphatically requested to ijH
stop these reprehensible acts in a sec- M
tion which he has long claimed to be fl
under the complete domination of his M
authority Notwithstanding these re- J
presentations and the promise of Gen- M
eral Nafarette to prevent attacks fl
along the International boundary, In fl
the following month of October a pan- H
senger train was wrecked by bandits jl
and several persons killed seven mllefl jJ
north of Brownsville and an attack H
was made upon United States troops H
at the same place several days later. H
(Continued on Page 3.) - H
ARMORED CRUISER I
STARTSJOUTH I
Admiral Winslow's Flagship H
Leaves San Diego for Mexi- H
can Port Three Torpedo js
Boat Destroyers flB
Follow. U
San Diego, Cal., June 20. With Ad- f M
mlral C. McR. Wlnslow, commander- iH
in-chief of the Pacific fleet aboard, H
tho armored cruiser San Diego, flag- -B
ship o. the Pacific fleet, sailed from H
this port at 7:30 o'clock this morning M
for either Guaymas or Mazatlan. l
Two hours after tho San Diego loft Hll
port the torpedo boat destroyers Hull, llH
Truxtun, and Hopkins sailed ifor the 11
south, It was stated that the destroy-
ors are under orders to overtake the 11
San Diego and that at that time they IU
will be given station orders by Ad- Ifll
mlral Wlnslow. Ill
-2 I - - n, i ' IV H
I TONIGHT- rrs -iliiUf Q A PICTURES Mothers, Fathers, Don't Miss This ' 1 1
j Last Time to See JL AV 1 1 1 g H L )J 1 13 fc? P Women at 7:30; Men at 9 p. m.-at the ORPHEUW , j
