i
THE WEATHER
V
i
1
1
s
J
t
i
9
;
r
;
i
rrvENiNG
Ej edition
VOL. XXXIII., NO. 172,
STRENGTHENING
Feeble Efforts to Withstand
Assaults of Czar's Troops
Are Proving
Futile.
LECHNITSKY 10 MILES
WEST OF CZNEROWITZ
Powerful Gas Responsible For
Great Victory Trou
v ble in British
' Cabinet.
International Newa S-uvj.e:
IliIULIX, .Juno 20. Kiissian at
tacks against the (icnnaii uraiy of
Cn. von Unsinnen in Volhjida liawr
leen broken am! the fJeriiians are
advancing along tin Kovel-I.usk
toad, the war oflicv announced to
War.
Intcrnntional News Service:
PFTKOaP.AD, June Dlb Russian
attacks against the (ierman and
Austro-IIunguriaii forces in Yol
hynia and Oalicia are growing in
vigor ami the r-vlilo efforts of the
'1 'Iltens to .st the llussian advance
with cuunttr assaults are tuieki.v
overwhelmed.
The Kus.-ian army of lien. I,eeh
mtsky w Iii 1 c:tpfurel Czernowitz.
l.y Kturm. has already advanced 1
mibs west of the city tt)v;i!(l the
Sen-th river. The Austro-Hungar-iain
who evacuated the Uukowinian
capital ;rt preparing to make a
: -land on the SVreth.
Another Kussktn forc. which ad
vanced in a northwesterly direction
along tlio Pruth, is already within
striking distance of Kolomea, an
important A list ro-l I uugai i.m posi
lion OU miles northwest of ('zcino
witz. It is believed that the Ausiro
huiuarian works at Koloinea are
.1 1 ready under artillery lire.
l ore Austrian-.
In Volhynia where fresh nattier
have developed, tlw Austro-1 lun
garians were forced from their posi
tion at Lokatx hi. south of the Luga
i.er and only IS miles east of tn
important railway last- of Vladimir
Volyris-ki.
Artillery duels of gteat intensity
are reported from th northern t nt
ol the line where the Russians are
fating the (Ierman armies of 1'ield
Marshal ton HindenbuiK-
Much of the recent sue, ess t the
I Russians is attributed to the use of
poisonous as which is the most
(...werful known to w.irf.nt. The
masks of the tlermans and Austio
llungarians weie totally unalde to
ward off its effects.
lir.M AV Asl lls.
T ut t i::t ior. a I .News .Vrv!' ?:
I'AIII. June -0. (Jernian troops
ler.ewfd their isatilts against 1 1 1 1 1
No. ".-1. on the e.l;:: front last
i.ilii, hut all the attacks were re
im Ned. the I'rench war otti e an
nounced tod.ty-
1 IUI No. --1 lies to the east of 5 In
Meuse liver and so ilh of the Hau
dromont quarries.
n: i i: diimonstkatiov.
hucm ni'Mial .Nn Service:
;i;m:A. June :o. News wa
;cciveil here of fresh peace demonstration-
in Vienna. The steady ad
vance of the liuv-ians In (lalicia has
, aiuod a deep depression in the Aus
ir .111 lapital. The theaters are
. mp'v at night and anxious crowd
: "1; the streets. A Mr ng guard is
.unstained everywhere to prevent
i. n uprising.
Titorm.i: in cwiiimti.
lr- rn'iti.Ttjl N Servi.-e:
LONDON'. .June Theie were
; rfis:nt reports of an acute di
vision in the cabinet over the Irih
.uestien when parliament recen--en,d
tod.i. That hi;:h feelins; still
t :sts in Ireland, especially over tL
execution of tin rovcdlitionarv lc.oi-
Ik, i 5hown by the Sinn IVln dem
onstrations tn luMin.
David Uoyd-tieore. who was
(ho-: M the r ibir.et to p.i.ify Ite
'ctud. has :i:.oU- progress, but it is
'.wtr.vc-id th.it th- plan he has
. ol .j to n!.l,i;n ,ii . c!i! in t.ti!l t he
'.'la.nl ion.il :. .,: t!e l'ls'e
"- ! , i -1 i i i ; 1 1 - i o r c
' 1 )"!' ! : o 1 1 . . , -1 t t , o " o ; -' o v -
trnracnl.
rr rr rro n rr n cr-zs n x n n w nza nr n n n n nr n n n n
RUSSIAN DRIVE
UPON AUSTRIA
SOUTI
a newb pa rrn Fun the notr.
WITH ALL. THK LOCAL NEWS.
AS EftffHTI MTE BS
Europeans to
Support U. S.
m
In New Policy
International News srri?:
PA IMS, June l'. Trance and
Llnslaml can follow only one poliey
in Mexico and that is to svippoit
loyally any action taken i,y the Uni
ted States, hoping in the meantime,
that it will ohtain support from one
of the Mexican factions which would
facilitate greatly the pacification of
the country."
The foret;oin paragraph n con
tained in an article In the Ki ho de
i'aris today commenting upon American-Mexican
relations. Most of the
Paris newspapers had something to
say on the matter. The Journal's
editorial said in pait:
"Pres't Wilson's first mistake was
to expect gratitude from (,'arranza.
"But a bigger mistake was to over
look .Mexican hostility to the United
States ami the impossibility of u
weak policy crushing euch feeling.
Mexican arrogance has increased
with every step of hesitation by the
American government. In ordinary
times the affair might be settled by
compromise, which would be pre
ferable to a difficult war, but the
party platforms call for vigorous
action In Älexioo.
'Pres't Wilson cannot accept a
blow iu the face from Carranza after
humiliating the kaiser."
The balance of the editorial in the
Echo de Paris says:
"The .Mexican embroulio. however
unfortunate for us from a commer
cial standpoint, won't be disquieting
to the United States military view
point so long rts CJen. Pershing does.
nothing1 imprudently."
SHIHG SENDS
Ü0PERS SOUTH
U. S. General Defies Carran
za and Men Start on An
other Chase.
iDternatiotud News Service:
KL I'ASO. Texas. June I'd. t'.iiir.
fJen. .ltdin J. Tershin. commander
d tlie I'nited Stales troops in Mex
ico, has d lied Venustiano Carnuiza
in deeds as well as words.
Despite Carranza's warniiV.,' thaf
the American Commander must not
move any of his troops in any direc
tion except toward the I'nited States
horder. den. Pershing has detailed
s-everal detachments to strike out
Iiom Nami'iU'Pa in pursuit of han
dits who are operating in that lis
trict. Receipt of the n ws of Men.
Pershing's action wa folioweu Tier"
today by a wave of intense interest
at to what action would he taken
now lt r.en. Jacinto Trevino. the
Mexican yeneral through whom
Carranza issued his warning.
N'amiouipa is den. Pershing's l-ae
of operations ami his prompt io:d
vigorous aetion was made imperative
iy the possiiulity that the bandits
were trying- to hreak his line of
onununication.
TrNp do xnith.
The I'nited States troopers which
were sent out in pursuit .f the
Mexican outlaws were said T have
Marted in a westerly and southerly
urection. The territorv toward
which the I'nited states caalry
mu n are riding is l elieved to ontain
from l-.' O to lT.'nni earranzista sol
diers Matio'ied between Namimiipa
;.nd Mader.i.
Itn should the hot-headed Mexi
can creral precipitate hostilities
without orders from Mexico City, it
is regarded a certain that P.ricr.
den. Pershir.g's force could take
care of it-elf. There are enough
supplies at Namiquipa for a month,
and the t'r.ited States fonts could
stand s;ee for that lon even if the
;,icii :m troops -ot between them
end the border.
The Mexicans low
hive .nboiT
i.Ct"! tavalrymeii in Ju.iifz in addi
tion to ip'antrx. They have some
artillery ar..1 a numl r of machine
2 1 j n s .
l Oi cod Into At my.
The Mei, an military authüutits
in the t.orthern states have com
mru.dtrrt d i-ractically all the food.
Thu-j, while the 'irmy is well sup
plied, the i.ivilinn population on
the r-e of stanatioi . one of the
objects of Cen. Alv-.tra Obre con in
taking this action, a v as said, was
to for Mexi' an- into the army.
T'iu- the famine Mt u.t t ion. wf.i.-h
IV V e ! V I . I t ' "!,.) b ( loo, i . -
com '' I ' 'ii "f ibe ;.ie of
either" MxiLO.
WILSON WM
TROPj FRO
Ii
lb WARNE
Ililel li.ltiolial New Service:
WASHINGTON, June 20. Squarely placing resHnibility tor continuation of the American
troops in Mexico on the shoulders f the Carranza government aiul accepting the threat that it
they are not withJrawn the Mexican government will defend its territory by "an appeal to arms,"
the" United Slates today flatly refused to withdraw its troops from Mexican territory. In a lengthy
reply to the Cirranza note of May 2 2, the United States, through Sec'y Lansing warns the de
facto government that it has adopted a policy that will not be changed under any circumstances.
It rebukes the insinuation that there is any desire of territorial aggrandizement behind the pres
ent Mexican policy and in conclusion declares:
"The United States has not sought the duty which has been forced upon it of pursuing bandits
who under fundamental principles of municipal and international law ought to be pursued and ar
rested and punished by Mexican authorities. Whenever Mexico will assume and effectively exer
cise that responsibility the United States, as it has many times before publicly declared, will be
glad to have this obligation fulfilled by the de facto government of Mexico. If, on the contrary,
the de facto government is pleased to ignore this obligation and t believe that 'in case of a re
fusal to retire these troops there is no further recourse than to defend its territory by an appeal
to arms,' the government of the United States would surely be lacking in sincerity and friendship
if it did not frankly impress upon the d; l"acto government "that the execution of this threat will
lead to the gravest consequences. While this government would deeply regret such a result it
cannot recede from its settled determination to maintain it national rights and to perform its full
duty in preventing further invasions of the territory of the United States and in removing the
peril which Americans along the international border have borne so long with patience and forbearance'
Tvxl of Nolo.
The text of the note is as follows:
"Department of State. Washington.
June -JO.
"Sir: I have read our communi
cation, which was delivered to me on
May 11, 19 DJ, under instructions of
the chief executive of the de facto
government of Mexico on the sub
ject of the presence of American
troops in Mexico territory, and I
would he wanting in candor If I did
not, liefere making answer to the
allegations of fact and the conclu
sions reached by your government,
express the surprise and regret
which have been caused this govern
ment by the discourteous tone and
temper of this last communication
of the de facto government of Mex
ico. "The government of the United
.states has viewed with deep con
cern and Increasing disappointment
the progress of the revolution in
Mexico. Continuous bloodshed and
disorders have marked its progress.
For three years the Mexican republic
lias been torn with civil strife; the
lives of Americans and other aliens
have been sacrificed; vast properties
developed by American capital and
enterprise have been destroyed or
rendered nonproductive; bandits
have been permitted to roam at will
through the territory contiguous to
the I'nited States and to seize. rith
out punishment or withou' tfiective
attempt at punishment, the property
of Americans, while the lives of cit
izens of the I'nited States who have
ventured to remain in Mexican tef-
! ritory or to return there to protect
their interests have been taken, and
BE SLAUGHTERED
Reported That Men at Mine
Have Been Slain by
Mexicans.
Ir.t.-i n.i t 1 New Servi.e:
P.LoWNSVILL!:. Texas. June JO.
Passengers arriving at Matamoras
today reported that all Americans at
derrallvo mine m Neuv. Ix-on. have
been murdeied by Mexicans. The
i eport is unconfirmed.
WASHINGTON, June 2m. The
Americans remaining in Mexico City
will be in grave danger should a
i itak take place between the de facto
government unl the I'nited States.
Vnsul den. Ilodgtrs today tele
graphed the siat' department that
he could not set them through to
Vera Cruz on a special train as
plannel. The Zapatista bandits are
in strong force along the railroad at
th present time. Kodgers said, and
it would be extremely dangerous to
t)v to get through their lines.
dAVIKA i ai.ivi:.
LL PASO. Texas. June L'o. "Tell
the newspapers that 1 am not dead."
This nies-sage. received :it Juarez
today from den. dabriel davira. at
Mexico City, definitely disj.o-es of
rumors widely circulated in Mexico
and abmg the border that he had
been court miutialed and executed.
It was reported that davira. until
recently commander at Juarez, was
..rderd shot bv Mir.iMor of War -i
gou for his action in mft rrit-g
v th den. Ptf-hing without firs
having 'a-;od piüi!"i'in finn
Mexico 'il.
iWHUIY
a BEND
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA,
ELK REFUSES TR
MEXICO ANÜ CHIEF GARRATJ
C NT
GARRY T T
in some cases barbarously taken,
and the murderers have neitb'; cen
apprehended nor brought to stice.
It would be difficult to find in the an
nals of the history of Mexico con
ditions more deplorable that those
which have existed there during
these recent years of civil war.
"It would be tedious to recount
instance after instance, outrage
after outrage, atrocity ftfr Htroclty,
to illustrate the true nature and ex
tent of the widespread conditions of
lawlessness and violence which have
prevailed.
Representations were made to
Gen. Carranza and he was emphat
ically requested to stop these repre
hensible acts in a section which he
has long claimed to be under the
complete domination of his author
ity. Notwithstanding these repre
sentations and the promise of den.
N'afarrett to prevent attacks along
the international boundary, in the
following month f October a pas
senger train was wrecked by bandits
and several persons killed, seven
miles north of ! ..nsville. and an
attack was mad. ajoti I'nited States
troops at the same place several
days later. Since these attacks
leaders of the bandits well known
to both Mexican civil and military
authorities as well as to American
odicers. have been enjoying with im
punity the liberty of the towns
of northern Mexico. So far has
the indifference of the de facto
government to these atrocities
tone that some of these leaders, as
I am advised, have received not only
' protection of that government, but
Battalion is
Sent to Stop
Mexican Band
Intern iti uui! News Ser :
SAN ANTONIO. Tex.. June jo.
A battalion of the third Cnio d
States cavalry reached Del Kio to-
day from Lagle Pass t protect the
town from 1..-.0U Carranzista sol
diers and a few Vajui Indians that
are reported to I- . mar hing in that
direct ion.
According to information reach
ing Maj. den. Funston the Mexicans
are only JO miles from Del llio.
The Il Kio situation is regaril
as ver grave. Th citizens are
clamoring for more irotei'tion.
den. Henry dit r.e. eonimandii g
that set tion of the border patrol
lying at Del Kio. has asked Maj.
den. Kunston for instructions as to
what action lie shall take relative
to tie .rd-r of the military gover
nor f 'oahuila that all the Anx r-i-an
owned cattle in the stat be
eiLed. It is estimated that theto
are uor l"0.on head of American
owned horses, cattle and sheep in
Coahuili and the ranch owners arc
making strong complaints to dvii.
drecne.
WINM.OW SAILS.
Ilil 1 L;f iul'al N'- St l I, c :
SAN DIKdO. Calif.. June
The arrioted cruiser San Diego, j
t'agship of the Pa i i tic coast, sailed
Irora lure today with Admiral "Wins
low . t.mmander of the Pacific tUt.
aboati. Tlu- .Jevti.i a t ion of th' v --s !
w.iv vithhb!. but jt w, adniiti'-d
I tl .a it vvo'iid Co tlo-t to Jaavaai.ts
' . ( M.i.atl.i u
NEW
TUESDAY, JUNE 20, 1916.
crza n n
ITH
encouragement and aid as well.
Numerous MisdtH'ds.
"Depredations upon American per
sons and property within Mexican
jurisdiction have been still more nu
merous. This government has repeat
edly requested in the strongest terms
that the de facto government safe
guard the lives and homes of Amer
ican citizens and furnish the protec
tion, which international obligation
imposes, to American interests in the
northern states of Ta ma ulipas, Xeuvo
Jvcon. Coahuila, Chihuahua and So
nora, and also in the states to the
south. '-'or example, on Jan. :;.
troops were requested to punish the
bands f outlaws which raided the
Cusi mining property, SO miles west
of Chihuahua, but no effective re
sults came from this request. During
the following week the bamlit Villa,
with his bands of about -00 men,
was waiting without opposition be
tween Kubic and Santa Ysabel, a fact
well known to Carranzista authori
ties. Meanwhile a party of unfor-J
tunate Americans started by train
from Chihuahua tu visit the Cusi
mines, after having' received assur
ances from the Carranzista authori
ties in t lie stat of Chihuahua that
the country was safe and that a
guard on the train was not neces
sary. The Americans held passports
or safe conducts issued, by authori
ties of the de facto government.
"On Jan. 10 the train was stop
ped by Villa bandits and IS of the
American party were stripped of
(CONTI NT P.D ON PAdi: xini:.)
CAGQ
TROOPS LE
"Be Aboard and Enroute by
Midnight" is Terse Or
der to Men.
SPKINC.FILLD, 111.. June 20. At
::::.; a. m. today Adj. den. Frank S.
Dickson sent telegraphic orders to
Chicago which will start 10.000 na
tional guardsmen on their way to
Springfield before midnight.
The order, lirected to the com
mander of every regiment of infan
try, cavalry, engineer corps and sig
nal corps iu Fhicago. was impera
tive. "He aboard train and en route by
midnight. was the terse telegram.
A later messasje is to be sent in
structing each regiment the road on
which it must travel and the exact
time to report.
"There will bo 3'.eri soldiers in
camp by .. o'clock tomorrow morn
ing." declared den. Oickson. "On
tlu-ir arrival in Springfield, they will
proceed to the camps and begin thir
actual training for the front."
INcruil Plentiliil.
INDIANAPOLIS. June '0. Indi-nh-i
guard o.iuials declan-d today
that the i ecru it In r ot the first dav
after the is-..aii.e of the otder of
mobilization to th national guard
Lrnpaiiies had been highly satis
t'aitory. S'etal handied men have
''n added to the aieus guard
companies wl.nh later v. ill he con
centrated at I'nit Kenjaniin Hartison
!!. Mai: Indianapolis finis hae
not ;;ed -:t p!v albd with the
tat.-t.il g-iatd tliat ttoi! o.,- ill
. awaiting them uii tiicir i'.'ljin.
n L
u u u u u i I lj va u vx
DELIVERED
DRAW
S-TIMES
PAT AND NIGHT FULL LI-lANtfu
WIHE TLLEUKATHle SEIIVlu
GO. F IS
R
y
s
South Bend Men Expect to be
On Way to Indianapolis
Camp by Next
Friday.
MILITIAMEN ARE PUT
THROUGH LONG DRILL
Troopers Arc Becoming Im
patient to Start Toward
Scene of Trouble
in Mexico.
(Jen. Funston's urgent call for "a
considerable forte of the national
guard probably will send Co. F. In
diana National guard, on its way
to Indianapolis about Friday, there
to go through the routine of getting i
ready tor a ca mpaign on the Mexican
border. With three olticcrs and '.7
men on the company roll, live of
whom have not been located, the
local militiamen are practically
ready to go. Nine men were re
cruited this morning.
Munitions are packed. Fxtra guns
are in their cases. overcoats are
stowed in boxes. F very thing is
ready for the order from Adjutant
deneral Fran'i L. bridges to move
to Fort Itenja nin Harrison, the con
centration point of the Indiana Na
tional guard.
The men are becoming impatient
to be on the move. Every man in
the company is doing his daily rout
ine work in the best of spirit, but
is anxiously waiting for th notice
that will send the troops to Indian
apolis. This morning the soldiers were'
taken to Howard park under com
mand of Licet, utto Dietl and put
in nearly three hours in drilling.
Over the green lawns at the park
they went through their routin' for
mations. Kvery foot of ground in
the park, hilly and level, was cov
ered. Another two hours of drilling
beginning at - o'clock, was on the
program for this afternoon.
Mm Hocrhe Pay.
Second I.ietit. Charles M. Powers
took a large number of the men to
the Studebaker plant to receive their
wages, this being pay day at the cor
poration. So far no notice has been
given by the Studebaker corpora
tion that the mn would be paid
while they aie under military ser
vice, although the factory paid the
men vv ho went away to right against
Spain in
The Northern Indiana das ami el
ectric Co. ha: notiiitd its employes
that if any of them are members of
the national guard they will be al
lowed to go to the front ami arrange
ments made for paying their wages
to their families. Following is the
notice issued by the gas company:
"Any employe who at present is
a member of the national guard and
is called to service in connection
with the present Mexican trouble
may have th-.-ir positions with the
company held open fjr them and
their salaries will be continued while
in military service. Any employe
who is talleil t service can obtain
from me leae of absence and can
make arrangements for payment of
their salaries to their families or
dependents luring their absence.
C N. CHFP.P. Manager."
Dietl Resign-.
First Iieut. Dietl, who has been
on the detect. e force of the police
department, has resigned his po
sition with the ity to go to war. if
it is. deciared to exist between the
Unitel States and Mexico. Iäut.
Dietl was ass ired that he would be
given the first position op-n after
his return.
Ten carload of waier wagons
were shipped o the Me.vi an-Amer-ican
lxtrder by the Studebaker cor
poration last week, but no new nr.
dt-rs have bren placed with the
company sine the present possible
hostilities. A numb.-r of dump
wagons were included in this con
signment to the government. Uids
for ambulances f.,r the government
a ere opened by the corporation Fri
day, but a contract has Uu betl jet.
The Studebaker plant could p't out
a rush rder for th- gov ern;ner.t r.i
cas- of necessity.
Lieut. Col. derge Fi evei -math
of the third regirmni. Imhai .t
Nat ioi.ri 1 guard. Tu-dav ti"r.t ; '.!
Ad; den. Fr.nk L. T:i i lg.- t !i.j
tO'NTI.M'LD UN 1'AdU l'-Uh.
1
II II Ukm :M
GEM. FBI
ii
Considerable Force"
Volunteers For
Be Called
I i.ier ii.-i i ioiia ; evv Serriff
MORE TROOP
H
SAN ANTONIO, Texas, June 20. Gen. Funston today asked
the war department for 'a considerable force' of the national
guard with which to patrol the border from Nogales, Ariz., to
the gulf of Mexico.
This explains why urgent orders have been sent to all militia
heads in the various states to complete the moblization andf
equipment of their troops with all possible speed.
Gen. Funston declined to state just how many troops he had
asked for.
WASHINGTON, June 20. A call for volunteers in the navy
and the fitting out of more vessels for blockading the coast of
Mexico if that action becomes necessary was decided upon today
at a conference between Pres't Wilson, Sec'y of the Navy Daniels
Sen. Tillman and Sen. Swanson, both the latter members of the
senate naval affairs committee.
"We are going to begin recruiting immediately, and expect to
fit out a number of additional vessels because of the Mexican sit
uation," said Sec'y Daniels as he left the white house.
IllflTli ltiOllill .'e S SM k-v:
WAMir.VdTON. Juiu jo. fei.
tain militia units will !o on their
u;iy to the .Mexican border within to -mimetic woik b-,- s-. .. tb
IS hours. Tlie vtar department this J Xa v Daniels.
afternoon admitted the n-cvipt of
a requisition for ct'itain of tin na
tional guard forevs" now Ixdng- n
bilicd. from den. I lan-jon. s-'v
of War I laker doclin"I to s;iy how
many inen have Ixmi a.sUeI for. huf
it is understood that ths selected
will be rushed to the front jn-t as i I j on the respon-e .f t;m c.uioi al
soon a the formality of mu-tci ing ! g 1.1 id to the call of th" pi-il-tt
them into the national er he lias; will ."ojiep.d wlotlui the al ni in i-t i a -been
aeeomplislied. tion late r will a'-k agr-ss tor aw-
, thorite to rail tor an a ! dit ioi.. I fori
Iutet -national N s Ses vi. e
WASHINGTON. Jun' -c (on.
Carranza must make the next move, has rinally let-rmin-! that an "ad
Th Fnited States, under no .iiciini-pju.it-" fore shall b- a--r-inbi d to
stances, will -hang1 its pr-s ni atti-j prot-ft the boi'.--r and do an thing
tude toward Mexico. If t'arran.a is : . -e that m..v b- r i ;j 1 1 1 'J'!o
willing t accept the position as- j army general st. it is kia.w n. I..-.
sumed by the administration anli-es that in addition to tin- ;..iioi:
( uri) his w ar-anxious forces, all mayjal guar d a volant -r a i -my of t ot 1 -n
be well. Hut any attempt to eject j t ha i 1 r.o.ooo no n will r'Jir,j
the American troops now in Me.icijif c .impb t' it:t r r.t m .. n
trom their j-o.-itious. or to interfere ! :;,riH is decided upon. For !!
with their efforts to capture and kill ? pr-.--ut, ho .f. tin- n,it:"i: ii g i.iid
liandit railers. will be -terrdy un- u -ganizat ions will b- h-p. nd u :i
ished. i as the t.rst iii: aft.-r t!,.- r'g .i.,!--.
That Was the position d tbej May d to "iMit.
Fnited States today. Mobilization of j Pr.n t icallv vry h.gh t a 'ik.ng f
the irganiz militia was 'tin-,, b -i of th." artnv !m ask'l th- war
hurried in every way. den. Funston ; h par t no-nt to t d'.:l!-d for a-tiv
has dispos-l of his forces along t h- ' - rv p at the front. It is oM-ihi-border
so that pints against which el rtain t hat v. ntuall;. ail -a ill j .
any general atta k might be piann-d ; .s- m to the borl r. i for t !. pr s
are protected. The Atlantic and'rjt at bast 1 1 ! J-'a- -tei . to bie
I r.titi'- tleets are prejar'd fr im-I a fir ,- J.and.
mediate call at tlo-ir g-ri-ia .-'a- The fat d-partn rt ti; js uitl
tions. "n signal they can mov at out any ij.-t ail .r o-n.M-'e ,t,.-ir
once to blockade (-very M. xican p--.rr. mation of th i . j.oj that th- M -
Th' Vessels of th- tt-et are coaled nan states of Via lfan ar.d Sinad.i
and have steam up anI rews have .-. .,!., w a r ; g . i i t -1 th
aboard are waiting orb rs to assist Fnit' d States, w-,, , u o-.ld
in the blockade and act as ireneral j in n-e.juettti-tT. it is -n'.rnit t d w r
assistants to the fleet. jit ?ioT kr.own that ft. re r-e An. en-
Nat ion I'reparing. ,' ..i:s within '!..-- -tits .f. nr t .
There is no di.-gui.-ing t!.e fac t ) in langer,
that the nation is preparing for war. i In all eases v. , Aa ;.. m or -Hardly
a single official ntertains the's-;iar .f!i laN !.a - !.-ft M i , , they
slightest liope tint 'arranza a ml his ' hu '. - t uruel th;r affairs ...:- ?, th
fjlloers will accept the viewpoint Prifi-h or.s-ila r r-pr - - r T 1 1 1 v .-. it
of the Fnited States. Arid the tn-st was siij at the state department to
shot that now is fired bv a r ra nzi--j da - . No .ct.rl :ig';-- of i h- nua
ta soldiers at an American soldier . r of A in'-i ia n.- still in .J.o. ax
or the t'rst organized raid across the .haina ? hr-. b ;t rv ff ort i
bor1er iierinitted by the Carra r.zist;; b ing o.a-l- ;, t?e . it v.i it - ?,,
will be th signal for immediate !.-,: ., th--e .-:r wi'l . ; f r h. r .p..
reprisals by this government. o"i-Jl.."
cials say. !
It is made -.cry plait; !.-! that if! TWO ;V
the band of Cnit-.l States f-.r-d; WAS 1 1 .Vi'l T ' N . far. j. '
by an attack from Carranzi-ta- sol- j oreain.iught v. d add d ;
di--rs those responsible will i ' pm - j t he fv- -..it'if 'rn.-r- aut !. ...-!
sne.j no matter where th-y may i--ii The n i v a 1 appi-pri r . ,
treat. 'he ilO.se U h n the rueasu.'e J - J,.
Atlmin.-tr.itioo :fb"i. 1- n.ah- i j . nimer.de J to the sej: ,t- by ta .......
plain today that t will diff re-.-1 til- naval .,ff tirs .-,:. :v-Th.
lowers and the MXean peoj.j.
should mtf C cntior. be lorcd. It o
urid -r.-tood to be ih; i'lin Ij -trik
sharj lv ar.d de i-r,-iy if It shad :,e
.leiio.n.-.tiat--!. a gei'iaii.- fear -
..!. tiiat for.e n.a-t 1-e -d a g .i i ; i -1
the ("arrariZa troops a'.d th-;i
Clt.Iol St.iTe- will -1 :t bb-b .t . o . -
e-rr:ru-:.t under ;t- o.v n ;u --; fi'.n
A h i h . ! ' l ' Jepeiled on o re
,- . st it ; ' ;o ; a : r ' ! i : e i v. .1 .
llip- lt-.il.
-o-. .-I ; v I:. t h..'f.
. I" l - -oi-- g ; . . ! d . : I 'o,.. bat
Trrlf,,m rr''bl''iy ho v-r- ..n 1
thunder-tor. n. P :-.o h: . d v.
1 a v .
I . ' r Mi ! . : c . n I 1 1 ' ; . . . i - t
tonight and Wrdr,v-1 .t ?
PRICE TWO CENTS
REQUESTS
S 10 GUARD
of Militia is Urged
the Navy Will
by Wil son.
all of th"1 I'fo inen and vc-s.Js
under his ominand are r ady for
blockading- duty as :oon as o:did
we need is a t-b idhon i -sage
outlining o-'r station." -aid
ipr. F.ertholf today.
The cutters have !.iig- . - t v h
supplies of munitions ai;! g;os
Morel at the gulf statioi.s re.el.v tor
Use.
.f j .".f aifoi dliinlo rs. A d no ni-t i a -lion
b-ad'is say thai tin- r i i . t
Iter ( 'h-ar ma:. T.i:
m t: i
j s v ansoi: ha i r o'iferre w . h I i
j 'ilsor. and .vc'y ot '.). N .- v
Ii;.:-N a- , ad !.';,.. . i:. ? ,
jl: t ..e '.-::!d.r,- ;. ram p v - Lj.
J . r si . . . d tbaT th p r - . i . :. ;....i . -v -
j j r --ed i:i- W ill.r.vr. s :.- .-.., r ,v
j :. !.) ,t . .r , ' .;u u-;K .;. . ;
j t a- u".iare
' ' ' . I ' ; . . i : ', T". 1 I M , ri . r . , -
j . i ( -. ; ;
. : v.
j -i. ' i , o
t . j.-. g- .
.'. a - s o : i -
I
'e
