lODAY'S PRICES
- v'it rotra (state bills) 121,0
5 M Mfin peso 4 M xi-an go.d
n.l-a bills 17-5 C-arranr-i
' t i i, nrin 6 Bar ailier Kan-
a Harmuii quotations) 4H Copper
.- .r.m- 5tei Livestock steady
i - higher
HOME EDITION
WEATHER FORECAST.
13 rso and wet Texaf. fair: New Mex
leo, fair; Arizona, fair.
LATEST NEWS BY ASSOCIATED PRESS.
single copy five cEXTs EL PASO. TEXAS. TUESDAY EVENING. JUNE 20. 191 6.
DKLIVERED 4M!ltlll ' BN'TB A MONTH SIXTEEN PAGES TODAY.
WAR OR PEACE; CARRANZA MUST DECIDE
ilitia
Funston
Hurry Call For
MEN RUSH TO
4W ,4a
Will Be Stationed Along the
Border From Brownsville
To Pacific Qcean.
WATCH MEXICAN
TROOP MOVEMENTS
EAGER
Hi BANKER
OF MEXICO HELD
Frederick Griese in Custody
of Federal Secret Serv
ice Agents.
Frederick Griese, a prominent Mexico
City banker, and a German, was arrest
ed Monday night upon his arrival from
Mexico City and is being held pending
investigation by federal authorities.
The investigation is said to connect
Griese with violation of neutrality acts
in behalf of the German empire, the de
tails of which are withheld.
A vigilant watch is being kept over
tho prisoner by two federal secret 'serv-
I toe afficers in the office of the deputy
- - , i it' 1 1 United States marshal Griese was
KarranClStaS L.OnCentTating at i taken to the secret service offices after
If,
DEC T IT TT
SlilPIIG
STATUS
ENLIST
Points Retired From'
The Boundary.
WASHINGTON, D. O. June 26.
Gen. Funston's request lor na
tional guardsmen reached the
war department after noon and result
ed in telegraphic requests for informa
tion as to when the forces of certain
states would be able to move. Orders
for entraining of units ready for ser
vice were expected before night.
s
AX ANTONIO, Texas. June JO. Gen.
Funston today requested the war
department to send to him as soon
as possible a large part or the national
guardsmen to be stationed along the
Mexican border, "from Brownsville to
the Pacific ocean."
While 1 00.000 members of the militia
were being mobilized Gen. Funston
anxiously studied the border for anv
hfi alTMt lAJtt nlfrht txherA nl Hair.
fRe was left. He was then taken to
the county Jail and spent the night
there under guard.
It is said the Mexico City banker was
Ten route to San Antonio, Texas. Local
friends of Griese declare that they be
lieve in his innocence.
"I do not know Frederick Griese, I
have heard nothing of his case and did
not know such a man was in El Paso."
said Max Weber. German consul in
Juarez, b telephone Tuesday afternoon.
"No official report has been made to
me of his case and, as I saj. 1 know
nothing of the man or of the case."
The C S. officials refused to permit
reporters to see the man
Even Alaska Is Taking Steps
To Organize Regiment
For Possible Service.
WEE GEH
ATTACKS FAIL
Paris, France, June 20. Three Ger
SUE BIGS
If MINE
Few Americans Remain in
Hermosillo; Nogales Mer
chants to Move.
Nogales, Ariz.. June 28. Louis Hos
tetter. United States consul at Hermo
sillo, and many other Americans from
that district, arrived here today, re
porting that not more than half a doz
en of their compatriots remained be
hind them. They said these probably
would come out In a few days.'
Among those arriving with consul
Hostetter were: Dr. J. C. Burton and
family. F. Pelller and wife, family of
Mark Wandless. Mrs. Rose Sweeney,
John Luy. S. Hestlet, Carbo; Fred E.
Carothers, Hermosillo; W. B. David
son. La Paz; J. R. K. Higginbothara,
Carbo; J. Coffer. Hermosillo; Adolph
Sehnuer, C P. Hollcrart. La Colorado;
P Brady. Hermosillo, and C W. Forbes,
manager Hermosillo Telephone com
pany. Nogales Bring: Evacuated.
The emptying of the civilian popula
tion irum tugaties, .aicjmcu, continues, j n .... . ... , .. ,...,
Today the merchants of the Mexican i ""' t aL " Bu" """-
town were oraered to pacK ail tnetr w ksjps in response to president
Wilson's call for men for service on
the Mexican border. Between 9000 and
10,000 militiamen in California. Oregon,
Washington. Montana and Idaho will
be mobilized within three or four days.
3 I ready and eager to entrain for the
Washington. D. C June 2. After a "th according to the state adjutants
cabinet meeting today, secretary of , general.
state Lansing said no new steps in Applications for enlistment crowd
Mexico had been decided upon and that ! -, -,..i. T- t..i ..,-
the situation was unchanged. ! rec"S stations. In Portland they
I came so fast the surgeons did not Have
FIELD PHONE TO FABENS IS CUT; !!"?. "..S, i"0"
Mnrnorvrir rnnnc crirr ' I saw the war strength could be reached
MOTORCYCLE CORPS SENT OUT . within ten days.
When the field telephone line be- From Alaska came reports today that
WAR STRENGTH
IN TEN DAYS
Western Firms Prove Patriot'
ism By Holding Positions
And Offering Pay.
.AX FRANICISCO. June 20. Na-
tional guardsmen up and down
the Pacific coast began assemb-
goods for immediate shipment south
ward.
No New Steps In Mexico
Decided On, Says Lansing
Sf CHICOT
Consular Report Says Car-
ranza Troops at Matamoras
Fired on Americans.
Ad admission that the Mexicans who
fired upon the American expedition re
tiring from Mexico, near Matamoros,
last Saturday were Carrancistas and
not bandits, was contanled in a mes
sage received Tuesday at the Mexican
consulate here from H. Perez Abreu,
director of tho de facto consular serv
ice. The message states:
"On last Saturday there crossed upon
Mexican territory, near Matamoros. an
American force on the pretext of pur
suing bandits. After an exchange of
fire with us. which resulted in one dead
and one wounded on our part, the
Americans withdrew to their own side."
The message also tells of the naval
Incident at Mazatlan. in which Amer
ican bluejackets and Carrauza soldiers
came to blows, with the comment that
"the incident ended satisfactorily, afer
MOVE DE II S. IS IDE
REAR
VI IT Tl I
indication of hostility on the part of j man attacks made Monday night on tween Fort Bliss and Fabens was cut j a regiment of Infantry- will be orsan
CaTara's troops. J French positions northwest of Hill "shortly before midnight Monday night, after the army reorganization bill
Inny officers along the Rio Grande jfa. Ill were reunited br the fire nf i Gn- BeH ordered the newly organised
from Brownsville to EI Paso obtained 1 f " ere rDul!ea T the fjre of ' torcycje Koot company to Fabens
what information they could concern- tne French machine guns, according to
ng the movements on the Mexican side I an official statement issued today by
both of bandits and government troops, i .. . - m. mi r- .
t ,. rr;.iol ., .v,.i .. . "" " ww.vc auc ciu"io -
v U..I10I ULV,. , OdUd OllUJ I .. . ... ..
.j uuiuuiuuiiig uie r rem:u positions
in the neighborhood of Vaux, Chapitre
and Chattan court.
hut
headquarters here, of any incident that
appeared likely to disturb the dellcate-
1- 3iar"-ed relations between the two
-" r es.
TreTlno Hasn't Moved Troops.
Gev Pershing's reports indicated
that Gen Jacinto Trevino's troops had
not yet made any advance move and
army officers believed it improbable
that they would, unless Trevino re
ceived special orders from Mexico City.
Such information as reached Gen.
Funston concerning the movements of
Mexican troops indicated the adoption
or a ptan not to maintain neavy gar
risons at border points, but to hold the
ouifc or the border army some miles
south of the Rio Grande.
Lampazos Garrison Strong.
The ga-rison at Nuevo Laredo, Mex..
was strengthened bjr a mere handful
(f men, but at Lampazos, between
La-edo and Monterey, there were held
5008 or 6000 troops. The garrison at
Laredo was less than 100. At Piedras
Negras. the Mexican town opposite
Eagle Pass, the Mexican garrison was
busy leaving Monday. The larger part
of the force has moved to points south,
where they were incorporated with
other bodies of troops.
DlKmantle I. 31. Shops.
mm mi,
GRIP OE RUSSIA
Berlin, Germany, June 20. German
troops have broken the resistance of
the Russians at various points north-
TVASf of. T.4itlf nrtft art fichtlnir thft
way forward, the war office announced J
today.
to ascertain the reason for the line
oeing cut.
The company, in command of Lieut.
Eastman, made a quick run to Fabens,
watching for raiders or snipers en
route But nothing was seen of any
Mexicans from the other side in the
Fabens district.
ROAD MAKING MACHINERY
SHIPPED MEXICO FROM CHICAGO
Four tractors, four graders, IS dump
wagon scrapers and other road mak
ing implements have been shipped
from quartermaster depot of the cen
tral department at Chicago for use on
the new railroad between Columbus
and Namlqulpa.
The road makincr machlner-v mi
shipped by Mai. K. J Hampton, acting
explanations."
Mexican Rioters Make
Target Of U. S. Flag
But Cannot Strife It
Douglas,' Ariz.. June 20. The Ameri
can flag flying over the hotel in which
was located the office of American
consul W. A. Julian at Cananea was
rcade the target of hundreds of Mexi
can bullets during the anti-American
demonstration last Saturday night, ac
cording to American refugees arriving
here today. After daybreak, when the
di monstration ended, the emblem still
flaunted in the breeze.
SINCE CARRANZA RECOGNIZED
There Is an embargo on the ship
ment of arms through the Juarez port
l Aivs ri. h-nt o -Icit . I which prevents any shipments of arms
in Alaska now but a regiment is au- I n, ,i;i,ln h.m Ut tr. m.tco
thorized la the bllL Movements to- j through this port.
ward the formation of companies have ! The embargo has been In effect since
alrosHv tnrtA in -n--.ien.nv. ,n I Csrranza was recognized and is a lo
already started In Fairbanks and cal order fronj the cvatom nonse Dro
Juneau. I halting the shipment of arms, ammu-
Many western firms have announced ! nltion or other munitions of war.
that all their employes who go with I a i'fci"?- toVe
the militia will have their positions sent across the river at various times.
open to them on their return. Several 1 much of it being smuggled over up and
Portland employers declared they would jtv"
""fiu me sumiers iamiiies. n neces-: fortunes durlner the r adero and villa
TMrolnilrtn smiie-clinc nTnrntinltlOlL.
Single Hope of United States Is That Military Prepara
tions of TJ. S. "Will Induce Him to Cease Demanding .
Withdrawal of American Troops; Note Censures
Mexican Attitude; Army Withdrawal Refused. ,
takes effect July 1. There Is no militia
sary. A few said they would pay their '
assent men nair tneir salaries during
their military service.
WASHINGTON, D. C. June 20. With president Wilson's firm re- '
fusal to withdraw American troops from 'Mexico on its way to the de
facto government, embodied in a note sternly arraigning the whole
course of Gen. Carranza in the situation which has brought the two countries to
the verge of war, the administration today continued to make its preparations I
to meet any emergency that may arise.
War or peace rests with Gen. Carranza. The position of the United
States is pointedly set forth in its review of the apparent inability of Carranza
to prevent border raids and to keep the obligation he owes the world by the
preservation of order in his dominions. The note was handed to ambassador-
designate Eliseo Arredondo today.
Secretary Lansing had a private conference with president Wilson before
today's cabinet meeting. At the cabinet meeting the opinion prevailed that the:
chances were overwhelmingly in the direction of war. The one hope was that
Gen. Carranza would be impressed by the military preparations of the United
States and make no further effort to have American troops withdrawn. There
has been no indication, however, that Carranza's intentions are peaceful and
every move now is being planned m the belief that hostilities may begin at any
moment. t
NOTE REVIEWS MANY OUTRAGES.
Long continued outrages against Americans and their property, both m.
Mexico and on American soil, are reviewed m the note and warning given that
the troops will be kept in Mexico until such a time as the de fado mvernmnr
aBG1,S rE I Pfonns the duty which the Unked States has not sought, of pursuigg; the
LHuiuiu vYiiu-ougm j dc arrEstcci ana punisnea uy tee Mexican government.
It concludes with the statement that if the de facto government continues
to ignore this obligation and carries out its threat to defend its territory by an
appeal to arms against the American troops, the gravest consequences will follow.
AMERICA WILL NOT RECEDE.
"While this government would deeply regret such a result, the note
says, 'it cannot recede from its settled determination to maintain its national
rights and to perform its full duty in preventing further invasions of the terri
tory of the United Staets and in removing the peril which Americans along the
international boundary have borne so long with patience and forebearance."
17. S. la Loalne Patience.
The terms of the American note leave Igslrate' the true nature and extent of
COLORADO GUARDSMEN ARE
MOVING TO CONCENTRATION
Denver, Colo., June 20. Mobilization
quartermaster of th Chicago depot to I plans of the Colorado national guard
were well under way today according
Capt U. S. Grant III. who is in charge
01 me roau Duiiaing operations.
GREEK SPY C0ND0YANNIS
SHOT BY A FIRING SQUAD
Paris. France. June 24. The Greek
spy Condoyannis. formerly an actor,
was shot at daybreak in front of the
artillery targets -at Vlncennes. He war
condemned on March 16 for giving
Krnri. imyinr TiAm v... i, i the Germans information as to num-
Mexlcans dismantled the machine shops. I ber "Hi movements of troops in Frame
moving large quantities of the material ! and baar slnce, I1?1?., evJa.us,e. "
to the interior The concentration f I means of appeal including that of ap
heavV forces to the S l?? plying to the president of the republic
itaHrufmrM Th. onL-JSn? " the morning or his execution Con
wer fnrenratfrm J "k??"" doyannls was wakened inhis cell at
w5 1-n.r 2fSrt22 . "S-townihaif past two and told that his time
TA" teng ef'ected was at QBaga. I had ,,. He dressed slowly, repeat
ing that he wanted to make further
opposite i-resiaio. There, not more
than 500 were stationed, but the
American force at Presidio also is smalL
Quiet ronnd UrotTnsTille.
Gen Parker's reports from Browns-
OTtllA .1..1 hn. ..1, ... .. I-. m-I ,,
. ...,t oi.-. iunt ail nos ifuict in U13 OlS-
ttrlct. Traffic over the international
urwife, inierruptea oy toe Mexicans on
the day Americans crossed the river. In
pursuit of bandits, was not yet re
sumed, but the construction of pontoons
would make communication simple,
should Gen. Parker have occasion to
send another force Into Mexico.
Eastern Mllltla Coming First.
It was believed that Gen. Funston
would ask for the militia of New York.
Illinois, and Pennsylvania, first, and
becau.-e of their superiority in organ
ization and equipment, they would be
placed at border stations without loss
of time
statements, but interrupting himself
every now and then to say to the
guards, "So you Insist that I shall be
shot."
When dressed. Condoyannis was or
dered into a wagon drawn by two
horses and was taken on a Journey
of half an hour's dur ation to th
"butts." Getting out of the wagon he
walked firmly enough, the guards "ay,
MOTOR TRUCK TRAIN TO ARRIVE
WEDNESDAY FOR BORDER USE
.Another motor truck train of 27
truck3 is expected to arrive here from
Chicago Wednesday for use on the
border here to carry supplies for the
border patrol and to move soldiers
rapidly by motor trucks If they are
needed at some outpost.
The trucks are the four wheeled
drive type which have proved so suc
cessful in Mexico and they will be put
into commission at once on the border.
to reports received at the office of
Adj. Gen. H. P. Gamble. Physical ex
amination of the members was being
made. Gen. Gamble stated, nt their
home stations to avoid elimination of
are again reported to be active and
are getting much ammunition across.
CARRANZA TELLS 10,000
IS NOT SEEKING WAR
Mexico City. Mex., June 20. Gen. Car
ranza told a throng of more than 10.000
persons assembled in the Zocalo Mon
day afternoon that Mexico was not
seeking war. but would not avoid it at
the cost of national dignity. The crowd
was made ud of marchers who carried
the national emblemB as evidence of
those not meeting the requirements their willingness to defend the country's
BASE HOSPITAL AT FORT
MAY BE DIVISION HOSPITAL
Four more female nurses have arrived
at the base hospital from Washington,
D. C, and are now on duty at the hos
pital. While no plans have yet been made
for enlarging the base hospital, it is
understood tht the Fort Bliss hospital
will tin madA ngnv timt lt nFMAnf
to the wooden post at which he was Jo j sbte ,n tne event of war and that this
later when the troops are concentrated
at uoiaen.
All the Denver organizations expect
ed to be camped at the rifle range
at Golden tonight One or two com
panies from the western slope expect
ed to entrain. Companies from south
ern Colorado expected to be ready to
move tomorrow. Within 3S hours, the
adjutant general stated, most of the
organizations in the state would be
moving.
TWO TEXAS MILITIA OFFICERS
CONVICTED OF SELLING SUPPLIES
Austin, Tex, June 20. Judge Gordon
Russell, of the federal court, today an-
honor and dignity in case of a foreign
war and who were led by bands of mu-
and
paraders. who filled the streets
public squares of the capital.
The gathering, which filled the zo
calo, bounded by the cathedral and mu
nicipal and national palaces, was ad
dressed by Carranza, Gen. Obregon and
other officers of the government
AMERICANS' LIVESTOCK IN
C0AHU1LA ORDERED SEIZED
San Antonio. Tex, June 20. Seizure
of about 100.000 head of sheep and cat-
, ..w vi.ucu 11 A1UC1 IV1IS I1J LUC BWIV "&
nounced that he had temporarily de- ' cahuila has been ordered by Gustavo
ferred passing sentence upon O. Walker Esplnosa Mlreles. governor of that state,
and Geo. Head, former Texas national i as a military necessity." according to
guard officers. He indicates that sen- i information given to Gen. Greene at
tence would be passed tomorrow. I Eagle Pass by American ranchers.
Walker and Head were fount! guilty I Gov. Bspinosa is said to have ordered
bv a 1nrv in this Miurt lamt ,,!,, er that sheeD be taken first and alreadv
charges of conspiracy to defraud the thousands have been run off from the
sic. The afternoon was given up to theH f'noa- on ,.he ifS!ifoast' " ,s rePTtl
stand to be shot, but kept constantly, m be made the division hospital lor Kverameat in connection with the al I Rose-Meyer ranch near Eagle Pass.
no doubt that the United States trovern-
inenr is approacning tne end or its pa
tience with the Mexican annoyances but
still maintains Its original policy of en
tering war only for defence.
Even while these assurances were be
ing conveyed, came reports that Mexi
cans were enlisting for military service,
under the Impression that the United
States armies are about to attack
Mexico.
Carntnxa Commander Sends Unltlmatam
An ultimatum, said to be virtually a
declaration of war. has been served on
commander Kavanaugh of the United
States gunboat Annapolis by Gen. Flo
rez. Carranza governor of the state of
I the widespread cond'tlonn or Tanr!-
nt ana violence wntcn nave prevailed.
"During the past nine months. In
particular, the frontier of the United
States along the lower Rio Grande has
been thrown into a state of constant
apprehension and turmoil because of
frequent and sudden incursions into
American territory and depredations
and murders on American soil by Mex
ican bandits who have taken the lives
and destroyed the property of Ameri
can citizens, sometimes carrying Amer
ican citizens across the international
boundary with the booty seized.
American Troops Attacked.
American garrisons have been at
tacked at night: American soldiers
killed and their equipment and horses
stolen: American ranches have been
raided, property stolen and destroyed,
and American tra'ns wrecked and
plundered. The attacks at Browns
ville. Bed House Ferry, Progreso. post
office and Las Peladas, all occurring '
during September last, are typical.
Carrancistas Involved in Murder.
"In these attacks on American ter-.
rltory Carrancista adherents and even
Carrancista soldiers took part in the
looting, burning and killing. Net onlv
were these murders characterized by
ruthless brutality, but uncivilized acts
of mutilation were perpetrated.
' Protests' to Carranza Unavailing.
Representations were made to Gen.
carranza and he was empnaticaiiy re-
exclalming. "I protest. I nrotest " While
he was still protesting the guards be
gan to bandage his eyes, but Condoy
annis tore the cloth away saying he
would give the order to fire himself.
At this point he began to make a
speech. "Brave French soldiers " He
got so far but no further at this mo
ment the officer commanding the fir
ing party lowered his sword and Con
doyannis fell pierced by a dozen balls.
CHICAGO HAS FIRST
MtTTinaTC inn nnmr, I
Chicago, m, June StJ-Chicaa-o's first ; ENGLAND PLANS RECIPROCAL
Mexican "war bride" was Miss Anna to htm? sn UTtnwe vurro imrr
all of the troops on this part of the
border and in Mexico.
ARREDONDO CANCELS HIS
ENGAGEMENT: HAS THE NOTE
Washington. D. C, June 20. Eliseo J
Arrcauuuu, uic .ia.ii&u
leged sale of military supplies.
amount invoiveo being about S20.C
the
Knudson. She and Capt- August F. W.
Siebel of companv C. second infantrv.
TNG. were married noon receint nf chamber of commerce has adopted reso
Go. Dunne's order to the state troops Iutlons favoring reciprocal trading rela
to mobilize at once. They were mairied . tions bcyeen the British empire and
in the regimental armory. fConlinoed on Paee H.)
designate, late today canceled an en
gagement he had to call on secretary
Lansing. No explanation was offered
at the embassy.
It had been understood, however,
that Mr. Arredondo made the engasre-
1 ment tn learn vh,n the American nnA
London. Eng, June 26. The London might be expected. Delivery of the
' communication saved him the trouble.
MAItRIED MEX IN MILITIA
si.iy m: excused, is claim
Washington, D. C, June 26. The war
denartment ha tw1vi1 manv in-
ambaseador quiries as to what Immunities would
m granted married men enlisted In the
national guard. Most of the officials
were inclined to believe those will be
excused who can show that their ab
sence from business would be a prlva-
n" iv uepenaent lammes.
They were driven southward toward the
Carranza forces.
In the region where the order Is ef
fective there are a dozen or more big
ranches owned and operated by Americans.
Boys, Learn to Swim;
Let The Herald Help You
TO BE "water wise"' is a most valuable accomplishment and productive
of the greatest returns in fun, recreation and phj sical development, and
invaluable in saving life, his own or another's.
In the Y. M. C A. swimming pool, all the "Y" boys are taught to swub.
The youngest boys learn to swim in about two lessons of 20 minutes each.
The (erald brings this opportunity to the boys of EI Paso the opportu
nity to prepare. This preparation may save your life. Preparedness is the
best and cheapest insurance.
A membership to the Y. M. C. A. will be given to the boys absolutely
free for obtaining only a small number of new subscribers. Call to see H. U.
Fris, circulation manager of the El Paso Herald.
SINALOA GOVERNOR DECLARES
WAR AGAINST UNITED STATES
San Diego, Calif, June 2". The gov
ernor of the state of Sinaloa has de
clared war on the United States, ac
cording to a radiogram today from
commander Arthur
gunboat Annapolis,
No further details
Kavanagh, of the
now at Mazatlan.
of the alleged
declaration of hostilities were given in
. ad-
the message, which was directed to
miral Winslow. of the Pacific fleet
TWO MORE U. S. CRUISERS
ORDERED SOUTH TO MEXICO
it was pointed out that each case must
be presented separately and will ba
decided on its merits.
mmm
SEEK TROUBLE
DE LA HUERTA ORDERS
MEXICANS TO TAKE ARMS
Douglas, Ariz., June 20. Governor
Adolfo de la Huerta, civil governor of
Sonora. has issued nrnflaniation or-
However. I dering the civilians of the state to use
nasie in arming themselves to meet an
American invasion, according to Amer
icans arriving here from Naco who
heard the proclamation read last Sat
urday night in a Cananea theater.
Columbus, N. M, June 20 Ameri
can and Carranza troops are In close
proxmity south of Namlqulpa, with the
Mexicans taking a provocative atti
tude, according to reports reaching
San Diego. Calif, June 2. P,ear ad- tere today from the front Dispatches
miral Fullam, commanding the Pacific , . - . . " ""u"5nea
reserve fleet, received orders this morn- . received here were interpreted as
Ing for the armored cruisers Pittsburg n.eaning that there might "be a clash
and Colorado to proceed south. Fullam ,' in the Immediate future, although Gen
stated the ships would leave this after I , rehw i. JTm i . i ..
noon, nramedinc- tn mri. tn h .1aaI-. j- j- l ersMng Is said to be making
l nated later by admiral Winslow. J ei ery
tery effort to avoid a conflict.
FIND BODY OF BROWNSVILLE
MAYOR'S BROTHER IN RIVER
Brownsville, Texas, June 20. The
body of William Browne, a brother of
mayor Albert Browne, of this city, was
found in the Rio Grande on the Mexi
can side, ten miles south if Matamo
ras today. Browne is said to have been
last seen in Matamoras Saturday aft
ernoon. He is believed to have been
murdered.
BIG BANK ON BORDER
TO SHIP GOLD INLAND
Washington. D. C June 26. Con
troler Williams announced today that
be had authorized one of the largest
national banks on the Mexican border
to remove Its gold reserve to an inland
city for fear of a Mexican attack. He
declined to leu wnere tne bank was
to the naval authorities
The hostile stand grew out of the
clash Sunday at Mazatlan between blue
Jackets from the Annapolis and Mexi
cans, resulting in casualties on both
sides.
Mexican government troops were re
ported last night marching on Del Rio
100 miles up the Rio Grande from La
Starts With Rebuke.
. The. f.81' of no'o transmitted to
day xollows:
"The secretary of state to the secre
tary of foreign relations of the de facto
government of Mexico.
"Department of State. Washington.
June 26. 191.
"Sir: I have read mnr nAn,m.nf Ac
tion which was delivered to me oa I quested to stop these reprehensible acta
May zz. 191 s. nnder instructions of the ! m a section which he has lone claimed
head of the de facto gove-nment of ! to be under the complete domination of
Mexico on the subject of the presence ! nl3 authority. Notwithstanding these
of American trooDs in y,Tinn ,a..i. reDresentations and the promise of Gen.
tory and I would be wanting :n candor Nafarrate to prevent attacks along tho
if I did not, before making answer to ' international boundary, in the follow
the allegations of fact and the condus- ing month of October, a passenger train
ions reached by your government, ex- was wrecked by bandits and several
press the surprise and regret which persons killed seven miles north of
have been caused this government by i Brownsville and an attack was made
the discourteous tone and temper of noon United States troops at the samo
this last communication from the de place several days later,
facto government of Mexico. Carrancista. Aid Bandits.
Reviews Mexican Disorders. "Since these attacks. leaders of tho
"The government of the United bandits, well known both to Mexican
States has viewed with deep concern J civil and military authorities, as well aa
and increasing disappointment the , to the American officers, have been en
progress of the revolution In Mexico. ' Joying with Impunity the liberty of the
Continuous bloodshed and disorders i towns of northern Mexico. So far has
have marked Its progress. For three I the Indifference of the de facto gov
years the Mexican republic has been ernment to these atrocities gone that
torn with civil .strife: the lives of I some of these leaders, as I am advised.
Americans and other aliens have bees j have received not only the protection of
sacrificed', vast property developed by that government, but encouragement
American capital and enterprise have j and aid as well?
been destroyed or rendered nonpro- Depredations Still More Numerous,
ductlve: bandits have been permitted "Depredations upon American persons
to roam at will through the territory ' and property within Mexican Jurisdic
contlguous to the United "tates and tion have been still more numerous. This
to sleze. without punishment or with- ; government has repeatedly requested,
out effective attempt at punishment, in the strongest terms, that the de facto
the property of the Americans, while ' government safeguard the lives and
the lives of citizens of the United homes of American citizens and furnish
States who ventured to remain In Mex- the protection which international ob
S. rli or to.1rturn there; to i ligation imposes to American Interests
k.".... ...:., inymuia, uave oeen m the northern states of Tamanlinas.
, ih, ; v t s i ., i, .
imevv ijovn, i,DaaUiiA, aiuuuiua ana
taken, barbarously. In some cases the
muraerers nave neither been appre
hended nor brought to Justice.
"It would be difficult to find In the
annals of the history of Mexico condi
tions more deplorable than those which
have existed there during these recent
years of civil war.
Outrage on American Soil.
"It would be tedious to recount In
stance after Instance, outrage after
located, but said it was not in Bl Fatso. ' outrage, atrocity after atrocity to i-
Sonora and in the states to the routh.
Looting of Caul Mines.
"For example, on January 3, troops
were requested to punish the bands of
outlaws which looted the Cusl mining
property. SO miles west of Chihuahua
city, but no effective results came from
this request During the following week
the bandit Villa with his band of about
209 men was operating without oppo
(Cootlnaed on pare 3, CoL 1.)
l
The Note Really Reads As if The President Meant Business This Tims
