WW".
j-«yvvv
5vcTw
'i ,t ir-,
EVENING
EDITION
VOL. 11, NO. 145.
mm
mm
San Antonio, Texas, June 20.—General Funston today
requested the war department to send him as soon as pos
sible a large party of national guardsmen to be stationed
along the border "from Brownsville to the Pacific coast."
Funston did not make public the exact number re
quired, but said he asked for enough to provide for "ade
quate protection" for the border.
Be also withheld the names of the stations to which
the guardsmenadmitted that a
siderable force will be mobilised tn San Antonio as a
5' WAR
»«, JmyJ
itaitalier of NalioMal' Guardsmen to be stationed on tlw border, "from
wnsviilc to, the, Pacific coast," reached thp frqr dqtarbneiit late
today, resulting in telegraphic requests for Information as to when the
forces of certain states will be able to move, oidni for the en
Iralnment of unite ready-for (be service are expected tonight
Officials did not Mate the number of guardsmen General Funston
had requested-In his note.
CARBAJiZA OFFICERS, ENMSTUfG MANY.
El Paso, Texas, June 20.—Hunger is swelling the army of Car
ranza recruiting In Northern Mexloo, in preparation for pwlWe
hostilities with tho United States, according to stories brought here to-.,
day by Americans arriving from tike Interior. Peons, who for
time have been on tbe verge of starvation, have been flocking to his
standard In the last few days In return for promises of food and cloth
ing, they said. No applicants have been rejected, according to the
stories which told of boys ten and twelve years old and men too aged
to 6tand' erect being recruited. One of the arrivals, an American busi
ness man of Mexico City, estimated that there now are 35,000 Car
ranza troops in Chihuahua state, of whom 2,000 are in fihihMhn^
City, 4,000 in Juarez, and 5,000 In Villa-Ahumada. The remainder prac
tically surrounds the American expeditionary force on the south, east
and week
AMERICANS ARRIVE AT DOUGLAS.
QNIRAMiMMY
Douglas, Ariz., June 20.—Approximately 100 Americans,
about 20 women and children, arrived here early today (no Nicoua
The trip waa without incident.
Early Sunday morning the official message of Governor De Im
Huerta, calling on the citizens to arm themselves, was received in the
Naeozarl and Pilares Twin mining camps, in Pllares the miners round
ed up all Americans and held them under armed guard for 24 hours.
In the meantime, arms were distributed in the plaza to all per
sons, even women, young girls and boys, who applied for them. Sim
ilar scenes were enacted in Nacozarl, though the Americans were not
molested there. Monday, under orders from General Calles, the prto
oners in Pllares were released. At 4 o'clock orders came through
capital management from Consul Frederick Slmplcfc that fonlgnen
must leave Mexico at once
A number of Mexican families accompanied the Americans as far
north as Agua Prleta, but before crossing the line they were forced to
leave tbe train by orders of General Calles.
One or two Americans from Isolated camps, to the south of Xaoo
•arl, who were aboard the train, have. received word to come out In
time to catch the special. Three French subjects im Onmnas also an
preparing to come to the border.
U. S._NAVY TO EXPERIMENT WITH HYDRO-AEROPDANES
Washington, June 20.—For the first time In the history of the
American navy, experiments to determine the availability of hydro
aeroplanes for spout, duty at.sea are to be undertaken the sum
mer maneuvers of the Atlantic fleet. Six of the ace now
being put aboard the armored cruiser North Carolina, the shin
at the Pensacola naval aviation station, which has been ordered to
take part in the maneuvers.
The North Carolina: is. fitted with a catapulting device br mrnnn
of which the hydro-aeroplanes can be shot out into the air in anr
weather, no matter how rough the sea. The device was recently oer
fected and is an advance over anything In foreign navies. Hematb.
fore, it. has been possible to use aircraft only in nlm weather «fani
they could be dropped overside and rise from the -..far-, of the
water.
The North Carolina will be fitted also with *iTJr~irni ihiiisiIiib
plant and carry a kite balloon for Observation «m flre rrTTttlnir li i'ii
operate as a scout In advance of the fleet and hydro-aemftuSa win tm
employed to extend her radius of action It is
balloon to rise'above the ship to a considerable Shteiwi during-
neuvers, and officers in a. basket, connected with the shin hr
phon, will direct the lire of guns from this altitude. If the
works out suocessfally every fighting ship In the navy will be
equipped.
PACIFIC FUEET FIiAGSHXP 8AIL8.
San Diego, CaL. June 20.—With Admiral C. R, Wtoslow, com
mander-ln-chle« of the Pacific fleet, aboard, the irmored^SSr »Tn
21S?0'fflap,hlp of the Padflc fiwTsMled from hSea^y
either Guaymas or Mazatfaa.
.''.f eJL
\i
v-
D. J. Hull, Well Known here,
Succumbs to Heart
'gf- Failure.
Fargo, N. D., June JO.—J. Hull,
right or way agent of: the ^Oreat
Northm, frho spent: many roonths ln
-OffBd. Fmks'.severat ysara^ago dar^
inr extensive railroad operatioBS
there, disd Of hsart btilur* on the
train between Chlealro and llinns-
re^«
THAI NUMBBI WW BF
AT SAN
mm,
AS TO
General Declares That He Will Have Enough For "Ade
quate Protection"—Number of Americans Leave
Mexico For Douglas, Arizona.
NO
request for large
i-Fii^ stops Vio­
lent Attacks onVerdun
rrotlt:
At
P*Viai Jun« 20.—Tbe Qerman at
^acto itode laat ntajbi en Vtaae*
t)«pa..nortliwest re
pulsed by fire from^ th# FH«6h' ma-
au
^•v^v:'-nsw
SEVERELY REBUKES
KING AIPHONSO GETS
REQUEST TO MEDIATE
U. S.-MEXICAN AFFAIR
Madrid, Jane 20 via Paris).-—
King Alphonso received a telegram
from a committee representing the
Spanish colony of Mexico City a]v
pealing to him to offer to mediate
between Mexico and the United
States so as to prevent war.
SEVERAL HANK
BROUGHT
Germans and English Have
Air Fight in Which Some
Machines are Shot Down.
London, June 10.—The British of
fieiail statement Issued lut 'ntgttt
reads:
QerniMi' infiatrr ^cat-'
rled out no enterprises along our
front. Except for heavy spelling of.
our trenches southeast of Neuyl|le-St
vaiast, enrimyjartlllery waS' quieti
"Arras was .shelled, and yesterday
there has been shelling about. Be
court, Thiepval and Hulluch. East
of Souchez there have been recipro
cal trench -mortar actions. Yesterday
our artillery dispersed enemy parties
West of Hulluch, and the enemy ex
ploded a.email mine, which destroyed
one. of his. o»n posts, but did us no
damage. There wasv a marked in
crease in the work of hostile aircraft:
In' all, there were 27 combats,' in
which the enemy suffered the follow
ing lossjes:.
'One hostile aeroplane was brought
down in .our lines near Doullens the
occupants- were made prisoners. Two
of our fighting aeroplanes encoun
tered two Fokkers in the vicinity of
One hostile machine' was driv­
en down damaged the other, shot
down, crashed to earth from 4,000
feet. In other air fights two German
machine*'were driven down in a dam
aged condition and another was
brought down near Wingles.
Hostile reconnaissances,
4.
which
crossed our lines in force, were at
tacked and dispersed by our aero
planes. One of our pilots reports
seeing two hostile machines hit by
anti-air craft flre.
"Two of our machines in combat
were brought down In the enemy's
lines."
MAINE NOMINATES
REPUBLICAN MEN
Portland, Maine, June 20.
nomination by the republicans at
Carl MlUiken for Governor, and
Frederick Hale for United States
Senator is assured by returns from
the primary election today.
UNITED LUTHERAN
MEETING TO END
Fargo, June 20,—The United Lu
theran conference in session here the
past six days, will conclude its work
tonight the decision to adjourn at 10
o'clock being made this morning.
During the last two. days, the con
vention has disposed of its business
with remarkable speed.
HQ
At
'£1
"0"T» W OAKOtA'S W NEWSPAPER
GRAND FORKS, N. D„ TUESDAY EVENING, JUNE 20, 1916:
IN
Burnquist Obtains Safe
gin over Samuel Iverson,
His Onljr Competitor.
St. Paul, Minn. 'June 20.—Frank B.
Kellogg's victory, in the republican
contest for United States Senator is
the outstanding result of today's Min
nesota's primal^ election. The St.
Paul attorney romped into the nomi
nation with a%lag lead over A. O.
Eberhart. .Other? leading features of
the primary were:', Governor J. A. A.
Burnquist's, overwhelming victory for
the republican ,gubernatorial nomina
tion. The th'rae.i.cornered race for
the democratic nomination for gov
ernor was close and uncertain.
Thomas Frankson's nomination for
Lieut-Governor'oyer James A. Peter
son is now certain. Defeat of Con
gressman Geo. R. Smith, marks the
only Mimus^ota congressman to lose
in the primaries The.nomination of
Henry. .Rines, former speaker, for
state treasurer alfto Is certain.
The re-nominktipn of Judge Ira B.
Mills, for ralltt-o^d and warehouse
'CQtbitiisMonsr and- the close race for
Associate.. Justlcsv of the supreme^
court, with Justice Albert Schaller
leading.-and the .other nominee in
doubts are interesting features,Sena
*or Clapp's. nor showing, even In
'districts
'wherj(:jhe expected to receive
an indoraamejtt' for vote on the Gore
resolution oantf as a surprise. Dan
W. I*w|ar. 8|i Paul, will be Kel
logg's
democratic
opponent for the
Senate*: while Qfov. Burnquist'a adver
sary is attli unaertatai Harold Kmit
son. of 8t, Cloud lauapparently the re
puhlicap ne^n^5W»»BngMw4n the
icceed JG&A. .^nd-.
-i,.
vOTWgSig|a|K^Mr
i^nlcte'' Itfia,
over for«e»«ertGr»sema^C). b. Buck
man.
to J«»e oongrMpo^l distriots Where
thftrv were contents the following
seemed to be winners: .v
First District—Republican. Sydney
Anderson democratic, Henry \LaiH
berton.
Second—Republican, Franklin Ells
worth.
Third Republican. Chas. Davis
democratic, E. F. tCelly, Jr.
•Fourth Republican, Dartous
Reese democratic, Carl Van Dyke.
Mfth-—Republican, probably Ernest
h. Undeen democratic, Addition
Bowler.
Late Report.
Sixth district—Republican.
Knutson,.. leading Democratlo, Wil
liam F. Donohue.
Seventh district—Republican, An
drew J. Volstad, democratic, Irve
Townsend.
Eighth district—Republican, Clar
ence B. Miller, socialist, Jules J. An
derson.
Ninth district—Republican. Harvor
Steenerson, democratic Carl E. Swan
son, socialist, T. A. Thompson, Rich
ville.
Tenth district—Republican, Lowell
E. Jepson, democratic, Neil M.
Cronln, progressive. Thomas D. Schall.
BALLOONS AND
PLANES OFFERED
San Francisco. June 30.—The Pa
cific Aero club telegraphed Adjutant
General C. W. Thomas of the Cali
fornia state militia, yesterday an of
fer of eight areoplanes, three balloons
and the services of three aviators.
The balloons belong to Edward Unger,
a balloonist.
RECRUITING IS
STILL LIVELY
(Herald Special Service..
Winnipeg, June 18.—Western Cana
da has recruited away over the num
ber assigned to the west of the five
hundred thousand men Canada has
offered to the empire- Alberta prov
ince is 5,000 over the number, and re
cruiting is still brisk, aa it la In Mani
toba. In the last two weeks Winni
peg district added 1,300 men..
THE FLAG WHOSE HONOR MUST BE MAINTAINED IN MEXICO.
Sj EBWK||
|p
BR
ma
j^y
DULUTH VOTES OUT
ITS SALOONS BY A
MAJORITY OF 505
Duluth, Minn., June 20.—Duhith
banished itA saloons In yesterday's
local option election by 505 votes,
according to complete returns to
day. The vote was one of the heav
iest In the city's history. Duluth
is one of the largest cities in the
country to oust saloons by local
option.
AUTONSlO
LEAVE MEXICO
QIYAT ONCE
Special Agent Rodgers Ar
ranges for Special Train
WilLRemain. ...
Washington, June 20.—Special
Agent Rodgers of Mexico City, noti
fied the state department, that he is
frtranging a special train to take
Americans and other foreigners from
Mexico City to Vera Oruz. He will
.remain at his post.
Rodgers'
message
told of many
anti-American demonstrations, pa
rades and mass meetings in Mexico
City and Increasingly bitter sentiment.
MM(M70R
6ENDEKE
TODAY
Former Grand Master of the
State Honored by Ma
sons at Fargo.
(Herald Special Service.)
Fargo, N. D. June 20.—Memorial
services for Halfden Bendeke, former
Grand Master of the State Grand
Lodge, featured the opening sessions
today of the North Dakota Masons.
Grant Hager, of Grafton, a life long
friend of Mr. Bendeke, made the ad
dress, and Norman B. Black, of Grand
Forks, sang. About 300 Masons are
here for the state grand lodge.
FEW CASES OF
"DRUNKS" RECORDED
(Herald Special Service.)
Winnipeg, June 19.—Since the com
ing Into, effect of the Manitoba Pro
hibition Act, the "drunks" and the
"drutik and disorderly" cases on the
police court docket, have practically
disappeared.4 Not half a dosen cases
have been before the judge. In the.
first 15 days of June. The average
before June .l .was 30 to 40 dally.
v-K
1
I f-
1
m,
'. -J '.. .h i.-tj v: ,.: i/V' /••M".
1
LARGE NUMBER OF MILITIA
AMERICAN HOIE, DEIMffi) TODM,
FUTLY REFUSES TO KIM TROOPS
TO
V*
FOR HIS DISCOURTESY
OVER BORDER
jV£ It
TWELVE PAGES—PRICE FIVE CENTS.
UNITED STATES NO LONGER Will
ENDURE DEVASTATIONS, IT SAYS
WW EULEY PROTECT TERRITORY
Defacto Government Told That it Did Not and Does Not
Desire Punishment of Bandits—United States
Will Not Recede One Step.
Washington, June 20.—President Wilson has told
Carranza that the American troops will not be wtihdrawn.
The note replying to Carranza's request went forward to
day. It carries a rebuke for the Carranza government for
the discourteous tone of its last note.
The long continued outrages against Americans and
their property both on Mexican and American soil are re
newed in the note, which is 6,000 words long.
The warding is given that the troops will be kept in
Mexico until the defacto government performs the duty
the United States sought in pursuing" the banditsf ^C^h-iiUft
eluding the note declares that if Mexico continues to ig
nore this obligation by carrying out the threat to defend,
its territory by an appeal to arms against American "troops,-:
the gravest consequences will follow.
"While this government would deeply regret such a
result," says the note, "it cannot recede from its settled de-
termination to maintain its national rights and to perform
the full duty of preventing further invasions of territory of
the United States and removing the peril which Americans
along the international boundary have borne so long with
patience and forbearance."
"I am reluctant to be forced to the conclusion which
might be drawn from the circumstances." Lansing declares,
in the note "that the defacto government, despite the
crimes and sinster designs of Villa and his followers, did
not and does not now intend or desire that these
should be captured, destroyed, or dispersed by the Ameri
can troops or. at the request of this govenir.icnt. by the
Mexican troops."
The purposes of the United States government toward
Mexico, questioned in the last Mexican note, were an
nounced in the following language:
"If denial is needed that this government has had ul
terior and improper motives in its diplomatic representa
tions, or has countenanced the activities of American sym
pathizers and American press opposed of the defacto gov
ernment, I am glad most emphatically to deny it. It is^
however, a matter of common knowledge that the Mexi
press has been more active than the United States pres
endeavoring to inflame the two peoples against each
and force hostility."
WAR OR PEACE IS rp TO CABRWZA.
Witli Wilson's firm refusal to withdraw the troops ou (he
the administration continued preparations to nuet any cmeri
that might arise. It is agreed on all rides that war or pcaw rests
Oairama. The position of the Vnited States poinu-diy set forth
its review of the apparent Inability of Carranza to keep the obi
tions he owes the world by preservation of order in his domain.
'It," says tbe note, "tbe defacto government is pleased to ignored 1
this obligation, and to believe that -in case of rctUsal jto retire the'
troops, the*® is no further recourse than to defend Its territory by an'
appeal to arms' tbe government of the United States snrdy would be! v,
lacking In sincerity and friendship if ft did not frankly impress upon?*! 4s
tbe defacto government that tbe execution of this threat will to
«h» gravest consequence."
lfie note, copies or wblcb were furnished all foreign embassies,
also serves notice tbat as long as the Carranza forces continue to nre- ii
sent this attitude, no anna, ammunition or machinery for their —nM- I
facture win be permitted to reach -Mexico from the United States.v''
Repudiating Gamma's insinuations of United States bad faith, tbe note'i
says:
"If this government had designs upon tbe territory of Mexico, It
would have no difficulty in finding during this period of revolution aid
disorder, many plausible arguments for intervention." 't'
NO ATTEMPT MADE TO PUNISH BANDITS.
Taking up the activities of Villa and his followers and the ap
parent Indifference of the defacto gononent in Ii MMm the
outlaws to Justice,
(h*
note says:
•It Is true that VlfiaTowtro and Ijopes wen publicly declared to
be outlaws and mhject to apprehension and execution, bat so far as
known only a single ipan personally connected with fills mai—mi baa
been braocht to Justice by the Mexican authorities. Within a —v
after the barbarous slaughter of intensive Aaaerlcam tt was mtumul'i"
ous that Villa was openufe* within «o MfaMHUtnl
publicly stated that his pupoae was to destroy flmti lnan Uvea ui
property. Despite the repeated, and insistent demands that nttttnr*
protection should be tanKSlto Americana, Villa stfll
on his_operationa, oonta«tf? approsAiug ctoeer
MWXIOAK QOTBUMKW MEW OT
"In tet aa am
toward the Amliin ftwtht In Aa
Mex^ nota tfnaleltnlnanscMlar waa aaen in
8i
Hi
$Am)
***tf *t 9$
outlaAvs
and closer
VBF* TTT IM BOC OLTMMM DOF WCFB TFTLS MMIWKUIU TBMDTF
Am+m ,i -.—J* i. «^i.
t» fly bo».,j
