THE BARRE DAILY- TIME
VOL. XX NQ. 82
BAIIRE, VERMONT. TUESDAY, JUNE 20, 1916.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
FUNSTON REQUESTS
MILITIA IMMEDIATELY
American Note Flatly Asserts That
United States Army Will Be Main
tained in Mexico Until the De Facto
Government Protects American Bor
ders From Raiding Parties
UNITED STATES PREPARED
TO BACK UP ITS WORDS
No applicant 1 rejected, small boy and
old men being recruited.
An American business mafi from Mej-
ico City estimated that 25,IHM t'arran
za troops are in the state of Chihuahua
and he said that the American expeai
tionary force it practically surrounded,
Both EI Paso and Juarez were outward
ly calm to-day.
GERMANS SEEK
WEAK SPOT IN
FRENCH LINE
CLASS DAY AT MIDDLEBURY.
Made Three Assaults Last
ment
Meanwhile the Efforts of the Govern
ment at Washington Are Being Di
rected Toward Perfecting the Militia
Organization So That It Will Be Ef
fective in Patrolling the Border
San Antonio. Texas, June 20. General Funston to-day requested
the war department to send him as soon as possible a large part of
the national guardsmen, to be stationed along the Mexican bound
ary from Brownsville to the Pacific ocean.
. Washington, D. G, June 20. The American note, flatly rejecting
Carfanza's demand for the withdrawal of United States troops
from Mexico and rebuking the Carranza governmept for the dis
courteous tone and temper of its last communication, was handed
to-day to Eliseo Arredondo, the Mexican ambassador-designate.
The long-continued outrages against Americans and American
property, both in Mexico and on American soil, were reviewed in
the note, and a warning was given that the troops will be kept in
Mexico until the de facto government performs the duty, which the
United States has not sought, of pursuing the bandits who ought
to be arrested and punished by the Mexican government.
The note concludes with the statement that if the de facto gov
ernment continues to ignore its obligations and carries out its
threat to defend its territory by appeal to arms against the Ameri
can' troops, the gravest consequences will follow.
"While the government would deeply regret such a result," says
the note, "it cannot recede from its settled determination to main
tain national rights and perform its full' duty by preventing fur
ther invasions of the territory of the United States and in remov
ing the peril which Americans along; the international border have
borne so long with patience and forbearance." -
"I am reluctant to be forced to' the conclusion which might be
drawn from the circumstances," declares Secretary of State Lan
sing, "that the de facto government, in spite of the crimes com
mitted and the sinister designs of Villa and his followers, did not
and does not intend or desire that these should be captured, de
stroyed or dispersed by American troops or, at the request of this
government, by Mexican troops."
The United States' purpose toward Mexico, which was ques
tioned in the last Mexican note, was announced in the following
language :
"If a denial that this government has had ulterior and improper
motives in its diplomatic representations or has countenanced ac
tivities of American sympathizers and American press opposed to
the de facto government is desired, I am glad most emphatically to
deny it. It is, however, a matter of common knowledge that the
Mexican press has been more active than the pre&s of the United
States in endeavoring to inflame the two peoples against each other
and to force the two countries into hostilities."
WON'T DECLARE WAR,
Carranza Still Further Revises His
i Early Statement
Mexico City, June 20. The street and
public squares of the ' capital were
thronged all yegterdnyafternoon with
patriotic parade, who marched to the
various public offices, led by bands and TT-fRFF OTHFR POINTS
dence of their willingness to defend the
country a honor and dignity in case of
foreign war.
More than 10,000 persons gathered in
the great square bounded by the cathe
dral and municipal palaces, where they
were addressed by General Carranza and
War Minister Obregon and other mem
bers.of the government. General Car
ranza told the assembled throng that
Mexico was not seeking war, but would
not avoid it at the cost of national dig
nity
"Mexico," said General Carranza, "will
not declare war on the United States,
but will know how to do her duty if
hostilities are forced upon her."
, A meeting of the Mexican workingmen
organizations was held and decided to
send a. commisbion of workmen to Pied
ras Negras to confer with a committee
Senior Scholarship Honors Went to Sev
en Women and Two Men.
Middlebury. June 20. Class dav exer
ciscs of Middlebury college wero held on
one campus yesterday. The procession
formed at the Kgbert Starr library and
marched to the south side of the chapel,
where the ivy was planted by the claa4
president, Philip W. Ferguson. The pro
cession then in a relied to the platform,
where tlie exercises were held as follows i
Address ,by the president, Philip W,
rergusoni ivy oration, Donald W, oal
Nlfifht OR rOSltlOriS North- "ur)'; c hory, Anna Robert in
" lor; oration, Claries R. Wright-, .class
WPQf. Of Hill 3x1 nnH WprP poem, Harriet Clarissa Myers, class
nronhecv. Robert Arnold and Henrv K,
Repulsed Each Time by Aylward; essay, Helen Esther Kchdrick;
class will, Frederick L. Fish.
rrench Machine Gun Fire, Th elections from the senior tins to
, I'hl Beta Kappa were announced, there
SaVS Paris Official State- Mng ev" women and two men,
n .. . .- - t- i u ...:
iuiiuws; iuirh era vrnuiu 01 viiiiie-
batig, Conn., Miss Ada Tiarneg of Middle
bury, Mies Olive A. Hall of Putney, Miss
Wenona Shattuck of Weston, Aiiss Mar
jorie J. Lee of Vergennea, Miss Harriet
C Myers of West more, Miss I'lora 1
Milraarth of Addioon. A. J. Parker of
Morrisville and C. G. Ross of Rutland
In the afternoon the University oLVer
mont defeated Middlebury at basebail by
the score of 15 to 1, the home team
playing a poor game in the field.
The Merrill and the Parker prize
speaking contests were held last evening
before a large audience in the Longrega
tional church. Judges were thru mem
tack on an Advanced Sap be" of t,,e c,as,8 of b,u for iu J?,Ul
atmivopcarv anil ri itt Kin Tnttr WiW A III
in t.hf ftpcrion of MiVIipI. Daniel J. Riley of Dayton. O., Principal
Ezra V. Benedict of Walden, X. Y., and
DaCh. DUt the Effort AlSO -fudge Thomas It. Noonan of Buffalo, N
' v t-i r : i t t:i - .v.;.. a
ADJT. GEN. TILL0TS0N
IS AWAITING ORDERS
HEAVILY BOMBARDED
In the Vosges the Germans
Attempted a Surprise At-
.St. Albans, June ' 20. Reports
received to-day at the headquar
ters of Adjutant General la-e S.
Tillotson of (he-first regiment of
. infantry, Vermont National Guard,
show that the regiment is prepared
to go into camp at the state camp
ground to-day if neeestftry. All of
the companies are reported to be
recruited up to the minimum
strength of 03 men, which is re
quired before they can lie accepted,
but not of course to the service
strength of 150 men.
General Tillotson is now await
ing orders from the department of
the east, commanded by Brigadier
General Leonard A. Wood, before
ordering the regiment to the camp.
A number of otlieers are already at
the state camp near Fort Ethan
Allen, completing the arrange
ments for the camp; and the camp
is in shape for use to-day, if .re
quired. Major F. S. Watson of St.
Albans, ot General Tillotson's
staff, went to the camp grounds
to-day.
Resulted in a Failure
G. S. COMMERCIAL
GRADUATES BANQUET
Enthusiastic Event in Commencement
Week at the Seminary Was Held
Last Evening, with Interest- t
ing Program.
Commercial class graduates of God
dard seminary, who represented every
Paris, June 20 Three German assaults
made last nurht on French nomtion ;.." - I . ' . .
from the American Federation of Labor northw of l.iir.T?i ,.,',i.j hv third, Charles J. Lyon of Mamlora, JV
and to rise every effort to prevent war the fire of French machine guns, savs , f"'1 1u
between the United States and Mex- the official war statement to-dav. xhePI"ldlbuJy
ico
?7 r.irs a rrn in iha "Morrill (nnf.f.. with
the same speech that won second prize ince A910' PreS("nt; at A,um,ni
this evening. The winners of the Mer- hal op the hill last evening for the
rill prize for sophomores were: Va!'
bridge B. Fullington of Johnson; seoend
Harold F. Drew of Haverhill, Alas.
Germans heavily bombarded French posi
tions in the neighborhood of Yaux, Chap
itre and Chattancmirt. In the Vogcs a
surprise attack of. the enemy upon an
Angelo Lamperti Died This Morning advanced ap in the region oi Michel-
i uhk rruiic-u in iiuiufj. ,
MONTPELIER
DRIVING A0STRIANS ON.
After Two Years' Illness.
Angelo Lamperti died at 1 o'clock this
morning at his home, 2'28 Barre street.
having been in ill health for Uo years Victorious Russians Continue to Capture
with tuberculosis. He suffered a hem- t .
nr ,!. iu;. : i. uj : rnnwncts.
'..i i tm inin iiiwi niiitil It-nuilvtl till
his death. He was born 55 vears ago in I London
Arcisate, Province of Corno, lta.lv, and Czernowitz, capital of Bukowina, the
came to America 18 years ago, residing nussians are well on their way from that
tor several years in .Northfield and came city and from various points along
first annual banquet of the alumni bsso
ciation formed two years ago. Due chief
ly to the energy of the 1016 graduates,
Prin. O. K. Hollister and Mrs. Beals, who
nd firth Henry H. Chapman of ftered for. the banquet the affair may
ebury. The winners of the Parker set down 88 successes
or comraencemeni weeic ai iioaaaru. i no
school colors and class banners bulked
large in an attractive decorative scheme,
the Goddard combination, red and white,
being particularly conspicuous, with oth
ers as follows: '19H, purple and white;
U)Io, ereen and sold; 1916. buff an
contest for the freshman class werei
First, Paul M. Pitkin of Marshfield; sec
ond, William V. Bullis of Corinth, X. Y.
SENIORS' DAY AT NORWICH.
Graduating Cadets Had Exercises Un
dergraduates' Day Yesterday.
Xorthfield, June 20. Senior day exer
cises were held to-day at Norwich uni
versitv. the nrocram opening with com-
nanv drill in close, and extended order the alumni association, acted as master
June 20. Having captured ami l-Mn-r f,illr.u..,l hv- mrnhnf. piercines of ceremonies and resiionfes were made
I . . r. , .... ... . r -. ... ....
in which a dismounted advance guard, as follows: welcome to tne graduatin,
11,1,4 marching eat of the vicinity of Doyle's class, Mr. Lambert; ireuponse. Krnet
! the crossing, encountered resistant by a hos- (King; "Commercial Boys and Girls," Prin.
VERMONTERS
TO MOBILIZE
WEDNESDAY
National Guard, Wliich Has
Been Waiting 24 Hours
After Being Called 0
Yesterday Morning,
Orders To-day to Pr' vld
to State Campgro' in
Colchester '
TROOPS WERE READY
WITHIN 15 HOURS"
Company H of Montpelier
Will Be Given a Good
Send-off When It Leaves,
Although the Exact Time
of Departure Has Not
Been Made Public Re
cruiting Going On
brown. The banquet was served at
lo clock, but it was 1 1 o clock before a
interesting program of afterdinner exer
Icisea and the business meeting were over.
J. Ldward Lambert, L, president o
Special Accnt Rrwlfpr nfc Mpvicn Pitv
i r- 7 o
notified the state department to-day that
he was arranging-for special trains to
take American and other foreigners
from Mexico City to Vera Cruz. He
said that he would remain at his post,
His message told about many anti-for
eign demonstrations, parades and mass
meetings in the Mexican capital and of
increasing bitter sentiment. Xo open
acts of violence were reported.
Official reports from many quarters
show that a flame of popular feeling
against the United States is being kin
dled throughout Mexico. Apparently it
is being done with the sanction of Gen.
Carranza, for the acts in many cases
are those of his authorized military or
civil agents.
From Juarez to the west coast of Mex
ico, pobters have appeared calling the
people to arms, and asserting that the
I'nited States is preparing to hurl its
arms into Mexico. Chaotic conditions
prevail everywhere, it is said. Clashes
Biich as that between Mexican troops
and American bluejackets at Mazatlan
Sunday show that relations are utrained
to the breaking point.
The act of a subordinate commander
anywhere may bring on fighting that
will result in war.
Increasing uneasiness over the plight
of iome 5,hxi American civilians now
in Mexico was manifetcd in official
quarters. Approximately 1.20O of that
number are in Mexico City, despite warn
ing after warning through American con
sul and other officials.
Officials do not believe the Carranza
government would sanction an attack
on American residents or tbst other for
eignr would be involved in any ce.
A Veapon of terrible possibilities is be
ine forged in Mexico, homever, with the
attempts to incite the ignorant rtmn pop.
illation to war-like feeling aainot the
Inited Stat1. Mob formed by half
starved nstite. who bsve been told tht
all of Mexix' a-viimulated trouble are
traceable to the Ameri--n, might well
precipitate a sstnatr-n twyond control
of the government.
Careful preparation has been made for
t' e Kc Amerw-an polony tiear Tampion.
f r the Mexico "'ty problem. boeeT,
o ;uIkb presents it-e.f.
gested to one official that an expedition
ary force might be rushed to the relief
of Americans there. He replied that it
would mean moving an army of 50.000
or perhaps 100,000 men and would take
it at least two months to iret them
there.
to Montpelier 10 years ago. In Xorth- river Pruth, driving the Austrians before fii ,.Valrv nafrol on the university bill. Hollister: "Relations " of Busine-s Me
!.l r...., v. n i i . i . I , 1 . l. l , ...I J 1 . . - . I . . ., ,. . .,
tjru nuu .uuiuiri-i luitunni in viHueiiu.-m Lunsnj un: tr-triri.ii fitr anu v iic i i he program was continued this after,
of granite cutting until forced to retire Carpathian mountain passes. noon wit, nnimrtunitr to the mihlic
on account of ill health. He is survived Numerous additional prisoners have to inspect the Ainsworth infirmary, a
by his wife, and five children, John, Fran- been captured by tba Russians in their hnilHintr wbi.h wa madi. nosaihle hv the
cisco Antonio, a student at the Univer-J drive, aud more guns, machine guns, am- pft jij-g. j. p Ainsworth ofWil
sity of Vermont, Arthur, Americano and (munition and foodstuffs have fallen into liamstown. Weather permitting, there
.Mario, all of tnis city, two brothers, tneir haiuls. .. t'etroirrad sets the numb?r -iii ha . knclu11 trm Mu-mh Vnr.
Alfred of fontpelier and Ambrocio of of prisoners taken for. the dav at 3,000. wU-h and St. Michael' college followed
: .. ,1 . : . : i . I 1 r . i.- I . : . : ! t : i . . . .
vaiiiuiina, mm iu in, wno resiue m i; uuun is nu in progress 10 by truard mountinu and eveninor narade.
Pennsylvania. The funeral arrangement the north, in Galic'a end Volhynia, with lTn.nivht the entnr concert wilt he piven
nave not been completed. the Russians generally on the offensive, Dv the. Norwich musical clubs, after
ftut witn tne Austro-Hungarians and the
H. V. WheelfM-k of Pro.pect street left I Germans tenaciously battling ngainst
which there will be dancing.
Fraternity banquets brought under
graduates' day to a close last night, the
day having been filled with a series of
militfry. nuno-uvres.
FOUND NOTHING IN SAFE.
last evening for Mount Clemen, Mich., their further advance,
where he will spend several weeks. In the region south of the Pripot
Mrs. Sobrma Hutchina of Main street i marshes, to the west of Kolki, and alone
left yesterday for Burlington, where she the Stokhod river, where the Kovel-Kov-will
spend aeveral weeks with her daugh- no railway crosses the stream, the Rus-
ter, Mrs. F. J. Robar. sian attacks have been partly repulsed
Kaymond I olton, a student at Amherst by the German General on Linsmzen s ri-Wmn at Cnnrnrd Pnatnffice Had
college, left last evening for Annapolis, torces. according to Kerlin. while north- Tronhle for Nnthincr
Jld., where he will take the physical west of Lutsk the battle is coine in fa-1 - . . .
examinations for admittance to the naval vor of the Germans. . Concord, June -'0. the postoflice here
Petrotrrad admit the ru.nolr.tinn nf- ' hroken into early yesterday morn-
the Russia lines by the Austrians west the afe b!mvn opfn and mo!UT f
of Lutsk, near the town of Lakatehi. but rtpr bl"nlt.9 tolen; Entrance was made
says that the Russians later retrieved P' PnnmK lo-K on a at(or- nt
thio scthflfk I knob of the sate combination was brouen
Th. nn.m.i nf !i,4: ,-- ,;- off and nitro-gl vcenne poured in, out
region would indicate that the uriv
AMERICAN REFUGEES
QUITTING MEXICO
ARRIVE IN MEXICO
Party of 100 Men, Women and Children
are in Douglas, Having Been Or
dered to Leave Mexican
Territory. "
Douglas, Ariz., June 20. One hundred
Americans, including 20 women and chil
dren, arrived to-day from Nacozari, Mex
ico. Consul Frederick Simpieh ha given
notice that foreigners must leave Mexi
co immediately.
(ieneral Calles haa guaranteed Ameri
cans the fullest protection in Cananea.
it wa announced to-day. He ordered
the infantry there to ta'nlitate the de
parture of Americans desiring to leave.
everyone wno can obtain a conveyance
to the border is allowed to leave.
MEXICAN PEONS
DRIVEN INTO ARMY
BY THEIR HUNGER
academy. He passed the mental exam
inations several weeks ago.
Clayton Boyce of the C. H. Cross &
Son bakery left this morning for Stowe,
where he will visit relatives for the re
mainder of the week. -
The funeral of John Merrick was held
at St. Augustine's church this morning
at 9 o'clock, Rev. P. J. Long officiating.
The bearers were James Barrett, Charles
Theriault, W. H. Clossev, John P. Mack.
James Ewing, sr., and James Ewing, jr.,
all being members of the Catholic Order
of Foresters. Interment was in the Cath
olic cemetery.
In county court the cae of Nellie II.
Morse, executrix, vs. Town of Waterburv.
an appeal from probate, commissioners of
the estate of George . Morae, late of
Waterbury, was filed. The executrix ob
jects against the allowance of the rlaim
of the town against the estate for $1,-
3."9.80 and asserts that the town was in
debted to the deceased to the extent of
$10,000. Plumley &, rmley are attor
neys for the appellant.
Referee W.N. Theriault has Issued no
tice .that the discharge meeting in the
bankrupt estate of Kdward H. Towne of
Waterburv will be held at 10 o'clock July
20.
e m
nlhynia has brought the Russians to
within 20 miles of Vladimir-Voiinsk. the
head of the railway running north
through Kovel.
Along the Galician border near Rad
ziviloff the Russians announce the cap
ture of 1.800 prisoners. Berlin report
the situation of the Teutonic allies in
northern Galicia, near Buezacz. as un
changed.
the breakers found neither money nor
stamps. People living near the postotTice
heard a loud explosion about 1:30 o clock,
but the break was not discovered until
Postmaster F. W. Ctiapman opened the
office in the morning. It is thought to
be the work of professionals. State's
Attorney Claire Powell of Island Pond
is investigating.
Williamstown Man in Bankruptcy.
Rutland. June 20. Alfred Bitodeau of
quarrymmi, filed a pe-
Commercial Graduation at Goddard
To-night.
Graduating exercises for the commer
cial class of 1916 are to be held in the
chapel at Goddard seminary this evening
at 8 o'clock. There are 23 members of
the class, four of whom will contribute
TALK OFTIIE TOWN
Miss Angela Tierney arrived in the
city yesterday, after spending two weeks
with friends and relatives in Hartford,
Conn.
Mrs. Charles Smith of South Main
street returned to the city
imamstown, a
uiioii in nanicriipicy wun i nited tat s
Clerk F. S. putt vesterdav. He has lia- ),
bilities of $123.24 and assets of $15. all ,lrlivrH hv Aftv. .lnhn (Jordon and
of which are claimed exempt. ,,.. ill h f,imUli,l lr tho ncminnrv
orchestra.
The program follows: Music, orches
tra; prayer; violin solo, "II Trovstore"
(Verdi), Albert (roslant; salutatory with
essay, "Vermont's Business Opportuni
ties," Miss Kdna Murphy of Granite
ville: essay, "Success in Business," Olgot
Knutson; yocsl solo. "Recessional," (l)e
Kovenl, James McNabb; history. Miss
F.lla Wilson of liarre; address, J. W.I
(iordon; vocal solo. "Love, Sings the
Ijrk" (fiischoffl, MUs Marion Gove;
valedictory with eay, "Better Faithful
of
TALK OF THE TOWN
Miss Glee Wood of Richardson street
returned to the city yesterday . from
Franklin, where she has been passing a
fortnight with rclativr. Miss Grace
Wood, who accompanied her to Franklin,
returned" to Barre last week.
State's Attorney F. K. Gleason and
Deputy Sheriff H. C. Iawsnn of the cap
ital,were in the city to-dav in search of
evidence that will tend to establish the
T-i v ., i : . c .. i .. r : :
. , - --- t uiin raintiuB, .ilish ni7.i
vrsieraay identity of t he person who inmmit iin . : ,.t
from Newburyport, Mass.. where she has ! burglary at the Montpelier Country club orchestra.
i-r.i mn.t.ji , mil t,i ni-iirm nail iu -house a st nipht. I act ic emo nroH rp. I .i. .M .
r - rill till- I'll- ersnillK iV'SUirr utiou m v
a break at file store of F. II. th i-hanl ThnrsHav eveninir at 8 oVIock.
jit his been decided to charge an admis
sion tee ot cents, wmc.n is a departure
from the custom of former years. Seats
were placet! on sale at the Drown phar
macy this afternoon.
Gtrranu ia Recruiting His Army by
Promise of Food and Clothing Amer
ican Expeditionary Force Nearly
Surrounded by Carramttstaa.
her sister.
Miss Kathleen Lrbaron of Waterbury
Center, a 1015 graduate of Goddard sem
inary, ia a guest in the' home of A. G.
Miles of South Main street, while here
for commencement week.
Mr. and Mrs. P. M. Carr. Mrs. Arthur
McNeil and eon, Wesson, who went last
week to attend th taconia high school
exercises at Laconia, N. H., where their
niece, Miss Madeline Edwards, was jrrad-
iiated. returned to their hmie in P-arre
yesterday, making the trip bv automo
bile. Misa Kdnard and her mother.
Mrs. Bertha Kdwards, ai-rompanied the
party to Barre, wbre they will visit
with friends and relatives., for several
days
Jame K. Firie, the well known (?ran
iteville quarrier, a a visitor in the
ccntly in
Riger 4 Co. in Barre were ued advan
tageously by the club house thief, who
entered by breaking a window and then
pn-eodcd to divest himself uf a prison
suit, only to help to retailor himself in
apparel left in a lockt-r by one of the
club members. The prison suit found by
the janitor this morning conforms to the
psttem distributed to state prisoners in
Xew Hampshire. Evidence in Batre wis
I scarce article this mornine. it was said.
to Business Pupils," Harvey E. Averill
Athletics, CTiarlea L. Hoernle; r.x
periences of F"ormer Students and Grad
uates," Miss Rubv Jeffords. '12 "The
Class Ride," Miss Myrle Grafton, '16: "A
Brief History of Our Class," Miss Ruth
A. Sarirent. 'In; "To the Class of lOlj
Miss Marv M. Donetti; "To the Class of
1914." Nathan W. Flint. The remarks
of Coach Hoernle of the athletic team
were filled with humor and Prin. Hollis
ter's pithy response teemed with sound
advice to graduates of other vears as
well as to those students who are to re
ceiVe their diplomas to-night. The pres
ence of Mr, Averill, -a former member of
the faculty, was warmly welcomed. Tes
tiroonwls of the esteem in which thev
are held bv the 1016 class were received
by Mr. Hoernle and Miss Bridces, who
responded briefly to the presentation
speech made by Miss Ella v uson
At the business meeting Miss May
Lake, 14, the secretary, read a report
for 1015-1916. Her report was followed
bv a statement from trie treasurer, Na
than Flint, '14. and the report of the
committee on the purchase of records,
composed of Mr. Lambert and Forrest H
Bellows, '12, was received with interest.
Other reports were: Committee on reso
lutions. Alex Lecasse. '13, Miss Mary
Smollett, '14, and Miss Donetti, '15; ex
ecutive committee. Miss Rridges, H. Les
lie Poor, '14. A vote of thanks was ten
dered the 1015-1916 officers. as follows:
President, J. Edward Lambert ; secre
tary, Miss M. M. I-ake; treasurer, N. W.
Flint; vice-president, Ravmocd Tierney,
'14. It was voted to hold a commercial
class banquet annually on the night be
fore the class graduation.
Officers for the ensuing vear were
elected aa follows: President, J. E. Lam
bert; secretary. Miss Ruby Jeffords;
treasurer, N. W. Flint; vice-president,
Miss Mary M. Donetti; executive com
mittee, Miss Bridges. Algot Knutson. lfl.
Miss Christina Murray, '14: committee
on resolutions, Miss I.ake. Miss Marsar- j
et Lamperti. '14, Miss Josephine Rizzi,
'M-
Among those who came from out of
town to attend the banquet were: Mrs.
Blanche Ward Kent of South lUirre,
Miss Muriel Chamberlain of Warcn.
Miss Erma Coonev of East Barre, II.
Ieslie Poor of East Brookfield, Mrs. Edna
Ormsbee Morse of East Montpelier and
Miss Katherine Murray of Williamstown.
The Vermont "National Guard, which
was called out early yesterday by the
president's order in order to do patrol
service on the .Mexican border with-the
hole organized militia of the country,
ill mobilize at the state camp ground
near tort J-.than Allen, in the town ot
Colchester, according to orders which
ere issued this morning. Since the call
to arms the companies have been held in
readiness for immediate departure from
theirhome stations, while in the mean
time 6teps were taken to recniit to the
full strength of 65 men per company.
At the. headquarters of Col. Ira L.
Reeves, commanding officer of the Ver
mont National Guard, at Northfield, it
was announced that within 15 hours of
the receipt of the order from President
Wilson the Vermont troops were ready
to proceed to the state camp ground.
All Norwich university cadets eligible
for the first squadron of Vermont cavalry
will go. There are 180 men in the squad
ron now, being snort too men. lite
squadron will probably gb to the state
reservation on Friday. It was also an
nounced that there is an opportunity t
join the regimental band.
BRIEF ILLNESS OF PNEUMONIA.
Although over ft dozen applicants ap
peared at the Montpelier armory yester
day and to-day to enlist, Company H at
noon to-day lacked live of having the
necessary o men tor the minimum
strength required. It is expected, how
ever, that a number of others will be ac
cepted as soon a the necessary examina
tions can be made. Orders were re
ceived this forenoon to the effect that
the company shall entrain sometime tomorrow-,
the exact time to be determined
to-night. A passenger car from Whits
River Junction was brought on the north
bound train over the Central Vermont
railroad this morning and set on the
sidetrack near the station to carry Com
pany H to the state reservation.
Following is the complete list ot om-
ers and men of the company, not in-
uding those who have enlisted since re-
ruiting commenced :
Captain, J. Edward Coghlan; first
leutenant. Raymond W . Paine; second
ieutemint, Clarence Lepage; first ser
geant, W. E. D. Coghlan; quartermaster
serseant. Carl F. Nelson; sergeant, Ed
ward Ducket: sergeants, William Can-
ng, Edward Buley. Archie McDonald;
orporals. Robert Glcnnie, P. G. Wells,
Raymond Spooner. John McDon.ild;
cooks. James S. Wood, Lorton Lothrop;
musician. O. E. Russell: privates, Ray
mond Hathaway. Archie Adams. Andrew
ackson. Henrv Deslict. H., W. Sumner,
Marshall llennis, Henry Parker. Thomas
ibley, Henry Galaise, Wallace Smith,
hn Lucia. Lucius Provenche. jr., Jo
seph Jangraw. Ralph Carpenter. Clyde
lucent. James Olcnnic, Merrill Sliewell.
Irville Fordham, George- Stone. Ruel
Baldwin, W. A. Carroll. Merton Martin.
Ralph Lawliss. William Gauld. John
Johnson. A. L. Iird. Francis O'Brien,
Arthur I-omhard. William Greenleaf,
Howard Alexander, Peter Harold Barnes,
Alfred Edwards. William Bbnchard,
Henry Badger, Armon Pinard, f. Vega, '
Charles Cadet, Forrest Blay, Walter
Knutson. diaries Beck, Charles Lovely .
and Myron Davidson.
It has been arranged to give the boys
a good tend-off when they leave Mont
pelier, the Montpelier Military bind hiv
ing been secured to play for the occasion.
GODDARD BOYS BACK ON HILL.
Will Not Join the Colors Before Satur
day, If Then.
Twentv-ftve voung men from Goddard
The program follnw.- "The Call to
Arni" (Henrvl. James E. Phelps; mon
ologue. "Polly's Surprise Party." Sarah
J. Martin; "Memorial Iav Address at
Grants Tomb" (Staffordi". Harold M.
Bancroft ;
"Riki-tiki-tavi
(Kiplingi.
ml the searchers struck Out by auto in, Mi Elizabeth A. Hoar; "Irish Lullaby."
in easterly direction from (nis city
1'nder the atroiig of Mount Sinai
tempi, the Arab pstrol j to have its
Fourth of July outing at the Granite
City park off Avers street, instead of
at intercity park, as was planned origi
nally. This announcement was made to-
ity to-day. Mr. Pirie has in bis posses- j day by Recordrr C. H. Heaton. who
km a lengthily Mgned petition w hich ! state that racing competition, drill.
is to be presented to the selectman of
Williamstown in the near future. The
Ipet.tion. signed by a good many Wil
'imstown taxpayer, ha for it most
immediate purpose the improvement of
Fl Paso. Tex., June 2n. Hunger ilthe highway leading trm the rc.rr.ei at
swelling the army of Crrna. which i
recruiting in i.orthem Mexww in prep
aration for possibilities with the I'nited
Mat, arrdirig to Ameri an refugee
arriving bere. The r-eon who have been
nearly starved are fiorKir.g to Hint
It ug- ard by the promise cf l-xnl and vKtLiag.
Dr. E. H. Baileys residence in firan
iteviUe to th Baptist street road in
H'i!l;in"sii. It ia stated that condi
tion along tiat trail have provokd
much unfavorable comment on the part
Mv Little Love." "The Fairy Pipers."
Miss Mildred Kent; "The Man with the
Muck-rake" (Rooeevelti. Kenneth .1. Til
lotson; monologue, "Ablwe's Accounts"
(Jenksi. Misa Evelyn M. Drew; "The Or
ganization of the World" (Meadi. Earl
. Winter; monologue. "Auntr Lizzy
Hear Grand Opera" (Roatl, Mi Edith
A. Virtue: "Chvrge of the Husr"
(Spindleri. Mis Virtue. Everett W'al
Munt. ete. are open to the world. For
several week the Arab jiatrol has lrn lace. Ruth NeUon. Leona Calef
working on it drill and it the ucat'it-r -
is at all propitious those m'ao join in the i Mis Clcora M. Morse went thi mom-
outing will witness a nne spectac le. 1 he ing to orthtield. w hT she wiil attend
Otto Peterson Died To-day He Was a
Granite Cutter By Trade. ,
Otto Peterson died at the City hos
pital this forenoon at "11 ;30 o'clock, the
end following a brief illness of pneumo
nia. Mr. Peterson was removed to the
hospital from his home, fi Warren street.
Saturday afternoon. From the outset his
condition was critical. He is survived ( seminarv, members of the school battal-
by his wife, and three sisters, two of jj,,n formed last winter, who hastened ti
whom reside in W orcester. Mas. A third , Northfield Monday morning to join tho
sister. Mr. Paul Paakkerman, live in ,-,,),r. came back to the city last even
lnesboro. The ile.-eised wa b rn mjing'. and were at work over their book
Finland around 32 year ago and came to Ugin to-day. It was intimated that th
America as a boy. For 1 years he lived j Norw ich unit will not leave NorthfHl
in .Massachuseu ami ap riinfv-nire. until aiurl iy at tne earnest ni iiiun
coming here from Fitzw illiam. N". H..
three months ago. Mr. Peterson wa a
grinit cutter by trad.
It i expected that the funeral will be
held at the house ihursiiay afternoon,
with interment in He metry.
that t'me the (iod lard Mttalion vvt'I re
main on fl own hilit 'p. Prin. O, K.
Hol!itr. who went to Xorthfield on th-
morning train, got the boy "out of th
trenches" for commencement week and
ifter that some decision will be reehl
s t how many seminary vonfhs will
erve. A number of V"img men in the.
M, Marv J. Wright of Keith ave
ntie left the city lat evening for Mt. ; battalion are t- pani. ipite in the exr
( lemens. Mich., where se will spend ni of the week.
Mi tiertrude Meihalf of 7lse i i f;,-ruit ing neat.iuartr have bn
visiting for a f w day at the home of . t jl.'i'hed at H"il Parr in room ."J'lS b
her ,-oovn. Miss IVth skinner, "n Pr - ' l.ieot. F. !rrv and Frivaf A. A.
Montpelier Mihtrr band is to furnish the roinmn-ment exercise at Norwich fpt street. jog.vm of Xorwxh. lw r using their
music and a gai day is planned f."r all ' university the remainder r.f the wek. Mr Oliver an-1 Mr. 1". C Burgas, of ,rr,M t"iwr tv org noon younz
who attend. Somon among the ctow i ! Theodore Ixuion of SprircfieU. a stu- , CbIea are spending a few days , men th v!e nf mii.t sty t r ming just
will drive home a Oialmers .iX-3il auto.'dent at Dartmouth coU. ge, Hanover. N. ! ruest of Mrs. Henry E. Ho;4on '1 t ti t ire This fr.tctv.on th follow.
.-,,.r,I,nff to the r.-rrder' iinim.-. H . and a I"I5 pradtrate of GsHrl iK-m-1 Hiifhland avenii. " Im: ir;'!''n" 11 h-n fi"!!Mi Jam
ment.
Hi
r.n . IV -t Merirr
Like A'-i B'tt .H-
Tb (hn;e of local from lntr-' inry. arrived in the rity yetrday to i Mr. and Mr. J. T. KeUon. who Lav i.ilwn. .loej-h
of tTiveler thi rrirff and a miirt'i ,itr mrl to the utb nd arn is r. nas ( "minencement w eek with hi htot h- ,' i-it ing !t h f r n 1 on Xi-t t h M vi n I .!' a v. i..
rtmuiiion is hintl at if the road i.v reived favofablv by a Urge iiumb.r if r. HubUrd luV n, a siudent at tb ' street W several .lav , returned ! t-,r j
m fpairet sinner. . v4tmTr. bom ia Lowell, Mas ester da;. tCst inur-i b eigStli ftp )
I
