--s-H'J
THE WEATHE& FORECAST.
Overcast to-day-jtfc to-morrow: colder;
westerly wirtds. '
Highest tetnperatu'A yesterday, 60; lo.wesi, 44.
Utta lied weather, mull and marine rcpurit ou nRo 19.
IT SHINES FOP. ALL
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 215.
NEW YORK, SUNDAY, APRIL 2, 1916. Cowrlph), J r t . by the Aim rrltilfitfl and PitbltahtnAasodnttou.
66 PAGES.
FIVE CENTS.
GERMAN NIGHT
ASSAULTS WIN
VAUX VILLAGE
Hiic French From Posi
tion Northeast of Yerdnn
in Heavy Attacks.
U(, liFNS ACTIVE
WKST OF THE 31 FUSE
iff CuMr Pttptitcli to Ths Sox,
I'ti-.n1. April 1. Tho Hermans at Ver
iton. 'Iilftlng tlit-ir oftriislv from the
mtl liatik of llio Mouse, after the cap
ture of Jlalaiu-ourt yesterday, launched
k tens nf vigorous attacks lust night
afjinst .he village 't Vaux, c-nst of
pouaiimnnl. Thry succeeded In driving
cut the Trench troops which occupied
the western part of tho village.
The ulllil.it report of the French War
(Mine this afternoon, telling; of this at
tack, makes no mention of lighting In
t o eastern p.irt of the village, hut Its
vmnbng gives the Impression that the
tntire village 1h noiv in the lunula of
tie Hermans. The Kaiser's troops en
trel Vaux on March II and occupied
r.ver.il houses. No report has heen riuide
ti,i these positions weie icgalncd by
tie Trench.
Vaux lies to the northeast of the
Slur ground on which the fort of
tlie same name is situated. On the oe
.ivoii of the earlier (ierinan success
icre the liftman sought to push un
toward the furl hut were repulsed.
econil At tuck Winn.
Las'
uig'it'x tlerman successes weie
the seeoi'il of two heavy at
tac TheM" attacks covered the see
ii l ween the wood south of llaudro-mo-
4i tiii region of Vaux. The first
.'.' who h was In the nature of a
. i pr se attack by a large force, t
!.( kid the village from the north and
ie ouili ,t( the mune time, liut falleil
0 ,i li the French lines on either side
o' ''ie Milage. A second attempt wa
n.dile inuieiliately and the Germans were
jule in get a footing In the western
pat of the Milage.
A neat y bombardment of the ravine
b ,. ii Kort I)ou. lumont and Vaux vll
w as tit bum by the Herman artillery
th. iiioniliig. This was followed by .in
.. f.itniy attack which was stopped by
tlif 1'reiich fire curtain.
un the west bank of tho rier llieiu
j .v ioltnt bombardineiit to-day of the
tie h pusltlona between Avocourt and
M.i me (nut.
Tlic official commuiihiue Issued by the
Fi . h War office to-night follows:
In llelglum our artillery lioaibarded
tn ,iy .iiups at l.augcm.irck.
In tne Argonne there was nctlv.ty on
t!iu part of our batteries m Herman
' ranlr.atlons north of l.a llarazee, at
1. 1 I-'lllc .Mortc and on enemy campt
1 the northern part of tliu Hois da
i. ipy.
West of the Mcusc there was an In
tc so boiiibardment of our positions
b. 'wten Avocourt and Malancoiirt,
i. an of the .Meuse a bombardment
o' lorsHbrable violence wan followed
lr. ! ie course of the afternoon by a
('r i .in attiuk ou the ravine between
'' . Douauinont and the village of
V,u. The attack was completely
s;oilnd by our barrage tire.
i j Wuevre there was moderate
a activity.
in tne lest of the front there la
p, , c in report.
liiTiiians Hold Vniii.
.fternoon coinmiinhUe
va a 3
fr.
N '.'li of the Alsne tlu-rr- has been
c t-raale activity on Hi" part of
' lng altlllery force In the
v nf Moulln-SoUH-Touveut and
V i ' no v .
i ',. Argonne dlstric!. we have
dirc cii a destructive fire on the hlgh-
' aid I'lllioad lines of the enemy
t '. norili of li Haute Chcvaiichee.
Tj ii, west of the Meuse there has
t"i'i .in .iitermltt.-nt bombardment In
t ie.- tin of Maluncourt. but wi.hout
a infantry engagement..
To 'lie east of the Meuse the bom
r.' ..mm te'.-ame exceedingly violenl
j-s-trif-i- veiling and last night along
tt" eiyor between the wood to tho
i ' i if llainlroiiiout and the legion of
Vaux Against this latter point the
ie" a. x ip-llvered two sudden at
lii rs, i- which large number of men
I 'ik pan Tne tirl. which was made
f ii lu'li the north and the south at
' un" tune, was checked by our
c-i - in nf the and the lire of our Iti
f' l-'fure It could get us far aa
C : I lies.
r t i , ourse of the seeo.ul attack
ti t i ui-iii), after a very spirited tight.
t. h a.ilt in gain a footing in the
e-i- p.iit of the village of Vaux,
e ji .n b our forces.
Flili S'CU' 11 J ICRS SUFFKP.
a'our
Vlnehliies llrouullt Uoivn
f.crmnii l-'lre.
lb, wiicless lu Say lllc I, Ai.'ll
lie
I ,' n an arin hcudqiiHrtciu Issued j
t" h fie following ic.ort legsciditis
t is s'crn trot.t
N-.i t K.ol an attaek with hand
i.e.adot by tin- Hiitlsh vvas lepulsed.
T.n nan fighting with mines be
t'ffii La Hasse Canal and Nc-uville,
.ii.inaii battle aircraft shot down
four French aeropIaia.-K, Of these one
t', within our lines neur Laon and
atiotlirr mar Mogevllle, In tho
Won.- --vlo fell liehlnd" tho
twin m lines, nne near Vllle-uux-ll'iH
and die other south of Ilaucourt.
T'e Frrneli neindrome at Hosnay west
ef Ithetini was utt.ii.kcd with many
lurim.
FIGHTING AT ST. KLQl.
Sri err llonib AtlHcba .Untie on the
llrlllah Line.
p"al Cnlile litupateh to The Sex
bix-isiN, April 1. Tlie following re
Put from Hrltlsh headquarters in France
"ik Isniiul by the olllclal press bureau
to-night
V.aterday tlirie was considerable
" 'ii activity on both sides.
Tim hnttlhi artillery was active In
on Hie flout between the llnlicu
'".lerii ledoiibf and Souohez. We re
t'h"! b slielllng the enemy's position.
T'ln enemy artillery was active about
I pie.
I....I night Iheie was heavv shelling
e 'sill shits nlMi.it St. "Klol. The
in.-iiij iiiiiiln t Hi Umih attacks ou
' i.- position. These were ro-tailsMi.
THE UN TO-DAY
CONSISTS OF EIGHT SECTIONS
AS FOLLOWS)
Pigea.
FIRST -Central News .
SECOND -Sporting. Kennels,
20
Automobiles , . , 6J
THIRD -Sotitty, Drama, Music.
Schools, Ctrdens, Poul-
try. Fashions , , , 12
FOURTH -Pictorial Magazine . . 4
FIFTH Lithogravure Supplement,
Art 8
SIXTH -Special Features, Books,
Queries, Chest ... 12
S''A'7'f7-Forein. Financial.
Problems . . . . bl
EIGHTH -Real Estate. Country
Homes Competition 4
10
Total
66
ReaJtis or neusdeaUis uho Jo not re
ttlxt all of these sections ulll confer a
ftcor on"The San" by notify tnl tht Pub
lication Department at oner by the phone
(2200 Bekman) and mlsslnf ittttens
uill It promptly fortta'tkd if possible.
DUTCH ALARMED OVER
NEW PHASE OF WAR
Possible Outcome of .Allied
Conference Oivcs Holland
I'licasincss.
I ilu.v inell a .1. ..i.
" """'.my letter of IVbrua. I, 1P1I. to the
Hie Hague says that an extraordinary I ,eio Club of America signifying my
council of the Dutch Ministry was held 1 intention of maklrt a purely scientific
to-dav
The Xlrntcr lloltrriliii.m lir Com tint.
cominentlng on the anxiety now felt In
Holland regarding (hat nation's ability
to keep out of fie war, says that nn-
lefy Is due. pot to the feeling aroued
by the sinking of the Tiib.tntia, hut to ,
"the gemrnl war situation, which, ac-1
cording to Information received, Is now
entering, or Is about to enter, on a phase
which gives our countiy c.iu'e for special
vigilance."
"We do not know, ' tne newspaper con
tinues, "whetlser what the Government
apparently fears regarding the charac
ter of which no exact information is ob
tainable will come to pass within a i
week or a month, or whether the slum- I
,i.. ... n. ni ,.,... , I
critical character for our country. We
venture only the conjecture thut a
change In the situation, which 1 now
considered possible, may be the out
come of tlsf allied conference at furls."
The newspaper sa.vs It understands
that yesterday's; Cabinet Council re
sulted In the t.owrnmetit' consulting the
highest military authorities of the na
tion and 1 1 the consideration of the ad
visability of holding a secret meeting of
the second chamber of Hie Parliament.
In the view of the diurnal, however,
no Immediate danger of war seems to
exist.
Heiorts received In Copenhagen fmin
various sources In Holland and i,ermany
regaidlng the activity now taking plaie (
In Dutch governmental circles lire io tlic I
eueci mai uu iv.t.er' ,i hi-imiv w i.i,., -i
tary anil naval officers nave neen can-
celled, railroad cars requisitioned, as at
the beginning of the war, and meetings
of high naval and military authorities
held.
A news agent y despatch from the
Hague to-night says that reports oi tne
withdrawing or turiongns anu ine .
I requisition of railway rolling stock are
' unfounded.
PLAGUE IN ARMY WAKE.
All lliisslnn Poland nne) Onllela
lint lilted l Tjnhns nml Cholera,
Ll-DI.IN. ltussla, via London, April 1,
The
whole of Itusslan Poland and of
....it. a.. a..a.i itK- ttiM wectlotis wlierpdpv-
' astatlo'n was caused by the passage of
1 the armies. i - ;
'Sai,.r,cUUran:.,,vllhrg!.T'rarge signs
bearinc the skull and crossbone.s give
vvain ng f the presence of the diseases. 1
w Ie lure p evalent everywhere. Hven
h. h - smallest villages there are several 1
funeral- each day.
In an eifort to combat Hie diseases ,
inrt fo help safeguard those who are not)
Infected all the departments of the t'nl-1
verslty of Crac-iw closed their doorH and ;
both studentM and members of the fac-
nltv received special Instructions In vac-1
cln'atlon and Inoculation. In addition
all
l.A ,.v,,lli,l.lA tteif (rosS l.Onnital
physicians , are hard at work,
WAITE'S CONFESSION
OF DOUBLE MURDER
Sijiiied Docnnieiil Sen! lo
Newspaper liy Aceii-ed
Deiilisl.
l-h.. fntliiivii.ir i-oufesMOII by Dl, Allllltr
W. Walte. with a leprodiictlnn of hln ,
signature iittachcd to It. 1. prlntcil in ,
the IVord this morning: .1
I have been mioru en mm i .... r
. ..i.i.i r !, ,,f miirdep In
uecu milieu-., i". hi- - "--- --1
the first degree. I know the punishment
is ileuth. The Indictment Is Just and the
,.itv is nne that I deserve, for I have
killed. I killed John II. Peck und his
wife. , ...... ..
"The IVoidf lias aiwajs neen mn
ami Impartial .aper and one that has
always, tiled lo get the facts fm- the
....sal., (.ml I tlnd that 111 my case you
have 's-eaiihed for the facts and have
given them lo the public, and therefore
In making this my only statement to the
public, which I feel In duty bound to
make. I nildrcs myself to you.
I have thought and thought and
thought while lying In my bed here In
the hospital. I have gone over all the
Incidents of the last few months and my
life and I have made my peace with my
Creator. I now desire to make atone
uieiit for Hie wrong Hint I have done.
-It Is a terrible grief to me that 1
should have brought such obloquy and
shaino upon my wife ami upon Ihu name
of my good patents and made my
brothel h surfer as they do.
"1 am lellevcd lo make this, tnv con
fcsslon." tsllKAlTl,!-:. N. I'. 001.1 MMi. ,
fine nfllin tin, courses in the Uniimry. Ineai
lii Ion I nonl n tno-t iuelurt-iUe .eighty
!!oi ..aiioramle view ol MountaiiK. Klezam
rVnle "'l "otel. KeiKlieil by 80tlTHEKN
RAIIVWaV S, V Oflfif. Ml nflh ATe.-dt;,
WAN AMAKER TO TRY
OVER OCEAN FLIGHT
Orders (igniifir. Triplnno lolonc of Five Airships Jtrourlil j
Cnrr. Oiii Trip Delayed
by tlio "War.
PILOT NOT YKT PICKED
Hne .Mnrliinc Is Vrcdictcd to
.Malic Hip Voyage in
Thirl Honrs.
.lloiltmin
again for
Wanamaker l pioparlng
;i flight nctoss the Atlantic
Ocean In nil aeroplane. A tnuchlne Is flounced to-day that tnent -fight per
iiow under (oiijitructlon for the trip one I sons weie Killed and forty-four Injured
that makes tho old America, once In-' In the Zeppelin raid I.t night. On
tended to he tho Urst rarael of the nlr, j of th fl Xepiplui which lalncd homhs
look lllif a puny scouting machine In. on the cast m.i"t was nhllgul to comr
comparison a giant trlplatie, larger, down In the Thames istuit
than iiovltiln? nic hefnip ilevlsed.! An urmeil n.itrol boat annroaihed the
mounted with motors capable of develop-1
ing I Sort horse-power. The new Wnna-lmid
j iii.iUim' iieinpl.ini' will cross the ocean. It
l preilii ted. In thirty hours of rontluu-'
oils lllglll
'
"""
auama..er man- tue ioiii.hi an-
nouncemelit of Ills ptau lat night to the
Aeio Club of America Jhrough Alan It.
Hawley. Its piesblenl. The plan, how-
eer. had len known to the club otllelals
for many weeks, and Olenn II. Cmtls.-.
,p,l "f neioiuutlcal poner by crossing
I the ocean in one flight, I beg to advise
ou of the following developments .
"Pursuing my purpose to build an
aircraft that will rios the ocean, the
America Transoceanic Company was)
liinpiiiir,il.i.l ttii.l Ihn minmiiu ni-tlltf7
fr m0f tl!M ,,i:u.r, order 'with the
Cuttlss Aeioplaiie Company for a new
"" that w III have more than ten times
the power of the old one. It will lie of
special design, entirely different from
any aircraft hetetofore built and cpe.
dally adapted for alighting on and rls-
iiiK ironi rniifsii seas,
eminently fitted for
tlltht. It Is now under
will be tested at tin
Aeronautical Station
t.'Urr U. (ooprratlon.
Wr;u conuilvted and accepted, and at ,
ih rlhi tliu.. Mi., new Amarlea will '
make the attempt to cross rlie Atlantic.
'in which project I again venture to si;
, the cooperation of the Aero Club of
'America, of voiu ulllllated clubs and
of our own and fordgn Hovernments,
who may be Interested In the flight.
"I still tiellev.. tn.it the first c.rossitn
of the oi:. an will bring quickly In i s
cross In tlie air from continent to con
tinent, a faith which I exptesscd 111 niv
lett.-r of IVhriuiry 4, UH.
"I still believe that the first ciosslng
of th Atlantic Ocean will only mark an
epoch In aerial navigation, and tills faith j
io n- mime ii ..nv.iii.-i inii',,1 i.ini i,i,-
sgii for tin- existence of Ho- American
Transoce.iulc. Company I hope to s-
the day when this company will be
tuiillllig aerial ineis rvguiariy ac!
runn nu aerial l.rieis regularly acmss
the Atlantic and other oc-ans. lie.
speotfully, "Itont.vS Wanamaker '
Tne fun oeiaiis oi consiriicuon oi me
new nlr liner are being knit secret, but
'it Is known that deiiiis were prepared
lV a Stc-ma H. Curllss and W. Stalling llur-
,.FS WIIO snie the anialgamatlun ut tliu
curtlss and Hi" Hurgess coiiniaiibi "aie
winking together. The machine I. a trl
plane on
plane on tin- general lines of those i,0w-1
1...1 ,..a r... ,I,A It-nl.l.
being const ruct.-d for the llrltlsh Hoy
uninent. It In latgei, however, and
fqulpped with engines of far greater
I oner.
The tilplnnes now in uso on the other
slile carry six motors of ICa hore-p.mer
each, with an auxiliary motor of 60
hoise. power for startle;, lighting and
prejiulldoti on the suifacp of the spa.
The new America Is to have six twelve
cyllnder motors of a new design, develop.
3,(f) ,ule.,,wer each, or t.HOUlii all. It
' is the hrat fiine ...at engines even ap-
ilu ; ".' , ' T .. ,
b. en Inetal e, l ln any heavier than air
machine. With the-., the craft will be
rnvahle i of I no miles an hour, carrying a
cn-w of six fiersoiw, togettar with fuel.
ill '.visions. Instrument., and . quipni. nt
needed for the flight, which will take
about (bitty houm.
u,,,.,,. v.. , i.-i.eu
Home in u in i mu.
i, ,s understood Hut Hie flight Is con-
, temilafed for the early part of this sum
. Tim emit,, liuu not beett fleet, lixl
upon,
mil w-iii prouaoiy no unit iiiKeu
for tlie former Am'erlca, from SI. John's,1
N. F. Mr. Wanamaker will not make
the trin In person. The pilot for the
,r,p has not et beet, decided upon. Mr.
Iiawiey sain iasc .ng... ........ ..'r.i
... . .. I..1. .. nl.,..t.. 1 !-...
vviinamnRi-rn niwi i". i-iiiio Kiiiii.
,rhave,,ter,h.U:lro,f!
Porte, who was to nave been tlie pilot or
the first America, but owing to the fact
that ho has been rc-called tn his "ivu
j can avi.itois. .
Aviation men regatd the ptospeel of
a transaiianiic iukih i.h .nn.-i. nny mm
the designer, has been at the Aero Club, n , Z,,.' I '''"ms It lies In the power of the' . oe .iinerua., so.ie. a.e io op.y-
. fieiiuently during tin. last two weeks The salleil high when the l'" ' Am,.rll..,n (ivermneiit to get ak-nlute ; Ing oer a front of seventy-tlvc miles
, conferring on the project. . . il?t r ino'" ,,R ,Mmlr " proof of the faMty of Ambas-ador von and thcr. ,s not a root of that .jl-tance
j Wi'.'il"' -nnouncenient, MI- ';rIy nf lipr0,lcll of . "'r1'", COnirI"i7-MoVV.VloV.rU!"'X tmcoxered. They are now operating with
!.... Mn iiiu i cr smioleineiiilmr ! aircraft was given in Lomlou and other I ""i ." , ,','i',.. ,.' i,.,'rl.rt tn stale, hv six columns commanded by Col. Dodd.
than they did in Iflil, wiiei, .Mr. watia-, , , , ,,. ,.,.,,, .slM, Zeppelin Hn
maker first projected the Idea. It haul w ,,. ,,1.llly M.p,i,.'l de. 1 tt'
Wn ,.,.,,,,,,,! 0 numberless ocx'aslons
th() rxpntM of aeroplanes. In the
w-,,r became known that anyone of the
. HllI,r.AnicrlcaH being shlpiifd to the
up r-
Allies could mane tne trip wnn nine
trouble.
The new- Wnuiitnaker machine Is as
far ahead of the old America as sho
wiiH alieiid of all aircraft before her
time, Aerouuu.lenl experts have ex
pressed full cnntldence lliat this new
venture will he u success. Among them
are Mr Hawley, Henry A. Wise Wood,
Howard Huntington, secretary of the
Aerti Club, and Prof. David Todd, who
bus studied the meteorological condlilons
to be met In the lllght.
The old America, was heralded by Mr.
Wanaiuaker In February, Iflll, as the
(list serious, contender for the offer of
Lord Noiihcllffe of the l.nniliin (nil"
Mull of iriO.onn for the first Allanllc
m .-h i ell. or ine nocieiy in A.-roiiiiiuii: oK-i.i.n.e..
is iserst Hlnier A. Sp.-rry. inventor and rushed lo tin. edge of the- ,-. Tlie Hctiiian ircss ie
. V, ....i., i..l,lll,..e u,.,i ,.,, i.r , "Stun the hunt, she ciled fiant callv. i tlm lleiln offh f refer. are
ti, Vuval Consultlnir Hoard: Law.! "I've got to gel abo.ud I've slot lo bee 1 In expressing Hie opinion
.... it sli.errv. Rhv i. load II. Price. John ms-son " . nilliu damaged Hie Sussex.
,, t .. .,,..,,.,1.1 Jr.. Henry Won.ihotiun In suite of her protests the woman, i the Herman nrwspapeis
flight " he i-oiirsti was puiimcil rron, be last iniuilie anu nne was neia.ieii, mk, lici'inait case win --i sen mi me spue-
Newfouudland lo Fnglanil lu thiee legs ; ' got to the dock less, than live mlniiies 1 inenl that no such lepoii lias been in
the tlrsl to Hie Azores, thence lo Vigo, ton late, l.elv.d. ItiMsiencn by the President Hi.,t
Spain, and thence to Plymouth, ling- Had Hie incident liapjirned In u man, ! such an all.ick was made b.v a Herman
land The war, however, brought plaint the i iimisiii.v otllii.ils explained to her, lm nil, mm ine coiniiiiinibi' could oul.s mean,
in a slop after many delays and changes
In ik-talls of eonslructloii after testing,
The Aineilca was dually bought by Hie
Ilrlllsh tioveinnient for war purposes,
the price paid belnsr reported us I'.'ri.OOO.
ZEPPELIN TAKEN;
28 DEAD, 44 HURT,
Down by Defence (Inns
Off the Thames.
CKKW 3IADK IMUSONKI'S
2:1 Men of the Crew of Hie
L-15 Are Iiclievcd to Have
llccn Drowned,
.'.rent' Cable llrtpatcl. to Tur. i
Iinihi.v, April 1. The Admltatty an-
big airship ns It nettleil In the water j
the clew mm rendered. An attempt
was made to tow the Zeppelin ashore, .
hut mi hadly w.n It damaged, piesuma-1
i''l.n.keu .u'ldVi'i'ik""'1'"" ,h", ,
No'detalls'of theYald hae len m.iib-
N d , ,.M f . , . , ..,,,.
niilillc bv tb. Adniirultv. tint It Is known
that the five Zeppelins separated after
reaching the KnglK, oast so as l c..er
a 'rBr "'J- -ipntm.
,."11c """l' " 1 ' ' .r.l... ', '
cities, and the usual precautions, such
a extinguishing lights and halting rail
road tralni. wire taken. As the omni
bus serMn- in London was stoppd or
diminished, tunny ople were romp) lied
to walk home through the unlit streets,
or si-ok shelter In hotel ami polite sta
tions. Crowds gathered at points of
vantage to see the Zeppelin
The l.-l." Ilroimht lluvtn.
The announcement issued by the
eminent to-day was as follows
"It has in been ascertained that the
.eppcllru winch cairied out the air raid
lat night were organized In two suuad-
nmtaVinil iiilm itet:n lleil shlll Tile two
R(1uadroiis made the eastern counties their
..xlle Xe'ppelln which fell into the sea
was I.-15. Mie was bit by gunfire when
over the eateni counties, a shell strlk
wie snip oeiir inr
tail. After being hit she .fulckly dropped
to a lower all tude. well down by the
tall, and finally came down Into the ,
.i.- t.--.
I "A machine gun. some ammunition, i
, ,. trn1 .mil, rl.l.ll...! ultli til rn III ,el 11K.I
- . .,,,.,, ,,
. , ,. ,', r,,,I(.ri
"Owing to damage to th.. telephone
and tilegrnph wires caused bv leoent '
Hlnrms. It Is tint vet liONltili
to ascer-
tain fully the casualties or (he damage ,
caused. The casualties at fin-sent re-1
n.n..i.i rt ,,. e..,i..i,, L in... I
frt -four Injured." 1
owing to the wrecking or telegraph
,,,,,1 telephone lines throughout England
tj,,. cr,.nt storm earlier In the w.ek It
, ,rotmbe that many casualties have
ni ...... n .,-t ... i m iiu. A,lmir..tic
Seveiitv-six bomlis me known to have
i,een dro'pd by the taideis on the east-
ein and norltieastern con-Hies, nut tlie
mnnlier nmv In. nnicli irre iter, line Zen.
p,4ln 7s known to have reached London,
, pm the Admiralty does not mention any
casualties as occutring in tins district
'J.t nf Crew Oroti lied.
Seventeen men were taken off the L-l
, ..?..!.... t , .
I i-iwrn. aim hip uuiii iiici.iuut'nn, , ... , , .... i.. t. . ,. wn nIAi
, .inn inert-lure h ,.,-llve mill t ie i etac leu slim ran eel . ' - - -
the transatlantic ,,nhest coast ter of oiuen. i n i.ire , an . .....e,
construction and .'S fur as is known at present fifty- combatants, incniiiuig ' "'' " , " "
. Atlantic Coast tour explosive and incendiary lmbs l"r ' I" ..,.V." . "i
at Newpoit News, were droiiped In the eastern counties '" ' " J ... .,, ,,.,.,
bv the ttavvler nbvitie, n lommand of,.,,, ,.xpn-sslon of the highly altruistic
W, It. Mirklnto-h. Nine of these weie
Injured and werv hurried to a hospital,
It Is believed that !H men out of the
complement of to were drowned when
tlie aircraft settled In the Thames estu
ary. Tin- survivors. It Is said, attempted
to destroy fin- nlieraft before It was
taken in tow Hawsers attached lo tlie
.-Piuiln broke and tin- il.-n-llct giadu-
ally submerged, U .1 late hour to-night
only a s.-cimn oi tne envelope is vision-.
iiu- commander ot the airship
fused to stand up In line with Ins fel -
low prisoners vvnen taken ashnie, but
later adopted a more reasonable attl -
lute.
Land battel ies hinl riddled w th
shrapnel the gas hags of the L-l.'i, nr.
cording to her et'w As the '..-piM-Hn
fled homeward she sank lower and
lower. When she fell 1 he tl.iwier Kll.
vine, serving as a patrol Isjat, spnl up
in bee Part of the ciew hail scrambled
to the ton of the shell of the lug craft,
ll'MIl- others,
wounded by flu- tire of
i.imin-i huh--,
lieloiv.
, TUr
survivor snrrender.
. ..,1,i,..i, ......
- . T - B ,,.r , " a'ded he
, .-...,... .i ,1,,.. . t,.H-
,r.i,,.1,i,i f ...... ,1,,,
- r;n,b,ed f,, ..... settling Zeppelin
' " ,.. . . .,. ,i
' l" irawi-i, ..... ...n.,,.,.-,,
IIU''' . Muesiloned the Ceriums
' iiie alrcralt weie latge than thoe which
;;;ikH';rV ,),.. tweiity-o.ie previous
, , . .,,ciumi
stmyed since the beginning of the war.
t'nolllci.il li-ifotts have placed Hi,' mi,,,,
her much higher.
BARRED FROM SHIP BY SKIRTS.
Molher .lul .MUe l.loeri I
Cliaiier to See Mm.
.iusl a the America,, II,,.,' Hi. I.mils
was pulling out or her dock y.slcrday
afternoon for her tuyage to Liv cipool, a
win. was Mrs. J. II. Silmi-son. a Hist
cabin pimsenger on the liuer, was unable
lo make Hie trip. It vuis bet- only
rh slice to see her son, who ie ou furlough
In Lonilon from the Flinch tri-nchih, f, -
by the time the next shtv aiiivis lie will
have tmue hack to tho fioni Mis Slum.
son hud cir-inged liassagc, hill then, was
some Hoilble about getting a passpoit at
would hav e been iicrniittul to boaul the
ship lu the haibor There Is a rule of
the line. However, iiuopicii mi- suei) H
sake, that prohibits any. Human ftiiui
boivrdlng one of Its ships from a tuc,
SUSSEX TORPEDOED,
SURVIVOR INSISTS
F.dward .Miir.sliiill Says Unman
Submarine Surely Sunk
Clinnnel Idner.
SAW M KTA h FKAU.MKNTS,
Also Declares Tlial Jtyscne.
Vessel Carryin-r Victims
Was Attacked.
it i:iwaiii M.nsii iji.
Si'tnit tahlr Hetp'itrL to Tub Mv I
l.oshoN-. April I -Tho Sussex .c4
toipedoril by ;t r.ermau juhiiiarlne, the
(ivrmin gcnernifniilul statements to the
cnutr.uy notw Ithstandiug.
I was ti jiasnger on the Sussex and
have been glen rather unusual facilities
for getting Information. I am In a po-
Hltlon to Mnte posltlvsly that lilocci of
t, torpnlo whleli did the ghastly work
n cr(, blown into n wieled boat of the
Sussev and hase been found.
line Is In '
the hands of the Krench Oo-ernment.
Viothcr Is In Him possession of the Itrlt-
- notlP
IvV Ailmlrattv. As a matter of fact, I
lw i;ittr bit before I left the Sus-
.,, ,, rr B,M, .ilwin, I aid not
mention vimimstances in my eatller
de-patch to Tub Sr. v.
high oltlclal .iilthorlt.v. that while the
torpedo bo.it destroyer which 'acted ns
a resell.' -hip was r.troing us to Hover
it was llred at twtce by -ubinannes. It
would be dllllcillt to imagine a pin.
ceduie more entiiely hearllc. The
llttl" craft. a the Hermans doubtless
knew, had taken off the seriously
wounded, whom it had been dllllcult to
transfer t" th- Trench tug, which al
ready bad borne uwav some survivor
To" li:ie sunk her as she sped shore-
ward, unite obvlotnJy intent on lor hu
' . .is T , ..1.1. A ... i
inane mission, woum oe an m i 'iun' '. i
inhuman as would another shot tired j
Into the Iileening nun oi un- hhiov-ui i out lis lo ill. actual wnuriMvuuia ix..-ii-little
Susex bei-ielf. and ibslgiied for I tored by M. C. S )
., ........... .1..... , h.. ri, r, llAr SUIlITti.
..tlu-, ,.A.u Cllll.lll'. ll IIJI' l. " " - ' "
"""J'"
The imnreslon made on Amer'a-ana in
Kurnpe iy this Incredible assault on n
lofonepb'ss pnswngrr snip actually ami
. .." ,, . - .,,.i,ii
... '..'a . ,i.7n , , oti -
""- " ; ' ; " "-, " "V.
"f war has been .'"found, i ...t weok
tlicrn weif many iioutnil Atnno.u. in
London. To-day It would 1-e hard to
filHl Olie.
-n,,. Sussex ,p.-o,l
.,e ,nif ii, ..ii'-
,T,;.. whs .,. revolting a the destruc-
tion or tne i.uMiani,i. n siirreu an .vniei
lean 1 know hi'ivjlo u heat of indlgiiii-
tfon tln v nave noi'ieti "line un- ih-khi
nlng of the vvar .M monism iicmings
Hotel have Im-n tin- sceno of several
i... ii..., t.Ki i,i...tltii Nlbt befrue fast
then- w.i In ought me a ropy of an em-
phatic telegram wnicn was seni io i i.-s.
blent Wilson bv surviving American pa
ist tigers.
It ,s true that no American
dead
,-..Mi,it nf ti. inr lnlm.-. Inn th s.
i( matter of fact, would add to the
strength of an Annricin protei-t. Accord-
ing to tin- Iheorj of uost expel ts in
international law. li.ul one nf u been
slaughteied an Miicncah itotest wvMild
have been a gnu i tunetital nisissil.v,
enrnived by ihiIIHciI cxlgi-nci.-s Now
that no American Is dead, a firm and
a. ..it.-, i.toiest would L-enerallv lie re-
i cal-iUd by file UOIl-l.UIOpcan VVOlill a
; .merb-.inlsm wbi- h " won Hie admlra-
jioii of the world when it fieed Cuba.
1 and Wllld 'IO 'linre in. in .iiiiiiiiik I ..in
think of to rcetoie A iier'n a s tottering
ptestlge in I'urnpe liiiiili-ntall.v, It
would make travelling Muericans like
invself feil m i'c i.iinfort il.b' in tin- pu.
session III llien i iwc,"., ..-
(Scot go 11 Crocker
Jr.. is betler, hut
has lint recanted
ins. ion' tivss ibler
H. Peiillehl Is doing wen. .losnua i.
1 i,i,iii ii., iitiirued to Loudon, nrac-
, J,.Huj ,,. covered, ltep.u ts i.gardlng the
i (.(,ndltloti of P-of. .1. M.uk li.iMw In and
1 w I f- and daughter an- favorable
, Tlien- haw been several deaths among
' tmssei iters of other nationalities', and
1 be fatalities of the Mlssex win ne inr
higher tli.sit 1 estimated in my first de.
infill. The cpitnlhlv will lie mole than
a hirtidied
, ni-'llA HI) MAhhS lihl Oh I .
i -
1 intnriiis
it ...i.i. II. .ell,, ill.,
clnii.is Ktitiuletlue of Stie,
Wvsi.imiTon, April 1.--Tlie State De
paitmeut mule public to-da.v the purport
of the reply which the Herman Foreign
lift le lias made in Ambassador Her
aid' iiliest tor Information .onceiii
Ing the explosion of tm- channel liner
Sussex.
The replv 's 'ii I be effe. t tint the
tleiui.ui Hnveininent kiioiv s nothing
.ibnllt tin- i.lllse of the explosion ,n
submaiitie cnniliandei' has uporli'd hav.
Int attacked tin' Sii-se.x and the only
lnfoi inatinn wliliii Hi t man Foielgn
i utltc
Otlice ottleial s.iN they have ciSncrrnlng
case, or the i.ises of lie alleged
ks on the llngllshin.in and tho
Manchester i.uKiieei. vv.-ieic xmeiicin
lives were plated 1.1 Jeop.iids. comes
front leport In the (.erniaii pies.
Ill Ill.Hill'K 1' r -'"u" 1 .'!
...-.:!.!. ii- Orrnril llu CSrriua ti Kon-iu'ii
UlTIro has, nf nun .!, - plainer, tli.it
.,i.n,(ia an. s.itlitii:it'iii cnmiiLimli-r ..
n, ,,, nr the cases mentioned the
facts cont 'lined In the report will be
coniniunl.M.ed l" Hie Fn.ted States Hoc
fnimcm
I ... .......... ,.,...
iporiH to winch
Dim tiltin.it
that a Itrltlsh
Some of
nsseit that i
staleinents tiotu passengers anil other
evidence eleirly show till. The evidence
I piesenled lo the Flilteil Slates. Inillc.it- I
i ing that a submarine was responsible.
' ,as apparcntl) made no impression III,
I lletlln.
1 Hairing tiitd.v .niinissiou n Hiiiuanv
Dial one of her submarine commanders
, has rcpnilco torpedoing the Sussex, the
in the cln uinst.inccs, that either the
Heriiiau sui.iiiniiiie i otnuianuer or
(Jiiittan Hoici iitiii-ul was ciiiilc.i1.iu
fun fbi iied on 'ft Jul 1'itgc.
Hie
llin
VILLA LEFT SIXTY DEAD;
DODD WITH 2,500 PURSUES;
7 FOREIGNERS MURDERED
S. Soldiers Combing the
District on n 75 Milo
Front. ,
SIX AMERICAN COLUMNS
ON TKAILOF JIAIDEHS
Worl Conirs From Field
ll'iid(Hartvrs of Vig
orous Chase.
H (.KIIIKii; II. l.r.MKN I S.
tflil Cormionilfnl of Tnr Sin
I'iklo lli:Anqi'.MtTKiis op nir. Amewcan
Amir at Namiulipa, Mexico, by wireless
to Columbus, X. M., April 1 A
search of the field after Col. Dodd'i
elnso
light
with Vllllstas at San Uctonlmo on
Weilmxlay found sixty dead. No repirt
as to wounded. Col. IHxId had four men
wounded.
The American soldictnate now operat
who has under him a squadron of the
Tenth Cavalry. Col. llrown has another
sipudron of the Tenth, Major llvans and
Col. Krwiti have each a suuadron of tho
Seventh Cavalry.
It was Krwin's sU.idroll which en-
gaged Villa at San Ueronlmo and routca
him. Other commands irre Major Tonip
klnv with two tioops each from the
Tenth and Thitteenth, Major Undsley's
suuadron. Thirteenth, and Major llowzn
, with a picked wpiadton of the Seventh,
total of Z.jUU men.
....... . ..... 1
v ni s rt-iiir.iiiis .ue oe.oj; ,;iiu--i,
with vigor. No rcfiort has been sent
Now that It Is established that I'ancho
Villa was wounded .Sunday In his bat
tle with the Carranzlstas preceding his
tuptuie of Uuenero, American army
officers lielleve that It will lie but a few
days before his hiding place 1 ferreted
out and he Is either captured or killed.
Acroplaneo are keeping the army so
ceaselessly Informed as to tlie where
abouts of the flying remnants of Villa's
beaten band that they are given no
oportunlty to lest themselves or their
badlj fed mounts. The Vllllstas. broken
Into small bands, have been unable to
hid or to make softies becauno of the
activities, of the American aeioplanes.
Olllceis and men are being glvci, a
taste of what European soldiers in the
trenches have to siifTer fiom the weather.
For the past forty-eight hours rain and
sleet, blown by a strong, cold wind,
have made life In camp aii thing but a
Joke. It was a lelief from the dust of
th lust ten days, but uncomfortable
neveitbiies.. The surrounding mouii
I. litis lire COV ered with snow and the
weather Is giving the aviators who are i
patrolling the l!ui of communication
added haidshlps.
Crossing of th- famous i ins oiaie i as
.. iiai-ticularls ai'dtiou. Tlie army con
sldeie Col. Doibl's ex.lolt 111 unrounding
nml battllrg with the Vll'.a bandits on
W.dnesday near Hunreto a remarkable
bit nf woik that adds greatly to the
lain ls of the cavalry
The entire command, r-;ardles. of the
branch of the service to which all.tcneu.
ihecrui th- teeetpt of news to-day that
Hie l-l.eill.-l.i nan nui.-i'i. .
l.mor.s be sent to i nl. Doiiu nlii ins men.
Col. Dodd and his cavairnien irmue
1 r......... i ..ell til l v.llv fillies over tOllcil
country tiiseventeen hours and then fought
live hours befoie the bandit begin to
retreat Into the mountains. They fol
lowed until Ha- Vllllstas bioke up Into
small bands and scattered In all dliic-
'tloiis. PuisUlt Is still being i.ept ill", ar-
iiiulliig tn InfortiMtion ic-cuted ttoin itie
i tmnt by ladlograui to-da.v.
The exfilolt of the .avalry .n defeat
ing Villa has had a chierirtt itt-ct upon
the men and otil.'.-ts of tills camp, pal
in ul.irlv upon th- older campaigners,
who nie telling talen of the Seventh
Cavalty's prowess with especial Mfei
en.e to" the Ir-ioic action of the suuadron
which fnKht to death with Custer at
Little Itlg Haiti Tin- Seventh ng.llli
pl.ived n coii"liictlous 41.11 1 In the Indian
wars of the West and it paiticlpated III
',1H battle of Wounded Knee
i .Mnibitiir h.i been tecrlved bete to
irniiflrni lepoits on the border t. .-night
f tii,. rapture of villa at .Minaca, souui
i i,i' Huerreio. 1 he report mat inn
Americans were killed by Villi. tas at
Mlimiu. sent Item l.l rase, is u.n con
firmed here.
HOUSE PUTS "K"' IN MERRIMAC.
sirnng Move TnUcii for Pi-tnreip
leas In Hni stnic.
WasiuvuTiiN, April I. -The llniise of
Itipieseiitatlves paused long enough 111
the consideration of the ilvei i.i. 1 bar
bur lilll to-day to decide .he long s in I
Ing New- Ilngland controversy whether
the 1 liver Mittliiuii should hive a pii il
"K" or not
In tlm bill thi- wold appeals without
the "k" alid Itepri'seutattve Itogets of
Massachusetts said be was tired ot see
ing Hie Html conson4rfil dropped after the
National Heogiaphlc Hoard hud decided
thai the appendage was pinpei
Itepresentative Sims said he would
have mi objection If it were a pieparc'l
ness mallei, and llepres.'iitatlve Mann
suggested Iha. the final "k" might make
Hie river mote illlllcull to captllie The
question was put to it viva voce vote, and
Hepieseulatlve Nick Longwotth shouted
"No" as loudly as the issue remained In
doubt Tbeieupon a rising vote was de
mantled and the House lecorded Itself
in favor of the Dual "l ' bj a vie of
(!. lo o. even Mr Long'vorth changin,
his uilfld about it
SHAUGHNESSY LOSES S0!i
t it it S l I it In I ntinilliiii lit-glim-ill Is
Willed In elloii,
Mo.sriiKvi. pfll I - C.i pi. I'red Shaugli-
nessv ot ine ruxuei i i.i giuieni, ine
second sou of ll.iron Slinuglitiessy, w.i
killed III a ilon wlirtc llgliting with his
regiment at the f ont )isen,iv The
news was con. c,i cd to the patents of
C.ipt. Sll. Highness) llnoiisn a i.ihlec
celved trnin Col Han-olgnc to-dii.e No
details wf ie g.Vd-
C.i, it. Vv J. Miaiigh.icss.i. cldisi 'on of
Loid Sliaiighnessi'. enllsltil for ovei
aeas serilie with Hie ir.'tli llaltali.iu of
Canadian Infantry on March II.
RUMOR OF CAPTURE
OF VILLA UNCONFIRMED-
A telegram front Chlliualiun city
lo CoiihiiI (iarcla at VA Vum .tinted
that thcro whs u report thcro that
Villa had been captured by Cot.
Uodil at Mlnaca, south of GiicrTero,
In which direction tho Vllllstas lied
after defeat by tho American'!.
tiania wan nn.ililo In Ket con
drum Hon or morn details: about tho
capture.
lien. FuiiMun s,altl that no word
had come from (Jen. 1'orshlng that
Villa who a prisoner,
Correspondent nt tho front made
no mention of mich n report.
Washington is hoping that It It
Into and urmy otllcrrs nay It Is pos
sible, an Col. Dodd and Ids men
wero well provisioned to emit lime
the chn.se find that it Is not likely
that ho would give the Kind any
chnnco lo rest.
Confirmatory rrpoit.s came from
the South that Vllllstiia killed n-v-rral
Americans In Mlnaca, .showing
that ho was In the district where the
rumot.s say ho wii.m captured.
VILLA SHOT OFF HIS
HORSE IN GUERRERO
After
tas.
.Massacre of Cnmini.
Cliicf Faces Dodd and
Oets a Surprise.
BOUXK A WAV IIV INDIAN'S
Ki, I'vso, Tev., April 1 I'uither de
tails of the battle belwetll Col. Mild'
squadron and Villa and of the latter'
victory over Col, Havazixs at Huerrero
were received to-day b Hen Havim, In
command nt Juarez.
Hen. n.ivira'x despatches came fiom
Cleii. Luis Gutierrez, commandant o'
the Cirranza, gurrisun at Chihuahua
city, who In turn received the Informa
tion direct from Col. Havazos himself.
After his escape, fiom Huetrem Col
Havazos made his way iiorthwnid with
a handful of follower", all that were
left from the slaughter at Huerrero,
white Villa killed 172 men and struck
the Mexico .Vol thwestern Uallvvay at
Sau Isldro. It was from this point
Col. Havazos la believed to have flashed
his message to Hen. HutlerreZ.
Vilhi, according to Col, Uavazos n
poll, was shot out of his saddle In the
streets of Huerrero. The bullet crushed
hi light knee utid Hie fall severely lli
Juied his right hip He was made In
sensible and for a tune bis follow ci
thought him dead
Officer nt it lliiiuf.
M) first r poll that Villa smpused
iiueri.io se.-nis to have been corievt
.Hen. Havira said. "Col. Havazos and
, ins olllcers, I am told, were at a dance.
Villa Indian stole in tip'.n the town on
hands and knees. Just a they did at
Columbus. Sentries were knifed before
th.y had time to give alarm. With the
path rle.-tt.-d Villa anil his men dashed
(Into town on horseback, with bridles
, between their teeth and a revolver in
citiiur hand,
"Villa vva in
the central nl.tza before
tin- garrison was aroiiseil. I'nl. i i
vazos leapt d through a window- in the
midst of a dance und made his wuv
to the cuarlti, where he mustered his
troops for battle. He had not more
than fifty men to pit against Vill i's
r.0. He fought bravely. 111. troops
barricaded the streets and shot fiom tlic
tops of the adobe houses.
"Villa, I am informed, vv i.s s.tt ng
on his horse tn the .square directing Un
tight, when a bullet struck him in the
right knee. Ill- horse reared and Villa
was pitched headlong to the earth. Villa
was unconscious when the members of
ills p.-rsotril iscoit. believing lilm dead,
picked him up und cairn d him into a
private n suli-ni . .
"The lighting continue. I in the streets
for sevii.il hums before Col Havazos
finally was driven tinm the shelter of
his last ban ii ad. and lied to Hm hills.
Mosf of Ills followers were either killed
or captiind I a.u inform., I that ten
wen- excelled next mottling.
"I reg.Ftl fnl. i l.tvizos's escape as a
remalkable fea" If lie had been lap
tuttd death i.Tiainlv would have been
Ins pot lion
Hill Ileitis of lloilil.
I ...i told Villa ictiiaiiied in bed in I the Vbl.sia liandll had ranbd the pin,
Oq. tr. in until i'tiesdaj afternoon. Then, and kiini all the forelgneis but himself
It is said, lie got wind that all tneii- He asn iipoiieil that foieiguir had
.an lolunin ot ipol men w.i heading hi ,
wa.v ftoin the lountry about T uiosaiinc
Villi al nine i V.l.'ll it.i'.l llin in r. I a ,d
ill.. i iii. il nnrtliu.il. I lo g,- i. ml. II.
I, ..I I1..II ,lonl,ll,.su I I '... V . . I
. ,.rk, ,, Doid' 1 ! i c befoie I
r.eiiforct nieuts ii.ul.l be luslicd fonvard
bv Hen. Pershing Villi was te.nl) for,
the battle tli.it followed and was i ouil-
dent of vii tnl v
"Tlie dash and tigh- .g qu.ilit.es of
Col Dndd's soliliets must have asloti
istinl Villa Dcspit, the la t that the
Ameiicnii olliiial tcpoils i. -l.iii- Villa
was not pl.-sen. Ill file ligh.ii.g leu,
Hutieir. z Informs me that V.lla wa In
a ten. on a lull ovei looking 1 encamp,
men! of hi tioops whe-i Co! D nld ,ode
in on ho it
VILLA'S LEG AMPUTATED.
(icn. (Ibrcgoii llenrs He XV n llper
nteil (lit lo snte Ills I. He,
I iji riti.Tvitn. .vi, xn ii. vp.ii t
O'll i
i .'at c troll. Minislei ol W.u, lia id eiv
a ilespalili in. m the it i ii t , it-1 1 1 1 presi
'dent of the town nf Teutosaiilic. lilt.
Iiu lima, lliat Villa l.a h;t I lit' leg
anipiltateil
I Sn tl-)olls was Hie wound illllli ted tn
I the laid at ilucii'cio ilia: th" operat, on
1 W.I tlCi'i'Ssal)- to save !is 1 fc
Host tie
I onkllou's
tin ii il eil
l.l'ltllllsoil
I Hi v, N Y. Vpnl 1 liclat vi l.rie ' iiii'isu.il a. liv ill Ii .III in - tin.
re.cli'cd lien.. ..-.I.i i tint Walter i i si.ldii-is lo-Ui' l'"l a ha r. .son rinbol'
i i.il.nia u. a gi-anil-oi. of llosio.i t'luii,. -letu in 1'i.iiw
1 ii", whn is ii Lieutenant in the fold
site. mi lllllilill. Ii." I lie I Hiillllllcil al
the luillt III Fill". He Was tiuil. In
Ii plci c of sbi-.ipnel I. lent Unl, nan o
b-tcd la -t v ... I in tlie ariii.il.il inotc
seivne. Ilcw.it llall.sl'i i'ri.1 to tia f i I I-
st renin Hnards Lieut t lakmaii's p,,f.
ents lenile lu New York city
Five Americans Amonjr (lie
Slain in Uaid on
Minaca.
VILLISTAS OX AVAV
TO CHIllFAin'A CITY
Bandits l!aid Vntnsi .Mine.
I'rojierty and llob Paj -master.
CHIKFTAIX'S CAPTFIJF
TS limOU ON J50RDKR
No Confirmation JJeeeivcd
From Fershiiifr or Car
ranza Leaders.
Ki. Paso, Tex., Afrit L Flvn Ameri
cans, an Englishman and a Herman wera
killed by Villa's raldeis lu tho toivna
of Huerreio imd Mln-.ica. Detalla
of the killing which arrived lids eve
ning did not show- whether or not Villa
himself was with the band that did
the killing at Mluaca.
.Advices from Chihuahua city to
night say that bandits raided tho-properly
nf the 1'otosl Mining Company
fcever.il miles west of that city to-day.
robbing the paymaster of all company
funds. It was not known If any Amer
icans were killed In tho raid. The ban
dits ate supposed to he tho udvance
Ml.ird of Villa's band defeated at C.uer
lero by American soldiers.
He-ports were current tier o Una after
noon that Pnncho Villa had been cap
tured by the I'nlteil States troopi at
Minaca. Miuth of Guerrero, whete the
Amrrlc.ni forces defeated rind dlg
pcrseil hi hind on Wednesday, hut ths
report lacked confirmation to-night.
Consul Onrc!.i said this nftcrnoon that
l,e had leceivcd a telegram from Chl
l.u.i'iii.t city ri'iiorHng a rumor there
of the aituie of Villa. He wind for
further detail.
.1. II. Locke, who esiape-1 the fate of
tlie other forelgneis in Minaca win n the
Villist.iv did the tnurd.'tl.'ig, made h's
way to Cuihiiiii.ichic to-day, and con
II titled the repoit received estcrday
that the Villit,is bad p,,t four for
eigners to .le-.i'li at Minaca. The Ameri
cans lllllldeled w.ie In, A. I'. Still, Le
Ltndsley, Fiank Woods. Ife,, Snell .uid
Henry A. Main! The . i. riiian n- HeruiRn
Illatikenlietg arid the Lngllsiitnati U
Donald MiHrtgor, alias 111 iiu-
Llndslt-y was a hotel and sto.c keeper
of Tnno'achiu. ho had gone Into
Mluaca oi Htieriem for snfetj ) 0f
the victim were men of long resnictr.
111 Mexno nnd tlie'r nialivi-H m tlie
I'nitctl States are not kuo.in. Di- Still
was married t.i a M, xt. an woman
Hi-iiiv A -kland was a i.ntn, r of J. II
Piggs, a distiller ui .In. ire, and had
ju-t e, nt from h.K ram Ii iii-.i-- .Min.ic-.i
."illll lic.l.l of sl'tfp tn be slitppcd i.i the
Fluted St ite.- The sheep ,tr, ,,o- in
I" ns in Juarez, and i'.cgs w.i l -nklnsx
foi Ack'and In ariive to-.l.i.v
I was iot n, nle plain Just wliere the
ditTcient ni. n weie killed. However, I
I bell, veil that two of them met thei
d.-atli oji Sunday at (lucrum, when VUn
attacked and cnitute.i tlm plu.c from
Hu- ( .irninz:.ta and is s,, , tiave
exeiuttd all plisnnels. "I isl" Is It
self an lsn;.it,.l mining town ami th.
d. tail. whlih the o!l. I. il of the vari
ous Ann rn an mining , oiup.it. Ies in Fl
Pasii wire .ilil.- to k" t from there to-dny
did not say vvhcie the il.fl.renl ve'tlm.-t
lived
The ilrspttiitp. s.inl that I'u-ihulr.i
lie is quel al. d thru Vilh-tas .ne !..
in that vi. inliy so far ns known. I.'s'i.'
did not give any of tho ita.l of t'n
I liiul mi .Minaca. ini'iely tepnrting th:,'
In .11 killed pi liuerreto. Hi gave tlm
li.-t of tlie foreign, t s known to be ddid
.1. Hi. two ,l,ii'ii and I bcllcviil tn Imie
headed for .'hlhuahua citv in an if!. . .
tn l e ,cl tile border.
Willie ii'cssage.. to. day said .-veri Hi i.g
was quici at "" u-i.' Hie Ainericiin oil
''mis of mini - opii.it.ng In that sotnm
fe.il tin ib'stl tnl loll of their proper!'.. '
if Villa ii.-il- Hi. il Inwn. Tin v ha"
lie nil ti o tlia, be niti mis ,,, l.i t'i,
native wnikiiieii for doit .mine. (
with A'liene.in . . n i.-eriiJ It . ould h"i
be lean. id if urn Ana in an properlv ii
the vlciti'.tv nf .Vlmat i bad in en dam
aged bv the , Ib-ias ,n v . ' t n-.i,
llltllll l.l lie Xclil "I list."
III. II. A olll, ,.li Hi-IP XV 1 1 1 1 . 1 1 1 new- I"
Ii gill nt the vi liei i-altol,! . t. ill. i. b '
they ilul not lull nli l- it imptnbalile tit..
seme -if Ins tin n ni.glit .e in tin- vn In,.)
nf "I'll-1.'
Denial w .. . giviii t. ,lii. .ic to tint
rumor- of th'fo i.,ii-i ,n 1 1 ,.- I'niiaiiz.i
Hil,s m i-hiuu.iini.i aie I m..ii! iienlnl
, . l ill
ilso in. nle 1 1n. ' .'il Ciiiio mid hit
coiiiuii.ud of Cat tin r -in j wrrn tint
ftoiifi ii hn ii fnl I. mid . tnetlcatv
1'iif.cs foticiit W.-ilni'.l.i u. .'sad tit!
Villa .
Ilninni.- io-i .-!' '. bad it t: it (Jen.
Litis Hiitiet'.e, i.'iiui unl' i of the Car
I' IIIZ.I to i es 'II I Mi l till, ill ll i . 1 1 , Ii , unfi
lled Hen liuvir.i in Jlii'. 'unt ie I'cite.l
nn all n ' "' I He Si H .t t . ..in Villa.
1 mil .l.-M'd Ml llioli- Ilie.. i , ' i . (iivl ,c
'la i.ot -ilil ill) III. ops h I l'.ie VVII.
- The iniint H. ' Hut
I
t Will altn'i. tin 'it'
if fiii
',. Is ll'lo i "'0' 1 "i-i'iul
. I d.u o Ii- "' p ni'li '
I- r- i
i ! , t i
t nl ,i pni
Chihuahua i i
ftxaidlrse ol oflic.t!
'i1
-Jt''t"1
s.'CI
