Ml ESTATE FOR SALE, TO
LET, EXCHANGE OR WANTED.
filiations, Help Wanted and Olher
Wants, Sec Section Seven
?Oth YEAR
VOl.t >110 till
M MIIIIH 02
RICHMOND, VA., SUNDAY
ALL SORTS OF ADS FOR
ALL SORTS OF PEOPLE
See Times-Dispatch Want Pages for a
Service of Unequalled Value
CLOUDY
DRAW CLOSER TO
)y Massed Attacks Sccurc
Fooling in Village
of Vaux.
SPIRITED FIGHTING
AT CLOSE QUARTERS
Successful Attempt to Penetrate
French Lines Preceded by
Fierce Assaults.
iii:t m:i> nv rruT.M.v 01 inn-:
l'??nio*t Iti-iiru f'l on \tis| rn-ltalian
I'roiii After fVrloil ??f Itml
Weill !?*???.
i . ? ;ifc hi :?'111;t 11 v ' ?' ? -iir 'T:
?n I'irflu!., diawlnir th'it !lt ? s > little
?U.-. , ???;?>. .s* of til" f' ? * :-<?? ??. w her e.
>v ina.tMO'l attacks from two <11 rob lions;
hf 1 <? un-'l :? f jntJl:-^ It the Vil
.?[_??? o' Vaux
"I" r ? ? - f 111 at t'rl ? ? t C PCI ? 11 .it o
'.t .? v. ? pi > ??? I;i ';or?l
?iv.- to I' I y .ia as-'.. -It that w ??
. .! by ? I.. I'f. ? irtafn of fire
1: ? f.< 11 f ! wa s ;>: t iU'd
i ' . t quarters before the
? , { I . ? t ?' -s f'!i.il|> iiuri'f? ? 1 ? i
!?!< - : i* par* way Into ts?\illajjr?:.
The Gorman Infantry has not inovctl
from. t> Irrti' li'.'s v. ? -: of the M??u:ii'
sin, e th< r;i)i",iif i.{ ;.IaJasi? -onrt vil
la c> ' " ." ? <! ?? >-tly I'.- 11 ?? unsuc
? f ?? i -!? ? ' t).. I"i? ' - h positions
rn>rt 1 '.i t. ?.f J Nd Z'.' . in the rcrion
f.r l>. i?l Ma;, 1IU! Th?; artillery.
hoWe\er. t IV ?* tl the Mtlall
court ?'-f < ? . ii'l t'i tl cr attempts by
the <;<?! ti :? ?? !?> c? 'it. *: K* their drive
on t!i" 1 *r? ? 11- I, ;t ft flank arc considered
probaido to oi: iir without much delay.
OM.V IM l lir.NT \ l.l< V
?io rii.iriiM. wiiii i \i:itni\
"I : ' ? :n.i! ?>!!?? >.?! statement ref?*r?
? . Incidentally to the fitihtinc about
Verdm . mentioning only artillery duels
11?? ? r?? anil in the Arpotino, w*th other
??MI\ It;. ??> tl. i. u' uui r. "n the Alsne
fr<>ni .'.,"1 further north on the lines.
\ T'? r it ;-li Ii iimI-itcv.kIc attack near
St I:'i? ?. wh* i ? ?? 'ii-riiians ref'ently
!? -t . Ki"tiii<l. was repulsed.
The aviators of 1 ? ? 111 sides ?.>i the
Fi .i n-'o-Hel{f >a n f* ! :i .\i 1 ? < n busy.
f'i,itr French I* 't f> U victim* to
? at: brittle .i f - ift va : lc?u s en
\fu-r i : ? I <1.1 r bad went h'jr, f'^bl
; ?? ! ? II r. IIIM'I on the Auptro
t ?"?.. f- t.* l-'i the ltt( ;t ; art. how
ever i),<> activities arc corflncd to
ait cnu r:i<Til; . and such infan
try she-- as ' a\? occurred have not
refilled in fl.a!>l.*es ...f pii.sitior.
n.rlin s'ltnniari .-.e- t?i? rocent Itus
s a> offensive, hi w apparently at a
r>* and -till, as barren of results for Kir.
????ror Nii^nt' i . Whllfi tlie 11f
sian ? a:-u .Ities arn cstit rated by tbo
'i'rr a'i h? .adi)ii.irte: s staff t'> have
b.-er. I- 1 '.I r,0A. More than .">00,000
men wero chgnseil 071 the Russian side,
according t<< l.terlln, and the oxpehdi
|ii!' o' ft' ?,?:>' ni: |,v tie alt H i ti ?
f.r. r, I- lie...I a red to l.,i v.. been >1 mi
linp:' ? eii.!'. ted ? ?? for the fe ti-m
I. rit M \ \ \ I I M li I >
I (llll'l.l'.'l l.l.l ? IICI K I'll
1' MI IS. Vp- ii 1. Tito Cfi-n-.tis .-on
tn:?i. I r 11 e 11- 1 .tei se bomi>ardinetit of
the 1 ?' r e 1 . ? 11 po-.itions ' ?? t v. ? ? ? ? 11 Avo-'oiirt
i*ri'l M t la i.eou. : to-dav. A h* ivy iiotn
bar-lnient al- > w:i < carried out I?? the
eri>t of the . m ? ? ? Thi. war- fdb'-.ved
ly a ?Jertnan atla.I; betwe.-n l.'ouati
irinnt at d \'.iu\. whi. h. aee.n tiiitir to the
eoniuiutiientiori ?,f 11..? |-*reii -h War
? ?tli? ? ?, was iotnpb-t. 1\ 'lie k?ai Th?
sta : ? merit readn;
in HcIkIiiih. our art ilb r% bombarded
t j. . ner>i\ . intoiiinei'ts at I .a niicinarek,
northea t of V pre
"III Hm- Arnoiitic. f ?!' )>atterie.s woe
nen\e airainr-t the ??ei'inau or^nniza
i north l.a Hara/.ve and I.a J'iilo
Mori, and at;aiti?t tb< enemy eamp.s in
t .. iiorih'.rn j-art nf the ?"h<-ppy wood.
? \\*? st of the M- use. :lie lionibar<l
;:i. ? : ha been intense a. ainst our p,i<i
iimi.'. In I wee li \ \ 11, ???ti ft nnd Malaii
eouri.
"To the i.ir-' of Hi, Men (?. a .pllle
\iolerit oni a iilme|,t w a - followed 111
tl;. .-oiii; ? of i In- afternoon by a iler
nijiti attack on Hie ravine between
i.i'ontiiuied on l-'ouiicenth ra^e.)
MAIN STREET SITE
FAVORED BYT. P. A.
Downtown Location for Union
Station Is Choice of Trav
eling Men.
VOTE IS NEARLY UNANIMOUS
Post A. at Annual Meeting
Elects B. H. Randolph
as President.
A union station at Fifteenth and
Main Streets was Indorsed In a resolu
tion adopt''1 last night at the annual
meeting of L'ost A, Travelers' Protec
tive Association. a committee will b<;
appointed t<-? wait on the railroad of
fl ials interested. I'uttens will he dis
tributed to tho tnember? with the
slou'.in, "A Union Station at Fifteenth
itiil M i in Streets."
The vote taken on th? resolutions,
?vhii li were first brought to the atten
tion of the orcanliatl- n by State J'resi
? lent George W. Rogers, and the actual
resolution offered by Krnest W. Hun
ter was almost unanimous.
Mr. Rogers sui'l.
"Gei. t lenien, one of the most vital
matters that is before the citizens of
Richmond at present is the question
of the location of a union station. In
June. 1513. the post wont on record
a favoiii.cr the Main Street sl'e, and T
-?in <eH no leu.son wliy this organiza
tion .should re-verse Itself on this vote
now We thouM hrintr every inlluence
within our powers for the selection of
the site at Fifteenth and Main Streets.
"You will work a hardship on the
greater portion of the people of Rich
mond if you allow the railroads to put
the station at Roseneath Road and
Proad Street. It would he a calamity
if wo sat idly hy and watched the
station ^o up at Roseneatli Road. Any
city that will how to the railroads suf
fers as a result, Pook at Pynchburg
and Alexandria with stations in the
counti y.
MAIN ??VH!:F.T A I'I'llOA CI I
I'ltuMii \( i:n ni:sni vhi.i:
j hi" talk of the city growing west
ward i-, tine hut let inc tell you that
no '1.e t'lotn will, live to see
Roeeneath Road and Broad Street in
the heart of the city. I would like to
set thi>- c:t> grow and extend its
boundaries as far Philadelphia, and
then we i'oiId have Paltimore as a
suburb
l uJ cii i < i v;t\ that th" approach
to M tin Strc.t Station Is desirable. The
railroads live otf of 115, and we d<. not
livo off the railroads The railroads
owe their cxi-tenr#. to the manufac
turers and the Jobbers We have no
law at present to compel the railroads
to put their station where we want it,
but then we may have Tb* State
Corporation Commission can compel the
roads to build stations where public
travel warrants it. When wo elect a
Corporation Commission by the people,
then we ^l\*e the commission
power to put tins station where the
people want It
"I, therefore. recommend that we eo
on record as favoring the site at Fif
teenth and Main Streets, and that u e
adopt resolutions to that effect."
S. .r Allen replied t<> this, and said
that. he understood from 111 ? - news
papers that the Chamber of Commerce,
after cnr?t"ul consideration, \*as in
t.ivir ot tht> West Proad Street site;
t'lat ?! : s decision had been arrive*! at
iftei threshing the matter out, and
being assured l.\ thr Atlantic Coast
I.m >? atid the Richmond, Fredericks
burg and Potomac ?a 11 roads that the
Main Street plan was impracticable.
Me cautioned the members front voting
until thev bad considered the matter
'?arefullv, as the jobbers and the tnami
lacttircrs of the ?? it>? are in the ma
jority in the chamber's membership.
mi.\Ni> 1:\i?i. \ 1 vs now
? IIAMIIKU TOOK ACTION*
S. I Ityland, the retiring president,
who explained that he was also a mem
ber of the committee of the Chamber
of Commerce that considered the sta
tion question, said that lie "fought and
bled and died for the Main Street site,
but the chamber was compelled to
recede after a talk with Henry Walters,
chairman of the board of the Atlantic
Coast Pine." II.; stated further that
the chamber accepted the Proad Street
site at the Uelt Pine as the next best
thine. The railroad company had sug
gested the lIcrinitnK'i Club as the site
for the station, but the chamber con
sidered the Pelt l.ine better, because
(Continued on Sixth Page")
I
Buy-right Hints for
the I hrifty Housewife
The las! word in prices is
found < the first thing in the
morning in the advertising
pages of The Times-Dispatch.
Prices are the lowest that
are quoted in the paper that
goes to press in the early
morning hours. Why put new
silver in your hair trying to
.. remember prices, over night,
> when it is sometimes the case
they are changed in your favor
in the morning's paper.
Last Word in.Prices
Quoted Daily in the T.-D
Particularly is this true at
this time, when fickle markets
change on prevailing provoea
t ions.
This is a point in economy
well worth your consideration;
and a new challenge for care
ful comparisons.
It e a ding the advertising
news in The Times-Dispatch is
reading advertising at its host.
.VOTE?The Tinien-Dlnpntch guiiriiiitcm n marked unTinff on frery pa retina a
nuide in JUclimond ?tore* timt oilvcxlUo their lowest price* In theao paces*
= j
Auto trucks arrive in evpedlllonary camp after dusty trip across the sands. Section of Auto Truck Train No. 'J. arriving at the lioca (iramln
camp or tho expeditionary force in Mexico. These trucks have proved in valuable in carrying supplies, mail and ammunition to the hase i-anips in ,
Mexico from Columbus, X. M. It will he noticed that the first, auto truok carries huge containers, which arc filled with ^asoliue for use of
aeroplanes. I
Campaign for Tuesday's Primary
Close* Ucforo ('lay Ward
Aft ives.
HI.AKK I)!?:NIKS ItKMdX \ I. TALK
.Many Speakers Crge Voters to Conic
Out and Kvpress Their Preferences
at Polls?<'lay Ward Council Can
didates .Meet With Applause.
< '?? mlidates f..r Mayor. Mie Adminis
trative Hoard si?1 both branches of the
City (Joun-il made tti? final appeal
last nisrht to a croivd that completely
tilled the auditorium of Hinford Junior
High Srliool. and one ?'c.rapoyed fr.r thr>
most part of members of the flay Waul
Ac11ve Democratic Club l-*ver> candi
*i:11who appear* ? and there
some eighteen of them?was nt his
best, and he showed in clear manner
why h<> should be < 1?- ? t?? J The a'ten
t i o n was > s < ? 11 e r i t. a ? !. o w i n g 1 < > the
presviif?? of .( number of women, there
was no smoking. hot the enthusiasm
r>a hed the wildest applause at times.
The auditorium was almost tilled
when Henry Farmer called the tneet
ltig to order. He announced at the
outset that, owing to the large num
ber of speakers, it was neccssary to
set u limit. to time. Upon motion.
It wa.-i decided to limit all talks to ten
minutes each. Mr. Farmer further an
nounced t hat. t-> avoid any show of
partiality, he would call tipon the
speakers i:i alphabetical order.
< \MMIJATI> l-'Olt M \MIII
M<i: I'M It ST Tt? M'IMK
' aiiluiat' - f i?i* May or 'vere first an
, riourued. a i;d Mayor George Ainslie was
introduce.!. Mr. Ainslie, |? asking for
the suffrage of the clti/.eiis <.f flay
Ward, defended hi. record as the. chief
*i.\ec u 11 v e of Klchmoud. He Mated that
Ik- always wJeomed constructive crit!
cism. and at the conclusion of j,ls re
marks he was loudly applauded.
"? Hawkins was next introduced,
and lie stated that no man was ele ted
for more than his term of otl'oe. Ho
stated tii.-'T at the end of n man's tTin
of uiH.-e the gift went back to ti,. peo
ple to cive, to whomsoever t!^
'' ' urged all voters to turn
out. regardless of whether they voied
for him or not. Mating that i? was the
duly of ever} citizen to vote.
Kohert I,eeky. Jr.. was the iin.il can
didate for tlie Otli.e of Mayor, and he
told of his work ..n tlie Hoard of Kire
Commissioners and his life spent in
Ku'hnioiid. lie said that the Kire ltoard
was the onl\ hoard in the city govern
ment that had never- exceeded its ap
propriat ions.
lU.AKi; oiti.i \ks ins rum
I Oil \1?>|1 \ ISTitATI \ |.; IlitAltll
1 a ndida t es f?#r t l?o Administrative
followed the candidates for
Mayor , and George McI?. p,|;lko
the fu\<t to he int ro<hir<*ri. .\j
made an impassioned talk, stating t 'h u
whenever and wherever it wa- said
that he Intended to leave Richmond,
that statement was false. He accepted
gladly the vote of prohibitionists, and
said that In; expected to remain tore
and work for Uichmond in th._- future
as lie had in the past.
He excoriated those who had been re
sponsible for tho discharge of several
c|t> employees recently, and stated
that he. would tirst have had to know
hat tile men were totally incompetent
before he would have submitted to
their uncharge, lie also urged the
voters to con,e out or, Tuesday and cast
t n ballot, regardless of whether they
Sau lit to vote for him or not .Mi.
? a '? telerred to his competitors,
-stating that Mr. Knowles was too good
a man to lose from the City Gas Works
and that Mr llobson already had a
pood Job. Mr. Hobson. he stated, was
trying to perfect perpetual motion in
that he ran for office annually.
iioiisox i)i:\(M veils i?is< iiaiu.i;
<>K >IH\ WHO VH'I'KI) UltOMi
Graham It. llobson followed Mr.
I.lake, and stated that when the Demo
crats of Richmond cast their ballots
for him, either now or hereafter, they
nnght rest assured that thev were
casting their ballots for a Democrat
and not for an "Independent." He
spoke of the discharged men. and guar
anteed that the time would never come
when ho would see a man discharged
because he did not cast his ballot for
him.
Ho wished to know why it was that
after Superintendent Davis had made
out a list of twenty-five men to bo
laid olf, tho list was made over, and he
was required to copy it, and that it
was an entirely now list. Ho de
manded In stentorian tones to know
why it was that city employees were
laid off on account of political prefer
ment. He said that when tho people
voted for him that they wero voting
(Continued on~12lghth~P otfoT)
Dodd's Flying Column
Reported as Having
Already Netted Villa
Growing Confidence in
W ashington That Expedi
tion Is Rapidly Wear
ing Its Climax.
\\ AS M I N< iTO.V, April 1.?Although
no word came through to-riay from
'General Pershing's expeditionary force
in Mexico. there was a growing con
fidence here that the expedition was
rapidly ncaring. if it had not already
reached, its climax. Thrco days have
passed since Colonel Dodd's cavalry
dash at Guerrero scattered Villa's main
command,-and established definitely the
presence in the locality of Villa him
self; and army officers are certain that
the American troopers dul not allow
the trati to grow cold.
Hope for early capture of the bandit
chief was increased to-night by a
rumor reaching G- noral Guvira, Cf.r
ranza commander a; Juarez, that Dodd's
flying column had netted the fugitive.
The War Department had no informa
tion to confirm the report. Officials
pointed out, however, that General
Guvira had news of the Guerrero fight
hours before General Pershing's ac
count reached General Funston.
Ml. I IT WATCH MA I.VTA I Mill
at \\ aii ni;i'Ahtmi-;vr
A night watch was maintained to
ulght at the War Department, in the.
hope that further dispatches from
I'.r.shlng would be received. Secretary
Maker wired General Kunston to en
deavor to get further details of the
Guerrero engagement, ef*>ecially re
garding the four cavalrymen reported
slightly wounded. It was believed
their injuries were so trivial that Gen
eral Pershing did not forward their
names.
Colonel Dodd is far from a point of
communication. at least fifty or
seventy-five miles. While he probably
halted his troops for a brief respite
after their flfty-five-milo dash, fol
lowed by a running fight of five hours,
officers here dr. not believe he tarried
long. Difficulty in securing supplies
and water at their distance from the
main command may have caused a
short delay.
Initiation of the agreement giving
American troops temporary use of the
.Mexican North western itailway ap
parently has been halted through the
failure of the farranza authorities at
Juarez to receive instructions regard
ing it. The last Information from
General Kunston was that General
Gavira was awaiting instructions from
General Cnrranza to put it into actual
effect. 'Die question of whether <ien
??ral Funston or the Carranza govern
ment shall supply guards for supply
hipm- i.ts is considered a possible fac
tor in tiie delay. Some officials believe
the pending protocol will be arranged
ii'-fore actual shipments are begun.
WAH.MNG TO TltOOPI'.ltS
At;A I XST I.N rnt'TIO N
Possibility that the American troops
may contract fever which is epidemic
upon the Grand Plateau of Mexico,
caused the War Department to Issue a
special bulletin to-day warning the
troopers to guard against Infection.
The bulletin says the soldiers should
under no circumstances occupy native
unfumlgated houses or use native
clothing or bedding.
Late to-night General Funston wired
to the War Department a request for
additional motor trucks and truck sup
plies. His message contained no fur
ther information regarding the opera
tions of General Pershing's force.
FOR SOLDIERS IN TRENCHES
Smoking Tobacco. ClgnrrttcN ami f'nrn
coli Pipe* in Shipment on l.lner
I.caving .New \ ork.
NEW YORK. April 1.?The French
Lino steamer Hochambeau, which sailed
to-day for Ttordeaux, has on board
42.000 pounds of smoking tobacco,
2,500,000 cigarettes and 122 gross of
corncob pipes, which will be distributed
among tho soldiers of Great Britain
and France in Franco and Belgium.
The consignment Is in charge of Mrs.
George Washington Lopp, who has
been devoting all her time to tho col
lection of tobacco and pipes for tho
men in the allied trenches.
Since Mrs. I.opp began this work, In
December, she has collected in Amer
ica 101,200 pounds of smoking toblicco
and 6,900,000 cigarottes.
Waite Confesses
\i;\\ VOItK, April U \\ lint pur
port* to lie a formal runfcxliui l?y
l)r. Arthur W (irren Wiiife Hint lie
in ii rili* red Ills la t hcr-lti-ia w, .IiiIiii 10.
Peek, of I. r ii ml |{ii|ii(l<>, is printed
tills morning liy the New Viirk
World. 'l'lie confession is Kiiiil to
lie ooiitiiiiteil in n letter sent to the
newspaper liy \\ nlte. Accompnii y
liiK It Is another letter kIuiiimI liy
Wultor Ito^ers Duel, \\ nlie's eniin
sel, in which lie Is ?|?iote?| as saying
W lille desired to make his state
ment "to unburden his soul some
what from the heavy load upon It
aw the only thliiK he eouiil do in
atonement."
mill 15 LOST II LEE,
HEP8RT AT QHEBETBRO
Municipal President of Chihuahua
Town Kcports to Carranzii
War Department.
A.MIM TATIO.V I'OTNI) XK( KSSAKV
Hopes of Americans of Finding Itan
(lit Hasetl on Discovery of Track
of Carriage Wheels in Mountain
ous Wastes Near Kxt rente Front.
QUKRKTAUO, April 1.? Villa has
lost n lop, according to a dispatch re
ceived by the War Popart meat from
the municipal president of the town of
Ti iiiOFai'lilf, Chihuahua. w!,o reports
that Villa ivas so badly wounded It!
the surprise attack ro,.-t.:lv made on
the Constitutionalist uarri-on at Guer
rero that amputation of tlu* llinh was
necessary.
riir.v iioim: to tii mi. vii.i.a in
tii At 'K or r \ it ii i\t;i; >\ nr.r.i.s
CAM 1' ?'!?? HKXKKAI.
AT Til K KXTHKM K I' I;? 'NT. April 1
thy aeroplane t?> llehl lieaihpiartcrs
and by wirch-:.- t.> Columbus, .V M i.?
Hopes of the American <a\.i Iry men
under I'nlonol Ooorge A. l?i>dd of find
ing Villa among the snow-dad slopes
of the continental divide are based on
the discover \ to-ila.v ot' tie- track of
carriage wheels in a nii'iintai.mis
waste ti(j.\? in t e.
These, it is believed, tv.ny have been
niade l>y the vehicle which carried
away the injureil lender. liver since
they defeated the \'il!;i comma; i-r at
San iiernniino ranch with In >avy Inssos
last W'cdtiesday, the American ? ivalrv
cieii b.'.ve searched ocaselesslv for the
bandit leader, hut up to late, to-day lie
definite information conc- t liny his
wlier abouts had reached this camp
Villa, has disappeared in a way which,
considering tho relent le-^sncss of Hie
American pursuit, se.uis mysterious,
The American troops have not encoun
tered any natives who will even admit
they have seen Villa
livery gorge, canyon trail and water
ing place In the mountainous passes
in this vicinity is being watched by ait
scouts or searched by cavalrymen in
tho hope of discovering; the bandit's
hiding place. The aviators also are
keeping the column informed as to tlif
movements of the scattered remnants
of the band. Hope is expressed that
one of these, at least, may attempt to
rejoin thelt chief, and thus lead tht:
American forces to his hiding place.
GETS YEAR IN PRISON
Printer Who Printed (ordinal Moroler's
I.eaten Pastoral l.etter Arrested
nail Sentenced.
PAItIS, April 1.?A llavas dispatch
from Berne quotes tho Cologne Gazette
as announcing that the printer who
printed the l?enten pastoral letter of
Cardinal Mercier. the Ttelglan primate
to which tho German authorities iti
Belgium took exception, has been sen
tenced to a year's imprisonment.
Ilril Tape Displaced.
l.(>NI)OX, April I -By the substi
tution of while for red tape in gov
ernment odices, the British Cabinet
bus ?fteotod a saving of $7,000 a year.
AMERICAN TROOPERS
COMBING EVERY VALLEY
Villa, Wounded niirl Crippled. Ro
lieved to lit- Liu-king SnniewlH'ro
in ItiiiTon Mountains.
MAW KXTUA V.UJAXT 1CCMOKH
Feverish H.vcitcnii'iit Caused Along
Ilorder l>,v Dodd's Virtory Far
From Subsides?Interest Kudos In
(Jueslion of I'm1 of Hailromls.
!?*!< PASO, TK\ , April 1.?Somewhere
in the barren mountains of the conti
nental divide l-'ranciseo Villa, wounded
and crippled. and with hut a handful
of his follower?, is believed to he lurk
ing. Hard on his trail. American
troopers are combing every valley and
ravine, sear-'hinir every ranch house
and adobe lint, in the hope of ending:
the career of the bandit.
The feverish excitement caused alone
llie border by yesterday's news of Colo
nel l.?odd's victory at San Ceronlnio
ranch had far from subsided to-day.
The fact that three days have elapsed
since the smashing blow delivered at
the Villa band in the valley of the
.Santa Maria, without any further news
from Cenoral Pershing, has given birth
| to tint most extravagant speculation
and rumors. ?
The chief argument of the pessimists
is that if Villa was as desperately in
jured as reported, he should be by now
in the hands of his pursuers. But the
optimists retort by pointing out the
wild character of the country in which
he is hiding and the fact that most of
the natives of the mountains are sure
to do all they can to ha tile the Ameri
can soldiers by giving; tl*?m false in
formal ion.
DM I'M MIS I I'O \ SPKMI)
WITII Willi II \ II.I.A MO\ KS
Kverything apparently depends upon
the speed with which \*illa is able to
move. If his injuries have forced him
to seek safely in the mountains of the
divide, it is believed that he cannot
escape capture-, although he may elude
his enemies for many days yet. On the
other hand, if he has been able to
push e;tvt or southeast, he ought by
this time to have reached a country
where traveling is comparatively easy,
water and food plentiful and his ad
herent s 11iiui* rous.
The mie thing lliat seems reasonably
certain Is that before the < lose of to
day. or to-morrow at the latest. I: must
be definitely known if Villa is a dis
abled and ilesorted fugitive in the
mountains or if he has again won
freedom from the cordon thrown about
iiini and is maintaining his Might
southward. In the height of the ex
citement caused b> the news of the
battle of Sail Ceronimo, interest has
temporarily faded here In the question
of the use of the Mexican railroads for
transporting supplies lodencral Persh
ing's columns. Apparently, the solu
tion of this problem is still far from
found.
Ml 'I'll A IN \ It III VMS
\t .ii ami:/ run u i:i:k
A good deal of curiositv h.ts been
aroused over the failure of an\ train
to arrive at Juarez over the North
western Kailroad f?>r a weel; N'o train
has left lb" Mexican town in the same
time. A train from Casus i'. ramies, due
here yesterdnv morning, has not yet
put in an appearance. The Mexican
otlicials offer no letison for lis iioii
arrival, hut insist there has been no
mishap; a claim that is supported by
the taei that the Mexican railroad tele
yiaph is working without interruption.
There are at least seven carloads of
food and foraire at present in Juarez,
consigned from here to private con
cerns in Casas Crarulos Their depjir
ture is not being delayed by lack of
e<|iii pmen I, as three Mexican North
western engines, which were In the Kl
Paso and Southwestern Itailroad yards
here, have been repaired and taken
across the river.
While <!eii? ral Pell refuses to discuss
the aituatiou, it is said here that the
(liiestion of transporting supplies by
rail will be liehl in abeyance for a
few du> s, in the hope that the present
efforts of Colonel Podd's troopers to
capture Villa will be Successful.
A false alarm that Mexican raiders
had crossed the ltio CSrande and had
attacked an American ram-h house ten
miles east of here, sent soldiers and
policemen racing to the. scene in auto
mobiles early to-day. They found no
trace of the alleged raiders, and the
people in the ranch house could give
no explanation of the origin of the
report,
I .ft ?i (I for Settlers.
MlM.Ki H UNK. APSTKALIA. April
1.?The Victoria government has set
aside over 1.000,000 acres of land for
^aottlemont by soldiers after the war.
RUMOR ON BORDER
OF HIS CAPTURE IS
NOT CONFIRMED
Pershing Driving- Scattered
Bands From Hills and
Trails in Chihuahua.
RELENTLESS PURSUIT
BY AMERICAN TROOPERS
Some Doubt as to Whether Ban
dit Was With His Forces Dur
ing San Geronimo Battle.
may hf: in src ret iinirvc:
Funston Convinced of Truth of Re
port That Ho Was Rccrntly
Ti.ullv Wounded.
SAX ANTO.VTO. TEX., April 1.?Ab
senro of news from tdistrict about
Guerrero did not diminish flip belief
at General Funston's headquarters that
General Pershing was driving the
scattered and defeated bands of Villa's
forco from the hills and trails in that
part of Chihuahua, and that possibh
Villa himself had born captured. Brief
messages told of the continuation of
t lie chase by Colonel Dodd's cavalry,
that so effectually whipped f>"0 Mexi
cans at Guerrero on Wednesday, and
supportiiig forces that General Pernh
iiikt had, sent forward.
A written report from General Persh
ing. sent two days before the fight a I
Guerrero, dealt only with the detail*
of the troops' disposition since cross
ing the border, and the difficulties en
countered in getting his supplies ami
in maintaining' communications. fie
reported that the engineering forces
were working on the road north of
Casas Grandes, and on that part ex
tending southward towards Xamlquipa
He also called attention to the fact
that the aeroplanes are equipped with
engines of too low power.
Press dispatches telling of a report
from Chihuahua that Villa had bt-i :i
captured at Minaca, only a few mile*
south of Guerrero, were 'unconfirmed
by otllclal reports, but there was no
disposition to belittle them. General
Funston was convinced of the truth of
the report that Villa was badl
wounded prior to the fight at Guerrero,
and it was believed his escape was now
highly improbable.
It IDIMi MKItril.KSSI.V
IX 1*1"It.S 1"IT OF VIM.A
COM MRUS, X. M? April 1.?Riding
mercilessly, -100 American troopers, un
der Colonel George .V. Dodd, are malt
ing desperate efforts to capture or wipe
out the survivors of Francisco Villa's
largest command, which they defeated
at Sati Geronimo ranch several days
ago, according: to meager reports from
across the border to-day.
The speed and the re len t less n ess
with which the pursuit Is being mad?
Is indicated, according to army men
here, by the fact that General Persh
ing. who, last reports s.ild. was speed
ing from Xamiqulpa across desert
trails am! through mountain passes to
the scene of action, has not even taken
time to make a detailed report of the
engagement. Xor was any word re
ceived from Colonel Dodd, although
service at the army wireless station
here, interrupted by climatic condi
tions, was resumed to-day.
-Military headquarters here made this
sta tenien t. :
"Xo details of the engagement have
been received. The only messages re
ceived from the south were of purely
routine nature, and in none of them
was the engagement mentioned."
Other information indicated, however,
that there is still much doubt at iho
American field headquarters as to
whether Villa was with his forces dur
ing' the engagement. One report,
given much credence, was that lie sus
tained the wounds which broke his leg
and shattered his hip bone In the at
taek on the Carranza garrison at the
town of Guerrero on March :.'7, and was
carried away by a few chosen followers
t-? a secret hiding place in the wilder
ness around Guerrero.
Although tii?- pursuit by the Ameri
cans is a new experience for Villa,
army men here are not inclined to
ininiini/.e the task before Colonel f'odd.
?.l I'.ltltCltO DISTIIII r
IS ISOI.ATKII UKI.ION
The Guerrero district. in which
Villa, with a price on his head, was
able for eight years to escape capture
by Porflrio Diaz's rurales. is adiuilt> lly
one of the most isolated regions in
Mexico, and the one in which t; bandit
has tlie largest number of friei i
'?'rout the moment th new ..t iio
battle was announced, the gie.a.st ex
citement has prevailed in Columbus.
Scores of civilians ami soldiers ti
ered around the army wireless station,
expecting momentarily the news th.it
Villa had been caught, ami was being
brought to Columbus. Some suggested
that, even if Villa Is captured, i!
would be unwise to bring him across
the border, because of the feeling of
the people.
Something of tins sentiment was ox
pressed at ,i sale of thirty-four Villa
mounts captured by Amorican troopers
after the raid on Columbus. Men
gazed at the pitiful wrecks of what
once were stout cow ponies, the bones
of which even three weeks of American
grain had been unable to conceal, and
the flanks which had been cut in'o
strips by cruelly roweled sptiis. and
cursed the bandits. The gibes of the
auctioneer, who pointed to one sorry
animal and aaid, "Ha must have beoa
