WEATHER
Arizona ' Thursday
fair and colder.
wt W YCRK CITV
Average price of cop
per for week ending
March 29, 26.50.
Associate).! Press Special Leased Wire Service.
VOL. 18, No. 265.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, SUNDAY MORNING, APRIL 2,
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
VILLA THOUGHT Oil A MATTER OF DAYS Bl All OFFICERS
CAPTURE OF
NETHERLANDS
D
Widespread Anxiety Has A
risen Over the Action of
Holland in Taking Steps
Toward Defense.
BERLIN DOES NOT
FEAR THE COURSE
Scandanavian Countries On
Eldge Over the Possible An
nulment of Article 19 in the
Famous Agreement.
(By Review Leased Wire)
THE HAGUE, April 1. (Via Lon
don) The widespread anxiety which
has suddenly arisen respecting -.ha
ability of Holland long to keep out
or the war, is not due to the feelin.;
aroused by the sinking of the Dutch
steamer Tutantia, according to the
Nieuwe Countrant.
"Its cause," says the paper, "lies in
the general war situation which, ac
cording to infornipticn rceived, is now
entering, or is about to "enter a phase
which gives our country cause for
very special vigilance. We do not
know what our government apparently
fears but .concerning the character
of which we could obtain no exact
information will come to pass with
in a week or a month, or whether the
Lituation generally will remain mere
ly one of a more critical character
for our country. We venture only the
conjecture that a change In the situa
tion, which is now considered possi
tle, may be the outcome of the Allies'
conference that closed Wednesday at
Paris.
"We understood that in yesterday's
cabinet council matters were discus
sed with counsel of the government
with the highest military authorities
and consideration of the advisability
of holding a secret session of the
second chamber."
GERMANY NOT WORRIED.
BERLIN, April 1. (Via London)
The new measures taken by Holland
are not directed against any power
in particular and neither Germany nor
the Entente powers have reason to be
uneasy about them. They are direct
ed merely by prudence in view of the
policy that Holland might eventually
' become involved in the war and have
no other purpose than to further the
maintenance of the strictest neutral
ity. The foregoing is the substance of
information received by Darien Gev
ers, the Dutch minister to Germany,
this morning with instructions to
communicate it to the German foreign
office.
The baron went immediately to the
foreign office. The Dutch minister
emphasized the fact that the measures
only were directed by prudence and
indicated no intention on the part of
Holland to change its course.
Private advices reaching here from
Holland connect the' new measures
directly with the destructions at the
Paris conference of the Entente al
lies regarding their future economic
relations with Hollond.
The Associated Press learns the
news of the situation indicated ' by
-Holland increased watchfulness in re
garded not only without uneasiness
but even with a certain degree of
satisfaction in official German circles.
SCANDINAVIA CN EDGE. .
LONDON. April 1. A great stir
has been caused in Scandinavia by
the report that Great Britain has de
cided to suspend section 19 of the de
claration of London, according to the
Coppenhagpn correspondent of the
Exchange Telegraph company. The
genera! opinion is the decision is at
tributed to a decision to prosecute the
blockade of Germany with more vigor.
Some newspapers suggest that the
suspension is possibly a preliminary
to a formal announcement of a com
plete blockade, which may have been
decided upon at the Paris conference
of the Entente allies.
Great Britain issued an order in
council March 30, which declared that
"neither a vessel nor her cargo fhall
be immune from capture for a breach
of blockade upon the sole ground that
she at the Inomfnt is on Iter wpy to
a non-blockaded nort."
This is in contravention of section
19 of the declaration of London which
declares that neither a vessel nor her
cargo on her ay to a non-blockaded
port would be molested.
REPAH 6
FOR THE
115!
i
.
;
I
I
I
i
'
t
,
SHERIFF CALLED TO
MIXOT, X. D.. April' 1. Judge Kenneshuw was forced to call on
the sheriff to restore order during the trial of a $255,000 damage suit
against the governor and other state officials, who are charged hy
Grant S. Youmans, former president of the Mi not Savings Hank
with conspiring to close the hank in 1913. Youmans, who was being
examined by Assistant Attorney General Francis Murphy, one of
the defense's attorneys, hurled a heavy bank ledger at him which
nearly struck Senator Purcell. Purcell rushed Youmans, and the
sheriff was called to separate the two men.
ZEPPELIN FALLS
III MOUTH OF
THE THAMES
Crew of Captured Airship
Numbers 17. Credit for
Rescue of Crew Belongs to
. Trawler.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
LONDON. April 1. The German pri
soners of the destroyed Zeppelin, L-15,
number seventeen with thir command
er. They reached a southeastern mil
itary center this morning. All of them
are youthful in appearance and were
cheerful. The commander wore the
Irone Cross. ;
Some of them asserted that the crew
drew lots to decide who should remain
behind and blow up the Zeppelin when,
it was found the dirigible could fly no
farther. The task fell to a junior of
ficer, whose duty was to wait until
the remainder of the complement bad
left: then, on receiving a signal, blow
up the airship. This meant certain
death for himself.
When the patrol boat approached
Ibe Zeppelin, an explosion occurred, it
is thought, in the motor room.' The
airship shortly afterward crumpled up.
CREDIT FOR RESCUE
SHERNESS, April 1. Credit for res
cuing the survivors of the Zeppelin
L-15 belongs to the scouting trawiei
Olivine, commanded by Lieut. Wm. R.
Mackintosh, Royal Naval Reserve, but
naval men freely conceded that thel
credit for bringing the Zeppelin down
belongs to one of the land batteries,
which may be described as stationed
in an eastern county.
The Zeppelin came down in the
broad mouth of the Thames, Saturday
morning. These stretcnes oi water, as
well as the adjoining coast water,
swarm with patrolling sraft. . The air
shift's back had been broken by gun
fire; her gondolas were riddled with
shrapnel bullets. Several of her crew
were badly wounded.
Her commander had sufficient con
fidence in (he humanity of British sai
lors to send out wireless signals of dis
tress.
"She came down like a sick bird,
flopping at both ends, as if they were
wings," said a sailor who witnessed
the descent of the Zeppelin.
The sea was smooth and the night
war. clear, though dark, so the trawler
was able to take aboard wounded as
well as unwounded. Some of the crew
were at the top of the balloon while
the wounded and their attendants re
mained in the basket below.
After all the survivors were aboard
the Olivine, the crew of the trawler
attached a cable to the Zeppelin in the
hope that they would be able to bring
it in, but the airship broke in two. Her
ends stuck up in the air while the mid
dle section was well down in the wat
er. After making about two miles the
Zeppelin became waterlogged. ' A de
stroyer brought the survivors to shore.
The wounded were placed in a hospi
tal. ' ATTACKED IN DAYLIGHT
TETROGRAD. April 1. (via Lon
don. April 2) The official statement
on the sinking of the Russian hospital
ship Portugal in the Black Sea last
Thursday reads as follows:
"At eight o'clock on the morning of
March 30. the Franco, Russian hospital
ship Portugal, lying in the Black Sea
off eastern Anatodila, was attacked
by a German submarine. Two torpe
does were fired. The second torpedo,
bit the engine room of the vessel and
she sank in less than a minute.
"Eleven out of 26 Sisters or Charity
were saved by boats which accompan
ied the Portugal. The missing in
clude Count Tatisticheff. delegate of
the Red Cross. Dr. Pancricheff, Baro
ness Meverndoreff, Sister Superior of
the Sisters of Charity: fourteen Sis
ters of Charity; fifty Russian mem
bers of the crew and Red Cross and
29 men of the French crew. There"
were 273 persons aboard the Portugal
of whom 158 were saved.
'T'he Turkish government had rec
ognized the Portugal as a hospital
ship. She was painted with the pre
scribed colors. The attack was made
in broad daylight. The submarine
(Continued on Pas 4)
O.UIET COURTROOM.
ARMY INCREASE
No Limit is Placed on Cham
berlain Measure in Upper
Branch of Congress. Many
Amendments Offered.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
SENATE
Met. at noon.
Continued discussion of the ar
my reorganization bill.
Judiciary subcommittee vote 3
to 2 to recommend to the full com
mittee Louis Brandeis nomination.
Recessed at 4:45 p. ni. to noon
Monday.
HOUSE
Met at 11 a. m. Debate on Riv
ers and Harbors bill continued.
Adjourned at 5:10 p. m. to noon
Monday.
senate-
WASHINGTON, April 1. The Sen
ate debated the army increase bill a
gain all day today without any indica
tion as to when work would begin on
the mass of details. As yet Senator
Chamberlain, chairman of the military
committee, has made no effort Jo limit
general discussion which began yes-
t, ... ..
teroay ana u pronaoiy win cominue
Bec.. ..-. i
tails are IHKen Up.
Senator Borah told the Senate he
imu iuuiiu hii iiiui ijiuiiik ttuie, -u;iim i- (
tutional barrier against the proposal ;
i .. hilt tnr feHoroi,vtin nf h Vn. I
tional Guard. He gave many legal cl-
tations to support his contention that
Congress has not the power to entorce
the discipline it has the authority to
prescribe.
Senator Cummins and Senator Lew
"
BILL DEBATED
AT LENGTH
IN SENATE
is sharply disagreed with Senator Ho- ly or.ganu uajs .e "
rah. The Illinois senator asserted that I According to the refugees. General
the ambition of regular armv officers ! "'3 Herrera left Cn.huahua City on
to rise to deserved promotions was ; Tuesday ith a large number of troops
wholly responsible for the voluntary I Hisjlestination was not made public,
army proposals. Because the nation Triere were numerous reports in El
was resolved not to maintain a large -Paso today that' Villa' was already cap
standing army and since the constitu- j tured. Some of these were very cir
tion barred the graduates of West cumstantial but not one of thetn was
Point from promotion in the National capable of verification. The wish be-
Guard he said naturally they sought
an avenue of escape.
Senator Pomerene defended his am
endment proposing creation of a na
tional guard reserve. Senator Brande
gee added to the mass of amendments
now pending, a proposal to make the
maximum peace strength of the army
230,000 instead of 1KO.00O as proposed
in this bill. Senator Gore submitted
as an amendment, his bill proposing
that a military training course be pro
vided for any high school with an at-!
tendance or more than 450 pupils J of what had been accomplishd by thq
which are of age for military service. I Americans. But. the telegram receive
Another feature of national prepar-led said that Villa broke into Guerrero
edness was considered today by the at 3 o'clock Monday morning. The gar
House commerce commission with Secrisn engaged the assailants in heavy
retary Red field testifying in support reel fighting.1 A number were killed
of the lighthouse appropriation bill. n h sides. Then the Villistas loot
He said the 2."0 seagoing boat's, now ed the stores, but made off as soon as
in service, would be available as mine' 'he American Appeared. Villa was
planters or sweepers !n war time, top
drag equipment for loading pinnacle
rocks, he added, would be invaluable
for mine sweeping or to trap hostile
submarines.
The House naval committee was not
in session. Secretary Daniels is ex
pected to conclude his testimony Mon ! en Mexicans, including women and
day, when the hearings will be brought children, were killed. One American
to a close. Chairman Fadgptt hopes was on board but escaped uninjured,
to have the navy bill before the House The same advices said that the pay
two weeks later. master of the El Paso Mining Compa-
ny had been robbed by bandits three
METHODIST BISHOP DIES. 'miles from Chihuahua City three days
' p.so. There were twenty in the band
ST! LOCIS. April l.-llishop Naph-.and ,"pr ,oft the paymaster go after
taile. of the Methodist Kpisr,,8l I taking seven hundred pesos from him.
Church died todav at La Crosse. Wis. Donald McGregor, one of the Villa's
according to a telegram received here victims at Minaca, was a newspaper
Death was due to pneumonia. Bishop n,an hd worked in Denver, Cbl
Lucio was elected to the epicopacy cp" and in ,n,'r eastern and western
four years ago and since that time cities. During the Colorado miners'
had had supervision of the Methodist war. ne threw in his lot with the strik
churches in Montana. Wyoming andie nnd ,00,t P"11 ln ,ne ngbtinR be
Idaho. He lived In Helena. Montana, 'ween them and the militia. Nothing
The; body will be fcrounht here for
burial.' The funeral will be held here
next Tuesday. I
Bishop Lucio became ill two weeks
ago while on his way to New York
and he was taken to a hospital at
La Crosse.
3 AMERICANS!
MBBI.T
Arrivals from Chihuahua City
Tells of the Murder of Three
Citizens of U. S., a German
and an Englishman by Villa.
I ONE MAN ESCAPES
FATE OF THE OTHERS
Two Other Americans Remain
to be Heard From, Who
Were in That District All
"Gringoes" Must Suffer.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
EL PASO, April 1. The story or
'the murder of three Americans, a Ger
!man and an Englishman at Minaca
was brought here today by Americans
arriving from Chihuahua City and was
accepted as authentic by federal offi-
cials.
The bandits' victims were Benjamin
Snell, Dr. A. T. Stell. Lee Lindsley,
Americans; Herman Blankenberg, a
German; Donald McGregor, also
known as Bruce, a P.ritish subject.
Two other Americans, Henry Acklin
and Frank Woods, were in Minaca at
the time but their fate is unknown.
The news was brought to Chihuahua
City by J. L. Locke, the only American
who is known to have escaped the
massacre.
According to the ;ry Villa captur
ed Minaca, Guerrero and San Sidro
last Monday. Everywhere he went he
'announced his intention of putting to
j death every "gringo" that fell into his
:hands and h ',arrifd out his Intuition.
As far as the Mexicans were concern-
d ,he b!indi promised safety to all
those who did not take up arms a
noinut him Vrt miflrtPr WAS Khnvn tn
,ne Carranza troops who attenipted to
j-pgjgf pjm
', . ,. . . . .
The one gleam of light in the dark
?!ory. the Probability that Villa's
t,ooa ,us' wna KOi- V?aa umea
upon to deliver his crushing blow at
San Geronimo ranch, two days after
the cri re of Minaca, a blow that has
raised high hope that the blood thirs-
... j.- -il J
mg father to the thought was appar-
em ly the basis for the stories.
It was in the raid on Guerrero last
Monday that Villa was wounded, be
ing shot in the knee, according to a
message today by General Gavira at
Juarez from General Gutierrez, tele
graphing from Chihuahua City. Gavi
ra had asked fof further information
about Colonel Dodd's battle.
Gutierrez explained that the wires
were working badly on the southern
loop and he had only the bare details
wounded in the knee.
I Tolpprnnis received from Chihuahua
City in Juarez today said that a
freight and passenger train on the
Northwestern Railroad 1 had beene
wrecked some weeks ago between Min
aca and Chihuahua City. Twenty sev-
iH known here of Acklin. Woods or
Lindesley. Dr. Stell came from New '
Orleans and ha? lived for eomo year'e
in Mexico. Blankenberg was a minn
foreman and has worked for several
years for several American concerns
(Continued on Tage Four.)
IB BY
BANDITS
DAIRY FARMERS STRIKE.
CHICAGO, April 1. The dai
ry farmers made good their
threat toduy to dump milk into
the ditches rather than see it
go to the distributors who re
fused to r.f et the demand
for mi increase of "2 cents in
i he price. Not until the strike
was actually under way today
was It known whether it would
le a success or be wrecked hy
individual capitulations.
OF
"FOX" VERY
Cavalry Forces Said to Have
Found Tracks of Wheels
and Follow in Hope of Find
ing Wounded Bandit
(Bv Review Leased Wire)
('AMP OF THE COMMANDING
GENERAL. AT THE EXTREME
FRONT, April 1. (By aeroplane
to Field Headquarters and by
wireless to Columbus, N. M Apr.
1) Hopes of the American Cav
alrymen under Col. George A.
Dodd. of finding Francisco Villa
among the snow clad slopes or
the great continental divide are
based on the discovery today or
the tracks or carriage wheels in a
mountainous waste near here.
These it is believed may have
been made by the vehicle which
carried away the injured leader.
Ever since tiiey defeated the
Villa command, at San Geronimo
Ranch, with heavy loss last Wed
nesday, the American cavalrymen
have searched ceaselessly for the
bandit leader, but up to late today
no definite information concern
ing the whereabout had reached
this camp.
Villa has disappeared in a way
which, considering the relentless
ness of the American pursuit,
seems mysterious. The American
troops have not encountered any
natives who will even admit that
they have seen "Pancho" Villa.
Every gorge, arroyo, canyon,
. trail and watering place in the
mountainous passes in this vi
cinity is being watched by Ameri
can air scouts or searched by cav
alrymen ln the hope of discov
ering the bandit's lair. The avia
tors also are keeping the column
informed as to the movements of
the scattered remnants or the
band.. Hope is expressed that
one of these at least, may attempt
to rejoin their chief and thus lead
the American rorces to his hid
ing place.
BLAMES ENGINEER.
CLEVELAND, Ohio. April 1. Plame
lor the New York Central wreck at
AmVrst last Wednesday in which 2
were killed and 40 injured was placed
on Herman Hess, engineer of the sec
ond section of train No. 86. which
( rashed into the second section while
running i0 miles an hour through a
dense fog. hy D. C. Moon, general man
ager of the company in an official
statement Issued tonight.
The fixing of the blame says Mr.
Moon was determined by the rai!ronds
own investigation and corroborated
bv the evidence at the hearing hy the
Interstate Commerce Commission
which ended today. The session or
tne joint federal-state investigation
will not be made public until later. .
NEW RECORD ESTABLISHED
NEWPORT NEWS Va Inrtl i
Glenn H. Curtiss announced that Steve
McGordon of New York Instructor lit
tle Curtiss aviation school here, es
tablished a new cross country passen
ger carrying flight record today wNcn
he flew rrom Newport News to" Wash
ington a distance of 300 miles In four
end a half hours without tnr.in .
the engine. The machine wa in the
Mr five hours and five minutes, but
"5 minues or that time, according to
McGordon. was sDent In nliitii.tn
flights. McGordon was accomnanfed
by Lieut. Vivian Hewett. of the Brit
ish I'.oval Naval Service li
ing machines for the British govern
ment. The machine in which the
flight was made is a Curtiss military
tractor-powered with a 60-horse power
engine. It Is similar to the ma
chines sold the British and Russian
governments hy the Curtiss rompany.
ROUNDHOUSE DESTROYED
DICKINSON. N. D April .1 The
Northern Taclflc roundhouse includ
ing the shops, was badly-damaged to
night by flre. Tb nja'o pair of the
structure is a total wjeefc. Five en-!
gtnes, including two of the heavy
passenger type, were burned. Raii
road men believe the tire caught
from defective light wires.
SOON
BANDITS' LOSS II THE
GUERRERO
a am
Bodies of Mexicans, Who Had Been Serving Under the "Lion
of the North" Are Found in Every Part of the Town and
On the Trails Leading to the Mountain Fastnesses to Which
they Fled from the Murderous' Fire of the American Army.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
SAN ANTONIO. Tex., April 1.
Villa's loss In dead at the battle
with A9mericans at Guerrero Wed
nesday was placed at sixty hy
General Pershin today in a report
to General Funston. The bodies
were round in houses in Guerrero
und scattered in the underbrush
Tor miles along the routes taken
by the fleeing Mexicans. Villa
himself was believed to be north
east or Guerrero. But General
Pershing expressed the helier that
thre was little chance or his es
cape, for detachments from four
regiment j of cavalry have been
disposed in such manner in the
district that he has been reported
surrounded and escape carefully
guarded. General Pershing's re
port was dated "March 31 April
1" causing army officers here to
believe it was written yesterday
but not filed until today. Addi
tional details of the fighting about
Guerrero were not given by Gen.
Pershing, but he said yesterday
that a snow-storm sweeping over
the San Geronimo ranch, a region
of high elevation, had made the
operations of the troops more diffi
cult and exceedingly uncomfor
table for the soldiers who were
moving with light equipment.
From Customs Collector Cobh,
at El Paso. General Funston re
ceived a teiegram saying that an.
American from Mexico had re
ported to him that Villa's men had
killed a German named Blanc ken
ship and two Americans whose
names he did not know on March
27. a few miles from Guerrero.
SAN ANTONIO, April 1. Absence I received frotn Colonel Dodd. although
of news today from the district about ! service at army wireless station, was
Guerrero did not diminish the he- resumed today.
lief at General Funston's headquar- Military headquarter here made
ters that General Pershing was drlv-j this statement:
ing the scattered and defeated ban-. "No details of the engagement hav
dits of Villa's force from the hills and I been received. The only messages re
tralU in that part of Clmiuahua and i ceived fr..ni the south were of pure
that possibly Villa himself had been ! ly routine nature, and in none of them
captured. I was the engagement mentioned."
Brief messages told or the contlnu.i- Other information received Indicat
tion or the ride or Col. Dodd's caval-i ed. however, that there is stil! much
ry and supporting forces that General ; doubt at the American field head
Pershing had sent forward, but the quarters as to whether the bandit
results or the operations or Thursday, j chier was with hi (-forces during the
Friday and today are unknown, at I engagement.
headquarters. One report, given much credence.
A written report rrom General Per was that Villa sustained the wounds
shing sent two days before the fight at
Guerrero was received, but this dealt
only with the details of the troop dis
positions since crossing the border
nnd the difficulties he had encounter
ed in getting his suplies and in main
taining communication. He reported
that the engineer's rorces were work-
ing on the road north cr Casas Gran-1
des and on that part extending south-'
ward towards Namiquipa. The roads
south of Casas Grandes were reported
in better condition than those to the
north. He also called attention to
the fact that the aeroplanes are equip
ped with engines of too low power.
Press dispatches, telling of a report
from Chihuahua that Villa had been
captured at Minaca only a few miles
south of Guerrero, received, were re
ceived by officials here and there was
no disposition to belittle It. Both Gen.
Funston and his sta ffotficers said they
would not be surpriesd If it were true.
They were convinced of the truth of
the report that Villa was badly wound
ed prior to the fight at Guerrero and
It was believed that his escape was
now highly improbable.
CONFIDENCE GROWING.
WASHINGTON. April 1. Although American cavalrymen,
no word came through today from i Scores of persons, civilians and sol
General Pershing's expeditionary j diers gathered around the army wire
force in Mexico, there was growing ;1ess station expecting momentarily the
confidence here that the expedition news would In? flashed through the
was rapidly nearing, if it had not al-1 air and that he had been captured or
ready reached, its climax. Three day's killed. Some suggested that even tr
have passed since Colonel Dodd's cav-i Villa is captured it would be unwise
ry dash at Guerrero scattered Villa's ; to bring him across the border be
main command and established, defl- j cause or the feeling of the people,
nitely. the presence in ll'.at locality Something of this feeling was ex
or Villa himself, and army officers ! pressed at a sale of 34 Villa mounts.
are certain that the American troop- j
ers did not allow the trail to grow ;
cold. I
A night watch was maintained to-!
night at the war department in the;
hone that further dispatches from. ner-! grain, had been uuabl eto conceal at
shlng would he received. Secretary i at the flunks which had been cut into
Baker wired General Funston to en- stripes by cruelly rowelled spurs, spat
dcavor' to get further details or the on the ground and cursed the ban
Guerrero engagement. dits who had owned the animals. The
Intimation or the agreement bv i jihes of the auctioneer, who pointed
which American troops will have t"tn-
porary use cc the Mexican Nort'iwest-'
ero Railway, pending ratification of
a more complete and comprehensive
protocol, apparently has halted thel
failure of the Carranza authorities at'
BATTLE Si
Juarez to rpcejve instructions re
garding it. Secretary Baker said to
day he had not modified his Instruc
tions to General Funston to tender
supplies for shipment to the railwav
authorities.
The las-t information was that Gen.
Gavira was awaiting instruction from
i General Carranza. who agreed to the
1 arrangement several days ago. to put
j it into actual effect.
State and War department official
restrained tonight their intention to
await results of fair trial of the tenta
tive protocol before pressing for fur
ther conce ;sions.
Late tonight General Funston wired
to the war department a request for
additional motor trucks and truck sup
plies. Hts message contained no fur
ther Information rerarding the opera
tions or Pershing's force and depart
ment officials took it for granted he
had none.
TROOPERS PRESS FUGITIVES
COLUMIU S. N. SI.. April 1 Rid
ing mercilessly, four hundred Ameri
can troopem under Colonel George
A. Dood. are making desperate effort
to capture and wipe out the survivors
of Francisco Villa' largest command.
I which they defeated at San Geronimo
I ranch several days ago, according to
' meagre reports seeping across the bor
I der today.
' The speed and the releutlesness
with which the pursuit is being made
is Indicated, according to army men
here, by the fact that General Persh
ing, who last reports said was speed
ing from Namiquipa arross desert
trails and through mountain passes to
the scene or action, has not even ta
ken time to make a detailed report of
the engagement. Nor was any word
which broke his leg and shattered hi
hip bone in the attack made on the
Carranza garrison at the town of
Guerrero, March 27 and that the lead
er was carried away hy a few chosen
followers in a jolting wagou to a se
cret hiding place in the mountain
wilderness around Guerrero.
Although the pursuit by the Amer
icans is a new experience ror Villa
and one he has never met in all Ms
career at a guerrilla, army men here
are not inclined to minimize the task
before Colonel Dodil. The Guerrero
district in which Villa, with a price on
his head, was able for eight years to
escape capture by Portirio Diaz's m
rales. abounding as it does in i-avcs.
canyons and almost impassable moun
tai nt rails, all screened from the eye
from the eyes of air si outs by heavy
growths of mountain pines. Is admit
tedly one of the most desolate regions
in all Mexico and the one in which
the bandit has the largest number of
friends.
From the moment the news of the
battle was announced the greatest
excitement has prevailed in Columbus
the town which Villa attacked less
than three weeks ago and In which he
'murdered eight civilians and seven
captured by American troopers affe
the raid on Columbus. 'Men gazed at
the pitiful wreck of what once were
stout cow ponies, the hones of which.
even within three weeks of American
at one sorry animal and said "he must
have been a good one. He looks like
they'd all taken turns at ridfng him."
aroused no response except muttered
curses.
(Continued on Page Three.)
