B
-
, :: .
THE TOMBSTONE EPITAPH
Published every Saturday evening.
give ah the news .f the week, county.
Mtu.l general. "and more cspcciallv
; jid happs lings of interest to
thi- ptople cf Tomlu one and Cnihise
Yearly Mticriptions .V .10
4. ZS nunnAur cnirinu
. lumujiuitL Lrimrii
.L'BSCRIPTIOK RATES:
Vear'. 12.50
Month 1.25
.ingle Ccpies 05
Address' Tombstone Epitaph.
Tombstone. Arizona.
I
WEEKLY EDITION OF THE TOMBSTONE DAILY PROSPECTOR
VOLUME XXXVI
TOMBSTONE, COCHISE COUNTY, ARIZONA, SUNDAY, APRIL 2, 1916
NO. 21
ilii ill li I nTI inn li' 11 buL I I iH wnl 1
illllMllC'
5:
r !
WORE ORE BEING PRODUCED
IN GDGHfSE CflUMTY THAN EVER
BEFORE; ffllCD HIGHER PRICES
A Resume of the Mining Pnij erties of the County; Many
producers Brought to Light By Present High
, Prices Being Received for Metals
UNCOVER PETRIFIED, FORESTS OF COLUMBIA RIVER
msrm
on three
estate lomed
on the road between Gleeson and
CiiuiUnd An extension of Mine has
been givmtolhe parties, who have
tie option on thi Conner group, but
it is expected ibe will begin work
on after the first of Aori!. Waller
work
TOMBSTONE IS SHIPPING MMESE AND BULLION
At the present time then- is n.oie . alng good showing The Lesdviile
ore. oeing produced iu Coch.se c..unt , Company hai alout Ihirt) men at
than at any lime in its btsiori. in.' 1 norL.
the mine owners ire receiving m .r- re j The I-barnon Comp.iiy, at Glres-n,
turns from tbtir work than e.cr be has a jnmll fticr at w. rk and are l ip
fore- : pirg ioibr Mmlters at Clifton The
In the Huacbucjs, in the sold di- Mccia Bro' hers and fan es Starr bav.
tnct. volorado iarnes have tjken an i begun work, on ik- lease
option on sotr.e gold properties Itierr cliiras of the Cistcllo
and wilt soon start development wurk
Work has also bt', started t,n tht
Texas group, and G J Petrrsou is a!
work gelling out car of ore fron. bi
propirty. the laet thdi he sb.i:ed
netted him excellent returns
The past weik has eeu cons'der-1 CummiTgs is doing deveIopmn:
able headway at the Twa Peaks plop- on his claims.
erry and it is rapidly being developed) The .Commonwealth Comoan). at
into a latgejow grade cupper pro;. ry Pearce, is running the mill at the full
Tl.- wsrk on the mine tunnel tras j capacity and shippinjt bullion-and
stalled during the present month. The jc ncentr.ites The Commonwealth
company rtas pcrrha-d a cornp'eor llx'easion company ate moving along
and iir diilb win l -till 't- ii-M!ed j cicely and have otened up on.ijcr
On f6e Buck claim the ur continues t bly mire ore. John Pearce. the
iii ihe luTiiieL ' o iiina! locater of (It Comuionweallh
On 'Ihe Latrieu-C adwick rru . a "' ,ne Oitninon-ealt'i Exteniian.
1 1
cl firt dt&ltic r-rf be dout tunu 4Vatce and West Wells showing' "con-
The 'Drapir camp, at Jrhi'in Jsiileiable oie below the surfrce, and he
the Ut wtek. has seen conidt ejldc t Jl oon begin sinking a shaft.
development woik. At the Prcir.os' At the Mascot Company, at Dos
"Chemical camp the concentrator is I Cabr-as. s'veral new Lodies of oie
- bcinc o-orke.! rich! and day M iny I hav be-n opened up in the lower
individual o.eners arc at work and l.-vcl. Tom Smi.h is at work on the
arc-cleaning up ood money Sev -lal , Juniper group and has shipped to the
deals have lueu made recently and ; .inciters a: Douglas, ore averaging 1 15
teaes are lo be let 10 S50 per Ion in gold and silver. T
' The principal eventual Couriland. j - Bine lias recently uncovered a
the past ek was ihe artisal cf the J pocket averacing over
YSP ' - I
f MBfc
BELIEVED THAT VILLA WILL
BE CAPTDBED WITHIN FEW
fS:
REP
WOUNDED
Gen. Guiterrez Reports Villa Dangerously Wounded In
Knee and Hip Crushed; Hiding In the
.Mountains South of San Geronimo
.GERMAN
ZEPPELINS R.!D RST COAST OF
ENGLAND
ihe xtmkoii utitl ifitl fnr"t ut-ar lor(lu!il. Ore, which are now viewed b. tou.Li .is a njr --i iUe
buIUlIns of t!ie Cwluml.la rnor hltrhwnr tbiotib the river gorges The bUzhway wl'.l receive Us natlounl ii.lUu(Iua
Jui: I oMMiftij d:( r IirtjirnV Tenth rise i.tlr.ii
I RING AT
9 O'CLOCK BEGINNING
TONIGHT
KecinninK i inifcht. announ ces Chief
A Police Geo Bravn, the ct-ifew bell
will rine at 9 o'clock instead of S. as
during Ihe winter months The even
ing are longer during the summer
m nlhs, and the youth of Tombstone
whic-'a is under bend to Kl Paso prople (' drilled on a piopeity between m ,aVe a ebacre to reiriafn on hour
later. But tay'ng o'nt later, boys, -meaas
"look out for Chief Iiraviu. or
he'll get au in the jug."
LOOKING
WARD 24 YEARS
TOMBSTONE
Interesting Items that Ap
peared in the " Prospector,'
this Date, 1892; Remin
iscent of the Pioneer Days
CRAZY SOCIAL" IS
SUCCESS: A "GRAZY"
JAUREZ, April 1. -Eleven carloads of supplies, consist
ing of oats, sugar and flour, left the border today for
Caas Grandes. It was not consigned to the American
army but was purchased by the Mormons in that vicinity,
who will sell it to the soldiers. The train had no guard
whatever, and only one American was aboard. Another
train will leave Monday.
Six thousand Carranza soldiers are at Torreon and will
be dispatched to clean out the small bands of bandits in
the vicinity of Laguna.
COLONIA DUBLAN. April 1. -Gen. Pershing has
received orders to immediately exterminate the scattered
bands of Villistas, The soldiers cheered wildly upon re
ceipt of the news.
The "Crazy Social" civen by ihe
Daisy class of the Congregation.
church, last night at (he church hou.e
was a decidrd success The attend-
new macl.imry for the Lrai)villi
company and the opining up of :
a 3100 a too
Jr. Speak' and Ted Wadgbial, en
ihe Copper Reef property, ate running
body of good grade of copprr orr near . tunnel lo connect with a shaft in
'THREE MMDS FROM
CHI" LEAVE FOR HIKE
TO BISBEE
The public need not imagine that
nothing is being doue to capture the
men who escaped from
jail Wednesday night. Every trail
, and road leading fram this city is
' closely guarded and is seem almost
I impossible that any of the -men can
(escape Sheriff Helton has offered a
I
leward of 350 for the arrest of each
I of the escaped parties
EL PASO, April 1. Desperately wounded, Villa re
joined his forces who are in hiding in the mountains
south of San Geronimo, where they have been since the
battle at that place, Wednesday. General Luis Gutierrez
. l. il TMt . t..j' 1T .. l? ."
ance was large and aii enjoyed them- reports mat v ina was snot in me Knee aurmg me san
selves at the expense of the Daisies, Geronimo raid, and that his hip was crushed by his horse
and their -cray-amies The pr -; falling uj)on him. It is boleived thai his capture within
gram was funny from beginning lo end , rl, ..- f... A,7C :c orn1rw:,nr InmnRrmorl ronni-tc catr
that Villa has made a successful escape from this vicinity
(and has resumed his flight southward.
and all did themselves credit in carry
ing out their part of the program
Mr. L O. Woolery was awarded the
two prizes for. being the "crazist"
the county I attired man aid lady. Iir .n Ire--
ed as a "coon" lady and carried out
his part so well that the judges decid
ed that he deserved both prires. It
was the unanimous opinion that the
only "crazy" part of the atfair, was as
' Res. Amundsen said, in charging l!
! cents instead uf 25 cents. Following
EL PASO, April 1. Rumors to the effect that Villa
has been captured at Minata reached the border this
afternoon. These reports, however, could not be confirm
ed. LONDON. April 1st. German Zeppelins today raided
the east coast of England, and in London 28 persons were
killed an 40 injured by the bombs dropped by the monsters
There were two squadrons in the raid. One
The last seen of the "three little I Dans, the little opium fiend, who ' " program as carried out
maids from Chi" this morninr ih.v.wns Ibe instigatoi of the battle for Vocal Selections by ih- Daisies
i ' , ,
thf -urface on the C & A. ground by , which tb-re has been onenrd tin I wrre headed for Itish-i- liiie.ni. thir . freedom, is again behind the bars. Piano Solo Miss Mildred Marts i 01 tlie air.
Jam s Hamilton. The machinery will ' coop-r and silver ore. The Le Roy (stay litre they pii.l the Kpitaph nifici ' "e was captured last night in the Reading Miss Matia McLelland j yaS hit by bj" the English artillery and fell tO the earth.
he .nsts'tltd on the Maid of Sunchin- Mining '.empauy, owned by H. A.
claim. Most of the leasors base bten Morgan of Willcox and Tom Power., monument.
roing fairly well and the diMrir- i, l ipptd a car of ore to .he smelter Million Dollar
Theatre and the Modoc stage the i till he had been loosened up with the!50" by the Daisie
"once over" They wre delighted I ding he craved, and the longing for j Recitation. .Miss Kathelen McClelland
with Tombstone and its historic sur which kept him in town and caused I uo lnc Class
roundings. i Ins capture. ! Iilocutionary Exhibition
In the Tombstone district operations
.onlia ue lo be prosecuted in Ihe usual
Jressivc manner anl development
work continues. Manganese concen
laies .ind ore are being shipped to
the eastern market, while the mill is
turning out its usual quota o. bullion,
brstdts the manganese concentrates.
Itn all the outlook for the Tombstone
district never looked better.
liiai me i ji.ieu oiaus was auso-t valued at 1130 per ton. George Lad
lutely unprtparei Tor war i clearly 1 and Chas Elliot opened a some gold,
vldent with the advance ct a ,few'ler and lead ore that will average
UNITED STATES ARMY
PROVES A FAILURE
SAYS BISBEE PAPER
thousand men into Mtxco. The- men
are unable io stand tfc. moderate win
ter of the near tropica without the pro
tection of camp and barracks, and
many are being sent back to" the ho?
pltal imfferlng from illness trhlc!i
would not b fearei by the arfragc
miner or suirface worker of the souti
wet. Dleae caused by lack of 'tea
bakery and meat market foods !
prefalnt and our soldiers are provln?
unfit physically to withstand the rlror
which are- oonsiderei part of the .at
trartions of an ordinary roooutalii
fcnmlnz trip. ' w
fow-ver. -he orJieers are pr-.rein-'
the weakest spot, whfehis not a sur
prise to thone who hav studlid til"
American military collece system ind
Ui? aristocratic caste which It ban prrv
v
dnced. 'The army officer Is opprd to
any but a Wesft Po'nt gralaate beins
admitted to the charmed circle of an-
over a 3100 dollars a Ion.
a visit as well as giving the Schielitliii , adobe house oa.tht corner of nth and J Duet. . Mrs. Meeker and Mrs Amundsen , 'pg entire CreW WaS Captured.
Can Can restaui:; Bruce streets, by Chief of Police Ryan. ' selections Dy me jja.sy urchestra ,
to say anythiig last taiCht Argumentation Rev A. Amundsen
Stope,
Bud Cage j He refused
STREET WORK WILL BE COCHISE COUNTY'S
LET BY
I A clue to the location of some of the
Confirmation Services j gang, was furnished this morning by
There will be confirmation .erviccs j u m TomhnsonTwho lives in the Btady
at the Episcopal Church, Sunday Uause at p:ckm.up. He came to
evening at 7:3U. when Ili.hop Atwoodtowa u,t night and returncd hola.
of the Diocese of Arizona will be her, I lTOn Had 12 o'clock. The
ard confirm a dais. All are cordially (house was standing, but that was
invited to attend the services. j about all. He stayed at the bouse of
The old Johnson Bisbee-Tombstone , a friend, and this morning he armed
Stage, now operated by the Cochise
Work at the Hill Top pioperty in I Motor .Co., has reduced the fare to jibe thieves. The sheriff's office had
the Chtricahuas is progressing niccly
acd regular shipments being matld.
At Paradise, George Walker is taking
out considaiatle ore.
tbxrity. An attempt has been made by
the autocrats of the military system ts
make aviaors. engineers, wireless su
pervisors, transportation experts out
of the shavetail productof West Point,
and the result Is a failure.
Auto trucks won't ran, wlreleW
plants won't alk. roads won't stand,
airships wont By, arjj the poor priv
ates w5o are In Mexico must suffer.
Town Topics, Bishee.
I
Returned from Bisbee N
Mr. Ad?msT tonsorial artist, al
Stewart's Shop, returned borne 'yester
day .from a seveial da) s visit in Bis
bet.
beginning on April
. Adv. lw
himself and started on horseback afier
$1 00 each way.
2nd.
An Invitation
The sickness among children of our
town is now over. The school is now
going as usual, and our Sundar school t
has been open for all scholars for two
Sundays past. Let every single scholar
be in his place in his class next. Sun
day. And this is a hearty, cordial in
vitation In all. children and adults,
men and women, to attend our church
services. This is Ihe Lenten season
and a serirs of Lecten sermons' are
being delivered at tbe morning hour,
II o'clock. Tbe subject for next Sun.
day meming is: "Tbe Mission of
CInist"In the evening the subject
will be, "The Blessin g of not Havin.-."
We ate asking you kindly to come to
come to these services; and come the
following Sundays. We have many
good things in (tore,
REV. ALBERT AMUFDSEN.
two :neii on tbe same trail at day
light and about 4 p. m. tbe latest
from Ibe pursuit was contained in a
tint- to W. K. Meade from near tbe
river in which' the news was conveyed
that they were close to the fugitives.
Timilinsun is with the party, and as
be has something beside a $50 reward
in his eye. there will be a surrender
or a fight
HUNT ANNOUNCES CANDIDACY
PHOENIX. March 29. Governor
Hunt in a public statement today an
bounced bis candidacy for reelection.
He says it is not personal ambition,
but a desire to serve the people that
led him to make tbe race again. Tbe
announcement of the governor was not
unexpected. His friends have been
working for some time is bis behalf.
by some of the Daisies
Vocal Solo with orchestra Accompani-
mem Mrs. Amundsen j
A "Daisy" Song by tbe Class '
WILLCOX LADV STUNNED;
nv n finu nr i
di ruion ur
TRACT
E
PROSPERITY SHOWN BY
RECORDER'S REPORT
Work by contract, the only wav io
get reults. wilf be-started ou the ity
streets just as soon as the street tax
fund are available It is understood
thai the main arteries of travel will be
contracted for first, which means the
west end of Allen street and Ihe east
end of Freemont siieet.
WILLCOX. April 1 Lightning
which accompanied the freak storm
that burst over the valley, nearly
claimed Mrs. F. T Ewin; as a victim.
Mrs. lining and her husband had
been shopping in Willcox and were en
route to their ranch west of (own
when the storm broke looe and Mis
Lswis-struck by lihtn.ng. Except
for being temporarily stunned she
seemed to be unhurt and soon recov
ered from tne shock. Her hat pin was
bent double and the pair on the back
of bcr neck was burned.
COPPER CIRCUIT FOR
TOMBSTONE WILL BE
. STARTED SOON
Rebuild Home
The Rafferty home which was parti
ally destroyed by fire, Thursday
be rebuilt.
ill
The big poles for the copper wire
circuit which will put Tombstone in
direct communication with Frisco, Sin
Diego. Los Angele, Denver, Chicago
and New York as well as tbe rest of
the country, will "os completed Mon
day night, and work on the new city
system will be started as soon as the
material arrives, the invoices of which
are now in tbe hands of Manager
Evans.
Evidence that C o c h i s e county
if prosperous, and more trausactious of
real estate and mining property are
taking place than ever before in the
hislory of the county, is taken from
the monthly report of County Record
er Owen E. Murpby. just compiled.
The report hows that during the
month a total of $12:13 55 was collect
ed in fees for the filing cf instruments,
which in the history of the county is
the largest amount of business done in
any one month in tl s branch of tbe
county government. Since the first of
yt.ir l'.PsS instruments have been filed
with the recorder, there being 25 in
J January. 702 in February and 701 in
March, aud Jaunary's fees were
eO.iij. while February brought in
!$1122 10, and March bringing ia
112ZZ.CZ breaks the record.
This speaks well for Cochise county
and for the amount of busTness that is
bting transacted.
To Bisbee
Allie Howe went to Bisbee on offi.
busiaess this morning.
El
mPSJ!
-'-3&&r.it .
j2.
-4.
