DAILY EDITION
at
J '"o.
t) VOL. VI., No. 160.
"rr; PAHS, JOHKPHI.NB OOVNTV, OltKOON', SUNDAY, APRIL 2, 1010
WHOLE NOffiEK 1710.
No Other Town in the World the Size of Grunts Pas Has a Paper With Full Leased Wire Telegraph Service.
U
ZEPPELIN IS
1811
111 RAID
One of the Fleet of five
Aircraft That Bombarded
English Coast Was Brought
Down Off Thames Estuary
Undon, April 1 One of the five
Zeppelins which raided the east cout
t Rnglnnd last night wm ihot down
by anti-aircraft guna and fell Into
the water off Thamea estuary, it waa
learned today. The place where the
raider waa wrecked waa 45 mllea oast
of London. Patrol boats immediately
surrounded the floating Zeppelin, and
Ita crew surrendered.
. Juat as the last Gorman waa taken
off, the great alrthlp broke up and
sank.
It la believed thla Zeppelin la the
una one which waa reported over
' London during the . night, - When
aeen, It waa traveling alowly at a
groat height, plainly vlatble in the
clear, atarllt evening.
Tbousanda witneaaed the raid. At
8 p. m. the approach of a hostile
aky fleet waa signalled by watchers
on the northeast coast. The thea
ters were just filling, Crowds In
evening dress paused on the aldewalks
to view the spectacle. They - saw
British searchlights bathe the Zap
pelln with white light, then came
harp volleys from the batteries of
anti-aircraft guns, The spectators
appeared curious rather than alarmed.
A single ibomb klllod an entire
(family of three persons. Another de
molished two brlok cottages, but by
a seemingly miracle all occupants es
caped Injury. ! ' ' .
The night was Ideal for aerial op
.er&tlons. There waa no wind and.
only a light mist which did not
obscure the stars.
The Zeppelin wrecked off Thames
estuary Is the first to be destroyed on
the" English coast during a raid. It
Is the thirty-sixth to be "sunk" in
action, according to the official figures
of the1 allies.
! London, April 1. -Twenty-eight
were killed and 40 Injured by Zep
pelins .In their raid on England last
night, the admiralty announced to
day. ,
Two Zeppelin squndrans raided the
eastern counties, while a lone Zep
pelin visited the northeast region. ' A
total of 74 bombs were dropped. The
airship brought down in Thames es
tuary was sahi to have been one of
the 'Intent modols. v '" " "
DUTCH WILL PROBE-
l, London, April 1 The Dutch par
liament has summonod a special ses
sion for Sunday to consider the sink
ing of the Dutch liner Tubantla, sup
posedly by u German ; submarine,
Copenhagen despatches assorted .to
day. 1 The Dutch-German situation was
reported critical today, following a
meeting of the highest army ofllcers
and navy leaders, which lastod all
day ' yesterday. '' Railways were re
potted commandeered and furloughs
cancelled.
' Owing to the disablement of cables
by storms, it was Impossible to ver
ify these reports. AH despatches
wore sent via Copenhagen.
It was said the German mlnlstor
YjiA assured The Hague government
that a German submarine could not
have torpedoed the Tubantla.'
W. F. Gloeokner is spending Sun
day at Central Point, '
TUBANTIA
SI
MS SLATED AS
AMBASSADOR TO
TUSH EMPIRE
Berlin, April 1. President Wil
son will appoint Abraham I. Elkus,
New York attorney, as ambassador
to Turkey, to succeed Henry Mor
genthau, it waa stated In diplomatic
circles today.
Washington, April 1. Practical
confirmation of the United Press re
port from Berlin that diplomatic
circles there believed Abraham I.
Elkus, New York lawyer, would be
named ambassador to Turkey, waa
obtained today from a high admln
stratlon official., . Shown the dispatch
from Carl W. Ackerman, United
Press correspondent, this official
said: , n.
"If Henry Morgenthau decides to
resign, Elkus will almost undoubted
ly be asked to take the post."
Elkus Is well known for his par
ticipation in big public movement!.
He la president of the Hebrew Tech
nical School for Girls In New York,
and Is 45 years old.
. It is understood that Morgenthau
Is ambltloua to direct President Wil
son's campaign for re-election. .
RUSSIA!! HOSPITAL
TORPEDOED
Petrograd, April 1 -Two hundred
and fifty imen perished, Including
many wounded, when a German sub
marine torpedoed and sank the Rus
sian hospital ship Portugal In the
Black Sea, it was stated here today.
Count Tatlstcheff, Red Cross dele
gate,. Baroness -Mcyendorff and 14
other sisters of charity',' SO Russian
and 20 French medical corps mem
bers are among the missing.
The attack, It is declared, was
made without warning. A Red Cross
waa conspicuously displayed on the
side of the vessol and she waa lying
at anchor when two torpedoes were
hurled Into her hulk from a distance
of 60 yards. In one minute the Port
ugal had plunged to the bottom. As
she went down slightly injured men
and sailors mingled In a panto strug
gle on her decks and the wounded
lying helpless In their cots screamed
1n vain to be saved. . There were
158 survivors.
The Portugal was 444 feet long,
and had a gross tonnage of 5,653
tons. .
;
ESTIMATE SLAV
LOSSES AT 140,000
Berlin, April 1. Russian casual
ties the last four weeks In their of
fensive agalnBt Field Marshal von
Hlndenburg'a front were officially
estimated today as 140,000. . , J
On the western side, German avia
tors in a sky duel with French aero
planes shot down four enemy ma
chines. . . Two of them tell inside the
German lines, It was officially an
nounced. The artillery battle in ; the 'Xr
gonne forest and along the Meuse
continues. British grenade' and mine
attacks have been repulsed. .. t
The Russian offensive was de
clared to have apparently exhausted
Itself, temporarily at least, ;
"The Russians from February 28
to March 28 attacked large sectors
of Field Marshal von Hlndcnburg's
front with 80 divisions," said the
statement. "More , than B0O.OO0
Slavs made the assaults.1 The am
munition, expenditure was unprece
dented on the eastern side,; Thanks
to the bravory and tenacious' Indur
ance of German forces, the attacks
wore not successful."
Jack Allison and family sitent Sat.
urday at Rogue River.
P
REPORT SAYS THAT VILLA
HAS BEEN CAPTURED
General Gavira Announces That the Bandit Leader Has
Been Taken, But the Story Is As Yet Unconfirmed,
Though the American Troops Were Close Upon the
Heels of the Hunted Mexican and His Band
El Paso, April 1. Uneon Armed re
ports In circulation at Cblnuanua
City today said that the American
forces captured Francisco Villa near
Minaca yesterday. General Gavira
made the annoucemeut public, de
claring that the information came to
him from General Gutierre.""""The
latter also reported that telegraph
wires to Minaca were damaged ao It
was Impossible to confirm the story.
Gavira also made .public a report
from the commander of Chihuahua
state, received by telegraph, which
stated that Vtlllstas looted Guerrero
last Monday. When he looted Guer
rero, said the account, Villa waa flee
ing before Colonel George Dodd's cav
alry, which apparently overtook him
Wednesday.
The report that Villa, with 1,500
men, waa 50 mllea west of Chihua
hua City and marching to attack It,
was given no credence here. Consul
Garcia had no official dispatch throw
ing light on Villa's whereabouts. ,
; The rumor of Villa'a capture clim
axed a score of contradictory reports
which followed news of the San Ger
onlmo fight General Gavira and
Consul Garcia Joined in urging that
authorities at Chihuahua City make
every effort to get definite news.
Some reports said Villa went to
ward Minaca after fighting the Car
rantlstaa at Guerrero, and that he
murdered several foreigners at Min
aca. Villa was not seen at the San
Geronlmo ranch, according to these
accounts. It was thought possible
that Colonel Dodd had secured In
formation from captured Vlllastas
throwing light on their leader's place
of concealment and that he had Im
mediately set out to find him.
Fort BIIbs had no news, and of
ficers there regarded the rumors cf
Villa's capture as premature. '
El Paso. April 1 Desperately
wounded, Francisco Villa is believed
to be hiding today with the remnanta
of his defeated band In the fastnesses
of the continental divide. He is bud
posed to be somewhere south of San
Geronlmo. The names of American jgunrd and only one American aboard, nomination," said' Senator Galllnger
soldiers wounded In the five-hour , The only passenger train on the today. I have known It for months.
10-mlle running fight with the VII- Mexico Northwestern line has been But he wiU never succeed. The re
llstas are anxiously waited. Official I wrecked south of Pearson, but it is publicans will nominate a man who
reports said four United States'
troopers were wounded during the
battle while , the Seventh . cavalry
chased the bandits down the broad
valley at tho head of Rto Santa Mario.
Washington,' April 1. By. a vote
of 3 to 2 the sub-committee of the
senate Judiciary cbmmlttee today rec
ommended that the senate confirm
President Wilson's nomination of
SUraiJITTEEIECOOIJEIIOSTIE:
(WUATi OF BRA1EIS, JUDGE
Louis I), Brandels to the United been made, against him. ,
States supreme court bench. J This wos the assertion todoy of
The names of the senators voting '.his law partner, Edward McClennen,
for and against Brandels were re- when the senate sub-committee met
fused, but It was learned Cummins ( with four separate reviews of , the
and Works cast the adverse ballots. : testimony before them.
Works was more antagonistic to..' Senators Chilton, Walsh and Cum
Brandels than Cummins was. It had mlns are understood to favor recom
previously been reported that Cum- mending that the Benate confirm
mlns would vote In favor of making President Wilson's nomination of
the recommendation. Brandels. Senator Fletcher, now in
The sub-commltteo's recommenda- South America, left a proxy authorls
tlon will go to the senate judiciary lng his vote to be cast In favor of
committee Monday. It Is expected such a recommendation.
that the republicans will attempt to , Senator Works, however, Is oppos
rtolnv the recommendation to the sen- ed to Brandels. and wants to have the
'ate, or to indefinitely postpone It,
General Bell's Information was that
Villa was wounded fighting Car
ranxlstas at Guerrero. One bullet
waa said' to have' shattered his leg
while bis hip wax crashed by a fall
from his horse.
Villa's capture Is believed now to
be a matter of hours or days. Army
men discussed the probability of the
bandit dying without medical atten-
tlon, hidden away In some desolate
niouni&in cave who oniy a lew io-
lowers with him In big last momenta.
...... . i
Military experts hardly expect VfltaL
iv u.i mu, .u.vuc. .cwuu.
The clash with the Americana house by April 15.. -probably
Instilled in the hearts of his I Big navy, men will probably ask
bandlU a great fear of the "gringo"
troopers. The loss of Villa's two
machine guns la also thought to have
heen a hard blow. .
New of further akirmiahlng waa
momentarily expected. It was hoped
that Colonel George Dodd, whose!
vA.l- k lr.r.4 Villi-. !,'.
vestlgate the report that three for
eigners had been elaln at Minaca. ,
All the border region today prais
ed Colonel Dodd and his soldiers for
their exploit. It waa said that their
forced march of 55 mllea in 17 hours
to catch the fugitives napping waa
one of the moet commendable deeds
In the army records.
Reports that Villa has been cap- luncheon at which Robert Bacon,
tured have been current ever since former assistant secretary of state,
the battle. Consul Garcia denied one entertained Theodore ' Roosevelt,
which was attributed to Juares offl- Elihu Root and others In New York
clals. He reported that thousands yesterday was for the announced pur
of fresh reinforcements from-eastern Pw t discussing preparedness,
and central Mexico, had been concen- "Preparedness for what?", several
trated at Torreon to clean up all leaders asked, however,
banditry in that district Root Is the man whom the pro-
The first trainload of American gresalves accuse of having rushed
military auppllea has left Juarea over through the program whereby Rooee
the Mexico Northwestern lino. It in- elt WM defeated for the presidential
eluded five cars of oats, a car of sugar nomination at the republican conven
and five cars containing miscallane- tlon of 1912. The fact that Roose
oua goods owned and consigned to velt and Root lunched together gave
American Mormons at Colonio Dub- rise -to' a report that a mote was
lan and Casaa Grandes, who will sell ft to make Roosevelt the regular
them to the army. ' . republican candidate this year. ,, . ,
Mechanics spent an entire day re- "The luncheon was interesting.
pairing the locomotive before the
train started. There waa no military
expected that It will be put in com- can be elected. There Is a wide
mission again at once.'.?' , J : ' .spread feeling that. Roosevelt is not
When it arrives at Juarea It will
also be used for sending supplies to
the American expedition. ' ,.
Washington, April 1 Loula D.
Brandels, President Wilson's nom
inee for the United States supreme
court bench, will make no defense to
the charges of unfitness which have
appointment rejected. He claimed
DEMAIID OADE
F
Washington, April 1 Big navy
advocates on the house naval commit
tee today were planning to demand
that congress authorize construction
of eight first-line battleships this
.year, instead of the four which Sec
retary Daniels recommended. Pro
portionate increase In the number of
auxiliary vessels will also probably
be demanded. The plana of Con
gressmen Roberts, Butler, Britten
and Browning, baaed on recommen
dations made by the general navy
board of 1914 and 1915, will be pre
sented in the form of amendments
to the naval bill when the naval com
mittee meets for final drafting of the
measure after hearings are concluded
next week. . ';" .
They will Insist on 19,000 men
being enlisted as against Daniels'
'ramen(.atlori for a different nttm.
,... ,
1 , :', ''- .?..,.,. u.
iniuni cj.ytHa.eu lu tuuuuur uid
Monday m end
Wrin. Ch.lrmiltl PaIirtt
for four jreadnaughts and Tour battle
' cruisers the first year, and four first
Une warships yearly thereafter for
leMt flv Tears.' The ommttfee
it agreed on a continuous building
program. ; :
' ; j '
... ,1 r , ! 1 ,v , .. .
PREPAREDNESS WAS
TALK AT LUIiCHEOII
Washington; April 1. Republican
leaders today agreed that the
an1 now w r sure that the colonel
wil1 be candidate for the republican
that man.
"This means that the republican
party is drawing together," declared
Senator Polndexter. . "It will have a
patriotic and progressive platform
and a really progressive leader, very
likely, the colonel himself. Henry
Allen of Kansas, McCormick of Chi
cago and T. O. Disney of Ohio attend
ed the luncheon.' They are real pro
gresstves.",' ;"'. ' .'""- o 1 '. "i
Senator Borah said: h
."The meeting looks as if there
were preparedness tor peace as well
as for war within the party." '
Brandels was involved in several
transactions of doubtful ethics, which
had served to lower him in the bar's
respect. ' . '
The four reviews agree that moBt
of the opposition to Brandels eman
ates from financial centers in New
York and Boston. ; 1 .'
Cummtngs announced he would
tight for an open session of the Judi
ciary committee to which the sub
committee submits Its report Monday,
and that he would contend for an
open senate discussion of the nomin
ation." v . : . V " '.
J. B. Weldman went to Drain Sat
urday morning to spend a few weeks
with friends.
T
BATTLESHIPS
mm
Germans Stilt Attack to lie
East of;he Itee Rirer,
zzi New Drive Agshct
Avccc-rt Weeds Expectedl
London, April 1. Again shifting
hi attack to the Mease east bank:.
the German crown prince gained
a' foothold in the eastern outskirts
of Vaux village, Paris dispatches ad
mitted today.' - " '
' The messages also declared Ger
man artillery was conducting a ter
rific bombardment of the Malancourt
Bethinconrt salient. . y
'"The region west of the Mease
waa bombarded all night, but there
were no infantry operations. A car-
tain of lire from our artillery and
Infantry checked the German rush
at Vaux yesterday. ' 'V.-.-:
'Last night, disregarding their
losses, the Germans captured several
houses. Heavy artillery duels were
fought last night in the Argonne. 7
The French effectlTelr shelled rail
ways north of Haute Chevauche.
London;' April 1. German guns
are bombarding the Verdun-Paris
railway from Ayocourt woods, six
miles to the north, Paris dispatches
admitted today. It is believed this
is a prelude to a drive on the rail
road and a general assault north
west of Verdun.
Aeroplanes, escorted by armored
fighting air machines of the Fokker
type, are circling over the tracks.
signalling to the crown prince's gun
ners, ' giving the range and telling
the effect of the shots. , These craft
are constantly being attacked by
French flyers, which have succeeded
In driving them away several times.
The German capture of Malan-
court puts French forces west of the
Meuse In imminent peril.' The Ger
mans are expected to follow up their
present . advantage with massed at
tacks oh Bethincourt. Experts "be-
illeve the Teutons -will renew. the
smash against Avocourt woods as
soon , as sufficient artillery has been
brought up.
VILLA MASSACRES
THREE AMERICANS
El Paso, April 1. Three Ameri
cans, one British subject and one
German were massacred by Villistaa
at Guerrero and Minaca last Monday,
according to reports made fcy reliable
Americans arriving here from Chi
huahua City today. ' The news was
telegraphed to ! Chihuahua by : an
American named Locke, who escaped
the bandits at Minaca by fleeing to
Cuslbulrlachl, from which point he '
wired. ' '
The murdered men are Ben Snell,
Frank Woods, Dr. Stell, Bruce
and Herman Blankenburg, said the
reports. Snell and Woods are Amer
ican cattle buyers, who were said to
have been caught by Villa at Guer
rero and executed there. ' Stell,
Bruce and Blankenburg were exe
cuted at Minaca. : Bruce was a Brit
ish newspaper man; Stell a physician
for mining companies, and Blanken
burg, the German, a mine foreman.
Arts and Craft. ' '
The regular meeting of The Society
or Arts and Crafts will be held at
the home of Mrs. W. . S. Maxwell,
1030 Lawnrtdge avenue, on Tuesday,
April 4, at 2:30 p. m. The subject
of the program will be "Designs
Taken From Plant Life" and "Ani
mals In Design."
