First
Maui County Fair!
Nov. 30, Dec. 1 and 2
Boos! The
Maui County Fair
VOLUME XXIII.
WAILUKU, MAUI, T. II., MAY 10, 1916.
NUMBER 13
Utilities Board
To Demand Changes
County Assured Of
New High School
Electric And Telephone Companies Get
Probed- Better Service Will Be Re-
quired Findings To Be Announced
A numbpr of radical chanRes In the
management of tho affairs of the two
Maul electric companies Is prcsaped
by the investigations of the Public
Utilities Commission this week. The
commissioners also went Into the af
fairs of the Maul Telephone Company,
and some minor changes are likely to
be required of it also.
The investigations were made by
two members of the board. Chairman
Charles R. Forbes and A. J. Gignoux,
J. N. S. Williams, the other member,
not being able to present. H. P. O'
Sullivan, secretary of the board,
James L. Coke, attorney, and a steno
grapher were also of tho party. U.
C. Walker, an expert accountant, who
had been going over the books of the
companies for a week or two previ
ously, had the necessary records be
fore the board for consideration at
Monday's meeting.
There were not many complaints
made against the three companies, but
the commission went pretty thorough
ly Into the methods of each concern,
and summoned a number of witnesses
to give expert testimony on various
matters. The board found much to
object to in connection with the book
keeping methods of the Lahaina Elect
ric Company, though little fault was
found with the physical condition of
the plant, or with its service or rates.
Being an Incorporated concern, how
ever, even though it Is a subsidiary of
the Pioneer Mill Company, makes It
imperative that the books be kept In
dependently of the arger concern.
Island Electric Must Improve
The board will probably give the
Island Electric Company a reasonable
opportunity to increase the quality of
its Wailuku servire, and to build up
the efficiency of its plant, and then
it will probaby go into the matter
of better rates for consumers. Ac
cording to the board's findings, the
whole plant and equipment of the
company at the present time is ex
pensive and inefficient. As one mem
ber stated, the company has not been
making money at the rates charged
at present, but could never hope to
under present conditions. The board
found that steps have been taken to
better conditions, however, a large in
ternal combustion engine being at the
present time in process of erection,
which should reduce the cost of pro
duction very materially. Also, after
nearly a year without an expert elect
rician, the company has just secured
the services of such a man as super
intendent. The commissioners are
apparently of the opinion that the
Island EJectric Company should, under
proper management, furnish a tho
roughly satisfactory service at a mo
derate rate, and at the same time pay
a reasonable profit. The company was
represented at the investigation by
Attorney C. H. Olson, of Honolulu
Telephone Company Improving
The commission was apparently
quite favorably impressed with the
work being done by the Maui Tele
phone Company, in way of improving
its service. A part of Tuesday was
spent in going over the system and
inspecting the work now being done
The board will consider a number of
complaints regarding charter of ser
ice, and rule on them later. None of
the complaints were of very serious
character, but the board announced
that full weight will be given to all
Make Haleakala Trip
The members of the board accom
panied Chairman Forbes to Olinda, on
Tuesday afternoon, where the later,
as superintendent of public works
wished to look into Kula pipeline mat
ters, and later continued to the sum
mit or tne mountain, returning on
Wednesday morning. On Wednesday
afternoon an inspection of the pant of
the Iahaina Electric Company was
made, and the party left at 4 o'clock
for Hilo to go further into the matter
of the Hilo Electric Company. Before
leaving Maui it was announced that
transcripts of the testimony in Maui
matters will be prepared as soon as
possible, and that rulings will follow
as soon thereafter as possible. The
board also stated that the matter of
the conditions and hours of labor of
the Maui Telephone Company's em
ployes will be taken up and passed
upon as soon as the board returns to
Honolulu.
Generous Offer Accepted By Supervis
orsTwo New Sites Proposed
Work To Start Soon
As was to be expected, the supervis
ors, at their meeting last Saturday .ac
cepted with thanks the proffer ofH. W.
Rice and others to furnish $2"i,noo for
a new Maul high shool building, on
condition that the counly guarantee
to thoroushly equip the same. The off
er was made through School Commiss
ioner D. C. Lindsay. The county will
spend at least $5,000 as its part to
wards the new structure.
Big Carnival Plan
Of Church Workers
July 3rd Fixed Upon As Time For Un
ique Event RebuildingiOf St. An
thony's Is Object
For a number of years St. Anthony's
Catholic Church in Wniluku has been
most sadly in need of repairs, but this
has been postponed from time to time
until the safety of the congregation
Is somewhat jeopardized. A few
months ago Hoard of Health Inspector
J. Ii. Osmor visited the church, and
went up as far as the belfry, but. the
speed in which he descended testified
In fVin fnrt Dint Ills lifn linH been en-
It has not yet been fully determined dangp,!, n,l hP n,a,le the statement
whether or not the new building shall
be at Hamakuapoko, the site of the
present liigh school, or at I'aia, or
Spreckelsville. Sites have been off
ered at both of these last named places
and there is an effort being made by
some to have one or the other adopt
ed. The new building Is to be of con
crete, or of other fireproof construct
ion, and work on it will be started
very soon after the matter of site is
determined.
Iolokai Now Has
Quarrel Over Medicos
Molokai, the Island of feuds, is
again in the limelight. This time it is
quarrel between Dr. Hayes the
lovernment physician, and Dr. San
born, physician of the Molokai Ranch,
or friends of theirs. District Magist
rate C. C. Conradt appeared before
the supervisors last Saturday asking
that the $G0 allowed by the county
to Dr.. Hayes be divided with Dr. San
born, on the ground that the govern
ment doctor is not doing his business
properly. The supervisors decided to
investigate the matter, and Chairman
Kalama was charged with this duty
in conection with the board of health,
which is asked to also look into the
charges against Dr. Hayes. A report
of the situation will probably be made
at. next months meeting of the supervisors.
,oose Game Marks
Opening Of Ball Season
The first game of ball for the sum
mer season, played last Sunday he-
tween the Paia and the 1st Iiatallion
teams, was witnessed by a good crowd
but was far from being in the class of
fancy base ball. The score was 10
to 4 in favor of Paia. Keehu, pitcher
and Bal, catcher of the soldiers were
both taken out in the 6th inning and
Hansen and Pombo substituted; while
about the same time Sterling was re
lieved by Robinson on the Paia team.
The game next Sunday is between
Puunene and the 1st Batallion.
Departments Of BiglpAST WORK ON FLEET
Fair Decided Upon
Men Named Who Will Head Sub-Committees
Much Enthusiasm In
Work Big Flower Show Planned
The Kuiaha Woman's Club meeting
which was postponed on account of
stormy weather, was held at the home
of Mrs. H. M. Wells, last Thursday
The presence of member of visitor
from Haiku and Paia added to the
pleasure of the afternoon.
The Maui Cadets, of Paia, spent
last Saturday night and Sunday camp
ing in Iao Valley. The boys were in
charge of Sergeant Wetzel, U. 8. A
aim nan a line tune, doing their own
cooking, and generally looking out for
themselves.
ClarenceO. White, It is understood.
has sold all his property in Maui, in
eluding his Kahului beach house, to
Harold W. Rice, and will leave some
time in June, with his family for the
Coast where they will make their fut
ure home. The Whites have been rest
dents of Maui for the past 10 12 years,
and have made a host of friends who
will see them leave with much rgret
Mr. White is one of the pioneer pine
apple growers of Maui, being eminent
ly successful in that line.
Mrs. J. C. Villiers will give an
organ recital in the church of the Good
Shepherd, on Tuesday evening, May
23rd. She will be assisted by the
Choir, and Messrs. H. W. Baldwin, C
D. Lufkin, and D. Rattray. The re
cital is for the benefit of the British
Red Cross, and the Order of St. John
in other words is for the benefit of
wounded soldiers of all nationalities;
an object which should call out the
practical sympathies of all in the com
munity. The hour of the recital Is
8:00 o'clock.
The petition of John F. Camara for
dissolution of partnership from An
tone Maria, was referred yesterday
by Judge Edings to V. C. Sehoenberg,
as master to investigate. Camara
wants the partnership dissolved, the
automobile in which both he and Ma
ria are interested, sold, and the pro
ceeds divided, and himself allowed
$50 In addition. His partner opposes
this, claiming that Camara owes him
several hundred dollars.
Judge Edings yesterday denied the
petition of C. D. Lufkin, guardian of
Kalani Kaniuhele, a minor, to sell
certain real estate. The court held
that the guardian failed to show a
satisfactory necessity for the sale, in
t hat the property is already producing
about 6 percent. The guardian was
represent el by If, ;II. C'ae, while
Eugene Murphy appeared a next
friend of the ward.
that, if it had been within his juris
diction he would condemn the build
ing. This church was build some for
ty or fifty years ago by Father Leon
ore and a number of Ilawaiians, and it
has stood all those years a monument
to the patience and Christian spirit
of the Hawaiian of years ago. How
ever, it. Is now absolutely necessary
that practically a new church be built ;
the congregation has out grown the
church building, and the standing
room only sign is too often in
evidence, to say nothing of the shaky
condition of the tower of the edifice.
With this in view, Father Justin,
in charge of the parish, has given
much time and thought, and has had
plans prepared for a practically new
church building. It is estimated that
this will cost from $14,000 to $15,000.
A meeting of his parishioners was
called some weeks ago, and organiza
tion was effected with the object in
view of raising funds for the purpose.
At this meeting J. Garcia was ap
pointed general chairman, the other
general officers being J. II. Kunewa,
vice-chairman; Hannah E. Robinson,
secretary; and Rev. Father Justin,
treasurer. The chairman appointed
various sub-committees, the chairmen
of which are: J. II. Kunewa, enter
tainment; Thomas Dunn, advertizing;
Rev. Father Justin, finance; Mrs. J.
Garcia, bazaar; Clement Crowell, de
corations; P. E. Pereira, illumina
tions; F. Medeiros, Portuguese; Chas.
Lake, Hawaiian.
These committees have all met and
outlined the work in hand, prepara
tory for a big show which will come
off on July 3rd, on which date a most
elaborate program will be carried out.
In the meantime the entertainment
committee, headed by Mr. Kunewa,
has gone ahead with several enter
tainments, and have given those for
tunate enough to have attended, a
treat in the way of entertainment.
This committee intends to have their
talent show a few more times prior
to the big show on July 3rd. The big
celebration, however, (on July Hid,
will be something not. heretofore ex
perienced on Maui. Entertainment of
alll sorts are being planned; fireworks
galore will brighten the skies, While
exhibits of value will be for sale.
There will be something to keep
everyone interested. Chairman Garcia
is assured that the affair will be some
thing unusual. The cause is a worthy
one, and the workers are confident of
the financial success of the big show.
Everybody will be welcome at the
grounds, and it is the intention of
the general committee to see that val
ue received is given for every nickel
spent.
The ladies of the church are also
giving much time and effort to the
entertainment. The affair will be held
either at the school grounds, or pos
sibly at the baseball grounds, if it. ran
be obtained. A general meeting of the
Chairmen of the different committees
has been called for next Sunday, at
which time most of the details will be
completed.
As a result of two long and Inter
esting meetings, one held last Friday
afternoon and the other on Monday
foreman of this wl'cjk, tlie Maul Coun
ty Fair may now be considered fairly
launched. Some IS departments have
been created, and a chairman named
for each. While there will be possibly
otheis created from time to time, it
is quite certain that the framework
of the organization has been wel
constructed, and that from now on the
work of getting ready for the big event
will go on rapidly.
The chairmen of the different di
visions are empowered to build up
their committees as they see fit, and
to subdivide the work as may be best.
They will have the entire responsibil
ity of the success of their part of the
show, except, that the general com
mittee will pass on the more import
ant matters.
The different sections and the chair
man in charge of each are as fol
lows :
Livestock and animal husbandry
Horses, cattle, Mules, Sheep, Hogs,
etc., D. T. Fleming, Chairman.
Poultry and domestic animals
l nicKens, turkeys, geese, pigeons,
birds, dogs, etc., W. F. rogue, Chairman.
Agronomy Field crops, sugar cane,
pinenpples, etc., F. G. Krauss, Chairman.
Hortir-ullure Fruits and vegetab
les, T). n. Case. Chairman.
Floral culture Flowers and shrubs,
James Lindsay, Chairman.
Forestry Dr. Fitzgerald, Cair-
man.
Manufactured agricultural products
A. McIMiee, Chairman.
Domestic science and arts W. J.
Cooper, Chairman.
Agricultural engineering Wm.
Searhy, Chairman.
Educational Schools, Wm. McClus
ky, Chairman.
Kr.ilth and sanitation Dr. Wm. Os-
mers, Chairman.
Buildings and grounds Conces
sionsslons, decorations, illumina
tions, R. A. Wadsworth, Chairman
Amusements and entertainments
J. Garcia, Chairman.
Advertizing and publicity Edwin C,
Moore, Chairman.
Awards and prizes F. A. Clowes,
tnairman.
nuance D. C. Lindsay, Chair
man.
iransportation Wm. Walsh, Chair
man.
General manager F. H. Locev.
Dr.W.D.Baldwin was made a member
of the executive committee as a re
presentative of the Boy Scouts of
Maui, while J. H. Kunewa. A. K. Tinir.
and Manuel de Rego, were also added
to represent respectively the Hawaiian
Chinese, and Portuguese nationalities
of the Island. Chairman Wadsworth
stated that the Japanese would prob
iioiy nominate a man to represent
iiieni ry the time of the next meeting
tverypody may Help
It is probable that the plantations
on Maui will be asked to pay a small
amount necessary to purchase irnnlen
and flower seed for distribution among
(continued on pnge 5)
Alexander House Notes i
The Girls' Club is to play an exhibi
tion game of basket ball in the Gym
nasium tonight which will lie followed
by dancing. The Gymnasium orchestra
will furnish the music. This promises
to be un unusually interesting game.
The two teams under Miss Mary Hart,
captain of one side and Miss Naomi
Robinson, of the other, have been hard
at work getting ready for the Palama
game in June and are very evenly
matched.
Last night at Boy Scouts' Night the
attendance of boys reached a new
level with fifty boys present. Not all
of these boys are Scouts but the num
ber of Scouts is growing. Troop III
with Herbert Young, Scoutmaster, is
having the record attendance.
A May Tea will be given on the
lawn of the Alexander House on Sat
urday afternoon of next week. May
27lh. from 4:00 to 5:00 o'clock. There
will be music and your choice of the
menu for 15 cents. Have a table
secured and bring a guest with you.
All proceeds will go to the Gymnasium
painting fund.
The new Men's Club held its regular
meeting at the Gymnasium Wednes
day evening with a l ine hi tendance.
New Tennis Tournament
- Begins At Puunene
Twenty-six members of the Puunene
Athletic Club have been engaged dur
ing the past two weeks in a tennis
tournament, the play being for a hand
some neiv cup offeied by the Club.
The following rames have been play
ed:
1. t Baldwin vs. Wm. Lougher
i.--', t-J: il. E. Hughes vs. C. C. Camp
nell. 0-x, u-2. 2-0 ; Dr. Young vs A
Me. Mcoll, 4 fi, .Tfi; J. S. B. Macken
zie vs. A. Maclaren, 1-6, 7 5, -::;
11. Pratt vs J. B. Thomson. 3 . 2-ii
lr. Sawyer vs. W. A. Baldwin, 61
i-2; Geo. Mtirrav vs. Fred Cow
fi-3. 6-4; H. A. Hansen vs. W.
vtaiuer, Y-f., David Jiatlray vs
It. It. Walker, 2 6, 5 7: E. F. Dciner
vs. W. E. Engle, 5 7. 6-2, 6-3.
Alter a halt hour spent in gymnastic
the two teams known as the "W hites'
Awaiw, captain, and the "Blues", Ak
una, captain, lined up for a relay race,
The Whites won by a narrow margin
Later In the evening these two teams
tried their band at volley bull and in
this the "Whites" were also successful
Both teams show plenty of enthus
iasm; the "fllues" under Akuna hav
already secured iheir Gynin uniforms
Next week they expect to have a diff
erent story to tell when the figures for
the evening's scores are counted up
DEMANDED BY HOUSE
Reorganization Of Personnel Also On Foot Itali
ans And Austrians Again Grappling
- Little Change At Verdun
HONOLULU. May 19 Citizens organize to trame charter tor
. . ... i " t I ....1 ..1....:-.-...,i rf mmniittt1!'
imitucij lattty. I'ormcr governor r rear eieneu . n.iu umi. v....
:om ciic organizations. I residing olhcir outlines pontics mu uos
inftrtes that in framing constitution for city, tin- legislature must ic
insidered.
(hiecn's Hospital Lcirins the improving of the entire equipment.
xeceiT't of splendid X-rav apparatus signals installation of fine depart-
ment. Other innovations include screened warns uuu a imS ,....
harges will he higher.
The cruiser St. Lotus soon to come here. 1 wo destrojers ex
acted to he added to Hawaiian hase at Pearl Harbor.
TOKIO, May 19 Yuan's slaver kills great conferee of Sun Yet
Sen. Gen. Sluing Ki, friend and intimate of the Chinese ni.eraior,
s victim of assassin's bullet in French concession. Chinese re-
ublicans of Honolulu shocked. Col.-Gcn. W udan pays high tribute to
ead revolutionist and says he was one of the noblest figures in China.
result of assassination, French authorities redoubled their guard
over Sun Yet Sen.
LONDON', May 19 Italians hit hard blows and leutons are
becked. Italians hurl enemv back everywhere. Massed attacks ot
vustrians are countered with terrific thrusts and artillery fire that
crushed legions.
W ASHINGTON, May 19 President rushes lrom theatre where
was spendinsr evening to prevent .execution of Jeremiah Lynch,
ormer president of Philo-Ccltic Society in New York. Lynch was
tried and convicted of taking part in the Irish rebellion. Was a na-
ralizcd citizen, and when news reached Senator Otiorman he and the
'resident cabled olheials m Ireland and Umdon to try to prevent tne
xecution. The intervention saved life of Lynch.
Revenue is larger than estimated. Prosperity and conservation
, -it, e . . i ,
increases limits available tor prcpaicumss pioi.un.
Raiding in l'.altic resumed by Allies. 3 German steamers sunk by
ritish and Russians.
Australian wheat crop to be marketed by pool.
Wheat crop estimated at PiO.OOO.CMX) bushels. Australian gov
ernment has decided to form a pool for marketing such surplus as is not
needed by Allies.
WASHINGTON, May 18 House committee today voted down
year program for battle cruisers for fleet. The committee recom-
mends 3 name cruisers oi u,uuu tons cato, t muui uuuuj ji divij
and powerful design; 10 destroyers, and 20 submarines, with various
utxiliary vessels to be built by end ot 191.
Germany, through Ambassador Lount von liemstorit, instructed
lermati counsul in the United States, to admonish Germans scrupul
ously to observe American laws. The instructions given in effort to
nd various alleged violations of neutrality, liermany is taking stand
igainst plots of the sort.
Reorganization of the Atlantic tleet being worked, includes re
tirement of Admiral I-rank S. Metcher, commandcr-in-cluet of tleet,
in June 19. Will be succeeded by Vice-Admiral Henry 1. Mayo,
ommander of battle ship squadron and commander ot nrst division
leet at present. Rear-Admiral deW itt ColTman, commanding 3rd
division of Atlantic fleet to succeed Mayo as vice-admiral.
Resolution introduced in house today authorizing President, at
conclusion of present war, to invite world powers to conference at
which would be framed court of arbitration tor the peace tul settlement
of all disputes between nations. 1 he sum of 8200,000 to be voted lor
urpose.
lll'.RLIN. Mav 18 Three French attacks on German positions on
Hill 301 repulsed. 'Austrians are pushing their offensive against Italian
Hank in whirlwind manner. Italians are tailing back.
PARIS, Mav 18 French claim success in capturing lierman post-
lion on slope at Hill 304. Germans made attack at Verdun front but
were repulsed.
HONOI LI U May 18 Honolulu wins point in iracie lor tne
o . -.i . i..: :.i. .,'.,
luture. l" oretgn vessels may can wiuioui imii'ij i"g un i'w. j
law regulation. ill be allowed to take coal and supplies, inaniuer oi
Commerce's action gets speedy response from Secretary Kedheld.
Japanese whose patient died a year ago is nabbed by Uetective
Lake Waipahu man arrested on charge ot illegal practice, wcatn saiu
to have occurred last July. Coard of Health president planned action
last December, he says.
Hawaiian stock should be high, estimates show. Unusual set ot
ures made public to prove big dividends in 1916 justified. Planta-
. , 11. . 1 ...... t1.n.. On , .f trill
Hons will not reduce cash naiance. inn.i mim uum s1-" i
over 1915 sugar prices rolls in as profits. Dividend from Msl'.ryde
fixed at 50 cents per share, payable June 25.
LONDON, May IS Italy loses ground she has seized from teuton
foes. Austrians drive Roman cohorts out of trenches on Isonzo River
front, but are balked by forceful stand at Sugana.
Zegnatorta wrested by assault from Italians.
Russians reports fresh successes against Turks at lines near Gag
dad railway. Allies announce victory on Greek front.
W ASHINGTON, May 18 8(X) Yaqui Indians go on war-path.
They start from Toneon with avowed intention of wiping out Yankees.
Colonel Sibley may have to fall back. Indians, together with Villistas
left Torreon 3 days ago.
S. F. Seifer, rancher, who brought news of Indian uprising, also
says that Carrauza commands have joined with Villistas with intention
of wiping out Gringocs. No official confirmation of report received
bv Siblev.
GF.NKVA. May 18 German soldiers big for meat on Swiss
border. They declare food situation in Rhine country is desperate.
LONDON, May 18 Sir Roger Casement is charged with high
treason. Premier Asquith member of Irih privy council.
LONDON, May lS-l'.iitish monitor M-30 is sunk by Ottomans.
Two members of crew wounded.
I.OX'ODt N. May 17 Dutch steamer "I'.atavia" blown up in
North Sea enmute London to Rotterdam, l'.ritish Ambassador here
learned that l.ugi Nanint, wireless expert, was a passenger ami was
drowned when disaster occurcd. He was an American citicn. Other
Americans rescued.
m
