HOLDS FIRST PRIZE OF KENTUCKY PRESS ASSOCIATION A8 BEST EIGHT-PAGE WEEKLY IN KENTUCKY
FOR -Weak
Lungi .
Chert Cold
Bronchitis or
Throat Trouble
CcoiVa
Emulsion
; Is very reliable.
-, TraU-Muk
BIO
'J 1) furutM
Cos U
OiL
Always Shun "
Inferior Substitute
Au,t inveniam viam, aut faciam.
Volum. XXXI. Numbar 88.
LOUISA, LAWRENCE COUNTY, KENTUCKY, MAY 19, 1916.
M. F., CONLEY, Publisher.
SAN1D)
4
EOF COLLINS DENNY
. HAD LARGE AUDIENCE
WONDERFUL SERMON PREACHED
AT LOUISA BY EMINENT DI
VINE FRIDAY NIGHT.
r
A very large and Intelligent audience
assembled at the court houiie In thla
city on tha evening of Friday, May 12,
drawn thither by tha announcement
that the Ilev. Colllna Denny, Bishop of
tha M. JS. Church, Houth, would preach.
1 1 la) reputation had preceded him and
hla audience which expected great
things of hlra waa not disappointed.
Anything finer In aimoat every reepect
-vaa seldom. If ever, heard within thoaa
ir walla. 1 "receded by the uaual re
1 ma services Ilia hop Denny read, we
Jn going U aay, but we will any re
futed the flrat ten veraea of the alxth
Chapter of Gelations. When he had
flnlahed theaa he aald ha would apeak
from tha tenia vera which la aa fol
lower "As wa have therefore oppor
tunity, let ua do good unto ail, espec
ially unto them who are of the house
hold of faith." .
He then began In a conversational
manner In a voice low pitched and well
nodulated, and so clearly waa every
word, every ayllable enunciated that
with no aeeming effort on the speak
era part It reached to the f unheal
and of tha big room which la not die
tlngulahed for Ita fine acouatle prop
erties. He apoka of the measure of
man. Speaking of various measures,
however, before thla aa for Instance,
there were measures of wheat and oth
er gralna and of eome other things the
standard of which waa the pound; then
of coal which la measured by the ton
which la simply an aggregation of
pounds; then of tha measure which we
call the yard, and measures of liquids.
He aald that while those things were
tha standards of measurement no one
would think when ht asked for a bush
el of something of letting that article
alone when picking up the bushel
measure. In other words of taking the
measure Inatead of the article bought.
Ha aald these things were m
menu of Inanimate things. When it
came to the measurement of a man, al
together a different standard waa used.
, To measure a man by what ha was
worth In dollars was by no means a
sale measurement or standard. The
speaker passed, step by step, and very
logically, to tha consideration of the
pro position hinted at In the Clalallana
verse which formed tn basis for his
sermon and that la, that we should do
good as we have opportunity. That we
owed It to Qod and humanity to do
that very thing. Ha luid down thla
proposition that we are Indebted to the
living, to tha dead and to thoae yet un
born. That wa are Indebted
to the dead as well aa to tha living la
readily admitted by all. that la by all
who think rightly and who are not
selfish enough to think that what we
are and what wa have la due to our
selves alone. To demonstrate the truth
of tha proposition that wa are Indebted
. to the unborn aa well aa to the living
and to the dead la not so easy. Doubt
less many of his hearers had never
thought of thla phase of the subject.
but the proposition and Ita truth was
an clearly argued and demonstrated by
' the hamed Itlshop that all who were
ao fortunate as to hear him must have
fallen In with the truth of what he so
ably proved. One very Interesting and
let us say entertaining feature of this
part of the discourse wss his Illustra
tions concerning the Uvea of distin
guished men, living and dead, who had
aa It were, emptied themselves for the
good of their fellows. Beginning with
some of the long departed ones, emin
ent old time worthies, he Instanced
Thomas Button afterwards Sir Thorn
aa Button having been knighted by the
king for hla successful attainments In
the law and for the great school that
he established with hla gains. A fine
example of those who worked and
fought for others waa the famous Eng-
nan general liaveluck, whose nameJ
will live forever aa one who did so
much for the suppression of the Sepoy
mutiny lit British India In 1857. The
Itlshop did not aay so, but a foollHh
order made by the British government
concerning cartridges that were then
used In the muaketa of the East In
dian troops caused the mutiny or a re
volt, followed by some of the most hor
rible massacres of which history tells.
Bishop Denny's description, which
must have been drawn from what he
had been told by eye witnesses of some
of the terrible scenes, waa vivid In the
extreme. When the massacre at Cawm
x pore was over tha little room In which
.he white refugeea were butchered was
Inches deep In blood. A golden curl
which probably had been severed from
the head of a little child had been pin
ned upon the wall, a pitiful reminder
that a child perhaps In Ita mother's
arms had been massacred. And again
at Lucknow that ancient city on a
tributary of the Qangea where others
of the British troops and their wlvea
and children had made a final atand
for days and days the soldiers stood
off many times their number of mad
dened Sepoys. Tha women In the mean
time with their children huddling in
their arms fearing death In Ita moat
hurrlhle form. When hope had almost
vanished a Scottish servant girl, kneel
ing by the aide of her mistress, had
with quick ear caught what she
thought to be a sound made by the
firing of British muskets. She whlap.
red her hope to her mistress and was
told "Nay, Jennie, It can na be." but
again the girl with her ear to the
ground heard another sound and spring
coming"! which was true. Iluvelock i
and his Highlanders were Indeed com-,
lug and In time to save the garrison
and Its Inmates. This Is but one of the
many fine examples of heroism on the
part of those who lived and wrought
for others.
By way of contrasting the selfish
man and him who thought of others
beside himself Bishop Denny first told
In most beautiful language of the Dead
Hoa, Its surroundings. Its mountains.
Its tributaries, Its peculiar contents In
which no thing could live beyond a
few minutes, the very fish which were
sometimes carried Into ita dreadful
depths by the overflow of other streams
perished aimoat Immediately. - Every
thing waa poured Into It. nothing pour
ed out. He contrasted this with the
mysterious Nile which in Its whole
course of 2400 miles was unceasingly
contributing growth and life. Without
U Africa would be one vast desert In
atead of being as It Is all along the
Nile one huge granary. Billions and
billions of bushels of wheat had been
grown along lis banks and had given
bread to millions and millions of peo
ple. This It hasi done and continues
to do until It reaches the delta at the
Mediterranean not much more than a
narrow thread. The contrast was a very
striking one. understood and appre
ciated by all who heard him. These
things which we have attempted to put
before our readers did not constitute
one-tenth part of that which the Bish
op said to carry horns the truth of his
contention. As a sermon the Bishop's
effort waa a masterpiece viewed from
every point. Profound In thought, bril
liant In conception, almost perfect In
Ita diction it made something eminently
worthy of tha cultured Christian min
ister who delivered It.
Bishop Denny Is a southern man,
born In the stormswept battle ravaged
valley of the Shensnduah. The storms
which swept It were not battles of the
elementa but of the contention between
the two armies of our lute very Un
civil -war. When asked incidentally In
conversation where ha lived bs aald
half Jocularly and half pathetically,
"My Wife Uvea In "Richmond. Va.. and
whenever In my travels which 1 make
as a Bishop I get near to Richmond
call and see her." He went from here
to I'alntsvllle where he preached twice
on Sunday last.
LAWRENCE COUNTY
ACQUIRES RiVER BRIDGE
c.
AO. STRUCTURE AT THREE
MILE PASSES INTO HANDS
OF COUNTY.
Larwence county has accepted as a
gift the abandoned C. ft O. railroad
bridge at Three Mile and will floor it
and put on side guards and convert It
Into a county bridge. The offer came
through Laud Holt and Jay H. Northup.
The county court has appointed re
viewers to locate a road leading from
the bridge, on the west side of the riv
er, to a connection with the Lick creek
county road. Then the question of
rights of way will have to be aettled,
and the route selected for the new road
will depend largely upon the results In
this Important matter.
The bridge spans Levlsa fork of Big
Sandy liver three miles south of Lou
isa and has been auperceded by a new
railroad bridge built a short distance
south of the old one. The railroad
made a nominal price on the structure.
which originally cost 150.000 or more.
STATUS OF EMPLOYER
DEFINED BY CALDWELL.'
Frankfort, Kyi, "May 7. The oft re
peated question of the status of the
employer aa to legal defense in case
both he and his employe had rejected
the Workmen's Compensation Act, has
been answered by R. C. Caldwell, chair
man of the Compensation Board. Alex
ander Gllmour, of Louisville, secretary
or tne Dourd, has been asked the ques
tion 'so many times by the working--
m,n r.f T ... . i .1 1 1 . 1. . . l. .a . . .
a definite opinion In regard to this inat- 1faratI0a.1Sprl"fL N: T" May '
tor Caldwell said- (The unification of the Methodist Epls-
"Thls is a favorite moot question I J? ?"rh, a"d ,'ne Modist Epis-
suggestod by some lawyer or other " r" .JL"
DDIS. CHURCHES
PROBABLY WILL UNITE
NORTHERN BRANCH VOTES TO
ACCEPT PROPOSAL OF
SOUTHERN BODY.
most unanimously by the Methodist
General Conference to-day. The con
ference adopted the report of the Com
mittee on Unification, which provides
for further negotiations with the South
ern Church, paving the way for final
not orovld. for . iln .n4 .-uon uy me general uonrerence or
ur.ni.nm e e.i . ... " 'ZT Southern Church in 1918, and by
person at every discussion of the act
and doubtless has very seriously im
pressed such laymen as have heard It.
As a matter of fact, however, the hy
pothetical situation can not possibly
arise for the reason that the law does
acceptance or rejection of Its provis
ions. What the law does provide is
that the employer must make the first
move alone. If he rejects, then he for
feits his common law defense against
my employe who sues him. No employs
could accept the act If the employer
has rejected It.
On the other hand. If the employer
accepts the act, then for the first time
turned down on the side will form
solid, floor about six Indies thick. It
will give a much needed outlet for the
people In that vicinity and for miles up
on the east side of the river. It Is ex
perted that this work will proceed
without unnecessary delay,
The reviewers are Wm. Carey, Hiram
Layne and B. J. Calloway.
MRS. HERR 8UCCEEDS
MR8. LILLIE MEEKINS.
CLOSE ON TRAIL OF BLUE STEEL.
C. A O. Special Officer U T. Johnson
hss returned from Ohio, where be went
to get "Blue Steel." whose whereabouts
had been tipped off to the officers by
"Roadsport," when ha made hla con
fesalon last week. .
When Johnson arrived. In -the city
named by "Roadsport" "Blue Steel'
waa found to have gone elsewhere. It
Is believed, however, that his arrest Is
a question of but a few daya
Mr. Johnson went to Frankfort thli
afternoon to have a talk with "Road
sport" and learn from hlra some fur
ther Information desired. Ashland In
dependent.
DEATH OF MRS. ELIZA
O'BRIEN THURSDAY
VENERABLE LOUISA WIDOW AN
8WE.RS FINAL SUMMONS
AFTER LONG ILLNESS.
rs. r.nta. o Bnen died at noon
Thursday of this week at her home In
Louisa, after an Illness extending over
several months. Her death was not un
expected, aa the case was considered
critical.
The funeral will take place on Satur
day morning at 10:20 o'clock, at the
residence.
Deceased waa the widow of Judge
James H. O'Brien, who died Sept. 7,
1914. Four daughters and one son sur
vive. All were present when the moth
er died.
Mrs. O'Brien was about (5 years old.
Her maiden name was Vanhorn.
A more extended notice will appear
in our next Issue.
Mr. Dwtght Guerln, of Zanesvllle, O..
sang at both services held by the M. K.
Church. South In the court house on
Sunday last. Ha la the fortunate pos
sessor of. a beautiful tenor voice which
Shows a hlL-h rtnm, nt lnl.llln...i
Ing to h J feet exclaimed "Dlnna ye tlvatton. He Is a brother of Mr. Guer
hear the slogan? The Campbella are 'in. of tha U. 8. Engineer office.
BURNED TO DEATH.
Miss Maude daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Andy Amyx. of near Dellort, aged
about 18. was so badly burned Tuesday
morning that she died In the afternoon.
She was working at an incubator when
the lamp exploded and the flaming
kerosene covered her clothing and be
fore the flames could be extinguished
she was fatally burned. A brother and
sinter who went to her assistance were
severely burned about the hands and
arms, but were unable to extinguish
the flames in time to save the unfor
tunate girl. " v
Miss Maude was lovable and popu
lar young lady and the news of her
tragic death will be a terrible shock to
her friends. Licking Valley Courier.
TABERNACLE SERVICES.
On next Sunday, arternoon, at 2:80
o'clock, the Rev. U E. McEldowney.
pastor of the M. E. Church, South, this
city, will preach at the Bethel Taber
nacle. Thla will be a good opportunity
for our friends In that part of the coun
ty to hear Mr. McEldowney. Ha goes
there at the solicitation of many resi
dents of that section, and none should
fall to hear him.
MR. DWIGHT GUERIN.
The Ilea are ' on Airm onrl when the employe COO exercise hlS election.
ii no aiso accepts, men Dotn are under
the act and compensation liability Is
accordingly aubstituted for previously
existing right of action at law. If,
nowever, following the employer's ac
ceptance the employe does not accept
and Join with him then such an era
ploye. If retained in hla employment.
could sue the employer In the event of
Injury, but the employer would have
restored to him in such a suit all the
common law defenses that be enjoyed
before the passage of this act, and the
status of both plaintiff and defendant
In court would be exactly what It Is
now.
"The above situations are covered
by sections 72 and 74 of the Com pen
sation Act. There Is. however, a minor
exception to this general rule in the
provision of paragraph 2 of section 1
in which a. concurrent acceptance of
the act la authorised for non-subject
employers and their employes. Our
foregoing opinion is intended to apply
to all other cases.
This opinion is the first to bo given
by the Compensation Board.
From the Ashland Independent.
The Picayune Tlmea of Monday, May
2th, contains a splendid picture of Mrs.
Emily Walker Herr, who has often vis
ited In this city at the home of her sis
ter, Mrs. W. F. Shlpman and with the
picture la the following article that will
be read with Interest by Mrs. Herr's
friends.
From society to service Is not such
a great atep. after one Is truly con
verted', according to Mrs. Emll Walk
er Herr, who waa sent to New Orleans
by the Methodist Board of Missions to
take charge of the Mary Werlein Mis
sion and to fill the vacancy there made
by the death of Mrs. Lillie Meek Ins,
who had. charge of the work seventeen
years. '$...
Mrs. Herr knows society and she
knows service, and has concluded to
devote her time and talents to the
latter. As Emily Walker, the daughter
of tha Rev. Hiram Pearce Walker a-d
as wife of Dr. L. Herr, of Kentucky,
society laid first claim to her time. Af
ter six years of widowhood, however,
Mrs. Herr took up Journalism and
wrote for newspapers of New York and
irie Cosmopolitan and other magazines.
It was when aha was most active In
this work that the first Woman's Press
Club of Kentucky putatlon as a poli
tical writer ahe was made enrolling
clerk of the Kentucky Senate in 189S.
SUPERINTENDENTS MUST
GIVE ALL TIME TO SCHOOLS.
Frankfort, Ky, May 1. County su
perintendents In the future will not be
permitted to "carry any aide lines,
State Superintendent Gilbert said to
day that It has come to his ears that
some superintendents are not devoting
their whole time and energies to school
affairs, but are engaged in private en
terprlnes. He said that investigations
will be made and those who are not
devoting their entire time to the in
terests of the schools will be required
to resign or give up their outside bus
iness.
BABY IS KILLED, UNDER PIANO.
To be crushed to death underneath
piano which toppled off a moving
van. was the fate Wednesday afternoon
at Ceredo of little Maxlne Perdue, age
three years, daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Arnold Perdue. Mr. Perdue Is a well
known engineer on the Norfolk ft Wes
tern railroad. "He was preparing to
move from Ceredo to Portsmouth, O.
Workmen were loading the piano In
to the wagnifwhen somehow the heavy
case slipped and before the child was
noticed or Jerked to'safety. fell to the
ground, pinning the Infant underneath.
DIVIDEND PAIP BY
BUSSEYVILLE OIL COMPANY
INJURIES TO CHILD FATAL.
CaUeUsburg. Ky, May 18. A 12
year-old:, daughter of Spot Malloy, of
Laurel creek, while playing at the home
of her aunt, Wednesday eveningjtumb
led and fell across the sill of door In
juring nexseir internally and was
brought to the office of Dr. Obllnger
yesty for treatment but died a few
hours later at Hardin Hotel. The re
mains were taken- to the undertaking
establishment of Kllgore and Collier.
This is a sad occurrence and much pity
la felt for the bereaved parents.
INCREASES CONTINUE IN
OIL FIELDS OF KENTUCKY
FOUR MONTHS OF 1916 FAR SUR
PASS DEVELOPMENT OF
LAST YEAR.
The Busseyville Oil ft Gas company
paid ita first dividend to stockholders
this week. The amount was five per
cent. It Is expected that each month
will bring this amount or more to the
share holders.
The long deferred dividend was wel
comed heartily. The company haa had
considerable Indebtedness up to this
time, on account of wells drilled, and
all proceeds were applied to discharg
ing the debts before any dividends were
paid. The capital stock la only 25000
and therefore the dividends are large
when expressed In percentage.
JORDAN BOY SENT
TO CHILDREN'S HOME.
Barbourville. Ky, May 14. A greater
showing in Kentucky petroleum opera
tions was made during the first four
months of this year than the entire
year preceding. During the four months
a total of 151 completions, with a new
production of nearly 3.000 barrels daily,
was shown. The year preceding show
ed a total of 194 completions and a new
daily production of leas than 1,000 bar
rels.
The April record of completed work
shows continued gains, with forty-one
completions, six failures snd a new
production of 981 barrels. This was a
gain over the figures of the preceding
month of three completions and 200
barrels. '
The past week in the Kentucky fields
was featured by no wells of lar ca
pacity. but an unusually large numtier
of fair-sixed strikes was made. Estiil
county heads the list with, seven new
strikes, the best making forty-five bar
re Is daily. Three wells produced twen
ty barrels each, and a number rangcJ
in slxe from five to ten barrels. Pro
duction In thla county has grown by
leaps and bounds, the average weekly
production approximating. 9,260 bar
rels, being the largest since develop
ments were started. The trunk line con
nection with the Cumberland Pipe
Line Company, soon to be made, will
enable producers to market a still larg
er output, aa the present congestion
will be overcome.
The bordering counties of Clark,
Powell and Madison are lining up for
advance work, but outside a dry hole
In Powell county, no results In com
pleted work are reported.
Late returns from lower Kentucky
districts were featured by a strike of
fifty barrels' capacity in McCreary,
bordering the old-established district
of Wayne county. Thla well waa drilled
considerably In advance of production.
and Is causing keen Interest among the
the Northern Church's General Con
ference In 1920.
.The report recommends the amalga
mation of the branches of American
Methodism, with the General Confer
ence as tha supreme governing body
of the church, and with separata con
ferences and episcopal supervision for
the negro churches. The report was
adopted amid scenes of unbounded en
thusiasm.
Only one speech was made in favor
of the action and none in opposition.
Rev. John F. Goucher. President
Emeritus of Goucher College, Baltimore,
Aid, in moving the adoption of the re
port, emphasized the fact that the pro
posed amalgamation would be' a fed
erated union that would protect all the
varied Interests just as the Federal
Government protects the Interests of
the separate states, but in the case of
Federated Methodism, the world and
not the nation would be under ecum
enical control.
When Dr. Goucher concluded the
pentup enthusiasm of tha conference
burst ita bounds. Every one rose to his
feet and the building shook with ap
plause and shouts of "Vote! Vote!"
At the call for affirmative votes vir-
tually the entire convention rose, and
when the opposition was called for only
one or two- scattered delegates stood
up.
Renewed cheering and applause greet
ed the announcement that the, report
had been adopted, and. as Bishop E. R.
Hendrix. of the Methodist, Episcopal
Church South, stepped to the speaker's
desk and clasped hands with Bishop
C ranston, the presiding officer, the con
vention spontaneously began singing
"Praise God, From Whom All Bless
ings Flow," and followed with "Blest
Be the Tie That Binds."
Bishop Cranston was greatly affect
ed by the demonstration. Wiping away
the tears that streamed down his face.
he said: -
This Is the supreme moment of my
life. Tou might have continued me in
an effective relation for eight years
longer lf-7"u had so willed, but you
couiu do nave iven me tne graunca-1 vf
- - '"-""J' ;. flu,...
Bishop Hendrix said: "As se.m,iM
Bishop of American Methodism T-i. j
lieve that by our action to-day w i ,h
accomplished more for the g "impossible
mankind than resulted from tA hitn
MISS MOLLIE CLAY PA88E8
TO THE GREAT BEYOND.
Fsllsburg.
Miss Mollis Clay, whose critical ill
ness haa been noted in the NEWS for
several Weeks, died Tuesday evening at '
the home of her father. Mr. C. W. nv. :
Her last illness bad been lingering and '
painful in the extreme and death must
have been to her a welcome visitor.
When the final moment 'came she waa
surrounded by a father, mother and
two brothers, Allen and Fred Clay. Tha '
funeral services were conducted by the
Rev. David Leslie, of Ashland. He was
a preacher of the M. E. Church, South,
of which Uie deceased had been a faith
ful member for twenty-two years. A
very large number of friends of the
dead woman were present.
The solemn exercises were opened by
the singing of "Nearer My God to
Thee" after which a prayer was offer
ed by Rev. R. H. Cassady. Then song
"I Will Meet You In The Morning''
prayer by Bro. Curnutte, song by the
choir and then the body, in charge of '
the pallbearers, six of Mollies girl
friends, Pluma Colllnswortb, Myrtle
Queen, Nellie Lambert, Pearl Fugate,
Bessie Collinsworth and Fanny Austin
were taken to the family cemetery over
looking her home to wait until tha :
Judgment day when her body will ac
company her spirit to the heavenly
home beyond.
Mollie was born Dec 26, 1874, died
May 9, 1916. She had been afflicted
with paralysis ever since Dec. 20, 1916, -but
she has gone to where there is no
paralysis and pains. She called her
father and mother to her bed and told
them she was not uneasy, but believ
ed they would meet her in heaven. She '
said that she would soon be home and
all ahe wanted to stay here for was on -account
of her two brothers. 'She ask- '
ed Fred to meet her in heaven and ask "
her mother to tell Allen she wanted
him to meet her in hearven. She said '
she wanted to see Allen and talk to -him,
but he waa in bed with the meas- -Ies
and could not see her until she was
so near home she didn't recognize him.
Mollie was loved by all who knew her.
She leaves father, mother, three broth
ers and two sisters to mourn her loss.
" J A FRIEND.
GOVERNOR HATFIELD SUED. ,
Charleston, W. Va May !. Geo. H. '
Rausch, a Pennsylvania traveling man,
haa filed In the United States Circuit
Court for the Southern District of West -Virginia
suit for $10,000 damages
against Governor Henry D. Hatfield.
The suit for damages is based on a.
charge that the Governor some months
ago assaulted Rausch and another sales
man named William L. Abbott, of Phil
adelphia, when he accused the two
salesmen of the theft of a testament ,
which he had left in the dining car of .
a passenger train. On the complaint of
the Governor the men were held in Jail
at Point Pleasant.
Abbott filed suit for $25,000 damages
some months ago. Jhsj"., -
- -X- head exercise excellent for circu
lation la to lie on a. couch with the
head projecting beyond the couch.Bend
the head forward, backward, to eacn
side, then rotate. Repeat this eight or
ten times twice daily." -
tie of Saratoga."
be possible
Read the adds In the NEWS.
MOTHERS' DAY.
Most of the churches lr:
JRT OF THE CONDITION OF
51.000.09
.25.968.27
juosi oi me cnurcnes
had services appropriate slank, st Louisa, in tha State of Kentucky,
Day." At the M. E. Chuc!tn c, D"'"a. on May 1, 1916.
pastor, the Rev. L. E. Met counts (except those shown on b).. $512828 25
place of the regular sermc. .........
length on the subject very i .................ii,s.
lied to mother "Home." Hod to secure circulation (par value) . .60 000 00
were very appropriate. The s 4o secure U. S. deDoaltamr i,.a iaaaaa ".
wou Buiutuie iu jab occasion ..................
evening there were several a,'c:
made upon- the subject of "I bonds pledged to secure postal sa vines
Mr. McEldowney led, followed t - 7 nna!
era! citizens, viz: G. W. Castle, a bonds (not including atvk.t -n'i
r rwiie, xv A . Dunu. n. . IUI ...........
H. C. Sullivan. aveto...:.. .
At the M. E. Church the usua'val Reserve Bonk stoek
vices were held. In the evening Federal Reserve
pastor, the Rev. N. H. Young pr. 1 4 200 00
ed a fine sermon to a good congi.. 2,100.00
Hon, using as a text, "He that betas (If unencumbered ..
eth need not be ashamed."
In the evening at the Baptist chu n...
the pastor, the Rev. W. A. Gai Jian banking- house
preached a strong and convincing c.Jaral Reserve Bank.
course on the Divinity of Christ, approved reserve agents In New York.
congregation was large and attent 7. 2 90102
On Sunday afternoon an old fa- loved reserve asrents In nth.- e
ioned love feast conducted by the 6 7916S
as. A. Abbott was held at the M. a and bankers (other than lnrlnri
Church. . j,
- . r cash items 281.62
KILLED BY C. A O. TRAIN. and cants loo i.
...5.500.OO
.28.968.27
660.0C
2.100.00
6,509.09
2.400.OO
(00.00
7,000.00
Newport. Ky.. May 16. Geo. Browi lk"
40 years old, employed on the Govern-"
ment dam at New Richmond. Ky wa" '
killed by a C. & O. train to-day. H,""'
waa seen walking along the main tTack,, 1Teasurer and due From U. a
carrying a bundle of rope. Noise of a
freight train prevented his hearing the ,'
Maysville accoramodatio'n en route '
East. 'abilities.
8,694.67
1.822.0S
881.(8
160.00
65.00
12.420.35
2,545.00
2,500.00
$340,061.80
$15,000 LOSS CAUSED
BY A MAYSVILLE FIRE..'"."
. ' ''. ater-
Maysvllle. Ky., May 15. One of the
most costly fires that has occurred here ig. ..,
in years broke out this evening at six jid
'clock in the Day and Night Garage. . ..
.$16,430.(3
..... 1,125.29
ankers (other than included
.$ 60.000.40
. 20.000.00
12,305.84
49,100.00
run by Allen ft Glnn, causing a loss of
more than $15,000, -partly covered by 0 check
insurance. The fire was caused by anu fogs than SO days...
explosion or gasoline, wnicn apreat:g..,...,
quickly all over the frame building. In,
which were stored a number of aulos
and trucks.
FUNERAL NOTICE,
The funerals of Flnley -Thompson
18187
.. 168.722.28
25,708.18
249.91
1.000.00
. 2.192.23
, 208,472.69
$340,061.80
Portsmouth, May 1 J. George Jor
dan, aged 8, the lad who recently claim
ed that' he acrldently shot and killed trade.
his mother, Mrs. Pemella Jordan.whose Results have been light in the older
dead body waa found at her home. Flat producing districts during the past few
Woods, near Ijucaavllle, a week ago daya. Wayne county reports list one
Inst Tuesday, haa been sent to the failure and one strike, good for ten
Scioto County Children's Home. The -barrels. A small pumper waa drilled
Ind will be kept at this institution un- In the established area of Lawrence.
til tne county aomoriiiea wmnra a nnr Itnm n tm muii nun7 m- ""' - v , v .nlt kii .f
.. . . . .w- . . ... . I I., i. nioin. H.mH.u mv tii Js best or my knowledge ana neuer.
tneir invesiigmiiona in mn ma, trioi yesieraay came in wuii a yieiu oi .- vh "" - . w rrjj vt r-
-v. , . v. .. ..... , . , mi h Rv rv.nlev. Evervhodv Is t- . r. (,UNLB.r, i-sanier.
joruan, lilt e muii-i , . in nwi v mvM uarrvin. III hukhi vihiipipiiuii hi - - - r f .
. ' ., v j i.v . - . . ... . i .uenri iSAnoitK bii. i 'I Corraot Attest:
me cnuniy Jul I. i-iiaiavu wiiu iuv mur- aeverai wwhr. 11 la unj niuv irum me " 1 -1 ' - " w - - -
der of Mrs. Jordan. developed area. GITT.
and Fannie Justice will be preached at I v ..... , ,
th. home place of Richard R. Thorn p- V ;tjamed bank, do M""Iy' swear
U H. TOR ft,
F. H. TATKS.
AUGUSTUS BNTDHR,
Dlreotsrs.
