NIGHT
EXTRA
Ctiemng
FINANCIAL EDITION
i&ttytt
NIGHT
EXTRA
VOX. II. NO. 213
PHILADELPHIA, PKIDAY, MAY 19, 1010.
CoHBtortr, 1018. bi mi Pcblio Lrron CowpiKi.
PRICE ONE OEM
TEDDY'S HAT '
: GOES INTO RING1
IN FORD'S CITY
Speech at Detroit Names
Terms qf His
Candidacy
against: ignoble policy
Cites Belgium as a Horrible Ex
ample of National Un
' ' preparedness
'Colonel Seeks Support
' on "American" Platform
Does not want support except un
Her the clear understanding that the
principles for which he stands are
strnightout "American policies," not
in the interest of some other nation.
Belgium's present woe attrlbut
Mo tn nnnnsition of employers to
preparation for war.
r n--lrtt f InIn, lilrn tVio fnnnnr.
heads of Civil War days and Tories
of the Revolutionary period.
"Peace-at-any-price" comes within
the probability of -.'making this Re
public a hissing and a byword
among the nations of the earth.
Congress and Administration have
refused, through popular indiffer
ence, to prepare adequately against
a cataclysm like that which has
swept Europe.
Americanism and preparedness
the only two great issues.
William Loeb, who was Roose
velt's secretary when the" latter was
President, visits Washington and
confirms report that "big business"
would support Roosevelt for the Re
publican nomination as against
Justice Hughes.
DETROIT, Mich., May 10. Theodore
Roosevelt Invaded Pacifist Henry Ford's
town today with his message of prepared
ness, and In characteristic fashion threw
his hat Into the ring aj an entrant In the
presidential lists..
The Colonel and his party arrived at
;10 a. m. find found a couple of thousand
Dttrolters assembled at tho Michigan Cen
tral depot. A citizens' commltteo of BO,
headed by Henry. B. Joy, extended official
welcome.
A crowd of seeral hundred youngsters,
including seeral troops of boy scouts,
clocked tho party's progress to the station
ult.
fHI, Teddy," shrilled one, and then the
Colonel made a speech.
SJfBoys," he said, "don'.t be mollycpddles.
f. Si above anything unmanly or .unclean."
f Excent for a block of Beats reserved for
$00 Detroit mothers who are wllllngg to
offer their sons -"for tho defense of the
country," all seats in tho opera house were
a . In til mitttli m
VUI frW tllO J1UUIHH -
HIS HAT IN THK IHNG.
At the outset the Colonel professed reluct
ance to speak justjbeforo tho conventions,
"because It Is very difficult to make people
understand that speeches at such a time nr
not of the ordinary political type made In
the Interest of some particular Individual
candidacy." But tho sucess of Mr. Ford In
the primaries of Michigan and his strength
Ir. Nebraska and Pennsylvania had had
such an effect on Congressmen, he con
tinued, that he must sricak out. '
Mr, Roosevelt to all Intents and purposes
proclaimed his candidacy for President and
announced thj terms on which ho would
accept another-clcctlon. when, after a strik
ing arraignment of "hyphenated citizens"
guilty of disloyalty to the country of their
adoption, he said.
''I very freely ndmlt that no man ought to
back me or support the policies for which
I stand unless with the clear understanding
that these are straight-out American poli
cies, not policies In the Interest of urae
other nation against my own, and that our
citizens do, play my game, precisely to the
extent that they support such straight-out
American policies.''
BELGIUM'S FATE A LESSON.
The colonel expressed great admiration,
for Mr. Ford's character and his treatment
of his employes, and referring to these lat
ter said philanthropic Belgian employes of
the Ford type before tho war treated their
workers well and decried preparedness for
war. Just as Mr, Ford has done. These Bel
gian workpeople today are In poverty ; they
cannot And work to do except at tho behest
of the conqueror and their employers' fine
theories hav resulted only In disaster a,nd
Jrae. Similar conditions exist In Korea, said
the speaker, on account of Japan's conquest
of that country. Japan, however, he said,
baa treated Kor a well, wherenH Belgium
has Buffered frightfully under German
com! nation.
"What I have said," continue Colonel
Roosevelt, "can with truth be said of many,
perhaps of most of the Tories of the Revo
lutionary War and of many or most of the
pacifists of the Civil War. the extremists
among whom were popularly rttnown as
Copperheads Many of these Tories and
Civil War pacifists were men of fine char
acter and upright purpose, who sincerely
Relieved In tho cause they advocated. They
Included all the men who were pacifists of
their day.
"These pacifists, who formed so large a
proportion of the old-time Tories and Cop-
Contlnutd on fata Heitnlcen, Column Tour
THE WEATHER
Do you know why It Is so hard to keep
resolution? It Is, In the definition of the
verb to resolve. Besides meaning "to form
purpose or resolution; especially, to de-
Bf ... " reiiccuuii, aa, to resolve on a
jtep course, of life," It has several sinister
ii. Si .. '" w," uru lucxea away m
"J dictionary They are; "To lapse; to
n? '.to dls'i'teerato; to become fluid"
jpereln the secret: persons who resolv
wm a purpose, and then lapoe; the weather
man rsLni. An i ... ... . ..
F iiici. i " lu ,B"U a "oner me, ano then
ii Ei.i "v",?' ,ne ".determines after re
I com n ,J" falr' "" 'henmelts 8nd De,
The dictionary should be changed.
FORECAST
For Phi)ntll,!,Sr. J ..:.::,.. n.-
f Ptid continued cool tonight and Satur-
--.. y .((. to moderate west vimaa, oe
mmng variable. ,
1.0ST AND .FOUND
OSS tio,t, a Bold croM. between 18-n and
XSS an4 Uroacl ana ChrUtUn. Tue U. .
Mravtil on back. "To Aunt Maytao from
V?J1P'l,t'. bar pin, platinum. T diamonds
a thlp diamond. May 10. on CbMtnut at
Sa ooj and 17th, l?0 reward, Jteluru (a
E-feJikJ6 J0!; ft. I .
iSSfk fawn-colored Fe-UnstMi anfwera
5u!K,J P- Kwsrtl, Return Mt W3
SimMffi'ar &e,
t &r ll al bh4 Ai s Paae ""
NOW, IF U. S. ACTS,
GERMANS BELIEVE
Poincare and Grey State
ments Galled Opening
Guns in Discussion
NATIONS WEARY OF WAR
Berlin Mny Reply to Speeches of
British and French
Statesmen
By CAUL W ACKERMAN
BERLIN, May ID.
There Is a feeling here that If a strong
neutral, bucIi as tho United States, under
took to negotlato pence It might succeed,
Diplomatic circles regard tho recent state
ments of President I'olncaro and Sir Kd
ward Grey ns tho opening guns In an In
formal discussion of peace, though tho ex
pressions from the Allied lenders, when
ranged alongside the German Chancellor's
recent Reichstag speech, do not appear al
together conciliatory.
No decision has been reached here as
to whether any official reply to these state
ments will bo mado public by the German
Government, though It Is posslblo this will
be done. One official with whom I talked
today declared that making pence at this
stage of the war would bo more difficult
than adjusting tho recent German-American
HUbmnrlno dispute. Ho pointed out,
however, that no belligerent can publicly
stato definite terms of penco while In
formal discussions contlnuo with each side
making drnstlc statements of what It In
tends to accomplish as the result of the
war.
PEACE SENTIMENT STRONG.
I havo Just 'returned from n, visit to Hol
land, where I found that Dutchmen believe
tho English, French and German people all
deslro peace. The general Impression In
Holland Is that the time for a declslvo vic
tory for either side has passed, although
each of the belligerents may attenmt a sum
mer offensive. Tho Dutch think It Is Amer
ica's duty to act now and that the time Is
ripe to bring the belligerents together. Ono
diplomat said that If the pence talk now
In circulation continues for a few months
tho belligerents will learn enough of what
cacn sme wants to bring them together In
a peace agreement by October.
The genernl Impression prevails in Hol
land that Premier Asqulth and Chancellor
Bethmann-Hollweg might mak.o peace, but
that tho-Kltchener-Noithcllffo group jn Iing
land, Willi President Poincare In France, are
anxious to continue tho war. Hollanders
declare that one reason England doe3 not
want pence now is because she believes that
German submarines cannot behave, and that
ns long as the possibility of, the United
States breaking off relations with Germany
exists, England woud bo foolish to make
peaco. The Dutch, however, regard this as
only an excuse set up by that group In
England which -wants a continuation of the
war.
WANT US. TO LEAD
The Hollanders nre outspoken in their
regard for -America, considering tho United
States their best friend. They desire that
the United States lead the way for peace,
feeling that It Is Its duty to. end the blood
shed. To my surprise some Hollanders asked
me when the German peqple are going to
start a revolution because of the food sit
uation. Although meat Is scarce, although
the fchortago may Increase, tho proposed
new Government burenu to regulate tho snle
of meat In Germany will provide livable
rations and prevent food demonstrations.
So far there Is no Indication that any
demonstrations nt all equaling tho Irish
uprisings are llkelyto occur.
Note The above dispatch Is probably the
Continued on Van Four, Column Two
$722,200 FOR ARSENAL
HERE RECOMMENDED IN
APPROPRIATION BBLb
$50,000 for Postoffice Equipment
in This City Also Included x
in House Committee's
' Measure
$80,000 FOR DELAWARE
Bu a Staff Correspondent
WASHINGTON. May 19. An appropria
tion of 1722,200 for Frankford Arsenal, Is
Included In the sundry civil bill, which was
reported favorably to thi. Houso today by
tho Appropriations Committee, The Items
nre as fdllows;
General shop building, $89,000.
Extension of artillery ammunition store
houses, $27,500.
'Extension of Instrument building, $19,
100. Extension of fuse shjp building, 1126,000.
Extension of artillery case shop building,
$35,000.
Extension of lead shop building, $10,000.
Metal storehouse, $31,500.
Storehouses for rifles. $45,000.
Purchase of additional land, $125,000.
Sewer connection, $7,600.
Garage for motortrucks, $10,000,
Construction and repair to road walks
and sea Walls, $11,600.
Fire protection. $20,000,
Increasing facilities for rifles and field
artillery, $175,000,
The same bill carries nn Item of $50,000
for mall conveying machinery for the Phil
adelphia Postoffice.
An appropriation of $80,000 for aids to
navigation In the Delaware' RUer and an
other for $10,000 for continuation of work
on the South Bethlehem postoffice are also
carried In the' appropriation measure.
The bill carries a total of $127,237,221.24,
as against $126,922,760.79 In last year's
bill.
The sum of $1,535,000 Is appropriated,
for the canal fortifications, which Is $1,895.
000 more than last year.
For armories and arsenala a total of
$4,470,625 Is set aside.
The construction of Infantry barracks at
Hawaii will cost $1,127,000. an Increase of
$1,000,000.
For the Government railroad now being
built In Alaska, $$.24,7.000 Is appropriated.
The Federal Trade Commission, which
gaya It has been hampered In, Its work by
lack of clerical force. Is given $446,080. an
Increase of $91,000.
SteeHon's $75,000 Loan Passed
HAnUISBUna, May IS. The official re
turns from Steeljqn show that tho $75,000
piunlclp! loan was passed, The vote on
the $58,000 pavls loan VM 590 ton iU
aialaatj nn apparatus loan, 1SI tor, JI
gtfct '
IDA VON CLAUSSEN DONA
IDA VON CLAUSSEN DONA
ASKS U.S. AID HERE TO
REGAIN HER MILLIONS
Countess Invades Federal Build
ing and Demands That Offi
cials Invoke Law on
Her Side
HUSBAND WITH HER
Countess Ida von Clnussen Dona, who
last January married nn attendunt of the
Hospital for tho Insano nt Mlddletoiyn, N.
V., where sho was confined, todaj Imnded
the Federal Building and poured forth her
tale of woe. If tho Countess has her say
United States Dlstrfct Attorney Francis
Fisher Kane, Chief Postal Inspector James
T. Cortolyou and others, even Judges, will
be hailed Into court lo help her regain pos
session of the millions which, sho says, are
being kept from her
"There Is no law In America," Was her
opening remark, ns she called upon George
Broadbnck, clerk of the United States
Court in this city, to see what Government
officlttts could do to help her and her causo.
Tho Countess said that tho law should
exist for her ns well as any ono else that
Theodoro rtooseelt rules this Stato and
that lawyers and Government officials, al
though sho has a good case, nre afraid to
do anything to help her.
The Countess, It will bo lemembercd.
tried to suo Theodore Roosovclt only re
cently. The trip to the Federal Building was
mado In company with her youthful hus
band, who remained downstairs hlle she
called to "see what the Government would
do."
Both Countess and husband nre stopping
at tho Hotel Wlndcmerc In this city Her
eyes spnrkled with enthusiasm or Indigna
tion. nerhnps."ns sho proceeded to tell the
,Federal authorities Just vhat bhe wanted.
In tho first place, tne countess sam ner
brother. Matthew B, Clnussen! of New York,
Is vlolntlng the postal l.iws by threatening
her through the mails, Sho had a batch
of letters they made nlmost a bundle
in her hands while sho talked.
According to her story, tho brother
threatened to lmvo her spnt back to nn
asylum unless she kept out of the limelight
and avoided newspaper notoriety. Such
threats by mall are against tho law, she
said, and her brother Bhould be called to
account.
TRYING TO SAVE BABIES
Rescues One and Is Carried
From Het; Burning Home.
With the Other Child
A mother was oercome by smoke early
today while. rescuing her two babies from
her blazing home, at 2623 West Firth street.
She saved one -of the babies and was car
ried out with the other
The woman. Mrs. Harold Smith, had
wrapped 4-month-old Ituth In a wet sheet
and carried her to safety, when she was
overcome In the smoke-filled rooifi, where
she groped for her other child, 2-year-old
Bernlce. The ' child was carried down a
ladder and. Mrs. Smith down the steps by
William Wilkinson., a fireman of Engine
Company No, 45, living at 2526 West Firth
street, and Matthew Butterly, a policeman
of the Front affd Master treets station,
whose home la' at 2519 West Firth street,
Mrs. Smith was revived at the home of a
.neighbor.
The nre, wnicn is ueneveu tu nave uteu
caused by mice, was discovered by Wilton
Iockhardt. of 2523 Sergeant street, who
aroused Wilkinson and Butterly. The
flames were extinguished, after they Imd
caused $100 damage In the kitchen.
QUADRUPLETS ARRIVK .
AT CLEVELAND HOBIE
All Doing WpH and Parents Are Happy.
Have Three Other Children
CLBVEIjANP, May 19 Quadruplets
two bovs and two girls arrived In Cleve
land today. Their mother. Mrs, Frank
Zeman, wjfe of a ary cleaner, weighs only
1J1Q pounds. A" re u"'t wi.
mk A-., KaKv n hnv weltrhlner three
....,ia n-HviH nt 3-.30 a. m. The next wan
11WH4- 1 i--- - '
a girl weighing two and one-half pounds.
The, third, a boy, and the fourth, a girl, who
arrived fti ft u . i wvibhc1
one and, one-half pounds cch.
Mrs. geroau: baa thrte, ether children,
eiarBj f ; Whk, , and George, S yearyiJa.
SIXTEEN VILLA
BANDITS KILLED
BY ILS. COWBOYS
Clash on Ranch South of
Madera Gigantic Plot
Suspected
WIRELESS PLANT SEIZED
Smuggling of Munitions Across
Border Puzzles American
Agents
WASHINGTON, May 19. Colonel
Sibley reported io the War Department
today from Los Anomos, Mexico, that
he was going personally to join Major
Lnnghornc's detachment, the location
of which wns not given. Colonel Sib
Icy did not state whether he would tnke
his troops with him. Officials here
were unable to determine whether the
two forces were to be merged or
Colonel Sibley wns merely to confer
with Major Lnnghorne.
rnnsniNfrs Fini,n hkadquautkiis
XEAIt NAMIQUITA, Mox.. May IS (via
wireless to Columbut, N. M May 19).
Sixteen Villa bandits were killed and n
number captured when a band of 26 cow
boys from tho Hearst.ranch surprised the
bandits 40 miles south of Madera.
131, PASO, Tex., May 19. Agents of the
United States Department of Justice nre
searching along the border of Xcw Mexico
for evidence of n glgnntlc smuggling plot
alleged to have had the backing of Mexican
consuls The seatch Is being conducted to
day under tho leadership of H U Stone,
chief agent hero of tho Department of Jus
tice, who has a military escort tor the work
of running down the conspirators. .
Word reached Stone several days ago
that Mexicans were smuggling American
arms and ammunition across fie border
from New Mexico In large quantities. An
Investigation that began Immediately rc
Mllted In n raid last night upon a Mexican
house at Douglas, ArU. There the military
police found a complete wireless plant, 40
rifles and thousands of rounds of ammuni
tion Thus far therlug leaders of the smug
ling plot hao CHcnped capture, but Agent
Stono Is personally tonductlng the hunt for
them American ofllceis nt Fort Bliss be
lieve that the rifles and ninmunltou seized
nt Douglas wero lo bo taken Into Mexico,
but the Douglas authorities assert the dis
covery of the wireless plant Is evidence
that nn outbreak of Mexican residents nf
that town. w-as jijanned to take effect i In
the near future. " ., ""'
Ponding further raids upon the border
by Mexican bandits residents of the bbrder
States settled down to speculate upon the
probablo length of tho Carranza Govern
ment's existence. Mexico's Internal con
ditions, which have already caused food
rlota in many centres have now begun to
create dissatisfaction among the Carran
zlsta troops, according to reliable reports
reaching tho border.
Inability of tho Cnrrnnza fiovorntnent to
raise funds Is responsible for tho conditions.
The Mexican peso Is now worth about 2
cents in gold. Tho Mexican soldlerH, who
get about two pjsos a day, object to this
condition. From all parts of Mexico come
fresh reports of disturbances from workers
and merchantmen not to nccept tho Cnr
ranza money with Its small purchasing
power.
HIT BY BALL IN GAME,
HIGH SCHOOL BOY DIES
Foul Tip Strikes Youth Catching
Without Mask, Fracturing
His Skull
fnnto by i Hnullenbure & Cn.
KILLED BY BASEBALL
Frank Hoen, 0 Central High School
student, of 7137 Cresheim road, is
dead as the result of being struck
on tho head by a baseball, while
playing in a game yesterday,
A toul tip In a baseball game killed 18-year-old
Frank Hoen, son of Mr and Mrs
John U Hoen, of 7137 Cresheim road. Mt.
Airy, a senior at the Central High School.
He died labt night, tuo hours after he
had been struck on the temple wth a
pitched ball, that was tipped by the batter,
behind whom he was catching without a
mask. Ills fellows In the game were not
Informed pf his death.
Young Hoen, who would fiave been grad
uated In a classical qourse within three
weeks, was catching In an Impromptu game
on a lot on Mt. Pleasant avenue west of
the Pennsylvania Railroad After he had
been struck he quit the game and walked
home.
"Mother. I've been hurt seriously," he
fcald.
His two aunts, the Misses Fllzabeth and
Catherine Poollng, were supporting him
along the street toward a physician's when
he collapsed. He was taken home: and Dr.
i" H. CaTmlchael of 7127 Uermnntown
avenue, was called The young student
died of a. (raptured skull two hours later
tie la survhed by his parents and a sis.
ter, Catherine, His father Is a member of
tbe Silver, Clean, Pan. Company, oi 17 North
Water trjt.
QUICK NEWS
STRIKING PAINTERS ATTACK BOSSES AT WORK
v
Sovciity-flve stiiking palntcr3 nttneked n tlozrn of their 'bossrs
todny when they attempted to do tho woik of the strikers on nn op
eration at 4 Hi and lUtucr sticcts. A riot call wns Edit In for the
police and several shott were fired before tho stilkcn weic subdued,
JTniiy of the strikers were nrrestcd.
JAMAICA RACING RESULTS
Tlrst race, nindcn 2-year-olds, selling, 5 furlongo Julia Lton,
113, Hoffman, 1U to 0, 4 to 5 and out, won; Cockleshell, 1 12, HayucS;
0 to 5, 3 to 0 niut out, second; Burlesque, 112, Hniujvci' 10 to 0, 4 to
. nud out, third. Time, 1 :02. Picclsc also inn.
TRADE BODIES URGE BOARD FOR VOCATIONAL TRAINING
WASHINGTON. Mny 19. "In n referendum completed today by tho Chamber of
Commerce of the. United States two-thirds of the commorclal organizations of tho
country requested tho establishment of a Federal board, backed by Federal funds,
for nidlng vocational training. Three hundred nnd flfty-threo organizations enst votes
on tho national clinmber'a plnn. The result of tho canvnss Is to bo reported to Con
gress with a request for such legislation ns Is neccssnry for tho carrying out of
tho plan,
CYMRIC VICTIM OF BOILER EXPLOSION, BERLIN HEARS
InaRLIN, May 19. That tho White Star liner Cmrlc wns sunk by nn explosion
of her boilers and was not torpedoed, nB icportcd from London, was the assertion
made by n member of her crew reaching Amstculam, according to dispatches received
Hero todny.
BRITAIN TO TURN CLOCKS AHEAD ON SUNDAY
LONDON, Mny 19. The summer "daylight saving" bill, to reduce the number
of hours during which artificial lighting mny bo used, and so save a larRo quantity of
roal icquiicd for war purposes, has received tho royal assent nnd goes Into force at
'1 o'clock Sunday morning.
NORSE EMPLOYERS DECLARE LOCKOUT OF 77,000 MEN
CIirtlSTIANIA, May 19. The Norwegian Employers' Union today declared a
general lockout affecting 77,000 men. Grave disorders arc expected nnd troops nre
held In rcudlncss for service.
BRITISH WARSHIPS SHELL TURKISH CAMP
LONDON, May 19. British warships lmvo bombarded tho Turkish camp at
EI Arish, It was announced by the War Offlco today. (El Arlsh Is on the Merltcr
ranean coast, about. 90 miles east of, tho Suez Canal. It lies In tho Slnnl Peninsula
and Is 25 miles frontho Turkish border.)
U-BOATS' TOLL SINCE JANUARY 1 TONNAGE OF 671,500
BERLIN, May 19. Since January 1 enemy merchant ships having a" total ton
nage of 071,500 have been sunk byGeiman and Austrian" submarines, it was an
nounced today. ,
PREPAREDNESS SPEED COST PHILADELPHIA GIRL $5
Ilelng a "rookie" at the vvomenV, preparedness camp at Chovy Chase cost Miss
Josephine Henley, of this city, ?5. Miss Henley, who wns doing scout duty with
hei automobile, was notified to appear at tho Magistrate's Court, In Washington,
for speeding. As icgulntlons prevented her leaving tho camp, she failed to appear
In court and was fined fS.
NEW KRUPP PLANT TO AID GERMANY'S ALLIES
BERLIN, May 19. Tho tract near Munich, bought recently by tho Krupps, will
bfi used ns tho alto for a cannon factory. The guns manufactured there will be
huppllcd to Germany's allies. Tlio ground Is nearly 700 acres In extent. The muni
r'pallty of Munich, In connection with a syndicate of banks, has taken up an adjoining
trnct of tho samo size, on whlon Industrial establishments will be situated. Both
vontuies are parts of tho plan of tho Bavarian Government to erect a great electrical
plant at Walchenseo, In the Bavanan mountains. Tills plant will supply electrical
power for tho Krupp and other establishments.
CHAMBER OF DEPUTIES SUPPORTS PREMIER BRIAND
PAniS, May 19. Premlet Biiatid, In the Chnmber of Deputies yesterday, asking
for a postponement of certain Interpellations, among them one regarding tho defense
of Verdun and another concerning tho censorship, demanded a vote of confidence.
"At a moment when wo cherish tno best of hopes," he said, "confidence between
Parliament and tho Government should bo deep, real and fraternal. Solidarity is
essential. If Parliament cannot ulve Its confidence, let It say so, and the Government
will rotlre. If ever a Government, had need of standing proudly before the world it is
that of Franco In all her greatness." Tho Interpellations were postponed.
VENIZELOS DEFIES' GREEK GENERAL STAFF
ATHENS, May 19. Former Premier Vcnlzelos lias accepted entiro responsibility
for the articles which have appeared in his newspaperrgun, the Herald, criticising
severely tho General Stuff of the Greek army. Tho newspaper Is being prosecuted for
cumlnnl libel. M. Venizolos sa'u he would mako no statement to tha examining
Magistrate, adding that If thn p.osecutlon weio not dropped ho would conduct his
own defense. It is thought tho wo never will come to trial.
TURKS IN EGYPT FLEE BEFORE AUSTRALASIANS
t LONDON, May 19, The following official communication concerning operations
in Egypt was mado public, lust night: "The general officer commanding In chief
In Egypt repot ts a successful enterprise against the enemy at Bayoud and Magelbra,
which was carried out by a columr of Australian nnd New Zealand mounted troops
May 16. Tho enemy made no resistance, but (led at once, pursued by us. Tho very
great heat and the bad going over the deep sand made it Impossible for the pursuit
to bo carried very far. Thlrty-slx camels, a quantity of Turkish ammunition and one
Turkish soldier were captured at Bayoud and the enemy camp there was destroyed."
$100,000 FIRE IN THE NORFOLK NAVY YARD
NORFOLK, Va May 19 Fire of unknown origin last night destroyed the
Norfolk navy yard's ship-fttteiu' chop with Us machinery and equipment, and
slightly damaged the adjoining bo!ler makers' and plumbers' shops. Naval Con
structor Watt, in charge of the yaid construction work, estimated the damage at
fjom $100,000 to $150,000, depecding upon the amount of the machinery that can
he salvaged. '
PROHIBITION BILL IN BRITISH COLUMBIA HOUSE
VICTORIA, B. C May 19 Premier Bowt,er lias Introduced in the provincial
parliament a prohibition bill to hecomo effective Jn British Columbia July l next year.
Of forty members In the House, advocates of the bill say less than ten will vote
against the measure.
ASQUITH SEEKS NEW $1,500,000,000 CREDIT
LONDON, May 19. It is generally believed that tha vote of credit which
Premier Asqulth will ask from Parliament ,next Tuesday will be for f 300,000,000
($1,500,000,000). This will be the 11th vote since the beginning of the war, and will
bring the total thus granted up to 2,382,000,000 ($11,910,000,000). The last previous
vote, granted on February 21, it was estimated, would carry on the war to the end
of May.
EARTHQUAKE EXTENDS TO EASTERN ITALY
ROME, May 19. An earthquake of particular violence has occurred along the
Adriatic coast, between Rimini and Casena. At tho latter town a dozen persons were
Injured by the fall of cornices. Father Alfanl, director of the observatory at Flor
fnce1, predicts a repetition of the earthquake which extended to the Venetian provinces.
yhe entire central section of Italy was shaken by repeated earthquakes, which
tasted thriugh Tuesday and Wednesday. Only the. most meagre details imv? oa yet
been received tn UU4 country, and It la" not known what losa oi life occurted, tt any.
UNION SEMINARY
OBJECT OF GREED,'
AVERS PREACHER
Rlnmps Srt.nnn.nnn Fund fnr
". .T- - - -- - m
Jnght on jNew Yont
Presbytery
DR. McKIBBIN ACCUSED
Money, However, Cannot Be
Used for Any Other
Institution
t 'fT!iw"T!
I - ' H I
MHBx .
ftB
v a
THE REV. CHARLES W. WELCH
New York pastor, who asserts the
agitation directed against tho New
York Presbytery nnd tho Union
Theological Seminary is n monetary
and not n spiritual one. He says
it will never bring forth ncent for
nny theological seminary if Union
should be compelled to forfeit her
funds. The money would revert to
the heirs. Union now has ?5,0Q0,
000 invested.
By LISETTA NEUKOM
vrtiln0 Ledotr Staff Correspondent.
ATLANTIC CITY, May 1 John T.
Mason, New Haven, Conn., a layman,
was announced as vice moderator -ef
the Presbyterian General Assembly,
this afternoon. He was appointed by
the. newly elected moderator, Rev. John
A. Marquis.
ATLANTIC .ClTiJMay. in No -PrefeV
leriau tneoiogicai seminary jvm gei a jceni
from tho Union Theological funds my the
old- case s reopened In the 128th General
Assembly of tho Presbyterian Church. In
session here on tho Steel 1'ler, and steps
taken to get those funds for other semi
naries. The money nenrly $5,000.000 wqutd re
ert to' the hclrn of tho men npd women
who originally gave the funds' to Union.
The authority for these statements lo tha
Rev. Charles W. Welch, pnstor of the Park
Avenue Presbyterian Church, New York,
himself a conservative, nnd bellover In the
Virgin birth nnd all tho Church doctrines
which tinvo formed the bone of contention
of the "ousting" movement directed against
New York.
ACCUSES Dlt. McKIBBIN.
"The leader of the movement against the
Union Theological Seminary Is no other
than Dr. William McKlbbln," said the Itev,
Welch this morning. "He Is the presi
dent of the Lane Seminary. Cincinnati. JHe
Is engineering the fight against New York.
It was his presbytery, which started the
present ngltatlon and pent the first overture
to the Genernl Assembly recommending tho
'ousting of tho Presbytery of New York.'
I nm sure you get the slgnlflgance of that,
"Another point whi is strange is this
no attempt has ever been made to ecludef
nny other Presbytery from the 'General As
sembly for licensing young men from Union;
who do not confess certain of the "beliefs
of the Presbyterian Church," added Mr.
Welch with spirit.
"I know 31 Presbyteries which have li
censed men to preach, who have been
gratuated from tho Union Theological
Seminary. Brooklyn has ordained 10,
Newark 4, Long Island 15,. Morris anfl
Ornnso 4 and Nassau several. These I can
mention offhand; yet there Is no action
taken against any of these Presbyteries.
Why? That Is the question which can be
answered by the fact that It Is Doctor Mc
Klbbln who heads the fight on the Presby
tery of New York,
"LANK WANTS THE MONEY,"
"He wants the money which Union Theo
logical Seminary has," added Doctor Welclv
"That Is why he wants action taken on th
New York Presbytery. 1 myself, believe In
tho virgin birth, and all the doctrines of the
Church. But I feel that there Is ft Bplrlt
of covetousiicss which governs tha attitude
of ihe prosecution of the New York Pres.
bytery, and Ignores the other presbyteries
which are doing the same thing.
"The spirit of covetousneas Is a greater
sin than heresy," said. Dr, Welch. "And It
can not be covered by a verbose claim to
lite pwmiun. w M.v.v, .- -.,
Doctor Welch says he feels Doctor 2Xc
Klbben has Intluenced the Rev Jphn For,
secretary of the American Bible Society,
Nw York, one of the chief agitators
agajnst New York. The Rev. Mr- Fox la
sincere, but misguided, says Doctor Welch.
Dr, Welch Bays the uproar In the Oen.
ral Assembly and the controversies will
avail the contenders nothing JJe pays that
if tin men knew taw, iney wouia reaiue
that the money will never go to any on,,,;
Institution except the Union Theological
Seminary. The money will revert lo Un
heirs.
SHORE PASTOR DENOUNCES
RIDDLE AND LAUDS DEFEAT p
IN WELCOME TO CHURCHXEK
By FRED E. BAER
Evening Ledger Staff Corrtssaudimt
ATLANTIC CITY, May 18 What th
Rev. H,nry Merle Melicn. of this city,
didn't say about former Mayor Riddl m
his speech of welcome to, the commission!
of the 128th General Assembly pt the 1'res
byterlan Church, wasn't worth saying.
Some curious lUnk In the working ached
ule o( the assembly makes the adding Bf
welcome come the second day Irustta -
the first, and Mr Mellen, was the Hrt mt
this day's program. He didn't mttafe
CitUen Riddle, but he didn't have to. 5
Inference was plain.
The address t first was an JbOf g
panegyric 1i afttr the first . irf m
eojitliMi. VrnxMl Pstasyt fu
