Hasan's Letters
A I ways on The T.-D. Editorial
Page and Always Interesting
66th YEAR
"Seen on the Side *
A T.-D. Editorial Page Fcatur
?Light, Bright and Unique
VOL.UMH Ofl
Nl'.MIlUIl i:??
RICHMOND, VA., FRIDAY, MAY 19, 1916.?TWELVE PAGES
vTrXT2Kn ?UNSETTLED
PRICE, TWO CENTS.
Will Confer With Officers
on Steps for Protection
of U. S. Interests.
CENSUS SHOWS ABOUT 3,000
AMERICANS IN COUNTRY
Not Disclosed Whether Question
of Effecting Their Removal
Is to Be Considered.
HUNT FOIl BANDITS CONTINUES
Il?*Karfled hm Possible Tliat They
Might lie Caught BeMvrtii Car
rnnza and l-'unMoii Fnrcr*.
WASHINGTON. May U -While walt
ini: r->r the teopen!ng of diplomatic
'il?-usMons with Carranza. :i :id the re
.* Milts of the mllltaii tampuinn against
outlaw bands. the "United Slates gov
t crnmont is considering furthov tnean
iirfK for the protection of Atn< rl^an
interests In Mexico.
Severn' American consuls irom the
Interior of Mexico have be. en ordered
to the border by the State Depart
ment for corftrMices which are ex
pi* t<<i to result In instructions to the
department in the interest of Amerl
i:m lives and property across the boun
dary. Coincident with the gathering
of t.h'? consuls. the State IJepartment
to-day announctt'l partial returns of
the census of Americans' in Mexico
recently ordered. It was stated offi
cially that the American colony at
Mexico City now nutnbcrF about 1,200.
a.* d that th'.re may now be less tnan
,, 3.00:? cltlzenr of the Untied States !n
nil Mexico.
Whether the finest ion of effecting
removal of American* Mill remaining
In the bandit-infested regionB will be
considered by the consuls r<n>I Ameri
can military officers wan not disclosed
here officially.
Consul Letcher, of Chihuahua Citv.
will come to Washington, after the
border conferences, to make a detailed
report to th? State Department.
"\fl IMPORTANT MILITARY
UKVKI.or>1ENTS UKI'OUTKD
No Important military developments
in Mexico or along the border wore re
ported to Washington to-day.
Officials here are closely observing
the Mexican campaign In Southern
and Western Chihuahua, and against
the outlaw" who raided the Big Rend
district. Official dispatches to-day
i rtatcd that Colonel Sibley. In charge
of the pursuit of the outlaws who
raided Glenn Springs and Boquillas,
had a temporary base about forty
mil's south of the boundary.
With Carranza troops reported mov
ItiC toward the Coahulla-Chlhuahua
l'-.rder. army, officials believed 1' pos
sible that the bandits inltriit he caught
between the <"'arranza and American
forces.
The rescue of Jesse Doerner and his
nepro cook Monrs?: Payne, captured
!n the Glenn Springs raid, won ofli- I
> ct.'.lly confirmed durlr.g the day.
State Department dispatches 1udl- [
cated that the strike of Mexican rail- j
wny employees was spreadinc. Shop
? tnployees at Piedras Negras were re
ported to have gone on a strike, pre- j
v-r.ting movement of trains from the
s .utli since May 14. It also was ofJl
c.ally reported that railroad employees]
ir Guadalajara struck or. May 11 and1
t at Aguascallentes was cut off from
railroad communication because of the;
s! rike
WORK A I.RKA O V STAHTKI1
t>V VK1V RAILWAY I.INK
Dispatches from Mexico City to the
embassy here to-night said work hail
begun on the new railway line which
will cross the States of Yucatan.
Chiapas. Campeche and Tabasco from
the Caribbean Sea to the Pacific. The
nlvice* also stated (hat the national
nion?tary commission shoitly would
promulgate regulations, to become ef
fective on June 1. to set forth the
method and bit sis of sottlement of
obligations contracted for payment in
metallic money, before the issuance of
the. present paper currency: that of
fi,-vs had been opened in the capital,
where the claimants to property seized
b\ the Constitutionalist government
during the recent revolution may pre
sent their applications for reinstate
ment to their titles; that the mining
camps of Guanajuato were rapidly re
suming operations, and that General
Carranfa had ordered the beginning
of harbor Improvements at several
Pacific coast points.
AMERICAN SHOT ami killed
11 Y MKX It'A.N CUSTOMS GUARDS
KL I'ASO, TEX.. May 18.?Sergeant
Jlarry l'urman, a member of the ma
chine company of tho Twenty-third In
fantry. was shot and killed on Mexi
can soil, a mile Rnd a half east of
Juarez, to-day by Mexican customs
guards.
General Gavlra, Juarez commander,
nnd other Mexican ofllcials say Fur
ir.r.n crossed the international boun
dary in un Intoxicated condition, and
tired on the customs guard, and was
shut.
Furman's company commander says i
that a short time before tho shooting j
'the sergeant appeared perfectly sober.
General Bell detallod Major Moore and
Captain Graham, of the Twentieth In
fantry, to mako a Joint Investigation,
in company with a Mexican military
Judge and two officers named by Gen- |
eral Gavlra.
Tho investigation disclosed that
Furman. while searching for stray
mules, rode a horse on a ??trlp of Mexl
' cnn floil. Just north of tho Bio Grande,
by the ahlftlng of the river bed. He
wiu? armed with a pistol. American
army (men admit thjat. fhe vraa not .
wtfhin hts In peno'tratln# Mexl-1
pant ? ?ofL
A
President Intervenes
to Save Life of Lynch
WASHINGTON, May IS.? 1'renldent
\\ llxon, ucttntr at the rriiurat of
Senator (I'liormiiu, of ,\cw Vork.
Kent u meNHiiKtt to-nUtht tJiroufth the
SfiHe i)P|mrtinrnl to AinhniiMiidor
I'liRfi at l<undon, directing lilm to
makr fvrrv [tosslhlo effort to urcurr
n dfliif in the- execution of Ncnlrncr
of Jeremiah ('. l.ytM-li, of New Vork.
n niiturnllr.rri AomtI.hu, convicted by
ii court-niartlnl of heinK implicated
In flip Irldli u|irhl[iK In Dublin.
i CENSORSHIP OF llT
i KILLED BV COMMITTEE
I ' j
| By Vote of <1 to 2, Counciliuanio Body j
I)crirJc? to Allow Mayor to
Pass on Pirtures.
i
lTRTUKR II MAKING IS DKXIKD
Advocates of Ordinance Seek to'
Speak Again in Its Heliaif?Enp;
lisli Believes Public Morals Safe,
in Hands of City's Executive Head.
After hearing from owners of rno
| tion-picturo houses, who stated that
' their reels wero properly censored be
! fore corning to Richmond, and on the
; understanding that censorship would
j be undertaken atid carried through by
1 i he Mayor, the Council Ordinance
I Committee last night defeated the pro
| posed censorship ordinance by a vote
of C to 2.
There were two proposed ordinances
before the committee. Th?s Hrst was
to vest the power of censorship In the
Superintendent of City .Schools. The
second, a substitute for the first, was
to place the power In the hands of
three residents of the city, one of',
whom should be a woman. This sec- i
ontl ordinance vested the power of
appointment in the Judge of the Hub
tings Court.
; When argument last night was com-'
j pieted, Councilman Joseph H. Welsh,
! of .Jefferson Ward, moved the commtt
J tee to recommend to the City Council
i the rejection of bo?h propositions. The :
' vote on this motion was as follows: '
, Ayes?Messrs. Cheatwood, English, !
. Kergusson. Ladd, Welsh an<l Chairman
Ounst. Noes?Messrs. Christian and 1
i Paul. j
! COMMITTEE DECLINES TO
HEAR MOItE AltniJlBNT
Mrs. Georgia May Jobsnn, MIbb Adele
(Clarke, Rev. W. Ashury Christian, D. D..
; and ?/thers Interested in the passage
of ah ordinance for motion -picture
censorship were present. Dr. Chris
tian desired the committee to hear fur
ther from those favoring1 the passage
of a censorship ordinance, but il wan
pointed out to him that the committee j
had already heard from the proponents
at lennth. In two meetings.
? Alderman Paul offered several
J amendments to the second proposed !
, ordinance, whereby the salaries of the i
thr ee members of the board should be j
'reduced to $1,000. and under which the!
power of appointment should be vested
in tho Mayor Instead of in the Judge
! of the Huntings Court. He then ad-!
dressed himself to long argument In I
I favor of th* ordinance. Major Chris
? tian also spoke In favor of its pas
sage.
1 Councilman English said that he was
| In favor of the exhibition of decent
| pictures only, but urged the commit
j tea to display more confidence In the
| power and authority of the Mayor,
who, by letter to the committee and In
I conversation with its members, has
| said that proper censorship is now
: beinir exercised, and that tho power
I vested !r. him and m the Police De
| partment 1? nmply adequate to care
j for tho situation.
! f'lVF. MAYOR A CHANCE.
SAYS COUNCILMAN ENGLISH j
"We are now. under the changes In j
the city charter," said Mr. English.'
"trying to centralize authority so that '
we may hold certain oHicials and cer- i
tain departments responsible for the !
I proper exercise of that authority, and J
i yet. upon the heels of these changes
effected, there Is effort being made to
i multiply the number of hoards. Let
| us give the Mayor a chance."
i Chesley Toney, Moses D. llofheimer
and other owners of motion-picture
houses r.tated to the committee that
the passage of the proposed ordinance
: wuld work a hardship on them, and
j said that they nnd all other rnotion
! picture theater proprietors exercised
the greatest care in selecting their
reels. Mr. Toney said that when he
was doubtful as to the propriety of
exhibiting a ecrtain reel, ho notified
the police and asked them to pass
judgment. Mr. Hofheimer said he would
he willing for any committee to pass
: upon the reels displayed in his theater.
Clerk Alfred H. McDowell read to
| the committee a letter from Congress
! man A. J. Montague, saying that the
: bill for a national censorship board, j
pending in Congress, probably would !
not be acted upon during this session.
Creed DaviB, a member of the Board
of Police Commissioners, presented a
letter from tho Bible class of Cente
nary Methodist Church, asking that a
board of "movie" censors bo estab
lished. Mr. English asked the com
mittee to show greator confidence In
the Mayor, and the vote defeating the
ordinanoo was taken.
ASKS HOSPITAL ROOM
I'Ofl USE OF FIREMEN
Captain Charles F. Taylor, member
and former chairman of the Board of
Fire Commissioners, petitioned the
commltteo to recommend to tho City
Council and to the Administrative
Board an ordinance providing for the
maintenance in Virginia Hospital of
a room for tho emorgent need of fire
men. Captain Taylor said that he had
not been appointed by the hoard or
by any body of firemen to make his
representations, and that he did so
on his own initiative, as a friend of
the firemen. On the motion of Kub
ehairman Fergusson, the City Attor
ney was requested io draw up n proper
ordinance of agreement between the
Administrative Board and tho authori
ties of the Medical College of Vir
ginia for tho establishment and matn
(Oontihu?!d""on Third Page.)
VETERANS' PARADE
CLIMAX OE REUNION
Surviving Soldiers of Confeder- |
acy March in Review Before
Thousands of Spectators.
VIRGINIA IN PLACE OF HONOR;
Richmond Blues, Grays and Boy
Scouts' Fife and Bugle Corps i
Enthusiastically Cheered.
]
i
BIRMINGHAM. AI^A.. May IS.?Tho j
twenty-sixth annual Reunion of tho'
United Confederal* Veterans became I
history when the pray-uniformed sur- J
vivors of the Army of the South passed J
In raviow in their grand parade this]
afternoon. It was the closing scene of 1
one of tho most successful gatherings!
ever held by the organization, and wan =
witnessed by fens of thousands of cit- '
izens and vlsttors.
Washington will entertain the South- :
erner.H next year, but there will b?
fewer veterans there. According toj
Adjutant-Genera! Mickle, death is re - 1
ducing the ranks at tho rate of 14 per '
cent u year. Those who can go. how- t
ever, anticipate "marching: down Penn
sylvania Avenue and being reviewed by '?
a Democratic President."
Following tho parade in the after
noon a brigade of Texas veterans, com
manded by Colonel Vlk Reinhardt. and
several companies of the Alabama Na
tional Guard, commanded by Major
Seals, fought a sham battle at the fair
grounds.
To-night numerous special trains are
scattering the veterans and visitors to
their homes in all sections of the South.
(STREETS A RIOT OF COLOR
DURING THE PARADE
The rtrcets were a riot of color dur
ing the parade to-day, and the march
ing veterans showed remarkable en
thusiasm and vigor. As each depart
ment commander and staff reached the
stand from which General Young and i
his staff woro reviewing the parade. J
they took up a position at the right of I
the sreneral stafT. The matchers were
two hours and twenty minuses passing
the stand, and comparatively few old
soldiers wero compelled to withdraw on
account of fatigue.
The South Carolina men attracted a;
large share of attention, their pal- |
metto flag being conspicuous. The larg- i
est delegations were from Virginia. !
Georgia. Alabama and Tennessee Four !
automobiles filled with men in tho fan- :
tastic. disguise of the "Ku - Klux" I
brought up tho rear.
John A. Wood, 101 year.1? old. and i
claiming to be the most aged veteran 1
at the reunion, rode in a car by him- '
self.
I
(iRKETEll WITH CHEERS
ALL, AIiO.\G LINE OF MARCH
To show the public they were far
from their last annual reunion gath
ering. hundreds of the old soldiers In
dulged In dancing as they passed in re
view at the end of their long march,
bringing wild cheering from the crowds.
Cheers and the old rebel yell yip-yip
resounded from sidewalk to sidewalk
all along the line of march.
Battle-scarred flags were borne t>y
many companies In the various com
mands. Negro body servants who had
served with their masters in the Civil
War marched again by tholr tides to
day, and there were many women, too,
who marched along with their hus-1
bands, veterans, manifestly proud of
the opportunity.
The gnyely of the grand reunion hall :
was marred last ntpiil by tho death of
John A. Mackey, aged seventy-five, of
Birmingham, a veteran. Me expired on
the ballroom floor just after telling- a
party of young people that when he
died ho "would like to go amid a scen?
of such happiness." The body was re
moved quickly, and comparatively few
of the dancers knew of the occurrence, j
Birmingham's resolution to care fori
old veterans first has resulted in few!
accidents and rases of illness Plenty
of cots were furnished in the down- |
town buildings and at the camp at the i
fair grounds. At the latter place the |
soldiers were placed in the buildings,'
and more than 4,500 men were cared
for.
GEN. HARRISON ISSUES
FIRST OFFICIAL ORDER
General George P. Harrison, the new
commander of the Confederate vet
erans, issued his first official order to
day in which he says:
"In compliance with the wish of my
Confederate comrades, as expressed in
convention yesterday, the undersigned
hereby assumes command of this as
sociation. Relying on tho loyal sup
port of his beloved associates and
trusting in the mercy and goodness of
God, he hopes to keep the prosperity j
and usefulness of the order.
"Comrade William K. Mickle will ;
continue as Adjutant-General and the |
chief-of-staff with the rank of major- !
general."
The retiring commander, General
Bennott H. Young, to-night sent the
following message to President Wil
son:
"To the President:
"Tho United Confederate Veterans In
annual convention by unanimous vote
wish to commend and indorse your
conduct in keeping our country so far
in honorable peacc. At tho same time
they pledge you their cordial support
to maintain at all times the dignity
and honor of your government."
ENTKCSIASTIC GREETING
FOR RICHMOND COMPANIES
[By a Staff Correspondent.3
BIRMINGHAM. AUA., May 18.?With
more than 1GG.OOO people crowding tho
streets almost to suffocation this after
noon for the grand parade, which was
tho final event of the twenty-sixth
annual Reunion of the United Confed
erate Veterans, thousands upon thou
sands of voices rang out in ear-split
ting cheers as tho Richmond Light In
fantry Blues' provisional company, the
Richmond Grays' Battalion and tho
fife, drum and bugle corps ot the Boy
(Continued on Second Pajjo.)
\i
ADMINISTRATION LOSES
FIRST SKIRMISH ON NAVY
Inspectors making up their mlnils how to attack the grt.at task of clearing uvvay the mountain of debris
which the Irish rebellion left in Princess Street, Dublin.
BAPTISTS, IN MEETING,
QUICKLY RAISE 130,344
Southern Convention Seeks to Wipe
Out Foreign Mission Board's
Debt of $180,000.
WOMAN GIVES DIAMOND RING
Officers and Delegates Promise to
Obtain Full Amount by Friday
i Night ? Great Enthusiasm Dis
played Following Dr. Love's Talk.
ASHE VILLE, X. C? May 3 8 ?Swept
by a wave of enthusiasm that started
with a gift of $25. when Rev. J. F.
Love, D. D., secretary of the board of
foreign missions, was explaining how
the board had piled up a debt of
$1S0,000 this year, the Southern Bap- ]
tist Convention In session here raised I
$30,344 before adjournment, shortly
after midnight, towards clearing' off
the debt, and its officers and delegates
promised to raise the full amount hy
Friday night, and said they then
then would seek to raise the $72,000
debt facing the home mission board.
Texas delegates promised to try to
raise $20,000 of the foreign mission
board debt, in addition to the 580,000
pledges announced from the platform.
The money was raised without any
apparent prearranged plan after the
committees to whom the question of
the debt had been referred had recom
mended stringent economy for the en
suing year. Delegates and foreign
missionaries home on furlough had told
of their work and expenses. l>r. Love
then asked the privilege of explain
ing that the necessity of keeping up
the educational work In foreign fields
had forced the board to go into debt
this year. The $25 contribution came
from a man whoso name could not be
learned. .Joshua B. Levering, of Bal
timore. former president of the boardj
offered $5,000, on the condition that the
entire fund be raised within sixty days.
M. 11. Wolfe, who was defeated for the
presidency, here with the Texan dele
gation, promised to try to raise $2O.O0i>
in all.
A woman sent a diamond ring to the
platform, and contributions ranging
from $5 in cash to $1,000 pledges hegan
pouring in. Various State delegations
promised amounts of from $5,000 to
$10,000, and it was announced that other
State delegations would announce their
pledge after meeting Friday.
Rev. J. L. Gross, of Houston, Tex.,
announced that telegrams would he
sent over the South to-night asking
aid and, in delivering the benediction,
prayed that "God may bless the wires
of the Associated Press as thev flash
this news throughout the country."
PI,AN TO BRING 11USSIANS
INTO THE BAPTIST CIIl'HCH
Plans to send missionaries to German
and Austrian prison camps, to attempt
to convert to the Baptist faith the
"2,000,0011 Russian prisoners of war"
held there, were outlined.to the conven
tion late to-day at. a session devoted
chiefly to hearing experiences of mis
sionaries returned from foreign fields.
The idea of converting war prisoners
was advanced by a native Russian,
known in the country as Poller, who
told the convention that he had been
banished from Russia because of his
religious activities after adopting the
Baptist faith in Petrograd.
"After the war we can build churches
in Russia." Poller said, "but now >-e
must take advantage of an opportunity
wo never may have again in a thou
sand years; and convert these Russians
in prison. It we can convert them to
our Christian faith, they will create
such a rollgious awakening when they
go home after the ivar as tho world
never has Been."
No formal action was taken on tho
HUggestlon, hut many delegates to tho
convention wept as Fetler described
"religious persecutions in Russia of
Jews and Baptists alike."
PA VOItS PLAN TO AI1>
?IITDSON 31 KMORlAIi CIIDRCn
The convention went on record as
Indorsing; a projcct brought to It by
Rev. Arthur T. Brooks, of Judson Me
(Ooirtinued on Third PagoT)
Condition of Treasury as
Reported by McAdoo
Is Pleasant Surprise
Much Less Revenue Re
quired to Meet Prepared
ness anJ Other Needs
Than Supposed.
WASHINGTON. May IS.?Secretary
McAdoo to-day submitted to Chairman
| Kitchln. of the House Ways and Means
I Committee, and Chairman Simmons, of
the Senate Finance Committee, a - re
vised estimate of the government's re
ceipts and expenditures for the re
mainder of the current fiscal year and
j the fiscal year ending Juno 30. 1917,
! tending to show that much less new
! revenue will have to be raised to meet
j the preparednens and other largo ex
j pendlturcs than bad been supposd.
Only about J15U,'->00.000 in additional
revenue will have to be provided during
the coming year, Mr. McAdoo said.
Tills is les-'s by $75,000,000 than the
moat conservative members of Congress
jcalculated a? the outset of the session
i would be needed. All of the additional
j revenue will come from taxes on in
! come, inheritances and munitions. In
; accordance with a plan approved last
| week by President Wilaoh.
News of tho condition of the Treas
j ury came as a pleasant surprise to
i members of the Ways and Means Com
I mittee. who have been pondering for
| weeks on tin*, framing of revenue meas
j urep A meeting of the Democratic
j members of tho committee quickly fol
t lowed the return of Mr. Kitchin to the
I Capitol, and later he announced that
, the revenue-raising' plan would he
whipped into shape within two weeks,
| and that the House would begin to
consider it immediately after the na
tional conventions.
It is probable that all of the revenue
measures, including provision for pre
paredness revenues, a tariff commission
j and the encouragement of tho dyeetuffs
j Industry, will lie Included in an omni
bus bill. The President is understood
to favor that plan.
SOM'TION OK I'HORI.KM
\VOria> HASTEN ADJOURNMENT
Solution of tho revenue problem, Mr.
Kitchin believes, would go far towards
making an enrly adjournment of Con
press possible. Ho tokl the Ways and
i Means conferees that nothing would
j prevent him putting the legislative pro
| gram through the House, so as to be
! ready to adjouru on August 1. The
| Senate, however, may delay adjourn
ment by prolonged debate on some of
the big measures.
Secretary McAdoo's figures showed
that the balance in the general fund,
exclusive of disbursing officers' credits,
probably would be $ir.0,000,000 at tho
end of the present fiscal year and
j $13,600,000 at the end of the tlscal year
j of 1017. This estimate Included ex
: pendltures likely to be made for tho
proposed Increase In the standing army
j and for next year's naval program, now
| before Congress. In addition, liberal
I provisions for good roods, rural credits
and flood prevention are included. In
making up the estimates the additional
cost to the country of preparedness
during the year 1917 waa placed at
from $90,000,000 to $190,000,000, a figure
probably considerably less than appro
priations to be authorised by Congress,
but approximating the sum which
actually would be spent during tho
year under the authorization.
An estimate compiled by Mr. McAdoo
last December showed a deficit of
$62,000,000 In the general fund June
30. 1917, instead of the $13.500,')00 bal
ance In the present entlmato. Tho
previous estimate oontemplated the ex
tension of the emergency revenue tax
to the end ot th? fiscal-year of JW1J?
The emergency measure expires by.
; limitation on December 31 next, and, in
l compiling the revised estimate, Mr. Mc
Adoo figured on eliminating the stapip I
| tax features of the trtcasur'e froth .Tulvl
1 next.
OTHER PROVISIONS INCH/DEO
IX KBVISBI1 ESTIMATES i
The $62,000,000 deficit which seemed j
! likely when Congress convened was;
; estimated on a basis that illd not in- j
elude provisions for good roads, rural i
credits or flood expenditures, all ofi
j which are included In the revised estl-j
| mate. It was then figured that Con-1
gross would have to raise $112,000,000,
j by additional legislation to bring tlio
I general fund balance up to the necos-1
sary $50,300,000 at the end of the next j
fiscal year. At to-day's confercnce Mr. |
MeAdoo told Messrs. Simmons and J
| Kitchin and Representatives Hull and |
| Rainey, who accompanied them, tliat,
| shoulil Congress provide $150,000,000
j additional revenue during 1917, the
| general fund balance at the end of the
I fiscal year of 1917 would bo approxi
j niatelv $163,500,000.
j Increases in Treasury receipts have
! been most marked in the Internal reve
j uue department. Ordinary revenues,
i placed at $272,000,300 for the fiscal year
! 1915 in the estimate of last December,
will approximate $303,000,000, an In
' crease of $31,000,000. Next year's ordl
I nary revenue receipts were placed In
! the previous estimate at about $265,
: OOu.OOO; In the revised estimate at about
i the same fierure as this year's. These
! revenues cover mainly the tax on dta
I tilled liquors. ciRrtrs. cigarettes and
i tohacco.
Revenue from the income tax will
; go over $100,000,000 this year, Secrc
I tary MeAdoo estimates, and certainly
| above $105,000,000 next year. Tlio
| previous estimate had placed this reve
; nui; at $85,000,000 and $90,000,000, re
| spectively. The increase of nearly
$50,000,000 in these two items of reve
j nuo alone this year is attributed to j
; general prosperity, to strict enforce-1
I inent of the Internal reveriuo laws and:
! the elimination of long-standing frauds
i in the payment of taxes on tobacco,!
. whisky and oleomargarine, by which
'.the government lost tens of millions
I of dollars.
EARTHQUAKE IN ITALY
i Violent Shock* Occur Along: Adriatic
I'onut Between Itiailnl und
C'rNrnu.
ROME. May 17 (via Paris, May IS).?
j An earthqunke of particular violence ,
has occurred along the Adriatic coast .
j between Rimtni and Cesena. At the j
i latter town a dozen people were In- :
j Jured by the fall of cornices.
] Father Alfani, director of the oh- j
| nervatory at Florence, predicts a re- ?
| petition of the earthquake, which ex- '
| tended to the Venetian provinces.
The entire central section of Italy I
was shaken by repeated earthquakes,
which lasted through Tuesday and
Wednesday. Only the most ine.iger de
tails have as yet been received in this
country, nnd It Is not known what
loss of life occurred, if any.
TO STOP SuilVJARINE WAR !
i
Representations Made to Germany by !
| Vatican. According to Sir Henry
Howard.
T.ON'OOX, May IS.?Sir Edward Gray,
j the Koroign Secretary, announced in !
, the House of Commons to-day that the
! government had been informed by Sir
I Henry Howard, British minister at the
Vatican, that representations have been
mades to Germany by the Vatican, with
a v\*rr to Indueln* Germany to-aban
don tubmartne w*r<ar?.
Breaks Deadlock by Autho
rizing Construction of
Five Battle Cruisers.
LATEST TYPE OF WARSHIPS
INSTEAD OF DREADNOUGHTS
Provides Also for Destroyers,
Submarines, Scout Cruisers
and Supply Ships.
ALL FOR 11> 1T FISCAL VKAJt
Carries Total of $240,000,000, I,ar?
. est Ever Presented to
Congress.
WASHINGTON, May IS.?Administra
tion forces in Congress lost the first
skirmish in the naval preparedness
campaign to-day, when the House com
mittee broke a five-day deadlock and
completed the naval appropriation bill
without approving the five-year build
ing program advocated by .President
Wilson and Secretary Daniels.
As rtnally agreed to, the bill author
izes the construction In 1917 of live bat
tle cruisers, as against two Dread
noughts and two battle cruisers recom
mended by Secretary Daniels; four scout
cruisers, an increase of one over the
department's program; ten destroyers,
us against fifteen recommended; twenty
submarines, three to bo SOO-ton boats,
compared with five fleet and twenty
five coast submersiblos recommended;
one hospital ship, one oil-fuel ship and
one ammunition ship. The gunboat
rccommenderi was stricken out. and the
fuel and ammunition r-hlps wero added
from Secretary Daniels's program for
| the second year.
The total amount carried by the bill
is 5240,000,000, the largest naval ap
propriation ever presented to Congress.
While the appropriation proposed is,
if anything, an increase over the de
partment's plans, failure of the five
year program and the fact that no
Dreadnoughts were provided for make
the. bill unsatisfactory to administra
tion officials Secretary Daniels said
to-night he never lost hope of getting
what he asked for until Congress ad
journed.
SKNATE IS (U31.IJ0D UPON
TO HUSTORU BATTLK9HIPS
I It wan clearly indicated that the
i Senate, which has not yet taken up
consideration of the naval bill even in
committee, was relied upon to restore
tho battleships. The Senate uever has
failed to increase the program for the
navy mapped out by tho House, and
I navy officials are confident that tho
bill will provldo for at least two bat
tleships and four battle cruisers.
j The deadock in tho House commit
' toe followed a caucus of the eight Re
publican members of the committee,
who decided to oppose the fivo-year
program and to seok to Increase tho.
1917 appropriations over the figure sug
gested by the department. Five of th?
thirteen Democrats not only opposed
tho continuing program, but also wero
determined to cut down the 1917 esti
mates and not to voto for any battle
ship appropriation. The final compro
mise was effected by Chairman Padgett,
with Representative Hensley, of Mis
souri, a leader of tho ao-called "llttlo
riRvy" Democrats, who induced the
other four to Join him in agreeing tq
the flve-battle-cruiser plan.
Chairman Padgett was compelled to
abandon the five-year project and
forced to accept a provision proponed
by Representative Hensley. authorizing
rho. President to call a conference of
world powers at tho conclusion of tho
European war to draw plans for an
international peace tribunal. An appro
priation of $200,000 for this purpose in
carried in tho section, which was
adopted unanimously, and It would au
thorize the President to appoint nlna
HtIr.t*na distinguished as lawyers and
peace advocates to represent the United
States.
COMI'UOMISK 'CAIIRIIOO HV
SOI.If> UNMOt UATIC VOTK
The compromise building program
was carried by the solid Democratic
vote of tho comtnitteo against the solid
Republican membership. The Republi
can program, agreed to by the minority
when the Democratic plan was learned,
was two battleships, six battle cruis
ers and six scout cruisers, fifty sub
marines, twenty-eight destroyers, two
gunbouts, one destroyer tender, two
fitpl-oll ships, .a supply ship, a naval
transport, a hospital ship, an ammuni
tion ship and a repair ship.
Representative Xtephons, of Califor
nia, Republican, offered a series of pro
posals, all of which wero defeated by
both Republican and Democratic votes.
They ranged from ten battleships to
eighty destroyers, and represented,
roughly figured, a total cost of $599.
000,000. Eight of the now submarines
and four destroyers are to be built
on tho Pacific Coast, if the cost of con
struction does not exceed Atlantic
Const prices by more 'han the addi
tional freight charges on material.
Minority Leader Kltcliln, of 'he
House, expressed great satisfaction
with the bill, and said It might be
brought up in the House rvnrt iwok,
.although other Democratic leader*
were not bopefal that & frruld M
