THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
JfPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAR
12 PAGES
PHOENIX, AitfZONA, FRIDAY MORNING, -MAY 19, 1016
12 PAGES
YOL. XX VII., NO. 1
P
m mm
ITALIANS HOLD BACK
AUSTRIANS FROM MOVE
UPON THEIR POSITIONS
PEACE LEAGUE
News That He Has Accepted
Invitation Sets Tongues
to Wagging About Early
Pface On Battle Fields
of Europe
LQ-r
- !
MAKING PLANS FOR I :
PREPAREDNESS PARADES ! Ln SolltlH'1'll 1 Vl'ol A IV 1 Cll-
acionslv Holding us-
FoRMFR PRESIDENT
HEADS ORGANIZATION
CHICAGO, May IS. The execu-
live committee of Hie Chicago
! ll (HiTlitn parade, which is en-
I deavoring to make June 3 "na- I
tional preiaredness day." stated 1
tonight that the mayors of New- I
: ark, Cleveland, Cairo, Los Ange- , j
les. Toledo, Houston. Des Moines, j
1 Dallas, St. Louis. Oklahoma, Kort j
Worth. Jersey City. New Orleans
I and Chicago have promised pre-
1 puredr.ess demonstrations . on that I
' day. ' !
trians from Making Fur-jAs Finallv Agreed to Hill
ther Inroad
Positions
In Theii
IWILL PROTECT AMERICAN
INTERESTS WHILE FURTHER
DISCUSSION IS CARRIED ON
ADMINISTRATION
LOSES SKIRMISH
ON NIL BILL
No Details of What He Will
Sav Have Been Disclosed,
But Fxpcded He Will
Have interesting Re
marks to Make
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, May IS Discussion I
of the possibility of an early restora- j
lion of 'eace in Kurope and of plans to
prevent war in the future wus given !
added impetus among diplomats and i
officials here today by an announce- j
ment at the White House that 1'resi-
dent Wilson had accepted an invitation
tn speak either Friday or Saturday of
next week before -s meeting of the
League to Enforce- ieace, of which
former President Taft is president.
Since tin outbreak of the Kuropean
war the president has declined many
invitations to speak before peace or
ganizations hut recently he advocated
of t!:e things lor which the
league to Knforce Peace is working
including the formation of a league of
nation with a common police force to
maintain peace, and the establishmen
of un international court of justice.
bile no details of what the presi
dent will say in his address next week
were disclosed, it is understood he will
make a statement on the t object of
peace calculated to attract deep inter
est )n I'urppeen eap'tals.
Attention was centered on the peace
ouestion here today liecause it was Hm
anniversary of the firsk Hague confer
ence observed bv meetings in several
itics of the ('nited States and in other
neutral nation celebrating the occas
ion. The Washington branch of the
v oman's pence party adopted resolu
tions urging the president to call a
i-oaference of neutial nations to try
"i en44.1t- ,v;.r. Tin rsf Intions reclt
ing Hie belief that only the proper of
fer of mediatory services was needed
to initiate the peace negotiations were
taken to the president.
Mr. Wilson is known to be giving
deep consideration to the possibility of
ringing about peace and to have made
a collection of very authoritative state
ments on the subject made by any re- the big measures
IBOMIUM offmp 1 in the belligerent na
tions since the outbreak of the war.
While officials realize that much of the
peace discrssion may be propaganda,
aimed to fix the responsibility for con
tinuing the war thev nevertheless be
lieve it is entirely possible that the
time a rrpidly approaching when peace
proposals may he welcomed by all the
belligerents.
It is believed that the only reason the
president has- not repented formally the
offer of mediation made soon after the
outbreak of the war is that he has re
garded it as best to wait until there
were rtjsoiable grounds for thinking
lhat such a step would be favorably
le.elved.
PALTRY SUM ALL
THATSECHETARY
NEEDS TO RAISE
'Republican A. P. Leased Wire ,
WASHINGTON, May is. Secretary
MeAdoo today submitted to Chairinun
Kitclrin of the house ways and means
committee and Chairman Simmons of
the senate finance committee, revised
estimates of the government's receipts
and expenditures for tne remainder of
the current fiscal year and the fiscal
year ending June 30. 1917, tending to
show that much less new revenue will
have to be raised to meet the bill for
preparedness and other large contem
plated expenditures than had been
supposed.
Only about $1. .0,000,000 in additional
revenue will have to be provided dur
ing the coming year. Mr. MeAdoo said
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
The Italians In Southern Tyrol now
are tenaciously holding back the Aus
trian from further inroads into their
positions. In. the Leilro valley, south
west of Trent, and in the Lagarina
valley, to the south of the city, the
Austrians after heavy artillery prep
aration threw violent attacks against
the Italian line but, most of them were
repulsed with heavy casualties accord
ing to Home.
Five attacks were made on Zegu
torta, the same number as were mad
Wednesday and again all of them
were stopped with sanguinary losses.
In the Adamello zone, to the west
of Trent, where previous gains have
been made by the. Italians. King Vic
tor Kmmanuel's men have occupied
additional territory in the Saraca rivet
region, and in' the Monefcone region,
near the gulf of Triest. have recap
tured trenches taken from them by the
Austrians last Monday.
Another ineffectual attempt has been
made by the Germans against the
French positions in the Avocourt wood
and on hill 304, to the northwest of
Verdun, l'uris reports lhat a strong
attack here was put down by the
French guns EUld that the Germans
appear to have suffered serious
losses.
On the remainder of the front in
France and Belgium aside from an
unsuccessful German infantry attack
against the Belgian north of Steen
strifete. there have been only bombard
ments. The British in Kgypt have carried
out a successful maneuver against
Authorizes 'oust rud ion
of Five Baltic Cruisers
Next Year. Making Great
Advance
LARGEST NAVAL
APPROPRIATION
Failure of the Five Year
Program .Makes the Bill
Unsatisfactory to Ad
ministration Officials, Na
val Officials ( 'onfidcnt
TO KEEP GUARDSMEN
ON PA YROLL ONE MONTH
Republican A. P. Leased Wire .arm ar,.l the second on the other.
DOCGLA3, Ariz.. May is. The j Recruiting agents will begin an
opper Queen Consolidated Mining; active campaign throughout Cochise
company and the Calumet & Arizona
Hiding company, owning mines in
Bisbee and smelters here, announced
through their managements today
county, iu which Douglas is situated.
Saturday, when the smallest settle
ments will be visited in an effort to
Well the ranks of tjie guard to war
This is less by $75,000,000 than the ' Turks and tribesmen
most conservative members of con
gress thought would be needed. All
of the additional revenue will come
from tuxes on incomes, inheritances
and munitions in accordance with a
plan approved last week by President
Wilson.
It is probable that all of the revenue
measures now before congress, includ
ing provision for preparedness reve
nues, a tariff commission and encour
agement of the dye-stuff industry will
be included in an omnibus bill. The
president is understood to favor tluit
plan.
Mr. Kitchin told the democrats of
the ways and means committee at a
meeting today that nothing would pre
vent him from putting the executive
program through the house so as to be
ready to adjourn on August 1. The
senate, however, may delay adjourn
ment by prolonged debate on some of
Bayoad and
Mageibra. putting them to flight and
destroying the camp at Bayoud
Austrian aeroplanes have dropped
bombs at Avlona. Albania, the only
seaport town on tile eastern Adriatic
remaining in the hands of the entente
allies. That Avlona probablv is well
fortified against an infantry attack is
indicated by the statement of the Aus
trian admiralty that the raiding air
craft were heavily shelled
Three German steamers have lieen
sunk in the Baltic sea by the entente
allies' submarines two by the Rus
sians and one by the British.
A BrKisT fishing smack at rived ai
Lowestoft reports having been shelled
by a German submarine, one member
of the crew being killed and two injured.
I Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, M-.ty 18. Adminis
tration forces in congress lost the
lirst skirmish in the 'naval prepared
ness campaign today when the house
committee broke a five-day deadlock
and completed the naval appropria
tion hill without approving the five
year building .program advocated by
President Wilson and Secretary Dan
iels. A.-, finally agreed to. the bill author
izes the construction in 191T of five
battle 1 misers, as against two dread
naughts and two battle cruisers rec
ommended by Secretary Daniels; four
scout cruisers, an increase of one
scout cruiser o'er the department's
program: ten destroyers, as against
fifteen recommended; twenty subma
rines, three to be sno-ton boats, com
pared with five fleet and twenty-five
coast defense submarines recom
mended; -ne hospital ship, one oil
fuel ship and one ammunition ship.
The gunboat recommended was
stricken out. Mid the fuel and am
munition ships were added from Sec
ret iv Daniels' program for the sec
ond year.
The total . amount carried bv the
mil fZW,Voa,wf me largest naval I
appropriation ev er presented to con-1
grass.
while the appropriation proposed
is. if anything, an increase over the
department's plans, failure of the five
year urogram and the fact that no
that any of their employes enlisting j strength. This work has been dele
in the Arizona National Guard would! gated to Lieutenants M. H. Blome and
In- paid full time for thirty days.
While they will not be paid after that
period, their positions will be. held for
them whenever they are freed from
duty.
Captain S. J. Morris, medical corps
sanitary inspector and medical offi
cer for the' guardsmen, began today
innoculating the men, company by
company, for typhoid fever, and vac-
O. E. Goetz.
Bisbee reports sav that forty re
cruits have come from there to join.
Company G of this city since tile en
listment campaign opened. It is now
hoped to raise a company there.
The first death among the militia
men occurred today when Private T.
Morris, Company B, Safford. passed
away. The body will be given mili-
cinating them for smallpox. Many ofitary honors and
the men who had not been vaccin-lfor shipment to
ated were given one treatment on one in;,.
MOT IN KILLING OF U.S.
escorted to the depot
Safforil Friday morn-
LThited States Government,
dust Now Is Considering
Further Measures for
Protection of American
Interests In Mexico
TR F V I N 0 S CAMPAIQ N
IS CLOSELY WATCHED
Offi'-ial Dispatches Say
That Mexican Bandits
Seem Likely to Be Caught
Between American and
Carranza Forces
SERGEANT I
Leased Wire
-Sergeant Harry
of the machine
Republican A. P.
BL PASO, May 18.-l-'urman.
a member
gun company of the Twenty-Third in
fantry, was shot and killed on Mexican j
soil a mile and a half easl of ,1 uarez nus
round up the stray mules he bad ridden
one of the wildest horses in the regi
ment, a feat he could not have accom
plished if he had not been sober.
Futman was serving his second en-
1 listment, having signed at the Colum-
Ohio. barracks. He has two sis-
today by Mexican customs guards. ters jn Brooklyn, N. V.. one of them
General Gavira Juarez, commander. Kami :. Un Fnh-i- :.t Kn a Mnnltnu
land other Mexican officials say r ur
! man crossed the international boundary
in an intoxicated condition and fired
on the customs guard before he was
made the target of their fire. Fur-
man's company commander says that
net.
General Gavira says that American
soldiers witnessed the shooting but
made no effort to return the fire of, the
Mexicans. At Camp Cotton tonight
it was Vaid that while shots were
British Submarines Active
LONDON. May IS. A large number
of British submarines art- operation in
Secretary McAdoo's figures showed ! the eastern anil southern portions of
that the balance in the general short- the Baltic sea. which now is ice-free,
age exclusive of disbursing officers' says a dispatch to the Kxchange Tele
credits, probably would be Jl. 70,000.000 graph company. It was one of these
i Continued
(Continued from Page Nine)
Page Three)
Orpet Jury Comes Slowly
nixa ii.ittx us wen- Moviiii-t tor. make 1 1 - --- .. ... 1
Hi- bill 1 n-uisfo-torv to adminisira- V V ' '""l heard nobody witnessed the incident,
in inn un. .iiiM.utorv 10 aumimsira- i before the shooting and that he up- t
lion officials. ... ,irfiimi, I
Mouse ami navy utti-ials arc con- ti. i.,i,, nm mmrtaJ ha
'idem that the final bill will provide r:nral Gariru 10 General Hell at Fori
I RepubPcan A. P. Leased Wi-e
WAUKKGAN. III.. May IS. This
was the fourth day of work in seek
ing a jury to try Will H. orpet, col-
iruilt or innocence. It was thought
that at least ten more days would.be
requited to fill the jury box.
It was learned lhat the defense,
which maintains that the school girl
MEXICAN TEACHERS HOME
Pepubbcan A. P. Leased Wire
TW YORK. May IK. Thirty-nine
Mexican school teachers. twenty
1 ight women and el-.-ven men, who
have been studying American methods
of teaching for several months sailef
from here today for Vera Cruz on the
steamship Monterey. The teachers
-aid they f id been called by the Mex
ican school authorities to resume their
work at home, which they expect to
uegia about June 1.
POSSE HAS MEXICAN
I Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN ANGKIo. Tex.. May IS. A
Khertfpf posse is on Its way to Ozona
with a Mexican charged with partic
ipation in the killing last Tuesday of
.larvls p. Harp. A telephone message
quoted the .des lean as saying he was
present when Harp was killed but
claims other Mexicans did the shoot
ing jlter Harp hud wounded him with
a pistol.
lege student, for the alleged murder j committed Miicide by taking a. power
of Kartell! Lambert. but results Iful poison, will introduce evidence as
seemed as far off as ever. j to Miss Lambert's last lesson in
Three men were tentatively lie- ohi-mistry at the high school the day
seated titer dozens of others had 'before she died. It dealt with carixm
been excused because they had formed i poisons, particularly cyanide of potas
strong opinions as to the defendant's sium.
TO CATCH THIEVES OF DOCUMENTS
SEYMOUR WIRE TAPPED BY POLICE
for at least two battleships and four
battle cruisers.
Thf dcadloi k -jn the bouse commit
tee followed a caucus of the eight
repu' ii an members of the commit
tee, .t which it was decided to op
pose the five year program and to
seek to increase the ttilt appropria
tions over the figure suggested by
the department. Five of the tlui1en
democrats not only o posed the con
tinuing program, but also were de
termined to cut down l4ie 1H1T esti
mnie and not to vote for any battle
ship appropriation. They were will
ing to support a four battle trustor
program, however, and the compro
mise was effected by Chairman Pad-
Bliss. General Bell detailed Major !
George U. Moore and Captain William i
Graham of the Twentieth infantry to
make a joint investigation in company !
with the Mexican military judge and j
two officers named by General Gavira. 1
This investigation disclosed that
Furman. while searching for stray
mules rode a horse upon a strip of
Mexican soil left north of the Hio
Grande left by the shifting river bed.
He was armed with a pistol. Ameri
can army men admit that he wus not
within his rights in penetrating Mexi
can soil.
His pistol had been recently firsd.
two chambers being empty. General
Bell said tonight he had absolutely 110
evidence 11 show whether Furman or
Kelt with Tteoreseiiln :i - Ifenslev off
Missouri, a leader of the so-called the Mexicans fired first. General Bell
"navy" democrats, who induced thelw'" report the matter to General Fun-
.,lh,- f,.r I,, ir.in him i., -.,.-..!.. I , I SI Oil .
TB
the
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK. May IS. The tele
phone wire of the law firm of Sey
mour & Seymour was lapped by the
police, Uistrict Attorney Swann as
serted tonight, not because they were
searching for a clue to a plot that
might result in international charges as
Mayor Mitchel and Police Commission
er Woods had intimated earlier in the
day, but because J. I'. Morgan and
Company had declared that official
beint
stolen from
Charge Of Misconduct
Placed Against Warden
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DKNVKR, Colo.. May 1$. Specific
charges of alleged misconduct were
contained in a second notice served
today on M. I'. Capp. warden of the
state reformatory at Bueno Vista by
Governor George A. Carlson, com
manding him to apiear al his office
at Id ocloik next Monday to show was chained to a heavy iron
iause why he should not be removed forced to remain several hour:
the salary of one who refused to con
tribute being cut.
That Capp violated the state law In
causing inmates to lie whipped and
"other brutal and inhumane punish
ment inflicted."
The governor rites one alleged inci
dent in which he charges an inmate
mi!
ex-
rom orfice. I osed to the cold.
After making the general charge of. That Capp permitted -gross im
neglect of duty, malfeasance in of- morality" was another charge,
fice and incompetency," the oomplalnt j The action is the outcome of exec
recites: lutive orders issued February II last
That Capp permitted inmates at and subsequent litigation whereby the
various times to escape and sent an governor sought to remove the war-
to hunt for den. Capp set up various reasons for
inmate to another state
an escap limine. (refusing the governor's order, all but
That Capp allowed contributions ( one of which that . specific charges
among the employes to defray the ex-,had not been made-were refused by
jiense of litigation resisting removal. ( the courts.
documents were
their office.
The. Morgan documents were givesj
to some one who had desk room in the
Seymour & "Seymour offices. Mr.
Swann declared, and who realized large
sums by selling the information 'they
contained to American munition manu
facturers. He made it clear that Sey
mour Hi Seymour had no connection
with this.
On the other hand. Mayor Mitchel
and Commissioner Woods, who prev
iously had apepared before the Thomp
son executive committee demanding a
hearing on the wire-tapping charges,
maintaining that the telephone wire
had been tapped in the regular lines of
police work, cqnfirmed in part the dis
trict attorney's story, but insisted that
their rather guarded report of a plot
still held good. Both issued formal
statements In which they decried the
investigation into the tapping of tele
phone wires not only because it had
disturbed telephone users but because
it has interfered with the police when
engaged in work touching the inter
ests of the t'nited States in interna
tional relations of our government.
District Attorney Swann made this
statement after he had appeared be
fore the Thompson committee in execu
tive session with Frederick Seymour,
a-member of the Seymour firm, and
Commissioner Woods.
lloth Mayor Mitchel anil Commis
sioner Woods confirmed the district at
torney's statement lhat Seymour A
Seymour were n no way involved. It
was brought out. however, that the
firm had acted as counsel for a large
munition manufacturer handling Mor
gan business.
in agreeing to
five battle cruisers plan.
To meet this concession. Chairman
Padgett was impelled to abandon
the five vear program, ami it was not
1 might to a vote in the committee,
as it was certain of defeat if the re
publicans and "little navy" democrats
combined. He was also forced to ac
cept a provision proposed by Repre
sentative llensk-v authorizing the.
president to call a conference of
Wiirld powers a! the conclusion of
the war to draw olans to form an
inlet national peace tribunal. An ap
propriation of $200,(100 for this pur
pose is carried in the section, which
was adopted unanimously, and it
authorized the president to appoint
nine citizens distinguished as peace
advocates to represent the I'nlteri
States.
The compromise building program
was tallied ,by the solid democratic
vote of tile committee and against the
solid republican members.
CHALLENGES CONFIDENCE VOTE
PARIS. May IS. Premier Briand, ill
the chamber of deputies today, ask
ing for a postponement of interpella
tions among them regarding the de
fense of Verdun, and another con
cerning the censorship, took occasion
entire Twenty -Third regiment 1
was upset tonight over the death of J
Sergeant Furman. He was one of the j
most popular men in the regiment, be- j
ing its crack machine gun operator, an
all around athlete and a fine horse- J
man.
The idea that the sergeant could j
have been intoxicated is scouted by of-
ficers and privates alike, it was said j
that shortly before Furman left lot
SECOND EXPEDITION
TO BE WITHDRAWN
MARATHON. Texas. May 18. ;
The American punitive expedition I
under the command of Colonel F.
W Sibley is to be withdrawn i
from Mexico after penetrating US
miles in search of the Glenn
Springs bandits, according to,
trustworthy reports brought here
tonight from Uoquillas. This step,!
it is said, was decided upon by
Colonel Sibley and Major Lang-
borne, who announced the rescue
of Jesse Deemer and Monroe
Payne, and are also said to have
received information of couriers
I that a large number of troops of
an unknown Mexican faction hid
been reported fifty miles to the
south. The expedition. which
i 'lumbers, only 400 cavalrymen.
' succeeded in its object of obtain-
! ing the release of the American
: captives, but army men here say
that with time'y reinforcements
it might have punished the ban-
I dits, who are still at large.
-a
COMPULSORY N NT
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, May! is Whilo
waiting the reopening of diplomatio
discussion with Carranza and results
of the military campaign against out
laws the United States government ia
i onsidering further measures for pro
tection of American interests in Mex
ico. Consul i. etcher of Chihuahua City
vill BO BSC to Washington with the bor
der American consuls 10 make a de
tailed reixirt to the state department.
No important military development in
Mexico or along the border was re
potted to Washington today. Officials
iliere are closely observing the campaign
ijeguu by General Trevino in Soittheni
and Western Chihuahua against th'j
outlaws who raided the Big Betid dis
trict. Official dispatches today stated
lhat Colonel Sibley in charge of the
pursiot of the oatlaws who raided
Glenn Springs and Boipiillas, had a
temporary base about f rty miles south
of the boundary. With Carranza troops
reported moving northward toward the
Coahtiila-Chihuabua border, army offi
cers believed it perns! Me that the ban
dits might iie caught between the Ca
rranza and American forces.
The rescue of Jesse Deemer and his
negro cook. Monroe Payne captured in
the Glenn Springs raid, was officially
coni iimed during the day.
State department dispatches indi
cated that the strike of Mexican rail
way employes was spreeding. Shop
employes at Piedras Negras were re
ported to have gone on a strike pre
venting movements of trains from the
south since May 14. It was also offi
cially reported that the railroad em
ployes in Guadalajara struck -May Hi.
and that Aguas Calientes was cut off
f.-om railroad communication because
of the strike.
The Mexican embassy tonight an
nounced the receipt of dispatches from
Mexico City saving construction bad
begun on the railway line which will
cross the states of Yucatan, Chiapas,
Campeclie and Tabasco from the Car
bbean f.ea to the Pacific. The ad
vices also stated that the National
Monetary Commission shortly would
promulgate regulations to become ef
fective June 1. to set forth the methods
;tnd basis of settlement of obligations
contracted for payment in metallic
money, before the issuance of the pres
ent paper currency; that offices had
been opened in the capital where claim
ants to oroj-efties seized by the consti
tutionalist government during the re
cent revolution may present their ap
plications for reinstatement to their ti
tles, lhat the mining camps of Guana
juato were rapidly resuming operations
and that General Carrania had ordered
the beginning of harbor improvements
at Guaymas. Mazatlan. Manznnillo and
such other of the Pacific coast ports
if Mexico as are in need of such work.
challenge the chamber to a vote
confidence.
ran Bins
MILITAI TRAINING DISCUSSED
I Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK. May IS. Men
prominence from various parts of the
lountry discussed here today at a
t-.
se things
even in
meeting of the Academy of Political arms through the maintenance
Science the question of compulsory small expert army,
an I voluntary military training for; "Alive all, let us reorganize our
national defense j present military force on a basis that
Dr. Theodore A. Christen of Cin- j will permit its enlargement, if ever
cinnati. formerly an officer in the, the need arises, without endangering
TO HI TODAY
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
.W'STIN. tW, May IS. Two Mex
icans. Jose Chapa, and Melijuiadas
Burrostro. will be hanged at Browns
ville tomorrow for complicity in the
bandit raids last summer, unless some
extraordinary legal move obtains a
respite for the condemned men.
It was announced officially here
late today that Governor James K.
rerguson will not interfere 10 pre
vent the executions. Chapa and Bur
rostro were convicted of the murder
of Charles Austin and hi.- son in
Cameron county last August, in the
early stages of the border troubles in
that district.
BwiSS army, declared that "the mob
ilization of the Swiss army in August.
l'.iH. in its total strength of 106,000
men. or 9 per cent of the country's
population, which would corresjamd
to 9,000.000 for the same proportion
in this country, carried through in
fOrty-eight hours and was such a suc
cess that it saved Switzerland from
the Tate of Belgium.
"Swiss preparedness." he added,
"has been going on since 181.1, and
has been no menace to Swiss libert
and individual right."
John P. White, president of the
United Mine Workers of Ameiica.
sent a paper which was read before
the academy.
"The proposal to establish compul
son military service in
Funston in the Dark
SAN ANTONIO, May IV General
("unstop said tonight he had received
no instructions to go to El Paso to meet
American consuls from Mexico to dis
cuss the Mexican situation nor had ho
received an official communication re
garding a reported conference with
them.
DOCGLAS. Ariz.. May IS. General
Elias Calles commander-in-chief of
the de facto Mexican forces in Son
ora. is reported among his close
friends to be preparing to petition
the I'nited States government to lift
the embargo on war munitions for a
short time on the plea that the troops
in the Yaqui River valley need cart
ridges and artillery shells.
It is admitted that the army in the
ways fight any considerable extension """hern part ot sonora has a large
of our military forces so lomr as thereerv ,,f cartridges and shells for
army and navy are ruled by a das
and a caste."
insist that as much of tho
,r we love shall be preserved.
War. as can be preserved.
"Lt us keel- up our navy. Let us
keep alive among us the science of
of a
democrath leagues in America. Leave
even other uiijection. labor will ai
artillery, but only evasive answers
(Continued on Page Three)
Carranza Troops Moving
Along Communication Lines
IR-eoubl.can A. P. Leased Wire
CiiLUMKI'S. N. M., May IS. A
eneral "movement of Carranza troops
this country I 'K onfler way along the American line
is the saddest and most abject Atr- 6f communication in Mexico, accord
render of American ideals ever pro
rosed in ti'is country." declared Mr.
White.
"Labor- knows a better way. Es
tablish industrial freedom: abolish
privilege: give the workers a voice
in determining wages and conditions
ing to private advices received here
tor.ightT
These movements, it was said, are
a part of the redisposition of the
Mexican ' ommands as a result of the
Scott -Obregon conference at F.l Paso,
and are being made cnincidentally
ami with lhat voice a responsibility J with the American movement toward
I the border. From military bead
j quarters here came a statement to-
msfnt that none of the American
movements look toward a general
withdrawal of the expeditionary com
mand. A field ambulance and medical of
ficers rushing south across the bor
der tonight gave rise to a rumor that
a .-.mmand at Kspia had been en
gaged. It was said, however, that a
soldier had been shot by comrade,
and that no medical aid was avail
able at Espia.
