1 tîE
Courier
VOLUME XIII
GLASGOW, VALLEY COUNTY, MONTANA, MAY 19, 1916.
NUMBER 3
REJECT FILINGS
ON STATE LAND
Bill Pending in Congress to Set
tie Controversy. '
SCHOOL FUNDS AFFECTED
Land Office Turns Down Filings of
Settlers. State's Position
Defined.
The hundreds of people in this part
of the state who filed on the state land
recently will be interested in an ar
ticle which appeared in this morn
ing's Helena Record-Herald. The
Article follows.
"Taking advantage of a legal tan
gle apparently placing in jeopardy
state lands yielding a perpetual in
come of from $5,000,000 to $6,000,
000 to the schools of Montana, pro
fessional locators, it is charged, are
placing hundreds of settlers upon
the state's reserve of half a million
acres in the northern part of Sher
idan and Valley counties. A bill is
now pending in congress, however, to
straighten this tangle and when it
j>asses the claimants will be ejected.
The state court of Washington held
that a state could not relinquish ün
surveyed school land within forest re
serves and take lands in lieu of it
lying outside the reserve, unless it
received for the relinquished lands the
price fixed in the constitution. The
general land office has always held
that a state grant did not attach un
til the land was identified by 9 gov
ernment survey. It was under this
construction that the exchanges were
made in Montana and the state re
ceived the lieu lands in northern Mon
tana.
Because of the decision in the state
. a. j m
of Washington, the general land of
fice has declined to issue patents to
lieu lands until the point has been
passed upon by the supreme court of
the United States, or until it has been
cleared up by appropriate legislation.
Bills are now pending in congress pro
viding for the adjudication of state
selections, and the state land board
has adopted resolutions urging the»-:
passage.
The position of the state land board
is set forth in the following state-1
ment made by Sidney Miller, register
of the state land office:
"The movement in the northeastern
part of the state by settlers going
upon state lands is the result of a
mistaken idea on the part of the set-|
tiers, aided and abetted by profes
sional locators, who are working fori
a fee. These lands were selected by
the state as indemnity school lands,
in lieu of school lands that the state
loses by reason of the creation of the
national forest reserves. It was con-1
sidered a better policy, both from .the!
federal and state view point, to per
mit the federal authorities to have
absolute jurisdiction in the adminis
tration of the national forest reserves.
The state accordingly relinquished the
unsurveyed school land in these re
serves that for the most part are
broken and mountainous, and of little
value, and selected in lieu thereof de
sirable agricultural land. It was a
good trade for the state.
"The question that has been raised
by these locators, and their attorneys,
is as to the authority of the state to
relinquish such lands within the na
tional forest reserves that would
when surveyed, be school lands, arid
their position is based upon a decision
of a local court in the state of Wash
ington, and a state court in California
and Idaho. - «*- • " *
"These settlers have offered their
filings at the local offices, and the
same have been rejected. To keep their
filings alive they have made appeal
to the commissioner of the general
land office at Washington, who in
turn has sustained the register and
receiver in rejecting their applica
tions. In some cases appeal has been
taken to the secretary of the interior,
in the meantime these applicants,
through their attorneys, have peti
tioned the state board of land com
missioners to waive its rights to these
selections that they might perfect
their claim, but the board does not
take kindly to these petitions.
"In the Scobey district, where bona
fide setlement was made upon the
lands withdrawn, under the applica
tion of the state for survey and such
settlement was continued in good
faith, with substantial improvements,
the state land board, has waived its
rights, and in this district alone, more
than 200 claimants have been unmo
lested in their possessions. The state
has been very considerate and indul
gent with this class of settlers, and it
will resist to its utmost every effort
that is .made by these locators to take
from the state any of its cshool land
selections, which might mean a loss to
the school children of the state of a
perpetual income from five or six mil
lion dollars."
LOWER COURT REVERSED
A decision of ipterest to the people
of the city, has been handed down by
Judge John J. Tatten, in the district
court of the Twelfth Judicial district.
The ruling sets aside the peace bond
of $2,500.00 imposed upop George F.
Burke by L. P. Evans in the Justice
Court here last fall. The Court held
that Justice Evans was without jur
isdiction to issue any warrant, as he
lost jurisdiction when an affidavit waB
filed by Burke, disqualifying him.
The decision also granted Burke judg
ment against Justice Evans for his
costs and disbursements in the ac
tion.
LOCAL BOYS WIN
The Glasgow High School track
team scored two points at the annu
al inter-scholastic meet at Missoula
last week. Heiland scored these
when he threw the javelin for fourth
place in the finals.
Calvin Rogers brought additional
honors home when he was awarded
the second prize in the oratorical con
vest.
SUNDAY SERVICE
ON G. N. ORDERED
Northern Montana Towns Affected
by Recent Decision.
Those towns in northern Montana
who are now without train service of
any kind on Sunday will be interest
. . . . . , , ,
ed in the decision made Wednesday
..... . , . . *
by the Montana railroad commission,
ordering the Great Northern to fur
nish Sunday service within twenty
days.
The complaints and protests of the
towns whose service was affected by
the new schedule which left them with
out any passenger trains on Sunday,
cauged thfi rai , way commission to
ivfi them a hearing( and the result
0 f ^is was the order issued by the
commission.
The order directs the Great North
ern to operate local passenger trains
each way daily between Mondak and
G'/ go w and between Havre and Glas
gow, between Havre and Virden and
[between Moccasin and Lewistown.
Flag stops were ordered as follows:
Trains Nos. 3 and 4 at Oswego and
Nashua; train No. 4 at Dodson; train
No. 2 at Saco to let off passengers
from poihts south and west of Havre,
an< ^ to pick up passengers ^ for all
points east of Glasgow; train No. 3
Hinsdale and Warland.
Chairman Hall of the Commission,
a dissenting opinion, gave the fol
l° w > n g interview to the Helena Rec
ord-Herald.
^ ota
"I concur in the order of the ma
jority in this case, a^ far as it goes,
•but feel that in addition thereto, train
No. 2 should stop at Harlem, Dod
son, Hinsdale and Wolf Point to let
off passengers from points west and
south of Havre, and to pick up pas
sengers for points east of Culbertson
where said train stips."
The argument of the Great North
ern that Montana is not entitled to
Sunday local service because such ser
vice is not given in North Dakota or
Minnesota is answered with figures
obtained from the railroad commis
sion of North Dakota, which coin
pared with Montana figures, how the
Great Northern earns $571.23 more
per mile on passenger travel in Mon
tana than in North Dakota, while its
freight earnings are $1,496.58 great
er per mile in this state than in Da
Adducing other figures, the com
mission shows that intrastate passen
ger earning of the Great Northern in
Montana exceeds the Northern Paci
fic earnings in the sum of $92,807.09,
but on interstate passenger earnings
the Northern Pacific exceeds the
Great Northern in the sum of $598> .
374 go
./ The obvious deduction of the8e
comparisons," says the commission,!
, <is that the defendant has a gre&ter
ticket purehasing population strictly
intrastate, than the Northern Pacific
Most of these persons evidently hav j
no choice of competitive routes. How
ever, on interstate business where
choice of routes exists to a much
greater ' degree, the defendant does
not get the passenger business. The
defendant is itself responsible for
this condition."
COMMISSIONER PETER
WEST IS VINDICATED
Attempt to Oust County Commissioner Proves Fizzle and
Judge Throws Case Out of Court.
ÖLENDIVE JUDGE PRESIDES IN CASE
Judge C. C. Hurley of Glendire Called in By Judge Utter to Take
Charge of Hearing. Judge Rules Promptly at
Conclusion of Arguments.
The much talked of case in which Peter Peterson brought
charges against County Conratssioner Peter A. West for collect
ing illegal fees came up for haarjng in district court here last Fri
day morning. Judge P. N. Utter advised the attorney*! that he
had called in Judge C. C. Hurley of Glendive to take charge of
case which he continued until one o'clock of that afternoon.
At the appointed hour the case was resumed with Judge C. C.
Hurley presiding and a good part of the afternoon was taken up
in arguments by the attorneys, immediately upon the conclusion
of which, the judge ruled in favor of the defendant, Mr. West,
holding that he had not collected illegal fees in connection with his
office and dismissed the proceedings against him, remarking in
his opinion, that cases of this nature were oftimes brought more
for the purpose of "getting even" than from a standpoint of the
taxpayers' welfare.
Judge Hurley's decision was made directy from the bench
immediately following the concluding arguments of the attorneys
and leaves no room for doubt as to his opinion concerning the mo
tives behind the case brought against Commissioner West. The
decision follows:
"Well gentlemen, it occurs to me that the purpose of
section 9006 first, was to prevent an officer from extort
ing from the public or anyone else, more fees than the
law prescribed for the performance of some official act
or not only to protect the public from extortion but also
to prevent the officer from dealing fraudulently and it
would seem to me that the word "fees" as used in that
Section has a distinct meaning, separate and distinct
from "salaries" or "compensation" or "emoluments", and
while I don't know anything of. the circumstances sur
rounding this case, or the motives back of the proceed
ings, I do know though that proceedings of this kind are
instituted some times when they are not prompted by
patriotic motives or any particular regard for the in
terest of the tax-payers but instituted more for the pur
pose of getting even, and it seems to me that this sec
tion should receive a strict construction and I am going
to sustain the demurrer to the petition and also grant
the Motion to Quash, and dismiss the proceeding."
VANDALS AT FAIR GROUNDS
Since the buildings at the Fair
grounds were locked up, someone has
broken into the Secretary's office and
stolen a pinch bar and post hole dig
ger. Of course the parties who stole
these things and destroyed the pro
perty at the fair grounds should re
member that as taxpayers in Valley
County they are only destroying pro
perty in which they hold an interest
themselves, and they should be as will
ing to refrain from destroying and
stealvng material on the fair grounds,
just the same as they would on their
own property.
In speaking of these recent thefts
and destruction of property, Secre
tary Moore said:
"The fair association will be put
to considerable extra expense this
year repairing the damages done by
thoughtless persons since the fair
closed last fall, and this extra ex
pense will mean that much less mon
ey for the Association to us« in prem
ium money for farm products.
"The use' of the fair grounds by
anyone desiring it will not be refused
and if the parties will call at my of
fice in the Commercial Club rooms,
they can get the keys to the gate or
any of the buildings that they might
want to use. There is absolutely
no occasion for breaking the locks off
the doors or otherwise destroying the
buildings on the grounds."
PRIMARY EXPENSIVE
It cost Valey county approximate
ly $4.80 for each vote cast in the
county at the recent presidential pri
mary nominating election. From
figures compiled in the clerk and re
corder's office, it was shown that the
expense of holding the election was
$3,365.83. A total of 701 votes were
cast and this number divided into the
total cost, makes the cost to the coun
ty for each vote approximately $4.80.
If all the 2700 voters who are regis
tered had voted, the expense of the
election would not have been any
greater than it was, nor would the
expense have been decreased had a
less number of votes been cast.
COL. COLEMAN INTERVIEWED
During his recent visit to Havre,
Editor R. X. Lewis of the Havre Pro
moter cornered the Colonel and ob
tained an interesting interview from
him. Mr. Lewis was formerly a resi
dent of Glasgow, having been editor
of the Valley County Gazette when
Valley county was in its infancy. The
article in the Promoter follows:
"Col. Eugene Coleman, the oldest
active hotel man in northern Mon
tana, proprietor of the Coleman
House, Glasgow, for the past 25 years
and an active leader and advisor of
the cohorts of democracy during all
that time in northern Montana, spent
spent several hours in Havre yester
day.
"Time has dealth kindly with Col.
Coleman. It has mellowed him
silghtly; made more kindly his dis
position and reduced the hair spring
temper that once vibrated within
but beyond this there were no obvi
ous evidences that time had awept
over him. During the course of his
visit with the Promoter Col. Cote
man said:
"Havre, like other towns of North
ern Montana, has improved wonder
fully within the past few years. I
had the pleasure of driving over the
city with my old friend Dr. Wright,
and I was astounded at the changes
that have occurred here since I last
was in Havre.
"I think that Montanians at the
great fair in California were as much
surprised as any one at the showing
made by our exhibits, especially in
the realm of agriculture. The benefit
the state will ultimately reap as a
result is beyond calculation, but I
anticipate that the large number of
people who are now flocking into
Montana to buy lands can be traced
in a large measure to the exhibits
maintained by the state at the Cali
fornia fairs.
"No I have nothing to say on poli
tics. I am reticent in talking even
with representatives of the Democrat
ic press, and I violate no confidence
in saying that any time I am quoted
on politics in a Republican paper, the
interview sprang from thé fecund im
agination of a reporter whose shouldt.
grs were never galled with the yoke
of truth."
NEW COMPANY FORMED
Articles of Incorporation of the
Cooper Impulse Motor Co. of Glas
gow were filed at Helena this week,
the incorporators being Geo. J. Coop
er, T. A. Hauge, Sam Grossman,
Harry Hess and B. P. Langen. Geo.
J. Cooper is named as president of
the new concern, T. A. Hauge, Vice
President and B. P. Langen as Secre
tary-Treasurer. The company is
capitalized at $100,000, divided into
shares of $1 each.
Mr. Cooper, formerly in the employ
of the Greift Northern here has been
working on a gasoline engine of the
turbine type, which if perfected and
practical will revolutionize the manu
I facture of engines. He has been
I working for several years on a model
and last winter patented the principles
which are used in. the machine. 1 •
BAND PRACTICING
The Glasgow band held their regu
lar practice at the South Side school
building Tuesday night. The boys
were out in full force and a good
showing was made. They are get
ting into shape for the big celebra
tion at Opheim on the Fourth and
other engagements during the sum
mer. Anyone who plays any band
instrument and desires to join the or
ganization will be welcomed. Prac
tices are held every Tuesday and Fri
day evening in the basement of the
south side school house.
SENIORS TO APPEAR
IN CLASS PLAY
"The Taming of the Shrew" to be
Presented by High School.
The Seniors, as part of their com
mencement exercises, will present at
the High School Auditorium next
Thursday evening, May 25, the "Tam
ing of the ~ Shrew." Having decided
to give a Shakesperian production
in honor of the Shakespeare tercent
enary, they chose this laugh-provok
ing comedy as the proper vehicle for
their efforts, and under the able dir
ection of Miss Lind have been re
hearsing daily for several weeks.
The play itself is not one of the
most familiarly known of the list of
Shakespeare's productions, but never
theless it is one of the funniest. Bap
tista, a wealthy gentleman of Padua,
has two daughters, the elder, Kath
erine is the shrew. She has a temp
er that is about as safe and pleasant
to be near as a French powder fact
ory full of German spies. Bianca,
the younger, is quite all that could
be desired, and has many secret lov
ers. Father, however, with his eye
to the main chance, refuses to allow
any of them to even call on Bianca
until the vixenish Katherine is safe
ly married.
Hortensio, one of the admirers, per
suades a visiting friend Petruchio, to
court the shrewish Katherine, so that
the way may be open to Bianca. Pet
ruchio thinks of the bankroll that
goes with Katherine, and deciding it
will be easy money, starts in to tame
the shrew. Every married man and
prospective husband in Glasgow should
be on hand to see how it is done.
'Calvin Rogers as Petruchio and Dor
is Green as the shrew take the lead
ing parts.
j As to Bianea, acted by Angie Ill
man, she is not as safely secluded as
father Baptista thinks. Hortensio,
in the guise of a music teacher, man
ages to get into the presence of his
beloved, and incidentally into several
scrapes. One of his rivals, Lucentio
by name, disguises as a language
! teacher in order to gain admission to
I the home, As teachers in those days
were slaves, he exchanges clothing
and places with his servant Franio.
j The servant makes the most of his
opportunity, and gets some sweet re
venge upon his pseudo-servant, form
erly master. There are many ludic
rous situations.
I Margaret Anderson, as the widow,
1 finally captures one of Bianca's dis
appointed lovers. Ethel Pease takes
the part of the tailor who furnishes
some gowns that make considerable
trouble just as in real life. Other
parts are taken by underclass talent,
as the Seniors are not quite numer
I ous enough this year to handle it
alone.
There will undoubtedly be a packed
! house to laugh with the actors.
For Rent—One furnished room.—640
South 5th Ave. 3tl
GLASGOW WINS
OPENING GAME
Fast Nashua Team Defeated by
. 9 to 5 Score.
PLAY POPLAR ON SUNDAY
Both Teams Made Good Showing in
Sunday's Game. Locals Have
Good Pitching Staff.
The Glasgow baseball team started
the 1916 baseball season with flying
colors when it defeated Nashua last
Sunday on the local grounds by a
score 9 to 5.
Despite the cold weather and threat
ening showers, the local fans were out
in force and both the grandstand and
the bleachers were well filled and had
the weather been favorable there is
no doubt but what that a record crowd
would have attended.
The showing made by the local team
came up to the expectations of every
fan who was present. While it was
too cold for fast playing, and the fact
that practice had been almost im
possible on account of the weather,
every player performed in good form.
With the lineup Glasgow had Sunday,
they will be able to cope on even terms
with the strongest teams in this part
of the state. Spaulding and Reynolds
both showed class on the mound, and
when they get going, they will make
any team step some to beat them.
Several new players were in the
Nashua lineup. Funk playing in right
field and the Bland brothers are filling
the gaps left by the players who did
not return this season.
Puckett, the big right hander, op
posed Spaulding and pitched the en
tire nine innings. He was touched
up for nine hits, but his support wav
ered at times and the Glasgow slug
gers found him for hits in the pinch
es.
After the fifth inning Spaulding re
tired and Lefty Reynolds went in.
The little southpaw had the Indian
sign on the Nashua boys and only
one hit was garnered off him in the
three innings he tossed the pill. Hock
ing pitched the last inning and retir
ed the side on three infield hits, Jobst
picking two out of the dirt and heav
ing them to first.
The receiving end was well taken
care of by Hurly who showed mid
season form. He also responded with
a nice hit when it was needed. Jobst
played a nice game at the third sack,
(Continued on page 12.)
BOY CONFESSES MURDER
Ernest Arnold, of Bear Creek, a 15
year old boy has confessed to the
murder of Charles Steiner, a bach
elor rancher whose frozen body was
found by neighbors January 13, in a
hog pen near his cabin, twenty miles
southeast of Red Lodge.
In his confession Arnold stated
that he committed the crime unaided,
shooting the rancher from abmush.
The day following the {nurder he
returned to the raftch and ransacked
the pockets and the cabin of the dead
man.
On March 13th, young Arnold was
arrested on suspicion of having com
mitted the crime. He had in his pos
session a 32 calibre rifle exactly an
swering the description of the one
owned by the dead man. He said
he got it in a trade on New Year's
day, with a bohunk while he, the boy
was out hunting with a rifle tha( he
h^d borrowed a few days before from
a sheepherder.
At the preliminary examination on
March 29th, Arnold was bound over
to the district court on a charge of
murder in the first degree, but on
April 8th, he was released from cus
tody on a writ of habeas corpus.
Later the boy confessed his guilt.
TATTAN TO LEAVE G. N.
John J. Tattan, local agent for the
Great Northern at this point has ten
dered his resignation to take effect
June first, after which date Mr. Tat
tan will engage in business in this
city for himself.
The above announcement will no
doubt be a surprise to Mr. Tattan's
friends in this part of the state. Dur
ing the years that he acted as agent,
he performed his duties in an efficient
and able manner and gave excellent
satisfaction to the patrons of the
company.
His decision to enter business for
himself will meet with the hearty ap
proval of his friends and acquaint
ances, and the Great Northern will
lose one of its most efficient and best
men.
