. . .. THE EAGLE
Give, the. new. today. The others
We it tomorrow,
Ike
THB WEATHER.
Tonight and Saturday,, general!?
fair, warmer. . . -
AND PILOT
VOL XXX. NO. 120.
BRYAN, TEXAS, FRIDAY, MAY 19, 1916.
PRICE 4.00 PER ANNUM
TO Am.
m m i m r-. jy--vurjVjWtnnflAtJl
Pettijohns Bran Flour
A delicious natural laxative. A scienti
fic health flour. Physicians recommend it.
LARGE CANS 25c.
HARDY NEWTON
nrvv--vyvvvvvvvuaru-ij nxvuvwwuuuuvw
lEfflCAN
CLOSE TO
CILHIEN
BH FORCE
Bandit Leader Mas Force of 300 With 500 More
ITHICIANS
TO 111 FRONT
One Hundred and Fifty Transports Laden.With
Austrian and Hungarian Troops Are To Be
Sent To Albania. The Austrians Are Push
ing The Italians Back And in One Sector
Have Pushed Them Back on Italian Soil.
An American With French Aviation Corps
Destroyed A German Aeroplane. Germany
;Considers Submarine Matter Closed And
Will Not Reply to pur Last Note. Germans
. Making Desperate Attack at Verdun.
I
i
(Fly Amiorlatcd Press!
Paris, May 19. One Hundred and
War Tltr TUn fnvi'nrtn T) , l i; t , fifty steamers have been assembled
...v 'vmuwp ajJLUj,ttheHunflar,n,Mportef Flumet0
Through I lis Lines, but Do Not Know if,trn,prt troop' munitions and sup-
, A n M1 . plies under the protection of the Au-
Incy Are 1 art of His Force. Mexican Cow-tre-HunBarin ' ounm. ai-
T-" i . i i'. bania, according to a dispatch from
" 03OyS Tight iJandltS. Innsbruck... From this Information It
is believed the Austrians are planning
to attack Avlona, occupied by Italians.
tnjr AworfetMt press j wounding one and capturing six. It
Marathon. Tnu . May 19.-Uoaall.n , r(Wd tod The Uonrf
Hernandez, allied military and po- wer deIlvcred , ,he crranza M.
llthal free lance with three hundred UlorlUci 8t u8lk.ra A,PIUtro tom,n.
armed followers. Ih ramping near Iji- ua .n(l rm, rn- ,..,
tine border, and It Is believed destroy
ed a fort there, It was officially an
nounced. KI Arlsh Is on the TurkUh
line of communication from Eyrla to
Egypt
"""""""--" - i-i-,-i-mniin.n.i'LAAAAji.iLiLiL'
K V- 'O
An Old Word With a New Meaning.
Fresh, Staple and Fancy Groceries
No order bo large that its details escape our attention, or
bo small that we do not appreciate.
PHONE
54
sjDDB3D
PHONE
78
I
wWWlWIWWMIW.,W,WWI ,. L.u-l-J-irLnnjWul
MUST HAVE KEW
E
IN III
Future Government Must Be Con
ducted on an Entirely Dif
ferent System.
Dublin, May 13. rremler Asqulth
has reached the conclusion from Im
pressions gathered during his Irish
visit that the1 old form of government
In Ireland has had Its day. The As
sociated Press learns from sources In
the closest touch with the premier
FLETCHER WILL
SUCCEED BADGER
Washington, May 19. Admiral
Fletcher Is to succeed Rear Admiral
Badger, retired, on June 19, when Ad
miral Mayo succeeds him.
CITY COUNCIL MEEHNG.
Council to Aid Commercial Club In
Fight Against Raising Insur
ance Rates.
that Mr. Asqulth's conversations and Tbe r,&ulBr semi monthly meeting
conferences have convlnred him that !of ,he r,,y Council was held last night
guna de Jaro. 40 miles south of whore
enemies of the Americans and Car
American Destroyed Aeroolane.
, JBv AorUirl prMa.1
Paris. May . 19. Corporal Klff-i
Rockwell of Atlanta. Oa- a member
the American expedition camped yes ..., .. , , ,,,, T,,, 'of the American flying smia.lron. yes.
terday. Hemandei Is said to have a ni8,g the nun,0pP cf villlstas slsiln ' terday attaked a German aeroplane by capturing Magglo Rldse and enter-, offered greatly varied a
War Summary,
by AMOcl.ted Prett.;
Inm .in 1 111 ...I.
Austrian offensive on the Italian fro t 'he b Ivo'Sl 'n, , "V"?"
U meeting a st.fier resistance. heylfUCled 0n enl,re dle ' JZTJrtn 't '
, , . .. tern, absence on account of Illness of Mayor
are buii gaining ground, accormng to i.,. ,i. xu u to
the official statements. The latest The prime minister ha. Uken care' r Jh" ' J"
Vienna .report, show tha Allans arn the Ideas and view, of manyj "tV. ' -!l . ITT.
are progressing In the valley, south- i "ons other than those In purely .!; J STHmiS' L Sf
eaHt of Kovereto. crossing the frontier official circle, and these persons have I . C. O. Smith and Chief
.ue8tIon5.lC,erk of uL,,c uU1U,e G- P- Blttl8
tntal fnrr nf fi. hnn.ir.ut . . ... . ' ., ........... , . . Vnn r ihn. it i. -mi l.. lno meraoers or ine omciai
- - since tnc expedition started nearly ",ar nariiiianns-neiieraopi, uriiwi: ui iiaiiuu n-rruury as lar as i.osia-. ..v.cu, .....
his headriuarters. The Clenn Si.rinns two bunt,re,j ,nd flfty
nu iHiiiiuiiias ranters are aiii-jred to
have esrapin! tlirouuli his lines with-
'It down and burning It.
I-
Submarine Matter Closed.
"n Ao'i't'rt Prrn
board present.
A resolution was passed authorizing
" " . ' . L.,h . J. Ie secretary to prepare a letter to
me iiernians using ire.m troops in lne :,"" " .iiai iu ,o , , . . ,
I .... .. ....... . . ;.,. th. . ... -, .the Commercial Club tendertn
bella. which was cai.tured. There iiuoptea In It. entirety, but It Is
renewed a tlvlty at the Verdun front, ,,l'u8hl they might be welded to-
i attack on the Meuse between Avo ifore the pbneL The premier blm-i
iTlng the as-
slstance of the Council to that body
Villa Chanaes Name. !
out renlHlance. It Is not known KI Puso. TeNas. Mnr 1 :. Villa, tin-'
Whether Ihev srn a iiart .if hli Inn. I 1 .. . W'nslilnet.in. Mar If). tiernmnv ,...,,-4 w,..i ...j uni m- 1 self dues not knntr hf fnrm M nrn. I
'operating south of Parral. according ron''A"n he 'n.arine controverry fr(0,ng elsewhere. Paris says the,Ial eventually will take and In fart, TV? in.,.n . w
fowboy. and Bandit. Fight. J,0 , rurrenl , rhIhuahua ar. with the fnlted State, closed and-w HI '.ttacks were repulsed. f protably will be fully developed j ral" to:"
Br Aort.ted pr lrval. from there say. not resp.nd to the latest note, ac ' only at the cabinet meeting. I , , r 8tale "re ,n!,ura,'ce com"
: ' . . . . 1.1 ..... 1 . .1 .1 , ' I in. n i r . . . 1 .... mission.
new lieau'iuancrs, .Met.. .May 1. .uiumg u, iuiiiiu.niiui un'-s uuui ins unmi tisii gio gunu nun
Twenty-five Mexican cowlxys from I Released Villista. ( Berlin,
tbe Hearst ranch at Habrlcora, acat-J Columbus. N. M., May 19. Ninety!
tered a newly formed band of bandits Vllllstas captured In the Ojo Atulesj
ear Madera a woe ago. killing 13. engagement, have been released, ac
Lnrninff to returning civilians.
If
QUALITY
SERVICE
atid Sanitation
APPEAL TO YOU
Civ US Your Grocery Butl
ntit. COOlPER & COLE
Phones 32 and 386.
ROOSEVELT HITS
Bombarded El Arish.
fit AMoolat4 Prm
Ixindnn, May 19. Itrltlsh warships
and aeroplanes bombarded the town
of KI Arlsh. Kgypt. near the Pales-
Submarine War Tolls.
(by Alaoclatrd Praia
Berlin, Germany, May 19. Since
January 1, German and Austrian sub
marine, have sunk hostile ships with
to the premier that the llsterltes
would not accept a direct proposal Im
plying home rule, but It Is believed
they might be Induced to enter Into a
concerted pian wnicn possioir could rtollA Dmm in tmn ihui4 vti..
a total of 671.S00 tonnage, a news umBg t0 meet thelr mol .erl-lgraph. Helen Rose Gibson In a thrill-
AMUSEMENTS.
An extra good five-reel bill tonight
with the famous Harry T. Morey and
agency say.
ADMINISTRATION
ra
Declare. In Detroit Speech That Presl
dent Wilson Ha. Done Nothing
to Sustain Our Rights.
(By Associate Ptmb 1
Itrott. Mich. May 19 Col. T. R.
Roosevelt, In an address here to
day, reiterated hi. opposition "to all
kinds of hyphenated Americans." He
advocated universal military training
and service. He declared against the
"pork barrel- methods In" national de
fense and aald that the Wilson ad
ministration has taken no step for pre
paredness and had done nothing ef-
ARE IITED
To Participate In Bi-Centennlat Ex
position to Be Held In San An
tonio In 1918.
(By Aaaoclaiad Ptms.1
Washington, May 19. The senate
today pa.sed a Joint resolution au
thoring President Wilson to Invite
8aln and the other Ijitln nations to
participate In the Texas lll-Centennlsl
Kxposllion to be held In Sin Antonio,
Texas, In November, 191 i.
VISIT THE
MUSIC DEPARTMENT
AT
E. F. PARK'S STORE
You will find the latest Popular Song I lits, Rags and Dance Music
at 15 and 25 cents. A large Selection of Classical, and Sacred
Songs, and Instrumental Pieces. Songs of Carrie Jacobs liond and
others in complied form.
HAIL WAS SEVERE.
Cotton in Large Section Must Bt
Replanted.
Commissioner M. D. Kaster. of Kur
ten was In the city today and was
arranging to replant hla cotton be
cause of the hail of Wednesday night,
as early a. possible. Mr. Eastera aald
the hall covered a strip of country
several miles wide and five or six
mile, long, taking In pretty well all
the country around Kurten. It also
extended down Into a part of the Re
liance community. The cotton In the
territory covered by the hail was en
tirely destroyed and the corn very
seriously damaged. Mr. Easter, .ays
he doubt, that some of the corn will
come out Cotton seed for replanting
are very acarce and the farmer, are
experiencing difficulty In securing a
supply. However, they are .craping
the whole country for teed and In
Just a few day. the destroyed terri
tory will be replanted.
FINE STRAWBERRIES.
The editor I. under obligation, to
Rer. W. J. Mead, for a box of the
finest strawberries wo hare seen this
season. They were grown at Spring
dale, Ark., and Rev. Mead. Is agent
for them here. He sella them at 1
rents a box or $3 a crate of SI boxes.
Phone him at I'nlon Hotel.
ou. objections.
FRYERS BfejNQ BIO PRICE.
Mr. Antone Conrad of Kurten
brought II fryer, to Bryan today and
sold them for IT. 50. Mr. Conrad said
that he expected to get about $1.50
for them when he left home, but when I Mr. and Air. Sidney Drew In ah orlg
D. E. Mike, the groceryman weighed. Inal comedy-drama, with a special
Ing railroad drama, with a dandy com
edy to make you laugh, entitled.
"Safety Pint,' Thla la a fine bill to
night. See It sure. A special bill ha.
been arranged for tomorrow, matinee
from 1 to 1:30 only. The famou. lit
tle Jack Plckford In a beautiful three
act Sellg drama, "The Hard Way."
them and figured the weight at IS
cent, per pound, be handed him S7.S0.
He tried to give him part of the
money back, thinking he had made a
mistake, but was told that It was cor
rect. Mr. Conrad says he thinks he
will quit farming and raise chickens.
When you want a woman to do whrt
you want her to do, ask her to do
something else.
Vltagraph. Remember Jack Plckford
tomorrow afternoon only. Tomorrow
night. "The Eirth Man." Remember
tomorrow I. positively the last Ume
the Byran Spring Pageant will be ran
at the Queen, with a big feature, "A
Million Dollar Bribe." with 'Marquerlte
Snow and Hamilton Revelle.
J. W. Mathts wa. in the city thla
afternoon from Steep Hollow.
-- ri-ri-i-iir."."rri"i"ii irr'niii-i. innririrrinrmrrrrrr.'.'rrrrrrrrrrTrrrrrr,'rrM'rii'i) u wuulpjmijij
NOTICE.
Notice la hereby given to all who
are delinquent In the payment of
street taxes, that on next Monday.
May 22, complaint, wilt be riled and
warrants Issued for all who have not
paid. By paying now you can save
! trouble and cost.
W. W. HARRIS,
I (Mayor of Bryan.
ANWWIMIMIMIMMMW
FRESH GROCERIES
Usotho Phono
Satisfaction Guarantood
SANDERS BROS. .
Phones 512-104
FURNITURE!
ROM THE KITCHEN TO THE PARLOR
PRICES THAT WILL PLEASE
Inspect Our Stock
W. TJAMES, FURNITURE
liu .rii r n r rm irirrr nririnrirrnninr rrrt 4
