L v I
1
Cajc' i Water
KX.Z For
Gorernm't Test
Dening Air
100 peret. Pure
Breathln Test
A LIVK PAPER IN A LIVE TOWN
VOLUME XIV, KUJXEEB XXXVTIL
DKMINQ, LUNA COUNTY, NEW MEXICO, FRIDAY, MAY 19, 1910.
FIVE CNT8 THE COPY
a J l.liltuULl
III EDS O
Stand Second In Point of Numbort
and Here an Coming Into tho
Company Every Day
BUCKLED DOWN TO HARD WCRX
No Duty h Too Hard or Task Un
pleasant For Thtm When Good
of Sarvieo Demand! It.
Company "I" detrained at Colnm
bus nt 3 :,10 o'clock Friday afternoon
ii mid a driving tiand storm that ob
scured objects more than 100 yards
distant, except at short intervals.
The camp site a quarter of a mile
Houth of Columbus and went of the
grade rond was recently vacated by
other organizations that have gono
across the border into Mexico.
The Doming hoys had been equip
H-d with goggles before leaving home
ho they were prepared for the New
Mexico "rain" that came for three
day. Not so the "rookies" from the
north, however. The sand blinded
them and with the wind almost drove
I hem to distraction. They are
thoroughly disgusted with tho snnl
that sifts into the grub, bods, shoes
and clothing until it seems there is
no exciiH from grit and grime. Noth.
ing could phase the spirits of tb.
Dcmingitos, however, and they march
ed singing and joking through the
dirt.
Friday night was spent under
"pup" tents, as it was impossible to
erect tho pyramidal tents that night.
Tho next day wus spent in tent pitch
ing and (denning up the company's
pail of the camp.
Let it be said that Doming has don.
quite ns well in recruiting ns other
cities of New Mexico, under tho con
ditions, and it will not be long beforo
the company is wifely above tho
minimum strength. The regiment, is
fast approaching the minimum of the
required strength. Doming best
boys are now in the field, eager and
willing to perform any task which
will be in the field and when it will
be required is not known here. It is
not for them to auk. The men are
willing to stay until the safety of
the border is made secure for all
Mine, if it takes a year, and they will
go anywhere to aceomplisb this hap
py result.
While the men are now in the fed
eral service, they have not yet beei
swnnr in. Tins ceremony will prob
ably take place in the near future,
ohum! r (L.irovito iiwM.L twcHiJ
excefc:::sly m in kap
Our Popular Sheriff Has Perfect Ar
rangements for the Proper Pro
teetlon of Doming In Case of any
Emergency; Organization Complete
Sheriff W. C. Simpson is proving
his efficiency more and more every
dny and is demonstrating that the
county commissioners made no mis
take in npointing him to succeed one
of the bravest officers who ever wore
star, and with whom he had
worked on many hard cases.
The sheriff has the city divided
into four districts with competent
leaders for each one and is receiv
ing the heartiest cooperation of all
itixens.
LATEST LOCAL POLITICAL
DOPE OF INTEREST TO ALL
POITLAR CHARLIB HUGHES
Looks like he is, a there has no
ntlicr candidate vet for county clerk,
put n lint in tho ring with his. Ho
has made himself strong with all
classes and has conducted his bus
iness in a manner that pleases the
leopie.
While there will probably be no op
position to his re-nomination, he
would, of course, appreciate a good
vote nt the primaries June 6.
1CPGAR IIEPP
""T'nndllUVe'for conniy treasurer,
is one of tho real glad-handcrs of
the buneh. He knows everybody and
run call each member of the family
by name. He points with consid
erable prido to his official record
ami cordially invites nil good fol
lows in Lnnn county to join him on
IL II. BISHOP
One of tho old timers
of "Old
oilier fellows do the running for of
Hi p. His friends agreed to stay by
I) i it if ho would get into the race and
u auks them to make good when
.1. f ..!! ...1 Ct Ina nii'n.iimnnf mnv'
set it to do.' Down to tho last re- J'"" i" .111 ingliopp's name on the
emit, they are all working for that!'1 '' l'kl- ,
efficiency for which Company "I"
lias Iteen famous since its orgnnixu
tion. No duty is too hard, no tnsk
A .. 1.. . na t MtltAtl tllAtr
H (l lllllUUllrtlllll I Ill-Ill iuc;ii v T i .. . . . . ....
know it is for the best interests of 1A ,""t ', ,he P0,1.,"'n,
,ho unit. They all look forward to,'"'1 " ' 'rnVt ZTTl?
, ., , . i, Ins district, lie has been a res
,l,e time when they tha i strike h. onJ
enemy that is rcspons.blo for the w
murder oi our euixens, wun iunu
nny other soldiers here, they crave
this opportunity.
So many Dcming citixens visit the
.1.-. iL. I...... .. winl. '
camp ih mo a ipv ,o , U Jnnp fl
ixe, as other companies do, that they ,
are nt tho base of tho expeditionary , j0j w HYATT
force now on Mexican soil and liable i op one of ,ho
at any moment to be ""tod,
along the line of commnniention nr,
,7'T' rrried to the n.1 pe-rve the dignity
.t. .1 -.- n-i..-.!... i n pen'e f the people of Lnnn
of the stricken citizens of Columbus 1 tI 1 .....
" . . , . . n countv. He extends a cordial invi-
on the fatal morning of March ' . , ,
" - ... ?, , ., ... .. tation to a of his-friends to favor
nilll IOr llllK mtnuil, vuiuilliin lilia a i , . ... . A.. m t
; , . . .. , ' . , ... ,, 1 htm with a voto on the flth of June,
tender spot m its heart for the boys.
Saturday the regiment was priv- STUMP
ileged to honor Antonio Luccro, sec-1 . a. i jh
... i Can go nnvwherc, north, east, west
retary of state, , ander eseort of m. '
eral prominent Dem.ng c.tixen s. , Jo every tax-
A relative of tho state officer was ' .
. vitime of Villa's raid at Santa Yb- j,nv" " T"" l"? a-W, !
ML This is a reminder that three l,nr e)'"'hle adjustment
' . . of town and county property. He's
companies ... ni ' getting things in good shape and
Spanish-Amencans. They are qmt. t1ld(.mo(frnti, don.7mind,
s patno ,c as the Antfo-Ainmrana
anxious to make every sacrifice for,
the pronet nation of and extension or i , ' ... 1
American inslitntions. They are
proud and call themselves "Ilispnno-
M M R'Elll
Was One of the Mott Delightful Fea
tures of the School Year and
Will Ce Long Remembered
WITTY AFTER DINNER TALKS
Fine Six Course Dinner Was Served
te Which the Jolly Company
Did Ample Justice
Tho junior banquet and reception
to the seniors held in I lie gym last
rrdny evening was one. of tho most
delightful events of I lie school year.
The banquet, a most elaborate one,
was furnished by Fritx Ttiebior, in
six courses. 1. (.'oiisomme, rad
ihIich, sliced tomatoes. 'J. Boiled
halibut with egg sauce, Saratoga
hips. :i. It on. tt stulled turkey
with cruiihcrry nance, nspurugiis tips,
miiNhcd potatoes, raspberry ieo. 4,
Fruit Niilad, chueso chips. . Straw.
berry ice cream, usorted cake. 0,
Cafe noir, Roquefort cheese, Kent's
water crackers
The tables wero set in the form of
an "8," in honor of the seniors, red
and white carnations reprexentiiiK
lie class colors anil flowers. A
liue bouquet in n May basket, with
greetings to seniors and juniors,
wus Kent by Miss Lucille Bailey.
Following the bouquet F.lmo York
resided ns tiiiiNtiiiater, presontinv
each speaker by an appropriate in-
rodiii'lion. Tlioso who gave charm
ing responses were - nupt. laylor,
Mrs. J. It. Rogers, Priu. Una Bedi-
In k, Prof. KIIUou, Paul Henry,
'liivton Foulks, Beatrice llillU,
lyde Meyer, Herman Rosch, Wells
Rutherford, C'urlcton Clark, Cyril
Measduy and Olive Whitchill.
Miss Bedicbek's respoiiaO to tho
iit "Tragedies
merrimenl
on nun one great tragedy was to Kl1, si.,....,,... n:,.!. c,ln-i
laud before an intulligeiit uiidionce ) ,v
ml be expecteil to say something , Tl,..rJ.v nv.n!,,. M. n.(r,
...i 1....1 .....i.: o i. i
w 111:11 Jim iiiiii iiuiiiiiii iu Miiy.
VERY ISPCXTAXT
Santa Fe. N. M. Ht-ll
J. C. Watson,
Coming, N. M.
Cust have recruits for New
Kexlce National Coard Immed
lataty If wo are to maintain our
regimental organization in the
Federal service. Make every
effort to obtain recruits at once.
This Is extremely Important.
Try to see former members of 1
guard whs are not now In ser
vice. !
W. C. McDCNALD
fiovernor:
SEGTira OF STATE
I CIS A IDEE HIT
Empire Builders Like Denting Water
Ieming had tho honor Monday of
a visit from President E. P. Ripley,
of the Santa Fe system; vice-pres-
Mayor Nordhaus Host on Auto Trip
and President Maheney Host
at Harvey House Dinner
In 'order that the Soanish-Ainer-
dent V. B. Story, both of Chicago: jeans and narticularlv the refueee
irctieral manager F. C. Fox, of Am- who have come across the border
nrillo, flencrnl Superintendent C. H. should fully appreciate the intentions
Bristol, of La Junta, Col., and Oen- of the United States and our friend-
crnl Manager A. O. Wells, of Los v feeling toword all occupants of
Mis-eiiM. i American territory, New Mexico's
They were visiting terminal points Secret arv of State. Antonio Lucero.
end MtopNd over just long enough to; visited this region. Saturday, and
get some good Doming water. i was taken in hand by the Chamber
General Manager Tot voiced the 0f Commerce and Mnvor M. A. Nord-
senlimcnt of the party and aaid:! hnus. who planned verv imnortant
"General conditions look might v ; meetings to be addressed' by the sec-
ona- rctar'.
Come again good men when yon ( r,,on his arrival nt the union stu
nn stay longer. tmn Secretary Lucero was met by a
" " " committee and escorted around town
P""! or pf-,wPnniT mect "nends. At 10:5, Mayor
imin ui UUininLhbLllilMI Xor.thnus loaded the Secretary of
retury I.nne of the Chamber of Com
merce, Dr. 8. D. Swope, of the Luna
County Road Board, and Editors Val
Inndiuhnm and Holt into his big now
White, which Secretary I.tu-cro pro
lioiilieed the llnrt ear in New Mexico,
and proceeded to the Tros Hermanns
iniiicx, now owned nud operated by
the Maboney-Clnrk Co., the Swiqie-A.iiiv-Schultx
Co., and the Big Four
Kxploration Co., managed by John V.
II. Blee. Walter Clark opened up
(lie Mnboiicy. Clark cottage to the
party, where Dr. Swoic wns host at
I Enlistment Roll of Honor
Following is the new enrollment
I list of recruits up to Thursday even -j
ing. May 18:
j Albert A. Dobbs, Stephen A. Doug
' Ins, James B. Cullom, James G. La air-
ham, Marshall M. Leach, Elmer A.
Antonio Lucero Visits Doming, Tw ; i"",' v. Mudie, charie
u a i -t. j . Whntely, Jefferson J. Temple, and
HormanaS and COMimDUO and IJnmes Simmons, Stirling Willie,
Gives Good Harmony Talks w- J- Uoberts, Roy Williams,
Jack Mclver, Burt Sutherland, Leo
lister, lister W. Burnett, Harvey II
MASS MEETING AT CRYSTAL! Morris, Word Dunn, John Wooley,
Harvey IK Kay, and Andrew J. Hill.
Iet every citixen do all in his power
to assist Lieutenant Watson and
Privates Sloss and Rutherford to
get the Dcming company up to 100
men, as secretary Iane had a tip at
Columbus that the Now Mexico regi
ment might be disorganiied, the
xtrong companies taking over the
weak ones and all being attached tu
a battalion of regulars. Doming U
now the second strongest eompau)
and must not lose out. Let ever
body boost for Company "I."
Everything In Readiness for Success
ful Commencement Work. Plans
Should he Made to Attend all the
Exercises, Starting Sunday, May 21
Sunday evening; May 21 Bneea-
aureate omion. Rev. Theodore Plntt,
'rystnl Then I or.
Tuesday evening, May 2.1 Shake
IM'iircnii, play, Central School lawn.
edrsdny, May 24 Class Picnic
ragedics" produced mucli j Tl.nr-d.iv morning, May 2.5-The "n ?Wn mtt luncheon.
. She caressed the opin- ,.;;,,, (rn,lo prnnllntion, ,,,,, bv rollowmg the uncheon Sc
She
nilil think of six worse tragedies,
ix: To be as fat as Mr. Taylor, to
In- as M-rioiis us Me. Ilanliiwny, to lie
in love with a soldier boy, to bo as
iniiif as Miss Foter, to lovo Wis
lueneeiiiciit exercises at the Crystal
Theater.
Secretary
Lucero uddrcxKcd about 1(MI miners.
representing nil the companies which
lie followed with crional talks to
many of I hem, producing a feeling of
great confidence and loyalty.
The part y I hen proceeded to Co.
Diablo., where greeting- were ex
tended lo the various companies ot
the Xrw Mexico National Guard, in -
The Hulls Please Patrons
There are movie men and movi
men.
Doming can prove this after sn
years of toying with most every kind.
There are almost doxens of them
who have tried the exporiment, but
when everything is done and said.
you have got to hand it to the Hulls,
as the anly people who can actual
ly deliver the goods with profit to
I hem and ploa-mre to the commun
ity. They keep getting all the improve
ments that go with the business and
never spare the cost of obtaining th
Im in fllmdom.
Just us an instance, beginning to
i iglit tho great Paramount Him ser-
ice will be inaugurated lo be shown
Moudnys and Fridays.
On the 10th of June they will show
the I. iiiiii county movies made at the
lime of the murder trial and many
pictures on the border and in Mexico,
and will keep the price right down
low.
The Hulls are sure playing the
gniiie right '
OECG OCTS KEO CROSS
TO QE SOLES LIFE KAPPK
PROGRAM :
Military Polonaise... Chopi n
Misses Rolich and Wamel
cousin us much n. Mrs. Rogers and Invocnt'nn Rev. S. R. McClnre eluding of course. General Herring,
Mrs. Stcckcr; iierh'ips a tragedy thntM. For a Thousand Tongues.. Rxcell Col. K. C. Abholt and the headquart-
s worse I Iiiiii ar.y of the others; Mr-. Demi Mr. Foulks cr slaff. The Dcming lioys are
is to lie as yonn,' as Mr. Kllisou and Mi-s Cniiollv - Mr.Plntt iiiakiiii; many fnends m the camp and;
Miss Slewiirt, luc li tragedy, lion Address Ininiorlalily of Influence are included in the high grade list.
ever, time might allinlo. "Rev. Huiih T. Mitehelmore They already conduct themselves like
Mrs. Rogers suggested in a mot Helisiirio Fnntnssia Donixetti regulars and arc winning all sorts of
pleasing milliner that young H-ople l-l Pin no Z Miss Wamel golden opinions. j
were more endowed wilh Iioh and '.'ml Piano ...Miss Rolich Mayor N'ordlinus brought the part
wisiiom at tile lime ot graduation rrescntalion oi iiipioimis nai-K lo iienung in I:-, lint, Hitting : n-o.
Inxilnlion to the Dance von Weber a 40-piice now and then to give tliej The Dcming physicians, and we
l-l Piano J machine exercise. j h,,ve some mighty good ones, arv
..Misscsltolieh and Shopard At (i:.10. President .Malioncy wa lu-arlily interested in the work, likc--M
Pin . bust at the Harvey lloii.e. eompli-, ujt. the able Doming nurses.
Misses Wninol and Hilhs mentnrv lo Hie secret arv, those "sit-
. Rev. Henry ting in" im-liidiug Dr. Swojie. Seevo-
, t lary Iwuie. Mr. O'farv and Mr.
Miss Violet Bonham, President and
Miss Helen Swope, Secretary
Treasurer. Doming Base Hospit
al In Case of Intervention or War.
Last Friday evei.ing at the Ladies'
llospitnl there was organised a Dent
ing brunch of the American Red
Cross, for the purpose of aiding in
the hospital and "comforting" worL
of soldiers on the border or in Mex
the good work already started.
J. 8. VAUGHT
Since it heenme noised around that
8.
limn any other period of their exist
ence, bill ndlnotiisl'cd them that the
best of human endeavor was yet to
lie H'rl'ormed, ami advised them to
hike due and tiuielv notice thereof.
Siiperutciideiit 'laylor cleverly ob. ' Benediction .
served Mint if it had not taken sj
much time iu wailing Ire eloquent DACCA LACRF.ATK PROGRAM:
ies,M1ses ,.f the previous speakers, ,,VO(.n,ion Rpv. S .R. McClnr.-
Ins own iiroduelioii could be given , m.,i ri.j.i: ci.i: ,
more attention, ;iv;m.r the class the
closing thoiiuht tin. I hud each mem
ber heeded the I'dn onilioiis uiven by
Ihe faculty, they ini'.-lil have been
better off, but thai lie was proiio ot
I hem ns they were
Much of the pluiant success of
I lie event wus due lo the jinior class
advisor, Mrs. Alio Stcckcr.
Those present wi ro Snpt. J. B.
Taylor, and Mrs. Taylor, Principal
Can Bcdichck. P of.' F.Hison, Mrs.
.1. II. Rogers of Porti.ge, Wis., Me.
Alio Slec'-er. Miss Edc. Miss Sadie
Stewart. Miss Foster, Prof. R. K.
Hardaway, Carlctoii Clark, Cath
erine Lnnghrcn, Kathleen Sullivan,
N'o. 215 Congregation
Scripture Lesson, Proverbs 23: 12-20
Prof. J. B Taylor
ijiiinieito, "Seek Yc The Lord," F.xcell
Misses 1 4i urn Comer, Beatrice Hillis,
Ar'adne Connnway: Messrs. Clyde
Meyer. Paul Henry.
Collection
"senium Rev. Theodore Plntt
Hymn. "Ho Lcndeth Me." No. 300:
r a ' ...
55 . ut education is the trouble in Mexico
Benediction Rev. W . E. Foulks joljrtv
Mnsieians : Mr. Sch.irtx, director: ,0 , Secretary Lu-
M.s. Wamel, pianist. wen, , ,na hogpilal for a ,iue
chat with Jesus Pia, the 12-year old
The Shakespearean celebration to illista, who lost his leg from injury
Holt.
The Crystal Theater mnss meet
ing at S:.'IO was ill.. Hncst meeting of
its k'ud cut held i.s tb!s section, nud
it made Se-r 'tiny Lucero feel goo!
all over to note the good feeling in
dicated by the hcuily applause that
greeted bis patriotic utterances, two
examples of which follow: "This is
our country. This is our flag, and
we should Ih ready to fight and die
for both." "Educate your children
at however great the sacrifice, as ed-
iication is the only salvation. Lack!?:.'!!),
At the iuitiul meeting a very prac
tical talk was delivered as a guide
to the necessary work.
The lailies have frequent meetings
for the puriose of muking littlu
handy things so necessary in camp
life and which the home boyg will so
much appreciate.
Men, women, boys and girls are el
iuible to membership and there is
nothing compulsory about the army
duty. Mrs. Duff gives a number of'
young ladies practical instruction?,
at the hospital every day.
Regular meetings are held at the
hospital every Monday evening at
Americanos."
!ne rcpme...n.n.., .s .. ...u,iisK.stnnt ntt j
p or t..e nn.nn.-.n. V h, is a onndida,e for the main n . ' V
play the Star Spangled jol., people from both Lan nd Grant I Jh' M y
nuite ns much feeling as "Ln Pa- J ' ..... .,,- .t..:. llfo",i"' '.V t
, , , I'ouiillt-s iiuvb oc-co ik"ii;i"K ",r" ier Flmo
louia " They are P1" r; ....proval by telephone 2nd letter nl1;'"';
what Americans could do for many . ' I """ano s
.W. nt Ihm Ij.tin-Amerieans. The .rf0"'. . ! Rob
- - i iriin 1'Bnnhi ttfnMAH in ranmiM . . . . .. . . ... .
. o ...u ... ....... -.-, inlKir. Jessn Ke v. llwie lit .Me. ers will a row
Cuited Statea surely has a duty to
ward the peoples of Mexico now
sunk in ignorance and suffereing all
the pains of mis-government.
The Deming bnyg certainly appre
ciate the many little attentions which
the citizens so generously bestow.
The wives, sweethearts, and friends,
have instilled the Dcming spirit into
the hearts of their fighting men.
The Dcming spirit will not fail be
cause of this new test of fire.
How long the New Mexico militia
Grace Emery, Jessie Guiney, Maria be held at the Central School grounds sustained in the Columbus raid, but!
Mior, Anadnc Connnway, Wells mi Tuesday, May 23, has for its who has become much in love witV j
Rutherford, Kuln Holstein, Elinor : theme, endowing of Shakespenr, th'! America and wants to become a cit-
rice Hillis, Herman hoy, with all his varied character- ixen.
Roltcrtson, Isnliel Sev- isiies, by chief among fairies, Ti- Dr. Swope presided at the mass
York, Winifred Donk, tanin, Oberon and Puck. It consists meeting and Miguel Marruffo rerv;
Mnraffo. Clayton Fonlks, of two scenes ably acted as interpreter, English to!.,,,,! 11M Aa,nry,t r.,an. .nJ Jir
Ihii Robhins, Olive Whitchill, Na-' First: A gathering of the villas- Spanish and Spanish to English. I ,,r snn Antonin Oc.nm f Rf Tni
ou have got to hand it to Coin- j ,, Mri r1nrin, Morri, of 0Weston,
nussioner J. W . Phillip, for this idea, i froln ,ile Demi,., -lmtivM.
Mrs. Hannah Nordhaus Dead
Mrs. Hannah Nordhaus, aged 80,
oldest while resident ot San Antonio,
Texas, and grandmother of F. L.
and M. A. Nordhaus, and Mrs. Hal
lie Ward Tucker, died at her home
i Monday morning and waa buried
Tuesday afternoon. Because of tho
brief notice, it waa impossible for
Doming relatives to attend.
The deceased leave three sons.
nnrt.1 itiol f.ilL-
I, mey nguren no woum urn Cluro. Thelmn O-hson, Clyde Meyer, ! dances.
hut lie nas done ocner man een niSMimi Uns,0j mArvA ConnnwavJ Second: A fairy scene where He started it.
lKst friends could have anticipated. A)na jaP0bSen, Josephine Latham, Shakespeare is endowed with pow '
nugni is a saie oe m mo o..rr pn jIonr Whitchill. Roy ers such that all generations will DoflhWs ft 9 Far Co
City convention.
iRnelnish, Rissie Witten, Cyril Meas
I da v. Bertha Kellv, Broksie Robert
Iick of saoe forees ns to conclude , Frank Stee l nud Dora Vunn.
Isav: "Would I had
been."
I Governor Issues Reprieve
"I" j Governor McDonald has issued a
Realty Co.ljl-dny reprieve for the seven Vtt-
this column next week.
Postmnster W. E. Foulks accom
panied the recruiting party to Colnm
bus yesterday.
Shakespeare The Wells-Peach
: Hughes Brothers, and John Noonan.i lists murderers and Lneius C. En
sure look rood to Co. "I." Tho boys I tower and PnAm UAnta win .
Alex Hamilton, Will MeDonough, ;- Henry Fund, aged 32, passed away, got a nice big barrel of Deming? j hearing in the supreme eourt, the
mm nny minis, jMiiiomu vmnms-, eiinedny, at the ing Sanatorium, tw.ro and .oonan sent it down to the! latter from Grant county.
, . l . 1 ... . .... m. ........ -
men, were oiiiimi- 10 uiiciio. Mineral services were eonrtneted nt company Tuesday, and what in bet
Join Co. "I," They need you.
jthe Christian church by Rev. S. U. ' ter still, this act will be repeated
j McClure this afternoon. j from time to time.
No prosecutions were ever better
conducted and these delays only
mean a stay of execution.
