Last week in this identical space we drew attention to matters concerning the Fourth of July celebration. The article in question has caused more comment than
anything we ever dreamed of. From various sources, which we had every reason to believe authentic, we were asured that the idea of an "open town" was not only a pos
sibility but very much of a probability. Much evidence was laid before us and considerable data produced. We therefore denounced very strongly the whole proposition.
Now we have it on the authority of Messrs. Blyth and Holmer, two of the members of the committee, that nothing of the kind was contemplated; that some form of
raffling and use of punch boards for the disposition of auto tickets were only suggestions made by the committee. Evidently much of the information given us was exag
gerated and a fear that the things asked for would become the entering wedge for much wider license was the thing that was the scare. We make this explanation because
we think it is due, and in order to present a more balanced and just view of the whole question, as we do not wish to willingly injure anyone. We do not recede one jot
from the position that a wide-open town must not under any circumstances be allowed, nor do we now believe that it was the intention of the committee, or that it should
be. Since our issue of last week was in the hands of our subscribers we have received scores upon scores of assurances from the people of this city, by letter, by phone
and by word of mouth that our stand was correct and that the very large majority of the people was of the same mind and upheld the Herald in its stand. Strange to say
that among all these different classes of people who stoodiby us, NOT A SINGLE MINISTER OF ANY CHURCH IN THIS CITY SAID ONE WORD OF APPROVAL.
We make no comment on this feature, but simply record the fact. We would like to emphasize the fact that we did not accuse the committee of wanting to open the town
up; we distinctly said that the committee virtually said: "that they could not successfully raise the money under existing conditions," which led us to take the stand we
did. We have no apologies to offer, but deem this explanation only fair and right.
THIRTIETH YEAR
PAVING WINS
IN ACTION BY
CITY COUNCIL
Improvement of West
Second Street Finally
Ordered
WO MORE PLANKING
City to Exercise Care in
Accepting Plats in
Future
Six property owners on West Sec
ond street, at Wednesday night's
'council session, declared themselves
in favor of improvement of that street
from M to Washington by permanent
paving and sidewalks, and three op
posed It. This expression by rising
vote, asked by the council after a
rather warm discussion of the ques
tion, was followed by the ordering of
an ordinance's drafting providing for
■the Improvement.
Due to the thorough airing of the
controversy between advocates of
continuance of planked streets and
those who believe their maintenance
constitutes an injustice to property
owners all over the city, and follow
ing suggestions from Mayor Phillips,
drawing also was ordered of an ordi
nance under which no more plats will
be accepted of additions where the
streets have not been permanently
Improved.
Ordinances were ordered drawn for
concrete sidewalks on "Terrace ave
nue, to cost by city engineer's esti
mate $802, and for concrete sidewalk
on the west side of Broadway from
Heron to llume, costing $565.
Little business came up before the
council other than street improvement
discussion. Permission was given the
Moose lodge to use the street decora
tions left over from the 1914 Splash,
in this year's celebration. August
Wallin proved to be lowest bidder for
the Wishkah road's construction, with
$2,884 for project A and $5,167 for
project B, the second being favored
by the city engineer. The question
of financing the road's building was
referred to finance committee and city
attorney.
Advertising for bids for steel pipe
for the Wishkali water system was
ordered. Work on the West bridge
was accepted and sums due A. R.
Eichler under the two last contracts.
$13,771 and $3,591, ordered paid the
Hayes & Hayes bank, to whom had
"been assigned the contracts. The lat
ter sum will be collected by the city
from Wilson Bros. & Co., as damages
inflicted upon the bridge by the"steam
er Lindauer, and manner of collect
ing was left with the finance commit
tee.
The water committee recommend
ed that the city rent a warehouse, at
?40 a month, at H and River streets,
for storing supplies for the Wislikah
water project. Upon City Engineer
Kclsey's stating that another tender of
warehouse had been made to him,
the matter was referred hack to the
■water committee.
TOBACCO MAY
BE SENT FREE
OF CUSTOMS
The local postoffice has been noti
fied that postal arrangements have
been made with France tor sending
by parcel post parcels containing to
bacco, cigars or cigarettes to soldiers
in the field free of customs duty, pro
vided they are addressed to the Min
ister of War directly and exclusively
who is to have charge of their dis
tribution. The address of the military
unit to which the parcels are to go
may be included in the address as a
statement of the sender's desire, the
military authorities being the final
judge as to the possibility of comply
ing therewith.
The Herald is a good newspaper;
<coßts you $1.50 a year.
AN EXPLANATION, WITH SOME FURTHER C(MMMf
THE ABERDEEN HERALD
EIGHT PAGES
❖*❖*❖*❖ ❖ * * ❖ * ❖ ❖
❖ WOULD CINCH JURORS ❖
The Grays Harbor county su
• perior court lias ordered a jury
■ venire drawn for court term be
• ginning June 19. By the court's
• order the list of jurors will not
• be published until the sheriff has
• made his returns of service. It
• is hoped that, in this way, pros
• pective jurors will not be able
• to evade service in such great
• numbers as in the past.
Clam Digging Season,
Because Backward, Is
Extended By Darwin
Fish Commissioner, After Conference
The clam digging season will not
close until June 21, a three weeks'
extension having been granted by
State Fish Commissioner L. H. Dar
win after a conference, Monday, with
local clam packing concerns and
workers. .Tests showed to Darwin's
complete satisfaction that the clam
season was backward and the clam
supply is larger than in most years,
hence no damage could result from ex
tending the time.
35 CENTS DAY
BUYS FINE FOOD
FOR STUDENTS
Tliirty-five cents a day sufficed for
food furnished Washington State col
lege students at their recent encamp
ment near Spokane. Six Grays Har
bor county students, W. H. Hopkinson
of Aberdeen, C. O. Calder and S. P.
Mustrand of Montesano, A. W. New
man and J. W. Robinson of KM ma and
M. R. Rover of Porter, participated
in the encampment and in the daily
fare, which latter they declare was
excellent. The menu, at 35 cents a
day, looks good:
Breakfast —Fresh bananas, 36 dozen;
corn flakes, 36 pkgs.; scrambled eggs,
66 doz.; cottage fried potatoes, 200
lbs.; coffee, 20 lbs.; milk, 5 gals.; ba
con, 88 lbs.; bread, 100 lbs.; sugar,
10 lbs.; butter, 15 lbs.
Dinner —Pot Roast, pan gravy, 175
lbs.; mashed potatoes, 200 lbs.; cream
ed peas, 48 cans, apple sauce, evap.,
50 lbs.; coffee. 20 lbs., evaix milk, 20
cans; bread, 150 lbs.; milks, 20 cans;
sugar, 20 lbs.; butter, 15 lbs.
Supper—Creamed hash, pan gravy,
120 lbs.; hashed brown potatoes, 200
lbs.; apple pie, 80 pies; milk, 30 gals.;
bread, 150 lbs.; butter, 15 lbs.
50.000,000 FEET
OF LUMBER WILL
BE BOUGHT HERE
Grays Harbor mills are to be given
a chance at furnishing half of orders
for some 100.000,000 feet of lumber
desired by Comyn, Mackall & Co. of
San Francisco for foreign shipments
In 1916 and 1917. In an interview
given in Seattle the other night by
W. Leslie Comyn of tlie firm he de
clared that the entire business would
be split between Grays Harbor and
Puget Sound mills.
POLICE GET TWO
BOOTLEGGERS IN
RAIDS THIS WEEK
Raids by local police and deputies
of the sheriff's office last Sunday, re
sulted in the arrests of A. W. Erick
son. steward of the steamer Coronado,
and of Mrs. Stella Parker, proprietress
of the Capitol lodging house, on
charges of illicit liquor traffic. Eriek
son was turned over to the county
authorities and now is out on bail.
Mrs. Parker was fined $25 and costs
by Police Judge Glen Snider, Tues
day.
STIRS NORTH RIVER
The federal grand jury is busy this
week at Tacoma with the North Riv
er troubles. A secret indictment, ac
cording to reports in the daily press,
was returned early in the week, a
bench warrant issued for the party
indicted and bail fixed at $1500.
Packers, Allows Work to
Run to June 21
ABERDEEN, WASHINGTON,
STREET CARNIVAL
WILL LAST WEEK
Moose Lodge Is Hard at
Work on Flans for
Splash
Aberdeen will have a week of street
carnival, as p part of the big Splash
to be celehrated here for the Fourth
of July celebration. This was decid
ed the other night by the Moose lodtie,
which will have charge of the cele
bration. There will be the usual wa
ter sports that have featured the oc
casion in the past, with gorgeous pa
geants, auto parades and* other fea
tures.
Harry Druximan, general Splash
chairman, declares that the Moose in
tend to spend every dollar raised on
the celebration. The money left from
Aberdeen's celebration, two years ago,
will be turned over to the Moose, and
there is every indication, now, that
the Splash will be as good a one as
has been pulled off on the Harbor.
The field day to be held by the
Sunday schools of Grays Harbor Coun
ty will be on July 3, children's day
at the big Splash celebration. There
will be entries from all over the coun
ty. including the Sunday school on
the Taholah Indian reservation, but
events will not be open to outsiders.
Contestants all will be members of
Sunday schools.
GUARDSMEN TO
RECEIVE BIG PAY
HERE NEXT YEAR
Co. G, 2nd Reg., N. G. W., will re
ceive $5,000 a year in federal pay af
ter July 1, when the national guard
pay bill becomes effective. If pres
ent plans of the state adjutant's of
fice go through, there will be two
more militia companies formed here
and a field hospital corps, which will
bring $15,000 more for the payroll of
local guardsmen. Captains will get
, $500 a year, first and second lieuten
ants $240 and $200, respectively, and
enlisted men a fourth of regular army
pay.
TO REOPEN OLD HOTEL
The old Crescent hotel, at Market
■ | and H streets, is being repaired and
it is expected to reopen it as a mod
ern family hotel in a couple of months.
Jones & Jones are conducting the re
pair work for the Yakima Orchard
Security company, owners, and some
$10,000 will be spent in the remod
eling.
' IF WE COULD ONLY STRIKE AN AVERAGE.
•*« »J» »J« ♦J* ♦J# »J» »J« »J« »J» »J» »|«
❖ BEARS ORDERED OUT ❖
•% •%
John Gegan must not keep pet
• bears in Hoquiam. So ordered
• the Hoquiam city commission
• Wednesday, following reports
• and petitions from residents of
• Hoquiam's north end, declaring
• the bears occasionally obtain
• their liberty and householders
• simply can't abide finding them
• sitting on their front doorsteps,
• wagging or trying to wag, their
• tails.
Autoists Collide,
One Car Smashed,
Suit Threatened
Hugh M. Delanty, manager of the
Grays Harbor Stevedore company, and
Miss Veneta Smith of Montesano, each
driving an automobile, came into col
lision, last Sunday, at a curve in the
road near Montesano. None of the
occupants of the cars suffered seri
ous injujry, but the Delanty car was
badly wrecked. Miss Smith says that
she will sue Delanty for damages, as
serting that, had he not turned from
his right hand to the left of the road,
the collision would not have happen
ed. Delanty declares, for his part,
that Miss Smith apparently did not
see him and that, if he had not turn
ed to the left, the cars would cer
tainly have met.
North River Camps
Will Receive Train
Service Very Soon
A freight schedule will be in effect
in a week or two on the North River
line of the 0.-W. Regular freight
trains will be required for the new
camps of the Anderson & Middleton
company and the North River Logging
company, to take out their logs.
❖❖❖❖❖❖ ❖ * ❖ * ❖
❖ FISH WAR IS ON
Quiniault salmon have jump
ed from 25 cents to 50 cents
since the first of the week, as
the result of a fish buying war
started at Moclips and Taholah.
The contest, according to report,
is between Aberdeen and Ho
quiam packing companies, on the
one hand, and Everett packing
interests on the other. Each of
the packers expects to buy from
75,000 to 100,000 salmon this
season.
FRIDAY, MAY 19, 1916.
GREAT BUTTERFAT
SHOWING IS MACE
Forty-Eight Cows Pro
duce Each More Than
40 Pounds
The prizes offered by the Aberdeen
Chamber of Commerce for the highest
production of pure bred and ot grade
cows, in April, were won by J. H.
Taylor and Murphy brothers, respect
ively. Forty-eight cows each produc
ed more than 40 pounds of butterfat
in the month.
"Remarkable as 'this showing is,"
says R. W. McKenna, official cow
tester for the Montesano association,
in a letter to the Herald, "it is much
below what it would be were this an
ordinary year. The majority of the
herds still show the effect of short
age of feed through almost the en
tire winter. Also the extremely late
spring has produced little, if any, pas
ture of value. The cows that are
getting some grain in addition to pas
ture are making a much better show
ing than those getting no grain at all.
"With six months of the year's test
ing gone we have one grade Jersey
cow in the first six months of her
period of lactation which has produc
ed in that time 350 pounds of fat,
over twice the average production per
year in the United States. Also we
have a pure bred Jersey which has
produced in the last six months of
her lactation period 300 pounds of fat.
This showing makes us believe that
the average production per cow for
the year will be unusually high, even
though there are a number of low
producers in the association herds."
2730 NAMES ON
SCHOOL CENSUS
AND LIST GROWS
There are more than 2730 names on
the Aberdeen school census now, and
it seems likely that when the com
plete returns are made up, with pos
sibly a few whom the census enum
erators have not obtained but may
come in from reports of households
missed, as was the case last year, the
1916 census will be found 100 greater
than the 1915 census. It means $10
a name in state funds for the local
schools. Persons who know of house
holds where there are any between
the ages of 5 and 21, married or sin
gle, not visited by the census enum
erators, should notify the secretary of
the school board at the high school.
❖
❖ MAY BE TRUE, OR— ❖
A wild story comes from
Montesano to the effect that
saloon-men of "Sail Francisco
on the Fourth of July will char
ter a big steamship which will
carry to the Golden Gate any
Grays Harbor residents who de
sire to spend the national holi
day in carousal. Fare will be
$5, according to the Montesano
story, and voyagers must pledge
themselves to spend $200 on
booze. Sounds interesting.
GETS FIGURES TO
BASE HIS BID ON
PIPE LINE WORK
J. L. Stannard, Portland Engineer
Likely Will Make Bid Less
Than $400,000
J. L.. Stannard. prominent consult
ing engineer of Portland, this week
went over the pipe line route of the
Wishkali water system, gathering data
on which he will base recommenda
tions for the bid on the work to be
made by Jacobsen & Jensen, Portland
contractors. Stannard, furnished an
estimate several weeks ago, for the
city council, of about $400,000. As
the council, since then, has purchased
the wood pipe staves at a consider
able reduction from the estimate
made by Stannard, it is likely that his
figures for the Portland firm will be
lower than $400,000.
Gardner Is Working
for Nomination for
County Attorney
Ira N. Gardner, justice of the peace,
is out working for the Republican
nomination for county attorney. He
has been a resident of Aberdeen for
the past five years, coming here from
Middletown, N. Y. He had served
two years as justice of the peace in
that city, but resigned his office to
come West. Finding depressed con
ditions here, after practicing law in
Aberdeen for six months, Mr. Gard
ner closed his office and went into
the lumber camps for several months.
After his return to the city, he ran
for police judge against Judge G. R.
Snider, incumbent, and was defeated
by only a few votes, the first man in
the city to poll over a thousand votes
in a losing election. Six months af
terward he filed for Justice of the
peace and in the fall elections was
elected by a large majority.
Mr. Gardner has been in office as
justice of the peace for sixteen months
and has handled about fifteen hun
dred cases, with the record that not
a single decision has ever been re
versed on appeal. He has no plat
form to announce other than a belief
in a Rane and common sense enforce
ment of laws, with a regard td the
sway of public opinion.
TO SUE COUNTY
FOR FEED BILLS
FOR LIVESTOCK
The county is to be made defendant
in a suit started by the Sea Beach
Packing company, Grays Harbor Flour
company and other local concerns who
furnished feed last winter for starv
ing livestock. The feed was ordered
by Ed Smith, then county humane
officer. The county commissioners
have repudiated the bills, declaring
that they have no legal authority to
pay them. The stock cannot be held
for the accounts and all the animals
have been returned to their owners.
HURT IN COLLISION
Robert McNamara and Guy Belle
man, riding motorcycles, ran into a
milk wagon of the Royal dairy, last
Friday night, two miles west of the
Country club. The motorcyclists were
riding abreast at 30 miles an hour,
and a thick fog prevented their see
ing the milk wagon. McNamara, who
is an employe of Karshner Bros., sus
tained a broken leg and Belleman,
employe of Gould Bros., a bruised
head.
VOLUME 3
CITY GETTING
ITS PIPE LINE
ROUTE FREE
John G. Lewis Is First to
Donate Right of
Way
SCORE GIVE LANDS
Owners Show Coopera
tive Spirit in Helping
City
Owners of land along Uie route of
the Wishkali water system are com
ing forward generously with dona
tions of rights of way for the pipa
line. John G. Lewis, Aberdeen's can
didate for the Republican gubernator
ial nomination, was first to actually
sign a deed converting right of way.
Mr. Lewis, believing that landowners
should cooperate with the municipal
ity, conveyed to the city, Tuesday,
a 60-foot right of way over the NE.
quarter of section 31, township 20 N
range 8 W.
Nearly a score of the 47 owners of
land over which the pipe line must
pass have promised to donate right
of way. Councilman James Enipey
on Wednesday secured route through
two miles land, a mile and a half be
ing given by the Grays Harbor Log
ging company and a half mile by
R. Austin. This is in addition to
the half mile given to Empey by
John G. Lewis the day before.
| Bids for work on the line will be
opened Wednesday night, May 31.
These are the owners of the tracts
which will be crossed by the Wish
ikah pipe line: Edward Lowe, Wey
erhaeuser Timber company, Ella Wal
dron, A. J. West, Mary E, Smith,
Highland Home Boom company, Ed
ward Lowe & Eugene France, Sam
uel Benn, Aberdeen Lumber & Shin
gle company, Eugene France, John G.
Lewis, Dr. O. R. Austin, * Chehalls
County bank, State of Washington,
Charles H. Davis, Grays Harbor Log
ging company, Charles Larkins, Lar
kins Logging company, Washington
State Colonization company, Toneas
Zulawinski. John Kloda, Paul Boeck,
Alex Weidman, William E. Boeing,
Otto Heiesle & Paul Weidele, Stephen
Suczepanski, Amelia Johnson, Wurin
Dzlin and Daniel Myhluns, B. Fash
oug, C. G. Turner et al, O. M. Peter
son, T. C. Bundy, Northwest Lumber
company, State Land & Timber com
pany, W. L. Lutes, H. L. Green, C. A.
Webb. Sadie E. Smith, Anna E. John
son, Ethel G. McKay. Jacob Johnson,
Morris R. Wentwortli et al, O. M.
Kellogg, Book Investment company
and R. E. Pasley.
WHEAT TANKS
TO BE TURNED
OUT HERE SOON
The wheat tank manufacturing com
pany, to be started here ljy- A. J.
Houck, of Spokane, will be in opera
tion in a few weeks, according to
present plans. While a large force ot
men will not be required for the plant,
its operations will require local lum
ber mills to increase their output.,
which in the end means more work
for mill hands. The Aberdeen Cham
ber of Commerce is to be commended
for securing this live industry for the
city.
JOY RIDERS ACTIVE
Joy riders have been making free
with automobiles in Aberdeen in the
past week. J. S. Waugh reports that
his car has been taken several times,
his garage door being broken open
on the last occasion and the car run,
according to the speedometer, 40
miles before its return. W. J. Pat
terson's car and the machines of a
number of others have been taken out
by reckless youths of tlie city, late
ly. The police are investigating the
i cases.
NUMBER "St-
