oflf) T\TT 7T /I <1 mmmmh
Jlr miSMHtfBSTOTN (Q aT (f TT/^ySFsSri^S
//Jb, j A LaV LILCT
ll.i;\'l,.vTll YEAR. No. 48,
A BEMiiIITFI'L ENTERTAINMENT.
In past years the public schools of
Oroville have given entertainments of
| one kind and another, usually the
chief feature being a play of the com
edy class, in every Instance creditable
to the participants and a source of
keen pleasure to the patrons, yet never
before have the scholars presented
stu b an excellent entertainment as
that staged by them at the Orpheum
last Friday evening, and on no pre
vious occasion has the entertainment
been so thoroughly enjoyed by those
present. Especially does this fluttering
(ommeudation apply to those taking
part in the comedy, which was the cen
tral attraction around which the other
features revolved. Masterful effort ami
earnest endeavor on the part of the
cast, supplemented by careful train
ing and coaching, combined to placing
mi the hoards the best rendered and
i»est sustained amateur representation
af stage work that has ever been seen
py our people. And it is a pleasure to
note that a great many citizens wete
present to enjoy the performance, the
attendance being one of the largest
hat has ever collected in the Orph
lutu. That the various members struck
he popular chord was evidenced in
he manifestations of approval, for the
ippluttse was generous and prolonged.
The play selected for this occasion
vas something more ambitious than
las heretofore been assayed by the
itipils, but it would seem that the
rtore difficult the task the better the
lerformance. The title of the comedy
fas ‘‘The Real Donna Maria,” in which
b presented a tangle of comical situa
lons that kept the audience in a con
tain roar. In the cast of characters
ir Francis Chesney, late in the In
ian service, was represented by Theo.
olmson; Stephen Pottlgue, solicitor,
ixford, by Harlan Fuller; Jack Ches
ey and Chas. Wykeham, college
haps, by Chas. Cole and Aubrey Me
lakan; Lord Fancourt Babberly, un
ergraduate, by Uarland Ethel; Bras
itt, a college scout, by Chas. Mitch
-1; Donna Maria d'Alvadorez by Miss
■mice Desmond; Kitty Verdum,
pettigue's ward, by Miss I.oralne
artell; Amy Spettiguc, Spettigue's
ece, by Miss Elizabeth Murray; Elu
elahay, an orphan, by Miss Goldie
Uchell. AM of the young ladles and
mtlemen filled the roles assigned
em most admirably, 4tnd it would
irdly be just to make any particular
ention. However, it is not inappro
>iate to say that in the character of
)rd Fancourt Babberly, where he
ns called upon to impersonate Donna
aria d'Alcadorez, Mr, Ethel did a,
iry clever piece of acting that would
ive been creditable in a professional.
Tlie musical selections were very
ell rendered and the well pleased
alienee would not be denied encores,
he duetts, "Take It From Me,” and
Cricket on the Hearth," by Miss Her
ine Greger and Lawrence Dallam
ere most pleasing numbers, the lat
■r being very prettily staged. The
irl's trio, composed of Miss Louise
tudley, Miss Ruth McCammon and
liss 11 ermine Grieger were dellghtful
y rendered, the voices blending in
xcellent harmony. The quartette,
The Auctioneer,” including Miss
lermine Grieger, Miss Dora Cole,
übrey McMahan and Harlan Puller
Sns an amusing skit and a popular
lit. The pantomimes, “Jaunita,” and
‘The Star Spangled Banner,” with
M ss Dora Cole in charming attitudial I
poses with vocal accompaniment by
Lawrence Dallam were unique and
krery pleasing features. Lawrence Dal
lam repeated “Lasca,” the declamation
with which he won the first place in
the oratorical contest during the iuter
scholastic meet at Brewster, and it
was dramatically rendered.
It is a pleasure to note that the re
ceipts of the evening were sufficient
to liquidate the outstanding obliga
tions of the High School Athletic Asso
ciation, for the benefit of which the
entertainment was given, and the
school term ends with a clean slate so
far as the association's accounts are
concerned. Prof. Leonard Davis, who
had charge of the preparations for the
entertainment, and drilled those taking
part. Is entitled to no small credit for
the success of the undertaking. Miss
Rosetta Murray hud charge of prepar
ing the pupils in the musical numbers
and she is deserving of credit for the
excellency of that feature. Nor should
Ihe assistants at the piano be overlook
ed. as the success of the music was in
no small measure due to the perform
ance of Miss Helen Grieger and Miss
l.ilii Luvalle. Also in this connection,
Prof. W. Leonard Davis who has ably
managed the athletic; feature of the
high school during the past year, wish
es to express thanks on the part of the
teachers and pupils for the liberal pat
ronage extended to the school on this
occasion by the citizens of Orovllle.
DEATH OF FATHER DE ROGUE.
The older residents of the county
who have known him for years and are
familiar with the great ami good work
he has accomplished in dissemination
the Christian religion among the In
dians of the Colville reservation, will
read with feelings of sincere regret of
the death of that pioneer missionary.
Father de Rouge, who pased away
suddenly Tuesday evening of last
week in his office at St, Mary's Mis
sion, a few miles east of Omak. Father
de Rouge had been in failing health
for months before his death. He went
to Seattle some time ago and submit
ted to an operation in hopes of obtain
ing relief, and returned to the Mission
Saturday, April 29. We noticed the
reverend gentleman on the train the
evening of his return from Seattle, and
he was but a shadow of his former
self. To the observer it seemed as
though the stamp of death was already
upon the unfortunate man. He was
very weak, shockingly emaciated, and
nls countenance of a deathly palor. ll
was all too evident that he was return
ing to his labors before he was in a
physical condition to resume work.
Those who have read Francis Park
man's inimitable history of the self
sacriflces of the Jesuits in carrying
the cross among the Indians of North
America, immediately after the dis
covery of this continent can appreciate
the hardships faced and the trials
overcome by this sturdy member of
that Catholic society so active in every
missionary held. Father de Rouge did
not have to face the personal dangers
that confronted his earlier predeces
sors among the Indians. Yet he had to
put behind him every attraction and
convenience of civilization, make the
best of the crudities common to savage
life, voluntarily deny himself of every
comfort easily within his reach. This
meant great self-abnegation, and was
evidence that he possessed the same
unyielding, self-effacing, valorous spir
it that animated those earlier members
of the priesthood who took their lives
in their hands for the glory of the
church and salvation of souls, and
who sowed seeds of Christianity among
the most vicious tribes of America that
grew, blossomed and bore fruitage.
Father de Rouge came to the Col
ville reservation 30 years ag6, and
started upon his labor of love among
his red wards. He first located near the
present town of Tonasket, but subse
quently rounded St. Mary's Mission,
and there he builded up by his own
exertions one of the most successful
missions in point of accomplishment
and beautiful In the way of surround
ings in the west. The government
granted him a tract of land upon which
substantial buildings have been erect
ed under the direction of this master
hand, among them a church and thor
oughly equipped school. Father de
Rouge' gained the love, respect and de
votion of the Indians by his uniform
kindness and austere probity, and
through his instrumentality many of
the members of the tribe have secured
an education, while among the older
ones many have been led into a better
life. This obscure and almost unknown
priest accomplished a great and noble
work In a comparatively short life, as
he was only 56 years of age, and the
influence of that work will be felt
among those he so closely associated
with for years to come. No storied urn
will mark his last resting place but
his example and good works will en
dure for generations.
SUNDAY SCHOOL COMVEVriON.
The annual Okanogan County Sun
day School Association convention is
to be held In Oroville in the Methodist
church Monday and Tuesday, June 5
and 6, and it is expected that the at
tendance will exceed in numbers that
of any previous convention. The pro
gram covers a wide range of subjects,
and judging from its length every min
ute of the time of the two days will be
crowded with action. Sunday school
workers from all parts of the county
are expected, and speakers will be
present from a distance. It promises
to be a very interesting and instructive
session. Members of the local churches
will arrange to entertain the expected
guests. On the first day there will be
only an evening session, but on Tues
day there will be sessions morning,
afternoon and evening.
WORTHY OF INSPECTION
On Friday, May 19, afternoon and even
ing. there will be an exhibit of articles
made in the manual training and domes
tic art classes during the high school year,
and also a table of eatables will he exhib
ited by the domestic science class. This
display will take place at the school house
and everybody is cordially invited to at
tend and see tills exhibit, and see the
character of the work put out by the high
school pupils. Refreshments will be served
in the afternoon.
X. E. CHURCH SERVICES
(Sunday May 21, 1916.)
Sunday School at 10 a. in. Preaching
service at 11 a. in. Sermon by the pas
tor. Epworth league at 7 p. in. Preach
ing at 8 p. m. Sermon by pastor.
Everybody welcome; everybody in
vited; everybody come. The homelike
church and the stranger's friend.
W. W. STRITE, Pasort.
OROVILLE, WASHIN ITON, MAY 19, 1916.
THE OROVILLjS EPSOM SALTS PLANT.
(The above picture is published thro igh lhe|courtesy of the Wenatchee World.)
One of the largest industries from
which a revenue is being derived from
natural chemical deposits, in the west,
and indeed, the largest plant of the
kind in the United States, is in opera
tion on the outskirts of Oroville, and
has been in operation for months. Ref
erence is made to the extraction and
marketing of Epsom salts from a lake
of that ingredient a short distance
from Oroville. Subscribers of the Ga
zette will be surprised that no exten
ded and frequent mention has been
made in these columns of this very
important enterprise, but at the re
quest of those interested the editor re
frained from playing up this story. A
promise given is a promise kept, and
we have abstained from mentioning
the project until it secured publicity
in outside papers and hence no longer
feel obliged to remain silent on the
subject.
The Gazette has frequently mention
ed the Epsom salts lake, situated on
the high grounds hardly more than a
mile and a half west of town as the
crow flies, as a great natural curiosity.
That lake is the source of supply for
the finished product that has been
gathered up directly from the lake
and shipped to eastern markets and is
now being turned out in commercial
form in vast quantities by the process
of evaporation. The presence of this
salts lake has been known for years.
Before the .advent of the white man
its contents were used by the Indians
for their medicinal virtues. The lake
was located long ago by E. McCam
mon, R. D. Rayburn and Riley Colie.
Those are names that tradition gives
out as the original locators, although
there has been clashes of claims time
and again over the ownership. This is
neither here nor there. The contents
of the lake were never utilized, be
cause the bulk of the salts of com
merce was imported from Germany,
there was no adequate protection for
the home product, and the price ruled
so low that it could not be extracted
and marketed at a profit. Had there
been no European war the Orovllle
Salts lake would probably have re
mained unworked until the crack o’
doom. But war did break out, the
source of supply was cut oft and like
many another commodity, for which
Europe was depended upon for a sup
ply, the price went up, up, up, until
the local salts had a value that justi
fied extraction and shipment.
About this time the existence of the
Oroville salts lake came to the knowl
edge of an old time miner and pros
pector not averse to taking a chance
in any venture in which minerals of
any kind cut a figure, in the person of
H. B. Brown, better known as ‘‘Bull
Bog" Brown. Mr. Brown came, looked
and was convinced that there was mil
lions in it. He put men at work ex
tracting the salts. It was a crude pro
cess at the beginning. The surface of
the lake is us white as snow, except
where spotted by water blotches, a
solid crust of salts, and the deposit is
of unknown depth. The salts was
scooped off the surface with shovels,
conveyed in wheelbarrows to shallow
vats, sacked and shipped to market
Just as taken In its natural state from
the surface of the lake. Mr. Brown
finally disposed of the Interest he held
which was merely a working privilige
on a royalty basis, to the Stewart-
Calvert company of Seattle. These gen
tlemen had the means to proceed to
LOSSES ADJUSTED.
Guy Mackintosh, of Spokane, repre
senting the Pacific Coast Adjustment
Bureau, and Win. P. Cassell, of Spo
kane, assistant secretary of the Nat
ional Union Fire Insurance company,
spent several days in Oroville during
the past week adjusting losses sustain
ed in the Hotel Spokane fire. The
building was insured for $4,500 in the
ed Mr. Devon, owner of the property.
handle the Halts on a larger scale, and
put k. J. Cronin In charge as local
manager, a wide awake, live wire, who
knows his business and attends to It
strictly. He commenced mining salts
in much larger quantities, and the
product was steadily shipped in car
load lots to Philadelphia, New York,
Boston, and it has even reached the
marts of South America.
Winter came on, and although the
company continued extracting and
marketing salts the weather material
ly interfered with the work. In the
spring, surface water covers the lake,
and that was another handicap to over
come. The Stewart-Caivert company
decided upon installing an evaporat
ing plant, so as to continue producing
under all circumstances. An open
building, 150x240 feet was erected,
which contains 24 vats 20 feet in
length, some six feet wide and four
feet deep. In addition to the main
butiding jhere is a boiler house, fully
equipped, an office, drying room and
packing room. This hive of industry,
like a little village, Is located along
the railroad, with a spur past the door
of the packing room, at a point on the
Similkameen river about a mile west
of the school house. Besides the build
ings and oblong vats mentioned there
are four of five huge cylindric tanks
to hold the salts impregnated water as
it comes from the lake. While the con
struction and equipping of the build
ings was being carried on a two inch
iron pipe line was laid from the lake
on the mountain top to the plant, a
distance, following the sinuous course
of the pipe line, of two and a half
miles. The lake is situated In a de
pression in the mountains, and the
water from the lake had to be pumped
to the height of 100 feet, and from that
elevation discharged through a pipe to
the plant. The water is discharged in
to the large tanks, and from the tanks
carried by pipes to the oblong vats
Steam is then turned In and the water
goes through a vigorous boiling pro
cess. The water Is then left in th»
shallow vats undisturbed for some
days, and the salts is precipitated in
beautiful fine white christalizations.
The liquid itself is a very dark, opaque
brown. After standing the required
length qf time, until all of the solid*
have settled, there is a deposit of salts
on the bottom of the vats several
inches thick. Workmen enter the vats
in high top rubber boots and scoop out
the salts with shovels. The salts is
then carried to the dryer and dumped
through a shute into a centrifugal
sugar dryer. This dryer revolves at n
very high velocity, the moisture is
speedily eliminated and the salts, as
white as the driven snow, passe*
through a schute to the packing room,
directly into sacks or barrels. The
process of extracting and handling the
salts is simple and effective, the pro
duct coming out in fine marketable
condition. The plant has a capacity jf
ten tons a day. The company is to In
crease the producing capacity of the
plant at once. Another tier ot vats,
above those already in use, is to be in
stalled, and when the change is made
Ihe plant will be equipped to turn off
.;o tons per day. The drain on the sup
ply at the fountain head is not notice
able. The lake covers a large area,
and the process of extraction can go
on indefinitely with hardly any limit to
the yield.
A visit to the salts works is exceed-
St. Paul Fire and Marine, the British
America and the Northern Assurance
companies, locally represented by L.
\j. Work, which Mr. Mackintosh adjust
ed, and the furinture was insured in
the National Union Fire Insurance
company, represented here by J. A.
Itlackler, adjusted by Mr. Cassell. In
estimating the loss on the building J.
W. Jordan, the contractor represent-
Mr. Devon was allowed 11,208 on the
building, and $661.25 on the furniture,
ingly interesting. We were over the
plant a few days ago under the guid
ance of Mr. Cronin, who kindly ex
plained the modus operand!. There are
things to note not directly perliunnt
to the process of extraction. Strange to
say it is difficult to build tanks and
vats that will hold the salts impreg
nated water without leakage. It will
seep out of these receptcables that
will hold boiling water without a
sign of leakage. The accepted under
standing as to the nature ot the pro
duct is its moving qualities, and that
may account in a measure tor the diffi
culty experienced in building wooden
receptacles tight enough to prevent ooz
ing. The big tank into which the salts
fluid is discharged from the lake Is a
sight to behold. The water oozes from
the pores of the tank and solidifies as
it slowly drips, forming enormous
stalectites. From the bottom of the
tank to the ground is a dirty looking
mqss ol salts columns in the shape of
enormous icicles. The salts is not
lost, as It is gathered up and put in
the precipitating vats and treated with
steam. Another strange feature in the
handling of the salts is noticeable. It
seems to have an affinity for wood. A
piece ot wood placed in the vat will
become incrusted with salts until the
accumulation forms a huge bulk.
Wooden vats were used at first, but the
salts gathered on the wood in great
layers and became almost as hard as
rock. The vats are now lined with
sheet iron.
The furnace used is an oil burner.
The dryer is of Scotch manufacture,
unfortunately for the company, be
cause when new parts are needed it
is necessary to send all the way to
Scotland for them. Indeed, at the pres
ent time new parts are required and
have been cabled for. When the dryer
was installed it was not known that
an American dryer could be obtained.
Very soon the company will replace
the one in use with an American
model, thus saving much expense, ,n
--convenience and waste of time secur
ing parts when required. From the
packing room the finished product is
loaded directly on the cars. At the
present time two car loads are shipped
to the eastern market every week,
but the shipments will be greatly in
creased when the capacity of the plant
is enlarged.
The Stewart-Calvert company are
pioneers in the work of utilizing this
one of the many mineral and chemical
natural deposits of Okanogan county.
Ii is handling at a flattering prollt
this salts that heretofore has beau of
no value to the owners or the country.
The industry is a very important one
to the town, as it supports a pay roll
by the employment steadily of 25 to 30
men. Should the European war cease
it is doubtful it the salts could be pro
duced and marketed at a sufficient
1 roflt to justify the continuance of the
industry. If the government will grant
fair protection in the way of a tarriff
on Epsom salts so that this very Im
portant local enterprise could be able
to compete with importations from
abroad there is no reason why the ex
traction of this product should not
continue for years to come. It the
plant can continue its operations it
will be a valuable adjunct to the town,
both as supplying a steady pay roll
and as a local institution that will per
petually keep the name of Orovllle be
fore the public.
which was satisfactory to him. As the
damage on the building was confined
entirely to the roof there will be little
difficulty in restoring that part of the
building. Mr. Devon expects to make
the necessary repairs and add other
improvements to the hotel.
The teachers living away from town
will scatter to their several homes at
the close of school, but will be back
again in September.
UHADUATINti EXERCISES.
This Friday evening, at the auditor
ium of the high school, seven students
of the class of 19 It! will graduate
from the high school, Including Miss
Goldie Mitchell, Miss Bernice L. Des
mond, Harlan J. Fuller, Charles C.
Cole. Theodore A. Johnson, Garland
O. Ethel and A. Lawrence Dallam. It
is the largest class that has so far
graduated from the local school. The
following is tlie program for the occa
sion;
Quartet —Aubrey McMahan, Theodore
Johnson, Lawrence Dallam, Harlan
Fuller
Paper—“ Farm Loans in New Zealand"
Garland Ethel
Class Prophecy ~ .. Theodore Johnson
Solo Lawrence Dallam
Class Will Bernice Desmond
Paper— "Irrigation”— Valedictory—
Chas. Cole
Trio—Misses Louise Studley, Ruth Mc-
Cummon, Hermene Orleger
Address Rev. W. W. atrlte
Presentation of Diplomas
E. E. Parsons
Solo — Miss Elizabeth Graves
FIRE AT CONCONULLY.
Okanogan county Pas sufered from fires
molt: frequently this spring than ever be
lure In its history, ami they are coming
with such regularity as to create a feel
ing of dismay and anxiety In every com
munity. In the order named, Brewster,
Tonasket, Riverside and Orovllle have
contributed to the list of lire losses. In
which individual property owners as well
as insurance companies have been hard
lilt. Now Conconully falls Into line and
adds further loss to the sum total. One
can only wonder what community is to be
the next to undergo a scorching.
Last Friday the high school building
at the old county seat was totally destroy
ed with almost its entire contents. This is
not the old public school building on the
outskirts of town, near the big lake form
ed by the Irrigation dam. but a large two
story building In the main part of the
town. This building was originally erect
ed by the Order of Kagles. The second
story was fitted up at that time as a
lodge room, and the ground floor as a pub
lic hall. It was the largest and most sub
stantial building in Conconully, and con
sidering the present conditions and pros
pects of the town the edifice will probably
not be rebuilt. The school directors had
rented the building, and used the second
story as a high school. It is stated that
the scholars had cleaned up the manual
training room Friday morning, prepara
tory to the closing of the school for the
term, and burned the refuse in the stove.
It Is supposed that tire from the stove
Ignited rubbish on the floor. As there are
no adequate means for extinguishing fire
in the town nothing could be done toward
saving the structure. The school was fine
ly equipped, had a large library and con
tained two pianos. One of the pianos and
a few of the scientific instruments were
saved. The loss is said to have been
$7,00(1 with $4,000 Insurance.
RAISING THE BID.
Announcement was made in this
paper a fortnight ago that the Simll
kameen Water Power company had
sold out to Sivyer & Knloe, of Spokane,
but just now it looks very much as
though higher bidders would secure
the plant. The executors of the Hag
gerty estate, chief owners of the plant,
have received a bona fide bid from
Milwaukee people very much in excess
of the amount offered by the Spokane
firm and much more advantageous to
the heirs of the estate. Under the terms
of the new bid the Hagerty children
secure a far better equity than under
the original bid. The company has not
as yet acted upon the new proposition.
The lust deal was put through by the
attorney of the Hagerty interests, and
it is alleged that the persons making
the offer are men of large capital, in a
position and ready to close the deal if
the offer is accepted.
OBITUARY NOTICE.
Some two weeks ago mention was
made in this paper of the death in
Kansas of J. C. Wild, a former resident
of Oroville, who lived for a time on
the farm now owned by Geo. I. Cole,
to whom Mr. Wild sold the property.
The following is an obituary notice
that is taken from the Fredonla (Kan.)
Herald:
“John Clarence Wild was born near
Beatrice in Gage County, Feb. 21, 1868
and died of heart trouble, in Paoia,
Kansas, April 14, 1616, where he had
gone for treatment, being at the time
of his death a resident of Farmdale, in
Wilson county, Kansas, where he com
bined farming with the mercantile bus
iness during the past four years. He
spent his boyhood and youth in De
Witt, where he attended the public
schools until 1887 when he attended
the Wilber High school from which he
graduated in 1888. He also attended the
M. E. College at Bartley and the Nor
mal college at Lincoln. He taught
school In the Casper district south of
Wilber, at Swunton, DeWltt and
Holmsvllle, always with pronounced
success. He went to Pierre, S. Da., in
the early nintles and engaged a part of
the time in store keeping. In 1902 he
was married in that city to Miss
Blanche Dorothy. To this union three
children were born. Dorothy, Winfred
and Wayne. He is survived by his wife,
his three children, four brothers,
Frank, J. A„ Fred, Ray and one sister,
Mrs. Alicia Bailey, and his mother,
Mrs. Lizzie Wild. He had the misfor
tune while living in Washington to
suffer a heavy loss from fire but not
withstanding this, his family la left In
comfortable circumstances."
11.60 PER TEAR
