turn' : ,,.'
1
A manganese' prospect lour
I miles northeast of Winona has
ibeen reopened1 and a ear load of
the ore is about ready tor ship
ment. Recently a oaf of manga
nese sold in Pittsburg- for .11,000
a ton. Manganes went begging
for $38 a ton at ttie time ;-thr war
broke out in Europe,, but now the
supply does not nearly eqjiai tne
demand. .
An election ' WWHttltfiW Vaytft
oounty raoentiy W1 votfea $200
oons-i
which
How it got there was the ques
i:. nniia' nnlH answer wnen a
WUU "
Aantpv- ftountv sawyer found a
HiKjinwrtwrtu-ad Dltohfork imbed-
ttt haurr nf i man e ok mn bona isbus tor
w ,. Mnvino intn stove lengths, traction of cood roads
mi.. tanahla thflorv i tnat Uarr ed almost 0 tO I. -UIB wiuwo
X llv vessj vM.v.. i - -- -
someone left the torn in me progresstveness on tun
orotch of the tree when it was citizens of that oounty and should
young, and that it grew arouna be followed ny 0mer ouu.
it. Missouri counties ior buiuiu
community
"Some
b. cv; o. ... ,,.,. coln. a lh,t
u' , h3.f nf TaffBrson Citv oioked up
lunch consisting ot - - .
.... .....uUiiitMMiUI(ttUWMMt!!
3 'ROUND ABOUTTHE STATE.
I Cleaned from Exchaneres-Made by the Shears, 5
thtf Pencil' and tire- rw rwi
1 nal. Some Credited, and' Some Stolen.
2 .. i-i. ah I nterestinar Reading.
a QUI lcai ijr ....,. i
.. I yy. 'u .n..... , iha nnfiP
Out of eighty-tour school dis
tricts in Bollinger county U but
eight ave adopted free text
books.
Camp fire girls tt Wellaville
hay, a standing offer of five cents
a hundred for swatted fiies-that
ia, until the money gives out.
ainottn over the prospeots
jfor oil in TexaB county, an Illi
nois man is planning to drill near
Raymondville a 3,0UU-iooi wen,
a pjrthmnnd mail carrier has
- reoeived from California an order
" for twenty or thirty young paw
paw trees and fifty pounds of
. seed.
i'he Southeast Missouri Rural
-ii.. r....!ara Aflsnniation will
liDOt v.lw " I uiwiuw.
meet at Campoeu iBujri ouits aia not su nor.
.30th. All letter carriers are : . ;
urged to attend this meeung. yX--; ,rombia office
WithUie.reotfindingofaino Southea8t Mtogour,f Mp ,?
lMd and coal near there w don,townany ,and and don't d, hou,j be unueuall,
Cabool Press sees no reason why H(j 88y(j he rf
jthe town should not become , d Rt ieJa than the "u n-. few month9 if the)
Boraething of a mining cenver. Qn the mon . oanj
A bit backward about bragging ve8t8i ln ihe land, and finds it wiH make a Ford and then get
usually, Mercer can't help point- m()re profitabie to use his surplus $u , caflb i8 true Tin can
.. 1. Ik. I.al IK.t In . . . ... 1. .1... ma- J..w ...1
ing witu pnae to mo - money in ouymg up-iu-unv diyj whioh was managea oy
one week merchants there ship- 0hinery. New Madrid Record. Wiliin(r Workers, proved, most
ped out eggs W the valu flf 3, . 8UOcesBful, and the total ot cans
$544.70. There,'.1 m A w I ti- in the pile at 11 o'clock, when
A bronze drinking fountain has ooun1a a7d Se has held the conteetlbsed, was 11.142,
been present Charleston , by 1TL Z and .1.000 were brought in afM
fheHToman's IChrlstian-Temper- .. hold . time,
inoe Union. It was Die,e of property which he has Agility often accompanies old
with appropriate ceremonies one P"? ' .. . ! ' in the oase of J. B. Bra-
day last wesk. mortgage for more than six ehears, aged 82, and J.T. Keithly,
One hundred years ago this year8f and the Canadian will aged 63, Mr. Keithly, feeling
rnonththe flrst log cabin was BOon have to do something or his youth last week, made Mr.
built in Louisana by John Bry ,008e the mine. . Brashears a foot-raoe proposi-
son. The city is trying to ' vion, giving Mr. Brashears half
. jrranee some sort ot a cefcbra- Former State Game Warden thf distanoe 0f forty yards, and
' tion to celebration the event, Jess Tolerton has again come in- then to beat hlm running to a
, to (ne iiineugui. iuu umn ""ioeitain point. tr. nowj
WOOden I . , , . t,.j. ,.h . , . r mauH fnr
The season will open for squir- pe 0f The Teeth Import-
m ... i T.... i m - . J TT 14-V
rel shooting tne nrstaay oi nuu. au( xu w ixvanu.
mil l lhnt,f HnAnRAI ,
luoeo wnw uuiiv -v.... - 1 , . .. .l
are liable to a fine of twenty-five How many people re,
. .. i ii . ...t.nn. rin . mnnr tint ntK D IVtU Ul I""
oaiwl. hot notatoes. biscuit, rasp-
berry ioe and coffee was served
for 15 cents, one woman oom-
plained loudly beoause the bis-
hi brimless head covsring he
realised that he had had a close
n. Mr.N Belts is an express
oompany employe, and in taking
onma miners Irom ni8 aeSK Oia?
nlaced a .44-oaliber pistol, a shell
h nli ern odeo. ma vws
lar and it Is better to Invest a preservation of the heaitn oy
dollar for a license than to run gooa wewr sirov, -
.. ...i. nmmht nnd nnnessarv for the proper masti-
fined. oation of t he food. When they
. . .. bp nhinff or sore, this cannot
Five thousand strawberry pic--. "is.-.j onAn M
ers, men, women and large ooys . to ftb-oeM o th
an4 girls, ara wanted to Newton 7 disease. . Ab
county it is sail, to harvest . . tne roota of the
bumper strawberry crop. ,ine . harbor numerou9 kinds of
rate for picking is ! oenis a b, h e mld ,n with
quart, and industrious porkers f"" durinK the tot of 0hew-
. . . Lam m tn K1 b nv.
oan m iru" - no.rrtaA i the d eestive traoi
it is said. t Bnrao.n in various narts
lIIU JUOH n'.v '
There is another entry in the of the body
).vear-olds scheduled for the The disease known as pyor
TPlvtM aii nlnfi. The latest man ,h. which has attraotea so
UIUIVI i - v
i Kat- ha will eonteet Inlm.mVi oftAntion in the last few
tU BIIIIUUVW -M"w -: UIM -.--
k. Jn-v, (a Wil-nrd Richardson, vnnrtl. ia wideeoread, and
91 vears old. and willing to race 0ften the cause of a ' persistent
. i i , u
anv distance from a nunarea disoharge or pus into tne mouvu
warAa tn a mile. Tt m henn nroved also that
I r- - .
" . j ,.o. many oases of neuritis end pain
Twenty-two hours a day has mBny , . ,
kn fha work schedule for the BU . ........
A toll man with th air 01
westerner stopped nar an elec-
trio light at a cigar stana in me
Union Station. Something on
the front of hiseoat glistened. A
jlerk glanced at the object ana
On his coat were tour
$20 gold coins in plaoe of buttons.
When the man unbuttoned his
coat and reaohed for his change
pooket. six $10 gold pieces on
the front of his vest toon in
place of buttons. Three $10 gold
coins deborated each coat sleeve.
...nnin mttl t California since
which
.r. nftn mistaken for rheuma
j i. unA taatti ' nnrl
iinm nun n l. 1 1 iihu i.gkii "
lait fall, with, no . apparent - ' . oul the root9 ot the
......nl nutnut in sint. An . . ,L
1 - - , ,Uoh
imnnrtiint item , manulaoturea
The teeth should be ex-
important item , manuiaoiu eu - db patent dentist
there is cloth which ."B . op at leBBt
lk mnlrinl I C v w J '
eoods nouses uuu-o m ui....B
6 ... i AnnA ever
baseball players' uniiorms
enoe every year, says Dr. M. r.
Ravenel of the department of
-. . xt j rut.. Mill nnmnun- nrnvnntive medioine at the Uni-
has reoeived an order to furnish versity of Missouri, Columbia. In
the hospital for the insane at the meantime, propw
Clarindawitb 7.000 pounds of of the mouth daily is of prime
..1 o fntit nf 20 mnortanoe. ine w
corn mei, """"" r ' , . .i
. . . . 3 il:.. j..ts. u- . u.n.ii iftnr flftoh meal, out
000 pounds rurnisnea iui io- u -
tution within a few montns. ine especially
The use ot waxea hobb
whioh oan be bought at any drug
A $50 gold piece dangled from
his watoh chain. The ooine, were
hM in nlaoe with bands. "I am
Fred MoCormiok," he said in In
troducing himself. "I am a land
agent living near Reno, Nev.
Have yon heard this, etory t
The Crown Prince having a nice
little ohat with his father, he
Butcher of Potsdam, and apropos
of nothing said, "Father- who
started this war"? "I know" said
his father playfully, "but I wont
tell" Did oousin George start
it? persisted the youth. ; No. Did
cousin Nicholas? No, said papa,
Did Francis-Joseph? No, said
the old man. Well, who did then?
I'll tell you, son: You remem
ber Teddy Rosevelt came out of
Central Afrioa and called on us
several years ago, and I showed
him our great and glorious navy
I Bhowed him the Zepps and the
submarines, and the gas bags,
and Teddy greatly impressed,,
slapped me on the shoulder and
said: "Bill, my boy, you can
lick the world," and like a dam
ned fool I believed him.bx.
mill is working day and night
Some fellow "down East" has
l v aw miv&--- UOl mill pwmf - m
Benton oounty has a wooaen ka been sued by Judge Arch judge(1 Mr, Brashears' speed, for
hridce built in 1849, which is in .
D vihiuvuii vf - UJ O IBfcbOi VWIV.V- a
puch good condition that n was thing8 Jegg l9 aueged to have ln the time than did the former.--not
ruined when some miscreant 8aW about th, Judge in the re- Center Herald. ,
recen ly aUempteu -w cent Qity oampaigo, in Spring- hag R oount ham
witn aynamiw. field. Tolerton gained fame ai , . omnlrnhnUBfl at h.
Three large barns on the farm few years ago by trying to stock Uogby hioh wag
of E. H. Sliebury, in Adair the state with pheasants. oured fey fcM father ,n 1879
pounty, burned last week. Forty- , h th ,hoemaker, thirty four years ago, which is
four head of fine cate.ndnle r emporary,fit of aberration plump and of fine appearance,
teen horses perished In the V ' ... shoe aUhopgh seemingly solid as a
flames. The loss is wua sturdav rook. Lucky is a man who has
" Z::. 7 h-m meat in Sufficient quantity
morninir. rmwii" . . , . .
. .Ua inientM .l " j k!v, m.,i,1 hnvii that he can preserve one wiv
r resent imruiMw u wuiuu -u.ui. ... foiinw
lhat the water melon acreags to re8Uitsd fatally had the knife length of time. A own fellow.
Southeast Missouri will be in, been pressed close to the Jugular would have had it in the oven
creased nearly one-third this eio prank had been drinking about the second year, anyhow,
year. Near Blodgett, there are beavily and to this ia attributed -liberty Tribune.
3000 acres Bowed, with the young hi8 aPt. Prairie Eagle. proximity t o Kansas City
plants coming up nicely. , ' n.L j.-,. makes every Saturday just like
P-- . ... B.uh John Pitman,, negro degenar J. For ,
Uonauctor . a. ate with rang pouoe reoora, w fi,(lirj,.
...... T.I..-J ..!i.. will be . .. . . BF... r stance, on a recent Saturday
jtoo i"u - fftta y spot Daturasy i'8 , . .at:.
. i.ho n ia ku 1 ' ' v. u there were three groupes oi reu-
pensionea y ..-o t th8 ?rooneia nre earn ? hQmRg Berice9
Harry Hamuton, . - tw0 Widtoint bar.
and driver for w. nre uep.r,- lo02.haIred man trying
ient. Pitman died an hour or ker a long n b ,
t Li I Ul nClllTlIlUQ UV -
so later, having receivea ht h th
bullets in bis head and body, and . I X .ho.
i .... . i nnriii.uioB. n nu ...... .w .
X l. LJU... hnpaA 1 nnA In hlB hand. I . j j
lieoauee na 1 Itograpner, a raaor anu iiver"t
for which he traded as an 8-year- miM whJch thf68 Dade 8aleBman and & tent skating rink.
oia ns eeen n - ,,. hrnthers. from seven . . , . th.
!!?t.S5.fU.'1b?-J """' 60 - i"""' L.tHtel..U1..b.r...n,.,
undertaken the task to "human
ize" business Utters, and an
Ozark editor wonders how this
world benefactor will be able to
with: "If we do not receive your
romittanoe by return mail we
ah .11 nlaoe this aocount in the
auda of our lega 1 department.',
A Kansas City civil engineer
last week eomploted a survey of
what is known as Mud kae,
mith of Beverely. The survey
of the lake and surrounding land
was made for A. E. Lombard of
Kansas City, who owns about
1000 acres. The Jake at present
nnnkains about 600 aores. These
lowlands lay between the Bur-
lineton and Rook Island railroads,
and when drained will be some of
the finest famine lands ln the
United States. The drainage
ditch will be out through to Bee
oreek or south into Maupm orselc
Ar-d his time with the com
pany. We hate to see Conductor
Smith leave this run and will miss
his face at the Rushville station.
Rushville News.
pourts by charging u - . th. rea, Btutt" was
withwhom he traded obtained rttiwk t a depth of 1-? feet,
money under false pretensss. youn(?8ter8 haT6 done an the
The injunction suit of Cape w0rk themselves, and their shaft
Girardeau County against the 9 equipped with a hand -Tioist
Little River Drainage District to wjt a one-gallon bucket for a
prevent the latter from cutting tub. Five wash tubs were filled
across country roads without wjth silicate, and when they re-
htiildinor bridges over the cuts
has been decided by Judge Kelly
favorable to the oqunty, An ap
peal has been taken,
oeived a check for $2140 for
their output they agreed that it
as a pretty fine way to play.
ted at Higginsville where a silvsr
dollar is plaosd at fire headquar
ters, and the first msmoer io r-
riva there after an alarm is given
ia entitled to the prize. A boy
imitated the fire whistle so per
fectly the other day two members
of the volunteer company Jid a
foot race to headquarters and
when the winner of the raoe
learned ot the hoax, he refused
to surrender the coin.
Sundav'afternoon an unknown
man was run over and instantly
iriiiAn1 at the crossing in the yard
at Fornfelt. He appeared to be
ahnnt 60 vears old, but there
.Are no DBners or anything else
on him by whioh he oould be
i,iAntified. He is supposed to
have gotten on the train at Delta.
He was seen to throw a suit caae
out of a box car and then attempt
A in Hiimn out himself, he land
ad nn his feet but fell baok under
the train, he was literally out to
nianaa "the wheels passing over
his stomach, he was also soalped
dhiaarms and leas broKen
H was neatly dressed and had
good clothes In his suit oase but
not a soratoh that wouia ieu
his indenity. He was about
t..i a :nkSa tail Hark hair, no
IBOt luuus. ""t ' '
ihnd about 60 years old
Tha train, which was a Cotton
Belt freight, in charge ot con
ductor Easier, was just coming
into the yards and, was not going
over 4 miles an hour. A coro
ner's jury returned a verdiot ot
A(.l.rtl a I MBit Ui: he had sum
he had some money in his poo
ket. lllmo Jimplioute. '
ainrA. Is to be reoommenueu.
This is passed between the teeth,
taking care not to out tne gum.
A small amount of brusmng
with a elean tooth brush should
foliow.
Tooth washes and tooth pow-
flora are to be reoommended, but
should be used in their
UUt vpi "
AA-lention. Never use a tooth pow
der. the erit of which can be
fait between the fingers. The
nommon prepared chalk is one
, P ... at I .
$ m hnat Tnutartals lor inis
Ul V
numose. Itiscammonly mixed
with powdered white castile soap
cive the soap-uxe leeiuig
which "most people desire
Seleotion of the tooth brush
.k.,M ha made with care. U
ehouldn't be too large or too stiff
As soon as the brietles begin to
come out or break off, the brush
should be dieoarded, for these
(...o.iaa atinlt into the crums and
Uliaviva M " - - b
open the way for the penetration
of disease produoing germs with
the formation of absoesses along
the root of the teeth. It is best
always to have several brushes,
never using the same one twice
running. In this way, eaoh
brush is allowed to beoorae
thoroughly dry before it is used
again. The brush should
be thoroughly wasnea m
hot water and sunned for severe
hours at a time. In this way it
can be kept clean and sweet.
to not wait for pnin in the
teeth and jaws before consulting
dentist. In no oase is tne ad
age of "prevention being better
than oure" more marked than in
the oare ot the teeth.
..K nntii-A ne a nDftftfttl
HNU DUWta vr i wivwv.-
ien (0 Fej
InCM-
PomI! Remilm of Spcolmen
In length Uneartneci
nesa Cave.
A young farmer sold a pair of
tnn Inn to buvers for $500. The
buyers took them to Higginsville,
and the former Owner .saw me
animals after they had been
sheared and asked how much
profit the buyers expected to
l.o TIa as tola 919. lie
IllftAV. w "
ni,l the money, together with
the check ot $300, and took the
mules baok home with him.
BhanEhal, China. Thie the drago
year in Japan, and It is appropriate.
that that prematone oe uum"i
emerge from the well-Known mi
ot agee" and take his place as a for
sure fossil In testimony tnat ww or
be, we have the story of a correspona
ent ot the Time: ''.".
"That the dragon once exiawo
riin mn no loneer doubt, for wa
have seen tosBillzed apeclmens of hha.!
Doctor Irwin of Tientsin, wnne t
i.. wa fnr soma days, explored the
river banka at the entrance to the
tonea. In a cave was rouno wnai
ha fnutl remains of a
UllUUUUlbUij .
ltn1 fit Amwnn.
a .nnrintn measures SO tWA
tn length, while there are also several
mall or young ones. This is an Inter
esting discovery, and has naturally
aroused considerable talk among the
rvi.... whn ran now without
"
geratlon declare that tney he seert
what every respectable Chinese of ma
ture age likes to aay he has seen, a
dragon, though ln this Instance a fos
silised one. A small portion naa wu
Chipped off and sent to the British mu
se a."
SUNFLOWERS A PAYING CROP
Raised by Farmers In Southeast Mia
eourt on aa Large a weie
as Com.
Kansas City, Mo. In southeast Mis
souri farmers raise sunflowers to feedi
chickens. Many farmers ln NeW
Madrid county, Missouri, are' growing
sunflowers for seed on as large a
scale as they grow corn.
Tha aeed ia hiah in oil and protein
and makes an excellent feed. It 1
used chiefly as a feed for parrots an
as a part of the commercial poultry
feeds. The seed is purchased each,
fall by general seed buyers from St.
Louts.
The soils tn which sunflowers are
vrAn ara fha nnea ewamDV lands and
. .., l. Tha,
range irum saiiuy iuaui v. "-i i
a-i-ra nrodnntlon la about 8,UUU W4
16,000 pounds of seed to the acre. Tha
.,..! aalllnar nrlcs is from 2H to 4
cents a pound. The average return la
ahnut (40 for each acre. Some of thai
farmers are growing the sunflowers Irs
nl.M nf mm. . . 1
Tha nnn la nlanted about the Same;
as corn. In the labor required to han-1
dllng and cultivation, the two crop
are alike. When the crop matures, a
wagon Is taken into the field and Ui
heads are cut off and thrown Into- the
wagon. The seed ara then throUa4
ut with a threshing machize.
