" .11
jJl1
ftnmt
mmml
52D YEAR.
OREGON, MISSOURI, FRIDAY, MAY 19, 191 i.
NUMBER 3.
NOT Ml'CII IM)IN: IN COl'IIT.
'I In- Ma Term or Circuit Court Now
In Sclon A Very l.tfiltt
Ducket.
Tin- clirult rourt ilnckit for Hip
Mny term. I'M, la one of the very
lightest in many years, mid Judge
Humes hn. been pushing lint busi
ness there Ik In n lively manner nml
distuning nf the business n fnst ns
It in posihtp. Ho wn lion- Month'',
plomptly im time, nml started lit mill
to grinding, nml llio prosecuting nt
Inrney dumped several state mscs In
tn tin; Justice hopper, nml tin tesiill
wn n number nf parole nml other
c,ascn were llif !- I nf. Thp other
nfliccrn nf tlip court were nn hand nml
liml their (ml of llii- Mllng wrll In
linml.
We nn- glad t know tlint (lie court
trnKi"nlirr. Mr. I.cedy, who lint
been nliicnt from court on account nf
Illness, wnn nblp to bo present nml lie
lit bin desk. . hn linil n hmil time
to leenver from tin ot-rntlnn, which
)m dcpilvcd liiui nf n considerable
iiiitount of his ndvcidiipols, some of
which hi' ciiulil well uirord to dispose
of.
The petit Jury In composed nf Hip
following:
llentnn W. It. Swope. .1. C. Wilson,
I". K. Ilurnrtt, Wm. Wclghtman, Jr.
Illgclow Frank (ircshnm.
Clny Lester llodgin, Jnnnn Wrhrll,
llnwniil Chnuilicrn.
Korbcn Klnicr Wnles, Whl. Ilnr
l Iron.
Knrcst IM Wilkes. John Anno.
Hickory Win. (ilenn.
Lewis Henry Ailolph, S. M. Ilu
ell. It. W. Kennedy.
Liberty Krank Cottier, I'rnuk
Judy.
Lincoln llmmctl liner.
Mlntim P. I Itoiniiie.
Nodaway Jnhu I'ciicrhaclicr, Much
llrohnn.
Union Henry DcLong, W. J. Ilan
ilall. The couit ilirclinrK'il the following
defendant who win- granted parolci;
Jeir Shiilirer, Lester Miukt. Millie
Hner. John Wood, (iimcr Chcsncy
nnil Thouuin I Infer.
The followinic were coiitfnueil umler
parole: Karl l.'iiml.ill, Itnsroo Itlaziv,
I .ii- Pilkingtmi nml I'nil Nelson.
Stn'.p vs. Call linndnll urn! James
Hrown, foiiml guilty of gambling nt
plevloun term of colli t, were granted
until August 1, to llle hill of excep
tion?. Stnto v. Jnmen Cnrrett. for fulling
to cut hedge fence. Dismissed ut cost
of ilefemlnnt.
Ktiite v. W. II. Donnn. operating
motor xcldrle without light. Din
.missed nt ilcfcmlmit'it cost.
State vs. Jesse Cnrdicy, operating
motor vehicle without Unlit, Sta'o
iIIkmiIum'!..
The cn' of the Stute vn. CliniK's
Wlckler. petit lurceny. Contltiueil.
.Stnte vk. Dnvlil riincher, Miluctln.i.
C'lititlnticil.
Stuto vk. CeoiKe liiimlle, KnmMliiir.
Cnntlnueil.
Stnte vk. Klljnli linmlnll, cmnlillntf.
Contlnueil.
Stute vk. John 1'lehl, inpe. The
nlTeiiM' wnn nllcKetl to hnvc Ik'cii
commlttcil mi n MIkk OkiIcii, l.'l yearn
ulil. The pailh'K to the null entrreil
Into n innrrliiKo coutinct, nml the
Mate illmnlKKCil the uit.
.State vk. A. IM lleneillct, lil);niny.
Ilefemlnnt wan n niemhrr of the paint
piiK of the C. II. & (. rnilrnml. Ilu
Ik mnrrieil nml hail n wlfo nml two
chllilren In St. Joxcph. While nt wink
nt Cralir, he mnrrieil n MIkk Kthel
JnliiiMtin, of that city. He ptcnil
Kullty to the clinrKe nml wiik Kiven
two yenw in tlie penitentiary.
Homer Quimliy wan churKeil with
n . .. . 1 1 1 ., I , I . . H. Itl 1 .
.Monilny, nml nn Tuctuluy, lie pleaif
Kuiuy ami huk nncu .i.ihi.
lluy It AKuin.
The county court on Mnmlav of lat
week mill nt private i-alo Mime :i(iU!)
ncre of wliat Ik tcrniril nn "linr
Inniw" or Kwnmp lamln. The IuiuIk
nriRinnlly hml bevn puiclmn'il by the
luu tlcH now buvlnir niraln. Imt tho
Inniln hml been cnntincnteil by the MU
ruuri river, nml were mnilo back, nnil
tho county court conllKcnteil It, umler
the color of Inw n "bar InmlK," nml
inthcr than eniraRo In Iohk litigation,
the partlcH concluded to niruln buy tho
lands nt the price offered by the coun
ty, per acre $l..5 of thin nnx
Into the school fund, anil HO cents for
the purpone or puylnK for the survey
ami other 'expenses.
Thoso mnkliiR purchnses were:
S. W, Wllllntns anil Alice Cunlnp
hnm, llltO acres.
Ilrynn & Collins, 160 acres.
? I.yille, 'J 10 acres.
Ktlgnr Ilrynn, fift acres,
? Collins, CO ncreu.
Hna Kichls, 254 acres.
Wm. Ogilen, I!"0 acres.
James Ottden, 1G acres.
Jnmes V. Ithniles, U'i'2 acres.
Wiliam Ilrown. 125 acres.
Mrs. S. I. Hunker, 11 acres.
Kmmctt Hlnklc, .:i acres.
John C. Hinkle, OS!) acres.
r, it'.: ... 1 1 hhh - i mtw
i wim in KHiwirou j HMHanaw -r
O I f'AHADf : . I UiyatflMtIAYl '
I"" 2 ' K. J I
I
frmt -iSii'Vf ttvvi
lHUWtiVfr7alflgtti'.TViFiT5r"
W-,. Sn&OshotS Avlu n IniihI ol lel ii ii- i iooihI Hie Ti'im Imi (it ntiit niiitileriil kiiIiIIoin nml i IiIIIiiik In siiinlt llhii;e. the piexldeiit nt nm'e
JI1II1UI mil Hie mlllllu of tlirec lnte, relcii'lnu Hie ri-miliirn fur wink In .Mexico; lliterieiillnn eeuieit ne.irer. Tlie Mtf Kle.iuier
'Of tho WccU Cinrlc, with miiiillloii, nut torpedoisl. white in u wlndiip of the siiliiunrliie iinlrotery rieli!eiil Wll-on liifnriniil (leniinii)
Hull we iHTI'tcl her new 1 1 tint wlthnlit Rtij .tiilllnii; llrl pli tuie of Siioex illnler nrthe. IViiic rilimirt cliciiliileil
nn It wn s.ilil Hint I'ope lletieillit XV had iniide niUntice In the plr-1 lenl In ik ii iiinllntnr riilipic In hltory wn Hie piepHreliie pnrmle In New Vork
city, with oer lim.iniil pnll.pniil. rullnwlin: I lie ei-.uloii of l'ieldi'iit Ten -e ninie lrlli reli'l I Ier were hi'li Sir Uaer I'li-euienl ilirtilnt In ileleml
bluiclf In ptibtlo trial, l.leiileiiaut I'uy elt eltfht je.irs tor iitleiupllim to up ullleil r 1 1 1 1 . WINun telli "by lie tinineil lliiindel tur Miprvine lumt
CnnlrncN l.l.
The cltv cn'incll on Momlnv nf thN
week, Mny IS, let the contract for
nnvlmr cirtnln strerts In our city.
There lm In-en sevrrnl hitches, nil nf
n trchnlriil chnrncter. Hint hnve rnus
eil n di'lnv In eettlni; tn n lirml, nml
we will not nttrtnnt to say Hint tm
enil of lechnlrnlltlcs linve been rench
mI but we ilo hope so, nnil Hint wntk
will le well under wny by the end .f
J uii".
I he rnntrncl for navimr .NiHlnwny.
Mnln. MNsoiiri nml unit nf Wnshlin;-
ton Ktteets In iisiitinltiiui nml enncre'e
wns nnnnler to A.JnleKK I'nvlnitConi
pnny. nf K'niuns City, nt $1.70 per
Kimum niil; ruihliiK nml niitteilmr,
nt TO cents ner lineal foot: irnulliiL.
!ir, cent per cubic jnul.
l lie iimcniintnitlitK oi tiiKiuiKio'i
street from Hie iletrnt tn N'oilnwnv
street uns let tn the llhlnehnrt I'tiv-
Intr Comiimiv. of .' I. .IiothIi. nt IJ1-
lier squnre ymil' cuiblni; uml KUttc
lni(, cents per lineal foot; Kindim;,
jri ceutK per cubic yard.
Just ii short time before the bids
were oneniil. Mnvor Muriiiv wns nn-
proiirheil by some pnitles nskltii; for
n ciiniiKe in pnvini; wnsiiuiKion Mieei
from ninriidiiui to iiiplinltuui, nml Ii"
rulleil the nttentlon of the council in
the matter, nml Hie council Mild, lnn
much ns the property owners hml pe
titioned fni iniicudniii, that uoiiM
hnve to ko; it wns ton Inte to mnkt
nny chalice, besides this, the whoV
iuestinn nf pnvliiK would have to be
Kin over f I mil the very stmt. Sn we
muss now Hint we me Kolnt; lo hnve
12 blocks or unveil slleels ns n stiirter.
nml we hope that It will Income so
Infectious that wltli the close of l!U
we may see both WnshliiKton nml Nod.
iiwuy stuetK pnveil their entire lenKtli.
Ilroke lli I.CK.
Our popular mllroml nircnl, Pum
Miinn. I tnklm: n rest- not brcntiiK
I .on k To lie Iti'ineinbcreil. 1
It wns n ihiv lonir lo be reinembeiiil
it Ixl mc the dny of the meeting nf
lie feelK tlreil, but nn nrcoiint nf mnk- Hie Mlsslonniy MK'ety of Hie I'lesby-
imj n mis'Step, lust I riiiny imirnlur. i-"nii eliurch. I he society hmt nc-
Mnv 12, n he slenneil olf the ii'ntfoini
nt the depot. In some wny bis foot
torreil, he l.innl sonictblmr "snnpi"
Hie boys loudiil blm into Hob's hnrk
nml tiHik him mi In Dr. Kvnns' olllce.
The Doctor t.M Don be bnd n Potts'
finctuie, which menns the IninklnK nf
the small bone, cnleil the "libuln,"
nboiit three Inches nbnve the tinkle
joint. As It Is conslileiiil rather n
illlllcult frnclme to reduce. Dr. Ilul-
nted nn invltntlon to hnve this slur-
il tiiet'tini; with one of Its member,
'r. Jnmen Murray, of Napier, mi
' e f li nil which l beil"llfilll) lociitoil
n what In known ns the Penny lake,
l i e tnortiltn; didn't look ciy pioni
inn. but It seemed the bo.tess dliln'l
,mie nny time lit utiikliii; piepninlioti
r Hie iH'Ciisii'ti. nml when the time
tioe for Hie society to lake their
li.nn""n' mini On iron to 'Napier,
h'k. nf Km est City, wns cnllnl to eerbihl) wns tvndy. nml it
''. t . nml nfier toittnltiL' Don for n
s'lo'l H"ie. the DixMnr iiinmiiiiiriii It
n S"e-es. inol n"il lillll liolce to get
triimbit"i Willi his ftunlly for n few
Iny. Ills neM ni'ix iiniiui' nun Ih nn
four le'ts, but we lire nlfeilni; odd
Iti"! in the follow Iiil' heine iiiennl:
Mefihimes ti. W. ('iiliiliiln. (!. I.
nun mis. I!i liiea Curlle, T. A. flint
Ii. CllrnlH'tb l.i Inner. (ieoi'Ke l.eli
i l'. Dim Mnitln. !iiiri:e Mutinv. Joe
Mm ray, Chits. IJinhill, Chiis. Ituley,
that they won't keep him laid up n Kiiti'Scott. llaii) ijneixoi, Ale Vim-
ilny burner tlmn In ticlunlly iietessnry
n
Hiisklik. Albeitn Utiuki'l, .Ins. Miitiuv,
1,'alpli Monir. Prin McDnnnlil. All.eit
Murkt, t'lias. Muil.t. J. I', Chandler.
Huivey Kvnns. Cmil Miiitin, Mm el
Operated I'pon fur Appiiiilirill,
l.ce Mopheiison. nf N Ickell s nove. stewnil. Avon Muiui. uml Miss Ida
h i, .S M:V'r:, '.,lc,' 1s!l,M,n? ",' I Huley, nil of Oiei'ons iiml Mrn. While.
7.. .. i . ' V, i '. 1 "' ''Iloiil, or .St. Joseph. Ari Mlnn.en Ion
HoKnii. wlio wun rulleil nt once, ills- ll(f, Afn, Xiilnn-I. Alt Cook. Avlor
coereil Hint he wns mi reiliiK fnnn i,n mi( rnH c,,!,!,.,., f Xupler. weie nl
ncute iittncl; nf nppemlli'itlK. On Hie,,, undent.
O. II. S. Notes.
I'lils week is the Inst for recitations
nf the school year. Next week will be
devoted to eshmlnatious ami the vail
ouk eNcrciscK.
I lie renort of the inspector nf hlnii
schooln wnn rerelviil this week. He
wus much pleaed with the Improve-
iiients nnil prospects oi ine uieon
Public Schools. The school wns con
tinued on the llrst-clnsn list.
I he prospective members of tho
Tencber-Tralnlnc Course nre busy,
this week, urrntiKinR their schedule
for next year. About llfteen hnve
sIkiiciI up for this course. Miss Kdlth
Mnrshnll, of the University of Mis
souii, is to le the teacher.
Calendar for Next Week.
Sunday, May 21. at 11 A. M line
e.iiuiiiente sermon by l!ev. C. K. Klip
liarilt at the M. K. church.
Tuesday, May l, nt 8 P. M (irmlo
enleitalniuent.
W.Klnesdny, Mny 21, at 8 P. M.,
(.ninuiitliiK exeivlrts.
Thursday, May 2.1, at 8 P. M
I Iililh Kraile entertainment.
I'rK'ay, .May 20, at 8 P. M.. Class
play, "The Kingdom of Heart's Con
tint." Tickets for the nbove exerclfcs will
be on sale at Phllllpx' druK store nt
S A. M tho dny of each entertain
ment. All rntertalninciits will be held
in tho new IiIkIi school buildinir.
KeepIilK Step.
Our slater city of Maitland Is keep
ing step In the forward movement In
th? cause of education, and tho pa
trons of that district nro tn be con
gratulated in registering their voto
so overwhelmingly In favor of tho
proposition to bond tho district in tho
sum of $20,000 for the erection of a
new high school building. The elec
tion was held Tuesday of this week,
May 10, ami resulted in favor of the
proposition by a vote of 134 for and
20 against.
Maitland always docs tho right
thing at tho right time.
Deserved ItecoKillllnil.
Lieut. Chnilcs S. Kloyd, of St. J
sepli, lias been appointed Instructor in
mechanical drawing at West Point,
according to word received in St. Jo
sepli, Mo., by his patents, Mr. and
Mrs. Charles N. Kloyd. 1211 Powell
stieet. Lieut. Kloyd Is 27 years .old
and in initiated from St Joseph Cen
tral high school In 1007. He was ap
pointed by Krnnk Kulkcrson ns n
endet nt West Point.
The father of this young man will
be well and favorably remembered by
many of the nunlls of the late Prof.
O. C. Hill, who wus superintendent of
our high schools 'In 1870-70, and nl.tn
Airs. Alice iteatli, now Airs. Proctor,
of ilulfnlo, New York, who was then
principal. He Is also a nephew uf
Mrs. .Cassandra Kelly, of near this
city.
Mrs. Grace Cowdcn and children,
of Corpus Christl, Texas, have remov
ed to niaitianil, tins county. Mrs,
nA..,.in ... ii.,,i KABM t,m i
vu,ti(v(, .uiiiv,ij iiivu iicm tfiaiiiaiiii,
and was the wlfo of the late Klllntt
Cow-den, who died In Oklahoma In the
spring or iuiu.
folouliu; Monday, he wns taken to Hie
l.llswotl I minimal. In M. .lo.enli. oe.
companleil by his wife, brother, Knil.
sister, .Mrs. Jnmen lliintz, nml Dr.
Ilogim. where Hie ntioendlx uim i.
moved in the afternoon, nml nt oil'
limirof going to press, be wns nvtnu
ii'l'v nml strong hones weie enti..
tnlned for ii speedy lecnvely. Some
few enm ngn, Hull had n slmllai al
tneli, but soon lecovereil, but thin tlmi
the appendix wns ilecoinpnseil nml
gungieiii' had set in. nml only the
prompt nrtlun of Dr. Ilognn saved ills
life.
Mrs. Cole I lam nml little ihiueli.
ter. nfter a few days' visit with her
parents, C, J. Kuhrmnii uml wife. ie-
turned to her home
.Monday of thin week.
In St. Josepli,
so present.
Of course, It look ears to take thee
Imliei to Mi. Mm ray's, nml the men
bud to go along to drive the cuts, uml
it seems Hint the ilrivein piepan.l
th elven with the niressiny llshing
tuekle uml bull, uml while the ladles
weie eiijojing their pingrnm. the men
seeimil to be htiM' hml n goo. I time on
the Inkr llshing, While theie weie no
big lish cnuglit, they till hml n goml
time. After being served with hnel)
refit'ohmeutx nml some ImimI tides,
the nil took their depaituii' for their
homes nil being thankful Hint they
weie nue of the society that bud been
so loyally enlei tallied by such li
rliuriiilng hostess.
Jesse Knlui. of the lllg Uike ills
tl'iet, I etui lied from II few days' visit
ill St. Joseph, Monday of this week.
mm
Are You Interested?
K.vcry cltUen nf Oregnn nnd siirrounillni:
rountry, Is iiigenlU reijuesteil to meet nt
the Couit House, Oiegon, Mo
Saturday Evening,
May 20, 1916
at s o'clock.
Matters perlnlmug tn the snciul nml gen
eral welfaie nf Oregon and the surrounding
rountry, nml espiiinlly In tcgnid to good
ronds, will be discussed.
A prlrc nf $.V(iH in ensh will be given to
Hie person, submitting a name fur this or
ganization, Hint will be nibintrd by the or
ganization. The name Is to be submitted In
scaled envelope, and deposited with Secre
tary llodgin, not Inter Hum 0 p. m., .Satur
day, Mny 20. The name of the party sub
mitting the name, not tn be made known
by the secretary until the name is agreed
upon,
At a meeting of n few of our citlzem,
Tuesday of last week, the club was orga
nized by electing I.. I. Moore, president; S,
K. O'Kallon, vice-president; W. S. llodgin,
secretury-trcasuier. The club adjourned to
meet nt the Couit House, Saturday eve
ning, Mny 20, nt h o'clock, at which time you
AUK KXPICCTLI) TO
n
hi: piti.si:.NT. I ifs
OMlmit.
Mr. Ciiirge W. Opel, youngest son
of Mr. nml Mrs. W. C, Onel. was born
In Holt count v. Mo near the vilhig"
of lilclivllle. July 211. ir7l'.. II he
I'l'l'W ll !' llCHsl Unit IIII.IiI'ihmI m n
rbilstinii commiinltv. nml s'.irrnumled
hv ii christian ititlueuce of boii'e.
here ' n tnmiht to in in nml In
stmctiil in leligton. Hint wn dally
befon bis eyes, ns nil example of bin
Pnienis. iieorge wnn n ngiiinr nt'
tetulniit of Siimlny mIiooI. and iireic
iil bis' t net Ion i,i inii'ihistn l lo.
n-'io.', nml nfier daiH exiindniitlo'i
tl et in. ii taken in n n full nienibi r
i ' 'he Mi Hiiwlifl i biiiih.
Ili-.i'he' Opel nfier lli.l.plng tl.e
r ml si lio il. iit'ei'diil Oir""i bl!i
1i.miI until hi- health fnlliil him. In
."ii'xli. psin. he went to U joining.
"lien1 ne iivin eigiu jeiirs, uml rnnn
t' ev be went to High Idler, AIIh-iIii,
Cnnndii. Ib"e he rumled llsn !. I
!"'.. Diriinbi'i' I. Idll. She died
August til, P.ii::, b fixing no inrntit
i .i 'ttuti r, who illiil six months laier.
Ibis was ti beiivx lo-s for blm. urn
f ' ' then on. hi. health fallrd blm
vi'ildx. A ear ngo IiipI winter lie
iv. d Ills agiil mn-eiits. nml In the
spiing went to Cnlifoinlii for bin
health, win ti' he lived until the dentil
or Ins father, lie ti'uiniinil ut hmue
with bis imitlier to lomfiilt her Itl he
sorrow. He missed nwnv suddeiilv
Mny HI, nt 1:1. P. M Just seven
weeKS tiller Hie iientll or Ills rilllief.
Hie ruiieinl took plave Weiliiesday
May 17. ut 2 P. M.. from the M. ('.
chkiich. ceiiiliictiil by 'li'ev. W. U
.Mover, assisted liy.l) V. Clagetl
nml the lemulns weie Im.i tn rest lie
side Ids father. The I. O. O. I', lodge,
of which he wnn u member, rom hiiled
the ceremony nt the grnie,
Ilo leaves to mourn Ids loss.
mother, one blotter. Lewis, of Iliirh
'Im i', Albertn, Ciiumlai one sister.
.Mrs. Alum Lewis, ol Miliums, III,;
four nephews. Iwo nlceen nml many
, loll-. , , Im.'I,
O
Lusl ProKrniii ill Hie Sru-nn.
On Tuesday evening. Mnv il. the
Piircnt-Tcurhcr Association held Hn
la -I imli'le session for the pieseut
enooi year, ai ine mgii school mull
inriuni, nt which lime n slim t, but in
(cresting program wns n ndeied.
1 The exeicise bv the iirimurv ileum!
meat. In elmtgn of Misses llurgert
nun Kissinger wnn very rieilllaiiii'
I Misses Kslher Kellev nml (I lure Mr,
, Donald gave n piano duet thut wun
excellent. A vncnl solo by Mrn. I! rare
'I'liugaii wan Highly appreciated ami
well received.
A paper nn "How to Make Our
i.'..l...i ,!. e. i, ts..i i...
...ii,,,,, iiiifun.ip i.eiiiiiiiui. iiv iiei mi
Sclilllte, ii former student of the Mis,
suiiri llntiiiilriil (iaiilen. or ".Shaw
Harden" (pcihaps the most noted
landscape school In the world), wan
renu mm nsirncii in wnn ileeii intep
est. Mr. Schulte'n nimer will Im In,
(cresting nml helnfiil to nil ulm nie
thinking about the beautifying of
their Inline giouiuln. am will tlieie
fore be found In another column nf
thin week's .Sentinel.
The closing number wnn tin Intel',
esting nnd Instructive paper, In which
Dr, Wood discussed matters peilaln
Ing to school snnllntlon, In which tho
suggestions were practical nml in
keeping with (he approved lilcun of
cleanliness anil snmvillon.
The association then ndlnuinril for
Hie hummer vacation, to meet niruln
when the new school yenr opens In
.Ti'picinoci,
o
I'lnuer Ampnlaled.
, .Master Hoy llrock, aged about four
yearn, son of Wnltcr llrock, residing
nn Hie Dungnn farm, Just west of
town, had the luisfortuno to get Hit)
first linger of the light band cnuglit
in a wringer, mursuay or last xvceK,
May 11, mashing it so severely Hint
Dr. J. L. Ilogan, assisted by his broth
er, Dr. K. K. Ilogan. of lllgclow, had
to amputate the finger, Just back of
the second Joint. Tho little fellow is
getting along all right.
Master Itobcrtson Clagctt, son of
Dr. D. M. Clagctt and wife, of St. Jo
seph, Is hero with his uncle and aunt,
Rev. T, A. Clagctt and wife, during
tho absence of his parents at the ses
sion, of the General Assembly of the
Presbyterian church, now In session
at Atlantic City, Mew Jersey,
MA KIM! A (illl.AT rKillT.
O.tkbind S.iiiinij', (Jrcat right
Amid Mloiirl I'm
Sentence.
"Oakland Snmmv." "S'n.n l!n-.
ii'ond," .Imne. P. Kelly evidently
ne lit like Missouri, and Is Linking
long, lll'snel'llle flit it til Itrrn fmt
lolng Hue in Hie MI.koiiiI nmllrn.
llnry. but Sheiilf (ielvln in doing bit
pan lo get .'lien Haymond back to
the stnte nnd in the penitentiary ii
ne n live liar sentence for lobbing
the H.itllcM A uinn stole, at JInll-
'ami, .iiiminix i;. ivis.
I'llkllll'll Slim. 111. n lie U limun
(II Hip rilmimil world. b!iw th,. .nf..
of H p llntlleld A- yeinn drug ilwv
on (hp nlgi.t mentioned nml seeunvl
'i in jeucli. i. wnlclies, etc.
I!. IM - a - i n ir -brrbr nt
tlie time, nml lie i.i,cceiiled III liHllllhg
liny l n, I:....,hu ft I I .
....,.....,., ... .tint-,,,. , nj, nun .
Inndeil In Jnll In Oirgnti, a few weeks
following the ciline. lie was trlnl nt
Hie April (inn of nur clirult court
Hint jenr nml wnn gixen live jenrn In
the penitentiary.
i.nriy in April, is-pr,, nn unsuccess
ful ease of robbery wnn attempted on
Hip I'uriiieis' Hunk of Miiltlnml, nml
in duo time. Sheiiir IMxxunU had
bin man, who gave the name of .lumen
'. nml he. (on, wnn rnnxictcd nt
Hie April, IV.iS, term, and given lio
Jeiirn in (he penile nHnry.
The week following the conviction
of lliesp tun men. they were placed in
cniiige ni two iie imy Mierllls, wlni
left for Ji'irerpon ( it v. on Mnv .(. nml
on (he morning of Mn ft, the two men
unpen iiom u .missouii I'aeilie train.
Oral wan captured, but liaymoml
mmie nis get-awn). Cray serxeil bin
(line.
Nothing wnn hennl of liiivniond fur
seieial jenis. when it wns lenme.1
(hut he was lining time in (be 1'iileml
oi l on nt Atlnntn, Ceorgin, for osV
olllce robbeti.
S'lerllf tielvln kenl in Iniich wl'b
he prlwin iiuHinriiies. nt Al'nntti. nnd
n expirntlou or seuti lire, nur shell!
wn. theie Willi tciml-ition papers. but
liiiy.iini.u mm empmyeii n lawyer, ami
'lib"ns coiihk nimeiilings nml other
tei'liiilrnl step- taken, uml Hie right nf
"Xtnulitii'ii was fin'glit tlitoiigli the
highest coi.i'l of (iiorgin. but Kelley
llnymoml wn iM-aten. Now Kcllcy'-i
uttnrney, ll Hip l.'lst ilespcinte move,
in- tippliid lo the Supieme Couit of
i bin gin for u writ of error, currying
up i uc rase noin tnni tinniiiiii, wiurii
ceciiitli biimled down a ilecis on nd-
verM to llnimoml-lielley. Should the
nrn H iiemeii, Ills tiKoriiey will go Pi
Wadiliif !on, ami piesent ids applica
tion to one of Hie Supreme Court
.lustlies. with the view of ircttlng the.
lii.e iiitu the highest ttlbtinnl ill that
wny. I lie light lieiug iiiude by liny-nioiid-Kelle)
ban nttinrtiil iiiurb nt
tentlon In Hint section of the coun
try, uml especially mining the bar.
Sheiiir Celvin (inn made two trip
lo Atlnntn In gel liaymoml, Imt ban
been pievented by techulcaltles, Joo
llnKlolil went with bli.i once to iden
tify Kelley as liaymoml, liaymoml
si t'l.ig up u case of mistaken1 Idcn
titiy. Then Judge Stallard arcoi
nled him nn a deputy sherilf to help
lie'vlii tiling Ids iiinn to Missouri, but
they enme Pack empty -liumleils
Ami there you nn linyiiuiml in n t
in the Missouii penlti ntlary yet.
A l'eii-1.
A "feast." why least" l no iinmo
for the sumptuous dinner Hint wn
put out on (he tables at (lie Woods
school, at noon, on Mnv by the g I
hntlcs of the iielgliboihoml. Of coins.',
you nil know it wun tlie closing dny
of the school that caused it. It Is lino
to hiixi' n last day of school cause
Htieh u thing, nml especially In tho
Woods district, where the ladles am
noted for the good things they can
plepaie to eat. Thole weie some 85
or I'll people there to enjoy the din
ner. It wun a surprise! 7), The dill
lien nil rnme to school, as smiling
ami sweet an ever, but they did lint
seem tn carry their dinner buckets at
c.'iiofully an usual, for some carried
lliein upside down, some didn't can:
turn' many times they dropped them,
ami some didn't bring nny nt all, In
dliniiug Hint they expected soinetlila
In happen. Wouldn't (bey hnve bein
sill prised If nobody would hnve came'.'
A .ogiiim was given In (he evening
(t n lull house Hint seemed to enjjy
It. D. M. K.
Kiitertaliied.
Mrs. Sherman II. Illbbaril, of Kan
sas City, entertained (he "Kudgo
Crowd," nt the home of her parent,
Mr, and Mrs. C. D. Zonk, nf this city,
for dinner nml tt slumber party, on
Tuesday evening of this week, in hon
or of Miss Mny llotkln n Mny bride.
Dinner was served In live courses and
covers were laid for seven. Tlie tablo
was beautifully decorated with bride'.t
roses nnd lilies of the valley. Those,
piesent were Mny llotkln, Inn llotkin,
X.innn llrugg, Mrs. J. J. Itayhill, Mr.
and Mrs. Zoolc ami the hostess.
Tu Slop Liquor Shipments.
Prosecuting Attorney Tlbbels llle I
at thin term of our circuit court, tho
necessary papers, asking for an In
junction tn restrain the Adams K
press Company and tho C, II, & Q.
railroad from shipping liquor into
Holt county, the county being under
the local option statutes. The court
granted a temporary restraining or
der against the Adams Express Com
pany. The case against the railroad
hail not been heard by tho court, when
we closed our forms.
"Calla" (C. A.) Gregory, of
Forbes, had business In Oregon, Wed
nesday of this week.
