VOL. XX NO. 56.
BARRE, VERMONT, FRIDAY, MAY 19, 1916.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
GERMANS HURL
FRESH TROOPS
INTO THE FRAY
Two Divisions Recently Ar
rived at the Verdun Front
Sent Against French in an
Effort to Regain Ground
Lost During the Preced
ing Day, but Attacks in
the Main Failed
ROOSEVELT
CARRIES ATTACK
TO FORD'S HOME
Made Vigorous Address at Detroit in
Behalf of Preparedness and Made
Direct Reference to Ford's .
Attitude.
Detroit, Mich., May 9. Colonel The
odore Roosevelt, in an address here to
day, reiterated his opposition "to all
kinds of hyphenated Americanism," ad
vocated universal military service baaed
on universal training, and declared that
we must abolish "pork-barrel" methods
in our national defense, stop talking and
get down to the actual business of thor
ough preparedness if we are "to make
this nation as strong as are its convic
tion in reference to right and wrong."
Tho address was delivered at a mass
meeting in the Detroit opera house.
Colonel Roosevelt pretaced his speech
by announcing that he had "come her
to Michigan because ia the primary for
the selection of delegates to the Koputv
lican national convention, Mr. Ford was
i : i f.ii :
. n r l icwriuius, aim luiiuwuig uii iua hwij
bttOrtS 10 tfetaKe Small T Oft here, he showed a. marked popular
' 01 TT'il strength in Nebraska and Pennsylvania
On Northeast blOpe 01 Hill The effect of this showing has been im-
POST ON HILL 287
WAS THE NET GAIN
Other forces have pushed in the direction
of Mouastlr, toward Poroj.
"The Greeks have taken prisoner Bui
garians dresaed as Germans."
NEW THEORY OF
CYMRIC LOSS
- V .
Berlin Hears That Survivors
Claim It Was Due to a
Boiler Explosion
BRITISH DECLARED
IT WAS TORPEDO
Officers of Ship Had De
clared They Saw the
Submarine : -
304
Were Repulsed, Ac-
I mediately visible upon many of the poli
ticians within and without Congress."
, . . . . . . . ... .
j. , ,i . t- i r f i "e, ttirougu our representatives at
COraing LO Ul r I exn.U VI- Washinton sai(1 Colonel Roosevelt,
C 1 Of o4-iTviftvif WViinVi 've absolutely refused in the smallest
nciai oiaiement, vvnita d(.gree to prcpare during th(8C twenty.
Tolla rvf VW Vihlpnt twomonlhsof wwldcUcl8m-"eh8V
i ens oi v ery v loieni, refused t0 lcarn the gmale8t ,,art of the
Tterhririty lesson being written on the scroll of tor-
ri&niin, ment in Europe. We have fatuously re
fused to take the smallest step, either
do our jjnty to ourselves or to do our
duty to others. We have endeavored to
Paris, May 19. Violent fighting on a deceive ourselves by announcing that in
large scale was resumed on the Verdun this policy of supine inaction and of fail
front last night. Two fresh divisions of ure fa perform- duty, we are actuated by
German troops attacked French positions the loftiest motives. I doubt whether
at Avooourt wood and on Hill 304, west we jisve reaiy deceived ourselves, and
of the Meuse. The war office announces most certainly we have not deceived
that the attacks in the main were unsuc- others. There is not a nation in the I
cessful, althmigh the Germans obtained wori which believes that our course of
a footing in a small post; south of Hilllgonjuut has been dictated by anything
287 Which lies east ot Avocourt woou. gave timidity, unworthy shrinking from
The Germans attempted to recapture effort and responsibility, and cold and
the small fort on the northeast slope of seiniih iove of money making and of soft
Hill 3U4 which tne rrencn troops wok. cae.
Berlin, via wireless. May 19. Amster
dam dispatches to the Overseas news
agency state that survivors of the Brit
ish steamship Cymric, which was sunk
on May 9, stated on their arrival at Liv
erpool that the sinking of the vessel was
due to the explosion of her boilers. .
Tho accounts from British sources, as
well as dispatches to the state depart
ment from the American consul, said the
Cymric was torpedoed. The officers of
the Cymric said a submarine was seen at
the time of the attack.
REBEKAH ASSEMBLY HELD.
Annual Session at Burlington Reception
, Yesterday Afternoon,
' Burlington, May 19. The annual sea
sion of the Rcbekah assembly in connec
tion with the Odd Fellows convention
was held here to-day.
Among those in tho receiving line
And About German Plans llLZ" lnd w?!1 tUn$
KNEW ABOUT
IRISH PLOT!
for Aiding Rebels, Bir
jcell Admits.
A SECRETARY FOR
members of the Antonio and Beatrice Re
bekah lodges on the roof garden of the
Hotel Vermont in honor of the asscm
bly officers and visiting members were
Mrs. Angie K. Endress of Bennington
president of the assembly; Mrs. Ernogene
wick, vice-president; Mrs. Emma Kaiid,
warden; Miss Emma' Gates.-secretary of
IKJliLAJND UN STAND 1 assembly; Mrs. Eva Hazen, treasur
er; wrs. Clara Peterson, marshal; Airs.
Emma Col burn, conductor; Mrs. Clara.
Wallace, outer guardian; Miss Gertrude
.lOU'A inrtnX mm f,1,rt n . A f - .i At,. lw.I It
Day lie Uld iOl VVlSn 10 JXQ- Caldwell, cihaplaui; and six past pres
CANADIANS EAGER TO FIGHT.
vn tilie proceeding day, but the efforts
failed. Infantry righting was connnea
for the. most, part to the sector west of
the Meuse river. East of the river and
in the woevre district tne armier y waa
"In any serious crisis there are always
men who try to carry water on both
shoulders. These men try to escape the
lwrd necessity of choice beween tw
necessarily opposite alternatives, by try
some compromise.
A- !l -.4... J. ...!. J . 1
active. ine oiuciai smu-iiimi. ij t,un ,., ork nn
the troops employed by the Germans had I actual practice, this compromise usually
recently arrived at the Verdun front. proves to combine with exquisite nicety
Sub-Lieutenant Navarre, one of tne aj tbe defects and none of the advan
best, known French aviators, who recent- tairea of both courses. It is true that in
ly engaged in a tight with five German lordinary political matters compromise is
i i i . . i l. : i.-ii, .. . I . . 1 , .... .
aeroplanes, oncHig-iiw uo u hib icu m -i essential. It is true tuat in orainary
chine in an aerial combat at Dolante, in times it is essential. But there come
tho Argonne, yesterday.
129 FRENCHMEN
TAKEN BY GERMANS
When They Captured Trenches on Both
, Sides of the Haucourt-Esnes High
Road on Verdun Front.
great crises when compromise is either
impossible or fatal. : This is one of those
crises. There is no use in saying mat
we will fit ourselves to defend ourselves
a little, but not much. Such a position
is equivalent to announcing that, if
necessary, we shall hit, but that we shall
only hit soft. The only right principle
is to prepare thoroughly or not at all
The only right principle is to avoid nit
ting if it is possible to do so, but never
Berlin, via London, May 19. French under any circumstances to hit soft. To
trenches on both Bides ot the Haucourt- go to war a lime, out nui mum, i
Esnes high road on the Verdun front one absolutely certain way to ensure
i.-t nf tUo ha vi Wn caotnred bv disaster. To prepare a little but not
Ihft German, the war office announced much, stands on a par with a city devel
lo-dnv. Kine French officers and 120 oping a fire department which, after a
men were taken prisoners. The announce- fire occurs, can put it out a little, but not
ment says that French captured positions much.
extend to the neighborhood of the south- Colonel Roosevelt declared that the
(irti mmpr fit Tlnr-L-'a wood. . I Wilson administration "has taken no
. I step for preparedness, and has done noth
ATTCTT?TA1MQ PAPTITRF. efficient to sustain our national
AU&lillAINO KjAL I UiVtt right Bccau8ei he gajj, the administra-
rnT5TARF,T T.A TOWN tion had at intervals, "ventured feebly
Are Continuing to Advance, Says Austria
Statement, Despite Efforts of Italians
' to Deliver Vigorous Counter-Strokes.
Berlin, via wireless, May 19. The Aus
trian troops are continuing to advance
at points on the Italian front although
the Italians are undertaking vigorous
counter-strokes, says yesterday's Vien
na statement. The Austrians crossed the
Luan valle and captured Costabella.
peak
tion," and ultra-pacifists and their fol
lowers have refused it any w'hole-hearted
support. They object, Colonel Booeevelt
addded. "even to make-believe prepared
ness; tliev insist on even more thorough
going helplessness than Unit which we
had so amply provided at Washington
TALK OF THE TOWN
ADVANCE FIVE MILES
AGAINST ITALIANS;
TAKE 7,300 MEN
Austrian Offensive Said By Berlin To Be
Making Progress Each Day in Spite
of Great Difficulties.
A. C. Templcton of Randolph was a
business visitor in the city to-day.
D. D. Adams of Marshrield was a bus
iness visitor in the city to-day.
Jesse Gardiner of Plaintield was a bus
iness visitor in the city yesterday.
Mr. and Mrs. Walter Simpnds and fam
ily of Wllliamstown were visitors in the
city to-day.
Painters and decorators are at work re
finishing the interior of Dr. F. M Lj tide's
office in the Currier block.
That the fame of Barre gTsnite i rap
idly spreading into hitherto unvisited
corners of the world was evidenced one
Berlin, via London, May 19. The Aus
trian offensive to the south and south
east of Rovertois making progress daily, day this week when George E. Bond, a
The Austrian front already has advanced lpot square granite manufacturer, re-
five miles in some puu-es. These gainslceived an order tor a sunianiiai memo
were made in the face of great difhcul- rial that is to be. erected in Honolulu.
tic. The mountains are till covered Mr. and Mrs. Walter X. Grearson re-
with snow. turned to-day to Vergenne. where Mr
The positions captured have been in Grearson has recently been appointed as
the hands of the Italians for months and distant superintendent of the Mate in-
include oints to which the Italians at- dustrial school. Mr. and Mrs. Grearvon
t ached the greatest strategic importance, have been visiting relatives in this city
I lie raptures of men and wsr materials I tor two weeks.
have been increasing dailv. The number! Members of the Winnoski Valley A
of prisoners now exceed 7-1i0. The Aus-1 sociation of School Superintendents were
trians also have taken 31 cannon and 3ojin the city to-day inspecting the local
Enlistments Thus Far in 1916 Surpass
Any Similar Period.
Ottawa, Ont.. Mar 19. -The C&nadia
Parliament ended its session yesterday
afternoon. There is some comment on
the fact that the governor-general, the
Duke of Connaught, did not officiate, but
left the closing ceremonies to his deputy
Sir Charles Fitzpatrick,- chief justice of
Canada. Assent was given to the leg is
la tion which ha s been enact ed by t he
two Houses of Parliament since the ses
sion opened last January.
The outstanding features of the ses
sion have been the destruction bv fire of
the Parliament building; a vote of $23
000,000 to tide the new trans-continenta
railwavs, the Canadian Northern and the
Grand Trunk Pacific, over present finan
cial difficulties; the appropriation of
$2o,000,0K) for Canadian war operations
during the present year and the introduc
tion of the question of French language
in Canadian schools into the federal
house when it had been confined to pro
vincial legislature heretofore.
The speecJi from the throne stated that
nearly 170,000 Canadian troops have gone
over seas and that more than 140,000 are
undergoing training in Canada. To sup
ply needed reinforcements men have of
fered themselves in even fiTeater-immbers
during the first four months of this year
than in any similar period during the
war. , ,
It is understood that Parliament may
be called to meet again carlv in the
autumn to deal witih the report of a
commission which will seek a solution
of the Canadian railway problem.
DEPRIVED OF LICENSE.
in
Because He is Justice of the Peace
Swanton.'
Swanton, May 19. The liquor license
at Grand Avenue hotel held by t adman
S. Gates has been revoked, it having been
brought to ttie attention of the license
commissioners that Mr. Gates ia a justice
of the peace. Merrill A. Hungerford. proi-
prietor of the hotel, is not a naturalized
citizen of the United States, which was
the reason Mr. Gates applied for a li
cense forvthe hotel. Mr. Gates has re
signed his commission as justice of the
poaee, but it is not known yet what pro
cedure the license commissioners will
follow in the matter.
machine guns.
ALLIES MOVE TO SAL0NIKI.
Beginning of an Offensive Indicated by
French Statement.
schools. Thvv were the guests of Supt.
C. H. White and Supt. George H. Seager
of the Barre Town school while here.
Several Barre young ladies, including
Miss Freida nd Bcrtiir Hooker, Mis
Cleora Morse. Miss Ruhy Head and Miss
Glynora Gould, and Mis Theri-ia Mile
London, May 19. Indications that the of Graniteville are attending the festivi
allied fTcea at Saloniki are attempting
an advance are contained in the official
report of the French war office isued
last night on the operation of the army
of the East. It shows that the allied
troop are not only moving up the Var-
tie at Norwich university this week
D. A. Perrv Yesterday conducted an
auction sale for Horace Colburn of Brook
field, who wild his home farm. to k and
tools. The farm -js purchased by Irving
Abbott of Bronkfirld tenter for I!":
dsr. but slso are advancing toward Mon-lmm t broucht and one horse wild for
stir. The report reads: t. Gooj price were realized from the
.Army ot the rjst in ihe operations farmuig tool and household furniture.
of May 10 to 15. on both hanks of the
Vardar riter and et of Lake Poiran,
the situation ha undergone no important
modification. In the course of tb first
fortnight iu May there ha been no seri
ous action. The infantry of both sides
Jiave continued to organise themselves on
t' ground. Our artillery on several oc
caxon shel'l efvemy rtjearopments, or
at'j'lK'n and goiifjs of worker.
"ortt lk Iv.iraa our ad
41 f3rTs bae oTur-i'd IVvetj.
County Agent F. H. Abbott of the
Vahington County Farmer' association
spoke before an audicne of farmer
in the grange hall at Kt I alaia lat
evening. Hi talk included mainly an ex
planation of the purpose and idls of the
association and some practical points on
the preparation of the soil in rTrd to
fertiiting and the "Mlfin-" of cropv.
At tl -ln of hi U!k. nearly two
hour were taken up in general diTision '
and the answeritcz of question.
TALK OF THE TOWN
Frank W. Jackson of Barre was elected
grand secretary and Alexander Duncan
Barre, grand marshal at the grand
odee Odd Fellows convention in Bur
lington yesterday.
Wallace Uatchelder and Nelson Welch
Plaintield arrived in the city this
morning to attend the funeral of their
aunt. Miss Harriet N. Reed, whioh was
held this afternoon.
The house and a considerable piece of
land at the corner of Washington and
Highland avenue are to be sold at pub
lic auction June 7, according to a notice
posted by W. E. Worthley, administrator
f the estate o Panic! worthier. In-
til her death last winter, the house waa
occuiipied for many years by Mrs. Mar
ia Emerv.
Luigi Brovalli of Batchelder street
left the city last evening for New York,
wiience he is to sail for hi former home
in Italy, there to join ins wife and chil
dren, who preceded him a year ago He
was accompanied by G. Simonetti, who
returns to Italy to join his family, after
a long sojourn in the Barre granite dis
trict. Barre granite is to be used throughout
in the building of the Ida Hancock Rosa
memorial in Los Angele. Cal., according
to specifications received here this week.
G. Allan Hancock, millionaire owner of
the famous Rancho Ia Brea in Califor
nia, is the donor of the memorial, which
is to I cut at the plant of Novelli 4
li-ajrni. Barre manuufacturers will be
nterested to know that the contract for
MISS JOHNSON WINS
$3,625 FROM RECTOR
Rev. C. C. Wilson Will Ask for New Trial
of Breach of Promise Suit on Ground
That Verdict Was Against the
Weight of Evidence and
Boston, May 19. A verdict for $3,625
damages was awarded to Miss Laura L.
Johnson last night by tho jury which had
been deliberating for eight hours on the
evidence introduced in the federal court
in the breach of promise suit which she
brought against Rev, Charles C. Wilson
for $20,000.
An appeal will be entered by counsel
for the clergyman to have the verdict set
aside and a new trial held in the same
court on the ground that the verdict is
against the evidence, the weight of evi
dence and the law. The trial lasted just
a week.
Miss Johnson wai not in court when
the verdict waa returned, remaining with
her father and mother in the offices of
Ralph H. Willard, her eounsel. Mr. Wil
lard and Guy H, Hortop, associate coun
sel, received the verdic for her.
The rector was present, however, with
his counsel, Atty. Walter A. Dane. .He
was apparently very nervous when the
jurors walked into the ..court room. The
oiirt room see us was somewhat dramat
for many
have been in a
"Ia ' " r " , ::7r-st: V , "0M. ?r. moflin??1 ?"s "e m- ing Thomas, violinist, furnished the mu
..Kii.iK ,iM ,wi .,r aTT.nw .xarnan rrs-riupri mar. T.ne i . , . .... .
f tha u,rv Thm rnnm oi .limiv I . , , - ------ ,m0 ,or we exercises ana Airs. JvOWlll a.
lighted, and the defendant and the spec
tators were all sitting forward to hear
the verdict. The gentle tappingof Dep
uty Bancroft on the door of the clerk's
office to call Frank Mason to the court
added to the situation. It seemed like a
play, with the stage all set for the cli
max. , -.' .
The rector stood while the jury was
going through the formality of handing
vise Sir Matthew Na
than's Testimony
London May 19. Augustine. Birrell,
who resigned as chief secretary for Ire- j
land after the Sinn Fein revolt, appeared evening. The opening and closing cere
dents, Mrs. Mary Goodell, Mrs. Cornelia
Bond, Mrs. Stella Bailey, Mrs. Nora
Jackson, Mrs. Francis Stone and Mrs
Alice Laudrey.
The exemplification of the Rebekali de
gree was carried out by Antonio Re
bekah lodge, No. 11, and Beatrice Rebek
ah lodge, No. 60, of Burlington before a
large audience at the city hall in toe
to-day as a witness before the roval com
mission which is conducting an inquiry
into the rebellion. At the outset of the
monies were conducted bv Antoni lodge
under the leadership of Mrs. Lou Hatha
way, noble grand,' and the other exercises
-1 1. T) : . i! . . . . i l. i i i c -
of the rector' flock, who MattL" Nathan's statement and that he v" iv l- fn TV wige lea oy wra.
Itendance at the trial every j-S i "n s statement ana mat m j,,lli E. Ballon, noble grand. Mrs. Ohar
lienaance at nie,iriai fiery I a.a nnf. know Hint, thnre wpre mi adih-li... t. r.. . , "... . ,
n i,,i, i, fr. 7. ...... . . tt. van Dieinocrg, pianist, ana irv-
ST. ALBANS POSTMASTER.
William H. Finn Succeeds C. S. Forbes in
' Office. " '
St. Albans. May 19. William H. Finn,
whose nomination as nostmaster at St.
4 1. i: A. I - , 1 J-l .
u.e leruii-i, 10 deputy amrsnai t-awarua, Albans a Washington dispatch an
who, in turn, handed it to the clerk. Mr. noum.eti yesterday, has always been a
Wilson was visibly affected When the Democrat. Ho served the city as alder-
verdict was j-cad, although he made no ,. frnm wflP1i ,,.rna a,-
demonstration. There was a murmur of three years of the city government and
disappointment and disapproval among afterward was school commissioner sev-
ins parisnioners m tne seats directly ! ,,-.r u, t,,. . ;..ti,.. nf
k of him. I peace and ha long been a director of
government had advance information re-ni- .) i.- i. c , j
'girding the German plans for aidm? the Lal mloH, xhe officerg of .thfi KetvUlth
reoeis. I UCcsn,i.u. n .i ti. j rr.
were guests at the exercises and gave
brief addresses.
Mrs. F'inogene Buck of Randolph was
to-day elected president of the assembly.
Other officers are as follows: Vice-president,
Mrs. Emma Rand of Saxtons River;
secretary, Mrs. Emma Gates of Ludlow;
treasurer, Mrs. Eva Hazen of Windsor.
STATE CASES DEFERRED.
bac
tfo l,a r. ii.,..;.. . . 1 . .
.. " " ,s ..Miedon 1'oor.nouae association
adjournment ot court, reiernng his case
to his counsel. Mr. Vane stated that he
would within three days file a motion for
a new. trial, which would include a re
quest to have the verdict set aside. He
said he would base his motion on the
evidence and on the law as well.
While "Sir. Dane was talking to the
newspaper men the rector held an im
promptu reception, standing inside the
bar enclosure while hi parishioners n. c u..t... r vi-t.A n
ook hands ., .
the
the
He is a
member of St, Mary's church and the
Knights of Columbus.
The commission of Postmaster C. S.
Forbes expire some time next month
and Mr. Finn expects to take over the
office immediately upon the expiration of
that term.
MORE NEW BISHOPS.
Methodist Church.
Saratoga Springs, X. Y.. May 19. Dr.
Divorce Case Holds Them Up Till Next
Tuesday.
Witnesses for the petitioner had not all
been called this forenoon in the divorce
case of Marv L. Tierce vs. Jamea Pierce
of Warren, which is being heard in coun
ty court, and because of the time the
suit will take before it is completed the
state cases .will not be taken up until
next Tuesday forenoon. The jurors are
under instructions to report at that time
and at the conclusion of the case will
probably be finally discharged for the
term.
A replevin case was filed yesterday
afternoon with the clerk of the court,
E. L. Smith against C. H. Barton and
H. J. Slayton, an action to recover prop-
PAVING MEN
LEAVE WORK
Dissatisfied with the Wages
Paid and Claim Viola-
tion of Promise ljLtj
40 MEN ARE IDLE
ON MILLSTONE
y
N
Employers Say T Prom
ised One Do More
Than at Vjcord
passed along outside and s
with him. They all expressed surprise
and sorrow at the verdict, but assured
him of their loyalty to him. .Mhtt 8. Hughes of Pasadena, "Cal., was erty attached by the deputy sheriff.
Miss Johnson was not to reticent a elected bishop of the Methodist Episco
the rector. She was feeling in tine spir- pal church to-day on the 11th batlot. Ir.
its when she received the newspaper men Hughes is a brother of Bishop Edwin H.
in her attorney's offices, and answered a Hushes. Three more bishops now re-
vorrey-of tinestions smilingly and appar- main to be elected. l)r. Herbert Welch,
ently with pleasure. - president of the Ohio Wesleyan univer-
She declared that she had all the old aitv. and Dr. Thomas Nicholson of New
love for the rector until he
BURIAL AT PLAINFIELD CENTER.
Following Funeral of Miss Harriet Reed
-" This Afternoon.
The funeral of Miss Harriet Newell
took the Vork City, secretary of the church board Reed, whose death occurred at her
witness stand Wednesday and denied the of education, havintr been chosen lat home. 7 French street. Wednesday fore-
things she said be knew and still knows night. noon after a long illness, was held 'at the
are true. She said she was truly sorry home of Mr. and Mrs. Char es K.
for him during his cross examination by rtatf nirwTiT. nmrwi Reed this afternoon at 1 o'clock. Rev.
Atty. W illard. B. J. Lehigh, pastor of the First Baptist
In making bis charge to the jury Judge r,- H m Smith nt r.vnAnnvm Fleeted church, was the officiating clergyman and
Morton rehearsed the formal status of I ... the bearers were six nephews of the de-
the ease, and joined with the jury in re- rresmeni. ceased, Wallace Bartlett of Plainfield.
gretting that the affairs of these young Burlington, May 19. At the closing Benjamin Batchelder, Nelson AVelch of
people had been brought into publicity, se-jsion of the Vermont Dental assoeia- Pta infield, Dan A. Perry, Q. H. Perry and
.Nevertheless he warned the jury judg- tion to-day Dr. H. SI. Smith of Lyndon
ment must be given without regard to ville was elected president. , Dr. ' G. E.
consequences. Partridge of Burlington and Dr. W. R.
He followed precisely Mr. Stiekney's Pond of Rutland vice-presidents, Dr.
statement that the matter wa that of Philip E. Mellen of Mjddlebury secretary,
contract nroken. He summed up Mies Dr. W . H. Munsill of W ell River treas-
lohnson's direct statement in three sen-hirer, and Dr. F'red Newell of Brattleboro
s, fltember t)f the executive committee.
('. W. Perry. There were several fine
floral tributes. The body was taken to
Plainfield Center for burial.
TALK OF THE TOWN
fence.
He said that where an implied engage
ment is all there is, both not one
parties must understand and agree that
they are to marry. Whether there was
ny express agrement was the crucial
uestion.
MONTPELIER
Replying to the request of H. J. Con-
Arrangements were completed to-day
for a meeting of all the Batre creditors
of the Vermont & Chicago Granite Co., of
which Edward F. MacLane of Chicago,
III., was the promoter. The meeting is
to be held in the rooms of the Granite
iYNCH'S FATE
STILL UNKNOWN
American Citizen Was to Have Been Shot
in Dublin After Conviction for Com
plicity in Irish Rebellion.
ant, representing tne local board ot trarit. Manufacturers association Monu.iy even
as to whether special rates would be fixed ing. The Vermont 4 Chicago company
on the New England railroads for the was declared insolvent a few months ago.
New England fruit show to be held in I after an unusual series of operations, it
Montpeher in November, the passenger is said, in the ermont granite field,
association of Boston has assured Mr. More than )00 members of the Barre
Conant that a two-cent rate will be ob- Granite .Manufacturers' association were
tainable both way on every road except present in the association hall last even
the Bangor &. Aroostook. ing for the fifth meeting of the ediiea-
Misa Renlah Grant is takina a hnVf v. tional Beries inaugurated in April. The
cation from her duties in the First. X. speaker was William D. MacDonald of
Washington, 1). C, May 19. The fate tional bank and has gone to Burlinsrton. East Barre. a vice president of the saso-
of Jeremiah G. Lynch, an American eiti
zen who was tp have been shot at dav
break in Dublin, was unknown to-day.
He was convicted of complicity in the
Irish rebellion. President Wilson made
an lltli hour plea for a stay of execution
until the case could be investigated, but
no word had eomo to-day as to whether
the request arrived in time or had been
granted.
Information telegraphed here last night
to Senator O'Gorman by friends of Lvnch
in New York was to the effect that he
had been sentenced to death and would
be shot at midnight, New York time.
Secretary Lansing, at the direction of
president, at 9 o'clock, last night cabled
Ambassador Page to make representa
tions in behalf of Lynch in order to save
hi life pending an invest i;ratinn of the
facts in his case by the American government.
President Wilson was at a theatre
when Senator O'Gorman called at the
White House. Secretary Tumulty hur
ried to the theatre ami laid the facts be
fore the president. ( able dispatches yes
terday had told of Lynch' conviction,
but did not give tc sentence.
Arthur C. Goodrich, agent for the Na
tional Life Insurance Co. at Baltimore,
Mil., and Mrs. Goodrich, who were in the
city to attend the Cutler-Walker wedding
W ednesday evening, returned tin morn
ing to their home. Misses Katherine Kes
singer and E. Hockmeyer returned yes
terday afternoon to Lowell, Mass., having
been the guests during the week of Mr.
and Mrs. C. E. Moulton.
About 30 couples attended the annual
dance of the Junior Bankers' association
held last evening in the city hall audi
torium, music being furnished by Car
roll's orchestra.
Mrs. Alta Carentcr left thi forenoon
for Boston, where he will make an in
definite vrsit with relative,
ciation and a member of the World Gran
ite Co., who addressed the gathering on
"Fundamental of Estimating." Mr. .Mac
Donald's corttribution to the series was
the product, of much research and fore
thought. Afterward P. F. McLaughlin of
Boston, publisher of the Monument Re
tailer, told of some of the benefits that
are accruing feom the advertising cam
paign recently launched by the manu
facturers and quarriers. A substantial
luncheon was served at the close of the
meeting.
H. C. Hefner of Cleveland. O., who is
manager of the 11th annual convention of
the National Retail Monument Dealers'
association, which is to be held in Cleve
land Aug. 15-19. is to visit Barre within
a few week, according to eommunica
Forty paving cutters on Millstone hill,
comprising practically every member of
that union in the Barre granite district,
were idle to-day, as the result of differ
ences between the employers and em
ployes. Statements made by representa
tives of the paving cutters' union, which
is an organization separate from that of
the granite cutters, are at variance with
the statements made by those whorhave
been employing pavintr cutters on the
hill. Differences between the two factor.
having been mooted for some time nrior
to May 1, an adjustment was reached in
the first week of the month and the men
returned to work on the morning of May
8
A disagreement over the price to be
paid per thousand for paving blocks is
said to have precipitated both strikes..
The paving cutters' declare that the em-
loyers refused to abide by the agree-
ment reached early in May and at a
meeting of the union members last night
it was decided not to work to-dav. The
following statement of the cutters' case
as issued:
A week ago a dispute between the
paving cutters and their employers was
settled by a compromise agreement and
already the dispute has been revived be
cause the representative of the employers
declines to pay the price fixed by the
agreement just signed. The reason given
is that another branch of the paving cut
ters' union has made a slightly different)
agreement from what he understood.
Last night the paving cutters met and
discussed the position taken by the rep
resentative of the employers. The de
cision arrived at was that all paving cut
ters on the hill should cease work until
the new problem could be solved."
Interviewed to-day, one who is closely
identified with pavinz euttins interests
on Millstone hill stated that the poW in
contention concerned a comparison of
wages paid in Barre and in Concord. Ac
cording to him, when the Barre cutter
asked for an increase they cited Concord
cutters as receiving 524 per thousand.
Whereupon, the employers promised to
pay $25 per thousand. After work wa
resumed May 8, it was stated, members
of the cutters' committee came to the
employers' representative and said they
had been xin error m quoting the Concord
bill as providing for $24. The Concord
price was $22.50, Whereupon, the em
ployers, it is said, decided to- do better
than etand by their original agreement,
that of paying $1 per thousand more
than Concord by paying $24, instead of
$2.3.50. Alleged dissatisfaction; it is said,
followed the announcement of the em
ployers. In the stand they have taken, the em
ployers claim they are entirely within
their rights. They point to the intense
competition in the New Englsnd paving
block market and cite, locally, the fact
that the freight rate from Millstone hill
to Barre and thence to tho consignee
makes any additional increase prohibitive.
HELD MEETING IN BARRE.
..... ..... ......... .. ,m T . ' ! ,11 Mill I1H (1
Gilntan S. Bliss, administrf (or of the tion received by Barre granite men re
LOCATED IN SPRINGFIELD, MASS.
cutting and erecting the memorial came 'ci,4rM y
lo itarre inrougn inn omcrs m .iin
Stephens, formerly of the Stephen 1 Ger
rard Co. in this citv. Mr. Mephens is at
Uie head of the Rosedal Granite Co. in
Los Angelt.
H. Hoyt of St. Johnsbury
Went Away a Week Ajo.
St. Johnshurv. May 19. Word wa re
ceived from Springfield, Ms.. last night
that Charles W. H. Hoyt. the civil en-
Miaa Katherine R. Mthewn enter- Igineer. mi-wing from hi home since last
tained a company of fourteen young j Saturday, had Win located by track men
women at her home on Ayrr street last! in Springfield. Officer there wired that
evening, the anair taking tne nature ot lloyt would return, rears tor hi health
linen and otnna shower in honor of the and mental condition are felt bv hi mile
hostes' forthcoming marriage. Theiand mother, because the Springfield u
shower feature of the party came a aithoriticft asked that some one he sure
surprise to Mis Mathe.n. who had ( and meet him at the train. It i thought
p'aaned only to entertain a circle of her j that he walked practically all the way to
friend, tiuest brought many article Springfield.
lor the prospective bride. An impromp- j
ta musical program wa foli.m.-d by a ('. O. AeriU. F. W. .Iakn and
spring Iiio'heon. Dutch tulip and aj ALx. Ilunun have rturne-l to th city
win imill in miniature were among the 'from lliirlirgtotn where they kae bcn j
attractive feature of th decorative tt-niin2 the annual eonvratina of Oil
cW. Fellow S.
estate of Silas B. Sibley, ha sold to Wil
liam H. (lossey and wife the house and
lot at 54 F'ast Liberty street, the con
sideration not being made public. A deed
recording the sale was filed, in the city
clerk's office to-day.
Thomas Short, for nearly 17 years the
proprietor of a quick lunch establishment
on Main street, yesterday sold his bu
ine to Rov Harris of Middlesex, the
new owner taking immediate possession.
Mr. Short ia not decided as to what bus
iness he will pursue in the future, al
though he expects to remain in Montpe
licr for the present.
Mr. Frank H. Tracy went yesterday
afternoon to Highgate Springs to pass
the week end at their summer eoitase.
Mr. C. W . I.itch is recovering at Heat-
on hospital from an nines of several
K-li and w ill be able to return to her
home. 2 Cliff street, in a few day.
William Lee of Wsterbunr arrived in
the city to day for a several davs' vi-it
with relatives.
John Avery, legislative reference li
brarian, left this forenoon for Ticonder
oga. X. Y.. where he expect to make a
weks visit with relatives.
Mis Marion Waton went thi fore-
noon t W a'etbury to oomj.lcte erransre.
ment :w the appearance in th town
On evening of the Y. L C. A
S,:rtr!-.
cently. Granite manufacturer and quar
riers of the Barre district have made lib
eral reservation of exhibition space on
the convention floor and the visit of Mr.
Hefner will probably be made the occa
sion for a conference with local exhibit-,
or. A number of Barre granite men are
so arranging their business as to have a
little leisure along in the middle dava of
August and it will not be surprising if
the attendance at the convention from
this vicinity is large.
The Altrurian gathered at the home
of Mrs. Raymond Waterman of Camp
street on Thursday afternoon for a fare
well social in honor of Mr. Joseph Hovt.
who. w ith her family. i soon to bvive the
city for their new home near Springfield.
Thi wa a complete surprise to Mr.
Iioyi, wno wa invuea to me fiou-e on
other pretene and found 'upon arriving
there the Altrurian awaiting her. A
pleasant social time wa enjoyed bv all.
Mis Ada Sherburne gave a history of
the formation and work of the rluh. in
which Mr. Hoyt ha been a faithful
worker for 15 year. S!ie also presented
ber a Wallace Nutting picture a a slight
token of the r-tc-m in which she i held
by the club members. A readin? was
gtn by Mr. r.ihon and setcral musi
cal vele.tion were rendered on a ictnda.
Twelfth Annual Meeting ' of Episcopal
Missionary Auxiliary.
The 12th annual meeting of the Mont
pclier district of the woman's auxiliary
to the board of missions was held in the
Church of the Good Shepherd to-day.
The services began this morning at
10:15 with holy communion, which was
followed bv the report of the district
secretary, Mrs. J. W. Vaughan; reports
from parish branches by their secretaries,
who were Mrs. II. Whitney from North-
field. Mrs. S. N. Parker from the Barro
branch, Mrs. Egg from the Montpelier
branch and Mrs. Riley from Webeter
villo. Report from the junior auxiliaries
were given bv Mrs. Whitney for the
Northrield society. Miss Eleanor Lowo
from Montpelier and Miss Muriel Beattie
of the local branch. A selection by the
choir followed, after which Mrs. C. D.
Mather spoke on "Our United Offering
Missionaries." Mrs. E. M. Denny, dis
trict vice-president of the auxiliaries,
spoke for a few moments on the work of
the society and asked the officers of the
local branches to keep more in touch with
the district officers and thereby aid them
in their work. Mrs. Denny called on Rev.
F. U. Leach of Montpelier for a few re
mark before the adjournment for lunch,
which occurred at 12:30.
At I :.K in the afternoon services were
reopened with a prayer, after which earns
the report of the district secretary, the
opening of the question box by Rev. W.
.1. M. Beattie and Rev. T. S. Ockford.
The answer were referred to various
speakers. Music and two addressea br
Rev. F. Barnby Teach of the Montpelier
church and Miss C. R. Wheeler, president
of the auxiliary, followed.
.At o'clock will come an addresa bv
Bishop G. Y. Bliss, after which there will
be offering and adjournment. About .11
member of the auxiliary were present
at the morning service, including Rev.
F. B. Leach of Montpelier. Rev. T. S.
Orkford of Northrield and ladie from the
different towns where the auxiliaries ara
active.
girk jaftr whi. h refreshment of salads, sand
k-'e, take and cocoa were eerved.
Mr. Horace Hki!I of Gloucester.
Ma., and Mr. and Mr. George Hall of
Dorchester. Mas., are the guest for a
few day of Mr. and Mr. Virgd E. Ayer
of Avers street.
Clerks' Notice.
There w ill be a Hcrk" meet ine Friday,
May 19, at 7 p. m. Dont forget to ref
isfT.
