i i a tl,.q WofM no c..wftr a i hrivintf and Prosoerous City
.OiUmUUS IS Oil UlC lYlcip, iliut iu uiaj, ' o , -
Vol.V.
Coluinbuv Luna County. New Mexico, May 19, 1916.
No. 48
luiLDlNC TUB DEMING-
COMJiMHUS KUM
Wnrk wiiH stnrtcd Tuesday morn-
ng on the hlhwny from Deming to
Solumbus with n force big enough
o keep the machinery going t full
fnpaclty. ine wow was mun mi
U the end of the state road 12
Mies Houth of DemlnB. and is bo
g built three charters of a mile
fast, one mile south, and thence
Jnt in the old crude.
I A Hteel bridge will be built
Ever me arroya in me vit .......
. .,vrn.,,i 9 nnn
will cosi siiiiiuiiuiiK v-
fnil culverts will ge put in cvery-
Shero it is thought necessary on i
n,c unv to Columbus, nut niuei
repair is necessary on the grade
From the top of the ridge this sido
K the en t- Cnlnmbus, and what
ft needed will be done at once. The
Pond commissioners think that with
the exception of the largo bridge in
the gap, the road can be completed
Within sixty days.
h Chas. Heath, the member of the
roud board from the end of tho
valley, went up to Doming Monday
to attend the regular meeting of the
Board. A statement of the secrc-
iry and treasurer of trio isonrci
hmvnil thnt 5518.000 of the $25,000
Available in the county this year
for road work had been expended.
rrif Hm S7000 remaining in the
ftoimnrv. SC500 was appropriated
ftrr buiidi'i" the Columbus road.
iSjuuu oi wnicn win "k un in
uilding the bridge across the ur-
ON TUB MAI' TO STAY"
LUCERO VISITS COLUMIIUS
In odcr to quiet the apprehen
sions of the
CHURCH LAWN PARTY
Young and old citizens are look'
ing forward with pleasure to the
PLANS ERECTION OF
EPISCOPAL CHURCH
JACK THOMAS
I CHIEF OF VOUCH
The Columbus (N. M.) Courier
is advertising to the country the
big business boom that
has experienced since v
It savs that "Columbus
thn mnn. and is there to stay.
That is bringing good out
nvll In true enterprising style.
great is the business, inai v,o.um- th(J ch,cf nt n
MIS 1IIHIS 11 UlIUClIll iu uinu miv rreHj
the Coluiibu? Cooler." Ib one 0f ho?Ma?ioN?nA?Za to tho border'and meet with the na- the way of a social evening, with worshipped in comfort and bro
constnn business activity ! ff'T0? 1 t i I "v population. He delivered an refreshments ond music. 1 therly love at the Methodist church,
Knnnluh. Amprirnn
the town i. t ....... l.. .1 ..I ; rumiiuiiis ui 111c ouutuum jum. ui bunii uuugi w ut wiu u mm uw, Uucrao
r".L ,", have gotten hold of some bud medi ..... .,, tUt nmn ,!, pi,. , , , i,m f t.hl
Is now on 5?" iVlKw-Ul V JUUt I to many alarming reports .re in cir- building fund of Trinity P. E. Mis- and ad,
Bishop Howdcn of the Episcopal
Now Mexico natl prom-
visit Columbus on May 31
administer the rites of bap-
confirmation on such as
of raise a rough house in general and v,QQn th(j Unjted gtnte(J and Mcx. Eplgcopai Mi88on arc n the com- arc prepared to receive these ordi-
So ono .of his m?" Si, . !m Ico, a number of the leading busi- mittce of arrangements, nnd they nances of the Episcopal church,
m- ?h i,1"1" ? ,, up . .. ?." J ncss men of Deming on last Fri- earnestly hope their many friends 1 Although the members of this
tho chief nt all. He was put under . wlrcJ t(j Sccrctnry of stnto An. wlll come to the jnwn pal.tyi which denomination have, through the
tonlo Lucero, asking him to come promises many pleasant things in' courtesy of tho Methodist church,
At first busintss had to be trans- cuicr w r cimn.nn nn Mm rn.
acted in tents and corrugated iron pnmmnn,intion f the oiiartermas-
address at a mass meeting of
Spanish-Americans, and Saturday,
in company with J. A. fllahoney,
hniise.q that could be dUickly built, . ..., ... i, ,,t uta ni,, ua
but better locations have been Emission was taken -d given ,0 jj n m W EII o ft" "ll aril' K I a no"
Itio restuu ranis nave nmi , ,Pe emn 0yed by I). .1. Ch"dborne . rnillmtlll(, ainnnini? on route
U i.v.'T UtQt th. last year, and is , man of J S'ffit 'ffi VL?!.
v-niy ui. "- ; excellent ennract
surinl.v one fourth of the bread
and pies used. Orders are be
ing sent to Doming nnd El
Paso for bakery products all
the time, and it is not unusual
to go into a restaurant now
and bo turned away simply be
cause they have sold out. All
nouses In town are doing a big
business. The hotels nie
crowded at all times. There
are openings for many busi
ness houses yet that wnimi lie
a field of their own, and no
competition. Come to Colum
bus. If Villa is informed as to tho
above facts, he probai-iv .ef l i that
he isn't such a "dead "ne. uft-v
all. considering the town boom
or anil nauus. - nu Trrrnn,,n u,i, y, 0,i,i,.,fl nn
has thlrty-tbreo men on the force nMombly 'of nbout onc hun(ircd
now and we can depend upon then ,,,. navisfnsr them of the
lor al the protection mat 11. woum Rfntin nf tho nnlitlcal 1
be possible'for a force this size to P"P fJ jo will, th, request foru .olu
Mondav evening about seven ! here, ns the town Is irrowinir so ran-
thirty is the day nnd hour chosen, idly It seems only right that a aec-
Offlcers nnd men of the U. S
Army Rase are also cordially wel
corned.
Can You Solve It?
The following problem has
been handed into the Courier
THE FOLLY GIRLS
ir swrno. presmnri ri inurnm- ..... , ..i.i f v,tu mur.
..nrnm proposed that $5000 of . VIS
the -omaining $7000 be spent on n
jridire on tho roail between uem-
nv nmi Silver Citv. which wns vot-
fed down by the other members of
Ithe board, Mcsss. Kelly ami neain
WTS Sunnn vntll nirnillHt. the UD-
lr'- . . . ; .. . ...... inn.'iiiL'lni
propn-;on mr me ucming-iun.- ,f t(1!.iness ,, forrc.j lts0f
US rouu. . t'n tnv.-n nni! " lllA nns. IS 1HM
It will take some time to get
fronb- i'll the bridge in the
gap, but if the unexpected does not
doiiius raid, and he may regard
himself as a much abused, pcrse
cutfd individual.
While Columbus didn t want to
get on tho map at th u ;osl. nov ,
nince the worst is over, there is
ill ir to do but in inn e the best
lhappen, it will be under way Mirt
lly after the thirty day period nec-
lessary for the advertising for bids
such advertising to be placed at th'
Riext regulnr meeting of tho board
Kvhich will be the first Monday in
Line.
The road is probably used more
Blow than any road in the entire
ncss.
Whether one nccopts tho mvlta
tniitin rr not. it is "Come on to
Columbus, nnd grow up with the
country "Atlanta Constitution
WOULD PENSION
BORDER WIDOWS
Takine inspiration from
Graphic's account of the Villa raid,
detailing tho heroic conduct of Mrs.
Parka and other women in me
Itnte of New Mexico. Scvcrnl auto j stricken city, the Daughters of the
staccs make a regular run between 1 American Revolution have caused
Itfco twn towns, .mil some of tho to be introduced in congress a
"The Folly Girls," at tho Air- of the regiment,
dome, continue to grow in favor,, ,
anil this week they have been seen
in two different entertainments.
The Rcll Hop amused a "full
house" during three performances
nnd seemed to be the best playlet
thus far presented.
Six principals and me "pony
chorus" gnvo very smooth perform
ances, nnd the dancing nnd comedy
bits wore much applauded.
Tho women of the compnny are
all interesting and they work very
hard for what they accomplish.
The construction of the stage is
very faulty in thnt it will wear
out the voices, which are fresh
and young, if given nny chance
but instend of a sounding board do
sign the boxed in stage with flics
as if for interior smothers the
voices. The chorus in particular
cannot do itself justice,, it would
be ensier for the members if they
snntr under the skv. only, than in
the combination of stage roof and
nlrdomo. But what they miss in
song they make up in flexibility,
and the dainty little dancers nre
charming. One wishes they were
the 1 more often on the stage.
The farce comedy scored a num
ber of lnuirhs. Among the men
tho character part of the Hebrew
who thoroughly believed in "pass
im? the buck." stood out clearly.
One bit of comedy work over me
tween the two countries While In t"n- MJ pieau kick m nine,
Columbus Mr.. Lucero paid a vis- but promised to "pass it on" to
it to the camp or the state militia,
and met number of the officers
ond church shoud be founded here
ns speedily as possible.
The ladies of Columbus belong
ing to the Episcopal guild met at
the residence of Mrs. J S. An
derson to discuss ways and means
of getting together a nucleus for
this purpose.
This movement was set on foot
some time ago and the Bishop so
heartily approves tho plan thnt he
offers to give fifty dollars of his
own money if the citizens of Co-
The New Mexico State Militia
It ,1.... l...i.. ... U. f Ilnmin.r
It'UUIIIK iiumntni, i,oC.nu. p , ,,,,,
lare running trucks daily to coium-, r. hordcr bv the inwless acts of
Jbus with their products. Since tho tne citizens of Mexico. This move-
arrival of tho militia at Columbus , merit has already been well organ
car after car brings loads of peo
ple here to visit their relatives and
I friends who nre members of the
military organization.
The Deming firms nre supplying
ized and has tho indorsement of
many nifluential persons. It is
worthy of America.
It is tho constitutional duty of
tho state to protect its citizens in
return for their allegiance, there-
the local business men with bakery ! Jo me state snouiu ue
. . . , . to make provision for those who
products, sodas, etc., at a better 1 h(wo suffcrcd because of wanton
price than mo lii t'aso nrms nnu
with tho completion of the road
I they will be able to make a better
Irato and a larger profit. The valuo
of this highway will bo of more
! advantage to the county sent town and out of the United States, and
than to Columbus at the present I it is gratified that thero are still
1 time, nnd in nil probability will re-' Rood Americans who feel the same
main so for a long time to come. wnv- 11 ls ot 8.trn"'e th"1 "
unugnicrs 01 me nmeicau novum'
resolution calling on that body to love-portion enme near the border
made along line 01 coarseness ; uui mc muni
tion wns saved, cieveriy ormging
n well deserved round of applause
Mae Wheeler, Marie Barnctt, nnd
Mnude Vcrtrees divided the honors
very evenly; the regret wns that
there was it more for these cle
ver girls to do. The costumes were
becoming, though those of the
"broilers" were a trifle more
sketchy than there wns a neces
sity for. unless the management
wants his company to be classed as
neglect. ouricsque.
The Graphic has never been for! Tho consensus of opinion seems
war, rather for peace. We will to be that the company is mucn
have 1 oace if we must do battle to better than the vehicles chosen for
for rneir expiouaiion.
There is enough money in Co
lumbus nnd enough nrtistic taste
for irood nlavs and clever plny-
ers to draw big houses but this
town Is in 110 sense of the won1
"Tlnhn" the the soldiers in parti
cular being drnwn inrgely from me
The forms at Columbus have
lately been increasiMl by tho ad
dition of the New Mexlea State
Militia, which numbers about
l.O(X) men, umkitin a total
sUeijlJtli at Columbus of snilit
tliini,' around 3,000 men. The
militia is nlUuMln r a different
type from the regulars, and
it is very easy to (lis
tiiiKuish one from tho otl er It
is not unusual to meet a eolleue
professor, doctor, lawyer or
bunker wearnm a private's uni
form, and newspaper men are to
bo found in almost every com
pany. -DtmLusk, ot the Sliver
Citv Independent. Lientcnu .t
Ely, of the Deinimr Urnplnu, and
Ualph Lyml, of the .Deininw
llcadlilit uro'auionn thorn, alu.-t?
with many others
Men can be round who have
niwii up jobs paying as liinh as
jib per day to accept thu jou at
j1 r per month. They are very
enthusiastic, and so iar we have
the tirst uniwl to In ur from any
member of Hie Now Mexico
State Militia. It is an oruani-
zatiun that any citizen of nu
tate should leel proud of, and
we ausoiuieiy conuauici mu
statement that h.is oituu beun
made: "Tnere is no such Hum;
as I'atfiotisin in New Mexico.
our readers, and hereby auree , lumbus will raise a like sum.
U, publish any so.utioii that .nay m;srdrcZbirpearteo"f KnouT
be sent in. Here is the problem- the wcst endand here it is plan
It a man starts at 0 o clock in ned to build a parish house with
the morning, and walks at a urn- j n gmHu chapel which will eventual
form speed of it miles an hour, 1 ly become a part of n church
directly toward his shadow, un- building. It is the hope of all in
lil 0 p. m., what geometrical terested that the building can be
tigure will icpreseiit Ills joumuy, erected without running into debt
and what direction and how far very simple will bo the start, to
will lie be from the starting grow, God willing, with the growth
01 me congregation.
point?
attain it. The Graphic is for the
protection of Americnn citizens in
Harold Hell Wriuht, noted
iimtlim-,- now is cueum ned near
Noted War Correoiioncient
Mrs. Jean Cabell O'Neill, a
Invitation Unconicloutly Given by Lit
tle Muilc Teacher Liable to Cauie
the Choir to Hurry.
A music teacher, recontly arrived
from the United States, wns making
herself generally useful, while learn
ing the language in a mission school
at Conception, Chile. Among her
other duties, for which a knowledge
of Spanish wjs nut required, wns
playing the organ for the Spanish
choir. Her stock of words wns ex
tremely limited, but tho lind aironuv
learned that one can frequently
clian'P an English into n Sinni-I
word by tho additional of a linal a I
or "o." That the rule was not I
altogether safe, she learned to
the hysterical amusement or trie
choir. The music teacher had
lu-en helping the tenors through
with their pnrt in the anthem.
The word "tenor" is the same
in both -languages. Then she want
eft to have tho Ims?es try their part in
a similar way. Although she was
not quite sure about the word for
"bass." she tool; a chance on it and
added the final "o." Now it happen"
Hint the word in Spanish which is
pronounced like "laso," sounding a
as in base, means kisses.
What she therefore said was:
Now the kisses, please, onc at a
time." World Outlook.
The name will be the Trinitv
Episcopal Mission nnd five dollars
is on the way from Manhattan, New
York, from the famous Trinity
Parish in that city as a gift to
ward the new Trinity mission here.
Columbus Oil Stock
Soino eiijht or ten months uro
oil was discovered on the Ander
son place. The Columbs Oil Co,
now owns this land and n com
pany from California is point? to
Hive the field a thorough test,
spending some $75,000 or more,
they are now drilling on this
land and it will not he lonjr until
we will know if we have a big oil
field here near Columbus. The
Columbus Oil Co. will sell n few
thousand shares of its capital
stock at $1 .00 per share. If this
is an oil tield you know that a
few dollars put in stock now,
will soon make you u fortune.
Its a Rood chance to make good,
buy a few shares of stock now.
Columbus Oil Co., Inc. E. A.
Menus, Sec'y Adv.
Hon, with the blood of those who b, nnrt their taRtc in ,
suffered in other days coursing 1 8cni and drnmatic entertainment
itirmiirVi thair vnlflR. should note belne well developed. So the bet-
tb.- Mexican line, nbout thirty tho patriotic appeal, even when it ter tho play thn more in"en?,'' J)c
tr.i'e east of Columbus, and K m is sont forth from a little country bu nmUcnccs nro critical and np-
v 1 li there on u new book, to be , newspnper on the border. Deming prcclatlvo also.
'led "When a Man's a Man.. ' Graphic. I Just now the idea seems to be
noted newspaper correspondent,
lately from the war zone in
Europe, who has been in Colum
bus for the past month as the
lnmi, spout ive ol some of the
larpe eastern paper.-, has kindly
consented to write a story for
Courier occasionally. Watch for
her article next week. Mrs.
O'Neill is already numbered
amoni,' the boosters for Colum
bus, and is uivinir ns some very
valuable advertising.
Come in Any Time
and you will always find what you want in
our big line of Groceries and Merchandise
Sam Ravel
GROCERIES and
GENERAL MERCHANDISE
Columbus,
New- Mexico
We Apologize
In tho article published in last
o.lf'M Courier headed. The
Poreinner in n Foreign Land,'
we'feel that we owe an upolotry
to tho correspondents stationed
hero. No names wore mention
ed, and to clear them from any
suspicion we wish our readers to
undurstantt that K. A. Hunter, of
tim Tntttrnntionnl News Service,
nmi I. N. Ulossom. of the
Associated Press, were noithor
the authors of tho storlos
ferred to.
abroad that the Airdomc Is for
th nmimcment of the soldiers only,
1 but this is probably n mistake, nnd
In more careful selection of plays
wnnlti doubtless call out tho towns-
nnnnin niso. anu inev wnrK nuru
onnutrh In the dav taking caro of
tho sojourners to ba in need of
such amusement ns a good clean
play by good players, surely gives
A seven pound baby girl arrived
at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Ivan
Hobbs on Tuesday night of last
week.
Be The Fellow That Your Mother
Thinks You Are
Whije walking down a crowded city street the
other day,
I heard a little urchin to his comrade turn
and say,
"Say Jimmre!
as a clam
If I only was
t'inks I ant.
You know I'd be as happy
the feller that my muddcr
She t'inks I am wonder and knows her littel
lad
Would never mix with nothin' ugly, mean
or bad.
I often sit and t'ink how nice it would be,
Gee Whiz!
If a feller was a
he is."
feller dat his muddcr t'nks
So, my friends, be yours a life of toil or
undiluted joy,
You still can learn a lesson from the small
unlettered boy.
Don't try to be an eorthly saint, with eyes
fixed upon a star,
Just try and be the feller that your mother
thinks you are.
HAKNHKT LOUIS HOWLING.
Ogden, Utah.
