CARRIZOZO OUTLOOK
Published Weekly in the Interest of Carrizozo, and Lincoln County
VOL X. NO. 22
CARRIZOZO. LINCOLN COUNTY. NEW MEXICO. FRIDAY. MAY 19. M6
FMCE $1.50 PER YEAR
DISTRICT COURT
STILL IN SESSION
Four other charges of cattle lar
I cony against the above wern di
mined.
The Civil Docket About Clean- 8. T. Gray selling liquor to ml
ed up. Several Criminal violating Sunday low, allow
i.ri u s . Ing minora to loiter, etc
Disposed of
Torrea, e, al, larceny eattlo-plead QJg Qp
I mil nnAn 11n n
tUL ÍJlHUUL ítArí
BROWN MURDER CASE
SET FOR MONDAY
cnee con
tluued.
Stato oí New Mexico vs GusVVal
lack, gurglary guilty.
State of New Mexico va. F. II
Johnson, penning calves, etc ,
uolllcd,
To-Night's Commencement
Exccrciscs Will .Mark Clos
ing of the Most Successful
Year in Hiatory of School
TEACHERS FOR NEXT YEAR
WILL BE SELECTED TODAY
With the Commencement Excr
The caso of John T. Kimmons ctscs which toko place this ovcnlng
nitrlct Court for Lincoln County charged with the murder of Nopo- the week' activities cnnnectod with
resumed sessions Monday morning lean Urown near Corona last spring I tbo c()sin(S of gcll0))1 wlj 1)0 com.
with Judge Edward L. Medlar on I rftIlc0 County nd laeat for Monday
the bonch, relieving Judgo Mcchetn
who presidrd over tho first week of
tho term.
pleto. ThU will mark the cloning
hif tho most successful ycnr In (lie
history of the school. Careful
SCHOOL NOTES
The directors of Tinnlo District management and extreme oautinn
Since tho beginning of the term IBVe elected Mrs U. S Clark of In tho selection of faculty has heou
Hovorol coses have been disposed oIDexterna principal in u larco nieasnru rosiwnalblo fur
and below wo givo a brief rovlow of Miss Aim Sterrlt win return to lho d njvaU08ineMt w,, lloa
.. i- i tho Mctik district for the next term m, , , ,
uio ucuon iokihi in mo . oplinnl ucen niuuc. ine ijoaru oi uirec
cases up to press hour. At lilnluinUnn. Mm. Nnrrlii Hnr tors will meet ndoy to select the
In the onse of the State of New )er a tenchlnu a seven month's corps of teachers for next year
Mexico vs. Nieves Duran for Un- term. Mrs Huruer taught the number liavo failed to tnako appll
lawfully riding mid removing from term i nt Idlewildo this winter, ontion for ro election and ihei
range-not guilty. . , . . nrl ' ...om in .e pluces will l.ovo lo be filled nn
Id the caso of tho state ol New nuidoiui School, possibly uew teachsrs added to
Mexico vs. Nieves Duran for main Miss Anpeda Uaca who has been take care of the increased enroll
ing horse-cose continued. at the New Mexico Normal Un ver mcnt ond tho enlarged scope of th
State of Now Mexico vs. Rudolph "y "J " " ' "' rk In every department.
I oipiirtlinn tin hftrtn nilifnnnn In nftffltt I
Shullz unlawfully cutting hnee- term at Endnosa.l The afternoon of Tuesday was
nollied. Hacn Cunvnn. Idlowllde. and open house at the bcIiooI building,
State of New Mexico vs, Hobs Escondida Districts plan to build und Ihc display woik of the various
Connor, peace proceedings, dis- new scnooi nouses una luramsr. departments received much fuvo
Used. 1 1 hilb ,. B..c .... .... uC,Blu 0blo comment. On overy side were
State of New Mexico vs. Cecil Jes 1 T, ,t ,h of an)n "eye openers" as to what pupil
son Bmith, obtaining money under Canon, and east of Corona have can do with elliaieut supervision
false pretense no arrest. petitioned for o school diMrlct. Ine The manual training specimens on
Smtoof New Moxioo vs. J. J. enumeration snows ininy iuree Ul0 ,0dwork of ull department
Ayers and Harriett Mciveru, uu- OaeUro will eoon lei bIJs fur crualed mU8h fHVor,,ble "nmonl
try demurrer sustained. nntlir m for the machine of At two thirty a progronuno was
State of New Mexico vs. Joseph industrial subjects. rendered, composed lorgfcly of pu
J. Ayers, wife abHndonmont, nob Corona hopes to reemploy .Miss pllu whu have been neither absen
lied. Nlll ,Di"y who 'aught, such a nm mJ ,irouglll)llt , ,erin
State of New Mexico vs. Santiago
successful term this winter.
present Miss DiUy is at home in
uino months. All acniil.ted them
Lucero, assault with deadly weapon unnervllle. Pennsylvania selves with credit.
nollied. A sits has beon purchased for the Wednesday oveiiinc thirteen eicl
8tate of Now Mexico vs. Frank Polola school. The new building L, r(Uerg received certificates o
I promotion to high school, Thee
wore, Sullle Johnson, LOlmur Enker
Pink Roberts, Richard MoDoniel
ICrvn Adams, I'earl Kennedy
Fiunkio Gray. Gordon Pino Sam
He thou, Llnzu Hrunuin, Isabella
Tinuon.Floreuoa Lucy, Willie Rrlly
Gray ot al, selling liquor to minor will soon be started.
-pload guilty. anniTinMM I nPAl S
Stato of New Mexico vs. E. T.I nwi
niiA.n mi Rnv M. Pr. obtalnlno Androw uuncan ten weunesiiny
. . evening for his home in Murphys
money ununr ib.bu finm-ii u... . . . f mnnHi vllt Imrn
...i tt I . . .... .
iiuuau uuiu ucAk imui. with i r stcr. Mrs T ins. U. l.us
Stato of Now Moxico vs . Harvey ter.
Clom, wifo beating suspended j0,n T)a0 wn9 loro Thursday These promotion rnrtiflonlos were
sentence. from Jicarlllo. Mr Dale Informs nido awarded to Pcnrl IIvilo. Purota
State of Now vs. Chas. Sippcl, us that he has purchased a ranch gleveng ijBUr,, )ft(,in, Lawrence
burglary-no arrest. n ne Ancno couniry n v. . mv. Rwhntl ((Ild , onn ji0
who Imvo been doing part high
OSCURO
Last Wednesday afternoon be.
tweon the hours of 2:30 and 4
tho public was invited to view an
exhibit of the work of the children
f tho Oscuro school. The exhibit
was held at the school house and
consisted of drawini!, writing and
spelling lessons of I he lowor erodes
maps, compositions, paper cutting
and foldini: by the Intermediate
grades and manual ttsluing, domes
tie silence, maps, physiology charts
and pointing by the hlghor grades
and high school pupils. Especially
uterestlng features of the exhibit
were the maps of the different states
with samplns of llulr principal pro
ducts uliied to them, the maiiua
training work of lho boys, consist
ing of windlujscs, furria wheels out
minluture houses with cardboard
furniture, the colored maps and
paper folding work of the primary
children und the domestic uience
work of tho high school pup
consisting of aprons, dresses and
fancy work The physiology cliHrto
showed that this brunch of siudy
was being taught with thoroughness
and the younger pupils showed pro
mise and ability ai well as cateful
Instruction in their spelling an
arithmetic Donors. The patrons of
the school showed their Interes un
appreciation by turning out in good
Iv numbers, and all screed thai th
exhibit did great credit to hot!
teachers and pupltf, and that it was
the result of a verv Hiiccenclul yerr
work.
Joe Ashford Is serving his country
by doing duty as foreman of tl
petit jury. Tho work of lbs jui
will probably take two weeks until
ull cases beforo the Court are ;iven
a trial, so Joo will have u lengthy
vacation,
Lorenz Oleen cuine home lost
Sunday and stayed until Wcdncs
day. Mr. Utren Is drilling a well
f on llio unmpnen place east oi i.arri
zozo ami rnports rather slow pro
gress on account of having to case
There is a rumor (limit to the
effect that a new meritatililu com
pany will soon start up In Ihhíncmh
in our burg.
Mr. and Mrs. C O Uryont am
the proud pnronls of it son which
urilvcd one day last week.
HEARD AT THE
NATIONAL CAPITOL
.'he Result b of the Primary
in the Stato of Ohio Have
Cast a Gloom in tho Demo
crntic Hankfl
RECENT PRIMARIES IN
NEBRASKA LEFT SORE SPOT
Washington, D. C, May M
(Special Correspondence) The pri
nisry results in Ohio havo filled Hip
Republicans with glco and tho
Democrats willi corresponding
gloom. Tho fact thut noutly '25,
000 Democrats In that state voted
for Frank Mauiiptl, who was known
to bp opposed to the policies of the
present National administration,
caused consternation nniunc Hi'-
Democrats of tho Ohio delegation
Another dlcroiirai-lng feitltiro if
(he Ohio pilmuiles is tr font that
Senator Pomerone, who Is a candí
date for reelection, polled the leas'
votes of any of the candidates for
delegate. Ih was some 11,000 bp-
hind former Govurnor Cox It h
freely predicted at the capítol that
Ohio voters wilt swing back to tin
Republican party mid the icceut
primaries p.iint uti'iiislakably to
this outcome.
According to gossip about tho
cuplto), the recant primaries in
Nebraska l?fl a lot. of soreness und
bit i (rucan iu the lunksof the Dem
ocruta, Vhitors Iron) thut slut
aud men in Washington who or'
in touch with the situation there,
say that lho llryau aud niitl-liryan
fui cea arc already iu onuh others
hair and that it means but one on'
come at Hie general election next
November that the state will glv
its vote to the Republican elector
und that a Un i lei) States Senate
ol thut poli'ttul fuiih will boclecte I
There is uls) an indication of Re
publican gului in the concessional
JoU'gatiou.
... .1... l , ,1.1.
Stnto of Now Mexico vs. Georce l" l"Bl H'" " U",B-
"I tt i . ii . ft i
W. Wnlfp. rona-no arrest. J""K e.l0' B"lv'., , "r81
1 I tl. m.n.l ta It.K.I ill, If ft tl
rt.t.t 1 LI1U YtCCIV ailU I O fllDllllllh u
ttUtrlnl Pnnrt. rnlinvlnir .hlilun
. ... i i ii i .... v. "n .
Monioya. carrying ueauiy wcapiiii, Mechem who conducted the first
nollied. week of the term in his absence
State of Now Mexico vs. Sabino ur8 l jjoyd of
Montoya, assault with deadly
pon, suspended sentence,
school work this year.
Thursday evening the operetta
Murry Milkmaids" was tierformed
with much credit. Tho audience
the musical
Mrs. L L Uoyd of Alvorodo. followed with Interest
weft- Texas, and Mrs. T. I. Richardson do.elopment of the clever plot,
of Cloburno, Toxas, and little son, T., .,.., at,r.t l,
State of Now Mexico vs. Lorenzo -' t tracUve and some of lho' special
lorres, torgery, nomeil. ieov make-up deserve espedid ootnmen
State of New Mexloo vs Cayo- " ,...,,,.,. dotlon.
tano Atderete, larceny horscs-ver . ',,,. RHsislnnl , ,),(.lr,,ot . Tonight the graduation exercises
diet guilty. Attorney II. U. Hamilton, enterlna V.w ,0.bo.,l .U"r,n lu,,"at Mo."
State of New Mexico vs. Nestor upon his now field of labor tho first P"' ITT,. ,,"
Analta ot ol, larceny catlle-In- of tho week. r "Prenarotion and PrenarndnMs"
. i i . . m i i it i . . r
siructcii veruici. .Mrs. iü.j. oiiuiua nnu cuuureu and will of course attach an eilu
Stnto of New Mexico vs. Sosteno will leave In a few doys for a sever catlonal significance to Hits milltur
Carter,
tlnued.
larceny horse case con-
al wook's visit with relatives, in utio nublect. A number of choru
Galesburg, III. ees and piano selections will bo
Lost: Sunday afternoon on lho rendered and lilghsohoo' promotion
Ruta of New Mexico vs Leonoldo Lost: Butulay aiternoon on mo -"r , " T1 ' " ,
State oí New Mexico vs. i.eopo do Catríxoío sígnate stick certificates will be prHin ed by the
Lucero et al 2 to 3 years iu tho , wU, lnUia)H w w a Uewnrd Pr neipat. Mts. Ethel V. Jewett.
nsnltontlarv. Iff Ontlnnlf. We repent In conclusion that
- I Uunl Riai'iiiin a M I Mia ai a Antna
Arra.Ureeny neat c.tile-gullty D4Wi0 for . vieh to her brolii.r, XZZÍ T y ffli. T.
íiíti. f f t T i r . t l á l i - w. - ...... - -
oíate o now wexico ve. L.orenío I uen uuian, nnu umer reiauvcs. ,i.nB,i i, ,. .ofiil m m Inn,
Tóíres, larceny horse nollied. Frank Hnrvey la In the city to I Hon of the yenr'a work for tho term
Blata of New Mexico vs: Lorenzo day from Osouro. 101510,
HOME MISSION MEETING
The IIoiiih Mission Society of the
MethmlUt Church met with Mrs
Andrew McCurdy Wednesday after
noon. A very iniersiiug program
was rendered after which refresh
ments wero served A large mint
ber of the members were present
aud a pleasant hour was hail.
CIVIC LEAGUE DANCE
The dancn in ven at the Railroad
Men's Club Hoiiso bmt evoiilng by
the ladies of the Civic League prov
ed to bo a success finoncialiy as well
a? every one present having a good
lime. SS.tJU was ciernen which
tho League expects to spend In
donning up the town.
Mrs. J. M. Gardner and children
left the first of the week for a few
months visit with her parents ot
Richmond, Virginia, She expects
to return by way of Jackson, Michi
gan, where she will visit for a few
weeks with Mr. Gardner's parents.
Tom Fitzpatrick returned from
El Paso the first of the week wheie
he has been attending school for
the past year, and will remain here
during t tie Bummer inonini.
NOGAL
.J dined (iatewood and Mis-i Lit. i
Cochruii quietly slipped awuy from
Nogal last week and et iniirrie l
ln,Currlzo.i by Judge Mnsile. Then
many irluiuis whu mum u long uih
prospeioiiH journey through life,
We ure authorized to uunniini'
that a piotriK'ipd meeting of tin
people of the Nazuilno faith will
begin in the Henley Chapel at
Nogal next Sunday night, Muy 2Ir,
aud overybody is cordially invited
The prospect for a good crop oi
corn nevtr was belter than nnu
The ground it iu liuu condition
and tho stand of corn is the fines'
we have ever hud In this section.
T.J. Monte is whirling about in
his new Undue which he purchase!
in Coriizoz i from Dr. T W. Wut
juu In local ugeiit at that place.
There Is quite a stirin thomimii).
interest hero. It now looks u"
ihough the oniiip was coming I
lite again.
Biru to Mr. And Mrs. Web Zum
wait Friday night a boy, Mollis
und buby are gulling along nicely
Mr, líct'ie Emerson Is qulji
sick.
Mr8t of nur peopln are In attetMU
. 4. . . . ..-I I- ÍJ-lUfe
anco at uisiriM, wmtv m .uarriiizo
