t
rVltYf
J'
J
Vol. 20
EAST JORDAN. MICHIGAN, FRIDAY, MAY 19. 1916.
No. 21
n
i J fiiWIr 'H lull nlif'tl' ir
& 111 I IV
POTATO ASSOCIATIONS
FORMED BY ,
COUNTY AGRICULTURISTS
Ten of the County Agricultural Agents
of Michigan have formed County Potato
Avciations in their counties. These
organizations are for the purpose of
getting the united action of the farmers
of the County upon the more important
problems of the growing and marketing
of potatoes. Among the potato growing
states Michigati ranks second, but the
future of the industry will depend large
ly upon the associated efforts of our
potato growers. The profits of this
crop now depend largely upon coopera
tion. In these counties where associa
tions have been formed the farmers
agree to produce only pure varieties of
the type that is in greatest demand by
our best markets. These potatoes are
then inspected at various times through
out the season for the purpose of keep
ing the varieties pure and also for the
purpose of keeping them free from the
more serious potato diseases. There is
a rapidly-growing demand for disease
free potatoes for seed. In addition to
this there is a great need for our potato
growers to act together for the preven
tion of the spread of potato diseases.
These diseases may be spread by ship
ments of seed from other states or by
Jlse of diseased seed grown in this State
rV within the County. If we are to stay
in the potato business we must keep
out the diseases that are destroying the
industry in other places. By concerted
action in getting pure varieties and
keeping them free from disease the
growers are in position not only to get
good yields but also to sell in the best
markets. The best markets vsant
medium size potatoes of a certain type
and color. If the growers act together
they can supply these markets in car
load lots and in addition to this they
will be in position to enter the best
seed markets of the South and other
portions of the country wanting Michi
gan potatoes for setd.
ENCOURAGING BIRD LIFE
By Observer
One of the most worthy movements
in the United States today is that one
tending to promote an awakening
among children of the beauty and
preservation of bird and other wild life
In a neighboring city an enterprising
business firm recently conducting a
contest for boys in which cash prizes
were awarded fo- the building of bird
houses. Even the promoters were sur
prised at the number of boys entering
the contest, and, every visitor to the
place when the contest was ended was
more than surprised at the workman
ship resulting from the boys' efforts.
The promoters, after the contest had
closed and the prizes were awarded,
offered the houses for sale and netted a
jsum equal or greater than the aggre
gate sum offered as prizes. Needless
to say, that city will this summer have
hundreds of well built and ornamental
bird houses that it never would have
had only for the contest put on by that
one enterprising business firm.
Any boy can build a bird house, and
every yard in our city shonld have one
or more of them. Watering places, too
can be provided, and when these sim
ple inducements are offered, the birds
will come. Some of us think we do not
care whether there is a bird in the city,
but if we had none, we should miss
them just as we miss many things when
they are gone and cannot be recalled.
This Week as it is Not in History
Monday, May 15. Booth and Barett
play Uncle Tom's Cabin, 1050.
Tuesday, May 1C Ty Cobb paints the
ceiling of the Sistine Chapel, 1714.
Wednesday, May 17. The Empress Jo
sephine decides to go to Newport for
the summer, 1813.
Thursday, May 18 The first aviator
alights on the head of the Sphinx,
1609.
Friday, May, 19. Cycle cars are in
troduced into Persia by Ameer I Koul
1, 1510.
Saturday, May 20 Patagonia women
appear at the opera clad only in gir
dles of shark's teeth, 1915.
Sunday, May 21. Julius Caesar has
Theodore Koosevelt as a week end
guests, 1500.
Postoffice clerk in country office
-fewest of Ireland Here, your letter
I Overweight.
1 Pat Over what weight?
v Clerk It's to heavy; you'll have
put another stamp on it.
to
Pa Yerra, get out wid your fooling.
Shu re, if I put another stamp on it,
won't it be heaver still?
Commission Proceedings.
Regular meeting of the City Commis
sion held at the commission rooms,
Monday evening, May 15, 1910. Meet
ing was called to order by Mayor Cross.
Present Cross, Gidley and Lancaster.
Absent None.
Minutes of the last meeting were
read and approved.
On motion by Gidley, the following
bills were allowed:
Enterprise Pub. Co., printing, $ 16.90
II. L. Winters, correcting
descriptions, 16.25
City Treasurer, payment of
labor, 41.40
A petition, signed by Ira I). Bartlett
and ten other citizens and tax-payers,
and asking that the city appropriate the
sum of $100.00 for organized playground
work, was presented, and on motion by
Gjdley, was laid on the table for fur
ther consideration.
On motion by Lancaster, meeting
was adjourned to meet Friday evening,
May 19, 1916.
OTIS J. SMITH,
City Clerk.
ELBERT BEDE SAYS
We trust that this return of prosperi
ty is not "phychological" also.
A bony girl becomes merely a slender
one when you are in love with her.
Sometimes the more indifferent you
appear the more you are likely to hear.
It must grate on England to have to
measure its money by the standard of
its estwhile colony.
When a woman meets the postman
with a smile and doesn't get a letter,
she thinks he is extremely unapprecia
tive. Sometimes it happens that members
of one party are more seriously inter
ested in the nominee of the opposing
party than in the nominee of their own.
Your morals may have little effect
upon your success in lire so long as
you are not found out; but the immoral
can not long keep it to themselves.
When a man or a woman is naturally
of a somewhat mildly hilarious dispo
sition, it annoys them when they are
acting dignified to be asked if they are
sick or something is the matter.
When night after night, week after
week and month after month, the wife
who has been married a dozen years,
tries to be neat and attractive for hub
by when he comes home, you may put
it down as a real love match.
mong the undesirable aliens are
those blue-blooded fellows who come
here with no intentions of becoming
citizens and spoil our sweet American
girls by taking them away to wear
European titles, when they would look
much prettier in a mother hubbard
keeping house for some red-blooded
American.
W. C. T. U. Program.
Program for W
C. T. U. to be held at
E. L. Burdick, Friday
the home of Mrs.
May 19th
Leaders Mrs.
Bradford and Mrs.
Henry Sheldon
Song Michigan My Michigan
Devotionals Led by Mrs.
Henry
Sheldon 1
Song Michigan Campaign Rally Song
Roll Call Answered by Current
Events
Reading of Minutes
Business
Topic for Program Suffrage
Reading The Safe and Sane Way-
Mrs. Brintnall
Instrumental music Miss Lorraine
and Miss Hall
Reading Suffrage Success Mrs.
Robertson
Solo Shadow Land Miss Una Ruth
Burdick.'
Learn a Little Every Day.
There are over 2,000,000 automobiles
used in this country.
The telephone service of this country
represents a valuation of v$350,000,000.
The birth rate in this, and all civi
lized countries, is being steadily low
ered each year.
Use a paint brush for removing dust
from furniture, there is no service too
small for it to enter.
In Los Angeles, every house, hotel
and apartment building must bear
tag wiih the owner's name.
Gas engines taken into the mountains
lose one per cent of their horsepower,
for every thousand feet elevation.
Nature cannot jump from winter to
summer without a spring, nor from
summer to winter without a fall.
When a young man tells a leap-year
girl that be dreamed of her the night
before it is up to her to propose or get
out of the game.
U V k , ik it & ir I
Are You eadytoPlay Your Part'?
HE power of a nation
ducing power of her industries.
America must find out what this producing powei
is and then develop it The capacity of every plant
must be gauged. The ability of every man must be known.
For War is Mechanical It Electrical h is Chemical. It
is Mining. Manufacturing, Transportation. It is EVERY
phase of Engineering fused into a single industry
"THE NATION'S DEFENSE."
Thirty thousand Engineers today are serving YOUR COUNTRY
without pay. They are making a survey of YOUR COUNTRY'S Indus
trial Resources. They are helping YOUR COUNTRY to FIND ITSELF
and You! They are charting the channels of commerce. Sounding each
source o( supply. So that, ibould the Day break when War must come-
YOUR ARMIES in the field will be but the crest of a Wave of In
dtutry, as wide as the American Continent and as deep as the American Soul.
That YOUR COUNTRY may know what the Engineers are doing,
the Associated Advertising Clubs of the World have pledged their services to
the President of the United States. And this advertisement, published free
ty this paper, is part of a nation-wide series to secure YOUR co-operation
with the Engineers. "If HAT CAN I DO?"
This is, doubtless, the question you are asking yourself. Here is the
answer: If you are a manufacturer co-operate fully with the Engineers so
they can do their job Quickly and efficiently; if you are a working man
help your employer to help the Engineers and be prepared, if so needed, to be
a Soldier in Industry, behind the firing line, which is just as important as being
a roUier on the firing line; if you are a business man or a professional man,
or whoever you are, help mobilize "GOOD WILL" behind this patriotic
task of the Engineers in behalf of National Defense and International Peace.
COMMITTEE ON INDUSTRIAL PREPAREDNESS OF THE
NAVAL CONSULTING BOARD OF THE UNITED STATES
m co -operation with
I he Amnw Society ol GvJ Enpineen Th American Society of Mechanical Engineer
I lie American Institute of Mining Engineers The American Institute of Electrical Engineer
The American Chemical Society
Engineering Societies Building 29 WeU 39th Street. New Y"'
JPPPPPHMI Wjfjffl
i 5r T-T-rV
ALONG THE FIRING LINE
Don't get an idea that German in
dustries are at a standstill because or
the devastations of war. One of the
largest cotton-spinning mills of Bavaria,
the Kulmbacher Spinnerei, declared a
dividend for 1915 of 12) per cent, com
pared with 10 per cent in 1914. A por
celain factory of OberFranken recently
handed out a 10 per cent dividend for
the year, after laying aside a large
amount for reserves. The industrial
fabric of Germany is better than ever.
The efficiency which has been char
acteristic of the Germans has been
raised to the 9th power during this war,
and when it is over there will be a
great horde of men willing to go into
the mills at any wage. Then is the
time that this country will need a pro
tective tariff instead of the present
near-free-trade abomination.
During his imperial reign as Compt
roller of the Currency, John Skelton
Williams has taken delight in devising
new sets of questions for the national
banks to answer. It is said that no two
of his calls have included exactly the
same inquiries. As a result, the banks
have been compelled to keep their
clerks working overtime often late
into the night, to compile the t desired
information. Now Williams has in
solence to suggest to the bankers in a
fatherly way, that they should give
their clerks a long vacation in order
that ample opportunity may be had to
check the books and accounts of the
clerks and detect irregularities. Strange
how this country ever managed to build
up a magnificent system of banks with
out Williams assistance.
President Willson's claim that "we,''
meaning the Democratic Party, have
given the country its present prosperi
ty, is contradicted by the speech of
Paul M. Warburg, of the Federal Re
serve Board, at Buenos Ayres, in which
Warburg shows that the remarkable
transformation in business conditions
has been brought about "since the war
began". In trying to explain why
American capital has not been turning
to South America, Mr. Warburg said
that we have been too busy with the
tremendous war orders, but he ventur
ed the prediction that in the near future
American business men will be giving
considerable attention to South America
When the Democratic spell-binder tries
to take credit to his party for such pros
perity as we are now enjoying, don't
overlook this speech of Warburg's.
How wonderfully quiet the Democrats
are keeping over their repeal of the
free sugar clause. Why don't they
point to it as one of the great accom
plishments of the administration? Or
are they afraid to acknowledge the con
cession to Republican statesmanship?
Sohn Skelton Williams telling the
bankers of the country how to run their
business is on a par with a city-bred
in time of
need is the pro-
youth trying to tell an experienced and
successful farmer how to run his farm.
It has been about a month since Pres
ident Wilson went to the Capitol to tell
Congress what he had written in his
latest note to Germany, and still the
note writing goes on.
The speech of Senator Reed of Mis
souri, defending the Democratic assault
on the Civil Service, won't help him
any in his campaign for re-election.
Secretary J. B. Reynolds, of the Re
publican National Committee, says that
the Democrats need an explanation
clerk. Yes, several thousand of them.
Chile has revised her customs tariff.
Chile is on a protective basis. We'll
be with you, Chile, in about a year,
with revision and protection.
President Wilson confessed he is not
a business man. No, and if he got into
business and tried to run his private
business the way he runs the public
business, he wouldn't be a business
man very long.
We can still remember the Maine but
have forgotten the Lusitania.
1916 Da Mils
If I were selecting a name for a boy
who loved to stay in the woods, I would
pick Nick.
Even when he is in the prime of life
a young man's arm is likely to go to
waist.
No matter how honest a picture mold
ing may seem, it will be framing up
something soon.
When Eve made her costume of
leaves, did she keep it in a tree trunk?
While it is waiting for the rest of the
piano to be built, where does the key
board?
Old Jokes
Re-Twisted
"Was Nero as black
as he is paint
ed?"
"Sure. Didn't he add insult to in
jury by torturing the Romans with his
rolten violin playing, after setting their
beautiful city on fire?"
Crippled Mother Goose Rhymes
Little Tommy Tucker,
Sings for his supper;
What shall he eat?
White bread and butter,
How shall he cut it
Without any knife?
Well Thomas, in these days of high
cost of food stuff, you are lucky to
have bread and butter, without
worrying about a knife.
rather, teaching nis six-year-oia son
arithmetic by giving a problem to his
wife, begs his son to listen:
Father "Mother, if you had a dol
lar and I gave you five more, what
would you have?".
Mother (replying absently) "Hys
terics."
STATE MAN II ERE
FIFTEEN SCHOOLS VISITED
A number of school boards were
planning on remodeling their schools
and wondered how they could do this
so as to get the best results and give
the best service to their districts. A
few wondered what they would have
to do to make their schools "Standard."
For this reason they asked that an in
spector from the state department
come out to look their building over
and tell them what the requirements
would be. This does not bind them in
apy way whatever and does not cost
the district a cent. It does give them
an opportunity to see what is being
done in other counties of the state and
in other districts of this county.
In response to their invitations Mr.
W. L. Coffey of Lansing was to arrive
in Charlevoix on the morning of Mon
day, May 8th. Due to a misunderstand
ing of the schedule he was late, but
Mr. Munson, Deputy State Suoerin-
tendent, happened to be in town on
other official business and kindly con
sented to work in the country until Mr.
Coffey should arrive. In the morning
trip out from Charlevoix, Mr. Munson
visited the Hilton and the Johnson
schools. Both school houses could
easily be made "Standard" and by a
little pushing and some extra live wire
enthusiasm could be made into model
school rooms like the ones described
by the land commissioners in the vicini
ty of some of our larger cities. In each
case a type-written report of the visit
and of recommended chancres will be
sent from Lansing to the school board
issuing the invitation.
Directly after dinner Mr. Coffey was
on hand to take up the work and the
commissioner took him first to Phelps.
The school board was already at the
school house to give him a hearty wel
come. They were quite relieved to
find that they would have very few
necessary changes in working- for a
"Standard" plate. They needed a
little more light and would need the
seats set a little closer together. The
seats were a good kind and splendidly
arranged. The school board spoke of
one or two possible improvements to
relieve the congested condition due to
their very large enrollment. Mr. Coffey
explained that the "Standard" school
requirements were only such as every
school ought to have anyhow only that
the state department were offering
these plates as an inducement to dis
tricts to fix up a little.
He reached Rock Elm at 3 o'clock and
found a live, wire delegation awaiting
him. Rock Elm has already made a
number of improvements and is still
improving. These people can ask
more questions in ,ten minutes than
any cross examiner, would ask of his
victim. It's all right tho. they are
thinking. What they do they not only
want to do right but they want to know
why they do it. They were advised to
place a bank of windows on the north
east, leaving only one of the old win
dows on the southwest. Then in order
to relieve the barrenness of the side
facing the road they should place near
the ceiling oblong windows with frost
ed panes.
After a hearty and enjoyable feed at
the Secord home, a fifth school' was
visited for a protracted evening session.
The Walker school board had called a
special meeting for the occasion to put
the project before their electors. They
needed to remedy the narrowness of
their building and the congested condi
tion or the air due to the small air
space and large enrollment. The pupils
had prepared some musical numbers
for the occasion. Those boys ancK girls
can really sing. By the way they can
yell too. We knew that when "Eveline
No. 5 rang thru the air. The commis
sioner spoke on "Standard" schools in
general and explained that each school
district would have to decide for itself
whether or not it chose to be standard
but that care in details often determin
ed the prevention of much illness. Mr.
Coffey told of some of his own experi
ences as a commissioner, of the value
of a good school library and proved the
evil effect of cross light in the school
room. The electors requested the
school board to have a correct estimate
made of all needed improvements and
the cost of the ten foot addition in
question. They adjourned for two
weeks to give time for this work. The
good mothers of the districts had sur
mised that the crowd might be hungry
and served sandwiches, coffee and cake
to meet the requirements of a standard
appetite.
Tuesday was a banner day. Six
schools were visited, the first at 7:30
a. m. and the sixth at 5:00 p. m. Supt.
Craig of Charlevoix attended the com
missioner and inspector in these visits
lending his weight to the nation-wide
movement meeting the school boards
and learning their problems. The
schools in the order visited were Iron
ton, Star, Tainter, Wildwood Bay Shore
and Undine. In every case the inspec
tor was on time or a little ahead of his
prearranged schedule and the school
board was out in full force at the school
house. He found every building a
different problem but all are working
for the same goal. In all cases for a
Standard-school the windows would
have to be rearranged and in some
cases the ventilation had to be correct
ed or supplied. Two schools had their .
seats arranged in rows of one size but
all would need to place the seat nearer
the desk belonging to it. In these
cases the department furnishes a
seating schedule. In most cases there
would be out little expense necessary
in meeting the suggestions of the de
partment but it was the interest shown
by the school officers that pleased Mr.
Coffey. He complimented our north
ern country on its interest in its schools
as contrasted with some of the older
and more thickly settled regions.
Wednesday was a rainy stormy day;
the kind that needs every bit of philoso
phy one has gleaned from the poets,
and even then that gray, muggy sky
would have an evil effect. Supt. Mc
intosh of Boyne City became a passeng-
m ... . 1 f.M.1 A.
er lor ooxn pleasure ana prom oui
there is no record of his having com
plained of the weather. Seventy miles
were covered, thirty-five with a team
and thirty-five by Ford. The problems
were met and handled; duplicate re
ports of the inspection will be returned
to the districts visited. The Blain
school out from Clarion was visited
first, then the Mackie school near
Springvale, the Paddock school near
Boyne Falls, and the three room school
in the village of Boyne Falls. The
Ford then sped along thru East Jordan
to Charlevoix and left its occupants to
take the boat to St. James the next
morning. Here the angry waves of
Lake Michigan interfered; . the boat
didn't go.
Mr. Coffey was one of the first care
ful students of lighting conditions in
rural schools. As a commissioner in
Cheboygan county he had the eyes of
every student carefully tested by the
teacher in charge. He found that 51
to 68 of the children were suffering
from defective vision. In only one
school was the percentage less than 50
per cent. This was in a "Standard"
school which had been "Standard" for
ten years, had one side lighting with
walls of buff and cream tinting. In
this school only two children had weak
eyes an 1 these two children came from
a family in which he eyesight was
poor thruout. These statistics which
he had gathered from his own schools
he later used in a paper which he pre
pared for the National Educational
meeting in Buffalo, and which attract
ed nation-wide astention to the poor
lighting conditions of the built by guess
school buildings.
We can't get a state man here very
often nor for very long at a time but
when we can it pays. As soon as we
can work up to it once more we shall
try to have Charlevoix again included
in the state schedule. The whole thing
is just for our boys and girls, the future
of to-morrow.
County Normal Notes.
(Florence Maddaugh)
Miss Carrie Geiken gave the class an
interesting talk last Tuesday about her
work as a trained nurse and what a
nurse has to do when she goes into
training.
Florence Maddaugh was out of school
Wednesday on account of illness.
On Monday evening the normal class
enjoyed a trip to the Walker school.
County School Com'r Stewart and State
Inspector Coffey had charge of the
meeting which was for the purpose of
discussing the changes which would
have to be made before the school
would be declared "Standard." Delici
ous refreshments were served by the
school children under the direction of
their teacher, Miss Grace Meggison,
and an excellent program was given
which consisted of songs, - speeches
and yells.
The teachers practicing in the train
ing room are: Rena Carroll and Cather
ine LaLonde who have charge of third
grade language, Sadie Donleoy who is
teaching the chart class, and Mary
Boice who has sixth grade history.
About tae only difference between
repartee and impudence is in the size
of the roan who says it.
After a man gets about so full he can
make himself , believe . that other men
think bo is perfectly sober.
