rmrr-rrTr
1 MM
PAGES 1 TO 8
OWOSSO THE CITY OF PUSH"
VOL. XXXVIII
OWOSSO. MICHIGAN. MAY 19. 1916.
NO. 8
No Deaths in Corunna In April.
According to the records in the county
clerk's office, no deaths occurred in
Corunna in the month of April, a
record seldom if ever equalled in a city
the size of Corunna.. ,
Two Additional Trains on D. & M
The Grand Trunk announces that
effective June 25, two additional
trains will be' put' on the local dlvis
ion. . , ' .. , .
A train will leave Durand at 7 a.m
reaching' Grand Rapids at' 10:30 a
m. And the "Detroit Flyer" leaving
Grand Rapids at 4:00 p. m., will be
restored. .
Reduce Office Hours.
Owosso physicians will after June
first, close their offices on Tuesday and
Friday evenings, and on Sundays after
1 p. m. The doctors are, of course.
subject to call, but feel that it is un
necessary to be in their offices every
sight in the week.
i i m m
Attempts Suicide.
Emery Wilkinson, aged 63 rears, a
Vernon township farmer, was brought
to the county jail, Sunday, after he had
attempted to end his own life with
chloroform. He was found in a stupor
by his daughter shortly after noon, it
appearing that he had poured chloro
form on his pillow and then buried bis
face in it.
', Formerly Lived Here
. . .Mrs. Mary M. Woodard, aged 68
years, ' widow of the late W, A.
Woodard of this city, died at 2:30 a
m. Monday at the residence of her
sister, Mrs. Philip E. J-azenby, De-
. trolt. The. funeral was held from
the Lazenby home, Wednesday after
noon at 2 o'clock.
Mrs. Woodard had made her home
In Detroit, since removing i from
Owosso a lew years ago.
Law Violators Sentenced.
'Corunna, May 15 Sentences were
imposed upon three prisoners in cir
cult court Monday morning.
John Madison, bigamist, was sen
tenced to a term of from two to five
years in Jackson with a recommend
ation of three years.
Joseph Depotty, local option law
violator, was sent to jail for 20 days
and fined $50. Failure 'to pay the
$50 will add another 30 days to his
sentence.
George Serr, who violated the pure
food law, was fined $40.
Home Burned.
The two story frame house of Ed.
ward Pasco, three quarters of a mile
north of Pittsburg, on which his son
Roy, resided, was burned to the gronnd
last Thursday. Mrs. Pasco had just
started a fire in the stove to start sup
per when she discovered the fire at
about 5:30. The cause is not definitely
known. The loss is estimated at about
3,000. The house and furnishings
were insured for $1,400, $900 of which
was on the house.
Fire Drills.
Fire drills in the various schools
of Owosso were held Tuesday morn
ing. Fire Chief Claud Craig and W.
E. Hall. Dr. Sutherland, Dr. Wilson
and W. D. Whitehead, members of
the board of education witnessed the
drills.
, At Central school all children were
-out of the building In one minute,
twenty-two seconds. At Emerson
school Ave seconds longer was re
quired owing to the fact that the
students passed out through the rear
fire escape. At Washington school
fifty seconds were required, at Bry
ant school 'forty-four seconds, and at
Lincoln school flfty-four seconds.
Four Injured When Car Overturns.
William Bofysil and Thomas Lahey
were painfully and the former possibly
seriously injured, and Walter Smalley
and William Phelps sustained slight
bruises and cuts Wednesday night when
Ba.'ysil's Ford touring car, in which the
four men were driving north on Shia
wassee street, skidded and turned
turtle, when Bofysil turned out for a
rig- The fact that the top was up saved
tne men irom more serious injury a
possible death.
The ligaments in Mr. Bofysil's left
shoulder were badly torn, and he was
otherwise injured. Mr. Lahey is suffer
ing from bruises on the chest and back.
Auto Tax Law Valid.
The supreme court of the state ren
dered its decision,' Friday, declaring the
new automobile tax law constitutional.
The result will be that cities and town
ships will lose hundreds of thousands of
dollars on their local assessment rolla,
but much more money will be added to
the state highway fund and distributed
one half directly to the counties in
whlc hthe automobile is owned and the
balance paid in rewards on new roads
wherever built.
Trees for School Children.
. The Central Michigan Normal at
Mt. Pleasant his completed the distri
bution of walnut and peach trees and
grape vines to the school j of Michigan,
with a total of 5,000 walnut trees, 600
peach trees and 1,800 grape vines, these
all being sent out at the cost price of
production plus the charge of trans por
tation. Thirty-five thousand ' walnut
trees have been supplied in this way to
the school children of the state and the
demand this year exceeded the supply.
Next year hard maple trees will be
added to this list. Tnls Is practical
work which in a few years will result
in untold good to the state.
Big Drain Contracts Let.
. Corunna, May 17 Contracts have
been let for two drains in Shlawasj
see county, Deputy Drain Commis
sioner F. G. Boutwell stated Wed
nesday morning. :
The North State drain, located
hear Henderson, and which is 1,175
rods long, will be constructed by
Stephen Thatcher of Swartz Creek at
a cost of $7.15 per rod.
The Holly drain, near Durand, will
be built by L. C. Fosket of Howell at
a total cost of $15,000. The drain
is 1,859 rods long and has a 30-foot
bottom.
' Work on both of the improve
ments will be undertaken in the near
future.
1917 Spio Board
At a recent meeting of the Junior
class the officers of the 1917 "Spic"
board were elected. This is the first
time in the history of the high school
that underclassmen have elected the
rSplc board. This course was taken by
the class so that the officers might have
mora time to work on the year book,
which they plan to make the best yet.
The following are the officers elected:
Editor-in-chief, Robert Marshal; assist
ant editor,' Gladys Reineke; business
manager, Arthur Pierpont; - assistant
manager, Fred Storrer; grind editor,
Don Stratton; assistant grind editor,
Mamie Dougherty; advertising man
ager. Raymond Kaulitz; athletic edi
tor, 'Carl Qlffie: art editor, Marlowe
Stevens.
An EHjoyable Affair
The pot luck supper at the Y. W.
C. A. Monday night was a most en
joyable event. Thirty-five members
were present. The best part follow
ed supper when reports from the
month's experience social were giv
en. These reports were more than
interesting and showed a deep spirit
of devotion to the association. Some
of the things the girls did to earn
money was split boxes, mow lawns,
carry ashes, give shampoos, sell des
erts, cake, sandwiches and pop corn
balls and scrub and clean house.
Miss Alice Walter presented the
largest sum, having earned seven
dollars and fifty cents. The entire
sum presentod for association work
was $87.27.
'GOD'S COUNTRY
AND THE WOMAN."
Curwood's Famous Novel In Pictures
at Colonial Theatre.
For the first time in Michigan James
Oliver Curwood's popular novel will be
shown in pictures at the Colonial thea
tre. Tuesday and Wednesday, May 23
and 24. All New York papers irlve the
pictures high praise. .
The New York World says: "God's
Country and the Woman," a feature
film adapted from James Oliver Cur
wood's novel, was seen last night. The
feature was an interesting story of
primitive emotions in the far North.
better in quality than the average film
of lis kind."
Ross-Gravengood.
The marriage of Miss Erma Eileen
Rosi, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. P. H.
Rofs, to John R. Gravengood, was
solemnized by Rev. A. Ostroth at the
Evangelical parsonage, Wednesday
evening at 6:30 o'clock. They were
attended by Harold Ross of Detroit,
brother of the bride, and Miss Rose
Gravengood, sister of the groom. Mr.
and Mrs. Gravengood left immediately
for their future home in St. Johns.
The bride has made her home in this
city most of her life and is a member
of the Evapgellcal church. The groom
came here three years ago from Flint.
He is representative of the Holland
Furnace company in St. Johns.
Tbeir many friends extend hearty
congratulations.
Charles F. Brockway, a driver for the
Laverock Fuel Co., fainted while at
work Wednesday, and fell under the
front part of the wagon. The horses
became frightened and kicked him,
fracturing his right arm and injuring
his right side. He is reported' to be
resting comfortably.
Improvement Association Notes.
At the Tuesday luncheon announce
ment was made that the State Military
Board had formally accepted sthe new
armory from the contractors, the Rick
man Construction Co. The' Company
has a claim for $1,662.60 for extra work
on the foundation necessitated by the
poor footing found when the required
depth of excavation had been made,
and in order to close the building con
tract so that the building could be
turned oyer to the state free from any
claim, the Rick mans decided to sign a
release and wait for final payment until
such time as an appropriation can be
secured from the legislature to make
good .the deficiency. , The Improvement
Association will take steps to have a
bill to meet, this amount and to cover
the cost of fire escapes and some other
items essential to the completion of the
armory in a satisfactory manner pre
sented at the opening of the legislature
in January next. The State Military
Board has already passed a resolution
recommending the appropriation of the
sum required.
President Sturtevant named W. H.
VanSice, Morris Southard and Albert'
m j j hi. i a ni!
luuuMBwiuuiuitwiu uuimnaie a usi
or candidates tor tne several omcers to
be elected on Tuesday evening next at
the annual meeting and banquet. The
committee will probably suggest two
or three persons for each place and the
election will be by printed ballot con
taining all the names. The officers,
with the exception of the three direc
tors, will serve until the . time for the
regular election in September next.
From 6 to 6:30 on Tuesday evening
next preceding the banquet of the As
sociation in the armory, an informal
reception and welcome home will be
tendered A. M. Bentley, who returned
Friday evening from a stay of several
months in California. The Association
has also extended an invitation toW. K.
Prudden of Lansing, to be its guest on
this occasion and it is hoped that he
will be able to be present. The assembly
room on the second floor will be used
for the reception.
The entertainment committee has
completed the program for the banquet
which is to' be served in the auditorium
of the armory at 6:30 p. m. Tuesday.
W. D. Whitehead is to act as toast-
master and the list of speakers will in
clude Mayor De Young, W. R. Goodrich
and Hon. Milo D. Campbell. Secretary
Seegmlller will make a brief report of
the activities of the Association during
the past year and the trophy cnp will
be presented to the winning, team in
the Indoor base ball league. The ban
quet will be served by the members of
Company H which is assurance that a
hearty "feed" will be prepared, and
this with the good music promised will
leave every one in a happy mood for the
program. The tickets are 60 cts. and
ought to be purchased right away so
that the committee may know how
many to prepare for.
Assurance has been received from the
State Military Board that the state will
carry insurance on the armory to the
full amount of the cost. In other words
if the building should be destroyed by
fire the state will re-place it. This will
relieve' the Association from the ex
pense of carrying insurance to protect
the amount contributed by the people
of the county.
FIRST CIRCUS COMING.
Wheeler Bros. An Old Show, But New
Here Entire New Circus Pro
gram Is Promised.
Monday It was finally decided ar.d
agreed that Owosso is to hav xt firt !
circus of the season, on Monday, May
J
29. The agents and adyance advertis-
- uUv, ilo uiiUB uu
every avanaoie space ana location, for
mere are eiguty-nve men aneart of
Wheeler Brothers Enormous Shows, !
traveling in two special advertising cars
followed by an extra brigade of experts
whose automobiles are used "to bill the .
country for miles around." The Wheel- Tney w" als0 6Ive a Boy Scout
er Bros, show is famous in the Ewt and! 11 f0 savmg exhibition and show
South where for many years its visits camp flre gIrls bandalnS and flrst'
havebeenso popular as to place this ! ad: and "What hoyf and
... , u , , . g'ris shou d know to make good citl
organizatlon up in the millionaire class ens "
of showmen, and now seeking new. ter-j ..junior Chautauqua meets at 9:30
ritory for this tour, hopes to become cach morning of Chautauqua week
an established favorite here. i in the Mc tent. It Is undor th rll-
That the circus, like base ball, is
America's chosen recreation will hardly
be disputed, and it is likely no popular
local event gives such all 'round pleas-1
ure: the big free open den street parade,
the costly display of magnificent horses,
yanAanma . ,
handsome women gorgous trapping;
he money paid out for prov sions and
feed, the local advertising bills and the
railroad expense, all run into a grand
total. But the crowds on the streets,
the crowds from the country, the
crowds ac the show, if it don't rain, all
go to make the circus worth while. It
Is the one popular holiday event, and
me circus pays me Dir. ram or snine.
S. NINTH ANNUAL
MEETING IN LAINGSBURG.
Eleotlon of Offioers and 'Banquet
Were Principal Features Next
Convention In Corunna.
i The ninth annual meeting of the
Shiawassee County association of the
Order of Eastern Star, held in
Laingsburg Wednesday, was attend
ed by twenty-five members of the
Owosso chapter. Corunna was select
ed as the meeting place of the, asso
ciation next year.
The afternoon session, which was
In charge of the county president,
Mrs. Eleanor Colby of New Lothrop,
was most Interesting. Among those
present were: Worthy Grand Ma
tron Mrs. Ruth Bangham of Albion
and Grand Conductress Mrs. Ida
Hume, of Owosso. The address of
welcome was given by iMrs. Theo
Wade of Laingsburg and was re
sponded to in an able manner by Mrs.
William Clemens of Durand. Ralph
Gfllette of Laingsburg, pleased the
audience with several vocal selec
tions. .The Impressive memorial service
Ini hnnnr rt ihnoa urVin AartaA ..,lVi
.rfth " rt " T " "lEVA"
" --wv j
tlyj officers of the Laingsburg chap
te;;
Greetings were read by Miss Irene
Place of Bluffton, Ind., the first sec
reitary of the county association.
'Another feature of the session was
the election of officers, which result
ed as follows:
President, Mrs. Annette Smith, of
Laingsburg; first vice president, Mrs.
Marion Youngs, Corunna; second,
Harry Thomas, Durand; chaplain,
Mrs. Grace Hutchlns, Perry; marshal
Mrs- Ada Hoislngton, Vernon; secretary-treasurer,
Mrs. Anna Conant. of
Owosso.
At 5:30 o'clock the members of
the association repaired to the opera
house where an elegant banquet was
served by the ladies of the Congre
gational church. The tables were
most beautifully and artistically dec
orated for the event.
Following the banquet the chap
ter returned to the Masonic hall,
where the initiation was held.
The evening session ODened With,
O. E
music rendered by Dr. and Mrs. A. G. that the protective laws are enforc
Cowles of Durand, violinist and pi-ted. As no game shooting is allow
anist. Mrs. Rose Lahmann rendered; able until September, and only nox
several vocal selections and was ac- lous birds or animals, such as crows,
companled by Miss Helen Gibson at English sparrows, hawks, owls, etc,
the piano. I may D0 killed during spring and sum-
The initiatory work was conferred mer months, we wish especially to
by two representatives from each otCall the attention of fishermen, at
the vaTlous chapters of the county. this time, to the laws which affecf
It was reported at the convention them,
that the membership of the various) "No sale of game fish is legal at
chapters in this county is 1,423.
Jui I it Chautauqua.
Miss Margaret Mcintosh, junior
supervisor of the Coit-Alber Chau
tauqua company of Cleveland, O.,
visited this city Monday in interest
of the Chautauqua course which will
be held here July' 9-15. After talk
ing before several of the rooms of the
local schools, she addressed an audi
ence In the evening at the armory.
Miss Mcintosh, who Is a fluent and
InteresMnc sneaker. tsalrl n nart?
"Chautauqua has waked up. to the'
fact that boys and girls want to be
'up and doing,' so this summer be
side the lectures and concerts of the
big seven-day program, there will be
Junior Chautauqua for the boys and
girls. Junior Chaiitauqua means
hikes and stories and games and
contosts and a big p'.ay that all
Junior Chautauquans are to be In.
Being a Junior Chautauquans means
being a member of the Junior Town.
"All Junior Chautauquans be
come citizens of Junior Town and
organize their own government with
the help of the Junior leader. The
commission form of government Is
used and children -elect their
ewr rnm m laolnn ova Th o.r o yr 'Mam
own commissioners. They are "law
onrl rr1or " "VinolfVi" "1a , r" o n A
..mak0 good." All commissioners
wear badges. They are
divided
amone the bovs and elrls who do
their own nominating and electing,
then, the commissioners become re-
sponsible for the things done in
J unior Town.
rectlon of a college woman and col-
lege man, trained in playground work
and story telling. . v
"The bys and girls havo the ad-
vantage over their elders in being
Klven thrce Fes3!ons a dar for.a one
dollar reason ticket, whereas the
, ad
mlu tp afternoon and evenlnR
Sflslons. However, maybe 'Father'
wouid ot feel much like hearing
Ha Tarbcll If he had been playing
dodge ball, or overhead relay, or
skin-the-snake all morning.
The beys and girls are urged to
earn their 'own dollar to buy the sea-
bou ticket."
Wild Life Association Address.
The Shiawassee Wild Life assocla
tlon has issued an interesting state
ment to the public. The statement,
signed by Dr. G. L. Cramer, the pres
ident; Van R. Pond, chairman of the
propogation committee and George
E. Pardee, chairman of the protec
tion committee, reads as follows:
"The Shiawassee Wild Life
(Sportsmen's) association Is organiz
ed to put the clamps down hard on
the pursuit of game and fish, for
sport's sake, but it does stand for the
enforcement of the game laws in
such a manner that the fast disap
pearing game and fish supply may be
replenished and made permanent. It
also makes one of its great aims the
protection of the song and insecti
vorous birds which protect the farm
er and thet gardner by the destruc
tion of moths and larvae which
threaten crops, and the nurfure in
the mind of the growing child of the
idea of 'protection and conservation'
and respect for wild life In a way
that his father never had it present
ed to him.
"The association has planted near
ly a hundred thousand game fish in
the streams and little lakes of this
county in each of the years 1914
and 1915, and is co-operating with
the public domain commission to
find the most practical way to re
stock the cover with game birds.
Any possible amount of restocking
and planting is ineffectual, however,
unless it is backed up by laws clos
ing the hunting and fishing seasons
during the breeding periods and pro
tecting the young until they have a
chance to grow and reproduce their
kind. Only so can the rapid dis
appearance of the game fish from
America be checked. This is in no
sense a selfish or throttling purpose,
but one purely actuated by the desire
that all shall enjoy equal opportuni
ties for recreation and that the priv
ileges enjoyed by us and our fore
fathers shall reman to those who
come after. Every public-spirited
citizen should give not only his moral
influence to the movement, but also
his active assistance by joining the
association.
"The . Shiawassee -association
make It n. nart nf it Siifdnpaa tn npp
any time. Wall-eyed pike, rock bass,
blue gills, sunflsh and perch are now
game fish, and cannot be sold except
when taken from the Great Lakes.
"Bass, large or small mouth, can
not be taken until June 16, and then
only ten in one day, at least 10
inches in length.
"Wall-eyed pike not until June 16,
length 10 inches, 25 in one day.
(This is the pike-perch, pike shaped
body and head, moonstone eyes,
perch fins; not the ordinary pike so
i commonly called pickerel. We be-
lievw Ult;re aro u any, pi
perch in our county.)
"Rock bass, white or calico bass
may be taken at any season, bu) j
must oe ai least o incnes long ana
only 25 per day may be taken.
"Blue gills, perch and sunflsh
must be at least 5 Inches long and
may be taken at any time, but only
25 per day.
"None of the above may be taken
at any time except with hook unu
line, the hook to be taken In the
mouth of the fish, save that all ex
cept bas3 and wall-eyed pike may be
speared through the ice In January
and February.
"No spearing of any fish Is at this
time lawful in any stream or lake:
The right to spear suckers, mullet,
red.sides and pike expired with April.
!Dlp nets are also un'aw'ui except for
bait. A seine not over twenty feet
long maye be used for bait minnows.
"Jack or any artiflcal light, ex
plosive substances for taking fish, or
seines or nets except those allowed
for minnow bait, are unlawful to
have on or within one-half mile of
any stream or lake.
"Set lines and night lines are un
lawful. "The association offers, a reward of
ten dollars to anyone furnishing In
formation which shall lead to the!
conviction of any person violating
any of these laws."
Pay Your Dog Tax.
Under the new law it is toe duty of
the supervisors of townships and ward
to collect the dog tax at the time of
taking the assessment. The supervisor
'must make a list of the dogs and if the
owner pays the tax a receipt is giyen.
also a metal tag which should be at
tHched to the collar of the dog. The
first of June the list of dogs upon which
I the tax has not been, paid is turned
over t( the eberiff who99 dntv il ,!) lo
kill the dogs. So be prepared to pay
the tax or lose the dog.
H
AbsoMelyPiire
Mada from
Groam of Tartar
Derived from Graneo
J
"KEY-NOTE" FOR
PROTECTION, PREPARED
NESS and AUERICAHISU
Arthur II. Vandenberg, of Grand
Rapids, who was both temporary and
permanent chairman of the recent
Republican state convention, sounded
the keynote of "Protection, "'"Pre
paredness" and "Americanism."
He reminded the convention that
both President Wilson and Governor
Ferris are minority choices and de
clared that a party unity this year
will make Repubican victory assured.
"As we need un-hyphenated Ameri
cans in matters of international mo
ment," said he, "so, now as we con
front a . constitutional requirement
which calls upon us to select new do
mestic leadership we need un-hyphe
nated Republicans. Whatever inter
national responsibilities may be our
destiny, in response to foreign poli
cies f famed in cloister by our presi
dent, we shall be uncowardly and un
divided American citizens in standing
for 'America first' behind this presi
dent, as we would behind any presi
dent. But we can fulfill that respon
sibility to the last letter and still be
uncowardly and undividedly Republi
cans in standing for a new national
leadership in which we may have a
confidence equal to our loyalty. The
facts that clouds hang low and tem
pests threaten is no reason why we
should suspend our quest in this di
rection. On tbe contrary, it is a very
excellent reason why we should the
more earnestly' correct our charts and
compass and the more firmly demand
helmsmen for the ship of state who
may be the worthiest to help ride out
the storm."
Need of Republicanism.
Mr. Vandenberg reminded the con
vention that Republicans have met
eight times in national conventions in.
Chicago and that six out of these
eight times the Chicago nominees
have been successful; also that De
mocracy has thrice met in St. Louis
and thrice gone to defeat therefrom.
"Many times in our history," said
he, "the country has needed Republi
canism for its progress and its preser
vation, lint never has the need been
more pronounced than in this present
hour of world unrest. Unless we
build back Republican protective
tariff walls before Europe's war shall
cease, we shall suffer under a flood
tide of cheapest foreign importation,
which will bring us domestic indus
trial disaster the like of which the
plague of free trade lias never hereto
'fore produced. Our prosperity is arti
ficial. It is builded on Europe's woe.
Shall we be so un-Christian and so in
humane as to wish a continuance of
this woe lest artificial prosperity shall
cease? Rather let us speedily bring
our country back to sound Hlitical
economy; build for a prosperity which
shall be self-erected nnd not depend
ent upon the disasters of a neighbor;
re-create tariff protection builded on
a scientific basis so that American
wage and living standards shall not
sink to the lowest foreign levels which
they may be called to meet in un-pro-tected
competition.
"I read in the St. Louis Globe
Democrat the other day that Ilenrick
llcrgsen a widely -known Norwegian
merchant who has spent 120 years in
Germany declares' that in that coun
try there is now stored one and -one- .
half, billion dollars .worth of cheap
merchandise, mostly produced, by wo
men, ready to be sold to the world,
immediately peace is declared. This
is a straw which indicates the direc
tion of the wind. Those only are
blind who refuse to see. We must
protect the markets of America."
(Continued on page two.)
