THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Cloudy and warmer to-day; unsettled;
probable rains to-morrow.
Highest temperature yesterday, 34; lowest, 19,
Detailed weather, mall an marine reports on pace 1.
tin.
IT SHINES FOR ALL
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 194.
NEW YORK, SUNDAY, MARCH 12, 1916. CopirWif.ltllfi.W the Sun Irlntinp ami Publishing A$oclatlon.
64 PAGES.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
GERMANS ENTER
VAUX; DRIVE AT
FORTREPULSED
Hold Part of Village, but
Are Unable to Push Ad
vance Up Height.
CHAlKiKI) FOUR DEEP
WKST OF DOUAUMONT
'aris Official Report Tells
of Terrific Losses in
Fridays Rattle.
INVADERS 3IAKE
GALX NEAR RILELMS
Copt tire Position Covering
l.tOO Yards to Depth of
Two-thirds of Mile.
ffiraat Cablt Tni,atch to Tas Sin.
Paris, .March It. Thcro was n pro
nounced lull to-day on tho Verdun front.
West of Douaumout. on the eastern bank
of the Mouse, there was violent artll
cry the. Indicating the possibility that
'he Germans may attempt another at
ark In this sector. Hut the artillery
tit Iiss violent on the rest of the front,
-ludlng the sector of the Woevre, and
o .ufuiitry action was attempted during
io day.
I'urther official details given to-day of
'ie Infantry fighting west of Douaumout
tsterday show that the Germans auf
ni enormous losses In these encoun
'tis, in which they were able to make
u appreciable progress. Three attacks
vrr made In all. l.ach attack was
.nade by four lines of men. French ar
tlilery and machine guns mowed down
the Hermans as they mme on and the
ground was covered with dead at tho
tnd of the battle.
German l.ntcr tan.
The Germans made new und Uronger
affurts last night to capture the Vaux
positions. After a prolonged bombard
ment further Infantry attacks were de
iver.d against the village and the Ger
man gained a foothold In some house
to ' ,e cat of the village church. When
in effort was made to continue theo
;a, it it Include the western part of the
villain" the Germans were driven back
jnJ the French are still In possession
of 'lie western part.
The Gi rmans then turned their atten
tion tn the Vaux fort and were mile
. lake some progress along the slopes
an it to tlin position, hut failed under
e French tire to reach the barbed wire
iiR.ementx
T ie Germans made a s.plrtfe.1 attack
e " lay op the French salient at Hols
IhHUs. near Vllle-au-ltolH. north-
t of Herry-au-H.ii". Sevcial houis
. epar.itory artillery woik preceded
h., .,, .it.- 1p.,...ti emmtr
attaci
i mi' the German from the north- J
.. .. ...it..,.. ... tr....tl,l.. ..f th 1
,i, inch the Gei-.r.ans had won.
T.ie Germans also won temporary
io -e.'i-doii la-t night of an important
0. 1 i inicatlon trench on the west side,
' tie .Meuse between Hethlncourt and,
1. ..t ue-ourt. Tho Trench recovered the
i i immediately by a counter attack.
rllllery Fire MaeUell. I
T ulTiclal communliiue Issued by
tre r-ui.-h War Ufflce to-ulght follows:
tlelslum a de?triictlvo lire was
due t, against the enemy trem-lre
nl eomimmiu.ttlng trenches in the
re. un of Steelisiraetc and the envl-
ri s of Hlxhvhoote.
I Artols, to 1he e.ibt of Neuvlllc.
i ilodul a mine, the crater ot
f .! iKiupled.
lietweeti 'lm Somme and th Olse
liotnatrded (Serman organization
I region of llerbecourt. Laucourt
i . lii uvr.il-iios.
i i 'he north of the Alsne the can
,nlo wis maintained very lively
In region of the Ituin de llultis. to
ll. ninth of V!!e-auxlluU.
'in t..i! left bank of the Meuse the
ei viv of the artillery on lth side.
v i le-c active In the course, of the
d. ini tho right hank an Intense
I H.,anliiiet wan maintained ill the ro
ll u to the west ot Oouaumwnt. It
f 1 1 less violent on the rest of the
( "i", .in well .is lu tbn Woevre. The
eifi did pot attempt any Infantry
I ' on on tho whole of our front. Ac
crdirig to the latest Information the
fi'i'tliss ashault inadi) yesterday
k.-i ust our tjenehea to the west of
l".i.iuniont were murderous for tho
' 'tiy 'nie Germans altackeil threo
' K ,1 line four deep. Mowed down
I jr artillery and mitrailleuse lire,
t retired, leaving the ground cov-
ei 'I w.'ii dead.
I- t ii. region of Iiouaumont to-day
' of our aeroplane brought down
1'iUer, which fell in Haines Inside
tl tVr-mtn lines.
ClulilltiK at ilux Intruar,
.I'ti-riioiin (oiuinuiifue was as fol-
I'.
n.i of Hie Alslle the enemy, after
g Ujinbardnl fur heveral hours
' ' iiy our position betwien Tro
II I llerry-nu-llac, moved out from
' ii i-lloi and attacked the salient
' i by our line at thu Hols drs
l.r ,
' ,i very Hpiilled light we drove
t i-niv fitiin the nortliwestein e.
' hi well as fioni tile western
. .., inn wood. Till wan lenl
' i lliT.n.itls had succeeded ill
i , i .
i ' or in.- Menu- the Geininns last
I ' vi reil a sluing altar), south
f lle.liliiioiiit iiKnilist our
' i ' along the highway fioiu
1 .mil to I'hitt.iliiourl, An tin-
' i omit) r attack gave u full
i 'I, of the 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 .i 1 1 1 lommunl-
1 ohIiiiukI oil -'ili 'iiflr
MM sit M'KI'IAIr 1 10 I. 'I. Otll.V.
,' ir l AiikiihI.i. VU HOUTIIIiltN It.Vlt.
) Inn lug mail Uturoom vlenpliiK cars.
' i'.,.r.inoiH cur dully to Auguiitu. Uliilnf
"r N, intlcf, :M Fifth Ave.
GERMAN PLEDGES BROKEN
IF S1LIUS WAS TORPEDOED
Seven Americans on Neutral Bark, Sunk Near Havre, 1
All Saved Possibly Victims of Mine, Washington
Thinks State Department Orders Inquiry.
Wahiunoto.v, March II. Tlie trouble
between the United State and Ger
many over the Bubmarlne question may
bo brought to a head as a result of the
alleged action of a submarine com
mar.tler In sinking the Norwegian bark
Slllus. This ship, with seven Americana
on board, was sunk without warnltiK in
Havre Itoada on the night of March 9.
According to advice received from Con
sul Osborne at Havre the seven Amer
ican were rescued.
Whether or not tho sinking of the
Stilus may be followed by a rupture In
the relations between the United Stat"
ami Germany will depend altogether
upon the facts developed by the Investi
gation Instituted to-day by order of Mr.
Lansing, the Secretary of State.
The Stilus Is believed to have been an
unarmed shin. Assurances have been
received from Germany by the United
States that such vessel will In no clr-1
cumstnnccs be attacked In violation of
tho rules referring to warning and
search. For this reason Government
otllclals and German Kmbassy authori
ties Incline to the belief that the In
quiry ret in motion to-dny will disclose
that the Slllus was sunk by a noaung
mine.
ltlgh of American Seamen.
The loss of the Stilus was first re
ported last night from London. Con
firmation was conveyed to the Depart
ment in the cablegram from Consul Os
borne, which stated that three members
of the crew were reported to be lost.
Secretary Lansing wilt suspend judg
ment until all the facts are ascertained.
If the Stilus, an unarmed neutral vessel,
was attacked without warning the act
is a clear violation of the pledges made
by the German Government with regard
to submarine warfare.
The seven Americans aboard the
bark, sailing from New York for Havre
on February .. were members of the
crew. This fact only adds to the serious
aspect of the situation. It Is held by
the Government that Americans follow
ing the sea for a livelihood are really
more entitled to protection than cttlsens
who elect to travel. The fact that the
seven men were saved ennnot bo re
garded as lessening the offence if the
circumstances were as reported by Con
sul Osborne. Une ot them, Joim Mart
mann. IS years old, was seriously In
jured In the legs und was taken to the
Pasteur Hospital.
Among State Department official the
view was quite generally expressed that
the Slllus was undoubtedly sunk by a
mine. This view Is entertained despite
the despatches stating that the vessel
waa torpedo d. There was no mention
In the official despatches of the nation
allty of the submarine. Officials here are
Inclined to lelleve that tfe American
Consul at Havre obtained his Informa
tion from numbers of the crew, who
might have been mistaken us to the cause
of the tragedy. 'Direip otllclals declare
that If the Sllltis was torpedoed without
warning by a German submarine com
mnnder f"e net was In direct contra
vention of pledges made to this Govern
ment by the Herlln Foreign OMlre.
In German circle the view was ex-
HARDEN SAYS GERMANY
SHOULD SEEK PEACE
IJjm l)o So IIS Victor.
Merlin
Ktlitor Dfcliiivs Sees
It ii in in IiGiieT Wnr.
Sptcl Cablt Umxilch to Tur. So.
1.0NPOS-. March 1 1. Maximilian Har
den :.. outhpoken 111 a tecent article
.. V.I. 1. ll T1
In fr Ziifcaii'. a iiipy
!. received bete. He makes a strong
,,,.,.,.., fr i,eac,i and urge that the
i German Government, ""gin ncisotiatlon
I i llm..K-
I I limn ..... ?
he say., "has heaped vie
"Germany
mrv iii.oti vlctoiy. Fpon her. ineremre,
d'.volves the duty of tuakln
an offer
ire. Such an ffer
mil.! fmlv
,i, IV. . .....tl..,..
add
to aiul no; iiiiiuiie-ii -. ..
It would be a proof of her strength, not
"'"'Hctsldes. Gei many must propose
peace became she I In need of peace.
Germane Is victorious in the field, but
nternn iy she Is beset with dltllcu ties.
We cannot deny that tho preparation,
for the third hurt eat aie nioro dlfllcult
than for the second. We do not yet
lack men. but we can no longer procure
certain raw materials.
"Meanwhile our war expeiidlturo is In
creasing to an alarming extent. At the
end of three yearn of war wo should
have lost every one of the commercial
markets wheto we had established posi
tions which wero seemingly unassailable.
"If Germany waltn longer sho w
find herself reduced to obeying the will
of her enemlis. It thus becomes necea
saiv that she Invito the world to con
elude peace. Till Invitation may be
Interpreted us a sign f weakness, but
that mutter, little. If our offers are
declined o shall have iiimiieii ine.
final duty which our raiiK-inur ..n....,...
toward l-.urope nun lonum nu o,
.Upnii Tskri KiwILh AdrUer.
March 1 1. Dr. Thomas Haty,
an Ihigllshman and an authority on in
ternational law. has been engaged by
th Foreign Ofllco as iuivior. lie Uc
ceeds Henry W. Peiilson, all American,
who died In HH.
THE SUN TO-DAY
CONSISTS OF SEVEN SECTIONS, AS FOLLOWS
FIRST -Genera! News
SECOND - Sporting. Kennels, Automobile!
fHIHO Society, Dram. Muis, Schools, Fashions
FOURTH -Pictorial Magaiine
FIFTH -Lithogravuie Supplement, Art
SIXTH - Special Features, Books, Queries, Clie
6i;tAT-Foreisn, Real Eitate. Cardens, Poultr. Financial. Problem
Total .
RtaJtii or tuusJcaUts uho do not ittcltt all of Me tttliom utll tonjtt a Jaior
on "Tht Sun" ly nottfytni the Publication Dtpattmtnt of once by the phone
(2200 Btthman) and mining tttlhru ulll k promptly foruaM 1 pcitlUt.
pressed to-day that If a subinaiine com
manAir did Hlnk the Stilus he acted
through Ignorance of the character of
the vessel. It Is regarded as significant,
however. Chat tho Stilus, according to
advices received here, hud her neutral
character plainly marked on her sides.
Awaits Kail Itrporte.
It was announced to-day that Secie.
tary J,ansliig will not net in the Sllluf
case until ho has received full reports
from otllclal quarter. He must have
affidavits of passenger and crew show
ing beyond reasonable doubt that It win
a torpedo, a mine or internal explosion
that sent the Stilus to the bottom and
endangered the live of American cltl-1 apologici enveloped vestcrday's g.Uher
iens. Such ullldavits cannot reach here Ing of th" Thompson legislative Inqulr
for a week or ten day. . ers Sev.-ral hours of the committee's
That thi" Slllus was unarmed wa gen- ., , ... ., , ,.,-
erally taken for granted, since she wa. 1 tlme un'1 u '"1,M i)w l.p."iui were
a neutral ship of commerce. This fact ! required to settle the eulphuroin utmo.
In Itself, according to the authorities. ' phere diffused thiough the room when
may make tho case more, ertou than
any that have confronted this Govern-,
KM'
ment slntv tho war began. The Central
Powers have never made the contention
that neutrals may not travel wltih safety
on unarmed neutral ships. .
Owing to the flsreup In Mexico very
Iltllo attention was given U4 the Slate
Department to-day to the case of the
Slllus further than the Issuance of or-1
ners ror an iniinry a 10 tne racts.
Secretary Lansing was engrossed In
Mexican affairs, and I'resldent Wilson
was out of the city. The Secrets ty do-
cllned to make any comment on the mat
ter pending tho receipt of full otliclul le
ports. The Slllus via a J ,300 ton three mas
ter, formcily the Hrltlsh bark llelly.
It is reported that I apt. Syvertseti or
the Slllus was drowned and that two
sailors are missing, The lemaliilnK num
bers of the civw wen saved.
The New York agnt of the Une stated
that only four Americans, all member
of the crew, were on hoard the Slllus
when she was sunk. There were no pas
setigers. The American were Henry Monnhan
of Huston, Daniel Nonih of Connecticut,
David Sherman of Hedfonl. Mass., and
John llartman nf Philadelphia.
Th. I.firtt .,.11.1 from V Vnrli nil
February for Havre with I.IOn tons I
of barley, (.'apt. A. H. Syveiisen was
In command or the crew or seventeen
men.
GERMANY MARKING TIME
Pari "Teip" ! rreenl !nli
marlnc I'ollcy I Insincere.
Sptcial Cablt lieipalch to Tne 3r.
1'ahih. March 11. The 7Vmp. ays :
"Germany is once more seeking tn
gain time by falsifying the Ist-ue wttn
tho t'nlteil State Instead of straight
forwardly renouncing her criminal form
of submarlnii war or pursuing her
adopted attitude to It tine end,
"Whatever objections in pilncipl.. thf
American believe are to be adduced
ugaluet the blockade a esiabllhhed there
I no poclhle connection between them
anil the Inexcusable submarine pro, ceil
ings which nall American citizen and
all noii-liclllgereiita In their asured
tight."
AMERICANS KILLED 500
IN HAYTI, SAYS WALLER
MlirillC Coi'llS Colonel Tcll.s of
the CiiMiulties Hiirin tlie
Intervention.
P1111.Ainii.rnu. Manh 11. Col. Little,
ton W. T. Waller, the senior of hi rank j
In the I'nlted States Matlne Corps, gave '
an Interview to-night at the up rivet
house of the ll.tclulor I large Club, In
which he said that the American force
killed .'.on natives during the recent In- 1
terventinu in the llaytluu revolution.
It was the first statement that has I
been made regarding the number of'cni Williams, tlie In hi . leaning
itenfli iiinnnr the llnvtlan traceable to 1 toward him over the reporters' table
American Intervention. Col. Waller'
statement follows in part
"Of tlie .100 rebels wiio were not killed
outright by tho American bullets about
35U succumbed to dlsense contracted ,!
they lay wounded
d III bushes. At times
the American officers, In self-defence,
were compellid to turn the full force of
the hot machine gun directly Into a
place of concealment from which rebel
bullets wero wildly emerging, lu oul.v
a few Instances did the rebels fair the
American troop In regular battle line
and after they felt the true aim of the
khaki clad boys they depended entirely
on sniping.
"The Haytlans neither knew nor cared
to learn how to save the live of their
Injured. The wounded lay for days
suffering agonies, the Americans learned
after peace had bern restored. .None
but little parties of rebel who weie
with the wounded men knew of the In -
Juries, and the Injured companions
seemed not to cue what becainv of
thrui,
"Seven strong forts were taken, one
by means of a thrilling hand to hand
engagement, In which American buo
nets proved superior to those of the
revolutionists
"Twentv-two Aniercans weir whot
down or died from wounds, all of tlu-m
nractlcallv shot .linm iiniiuisii, 1 lie
machine guns, ably handled, saved the
American llvew In the attacll.s on III'
foils."
Paces.
14 I 20
ft
. 10
4
, 8
. 12
. 10
ret
'LIAR' TO MOSS
dv d d rn iimn
Di D.n.i.nDAf
STARTSFRACAS
Hearing Almost llecoines
Affray as Col. Williams
Accuses Lawyer.
SPECTATOR. II A U LED
UP OX .IOIIX DOE WRIT
A datk indigo blue haze (f profunlty,
expletive, deiiunclitloiis. threats and
Co rimot,v S. William", president f
., ,,,..', ., ., i,.,.,,,.
"w ' "'i""""11'""
Moss, the committee's counsel, damned
liar mid an Interested spectator added
cMr.icterlz.itlon the epithet
. ,., ... ...
"loaiei. emueiui.mii vvnn me s..,.
Jectlve.
Col. Williams, who enteied the hear-
Ing a few minutes before the noon te
ce.s, a bundle of p.ixr und ortfoli.
under hi aim, took violent exception to
a statement attributed to Mr. Moss in
u morning nevvepaper to the elTivt that
Mr. Jliw Intended to trv to prove that
the It. It. T. Ihiiius of 9100.000 to "tile
doughty C.ilonvl," n he later railed
him. came out of a credit or Jl.OnO.000
allowed by the clt to u suhldlar.v of
the II. It. T. Col. Williams waited un
til tho noon recess, when home of the
audience had left the room. Most ot
them and the commlttco were there,
lion ever, wo w hen the afternoon session
began every Isidy was eo charged with I
light that the lapping of a hammer lu j to have ln-en arrested to-day at Guada
the hall het nerve on edge. . lal ir:u Whether he was arrested or not
Srrlotts Aspeels of lnj.
The indluo blue haze ni:i'0t Wcloude
tl u..H,.,w ..f .1...
mony serious In the m-iim- of' not liepig i
)i"M botiffe which were thee.
Secretary Travis II. Whitney of the
Public Service Commission ptodmed
from t lie safe of the commission a let
ter proposing to Chairman Wlllcox a
subway plan drawn by I're-ld-nt Tlu-o-
dore I Shout of tin- Intertioroiigh ill
I March. lio. which contemplated build
ing extensions to the city's transit sys
tem with nil private capital. This "In
formal" offer wa discussed lu general
terms at the time, hut the Thompson
romnilttee got the Impress-Inn that the
letter vva burl. d In "secret archive"
of the roiiimissloti hecau-e it was ion
tallied In neither tin- formal nor the
iiiforiii.il llle kept by the cimtnllon.
Col. William In hi tetiit'on that
did lint iMiiceiu the "damn lie" said
he had found that Mavor Gaynor was
opposed to everything that was not In
terhoroiicli and that the .Mayor and the
InterborouKh acted in harmon;..
Kliigsley Martin, former Hiidge Com.
uilssiouer tinili r Mayor G 15 nor, described
for the commlttie how he acted a in-
I termedlary between Maor Gaynor and
the II. It. T. and the luterborotigli In the
negotiation that led to the birth of the
dual subway plan.
President Shout gave moie tetlnioiiy
about his "converlon" of Ma.vor Gay-
1 nor and the transaetloii", iiiiifinune
and agreements which led up to the sign
ing of the dual contract
Itut the wordy warfare nv th.id(i.ved
all these developments. Following the
testimony of Mr. Mm tin and S.vretaiy
Whltnev. Ju-t piwr to the ie , Co!
Wllllanis.ippear.il Mr. .vin asiii-u mm it was also iniim.ueo .11 .o-n-riu)
for a letter which he had written 011 , un clings of tin" Foreign Affaire Coin
M.iv 111 It'll, to William G. Morrisey iiiitt- that the Impression ha been
of 'tin- P.rooklvii boanl of real estate gained by State IVpartment otllclals that
brokers. 111 which lie refi-ired to the ("arran.a Is either dead or a prisoner.
"bran ll nftlce of the Inteiiioruug.i
further up Itio.idw-ay. which rumor has
lmaled lu tin- Ct Hall," 11 ltd meant
Mayor Gan:r"s otilce.
The Trouble Starts.
(VI, William produced It und Mr.
Mos lead It liiiess was do land. The
room began to c.e.u-. but not the atinos
pheic. Mr. Moss an I the i oinnilttie be
gan gathering up papers, Xc. Mi. Mo-
1,111 00 In liat and looked up to llnd
'VI. w""'H;'",.H,t,.1 'V ''""""'",
" ' ! . ,.,
. .' , . 1 ,. .1 vvi , V
.bl the 'L: In ,. ni
' ,. ' ,..,,,.,,, ,.. ..... ..... ......
j '(m6ii , ,,,,, ," K,rll.t
. ountablllt.v you i an 1 sunnier ii". vve
come here with .1 dear 1 onseieuee."
"We are tint 111 the Suith," answered
Mr Mo, "and I won't hit ou In the'
face. I'll Jut " ' " '"ome.ll.in. '
That's what you ate 1.t1 111 g",lt have .
come to me and talked lid thing over I
oleilv. Now that s Impossible. 1 oil ve
tailed in" a - damned liar."
"Theie Is such a thing a self.rejpeit,"
said Col. William. Ill face edilene,l
with excitement "
Mr. Mos tiirni-d on I1I111 " Von linven't
shOWIl self- e.spei"t "
Ily till time eveiy one m tlie loom und
1 (,,, i-orrldor was i.uaie or the fracas
I and crowded around the two men. .Mr.
Moss had begun an exelted pacing up,
and down between tables, turning Io
return Col. Williams's shaft. Co!. Will
iams continued
"I warn .von and have warned jou"
"Voil don't h.ivn Io warn me," letoiied
Mr. Moe. "I get mine every day In the
week I have been up attains! llle big
gest biiii.il of 1 look In New- Yolk ity,
I and I don't nu-iiii tn my ii air 1. ci-ool
f"n. vuilinii
: "You'd better
;e""c. u'll'i. V ve li.'i.n si. k
1 lately, hav e,n ' on Air. Shouts would,,'!
- - do .iiivthlms 111.!' this.
Iliiclt.iu Muxes Fiercer.
.Members of the conunittce Inlet fried
between the two men. ami that scene
ended trinpoliil ll.v. ' ni. vv iiiiain lert 1
with hi i'oIioiis olid Ml'. Moss roiitliini.l (
hi PI epa rations to leave. no uuicey
Nicoll, .lain.' I, iMack.-iihiisli ninl Mr,
Sholltn had gone out 11 few 111 1 11 Ut 1 s
.-alll.-i' belole the wnr. Ilul Just iih Mr.
Moss wes ,'pillig nut, those who 1 i-i 1 1 11 1 ni- I
lielillid III Hi--' loom h.-anl hi volte inlsed
nlinost to 11 Hliout, and saw Ills 111 111 wav
ing excitedly :
"Tin man has called mr a - -
loafer lie won't tell 1111 who be 1.
I oiifi'iinif oa I'AiiUtli Pupi
tVKM'IHIN' NOIITII CAKOI.INA
(llorloil "band nf tile Sivy" lilll.Hle ami
rUgi.nl llutclx, llrawlng ami st.ileriiniii
sleeping en r serviee New York to Aslievllle.
1 N, V Oltli-f, Jilt rtfth Avenue. Air.
PERSHING AND 5,000 TROOPS TO INVADE
MEXICO; WAR AEROS TO HUNT VILLA;
CARRANZA 0UT,0BREG0N IN, IS REPORT
Chief Put in Jail,
Slate Department
Relieves..
ARMY LEADER IN .
CHARGE OF AFFAIRS !
Part of Silliinan's Report
on Carrana's Kale
Deleted.
DETAILS OF THE PLOT
ARE GIVEN. HOWEVER
Hints of Overthrow Sifted
In From Mexico All
Day.
W.VJ.IUNI.TON. March U. full detail
have lieen received by the State Depart
ment of a plot on the part of Gen. Alvaro
... t ..r i Ml ..... r.. -...., i,t
i ..n...;i...tl......ll.t Government of
ho, to overthrow Gen. Carranr-i.
According to the plan Carranza was
' otllclal at the State Department refuse
, to tav. Carran..i'h proposals for rcclp-
I . .......... i .i.. r
.UW.II aCHOll o lll iv". -
the Fnlted States for the pursuit of Villa
u l,..n t-iveii out hv the State Hepartment
ll develop, were not ncoomaiild by the
full information which Sillimiiti himself
stilt In explanation of the situation.
An entile paragraph wa debited It
I tH-lleveil tin paragraph either told of
the arri st of tlie.l'lrht Chief by 1 bn"gou'
follower or iiiiitalnid further details of
"' , 1., . .
Acoordlng to uniUij.tlorib'.e informa-
tlon received to-night from a high otlloi.il
Miutcc. the tine, new of the plot reached
tie" Stat" Iiepartment three week ago.
hlmtiltiiiiinii-Iy with th. dcimtiire of
uliregou from Miitizanll.o, )in tho west
ciiajt. to liuiytua. Sonora, where lie
wa mart .l.
Just before hl departure ie had a
confi reii. e with l.ui Cabrera, a nieinber
ef the Cairanza Cabinet, wlm accompa
nied 1 ibregon to Gu.iyma. From the lat
ter ".own the two men went direct to
Il.iKle Pas. Tex There the two parted,
Obrfgon prnceidlug back into Mexico.
When last luard fiom several da ago
In, was at (.merel.iro. Cabreia Is now
at 111 Paso. . ,
Accnidlng to the plan nf th", con
spirators Carranza w.i to have turn
.11 ivte,l to-dav and thrown Into tirlon.
flloei-OM W.I IO have eltlle
proclaimed
..I .I......I ..rm.i.lnn.il President or named
.mother man. reserving to himself the
right to stand for election as President
Whether the action nf the I'nlted
Slate III deciding to send a force Into
Mexico prevented the culmination of the
roiisplracy .1 planned is not known at
this b mr.
from
time to time that 11 group of General are
now lu control In various sections or
Mexico and that Cairanza had either
1, em Kllleii or neio in 0111 i-s..s or m-j'i in-n
of all power. In till connection. It was
r?!n","Mexh:oO",0BO" " " n'mlnB
1,1 MolU"'
CARRANZA WILL WARN
U. S, OFF, IS REPORT
Senator Hots Confidential .Mes
sime Tliat Firxt Chief
Won't Accept Offer.
U.IIVT,1S, M,rcU . .A nU..,l
Seii.it..,- who ha. kepi .. .lose
. .xi,.,, bonier alTa.is and
I who ha many do".- fm-nds In Mexico
I declared to-day that lie had received a
I conlldi iitl.it Dies...!!." fiom nn oltlcWl j
1 source that Carranza will warn the
I Fnlted Stntes not to enter the southern
..public
I Till Sen. nor loo!. for the pi. sent
eilsi to result 111 Inlet ventlim 111 Mexico
or a b.iikilown on the part of the
Fulled State
Gen. I. Ill lbllela. lately relieved of
(oinin.iiiil of tho northern district of
.Mexico anil called to yin-retnm, wiiere
be 1 In dlieit t.nnli with G'-n. ( ar-
raii7.i. I aiitl-Ainerlcali and Is ald to
be hiuli In the esteem of ' arran.a
Carran.a. I lis
have It effect
llillilence Is expeclul to
on the First Chief It i known that
lii urge C. Cut rot hers, spec.al agent of
.1,.. ,..1., 1 1. o.ii 1 01e.11 at ill P.iso. ha
infill Hied 111 Government III a message,
I 1V'' t" th" Ca.ranls.a- if It
I M"l-J '''OJ-rrP-iKe
WILSON AT NEWPORT NEWS.
xrrle
- Walk
1111 VI11) Itinver, l akes n
11111I lletiirn. tu 11el1f.
.Voiiroi.u. a. Match 11 -After walk-
11,1: two mile through tlie business i.inl
iihidi-ntlal hcctlon of Newport News
t'll iittellioon the Plesideiit and Mrs,
Wiboii air mi lioiird th" in-lit May
Power lo-nlglit, vv Inch Is anchored off
old Point Comfoit
Piesldeni Wilson irielvrd several
vi.cles messages und scanned manv
rew-spipeis In search of Ihe latest news
from Mexiio, lie will come iishole at
1 1I1I Point Comfoit to-moirow and Mart
I on the irtuiii nip to Washington about
o'clock In the arternis.n.
I'lOHIIIA ( AIIOI.INA BKMORTM
Four nt.el tn.lm vis ahart line tn best
resnrl. hauourd Air l.loa, ll( Uraadwar.
WARNING TO KEEP OUT
SEEN IN CARRANZA NOTE
WASHINGTON, March 11. A note from Gen. Cairanza, slpned
by Secretary of Foreljm Affairs At-unu, wits, presented to the State
Department to-duy. The First Chief ahks permission to send Mexi
can troops across the United States border to "capture Villa."
Nothing was said by Carranza as to the note of the United States
telllnif him that United States troops were Roinu in to get Villa.
The note from Carranza was interpreted in various ways by the
Government oflicials.
A prominent Senator saw in it an attempt to warn the United
States that Carranza will refuse to agree to let American troops come
into Mexico. This Senator also had private communication from
Mexico that this was just what the First Chief intended to do. He
predicted armed intervention.
A despatch teceived from Los Angeles says that Carranza will
notify the State Department that if troops are sent into Mexico they
will have to fight the Curranzlstas as well as Villa.
Advices from Kl l'aso and other border points say that it is the
opinion of army olllcers that the delay in going into Mexico is duo
to the possibility of huving to fight Carranza, therefore reenforcements
would have to be gathered.
NOT A U. S. TROOPER ,
OVER BORDER YET,
1
M-hVuitillj; t SPP if Tllt .MllSt
l-Mirlit CiiiTiin.a Too.
Is Report.
WOI LII XEKIl M0HK MEXXKWS" TO COL. IIUl'SB
lit. Pjvso, Tex.. March 11. Although!
activity has been in progtess all day In
Fort Hll.ss and the army camps at HI I
l'aso for field duty, not a move has
been made to-night in the dltectlnn of
Mexbo wltli any armed force. Gen.
Pershing, the offlier selected to com
mand the punitive expedition, referred
all Inquirer to the War Iiepartment at
Washington.
The only organization hei" known
positively to have received ord'-rs to
go with the expedition Into Mexlio 1
Company 1 of the Signal Corps, a Held
witch- outtlt It is also known tint
the battalion of engineer at Fort Sam
Houston ha been ordered to entrain
to-night for Kl l'aso for Held service
Telephone message from Columbu-i,
N M the hceiie of the raid Thursday
morning, state Unit the Thlrltenth Cav
alry statlonr"! there has not received
any order further than to hold Itself
111 read.net Camp had not been biol.en
to-ulght.
lieu. Fuiistnn is reported lo-nlght as
s'lll at San Antonio. He has not reached
here. It !k said that he will niaki, head-
iiu.irtel ;
it 111 l'aso when lien. Perh;tir
, leads the troops into Mexico.
Must
villi I Mure
allowing the
T roopn.
Without allowing the use of their
name olllis-r say .t will not be poss.ble
to move the troops now here into Mex
ico until tiooji arrive fiom Interior
points In Uie I'nlted States to take
their places lu guarding l'.l l'aso and
other border points.
Then- uie hints that tin" I'nlted State
Is not prepared to cany out Its plans for
enteiliig Mexlio l.-miis." of l.u-k of
troop and that In the event of pro-
I tests from C.iriauva and any show of re
1 hlstauoi on tin pan of his forces It
. . . . ,,.u
; " ' b..'i ile.l
' orfh'b'l was' Vvvn"'.!..
morning by Fnit.d State Consul 1M-
ward to Gen. Gavlra of the Juarez gar
rison that American troops would enter
Mexico In put suit of Villa and that the
.movement of troop would he In friendly 1 can turmoil of reis.ni jean, and which
I aid of the coiistlliilert authorities. , they could not expect to collect without
Gen. Gavlra tefu-ed to comment upon conlll, -ting with the Monroe Poctrlnc.
I the coinintiimiit.oii othii than 10 say I in-. Wellington lino, the Chinese
'that til- matter wis 1 for tint F'tst 1 Minister, i said to have taken 11 lead-
',.i,lrf mg part In some of the negotiations
I ".Mi official w e Iron. Ger. l.uis Gut.- While lVding H.. II .y it will be ex
1 errez. C,..,slttttlnn..lit con.n. ..id. r 1.1 ! treim ly ilim; iilt to n..r..xlrn..tP 1 rlc-
I'hlhualui.i. to Gen. Civlra to-dav n.itid
hut lie felt the Caitanza force were
a.leiiiale to cope wilh Villa nui! to pre-1
I Vent any letie.lt ll llllll and li s I'uliesj
Into southern Chlhu.iliu.. The i-oiinntl-1
, i.lcat.on said thnt then" are ?'in C.n
, nniza troop n..w In the San 1 ieroiumo
disttict. ,11111 tn Satitu Clara, ."iiu 111 tin"
I Gucrreto district, 3i''l between Laiiuuna
I and Saiu ..nd J"" in icr.ve to be sent
In whatever direction w.is deeiin d best
Vll'.a, It whs slid, was between As-en-slou
and .lano to-d-.y und Gen. H'lialil,
wlio Is coiidii.-tlng the 1 a 111 1 1.1'. 1; 11 aga.nsl
I1I111, was .11 P.iloinas. aooiil I'o.l". ipi."
Iioitll of Villa's p.isitluti.
Midrras Gaicia, C11 r.ui.i .'.in-ill in Kl
Paso, les.gll.-ll to-day, glvb.g 110 le.l-oll.
hut asserting Hut lie is still 11 strong
lldVOillle of till' Constltlltioliill.st .'..Use.
Thursday the Consul made Hie stab-
mint that he .ltd not beileve IPs Gov -
ornineiit would nt.Ject to American Puces
jToshig into Mexico after Vl.ln. lie
j dci-lmcd to state lo-d.iv wliethei till had
.,v minecUoli with h.s r'si'l.ii, 011
I'rrshliiK Gives Nollrr.
o n .101111 ,1 ii-ie.ioK. o
.igllin iniiiniy iitiK-ni', on m 1
j pat
h.;,.
patrol duty here. Issued the billow 1111",
ilenieill to-d.i.v which was tinn-I.itril
ii ml sent to the .lu.uez olliciils;
It should be deeply tmpresieil upon
everyhod.v that the only piup.M' of
the entiy or Amel Hall It nop lilt"
Mexico ill this, time I the pinsult
ami .upline of Villa ami his baud
of In Ig.lllll.
It Is 11 liiosi fr.eli.ll lot of assist,
anee on our part. This should be
fully iciognlzeil by nil true I'licuN
ol I lie de fin'to Government of boiii
sides of the lim
it is no Htm- to indulge ill Idle
tla-oin'S alsnil Invasion. I 1; I x . t!i
Mexican puiplc loo much milt lor
10111111011 sense to think tliev will inn
gladly n.-rcpt our aid In rl'ilitliat.ng
an iuteiii.illoii.il outlaw.
While pieparatiotis for 1 ie invasion
of Mexico to riiptuto Villa ale undr
way prrraiillon nr.. being taken to
glial .1 the American 011 the border
Cco.liNuerf on Strand Pay
WILSON SEEKING TO
BUY UPPER MEXICO?
('L'lTtlllV I.!lllsilli' Dct'llllOS
till; Kcpoils of Such n
I'ian Are False.
Washington, March 1 1. Iteports that
the Culled State Government Is jdati
nlng to purchase the northern part o
of
Mexico reached Washington to-night
llom two source.
In Philadelphia the P,iblir l.riiyrr pub
Ilhed III detail the outline of such a
plan and declared that It wa prepared
to buck up Its new In the face ot any
olllcial denial.
In Chicago a similar report was
printed lu the ,"i nnomlet.
Secretary of State 1-insilig gave a
prompt and uiuiiMlllled denial to the re
poit win 11 he was railed up by tele
phone l'iuiii:i riiti. .f.iivli II The i'lildic
l.rihirf will print to-morrow- under a
Washington date the following:
Humors that have l.eii current In
Wall Stieet, leading financial circle of
other centre and 111 political and diplo
matic groups that the Administration
contemplaP-il a gigantic stroke 111 pur
chasing the northern section of Mexico
and that Col. II M House really went
to Ilurope to "sound" certain govern
ments In thi regard have arrived at a
state of potentiality at least, according
to authoritative sourer.
TJieplan, it issulil. 1 topuiehase all of
Mexico that Is no' tti of a dlrisi'. IIik." drawn
went from the south) ily oiitliirt of the
city of Tampion and Including the entire
Ui'wer California peninsula.
Oil. House, who reci-ntl.v rnuiliied
from .1 trip nbro.ul a the special rcpre
sentative of President Wtl.son. did nut In
any wise discus jieace priosal, it Is
now learned fiom .1 sourer that cannot
! doubted,
on the is.nti-aiy, l.e 1 said to have
made inuulry of leading htateniiun of
Gi-iat Itrltalii, France, Germany, Spain
and i.:lier nation as to what their at
titude would be In ea.-e the Fnlted Stales
made such an otfer to Mexico.
From this same source ll I learned
that tl." Hiirope.iu Powers as a unit
igned tint hUiil a move would not olil
h- agreeable to them but tven pleasing,
lor It would Insure tlmr being relin-
biitsed for losses sustained III the Mexl-
,,,l""",,"r . "
chase, the tentative tlglire agn.d upon
for the bash- effoit will be about $300.
OUQ.onn and uioiv".
Itipuhlic.iii i.-inlii-s s.i that they are
forcul to admit that such .1 move n the
part of the Wilson Administration would
be a "msihver stroke" on the eve of the
Pie-identlal e'.ei-tioii and that no Itepuh
Hoiiii could hardly oppese tile plan
Thn two piinWli.il ol.J.st that Inte-est
all st.it. Mlien ill tin" plan 1 tna' tlie
move will prevent ai.v "streviiltig" of
the Monioe lM.-irltie and at the same
time make till nation se, me in that all
chances for a foielgu i'uve- establish,
-.ng a naval base .,11 the Pa Hie "uj.'tt
will be a futilie l"nioibll tv.
ClIli'VOil, M,ll 11 lie" ; . onoii.lsr.
a weeklv llii.iln- 11 1 puhl.iMtloi
print in
that th
1 this week s-le .1 .
1 Washington Adn lustration ih-lti to
1 puicliase lai'n-r than teize the noitliein
half of Mexii". l H .tin". !t I stated,
went to Hurope to fie! out the 1.111
' pean I'oweis on the piuplt on
I The i-.i.lio.iiil 11 eiit.on that tl
ie 1 1
pmt 1 uiin s tioiii a Intnl. aiiinoi 11.un
soiiiie "ual tne Ailmliiistiniloll ha !u
' band .. plan p,nc!':io the iioitll li.ili'
of MiXICO. tiolg.lllle the IMIIIltiy ll.nl."!
oil' il.etlloils of gov el'lllllel.t i.lld .'slab
I li-n ."'.ice it, a'l Cat part of the present
'tepllbll.' Ill wh.rll Allan ..OS ,11. Ilio-l
llltelvsleil.
'(.'ill. House in He Knims X0II1-
Inu M1011I II,
C ... IS. .M. Il.illse Win II ipie-l one,) by
telephone lute last mgiit i.g.ildliig the
lepnite.l plan to nui'i'liaM' i.oitheiu
Mexico n plied' "It's news ,0 1111 I
know nui lung aoo'it il '
NO TAX ON BANANA EXPORTS.
I.eulsliil.lre of .III 1. til In. nles lloti 11
I'riipiiseit Miiiiri.
i,,! 1 ,ii,i, lit '. .. Tin. .-.
Kimis'ion. .I.i in. i . a. .Ma oil I ,
pi-ii,osed t-xpoi't tax n banal.. i.,i
Irjected by the Legislature t,..la.
Tho Governor by proclamation slated
that the ex pott of fustic to the United
States will be allow n! In the future
Carranza Willing to Aid,
but Asks Right to
Cross Border.
FUNSTON TO GUARD
AGAINST UPRISING
Resistance Would Be Met
by General Invasion.
Wilson's Plan.
VANGUARD TO AVERT
MORMON MASSACRE
Seventh Cavalry in Lead
Three 3Iore Regiment
Ordered South.
WabIHMitoN, March 11. Hctweetl
C.000 and 6,000 American troops, under
the personal command of Hrig.-Qan.
John J. I'crshlng, ure 111 readinc to
cross the Mexican bound.. line In
pursuit of Francisco Villa.
Hxaet Information an to thu move
ments of the United Statcn aimy of
invasion Is being withheld under thu
strictest pocssible censorship.
Hcforo leaving tho War Ucpartment
ut 10:40 o'clock to-night Secretary of
War Halter announced that no definite
1
report had yet been received from Uen.
l-'unston that the troops had crossed
the border.
He further announced t'.ul the War
Department had Issued urdera to-night
for three additional regiment. of cav
alry to proceed ut once to the border
and place themselves under the order
of Gen. Fuiistnn.
The rrglmcntM ordered aro thn Klrat
from .Monterey, Cut.: the Klevrnth from
Fort Oglethorpr, Georgia, anil tho
Fifth from Fort Hoblm-oii, Nebraska.
The Fifth Cavalry, parti of which are
at Fort Myer, Washington. D. C. Chi
cago and Fort I.ruvriivvortli, were or
dired to hold theim.rlvr. iii readiness.
The order were Issued at the request
of Gen. Fiitiston. The troops will
move n.s rapidly it train service can
bo obtain!. 1.
(ini Miinilrn Iteildj.
Grn. Funstoii rcporteil tint the
nrtny uer.. Mtiiidron of r.ght aero
plane. hud been ordered to Columbus,
N. M.. from Fort Sum Houston, Texas.
Th.; aircraft will opciato from Colum
bus. The State Ocpurtment v...s .'olvi.-ed
to-night that Villa is located with h!n
forces at Ascension, forty 111. Irs .south
of Coliimlitut.
Tlie sliitemnit .11 press despatches;
from San Antonio, accredited to
Major-Gen, Frederick II. I'luieton, to
the i-ffrct tliat the r.xpi (llllnn would
not be organized for two or three ilu.vs
Is believed In otliclul circle her :r
represent mi effort on th" olllcers' part
to throw Villa off hi. guard.
Members of Congr.s. who i-.illed at
the War and Statu department, how
ever. Were told privately that Ihe
understanding Is that the vanguard ot
the forces got under way early to-day,
und Mime nf the troops are believed to
have already cro-sci the border
"lev r 11 lb I iivalr.v In I, mil,
I'lotll private i.d' well Informed
itiattrii the information conn to
lllglit thnt Hi, expedition Is being
he.ule.l by the Seventh Cavalry, which
wero moved I'af'.y thl morning from
Huchltj to CulbersonV It.imh, which
touches the bolder at the N.UthWMt
crn conic" of New Mexico. From this,
point a wagon trail leads directly out
ward to AsreiLslon, Mexiio where Villa
troop were last tiportril The ob
jective of the pr. Imiin.iry toru Is
Ulnii'tstood to be the v I. it. ily of dim-
(ifunilrs. where ,',on Anient an Mot-
111. 111. a:e ni.llootlril.
I'unsion I In siipieiiie 1 oiiimaii.!
Having iiitlim i.rii him last night to
put hi tioops In motion, tin- War He
paitinrnt appear s.iti-le. that the
tils ulll. 1. 1. icpnrt ot He nun, on w.ll
not lu -.1.1 iniiil Ml . l inger is pnt nl
the . b'l. iii- of llii- plan of campaign
becoming known to Villa
At-coi.lt .g tn ,iiitlioi-nn:nr iiifotina
Hon obi. ilneil t i-nighi I'tim-ton si sr.!.'
Itlstriiclioii npp 11 rnilv iiir in lie:
Villa. I low H e task is to be lircolll-
.lili.-.l bus I o h-fi io lie olllcii
llllllself. Whose II. line 11 I In . Hilly Wil-s
iii.nl by li.s -hub 'i.miiiii sucr. -a in
caplilliiu Agiiln.ililo. Ii.mI'I- of tho
Filipino .iisiinr.i"i..ist.-
I n r .'it ti it Not I'r.irr.l,
i .lb. ,.ili of , lii M.iit I 'eputiiiiei,, ap
pear sntlslleil tli.it for 1'ir pre.-, in ni
In. st their is no ii.iiii.ii of ..itlvo In
tel f.i il''c on ill" p it'' of ' '.Ili'llllK...
To-d.i.v the I ii-p,ii-lni.-:i! iicrlv.-.l fi'iipi
C.tiriiliZ.i lli.mmn Col-sill John II. Sl
Ptnaii at ' '.ll lat.Kii'.- 'io.n.il:iti"l s al
I in, ol. il. i.l.H I n 1 iihii! mi'" nckuiiui
nlgiiig iris i.i of in,',.' ni.ttloit II'.iiii tl,r
I'll, Sint.s .''.in "I'H'llg tin plll po-'e-'
of tip i .iP'-illte'ii. Although pel mis
-,nl .. 'Hull link. Mi i'ii"lll loll vv
..o; ...-lied bv 1 1 , , , r 1 1 1 1 i i . , i'ui
1.11111 1 'X --''ll . "I'l. - I Hil.
,, i - ,l , ,.i . 1I'U tin i '. i- w ii . I
I'o .ii up" i I " "I' t r i i-iir .
In pills IO nf V.IV l.l.y ' nli
territory nf ' in
The pt'i'i.o.' i I ... i
i
