REAL ESTATE FOR SALE, TO
LET, EXCHANGE OR WANTED
Situations, Help Wanted and Other
Wants, See Section Seven
ALL SORTS OF ADS FOR
ALL SORTS OF PEOPLE
See Times-Dispatch Want Pages for a
Service of Unequalled Value
66th YEAR ?? RICHMOND, VA., SUNDAY, MARCH 12, 1916.?SIXTY-FOUR PAGES. "a?*? eb? FAIR PRICE, FIVE CENTS
SESSION OF 1916
General Assembly Divests I
Itself of A flairs of State ?
After Strenuous Term.
PROHIBITION ACT IS
ITS CHIEF HANDIWORK
Also Gave State Its First State
Wide Game Law and Tor
rens System.
pr.it ri:< ti:o tax skokkgatiox
Merchant ?< Win Their Against
IVoposeil Increase in Stale
Licenses.
After h continuous session of sixty
day?. which will eo down In history
hooks hs thf- ureat ?'moral reform ses
sion of 1 f? 1 r." the General Assembly,
?t l.T.O o'clock this root nine. divested
Itself of the affairs of State that have
borne hfivlly on its shoulders for
many days, and adjourned pine d'.e, to
meet a Rain In January, 191*.
The closing scenes were tn? most1
riotous that have been witnessed In
the Capitol in a generation. For hours ,
ihf llousi* and Senate waited in their
chambers for the report of a commit
??e that fought behind closed doors
n\.r the Senate amendments to the
.impropriation hill, only to enter at. mid
night upon i prolonged contllct that
thre:itcned to develop Into :in absolute
deadlock
I.IIM. IT.ItlOll OK \V\ITIMi
hiii M'nuiriuATioN nil.i.
At 11? o'clock both houses had acted
finally on every bill susceptible >jf
sage at thin stace of the session,
ir-1 had combed at.'l renombed the
? tjend.it s fo~ possible omission*. Then
-ante a period of waiting for the ap
propriation bill report, which, as the
.-.our1- wore on without news from t:.e
?ommittee-room. ?rew more and more
? lotou*1. culmipatlnK toward the er.il
:i revelr\ wheh the presiding officers
?'??k no pat:.> to :? ii ppi es -,
Maid metnbe's from the Senate, ac
ompani?mI by a motley crowd of pa^es.
? on-.mittee clerks. Janitors, lobbyists
and legislative hangers-on, formed a
battalion that i waded the House with
t rati " is rendition of "How fir? I \ia"'
Th* re ens'j< d a e of wild dir-or ?
del Delepates .ir.d paper! ;?:.d House
?ittM-'ies ce:/-<1 the bulky bill fo'.-o*
indt-r each member's desk, and ir
minute the white folders filled the r
from wall to wall When this at: ;
nitiofi was exhausted after a furlo.i
'tr? "f flft? ei minutes. the belligerents
'?sorted to books and waste basket?.
? ?.<>< i\ i- i ( it n i> n \ i k
\ V HOI It \ Ml \ II \ I.I -
When the battle subsided. the ilnur
was covered with a ?arpet of bill.
papers
At 11 o'cloc". Pelega'e llcatt;. . f
Henrico, ascended to the g:il1er> and
urned the clock back an hour ..i .?
anlf When midnlcht struck and th.-r.
waf- 'till jio news from the coi ifi.-m e
? omiaitt," . Speaker Hou.-ton called
Delegate Meetse, of Prince William, to
?lie chair at.'l '-tossed the ?"a p '??! t(?
? onf* r with the Senate loader
The committee report eiideil . wait,
which was rapidly emptying tin <'api-:
??->1 and depleting the bare <{oor;i:i that
em-fined oil guard to pass the appro
priation bill. There followed another
t rylnc hour, while the Senate and
House adjusted differences ever the
?eport of the conferees When ti e final
vote was talceti at 1 .IP' o'clock this
uorning only the bare constitutional
Majority was or hand i' ether house
?o tide the General A-.--. -inbly over the i
i "St crttcial roll call of the sessbm. :
*?i:ssrn\ oi <Ti'ii'.s
pi;i i 1.1 vit mi iii; |
In the Valhalla of Virginia legisla
tures, the * Seueral Assembly of I Mil
will occupy a peculiar and separate
niche. Klecteo on the prohibition
issue, it was < xpeeled to perfect and
;.iake law the will of tho people aE
???{pressed in the enabling-act referen
dum of September IT. lf>14. The Mnpp |
bill, driving from Virginia sotl stimu
lants and beverages tiuit have been In
dally use in the Commonwealth since
John Smith mailed up the James to the I
foot of Third Street, will for all time
stand as Its distinctive creation.
To the framing of this piece of legls- !
Kit ion, the leaders of both houses gave j
many valuable weeks. While its limits .
were marked out in large part by the i
Atiti-Saloon I.cngiie. and some of its
provisions savor of compromises and ;
'?oueesBlons to expediency, the bill that ?
will transfer Cavalier Virginia to the:
Sisterhood of Arid American Common- i
wealths Is regarded as an enactment ,
f unquestionable workmanship.
I'l'JirKCmil) I'AHTIAI.
SKI ill 13OATIOX SVSTKH |
The General Assembly of 10U> will
tlso lav claim to a large .share i>f
red It for perfecting: the system of
>.'t rt ia 1 segregation crea ted hy the
< pedal session of the year before.
Kace?l at the opening with the Clov
rnor's warning' that the State will
'?e confronted in 191" hy :i deficit of
ipproxlinately $l.f>00,00rt unless addi
i<inal revenues arfi provided, the law
?alters addressed themselves promptly
0 the unpleasant tasl< of recasting
existing tax laws so as to increase the
? 'ommonwealth's Incoirie.
This duty the General Assembly per
formed thoroughly and well. Refore
1 adjourned yesterday, it had given
if final approval to practically every
-evenue measure of importance that
had been recommended by the State
Wlvisory Board on Taxation, and half
a dozen others which it drew and
nassed without the board's assistance
The application of the new revenue
laws, in the opinion of men well versed
(Continued on Seventh. Page.)
Captain Furnival
Is in City Jail
Commiltcd for Contempt, Fol
lowing Failure to Pay Alimony
Ordered by Chanccry Court.
r-?iptalri Itlchard Furnwal. pending
his application for a writ of appeal in
divorce proceedings brought against
liim by l.i.i wife. Mm. Mary Furnwal.
a daughter of Judge Kdmund Waddill,
Hi's I'nlted .States District Court
for tin: Faster/, District of Virginia, In
l'C-1 up- held In tin* City Jail, having been
?sent to that Institution on Frldav from
'he Chancery Court of the city of Rich
mond.
In the divorce proceedings. Furnwal
was ordered to pay ullrnony. lie rioted
?n appeal to the ?Supreme Court He
arraigned for contempt of court I
on Friday, when, It is alleged, he failed
lo pay the alimony, and placed in
chaige of Sheriff .1 Ilethert M-rrer.
who Kent him t<> jail.
I' was stated > the jmi i.t>, llljfh.
U .it It was ?..,t I. .'.own iiow Ioiik Furn
wal would he kept i? th;it ir,ht ttut lor
1 he aetfon for divorce proceed!ngs
lav pending in the <'han<'rv;
Court since last August.
LEMTIIE APPHOVAL
Governor am] State ,\?i visor*
f'?rr.v livery INseniial
Point.
N'o MOKK SPKCTKIi ()l 1)1.1 It IT
Only Dent Is Failure to c,nn Pro
posed BelieduIf of Merchants' Li
censes?Hills .\re Prepared to Per
fort Segregation S>?tem.
Practically withon* ; . hange.
the General AM?inbl its final hours!
>esterday. .-or np..? . ... , t:l:ent Into
.aw f.f t?," . 1%,-iue program
sponsored J., lhr.
Advl* T , xa'.toii
????'?? t wa? made
,,v "" ? who - ucceil.-i :t,
forcing . , . \ f um tin* advisorv
hoard's |.i"- .i!. i the jinal ratl
tieatiot* <? . ,.f the amended
Seriate bill which carried Into eiTect
r-\"r\ detn-1.. ide hv the mercantile
inteie-r ?
v" ' ?' '???? ' Jen era 1 Assembly
"f ? ? < ws will more- than
' '''?* dot!i it w) (ch
luom.d !:;> 1-17 This was the
?l'' ?'? iv 11? <>f prominent tnem
!" II<.tj?e and Sena'. Finance
"" 1 1 avc Kive:i practically
? Mi." during th<> p.nt four
it :? ? sr. ?? st (.f t he
Mat. ?. ?: ... needy
mi,i.* imii:i>\iti:i?
\kti:u n.iiM: v 11 uy
? 'l.e session S, nAte
Fitian. . < ornmittee began work on the
t?rop'i.-if| revenue measures. giving
'r'l-.T.L- after h?-arit.i.'. aid holding ?x
... utiv.. se.-sior: after -xectitlve session.
*1*1" ?* Impression wer.T abroad that the
>t:i ' ?- fiii.in.Mal * >?: -It', .ti tv.is deplora
ble
Weeks passed and few tax bills found
their way f<> tl.?- .londar ! , -he mean-,
time * II o i. s ?.* tnatlved tltm Then,
urged o?? h'. t!:.% ? ;.? \ ?-r::c>r. th?* l"i na r. ,
Conitnittef .s ,.f r?.o two houses tam.-d
eai-h a s u hcnmii > it tee. the two to ?..rk '
Jointly in the prcpa rut ion i>f I.i1j> sup
plementary and < oinplementarv f<> those
ahead-, repo-t.d This joint commit-1
? ep jni't two or ?};. .? 'itnrs- :i ,j;t % ;-.,r
several da* s. usuall\ In the olflce f.f
the rjovernor elsewhere. l? consul
tation With Atnii- ? ? Moore and oth. rs.
I.ater A Mfi st a n t Attorney-General f!ar-'
nett u as called in and hi- assistance'
in the actual preparation of the bills i
secured.
The result w,.s the introduction In
l'ie Mouse of a dozen measures designed
to raise taxes from new sources, to I
provide moans for the collection of j
taxes already imposed, to cnlnrse I lie
powers of tiie state Tax Board, to place
examiners of records directly under the
control of thai hoard, and otherwise to
raise revenue and extend and strength
en the segregation system of taxa
tion.
w ? ? k
sKcrni-: \i-:\\ iii:\i:m n
r-'KOll IMIKKIT.i M !?: T\\
I ti tli" mea ntlme the Senate worker]
on inn or tlir<*?> Senate sax bills not
affected by those in the House. and
for tli" last four days of the session
taxation was tlic tople of discussion
ami the basis of action iri both Imuscs,
with local ami general bills of another
nature taking potltiek atul bftim dip
posed of at odd moments when time
could he fotiml.
The chief new source of revenue
found was inheritances Senate ami
House agreed all hut unanimously on
tho principle, to w to Virginia, of a
direct Inheritance tax. The railroad
and canal corporations and the heat,
light and water companies were also
called upon to furnish their share of
the additional revenue, needed to meet
the impending estimated deficit for
1017 of more than
Perfection of the machinery for the
collection of omitted taxes and the act
placing all examiners of records under
the State tax hoard are relied upon to
furnish a large portion of what is not
supplied from these two sources, a few
smaller revenue measures doing the
rest of the needed work.
IIKVKM'K ft I l.l.S or
skssiox of-' in id
The chief direct revenue hills passed
hy the Legislature of lo 1 <*?. from which
the State hopes to raise additional rev
enue sufficient, to ohviate any danger
of a deficit, are:
The act increasing the franchise tax
on railroads and canal corporations
from 1 1-S to 1 1-1 per cent on gross
Income.
The direct inheritance tax placing
a graduated tax on inheritances In
excess of
The "omnibus" tax hill, prepared hy
the subcommlttees, placing an income
(Continued on Fifth Page.)
CLOSING SCENES
Conferees on Appropriation Bill
Strike Out Item for Prohibi
tion Department.
PROMPT PROTEST RAISED;
Bill Goes Back to Conference,
and. After Correction, Is |
Adopted at Late Hour.
I
I?HM-o. (llfcrcnfn between the
j Hon ;t 11?] -.-njito with reference to a
j iii tin appropriation hill ]
II',!< v. ?' . <: r:r:?1 Assembly Into the
j v- " "M'l- fit. t "?:;?? |? hus 'Mpi'rl
' 'h- ? in a period In viirs.
Xot !!? Til : ::?? o'clock this mornlnir did
;?r- t . t- f.i. t.oris lay down tlielr
an - ii'.I r .v- t'i:r Joint concurrence
" "*tate ? ? ? i?Itr?-* oarrylnp approprla
i .. :<?LT<'uatlru approximate!** sir,.
I i.i. f i.i.n
j .'"ollotvitir the perfunctory reference!
of i ? ?. amendments attached l?y tho i
" '* the J lows? bill to a confer
? "niniltt****, t h** I wo - settled
? u to ;i \crarv wait for the conferees'
r It arrived at midnight, and
the House. :.fl*r a brief explanation j
ironi Delegate Brewer, one of the con- j
ferees. concurred in the report without
debate.
In tli? Senate the report of the con
ferees raised a storm of protest. j{S
particular Inspiration lay !n the fact j
that rb.? conferees had stricken from ?
the bill the liny ? ppropt iation that
the Senate had Included for expenses
Incident to the administration of the'
-Mapp prohibition bill.
)IA( iiim:hv j.-oii i: \ i?i:.M)i i i hi-;
not i\ i11111111iirr111\ hii.i,
1 iie appropriation had been inserted
at the instance of prohibition leaders
j who foresaw a possible ditliculty in
sot urliin the release of the appropria-'
Hon carried by the prohibition bill
because thr.t measure doe. r??,t piC-i
scribe the n<tuul machinery nf ex-!
pendlture The amount was directly
appropriate d n the budu?*. to avoid a
' Contingency of this character
When th-> siate ie;irneii fto.-n it.s
conferees that tin- appropriation had
been s*rick?:t? ou' it registered an in
-t.ii.t protest. Senat'rr ijoolrick moved
that th. Senate refuse to accept the
I conferee-, fepozt. and the motion was
supported a spirited speech i,:. sen
ator Mapp w .-in announced his intention
to - ; ill tiiuhr until the amount w is
brought hack into the lull.
I d<> not ruopose after devoting six
wee< of the hardest Kind of work to
t;ie prohibition bill." --aid Senator '
Mapp. "to vote now for .? conferees'
j report u hi. h strikes from the appro-'
priat'on bill ?he Item upon which may
depend the whole success of that law."'
It I .I, \ It II llll |v?|(| \
V v si;?{in j s i:ii itoit
Tl.? >aii!r- stand u taken by Sena
< ' anion and Chairman ijarrett, of
'he l-'it;a.*'??? I'liitunitii-C', who expressed
' t. r convi.-t ion tha* th<- - nission of
t ii - ?' f-.:emei:t of the prohibition biil.
cv. n th'.uch it 1114} never be nee(
j?i be a serious error, others arose
?" V"!. > tl.etr dissatisfaction with tin
conferees- report, a I'd President I0ll>--on
put S' it at or i ji >o! ric U's motion M-fusing
to concur In the report and callinc for
a recommittal of the bill.
t\ ith the cjoc'ii turned bad an hour ,
and a half to show that the sanctity of
the Sabbath was not beintj violated.,
and in the midst of the most profound i
babel that 'he chamber had heard in
.< dozen y?ars. tie Senators voted over
whelminclv t?? reject th, conferees
port House members who had waited
inipa t ieiit I v in the Senate chamber for
the concurrent action which would re.
lease them from the. early morning
hour attendance upon the Legislature,
rushed back to the other end of tiie
Capitol lo join the disheveled and hi:- ?
patient Mouse quorum.
11)1.1. I.OKS IIA ( l\ TO
skconh com-'kh i:\ci-:
Spon I; ?? r lloiifslon announced the
tie-up, :< 11? 1 in a mititit<> tin- House
agreed to a recommittal of tin- con
ferees' report. VI >?? ronf.'rops wore
Delegates iiri'M'cr, Hohson and I'itts,
| nnd Senators Garrett, Cannon atui
Gaylc. Having sensed in advance the
i onrushinjr contiict, the members had
: reaclic<l ,hii agreement to i>isr hack into
the 1 ? i 11 t lie {2*1,000 in controversy.
The committee retired, ami in ton
: minutes returned with iis amended
repent.
The House, already impatient with
t hours of enforced idleness, polled its
I entire remaining strength for the
, amended report, too weary in mind and
[body to prolong the contest. In the
?Senate the amended report was adopt -
1 oil with only four votes registered in
the negative Doth houses had pre
viously passed the main appropriation
bill and the adoption of the conferees'
report meant the final approval of th?
"hill in its entirety.
kinai. \i>.iorit\Mi:\T
CO.tlKS OV SUNDAY lltlltMNC
As amended, the bill carries a special
appropriation of S-.'.OmO for each of
the two years, for the administration
of the prohibition law. The same ag
gregate appropriation of $50,000 Is pro
vider! by the Mapp bill, the Item in the
budget measure merely making certain
| that no difficulty will be encountered in
its expenditure.
| The bill that had precipitated the
[General Assembly Into the worst jnin
blo that it has experienced in many
| years was passed, and the tension was
|over. Hoth houses adjourned for pood
; within live minutes after p?ace was
[declared. The House clock read ten
i minutes to 12. The Senate clock read
j two minutes to 12. The Sabbath, ac
cording to Capitol time, had not yet
[broken. The clock In the City Hall
? tower, unacquainted with the tricks of
j legislative bodies, read thirty-five min
utes past 1.
Churchill to .loin IteRluienl.
| 1 .ONDON', March 11.?Colonel Winston
Spencer Churchill, who had an inter
view with Premier Asquilh on Sat
urday, has finally decided his place, is
with his regiment, according to Uey
nobls's Weekly. Colonel Churchill, Hie
newspaper adds, is understood to have
loft for Franco early this morning.
HALT IN OFFENSIVE
French Report No Recent At
tempt at Infantry Action on
Part of Germans.
GAIN BY SAXON REGIMENTS
Ground Won About Two-Thirds
of Mile Deep Along 1,400-Yard
Line in Champagne.
The German offensive for th? time 1
being has xlackiincd In the Verdun re
glon. Tli e French official report an-,
nounces that th?*r? has bcon no recent !
attempt at infantry action on the part'
of tTt?? Germans along the whole of the
front.
f>ii *h? east hank of the Metise. the'
region around Douatmiont Is being .sub
jected to ji heavy bombardment, but j
on the rest of the center and Jn the :
Woevre the b'ihs site not working so i
actively, and oti 'he western ban it of
the Meuse, In that section from Itethin- j
court to the Cote-Ue-I/Ole. the artll-j
Jery duel has l>e?n comparatively tin -
Important. In that region the Ger
mans claim to have retaken most of
the '.'oriieaux wood, the possession of
which Is likely to prove a factor In an
attack on the Cote-de-I/Ole. the Ger
mans a!?o holding hilt 2C5. to the north- j
east of thai Important strategic .
position.
Describing the German attacks on i
the French trenches west of Douau
mont on Friday. ihe ofllclal statement}
of the French War Ottice says that j
the Germans three times, in columns
of four. rushed forward to the assault,
but were mowed down by artillery and
machine-gun fire. Tliey were forced
to retire, "leaving the ground cov
ered with dead bodies."
SAXON KKtd.MK\1s (iAI.\
ON II Fiiovr
Saxon regiments. by a sudden thrust
hi 'he Champagne, at a point where '
there have been few breaks in lite ,
routine of trench warfare for several
months. ha\'' captured positions over
a considerable section of the French
front. The German War Office an
nounces that ih?- ground gained is
about two-thirds of a mile deep along
1.40ft yards of front, and that several
guns and more than TOO prisoners were
taken.
The attai-k was made at a point
near Rh'-itos some distance west of
the scene of the la?t previous German
assault in the Champagne. There have
been no indications thus far that the
Germans have attempted to follow up
their attack Apparently it was a de
tached move, similar to their success
ful stroke iti the Champagne during
the early pat f of the Verdun drive.
Although the French continue to of
fer stubborn defense before Verdun,
the Germans have succeeded in gain
ing additional ground. Merlin an
nounces that the French have been
cleared front '"orbeatix and '"umieres
woods, west of the Metise. The otlicia!
French statement says the Germans
captured part of the town of Vaux.
northeast of Verdun, but were unable
to reach tfortress of that name
The German admiralty reports that
iSerman seaplanes attacked a Russian
squadron of one battleship and live
destroyers off the coast of r.ul^ariu. It
is .said some of the destroyers were hit.
A wireless dispatch from Uerlin gives
a report, said to be based on informa
tion given confidentially l.y the French
War Minister. <Seneral Gallieni. that
French casualties to March 1 amounted
to 2.500,000. It is said soft.000 were
killed and 1, <00.000 wounded, -10ft. 000
of them severely, and that ::00.<'0'? are
missing.
i \ti:\si: iiiimii \it OMtrvr
WUST Ol-' DO I \t 1IONT
I'AIMS, March 11.? Intense bombard
ment is being maintained on tin- l>at(lc
front wf'st of Douatitnont. where the
Germans yesterday made a costly and
unsiicee s.sftil infantry attack, accord
1 lit;* to thf ollicial communication from
the War Oinco to-night. A German
Kokker tlyer was brought down by a
Kr?'!iei> aviator to-ilav near Douaumont.
To-night's* statement reads;
'In Belgium, destructive (ires were
directed against the trenches and un
derground works of the enemy in the
region of Steensitraetc and the en
virons of Hixschoote.
"in Artois, to tln? east of Neuviile,
we exploded a mine, the crater of
which we occupied. Between the
Somme and the oise we bombarded
German organizations in the region of
Ilerbecourt, Laticourt ami Reuvraignes.
North of the Aisne, ji ver\ lively can
iionmie has been maintained in the re
gion of the Dois-de-Buttes. south of
I.a Ville-aux-Uol*.
"(?n the left hank of the Mr use the
activity of the two artilleries was less
spirited during the course of the day.
On the right hank an intense bombard
ment is being maintained in the region
west of !>ouaumont. It has not been
mi intense on the rest of the center or
in the Woevrc.
"The enemy did not attempt any in
fantry action along the whole of our
front. According to the latest reports,
the fruitless assaults launched yester
day against our trenches west of Dou
aumont were very disastrous to the
enemy. The Germans attacked three
times in columns of four, but wero
mowed down by our artillery fire and
the tire of our machine guns. They
were obliged to retire, leaving the
ground covered with dead bodies.
"To-day, in the region of Douati
tnont, one of our aeroplanes brought
down a Fokker machine, which fell in
flames inside the German lines."
The Belgian ofliclnl communication
roads:
"Last night was disturbed only by
some artillery fire on the southern part
of our front. There is nothing to re
port to-day except the usual artillery
actions."
(iKHMAXH ItlCPOKT CAI'TI III:
or KitKXrn positions
IIKRLI.V. March 11 (via Londont.?
Capture of French positions 1.400 yards
wide and about two-thirds of a mile
(Continued on Klevonth I'ago.)
Wars New Marvels
as Seen at Verdun
by Lord Northcliffe
\SizeofGunsQuintupled and
New Gas Poisons All It
Touches?Germans 7ell
of Food Shortage.
UV LORD 2V OIlTIICI.IIrKK.
FAJtlfj. March 11.?Americans who
saw thu triumphant inarch of the mag
ntfleently organized German troops at1
Urusne 1b In Aucusl, 1314, gathered the!
Impression the Teutonic hordes, with
their years of preparedness behind]
them, would be a bio to march about
Kurope, Napoleonlike, offering peace
here and there ns they chose and do-'
niandtng anything they wanted. There
are n number of written records by
Americans ami othets of that brilliant
spectacle.
Turn hack to the photographs of the,
tline and look nt the Impressive ser-j
rierl ranks of the many well-clothed
soldiers. The first German prisoners I
saw were those taken* by the English
in the battle of the Maine?great, big
Prussians: One. smiling Saxons; well
mannered Wurttembergers, of good
phyplque, just nuch men as you would
see at any German turnvereln in tbo!
United States.
.Saturday 1 saw (he German pris-.
oners who had escaped the hellish fire
of the French seventy-fives at Verdun.;
Where had gone those splendid stal
warts captured In the battle of tho
Maine? If there be a bread ltno In tho
American city in which you live at tho
present moment, go have a look at it
to-night, and you will g?t a fairly
accurate impression of much of the
rank anil file now left of the Ger
mans. I
GKHMANV KArKS HKAIt
I.OOK OF I-*ftlC;nT
Under-sized, badly dressed, with faces
that bear a look of fright that seems
as if it would Inst a lifetime, their1
appearance is such as would move a
heart of stone, it ts difficult to believe
tln.t these dregs of humanity are
!:.l eled the "corps d'elite."
ICxactlv how they would fare in a
hand-to-hand encounter with any of'
the 10,000 young Americans in the
t ish a^my need not be speculated
upon. As it is, the. ether with which
they were drugged before facing the
French and their giant guns. L'.OOO in
number, under whose cover they ad
vanced. alone enabled them to survive
the terror, tinder the influence of which
some oi them were almost unable to
spea k
With two exceptions among those !
with whom 1 spoke, all were utterly j
weary of warfare, and begged to he
told when peace could be expected. J
One exception was a tine young!
bavarian of pood class, who had en- j
listed as a volunteer at the outbreak of
war. and who is already high up in !
the tanks of noncommissioned officers.
I was sorry to sec him among such
canaille.
The other exception was a handsome
Hanoverian, who admitted that Ger
many could not win. but trusted there
was some limit to French ammunition.
1 thought of the vast parks of shells
now being built up in Kugland ami the
huge supplies on the Paris-Verdun
road, but 1 said nothing to disturb tho
poor fellow's anxiet\.
n.lM\TIC I* 1.1 KK
THAT OF MAIN!-:
The district around Verdun and tho
* lunate of Meu.se are not unlike that
of Scotland or Maine at this time of i
the year. All the more astounding is
it that those poor wretches should have
been thrust into this struggle with
clothing that has distinctly deterior- i
ated in quality in the last six months.
Wool must be at a premium in Ger
many The German saying that every- ?
thing goes to the army is certainly !
untrue as regards the soldiers on the .
front at Verdun Clothing obviously
does not go there.
The food supplies of the Germans
were on the whole good, German boys
assured me. One grumbled that the'
oflicers took too much of the limited
amount of lard for their own cooking".
On the whole, there was nothing to
complain, of. though they admitted their
food as French prisoners was better
than as German soldiers.
It should be remembered, however,
that what would satisfy an ordinary
Teuton would certainly not satisfy an j
American or a Frenchman. There was i
a lack of meat and sausage, but fairly 1
good bread and coffee, mixed partly '
with baked acorns
ritonr. ok motivi-:
KOK WINTKIt A'lTA t'li
I describe these men in order that
the reader may more easily put himself
in a position to probe the German mo
tive for an attack in midwinter. Ger
man-Americans reading these lines who
get occasional letters from the Father
land through the censorship will know
a little what l mean when I say that
Germany is fighting against time.
Food calculations have gone wrong in
Germany. The calculation that Kug
land would not submit to conscription
has also gone wrong.
From one end of Germany to the other
the word "peace" is uttered. Its par
allel throughout Kugland and France
is the word "war." Just as Germany
did not realize thai Kugland would go
to the assistance of little Melgium, so
she does not yet understand that the
five Iiritish nations of Canada. Aus
tralia. South Africa, New Zealand, and,
the home country herself, with India'
in addition, are only now starting out
on a war which they are prepared to'
wage, not only as long as war was
waged by the North against tho South,
hut as long as the war between ring
land and Napoleon.
The stui^d Zeppelin trips over Kug
land, silly German newspaper threats
and the foolish idea that tho capture
of Verdun would in any way afreet the
future of tbo war. all point to the fact;
(Continued on Fourteenth Pago.) j
Pershing Reassures
People of Mexico
l-*.l< MA SO. TKX., March II.?Piir
?rnlt mid I'RplurK of Villa In the sole
ptirpnnr <if the punltltr piprdltliin
Into Urilfo, declared (irorrHl .(olin
.1. i'rrwhlnR. cum inuuilnnl nt I'ort
IIIIhn, nmt lino of the lender* of (lir
rjpi'illlliin. to-day In ? ntnlement
iMliril to ?|lltet ricllrmrn! nmoni;
M'"\ii'nn? li> tlilsncctlon.
tirurriil I'frililiiu'.t slnlrmrnl fol
io** *:
"ll should lir ili'rplr 1 til prenneil
upon eirrjbody tlint the only pur
poir of tin* entry of Ami-rlcnu troopi
Into Mrilro at thin time In the pur
milt auil ciiptnrr of Vlllu hihI hi*
bund of hrtgunda.
??It In a tnont friendly art of
annlntanre on onr pnrt. Thin nhould
be fully rrroculr.rd by all true
frlendn of the de fui'tn government
on both ulilrn of the lluc.
??It In no time to Imlnlsre In Idle
tlieorlen aliotit Invnnloo. I (jive the
Mcilran people too ranch credit for
common nenne to think they *rl)1 not
Kindly accept our nld In ellnilniitlnic
nn International outlaw." ?
FUNSTON NOW ARRANGING
FOB PURSUIT OF VILLA
Two or Three Days Probably Will
Ho Required to Organir.o
Expedition.
ltOltDKH CI.OSEIiY WARRED
Utmost Secrecy Regarding Exact Des
tination of Troops Maintained.
First .Aero' Squadron Will lie
I'nrt of Force.
SAX ANTONIO. TKX.. March 11.?In
structed by the War Department at
Washington that ho was not to per
sonally command the troops that will
cross the Rio Grande Into Mexico to
search for Francisco Villa, Major
General Frederick Funston to-day be
gan to arrange the <letalls of the ex
pedition and tn plan for the safeguard
ing of tlie entire Mexican border.
During the day the general con
ferred frequently with Ills staff at Fort
Sain Houston, Southern department
headquarters. As close censorship was
established, however, nil announce
ments were made by General Funston
himself.
From General Funston came this In
formation: An ofllcor subordinate to
litm, a brigadier-general, will com
mand the punitive expedition.
This ofllcer will have complete charge
In the Held and will not be hampored
by unnecessary Instructions.
It will take two or three days to
organize the force or forces that will
go.in pursuit of Villa.
The l'irst Aero Squadron, stationed
at Fort Sain Houston, will he a part
of the. expeditionary force.
A close watch will be kept at all
border points for any symptoms of
disorder that will necessitate the move
ment of troops.
General Funston, for military rea
sons. refused to state how large the
expeditionary force would be: the time
the forward movement, would start;
whether there would be one or several
forces, and the point or poinds :it
which the Itio Grande would be crossed
when Die search began.
It KMT TO l<KKI? KI'XSTIIN
AT HIS IIF.A l)?t I V ltTKItS
Ii was known yesterday that Gen -
oral Funston was willing to personally
lead the force searching' for Villa. It
was explained here, however, that the
War Department thought it best to
keep General Funston at Southern de
partment headquarters, where he would
be In touch with and could direct the
entire border situation If there should
i>e more than one expeditionary force,
the common direction will fall to him.
Another reason assigned was that
the entire routine <>f the Southern de
partment would be interrupted if the
commaudjjig general were in the field.
General Funston also -iid his p'ace
prohahlv would have had to be tilled
by an oilicer of lesser rank, not In touch
with the border situation
It is expected, however, that General
Funston will make frequent visits to
the positions occupied by the invading
t roops.
The movement of troops from de
partments other than that commanded
bv General Funston toward the bor
der. alreadx has been initiated, it is
understood The amalgamation of scat
tered fragments of regiments. trans
portation, the equipment of the com
missary and other details would re
quire, it was estimated by the general,
at least two. and probably three days.
All such troops will be transported
directly to the border.
The utmost secrecy regarding their
exact destination will tie maintained.
General Funston has insisted on his
precaution to the Wat Department, in
order that Villa ma\ be kept as much
11 the dark as possible.
Army officers nt Fort Sum Houston
believe tho border is infested with
Mexicans friendly to Villa, who will
do all in their power to keep him in
formed.
<11 ASK M \ ^ 1110 Smit.AII
TO ONK APTl'.lt At. I IN A I.DO
Estimates of the time required to
capture the former Constitutionalist
leader are unobtainable, but there is a
feeling ?t Southern Department head
quarters that the chase would he sirni
tContinued on Fifth I'utfe.)
FUNSTON MOVING
| TROOPS BEHIND
i VEIL OF SECRECY
Given Free Hand in Work
ing Out Details of
Expedition.
HIS DRIVE INTO MEXICO
TO BE QUICK AND CERTAIN
I Extensive Movements in Prog
ress Along Border Dur
ing Day.
NO XKKD FOR VOLUNTKKR8 VKT
CnrranKA Asks Permission to Move
I Forecs Tliruugli U. S.
Territory.
WASHINGTON. Ma roh l\<?General
' Funston, under orders from President
; Wilson to hunt down Villa's bandit
I army in Northern Mexico, was moving
| his troops at the border to-niffht ba
i hind a veil of rigid secrecy.
| War Department officials, who had
! given the border commander a free
| hand In working out details of the ex
I pedltton. mado It clear that they re
I warded It Imperative to success that
I all Information which might aid VIII*
? In eluding tlia American forces muat
I be guarded scrupulously.
It was apparent only that the mlll
! tary plans contemplated a drive Into
Mexico that ehould be both quick and
certain. The War Department Is will
ing: to take no chanceB by weakening:
the border patrol, and General Fuj*
! ton's orders were not to move until he
] was fully prepared.
Secretary Baker and his chief aub
? ordlnates remained at the War Depart -
! ment until late to-night receiving rlls
' patches from General Funston and do
i lr.fr everything In their power to back
j up his plans. Many of the dispatches
j were forwarded by wireless to Presi
j dent Wilson on the Mayflower at Old
i Point. But whether troops had en
j tered Mexico or Just when -they might
move across the border, the officials
i would not say.
| Pt!\STO.\ URGES SECRECY
I>" MOVEMENT OF TnnOPS
General Funston himself has urged
that all secrecy surround the movement
of troops, so he ma.y have an oppor
tunity to surprise the bandit chieftain.
While extensive troop movements
were In progress along the border dur
ing the day, the State Department re
ceived from General Carranza, head of
the do facto government of Mexico, a
; request for permission to send his
? troops, should occasion arise, across
I the border Into tho United States in
j pursuit of bandits. Tho note imme
1 diately was forwarded to President
j Wilson, and to-night he sent word he
would consider it until his return to
the capital on Monday morning, and
then would confer with Secretary Lans
ing before making nny decision.
There was every indication that of
ficials viewed General Carranza's re
j quest In a favorable light. It was sug
j Rested, however, that such a reciprocal
I arrangement probably never would re
? suit In a single Carranza soldier enter
| ing the United States, for officials fee!
; that with the tightening of tho border
? patrol, the possibility that nny fugitive
1 bandits will cross Is remote. At the
j same time. It Is fell that acquiescence
by the United States in the proposal ot'
tho cle facto government would go far
toward gaining the sympathy of public
opinion In those parts of Mexico which
j are under the control of the recogn?7.?<i
j government.
') HKMIIVEN \ I'Pftr.Urc.VSIO.V
OP SOMl? OirrCTA l.S
j General Carranza's note relieved the
i apprehension of some administration
iofficials who had considered that there
Jwns :? possibility he might object I<
the presence of American troopers on
I Mexican soil. The communication in
j dlcnted that no objection would 'on
1 raised under such a reciprocal arr;?ng?t
] ment as was suggested. A reply prob
ably will b? sent some time on Mon
i day.
It generally is expected that tho
American forces, which probably will
number iti the neighborhood of T.uOO
men, will by that time bo well on tho
i trail of the bandits who raided Colutn
! bus. One of the chief causes of delay
has been the necessity of replacing:
with infantry the cavalry troops which
heretofore have been performing bur
! tier patrol duty. Movements of troops
have been in progress ever since Gen
eral Funston received his orders t-t
catch Villa, but their exact nature nia>
not be known for several days.
( n\?.Ki;S5 STANDS Sl(( A1IKI.\
niciit.M) the puksidi: vr
I Discussion lu congressional circle;
to-day indicated further tint Congress
; stands squarely behind the PrositIon *
in 'nis determination t<< run down the
Villa marauders. The. Senate Foreign
! Kelations ("ommlttee met and unnni
' inously Indorsed the President's action.
In the House, Representative Mott, of
New' York, a Republican member of
the Foreign Affairs Committee. Intro
duced a Joint resolution Justifying the
President. "In the employment uf armed
forces of the United States" and ?et
, tinK forth that "the United States dls
l claims any hostility to the Metiean
people or any purpose to make war on
Mexico." There was no general dis
cussion of the subject on the lloor of
either house.
Secretary Maker said that what*
lever re-enforcements ilt-neral Kunsion
mlRht require to maintain an adequate
. patrol a loner the border in addition to
| the expeditionary force would bi?
promptly furnished. He added that
the War Department had been deluged
with telegrams from Individuals and
{ organizations offcrliiK services as vol
; unteers.
j There was :>t present. Secretary
ltaker said, no i?wd fto kummoniug
