THE ABJZONA REPUBLICAN
Ah f,PENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
Thi Arizona
Republican,
Full
Lsattd Wir
A. P. Report
Tha Bun
Alwaya 8hlitM
Finart
Wlntar Climate
In tha Wor'd
TWENTY-SIXTH YEAR
22 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, SUNDAY MORNING, MARCH 12, 1916
22 PAGES
VOL. XL VI, NO. 298.
SCANDINAVIAN
ElIfiNINTTll
CONTINUE PACT
'(inference of Ministers of
State Results in Agree
ment Looking to Contin
uance of Common Meas
ures Already Taken
vFAV CONFERENCES
ALSO PLANNED
'.inference Was Not Called
lo Discuss- Foreign Poli
cies and No Steps Were
Taken Looking Toward
Movement for Peace
Republican A. P. ceased Wire
(.OPEN HAG FN i via lxmdon), .March
i:. An official statement regarding
ihe conference of the Scandinavian
ministers of state which concluded Sat
urday says:
"The deliberations were opened by a
general conversation on the questions
which have nccurred to the Scandina
vian governments since the outbreak
f the war, and particularly after the
mating of the Scandinavian kings at
Malmo in December, 1914.
Various important matters which
have occurred since were discussed.
As regards several special questions of
practical interest, an agreement was
leached looking to the continuance of
the common measures already taken
and the new measures to be taken in
the interest of the three countries.
"The deliberations strengthened the
go.nl relations between the three states
and save fresh expression of the de
sire i maintain a loyal and impartiul
neutrality. The desire to continue th$
co-operation hitherto pursued was ex
pressed by all those in attendance. It
was a!bo urged that conferences of the
numbers r.f the governments or other
representatives of the states be held
t. further co-operation as often as cir
cumstances may render them desir
able." The Scandinavian conference, which
nded tonight, is generally hailed by the
press as a fresh demonntration to the
world that the northern peoples will
.nt together, if ever they deem action
necessary, lo protect the sovereignty of
the neutral states.
While details are lacking concerning
the discussion, it is generally agreed
that the conference took up the ques
tions of submarines, mines, the block
ade and tlie possible effect of England's
wider employment of the fleet for the
extension of the blockade and its great
er effectiveness.
That the conference was not called
to discus foreign policies and that it
would contravene the rules laid down
for its guidance and be outside its
purpose to act upon a cull to neutral
nations for steps toward peace, was
itm declaration made today by the Da
nish foreign minister, I". .1. C. De Soav
enius, to representati cs of the Ford
mission, now known as "The .Neutral
Conference for (Continuous Meditation."
In response to an appeal of the com
mitted, of which the Rev. Charles Aked
is chairman, for a hearing before the
S.-undinavian conference. Minister De
isravenius received the members at the
I lace today and heard their address,
and after expiring the scope of the
conference, said he would lay the ap
peal Ix-forc his government and report
bis action to the ministers from Nor
way and Sweden attending the con
ference. Dr. Aked said that he and his asso
ciate were delighted at their first offi
cii,! recognition and reception since
-tuning to I'urope and reported their
success to the American legation.
Addressing the Danish foreign min
isier, .Mr. Aked said:
"The unofficial neutral conference
now sitting at Stockholm respectfully
submits to the Copenhagen conference'
ministers an appeal which It is making
in the governments of neutral coun
tries. The unofficial conference ex
press the hope that you will accord
consideration to the apjieal, and em
ploy your great influence to promote
an otficial conference of neutral coun
tries charged to discuss every mean!
for solving the problems raised by the
war."
The appeal which was presented
suited that the neutral conference was
noting in the spirit of Article 2 of The
Hague convention, which provides that
"the powers hold it is desirable that
one or more neutral powers should upon
ihrir own initiative, when they judge
the circumstances ' propitious, offer
us, oiitr
to belligT
their services as meditators
ernt states"
The Scandinavian ministers of state '
held a long sitting today, this being
the final session.
0
DOUGLAS GUARD SHOOTS BOY '
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire
UISPKK. Ariz.. .March 11. A coro
ner's Jury investigating the death of
a , small Mexican boy w)io was killed
arly this morning by one of the guards
Placed to give warning of the approach
..f Mexiran bamdiU, returned a verdict
.m... uA.iovi.ia. u, "-
i.pprehensinu of the identity of the deT
.eased. Efforts are being made to ob-
tain the release of S. Benetiz, an Amer-
'can citizen Maid to be held incommunl-
ado by the Cnrranza officials at Xaco,
Sonora. According to reports Benetiz
tv?. enticed ncresH the boundary linte
and arrested on the charge of bfing a
Viila sympathizer.
GERMAN OFFENSIVE IS
SLACKENED FOR TIME
IN THE VERDUN REGION
-
-
RUSSIANS LOSE ANOTHER
BOAT BY A MINE 1
' ' !
liERUX, March 11. the Rus- i
sian torpedo boat destroyer Leite- j
nan Pushtehin has been mink by a
mine, according to a report from J
Sofia Bulgaria, given out by the i
Overseas News Agency. Four
officers and eleven sailors of the j
crew of the destroyer were rescued j
bv Utilitarians. j
I
The Leitenan I'ushtehin was an
; unit of the Russian Black sea fleet
i and probably was lost in the Black
I sea off the coast o Bulgaria. She
j was "10 feet in length and displaced
226 tons. Her complement in peace
I times was 67 men.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, March 11. Secre
tary Lansing today instructed Consul
Osborn at Havre, France, to secure
and forward immediately all available
details of the sinking in Havre roads
of the Norwegian bark Silius, from
which seven American citizens were
rescued. Consul Osborn had previous
ly reported that the Silius was tor
pedoed without warning on the night
of March 9. If a torpedo did destroy
the; bark, which was bound to Havre
from New York with grain, tho govern
ment responsible will be held, to strict
accountability. Such an act would be
contrary to all assurances which the
United States has secured.
Officials seemed inclined, however, to
refrain from forming an opinion until
it was known positively that a torpedo
and not a mine sunk the ship.
Should Consul Osborn's investigation
etsablish that a torpedo actually was
responsible, the 1 'nlted States officials
indicated they will view the matter as
even more serious than if a passenger
carrying vessel was involved. The state
department considers that American
seamen have even a greater claim lo
protection than passengers. A passen
ger travels at his discretion, while a
seaman is compelled to do so oy his
occupation.
Sinks in Five Minutes.
HAVRE, Marcli 11. The American
sailors in the crew of the Norwegian I
bark Silius, sunk by a torpedo, were
I). A. Novak, Norfolk, Conn.; llenry
Monuhan, Itoston; David Sherman,
New Bedford, i Mass.; Sam Sullivan,
Atlantic City; John Ilartmann, 1". A.
Culiffe, Atlantic City, . and John W.
Vangalen, -Melrose, -Mass. Ilartmaii,
who was wounded, was taken to the
Pasteur hospital.
The rescued sailors stated to the !
American, consul that the vessel was j
torpedoed without warning and sunk in
five minutes. The Americans will be
sent to their homes by the Norwegian j
consulate.
SEALING SEASON UNDER WAY.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
ST. JOHNS, N. l, March 11. The
sealing uerirson was well under way to
night with the departure of the fleet
for the I j) bra dor coast and the (Julf of
St. Lawrence. The only steel steamer
in the Meet tnis year is the Florizel,
which during the summer is regularly
rr.n in the New York-St. Johns service.
All of the modern sealing vessels have
been requisitioned by the British gov
ernment for the breaking at Archangel,
where irome of them now are frozen in.
To replace them, many of the old wood
en steamers formerly engaged in seal-
i,ot a mom., iw.i.1 .iMmon nave
...... ......... .
been equipped for work among, the
floes this season.
JURY ACCUSES OKANE
l-AWTOX, Okla., March 11. A cor
oner's jury which for the past week
has been investigating the killing of
the Ol'.nne family near here last Sun
day night, returned a verdict today
fixing the crime on Daniel Okane. The
opinion declared it the belief of the
fury thnt he first murdered his aged
father, wife and five children, and
then put a bullet through hi; own
head. Temporary insanity was sup-
j ,)OK(M) to have been the cause of the
triledv.
-
rj
sine siuus
MADE SUBJECT
OF AN INQUIRY
THREE HUH IN WALK
OUT AT MOB
(Special to The Republican) i ground that he did not know the. work, ftf!, nine Hoops of the eighth caval
C1JFTON, Ariz., March 11. Three the foreman gave him his time. Ac- "' with the thirteenth at Columbus,
humlre1 me' o( tl,e shannon Copper
companv ieft thoir work today as a re-
. sut of a disagreement through which
an underground workman was dis-
rharueri onnslmr the romolete shut
uf)wn or the mine. This evening the
matter was straightened out and to-
morrow morning the men go back to
work.
foreman tried to put a miner to
work in the machine shop. It is said,
and when the latter refused, on the
French Official Report An-;
nounces There Has Been;
No Recent Attempt at
, German Infantry Action
Along Whole Front
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
The German offensive for the time
being has been slackened in the Ver
dun region. The French official re
port announces that there has been,
no recent attempt at infantp' action
on the part of the Germans along the
whole front.
On the east bank of the Meuse, the
region around Douauinoiit is being
subjected to a heavy bombardment,
but on the rest of the center and
in the Woevre the guns are not work
ing so actively and on the wastern
hank of the Meuse in that section
from .BetUincnurt to the i 'oie De
L'Oie, the artillery duel has been com
paratively unimportant.
In that region the Germans claim
to have re-taken most of the Cor
beaux wood, the possession of which
is likely to prove a factor in an at
tack on the Cote De IJOie. the Ger
mans also holding hill 27, to the
northeast of that important strategic
position.
Describing the German attacks on
the French trenches west of Douau
inont on Friday, the official state
ment of the French war office says
that the Germans three times in col
umns of four rushed forward to
the assault blit were mowed down
by artillery and machine gun fire.
They were forced to retire "leaving
the ground covered with bodies."
Saxon regiments by a sudden thrust
in the Champagne', at a point where
there have been few breaks in the
routine of trench warfare for several
months, have captured positions of
a considerable section of ihe French
front. The German war office an
nounces that the ground gained was
about two thirds of a mile deep along
1,400 yards of front and that several
guns and more than 7m) prisoners
were taken.
The attack was made at a point
nonr ltheims snnie .lisfiinf'e'N west
of the scene of the last previous I
German assault in the Champagnei '
There have been no indications thus)
far that the Germans have attempted
to follow up their attack. Apparently
it was a detached move, stmilar to
their successful stroke i:i the Clu.in
pagne during the early part of the
Verdun drive.
Although the French continue to
offer stubborn defense before Ver- j
dun, the Germans have succeeded tn
gaining additional ground. Berlin nn
nouces that the French have been
cleared from Corbeaux and Cuniiores
! woods west of the Meuse. The '
official French statement says the
Germans captured part of tho town
l)nt I
ot vuux, nortnwest or ertttin, our j
were unable lo reach the fortress of
that name. i
The German admiralty reports that 1
German seaplanes attacked a Bus-'
(Continued on Page Two)
MORMON COLON! NO LONGED IN
DANGER OF ATTACK 0! VILLA
Republican A. P. Leased Wire ;he invasion ouestiou in their editor
KL I'ASO, Texas, .March 1 1. The ials, but several small sheets that
Mormon colony of Casas Grandes, ' are said lo break out when ever a
Chihuahua, iH no longer in danger crisis occurs have been taken in hand
of attack by Villa bandits "according: by the police. Although the border
lo General Gabriel (lavira. command-, is closely patrolled by the Americans,
ant at Jaurez. General Gavira stated I the main object is to catch any
that sufficient reinforcements has ; contraband arms that may be passing
been nent into the district to pro- j through to the Viliistas. The resu
tect the foreigners there, and that hir army of Mexico giver, every fa
the refugee train held in reudiness j eility in the way of obtaining sup
to leave for the north probably would plies, and General liertani has placed
not be sent. ,a large order in Kl I'aso.
The nnlv train exneoted toniffht
" ., .... '
:irom me souin was ti special carry- '
ing General Luis Guiterrez fiom Chi
huahua to Jaurez, where he is to
confer with General Gavira.
Jaurez has preserved its usual calm.
General Gavira has cavalry patrols
out during the night.
To m l.a-ii citn-o, .1 riTiT-i.lii.nci , in ww I. .
... . . ...i. ...... ".houses m
aroused among tue autnoniies ty
the large number of Mexicans cross -
ins over Into Texas, but an investi -
!.. i..,i ...... , ,
ouf of the range of any conflict. fr'1- '" '' t","f-''t. to Doming. N.
Manv declare,) they had seen enouglJI- ' T of a '1'strict w,','-'.hf.
of war I suffered much from brigandage in
w',r. ,,i,v. viii,. rw-miiinp. I1"'- TI'e tw" mountain mule
agents operating in Jaurez have not
stood the test of inquiry. The lead
ing newspapers in Spanish keep off
. ;t .
"
cording to a statement given out to-
' night, the man's case was at once tak-
THEN RETURN
en up by the local .Miners' union, which ; "".cs KiK.iui co,,. aii.i iito1uii lit
ordered the entire underground crew to j tachments.
lay down its tools. Since last night extra precautions
The sheriffs office officially states 'have been taken in F.l Paso. The mili
that no disorder attended the one-day itary guards on patrol and stationed
strike, that negotiations were instituted
as soon as it was learned the three
hundred had been withdrawn from the
shafts, with the result that the matter
was straightened up forthwith.
BANDIT VILLA
i nnniiTP Tnti linn
m
ri nnnr nimin
U I I II HI- U
ll I luiiL unmi
I iuiiiii
Report Received at Thir
teenth Cavalry Headquar
ters Indicates .Vioxicaii
Outlaw Rand is Pro-ced-ihtr
Sonthwcstcrlv
Republican A. P. Lea ed Wire
COLF.Ml'l'S, N. M, -March ll. The
bandit Villa, according to an otficial
telegram received at the headquarters
of the Thirteenth cavalry tonight, has
moved southward towards the Sonora
state border in the general direction
of the F.l Tigres district.
Troopers of the Thirteenth cavalry,
which h.-Nii otf Villa'.- raid on Columbus
Thursday, were fully prepared t-jday to
move into .Mexico at a moment's notice
and men and officers chafed at the de
lay in orders to begin a chase of the
Mexican insurgent chief.
The town, in contrast to the nervous
ness which bordered on panic last
night, v.u:-: calm and quiet when dark
ness fell, rind the Thirteenth regimental
hand resumed its concerts tonight.
Colonel H. J. Slocur-i's general
report of Villa's attempted invasion,
completed tcdav, showed as its out
standing feature the fact that
Villa, with from 1.500 to 2,500 men,
was chased from the hardy:, fifteen
miles into Mexico by fifty-nine of
ficers and men of the troops of the
Thirteenth infantry, under Major
Frank Tompkins. This force fought
four actions with Villa's rear
guard of at least 900 men, killed
at least 75 "ilexicans. recovered a
number of horses stolen from the
covalry by the bandits. and
emerged with the loss of only two
mounts killed, with no casualties.
During the pursuit, which Major
Tompkins could not continue with
out rest and reinforcements, the
Mexicans, apparently badly disor
ganized and fearful cf a chase by
(Continued on Base Twelve)
' VILLA ALSO REPORTED
' NEAR CORRALITOS
F.L 1'A SO, 'March 11. Villa with :
j a band of about !M0 men, was in j
! the neighborhood of Corralitos, Chi-
i hnahuu today, according to a dis-
patch received Lite tonight at the I
' Mexican army headquarters in j
j Juarez from General Bortani at i
i Balomas. There are two towns j
i named ( 'oi ralitos, one directly on ;
the line of the .Mexico Northwest-
; era railway about ten miles north :
! of Casus Grar.dcs, and. the other j
j about -0 miles away and remote j
i from tin; line.
j There was a report in Kl I'aso f
tonight that several trains had ar-
riveu at Juarez bearing Mexican '
troops, but an investigation shows ;
no trains have come and none were i
i exI,ecl0l tonight.
-
I , . , , , ... ,
I general .louii ,i. i ersuiug ismicu
statement terming the Villa txpedi-
tion
a most friendly act of assis
on the part of the Fnited
i 1
States,
while preparations for the
; expeditions against Villa were being
plshe(, ,u K()rt Tjjss , sneers made
I the rounds
of
Kl
the
Pit SI I
inlomobile sale
listing motor
trucis
1
1 .ne -,"n!';,n'
ilisleta and the
hiiaiilry left for
two olIicis made
orders to move over the roadless
haunts of Villa. The company oper
ating the field wireless expects to
ibe among ihe first to leave for the
' front.
! Reinforcements are expected here
; before the expedition gets under
! wav, to relieve for active service the
seasoned men now on patrol on the j
border.
The forces on duty in this section
(consist of two mule batteries of the
fourth artillery, a field battery of thet
'""1 th(' six- seventh, sixteenth
j twentieth regiments of infantry
be
.t the smelter, gun works and other
border points have been heavily re
inforced and in addition to the regu
lar police, 1.".0 specials, armed with
rifles, have been called out.
SECRECY MARKS MOVEMENT OF
U. S. TROOPS TOWARD RORDER
c
I
I OFFERS TO RAISE !
b COWBOY REGIMENT j
BILLINGS, Mont., March 11. An i
: off r to raise a regiment of cavalry I
' enlisted from the cowboys of Mon- '
' tana and northern Wyoming was j
j tonight wired to Secretary of War ,
Baker by Baul MoCormiok, Ji a .
i cattleman of this district. MoCor- I
; mick, who is a son of Colonel Paul
Me' 'ormicli. a noteil Indian fighter, ,
was trained in an eastern military '
school and for six years was a cap-
tain of lite Montana national guard, j
being promoted to major before his
retirement. He is person illy-a.'- ;
quainted with most of1 rlie cow
punchers of this iv;mn. !
sr
F
Republican A. P. Leasui Win
SAN ANTONIO, Texas, March IJ.-
tnstructed by the war department at
FUNSTON
IV
Washington that he was not to per- ) '. " " ,y ..... Miiut . o uiatutw
"ounlly command the- troops that wilt . I I'oll I ( i (')iei'a I rllllstoll aild doing eVel'Vtllillg ill tlieil' pOWOf
rt 'r1, his )Aim- Man" of 'Pat-hes were for-
eral Frederick Funston today began Warded lV wireless to President ilsOU (loWll tllC Potomac
Lr the Mayflower. Rut whether troops had entered Mex-
of the entire Mexican border. ;lfO orjUst wllCll tllt'V might lllOVC fltTOSS tllC boi'dci' tllC of-
During the day the general cornel red , fj,.;., W(m( u, ,t s;,
trequently with his staff at 1-ort ft-am I in
iu-uston, southern department head- i General Funston himself has urged that all secrecy sur
Shed. Lt'Z r prdingt ah round the movement of troops, so he may have an oppcr
announcements were made by oenemi j tunity to surprise the bandit chieftain.
i iinston timih. il. i
From General Funston came this in-j
formation: . j
"That an officer .subordinate to him. j
a. brigadier general, would command i
the punitive expedition. I
"That this officer would have com-
I lete charge in the field and would j
not be hampered by unnecessary in-
struetions. j
"That it would lake two or three days :
to organise the force or forces that will ;
go in pursuit of Villa.
"That the first aero squadron, sta
tioned at Fort Sam Houston, will b a
part of the expeditionary forces.
"That a close watch will be kept at
all border points for any syniptons of
disorder that will necessitate the move
ment (if troops."
General Funston. for military reasons,
refused to state how large the expe
ditionary force would be; the time the
forward movement would start; wheth
er there would be one or several forces,
and the point or points at which the
(Continued on Page Nine)
Double Nvgales Patrol
Republican A. P. Leased Wire The Caminza sohlicrs at Nogales, rio
NoGALKii, Ariz. Mnnh 11. Patrols j nora, strolled the streets or lounged
along the international boundary near
here wcie doubled, today. Wild rum
ors promising invasion of the United
Stale as well as invasion of Mexico
were carried through the crowds
which filled the streets in Not'ales,
Arizona, and Nogales, Sonora, Just
across the border.
Poth towns were tranuuil tonight.
Airmen To Play Big Part
In The Pursuing Of Villa
"Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN ANTONIO, Tex, March 11.
Army officers are interested intensely
in the F'rt the First Aero squadron
will play in the pursuit of Francisco
Villa. No American aero squadron
ever before has had actual military
service. Machines were sent to Vera
Cruz and there has been aerial scout
ing done along the border, but this is
the first real test of the ''fourth arm"
cf the service.
It is not known when the squad
ron w ill leave San Antonio, but it has
been announced that it will lie ready
by tomorrow afternoon. Weather con-
ditions now are .perfect for flying and ion from Foit Kill. Oklahoma, last
it is thought that tho start, of the November, when tl-.e squadron was
De Facto Troops Will Aid
Americans Pursuing Villa
T Republican A. P.
DOUGLAS, Ariz.,
G. Lelevier, Mexican consul here, re
ceived a message today from Eliseo
Arredondo, ambassador designate of
the Mexican de facto government at
Washington, . officially confirming
President Wilson's intention of send
ing a punitive expedition across the
Mexican border in pursuit of General
Villa.
The message stated that the am
bassador had asked General Carranza
General Funston, Under Orders from President Wilson to
Cross Mexican Border and Engage United States Troops
in Hunting Down Villa's Bandit Army, Begins Move
ment of His Forces, But Throws Veil of Secrecy Around
Their Whereabouts or Their Destination Makes It
Clear He Regards It Imperative to Success That All In
formation Which Might Aid Villa in Eluding American
Forces Must Be Carefully Guarded
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire)
j WASHINGTON, March 11. General Funston, under
; orders from President Wilson to hunt down Villa's bandit
Gianny in northern -Mexico, was moving his troops at the
j border tonight behind a veil of rigid secrecy.
War department officials, who had given the border
j commander a free hand in working out details of the expe
dition, made it. clear that they regarded it imperative to
jsiic -ess that all information which might aid Villa in elud-
ing the American forces must be guarded scrupulously. '
i It was apparent only that the military plans contem-
j plated a drive into Mexico that should be both quick and
1 certain. The war department is willing to take no chances
by weakening the border patrol, and General Funston's or
' ders were not to move until he was fully prepared.
Necretary laker and his cfiiet subordinates remained at
tl, imr l.inivtmiot until lot,,
While extensive troop movements
were. i'i progress along the border
during the day. the state department
received front General Onrrimza, head
of the de -facto government of "Mex-
ieo. a request for permission to send
his troops, should ociasion arise,
across the bolder into the I'nitcd
States in pursuit of the bandits. The
note immediately was forwarded to
President Wilson on the -Mayflower,
and Knight he sent word he would
consider it until his return to the
capital Mond'iy morning and then
V'ould confer with Secretaiy Landing
before making anv decision.
; There was every indication that
officials viewed General Carranza's
i re plo t in a favorable iighl. It was
suggested. However, inal suen a re
ciprocal arrangement probably never
would result k: a single Carr.-jnza
soldier . iitering. the Fnited States, for
officials f. ei that with the tightening
of the border patrol the possibility
tin? any fugitive bandit" will cross is
about the plaza, where band concerts
weT giver.. On the American side an
artillery drill by American soldiers
were conducted back of the town, hid
den 'from tho view of many Mexican
refugees. This measure, it was slid,
was taken as a precaution against
exciting peaceful Mexicans. Colonel
William If. Sage is in command.
.tourney will not be delayed any longer
ilia n is necessary.
Captain Uenjamin D. Foulous, com
manding the ten officers under him
who comprise the "fliers" of the
squadron, and the eighty troopers
j completing the detachment, worked
hard toduv preparing for their depar
ture. A big part of the equipment
will go forward by train.
All of the officers under Captain
Foulois, with the exception of Lieu
tenant A. 1!. Christ'e, will go t'o the
fr.mt. Most of them are veteran avi
ators. Several of thein participated
in ihe flight of the fir.-t aero squad-
Leased Wire j for instructions, and advised the con
March IK Ives sul to be "discreet and circumspect.'
Trains bringing approximately 1,000
infantry and cavalry of the de facto
forces arrived at Naco tonight. These
commands will start nveriand early
tomorrow for Agua Prieta, from which
place they will be distributed at various
points along the Sonora and Chihua
hua borders in an effoit to assist the
American forces in their task of
rounding up villa's forces, according
to Mexican officials.
t.o.i.rhf v.,,,',-;,,,. j;.l.
remote. At the same time it is felt
that ae(uiesence by the Fnited State
in the proposal of the de factor gov
ernment would go far toward gaining
lh .-sympathy of public opinion in
those parts of Mexico which are un
der the control of the recognized
government.
. Gonei a! Cn rranza's note relieved the
apprehension of some administration
officials who had considered than
there was a possibility he might ob
ject to the presence of American
troopers on Mexican soil. The com
munication indicated that no objec
tion would be raised under such :
reciprocal arrangement as was sug
gested. A reply probably will be sent
some time Monday.
It generally is expected that the
American forces, which probably will
number in the neighborhood of 7.".tW
men, will by that time he well on tho
trail of the bandits who raided Co
lumbus. One of the chief causes ot
delay has been the necessity of re
placing with infantry the cavalry
trcops which have been performing
border patrol duty. Movement of
troops have been in progress ever
since General Funston received his
orders to catch Villa, but their evact
nature may not be known for several
days.
Discussion in congressional circles
today indicated further that congress
stands squarely behind the president
in his determination to run down the
Villa marauders. The senate foreign
Telations committee met and unani
mously endorsed the president's ac
tion. In the house, Representntiv
'Continued on Page Three)
transferred to Fort Sam Houston.
Captain Foulois and Lieutenant J.
K. Cnrberry, T. S. Bowen. I. A. Ru
der and C. G, Chapman are the pres
ent members of the squadron who
made the flight from Fort Sill.
Other members are Captain T. T.
Todd and Lieutenant H. A. Dargue,
W. O. Gorrcll. W. O. Kilner and R. H.
Willis.
Captain Foulois in command of the
First Aero squad is one of the army's
first pioneer nir men. He was with
i vine wriKiir. m tne lirst cross
country flight of America of any consequence-that
from Fort Meyer, W
to Alexandria in IsOS. He was an
officer of the Seventh Infantry when
he entered the flying corps. He is i
married man and has a family.
The squadron is undermanned, as
its full complement should be twenty
flying men. The equipment, in addi
tion to the eight earoplanes, consists
of twenty heavy motor trucks and.
five motorcycles, the latter being used
for the raqid transportation of gaso
line and of parts to cripled machines.
Twenty-five aeroplane guns nnd""!i
quantity of ammunition will go for
ward with -the motor trucks, it is
understood.
While no reports have been received
of disorders along the border, prepa
rations have been made to quell any
tht may arise. General Funston h.-s
here about fifteen hundred men. com
prising the three land branches of the
service that might lie sent to the aid
of the troops already at BrownsvilK
Laredo and oer Texag border points.
