J
Wat tfosftfttafott Clme
Leather forecast:
Wanner Tonight
J (Full Report on Pago Two.)
Sunday Evjening
Edition
S
WASHINGTON, STJNJAY EVENING, MABCH 12, 1910.
NTJMBEB 8887.
PBICE ONE CENT.
PURSUIT OF VILLA WELL UNDER WAY;
GARRANZA STILL PUZZLES OFFICIALS
w
.
V
n
F
A
TROUBLE
OVER
CROSSING
N
Many Difficulties in Way of
Agreement Concerning the
Movement of Troops.
NO TREATY TO ENTER U. S.
President Cannot Give Permis
sion to Carranza Latter
Reserved Loopholes in Reply
By JUDSON C. WELLIVER.
The impression seems to be com
monly entertained that it will be an
easy and simple for the Gov
ernment of the United States
and Mexico to agree on an arrange
ment by which United States
troops may cross the international
border in pursuit of Mexican ban
dits, and Mexican troops may do
the same if necessity shall arise.
As a matter of fact there are somei
very realrfifficulties in the way. i
Authority for an armed force to
enter upon American territory in
order to pursue outlaws, criminals,
etc.. cannot he granted by the Ex
ecutive of this country. It must
be accomplished by treaty process,
and there is no treaty to this effect
at present between this country
and Mexico.
LEAVES A LOOPHOLE.
General Carranza. In his note to the
Washington Gdvernment, Instead of
granting the lenuest for permission to
semi American force across the bor
der, uses tills language:
"The government presided over by the
Fiist Chief addresses the United
States requesting the necessary permis
sion for Mexican forces to cross Into
American territory In pursuit of those
ha milts, acknowledging due reciprocity
in leg.ud to forces of the United States
rosslug Into Mexican territory If tho
raid effected at Columbus should unfof
tunatelv be repented nt other points of
the border."
The foregoing Is ;t very long nay
from permission for American CTiVps
lu crosd the border. It Is Instead an
agieement to allow Amerienn troopa to
rrom provided similar permission is
given by the United Btatiia for Mexi
can troops to cross, and even this Is
based on the- condition that "the raid
effected nt Columhua should unfortu
nately ho repeated at other points of
the border."
It Is not hastily to be assumed. In
(Continued on Eighth Page.)
Pleads for Aid to
Baby Week Board
Dr. Arthur L. Murray Sends Out
Letter Asking for Co
operation. I'lans for Baby Week in the Dis
trict arm being; formulated under the'
committee of which Dr. William C.
Woodward health officer of tho Dis
trict, u chairman.
A executive officer In charge, Dr.
Arthur L. Muiruy today xent out a
Idea for co-operation and tor aug
Krstiona. lie nald:
'The auccess of this undortakJiiK
which lias the Indorsement of tho
Vresldent of the United Stites. tho
Commissioners of the Dlsti let of Co
lumbia, nnd tho various civic and wel
fare organization of the community
is to a, considerable extent dopendant
upon the whole-hearted and public
rpirited ro-opotdtlon of evciy citizen
of this District.
'Tho saving of Infanta and the making-
possible that babies have a better
thenco for happy and healthy lives
is a decided civic economy and is
,1itBt as much a concern of every cit
izen of tills District as it i of tho
i iiinlclpul government and the va
i Inns organization working In the
Intel en of infant welfare.'
London Bets 5 to 1 War
Will Last Until Dec. 1
"T.L i Ma in ai nan n.,-... . ' ' ' ' N,
VM S E MRjAUE? SVaaalVf AaBBwHaflaBBv " ydCTBiiLSataMaT JaM.iBMaMMLWiT itJX 4CX JK PaaaWarlaPTP KL.!Hw-! J!mltm9'JKMKHtKtrf'9ti3Bt
fi Ht J 5- k F aBaVaVaVaVaVaBSai aSakSaSaflkK .VarVLVaVawAaLVaVaVaVaaflBaHaW'VaV a LVaBt BaHV . - t , Ur.,ni. fy Ar I
fiBail'l ' SEr HLBk V'vlkrflBBaVaBaBBBaBBaiw J arfCaWaWaWaWaWaWaWaWaWaWaBM?aPllL-t V W V 'StF mK't.
JHR BIh.1 ? MVBaBaVBaBaBaBaBaBBami taT afr" Av(ZfcSa' VBHBaaSaSaBaBaBaSHVL''vSaBfiBM V IVJCj'' .atCTS. TBrBr'' '"'TiT " )f
i ,-3B tfl t ' Wlmf ? 4llt09BBtHMaBBBB iBBraBBBBBBBpiln A K SlWi 'aBaVBMkS'ff. . lV fammmS kt
0- B aVBaVBaK' " VsT ' S,iflKTl MWr aaBaBKSaaaaaaaaaaBaba&. K ataaaVSBBBk r AlnfHSUkfilM7m. K BBBBbE
iwy B A IB K iB alw TTwV LHHialv V B LHHHUbt LHHHIIIIIIIIIIv
'$?''&& JaMraP'ff mjj-Wk k Jv&i United States mountain battery- tive expedition' scm Into Mexico to seasoned campaigners.
'slHv-S aBflKMHwl 'AaBT'jfyiLIIIIH it JmWM which is to fonn part Of the puni- get Villa. Mules and men arc
RISHHI', U. '&
CAR-SERVICE
ASSURED FOR
YEAR AT LEAST
Settlement of Grievances Makes
Traction Strike Impossible
for Twelve Months.
COL. JIM PARKKH, of tbe Eleventh Cavalry, San Antonio, Tea.
I.ONUUN. March 12 There has bci'ii
a hilsk spint of uar wngcrs nt I.loxls.
Lets linvo boen made of .1 to 1 li-it
iHHco wll! not be declnied bcfoio De
lember I 10 to fi Hint the wai will not
be ended before January
Occoquan a Paradise
Compared WithRefuge
Of City's III and Needy
Washington cares for its lawbreakers better, than it
looks after its indigent sick.
A convict is sent to Occoquan. He is housed in a
bright, healthful dormitory. There is no overcrowding.
The ventilation is excellent. His meals are well, prepared
and served. He is surrounded by every modern personal
convenience.
One of the city's poor friendless and sick and mis
erable is sent to the Washington Asylum Hospital. He
is herded into a ramshackle firetrap of a wooden-walled
ward. It is gloomy and crowded; the atmosphere is bad.
There is no ventilation.
His brief hours of sleep between pain are broken by
the groans of his next unfortunate neighbor, whose bed is
less than eighteen inches distant. His meals come to hinr
from an outdoor kitchen, cold and unpalatable, smeared
with a film of chilled grease.
Perhaps his ailment is not as bad as that of some other
i nfortunate whose ills are clamoring for a hospital bed.
If so, because room must be made for the worst cases, he
s moved to a basement room or to a bleak, windswept,
unsheltered porch.
The physicians and nurses who attend him are overworked and
sadly hampered. Common conveniences are unbelievably few.
If the patient happens to be one of those unfortunates of good
family who often are sent there suspected of being insane, the Wash
ington Asylum for him is a purgatory to be endured between incar
ceration in St. Elizabeth's or release. He goes into a grim, barred
building which was. once the District alms house. He may be suf
fering only from a nervous attack or alcoholism; yet he is penned in
with maundering, hopeless maniacs, in rooms where there is no at
tempt to segregate the races. v
, Washington can no longer afford to overlook conditions at the
Washington Asylum Hospital. Wayfarers upon the hundred pathways
(Continued on Tagc Seventeen.)
TROOPS CROSSING
BORDER AT 3 POINTS
Forces From Douglas March South Six Miles From
Agua Prieta, Skirting Western Slope of Sierra
Madres; Censor Keeps Lid Down.
UNION WINS (UtANY POINTS
Companies Grant Practically
Every Demand Made by
Their Employes.
United States troops are on Mexican oil today and the pursuit of
Villa has begun.
from Douglas, Ariz., there came today confirmation of reports that
the troops have gone across the border.
The apparent plan of attack is to encircle and surround Villa before
he reaches the fastnesses of the Sierra Madres mountains.
The Douglas dispatch says:
"Advance guard of American troops have been thrown across the
border, starting pursuit of Villa. Large bodies of soldiers are leaving
Camp Douglas for Mexico. Advance evidently being made simultan
eously from Douglas, near Columbus and from near El Paso. Troops
from Douglas marching South on road six miles east Aguas Prielas, skirt
ing western slope of Sierra Madres."
With the pursuit of Villa actually on and the punitive expedition in
to Mexico a reality, the Administration is today without advices as to
the attitude of General Carranza.
Regardless of whether Carranza helps, hinders, or actually opposes
the American expedition, the die has been cast so far as the United
States is concerned.
The soldiers of this nation are today in Mexico, and there they will
remain until Villa is captured.
This may take a week, a month or worse. The American expedi
tion may remain only punitive. t If Carranza's acquiescence eventual
ly should be lacking it may mean genuine warfare.
The fact that the censor passed the Douglas, Ariz., message indicates
that the censor is willing that the world should know the crucial step
has been taken.
The publicity lid was clamped down tight at the War Department
here today.
Details of the military movement against Villa were consistently
withheld. Secretary Baker said this information would be regarded as
strictly condentfal for the present. Three additional regiments of
, (Continued on Poge-Sixtcen.) .
Satisfactory settlement of griev
ances reached by confere'es for the
traction officials and omployes
and indorsed at a meeting of the
unio'n early today, insures Wash
ington against a repetition of the
street car strike for at least twelve
months.
The agreement expires twelve
months from today, at which time
the Carmen's. Union, which won
practically every point at issue in
the strike, may resume negotiations
with the companies looking toward
further increases in pay and
changes in working conditions.
FINAL AGREEA1ENT.
As a rceult of almost five days' con
ference, the representatives of both
sides ncrced upon tho following aa a
final settlement of the. gilevances.
Inferential recognition of tho car
men's union by the companies whoe .of
ficials wijl deal from time to time with
permanent srlcvances committees rep
rcrentatlng the men;
Increase of 2 cents an hour for all
employes of the Washington Railway
and Electric Company, nml a new salary
j scale for Capital Ti action men which
1 makes the Increase for ten-ycar men
Vt cents an hour;
Guarantee of right houis' rest for
carmen between "runs," which meann
they will complete, their work witnm
sixteen onsecutle hours, instead 01
elshteen nd twenty, aa heirtofote,
Itavlsion of the schedules so as to in
duce tho day's nork to upproxlmateb
ten hours;
Reinstatement of the Ihirty-one. men
"discharged for belonjlng- to the
union."
Pay foi men called to the ha .IB and
held for more than an hour without
.being actually put to worn.
Work for extra men when era dul
1 must ho performed, thus relieving the
regular men.
. Bonus Syntcm Goes.
As i lesult of (he Krr.nttiiK ot the.ee
i' mnndt the Washington Railway
(,nd ttlcctrir Company todv abol
1 lied tU pront rhaitntr rytem. and
the Capital Traction Company will
I pay its last bonuses on Arrll 1. The
I bonus;') aro not due until -Inly 1. but
I the company will ndance the dat-,
deducting the two niorlhi' allowance.
1'iot) tlui bonus, aiid abolish the boniu
sstem.
The now wace and houi scale will
hocoiru efrectlvi un both lines nest
Wednesday.
Althounh the motornien und ennanr
toia lone considerable mom-v by th
abolition t f the profit sharing ar.d
bonus byxlema. the wnce Increases
granted Ihviv will more than equal
tho ltinio Linns nald hem. In many
( ,iseH tho atrcieputt Increuxe per man
will be morn than double the rmotint
of th'i bonuses nml juofit sharing div
idends . ,
In addition to his, tno wages will
ie n certain!', the men being paid
or nlcht. wliiieas die profit har
lug dlxjdmd. vi nlwaya uncer
tain. Itono of Contention.
Recognition of the union and the de.
mnntl that employe bo given the right
to lake tlclr ensea to arbitrators If dif
satUfced with the ticatment accorded
them by the companies was the bono
of contention which extended the con
ferences Into live days Instead of thwn
and threatened to nullify; all the labots
of the conferees.
Tho companies' officials emphatically
announced their determination not to
grant this demand when tho conferences
first began Vednesdoy. They dlscuaaed
It for hours on each of the allotted
thri'O days, and they went to tho Dis
trict building with the recognition or
permanent grievance committees and
demand for recourse to arbitrators ah
the lsauo which deadlocked them and
held up the settlement.
It was Mtnost 4 o'clock this morning,
after feerelnry of' Labor Wilson, Con
ellmtoriyilnin Hrnwii nnd the three
bl'tjlct nvnUMoii'ii. huil liiiKed roi
Inn,, IUi tin i . ii , nlf-nM
X
