Ste wm
MOTTO.
VCt. XXI M M.
COLUMBUS, MISS., SUNDAY MORNING. MAKCII 12. IIH
Srm W.tUr, 2 W; WUr, 11.00 if Year.
STIBUIIID SUES iPKE OF Dll
PC
0Cll SAM;
SOTS. IF WE VVST 10 GET ANT PUCt
UTHLrV
WE Mull ALL rill To
KEMPER C0IB1T ill SCHOOL FID
MIOSIS IIICIIl'I; DHL IS DEFEATED
IMIIt'SlMlt Ml IT 111 III VHOYMIU AM'.MMf.S I IS
L ur uiiuo
1IMSIII
lilli
coi,ii j mm
SAYl CIVIC CHAMBER IN
JURED HIM BY PLACING
NAME ON LIST.
MEDICINES ADVANCE IN
S VALUE AS EUROPEAN
i WAR PROGRESSES.
ASKS DAMAGES
LIST INCLUDES
IN SUM OF $5,(XX)i STAPLE ARTICLE
Suit Filed in Circuit Court Fri Quinine, Calomel and Caatof
day bjr Hon. E. M. Holme,
Attorney for Plaintiff.
AIU-Kntf that his standing among
merchant and among citizens ha
been injure! by the Credit Division
Oil Have More than Doubled
In Price.
On of the greatest hardship that
the people of thin rountry hiivt ex
perienced since the outbreak of the
of the Chamber of Commeiee European war has been the rapid ad
through the placing of his name on vanre in the price of drug. Sicknew
a list of persona who do not meet visit the homea of plutocrat and
their financial obligations promptly, proletarian alike, and muny poor
J. A. Strickland ha filed euit against, pp!,, have suffered from the inf la
the organization for damage in the tion in the drug market,
sum of $.'.,000. ! Nearly all the drugs most corn-
Some time since the Chamber of monlv used an household remedies
Commerce established a Division of have advanced appreciably in price,
Credits, and merchants prepared lists and the value of castor oil, quinine.
of delinquent creditors which were and lalnmel has more than doubled,
furnished the secretary and sent out The latter chemical, as is Well known
by him to other merchants contribu- contains some elements of quicksil-
ting to the support of the organize- ver, and at the present time is being
tion. One of these lists included the broken up in order that the quicksil
name of Mr. Strickland, and the suit ver may be extracted therefrom,
damage followed. This ingredient goes to belligerent
The suit was filed ir iht circuit countries to be used aa a fulminate
court by Hon. R. M. Holmes as at- on cartridge caps,
torney for Mr. Strickland, and will . It is suid that in addition to the
come up for a hearing at the April scarcity of chemicals resulting from
term of that tribunal. Hon. E. E. their increased use and Inadequate
Callaway, of the firm of Callaway transportation facilities is being Br
and Storey, will represent the Civic gumented by the unwonted activity
Chamber of Commerce in defending of "war brokers." These brokers, it
the action.. is generally understood, send tele-
; Mr. W. H. Carter secretary of the grams to wholesale druggists and
Chamber of Commerce, yesterday manufacturing chemists in all parts
made the following statement re- of the country offering to pay big
prarding the pending suit: "Of course cash nrices for certain Jrugs. These
ny Individual is at liberty to bring "raids" on the part of brokers and
iuit whenever he thinks he has a agent have been in progress for sev
trievance to warrant it against any- eral months, and as a result the stock
body he pleases. The issue joined of wholesale dealers in drugs and
here has been decided by the courts chemicals everywhere are in a de
1n Viiis coun.iy-mtnry-timw thai ii V.ttuidiuKi. --""" r " w "
ought to be a settled matter. The In discussing the situation one of
Chamber of Commerce in none of the most prominent wholesale drug
its divisions has ever wronged any- gists in the south recently said: ,
nn and so far as slandering- anv- "There is hardly an item in the
body is concerned, it would be im- drug line that has not been affected
possible for any of its acts to do that, and the retail druggist is really con
I regard the suit filed by Mr. Holmes fronting some very serious problema
as the most absurd suit at law I hnve in the conduct of his business.
ever heard of and I hope it will be "Quinine has been more plentiful
fouirht through the court so that the during the last sixty days than for-
whole plan of conducting the credit merly, on account of a cargo of bark
. bureau may be reviewed by the Continued on page four.
courts." '
Mr. Carter stated that he is not in
the least worried by the suit as he Clare Kimball Young in "Camill.
knows it will be successfully con- Princeae Tomorrow.
tested. Mr. E. E. Callaway volun- The attraction for Monday, March
teered the services of his firm, Cal- 13th, is the World Film Corpora
laway and Storey, who are members tion's masterpicture deluxe, Clara
of the Chamber of Commerce, to de- Kimball Young in "Camille," a big
fend the suit, which act the mem- lavishly staged photo-play in six
bers of the Credit Service Division reels, which is based on the world
appreciate very highly. famous play of the same name in
which the renowned Sarah Bernhardt
Senior Will Give Play. ! created a sensation throughout the
The Seniors at the I. I. and C. are civilized world,
going to give a play, "The Man from ' In producing "Camille" nothing
Home," the last week in April. 1 he was i pared in making it one of the
cast will consist chiefly of some of biggest photo-play successes of the
the characters in "Such a Little year.
Queen." This play is to be staged and Matinee at 3:30 and 4:45; night at
presented by Miss Ema Ody Pohl. 7:30 and 8:45.
While in New York several years 1 There will be an especially ar
ac,o Miss Pohl saw the play by Wil ranged musical score played by the
liam Hodge in the title role and is Princess orchestra.
most enthusiastic over the fact thivt 1 Admission, children 10c: adults
she is to present the Senior 20c.
class in the play. She feels that theyj Coming Tuesday, March 14th,
are narticularlv adaDted to give, dainty little Marguerite Clark in
"The Mart from Home." I "Out of the Drifts."
te'it-v-
AT ll KAlIt 15 V I PO
MOtlKY
I'lillSIDIiliOVLIi
HV(il'V in-NCMII'.K
i
I(rlulion lavuriri Crealton
j Of 5tte llifhwaf Cu.n.'
i n it Adopted.
vol i n ro 'an in ttir
1TA1I. 5I.N A H,.
roNSlWll'lIVLS'K)
iiavi: A iihmi:
It, I! Carrying ApprapriatwH
for Twi State Cl!'fe
i Stfely Patted.
A , r
! ,illi on U ipnni! ."ci l y
I idliiil pi if I'ftit ! m'fi po-r fil
n i U ivniH- Mtxlttv. who r
lill ? f Kail', Km irf? .i--l "f ' J
of the (.ill ri.vi linir f-r a rh1i"'' nt th
! n ii i -r -f -li-'r.!",' th- .a' '
iii. ii ly uri-p-l the p i..lf of Knipfi w hol fund Th Sim,tp on t
, ,r,-v to do lli'ir full slmrt- Inward had un.l.-r i i.iMt l.T! ...n a pr.,
.1 fin- li.i.i ..f tl, i.rnl Mil, In' lillll'llilnirlil In Hf ( i.n '.'ih'i lif
ir.fitrr whirh H In l-f lil ualr ttn'e ronliluMori, which iru.t
i I bun
1
-Moiljt in Spunt S,joi','"!in .,. .
WEST POINT SELECTED !CHPT. CORNELL ANNGUNCES
IS HOSPITAL SITE
NEIGHBORING TOWN WINS IN
FIGHT, BUT MOTION TO RE
CONSIDER IS ENTERED.
A recent dispatch from
says
Jackson
POPULAR MAN OFFICIALLY EN
11RS IMPENDING MAYOR
ALTY RACE.
J. 6. IMF IS M ASPIRANT
FOR CffloILK HONORS
WELL KNOWN MAN WANTS TO
REPRESENT WARD FIVE
ON DOARD.
Mr. Joe B. I.ovc has entered the
race for councilman from the fifth
k has been generally known for
"West Point Wednesday nf- some time that Mr. E. S. Donnell
ternoon won the fight for the North would offer for nomination as mayor ward, and his announcement will be
Mississippi State Hospital over Tu- in the coming Democratic primary, found elsewhere in this paper,
pelo, by a vote in the House of 6' and his official announcement- for, M. IjOVe is t0() weu known to the
to 11. But Tupelo won by almost r.s this office will be found on the edi- p,.,,,,, 0f Columbus to require in
big, a majority over West Point a torial pane of the Commercial this lt.,)u(,t jon 0P ecomium at the hands
few days ago, and as a motion to re- morning. f th . Commercial. He was for a
consider has been entered, the fight There is no man in Columbus (ln, Uiw vmmCi with the trans
is not yet over. The hospital fight who is better known, more highly es- ,lrtatjon department 0f the Mobile
consumed nearly the entire day, teemed or more usHersally iand Ohio railroad, at.d after having
forcing the iiartying"ovtr of two im- pecUd than Mr. Lowell. During ,0rit arm vvhi)( tnKi,rt,,j n the riis
portant bills as special orders. They a Ion;; period of public service he
are the workmen's compensation has held many positions of honor
act and the bill appropriating $125,- and trust, and in none of these has
000 for the Mississippi centennial he been found wanting, having dis
exposition. charged every duty incumbent upon
"In the Senate the penitentinry ! him faithfully, conscientiously and
support bill carrying an appropria
tion of $452,000 was passed, as also
was the bill bringing the state under
the provisions of the Smith-Lever
without fear or favor.
Prior to his defeat by Hon. W. C.
GuiiU-r two years ago Mr. Donnell
(had served the people of Columbus
f ail aval tutu urViwVl oaf tin f ni1 linv'!as mavor for nearlv a decade, and
ItilVliii lun n mi ii v v . r v; ' i
corn clubs and similar works. This I never in all its history did the city
hill nnrripa iin nnnronvintinn nf $7fl.- have a more faithful or efficient
000. The Senate next passed House
bill appropriating $32,000 for the
support of the state board of health
UNCLE MM'S SOLDIERS
NOW READY FOR EXPEDITION
Washington, March 11 Instruc- send Mexican troops across the bor
tions conveyinar full authority to der and into the United Mates in
General Funston to send a punitive pursuit of bandits.
expedition into Mexico to capture ' Officials are very careful to em
or kill Francisco , Villa, leader of phasize that the expedition was in
Mexican bandits who entered Colum-! tended in every way to uphold the
bus,N. M., Thursday morning and hands of the Carranza government as
killed 16 Americans, were in the recognized by the United States. It
hands of General Funston Saturday. was admitted that grave doubts ex-
Secretary of War Baker announc-; isted aa to how the Mexicans would
chief executive. His long career as
a public servant has enabled him to
acquire knowledge and experience
All three bills had previously passed1, that are exceedingly valuable to him
the Housa. I'" directing municipal affairs, and
"By a vote of 26 to 14 the Senate i policies inaugurated both by him as
passed a bill amending the state an individual anil by tne city council
bank guaranty law of 1914, provid
ing a way to deal with recreant
bank officials and increasing the
amount of the guaranty required."
IS
MAN ARRESTED HERETHOUGHT
TO HAVE KILLED OFFICER
AT WAVERLY HALL, GA
charge of his duties, was given a
plnce as keeper of the company's
bridge in the southwestern suburbs
of the city. After having held this
position for a number of years he
tendered his resignation to enter
the transfer business, and now oper
ates th largest enterprise of this
character in the city.
In the regular pursuit of his
duties Mr. Love comes in daily con
tact with practically all the mer
chants and business men of the
city, and is therefore exceedingly
will known. In addition to operating
a transfer line he has also been for
many years the local weather obser
ver. ami has discharged the duties
of that position faithfully and ef
ficiently.
Mr. Love is honest and conscien
tious, and if elected promises to
faithfully discharge the duties of the
office for which he is an aspirant.
fur a mure ennui li -f r it. ut n.ri of ti, i
fund, but the mea-ure deffate l.
Although the rroiutin fuiied to
receive a conititutiunal majority,
required, the effort of the propon
ent of the plan will nut be abandon
ed. Mr. Midehee, the younite.it sena
tor in the body, made an earne-t
upreeh in advocacy of the proposal,
i declaring that the Legislature can
be trusted to give the white children
of Mississippi a square deal; that
distribution
f "Old Hickory." the
rniiM iitmn adopted a resolution
favoiihg the creation of a Mate
hh'h mmniiMion.
Hon. Guy Uember, the pouplnr
proie uting attorney of the Sit
teentll circuit court district. pre
sided over the meeting and deliver
ed tin opening tiddres, in which he
not only extended to the visiting
delec ites a most cordial welcome to
De halli, but urged them to get to-
L'ethtr and settle upon a definite
ol.in. declaring that nothing could i the present system of
be accomplished as long a the peo- i grossly unfair, giving some of the
pie d vided themselves into factions, i counties much more money than
with each faction urging the adop- j they need, while other counties are
tion of a different route. He unid j barely able to sustain their school
that in building the proposed high-1 for the required constitutional per-
iy it would not be practicable to i lod of four months, many having
literally follow the old Jackson closed inside or tnree monms, ne as
trail, but the route must be diverted serted.
in conformity with the ideas and ; At its arternoon session tne en
method of modern engineering, as ; ate unanimously adopted the House
this as the only way the promoters ! I'-dl framed by Representative Oscar
of th scheme could hope to secure Johnston of Coahoma to create
a portion of the $25,000,000 recent
ly appropriated by the federal gov
eminent to assist the different
farm land bank system in Mississip
pi. The bill was carefully explained
to the Senau by iu author, and
states through the Union in the con- j passed without material amendment,
struclion of good roads. The Senate rejected the joint
A resolution presented by Chair-1 conference committee report on the
man Rencher indorsing the creation general appropriation bill. Under
of a state highway commission was ' the terms of the conference report
vote in the coming primary
foregone conclusion.
no oilllFi
In Charles Bonner, a negro now in
custody here, acting local officials , support, and that he will poll a heavy
think that thev have a mar. vote in the coming primary is a
who is wanted for murder, for, ac
cording to Bonner's own statement,
he ran away from Waverly Hall,
Ga., after having been accused of
killing an officer of that place.
Bonner, who is said to be half
witted, on Friday went to the home
of Mr. W. A. Smith in the eastern
suburbs of the city and frightened
members of the household. The
sheriff's office was notified by tele
phone, and the call was responded
to by Constable W. H. Foreman
and Chief of Police J. A. Morton.
The intruder was arrested and taken
to the county jail.
Upon being questioned by local
officials Bonner stated that an offi
at his behest have resulted in saving
the tax payers of Columbus thous
ands of dollars.
While Mr. Donnell is conserva
tive lie is by no means niggardly,
and always advocates any construe-J
tive policy which he believes will I
hae a tendency to upbuild the city
and advance her interests without
entailing extravagant and wasteful
expense, lie was tne iirsi man 10 ,
advocate the municipal crematory,!
which is now being so successfully ALSQ ACREE T0 SELL TICKETS
operated, and his long udministra-i
tion also witnessed the erection of
a standpipe and many other Im
provements of lesser importance. t
Mr. Donnell has many loyal
friends who will gladly rally to his
adopted by a unnnimous vote.
Hon. J. M. Mcl'.eath, of Meridian,
was the first visiting speaker intro
duced, and delivered a stirring ad
dress, lie said that the Mississippi
route was one of the two traversed
by the official pathfinders, the other
trail passing through the state of
Alabrma, and declared that it was
up to the Mississippians to complete
their route before the Alabamian
complete theirs and thu secure iu
adop' ion as the official course of
the Jackson Memorial Highway.
W. H. Carter, secretary of the Co
lumbus Chamber of Commerce was
the next speaker. He urged Kemper
county to get busy or be left off the
salaries of employees in several de
partments were reduced. The Sen
ate stands pat on its determination
not to allow any salary cut. A
new conference committee was
named.
The lower house spent most of the
time considering the Everett bill
neeking to amend the incom tax law
so that the state could receive larger
revenues by provisions calling for a
graduated. scale on. incomes of in
dividuals and corporations from
$2,500 per year upward, amending
the prenent law providing a tax of
five mills on incomes exceeding $2,
000, a flat rate, so as to include cor
porations, and scaling the amount
highway of national importance, j "P to $20,000 on which sum and
IMS OF CIVIC LEAGUE
0ISCOSS CLEM-OP 01.1
FOR THE COMING CHATAU
QUA ENGAGEMENT.
which was worth more than a trunk
line railway to the citizens of the
county. He declared that the Mobile
and Ohio railroad had builded 14
miles from Columbus, because the
people of that town were asleep,
and they have regretted this fact
ever since. He pointed out the im
portance of laterals to the road, il
lustrating with reference to Hager-1 mK vote
more a tax of five cents on the dol
lar would be required. Amendment'
were adopted eliminating the cor
porations and raising, on a scale
basis, taxes on individual incomes.
Just before the House adjourned
at 1:35 o'clock it passed the income
tax bill, after it had been discussed
for several hours, by an overwhelm-
town, Md., a byroad on the national
There were two measures of out-
, j: .1 .1 u..
highway. He declared that Alabama I standing importance tiispowu . ,
had Engineer Kellar, who was 8 I the Legislature Thursday. The Sen
busy man advocating the highway, I te, by a unanimous vote passed a
GERMANS RE-ESTABLISH THEM
SELVES IN CORBEAUX WOODS
AT HEAVY COST.
ed that General Funston will be
given discretion concerning the num
ber of men to send and the routes to
follow in pursuit of Villa and his
bandits.
It U expected the expedition will
move before Saturday night.
look upon the matter. The ill feeling
against the United States has con
stantly been growing throughout
Mexico and there were many offi
cial military experts who believe the
Carranzastas and Villastas will unite
to oppose the .United Statea. The
Carranza's ambassador here has j men holding these views and they
indicated that Provisional -President
Carranza would not oppose the expe
dition. Carranza, through United States
Consul Silliman has requested the
permission of the United Statea to
include some of the leading states
men here insist that thew are con
vinced that the United States would
have to pacify Mexico and create a
government there that could be up
held.
Members of the Ladies' Civic
League met in regular monthly ses
sion at the Chamber of Commerce
Friday afternoon, the meeting hav
ing been presided over by the presi
dent, Mrs. William Baldwin, and hav
ing been devoted to the discussion of
several different matters.
Probably the most important nu't
ter to come up for consideration was
the selection for date for clean-up
'day, which is held annually under the
auspices of the league. After an ex
pended discus ',ion it was agreed to
i leave the selection of the date to the
'executive committee, which will n et-t
10. Throwing Monday afternoon and decide when
Continued on page 4.
Continued on Page 4
T
1
London, March
large masses of infantry agninst the Columbus will undergo the annual tit
French in the Corheaux woods, to ivation process.
the northwest of Verdun, the Gel-1 The ladies also agreed to sell tiok-
cer was shot at Waverly Hall some mar,s, after several attacks in which ets for the Chatauoua entertainment
time ago and that he was charged jtney are ueciareu uy runs io nave wnicn is w u K'ven "ere oy oim.i
with the murder. He said he did not ! suffered large casualties, have re- furnished by the Redpath Lyr jum
STATESMAN
J
IS
taken part of the wood from which Bureau next Mav.
the French had previously ejected
Republicans Call Stat Meetinf.
Jackson. Miss.. March 11. Chair-
commit the crime but became fright
ened while other officers were pur
suing him and ran away. Officers ! them.
on Friday afternoon sent a tel- j The entire region about Verdun
etrram to Waverly Hall making in-1 continues the Bcene of intensive op-
quiry about the negro, but up to last erations. West of Douaumont and man W. O. Ligon has issued a call
night had received no reply to hia the sector embracing the village of for a meeting or the Mississippi
message. (Va'ux have been points against which State Republican committee in
the Germans have launched vicious Jackson, March 29, for the purpose
Mr. Eugene Beard has accepted a infantry attacks, but at both places of setting a date for a state conven
position with the fun. of V.'. C. j their tfoi U -l.-nce broke doTTi tion to select candidates to the na
Beard. Inc.. and will be found there under the heavy fire of the French, tional convention. Four delegates at
in the future. (according to Paris.
'large will be named.
Washingtou, March 11. Former American politics. During his dis
united State Senator Henry Gassa- tinguished career he fought to main
way Davis died here Saturday morn- tair it. He later represented the
ing aged 93. Uniited States Pan-American confer-
Mr. Davis will be buried at his ences at which by his personality
former home in Elkins, West Va. and speeches he strove to strengthen
Senator Henry Gassaway Davis the bonds of friendship between
witnesed and participated in the North and South America,
greatest political epochs of Ameri- Senator Davis' active political ca
can progress for more than three reer began the year after the war
quarters of a century. He was the between the states. He was elected
"old fashioned gentleman" in the a member of the house of delegates
Senate. His utterances were those of of the new state of West Virginia,
the Jeffersonian days. and next served as state senator.
"Liberty and free government West Virginia sent him to the
have always been secured at the United States senate as its first
cost of great aacrifices," he said on Democratic representative in 1871.
one occasion. "But history teaches He served two terms with distinc
us that both can be easily lost with- tion. He ceaselessly urged Congress
out the knowledge of the people." to help the farmers by establishing
It U significant that he was born an agricultural department
in the same year, 1823, at Wood-1
stock, Md., that the Monroe uoetrii.e! ii.. Uu P.-JZS. ?7?r Wld.jr
became a fundamental principle in, in Tupelo.
