UNIVERSITY MISSOURIAN
41
EIGHTH YEAR
Ik proTessors put out
COLUMBIA, MISSOURI, SUNDAY, MARCH 12, 1916
NUMBER 164
not camhrate for coyerxor
SMALL FOREST FIRE .
Itiil lr. .1. T. M. Johnston Toll Ash-
Iiiinl He Muv Hun for I. S. Senate..
Dr. J. T. M. Johnston, St. I.ouis
anker, announced yesterday after
noon at Ashland, his former home.
CHAPERONS' FANCIES PREPAREDNESS STIRS U.S. TROOPS AWAIT
ALSO LIGHTLY TURN
that h would not be a candidate for
Ouiet of estmount Is Dis- governor, but that he was seriously ; It's Christian Colletre Now
turned by Spark From
M.K. &.T. Engine.
considering riming tor United States
senator. He also said he wanted to
be one of the delegates-at-largo to the
National Democratic Convention in
That's Having Trouble
About Girls' Dates.
NO DAMAGE AT ALL "st. Louis.
Speaking to
But Just the Same, M. U.
Men Do Valiant Service
on Burning Brush.
i crowd which gath-
, ered from all over Cedar township to
hear him. Iioctor Johnston, in regard
to his candidacy lor senator, said he
would place the decision in their
! hands.
After his talk he was indorsed both
! for senator and state delegate.
Doctor Johnston is said to have
; come here fully intending to an-
) nounce his candidacy for senator, but
that Hoone countv Democrats dissuad-
Prompt action by University facul
ty members residing on Tliilly avenue,
in Westniount. prevented damage from
a miniature forest tire late yesterday
afternoon. The blaze began when
....I-., frnnl tlin Ptlfrltlfl nit ttin tilllltli-
'' ' .. . "... i i'J him from doing to at this time,
bound M. K. & T. passenger train fell I
iitinni' some hrnsh and ilrv leaves on :
the hillside south of Thilly avenue. 0W Al M'
Soon there was a small fire. (, ((
Westmount had taken advantage of
the clement spring weather to lay j
HE1TBMCAX CUR
5 NABBED IN STORE
President's Detective Work
Gets Results 13 in All
May Be "Campused."
POLITY CLUB DEBATE
Pierre Porter of Kansas City
Advocates the Real Thing
in U.S. Defense.
AND THEY ALL TALK
I. Students Will Organize at
Meeting Thursday Xtelit.
The organization of a University
out its gardens; some worked and Kepublica" Club was begun yesterday
others advised. I'eace ruled. But at ! at a raeeting, composed largely of stu
the firsts signs of the tire, spades i ,Ients. at the office of K A itcn,ley.
and rakes were thrown aside, and , Mr Keniley reviewed the political
Westmount rushed forth to protect its situation and urged the organization
homes. ()f a student Republican Club. He
Those living closest to the scene pointed out that by the provision for
arrived first. Snatching each a sap- the Votlnc of persons awav from
ling from a pile belonging to Prof. home students would be able to cast
J. W. Rankin, they dashed headlong their ballots in Columbia.
down the hill and flayed the life out; A mass meeting of all Republican
oi tne tire, ine late comers, uenieu ; students in the University will be
this opportunity for service, had to ; he!l at T:30 o-el0ck next Thursday
rontent themselves as mere on-look-: night in the Y. M. C. A. Auditorium,
ers- Officers will be elected.
Among those who fought the (lames ,
were: Prof. 0. 1). Kellogg. Prof. J
W. Rankin, Prof. C. M. Reed Prof.
0. M. Stewart, and Prof. W. D. A.
Westfall. Numerous of the youngo.
generation, of course, threw their
hearts and souls into the fight.
There was no damage.
VI) CUR TO MEET TOMORROW
lilt. POWERS HERE ALL
Plan for Annual Carnival ami Adver
tising Will He Discussed.
Tiie University Ad Club will me?t
it 7: SO o'clock tomorrow night in the
! V. M. C. A. auditorium to discuss
plans for the annual carnival and for
WEEK advertising the University.
- , All presidents of county clubs, the
Former Stanford Professor Will Che j Woman's Council, city and sectional
Fhe Lecture ai the War. j clubs and two representatives from
This week Dr. 11. 11. Powers, pres- eac, department of the University are
idem of the Ilureau of University j eligible for membership in the Ad
Travel, formerly professor of econom- I club. All are urged to attend this
ics and sociology at Lcland Stanford, meeting.
Jr., University. Cornell University and ' This is to be the first meeting since
Smith College, will be in Columbia to the new officers were elected. Ben
lecture at the University Auditorium Long, a senior in the School of Corn
on "The War in Europe: Its Perma- merce. is president,
nent Causes."
"For sixteen years." said Dean Wal
ter Miller. "Doctor Powers has been
traveling in the interest of research
work and the study of the economic
iaiiy those of Europe, and the causes i Columbia Democrats Decide Ie
.More signs of spring:
"Privilege G," allowing seniors
"chaperonless dates" on Holiday and
Saturday alights, was taken from
several Stephens College girls last
week.
And now the punishment is being
meted out to thirteen students of
'Christian College. At least it is go
ing to be, for past experience and
college rules have taught the girls
that they cannot be caught holding
clandestine meetings with men in a
confectionery store, going to a pic
ture show or car riding without be
ing punished in some way.
That's what thirteen Christian
girls did last week. Moreover, Mrs.
Luella W. St. Clair-Moss president of
the college, knows all about it.
Mrs. Moss was given a "tip" last
Thursday that some of her girls were
having dates with men in a confec
tionery on North Eighth street. No
matter who gave the "tip." The girls
think they know.
So the situation was nothing short
of dramatic when Mrs. Moss walked!
into the soft drink dispensary and
there saw five of her girls sitting at
tiie tables with men.
One of the men later said that you
could have cut the silence witli a
knife. Mrs. Moss finally broke it.
"Girls, come with me," she said.
As if that wasn't enougli for one
afternoon! Rut no: A little later in
the day the college authorities learn
ed that some of the girls had gone to
the movies. Five more girls are said
to have made tip the movie party.
Only natural that a collega girl would
want to see Francis X. Bushman.
Harold Lockwood and the rest of
these modern Apollos.
Whirlpool of Discussion
Draws in Both Soldiers
and Civilians.
WORD OF COMMAND
TO GO INTO MEXICO
A member of the Ford peace party,
a lieutenant of the National Guard, a
law professor noted for his belief
in world peace and several members
of past and present debating squads
.of the University were among those
taking part in a discussion royal on
prparedness led by Pierre Porter, of
Kansas City, secretary of the National
Security League, at a meeting of the
International Polity Club Friday night
at the Y. M. C. A. Building. Analo
gies drawn from medicine and law,
disquisitions on the differences be
tween theory and fact, the value of
talk, the benefits derived from mili
tary training, and the beauties of pa
triotism aided in lengthening the ordi
nary meeting into a two and one-half
hour battle chock full of enthusiasm.
At the request of the members, Mr.
Porter explained the purpose of the
organizations of which he is secretary,
and told what it is accomplishing.
Is Hacking Preparedness.
"The National Security League." he
said, "has its headquarters in New
York City. Most of the large cities
have branches. Our purpose is to
create sentiment in favor of prepared
ness. We wish to arouse the people
to bring pressure on Congress.
"Some persons have accused us of
being backed by Pierpont Morgan. I
CA RRAXZA HAS ASKED
IF HE .MAY 1XVAHE V.S
liy Prilled Tress
WASHINGTON. .March 11.
Secretary of War Baker said
tonight that General Fumttoii
had been ordered to hunt down
Villa. When he sends his com
mand across the border, he is
to keep them there until Vil
la is taken.
Word of the movement of the
American troops across the bor
ber is momentarily expected.
Secretary Lansing has not yet
made up his mind regarding
Carranza's request that .Mexi
can troops be permitted to cross
into American territory to hunt
bandits.
Little fighting between the
Villistas and the Americans is
expected until the latter reach
the hills twenty to thirty miles
south of Columbus, where Villa
is believed to have taken refuge.
i Equipment fs Being Over
hauled, Horses Reshodand
New War Supplies Distrib
uted to Men Along Border.
CARRANZA MASSES
ARMY ACROSS LINE
AT
Germans Continue to Feel
Out Weak Spots in
French Line.
Government Officials Fear
That Purpose of First Chief
Is to Oppose, Not to Help,
Pursuit of Villa Forces.
I!y United Press
LONDON, .March 11. Tne Germans
have redoubled their efforts against
Verdun in the last twenty-four hours.
at the same time systematically feel
ing out the weak spots in the French
By United Tress.
EL PASO, Tex.. March 11. Word
from General Funston is all that is
being awaited to begin the movement
of troops into Mexico. Equipment Is
being overhauled, horses reshod and
new war supplies distributed. Villa
was last reported enroute to Guzman,
Mexico, more than fifty miles away.
Carranza forces are massed across
the border from Columbus, N. M. High
ovemment officials fear they are not
there to aid but to oppose the Ameri
can forces.
It is generally believed"" that the
United States officers are awaiting suf
ficient reinforcements from the in
terior to leave the border guard in
tact in the event of an attack by the
Carranxistas. They do not want to
go into Mexico leaving the border
unprotected.
A report from Douglas. Ariz., told
of the army officers there speeding
up plans for an immediate invasion.
The troops are expected to be so well
linn f nu nf 1 ..! Kn nn ...1..
wish we were. Others have said that . ' ' ... ,, , prepared that there will be no chance
. . ... ins the, French line with hi" shells ....
...a ...a..a T.1.l 1 I.n .... .!..... . n " -r.
Paris admits that the line lias been
thrust back at several points.
we were helped by the munitions ma
kers.
'We try to raise sentiment for pre
paredness against war, not for war.
The film 'The Battle Cry of Peace, a
frankly propagandist picture, has
aroused much feeling.
"Our purpose is to prepare for the
1 future. We base our work on the be
I lief that the present condition of the
'armv and navv is not what it should
DELEGATES ABE NAMED
of these conditions. I was with him ,
two years ago on the Nile, and I know
that he will more than interest the
people of Columbia in his lectures."
At T:"0 o'clock tomorrow evening,
the subject of Doctor Powers' lecture
will be "Tiie Problem of the Adri-1
atic." Tuesday night. "The Problem !
of Constantinople;" Wednesday night, i
"The Problem of the Baltic:" Thurs
day night, "The Problem of the Far i
East." Friday nicht. "Resume and
Forecast."
on Men for Countv and
State Conventions.
Ml PHKSS ll.'EXT HERE. HIT
Somebody (.'els Away Willi Local The
ater Advertising Picture.
Somebody with a mania for photo
graphs Friday night broke into all the
display advertising cases used down
town bv the Walnut Street Theater
and took all the pictures that W. 15.
Cage, owner of the theater, was using
for advertising material.
Mr. Gage threatens to employ
guards to protect the pictures.
Two factions were represented yes
terday afternoon at the meeting of the
Democrats of Columbia township, but
aside from nominating men for chair
man and secretary of the meeting, the
weaker faction hardly got started and
j the program of electing delegates to
the countv convention here nevt
Tuesday went through without a
, hitch.
A committee recommended the fol
lowing men as delegates from Colum
bia township: .1. S. Rollins, Senator F.
j(l. Harris, Boyle G. Clark. H. A. Col
' lier. F. L. Johnson. Virgil Hawkins,
George Griffin. W. II. Thomson, B. C.
And then the final straw it was h,e. We are not thinkinc of the nrcs-
learned that three more girls had cnt war but wo feel that history has
t gone automobile riding. j s)lora that the teachings of the Bible
So thirteen Christian College girls I are not applied by nations. We are
! expect to be "campused" to receive i facing a condition, a fact,
the verdict in a short time, if they j .1ork ar.ei- I Opposed,
.haven't already, that they cannot '.i,n- nm vnn pnl.i t meet this
ave the campus of the college. , fact? We wish to meet it bv prcpar-
vvhich. in the eyes of a college girl, j 0(lllcss Wc want congress to listen
upholds the statement that some peo-1 to the army al, navy (.xpcrts. Wo
p!e get their share of the bad place want to eli"n,inate tiie' 'pork barrel.'
" earth- "i ,10,,'t know exactly what plan is
necessary or how many ships or men
we need. I'm willing to leave that
to experts. We need a definite na
tional policy. We haven't had it
m regard to Mexico. Are we going
to insist on the Monroe Doctrine? If
we are, we must be prepared to back
-!) AT IM'EUHLY NA31K11 IIAM'K
.Mine Sinks Riisian Warship.
Ity United Tress
SOFIA, .March 11. The Russian
torpedo boat Leitenan was sunk yes
terday by a mine. The ship was pre
sumably sunk off the Bulgarian coast.
THIRTY HOUSES BK1XK $lrVMI
of failure and no costly mistakes.
The ambulance corps, field wireless
and two batteries of field artillery at
Fort Bliss are expected to accompany
the Fourth Cavalry and Twentieth In
fantry on the first dash into Mexico.
Two companies of the Twentieth In
fantry were sent to Deming. N. 31.,
tonight to guard against another Villa
raid.
M. r. CARETS IX LOXG WHIM
(Jailed Mares and Stallions Sold by K.
II. JToore.
Inirty Horses, bringing approxi
mately ?4,r.00 were sold at E. D.
Moore's sale of gaited mares and
stallions Friday Rex Thornton was
the highest price horse. He went to
Porter Taylor of Montgomery City.
at tn ci non
,. , ,, . . , , .iKiiiun mi iiiu .luiiiiui leuerai mspec
Th following horses were sold:' . ,. . .
Regiment Practices Field Work for An
nual Federal Inspection.
It was a tired but enthusiastic cadet
regiment that marched back to the
campus at 4:30 o'clock yesterdav aft
ernoon to be dismissed after the first
of the Saturday extra drills in prep-
HMine aiay He a Candidate.
C. U ("Curley") Ristine, captain f j ga,,p
Hunt. J. It. Mitchell. A. C. Bayless. T.
B. Long. J. E. Gillespie. D. V. Vandi-
ver. W. I
Jacobs and G. B. Sapp.
The following eight men were
Defoe, J. L. Henry, J. E. Boegs. is. W.
named as delegates to the state con
vention: F. L. Johnson, S. C. Hunt. J.
B. Boggs. B. G. Clark. F. G. Harris, B.
W. Jacobs. J. S. Rollins and G. B.
Hall and Chain Sliuflle Attracts Crowd.
Filling Col u in bia Hall.
The Ball and Chain Shuffle, which
has caused much comment because of
its distinctive name, attracted 200
dancers Friday night, filling Columbia j !t "P- What is our policy in regard
Hall to its capacity. The admission1'0 the Philippines?
fee was only 63 cents. The ob-; "Once we have our policy, we need
ject was to prove that a dance could t a board to carry it out. and this board
be put on within the reach of all I of army and navy experts must not be
pocketbooks. Refreshments were serv- hampered by Congress. These are the
ed, too. (things that the National Security
A feature was the entrance of about League stands for."
two hundred engineering students who
Relieves War Will Sot Pass.
I Wanted tO Show tllC WOrld that St. Pat- . Tlnlno. rn n,l tnr Ms norannnl vlnurn
Dysart, II. R. Walker, I,. M. ; rji.-s n.. ...ns nni.. ,vppt. nff Tliev! i.. ii . ,ini,.n,i
... . .. . .- wll M cjmitruiiuoo, -ll. lUHtl UtLIUlVU
paraded around the floor, sang their that men will always fight as they
song and gave their yell. The danc-have in the past,
ers stopped and joined in the yells. "An international court to solve all
If, after all the expenses are paid. jour disputes without war is an irides
the management "breaks even," there cent dream," insisted .Mr. Porter.
the famous inon Tiger football team,
will probably be a candidate for prose
cuting attorney in Lafayette Coun
tv at Hip novt npmncr.itip nrimarv.
according to the Higginsville Jeffer-Jlege will leave for Fayette on a Katy
sonian. Mr. Ristine practices law in special tram ai ., "u lu,..u..u
To FajeMe in Special Train.
About 100 students of Stephens Col-
Mr. Ristine practices
Lexington, the county seat, where he
is a member of the law firm of Lyons
& Ristine.
Wornall Heads Claim llepartnient.
Kearney Wornall, a graduate of tiie
School of Law last June, who has had
a position in the legal department of
the Kansas City Railway Companies,
has recently been made head of the
claim department of that corporation.
afternoon to see the basketball game
between Stephens College and Howard-Payne.
This is the last game on
, the Stephens schedule. Stephens Col
lege has won one game from Howard
Payne this year 21 to 20. The team
and the rooters will return at 10:,10
o'clock tomorrow night.
will be more dances of the same. nature.
EGGS FREE TO ('HIM)REX
Poultry Association Will Stimulate In
terest in Show.
The Boone County Poultrv Associa
tion met yesterday afternoon in the)
courthouse and organized a children's
department, whose purpose it will be
to interest children in poultry rais-
"Look what happened to Belgium, Po
land, Serbia or any country that is
unprepared. Men must be prepared in
am- walk of life. And so with the
nation.
"Let us take the question out of
I politics and run it as a business propo
sition. We haven't got the guns, the
ships or the men. If we prepare and
i war doesn't come, we're all right. If
! war does arrive, we're ready for it."
At the close of Mr. Porter's speech
Ben Rex, Reckless Boy, Rex McCutch-
eon. Chocolate cniet. t'leuurne Den
mark, Nellie Rex. Floy McDonald,
Aileen McDonald, Mertie McDonald,
Black Stallion. Sumpter Denmark,
tion April 10. For three hours the ca
dets were given rigid instruction in
bayonet exercises and battalion close
order drill. A cold wind made- the
men drill briskly to keep warm.
As there are only about six weeks
Hue Blood, Austin's Dare, Raven D. . -
,. . r ,, r ti !! t.,.,1, ,.!' which to take up the work required
Minnie C McDonald, Miss Ruth. Bay, ' ' "
. . ' .... 'to pass the inspection. Cadet Colonel
.uare, ueaui. june iviimain, uvuu-
light Denmark, Daring Dick, Billy
Denmark, Rex Thornton. Highland
Barricer, Rex .McDonald, Rexeta, Sa
die Bundy Roselle Superior, Peter
Sterling.
RIG CROWI! AT HITT STREE I
IL R. Gibson, acting commandant of
cadets, says, that hard and persistent
work by the cadets from now on will
be necessary. The wet weather dur
ing February has kept the corps con
siderably behind, and Saturday drills
FIREjvvill be held every week until the in
spection. During that time extended
Street Blocked While Blaze Is Fouglit ror(er wH, ,J0 emphasized.
tos. $i.(ino. ;
A crowd estimated at 2,000, consist
ing of students, Saturday shoppers and
business men, witnessed a fire at 3:4.". J Jfrs. . r.. WWrott Receives Check
o'clock yesterday afternoon that do-1 !"" $."i-"( From White House.
stroyed the upper part of the house at j A check for S.'.no from the White
10S Hitt street, owned by the Garth (House was received in Columbia Fri
estafe and occupied bv E. H. Guitar , day afternoon.
i SOLI) WAIST TO MISS WII.SOX
lllir A SPtUnc flf fltrtrc tt'iII . .Ii-nn
o . kiij ,,. . T. i. , the meeting was thrown open for dis
i" "n. V.1UIU inii:it:Mi;u 111 pumirv rais-:
ing on condition that two of the brood I
be entered in the next poultry show.
, terdav of the birth of a daughter.
Illinois star Gels Kiia Jl. Maryanna. to Mr. and Mrs. Floyd Mc
George Clark, University of Illinois Bride at Phoenix. Ariz. Mr. McBride
pridiron star, has been made assist- is a former Columbian and a former
ant football coach at Kansas to sue- j student in the University. Mrs. Mc
reed Jay Bond. Clark will help Coach i Bride was Miss Rubye Duncan of Pop
Olcott In developing the .Tayhawks and j lar Bluff, a frequent visitor to Co
will begin his new work next fall, jlumbia before her marriage.
! ('. H. S. to Rebate at Roonville.
Daughter for Flovd Mcltride. , Columbia High School will debate
Word was received in Columbia yes-at Boonville with the Kemper Military
Academy at a date to be decided later. ;
The question is: "Resolved that the!
United States should have an army of ,
a million men and a navy second onlj"
cussion and the fun began. Mr.
Porter was backed by Earl E. Major,
organizer of the local machine gun
company. Opposed to them were Man
ley O. Hudson, professor of law, and
Lue Lozier, who was a member of the
Ford peace party.
Star's Musicians to Columbia.
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Ziegler. who
to Great Britain." Columbia will take formerly conducted the orchestra at
the negative. The school also expects the Star Theater, will conduct the or
to debate with the Jefferson City High chestra at the Columbia Theater, be
School. j ginnjnfj with Monday's matinee.
on the first floor and Mrs. J. II. AVaugh
on the second floor. Fire Chief E. N.
Kurtz estimated the loss at $1,000.
The large crowds, hindered the fire
men in their work. All traffic on Hitt
street was stopped.
The contents of the house were ful
lv covered by insurance.
The check, signed in a small hand
by Miss Margaret Woodrow Wilson,
was sent by her in payment for a
waist, which she had received on ap
proval from Mrs. A. L. Westcott of
1402 Windsor street.
Through a letter written by Mrs.
Wilson's secretary. Miss Wilson ex
pressed her rileasure with the result
of her shopping by-mail in Columbia.
The waist was of sheer material.
THE WEATHER I
Hipp.'" I"ii'd Saturday Mnniinc). 'mn,iQ ,.n .uu ii . . . . '
Kor CoInmliU and Vlriulty: K.iir and : maae "n n'th smocking designed by
Pair and wanner Smi-
iMrs. Westcott.
warmer Sunday,
For .VHyiwri:
ilar.
VVtithr f'nmlitlon.
The i-ontrnllinjT weather feature Satur
day morning was a well formeil hsU prison-
wae that reached from mean to
mvaii. and the weather was typical of
that ii-iiallr associated with this type of
hlirh. iM'In-.-elear and line, althonch rather said that Billy Robinson
eo 11 lor ine lime ill me e;n ill iuiiw n
sill tie. Ontiiile or Its ilomlnatln
Hilly Robinson. Aviator. Killed.
I!r fritted Pre
DES MOINES. la.. March 11. A
dispatch tonight from Grinnell. la..
aviator, a
in-l holder of long distance flight records.
Iluenip. that Is In the extreme south, north ff, wj, i.fq macblno it Fwirf Ti
anil northwest, the weather w.n still some. ' W,UI ,,,s macrnno at hwart. la.,
what unsettled, but precipitation bad 1-een j late today and was killed.
unimportant. ! "
The fns-zlnsr line of J2 degrees was ;
almiit 2i w mile farther south .satiinlayl 1)orse Stone Return Home.
mill!?, an'l I -rn""'i i H.I.IIHHI1U, ..ui in- i
em .rKnnn. trienre on e:i-i Tiirinin i
Northern North Carolina: 7fr coniiitnon".
on the other hand, hail practically illsap
peareil.
In I Oinninia SJencran. mil .mu -inn--
what warmer weather will prevail over
Similar. Temperatures will ranee from
aliont '-" at nlsWt to above 40 In the daytime.
Dorsie Stone of Kansas City, who
has been in Columbia representing
the clothing firm of Gordon & Koppel,
rpturned to his home yesterday. Mr.
Stone is a nephew of Mrs. T. M. McDonald.
