FINANCIAL EDITION
X
NIGHT
EXTRA
NIGHT
EXTRA
vxsemn
r
i
vol. 11.-30. ida
PHILADELPHIA, M OX DAY, FEBRUAUV US, l!10.
CortRiatiT, 1010, bi inn rtiuo Lidom Courtttt.
PItlOB OKH3 CENT . J
i
GERMANS TO SINK ALL SHIPS
WITH GUNS, LANSING IS TOLD;
NO DELAY IN
IBfernstorff Delivers Re
ply on Armed Liners.
Asserts British
Orders Forced
Measure
n1l!., Cnnrla f"!nnlncj nf AIIpctivI
JJCrilu uw !- -e"
Orders to English Mcrchant-
; men uraemia xnum m xxi
1 tack U-Boats at All Times
Passengers on Unarmed Ships Will
Be Snfc Virtunlly Nullifies
Flcdfics Given in Lusilunin Case.
Wnshiimlon Views Situation as
Vory Critical Further Discussion
V Conn
K
WASHINGTON'. Feb 23
IScrmaiiv today, mrouBii iiu.i
wn Hcrnloiff. foimnlly notified tho
United Stntc Hint tliero Is no such tliinp
as a merchantman armed for dcfenslvo
purposes TJio German position, very
franklv stated nt a conference between
(he Ainu.is'.u1oi nnd tho .Sccictaiv of
State, hh that nrniiitiiont of nn chai-
acter Is offensive armament so f.ti ni
merchant vessels aie conceited As a
result of tho confeicnee. the 'subtnaiitie
illtu-itlon li'in.iteilnllv Braver, although
thcro still l a possibility that the ma
terial points of difference will he .subject
to further rtlplnm Ule negotiation
Tim AiniinxHiiloi arrived at tho State
Department nt II 10 a m . on an appoint
ment made .it Ills own icquesi rmiuuiiv
he had confenert with n iron 13rU.li Zvvle
dlnek the Austilan Chaige Tho lattei
had received instructions tod ly from
.Vlemu that the oiderH sent to tho Ger
'man Anibassadot weto to govern him In
his negotiations with tho Fulled States
As a result the Klntemcnt of Count von
Bernstorft lepiescntcd tho joint position
ef,tho Teutonic l'owcrs
MAKE'S I'OSITION CLFAU
The German Ambassador very franKlj
Ktokl Sccrctar Lansing that thcro could
Uh8 no reason to assume that the piomlses
previously mule by Geimany. tint tlio
rules of Intel n UIun.il law would bo
strictly observed, vvete not nbtldged by
the determination to sink armed mer
chantmen on sight" and without warning
Peaceful ships would Ji'ive every pio
tectWin. ho wild, but Germany cannot as-
!?siima that any armed vessol no matter
where her guns nrcr curilcd. n a peaceful
Bnip And ho Insisted that secret ordcra
of tho UrltlHh Admlialty liavo absolutely
abridged and nullified tho pledges pic-
Continued on I'nce lour. Column Two
MINISTER GETS DEATH
BLOW IN AUTO CRASH
Eev. Wm. Ettinger, of Quaker-
town, Struck by Trolley.
Dying at Allentown
ALLENTOWN. Pa . Teh -'8 Tho llov
iWMIIain L'ttlngei, 10 eirn old. of Qual er
.town Is dying at tho Allentown Hospital,
and James Hrunner, of the same place. Is
In a Berlous condition as the lesult of a
trolley crash with their automobllo at
Brush crossing, ncal Zlon HIM Tho auto
mobllo was smashed Tho clcctilo cai
cwas coming from Philadelphia, duo hero
frit 10 o'clock
V It is wild that the slgn.ll bell at Brush
crossing, Just Installed as a unit of tho
new bafety devices which tho I.ehlgh Val
ley TranHlt Company Is putting on at n
ooot of J37E.000. was ringing loudly, and
Its arms were waving
f Bam Souder, tho veteran motoiman In
chargo of tho car, It Is said, blow hla
whistle, but the uutomobllo came on, was
'struck and cairled about 200 feet Tho
;ylc(lms, who vvoro brought heto on tho
ckr, were not Identified until Brunner io
Mined consciousness nt about t o'clock
He said ho did not heel any nlarms nor
see the car approaching Hrunner lias a
broken rib and It Is feaicd ho may havo
a fractured snlno Tho Rev. Mr. Rttingei
la unconscious from n fracture at tho base
of the skull anil It Is believed cannot re
cover, ,'
; THE WEATHER.
And ordinarily, with today, this brief
month would end; but astronomical con
ditions over which wo lyive no control
will require another 24 hours of cold Feb
ruary After which we pi ay that March
will come In like a lamb to balance the
fact that February Is going out like a
Hon. Tho docile way people accept this
leap jear tampering with the calendar is
hi sharp contrast with the old method of
sturdy revolt against such Interferences
JVhen it was ueces&ar). In the 18th ren
tury, to skip IX davs to catch up with
the speeding planets, the peoplo protested;
they thought they were getting cheated
out of an appreciable part of their lives.
Splve us bad. our It dajs!" they cried,
and for a while were all "agin the Oov
0n,neut " rcrhaps we are too docile now
Says. For now vyo blame the Govern
ment only for things like poor crops, un
!2$ky Investments we have made, catas
SSphes abroad and the frailty of human
gjyuie in general
(why not also blame the 'Government
Sri the weather and for things calendrical
,vell
FORECAST
Fnv Hlitlnifulnhin mill VieinltU
SoiVond continued fold tonight; Tuts
WJ increasing cloudiness and sldwly
oH'iff temperature, probably followed
nj anow or rain at night; moderate
ngrthtoiist winds becoming light and
friable.
LOST AND rOUNP
t If t Jtut kuhricirv JA MbOUt 3 16 OH
. 7 . i.i.i . c w n I.... u nor
U ot Un I. sick Itssard If rxiuroed to
i un.nl minium
l Nub tvward
Witt x.t 4wTMri " V! W
SUBMARINE WAR
U-llonts to Sink All Ships
Cmryiny Guns, U. S. Is Told
Germany and Austria stand pat
on their declaiation that they will
sink turned moi chant ships without
Warning.
As a result, ofTleials'say, a hrcak
with the Teutonic Powers seems
ncaier than ever before, although
every effort is being made to find
a way out.
Count von Dernstoiff told Secre
tary Lansing there was no such
thing, in tho opinion of Germany,
as n "met chant vessel armed for
defense."
A similnr statement was made on
behalf of Austria bv Baron Erich
Zwiedinck, tho Austnun Charge.
Secretary Lansing made no ic
qttest for a postponement of the
proposed new submaiino warfare,
neither did he accept the Lusitania
offer, which has been on his desk
for ten days.
The position to bo taken by tho
Administration is cnrefully guarded
by the President and Secretary
Lansing, who decline to intimate
what their next step will bo.
Congress will wait exhaustion of
diplomatic cfToits beforo taking any
action if the leaders arc able to con
tiol both houses, as they say they
expect to.
Gorman submaiines will toipedo
no passengei lincis without warn
ing, even after tho new older
against armed mcichantmcn goes
into effect at midnight Tuesday, ac- '
coining to special cable advices
fiom Beilin this afternoon. I'ur
thcimoic, submarine commandeis
will endanger human lives only in
cast a ship attempts to escape, to
file on tho submarine or to ram her.
PASSENGER SHIPS
TO BE WARNED OF
U-BOAT ATTACHSSTERN SMALLPOX
, , . I MEASURE CALLED
Lives Not to Be Imperiled if i ,-,-, . ,,.-, TTmT11 . tt.
Liners Observe Decree, MENACE, OUTRAGE
Correspondent Says ',
' ' f Wholesale Vaccinations De-
HOSTILITY WILL BE FATAL ag Dangerous
By CARL W. ACKCRMAN
IJIJRLIN', 1Y1i. JS
German submarines will torpedo no pu.
hcngcr lineis without warning, oven after
the new older against armed mei chant
men goes Into effect at midnight Tue&
ilav, I was roliabl) Informed today
ruithenuorc submarine coimuandcis
will eiuHnger liiunau lives oul In cas-o n
ship attempts to c-eape, to lire on tho
Mibmailtio, or to tarn her
This was tho I let word given out hero
tnd ly. with tho beginning of tho new C
bnat campaign against aimed mei chant
men, hut u few houis off Tho statement
was in.iilo whllo olllclnls'weie still ioii
templntlng tho stiong utterances of l'resl
dent. Wilson In IiIh lettei to Chairman
Ktone. of tho Senate Foreign llolatlons
Conunlttee, utterances described by high
oflldalH of the 1'nielgn Olllco as "hnpres
fclve" Ah the hoiu foi tho iuauguiiUlon of tho
new ciuupilgn uppio iches. tho iicstion of
a possible illplnm.it k' break with tho
I'nltid Htates Is iccelving greater ouid
ciatlon hcie Ollkl.ils and the public; nlllco
fiankly admit today that they hclievo
Aineiici's attitude in tho pending negotia
tions is unfriendl)
In thcli new campaign, I was Informed,
U-boat commanders will act under theso
Instructions-
They will not torpedo every ship en
countered, trusting to provo later that
they were aimed
Thoy will not violate InstructlmiM pre
viously given to warn passenger lincis
They will not endanger human Uvea un
less tho ships attempt to escape, to ram
tho attacking submarine or to llro on her
In fchoit, the difference betweon tho past
and the mescnt. as concerns pasieilgcr
liners, Is that li) tho future armed liners
will not bo considered legitimate peaceful
tiadiug ships
It can be stated definitely that Ger
many, b the new regulations s not court
ing trouble with America nut If tome
future accident endangers Americans or
causes American losses, Germany will be
convinced that the responsibility will not
rest with her, Inasmuch as she has fully
warned Americans publicly and the Amer
ican Government offlcIall
President Wilson's letter to Senator
Stone, first published here jesterday, has
caused a sensation In Government circles
and In the American colony I islfed the
1'oielgn Office, the Admiralty Office and
tho offices of Berlin editors toda The
Wilson letter had had the effect of u
thunderbolt out of a clear sky. German
leaders aro surprised that President WIN
sqn has coupled the controversy over
armed merchantmen with the question ot
America's national honor,
EDWIN MOORE SERIOUSLY ILL
Complications Follow Grip in Case of
Manufacturer
i;dvvln Moore, president of the Moore
Push Pin Company. Is In a serious condi
tion at his home 2125 Venango street.
with complications which followed a severe
attack of the grip
Chaplin's Life Insured for $250,000
NKW 1UHK. Feb. 28 Charley Chap-lin-that
fuimy film teller was us solemn
as an owl today Having signed a year's
contract culllug for $70,000, he saw- pa
pers bJgned HP by the Mutual Film Com.
puny tnsuillig his life for $250,000 Chap
lin expect to start for Chicago Wednes
da Boy Killed by Trolley Car
Nnw-ysur-old Frank rtlUr, of 1031 lit
Mojameiialug avonue. was struok ly n
trolley car at Id sjyl Lmsu 4treu tU
ufteraoon. The boy did vvlUle helus
UMtM W tb MC Slual UotpitaX.
-t,
fjfcsff?gaJg5j
GKAND DUKE FRJEDRICIl
KKANZ
Mccklenbuig - Schwcrin noble,
who heads the "lion Guaid of
Biandenbuig," which took Fort
Douaumont at Verdun in a spec
tacular charge.
to Entire City
ISOLATION IS URGED
The vaccinating ciusnde undci tnUeii by
tho Bureau of Health and Charities In
West Philadelphia, and In tho neighbor
hood of 22d nnd Klniball streets, as a re
sult of tho finding of two cases of mil ill
pox. Is i hai.utcilzed as mi "outiago" by
uieinbers of tho Antl-Viu dilation League
of Anierlla. who invert that tho no-calkd
prccautloiiai measure will result In n
spread of tho disease and that an epi
demic may lesult
The .sentiment of this group ot Phlladel
phiniiH was slimmed up toda h Poitei '
Cope, secietaiv of the Anti- an Illation
League at his olllce In tho Crozor lluild
Ing, who hald'
"Tho method pursued In Philadelphia of
vaccinating multitudes of people Indiscrim
inate! leads to tho vpread of Hinallpns.
because the suppiesslve effect of vaccina
tion in ikes it ImposHible to determine who
aio Hiiffeilng fiom tho eftects of vacclni
tlon and who aie suffeilug from sup
pressed or 'masked' smallpox
"A iccently vaccinated pciMin may
havo a suppressed case of tlio most ma
llgiinnt tjpo without exhibiting anj ex
ternal evidcuco of being infected with
tho disease These aie tho persons who
escape quaiautluo and spread xmallpo
CAUSi:S OF SPUKAD
"Tho vai loua epidemics of hinnllpox
that hnvo swept over Philadelphia have
been duo to defectlvo notification and de
fective isolation, resulting from the Im
possibility of recognizing smallpox fit
many persons who had recently been vac
cinated 'Tho vaccination of today does not con
sist of coupox inoculation, but of Inoc
ulation with the living germs of human
smallpox, modified by passage through
animals These germs aio apabo nf pio
duclng smallpox In susceptible Individuals
under certain condition and In this way
vaccination keeps tlio smallpox alive.
"f the public oiilclals of Philadelphia,
the medical profession or an citizens wish
to know nnythlug about tho antl-vacclna-tlon
point of view, our hoadepiarters are
here to give them Information on the sub
ject, but wo do not propose to attempt to
force our views on the public "
VACCINATION AHANDONED
Dr Cope cited the smallpox legislitlon
cf Kngland as a. step in the right direc
tion, and showed that Loudon, with a
population of 4,500,000, has abandoned
the systtm of compulsory vaccination with
astounding results The system now ob
taining there provides for Isolation of
smallpox patients, and careful observation
of all who have been exposed to the dis
ease The most recent activity of the Bureau
of Health in the vaccinating crusade oc
curred today" when mo-o than -100 men,
women and children were awakened at 4
o'clock and without the ceremony of
drt.lng were vaccinated .
The district bounded by the south side
of Carpenter stieet. the north side of
Washington avenue, the west side of 22d
and the east side of 23d street roped off
today by the police until every resident
had been ' scratched" or Isolated This
was the second section of the clt to be
quarantined with In 24 hours
Twelve hundred persons In Wet Phila
delphia were Vaccinated yesterday morn
ing when the Department of Health ami
Charities discovered that WalteirReed, a
negro, of 41-7 Ludlow street, had been
Buffering from smallpox and had been
walking about the neighborhood and rid
ing In tlie cars unrestricted A quaran
tine was also established there until the
haalth authorities were satUfUd that
ctvjry inwatble means of preventing a
spread of the lualady had been taken
Steven Vogel of 401S Market atret, la
CoHtlMUMl on rate Mflern, Column Tho
i
GERMANS BREAK CHAMPAGNE
LINE; FRENCH THROW BACK
ATTACKS NORTH OF VERDUN
Teutons Take Navarin Farm in New
Drive Gain 1600 Yards of
Trenches and 1000 Prisoners.
Paris Aclmits Loss
Crown Prince Checked in Effort to Capture Village of
Douaumont, but Makes Slight Gains Along
Meuse Fort Du Souville Reported
Destroyed
Checked in the diivc on Verdun by tho nrrlvnl of Kicnt bodies of l-'icncli
lcinforccmcnts, the Geimuns arc now extending their mighty offensive to tho
Chnmpngno region, 10 miles west of tlio Verdun woods.
An official stntcment fiom tho Geiman War Office this afternoon vir
tually confumed Fiench statements that the Voidtm onslaught has been
hnltod, temporarily at least, by the French.
At tho same time, Ilcilin reported the cnptuio of moic than 1000 yauls
of French trenches and tlio strongly fortified Navaiin faim, the sccno of des
perate fighting in cailicr combats in the Champagne. The gain was made,
Berlin reported, after "efficient artilleiy piepaiation," indicating that big
German howitzers wcio brought into play in batteiing an opening for the
attack, as at tho beginning of the Vcidun drive. Moie than 1000 Trench
prisoners were taken.
Parii this afternoon admitted the loss of tienches in the Champagne,
attributing tho German gain to a "suipiifec attack."
For the first time since tho Crown Piinco launched his gtent attack
against tho Fiench fottiess, the Geiman War Office this afternoon claimed
no important gains in the diicction of Verdun. Berlin asseited that all Fiench
tioops have been cleared out of the Mouse loop, in the legion of Champ
Neuvillo, five miles north of Verdun, and added thnt the Geiman lines had
been advanced further in the diicction of Vacherauville and Bias,vfotir miles
north of Verdun. .
Before the Teutons can make substantial progress in the diicction of Hi. is
and Vacherauville, they must storm and captuio Fiench positions on Pepper
Heights, to the cast.
Both Berlin and Paris this afternoon loported heavy fighting ovci the
ruins of Fort Douaumont, the dispatches, however, being contiadictory.
Paris leported the it-pulse of heavy Geiman attacks against the village of
Douaumont, just north of the fort. The Berlin War Office claimed the ic
pulsc of new Fiench attacks against the foit and positions sui rounding it.
Germnn attacks in the region of Fiesnes, believed to have been part of
n German plan to squeeze the French out of Vcidun, aro diminishing in
violence. Paris this afternoon leported the lepulsc of Germnn attacks just
northwest of Fresnes.
' PATHS. J"eb 2S
The French War Onice announced till"
aft) riiooit that the Hermans ai o being held
In check at Verdun nfforls of tlio Kai
ser's troops to capturo the foi tilled v Ulagn
of Douaumont havo failed the olllclal
communique stated It admit, however
that Fort Douaumont Is clobely sui
loundcil In conjunction with their offensive
against Vereluii. German forces have also
lannc heel fresh attacks In tho t h-iinpagno
region The communique ndmllH that tlio
Cleimans jructinteil wimo advanced line
tienches nnd a suppoi ting trench near
tho Navnrlan farm, north ot Sounln
Tho following Is the text ot tho olllclal
communique:
"In Belgium out battciles havo boni
baided German organizations beforo
Stecnstrate
"In Champagne, in the region of tho
Navarin farm, north of Soiialn. tho enemy
Miccecded in penetiatlng b a surpiiso
attack Into norao trenches of our advanced
line and out suppoi ting trench
'To tho north oP Verdun the bombaid
ment has lontlnued with Intensity evei
whero In the central sectoi and towaiel
our right No new attack upon tho Coto
Do Polv to (Peppei Heights) w.n niiido
jesterd.i Lato hi the day tho Get mans
iiiado hovornl attempts to capture tho -v. II
lage of Dou.iumniit Thcli efforts wero
shattered ngulnst tho roshetnuco of om
it oops, whom tho most furious assaults
wero unable to shake
"Tho situation Is unchanged nt Fort
Douaumont. which Is closcl surrounded
"Tho battle Is less severe on the pla
teaus to tho north of tho village of Vaux-
Continues! on I'nKe Four, Column I lve
NAWOSPEDALEPERSA
DAVANTI A S. GIOVANNI
Bulgari Hnnno Evacuato la
Linea da Loro Occupata
Verso la Grecia
Fn telegramma da Jtoiun dice die la
nave-ospedalo Mare Chlaro o' aftondata
davanti a San Giovanni dl Medua per
avere urHato coptro una mlna
Telegramml da faalonlcco dicono che le
truppo bulgaro lianno evacuato Monastlr
ed altrl puntl delta llnea dl battaglla
verso la Grecia II Comando degll nlleatl
a Salonlcco rltlone cho 1 bulgarl sono statl
sobtltultl da tcdescbl ed austrlacl e che
essi sarauno implegatl altrove N'on o'
improbablle che I bulgarl si slano lecatl a
rlnforznre la llnea dl dlfesa verso la llu
inanla, II cul uttegglainento non e' nncora
ulcuro
Attomo a la grimde fortea fiancese ell
Verdun coutlnua la sangulnosa battaglla
Inizlatavi scl grnl fa Seinbra che II
forte Douaumont sla tuttora nelle maul del
tedeschl, bebbone I francesl hunno potuto
portaro grandl rluforz! per operare vlolentl
contrattacchi A Berllno si auuunula che
un altro forte dl A'efdun, il Souville, e'
rlmasto dletrutto In segulto ad una eplo
slone cuusutu da un prolettile tedeMo Ma
i bollettlnt francesl e tedeuchl non sono
affatto d'accordo. Quel che bembra certo
e' che le perdlto da ambe le parti Kino
enorml
(Leggere In 7a nagtnu altre e plu-' delta
gllate notUle Bulla guerra, in itallano)
UISIIOP FATALLY "BEATEN
The Rev. Thomas C. Carter, of Chat
tanooga, Dies From Effects of Assault
CINCINNATI, O Feb The Rev
Thomas C Car tor, of Chattanooga Tenu ,
a bishop of the United Hrelhren Church
died today from Injuries sustained w,heu
tie was assaulted sue) lobbed eight ds
ago
. "T
HnsinsUs dsi
ped from bruises which
the h)ghyami(
UlcUd upo the elsrgy-
man s isxe.
169 LIVES LOST
WHEN P. AND
SHIP HITS MINE
Women and Children Per
ish as Liner Maloja
Goes to Bottom
SLINKS OFF DOVER
LONDO.V. Feb 'S
duo hundred nnd slxt nine persons, in
cluding man women and chlldien tinning
tho r passengers, aio missing and proh
iitd lost In tlie sinking of the Pcnliihular
and fiilontal line Maloja, aiioidlng to io
vised llguics In giving out this Mateiiieut
tiidaj, odlclals of tho line epies"ed hopo
that flu liter rc-iucs will bo leported
Tito tevlsod llgures show that tlio Ma
loja carried 120 peipons. Including 110
passengers, and nccount foi only ;u0 ma
vlvois Tlueo bodies of Lascar callous of iho
crow of the Muloju wero lecnvered this
liinrning, biliiglng tho miinbei of iilcntl
lied dead in the Dovei maikct hall which
was converted Into u temporal tnoigue. to
47 rtoltitiven of missing p thsengcrs fiom
London ami other Fngllsh cities wero
Hocking to Dover toda
Reports that .Mis Me Lend, wife of t.en
etui MtLeud iif tho Urltlslt Aimy, had
been lost hnvo been cnullimeil Tho
liastengeis wcio nialnl oiilclals ot tho In
dian service and thcli families
All tho malls, baggago and caico on tho
liner wcio lost ,
Dispatches to shipping ollkes today
hi ought word of the sinking of tho Itus.
whin steamship Petshonga. tho seventh
vessel to meet disaster within tlio last IS
bouts IS of hoi crew having been landed
'Ihe otheis. In addition to the linei Muloja
and the impress of Foit William, which
went to her aid aro tlie British steamships
Hlrglt and Suevier, tho French steamship
Trlgnao and tho Dutch steamship Meck
lenburg About a scoro of women and children
were among those who lost their lives
when the Maloja turned turtle while doz
ens of smaller craft were hastening to her
assistance The bodies of li women and
children had been landed at Dover today
und placed In the Morgue for Identifica
tion Several of the survtvois aio near
death fiom exposure
All the survtvois who reached London
Continued on rase 'Iho, Column 11e
BITING WIND SWEEPS CITY
Tempeiature lUses, However,
Bright Sunshine
With
A biting 22 mile an hour wind from the
northwest Is the only reminder the city
has today that a heavy elle, following tt
Oung blizzard, rattled the vvlu'dowa and
shutters throughout the night
It Is nqt exceptional! cold toda, but
the wind drives through tho warmest
clothing and Into the cracks and tsams of
liousas, causing much distress and dls
comfort Ti'e lowsst temperuture today
occurred at 7 a m, when It 'as 20 de
gress. A clear sky and a bright sun sent
the mercur up gradually
bkaters Here disappointed this inorn
Ing when the, found onl a thin coating
of Ice on ponds and lakes 'the IMrk
Ukus were not opened to the public-
California Officiul Ditw Suddenly
iilVWUiiliiE, ci FcjL. 8 Usmsusut
Gov wow J" HsiiHlmsn scubrsd . Uecp
orrbg(ji at ths 3owtJiru Pwlftj Club, t
India, tpday, death resJttIng Jnstajwly.
QUICK
JTAL-IAN hospital
ROME, Fob. iJS The Italian
r.unk by 8 milloirt tho Adriatic
Albinin.
GK1JW OF SUBMARINED DENABY SAVED
NEW 1'ORir, iol. 28. All the crew of the oteamship Denaby,
recently sun5; by a submarine, wero paved, according to a report
received today.
NEW HAVEN ORDERS 50 LOCOMOTIVE
N'F.W YOltJv. Fob. "S.-An ottlcr for HO Pacific tjpo locomotives has been
plnccil bv Ilic Xew Yolk, Xew Haven und Haitforcl Jtiillroad -with tho Amcrlcart
I.ucoiuotivo Coinpnii).
BRITAIN TO LIFT BAN ON DYESTUFFS TO U. S.
WASHINGTON, Feb. 2S Ambassador Page tit London notlllcd tho State)
neiMitincnl tndav thnt tlio Hiltlsh Foreign Office has elecltlcU to penult tho ship
ment fiom Itnltciil.ini of $3,000,000 worth of Geiman ilcstulTs to tlio United
States.
Ah tlieto Is now u Goiitian cmbiic,o on elvestuITs It will ho necessary for tho
Gcimmt Gen ot anient lo lift It hefoio the shipment can be started. Negotiations
will he begun ut oiKo, It was staled, us American manufacturers aio badly In
need of die stuffs,. (
,
ONLY SIX PASSENGERS SAIL ON FRENCH LINER
'IJV .OIM. Feb JS Cnn.ving onlv K passengers, tho French liner
FspaKiic stiltd foi ItmileiiiiN todnv after bet elepittmo had been postponed for
li week Mine than 'U0 peisons had oiigiiuilly huoUi il passage on tho liner, but;
most of them wete liniisfeiieel to tho Lafuvetlc. Mis F Hanker Hilton, who
linil leielvcd an nnoii iiioiih winning that tho Hspugiie was to be sunk by a,
Get tnait .submarine, did nut Mill
ALLIED AVIATORS WRECK BELGIAN STATION
VMhTi:uijJI Fell L'S - Allied nil nun have uttarked and dcstrocd'tllo rall
vnv station and (lam iged the tunnel nt Ulebcig, a Uelglim town near Uiq Ger.
man fioutiet. Tlio town Is on the inilvviij connecting I.icse and Vcrvfetpu with
Ai-l.i-Chiipello.
PORTUGAL SEIZES THREE MORE GERMAN SHIPS
l AL, Aoivs, Feb 8. Hy older of the Government, (he Faul authorities
todav bcied the Getni.in steamships Sardinia, Seh.iumbcig und. Max, ho'lsting tho
PoitiigucfeC flng on ciicli vessel.
TIicmo three vessels have a total tonungo nf 0'23
MAYOR REINSTATES .QRAMj. CHIEFCLERIi J;
IlOiherl M Oiiiinr"orrr00SNol("li" Wtli' stietbt. who for many j cai"sorvc3"1
ns ciiief clcik en the- uuteii, but who resigned two earh ago, was today ro
inlss.il of .Uisejih II Kmim and will ussinno offie-o on AVodnc-Mlay. Oram rc
mlssnl of .loseph HLt Small nml will iibbumo office on Wednesday. Oram re
signed in Febunr, mi. at tho icqiiest of foimer Mnoi lllankcuburg and he
was Miee-cidcd bj Sniair, whoso place ho now- tukes Tlio pobitlon carries a
Mikity" of $1'000
CROWN PRINCE TO VISIT NEAR EAST, ATHENS HEARS
ATHFNS. Feb 28 Crown Pi Into Frederick William nf Gettnaiiy Is opectoit
to nmko a visit to Constantinople and Holla caily In Miucli, .iccoidltig to advices
thnt l cached official circles hero today.
FIRST ALL-RAIL SUGAR CARGO FROM HAVANA ARRIVES
A trnlnlontl of sugar shipped bv rail fiom Havana, Cuba, will artivo in Phila
delphia 1 Uo todti. It will be tho iirst nil-i.iil Hhipniont between these two points,
Tho train, consisting of 22 cais, rniijing TiOOO tons of sugar consigned to the
Finnklln Sugar Ucllniug Company, was loaded at Havana nnd landed at Key West
by the Meiimshlp Hoiuj M Flagler. Tho Hip to Ki-j West was mado in six
hours fiom Havana Tho cost of shipment l.s hiild to bo less than by tho ocean
route.
EX-MAYOR'S MOTHER-IN-LAW HURT IN AUTO ACCIDENT
Mih Saiah Jennings, nintlier-iu law of e.-Maot John Wcavci, Is in u serious
condition an a lesult of liijutlea iccelvcd when Mi Wcavei'n automobllo skidded at
IDtli anil Outniio Htiectn and cinslieel Into i tico. Mr.s. Jennings was thrown from
her scat, and Iior feitchcad Ktiuok itgainst tho dom. She was badl cut and bruised
about tho face. Mis Jennings, who Is Sb cum old, is being cued for at her
home, 3523 Xeiitli ilroud stieet.
LINER CEDRIC BACK IN TRANSATLANTIC SERVICE
SfiW OKIC,-Fc'li 2S Tito Unci Cecil le. vvlilch was in tho llrltlsli transport
seiv'iee slnco Xoveinliei , 101 1, m rived at tho Wlllto Star l.lno pier last night, com
pleting lici Hist tiip since she resumed lie ehai.icter as a mcichaut ship. The
Ccdric- ban a fte'tht c-aiijiiiK capacit of 17.000 tons, and her return to thcbuslness
of bundling freight Is welcomed bv shipping Inteiests. Tlio vessel carries no guns
mat tlio cIccKh bear no indications that the Unci was aimed while transput tint,'
IStltlali fcoldleiM.
,-000 CRAMP WORKERS GET 10 WAGE INCREASE
A substantial wage iucic.ise affecting C000 workmen went Into effect today at
Cramps' Slilpvtuel it amounts to 10 pei cent, ot tho wages formerly received by
the emplojes of' tho jaid, which now bus enough work on Its liunds to keep going
for, two ieais.
LIQUOR BLAMED FOR PNEUMONST FATALITIES
WASHINGTON, Feb. 28 "Alcohol Is tho handmaiden of pneumonia, which
pioducos 10 per cent, of the deaths in tlie United States," a Public Health Service,
bulletin said today. "This is no exaggeration. The liberal and continuous user
of alcoholic drink Is pectiliiul susceptible to the disease."
20,000 ANTITOXIN UNITS USED ON TETANUS VICTIM
Tivent)-blx thousand units of antitoxin havo been injected Into JQ-year-old
Hatty Miller, of Mechanics Valley, Ducks County, In an elToit to check tetanus,
from which tho boy is suffering. Approximately 13,000 units -were used on ths
boy by counto ph sielans, whllo 13,000 more liuve beeni Injected by physicians at
tlie Northwestern General Hospital, where the boy is now mwlient'.. ,3Van thou
sand more units will be Injected today. The boy's leg wus 4'it by il runiver on:
sled, while coasting tin ee vveekb ago,
TWO CANADIAN GENERALS WOUNDED BY SNIPERS
OTTAWA.'Ont . Feb. 38 Brlgadlei General A. S MaeDonneJl and Brigadier
General It. G. l.ejckie have been wounded while Inspecting tlieir troops on the
filing line, offteUtl cable dUpaJches said toda On Thurkdaj, February J7, a
da quiet bond tlie average on the Ckim&inn front, tlwy were caught by.
German snipers. General MaoDonuell was shot thnwdh Mie shoulder, and Gen
eral Leckle lecehed a bullet in the th(gb.
3 HELD FOR RECRUITING U, S. SOLDIERS FOR BRITAIN
HONOLULU. Feb 28 Clwrgad-wltli lecruitimf American suldlarp for sv
ice In the British aini, R Seilgsen alias W R bteiu, t D Randall, alias en
cterson alias Kuglau, and a ivceutly discharged sergeant of the tth lHitel Jltf
Cavalry named Jefferson, tave been ai tested here by United b la tea Mftrsit! iomph
J Snuddy Fiom doumenU found on the nersoas o the. own arrusLed and lu
Randall's tiuuk, it was learutd that 166 recruits had teen aevuied aad tkat i.i
cf them had gone to w fiont. Two othem were (.wjUIImc the ariivsl ot urn
Vteomet Niaewu from Australki (or Ittwb Oglumbl
NEWS
ship sunk by mine
hospital ship Mare Chlaro hatt been
Sea off San Giovanni dl Medua
J
Jl
