Vi
THE WEATHER FORECAST;
' i . V I.
Fair to-day and probably, Jto-rrtjijrrow J
rising temperatfe
tm.
IT SHINES FOP, ALL
Highest temperature yesterdMMy; iPHt, 20.
Detailed weather, mail ami inriirR'porlj" otl page 1 1.
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 181.
NEW YORK, MONDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1910. vy,-iahi. ni, by nu p,i,ug and n,bthHv Ai.ori.if.on.
PRICE TWO CENTS.
U BOAT WAR TO
GO ON, GERMAN
RRPl YINNTQ
am LI 1N01010
Jleniftoi'lTs Instruct ions (
)lii,v Kcopcu Knt ire ;
Submarine Issue.
nt(iKS THAT CITIZI.XS
Ol' I. S. ItF. V VlfVI'ini11'
,,. . ,.
ioiimir I aiupai'n Does .Not
.Nullify Assurances to
I'. S.. Is Plea.
PIUM)KS Sl'MIITTKI) OF
t."l'litl1VI ..nivp.i . '"v'' tfa'lll'.oi.i ul.lch
I 111'. IM 't (M PhK.VlKiM- mail' uo lit oud to h" AiiiiT'.i.il.ii,
land when vc n alKiut Hceklnj; safety at
th cxfHMixi' of humanity then I for one
Hint Teutons 3lihl llclcnt!
If Allies Stop Attacks liy
Merchant Ships.
CAMPAIGN WILL GO ON.
SAYS OFFICIAL ORGAN
prtial Vablt lrinith In Tur. ?n
Ukmm.v. via l.oiitliin, 1'rii,
Tho .VorvWciif.irii' AUitrmrliir ZI
tinip, the nlUclnl Uov.'rnin-i.t oi Kan.
ays to-day:
"Tho cnerwtk prr socuii m nf our
sulimarlno campa.n ulll 1 bouuu
on tho date appointed. .March 1. If
President Wilson maintain that
these measure: are ppel to the
etp'.lolt nxMiruncfs nf ( lei many
and Austria. kiicIi I'imteiitlni. rctx
upon a tnlumdersSatidlim-. since
these nsHurnncej! referred only to
peaceable, not armed. p:i.heiiBer
vessel."."
ttA?lll.T.Tos;. Keb, IT Count von
Vlfnf i PlY r.jnli .. in U I - i .ichiIi..ii(
I i-i1.iv an outline of Uermanv's nosltlon i
. . '
se.ir. ing her ....nounced Intention of
torpedoing all armed em my ships with-
out warning after February Si.
T.is outllno he will present to Secre-
Ury of fetBte Lansing within the next
two il.i. He will ariange for mi ap-
Iio.nlment as soon as lie has leceived
cer'ain additional data being sent from
Ik-r'in.
As hitherto forecast, tile mfiixuaiidum
rtcrlvod to-day may open the way for a
.it.ru. -Inn nt lhA x.-l.i.la ...,all.i.. .,r t.d 1
... . ...
.HMinct.cn nctween nieichant ships
i.tti-u ior ncicnce anil tnosc armed lot ;
rffle e. but rontrarv ti expectations of
ths State Department anil the embassy
ne lommunicatlon does not offer tn mis
Ik nd the operation of the new submarine
campaign pending this discussion.
The campaign will begin as scheduled
.Mari "i 1 unless the entente Powers
give solemn assurances that the guns on
t, .e merchantmen will not be ucd of
'nsvely against submarines. All per
sor vviicther American or of other na
' a ty, who travel on aimed ships be
' nsHig to any of the countries now at
'v.ir w tli Hermany will do so at their
pen'
nser In n tuer.
In lorm the memorandum. Ii was
l'sined authoritatively to-night. Is
, , , . ,
. .... ....... ,, ..-,.,,..., ,.,,. ,
A,'::'si'1-'-t"- -'Ifven days ugo by
ssiret.uv l.aiislmr. On that nrriLslnn
Mr. Lansing rerelved fiom the Ambassa
nor two document, one a memorandum
from Ifcrlin agieelng to a settlement .if
Ihs Luitanla controveisy "substantially"
"n t ie terms laid down by the United
'stitts, The other was the copy of a clr
ulai' warning sent out by Herman) to
n" neural Oovernmcnts advising them
'at .ifer February 29 Herman sub
mil r -leu would be directed to torpedo all
urirej enemy merchantmen without
warning
Mr Lansing observed to the Ambassa
dor tnat this rlrcular notlcu appearing
' V Inconsistent with past assurances
raven by Uermnny that "liners would not
be atta ked without wnrnlng and without
.itMHir. s being taken for the safety of
nw-romhRiamH on board, provided these
'Inors did not nttcmpt to nslst or escipo
etpture." he desired to Inquire of Her-in-,i
y 'a ether she was prepared to stand
I'V tier pa-t assurances. He added that
iwri'litis a settlement nf this point ho
cmld hold the Lusltanla matter open.
in the memo received at tho Herman
nr.b.rsy to-day the Herlin Foreign
"flue A re-ts Ambassador von Hernstorff
i inform tho American Government that
trermnnv lu n,.t.m,i n i t... ....
.. ...... .,... niiinti ij nci
"as! a-mrances and does tint regard hen
I ." .i a,n", atl1 fnemy
- .m innuiying mese assurances.
The Rtteritlon of the American Oov-'
er-re.t ,s r..in,.,j to r,ertnnn,..H under-'
"anurg that the Lusltanla controversy
'' M way dealt with armed liners: that
r ti--tt American note on the Lusltanla.
nt dated May 1.1. IBIS. speclflCHllv re-,
'''Hi to tla. uhln as being "unarmed."
Ail lllght Iu Arm,
On ic other hand, the Ambassador Is
cirertefi to say, fjerminy's position con-
i'f r. tlx has been that merchant vessels
'sv no right to arm. mere restrictions
to ti evtent of armnment affording
-is (iiri. mill siniin iiin.eti ior ot-
1 iin 1
ne inirpos..., only will not be used
foi
,,, -
sl'"1 ",
' s connection attention Is called
.. . ,i iu tones ui iirr ueiiini cir-
iiiaiilllli linil ill llie Herman r nl
"Ri, iim,-r of tjclobor IB, lflH. to the.
'i Uovenmient, transmitted
" i mbassadur Clerard at Ilerlln,
" s agitlnst permission being
" v tbn I'nltnl Slates for the
's hi int'iciiiiiiiiiieii 01 a oeiiiKfreiii
' ' le.uiiig froin any of Its poits
" ' .ie ship.
'i on of the Herman cniilentloti
' n.iiai ter of ar.nament on iner-
" ula does mil insuio Its use
"r n. defence. Ambassador von
B" ff i- ilirected to lay belore Sec
ug mo sits of evidence
I I' liiil.'siilleKedclrcumsliiiices
.... ,, ,,. , ii.v..,iur ,,,! ,,,, nm linn Willie sunn in t-n.ii. sue was iinven into
, ,i l i rl hTslio "I " '. are S.000.000 thinking the , at. Ice ll. l.l and held fast ten days. Her
",; . . " l av" used ti e r same 11 ngs that .Hal original 3,000,000 I skipper ripped off much of tho wood
' ""w 11 lib uglt the 100,000,000 will bo saved for work of th ship to give him enough
....,, o77t I'auc, Ln mustrlous future. They were ready steam to reach Ht. John's.
principle is
uinly-wils,un
"Amelica 0uSht t0 KeeP 0ut of This War at Sacri-
fioe of Everything Except Her Sense of
Humanity and
. W (Hiil.s.iroN, Feb. ;; president Wli-
son (old members of the Irlillrun Club
and Its BiK-ntH a: tl.c annual dinner ot
ilii. ,i. ..i. ....... i , i ,i I
he oiganlwil,,,, lant nl,n that vlnlatlnn
i the essential tiadltlnns of America I
would In- the only Justification for the
', Culled st.it i-,,,,,,...., I
ri... i .. , , . . .i ' ' "lustier has Untiling to do with ex
ilic Plesidcnt Clink,. In 111.- piotcotloil ,.,u.,,,v. t,... ,,.,,i,i,. -m.
tllc nub' -ontidriice, which ha
shielded in.iny icmarkab'.e utterances liy '
public I.H'i. In tin: past, but last night's
speech was given out at the White
itiousc. both president wuon ....d the
Ic'.ub 1 1 u i 11 c oniictitcd to It publication.
I "America ought to keep out of this
war." (.-tltt .in- President. ".Slut ought to
keep out of this war nt the sanltlce of
everything except this single thing uimjii
.which he character mid hlstoty are
founded, her sense of humanity and Jus-
. lite
I "If she sacilllcrs that t. hn cad
I to be America. rw h.i ("jfed to entr-
.win ue.irvr ilia. I na urrn iniritmt'ii
,0?;- ,0 ,B" thr"vMi
President Wilson evhlrntl. had tb
recent tevott In Coiuti er aalnt hli
foielmt policy !n mind vb-u he mule this
obseivatiou :
"I would j siea: deal rathe know
what they ale talking about i.iouml ulet
tlrelde all over till country than what
they are talkil.K about In Hie rloakrnoms
!.' (UIS!I "
limner In IrUlcNni.
I'nMilem Wil-ot, s spee
e 'li wa. ,
rlltb'lsiiis. by
ended us nr. ansuu to
Senators and lleiiiesenlntlvt " that his '
linsent negotiations with !erm.iny
might plunge, the eotintie 'nto war. I
.Mr. v.l-ia was iiniuentl:' 'iieerni in one eie wiiose name we caie to trmtm
the course of his address and recelvtd , Iter when we measure things upon a na
I an ovation as he tool: bis seat, being j tlonul scale.
obliged to arise and bow his acltnovvl- . "And I wish that whenever an impulse
edgments. of Impatience conies, upon us. whenever
' Theie was one featute n' the Prel- iin hnpuise to settle a thing some short
i dent's speech that wan ol vlously In-. way tempt ft, wo might ojose the door
'tended as an rvvlatiatlon of the ex-.
presslon "loo proud to light, which was
embodied in adliess made by Mr.
Wilson In I'll 'elphl.i a few days after
the sinking o he. I.usltaiila. This ex -
Iilanatlou of "t proml to fight" came
' nt the cloe of tile luldicfw lnt night.
"Valor Is self-respecting. Kald the
President " Vnlo- l clrcumpe.'t. Valor
11.l nnU n-ttun tt iy liifht tn
etrlke. Valor withholds Itself from all
..it. .It . ..i.ii.Ii. itlim mill ejltaill-lelllellts
,,'.,,. fo. lhl. s,0.i; oppoituully
tt,,,n Rvr.l will slash n- If it car-
lied the light of lieuven ujion lis blade."
This Is the first :inv In tile hlstoi y .
i of the C.rldlrou Club, which bus liern
living dinners for more than tinny
years, that a speech delivered under Its
aus-ptci. has been (.Iven to 'he public.
The clubV dinners aie conducted under
a Mile that "reporters arc never pres
.nt." The President's speech tn this
aistaine was made publli as a result of
ie.iiie.sts made, by many who attended
the (llllllCr.
Tiie rnnv nf tile Hieecll glVSIl out
at
tlu, Whlte "House wa? pu-fac.sl with the
j.jatcment .
"So maiiv leouest- from
tllose at-
tending the' dlnnei tnat tiie following
uddiess be published have been leceiven
at the White House that both the Piesi-
dent and the UiKllron fitio nave con
seuted to Its publication"
Vlr. WIUob'h Miceeli.
The f;t of the sp.eli follows
"I have very little to say to. nigh; ev
i-cin i" on ;
of the Invarli.-tle courtesy nf this club
and of the recptlou ou have so gen-
erously accorded me I Unit that I am
i-eldom tempted to say nnthlng "wn
nni'S nines soineintj -....-
mil to-night nobody has started any
thing.
"Your talk. Sir. Toastmisier. na- nr.-n
a -rreat ileal apoui caiiuioacj mm
1r H,lMloy it i, not a new leeuug on
' r' , .... but ,,p whlihl entertain with
a greater Intensity tnan foimerly, that
a man who seem, me riesini n, . .,i u..
l-.iiieii states for anything that It win
bring to him Is an audacious fool. pounds of copper to Herman interests
"The responsibilities of the otllce In preparation for the anticipated bust
ought to sober a man even before he ness revival abroad when the war ends,
approaches It. One of the dllllcultles of The copper Is lo be sent to New Voik
the ntllce seldom appreciated, 1 due and held theie In wau-hoiisc. paid for
say. Is that It Is very dllllcult to think on delivery In New York, mid thut held
wlille fo mnny people are talking and to wait fnr the fuluie shipping older
particularly while so many people aie of Heimany. This Is the Information
talking In a way Hint obscures counsel which is given out In tellable tiiailerit
and l entirely oft the point , In the mining legion, The identity of
the companies making the deal is not
Principle, Not Hipeillene) . given out, an it might mean reprisals bv
"The point In national affairs, gentle-1 i;'"1'""1 I" refusal of the allied
men never lie" along the lines of ex- ' owrrs. ,0 '"" tunh? '''tracts ex
pedlency! It always tests In the field of Pt '"' forced to place
principle. The United States wns not ' urulr'
founded upon any principle of expedl-
ency: It was founded upon a profound "WEAR SIMPLE COLORS."
. ; : . nt....... ,..i A i...
PI lllCipil.- " .tMl.t- , I I, II . I
inanity, and whenever It bases lbs policy
upon any other foundations than those
It builds ou the sand and not upon nolld
rock.
"It seems to mi- ' ai u , ...- -- "-
"wh irureh Th; vie;:
K"lv: . "5 . V'' " ' A .
hat he foun men who. when their at-
le'ntlo'n'waH called to the signs .of nprlntr.
? r:'"V. . "w.;,r;,T .ib o ;
mil noi ore uu- ..m-. ..... -
the movement of the free clouds did not
think of the great spares of the quiet
continent, but thought only of some !m-
mediate and pressing piece of business.
"It sfems to mo that If you do not
think of the things that lie beyond and
away from and dlfconnected from this
I ; .. .
scene In which we attempt, in moot itnu - m mum, m, ii.i. riiius, riirtnermnie,
ronclude vou will Inevitably be led blacks prutininlmile In the des maim
astray. ' mrttircil In this cnuntiy and fancy colors
"I would a great, deal rather know 'will be. few ihulng the spring and mini
what they are talking about around iner.
nulet firesides all over th!a country thnn A Mntement Issue 1 by tho executive
what they are talking .idouv hi ine
ci01lKr0nms of Congress.
ikrooms or congress.
?h"'"" ,0 trillns and by tho
,t. titot in tne sunns mill nil 111,1
IViljeilli. ' ' --- --
fanns are thinking about and yuarnlng
fr tj,an boor any of the vociferous proc.
anatlOIIM 01 policy which 11 in en ci,n
,lfftr ,lrl( so easy to read by picking
un any scrap of printed paper. There is
0v one way to hear these things, and i
,, constantly to go Imck In the
fountains of American action. Those!
fouuta-llis are inn n "" i""1"' m "'ij
ri.,.(.ntly discovered sources.
"Senator Harding wan saying Just
nnw that we might to try when we aro
inonoo.onn strong to act It. the sanio
simplicity of principle that our forefath-
,.rs lu-tetl III when we were .1.000,000
trong. 1 lieanl somebody say. I do not
know the exact statistics tiiut ine prrs
,M-inuhillon of the L'nlteil HIHtes Is
my guide-
Justice.'
In stake - cry IIi.uk fur an idea, anil'
that Idea was lint expediency, liui Jus- '
J,'0'' nJ ,llu Infinite tllllloulty of put..
"u affairs, gentlemen, s not to d scuver
th(. bUM f ,., ,..,',.,. ,,
II, ms nf tl.c wind, but In eipiare thu
tl.li.nK you do liy tin nut simple hut.
complicated standards of Jitsthe.
.my teii'ipoiuiy xtnndanl whatever. Ills
looted and grounded In tin- fundamental
Insllycts of humanity.
"America oucht to keei out of thl
war, She niiKht to keep out of thl war
at the saci.tli e of everything eMept till)
sli.Kle thltiK upon which her chaiacicr
and history ai" fo.iuded. her xense of hu
manity niul Justice. If she n.icrltlec
that she li... icaseil to be America ; she
has leased to "i.tci lull, and to toxc the
tradition which have made us proud
to be An. el lean, and when we ico about
seeUInu ufety at the expense of hu
manity then 1. for one, will believe that
1 have alnn.s tieeti mistaken In what
I have conceived to be the splilt of
American hlMoiy.
slmu.nsl. for Ciulilnnee.
"Vou never can tell your .f.iectlon ex-
t flit lii intirr inf:iMiirf iiiimiim. 1 oil c.
nui c.'ianiirii a hihi uy two poin ; jn
I It lllltl U) IWII PIISIH, J1IU
illlll llie inilKer your line ine inure cri-
" .n i ....u.
.. ..... ..... .... -
.V'.,,r",,,r'. '' ui.
one
W.1J III WJIUll III IHUtTlll lit? IHW VIIW
future
be iiiojecled and that Ik by looking barli
and set Int; whlrh way the lines ran
power and of onportunliy.
rhfie Is no doubt about that
n,,PA
1 Here
Is let iiucstlou what the roll of honor 1,1
Ainerii.t Is. The toll of honor lon.slsts of ,
the names of mrti who have Miuarc.l their
conduct by Ideals of duly. There Is no
otm else upon Ihe rosier: there Is no
ami tnke ilowu some old stories of w hat !
American Idealists and statesmen did in
the past anil not let any counsel In that
i,u put sound In the authentic voice of
, Ainericiiii ttadltlon.
"Then we shall be certain what the
lines of the future are because we shall
know we are steering by the lines of
the past We shall know th.U no tern-
im;i rv j-c.n v uitlrin.u tut t n ......
pedlency. will lead us either to be rash '
tr tn be rilunnlll'. I u'.,nl,l I... lnt ..u
much ashame.1 U, be ,.,sh a- I would
to be a toward.
"Valor is self-iespectlng. Valor l.s
clrcumspvrt. Vulor strikes only when It
Is right to strike. Valor withhold itself
fiom all small implications and entangle
men tit uud waits for Hut great opportu
nity when the sword will Hash as if It
carried the light ,,f heaven upon Its
blade "
IT c e T,r,Ts,e,.... !
U. 5. S. PENNSYLVANIA IS FAST,
Heat. ,.r i trnei (.preil. VlnLlnir I
Knot nn Hour.
fiOCM.AMi. Me. Vb, '. Tho nil
b."nilng siipeidreadnouglil Peiirlsjivama.
puneriui warsinp cnmpkleil for
''" '-Ited Stales navy, coinpletetl her
ingii speeil tests to-dav. SI,,, maile ,..
"i". 'ne isiircd course at the rate
of 21.7.. knots an hour. Tnis was three
quarters nf ;l knot in excess of her con
tiact leijuircmt nts
cor tlve high iun :it ,, SK.c,i I
Bleat w.ushlp averaged 21 !1S knots an !
sinriiiH nun rngs nave previ-
iluMy .m. rf.-r-.l with m,. t,i.,i i,,,, t0.
day th,. weatmi was perfect. The Pent,,
a ,!., ln otn,.r (o )lK(. lm.Ulll
lug twelve and twenty-four hour iun
GERMANY BUYS U. S. COPPER.
..,...,,,,.,.ii i-ihih,i
to He Meld fur
Future Deliver).
CAi.r.vgr. Mich., Feb. 27 A deal has
been
Insed by Lake Supeilor upper
protiucers for the sale of Vfiiin nnn
, .
,,n"
l.i-niciir Mukea the
I
A ppenl
Wasiiinhton. Feb,
7. An niipeal
was sent out m-nlghl by the Woman's
". .
the luo.oon niembcs of Ihe league to
ZTXn "'.
." JZ" "y
makem and tcgtll.. mm.facturer.s,
.. ,.,imil.,i.. i.,,i.,i , i,.i,,
T " ' a g " ;" ; tV1,.,:,hJ J,14 J"1'
ff p ' ' l0 .; V ! , 7 'V
!; ""' j'''
slmpl, . r bee use of the fact that
the ( irman . vesturfs aie no longer
avullnble and llm American djc Industry
s unable to supply morn limn due-half
.ll.l... I ,.....!... ...... ., . ..
committee or tile .Made in V. S. A.
League sa.vn:
woman will aid her 're , Z
it-mi lire si rin.1-1 inr tn miiiihi.. i,u , it.
. ..r.r....,0 ... ..,,,..,. ,,
Ainirlcan tlyes mill thus liulld up a great
pew Industry In this country."
cutp "PA-iT IM TirP TPP in TiAVfi
-
"
I.ocli ln- irrlves After Stormy
niiuf trrniii Hnnllc.
Tho Norwegian steamship Loch Tay,
charlercil to the Holland-America, line,
arrived yesterday from Itotlcrdam after
a stormy trip of forty-eight days. In
cluding a stop at St. John's, N, F where
she, nut In for coal.
She was In ballast and thus presented I
a lot of freeboard for the westerly gales
. to win; ....si ... ,,e . ,, ,,
have pot to have three at least to know I oiK.imiMiion oy j.....i. .;7"'' ' ,
whether they aiestialKht with anthlnK.!y.ll',ll:'""- l.awson ind he n '" '''
DROP HERVEY
AND WHITNEY,
WHITMANTOLD
Leaders Brinir Prosure fur
Withdrawal (if Service
Hoard Choices.
SKNATK TO IlKAl.
THOSK WHO OIM'OSK
A I.II.V s .
durilis I lie
b, :
list
T Itei.rwed priMOire I
few da has been
bi-ousbt upon tlov Whitman bj hi own j sei.Ber Kteamei Slalojn, one of the newest
pollllcal rrieiido to uIUuIiaw fioin the i phips ( the Peninsular and Oriental
.State Senate his nominations of flurlesi ,ne, nil ui U a mine at 10;30 thin morn
S. Ilervey and Tiav.s II. Whitney, vlioiu 1 ,m ,en midway bitween Dover and
he named to be the tipnsentat.ve-. f -tllKcfioti- mid ank within thirty
llrooltlyti Uinn tl.c New York Public i minutes
Servne t'otnml"ioii without crinsultll.i; There weie 1 1!' passengers and a crew
Ihe llmoklyn Hepublleiin leadels. , (jf ,)( ,uid Almost all of the
The (ioveinni ami one m two ot Ills' .
jadvlsei doubt the pollt.il Mxped.cucy I
.11. Slh II II move. .Vlil .MI. niiin.ni f ( .1.11. .Ml .1 Ill'-r tiiiu i,v.ii-c, w
, friemls In th. Senate aie . or.Hi.l. rlim tlUMMV,. lKt, u
a.tvisa ,miy o ev. can ' '.
w!f vth tin UtiKiUIjn lErpnlilUMli ;
",, ,,M" '" "
- - ... . 1. J
iteimuiir.il in icj'-iuik ui'tnii,
, .. , ,. , ,..,,. i,M
following tile eeet lle.trlllv; WHICH Hie
Senate Plniinc fommilte.- Is to accord
' ; , il... ,.. lit
noinlnallni.s on Tin
The Metniniailc
mtiiib.Mt of the
'"in '-I..,.'- ...... ....
... , , , . ,f .. . riirimii.nr i oni-
f I.... .. r.,i 1 iii..1.1V alto
.im(.p i,as iniiHiitu
Iir,.J.Ilt in.r.i.L.t tb
n --.i.i . , . -
ant iestimoii u.
pres-llt ilg.l. Iil tile llirill.llinn m -inrr.- i
nonilnatlons n ma ne oeeinin iu ,
liefer Its piesenl.ltlOII until the Itenio-1
i i.itic ineintieis of the .Hi'iilttee ran be
present, be,., se the ;wa'tii on lie-
jmiu . ...u .-r.i.......
"" """ . ; . .
M,nn ors snu n tues- e
r,'JPl,,'u
TI10UPS0X COSFIDKXT. !
Cup to linii t Plulit lleriej
Wbllne tiollllinelll.
Senator Tlionipsou. ihalnnan of 'be
legislative commlttte. the activities of
which have caused an intlux of visitor
to Palm He.ich. left New Voik last night
rP,lrl1 Wednesday
P.efore he comes back he expects tn.it
he will have aiiomplished two Important
feats: he will have defeated Ihe Humilia
tions for the Public Service Cnmmlsslnti
of Travis II. Whitney and Charles S.
Ilervev, Cov. Whitman's candidates, and
h vvll'l have had the life of his investi
gating committee extended as far is
the present legislature can xtenil II. I
tlial is, until the tlrsi .Monday in i
Jiinuaiy. If IT ,
HefoieleaviliBSenul.il I Hump-on s., ti ,
n- expected m i- siiiccssfiii m bom
mlwMtritis. .'Cell IIIOUCII lie UMiieii in..i
,!nv Whlttnan would throve ni- tnt.re
-Ironetll In the Clllll rillll t l"H lr XI T.
Whitney, who has been set rclary lo the
Public Service Commission since lis es
' tabllshmenl. and nf Mr llervey. .t
Deputy Compl toller uuuel .tir rieiiu-r-nasi
VV-bitnitn lias built two files hv
hi itomination- fnr pnlfb an .-ay that
If lie ii.sls' upon the contlrmatl'iti of 'be
two men the lt.li.gs inunt.v Ib publlcan
delf nation will turn .olitllv against his
leiiliitallon nf fuillier polilital Imiinrs,
! whll.
b
t l,m.,.o ,.111 l,n..
Ill getiei.ll .-i ii i.i'i
his iilfitk on tne two iii.i nn ii
tlon that his coHinnliee ha- tlev-elopi d
facts I miiiillon Bill' pnbli.. service
iiirporat.ons npeiailng under the juris -
diction oi ine ,i hi i " .
that the pulillc has ii.sii uniairi) neait
with: thai both Mr Whitney ami .xir. i
Ilervev were in a position to know nf
tlie.i" 'facts hefiue the legislative com
mittee brought them lo light, and if
thev did lint know of th.se matters lliev
irn'te.l their hiroHHirtcm s ; while If they
,11,1 know of tin in then- failure to
pose them to public view shows that Mr
, ll. Ilwi'i..,. me lint wnrtbv'
VV llllllf aiu. -it. .-
nf a place nn th" commission.
Senator Thompson said that Mr. Whit-
nej's affidavit In connection with the
ntienipt to obtain nil Injunction prevent -
"" , ! h for h r t r ckl g Fill-
approving pans foi thlr I tifMR
wis a serious mat-
ton st.eet llrp 1 n. was y.u m mu
t'fnnd th: ' ' ' "' ' ) "!
rome explaining to do, On January IS
i,t Mr Whitney made an affidavit that
ast Mr Whitney n o . a, n. n , ,
lot &'ne'Sa ;i V fnr
Hi
not
third
i .V t, i , ; , , h i
r.tor
efore, but
1 hat whW. II,.. application' cam,.
!"- "?."An
up the
other
older nlans substituted.
"Mr. Whitney was correct In his affi
davit," said Senator Thompson, "but
only technically correct and If an offi
cial Is going to stand on technicalities i
to assist the corporations I can't stand I
for It and 1 don't think the public can." i
Before llie leiine Tn-nlttlil.
Senator Thompson will appear before
the Senate tn-nlitht to ask for extension
of the life of the comnilltre lie says
he doesn't expect nny opposition. He
said the big thing for the cniiimlttec to
do Is to trace the "cnniinltmcnlH and
obligations" disclosed through tho pro-
rr1."1,n' t",,""", """ lUw lH
1 "
Mr. Whitney said yesterday that his
affidavit In connection with third track
Im; Fulton street was correct He said
tho plans sent to the commission on
January 10 were sent lo the engineering
Icvarlnient its snop plans, which urn sent
,. it iney nil "i . inin, ." ..... .1.. . I- - ---- --- .i iio.eii a.-auus. aim on w nun me . nortant as the del mans make out It. I cached Li.UOO.
i.liev.d that Chaiiinan Mr.ms m me .,n nn i.n.iin. .x uinug in..-.- iu-i Hermans nie keeping tip a ronsiant hall was dismantled In the Ilrst months of the PindiiiL- the nosltiim in,i..,,si,i- i..
Public S. i vi e Cnmniisslon wm res,c , t,. , ,.t ., was in., viiier,. .,n . o.is.i, ,,f .hell linin in-iitars and llcld pices, ! iv.,r. ,t c.nta.n.s r. ltber a gun nor a sin- t.iue of the llie ,,f th- artillerv of
S-nate-Th.tniP-nn s I gl.l against them t ,b u. IMbn t Ney McSeel . f ,,,..,....,,, ,. Von , ,., , ,,. mfantr.v mail a nl it Is so far from both sides, the French h ivo evieuated
will be waged before Ihe Pinante Co.,,. huge nuiinter of mail sac. -s we e ..,. , ,,,,. ,, .-MmnKly hebl by ,he Hermans" the Cote ,e Taloi . to ho xvest o ' nounu'
n,i,,ee of the Senate tn.inonnw-. and Ihe ..t with the Main .. ll'-'re-sc". , e ,,ave been lushing tinops and munitions I that the F.,th t -dav aie lw.vo.nl the mont. an. the l ti. i m.vv , nocc
-n..v-r t. , to, i'-1r,,rur -- -'- yumr&s,r
..r III Vlllltl.. 111 the Use of l.f.t belts. Tlf beluiv in
In often, and that he knew nothing of , promptly to her aid. Pntrol liontu also
them, Tho only plans before the com- iispoiiiled spetsllly lo the Maloja's ills
mission were tho old plans which had trefM calls, Crowds ashotc watched Ihe
been appiovetl, bo said, and so his affl-1 rescue work. The Muloja itilrkly began
davit was true, lie said that If the In settle. The fea was non running over
l. ... . . - '. 1 . .,1.1.. a 1 . . . .- I . e I , I n n Vi.
new plans weie such as Senator Lawson
liad described they would havn goiie he-
fore Hut coinmlssinn
Ilordrr Olllelnl Dies nf Tpliii,
I Ml. Paso. Feb. 27 Moirls Huttner.
limnlgratlnn Inspector for the Dnlled
Klatni on the International Hrldgo, ho
tween 11 Paso ami Juarez, died this eve
ning of typhus after an lllncbs of three
days, ,
MINE SINKS
P. & 0. LINER;
147 ARE LOST'
3laloja. Persia's Sister Ship,!
Destroyed Off Dover
No Americans on Her.
VKSSKL COMIXO TO
UKSITK BLOWN L'Pi
V" (able littinilili to Till. ?u
I.ONIKJN, I'Vb. JT. The 12.500 ton pas-
paseeiseie wen- irpouru s..... ..-
r,,e Vu,
u.H.s iitiiuuu i'u total number
ir firiiwniMi .it Mi. in uu nuinurr i
Te l.-.-ci. A..ini,B t,e e ,. m .urs.
.Mel .1. wife of 1 trl Hen. Sir Donalrt
. , . , , , .
i;ilTlr ..111 .Mi
.Mis. Mel.eud wa
.Miss t'.tnull.i Nirhola. daughter or
Major .1 Nicholas lien. Mcl.eod was
alo .i Ihi.i nl the .Maloja.
Wlille lielolm; in the rescue woilf the
llill.sh steamship llmiir.ss of I'ott Will-j
.. . ii i .....I.. Ul...
.in, niiiiieiii.iiei I'CKIIII in "III'-. ttir
... . . ..... i t. ...
iieni ,inoe in' .ni iiiiik i-ihhikii "
......a,, ..... ...... ... . , to ihe boats
-j-j,,.,, ,.lw W1S an fxploslon ami sue
di,,,!,,,,.,,, , doud of steam,
llotcli essel lleslro e.l.
A ( lm of u lulm. u.(l( tti
.the Dutch mallbo.it Mecklenburg Pan
K-ni'itiM "
seitgeis and UfW
wen; saved by two,
,!t,.nmsh, , ,.sf.uence ot
the M.cklenbuiK s sinking the service
ihctwt.'ii Kiiglaml ant Holland wa
'Zi this 'Tiftt rnoo,,:
I ' There ,s ronsldeiable -peculation here ,
In-lllgllt
on ihe presence nf s man)
inin
ll) these wateis which ale being
ontlnuall) swept b Admiralty trawlers.
It may be that the .cent heavy .tortn
in th. North M-a has loosened aiichore.l
mine or that Herman patrol bouts Iuvm
b. ii able to penetrate Into the neighbor
hood of Dover.
A siole of those alMi.ud Ihe Maloja
wile mow u lo pi s wneii uie explosion
i occiiri en.
The Maloja was the !aiget of the Pen
Insular anil Oilental Line's Heet. The'.,, iMa tlt. 0( ,ile t... siro mostly I cers say that the night retirement from
carcn she wa- .airlns was very val-1 miniature water courses. The Fiemhitl'e advanced positions at llrabant and
liable. I Hellenes and batteries ale plaietl lo en-' HnlimoH. was admirably carrleil out and
The i e. uei coiuur with the line's of- tuaii,. these. Won nil ed soldiers who have, only the men in a few advance, 1 posts
lielal Htiit.mcM that the discipline reached Paris ray that Ihe i arnnge I were left behind The French reglmeuts
among the passengers was adiiilraTde. , among the (lei mans was simply ten Ible. .and artillery withdrew to the new posl-
T.. ,.iphasi7.e that the Inn-ars weie
... ,! . the lluropeans. Tho oflkers
staved on the ves.-l to the last. The
(, ln llrI,,1 ,lto tne
frf;in tlli UrMftet , .,,.u he wa -img-
Ti), ,.,,,,;,, of . :,ule.ss of Fort
William savs he saw that eight boats ou
Hit Miloia's side inuld not be loweted
because of the list
Miilnlii s.i- Ship nf Pertln.
The Maloja, one of ihe netve-t lmer
, in ihe Medii.-iiaiiean s-rvice. wa bound
j ft o'ii London In lioinb.ty. She was the
i sister hip of the Persi.t, which was
sunk fioin a thus fat unknown cause
; olT the Island nf Ciete on December 30
". """.
1....1. .....I ni.u- Iu iliiriie.
I lerl.eil 111 III! nlll' l.ll Statement Ot III
.piendid."
Ti, p,,,,,,,,,,,, 1. h followed tile
x,aUlJi,., ,.inniin with lb"' mine was'
, ti(i (,t f(ir .,.,,,., ble large and '
Ismail uaft lo huiry to ner nssisiaiiee.
fw mumps the sinking vessel
was sin rounded by a swarm of steamers,
tiawiet. tug, lighters, boats and tor-
nuln bo its.
There was a high sea, hnwever, nnd
the lie. ue woik was accomplished under
dilbcultlid This was lendcted still
woise b) the explosion on the Kinprfss
,,. , villl.ini, which divided the lescue i
... u. .i ..nH.iHn... I
j,ys,.S, .X teailire in ine in in, nun e i--
'purls is the assertion that there was no
m(,
i ',irt llndle Iteenvereil.
I A etatem. lit ennc rnhsj the loss of life ,
. to-night In the form,
came irnm ouoi ii.-i,ikiii n, im- .i..n,
,,,,,,,.,, H,iyi tal .m0re than
' fnriy dead from the Muloja have been
I l'1'1 Vv.a'.!..,,! lr .,,,, omental Line
. '."' ..III.. t iva .viiiua limn
,, ., after .,,. of ,,. oallH,. Umt
!"" ; -r "'"':,"r ,v,ds ,,
I captain, seeing that extensive damage
had been done, tried to beach the
llinr, hut was unsuccessful ln this, the
engine room being full of water. Tiie
V essti rank in about half an hour.
There were 119 aiengers on bond,
who embarked In London, A large
number were rcsoued from the water
and bv Him shlp. bolts, by patrol boats
ami other ciaft.
Tint sinvivois ale being landed at
Dover Their wants are being at
leaded to nt the Lord Warden Hotel
nnd on a hospital ship. Almost all of
Hie passengers were waved.
Ml ol tho ship' loat s had been
swung out ready fnr einei-geticy. The
passengers fortunately bad time tn
put on llie belts. They had been In
strutted on the pievloiLs evening In
their use The captain leports that all
the passengers and the crew behaved
splendidly
Despatches from Dover lule to-night
give tiie details of Ihe disaster. Tho
Maloja s.uik about two miles off shore.
The explosion wiih heard and seen at
Dover, and tugw and motor boat ruced
llie left side of her brblRe, then tho
liner listed greatly to starboaul, where
u 1 1, n she rolled over until the etHrbnard
side was submerged and the ducks were
perpendicular. Sorvn after this the Ma
loja turned turtle itmld a cloud of
, 'cam.
Meanwhile sevei.il do-am craft of nil
i.or wrro around the sinking veseel,
eiigiiged In rescue work. Rome boat-
C'oiilliiiird on 6'ccottd Pagt.
VERDUN BA TTLE SLACKENS;
RING OF STEEL CLOSING ON
GERMANS AT DOUAUMONT
BERLIN AND PARIS REPORTS
ON DOUAUMONT FIGHTING
RKOAItDINl! the situation on the helRlilx of noiiatliunnt, north of
Verdun, on which the Kteneli and Herman official imitcmeiitM do not
imree, the latter cays:
fill the height of the .Mouse the I'lelieh iiltelllpteil by means of
iitl.iclis, live times tepealiil with liesh troops, to rc'Compier the arinoied
fort,ren.s of Uoiinuiuout. They were repuled with satmtiltiary losses.
The French iiIkIH communiiiiie s.iy that the Intensity of the IlKhtltr;
In this reslon lias slackened somewhat, and adds:
To the east and the west nf the position of Douaumont. tho slope
of which are covered with dead Ucrni.iii., 0111 troops, aie pie.lus
clo-ely from three .sides the sni ill enemy foneji which were able tit
K.iln a foothold there and which aiu niaintulnlni; themelve.s thero w.tli
difficulty,
Herlin asset ts that the Cote de Talon, wist of Ioii:iuniont. is occupied
by neriniin forces. Paris announces that the position Is not held by either
side, beliif? untenable owIiik to the withering tin- to which it Is subjected.
Harller niflcl.it report from Paris wild that sti-niic Onn.ui aittichs In tills
reciun were broken down by urilllei and inaclilae pun Hie.
VERDUN HAIL OF SHELL
MOST TERRIFIC OF WAR
Advancing Germans "Fort" at Douaumont Dis
mantled a Year Ago
-fuu I iti'r I'nfauh to Till! Si.
t.oNbo.v. Pelt. US. The Paris col re-1
..f ,... ii.,, i.i.m .i.liiln.' I
........ - ,
.suinia. says: ;
"Siiae yesterday the Cetman- have i
i.i .iIm ill. ii'i-i. nt Vei.tiin Tbev 1i.iv.
1 " i
''fought to a standstill by
Pleura mi their second line pnsilions
lutmlng from Champneuville. In a inaishy j
, ( o , Mr ()
()f WlM.lr,. ,,.,. Th f
(lf v.icherauvllle .mil Douaumont
oil
forts
Ihe French l.alte.les ttn the grounding.
hill, with the machine guns uud bayo-1
nets of the French soldiers, haired fill-1
ther ptoK.ess toward the south.
"The ridge of the .Meuse heights along '
whlih Ihe licnnaiis are endeavoring loj
iiiti-iiiii'M I K..utti...l veft.i t.ivine. u lilcb I
Omna of llenil l.erinnns.
"ln many plat es ,b ad Hermans torme.l
huge dams across Ihe ravines, Impelling
the water In Its downward course to the
Meuse Kvciy now ami then one of
thru, dams gives way and a red stream
swills on, rartilig hundreds of iotpscs
with 't.
"The tn Kc position on the present
Pi cm h line against wlilih the lieimiin
attack so lar has binsen ale the Cote
ilu Pnivie and the llois tie Vauche. The
list bill Is strongly held, runt the vallev
leading lo It 1.. swept bv the the nf l-mt
aclterauville and l iemli batlerle. on
Ihe west bank of tb.. .,.ii.se The st
position, which lias neeii tin- objective
; ! WILL REARREST SIEGEL
ON RELEASE FROM JAIL
Depositor- t'l'uc Swan u to
I'l'osecnte Tiiili'tl Itiinkt'i'
Airiiin on Felony ('luir're.
When Henry Slegel, the former mer
chant and private banker convicted of a
misdemeanor In lonnectlon with the
fulluie of his bank, l released from the
penitentiary In Livingston county next
Wednesday District Attorney Whe-ler
will cause his rearrest on twelve re
maining Indictments charging felonies.
District Attorney Swami has leiiuenteil
this action and has asked that ball be
fixed nt fie.ooo, A bench warrant has
been tiled with tiie warden of the prison, i
Slegel was Indicted after the 'allure'
of his bank, which had about 2..'i00.0n0 I
In deposits, and the indictments weie
transferied to Livingston county. Slegel
was convlcteii " -ne ,
falletl bank has asked Mr. Swann to
nrosecute Slegel ou at leant on,' remain
Ing count. After Slegel was minified It
was siaieu nun or wo uni prouai'iy iiiasu
a substantial payment to the depositor
- .h. knnii Thu nn ,11,1 not .lo
of the bank. This ho ilid not do.
Frank I. Vogel. a partner of Slegel,
who was Jointly Indicted with him, died
before his trial was called.
BELGIANS FACE STARVATION.
StnppHKC of Food liniinrls Wiinlil
He Fulfil !) Woleiitt
1istiON, I'.b. 2, The conclusion of
Frederick J, Wolcott, who spent three
weeks In Itelgluin and northern France
Investigating for the Itockefeller Fnimria-
Hon the work of the relief coinmlssinn,
of which Herbert C, Hoover Is the head,
aro as iniinws;
"There would be wholesale slarvatlon
within three or four weeks If the Impor- !
tallon of food Into ltclgiuin wero!
stnppeil.
"Ii. northern France llie percentage of
Indigent people In even greater than I hat
In llelglum. because there are virtually
no native supplies.
"The clothing situation tu llelglum nnd
northern France demand., very serious
coiislrtnratlon. I'nless the work of pin.
rnj r,: ::;v :hh,'",k,
. hn tn" '
Wolcott In Ills report says be Ik
ly m,,reH.ed by the elllclencv of the
work, nnd be lecninmemln that
Mr.
-reiillv
relief work, nnd be lecoinmemln that
money Intended for llelglum or Franco
h.. ..ntmsteil to the commission.
and Had No Garrison.
erals teal .e it .it vi imv w.ll go m .a"
army winch makes the best use of Its
'tt'Olt r.v. S't Ollliery niier niiiieiy Ol
,Kjlt arnll.ty .mil heavv guns ha been
sent tutu e .Moiiilay i.i the Aigonne and
the heights nf the Metis,..
'the Preach have hitherto trgardtd
lit. .It t .It...... ..... I ... C..t.
, 111 t.'lj.)lll.l-ll. as tlKt Klelktest I ITort 'if
tile war. but the piesent biltle has mi
"'! all th- calculations of the starts and
ine , Mlisillll.llinil ill snen ui i-l i-l y l.tfl-
bte lias greatly exceeded the estimates.
', .The I'icnih have plentiful supplies, how
nun , ,, i, .,,,, ..... I.,,,,, ,.r
; ' )(. (
j..,
, , , ...r,., u,aPr.
" eiy little In the way nf details leak
out bevotld the nltlci.ll stlltelllellts. Dili-
, t ion in perfect order
"Tim daily war review issued In Paris
on Sunday sav s .
'The Herman w.rele announced the
capture of Chanipmuvllle on Friday
To-day Cli.unpn. uville is still in the
hands of the French. On the same day
the Herman wireless annotincul lo.nui)
l'leiich prisoners. The total number of
French prisoners taken since the opening
of the itttioii is hattlly half that. The
SoIff Agency on Saturday announced ;
Tbe in ninteil Fort Douaumont, tho
... ...!..., ..tlli v ttt tin .ttii.l,. It, tit., tirln.
t ., , ,, of , ,.,., fn, tirtcatlons,
j ,.,,.,.,, ,. assault m, lrlday after-
: ,ol, ,,v Hraii.lei burg infantry and is
' tlrintx- in the hand of the Herman."
' yrl i.iu.iumont I bv no means so lm-
RICH RICHER, THE POOR
POORER AFTER WAR
I'i't'-iilenI Vim Hiseof Vicon.
sin Sees' World's (Jreatest
Keoiiomif l.'plieaviil.
Mll.w ai KIT. Pell. 27. Pie.snlrnl
Charles It Van Hi, of tin- Pnlveislty
of Wisconsin, In a signed article In a
Milwaukee newspaper to-day, declares
that the end of the war abroad will
mean the greatest eiouomlc changes In
eveiy country ou the globe ever expert
" , , . , , , . ., , ,,
p"r''d '" ""'' '"l,,f "'rl",, 111 worM
hlstoi . He ilielared that an American
.,,, nnt iilK)w the meaning of high
. roinnired with condition
Xl w 11 r0"',' r' " Wl"
"..'.',' ;,.,,. f the war man v of the
Al 1 ' ' " ' ) ,nrp . ,
" , '11 ' b, UJr. The abso u"te
L'r' ' ,
chafts which are of no permanent value
lo the nation In the destruction of war
. . rooriv , ,
"'"'J;'1 ,'',, ' 1 ,r' ,', Lc de c ..
striked upon a colossal seal... I rat
see little nope oi a near peace,
"Ccitaln It Is that social transforma
tions during and after the war will b"
at a spot d never before approached The.
people nf the nations Involved hav e
problems to solve, both social and tcono.
mlc. so far beyond those which eonfiont
other nations that we cannot predict
whether or not they will be able In this
g,.l.ration or tills ceniui) io nee mem.
y,.vrs Irnm 'be awful calamities which
rrt,t upon them because of tho great
' war
j "This condition must have its effect
,ipn economic life In Annrlca, and what
tlis wm vl. no man can sav."
.rn , .Tc,
NO CAVIAR FOR THE GERMANS.
Import of Lobster mill t'lianipiiHiie
I vlso lliirred,
Ht.Hl.l.x-. via Umilon. Feb J7 The
Cfrinan Hoverniiient has put t ban on'
IniiKirlatlons of all cotiinioilltles regaiibil .
I... i. 't'l,. 11. I.'imiih. l.ti-e t..il
, ' v v;in . im , ,
u, i me .n-.,n.. re .at..,.
lobsters, lhiuon, .iiaiitpagn
llle,lipli
i r.is.ns. silks, sl'k clollnng. clmhlns with
bice trimmings, fans. iat, cap pictures
sctiltKiircn, Jewell-), gold, sihii. lo) nf
sctils
various Muds, machine tools and uillstic
Ironware.
Small Korce of Invaders in
' Peril as French Close In
m Position at Fort.
KAlSKIi'S 31 FX Otri PY
VILLA(JF XFAIi MFl'SK
Chaiupiieuville. .Vtirt Invest
of Fortress. Evacuated
lv (Jarrison.
SXOW AX I) P. 10 LOSSES
CIIFCK OF R MAX IM'SIl
Supreme Effort to Ureal; In
Concentrated on Front
of About a Mi IV.
;,r,.ii' able l"i'tffi I" Tin Si -l.iiMsi.x-,
Feb. "27.- The (ieitnan dilxe
iiKiiinsl Veidiiii slackenttl sonivwhat
in Intensity to-day over most ot tliu
llne. vviilch now lien directly under the
guns of the mnst northerly forts. Nar
lowiitg tlndf heaviest attacks to tli
sliint fmnt between tlm Douaumont
heights and the plateau north of tin
village of Vatix. to the east, the Oer
m, ins concentrated their tlfons, hut
failed to gain ground.
Tho position of Fort Douaumont
th l'reniii olllclal coinuiiitiliti(''s do
not call Ii a fort, but a "position" -Is
still occupied by small (Tennun forces.
The Freni'li are dosing in on this posi
tion on three sides and announce that
th Herman forte Ls maintaining Itself
only with illlllctilly.
Tin; very unfavorable weather con
ditions, with a heavy full of snow, may
bo one reason for the lessening of the
force of the Herman attack; despatches
from the ftont lndlcnto that heavy
losses also may have had an effect.
The slopes t.iht and west of the village
of Douaumont, which has been the
centre of the heaviest lighting, are
covered with Herman dead, according:
to tho olllclal communique- Issued In
Paris to-night.
File Hacks nt I'url.
Five- .separate attacks, have been
marie by the French In an cllort to re-
lake Fuit Dutiaiimont. tho Herman
War Olllce sa). Kadi attack was
innili' by ficsh troops, but all live wen'
repulsed with heavy French losses.
The number of iinwoiindeil French
prisoners taken in the .seven days bat
tle, the Heilm Mntement i.ivs. ha.)
destructivti tire was illnsieil nimlnst
the opposltn- works In front of Venl
;el and to the east of Tto)on.
In the region north of Verdun, after
llm vlolencti of the actions xvhlch
maiked the preceding days, tbern has
1 been a certain lessening in the efforts;
l of the enemy in thu coure of llm day,
except between tint height of Douall.
mont and the plateau to the north of
the village of Vaux, where a strong
att.uk made on our poJions was re
pulsed, To the east and the west of
the position of Douainnont, tho slopes
of which are coveted with dead Ger
mans, our troops are pursuing closely
from three sides tho small enemy
forces which were able tn gain a foot
bold there and which am maintaining;
themselves theie with difficulty.
According to the latest reports, tha
Cote do Talou, rendered untenable
both for us and for tho enemy by tho
bombardment of the nrllllery of both
sides, l.s not occupied h" forces of
either army
In the Woevr the enemy camo Into!
contact with our advanced posts In
the direction of Itlauzee nnd Moran
vllle, where their attempts to debouch
toward Illll '.Vi'i were checked.
Iu the Voges there was an artillery
duel at llartinannsvvellerkopf. Wo
brought under our tiro and dispersed
an enemy detachment In the region of
Senones ,
('minim Take (iininimen ville.
In the oillcial statement received to
day fiom Ilerlln, tho Herman War Ollb
amioutues that tho Ht minus, pieslng
forward to the west of Dniiauinont, have
reached Nave, on the southern border
, of the wooded district nnilhe.ist of ltras,
j Inking Chainpneuv lllo and the Cole ,e
. Talou on the wa) . The taking of Champ
i i.euv.l'e bad already been announced be
.the Hermans, but the announcement wa
contradicted by them as bated on an
errouecus repoit. To tho east of Dnuau
niniu me neiiiiitiis nininiini e ine sioim
Ing of extended fortllled work- m ,n .
aiimont
The
ierniiin llcpiirl,
The nlllclal slalement Issued bv
Hut
(iei man War nillce tn-tlay say
On vai lous pnilimis of the we.lein
front there was Intense aildlery and
n.iiie .nt I 1 1
Tn Hie south nf Vpics a llrillsli ,,t-
Incli was it pulsed.
I'll the heights of the Meuse lllii
French attempted by mean nf at
tacks, live tlllle lepellled Willi fresh
lumps, In leconipier the armored
foi tress of Douaimioiit. Thv were
ic pulsed with sangiilnaiy losses, To
Hie el of the foil we tonk Champ
neiiville and tha Cote de Talou .nl.
valuing to Save, lo the east of the
,,, .,
wlUs f h,,,,!,
1 1 ilu Wnev
I Ihe extended fortllled
la timont
vie plain there wa.s vig-
mnu lighting from tho Herman fron
i iler as far as llm Cnte.1 Lorraine-
Lorralnes.
