fr'
"'T TTt. wTxVl'P'.''l
J '7"
flPfci
WEATHER FORECAST:
, Continual cold,
(Full Report on Page Two.)
HOME
EDITION
m mmt&
'a1
NTJMfcEB 835?4
WASHINGTON, MONDAY EVENING, FEBBTJABY 28, 1016.
PBIOEONJBOBNT.
- "y JWr T?
& j
v&vccm,
BORLANDRIDER
10 BE FOUGHT
BY TRADE BODY
, Chamber of Commerce Execu
tive Committee Authprizcs
Campaign Against Measure.
JbHNG. CAPERS WILL LEAD
Former Internal Revenue Com
missioner to Direct Efforts
Against Longer Hours.
After expressing in strongest
terms individual disaDnrov&l oF the i
c . . , . i.n. , j
OOriand plan for an eignt-nour day
ir. th. r ....- -.-. -.,..:-.. .v.-'0'
In the Government Service, the
executive committee of the Cham
ber of Commerce voted to name o
committee to draft resolutions and
take every step possible to oppose
adding time to the clerks' working
thy.
John G. Capers, former Com.
missioner of Internal Revenue
who asserted nothing would be
gained by adding an extra hour
to the Government working day,
was made chairman of the com.
miftee. Others on it arc Isaac
Gans, A... Leftwich Sinclair, A.
Lisper, and Albert Schulteis.
Mr. Sinclair quoted from on
artjele in The Washington Times,
by Judson C. Wellivefc, which, he
said, "epitomizes the reasons and
furnishes the-atrongest argument
against this increase.''
PRPPnRTPRftllfi PROPOSAL. !
wwu..vw - -- .
Government employes. William F. Gude
expressed surprise at tills.
No Efficiency Increase.
Mr. Capers who. as chief of Internal
revenue, was head of 3,000 Government
workers, said that no Increase In ef
ficiency would bo effected by an lncreaso
In hours.
He said working conditions In the
Government service were peculiar be
cause much of tho business was re-
(Contlnued on Fifth Page.)
- .'.,-
Deficiency Measure
Is Signed by Wilson
.Bill Increases Unlit of Cost for
Constructing Central
. Heating Plant.
The urgent deficiency bill. Increasing
tho limit Of cost of the new central
heating, lighting and power plant fron
i.iui.uu 10 u.tiny.iui, was signed by l
President llson today. I
The bill, which becamn l.w vrlil. thn
President's signature, carried many
Items of appropriation for tho execu
tive departments.
It was on this legislation that a fight
against the central power plunt was
made. Senator Newlands tac'ied on a
rider providing that work on iho Dlont
should be held up until the approval
01 ine fine Aria commission und tint
President was obtained. His aimnd- I
ment was Htrlcken out In conference
inference.
President Wilson signed tho bill as
soon as the engrossed copv readied him
this morning, and work on tha power
plant wilt be vtgoiously pushed. 1'ho
site will soon be ready for actual con
struction. Excise Board Considers
J. W. Walsh Application
Consideration was given by the Excise
Board at a public hearing today to
the application of John Walsh for a I
retail liquor llcenso at 126 Fourteenth!
street northwest. I
Protest against the granting of the r
application was made ny A. K. Shoo-
maker, attorney for the Anti-Saloon i
ijcaguc, on win kiuuiui, mm uii rauy
there arc n number of saloons In the
vicinity of the proposed location. The
applicant was represented by Attorney
Maurice V. Iiosenuers.
The board reserved decision.
House Board Unanimous
To Repeal Sugar Clause
The House Way and Means Commit
tee voted unanimously today to report
nut Kltchln's bill repealing the free
sugar provision of the Unaerwood-bim-jnoos
tariff lw.
The paragraph read by M,.S,nclalr, .ZXLMU,
-It is a preposterous, proposal. 7' S?rt iJ'l SSrfbS
tendency of the times, every effort of me the pnpcra um, r,ac, nbout
social organlxatlon, every asp'ratlon qfllng of the body the next day."
Intelligence Is toward shorter hours and i The confusion Is alleged to have
better compensation. -Every class of .been made by Mrs. Harrison while W.
workers is enjoying those benefits savclli. Wiggins, a suspect, was bring hold
only tho Government clerks " In Jail In connection with tho shooting.
Strong in his opposition to lengthening Tho ohciotfug occurred the night of
hours, was Merrttt O. Chance. Post- December i-2. Tho body was found the
master of Washington. mornlnir of tho !3d. Young Harrison and
He said ho opposed Increasing tho tho ghi were married about a week
hours of Government employes, though later.
those In the Postoftlce Department now The police claim to haVo found sev
worked eight hours. cral discrepancies In tho girl's story,
Mr. Chance said the postofflco cm-, nnd bcllevo another person may hao
ployes get hut fifteen days' annual ueen hired to do the actual shooting,
leave, and no s'.ck leave as do other , -
Borland Receives
Anonymous Threats
Letters in Every Mail Denounces
Him, Says Author of
"8-Hour Law."
Congressman William P. norland, au
thor of tho Amendment reculrlcg Gov
ernment clerks In Washington to woik
eight hours a day, said today that ho
la receiving: (mm threo to n doien
anonymous lottora In each mall de
nouncing him ob the nuthor of such
legislation.
One of the letters lecelved, according
to Mr. Borland, expresses the ardent
atslro of the wrltei to engage In a
fistic encounter with the Mlssourlan,
while another advises' him to get a body
guard.
GIRL'S
CONFESSION
DOUBTIMPOLICE
Texas Authorities Seek Another
as Actual Murderer of Her
Alleged Assailant.
FOnT WORTK. Tex.. Feb. "S.-Kath-
erlne Harrison. Ixtecn-year-old bride
a ,0CttI bnker'H son, says she Is a
. murderssa. The pollco are Inclined to
doubt her confession, and re looking
ror a third party to the killing of W.
L. Warren, proprietor of a rooming
house, whom Mrs. Harrison said, she
shot because he wronged her.
Mrs. Harrison and her husband,
Charles' Harrison, a nephew of tho wlfo
of United States Senator Culborson,
were released on bonds of C2.E00 each.
Mrs. Harrison told tho police. It Is
bllcged, that sho met Warren several
weeks ago and walking with him. stop
ped at his boarding house a few min
utes. She said she later discovered sho
ha'd left her parasol at Warren's place.
Claims She Was Assaulted.
She returned for It and Warren en
ticed her Into a room, locked Uio door
and assaulted her, according to tho
'story told the police.
"I wanted to sco him dead," Mrs.
Harrison In alleged to have told tho
police. "Ono night 1 wns sitting In
Charlie's automobile on Main street. Mr.
Warren pissed by and spoke. It was
then I thought of the plan to kill him.
"I asked him to Co riding, with us,
and ho accepted. Charllo whs across
tho street .getting a shine. When ho
came back I Introduced Mr. Warren,
and we utartdd. When we reached a
lonely plucn in tin roud, I mado out
like I had tire trouble, I was driving the
car' and Charlie was sitting In tho
front sent with mc. Mi. Wnrrcnwos
iu uit; UDL'K IMSUl.
"Ml-. WoTroh pot out and looked at
the back tlroJr. When ho came around
to the front of the car, t took the re
volver Charlie kept In tho automobile
anU r,red nt h,m
f
rti -rf . ,., w -.
Work on Arlington
Hotel Starts Soon
Head of Corporation Says $3,500,-
000 Building Operations
Wil Begin April 1.
Construction work on a 3,600.000 hotel
on the property ut H street, Vermont
avenue and I streots, formerly occupied
by the old Arlington Hotel, will be begu'i
on or beforo April 1 by tho Arlington
Corporation, present owners of the prop
erty. Oliver J. Sands, president of the Amer
ican National Bank at Richmond, tho
seewtary-treasurer of the Arlington
Corporation, announced tcdiiy that ar
rangements for Imildinr tho Imtnl V,rl
been completed, and that constructio-i
would bo begun as soon ns thn tilmm
could be rushed to completion by Wyatt
and Noltlng, Baltimore architects.
As High As Law Allows.
The building as outlined will cover tho
H street nnd Vermont avenue frontages,
and will have us great an elevation, Mi.
Hands sulci, us tho building laws of the
District permit.
A portion of the building at tho out
sot will bo enulnnei! f ntfino. .,. -in
',. . ... . ...' .. '
I uc canaii ucicu in coniorm wiin the re
mainder or tno structure, so that It may
be convcited to hotel purposes nt any
tlmo that tho demands of tho city make
such conversion advisable.
Tho portion of the building to be used
as a hotel will havo 450 rooms, und the
addition set aside for an office building
will. If conveitcd to hotol uses, bringing
the hotel accommodations to a total of
700 rooms.
Three Million Involved.
The slto for tho hotol has cost tho
corporation, nccordlng to Mr. Sands,
approximately Jl.OOO.W). and l-'.MO.CO, or
n,oie, will bo expended In erecting nnd
furnishing tho building.
Thomns W. Power, an engineer who
jm8 )ton leprcAcntlng tho Arlington
Corporation In thin city, has been In-
rirucu'ti ny me owneis to nave ine situ
In shnpo for tho Inylns of foundutloiu
as soon as posalblc
Mr. Powor said that thp corporation
la pushing Its plnns to completion as
quickly na possible In order that Iho
order may be placed for tho tiuctiiral
steel. Tho demands for stcol ure'nl
present so great that much dlfflcultv
Is being experienced by builders in
having their oideis .filled by tho steel
mills.
Every Day The Right Way To Au
gusta, Aiken, Columhlu. Augusta .Special
Lv. Washington 7 p. ni. Southern ltwy.
Advt
MIL'S
niiifiD
FROZEN IN HAL
BANK
Miss Alice D. karr, Daughter of
pureau of Standards Em
ploye, Had Been III.
INQUEST TO BE HELD TODAY
Young Woman Left Home to At
tend Church Had Not
Been .Seen Since. -
The body of Miss Alice D, Karr,
daughter of C. Powell Karr, of the
Bureau of Standards, was found at
an early hour .this morning, frozen in
the shallow water lying In the bed
of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal a
short dlstanco above Cabin John
bridge, by Illchard Anderson, of Great
Falls.
The body was lying, face up, In the
canal, and on the bank was a hand
bag containing a prayer book and a
card which requested any person find
ing It, In case of accident, to notify
the family of Miss Karr, at 1916 Cal
vert street.
Miss Alice Karr had been .In bad
health for some time past and was
subject to attacks of vertigo. It Is
believed by her father that she suf
fered an attack of vertigo while
walking along the canal bank yes
terday afternoon and fell into the
wator.
To Hold Inquest.
Miss Karr left her home yesterday
morning to attend services at Kt.
Margaret's Episcopal Church. She did
not return at the usual hour and her
father notified the police. Atvlng an
accurate description of her clothing.
illchard Anderson, while walking
along the tow path of the canal this
morning saw the body, and finding tho
bund bag, notified tho Washington
police. An inquest will be held this
afternoon.
leniuuii. i
miji Kurr'i. (ailier. who i emnlnved
HANDBAG
in tho metallurgical department of the traj powers before him, President Wit
laKnrvT undnr an nnnarent mental cx for further negotiations, or whether
cltcmcnt throughout Inst vctk.
After lenltiL- her home icsterday
morning, for the purnoso of attending i " . . , , , , .
the services at St. Margaret's, where Conservative opinion In official clr.
the frequently went nt- Sundays, said fles hold to the view that the dead
lier father, it Is his hellnr sho chnngiwl lock may ret be broken by further
her mind, owing to the Ialcr.es of the exchanges. The key to such discus
hour, and continued down Connecticut I sion. It Is stated. Is contained In the
avenue to TJuornt circle. appendices to the German memoran-
Here. said Mr. Karr, hn thinks sh dum.
took a Cabin John Bridge rnr and. These appendices. It la declared, not
nrrlvlng at Cn,Wn John, deeded tr- take- only contnln a summary of tho alleged
a short walk, m the weather was crisp secret orders of the British admiral-
end pleasant. ty directing British merchantmen to
Arrhlng at the Che-an'-akr nnd Ohio use their defensive armament of-
cunal. r.l-out four mile nMe ''shin fenslvely, but evidence In twenty-two
John Bridge, near the Anglers' Club. caes In which, Germany alleges, Brlt-
accnrdlnir to Mr. Karr's theory, thn slrt lih and French ships havo attacked
vrm seUed will an ntt.ick of vertlcn, i German submarines on sight or while
nna tcu into ine snauow wmvr m '"
canal
Not Seen At Church.
Miss Karr was twenty-five years old.
Sh" itm not. r.mrrlcd.
She was lasf seen by her father nnrt
Frank Hnrt, who were talking with h"r
before her depirturo for church Hhe
was not seen in church, so far as can
be ascertained.
Mr. Knrr was notified of the discovery
of the body pf his daughter in the canal
about 8 o'clock this morning. The body
was identified, he thought, by the name
and nddress In the prayer book nna
Bible which she carried when sho left
home, or calling cards In her handbag.
Mr. Karr said he had always taken
care that sho carry upon her person
some means of Identification, In view
of the vertigo attacks.
Mr. Karr will vllt the scene of the
accident and take charge of the body
after the Inquest.
Respite Is Granted
Wall Street Wolf
Supreme Court Agrees to Hear
Whole Case of David
Lamar.
The Supreme Court today gave DavM
lamar, the Wolf of Wall Street, a re
spite from threatened Imprisonment for
Impersonating formor Congressman A.
Mitchell palmer.
It agreed to hear the wholo case on
Its merits, automatically suspending
tho two-year prison scntenco against
Lamar.
The court's action today on several
fihases of Lamar's prosecution Insures
ds indefinite escape from beginning
a penal term. The court denied Lamar's
mandamus petition against the New
York courts to reinstate his appeal
there, but on Its own motion issued a
writ bringing up tho whole record for
final scrutiny and argument.
Wilson Hears Plea
For Army Medical
Committee would Improve School
And Develop It With Walter
Reed Hospital.
I'rgent recommendations fo rtho Im
provement of tho Army Medical School
here, and for Its development In con
nection with the Walter 'Ilccd Hospital
wero laid bofore President Wilson to
day by Dr. J. M, T. Finney and Dr.
Joseph C. Bloodgood, of Baltimore, rep
resenting tho Society of Clinical Sur
gery. Soltfor"Yeggs."
Dl'ntlAM. X C. Feb. IS.-For the
fifth time within twelve months tho
West Durham postoftlce was blown up
bv yeggmen early todav. The robbers
made a clean sweep and .escaped. .
NEW U-BOAT POLICY
NOT TO BE DELAYED,
SAYS BERNSIORFF
Lansing Is ' Informed Germany
and Austria Stand Together
on Submarine Warfare.
DECISION UP TO WILSON
German Envoy and Baron
Zwie'dinek Meet Stony Si
lence at State Department.
BERLIN (via Amsterdam),
Feb. 28. German submarines
will torpedo no passenger liners
without warning, even after the
new order to sink armed mer
chantmen goes into effect at
midnight Tuesday, the United
Press was reliably informed to
day. Furthermore, submarine com
manders will endanger human
lires 'only in case a steamer at
tempts to escape, to fire on the
submarine or to ram her.
Germany and Austria' stand together
in their Intention to Inaugurate their
new submarlno campaign against armed
enemy merchantmen after midnight to
morrow. .
(secretary of State Lansing was so in
formed today by Count von Bernstortf,
the German Ambassador, and Baron
Zwlcdlnek, the Austrian charge d'af
faires, who saw htm separately.
The German ambassador left with tho
Secretary a written memorandum sup
plemented by olumlnous appendices,
Tho position of Austria was set forth
verbally by Baron Zwledlnek, who de
clared that his government was pre
pared to stand with Germany.
President Must Decide.
With tha Identical views of the Can-
there 1 to e seteranco of diplomatic
Li! - ' r- '
uejng warned to nam to.
Lansing Gives No Hint.
Secretary Lansing did not give to
cither Count von Bemstorff or Baron
Kwledlnek any hint of what course
this Government will now lake. The
ambassador supplemented his written
communication with verbal observa
tions as to what ft contained, but the
Secretary Is said to have listened Id
stony silence. Nothing moro was
given to tho Austrian.
Before anything further Is done by
the American Government, It Is ex
pected that a careful study will oe
(Continued on Second Page)
Former Wife Sues
To Annul Divorce
Roberta W. Somervell Asks Court
To Restore Her Rights to
Estate of T. A. Mayer.
Roberta W. Somervell, formerly Ro
berta W. Mayer, first wlfo of Theodore
Albert Mayer, today brought suit In the
District Supreme Court to set aside her
divorce from Mayer and restore her to
the rights of his legal wife and heir.
The action followed the filing last week
of a petition by Frances K. Mayer, sec
ond wlfo of Theodore A. Mayer, to con
strue tho will of Mayer's father. Theo
dora J, Mayer, under which the son
was left a large portion of an citato
valued at (700,000.
On tho round that Mayer's second
marriage Is null and void, the petitioner
asks tho court to make void any claim
of Frances B. Mayer, tho second wife,
Tho Amorican Security and Trust
Company, trustees under the Mayer
will, 1 asked to be restrained from dis
posing of any of the property Involved,
DISTRICT WORK IS
POSTPONED IN HOUSE
By agreement between Chairman
Moon of the Postoftlce Committee and
Chairman Johnson of tho District Com
mittee, District of Columbia business
was postponed In tho House today, and
that body resumed consideration of
tho nostofflco appropriation bill.
Congressman Johnson Is suffering
from a severe cold, and did not feel
equal to the task of handling District
bills today. As it was desired to ex-
pedlto tho postofllco bill, this measure
was called up without objection In the
House.
Supreme Court Moves Up
Case of Alleged Spy
Thq Supremo Court today granted a
reniiest of British authorities to ad
vance for earlier hearing the caso of
Ignatius T. t. Lincoln, alleged uerman
spy and former Parliament member,
who Is appealing from an extradition
order
Arguments war ordered April K
CHECKED AT VERDUN,
KAISER EXTENDS DRIVE
FORTY MILES WEST
Baby, on Blanket Bed,
Survives Maloja
DOVER, England, Feb. 28.
A. brown-eyed baby girl,
warmly wrapped in several
blankets, is one of t,he sup
vivors of the liner Maloja
brought here today.
She had a miraculous escape. A
patrol boat crew picked her
up an' hour after the Maloja
went down, floating on her
back and as comfortable t if
she were in her crib. , ,
She smiled and gurgled baby,
talk when handed up to a
nurse on the deck, and appar
ently was unharmed by expo
sure. It is believed she was
tossed from the rail when the
steamer struck a mine.
The authorities are looking for
her mother among the sur
vivors. IS PLACED AT 169
The Maloja Is Believed to
Have Hit a German
Mine.
LONbOW, fcb?!iWtet,Yep"oTi''!n
dlcato that 168 person. Including fifty
five passengers lost' their Uvea when the
Peninsula and Oriental liner Maloja
struck a mine and sank off Dover yes
terday. The company's office gave out a state
ment today, declaring that sen persons
havo been saved. There were 119 pas
sengers and 292 officers and members
of the crew aboard.
Two more lifeboats and several more
bodies of the Maloja'a dead arrived at
Dover this afternoon.
Dispatches to shipping offices today
brought word of the sinking of the Hus
sion steamer Fetahonga. the seventh
vessel to meet disaster within the last
forty-eighty hours, fifteen of her crew
having been landed. The others. In ad
dition to tho liner Maloja and the Km
press of Fort William, which went to
her aid. are the British steamers Ulrgt
and Suevler. the French steamer
Trlgnac and the Dutch steamer
Mocklenburg.
About a score of women and children
were among those who lost their lives
when the liner turned turtle while den
ens of smaller craft were hastening to
her assistance. The bodies of twelve
women and six children had beon land
ed at Dover today and placed In tho
morgue for Identification. Seceral of
the survivors are near death from ex
posure. All the survivors who reached Lon
don today agreed that there was little
panic aboard. The loss of Ufa among
the passengers would have been very,
small, they stated, had not two of tho
boats collided In the water, one of them
capslilng.
An official Inquiry was ordered today
to determine how It happened that the
liner struck a mine.
German Mines There.
It Is possible that tho Maloja struck
one of the mines the Germans are
known to have sown off the mouth of
the Thames and In the English Chan
nel. lleccnt reliable advices to a New York
shipping Arm stated that the Holland
American liner Ryndam, mysteriously
damaged while en route to Rotterdam,
struck one or these mines, and that an
official Inquiry at Iondon determined
It had been laid by tho Germans, who
possibly operated from a small ship
flying a neutral flag.
Three bodies of Lascar sailors of the
crew of the Maloja were recovered this
morning, bringing the number of iden
tified dead In the Dover market hall,
which was converted Into a temporary
morguo, to forty-seven. Relatives or
missing passengers from London and
other English cities were flocking to
Dover today.
BRITISH LINES WIDEN
. TO RELIEVE FRENCH
Joffre's Men From Other Front
Rushed to Verdun.
OTTAWA, Feb. .-British lines In
Belgium and Franco are being extended
to replace French troops who aro being
rushed to the Verdun region to take
part In tho fighting "which has settled
down to a toirUlc slaughter," according
to advices received here from the battle
front.
Approximately twenty armydlvlslons
(tOi.000 meiO havo been thrown Into tho
battle by the' Germans, whllo tiro
French troops number fifteen divisions,
cable messages say.
British Explode 3 Mines
Successfully Near Loos
LONDON, Feb. SS. British troops ex
ploded three mines successfully near
Looi.. the war office reports.
Tha official statement also reports the
repulse of a Uerman raid on Uriusn
trenches near MarlcourU
LOSS ON STEAMER
0
Berlin Statement Virtually Confirms Claim
Made by French That Onslaught at Allies'
Stronghold Has Been Halted
For Time.
GERMANS GAIN IN THE CHAMPAGNE
1,600 Yards of Trenches and Strongly Forti
fied Navarin Farm Taken in Counter
Offensive; Paris Admits Loss
Through "Surprise."
LONDON, Feb. 28. Checked in the drive on Ver
dun by the arrival of great bodies of French re-enforcements,
the Germans are now extending their mighty of
fensive fo the Champagne region, forty miles west of the
Verdun woods.
An official statement from the German war office
this afternoon virtually confirmed French statements that
the Verdun onslaught has been halted, temporarily at least,
by the Fiench.
At the same time Berlin reported the capture of more
than 1,600 yards of French trenches and the strongly forti
fied Navarin farm, the scene of desperate fighting in earlier
combats in the Champagne.
The gain was made, J3erlin reported, after "efficient
artillery preparatiqn," indicating that -big German how-
"jiU-rs-AApiBbroughtiitto-pla-in battenng;.an-pftlTigf5r
the attack, as at the beginning oflthe Verdun drive. More
Ihan 1,000-French prisoners were taken.
PARIS ADMITS LOSING TRENCHES.
Paris this afternoon admitted the loss of trenches in
the Champagne, attributing the German gain to a "sur
prise attack."
For the first time since the crown prince launched his
great attack against the French fortress, the German war
office this afternoon claimed no important gains in tha
direction of Verdun.
Berlin asserted that all French troops have been clear
ed out of the Meuse loop, in the region of Champ Neu
viile, five miles northeast of Verdun, and added thaj Ger
man lines had been advanced farther in the direction of
Vacherauville and Beras, four miles north of Verdun.
Champ Neuville was surrendered to the Germans sev
eral days ago; consequently, no great German victory was
achieved in driving the remaining French from this region.
Before' the Germans can make substantial progress
in the direction of Bras and Vacherauville they must
storm and capture French positions on Pepper Heights.
The German official statement makes no mention of fight
ing there.
HEAVY FIGHTING OVER RUINS.
Both Berlin and Paris this afternoon reported heavy
fighting over the ruins of Fort Douaurhont, the dispatches,
however, being contradictory.
Paris reported the repulse of heavy German attacks
against the village of Douaumont, just north of the fort.
The Berlinwar office claimed the repulse of new
French attacks against the fort and positions surround
ing it.
German attacks in the region of Fresnes, believed to
have been part of a German plan to squeeze the French
out of Verdun, are diminishing in violence.
Paris this afternoon reported the repulse of German
attacks just northwest of Fresnes.
German Offensive
Spreads Westward
Into Champagne
BKnLIK (via wireless to Sayvllle),
Feb. 2s. The great German offensive
on the western front has now spread
westward to the Champagne region, said
an official statement from tho war office
this afternoon.
After another heavy artillery attack,
the Germans rushed French positions In
the Champagne on both sides of tho
Sommo-Houain road, capturing the Na
varin farm and French postUons on
both sides and conquering about 1,(00
yards nf French trenches. More than
1,000 prisoners were taken.
On the wholo Verdun front, east of
the Meuse, the Germans continue to
fiush forward, the war office reported,
leavy French attempts to recapture
tho ruins of Fort Douaumont have been
repulsed.
'ArMll.rv iin wm v.m.nti havA hn x.
(Continued on Second Fags.)
Kaiser Plans to
End War With One
Blow, Say British
LONDON. Feb. 38.-Wlth all the re
sources at his command, tho Kaiser Is
now striking for an Immediate and
overwhelming German victory, plan
ned to end the world war.
Tho great onslaught against Verdun
Is but the prelude to a grand assault
by tho Germans along the whole west
ern front tho most tremendous offen
sive movement tho world has ever seen,
Tho fall of Verdun possibly in a fort
night Is predicted In Berlin dispatches,
which glvo a graphic picture of he
wrecking of tne powerful rort Douau
mont. "Four shots from tho heavy guns
ilcstrojeil It," says the report. "A
sin-tin shot blew up another fort near
by, Just as old Fort Loncln, at Liege,
lis as destroyed by a Urge callbtued
J
