VOL. 52 NO. 50
IffilFJFIll
: JjJlL JVL l q U u 11 J ijj U
TTMTrTriTTT
f "U i, 1 If ,Jf SI 1 41 ' r"1' 'i'
t mm
Lsr m
Surprise Attack, Admitted
Kaiser's Forces Big , Section of Battle Line Now
Hold 15,000 Prisoners French Unable to Regain
i Fort Dauamont.
Berlin Feb. 28 By Wireless to Sayville Tb3 .capture of
Navarin Farm, in the Champagne,' was aiuiounced by the 'war
office." w ' - ' v y
French .positions, pn boh sides of . Navarin Farm -over a
front of about sixteen hundred yards were taken. It is said over
4,000 men and nine maeMne guns were--captured. , v
' ' - , Germans Still Hold Fortress,.
' ' In the Verdun region, fresh -French reserves were exhaust
led iri fruitless efforts against Fqrt Douamount. The Germans
advanced their lines further' toward Bras, and ; "Vacherauville,
and made fresh gains in the Woevre. " -
- It is said that all French troops have been driven from the4
Meuse.peniiisula.- . :
. Attempts by the 'French to
mont have hot only failed but
continues steadily, according to the reports from the front.
In rapid succession, Liouvmont, Ghampneuville, De. Lou
and Harmorit haveibeen stormed and the Germans, with 15,000
French prisonergin their hands, now stand less than five: miles
iromthe centelrof Vetdtin:- f j';-";;-;'V-: '-,'
- v . Paris Admits Surprise Attack, o;-rV.v. v-v y.,'--
Paris,,; Feb. 8-German' irodps hy ;'a surprise, attack, -have
been successful in entering certain advanced French" trenches
jfiear the Navarin Farm, in the Champagne district v ?
In ihe region to th5 north of Verdun the bombardment pas
continued with intensity', particularly in the central sector, fand
oii the French right- The German forces yesterday evening
made several attempts to capture he village 6f.Douaumon.t
'Their efforts were broken by the resistance of French troops,
who withstood most furious assaults.
OFFICIAL STATEMENTS CONFLICTING v
ON SITUATION IN BIG VERDUN PRIVE
Berlin, Feb. 28. via wirelesss to Say
ille Although further advances have
been made by the Germans north of
Verdun, no changes-of ' great import
i anee In this region-are revealed by he
An oftenglve has been Inaugurated
by the Germans in the Champagne,
resulting In ' he capture of Navarin
farm and French positions oh both
sides for a distance of 1,600 yards. .It
Is said that more than 1,000 Frenfch
were captured. ' "- -
FRENCH OEPICUi TTEW.
1 Paris, Feb. "2 8 So far as the French
official report of this afternoon showy
RENCH STEAMER
WARNED AGAINST
TORPEDOES,SAlLS
. New York, Feb. -28 rThe
-French
line steamer Espagne, some of whos
original passengers - now at sea on
the steamship X&t ayette, . of .' the same
line, ' received anonymous . . warnings
that , the Espagne". might meet with
mishap, sailed today for Bordeaux.
She carried but nine of the 130 pas
sengers originally booked, the others
having taken passage on the Lafay
ette after the Espagne'a sailing date,
Thursday, last,, was postponed to per
mit repairs on the vessel. One
American. Paul ' Tlson, of New "York,
who is going to France to join the
American ambulance - corps, was on
board. r
The 'Espagne is due to reach the
war zone about 10 days hence - ; -,
She carried no guns. -
Evacuation of Bnrrazzo
Long Planned, Says Italy
Rome, -Feb. 28. The evacuation of
the port of Durazzo, in Albania,' is said
by the Italian -press to. have been in
accordance with plana long prepared,
as it had served its purpose as a bass
for reaching; the -remainder of the Serr
bian army.. Italian military-' efforts
on that side of the 'Adriatic will, it is
declared be now directed to the safe
guarding of A-Hona,the port which ie
a bout 80 miles south of ' Durazzo and
which has a stragetic value
greatest lmportaw. .
of the
TrnTT(onnTnTT,msj
TOM!
By, French War Office, Gives
" ' v "
v
retake the fortress N6f Douau-.
the German advance on Verdun
I
the French lines in the immediate vi
cinity Of Verdun are holding firm. . -
At Fort Douaumont, where the
figfatihghas beer- heaviest,'"the situa
tion! is unchanged. -The fortress itself,
apparently, ;is still held by the Qer
mans. In the village of Douaumont;
a few V hundred yards5 from the. fort
there was a furious struggle ' last
night. -. The war office announces that
German attempts to capture the vil
lage' resulted In failure. , r ''
Southeast oi Verdun, over -the line
bending south to St Mihiel, the-Germans
are .pressing the , attack. . The
French statement reports a futile Ger-
man aimcK; against ivianneunes, ; w
miles southeast of Verdun,
AMERICAN SAFE
AFTER BRITISH
SHIR IS MINED
Topeka, Kas., Feb. 2 8-RaIph .Fos
ter, son of xhe Rev. Festus Foster,, of
Topeka, who was a passenger aboard
the steamship Maloja, which, struck a
'mine and sank off i Dover, cabled his
parents today that I he had .' been res
cued and, is unhurt. . .1 . j -
Pice Acre Tract of
Land Near, Remington
.'Purchases Under Option
- - r -- - - .
Options have been taken upon a five
acre tract of land at Barnum avenue
and ' California' street, Stratford . by
New York persons, who it is said, are
seeking to develop the property for
residential purposes. - The tract is al
most surrounded by the purchases of
the Remington Arms . & Ammunition
Co. for Remington city. At the Dan
nenbury realty of ices it was admitted
foday that the options had betn taken.
It 'was denied, that the F.emington
company -was the, principal and the
name of the . present holder was re
fused. -.'.
FIRE IJT OliSEN HOME
A back draft in the' chimney at the
home of Oscar Olsen at 178 Seabright
avenue- at 7:p this morning, caused
alarm "to the , ants and a still alrm
tc- Chemical ' Engine Co. No. 2. The
fire was extinguished by the use of
chemicals and the damage was trifl
ing. . . "" ' ' ' -
.TOH
BRIDGEPORT, CONN.,MONDAY,FEBRUABY 28, 1916
EXPERTS EXPECT
TAX RATE WILL
-PASS 20, M11XS
, , ' ' -
Pruning Ordered By Admin-
, istration Wonjt Bringvlt
1 Below, Is Belief. v
. . .:
PROMISE FIREWORKS '
FOR NEXT MEETING
Former Mayor Clark and
, Dr. Lynch tor Attack Char-
, 1 ities .Extravagance.
Some fireworks,-are expected when
the board of apportionment meets to
morrow afternooq to- set the final tax
rate 'and it is now believed that de
spite tov pruning the 'board' has' been
ordered to do to keep down the tax
rate it will be more than 20 -mills.
City Auditor JCeating1 whiose Judgment-
is (Usually good on- such mat
ters, has estimated that ' a ' tax of j
at least 2.7 mills will be necessary
to carry the city- budget without new
school houses, pavements, sewers and
oiner. tnmgs zor wmcn it is proposea
to bond. . ' ' ' ! '
Former Mayor Frank E. 'Clark and
Jr. ; Robert j.. Lynch are expected to
lead the, opposition tomorrowV after'
noon to granting the ?Z!!,o0 . denclt
which the 'board ?of charities asks Tor
the .building of ' the : new almshouse
and also something "more than $15,000
for furnishings for that building.. The
ttemef. $ 8J aaaste f or -a. -cottae-foit j
the tiprlntenaent' ol the depart
ment has been taken out entirely.
Membere Clark, and- Lynch also op
pose the ' administration plan to add
60 patrelmen to- the poliee force.: They
believe' that 25 new mem, are sufficient.
Neither : member is in sympathy with
the big- bond Issues , projposed al-
though;both favor some direct taxa
tion to .insure the building of -new
school houses. ,
A resolution calling' for a two mill
tax. to provide for new -schools and
their sites may "be. offered to. the board
at the meeting tomorrow. Both
former Mayor Clark- and Dr. - Lynch
have taken the attitude that they
are engage In the people's business
and no matter what the other mem
bers do t'they do not Intend to lend
their efforts to: further' the. aims- of
the administration.
U. S PAINTERS
HONOR ni'KEON
M SIGNAL WAY
Bridgeport Business Agent
Gets .High Vote of Dele
gates to Big Convention -
Altr- T MrTCfnn ' rtt a Wor,tw,
' w w w l, uusmess aEeni ul j,ocai . ier
190
of the Brotherhood of - Painters
and Decorators,, has received a. signal
honor at the hands of members of his
craft throughout the "country. In the
referendum vote-, for the selection of
-delegates to attend the next American
Federation . of Labor .' convention x in
Baltimore, 'he received - the greatest
vote. . . ' . ;-;, ' :" -:. : -i.; '"';
Four .' delegates were . selected - by
30,000 voters.in all parts of the Unit
ed States. MrN McKeon led the sec
ond'' highest, in. number of. votes, by
more than i00.' . There were 14 candi
dates for the four: positions as dele
gates. ; - ';.-.',," ' - ;--..-'
F. J. Buerin of Troy, N. Y., John
J. Z.ynch of Boston. and 'James
Mooney "of Chicago -are the other dele
gates."'.,: ' ' -',--''".-;..
,The referendum was held' in ' No-'
vember 'for-the election of officers and
the, selection of delegates."- Nobody in
this vicinity was elected to office, and
the only office tiolder in' the East will
be Charles. Cullen of Worcester, Mass.,
who was named third vice president.
The count has just been completed.
Members of Local No. 190 and other
friends ' ofi, Mr. " McKeon were pleased
when the announcement of the count
was 'made. He is receiving congratu
lations. - . ' ' '
SPAIN TQ BUY WAR
f ATERIALS IN U. S.
Wadri'd, Feb. 28. A- Spanish -com
mission whieh has been appointed for
the purpose of accepting delivery of
United States manufacturers the -war
materials used iy Spain will leave
Feb. 29 for New Tork on board the
steamship - Manuel Calve. A Spanish
transport,- Almirante Lobo, -will con
vey the war material from the United
S-tates to Spain. . ; , .
Gabriel D'Annunzio the Italian poet.
was dangerously wounded in the right
eye in an aeroplane accident at the
front. i
CIMIQE MM
WIlMMflS
CIEUERICY
i -. : . -!
: " ; s . -,- '''' .- "
Bridgeporter and Pough
keepsie Man, Sentenced to
Be Hanged Friday, Be
fore Board of Pardons.
Hartford, Feb. 28 Harry. E.
Roe, ; of- Poughkeepsie, N. Y.,
and Isaac Williams, of Bridge
port, under sentence to hang on
the night of Friday, March- 3j
for the murder of County Gom
missioner-Gase in Barkham-
sfed in. November 1914, made "a
plea for clemency beforer the
board of pardons at the state
prison in Wethersfield today,
Governor Holcomb sat with the
board.
The men 'appeared personally7 and
told, their stories he- first time they
have testified concerning the crime.
Williarms' wife and his brother Jacob
were present.; , None of Roe's relatives
was thprer ; v ' v " -.
Roe .was first . heard and protested
his' Iniiocence. ." He said he was not
near Barkhamsted at the time, ' of the
murder .J' In conclusion he said: A .
"I hope some day to weet Mt. CSase
and the man who murdered him and
fe-Almiglrty." 1 shall probably zbeet
Almig-rrty
Ma-. Caere and God anyway, but It
wont ' do. me any good, as I shall be
read. -1 wish the. man. who killed him
would come forward." s '
ATLANTIC HOTEL
TO REFORM AND
GET PRIVILEGES
Management
Promises to
Eject Undesirables and '
v s Improve Conditions. ,
LIQUOR SOON MAY ,
BE SERVED IN HOTEL
Stanley and : County Com--missioners
Will Assume :
Besponsibility.
As sootrn as Manager Gardner of the
Atlantic hotel has - removed, the' ob
JectionableX features at the hostelry.
the police, will withdraw the remon
strance . filed against s the transfer of
the liquor license from Kopp'el Ber
ger to the Bridgeport Hotel Co. This
was announced today by the county
commissioners. A. conference was
held Saturday after-noon, at which the
matter was discussed and 1 the hotel
management , Was told : what action
.would be necessary before the (remon
strance would-be. withdrawn.i Presi
dent Stanley of the police, board.
Manager Gardner of the hotel and the
oounty ' commissioners -attended : the
conference. ( '. C ,
; Manager Gardner saidhe,had al
ready posted a special officer in -the
cabaret to see that' order was main
tained ' and added ' that ' the ca'baret
ringers who had ''been rooming in
the -liotel, had been -sent Sslsewhere.
Theyoun'g men .who' formerly loung
ed, in the Fairfield avenue lobby,- much
to. the annoyance ,of. everybody else,
also have been ejected. .
The license at present is held by
Koppel Berger and. as thjs gives him
nor authority to Sell liquor except m.
the, cafe, , the hotel license has been
revoked. y 'That" was the reason why
the transfer . to the Bridgeport Hotel
Co. was requested. ; . the county com
missioners will not 'assign a date for
a hearing on the remonstrance until
they see whether ' or- not the hotel
manager adjusts his difficulties with'
the police. ,
MINERS AND OPERATORS
RESUME DELIBERATIONS
firm
, New York, Feb. 28 The joint sub
committee of miners and operators of
the Central Competitive Bituminous
cial Fields resumed consideration to
day of the mine run plan which: the
United Mine Workers laid before the
operators last Saturday ' in the hop
of working put an agreement this
week for the soft coal miners of Il
linois, Indiana, Ohio . and western
Pennsylvania. The Indiana operators
are not satisfied with 'the basic rate
demanded by the many workers- of
that state and there will be further
discussion over this matter today.
i
ain
WITHIN RIGHTS,
CONTENTION OF
RAID VICTIMS
Clubs Legitimate, Claim of
Persons Caught in Liquor,
Agent's vVisits.
YOUNG EMMETS HAVE
HAD CHARTER 6 YEARS
Deny Charge Thatprganiza-
tion Is. For Purpose; of
Selling Liquor Sundays. ,
rs--. . " rr-. -..-yt. '
""Claiming that the club is a legiti
mate one aad that it" is not being run
for the sole purpose of evading the li
auor law-, by ? selQng to members on
Sunday, members of the Young ; Esm-
met -club of Main istreei . this morning
expressed determination to" contest
their rights in the courts. V,"' y '
The- Young Emmet club was raided
early yestendiay afternoon by Liquor
Agent John Browne and Sergeant Ed
waid . Wagner and. '. Poldceman "' John
Halpin.; When BTOwne-tttempted ' to
gain entrance to' the club he was nW
meatarily delayed, as the doorman t
the .club. demanded to see his book.
When it Was. learned that . he was the
liquor agent- he was allowed admit
tance without further hindrance. - '
' In . the. raid the following, members
were- j 7ursted.'-' "President. - Patrick
ftivas, ag. 22. of 1C2 Park tertra-;-;
treasurer, James Lynch, age -2C W 8U
Myrtle avenue; steward, William. Hen
ry, -age 1 26. of 561- Park avenue: f and
manager, John ' Farrell, : age 29,. . of 381
Myrtle awiue.,' : ; ' -
. Attorney . Thomas M; Cullinan' . Is
counsel' for -ijie EtaTirnet clufc. 'Without
any .preliminary hearing in - the . city
court -today. Judge , Frank L. Wildjer
continued the case until- . Saturday.
Each -of the accused Is charged with
violating the -liquor law by eelling on
Siinday; ; Bonds of sioo were furnished.
Hn the cases of all. , , - ..
juumc duo . la a .CiUD
with. a. charter -from ' the- secretary of
stateC six years old. - The me-m'bers 'aa;
rested claim they, sell to members 'only
but in the opinion of the prosecutins
liquor, agent,, they- have violated the
excise law by selling liquor without
having procured the proper license. -
Liquor ... Agent Browne- ' and - the
liquor squad also made a visit Jto : the
.rcoyai -social colored club, .at-8 7 Bank
street, and . arrested the - pironrietor
William -Thomas,- known as ."Baby
IoIl." .. Attomioy John CI Chamber
lain is counsel for The Royal Social
club. . When the case was called in
city court at f :10 this moi'niTig-prose.
cuting Liquor Agon A. J. Merrilt was
not present and Attorney Chamber
lain procured a oonti-n-ua-nce j in the
case until Thursday morning. Prose
cutor Merritt arrived in city court at
9:30. and felt, much perturbed on
learning that Judge Wilder had con
tinued the case without - first consult
ing- him. .' " : " ., : . -
"You-Tiust remember, vounsr man"
said Judge Wilder to Prosecutor Mer
ritt. ;"that" Attorney Cham'bet-lai'n; is1 a
much .older man than you.: and we
don't see' wjiy ; we ' should . keep him
here all morning awaiting . your- ar
rival. iThe case is continued and that
is aU there is to it," added the court.
jrosecutor. -Merritt was much putJ
out. .-. , aDy ,joy" was released under
a bond of $100 furnished by him-,
self.- ..;..-.'.. , , ',..
. A. continuance un,til Saturday mojrn
Ingv was also, granted in the- case of
Albert Sobolewski, keeper of a saloon
at 753 East Main street. In this raid
six frequenters were arrested. In
the case of the proprietor bonds were
fixed at $100. The frequenters' bonds
were $25. Thomas Walsh, agent for
the' Connecticut Breweries Co., fur
nished bonds..;, -Former .- Prosecuting
Liquor Agent . Arthurf Comley is de
fending Sobolenski. . ,-.. , ,
, Liquor Agent Browne's, squad also
made a visit to the saloon, of John H.
McMurray, at . Railroad, and Myrtle
avenues, yesterday afternoon. Peter
Smith of 240 Gregory street,) was the
only 'person found in -McMurray's
place. . T-he defense will be that the
proprietor and Smith -ycgre cleaning
out the place, and that there was no
liquor for sale. Attorney Thomas
M... Cullinan - is counsel for the de
fense. This case was also continued
until Saturday morning. McMur
ray's bonds were fixed at $100 and
those of the frequenter at $25. .
Liquor . Agent Browne says 'that the
raids were -not linstigated by the head
of . the police department nor any oth
er official and says that he performed
them upon his' own Initiative. -. .
Student Is Held
: For Girl's Death
Lake Forest. III.. Feb. 28.-i-Winiam
Orpet, & University of Wisconsin stu
dent, was arraigned before a justice
of the peace today charged with the
murder of Miarlon Frances Lambert, a
Lake Forest High school student. He
pleaded not guilty and was bound over
without bail to the grand Jury.
st Verd
IDF
Previous Assurances of Safety ForVeaceiul Ships
; -Not Withdrawn in New' Orders to Admiralty,
Says Note From BerlinDefensive Armament
sed For Offense, is
ponement of New Policy in Submarine War
fare Against Armed Merchantmen is Denied.
.Washing-Ion, Feb. 28 In
Lansing- today by Count Von Bemstorff, the German ambassador,"-Gferniahy
assures the United States that it has no iHtention
of revbldng the pledgees' g-ivdn in the LusitaDia case.
:; The note says Germany can conceive of' no reason for
pharig-ig- or postponing- the new instructions to her submarine
commaiiders to treat as" warships enemy merchant, ships armed
. defensively" and- that special precautions- have been taken to
prevent ships that are not armed from being, attacked. "
, The. note at the outset reiterates the' ; previous pledfire&;
which were given on September
safety of unresisting liners, and
government do esnot believe those assurances-have been modi
fied by the new memorandum. ' " -
- During the negotiations over theLusitania, it ays; no men
tion was made i-of armed "merchantmen and that the United
States in one of its notes on the
merchantmen. Attention, then
viously given in which it is stated that the liners will not be
sunk without warning provided they do not offer resistance-
Attention also is called to
government in its notice to port authorities that the presence
of armament on board a merchant yesspl creates the presump
tion that the vessel is armed for offense. 1-' - . ,
It is stated that a submarine
ttf arp an enemy merchantman
man government sets up the contontion that eqpiipmerit and in
f ehtion to resist a warning given by a ship does, not come, with
ii. the definition of .-defensive armameat.' .. L " ' . .
Germany contends thatr a similar
viewpoint; was ' taken ; by the ; United
States ' ajid that - it secured 1 assurances
from thfe Italian, government-that its
armed' merchantmen leaving porta
would not fire upon submarines which
warned them. ; - k. . . ' :
The note then sets forth ' that . the
German government did not , issue its
new) instructions to , sub marine cora-
T.ncirs until after it had some into
possession of confldehtial instructions
by the British government , to the com
manders of British merchantmen, v., ',
It is denied that armed British mer
chant ships," of any . description ' are
peaceful traders and it is declared that
the armament on board all of them is
to be used - especially- fr purposes of
attack."' The charge is made that Aus
trian submarines also have, been at
tacked by armed British -merchantmen
which, the liote declares are not con
forming and have no intention of con
forming to the .issuances given to the
United States by the ; British, govern-
PMAWS . OF TSE .TO!
STRATFORD GELS ; WOW '-
ARE-. WARDS OF, GERMAKK
1.
' "How the' great war in . Europe
makes its' influences felt In this coun
try' and changes the fondest - hopes
of families being, reared thousands of
miles from the scehec of strife, -is il
lustrated in Grasmere, 'Fairfield.
Anna, aged, 14, and Martha, aged
10,- the daughters of John Butkas of
Grasmer.e, had. their future , mapped
out for them, as young women - of.
America. ; They learned the. principles
of English in the schools of Stratford.
Now they are able to write only In
the German language "and they don't
know when they'll 'resume. English.
- In ' the summer of 1914 before a
general war was hinted at, John But-.
kas ' estimated his savings ana -saw,
that he had enough . to send his wife
and .children to "the old country
so that Mrs. Butkas could renew her
acquaintanceships there and and her
children could improye their -;educa-tioh
by travel. The trio went, t6
Lithuanian. In their absence,- he
moved f rom " Stratford to Grasmere,
Fairfield. ' - -
-. Scarcely had Mrs. Butkas and her
children reached the home of her
childhood, when Russia, became in
volved in the the dispute between
Austria and Serbia. Mobilization be
gan and with others, the Stratford
people fled the country. ' 1
They fled afoot, toward the border
of Germany. , After a long and heart
rending journey, they crossed it. ; Mrs.
Butkas Was running, holding' a hand
of each child in one of her own. be
tween 200 and 300 feet over the bor
der and in Germany when , a Cossack
fired, shot, her in the back and she
dropped dead.
Germany was not ithen at war. . De.
spite the turmoil and the million of
go verrmmon tal worries, the interest of
the national officials was excited. The
children were, first cared for by neigh
bors, . but after an Investigation, the
government found for them a prftv&ta
PEICE TWO CENTS
tin Fort
EDIT H7ITh
r
Claim of Germany Post
a note presented to Secretary
1, and Oct. 5, last year; for tha
then goes on to say the German
Lusitania, mentioned unarmed
is called to the-assurances pre
the . statement of the American
commander cannot, be expected
which attacks it and the Ger
merit in a. memorandum of Aug.' 25.
1914, by Sir Cecil Spring-Rice, ths
Britlsh anrrbassador. The German
government says it . cannot see how
the American government, In . consid
eration;, of these facts, -can regard
armed British . merchantmen as peace
ful trading "ships '' -. . -
The., note makes it clear that the
Berlin, government believes its new ;
instructions--"-o , submarine commana
ers are in, accord with the viewpodnt ;
expressed by the United States in. its :
memorandum- proposing a .modus vi
viendi. -- ... ' '.-'..'
Baron Zwiedineck, ' charge of tha;
Austrian embassy,; had ata engagement;
to confer with Secretary Lansing im
mediately .after Count Von Bemstorff,
Austrian's positions -is to be announc
ed as being Identical with- Germany's.
It Is said the Austrian government
charges it has evidence of several in
stances Inwhich Italian, merchant
ships are armed defensively have fired
on Austrian ships.
homo and since -them has been paying
about seven and a half cents a day for
each-for. their board And education in. .
East Prussia. They Shave all the ad
vantages -of v a. private home , and
schooling. '" : -' ". - ;
At'flrist th letters -received from
them by Mr. ' Butkas" were written In ' ,
English. ' By " degrees ' they ; T beoani? ,
Germanic' in- character and now " they
are . written entirely in German, - so
that Mr. Gutkas has to go to a friend, '
Mrs. Caspar Schick,' to have it tram 9-
latd. ; ,.. .. ' . , ,. '
In reply to a letter of Mrl Butkas'
asking. the chaldren if they want anything-
they wrote: "If you want to
send Bomebhlng, don't send much be
cause we have everything wo need
and are happy." : ' . -
The government! has promised to. se )
that th'e children are safely ' on their
way toward home, after the war. In
the -meantime, however, the children,
who ' were 'becoming American young
Women, are rapidly Acquiring the Teu
tonic atmosphere. When they may re
turn, is a; problem,
Butkas ' lived 10 years in Stratford.
He .has married again since the death :
of his first wife.", . .
ANSOXIA STRIKERS BACK
. ipNDERWAGE INCKEUlSES.
Ansonla, Conn.. Feb. 28 The mills
of the American , Brass Co., here,
which have, been closed for nearly
two weeks by-the strike of. more than
2,000 unskilled workers., resumed' op
erations today. All of " the , strikers :
returned to work under the comprom
ise agreement reached last Saturday
bywhich the men receive am. increass
in wages of about 15 per cent.
THE WEATHER
Fair tonight; cSoudy To;-
