Oregon Historical Society
Comp 207 Second St
Ashland Grows While Lithla flows"
City of Sunshine and flowers .
Ashland, Oregon, Litfila Springs
"Oregon's famous Spa'
VOL. XL
ASHLAND. OREGON, MONDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1916
NUMBER 80
TT TTV T IV T SM r"-
Workmen's Condensation Act
Affects Employers and Workmen
Now that the spring Improvement
season Is nenr at hand, residents of
Oregon engaged or contemplating en
gaging In such operations where labor ,
la employed should take notice of our
Workmen's Compensation Act.
Oregon has a law on Its statute
books known as Chapter 112, Session
Laws of 1913, as amended by Chap
ters 271 and 334, Session Laws of
1915, which provides for the compen
sation of Injured employes and pro
tected employers against damage ac
tions as provided In the liability act
under the, common law defenses.
While our compensation act Is
elective, the point of Interest to enT
ployers is the fact that unless same
is rejected, by giving notice in writ
ing to the State Industrial Accident
Commission, they become automatic
ally subject to Its provisions that is,
the employer becomes automatically
responsible for the assessment based
on his actual payroll, plus one cent a
day from each employe, unless the lat
ter has been deducted from their
wages, as is provided by law, and the
state becomes automatically responsi
ble for Injuries that might occur In
course of employes' duties. Such ac
cidents are compensated and taken
care of out of the State Industrial
Accident fund which is created by I
these contributions.
Employers are responsible for these
contributions whether an accident oc
curs on the Job or not, because they
ar afforded the projection of the act,
The law automatically applies to
all operations specified In Section 13
of the act and Includes all manner of
construction work, such as carpentry,
brick and concrete work, excavations,
painting, paper hanging, lathing,
plastering, plunmbing, electric wiring,
etc.
CC'unty and municipal governments
are not automatically subject to the
compensation act.
Any new employer engaging in
such lines of endeavor has ten days.ous operations.
Rumors of Another
Big Sugar Factoiy
There Is going to be something big
done in the Rogue River valley with
in the next year, and the queer part
of It Is no one seems to know Just
who is behind it. Some big Interests
are buying outright and getting deeds
on every available piece of land
which would be suitable for beet rais
ing in" the central valley. Nearly
every day reports come in of another
deal consummated, but just who the
Beveral men who "are getting options
are acting for can only be surmised.
The most plausible guess which has
been registered bo far, and which
seems to have some basis on facts, is
that the Spreckels Interests, who op
erate several great California beet
sugar factories, will erect a factory
in the valley next year. No matter
how they are going about It or when
they will be ready to come out Into
the open, the moneyed Interests be
hind the deal are going Into it on an
Immense scale and appear to be cor
nering all of the good land. They
will be in a position to control not
only the producing outfits but the
beet raising profits as well. Several
Ashlanders who own land in the Sams
valley and Eagle Point districts rei
port sale of their property.
With the Grants Pass factory in
operation by next fall and the possi
bility of another factory by the fall
of 1917, the Rogue River valley ap
pears to stand a chance of becoming
a great beet-raising center.
In line with the partly substantial
ed sugar beet factory rumor comes
a rumor that the land will be colon
ized with Belgians, the colonization
being attempted on a large scale.
Thn Belgians are known to be
among the world's best farmers and
no doubt could raise a wonderful ton
nage of beets from the rich Rogue
Iiver va'ley soil.-
It may be possible that the buyers
are taking advantage of a low stage
in land values to buy up land for
speculation, but this Is scouted by
those in touch with the land situa
tion, who claim that when it actually
comes to buying a piece of property
the price is still pretty well up above
the low price which the speculator
demands. ''
The county clerk at McMfftnvIIle
will 'sell $7,000 -bonds td" build a
bridge across the Willamette ilb'ugh.
from time of beginning to file rejec
tion, but after this period such option
Is lost. An employe not desiring to
come under the act mutt give notice
In writing to this effect to his em
pioyer wumn rineen nays arter enter- ;an auxiliary current service, haveiThe Siskiyou County News of Yroka
Ins his employ. By accepting such Agreed to waive Interest on their prints the following:
rejection the employer releases him,on,ig for a perod not exceed. "1 he sale of the Anderson-Cotton-self
from any contributions upon this 1 f've vears. A committee of hnnrf. wood irrigation district h.dB i ni-
employe's wages but loses protection
of the act In case this particular em
ploye is injured.
Operations not automatical'y cov
ered by this act, such as farming and
the like, can be brought tinder Its
protection upon execution of notice
of election to contribute.
Practically every operation takes outstanding. The oommny Is pay
different rates for the employer, but Ing Interest on $1,200,000 underlying
In all cases the employe's assessment j bonds and on its floating debt, and is! his morning's mall we received sev
remalns at one cent per day or frac- earning almost enough to pay Inter-eral Inquiries from persons through
tion of n day actually employed. Full jest on first and refundlngs bonds, bi't out the state asking for desirable
Information as regards rates, blanks 'as there Is a large amount of neces- ranches eit her In the Anderson-Cot-and
full supplies can be secured at'sary construction under way It was tonwood irrigation district or In see-
any time by making request to the
State Industrial Accident Commis
sion; Salem, Oregon.
That this law is proving most popu
lar with both employers and employes
over the state generally is the state
ment of Ralph E. Koozer, traveling
auditor, who was in Ashland on busi
ness In connection with the commls-
slon this week. He states that a very
great percentage of employers In the
state have taken advantage of Its pree
lection. Including also many lines of
Operations not automatically within
its scope. The success of the admln-
Istration of this law Is also attested
by the February exemption for all em
ployers in good standing and who
have been contributors to the fund
for the past six months. The exemp
tion likewise applies to employee.
This Is i.e second monthly exemption
declared In eight months, which in
addition to the ten per cent reduction
for good accident experience consider
ably diminishes employers' rates
which are fixed by law for the vari-
t FIFTEEN HUNDRED DRINK.
S
Yesterday the fountains in S
$ Lithla park were shut down and S
$ all who wished to drink the $
mineral waters were Invited to S
Q the central station, where $
S Emory Smith and Mrs. Smith S
kept "open house." .Careful S
count was kept of the visitors S
$ and Mr. Smith reports a total
of over 1,200 adults and about S
300 chlldrep drank waters, at 5
S the central station during the S
3 day. During two hours Sun- S
day afternoon over 600 people $
climbed the stairs to the ' sta- 8
$ tlon. Visitors from five states S
$ were among those with whom
Mr. Smith talked. One bun- S
3 dred and fifty were from Med- fc
$ ford, thirteen from Grants Pass
Q and a number from northern
4 California Points.
&
Make Early Run
Across State
A party of three men In an auto
mobile were arrested at Medford
Thursday on advices from Portland
after having established a record In
making the run nearly acrpss the
state at this season of the year. Two
of the men were not held, being lnno-
cent passengers. The third was driv
er of the car, which he had purchased
of the Portland agency and still owed
$500 on it. The agency people be
came suspicious when he laid In a big
supply of supplies on credit and start
ed south Instead of going for a short
trip from Portland as he had In
formed them. It Is assumed that
Smith, the driver, Intended to sell the
car. Deputy Sheriff Leabo of Port
land and a man from the auto com
pany arrived In Medford Friday to
take the car and Smith back.
Oregon City's ordinance prohibit
ing Jitney buses from operating in
that city without a franchise was de
clared valid by the supreme court in
an opinion written by Justice Benson.
A woodenware factory with capac
ity to make a carload dally is seeking
a location at Marshfleld.
Roseburg, Ore., Is planning for a
$75,000 high school. '
Construction Work
Takes Earnings
More than 90 per cent of the bond
holders of the California-Oregon
Power Company, operating In Bdith-
iern uregon and northern California,
- j ami which supplies Ashland with
holclers has the power to make a ready showing its effect In substan
settlement with the company either tlal Inquiries regardng northern Cai-
for cash or stock covering interest in
default. Interest coupons due Janu
ary 1, 1916, were unpaid.
In addition to bonds deposited to
secure borrowed money, there are
$3.2no.nno first and refunding bonds
dnemed best to arrange for a post
ponement of Intest payments on
the $3,200,000 issued boids.
Holders of the $10,000,000 stot.'t
have already paid an assessment of
$1.30 a share and wll' pay another
$2 a share assessment this summer
From this source and from Income
the construction program will be
completed, when It " 's expected that
net earnings will be suf?;.;'e.it to pav
all Interest charges.
Large amounts of tho company's
bonds and stocks are held by resl-
dents o-f Klamath county and thejshown that there is a ready market
Rogue River valley and by residents
pf northern California,
"Peg 0' My Heart"
At Vining Tonight
"Peg o' My Heart" at the Vining
tonight. The advance sale is BUlOhg
the biggest which has greeted any
road, show at the Vining and the play
promises to attract a record crowd
for Ashland. All who saw "Peg" last
year are going again, and those who
did not see the play when it visited
Ashland before have had the fact that
it was "the best ever" drilled into
them by their more fortunate friends
until, nothing will keep them away
tonight. The Vining sevenLpiece or
chestra wl'.l play. Curtain 8:15.
Turn First Sod
For Beet Factory
Before 3,000 cheering, enthusiastic
spectators, ground was broken Mon
day at Grants Pass for the new $600,'
000 sugar beet factory that Is being
built by the Oregon & Utah Sugar
Company of Salt Lake.
Short addresses were made by
Mayor J. P. Truax, Superintendent F.
H. Bramwell of the Oregon & Utah
company, and George C. Sabln, chair
man of the acreage committee.
Little Miss Marian Sabln, daughter
of Chairman Sabln, turned the first
shovelful of earth In the excavation
work for the new factory. The
Grants Pass band played, and as the
first earth wa3 turned there was an
outburst of applause, long and loud.
A giant sugar beet of tinted white
muslin was lowered into the first
hole. The schools adjourned from
10:20 o'clock until noon that the
children might attend the ceremony.
The new factory Is about one mile
south of Grants Pass, on the line of
the California & Oregon Coast Rail
road, and comprising some 150 acres.
In addition to the land actually used
by the factory and the necessary out
buildings, large feed sheds and yards
will be used where the farmers and
stockgrowers may bring cattle for fat
tening on the beet pulp.
Wheels of Shasta
Mangle Tramp
A tramp, name unknown, fell
from the rods of the Shasta Limited,
train No. 11, Sunday morning at
Voorhels and was cut to pieces be
neath the wheels. His head was sev
ered from the body and the body
mangled. Other hoboes who were
riding with him say that he bad
yelled that he could hold on no long
er, but they were powerless to help
him. The men had climbed into the
rods at Medford.
Ashland Tidings wants ads bring
results. ,; ;-' tf
District Irrigation
Drings Settlers
To the fanners of the Ashland
Talent district who are now working
for. the formulation of an irrigation
district, the successful Introduction
of the district plan in northern Cali
fornia should be of great Interest.
Ifornln amis, according to Roscoe J.
Anderson, secretary-manager of the
Northern California Counties' Asso
ciation. " 'Before the end of the summer
every one of the five counties repre
Bt-'iuvu iu ine association win reel tne
effect of his sale,' Anderson says. 'In
tions where Irrigation Is possible or
under consideration."
"The Ba'e of the bonds at $95. 3
Is doubly significant, according to
Anderson, since the district is the
most northern In the state, and this
fact will not only give the people of
the northern section lenewed faith
In irrigation but undoubtedly will
stimulate the southern Lassen and
Eagle Lake districts In Lassen Coun
ty, several projects In Modoc, and,1
Shasta valley In Siskiyou county to!5
greater activity, since they have been
for northern
California Irrigation
bonds."
De Moss Concert
At Baptist Church
. The De Moss Concert Company
last evening rendered three or four
numbers before 250 people assem
bled at the Baptist church.
Tonight they give a full program
at the same place. Eell ringlsg,
readings, folk songs, cello soIob, full
'orchestra numbers, banjo music and
Vardl'8 famous Anvil Chorus will be
features of the program.
Ashland Hand.
Ashland band practices Tuesday
night, 7:30 sharp. City hall.
G. W. Ager Out For
County School Supt.
Ex-Rural School Supervisor G. W.
Ager, superintendent of the Talent
schools, in asking for nomination on
the republican ticket for the office of
county school superintendent of Jack
son county advocates (1) economy In
the superintendent's office (2) super
vision by the superintendent, (3) edL
ucatlon for efficiency.
Mr. Ager received his early educa
tion In Minnesota, where he was em
ployed as principal of a town school
for six years before resigning in order
that he might cast his lot In the far
west. The first fifteen years of his
life were spent on the farm, and be
ing of poor parentage, much of his
life has been a struggle for education
al advancement. He has always main
tained a progressive attitude toward
the teaching profession, however, and
in order to keep abreast of the times
and familiarize hlmse'f with the west
ern school Bystems, he has taken spec
ial courses In school administration,
rural and city school supervision, and
many other educational subjects dur
ing four different sessions In the Uni
versity of Oregon and In the Uni
versity of California. '
Trofessor Ager, who has been In
educational work In this county for
the past eight years, was for two
years rural school supervisor In east
ern and southern Jackson county. He
resigned the position to go back Into
the Talent schools, where he had for
merly taught for two and one-half
years at a salary of $35 a month over
that which he had previously received
In the same school. Mr, Ager Is still
superintendent bf the Talent schools,
where he has been' unanimously elect
ed to the same position for another
year, but seeks a position for which
be has made special preparation and
for which he has long aspired.
The Swift Packing Company has
bought 230,000 acres ot land near
Stan field, Ore.
Get . scale receipts, legal blanks,
etc., at the Tidings office:
Mineral Springs Plant Closed
, Pending Analysis of Waters
Pcnding the analysis of the waters
to determine whether they contain
the same mineral constituents at the
j terminals as they do at the springs,
the mineral water plant will not be
in operation.
Smith, Emory & Company took the
position before tho commission that
the physical plant had been complet
ed according to contract and that the
conipnny would not continue to oper
ate the plant at Its hazard and ex
pense during an Indefinite period,
while another chemist, over whom
they had no control, might hurry or
delay the analysis at will.
The springs water commission took
the position that the city would not
8
GO AFTER CASH.
j
The committee of twelve who $
have the arrangements for the S
dedication celebration, July 4,
? 5 and 6, In charge will start out $
at 9 o'clock tomorrow morning
? to secure the financial support S
S necessary. The class of the at- $
tractions depends upon the size
of the amount subscribed. This ?
$ wlU be the formal opening of $
$ Ashland as a mineral water and $
health resort and twenty thou- S
sand people are expected. Sub- 4
$ scrlptlons are payable In notes, $
half coming due April
20
and
lui f Juno 90 C'uul, .. ill h
cepted, however,
Austrain Artist
Sees Great Future
C. J. Dencdlct, an Austrian artist
who since coming to America three
years ago has established a wide rep
ntation in his line, Is In Ashland from
Pn'rtlntlii with hta wlfo nnd son nnii In I
painting some backgrounds for the!he lmB evolvl'd' "" 89 t1" io
Ashland Studio's photographic work. ! ,rofit by the Pri ot the"-
a..! n ... -t i , , ,. . John Dill, president of the Ashland
Artist Benedicts work is most assur-! 1
ediy artistic and some of his canvass-1 Fru t, and Prod,,ce ;
es which he is doing for Mr. Hin- a ta,k on "0Pt'" h"'h. to us9
., , , , . , the words of one of the growers,
thorne Impress one as being too good ; , ...
i . ., t i i a ,.i if sure had the punch." Mr. Dill la
to the studio to see the canvasses
alone Is well worth while to the lover j
of painting.
Mr Tlnntvlfft la nrldnl.r trnvnll.r1 I
, , , , . , ..
and has visited a great many of the I
. , , . ,
great watering resorts of Europe,
. . , , , . ,, ,
hence his opinions on Ashland s fu-1
ture are bound to be of Interest. I
When Interviewed by a representa-i
tlvo of the Tidings the point which he I
constantly returned to In his talk was
the wonderful scenic beauties of Ash
land, of which he has become much
enamored, and the lithla water, which
he proclaims: "It Is fine, great! The
European resorts have nothing like
it as good."
Ashland's future to Mr. Benedict is
clear. He sees- here a vast resort
which will attract thousands; hotels,
and the hills covered with "villas."
He said: "Your townspeople who
have not seen the resorts of the old
world, have not seen them built from
villages Into grent resorts, can not see
what ABhland has ahead." He de
scrlbed the surroundings of several of
the great resorts of Germany and
Austria,, none of which have natural
sceenry, as he expressed It, "so close
to the resort." He told of the devel
opment of the greatest Austrian re
sort which Is visited every summer
by the emperor, and which he said i
was "twenty years ago nothing but
common farming country, with roll
ing hills, yes, and pretty, yes, but
nothing but the best what you do
build." In Ashland canyon he says
the main things to be worked out im
mediately are footpaths up onto the
hillsides, over which tourists may
travel on "mules" to summer houses
on points of vantage. In the park It
self be says: "T see on each magnifi
cent slope, on each great pile of boul
ders, marble statuary and throughout
the park the artistic things which
people will come to see. Tou have
but the rough beginning. Having
seen the old country pleasure places
as I have, you would know that it
takes time and money, yes, much
money, to build, but this place has
Its what do you call it? destiny,
and It will in a few years become the
great resort."
Turning to the accommodation fea
tures, he told of the great hotels of
Car'sbad, Baden and other resorts;
told of the millions of dollars which
accept the plant until every Item of
the contract had been fulfilled, In
cluding the complete analysis of the
waters.
Therefore the plant is closed pend
ing settlement of that question.
The waters have been sent by the
commission to the Oregon Agricul
tural College for asaljsis. Just when,
they will be completed and a report
received is not known. Usually it
takes thirty days or more to make a
complete analysis.
The commission refused to take
the plant over without a definite stip
ulation that the city might be allowed
to operate it without prejudice to its
final acceptance or rejection.
Fruit Men Have
Profitable Meet
Closest attention throughout Coun
ty Pathologist Gate's lecture on
peach culture, diseases and remedies,
and the lively discussion and eager
questioning which followed, gave evi
dence of tho growers' progressive de
sire to learn from each other and
from authorities at the meeting of
fruit men held at the city ball last
Saturday afternoon. .A good attend
ance from the district from Talent
80Uth wa8 prW)ent and Mr. Cttte was
highly gratified with the spirit of co
operation and Interest which he finds
especially In this section of the val
ley. The lecture was Illustrated with
stereoptlcon views showing the vari
ous stages of the peach diseases and
methods of treatment. Sprays were
explained and methods of application
most suited to valley conditions were
outlined.
The fruitgrowers are fast being
united Into a harmonious co-operative
body which augurs well for the
future of the Industry. Each grower
is anxious to offer, for the benefit of
his fellow growers, any Improved
method of money-saving device which
himself one of the biggest factors in
the securing of the growing spirit of
cooperation which is becoming evl-
: dent.
These meet ngs should be attended
by every grower In the district. It
' ., , , ,. , ,
w ll pay. Meetings will be held at
ientu unce it iiiuimi hiiu uiifiiri u pun-
sible. Watch for announcements.
Rumor of Murder
At Wildeiville
A rumor is prevalent to tho effect
that the Methodist minister at Wlld
ervllle and his wife were murdered
last night. Investigation reveals that
It was not the minister, Rev. Cran
shaw, but a man by the name of Ager
who was killed. No details were ob
tainable. Before taking advantage of the
union high school gymnasium at
Gresham, Ore., students must procure
a physician's certificate as to physi
cal condition.
had been spent In artifically beautify
ing entire resort cities. He urged
that In building sanitariums the sites
should be selected on the outskirts.
the hotels In the center of the city.
On the hills around the city should
be built beautiful "villas" where
tourists who do not care for hotel life
could come to spend maybe two or
three months each summer. And
throughout his enthusiastic talk he
constantly urged, "Build well what
you build. Tourists who will coma
will not sleep In a dollar and a half,
room. In the old world they pay at
the resorts from twenty to fifty doP
lars a day for rooms." It Is the rich
people who will come to the resorts
here as they do in the old country.
In Mr. Benedict's opinion. He told
of one resort In Austria which had no
scenery but low rooling hills, barren
of trees, and no water but which was
artificially beautified and developed
on such a big scale that the crowds
came and are still coming.
In summing up the Austrian said:
"It will come slow at first, but faster
and faster, and a few, years will turn -your
city into a place which you will ,
not know." j
