RE$4 ! R k&
lu THK n KATllUH, !
J Till: MJIIGKlt Is niWcrll(.lnir
medium Hint brings tcsnllo. Oar I
I rales tiro consistent with clrcn !
! Inllon. Hooks open (0 Inspection.
I' .J.
I I ! ! I I I ! ! J J j
JaylV 'fbdajrj tomorrow iro!i !
' HDtJ- SHOW, f
J J J J f J J J J 2
XXK& V HKPVBUCAX-M1.
pail r rvnua x iwaiui-Hn
MAYSVILLE, KENTUCKY, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY tJO? 1016.
AlfHllntF Aim immi
P.
1 H
r
1
1
1
t
"Ar euro ns tho vine
Twines round the stump!"
Ho wrote, "you nro
My sugnr lump."
And alio replied
To tills love-sick chiTup;
"If wo wed for n living
You'll liavo to hump."
Florida Times-Union.
I.O.ST AXOTIIKR IIOItSK.
(Mt. Olivet Tribunc-Democrnt.)
Troubles sometime follow thick and
fast, and In tho loss of work horosc
within the last few months Arts
Throckmorton has had his share. Sun
day ho lost another good work horse.
Tho animal was in apparent good
'health, and that morning had eaten
'heartily of liny and corn. A fow hours
afterward It was found lying down
near tho bam and closer examination
revealed It was dead. Mr. Throckmor
ton has lost by death four good and
useful work horses within tho last
eighth months,
While Robertson countyinns nro en
joying sure enough butter at 18 cents
per pound, Mnysvllllans nro "enjoy
ing" it at 35 and 40 cents per.
MAIL ORIIKRS 1'HOMI'TI.Y FII,I,KI.'
For nil grades of whiskies and
lluuors. Our prices nro right. Order
today. I'oyntx llros., Covington, Ky.
J. II. Colvln of Augusta, and C. B.
Wilson of Paris, wcro transacting
business In Maysvillo Saturday.
Mr. Ilonson Orr of Ixgnn, W. Vn.,
is visiting friends nnd relatives In
Mnysvlllc.
CITY ASSESSORSHIP
James Klcvvnrt KeNlgnx, Having Reg-
Mored and Volcd In
Cincinnati.
CREDIT ASSOCIATION
0 the MnysTllle Chamber of Com
mcrco Established With Tvtentj
Kite lluxInesRcs Represented
Councilman Thomas M. Husscll,
chairman of tho Ways and Means
Commlttco; City Attorney John M.
Calhoun, nnd Chief of Pollco James
Mnckcy were in Cincinnati Saturday
to ascertain whether or not Mr. James
Stowart, city assessor-elect, was a
voter in tho Queen City.
Mr. Stewart's name was soon found
on the registration book and the In
vcstlgatlng committee made an en
gagement with Mr. Stewart to dis
cuss tho matter.
Mr. Stewart wrote out his rcslgna
tion after City Attorney Calhoun cx
plained that he was Inellgiblo for the
olllcc. A now assessor will be elected
at the next meeting of City Council.
Harbeson Garage
Will Put Your Car in
Good Order For
Spring
Parts and Sup
plies Gars For Hire
GoodJyear
Fortified Tires '
FORTIFIED AGAINST
Rim-CuU hy the No-Rlm-Cot featuto,
Slowouu liy the "OnAIr" cure.
Loo.Tred by many rubber rivet.
Inaecurity by 126 braided piano wire.
Puncturei and Skidding by the double
thick AU-Wcather tread.
THE FRAME WORK
In any building operation requires
greater caro than a great many peo
ple imagine. The lumber thnf goes
Into it should ba of tho best becauso
it constitutes the inner shell. Let
that weaken and the whole structure
begins to totter. This Is good advics.
Come hero and buy.
The Mason Lumber Company
Corner Limestone uud Second Streets.
I'liono 519.
A A. McLaughlin. U II. Ilelinn
Here Is the
1 Lucky
Number I
3ft ft I
Last Wednesday night nt tho Cham
ber of Commerce meeting held In tho
Council Chamber, tho Credit Assocln
tion of the Maysvillo Chamber of Com
mcrce was formed, there being twenty
five different business houses reprc
Hcntcd, and all signified tlteir Intcn
tion of tnklng membership In tho Cred
it Association, and slnco tho meeting
the secretary-manager has been In
formed by qulto a number of other
merchants and business men of their
Intention, to join tho association, a
great many of them stating that they
would have attended tho meeting but
wcro prevented by some unavoidable
causes. There will bo another meet
ing of tho Credit Association held In
tho Council Chamber Tuesday night
February 29, at 7:30 promptly.
At this meeting further discussion
of tho details of tho Credit AssocI.t
tion will bo had and any questions that
any one wishes to ask will be an
swered. Tho rating Information
blanks will bo distributed to members
ot this meeting. These blanks will
call for tho following information on
the party who is rated: Nruno, nd
dress, occupation, how much lie owes,
whether samo is past due, tho mer
chant's opinion as to the integrity of
party rated, whether party rated
meets Installment payments, whether
ho Ib flnnuclally good or prompt pay,
or safe to credit but slow pay, or pays
but risky limited, or demnnd ensb.
Each member of tho association will
be pledged to give a complete rating
upon each of his credit customers,
whether they aro good, medium or
bad. Rich member of the association
will be recognized only by Becret code
hy the secrotnry-manngcr nnd his as
sistants, and the information given by
each member Is treated strictly confi
dential Insofar as the member's name
Is concerned.
For the information of tho people
at large, let it be understood Hint
credit association is not formed to do
any pn,c harm. It promotes nothing
J)Ut what is nbsolutely fair and just
to nil. Should any differences arise
between the debtor and tho creditor,
tho secretary-manager will bo glad to
assist in bringing about a thorough
understanding nnd settlement of same,
the motto "Equity nnd justico to nil
and special privilege to none" best
exemplifies the work of a Credit As
sociation. It should be thoroughly
understood that tho members of the
Credit Association have pledged their
confidential treatment of all Informa
tion and that no one not so pledged
will bo given any information con
cerning any one. It should bo fur
ther uderstood that this is strictly a
business proposition and plays no fa
vorites; a person's rating will be
just exactly ns tho experience of the
business man designated; what Is
black will be black and what Is white
will be white.
Tho public service companies' nnd
several of the banks havo already
promised to co-opcrato with tho Cred
it Association with a view of making
tho association a great success. No
one ecept tho secretary-manager and
his assistants will have access to the
association flics.
Who Has It?
MIKE BROWN
THE SQUARE DEAL MAN"
CLAM CHOWDER,
Flunau Haddock, Uloaterj, llerrluif, Codfish, Shrimp, Lobsters, Crabs,
Fflk Flake, Tuna VIhIi, Fat Mackerel, Authorises lu Oil, Caralr, Outers,
gsfilaes. Seasonable right uovr and the quality Hue, Send u your order.
' MMXL 400MIAD. . , , . , MwM 41,
ft. ,
flood itoads .Meeting.
Thero will bo a meeting of tho
Good Hoads Division ot tho Chamber
of Commerce held in tho Council
Chnmber Tuesday evening, February
29, right after tho meeting of the
Credit Association of tho Maysvillo
Chamber of Commerce. Tho following
gentlemen composo tho Good Roads
Division: A. Cloonoy chairman, E. T.
Kirk, W. Holton Key, Stanley Reed,
James I'urdon, Mlko Drown, Thomas
A. Keith, Thomas h. Ewnn, O. L.
Bartlctt, H. J. Cochran, J. Foster Bar
bour, J. X. Kehoe, C. E. Dietrich, John
J. Altmeyrr, E. F. Iloyd, Jr.. Maurlco
IKIrk, John D. Keith, John Hnrbeson,
'J. W. Leo, A. I,. Glascock and Frank
Allen.
THK IU'LK OF TIIRKh',
Uro Company No. 1 responded to
three alarms of flro Sunday and
Mondny, the first being sent lu from
jthe O. & O. depot, whore a camp car
had boen sot on fire by hoboes. Tho
second was from tho rcsldcnco of
Mrs, John Mathews, corner of Union
and Socond streets, Sunday night,
where lire bellovcd to havo been of
Incendiary origin destroyed u coal
shed. The third alarm was sent lu
ut 5:45 Monday morning from tho
cornor of Wall and WcBt Second
streets where tho building ownod by
O, Oreonlee was slightly dnmuged by
flro caused from n defective flue.
FOR salt:. ;
Gonoral nalo of household goods, In
cluding piano, sowing machlno, bed,
dresser, wardrobe, etc. Call and got
prices over Wood's Meat Market on
Market street.
MRS, K. V. MOOREFIKLD.
REPUBLICANS MEET
AM SKLKCT DELEGATES TO AT.
TEND SIXTH DISTRICT COX.
VEXTIOX 1'KIIRUARV 21)
AT MT. STEHLI.WI.
I'lilrlmnkM Indorsed For President
Cochran nnd Wlnu Indorsed
For Delegate!) To Xnttonnl
Contention.
Tho Republicans of Mason county,
pursunnt to call, met at tho court
houBO on Saturday, February 29, at 1
i clock and elected dolcgntes to at
tend tho Ninth District convention,
which meets nt Mt. Sterling on Feb
ruary 29, and also elected delegates
to attend the stnto convention which
meets at Louisville on March 1.
Tho meeting wns called to order hy
Mr. Clarence Mathews, county chnlr
man. C. E. Dietrich was appointed
secretary pro torn.
Tho official calls wore' read, after
which Hon. James M. Collins was
elected permanent chairman of the
convention and C. E. Dietrich secretary.
Tho following resolution, being In
troduced by Mr. Clarence Mathews.
was then unanimously ndoptcd:
Resolved, That all good Republicans
bo and they are mndo delegates to the
district convention to be held nt Mt
Sterling, February 29, and to tho state
convention to bo hold nt Louisville,
March 1. 191C;
Further, That the vote of Mason
county be cast in the district conven
tion for R. II. Winn of Montgomery,
and W. D. Cochran""bf this county, ns
delegates from tho Ninth district to
tho Nntlonnl convention to be held at
Chicago In June for the purpose of
nominating tho Republican candidates
for Presoident and Vice President:
Further, That tho vote of Mason coun
ty be cast In the district nnd state
conventions for instructions for Hon.
Cbnrles W. Fairbanks us Republican
candidate for President.
After somo discussion ns to the best
method of reaching Mt. Sterling, the
convention adjourned.
Tho convention was a quiet, harmo
nious gathering of men who looked
uml acted ns if they meant business.
Misses Marie nnd Josophlno Mosor
of Covington, aro guests of Miss Elln
Mao Murphy of Fourth street.
jiii. v, ji. yorxti seihocsly ill.
Mr. F. M. Young, formerly of this
city, whero he Is well known, now Mt
Olivet's oldest morclinnt, nnd who
served many years as postmaster
there, Is Bcriously III nt his homo of a
complication of diseases. Mr. Young
is In his seventy-fifth years nnd has
boon nctlvo In business nffnlra bIiicc
early manhood. .Monday was tho first
court day he has foiled to bo nt his
business since ho hns been lu busi
ness. Tho many friends of this ven
erable nnd highly regarded citizen
hope his condition will change for the
better and that ho will soo ho able to
be about again.
IIAIIY SJIOTHEHEI).
Pliocbe, a 9-months-old baby daugh
ter of .Mr. and Mrs. Elmer Gilpin ot
Sandy Springs, In Lowls county, while
lying asleep on tho bed nbout noon
Thursday got under tho cover nnd
was smothered to death. Tho remains
wcro burled at tho Sandy Springs
Cemetery Friday.
In settling the question of citizen
ship ot Americans who have enlisted
in foreign armies tho case of John R.
Langford of Harlan, Ky., held in De
troit on n forgery charge, will bo made
n test.
n
NEtfER FRIES HARK
In preparing bacon for you brcnkfnst, It should bo noticed that
"P Wt I Hllim:" Ilacon, oven though done to n turn, will retnln its rich,
golden color. This Is ono of th distinctions of "PAUT.RIHOK" Rncon,
In that Its very nppenronco on your breakfast table, crisp, tender, gold
en brown nnd piping hot, will nrouso and stimulate tho most sluggish
nppctlte. So perfect Is tho cure of the "PARTRIDGE" Rncon, that
It can never fry dark. Order a pound todny.
1D7 1ST. Secand St.
Flume 2D.
Dinger Bros.,
a
M
N
m
M
n
H
m
(
K
M
The friends of Miss Mabel Crowoll FOR SALE.
will bo glad to loarn Hint sho Is itn-, Cash register in good condition;
proving rapidly. .cheap. Apply Irn Newell. f25-3t
!HELLO!i
Yes, this Is 91. WILLIAJIS DRUG COJIPAXY. Limestone Phos- ag
phnto? Yes wo havo It. Hepatic Salts? Yes. What else, plcaso?
Thank you. Your order will bo delivered In flvo minutes. Wo can J
highly recommend tho articles you havo ordered. They havo been ag
thoroughly tried hy soveral of our customers. Nothing better lot'
stomach, liver nnd bowels. Call again. 2
All tho latest patterns in wallpaper Miss Annie Caproni Is ill at her
at CRANE & SHAFER'S. . homo on West Second street
THE HDME DF QUALITY CLP THE 5
A BIT EARLY FOR SPRING SUITS
YET WE ARE SO ENTHUSIASTIC OVER OUR SELECTIONS OF THE PRODUCTS OF
THE BEST MANUFACTURERS OF THE COUNTRY THAT WE CAN NOT REFRAIN
FROM TELLING YOU ABOUT THEM. HERE YOU FIND THE MAKES OF: HIRSH
WICKWIRE, STEIN-BLOCH, R. B. FASHION. SOCIETY BRAND, MICHAELS, STERN &
CO., AND OTHER NOTABLE HOUSES.
HAVING BOUGHT PRIOR TO THE BIG ADVANCE WE ARE ENABLED TO SELL
SPLENDID SUITS FOR $12, $15, $18, $20 AND $25. AT YOUR LEISURE, COME IN AND
LET US SHOW YOU THESE EXCELLENT VALUES.
WE HAVE OUR ENTIRE LINE OF SPRING SHOES
WE SHOW THE FOLLOWING MAKES: HAN AN, NETTLETON, WALK-OVER, DOUG
LAS. JUST RIGHT AND B ARKER-BRO WN, REPRESENTING THE BEST FOOTWEAR IN
THE LAND.
SOESIIISrGHE.i:?. GO.
The
Last
1916
Word
Linen
of Hunt's
Sale
Beauty of design and excellence of quality mark the damask table cloths and napkins offered in our
Linen Sale as particularly good values.
Realizing that the foundation of a well chosen supply of linens consists of tabic cloths and napkins, we
have spared no effort to present a complete range of design, size, quality.
The table damask besides embodying the'most pleasing designs, offers patterns that are examples of the
highest art of fine weaving.
As to size and quality we are prepared to meet the every-day or occasional requirements of the large
or small family from simple cloths to cover the breakfast table to the more elaborate dinner cloths.
The provident housewife who delights in the possession of a good supply of fine table linen will take
advantage of this opportunity to secure it at prices we may not be able to duplicate for a long time owing to
conditions in the European market.
Saturday, March 4th, Closes the Sale
Mrs.. Nancy Armstrong of Flemings-
burg, was a Maysville shopper Saturday.
Our now Spring wallpapers aro Sir. Dan If Lloyd of Gcrmantown,
ready for your Inspection, Como in. . was n business visitor in this city
CRANE & SHAFER. Isaturdny
Sunday wns a beautiful bright sun
shiny day but tho wind was bltins
cold.
Our New York office was one of the largo buyers of Rugs iu the big auction sale
J held by Alexander Smith and Sons last October. This concern makes tho best rugs on
tho market such as Tapestry, Brussels, Axminstcrs, Velvets and Wilton Velvets. Wo
have received nearly all tho rugs duo us from this sale. You will find an inexhaustible
m stock of desirable patterns in all patterns. Had wo to purchase rugs today on the open
9 market through jobbers (like most of tho retail stores must do) we would bo compelled
to advance our prices at least 25 per cent. Now is the right time to buy rugs. Tho
J prices wo quote today aro for rugs wo have now in stock. Come in and compare our
prices and quality with any concern in the United States, but DO IT NOW.
S !BSSS 3ESi SEE tfk. Hli S3& 2
.S3
'1.
