IE Today's Metal Prices fi 4lv& 4S STViViVvivX I 4 P. M. CITY EDITION I
1 NEW voRoTAT,oNS V J I V 9 J 1 1 II V 1 1 2SI it 1 1 LI (1 I LI TEN PAGES
j New York, Feb. 28. Silver, 66 5-Sc; JI L fM m? JW W W A7 W TK " T ''' f fc 5 v
J' lead, $6.40; spelter, not quoted; cop- w -r- teX-' Tl' -w w V J ' "VT UTAH: Fair tonight and Tuesday; H
K per, firm; electrolytic, $28.50, $27.50 i colder In south portion tonight; i H
Wt and $27.00. a& t'feJ warmer In northwest portion Tues- '
Ji HAS THE LARGEST PAID SUBSCRIPTION LIST IN OGDEN AND WEBER COUNTY, ' : J M
W -tyslxth Year-No. 50. Price: Five Cents. OGDEN CITY, UTAH, MONDAY EVENING, FEBRUARY 28, 1916. Entered as Second Claa0 Matter at thoPo,tolle. Osden. Ltah l
I Great Battle at Verdun Forts Continues With I
Unabated Fury; Germans Holding Douaumont I
1 GENERAL JOFFRE BRINGS UP HEAVY
REINFORCEMENTS IN TITANIC FIGHT
I w
H M
I 1 Infantry Sweeps Down at Unexpected Moment and Mows
I I Great Waves in German Ranks Counter-attacks Mark-
I I ing Turning Point Paris Claims Enemy Is Checked,
I 1 But Berlin Reports Troops Still Advancing
l on Great Stronghold.
1 London, Feb., 10:08 a. m. The Russian steamship
H : i Pctshenga has been sunk- Fifteen of those aboard were saved.
I The Petshenga was formerly the German steamship Eijik Lar-
1 ' sen, which was captured by the Russians early in the war.
I i She was of 1 ,647 gross tons and was 260 feet long.
I
' Paris, Feb. 27, 11:15 p. m, (Delay-
1 i ed) Impetuous counter attacks by
I French troops north of Verdun in
I' ) which the Germans were thrown back
r from many positions conquered by
S them during the first four days of
i 1 the battle, according to reports from
, I the front, are considered as inaugur-
u jf ating a second phase of the action un-
i der conditions most favorable to the
ft defenders. Premier Briand told the
f representatives of the press today
I how the tide was turned.
I "Caught between two barring fires,"
7 i said M. Briand, "covered with shrap-
' w nel from all sides, attacked by our
i fresh divisions surging upon, the field
. ' of battle at an unexpected moment.
9 tbe Germnns saw their efforts stopped
I it Our heroic troops went into the me
hl lee frantically. Our light and heavy
artillery dug sanguinary furrows in
3 E the campact ranks of the Germans.
5 "Finally exhausted, their ranks deci-
: mated, the German armies recoiled
. I under our furious counter attacks.
' , "Wo have regained the advantage. In
stalled upon 'formidable positions, our
heroic soldiers remained masters ol
( , the field of battle."
,' ; French Lines Holding Firm.
J ; Paris, Feb. 28 So far as the French
f official report of this afternoon shows,
I the French lines in the immediate
jf vicinity of Verdun are holding firm.
f The German attack is developing
j along the 'front east and southeast.
J At Fort Douaumont, where the fight-
fe ing has been heaviest, the situation
ft is unchanged. The fortress itself ap
f, parently is still held by the Germans,
j f In the village of Douaumont, a few
' hundred yards from the fort, there
was a furious struggle last night The
,y war office announces that German at
I tempts to capture the village resulted
1 in failure.
Hi Germans Press'ng Attack.
II I Southeast of Verdun, over the line
I j bending south to St. Mihiel, the Ger-
II j mans are pressing the attack. The
I French statement reports a futile
HI German attack against Manheulles,
Iten miles southeast of Verdun, which
' may indicato as advance In that quar
ter although the precise location of
the front In this sector has not been
made known.
German troops, by a surprise attack,
have been successful in entering cer
tain advanced Fronch trenches near
the Navarin farm, in the Champagne
it district.
II;; Verdun Bombardment Intense.
I , In the region to the north of Ver-
I dun ihe bombardment has continued
I with intensity, particularly in the cen-
I I , tral sector and on our right. German
I ! ; forces yesterday evening made sever-
I M al attempts to capture the village of
BJ J Douaumont. The efforts were broken
j j by the resistance of "Fronch troops
I ' ; whp withstood the most furious as
PI saults.
I! Fort Douaumont Encircled.
The situation at the fort of Douau
mont is without change. This fort
s Is closely encircled.
In the Woevre district the Germans
; yeslerday evening and last night as-
1 flumed an attitude of greater activity
The railroad station at EIx after hav-
L ing changed hands several times, fin-
1 ally remains in possession of the
r French.
All the efforts of the Germans
j against Hill No. 255, near EIx, were
i without result.
A German attack aaginst the French
, positions at Manheullcs resulted in
complete failure. French artillery is
If roplying with energy to the bombard
I . ment of the Germans along this entire
) front.
r i Tbe text of the communication giv-
il en out by the French war office rends:
JJ "In Belgium our batteries have
fit
DON'T MISS
" 'THE PAINTED
I sour
A vivid drama of the
Underworld.
AT THE ORPHEUM
TONIGHT
W
bombarded German organizations lo
cated opposite Steenstraete.
German Surprise Successful.
"In Champagne, In the region of the
Navarrin farm, north of Souvain the
enemy was successful by a surprise
attack in occupying certain trenches
.of our andvance lino. They also took
a supporting trench.
"In the region north of Verdun the
bombardment has continued with in
tensity, particularly In the central sec
tors and on our right. There has been
no further attack on the Coto du Poi
vre. French Withstand Furious Assaults.
"Yesterday evening German forces
made several attempts to occupy the
village of Douaumont Their efforts
troops, who withstood the most fur
ious assaults
"There Is no change in the situa
tion at the fort of Douaumont which
still remains closely encircled. The
fighting is less spirited on the plat
eaus .north of the village of Vaux.
"In the Woevre district, the enemy
yesterday evening and last night as
sumed an attitude of greater activity.
The railroad station at Elx, captured
and recaptured several times by at
tacks and counter attacks, now re
mains in our possession
"All the attacks against Hill No 255
southeast of EIx were futile, falling
to dislodge our troops.
German Attack Fails.
Further south a German 'attack
against Manheulles resulted in com
plete failure.
"Our artillery is combatting with
energy the bombardment ot the enemy
al6ng all this front.
"In the Vosges we have bombarded
several German barracks In the region
of Ban de Sapt."
Germans Capture Navarin Farm.
Berlin, Feb. 28. By wireless to
Sayville. The capture of Navarin
I farm in the Champagne was an
nounced by the war office today.
French positions on both sides of
Navarin farm over a front of about
l.fJOO yards were taken. It is said
more than 1,000 men and nine ma
chine guns were captured
in the Verdun region fresh French
reserves were exhausted In fruitless
efforts against Fort Douaumont, The
Germans advanced their lines further
toward Bras and Vacherauville and
made fresh-gains in the Woevre.
It is said that all French troops
liavo hnoti 1rlvrn frnm it AfnnRR
peninsula.
The text of the Gorman official
statement reads:
"There have been exceedingly vio
lent artillery engagements at several
places.
"On the front north of Arras there
has been intermittent mining activity.
The Germans blew up about forty
meters of an enemy position.
"in the Champagne the Germans,
alJer efficient artillery preparation,
began an attack on both sides of the
road from Sommepy to Souain. They
captured the Navarin farm and
French position on both sides abouc
1.G00 meters long and took prisoner
2(5 officers and 1,009 men and cap
tured nine machine guns and one
mine thrower.
Germans Holding Douaumont.
"In the Verdun district new masses
concentrated by the enemy were ex
hausted in unsuccessful attempts to
attack tho German positions in and
near the fortress of Douaumont and
Hardaumont.
"Tho Germans have cleared the
Meuse peninsula of enemy forces.
"The Germans advanced their linos
further in the direction of Vacherau
ville and Bras.
"In the Woevre tho foot of Cote
Lorraine was reached from tho east
at several places."
Review of War Situation. '
Not only Is the impetuous German
drive on Verdun being pressed vigor
ously, although with less rapid pro
gress by the crown prince's armies,
but aggressive evetion on a large scalo
has developed in the Champagne dis
trict where the Germans, according
to Berlin, have stormed and captured
nearly a mile ot French trenches and
have taken more than 1,000 prisoners.
The new movement in the Chiun
yagne is on a front much nearer Paris
than the scene of the operations
against Verdun, the former front be
ing approximately one hundred miles
from Paris, while tho Verdun fight
ing area Is roughly 140 miles distant
German Lines Extended.
North of Verdun the .German lines
have been extended somewhat to the
west, the loop of tho Meuse around
Champneuvllle having been cleared of
tho French, the Berlin statement de
clares. The French, .howevor, have stopped
tho German drive in the tort Douau
mont sector. Apparently the Germans
still hold the fort itself but their fur
ious attacks upon the village of Dou
aumont nearby were failures, accord
ing to the French war office.
Tho great battle of Verdun, now
entering its second week, is continu
ing with unabated fury, with the Ger
man armies driving hard at the
French defenses along the lengthen
ing line which now runs far beyond
the salient In which lies the fort
ress. Paris asserts that, with the pour
ing in of heavy reinforcements for
General .Toffre's armies, tho German
advance has been checked, but Ber
lin claims a continuation of the for
ward march on the French strong
hold. Along the Meuse, northeast of Ver
dun, the Germans have been unable
to make as rapid progress as In the
initial stages of the battle, and even
on the Woevre front where tho
French at first fell back, they now
appear to be offering resistance
The French defensive operations at
places are- taking on the nature of a
counter offensive.
According to a statement by Ar
istlde Briand, the French premier, tho
French, after the fourth day of the
battle brought up strong reinforce
ments at an unexpected moment and
the infantry, sweeping down upon the
Germans, who already were suffering
heavily from the effects of the
French artillery fire, stopped them
short and even drove thorn back. The
tiramlar Horln rptj tho EVpnMi "hnvn
now regained the advantage, the be
ginning of their counter attacks mark
lug the turning point of the battle
which Is now In Its second phase.
The total lives l03t in the sinking of
the Penlusular and Oriental steamer
Maloja by striking a mine off Dover
may reach 151, dispatches today re
porting that only 260 of the 411 pas
sengers and crew on board are known
to have been saved. Of the 119 pas
sengers, 55 have not been definitely
accounted for.
The sinking of the Russian steamer
Petshanga, of 1C47 tons, Is announced
today, fifteen persons on board being
saved.
Now that the Italians have evacuat
ed Durazzo their military efforts so
far as Albania is concerned will bo
confined to the vicinity of Avlona, 70
miles to the south, according to Ital
ian newspapers.
Serbians 'Thank Entente.
Paris, Feb. 27, 4 a. m (Delayed)
Crown Prince Alexander of Serbia,
accompanied by Premier Patchich is
soon to make a trip to Rome, Paris
and London to thank the entente gov
ernments for the assistance they have
rendered to Serbia, says a llavas dis
patch from Athens.
Evacuation of Durazzo.
Rome, Feb. 27. via Paris. 3:45 a.
m. (Delayed) The evacuation of the
port of Durazzo, in Albania, is said
by the Italian press to have been in
accordance with plans long prepared
as It had served its purpose as a base
for rescuing the remainder of the
Sorblan army. Italian military ol
forts on that side of the Adriatic will,
it is declared, be now directed to the
afRtninrdine' rf Avlnnn ihn nnrt whinh
lies about SO miles south of Durazzo
and which has a strategic value of
tho greatest Importance.
London, Feb. 28, 12:, 30 p m
Renter's Athens correspondent says
announcement has been made there
that, on account of England's refusal
to supply the amount of sulphate of
copper required by Greece, the gov
ernment has applied to the "United
States for the needed quantity.
New War Loan Approved.
London, Feb. 28. 12:40 p. m.
Tho finance committee of the Rus
sian duma, presided over by Premier
Sturm eir, has approved the new war
loan for two billion rubles, says
Router's Petrograd correspondent.
The Interest will bo 5 per cent The
loan will run for ten years with the
same privileges as were given In con
nection with the previous issues.
Bodies Washed Ashore.
London, Feb. 28, 1,05 p. m. The
bodies of eight sailors and the cap
tain of tho Wilson liner Dido, which
was sunk on February 26, were
washed ashoro today at Donna Hook,
Lincolnshire.
The Dido, a vessel of 4. 769 tons
gross, carried a crew of 29 men. The
first reports of her sinking said that
the captain and two of the crew had
been landed by a Belgian steamer.
SEVERE DECLINES
IN STOCK MARKET
New York, Feb. 28. Reports of
fresh complications in the interna
tional situation and the further suc
cess of the Teutonic forces in France
CRUsed severe declines In the stock
market today. Losses In standard is
sue ranged from 2 to 3 points, war
Issues lost 4 to 6 and some of the
i
moie obscure stocks were lower by 10
to 15 points.
Further unsettlcment was caused by
rumors affecting Mexico and heavy
selling of Anglo-French bonds, which
established a new low quotation at
93 5-8.
There were some material recover
ies in the final hour, tho improvement
coinciding with tho rumors that Ger
many had, agreed to modify Its sub
marine program.
no
FRENCH FAIL TO
RETAKE FORTRESS
German Advance on Verdun
Continues Steadily Is Rc-
Port From Teutonic
Battlefront.
15,000 MEN CAPTURED
Teutons Continuously Push
ing French Back in Plain
of the Woevre.
Berlin, Feb, 27, 7 p. m., via London,
Feb. 28, 2:30 p. m. Attempts by the
French to retake the fortress of Dou
aumont have not only failed, but the
German advance on Verdun continues
steadily, according to the reports from
the front. In rapid succession Louve
mont, Champneuvllle, Cote de Talon
and Hardaumont have been stormed
and the Germans, with 15,000 French
prieonors In their hands, now stand
less than five miles from the center of
Verdun.
Miles of railroad lines had to be re
paired in order to make possible tho
transportation of heavy cannon to
within range.
The French telephone linea of com
munication had to be , destroyed in
order to prevent the French artllfery
from interfering with the setting up"
of the heavy pieces.
In the plain of the Woevre the Ger
mans steadily are pushing the French
back towards their base of Cote Lor
raine oo
' BEFORE HOUSE
Navy War College President
Urges Immediate Addition
of 25,000 Men and
More Warships.
SCOUT CRAFT NEEDED
Enemy Could Strike Where It
Pleased Unless Plenty of
Speedy Scouts Are
Provided. v
Washington. Feb 2$. Tho navy
general board's conception of tho
needs of the United States as a naval
no war worft on Hi unci n ihn house
naval committee today by Rear Ad
miral Austin M Knight, president of
tho navy war college.
In formulating the policy that the
navy should equal the strongest afloat
by 1925, ho said the board had in
mind the establishment of two fleets,
one In the Pacific powerful enough to
overcome any enemy there, and the
other in tho Atlantic, where it would
be exceeded In strength only by the
British fleet. A toLil force slightly in
excess of the strength ot the British
fleet, he said, would accomplish this
purpose and Insure the country
against 99 out of 100 possibilities of
International complications.
Washington, Feb. 28. The navy is
not ready to exort more than fifty
porcout of its strength In ships and
guns, Rear Armiral Austin M. Knight,
president of the navy war college, told
the house naval commltteo today. Ho
urged the immediate addition of 25,000
enlisted men and construction of battle
cruisers and scouting crnft to meet
the situation.
American battleships, the admiral
said, are equal to any built and offic
ers and men of the floet are well
trained and efficient, but if the Atlan
tic fleet were ordered out today to de
fend the whole coast line it would be
uiuiuiu io iane all tho avallauie suips
for lack of men and would be compel
led to fight blindfolded for lack of
scouts.
Admiral Knight submitted a sketch
of possible naval movements In the
Atlantic to show that an enemy fleet
could strike virtually where It -please-ed,
unless scouting craft were provid
ed to find it. Th0 first step In the
building program this year, he said,
should be tho authorization of six
battle cruisers and eight scouts, all
with a speed of 85 knots
Training the Child Mrs. J. W. Tan
ner delivered a lecture yesterday
morning on the Bubject of "Training
,the Child." before the parents' class
of the Soventh ward.
GERMANY SENDS
INSTRUCTIONS
Bernstorff Told to Inform
United States Regarding
Future Conduct of Teu
tonic Submarines.
BRITISH VIOLATE LAW
Assurances Regarding Mer
chantmen in Direct Opposi
tion to Orders Issued
to Commanders.
Washington, Feb. 28. In a note pre
sented to Secretary Lansing today by
Count von Bernstorff, the German am
bassador, Germany assures the United
States that it has no intention of re
voking the pledges given In the Lusi
tania case.
The note says Germany can con
ceive of no reason for changing or
postponing the new instructions to
her submarine commanders to treat
as warships enemy merchant ships
armed "defensively" and that special
precautions have been taken to pre
vent ships that are not armed from
being attacked.
The note at the outset reiterated the
previous pledges, which were given on
September 1 and October 5 last year
Tor the safety of unresisting liners
and then goes on to say the German
government does not believe those as
surances have been modified by the
no' mnmnr!iTi(iiim
Liners to Be Warned.
During tho negotiations over the
Lusltanla, it says, no mention was
made of armed merchantmen and that
the United States in one of its notes
on the Lusltania mentioned unarmed
merchantmen. Attention is then ca.U
ed to the assurances privately given
in what Is stated that liners will not
bo sunk without warning, provided
they do not offer resistance. Atten
tion also is called to the statement of
the American government In its no
tice to port authorities that the pres
ence of armament on board a merch
ant vessel creates tho presumption
that the vessel Is armed for offense.
It Is stated that a submarine com
mander cannot be expected to warn
an enemy merchantman which has a
right to fire on the submarine which ,
warns It and the German government
sets up tho contention that equipment
and Intention to resist a warning given
by a submarine does not come within
tho definition of defensive armament.
Germany contends that a similar
viewpoint was taken by the United
States and that It secured assurances
from the Italian government that its
armed merchant ships leaving Ameri
can ports would not flro on submar
ines which warned them.
The note then sols torth that tho
German government did not Issue its
new Instructions to submarine com
manders until after It had come Into
possession of confidential Instructions
by the British government to tho com
manders of their merchantmen. It Is
denied that armed British merchant
ships of any description aro peaceful
traders, and It Is declared that the
armament on board all of them is to
be used especially 'for purposes of attack
The charge Is made that Austrian
submarines also have been attacked
by armed British merchantmen which
the note declares aro not conforming,
and have no Intention of conforming,
to the assurances given to the United
States by the British government in
memorandum of August 25, 1914,
by Sir Cecil Spring-Rice, tho British
ambassador The German govern
ment sas it cannot sec how the Amer
ican government, in consideration of
these facts, can regard armed British
merchantmen as peaceful trading
ships.
The note makes it clear that the
Berlin government believes Its new
instructions to submarine commanders
are in accord with the viewpoint ex
pressed by the Unitod States in its
memorandum proposing a modus Vi
vendi to the entente allies for the dis
armament of merchant ships
It declares that German submarine
commanders have been bo instructed
that they will not destroy a merchant
ship on a question of armament unless
it Is known positively that such arma
ment exists. Tho declaration that her
previous pledges will not be revoked
also is formally given. The efforts
by tho United States to have the bel
ligerents agree to a modus vlvendl
which would cause all merchant ships
to ue uisarmod, it is declared, are
welcomed by Germany.
Then follows a declaration that the
Gorman government will no longer
allow its submarines to be the object
of attacks In violation of the principles
of international law and that there
fore, the now instructions will not be
postponed or modified.
Appended to the notification which
waa Bigned by Count von Bornstorff,
was a list of about twenty Incidents
whore it is charged German and Aus
trian submarines have been attacked
by merchantmen, armed ostensibly
for detonsive purposes.
At no place In the communication
Is it suggested that American citizens'
be warned to remain off armed mer
chant ships and the question of what
f
LHEARSTESTIMON1
ON NAVY'S NEEDS
1 L?jf3T; 1
Congressman Padgett leaving naval
affairs committee meeting.
Congressman LamueL P. Padgett
of Tennessee is chairman of the
house naval affairs committee which
for several weeks lias been taking
testimony on the condition of the
naval forces of the United States
Durinc: that time Mr. Padgett and
the other membcrshave heard some
disagreeable facts "regarding the de
ficiencies of the navy.
constitutes defensive armament is not
brought up although it is admitted in
various quarters that such a question
would probably be raised.
Baron Zwiedlnek, chargo of the Aus
trian embassS', called upon Secretary
Lansing after Count von Bernstorff had
left and Informed him tliat German's
views, as set forth la the note from
Count von Bernstorff, were Identical
with those of his government and that
Austria in effect, seconded everything
contained in the German communica
tion. Secretary Lansing is understood to
have advised neither of the Teutonic
diplomats what the views of the Unit
ed States would be toward the com
munication It was understood that the note
would be brought to the attention of
President Wilson before night and
that nothing definite regarding it
would be decided until 'after It had
been submitted to the cabinet tomor
row. Washington, Feb. 28. Germany's
response to the request of the United
States for assurances regarding the
conduct of submarine warfare in tho
future is In tho hands of Count von
"Rprnstorff. thf German ambassador.
who is prepared to present It to Sec
retary Lansing The reply Is In the
form of Instructions to the ambassa
dor and will not be put into the form
of a note unless the secretary desires.
The ambassador's Instructions were
to Inform the United States that as
surances regarding the future conduct
of Teutonic submarines, given In tho
Lusltanla and Arabic cases, still are
binding, but that they apply only to
merchantmen of a peaceful character.
Germany contends that British merch
antmen, armed ostensibly for defense,
carry guns for the special purpose of
attacking German submarines and
thus show themselves not to bo peace
ful and subject to destruction. To
support tills claim the Berlin foreign
offico sends a list of a score of inci
dents where British merchant ships
have attacked submarines.
The Instructions call attention to
the claim of Germany that, despito
assurances of Great Britain that her
merchantmen armed for defense "will
never flro, unloss first fired upon, and
that they will never attack any ves
sel," British vessels are prepared and
Instructed not only to resist, but to
attack. Germany claims that her new
policy toward armed ships squares
with international law, inasmuch as
British merchantmen violate interna
tional law as jntorprcteu iy me unit
ed States. Many realize that, should
Germany sink an anned ship, upon It
will r"st the burden of proof regard
ing tbe presence of arms, but con
tends that upon the government own
ing the ship would fall tho burden of
proof rogardlng the non-armament
character of the ship.
Chances of Trouble Remote.
Tho nmbasoador A'as instructed to
call attention to the fact that Fronch
ships are not armed, that British ships
entering Amorican ports aro not arm
ed and consequently the Berlin gov
ernment considers as remote tho
chances of difficulties with tho United
States as a result of tho new policy
of sinking all armed merchant ships
beginning tomorrow midnight.
i MANY LOST WHEN I
SHIP GOES DOWN I
Only 260 Saved From Steam- H
ship Malaja With 411 M
Souls on Board. H
47 BODIES RECOVERED ' H
Fresh Sewing of German H
Mines Causing Fresh Dis- H
asters in North Sea. IH
London, Feb. 28. 10:35 a. m. Of
the total complement of 411 passen- H
gers and crew on i the Peninsula and H
Oriental lino steamship Maloja, which
struck a mine and sank within half an M
hour, two miles off Dover yesterday, M
only 2G0 are known to have been
saved. Of the total of 119 passengers IH
64 names of persons saved "have been l
received at tho steamship company'.' 'M
offices. It was stated there that it IH
is hoped that more names of persona H
saved will be received. VM
The bodies of three more Lascars
of the crew of the Maloja have been M
washed ashore, making the total of M
bodies recovered 47. Many relatives M
are arriving at Dover for thq purpose H
of endeavoring to identifythe bodies. H
Baby Rescued From Sea. M
Among those rescued yesterday was H
a baby, warmly clad, which wa3 M
found floating on Its back. The child H
was discovered by a patrol boat and H
was taken into the engine roomi After M
and seemed none the worse for the H
immersion. H
The British press is almost unani- H
mous In assuming that tbe Maloja and H
the other vessels sunk by mines dur WM
ing tho week-end were victims of a H
fresh sowing of Serman mines. "TMirs H
is much speculation as to how these 7 H
mines could have been laid. The H
i theory most frequently advanced is jH
) that a certain class of neutral ship- M
ping was employed. wMMM
The Pall Mall Gazette suggests that H
such operations may drive England to H
still more stringent supervision of M
neutral shipping than has yet been, H
exercised by the admiralty. M
Chairman Kitchener Urges H
Early Action in Reporting M
Measure to the House.
Washington. Feb 2S. A favorable H
report on the administration's bill to H
repeal the free sugar clause of the jH
tariff law, which would become oper- H
ative May 1, was authorized today by H
unanimous vote of the house ways H
and means committee. The bill will H
be brought up Thursday. H
Tho majority report reiterates that . H
the repeal of the clause Is nccessitat- H
ed by conditions duo to the war aud H
estimates the proposed saving In reve- H
nuo at $44,000,000 annually. The Re- H
publican members, while voting for H
the repeal probably. will state their H
views a minoritj' report. H
Washington, Feb. 2S. Chairman H
Kitchin, of the house wa.is and means M
committee, in reporting today the bill M
providing for repeal o tho free sugar H
cla.ise of the Underwood tariff law, H
was prepared to urge early consid- jH
oration of the measure in the house. H
The proposed legislation has already IH
been approvod as a parly measure by H
the house Democrats in caucus and H
ils passage in both houses virtually M
is assured before May 1st. jH
As the law now stands, sugar M
would go on the free list May 1st and H
it is estimated that the government H
would loso $40,000,000 in annual rcTC" H
nuo thereby. H
SITUATION AT . I
LEAOVILLE ACUTE I
Arnerican Smelting and Re- H
fining Company Employes H
Strike for Higher Wages. H
Denver, Col., Feb. 2S. The situation H
at the Leadville plant of thoAmerlciin fl
Smelting and Rofining company, where M
between 300 and 400 foreign 'employes IH
struck Saturday for a wage Increase H
and other grievances, became acuto H
again today, according to reports to H
tho Elate industrial commission. H
It was stated these emploj'es, most- , M
ly Austrians. Serbians, Bulgarians and jH
Croatiaus, had refused to return to H
work. H
The Austrian consul at Denver waa JMUMM
expected to reach Leadville today to jH
counsel a return to work and form a iH
petition of demandB to the state cbm- M
mission In compliance with the law. H
