Hundreds Drowned When British and Ru
HARRISBTJRG TELEGRAPH
r YYY\r \ T rt 4 | BY C % RRIEK <1 CKXTS A WEEK.
LA AAV— I\o. 44 single copies 2 cents.
GERM Ah S START NEW DRIVE
CLOSER TO PARIS AS FRENCH
DRA W STEEL RING A T VERDUN
Aggressive Action on Large Scale Develops in Champagne
District Which Is Within a Hundred Miles of Paris;
1,600 Yards of Trenches, 1,000 Prisoners and Many
Gnns Taken; Extend Lines North of Fortress
French Assert Poaring in of Heavy Reinforcements Has
Checked Teuton Advance at Verdun; Launch Fierce
Counter Attacks Against Fort Douaumont with Con
siderable Success; Sallies Are Repulsed With Heavy
Loss
The German offensive on the western front is assuming even
wider scope and importance. Xot only is the impetuous drive on
Ycrdun being pressed vigorously, although with less rapid progress
by the Crown Prince's armies, but aggres>i\e action on a large
scale lias developed ni the Crampagne dstrict where the Germans,
according to Berlin, have stormed and catpured nearly a mile of
French trenches.
The new momevent in the Champagne is on a front much nearer
I'aris than the scenes of the operations against Verdun, the former
front being approximately 100 miles from Paris while the Verdun j
lighting area is roughly 140 miles distant from the French capital.
North of Verdun the German lines have been extended some
w hat to the west, the loop of the Meuse around Champneuville hav
ing been cleared of the French, the l>erlin statement declares, while
there has been a slight advance southward in the neighborhood of i
Yacherauville and Bras near the river. The French, however, havel
stopped the German drive in the fort Douaumont sector. Apparently 1
the Germans still hold the fot itself but their furious attacks upon
the viallage of Douaumont nearby were failures, according to the
French war office. The German official account of the fighting in j
this region declares that the French are exhausting themselves in
fruitless attacks.
Take Many Prisouei's
Apparently there have been Ger
man gains of some importance along
ihe eastern line of the Verdun salient
leading to St. Mihiel. where the Teu
tons pushing eastward are hounding
the defenses of Manheulles, ten miles
southeast of Verdun. They have not
been able to advance beyond this
point, however, but have reached the
foot of the French' position at Cote
Lorraine at several points, Berlin an
nounced.
in 1 Heir Champagne offensive the
Germans announce the taking of the
Navarin farm on the Souain-Somme-
Py road, and positions on both sides,
totalling 1600 metres. In making this
sain they took more than 1,000 pris
oners and nine machine guns. The
Paris version of this operation re
cords it as a German surprise attack
which resulted in the occupation of
certain advanced trenches and a sup
porting trench.
The -.treat battle of Verdun, now en
tering its second week, is continuing
with unabated fury, with the German
armies driving hard at the French de
fenses along a lengthening line, which
now runs far beyond the salient in
which lies the fortress.
Paris asserts that with the pouring
in of heavy reinforcements from Gen
eral Joffre's armies the German ad
vance has been checked, but Berlin
claims a continuation of the forward
inarch on the French stronghold.
Along the Meuse, to the north of
Verdun, the Germans have been un
able to make as rapid progress as in
the initial stages of the battle, and
even on the Woevre front, where the
French at first fell back, they now
appear to be offering effective resist
ance. Pressure here- is particularly
menacing to the fortress, as the crush
ing in of this eastern line of the Ver
dun salient for any great distance
would spell disaster for the strong
hold.
I.a unci i Coun tor-Offensive
The French defensive operations at
places are taking on the nature of a
. ounter-oftensive. as in the attacks on
Fort Douaiunont. four miles north
east of Verdun. This development has
teen forecast in disDatches which told
jf the expectation in Paris that the
French, when they had fallen back to
! THE WEATHER
For llarrlahurg anil vicinity: Fair,
continued cold tonight, with Ion
<*»( temperature aliout Id detcro-si
Tuesday Increasing clouilineaa
and Mliehtlj \inrmtr.
For Kaateru Prnunvh antn: Fair
to-niKht; iundnj- IncrfaaliiK
cloudiness and aoiurnlinl niirmrt|
moderate northwest lvliiin be
i'omin( variable.
Illver
.No decided ehanxen **lll occur fa
river Ntnstea and lee conditions. i
stnsre of nboiit -I.H feet la Indi
cated (or ilarrlshuric on Tuemlaf
morning.
General Condition*
The Itlantic coast storm bus eon.
tlnueil to move alowly northeast,
mini to the North Atlantic coast.
It baa eauaril light snow In the
last twenty-four bour> from the
/ Great l.akea eastward In the l p
per obio Valley, nlth stroiiK
uortkireat winds and aralea. The
winds are atlll strons from the
northneat In the Atlantic Statea
from Xorth Carolina northward,
the highest velocity reported thi«
morning being 48 miles at >eir
York City.
Temperature are below oormnt
over the greater part of the
country. but have risen some
what la the Gulf Motes and a lew
other localities In the Heat alace
last report.
Temperatures .1 a. m.. M.
"tin: Rlaea. 6i12 a. ni.l set*.
P. nt.
Moon: \cw moon. March 3, I 0:.18
a. m.
I<l\er *ta*e! Five feet above lotv
water mark.
Yesterday's Weather
lite best temperntare, UT.
I.owest temperature. !tl.
Mean temperature. 24.
.Normal tempviutlire, 'jj.
liositions they believed they could hold
indefinitely, would drive back over the
ground that had been yielded in the
face of terrific German artillery and
infantry attacks.
Tide of Battle Turns
According to a statement by Aris
tide Briand, the French premier, this 1
happened after the fourth day of the
battle. The French brought up strong
reinforcements at an unexpected mo
ment and the Infantry, sweeping down
upon the Germans, who already were
suffering heavily from the effects of
the French artillery fire, stopped them
short and even drove them back. The
premier declares the French have now
regained tlie advantage, the beginning
of their counter-attacks marking the
turning point of the battle, which is
now in its second phase.
German Accounts Differ
The German accounts fail to agree
with this French version of the light
ing. Berlin having announced further
advances lor the crown prince's troops,
including the taking of Hardaumont,
east of Fort Douauinont. and the vil
lage of Champneuville. on the German
[Continued on Page «.]
01' Simon Chism of
Courthouse Fame Goes
to Poorhouse at Last
Obdurate, even defiant, for years
at all the kindly efforts of county and
city officials to procure him a com
fortable home at the Dauphin county
almshouse. Ol' Simon Chism, the
white-head negro with the demeanor
of the bearer of the title role in Airs.
Stowe's slave story, yielded Saturday
to the persuasive influence of a county
poor doctor and trolleyed and
tramped over the hills to the poor
house.
"Simon." as he was familiarly
known to the scores of lawyers, court
attaches, heads and clerks of the de
partments. put in a more or less tot
tering existence day after day in the
courthouse corridors or in the Pro
thonotary's office. A small pension
and the change purses of lawyers and
department heads and clerks helped
Simon keep body and soul together.
He often boasted of being an ex-slave.
Minister Killed on Way
to Conference When Trolley
Strikes His Automobile
Allentown, Pa.. Feb. 28. —As the
result of a grade crossing accident at
Brick Tavern, several miles south of
Quakertown at 9:30 this morning, the
Rev. \V. M. Ettinger. pastor of the
Methodist Episcopal Church, Quaker
town. died in the local hospital at 2
p m. to-day as the result of a frac
tured skull.
His companion. Harvey Brunner. a
Lansdale businessman, is so severely
injured that he too may die. The
men were on their way to Bethlehem
by automobile to attend a conference
of churchmen when their machine
was struck and demolished by a
Philadelphia limited trolley car.
County Commissioners
to Confer on Mothers'
Pension Plan Wednesday
Dauphin county's Board of Commis
sioners and County Solicitor Phil S.
Moyer will confer Wednesday after
noon at 3 o'clock with Miss Helen
Glenn, State superintendent of the
Mothers' Assistance Fund and the
mothers' pension committee of tho
Eur t End Republican Club.
The Commissioners to-day were in
vited by John Hopper, chairman of ihe
East End Club commUt *e to meet fur
the conference. Information on the
sn'i'ect will be available and upon
Ihe results of the r'onVrrnee ill
likely bo determined the <|ues'ion of
vl.f-tlu-r the pensio ■ p:.in v.'-H be
adapted lor Dauphin covin!J,
HARRISBURG, PA., MONDAY EVENING, FEBRUARY 28, 1916
THE GERMAN CROWN PRINCE \
v. >
' : |jMHr~ir-iirfT .?
GZ&MAH PR.INC.Z..
The German Crown Prince, who is In charge of the bier drive on Verdun,
did so In direct detiance to the wishes of General Von Hindenburg, who did
not think the rapture of the fortress would be adequate compensation for the
consequent loss of life. Had the young and impetuous Prince listened to the
consulings of the war-scarred veteran his forces would not to-day be facing
defeat.
COURT HEARS OF
FIRST AND LAST j
CALL TO THIRSTY
Allison Hill's Only Bar Subject
of Dauphin License Judge's
Inquiry
The "first" and the "last" calls to
the thirsty of Allison Hill had the ear
of Dauphin county's judges to-day at
the session of 1016 liquor license
court.
The sign o' the "first ami last." as
it is locally termed is a hotel con
ducted at 110S Market street by David ■
C Mingle. He wants the privilege to
sell during the ensuing year although
remonstrances have been filed against'
his establishment it* the combined
[Continued on Page B.]
Admiral Claims U. S. Does
Not Have Half Enough Men
Even For Present Navy
Washington, Feb. 28.—The navy is
not ready to exert more than fifty per:
rent, of its strength in ships and guns. I
Rear Admiral Austin M.Knight, presi
dent of the Navy War ('olleae. to-day,
told the House Naval committee. He
urged the immediate addition of 20.-
000 enlisted men and construction of
battle cruisers and scouting craft to j
meet the situation.
American battleships the admiral
said are equal to any built and officers j
and men of the fleet are well trained
and efficient, but if the Atlantic fleet
were ordered out to-day to defend
the whole coast line it would be un- |
able to take all its available ships for i
lack of men and would be compelled 1
to fight blindfolded for lack of i
scouts.
Admiral Knight submitted a sketch I
of possible naval movements in the;
Atlantic to show that an enemy fleet;
could strike virtually where it pleased 1
unless scouting craft was provided to
find it. The first step in the building i
program this year, he said, should be j
the authorization of six battle cruisers j
and eight scouts, all with a speed of i
35 knots. I
THAW PEN BROOK WATER PIPES
FOR HOURS; WEREN'T FROZEN
Some Wise Soul Called Up Water Works and Found the •
Trouble Was At Hummelstown
Hurry calls were sent, to this city ]
by the score for plumbers from Pen- !
brook this morning; dozens of irate:
householders grunted and snorted as
they themselves tried with hot water
and torch to thaw out frozen water
pipes; housewives stood arms akimbo
and growled because there was never
a bit of water for the Monday morning
washing; little Johnnie and Mabel
grinned sheepishly but appreciatively
as they hustled off to school face un
washed. h
After everybody had struggled for 1
hours 1 o thaw out the some ;
bright mind suggested calling up the:
supply works at Iluianielstown. It was
learned the supply puuip was frozen :
TAKE FIRST STEP
IN CHOOSING NEW
BISHOP OF H'B'G
Archbishop Prendergast Pre
side Over Secret Session
at Cathedral
Archbishop Edmond F. Prendergast,
of Philadelphia, presided over a coun
cil of diocesan eonsultors and irre
movable rectors of the Harrisburg
Catholic diocese this afternoon. The
meeting was at 2 o'clock at
St. Patrick's Cathedral, .State street. It
is the first step toward the selection of
j a successor to the late Bishop John \V.
[Continued on Page 6.]
Motorcyclist's Victim
Demands $5,000 Damages
Suit for So,ooo against Frank G.
Felkenberger, a motorcyclist, was be-
this morning by Mrs. Ilarman and
her son Clyde for injuries the latter
received I.nbor Day, 1915, when Fel
kenberger rode down the youthful
' Garman.
The Garnians live at Paxtang, where
the accident occurred. Clyde was
standing along the road, it is alleged
by ex-Recorder O. G. Wickersham,
who filed the trespass suit, when Fel
, kenberger, approaching on the wrong
side of tlx' road, ran into the boy and
; knocked him down.
TO PI,AN ENCAMPMENT
A joint meeting of committees from
Posts 58. 116 and 520 Grand Army of
I the Republic, will be held Friday
i evening in the rooms of Post 58, to
1 start plans for the tlftieth annual en
icampment of the Grand Army of the
i State to be held in this city in June.
STIM. NO ITRKIICG ARREST
Although the Harrisburg police
; have one man in Jail whom they
think may know something about the
Incendiary tires, no charge of arson
: lias been brought against him, and no
other arrests in connection with the
I series of incendiary tires, have been
I made by city detectives.
tight in one of the coldest gales of the
winter.
Hummelstown, Pa.. Feb. 28.—L,ast
night the water main here hurst and
all water is rut off from the town.
This cut off the electric light about
8 o'clock when the churches were In
the middle of evening services and
ail meetings had to be stopped be
cause of the darkness. The only peo
ple in the town who have any water
arr. those few who have wells and cis
terns The shoe factory had to close
and also the puhlir gvhools were dis
missed after calling the roll, because
furnai-e tires must We banked to con
serve the water in the boilers.
CONFERENCE RAPS
SUNDAY BUSINESS,
SPORTS, PAPERS,;
' AND EXCURSIONS
United Evangelical Preachers
Urged to Fight Sabbath
Desecration in Report of
Special Committee Headed
by Lancaster Minister; to
Preach -Special Sermons
STRICTER OBSERVANCE
OF LORD'S DAY PLEA
Trustees of Albright College
Named; Session Officers
Elected; Expect Appoint
ments For Districts This
Evening; Ministers Or
dained ; Orders Granted
Profaning of flip Sabbath by "fol-
I lowing the ordinary pursuits of busi- j
news or labor or by godless and sinful j
holiday diversions" was condemned in 1
j no uncertain language before the East i
Pennsylvania Conference of the United
j Evangelical Church tills morning in a
report of a committee headed by the
Rev. J. P. Gross, of Lancaster.
The report urges the ministers of j
the conference to "do all within their
power to suppress tendencies which
may lead to Sabbath profanation, such 1
as the holdir.g open for business their
I shops or stores; patronizing of Sunday :
excursions; countenancing of Sunday'
newspapers in tiie homes of our mem- !
: bers; the indulgence in or the encour
! aging of Sunday sports; and all other
! practices which may effect the highest
i ideal of Sabbath observance."
The committee also urged upon the
summer eampmeetings a more strict
observance of the Lord's Day. It is 1
recommended in the report that every ,
minister of the conference set aside a
special Sunday for a sernton on the
sac redness of the Sabbath.
Much of the business of the confer
ence this morning was taken up with
; the election of routine officers. The
election of the following trustees for
! Albright College, at Myerstown, was
II announced: The Rev. A. M. Sampsel,,
[Continued of Page !>]
Would Stop Great War by
Paying SI,OOO to Deserters;
More if They Steal Ships
! New York. Feb. 28.—Charles Lo
i max Delbridge, of St. Louis, who says
.i he is the "author of the Delbridge
' i series of mathematical books and cal
f I culators, comprising more than 80
, volumes," is publishing a pamphlet
containing directions by himself for
national defense without the necessity
' of preparedness in armaments and
men. In their places he would have
a national fund sufficient for bribing
, invading soldiers to desert and be
come peaceful United States citizens.
The heading of Delbridge's "war
stopper" of six printed pages reads:
' ; "One thousand dollars reward to
■ every enemy soldier deserting, sur
■ rendering or being taken prisoner: also
,I to purchase at reasonable price all
' j equipment or supplies, not excepting
' I battleships, submarines, aeroplanes,
: cannon, etc., they might contrive to
bring, would render warfare between
L nations utterly impossible."
Council Confers OQ
New Date For Taking
. Over of "Hardscrabble"
At a brief conference this afternoon
• j with City Solicitor D. S. Seitz, the
[ : City Commissioners discussed the
1 ! Gross resolution pertaining to the
r jtime fixed for the vacation by "Hard-
J ! scrabble" property, owners of their
homes preparatory' to the razing of
; these structures by the city.
? The Commissioners, it is understood,
? wanted to get together on the ques
; tion before acting upon it. finally on
• the floor of Council. The Gross meas
'r ure authorised the City Solicitor to
• file bonds incident to the taking over
' of the property and fixed May 1 as
j the time limit for vacating the prop
erties.
The Commissioners also considered
I the specifications for the bids on the
city treasury audit.
Fox Goes Before Grand
Jury in Brewers' Probe,
With Desired Records
?
By Associated Press
i j Pittsburgh, Pa., Feb. 28.—Hugh F.
, Fox, of New York, secretary of the
, ] United States Brewers' Association,
' who last week was released from jail
|on a writ of habeas corpus pending
{conclusion of the contempt of court
proceedings through his failure to
i testify before the Federal grand jury
investigating alleged political activ
ities of brewery interests, went before
I the grand jury to-day.
J j He carried a valise said to contain
| the records desired by the jury.
Other witnesses waiting to be called
i included Charles F. Ettla, of Phila
. Idelphla. secretary of the Pennsylvania
i P.rewers' Association: Miss Catherine
I Gallagher, stenographer in Ettla's
j office, and J. P. Mulvihill, vice-presi
!dent of the Independent Brewing
■ | Company of Pittsburgh.
t Plan to Have Laborers
1 Appear in Evening Clothes
at Their Social Affairs
Wooster. Mass.. Feb. 28.—A move
■ ment to have union workmen appear
• at their social affairs in evening
clothes has been started by the mould
■ ers' organization. In connection with
plans for its annual concert, to be held
i this week, the Union has sent out
word that male attendants should
formal evening clothes. l
HUNDREDS DIE
WHEN BIG ALLIED
; STEAMSHIPS HIT
GERMAN MINES
P. and 0. Liner Maloja and
Rescuing Ship Destroyed
Within Sight of Dover;
Explosion Rocks City;
Freshly Sown Teutonic
Mines Cause of Disaster
SCORES OF BODIES
ARE WASHED ASHORE
Warmly Clad Baby Found
Floating on Its Back in
Heavy Sea; Smiles at Res
cuers and Seems None the
Worse For Immersion;
Bingit, Petshenga Sunk
R.v Associated Press
London, Feb. 28.—Two big British '
: and a Russian steamship were sunk
yesterday in the Straits of Dover or I
i waters with the loss of hun- 1
dreds of lives as the result of striking
freshly-sown German mines.
Of the total complement of 411 pas- j
scngers and crew on the Peninsular!
j and Oriental Lino steamship Maloja, \
which struck a mine and sank within ,
half an hour two miles off Dover yes- i
terday, only 260 are known to have
been saved. Of the total 119 pas
| (tensers, 0 4 names of persons saved
, have been received at the steamship
company's offices, ft was stated there
that It is hoped that more names of
persons saved will still be received.
Forty-seven Washed Ashore
The bodies ol' three more Lascars
of the crew of the Alaloja have been
[Continued on Page 5.]
FATHER-IN-LAW SIIOOTS COP
By .-Issocigtcd Fress
Scranton, Pa., Feb. 28. Daniel j
Bell, an Old Forge policeman was shot |
and killed by John Zota, his father-!
in-law. The shooting is said to have j
, resulted during a quarrel between the
! men over some domestic troubles.
t STKiJV.NU MINJbKS WILL. KKSUME WORK <
Lykens, Pa., Feb. 28.—Twelve hundred members of the
United Mine Workers of America, employed at the Short
Mountain Colliery, who hare been on strike for some time,
held a ri«33 meeting here this morning and decided to re
* turn to • k. William Stuppy, the loader boss for whom
they ent en strike, has secured work at another colliery.
I The question of "surface topping" of cars was postponed
for future consideration. The time of esuming work is
I now up to the colliery officials.
; GRANT FINK BREWING LICENSE
I Harrisburg. Without comment the Dauphin county
; court this afternoon granted the application of the Fink
, Brewing Company for a license for 1916. The granting of
; the Fink license is the first action by tre court in the license
| matters.
. Harrisburg. Miss Mary E. Shaneman, appointed
! anaesthetist at Harrisburg Hospital to succeed Miss Edith
E. Yingst, resigned, by Board of Governors at meeting this
I ,
I afternoon. .
I
I
b ATTEMPTED TO STEAL $1,000,000
New York, Feb. 28. lt became known here to-day
that : _ .rin;, attempt to steal a sum estimated at $1,000,000,
j consigned to New York banks, had been made on Saturday
[ morning by burglars who broke into a United States mail
van while it was on a ferry in transit from the Jersey Cen
| tral Railroad. •
; CAPT. HALBERSTADT CONFERS ON COAL LANDS
® Harrisburg. —Captain Bayard Halberstadt, Pottsville,
a well-known mining engineer conferred this afternoon with
the County Commissioners relative to inspection of the
coal lands in the upper end of the county for the board.
B STANDARD.SHARES TAKE DROP
| New York, Feb. 28.—Reports of fresh complications in
the international situation and the further success of the
j Teutonic forces in France caused severe declines in the
[ stock market to-day. Losses in standard shares ranged
i from 2 to 3 points, war issues lost 4 to 6 and some of the
s more obscure stocks were lower by 10 to IS points.
I
MARRIAGE LICENSES
llonnlo Mofln and Camel Hclmont, Meelton.
(■ftjiiln Berta ami Mxactr Saho. WlUlantMtow a.
C. Stolireffler, mixahttbUllc, and >laa«le I. Ilrunn, Ljkca*
(ton nnhlp.
14 PAGES CITY EDITION
SUBMARINE WAR
TO BE CONTINUED
GERMANY INSISTS
IN LATEST REPLY
Count Von Bernstorff in Note
to Secretary Lansing As
sures United States That
His Country Has No Inten
tion of Revoking Pledges
in Lusitania Case
WILL NOT CHANGE
RECENT INSTRUCTIONS
U-Boat Commanders Order
ed to Treat as Warships
Enemy Merchantships
Armed "Defensely"; Plan
Special Precautions Not to
Attack Unarmed Vessels
By Associated Press
Washington, D. C., Feb. 28. —1n a
I note presented to Secretary Lansing
i to-day by Count von Bernstorff, the
German ambassador, Germany assures
the United States that it has no inten
> tion of revoking the pledges given in
; the Lusitania case.
The note says Germany can conceive
of no reason for changing or postpon
ing the new instructions to her sub
marine commanders to treat as war
ships enemy merchant ships armed
"defensively" and that special pro
i cautions have been taken to prevent.
' .ships that are not armed from bcins
attacked.
Baron Zvviedenik. charge of the
[Continued on Va«c B.]
WAR OUDKR PLANT FIRCI)
By Associated Press
Pittsburgh. Pa.. Feb. 28. Fire
i which broke out in the plant of Ilub
i bard & Company, shovel manufac
j ers at an early hour this morning did
i $125,000 damage. The company has
been filling war orders. The origin
of the fire is not known.
