THE BARME DAILY TIME
VOL. XIX-NO. 295.
JUKHK, VKHMOXT. .MONDAY, 1'KIJlUJAltV '.'8, ioi(n
rjucK. oxrc ckxt.
-i
s
FRENCH RETURN
HARD SMASHES
AT GERMANS
Heavy Reinforcements for
Joffre's Armies Seem to Be
Holding Up the Great Ger
man Drive at Verdun, Al
though Berlin Claims Con
tinuation of the Advance
.UNABATED FURY
ON WHOLE LINE
Along the Meuse, the Prog'
ress of the Attackers Has
Slowed Up Considerably,
and Even in the Woevre
" District the French Are
Offering Effective Resist
ance
The great battle of Verdun, now enter
ing lti second week, is continuing with
unabated fury, with the German armies
driving hard at the French defenses along
the lengthening line which now runs far
beyond the salient in which lies the fort
ress. Paris asserts that with the pour
ing in of a Jieavy reinforcement for Gen
eral Joffre's armies, the German advance
has been checked, but Berlin claims a
continuation of the forward march on the
French stronghold.
Along the Meuse, to the north of Ver
dun, the Germans have been unable to
make as rapid progress as in the initial
stages of the battle and even on the
Woevre front, where the French fell
back, they now appear to be offering ef
fective resistance. The French defensive
operations at the same places are taking
on the nature of a counter-offensive, as
in the attacks on Fort Douaumont, four
miles northeast of Verdun.
Paris, Feb. 28. German troops by a
surprise attack have been successful in
entering certain advanced French trenches
near Navarin Farm in the Champagne
district, according to the French official
statement this afternoon.
In the region north of Verdun, the bom
bardment continued with intensity, par
ticularly in the central sector and on the
French right. The German forces yes
terday evening made several attempts to
capture the village of Douaumont. Their
efforts were broken by the resistance of
the French troops, who withstood most
furious assaults. The situation at the
fort of Douaumont is without change;
the fort remains closely encircled.
In the Woevre district, the Germans
yesterday and last night assumed greater
activity. The railroad station at Eix,
after having changed hands several times,
finally remains in the possession of the
French. All efforts of the Germans
against hill No. 355, near Eix, were with
out result. The German attack against
the French positions at Manheulles re
sulted in complete failure, the French
artillery replying with energy to the
bombardment of the Germans along the
entire front.
lows Falls, Vt. Four men were In the
caboose of the forward train, but all ex
cept Cullmano escaped injury.
FILLING WAR ORDERS;
HAVE $125,000 FIRE
Hubbard & Co, Shovel Manufacturers of
Pittsburg, Damaged To-day and the
Cause of Fire is Not Known.
rifUburg, Pa., Feb. 28. A fire in the
plant of Hubbard 4 Co., shovel manufac
hirers, to-day, did $I25,(X0 damage. The
company wns filling war orders. The
cause of the fire is unknown.
SERIOUS FIRE AT HOLYOKE.
A Three-story Building Becomes a Total
Loss.
Ilolyoke, Mass., Feb. 28 A three-alarm
lire at 7:05 last night called the acpari
ment to a bad fire in tlio three-story
block at 75 Main street, owned aud oc
oupied by the C. F. Sullivan company,
numbers and steamnttera. mo. me
was under irood headway when discovered
and the Mock, and stock was practically
destroyed.
The street floor was occupied by a
store and the two other floors were used
as a workshop and storeroom. The firm
estimated the stock at $18,000 last even
ing, and the block was valued at $12,-
OOO. Fire walla prevented the fire from
extending to the blocks eaeh side, but
considerable smoke penetrated to the Ho
tel Lawler and one man was brought
down from the upper floor by Lieut. Man
ning of the fire department.
CONCORD STATION DAMAGED.
Several Offices and Rooms Were Burned
Out To-day.
Concord, X. H., Feb. 28. Fire to day
did several tlioiiNand dollars' damage to
the Boston A Maine railroad station. It
started in a brakenian's locker in the
baggage room, burned through the mail
room and several offices on the second
floor, including that of President ben
jamin A. Kimball of the Concord 4. Mon
treal railroad.
1151 DROWNED
WHEN STEAMER
STRUCK MINE
The Ship Maloja Went Down
Two Miles off Dover, Eng
land, Shortly After Start
ing Out on Trip, and Res
cuing Vessel Met a Similar
Fate
MILITARY COMPANY
FORMED AT CODDARI)
GREAT EXPLOSION
MADE VESSEL SHUDDER
Prow Was Turned Toward
the Shore, but Engines Be
came Unmanageable
Most of Dead Passengers
Were Officers of the Brit
ish Army
TWO BURNED TO DEATH.
Because of Overheated Stove in Store at
East Millinocket, Me.
East Millinocket, Me.. Feb. 28. Two
men were burned to death while sleep
ing in a provision store of Dorainize
Moscone earlv this morning. The fire
is believed to have been due to an over
heated stove.
CANAL BLOCKED BV WRECK.
GERMAN GAINS NOT OF
GREAT IMPORTANCE
Berlin War Office Asserts That German
Troops Have Made Progress North
of Verdun.
V Berlin, by wireless, Feb. 28. Although
urther advance has been made by the
Germans north of Verdun, no changes of
great importance are revealed by the war
office statement to-day.
Schooner with Coal Went Down in Cape
Cod Cut.
New Bedford, Ma.. Feb. 28. The
two-masted schooner Helen G. King of
Boston, ltfaded with coal, sunk yesterday
in the Cape Cod canal about a mile west
of jtourndale and until the craft is raised
the canal is likely to be out of eomrnis
sion.
The schooner, which was bound east
ward, became unmanageable on account
of an accident to her steering gear and
ran on the rocks on the north side of the
canal, going down in a short time. She
lies diagonally across the ditch, with
only her stern out of the water. The
crew of four got off without difficulty.
BRITISH LINER EXTENDED.
In Order to Allow French Troops to Go
to Verdun's Defense
Ottawa, Ont., Feb. 28. British lines in
Belgium and France are being extend
ed to replace French troops who are be
ing rushed to the Verdun region to take
part in the fight "which has settled
down to a terrific slaughter," according
to advices received here from the battle
front. Approximately 20 army divisions
have been thrown into the battle by the
Germans while the French troops number
15 divisions, cable messages said.
London, Feb. 28. Of a total of 411
passengers and crew on the Peninsular
and Oriental line steamship Maloja,
hich struck a mine and sank two miles
off Dover yesterday only 2iM) are known
to have been saved. One hundred and
nineteen pattsengcrs were aboard the
steamer, of whom only 64 appear among
the list of names of those saved. At
the company's office, however, it was
stated that it is hoped more nameg of
persons saved will still bo received.
Among those rescued yesterday was a
baby, which was found floating on its
back bv a patrol boat. The baby was
taken into the engineroom and after be
ing warmed smiled at its rescuers ap
parently none the worse for the iuimer-
Seminary Boys Are Enthusiastic Over
New Department To Be Conducted
By Norwich University
Man.
Military training will begin at Uoddard
seminary late to day in carnowt. In com
mon with a number of preparatory
school in New Kngland, the question of
school training in the manual of arms
has been under consideration at the sent
inary for several weeks, but Ooddard is
the first school in this section to adopt a
fixed program of iiihtruction. Thus far
more than 30 boys have volunteered to
receive the instruction and whilo the
service is not compiiMory, it is expected
that a company of 50 will lie organized
within a few days. '
Prin. O. K. Ifollister stated to-dav that
instruction fa to be given by staff officers
from Norwich university. The govern
ing uniforms and arms, and for the time
Iieing there will lie a drill each week.
With the advent of warmer weather, the
students will have their training out of
doors and drills will be ield oftener than
once each week. Those who have enlist
ed In the company are enthusiastic over
the prospects of receiving real military
training. The companv is registered as
a part of the organized battalion at Nor
wich, where every member belongs to the
Vermont National Guard. Thus it fol
lows that Goddard'a company is virtually
enlisted as a reserve for the first Ver
mont regiment.
1 he seminary gymnasium is to be used
as a drill hall. Verv few of the students
who have registered are at all familiar
with the rudiments of military training
and so at the outset the drill master will
concern himself principally with funda
GERMANY WILL
NOT POSTPONE
ATTACK ORDER
Notifies United States That
Merchant Ships Armed
"Defensively" Will Be At
tacked by Submarines Aft
er Feb.' 29, According to
Instructions
QUINCV CUTTERS
HAVE NOT AGREED
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS
ABOUT UNARMED SHIPS
Count Von Bernstorff Pre
sented Note from Berlin
To-day to Secretary of
State Lansing Austria's
Stand Is Identical with
That of Germany
mentals in the manual.
NEW CHURCri OPENED.
Methodist Structure it St. Johnsbury
"PRODDED HIM" TOO HARD.
GERMANS DECLARE
BIG DAMAGE DONE
Report That Their Bombs Destroyed Five
British Factories and Three War
ships During. Zeppelin Raid
Jan. 31.
Berlin, via wireless, .Feb. 28. -On the
occasion of the last Zeppelin raid over
Kngland on dan. 31 two government fac
tories and two ammunition factories at
Birmingham and one ammunition factory
near Bradford were destroyed by bombs,
the Overseas news agenry asserts. The
agency also says the British cruiser Caro
line and the destroyers Kden and Nish
were sunk. The Caroline, it is ih-clared.
sank in six minutes. "I member of the
crew Wing killed, injured and 47
drowned.
A Berlin dispatch on Feb. 10 said that
the three warships mentioned had been
link during a Zeppelin raid but this was
denied by the British government, which
Knife Went Thrice Into John McLaugh-
, lin'a Body.
Rutland, Feb. 28. John McLaughlin,
aged 25 years, a lumberjack, living in the
town of Rutland, is at the Rutland hos
pital in great danger . of having blood
poisoning or of dving from shock due to
loss of blood. Salvin Rich of Mendon,
aged 70 years, a survivor of the 5th Ver
mont infantry, is at the Rutland county
jail on a serious charge and Harvey Ran
ger of Mendon is held as a state witness
ag the result of a stabbing affray during
a drunken row early Saturday morning
at tle home of Rich, who lives alone sir
miles east of Rutland. Rich has admit
ted cutting McLaughlin' three times with
a big hunting knife and the doctors have
found three incisions ranging from one
and a half to four and a half inches in
length on the man's back between the
hips and the shoulder blades
State's Attorney C. V. roulin and Dep
uty Sheriff Henry R. Adams were roused
out of bed at 3 o'clock Saturday morn
ing by neighbors of Rich who heard of
I the affair. Taking assistants they hur
ried to Mendon ami found McLaughlin
lying on the floor at Rich's borne. t The
floor and his clothing were eoered with
blood and he wa4 so weak that he faint
ed when the tried to move him. Rich,
who told of the affair as best he could in
his intoxicated condition, submitted to
arre-t without making any trouble. The
blood stained hunting knife with which
he assaulted MI.aughlin was found by
th oftii-cr.
The Maloja left Tilbury only Saturday
for Bombay with mails, 119 passengers
of all classes aboard and a crew number
ing about 250, most of thera Lascars.
Other passengers were to join the whip
at Marseilles.
The steamer had just passed Admiral
ty pier at Dover, and was opposite
Shakespeare cliff, when an explosion
shook her from end to end. She listed
immediately to port. High seas were run
ning, and the captain realizing that great
damage had been done to the after part
of the vessel, tried to run her ashore, but
the engine room was swamped and the
ship became unmanagable.
Ihe plight of the vessel was observed
and dozens of craft went at full speed
to her rescue. One of them, the British
tanker Empress of Fort William, of 2.-
181 tons, struck another mine and sank
nearby.
Aboard the Maloja everything possible
was done to get the passengers and crew
off. AH the boats had already been
swung out before she struck, as a pre
caution against accident, and all those
aboard 'bad sufficient time to put on life
belts.' ..
Boat after boat and a number of rafts
were sent away, but several persons
leaped into the water and were picked
up by the surrounding craft. It was at
first thought that all had been saved,
but later bodies were washed ashore and
their number was gradually added to
during the day.
Owing to the fact that Dover is under
Btrict military law it was possible to ob-!
tain only meagre details from those res
cued. The captain said that both passen
gers and crew behaved spendidly. .
The passengers were for the most part
British officials in the Indian service, the
most prominent being Judge Oldfield of
the Indian high court.
Only one of the crew of the Fmpress
of Fort William was drowned.
t'p to midnight the bodies landed from
the Maloja included eighteen men, eleven
women and four children, in addition to
eleven Lascars. Among the dead is Mrs.
McLeod, wife of General McLeod.
St. Johnsbury, Feb. 2?. -The new Grace
Methodist church was Opened yesterday.
hundreds of parishioners worshiping in
the handsome new edifice.
It replaces the one burned a year ago
last January and when completed will
be one of the finest and best equipped
church homes in ermont.
The building is tiOslgn, of New Hamp
shire granite, with trimmings of Hard
wick granite, and the interior is finished
in oak. The church and furnishings,
including the large pipe organ, wul repre
sent a cost of $80,(MX). The church is
being built by the Gumming Construe
tion company of Ware, Mass. Work was
begun last June, the corner stone laid
Sept. 18. It is expected now that the
building will be completed in May. and
that the dedication will take place May
14, with Bishop Hamilton presiding and
assisted by former pastors of the church.
The impressive services yesterday were
conducted by the pasW, Rev. George A.
Martin, and were lieuTm' the assembly
room, the auditorium not b-ing completed.
Since the church was burned, the serv
ices have been held in the Colonial the
atre. Many generous gifts have made
the new Grace church possible. The
beautiful memorial windows are all gifts.
The main window at the front of the
church is being made by Tiffany of New
York. This is to be 2xri feet and will
be placed in the building in September,
The building committee is composed
of the pastor, A. L. Bailey, R. Q. Ham
ilton, S. D. Atwood, and Calvin L
Clark.
RUSSIAN STEAMSHIP
ANOTHER VICTIM
Fifteen Aboard the Petshenga Were Saved
The Petshenga Was Formerly
a German Boat, But Was Cap
tured by Russians.
London. F"eb. 28. The Russian steam
ship Petshenga has been sunk. Fifteen
of those on board were saved. The Pet
shenga was formerly the German steam
ship F.rik Iarsen, which was captured by
the Russians early in the war.
MAIL STEAMER LOST.
Mecklenburg Struck a Mine Passengers
Were Saved.
Flushing. Holland, via Ixuulon, Feb. 2.
RAILROAD MEN ATTENDED
Together with Eagles, the Funeral of
William M. Grant.
Railroad men and members of Barre
aerie. Fraternal Order of Kagles, as well
as many friends who are not affiliated
with the Eagles or railroad brotherhood,
paid marked tribute to one of their num
ber Sunday afternoon, when funeral serv
ices for William M. Grant, for several
years Central Vermont yard master, who
died Friday, were held in the Perry A
Noonan mortuary chapel on Depot square
at 2 o'clock. Rev. Edgar Crossland, pas
tor of the First Presbyterian church, was
the officiating clergyman and e follow
ing men acted as bearers: Joseph Gray
and James Kelly, representing the Barre
& Chelsea railroad trainmen, Harold
Tierney and Charles Muldoon of , the Cen
tral V ermont railroad, and William Mur
ray and Charles Trentini, who represent
ed the Eagles. The Eagle services were
read at the chapel and at the vault. A
delegation of nearly "II men, including a
large number of railroad employes, act
ed as an escort while the remains were
being removed to Elm wood, where they
are to repose in the receiving vault until
spring, when interment will lie made In
Hope cemetery. Delegations of railroad
men from St. Albans and White River
Junction were in the escort.
Among the tributes in a profuse floral
offering were the following: Wreath of
mixed flowers, brotherhood of railroad
trainmen. Xo. 535; anchor of mixed flow-
era, employes of the Montpelier & Wells
River ami the Barre A Chelsea railroads:
wreath of mixed flowers. Eagles: carna
tions and hyacinths. Mr. and Mrs. E. Cam
pagnari and family: carnations. I,eclair
ft McNulty; carnations. Mr. and Mrs.
Tasper Bizorero; hyacinths, L. O. Mor-
Washington, 1). C- Feb. 28. In a note
presented to Secretary of State Lansing
to-day by Count Von Bernstorff, Germany
assured the tinted States that it has no
intention of revoking the pledges given
in the Lusitania case. The note says
that derma ny can conceive of no reason
for charging or iKistnoning the new in
structions to submarine commanders to
treat as warships the enemy merchant
men armed "defensively" and that ape
cial precautions have' been taken to pre
vent ships not armed being attacked.
Baron Zwiedenik, charge of the Aus
trian embassy, had an engagement to
confer with Secretary Lansimr later
.austria s position to lo announced is
identical with Germany's.
The instructions direct the German am
bassador particularly to tell Secretary
Lansing that British merchantmen,
armed ostensibly only for defense, have
not assumed the character of peaceful
traders, but that on the contrary they
carry guns for the especial purpose of
attacking German submarines, io sup
port this claim the Berlin foreign office
nas sent the ambassador for presentation
to the state department, a list of at least
20 incidents where it is claimed British
merchant ships have attacked subma
rines.
Confidential advices received from Ber
lin state tliat German and Austrian sub
marine commanders already have been
given their new orders and that from
midnight Tuesday they will be author
ized, to sink without warn all armed mer
chant ships of the enemies of Germany.
Jt was said also that many of the
submarine commanders probably had left
their baaes on voyages and that even
should the United States request the
postponing of the opening of the cam
paign it would be impossible to get word
to msny of the submarines. It was
stated, however, thst no other nation
had asked a postponement. Count Berns
torff and other officials of the German
embassy declined to discuss the instrue
tions from Berlin.
AH the Other Unions Connected with
Quincy Granite Industry Have Come
t an Understanding with
Manufacturers.
Quilicy, Mass., Feb. SS. Final settle
ment of the dispute between the granite
workers of (Juincy ami the manufac
turers uu-r hours and wages now do-
peinls 011 the. outcome of conference !-
tween the manufacturers and the cutters
who have nut yet come to an agree
ment. All tho other branches of the in
dustry have come to an agreement ex
cept the cutters, ami the time for which
the agreements of the other branches
will run depends on the terms made by
the cutters.
Tho quarry men, polishers and engi
neers reached a settlement several weeks
ago, and the blacksmiths and sharpeners
came to an understanding Saturduy. I n
less the new price agreements are settled
for all the workers in the granite indus
try by March 1 a general strike may be
called in (Juiiny.
I omiuittees irom the granite cutters
union and the manufacturers' associa
tion met Saturday, ami although no de
cision had been reached after a long ses
sion, it was said that progress had been
made. The committees will meet again
Monday night.
GET SUPREME
COURT ACTION
To Determine Qualifications
for Voting on State
Refercndums
BR00KFIELD TEST
CASE WAS GUED
- .A
Court Was F edly Called
in Time Decide for
Sr'. Election
DEATH OF W, E. CARROLL.
Former Barre Young Man Died at Kear-
. ny.N.J.
A telegram received here Sunday an
nounced the death of William E. Carroll,
formerly of Barre, which occurred at the
home of his mother, Mrs. Elizabeth Car
roll, in Kearny, X, J., Saturday evening
at 8:45 o'clock, the end following an ill
ness of a month. Besides his mother.
Mr. Carroll is survived by his wife, who
was Miss Bertha Thornton of Montpelier,
and one son, Howard Carroll. He also
leaves six sisters, Misses Alice, Esther,
Helen, Adcle, Bernice and Gladvs Car
roll. The remains will be brought to Barre,
the funeral party leaving Xcw York
In order to determine the qualifications
for voters on the two state referendiims.
the prohibition law and the primary law.
at tho spring election March 7, a test
case has been hurriedly brought and was
argued before the Vermont supremo court
at Montpelier this afternoon. It is ex
pected that a decision will be announced
very soon so that the tangles enured by
the interpretations of the various boards
of civil authority in cities and towns
will be straightened out in time to pre
pare check lists for the election.
The test case is brought in the name of
Thomas W. Martin of Brooklield against
C. R. Fullaiu, A. 1). Reed, A. II. Bigelow
ami others of the Brooklield board of
civil authority to compel that board to
insert his name on the cheek list of the
town so that he may vote at the coining
March meeting on the two referendiims
above referred to. .Martin was refused
the right to have bis name on the Brook-
field list. Once the case was started, it
was promptly railroaded along the su- .
preme court, an application having been
made to supreme court that a special
m my over tne venuu er- a dale ag T1)p li(.atjon
, in the evening at 7 o dock, j ted amJ th ' ,
.1 be take,, to the home of jto lm.t ,t uOIlt elilT this afternoon at
s o clock
The cast! of Martin was handled by
Lieutenant-Governor Hale K. Darling,
while Attorney John X. Harvey of Barre
argued in behalf of the Hisit'un tuken
by the board of civil authority.
SEPARATED 15 YEARS.
n 1 - a 1 i l
luesuay morning at ( uf that court be held on a a early
rivini? in this eitv over the ( entrul er- j- . .. .. ." l"'v
mont railroad
The body w
Miss Flora Murphy, 17 Forsythe place.
Funeral services will lie held in St. Mon
ica's church Wednesday morning at !':'!')
o'clock, the parish priet. Rev. P. M. Mr-
Kenna, officiating. Interment will be
made in the Catholic cemetery on Beck-
lev street. Mrs. Elizabeth Carroll' and
the deceased's wife and child, and his
sister, Miss Alice Carroll, will accompany
the remains to Barre.
Mr. Carroll was born in Barre Sept. 2-!i.
18!'3. He attended the eitv schools and
for a time, after the death of his fa
ther, William J. Carroll, lie was associ
ated with his mother in the granite bus
iness on Granite street. lor two vears
he was engaged as steward in the Vin-
tia club. Latterly he had been living
in Montpelier, where he was married two
years ago. One month ago he. went, with
lua family, to Kearny.,
DIED IN DENVER.
John Vercoe, Jr, Had Been 111 for a Long
Time.
LADIES OF BUCIIAN
WERE IN CHARGE
Of Annual Observance of Fasten's Een
Held at Clan Gordon Hall Saturday
Evening A Banquet Was a
Feature.
Buchan folks held their annual observ
ance of fasten's een in Clan Gordon hall
Saturday evening with a very represcn
tative attendance of Glenugie club mem
bers and their wives. Merrymaking be
gan with the banquet at 7:30 o'clock and
continued until midnight, the affair being
in charge of the ladies, ow ing to the fact
that thH fasten's een occurred in a leap
year. Much that is explanatory in an
interesting way is contributed by a mem
ber of the club in giving an account of
the observance.
Bannock night, or fasten's een, is an
institution that is almost lost in the
mists of antiquity. It is certainly a rel
ic of pre-refornmtion times in Scotland
and there are comparatively few Scots
men in Barre who are familiar with its
significance. But members of the Glen
ugie club endeavor each year to celebrate
it as they were accustomed to do in their
own district. Every year since they be
gan to observe the festival has shown an
improvement over previous years. Sat
urday's) bannork night coming in leap
vear, the club handed the management
over to the ladies of the club and need
less to say all previous observances were
completely erlipsed.
1 he bill of fare included such items as
bannocks and treacle, cheese and oat
Tidings reached Barre by telegraph
yesterday of the death of John Vercoe,
jr., which occurred in Denver, Col., w hith
er he went for the Iwnefit of his health
some months ago. Mr. Vercoe's demise
occurred Saturday and the remains will
be brought to Barre. funeral services
will be held in Barre, although arrange
ments have not been wholly completed.
The direct cause of the young man's
death was pneumonia. Although he was
a sufferer from the effects of tuberculo
sis. More recent dispatches had indicat
ed that Mr. Vercoe's condition was im
proving and news of his death came un
expectedly. lie is survived by his father, John Ver
coe of Barre, and he also leaves four sis
ters. Mrs. C. E. Traev and Miss Florence
Vi.njm r f llun-n u ml fru T 1 Vli,i a ,1 .1 '
Miss Dorcas Vercoe of Lowell, Mass.
The deceased was a native of Barre and
had he lived until April 2!) he would have
reached his 21st birthday. He attended
the city schools and was enrolled in the
commercial course at Spaulding high
school when he abandoned his studies.
Thereafter he was employed for two
years in Montpelier, going to California
early in 1015. Three months afterward
he went to Denver. Mr."' Vercoe was a
vnung man of fine qualities and a wide
circle of friends in Barre is left to mourn
his passing. He was an adherent of the
Methodist church.
Mother and Two Children Are About To
Be Reunited.
After nearly 1.1 years' separation, dur
ing which there was no communication
between the mother and her two children. '
Miss Ixmise Brown of Williamstown and
her brother, Harold Brown of Alburg,
and their mother, .Mrs. Alice Brott-n
Grant of Ellenburg Depot, X. Y., are
about to be reunited at the last-named
place. Miss Brown left Barre this morn
ing for Alburg, where she w ill meet her
brother, and they will then proceed 'to
Ellenburg Depot.
Xearly 10 years ago the woman placed
the two very young children in the War,
ner home at St. Albans and said she
would return for them in three weeks.
The officials of the home were never able
to l.xate her. Six years ago the girl was
placed in the home of O. B. Wood of
Georgia, now of Williamstown. and she
has made her home there until a year
ago, when she went away to work. The
latter has just received a letter from her
brother, enclosing a letter from their
mother, and this is the agency to bring
about their reunion.
WILL COME TO BARRE.
CAME FROM SCOTLAND.
Rev. Bert J. Lehigh of Oswego, N. Y, to
Send Formal Acceptance Soori.
At the morning services in the First.
Baptist church Sunday, the acting pas
tor, Rev. Dr. Paini. read a communication
from Rev. Bert J. Lehigh of Oswego, X.
Y., in which the candidate for the local
pastorate intimated that his resignation
from the Oswego pulpit would lie read
yesterday. Immediately upon its accept
ance, the letter went on, Rev. Mr. Le
high would mail his acceptance of the
Barre call. A favorable response to the
call extended by the First Baptist church
several weeks ago moans that the church
will not lie long without a resident pas
tor. Rev. Mr. Lehigh has indicated that
he will be ready to assume his duties in
Barre late in March.
Last week the First Baptist church
closed a transaction for the purchase of
the residence of John L. Wallace on
Franklin street. The honuo i tn lt nun,l
Robert Gray Died Saturday After Illness !!lfi a permanent parsonage and will be
of One Week. occupied by the family of ! Rev. Mr. Lc-
Roliert Gray passed awav at the home j
of his daughter. Mrs. .lames Slora of!
Cutler corner, Saturday after an illness
WAS ILL A YEAR
The mail steamer Mecklenburg of the gan; carnations, Mr. and Mrs. T. Gabel-
eeland line ran on a mine w hile on a
oyage from Tilbury to Flushing. The
vessel was lost.
Officials of the line state that the pas
sengers and crew and the mails were
According to Rich's storv. McLaughlin saved,
and Ranger were in Rutland Friday night The passengers, orew and mails of the
and they bought a quart of sl-ohol which j Mecklenburg were taken off by the Hol
they took to Rich's house. The trio 1 land-American liner Westerdijk.
hey
drank freely and about midnight Ranger
went to .!. A little later. Rich said
stated that neither the Caroline nor any , ,ie tri, , t MrUnghlin to retire too.
other British warship nor any merchant
ihip was struck by bombs.
I but the younger man was obstinate ami
they got into an argument and the war
veteran "prodded him." After McLaugh
lin bad sunk to the floor, nearly uncon
scious from bum of blood. Rich awakened
Ranger and said that he "hurt 'Mac
more than he meant to." Ranger went
for assistance.
Rich lias been a resident of Mendon
many yrs and is a tii lister. His
jm-r wit, ti- viaixi Jill v m
Concord, conductor of one of the tr n. 'the March term of owinty court. He will
and tied up traffic at this point for fouritwt hae a irelimmrT bearing unt I the
ONE MAN KILLED
la Crash Between Freigbt Trains, One
Bound for Bellows Falls.
Westminster, Ma Feb. 2'. A rear
ed rollision between two freight trains
-ud tlie da4h of Daniel CuBinsne of
The Zeoland service has born
tisionally suspended.
pro-
The Mecklenburg wss 2.. tons giws
and was built at i.lrow in 10iS.
ifc was 343 feet long.
loni; carnations. Misses Josephine and
Angie Rirr.i: carnations. Ermani Rirr.i;
carnations. Miss Alba Kizi ; carnation.
Miss Annie Fontana.
who is a resident of Aberdeen,
Slora. with whom lie had n-ided for the
past year, Mrs. dames Alexander and
Mrs. Peter Gordon of Barre, and two
cakes, an unlimited supply of good cheer sns. William tiray of this city, and Rob-
f,.r !, I,, 11 IJ o,..l o 'II. Iil)
the women
the management of Mrs. tlubb, im
such old-time numlcrs as Petrnnalia and
"Strip the Willow.' which made the old-
timers get a movement on which thev
of less than a week. Death was duei ,. "
to an attack of bronchitis, which wa!Geor8e Mathicu Died in Montpelier To
followed by paralysis. Besides his wife
he is survived by three daughters, Mrs,
Scot land.
I he dance nriftrram nniT,r !
. r- : 1 1 i
lelllde,!!'" .?" '" '"
day of Consumption.
George Mathieu of Montpelier died this
morning at his homo, Ewing street, in
that city, alter a year's illness with con
sumption. He was lorn in Montpelier
40 years ago. the son of Mr. ami Mrs.
.losciih Mathieu. He leave his fattier.
.Miss .lane i, ray, a MMer, lives i,,;,. , ,. ..i.. .. . ,
brothers. Ihe luiicnil arrangement
have not been completed.
CHILD FEARFULLY BURNED.
Fell Into Pail of Hot Water on Kitchen
Floor.
BURNING SHIP ABANDONED.
Joseph (nn. jr.. son of Mr. and Mrs.
Joseph Cano of M Granite street, is at
the ( ity hospital suffering from fearful
The burns which were inflicted when be fell
inti a mop pail of hot water Sunday
afternoon. Hie little fellow is 2rt months
idd and was learning to walk. Mrs. l inn
All tbe Members of the Crew Are Re
ported Saved.
Iondon. Feb. 2. The British steam
ship Suevier from Xw Vork Fh. II for
Havre has been abandoned afire at .
-cording to a di-pet.ti to l.h'vd's fmm
hours Teterdn v. A trmi of cars from 1 result of Mclaughlin's vonn-is ran be i lniltrahulL Ireland. A!) the members
Tlnstoti for Et I V r!V t 3 humpe-l determined. J. C. Jon- of this city
fey a. Uata bouiid front IkUa for 11- defend Ufa.
had thought lost the-e many years. To
ward 12 o'clock, under the gentle per
suasion of the unmarried and widowed!
I Mr. (iray was lsirn in Alierdeeii duly '
.11. IM7. As a young man he learned!
the ship carpenter's trade, a vocation
which he followed until he came to J
America with his wife in Sept em 1st. j
!I4. His marriage to .lessie Craigetil ' e regular rehearsal of the .Montpe-
TALK OF THE TOWN
i-,i;.. ,.f i,. ,.ll. l,- ., ! , itook ids.-.' in S-otlaud 4i vears ago Inst, her ( horal society will be held I uesday
ladies of the club, the male member . i ,, !, ,. ... ., ,...i i., :.. ,i. i. n .
ST C VI Vl . - T ',H"r,n;J'! the fall of I-.I4. Mr. and Mr-. Gray re- llut.la.r.1 library inted of the Montpe.
.nc ...,., .,,,,,.. ,v was, . ... ... . . . j ... . , ,.,,., , ,, ,,
to Culler corner to make their home. it.. ' account of the tiicmeu's )-h in the city
the discovery of the habv partially im
merged in the water. Dr. M. I Chandler
was railed and the buy was hurried to
the h-pUl. Tbe b, V of the body and
voted the best liannock night the club!
I -. I l.. .... I Tk. .... -. . - (
IMF ftri txirinitir'i. lie C Oil 111 1 1 rp W R , ,. . .- ... , . . r ! i . II I. . .hi, 1.
i ii m , 'was an 8'1 lereni 01 m- i n-uiinuin ,iiii "ii mr -'in.
composed of Mrs. Mrs. Adams, Mrs. i , i i i n o ... i
... ,', ,, , ,, ' 'church. - A letter rwncil bv Militant Slewatd.
( bibb. Mrs. McHardv. Mrs. Murray. Mr I -
. ... ., Funeral serv n-rs will be held at the a Mount street man. trom his mother,
lowieand .Mrs, l.auld. ,me of Mr. IVt.-r Gordon. n,1 N..r,li who is H resident oi Ureat Yarmouth.
... . . , , Seminal v street. Tuesday alt. moon at 2 l"ng. :tls an illiiininslTna sidelight on
Actions in Probate Court. vio.k. ' R.-v. Kdsar rx-sland. pa.fr -me of the plu.-s ,.i the Furor n war
In proliate court today William K. ' of the First Presbyterian church, wj!I that ar Uihl' brought tii.iiie to the folk
Turney of Middlesex made his annual Is- the ollniat ing clergy man. and int r- in the ti'I.t litti.' t-ic hi t lie i.njswi
settlement a trustee of a trust fund i men will ! mad.- in lic metci r. ,of the li-t Z.;-lin tad. s,.w.ri, jr-
of Samuel X. Turner, t Men lr of the family re-pust that on were killed bv IcwIh n landed
.wiG.in four hundred yards of Mr-, stew -jari's
home. Two of Mr-, steward's
are at the front, one of tii-ni brirg a
;l!i-t,tr Of the ni,il.T,l -',-. A thltl
.'n. w iio is ap f'a huii. his 4."t'i bitte.
iav. ei"st in I"' iii"l to the ,nh.S
1 t-r , Ml,'. I i-.' is C,"
l.'t i ,a-s n. t c etr I
J-
left the nail on the floor for a few mo
ment while she stepied into an adioin-icrested bv the wi
ing room, t ries from the kitchen led to'late of Puvbury; and lioorge Williams of I (towers Is omitted.
Berlin was apointe administrator of!
the estate of I. Hen .1. William. At the K. of V. club ro'in. on North
Main street tomorrow eTiirj: Barre
W. F jppn. a well known Fa-t is-un. il will cM-Main the nietnts-r o"
shoulders were liai'v . ld-d and otheriBarre nun. id through the eitv ' M-rt wli-r i 'in, , I, t t.n,n l it the
burn about the t.iv inf en-tlie,! t he ' tenia T hile on Io. w ay to Mount lete- f'lS of a .?.,- of .. liirraiiier.', in . in Ma. as t'e i
iU of the crewr are rpoitej to have been h:id sofferirc. Tlx- Cno have on rns. Mich., where be i to remain cvcral u 'hif an ! p. I. hi- t ti-- cum ,1s are ' 2 i" n oi li
Ukeo off by another s'.caaKr, other child, a bbe of three months. week for tbe I-1) f.t id I ia L-aH u j-laj in this wirf r. it cf !
