A
M til Ml dm a ji'fff- fi
v
FULL LEASED
WIRE DISPATCHES
$$$!:):
CIRCULATION IS
OVER 4000 DAILY
Vsp
THIRTY-EIGHTH YEAR
SALEM, OREGON, MONDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1916
TTTrri rmvn PrVTQ ON TRAINS AND NEW
JrlvlLri TWO L.HN la stands fty? trnt
BLOODIES! BAM IN
French Claim German Drive Is Checked Trainloads of
Wounded Tell of Terrific Struggle 30,000 Wounded
Dying In Rain and Snow and Beyond ReacWof Com-
' rades Some Regiments on Both Sides Afiilated--
Germans Say Verdun Must
' London, Feb. 28 Checked at Verdun by Frenc 'en
forcements, the German crown prince's drive is spn 'ing
to the Champagne, 40 miles west of the Verdun wooi
The Berlin official statement today virtually confirmed
the French claims that the Verdun offensive is halted
temporarily at least. At the same time, Berlin reported
the capture of over 1600 yards of trenches and the
Navarin farm, the scene of desperate conflict in last Sep
tember's offensive. Efficient artillery preparation pre
ceded this assault, indicating that the big Teuton howit
zers battered the Champagne defenses as they did the
French lines at the beginning of the Verdun drive. More
than 1,000 prisoners were taken by the Germans.
Paris admitted the Champagne loss, attributing it to
a "surprise" attack.
For the first time since the opening of the Verdun
campaign, though, Berlin claimed no important gains in
that region. The Meuse "peninsula,'' a strip of land five
miles from Verdun, said Berlin, has been cleared of the
French, who have exhausted themselves in their efforts
against Douaumont and Hardaumont. The Germans
claimed to have nroeressed further in the direction of
Vacherauville and Bras, four miles north of Verdun, and
to have gained the foot of Cote Lorraine in the Woevre.
Before Bras can be taken, the Teutons must storm the
Pepper Heights. Berlin mentioned no fighting there.
As for Douaumont, Pans reported the. repulse of at
tacks, while Berlin said the French had worn themselves
out there.
Attacks northwest of Fresnes have been repulsed,
Paris declared.
Paris, Feb. 28. The Verdun woods
may go down in history as the world's
bloodiest battlefield.
Trainloads of wounded, shattered
men are reporting here, giving evidence
of fearful carnage north of Verdun.
Other trains are steaming eastward
with reinforcements and ammunitions
to fill the gaps made by the German of
fensive. "There must be .",0,000 wounded men
dying in awful agony in the rain and
snow, simply because their comrades
ninnot reach them," said a surgeon to
day. "Tiie percentage of dead will exceed
that of the Champagne offensive last
September because in this battle there
is no lull, and no chance to withdraw
the wounded under fire."
Thousuuds of dead and wounded men
lay in the open on the plain north of
Pepper Heights, under n hurricane of
tdiells. Other thousands are among the
.stumps of Ca.ures forest, the wounded
in n living death, the dead left to rot.
while the killing continues. On the
plain north of Douaumont, the slaughter
is frightful.
Surgeons reported that some regi
ments on both sides had almost disap
peared, so awful is the battling. All
nuree that never before has there been
known a cannonade comparable to that
ly the Germans.
Though the tragedy of Verdun is
written on the faces of the Parisian
men and women, they are nevertheless
w
Aba Martin
ft
Tli' free list has leen suspended for
th' cumin' vreddin' o' Mi Plump
I'.nh an' Oscar Oscar Bud. Who remem
bers when only th' leadin naloon
l.ccper wore a diamond?
n p
UUu
Fall
cheered bv the latest advices indicating
that the French left holds the Pepper
Heights while the center and right are
counter attacking from the ruins of
Douaumont.
Officers assert that the French have
accumulated so strong a reserve for
such nn offensive as this, that the Gcr'
man losses soon will be so great that
the offensive must halt from sheer ex
haustion. Attack Is Only Prelude.
London, Feb. 28. With all his re
sources, the kaiser is striking for an im
mediate, overwhelming victory, intend
ed to end the war.
The past week's battling for the
fortress of Verdun is but the prelude
to a grand assault along the western
front the most tremendous offensive
i the world has ever seen.
j Simultaneously with the land opera
tions, the German submarine campaign
against armed ships is due to start at
I midnight Tuesday. Prince Henry of
: Prussia, has taken over a high navy
I command preliminary to this.
London is tense. She awaits news
that the German fleet is coming out
into the North sea or that Zeppelins
. are approaching.
"Tt is the real thing at last," said
I the Times critic todnv.
I While Europe and the world are on
'edge, perhaps the greatest artillery and
' infantry battle ever known rages over
i the ruins of Douaumont, not far from
j Verdun. The position has chnnged hands
I repeatedly during the past few days.
Two miles west of Douaumont, the
French are projecting the flame of ar
tillerv across the Talu ridge and the an-
' proach to the "Pepper Heights," bar
ring the advance to crdun. Austro
German guns are shooting tons of ex
plosives into the armored slopes of the
Pepper position in an attempt to blast
the ridge awav, thus opening the road
through Bras to Verdun.
Say Verdun Must Tall.
Berlin, Feb. 28. 'l he foil of Verdun,
pirsnihly within a fortnight, was pre
dicted by military critics here today.
They pointed out that no fortress i
since the war started has withstood a
German attack once a breach was made
in the outer defenses.
"Douaumont was in ruins Thursday,
the dny before the Brandenburg forces
stormed it." said the Vnssiche Zeitung
correspondent today. "Four of our
heavy shots hit the bull's eye of Douau
mont and explosions in the interior fol
lowed. "A second fort nearby blew up just
as did Fort I.onciii at Liege, the result
of a single large calibre shell crashing
into an ammunition magazine.
'iOur artillery opened a murderoues
fire on the morning of the 21st. Thanks
to the splendid activity of our fliers,
the aeroplanes of the enemy were un
able to observe our extensive prepara
tions. Our fire raged with increasing
fury until late afternoon, enrolling
trenches and tearing entanglements to
(Continued on Page Five.)
McARTHUR INDORSES
CHAMBERLAIN BILL
Washington, Feb. 28. Repre
sentative McArthur, of Oregon,
today endorsed the Ferris-Chamberlain
biU dealing with the
California-Oregon land eases.
"The proposition to sell tim
ber lands worth $10,000 to .$20,
000 a quarter section for $2.50
an aere is ridiculous, " he told
the house public lands commit
tee. "The proceeds should go
to the school and road funds."
Representative Wilson with
drew his bill, which Chairman
Ferris had denounced as "load
ed." HE SAW TOO MUCH
Portland, Ore., Feb. 2.8 Vladivostok
was far as I'etroff Burachenko, 20, got
when he set out to join the. grand
duke's army in the Caucasus. Today lie
is back in Portland and wants to take
out citizenship papers immediately.
Sight of all the war preparations at the
Siberian port chilled his blood, he said.
E
M. D. Bousman Kills Mr. and
Mrs. L. B. Akers Near
Wilderville
Grants Tass, Ore., Feb. 28. M. D.
Bousman was formally charged today
with murdering Mr. mid Mrs. L. B. Ak
ers near Wilderville, 10 miles from
Grants Pass.
Arrested by .Sheriff Smith late yes
terday, Bousman admitted that ho lii.
by the roadside and shot Akers and hi.,
wife when they passed by on their win-
to Sunday school. Their two I,
also were shot and killed.
Bollsmnn. nirpd ti.'l vnnrq liml ri,,u,-i.,.t.
ed with Akers his neighbor nvcr n honn.
dary fence. Because he uttered threats
uguuisi .AKers, cousman received a let
ter from the district attorney warning
him to ston auarrellinr with hi ,.;,,!,.
bor.
Akers frequently preached at the
Wilderville church. .At 10 o'clock Sun
dnv moniinc he wn Hiivincr in w;i,i,.
ville with Mrs. Akers when Bousman
tired from the brush, killing one of
Alter 's horses.
A second shot killed Mrs. Akers. By
this time Akers probably had recog
nized their assailant. A bullet wounded
him, but he leaped from the wagon ami,
without a weapon, attempted to fight.
"The next thing I knew," said Bous
man at the county jail in terror n( a
mob, "my riflo was empty and they
were all dead, even the horses."
The bodies were found late yesterday
when officers went to arrest Bousmnii.
They found him in his cabin. He
fered no resistance. He had attempted
to end his own life by drinking laud
anum, but it only made him sick.
To Discuss Rural Credit
at Men's Liberal Club
Rural credit is one of the growing
questions before the American people.
A number of measures are now being
drawn up to be presented to the next
legislature. In order that the people
may have a full knowledge of the im
portance of this movement the Men '.
Liberal club has invited the Hon. V; '
H. Dufur of Portland, father of the
Uufur bill, to discuss rural credits at r
public meeting. Mr. Percy A. Cupper,
also the f ramer nf n riirnt nrmlit., Ki I
to bo presented to tin IIP Y t IntlVJi nfiira
will also speak at the same meeting.
s me question is or Reciiil import
ance to our farmers and fruit-growers,
the grange and tho agricultural d
partment of the Salem Commercial eln"
are urged to get behind the movement
and make tho meeting a success.
This will bo a public mooting and Is
ies are invited to be present. Remember
tho dnte and place of meeting. Wednes
day. March 1, at the Unitarian church.
7:4.1 o'clock.
Prices Drop On Receipt
of Germany's Memorandum
(Copyright Jfllfi by the Xcw York
.Evening Post.)
New York, e7 28. On reports of
German successes in tho Verdun drive,
stock market prices at the opening to
day fell from one-half to 1 point. A
regular recovory followed, however,
seemingly in response to dispatches
contradicting the earlier claims.
While the trading was swinging back
and forth, news of Germany's memor
andum with its seeming refusal to post
pone its new submarine campaign was
published. Naturally this caused prices
to I rcak again in the afternoon's de
cline was sharp and general.
Bodies Wash Ashore.
London, Feb. 28. The bodies of the
captain and eight sailors of the Wilson
liner, Dido, sunk early Saturday, were
washed up today on the Lincolnshire
coast.
The Dido was a -1,800 ton steamer.
LIMA IS
mihe iti in
171 ARE DROWNED
Steamer Empress Going to
Her Aid Also Strikes Mine
and Goes Down
FIVE OTHERS HIT MINES
WITHIN LAST TWO DAYS
Bodies of 12 Women and Six
Children In Morgue One
Baby Floats Safely
London, Feb. 28. That the Penin
sular and Oriental liner Maloja carried
120 persons, including 110 passengers
and that only 200 had been saved when
she was mined off Dover yesterday was
the revised report of the company to
day. Its statement, however, expressed
the hope that further rescues would he
made. Previous figures indicated 40!'
aboard, with 55 passengers and 9(i crew
lost. The new figures indicate that 171,
instead of 151 per'ished.
The Russian liner Petshenga wis
sunk today, the seventh victim of mines
in two days. Fifteen of her crew were
landed.
Other destroyed ships were: the Bri
tish liner Kmpresi, of Fort William,
mined in going to the Maloja 's rescue;
the British vessel.-, liirgit, and Suevier;
the French - vessc; Trignac, and the
Dutch steamer Me -kclenburg. .
The bodies of 12 women and six child
ren victims of the Maloji explosion lay
today in the Dover morgue. Several
survivors were dying of exposure.
Meanwhile an investigation was un
der way to determine how the vessel
was mined. The ship sank within view
of Dover. A heavy explosion turned
the vessel keel up and she sank within
a short time. For the most put good
order was maintained.
Forty seven dead have been identifi
ed at the Dover morgue.
It is possible the Maloja struck one
of the mines the Germans are known to
have sown off the Thames channel bv
Genn.in ships operating under neutral
flags. The Holland-American liner
Kvndaui is reliably reported to have
struck one ot tnesn recently. The Ma
lo.ia was a 12,4.11 ton liner, and was the
sister ship oi' the destroyed liner Persia.
A bnbv girl, wr.ipped in blankets and
unharmed, was picked up an hour litter
the -Maloja sank.
Siskiyou Mountains
Still Impassable for
Automobile Tourists
The state highway department has
received information from employes on
the Siskiyou mountain work that it is
still impossible for automobiles to get
through over the mountains. Two cars
last week from Portland got as far as
Siskiyou and found it necessary to turn
back. It will probably be 10 or 15 days,
if the weather continues favorable, be
fore it will be possible to get over the
mountains.
The weather has been exceptionally
favorable there, and a crew has been
set to dragging the road as far as thr
Htatiou at Siskiyou, and it m expected
that it will be put in excellent condition
for the season's traffic. There have
been no serious slides and the grade has
settled materially during the winter
season.
Medical Students Still
On Strike Over Frog
Portland, Ore., Feb. 28. Freshmen at
the University of Oregon mediealcollegc
today still refused to attend the classes
of Dr. John D. MacLaren. Further
more, tho entire student body has en
dorsed the freshman "strike."
The class declared a boycott nr1
MacLaren Friday. MacLaren had re
fused to apologize for comparing the
gray matter of Archibald N. McDonald,
a student, to that of the frog which the
cIbms was studying.
McDonald in a grantintc of Whitman
college and a married man. Trouble
had heen brewing between MacLaren
and the students for months.
Bloodhounds Lose Scent
of Fleeing Murderer
San Jose, Cal.. Feb. 28. The chief
hope of the police of capturing th'
murderer of George X. Jones, College
Park banker, lies todnv in the fault
that the slnver who stabbed himself in
'the arm when he attacked Jones, nil'
be compelled by infection or loss of
blood to seek medical ntd.
The bloodhonnds, after trailing th"
slayer across the marshes into Alnmcdn
county by the scent left on the top of
tules in water two feet deep, lost the
trail completely.
EUGENE TO MARSHFIELD
BY APRIL 15 SAYS SCOTT
Portland, Ore., Feb. 28. Rail
road service between Kugenc
and Marshfield will be an ac
tual fact before April 15, said
John M. Scott, general passen
ger agent. of the Southern Pa
cific, returning today from un
inspection trip.
A bridge across the Umpqua
river is not yet constructed, but
until it is built, passengers and
baggage will be ferried across.
CITIZENSHIP IS RESTORED
Governor Withycombe has granted re
storation to citizenship of Ed Hender
son and Duke MeCurdy, who in April,
101,1, were tried in Washington county
for a statutory offense and sentenced
to serve from three to 20 years in the
penitentiary but who were paroled from
the bench at the time sentence was pro
nounced, by Judge J. IT. Campbell.
i lti.ensiup was restored at the re
quest of Judge Campbell, District At
torney E. B. Hongue and numerous rest
dents of Washington countv.
I
John M. Eshleman Expires
Suddenly at Indio This
Morning
Sacramento, Cal., Feb 28. John M.
Eshleman, lieutenant governor of t'ali
forni.i died this morning at 5:;10 at
Indio, Cal. The first news was receiv
ed at the governors office at the
capitol.
Kshlcninn died in tha Southern paci
fic club house in the town of Indio. His
death was due to tuberculosis.
Eshleman left San Francisco Friday
night for his home in Imperial, Cal. He
was taken ill en route and stopped off
at Indio.
Eshelnian was born in Villa Ridge,
111., June 14, 18711 the son of William
J. and Rachel Elizabeth (Kelly) Eshel
nian. " .
He was graduated from the Univers
ity of California with the degree of A.
B. in 1002, and received the M. A. de
gree tho following ye.ir.
He married Miss Elizabeth Lcdgett
of Oakland in lOOti.
Eshelnian early took an interest in
political questions, and after being ad
mitted to the state bar in 1005, ran for
tho legislature and w.is elected in 1007.
For tiirce years, from 1007 to 1010, he
served as district attorney of Imperial
county,
Eshelnian 's most recent place of
residence was in Los Angeles. He al
so had a home in El Cenrto and was eu
route there when stricken with his last
ilness. The lieutenant governor ha-.l
been in ill health for a number of years.
In 19115 he removed temporarily to
Arizonia and returned to California in
an apparently improved condition. He
presided at the special session of the
legislature this year ind said he was
feeling better than in sonic years.
Died All Alone.
Indio, Cal., Feb. 28. Lieutenant Gov
ernor John M. Eshleman died nlonc in
his room at the Southern Pacific hotc.
here shortly after 5:.i0 o'clock this
morning.
Death was duo to a hemorrhage which
followed a severe coughing -spell.
Just before he died, Eshelman called
for help. His feeble cry was heard by
Manager Craig, of the hotel, lint tin
end came before Crnig renched the lieu
tenant governor's bed chamber.
Eshleman wan en route to El Centre
He was taken ill on the train, and de
cided to stop over night at the hotel,
intending to resume ills journey in the
morning.
The body was taken in charge by
members of the Masonic lodge. Statt
Senator Thompson Is coming to Indio
to make funeral arrangements.
Johnson's Fine Tribute.
Sacramento, Cal., Feb. 28. Governor
Johnson was visibly affected hy the
news- of Eshleman 's death. Eshleman
was always referred to by tho gover
nor as "Jack."
In a statement th governor said:
".rack's death is tile worst blow and
saddest blow the state has ever had. I
am. broken hearted. I love 'Jack Eslile
mnn as I have cared for few men. I was
hoping and planning that he might be
my successor as governor." He was
braver than all thn rest of us. God
gavo us health and strength to work
and fight with. Jack had neither, but
h worked and fougtit better than any
of us, and always at his elbow, was the
grim spectre.
"This state is so close to what Jack
Eshleman has done thnt its colloiwal im
portance may not now bo wholly ap
preciated; but the generations of hr.
children and his children's children,
with pride, gratefully and reverently
will point to the lasting achievements
of the master mind in (.alifornia's lib
erntion from the commercial tyranny of
transportation companies, and John M.
Eshleman as the ycurs pass, will grow
bigger and greater, just as wo who love
him have ever seen and known him.
"There is iust one man like Jink
Eshleman in each generation and his
lass Is irreparable."
(Continued on Tags Two
WILSON'S FII STAND
MAY CLEAR SITUATION
President's Declaration "I Have No Choice In Honor But Ta
Take the Position I Have Strikes HomeGerman Of
ficials However Think Secret Orders Issued by England,
for Merchantmen to Attack Submarines, Found On Shi?
Wcodfield May Change Position
By Carl W. Ackerman,
United Press Staff Correspondent.
Berlin, Feb. 28. Germany will not torpedo passenger
liners without warning even after Tuesday, when her
warfare against armed merchantmen becomes effective,
the United Press was reliably informed today. Germany
will endanger human lives only in case a steamer at
tempts to escape, to fire on a submarine or to ram it. :
The difference between the past and the future sub
marine warfare will be that:
Armed ships will not be considered legitimate peaceful
trading vessels. -
Commanders will not torpedo every ship encountered,
trusting later that they may prove them vessels armed
for offense.
Commanders will not violate previous instructions to
warn passenger liners before sinking them.
Germany is not courting trouble with America, but if
a future accident endangers Americans, Germany will
consider she is not responsible, inasmuch as she has
warned Americans and the American government of
ficially. Officials and the American colony read with surprise
President Wilson's letter to Senator Stone. Leaders were
astounded that the' armed ship controversy had been
linked by the president with a question of America's na
tional honor.
As the hour of the new' campaign approaches, the
question of a possible diplomatic break is receiving more
consideration, as both officials and the public believe
America's attitude in the pending negotiations is un
friendly. The above is the first indication that Germany does
not intend to torpedo liners, even if armed and it indi
cates she intends to fulfill her pledges in the Arabic case.
There is almost a contradiction, however, in the state
ment that she will not consider armed ships "legitimate,
peaceful trading" vessels. This may mean she insists that
armed vessels must be regarded as warships and it might
prevent embarrassment should an overzealous submarine
commander sink an armed liner.
Wnaliimrtnn. Feb. 28. Oermnnv's rc-
itemtion of intent to torpedo armed
Merchanlmen beginning Wednesdny
was handed (Secretary or mate i.nns
ing today by German Ambassador Von
Hornstortr.
Lansing's only announcement was
Vfin Ri-riistorff left his
government's memorandum. That is all
I can say."
The German envoy was equally , un
communicative.
Later, however, it was learned the
mnnifiiNinilnni fill tnincd the rc.mirt of
submarine commanders on a score of
cawe-s, in which it was alleged Hritish
merchantmen used tneir armament of
fensively. It also gave further refer
ences to alleged secret Hritish admir
alty orders to destroy submarines.
the original copy of the alleged copy,
found on the sci.ed liner Appam, was
recently given to Lansing by Von
Bernstorff.
The Austrian charge d' affairoB visit
ed the secretary after Von Bernstorff
and declared Austria's viows wero iden
tical with Germany's.
Tho house and senate Kept nanus on
in tho situation.
England's Secret Orders.
Washington. Feb. 28. England 's al
leged orders to merchantmen to attack
submarines, as claimed by Germany,
..emf.fl tnHiiv trt offer thn Inst hone for
n satisfactory adjustment of tho Ger
man-American neauiocu. n mesa or
ders are proved to exist, tho American
position toward Germany may be some
what altered. .
Ambassador Von Bernstorff 's in
structions from Berlin, however, offer
ed no npparent hnsis for a snttlomenti
The Gorman envoy hail nn appointment
with Secretary of State Lansing short
ly before noon. Austrian Charge d 'Af
faires Zwiedinek conferred with Lnns-i
ing soon after Bernstorff left, suying
Austria's views are tho -same as Ger
many's. He left no memorandum, how
ever. Though the state department heads
expect no postponement of this decree,
they were gratified that Germany, in
her instructions, has recognized thnt
the I.usitania settlement is involved in
the decrea
Rernstorf f ' word from Berlin was
reported to include assurances that Ge'
many recognizes the pledge given in
the Lnsitnnia nnd Arabic cases not tc
'attack peaceful ships without warning,
but it is said to hold thnt armed sessels
ore not peaceful ships entitled to suci
consideration.
Congress Quiets Down.
Coneress is not expected to interfere
in tho administration's German-Amer
ican course. Excitei...-nt there baa sub
sided; Senator Gore said he would not
press his resolution culling for a warn
ing to Americans to keep off armed
ships and tho house pacificists havo
practically abandoned similur agitation.
It is reported that Bernstorff iu
struc.tious point out that danger to.
Americans from the German decree is
remote and administration men believe
thnt is a fact, particularly as no armed
British, French or Russian ships touch.
America and take American passengers.
The general arming of Italian ships i
the principal danger. But Germany i
not at war with Italy, boi naturally
would not attack her ships. Any disput
about American on Italian armed ship
would probably be with Austria which
is at war with Italy.
It is reliably reported that Germany
is not yet proposing to discuss what,
constitutes defensive armament.
Ambassador Bernstorff conferred
with l.aiminff. The emba.fsv said it did
not evpect postponement of the armed,
mere.nanimen decree. ,
. Amh...iilnr Ui.pimtorff left n memo
randum with Secretary Lansing, in r',
six minute conference.. Lansing, an
nounced he has this notice under, cou-.
sideration. i
(Continued on Paaa Three.) (
'
; THE WEATHER
$ -
Oregon: To
night lair south, '
n 1 11 or snow .
north portion; :
Tuesday fair
west, mint, or
snow east por
lion; westerly
winds.
TNEBOAlfiiR)
