VOL. LVIII. NO. 244
POPULATION 28,219
NORWICH, CONN., TUESDAY, OCTOBER 10, 1916
12 PAGES 84 COLUMNS
PRICE TWO CENTS
The Bulletin's Circulation in Norwich is Double That of Any Other Paper, and Its Total Circulation is the Largest in Connecticut in .Proportion to the City's Population.
Known List of the Victims
Raids Remains
IT WAS ALL THE WORK
U Boat Was so Busy That One Steamer Was Requested to
Wait Her Turn While Another Was Being Destroyed
Admiral Albert Gleaves of the U. S. Torpedo Boat De
stroyer Flotilla Declares That the U-Boat Was Very Fast
and Appeared to Have Been Cleverly Handled There is
No Verification of the Rumor That More Than Six
Steamships Were Sent to the Bottom Commendation
and Testimonials for Rescue Work of the United States
Naval Boats Shipping Men Are Not Reassured by the
Lull in Submersible Activities.
Newport, R. I., Oct 9. Th whole- I
pole raid on foreign shipping south of
Nantucket lightship Sunday was the
work of one submarine, according to
(reports of American naval officers.
'Rear Admiral Albert Gleaves, com
manding the torpedo boat destroyer
'flotilla which did such remarkably
'speedy rescue work yesterday, said to
night that the reports of all his officers
agTeed that to the best of their ob
servation one raider only was con
cerned. This boat, presumably, was
the German U-53, which called at
Newport Saturday afternoon to mail a
letter to Ambassador Bernstorff, and
then put to sea without taking on an
ounce of supplies, although she was 17
days from her base, according to the
Statement of her officers.
Only One Submersible.
Admiral Gleaves said he could easilj'
understand the positive statements of
the captain of the Nantucket lightship
and of the sailors of the torpedoed ves
sels that more than one submersible
was concerned. The U-boat, he said,
was very fast and appeared to have
been handled cleverly. It waseasy,
he pointed out, for her to disappear
on one eide of a ship and then show
up unexpectedly at another spot.
Doubtless, he believed, she had sub
merged and reappeared often enough
to mislead any but a keen professional
observer and to create the impression
that more than one tea terror was op
erating:. This opinion would seem to
:be borne out by the statements of
many of the. refugees that the sub
marine had more "business on hand
(than she could take care of ai once
and was obliged to request one steamer
to wait her. turn while another was
being: put out of commission. Lieutenant-Commander
Miller of the de
stroyer Ericsson, who witnessed the
destruction of the Stephano, said he
was positive that only one submersible
was in the vicinity at the time.
Today the raiding had ceased, at
least for the moment.
The known list of the victims of the
TJ-boat's Sunday exploits remains at
six, notwithstanding reports from the
Nantucket lightship that three other
ships, the identity of which
oe learned, were sent to the bottom, i
There was also a persistent rumor
muium vermcaiion, mat a British
cruteer, one of the allied patrol fleet
sent to the submarine zone, had been
attacked.
Ten More Refugees Landed.
Ten more refugees were landed here
tonight by the Melville, tender of the
destroyer flotilla, which picked up ten
Chinese members of the crew of the
uteamer Stratndene- They were sent
to the training station to be held until
Immigration inspectors can pass upon
their cases, after which thev probably
will be transferred to New York.
Destroyers swept the waters for a
wide area today in a vain search for
the crew of the steamer Kingstonian,
who were seen by members, of the
steamer Strathdene to take to their
boats before their vessel was sunk.
Rear Admiral Knight, commandant of
the Narragansett bay naval defense
district, did not appear to be alarmed
at the lack of success in finding the
missing men and saw no reason tg
change his previous reports that the
raid so destructive to property was ac
complished without losS'of life. It was
the commandant's opinion that the
Kingstonian's crew had been picked
up by an eastbound steamer which did
not care to divulge her position to
lurking submarines by reporting the
fact by wireless.
Shipping Men Not Reassured.
Notwithstanding the lull in subma
rine activities today, shipping men
were by no means reassured. If only
one raider were concerned she might
be waiting only to replenish her sup
plies, they believed.
This gave rise to a renewal of re
ports that elaborate methods of sup
plying foreign submarines from Amer
ican bases had been perfected.
In order to dispose so far as nnsst-
ble of claims of this sort as applied
to the 'Narragansett bay district, Wil
liam H. Walcctt, deputy collector of
customs, made a careful investigation
iwuay to learn n any merchant boat
or yacht had cleared from Nmranri
Saturday or Sunday which might have
carried supplies. The investigation, it
tfl understood, was made on orders
from Washington. Mr. Walcott found
no indication that any such supply
coat naa cleared.
Had No Prior Knowled""
Another report perflating in u. .
ping circles was that the call r.f Cap
lain nana itose or the i;-5: ucon
American naval officers here was to
give an Intimation that revcue ships
might be needed in the vicinity soon,
as well as to exchange " formal visits
of courtesy. Shippers pointed to the
promptness with which seventeen flt
destroyers had been rushed at full
speed to Nantucket lightship within
a few minutes after the reports came
of the sinking of the first submarine
victim, the British freighter West
yolnt. Reajv Admiral . Gleayes, , com-
of the U-Boat's Sunday
at Six Ships
OF ONE SUBMARINE
mander of the torpedo flotilla, dis
claimed in a statement tonight, abso
lutely any prior knowledge of the in
tentions of the German u-boat.
"Mv only information, he said, was
contained in an S. O. S. message which
said that the steamer West Point had
been sunk and that her crew had
taken to the boats. The natural thing
to do was to order out every avail
able vesel to search for the crew. As
it happened it was fortunate that we
had so many ships out ana I am very
glad that we were able to render the
aid we did.
He concluded with the declaration
that nothing had passed between him
and Captain Rose during their formal
calls which gave any indication as to
what the plans of the U-boat com
mander were.
Commendation for Rescue Work.
Admiral Gleaves received today
from various sources, official and oth
erwise, commendation for the rescue
work of the various vessels under his
command. He also received a num
ber of offers of aid and supplies for
the care of the survivors, IncliMIng
one from E. A. Morse of YohRers, " N.
Y., director of the Atlantic division of
the Red Cross. To all these proffers
of help Admiral Gleaves expressed his
appreciation but stated that the sur
vivors were amply taken care of.
Many of them have- been taken in
charge by members of the summer
colony here, while others proceeded to
New York and the accommodations at
the naval training station here are
ample to care for the refugees remain
ing here.
Testimonials of Appreciation.
A testimonial of appreciation for
the assistance rendered by the flotilla,
particularly the aid given by Lleuten
ant-Commander D. C. Hanrahan and
the men of the destroyer Balch who
picked up the passengers of the Red
Cross line steamer Stephano was sign
ed by the passengers and crew of the
liner. Among the signers were Charles
G. McGrath, Norman Hoffman, Dr.
Robert B. Lundy, Dr. H. L. Barnum,
Dr. Vincent B. Burke, Joseph Lupin
Florence Jennings and Helen and Gris-
vo-d Huribiirt. Most of these are
residents of New York.
ioth,-;r testimonial with the nam
of the same sigriers attached was for
warded to Bowing and company. New
lork agents of the Stephano, com
mending the work of Captain Smith
and the officers and crew under him
The statement declared that Captain
Smith showed rare courage and exe
cutive ability in transferring the pas
sengers and crew to the small boats
without the slightest mishap or panic
Emergency Committee Organized.
In the midst of the uncertainty re
garding the future movements of the
German raiders, members of the fash
lonable summer colony here met today
and took steps to organize an' emer
gency committee to work in coniunc
tion with the Newport chapter of the
Red Cross Society in case of a removal
of the wholesale sinking of foreign
shipping. It was planned to have this
committee prepare supplies and equip
ment for instant use and to list avail
able automobiles and ambulances and
to take other steps to give quick aid
in an emergency. Among those par
ticipating m the conference were Mrs
R. Livingston Beeckman, wife of Gov
ernor Beeckman; Mrs. Elsie French
Vanderbilt, Mrs. Ernest Howe, Mrs.
Daniel B. Fearing, Dr. Charles D. Eas
ton and Rev. Roderick Terrv.
In many quarters the opinion was
expressed today that another outbreak
of the U-boat and her consorts, if she
had any. would not be surprising. It
was reported by members of the crew
of the steamer Strathdene that the !
submarine which sank her had filled
her fuel tanks with oil from the Nor
wegian tank steamer Chr Knudsen be
fore the latter was sent to the bottom.
Other refugees have declared that
they saw a German supply ship hov
ering in the vicinity of the raid Sun
day. Although fuel tanks may have been
replenished from the Norwegian na
val officers expressed the opinion that
after a day of such remarkable activ
ity as yesterday's, the submarine must
be short of ammunftian. Reports of
many of the refugees agree that the
submersible which halted their shira
was prodigal in the use of sheils and
most of them were of the opinion that
after their steamer had been shelled
it was given her finishing blow
by a torpedo.
NO EMBARGOES BECAUSE
OF SUBMARINE CAMPAIGN
Announcement Made by Railroads
With Terminals in New York City.
New York, Oct. 9. Authoritative
announcement was made here today
that none of the large railroads with
terminals in this city had taken fresh
action in regard to freight embargoes
as the result of the German subma
rine campaign off the American coast,
It was explained that last winter
most of the railroads . agreed to limifrjj
Cabled Parens
' vo '
Danish Si'V ?ne Sunk.
Copenhagen. J, via (London, 6.29
p. m. The " jth submarine Dyk
loeren was ' today after being in
collision wit, a Norwegian steamer.
The crew of the submersible is be
lieved to have been saved.
French and Serbians Lost With Gallia.
London, Oct. 9, 7.38 p. m. Of the
two thousand French and Serbian
troops on the liner Gallia when she
was sunk in the Mediterranean on
Oct. 4, 1,362 were saved, says a Reu
ter despatch from Paris.
ALLEGED EXTORTION FOR
WILSON CAMPAIGN FUNDS
Democratic National Committee in
Trouble Over Discovery Made.
New York, Oct. 9. The democratic
national committee is in trouble over
the discovery of its attempt to extort
Wilson campaign funds from post
masters and other federal office hold
ers. Chairman McCormick undertook
at first to deny utterly that any such
attempt was being made. He said the
charge was "arrant nonsense, and ab
solutely untrue." Then he learned
that the republican national commit
tee had proof that the charge was
true. Thereupon Mr. McCormick
sought cover by making public a letter
written by the Texas state chairman,
instructing the 'bagmen how to vio
late the law and escape the peniten
tiary and announcing that he and the
rest of the democratic national com
mittee repudiated it. But a great deal
more is needed from Mr. McCormick
in the way of explanation and denial
before the case is closed. Something
is needed also from Postmaster Gen
eral Burleson in whose state, Texas,
this attempt at extortion was made.
Something is needed also from Mr. D.
O. Roper, who resigned the office of
first assistant postmaster general to
become a member of the democratic
national campaign committee, cited by
Mr. Ridgeway as authority for the
extortion scheme. When Mr. McCor
mick has given due attention to this
case from Texas he may be ready to
take up the case of the state of Wash
ington, and issue a repudiation of the
gangmen who are so active in collect
ing assessment from federal office
holders there.
HUGHES REGISTERS FOR
THE NOVEMBER ELECTION
Has Not Voted Since He Was Elected
Associate Justice in 1910,
New York, Oct. 9. Charles E.
Hughes registered for the November
election here today. He was the first
voter to do so in the Third election
district of the twenty-fourth assem
bly district, his voting precinct ever
since he was governor of New York.
The registration place is normallly a
laundry. If Mr. Hughes votes next
month, it will be the first time since
1910 when he was elected an associate
justice of the supreme court of the
United States.
-in--explan- tion of the nomim?es-fail-
ure to vote during the past six years,
a statement was issued at republican
national headquarters that Mr. Hughes
found it was the general custom of the
justices of the supreme court who
hold life positions and are wholly out
of politics to abstain from voting."
To enable all the members of the
court to vote, it was added, it would
require the court to ariandon it3 ses
sions for a long period, "the time re
quired for a journey of all its- mem
bers to various parts of the country
and back again to register, and another
to vote." No member of the court
voted during the period Mr. Hughes
was on the bench, the statement de
clared. Mr. Hughes in registering gave his
occupation as a lawyer. He filed an
affidavit stating that because of his
employment as justice or the supreme
court he was absent from his domicile
and that he claimed not to have lost
his residence here by reason of such
absence.
STRUCK IN THE FACE
BY SEVERAL BIRDSHOT
Jeffrey O. Phelps and Mrs. M. V. Bar
ton Shot by Unknown Person.
Hartford, Conn., Oct. 9. As Jeffrey
O. Phelps, Jr., state commissioner of
domestic animals and Mrs. M. V. Bar
ton were returning from Simsbury in
an automobile late this afternoon, an
unknown person, secreted behind bush
es in Elizabeth park, clscharged a
shotgun at them and several birdshot
struck both in the face. The wounds
were slight. Mr. Phelps reported the
matter to the police, who made a vain
search for the assailant.
Commissioner Phelps boards at Mrs.
Barton's house here.
The armed Cunard
sailed for Liverpool.
liner Alaunia
shipments to the eastern seaboard to
the cargo space which could be pro
vided on ocean-going vessels. It was
conceded today that the new undersea
boat activity, with its resultant with
drawal of many ship bottoms, would
cause more or less freight congestion
here and in other ports. Should the
situation necessitate it, it was stated,
embargoes would be placed to prevent
the arrival in the east of more freight
than could be transported abroad.
WHEAT VALUES BROKE
SEVERELY YESTERDAY
Because of the Wholesale Destruction
of Vessels Off Massachusetts Coast
Chicago, Oct. 9. Wheat values broke
severely today, 4 3-4 cents a bushel,
altogether on account of wholesale de
struction of vessels and because of
the fact that sailings were being can
celled on a large scale. Sharpened
export demand, however, rallied the
market, which closed Arm at 1 1-2
2 3-4 cent net decline, with Decem
ber at 157 1-4 and May at 156 3-4.
Corn finished 3-3 to 518 cents down.
oats off 3-4 and provisions showing a
loss ot nve cents to fifty-two cents.
Excited rushes to sell carried down
wheat prices in some cases 4 1-2 cents
right at the outset, but evidence that
exporters were actively buying- on the
decline caused confidence to some ex
.tent to replace semi-panic. Recovery
tn quotations was making rather no
table progress until word came that
British vessel owners were giving or
ders to postpone departures at such
leading ports as Philadelphia ana Bal
timore. Then the weakness in the
wheat market was temporarily renew
ed and the breaks were worse even
than at the opening. Export buying,
however, again became apparent and
to a considerable extent offset fears
that business with Europe would be
seriously curtailed by inability to make
shipments.
Details of Sinking
of the Strathdene
CAPTAIN SAYS SHIP WAS AT
TACKED WITHOUT WARNING.
13 SHOTS WERE FIRED
Cla ims That the Ship Was Fired on
Before the Officers and Crew Got
Into the Boats Was Later Tor:
pedoed.
New York, Oct. 9. Thirteen shots
were fired ait the British Hteamshin
Strathdene, one of the vessels sunk
by a German submarine off Nantucket
yesterday before the 3S members of
tne crew had taken to their boats, ac
cording to Captain Wilson, the Strath -
dene's commander, who was brought
nere today with his crew by the Uru
guayan steamer Plm No. 4.
Attacked Without Warning.
"My ship was attacked without
warning," declared Captain Wilson
arter he naa given a detailed state
ment of the incident to the British
consul-general. "Thirteen shots were
fired before we left the vessel. None
of the shots, however, struck the ship
until we naa taken to the boats."
Under instructions from the con
sul-general, Captain Wilson declined
to give out further information. Con
sular officials said Captain Wilson's
report first would have to be forward
ed to the British ambassador at Wash
ington before he could discuss the
sinking of the Strathdene.
Members of the Strathdene's crew
said that after they had pulled away
from their ship, they saw the sub
marine approach the oil steamer Chris
tian Knudsen, whose crew seemed to
be getting ready to lower their boats
y Torpedoed the Strathdene.
The submarine then returned, tor
peaoca the strathdene and again
steamed toward the oil ship and ap
parently replenished hen- il tanks.
Several torpedo boats were in the vi
cinity, the saiiors said, when the two
ships were sunk. Officers of the res
cuing ship asserted the Strathdene's
officers told them that the submarine
was made fast to the tanker for three
quarters of an hour, taking oil, be
fore that vessel was sunk.
Fired On Before Crew Got Into Boats,
Accounts of the torpedoing of the
Strathdene told on beard the Plm No
4 by the rescued crew, corroborated
Captain Wilson's statement that his
ship was fired on before the officers
and crew got into the boats.
Captain Yates of the Plm No. 4
said that CurritTrf"Wilson toldnTra
that whenihe"ieuliiiarine came artrnjj
side, eight or ten ofncer.3, including
C aptain Rose of the U-S3, boarded the
Strathdene.
Ordered to Abandon Ship.
"Captain Rose ordered me to aban
don ship immediately," Captain Yates
said Captain Wilson told him. "The
two boats were lowered and the sub
marine commander gave instructions
for reaching Nantucket lightship, or
dering us to row as fast as possible.
As we pulled away the submarine
fired four more shots at her which
struck above. the water line."
The oil steamer just then hove in
sight and the submarine headed for
her, afterward returning to torpedo
the Strathdene.
SENATOR M'LEAN ACCEPTS
CUMMINGS' CHALLENGE
For a Joint Debate on the Issues of
the Campaign.
Hartford, Conn., Oct. 9. United
States Senator George P. McLean, who
is a candidate for re-election on the
republican ticket, today formally ac
cepted the challenge of his democratic
opponent, Homer S. Cummings of
Stamford, for a joint debate on the
issues of the campaign.
The acceptance was made through
J. Henry Roraback, chairman of the
republican state central committee,
who received the challenge from Mr.
Cummings through David E. Fitz-Ge,r-ald,
chairman of the democratic state
central committee.
Senator McLean's previous engage
ments will prevent him from meeting
Mr. Cummings in debate before Oct.
25. The letter of acceptance calls at
tention to the fact that Senator Mc
Lean is scheduled to speak in Stam
ford on that date. As this Is Mr.
Cummings' home town Senator Mc
Lean sug'gests that the debate be held
there.
The letter to David E. Fitzgerald,
chairman democratic state central
committee, follows: ,
"Dear Sir: In further answer to
your favor of the sixth inst., extend
ing an invitation to Senator McLean
to meet Mr. Cummings in joint de
bate on political issues, would say
that Senator McLean will be glad to
meet Mr. Cummings but his present
engagements are such that he will be
unable to fix a date before the 25th of
October. On that night he speaks in
Mr. Cummings' home town, Stamford,
and if agreeable to Mr. Cummings he
will meet him in joint debate there
at that time. Very trulv yours,
"J. H. RORABACK,
"Chairman Republican State Central
Committee."
Plans for Mr. McLean's speaking
tour were fixed several days ago, it
was stated at the republican state
headquarters today when the refly
was given out.
OSBORNE RESIGNS
FROM SING SING
Superintendent of Prisons Announces
Resignation of the Warden.
Buffalo. Oct. 9. Thomas Mott Os
borne's resignation as warden of Sing
Sing prison was announced by James
M. Carter, state superintendent of
prisons here today.
Movements of Steamships.
Plymouth, Oct. 8. Arrived, steamer
Andania, iNew lork.
Kirkwall, Oct. 7. Arrived, steamer
Noordam, Jvew York for Rotterdam.
Christiansana, Oct, 7 Sailed, steam
er United States, New Yorjc.
Cadiz, Oct. 1. Sailed, steamer Mon
tevideo, New York.
(Liverpool, Oct, 7. Sailed, steamer
Orduna, New York.
New York, Oct. t). 'Arrived, steamer
Patris, Piraeus.
December - is the .wheat .harvest
l monto an JNew eoutn woiea.-.
Conference on
Submarine Raids
SECRETARY LANSING TO CON
SULT PRESIDENT WILSON.
TO VISIT SHADOW LAWN
The German Ambassador Has Discuss
ed With President Wilson the New
Activities of German Submarines
Letter from Kaiser.
Long Branch, N. J., Oct. 9. Secre
tarv Lansing, it was announced to
night, will come here tomorrow for a
conference with President Wilson con
cerning German submarine raids oft
the American coast. Mr. Lansing is
expected to remain over night at the
president s summer residence.
Concern Over the Situation.
The announcement that the secretary
of state would confer with the presi
dent confirmed the impression gained
here earlier in the day tnat tne Amen
can erovernment considered the attacKS
on vessels oft the American coast by a
German submarine as fraught with
grave possibilities. At the same time
it was made clear that there is nothing
in the reports so far received to show
that international law or the earlier
promises of Germany have been vio
lated. Concern over the situation cen
tered chiefly about the possibility of
what might happen if the submarine
attacks are continued.
Personal Letter from Kaiser.
Count Von Bernstorff, the German
ambassador, who came here today to
give the president a personal letter
from the German emporer on Polish
relief, discussed with Mr. Wilson the
new activities of , German submarines.
It was understood that Mr. Wilson
made it clear that while the American I
government had no intention of inter-
fering with the legitimate activities of
submarines, it would insist on the
Etrict observance of the pledges given
previously by the German govern
ment. The ambassador, while expressing an
entire lack of official information from
his government on the new submarine
attacks, said that Germany had prom
ised to conduct her submarine warfare
in accordance with the rules of cruiser
warfare.
The ambassador remained with the
president only fifteen minutes and was
smiling when he left. He declared he
was as much surprised as anybody
when the news of the sinking of the
first British ship reached him.
Talk Was Entirely Friendly.
elTeffufthe talk between
TOTEreYn oTent 'B rtfl'"Hfe-atrmitfisador was
entirely friendly, but that the president
informed the ambassador of his deter
mination to act firmly if the rights of
the United States are infringed.
The president had seriously consid
ered going to Bro-oklj'n tomorrow to
attend the third world's series baseball
game, but decided to remain here and
keep in touch with the submarine sit
uation. COMMANDED INCOMING
AND OUTGOING LANES.
German Submarine Commander Se
lected Good Position.
Boston, Oct. 9. When Lieutenant
Captain Hans Rose went warring on
enemy shipping ho placed the sub
marine U-53 in a position to com
mand both the incoming lane and the
outgoing lane of what is known as the
"outside course" of Atlantic travel.
Operating off the Nantucket light
ship, he was much farther from the
American coast than the common de
scription of his zone of activities sug
gests. The island of Nantucket lies 20 miles
south of the elbow of Cape Cod. The
Nantucket lightship is stationed 45
miles south of Nantucket island. Be
tween the island and the lightship are
dangerous shoals. Accordingly, while
operating m(i the lightship, the U-53
was 45 miles from American territory
and 65 miles from the mainland. So
far as an invasion of the three-mile
limit neutral f.one was concerned, the
warship might as well have been m
mid-ocean.
Immediately south of Aantucket Isl
and is the lane followed by eastbound
vessels. Twenty miles south of the
island is the path of shipping bound in
for New York.
The U-53. scouting 10 miles south or
Nantucket in clear weather Sunday,
was able to Dick up every craft going
and coming on the outside course and
only had to wait for her prey.
Vessels that upon being warned
Ehifted their course to the inside route
that took them over the perilous snoais
between Nantucket and the mainland
escaped the submarine, but it is appar
ent that shipping generally chose the
submarine danger in preference to the
hazard of the ehoals.
STEAMERS ABANDONING
CUSTOMARY COURSES.
Wireless Reports from the Cameronia
and the Frederik VIII. .
TMo-m- Vnrk. Oct. 9. Wireless reports
from the Anchor liner Cameronia and
the Frederik VIII of the Scandinavian
American line received here tonight in
dicated that the steamers are proceed
ing to this port well ott tneir cus
tomary courses. Both have heavy
passenger lists, that of the Frederik
VIII including James W. Gerard, the
American ambassador to Germany, and
Mrs. Gerard. . ,
SEARCHING FOR MISSING
CREW OG KINGSTONIAN.
Likely They Have Been Picked Up by
Some Eastbound Merchantman.
Washington, Oct, 9. Rear Admiral
Knight at Newport reported to the navy
department tonight that although the
American destroyer flotilla was con
tinuing its search for the missing crew
nf the "British steamer Kingstonian. he
thought it likely they had been picked
up by some eastbound merchantman
which had taken them out to sea with
out reporting because of fear that use
of her wireless wouia enaanger ner.
Page Arrives in London.
London, Oct. 9, 4 p. m. waiter
Hines Page, the American ambassador
to the court cf St. James, arrived in
London today on board the American
1 MntffiawkjrssssfcSsw
Condensed Telegrams
The Duchess of Manchester sailed
for England, on the American linr
Philadelphia-
John Roid, Sr known as the father
or golf in America, died at his home
at Yonkers, N. Y.
Dr. Lauro Muller, Brazilian Foreign
Mniister, arrived at Para on his return
from the United States.
William Sickels, letter carrier, of
East New York, dropped dead, after a
fight in a cafe near his home.
Count von Dohna-Schlodion, com
mander of the German cruiser Moewe,
was killed in battle In France,
Two men were seriously injured in a
fight between striking carpenters and
dockbuilders working in Long Island
City.
Paul Boethy, president of the Hun
garian House of Representatives,
formerly minister of commerce, is
dead.
Blando Vineenzo aged 41, a laborer,
was eltrocuted at Burnaldo when he
came into contact with a charged
trolley pole.
A momorial meeting In honor of the
late James Whitcomb Riley was held
at Indianapolis on the .anniversary of
the poet s birth.
The body of a young man found in
the East River was identified as that
of the missing Cornell student, Rob
ert N. Blackhall.
Four boys were injured by the col
lapse of a scaffol'd in a partially con
structed theatre at No. 723 Forest
Avenue, the Bronx.
Mr. and Mrs. W. Vanderbilt, who
have been visiting hospitals at the
front, sailed for New York on the
steamship Lafayette.
King Constantino of Greece, person
ally called at the home of Dionysis
Stephanou and asked the aged slates
man, who is ill abed, to form a Cab
inet. .
Figures compiled by the British
Board of Trade for the month of Sep
tember show that imports increased
$26,010, while exports increased $35,
845,000. ' -
One man was killed and two were
badly injured when a furniture van of
Cowperthwait & Sons, furniture deal
ers, overturned at Lenox Avenue and
i5th Street.
Mothers of Englewocd, N. J., are up
in arms against the change in school
hours to 8:30 in the morning and dis
crimination in favor of children of
wealthy families.
Eight persons were injured when a
heavy automobile truck of the Empire
Carting Co., crashed head-on with a
west twmwt--jK th"'8treer"e rosstown cat-
near Jfiftli. Avenue,
The will cf Thomas L. James, Post
master-General under President Gar
field, was admitted to probate at
Mackensack, N. J. He left ;.n estate
valued at $1,000,000.
Mrs. Mary Copeland, aged 65, wid
ow, was struck by the engine of an
express train at a crossing at East
Hartford and died while being rushed
to a Hortford Hospital.
George Anito, five, of The Bronx,
New York, dide at Lebanon Hospital
from burns received when Ms clothing
caught fire from a small bonfire, built
by boj's in a vacant lot.
James Medskar, arrested in St.
Louis, confessed he was 'one of three
men who held up the New York-Chicago
Express on the Michigan Rail
road, near Detroit, on Sept. 27.
Contributions at the rate of $100 a
minute for twenty minutes were pledg
ed for foreign mission at the Euclid
Avenue Baptsit Church as John D.
Rockefeller smiled his approwil.
The Robert Bacon Senatorial League
received $64,739.40 and spent $64,715i.60
on its unsuccessful campaign to have
its candidate nominated r'or United
States Senator by the Republicans.
Loula Long, widely known as a
hosewoman, was seriously injured
when she was shrown from her mount
in a potato race at the American Roy
al Livestock Show at Kansas City.
Jim Jacques, a negro well known all
over the country a few years ago as
the keeper of the most notorious "dive"
in New England, died at the home of
friends in Bridgeport, aged about 79.
Demands for a seven hour day will
be made by coal miners of the coun
try at the coming wage conferences,
according to John P. White, president
of the United Mine Workers of Amer
ica.
Two trainmen were killed when an
ea.stbound Cincinnati, Indianapolis &
Western freight train crashed into a
west bound freight which was switch
ing cars on to a siding at Maplewood,
Ind.
The British steamer Hawkshead
reached Newport News under her own
steam apparently not much damaged
by her collision in the harbor with the
Chesapeake line steamer City of Nor
folk. J. Percy Evans of Warranton, Va.
died in the Polyclinic Hospital, New
York, as the result of injuries receiv
ed when his horse fell with him on
Sept. 30 in a steeplechase at Belmont
Park.
Chief R. W. Kappenburg of the East
Hartford police department died in a
hospital at Hartford as the result of
inujries received on September 19,
when he was struck by an automobile
while directing traffic in East Hart
ford. Rev. Charles F. Taylor, pastor of
the Second ' Congregational church at
Greenwich, and prominent in the po
litical affairs of the town, announced
his resignation to take effect Novem
ber 6.
William Howell Ellis, who is prom
inent socially in Philadelphia, shot and
killed his wife and then attempted su
icide by shooting himself at his home
"Hollyhock" on the Bethlehem turn
pike near Ambler.
A posse of 150 citizens was scouring
the woods near Cromwell for an un
identified tramp who, is is alleged, as
saulted the eight year old daughter of
Mr. and Mrs .Anthony Hoffman. The
little girl was found unconscious not
far from nernomeln the Plains dis
Rumanians Are
in Full Retreat
TEUTONIC ALLIES CAPTURE
TOWN OF TOBRZBURG.
NEAR RUMANIAN BORDER
Considerable Hard Fighting Has Again
Taken Place West of Lutsk and
Farther South in Galicia, With Con
tradictory Reports.
On the battle fronts in Europe,
Transylvania and Macedonia continue
for the moment the centers of greatest
interest. According to Berlin, the Ru.
manians in Transylvania are retreating
along the whole line. The Teutonic
allies have recaptured the town of
Toerzburg, fifteen miles southwest oi
Kronstadt and within seven miles ol
the Rumania border. In fhe Danube
north of Sislova, the Germans hav
occupied an island, taking six guns and
making prisoners of the Rumanian
troops there.
Serbians Cross- Cerna River.
Serbians in considerable force have
crossed the Cerna rirer in Serbia and
captured the town of Skochivir, south
east of Monastir and also have occu
pied positions along the north bank of
the river.
Hard Fighting in Galicia.
Considerable hard lighting has again
taken place in the region west ol
Lutsk and farther south in Galicia, but
the results are somewhat beclouded by
reason of the contradictory reports ol
Petrograd and Berlin war office state
ments. Petrograd says the Russians a)
some points in Volhynia succeeded ir
pnterinrr Austro-German positions eas1
of Vladimir-Volynski, but Berlin re
ports that three attacks failed with
sn.ngiiinaryjsses to the Russians. Near
Brezeany, southeast of Lemberg in
Galicia, both Petrograd ana Berlin rec
ord repulses of attacks. In the Car
pathians the Germans have made an ad
vance at Babaludowa.
Eorr.bardments in France.
Violent reciprocal bombardments arc
in progress in the Somme region ol
France. Infantry attacks also hav
taken place but no important gains for
either aide have been chonicled.
AN UNPRECEDENTED FEAT IN
TELEGRAPHIC TRANSMISSION
One Operator Sent Story of Baseball
Game to 300 Offices in JS.OCIVM ile
New Yor'.r, Oct. 9. An unprecedent
ed feat in the telegraphic transmis
rr.is.sion of news was accomplished by
the traffic department of The Asso
ciated Press today when one operator
sitting in 'the stand at Braves Field in
Boston was enabled to flash over 1SO0U
miles of leased wire the story of how
the Bostons beat the Brooklyns in the
second game of the world's baseball
series.
Taking dictation from The Associat
ed Press representatives who were
covering the grume, this operator, J. A.
Bates, through the telegraphic con
nections arranged for the service, was
&b!e to send the story to 300 Asso
ciated Press offices and nevspapers in
the United States, tick for tick, into
each onice simultaneously as far
west as San Francisco, as far north a.3
Duluth and as far south as New Or
leans. The operator sent the story over this
18,000 mile circuit continuously for two
and a half hours and, at the instant
McXally crossed the home plate with
the winning run in the fourteenth in
ning, the flash "Boston Wins" had
gone the length and breadth of the
country.
Heretofore, in reporting world's se
ries, the news had been relayed at Chi
cago and other points. The experi
ment today of making a complete
trans-continental connection was ro-.
ported entirely successful.
Five thousand additional miles of cir
cuit received the story through relays,
but this was by reason of news con
ditions. The 1S,000 mile circuit; how
ever, stands as a record in telegraphic
history.
WARD LINER ANTILLA
ARRIVES IN HAMPTON ROADS
Fire in Her Sugar Cargo fs Virtually
Under Control,
Newport News, Va., Oct. 9. With the
fire in her sugar cargo virtually under
control, the Ward Line freight steam
er Antilla arrived in Hampton Roads
tonight from sea in tow of the naval
tug Sonoma. She was accompanied
by the coast guard cutter Onondaga,
which went to her rescue Saturday
night and which found the yacht Paci.
fique in distress en route. The cut
ter' brought the yacht to this port to
night. Aboard the Onondaga were Captain
Blackadder of the Antilla, his small
daughter and his three mates. The
crew had been transferred at sea to
the Ward liner Morro Castle and ar
rived at New York today. It was said
tonight that the fire in the steamer's
hold was discovered Friday but got
beyond control and later Saturday the
steamer sent out distress calls. Tugs
here will, assist in putting out the
flames.
DAN BURY HATTERS APPEAL
PAYMENT OF $20,000 INTEREST
On $252,000 Judgment Against Them
for Boycotting D. E. Loewe & Co.
Washington, Oct. 9. Payment of
$20,000 interest on the $252,000 judg
ment in the Danbury hatters case
against members of the Ratters Union
for boycotting the firm of D. E. Loewe
and Company was contested in an
appeal today to the supreme court
by the Savings Bank of Danlxury,
Conn, which holds savings of union
members attached to satisfy the
Judgment
A lower court held the Loewe com-
pany was entitled to the interest,
Russia 'Raiding Asia Minor Porta. '
Petrograd, Oct, 9, via London, 1.85
p. mv Russian warships raided the
Asia Minor eearports of Eamsun and
Sinope, in the iBlaclt eea, on Oct 6;
says today's Russian official statement,
destroying 5S sailing vessels. One
steel boat was brought; to Sebastopol
and 40 men were.madeprisonerEthA
statement addjb
