"Seen on the Side *
A T.-t). Editorial Page Feature
'?Light, Bright and Unique
fUriimond STimeS-flisiJatch
No Lapse in News
T.-D Only Richmond Paper
With 7-Day A. P. Service
&krs?,.,.kh ?rain.
price. two cents.
RED SOX DEFEAT
DODGERS IN DEST
OF WORLD BATTLES
Teams Fi^ht With Almost
Superhuman Skill and
Courage.
DELOS GAINER IS HERO
IN SECOND BIG FRACAS
His Single in Gathering Darkness
Briims 2-to-l Victory in
Fourteenth Inning.
DIAMOND l>i:i:i>S ()??? DA KING
I'lay Abounds tn Si/./.linn Hits, Won
derful Cat dies and Throws
and Kopii (ionrralsliip.
nOF.TON*. MASS. October ?Breaking
world's series rpcoril? to shreds. the
Roston American* defeated the P.rook
Jyn Nationals by a score of 2 to 1. in
a. fourtccn-inning came here this af
ternoon. It was rhe second contest
for the championship. ami was decided!
only after a strnggle that surpassed
In situations any ever evolved in the
fertile mi ml of a baseball fiction
writer.
l'or more than two hours the teams
battled with almost superhuman skill
and courage through a one-run tie.
Then, with the stage set as if for
thrilling climax, a pinch-hitter and a
pinrh-runner won victory for the Bed
So.r Just as twilight threw its mantle
of seniidarkncss over Braves' Field.
Of the heroes who arose from the
playing field, as did the warriors from
the dragon's teeth sown by Jason
tn taien of Greek mythology, Oelos
Gainer, of IClkins, W Va., was the star
of the stars. It was his simile in the
gathering darkness of the. final inning
thai stored from second base Michael
M'-Nally, ?f Mi nook a, I\a., running
for llobtilzel. with the tally that won
the ?ccoml straight victory for the
Carriganitt'S.
The oontest opened with a sensa
ti lial circuit smash by "Hi" Myers,
in the Initial inning, and not for a
moment afterward did the struggle
halt or lose interest for the forty-odd
thousand fans, who hun? on every play
with Intensity equal to that of the
members of the two teams battling
for fame, and financial rewards. For
a short space of time, the lone run
scored by Myers appeared to be the
margin that might give Brooklyn an
even break in the serb s. In the third
inning, however, Scott tripled to cen
ter. and, scored the tying run when
<~'ot:*baw juggled Buth's tap, and had
time onl> to make the pla\ at first
base.
i:i,i;vi:\ iwi.nc.s \\ rriiot t
adv.aNT.ttii: I'dit i:iTrn:it
From that point, the Tied Sox and
Superbas grappled in a baseball bat
tle that rolled through eleven periods
of play wilhout the slightest advantny
for either club, while diamond deeds
of amazing daring and skill held the
spectators enthralled. Sizzling bits,
wonderful catches, scintillating throws
and the keenest ?>( baseball general
ship, succeeded each other so rapidly
that those preceding were forgotten
in the stunning brilliancy of later
"Vents
Thus it came about that, with gray
nhadows creeping down over the
stands to the field, the Boston players
made their last stand at the plate.
Sherrod Smith. Brooklyn's southpaw,
who had fought a splendid twirling
duel against Cnrrlgan's left-handed
star. "Babe" Uuth, faltered for an in
stant with llobiitzel at the bat. lie
e.ould not locate the plate in the
twilight, and passed "Ilobby" to l?au
bert'a station. Lewis moved his club
mate to second with an infield sac
rifice.
Here the Bed Sox manager showed his
baseball acumen by sending Mc.Vally
in to run for llobiitzel, and taking
?Gainer from the bench tn hat for
Gardner. Gainer set himself for his
effort, and slashed a line drive be
tween short and third, which came to
Wheat on the second hound. The lat
ter, playing in deep loft, whipped the
ball toward the plate with every atom
of his strength, bill McNally had
sprinted with the crack of the bat
and ball, and slid home with the win
ning run before Catcher Miller could i
clutch the living sphere
As a result of dinner's hit. the ljos
ioii team bl't for Brooklyn to-night
with two of the necessary four vic
tories to their credit, and will renew ;
the struggle to-morrow at Rbhets j
Field. Almost simultaneously the j
Brooklyn players departed for their |
home grounds, confident that their
fortunes will change once they are j
back upon familiar Ileitis, and bearing j
with them the admiration of every j
spectator who witnessed their desperate
battle against what is conceded to be
i,lie of tin gralest baseball machine:* !
of modern times
i:sT\m.?su m;\\ mkciix i>
ion woin.irs ;m.\>
I ti-ook ly i>. in In rob "i i ??
i(ii i 11 <!. . ; rr i <1 1 lot- -. s ?
11i- ??tilt I 'S r OT !>'? I
i ' \ *" i i i ' ? .i ?? :
? ly, : ''d lit n o 11?c ? ? i>?
iCoTJlinueu on Koui l)i I'aire.)
Raid Demoralizes
N.Y. Stock Market
Both Standard and War Issues
Break Badly on Enormous
Liquidation.
VKW YCmI<. October 9.?Tlio Mock
market was demoralize') at to-dav's
opening. standard issues. as well ;,s
war stocks, breaking f,, 10 and even
outset on enormous
Uiu dation. The break was attribute]
o the German submarine activities
and their possible
The fore,,imk, feat,,,-.. was Unit, d
.?t.ite.n Steel, on an offering of .10,000
'! lo ?''?presenting a
oss of slightly mora than 7 points.
I In. Mercantile Marine issues, coni
inon and preferred, wer. lower by 7 1-2
J- points. Distinctive munitions
yielded :: I., S points.
After the most exciting half hour
seen j), tin- stock market since u,e
Panic of 1907. the , Id. of liquidation
?as sferntned by heavy volume of buy
ing orders reported in have been sent
to the market by important banking
interests.
Anions the factors thai helped to
readjust prices was the reasoning of
some traders that a more tense inter
rational situation would be likely to
redound to the greater advantage of
war stocks.
Trading during the- balance of the
morning continuetf extremely active
and uncertain, the enormous dealings
being accompanied by confusing i,?|.
lie?! ancj declines.
During the noon hour. business
slackened materially, but the under
current again became Irregular with
renewed heaviness in leading stocks.
I OTTO \ HHIMKS Kit O >|
F.IC.IIT TO TWKI.VK POINTS
NKW YOUK, October The Cotton
Market to-day broke <j to 12 points
from Saturdays .lose |\:ir of
Acuities in making cotton exports due
to the presence Of German submarines
was responsible, Later prices fell to
net looses of 23 to 19 points with
March selling :it i?>s. *r very nearly
$2.60 a bale under ?)!'? closing price of
Saturday. Trade interests were active
buyers .,n the decline, leading to
rallies of sev rnl points, shortlv after
Die opening, but the ton- was nervous
and unsettled
Liverpool was firm and higher, as it
was feu that shipments from this side
?ould naturally cause an appreciation
in the value of the present supplv
abroad.
O.M-J or S It \ It IMCST M.l MI'S
Ol " SUA SO.V VT \K\V Oltl.K \ XS
O RLE A VS. October 9. ? Kx
cited selling greeted the news of sub
marine activity In American waters on
the- opening of the Cotton .Market to
day. and prices slumped to 65 points
before the first call was over. This
was a drop of about *2.25 to J3.25 a
bale, out of th< sharpest slumps of
this season.
Much of the selling was from hold
ers of 1 onr contracts, who feared ton
sequences .if the submarine activity
on exports of cotton. Prominent bull
ish traders were heavy buyers at the
decline, checking the downward move
ment. Prices reacted to within 1ft to
1C points of last week's close
SUPREME COURT OPENS
A?nncliite .liinlleen Kriinilrl* Clarke
I'llrt leipn te In Delibera t Ions
for PI ml Time.
W'ASIIlVfJTOV. October H?With 712
cases on its docket, the Supreme Court
to-day began its 1916-1917 term. As
social.* Justices Itrandeis and i"*lnrke
participating in the deliberations for
the first time The judicial oath was
administered to Justice Clarke to-day.
Important antitrust proseeutions to
come before the eourt during, the
present term include suits again-! the
International Harvester and United
States Steel Corporations, the United
Shoe Machinery Company. .Motion-;
Picture Patents Company. I'astman
Kodak Company and the Heading and
Lehigh Railroad interests.
Other cases to be heard test the
validity of the r> per cent rebate clause
of the Underwood tariff act. the i
migratory bird a. t. and numerous
State rate laws.
FAVOR SALE OF ISLANDS
.Meelltig hi >>|. TImiiiiiis \t,ended
Clilellt liy \\ orliliigntcn?Voles
I'niuiliiiotiM Approval.
ST. THOMAS. D. W. L, October 9 ?
The sale of the Danish West Indies
by Denmark to the United States was I
unanimously favored by acclamation
.it a meeting held here vesterdav at
tended chiefly by workingmcn?labor- ;
ers and artisans.
This course was favored rather than
? lie institution of reform under the
existing regime. the transfer being
held to he the only means of remedy- j
ing existing unsatisfactory conditions
on the island. A memorial to that
effect was handed the delegates who |
are to go to Copenhagen to pr?*sent the ?
views of the islanders.
AUTO BANDIT*S GET $3,000
ilnlil-1 p I'.iulii Kesliuirn ins In Northern
llfiiiimoild. IihI.. nml |-"lee \rro?K
Oie l.lne Into IlilnnU.
11A MMOVI?. IVIOctobei ji,?Six
r toinoliilc ha ml its h< Id-up eight res -
??;i nis in Northern Hammond early
?'a? a lid made ! Ii li,' eseaoc with
' "t SS.Otio in c:;sh .\t each * slop,
r.-msi!iic-l in the machine, while]
?i.,. three entered the restaurants
11' a nourish of revolvers, ctnp* .
h : eg sicrs The robbers j
... o-f I.> I? *? e 'nto Illinois. |
HIITS SING SING
??? ? ?\ .rite., \ not,need
-? .... s?,*i -rhtleftilriii
I fl T.
'? 'I ,\. V. i ?ct .>|i, r !i. Thomas
' t,..|-v'v resicua t ion ;is uarden
f Sin;.- Sing Prison was announced
y .lain:-.*. M Carter. Stale Superinten
dent. of Pri.sons, hero lo-duy.
BLAZE OF SUNSHINE
| GREETSSMFAIR
Eleventh Exhibition of Virginia's
Resources Opens Under Bril
' liant Auspices.
attendance shows increase
President Harrison and General
Manager Saunders Pleased
With First Day.
I nder propitious weather 'ircum
t.ux p.. with all signs pointing to
^ a I.irgn gathering <?f visiters to wit
nr>sv what 'lie State has done anrl is
, 'loins in agriculture and stock rais
ing. and to learn with wha a deter
. mined grasp tlie women arc taking of'
the affairs or iionio and farm, the j
eleventh annual .State Fair opened its!
turnstiles yesterday morning at Ol
o i lock, and before midday had re- '
more paid admissions than dur
ing the twelve hours of the correspond. '
ing day last year. Statements to this
??rfeet Wf-re made by \V. C. .Saunders,
general manager, and by Kalrfax Har
rison. president of the association.
1,01,1 'Xpressed themselves as being
?ell pleased with tlx- outlook, and both
were optimistic in their prophecy that
!'" f:,ir thlf! would, in the quality, i
if not in the quantity, of its exhibits.'
morp successful than any during ;
the preceding ten years
There is a falling oft i? the num
ber of exhibits, part icularlv in live
Mock, which is said to be due to the!
fact that farmers and stock raiserw !
j Jiavc not quite recovered their equl- I
libriuni since the foot-and-mouth din-!
ease threatened to devastate the State !
However. It was generally agreed that :
the quality of the exhibits more than
counterbalanced the reduction in num
I
I'IIF.SII>|;.\T IIA It It IS (| \ JS
i:.uti.v o\ liiiotM)
, President Harrison, who was early
| upon the grounds and who. with sev
.eral directors, occupied a box in the
grand stand in the afternoon, stated
that the cattle exhibit was a credit to
j the State, and that it was representa
tivo of sill sections
"The farm products." he stated, "are
interesting and are representative ot
the hundred counties which form Vir
ginia, and are tlie outstanding and
I most interesting feature of the fair.
There is a very good showing of corn,"
he continued. "There arc fifty ex
j liibits from the whole State. The ne
groes. whose displayts have been co
ordinatcd by the Hampton Normal m
ftitute. have 100 exhibits, showing
with what zeal and determination they
are lending themselves to agricultural
purs-tilts. |f every white farmer would
?mow ihe ,-ame interest in agriculture ?'
it would redound (o the very material
j benefit of the Stnt*
"Some of the horses arc of the verv
particularly the exhibits of
j Me.-srs. Okie and Ciroome, of inv own
j county. I'auquler. who. between them
j have eleven animals here.
There is every prospect of a large
attendance, and up to noon to-day we
i have taken in more money than we did
durinir Hie whole of the corresponding
, day ..f last year. We have even rca
? son to be satisiied."
mavai.ku saf.viiKits is
i:<|( At.l.Y OI'TI 1 STIC
ceneral .Manager Saunders was
| equally as optimistic. The Adminis
i trative Puilding is ill led with exhibits,
j ?ang...g from the home-grown weed
to automobiles manufactured in IJirh
mon.l. So numerous were the women's
exhibits that a separate building had
; to he provided to house them. On or...
Mde of this building is set the fanev
needlework: on the other cookies.
[Jellies and preserves and everything
| good which a housewife can coax from
| a pot on a hot stove, and ranged
i through the cmter aisle is ;i larsre
j floral exhibit.
j ''f particular Interest, as President
Harrison pointed out. is the exhibit of
(the Hampton Normal Institute, housed
j in a tent because of lack of room else- [
where. Here one sees household ar
ticles and implements made by the!
hands of the students of the institute.
| and products grown by the graduates I
, and others in all parts of the Sr.te.
Negro schools have also their varied
displays in testimony of the ability
of the negro to eke out a living unaided
and to put the white man on b's met.
He.
TOII\r?|> \M, It A 11.HO \
K V I" HITS ATTIIAf'T A TTI-INTIO V
I:ailrond exhibits of products grown j
| within vicinity <?f their lines are ,.f
prime importance and interest. The
! Southern, which traverses the corn
'"?It and the thin line of cotton grow
ing in \ irginia and passes through j
? many a field of golden wheat and ye|- ?
lowing corn, has a profusion of farm
products east from n cornucopia.
In the southern end of the Admin
istrative Muilding the American To
bacco Company has placed on display
negroes stripping the leaf from the
stein, singing Southern medleys as they j
work. 11 ere the visitors lingered, ear- j
ried away by the harmony of the!
negroes who Joyed in their labor.
\ esterday being the opening day. it ?
was not expected that n large throng !
would press against the stiles, though j
:h" earlier arrivals besieged the keep- !
? is as early as 7 o'clock. Vet the paid !
admissions are said to have outnum- j
b< r< ?f those of the correspond ing" day i
I: st year when Ihe noon hour w?s j
struck, it was noticeable that there |
were fewer deadheads, and another in*
(lici t ion of the business administra
tion with which the fair is being con
ducted this year is iu the fact that
ollicers anil directors are paying for
Ih-ir boxes. Wlujt the crowd seemed
|t<> hick iu numbers, as compared with
I preceding year*. lies in the fact that,
fewer pass?.? are being ' issued and
<Continued on T"TfTl7~Page~j
J.' ;&[ ?? i'i'l-vy'. ? ' -?'f. Mi jV-V?'*/a ;' J
ONLY ONE U-BOAT
IN RAID ON COAST!
I
Admiral Gleaves Doubts State- j
mcnt of Survivors That Sev
eral Were Engaged.
NO NEW VICTIMS ON MONDAY
Known List Remains at Six,
Though Reports of Other
Losses Arc Persistent.
NJ.\\|i?|;r j. I October 9.?The
w holes.-,!*. raid ol, foreign shipping)
of lightship on s.in-1
d.i\ w.,s r|,f work of one submarine. !
according to icports of American naval !
oflic ? r >. itojir-Admiral Albert G lea vex '
commanding the torpedo-boat-destrove,
."ne^v *li" Sm'h ?"?nrliably :
t"'y|w ork yesterday s-ii?i
"??? repirt. of a,, Sitl
ofJIc ers agreed tl,at. to the lMwt of ,, , 1
^ervatio,,. wnc ra|(Je|. onIy ws^ ^ j
' ' hJ"s Presumably w as the I
o'n Saturd ~i ^ "l !
Admiral r;|ciivcs Kai|| hc
easily undo,,,and the positive ?t:.t? !
lhrht M t':lr,,ni" of thc N'antucket '
JiJfJ . ?r ?"?',,lors <>r the torpr
deed ve>,. l- ihat more than one sub.
marine was , oncernod. The I'-bo:,,. |?,
h*. I-' V 'S ' "r:"' fast. and appeared to
lHC" ?>"ndled eleverlv. i, wai ,
easy, he pointed out. for her to dl?.
appear o? one side of a ship and p.n?
Do, , 'P u,l1CX|>cc,*rt?y "t another
Doubtless, he believed she had -ufa. i
lergod ami reappeared often enough;
to mislead any but a keen professional
that if" U,C ""Predion i
that more than *?,e sea terror was
operatin e.
kkqi i:st> stka >nci|s
TO WAIT I'll Ml It Tl ll.\ i
This opinion would seem to he borne!
out b> the statements of many of the
leftigres that the submarine had more j
business on hand than she could tal;*
care of and was obliged to'
equest one s,earner to wait he,- turn j
"hil* another was being put out 0. I
commission.
l^ieiitenant-i 'ommander Miller, of -he
destroyer Krlcsson. who witnessed the
destruction of the Stephano. said he !
was positive that only one submarine
"as in the vicinity at the time. !
To-day the raiding had ceased?at
least, for the moment.
The known list of the victims of ,|,o :
L - boat s Sunday exploits remains at :
six. notwithstanding reports from tho
Nantucket lightship that tine- oU.e- .
ships, the Identity of which could not1
b- learned, were sent to the bottom, j
Ihere aIso ?.as ? p<sr8lstcM, nimor
without verification, that a British!
cruiser, one of th? allied patrol ilee, .
sent to the submarine zone, had been
attached |
Ion more refugees were landed here'
to-night by the Melville, tender of the i
destroyer llotilla which picked up ten
Chinese members of the crew of tho I
Mrathdene. They were sent to the |
training station to he held until im
migratIon inspectors can pass on their
cases, after which they prohablv will !
be transferred to .Vew York.
iii:ntiio) i:us *\vi:ki? w \ti:iis
IN SKA IHir KOII HISSIM.' CltKW i
Destroyers swept the waters on a
wide area to-day in a vain search Tor !
the crew of the steamer Klngstonlan, I
who were seen by members of tho
steamer Strathdene to take to their I
boats before their vessel was sunk 1
Hcar-Admiral Knight was of the '
'?Pinion that the Klngstonian's crew
Had been pi. k. rl ?? hy an eostbound I
.steamer, which did not care to dlvul~e I
her position to lurking submarines hy I
reporting the fact by wireless. j
Notwithstanding ,he lull |n s,,?j i
marine activities to-day. shipping men j
were by no means reassured. If 0',ly !
one raider were concerned, she might !
I'O waiting only to replenish her sun
plies. they believed.
1 his gave rise to a renewal of re
ports that elaborate methods of sup
plying foreign submarines from Amer
ican bases had bee,, perfected.
In order to dispose as f;ir as possible
of claims of this sort as applied to *
the Xarragansett May district. William 1
H. Ualsh. deputy collector of customs !
made a careful investigation to-day ic 1
learn if any merchant boat or yacht
had cleared from Newport on Saturday 1
or Sunday which might have carried '
-upplies. The investigation, it is un- '
? lerstood. was made on orders from'
-Washington. Mr. Walsh found no in- j
dicatlon that any such supply ,,oal |
had cloarcil. ,
M? I'ltlOM li NOW I.KIKii:
Ol- M I.UAHIMVS IVl'li.vrioXsi j
Another report persisting in shippi,,* :
circles was that the call of Captain
Hans Ko.se, of the L'-5:5. upon American !
naval officers here was to give an in-1
i mat ion that rescue ships might bo !
needed in the vicinity soon, as well as I
to exchange formal visits of courtesv '
Shippers pointed to t|?. promptness '
with which seventeen licet destroyers!
had been rushed at full speed to .Van-I
tucket lightship within a few minutes I
after the reports came of the sinking
of the first submarine victim, the Brit
ish freighter Westpoint. lieat-Admiral
< "leaves, commander of the torpedo flo
tilla. disclaimed in a statement to
night absolutely any prior knowledge
of the intentions of the Herman U-boat.
Admiral Cleaves received to-day from
various sources, official and otherwise
commendation for the rescue work of
the various vessels under his command.
It was reported by members of the
crew of the steamer Strathdcno that
the submarine which sank her had
tilled her fuel tanks with oil from tho
Norwegian tnnk steamer Christian
Knudsen before the latter was sent to
the bottom. Other refugees have de
clared that they saw a Cerman supply
ship hovering in tho vicinity of the
raid on .Sunday.
Although fuel tanks may have been
replenished from the Norwegian vos
sel, naval officers expressed the opin?
(Continued on Second P?g6.)
& ' < J r.J?;? K ..' 1 g?l '?*V .s* ... 'I-?!i
German Submarine^Battleship at Newport
Tlio I'with colors It.villi;, anchored in Newport harbor just prior to i
departure for spcctncular raid off North Atlantic Coast.
Gerard Comes to Warn \
President of Danger
of War With Germany
Preparing to Resume Sub
marine Warfare More
Ruthlessly Than Was
Lusitania Sinking.
Ily III-:It II(CUT IIA V.\ It I) MMII'i :.
Sltfclnl Stall' I'orrt-Mpiiiidcn t \cw \ tirk I
World. j
i?"**?!?vi"iJ4rl?t. ll'ltS, by the Press Pub-I
I is hi nt; Company. The New York !
World?special wifeless (llHpfttrli.it
OX P.OAIM> STt-iAMSlIII* Kit El >10111 K. j
VIII. i via Siasconset. Mass.), October j
!?. ? li can bo stateil positively tli.it j
Ambassador Gerard, who Is 011 hoard !
the Krederik VIII.. arriving In New
York on Tuesday, carries no message
from (Sermaiiy to I'resldent Wilson re
questing his good ofliees to make peace.
Such reports are wholly false, and
are probably the outgrowth of a stock-!
jobbing plot having its origin in Cop- |
enhagen, and being imposed upon the ,
United Stales. The ambassador re
sents, the. effort lo use the President i
and himself, especially as his visit Is!
fraught with such seriousness that a j
misconstruction may add lo the grar-'
It.v of an already delicate situation.
Mr. Gerard Is making his first visli '
to America in three years to report tji i
President Wilson in person on a mat-j
ler vastly more important to America
than the subject of pence, important
as that is. lie comes to describe tho
heavy black cloud hanging over Ger
man-Americ.in relations in the form of
the submarine menace, which is grow
ing day by day, and which, even the
most friendly German statesmen agree,
will break open after election unless
the unexpected occurs and peace in
tervenes.
Mr. C.erard will report that ilermauy
Is nurturing no false hopes or de
lusions nil tills point. She does not
believe peace is a likelihood or will
be a probability for a long lime, so
she is concerning herself with means
of war, ignoring the plans for pca?-e.
Therefore, it is proper to say the dip
lomat's visit has to do more with the
war and the possibility of our becom
ing involved than it has to deal with
peace through our agency.
It is, of course, trite that the am
bassador has received a communication
from the Kaiser and the members of I
the German government on the sub
ject of endins the. war. but these are
all indefinite and formulated in plans
lacking au> immediacy.
ni-:i.im:it \ti: i'ui-:imh.\ti?.\*
TO It KM I MK WAItl-'Altl-:
tin the idlter hand I am able to stale,
the real purpose of the ambassador's
Journey i- t" present lo the adminis
tration in concrete form what intelli
gent visitors to Germany recently have
been impressed by?tho stire and rapid
weakening <>!" German opposition to a
"ruecksicstslose" IT-boat campaign, and
the deliberate preparations being niaiU
to resume the practices objected t?> by
America hi the cases of the Lusitania.
Arabic and Sussex, to mention only
Ihrec of the most prominent instances.
In the a mhassador's opinion. it
would bo doing Germany a great in
justice to say she is ready to sue for
peai e. as such thoughts are far from
tin- German mind. Sin- is ready, even
anxious for "honorable peace," but her
ideas on that point are so far removed
from those of the allies that it is
proper to conclude she is nol permit
ling peace thoughts to enter her pres
ent calculations.
"I Hi rcha It en" i* her nioil ?, and in
cluded in the word is her intention of
employing the most ruthless forms of
warfare, whih she juilstilies on the
ground that her very existence as a.
nation is threatened.
I-'or two months I have been in close
touch with the situation in Germany,
and was fortunate enough to have
opened to me. in many eases, the same
sources of information on which Mr.
Gerard is depending for the reports h?.
is making, and to nu .isc of which he
does not object .Van.rally his posi
tion Is such that he c.iunot talk, but
tho menace in our relations with Ger
many Is to-day : o obvl< u> that Its ex.
istence requires no specific admission
or confirmation from him.
In the face of opinion and sentiment
that no possible weapon should be left
unused, the government is preparing
to recedo from the position assumed in
reply to the Sussex note.
It Is no violation of confidence to
.nay that when tho report of tho Chan
cellor'n recont speech (that any Oer
' (Continued on Second Page.)
Submarines Comply
With Rules of Warfare
\??nriiv park. v. .i., ociuiicr n.
?St'crrtnry Oinilrl*. in 11 iirrllm
Innrj- report to I'rcHltl en I \\ (Inoii
to-day, Ktild thai ndvicm s i fur rr
rrlvfd Indicated tlint nil the rules
of international warfare linil lieen
i'ii ii ? |i11eil with hy the tiermuii Ntih
marlnm operaI Iiikt otf I lie ,\nr
KiiKlnnil I'OtiNt.
ROUMANIANS HETREflT;
TEUTONS WIN TQERZBURG
Transylvania!! Town Fifteen Miles
Southwest of Kroiistiitlt Recap
tured, According to Berlin.
OCCUPY AN ISLAND IN DANUBE
Serbians Cross Cnrnu ltivei* and Take
Skochivir?Hard l^l(*litiit^ West of
Lutsk?Violent. Bombardments in
Soinmc Kc^ioii of France.
LoXDoN. October ?On tin; battlo
fronts in Kurope, TriinsylvDiliii and
Macedonia continue for the moment,
the centers of greatest Interest. Ac
cording to Merlin, the llotimanians in
Transylvania are retreating along the
whole line. The Teutonic allies have
recaptured tile town of Tocrzbnrg, lif
ieen miles southwest of Kronstadt. and
w itiiin seven miles of tin- Kouninnian
border. in the Dunn ho, 'north of Sis
tova. tho Ccrmans have occupied an
is-la in), taking six guit> and making
prisoners of ilio Roumanian troops
t here.
Serhians in considerable force have
crossed tho Cerna lltver. in Serbia, antf
captured th<! town of Skochivir. sontli
east of Monastir. and also have occu
pied positions along tiio north bank of
the river.
Considerable' hard fighting itas again
taken place in the region west of Lutsk,
and further south iti Galicia, hilt tlte
results are somewhat beclouded by
reason of tho contradictory reports of
tiie I'etrograd ;i 11 ? I Merlin War Oflloa
statements. I'etrograd says the Rus
sians at some points in Volhynia suc
ceodeil in enteritis; Austro-tJerman po
sitions east of Vladimir- Volynski, but
Merlin reports that these attacks failed
with sanguinary losses to the Russians.
N'ear llr/.ezany. southeast of Romberg,
in Calicia, Dotli I'etrograd and Merlin
record repulses of attack. In the Car
pathlans the Germans have made ait
advance at Mabaludowa.
Violent recriprocal bonihardments arc
in progress in tiie Somine region of
France. Infantry attacks also have
taken place, hut no important gains
for either side' have been chronicled.
Carrying- '.'.000 Serbian and French
soldiers, tiie aux ilia ry cruiser Gallia
has been stink in the Mediterranean
with a loss of MS men.
sF.it iiia vs titoss ti:it\\
ltt\l-:it AT TWtt POINTS
ATIIKNS, October 9 (via London).??
Serbian troops in considerable foreo
have crossed the Cerna River at two
points, and are advancing rapidly to
the northward. They have captured
the viilnge of Skodii\ ir. taking 100
Mulgarians prisoner
?II sx; \\ \ \ II Ittlt .11A MAN
i'iiitt lis itirrnti: in noniti u.i v
SOFIA, Octolicr s i v ia London, tic
tolier 9).?On lhe section of the Mace
donian front south of Momistir, tho
Serhians have abandoned theij- at
tempts to advance on accinmt of their
defeat on Friday, tlo Wat ??IIi. ?? an
noun I ti?-du>
tin the Struma front the Hritish aru
using armored motor cars. In Doh
rudja, Russian and Roumanian forces
arc said lo have retired.
IMSSI.WS K.VI'KIl TKI TIIMt
I.INKS t.\ VOLHYNIA
1'1ST HOOK AD, October 9 (via Lon
don).?Thci great battle, in Volhynia,
east of Vladimir-Volynski, ia continu
ing, tho War Ofllcc announced to-day,
and the Russians have succecdcd at
si\mo placos In entering tho Teutonic
lines. The positions taken have been
consolidated, the stutcment adds.
?? V ?' ?
KALTIMORK BY HOAT.
York River Line new eicnniern. $:.?0 on*
way; It.50 round trip.
V ? ' i
;V?,
WILSON WILL HOLD
KAISER TO PLEDGE
IN U-BOAT WARFARE
To Confer With Lansing
To-Dav Concerning Raids
Off American Coast.
ATTACKS FRAUGHT WITH
GRAVE POSSIBILITIES
Position of American Govern
ment Made Clear in Statement
Given Out by President.
lUOKXSTOIll'l AT M)V<; Itlt.WCli
llo Is Informed That I'nileil States
Will Art rinnly if It*--*
Arc Infringed.
i:i:\\ch. v .. t.tc-.obr:- r?.
Secretary I-anshiu ? was announced
to-niuht. w ill i-uitw i- to-morrow for
:? < ('iilf retire \? ? 'resident Wilson
"?o;i.nInli lie: ii:. I>11121 rlno raids oft
Hi.- American ... ,\| P. I.uiistng l?
ex|n?cic?l lo tV'1.1.1 overnight at the
I "i csldeiit's Mimm.- residence.
I'll.- : i ii 11 <. 1111* 111 c-;. i tlint the .Secre
tary of State wijtii- confer with the
f i esiilcnt conveyed the impression
gained hero earlie in i lio day thai
the A mcrican government consldercil
the attacks on vessels olT the Ameri
can coast by u Cerium. submarine a >
fraught with grave possibilities. At
the same time, it was made clear that
there is nothing in Mho reports so far
received to show that international law
?r the earlier promises of Germany
have been violated. Concern over the
situation centered chiefly about the '
possibility of what might happen it
the submarine attacks,are continued.
position or <;ovrcuNMi-:\T
>1A L)K CI.ISA It BV WILSON
The position of the American gov
ernment and its determination to make
i full investigation before acting was
made clear in the following statement
??riven 6ut by the President:
"The government will, of course, first
inform itself as to all the facts that
there may be no doubt or mistake as
far as they are concerned.
"The country may rest assured that
the German government will be held
to the conipleto fulllllment of its prom
ises to the government of tho United
.States. 1 have no right now to ques
tlbn its willingness to fulfill them."
- Count von ^ernst'orfT, the GerritaW "
ambassador, who came hero to-day to
give tho Presldont tt personal lotter
from the German Rmperor on Polish
relief, discussed with President Wilson
tho new activities of German subma
rines. It was understood that the
President mado ft clear that, while the
American government had no intention
of interfering with tho legitimate
activities of submarines, It would in*
sist on the strict observance of tli?
pledges given previously by tho Gov*
man government.
A MIIASSADOIl WITHOUT
OKKICIAI. INFORMATION
The ambassador, while expressing
an entire lack of olllclal information
from Ids government on the new sub.
marino attacks, said that Germany had
promised to conduct her submarine
warfaro In accordance with tho rules
of cruiser warfare.
The ambassador remained with the
President only fifteen minutes, and
was smiling when he left, llo declared
ho was as much surprised as anybody
when tho news of the sinking of tho
first British ship readied him.
It is understood that the talk be*
tween the President and the ambas
sador was ontiroly friendly, hut that
the President Informed the ambassador
of his determination to act firmly if
tho rtghts of the United States are in
fringed.
Tho President had seriously consid
ered going to Brooklyn to-morrow to
attend the third world soros baseball
game, but decided to remain horo and
keep in touch with tho submarine sit
uation.
Before seeing Secretary Lansing th<J
President will confer with Jules Jus
sera ml. the French ambassador, who is
coming to Shadow Lawn to bring 4
personal letter from President Poln
.?are, of France, to President Wilson
on Polish relief.
MAY l.AV KXTIJJiTE VIEW
II10roil 13 THE I'ltKSI HUNT
It is considered probable that during
the conference tho French ambassador
may lay before the President the view
of the entente governments that Ger
man submarines should not be allowed
to coino Into American ports. This
point probably will be taken up by tho
President with Secretary Lansing to
morrow night.
During the day the executive ofliccs
here were in communication with Sec
retary Daniels, and received prelimi
nary reports assembled by tho, Navy
Department 011 tho aubmarino activi
ties oft' the American coast.
The general trend of these roporta
was to the effect that, so far as had
been determined, the rules of interna
tional law had been complied with by
Germany. It was mado clear, however,
that these reports were of a prelimi
nary character, and were not conclu
sive. Secretary Daniels was instructed
to keep the President fully informed
of all developments.
Count von l.ernstorff said he planned
to return to Washington to-night or
lo-morrow, going by way of Now York,
It was stated by officials here that tho
subject of peace was not mentioned
at his conference with tho President.
MAXV POSSIIIII.ITI KS
OK COMPLICATIONS
WASHINGTON, October 9.?So much
depends upon President Wilson's de
cision regarding the German subma
rine operations in the Western At
lantic, and there are so many possi
bilities of complications if th" U-boat
campaign proceeds, that officials her*
1'
1
